
• • • Bye-bye, Tony -Page 5 

VOL. XIV, NO. 129 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, APRIL 29, 1980 
Speech/Drama shifts focus 
Editor's Note: This is the first part ofa two-part series examining the development ofthe Speech and Drama department into the Communica­tions and Theatre department. Today 's article d;rcusses the reasons behind the change in c.trriculum and faculty, atzd the effect it will have on other Liberal Arts departments. Tomorrow's story will detail some of the tensions these changes have created for stu­dents, faculty and administrators. The stories have -been researched and written by Staff Reporters Mike Shields and Sal Granata and Saint Mary 's Executi11e Editor !vfargie Brasszl. 
When they return in the fall, Notre DameI Saint Mary's speech and drama majors will face major changes in every aspect of their curric­ulum: the department will have a new focus, nearly half the faculty will be replaced, and the department will have a new name-Theatre and Communications. 
Mitchell Lifton, chairman of the department during its transition from Speech and Drama to Communications and Theatre, said the depart­ment changed its format in order to broaden its approach to communications education. "The field of Speech has changed in the traditional sense," he said. "It is now just one element in the field of communications. The others are media, interpersonal communications, small group seminars, etc. The majority of students majoring in Speech and Drama were interested in communications.'' 
Speech is a relatively small part of communi­cations, Lifton added. He emphasized the· shift from Speech as a concentraton in elocution and 
(continued on page 3] 

Ends isolation 
Carter visits commandos 
SAN ANTONIO, Texas (AP)­rescue atrempt, which left eight replied, ''His departure did not President Carter, breaking the American servicemen dead in have any adverse effect on the self-imposed isolation that has the Iranian desert and the five rescue of American hostages, kept him in Washington or others injured. nor will it in the future.'' Camp David for months, travel­With the president as Air
The president referred to
ed to Texas yesterday and Force One lifted off in fog and
Vance as "a fine and dedicated 
donned a surgical mask and drizzle were Defense Secretary
man who has served me and the
gown to visit men injured in last Harold Brown, House Majority
nation well." Asked whether
week's ill-fated attempt to res­Leader Jim Wright, D-Texas, cue the American hostages in the resignation would hurt and Carter's congressio~al 
Iran. negotiations with Iran, Carter liaison, Frank Moore. "Our nation owes them a great debt of appreciatitJp, grat­
itude, respect and admiration," ' 'New low in moraldepravity ' ' Carter said after seeing the five injured men. "I am over­whelmed with emotion when I 
Iranians display remains ofrescue attempt
look ?.t them and speak to 

them. by The AssociatedPress moved into the embassy, the could quickly be found.'' He claimed 18 planes, 20 hostages were being moved The official Iraqi news agen­helicopters aHd 3,000 men
The president was greeted by 

cheering and applauding out, transferred to cities such as cy and Iraqi diplomats abroad were mvolved in the mission.
See related story on page 2 
crowds as he visited first Tabriz and Qom, Tehran Radio denied a Tehran Radio reportMaps, machine guns and the A Tehran Radio broadcast
Willford Hall, a medical facility said. There were hints Iran claiming Iraqi President Sad­
bodies of eight U.S. service­might demand a payoff for quoted the Iraniam militants as
at Lackland Air Force . Base dam Hussein was killed in a 
men killed in the unsuccessful return of the bodies. coup and his socialist govern· saying Sunday that an unspeci­where the deposed Shah of Iran 
attempt to rescue the American fied number of hostages had
was hospitalized last year, and Iranian President Abolhas­ment overthrown. 
hostages were displayed yes­san Bani-Sadr:, in an interview Khalkhali told reporters at arrived in Tabriz, the capital of then the Brooke Army Medical 
Center. terday at the U.S. Embassy in with French radio, said that io the .embassy that a giant map Azerbaijan Province in north­Carte-r walked grim-faced Tehran. A leading Iranian light of the U.S. rescue attempt taken from one of the aban­ern Iran. It did not say when judge said at least 29 Ameri­early Friday, "a solution with doned U.S. aircraft showed the they left Tehran. The captors
'past th~ crowds. At Brooke, he wore a cans died in the abortive the Americans is almost im­commandos planned to strike said other hostages, in their surgical miSSIOn. possible." But he also said at 14 sites in Tehran, including 176th day of capnvity Sunday, mask and President Carter, in a formal that ''if the Americans guaran­the home of Ayatollah Ruhol­were to be sent to Qom, Iran's white report to Congress released tee not to interfere in our lam Khomeini, the Iranian religious capital, about 100 
Sunday, reiterated that only internal affairs, a solution leader. miles south of Tehran.
gown as he eight bodies were left behindtalked to in the Iranian desert. "No

the four 

men being United States armed forces 
$5jump proposed 

remain in Iran," he added.
treated for With the plastic bags con­burns suf­

fered taining the bodies lying on the 
Clubs to betzefitfrom fee increase 
when two ground inside the embassy Jimmy Carter aircraft compound, Ayatollah Sadegh by Louis Breaux will benefit those clubs who diction of McDonnell only 50
Khalkhali told reporters that
c0llided were unable to receive funds applied for funds in 1979. Of and exploded on a remote the remains of nine servicemen A proposed increase of $5 in this year and it will increase the that 50 about half received any
had been recovered and at the activity fee for next year
Iranian· airfield after the rescue spending power of the Student money at all and only ont"
least 20 more commandos died, could provide the necessary Government and the Student
mission had been aborted. received the amount requested.
"but their bodies are powder stimulus fqr increased social
Col. Basil Pruitt, commander Union. The final decision on the of the hospital's burn unit, said now." activities qn c:a_mpus. The ''Notre Dame probably has allotment of funds will be it was not a lighthearted visit Broadcasters by Tehran Rad­proposalwould raisethe feefrom one of the lowest activity fees in decided by the Board of Trus­
but a friendly one. He said io claimed nine Americans $20 to $25, giving an addiuonal the country," McDonnell said. tees, but the proposed planwere killed. There was no $34,000 to spread to various ''The only one lower is in
Carter shook hands with two of calls for the organization of. a 
expla~ation fo~ the display of clubs and organizations on
the men but could not with the Denver, which operates on a subcommittee that will appro­
only eight bodies. · campus.
other two because they were different system and has no priate 20 percent of the total
White House press secretary ''This year we did not have activities fee."
burned too badly. budget or about $34,000. Immediately after the visit, Jody Powell, asked about the enough money to go around," The fee for last year was $17 The obligations of the sub­
reports of a ninth body, said, Jim /McDonnell, directdr of
Carter boarded a return flight and had not been raised in a committee will include the Aca­
"I don't know anything about student activities ~said. "The number of years. Due to the
to Washington. demic Commission, the Cul­
The president left Andrews that.'' When informed that the increase will make it easier for rising costs there were major tural Commission, the Volun­bodies had been displayed at improvements in many areas.''
Air Force Base late in the cutbacks in allocating funds to teer Services, ethnic and minor­
the embassy, Powell said, It is expected that the pro­
morning after accepting the student organizations and as a ity organizations, geographical
"Clearly that sort of behavior posal will be passed by the
resignation of his secretary of result the number of social dubs, non-varsity athletics, and 
constitutes a new low in moral Board of Trustees who had activities declined.
state, Cyrus R. Vance, who said other student-run clubs. 
he disagreed with the presi­depravity.'' already approved a $3 increase Of the 135 or more clubs and dent's decision to launch the . While the bodies were being last fall. The increased bud_get organiz~tions.. under the juris-







News in brief 


Tuesday, April 29, 1980 -page 2 

Studentsexpress views


Peds to meet, decidefuture 

·opinionsvaryonrescue attetnpt 
ofChrysler-Corp. today 

by Michael Mader didn't work out.'' The student has to happen," Cushing said.
WASHINGTON (AP) -The government board that could StaffReporter felt the rescue attempt was a "It shows the Iranians we'rehave a life or death say over the Chrysler Corp. will meet in good idea. "But it should senous,'' an anonymous stu­. ecret today to decide whether the automaker has qualified Reacting to the confusion have been done the day after dent said.

for S I.') billion in federal financial backing. It is highly likely resulting from the vague de­the embassy was taken,'' he ·'He (Carter) had to dothat the aid, in the form of federal guarantees of private tails offered about the recent added. something. The way theloans, will be approved. Chrysler contends the aid is needd rescue attempt in Iran, Notre Nanette Rees was not sur­European nations were putzingto kc-ep it from closing down. 

Dame students expressed dif­prisf'd at all and likened the around, it would take them six fering opinions about the res­attempt to the Bay of Pigs to nine months to sanction cue attempt and the subse­incident. "The first thing I Iran," Finn said. quent resignation of Secretary thought ofwas the Bay of Pigs. 
The resignation of Vance
Lowercosts cause another 
of State Cyrus R. Vance. Carter immediately admitted was met with a mutual reaction 

Students' first reactions hi.s failure, just like Kennedy of surpdse. was

"I really were varied. While several did," Rees said.
drop in bank 's prime rate 

surprised. I wonder more wen· surprised by the rescue "I was disappointed it didn't about Carter and his abili .y inNI·:W YORK (AP) ·The prime rate contiuued its descent from attempt, others claimed to work and I support the action Congress,'' 
an anonymous
1he 20 P('flTtll peak set earlier this month as Morgan have expected the move. Most itself,'' Mike Cushing said. 
spokesman said.
Guarantv Trust Co. of New York, the nation's fifth-largest 
students thought the plan was A third anonymous student hank, dropped its rate a full percentage point yesterday to 

"If upset
a good one, but still others first thought the rescue at­someone was I H 1/z llC'tlTn t. Morgan Guaranty declined to comment on its 

were scornful of it. tempt was good. "At least it enough to resign, the rescue mov(', but analysts said the unusually large jump was an 
''I was glad that they tried was better th:m waiting,'' the may not have been a good mdit at ion of 1he recent decline in banks' cost of gathering 
it, at least they did some­student said. "My second idea,'.' Cushing said, also ex­funds. 
pressmg surpnse.
thing,'' Terry Fino said. thoughts though, were if they A student who wished w would have gotten close, what "Ir would seem the logicalheld would happened the

remain anonymous an have to thing to do if he was against it 
opposing view. ''The whole hostages?'' 

(the rescue) so badly, but I attempt was ridiculous. We'd Thoughts on the hostages'

Internationaldrug smuggling 

think it was a cop-out to leave 
already been warned against welfare tended to be similar. now and leave someone
righttaking military action. I ''The effects on the hostages is else to clean up,'' Finn ob. 

couldn't believe Carter actually obvious. The hostages are safe
trial resumes in Fed. court 
served. 
tried it," the student said. because the Iranians have Respect for Vance since hisINDIANAPOLIS (AP)-Four men whn have been charged in A student whose father is a shown they won't kill them,'' resignation varied widely. '•Jconnertion with an alleged inrernatio11al drug smuggling ring diplomat ''was taken by sur­the diplomat's son said. 

have a lot more respect for the
known as The Company have either been murdered or are 
pnse and was unhappy that it "I think they (the hostages) 


guy. He wants people. to ~no~hiding, arcording to testimony in a Federal Court here. 

will be glad once they know he was upset, by restgnmg, 'Following special court sessions Sunday, the trial resumed 

there was an attempt," Finn

_The_OhsetY-er_ Cushing said.
rest('rday before Judge Cale J. Holder and a jury that had said. 
been sequestered for more than a week. 

Most of the students felt The son of the diplomat
Monday Night Staffers 

there are favorable results, . opposed Cushing's view. "He although the mission was a wasn't a very effective Secre­Night Editor: Ryan "South 
Reveal Summer Locations 

failure. ''At least it shows our tary anyway because he seems


Vance resignation saddens 

allies and the Iranians that the to have a limited and perhaps Berkmoes 
Bend Yipee!" Ver 

United States won't sit back political view of foreign Asst. Night Editors: Fast 
and wait forever. Something policy,'' the student said.
worldleaders, hurts dollar 
Eddie "L.A. Freeways" LONDON (AP)-The Soviet Union and Iran yesterday greeted 
Holden, Cindy "South news of the resignation of Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance 


OUR )
Sider'' Kliros 
Copy Editor: Lynne
as a sign of disunity in the U.S. government, European 

-~;1EP 'PE FOR: J~~: leaders were saddened and the dollar fell as the news 
"Maine" Daley reached world money markers. In Moscow, broadcasts 
Layout Staff Kathy '') ust 

MCAT•·.DAT •LSIT·&MIT 
Hanna, Indiana" Vick, Katie in the face'' by the Carter administration and said his 
lauded Van\:e as a realistic stareman who had been "slapped 
·'East Lansing'' Durkin 
88~ •8Rf PSYCH· QRE BID 
News Editor: John ''Flood 
City Johnstann'' McGrath 
resignation clearly was a result of provocation against Iran. 
PCAT•OCIT•VAT ·IAAT ·SAT
Editorial Layout: Dana 
"City of Champions" 
1MBI.H.III·ECFMG·FLEM•VQE
Michel 
NOB I, D • NPB 1• NLE "Keystone" Farrell 
Features Layout: Kate


Weather 
Flexible Program• & Ht 11'1 
Cloudy and rool through tomorrow. A 60 percent chance of 
Sports Layout: Mark ·~r 
Visit Any Center And See Fr.•r Youraelf 
rain during the day and a 40 percent chance at night. Highs 
wish I knew" Perry 
Why We Make The lllttererce 
toda\· in the mid to upper 40s. Lows at night in the low 40s. 
Sports Copy Editor: Beth llighs hHnorrow in the upper 40s to low )Os with a chance of 
"Ludlow Falls" Huffman, t.un. 
Mike "DC" Ortman 
M N
~~~ 
EOUCATIONAL CENTER
'
Typists: Kate ''Ludlow 
291-3150 
TEST PREPARATION

~---·----------------------1 
Falls" Huffman, Paula 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 
·'Windy City'' Shea, Mary 
Beth Budd 
Outside N.Y. State Only CAll TOLL FREE: 800·223-1782 
EMT: Kim ''A Booth In The 
Centers In· More Tian 80 Major US Cities
CamP-_us_------~ 
Puerto Rico, Toront 1, Canada &Lugano Switzerland
Back In The Corner In The 


Dark'· Convey 


J --:/_
"' ' ' '•'
Proofreader: Sal "Vicenza" ·~· .~0 p~1 LECTURE "generalization of metabolic energy in 

Granata par:tsiiK helr111nrhs,'' dr. ernest buediog, the joho's hopkins 
ND Day Editor: Lisa u ND GAl \'IN AlTO 
"Zion" Stanczak SMC Day Editor: Kate ·~ Hl pm CONCERT varsity band, in front of ADMIN BLDG. 
Huffman 
Photographer: Greg 
''Gateway to the West" & dnrnrll\ o'neill prof. of education for justice. CCE AUD. 
4. ~0 LFCTURF "pathways to justice," denis a. gouler, wm. 
Maurer 
Guest Appearances: Mary 




ATIMETODECIDE
"Meet Me in St. Louis" 
Leavitt, Ann "Chi-Town" 
(, pm ~1EF 11:-JG i.s.o. LAFORTUNE BASEMENT 
These few weeks are when Notre Dame students ~. prn MEETING nd/smc carter re.election campaing. 
Monaghan, Danny "Listen 
are making deciswns. LAFOHHJNE BALLROOM. 
to my Accent'' Tarullo, Neil 
A few samples:''Back to Springsteen 
1. What kind of summer job will I do? .~ pm INITIATION & MEETING alpha phi omega service 
Country" O'Brien 
2. 
What will be my major? frarc.-rnit} RMt07 O'SHAG 


3. Whom will I room with next year!~> 

4. 
What will I do after graduation~ ~. 10:.~0 pm MOVIE "bridge on the river kwai" ENGR. AUD. 


The Observer (USPS 598 920) is 
published Monday through FriClay 
For rh9se ·considering the priesthood, the 
except during exam and vacation
spons. bv graduate student union. $1. 
question is:·
periods. The Observer ls8ublished b¥ the students of Notre ame and 
Is this the rime when I should consider 

·..H pm CONCERT cheap trick. ACCtickets $8.50 & $7.50. 
Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions 
whether I want to become a priest?
may be purchased for $20 per year 
If this ts the decision you must make, then for a·
($1 0 per semester) by writing The
8 pm ~cONCERT nd jazz band. WASHINGTON HALL. 
Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
personal, confidential . Fr. Andre Leveille CSCsponsored by the music dept. 
Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana 

interview contact: Holy Cross Vocati~n Director 
46556. 
Box )41 liams; "soap bubbles," prof. brian smyth. sponsored by nd 
8:30 LECTIJRE "catastrophe theory," prof. e. brucewil­
Tht Obllrvtr Is a member of the 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556
Associated Press. All reproduction
math club. BULLA SHED. 
Telephone: 219-283-648)
rights are reserved. 
----~ 

The Observer Tuesday, April29, 1980 -page· 3 
"I renewed that contract in April on good faith that I would be up for tenure at the end of that 
... Lifton time," he said. "On May 19, ! received a registered letter from Dr. Hickey stating that the 

[continued from page 1] 
public speaking to a study of the ways people use symbols tu mreracr. 
The thrust 0f rhe Th~atre education will be on performance, according to Lifton. He made the distinction between studying drama as literature which is the function of the English department, and actually pedi::.rming rhe works, which is the essence of theater. 
Lifton said the change in curriculum is typical of directions in :nodern education. Many other schools, such as the University of Iowa, have switched the emphasis or· their education from Speech to a bn·ader study of communication theory. · 
Lifton explained that the Communications and Theatre department will also ''put film under the Communications umbrella,'' but reaffirmed the department's ''emphasis on liberal arts. We don't want to train filmmakers, although some people do make films.'' The department offers a Film and Video course of studies, in addition to concentration in Speech Communications and Mass Communications. 
As an interdisciplinary department between 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, the Communica­
tions and Theatre Department works basically as 
one institution They employ faculty from both 
schools, which, according to Lifton, they try to 
keep evenly distributed. 
Students registered in either University or 
College receive their degrees from their respec­
tive institution. All the facilities of either school 
are open to the students. 
But the change in the department includes 
more than just a change in name and 
curriculum; it includes a major turnover of 
faculty. 
When Lifton came to Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's as chairman two years ago, there were 
seven members of the faculty teaching Theatre 
and one temporary part-time and one visiting 
professor teaching Speech courses. The lack of 
teachers in the Speech courses made it 
necessary for some of the Theatre faculty to 
teach the courses. For next year, the part-time 
position is being made permanent and the 
department is looking for someone to fill a new 
position just created in Communicatons. 
A number of changes have been made in the 
Theatre department during the past year. 
Within the last year, three teachers received 
"terminal" contracts. This le:1ves oue non-ten­
ured faculty member, Julie Jensen, and the only 
two tenured members of the department, Fred 
$yburg and Reginald Bain, both on Notre Dame 
contracts. 
There is no Saint Mary's faculty member with 
tenure. 
The department works under one. chairman, 
but under two administrations. According to 
Vice President and Dean of Faculty William 
Hickey, this does not usually produce any 
conflict in the administration of the department 
since both schools have a comparable system of 
operation
According to Hickey, the tenure policy is the 
same for both schools; only procedure differs. 
When the interdisciplinary department was 
formed, it was agreed that at the department 
level it would use Notre Dame's system of 
creatin~ a Committee on Appointments and 
Promouons that would make recommendations 
for tenure appointments. 
The CAP consists of the chairman, a Saint 
Mary's faculty member, and a Notre Dame 
faculty member, both tenured if possible. The 
committee is elected by all the faculty by closed 
ballot. The CAP makes recommendations to the 
deans of both schools, and after discussion 
between the chairman and the dean a decision is 
made. 
The CAP makes recommendations to the 
dean, provost and the administration at Notre 
Dame and to the Committee on Academic Rank 
and Tenure at Saint Mary's. 
At Notre Dame, faculty members receive two 
three-year contracts, coming up for tenure after 
the second contract. At Saini Mary's, faculty 
receive one-year contracts, which can be 
terminated any year. After four one-year 
contracts, a Saint Mary's faculty member can 
come up for early tenure decision. 
Unlike the tenure decision made after the six 
years, a teacher can still receive one-year 
contracts, coming up for tenure aft<"" the sixth 
year, if he is denied early tenure. 
David Weber, an associate professor at Saint 
Mary's, was denied tenure last year, making his 
contract terminal this year 
Miles Coiner_ the second professor to be 
terminated, was an associate professor at Saint 
Mary's. He came up for early tenure last year, 
but was denied. Be signed a one-year contract 
in April, 1979, with the understanding that he 
would be up for tenure at the end of that time, he 
said. · contract I signed was a terminal contract. It was made terminal after the fact, six weeks later " Coiner stated. ' 
The third member of the department to receive a terminal contract this vear was Diane Hawfield, an assistant professor at Saint Mary's. Hawfield was told that she was given a terminal contract because she had an MA without the equivalent professional experience of an MFA.~ 
A fourth professor who will not be returning next year is Joseph Chilberg. In the department on a visiting professorship this past year, 
, Chilberg taught part-time in the Speech concen­tration. Lifton refused to discuss· personnel matters, cmng administration policy that such matters remain confidential. 
The curriculum change now leaves three distinct communications majors-English, American Studies and Communications and Theatre. Each department has its own approach to the communications field, and together they form a comprehensive to educational program, administrators say. 
They make the 'point that communications majors can now synthesize a deep understand­ing of both practical and theoretical aspects of the field by combining major courses. and electives in related courses of study. 
Lifton said he consulted with the chairmen of the departments that might be affected by the change before altering his department's curric­ulum. "There is no need to duplicate the efforts' of other departments that are already staffed and working," he said. He said the other departments were "extremely favorable" to the changes being made. 
Donald Costello, chairman of the Program in American Studies, saw the demarcation of the three majors more distinctly defined as a result of the change in departments. Alrhough the departmental change will have no direct effect on the American Studies program, Costello said the change will underline the essential differ­ences in philosophy of the departments. 
Costello said the English department is meant for students interested in ''wordcraft,'' the actual use of words in writing and literature. The new Communications and Theatre depart­ment concentrates on communications theory and theater. American Studies deals with communications within the context of American culture: that is, with practical aspects of journalism. Film and broadcasting majors can choose between Communications and Theatre and American Studies. 
"\X'e are not changing our aim," Costello said. "We are reinforcing our communications specialty. We have a good program in Communications Arts, and offer graduate level study in this field during the summer. 
Costello emphasized that the American Studies program is still committed to journalism. He said the program is "historically rooted" in communications, and that ''we intend to remain that way and broaden our department.'' 
He said American Studies ts a good prepara­tory course of study for journalism because the major places writers in a framework of American culture. '') ournalists need something to journalize about," Costello said. The program's interdisciplinary format allows students to develop a broad background to use when writing, he explained. 
The program is emphasizing its commitment by hinng a new professor to specialize in journalism courses. The professor, Robert Schmuhl, is at present the assistant director of the Poynter Center at Indiana University at Bloomington. The center studies the relation­ship of journalism, American life, and American universities. He will teach print journalism and television courses next semester. 
Costello said the courses offered in the other majors ''will enrich the program in American Srudies," by allowing students to broaden the possibilities of communications courses as electives. In fact, the American Studies program will share four courses with the English department next semester. 
"These courses are all relevant to each other's program," Costello said. "By cross listing them, w,~ guarantee tnat our majors get into the classes. · ­
Th0mas Wet~' . .:hainnan of th•· Engli.,.h department, sees "no .. ajor impact · Ot• ,'lis department as a result of the departmental change. He pointed out that the study of writing still falls under the rubric of the department. The change in format ''will be an interesting experiment," he said ·.L,· will f'rovide a greater variety of combinations for students, and will provide a more varied media program." Students may synthesize courses to create an interdisciplinary appr?ach to media, he added. 

Evidence ofcampus alcohol n'tuals: Howard Hall residents attempt an entirely new design in fire escapes [above], whtle one renegade overimbiber [below] disdains the usual porcelain god for this aluminum-and-plastic tdol. [photos by Greg Maurer] 

SENIOR BAR SEMI-FORMAL 
Tuesday April29th 
9:30pm till 3:00am 
atSeniorBar 
S5 bids on sale in LaFortune at lunch and at the Bar. 
BID ENTITLES YOU TO 
bampagne Specials­
'nk Sbeci-..¥fr--.---• 
--------1,beesef,_;;.i G~racke·r ~­

ALOTOFFTJN 


. 1 ~ ~ .~ ·-.• 

~·" <-...~-,' .' • '·.· ·, ·~ \"j, 
• 

The Observer Tuesday, April 29, 1980 -page 4 
Colombian crisis ends 
Father's release elates student 


By Mary Fran Callahan Senzor StaffReporter 

The son of U.S Ambas sad or Diego Asencio, who Marxist terrorists released Sunday after holding him hostage for 61 days in a Colomb'''<?n embassy. 
. Ja. . ''h

sa1d yesterday ..~ IS JUSt ap py th~.t Dad is safe and o.;ounrl. 
Diego Asencio, Jr., a first 1·ear law student at Notre Dame. said that he and his family wen· fearful for his far her's life at the onset of the terrorists' seizure, but the or­deal has not disillusioned him from pursuing his own political careu . 
Ascencio spoke with his fa­r ht·r Sunday evening in a phone conversation. whic_h CBS televised. AsenciO sard hts tarhn was happy to be back. Acrord111g to the son, the terrorists treated their hos­tages well throughout the. ~ap­riviry, but hostages utilized their own creative resources to pass the time. 
Asencio said his father frep­quently engaged in politi~al discussions and debates wrth otht'r hostages and terrorists. ·'Dad tried to convince the comandante that his political 
p_hilos_ophy was wrong,'' Asen­
CIO sa1d. 
He said the hostages played 
dominoes and read literature 
which was already inside the 
Dominican Republic Embassy. 
Terrorists, however, did not 
provide the hostages with any 
outside reading materials. 
Asencio Sr. began writing a book about his hostage experi­ence while held captive in Colombia. Seized ambassadors also lectured on areas in their expertise for all those held 
captive. 
The hostages were well-fed, 
Asencio said, but occasionally 
reports would leak that th_e 
quality of the food was deten­
orating. "The wives would 
then take care of it. They 
would send wine and food to 
the hostages,'' and, according 
to Asencio, ''the hostages 
shared it with the terrorists." 
Asencio Jr. spent a portion 
of last summer m Colombim at 
which time he planted an acre 
of strawberries in the familial 
garden. ''When my mother 
heard the food was getting 
bad she called the garderner 
anci' had my strawberries 
sent," AsenciO said. As an 

RIVERKWAI 

mondayaoril28 & tuesday april29 
7:00& 10:00 

~~~~~~ITORI 

SOMMFJI STORAGE SPACE Special dascount for ND 101d SMC students, 
259-0335 
SeU Lock Storage ot McKinley 816East. McKinley 
Mishawaka 
Pfister Joe's Bar 

would like to wish Co-owner Mary N. Schneider and Tex Brady a very wild liquid twentieth birthday Look out Elkhart-the lugers willbe there! 'Tt's been a pfabulous vear-tune in next vear wheYi we hear Rart ask: Is Marv reallv in San Diego visitinl! Oscar the Owner 
afterthought, he mentioned that his fruit received favorable comments from the terrorists. 
Asencio said he does not believe the two month ordeal has imprinted psychological scars on his father. "The kids that took over the embassy are the ones that aren' r all mental­ly together." he said. 
He also commented that his 
father wanted to return to Colombia .:·to say goodbye to everyone. 
Asencio's father will retain a position at the State Depart­ment. Accon~ing to the son, the State Department custo­marily offers choice positions to ambassadors who have un­dergone terrorist seizures. Asencio Sr. is optimistic and anxious to resume work, ac­
.cording to'his son. 
Earher in the semester, Asencio Jr. travelled to Wash­ington to voice his mounting concern over the embassy sei­zure to the State Department. Though he did not find the department uncooperative, he sa1d he believed they could have been doing more for his 
·family. ''I went there in person to impress my concern upon 
· them. I think they did do more for us after that,'' Asencio commented referring to in­
. creased communication. Undaunted by his father's capture, Asencio, ironically, plans to apply for a State Department job. He explained that he must write an essay detailing why he desires such employment. "The only thing that was holding me back was the tense situation. Now that things are back to normal, I'm going to write it," he said. When classes finish for the 
semester, Asencio plans to work for a Michigan law firm. 
Faced with rigorous aca­demic pressure in addition to the emotional burden of th(' past two months, Asencio said he owes gratitude to the deans and students who provided him with "reassurance and sup­port" to continue his studies. 
Ascencio defined the politi­cal climate in Colombia as one of "crazy terrorist organiza­tions.'' When asked what he thought would happen to the terrorists, he answered, "They will be at Castro's discretion.'' 
He then  added,  "I think  
people  will  be  a  lot  more  
careful  now  about  who  they  

invite to their parties." 
jazzBands . present 
festival 
The Notre Dame Jazz Bands will present "Dimensions in Jazz,'' -a mini jazz f!=stival in Washington Hall tomght at 8 p.m. 
MFA 
candidates sponsorshow 
Notre Dame candidates for a MFA will present a ''MFA Thesis s;h ow,'' through Friday in the Isis Gallery of the Old Fieldhouse. Works by Silvana Foti, Joan Gallagher and Megan Quinn will be shown. 

The annual anxiety and indecision overHmmm... next year's room picks pret,ails this week. [photo b_y Greg Matlrer) 

by Earl Rix 
The Saint Mary's bookstore 
is selling a riot-control agent 
for personal defense use. 
About the size of a small 
butane lighter and enclosed in 
a leather covering attached ro a 
key ring, the product is called 
Chemical Shield and is sold by 
Weapons Corporation of Ame~­
ica. Its makers cl;um that tf 
. the one-half ounce aerosol is 
sprayed into an attackers face 
it: immediately immobilizes 
incapacitates for 20-30 min­
utes 
. makes face and eyes burn 
and makes eyes snap shut 
causes instant panic and 
physical agony 
induces dizziness, nausea, 
and a feeling of suffocation 
causes coughing, sneezing 
and choking 
LTC. Gordon of ROTC was 
familiar with the military uses 
of CS, the chemical irritant in 
the spray. "It is one of the 
chemtcals in tear gas," Gordon 
explained. "It is a riot control 
~as. CS is an irritant and an 
mcapacitating agent. It affects 
the sinuses and eyes, causes 
the nose to run, and causes 
sneezing. Ifit is sprayed in the 
face in an aerosal spray, the 
human startled reaction is to 
take a breath, and this may 
cause a feeling of choking. '' 
''My guess 1s that if sprayed into the eyes and face, that it would be effective,'' Gordon continued, "but not being a chemist, I would not want to recommend this particular con­centration of CS (one percent) and I would hesitate to say how long it would last." 
Gordon saw no danger of permanent injury from the use of the gas. "I've never seen anyone with permanent effects from exposure to CS," he said. 
Lt. Grabner of the South Bend Police Department ques­tioned a woman's ability to use the spray in the event of an attack "Ninety-nine percent of the time it is in the woman's purs(' ' Grabner maintained. ''Most of the time culprits won't meet the victim head on anyhow, and will take her 

-·--------------1 
'You have the right to 
defend yourself to the 
limit...with gas , · 
shotgun , or whatever' 

purse and any weapons she might have inside it. I've been here a long time and I don't know of any· time when a woman has had a chance to use it." 
Grabner, however, did not question a person's right to carry the product. "You have the right to defend yourself to the limit. .. with gas, shotgun, or whatever," Grabner said. ''The only people under the restriction in usmg any kind of force are police. The average citizen can defend himself or his property to the maximum." 
Several students shopping in the bookstore were asked what they thought about the sale of gas. One student said, "I myself wouldn't use it but I will admit that a lot of us are afraid of walking home. '' 
''I'm not sure I like what it does to a person,'' Saint Mary's student Barbera Pratt said. "I think it is important that there is some means of defense. I don't think there is any defense at this time. There is no security at all on the road and the lighting is inappropriate·.'' 
. • •. r .-,-, .. ' ,. .,.-•• P•P -·------' .... -.. t'" a.,--• .-­



JOB OPPORTUNITY with brand energysavingproductfor cars and trucks. timepeople can easily make $10perhour Full time much more. 
Call collect foran appointment at 
LaFortune studcnr Center 
Main Lobby Art>a 
Tuesday, April29, 1980 -page 5 
Prepares independent campaign 
Anderson remains optimistic 
by Tim Vercellotti StaffReporter 
Optimism and determination 
characterize Congreeman ] ohn 
Anderson's'Independent bid for 
the White House. Frank 
Maggio, a 1963 graduate of the 
Notre Dame Law School and a 
rankin~ member of Anderson's 
campatgn, told The Observer 
that he is "encouraged, par­
ticularly on the legal and money 
matters." 
Maggio, who served as 
chairman of the Anderson for 
President Committee while 
Anderson was running as a 
Republican, foresees some dif­
ficulties in getting his can­
didate's name on the November 
ballot. One such problem 
involves the deadline for peti­
tion which place a name in 
nomination for the Presidency. 
In some states the deadline for 
filing these petitions has 
passed. Locally, the Indiana­
polis office of the Anderson 
campaign disclosed that sup­
porters have until August 22 to 
collect close to 7,000 signatures 
for the Rockford congressman. 
Francis Sheehan, an atde in 
the legal department of Ander­
son's national campaign, re­
ported that another obstacle is 
that some states have no pro­
cess whatsoever through which 
Independent candidates can. 
secure a spot on the President­
ial ballot. The task· is not 
impossible, however Accord-
Lunch marks 
final fast 
tomorrow 
Tomorrows tunch will mark >he last time ~tudents will be required to give up their lunch as parr of tht" World Hunger . Coalition's voluntary lunch fast. 
Students can 'resume their 
nonnal lunch schedule on 
Wednesdays beginning next 
week. 
Final UMOC results 

DoiJ'l Yoctus Dan Hussey John Sa1gh Torr Kleegle Anne Sacco Zetv 
'Mr Bill" Patt Mlc~ "Bizzare ·Mancuso Brian "Cro-Mag" Foley Bob Shreve Bill "Gnzz" Nellis! Kathy Casey Roger Klass Pete Boesen Jay Dinga Jim Chohrek Tom T. Donnell 
Ed Carroll Hollie Ezze Cap'n Twak Mike in Tuscan etc. Michael DisSpigno Bill Katzenberger Steve Rudnicki Larry Puglia Chip "The Scuzzo" Denkovich Rob Gagnon Pam DegnanChuck "Hollywood" Dyer Professor Thomas Marullo Bob Hogan Dave "Babyface" Milia Kent "Flounder" Schmidt Anne Wlllke Marty Detmer Dick .Ben is Big Ed at the Rock Dave "Bonnie" Brehl Joe "Frogs" Cristforo George Fantry Dave "Wildman" Welsh Carla McCaughey 
105 C.hris Cavanagh 
104 Kevm "Enright" Cawneen 
100 Steve Milan 
100 Jean Murtagh 
100 Tom Tallarida 
100 Buddha 
100 Stephen "Poopdeck" Ren 
100 Rick Scholl 
100 Mike Esparza 
100 Mike Burke 
100 Bagel Soltest 
100 Junior Thomas 
100 Phil Vanderhoff 
100 John Bruce 
100 Jim Tyrrell
100 Ken Berumen ' 100 Morrie Conway100 Patty Crowe 
100 J.D. "The Phallic Man" 
86 Pete Daly
82 Andy Dempsey
80 Jim Gr.uden 
70 John Freidman 
66 Ron Fortino 
63 Irish Wake Corpse
61 Slick Madonia 
56 Cathy Malia 
58 Pat McGonigle
56 Bill Meagher 
50 Melvin 
50 N.D. Social Commission 
50 Spike
50 Tracy Walters 
50 . Dick "The Gullible" Allison 50 Beth Chrobot 50 Mark Tabit 50 Tim Donlin 50 Kevin Korowicki 
. 45 
Mike O'Sullivan 
45 
43581 40897 22397 10791 8397 5439 4939 2678 
2424 
2224 2212 1900 1292 1146 1131 1093 1000 870 758 577 431 381 
305 
304 282 225 222 200 185 158 150 
150 
146 
145 
136 132 125 121 121 115 112 110 
41 
41 40 40 38 36 36 
35 
33 31 · 30 30 28 27 26 25 
25 
25 
25 
25 25 25 25 25 25 25 25 25 25 25 25 25 25 23 23 23 20 20 20 
43 
[continued on page 11]
43 
j 
J 

Mark Davis Scott Oms Dave Boss 
Mike Burger 
Frank Castellino 
Frank DiNardo 
Demse Doyle 
Don Ginocchio 
Dick Glaser 
MaryJane Hart 
Bill Jackson Billy Jackson Billy Kane Reid Mclntyer Nina Netchi 
Opie Pable Sainz Paul Stauder 
Joe "Ugly" Wheaton Bob Laughlin Ed Moran 
D.J. "The B.J." Rectenwald Henry Vazenluzn , Kelly Tripucka Joe Treanor Fr. John Conners 10th Floor Flanner Wendell Welsh Walsh Hall--4th Floor Jim "Sweetie Pie" Filar Tee "Honeybunch" Hentges Bob Muldoon Kevin Paulson Greg Raglan Dan Rauch James "Staplestude" Stapleton Paul "The Bean" Thompson Rich "No-Chin" Wooster Tom "Waz' Wazillewski Jeff Young Dan McKernan Joe Treanor 
ing to Maggio, former senator Eugene McCarthy broke down some barriers in his Independ­ent bids for the White House. 
Maggio still conceded that "in some states we'll have to win some lawsuits." Maggio expressed confidence in the matter of campaign contribu­tions. "We have potentially large sulms of money tenta­tively committed to the cam­paign," Maggio explained. He also pointed out that Anderson needs only five percent of the popular vote to re-gain a por­tion of these funds. 
A lack of convention dele­gates dictated that Anderson 
' give up 1his campaign as a Republiqm. Maggio is quick to point ounhat Anderson will not be a "spoiler" for the Repub­lican ,and Democratic candi­dates. He called the campaign "a long, hard battle not one that we are {>Ursuing as a lark. It's somethmg that 'profess­ionals have studied, and we have a good chance,'' Maggio stated. 
According to Maggio., support for Anderson is not lacking. "Support seems to be very broad based, and that is one of the things that is encouraging to us," Maggio said. Maggio . quoted rolls showing that 50 percent o the public ts unhappy with both Ronald Reagan, the Republican frontrunner for the nomination, and President Carter. 
Maggio expects that Ander­son will draw votes from the liberal and moderate wings of both the Republican and Demo­cratic parttes, and frorri Ind­ependent voters. He cited the results of crossover voting in the Wsconsin primary, where Anderson received mort votes than were expected, to >~pport his ·statemem. 
The immediate goal of the campaign is to get Anderson's name on the ballot in all 50 states. Sheehan called this "a long, tedious process.'' The ultimate goal is, of course, the White House. 
With a note of determination in his voice, Maggio character­ized Anderson's bid for the Presidency as "a serious effort, with success in mind.'' 

.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Editorials 
/ Tuesday, April 29, 1980 -page 6 


Bookstore tainted ry prejudice 
Avis B. jones 

On April 22, 1980, I stood witness to 3; massive unveiling of social problems, which proceeded to invade and ovenake the people present and the atmosphere surrounding. The time, 7 
p.m. The place, Notre Dame. The scene, Stepan Center,. court #7. 
The basketball game was betweent the BUITS, an all black ream, and US, an all white team. The whistle blew, the game was underway. The BUITS had somewhat of an edge in size with two players at about 6:5" 2451bs., up against a US team Jt an average of 6'3" 180 lbs. With Bookstore being very
iphysical anyway' fouls would definitely prove crucial here. As time elapsed, I noticed that the sky began to darken and the crowd thickened. From the beginmng there seemed to be 
an air of discontent among the fans. Crucial calls were being made and crucial fouls were overlooked by the student teferees. Slowly but surely, sides were being taken, no J.mger according to friendships or any other conventional means. but according to race. Yes it was black for black and 
i white for white with very few exceptions. I was quite stunned at the degree of this developing behavior. A quick ~~lance around was necessary to make sure that this was that
l 
mfamous "Christian institution", the University of Notre
l 
Dame and not my home-state of Mississippi where such 
~ 
behavior is expected by some. I had heard rumors testifying t·o crowd patterns ofsimilar nature in previous years, but this was a see-it·to-believe-it occurrence for me. There was a crowd who made it very evident that they were cheermg for their race, and a couple of intimidated referees who overlooked a few obvious fouls committed by US. As one spectaror/ut it, "You had to see it to believe it." I saw it and still foun it hard to believe. · 
Were these a people of lighter skin tone? A people some of whom, attend Mass? A people whom I watch sun-bathe on the quads for darker skin? A people who compose the vast majority of this ''Christian institution" ···Were these a people who openly scorned another race of peoples whose only significant difference is the degree of skin pigmentation? Yes, I'm sorry to say, they were .... ·· 
Subsequently, I be~ an to qu~stion the facade of this university. How is tt that we can launch such great campaigns to combat world problems and totally ignore the social problems present here daily? It seems to me that our efforts should be just as concentrated on the homefront to week out the racial prejudices breeding. 
Now, some of you may argue that I have no right to dictate who you should and should not cheer for. Well, you're right, but then again that's not the purpose here. Some m~y say, ''You cheer for your ream, why can'twc cheer for ours?'' My reply to such a question is that due ro the very small black population of this campus(approximately2 %) most everyone rs acquainted with one another. However, I find it difficult co believe that there exists one white of the approximately 95% majority that is acquainted with everyone else. Correct me if I'm wrong! 
Solutions? Well, the attitude that the event last Tuesday was "just a game" will never get us anywhere. ukewise, the feeling that "nothing can be done" will find us at letter A----permanently. Thoug;h I'm no expert, solutions, I think, should begin on an indivtdual basis before progress can be made. They say we've come a long way, l say we have even further to go, so don't stop now! 
Avis B. jones is a sophomore biology major at Notre Dame. 
Doonesbury by Garry Trudeau 
7Jf3 ~Sllfm HASIJiiW5HT HeR£ IS 7HAT I THINK IT'5 
THe lf}/Nr I WANT 7D MAKE 
MJTHIN6 EM /tfOI!AL a:cAY. 17M& 17M& W& PtiT IJEJIINO 115 7Hc 
AMJ NiAJN, ~ /AJ!!iFIIFE 5'I5TEM CYSO?t£¥7EP fWC£5 (F FW­
HAS IHJ PfR&OLY 7{) C/lJfEINJ E:KAL HANOWT5 1 1Ht lJ/!!OOtJRDI a'rno~"-"·1 
'Townies' resJX>nd 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is a response to "Mick" Mancuso's review of Ted Nugent in the Thursday April 24 Observer. 
Five times Mancuso takes time out of his anicle to abuse the crowd. The article is more an exampe of Mancuso's su.Per­ior attitude towards "towmes" than a review of Ted Nugent. Mr. Mancuso states that fortun­ately the "total number of N.D. students could have been seated comfortably in the Nazz." Why is this ~o fortunate "Mick"? Is it because N.D. students should recognize their superiority and avoid those kind of people? Unfortunately for you Mr. Mancuso next year you're soin~ to have to live with ''townies' somewhere, al­
though I'm sure you will do your best to continue this "us" a~ainst "them" relationship. It will just be transformed into "us at the country dub" as opp~sed to the people . at the pubhc pool. Does bemg an 
N.D. student make you superior Mr. Mancuso? 
It's a shame that you, Mr. Mancuso, have the opportunity to represent N.D. through your review because you represent what is so bad about N.D. As a rock-n-roU reviewer "Mick", I suggest that you take off your deck shoes and put ona leather jacket or else start revrewing ] ohn Denver albums. On that note, maybe at the]ohn Denver concert you got to be with a real 
N.D. crowd that is more suit· able to your taste. 
Frank]ohnson 
Reagan blasted 
Dear Editor, 
How ironic that we should be treated to Big Business Day, Earth Day, "Dr. Strangelove: Or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb' , and a visit from Ronald Reagan all within one week. Your article of April 23 appropriately describes the situation; your average Domer is perfectly content to blindly allow an 
aging actor in a cowboy hat wno spouts aging ideas make the most important decisions in the world. 
Examining Reagan's speech shows that the best way to put Nixon back in the White House is to vote Ronnie in '80. (Those of you saying ''What was wrong with Nixon, anyway?'' need read no funher.) 
"We have to be strong enough so that no other nation will dare to lift a hand against us." Translated: the bigger the bomb the better the peace, so 8et ready for another batch of mflationary mega-death Penta­gon toys which won't work when we get them anyway. 
''Decontrol the energy indus­try and let the private sector develop our oil and natural gas. •' Translated: let big business rape the consumer and the environment rather than explore solar and wind power, etc. when we have already come dangerously dose to slittmg our national throat by dependance on non-renewable energy. Of course Ronnie is probably acting on information from the "expens", Mobil's advenising campaign. . What about Reagan's "pro­life" stance. By his own standards he is responsible for the deaths of a quaner of a million people because he dido' t mind his verbiage. Will he show the same competence as President? 
But The Observer itself is guilty of shoddy journalism. On 
p. 7 clustered among the photos of die-hard arch-conservatives is what appears to be another Reagan supponer. Actually it's a photo of one of two daring, intelligent, controversial prot· testers who we reo' t about to join the lemmings in their march to hear Ronnie. They realized that just because some­one plays "God Bless Ameri­ca" doesn't mean you're honor­bound to elect him president without intelligently consider­ing the issues. They were evidence that just maybe as Pete Townshend says, some of us "won't get fooled again." 
John T. Murphy Jim Sherry 
Towerfight : Conklin errs 
Dear Editor, 
In response to the anicle which appeared in The Obser­ver Thursday, April 24, and 
·NAB~ 
MOMIN84BY 
AXJ/116.. "' 
Conklin's final statement, "I don't think we threw anything. If there was something thrown, it might have been someone from Flanner who was respon­sible," leads me to believe that he could not possibly have witnessed what occurred at Dillon Hall or at the towers. Also, it seems odd that Flanner threw nothing until Dillon ar­rived and the rocks came from the Dillon group standing at the construction sighr. 
Granted, most all of the Dillon sroup was just showing hall sptrit and threw nothing. There is nothing wrong with getting rowdy, showing hall spirit, and trying to have a good ume -Dillon is well-known for that. The fireworks were used in that spirit of fun, alth~ugh it is true that they can possibly be dangerous, but I cannot believe that the throwing · by a few · of bottles, cans and rocks was done in that same spirit. Per­haps Mr. Conklin was not present to witness any of what happened and relied on second­hand information to make his remarks. If so, he should have refrained from making them. If he was present, then Mr. Conklin could have given an accurate representation of what occurred during the tower wars. 
Many Pallante 
Editor's note: Marty Pallante is a resident ofGrace Hall. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-m-Chief....... . Paul Mullane~· 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Managmg Editor . . . . . . .... Mark RustThe Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 

Edrtonals Editor...... . Mike Onufrak 

1Jniversity ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Senror Copy Editor . . . Lynne Daley 

, eflect the policies of the administration of either instirutton. The news is reponed 
Neu·s Editur. . . . . ... Pam Degnan

as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views Neu·s Editor.......... .. Tom Jackman of their authors. Column space ts available to all members of the community, and News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . John McGrath rhe free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC E:,.:ecutit•e Edrtor .. Margie Brassil 
S,\1C Nrws Editor ........... Mary Leavitt Sports Editor..... . ... Beth Huffman Features Editor .............. Kate Farrell Fe.2tures Editor ............ Molly Woulfe Photo Editor .................. ] ohn Mac or 
Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges Advertzsing Manager .. Mike Holsinger Production Manager .... Ann Monaghan 


Features 
Tuesday, April 29, 1980 -page 7 
Exit laughing 


The one regret I have, as we come to the end of another year, is that there are so many walking around this place as though the whole world were on their shoulders. These are the joyless, smileless persons who suffer one downer after another; who, because their world is so small, consider almost every challenge of growing up as a major crisis. 
I wish they could learn something from Lazarus. You see, Lazarus came out of the tomb laughing. He had discovered the answer to the question, "What happens when you die?'' Lazarus realized that death was not the end, but just the beginning of life everlasting. He would, for the rest of his life, share that discovery with people, building up their hope. And when he died {the final time) he died laughing, for he'd already faced death before and so didn't fear it any more. 
The lesson that Lazarus would 
teach us is the lesson of hope -­
the hope that comes from trusting 
that God's grace is being poured out 
on the world; ho_pe that what should 
be shall be, confident that the future 
is not entirely in human hands but in 
the hands of a certain Carpenter who 
wept at the grave of Lazarus and 
called him forth. 
In the light of such hope, and with 
the assurance of a liberating God, 
one can laugh at the human folly in 
each and every one of us, even in the 
midst of misery. Life is meant to 
have that sort of balance, that type 
of tension. At one and the same 
time we can say what a fabulous 
world this is and what an unbeliev­
ably crummy world this is. We are 
called to deal with this dilemma to recognize that life is not absurd but ambiguous, filled with many mean­ings, some of which appear contra­dictory. 
Humor is the great leveler. It can help us laugh at ourselves and our foibles with the same patience and gentleness with which God must laugh at us (like when we treat a room-pick frustration as though it were as Serious as the hostage situation in Iran). But such humor is easily misunderstood, ever apt to scandalize moralistic and critical minds. No wonder Gilbert Chester­ton shocked the world of his time when he-suggested that Jesus with­drew into the desert because He could no longer control His laughter and knew that His mirth and joy would only be misunderstood. 
Hope does marvelously strange 
things to us. Regrettably, a lot of 
people aren't ready for it. To them 
we will seem to be out of touch and 
unsympathetic to the misery and 
sinfulness in the world, or malicious 
in our l~ughter at ~he expens~ of ·such . misery, or JUSt downnght uncanng. 
Herb Gardner, in his delightful play A Thousand Clowns, had his main character Murray comment about his nephew in the following passage: "He is a Iaugher, and laughers are rare. I mean, you tell that kid something funny ... not just any piece of corn, but something funny, and he'll give you your money's worth. It's not just funny jokes he reads, or I tell him, that he laughs at. Not just setup funny stuff. He sees street jokes, he has the good eye, he sees subway farce and crosstown-bus humor and all the cartoons that people make by being alive. He has a good eye." 
Lazarus had a good eye! He realized that he was not raised up in resurrection; something quite diff­erent had happened to him. He was resuscitated, reclaimed, returned to a still mortal world with its taxes and burdens and painful trials. And he would still have to die. So he was right back where he started... but not exactly. For Lazarus had seen enough on the other side to make him a man of hope. And he would pass it on: God is love; He does care; He frees His people. All the promises are true! 
We ourselves are meant to come to a point where we refuse to believe that God, who has constantly been offering us more life, would be such a monster as to suddenly reverse the process at the end. He ts the God of the living. Sirice our destiny of full life can't be reached until the final breakthrough, physical death is not the end but the end ofall those steps of breaking forth into new life through deaths --as a child, adolescent, adult. 
As a matter of fact, that final step of physical death is really our last step in being born. Let me illustrate the point wtth a rather remarkable story. · 
A short while back, a priest-friend of mine died of cancer. He was a truly wonderful man, a compassion­ate and· loving servant of people. But he saved the best for last. During those final weeks of lingering suffenng, he gave a tremendous example of courage, trust and hope to all of us who spent time with him. He began to s_Jip fast; and everybody 

Fr Bill Toohey 
days. Then somebody recalled that 
his birthday was approaching; and 
\' we all began to wonder if we were It about to witness a strange coinci­dence. It happened that way. Father Ed Abstetar, C.S.C. died on his birth­day. And, once again, we were confronted with a powerful trurl-of Christian tradition. In the histo·f of the church, saints most frequ ~r·:ly are commemorated on the day they died; for that, in the beltef of Christians, is truly the day they are born into heaven. ~hro':lgh a startling coincidence, Ed s b1rthday became his day of birth! In a true sense, as John Dunne pointed out in Ed's funeral homily, all oflife is meant to be seen as life in the womb. All our failures and frailties are like the floundering of the unborn child; in this life we still share some of the helplessness and dependency of the unborn. Only with the final breakthrough and passover at death do we become fully alive. To have witnessed a death-into­life like that of my friend, is to become convinced of the reasonable­ness ofour hope; it is to affirm that a God who regenerates the earth each spring will surely raise up His ~ons and daughters. And so we finally come to see-­to see that at the end we are just beginning. It's not "dearly depar­ted," but "newly arrived." It is to know forever that He wasn't kidding when He said, "I have come that you might have life, and have it to the full." 
Father Bill Toohey is Director of Campus Ministry and a regular Observer feature wn"ter. 
Qtmmtc{Qg gOUft ·u\JltQ~wood' uUaftkuUuvvieeo 

Is it a poem, or it is a play? As a work, does it demand more to be it difficult t? understan~ them. Finally, as if Dylan Thomas' words don't recited, or more to be performed? have suffiCient emphasts, some of the text is recited by two or three 
These are the questions confronting one _who is directing DyTan Thomas' n~rrat?rs simultaneously w~ich only _garbles those passages. Weber "Under Milkwood", the final presentation of the ND-SMC Theater's mtsgUldedly causes the audience to focus on those reciting the verse season . (The author's intentions do not help to solve the dilemnaJor rather than on the all-important verse itself. ' presenting the work on a live stage since ''Under Milkwood'' was originally To make matters worse, the director here is indeed confused. In the written as a radio play). . program notes he points out that "the setting before you is Milkwoo.d a:­
Therefore, since the pie~e is both P?em and pl~y_, an ~mbt~uity results. dre~e~ btCaptain Cat." ~owever, the program itself mentions that the This causes a dilemna; m presenung the wnung 1magmauvely, yet settmg 1s the town of Mdkwood, as seen from the Sailor's Arms ... a carefully !?reserving the ~ntegrity of t~e lyric~! verse of t_he poetry, and the taproom.'' It is wron_g to have a band ?n stage..Milkwood is supposed dramatic 1mpact of the live presentation. Director Dav1d Weber does not to be seen through the mtnd of the now bhnd Captam Cat. That should be suffer from lack of creative imagination, but the play fails, because he does the focus, to preserve the dramatic setting. . not preserve the integrity of the work, either as po_em or as play. . Yet that sett~ng is not"preserved at all. The taproom, not Captain Cat 
"Under Milkwood" is the story of a day in the hfe of a small, fishmg-becomes the wtndow through which the audience views the action. It is a~ oriented village in Wales and is presented here in the modern, close ab~se of dramatic license to have band members also be characters in the confines of the Bendix Theatre at Century Center. All the many entrances acuon and m~we back and forth so free!y. TQ have band members smoking to the stage are used and every nook and cranny couches a player at one on stage dunng the performance is offensive and inexcusable. time or another during the presentation. . . . . . The _band,_ a non-essential element, is central on-stage. Much of the 
There are periods in which t_he focus ~f the aud1e!lce IS Joltmgly shifted essenual acuon of ,the tlayers take~ place _throughout the theatre, but every few seconds by the. various spotlights beamu~g alternately o!l the off;~tage. Co_nseque?,tlr ,_the dramauc focus ts d~stroyed. This production different players located vlrtual~y throughout the ~ntlfe theat~e. This be-of Unde~ Mdkwood d~smtegrates from drama mto a disconnected series comes distracting, even ~n?ytng, as the techn.tque loses Its effect by ofhapp~mngs. T~e ~udu;nce could not even tell when the play had ended. overuse. However, the hghnng on stage evocative of dream sequences Despite s.uc~ misdirection, a few talented performers salvage their roles. 
succeeds well in fulfilling that purpose. . . . . Ed Neuert Is simply outstanding in all three of his characterizations -the 
The lighting crew deserves much credit for tmplemennng th1s complex love-crazed Mog Edwards, Butcher Beynon, the man who makes pets into 

scheme without any hitches. Even at the opening performance on Fnday st~w, and the hen-pecked Mr. Ogmore. He is delightfully out of his mind 
evening, when one might expect a technical flaw or two, every aspect of the Wit~ each character he portrays, and has a winning wa~ with an audience. 
lighting seemed. to be. carried. out perfe~tly. . .. . .. Li~by Drumm do~s well ~sMog E~wards' counterpart, Miss Price .. The 
From the punst pomt of v1ew, a maJor work hke Under Mdkwoo~ fragile Polly Garter 1s beauufully depleted by Ann Dumas. Brad Schmtdt is 

should be presented to an audience in the full beauty of ~he l!lnguage m to be commen~ed for his ~ole as Mr. Pritchard. 
which it was written. Dylan Thomas had a wonderful g•ft With words. Also deservmg of menuon are Gre~ Hayes and Deb Raehl as the crazy 
"Under Milkwood" is an affirmation of that and deserves to be presented couple, Mr. and Mrs. Pugh. He tnes in vain to poison her and their 
as such without treating it as ifsome brilliant idea of the director will add a caricatures provide some good laughs. The costumes by Barb' Costin are 
necess.{ry touch that Dylan Thomas forgot. . . expertly done; and the e_ntire ca~t de~erves credit for the multiple roles 
Yet Director Weber could not pass ~p the temptation to unk_er. Befo_re played, .an.d th.e unobtrusiVe ~ay m wh1ch costume changes were effected, 

the play there is a clown greeting vanous members of the audu:nce while often w~thm v1ew of the audience. 
the other players are limbering up as though they are preparmg .for an ~appdy, th_ere are ~.o~e r~~eeming quali~ies to thisproduction. The text 
interpretive dance. The clown then moves to center stage ana whde her of Under Mdkwood ls bnlhant ~nd the ume and effort of many talented 
makeup is laboriously removed the _other players hold hands as they move people have been ~xpended.. It _Is si~ply unfortunate that the director 
in a circle around her. Very meanmgful! chose to gum up this work wuh gimmicks. 
~ 
Instead of one narrator Weber uses four which serves only to break up 

the verse and fragment the attention of the audien~e. At times! some of 
the narrators keep the microphones too close to their mouths wh1ch makes 


-~----------------------------~-------~-==-----::-::-=---=--=--~-­
~~ 
The Observer 
Rich get richer in annual NFL college draft 
Molarity 
7·00 -IF' I 6EI UP IN TeN HIMJTES I cAN SHOWER, DAf!O NJr> GET TO MY 9·oo 

The Daily Crossword 
NEW YORK (AP) -It's 
another case of the rich getting 
richer and the poor getting ... 
well, who's to say? 
The rich are the Los Angeles 
Rams, the second-best team in 
the National Football League 
(not by their record but by 
virtue of their trip to the Super 
Bowl) and the team with the 
most choices in this year's. 
college player draft. Barring 
trades, the Rams, selecting 
next-to-last, ahead of 
Pittsburgh, will make 16 picks 
in 12 rounds. 
Conversely, the San Fran­cisco 49ers, who shared with Detroit the league's worst record at 2-I 4 in 1979 and will be preceded in each round only by the Lions, will come away with only eight players in the 12 rounds, again presuming they don't make any late deals. 
Wheeling and dealing i8 an integral part of the draft. Franchises can be built with judicious selecting. Witness the-Steelers, unquestionably 
1:30-FINE ICANSr!LL 5J.IOt.JER #JD DR£55 QUICKL'I NVfJ GET-rtJ J1A66AR H4LL BEFORE 
g.oo 

© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-·NY News Synd Inc. All Rights Reserved 
TUESDAY APRIL 29 7pm-3am 

­
BUDWEISE1~t ­
/$1.00 

Tuesday, April 29, 1980 -page 8 
the worst ream in the league barely a decade ago. 
Few reams have prospered as. well as the Sreelers from the draft. Others, most notably George Allen's Washingron Redskins, dealt away a ~ortion of their futures for mstant gains, trading picks for vets. In Allen's case, the investment paid instant returns as the 'Skins became immediate con­renders, reaching the Super Bown on one occasion. But the combination of a paucit of picks and wholesale departures by aging players left a void in recent years. 
Which brings us to the Rams and the 49ers. 
Los Angeles has stockpiled four extra selections. Here's how: 
The Rams gave their second­round and fifth-round picks t.o Washington and received the 'Skins' third-round pick in the deal for safety-kick re-turner Eddie Brown. They got Wash­ington's second-round pick for 
· 7=5'0-I CAN STILL RUSHlOVER TrJ AA€6Afi: AN]) 
ACROSS 26 Nautical 45 Rrver of 8 Durocher Carved term g
Normandy Statute pillar 28 Lumbermans 47 Indian 10 Seized 
suddenly
6 Summon tool 48 Military 
11 Recluse
1 0 Bridge term 29 Beaten address 
12 Krnd ol
14 Masonic trail -49 Actress doorkeeper 30 Twosome Ursula acid ·5 Region 31 Severe 52 
Absolute 13 Cantaloupe !6 Alaska crrtic 54 Newspaper 21 People of 
Naples
minrng town 33 Emulate 50 Passenne 
22 Hold
17 Catkrn Durer biro rR Rrver 37 Skin ending 58 Prima donna 
counc11 frerghter 39 Modern 59 
Per 24 Gaprng rn 19 lnctrgo Persians 61 Arm bones amazement 
25 Naughty-·
20 Mrschrevous 40 Spanish 62 Welshmar's 22 Ott1ce surrealist name 26 Egyptian worker 41 Besides 63 Scottish lizard ..!~ Hrghest 42 Members of hillside 27 Coal or peak rn the the armed 64 Central wooC1 Pyrenees forces par. 32 Pav.n\J 24 Greek 44 Wire 65 Tear aparl stuff letter measure 66 Musica 34 Flower.n'>) group tropical 67 
O.estrue ..fe tree!'. irsects 35 Cut short 
36 Port city DOWN of Hawaii A•ncan 38 !-Ieath 
·age 43 Bndge bid OccasiOfl 46 Krng Sp. Grarn ware· 49 Vrper houses 50 Ingenuous 
4 Former 51 Large couch Russian 53 Girl's leader nickname 
5 Innocent 55 Scrutrnrze 6 Flightless 56 Cartoonrsl birds 57 Achreves 7 Bndge 59 Recede 
4129180 support 60 Parseghian 
TIPPECANOE PlACE RESTAURANT IS NOW HIRING RESTAURANT PERSONNEL full or part time:dav and ni~hf shifts 1 high wages: excellent benefits training:classroom and on the job cordial atmosphere 
FOOD WAlTERS AND WAITRESSES BUSBOYS/BUSGIRLS COCKTAll WAITRESSES DISHWASHERS BROILERCOOKS HOSTESSES BARTENDERS PREP COOKS MAINTENANCE MEN 
APPLYIN PERSON BETWEEN II:OOam &6:00pm MONDAY THRU S.A.TURDAY AT EOE-M/FTIPPECANOE PlACE 620 W:Washin~ton Ave South Bend, Ind... 
by Michael Molinelli 

8•03 -:I.M LA,TE",·I HIGHT 
guard Dan Nugent, go~ S~n Diego's second-round p1ck tn the deal for tight end Bob Klein, Oakland's third-round pick in the cornerback Monte Jackson trade, New England's fourth-round choice in the wide receiver Harold Jackson trade and Green Bay's fifth-round 
choice  in  the  deal that  sent  
center  Rick  Nuzum  to  the  
Packers.  

Now consider San Francisco, with eight fewer picks than the 
1 
••• SMC 
(basketball) and Holy Cross (Olymyic Week Champions). 
A brst-time award, entitled the Brother Larry Stewart Award, was given to Stewart for outstanding cor,tributions to Saint Mary's Athletics. 

Rams. The 49ers got one choice, in the second round from Detroit for defensive tackle Cleveland Elam. Bm the gave away five picks -in the second round to Buffalo for 0.]. Simpson, the seventh round to Cincinnati for cornerback Mel Morgan, the ninth round to Kansas City for safety Tim Gray, the lOth round to Pitts­burgh for safery Tony Dungy and the 11th round to Miami for cornerback Charles Cornelius. 
Baseball 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Yesterday's Games 
Chicago 4, St. Louis 2 Atlanta at San Diego, ppd., rain Only games scheduled 
Today's Games 

Montreal (Rogers 2-2) at Pittsburgh (Bibby 2-0), (n) Philadelphia (Lerch 0-2) at New York (Bomback 1-0), (n) Houston (Forsch 2-0) at Cincinnati (Leibrandt 1-1), (n) Chicago (Reuschel 2-1) at St. Louis (Martinez 1-1), (n) Atlanta (Alexander 0-1) at San Diego (Rasmussen 0-2), (n) Los Angeles (Goltz 1-2) at San Francisco (Montefusco 1-2), (n) 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Yesterday's Games 
Boston at Chicago, ppd., rain Kansas City at Toronto, ppd .. rain New York at Baltrmore, ppd . rain Seattle 6, Minnesota 4 
Oakland B. California 0 Today's Games 

Texas (Comer 0-2) at Detroit (Morris 3-1) Seattle (Bannister 2-0) at To.ronto (Jefferson 0-0), (rr) New York (Tiant 1-1) at Baltimore (McGregor 0-0), (n) Milwaukee (Travers 0·0) at Cleveland (Owchlnko 0-0), (n) Boston (Rainey 0·0) at Chicago (Dotson 2·1). (n) Oakland (Norris 2-0) at California (Tanana 1-1), (n) 
Hockey 
Stanley Cup Semifinals Tonight's Game~ 
Mrnnesota at Phi:ddelphia New York Islanders at Buffalo 
Interhall 
BASEBALL Championship Z~h,, V'· Dillon 4· I:·; 
1 (!1n<~ :·iold 



Match Notrr · ,,.. IVIM~ s 3 

No. 1-P" ->11 (SMC) ctef CinrJr Schuster b 1 : I) No. 2-lir ·'' (ND) del Maureen 
!, •

Frtzgerald 6· No. 3-Pe· \~alsh (NO)· det Maureen O'R: · .· 6 ti-4. 6-4 No. 4-C. · _,:::s (1110) uet Karen Srnrth 6-2, 6 No 5-Tin;, •dphan (ND) del. Carmel Maenza 4-6. 6·[1, !3-4 No. 6-Sherla Cronin (ND) del. Maureen O'Brian 6-4. 5-7, 7-5. 
Doubles 

No. 1-Coash/Fitzgerald (SMC) det. Schuster/Stephan 6-1, 6-4. lllo. 2-Smith/O'Brian (SMC)) del. Shukis/Walsh 7-5, S-2. No. 3-0'Bremsky/Walsh (NO) del. 0' Btian/Maenza 6-3, 7-5. 
Transaction~ 
FOOTBALL 

ST. LOUIS CARDINALS--Nullified last week's trade with the Kansas City Chiefs for Walter White, tight end because .White failed to report for a phy'slcal. 
SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS--Acquired Charles Young, tight end, and one of Los .Angeles' third-round and fourth-round draft picks In Tuesday's NFl draft for the 49ers third-round pick in the draft plus an undisclosed future choice. 

-----~-­
Tuesday, April29, 1980 -page 9 

The Observer 
ND hooters rally for overtime \\Tin 
by Gary Grassey Sports Wn'ter 

April showers and a 5-3 overtime win over Tri-State University brought the Notre Dame spring soccer season to an end ye~terday in the rain­drenched night cap of South Bend's Symphonic Soccer dou­bleheader at the Notre Dame 5radium. 
Trailing 3-1 with 27 minutes to play, the Irish put the pressure on Tri-State keeper Bert Johnson. A crossfield pass to Notre Dame's Mike Mai struck defender Ron Koelsch's hand and the Irish were awarded a penalty kick. Ed. O'Malley converted with 
26: 51 showing on the clock to cut the deficit to a goal. 
Notre Dame continued the surge (shots on goal read 21-5 in favor of the Irish on the day), but Johnson came up with some sprawling saves to maintain the visitors' slim lead. 
''They (Notre Dame) kept commg and coming,'' satd Tri-State coach Dennis Grace, a former assistant at Indiana University. "We played really well for about 70 minutes, but the rest of the game belonged to Notre Dame.'' 
A chip by Dannie McCurrie in front of the Tri-State net was juggled by Johnson, and after Joe Ciuni and Mike Mai missed on rebound attempts, Sami Kahale tied the score at 76:50. 
''None of us on the ·sidelines were worried,'' commented I­rish coach Rich Hunter. "We were controlling the game and we were very patient. I think our conditioning showed. We work all year long for a day like today." 
In the first of two non-sud­den-death overtimes Tri-State could not cross midfield, and the Irish took the opportunity to put the game away. Ciuni hit O'Malley streaking down the left side with a lead pass. From 20 yards out, the sopho­more from Massepequa, N.Y., blasted the ball high into the left corner for the game-win­net. 
Freshman Mike Sullivan net­ted his first-ever goal in an Irish uniform at 6:23 of the second overtime for an insur­ance tally. 
' 'This is the kind of thing we're gonna have to expect next year--tough teams and rough games,'' Hunter said. "We had some lapses on those first two goals, but we didn't ~ive up. We'll just have to lffiprove our concentration.'' 
Mike Azibi staked Tri-State to an early 2-0 lead with first half goals on defensive mis­cues. Kevin Lovejoy headed in the first Irish goal off a corner kick by Bill Murphy. 

Saint Mary's honors top athletes 
The Saint Mary's Athletic "Sportsmanship Award" while and Recreation Department freshman Patsy Coash was honored varsity, club and in-named the team's Most Valu­tramural athletes in an all -able. Coash was also singled sports banquet at the Saint out as Saint Mary's Most Mary~s dining hall last Valuable Athlete (overall). evening. Coash ~as al~o recognized as 
Jerry Dallessio, athletic dir-the Indiana Smgles champion ector and head basketball and the Doubles champion coach, presented Nancy along with partner Maureen Nowalk, the basketball team's Fitzge_rald. . only graduating senior, with a Louts Enyedy. received her fourth-year monogram award. !ourth-year monogram in fenc­"Belle of the Year" and third-mg from coach Greg Mueller. year monogram awards went to Enyedy was also named Saint Maureen O'Brien. Mary's "Scholar-Athlete." 
O'Brien and another Sharon Moore, who qualified Maureen O'Brien were award-for the U.S. nationals, was ed third year monograms in given a third-year monogram. tennis by coach Sandy Fry. Patty Meagher accepted Carmel Manza won the tennis third-year monograms in both 
Lacrosse team wins two 
The Notre Dame Lacrosse Club returned to the winning path with home :victories over Purdue University and the Det­roit Lacrosse Club during the An Tostal weekend. The Irish began celebrating by pounding the Detriot club 15-4 as nine different players produced goals. Playing in front of a much smaller crowd on Sunday the Irish continued their success by defeating Purdue 
11-6. 
The Irish team jumped to a 9-0 half-time lead over Detroit behind the flawless goaltending of AI Pinado. The Irish were led by junior mid-fielder Carl Lundblad who tallied four goals on the afternoon. Lundblad received solid support from linemate Danny Pace and attackmen Mike Caron and Steve Linehan as each scored two goals. Rounding out the scoring for•the Irish were Nick Gehring, Dan Charhur, Brett Jackson, Mike Lynch and Bob Dursin. 
On Sunday, the club's three top scorers -Nick Gehring, Lundblad, and Mike Norton ­paced the Irish past a motivated Purdue club. Lundblad com­pleted an excellent weekend by scoring three goals and an assist while Gehring added a hat trick and assist of his own. Norton earned three assists from nice goal-producing passes. Defenseman Dave Lewis and freshman midfielder Tracy Cotter each scored their first goals of the season. 
In the season scoring totals Gehring has 23 goals and 15 assists for 39 poims, Lundblad 
25. goals and 6 assists for 31 pomts ~nd Norton 10 goals and 17 assists for 27 points. The Irish, 8.-5, travel to East Lan­sing Wednesday for a game against Michigan State. In "B" team action on Saturday the Irish defeated Norther~ Illinois 5-1. 
[continued from page 12] 
second half of the Notre Dame track team to the Ball State Relays in Muncie, Ind. and came away happy with the results. ''Our guys ran very well in almost every event," proclaim­ed Kelly. 
The Irish racked up six places in Saturday's meet. Among these were a second place finish for Tom Bernier in the Open 400-meter intermedi­ate hurdle event and another runnerup spot for Jim Harring­ton in the javelin. ''.Bernier and Harrington pro­vided the two outstanding per­formances for us," says fifth­year assistant Kelly. Bernier ran the quarter-mile hurdles in 
53.0 flat, a time which qualifies him for the ICAAAA meet later on this year, while Harrington tossed the spear 184'4". 
The other Irish ribbon win­ners were Tim Twardzik who took second in the Invitational section of the 400-meter inter­mediate hurdles; Dan Callan, diving and field hockey. Ann Deitle, field hockey coach, also distributed a third-year rnono­gram to Kelly Ash and a 
fourth-year honor to Bonnie Keyes. Keyes was named the team's MVP while Nancy Lorenzini received the Most Improved honor. 
Softball awards went tQ Sue Nickels and Jan Clements in honor of their fourth-year as varsity players. Mary Beth Hosinski and Mary Bayless were named co-MVPs for the team. 
Assistant Athletic Director and volleyball Head Coach Erin Murphy singled out Marianne Diltz and Kathy Monahan as third-year squad members. Amy Terry was named the team's MVP while Peggy Pieschel was tapped as the Most Improved. Terry Walter~ received the Sports­manship Award. 
Interhall and intramural awards were given to: Regina (flag football), Southern Com­forts (volleyball), Terry Sparro (tennis), Debbie Moore (raquetball), Melissa McLean (backgammon), Cindy Schwenk 
[continth'd on page 8] 
... Relays 
who garnered a fifth in the 110 meter high hurdles at 1).9; and the two-mile relay team ofJim Slattery, Scott Satko, Keith Cooper, and Dean Jacob which finished fourth. 
Senior co-captain Perry Stow finished fifth in the/ole vault in what Kelly terme as one of the best efforts of the day. 
"Perry has been working hard all year long and things are just starting to fall into place for him," comments Kelly. "He jumped 15'6", which is his best this year, and barely missed sixteen feet,'' concluded Kelly. 
· Dave Bernards was denied a possible first in the 110-meter high hurdles because of a false start. 
''This is the first time Dave has ever false-started as far as I can remember. The worst part is that earlier this year he beat the kid who won, so he probably would have had a first," explained Kelly. · 
The Irish face Eastern Michigan in their first home meet on Saturday afternoon. 


Roadmaster ; : 
BAND .~.H"'riday May 2 
Vegetable Buddies, South BeD:.q · 
tlf:k~ts~.Ya!!~bl~ at:gi_v!! Ci~-l!.~c_9!d~RUfUS featuring 
·a1 Ohaka Kahn
spec1 ~guest~ rrhe Brothers Johnson 
This Saturdav Mav 3 
Notre Dame ACC tickets available at River City Records 
PA!!BAVIBS 
Wednesday May 7 
Morris Civic Auditorium, South Bend tickets on sale at River City Records : ... 
Saturday May·lo 
Tickets on sale at River City Records Fort Wayne Coliseum 
!OM CHAPINI 
SON SEALS BLUES 
~ ~ 
~ 
t . 
h 

-____ ___j 

Tuesday, April 29, 1980 -page 10 
ND netters·overcom.e Saint Mary's 
by Beth Huffman Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame baseball team. has been doing a 'lumber of thmgs well this spring, like hitting an impressive .325 as a team, or pitching a respectable But best of all, the Insh club has been winning, and winning and winning. 
Head Coach Tom Kelly's 
NO BENDIX
WI-I THEATRE
SMC CENTURY 
T H [AT R E CENTER 
__ UND~R­
MILKWOOD 
284-9111 
h~ gentle. humorou 
story of a day in'the life of a Welsh Village May 1,2,3 
$4.00 ($3.00 8pm 
ga~:~·"Voellinger, captain of 
Stu./ Fac./ Staff) 
jthe Irish, echoes Kelly's

•-----------.# praises 
of the team and ex-
SUNSHINE AND CELEBRATION PRESENT 
and S~ial Guest 
Off Broadway 
Tuesday Apri129 7:30pm 
Notre Dame A.C.C. Tickets: $8.50 and $7.50 on sale now . ·Jt the ACC Box Office and all usual ) ~·· ACC Ticket Outlet$ _ ___ _A 
22-7 squad is the first Irish team to break the 20-win 
'We have certainly played well to this point and can play with any team we come up against.' 
barrier since 1959 when Jake Kline steered the club to a 22-7 finish. With eight regular season games remaining, Notre Dame has a chance to break the all-time win record of 24, set way back in 1928. 
An even bigger goal for the Irish is a NCAA bid, but those aren't easY. to come by. 
"We still have to play well and finish strong to be consid­ered," says Kelly, who direct­ed the last Irish club to make the tournament (1970). "We have certainly played well to this point and can play with any team we come up a-plains that diversity has been the key to this team's success. 
''The whole team has been doing well," says Voellinger, ''but if I had to put my finger on it I would say that our hitting, defense and pitching fit together much better than in past years. In other seasons we would have a strong pitch­ing season and the hitting wouldn't click--but all three are working well. The ball players are better now than in the past, especially pitching.'' 
Voellinger has perhaps the best view of the Irish pitching from behind the plate as the starting catcher. 
"We have a new assistant this year," explains Voellinger, last year's RBI and homerun leader. "Coach (Larry) Gallo is now in charge of pitching, and he has done a super job whipping the pitchers into shape and making them live up to their potential. 
''The control of all the pitchers is especially above par. We don't have a pitcher that can pitch 95 miles-an-hour but what we do have are smart ball players who are working to get the ball over the plate.'' 
The pitching staff, which pitched four complete games in the six-win weekend crunch, leads the Irish team today against Bethel in a double­header on the Pilots' homefield at 1 p.m. A sweep for Notre Dame would tie that all-time win record. 
. . . Carter 
(continued from page 12) 
due, Michigan, Alabama, and Southern Cal would give good cause for an early retirement, but Carter looks at it a bit differently. "I think the tough schedule helps us because it means we have to get upt for every game, and we know that everyone else always gets up to play us." 
As for a prognosis of next season, the Arts and Letters major seems fairly optimistic. "I know our offensive line is basically young, but so far its done nothing but improve, and our defense really seems ready to play. I think we'll do nothing but bete:-uur r·xord. 
SoP ··ho'Y, Olle can't helf--but :;;nn~:· tha, ever-present :,· .:~ !or ~;. . . and believe that mit only w;ll the: Irish h<:~ve anoth.: b,mner ~eason, but so will this friendly and determined kid named Phil Carter. 

Coash's victory over Cindy •Stephan l-6. 4-6, hut Segal saw Schuster was the Belles' only improvement in the new singles triumph of the day. doubles pair. Freshman Linda Hoyer contin­"They hung 1Il there and put ued her sensational play with a up a good fight. . They're hard fought 6-2, 4-6, 6-4 win beginning to improve their over Saint Mary's Maureen court positioning and team­Fitzgerald at number-two work," said Segal. singles. Notre Dame captured Notre Dame. "··2 has finish­the remaining singles matches, ed their S~.>t ii1g se"son and will determining the winner of prepare tor regional play. Sunday's competition before ''The team is anxiously await­doubles play even began. ing the to11rnam~nt," Segal 
Segal commended the per­offered. "I fee! we stand a formance of Notre Dame's good chance of reaching the Peggy Walsh, who _played nationals." number-three singles for the 
first time. Walsh dropped the While the entire Saint first set to Maureen O'Brien Mary's sq_uad will not be 4-6. before winning 6-4, 6-4. competing tn regional play the 
The Irish did not fare as well Belles will have a contender in in doubles play, as Saint the tournament. Coash will be Mary's took two. of three a favorite in the competition doubles matches over the Irish, after winnins the Indiana both in straight sets. The singles champiOnship last fall Belles' number-one dt..e of and will compete with Coash and Fitzgerald defeated Fitzgerald in doubles play. Cindy Schuster and Tina 
Sports Briefs_----. 
Tickets on sale over summer 
As stated in a recently released directive from the ::>.:htetic department, Notre Dame/Saint Mary's students will be required to purchase football tickets starting next season. The process for purchasing student tickets will be as follows: 
On May 5, 1980, a package of ticket applications will be mailed to each student's home address. Included in the package will be a four-game season application for tickets to the Purdue, Michigan, Miami (Fla.) and Air Force football 
game& Cost of the package will be $24. Also included will 
be a separate application for the Army game which will be 

played the first dar. of fall break. The cost of that 
single-game ticket will be $6. 

Also included will be an application for season basketball 
and hockey tickets. The basketball application will cover the 
home games played while school is in session and the prices 
will be $32 for a lower area seat and $24 for a bleacher ucket. 
The hockey season ticket application will include the 15 
games played while school is in session. Cost of the hockey 
ticket will be $30. 
The deadline for football applications is set for June 20 

while basketball and hockey applications must be returned 
by August 15. Separate checks for each application are 
required. Seat assignments will, as in the past, be 
distributed in the fall. 
Springgame on Saturday 
The annual Blue-Gold intrasquad football game winding up Spring practice will be held in Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday, May 3 at 2:00/.m. Notre Dame and St. Mary's students will be admitte upon l>resentation of ID cards at gate fifteen only. General admtssion tickets for the/ublic are available at the ticket sales window, Athletic an Con­vocation Center, priced at $2.50 for adults, $1.00 for children 17 and under. Ttckets will also be available at the stadium the day of the game, priced at $3.50 for adults and $1.50 for children. Dates, spouses, parents, etc. must have tickets . No seats will be reserved. The game is sponsored annually by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. Joseph Valley and supports the club's scholarship fund which currently sustains sixteen students of this area at the university. 
Crew team reaches peak 
The Notre Dame men's crew reached its season peak at an opportune time--the finals of the Midwest Rowing Championships. A 13-boat field was narrowed to six finalists in three mornin~ heats with the first two finishers from each heat 9ualifymg for the finals. Notre Dame captured second 10 the first heat behind Kansas State, putting the Irish in the championship run. After a good start, Notre Dame was even tn the finals with two boats from Wisconsin. Two Purdue boats and Wichita State trailed the leaders by half a boat. At the 500-meter mark in the 2000-meter race Notre Dame had failen slightly behind the Wisconsin boats, but still held an erlge over t:he othe: three teams. The Irish experienced diffi·~vlties at approximately 800 meters, but sparked by a •t:~m-effort surge the boat finished third. In othe ;;.:es of •he day, Notre Dam, .-rew~ met with varying (~. ~ ···s of :,-:cess­the wome'.i s ltghtweight tour and the rt: · . JV ' ·~;1l took ::.c.::ond piaces while the novice boats ."•uth 1f. ·'.;; and women's eights and men's four, took f" -rth piau::~. This weekend the crew travels to Marier .. OhiP ~6r the M~d-America Collegiate Rowing Assvciar:on ,:_.J:.:.mpion­shtps. 
Maureen 0 'Rn.en ofSaint Mary's teamed up with Karen \mit/, to win a doubles victory over Notre Dame on Sunday. 1f'hoto by Dat'e Rumbach] 
by Kelly Sullivan Women's Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's number-one singles J'layer, Patty Coash, extende her winning streak to 14 straight matches Sunday, but her efforts were not to be matched by her teammates, as Notre Dame's women's tennis team returned to its winning form and defeated Saint Mary's 6-3. 
The intense rivalry between the ~o. neighboring schools matenaltzed on the court with four of the six singles m~tches going to three sets. 
''This. was good training for the regtonals,'' offered Irish CoachJory Segal. "We played very well, despite some ad­verse weather conditions.'' 

Baseball team has shot at win record 



·Classifieds 
Notices 
N.J. Club year-end bus Is now taking reservations. Call Dave at 1148, Chris at 1178 or Kevin at 1166 to reserve your seat. Last day for reservations is Friday May 2 
Typing Plus. Term papers, th,eses, dissertations. Light editing, ghost writing. Literary search, bibliograph­ies, genealogies. Job resume service. Sliding rate scale based on lead time. 
Special discounts on full .contracts for theses and dissertations. aardvark automatic solutions/ p.o .. box 1204 46624 phone (219) 289-6753. 
Professional Typing Service Any size job, accurate, prompt, dependable. Term papers, Reports, Manuscrlpsts. Barron Services 1408 Elwood South Band 289-7949 
Will do typing. Neat, Accurate Call 287-5162. Thank you. 
Guide Yourself In London, Hawaii, Mexico City!! Extensive itinerary describes what, when how to see like a native. Only $5 each 81us !.80 handling. Travelsearch, apartment 06, P.O. Box 335, Hermosa Beach, California 90254. Free Brochure. 
President Carter Notre Dame, SMC Re-election campaign meeting to be held In Lafortune Ballroom Tuesday, April 29th 7:00 P.M. For further Information call Plul Klingaman, 1866 evenings. 
Teh Church of Jesus Chdst of Latter Day Saints, "Are You Listening''. Bulla Shed. Wednesday, April 30th 7 pm Movie & Discussion & Refreshments. All 
Welcome 
Lost&Found 
Found: 1pair old keys in the fountain outside of Hayes-Healy. Claim at Observer Office. 
Lost: Gold ring with pear. Please call 7947 if found 
Lost • pair of aqua contacts In white case. If found please call 7471
------'-----­
Lost: suitcase ··In between the 
baseball field and the tennis courts. 
Lost on Saturday after the baseball 
game. Any Info call Keith 1745 
Lost: A three-strand sliver necklace with turquoise beads. Please call Tina at 277-0586 If found • Reward. 
Lost: Watch, woman's sliver digital Casto w/ blue face. Sat. 4/19 Reward. Call Anne F. 277-1587 after 10:00 pm 
Lost: Gold serpentine -link bracelet, Tues. 4122 Reward Call Anne F. 277-1587 after 10:00 pm 
Taken: Navy ? Powder Blue Down Coat from SM C Beeer Garden on 4/24/80. Please call Mark at 283· 8573 
Found In the N.D. post offocle, a pair of contact lenses in.a white case. Stop In and ask for Brother Thomas at the post office. 
Found: Man's watch near dorm construction sight Call Kevin 8953 
Lost: Blue & White golf umbrella on April 24 If found please call John at 1906 
Found. shirt at beach 4/26 after Raft Race. Call Sue at 2169
---L---------­
Dear Kathleen, 
Your lost Notre Dame Dinner Ring has been returned to the Lost & Found In the Ad. Bldg.
·----------­

Lost: Sliver ring with blue stone Friday In Grace Hall. If found call Michelle at 2117. Reward. 
Lost: Vivi tar Camera at Irish Wake. The film Is priceless! (Reward) Call Judy 1336 -the film holds priceless photos from two memorabld formals. , Please return the memories. 
For Rent 
Ugly Duckling Rent-A-Car from 17.95 a day and !.07 a,mile 255-2323 
Off campus housing 6 bedrooms etc. 291-1405 
Available now and for next fall ­attractive 3 br, 2 bath home -3 or 4· people -near Notre Dame call Harlan Humbarger or Kathleen Lathrop ­
• 289-6813-9 am to 5 pm. 
Work for me, live for free this summer 277-3604, 288-Q955 
Furnished ·houses or rooms for rent this summer, close to campus, very reasonable. 277-3604, 288-0955 
Furnished four bedroom house, cou­ple of blocks from campus, for next school year 277-3604 or 288-Q955 
Off Campus Housing 6 bedrooms (with locks) rented separately. Free laundry & kitchen superior rated. Available for summer & fall. 291­1405 
House $225 mo all included. N. Shore Garage. On bus. 233-1329 
Wanted 
Need riders to Columbus Ohio May 1st. Call Melanie 4822 (SMC) 
Wanted: Ride to Muncie, Indiana or Indianapolis, Fri. May 2nd. Please calllu Anne at 1312 
-~-------------­
Wanted Riders to L.A. area after commencement. Call Tom 8100 
s~;I;Q'fM"tiiesurrimer'?-Re'iiters 
desired for 3-5 bedroom house, very close to campus. If Interested, call Mark (8760), Don (8775), or Mr. Busby (287-7617) 
Furnished 3 bedroom house close to campus, for summer only very reason­able. Call 233-4425. 
Please!! Need ride to Dallas after 10th, Jini 1331 
·---------­
Need ride to Dallas for summer. Can leave afternoon, May 11. Call Mike, 3175. Thanks. 
--------·-------------­
Prof. Needs student to drive car from 
S.F. Bay area to N.D. end of August. 234-()405 
Need ride to Tampa, Fla. or vicinity after finals 4512 
Summer Resident Camp Staff needed. 
Mid-June to early August. All positions open: Counselors, Water­front Nurse, Cook. Contact: Girl Scouts of Singing Sands, Inc., 1635 North Ironwood r., South Bend, IN 46635 or call (219) 277-Q900 
Riders needed: Any point between here and Omaha. Leave on Sunday 11; Call Chris 4643 
Need ride to Houston, Tx. or any­where near for summer. Share usual. George 3598 
Need ride to Boston after graduation. Share expenses, 1 suitcase only John 3588 
Overseas Jobs-Summer/Year round. 
Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, Etc. ll fields, $500-$1,200 monthly. expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free information Write 1-JC Box 52-14 Corona Del Mar, Cal. 92625 
I need 3 graduation tickets. Please call Irene -4262 
Wanted to rent Apartment: help... 2 female college seniors need small apartment for summer. Reasonable, Write Alm/Leavitt, 402 S. Hender­son, Apt. 11, Bloomington, IN 47406 or phone 219/778-4186 
I have hotel reservations. Trade for graduation tickets Tony 233-6208 
Wanted to buy a standard size acoustic guitar with nylon strings. Call 3470 
Need ride to Wichita, KS. after finals. Call Jim 3171 
Wanted: Oe graduation ticket. Call Doug 287-2793. ,. 
Wanted: Ride to Twin cities after commencement. Will share ex­penses. Call Andy 3174 
Wanted: Riders to Canton, 0H. Leave Fri. May 2, afternoon, Return Sunday noon or evening. Call Joe 3598 
Wanted: Ride to Who concert on May 3 Call Bill 4641 or Bob 3128 
Tennis Instructors wanted: Excellent high paying summer 1 jobs (clubs, resorts, camps) available through WashlnQton Tennis Service~ for stu­dents With tennis playing or teaching experience. Call Mr. Covyeau at 
' (301) 654-3770. 
N.D. Football Programs, any years, state prices. Bob Wiggs, 9730 E. Troy Indianapolis, IN. 46239 
Women's model 10 speed bike 287­4336 
For Sale 
Hand-made pottery: ceramic casse-.. role dishes, goblets, mugs, etc. Call george 111761 
For Sale: Alvarez 6 string acoustic. 
Call 6369 
Why buy new when used will do ­Super Acto-291-6770 Domestic ­Foreign · Truck 
For sale a pair of Fisher XP-95 speakers $215 Rick 1857 
Spring Clearance Sale at Pandora's Books. All news books are 30% off and used books are 1/2 off listprice of 2 for 1 regular used price. All types of paperback books available 937 South Bend ave. Ph 233·2342 
Brand New -Never Been used racquetball racquets for sle -reg. $38.95 now only $20.00 Call randy , 1146 
1977 Camara Silver 28,000 miles. automatic on console, small V-8 gets 18 mpg city, stereo 8-track, $3,600; 1978 LeMans, maroon, 20,000 miles. automatic small V-6 gets 21 mpg city, AM-Fm stereo-front and rear speak­ers, $3200. Both are in excellent condition. Call Lewis at 1234 week­days or 288-2961 evenings and week­ends. 
'72 Audi for sale runs $200 -233-6208 
Gulistea American Oriental rug. Like new · Porch Swing call 233-1738 
Tickets 
I need graduation tickets. Will pay a reasonable sum. Super scalpers need not call Bob 287-2793 
Help Stop a Blood Feud ! ! Need graduation tickets! Big Bucks! Call Joe 1621 
Need 1graduatiooon ticket. Will pay $$$. Call Mary Beth 7160 
Desperately need tickets for gradua· tion Lou 3171 
·---------------­
Help! I need many graduation tickets. Will pay SSS Jeff 8764 
'I need tix for The Who 233-6068 
Mafia Godfather wants to see me graduate. If I don't gat him tickets I won't graduate. Help!!! Mick 3212­graduation tickets 
Personals 
N.J. Club year-end bus Is now taking . reservations. Call Dave at 1148, Chris at 1178 or Kevin at 1166 to reserve your seat. Last day for reservations If Friday May 2 
Attention: All junior executives are to report to 145 Lewis today to give Mary Schneider Birthday kisses. (3 piece suits are absolutely necessary.] 
PAL. The one and only pretty lady M.H. 
Hey Gary(Aiia Jimmy Connors, or was it Gary Metzer),
I hope you liked my lines as much as I liked yours! You do have a huge ego, though. I must say, you really are different. See you at the next Irish Wake (or in the dining hall when I get to South Quad). 
You know who. 
Steve Laham Rose are red violets are blue We couldn't have wished for a better slave than you! But now we know your price!! 
Budd &Wall 
Swines & Thieves, Greg, Eric, Holy Cross Soccer team and coaches, and friends in Holy Cross: Good Luck with Finals and have a great summer! Love, Susette 
P.S. Swines ·watch out for Frank· 
To my staff: Rick Freedman, Mike Monk, Deirdre, John Smith-my teach­er, John McGrath-who gave me my start, Marilyn and Mike. Thank you all for enabling me to survive those early morning hours. I have enjoyed it tremendously and shall miss you. 
Love, Teri 
To the Luge Queen­tiere's to midnight luging, liquid days, and San Diego! Happy 20th birthday to the best liar on campus: Karen Schneider Love, All 
All classified ads must be.received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the 1ssue m which the ad IS run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday thrOUQh Friday•. 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All class1f1eds must be pre-pa1d, either m person or through the mail. 
To the Lewis Losers -all in all, it's been a great year! Mary Clone ·wild CHEG! Pangborn will never be the same. Second floor is home away from home. Smelly Elly-Too bad you're leaving, but this summer, ChitOVfn beware! V-My pal. We're Depres­sants in crime. Curse on all Runst and Pucks. Thanks for helping in some "I go crazy" times. You're the greatest. And Smarg-You've put up with a lot (not just the mess). Thanks a million, roomie! Finally, Masked Marauders, I love you all Seward N.D.! Now you're messing with a .... Little Bigoted Pollock 
My dear Sorin friends, the old 215 
crowd, 
The last In a series of personnals 
for the 1979-1980 season. Twenty 
days left!! I 
You Know who I 
The Notre Dame Club of Grand Rapids Invites al Students from G.R. to a "Happy Hour" In Dillon's basement at 8:30pm on May 2nd 
B* IJUSTWANTEDTO SAY AGAIN THAT "I LOVE YOU" JAS 
Applications for positions on SMC'S STUDENT ACTIVITY PLANNING BOARD are now available in the Student Activities office In LeMans • SAPB deadline April 30. 
Call41·4219 and wish Mona a Happy Birthday. Ask about her red satin sheets. 
Mona, 
Happy Birthday to the sweetest 
Palestinian in Mishawaka. Have a 
great day. 
G.A.S.S. 
Kathy Reddington, Fine Performance Saturday Art Jackman 
John &Sue Break a leq this weekend in "Life In the Theatre' 
S.S., . Do ducks eat Gold fish M.H. 
Applications for Treasurer for the Augusta Hall Council will be accepted May 1-May 4 (midnight) Drop appli· cations off at Room 441 Regina North 
Desperately need graduation tickets for loved ones. Pay bucks! 1803 
Walao It's been a good year!! 
A breath of fresh air arrived April 29 1960 in LaCrosse Wis! More appreci· ated now, Mary Narcelle, Happy Birthday' 
Slyhive and the Family Stoned: 
Couldn't let you leave believing a lie. 
you are NOT the most boring people I 
know' 
Love and Raw Sex 
P.S. Veg, it isn't over for you yet! 
Andy Rauh's left love handle is oigger 
than his right one. 
(That was for my memo board--! 
always forgive AFTER I get even.) 
Oly, 
Just out of curiosity, did any of you 
realize thai it was pouring rain 
Sunday?' (You are a derelict.) 
-------~-------­
Greg Hedges, I think you are the sexiest hunk of a man on this campus. Until Saturday. 
Uncle JilT,, 
My mind's not worth $3.19. Keep it. 
Just give it back. 
Mindless Cheryl 
Kathy Reddington, Fine performance Saturday. Art Jackma1 
Hey Swell guy: 
Fruit of the Looms, a clean sink and 
broken parietals-Thanks for being a 
good domer. 
Love ya, 
The Stripper 
Need ride to Philly. Can leave May 10. Call 6446. 
-----~---------­
Tom Sheriqa0, 
When do I get my commissions? 
Luann, 
Happy Birthday roomie'! It's been a 
great second semester' 
love ya, 
MariannP 
Desperately need Graduation tickets for loved ones. Pay bucks! 1803. 
How's that for service Cindy??? 
Happy birthday to my roommate-to­be, the sweetest baritone in the band 
Pa, Looking forward to pizza, beer, and the red sox. Kay, John, Mike, Danny 
Doc and Mrs. T. Does this make up for those missed letters and postcards. See you soon. Love, Danny 
Danny, Mary, & Mike: 
Good luck on your last paper of the year! Danny, your present Is clean (ranted"G", even!) Mary, I hear you're treating for breakfast' And Mike, stick it out to the end. It really lsn 't that slow, and you know we all love you! 
"The Boss" 
P.S. M.A.K., like I told you-just tell Mike to call and make and apr:vint ment' 
K.A.F., 
Hang tough 19 more days an<; it'll be all over. But watch out, I might 
"hop  out"  right  in  front  of  you  
anytime.  
Anyway good  luck  on  finals  and  

have a terrific summer. So long for now. 
Graduates! Now's the time for that spring haircut. Men and women welcome. Professional layer cuts (feathered), with free blow dry styling' only $7 and down. Close to campus. Call Kim at Armando's 277-0615. Satisfaction Guaranteed 1 
Applications for Treasurer on the Augusta Hall Council will be accepted May 1-May 4 (midnight). Drop resumes off in Room 441 .Regina North. 
Congratulations Meg Breslin and Susie Ecklekamp) We're all proud of you!' 
... UMOC 
tc:ontinuedfrom page 5] 
Gerry "Junior Tt10mas" Lovoi 19 Mike Barnes 16 Joe Gladue 16 Mike Grant 16 John Hankerd 16 Bill Hochul 16 Frank Jackmak 16 John Mcl;<elvey 16 Chet Miesel 16 Kevin Young 16 Dave Balkan 15 Bill Biehl 15 Celia Boyle 15 Shelia Brown 15 Nadine Chapman 15 Jean Fallon 15 Ann Gales 15 Marty Garvin 15 DanGieason 15 Donna Pawlikawski 15 Saint Mary's College 15 Mark Kirasich 14 Bill Pollack 14 Ken SetJastian 14 Jerry Anderson 13 Mark Lynch 12 Earl Rix 13 Claire Brand 12 George Kashrba 11 Todd Bruni 10 Marc Cassella 10 Bill Elliot 10 Randy Hack 10 Mary B. Heffernan 1 0 Forrest Hobbs 1o Ralph Jaccodine 10 Dave LeBerge 10 Aileen Lavin -~ 0 Jim "Moon" Malooly 10 Vic MilltJr 10 Kevin Mullane 10 Mike Paton 10 Dave Roberts 1 G Tina Ross 10 Bill Ryan 10 Paul "Pusshead" Smith 10 Rob Verfar1h 10 Kathy Merra 9 Rudolph Alexander Fernandez I 8 Andy Greco 7 Tim Pryblowski 7 Paul Rogalski 7 Jef!Mihalik 6 Kathe Callahan 5 Kathy Juba 5 Michael Kunesh 5 Mark Leonard 5 AI Leverone 5 Chris Lyons 5 Paul MOrtenson 5 Dick O'Malley 5 Ore~ 5 Joe Manuel Pillari S Linda Radxer ''5 Martin Scanlon 5 Steve Spand 5 Chuck Tasch 5 Mr. &Mrs. Andy Tomasch 5 Bro. V. (Stanford Hall Rector) 5 Paul Gales · 5 
67 people got less than 5 votes 
Total Votes Cast 164,964 

_I 

--------------~------------­
Tuesday, April 29, 1980 -page 12 
~J>orts 

Carter campaigns for starting spot 

by Michael Olenik Sports Wn'ter 
From his first big wide ~rio to his final "So long, man' , Phil Carter's amicability and ~enuine good nature is amaz­mgly obvious. A narive of Tacoma, Washington, Carter seems to generate some kind of humour or craziness wherever he is, excert on the field. It is on the grid1ron that Phil Carter becomes a man of intensity, a man with a serious purpose. 
Coming from a family of four older brothers and a sister, one would expect Carter to be following in someone's shoes on the gridiron. Oddly enough, as the freshman says, "My family really has a musical background, so I don't know how I ended up in football." Football was not Carter's only tnterest while at Woodrow Wil­son High School, where he also excelled at both track and wrestling. 
It was Carter's football ex­ploits that. caused all the como­1ion with college recruiters however, as he was eagerly sought by most of the top institutions throughout the country. Logically, many offers 
Theismann visits grid drills 
by Cra1g Chva/ Sports Wnter 
Joe Theismann, Notre Danw's all-time leader in total offens(' yards, passing yards, wuchd(lwn passes and COf'!li?le­tion percentages, was a VISitor ar Monday's practice ... 
Spring Football '80 
Thcismann, who quarterbacked 1he 1970 Irish to a 9-1 season and a vic•orv over Texas in the '71 Cotton Bowl while earning firsr-team All-American hmwrs, gave th<" '80 squad a pep talk ... l:uer he wol'ked with ·JUarterbarb Tim Koegel and (Ireg Knafelc after practice ... ,1fter fin a fly wresting the \Xt'ashing10n Redskins' starting toh from Hilly Kilm<"r, rhc·ismann established himself .1s one of the NFL's top quar­
backers--] oe Rudzinski; defen­terbacks in 1~79. 
sive backs--Dave Duerson ... 
The Irish worked on more sophomore guard Tom Thayer
third-and-long situations 
earned the Strongman AwardMonday, with the defense hold­as the squad's strongest player, ing the upper hand ... assistant while Broccoletti presented
coach Ron Toman, calling the plays, utilized more passing Exemplary Lifter Awards to 
Barry Young and Neil Maune.
plays than in the past, and the defensive backs responded with Head coach Dan Devine and several excellent hits. 
his assistants will send the Pete Broccoletti, who designs squad through its paces again and supervises Notre Dame's Tuesday before taking Wed­off-season weight-trainin~ pro­nesday off. .. the team will prac­wmners
gram, announced the tice on Thursday and Friday of the Father Lange Strength before Saturday's ~Oth Annual Awards ... the awards, present Blue-Gold Game in Notre Dame 
Stadium.
ed to the player at each position came from the local powers, · Thus far this spring, Caner expecially the California and has been the most talked about northwest schools. back, showing good durability 

"Most of the California and some impressive break­schools wanted me as a defen­away speed. sive back, but Washington re­"I feel like I'm in a lot better cruited me the hardest ... and as shape now, especially after my a running back.'' When asked winter workouts," says the about the Big 10, Carter says Flanner resident. "I also feel they recruited him too, but, "I much more confident running turned them down pretty the plays since I'm a season early." older, and also a lot more 
Most would then ask how relaxed than last fall." Carter decided to bring his "Yeah, I feel the pressure, 5-11, 190-pound person to but all the backs on the team Notre Dame instead of a more are pretty close, and we all convenient UCLA or Washing­understand whoever really does ton. "I just felt that Notre the best will get to play.'' Dame had the most to offer To most folks, the thought of me,'' explains Carter. "I knocking heads wrrh line­wanted to see if I could really backers from the likes of Pur­work and earn a degree without 
[continued on page 10] 
someone just g1ving it to me." 

Irish track team takes places at Drake, Ball State Relays 
by Matt Huffman Sports Wn'ter 
In a full weekend of action the Notre Dame Track team came away with mixed results. Coach Piane led the elite of the squad to the highly competitive Drake Relays while Asst. Coach Ed Kelly took the re­mainder ofthe team to the Ball State Relays. "Splitting the tC"'am like this is good because it gives a chance to many kids who rarely get to run,'' commented Piane. 
At the Drake event the Irish were able to record three places, a major accomplish­ment when competing in the tough university division. Chuck Aragon was able to notch a sixth place finish in the 800 meter run by coming in at 
1:49.6. The distance medley relay team of Pete Burger, Jacques Eady, Jay Miranda and Kevin Kenny finished at 9:46, which gave them a fifth place ribbon. 

The biggest excitement of 
the day for the Irish came m 
the two-mile relay. 

·'There were fourteen reams 
in thrs race, which means there 
were"' 28 runners grouped to­
gether for the first exchange of 
the baton," said Piane. 
"Somehow Tim(MacAuley)got 
tripped up and went down. ' 
MacAuley recovered after tak­ing the baton from lead-off runner Pete Bur~er to run a 
1:56 leg. W1th half-mile standouts Chuck Aragon and Jay Miranda running the final two legs, the Irish were still able to manage a fifth place finish. Their time was a 7:28 mark, the best for the spring. 
"OvC"'rall we didn't do too bad," said Piane. "We still have a long season ahead, and we La!l't look bac~. Hopefully we will get a lot of student participation for our home meet on Saturday." 
Asst. Coach Ed Kelly led the 
{continued on page 9] 
who improved the most in size · and strength during the winter, are in honor of the late Fr. Lange, who established Notre 

lisch selected Bookstore MVP
Dame's first weight-training program in 1929 ... this year's winners were: quarterbacks, Rusty Lisch of the champion receivers and specialty players 
Defending Chumps; was --Mike Boushka; offensive 
named the most valuable play­backs--Jim Stone; offensive er of the 1980 Bookstore Bas­linemen--Mark Fischer; defen­ketball tournament. Tourna­sive linemen--Don Kidd; line­ment commissioner, Rob Si­
mari, announced Lisch's selec­tion immediately following yes­terday's final game.
New wrestling coach named 
Bob Keenahan, a freshman on the Much Later W.E.B. 
b)' Beth Huffman 
squad was named Mr. Book­
!:J'ports Editor 
store by Simari. The award is .annually given to the playerBmthn .Joseph Bruno, C.S.C., has been named Notre who best represents the spirit'.mw's varsi11 "resrling coach for next season, according to of excellence and enjoyment. : hletic oftilt.tls. 
that Bookstore Basketball tries ·'We felt he hest filled the requirements we need for next to promote. Keenahan is the . ar,'' said Cnl ) ohn Stephens, associate athletic director. 
first rookie ever to win the 
\\'e need a '''mhination wrestling and weightlifting coach, award . 
.nd he has ('Xperience in both areas. We really did our Bill Myler of US, was the .•rncwork and thts was the man we wanted.'' 
recipient of the Iron Man Bruno, who in his 1') years as wrestling coach at Saint Award. Myler gained Book­rancis High School in Mountain View, Calif., has had only store notariety when he repeat­·w losing season. was screened by a panel of four men. 
edly threw his body all over the 'ft•phens, Edward Krause, Roger Valdiserri and Joseph asphalt in US's upset overtime 'Brien) and then interviewed by Fr. Edmund Joyce. 
win over BUITS in the ''Sweet 
·'Brother Bruno was involved with the wrestling squad at 16" round. Honorable men­
·:anford," said O'Brien, assistant athletic director, "so he tions for the award included 
.ts collegiate experience. The program at Stanford was at Lou Pagley of P.F. and the ne ume a varsity sport, but it has been de-evaluated to club Flyers and Steve Notaro of -tatus. It is again in the process of becoming a varsity sport incredible Edibles. 
wd I'm sure he has helped the move." 
Tim "Gunner" Zanni was 
Bruno has been involved with various wrestling clinics and named the Hoosier Award win­camps, including the Olymprc training camp. ner. Zanni, who played with the ... Explorers, shot the baH 112 times in only four games for an average of 28 shots a game. It also should be noted that Zanni connected on 43 of his attempts for a 40-percent average. 
Bill Hanzlik of the Defending Chumps, picked up the Dave Huffman Golden Hatchet A· ward for meritorious fouls a­bove and beyond the call of duty. 

Tim Andree delighted the crowd in the slam-dunk compe­tition. Andree won the con­test, defeating runner-up To1y Hunter by a slim margin. 
All-Bookstore Team 
First Team: P.F. and the Flyers Paul Flood Head over HeelsBill Copeland Much Later W .E.B 
Kevin Dix Defending Chumps Dan Short Born to RunPaul McMenamin 
Second Team: Don Cleary SMC. .. Tom Sudkamp Defending Chumps Skip Mark us Mike Petrykowski Strappamasquon Bill Stapleton Irish Guards III 
All-Devine Team: Third Team: 

Greg Knafelc Strappamasquon Pete Holohan StrappamasquonBo Ellis Classified Nads Rusty Lisch Defending Chumps
Mark Davis Hill's Angels

Bill Myler Chris Stone Jayne Kennedy's ...
us 

Dave Mitchell Jayne Kennedy's ...
Curt Bailey The Assassins The AssassinsDan Carey Thea and the HM 's Bob Crable 

·' ---· 




