---~-~--------~---­
-~-----~­
• • • The Boss -page 8 

VOL. XV, NO. 51· 
an independent srudent newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1980
...................... 

Election roundup 
Reagan prepares for transition 

WASHINGTON (AP) ­President-elect Ronald Reagan took command yesterday in a conservative dominion that will stretch from the White House to a new Republican Senate, his lieutenants vowing a wholesale housecleaning of officeholders installed by the Democrats. 
President Carter, the incum­beny overwhelmingly repu­diated by the voters in Tuesday's election, retreated to Camp David, Md., saying he needed time to be alone and think. 
Carter said he would work for a smooth transition from his one­term administration to the one Reagan will begin on Jan. 20, when he is inaugurated 40th president of the United States. 

·At nearly 70, he will be the oldest man ever to take that oath of office. 
As the nationwide tally in a fow-turnout election neared co­mpletion, the dimensions of the Reagan landslide -and man­date-were in the hers. 
With 99 percent of the pre­cincts counted, Reagan had 43 million votes, or 51 percent; Carter 34.7 million or 41 per­

. cent; independent John B. An­derson 5.5 million or 7 percent, and Libertarian Ed Clark 1 
Taut with tension, fraught with frustration, Roman Sysyn 's percent. 
That translated to 483 elec­

sculptured man strains hand and head toward heaven. 
[Photo by john Macor] toral votes for Reagan, who led for six in Arkansas, the only state 
&>uth Bend Police force faces o-c crime ; 
• 

mcreases 'round-the -clock street patrols 
Editor's N ole: Although violentcrimes have decreased as the weather gets colder, C!f!-c/Jmpm crime on the wholeis stttl painfully evident to Notre Dr1me studeuts living in South Bend In the following three-part series, The Observer examines the problems of the Northeast Neighborhood from different viewpoints--the South Bend city administration, the South Bend Police Department and the local restdents, both permanent and transi­ent. Today: part three, the police department. 
• By Rich Fischer 
For all of its problems, the South Bend Police Department manages to function with effici­ency. The police point out that Notre Dame students receive

t 
much concentrated service that they do not statistically deserve. Yet the off-campus area has the second highest burglary rate of the city districts, and the police recognize this problem. 
Chief Thompson, head of the force, pointed out that the area is a natural environment for bur­glars because of the regularity and predictability of empty apartments. T~e police try to counter this through the use of highly visible police patrols coupled with unobtrusive house surveillance. 
The police say they are frustrated by student apathy to the problem, except to castigate the police efforts in solving these crimes. Why was the off-campus civilian members of the depart­crime meeting so poorly attend­ment had to be let go outright. ed, they ask. Crime prevention is The • police have adjusted an important part of the main­partially by going from two­tenance of law and order, and a :person patrols to single beats. 

part which cannot function 
[continued on page 5]

ithout the active participation 
f the everyday citizen, on whom 
still too close to call. Carter had 
only 49. Reagan needed only 270 
electoral votes to win. 
The former California gover­
nor swept every one of the 10 
biggest states, winning even in 
such solid Democratic territory 
as Massachusetts. Even Carter's 
native South, save his home state 
of Georgia, turned against him. 
Reagan captured 43 states; 
Carter won only Georgia, West 
Virginia, Rhode Island, Mary­
land, Minnesota, Hawaii and the 
District of Columbia. 
Carried on Reagan's coattails t5he campaign drive mobilized by "New Right" conservative organizations, Republicans seized Senate control for the first time in a quarter-century. 
They turned out ofoffice eight Democratic senators, among them such liberal stalwarts as George McGovern, Frank Church, Warren G. Magnuson, Gaylord Nelson and Birch Bayh. 
Republicans had won 52 Sen­»ate seats and led for another in Georgia. When the 97th Con­gress takes office onJan. 3, they will run the show for the first time since 1955. That was a net gain ofat least 11 seats, probably 12, for the Republicans. 
The GOP scored a startling 33­seat gain in the House, where Democrats nonetheless held onto their majority. Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr. of Mas­sachusetts called the election a Democratic disaster. 
The new House will be made up of 243 Democrats and 192 Republicans. 
Only 52.3 percent of eligible Americans cast ballots on Tues­day, the lowest turnout in 32 years. The total vote of more than 84 million was a record, but it represented a decline in the percentage of those who cast ballots from the 54.4 percent of 1976. 
Reagan was at his Pacific Palisades home, conferring with vice president-elect George Bush, who flew in from Houston 
Aides ir. Los Angeles said Reagan already was at work on transition planning, and would announce at a news conft~rence tomcrrow the team that will revresent him in arranging the change in government. Carter said his chief of staff~ Jack Watson, would manage the tran­sition for the outgoing Democratic administration. 
Edwin Meese. chief ofstaff for Reagan, said the new admin­istration would replace all ap­pointed agency heads in Wash­ington. A new administration always installs its own appoin­tees, but usually with a holdover or two for the sake of unity and continuity, particularly in the case of people or positions con­sidered non-partisan. 
"Out ofhumanitarian concern for all the time and effort they've put in recently, we think the only decent thing to do is to allow them a well-deserved rest," Meese said in announcing that this turnover will be totaL 
He also said Reagan would not be naming Cabinet members before late November or early December. He said Reagan aides would screen potential Cabinet nominees, and submit the names of three to five top prospects for each job to the president-elect. 
Reagan planned to take a 1a­day respite at his Santa Barbara, Calif., ranch before he comes to Washington. 
Carter told reporters in the Oval Office that he is at ease, plans to write his memoirs and will help Reagan in every way he can, now and after the new administration takes office. 
[continued on page 6] 

orne elementary responsibilty
f
ests. 
' In regard to muggings, the police urge students to employ more common sense when they 

World reacts to landslide 
go out. They advise students to always walk in groups of five or six at night, and to exercise some By The Associated Press judgment in their drinking. Muggers are less likely to attack a Around the globe, Ronald Reagan's election group of students than they are landslide came largely as a surprise that left some one alone, especially if the group concerned about his conservative policies, others is reasonably sober. pleased that a new leadership would take over in 
South Bend contains over Washington and still others unsure what it means. 117,000 people. In 1972, the In world money markets, the value ofthe dollar police force for this township went up and ·stock markets in some West consisted of 262 sworn officers European capitals experienced rallies, apparentlyaugmented by 20 civilian station in the belief Reagan will turn the U.S. economy
workers to give a total manpower around. 
of over 282 persons. Today, this Firecrackers exploded in the streets ofTaiwan,figure stands at 239 men, and seat ofthe Nationalist Chinese government which personnel shortage has become favors Reagan's "two-Chinas" policy. In a state­
another of the South Bend ment, the Nationalist Foreign Ministry in TaipeiPolice Department's many 
said it anticipated new ties with the United States.
problems, which already include Those ties had grown cold when President Carterinadequate equipment and sal­set up diplomatic relations with Peking in 1979,aries. 
after breaking them with Taiwan. 
Since 1972, there has been an 
The government in Peking on the mainlandannual attrition from the police 
expressed guarded hope the concessions it had
department of four or five men 
won from the United States previously on thewho, due to limitations in the Taiwan issue would not be set aside by the Reagan
police budget, have not been ·administration.
replaced. In addition, the 20 

Iran indicated the Republican victory would have no effect on the issues in the hostage crisis but would delay its resolution. 
"It is up to the United States to accept or reject (the conditions set down last week by the Iranian parliament)," said an official 'in the office ofPrime Minister Mohammad Ali Rajai in Tehran. "It doesn't make any difference to us who the president is." 
However, Radio Tehan quoted the deputy speaker of Iran's parliament, Hojatoleslam Moosavi, as saying: "because Carter was already in office, we would have reached a solution faster if he were re-elected. With Reagan's victory this will need a long time." 
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of 6ritain and Chancellor Helmut Schmidt of West Germany, in warm messages ofcongratulations to Reagan, said they hoped for meetings with the president-elect. 
President Valery Giscard d'Estaing of France said he hoped to establish "the dialogue which is natural between our two countries, friends and allies always." 
[continued on page 5) 



News Brief! 
by The Obsert~er and The AISuciated Press 
President Carterdeclared yesterday that his landslide defeat at the hands of Ronald Reagan was a result of voter frustration over the long ordeal ofthe American hostages in Iran and other issues and "was not an aversion to me." Carter appeared relaxed and spoke without bitterness to a small group of reporters in the Oval Office the day after losing the White House by an overwhelming margin. Afterward, he left for his Camp David, Md., retreat to "go off by myself and think for awhile." In the interview, Carter said he plans to write his memoirs and to give President-elect Reagan public support after he takes over the White House onJan. 20. He did not rule 
•>Ut 
seeking the presidency again, saying, "That's a question I have not even dreamed about." Carter confirmed that he 1.:arned Monday night that his private polls showed he would lose his quest for re-election decisively. "The last few hours before the election took place, the dominant news story of the '10stages not coming home immediately, mobs on the streets tin I nui), just kind of reconfirmed American concernabout our .ost dominance in world affairs," Carter said. "I don't think there was any indication that there was a personal turn against ·11e. It was not an aversion to me. It was just a frustration. The 

•
atural tendency is to vote against incumbents."-AP 


Without goine: in~o detail here are the highlights of some of tn'e elect10ns for Senate, lfouse and governorships. Brown, Gray and White won. Green and Black lost. . Pickle and Pepper won. Bacon, Rice and T4rnipseed lost. Kindness and Pease won. Hope lost. Winners: Hart, Roe, Crane and Fish. Losers: Drake, Beaver, Canary. Fox, Wolff and Woodcock. Fountain and Fields won. So did Glenn, Stump, Rose and Boggs. Lake, Bowers, Brooks, N all, Hill and Moore all lost. Lee won. Grant lost. 
Chappell won. Church lost. Ireland and Holland won. So did Frost and Snow. A winner was Early. A loser was Furst. 
Winners were Young, Frank and Nobel. Losers were Strong, Stark, Swank and Sogge. Icenhour won, Dixon lost. So it went on Election Day. -AP 
Iran's religious leader, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, yesterday rejected a "peace now" offer from Iraq. He declared "many of our youths have died in the war, but this is for Islam." The 80-year-old patriarch ofiran's Islamic revolution ordered his generals to continue the war "until the infidels (Iraqis) are defeated." Hisspeech in Tehran to a visiting group of Moslem clergy came a day after Iraqi· President Saddam Hussein declared he was ready to "withdraw our forces as from tomorrow ifIran unequivocally rec~gnized our full national rights." The broadcast was monitored in Beirut, Lebanon. Hussein told the Iraqi Parliament he would push his territorial claims beyond the Shatt al-Arab estuary, the disputed border waterway used by both Iran and Iraq to ship oil into the Persian Gulf, ifKhomeini chose to fight on. "Conquest confers new rights," said Hussein. "The longer a nation stays in a territory, the more rights it gains. Khomeini must realize that war creates additional rights over and above the pre-war rights." Both nations reported heavy casualti~s in land and aircombat as I rag pushed on the northern and eastern gates oflran's major oil ref1ning city of Abadan on the eastern coast of Shatt al-Arab. Capture ofAbadan appears to be the main obj.ective ofthe Iraqi offensive. It is the last Iranian stronghold on the Shatt al-Arab' s eastern coast, which Hussein's regime is claiming as part ofiraq. Half of the 120-mile estuary, Iraq's only outlet to the Persian Gulf, belonged to Iran under a 1975 border treaty that Hussein abrogated one week before the war broke out Sept. 22. -AP 
A Sit-inthat began as a protest against Ronald Reagan, but drifted into support of several campus causes, was ended bst night when campus police hauled dissidents from the 1 Jniversitv of California administration building. About 70 ~ tudents ~nd nonstudents had been threatened with arrest if · hev did not leave voluntarily. When they made no move, ~a~ pus officers began removing them. Some of the protesters .vent limp and were dragged down the stairwell they had xcupied for five hours. Even then, the protesters were told they could avoid arrest if they would just walk away. But 52 persons were taken into custody. Inside the building, the demonstrators chanted defiance, but a reporter said he observed no violence. Originally about 150 demonstrators, at first reported to be protesting a possible draft and angered by Reagan's presidential election, moved into the campus ad­ministration building. But after two earlier arrests,. some dissidents started drifting away. The building occupation began. at about 2 p.m. as a campus rally "to build an educational movement" against Reagan, according to a rally activist. Speakers exhorted the crowd to "make sure Reagan can do as ~ittle as possible to hinder human rights in the country." A eporter inside the building with the dissidents said that, among 
•ther things, they were protestingthe campus ROTC military 
raining office and university support of government-spon­.;ored nuclear weapons research, and were supporting campus child care and Third World studies. He said some of the demonstrators were passing out Communist literature. -/AP 
Partlv cloudy todaywithhighsinthemid 50s. Mostly c1oudy tonight, with lows around 40. Mostly cloudy tomorrow, highs around 60. 
• 

Thursday, November 6, 1980-page 2 
Inside Thursday 
Comedy is not pretty 
About two years ago, onan NBC comedy special 
just before a commercial, a sketch ended and then 
the words, "President Ronald Reagan" appeared 
on the screen. A voice-over then intoned, ' 
"President Ronald Reagan. Think about it" The 
studio audience roared with laughter. 
Look who's laughing now. A landslide. As this is 
being written, the final results are not in and many 
races are still undecided, but here are some final 
car.1paign thoughts in 'the wake of election night 
1980. A landslide .... 
WasJohn Anderson a spoiler forJimmy Carter? 
We think not. Reagan's victory was so resounding 
that even if every Anderson voter had gone for 
Carter, the only thing spoiled would have been the 
networks' hopes for prime-time projections. As it 
was, an ABC-TV exit poll showed that only 49 
percent of the Anderson voters would have voted 
for Carter, with 3 7 percent for Reagan. The other 
14 percent? Maybe they'd have stayed home.... 
Speaking of the networks, they're always fun to 
watch when all three are going at it at once. NBC­
TV, very anxious to be first with The Nt:ws, 
decided not to wait, but to speed up its projection 
process until they had Reagan up to 270, and then 
had it on the air by 8:15. ABC and CBS, more 
cautious in states they simply were not sure of, 
took longer to project Reagan over the magic 
number, but it was by then so elementary that 
Carter conceded even before they had decided he 
lost.... · 
Liberals all over the country not only took it on the chin, some are saying they got it in the back too. Birch Bayh is one ofthose, and it's not hard to see his point. In the final days before Tuesday, it seemed like every special-interest group with a bundle of pamphlets descended on the Hoosier state, each one of them denouncing Bayh as immoral and immoderate. A slew of furious denials and other press releases reached our desk on Monday, claiming that Bayh was mis­represented, but the initial damage had already been done. 
Additionally, The Indianapolis Star, which is owned by a close relative ofDan Quayle, ran a pair of heavily anti-Bayh editorials over the weekend, and Bayh again claimed that his voting record was just plain mis-reported. From the evidence he presented in his rebuttals, it appears Bayh is in the right, but do the voters that were swayed over the weekend know that? ... 
Bayh was hardly the only liberal to be felled Tuesday night. The so-called "doves" of the Senate were also thumped, most notably George McGovern and Frank Church. Church was Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Com­mittee, and McGovern, in an emotional con­cession speech, reminded supporters that he helped bring an end to the Vietnam War. Also dumped was senior Democrat Warren Magnuson, who was in Washington before Harry Truman. "Tin soldiers and Nixon's coming.... " 
We were most· surprised at the defeat ofJohtJ Brademas. Although some were offended by his supposed arrogance, we feel his overall record of constituent service made him deserving of reelec­tion. For 22 years, apparently most ofthe residents 
r-The_Ohs.erY-er_ 






Perserverance, patience and serendipity mark the clay creations of Old Field House reg­ulars. [Photo by john Macor] 
~-­
The Observer 


OC Break-ins persist 
by Laura L. Larimore Senior Staff Reporter 
Another in a continuing series 
of off-campus vandalisms occur­
red Saturday night at the resid­
ence of Brian Wilcox and John 
Paulik, 920 N. Lawrence. 
Personal possessions valued at 
$5000 were stolen, including a 
$3000 Dolby stereo system. 
Remarkably, the house was 
equipped with a light-sound 
burglar alarm system, window 
locks, and dead bolts on all 
doors. Entry was gained through 
demolition of the front door, 
although no axe marks were 
apparent. 
Wilcox returned home at ap­proximately 1:30 a.m. Saturday night to find the house tho­roughly ransacked. The burglar alarm was still ringing; the thieves had not bothered to disconnect or steal the system. 
I terns stolen, besides the stereo system, which featured a reel-to-reel tape recorder, in­cluded a color TV with a home video attachment, a shotgun out of a closet,· a camera with a telephoto lens, a dock-radio, an electric guitar, a calculator, electronics equipment, and hand tools. 
"They even took my electric shaver," Wilcox said. Additional articles have been discovered missing by Wilcox and Paulik each day since the crime. 
Wilcox contacted South Bend Police immediately after sur­veying the damage. They arrived 30 minutes later and took fingerprints of the burglar alarm and fragments of the door. Wilcox provided the officers with a serial number list of the articles stolen. 

The police were appreciative, but expressed little hope for recovery. "Most of these jobs go house-to-house," an officer ex­plained. This means that stolen goods are sold prior to the actual crime, hampering detection of the thieves. 
'They even took my electric shaver.' 

The thoroughness of the job and the time required to move the stolen goods to a vehicle led Wilcox and Paulik to the con­clusion that the thieves must have known exactly what they were doing. The students estim­ated that at least ten trips by a strong man would have been necessary to transport the art­icles out of the house. "A group ofbig and strong men must have done it," Wilcox and Paulik commented. 
The house itself is not in the so-called student district and is the only student residence in the neighborhood. A street light shines in front. "Everyone must have been asleep," Wilcox not­ed. Previous false soundings of the alarm had prompted neigh­bors to contact police. 
''I'm willing to bet it happened· just a few minutes before I got home," Wilcox said. The alarm 
works on 14-minute cycles and 
had begun a new cycle when he 
entered the house. 

"I lived off-campus last year, in the worst part of town and never had anything stolen. I think there are a limited few who are causing this wave of off-campus bur­glaries," Wilcox added. 
Both Wilcox and Paulik are 
fifth-year students at Notre 
Dame. They have resided at this 
location since last May, and will 
graduate this spring. 

"I won't buy anything else of any value before I leave South Bend," Wilcox said, primarily to 
discourage further vandal at­tacks. He was also the victim ofa motorcycle theft this summer from the Aerospace Engineering building parking lot during daylight hours, which received little action from authorities. 
Reagan's election delays release of hostages , Iran says 
By The As_rociated Press 
Ronald Reagan's election will 
delay the release of the 52 
American hostages held in Iran 
but will not change the condi­
tions for freeing them, Iranian 
officials said yesterday. 
The spiritual adviser to the 
militants holding the hostages, 
deputy parliament speaker 
Hojatoleslam Moosavi 
Khoeniha, was quoted by Tehran 
Radio as saying in an interview 
with Greek television: 
"because (President) Carter was already in office, we would have reached a solution faster if he were re-elected. With Reagan's victory this will need a long time. I think Carter's policy has failed in the United States and this has no effect on the hostage issue." 
Prime Minister Mohammad Ali Rajai as well as Khoeniha said in interviews with the Iranian news agency Pars that the e ection of Reagan would have no effect on Iran or on its conditions for release of the hostages, Tehran Radio reported. 
Khoeniha was quoted as saying the hostages will be put on trial if the United States does not act on Iran's conditions for releasing them. Khoeniha headed the committee which drafted the conditions, approved Sunday by the Majlis, the Iranian Parlia­ment. 
In Washington, State Department spokesman John Trattner said yesterday the United States was "definitely amenable" to face-to-face negotiations on terms for release of the hostages. 
On Tuesday, the State Department said the Carter administration will move "expeditiously" "deliberately and with care" in responding to the conditions. There is no indication when a response will be made. 
The conditions: the United States must unfreeze Iranian assets held in American banks, return the wealth ofthe late Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, drop lawsuits against Iran and pledge non-interference in Iran's affairs. Yesterday was the hostages' 368th day in captivity. 
"The conditions for release of the hostages (were) passed hy the Majlis which has to do with our country," Rajai was quoted by 

Tehran Radio as saying. "We 
don't care who is ruling in the 
U.S. government. These con­ditions were passed by the Majlis and approved by the Imam (Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini) and we will carry them out." 
An aide to Rajai said the Iranian government had not yet taken custody of the hostages from the militants who seized them Nov. 4, 1979, possibly because the nrisoners are in scattered locations. The aide, contacted by telephone from Beirut, Lebanon, identified him­self only as Mr. Aziz. 
Earlier this week, the militants offered to turn responsibility for the hostages over to the Iranian government. 
The aide said the hostages had been moved to different places in Iran after the aborted U.S. military attempt i.n April to rescue them. "They are not in one special place, but in different places," he said, adding he did . not know where they were being held. 
Whether it's business or pleasure, Avis can get you going with a well-maintained car, great rates and SUP.er "We try harder" service. All cars come with a full tank of gas-you pay only for the gas you use. It's the only way to go-with Avis! Avis f~atures GM cars like the Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme. 
Michiana Regional Airport 
234_1024 

C 1-A.... R11nC A C. .,......, IM.. A.... lind We lry fWdllf • South Bend, IN 
---------~--------------------~----------~-----------------------. 
. 

Thursday, November 6 1980-page 3 
THE MUSIC BOX 120 W. Mishawaka Ave. Mish., IN (256-5440) 

Lots to see 


-~--··---~-~-----~-------~-------:--~ 
... 

The Observer 
Thursday, November 6, 1980-page 4 
Iran-Iraq 



Neutrality hints at aggression 

By Richard Falk 
Pacific News Service 

EDITOR'S NOTE: One of the princzpallaws governing inter­national relations--that no na­tion shall condone mzlitary aggression against another-­seems to have been forgotten in the case ofIraq's invasion of Iran, an aggression which no maior state has condemned. Richard Falk, a renowned ex­pert on international law, views this fact as a possible prelude to Amen'ca 's own use of un­sanctioned force in the Middle East. Falk is professor of international law and practice at Pn'nceton University and a.. member of the editorial board· of Foreign Policy magazine. 
. The Iraq-Iran war may well prove to be a turning point in modern international relations. For the first time since World War I, major aggression by one country against another has been overlooked by all major states--if not actually en­couraged. 
Iraq's surprise attack on Iran 

has not been condemned in any major government circles out­side of Teheran as a violation of the United Nations Charter or as a fundamental breach of international law. 
Such a pattern of ac­quiescence to trans-national aggression is of great signi­ficance. The United States, in particular has consistently emphasized its opposition to the unilateral use of force to resolve international conflict. There may be grey areas within the concept of ag­gression, such as minor border disputes that sometimes grow "hot", but when one country uses its military forces to launch an all-out attack on another, there is no serious doubt that aggression has been committed. 

It is helpful to recall that .the United States shed Amencan blood in Korea (1950-53) and Vietnam (1962-7 3), allegedly to protect countries allied to us 
that  were  victims of aggres­ 
sion.  
Perhaps,  more  significantly,  

the United States in 1956 opposed the aggressive use of force by its closest allies, England and France, and sided with the victim state, Egypt, whose leader, Abdul Gamel Nasser, had antagonized the Eisenhower Administration by nationalization of the Suez Canal and moves toward close relations with Moscow. Despite this diplomatic setting, the United States stood behind Nasser's demand that the in­vading forces be withdrawn from Egyptian territory without Egypt giving anything in re­turn. 
More recently, the United States has stuck by Pol Pot's claims to govern Cambodia because his bloody regime was the victim of Vietnamese armed force. Other elements are present, expecially '_'the China card" wnich mchnes policy toward support for China's friends and away from Soviet friends, but the norm­ative peg--the justifyin~ rule of conduct--was opposttion to Vietnamese ''aggression. ' ' 
By proclaiming neutrality and opting for a stance of non­involvement in the Iran-Iraq war, the United States, along with the Soviet Union, also 

UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS M.B.A 
' 

All Majors and Fields Invited Our representative will be present on your campus for the Graduate Schools Career Day to answer questions about our curriculum, admissions, financial aid, and career opportunities in the fol1owing management 
fields:  
Health Administration Finance Marketing General Management Accounting  Public and NonProfit Human Resources Economics Management Science Policy  

Monday, November 10 Contact the Placement Bureau Room 213 for Details 
repudiates a very solid body of international law that has been built up over the past century. The Versailles Treaty put burdens, by way of repar­ations, on the Germa~ people as a whole: a puntshment imposed for allegedly initiating aggressive war. The Nuren­burg War Crimes trials, in fact, considered aggression the key crime that emcompassed all others. These principles were then embodied in the United Nations Charter as its corner­stone. 
These rules against aggres­sion have been manipulated by both superpowers in a number of instances. Various forms of intervention have occurred in the internal affairs of foreign states, but until now, the right to engage in naked aggressiOn has never been condoned. As recently as a few months ago, President Carter was eloquently indignant about the Soviet aggression against Afghanistan. 
~hy, then has Iraqi aggres­sion been · overlooked al­together? The obvious answer is that every relevant govern­ment, including our own, has an incentive to destroy the Islamic revolution of Ayatollah Khomeini. The United States, in particular, locked for months in a frustrating encounter with Teheran over the fate of the American hostages, was in no position to side with Iran. 
More generally, the radical­ism of the Iranian revolution is a threat to the stability of all governments in the region, expecially as Saddam Hussein's minority regime is opposed by a Shi'ite majority receptive to Khomeini's leader­ship. 
Perhaps it is possible then, to account for this unique re­sponse to Iraqi aggressiOn as a special case, reflecting Iran's. unusual degree of isolation in the international community. Surely Khomeini's inter­national unpopularity is a factor, but it is not the whole story. The United States has been moving increasingly, since the all of the Shah toward claiming for itself a unilateral right to use force to safeguard the oil life line of the west. 

Such  a  claim  underlies  the  
announced  function  of  the  
Rapid Deployment Force.  In  

other words, even the United States--for so long the great champion of outlawing ag­gresston--seems to be pre­paring the ground for its own future aggressive use of force. 


.., -­


_______________..,....___________________ 
---~ 
The Observer 

Thursday, November 6, 1980-page 5 
• • • Police
---------------------------------------------------9 

[continued from page I) 
This compensation has had several incidental advantages, and experience has shown this method to be more efficient than the traditional two-person patrols in providing thorough police coverage and promoting inter-cooperation among the officers. 
There is some relief in sight for the overworked officers, how­ever. The city has approved and the department just finished the screening of applicants for 11 patrolman positions. Chosen in the next few weeks, these 11 people (mostly minorities) will 
.train in the station for six !months, and after being success­fully reviewed, be sent to the academy for 14 weeks of intens­ive training. After they are graduated from the academy, they will be posted to the South Bend Police Department proper. 
This addition to the depart­ment will not totally alleviate the problem of underpatrolled streets, but it is a partial solution. In any case, the increased man­power will probably not be visi­ble to Notre Dame students. This is not due to police negligence. but rather to the fact that we already receive much more than our percentage of police coverage. 
Specifically. police protection in the northeast district is both extensive and methodical. There are always two cars in the district. During ·the daylight hours. one of these cars is unmarked, and devotes its time to cruising the streets watching for burglaries, while the regular district black­and-white handles the routine calls. At night, this extra 

car concentrates on providing protective surveillance of the students on the streets, especial­ly those journeying home from the bars. The police also provide specialized services just for the students. These include placing three detectives in the off-cam­.pus area, on foot, during home football games. The department also has an overtime program called 'Project ABLE', which places three ad­ditional officers on the street during the evening hours. On the weekend, this supplementary force is inflated to eight men with the addition of an under­cover decoy team. Another problem that affects the entire police force is wages. For a change, both administra­tion and line agree that the police are underpaid for the work they do. The third problem, inadequate equipment, is mainly evidenced in the patrol cars. In order to promote fuel conservation, Mayor Parent last year replaced the department's eight cylinder cars with the current six cylinder models. An unfortunate "conse­quence of this action is the new­found inability of the police to outrun many of the cars in South Bend today in single pursuit. Although problems are evi­dent in the police department they primarily result from a lack of manpower due to lack of money. Police point to this problem. in addition to the problem of student responsibil­ty, as factors that give the im­pression they may be less than efficient in carrying out their responsibilities in the off-cam­pus area. 
. World 

[continued from page lJ 
Other West Europeans, however, expressed misgivings about Reagan's campaign pledge to scrap the SALT II nuclear arms limitation treaty with the Soviet Union and negotiate another one. 
The Kremlin's initial reaction came in a dispatch ofthe official Soviet news agency Tass, indicating a willingness to work with the Reagan administra­tion. The Soviet Union, Tass said, "has always stood for normalization and development of Soviet-American relations on the basis ofpeaceful
•

coexistence." 
President Anwar Sadat of Egypt and Prime Minister Menachem Begin oflsrael congratulated Reagan in statements issued separately in their capitals. 
Mahmoud Labady, spokesman for the Palestinian Liberation Organization, called Reagan "a friend of Israel" and predicted his presidency "will increase tension in the area by supporting Israel's expansionist policy." 

AND POP JU5T A5Keo HIM IF HE'D LIKE A ..... .
fiE~ COMIN6 TO DINNER TO TRY 
ALL THESE WEIRD "101 WAYS WITH l..JVER"RECIPESP 
KING OF BEERS!!' • ANHEUSER BUSCH INC • ST LQUIS 

--· -_ __..... 

The Observer 

November 6, 1980 -page 6 
• • • Reagan 
CEL sponsors DC seminar, plans campus commission 
By Sheila Shunick will be expected to attend several 
preparatory meetings before 

The Center for Experiential spring break and also to write a Learning will be sponsoring a reflection paper following the Social Concerns Seminar in seminar.­Washington D.C. from March The idea to have the Social 14-21, 1981. Any sophomore or Concerns Seminar sprung from a junior from Notre Dame or St. meeting inJu ly ofthis year where Mary's who is planning to live on Fr. Don McNeill spoke with the campus in a residence hall during Alumni Club of Washington the 1981-82 academic year is D.C. Since that time, Jan Corey, eligible to participate. Tom Behney, and Sister Carolyn 
• One credit hour will be given Burgholzer have put much time for participation in the week and effort into making the idea long seminar. Students involved for the program become a 
..... r ..~..,..,..~ 

I \ 
I, 
I 
l ! 
The Franciscans 
want young men to 
live this challenging
tradition. 



justice education programs and events. Applications will be available today through next Thursday at


United Limo, Inc. 
either the Student Activities Office, LaFortune, or the Center

Travel United Limo To/From Chica~o O'Hare Airport 
for Experiential Learning (Ill0 East, Memorial Library.) All applications are due by 4 p.m.
Fare ..... $22.00 


Friday, November 14. The cost
Deliver to your airline at O'Hare Airport 
of the program has not yet been
Round Trip .......... $39.00 

O'Hare pick-up at Lower Level Carson Restaurant 
determined. 

Save over 50% on Round Trip To and From O'Hare 


New Schedule: Senior Class Jeans Formal NOW LEAVING ND BUS SHELTER At Pardner's Saloon 

UNITED 
LIMO

l INC. 
I ·• H~ r.4ciUI\ILP 
MISHAWA~ A 
\If,,, tJIIt'hiJ/11/IIJII/(1/1/(/II/\(/{1/111, '"1/il/1 ·~I lft~·l:
~ Plta'l' mal..l· n·,l'natiun' !~ huur' in ;Hh.tnn ''" ahuul 'Pl•dall·harh-r rah·' 
r Call United Limo, Inc. (219)255-.3068 
OFFICE,PICK-UP Bittersweet & McKinley, Big Bear Restaurant, Town & Country Center, POINTS: Notre Dome Bus Shelter, Mlchiana Regional Airport 
(
. 
reality. 

It is hoped that the seminar will "provide educational oppor­tunities in Washington, D.C. related to specific socio-political issues of current and future interest to the participants" as well as provide the opportunity for participants to "meet with resource persons from church­related groups who have experi­ence in the political process Gentlemen: representing concerns related to The Franciscan Friars in Mishawaka social justice." Participants will also have the opportunity to 

Ta:nczs 
invite you to spend a weekend (Nov. 
meetwith Notre Dame alumni in

21-23) with them to learn more about 
the Washington D.C. area.

their way of living the tradition of St. 
Following the seminar, those 

Francis. who participate will be expected to help develop a Social Concerns Commission in the
For you reservation, contact Friar 
residence halls for the 1981-82

Richard or Friar William. 
St. Anthony Novitiate school year. One student from each hall may participate. In this
1316 W. Dragon Trail 
way, each residence hall will

Mishawaka, IN 46544 
become more aware of and in­

(219) 255-2442 
volved in social awareness and 

James Abdnor of South Dakota, replacing McGovern; state At­torney General Slade Gorton of Washington, to succeed Mag­nuson; former Rep. Robert Kasten of Wisconsin over Nelson. 
Republicans also ousted one­term Democrats in Iowa, New Hampshire and North Carolina, and captured seats in Alabama, Florida and Alaska where the incumbents had lost primary elections. 
The takeover means that Re­publicans, not Democrats, will be chairmen of the Senate com­mittees in the 97th Congress. It makes Sen. Howard H. BakerJr. of Tennessee the incoming maj­ority leader. 
The upheaval in the House was deep, but not enough to undo the Democratic majoritv. 
Republicans also gained gov­ernorships in four states, and wound up in command of 23 statehouses, the most they have held in a decade. 
O'Meara remembers Sobocinski 
Dr. Boleslaw Sobocinski, re­tired University philosophy professor and founder of The \l"otre Dame Journal of Formal Logic, died -Sunday in South dend, at the age of 74. Sobocinski joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1956 and received the rank of full professor in 1961. A specialist in symbolic logic, he founded the quarterly journal in 1960 and served as its editor for 19 years. In that time the Journal became one of the University's major scholarlv assets and earned a prestigi~us international reputa­tion. 
"We at the University are deeply saddened by the loss of our friend and colleague," said Professc..,r Timothy O'Meara, provost, who added that Sobocinski directed doctoral dissertations of many students in mathematics and philosophy. "Boleslaw not only enriched the lives of Notre Dame students and faculty but he also labored with great dedication to produce a scholarly journal of which the University is indeed proud. He and his accomp~ishments have brought the name of Notre Dame to library shelves through­out the world." 
[continued from page 1] 
Then Carter went to Camp David, saying "I really need to go off by myself and think for a while." 
He said he believes the troub­led economy, the Iranian hos­tage situation and allegations of impropriety against members of his official family all had con­tributed to his defeat. 
There was no response from the administration to the hos­tage release demands the Iranian parliament set forth on Sunday; Carter had called them a positive basis for a possible settlement. 
Meese said he hoped Reagan representatives would be added to the administration task force overseeing efforts to free the 52 Americans hostages who had been held in Iran for a year and day. 
The shift ofpower in Congress was startling. Among the Republican 
senators-elect: Rep. Steve Symms of Idaho, who beat Church; Rep. Dan Quayle of Indiana, elected over Bayh; Rep. 


---------------------. ---·--­


Editorials 
Thursday, November 6, 1980-page 7 


P.O. Box 
Cheerleaders  
-deserve praise  
Dear Editor, The cheerleaders need commended. There are two reasons  to be why I  

make this statement: First, be­cause they are doing a good job. They put in their 5 to 10 hours a week of practice, they're skillful, and they show enthusiasm. But frankly, all of these are to be expected. The second reason is not only not to be expected, but I feel it needs to be explained. 
The University charters planes for the football team, coaches, cheerleaders, etc., to help cut down expenses. Logical, right? Earlier this year, United Airlines changed the size of the plane to be used for four of the team's charter's. The team still fits on the plane, so no problem, right? Wrong. For you see, though the team has no problem, the cheerleaders have no room. It's 

might therefore receive more 
support than permission to se11 Murphy errs 
pom-poms to raise money. Or 
Dear Edttor, 

maybe they'll let the cheeleaders 
Concerning James Murphy's

walk to USC if they can't afford piece in The Obsen•er "Liberalism in America not dead yet," a few . to drive (the fact is they will fly 
observations: 1.) Mistaking

there and to Alabama-it's too 
Scholastic for a professional

embarrassing fnr No. 1 Notre 
magazine is indeed complimentary.

Dame to be on national T.V. and 
however since we published articles 

not have any cheerleaders at the 
advocating all the major candidates 
game.) 

it is not quite accurate to describe it The fact that the squad is as another National Rel't·ew. If the responsible for making all its president of the ND/SMC Young Democrats is dissatisfied with the 
hotel reservations, paying for its 
content of the October Scholastic. 

transportation and receives no 
we would welcome him to present

financial heir whatsoever seems 
his views just as we welcome 

to imply that the University cares contributions from all members of 
to have no affiliation with a the ND/SMC community.£.) It is a 
little confusing for those of us who

group ofstudents that represents 
consider ourselves neither Iibcral nor 

them every week, whether 
conservative to understand Mr. 

nationally or at home. But, who Murphy's remarks concerning the 
cares about that-the football two. Evidently conservatives arc 
team won and N.D. is numher I. people who hate the poor, want to 
It's just a matter of getting your advance their own position regard­
priorities straight. less ofwhat happens to others, and of 
course stomp on any minority.

Gene Barra 
Liberals on the other hand, arc 

reasonable to say that the simple solution would have been to book passage on another flight. The University had an even simpler solution-let the cheerleaders find their own way to the games. Now, in case I lost anyone, I don't mean the games at Notre Dame Stadium. I mean the ones in Arizona, NewJersey, Atlanta, etc. 
For some reason the cheer­leaders just don't seem to have the resources to be able to fly to each of these games (no big alumni grants for them!). So the next best thing is wheels. In other words, while the students on campus were celebrating the football team's new No. 1 status, the cheerleaders were looking forward to a fourteen hour drive to cap offtheir week-end. And, of course, the University makes no effort to pay for this form of transportation either. 
Need I remind the high echelons of the administration that the cheerleaders do indeed represent our University and 
Doonesbury 

Garry Trudeau 

1HOSt CI4HV /f)(../J/OAN5/ THeY'lL 8fi!l;AI<. ~IEAIU~y TIME. ~MII<C.. I 8eTrEI?. GO lP 

people who help the needy. solve all the problems. but alas like all other martyrs. are crucified on election day. 
Now that the rhetoric is over I would invite Mr. Murphy to look at the facts. Coming from a declining Eastern city I have a very deep interest in solving the problems of the disadvantaged and the JX)Or. I have also had the opportunity to work for the government in these areas. I have come to believe that more than anything else. the government owes every man not only an equal oportunity. and a decent standard or living. hut hi~ dignity and hope for the future. Thi~ may sound naive, hut I would invite anyone who has worked with pcopll' living below the poverty line to den) it. 
, The government alone cannot get the job done. In many ways it only exacerbates the problem. Every year we spend more than $20.000 on government programs and services for every man woman and child living below the poverty line. To say that these people enjoy a standard of living equivalent to someone earning more than $20.000 ignores reality. 
The answer lies in jobs. Real jobs. Jobs where people can maintain their dignity and hold on to the hope that they can better their condition. In 1962 President John Kennedy initiated a tax cut 200% larger than the much-maligned Kemp-Roth plan. It resulted in more jobs. more revenue for government programs. and a lower inflation rate. President Carter's own tax cut incidentally is not alarmingly different than Kemp­Roth. In fact. as I'm sure Mr. Murphy knows. if anything it is more weighted toward businesses than individuals. Yet neither of these plans is really revolutionary since the only real cfcct they will have is that they will offset the large increase in tax money due to inflation. 
Those calling themselves con­servative or "'neoconservative" also arc calling for revitalizing depressed inner city areas by giving businesses tax incentives to invest there. Is this truly anti-humanitarian? In the mid­1960's such a plan was adopted for the Bedford-Stuyvesant area in Brooklyn. When ·it was initiated it was called everything from reaction­ary to radical. Yet it was enormously successful. More successful in fact than the government programs that precccdcd it. Was this a conserv­ative plan? Mr. Murphy will un­doubtedly be surprised to learn tl"lat it was initiated by the junior Scnato1 from New York by the name of Robert Kennedy. 3.) Isn't It time for all ofus concerned with bettering our society to stop blabbering about conservatives and liberals, and other such slogans and conccntrare our efforts on meeting the enormou<o challenges that we face. It would be hypocritical for someone represent· ing such a fine tradition as the Democratic party to act otherwise. 
Dan. Moore 

Editor\· note: Dan Moore is a Copy Editor Q/ Scholastic. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editr;r-in-Chief ....... : .. Paul Mullaney Sj10rt.r t."ditM ............ Bcth H uflma n ,Hat~aging Editor ............. 1\tark Ru~t Fc·attm:.r F..dlior ........... ,\t(;lly Woultt: 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Fditorial.r Editor ......... ,\tih: Onufrak /'hrJ!fJ h"rlitr;r ...............John M a cor University ofNmre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does not ~ecessanly 
Seni(Jr Copy F..ditor . ........ I.ynn<: Dak-y
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news IS reported Hurim-rr Mm111.1.:tr ......... (;reg Hedges
Ernutive Nt-u'.r Editor .... Tom Jackman 
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represenr the opinion _of a Crmtmllc-r ................... .Jim Ruuu 
Ntu'r Ed!lr,r . ............. Pam Degnan
majority of the ,f:ditorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are th_e v1ews Arlurtiri!IJ: ,\1a11t1Kc:r .......... J\lark Ellis of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and s,wc r.".n:cutil't' l~ditor .... Margit: Bras~il r.'irculatirm Mtmttgcr ....... Reth Hackett the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, IS encouraged. S,\1C Nt·ws h"ditor ......... Marv Leavitt Pmductirm M.:mtlgcr ..... . john McGrath 
~ 


,. ~ \ lf"'eatures 
\ Thursday, November 6, 1980-page 8 
\ 
·I 
\ 

Springsteen rocks again! 
Responding to critics who said "Crush on You" is a rushing, upbeat Darkness on the Edge of Town was too rocker with every guitar cliche in the dark, Bruce Springteen said, "we've book, but Springsteen's feverish shout got a lot oflighter stuffin the can, butit and insistent pace capture a great deal just wasn't the time." With the release of the genuine exuberance that of The River, Springsteen apparently doesn't always translate so well onto feels the time is now. Combined with vinyl. "You Can Look (But You Better the rest ofhis catalog, The Rivergives us Not Touch)" is a double-timed rave-up the complete Springsteen, capturing powered by Max Weinberg's manic for the first time on record the late 50s­drumming, making this another early 60s rock 'n' roll facet of rocker designed to be a live standout, Springsteen which makes his live per­even if it's not as effective on record. formances such an acknowledged There's also the "fraternity rock" celebration. At the same time, some of number "Sherry Darling," of which his finest urban scenarios are also Springsteen said on his last tour, "the included. audience was always at least twice as 
Beginning with the Greetings LP, loud as the band." That's the reason for Springsteen and the E Street Band the "party noises" in the back­have progressively excised the band's ground-it's a harmless, mindless 
lighter side, such as "Spirit in the tune that the band has a great deal of Night," "Rosalita" or "Tenth Avenue fun with. Freeze-Out," until by the Darkness But there's much more to The River 
album, only serious, intense tunes than just party tunes. Springsteen uses were included. the same musical tone, but adds his 
Meanwhile, Springsteen's live shows _searing, forceful lyrics to create some continued to pay tribute to the band's of his finest, most compelling human rock 'n' roll roots, doing enthusiastic, portraits. "Point Blank" and "Jackson loyal covers of such hits as The Cage" are two of Springsteen's best Crystals' "Then She Kissed Me," Gary landscapes, utilizing the versatility of "US" Bonds' "Quarter to Three," the band with diffedng arrangements 
Eddie Floyd's "Raise Your Hands" or for fl.Jl effect. Eddie Cochran's "Summertime Both of these tunes paint lurid Blues." On stage at Notre Dame two pictures ofwomen with little hope and 
years ago, he teased, "Watch out or I'm no future, and Springsteen offering gonna do 'Louie Louie.'" Then, as the himself as the only means of hope, of

Bruce drowns in River 
crowd roared, he cranked out that escape. In "Point Blank," he is almost familiar opening riff. That night, he taunting in his reprimand of a woman also did The Animals' "It's My Life" who has given up, angry in his ac­
"Crush on You" and "I Wanna
Critics have a rough time of it. The and the immortal "Twist and Shout" cusation that she is clinging to
Marry You" could be more suitably
purpose ofcritical reviews is to capture by the Isley Brothers. promises and hopes which are un­
retitled, "Bruce Gets Mushy."

the meaning ofa particular art work as The point here is that Springsteen's realistic.
Sometimes the buttery sentiment
experienced by the critic. U nfortun­music is not all stark, imposing land­Roy Bittan's darting piano lines and
ladled onto the vinyl here gets so thick
ately, most art is basically meaningless, scapes, even though he does these Danny Federici's eerie organ fills
the stylus threatens to slip off the
i and thus, most critics have little or perhaps better than anyone. His live darken the scene, yet make it more
I record. Fortunately, the inappropriate 
! 
1 
~ 
lI 
( 
( 
\ 
\ 
r 
~ 
nothing to say. shows depend just as heavily on the believable at the same time.
grittiness of the Boss' cracking vocals 
Such is the case with Bruce joyous, straight-up rockers, and The In all these songs, Springsteen
provides enough traction to keep
Sp:.-ingsteen's new album, The River. River displays the ease with which theE always holds out at least a glimmer of
things blundering ahead. The end
Not only are most of the double-set's Streeters can churn out this mode as hope, yet he can never understand why
result, however, is awfully messy.
songs totally without any intrinsic well. people don't hold on to that hope,
"Point Blank," very well titled, 
value, but the LP seems to be a giant "Out in the Street" and "Crush on don't try with all their might to escape
displays Bruce's uncanny gift of

step into nowhere for "The Boss." The You" are prime examples of these uniquely American hell holes. 
repetition to the pinnacle of perfec­
end result is largely undefinable. Springsteen's facility in this style­"Jackson Cage" is the worst of these
tion. His penchant for saying the same
The hordes of Bruce fans which nearly every tune on The River is hell holes, but the woman here is
phrase {in this superb example, "point
abound at Notre Dame will attempt to steeped in early rock 'n' roll riffs and almost resigned to this bleak exis­
blank") so many times in increasingly 
explain away the lack ofrelevant rock­rhythms, but Springsteen l'ftakes it tence. Springsteen's lyrics have never
agonized overtones enables the

n-roll (as opposed to the classic &rn to work anyway. "Out in the Street" been sharper, his mastery of
listener to completely ignore the
Run or Darkness on the Edge ofTown) as a focuses not on the dull tension of metaphors never moresuccinct than in
song's startling revelation: women can
radical new stage of musical develop­working a lousy job, but on the anxiety "Jackson Cage." 
hurt men emotionally. Have you ever
ment for the New Jersey giant. and impatience of waiting for the Added to Springsteen's raw, anguished 
repeated a word so many times to
Admiring musicians will claim the ·whistle, and then the electricity and singing, "Jackson Cage" becomes one
yourself that it sounds completely
abundance of sappy ballads and the freedom of the big city street scene.
weird and new to you? Such is the -[continued on page 9]lack ofany real guitar playing as just a theme of "Point Blank, Point Blank,"different" Springsteen. But as a critic, Point Blank, Point Blank. ..... ad in­one must sometime play the role ofthe finitum."
little boy who dares· to point out that On The River, Bruce succeeds in the emperor doesn't have any clothes 
on. reducing his large and talented band almost to inaudibility. Clarence
On The River, the Boss is stark naked. 
Clemons' sax toots pathetically here and there to remind us he's still
At last the current king of rock around, but for some inexplicabledrives his theme of escaping the reason, he's denied one ofhis patentedparadise of New Jersey (across the solos heard 'round the world. Royriver, hence the title) so down into the Bittan, the pianist who's seen a lot ofground that to call the lyrical content great session jobs with Ian Hunter,boring would be a complement. We've Mick Ronson, and a host of otherheard it all before, Bruce. Don't you British rockers, carries the burden ofever grow up?

( 
i melodic accompaniment on this
( ·' On "Independence Day," the Boss
.i album. Unfortunately, the mastering
laments the day he leaves home and his
r 
diminishes his efforts to a sigh and a
~ 
family, even though deep down he wants to get away from the dump. In whimper next to Springsteen's thun­
! 
dering howls. 

other words, Bruce suffers from a Because the LP is a double-set, a few 
(.hronic case of guilt. Why he just1 doesn't go to a therapist instead of things go right. "Wreck on the 
i· 
' 
Highway," a sparsely instrumentedtelling the record-buying public all his ballad, succeeds. for here the lyricsproblems in moaning, mooselike paint a grim picture for us with · tones is certainly a mystery. Even more snatches of disjointed detail, lending
perplexing are the reactions ofdiehard Springsteen fans-"Gee, isn't that simple poetic justice to the tune's 
sensitive?," they wail. A better word is somber theme. It was this type of self-indulgent. emotional subtlety which made Born to Run such a milestone.
Even -the rockers aren't. "I'm a Rocker" thunders along in one chord "Sherry Darling" pounds away in the into oblivion, a part of that innovative "frat rock" mode, but Bruce gives us a new Springsteen genre called "fra­couple more chords to relieve the ternity rock.'' "Cadillac Ranch," also a monotony, and thus produces one of member of this new one tempo, neo­those loud ones you love to hear while 
disco, simplistic style, gives tribute to a drunk in a crowded bar on Saturday night.
dumb pop art sculpture ofold Caddies buried in the desert. Thank God we 
[continfleri on page 9]
don't have frats at Notre Dame. 


Pianist Bolet 
to perform at 

O'Laughlin 
The dazzling piano virtuoso ] orge Bolet will perform in concert No­vember 11 in O'Laughlin Auditorium of Saint Mary's College at 8 p.m. 
Boler's program for the evening will include Mendelssohn's "Songs Without Words," Opus 19; Schu­mann's "Carnaval," OJ?US 9; Cho­pin's ''Sonata in B flat mmor, ·~ Opus 35; and "Valse Impromptu" and "Hungarian Rhapsody No. 12" by Liszt. 
Bolet has won extraordinary ac­claimed throughout the world both as a concert recitalist and soloist 

Rock Quiz VI 

I am happy to report that the 
response to my last quiz was, 

comparatively speaking, overwhelm· 
ing. Twentv-two entries were received· 
of those, f~urteen had all the answer~ 
correct (the other eight had at ieast 
eight of ten correct). The winner, 
selected from the correct entries, is 
Albert Emery ofFisherHall. He will be 
receiving his $10 shortly, courteSj' of 
The Observer. Ifvou would like to follow 
in the footsteps ofMr. Emerr, submit 
ten correct answers to today s quiz to 
the Observer office by Monday.
This week's quiz is very simply 

explained. I will give you a list; you tell 
me what the elements ofthe list have in 
common. Most of these have very 
specific things in common, more than ·what may seem obvious. 
1
. "M)' Love,""Venus,""I'm Sorry," "Best of My Love" 

2. 
Mary Wells, Kim Weston, Tammi Terrell, Diana Ross 

3. 
"Stairway to Heaven" by Led Zeppelin; "More Than a Woman" by the Bee Gees; "Pinball Wizard" by Elton John 

4. 
Boston, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, St. Louis, New Orleans 

5. 
EltonJohn's first Top 100 single; EltonJohn's first Top Ten single; Elton John's first recording ofa song written by someone else 

6. 
"From a Window," "It's for You," "Nobody I Know" 


7. Phil Spector, GlynJohns, George 
Talking Heads 
Retnain 

in Light Sire 
With Remain In Light, the Talking Heads continue their exploration of the musical genre I; (.own as funk that first surfaced in "I Zimbra" on last year's Fear ofMusic. The new son.~s are multi-rhythmic extensions on a single base riff that are at first ~rit~ting, then hyphotic and finally 1freslstable. 
Remain In Light represents the Heads' third album collaboration with Brian Eno, former producer of Roxy Music, synthesizer wizard and avante-guarde experimenter extror­dinaire. Eno's influence on this record stands out more than ever, as his electronic doodling practically dominates the first two songs, ''Born Under Punches" and "Crosseyed and Painless' ' . This seems to render Remain In Light totally different from Talkinf!. Heads '77, the group's 

. . . Springsteen 

[continued from page 8] 
of the album's most compelling performances. 
In a similar vein are "The Ties That Bind" and "Hungry Heart," musically Martin 
8. 
"Subterranean Homesick Blues," "Trampled Under Foot," "Space Oddity'' 

9. 
Dinah Shore, Patti Page, Debby Boone 

10. 
Bill Graham, Bert Kaempfert, Jackson Browne 


The answers to last week's quiz are as follows: (1) Lynyrd Skynyrd took its name from their high school physical education teacher (they changed the spelling of Leonard Skinner); (2) "Steely Dan" was the nickname of the Naked Lunch dildo; ( 3) The Fleetwoods got their name•from their telephone exchange letters; (4) The Jeff Bridges movie from 1972 was called Bad Company; (5) A group called the Rollers stuck a pin into Bay City, Michigan, and tacked it onto their name, becoming the Bay City Rollers; (6) Led Zeppelin was named courtesy ofKeith Moon; (7) The Hollies named them­selves after Buddy Holly, one of the early rock greats; {8) The Doors got their name from the Aldous Huxley book The Doors of Perception; (9) Jethro Tull invented the seed drill, and Ian Anderson honored him by using his name for his group; and (10) A group called the Warlocks was looking through the Oxford English Dictionary and came upon the words: "Grateful Dead." Tim Neely 
the Mary he hoped to drive away in "Thunder Road," enduring life with him. Set off by a discordant melody, Springsteen's aching, wistful vocal paints an evocative, almost hopeless scenario. It's not pretty to listen to, but maybe that's the point. 
Finally, there is "Independence 
with orchestra. He chairs the Piano Department at the renowned Curtis Institute in Philadelphia previously headed by ] osef Hofmann and Rudolf Serkin. Bolet is also dnown for his radio, television and movie appearances as well as for his best-selling recordings. His record­ing of L1szt Songs and Opera Transcriptions entitled ''Liszt's Greatest Hits of the 1850's'' was named one ofthe six best recordings by Stereo Review. Bolet began studies in his native Cuba at the age offive and became a student of David Saperton at the Curtis Institute of Music when he was twelve. He graduated in 1934 with top honors and was the first recipient of the Josef Hofmann Award in 19 3 7. Since then he has performed with the world's major orchestras and conductors. In his 1978-79 season, bolet pre­sented eight performances in New York City including three recitals and performances with Musica Aet­erna, the NDR Symphony at carne­gie Hall and the Chamber Music society of Lincoln Center. That season also included performances with the Philadelphia Orchestra, Detroit Symphony and the St. Louis Symphony. Major summer festivals at which Bolet has appeared include Philadel­phia's Robm Hood Dell, Chicafo's Ravinia, the Berkshire Festiva at Tangle wood, Caramoor and the Hollywood Bowl. Winthrop Sargeant of The New Yorker sa.d of Bolet: ''Virtuosity more prodigious than what the Cuban pianist]orge Boler can mus­ter does not exist today. ' ' Tickets for the concert, which is sponsored by ·the Performing Arts series at Saint Mary's are $4. for the general public and $2. for students. For reservations contact the Saint Mary's Ticket Office at 284-4176. Tracy McAuliffe  appealing tunes which belie the . restlessness ofSpringsteen's lyrics. His 12-string guitar strum and upbeat melody may remind some of the mid­60s Byrds, but "The Ties That Bind" has a much finer grasp of the painful loneliness that accompanies a breakup, the guilt that follows, and the indefinable agony that is an inevitable consequence. Springsteen can, in three minutes, explore within the human soul, and make you feel as if you're right there with him. The title cut "The River" has ties to -several earlier works. Again, Spring­steen uses the metaphor of water as a cleansing agent of the soul, as he did when he wrote "Tonight my baby and me, we're gonna ride to the sea/ And wash these sins off our hands" in "Racin in the Street." "The River" is a ballad of hard luck with Mary, perhaps • • .Bruce [continued from page 8] "The River" works because Bruce believes what he's singing about. The rest of the album fails to match the level ofsincerity and inspiration set by this truly sensitive ballad. "The River" is the summation of the Boss' message of escapism, realism, and ultimately, a grim sense of hope. Musically, the crowning achieve­ment on the LP lies in "The Ties that Bind," rife with complex key changes, some real guitar playing, meter shifts, and a lyric that accentuates the angry tone. Its placement as the first song on the album makes it easy for D]'s to find, so look for this good rocker as a single soon. All in all, the LP does not warrant the outrageous $15.98 list price. Rah-rahs will no doubt swarm in droves to the local music outlet and drool over the dull grey packaging in record numbers. Ultimately, however, history will wisely see The River as the sham and disappointment it truly is. Tim Sullivan  Day." "My old man worked his whole life at a job he hated," Springsteen said at a show last month in Chicago, and that has a way ofcasting a certain pallor over a household already saddled in hopeless depression. Douglas Springsteen and his son endured a tense, rarely-speaking relationship which still exists, and "Independence Day" is the final, hardly tearful, goodbye. Even at this point, Springsteen ponders why their relationship was never a normal one. Now I don't know what italways was with us, We chose the words, andyeah, we drew tbe lines, There wasjust no w~y this house couldhold the two ofus, I guess that we were just too much of the same kind It's one ofthe most powerful, personal verses Springsteen has ever written. It's followed by a bluesy, thoughtful sax solo by Clarence Clemons, the best he's done since "] ungleland." In the end, Springsteen blameE> himself, and perhaps "Independt:ncc Day" serves him as an exorcism of th.; guilt for this relationship. So say goodbye, it's independence otz.Y­Papa now I know the things you wantfd, but you could not say, But won't you just say goodbye, it's independence day, I swear I never meant to take those t/1-ngs away. Springsteen has never opened himself up to us as he does here. "Independence Day" is one ofthe best songs Bruce Springsteen has evt:· written. The River, as with all two-record set~. is not without its clunkers. "Wreck on the Highway" sounds like a bad C & W moaner. "Cadillac Ranch" is dumb. ''I Wanna Marry You" is camp. Regard­less, this album still contains som~· of Bruce Springsteen's finest moments, both light and serious, and that in itself makes this a highly worthwhile collection. Tom Jackman  almost pop debut album. One basic similarity between these two albums lies in the lyrics of David Byrne, which remam as psychotic and acid-laced as ever. Hyrne's singin~, however, has changed. On previous albums, with such songs as ''Psycho Killer'' and the hit "Take Me to the River," Byrne phrased his lyrics as if.he were standing on a ledge giving a sermon before his suicide. the singing had a twisted power unlike anything ever heard before, with the possible exception of that of David Bowie. Now, Byrne has adopted a slower, chantinJ! style--one that is suited to the hypnotic nature of the group's new sound. Take for exam­ple "Houses in Motioin," which ·sounds like Talking Heads meet Funkadelic. This song is subdued compared to "Psycho Killer," yet the lyrics and music combine to gtve one the feding that David Byrne is a mellowed-out paranoid-schizophre­nic. That's too bad One of the major attributes of this band was its sense of being close to the edge. The Heads become more sure of themselves on Remain In Light, a move that lessens some of the bite that always existed in their earlier material. However, with songs such as "Seen and not seen," in which a man assumes the ability to chan~e his visage by recalling ' 'ideal factal structures" found "In movies, in TV, in magazines and in books," Byrne still shows some of that old bizarre, tripped-out magic. The Heads now have four albums to their credit, and Remain In Light continues a trend of progressive weirdness. It is not their best effort (try Fear of Music), and the new music may be hard for some fans to accept at fust (''They sound like Parliament. What gives?) but succes­sive listenings should bear out the twisted geni.us of David Byrne and cohorts, if not that of Brian Eno. Stephen Swonk  

----------~ --~-------­

Thursday, November 6, 1980-page 10 

Campus 
• 
):30 p.m. -itt lecture, "japan and the united states in a turbulent world: myths and reality." norman rnacrae will speak on "lessons from japanese cxpc:ric:nce," mem. lih. aud. 

• 
4:1 ') p.m. -english majors: fjnd out ahout what vou might do next year, rm 


10) o'shag, meet with place­menI ollie<:. 
• 7: .~0 p.m. films, "double indemnity" and "the: big co111 ho," I ih. aud. 

Molarity Michael Molmelli 

AND YOU A LLY
THE R£ AR£" 60 Y

Y£~ THEY ARE. THQSE 8001-<6 HEP.t= TI+E 
CH£~L LET.5 ~ . .. 
ARE FOR MY .5EMINAR 8001<5 YOUR5 
WOw·'.liRE ALL -mo.5£ 

LIBRAP.Y OF CDNGJii£55 FOR fviY Lli£RA1UR£ 
COURSES I IHE5E ARE 
COULD GIV£ YVU A CLASS AND THD_j£ ARE 
FoR MY RE5E.ARCH 


Center to hold stress workshop 

A St rcss Management work­hop, offered by the Counseling ('enter. will begin tomorrow. The 2-session workshop will examinc the various aspects of Iif(· that lead to stn:ss, as, well as uur thoughts and actions that make it more extreme. Special attention will he given to practicing methods for coping with and relieving stress, includ­ing training in relaxation tech­niques and selt~monitoring thought and behavior. The workshop will meet tomorrow and next Friday from 1 to 4 p. 111. The sessions are opep to all students. facultv and staff. Call 
171 H or come t<.l the Counseling Center, room 400 Ad111 inistraon Bldg.. to sign-up or for further informa ti< m. 



Peanuts® Charles M. Schulz 

I HATE THE CHAN6lN6 OF ~E 6UA~D! 



ACROSS 37 Tarzan pal 1 Shillelagh 39 Silent 4 Thin nails performer 9 Walkin 40 Lank

The Daily Crossword 
water 41 Mischa­13 A Gardner 43 Oldtime 14 Devour Irani 15 Top actor 44 Abound 16 "Lucia 45 Tramp 

di -" 46 Allen and 18 Zola Lawrence 
heroine 48 Plus 19 Office item 50 Husbands 20 Sleep genie 52 Ms Papas 22 New Mexico 53 Batter 
art colony 55 Avatarof 24 -M.ahal VIshnu 25 Virile 57 Golf clubs 29 Drinker's 61 American 
woes painter 31 Morevile 66 Theater 35 Assignment award 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

© 1980 by Chicago Tribune·N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 11/6/80 All Rights Reserved 

67 In-­(Jailed) 69 Tumeror 
Louise 70 Bolt 71 Chinese 
city 72 Attention 73 Grand, 
soap, or horse 74 Fabray, to friends 
DOWN 
1 Impish child 2 -·Ala, 
USSR 3 Heatreg. 4 Kentucky 
college 
5 Loading Iron of sorts 
6 From-Z 7 Pairs 8 Small 
herring 9 Tall ship 10 Style of furniture 
11 Brazilian woman of rank 
12 Verve 13 Overhead 
railroads 17 Singer John 21 Arrest 
23 Speak 
nervously 25 Perle­26 City In 
France 27 Shouts 28 Kind of 
shark 30 Resort 32 Cook's item 33 German city 34 Della of 
song 36 Society belle 38 Printer's 
measures 42 Pal for Abner 47 Jeweled headpiece 49 Babllonia on ice 51 Former Cairo VIP 54 Paris subway 56 Island near Italy 57 Clothes Insect 58 Rose's 
husband 59 Trig word 60 Send 62 Fed 63 Bovary 64 Sign light 65 Attempt 68 Eden woman 

:·...................................................................................................., .... .._. ~ ~ ~
~ ~ ~ ~ ._.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
.. ············•············································•············•··•····•·•·····. . 
.. . .. • ~----------------' 
.

. .• t t STUDENT SENATE t t
. . 
:·····························································~. • •
. t t t t 
.
.

. t ·t WILL EXIST! t t
• 

.. .. .~THIS WEEK AT THE NAZZ~.
. . ......••.•.......................................•.•........ 
. . ~ ~
. . I t I t 
. .

. I I t t
. ·...................................•................................••......•........
•••• t t You overwhelmingly demonstrated t t 
. 
•

. THURSDAY -OPEN STAGE 1 tyour approval -now continue your t t
.
.
.

. FRIDAY 9:00 GREG BUTLER t tsupport by running for representative t t
. ­
. .
.

. . t 1of your district(look for district break-t t 
. 10:30 JOHN CUCKOVICH
.

.. 1 tdown on posters in your halls and t t 
.. STEPHEN BIRACREE . •
. . I tlocations off-campus.) t t
. •
... SATURDAY -9:00 ALICE VARGAS . 
.

. f f MANDATORY MEETING f f
.

. BOB O'DONNELL 
•

. .
. . I f for those interested: t f 
. .
.

.• & FRIENDS f f MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 8:00 f I
. 
.

. f f SECOND FLOOR LaFORTUNE t f
.. • 10:30 MIKE DALY . •• 
... . 
. f f t t
•••••····•·•••·•••••······································•···························•·•···•·····•··• ~~~~._... ---~~---~---~~~~~~ .... 
The Observer 
Thumbs up 


Irish lucky to get Corrigan 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va.-Throughout this week, I have been writing and writing about Notre Dame's new athletic director, Eugene Corrigan. After spending a day with this gentleman during October break, the three-part series was easy to write. The tough part was trying not to lace it with my admiration and enthusiasm for the man. Now's my chance. 
As I was heading south on Route 29 through the majestic Shenandoah Valley, I could not under­stand why a man would want to leave all of that beauty behind. And after our interview was over, Corrigan offered a tour ofthe campus. He seemed so happy in his environment, and it seemed so happy with him. Why South Bend and Notre Dame? 
"Truthfully, Notre Dame is the only place I'd leave here for," he said as we wandered through the hallowed halls of Thomas Jefferson's design. "I've never really thought aoout leaving here, because I've always thought that any move like that would be a lateral move. But Notre Dame is different. This is a step up." · 
Gene Corrigan is a very progressive thinker. He never dwells on why something can't be done, but rather r.ow it can be improved upon. 
As we toured The Lawn (U.Va.'s equivalent of Notre Dame's quads), every other person we passed had a kind word for Gene Corrigan. "Gene, we're gonna miss you, but the best ofluck to you. I hope Notre Dame realizes how lucky they are.'' Sometimes Corrigan knew the well-wisher, but most were just your average Joe; a student-not necessarily an athlete, a teacher, a friend. And Corrigan had a moment and a kind word for every 
one. 
What Gene Corrigan did for the University of Virginia cannot be measured only in new facilities or varsity sports. For the first time in the school's history, there is true pride in the athletic program. Going to football games is now more than just another chance to get drunk at the greatest party school in the country. At football and basketball games, they now shout out code numbers instead of dirty words. Not just any athletic diector has that kind of influence. 
His influence over the students reaches his fund raising efforts as well. Corrigan wanted a building that the students could use for intramurals and general recreation-much like· Notre Dame's Rockne Memorial. So instead ofstaging a massive fund drive among alumni and friends, he simply went to the student government and told them that this building would be exclusively for them, and that they should pay for it. 
It's nothing extravagant, but the Recreation/ Intramural complex is now a reality. The students agreed to pay a five dollar per year fee for the next dozen years or so. 
That kind of innovative and progressive think­ing by Corrigan has brought Cavalier athletics to respectability in the '70's. It is also that kind of thinking that will keep Notre Dame athletics­
not just football and basketball-thriving through the '80's. 

Corrigan's transition from sout-hernstate school 
to small midwest private school· .i.ll be easier than 
it may appear on the surfac . Tl-l 'VlO schools are 
very similar. Both schools h .ve i~o__redibly spirited 
student bodies. Both ha\ : rich traditions of 
academic and, only recently at Virginia, athletic 
excellence. Both have big round administration 
buildings-U. Va. it's Rotunda and Notre Dame 
it's Golden Dome. Both went through the same 
growing pains during the 1970swith the admission 
ofwomen-Notre Dame in '72 and U.Va. in '70. 
The two have their obvious differences too. 
Corrigan was shocked to learn that students 
couldn't have kegs in the dorms. "Where do you 
have parties?" he asked. 

Corrigan seemed more comfortable on the campus as he greated passing students and faculty, than he did with the political "Big Shots" of the University. We joined his wife for lunch at the Boar's Head (I told you the two schools were a lot alike!). There we ran into members of Virginia's Board ofVisitor's-comparable to Notre Dame's Board ofTrustees. Corrigan didn't stop to talk for long, for he knew they were discussing an difficult task they had ahead ofthem -chasing his succes­sor. 
Lena Corrigan, "an Italian through and through," he says with a smile, has heard horor stories about the South Bend winters. "It's not so bad," I told her. "People out there know how to handle the snow. By the time you get there in 
January, we'll already have a foot or so on the ground, and life goes on." 
She cringed. Yet those were still the kindest words she'd heard about her new home. "This will be the first time we've moved without all seven kids," she added. "This time we'll have just one (14-year-old Gene Jr.)." 
"Don't worry," I said. "The basketball and hockey teams will both be there. Ifyou ask Digger and Lefty nicely, they might let you borrow a couple of able bodies." 
Ironically, Notre Dame will be playing Virginia in basketball at Chicago's Rosemont Horizon (Feb. 22). "There's no way I could go to that game," she said. "I couldn't cheer against Ralph (Sampson) and Jeff (Lamp) and the boys. But I couldn't cheeragainst Notre Dame." Her husband agreed. 
Virginia's student newspaper, The Cavalier Darley, ran an editorial after Corrigan made his resignation official. The headline read simply, "The Luck of the Irish." The Irish, the school and its fans are indeed lucky to have Gene Corrigan in South Bend. 

.~::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::: 
~~~------------~
I need printing I @j QUALI!Y !YPiliG SERVICE I
I in a hurry? I 
Pavers · !hesis · Diuertations Reports ·Manuscripts . Resumes 1100 -llx17 postersl L~ters · Le&al Briefs 
I only$10.00 I 
III ~ · 203 N. Main1 I 
• • . I 
··. •• r South Bend 1 
I 

ilj MICHIAIIA aoLLBGI or co••••amll,
I 289-6977 I I the wiz of the 1 
Ill llli



:.~:~~~~~4~:::
LP!T.!!!'9-~~--~ 1::::;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;~ 
Thursday, November 6, 1980-page 11 

Gene Corriga11 has some unfinished business to take care of before lw leaves the University of Virginia to become athletic director at Notre Dame on January 5. (Photo courtesy of the The ~,'avalier Daily.) 
----------------------------------------~
iANYTHING GROWS N. IRONWOO~ ! 
I FLORIST -campus delivery TOLL ROAD II House Plants Gifts. Corsages DIRECTLY : !HOUSE PLANTS ,14 :.5~. ~~ ~:U~~~~ i I GIFTSf TELEFLORIST 10% DISCOUNT I II WIRE FLOWERS PRESENT THIS 1I 
I OOU~NI 
I 272-8820 ND -SMC 10/80 I 
~--------------------------------------~ 
LEE'S Presents 

A NIGHT OF JAZZ 
Tonight 9 p.m.-1 a.m. All You Can Drink $300 Guys $200 Girls 21 ID Required 
Have you considered a career in INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS? 

The Master of International Business Studies (MIBS) Program provides a unique and innovative international business education. Among its special characteristics are: 
INTENSIVE LANGUAGE TRAINING 6 MONTH OVERSEAS INTERNSHIP INTEGRATED UNIFIED BUSINESS 
CURRICULUM IN-DEPTH CULTURAl STUDIES 
Other programs offered by the College of Business Administration include the MBA, M.S. in B.A., Ph.D. in B.A., M.A. in Economics, and the Ph.D. in Economics. 
For further information see our representative at the Chicago MBA Forum on November7 (3:00-8:00 p.m.) and November 8 (10:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m.) at Northwestern· 
University or write to: 

Director of Graduate Studies College of Business Administration University of South Carolina ('olumbi;t. Sf' 20~0~ 


~ ~ ~~ 
~ 
\ 
( ( 
~ 
I 
j 
I 
'' 
i 
~ 
l 
1 
1 
} 
j 
' 
J 
l ( . 
,{ 
I I 
-------~--------------~-,__-------------------------------­
_T_h_e_O_b_s_e_r_ve_r _Ihursday, November 6, 1980-page 12 
River City Records & Jam Productions Present 


VANHALEN 
INC:( )NCERf 

Special Guest 
TALAS 
Tonight, November 6 • 8 p.m. Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets: $8.50 reserved seats still available at the ACC Box Office and River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North -3 miles north of campus. 
Good tickets still available at the box office 
River City Records & Jam Productions Present 
AN EVENING WITH 

Friday, November 14 • 8:00p.m. Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets: $9.00/$8.00 all seats reserved. Good seats still available at the ACC Box Office and River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North -3 miles north of campus 
1 --------~----------~---·­
RIVER "IW_ RECOICII~
INorthern Indiana's larg•st Selet:lipnlot Albums &Tapes and lowest Prices! 1 Why pay more at the malls? __ _
I . ­I 
I 
I 

I 


$1.00 OFF!
I 

any regular album or tope
I 

purchase with this coupon.
I 

limit 1 per person. Expires 
· Nov. 30, 1980
I 

I I •Open unti110:00 every night.
I 

•ND/SMC checks cashed up to $20~00
1 

over purchase amount
1

1 • Record crates available. 
II River Citv Records 
1----------JlZ~~~~--------­



Buy Observer Classifieds 

There isn't another place on earth that people would be so upset about a number-one ranking. Anywhere else in the country, co-eds would be going bonkers, coaches would be tripping over their tongues and department stores would be pedaling Dan Devine dolls. 
But here, students are wondering aloud how much being ranked number-one will hurt Notre Dame's chances to defeat Alabama. 
What terrible luck. What could we have done to deserve this? 
That's very simple. The Notre Dame football has won its first seven games, all but one ofthem in very convincing fa.;hion. . 
So the Irish sit atop the college football world, exactly where they deserve to be. What's so terrible about that? 
Sure, there's an added burden that goes along with being the best in the land. But something tells me that nothing could make it any harder to defeat Alabama in Birmingham. And the friendly folks in Atlanta didn't wait for Notre Dame to rise to the number-one spot before uleashing their barrage of booze bottles and dead fish. 
But there's something more important. This Notre Dame team oozes with character. Its won­lost record is proof enough of that. 
The story behind this team, though, goes much deeper than its 7-0 ledger. It started in August, when head coach Dan Devine announced his resignation. 
Who would take his place? What kind ofseason could Notre Dame possibly hope for under a lame­duck coach? 
Things didn't calm down much when it came time for Devine and his staff to choose a starting quarterback. 
Craig 
Chval 

But he can't throw the ball! 
He's only a freshman! 
And then the injuries. Notre Dame's mJury report reads like a listing of the first round of the National Football League draft. In a few years, it probably will. 
This Notre Dame football team has answered its harshest critics. And then some. It has both the talent and the character to win its remaining games and claim what would certainly be Notre Dame's' most gratifying national championship since the days of Leahy and Rockne. 
But that doesn't mean that it will, and that's the point. 
Should the Irish stumble against Alabama or Southern Cal-or even Georgia Tech or Air Force-people will look back anc:i say in patronizing tones, "That's OK, it was still a great season." 
Their message will be incontestable, but their timing will be brutal. 
Now is the time to enjoy the lofty ranking that Notre Dame's football team has worked so hard to attain. If the Irish are able to finish their season unbeaten and top-ranked, that's fine. 
But ifthey don't, there is no reason that itshould take the luster offwhat they have accomplished so far. 

• 

-----~-­
The Observer Thursday, November 6, 1980-page 13 

Tony Hunter {85) missed last week's Navy Game, blft is listed as a probable start versm Tech. (Photo ~Y john Macor.) 
McGraw joins free agents 
NEW YORK (AP)-Tug McGraw, one of the heroes of Philadelphia's rush to baseball's world championship last month, declared for the free agent re­entry draft yesterday, charging that the Phillies are not willing to pay him at the same level as the team's other top players. 
McGraw and outfielder Steve Braun of the Toronto Blue Jays pushed to 52 the number of 
.. . johnson 
[continued from page 16] 
Toran has given us a very sound unit. 
"Tom Gibbons has been a very good leader. He has accepted his resonsibilities well and helped to make things clearer to many of the players." 

Jim johnson. 

In reflecting on his stint here at Notre Dame, Johnson seems very satisfied with what has occured. "I have enjoyed Notre Dame immensely. It has to be one of the top schools in the country because it has some of the top people that I've been associated with. To tell you the truth though, I haven't had too much time to think about it, because I have plenty of other things on my mind, mostly Georgia Tech." 
players declaring for free agency with the deadline for filing at midnight yesterday. 
Only one other player, Texas pitcher Charlie Hough, was eligible to join the fre agent list but the knuckleballer was re­ported close to signing a contract with the Rangers. 
McGraw issued a statement to explain his situation. 
"I have entered the free agent draft as of this afternoon, Nov. 5," it said. "My request to the Phillies was this: my contribu­tion to the first world champion­ship in 97 years was equal to that of any person or player on the team. I want to be in the norm with the salaries of these players. To date, the Phillies have de­clined to make me a proposal of salary comparable to those salary levels of the other key players of the team. I didn't want this, but at this point there was no other choke." 
The deadline-10 days following the end of the World Series -was mere1y to declare for the draft. Players who filed still can sign with their teams until next Monday, three days before the draft takes place. 
• • • Home 
(continued from page 16) 
is a superb skater-one of our best-and is an excellent scorer as well as playmaker. We're hoping for big things from him this season. 
"This Minnesota series is an extremely important one for us. The Gophers are the best team in the league this year. A good weekend now could be a big boost to us, It's a great rivalry." 
For more than one reason. This weeknd its Notre Dame vs. Minnesota -and Rothstein vs. Rothstein. 
·Notre Dame hosts Tri-State 
by Kelly Sullivan seen a lot ofimprovement in the 
blocking was excellent, but we
Women's Sports Editor girls the past couple ofmonths." 
didn't position ourselves on the 
What the Irish mentor feels 

line well and we were not
Notre Dame will attempt to 
her team must do this evening is 

reacting to the ball."
close out its regular season with a 
keep their concentration and 

wir. ~onight when the volleyball Junior Jan Yurgalitis returned
play aggressively off the net. squ: d hosts Tri-State College. to action since sustaining a back
"Accomplishing those two ob­

:Ya r, "' time is set for 6 p.m. in the injury last month. Vanslager
jectives will guarantee us a win,"

1\C( pit. . 
cited her strong performance on
she added.

The Irish battled Tri-State in both offense and defense this
The Irish fell to both Purdue­

their season opener, dropping a 
week.
Calumet and Bethel in contests

highly contested three-game 
earlier this week. Purdue-Cal

match. But Notre Dame coach Notre Dame, now 2-9, will
handed Notre Dame a 10-15,4­

Sandy Vanslager believes her start preparing for state tourna­
15 decision, while the host Pilots 

crew has come a long way since ment action after tonight's
were 4-15, 14-16 victors. 

then. match. The Irish compete in the 
"We made a lot ofmistakes on "Defensively, those two playoffs nt:xt weekend. fundamentals then, and we were m:-.tches were our best of the constantly in the net. But I've season," Vanslager offered. "The 
Prices Good While Supply Lasts 
• • .Corrigan 
-

Castillo 
the school's history. The fuo~!Jali

(continued from page 16) 
L

White Label 
coach will be leaving at the end of "I really didn't have a great this season as will the athletic 
Rum 
perception of Notre Dame at director. The President, Fr. 
1 Liter
all," he recalls of the days before Hesburgh and his Executive Vice 
0 

he had any affiliation with the President, Fr. Joyce, will be 
$5.39 
school. "In fact, I had almost retiring in the not-too-distant none. I got mad because they future. Somehow, this man who 
c

were on television all the time... never has had any direct affilia­
and won." But he added with a tion with the University before, grin, "I wanted to get my school must fit into the picture. on. "I hope I'm fitting in in order 
K

Pabst
"But I guess that the greatest to sustain what's there, particu­thing that happened to me (to larly the perspective on athletics 
Blue Ribbon 
give me an impression of Notre because I think that's important Dame) was the trip out there and at Notre Dame. I sensed that 
s

Beer 
24-12 oz. Cans people about Notre Dame's body and the alumni. Because of 
the chance to talk to some that's important to the student 
$6.69
feeiing for athktics. It's just a the great tradition, they can proper one. That's what snowed continue to be good. me completely-more than "The other thing is sustaining a 

. -L
anything, because I really believe program during a time when that the worst thing you can do to costs are just..., well you know an athlete is pamper him. what it's like driving a car and 
Kamchatka
"You have to keep athletics in everything else. It's just real focus, and who keeps it in focus tough. Coming up with ways to 
I

Vodka
better than Notre Dame? Really do that without interfering with 
1 Liter
nobody-nobody does-and Notre Dame itself-aca­that's a great thing." demically or any other way; those 
$4.49 
Corrigan will be working at are the things we'll be talking Notre Dame during a very about and addressing when I get dynamic and transitional time in out there." · 
,_ 


Bellows
HolyCrossFathers 
0

London
Uruversity of Notre Dame 
Dry Gin 
1 liter 
R 

$4.99 
-

"'"" 
-

Riunite Lambrusco 


750 ml 
0 

$2.59 
R 
L 


-
L 

Red White Blue 
D 

Beer 
24-12 oz. Cans 
$5.98 
....,;, 


-
~ 12H South Bend Ave. Phone: 277-3611 
NO Party Hea uarters 

A community of faith and friendship where young men prepare to become Holy Cross priests. 
For further information or vocational counseling with no obligation contact: 
II 
Rev. Andre Leveille, c.s.c. Box 541 Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
219 283-6385 
.. 




The Observer Thursday, November 6, 1980 -page 14 
Weaver nearing end? 
NEW YORK (AP)-Mike Weaver, the World Boxing Association champion, returned quietly in triumph from South Africa yesterday and said he won't be fighting much longer. 

"I promised my mother I would quit," said the 29-year-old Weaver who fought several years 
I ' for grocery money before hitting I '·I the pot of gold. "I'm not fighting much I I longer," said the ex-marine who 
I I 
made his first WBA title defense
I ( 
Oct. 25 when he knocked out
I I 
South African Gerrie Coetzee in
I I 
the 13th round in the South 

African black homeland of Bohuthatswana. 
a fight in ssible 
~ 
~------.:::::_.

V, c::. , For The Benefit 
~~~-......·._.~~ P..sG\ Of The MentalI~ 
~ ..;c-\r Handieapped! 
~ A..sl.. At The Notre Dame ACC 
--. p November %3, I980 S To 9:30P.M.! 
Petri Wine 
Burgundy, Pink Chablis, Vin Rose, Chablis Blanc, Rhine 
I 
r 

• Taylor Lake Country
! White, Pink, Gold, Or Red 
l ! 

SEAGRAM'S 7CROWN 

Cooney and then Holmes and that's it. Three fights, that's it." 
Don Manuel, the manager who has helped turn Weaver's career around, said the determining factor on who Weaver's next opponent would be is money. Weaver, who as a substitute fought for a few hundred dollars or less in the first few years of a career that began in 1972, picked up a payday ofabout $2.5 million against Coetzee. 
The two big paydays looming for Weaver are against Gerry Cooney, an unbeaten white heavyweight who is ranked No. 1 by both the WBA and the World Boxing Council, and, of course, against Larry Holmes, the WBC champion. 
Weaver was stopped in the 12th round in a titleid against Holmes in 1979. Weaver was considered such an underdog that the three major television networks wouldn't buy the fight. "People tend to judge me by my record," said Weaver. 
The record of Weaver, who lives in Los Angeles, was 18-8 going into the Holmes fight. But he gave Holmes a rough time and has won all four fights since, including a knockout of John Tate with 45 seconds left in the bout to win the WBA title last March 31. 
"I think Larry Holmes has the right to say he is the heavy­weight champion of the world," said Weaver. "He beat me, but I feel I can beat him. I think I'm the best heavyweight in the world today." 
Weaver certainly has come on as a fighter and it didn't just happen. He was 9-6 back in 1976 when he asked the California State Athletic Commission to get rid of his managers and was allowed to. He hooked on with Manuel and it's been a winning combination which has paid div­idends for the one-time odd-job man who fought for extra money. 
Basketball tickets available 

Student basketball tickets may be picked up at the second floor ticket window of the ACC from 8:30a.m. until4:30 p.m. accord­ing to the following schedule: Seniors, Monday, Nov. 10; 
Juniors and graduate students, Tuesday, Nov. 11; Sophomores, VVednesday, Nov. 12; and Freshmen, Thursdav, Nov. 13. 
From Friday, N~v. 14 until Wednesday, Nov. 19 students who are not able to pick up tickets on schedules days may get their tickets. Anv tickets un­claimed bv Nov. i 9 will be for­feited by the student and a refund rendered. 
There will be a limit of four ID's per pick up. 
Because of a high demand for tickets this year some juniors have been lotteried into the bleacher section. A list of juniors with bleacher seats will be published in tomorrow's 
Observer 

Any student interested in purchasing tickets for the Nov. 20 game with the Polish National Team mav do so at the Gate 1o box offic~ from Nov. 10 toNov. 
14. On Nov. 17 unpurchased student tickets for that game will go on sale to the general public 
Tickets available at any 
of owro: :nth~.locationa 
~::!! 
Taylor California Keller· Cellars Geister 
llwpmdy, Roo., RJ.hw, C...bU. 750 mi. 
2~~ I••
Liter 
GORDON'S VODKA 
Gallo Yago Wines 
Sant'Gria 
llwpmdy. Rhino, H..,rty llwcundY, C...blit Blanc, C ...bUo, Vin Rott" 

•u. ) 
4~' z••. 
CANADIAN CLUB 



Hiram Walker'o Peppermint ja~ Schnapps 

!3~' 
Beer SpeeiaIs! 
:r::~~~ ..........750 mi. 64 9 
Cointreau 131 9 
.:ii~ ~.-..... -i.l 
Liqueur ....... 750 mi. 
Miller Budweiser 
t:::ur.......750~. 1259 
·..~ 
EUJ 1r RonRico Brandy & Rum 
Sil•er Or Gold 
99~499. 
750 750 
ml. ml. 

Ji9Ra,rit•'''¥J 
* 1621 South Bend Ave,* 200 N. Main St. 
SOlmi BEND, 23l-4603 ELKHART. 29S.6310
JUB 

* 6502 Grape Rd. * 254 Dixie Hwy. North 
MISHAWAKA. 277-7176 ROSELAND, 272-2522 
Liqueur Of The Week 
Guaano 
1169 

Rojo Mescal. . 750 mi. 
MINI MABKETS 
* 1426 Miahawaka Ave. * 4401 S. Michiran 
287.7744 291-2600
* 2934 E. McKinley Ave.* 1725 N. Ironwood 
233.9466 27Z. 7144 
PieJr Up YcP,ur Spirits • And Enjoy Lower Priees! 
Merchandise Gift Certificates Available Now 
) C,u.\P.,\nlo.:t· ( 
The King's Commibnent 
To You! 
* ALWAYS LOW. LOW PIUCI'IG ON QU.wTY PRODUCTS. 
* 1liE MOST COURTEOUS SERVICE 
POSSIBU:. 
* SAl1SFACTION CUARAJifTEED 
-


• 

SportS Brie{§ 
Thursday, November 6, 19so _page 15 
~b~~=·~T,~h~e=:O~h~s:e:rt=~~,r~a=n=d~T~h:e:A~ss=u=,J=a=t=,,d~P::rt=-r=J~::::;_:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::R:E:C:E:IV:I:N:G:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::;~~~:; 
G NO YDS AVG TO LG DEFENSIVE STATS *TM TL·YDS PBU FR BK 
T~e Notre Dame-St. Marv's ski 
team wtll hold a racing form clinic tonight at 7:30 in-t~e south alcove ofLaFortune. A brief film will be shown, followed by a short lecture on competitive racing style. Also a reminder that dry land training has begun. Workouts h~ve started on Wedne~~ays,_Thursdays, and Sundays behind theACC. Week­da_Y trammg 1s at 4:30 p.m. For further information, contact 
Mtke Case at 288-0416. 
Army ticket refunds for Notre Dame or 
St. Mary's students who ordered an individual game ticket for the October I 8 game and did not pick up that ticket are available in the form of cash refunds during the hours of 9-5 
p.m. Monday through Friday at the Gate 10 Box Office Window. Students may pick up their refund during the month of November. The last day refunds will be issued will be Wednesday, November 26 (the day before Thanksgiving break). Presentation ofyour student ID cards is required to obtain the cash refund. 
The interhall six-mile run wm be 
held on Saturday, November 15 at 10 a.m. The course will be entirely on the Notre Dame campus utilizing the golf course, lake trails and campus roads. Notre Dame undergraduates, graduates, faculty and staff may enter. Separate divisions for men and women in each category (undergraduate, graduate and faculty/staff) will be set up. Ifyou wish to run, you mustcome to the inter hall office (C-2) in the ACC, to complete the insurance and entry forms before Wednesday, November 12. 
Women interested in playinglacrosse should contact Nuala Byrne at 232-3656. Play is open to both Notre Dame and St. Mary's women and no previous experience is necessary. 
~-----........._. ----· ...·---•. -----­
Classifieds 
::•k¥FOOTBALL,~Wm 
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP 
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 2680 1644 Total Plays 542 429 Yards per Play 4.9 3.8 Yards per Game 382.9 234.9 
PENALTIES-YARDS 54-570 28·321 
FUMBLES-LOST 11·7 16·9 Yards Returned 0 0 
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 140 ~ By Rushing 99 45 By Passing 33 42 By Penalty 8 5 
THIRD DOWNS·CONV. 130-63 107-35 Percentage .485 .327 
POSSESSION TIME 241:16 178:44 Minutes per Game 34:28 25:32 
RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TO LG 
J. Stone 7 145 735 5.1 5 73 Carter 3 99 499 5.0 4 54 Kiel 7 45 168 3.7 3 80 
Sweeney 7 30 130 4.3 0 17 Barber 7 32 106 3.3 2 10 Courey 5 26 99 3.8 1 18 Moriarty 6 3 78 26.0 0 49 Bell 4 5 66 13.2 1 27 Hunter 6 4 44 11.0 0 22 Buchanan 7 15 39 2.6 1 9 Mosley 4 12 37 3.1 0 3 MeGar~ 7 1 2 2.0 1 2 Adell 1 1 2 2.0 0 2 Grooms 3 1 2 2.0 0 2 Morris 2 2 1 0.5 0 2 
NOTRE DAME 7 421 2008 4.8 18 80 OPPONENTS 7 249 680 2.7 4 37 
PASSING G NO CO PCT INT YDS TO 
Kiel 7 78 32 .410 2 363 0 Courey 5 40 21 .525 4 278 2 Hunter 6 1 1 1.000 0 31 0 Holohan 7 1 0 0.000 0 0 0 
J. Stone 7 1 0 0.000 0 0 0 
NOTRE DAME 7 121 54 .446 6 672 2 OPPONENTS 7 180 86 .47B 8 964 6 
KICKOFF RETURNS NO YDS AVG TO ..I.G 
J. Stone 10 226 22.6 0 49 Barber 6 144 24.0 0 41 
NOTRE DAME 16 370 23.1 0 49 OPPONENTS 32 539 16.8 0 67 
vsed and Out-of-Print books bought. sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS, 1027 E. Wayne, 232-8444. 12·6 p.m.• closed Mondays. 
ND/SMC PHOTOGRAPHERS I need camera time. Do you need a model? # 7 344 
Experienced typist will do typing In her home. Convenient to NO. Recently completed typing of dis­sertation. References available. "'72-7623. 
o:IDE OFFERED Going East to Erie, Po. Leave 11·7 al2 p.m. Return 11-10 in 
a.m. Call x6436 betw 8-5. Ask for r:>ebbie F. 
OVERSEAS JOBS • Summer/year round. Europe, S. Amer., Australia, Asia. All fields. $500·$1200 monthly. Sightseeing. Free info. Write: IJC, Box 52-IN4, Corona Del Mar, Ca. 
12625. 
---:::r --. . . .... -------. 
UGLY DUCKLING RENT-A-CAR 
liANKSGIVING SPECIAL. 4 days, 
~39.9!5 with 200 free miles. Phone 
!!55-2323 lor reseiVatlons. 
·nstanl cash paid far ladles' and ,-,en's class rings. $20.$100 or more. 
•:e make house calls. Also buying other gold Items. 255-2402. 

LOST: Pair of glasses near Engineer­Ing Aud. Fri., Oct. 31. If found, please call Suzanne @ 41·4518. I'm going blind! 
FOUND: A black umbrella with a · 'IOOden handle, left on the Wash· ington D.C. Club bus. returning "om break. can #1268. 
·ouND: Keys by the Grofto bus tlelfer, call8275. 
:>UNO: WOMAN'S WATCH. TUESDAY 
'tiGHT AT PIPPIN AUDITIONS IN 
~RTUNE BALLROOM. CALL PAUL · 916 AND IDENTIFY. 
FOUND: Bracelet at Beaux-Arts Ball. Identity at Architectural Bldg. office. 
FOUND Thursday before break in rm. 101 Buslness-Admin. Bldg.: dark blue umbrella. Call Mary at 1256. 
LOST: High school class ring, while gold with dark green stone. lost In tree area In front of LaFortune. If found, please call Anne at 3433. Great sentimental value. 
[
·-.---------·-]
FOR RENT 
--·-...-· .. 
FOR RENT: Ugly Duckling Rent-A-Car. Priced from $7.95 a day and seven cents a mile. Phone 255-2323 for rese!Vations. 
FOR RENT: Efficiency apt in elegant old house near campus. Call Vern x3881 or 287-3132. 
Room In furnished house near NO Apts $65 month.Call 3881 or 287­6234 DINESH or KASH 
Apt. lor rent$50.00 month. Near school. lmmediate.233-1329 
2 apartments Downstairs 7 rooms 3 bedrooms, suni)Orch, washer a dryer In basement Heal Included. Garage available. Upstairs !5 rooms. 2 bedrooms. Sunporch wtth heat Included. Garage also available. Good neighborhood. Call Frank Tesler 272-1012. 
-------------·­
Wish to sublet 4 person NO apt. lor second semester. $90 each/month plus share utilltlel. Secure; 10 minute walk to campus. Call 233-2631 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: Sany reclever and turn­table. Excellent condition. call 234­2284 
42 pieces of China, 9' x 15' rug • both like new. Call233-1738 after 7 p.m. 
Old comics lor sale, alsO baseball cards. paperbacks and hardbacks. KINGS BOOteS. 2033 $. Michigan. Open Monday thru Saturday9:30-6. 
,-----WANTED·--] 
--~-----.. ­
--·-····--· ----· 
NEEDED: ride to Chicago Hgts. area Nov. 7 and back Nov. 9. Will lake one-way ride. Will shore usual. Call Allee at4801. 
RIDERS TO CLEV AREA for T.G. Break or at Ieos! to exit-13 1-80 leaving lues. Nov 25 call· 3002 
Anyone going to or near Denver lor Christmas break? I am desperate lor a ride! Will share expenses. Cal! Mike at 16871!!!! 
ANYONE GOING THROUGH. AROUND. OR EVEN REMOTElY NEAR ASHLAND. KY. OVER THANKSGIVING BREAK. CALL JOE@ 1782. I'M DESPERATE !!I 
GOING TO PENN. ST? N&ed Ri 1jt Any Weekend. Call Mlchael-1615 
1/2 hour of tree entertainment needed lor Goodwill's Thanksgiving lunch lor handicapped -:Uents. Please call 234-1661 
I need ride to Western N.Y. THIS WEEKEND call Rich at 1739 
DESPERATELY need a ridf to WASHINGTON D.C. AREA for Th<.mks­glving vacation. Would like to IE·ave Tuesday. Call Mike at 1601. 
Housemate needed tor seccnd semester to share three-bedroom house near campus. For Information call 234-6293. 
DESPERATE!!! SOUTHERN LADY NEEDS RIDE TO 'BAMA GAME. WILL SHARE USUAL CALL KATHY #1337. 
Ride wanted to and rrom Indiana­polis or Bloomington any weeker•d before Thanksgiving. Will share driving and expense~. Call "685 after 10 p.m. 
WANTED; Ride toAib-Syr,N.Y. area lor T-glving! Dick (1224) 
WANTED: Occasional babysitter lor prof, 2-yr old daughter. 1 mile from campus. Call 6!51" days or 288·6428 evenings. 

Need a Ride to St. louis and bock on the weekend of November 15. Will share usual. Call Gory at 1030. 
I TIC~ETS I 
NEEDED: Air Force TIX Call Kurt at 1074 ~ 
I need 4-5 GA Air Force Tickets. Call 277·1494. 
Air Force GAs and Students needed Call 6251 or 1040 
NEED 4 GAs lor AIR FORCE GAME. Call Susan B. -6945 
For Sale 2 Georgia Tech Tickets Coli Bill #4205 
Needed 2 Studenf Or GA Tickets For Air Force. Please Call Mike at 3828 
Need Air Force fiX...Will pay bucks! Call Larry...1816 
Urgently need many Air Force G.A.'s. Call Jim at 1412. 
INEED 4AIR FORCE TICKETS TOGETHER. CALL324!5 
. -----------·---· HELP! Rich uncle needs 2 GA tlx to Alabama. Please call 284·5179. 
HELP! NEED 2 G.A. OR STUDENT TIX FOR AIR FORCE. CALL TONY AT 3191. 
NEED 4 BAMA TIX. CALL BRIEN 1416 
NEED MANY TICKETS TO Alii FORCE. GA PREFERRED. CALL TIM AT 1650 
IWILL KILL MYSELFif/d"u'tget2 OR4 ALABMMA TIX. This is URGENT!!! Call Gordon at 277-3617. 
EXTRA TERRESTRIAL BE/N(;S 
COMING FOR THE AIR FORCE GAME -I DON'T WANT TO UPSET THEM BY NOT HAVING nx READY. I NEED 4 STUDENT OR GA TIX FOR THAT BIG, CHALLENGING CONTEST. 
CALLj1Jh11 "' 1947, 8661 
SOUTHERN N.D. GRAD DIRELY NEEDS 1 TO 10 GA ALABAMA/N.D. nCKETS. WILL PAY FAIR PREMIUM PRICE. CALL COLLECT AT 504·927-6793. 
Hunter 6 20 267 13.3 1 

57 Crable Holohan 7 11 184 16.7 1 
31 Zavagnin · Masztak 3 6 76 12.7 0 28 , Rudzinski Vehr 6 5 68 13.6 0 
24 Zenek
1
Sweeney 7 4 21 5.2 0 

9 Marshall J. Stone 7 2 19 9.5 0 
10 / Kramer Carter 3 2 12 6.0 0 
9 Kidd Buchanan 7 2 -6 -3.0 0 
0 Krimm Tripp 5 1 17 17.0 0 17 Hankerd M. Boushka 7 1 14 14.0 0 
14 Gibbons 
NOTRE DAME 7 54 672 12.4 2 57 Rice OPPONENTS 7 86 964 11.2 6 45 DeSiato Toran PUNTING G NO YDS AVG LG Gramke 
1. -K-ie_l______7_3_3__1 3-0-7--3-9-.&--69 Duerson 
~~ 
NOTRE DAME 7 33 1307 39.6 69 Lueken 
. OPPONENTS 7 48 1876 39.1 69 Mishler Naylor Clasby 
PUNT RETURNS NO YDS AVG TO LG Bone _O_u_e-rs_o_n_________1_3__1_0_3___7__9---0----2-2I Aut~ 
Krimm 10 66 6.6 0 19 Bell Toran 2 19 9.6 0 11 Brown Gibbons 1 1 1.0 0 1 Spielmaker 
Zavagnin 0 0 0.0 1 0 Barber ---------------------Johnston NOTRE DAME 26 189 7.3 1 22 Morris 
OPPONENTS 15 124 8.3 0 39 D. Boushka 
83  6·10  3  1  0  
52  3·14  2  1  0  
40  4·15  2  0  0  
38 10-53  1  0  0  
32  7-35  0  1  0  
28  7·26  3  0  0  
28  2-5  0  0  
27  0·0  .5  1  1  
23  5-17  2  0  1  
22  0-0  ,  0  0  
20  0-0  1  0  0  
19  2-8  ,  0  0  
17  0·0  3  2  0  
14  3-11  0  (J  0  
10  1·11  1  1  0  
7  0·0  1  0  0  
6  3·15  0  0  0  
6  0-0  0  0  0  
6  0-0  0  1  0  
3  0·0  0  0  0  
3  0·0  0  0  0  
3  0·0  0  0  0  
1  0·0  0  0  0  
1  0-0  0  1  0  
1  0-0  0  0  0  
1  0·0  0  0  0  
1  0·0  0  0  0  
1  0·0  0  0  0  
1  0-0  0  0  0  


NOTRE DAME  494 53-220  26  10  2  
OPPONENTS  729 44·139  14  7  0  
SCORING  G TO PAT  R·PA S  FG  TP  

Oliver  7  015-19  0·0  0 15·18  
J. Stone  7  5  0·0  0·0  0  0-0  
Carter  3  4  0·0  0-0  0  0·0  
Kiel  7  3  0-0  0·1  0  0-0  
Barber  7  2  0-0  0-0  0  0-0  
Holohan  7  1 0-0  0-0  0  0·0  
Krimm  7  1 0-0  0·0  0  0·0  
Hunter  6  1 0·0  0·0  0  0-0  
Courey  5  1 0-0  0·1  0  0-0  
Gibbons  7  1 0·0  0·0  0  0·0  
Zavagnin  7  1 0-0  0·0  0  0-0  
McGarry  7  1 0·0  0-0  0  0·0  
Buchanan  7  1 0·0  0·0  0  0-0  
Bell  2  1 0·0  0·0  0  0·0  
Vehr  6  0 0·0  1·1  0  0·0  
Johnston  7  0 , ·1  0-0  0  0·0  


•Includes solos and assists
60 

30 ----......~.-~.....,..~ ..... -····""' ... 
24 18 


12 

i•-•••n••---•~
6 
6 6 6 6 
6 6 6 6 2 
NOTRE DAME 7 2316·20 1·3 0 15·18 201 OPPONENTS 7 10 4·4 1·6 0 4·7 78 
INT. RETURNS  NO  YDS  AVG  TO  LG  
Krimm  2  67  33.5  1  49  
Gibbons  2  55  27.5  1  53  
Duerson  1  21  21.0  0  21  
Masini  1  6  6.0  0  6  
Zavagnin  1  6  6.0  0  6  
Desisto  1  1  1.0  0  1  

NOTRE DAME 8 156 19.5 2 53 OPPONENTS 6 26 4.3 0 20 

MEN'S FOOTBALL Keenan 9. Zahm 0 Holy Cross 7. So. in 0 St. Ed"s 16. Carroll 0 
WOMEN"S FOOTBALl 

Breen·Phlllips 22, Walsh 8 Badin 20. farley 16 Lewis 18, Lyons 0 
Men's Racquetball Pairings Ruddick (8651) vs. Moeller (8657) Mcfeeters (277·7659) vs. Bali (1574) Butler (1210) vs: Martinez (8646) Burton (1763) vs. Jakopin (8220) Yardy (3578) vs. Hatfield (1212) Dohopolski (3018) vs. Jensen (6827) McGowan (2257) vs. Johnston (8673) freedman (232·0973) vs. Martin (671 O) 
Sautter (1802) vs. Talgiani (277·4085) Mirondo (6741) vs. Toerney (1153) Shank (B718) vs. Winkler (1575) 
······-··-···-·----···----··---·-------·-----·-·--·------------·--·----­
-----------------------·-----------------. 
:.._:, · l.~.;~.f·("1 .Hb nHIS• t,• rt-:~ 1=-lyt"i) t·.,..! .:~ !' f1, r.vn •1rhS ~"'t ,)r t;:> fhe ,._.,.,, .. ·•· .vt·,., h 'h•\ td ·-, tqr· Th•· OLser...-t,. ~+ .-:~; .~.d: :t: cen~ c•.i~s•flf~ds. 
•#1,,, d_,~ ·~'-'•·q 1 t rfl._!:~. 1()~)())" t~ ') f)(J :> rr' .!\! ,, 1 d:i::.. 1 -~H1S """'USt ht' 
: I I o [ I 1 ~ • , ' 


Open Stage tonight at THE NAZZ! 
Just as the well Intentioned lew speckled the trees with white, so shall the masses transform them to their proper GREEN. 
TUTORS NEEDED 

1.14 yr. old, Reading aBasic Math. 
2.N.D. Sophomore. Mechanics II. 3.Local grade school. Math a 
Reading. Contact Volunteer 5e1Vices, 7308 
Student Senate was not nixed ­
it will exist! For all thoseInterested In 
running lor representatives there 
will be a mandatory meeting on 
Monday, November 10 at 8:00 on 
the second noor LaForune. 

Ride needed to Purdue this weekend. Tim 1171 
Do you remember 1952? Rob does. 
TOMB -You still owe us a dinnerllll Chinese or otherwise. 
GIRLS FROM C.V. THANKS FOR THE GREAT TIME LAST WEEK. THURSDAY WAS GREAT AND SO WERE FRIDAY AND SAT. I'Ll TAKE OUT THE TRASH ANYTIME!! I'M HEARIN' THAT MANIII LOVE, FRED 
TUTORS WANTED 

1.17 
yr. old boy, Reading & Phonics. 

2.11 
yr. old boy, Reading -Male preferred. 

3.17 
yr. old boy, general tutor. Contact Volunteer Services. 7308 


VOLUNTEERS WANTED Assist Really Abled People In taking handi· copped people bowling every other Saturday, 1 :30·•:00. 
Contact Volunteer Services. 7308 
AmNTION NATIONAL SKI PATROL MEMBERS! We need your help. FOOD, TRANSPORTAnON and FUN PfOvlded. Call Larry, 277-0010 ror Info. Call TODAY! 

Have you ever seen Yoboo naked? Is Doug SHALLOW? Where DOES Spofs talent lie? (not in his fingers) Is there guilt by association? Is talking to Dennis like communicat­ing with an aching void? Are you from Utaaaah? We'll find out at the party! P.S. No shots! 
This weeks exciting moose joke: Who made the trains In the Yukon run on time? 
A: Mooselini. Hmmmmmmmmm......... 
A warning to pedestrians. Some 
exceptionally bizarre and wild 
mooses will be out this Saturday 
night Don't sc.y you haven't been 
warned... 
Ryan Ver Berkmoose 

TO JIM. PETE. SULLY AND FLAME: HANG LOOSE. WE WILL THANKS FOR EVERYTHING!!! THE LEMANS FOOTBALL TEAM 
Terese-Party downiiiJonlghl at Van Holen!!!!! 
MK, 
Just checklng to see if off-campus 
people actually read the Personals 
The corn went ever big. 
TOTH.I 

Happy Birthday to myGeisha Girl. Hope you have as much fun today as I hod last Friday. 
G. I. Joe 

HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY MIKE BENNEn!!! 
eob 

Will Pippin be a "wanderer" or a "searcher?" ASK MikE KEltY!l! CONGRATS MIKE!!! 
-· SHIRLEV,HOPE YOU'RE FEELING 
BEnER SOON. TIM 
Thank you Chris, Susie. Sandy, PaHi, Amy, JoJo, Moura. Mary, Tina Margaret, Mary 0 and other chaffer, skipper, loser or twinkle who helped make my birthday so special. I love you all tons! 
laurk> 



._..., 

Thursday, November 6, 1980-page 16
orts 

For Irish 

Johnso~ tutors defensemen 
~)'Mike Olenik SporfJ Writer 

As Notre Dame enters the final stretch of the 1980 season, im­posing schedule, it is beginning 
i to strike many consistent ob­
u t 
servers that the team is gaining
1 
momentum at a furious pace. \X!ith only four regular season contest remaining, the Irish seemed to have built an at­mosphere of genuine confi­dence. 

Ohviouslv, much of this con­fidence co~es with the pleasant suprises provided by the of­fensive line and the steady play of freshman quarterback Blair Kiel, but in many minds, the edge of the Notre Dame team seems to be coming from its defensive unit. 
In tracking their efforts since the 1\lichigan game, the defense shows steady improvement in all phases of its play. Whether it be big plays or basic tenacity, Joe Yonto's group continues . to exhibit traits characteristic of a winning football team. 
As big a factor as any in this improving defense has beenJim Johnson's secondary, which shows as much intensity and potential as any of the other defensive units. Burdened with the task of replacing key players with either unproven or fresh­man performe'rs,-Johnson has molded a unit capable ofplaying 
l ( 
well against the run and the pass. Beginning with John Krimm's interception return in the Michigan game, the defensive backfield has had its share of 
crucial plays in contributing to 
Notre Dame's perfect record. 
The knowledge and leadership that Johnson provides to his players comes from a varied background in the coaching ranks. After playing under Dan Devine at Missouri and spending a year with the Buffalo BHls, Johnson embarked on the coaching trail that eventually brought him to Notre Dame. Stops on the way to South Bend included Joplin High School in Joplin, Missouri; Missouri Southern, where he was head coach; Drake University, where he was defensive coordinator; and then Indiana University, where he spent four years as linebacker coach and defensive 
coordinator under Lee Corso. 
Upon arriving at Notre Dame four years ago, Johnson received the responsibility of shaping the defensive backfield into a unit capable of playing the brand of ball desired by coach Devine. 
Adopting the attitudes and philosophies of Notre Dame football has been no problem for 
Johnson, who has the reputation 
of relating very well to the 
players under his guidance. 
"Every coach has his own philosophies and techniques, including myself, but many of coach Devine's basic philoso­phies have rubbed off on me," says Johnson. "We both realize the importance of discipline and the necessity ofeliminating little mistakes in order to have a winning football team." 
With Dave Duerson and Tom 
DeSiato incurring _injuries thus 

Bill Rothstein .heads hotne to face brother on ice 

By Rri(lll Beglane be out there playing against the Sports Wni'er Gophers. We want to beat them bad." 
. Road trips to Minnesota are a Tom scored his first goal for home<.:oming to Notre Dame left Minnesota last weekend during a wing Bill Rothstein for more than sweep of Michigan in the Twin one reason. Cities. The G lphers rank as the 
First. and most obvious, Bill is only undefe.· ced team in the a native ofGrand Rapids, Minn.; WCBA with a 4-0 record (5-0 a hotbed for high school hockey. 
overall). 
And secondlv, when the Irish travel to Minn~apolis this week­end for a two-game series with the Western Collegiate Hockey Association-leading Minnesota Gophers, he'll be going up against another Rothstein for the second time in his three seasons as a Notre Dame forward. 
Tom Rothstein, a freshman forward for the Gophers, is the third of the Rothstein clan to play in the WCHA. Bill also skated against his brother, John, who ended a career with Minnesota­Duluth two years ago. Waiting in the wings is Paul, the youngest of 
J the Rothstein boys, a sophomore at Grand Rapids High School.
~ Bill Rothstein. 
Anv thoughts on playingj against Tom? Bill, meanwhile, ranks tied for "Not really," says Bill, who second in scoring for the Irish 
scored the game-winning goal with seven points. He broke a 2-2 for the Irish in a 3-2 win over tie Tuesday at Bowling Green in Bowling Green Tuesday. the third period to spark Notre 
"I don't think either one of us Dame to its third win this year. 1s thinking that much about it. "Bill is a verv smart forward," There's no big rivalry between says Irish coach Lefty Smith. "He us-and we didn't say anything 

[continued on page 13]
about it over the summer. I'll just 
far this season, Johnson has had 
to turn to some inexperienced 
and yet suprisingly effective 
players such as Stacey 'Foran and 
Chris Brown. Although showing 
some concern over inexperience 
in such a do-or-die position, Johnson seems . more than pleased with the performance of these two freshmen. 
"You hate to play a freshman this early, because mistakes are inevitable. After all, an experi­enced player has the capabilities ofpicking up changes in patterns of the receivers mote than an inexperienced one," says 
Johnson. "Yet, despite the difficulty of the position, Stacey and Chris have performed very well for us. We try not to force too much information on them too quickly, and we think it helps them to get comfortable that much easier." 
Of course, the presence of tri­captain Tom Gibbons along with the experience ofJohn Krimm makes things a little less difficult for Johnson, who sees the older players as vital factors in the secondary's play as a whole. 
"They all have tremendous talent, but you can't beat ex­perience. Having the combina­tion of players like Gibbons, Krimm and DeSiato with younger ones like Duerson and 
[continued on page 13] 



G>rrigan : it 's a 'great experience ' 
···"4. ·. 

john Krimm's {19) experience in the defensive b(/ckfieldis a gre(/t (/sset (ICCording to jim johnson. (Photo by john M(lcor) 
EDITOR'S NOTE: This is the surrounding where there aren't a 
fin(// (lrfic/e i11 ll. three-part series whole lot of 'we' activities. I just i11troducing the Notre Dame com­think it's very important to do rmmity to the University's 11ew athletic that. director, Eugene Corrig(/11, who will "The other thing is that the 
repl(/ce retiring Edward "Moose" institution has to want to do it. If Kr(lmeonj(lnllary 5, 1981. Corrigan the institution wants to do it­will be finishing his term in the J(lme they want to have a reasonably post (If the Univemi'y of Virginia on broad program-then they've December 31. Associ(/fe Sports Editor just got to find a way to fund it." Mich(/el Ortmdn rece11tly spent (/ day Ah hah -funding! Sports like with Corrig(/n on the Charlottesville, tennis and swimming and Va., f(/mpus. lacrosse and volleyball just aren't Tod(ly: Corrigan's Athletic going to pay for themselves, and Philosophy. football and basketball can't be by Mich(/el Ortman counted on to support them Associ(/fe Sports Editor forever. That is what many suspect drew Notre Dame to 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. -Gene Corrigan-his ability to There is no doubt that Gene raise money for athletics without Corrigan was made for intercol­cutting into an institution's legiate athletics. Or perhaps in academic excellence. God's masterplan, He made in­Where funds are focused for tercollegiate athletics for Gene the non-revenue sports can be a Corrigan. The two go together major factor, especially when the like AuntJemima's pancakes and money is limited. It seems that her syrup. Corrigan would rather spend the 
Corrigan doesn't over-em-money on the essentials of phasize the money-making having a team-the coaching, 
· sports like football and basket­facilities, equipment, etc ball, although he realizes that few -than the essentials ofhaving a athletic programs could survive great team -namely scholar­without their revenue. He loves ships. Yet if you can afford . all sports equally. excellence, then why not have it? 
"I think a total program is "We're at the point heru along really important," he says, with a with some other schools in our record to prove he means it. In conference, where we're going to the last nine years at Virginia, have to start to pull back on the Corrigan has added 20 non-profit scholarships part," Corrigan· 'bearing sports to its varsity pro­says. "That gets so expensive gram. "I believe in athletics, at that you start saying, 'Well, I'm whatever level-it really doesn't going to drop sports.' Now wait a make any differece -and I think minute-before you drop intercollegiate athletics are sports, drop scholarships. Don't great. Ifit's tennis, ifit'ssoccer-take away the opportunity to it doesn't make any difference compete. To me, that makes a what it is. It's a great experience. whole lot more sense than trying "I think it's a 'we' activity in a to sustain an attitude of, 'If we 
can't be great, we're not going to 
have it.' 

"As long as the interest is 
there-as long as it's a viable 
team_-as long as there's interest 
in people being part of that 
team -the worst thing you can 
do is drop it." 

To try to put all of this into 
perspective, Notre Dame's foot­
ball and basketball teams ob­
viously make more than enough 
money to support themselves. In 
the past, they have produced 
enough revenue to take care of 
the rest of the school's athletic 
programs. Yet in the last year or 
so, the University, like many 
others, has been confronted with 
considerable economic pres­
sures. Last spring, a moratorium 
was placed on future scholar­
ships to non-profit sports, which 
included some 40 scholarships in 
six men's sports. 

When the smoke had cleared, 
hockey had been reduced from 20 to 18 grants-in-aid, the other 20 remained, and Notre Dame began to comply with Title IX, offering its first scholarships in women's basketball. Yet there is really no permanent solution to . the problems which arose last spring, and many hope that Corrigan will be able to do for Notre Dame what he did at Virginia-help the athletic department grow in the face of 
spiraling costs. 

Corrigan's athletic philosophy 
wouldn't be complete without 
discussin~ the way a school like 
Notre Dame, or even Virginia 
for that matter, integrates 
academic(lnd athletic excellence. 
Lcontinued on page 13] 








