
---~---------~-----------------~~------------------------~ 
,. , , Springsteen at N.D. -Page 2 

VOL. XV., NO. 65 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Bad breaks for domers; 0-C Crime wave continues 
By Mary Fran Callahan Senior Copy Editor 
Crime did not take a holiday this past Thanksgiving weekend, for two students reported thefts and break-ins at their off-campus residences. 
A Notre Dame Avenue resident who asked to remain anonymous said a thief forcibly entered his home Saturday and stole a stereo and clothes valued at $800. 
An assailant shattered a window Saturday night at a Sarin Street residence, but fled when one of the house's occupants discovered him, according to a resident of the house. Though he escaped, the assailant did not have time to steal anything. 
An occupant of the Notre Dame Avenue residence said a thief apparently tried to enter through the back door. After breaking a glass storm door, the thief was unable to break the back door's lock. He then shattered the front storm door, cut a hole in the front door, unlocked it from the inside and entered. 
Two students were staying at the house over break but were not at home at the time ofthe burglary. When they returned homeSaturday evening, they discovered their house had been burglarized and promptly called the police. 
"This is the second time it's happened," the student said. "I think we should just hang a sign in front saying there's nothing left." 
Although the student said the police were cooperative, he expressed a helpless attitude saying, "They just filled out a report. You know there's nothing they can do." 
One of the house's residents found a comb in his bedroom which the thief apparently dropped. The students turned the comb over to the police in hopes that fingerprints could be traced. They have not yet, however, received any word from the police. 
"Times must really be tough. We don't have anything left," the student concluded 
In the second incident, an oq:upant ofthe Sarin Street house stated that an assailant broke into his house Saturday evening. The student said one ofhis house mates was sleeping upstairs when he heard some glass smashed downstairs. 
According to the student, his housemate ran downstairs and 
{continued on page 4/ 



Supreme Court ponders female draft 

WASHINGTON (AP)-The 
Supreme Court said yesterday it 
will decide whether any U.S. 
military draft, or draft registra­
tion, must include women. 
In a case likely to become the 
most closely watched contro­
versy now before the high court, 
the justices will decide whether a 
male-only draft unlawfully dis­
criminates against men. 
Historically, young American 
men have been required to 
register for possible military ser­
vice and to serve. Young women 
face no such obligations. 
A three-judge federal court panel in Philadelphia last July struck down the system, citing unconstitutional sex bias. 
If the Supreme Court were to uphold that ruling, Congress would have to amend the Military Selective Service Act to include women as potential draftees. 
Despite the lower court's ru­ling, some 4 million men were required to register for the draft last July. If registration and the draft are ruled unconstitutional, the goverment might have to destroy all records of that regis­tration. 
There has been no military draft since 1973. Even if the male-only registration is upheld, Congress still would have to pass a new law before call-ups could be resumed 
While arguments before the Supreme Court likely will be limited to the validity of draft registration, the three-judge panel's decision struck down the entire Military Selective Service Act, which includes induction as well as registration. 
The case does not involve the separate policy of not assigning female enlistees to combat duty. 
The court's eventual decision likely will not be announced until next May or June. Oral arguments probably will be held sometime in March. 
The legal challenge that led to the July 1R ruling was filed in 1971 by three Penn~ylvania men as a protest to the Vietnam war. It had gone unnoticed in the federal courts for years but was revived last December when President Carter reinstituted draft registration in the wake of the Soviet Union's intervention in Afghanistan. 
On July 19, Justice William J. Brennan Jr. allowed the govern­ment to go ahead with its July 21 registration ofalll9-and 20-year­old men. He predicted, correctly it turns out, that the govern­ment's appeal of the three-judge court's ruling would be accepted for review by the full Supreme Court. 
The court's decision conceiv­ably could have an effect on the future of the proposed Equal Rights Amendment. Opponents to ERA have pointed to the drafting of women as one of the would have to use the same amendment's evils, but such an "strict scrutiny" to cases of obligation now could come alleged sexual bias as they now about without the ERA. do in cases of alleged racial ·or 
If the ERA were to become religious discrimination. part of the Constitution, courts 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1980 
Syria, Jordon step up 
•

warmongertng 
DAMASCUS, Syria (AP)­Fears of a ,;econd w~r in the Middle East heightened yester­day on reports that sy;ia has 50,000 troops and 1,200 tanks on 

Jordan's border. Jordan moved up tanks and troops and said it would not shoot first but would defend the country against at­tack. 
A top Soviet official was in Damascus to ratify a Syrian­Soviet treaty and the United States considered a Jordanian request for arms. 
Tension between the Arab neighbors result from con­flicting positions on the Iran-Iraq war and Syrian charges that 

Jordan supports Islamic funda­mentalists trying to overthrow the Syrian government. 
In Washington, the Carter administration was considering a shipment of military spare parts and ammunition to Jordan and one u.s. official rated the chances of a conflict at better than 50-50. 

Jordan sent lists of arms and spare parts it wants from the United States and a decision may come soon on the requests. 
Informed sources said Syria had 50,000 troops and 1,200 tanks on the border, with three divisions massed along the stretch that commands the main highway linking Jordan and Syria. The initial buildup of 25,000 men and 600 tanks began on No.v. 22, the sources said. 
Prime Minister Mudar Badran ofJordan told the parliament in Amman: "we shall not shoot first, but we shall, defend our country against whatever attack or whichever enemy." 
{continued on page 4/ 

Criminal accusations 
SMCsecurity refutes charges 
By Mary Agnes Carey Staff Reporter 

Charges made by Saint Mary's junior Megan McCready that on October 15 she spotted a Saint Mary's se-curity guard attempt t6 gain entry into a car parked in the Madeleva Hall parking area have been challenged by a Saint Mary's official. 
"I could find no substance to the allegation," replied Saint Mary's College Controller Jason 
D. Lindower to Ms. McCready's statement. 
As Ms. McCready and com­panion Tim Connors, a Holy Cross College student, left Madeleva Hall near 1 p.m., they noticed a Saint Mary's security guard at a vacant automobile parked across from their car and two cars over. 
"At first," McCready ex­plained, "I thought he was giving the car a ticket, but he just kept walking around the car. He pulled an unbent coat hanQer from his security car, tried to stick it in the driver's side door of the parked car, but he took it out, left the car alone and drove away. 
"He knew we were watching him. It didn't look like a com­plete effort," she said. "It was definitely a SMC security guard driving a SMC security car. To me it seems unethical for a security guard to do this. Actu· ally, it stinks." 
Mitch Fe1kes, a Notre Dame senior and owner of the parked car, stated he had not requested Saint Mary's security to enter his automobile. The vehicle, which did not have an ND sticker, was illegally parked in the Madeleva lot. 
"They (SMC security) put a notice on the car-not a traffic violation. They just put a printed sticker that said not to park there again. I've gotten a couple of those notices before, but when I'm in a hurry I do park there," Feikes said. 
Lindower stated that Saint Mary's security only enters a parked car when persons lock their keys inside the car and need assistance or if they· are asked to turn offparking lights when a car owner has forgotten to turn them off. Lindower also ex­plained that there will be "no formal investigation without her (McCready) filing a complaint." 
"I still saw them," McCready said, "and I don't ·see how security can deny in one word what I saw in fifteen minutes." 
"I'd like to make sure that S3.int Mary's security takes steps to review their policies and make sure their officers know what the policies are," Feikes stated 
NeWS Brieb ·~ Tuesday, December2, 19so-page2 
c===~======~================================= 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 


Warren Christon her, deputy secretary 
of state, flew to Algeria last nighfwith the U.S. response to Iran's request for clarification on terms far freeing the American hostages, the State Department said. There, Christopher will meet with Algerian Foreign Minister Mohamed Benyahia and Algerian officials who have been serving as intermediaries between the United States and Iran. The Americans will be prepared to answer any questions the Algt-rians might have regarding the U.S. position, David Nall, a dep;1.rtment spokesman, said.-AP 

Police have seized 12 doe:s, most of 
hem badly mangled, and arrested 11 people in Sa~sio, Ca~if., 1 esterday. Officers said they also seized $20,000 ~nd trophtes, ;1pparently from staged dog fights in Tijuana, Mextco. Ten men ·md a woman were arrested at the Mexican border on Sunday :md booked in San Diego County for investig~tion ?ffelonious possession and transport offighting dogs. Pohce satd the group apparently was returning to this country from wee~end d~g lights in Tijuana. Steve Crane, an animal.contro~ offtcer, ~~td ·.ome of th~ English bulls and Staffo~ds.htre t:-rners we~e. so 11adlv chewed up a veterinarian couldn t fmd vems toadmmtster med-ication."-AP 
Polish Communist Parcy chief ;;ranislaw Kania said yesterday that militant independent labor union activities are undermining communist rule in Poland and r hreatening peace in Europe. Kania a~dressed the ope.ning ofa rwo-day plenary session of the party s cent_ral con;;mttte~ and issued a stern warning against what he descnbed as presttge or downright political strikes." In his nationally-broadcast spe~ch yesterday, Kania acknowledg~d the existence of the fledglmg independent trade union movement and offered to ~.ooper~te with labor leaders who show restraint. But he added, It tshtgh time to sober up, to understand that the basic condition. and chance for a further favorable development of the nation ts an immediate halt to activities weakening and undermining the functioning of the (communist) people's state." He said such activities "threaten to eventually destabilize the peaceful order 
of Europe."-AP 
French presiden tvalery Giscardd'Estaing's supporters lost two seats to the opposing Socialists in special elections last weekend that French commentators yesterday called "a warning" five months before presidential elections. The neo-Gaullist party, still the strongest component of the government coalition but which constantly snipes at govern­ment policy, also picked up one seat at the expense of the president's group, the Union for French Democracy, or UDF. The independent daily Le Monde, while warning of drawing excessive conclusions from special elections, liqf.f<it.he results with polls which since September have shown more French voters displeased than pleased with the performances of Giscard d'Estaing and Premier Raymond Barre.-AP 

Soviet dissident Andrei D. 
Sakharov and the current chief of Moscow's "Helsinki" human rights group addressed a joint appeal vesterda\' to the Madrid European Security conference on behalf of imprisoned Soviet physicist Yuri Orlov. In an open letter, Sakharov and the Helsinki gr~p leader, Naum Meiman, noted reports that Orlov was placed in solitary confinement for six months for attempting to smuggle a research paper on quantum logic out of his prison camp and that he has been deprived ofmeetings with his wife. Orlov was an early member of the Helsinki group, formed to monitor Soviet compliance with the 1975 Helsinki agreements. He was sentenced in 1978 to seven years' imprisonment and five years ofinternal exile on charges of anti-Soviet activity. The Madrid conference is reviewing compliance with the Helsinki agreements by the 35 states that signed them. -AP 

, Accumulations of three-five 
inches of snow possible by early this morning. Heavier accumulations can be expected near Lake Michigan. Windy and cold today with snow changing to flurries by afternoon. Highs in the mid to upper 20s. Mostly cloudy and very cold tonight. Lows in the mid to upper teens. Cloudy with a chance of snow tomorrow. Highs in the upper 20s to low 
30s.-AP 
Inside Tuesday 



The 'Boss' is-coming! 
lfRalphJaccodine never does another thing as Student Union Concert Commissioner, no one will probably mind. 
Paul 
And if Student Union doesn't bother to 

Mullaney
contract any more concerts for this school year, no one will probably mind. 
Editor-in-chief That's because BruceSpringsteenis coming to the ACC-with theE Street Band, of course. 

rampantly.

It's finally official-the contract is finally Springsteen was getting top dollar in the signed. This year's hottest rock tour will stop at country's major markets. So why would he want Notre Dame on Monday evening, Jan. 26. The to sacrifice guaranteed revenue from large civic 
announcement ends months ofsp~fjllation. And 
crowds for smaller campus audiences? (At the 
for J accodine and Student Unio"g,p~J:ector Rich 
beginning ofhis tour, Springsteen did stop at the 
Coppola, it ends months of fing~r-9f6Ssing. 
University of Michigan.)
"We've been negotiating and t<fhegotiating "I really don't know," Jaccodine shrugged. 
over and over," said Jaccodine. "\fe're just so "He's one of the few groups making money this lucky to get him." , / 
year on tour. He picks and chooses his arenas. 
The concert is being put on byJip's Student He goes wherever he wants. I guess he was justUnion, in association with Sunsi)iP..~~romotions 
really happy in his previous visits here." 
of Indianapolis. Ticket prices:na;vt; yet to be It would seem obvious that Jaccodine andannounced, but one would safely b¢t a padded 
Coppola to sweeten the pot some forACC seat will sell for at least $12. .· 
•· •·• ·.. come to ND. In other words,All of which shouldn't makeany difference to 
' won't be making the profit itNotre Dame and Saint Mary's students. While 
on a concert of this mag-most touring acts are currently hati9-g a tough 

go of it ·in these times of economic instability, usually gets a good per-Springsteen is, for the mostpart, livipg it up as -usually four to five this year's top draw. .· ..· .,Delrcctrit. "But we'll make hardly 
Additionally, Springstefn was saip to have ; .... ·. .. concert. We just wanted to been quite pleased withi previous ,ACC per-get him . · re: formances-the most recent ofj which was One thitigthathelpedJaccodine and Coppola 
September 9, 1978. Mostof those students who come to tenps with Springsteen and the E attended the '78 concert would cori~ider that Streeters was that they were able to offer performance as the best'show they have seen at numerp4sopen dates at the ACC. 
ND. ' l ! "Wtl*'got together with the people from the 
"Since he's been her¢ before, he's kLnda loyal ACQ and offered virtually a whole month full of t0 .Notre Dame," saidJaccodine. "I think that op~l,t.dat;,~-"'!9 the!Jt," said Jaccodine. "That's had a lotto do with the decision to corp.e back. what youve got to do to get Springsteen. You know, he~!J:n m~ke more mqn~y in other Vf!ttb the speculation over and Springsteen places. He is, in effect, losing mqriey hyfOming . finally committed, thequestions will now turn to here." . . ! .,.,. · \ •·. #"""'~ the distribution of tickets~ how much? when? 
Jaccodine and GpPPohl h~ye .9een ~JfUgglmg where? how many? etc. ! through months; pf<negotiadon!!) 'with the "We still don't know when the tickets will go Springsteen people. They have had to make onsale,"Jaccodinesaid. "Itlooksgoodthatwe'll significant concessions L mostly monetary"'-have a lottery before everyone goes.home for for this one-night stand. ~evertheless, they Christmas break. persisted in their efforts. ····· .· "And we're going to do everything possible to 
"When we first took over in April,'.! said get a ticket for every student who wants orie. We Coppola, "we set Springsteen as the conqert goal want this to beaNotre Dame show-a sho\V for for the school year. Andwe've been working on our students. We know people from Chicago, bringing him here evet since. Fort Wayne and all over will be trying to get · "For over a year diey kept postp~ming the tickets for this show. We just want as many release of his new all?."llm (The River), ~owe kept students to see it as possible." ~ getting put on hold!' t While the vital ticket informatipn is shi)rtly 
When the alburp. was finally released in forthcoming, one interesting question remains. October and the first leg of the tour finally Will Bruce Springsteen, in the process ofselling started, things didn't necessarily fall into place out all over, sell out an arena that is very difficult so easily for Jaccodine and Coppola. to sell out? After all, only 5,126 people came to 
The album and the tour both drew top ratings the ACC in 1978 to see him, and only 4,173 instantaneously, and Springsteen concert turned out for his 1976 show. If Springsteen tickets began to sell like never before. does sell out the ACC, he would join the Springsteen was booked at major city arenas exclusive ranks of Johnny Cash, the Fifth night after night. Four shows slated for Madison Dimension, Sonny & Cher, Elvis Presley (twice), Square Garden sold out in a matter of a few EltonJohn and Kenny Rogers as one of the few hours, and the flame spread rapidly-and performers ever to completely fill the facility. 

The_OhserY-

ADVENT 
Derig11 Edlfor ....... Ryan Ver Berkm.oes 
Assisto11t Design Editor ...... Patty Hulley Loyo11t Stoff . ............ Diane Mazurek 

~ ,. 

PENANCE
Night tethnicion .. ......... Tina Turlock News Eddor .............. Tom Jackman Copy Edlfor ............. Carol Mullaney 

, • Sports Copy Editor .... .... Beth Huffman Tl'/Jists. ................... Linda Hewitt 

SERVICE 
Cindy Jones Systems Techn/£ian ........ Bob Huffstodt 

(Followed by OpportunityND Day EdHor ......... ..... Barb Biehl Ad Design ................ Bruce Oakley 
for Private Confession) 
Photographer .............. .Jackie Wasni 
-


Sacred Heart Church ­
.. 

-

Wednesday, Dec. 3 ­
-
The Observer (USPS 598 920) I~ 

10 P.M.
published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation 
periods. The Obuner ls8ubllshed 

SPONSORED BY 
by the students of Notre ame and 
Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions 

THE OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class 
-
postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 

46556. a ­
The Observer Is a member of the • 
Associated Press. All reproduction canpus
rights are reserved. 

miniStry 


' 
The Observer Tuesday, December 2, 1980-page 3 

A problem? 




SMC analyzes drinking habits 
By Anne Jane Dregalla Staff Reporter 
"Thinking About Drinking at Saint Mary's College" has been a major emphasis on campus this year as a result of a report published last year by the col­
lege's  Alcohol  Education  
Council.  
The report is  a  result of a  

1979 survey taken .at Saint Mary's. On drinking patterns, it was reported that "roughly 84 percent of the students at SMC drink," although the national average for college women is 75 percent. 
"Heavy" drinking, theareaof most concern, is defined by alcohol researchers as "five or more drinks per sitting at least once per week." The percent­age of Saint Mary's students classified as" heavy" drinkers is 15 percent, opposed to a national average of 4 percent. 
These are numbers which have caused the campus-wide con~.-ern. However, the Alcohol Education Council believes the important concern is not the numbers but "whether the quality of drinking is heavy, irresponsible and problem­atic." 
Many students, though, seem to be questioning not only the validity of that survey, but the overall emphasis on the drink­ing "problem" at SMC, along with the actual effectiveness of the Alcohol Education Council. 
In reference to the survey, Susan Tamborini, Residence Director ofHoly Cross Hall and veteran member of the Council says she believes the survey to be "1 00 percent valid." She re­ferred to the fact that "Dr. Levey (former professor in charge of the survey) woulrl not do a sloppy job, I saw the com­puter print-outs myself and I surveyed the staff. Those staff results however, were not in­cluded in the survey." 
Sr. KarolJackowski, director of the Alcohol Education ·pro­gram, believes the survey had a "sound design in itself, though a small population of students ·vas sampled. Since it was a class project it was designed to sur­
vey a small group." 
Sr. Jackowski also said a 

sample was taken from each 
class, although no off-campus 
students were surveyed. "It 
gave us a good profile, the in­
formation was very valid. We do 
intend, however, to do another 
survey next spring with a larger 
sample. 
Sr. Jackowski recognizes that 

there seems to be a "big deal" 
attitude among the student at 
SMC and feels, "our biggest 
problem is that people don't 
think it's a problem. Drinking is 
so accepted by parents, society, 
and even the Administration, it 
has become the norm. I would 
say some of the Faculty and 
Administration also share this 
"big deal" attitude. Our push 
this year is to make people 
think about their drinking ex­
perience and that of their 
friends. We're finding that the 
more they think about it, the 
more they think there may be a 
problem." 
Tamborini also feels the 

problem is not overrated, "pre­
viously, when alcohol and prob­
lem drinking was talked about 
on this campus people laughed, 
then they woke up and realized 
it was a problem. No, it's not 
overrated, the difference is it's 
just talked about more." 
A point that Kathy Martin, a Peer Assistant in the program, emphasizes is the figure in the survey which states that a ma­jority of the heavy drinkers on campus are freshmen and sophomores. This parallels the fact that the "big deal" attitude is found mostly among upper­classmen according to Miss Martin. Debbie Cook, a fresh­man Peer Assistant, agrees the problem is not overempha­sized. She is a resident ofRegina Hall, a 70 percent freshman dorm, and says she encounters alcohol problems often. 
The Alcohol Education Council, composed ofstudents, f..tculty, staff and administra­tion, has stated its purpose as "concerned with the irrespon­sible use of alcohol at Saint Mary's, and encouraging re­sponsible drinking." They em­
'· 
I. 

SMC spiritual survey: 
. 

a guide to the future 
By Mary Leavitt Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's Spiritual Commissioner Kathleen Hackett has just finished con­ducting a survey assessing stu­dents' level ofinterest in spiritual activities. Ms. Hackett hopes to use the results to tailor programs to each particular dormitory on 
the Saint Mary's campus and to incorporate these programs into the Personal Growth Series. 
"What we're trying to do this is offer something for as far as spiritual ac­
tivities go," she commented. The Spiritual Commission has 
sponsored numerous activities this year. A dinner was held on October 28 by the Social Justice Commission, the World 
Coalition and the Spiritual Commission. From this 
a support group developed. The group meets periodically to discuss common 
Iems and their possible solu­
--~---·-·--·­
tions. 
The Spiritual Commission has also held two retreats so far this semester. The first retreat, held on November 14, centered upon images and styles of prayer. On November 23, the Commission sponsored a "Day ofReflectiop" for seniors, during which the students discussed their futures and the things they felt were most important in their lives. Support groups developed sub­sequent to these retreats. 
In addition to planning ac­tivities, the Spiritual Commis­sion is also attempting to work more closely with Campus Ministry this year. In the past, the two groups have existed as separate entities on campus, but Ms. Hackett feels that more can be achieved by the two working together. 
"We've had a good turnout so far this year," Ms. Hackett said. "I feel as if we are really needed 
and can add to each student's life." 
phasize prevention of alcohol 
abuse and assistance to students 
with drinking problems 
through their programs ofedu­
cation and intervention. 
The Council has instituted 

the following services to fulfill 
their goals: Alcohol Education 
Workshops, designed to in­
crease drinking awareness. 
These workshops are to be 
given within each section with 
the RA as instructor. The pro­
gram includes a questionnaire, 
a copy of the Council's survey 
publication, a twenty-minute 
film on responsible drinking, 
another publication on throw­
ing a party, and finally, section 
discussion. 
The Peer Assistance Pro­gram, which has been instituted under the training and super­vision of the Counseling Center, offers an intervention service to provide direct help to intoxicated students and their roommates and friends. This service is available each Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights from 9 p.m. to 12 mid­night by calling the office lo­cated in Regina. Help is also available from the Peer Assistant on call in her room until 2 a.m. The list of Peer Assistants is posted at each hall desk. 
The point the council is trying to impress in this area is that drinking is not a disci­plinary problem, it is a health problem. This program is a health service. The Peer Assistants help remains con­fidential and is not reported to even the school counselors un­til repeated incident proves a serious problem. 
The office in Regina is also staffed from 7 p.m. to 12 mid­night Sunday throughThursday as a question and resource cen­ter. 
Other projects ofthe Council include three credit academic courses, an AI-Anon group and special programs including a 
fcontinued on page 4/ 

Jeeps, Cars, Truck~ 
Available through government agencies. Many sell for under $200. 
Call (602) 941-8014, Ext. 3648 
for your directory on how to purchase. 


GOOD TIME MUSIC -GOOD TIME ROCK AND ROLL "STRAIGHT FLUSH" Now Available for Bookings Hall Parties Special Engagements Call Jeff Barcus at 259-8088  
MEN-WOMEN A GREAT WAY TO CONTINUE LEARNING If you've completed some college courses, the Army can help keep you moving In the direction you want to go. One year of college could start you one pay grade higher. Two years ofcollege could earn you a second stripe. Once on activ:e duty, you can pursue your education during off-duty hours. The Army will pay up to 75% tuition for approved courses taken. You might also participate In other Army programs that could net you between $7400 and $14,100 In educational assistance. The Army can make good use of your education and, If you qualify, provide you with guaranteed training in the field or your choice. • · · "'"­There are current openings In these specialties ­and many others: language Specialists Administration Specialists Construction Engineering Electronics Your education and ability can move you ahead in the Army. See if you qualify. CALL ARMY SGT. Young 234-4780  

~! 


--·---------·-__-_·_-_-_·-_··-_-_-_-_·-_-_-_-_-_-_._-_-_-_-_.-------'-------_-_.__________________________...... 

The Observer Tuesday, December 2, 1980 -page 4 
[continuedfrom page 1] 

Saudi Arabia attempted medi­ation and U.N. Secretary­Gr .teral Kurt Waldheim urged restraint in the confrontation that has arisen between Jordan and Syria following outbreak of the Iran-Iraq war on Sept. 22. 
Jordan, whose King Hussein is considered among the most trusted Arab allies of the United States, said it ~ould turnJordan into a "flaming inferno to burn every aggressor." Jordan strengthened its forces on the border to counter the Syrian deployment. 
At Ramtha, theJordanian bor­der crossing post, a young Jordanian colonel told AP re­porter Alex Efty yesterday, "the 
.....,_.......,. situation is very dangerous and anything might happen anySome people wtll stop at nothing to lure the attention of an Observer minute." He said thousands of phatographer (photo by joel Annabelle). troops massed both
were on sides of the border and "fighting 
_____________,____., may break out by accident in a
I ~ Price '"""''o" hke th~, ..
1
I for Ladies 1 Chaplm1 All Night! Ifilm fest 1 I continues 
1 Thursday Night 1 The Charlie Chaplin film fest­ival will continue tonight and tomorrow night with a showing ofCity Lights at 7 p.m. in the new
1I Ladies Night 1I Snite Gallery's Annenburg Aud­itorium. The festival will conclude Sunday and Monday at 7 p.m.
I I 
with showings ofMonsieur Verdota. 
Donation for all showings, $1.


·--~-------------~ 

/ 

• • . Jordan-Syria 
Saudi Prince Abdullah Bin discuss the Syrian-Jordan situ­Abdul-Aziz, deputy prime min­ation in addition to participation ister and head of the national ina ceremony ratifying the treaty guard, ended talks with Presi­signed Oct. 8 in Moscow by dent Hafez Assad of Syria and Assad and Soviet President flew home. Jordan had expected Leonid I. Brezhnev. him to visit Amman. 
Shortly after Abdullah's' de­At 'the United Nations, parture from Damascus, Vasily Waldheim called in Jordanian 
V. Kuznetsov, Soviet first vice and Syrian diplomats to urge re­president, arrived to a red carpet straint on both sides. "The welcome in the Syrian capital to secretary-general is following the exchange ratification documents tense situation between Jordan of a new Soviet-Syrian treaty of and Syria with t.he utmost con­friendship and cooperation. cern," U.N. spokesman Rudolf 
Kuznetsov was expected to Stajduhar said. 
• • . Drinking 
(continued from page 3} where a discipline role is as­
sumed to be attached." speakers series to be offered Tamborini also said "it's too next semester. early to tell if it is making a 
Finally, the Council has spon­difference, it's the first year for sored "The Empty Keg". Sr. a lot ofthese things. I know that Jackowski noted that "there in this past year people have was 'standing room only' at the been more willing to come to first Empty Keg in the club­me about a friend or roomate house but·attendance dropped who has a drinking problem. when it was moved to the Snack They see it is an issue and think Bar. The reason for the move it would be OK to present it." was Student Government's at­Sr. Jackowski and both Peer tempt to make the Snack Bar Assistants agreed that at this into a student center. The point the response is low, but Empty Keg will probably be only because not many students moved back to the clubhouse are aware of the programs. Sr. next semester. Jackowski says her major ob­
In regard to the effect and jectives this year include need for the programs, Miss "marketing the program. The Tamborini believes it is a programs are sound enough "valuable service though there this year that we can push them, hasn't been a real sales pitch though we still want to maintain yet. It is going to take a while, a low profile. Sr. Jackowski also that's to be expected. The rea­emphasized the other main ob­son that the Peer Assistance is jective of"getting people to be such a great idea", says aware of how they drink and Tamborini, "is that they are a how their friends drink. To get separate volunteer group not people talking and thinking associated with Residency about their drinking behavior." 
, , , Crime 
[continuedfrom page 1} 

encountered "a pair oftownies." Seeing that the house was occupied, 
the pair fled. 

"I guess they took off because they didn't know how many people were home," the student said. He added that his housemate was not armed. . 
The housemate reported the break-in to the police. The officer assigned to the case, however, was unavailable for comment last night. Whether or not the two incidents are linked remains unclear. 
Your own Christmas Gift I olunteer for Observer layout. __ call John at 8661 
Help others while you help YOURSELF... to a wide selection of hand crafted articles ·from the THIRD WORLD 

ST. FRANCIS SHOPPE 
Non Profit Organization Behind Fatima-Opposite St. Mary's 10-6 Mon. thru Sat. Phone 233-7467 
Student Legal Services 
·BASEMENT NOTRE DAME 
*-• LAWSCHOOL------~ 

LEGAL AID AND DEFENDER ASSOCIATION RoomB-12 ~83-7795 9-4:30 ~--o---other timesby appointment 
--·----· -·----­

The Observer 
Urban sprawl ? 


Wyoming experiences growth 

By Dennis E. Curran Associated Press Writer 
CHEYENNE, Wyo. -After years of trying to lure people to its wide open spaces, Wyoming now struggles with a new prob­lem -urban sprawl. 
An influx of energy workers has made Wyoming the nation's third fastest growing state, packed its cities and towns and spilled onto its plains, deserts and mountainsides. 
The little house on the prairie has neighbors. 
As energy development brings prosperity and "the good life" to many ofWyoming's470,000 in­habitants, the state's new sub­divisions are offering amenities 
not  found  in  the  cities­ 
magnificent  views,  spacious  
acres, simple serenity.  

But Wyoming's new suburbia is also bringing new problems to a state that still ranks 49th in population, a team of reporters from The Associated Press and AP member newspapers and radio stations has found. 
New subdivisions are spring­ing up willy-nilly on urban fringes, sometimes without benefit of planning and often without zoning. 
Some merely are eyesores, but others have spawned road and water problems, sewerage sys­tem failures, pollution and rising municipal costs. Sprawl has set neighbor against neighbor in zoning battles and taken some of Wyoming's best farmland out of production. 
Urban sprawl is most striking in the energy boomtowns, but the reporters also found it in resort communities and quiet ranching towns. 
"I think it's happening any place where you have rapid growth and where there hasn't been a strong policy of plat~..ning anehrying to guide that growth," said Gillette citv administrator Flip McConnaughey. 
Gillette, which sits on top of one ofAmerica's richest reserves of coal, almost doubled in popu­lation during the last decade but, said McConnaughey, "I think we have a much better handle now on the planning aspects." 
Other communities are still looking for that handle. 
-Evanston expects to double its population of 6,500 in the next few years because ofoil and natural gas development in the Overthrust Belt of southwestern Wyoming and northeastern Utah. 
Apartment buildings and trailer parks already compete wi•h sheep for pastureland, but Evanston officials say they are less a problem than having no housing at all. "We've got to have them-that's the only the shortage of huusing," said Evanston Mayor Dennis Ottley. 
-Modern "homesteaders" live in tents and and camper-trailers in the desert of southwestern Wyoming. Police in Green River and Evanston complain people sleep in their cars and move from street to street each day. Officials in Kemmerer found construc­tion workers paying to get into the municipal pool just to use the showers. 

-In Rawlins, an old chicken coop was fixed up-and rented for $350 a month. Horror tales abound about families living in motels pulting their children to bed in bathtubs. 
-In Cheyenne, the develop­ment of"ranchettes," homes on lots big enough to allow resi­dents to keep horses and other animals, grew so in tense that well water was being polluted by seepage from neighboring septic tanks. 
-Park County, one ofthe few counties with local zoning dis­tricts outside cities, officially "encourages" farmers and ran­chers to keep agricultural land in production. Nevertheless, some 1 ,400 empty subdivision lots sprawl between Cody and Powell on what is considered some of Wyoming's best crop land. 
-In scenic Teton County, where only three percent of the land is privately owned, there is constant conflict between the need to provide housing for newcomers and to preserve the scenic values that attracted them in the first place. 

According to Collin Fallat, who directed the now defunct Wyoming. Land Use Commis­sion, control of urban sprawl is possible, but it will take fore­sight, initiative and greater cooperation among loc~l gov­ernments. 
Wyoming cities may now zone areas one mile outside their boundaries. More counties are looking at zoning as a means of protecting fringe areas, too, al­though resistance to zoning con­tinues and the state's role is reduced to providing technical assistance. 
"There's an attitude prevalent in Wyoming that utilization of personal property is a matter of the landowner providing for himself, within the bounds of public safety and welfare," Fallat said. 
State Agricultural Commis­sioner Larry Bourret said one answer may be to compensate farmers and ranchers for not selling their land to subdividers. "What I see concerns me," he said. 
Local and state officials view the future with a mixture of cautious optimism and appre­hension, knowing that Wyoming's growth and urban­ization is likely to continue as the nation turns increasingly to do­mestic sources of energy. 
Still, said former Gillette city plannerJoe Racine, some things won't change. 
"Compared to the states back East," he said, "Wyoming will always be Wyoming." 
Tuesday, December 2, 1980 -page .5 
calories counters. This person fights hack.
Go away! 

(photo by jackie Wasnr) 

CAMPUS PRESS 
Needs a Secretary/Layout Artist to Work 1-5 Tues./Thurs. starting after Christmas Break 
• 
Job Includes order processing, poster set-up, customer relations 

• 
No experience necessary/Paid position 

• 
Must be willing to stay on for the fall semester of 1982 

• 
Applications being accepted until Dec. 5 Basement, LaFortune 1-5 


STANL£Y KUBRICK'S 
2ee1111a 
A.IPACI 
~fiR outLEA. GARY LOCKWOOD. STANlY¥ KUBRICK-ARTHuR c CLARKE "":':;'1\\\~• STANLEY KUBRICK •IN SUPER PANAVISION' • M[T~OlOA 
AN MGM FILM • ..... .,.,_CINEMAINTERNATIONAL CORP 
Sponsored by the Student council of the College of Science Dec. 2, 1980 -7 and 9:30 p.m. Library Auditorium Admission $1 
FINANCIAL AID 
Full scholarships available to medical and osteopathic students. 
*TUITION 
*SUPPLIES 
*ACADEMIC FEES 
*$485 PER MONTH 

*TEST BOOKS For information call Capt. Sam Redding or MSgt. Bob Reese Air Force Health Professional Procurement Office 
317-269-6164 
CALL COLLECT. 
Air Force -A Great Way of life.... 




I ina hurry? I 
I I
1100-llx17 posters
1I only$10.00 I I 
I ••. I I












i• ~. ~
203N.Malnl
I , South Bend 1I 
I 289-6977 I.I I thewizofthe 11 
FBI adds new confusion to 

Kennedy assassination 
WASHINGTON (ap) -the committee's experts "did not FBI on Monday disputed the scientifically prove that a gun­work of acoustical experts who shot was fired by a second led the House Assassinations gunman from the grassy knoll Committee to conclude that area of Dealey Plaza during the there was a high probability that assassination of President two gunmen fired at President Kennedy on Nov. 22, 1963. 
John F. Kennedy in Dallas in "Therefore, the House Select 1963. Committee on Assassinations The FBI forwarded to the finding that 'scientific acoustical Justice Department a review evidence establishes a high performed by its Technical probability that two gunmen Services Division. fired at President John F. The now defunct assassina­Kennedy is invalid," the report 
tions committee had recom­said. 
mended in its final report in 1979 The House committee report that theJustice Departmenthave in 1979 was the first official study FBI lab experts review the of the assassination to dispute acoustics research on which its the conclusion of the Warren conclusions had been based. Commission that Lee Harvey The FBI report concluded that Oswald acted alone in the killing 
analysis of the evidence by the of Kennedy.
practical method of alleviating


r-----------lllq ..----------------,
• 
need printing I 1 Tuesday 1 

• 
printing biz 1 • ..1



L----------• ·--------------­
1 
8:00. til .j) II 

I BUDWEISER I I
I 


2/$1.00 I 
I 


Editorials 
Tuesday, December 2, 1980 -page 6 
Student Government; in hiding ? 
There is an invisible force ·Board of Governance the core present on Saint Mary's campus ; ofstUdent governmen;is chaired that seems to have baffled people I by the Student Body President, for a number of years. Upon VicePresident for Academic reflection, this invisible force or Affairs and the Vice-President rather the G~eat Secret is in need for Student Affairs. The Board is of exp~natwn.. T?e best kept composed of Hall and Class secret h1dden Wlthm the bowels Presidents and Commissioners· of.metropo,litan South Bend is 1 Spiritual, SAPB, Athletic: 
Samt Marys Student Govern­ment. 
Yes, St. Mary's Student Government exists. She is alive and functioning efficiently. Con­trary to popular belief, student government is actiing and acting responsibly. She appears to be the antithesis of a Marxian di.dectic with the invisible ele­ment. Because this part of the antithesis wins out, the under­lying reasons must be explored. 
SMC Student Government is composed of a number of com­munication networks that represent the student in every realm of her existence. The 
Co-EX, Social Justice, Judicial, Election, Off-Campus and De­velopment This Board is in­volved in student life far beyond the most visible student gov­ernment projects such as, movies, concerts, lecturers, and intramurals. The students, through the Board members, are represented on issues of aca­demic honesty, social justice and development Student govern­ment not only represents its ·constituents on the administra­tive level, but also on every committee of the Board of Regents. From these different modes of communication and representation, information is 
'lrectly relayed to the students work on activities that render a through the hall and class more balanced student life and councils. more sophisticated student ser-
In every sense of the word, vices. It was through the not SMC Student Government is readily visible work of many progressive. She is allowed much Istudent government leaders that 
o_f her freedom and representa­non because of the sense of responsibility and clear-thinking that many ofher leaders exhibit SMC Student Government does not have to fight narrow-mind­edness and in loco parentis men­tality as many student govern­ments across the country must The ,student leaders a_t Saint Mary s are treated w1th the respect that is deserving of in­telligent, decision-making women. 
Consequently, because SMC student leaders do not have to fight the battles that lead to headlines the Great Secret syn­drome is perpetrated. However, this leads to a special freedom that allows campus leaders to services such as, Saturday dinner check cashing, weeknight Masses, co-ex tickets, and The Empty Keg have materialized. 

There are an abundance of activities that student govern­ment works on that are not purely social Intellectually, College to Career Days, Political Week, WOW, The Liberator, and Luncheon Speakers Series are programs that heighten student awareness and knowledge about crucial issues. In the spiritual and social justice context, student government works with Campus Ministry to offer retreats and Bible Studies, and attempt to sensitize the students to the needs of the community and world by running a school charity and Cambodia Relief Fund. 
Finally, in the social realm there is Founder's Day, Oktoberfest, Olympic Week, Christmas Bazaar and more. 
It is apparent that student governmenthas been involved in many of the activities and ser­vices that have materialized on campus. This is not to say that student government workers are solitary crusaders. Many ofthese activities could not have been brought about without the help of administration, faculty and staff. Finally, the point of this editorial is not to praise the ef­forts of student government but to make the students aware that many campus activities and ser­vices that are not traditionally highlighted are the results of the work oftheir elected representa­tives. The Great Secret will con­tinue to work invisibly. Kathy Sweeney is St. Mary's Student Body President. 

New era ofjustice ? Thurmon reverses course WASHINGTON-Unlike an extremist notoriety for his ability to sleep ates already entrenched in the a chaplain, but Denton qualifies Ronald Reagan, Sen. Strom at his Senate desk. In his waking Senate, the newcomers of the to be its first Guidance Coun­Thurmond needs no transition That's a vintage Good Old moments, Hayakawa said the hard-core right may be forced to selor. Nickles, the Oklahoman, period. Less than two days after Strom story, and worth a passing poor shouldn'tworry if gas prices outdo themselves. For sure, they is an again-the-government the Republicans won control of chuckle. But with sixteen new rise to two or three dollars a are trying. boomer who opposes . EPA, the Senate, the one-time racist Republicans coming to the gallon, as he urged: "The poor Alfonse D'Amato, a low-level OSHA, HUD, and the depart­from South Carolina, who now Senate, and a dangerous number don't need gas because they're and inexperienced machine poli­ments of Energy and Education. fashions himself as a friend ofthe of them being rabid, righteous not working." tician from Long Island, is eager And that's just to start. blacks, announced that as the and unblinking New Rightists, to revive the Nixon days. He has Hawkins of Florida echoes next chairman of the judiciary it's a low moment when Strom Then there is Sen. Gordon an enemies list. "We know who Humphrey of New Hampshire. committee, he will be pushing Thurmond is to be appreciated Humphrey, the former airline they are and we are going to get The latt,er said last year that it is for the death penalty. for being a moderating influ­pilot from New Hampshire. Like them," D'Amato said of oppo­good to elect people to th As Strom the Staunch fear­ence. Hayakawa, he also has a subtle nents who worked for the Senate "who are more in touch lessly lifts the nation's vision to a turn ofmind, as when he told an defeated Elizabeth Holtzman. with reality than career politi­new era ofgassings, hangings and Before wondering how·bleak it interviewer last year that one of Displaying the kind o( winner's cians." Here is Hawkins last and electrocutions, it needs to be may become once the Senate his foreign policy priorities was grace that puts him in line to week: "It's a tremendous ad­remem~ered that he is a actually seats political novices of to reestablish "military superior­receive the Robert Bauman vantage to be a woman in moderate conservative. He is the the hard right like Jeremiah ity over those Russian bastards." Award for Kindness, D'Amato government. Most of us still stay Old Right. He has kicked around Dentonn of Alabama, Don Impressed by Humphrey's grasp slashed at Holtzman for her in touch with reality-I go buy Washington for so long that the Nickles of Oklahoma, Alfonse of international affairs, the re­"gutter tactics" and "lies." groceries at midnight." Senate's clubbiness has mel­D'Amato ofNew York andPaula porter asked what books or Denton ofAlabama, a booster With Humphrey's mind per­lowed him. The other day, when Hawkins of Flo.rida, it's worth individuals had molded his view of the Moral Majority with an manently locked on automatic one of the Senate's New Right looking at some of their bed­of the world. The new senator opponent who favored the pilot and Mrs. Hawkins, the came in with a nutty proposal for fellows already in the Senate. replied: "I can't think of any­"separation ofchurch and God," insomniac, lecturing checkout the judiciary committee, The most prominent of the thing that stands out, to tell you took to the campaign trail to clerks about her passions for the Thurmond was heard to say of ultra rights is Sen. S.I. Hayakawa, the truth." denounce premarital sex and B-1 bomber and the MX missile, the man: Be careful of him, he's the Californian who gained quick With bombasters and illiter­adultery. The Senate already has perhaps the country is about to be treated to a new Humphrey­Hawkins bill: the National GetinGarry Trudeau Touch With Reality Act. Ifthe Senate were a circus and THe OTH&RS AI?& F!?OM 7Hf3 IT'S 8C&N (}1/17!3 A Y!AR FOR 01/R the national anthem were "SendALMOST. 7HeCLIQUe Of SIX, A8ANO OF NeiAI L£6AL SrsffM. Al./lEAPY 711/S IWR VB?MIN in the Clowns," some of thisR£3AcrtONARY 7RAI7lJR5/AifKJ Y~,/4/eV/3 P/lOSt(J/!W H MOB 5KJPP&/) might rate a laugh. But thisPLOTTCP 7fJ AS5.45SINATE me CF &I6HT, THE Ci1AJ-f)()l'-k3 SIX, 7H£3 /3AI/,. crowd of political novices andCHAIRMAN IN NeST (F 7H!?£e, ANP I I automatons is the new Right in 1971. ~""' THe RJfJR 'S?MIN. full earnestness. They flaunt their negativism and they boast of their inexperience. No group has ever come to the Senate less prepared for national politics. The potential for the destructive use of the Senate's power is awesome. Maxwell Glen and Cody  

Shearer are sy11dicated columnists who appear regularly in The Observer. 


Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collese. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. _Com~entaries, opinions, and letters are th.e views of their authors. Column s~;>ace ts avallable to all members of the commumty, and the free expression of varymg opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
L--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
SMC News Editor .......... Mary Leavitt 
Editor-in-Chief............ Paul Mullaney Sports Editor ............. Beth Huffman
Managing Editor .............. Mark Rust 
Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe 
Editorials Editor........... Mike Onufrak 
Photo Editor... .............. John Macor 
Senior Copy Editor ... Mary Fran Callahan 
Business Manager . .......... Greg HedgesExecutive News Editor ..... TomJackman 
Controller .................... .Jim Rudd News Editor ............... Pam Degnan Advertising Manager ........... Mark Ellis News Editor................ Lynne Daley Circulation Manager ........ Beth Hackett SMC Executive Editor...... Margie Brassil Production Manager ....... .John McGrath 


~-, 

~ 


Features 
Tuesday~ December 2, 1980 -page 7 
ITAIJCS MINE 



Excuses, Excuses 
Elizabeth Christman 
Excuses, excuses! which will not get you off the hook. --Alarm didn't go off: Worthless. ··Broken leg, ankle, arm, wrist: The end of the semester is here, --Vacuum cleaner ingested it: Too --Wedding of brother or sister: Ineffective excuses as long as there 
with all of its psychological traumas, bizarre. Overused. Ineffective. are crutches, splints, and electric 
nausea attacks, hives, midnight -·Xerox machine ingested it: ..Wedding of brother and sister: carts. screams, and daybreak depressions. Stylish. Might work. Unusual enough to be effective, --Mumps: An effective excuse if Students are drowning in papers that ··Blown away by local tornado or especially in courses on Greek myth the professor has never had the were due a month ago and exams not burned up in uncontrolled brush fire: or Freudian psychology. disease himself. 
yet crammed for. Something's got to Effective if you visited correct --Wedding of parents: Extremely --Drug overdose: Too manygive! Excuses and alibis are ~eographical area during Thanksgiv­effective.;. troublesome frin~e effects, such as desperately needed. mg Break. --Death of close family member: disciplinary heanngs and calls to But many excuses and alibis are so --Stolen by jealous fellow student: Ineffective unless details are unu­parents.outworn that they no longer do the Intriguing. Good for a week's sually grisly. (Death of close family ··Leprosy: Very effective. trick. They are like tires whose extension. member by murder or suicide is if you have missed class, and have treads have rubbr:d smooth. ''I lost ·-Stolen by agent for term paper almost foolproof. ) no effective excuse, it is best to make my homework," for example, is company to put 111 its catalogue: The --Death of parent: Effective is none. Simply go to the professor's
utterly threadbare, from having been sheer bravado of this will get you an used no more than twice with any office, or better still to her home,used through ~rade school and high extension. professor. open your notebook with an ingra·school. It won t gain you an ounce of •. Went on retreat: Occasionally tiating smile, and ask her to tell you mercy from any Notre Dame profes­Explanation ofsubstance spilled on effective with emeritus professor who everything you missed. This shows sor. term paper, rendering tl illegible. knows what a retreat is. her how eager you are to learn and 
To assist students in these tor­-·Coffee: Weak explanation. --Audience with the Pope: how concerned to garner every pearl mented times, I've made a survey of Overused. You'll have to retype. Effective if supported by airline ticket that falls from her lips. Be sure to Notre Dame professors to see what --Booze: Very weak explanation. stub, and accompanied by gift of wear your bullet-proof vest. excuses they will and will not accept. --Suntan oil: Almost worse than no specially blessed rosary for profes­By studying these results, students explanation. sor. may be able to arrange the right kind --Blood: Effective explanation if 
The Observer features department
of catastrophes and mishaps to get accompanied by gruesome details. Illnesses or accidents which cause 
welcomes our rear/ers to submit story ideas
them through the coming weeks. --Sweat and/or tears: Sometimes you to miss classes. 
• for possible incorporation into our pages. If
effective with gullible professors. --Mononucleosis: A worthless 
you have aconceptyou think we tuouldlike,
Excuses for failing to produce term --Radioactive waste: Good for an excuse, even if true. 
don't hesitateto callour officesat283-8661 
paper. instant A. --Diarrhea or vomiting: certified to 
and ask for Molly or Ryan. We will be
··Dog chewed it up, or small get you excused from the present 
happy to provrde whatwer assistance
brother tore it up: Weak excuses Excuses for not being at exam. class. 
necessary. 



Justice Teach-In: an experi~nce 
Editor's note; The Committee on that any of these objections is c. What justification can I offer for f. Within my subject, how is it Education {or Justice has sent the applicable, we urge you to consider the devotion of public or philan­determined what questions are worth following fetter to faculty members, honestly and prayerfully the fol­thropic resources to teaching and investigating? Am I satisfied that the and has as~ed for it to be public for lowing: research in my subject? Do I questions I encourage my students to students. encourage my students to think about deal with are the ones most important 
a. What light does my subject shea this question? to humankind? on the pressing problems of human­If you are seeking assist:tnce or
During the week of February 9·13,_.. 
king-·etther the permanent ones or d. Why are people who master my direction concerning your mvolve­1981, the University Committee on the ones facing us here and now? Am subject better patd than day laborers ment in the JUSTICE TEACH-IN,education for Justice will sponsor the I teaching my students to see and use or grocery clerks? Do I encourage my there are individuals within eachfourth annuaf JUSTICE TEACH-IN. 
that light? studen~s to ask? college who have agreed to act asA seminar and other activities are resource or contact people. Pleasescheduled during the week but the b. What good or evil can a person do e. What responsibility do people who flU out the attached sheet and we willmost important part of the JUSTICE with mastery of my subject that he or pursue learning for its own sake have put you in contact with one of these TEACH-IN will be the devotion of 
she could not have done without it? for the uses to which other people put mdividuals.
class h'me to the examination of 
Am I preparing my students to make that learning? Do I explore this In closing, let us assure you that
questions of justice raised by 
resronsible choices about how they question or do I choose an Ivory tower we are not trying to preach ordifferent course offerings. Please wil pontificate. We are deeply con­keep the JUSTICE TEACH-IN in cerned about the importance ofmind when you are planning your giving the question of justice acourses for next semester. 
promment place in the Notre DameWe are urging the entire faculty to learning experience and encourageparticipate actively in the JUSTICE you to get involved in ~h~ Jl.JSTICE
TEACH-IN. Seminars and speeches TEACH-IN. Your pantctpatu;m. ~anon justice will have little or no lasting be centered around the acuvltlesimpact unless the content of these scheduled for the week of February 9 materials that the students are (which will be detailed in a January, studying, discussing and analyzing in 1981 letter) or some other approp·their classrooms. 
riate response. 

The objections most freq_uently raised a~ainst participation 10 the 
Sincerely yours, 

teach-in mclude: 
} ush'ce Educah'on Subcommittee of
(1) justice has nothing to do with 
University Educahon for j ush'ce
the subject matter of a particular 
Committee 

course 
Therese Anne Brown
(2) justice is fully integrated into 
Bob Clemens
the subject matter of a course so thee 
jack Gordon
would be no sense in devoting a 
Paul Knapp 
special block of class time to it. 
Elena Ma!its 
Many faculty who raised these Ken MtJani 
objections have found upon further Julian Pleasants 
reflection that participating in the Bob Rodes JUSTICE TEACH-IN can be reward­Tom Theis ing. Before making up your mind Helen Volkomener 

... 
The Obserller= 

~«:)cJl~~======================·T=u=es=d=a=y,=D=e=c=em==b=er=2=,=1=9=80=-===p=a=ge=8= 


Campus 
•1:30 
p.m. -ladies of notre'dame, christmas tea, stapleton lounge, smc. 

• 
7 p.m. -floc general meeting, first floor Iafortune, everyone welcome. 


• 7, 9:30 p.m. -film, "2001, a space odyssey," mem. lib. aud, sponsor: . college of science. 
• 
7 p.m. -film, "city lights," charlie chaplin, the snite aud, sponsor: english dept., donation. 

• 
8 p.m. -ambrosiana lecture series,· "how the humanists lectured on the classics (and how their students took notes)," dr. arthur field, nd, 715 mem. lib., sponsor: medieval inst. 

• 
8 p.m. -basketball, nd vs montana state, ace. 


1981 Senior Trip 
The 1981 senior class trip will be held in the Bahamas. Because there was a significant difference in price between the Bahamas and San Francisco, the com­mittee felt it would be feasible for more students to finance the trip to the Bahamas. The ten­

Molarity 
WHAT DO I CARE IF 
"(OU WEAR '(OURSELVES 



I'LL SIT HERE 81( THE ' FIRE, AND PORK OUT ON MAR51-1MALLOW5! 
tative  price  is  approximately  
$450.  
Activities  are  still  in  the  

planning stages but some ideas are: group boating trips, cook­outs, beach happy hours, and an excursion to a desert island This year's committee members are: Colleen Rooney and Nancy Renz from Saint Mary's College and Nick Christy and Jim Johnston from Notre Dame. 
A $25 deposit will be collected next Tuesday and Wednesday. Deposits will be taken in LeMans Hall from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and8­9 p.m., and at the Student Activities Office in LaFortune from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
Christmas bazaar 
Over 50 local merchants and student groups will participate in the Saint Mary's College Christ­rnas Bazaar today thru Friday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. inLeMans lobby, according to Vicki Pagnucci and Lisa Schute. 
The bazaar, sponsored by the Student Actiyities Programming Board, features such items as bread-dough ornaments, stained glass, greeting cards, spectalty food items and ph-::>tos with Santa 


Juniors­
Sign-up for Senior Bahamas Trip: 7 night -$450 package • 
When: Dec.9,Dec. 10 
Where: LaFortune Lobby, 11-2 LeMons Lobby, 11-1, 8-9 
Bring $25 Deposit to Sign-up Additional $75 Deposit Next Semester 
Both Deposits are NON-REFUNDABLE! 
Nick: 6275 Jim: 1783 
The Daily Crossword 
© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
.. 

Any Questions? 
Nancy: 41-4826 Colleen: 41-4563 

ACROSS 28 Jackknife 50 Proof· 17 In readable 1 Rig and swan reader's writing 5 Diplomatic 30 Hesitate direction 21 Hemingway 
agent: abbr. 34 Simpleton 52 Lively song nickname 8 Computer 36 Legal 54 Cuts short 23 Eggshape input profession 58 Memorial 25 Non·elec· 
12 Seasonal 37 Distressed mounds triccom· visitor 38 Cupid 62 Celebes ox puters 13 Dumbgirl 39 Treeless 63 Sibling of 26 Wanderer 15 Baking plain Flopsyand 27 Lorna-
chamber 41 Exist Mopsy 29 A Muse· 16 Dinner 42 Doorway 65 Needle case 31 Causeto course covering 66 Legjoint adhere 18 Sleeveless 44 Threefold: 67 Dowdy 32 Lucky 
garment pref. 68 Carol number 19 Obligated 45 British 69 Resort 33 Elysian 20 Scatter gun 70 Snicker places 
·22 State 46 Standard of follower 35 Karakul flower perfection 37 Building of Utah 47 Sheds DOWN entrance 
24 Spruce 49 Printer's 1 Long 40 Dickens 
25 In addition units garment child 2 Pillar 43 Entreaty 3 Dagger 47 Financial 
thrusts windfalls 


·4 Followed 48 Slopes 

5 Madison 51 Defeat Avenue 53 US missile products 54 Cityin.... 
6 Disposition France 7 UCLA team 55 Biblical 8 Fits preposition 
together 56 Libertine skillfully 57 Stairway 9 State part 10 Hardy 59 Competition 
heroine 60 Goddess of 11 Poker stake victory 12 Sun 61 Foxy 14 Church area 64 Brew 
£TONIGHT AT LEE'S! 
'lt .~ • 
: $2.00 Pitchers : !with Purchase of Dinner! 
c : 
!GOOD BAR-B-QUE : : AND BREWS, AT : 5 LEE'S!! 
-. 




LOS ANGELES--John Paxson's ability to do great things with a basketball was certainly no secret before last Saturday's game at Pauley Pavilion. 
Notre Dame people had seen his work on numerous occasions-including last year's game against UCLA in South Bend when, with five seconds remaining and his team losing, he walked to the foul line and hit four free throws to win yet another nail-biter for old Notre Dame. So calm was Paxson on that particular occasion that one could hardly tell whether he was back home in Ohio shooting around before dinner or actually beating the Bruins on national TV. 
There was more ofcourse. His first college game 
against Valparaiso with 12 points on four-of-five 
from the field. 
Flashes of brilliance... 
Against Davidson with 19 points and seven assists. Flashes of things to come. And all of it came together Saturday when John 
Paxson shed his "super-sub" tag (probably in a phone booth behind Pauley Pavilion) and became a leader. You see, before-o•~turday, there was Branning and there was Hanzlik and there was very little pressure on Paxson. The good things he did were extra pleasures, but mistakes and losses were never his fault. 
How could they have been? 
Blame the old guys for those things. After all, he was young and they had been there and how could he have known and they should have known ... 
And rightfully so. 
He was only a freshman. 
Like the little kid who can go out to the playground and do whatever he wants because he knows his big brothers will protect him. Such was John Paxson when he enjoyed the luxury of not having any pressure put upon him. 
Not any more. 
Saturday night, with Branning in the stands, 
Georgia No. 1 
Fighting Irish retnain No. 2 
By Herschel Nissensm Associated Press Sports Writer 
Georgia, Notre Dame, 1Florida State and Pittsburgh 
held on to the top four spots in 
The Associated Press college foot­
ball poll Monday. 
The Georgia Bulldogs com­
pleted their first perfect regular 
season since 1946 with a 38-20 
victory over Georgi;~. Tech and 
received 52 of 60 first-place 
votes and 1,187 of a possible 
I ,200 points from a nationwide 
panel of sports writers and 
sportscasters. 
Notre Dame and Florida were 
idle over the weekend. Both 
wind up their regular seasons 
Saturday, Notre Dame visiting 
Southern California and Florida 
State hosting Florida. Notre 
Dame received four first-place 
• • • Bruins 
(continued from page 12/ 
the Irish made only 13 of 20. 
Both teams had 31 field goals. 
The Bruins out-shot Notre Dame, hitting ~9 percent oftheir shots while the Irish connected on a respectable 50 percent. The story of the game thus remained the even rebounding totals and UCLA's numerous visits to the free throw line. 
"We want to play this kind of 
competition early because tough 
schedules make you a better 
team," said Phelps. "You have 
got to play good teams on the 
road to prepare for the NCAA 
playoffs." 
The Irish will open their home schedule tonight as they host Montana State with tipoff slated for 8 p.m. at the ACC. 
Georgia coach 
Dooley may resign 
The Observer learned early this before the Sugar ·Bowl game, morning from the Atlanta reports say Erk Russell, Bu'reau offlf!A.l:'Associated Press that Georgia's defensive coach, Vince Dooley, coach of the would be at the helm against the University of Georgia, is con­Irish. sidering accepting the head While Doolty has declin~d coaching job at the University of comment, the Associated Pres.r has Auburn-his alma mater. learned Dooley may issue a 
According to the Atlanta statement later today. Bureau, Dooley has been offered The Atlanta Bureau said either a five-year contract for $1 Dooley has two-years remaining million or an eight-year pact on his Cljrrent Georgia contract. worth $1.8 million. Speculation 
was centered on Dooley after Doug Barfield, Auburn head coach, resigned yesterday. Re­ports indicate Dooley might 

EXHIBITION AND SALE
resign to take the Auburn job before Georgia's Jan. 1 game with Notre Dame in the Sugar 
OF ORIGINAL
Bowl. That game will be billed as the showdown for the nation! championship, should the Irish defeat Southern California this 
GRAPHIC ART 
Saturday. If Dooley does resign 
LaFortune Center
Football 
December 2, 1980
equipment 
Tuesday 1 0 a.m. -5 p.m.
return 
Interhall football equipment 
Arranged by

should be returned today, to­morrow, or Thursday from 7-8 Mason Graphics, Inc. 
p.m. at Gate 9 of the stadium. Individuals not turning in their 
and the Notre Dame Student Union equpiment by Thursday will be charged a late fee. Services Commission 

The Observer Tuesday, December 2, 1980·-page 9 
• • . Faust 
Paxson: lone star vs. UCLA 
Frank 
LaGrotta 

Hanzlik in Seattle and Kelly Tripucka and Tracy Jackson having the worst game that anyone could remember, Paxson was given the ball-in more ways than one. 
"We could have easily fallen apart out there," Digger Phelps pointed out at the airport on Sunday. "Kelly arid Tracy did nothave good games and Orlando got in foul trouble so we relied on John and he got the job done." 
The little kid grew up to become the biggest bully on the block. 
Certainly his statistics merit mentioning: 21 points, five assists, three steals-the picture­perfect boxscore for a point guard. However his most important contribution to God, Country and Notre Dame was the way he handled the pressure. 
The pressure ofplaying in Pauley Pavilion where you best keep one eye on the rafters in case one of those 10 national championship bedsheets falls on your head. The pressure of playing in front of a well-rehearsed student body that never lets up on you from buzzer to buzzer. 
The pressure of playing on a team thatwasn't playing well in a game that was very important. 
"John took control out there," Phelps com­mented. "He did exactly what we know he is capable of doing." 
Of course, the Irish did lose. 
"Hey," Phelps added. "He can't do it alone." 
But it was not his stats or his glittering perform­

ance that Paxson cared about afterward. Accept­ing numerous compliments from well-wishers, his only response was, "I wish we could have won." 
Which is, perhaps, the real indicator ofhis value to this team. 
{continued from page 12/ 
State will come to Notre Dame with Faust, and the coach-to-be confirmed that report. 
"We wanted to keep that an­nouncement until we made the others, but somehow the story got out. Lichtenberg will be our offensive co-ordinator at Notre Dame. We'll announce that of­ficially when we name the rest of the staff next week." 
Despite his hectic schedule in Cincinnati, Faust plans to start recruiting immediately. 
"Lichtenberg and I are going to Tennessee this weekend to see 
the state high school cham­pionships. There is a young man playing in that game that we are very interested in seeing come to Notre Dame." 
Faust put aside any specu­lation on the status of Irish quarterback Tim Koegel. Campus rumor-mills are running wild with the thought that Koegel may return to Notre Dame for a fifth season, after 
NOTRE DAME 
JUNIORS! 
SKI TRIP to BOYNE MTN. Feb. 20, 21,22 
$117 Package includes transportation, lodging, 2 meals per day and lift tickets. 
$25 Deposits will be taken on Wednesday, Dec. 3 at 7 p.m. in Lafortune Ballroom 
FIRST COME, ONLY 78 FIRST SERVE SPACES AVAILABLE 

--------~--------,
: ·Any Drink 1· 11 in the I 
1 House 1
1 for $1 1 I Wednesday Night: I I No. 1 Night I 
I ·I
I 

L----------------~ 


missing virtually all of the present campaign due to injury. Faust, Koegel's high school coach, had no comment on the matter. 
"I have not had time to get involved with any of the players at Notre Dame at this point. I've just been too busy. That is a decision that the young man will have to make on his own. At this time, I'm not the man to talk to about that situation, I don't know enough about it. Fr. Joyce is the person to speak with on matters like that," he says when questioned about the rumors. 
Faust is finishing up the last of his duties as a high school coach, but he is anxious to get on with his new responsibilities. 
"I can't wait to get up to South Bend. I am really anxious to get to work. This job is something that I have always dreamed of, and it can't start soon enough for me." 
votes and 1,116 points while the other four first-place ballots went to Florida State, which totaled 1,092 points. 
The final regular-season poll will be taken following Saturday's two games while the national championship will be decided after the post-season bowl games. 



The Observer Tuesday, Decem~er 2; 1989-. page 10 
Emotional time 

The Devine Tenure 
Skip 
Desjardin 

"FIGHTING IRISH" 
rACIFit:\lXR RENTAL
~ SPECIAL.·
\....../ 

1aoo per day(compact car) 
(free mileage) -Call Collect to Reserve Yours Now!!!
... 

(213) 670-1395 Free Airport Pick-up and Return 
What we gave, we have. 
What we dtd not give, 
We've lost forever. 

Thank you for showing us how to give 
Andfor all we now have. 
November 22, 1980 · 

011r last game together for Our Lady 
Senior Players 1980 

It was early yet on this Saturday evening at the 
northern end ofNotre DameA venue. Hundreds 
of students and assorted nuts were just be­
~inning to revel in the wake of Notre Dame's 
.t!ready memorable victory down in Birmingham 
<l few hours before. 

When the team buses pulled into the Main 
Circle through the Christmas-like sea of white 
1hat engulfed every tree in sight, one of the first 
10 make his appreciation for the homecoming 
telt was Dan Devine. 

The 5 5-vear-old head coach ascended the WNDU-TV van and celebrated the way anygood Irishman would-with a jig, accompanied by the band. Devine was just beginning a personal celebration, of sorts, with his final home ap­pearance at Notre Dame just seven days away. 
To say that Air Force weekend was just another emotional moment which happened to fall somewhere in between Devine's arrival and departure from Notre Dame gives no justice to this milestone in his career. 
Dan Devine's life as a football coach has never been an easy one. The stories that have made the presses, the rumors which have circulated in various other circles have not missed their mark. 
But the memories Devine and his family will take from their life in and about this campus community are by no means nightmares-per­haps a shade scarred-but most assuredly the Kind ofthings trips down Memory Lane are made of. 
In the interview room after the Air Force game, Devine spends what seems like an eternity in his postgame press conference dwelling on some ofthe nostalgia that has co_me his way since his first season at Notre Dame in 1975. In his hands, he clutches and polishes with his jacket the plaque presented to him by this year's graduating seniors. The expression in his eyes speaks more emotion than his words can muster. 
"If there have been any heartaches," Devine says holding a finger to the inscription on his momento from the seniors, "And I say if, this more than makes up for them." 
Moments later, wading through the maze of players, family and others in the lockerroom, Devine shakes more hands. When senior de­fensiv.e end Scott Zettek, a young man known for his candidness, reaches for Devine's ex­tended right hand, the coach points again to the 
Gary
Grassey 


plaque and says, "This means more tt' me than you'll ever know... more than you'll ever know." It is the kind of handshake where the man in the green and gold jacket doesn't want to let go. 
Finally, as the players have moved on to the waiting crowd of well-wishers outside the stadium, Devine settles on the stool in front of his locker, again motioning to the plaque.· 
"Very seldom," he says with a pause, "Do kids do something like this. I've been pretty hard on this team. Just the fact that they would give me something like that has to show you why you were hard on them." 
Ofcourse, Dan D~vine has never been an easy man to play for, the. 1gb. Winning does not come easily. In spite of t .e h art;~.ches, the criticisms, the man has alwa fS • Dme up a winner-he began the rise t;:> r. ltional prominence of Arizona St. football 25 years ago, he brought Missouri ten Top Twenty teams in 13 years, he turned a crumbling Green Bay franchise into an NFL playoff contender, and he stands on the threshold of his second national championship team in four years, right here at Notre Dame. 
"I'm a proud man," says Devine. "I think the hurts have been greatly over exaggerated through the years. I've always considered the source of any hurts. It's not easy to suffer something you think is unjust criticism." 
Again he looks to the plaque. ''I've always been with people that counted," he asserts. 'T m a Christian man and I can forgive the things said about me, but I will never forgive the hurt that's been caused my family. I'm not so Christian when it comes to that. What I know is that I'm leaving in perfect health with a lot of pleasant memories." 
As time and history, close any wounds that remain for Dan Devine, someday the Irish coach, as Fr.Joyce said in halftime remarks at the Air Force game honoring Devine and his wifeJo, will attain "(his) own special, respected niche in Notre Dame's football hall of fame." 
It has been said that Dan Devine's football 
teams don't play with emotion-say the kind of 
emotion people saw withAra Parseghian squads. 
I find it hard to envision men like Scott Zettek, John Scully, and Tom Gibbons, to name a few seniors, playing without emotion, let alone giving something to a coach they have shared so much oftheir lives with, words they didn't mean. 
Bad press, doubting alums and fans aside, Dan 
Devine left.Notre,pame Stadium the way he 
walked in-a winner. He must have done 
something right. 

Pauley Pavilion : The Promised Land 
LOS ANGELES-I have been to the basketball promised la11d, and 
seen the championship banners that hang there. 
After seeing two Notre Dame-UCLA basketball games in theACC, 
I have finally experienced one of those contests at Mecca; Pauley 
Pavilion. 
During my freshman year at Notre Dame, the Irish and Rich 
Branning won their third in a row at Westwood, becoming the first 
team to win more than tWo games there. When the time came for the 
return match at the ACC, I was ready. . 
Well, I was almost ready. I cheered for a "Grand Slam" over the 
Bruins at the rally the night before the game, just like everybody else. 
But unlike everybody else, I had no ticket. Undaunted, I got into the 
ACC without one, through a means that I was sure I would have to 
confess later. 
Unfortunately, the game was a real anti-climax, as freshman Tyren 
Naulls led the Bruins to victory in a relatively boring game.­
During my sophomore year, John Paxson went 4-4 from the free 
throw line with only seconds t<;>,Play, w>J4$;.Irish won 77-74. Up until 
that time, it was the best basketball game I'd ever seen in person, 
despite the Digger Phelps-Larry Brown "scuffle" afterwards. Notre 
Dame travelled to Pauley later in the season and thrashed UCLA, 
making it five out of six games they had won. 
Saturday night I saw another thrashing, but one far less enjoyable, 
and not something to dwell on. But Saturday night I experienced 
something. Notre Dame played UCLA at Pauley Pavilion, and I was 
there. · 
It was unlike any other game I have ever attended. Ifa basketball 
game at Notre Dame is identified by Izod shirts and docksiders, then 
agame at UCLA is Christian Diorand Gucci. Itwas not that everyone 
dressed up, it was just that even the faded jeans present "looked" 
expensive. If the crowd at a Notre Dame game consists ofmembers 
of a collective Board of Directors, then a game at Pauley is like the 
"Merv Griffin Show". 
At the ACC, you can see Tom Dennin and JeffJeffers as well as 
WSND broadcasting the game. They were in Westwood too, but 
they were overshadowed by Tom Hawkins andJohn Wooden with a 
cable company, and Dick Enberg and Bill Walton doing the game for 
the local TV station. 

SeeingJerry West and !<.e~ n~r Loggins, and the other 12,798 at a 
Notre Dame-UCLA game, Ofle would think that it is time for the 
dynasty tostrike back atUCLA, especially after last year's appearance 
in the NCAA Finals. That could well be true ofa team that does not 
have a single senior on its roster, but ifit is, UCLA fans are not ready 
or not mindful of that possibility. 
You see, there were only about 7,000 people at the Bruin home 
opener on Friday night, a game in which UCLA beat VMI 94-61. And 
those who were in attendance spent most of their time chanting 
things that were less than favorable towards Notre Dame, and most 
notably, Digger Phelps. 

I learned this weekend that it is not Pauley Pavilion that is magic, 
and its not UCLA basketball. The real magic is in the rivalry, and the 
tradition that it entails. Notre Dame-UCLA at Pauley Pavilion is not 
better than Notre Dame-UCLA at the ACC. Nor is it any better that 
Notre Dame-DePaul at the ACC or UCLA-DePaul at Pauley 
Pavilion. 

A game between the Fighting-Irish and the Bruilll?,iP the a,r~ that 
Wooden built is unique, and like those other great games, belongs in 
a special corner of basketball heaven. 
-----------------. 
~j)(),-tScL=J=t:==i=~~========~==================T=u=e=sd=a=y,=D=e=c=em==be=r=2=,=19=B=O~=p=a=g=e~ll 
by The Ohurt't'r and The A rsudut,·d Prn.r 
The usr oeo ral~wmbeheldromorrowat 
7 p.m. in Stepan c:errfer. I'Ossible s akers include Coacl. Ron Toman, Coach Gene Smith, Dave uerson,John Sweeney, Pat 
Violence: a part of hockey? 
Kramer and Pete Buchanan. 
Sui!ar Bowl ticket aliocation for Notre 
"A funny thing happened to me the other
Dame fffid Saint Mary's students for the January 1 game 
night," quipped comedian Rodney Dangerfield, "I
between the Irish and Georgia will begin today. Approximately 
went to the fights and a hockey game broke out."
three thousand (3,000) tickets will be allotted to students. 
This of course is one of the many one-liners in 
Students desiring to attend the game should report to the 
T.J.

Dangerfield's repertoire. Unfortunately, the
second floor ticket windows of the ACC on the following days: seniors, today, December 2; junio(s and graduate/law students, violence in professional hockey has reached such a tomorrow; sophomore~ Thursday, December 4; and freshmen, catastrophic level that Rodney's famous one-liner 
Prister 

Friday, December 5. 1 he ticket window will be open from 9 is no longer humorous. 
a.m. to4 p.m. When reporting to thewindowyou will complete In a recent encounter between the Philadelphia an application with your name, identification number and class Flyers and the New York Rangers, rookie Mike 
is plenty of FOod, clean, hard contact which vear. The cost ofthe ticket is $1 7.00 and checks should be made .Allison of the Rangers accidentally scraped doesn't have fighting as a prerequisite, especially payable to the Notre Dame Sugar Bowl. A student may present IPhiladelPhia's Bobby Clarke, who hooked the in football. Why is fighting so prevalent in pro­a maximum of two identification cards ancl applications. The I blade olhis stick around Allison's neck. Moments fessional hockey? After all, there is just as muchtickets will be sold on a seniority basis as stated above or until later, Allison was removed from the ice on a violence -if not more-in professional football, 
the supply is exhausted. Since the tickets allocated to the stretcher. 
vet few brawls occur.

student body are intended for their personal use, students will 
How did Clarke react after the game? "I just 
. Terry Ruskowski, center and captain of thereceive the actual ticket upon presentation ofthe ID card upon 
wanted to flip him because I was teed off. He got 
Chicago Black Hawks, commented 1m the situation. 
arrival in New Orleans. The times and places where tickets can 
me near the eye ... I figured anybody hits you, you 
be picked up will be published In Tht• Observer prior to Christmas "There is tremendous competition among the
should hit him back. Isn't that the way the game's
break. 
supposed to be played?" younger players in Canada. So many individuals No, Bobbv, I don't think it is. 
arc equal in talent that they have to do soml"lhing The St. Louis Blues and the Pittsburgh Penguins to distinguish themselves. Consequently, they
Notre Dame's women'Sbasketball 
were engaged in a brutal battle late in October distinguish themselves by showing their coadws team lost to Butler University, 60-51, in the Athletic and when a fight broke out. The Blues defenseman how tough they arc-or, in other words, tht·v Convocation Center last night. 
managed to land a few more punches than his fight. l'h<: sad thing is the coadtcs on the younge'r The visitors were led by Barb Skinner's game-high 24 points. 
opponent. Naturally, the radio announcer rep­level arc impressed bv this and almost actuallv The losers were paced !Jy·IS-o sophomore Janice Crowe's 17 
encourage fighting." · · points and nine rebounds. 
rimanded both individuals for their behavior, 
right? Ruskowski bdieves that fighting takes away The Irish led 33-32 at halftime, but shot just26 percentin the 
from the finesse ofI he game. H l' sounds as if ht· is .1 last half. The host also committed 36 turnovers in the game. 
"(Bryan) Maxwell is no slouch. He likes to fighr 
firm advocate of dean play. However, how docs
and can handle his dukes quite well," he prodaimcd Notre Dame will take a 0-2 record against Concordia 
proudlv. one explain Ruskowski's 252 penalty 1ninutes last year, the most ever by a centl·r? Obviously thatSaturday at 4 p.m. in the ACC. Admission is free. 
A fc~years ago, pro hockey was a weekly feature 
same drive that forces the younger players of today 
on Sunday afternoon television. However, the 
to fight was instillnl in Ruskowski long ago.
numerous altercations associated with nearly
The Saint Mary's skiteam wm meet in the 
cverv drop of the puck soon rcsulte~ in disap­There is currentlv a bill in Congress promotinglobby of LeMans Hall tonight at 5 p.m. Yearbook pictures will 
poiritingly low ratings. The majority of the p~oplc the intervention of the federal government involving be taken and proof of insurance forms will be collected. Any 
were simply not interested in the constant Inter­such malicious _acts. The bill proposes that the questions, call Nancy at 5124 or stop by 318 LeMans. 
ruption ofthe f1ow of the game with stick-slinging, guilty party be financially penalized if his actions 
are not reasonably related to the competitive
fist-swinging delays. Y ct, not everyone seems to be 
sport's goals. In addition, ~hose accused could b(.:
disenchanted with such a brutal style of play.
Purdue's brilliant senior passing com­
charged with a criminal offense. bination of quarterback Mark Herrmann to tight end Dave 
One hockey fan recently wrote to Tl1e Hockey Yet few fitvor such a proposal, and John A. Young as well as sophomore wide receiver Anthony Carter of 
N£'1l1.f, an international hockey weekly, and claime-d Ziegler Jr., the president of the National Hockey Michigan led the 1980 All-Big Ten Football Team named 
the necessity of violence. "I myself think fighting League, seems to think that resolving tic games is an exciting and necessary part of the game. I say with an overtime /1eriod is more impnrtant.
Monday by The Associated Press. 
it is necessary because it is a way ofletting offsteam Ml·anwhilc mav 1cm reigns supreme on the iccHerrmann, despite his exploits in previous seasons, made the 
that players often have after a hard check, elbow, with the const;tnt cncouraJ.:clllent from theAll-Big Ten team for the first time. In his first two years he was etc." "teachers" of the game. Charles Darwin called itedgt:d by Rick Leach ofMichigan and last year by Art Schlichter It's a pity that some people have to rely on survival of the fittest. Bobby Clarke calls it part ofof Ohio State. 
watching grown men engaging in fisticuffs. There the game.
This time the 6-5 Boilermaker, who holds virtually all Big Ten and NCAA career passing marks, far outdistanced Schlichter. 
1\11 t·l.I!-.Sif·•·tl .HI~ musf ill-' ft"ctt•vr.'t tiy 4 45 p m two d.Jy' P•'·'' 10 rhe ,.,..,,,,, ,,. wh•. tl 1/11• 111 ''• r11n Tht..> OhsenttH ulflt:L~ wdl ,u u•pl t.l.t~SdttHha 
Mttnd.to• 11•••'''41~• f nd.tv 10 00 ·• 111 10 5 00 ~ m All clas~•'•••ds "lLI,t 11 1• 
. 
, .... llolld ··t •. ,., 11 + ,,..,.,•• n ,,, lhlfotltjh rh~ lflrlll
Classifieds 
1974 PONTIAC I.E MANS AUTO DISLOCATED COEDS WANT TO MOVE 

DEAR NICK. Chester the Molester of Sorln. TRANS. POWER STEERING AND BRAKES. ON CAMPUS BUT WE MUST SUBLET THANKS FOR THE ClARIFICATION. IT 
Where hove you bMn7 The library.
[ NOTI~ 
350 V-3. REGUlAR GAS. SNOW TIRES OUR APARTMENT... IF YOU CAN HELP HELPED A LOT. BY THE WAY, I )QU throon You're notllvtng up to ON BACK, NICE COLOR, SLEEK US, CALL 233·2631. 

ND/SMC PHOTOGRAPHERS I need REMEMBERED THAT YOUR MIDDLF. your reputation onrmorel Maybe camera lime. Do you need o Several houses lor rent. Summer ·a1 STYLING, GREAT CRUISING CAR, Allentlon Juniors • Senior Trip Sign· INITIAL IS F. YOU'RE RIGHT, I DON'T you'll hove o chance Friday night II 
and/or "81·"82 school year. Partially SPEC!AL: TODAY ONLY CALL WANT TO KNOW WHAT IT STANDS FOR.
modet7 '7344 ups Dec. 3 a4 at LaFortune 11-2:00. you're lucky. Be nice to me and I 
PAUL 233-5422, BEST OFFER OVER

OVERSEM' JOB-s-._S_um_m_e_r/-yeo-r furnished. good condition. Call Lemons. 11·1. 8·9:00. Bring $25 MARGARET might lind o ride to the Sugar Bowl 2a7·5361 olier 7 p.m. $999.47. lor you.
NON·REFUNDA!ILE DEI'OSIT. Your als
round. Europe, 5. Amer.• Australia. BCBMJL TOP 10 
Alia. Allllelds. $500·$1200 monthly. Wish to sublel1 space In CAMPUS "TIS THE SEASON TO BE RECRUITING... 1. M. Hopkins Sightseeing. Free Into. Write: IJC. VIEW opt. call Llaa P. 277-aa48 st. Mary's CHRISTMAS RECRUITERSIII 2. 5. Ouello HAPPY BIRTHDAY (lATE) JENNIFER 
3. R. Blount
Box 52·1N4. Corona Det Mar. Co. TICKETS MANDATORY Mealing Tuesday, JANEIIIIII Streets of New Orleans 92625. December 2 (TODA V) 4. M. Bouchmon BEWAREIIIIII From your N.D. boy· 
4 bdrm house 4 renl.$100·$200 mo 
to the right party. 233·1329 6:15-6:45 STAP.LETON LOUNGE 5. D. Grleselhuber friends-C.H.N.,K.H.•J.K.
Will do typing. reasonable roles. 
Need 1 roommate lo toke up tease WANTED 2 Indiana Tics. Will pay 6. D. McHugh
(leMons)

Call 2a7-5162. THERE'S NO BUSINESS LIKE SHOW
atCAMPUS VIEW APTS. CallDeniseat 7. T. Fandel
mucho buckoa. 277-8699. 

To Lea.(olios Daniel Boone) BUSINESSIII St. Mary's Women-ore
Typing done $.50 pAge . pick up 277-aao3. a. G. Crlnello
need G.A.s and 1 studentllcketlor I'm going public tool Secrets ore you willing to show St. Mary's to 
and dellvery::..,.-23,....3_-1_3_29--:--:----:­9. J. Mormock
Bungalow. 10 minutes away from Indiana BBoll game. call 1608. better when they're shoredl You're students at your high achool?1 Tennesaee Club organizing meet· campus. Relrlg. stove. carpeted. 
10. P. Homer
the greatesll lnteresled17 Please come to theNeed 3 Indiana GA"a
lng. Dec. 2, 7 p.m.• LaFortune. 2a8-0955 Kelly Dillon's Top Ten
PAY$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Emergency APARTMENT FOR RENT: NO Apartment Call Dennis a719 There will beAdvent mosses lorOFF· 1. P. Griffen CHRISTMAS RECRUITING MEETING loons to Notre Dome students only. lor let during second semester. STUDENTS lor the next 2 
2. K. Larsen
CAMPUS $20·$200. One percent Interest. Due Furnished. 2 bedrooms located on NEED EXTRA NIGHT TO STUDY FOR Sundays In Fisher Hall chapel. Join 3. L Maloof Tuesday. Dec. 2. 1980 Today 6:15· FINALS OR SOME MORE CHRISTMAS
In 30 Cloys. One day wall. Open 4th lloor lor security. Close to both your lrlends In celebrollng this 4. J. Heinz 6:45. Stapleton Lounge (LeMons) 
MONEY? SELL YOUR IU B·BALL TICKETS. Wed. Dec. 10. Lost day office will be CALL 1974. 6. M. Updow 
11:30.12:30. M·F. lostdoytoopplyls campuses. Coll233·2631. joyous seasonl 5. A. Berners Refreshments will be servedll 
COUNTRY HOUSE FOR RENT TEN Ryan: we really moosed you...
THE FRESHMAN RANKING$

open Is Thurs. Dec. 11. 7. M. Houk 
MINUTES TO CAMPUS 277-3604 288-FOR SALE: Student season B-boll lor the week ol12/2 Shirley and Rich
8. M. Pojorotickets. Lorry 1631 Only $.55 page. Coil
TYPING -o 0955 1. M. Erklns Sorry, Shirley and Rich.
9. C. Gonot 
Don. 272·5549. 
TWO FURNISHED HOUSES FOR NEXT SEARCHING FOR PAIR OF TICKETS 2. M. Corteslo 10. M. Biagi The joke you set In this space has UGLY DUCKLING RENT·A·CAR. $7.95 SCHOOL YEAR COUPlE BLOCKS TO FOR THE DEC. 91U GAME. CALL JIM AT 3. J. Mornock o punch line that has already been
Reno-that was o long ••twenty
4. T. Valasek

o day and 7 cents o mlle. Phone CAMPUS 277-3604 288·0955 1974 EITHER EARLY AM OR lATE PM. uaecl once this semester. II has
minutes"" wall. 
255·2323 lor reservations. 5. L. Meger been deleted by the moose patrol
grdd Needed: Two GA"s lor California 6. J. Kimmel In order to ovoid emborroumentto
WELCOME BACK CON. notice I gave you prime status. welcomegrad:low student.shore aabbolicol Polytechnic 8.8. game Sot. Will pay 7. A. Morrow 
home with aludenl.close lo blg bucks. Call Sue -6777. a. B. Sty Moose Controlbock les you don'tdeserve the bell.
!LOST/FOUND] you. 
campus two llreploces carpeted 9. J. Henderson Con beller watch oull I om gelling Q: Why Ia the Yukon Important as overynlce.lnexpenslve232·1523.osk 1 10. J. Zologo yourr room ready. Boy do I toove o
Lost: A pair ol woman's. brown­lor charles. JOCGM/ religious center?
PERSONALS 
roomie picked out. maybeyou con
rimmed gton•• In o light brown A: Because that Ia where the Ten BOSTON BUS FOR XMASI Anyonlt lind o room In fisher, I know some·
case. Probably lost In Nleuwlond on I ~~==.n=o=re=,=,oo=:=:=:=:====~ Commandments were given to 
who mined the slgnup but needs a one who n"ds o roomie, oond he
11/17. lllound. please call 7995. Moosest
WANTED 
rtde con call MIKE 2836 or JIM 1528. II one of your connylng friends. lOST: ONE "'I"" KEYCHAIN. PLEASE There ore o couple spots open. bleu mel hovepatience. Welcome Thora Horeb bull. there... A little
~========:--:--Friends.
I know the animals ore toughing at

CALL 1868. ::-Price $105 round trip. Leaves otter bock anyway. love I. lingers who religious humor. lolkl...
Two roommates wonted lor spring us, bullheydon•tevenknowwholo LOST on campus. 1 checkbook with semester. Campus VIew. $10a mo. joke 1._ A couple lor you and your church
loll exam. HURRY and SAVEll Hvea with 11. In the k.s. room. 
I. D."a. lllound. please coll232·1a58 Call Jane or Lauro at 277·8646. Steve KIM. YOU'VE GOT ME TURNING Carol Burnell historians. Pammy. You should contact Sheila Conboy In 309 Babysitter needed my home lor 20 JAPANESE I REALLY THINK SO THINK Here Is the personal I promtaecl hove fun more often. You've gone
IZimbro.

O'Shaughnessy. SO THINK SO you. II took o while but I finally did sour.
hours o week. Begin Jon. Call 2a7­Mind paper cities? Life during do II. When Ia mtne coming?
FOUND: AI o formal this weekend. 571a wartime. memories can't waH. Alr COURSE DESCRIPTIONS FOR FREE Spot.
nmconwov 

one piece ol women's jewelry. Call Need riders bock from Dallas on heaven animals • electric guHort UNIVERSITY COURSES ARE DUE THIS I wish your llollon restaurant wos 1284 to Identify. Jon. 10 or 11. Call Greg 6764 Drugs FRIDAY IN THE STUDENT UNION To the Moose In the productiOn III!VIng TtlontcagiVIng dinner. bul at OFFICE, ON THE SECOND FLOOR OF room: least thil way my lungs con
Found: AI o lormollost weekend. 1 DO YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING
Ride needed to MllwoukH Frl Dec 5 
LAFORTUNE Mayo ninja driveyou Intoa forest recuperate. Don't piOn on hitch·piece olwomen's jewelry. Coll1284 WHI shore gas and driving. Call NOWII COME TO THE ST. MARY'S ST. 
ol"'"-""· hNdng bock without me there lo
and ldenttly. Undo 277·a785 NICK'S CHRISTMAS BAZAAJI. Today Abroad loll year? Then get ready onewho hopes to beoneolenough help-or I might --you
through Friday In the LeMons Hall lor BONDAGEIII St. Johann ReYiwal

KEYS LOST; Set ollhrH kev1 (two ore again.
lobby trom 10 om to 5 pm. Porty-thiiSot. at10p.m. Thlawlllbeo 1know the above personalis lull of
Unlveralfy kevil on o leather key A Northern leeze 
---real walk on the wild lide-b.y.o.b. Inside jokes. Figure II out It you con.
II found. PlEASE call Suaan 
TEACH A FREE UNIVERSITY COURSE II I'm not o lrH either
FOR sALE~ 
lor trash can punch. Block leather277-ta391 

r.qulred. 



.........-~~--~­
Tuesday, December 2, 1980 -page 12 
In Pauley 

Bruins dump Irish, 94-81 
By Frank LaGrotta that the Irish would run their "UCLA picked up right from Sports Wrtier streak of consecutive wins at the final game last year," said Pauley to five as they jumped out Phelps. "They obviously want to LOS ANGELES-UCLA head to a 24-12lead after nine minutes play in Philadelphia this year. coach Larry Brown prepared his ofthe first half. Then Faster took They have seven good people over with a seven-for-seven, 18-who should get them to the Final
players well. He showed them 

how to shoot and how to point, first-half performance that Four again this season." allowed UCLA to outscore Notre All in all, the Irish had little to 
rebound. He taught them how to 

run and how to pass. He even Dame 13-0 in the next three cheer about-with the exception ofJohn Paxson, who hit nine of
reminded them that it wouldn't minutes. 
"We stopped letting them get 13 shots for 21 points to go with hurt to butter up the three Pac­
10 officials who would be calling good shots," commented Brown. five. assists and three steals on the rhe game. "Our defense allowed our offense night. to get moving." "Paxson is a tremendous play­
But he saved the most import­There was more, of course. er," said Brown, who noted thatant lesson for last. 

"Right before game time I The Bruins continued to rely on it was Paxson's defense that gave these guys a refresher course Foster's outside shooting and the helped limit UCLA guard Michael 
on the home court advantage," unexpected frontline play of Holton to only four points. "He forward Darren Daye and took a does everything very well and it
Btown revealed. "I told them that the crowd was ours and that 

45-40 lead into the lockerroom seems to me that he has tremen­dous poise at this stage of his
Notre Dame had to come in here at halftime. 
"What I liked," said Brown, career. The scary thing is, he can and beat us, not the other way 
around." "was that we didn't panic when only get better." It must have done the trick as we fell so far behind early. You Paxson's 21 points were a team Notre Dame's four-year hold at looked down our bench and no high, followed by Orlando 
one was worried." Woolridge's 17 and KellyPauley Pavilion vanished in a "We weren't scared," said Tripucka's 11. Freshman Tom
cloud of dust-most of which john Paxson scored21 points and contributedfive a.rsists and three steals 
Foster. "We knew ifwe used our Sluby played 16 minutes and
was raised by "Rocket" Rod against the Bruins on Saturday. 
Foster. UCLA's sophomore guard quickness, we would come back." chipped in seven points -not a "ran" his team to a 94-81 victory Interestingly enough, however, bad beginning for someone play­
over the Fighting Irish and made it was the Bruins' play under­ing his first college )>asketball it look easy in the process. neath the basket that allowed game at Pauley Pavilion. "UCLA is a very talented team," them to extend their lead to 65-Forward Mike Sanders had a complimented Coach Digger 55 with 10:39 remaining. UCLA's game-high 24 points for UCLA­Phelps afterward. "They do a lot frontline out-rebounded the I 0 of which resulted from 13 
larger, more physical Irish, 21-trips to the free-throw line. Inof good things on the court. I 
thought we played well in the 14, in the second stanza. Notre fact, UCLA's margin of victory came from the charity stripe as
first ten minutes, but then we got Dame never got closer than nine points after that and even fell they hit 26 of 32 foul shots while By Skip Desjardin "No wonder you have thecareless, which was, in part, a 
'behind by 18 in the game's Sports Writer program you do at Notre
credit to UCLA." (continued on page 9} Dame," he says. "I met all oftheAt the beginning it appeared waning moments. 
Gerry Faust is finishing up assistants, and every one of them some "house-cleaning" at is a super person. I was very Moeller High School before impressed with them all. They coming to Notre Dame next are a terrific group of people week to begin the job of be­with a lot of class." 
coming the head football coach Faust says that he really hasn't at Notre Dame. finished his evaluation of the 
'Tm working with the new present staff, nor made aoj' athletic director, and getting definite plans for a staff of his By Brian Beglane soon before it digs a hole too IRISH ICINGS: Tomorrow ready to name a new head coach own. He plans to meet with Dan Sports Writer deep to climb out of. Last place night's game, originally sched­here at Moeller. At the same Devine's assistants again next Michigan State, tomorrow· uled as the first game of a two­time, I'm getting ready to get week, and announce his plans 
LOST: Success on home ice, night's opponent, is four points night series Dec. 11, has been rolling on the Notre Dame job. I sometime after next W ednes­by the Notre Dame hockey behind and the Irish find them­switched around due to a MSU am very busy." day's football banquet. team. Last seen Feb. 2, 1980. If selves 10 points in back of first exam conflict ... tickets for the Speculation is wide-spread as One of the appointments that 
found, please return to the place Minnesota. Dec. 11 game should be used ... to what, if any changes that Faust Faust will make has been re­Athletic and Convocation Cen­Saturday night, the Irish freshman defenseman Joe will make among the ranks of vealed, however. The wire ter. appeared to be sitting pretty Bowie separated a shoulder assistant coaches. He was at services reported that Coach 
.If the solution was only as easy heading into the final period with Friday and will be out about two Notre Dame over the past week­Tom Lichtenberg of Morehead as a classified ad. a 5-1 lead. weeks ... John Cox will take his end to me@t with the present 
leers drop tUJo to Wolverines 
(continued on page 9}
The slumping Irish gave away a Goals by JeffLogan (0:29), Bill place on the blue line. assistants. two-goal lead Friday and a four­Rothstein (shorthanded at 8:44) goal lead Saturday to the and Kevin Humphreys (power Michigan Wolverines and drop­play at 11:59) had given Notre 46th winner ped their fourth and fifth games Dame a 3-0 lead after the first in a row this year. The Wolves period. claimed a 4-3 victory in the After Michigan's Jeff Tessier 
Roger wins Reisman vote
opener and clawed their way beat Irish goalie Bob McNamara back from a 5-l third period at 2:40 of the second period, the deficit the next night for a 7-6 Irish extended the lead to 5-1 on .... 
overtime win and a sweep of the goals by Adam Parsons at 16:56 NEW YORK (AP)-George • ·;first place, 125 seconds, and 74 Mike Singletary, Baylor 'line­Western Collegiate Hockey andJohn Higgins with just three Rogers, who put the University thirds for 861 points. Walker's backer, and Dave Wilson, Illinois Association series. seconds left in the stanza. of South Carolina on the college totals were 107-120-122 for 683 quarterback. 
Notre Dame, meanwhile, re­No way they can lose, right? football map while becoming the points. Rogers became the eighth mains winless in its last 10 games Wrong. fourth leading rusher in NCAA Rogers carried four of the six consecutive running back to win at the ACC-a streak extending The Wolverines stormed back history, won the 46th Heisman regions into which the country is the Heisman and the 31st in the back to February of last season. early in the third period on goals trophy yesterday as the nation's divided-the Mid-Atlantic, 46 years ofthe award. Green was The Irish are now 5-9-0 overall by Paul Brandrup (1:23) and outstanding player. South, Southwest and Far West. only the third lineman to finish as and are tied for eighth place in Gordie Hampson (2:02). Kelly Rogers, a 6'2", 220-pound Green captured the Northeast, high as second without doubling the WCHA with a 3-7-0 record. McCrimmon pulled Michigan to senior from Duluth, Ga., who while Purdue quarterback Mark as a pass-catching end The others They host Michigan State to­within one, 5-4, on a goal at 5:28 leads the nation's rushers this Herrmann, who finished fourth were Alex Karras oflowa in 195 7 morrow night at 7:30 at the ACC andJeffMars evened the scbre at season with 1, 781 yards in 11 overall with 405 points, won the andJohn Hicks of Ohio State in in a single game. 10:23. regular-season games and 6.0 Midwest. 1973. Michigan raised its record to 9-Mars gave the Wolves their yards per carry, won by a com-Rounding out the top 10 5-0 overall (6-4-0 in league play). first lead, 6-5, of the night at fortable margin over defensive Heisrnan finishers were: Jim Rogers received much public­
"I wish I knew exactly what we 16:26 with his second straight end Hugh Green of Pittsburgh. McMahon, Brigham Young ity this season not only for are doing wrong," said Irish tally. Notre Dame's Dave Poulin Herschel Walker, Georgia's sen-quarterback; Art Schlichter, extending his string of 100-yard coach Lefty Smith. "It is defin­forced the overtime at 17:39 and sational freshman running bas;:k, Ohio State quarterback; Neil games to 21, but also because of 
itely something mental. Either the incredible letdown by the was third, the highest finish ever Lomax, a quarterback from small his background. He left home we are thinking too much and Irish in the period left them posted by a first-year player. college PortlandState University and lived in several Georgia not playing our regular game; or grateful for an overtime. Rogers received 216 first-place and college football's all-time towns during his teen-age years, we are trying too hard; orat times Bjork scored his second goal votes, 179 second-place votes passing leader; Jarvis Redwine, and also made headlines when his it seems we are too tense." of the night on a power play at and 122 third-place ballots for a Nebraska running back; Kenny father was released from jail in 
Whatever the reason, Notre 7:43 of the third period to even total of 1,128 total points ba..,ed Easley, UCLA safety; and a three­October after serving almost Dame had better snap out of it the score, 3-3. on a 3-2-1 scoring system. way tie for 1Oth among Anthony eight years for the fatal shooting Green teceived 179 votes for Carter, Michigan wide receiver; of a girl friend . 

• 

-----------~--------~~--------------------' 



