r-.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Crookeddomer -page 5

' ' ' 
VOLUME XV, N0.7 an independent student 
Strikes end 

Polish workers reach agreement 
GDANSK, Poland • , .Earlier in the day, the 
Holdout strikers~t nine lfovernment sent acommission coalmines in southwest Poland led by Wloozimierz reached a tentative agreement Lajczaka, minister • of coal last night with government mtntng, to Katowice to 
negotiators, virtually ending negotiate with the striking the widespr(!ad labor disputes miners. It was not clear how that had paralyzed Poland, the many had left the pits. official Polish news agency PAP A government spokesman in reported. Warsaw said the miners were 
Shipyards, factories and pressing for specificguarantees transportation·.systems had re-for the industry, presumably turned to life in most Polish including improved safety 
cities a day after the historic standards. A source in Katowice settlementsof the Baltic port also said a key issue was strikes. The government. also conditions in underground freed nearly all political work areas, suggesnng the dissidents. strikes there were primarily:a 
The coal miners reportedly single-industry dispute. were demanding improved In the last three months of safety conditions, and PAP, 1979, three accidents in Upper shortlybefore it announced the Silesia pits claimed 62 lives, tentative agreement,reported including 43 workers killed at a eight miners killed and 18 minein Ciechowice. injuredin an accident at a mine "The strikes were under­near the UpperSilesian city of taken with the purpose of Katowice. That mine was settling just problems of 
among many that had not been coalminers and (at the same struck. time) to supportdemands ofthe 
PAP said loaded wagons in an coastal workers," PAP re­undergroundshaft went out of ported. control, "devastating theplace In Warsaw, dissident leader where the miners were Jacek Kuronsaid he and 30 working." other dissidents were freed!by 

A contrast in signs at 1026 Corby Blvd. (photo by John Macor) 
City attorney prepares anti-Corby 's petition 
Cy.John Higgins 

Th"' South Bend City Attorney's()ffke is preparing a petition. residents opposing the renewal of Corby's Tavern's liquor license. If the drive is successful, it could result in tht revocation of the license. 
Assistant City Attorney James Masters announced duringhearings before the Indiana Alcoholic Beverage Commissionthat his office was in the process of gathering signatures ot registered voters residing in the same precinct 
whet'e Corby's is located who oppose renewal of Corby's liquor license. 
Under Indiana law, if a bar is convicted of a violation of liquor laws and if 66 percent of the registered voters residingin the same precinct in which the bar is located "remonstrate against" the license held b_v the bar, the ABC must revoke the license. 
A Corby's bartender was convicted last spring of distri­buting alcohol to minors; therefore, in the case ofCorby's the law applies. 

"At last count we had over half the signatures we need "Masters said Monday. "I don't think we'll have .. any problems getting the rest." 
According to Masters, if the proper number ofsignaturesare gathered and verified, the Commission has no recourse 
but to revoke the license. However, he also has some doubtsas to whether or not the Commission will act on the petition."We have considered what we would do if the statewere to be faced with that petition and did not respond 
(continued on page 5) 

police yesterday in response to strikers'thr.!;!ats to scuttle the agreement over the issue of political prisoners. Five other 
dissidents were released Sun­day, but it was not known if all dissidents held in Polish jails had been freed. 
Kuron, chairman of the Committee fat ·Social Self Defense, said the Gdansk 
agreement would lead to major changes in Polishsociety with­out threatening theCommunist Party or the socialist system. 
"We think it will hold for a very long time because the government wants tocommun­icate with the community," he saidof the agreement covering about 300,000'strikers in the Gdansk-Gdynia area. 

Despite the continued strikes in the coal district, PAP declared, "Today,normal work was resumed in Poland." 
While these students express their affection for one another, the everpresent mosquitos are also undoubtedly expressing their affection for this couple. (photo by john Macor) 

Still more talk! 

Iran to discuss hostages 
by the Associated Press 
Iran's prime minister will discuss publiclya request by 

U.S. Secretary of State EdmundS. Muskie for the early and safe release ofthe 52 American hostages, the Iranian newsagency Pars said yesterday as Parliament begandiscussing its response to a similar request byU.S. congressmen. 
Pars said a letter from Muskie 
to PrimeMinister Mohammad 

Ali Ragai was delivered bythe 
Swiss charge d'affaires in Tehran 
onSunday and added that the 
prime ministerwould "discuss 
the letter at his next public 
interview." It did not say when that would be. In Washington, State Department spokeswoman 
Sondra McCarty said Muskie sent the messageto Rajai "on the occasion of the new prime minister's appointment... callig 
his attentionto the hostage issue and urging the hostages'early and safe re­lease." 
Other State Department sources said the Muskieletter also congratulated Rajai on his 
appointment and wished him well in selecting hisCabinet. 
The Swiss Embassy in Tehran has handled U.S.dealings with the Iranian revolutionary regimesince President Carter broke diplomaticrelations with Iran in April. Yesterday was thehostages' 303rd day in captivity. 
Iran's Parliament took up a draft response toa letter written in July by about 200 U.S.con­gressmen appealing"fervently" for a quicksolution to the hostage crisis, but sent it backto a committee for rewording, according toTehran radio. The state-run radio gave nodetails 
of the response. Rajai referred to objections to his newlyappointed Cabinet 
.by President AbolhassanBani­Sadr during an interview broadcast byTehran radio. Rajai said when Bani-Sadr 
agreed to his becoming prime minister,"he gave me a free hand in selecting all the ministers except defense and theinterior." 
In Moscow, Soviet television commentatorLev Nikolayev welcomed Ghotbzadeh's 
replacement and called him a "directagent of the United States" and an"inveterate foe of the Soviet Union.'' 
G hotbzadeh often had criticized theSoviet Union, once referring to it as"no less 
, satanic than the U. 

Carroll Hall, Log Chapel; struck by lightning 
by Paul McGinn 

This past weekend, two freak lightning-related events took place: on Saturday night, Carroll Hall was hit by a lightning bolt; and on Sunday night,the Log Chapel was also struck. 
When Carroll Hall was struck late Saturday evening, the dorm temporarily lost power due to a malfunction in the electrical circuitry system caused bythe bolt's charge. Some sparks issued from otre of the light switch boxes andcaused concern over the possibility of fire. Although no fire ensued, precau uons were taken, including the reduction of power so as to meet only thenecessary requirements for hall and bathroom lighting. 
Mr. Edwin Lyon, Director ofMaintenance, commented that the dorm was rewiredonly Ia~ year and that a serious fire threat was averted because of the new electrical equipment. He also added that had the system not been grounded,much more damage would have occurred. By early Sunday, full electrical power was restored. 
About 11:10 p.m. Sunday, a lightning bolt scored a direct hit on the LogChapel. At the time, Mass had just ended; sophomoreJeff Brown and FatherMario Pedi were talking in the sacristy. 
Brown remarked, "It scared the hell out of us! Mario and I then checked to be sure we were all right. I then made sure the air conditioning was db1connected." 
The bolt's charge was centered at the rear of the chapel, directly overthe lake side of the sacristy. The blow ca1·.sed minor holes in t}le roof and !knocked off some cedar shingles. 
·The Director ofMaintenance stated that the replacement of the shinglesand repair of the roof would be "a day's work for a couple of carpenters." 
At the time ofthe chapel incident, sparks were seen comin..g out of the airconditioning system, but it was determined that no tli.ajor damage was done to the unit. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 






News Brie 
by The Observer and The Assoi:iated P;ess 
Contract talks between representatives •lf actors and the Hl.mand TV industry resumed yesterday afternoon, following a 16-hourrecess, as the strike became the longest one in the Screen Actor'sGuild's history. There was no indication of progress. 
As tht. strike entered its 43rd day, no one would say whetherthe negotiators were any closer to a settlement. The strike beganJuly 21. 
In the current strike, actors had asked for 6 percent of theproducers' profits on videodiscs and videocassettes after a$10,000 advance per actor. Producers had countered with anoffer of 3.6 percent on pay-TV dramas, comedies and varietyshows, and 2 percent on talk and game shows after the programs had run for two years on pay TV or sold 100,000 cassettes or discs. 
Amnesty International urged.Israel today to make a public inquiry into complaints by Arab detainees ofbrutality by Israeli interrogators in occupied Arab territories. 
The London-based human rights organization said in a 74­page report it was seriously concerned about the persistent allegations, adding that repeated denials by Israeli authorities were "not convincing." 
The report noted: "While it may be true, as the authorities claim, that some ofthese allegations have been falsely brought to serve as ammunition in a propaganda campaign, it is also true that official rebuttals are not convincing and do not seriously weaken the allegations." 
Labor Day. to most people, is the unofficial end of summer: school starts, the swimming pools close and the wool sweaters come out of mothballs. But astronomers at Indiana University point out that the formal start offall is the autumnal equinox which will occur three weeks after the holiday. 
On Sept. 22, at4:09 p.m., EST, the sun will cross the'equator into the southern hemisphere. The sun will rise and set due east and west, and day and night will be the same length. Even after the equinox, astronomers say, summerlike weather will 
Tuesday, September 2, 1980-page 2 
Inside Tuesday


Bar closings fuse keg 
Students can be a lot like steam and college can be a lot like a pressure cooker. I don't know if that analogy has ever been made before, but I . think it could say a lot about Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students this year in the wake of recent happenings at the lower end of Notre Dame Avenue. 
Thousands of words have been dedicated how demanding N.D. academic life is and bad social life is, and it's not my design to the same complaints that have around here for years. But, I'd like to 
.potentially explosive problem which is related to the closing of The Goose's the general crackdown on other bars Northeast neighborhood. 
Whether you liked it or not, that one-story dump at 1003 N.D. Ave. Goose's served a deceptively institution all the years it was nn.on__ , where the analogy comes into p 
The Goose's Nest and other bars have been one ofthe biggest vu••~"'d<'' and hopes over the years--a pressure cooker. Now that damaged. 
You could say that the demise ofa in any way comp ·mise the s University like N Dame, remember walk in some of 
for weeks. Scientists atI.U.'s Department ofAstronomy say '""-~0-----·i-------f...: 
earth's conservation ofheat is the reason that summer doesn't 
come to a screeching halt the day after fall starts. 
China's military leaders, saying they 
were aware of the country's economic difficulties, agreed 
Monday to accept a $1.9 billion cut in spending for national 
defense, the official Xinhua news agency reported. 
The chief of the general staff, Yang Dezhi, was quoted by Xinhua as saying the commanders and fighters of the Lib­eration Army had the nation's general interest in mind in supporting the cutback in the 1980 budget. 
He said this during a panel discussion on the third day of the current session ofthe Chinese National Congress, the country's parliament. 
Finance Minister Wang Binggian said at Saturday's opening session that expenditure on national defense and "preparations against war" will total $12.9 billion this year, down from the $14.8 spent in 1979, the year China sent troops into Vietnam.The 1979 total was $1.3 billion over the amount budgeted. 
Peoole livine: near a Phelps Dodge Corp.. smelter p~nt have absorbedhigh levels ofarsenic and copper, according to arecent federal study. But the report, prepared by the Research Triangle Institute for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the Center for Disease Control, does not say what concentrations might jeopardize the health of residents here or in test sites in New Jersey, Oklahoma and Montana. The report was released last week. 
The Occupational Safety and Health Administration has said lung cancer mortality increases consistently with degree and duration of exposure to arsenic. 
Libya's leader wants Libya to merge with Syria and pledges to registeras a Palestinian guerrilla to fight against Israel. 
Moammar Khadafy said that if his people do not agree to union with Syria,he will go and fight as a commando with the Palestinians."Either this,decision is taken or I'm going to take arms and fight in Galilee,"Khadafy told a crowd of 50,000 gathered to celebrate the 11th anniversary. ::>f the coup that brought him to power. 
Khadafy technically does not have the right to decide to merge with Syriabecause authority rests with the Libyan masses under the theory of government he endorses. 


Hie:hs Tuesday around so witha4o 
percent'chance of rain. Mostly cloudy Tuesday night with lows 
in the low 60s. Partly cloudy Wednesday with highs in the low 
80s. 

taxing schoolyear without the omnipresent, albeit illegal and low class, al­ternative of Corby's, Goose's and Nickie's. 
The bottom line is this: the pressure is already building in the ranks ofN.D. and SMC students, and the traditional relief valves have been severely limited. The steam is looking for a way out of the pressure cooker. Football games, movies, dorm parties, and other activities help to relieve the pressure, but unless one or more of them is increased in frequency, the pressure won't be sufficiently vented. 
The result? It's hard to say, but a further increase in the number of those lonely Friday night alcoholics sitting with a bottle or a bong in their darkened, smoke-filled room could be one answer. Other answers could be increased psychological problems, vandalism, and social 
_ The_Qbser_ver 
Design Editor... Ryan VerBerkmoes Design Assistants...... Mary Leavitt Maureen Heraty Night Technician.... John Chaussee Day Technician. ........ Mike Mitri Design Staff ......... Amy Murray Eileen Murphy Copy Editor ....... Carol Mullaney News Editor ....... Margie Brassill Sports Layout..... Michael Ortman Typists . ........ Michelle Kelleher Myrtle Perkins Katie Beglane Marilyn Broderick Day Editor. ....... Patsy Campbell Ad Design_ ........ Mike Holsinger 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published M!lnday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is publishedby the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 Pllr year($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer. P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, indiana 46556. 
Th1 Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

John 




McGrath 
News Editor 
despair. 
Sure the bars weren't exactly the most proven 
and morals builders, but at-l~st they 
the time-proven opportunity to\meet 
and make new fri¥nds; There were tany 
after hangovers, but .at leas('ilre~:'·were 
in the prescenc~of Qther domei~:wh"b····, and not in the loJl.ely \dl:f§j>air of one's f ..........5 dorm room. \ . .,,_ },:·."'.#-···--....,........ we do have to to 
not cost in or renovation to the reconsideration of the keg that would promote a party atmosphere should the waste involved in '""'""~~"""• cases, and boxes of mJI'ft;,~~HHii!W'JiU{l-g the keg is not especially recycling 


Erratum 
In last Friday's edition of The Observer, Managing Editor Mark Rustmade reference in his "Inside,. column to a situation in the AthleticTraip.er's Department regarding an 
unnamed female trainer. Although it was clearly stated in the column that the information regarding the trainer was based purelyon rumor, /The Obse:ver regrets any possible misinter­pretationof fact which may have ensued. We apologize to the trainer mentioned-and her department for any unfortunate embarrassment which may haveoccurred because ofany falsifi(.! statements. 
!I(.~II!.A¥A~~~I AI ALl 80•0111C.t IICIIIIAI~'StSOUII!BIItO...,CQNCOROUAur IIII~IAA'-'iloiAr~BII.I.""'/51 JOI841;0.rlol.l.llri81WtCHtllKIWIIIIIu111 !iU!>PIIIIIIOCOIIIJ o~IIKttAM' lllJIIIIIII•IIIC!lAOS..,WA~!.AW RICOAIJWMI'ANt .,PirM()uiH flfUII!Ot.l.ltO >11lll~:or. 01 AHIIOM SI)JI~r,.l)I!IUlllli'>'"IT W.I.VNI •ncJAlliOURRIVIfiCI··•OUILIIS ~IUOolr!GioiiC~AACII• 


The Observer Tuesday, September 2, 1980-page 3 
Lunchtime rolls around and students crowd in the dining entrance, chatting with their friends, reading The Observer,and complaining about their empty stomachs as they wait. (photo by john Macor) 
DIRECTIVES 
f'rorN rh1 Offiu of 
DEAN OF STUDENTS 
August 27, 1980 

In its concern about alcohol abuse, the University will enforce the following regulations: 
1) Kegs and ponies are not permitted on campus under any circumstances. These containers and their hardware will be impounded by Security personnel and not returned to the students. 
2) Drinking in moderation is not prohib~ted in private residence rooms and in Residence Hall Party Rooms in accordance with the du Lac Student Manual and the Student Affairs Party Room Guidelines. Students are not allowed to drink at any time while walking en campus. 
3) Alcoholic beverages will not be tolerated in the footbnll stadium. Security and gate personnel have been asked to enforce this regulation. 
a. 
A student who drinks beer, wine or other alcohol in the stadium will be fined $50 as a minimum sanction. Serious abuse may lead to possible separation from the University Community. 

b. 
Non-student fans are subject to the alcohol regulations printed on the back of every general admission ticket. Violation of these rules may lead to expulsion from the stadium, removal from the roster for purchase of football tickets in the future 


~~~n~ possible arre~-t ~:o<

pob;~'"(z2_. 
I Jame A. Roem~r \.. D of Students 


BASEMt. NT NOME DAr F LAW SCHOOL LEGAL AID & Of:. END-1 ASSOCIATION ROOM B·12 283· .795 
11am· 2pm (M•F' other times by ap~ ointment 



WE HANDLE ALL FINANCIALLY QUALIFIED STUDENTS & STAFF 


attheStudent Activitiesoffice 

'' ' • ' ' • • .. 

ForSenateseats 


Republicans shell outbigbucks 
Republicans are spending millions of dollarsin hopes of breaking the generation-long emocratic control ofthe U. S. Senate. With 24 Democratic seats at stake in November,it could happen, but GOP strategists quietly are pinning mostof their hopes on 1982. 
Democrats, in the majority since 1954,say the conservative challenge is backfiring and predict Senate Democrats will hold or increase their 5 9-41 margin. 
"Just by virtue of the num­bers, we are going into an uphill fight," says :Sen. Wendell Ford 
Fordmotor loses lawsuit 
A Broward County Circuit Court jury awarded truck driver Willie Le.-!Hill and his wife Eloise $1.4 million from Ford after he wa:.; paralyzedfrom the waist down in a 1974 accident. The Hills also obtainedan $800,000 settlement from Palmetto Truck Sales, Inc., whichsold the Ford truck to Hill's employer, Barkett Oil Co. of Miami. 

You payyourself-we'll pay Jerry 
Bud the Can Man wants to make your old Aluminum cans help fight Muscular Dystrophy 
The Jerry Lewis Telethon is gone until nextyear, but unfortunately Muscular Dystrophy is not. 
You can help yourself and helpJerry's kids by bringing your discarded aluminum cans to Bud the Can Man 
He'll payyou a profitable price per pound 
and he'll donate an additlonall0¢ per pound 
to Fight Muscular Dystrophy now thru Sept. 6 



Bremen 
lron&Metal 
3113 Gertrude South Bend. 287-3311 
of Kentucky, chairman of the Democratic SenatorialCam­paign Committee. "But it is a volatile situation." 
Without doubt, the. numbers provide the GOP with a dra­maticl.opportunity. Of the 34 seats up in the Nov. 4 election, 24are held by Democrats. 
Sen. John Heinz of Penn­sylvania,chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, saysthe GOP could pick up the nine or 10 seats they need for control, but concedes a gain of three to six is "most probable." 
"I willlnot give them that," says Ford. 
Regardless of what happens in!Novenioer, says Heinz, "almost any political bookie 
will  give you even  odds  that  
Republicans  will  be  in  the  
Senate majority by 1982.  
Ford  conceded  the·  Re­ 

pubicans will be in striking distance of control in 1982 if they make gains this year, but both he and Majority Leader Robert C. Byrd, D-W. Va., said they don't expect such gains. 
"I think we are going to 
ickup some seats that will offset any losses that might occur ,"Byrd said. 
The Republican committeeis giving $5.~ million directly to candidates, putting up another $1.5 million inindirect support and pumping $500,000 into 
television commercialsaimed at 
congressional control. 
Ford said the Democratic 
panel has funneled approxi­
mately $500,000 into Senate 
races. 
Independently of the candi­
dates and parties, the National 
Political Conservative Action 
Committee has mounted an 
aggressive media campaign 
with six prominent Democratic 
liberals as its prime targets. 
The six are George 
McGovernof South Dakota, 
Frank Church of Ida,ho, 
chairman of theForeign Rela­
tions Committee, Assistant 
Majority Leader AlanCranston 
of California, John Culver of 
Iowa, Birch Bayhoflndiana and 
Thomas Eagleton of Missouri. 


Observer 

expands publication 
Editor-in-Chief 'Paul Mulla­ney announced yesterday that The Observer has maoe plans to add four Saturdays to its calendar of publication for the Fall 1980 semester. 
The Observer will publish on 
September 6, September 20, October 11, and November 22, inaddition to its 67 previously­scheduled dates this semester. 




0' I I I 

The Observer Tuesday, September 2, 1980-page 4 
In Pennsylvania 


Defunct college rises from dead 

This famtlt'ar octagon sign-did not binder these dedicated joggers from their daily routine. (photo by john Macor) 
Interested in PR? 
WSND AM/FM Public Relations Staff is recruiting newm,mbersfor the 1980-81 year. Call Bridget Berry at 7 425 or 8076 

21 9-283-4395 EVENINGS BY APPT. 
8-5 MON.-SAT. 
UNIVERSITY HAIR STYLISTS 
FULL SERVICE UNISEX CENTER HAIR CUTTING SPECIALISTS 
BADIN HALL NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 46556 
The N D Student Union and Midwest Events presents 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••, 






BILL COSBY 
in the round at the NO ACC 

FRIDAY SEPT 5 
···············•················································· 
PLENTYOFGOODSEATS STILL AVAILABLE 
Tickets:$7.50and $8.50 at the STUDENT UNION 


BOXOFFICE 

Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
I 

Philadelphia-Tiny Wilson 
College, given up for dead a 
year ago, is more alive than ever 
as it prepares for its 112th year 
with the·biggest class of new 
students since 1973. 

"What we've done is re­
markable," said •poli tical sci­
ence professor Donald Bietz, 
who took over as president 15 
months ago. 

That's when Franklin County Judge John Keller bowed to desperate, determined alumnae and'keptWilson open despite a shrinking enrollment and in­creasing deficits. 
"We started with really no students, halfalfaculty, virtually no administrative staffand less than half a board of trustees and now we have the largest group of new students,"Bletz said in a telephone interview from the 300-acre campus in Chambersburg, Pa. 
"Of course, we still have problems. Everything hasn't been solved. Our objective is a four-year liberal arts college consistent with the changing role of women. We have a long way to go, but what we have accomplished thus far shows it can be done." 
The new semester begins today, and there will be 96 new students, more than three times the 28 who showed up last September. The total on cam­pus then was 109, but it was a beginning. 
The new class, increasing the student body to179, is just short ofBletz's goal ofa yearago of 100. There will also be 35 part-time students taking con­tinuing education courses. 
Frank Kamus, director of admissions, said,"We're de ighted," pointing to freshmen 
)


(FOCUS 
enrollment figures that had steadily tumbled in recent years-39 in 1976,62 in1977, 56 in 1978 and the 28 last year. 
"I'm excited about the recovery," said Susan Nuss­baum, 20, ofMassapequa Park, 
N.Y.,president of the student government association. 
The college has no intention of going co-ed to ·accelerate enrollment. 
"If men apply, I guess I'd faint," said Jane Ensminger from Lawrenceville, N.J., a 1952 Wilson graduate and president of the alumnae. 
Among the newcomers are 10 women fromEthiopia, the West 
Indies,  Malaysia,  Nepal  
Morocco,  Ghana,  China,  
Taiwan and Kenya.  
Wilson  began  the  1978-79  

year with 214 students, 49 of them seniors, down sharply 
from its 1968 peak of 722. It also had a deficit of more than $1 million and was paying debts by dipping heavily into shrinking. endowments. 
BILL OOSBY OOR!IS! 
!hecontestant who displays the 
most creative banner welcoming BILLbackto campus will receive agreat seats to the 
Bill Oosby show, DIBBIBfor two at the Boar's Bead and 
will meet Bill Cosby in personII 
!hesecondandthirdmost creative contestants will receive afr•ticbts eachto the Bl11 Oosby showt 

·JUDGIBG WILLIIWID ct !HUBSSIP.r--_·~B;ct;;4~-;:::::::::.---l 
Its old-fashioned liberal arts curriculum justwasn't inspiring to career-conscious women 
eager to compete in the marketplace. 
"We had become too small to be attractive to prospective students," said Martha Walker,an attorney who was president of the · boardof trustees when the unexpected and unpopular decisionto close was made 18 months ago. 
The decision aroused alumnae to launch their successful 'save Wilson' campaign. They··did more than just send in checks, an effort 
which did raise a.record $1.4 million. They came back to their alma mater and painted 
dormitories, made curtains, pruned bushes,reupholstered furniture and gave cash for more scholarships. 

Coal's future 
holds renewed . energy 
The National Coal Associa­
tion estimatescoal provided 
more than 70 percent of U.S. 
energy needs in 1923but by 
1953, says Richard H. K. 
Vietor, an associate professorat 
the Harvard University busi 
ess school who has studied 
thehistory and finances of 
synthetic fuels, "the coal 
industry hadlost nearly half its 
market to petroleum and gas, 
and was fairlycharacterized as 
sick." 
Ralph E. Bailey, chairman of 
Conoco,lnc., the large oil and 
coal producer, says "the 
capacity to mineat least 100 
million tons per year over the 
present rate ofproduction 
exists right now." 
(continued on page 5) 
• • • Corby's 
(continued from page 1) 
favorably," Masters said. 
CommissionChairman]ames Sims said at the hearing that this wasa new issue and that perhaps it should be treated separate­ly,but nevertheless decided to consolidate the petition 
issue within the ongoing hearings on the revocation of Corby's license. 
The present hearings stemmed from a recommen­dation by the local ABC last April thatCorby's liquorlicense not be renewed because of several arrests of minors inside Corby's and the arrest and 
conviction of a Corby's bar­tender. Another hearing has been schedu-led for September 30. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Edr'tor-r'n-Chief ............ Paul Mullaney Managing Editor .............. Mark Rust 
SMC News Editor ........... Mary Leavin Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman Features Editor .............. Kate Farrell Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe Photo Editor .................. John Macor 
Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges Advertising Manager .. Mike Holsinger Production Manager .... Ann Monaghan 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the studer rs of t~e 

Editonals Editor ........... Mike Onufrak 
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collese. It does not ~eLessanly 

Semor Copy Editor ......... Lynne Daley 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news IS reported 

News Editor .... ,............. Pam Degnan 
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a 

News Edt/or ................ Tom Jackman
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are th_e v.ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the c~mmumty, and News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . John McGrath the free expression of·..-arying opinions on campus, through letters, 1s encouraged. SMCExecutive Editor .. Margie Brassil 
--,_ ~--------------------~--~
• 

The Observer Tuesday, September 2, 1980-page 5 
Acomrnerce major 


Former domer embezzles millions 
Mary Fran Callahan Senior Staff Reporter 

A former Notre Dame 
student, Herbert DeGreve, has 
been chaq~edwith embezzling 
$3.6 million from General 
Foods. 
DeGreve, who attended the University from 1940-42, never did graduate though according to the Registrar's Office, "He 
was in Commerce while he was 
here." A spokesperson for 
theOffice yesterday said she did 
have a reason why DeGreve 
leftthe University but could not 
release that reason without 
his personal pe·rmission. 
Antiquated records do shaN" that DeGreve was a part-time student who also attended Notre Dame summer school. Charged with enbe::dement in his West Haven, Florida, office by Federal Bureau of Investigation 
agents, DeGreve now faces serious consequences. 
He was arrested under an alias-which he assumed after he left the Marine Corps in the late forties-Michael O'Shea. A front pagestory in Sunday's Chicago Tribune detailed the clouded life of Michael O'Shea or Herbert DeGreve. 
His small Florida community held nothing but thoughts of respect and admiration for him; his boss at General Foods considered him"dedicated and loyal." DeGreve was described by one West Havenresiden t as a Little League coach, Catholic church usher,ex-FBI agent, retired Detroit Lions lineman and Notre Dame football 
hero-in general, a solid community pillar. 
DeGreve always wore, according to the article, aNotre Dameclass ring, which had no year inscribed on it, and also boastedof football days at the University. 
Known for his extreme generosity, DeGreve would donate large chunks of money to his church and also shower his secretarieswith lavish gifts-ranging from car tires to automobiles themselves. 
Recently, auditors from General Foods' New York based corporate headquarters discovered something was awry while they were performing a routine audit on the Florida office. Aftertracking down discrepancies to DeGreve's office, they thendid some personal research on the respected accountant. 
According to the Tribune article, DeGreve possessed quite a record for crime. Auto theft, embezzlement and interstate carrying of stolen goods all appeared as part-of a past which never would have 
...Coal 

continued from page 4) 
Many others also think the 
UnitedStates could do more to exploit its coal resources. Of the1,500 people polled in a Louis Harris & Associates nationwidesurvey in May, 62 ·percent backed an expansion of coal strip-mining to increase America's energy supply. But that would carryan environ mental cost, both in the mining 
and the burningof the coal. 
been suspected. DeGreve cited various reasons for his alsospent, the auditors learned, affluencedepending on who he 33 months behind bars in was talking to. The office was afederal facility. under the impression that he 
Apart from his secret had received an enormous tax­'business dealings,' the free inheritancefrom his wife's accountant'spersonal history father; his wife was under the also illuminated a Jeckyll & impressionthat he had become Hyde existance.DeGreve had financially lucrative as an four wives, two of which he accountant. abandoned. , He marriedhis The Tribune article said that fourth wife, who was 28, at the when DeGreve was arrested age of 58. She was notaware of bythe FBI agents, he held all his his previous marriages nor of earthly possessions in a the children he had .fathered brownpaper bag. Eleven during them. lawyers are now neck deep and 
Though DeGreve earned wading through all the what the Tribune called "a embezzlement's complex modestsalary," he lived like a paperwork scheme. prince in a country-club house. Meanwhile, DeGreve waits Healso owned a Mexican for a court date in Florida's hacienda along with a country PolkCounty Jail-with his house inNorth Carolina. He brown paper bag. 


r·­----~~-­-~--­---­---­--­------­----­-­-------­---­BuynowandgetFREE SolidStateSoftware Libraries. TI Programmables lead the field ture that retains data and program I 0 I've bough~TI-58C,:d:m~r;,;;-odule Here i;lin performance, quality and value. information even when the calcula­rTIY first choice and an alternate.You don't have to know how to tor is turned off. 0 I've pought a Tl-59. send me my two free modules and my membership (which entitles me to select three pro­program to get all the benefits And free modules now give you grams from the source catalog at no charge). Here are myavailable with a TI Programmable. that edge you need to succeed. module choices and an alternate. 1. 2~-----­These solid state library modules From August 15 to October 31, 3. --:-:---:::-:-::---~=-=---= are preprogrammed to help solve 1980 is your special opportunity to Sud Ill: n l.lbmy Ott.r, P.O. lo•1114, l.uiiHck, TX71M08.problems in: Engineering. Busi­purchase one of the world's most ad­Return this coupon: (1) with customer information card (packed in box), (2) a dated copv of proof of purcllase,ness. Finance. And other math vanced programmable calculators. between Aug 15 and Oct 31, 1980-items must be post­oriented courses. With up to 5,000 And get a minimum of $40 worth of marked by Nov 7, 1980. program steps in each module you free software modules with a TI-can save your own personal pro­58C. Or, when you buy a TI-59, get Name gramming for those classes which a minimum of $80 worth of software Addressneed it most. modules and an $18 one-year mem­The TI-59 has up to 960 program bership in PPX. This will allow you City State Zip steps or up to 100 memories. Mag­to select up to 3 programs (from Calculator Serial Number (from back of unit)netic card read/write capability lets over 2,500) written by professionals Please allow 30 days for delivery. OHer void whereyou record your own custom pro­in your field of study. prohibited OHer good in U.S. only grams or those received from PPX Visit your college bookstore or n I'IIOMS ttte nghtto aubllrtute modulesGFtlt~~Jrs-------­(Professional Program Exchange.) other TI retailer for more informa­w.s. suggested retail for all Li­lnnov,JtiOil The TI-58C features up to 480 tion, and let him help you select the braries is $40, except Fanning, $55, and Pool Water Analysis, $45.program steps or 60 memories. And TI Programmable and free software *US suggested retail price. ~ it has Tl's Constant Memory rM fea­that's right for you. **For use with Tl-59 only Texas Instruments technology ­bringing affordable electroni'cs to your fingertips. TEXAS INSTRUMENTS ~ 1980 Texas Instruments Incorporated INCORPORATED 45732  


-lEe~~·.~~============~====~========~========= 

Tuesday, September 2, 1980 -page6






Toda 


Campus' 
10 a.m.-4p.m.-registra­tion for music lessons, 236 crowley. 
6, 8, 10, and midnight­animal house movie, knights of columbus,admission $1. (members are admitted 
free.) 
Sp.m.-activities night, angela athletic facility. 

Carter 
•


campa1gns atp1cn1c 
TUSCOMBIA, Ala. (AP) ­President Carter, saying the Democratic party"offers the brightest economic future," told a Labor Day picnic todaythat an economic renewal will mean "jobs and stable prices foreveryone." 
The president appeared at the picnic in his native South after attending a $1,000-a-head fund-raiser at a local restaurant. 
Sticking to his campaign theme that the best future for America lieswith his re-elect­ion, the president said that "the Democratic Partyhas always been the party ofprogress. And Democratic leadership -to­gether withAmerican ingenuity and American dedication 
offers the brightest economic future for all the people of the United States." 
In remarks prepared for delivery, Carter said the nation has laid a good: energy !found­ation. "Now we· can renew our whole economy... Across the 
board, we are going to make our free-enterprise system more productive,more effi­cient, more competitive. And that's going to mean jobs and 
stable prices for everyone." 
Carter also took credit for rebuilding thenation's military strength "after years of decline before I took office."He de­clarea, "As long as I am your president, we will stay strong. 
,and America will work for peace." 
In an indirect reference to Republican Ronald Reagan's statement that the U.S. is engaged in an arms race with theSoviet Union, the president said he is working for arms control "to calma nuclear arms race before it destroys us all." 
He added, "That is whywe have opened full diplomatic relations wih the largest nation on earth, China. That is why we 
. have fought for peace and justicerin Africa. \That is even why we struggle to make our. nation energyj self-reliant, so that no nation may be tempted to risk the peace(by frying to blackmail us." On hand at the annual tri­state picnic were elected offi­cials from Alabama, Tennessee and Mississippi, areas ot the South which are traditional Democratic strongholds. Carter won almost all of the South four years ago, but it is not so safe againstReagan as it was against Gerald R Ford. 

Molarity 


;r KM:>W W#W" 'fOU t1E,1,N 
Jt>H~ ~/IIJEDY~ 

ASMSSINATION RE"AL.LV SH~ ~ IJI> WH~N I~ 
A KID 

Peanuts® 
THIS IS OUR LAST GAME 50 LET'5 ALL TRY' A5 ~ARD AS WE CAN ... 


8-21:, © 1980 United Feature Syndicate, Inc. 


ACROSS 34 Hospital 1 Smaller figure



The Daily Crossword 
amount 35 Support a 5 Dressing person gowns 36 A Gershwin 10 Superman's 37. Zodiac sign 
garb 38 Action: 14 Yearn suff. 15 Sidestep 39 Help out 16 Available 42 Push Into a 17 Critical tight spot 
remark 44 Wild ad· 18 Dogma venture 19 Give tempo· 45 Broke a 
rarlly sentence 20 With all Into parts 
. one's might 46 Hardy23 Garlands heroine 24 Snoods 47 Italian 27 Backward money 30 School 48 All the way 
exams 55 Half: pref. 

Monday's Solution 




9/2180 



WSND~~ 

NEEDS YOUI 

Interviews fot Am, Fm, News, Spotts, Ptoductlon, PR., Englneetlng, and Sales. No expetlence tequltedl TUE./WED. 6-11 3610'Shag 
MichaelMolinelli 
ARE lt'OU ACCUSING US OF NOT TR'r"ING ?! 

58 Producea chemical change 
59 Forearm bone 60 Middle East 
land 61 Carved gem 62 Pull up 63 Caroled 64 Coasters 65 Famous 
Italian name 
DOWN 1 Endure 2 Agreewith 3 Scram! 4 Sinks to 
the bottom 5 Holdonto 6 Baking com· 
partments 7 Musical 
group 8 Paradise 9 Bristle 
10 Irish lass 11 Tarzan's friend 12 After pig 
or bull 13 Call it 
a day 21 Rollcall word 
22 Partici­pating 25 Steps 
26 Streu of dirt 27 Old-woman· Ish 28 Most 
certain 29 Daze 30 Bangor's 
state 31 Decorated a cake 32 Landing 
piers: abbr. 33 Race 35 SmaJinail 37 So, that's 
It! 40 Spirited 41 Church part 42 Hospital 
section 43 Oblitera­tion 45 Certain beans 47 Added alcohol 49 Circle 
segments 50 Actual 51 Dull 52 Arena 
cheers 53 One 54 Narrow path 55 Family 
member 
56 Important period 57 Husband 




The Observer -SportsBoard Tuesday, September 2., 1980-page 7 
Ba~eball 

AMERICAN LEAGUE EAST 
w L Pet. G.B. New York 79 51 .608 Baltimore 77 52 .597 1 1/2 Boston 71 56 .559 6 1/2 Cleveland 68 62 .523 11 M llwaukee 70 62 .522 11 Detroit 67 64 .519111/2 Toronto 54 76 .415 25 
WEST 

Kansas C lty 85 Texas 65 Oakland 65  47 66 67  .644 .496191/2 .492 20  
Chicago M lnnesota California Seattle  56 57 51 47  72 76 78 83  .438 27 .429 28 1/2 .395 32 1/2 .362 37  

Yuterday's Gamu 

New York 5, Oakland 0 Baltimore 5, Seattle 4 Boston 4, California 3 Chicago 11, Detroit 3 Texas 9, Toronto 1 M llwaukee 6, Kansas City 1 Cleveland 5, M lnnesota 2 
Tonight'• Gamu California (Dorsey 0-0) at Boston (Renko 9-5) n Seattle (Beattie 4-12) at Bal­timore (Palmer 14-9) n Oakland (McCatty 10-12) at New York (May 11-5) n Chicago (Dotson 6-8) at Det­roit (Fidrych 0-2) n Toronto (Leal 1-3) at Texas (Jenkins 11-10) n Cleveland (Garland 6-6) at M lnnesota (Jackson 7-8) h Only games scheduled 
NATIONAL LEAGUE EAST 
w L Pet. G.B. Philadelphia 69 60 .535 Montreal 70 61 .534 Pittsburgh 71 62 .534 New York 59 72 .450 11 St. Louis 57 72 .442 12 Chicago 51 78 .395 18 
WEST Houston 75 57 .568 Los Angeles 74 57 .565 1/2 Clnclnnatl 72 59.55021/2 Atlanta 66 65 .504 8 1/2 San Francisco 66j65 .504181/2 San Olego 55 77 .417 20 
Yuterday's Ruults 

Houston 10, Pittsburgh 4 (1st) Pittsburgh 7, Houston 5 (2nd) Clnclnnatl 8, St. Louis 1 Philadelphia 6, San Francisco 4 Montreal 5, San 0 lego 3 Los Angeles 5, New York 2 Atlanta 5, Chicago 2 
Today'• Games 

Atlanta (Alexander 12-7) at Chicago (Krukow 8-13) Cincinnati (M oskau 9-5) at St. Louis (Forsch 10-7) n Montreal (Lea 4-5) at San Diego (Mura 4-7) n New York (Pacella 3-2) at Los Angeles (Goltz 6-7) n 
Philadelphia (Christensen 5-1) at San Francisco (Blue 12-7) n 
Only games scheduled 

Football 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Last Night's Ruult 

Texas 23, Arkansas 17 

Buy an 




~~~ &~~

o' 
Classified Today I 


Sports Briefs~____, 
Swimmersto organize at Rock 
The Notre Dame swimming team will hold a brief organizational meeting•tomorrow afternoon at 4 p.m. in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial. All freshman men or women are welcome as well as other interested new­comers.Returning varsity swimmers are askedo\toreport at 
4:30. Notre Dame women who are not interested in 
swimming on the Irish varsity (which swims against mainly malecompetition) but still want to swim competitively, should meet inthe same room at 5:00. 1 

Mandatory meeting for lacrosse 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team will hold a mandatory meetingfor all those who are interested in playing next spring. Themeeting is scheduled for tomorrow afternoon at 
4:30 in theACC auditorium. All returning players, as wel~ as any newplayers interested in taking p~rt in the_ team's fust varsity season,must attend. For more mformat10n, contact Rich O'Leary at4563. 
Offcampusfootball sign-ups 
There will be a general sign up for any men or women living off campuswho are interested in playing interhall football this fall. The signups1will be in the LaFortune lobby this afternoon from 12 noon to 2:30 and tomorrow afternoon from noon to 2:00. 

Innertube water polorosters due 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's intramural co-ree intertube water poloentry deadline is approaching rapidly. A~y teams interested inparticipating should contact M1ke Corb1esero at 8987 or Matt Stolwykat 8891 or 8906 with the entry rost~rs. The entry deadline is thisSaturday (Sept. 6) and the fust games will be played onSunday( Sept. 7). Rosters should have between 1oand 15 players andmust list a minimum of four 
women. 


Brettgoes 1-for-4,drops to .401 
KANSAS CI1Y, Mo. (AP) ·-Major league baseb~ll's leading hitter, Kansas City's George Brett, was hc:ld to JUSt one hit in four at-bats in yesterday's 6-1 loss to Milwaukee. The Royal's third baseman's .250 day saw his season average drop to .401. 
Lopez-Melton ralliesto victory 
SPRINGFIELD, ILL. (AP)-Nancy Lopez-Melton sank a 10-footbirdie putt on the 18th hole in rallying to a one-stroke overJoAnne Carner yesterday in the $125,000 LPGA Rail Charity Classic. • 
The first-place finish was worth $18,750 for Lopez-Mel ton, who had a 68for the day and 275, 13-under-par for the tourney. Carner had 71for the fourth round and 276 for the 
tourney. 
Cobb dumpedby Bengals 
CINCINNATI (AP) --Safety M~rvin Co~b.doesn't think his involvement with the players assoctauon caused the Cincinnati Bengals to make him one of seven players cut by the team yesterdaf. 
"No one said I couldn't play the ga~e," said C:obb, embroiled in an off-season controversy w1th the Nauonal Football League Player's Association leadership. "They just told me they were going with youth.'' 
Cobb, a five-year veteran, and wide receiver Billy Brooks, hindered by knee problems, were two 1979 starters put on waivers yesterday. 
Brooks has threatened leg~l action. a~ainst the Bengals i~ a dispute over how the rece1Ver remJured the knee while playing tennis in June. Brooks wants the Bengals to pay for the remaining two years of his contrac 
Are you interested in SALES WORK? 
The OBSERVER has an opening for the position of ADVERTISING SALES MANAGER 
If you're-energetic 1/ efficient 


...Kiel 
[continuedfrom page 8) 
leaving without so much as a 
whimper. 
Kiel need look no further 
than Koegel to get afrightening 
reminder of how high school 
All-Americans 1don't always 
grow up to be college All­
Americans. 
Four years ago, Tim Koegel 
and Mark Herrmann were 1the 
Blair Kiel and Scott Grooms of 
the football world. When the 
Irish landed Koegel, 
Herrmann decided that South 
Bend wasn't big enough for 
the both of them, and took his 
golden arm to Purdue.He'll be 
making the fourth start against 
the Irish in his career Saturday. 
But Kiel doesn't admit to any 
fear of spending four years as 
someone else's caddy if 
Grooms should win the job. 
"It entered my mind," he 
allows, "but I made UPimy mind 
first to come here. I think we're 
both here to help Notre Dame 
win." 
IfDan Devine and his staffare 
looking for apoised quarter­
back to lead the Irish against 
Purdue, they don't have to 
bother looking pastKiel. He 
tosses bouquets at the veteran 
quarterback at every opportu­
nity, and doesn't see his 
situationas one of the world's 
ten major crises. 
"They've been here four 1 years and they know the 
system," he says. "So that's a 
big advantage for them. But 
they've all gone outoftheir way 
to help me, which shows what 
kind of guys we have on this 
team." 
"I'm just trying to do my 1best," says Kiel. "The coaches ·will make up their minds, and they'll (pick )the player who deserves to be number one. If it's1me, fine. If not, that's fine, too." 
Kiel isn't afraid to admit that his biggest hurdleas a freshman hasn't been on the playing field orin the meeting rooms, but just getting accustomedto college life. 
"Maybe it sounds like a baby, but the hardest thinghas been being on my own," he admits. "Football has been tough, having to come in and learn a new system andeverything, but what makes it tougher is being away from home." 
Home for Kiel is Columbus, Ind., where he grew upcheering for Notre Dame. 
"Ever since I was really young 
' I followed NotreDame, and in the back of my mind, I always wanted to come here. I remember when I got my first letterfrom Notre Dame -it was a dream come true. Thefirst thing I noticed was the gold helmet on the envelope." That might not have set too well with his parents,both of whom attended Purdue. But Blair promises they'll both be cheering for the Irish Saturday.And regardless ofwho emerges from Notre Dame'soffensive huddle, they'll have an opportunity toroot for their son since Kiel has already laidclaim to Notre Dame's 
1punting job. But there's a growing feeling around Notre Damethat Kiel, who still may be having his problems negotiating his way around campus, won't have nearly as much trouble finding the end zone. 
TomoTTOw: Tim Koegel 
• • . U·S· Open 
[continuedfrom page B) 
survivors in thequarterfinals, 
man to win thefour majors, eliminating fourth-seeded 
which also include theAustra­Guillermo Vilas of Argentina, 
lian Open in December, was who wonthe Open in 1977, the 
RodLaver in 1969. last year it washeld in Forest 
Hills on the clay-likesurface he 
And once again, Tanner and prefers.his150-mile-an-hour serves Fibak broke Vilas in the fifth stand inBorg's path. Last year, andninth games of the fourth 
on a Wednesday night under the set to win3-6, 6-3, 6-4, 6-3, 
stadiumlights he detests, Borg proclaiming it agreat day for 
couldn't solve Tanner's Poland and Poland's onlyworld booming left-handeddeliveries class player. 
and lost in four sets. Third-seeded Chris Evert 
Lloyd soundlydefeated fellow"I've requested a night Floridian Joanne Russell6-2, 6­match,"Tanner joked after 1 in the fourth round. Lloydbeating BrianTeacher 6-3, 6-4, willmeet No. 11 Kathy Jordan,
5-7, 6-2. 
a 7-5, 6-3winner over Yugo-/ Wojtek Fibak of Poland, the slavia's Mirna Jausovec,in the 14th seed,also joined the quarterfinals. 
!heOBSIBVIB Reecll 


PBO!OIRAPBIRS 
!hisII apaidposl,loawi'h beaefl'•· .Knowl&qeofdulaoom techD.lque• a mud. Call.Johallacor•' 1.,11 or 1106. (but 11 to mlbilht) 

---~------­


-Sports 
'Thumbs Down' 

Riggins is a disgrace to sports 
Things like this find their way into the sports pages too often these days. It's one of those stories that makes the hard-working sports fans,sick to their stomachs. 
Five weeks and two days ago, John Riggins up and left the WashingtonRedskins' Carlisle, Pa., training camp. A few days later he decidedto let a few people know why -something to do with his $300,000 a year contract. 
con' trakt, n. 1. An agreement or covenant between two orJmore parties, in which each party binds himself to do or forbear some act. 
From the Redskin's standpoint, it's quite simple. You play football for us for five years plus an option year if you want, and we'll give you$300,000 each year. And by the way, if you get hurt and can't help us one year (like he did early in the 1977 season), don't worry. The 
money's still yours. 
So when a discontented John Riggins had completed his first 1,000-yard season for the New York Jets in 1975, he packed his bags and set outfor greener pastures inWashington as a free agent. Uponhis arrival in the nation's capital, Riggins signed one of those neat little things called a contract and donned the 
burgundy and gold. 
It has often been said that a contract is only as good as the people who sign it. In that regard, John Riggins isn't worth a bucket of spit. 
Yes, Riggins is without a doubt, the best fullback (I didn't say running back) in the game today. He is amo~g the top ten rushers on the NFL's all-time list. He racked up 1,160yards last season for the Redskins, a career high, and averaged 4.5 yards a carry. There's little doubt that he was one of, ifnot the major factor in the team's surprising success in 1979. 
Let's just say that success went to his head a little -no,make that ... to his head a lot ­about $200,000 worth. 
Sources in Washington told me yesterday that Riggins' demands are quite simple.All he wants is $500,000 for this, the final year ofhis five year pact, plus a guarenteed $500,000 for next season,his option year, whether he plays or not. 

Michael Ortman 


After that, he says he'll call it quits. 
Isn't that nice of him? 

It's funny that in 1977, when Riggin's spent most oftheyear recovering from an early-season knee injury, he didn'toffer to refund any ofJack Kent Cook's investment. That year, Riggins carried the ball just 68 times for 20 3 yards. That comes out to $1,500 a yard! 
But now let's not be inhuman. Injuries are part of the gameand,players should be compensated -I think they call it workman's,compensation. 
The point isn't what Riggins got, or even what he wants. Rather, it's what he's doing. Businessmen call it breach of contract. 
Ho hum, what ever happened to that lovable All-American from Kansas who not only broke all ofGale Sayers' records, butwhonever missed a game or a practice in college? 
Right now, the Redskins must make do without him. They can't give in to his demands bacause if they do, why shouldn't Joe TheismanorKen Houston or anyone else do the same? Washington sent two second round draft picks to San Francisco two weeks ago in exchange for Wilbur Jackson, an adequate relacement for the AWOL Riggins. 
On Sunday, the 'Skins finally removed him from the roster, placing him on the "left camp­retired" list, whatever that is. 
Redskin fans are making no bones about it. They would like to havehim back but only if he returns on his knees. They'd like nothing more than to win it all without him. 
Since the Redskins close the regular season in St. Louis, Riggins has told his teammates from his Lawrence, Kan., hermitage to "Meet Me In St. Louie." 
Most Washington partisans are telling John Riggins to "Watch Us (on TV) InNew Orleans." 

Cool Kiellearning the ropes 
EDITOR'S NOTE: This is the second in a five-part senes analyzinft_ each of Notre Dame 's five leading quarter­backs. The order in which these features appear in no way reflects the position each occupzes on the lnsh depth chart. 
by Craig Chval Sports Writer 
Blair Kiel rna y not yet know where Keenan Hall is, but nobody is going to have to show him his way around thefootball field. Or anyplace else, for that matter. 
With the vast majority of his day taken up on the practice field, in film sessions and in the classroom,Kiel can be excused for ngt having had time to explore much of the campus. The 6-1 freshman quarterback gives the distinct impression that he won't be forced to make many excuses for his performances on the grid­iron, though. 
But don't worry. Kiel is not merely the latest in along line of players subscribing to the Hollywood Henderson "Toot my own orchestra" philosophy. In fact,Kiel's attitude is quite refreshing in this "squeaky 
wheel gets the ink" day and age. 
He is confidentwithoutbeing cocky. It is almost in the way he chooses his words, rather than the words he chooses, that conveys his message. At times, completing 60 percent of his passes_ as Art Slichter's successorat Miami Trace High Schoo1. There are many, mindfulof Slichter's fabulous career at Ohio State, who feel 


Grooms is the best man for the job. 
The other three candidates are seniors. Tim Koegel, a former phenomenon from Cincinnati's Moeller High School, entered Notre Dame three years ago with a reputationequal to Kiel's. After three seasons, Koegel has accumulated even fewer enemies than playing time. He 
is an overwhelming sentimental favorite. Mike Courey and Greg Knafelc likewise came to Notre Dame amid much fanfare, and are less 
tt 1s what he leaves unsaid, than thrilled at the prospect of 
instead of what he says,that 

[continued on page 7]
creates the lasting impression. 

Tuesday, September 2, 1980-page 8 

Sweden's Bjorn Borg [above] advanced to the quarterfinals of the U.S. Open yesterday w£th an easy win over Yannick. Noah ofFrance. See story below. 
Leopold, Montana stick with 49ers as Hughes gets axed 
by Michael Ortman Associate Sports Editor 

The San Francisco 49ers made their final five cuts yesterday, bringing the team roster down to the regulation 4 5 men. Among the casualties was former Notre Dame offensive guard Ernie Hughes. 
Formerly referred to by many in Notre Dame circles as the "San Francisco Fighting Irish," the 49ers now have just two former Notre Dame players 
under contract, quarterback Joe Montana and linebacker Bobby Leopold. 
Just four months' ago, San Francisco had five Notre Dame grads on the roster. In addition to Montana, Leopold and Hughes, the 49ers had attained the services of defensive end Willie Fry from Pittsburghand also had plans for former All­


American  tight  end  Ken  
MacAfee.  
But  after  Fry  failed  his  

physical, he was returned to the Steelers, andMacAfee failed to live up to expectations and was cut two weeks ago.The 24-year old tight end was soon picked up by the Buffalo Bills and later released. 
San Francisco head coach Bill Walsh appears to have big plans for both remainingNotre Dame alums. A team spokesman said yesterday that Montana's impresstVe pre-season per­formance hadearned him a solid hold on the backup spot to veteran Scott DeBerg,a sense of security he has lacked since the 49ers drafted him in thethird round in 1919. 
During four pre-season games this summer, Montana completed 41 of 55 passes 
covering 396 yards. He also connected on a pair of touch­down passes and did not throw a single interception. 
The spokesman also said that Leopold ·had impressed the coaching staff this summer and would see considerable actio nat middle linebacker this season, although he would probably not start. 
The pressures of playing quarterback at Notre Dame have been documented 

Borg advances,. Vilas, Navratilovafall 
elsewhere countless times. But Kieldoesn't have to take a New York (AP)-The U.S. back seat to anyone in that Open title, which haseluded the department. top two stars from Wimbledon 
He comes to Notre Dame lately,once again avoided the after capturing every high grasp of Martina Navratilova 
school All-America award but Bjorn Borg was still in conceivable. He walks into a contention Mondayafter he five-man fray for the starting gave a tennis lesson to rising quarterback position. Frenchman Yannick Noah 6-3, 
Kiel is competing against 6-3, 6-0. Scott Grooms, a freshman not The second-seeded Navrat unlike himself. Grooms also ilova, Wimbledonchamp in won everyAll-America accolade 1978 and 1979, was upset by there was to be won after No. 9Hana Mandlikova 7-6, 6­
4. It was the secondtime in two weeks that the 18-year old Mandlikova had beaten Navratilova instraight sets. 
Mandlikova, a protege of Navratilova'sbefore she defected to the United States 
from Czechoslovakia in 1975, jubilantlythrust her arms to the 
sky  then  slammedthe  racket  
down  on  the  net  after  
matchpoint.  

Borg, five-time Wimbledon king, alsocould win his first U.S. 
Open, providedhe can get by Roscoe Tanner, who destroyed 
the Swede's Grand Slam hopes at the samepoint in the tournament last year. 
Once again, Borg moves into thequarterfinals of the one majortournament that has eluded his two-fistedgrasp with the victories as the FrenchOpen and Wimbledon-halfway toward theGrand Slam. The last 
[continued on page 7] 







