... Cartoons -page 8 

VOL. XV, NO. 56 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1980 
Algerians deliver US reply on hostages to Iranians 
carried with him a pledge ofnon­interference and an explanation of U.S. legal difficulties in meeting other demands. 
In Algiers, official sources said the U.S. note was delivered to Tehran by Abdelkrim Gheraib and Redha Malek, Algeria's ambassadors to Tehran and Washington respectively. 
"Now it's up to the Iranians," said one of the officials, adding that he could not predict how long it would take for Iran to study the American response and react to it. 
In an unprecedented interview with an American radio station that apparently had the approval of some Iranian officials, L. Bruce Laingen, the senior U.S. envoy held hostage at the Foreign Ministry in Tehran said he was fine and "We'1e anxious to leave, hopeful." 
The hostages were gratified by the support being given by the American public, Laingen told radio station KAYO in Seattle, Wash. He added: "We have no doubt that that is continuing, and at this particularly crucial time in the discussions going on support is even more important than ever." 
Laingen said he could not comment on the note's delivery because he was "out of touch in terms of the substance of the problem." 

Pollution causes indoor probletns 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP)­Algerian envoys acting as inter­mediaries for the United States delivered the U.S. reply yester­day tb Iran's terms for releasing the 52 American hostages. U.S. negotiators, who flew home after passing the note, said they were uncertain of their next step. 
In Tehran, an official in the office of Prime Minister Mohammad Ali Rajai said, "The government has received America's letter." In a telephone interview from Beirut, Ahmed Azizi said a Cabinet meeting had been scheduled to discuss the rt=ply but he did not know when it would begin. 
Tehran Radio broadcasts during the day rr.,~rie no mention of the U.S. reply being received. Thert= was a report the Iranian regime planned to publish the text of the note Thursday or Friday, but that was not officially confirmed. 
Ayatollah Mohamed Beheshti, head of the Islamic Republican Party and president of the Iranian Supreme Court, said Iran's parliamt=nt, the Majlis, would have to consider how Iran might proceed "if one or two of the conditions set by Iran for the liberation of the American detainet=s cannot he legally ful filled by the United States," the official Algerian news agency reported from Tehran. 
In a meeting eleven days ago, the Iranian Parliament approved four demands outlined six weeks earlier by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, Iran's revolutionary leader. The demands are: return of the wealth of the late Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi; can­
cellation  of  American  claims  
against Iran;  a  pledge of non­ 
intervention  in  Iranian  affairs  

and unfreezing of some $8 billion of Iranian assets in V.S. banks. 
Deputy Secretary of State Warren Christopher, who gave the Algerians the U.S. reply and a lengthy oral explanation ofit in a 30-hour visit to Algiers, told reporters on his return to Washington: "where we go from here will depend on the reaction of the Iranians." Christopher 


In Birmingham 

Hotel refuses rooms to ND alumni 
by Sue Kelleher 
The gridiron battle between the Irish and the Crimson Tide will not be the only one occurring in Birmingham this week. The fight between the Notre Dame Club in Alabama and the Sheraton Mountainbrook Inn, Birmingham, has yet to be fought. Local alumni were denied rooms at the hotel for which reservations were made months in advance, and the ND Club has since filed suit to recover financial losses from the subsequent battle. 
In early September, Alumni Club Member John A. O'Brien made reservations at three Birmingham hotels. 225 were reserved at the Hilton Hotel and 55 rooms were reserved at the Ramada Inn. O'Brien also reserved 21 rooms for those alumni particularly close to the team, at the Sheraton. 
In a telephone interview, O'Brien said,"Basically, the Sheraton came back and cancelled my reservation, saying that I didn't make a deposit." O'Brien added that, initially, the hotel neglected to inform him that a deposit was necessary. He immediately made the $500 deposit and his reservations were reinstated. 
For reasons not yet clear, the Sheraton once again cancelled O'Brien's reservations in early October. As compensation, the Sheraton offered lodging in other Birmingham motels, but O'Brien refused the offer. He described his predicament by saying,"! had 21 people hanging out on a string." . . 
Shortly after the incident, an irate O'Bnen filed a damages. s.mt against the Sheraton. He obtained a temporary courtorder, requmng. the Sheraton to adhere to the original contract. 
There is a hearing scheduled for this Monday at 8 a.m. O'Brien hopes to receive enough money in damages to cover the legal costs and a $500 injunction fee. 
Though he is grateful for the injunction, O'Brien laments that the whole ordeal has been "one big hassle." 
Mike Clark, the Sheraton's general manager, refused to elaborate on the matter, saying, "As long as this case is pending in Judge Barber's court, I am not at liberty to discuss any details of the case." 
Senate dumps Reagan tax legislation 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The outgoing Democratic-control­led 96th Congress, embarking on a final "lame-duck'' session. junked plans yesterday for con­sideration of a tax cut backed by President-elect Ronald Reagan. 
Senate Democrats voted over­whelmingly against even bring­ing the tax cut bill to the floor­a measure House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill announced President Carter was prepared to veto if it reached his desk. 
Leaders promised that the session-the first post-election meeting of Congress in a presidential election year in 32 years-would be brief, with a shortened agenda. 
Although congressional Republicans were still pressing for enactment of a tax cut this year, the proposal was virtually buried-at least until 1981 ­when Senate Democrats voted in a closed-door caucus against bringing it to the Senate floor. 
At the same time, O'Neill told reporters that he had discussed the tax-cut proposal with Carter 
in  a  Monday  evening  phone  
conversation.  
"The  president  told  me  he  

would veto a tax bill were it to reach his desk. He said it would be inflationary," O'Neill said. 
Thus, Republicans will ap­parently hav~ to wait until next year before pushing the kind of tax cut that Reagan has made the centerpiece of his · economic program. 
"We felt Mr. Reagan ought to have his time at bat," Senate Majority Leader Robert C. Byrd told reporters after the Senate caucus vote. 
Byrd had previously favored an immediate tax cut, but said he changed his mind after talking to the president and assessing the situation in the House where there never was much support for the tax cut proposal. 
No major new legislation is expected to be approved, beyond needed budget and ap­propriations bills and several measures already well on the way toward passage, O'Neill said. 
Meanwhile, the speaker, who becomes his party's highestrank­ing elected oficial once Republicans take over both the White House and the Senate in 
January, said rebuilding the Democratic Party would require a "dynamic figure" as party chairman. 
He did not mention the cur­rent chairman, John C. White, who has indicated he would like to stay on. O'Neill aide Gary Hymel said the speaker's remarks weren't intended as a slap at White. 
The Senate began the lame­duck session by taking up a $9.5 7 billion appropriation bill for several federal departments while the House debated a prposed extension of govern­ment's revenue sharing program, which expired last October 1. 
By Rasa Gustaitis: Pacific News Service: EDITOR'S NOTE: Fatlure to take allfactors into account in the design of new energy-efficient office but/dings and homes bas resulted in increased levels ofindoor air pollution which is causing a growing health hazard. Unfortunately, no government agency is responsiblefor indoor air, and no health standards exist, reports Rasa Gustaitis, a PNS editor. 
Indoor air pollution, especially in new energy-efficient homes and offices, is making many Americans sick and posing a health hazard to countless others. 
The hazard is growing more serious with the growing use of man-made building materials, some of which emit harmful vapors, and with energy con­servation measures that reduce ventilation. 
"Buildings today-new build­ings in particular-are causing people to get sick," said Assemblyman Floyd Mori, ~hairman of a joint legi~l:ttive subcommittee holding hearings on the subject in California this fall. 
"Most of us spend most of our life indoors," he said. "Indoor air pollution is one of the major problems we will face in the future." 
The problem has become something of a headache itself for citizens who have discovered that no official agency is in charge and no standards exist. 
The Environmental Protec­
[continued on page 4] 




1\T~~Sct:J:~=:·=~~~~S========~==================T=h=u=rs=da=y=,N==ov=e=m=b=e=r=l3=,=1=98=0=-==P=a=ge~2 
by The ObJerver and The AJJociated PreJJ 
. 

Retired General Alexander M. HaigJr., the former White House chiefofstaff, says he has notbeenasked to serve as secretary ofstate or secretary ofdefense in the coming Ronald Reagan administration. Some political observers believe those two posts may be offered to the onetime commander ofallied forces in Europe. Haig has been a strong supporter of Reagan. He said he is "perfectly happy" in his current job as president of the huge United Technologies corporation. In his remarks, the 55-yearold Haig termed Reagan's victory over President Carter "a profound shift in national direction demanded by the American electorate." He said that in Reagan, the United States will have a leader who recognizes that "twenty years of neglect ofAmerican'defense forces has finally placed us in a position where an American president, with or without Salt II, finds himself, in a number of areas of measurement, inferior to the Soviet Union." 
The rumbling Pavlof volcano 
on the tip of the Alaska Peninsula spewed ash, rocks and lava down its snow-covered flanks yesterday after erupting "like a big blowtorch" one day earlier. Pilots flying near the 8,905 foot peak reported that ash was drifting northwest, at altitudes up to 15,000 feet, making it impossible for them to get a close lookat the mountain. "It looks like night over there because of the ash " said a Federal Aviation Administration spokesman in Cold Bay, 35 miles southwest of the m~untain a~d the nearest community of any size. Everett Sk1nner, a pdot for !:~eve Aleutian Airways, reported Tuesday the volcano erupted like a big blowtorch." Lava poured from the mountainintermittentl.y throughout Tuesday night, said witnesses in Cold Bay. Pavlof 1s one of the most active of Alaska's long chain of volcanoes, which stretches from near Anchorage down the Alaska Peninsula through the Aleutian Islands. Pavlof, southwest of Anchorage, last erupted in 1975 and 1976. More than 25 eruptions have been recorded there since 1700. 
Israeli Prime Minister Menachem 
Begin, vowing to keep up the search for peace in the Middle East, arrived today for talks with President Carter on the slow­moving negotiations over Palestinian autonomy. Begin's visit could mark the start of an effort by Carter to set up another Midea,st summit meeting before he leaves the White House in January. However, the ultimate decision on whether there will be a summit appears to be in the hands of Egyptian President Anwar Sadat. After Carter sees Begin he will get in touch with Sadat. Begin, who sees the president today, said, "The process of peacemaking should go on-will go on." He was greeted at blustery Andrews Air Force Base in nearby Maryland by Secretary ofState Edwin S. Muskie, who told the Israeli leader that "our welcome is as warm as the day is cold." 
-Jeanne, the most oowerful 
hurncane ever to work its way so far north in tfie GulfofMexic,o so late in the season, drifted slowly south of New Orleans yesterday and forecasters said it may not reach land with any punch. The chilly waters of the Gulfsapped the strength of the storm, the first November hurricane in 14 years. At 5 p.m. EST yesterday, the storm, with winds of75 mph, was centered aBout 400 miles south of New Orleans, near latitude 24.0 north, longitu~O.O west. Gale force winds extended 150 miles north of the Hurricane and 100 miles to the south. The storm was moving west at about 5 mph. But foreasters said it was doubtful that Jeanne would reach land with any significant force. "Everything's against it," said Gil Clark of the National Hurricane Center. "It probably won't make it to land." Jeanne, the first Atlanticarea hurricane to form in November since 1966, was farther north and west than any tropical storm ever recorded so late in the season. 
The anti-draft movement turned 
to President-elect Ronald Reagan yesteray in an attempt to halt the next round ofregistration. The Rev. Barry Lynn, head ofthe CommitteeAgainst Registration and the Draft, asked Reagan in a letter to move quickly to end draft registration. During the campaign Reagan said he oppoes peacetime draft registration because it is unnecessary and limits personal freedom. Lynn asked Reagan to make an announcement that, once he takes office onJan. 20, he will issue an executive order canceling the registration program. More than 3.5 million men born in 1960 and 1961 were registered last summer, and registration ofmen born in 1962 is scheduled to get under way onJan. 5. A ~eagan announcement now that he plans to cancel the program would likely lead to a decision not to go ahead with the January registration, which is expected to cost about $5 million, Lynn said. 
Variable cloudineSSwith a 20 percent chance ofshowers today. Highs in the mid to upper 50s. Cloudy with a 50 percent chance ofrain tonight. Lows in the upper 30s. Mostly cloudy and cooler tomorrow with a chance of rain. Highs in the mid 40s. · 
Inside ThUrsday 

Media and selling Reagan 
As liberals and otherprophets ofdoom continue to reconcile themselves to the fact that Ronald Reagan did win the presidency, it's time to step back for a momentand examine the role the media played in Reagan's startlingly large victory. It's a discussion first begun in this space last Friday by Managing Editor Mark Rust, and we will attempt to correct some ofhis basic misconceptions while offering some insights of our own. 
Let's begin with this basic disagreement. "The media clearly loves him," Rust wrote of Reagan. "They held their collective passion in check throughout the election, refraining from salivat­ing too often over his sense of dramatics." Vomiting, we feel, would be a more accurate description ofthe media's oral reaction to Reagan. 
Liberals such as William Raspberry, Joseph Kraft, Anthony Lewis (dubbed "the Imam of the liberals" by the Village Voke'J Cockburn and Ridgeway) and Morton Kondracke far outnumber conservatives su~h as George Will and William Buckley, not just on the op-ed page but in the reportorial ranks as well. The alarming rise of the New Right and the Moral Majority has been thoroughly documented in every publication from The New Republic to Tiger Beat. EJquire magazine headlined its August cover with the plea, "We warned you about Johnson. We warned you about Nixon. We warn ed you about Carter. Now will you pleaJe listen to us aboutREAGAN?" EJquire'J circulation has beendeclin­ing steadily for years now. 
The electronic press was no different. Bill Plante of CBS News followed Reagan around the country for months, and twice compiled potentially deva­stating indictments of Reagan's campaign tech­nique, one a quote-by-quo'te analysis of position switches, the otheranexpoJe of the true facts behind Reagan's famed statistics. 
-Richard Reeves, in a sum­mer special on ABC en­titled "Lights, Cameras, Politics," portrayed Reagan as a blithering idiot in one segment ofthe program. He followed an early campaign commercial with tape of a confused reply by the candidate regarding the same ad onan "Issues and Answers" program. After the Republican convention, CBS ran an hilarious collection of footage showing George Bush repeatedly denying he would consider a vice­presidential spot on the GOP ticket. From all conversations we have had with journalists during this campaign, especially in Detroit, it is clear that Ronald Reagan offends the intelligence ofa majority ofthe national press, and that revulsion often found its way into print in the past year. Conservative publications such as the 
Design Editor .............. Steve Swonk Design Assts.. ................ Anne Fultz Deirdre Murphy Tom O'Connor Day/Night Techs.... ....... Bruce Oakley Pat-city Classifieds. .................. Anne Fultz News Editor .......... , ... Margie Brassil Features Layout.. ....... Michael Onufrak Sports Layout ....... -. · · · · Dave !.Win Typists ................... Suzy Sulentic Cindy Jones Deirdre Murphy Systems Technician ....... Chris Alb,ertolli Photographer ............ Linda Shanahan Our Guests ............... The Max Man Bumsickle  
The Obaervar (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductloorights are reserved.  

Montgomery Elevator Company, Moline, Illinois 61265 Montgomery Elevator Co.• Limited, Toronto, Ontano M9B3S5 Offices in principal cities of North Amenca 


Tom Jackman. 
Executive News Editor 

National Review and The Amerkan Spectator are in the 
moral minority among the still liberal media in 
1980. 

Indeed, one need look no further than The 
ObJerver, which endorsed John Anderson, Birch 
Bayh and John Brademas in the face of obvious 
campus sentiment to the other extreme. The paper followed this with an editorial page which one day contained articles entitled, "'I ·voted for Jimmy Carter:' A true confession," (Mike Onufrak, editorials editor), "The case against Ronald Reagan," (Anthony Walton, regular columnist), and "Liberalism in America not dead yet," Oim Murphy, head of the Young Democrats). One "Inside" columnist also pro­claimed his backing for Anderson in this space. 
All this should hearten those who fear that the 
power and influence of the media is getting out of 
hand. Reagan won big despite what we feel was an 
obvious bias against him. Jimmy Carter also 
repulsed the press, but it was incompetence whkh 
made him unacceptable, 
_not his ideas and programs. 
Perhaps the American 
public can be credited with 
greater independence in 
making up its mind in 
1980. 

Unfortunately, we don't 
think so. Instead, the re­
verse can be said. The in­
fluence of television, that 
medium so vastly reviled in 
print, became even greater 
in this campaign-not its 
editorial influence, which 
was almost negligible, but 
its visual impact. News­
papers and magazines are 
for ideas: television is for 
f.~· images, and it can no long­
~ () er be denied that, in the 
_ mind of the average American voter, images are much more important to the qecision-making thought process than ideas. 
ln this campaign, the national press had a virtual 
field day with such Reaganisms as the toxic quality 
of trees, the birthplace of the Ku Klux Klan or 
problems with the theory of evolution. He often 
sounded quite silly. But it didn't matter. These 
serious, repeated gaffes-didn't bother the average 
voter, who still perceived Reagan in a better light 
than Carter. He/she either couldn't see or was 
unwilling tQ make the effort to see ·the ideas 
behind the image, the substance behind the 
silhouette. Perhaps this was the case with Mark -Rust. Who drd you vote for Mark? 

montgomery® 
will conduct 
interviews ·on this campus 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1980. 
Career 
positions in 
vertical 
transportation 
MARKETING/ MANAGEMENT 
will be discussed with degree candidates in 
BUSINESS 
ADMINISTRATION. 
For more 
information 
about 
Montgomery 
and our future 
visit to your 
campus, 
contact your 
placement 
office. 


montgomery® 
ELEVATORS!ESCALATORS POWER WALKS &RAMPS 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 

The Observer Thursday, November 13, 1980-pag~ 3 



Students prepare for 'Barna trip 
By David Sarphie StaffReporter 
As the highly toured match up between Notre Dame .and Alabama nears, marty Irish fans are preparing for the lon_g drive from South Bend to Btrming­ham. 
Approximately 500 students will be making the twelve hour trip, according to the Sports Information Office. The Athletic Department spokes­man noted that this is an unusually large number of students traveling such a distance for a game. 
Many of the students will be leaving late Thursday after­noon. "I'm blowin~ off pre­registration,'' said JUnior Pat O'Connor. When asked how long he thought the drive would be, he replied, "about 18 beers." _ 
O'Connor and five of his friends will be selling specially made t-shirts at an alumni party in the Birmingham Hilton Friday night. The shirts portray "Touchdown ) esus" standing over Alabama s tombstone. 
Gallery to exhibit oil paintings 
Gallery Aquinas, Inc. will feature the exhibit, "Faces." "Faces" will be a collection ofoil paintings by South Bend artist Katherine Robinson. Ms. Robin­son's works include a number of portraits, many bold and life­size, which stress not only in­dividual characters, but also the settings in which those characters are found. 
"Faces" will run from Nov. 14 through Dec. 7, with an opening reception to meet the artist from 7-10 p.m. on Friday, November 14. 
Gallery Aquinas, Inc. is located at 103 1/2 W. Monroe in South Bend, and is open to the public from noon until 5 p.m. on Saturda'ys' and Sundays. 
Some of the students making the trip have yet to acquire tickets for Saturday's game. Although some will be taking checkbooks along in hopes of finding reasonable scalpers, others are going just for the parties. "I don't have a ticket, and I don't know if I'll be able to get one," said Barry Tharp, ''But I plan to have a good time anyway.'' 
According to the AAA Chica~o Motor Club, motorists planmng to take the trip should take U.S. 31 south to Indiana­polis and transfer to 1-65. This will take them straight to 

Birmin~ham. 
Desptte the many parties which will envelope Crimson Tide Country on Friday night, Saturday's all-important game is of course the major attraction for the Irish invaders. One fan summed up the feelin~s of the journeyers when he satd, "I'm going to see the Crimson Tide get pushed out to sea. We're going to make Alabama sorry that Georgia Tech tried us last week." 
Heads for stars 

Voyager passes Saturn 
PASADENA, California (AP) Voyager I soared past Saturn's banded yellow cloudtops yes­terday, buzzed about a half­dozen cratered, frozen moons and shocked busy scientists with a bizarre "braided" ringlet within the planet's shin­ing rin~s. It then began a long, lonely Journey toward the stars. 
''The results have been just absolutely astounding,'' said Bradford Smith, head of the Voyager camera team. "We're seeing new things so remote from our experience that we're not able to come up with even a hint of a suggestion as to what some of them are.'' 
The fast-paced tour of Sat­urn's exotic realm climaxed an exploratory voyage of 38 months and 1.24 billion miles. Scientists will be analyzing and arguing for years to come over the hundreds of pictures and mountains of data. 

The robot spaceship made its closest approach to Saturn-­about 77,000 miles from the planet=-·at 3:46 p.m. PST, but audio signals announcing the sucessful passage needed an hour and 25 minutes to cover the 947 million miles from Saturn to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory here. 
Sailing beneath the famous rings, where Voyager already had revealed puzzling complex­ity, the ship found two narrow ringlets that almost appear entwined like crude braids and ''it bog~les the mind that that even extsts," Smith said. 
He said scientists could not 

explain the strange structure 
which was discovered in the 
narrow, outer ribbon, called the 
F ring. ' 
Voyager, reaching speeds of more than 56,500 mph, showed earthbound scientists complex motions within the softly colored clouds that are Saturn's only surface. As the planet grew before Voyager's cam­eras, the washed-out yellowish sphere. displayed ribbons and swirls, halos and spots where winds Jayed with the haze­covere atmosphere 
En route to its rendezvous with Saturn, a gas-filled ball big enough to hold 800 earths, the ship turned its cameras and instruments on some of the 15 Sarurnian moons. Except for giant titan, they seem to be made of what one scientist called "dirty ice. " 
Images showed details never seen before on the moon's icy surfaced: a long, deep canyon cutting across 500 miles of Tethys; a peaked hill surroun­ded by a huge crated S,('read over nearly a fourth of Mtmas; circular meteoric craters sur­rounded by bright rays on Dione; and the pocked, streaked and blotchy surface of Rhea. 
As Voyager sped away from Saturn, it also searched the region for any as yet undis­covered moons and probed the broad rings for clues to the size and composition ofthe particles that compose thell\· .,.. 
[continued on page 5] 
...united Limo, Inc. Travel United Limo To/From Chicago O'Hare Airport 

One Way F are ..... $22.00 
· Deliver to your airline at O'Hare Airport 
Round Trip .......... $39.00 O'Hare pick-up at Lower Level Carson Restaurant 
Save over 50% on Round Trip To and From O'Hare 
New Schedule: 
NOW LEAVING NO BUS SHELTER 6 TIMES A ·oAY 
1/Juu IIIIi' holtl /1'0111 Oil/ tiiTI\ ctf fllllt'/11 IIIIJt· 11/ l/1~•/1! l'h·aw mah rt'\l'rlaliun' !~ h•mr' in ;uhann· \'1. ahuul \pt·dalrharh·r rail·' 
CaD United Limo, Inc. (219)255-3068 
OFFICE,
PICK-UP 
I Bittersweet a McKinley, Big Bear Restaurant, Town a Country Center,POINTS:· Bus Shelter, Mlchlana Airport 







''TLa-------------~
~ . h . t t t

te ntg t exatement . . . 
1
I ; Do you think today's paper looks neat? I Do you hate today's paper I and want to change it? I 
I;H you answered yes to either of these questionsI I you too can be a . design assistant I \ Call John or Ryan at, 8661 1 



~--------------~ 
River City Records Welcomes an evening with 


HARRY CHAPIN 
Tuesday, December 9 • 8:00p.m. Morris Civic Auditroium • South Bend 
Tickets: $9.50/$8.50 Reserved Tickets on sale Wednesday, Nov. 12, at 
10:00 a.m. at River City Records, 50970 
U.S. 31 North, ONLY! 
Limit 10 tickets per person! Call 277-4242 for further information! 
River City Records & Jam Productions Present 
AN EVENING WITH 

Friday, November 14 • 8:00p.m. Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets: $9.00/$8.00 all seats reserved. Good seats still available at the ACC Box Office and River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North -3 miles north of campus 
~IINrllrll-1 
.DrUt!151 ~111~19~11(] n 
•u•;n:r• a Prlcesl 
more at the mans? 



$1.00 OFFI 
any u;~gular album or tape purchase with this coupon. 
.:!.•''' 
limit 1 per person. Expires • 1Nov. 30, 1980 

The Observer Thursday, November 13, 1980-page4 
------------------------------------------------------------~­
~ f,~~' 



Iraq attacks key positions 
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP) Iran's oil refining center, Abadan, came under renewed Iraqi artillery and air attacks yesterday, Tehran Radio reported. The Iranian news agency Pars also reported fighting among pro-Iraqi groups in Sanandaj, a Kurdish-populat­ed city in western Iran. 
A U.N. peace-seeking envoy to visit Iran and Iraq next week said his mission will to be gather information rather than conduct negotiations and will not include any discussion of the Amrican· hostages in Iran. 
The envoy, former Prime Minister Olof Palme of Sweden, leader of the Socialist Party there, said in Stockholm "there ar~ deep rooted differences between these nations and one can not expect rapid results." 
Palme said he would confer in New York with U.N. Secretary­General Kurt Waldheim later this week, then fly to Geneva, Switzerland on Sunday before heading for Tehran and then Baghdad. 
--------ZAHM HALL THANx·-------, 
----Chairman-Dave Karpick , ----Basement Coordinator -Chuck Milligan 
--­ -Section Leaders  - Jim Malkus  Jack Genovese  
Jarlie Gales  Marinate Marino  
Dan Holmes  Big Dan O'Connell  
Lefty Lethbridge  Mike Fell  

·---For Making the Zahm "Heroes and Villains" 1 Party ------~--The Best Party On Campus! _______ 


.. 
• 



t 
t 
tt 
t 
t t 
j 

In Iraq, Information Minister agency WAFA. Both the PLO Nazar Samurai said Palme "is and the non-aligned movement, welcome to visit Baghdad any which Cuba heads, have failed in 
time." He referred to a statement previous mediation efforts. 
Monday by Iraqi President Iraqi Vice Premier Terek Aziz Saddam Hussein welcoming left Moscow after a 24hour visit third party efforts to end the war, that produced no pledge offresh now in its eighth week. Soviet military aid, Iraqi sources 
Hussein has offered to with­said. draw all Iraqi forces from Iran as He delivered a message from soon as Tehran accepts Iraq's President Hussein to Soviet demands for a revision of the officials and held talks with existing .border treaty and Communist Party and Kremlin 
recognizes Iraqi sovereignty over officials. the Shatt al-Arab waterway. Kuwaiti newspapers had /said 
In,.New York, American U.N. Aziz would seek more arms from Ambassador William vanden the Soviet Union, a major Heuvel described the Palme supplier of weapons to Iraq.
mission as "a step in the right However, Soviet , President direction." Leonid I. Brezhnev has stressed Cuban Foreign Minister: · Moscow's neutrality in the war lsidoro Malmierca and Palestine and Iraqi sources in Moscow said Liberation Organization chief Aziz received no pledge of new Yasser Arafat met in Beirut, Soviet military aid. The sources Lebanon, to explore possibilities said the talks involved an ex­of a Iran-Iraq ceasefire, accord­change of views on how to end 
ing to the Palestinian news the war. 
• Pollution 
{continued from page 1] 

tion Agency is responsible for outdoor' air quality. The National Institute for Occupa­tional Safety and Health and the• Occupational Safety and Health Administration monitor air in industrial workplaces. But no­body has responsibility for air in homes, offices, vehicles (includ­ing school buses), retail stores, and other indoor environments where air pollution problems exist. 
The most serious problems so far have been reported in new and remodeled office buildings and homes with energy-saving features, and in mobile homes. Most involve formaldehyde in construction materials, such as particle board and indoor ply­wood, and in urea formaldehyde foam insulation. 

Other contaminants inc1iide nitrogen oxide and carbon monoxide, which have been found in the air of some offices and homes at higher concentra­tions than what is permissible by the Clean Air Act for the out­doors. 
Formaldehyde vapors leak in­to the air when the temperature rises and they combine with other contaminants into a mix that can cause headaches, respiratory irritations, watery eyes, skin irritations, nausea, diarrhea and heart problems. 

At the third of four hearings being held on indoor pollution by California's joint legislative audit committee's subcom­mittee on investigations, Priscilla Ouchida, of Sacramento, testified on Sep­tember 29 in San Francisco about the way her new home turned into a "si<>kening night-' mare. 
Her husband, an engineer, took care to include all possible energyconserving features in the house, including weather strip­ping, ceiling and wall insulation and double-glass windows. Window space was reduced and cabinet space expanded. 
"After the rug and cabinets were install~d my eyes started to sting and my ears to plug up when I was in the house," said 

Mrs. Ouchida. Others who were inside experienced similar symp­toms. 
Since the Ouchidas moved in last October, she said, she has been waking up with sore throats, dry skin, a cough and frequently with diarrhea. Each time the temperature rises the symptoms get worse. , 
"It's like being allergic to my house," said Mrs. Ouchida. 
When she heard about troubles others were having with formaldehyde vapors, she ar­ranged to have the air in her home tested. Formaldehyde was leaking from cabinets and floor­ing, which were constructed of particle board. 
"We really don't know what to do," she said. "We want to have children but we're afraid; we've heard of birth defects. And· we don't feel we, can sell because we'd have to tell the buyer what's wrong with it. Estimates for replacing the cabinets and flooring under the rugs have been $15,000-$25,000, and we have extended oilrselves already in buying the house." 
Other than appealing to the builder or suing him, the Ouchidas seem to have no re­course. No public agency has set standards for permissible levels of formaldehyde in homes. 
Many office workers who become chronically tired, ex­perience headaches, eye irrita­tion and respiratory problems have a similar dilemma. 
At first their complaints tend to be dismissed as imagined or caused by outside activities, said Dr. Molly Coye, chief of the occupational health clinic at San Francisco General Hospital. But even when indoor pollution within the office is shown to be the cause, "Often we wind up saying, 'yes, .YOU have a problem, you are not crazy, but we really cannot help you."' 
Minnesota, Colorado and Massachusetts are among states that have begun to take steps toward deali}lg with the problem by requiring cautionary labels on construction materials that contain formaldehyde resins. Minnesota also is one of the few states that provides testing ofair within homes when a physician suspects formaldehyde vapor might be damaging a resident's health. 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

The Observer · 

[continued from page 3] 
The shtp began its Saturnian tour late Tuesday, when it skimmed with uncanny ac­curacy pasy the giant moos Titan. 
After covering 1. 24 billion miles in a circuitous route to Saturn, Voyager came within about 12 mtles of the pre-deter· mined bulls-eye near Titan, said mission Spokesman AI Hibbs. 
A thick, smoggy haze denied 

Thursday, November 13, 1980-.page 5 

Reagan plans budget cuts 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Ad­visers to President-elect Ronald Reagan have drawn a list of possible government cutbacks totaling nearly six percent of the 1981 federal budget, a principal aide to Reagan disclosed yester­day. 
The areas where the cuts would be made were not dis­closed, althoug~ it was indicated that none would be made in the defense budget. 
Edwin Meese Ill, who is directing the Reagan transition into the White House, said a spending control task force drew up the list so that Reagan could fulfill a campaign pledge to cut the budget by 2 percent. 
Democrats on the House Budget Committee challenged Reagan to honor that promise by voting Tuesday to set a budget 
.... Voyager 

scientists a look at the never­"streaks and things ... are'nt seen surface of Titan. But, showing up very convincingly in nonetheless, they reported the raw images.'' relayed from 
hints ofstreaks an~ other vague Voyager to the Jet Propulsion details on the orangish clouds Laboratory.surrounding the moon. During the Titan encounter, 
Voyager's nine other instru­Voyager's radio signals were ments sent back a wealth of received at a tracking station in data after probi~g Titan's Spain, where thunderstorms atmosphere of natural gas, or scrambled five hours of data on methane. Sat~rday. Hibbs said the 
"We clearly are seeing some Madrid station was soaked by cloud structure," said David heavy rains again Tuesday Morrison of the Voyager pho­night but "all the daya was tography team. But he said the received and all is well." 
YOU KNOW THE ONLY THING WRONG WITH T!1E5£ ALL NIGHT WAR MOVIE FESTIVALS? 
IF W£. DON'T GET 
A BUDWE15£R SOON, WE'LL BE EMBAl-MED 

ALIVf! 

ceiling that would force the president-elect to cut spending by $17 billion, or about two percent, from the current budget drafted by the committee's staff. 
The committee action would reduce the budget from $648.7 billion to $631.7 billion and reduce the projected deficit from $38.4 billion to $25 billion. 
A budget reduction of six percent in 1981 would equal nearly $39 billion, enough to wipe out the entire deficit. 
One ofReagan's top campaign pledges was to trim federal spending by two percent by eliminating fraud, waste, abuse and mismanagement from the budget. 
Asked how the new president would accomplish that goal, Meese said a special task force already had targeted areas relat­ing to "specific tightening up. specific cutting ofadministrative overhead rather than cutting of 
whole programs. although .. some minor programs" may be eliminated altogether. "The list actually is much pwre_ than two percent. As a matter of fact, the list would probably account for nearly six percent of the budget," said Meese. Reagan will "sift and choose from among the recommendat­ions and then we'll announce what revisions he feels are necessary in the budget to ac­complish a two percent re­duction," he said. Meese did not identify any specific areas for cuts, although Reagan has said the defense budget would not be touched. 
Meese spoke with reporters before going to the White House for his first face-to-face meeting with his transition counterpart, 

Jack Watson, who is President Carter's chie{ ofstaff. Transition staffs representing Reagan and Carter are seeking to plan an orderly transfer of power on January 20, when Reagan is 
· inaugurated. Watson announced that Carter and Reagan will hold their first face-to-face meeting since the election next week at the White House when Reagan returns to Washington to take charge of his transition team. 
Watson alw disclosed that Rosalynn Carter and Nancy Reagan will meet next week, presumably for the next first lady to get a tour of the livin~ quarters. 

Sem;nar
II 


expects applications 
Applications for the Social Concerns Seminar in Washington, D.C. over Spring Break are due by 4:00 pm Friday, November 14th in the Center for Experiential Learning (1110 East, Memorial Library). 
YoU CAN SAY THAT P6AIN,IMUPTOMY 

IN ARIDITY! 
• 

The Observer Thursday, Noven1ber 13, 1980-page6 


Social Justice Courses 
[continued from pag; 7) 
449 Latin American Politics 2MW4 Francis The course combines a discussion of various theoretical approaches to the understanding of Latin American politics--modernization, coll;'or­atism dependency, bureaucratic-authoritarian­ism and political decay--with an examination of the conteml?orary political problems of selected Latin Amencan countries. 
474 Humanist Socialism and Neo-Marxism 10MW12 Dallmayr · An examination of 20th-century trends in socialist and Marxist thought in the West, with emphasis on the varying relation to humanism and democracy. Following a brief review of Marx's and Lenin's central arguments, the course focuses on such thinkers as Lukacs, Korsch, Gramsci, Adorno, Horkheimer, Mar­cuse, Sartre and Althusser. Some attention will also be given to proponents of Christian socialism and to the Christian-Marxist dialogue. 
558 Leadership 2IT4 Pomerleau 
This course examines various theories and 
applications of political leadership including ·case studies of leaders such .as Jefferson,­Gandhi, de Gaulle, Lenin, and Hidalgo and their relationship to political systems. 
560 Religions and Social Change 1 Tf3 Goulet The purpose of this seminar is twofold: 1( to inqurre theoretically into the issue, using materials from theology, political acience, sociology, anthropology, and economics; and 2) to illustrate, wtth case studies in specific· nations, the role played by Christianity, Islam, (cross-listed with Anthropology ~63) . This course represents a generalmt-roductlon to the Spanish-speaking people of the United States with maJor emphasis on those who reside in the Southwest. Htstorical and socio-cultural data will be provided in such a form as to encourage discussion of their implications. Every effon will be made to stimulate classroom discussion, and to compare the Spanish-speaking group with others in the nation. 

Buddhism,  and  Judaism  in  development  
processes.  
363 Chicanos  in  the United  States 9TI'll  
Samora  

417 Sociology of Urban Planning 1MWF Lamanna (cross-listed with Black Studies 417) This course is a basic introduction to urban sociology with an emphasis on its application to contemporary city planning practtce. It will include historical, demographic, and r;cological analysis of the origin, nature, and problems of modern urban communities. 
433 Juvenile Delinquency 1MWF Dodge Juvenile delinquency is a course designed to introduce the student to the many problematics involved in uncovering the nature, extent and characteristics of delinquency as well as scrutinizing the legal aspects of delinquency. Special attention is given also to the growth, con!inuity an~ compe!ing ideas embedded in vartous theones of dehnquency. 
BEAT 'BAM~~~

UNITE BEHIND THE IRISH IN THEIR DRIVE FOR THE NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP 
PEP RALLY -THURSDAY, 7:30 ABC-TV, 3 LOCAL T.V. STATIONS, AND THE SOUTH BEND TRIBUNE ~ WILL BE THERE-WILL YOU? ~ 





~ ~~-~ 

Whether it's business or pleasure, Avi's can get you 
going with a well-maintained car, great rates and SUP.er 
"We try harder" service. All cars come with a full tank 
of gasryou pay only for the gas you use. It's the only 
way to go-with Avis! Avis features GM cars like the 
Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme~ 

Mlchlana Regional Airport
234-1024 

• _ ..........c............ ~ ......,...... South Bend, IN 
L_--------------------------------~--------------~------------------­


Prof. Paul Davidson lectures on the topic "Will th; Results of the Presidential Election Make the US Energy-secure?" (Photo by Linda Shanahan) 
Air force plane crashes 
WASHINGTON (AP)-An Air Force transport plane crashed outside Cairo, Egypt, late last night, killing all six crewmen plus seven passengers, a Navy spokesman confirmed here. 
The plane, a C-141, was de­ployed as part of the first over­seas test of the United States' new Rapid Deployment Force. About 1 ,400 American Army troopers and airmen are taking part in the exercise with Egyptian military forces. 
Details of the accident were sketchy and the cause was not immediately determined. 
The plane, dispatched from McChord Air Force Base in Washington state, apparently crashed while attempting to land at the Cairo West Airport 20 miles from the Egyptian capital, Navy Lt. Michael E. McCagesaid. 
The names of the victims were withheld pending notification of next of kin. 
The training exercise, called "Bright Star," is designed to last about two weeks. Its main force is comprised of a battalion and supporting units from the Army's 101 Airborne Division based at Fort Campbell, Ky. 
The Rapid Deployment Force is designed to be dispatched rapidly in case of a crisis, specifically in the oilJrich Persian Gulf region. ' · • '"'
"J 

••• .Cartoons 
[continued from page 8] 
drawing straight political parodies, 
one of which appears on today's 
page. 

Pat Byrnes is another campus 
cartoonist ·of note. While most of 
his work is not ofa political nature, 
• .
1-----------~. I
need pnnt1ng 1 
I -I
1 in a hurry? 1 jlOO-llxl7 postei
I only$10.00 

I ~-.203N.Main
11 South Bend 


I . . 289-6977 I 1 
the wiz of_ the 1


L.e!~.!!!'.2.~~....1 
his cartoon (p. 8} definitely takes a stance on the greatest of all political issues, war. Part of Byrnes' not-so-subtle message here is that war is ugly. This cartoon accom­panied a column of Athony Walton's earlier this year, and is one of my favorites. Brendan McGuire is a freshman residing in Holy Cross Hall and his cartoon on page 8 is his second for The Observer. While Byrnes chose to deal with something as universal -and timeless as war, McGuire homed in on the plight ofbasketball­ticket-less freshman. While just about anyone anywhere can under­stand Bymes,.McGuire's work is attuned specifically to Notre Dame. Both, I think, are ~qually effective. 
Political cartoonists will continue to •raw as long as there is politics. And that will be a long time. Ifyou have any artistic ability and want to "get in the act" bring your work up to The Observer, I would be willing to take -a look. In the meantime, take a hint from the political car­toonists: When you consider politics, look for the funny side . 
--~ ---­

The Observer Thursday, November 13, 1980-page 7 

Chestertonians plan fiftieth


Social Justice Courses 
anniversary celibration 
Editors note: The following courses being offered for the spring semester of1981 deal with social justice. Other courses were listed in Tuesday's Observer. 
SOCIOLOGY 

213 The Unseen City (checkmarked) 2TI4 Sullivan (cross-listed with Theology 378 and Economics 226) This three-credit hour interdisciplinary course is cross-listed in the Departments of TheologyEcomoni~s, and Sociology-Anthropology. Ail students m the course m_!lst have participated in the URBAN PLUNGE. The course is a checkmarked course and the cards for the course will be dostributed from the Center for Experiencial Learning (1110 Mem. Library) duri~g pre-.registration. It will_ be taught by Patnck Sulhvan, C.S.C. (SOC) m collaboration with Don McNeill, C.S.C. (1HEO) and other resource persons. More information is available in the Urban Plunge LEARNING AGREEMENT and CEL (1110 Library). 
234 Criminal Justice 10TI12 Scott (cr?ss-listed_ with Bla~k Studies 234) Th1s cours_e m the mam focuses on law making, law breakmg and law enforcement. That is to say, it will examine the formulation of criminal laws, the application of such laws and their impacts for criminal laws, the ap_plication of such laws and their impacts for cnminals and non-criminals alike. Finally, the political and economic nature of the due process of law will be analyzed and studied causing a reformula­tion of the concept of criminal justice itself. 
254 Medical Sociology 10 MWF Carlton While this course is open to everyone, it does propose to serve as an introduction to the medical school experience. Throughout the semester emphasis will be placed on how laypers?~s an~ phusi~ians diffe~ in their models of med1cme, m their conceptions of medical institutions, and in their definitions of health and illness. 
314 Sociology of Business 1TI3 Scott (cross-listed with Black Studies 314) ptis course will cover (1) the structure of mdustry, (2) the structure of occu{>ations, (3) the ~tructur~ of the income di_stributlon, and (4) the mteracuon between busmess and society. 1He major focus will be the way business a~ects the structure and function of society and vice versa. 
332 Criminology llMWF Vasoli An intensive survey of crime data, theories of crime causatioo, criminal. behavior systems, criminal procedure, and corrections. Selected aspects of these areas within criminology will be covered in depth. 
'· 
AMERICAN STUDIES 

493 Power in American Society 10 MW12 Weigert This course is aimed at familiarizing students with social science perspectives on the struc­tures of power in our society. As such,. it is geared to enable students to see both the advantages and limitations of social acience theory, methods and findings in the area of societal power. There will be an wxamination of such issues as the changes in the distribution and execution of power (who has and who does not have power) and America in an internation­al perspective. 
GOVERNMENT 

151 Contemforary Political Issues An analysis o selected national and interna­tional political issues of the contemporary world. 
207 Comparative Government A study of the relative effectiveness of the institutions and _processes of selected m~jor governmental systems in Europe, Asia and Latin America. The important questions, rele­vant factors and contemporary issues facing each country are identified and analyzed. 
341 International Relations 9TI11 Loescher The course discusses the following themes in international relations: Sino-Soviet-U.S. nation­al policies and perceptions: war, nuclear strategy, and disarmament; dive)ppment and North-South relations; and world order issues. 
409 Law and Society 10MW12 O'Brien This course examines the 'interrelationship between law and society. The major questions adressed are: What is law and what is its fu~ction in society? How is law within the Umted States defined and how is our legal system organized? Does law promote or retard social change? 
414 Business and Regulation 2MW4 Tilles Students ~f regulation have noted with chagrin that Gabnel Kolko, a new left historian and George Stigler, a Cl)icago school econ~mist agree_t~at the views of b~g. business frequently pr~v~d 10 matters pertammg to regulation. If this 1s the case how do we account for the vociferous crusade against regulation~ For it is obvious that regulation hurts so~e heles others and is i~relevant to many. We will approach. the busmess-go':'ernment relationshif and th.e Issues of regulation as a problem o authonty. 
424 U.S. Foreign Policy 9TI11 Dowty The. course includes examination of the U.S. foreign policy-making process, a study of the developn:tent ofU.S. foreign policy in the Cold Wa_r p~nod, and a survey of current foreign pohcy Issues. 
452 Politics of Southern Africa 2TI4 Walshe (cross-listed with ~lack Studies 452) ~ ~tu~y of nattonal movements, political 10st1tut!ons and government policies in the Repub!Ic of ~outh Africa ar;td . neighboring cou~tn~s; racial tensiOns wuhm particular ~ermones; the confrontation between the md_epende~t states of tropical Africa and the white dominated south; Southern Africa in intt;rnation!il aff~irs, an? United States foreign pohcy. While the focus IS Southern Africa the
. . . . ,
co!-lrse raises maJor Issues 10 race relations, third world development and international relations. 
BUSINESS ECONOMICS 

346 Business and Society Analysis and evaluation of the cultural and social factors which shape the role of business in our society. Special emphasis is given to groups in society that influence business, soci_etal problems and changes significant to bus10ess and corporate social responsibility as revealed through case studies of local corpora­tions. (Also listed as Soc 305). 
356 Comparative Economic Systems Study of the ecomonic systems used to allocate resources in various countries. Attention is focused on capitalism, socialism and the mixed economies of Europe. 
RELIGIOUS STUDIES 

To examine in detail the teaching of the Chur~h .concerning social justice; to examine the b1~1Ical concept of social justice; to study the a1ms and purposes of various groups national, local and international concerned with social justice, peace or the aiteviation of hun~er; to test for oneself whether the Chnstian point of view is the most complete and satisfactory way to sustain justice. 
395 Christians and ) ustice An exa~i!lation of issues ~f justice in the light of Chnstlan social teachmg: _1) conflict; 2) resources; 3) power; 4) human nghts. The class meets nine umes and is built around several public lectures and films on the topic. 
' 
PSYCHOLOGY 

409 H Social Ecology An . exploration of contemporary social and environmental problems from a multidisciplin­ary perspective, and an examination of alterna­tive "solutions" to such problems. Problems addressed include nuclear energy and wastes· chemicalization of our air, land. water and food; o~r bigger is bette/thro~-away 'ethic; !ibuses .m the work-pl~ce; the technological Imperative; and abuses 10 our business media ~.nd P?liti~~l/ governme~tar sectors. Potential 
soluuons addressed 10 the course include alternative energy, agriculture and health s~rateg~es; intermediate(approp;iate technolo­gies; .~unple I self suffictent living strategies; and cmzen awareness and activism. 
[continued on page 6] 

The Chestertonians of Notre 
Dame, to commemorate the 
ftftieth anniversary of G.K. 
Chesterton's visit to Notre 
Dame, will hold a twcrday 
celebration this Friday and 
Saturday. Chesterton, 
philosopher, scholar, teacher 
and writer of detective fiction 
delivered a series of lectures at 
Notre Dame in the fall of 1930. 
The celebration will include a 
theatre impression of 
Chesterton, an Alec Guinness 
film of the detective fiction, 
lectures and exhibits of 
Chesterton's illustrations and 
works of literature and 
philosophy. 
The program will open Friday 
at 2 p.m. with a recollection of 
the visit by Rufus Rauch, 
emeritus professor of English. 
Rauch is chairman of the 
Chestertonians of Notre Dame. 
Other lectures, in the Memorial Library auditorium on Friday afternoon, will feature Ralph Mcinerny, on "Chester­ton: Peeping Thomist," and Frederick Crosson, speaking on "Father Brown and the Mystery 
Press to hold Molinelli 
book party 
Juniper Press will sponsor an Autograph Party with Michael Molinelli, author of Molarity: On the Road to Selling Out, this after­noon, 3-5 p.m. in the LaFortune 
Rathskeller. This is your chance to buy the collection of Molarity comics, as well as to meet the author. 
of Man." 
Frank). Sheed, publisher and 
founder of Sheed and Ward, 
publishers, will offer a dinner 
talk on "Chesterton in all 
Seasons," at the University Club. 
Tony van Bridge, actor with 
the Old Vic and the Stratford, 
Ontario, Shakespeare Festival, 
will present his production and 
performance of "An Evening 
with G.K.C." in the Library 
auditorium ;n 8:30 p.m. on 
Friday with a reception to follow 
in the faculty lounge. 
Sir Alec Guiness's film, "Father Brown-The Detective," based on Chesterton'~ fiction, will be shown on Saturday at 9 
a.m. in the auditorium of the Snite Museum. A discussion of Chesterton and Dickens critic­ism, presented by Lawrence J, Clipper, professor of English, Indiana University at South Bend will follow the film. The program will conclude with a reading by Rauch of Chester­ton's. poem, "Notre Dame: Causa Nostrae Laetitiae." 
An extensive exhibition of books by Hilaire Belloc, includ­ing many illustrations by Chesterton is on display in the Rare Books and Special Collections Department of the Library. In the adjoining room, Chesterton's books, first edi­tions and memorabilia, from the 
John Bennett Shaw collection are displayed. Shaw is honorary chairman of the Chestertonians of Notre Dame. 
All of the Library and Snite Museum events are open to the public without charge. The celebration is funded in part by a grant from the Indiana Com­mittee for the Humanities, and ccrsponsored by the Depart­ment of English and the Forever Learning Institute of South Bend. 


---------------------------------------------------------------~ 



Editorials 

Thur November 13 





torials cartoon sp 
Political cartoonists have been snaring more than their share of notoriety lately, not only because of the recent election, but also because of the general excellence of their work. JetT MacNelly (Pulitzer prize winner and recent subject of a Neii'SII'eek cover story), Pat Oliphant, and Garry Trudeau are three of the best known of today's cartoonists. Trudeau. also a Pulitzer prize winner, has been featured in The Obsenw for a number of years and his series Doonesbun· celebrated its ten-year anniversar-Y last month. Feminism, jogging. the excesses of liberalism and conservatism, TV and football are all fair game for Trudeau and his wit. His controversial strip was in the news lately when his pre-election series Reagan sBrain was dropped from the comic page and run on ,everal newspapers' orred or editor­ials page (some editors feeling that it was too vicious and politically­biased). Nevertheless it continues to be the second most popular cartoon strip in America. behind Peanll.ts, 
Trudeau is not the only c~ist to be accused of viciousness.i -Bdth MacNelly and Oliphar.t have been branded with the samt· charge. So vicious, that some rapers ha-.e dropped Oliphant from tlteir editorials 
·or perspective page and run his cartoons strictly on the orred page. Currently Oliphant is· carried by more papers than MacNelly, but MacNelly, several years Oliphant's junior, is gaining fast-Both men say their cartoons only reflect the issues and if they are vicious it is because the issues (and the men behind them) deserve it. The Obsen-er has carried Oliphant for two years and, like Doonesbury, we receive it through Universal Press Syndicate. The syndicate sends us Oliphant three times a week and we are allowed to run them at will. We receive Doones­burv about a week and a half in ad~ance. Each is dated and we are obligated to publish the right car­toon on the right day. If you have been watching closely you may have noticed that this is not always the case. 
Political cartoonists, of course, are no strangers to collegiate news­papers with Trudeaus's Doones­bury•·(which ran in Yale's daily in the late '60s) the most famous example. These early Doonesburys featured naked football players showering in the locker room and a few four-letter words which Trudeau had to eschew when his strip was picked by the syndicate after his graduation. Obsen•er car­toonist Michael Molinelli'sMolan·ry is comparable to the early Doones­burys in many ways. Molarity is_at its best when it lampoons campus life and the inhibitions and problems that go w~th it as early Doonesburys did. The quality of the dining hall's tood. the tenuous relationship be-· cween the sexes. and the immov­.1bility of the administration have all been fair game for Molinelli. Like Trudeau. many of his charac­ters are based on real people he -;ees around him. He even has a ..:ompilation of Molarities in book form appearing today. Like MacNelly, who also draws a daily >eries, Shoe, Molinelli has taken to 
[continued on page 6] 

Michael Onufrak 
---.... 


Pat Oliphant [above] and Brendan McGuire [rzght]. 






(above) and most recent (below) Doonesbur_y. 
' 


Garry Trudeau's first 
WELL, HER€.I .SIT ..qT COI.J£GE AA/Airt.MS l'fY NEl-l ROOI'f1'1ATE. Z lOJOW HELL 
8£ COOL, SINCE. l-IE'S 
COI1Pvr5R SQ.EerliDII 
0 

IJR.PAN,ItuoN-FOR5U~-IT f1&R IF '101/ CfJUI.{) WORI<S I..!I<& THIS: t:XPIAJN 70 ()(JfZ AD~ L/5TE3Nfi?S IAJIAT 8/JYS APILAPI­''6tNTRIFicA71CN" PATW H{)(}SCIN 
MEAN5.. A O&PRf3S5fj[) 
\ NEJGH80RHOOP.. 
I 
./ 

Yotl TtJSr FILL /IV A F'Oif/1, SEND IT IN, AND PllEST"o.' 
IDEAL /110011/'fA"M .' 0 
C> 

II& FIX£'3/T UP ANORt5a.L5/T TO A YOUNG, MIWI..E--aAS5caJP/.t. THIS 
£NCOURJi6tJ3(JTHt!<."6fl{flzy"70 BUY 
INTO THE NEIGHBORH(KJ[J, ANO 
8efOF& LONG, A FANTA5T7Gf?EAL 
E5TA"m MARK£{ Bf».15 U/H/3?& 
NON& !3XI57W 8ERJFE.! I 
.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle~e-It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported· as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion _of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the c~mmunity. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
HI THERE.' ff'r' NA/'1ES lflkE I>OONESBIJNY. ­z HAIL FR0/1 TIILSA, I OKLAHOI'fA ANP WOI'fEN ADORE l'tE! GI.AD TO 11EET 
rov. ­
ROONIE.' 
'\ 

OF COURS£3. 7H/3Y PENS TO THE I.W 7Hl35t PBYI£ 
ANfJ UIHAT HAP­51./Fe, fJJl3 tJO. 
MOVE ON 70 !JfVAti.JI3 

/NCoM& 78-IAN75 ARt VERY 
/A/HO AR& 015-IMPOI<TANT 
PLAC£0? f)()ts 70 lHE IIJHO!l3 
Af.IYON£3 C4!<e? 
\ 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief .......... Paul Mullaney Managing Editor . ............ Mark Rust Editorials Editor ......... Mike Onufrak Senior Copy Editor .. ....... Lynne Daley Executive News Editor .... Tom Jackman News Editor .............. Pam D~nan SMC Executive Editor .... Margie Brassil SMC News Editor . ........ Mary Leavitt 
Sports Editor .. .......... Beth Huffman Features Editor ........... Molly Woulfe Photo Editor .............. .John Macor 
'Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges Controller................... .Jim Rudd Advertising Manager .......... Mark Ellis Circulation Manager.... ... Beth Hackett Production Manager ..... ,ohn McGrath 


.r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~­

Features 
Thursday, November 13, 1980 -page 9 
Cou~try Rock Jam A new classic? 

They said "Let'sJam" and kept their word. Last week's Country Rock Jam proved that country's not all Nashville hick. Not being much ofa country fan, l still thought it was the best concert I've seen on this campus in two years. 
The word to describe the 8-hour concert is "variety." From the hot fiddle of Wisconsin's Radio Flyer to the acoustic rock set offormer Orleans mainstay John Hall, Country Jam offered a wide enough variety of high­quality musicians so that even if you hate WJVA (like l do) you loved the concert. 
The evening had a couple of bright spots. The highlight was defintely the appearence offiddler Vassar Clements. Clements is widely regarded as the best fiddle player in country, having played on literally hundreds ofalbums for the likes of The Allman Brothers, Bonnie Raitt, and the Band. Last week's performence made me believe it. He and his band had the crowd on its feet dancing throughout most of the 100­minute set with a mixture ofbluegrass, country, and rock. But the energy of the band was dim in comparison to Clements' fiddle. Keeping to his motto "Have fiddle, will jam!" Clements blasted away with a finesse well worthy ofhis reputation through his rendition of "Orange Blossom Special," "Rockytop," and a stunning version of "Jessica" which he wrote for The Allman Brothers' Dickie Betts. Clements is just a class act. 
The other bright spot was the return 

I realizedafterfinishin$_ it that last week's qmz was, first, very difficult, and second, putentially ambiguous. Needless to say, there were no winners on last week's qutz. Based uprm past experience, I would have been very surprisedifar1yone had won. However, ifyou think you know all ofthis week's answers, bring it to the Observer office by Monday, and -voila! -ten dollars could be coming your way. 
This week's quiz is very simple in theory. I am going to name an odd album title; you tell me who was responsible for it. 
1. 
You Broke My Hearl, So I Busted Your jaw 

2. 
A Nod's as Good as a Wink... to a Blind Horse 


3. Aoxomoxoa 

4. My People Were Fair and Had Sky in Their Hair... But Now They're Content to Wear Stars on Their Brows 
5. 
Get Yer Ya-Ya's Out! 

6. 
Whatever Happened to Benny Santim? 

7. 
The Pope Smokes Dope 

8. 
Velvet Gloves and Spit 

9. 
Ummagumma 

10. 
We're Only In It for the Money 



The answers to last week's quiz are as follows: (1) "My Love," "Venus," "I'm Sorry," and "Best of My Love"-two different songs with these titles hit number one; (2) Mary Wells, Kim Weston, Tammi Terrell, and Diana 
of former students Rich Prezioso and Kevin Quigley, who drove from San Fransisco with 5 guitars and a mandolin to make the date. For those of us who used to pack the Nazz when they were at ND, it was a special event. "The boys from California" were in style at ~ountry Jam, playing both original material and some choice selections from Hoyt Axton, Steve Forbert and Pure Prarie League. Except for some equipment problems, the two plus Claude "Nice People" Arthur put on a smooth show with their instrumental work complement­ing nicely their strong harmonies. Hopefully, they'll be back headlining someday. 
The only real problem with the show was the placement of the bands. The beginning ofthe show woke the crowd up. However, the placement of talented but laid back Hall's set in between local favorite Heartsfield and Vassar Clements slowed the show down just as the crowd got really hot. Having Hall play before Heartsfield would have better kept with the pace of the show. 
The only regret l have was small crowd. Everyone bitches about no social life and fails to take advantage of a quality event. Five bands and eight hours of music for four bucks! l just hope enough people catch on next year that CountryJam is a concert well worth supporting and that it doesn't die because of student apathy. 

John Higgins 
Ross all did duets with Marvin Gaye; 
(3) "Stairway to Heaven," "More Than a Woman," and "Pinball Wizard," in the versions mentioned, all received heavy AM airplay yet were never released to the public on 45 RPM; (4) Boston, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, St. Louis, and New Orleans are all mentioned in Chuck Berry's "Sweet Little Sixteen"; (5) The three Elton John songs referred to all end in the word "song"-"Bord.er Song," "Your Song," and "Love Song"; (6) "From A Wil).dow," "It's for You," and "Nobody I Know" were all written by Lennon and McCartney but never 

· released by the Beatles; (7) Phil Spector, Glyn Johns, and George Martin co-produced the Beatles' LP Let It Be; (8) "Subterranean Homesick Blues," "Trampled Under Foot," and "Space Oddity" all do not mention the title during the course of the song; (9) Dinah Shore ("Buttons and Bows"), Patti Page ("The Tennessee Waltz"), and Debby Boone ("You Light Up My Life") have the three biggest hits by female solo singers in chart history; and(lO) Bill Graham, BertKaempfert, and Jacksdn Browne were all born in Germany. 
Tim Neely 


The Empire Strikes Back 


London 

Symphony 

Orchestra 
Perhaps this is a rather late date 
for reviewing an album that made its 
appearance m May of 1980. I would 
venture to say this is early for a 
review of what comes close to being 
classical music. When you consider 
that reviews are still being written of 
Mazart sy!llphonies and Verdi op­
eras, a difference of a few months IS 
as nothing when compared to the 
centuries other works have survived. 
The Empire Strikes Back soundtrack 
is a remarkable blend of classical 
music ideas and the needs ofmodern 
film making. The music is so 
designed so its development para­
llels the action and character devel­
opment of the film. By tying the 
music with the film, ] ohn Williams 
has achieved a unique effect in the 
oft-repetetive medium ofthe cinema. His achievment in the Empire 'soundtrack goes beyond a mere 
welding of audio/visual impressions. 
Williams has composed some high 
caliber material worthy of being 
judged on its musical merits alone. 
Beginning with its opening track 
the Empire soundtrack is clearly 
more than a recapitulation of the 
Stars Wars motifs. These themes are 
present as Williams insists their · 
presence is necessary to enhance the 
thematic unity of the different films. 
The motifs are, however, subordi­
nated to the requirements of pre­
senting a completely different set of 
musical ideas that relate to a 
different serie·s of events. The open­
in_g track begins with a restatement 
of the original Star Wars theme: the 
blast of trumpets and other brass at 
the beginning of both films. From 
there however the similarity rapidly 
fades. The opening track digresses 
into a sinister pattern of staccato 
themes interspersed with heavy brass and percussion that underline the appearance of the evil Empire's forces. The lmpena/ March (track 1 side 2) is essentially the theme of Darth Vader: minion of the Imperial will and chief executor of the Emperor's plans. The March moves relentlessly forward, each repetition ofthe theme played an octave higher than the last. This piece, too, is played largely by the brass section of the orchestra with a mild percussion accompaniment. The theme is easily recognizable and immediately brings to mmd the hulking form of the Dark Lord. 
In direct contrast to the relentless, war-like quality of Vader's theme, Williams composed the deli~htful, sensuous Yoda's· Theme (stde 1, 
, track 2). Simplicity in a piece is a difficult thing to attain when writing music performed by a symphony orLhesstra. Williams, in testament to his skill as a composer, achieves this subtle simplicity with a melody that is lilting and melancholy yet joyful and rippling like laughter. Played with great sensitivity and tenderness by the London Symphony Orches­tra, Yoda 's Theme IS perhaps the most beautiful piece on the album. Its only rival might be the love theme associated with the affair between Princess Leia and the pirate Han Solo. Written in the tradition of romantic nineteenth century opera, the love theme is a sweeping, simple melody played by the full orchestra, evoking deep feelings of romance and adventure due to its setting in the unbounded grandeur of the stars. 
There is much in the Empire soundtrack suggestive of classical music. It must be noted however that since the music is tied to the action taking place on a screen, formal modes of classical composi­tion cannot be observed. That ts to say, williams could not have written a symph~my in its four lenghty sections stmJ?lY because a symphony has a thematic unity unique to Itself. This would make it difficult to use in something as varied as the Star Wars senes since films depend on flexible material. The music of the Empire makes excellent listening and the London Symphony Orchestra is flawless in its performance. 
Joseph Dolan 



-------~-------------------~--------------------. 
.Ihe-~==========================~========= 
T0 da~============T=h=u=r=sd=a=y=,=N=o=v=e=m=b=e=r=1=3='=1=9=8=0=-=p=a=g=e=l=O 
Campus 

• 3 p.m.-5 p.m. -auto-i 
graph party with michael, 
molinelli; author of molarity:\ 
on the road to selling out, 
Iafortune rathskeller, spon­sored by juniper press. 
• 5:30 p.m. -meeting: 

·"religion and labor in the· '80s", room 200, cce. 
• 
7 p.m. political forum: "what price the hos­tages?", 108 o'shag 

•7 
.p.m. -smc soph­omore speaker series: women and their careers, given by tony campbell, stapleton lounge. 

• 
7 p.m. -lecture: stan­lord prison experiment, smc rotary room. 

•7, 
10:15 p.m. -film: the deer hunter, engineering aud. 


• 
7:30 p.m. -german cinema: "young torless", library aud., $1 admission. ~-" 

• 
8 p.m. -poetry and fiction reading: dr. sonia gernes, the snite aud. spon­sored by nd dept. ofenglish. 

• 
8 p.m. -lecture: "the nature ofhuman behavior", prof. john searle, galvin au d. 

•8:15 
p.m. -fall con­cert: nd chorale, sacred heart church, reception follwing in crowley hall. 

• 
9 p.m. -the nazz: open stage. 



German club holds lecture 

Dr. Donald P. Kommers Professor of Law and Goverr;. ment and Director of the Center for Human Rights at Notre Dame, will speak Th~rs., Nov. 13, at 7:00 in the Library Lounge. He will give his analysis of the recent elections in Germany, in which in­cumbent Chancellor Helmut 
Schmidt maintained hold on his office by defeating challenger Franz Josef Strauss of the Christian Democrat Party. The talk is sponsored by the German club. Guests are invited to refreshments and a short general meeting following Dr. Kommers' lecture. 
, .. 
. " 
Molarity 



Peanuts 
ONE OF SNOOf'f{'5 BEA6LE SCOUT5 GOT tHROWN IN JAlL.. I HAVE TO 60 DOWN, 
AND GET ~Ef{ OUT... 

The· Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 

Ta:nczs 
1161 -1'181 
Gentlemen: 

The Franciscan Friars in Mishawaka invite you to spend a weekend {Nov. 21-23) with them to learn more about their way of living the tradition of St. 
Francis. 

For you reservation, contact Friar Richard or Friar William. 
St. Anthony Novitiate 1316 W. Drag6n Trail Mishawaka, IN 46544 (219) 255-2442 
JT JUST .SEEMS 
LJKE YOU DON'T HAVE AN, OPEN 
MIND ABOLJT 11411\165 

THAT STUPID 006 .LS MORE TROUBLE THAN HE'S WORT~! 
Ofi·GAMPUS S!UDIR!S 
CamJUI !eltJhone looks Will Be Available !o You Bovember 11, US, ~ 1' 9:00 am ~o ':00 pm S~uclen' lovernmen' Offices 
IDd lloor· Laronune 
• o•• aoox ••• sous• •
r. . . •
I .., 
~--------------------------------------~
ANYTHING GROWS N. IRONWOO~ ! 
FLORIST -campus delivery TOLL ROAD I House Plants Gifts, Corsages DIRECTLY : EAST of CAMPUS IHoUSE PLANTS l/4mi. N. of Douglas I 
GIFTS, TELEFLORIST 10% DISCOUNT ! 
WIRE FLOWERS PRESENT THIS 1 
COUPON J 

~----~~:a_~!~---------~~~~.12~J 
Michael Molinelli 
JIM, OFTEN PEOPLE WITH OPEN HINDS HAVE A TENPENt. Y To LET THING5 FALL OUT OF THEM 

SPEAK FOR YOURSELF' 
45 Barometer 13 Anti votes 
47 Where 18 Vacation "Nothing trips could be 21 Thomas­finer" Edison 
51 Charged 23 Dickens atoms villain 
52 Riverto 24 Doctrines the Atlan­25 "-were tic . the days ..." 
54 New Jersey 26 Artery 
borough 27 Pastures 55 Shaw 28 Theend 56 Held on to 29 Broadcast 57 Church part 30 Afternoon 58 Actor "operas" 
Romero 32 Crystal· 59 Norse poem ball users 35 Red sign DOWN 36 Tchaikovsky 1 Nervous ballet 
f
2 Aqua-38 Health 3 Bakery businesses worker 39 Thurmond 4 Constanti­41 Song's 
nople, once "Two-ton-" 5 Greet 42 Arranger 6 Box 44 Craze 7 Egyptiao. 45-monster 
cross 46 Chicago's 8 Plainon downtown the moon 47 Urban 9 Footlike dwellers 
part 48 Riled up 10 Reneeof 49 Big Apple's films "finest" 11 Poisonous 50 Thin Man's 
pigment dog 52 Indian
12 "Picnic"
playwright 53 Exist 
& I 
ACROSS 1 Roof 
ornaments (5 Rogue 10 Neatas­14 Pipeline 15 Wild 
buffalo 16 Charles­Gibson 17 American 
waterways 19 Wild bash 20 North sea 
port 21 Pisces' follower 22 Island off 
Scotland 23 Puts away 25 Rabindran­
ath­


28 Gambling 
city 31 Isis' son 32 "The Sweet­
heart of 
-Chi" 33-Grande 34 Spoken 35 Big trucks 36 Watery 
fluids 37 Mottand 
Pell,e.g. 38 Gertrude 39 Use a besom 40 Maine re­
sort city 42 Hot dog and newspaper 43 Moves bounclly 44 Sunrise 
•
' ­


·-·~ 

Belles own po~tive attitude 

By Deirdre Grant Sports Writer 

"Some teams come into State like a ball of fire,'' says Saint Mary's volleyball coach Erin Murphy. And this is the type of team she's hoping to take with her to Hanover College this weekend for the Division III State Tournament. 
''Though I an the coach, I can also be objective. We've seen every team that we could be up against and I really believe we have the talent and skill to be considered a top conender in our division. 
"Saint Mary's takes a 16-12-3 record to State. These numbers, according to Murphy, don't accurately indicate the strength of the team. A number of the losses occurred at the beginning of the season when confidence and a desire to win were lacking in the team members. 
Murphy is quick to point out that she has never doubted the . team's ability, but it took a while for the/iris to understand that they ha to step out on the court wuh confidence. 
The October tri-match against Notre Dame and Taylor is what opened up the team's eyes and even caused the eyes of Murphy to take a second approving glance at the team. The Belles entered the battle with a new spirited and aggressive attack. They walked away with hands down victories against both opponents. 
However, don't think that this winning team blossomed overnight. Rather, it has been the product of many afternoons of practice and an equally important factor called PMA-

Observer Sports Special-ND, SM C Volleyball 
Thursday, November 13, 1980-page 11 
Saint Mary's is going to 
concentrate on playing their 
game. 

And just what is the Belle's game plan? Murphy proudly states that she has a team full of skilled players. 
"If one girl is having an off day I don't hesitate going to the _ bench because there is a lot of der.th," explains Murphy. 
'Strategically, passing and serve receive will be the key. When the team performs well in these areas it seems that they are very hard to break. Of course, there will be plenty of PMA around." 
In conclusion, Murphy says, "Experience has been a great cure-all. Hopefully the ex­perience we have gained throughout the seasen will come through this weekend.'' 
Like a ball of f1re! 
Positive Mental Attitude. PMA 
is Murphy's recipe for the 
Belles. 

Earlier in the season Murphy commented thet the girls needed to develop self­confidehce. "We have worked on team confidence and a needed desire to win, which was a problem most of the year. "Now, says Murphy, "we don't have to worry too much about that." 
''The team has the skill to place in the top three. The key to our performance will be for us to play the Saint Mary's game of volleyball.'' 
Because there are no qual­ifying tournaments, the Belles will be up against an extreme range of teams. This is a worry to Murphy because many times a team attempts to adjust their strategy and style to the level of their opponents. Therefo~, 
AmongIrish squad 
Optimism aboundsfor state tournament 
By Mark Hannuksela 
Sports Writer 
Despite finishing the regular season with a disappointing 3-12 record, the Notre Dame women's volleyball team heads into this evening's opening round of the division II district tournament with a newly resur­r~ent wave of optimism. 
"We're very optimistic heading into the tournament,'' says senior co-captain Debbie 

'·­
-· 
' ! 
) 


Notre Dame's volleyball team wtll depend on a strong performancefrom Mishawaka native Maureen Morin. 
Romo. "Everyone is really psyched about 1t. We only have seven healthy bodies though, so that might be a problem.'' 
Coached by Sandy Vansla­ger, the Irish enter the tourna­ment as losers in their last two contests. Last week's final home match against Ti-State 
, was especially disappointing because the Insh lost the first two games of the match by very close 15-9 and 16-14 scores. Romo attributes that to a lack of experience. ''We have a very young team,'' says the native of Los Alamitos, Ca. ''That's really been our _(Jroblem all year--lack of expenence. We've been playing teams that have people on scholarship, or that have been playing varsiry ball for four or five years, and we're not able to match that exper­ience." "We do have talent on this team though,'' she continued, "there's no question about that. Sometimes though, we lack the intensiry and the 
consistency that other teams have. We can't afford that kind of play in the tournament, and if practice this week is any indication, I don't think we'll have to worry about that." 
''Throughout the season1 we have shown a tendency to sit back and play defense,'' said Romo, "and this is also some­thing that we can't afford in the tournament. When the front line hits ag_gresively, that helps the rest of us get going, so we're going to have to have that type of aggressive play this weekend if we hope to do well." 
This weekend's competition, which will be hosted by Man-
LineUps 
SMC  
Mary Dcmpser  Sophomore Hinsdale, IL  
Gcri Fiua;crald  Freshman  Palos Hilla, lL  
Loretto Haney  Frehman  Ashcft'lle, NC  

Maribeth HOlinski Junior Mi.shawaU, IN Ellen Hoyc Junior Mit.ha"'ah, IN Pe1 Pic:schcl Sophomo.-c Spri.,.r.eld MN Amy Terry Junior Sou1h 8c-lld,1 IN Marianne Viola Sophomore Plrkridac. lL Terry Wahcrs ~unM>r South Bend, IN Rosemary Whalen reshman TamJIII'FI;~\. 


chester College, will involve a number of area teams. The Irish seem to feel that Saint Francis College, and Saint Joseph's College of Renseleer, Ind. will be the major forces to ' be reckoned with at the tour­nament, which will open play this afternoon. 
· During the regular season, Notre Dame took part in the St. Francis Tournament, but did not meet the host college. They did, however, meet St. Jo­seph's during the season, suf­fering a 15-8, 15-6, 15-2 stra­ight set loss. Romo and her teammates hope that will be rurned around sometime in the next two days. 
ND 
Evic All~ Sophomore Rrnron, Wa Carol Com11o F~hm"" Lajollo, CA 
~J1 ~dr ~'::hm.n l?:~a~oc, IL 
C.rhy Foor.r Frnlunon Dumont NJ J.,.. Healey Ftnlunon Pott Rid_;;, 1L Carol Homme Frutunan Ponaac~ 
Kathy Lcw Scruor Milwoudcc WI 
it~~n·lc~~ ~=~!t· IN 
Debbie Romo Senior Los Al...U 'CA Jon Yuraeolirio ~l'f"Yt: _ Piuofurd, j.Jy 
Local players tnake their mark 
by Margaret Greene Sports Writer 

Just as Cincinatti Moeller breeds talented football players, so South Bend high schools have become training grounds for volleyball competitors. Samples of the gifted lot may be observed on area campus courts. · 
· Hailing from Mishawaka's Marian High School, Maureen Morin is one of the latest additions to the Notre Dame women's volleyball team. On neighboring Saint Mary's team, four local girls are also making their mark. Ellen Hoye (Penn high School), Mary Beth Hosinski (Marian), Amy Terry (South Bend Adams), and Terri Walters (St. Joseph's), lead the list of starters of the Belle squad. 
Notre Dame coach Sandy Vanslager is also a South_Bend native, graduating from W:ashing­ton High School. She is pleased w1th the performance of her Mishawaka player, Morin a freshman starter who she says helps keep the team on its feet. 
"Maureen is an inspiration from the minute she steps on the court. Her play is consistent, and she picks the girls up when things get slow." 
Off the court, Maure~ is adjusting -to rigid 
first year of studies curriculum but has her 
sights set on a science major. She also has 
great plans for the them. 
"We're ready for tournament play. Injuries 
have kept us down, but things should come 
together this weekend.'' 
On the other side of the street, four area 
juniors lead a youthful Belle squad. Spokes­
women Mary Beth Hosinski and Ellen H(Jye 
laud the efforts of their fellow "townies" and 
the team as a whole. 
"We've already beaten most of the teams 
we'll be facing. Our biggest plus is our skill at 
keeping composure on the court." 
According to Coach Erin Murphy, the four local players are the motivators for her crew. ''The team is very spirited and these four . work especially well together to build stabil­ity." 
After matches, the St. Mary's athletes head 
off to face a varied assortment of academic 
pursuits. Ellen and M~beth concentrate on 
business, while Amy foUows education, and 
Terri examines biology. • 
Weekend tournament action will be rigid for 
both squads, but fans should look to these 
South Bend girls to generate solid and skillful 
play. 

. 
--~---~~-~ ~---~----~----­
The Observer Thursday, November 13, 1980-page 12 
\ ... X-Country 

[continued from page 16] 
finish well as a team. That strategy will be altered slightly for the race this weekend. 
"The team realizes that they probably won:t be qualifying, though we know it isn't out of the question. But they still have an excellent attitude. There are team~. that we can and should beat and this is what we are shooting for. 
"It's a great meet w(th great teams and everyone is excited about running 'with that sort of competition. In addition they want to have a good showing that will give them some confidence for the indoor season. They have seen how much they have im­

proved over the season and now 
they can test theirselves with the 
best." 

"We've decided to split the team 
into two sections. The first will 
be Chuck Aragon, John Filosa, 
and Ralph Caron. These are the 
guys that have the best chance to 
make the final cut and I want 
them to push each other," ex­
plains Piane. 

Aragon and Filosa are the 
senior co-captains, while Caron 
is just a freshman. 

The other four runners on the ·seven-man Irish roster are senior 
John Riely, sophmores Tim 
Bartrand and Carl Bicicchi and 
freshman Andy Dillon. 
"We've altered our training schedule a little to prepare for this weekend. We have been concentrating more on speed work and cut down on our total distance for the purpose of resting. We've also concentrated on hitting specific mile times for the two groups. 
Hockey tix to go on sale 
All Notre Dame-St. Mary's students who still wish to buy

Charity games start men'S, 
season hockey tickets may do so 
by applying at the ticket office on 
the second floor of the ACC.

women'S basketball seasons 
Senior Chuck Aragon hopes to lead the Irish to a qualify­ing berth in next week's NCAA national cross country championships. Qualzfying round is this Saturday at Champagne, Illinois. 
~..~..~~~~~~~~·~..~..~---a 
Juniper Press announces 
MOLARITY 

ON THE ROAD TO SELLING OUT 
A selection of Michael Molinelli's best cartoons from 1977-1979: 
A COLLECTOR'S ITEM Get your copy today! Available at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Bookstores 
04..KM..~--~~~~..~-.H~~·~..04..~ 

THE MUSIC BOX 120 W. Mishawaka Av~. Mish., IN (256-5440) 


Lots to see at the best new club in town, with the best entertainm~nt around: 
Nov. 12  Free Spirit  
Nov. 13  Jeff Lorberfusion  
with Free Spirit  
Nov. 14 ­ New Grass Revival  
with  
Pink&the Naturals  

by Skip Desjardin 
Sports Writer 
Both Fighting Irish basket­ball teams will get a taste of game action for the first time this season when they take to the ACC court this Sunday night. It wonYt be real game action, but it'll be the next best thin~, as the annual intrasquad chanty games take place. 
Coach Mary DiStanislao will be showing off her ''new look'' women's squad beginning at 
7:00 p.m., and Digger Phelps will preview his 1980-81 team in the second game of the double-header. The men's game is scheduled to start at approximately 8:30 p.m. 
Tickets for the charity game are $1.00 for adults and fifty cents for children under 16. All Notre Dame St. Mary's stu­dents who present astudent ID will also be admitted for fifty cents. Tickets are on sale all this week at the gate ten office at the ACC, and will available at the door. As has been the case. in the past, all proceeds from the games will benefit the Special Olympics and the Neighborhood Study Help Pro­gram. 
Phelps has said all week thar his players are looking forward to the game. "We've . be<;n covering a lot of matenal m practice, and it is important that the players get a chance to put it all to use in a game
. . ,,
situation. 
The men's team will be split into two squads. The Gold team will consist of the pro­bable starting line-up for _the opening of the season. Semors Orlando Woolridge and Kelly Tripuka will open at the for­ward spots, with 6 foot 11 inch freshman Joe Kleine in the center spot. Tracy Jackson will move to the guard position this year, teaming up with. sopho­more John Paxson m the backcourt. · 
That means the Blue team 
will have Gilbert Salinas at 
center. Bill Varner and Cecil 
Rucker will complete the front­
court. Freshman tom luby and 
Barry Spencer are the swing­
men playing either forward or 
guard, and Stan Wilcox will 
start as the other Blue team 
guard. W alk-ons Ke_vin Haw­
kins and Marc Kelly complete 
the 1980-81 roster. 
''The freshmen are dying to 
play," says Phelps. "We've 
got to open with the Poland 
game next week, and then 
head out to California to play 
UCLA. We've got to start 
getting serious about the way 
we play." 

Center Tim Andree and guard Mike Mitchell are still nursing injuries, and "o/ill not see action Sunday night. And­ree may return in another week to ten days, but Mitchell is still several weeks from practicing. 
[continued on page14] 
[continued from page 16] 
against," says Lucia, a native of Madison. 
Lucia, enrolled in Notre Dame's College of Engineering, grew up watching Badger hockey. 
"This,may sound obvious," he says, "but it is like a dream come true to go back to the Dane Coliseum and play against Wisconsin instead of spectat­ing." 
Lucia has played in half of Notre Dame's games this year. Classmate Mark Doman, a native of St. Cloud, Minn., played right wing on the third line last week against Minnesota. 
"Dave was a very pleasant surprise last year as a walk-on," said Irish coach Lefty Smith. "He is a very dedicated player-he always hustles-and we feel he can make quite a contribution to our program over the next few years." 
Three season ticket plans­Friday night ofa series, Saturday nights or all games-remain available at the discount price of $2 per game. , Ticket manager Mike Busick also says many students have yet 
to pick up their hockey season 
tickets they ordered over the 
summer. 
.. . Hockey 
Lucia teamed with two of Badger coach Bob Johnson's sons-Pete, a current player for Wisconsin and Mark, an Olympian last year and now with the NHL's Pittsbu ·gh Penguins -while attending Madison Memocial High Sc!Jc Jl. Pete, in fact, was the cente for Dave's line while he was a ~ophomore. 
Humphreys, on the other hand, competed against the Johnson brothers while playing for Premontre High Sc\ool in Green Bay. 
"It's nice playing at a place where you get to see family and friends," says Humphrey,;. 
"We are looking for big th ngs this year from Kevin," says Smith. "He is a superb skater a 1d forechecker and we hope for him to share the goal-scoring 
. burden." Humphreys currently"' ·ranks sixth among Irish scorers with seven points after scoring two goals last weekend against Minnesota. 

\ 


---------------------------..,--------------~---­
The Observer 
Thursday, November 13, 1980-page 13 

ND -Barna ... What's at stake? 
Coming to you live, from Birmingham, Alabama, the college football game ofthe century! 
What? 
Ok, ok, the decade then. 
No? 
How about the year? 
The week? 
Alright, alright ... I give up. This ain't no big game after all. Ofcourse, it coulda been a whopper if Bear hadn't choked against Mississippi State and the Irish hadn't wasted three hours in Atlanta. But now, with Alabama wallowing at number five ~nd Notre Dame on their heels at number six, what could be the possible significance of this game? 
How about a trip to New Orleans? 
How about a national championship? 
How about a couple million dollars? 
Ah ... can't you just see some eyes under the Dome light up on that last one. A win on Saturday would mean all of that for Notre Dame and much, much more besides.'' 
Like bragging rights, for one thing. The people down in A lab a rna (they call it the football capital of the sotlth) have turned this game into a grudge match simply because they've never been able to beat Notre Dame. Down in Tuscaloosa, the campus bookstore is pushing shirts and stickers that proclaim Alabama's dominance over theIrish. 
Or supposed dominance. After'all, a team which has three losses in three games against Notre Dame shouldn't be shootin' its mouth off about 
being the better team. But there's more. The other day I heard a story· 
about an Alabama football player who had tears in . and assume they'll dry their tears and climb down 
his eyes because he and his teammates were ashamed of the Tide's pitiful record against Notre Dame. 
"We wanna win this one for Coach Bryant," the player wailed. "He deserves it." 
Turn it off already! Bear Bryant's record at Alabama is 21 3-39-8 after 22Yz seasons. The old codger has gotten more than he deserves. And I from their soapboxes sometimes before Saturday's kickoff. Even so, I'm going with the Irish in this one because I think they're just as talented, just as experienced and much better prepared. Besides, if all else fails, remember the last line of The Little Blue Nun: 
"Alabama just had football players, 
But they called in You-Know-Who." 

Frank LaGrotta 

don't want to hear about how many national championships he's been cheated out of either. With some of the schedules Alabama has played the last few years, Bear is lucky the voters haven't done more than just make him third or fourth. He's lucky they haven't laughed in his face. 
However, to depart from this silly palaver and get to the matter at hand, the Irish and the Tide have a game to ·play on Saturday. Regardless of rankings and records (not The Little Blue Nun) it should be a very good football game to watch and a very tough football game to play in. And once it starts, none of this pregame dribble will mean a damn thing. 
And I think Notre Dame is going to win this football game. Why? 
Primarily because I think Alabama is too concerned with vindicating their past record and winning one for the Bear to realize that the Notre Dame players they will face on Saturday could care less about Sugar Bowls and Orange Bowls that took place when most of them were in grade 
school. It's sometimes refered to as being "over­psyched" or "psyched-out" and it's a problem that may beat Alabama before the Irish even get a 
chance. 

But I'll give Bear's boys the benefit of the doubt 
THE LITTLE BLUE NUN REPLIES 
The ,Alabama rooters say the football polls were wrong , 4, Why, they're so up$.et about it, they're. ,lamenting it in song. 
iliiL~r' They thought that they .were "number one" and could not be· 
,.l;littracked; · . ·!· F··1ow they're sad and disiilusioned, and they say "the deck was. }\···.. stacked." 
'~": ~.. 

Whey they tell tis even "Woody" says, "The Tide is ffi first place."-/ (And you ~now to question Woody gets a fist right in your face!)' 
And when it came to VQting, why they have the "inside dope." ·.' conspiracy of clerics': all influenced by the Pope! 
\ . 

And they go even further "Oh Yes"-they really do. They 'talk of "voters counting beads" and "a little nun in blue." . 
We admit that we have "Heavens," a "Devine" coach we call 
"Dan/' ~ 
And when it comes to miracles, Montana is our man! 
But to answer their objection there's a very simple test: The team that should be ''number one" is the team that bests the best 
When the "Irish" mangled Texas, how can anyone debate That Alabama -should be ."Tops" by beating "number eight?" 
Yes, we know they're disappointed, but there's n< 1thing we can do, "Cause no matter how you look at it, they still are number two.!" 
So we give them our condolences, and end this little "rhyme" By extending them "Best Wishes" ... And "Better luck next time!" 
' 

C~pies of''The Little Blue Nun" and:.'The Little Blue Nun Replies" may be obtarnedfrom The Big Brother.r/Big Sisfl>rs ofSt. Joseph County, Irn:, 1011 E. M'llit'son Street, South Bend, Indiana 46617, (219) 232-9958. 
JUST OPENE~ . 
~ 11

525 N. Edd St. -.
y -.· , .. ' . 
DELL'S 
-~ ,~~~·1!77 •~-· Carry Out BAR-B-QUE 
Irish hopes rest UJith Paxson 
With UCLA a little more than two weeks away, Notre Dame basketball practice still has its lighter moments. To be sure, Digger Phelps barks about the Bruins at least two or three times during each session, but things are a little more relaxed. 
A handful of spectators watch as Phelps trades 
insults with a friend in the padded seats or Kelly 
Tripuc;ka adds his own bass solo to the music 
blaring from the tape deck during stretching 
exercises. Ifthings get too quiet, someone is quick 
to take a playful dig at one of the four freshmen on 
the squad. 
When the coaching staff begins to put the team through a variety ofdifferent drills-a multitude of offensiye and defensive sequences-things settle down a bit. 
And the people sitting in the padded seats sit back, staring idly toward the floor. Every once in a while, someone will comment on new assistant coach Pete Gillen, whose intensity during practice has to he seen to be believed. 
They talk about this being the year for Notre. Dame. If Digger Phelps can't bring home that elusive national championship this March, maybe he never will. After all, it's the last hurrah for seniors Tripucka, Orlando Woolridge, Tracy Jackson, Gilbert Salinas and Stan Wilcox. 
Their eyes are focused on Tripucka, muscling inside for a three-point play, or Woolridge, effortlessly sweeping the glass clear, orJackson, a portrait of intensity even during the rigors of practice. 
Maybe the attention will turn to the freshmen. CanJoe Kleine really do the job at center? Doesn't Tom Sluby remind you of Adrian Dantley? Cecil Rucker and Barry Spencer look pretty sharp, do you thir>k they'll play much? 
Hey, doesn't Billy Varner look good this year? I thought he was going to transfer. How about Tim Andree and Mike Mitchell, how soon will they be able to play? 
But if they sit there long enough, something else will occur to them. And all of a sudden, they'll realize that Notre Dame's chances for a national 
Craig 
Chval 


champipnship  , don't  hinge  on  Tripucka,  
Woolridge, or Jackson.  
They  don't  hinge  on  what  color  carnation  

Phelps wears when the Irish play Indiana, or if the Dancing Irish perforrp on any national TV games. N<?tre Dame's hopes for an outstanding season 
rest with John Paxson. 

This is not out of necessity, you must understand. Digger Phelps is far too wise to just throw the burden of an entire season on the shoulders of a sophomore. 
No, this is John Paxson's own doing. He finds himself in this predicament because he is so talented. 
The onlookers at Phelps' practice session rarely rave about Paxson. They'll sit back in their seats until a backdoor layup by Jackson or a fastbreak dunk by Woolridge captures their attention. 
The passes Paxson completes to get them the ball rarely capture anyone's notice. 
Which is all well and good. Phelps has his stars he has his thoroughbreds and he has his aircraf~ carriers. And all together, they wouldn't be worth a lump of coal without John Paxson. 
Every so often, a former player drops by. Even less frequently, a writer from a national magazine pays a visit to research a preseason preview. But they all say the same thing-John Paxson does it 
all. 

Make no mistake about it, Kelly Tripucka, Orlando Woolridge and Tracy Jackson are AI McGuire's thoroughbreds. But in McGuire's vernacular, Paxson is the head without which the 
body dies. · Just how welt the seniors do will be a function of how well and how often Paxsongets them the ball. And as far as those three are concerned, all that means is you ain't seen nothing yet! 
• Ribs • 
• Rib Tips • Sausage 
Open Wed.-Sun. Noon til 8:30 3 Blocks Down from Corby's 
.•· . . . . • • • •
BLATZ QUARTS $7.69 • 
• 
e Case PABST BLUE RIBBON $6.69 
• 

• 
24-12 oz. cans 
• 

DeKUYPER PEPPERMINT $4.81 
•

SCHNAPPS 1 Liter
• 
•

KAMCHATKA VODKA $8.99
• 
~.75 Liter 
•• 

RIUNITE LAMBRUSCO $2.59 
• 
750 mi.
• 
•

LANCERS VIN' ROSE $3.99
• 
•

• \.o~;:~;tEAtQ~ARI!.f • 
2128 South Bend Ave. (277-3611) (prices good while supply lasts) 
r~-­
, _T_h_e_O_h_~__rv_e_r_____________________________________________T_h_u_r_s_d~ay~,_N__ovember13, 1980--page14 
...Toran 


ment. "The team's going into this game with unbelievable concentration." 
All the makings of yet another thrilling experience exist for the freshman sensation who's had more than his share for one year. 
.. .Hoops 
[continued from page 12] 
The game will be the ftrst opportunity for Irish fans to see a women's basketball team that will make the jump from Division III to Division I play under their new program and ftrst year coach Mary DiStanis­lo. 
"I've been pleased with our progress so far this fall, at least for the most part,'' says DiStanislo. "Some days we look really good, and other days we're a little off. This is a young team, and they need some gane experience to work out some of those problems.'' 
1Thefreshmen are d_ying to pla_y' 
Injuries have left some holes 
in the Irish line-up~ and Coach 
DiStanislao has not yet decided 
just how she will split the team 
for the intrasquad contest. She 
does note that, once the divi­
sion is made, there will be no 
switching from team to team. 
The squads will remain the 
same throughout. 
"We open the regular sea­. son on November 22 in the 
ACC against South Dakota. 
This game will give us a 
chance to see where we need 
the most work. That way, we 
can concentrate on those areas 
before the South Dakota game 
arrives," she says. 
Both DiStanislao and Phelps 
point out that the/arne is for a 
good cause, an -at a good 
price, and they are hoping for a 
lot of fan support. Glossy 
photos of the men's team will 
be given to all in attendance, 
and an autograph session will 
follow the games. 
"We've been able to raise 
quite a bit of money i~L the 
past,'' says Phelps. 'l-iThe" 
game is valuable to us-as a 
team, we have a good time, the 
fans enjoy themselves, and 
we're helping the kids of the 
Special Olympics and the 
Neighborhood Study Help Pro­
gram. How can you beat 
chat?" 
How can you? 

[continued from page 16] 
for four broken-up passes. His biggest play to date came just last weekend in Atlanta, where he intercepted a Georgia Tech strike in the fourth quarter to set up Harry Oliver's field goal that enabled the Irish to tt.main unbeaten. 
"I guess you could say I was at the right place at the right time," smiles the Grace Hall resident. 
Toran seems to be doing a lot of things right lately, none of which have gone unnoticed by. his coaches. 
"Stacey just kt;eps getting better and better each week," notes Johnson. "He still has things to learn, but he has all the tools." 
Johnson and the rest of Dan Devine's staff hope to see 
-Toran's potential evidenced this weekend against Alabama. Saturday's contest has been billed as the game that will determine who plays for the national championship. And if that isn't reason enough for enthusiasm, the nation's inter­sectional bragging rights that are at stake provide great incentive as well. 
"It's my first big rivalry at Notr_e Dame," the intended business major says with excite-
Friends wish you luck on a bigexam.Gooil friends stick aroundto seehowyou did. 

I 

They say they were just hanging around killing time and by the way, "How did you do?" You teU them a celebration is in order and that you're buying the beer. "Look," one of them says, "If you did that weU, buy us something special." Tonight, let it be LOwenbrau. 

by The Ohn'rt't'r .tnd The As.rorraled Prnr 
Dr. Tom Kellv and the interhall office are looking for students to referee the upcoming interhall basketball season. This is a paid position and interested students are asked to call 6100 as soon as possible. Officiating clinics will begin shortly. 
The interhall six-mile run will be. 
held on Saturday, November 15 at 10 a.m. The course will be entirely on the Notre Dame campus utilizing the golfcourse, lake trails and campus roads. Notre Dame undergraduates, graduates, faculty and staff may enter. Separate divisions for men and women in each category (undergraduate, graduate, faculty, and staff) will be set up. If you wish to run, you must come to the interhall office (C-2) in the ACC to complete insurance and entry forms before Wednesday, November 12. 
Student basketball tickets may be picked 
up at the second floor ticket window ofthe ACC from 8:30a.m. 
until4:30 p.m. according to the following schedule: Freshmen, 
today, Nov. 13. From Friday, Nov. 14 until Wednesday, Nov. 
19 students who are not able to pick up tickets on scheduled 
days may get their tickets. Any tickets unclaimed by Nov. 19 
will be forfeited by the student and a refund rendered. There 
will be a limit offour IDs per pickup. 'Because ofa high demand 
for tickets this year some juniors have been lotteried to the 
bleacher section. A list of juniors with bleacher seats was 
published in The Observer on Nov. 7. Any student interested in 
purchasing tickets for the Nov. 20 game with the Polish 
National Team may do so at the Gate 10 box office from Nov. 
10 toNov. 14. On Nov. 17 unpurchased student tickets for that 
game will go on sale to the general public. 
Men's basketball captains for both A and 
B interhall divisions are requirec;l to attend a meeting Tuesday, 
Nov. 18 at 4:30p.m. in the ACC Auditorium. 
Schedules 
19110-111 NOTRE DAME WRESTLING SCHEDULE Nov.14-15 at Spartan lnvHatlonal (Michigan Slate) Dec.3 VALPARAISO 5'6 at Indiana State Invitational 10 INDIANA 27-28 at Midlands Tournament (Northweatern) Jan. 3 at Northwestern, Marquette, Minnesota 9-10 at VIrginia Duals (Hampton, Va., Coliseum) 14 SOUTHERN ILLINOIS, INDIANA STATE 17 at Millikin, Wabash and 
Lincoln J.C. 24 JOHN CARROLL 31 at National Catholic 
Invitational Tournament (University of SCranton) 
Feb. 3 at Western Michigan 13-14 at Wheaton Invitational 16 PURDUE 21 at Drake 27-28 at NCAA Western Regional 
(Indiana State) Mar.12-14 at NCAA Championship ·(Princeton) 
.. 

RAQUETBALL 
Men'a Singles Pairings 
Rademaker (3676) v. Mulligl!ll-.(3339) Minondo (6741) v. Moeller (8667) Shank (871BJ v. McFeeters (227·7669) Beutter (1802) v. Butler (1210) Burton (1763) v. Regas (8376) Greason (3001) v. Guilfoyle (3553) Pierce (1424) v. Dohopolski (301B) Johnston (8637) v. Cordova (1247) Freedman (232-0973) v. Brown (3264) 
Men's Grad-Faculty 
Croke (234-2880) v. Kulpa (B55B) Labinger (6216) v. Hahn (277-2518) Davidson (2B3·1986) v. Staron (266·4213) 

------~-----­

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
Thursday, November 13, 1980-page 16 
lbr Stacey Toran 

Greatest thrill.found at ND 
thought I probably had a better of Indiana's high school basket­by Kelly Sullivan chance of playing for Purdue or ball tournament, where his team Women's Sports Bditor IU, but I wanted to go to a place captured the championship. where I had to work harder and "That was a once in a lifetime 
The thrills that have been push myself more. I was really shot in the state tourney," says bestowed on freshman Stacey excited about? coming here, Toran. "I thought that was going Toran in the past year have made because everyone told me Notre to be the biggest thrill of my him the envy ofmany sports fans. name was the place to be," he life." 
Last fall, after completing a recalls. But he was wrong. The lanky fabulous senior season as captain It was only one on a long list of speedster has e;Xperienced an of his Indianapolis Broad Ripple athletic ·thrills that have come even greater thrill this fall as one football team, the prep All­Toran's way in the last 12 of only three freshman starters -American was hounded by the months. on the Irish roster. Due to likes of Purdue, Indiana, After the gridiron campaign, injuries which plagued the Notre Tennessee, and Notre Dame. A the talented athlete turned his Dame secondary this season, two-way starter for three years at attentions to his second love, Toran nailed down a slot at 
. wide receiver and defensive basketball, captaining that sport cornerback and first stepped into back, Toran enthusiastically his senior season as well. Enter a the line-up as a starter against signed with Notre Dame, a place new high point in this player's Michigan State. seemingly de~igned with this impressive career. "I was so nervous I don't even Hoosier in mind. Just seven months ago, Toran remember feeling any emotion," 
"I wanted to stay instate rather sank a miraculous 57-foot sho.t at he explains. "But after the game, than go too far from home," the final gun of the semi-finals to it sort of hit me. I realized that I explains the Indiana native. "I push his team into the title game had actually started, and that we had won, and it made me feel pretty good, because starting was something I had never expect-
d .. 

e . 
-Irish secondary coach Jim/ Johnson understands how Toran felt. "To be honest, you never expect afreshman to step in and fill a need, but he showed us he was a very aggressive player." 
Toran says there's no secret to his success. "It's really been easy for me this season because this team is such a cl )Se unit-they adjust to playing college foot­justing rrom the demands ofhigh just took me right in. There's no ball." school practices to those on the separation between the fresh­Like any freshman, Toran college level. It's difficult having men and the seniors. adm.its there are real difficulties football on your mind for almost 
"I really noticed quite a close­in making the adjustment to the five hours a day." ness among the defensive backs college world, but so far, he has But those grueling hours out when I first came here," he found none inside the classroom. on the practice turf have paid continues. ·'They're all here to "For me, there's been no rich dividends for Stacey. In the help each other-Dave ·problem adjusting academically six games Toran pas played, the 
by Matt Huffman The course at the U of I is Duerson, why, he's been like a -I'm really happy with the way 6-4, 185-pounder has chalked upSports Writer similar to Notre Dame's at the big brother to all the new guys, professors help the students and 21 tackles, including one sack for Bourke Memorial golf course. kind of coaching us along and give extra time to them. My a seven-yard loss and accounted 
Saturday morning the Notre The terrain on both is generally showing us different ways to biggest problem has been ad­
[continued on page 14]

Dame cross country team will considered flat in relation to have a final oppurtunity to prove most other courses on the Mid­to its fans and more importantly west. "This should work in our itself that it is a credible squad. favor. We've ruhTour ofour five "The top four teams frqm the meets here so there ·shouldn't be race will go to the NCAA any special problems as far as the 
Grapplers plan opener
championships next week. Since course goes," claims Piane. there be teams like Indiana and Piane also says that the extra Michigan there, our chances are distance in the 10,000 meter(6.2
slim. But there will be teams by Beth H uflman State University. outlast season as transfer student
miles) should have no adverse there that we havn't beaten that affect-all the other Irish meets / Sports Editor The Spartan tournament, starts as the 150-pounder. 
where Notre Dame finished last Campana, who Bruno sayswe are capable ofbeating. This is have been five mile jaunts this inafieldofeightin 1979, boasts a "electrifies practices, he's just sowhere the meet will prove The Notre Dame wrestling
season. 

team opens the 1980-81 season guest list of perennial powers. good," was Iowa's only non­valuable to us," says head coach In the past the Irish stategy has 
Joe Piane. this weekend at the Biggie Munn Bro. Joseph Bruno, who be­scored upon state champ during
always been to run in a pack and Invitational. The tournament, gins his first season at the Irish his prep days.

The meet is the NCAA District scheduled for Friday and Satur­helm, is not quite sure which Steele Mehl and Brian Erard
IV championships to be held this 
[continued on page .J2] 

day, will be held at Michigan clubs will give his squad its will wrestle-off for the 158-slotSaturday at Champaign, Ill. at the toughest competition. while Paul DeBaggis leads aUniversity ofIllinois. DistrictiV "That's the problem with number ofcandidates in the 167­is, in rough terms, the being new to this area, says the pound category.
Midwestern industrial states. So Reunions aboundfor 37-year-old Bruno. "but JohnInglar, a junior co-captain included in the race will be most Michigan State and Brockport from Cincinnati, Ohio, looks toof the Big Ten conference, all of State are the largest two schools be Notre Dame's top weight atthe MAC, and key independents 
ND hockeyplayers on road 
at the tournament. And 177-pounds. Inglar boast 33such as Marquette, Depaul and Brockport ,State is known as a collegiate wins after two years,Cleveland State .. 
families a chance to see their sons wrestling school." making him the winningest re­
In addition to the top four by Brian Beglane play. Starting things for the Irish at turning letterman. 
teams qualifying, the first five Sports Wrtter 
the 118-pound class will be Notre Dame will have to
So it continues this weekend

individuals to finish who are not for senior left wing Kevin junior Bob Davis, followed by forfeit the 190 and heavyweight on one of the these squads will With all the travel-5,000 Humphreys and sophomore sophomore Mark Fisher at 126-categories due to lack of make the trip to Wichita, Kan. miles to be exact-that the pounds. Fisher, a native of competitors.
right wing Dave Lucia when they 
on Nov. 24 for the finals. rtis this Notre Dame hockey team has Buchanan, Mich., captured the "Our problem rests as a duel
return to America's Dairy land­
way that Piane feels the Irish will logged in the last month, items National Catholic cro"'n last meet team," says Bruno. "Losing 
Wisconsin. The Irish play the
be represented. such as plane trips, bus rides and year. those last two weights starts us
Badgers of Wisconsin in a two­
"Chuck (Aragon) has a good a quick lunch or dinner at the Curt Rood, a junior from offwith 12 points against u_s. But,
game series Friday and Saturday
chance ofqualifying. It'sa 10,000 exquisite Tartan Tray Cafeteria Sturgis, Mich., moves up a notch as a tournament team we have
at the :Qane County Coliseum in
meter race so he'll have to run in Chicago's O'Hare Airport from his 126-pound berth of the strength and should do pretty
Madison.
have become commonplace.

about 30:40 which he is very past two seasons to the 134 slot. 
So have reunions for thE "It's always a lot more fun good.
capable of doing. If he -can place At the 142-pound class will be 'Tm totally happy with the
playing in front of family and
in the top fifteen he should make players' families and friends. • sophomore Mike Mills, another team and what they've been
friends," Humphreys,
Last week's trip to the Twin says a
the cut." Michigan native. Mills captured doing in practice and so far they 
resident of Green Bay.
IfAragon, a senior who serves Cities of Minneapolis-St. Paul the state high school title an are all pretty enthusiastic. Our
"I have a lot of friends I'll be 

as co-captain, does qualify, he gave many players ample op­unprecedented four straight spirit is remarkable and we're
seeing -and some playing
will be the first Irish runner since portunity to see high school times. just looking forward to this Jim Rhinehart did so in 1975. friends and also gave many [continued on page 12] JuniorJohn Campana, who sat weekend. 







