----~----------------------~~--­
~ ~ ---~~-------------­
---~~ 
• • .Jack Daniels -page 8 
_VOL. XIV, NO. 109 an inqependem student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, MARCH 19, 1980 



U.S. bans export ofcomputers to U.S.S.R. 
Kathleen Sweeney Suzanne Scheib.er 
AtSMC 
Cal)didates announce platforms 
by Mary Leavitt StaffReporter 
Although Kathleen Sweeney, candidate for St. 
Mary's College Student Body President feels 
that her ticket may be known as the more 
experienced one, she doesn't want to be 
known for only her experience. 
"I am not trying to run on my experience 
alone," Sweeney said. "That is just a 
complement to the other things that I wish to do. 
I have lots of new ideas for next year." 
Campaignin~ with Sweeney are Joan 
McCarthy who ts running for Vice-President of 
Academic Affairs, and Nini Stoll who is running 
for Vice-President of Student Affairs. 
Sweeney ~ees the role of student government 
as being clearly defined. "First and foremost, 
those in student government should be student 
advocates," Sweeney explained. "We want to 
present th<.: students' opinions to the administra­
tion.'' 
''If the Hudcnts get involved in trying to solve 
a problem at Saint Mary's on their own, that's 
fantastic," Sweeney continued. "Our eyes are 
open to problems, but if the students initiate 
something, thr;t's all for the better. Student 
~overnment in this case can serve as an .mformation board.'' Sweeney's platform is also centered around the idea of service. "Besides strengthening social activities, we want to provide services to the students at Saint Mary's," Sweeney said. ''That is really the whole purpose of Student government anywhere.'' 
by Mary Leavitt StaffReporter 

''You just have to ask yourself if you are willing to do the work or not," said Suzanne Scheiber, candidate for Saint Mary's College Student Body President summing up her ticket's feelings on the upcoming election. 
Scheiber's running mates are Bernadette Calarco and Marie Liz Hackl who are running for Vice Presidetn of Academic Affairs and Vice President of Student Affairs respectively. 
Scheiber feels that even though her ticket offers less experience than the Sweeney ticket, this could be advantageous. 
"I think that it's a good idea to get new people in with fresh ideas," Scheiber said. "Pia (Trigiani) has said that she is willing to help us through the transition period and records have been kept of this year's activities that we could use.'' _ 
"We are running for the students; we'll be behind them," Calarco said. "One of our campaign slogans is 'Your input is our output.' We really mean that." 
Scheiber and her ticket are happy with the way the campaign is going thus far. "I am 

pleased  that  there  has  been  no  animosity  
between candidates and I am sure  that there  
won't be," Scheiber said.  

"Maybe Sweeney's name is more upfront than mine and maybe they do have more campaign promises than we do, but we didn't want to promise anything we didn't know for sure that we'd be able to carry out," Scheiber concluded. 

HPC meets, Lewis urges st1:1dents to register to vote 
by Mary Fran Callahan 
Senior StaffJl_eporter 
In an effort to combat an alleged attempt by county _offi-

Reagan captures ·Illinois 
CHICAGO (AP) -Ronald. Reagan captured Illinois last night and gained all-but-un­stoppable command of the contest for the Republican presidential nomination. Pres­tdent Carter won the Demo­cratic primary in a landslide that dealt a staffering blow to the challenge of Sen. Edward Kennedy. 
Reagan defeated Rep. John 

B. Anderson, the liberal con­gressman from Rockford, IlL, and left former U.N. Ambassa­dor George Bush a far-back third. 
Carter was swamping Kennedy by a margin of more than 2-to-1 in gaining he greatest prize yet of the De~o­cratic campaign. 
The defeat cost Kennedy the very state he once had said would be his arena for a comeback against Carter. But Kennedy said in advance he would continue his quest for the nomination. 
In Republican competition, Bush's poor showing put in doubt hts ability to mount a meaningful challenge to Reagan. 
"It's a great boost to move into the industrial Midwest and take a state like Illinois," Reagan said in New Haven Conn., where he took his campaign in anticipaiton of next Tuesday's New York and Connecticut primaries. He said, ''Itgives us momentum,'' and immediately began talking 
[continued on page 4] 
WASHINGTON (AP) -In one of its strongest actions to date against the Soviet Union, the Carter administration moved yesterday to block not only the export of sophisticated U.S. computers but also raw mater­ials and products that could be critical to Soviet industry. · 
The administration also an­nounced adoption of more rigid standards for the export of so called "process technology," such as petro-chemical install­ations, and products or data that could give clues about 
U.S. technological advances. 
• • About the only exceptions will be for 'humanitarian' pur­poses, such as parts for health equipment,'' administration offictals said. 

The new trade policy was developed in the wake of the Soviet occupation of Afghani­stan last December. 
''It will mean, overall, that the great bulk of products the Soviets had expected to buy (from the United States) this year isn't going," said an administration official who asked not to be identified. 
Another official, who also requested anonymity, added, "There's a significant and hi~h level of interest by our allies 10 wanting to work with us on this." 
At a briefing at the Com­merce Department, officials said the decision would mean that "a substantial number" of the 700 export licenses hung up during polict review" wifl not be approve< . " Such U.S. licenses are required prior to the shipment of high-techology goods overseas. 
The officials declined to speculate on the value of the goods, which in the past has been estimated at $1 billion or more for shipments over a period of several years. 
Under rules of the briefing, the officials could not be named. They represented the departments of State, Defense and Commerce. 
President Carter ordered an export-policy review on Jan. 4, when he also blocked the shipment of some 17 million metric tons of grain that the Soviets had arranged to pur­
chase from U.S. farmers. Last month Carter asked 
U.S. athletes to boycott the Olympic Games in Moscow next summer, and in recent days he asked U.S. manufac­turers of Olympic-related pro­ducts to refrain from shipping them. 
The actions have been in­tended to underscore U.S. dis­pleasure with Soviet military mvolvement in Afghanistan, which the Carter· administra­tion considers a threat to stability in the oil-rich Persian Gulf region and a violation of Afghan sovereignty. 
The latest moves -worked out jointly by officials from the 
[crmtinued on page 5] 
cials to prevent students trom registering to vote, Paul Lewis has initiated a caitlpus voter registration drive and claimed County Registrar Coreen Wroblewski "has the arro­gance to deny somebody a constitutional right." Lewis introduced his registration plan at the Hall Presidents' Council meeting held last night in Stanford HalL 
According to Lewis, •count}'' officials are doing everything possible . to l?revent students from regtstenng on G. mpus . At this time only 92 students are registered to vote on cam­pus. Lewis said Notre Dame has virtually "no voice down­town'' because of its voter turnout. he intimated such a voice would be beneficial especially with the problem in conjunction with the bars. 
Currently two ways to regis­ter exist. A student can go down town to the CountyICtty Boilding and register in person or go to a deputized register--a person who has the power to register voters--on campus. According to Lewis, county officials are sparse at "deputi­zing'' and even less coopera­tive with encouraging on-cam­pus registration. 
Lewts said that Wroblewski "doesn't think Notre Dame students should vote since they are not permanent residents." Wroblewski has distributed only 100 registration forms and deputized JUSt two students. Wroblewski will not distribute any more forms until one has been completed and turned in. This give oneI get one proce­dure, according to Lewis, is making massive registration difficult. 
Lewis said that if 2000 students registered to vote, Notre Dame would then be able to elect a city councilman. County officials, according to Lewis, do not want to grant students this representation. 
Lewis said he plans to notify local television stations about the city's effort to thwart student voting. He encouraged the hall presidents to"push voting'' in the dorms and said that Student Government will even "bus students downtown' if they have to. The registra­tion deadline is April 7. 
At the meeting's onset, Paul Riehle, the student body presi­dent elect who assumes office April 1, distributed an Obser­ver article, which he wrote last week, advocating kegs. Riehle encouraged council members to discuss the situation with their rectors. Riehle's article condemned CLC' srecenr legis­lative action which quenched the keg proposal. 
Bill Roche, student body president, then sroke briefly-­giving a farewel to outgoing BPC members and a good luck wish for the incoming ones. According to Stanford Hall President Kevin Jordan, new HPC members have been ''trickling in the last three or 
[continued on page 3] 



News in brief 
Wednesday, March 19, 1980 -page 2 
Noted author and lovegod 
Rice speaks onfamily planning
Erich Fromme dies at 79 
by Colleen Short 
contraception man takes the tion ofthis contraceptive ethic. LUCARNO, Switzerland (AP) -Eminent psychoanalyst 
law of God into his own hands It springs from the same root:
Prof. Charles Rice of the
Erich Fromm, author of "The Art of Loving" in which he said and seperates the unitive from a separation of life from love.
Notre Dame Law School gave a the procreative function of the There is much wisdom to be of human existence," died yesterday of a heart attack at his 
•'love is the only sane and satisfactory answer to the problem talk on the morality of natural sexual act. 
found in the words of Professor
family planning last night in Rice went on to explain that Rice. Many practices ofhome in suburban Muralto, family sources said. He was five O'Shaughnessy Hall.
days away from his 80th birthday. The German-born 
God has placed natural modern society illustrate the American became one of the world's most respected 
Rice approached the issue of rhythms in the human body 
elevation of human law above psychoanalytical thinkers. His pioneering works included 
contraception from the Catholic which can be used to plan a the law of God. Modern man "Psychoanalym and Religion" and "Healthv Society." 
perspective. Sexual relations family. Partial abstinence is is attemptingmore and more to 
possess unitive and procreative not merely an alternate form of ' shoulder the responsibility for 
purposes which were assigned 
contraception. human life. According to Rice by God, Rice said. These According to the Catholic the question is whether or not
Waywardswallow exodus 
purposes are intrinsically join­
Church the natural method is this burden will soon prove to ed. With the use of artificial moral and permissable because 
much for him to bear. ultimately God remains in con­

causesproblems for suburbs 
trol of conception." With the use of artifictal contraception,
SGopens Actress
SAN JUAN CAPISTRANO, Calif. (AP)-Noise and people 
man takes the control out of are causing the historic swallows of SanJuan Capistrr.no to 
God's hands and violates the flock to quieter suburbs where they've become a sticky 
natural law which He has problem for health officials. The tiny cleft-tailed birds, which 

applications to speak on
established, he said. are due to complete their annual 7 ,000-mile pil~rimage 
Rice, thinks natural family today, are abandoning the 183-year-old adobe mtsswn here 
planning brings a couple closer for the bedroom community of Mission Viejo, about six miles 
for positions together in spirit. The two alcoholism away. The nine-year-old Mission Viejo Community Hospital people must cooperate and 
has become a particular favorite with the birds. 
communicate if they are to plan Mercedes McCambridge,
Student Government is accep­
naturally. . Academy Award winning ac­
ting applications now through 
. "By interposing a drug, tress and star of several Broad­
March 28, for cabinet positions. 
plug, or pill the two people are way dramas, will discuss her
ABCclir,~,-bs back to ratings 
Applications and job descrip­
blocking total communication,'' career and the effect of a bout
tions may be picked up at the 
he said. with alcoholism during a Uni­
Student Government offices, 
Rice contends that the con­versity of Notre Dame lecture
second floor LaFortune, from


leadover CBS challenge 
ceptive mentality is the cause at 7:30 p.m. tonight in the
the Student Government Secre­
of the chaos prevelant in library auditorium. The pro­tary.
NEW YORK (AP) -ABC wrestled first place in the today's society. The separa­gram, open to the public, is
Positions open include: Execu­
networks' ratings race away from CBS for the first time since tion of the unitive and procrea­sponsored by Student Govern­
tive Co-ordinators (3), Housing, 
the Winter Olympics, winning the competition for the week tive functions of the sexual act ment and University's Psycho­
Security, Academic, Special
ending March 16 with only two of the 10 most-watched has led to rampant porno­logical Services Program.
Projects (2), Social Life, Social
shows. CBS listed the four highest-rated programs, figures graphy, promiscuity, and McCambridge is the honor­
Concerns, Athletic, Third
from the A.C. Nielsen Co. showed, includ10g "60 Minutes" homosexuality. ary chairman of the National
World, Co-Exchange, Co-Edu­
in first place, but finished three-tenths of a point behind "If sex doesn't inherently Council on Alcoholism and also
cation, Interracial Concerns,
ABC, 18.6 to 18.3. NBC was third with an average of 17.4. 
have something to do with the directs Livengron Foundation,
Freshman Orientation, Alumni 
creation of babies, then there a rehabilitation center for alco­
Relaticns, HPC and CLC Lia­
is no reason why Freddie and holics.
son, Publicity and Personnel,

Weather 
Harry can~ t get married," Rice The subject of her ~;>resenta­
Co-ordinator, Research Com­
said. tion will address mtsconcep­missionerships. 
He contends that abortion is tions about drug abuse and herMostly sunny with highs in the mid 50s. Increasing clouds 
Anyone interested in working
tonight with a 50 percent chance for showers by tomorrow the most dramatic manifesta-own struggle with alcohol.
for Student Government, but
morning. Lows tonight in the low 40s. Showers likely 
not necessarily in a commis­
.----TAKENG ftllCATS?------.
tomorrow. Highs in the mid 50s. 
sionership may also pick up an 1 application. NOWAVAILABLE: "A Comp!cte Preparation For the NEW MCAT. '' A 420 page self-study gurl.Je developed at Harvard Jn1versi!y to improve sc1encc and math performance. 
Before investing hundreds invest only S14 00 (incl postage)
~The Observer_



CamP-_u_s-~ 
Night Editor: Ann 

HeaHh Professions Education Se;vice Inc. 11901 Goya Or. Roc!~vrlle. MD 20854
"Farewell, Late Nights!" 

Please forward . copies of the NEW :viCAT preparation
Monaghan9:15 am GERONTOLOGY LECTURE "older adults" 

guide at S14.00 per cooy. Amo:Jnt of er,clo3ed check ______
Asst. Night Editor: Danny

special groups & their concerns, dr. charles mckelvey, smc, 
Print Name ____________________
"Movin' Up" Tarullo, Mike anthropology & social work. 
RM I HAVICAN, sponsored by dept. of sociology, 
Jans 

Address------------------­
Copy Editor: MB Moran 

City··State__________________l·p___ 
Layout Staff Mary "So Am imminolofy," dr. john j. galvin, miles labs. GALVIN AUD. 
12: 1') pm SEMINAR "selected topics of cellular 
I" Leavitt News Editor: Margie 3:30pm SEMINAR "nuclear fuel management," dr. henry 
Brassil 

for great music and a great time ...
Editorial Layout: Ann Gales 303 CUSHING HALL, spons: aero & mech. engr. 
e. bltss, nuclear fuel service dept. commonwealth edison, 
Features Layout: Molly Woulfe 

Sports Layout: Brian ecosystems," dr. john cairns, jr., va. poly inst. & st. U. 
4:30 pm SEMINAR "resiliency, inertia & elasticity of 
Beg lane GALVIN AUD. 
Typists: Doctor G, Paula Shea, Katie Bigane, Kathy 4:30pm SEMINAR "albol condensation of regiospec~fic 
Murray penicillanate & cephalosporonate enolates, & the formauon 
EMT: Kim ''The Real of a novel bicydo (2.2.0) b lactam," dr. frank dininno, 
Fingers" Convey merck, sharp & dohme research labs, 123 NIEUWLAND. 
Proofreader: John Chaussee ND Day Editor: Darsy 7 pm PLEDGE CEREMONY & MEETING, spons: alpha 

~*•1980j'**
"Wifey" Campbell 
Ad Design: Anne Finkphi omega service fraternity, new members welcome, ROOM 

Ft8TIVA.l~~\\
Photographer: Beth Prezio Guest Appearances: Patsy 7pm SEMINAR, abortion, sponsored by nd-smc right to 
107 O'SHAG. 
& Tom (The Happy Couple), 
life, WALSH HALL, ND 

March ll and ll
Mark "Green Beer" Perry, 

Beth Huffman, Mikey7.lJ:I'S,II:30pm FILM "chinatown,"ENGR.AUD.spons: 
"Curly" Ruhe, The Editorial sc·nior class, admission $1. 

Board, Bill Marquard, John 


STEPAN CENTER 
''I'm Tired! " Smith H pm CONCERT "jack daniel's silver coronet band " 
TICKETS: all session pass $850 
()'LAUGHLIN AUD. spons: performing arts series, $3,50 
The Observer [USPS • 920] Is 

and $2. (smc students free). 
published Monclly through Friday n­
($750 students) 
cept during exam and wacat11n ........ The Observer Is publlsllld by 1111

8 pm COFFEE HOUSE, wednesday night coffeehouse, 
students of Notrt 011111 IIIII Slillt 
Friday

food and entertainment, REGINA HALL AUD. spons: alcohol 
Miry's Cellegt. Sullscriptlla lillY be 
.

edu. council smc. free of charge. 
purcllaaed for S20 per year [$11 per llmlltlr] from The Observer. 1'.0. bn 

Saturday afternoon 
Q. Nltrl Dame. llldilna 41556. SICIIId

10 pm NAZZ nd jazz combo, NAZZ. 
clau :ge paid, Netrt 011111, Ill-
Saturday nite

diana . II pm LIVE MUSIC live music in the pub, harry nelis & 

The Observer 11 1 lllllllber If 1111 Auedated Pms. All iepiedlctlen

friends, spons: senior bar, SENIOR BAR. 
rlglltJ 11'1 l'1llfYid. 


su ticket office 

1t. :o -• e -• • 0\ ; • a &. •· • 1 I· t. t,. .. llfl ._~ •• ....._"-'".. 
The Observer Wednesday, March 19, 19~0 -page 3 

.. .HPC 

[continued from page 1] 
four weeks." 
A sP.eaker then talked to the council about the Mercedes McCambridge lecture being held tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Lbrary Auditorium. McCam­bridge, an ex-radio star and Academy Award winner, is a former alcoholic. The unidenti­fied speaker said he is current­ly researching the success of non-alcoholic parties in the dorms. He added that McCambridge's lectures at other universities have always "gone over well" with her audiences, and then distri­buted publicity posters for the· lecture. 
The HPC chairman then 
announced Dillon Hall won the 
Sowder Trophy--an award 
given to recognize outstanding 
dorm spirit and acitvity. 
Pat Conklin, the new Dillow 
Hall president who assumed 
office February 1, cited high­
lights of his hall's activities. 
Dillon purchased a block of 

200 tickets to the last hockey 
game and sponsored a "Save 
Hockey'' Ntght. The 200 
residents then walked over to 
the ~arne together as an affir­
mation ofsupport for the team. 
Dillon also has been sending residents in groups of 15-20 to volunteer at Logan Center of Saturday mornings. Conklin said he believed the activity "is something everyone should have the chance to do at least once in college." Consequent­ly,Dillon has attempted to send different residents on alterna­ting Saturdays. 
Another highlight of the ·hall's activities included a 
"wine and cheese and mixed 
drink extravaganza'' commem­
orating Junior Parents Week­
end. Dtllon also instituted its 
first bowling league in Feb. · 
by Toni Aanstoos 

An increase of student fees is expected at Notre Dame next year accordin~ to Thomas Mas­on, vice prestdent of Business Affairs. Mason could not disclose any figures at this time as the Board of Trustees who approve the fees will not meet until May. 
"It would be premature and unwise to quote any figures now," Mason said. 
Presently, undergraduate tu­ition is $4, 130; graduate tuition costs $3950 and for law school $4,050. Room and board at ND, which includes laundry service, costs on the average $1,515. 
Mason spoke o( the increas­ing practice ~f coll.eges raising 
their rates m mtd-year. In past years an annual budget was formulated and then just "let it ride." Yet now with the factor of unpredictable infla­tionary rates increasing college costs in the middle of the year is becoming more commonplace. "Yet no one wants to increase their rates especially at mid­year," Mason concluded. 
Speaking on the economic advantages and disadvantages of being a private school, Mason pointed out "It's great to get the large state grants that state schools receive, yet pri­vate schools have more control over their destiny because they 
.don't have to worry whether the state legislation will give them the funds they need." 
Mason expresses pride and 
· gratitude when refening to the ND alumni. ''Not only .the alumni, but also the people who contribute just because they agree .with our phillosophy ~f educatton are very generous, he stated. The fund raising campaigns are highly organized and productive. 
The University has the 12th or 13th largest endowment fund of all schools in the nation includ­ing Harvard and Yale. An endowment differs from a regu­lar contribution in lthe respect that it is never really used, the money is invested in banks but the interest it earns is utilized by the University. Thus endow-­ments are permanent income. 
Another budgetary benefit to Notre Dame is indirect income from research. The federal government or private industry pays not only the direct cost of materials and the researcher 

Suitcaseparty helpsfight blues 
by Annman·e Storz 

Two students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's spent 
McCarrell to speak tomorrow 
Major American figurative artist ] ames Me Garrell will discuss his work tomorrow night at 8 p.m. in the Little Theatre of La Fortune. A reception will follow in the Isis Gallery. 
Me Garrell's awards include a Fulbright Fellowship, a Gug­
genheim  Fellowship,  and  a  
National  Endowment  for the  
Arts.  '  

On Friday morning at 10 
a.m. in the Boxing Room, the artist will hold an informal discussion on making art and being an artist. 
last weekend lying on the white sandy beaches of the Bahamas­-and it only cost them $11 each. 
] oe Lohle and Mariano Hoban were the lucky winners in the "Bahama Suttcase Party," which was held off-campus last Thursday night. 
Pete Whelan and Bob Daw­son, two enterprising business majors who live in Grace hall, · were bored by the winter social scene and decided several months ago to organize a ''different'' type of party. Dawson and Whelan arranged all of the details and collected $11 from 90 adventurous, beach-hungry, sick-of-the-snow Domers. 
The party attracted mostly ND/SMC students, although channel 22's anchorwoman, Rebecca Marr, was on hand to observe the festivities, as were several South Bend merchants who supplied food for the bash. Most of the crowd was attired in the proper beach attire, spor~­ing sandals, shorts, suntan otl and even "It's better in the Bahamas". tee-shirts. 
At .. midnight, silence fell over the crowd as ten names were selected from the 90. One by one names were eliminated until only two were left. By this time Lohle was confident of his victory. Amid shouts of sup­port, Dawson eliminated the la~t name, leaving Lohle as the wmner. 
Lohle then chose another per­son to accompany him from the crowd. The two left early Friday morning and were ex­pected to return late Monday night. 
The party was a success judging from the positive res­ponse of those attendin~. "It was a night of entertamment and enjoyment, fun and food, good times and good beer. This should happen more often!'' commented Will Zacola, a jun­ior from Grace hall. 
Dawson and Whelan were extremely pleased by the suc­cess of thetr endeavor -but no more pleased than the guests, who enjoyed a party even if they did remain right here in South Bend all weekend. . 


ND plcms tuition hike for '80-'81 
and his staff, but the funding organization also recognizes the burden that research places on administration. Thus, they pay the college for indirect costs. This money goes into the University's pool of revenues. 
The University also receives income from auxilary sources such as sports, the bookstore, and the barbershop. These sources are self-supporting or revenue producing. If they make a profit the overhead goes 
to the University's revenues. Accordingly, if these auxiliaries need more money or are operat­ing at a loss, the University will contribute funds producing a reciprocal relation. 
Mason was reluctant to en­large upon the subject of sports because athletics has a separate budget of which he is not in charge. However, he did say that revenues from playoffs and bowl games are not built into the University's lbudgetc be­cause it ''would be dtsaster­ous'' to rely on sources that may not produce. 
All post season games when played are an extra source of mcome for the University. Once afater a victorious Cotton Bowl in Texas, a reporter asked Mason on what all the money was going to be spent. Mason then explained the money goes to the University in the form of endowments for academics. The reporter could not believe that the money was going · toward academics and not ath­letics; Mason responded ''It was never theirs (athletics) to begin with.'' 
It has been proven that ''ND is the most efficient university among the Big Ten," Mason stated. The University produ­ces its own electiri, ty; thus, is not dependent for power from the high priced utility com­panies. 
·Flexibility in the type of energy is another reason for Notre Dame's efficient rate. The University can generate energy from coal, gas, or oil. Thus, having the option to use any of the three Notre Dame can produce energy from the cheapest source. Energy con­servation also adds to the University's efficiency. 

Rent Your Tuxedo At..... 
CENTURY FORMALWEAR 
anything in stock 


$2995 
1622 MISHAWAKA A-VE. (S.B..) 287-5938 

j '· 

i'd 

The Observer Wednesday, March 19, 1980 -page 4 
... Primaries 
[continued from page i] electing 152 delegates, Repub­delegates, close to one-third of 
licans 92. . the majority he needs. about "the main contest" In Anderson told his supporters Later, Powell heralded the November. ~hat the primary was only "a Ulinois vote as evidence that Like Kennedy, Bush had phase of this campaign," and voters will "reject candidates 
, once said the contest would be said defeat would not drive him who offer cost-free, election a watershed. L\ke Kennedy, from the race. year, quick-fix solutions'' to he said defeat would not force He insisted that Reagan major problems." him from tht-race. connot win the November elec­Kennedy conceded defeat in With 42 percent of the tion and said, "Whatever the popular vote, and said that precincts reporting, it was: happens tonight, we will con­he hopes Carter's success in 
Caner 324,033 or 65 percent. tinue." Illinois will not be interpreted Kennedy 151,589 or 30 Anderson was banking as an endorsement of the administrations's economic and 
percent . heavily on independents and California Gov. Edmund G. somettme Democrats to cross foreign policies. Brown Jr. had 3 percent. over and boost his showing, Kennedy failed to challenge and he ran ahead in suburban the president even among the
On th~ H.epublican side, with 
Chicago. But the conservative state's huge Catholic and Irish 36 percent counted: 
Reagan was the leader else­voting blocs. Kennedy is anReagan 207,528 or 49 
where. Irish Catholic himself, but thepercent. 
AP-NBC poll showed that
Anderson 152,991 or 36 Bush, in Madison, Wis., said Carter was preferred 2-to-1
percent what he got was about what he among both groups. The
Bush 45, 594 or 11 percent. had expected. "Politics is a bit Rep. Philip Crane of Illinois of a roller coaster,". he said. Massachusetts senator trailed had 2 percent. His campaign director, James similarly among low-income 
and blue-collar voters. 

Baker, said Bush stifl has
While that preferential vote plenty of money and good state Kennedy trailed far behindranked the candidates, the 
organizations. He said Bush Carter in Chicago, wherecompetition that ciuonted was 
would focus on Connecticut, Mayor Jane Byrne had tried toin separate balloting for na­New York, Pennsylvania and boost his cause. She said lasttional convention delegates .. 
Texas. night she would urge him notThat count was proceeding to withdraw from the cam­
slowly. "You let us win one and we paign, addihg that she stillWith percent of the will turn this thing around,"
10 hoped for headway in the
Baker said. 

precincts counted in Demo-Even before the polls closed, delegate competition. cratic competition, Carter led White House press secretary The Republican ballot also for 97, K("nnedy for 12. Jody Powell said that Carter listed campaign dropouts 
Howard Baker, Bob Dole andTen percent had been count-has such a commanding dele­John Connally, along with V.A.
ed in the GOP delegate ballot-gate lead that Kennedy would Kelly, a farmer from Oswegoing and Reagan led for 32 have to w!n a landslide every as
nominating votes, Crane for 3, Tuesday to overtake the prest­who describes himself a 
mule driver. They drew
Anderson for 2. dent. He said that by White scattered votes.
All told, Democrats were House count, Carter has 496 
With three candidates al­ready out of the race, Bush in 
. ------~----~-~~~~, 
trouble, Crane talking about the vice-presidency, and

-!!!!iT'~I
Anderson too liberal to be a likely nominee, Reagan came
...ectlon and conc.ntkk•theadq;~tt'!ta I 
,,...... . ·.. .· I to Illinois in clear command of the Republican race. Even the 
any regular album or tape j "Ford for President" cloud
Jl.OO was gone. After 15 days of
1 

hinting that he might run, former President Gerald R. Ford announced on Saturday night that he would not. 
Illinois was Carter's 17th victory over Kennedy in pri­maries and state caucuses. Kennedy has won twice. 
The Democratic outcome was a blow to Chicago Mayor Jane Byrne, who had backed
[ ~•iOI! ~llll~ 9n~ %cblm olte now ?votfuW'e 
Kennedy. She had her own political problems anyhow, and m the waning days of the campaign, Kennedy aides sug­gested she was more liability 
ill ~ccro~tutte ottd. ~0~. 
~i' 
BUY RAFFLE TICKETS ,...5 
than asset. 

, AT SENIOR BAR AND 
Kennedy was trailing far behind Carter in a partial count 
I SAVE$501!! ..' ~. :~ -~ 
of the Chicago vote. He looked to the city, which elected 49 'oRAWINGMARCH20, ~ f~{,,< national convention delegates, for a measure of rescue in that
ll]:OO pm AT SENIOR BAR. ~-r ,~~-~ phase of the competition. 
. 11 

The Notre Dame-0 'Hanlon's volleyball team practices ior their upcoming tournament: [photo by Beth Prezio] 

Wong receives chair in Math department 
Dr. Warren J. Wong, a Wong, who headed the depart­member of the Department of ment from 1974 to 1976. He 
Mathematics faculty at the succeeds Dr. John E. Derwent, University of Notre Dame sice who has been chairman since 1964, has been named chair­
1Cl76. man of the department by the A native of New Zealand, 
Uniyersity's provost, Prof. Wong studied at the University Timothy O'Meara. ,,fOtago there, receiving bach­The appointment, which is doc's and master's degrees in 
effective September 1, marks a. science, before doing doctoral 
return to the position for r studies at Harvard University, where he received his Ph.D. 10 mathematics in 1959. He returned to Otago, where he
Orientation taught four years before 
coming to Notre Dame. A specialist in the very
seeks aaive field of finite groui> theory, Wong has received National Science Foundation support for research in the
transfers artthmetical theory of classical groups. He is a member of the American and Australian
Any Freshmen or 
Sophomores tnterested in Matht·matical Societies. working with Fre~hmen and "Dr. Wong's experience in Transfer Student Orientation administration, teaching and for the upcoming semester research will enable h1m to should call Tim Hamilton at give strong leadership to the 1166. People with new id("as, department," commented Dr. especially former transfer stu­Francis J. Castellino, dean of dents are needed. the Cdlege of Science. 
The Observer Wednesday, March 19, 1980 -page 5 

Iranian council orders investigation of fraud 
(AP) -Iran's Revolutionary complaints came from men Council ordered an investiga­close to Khomeini -Parliament­tion yesterday of alle~ations of ary candidate Ayatollah Ali fraud in national parliamentary Tehrani, who claimed balloting elections, most of it attributed was rigged in many districts, to the Islamic party that is and Khomeini's brother, Aya­leading in the contest. tollah Pasandideh, who de­If it dominates the new Parlia­manded an immediate investi­
ment, the clergy-led Islamic gation into the tactics of the Republican Parry might ob­Islamic party. struct President Abolhassan After a meeting last night of 
Bani-Sadr's efforts to have the Iran's ruling Revolutionary 
U.S. Embassy hostages freed Council, Foreign Minister quickly. It was unclear whether Sadegh Ghotbzadeh said a com­the inquiry would further delay mission of five to seven mem­convening of Parliament. bers would conduct a thorough 
Ayatollah Ruhollah Kilomeini study of the charges. declared an amnesty for several He gave no indication of the thousand political prisoners and likelihood of new balloting be­
chastised the most zealous of ing ordered in some or all of the his revolutionary followers for 270 voting districts. As it now indiscriminate arrests of''coun­stands, the Majlis is not expec­
ter-revolutionaries.'' ted to take up the hostage issue In other developments, the until early or mid-May. government has reported to 
have pledged not to execute the deposed shah if he is extradi­ted, and the United States 
IU Med School faces controversy over cadaver 
resumed its case against Iran in the World Court. by Bridget Berry seen them. are performed and surveying added. "And graduate stu­The new, 270-scat Iranian Brian Woods who occupies the grounds outside laboratory dents in the Departmellt of parliament, or Majlis, is the Cadavers are dissected by the room directly adjacent to windows, it is apparent that Biology frequently select our Indiana University first year the basement windows said rumors are the result of sensa­facultv members as advisors."
principal hope for release of the 
hostages. Revolutionary leader medical students attending the that neither he nor his room­tionalized ''hearsay.'' Th~ Center was opened in Khomeini says the Majlis must South Bend Center for Medical mate had seen the cadavers -Troeger explained that Haggar Ha.l in 1970. decide the Americans' fate, and Education (SBCME) located in they hadn't even heard any SBCME is financed through An average of twenty first 
Haggar Hall according to Dir­rumors. Indianapolis and that it is year medical students are en­Bani-Sadr has made clear he is 
eager to end the crisis over the ector Thomas Troeger. Steve Smith may be able to independent of Notre Dame. rolled each year according to "However," he insisted, explain the origin of the He said that several faculty Troeger. Next year an addition
hostage-holding. 
"we don't experiment at all on rumors. "Yes, I said that members at the Center have of stx sophomores will beBut leaders of the conservative them." He said that first year there were experiments on adjunct appointments with the accomodated for the first time.
IRP, which was ahead in first 
returns from last Friday's elec­medical students use them in cadavers being done over Department of Biology. Troeger believes at least one the fall semester anatomy lab. there. I heard it from someone ''Two of our courses--Bio­of the stx to twelve Notre Dame 
tions, ~enerally are more sym­
pathetic to the anti-U.S. tactics "Every medical school uses who graduated last year." chemistry and Microbiology-­graduates accepted to l.U .' s of the young Moslem militants cadavers,'' he added. After investigating the lab­are taught by Notre Dame School of Medicine each year Dr. Troeger, a hematologist, oratory in which the dissections faculty members," Troeger attends the South Bend Center. 
holding the embassy. The IRP 
leader, Ayatollah Mahammed said that experiments at the Center are conducted by either
Beheshti, backs their demand graduate students or profes­for return of the ousted Shah sors. He cited expenmentsMohammad Reza Pahlavi and now being done in the areas ofhis wealth in exchange for the neural sc1ence and physiology.
hostages' release. 
He acknowledged that ratsFirst returns showed candi­and other small animals mightdates endorsed by the IRP had be used in research, but ex­won 34 of 79 districts, and plained the the Lobund Labora­supporters of Bani-Sadr had tory would be the logical sitewon 16, with other seats going for most sophisticated experi­Wo be or not to

to independents and candidates of minor parties. In districts mentation. 
involved with . GOODYEAR AEROSPACE
where no candidate wins a Rumors concerning the majority, a runoff between the cadavers are apparently wide­the 1 with the blimps... top two candidates will be held spread in Stanford. 
Paul Somekofski said that

April 4. Since election day there have he, too, had been told that Opp4)rfunities for you now 
there were dead bodies in thebeen persistent complaints of basement but that he had not to be involved with:fraud. Some of the latest 

=-­

* Digital Technology I 
(Prrallet ::­• • • Computers Processors) ! 
[continued from page 1] which is high on the list of * Correllation Guidance -I Systems Soviet priorities, the admin­
(Radar, Optical, Infrared)
departments of Commerce, istration officials said. State and Defense with assist­It also could create problems 
* Flight Simulators 
ance from White House staff -for some American industries, could be a blow not only to which have millions of dollars Soviet military development ofsales on the line. Some U.S. * Aircraft Wheels and Brakes but also to industrial growth, manufacturers have argued 
that toughening trade policy could hurt the United StatesECDC more than the Soviet Union If you are about to br endowed because many of the products are available elsewhere. with an EE, ME, or ComSci degree 
-

The Soviets last year pur­~-­
to offer 
chased some $3.4 billion worth 

of U.S. goods, about three­If you want to hr at the state-of­q~arrers of them agricultural. 
the-art with a leader in the

day camp 
H1gh-technology items accounted for one-third of aerospace industry The Early Childhood Devel­manufactured-goods exports of opment Center at Saint Mary's $600 million. 
is

will once again offer a day ,.~~..............................................., You-r resume to hr sent to: 
camp program this summer. This recreational program is E. l. .Searle designed for children of the 
Goodyear Aerospace Corporation
Notre Dame-Saint Mary's com­IHappy Easter -' 
I 

munity from ages 3 ro 5 and 6 Akroln, Ohio 44315 to 9. Both full rime and part 
~ in the

time enrollment schedules are available. Call Terri Kosik. the director, at 284-4150 or I Observer 291-3875 to receive information 
.. on registration. i classifieds ~ · 

~························································...i· 
·---------------------­





Editorials 
Sweeney /McCarthy /Stoll: 
Experienced and dynamic 
. By a unanimous decision, The Observer endorses the. ucket of Kathleen_ Sween_eyIJoan_ McCarthyI Nini Stoll for S':'Jdent B~y Pres1dent/V1ce-Pres1dent of Academic Affairs/ Vrce-Presrdent o~ Studen~ Affairs in Thursday's student govern!Tient elecuons at Samt Mary's. The Sweeney ticket is dynamrc and experienced. Their rdeas are well-researched practical and feasible, and would do much to improve studen; 
welfareat Saint Mary's. 

Moreover, the Sweeney ticket understands the role student government leaders must assume as representatives of the students to the Administration. The Sue Scheiber/ Bernie Calarco/ Marie Liz Hackl ticket, on the other hand seems w lack perception of the responsibility of studen; leaders as liaisons between the student body and the Administration. 
We a~~ impressed by t~e Sweeney ticket's emphasis on the_ posltlve aspects of Samt Mary's as an independent enuty,_rather than a branch of Notre Dame. They express a wrllmgness to work with the Notre Dame student gove~nment in c<>?rdinating events and avoiding calendar conflrcts, but therr platform stresses the needs of Saint Mary's as a separate institution. 
While the Scheiber ticket also pledges to reinforce student !oyalty and pride. in. Saint_ Mary's, they have few concrete 1~eas for accomphshmg th1s abstract goal. Their platform _rs not as well researched as Sweeney's and many of their rdeas are somewhat trivial. 
The Observer believes that Saint Mary's needs energetic student leaders who ~re capable of making themselves heard.. The Sweeney ticket offers know-how and d~drcauo~. Sweeney's experic;nce ~n her current position as yrce-Presrdent of Student Affarrs wrll be helpful to the ticket, msof~r. as s~e has "learned the ropes" of working with the Admmistrauon, and has proven successful in coordinating such events as the recent Women's Opportunity Week. 
We_ support the SYfee':ey ticket because we believe they can rml?lement their Ideas and provide much-needed leadership for an often-apathetic Saint Mary's student body. 

DOOIBSBUBY 
. fJ(j Gld'fe«~­
rM SO/?RY, SIR, CAN Y()(J GeT BUT MR. ANJJt:R-M& A STAT!;­SON JU5TWENT M/3NT, 71/&N? (JfT FOR HIS HIS REACTION 
SIAJ/M. ' TO 7H& PRI-
MAR.Yr 
f.IXX(, KIP, PO 
HOW A/J(}{}T IF I 
twi/LP
f£T BACK 70 'tW
)QIIUANT 71113 
fT86AN
INJ< OR Nf]T? I 
WfTH A FI?&SH 
&XCJJJSIVU

60TTA File BY 
EM&R.Sa-1 (lKJTC? 
3:30! 
/
/ 
" 

-The Observer 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
-----------------------...., 
Wednesday, March 19, 1980 -page 6 

P. 0. Box Q 

Women's basketball deserves support 
Dear Editor: 
Never have I been so capti­
vated by an athletic team-­
college or professional--as I 
have by the Notre Dame wo­
men's bask(:tball team. Their 
enthusiasm and determination 
is what sportsmanship is all 
about, and I think we can all 
take a lesson from it. 
I hate to imagine how many 
N.D. students never saw the team play this season. And I'd hate to hear their resons for it: 
"it's boring," "girls can't play basketball," and "they don't need my support." None of these is true, and to say that ~hey are merely reflects one's Ignorance of women's basket­ball. 
So another season has passed... wait a minute this
. . ' 
wasn t JUSt another season! 
N.D. won the Indiana State Championship and was chosen to participate in the national tournament--it was far from just another season. And yet with this exceptional play, only a handful of fans bothered to show up at the games. Even the crowd at the State Finals-­held right across the street at St.Mary's--was sparse. 
It's a long way to next season. But let's hope the enthusiasm generated by these women filters down to .the rest of the student body, and when the season begins anew next year, let's get out there and show our appreciation. 
Pete Cuozzo 


Phillips'art inappropriate forSLF 
Dear Editor: 
In the Friday, March 7 
Observer, the chairman of the 
Sophomore Literary Festival 
was quoted in the following 
manner: 
"We (the committee) did not have exorbitant amounts of money to play around with. Instead, we decided to contact people who we felt were bla­zing ne~ trails in every phase of the hterary genre. " 

Mter listening to Ms. ) ayne Anne Phillips March 11 tt was quite obvious that the ~ommit­tee did not have much money to spend. But to claim that Ms. Phillips is "blazing new t~ails" in any phase of the literary genre would be insult­ing to many in the audience ~ho suffc:;red through oral mterpretatrons of her "art." 
The opening phase of Ms. ~hillips' reading was interest­mg for her use of simple sentence structures and coHo­quialisms. Unfortunately, the aut~or soon regressed to a ser~es of bombastic vulgarities whrch smothered what little artistic value there may have been in her stories. 
I.am sure some I?e?ple truly beheve that Ms. Phtlhps makes profound statements in such short stories as "Home" and "Lechery." Personally, I find such a view superficial and pretentious. If there is sub­stantial content in Ms. Phillips' work, it is buried beneath the promiscuities,_ profanities, and lc:;wdness whtch pervade her vrgnettes. 
Ms. Phillips does not dc;serve the opportunity to appear at a festival with such true artists as ] ohn Barth and ] ohn Cag~. Am I advo~ating censureship? No. I sunply believe thrs author's "style" was inappropriate for a school that professes to be steeped in Christian tradition. In the future, I sincerely hope the Sophomore Literary Festival can present some quality art­ists--despite the lack of funds. 
Patrick T. Mulligan 

No 'minor' varsity sportsatND 
Dear Editor: 
After witnessing several weeks of battling opinions con­cerning the athletic department at Notre Dame, I feel compelled to voice myself on the short­comings that this paper and the students have been dealing to the sports program. It has been my observation that student reaction to the possible demise ofathletics on campus has been blown a little out of proportion. 
Don_'t get me wrong. A strong reaction to show support is absolutely necessary. How­ever, it appears that in the demonstation of support some people have actually gone a little too far and are now showing the Administration just cause for discontinuation of some of the programs. The Observer is a prime example. 
During this critical period of decision, every sports event should have been glorified to its fullest. Publicity can be a great ~trength for nurturing an opin· Ion. But the only opinion nurtured thus far is that the athletic program at Notre Dame has only "minor spons." 
There are no mmor varsity sports at Notre Dame. Any women's basketball team that ~oes to the. top 16 in the nation Is not a mmor program. Any women's swimming team that boasts four All-Americans is not a minor program. A hockey ~earn that_skates to the top eight m the natwn and places frfth in the WCHA is not a minor program. And there is no fencing team in the nation that can "fmish a dismal eighth" (reference to the fencing arti­cle, page 6 on March 17) in the nation and be a minor sports program. That article was one ?f the wo;st pieces of journal­Ism that I ve read. The fencing team did not even rate a recap of their very fine season--a season that can boast ofa better record than any other sport this academic year and that exten­ded a winning streak to 122 oyer a five year period by being mpped by number one-ranked Wayne State. The women's basketball team only rated a one paragraph season recap. The list can go on. 
This kind of treatment is hardly what is deserved from people who openly voice sup­port for the minor sports teams. The University surely treats the te~~s better and has a greater opmion of them than is being demonstrated by The Observer or those who cry ''Save 'minor' sports.'' 
I sincerely believe that all who are involved in this debate should reevaluate their motives and their methods of achieving them. On both sides of the issue, it will require respect for the individuals and groups in­volved which should be bal­anced by the practicalities of the situation. 
CarlP. Aumen 


Groups conduct registration drive 
Dear Editor: 
Barring u~foreseen difficul­ties with th~ St. Joseph County Voter Registration Board, a number of groups, including the Young Democrats, Student Government, the Government Honor Society and others, will be ~ospon~oring a voter regis­tration dnve on campus this week. Registration will take place in the dining halls, dorms and at a desk in the library. This registration drive provides a perfect opportunity for stu­de~t~ to translate their political activism, so apparent at rhe recent Mock Convention, into concrete political action. 
I would encourage all stu­dents to register and vote in both the May primaries and next fall's general elections. In this way, they can have a significant impact upon and voice in both state and local politics--politics that have a ~ignifi~ant impact upon the way m which they live their lives here at Notre Dame and in South Bend. 
Finally, I would add that this is a non-partisan voter registra­tion drive aimed at strengthen­ing_ ~tudent impact upon local polrttcs, not at benefitting the loca~ Democratic or Republican parties. 
john A. Cooney President Pi Sigma Alpha 

administration of either institution. Ed ia1
o 

The n~ws_ is reponed as accurately and ttor 0 Board and Department Managers as obJecnvely a~ possible. Editorials Editor-in-chie[ ........Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ..................Mark Perry represe!Jf t~e opmion of ~ majority of Managing Editor.......... Diane Wilson Features Editor ... .. Kathleen Connelly the Edttonal Board. Commentaries Editona/ Editor............. .Ann Gales Photo Edt lor .............. Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor........ .M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail-E)r:eculive News Editor ...... M1"ke Lewt·s B · M 
newspaper published by the students able to all members of t_he community, pusd.mess Manager....... .Steve Odland
ofthe University of Notre Dame du lac d h c NewJ· Editor.................... Mark Rust ro uctzon anager .... .]ohn McGrath 
an_ . t e rree expressiOn of varying News Edzlor M 'k Sh. !d A J · · M
2od Saim Ma~'s Coli-g-. It d,_s not h h ...... ··········· t e Ie s avertzsmg anager .... .M. Holsinger 
.. .. "" opmions on campus, t roug 1etters is SMC "' r::t~.· M · B ·1 c " 
'1CCi~S<,aci~;·, re ect the policies, qf the encouraged. ' .. ,.e.ws. ."" aor...... ... . argte rassi ontro~~~r................. .Kevin Manion 
..---~·.-------------~~--------~----------------------~~~~'.~.~.~.~.~·.~·.~·.~·-~·.~·.~·-~--~----------~------~C::~rc:u:l.:al:z:on~A4::a:n:qg~er~.~--~-~--~G:r~e!g~H~ed~g~e:s:_ 
The Observer -Editorials 

The kegproposal 




An issue ofpersonalities 
.Micke:Y Turzai 
As a member of this year's CLC, I would like to guidelines could have been taken care of two offer this campus the recent history of the CLC's weeks earlier. His argument is a matter of "keg proposal." I firmly believe that the issue technicality. Fr. Van Wolvlear knew the party is a symbolic one, but it is also an issue of policy recommendations in and out two weeks personalities. I feel that this campus has a right before Prof. Eagan ever looked at them. to know where the individual personalities stand The second keg proposal failed on March 10 and what roles they have played. with eleven in favor of it, six opposed, one 
At our first meeting this year, the CLC voted abstained ana one absent. All students voted for on the "keg proposal." I thought that the the proposal, along with Fr. Conyers and arguments rationally supported such a proposal. Brother Burke. Fr. Porterfield opposed the The CLC voted on tt and the resolution passed "keg proposal" because he felt it necessary to with the necessary two-thirds approval. All represent the other South Quad rectors who put 
the students voted affirmatively as did the three him into office. I, then, asked Prof. Eagan who male rectors, including Fr. Porterfield, and Prof. also opposed the proposal, if he felt he Anne LaCombe (who has since been absent). represented the majority of the faculty mem­
bers. He said obvtously not. One question, In .o_ur discussions one major point of therefore, is who or what do ~each of the opposttton came up: kegs would increase members really represent? And, what does it alcohol abuse on campus. I do not feel that mean to be a representative? I suggest to Father anyone who proposed this argument ever clearly Porterfield that all members are chosen because substantiated why this would be so--and I others respect them as people, believin~ that re~ain skeptical of such a rash generalization. they will act responsibly, according to thetr own Motra Baker, rector of Lewis, did bring up one consciences. (And, if the other two South Quad other point: she spoke against kegs because of rectors were also representing those rectors the legal responsibilities involved. Ms. Baker opposed to the keg proposal, who represented felt that the proposal, especially since she is not those Sowth Quad rectors in favor of such a a religious or C.S.C., made her especially proposal, of which there are some?) vulnerable legally. This appears to be a very Sr. Kathleen Rossman, rector of Walsh, personal, not very responsible or rerresentative Stated that she wanted tO VOte immediately on stance. (I cannot see how her lega position as the proposal because we had discussed the issue recto~ changes in accordance with a change in enough and everybody knew how she would contatners.) vote--against it. However, not one truly cogent 
argument contradicted any of Paul Riehle's 
;\t the next meeting, Fr. Van Wolvlear arguments for passing the proposal. Dean rejected the keg proposal on the grounds that it Roemer voted against it as he votes :against most was an experiment. At the time, the University all proposals. 
was in the midst of one experiment, his letter When the resolution failed this second time, I explained, the experiment of the dorm party was certainly hurt--as I believe most of the othc~ rooms. He did not see it as "reasonable" to students on the CLC were. It:s obvious to me conduct two experiments at the same time. that these people never really listen to the 
However, the letter stated, "similarly, a 'keg students. 
policy' could help us to promote responsible or The keg resolution stated "that ~each hall be Irresponsible drinking.'' Only its implementa-permitted to determine its own policy relative to tion as an experiment would be able to verify the use of kegs in and only in the 'party' this--and such an experiment would be given a rooms." By passing such a resolution, the CLC chance at a more SUitable time. would Still give each rector the rrerogative tO not 
This semester, the CLC has had difficulty in have kegs in his or her dorm, i that rector, staff 
even establishins a quorom--though most stu-and hall council felt that kegswereunsuitable for 
dent representatives were there all the time. their hall. Three chronic absentees were Ms. Moira Baker, I believe the real reason some rectors, Prof. Eagan and Prof. LaCombe, none of whom especially the women rectors,. will not support were at two meetings to discuss the party policy this resolution is that these :rectors feel recommendations. At these two meetings, the threatened. Their students will know who to other members of the CLC regarded the party deal with on this situation: the rector and not pol~cy as a "success" and suggested a few some abstract Administration who nobody ever revisions. has any contact with. If these students present 
wa~tr~s:~rci~~J ~ ~~~f~ng;~~~ ·~~~g~~~p~s:~~ be~:~~t:~f~~;~~~~tkff~l~:r~ict~~;~;:~~~ 
Baker did attend this meeting. Prof. Easan, economical, safer, cleaner, better tasting--and without knowing anything about the prevtous allow for better control of a party), certain two discussions on the party policy recommen-rectors feel they wouldn't be able to back down. clarions, said he could not vote for the keg By passing on the buck, they have one less proposal because of an inconsistency. The CLC responsibility to worry about. was submitting both the party policy recommen-What really upsets me is that several rectors darions (which said in point no. 5, "Kegs are haye ~een able to completely circumvent any :1ever permitted under any circumstances in the gmdelmes and get approval for hall parties with 
.dis or elsewhere on campus.") and the "keg alcohol flowing freely throughout the halis. .'r()posal." Technically, the CLC would be Somewhere, someone is listening to these submitting two opposing_ points at the same rectors who is not on the CLC, and where that 

tli!t'fa.;cc~p1:·~.;•·· .. ·. ~p4nficoot.tmp ...~oa.~lld~w~t.rl£1:~aes~ ~hu.·.~.
•.Jrrl.•ese~,uow/e~c

ito .. . h .· · ak. mans, inakee.r.tors of judgr ·ent ~ithm th~ and fall short of perfect ( )in­
his decisions pliance with the standards. But I as long as we remember •hatt~~i\b';o;~l these divinely·ordained pr nci­
-

crisis of what come to be pies are eternal and will not known as "the .new morality'' change with next week's p blic ti•.s not so much in the fact that opinion polls, we will have the more people are deviating from' hope and the courage tc try the accepted moral standards again. -­
-!me. However, if we would have had a quorum someone should be lis tenting, no one doe::... 
h p -tw rina th ty l' I wonder. if the CLC has any role at ·alL . (a dangerous trend to be sure), Madonna]. Chnste ·s(fn 
.
' 

. r ~ .revto~s o mee .,s•... e par po tcy , . , . . . . . . . . . . . . but in the refusal by many to 
.................................'m+e~~.m~·~n~&~¥-~i·~-e~·~+ME•s~E--•~·~•~wa~-b~AY~·w~ra~EN~'~"~§a~x~w~&rM•us~--~.a~-4~~~·~·os~·~-msne~g-~na;wggcaama~~~~--~--~'~&~a~=•~&£-~&mik~ZW~-Am«g•ae~e+~&E+F+FSE-..-.~ 


Features Wednesday, March 19, 1980 -page 8 


Jack Daniel's Band. Revives 1890's 
The anginal jack Daniel's Silver Cornet Band 
New Keenan Revue Enjoys Old Success 
their fine barber shop singing. unique. As these frustrated males 
While some of the appearance will pointed out, even when they call a he remembered for their professional ~irl to ask her out, they risk being quality, many will be recalled for mformed that she's cramming for their sarcastic, yet poignant jabs at finals. In March?f life under the Golden Dome. Little On the serious side, the "New was left sacred --the dining hall, Keenan Revue" boasted a wide South Bend, Indiana, academics, variety of outstanding talent. The even the situation in Iran. The Keenan Octet and A Half provided Fathers Hesburgh, Conyers and traditional selections, including "The Griffin received their due as well. Belles of Saint Mary's" and "Notre 
-
.. 
Some Keenan seniors depicted 
their fears of graduation in the skit 
entitled "Senior Skit-Graduation 
Blues." What will they do, "If we 
graduate?" 

The Notre Dating Game" attempt­
ed to find a date for an eligible Notre 
Dame bachelor. Date num~er. one 
was a Notre Dame pre-med with a 
3.94 GPA and little else. Date number rwo, Mary Monogram, was from Saint Mary's. Date number three was a Bee who enjoyed honey and a good BUZZ. Ima Willing, the Ball Stare cheer leader, was date nurnber four. Which would you choose( Seems our typical Notre Dame male was left with option number three. · 
By far the most popular act of the evening posed the question, "Date? \\-'hat's a Date)" These Keenan 
.residents objectively looked at the social situation at Norre Dame and came to some startling conclusions. 
Dame, our Mother." Hans Hoerde­mann's performance of selections from "Cabaret" was particularly noteworthy. Hoerdemann presented a striking adaptation of the famous Joel Gray role. In addition, the directors of the Revue each demon­strated their talents; Jim Lloyd singing "If Ever I Should Leave You" and "Have Some Maderia, M' dear" by Jim Buzard. 
Throughout the evening, the musicalaccompanimentwas provided by the always excellent stage band, under the direction of Keenan resi­dent, Bryan Carlin. 
"We've got a bunch of guys back here who've been working on some-thi~g. Th~y're not really very good," quipped J1m Lloyd when introducing the Revue. When the curtain fell signalling the close of the fourth Kee~an Rev~ew. ir w~s clear that ~b~ audience firmly disagreed w·~n Lloyd's understatement. 

_!h_e_ .~at~n-~ _:i~U.~~!~~ .~~.r;_ !:~ ~U.~-~ ·-~~. -·· .M~EllenWoods 
The Observer Wednesday, March 19, 1980 -page 9 
Lugar urges Carter to sanction Iran 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A Re­publican member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, saying Iran has declared war on the United States by holding Americans hostase, is urging the Carter admmistration to begin preparing for a possible naval blockade and mming of Iranian harbors. 
Sen. Richard Lusar, R-Ind., charging that Preside~t. Carter has bungled the cnsis, also urged that all Iranian diplomats in the United States be.detained until the 50 hostages are freed. 
''This is an appropriate time for those of us who bear even a small ~onion of continuing responsibility for the foreign policy of this country to speak out constructively ... ,'' Lugar said in a speech prepared for delivery to the Senate today. 
"I have concluded that if our president is not stimulated to adopt a strong and bold course, and the government of Iran is not stimulated to recalculate the relative advantages and disadvantages of kidnapping diplomatic personnel and com­mitting aggression a~ainst the sovereignty of the Umted States of America, the hostages may never be freed,'' he added. 
Lugar said Carter should im­mediately and totally suspend trade with Iran; end any inquiry into alleged crimes commmed during the regime of the de­posed Shah Reza Mohammed Pahlavi, and seize the Iranian government's assets held in this country. 
The senator said that money, estimated at $4 billion to $6 billion, should be set aside to finance military preparations required for releasmg the hos­ta~es, to pay U.S. claims a­gamst the Tehran governm~nt, and compensate the capuves and their families. 
Lugar said Carter, in failing to win release of the hostages, has "simply been hoping for good luck and this country has hoped for good luck along with him. Now we must try to construct circumstances that make good fortune much mor.e probable and that repair a portion of athe damage to our national credibil­ity." 
He said the actions of the 
Iranian government, in sanc­
tionins holding of the hostages 
by militants, "m effect declared 
war on the United States of 
America.'' 
His statement urged Carter 
''to enter into immediate con-
Pistol Pete paces Celtics 
HARTFORD, Conn. (AP) ­Pete Maravich, in unusually fine form, scored 31 points as the Boston Celtics defeated the Indiana Pacers 114-102 in a National Basketball Association game last night. 
Maravich scored 21 of his 
points in the first half, helping 
the Celtics take an 11-point 
lead at the end of two quarters. 
But Indiana turned the 
tables briefly in the second 
half, partly on 10/oints from 
Mike Bantom, an drew to a 
four-point advantage at the end 
of the third period. 
The Celtics regained the lead 
near the end of the fourth 
quarter, takin~ adva~tage of 
numerous Indtana mtstakes. 
The Pacers lost their poise, 
taking long shots in an effort to 
catch up. 
The game was played at the 
Hartford Civic Center. 
0 

' 0 ll •• O. ll.. t 0 0' 0 A 0 • t
'0. 

t: It Itt fIt t f t t t I I I o 
J'.' I'' 

sultation with our allies about preparations for an effective naval blockade of Iran and plans for effective mining of Iranian harbors with mines that could be retrieved after release of the hostages. 

BostonOub to sponsor bus home 
The Boston Club is sponsor­ing a bus to Boston for spring break. The cost is $82, and it includes refreshment oriboard. For more informationcontact Jim Goblin at 1528 for reserva­tions. 

Brooksdelayspo~ssibilities ofpro basketball . .. 
NEW YORK (AP) -Rangy Michael Brooks of La Salle University, named by coaches the collegiate baEketball player of the season, said yesterday he is in no hurry to contem­plate a ·lucrative professional career. 
"No, I haven't hired an agent, I am not thinking in that directi(•n at the moment," said the 6-foot-7 lfz inch, 221-pound senior forward after receiving his trophy at a midtown restau­rant. 
"My plans now are to keep in shaJ?e and try to make the Olympic team, if there is an Olympic team, or play in whatever event that is substi­tuted in case of a Moscow boycott. 
"I plan to bide my time." Brooks received the Eastman Award, succeeding Larry Bird of Indiana State as th'e 1980 choice of the National Associa­tion of Basketball Coaches. 
Winners, prior to Bird start­ing in 1975, were David Thompson, Scott May, Marques Johnson and Phil Ford. 
Brooks acknowledged that he had not thought 'much about which professional team he would most prefer_ to join. 
"It's not my decision -it depends on the draft," he said. "However, I hope it's in the warm climate. I don't like the cold." 
A surprise pick, the Phila-


Sports Briefs 
Tennis team hosts Cincinnati 
The Notre Dame tennis team sporting a 3-2 rc~cord, plays host to Cincinnati this afternoon at the Courtney tennis center behind the ACC, weather permitting. If the match cannot be held outside bec~use of the weather, it will be moved inside the ACC. Stahing time for the action is 3:00 p.m. 

Howard and Grace square off 
Defending champion Howard will meet Grac<~ tonight at 
7:00 p.m. in the ACC pit in the championship round of interhall basketball. In the double elimination tournament, Grace already has one defeat. If Grace should win tonight, the deciding game will be played Sunday. 
Women's softball meeting 
. 

Thefe will be general meeting Thursday for all Notre D~e women interested in playing f~tpitch softball. The meeung will be held at 6: 30 p.m. 1n the Little Theater ofLa.Fortune. If you cannot attend the meeting call Karen at 1258. 


Soccer and softball rosters due 
Team rosters for both intethall soccer and 12" softball must be submitted to the interhall office by 5:00p.m. today. No entry fee for softball is required and each roster must have at least 12 players. Any questions re~arding interhall softball should be directed to Jack Selvagg10 at 1601. 

O'Leary looks for lacrosse refs 
Rich O'Leary of club sports is looking for people interested in refereeing lacrosse this spring. Any prospective officials should contact O'Leary at 2101. 
. ................. . 

delphia native needed to make no apologies about his worthi­ness. His statistics are im-­presstve. 
He scored a career total of 2,628 points, averaging 23 points a game, ~nd hauled _in 1,372 rebounds, making h1m one of the few players in National . Collegiate Athletic Association history to reach 4,000 in combined points and rebounds. 
Brooks ~. eaded the coaches' 1979-80 All-Star team which als9 included Mark Aguirre, DePaul University, Kyle ~1acy, Kentucky, Darrell Gnffith, Louisiana, and Joe Barry Carroll, Purdue. 

_..andjoins Woodson as all-star 
WICHITA, Kan. (AP) -Carolina forward Mike 
Indiana's Mike Woodson led O'Koren, LaSalle forward the nation in balloting for the Michael Brooks, North ninth annual all-star college Carolina State forward basketball game and will play Hawkeye Whitney and Ohio for the East squad in the game State guard Kelvin Ransey. 
later this month in Las Vegas. Vandewcghe's West squad 
Kiki Vrndeweghe of UCLA will include: Minnesota center led voting for the West squad. Kevin McHale, Iowa guard The top eight in balioting for Ronnie Lester, Texas guard 
each squad will play in the Ron Baxter, Ural Roberts for­nationally televised contest ward Calvin Garrett, Washing­March 29. Two other positions ron State forward Don Collins, 
on each team will be filled by Missouri guard Larry Drew and at-large selectioms ro be an-­Idaho guard Don Newman. nounced larer. DePaul Coach Ray Meyer 
Joining W0odson for the will head the East squad and East squad will be: Kentucky Long Beach State Coach Tex guard Kyle Macy, Louisville Winter will head the West. guard Darrell Griffith, Purdue The game is sponsored by centerJoe Barry Carroll, North Pizza Hut. 

ATTENTION SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING MAJORS! 

The Air Force has openings for young men and women majoring in selected science and engineering fields. Like Aeronautical. Aerospace . General and Electrical Engineering. Mathematics. Physics and Com· puter Technology. 
To help prepare for one of these. Air Force ROTC offers two and four-year programs of study which will defray some of your college costs. 
After completion of the AFROTC requirement. and upon your grad· uation, you11 be commissioned an officer in the Air Force. Then comes responsibility. experience in your specialty with some of the best pea· pie and facilities in the world. and a mission with a purpose. Youll get excellent starting salary. medical and dental care. 30 days of paid va· cation beginning your first year. and more. 
Look into the Air Force ROTC program right away. See what's in it for you. See how you can serve your country in return. Youll be glad you put vour major to work on a joh that reallv C< •unts. 

For additional information call CPT Davis at 283-6634 
,,,,~,~·-~···'"'""""~ ... ~ ........... , 
-
j 
~ 
1 
l 

1 
,~ 
I 

! 
'
1

, 
~ 
! 
I I 

,I 1 
I 



The Observer -Sports Wednesday, March 19, 1980 -page 10 



Gophers and Virginia battle for NIT 
crow-n 
NEW YORK (AP) -The Big Ten Conference isn't just for big, brawny football players anymore; it's also for big basketball stars. Like the big timber that plays for Minne­sota, which will battle Virginia tonight in the finals of the 43rd ~National Invitation Tourna­
ment. 
In the past few years, while 
the Big Ten's football image 
has been tarnished by repeated 
losses in the Rose Bowl, the 
conference has been building 
its basketball reputation. 
"We got three of the final six this year and last year," said Minnesota Coach Jim Dutcher, referring to Purdue and Iowa as Final Four survi­vors in the NCAA Tournament this year, along with Minne­sota m the NIT. 

The Gophers finished in a fourth-place tie with Iowa with 10-8 Big Ten records, one game behind Purdue's 11-7 conference mark. Indiana and Ohio State also received NCAA bids, while Michigan, Illinois and Minnesota were picked by the NIT. 
"But the successes haven't been just of recent origin, only the recognition has,'' said Dutcher, ticking off NCAA finalists Michigan State, Indiana and Michigan since 1976. "Tough interconference play against good teams hardens you.'' 
And pro scouts have con­curred that Big Ten basketball isn't just the football off-season any longer. For the past four years, the No. 1 pick in the National Basketball Association draft has come from the Big Ten -Scott May of NCAA champion In<!iana in 1976, Kent Benson of Indiana in 1977, Mychal Thompson of Minnesota in 1978 and Earvin Johnson of NCAA tidist 
Michigan State in 1979. 
"And ifJoe Barry Carroll (of Purdue) goes first this year, it will make five," said Dutcher. 
Dutcher has a blue-chipper of his own. Center Kevin McHale has first-round draft pick stamped all over him. The 6-foot-11 senior led the 21-10 Gophers in points (17. 7) and rebounds (8.9). He normally ~uards the oppositions's top mside threat. "He's our defensive stopper,'' said Dutcher, who shared a press conference podium with Virginia Coach Terry Holland. 
Dutcher indicated McHale would be keying on Ralph Sampson, Virginia's 7-4 fresh­man sensation who scored 26 points, picked off 15 rebounds and blocked four shots Monday night in the Cavaliers' 90-71 semifinal rout of Nevada-Las Vegas. 
"We'll try to keep the ball away from Sampson," said Dutcher. "We'll try to prevent him. from S~ttin~ into choice sconng position. 
Sampson, who is expected to return to Virginia and not turn pro, has exceeded Holland's expectations. ''Early in the season, he didn't concern him­self with offense so much. He knew he could score, so he worked on his defense and shot-blocking -and it shows now,'' Holland said. 

' 
I I 
~ 
I I 
~ 
I
' 
I 
J 
~ 
I 
J 
I 
J 
I I I 
I 
~ 
' 
lVlolarity 
The Daily Crossword 
© 1980 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Svnd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

BREAK TIME DIRECT O'HARE $15 EXPRESS $15 from NOTREDAMECIRCLE 
depart 4pm arrive 5:30 pm
March27 
lOam 11:30am


March28 
lpm 2:30 ~,n 


3/19/80 


by Michael Molinelli 



UCLA,Boilers meet Saturday 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) The last time Purdue played UCLA in the NCAA basketball tour­nament was in 1969, when giant Lew Alcindor led the 
Bruins  to  a  20-point  victory  
over  the  Boilermakers  in  the  
championship game.  

This time, it's Purdue with the sky-scraring 7 -foot-1 Joe Barry Carrol . And that could mean the difference, says Pur­due assistant -coach Billy Kel­ler, a member of the Boiler­makers' 1969 runnerup team. 
"We didn't have the big man in the middle,'' recalled Keller, who /'oined Coach Lee Rose's staff ast fall after playing eight years with the Indiana Pacers and coaching a high school girls' team one season. 
"Chuck Bavis (a 7-foot center) dislocated his shoulder. I fell on my knee and l was kind of struggling from that point on,'' said Keller. "I don't think we necessarily feared facing Lew. We thought of how we had come in other games (against UCLA). But it was one of those nights where the ball would not go in." 
Purdue's main weapon 11 years ago was high-sconng Rick Mount, Keller's running mate at guard who rifled in 36 points in a semifinal victory over North Carolina. Against the Bruins, he hit his first two shots, then missed 14 in a row before warming to finish with 28. 
"I had the shots," recalls Mount, who played pro ball several years and now operates a gun shop on the north side of Indianapolis. ''I had five or six go in and out. If you stop shooting, you're in trouble. My shooting got us there and I wasn't going to stop." 
Alcindor, now known as Ka­reem Abdul-) abbar, was un­stoppable against the Boiler­makers. He hit 15 of 20 shots from the field and seven of nine free throws for 3 7 points and pulled down 25 rebounds as UCLA easily won 92-72. 
''When I came off the picks Alcindor would flash up on me," Mount said. "I remem­ber going by him once and he kneed me. But he was so tall he didn't knee me in the le~ like most guys. He kneed me m the stomach.'' 
With the bulky Bavis side­lined, former Purdue Coach George King -now the athletic director -put Jerry Johnson on Jabbar, but he was no match for the UCLA mountain-man. 
''When we played them, we could have played the best in the world and still not have beaten UCLA,'' Mount said. "It was just Kareem. He was too big for Jerry. He'd just turn around and lay it in.'' 
5 
10 14 
15 
16 17 18 
19 20 
23 24 
27 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

ACROSS Atom or hydrogen November's jewel Dance garb Essayist's pseudonym Avoid skillfully Burden Ring a bell Respighi"s 
"-of Rome" Therefore Start of a 
proverb Assistant Fermenting 
agents Orange-red 
gems 
30 33 
34 
36 38 39 
40 
43 
44 46 47 
49 
51 
Boob Saltpeter Magician's 
word Speck Cut of meat 
Business 
abbr. Concerning 
geologic 
layers Hitter's 
statistics: 
abbr. Ceremony Label Oatmeal, 
for one "With-of 
thousands" Certain 
look-alike 

53 54 
56 
58 
64 66 67 68 69 70 
71 72 
73 
2 3 4 
5 6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
21 
Dipper Medieval weapons Soothing agent End of a proverb Give aid Audibly Malevolence Molding Book: Fr. Breathing sound Office VIP Yorkshire city Not gifted 
DOWN Letter on a key Swan genus Venus de-Romantic songs Lukewarm Sheep Sudden agony Fruit drinks Piquant Pedicure item Not fixed Haul Service-men's org. Rosters 22 
25 26 27 28 
29 
31 
32 
35 37 41 42 45 48 50 52 
55 57 59 
60 61 62 63 64 
65 
Wine: comb. form Of a clan Doddering Helical Medicine for sprains Geometrical figures 20A and 58A, for one Cook's need One-time Giant Nervous twitch Strike with knuckles Casals' instrument Goes over the wall Goats, at times Vietnam holiday Ludicrous Auxiliary verb Mountain range Writer Wiesel Gad about Ellipse Grain place Did in Fireplace attachment Self-esteem 
JUNIORS LASTCHANCE! LASTDAYTO SIGNUPFOR BOOKPORTRAITS WILL BE WEDNESDAY, MARCH19 

CALL35570RSTOP 
BY2CLAFORTUNENO 
THIS IS THE LASTCHANCE THIS YEAR 
:' i 
' 
1 
I 

The Observer -Sports Wednesday, March 19, 1980 -page 11 I
. . 
-! DURHAM, N.C. (AP) -athletic circles, has been head few days. "He has been my head coaching job at Duke, Army coach Mike Krzyzewski coach at the U.S. Military No. 1 choice and will be my long a basketball stalwart in
Duke names was named the head basketball Academy for five years, where No. 1 choice," Butters said. the Atlantic Coast Conference coach at Duke Universiry his Blach Knight teams have Butters added: ''For the and a recognized national Tuesday night as Blue Devil compiled a record of 73-59, sake of accuracy," the job had basketball power. 
Krzyzewski officiaL tagged him "the big­including three winning sea­not been offered to anyone Krzyzewski said -he was justbrightest young coaching talent sons. He had inherited an else. beginning the process of pick­in America." Army team that had been 3-22 Krzyzewski, who pronounces ing a staff at Duke but indicat­Krzyzewski, 33, succeeds before he went to \1G'est Point his name "kre-ches-skee," was· ed he would bring at least one


basketball 
Bill Foster, who resigned to in 1975. the unanimous choice of the of his assistants, 1974 Wake become head coach at South Duke Athletic Director Tom Duke selectiQO council. Forest graduate, Bob McQuire, coach Carolina. Butters told a news conference Krzyzewski admitted that he from West Point. He said Krzyzewski, somewhat of a that Krzyzewski had visited was surprised, but not shock­McQuire had filled him in on surprise in North Carolina Duke three times in the last ed, at being selected for the the history of ACC basketball. 
Classifieds  All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail.  

Any one needing a ride to umana over Easter. Mike 8232.Notices Need ride to D.C. area for break. Morrisey Loan Fund. Last day for Call Pete 2256. undergrads to apply is March 26. ---------------­Need ride to New Orleans for break. Call Rick 7695.Have typewriter -will type term -------------­papers, manuscripts, etc. 287-0892. Need ride to NYC, Conn. for break. Leave Wed. PM. Pay $40. Jay 8894.MORRISSEY LOAN FUND. All LOANS PREVIOUSLY DUE ON APRIL Wanted: Ride to/from N.Y.C. or7 WILL BE DUE ON APRIL 8. vicinity. Will share driving and $. Can leave after 2 P.M. on 3/26. Call TomWill do typing. Call:'287·5162. 1155.Neat, Accurate. Need riders to N.Y. Metro. LeavingTyping Plus. Term papers, theses, Monday, March 24. Curt, 234-0467.dissertations. Light editing, ghost writing. Literary search, genealogies, Need ride for 2 to Chicago Fridaybibliographies. Job resume service. afternoon 3/21. Call Jane 7933.Sliding rate scale based on lead time. Special discounts on full contracts for Need ride to Milwaukee, for break.theses· and dissertations. aardvark Can leave after 12:00 Thursday. Katieautomatic solutions/ p.o. box 1204 8142.46624/phone (219) 289·6753. Please help me get a tan in sunny Lauderdale. Can leave Thursday, 3/27 noon or after. Will share driving,Lost&Found expenses, and conversation. Beth 1344.Found: One male N.D. class ring '80 on North Quad. Call 7047 or 233·6370 Help!!! Need ride to Champaign orto identify. Ask for George. Charleston, fl. THIS weekend. Will share expenses. Call Darrell, 1779.Lost: 1 silver earring SM C Sat. night. Call 4611 at SMC. Need ride to Minnesota for break. Can leave early. 8268.Lost: Pair of Brown Suede gloves in room 110 of Hurley Bldg. on March 12. Call Brian 272-7684. Need ride to Pittsburgh for break. Can leave any time. Will share Lost: SMC class ring. SMM & BSN -expenses. Chris 3127. '81 on inside. Lost behind ACC. Call Sharon 4-1·4295. Need ride for two to Indianapolis, Cincinnati, or Oxford, OH. on Friday, Lost: One pair of dark men's sun· Saturday or Sunday March 21, 22, or glasses. I believe I lost them Sun. 23. Call Betsy 6359 or Mike 8635. March 9 in Post Office. Please call John 232·7725. Two wild Waish women need ride to Chicago Wednesday afternoon, the 26. Lost: Blue backpack with accounting Call 8008 Please! and chem. books In It taken from Dining Hall on Friday March 14. Call Help!! Am in dire need of ride to 1421. Boston for break. Can leave any time. Will s.hare. Fun guaranteed. Call Beth Lost: NO class ring. Engraved inside at 4-1-4140. MJK '81. Please call Mike 8436. Need ride to Florida for spring break. Will share expenses. Please call, Sara 7952.for Rent Need ride to Denver for spring break. Will share the usual. Call BobLarge 7 Bedroom, furnished house, ar 1682.available for rent starting fall classes. Excellent area close to campus. Some Need ride to Lauderdale the 26th.rooms available now. 289·6813 or Share expenses. Jackie 1362.289·5023. Need ride to Newark N.J. for spring break. Will share driving and ex·For Sale penses. Call Cori at 287·0289. 1975 VW Beetle like new, radio defrost Need ride to and from Miami lor and low mileage, regular gas. 2!!00 or spring break. Will share $. Please call best offer. Call after 7 277-0339. 233-2201 after 11 pm on. Technics 35-watt receiver $140, KLH Riders needed to Ft. Lauderdale. 300 speakers $80. Call John 1801. Leaving Buffalo 3/29, returning to N.D. 4/7. Call Mike 8783 or Ron 8482. Sony PS-11 00 direct-drive semi-auto turntable. Greg 1826. Need ride to Utica, NY (tJetween Syracuse and AltJany) for break. Call Got a blank space on your wall? Fill it Greg 1756. with color basketball action photos. All players, all sizes. Cheap. Not available Need ride to Tampa, Fla. for spring from Ronco or K-Tel. Call 8932. break. Will share driving and ex­penses. Please call Christian 272-7987. Kodac film for sale 35mm, 126, 110. Half price!! call 7704, 6614 Doug. Need ride to Minnesota for break. Can leave early. 8268. -----------~---­Remington SR 101 single element typewriter wide carriage: New, $700. Need ride to Pittsburgh. Can leave 233·6208. Thur. Ma,rch 27, 3:00 ·Matt 1612. 2 NCAA final-4 B. B. Tix for sale. Tim Riders wanted to Champaign (U of I) 3810. March 20. Call 41·51 03. Scintillating conversationalist needs ride to Canton, 0H. or gen. vicinity forWanted break. Can leave after Thurs. morning and will share usual. Joe 3598. Need ride to NYC for break. Call ----------------­Janet [SMC] 4700. Desparately need ride to Ft. Lauder­dale area for spring tJreak. Will share Need rides for 2 to lndian!polis diving and costs generously. Call Mar. 22 & 24. Kelly 3810. Steve 14?R Desparate! Need ride to Northern N.J. right off 1-80. Must leave Monday Personals  CBS Buddy-Remember, beware or sweaters bearing antlered animals on skates. Aim your arrows well and beat the curse. Get well soon. -A Buddy Anne-Since I'm under a lot of stress all I'll say is eat, drink ... and catch some sleep. #2 Jim "Chumpski" lor UMCIC. A Face you want to forget! To the Craz-ee: Don't worry about it .... Just burning a few bridges. Nobody Bobby Z, Happy Birthday Greeb. I love you! Can't wait for sitting on the floor and talking til dawn. . Love, Your Little Greeb Joe, Cheer up. Hope you get well soon! Love, Barb Jeremy, Congratulations on bein~l accepted at Newman! Knew you could do it! Love Ya. JJ Who is she this week, lover boy? E Who broke the pinball machine, exposed himself? Only the phantom knows John Solari­ls it true that you a) like a little bit of sauce with your spaghetti? tJ) get wildly inebriated and fall Into wardrobes? (next time we will pad is for you, OK?) c) put mascara on your moustache (was it waterproof or not?) d) and stay away from flaming shots of JD on your 21st birthday? (what a lightweight!) Happy Belated Birthday Mary N. Schneider will be the next president! She promises to convert Ted's office (and the rest of the dome) into Pfister Joe's bar so the whole university can come and d1rink green irishmen and Bailey's irish cream. Paid for by the committee to elect Mary N. Schneider. A non-profit ~~~~~...:_ __________ Vanna, Happy Birthday! With much Love, Your "Private sessions" mentor. Hey Fats: Happy belated birthday. Love, Quiche and all the friends of 802 Miner Happy 18th Birthday 101 the New Englander in Flanner who is entering a new chapter in his life as he becomes a midwesterner. From the cause of the change. Scholastic Meeting 6:30 Wod. All Ed. Board members and writers must attend. Important stu:fl. Open Stage at the NAZZ ·· Thursday 9·12. Everyone welcome! A preview of Collegiate Jaz.z Festival -the NO Jazz Combo at the NAZZ Wed. 10·11 :30 Pat Sheridan. We don't know of any wold activities or we would definitely put them in ... I You must tJe too busy keeping John out of trouble! Happy belated birthday to the St. Patrick's Day baby. At least you did flaming shots! What are you doing to me? No, what are you doing to me? But nllither of us ~~~~~~~~~~-----­For a better St. Mary's vote: Sweeney  Mr. Norberg: To the two Johns frurn Bradford,Friday night wa; just awesome but I thanks for all the help. The recordain't sayin' nothin'. wasn't too good, but the fun andSleepy memories were GREAT!! Love. Your TeamEngaged/married students; Natural Family Planning class offered on The Collegiate Jazz Festival-campus March 19th and March 26th • This Friday March 21, and SaturdaySign up Today. Campus Ministry March 22. Definitely to be the BESToffice, Memorial Library. 283·6536. ever. Tickets only $8.50. STUDENTS 7.50. What a deal!!!! Lost-Classring. Engraved MJK '81. If found please call Mike 8436. "Adam" Have a happy 21st! When can weHigh Dog Boot Hockey League celebrate it?Dinner Banquet Friday, March 21, "Eve"7:00 P.M. American Legion Pulaski Post. Call Perry, Tom or Nick at TO mary Beth and Sharon:233-5525 lor reservations. All fans, Sorry it's a little late. At least it's here.players, coaches and friends of Mutley Stop by some time when you're seeingthe Wonderdog are welcome. Dinner Mark, your Buddy.tix are $6.00. Vote lor three good characters. Let'sExperience is the Key make SMC ClickVote: We are committed, are you?Sweeney Vote ScheiberMcCarthy CalarcoStoll HacklThurs. March 20 to the 7DT florists Dave and Greg,Color basketball pictures still avail· Thanks for the flowers. I'm glad youable. Slam Dunks make great decor­consider me a friend.ations. Call 8932. Maureen SMC SENIORS Remember you can Mrs. Gagnon endorses Rob "Skates"vote: Gagnon lor UMOCSweeney McCarthy Chuck, your loyal roommates wish youStoll a Happy Birthday and hope you willThurs. March 20 continue to blossom forti!. Spot Supports -smash! Mr. Hands BB ISupports Mr. Bill for UMOC. I How is the flak lately? All quiets here.Dear Joe, BB IIHappy Birthday. Hope it's the greatest. Cheers, Happy Birthday, Vasy!!Connie From Junior and Janet Darlene Armstrong: President of the Cocoonheads:Why don't you drop that Refugee Happy Birthday, and may you soon(what nationality is he anyway?) · get emerge from your shell.Behind Blue Eyes. Your Fellow Cocoon heads · Rainbows S.A.S.,He's Unfriendly, Malicious, Ob­I'II keep writing these personalsnoxious, and Crass. Joe Traenar for until you get the courage to ask himUMOC. out! The same interested partySMC Off Campus Vote: Kevin,Sweeney The fan is excused on the groundsMcCarthy that you have a great time tonight ( ... Stoll and so much for a mushy personal).Thurs. March 20 Happy Birthday. Love. KateSuzanne Scheiber Bernie Calarco Goose, Barch, Zeloa and 0.Marie Liz Hackl Thanx for the awesome carnation.Notre Dame's choice for SMC Govern· It's good enough to mount ... on mymen!. Make it Yours. wall or something. Love, BillDear Joe, P.S. Hay, Barch, it was great!!!Happy 19th on the 19th. We'll all be thinking about you. Hope it's a good M.B.V.,one. Love: Mom, Dad, Mike, Dorothy, H.B.D. to a V.S.G. and the L. ofCatherine, Bobby, Danny, Mary, Will, M.L.and Frances. W.A.M.L E.E.MGregg Sobkowski· P.S. How's that kid?You good looking thing, don't you ever die. WANTED: IRISH BAND FOR AN TOSTAL FRIVOLITIES. IM­Howard Hall Party MEDIATELY CALL: KEVIN: 287-4635A Belated St. Patty's Day Party Friday MURPH 7821March 21. 9:00 pm. Knights of Columbus Hall. Refreshments and To Mr. Bob Well (the Valle):Dancing. All ladies of the ND-SMC We are pleased to make yourcommunity invited. distinguished acquaintance. Hope the feeling is mutual. Have fun with AngieTo the 926 Abusers: this weekend!Never before have an innocent The Women from Regina 2N group of boys been subject to such P.S. You really are getting moreattacks. We respectfully surrender. handsome by the minute IThanks for the night (atluse has never been such fun). Marketing Clubbers:Mule and the Boys. Vote Haggerty McEnteeHurry Girls· Rack'ishOnly 10 of the original 1000 mem­Tarulloberships to the ANDY KOLLITZ fan Today, March 19.club are still available. For more information call 317€ Mary Tonner­216 Regina N. An anonymous man will call to invite youMark Kirasich­to senior formal. .. keep your line open.when will you ever realize? '"Mary'H:Ut;;a;~;'d;;;;dtoTc;;;c71a~ Bob Senior, tion. What would thllrsday night be Welcome to Notre Dame, without the reality of Fernwood? Gordon E Panama Please, for the sake of Hartman freaks, 

McCarthy

or Tuesday (25th). Share usual. Call ~lp save the symbol o! American life. Pal,
NO Jazz Combo at the Nazz -10-11:30 Stoll
Mike at 7289. Call 8337. "Where's the peanut ILYM B, really! Yay, Be~ 122!
Tonight!!! ' Thurs. March 20 
butter?" < 
o. "' • to. • • •c• " ~ " • .. " "" .. ~ Jo.• ....... , ... -...... ~ ...........~~ .................... ".... 
C"

~ '-t.J..Lt.•ALLLI...L-&..oi..L&."LIAL-1..•.• I J 
• I J 1 I 1 o I • o I o • • • t I • I I 

Wednesday, March 19, 1980 -page 12 
After five years 




Sepeta resigns as -wrestling coach 
by Btil Marquard the regionals that year and a resignation could very well getSports Wn'ter 20th-place national ranking. back here to Notre Dame, and I He was accorded Midwest did not want anything to take 
A~ an informal post-season Regional Coach of the Year for the team's mind off of wrest!­meeting with hi> team yester­the third straight time. mg. " d,n afternoon, Notre Dame Sepeta has coached Irish 
Sepeta brought a wealth of
wrestling coact. Ray Sepeta standouts Bob Golic (All-Amer­
wrestling experience to Notre
aJ111'lunced his resignation from ican) and Dave DiSabito (all­
Dame. He was named "Out­
thai L·ar•acity effective at the time Notre Dame career win­
standing Wrestler" in the I964
end of this acad{ mic year, The ner), and the top eight 
Ohio AAU Championships, and
0/Jst:'n•ter learned. wrestlers in Irish mat annals 
went on to win three mono­
··I am steppmg down as have all wrestled · under his 
grams at West Point.

heao coach.·· Sepeata unex­direction. pecrt>dly wld a group of stunn­''Dean Hofman and I dis­"I really enjoyed coaching 
here at Notre Dame," smiled
ed wrestkrs in the ACC wrest­cussed the situation before the 
the veteran mentor. "Despite
ling room. season began in November, 
The major reason for and at that time a mutual some of the disappointments Sepera· s decision was the con­decision was made. The we have had, we do have a lot 
flier whilh coachin~ had with official announcement of potential. There will always 
came his job as an academic advisor today when I told the team and be Dave DiSabitos and Bob in the Freshman Year of delivered a letter to Athletic Golics around to make things NEW YORK (AP) In the first When Miller outlined that 
even more interesting. significant breakthrough and calling
Studies office. Director Moose Krause,'' re­I put after proposal another 
"Because of all the time lated Sepeta. all I could into this program, weeks of fruitless talks, major for compensation for free-agent involved in my job a~ a and I reall_y hope it pays off.'' league baseball owners with­signings to the executive board freshman year advisor, I feel Sepeta feels that the univers­drew their controversial salary of the players association 
scale proposal in negotiations earlier this month, that groupthat I cannot perform the ity should not have a big with the players association voted to authorize a strike on
wrestling job the way it should problem finding a successor to be done," explained a disap­the post. "There are many yesterday. or after Apri\ I. Subsequent 
votes by individual teams have

pointed Sepeta. ''In all fair­very qualified wrestling people Ray Grebey, chief negotia­ness ro the wrestlers and the around, and I am sure that tor for the owners, met for supported that position with 
only one player of the 12 teams

program, someone else should Notre Dame can find someone three and a half hours with take over rhe job.'' who will perform the job well." Marvin Miller, executive direc­polled opposing strike action. 
Sepeta joined the Irish Although his future is a "big tor of the players association, Grebey called the new coaching staff as an assistant question mark" at this point, in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and position ''the basis for settle­mat coach in I970 before Sepeta is as confident and announced the move that could ment," of the negotiations assuming the head coaching optimistic as he always is. open the way to a settlement of which have been going on for reigns in 197~. Sepeta's teams the conflict. some I6 weeks. ­
"I will be looking to other
have compiled a 33-53 dual programs where I can exercise The pay scale proposal, set­''In the total the clubs propo­meet record under his direction both my athletic and academic ting timits on salaries for the sals provide a firm and fairand he tutored two Notre Dame talents. I will evaluate the first six years of a player's basis for agreement,'' he said. 
squads which set successive opportunities in a couple of major league career, was a ''This is particularly true whenrecords of II and then I4 wins months and then make my major stumbling block in nego­consideration is g1ven to the10 one season. 
decision.'' tiations. other facts involved.
The 35-year-old Sepeta guid­ed his squad to the Indiana State tournament, Wheaton Invitational and National contacted any other coaches orf Catholic Invitational champion­universities. "I felt that if I 
CroUJley: last ofthefour horsetnen
ships in 1978, as well as an put out any feelers during the unexpected runner-up finish in season, then the news of my 
''Outlined against a blue-grey October sky, the Four Horsemen rode again ... " 
It would be nice if I could fool you into believing these words were my own, but any Notre Dame person worth his (used in the 
!Wviet Union refutes Western Frank 
plans of 'counter Olympics ' 
neuter, ladies) green jersey knows they came LaGrotta 
from the typewriter of Grantland Rice back in
Monday that Washington's
MOSCOW (AP)-Pravda 
I924. And he also knows these lines
anti-Olympic campaign was an
stated yesterday the Summer Yet Crowley maintains that their diminuitive
immortalized four of the most prolific football
"obvious example" of Ameri­
Olympics in Moscow will take size was the secret to their mammoth success. 
scheduled, can worldwide players ever to perform at Notre Dame.
place "as despite efforts to sow Elmer Laden. "Speed was the key," he emphasized. "Weconfusion.
the intrigues of the enemies of Don Miller. were a very fast backfield; faster than anyoneThe British House of Com­the Olympic movement.'' 
Jim Crowley. we played against, I can tell you that. Andmons voted overwhelmingly
The Communist Party news­Harry Stuhldreher. Rock had plays designed to take advanta~e of
Monday night against Britain 
·paper denounced Western The famed Four Horsemen backfield of that speed. We also had a great offensive line-­
going to the Moscow Olympics. 
plans for a "counter-Oiympics" Knute Rockne's I923 and I924 football teams. they called themselves the "Seven Mules,"
The vote was 3I5 to 147. 

and said any attempt to deny Speak of the le~ends that haunt this campus because they said if we had a nickname they
In another vote, the Com­
U.S. athletes passports for the and talk inevitably turns to this fabled wanted one too.'' 
mons rejected 305 to 188 an
Moscow Games would violate foursome. All four, along with their coach, are Crowley, who ranks eighth on the all-time
opposition Labor amendment
President Carter's human enshrined in the College Football Hall of Fame. Notre Dame rushing list with 1,841 yards on
urging that individual British
rights policies. Together they rewrote the records of their time 294 carries for 6.3 yards per rush, thinks the
athletes be allowed to make up
Pravda charged that oppo­and, not surprisingly, many of their accomplish­reason the Four Horsemen became so famous
their own minds on whether to
nents of the Olympics were ments remam measuring sticks even today. had a lot to do with Rockne's ability as a public
go.

trying "unpardonably" to Jim Crowley--Sleepy Jim Crowley as relations man.
However, a poll by Independ­
please the personal ambitions teammates and friends called him ("Because I
ent Television News PuQlished "It started with Grantland Rice's article and
of President Carter, who always looked half-asleep," he remembers.) is
in London today showed 70 grew from there," explained Crowley.
launched the boycott campaign the only member of the group still alive, and
percent of Britons want to see a "Rockne, always thinking about publicity, took
because of the Soviet interven­when the Notre Dame basketball team played
British r.eam compete in Mos­advantage of that nickname and had us pose on
tion in Hghanistan. LaSalle in Philadelphia back in January, Sleepy
cow. A poll published Sunday some horses when we got back to South Bend. 
It acLused Lloyd Cutler, who Jim was honored in pre-game festivities.
by The London Observer put He sent that out as a publicity picture and soon
heads the White House Olym­Afterwards I had the good fortune of spending
the ratio of Britons who want it caught on all over the country. Of course, it
pic rask force, of intentionally some time with him.
their country represented at didn't hurt that we won the national champion­
deceiving athletes into believ­"I don't get to see the boys in person too
three out of four. ship that year. If we'd have lost a few games, I 
ing that a counter-Olympics much any more," he sighed, obviously worn doubt whether we'd have grown so popular."
can be easilv organized. from the ~arne. "I do follow the football team Noting U.S. press claims that Walsh, BPwin on television and I went to the Army game two After playing or coaching the game for 25 
years ago at the Meadowlands.'' years, Crowley retired to private business.
the Lake Placid Olympics were Still, he's kept abreast of the developments
He shrugs at the suggestion that he is one of
an organiza•ional failure, Prav­in semifinals as
da expressed doubt that the the legends--a living legend--in Notre Dame's and he sees today's game somewhat 
Carrie Luepke scored I2 different from the way it was played when the
Caner Admmisrration "scheme sports lore. In fact, his modesty is over­
points to lead Walsh to a 30-24 Four Horsemen rode from stadium to stadium 
can in any way replace partici­whelming. 
pation in the Moscow Games.'' victory over Lyons last night in "The real key to our success was Rockne," and reaped win after win. 
a semifinal game of the he recalls wistfully. "He influenced everybody ''Obviously one of the changes is in theThe editorial followed an women's interhall basketball that came to know him. He was a dynamic emphasis of the game," he says. "It's a bigunusual reference by Foreign championships. Walsh will man; a good man, no, make that a great man. business now and there's a big concern withMinister Andrei A. Gromyko to 
meet Breen-Phillips in the We were not great football players--at least I money and salaries and the likef However,Caner's boycott plans. championship game. BP de­wasn't. Rockne· made us great. As a coach he football is still nothing more than a game of Breaking the near-complete feated Badin 20-I7 in overtime was years ahead of his time/' blocking and tackling, running and catching ... '' silence on the issue by Russia's yesterday in the other semi­The four backs averaged only 162 lbs apiece-­Which few did, or clo, as well as Jim Crowley 
top leaders, Gromyko said final contest. certainly small by today's behemoth standards. and Co. 



' 








