--------------~-----­
Urban Plunge -page 8
' ' ' 


VOL XIV NO. 76 an independent srudenr newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's FRIDAY FEBRUARY 1, 1980 
Bar ow-ners level harassment charges against Mayor Parent 
by Tom Koegel StaffReporter 
Bar owners and managers in 
South Bend· s Northeast neigh­
borhood have levelled allega­
tions of ··harassment" at both 
South Bend Mayor Roger Par­-ent and the South Bend vice­
squad in connection with in­
creasin~ numbers of police 
inspections and arrests at their 
establishments. 
Owners and managers of four 
Northeast neighborhood bars 
all claimed that their establish­
ments had been inspected by 
officers of the South Bend 
vice-squad, the Alcoholic Bev­
erages Commission, and the 
State Excise police so often that 
one owner labelled it "harass­
ment. 
The manager, who preferred 
to remain anonymous, said that 
officials "spend an inordinate 
amount of time in the bars, just 
digging and digging.'' 
Dan Tatum, owner of Goose's 
Nest, sees the raids as part of 
''a big crackdown in the state of 
Indiana. Of course, this always 
happens when there is a change 
in the mayor's office,'' he 
added, "but even then it seems 
that the inspections are coming 
more often than before.'' 
The manager of another bar 
said that he did not believe the 
ABC was involved, but did note 
that "the (South Bend) vice­
squad has been out in pretty 
heavy numbers. We're sure 
it's the mayor," he declared. 
"He's trying to clean up his 
former district and he thinks he 
can by hitting the bars." 
Newly elected Mayor Parent 
has not been available for 
comment the for the past three 
days. 
An official at the Michigan city 
off1ce of the State. Excise police, 
who would not allow his name 
to be used for/ublication, said 
that they woul visit a bar about 
which they had received com­
plaints frequently, but he 
would not specifically comment 
about the South Bend area. 
When asked whether he had 
received any requests for action 
from Mayor Parent, he sugges­
ted that Mayor Parent be 
contacted and that he would 
have no further comments. 
One bar manager was uncon­
vinced by the rumors of mayor­
al attempts to clean up the bars. 
He did add that "if the mayor 
was initiating this drive, he 
would be setnng himself up for 
a le~.itimate beef from the 
bars. 
The manager had noticed an 
increase in the number of 
inspections and raids, however. 
He said that_, in one evening, 
the establishments of Corby's, 
Briget's and Nickie's were 
raided "within a fifteen minute 
period." Two minors were 
arrested at Briget' s and three at 
Nickie's. 
Yet another manager who did 
not want to be named ("be­
cause we have enough trouble 
with raids already'') claimed 
that the increased number of 
raids is due to a determination 
by the vice squad that "it's a lot labelled "harassment" because easier to go after college kids in it would "not be in his political bars than drug pushers and interest.'' prostitutes on the streets.'' 
The manager cited a generalThe manager said the recent increase in the crackdown onupswing is due to a bill in the small crimes as evidence of theIndiana Legislature which vice squad's intent, andwould restore to mayors the claimed that the squad hasright to promote and demote gone to the point where "theypolice officers. 'They (the arrest little old men playingvice-squad) want to crack down peanucle for quarters.''
while they still can.'' 

The manager believes that if ' They went into a bar and Mayor Parent were to acquire found four seventy to eighty more influence with the police year old men playing cards with department, he would some money on their table. force the vice squad to "crack They arrested them for gamb­down on street crime," and ling. They just pick on safe would end what the manager territory.'' 
50 die as l(urdish rebels, Govemm.ent clash 

(AP) A fresh outbreak of Nations would launch an inves­fighting between Kurdish tigation of the alleged crimes of rebels and government forces the ousted Shah Mohammad has taken at least 50 lives in Reza Pahlavi, and the Moslem western Iran, a rebel spokes­militants holding the embassy man said yesterday. In Tehran would free the hostages. the revolutionary government A U.N. spokesman said at clamped down on demonstra­noon yesterday Waldheim had tions in an apparent effort to been in contact with Iranian head off further clashes hie­aurhorities in th previous 24 tween leftists and their foes. hours. He gave no details, but 
The new bloodshed was re­said he might have more to ported as signals grew stronger divulge by today. that some progress may be pos­It was not known whether sible in resolving the U.S. Waldheim was in touch with Embassy standoff and winning Iranian Foreign Minister Sa­freedom for the approximately degh Ghotbzadeh, his previous 50 American hostages in Teh­contact, with President-elect ran, who spent their !89th day Abolhassan Bani Sadr or with in captivity yesterday. some other Iranians. 
Optimism in Washington fo­The militants occupying the cused on a ''package deal'' embassy have insisted through­
U.N. Secretary-General Kurt out the crisis that they will not W aldheim has been trying to release their captives unless the work out whereby the United Shah is returned to Iran. 

Rob Bennet balances high above the floor of the Stepan Center as he helps with the construction of tbe Arnold Air Force Society AFROTC booth. [photo by Dave Brumbach[ 
In Guatemala 


Police stonn etnbassy
·­
'GUATEMALA CITY, Guatem­ala (AP) -Police stormed the Spanish Embassy, which had been occupied earlier yesterday by Guatemalan peasants. The Red Cross said more than 30 persons were killed in the fighting and a fire that broke out during the attack. 
Spanish Ambassador Maximo Cajal Y Lopez, who was slightly 

''Nothin '~r changed' 'in Winamac 
Editor's Note: This is the second part ofa sen.es examining the impact ofthe Pinto trial on Win­amac, IN. a town of2,300 located 65 mzles south 
ofcampus. 
by Tom Hay Senior StaffReporter 
\ 
While attorneys James Neal and Michael Cosentino draw national attention in the Ford Pinto case, area residents are more concerned, with getting a parking place near the center of town than with the legal precedents being set. 
Jo Ann Ortman, the clerk at a drugstore across the street from the Court House lamented, "if you want to know the truth, our business had dropped. Local people who usually come in here can't find any parking places. I love to meet all the new people, but most of the time they only buy a couple candy' bars.'' 
The number of cars in towo. seems to be about 
the only thing that has changed in the tiny 
Pulaski County community. The people them­
selves have scarcely been affected by the legal 
battle and the national attention focused on it. 
According to John Kelly, owner of Ace Hardware in Wi~amac, life isn't any different than before. "Nothin's changed much. 
Business is the same as usual, 'cept maybe 
. we'·.-e sold a couple more wastebaskets.'' Kelly is also a local humorist of sorts, as evidenced by some ofhis comments in one of the area papers. He wrote in The Pulask,i County Independent "Not too many years ago, the Winamac Court House was plagued with pigeons roosting there, now, at certain hours, this has changed to TV cameramen and reporters, roosting on the fron · steps. This sure has made for a cleaner, less i slippery and more attractive set of front steps.'' . While many peole around the coutry are following each new development in the trial, which began on January 7, most. local residents . don't seem to pay much attention to the proceedings. One customer in Matilds's, a diner across the street from the court house, remarked, "I only went in (the court room) once, for about ten minutes. If you ask me, it's all just a lot of hot air." Winamac is fairly deserted during the day, until the court recessed for lunch and the lawyers, journalists, and photographers flood the few local eateries, competing for seats with townspeople. (The only hint of fast food in the 
(continued on-page 10] 
wounded in the fight said, "the police action was brutal." 
A television news photogra­pher said, "We filmed at least 14 bodies, all burned," in what appeared to be a receiving room with a grilled door. He said shots rang out when the fire erupted. 
Among those in the embassy were former Guatemalan Vice President Eduardo Caceres Lenhoff and former Foreign Minister Rodolfo Molina Orantes. Their fates were not known immediatley. 
About 50 policemen surround­ed the building after the occupation, then took up posi­tions on the first and third floors, isolating the second­floor embassy offices before the assault. 
Firemen were called to the scene to fight the blaze, which police said might have been started by a gasoline bomb. 
A police spokesman said the peasants belonged to a group from the northern region of Quiche that briefly took over two radio stations in the caJ?ital on Monday and held meeungs to publicize demands for the release of colleagues they said had been arrested.$ 
They also called for an end to alleged government repression of peasants in Quiche, about 90 miles north of Guatemala City. The center-right government, headed by Gen. Fernando Romeo Lucas Garcia, has den­ied holding the peasants and­
[continued on page 12] 


'\ 

i j 

News in brief 
Friday, February 1, 1980-page 2 

Fadedafter 31years, Queen I abdicates throne to daughter 
AMSTERDAM • Netherlands (AP) -Queen)uliana, telling the Dutch people her powers have faded with age, announced her abdication yesterday after 31 years on the throne. Her daughter Crown Princess Beatrix will succeed her, carrying on the centuries-old dynasty of the House of Orange. :rhe 70-y_ear-old.Ju!i~na made the surprise announcement 10 a national tefeviston announcement from Soestdijk Palace, 25 miles outside Amsterdam. She said she would step down April 30--her·! 7lst birthday. 
Weather 
Sunny today and mosrly sunny tomorrow. Highs both days ' in the upper teens to around 20. Clear tonight lows 5 below, zero to 5 above. 



Catn.P-_u_s_...-----~ 
Friday, February 1 
12: 15pm SEMINAR "c-reactive protein & the acute phase response,'' dr. henry gewurz, rush medical school, chicago.GALVIN AUD. spons: dept. of microbiology. 
·Speaking at forum 
Groves stresses youth's value 
by Betsy Boland 

"Young people with new ideas. .. young blood... that's what makes a public accounting firm tick, ' ' said Ray Groves, national and internattonal partner of Ernst and Whinney, at a busi­ness forum held at the CCE last night. The Notre Dame Ac­counting Association and Beta Alpha Psi sponsored the1talk,at­tended by over 200 potential accountants and faculty mem· bers, focused on public accoun­ting for the Eighties. 
The Seventies, said Groves, ' welT a period of reconsidera­tion for the Big 8 accounting firms, regarded as a "big oc1Upus" becuase they control approximately 90 percent of the publicly held accounting firms. 
Changes in the Eighties, as seen by Groves and Ernst & Whinney, include stepped-up competition. "We welcome good, tough competition. It makes you try harder,'' and 
Undergrads
•


recetve 

helps alleviate the tendency to ''take the client relationship for granted.'' 
Communication, oral as well as written, is seen as a key advantage for potential entry­level employees in public ac­counting. According to Groves, "You must convey what you know, what you cando,... and be proud, convey pride in your 
self." 
The young employees in the firn ,, Groves challenged, must deal with the presently inade­9uate system of financial repor­ting in order w more fairly represent the imiJact of double­digit inflation on financial state· ments. , Forecasting is another key area which the new blood must · attack because, ''what really counts for the investor or creditor is not what's past, but rather, what's happening in the future. And measures of risk are essential " Groves said. 
Groves nar;owed his topic to Renst & Whinney and the field of vision for the Eighties. Working with smaller firms than they have historically (pre­sent clients include Coca-Cola, Inc., Black and Decker, and Bank of America), and expan­ding their international clien­tele are two goals to be achie­ved. They expect about $600 million in revenue this year, 2/3 of which is to be generated within the U.S., although the foreign market is the highest area of growth. 
Groves also predicts a widen­ing of the ''traditional pyramid in accounting" to necessarily accomodate more executive positions due to rapid advance­ment through the lower ranks, moving the firm in this direc­tion, Groves said, because "Organizations don't accom­plish anything, people accom: plish everythmg; we at Ernst & Whinney (just) create the conclusive environment.'' As long as a thorough thought process is emJ,>loyed to deal with the dynamic environment, an organization can maximize the motivation of its employees to be successful. 
Advocating "hands-on man­agement," whereby managers deal directly with clients and employees, Groves concluded by saying, "The fast track is there for anyone who wants to grab the brass rail. You :1ust have to work hard... and_ take responsibility.'' 4 
I-3pm EXHIBITION, university of illinois graduate art 

advaflce info'

works, ISIS GALLERY.. All present freshmen, sopho­3:30pm LECTIJRE, "lectures in philosophic logic," prof. 
mores, juniors and those 4th 
Sunday Masses 
saul kripke, princeton u. HAYES HEALY AUD. spons: phil. 
year students in five-year un­dept. 
dergraduate programs should 
at
an
have received information on 
C811)pUS
4pm DEPT. OF EARTH SCIENCES LECTURE, "energy 
advance enrollment through 

Sacred Heart Church 
miniStry
resources of water-bearing geopressure reservoirs,'' dr. don 
campus or regular mail. 

g. bebout, amer. assoc. of petroleum geologists, 101 EARTH 
Please return your card and 
5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffen. C.S.C.
SCIENCE BLDG. ~ 
deposit your check as instructed 
9:00a.m. Sunday Rev. Thomas King, C.S.C. 
10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. Francis Cafarelli, C.S.C.
in the letter. 

12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey. C.S.C.
7,9:15&11:30pm FILM, "an ame~ican in paris," CARROLL! 
Please note that advance en­
HALL SMC, $1, spons: student activities planning board. 1 
rollment is required for stu­
7:15p.m. Vespers Rev. Francis Cafarelli, C.S.C.
dents to advance register in 7-IOpm EDUCATIONAL WORKSHOP, issues and values: 
April for Fall Semester courses. election '80, sr. nancy sylvester from network-a religious 
Advance enrollment is due by lobby for social justice through legislation, spons: cila, 
Fehruarvh15. 
I BWtll /I f,

registration not necessary to attend, LIBRARY LOUNGE, 
admission free. 
~The Observer_
8pm CONCERT, boston pops, ACC $10, $7, $4. Night Editor: Margaret
10:30pm NAZZ, jeannie ritter. 
Kruse 

Asst. Night Editcr: Ryan "not me asain! VerBerk­moes, Dame! McGrath 
Saturday, February 2 
9am-noon WORKSHOP, puppet theatre, 179 MOREAU 
Copy Editor: Mike Onufrak
HALL, spons: ladies of notre dame. 
Layout Staff: Mike-Monk 
News Editor: Mikt· Lewis

1:30pm HOCKEY, nd vs wisconsin, A.C.C. 
Editorial Layout: Ann Gales 
Features Layout: Sal Grana­
2pm SWIMMING, nd vs st. bonaventure, ROCKNE POOL. 
ta, Molly Woulfe 
Sports Layout: Paul Mul­

3pm BASKETBALL, nd women vs marquette u., A.C.C. 
laney, Chris Needles Sports Copy Editor: Mike

7&10pm riLM "my fair lady," CARROLL HALL SMC. 
Ontmanspons: sapb. $1. 

Typists: Pat Shaughnessy, 
Carol Shuback, Cindy Jones,
8pm BASKETBALL, nd men vs davidson, A.C.C. 
Kath Murray, Carol Corn­
wall9pm NAZZ, brian m. hale and friends, NAZZ. 

EMT's: Cindy Richers, Liz 
SSS Huber

9pm-l2am EDUCATIONAL WORKSHOP, issues and values: 
Proofreader: Dan Ryan, ( 
election _'80, sr. nancy sylvester from network, spons: cila, Paul HN[leyregistratiOn no necessary to attend, LIBRARY LOUNGE 
ND Day Editor: Pat Camp­

admission free. ' bell 
Photographer: Dave Rum·

10:30pm NAZZ, eric barth and walt timperman, NAZZ. 
bach Guest Appearances: Mike Ortman

Sunday, February 3 
The Obs1rv1r [USPS 581 120] Is

1:30pm HOCKEY, nd vs wisconsin, A.C.C. 
published Mondly through Frtday 11­upt during exam and viCitilll plrilds.

2:30pm AUDOBON FILM SERIES, "mountain magic--te­
The Observer Is publlsllld by 11M tons, banff & alaska," CARROLL HALL SMC, $2. 
students of Natrt Dlllll IIIII S11nt MlfY'I Cllfegt. Sullscrt,._ lillY bl purdlaMd for $211 per yur 1$11 p1r

7pm GOSPEL PROGRAM, black cultural arts festival, 
1111111ttrl from The Observer, 1'.0. 1111 

LIBRARY AUD. 
Q, Nltl'l ballll, IIICIIIRI 4Eil. s-ci class "=X' paid, Nlltrl D11111, IIt­dlaRI .

8pm NAZZ, the acoustic guitar of will ackerman and rick 
The Observer Is 1 llllllllllr If till

walters, NAZZ, admission $3.50. 
AssoclatiCI PI'ISI. All 
••ldlctled 
rigllts 11'1 riSif'Wd'
li 



~----------------------------------------------~. 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ ----------------------------­
The Observer . Friday, February 1, 1980-page 3 



Bond to speak at Festival 
by Michael Onufrak volumes of verse including blacks in South Bend. 
Senior Copy Editor Black Feeling and Black Judg­·'The gospel program is im­ment. portant to us because it pro­Collins is from Chicago and is motes good feelings between 
Civil rights activist Julian currently involved with the blacks on campus and blacks in Bond heads a list of speakers educational turmoil in that city. the city. Last year we had nine who will visit Notre Dame in She was featured on a recent local churches send groups, and conjunction with the Black Cul­edition of the CBS news pro­over 400 people came to hear tural Arts festival to be held gram Sixty Minutes. them sing," said Atkins. February7-March 7. Though no Besides speakers, a number of "This year we're hoping for an definite date has been set for cultural events will be sponsor­even bigger turn-out," she Bond's talk, the former Georgia ed by the Black Cultural Arts added. congressman and present state Commission, and will be held According to Riddle, the only senator is committed for the during the Festival. Three such other event which is definite as Festival according to co-chair-events will be for students: a of today, is a -meeting with 
talent show, fashion show, and Kalamu Ya Salaam, editor of basketball tournament. One the Black Collegian. Salaam
'' The gospel program 

event, a gospel program, will will open the Festival Februaryis important to us be be held in cooperation with 7. cause it promotes good feelings between blacks 
JAN'S
on campus and blacks in the city." 

BEAUTY BOUTIQUE 
persons Cynthia Riddle and 

guys and gals
Dale Atkins. Also scheduled to speak 




COLLEGE DAYS EVERY
during the month-long festival 
are black poetess Nikki Giovan­

mONDAY & TUESDAY
ni and black educator Marva Collins. Giovanni, whose visit is being sponsored by the 

143 Dixieway '234-5350 
Student Union Academic Com­
mission, is the. author of several 



Old cause revived 
Draft rumors stir new protests 
(AP) President Carter's call for draft registration is promp­ting old anti-war hands to jmn in protests with students who were grade schoolers when the nation's campuses erupted in opposition to the Vietnam War. 
"Suddenly this is very per­sonal," said an unidentified woman at a protest rally that drew a thousand people at Harvard Univer-sity. "My bro­ther burned his draft card i n 1968 and now it's my turn." 
Around the nation, ad hoc groups were set up -many with roots in Quaker organizations or in anti-war organizations of the 1960s · to stage protest marches and rallies. Demonstrations began after Carter's State of the Uni:m address on Jan. 23, and more are scheduled in California, Michigan, Texas and Missouri. 
At Harvard and the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, "Hell no, we won't go" was the familiar refrain Wednesday; at Columbia University, about 50 pro-draft and ami-draft protest· ers scuffled over the American flag during an anti-draft rally that drew 500 people. 
At some campuses, support for the president ran htgh. Sixty-seven percent of those questioned in a random tele­phone survey by the Ohio State University student government said they backed draft registra­tion. And 63 percent said women should be required to register. 
But at the University of Calif­ornia at Berkeley, a similar survey showed 68 percent of those questioned opposed rein­statement of the draft. Carter has not suggested reinstituting the draft, however. 
"It's kind of a deja vu for me," said the Rev. Richard Dannenfelser, Brown Univers­ity's assistant chaplain, as about 300 students packed a campus discussion set up by antidraft activists. 
''The characters have changed but war is still brought to you by the same people · the military,'' said Darmenfielser, a veteran of the 1960s anti-war movement. "The military trains you and teaches you to kill and be violent. I'm completely op­posed to this thing." "I think we all know registra­tion is the first step toward the draft. Once they get that in­formation, you can be sure they're going to use it," Steve Brown of the Iowa Civil Liber­ties Union told about 1:50 stu­dents at the Drake University campus in Des Moines. 
Counter-demonstrators turned out in some areas, but there were no violent confrontations. 
''I'm definitely pro-peace, but I'm pro-draft registration. If the United States had a crisis today, what would we do?'' said 
Dave Adelson at the Columbia rally. ''I'm afraid for the rest of the world and for .~" country,'' said an unidentified woman at 
the Brown meeting. "You can't ignore what's happening." In Iowa, rallies that organizers said would be held each Wed­
nesday drew a total ofabout 500 people to campuses in Des Moines, Ames and Iowa City. 
FLOCpus~bes forND Campbell/Libby boycott 
by Maryellen Bradley 
The Farm Labor Organization Committee (FLOC) is meeting with Fr. John Van Wolvlear today at noon to discuss a student referendum to boycott Cambell and Libby products at Notre Dame. 
FLOC seeks union recognition from these two major canning industries through a nationwide boycott. "As long as the union exists, but the canneries refuse to bargain with us, we are helpless," said FLOC member Anne Kellenberg. 
FLOC began its fight for higher wages and better work­ing conditions for migrant farm workers of Ohio in 1967. Efforts to obtain their demands from the farmers have been unsuccessful. Farmers are caught between the farmwork­ers who demand higher wages and the processors who pay a pre-season tomato price for the crop, said a FLOC spokesman. As a result, FLOC is now demanding 3-way contract ne­gotiations between farmwork­ers, farmers, and canneries. 
Cambell and Libby, two of the major processors in the 3-coun­ty area of Ohio, are the focus of FLOC efforts. "Th"'Y are the ones who are in a position to do something,'' said Rene Ro<>en­baum, a FLOC representative. 
Cambell Soup is the largest manufacturer of canned soups, spaghetti, and blended veget­able juices, and the second largest producer of tomato juices. According to Fl:OC,the Soup company claims that is "it should not and will not inject itself into the labor negotiations between tomato growers and pickers.'' Cambell does not consider the pickers to be their employees and asserts that working conditions are the res­ponsibility of the growers, claim FLOC members. 
Libby is a major proc~ssor of tomato juice and a subsidiary of Nestles, the target oflast year's successful boycott at ND. According to FLOC, this can­nery expresses a similar reluc­tance to intervene in the work­er-employee relationship or to assume responsibility for work­er conditions. 
Rosenbaum claims that there is interdependence of growers·, farmworkers, and processors in the tomato industry. He stres­
[continued on page 5 




r-------------------------,
I 

t·an ENGAGED? MARRIAGE IN 
~"P.'S
I m1111Stry 

YOUR NEAR FUTURE PLANS?
I 
I 
I

I Rotre Dame students (both graduate and ( undergraduate) who ~e planning marriage next I summer or fall and wish to go through the PrHanaI experience here, must sign up in the Campus I Ministry Office by IBBBVABY 29. 
L-------------------------~ 


·' •• <I .. ,•. ~ 
........ ,.., .. -.. _-......... 'JIIV". 

The Observer Friday, February 1, 1980-page 4 
Death toll mounts 

Storni hits Southern states 

(AP( 1 From Mississippi to Maryland, people shoveled, slipped and sh1vered yesterday in the throes of a snowstorm that toppled ice-laden trees and power lmes and left thousands 1n the south without heat in a bitter cold. 
In the Mexican border town of 
I ijuana, meanwhile, soldiers 'anc volunteers waded through knee-deep mud in search of people feared drowned by 
floodwaters  unleashed  by  a  
burs~  dam.  
The  unofficial  death  toll  in  

Mexico rose to 10, all missing and presumed drowned, as the estimated 12,000 people forced from their homes began return­ing as skies cleared and the muddv waters-receded. Across the b<;rder, five Americans died as flooding hit scattered areas of Southern California on Tues­day and Wednesday. 
Heavr snow, ice and blustery winds battered most of the southeastern states, resulting in widespread power outages, school closings and ice-glazed roads throughout the region. 
At least a half-foot of snow was on the ground and temper­atures were near. and below­freezing in several srateS.­
"lr's snowing like crazy," said a sheriff's dispatcher in Tunica County, Miss. We do have ice on bridges, but our roads are passable and we've had no major traffic problems,,,. he said. r 
It was snowing at Hampton, Va., when Air Force One arri­ved wi~h the flamin~ Olympic torch, Itt Wednesday tn Greece. Runners slogged through snow and 23-degree temperatures at the start of the 1 ,000-mile torch carrying relay to the Winter Olympics at Lake Placid, N.Y. 
About 12,000 utility customers in Chattanooge, Tenn., were without service yesterday be­cause of an overnight snow and ice storm, and a utility official said it could be this afternoon before power was fully re-t· · 


~;ored. '«­
In North Georgia, more than 2,000 utility customers lost power when dozens of line~ snapped under the weight ·of freezing rain and sleet W ednes­day night. · 
"It's bad and it isn't getting any better,'' said William Canup, an official of Haber-· sham Electric Corp. of Clarkes­ville, Ga., which was struggling to restore power to 500 to 600 customers. He said it could be several days before power was restored to most of the people in the rural J5art of the state. 
Morning rush-hour traffic moved at a snail's pace m Washington, D.C., and its Maryland and Virginia sub-" urbs, where 3 to 6 inches of snow was expected by nightfall. Airports in the area remained open, however, and subways and buses were operating. 

;(>. Richard DeVos 



of Amway Corporation, at 'the Morris Inn yesterday afternoon. 
In the 20 minute interview, DeVos stressed that America must stop rewa,rding the poor and start rewarding the rich. 
DeVos explained that the poor "can not possibly help the poor,'· and that Americans should stop rewarding those who fail to make the effort to work. 
''Why should people who sit 
around all day and water their 
garden and walk the dog be 
... 
.. VISA HOURS: 
·Mon. thru Thurs. 8 am.-10 p.m. Fri. and Sat. 8 a.m.-11 p.m. 

1621 SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 233-4603 



MASS 

follow-ed by 
DeVos speaks on achievement 


supper everyFRIDAY 
at the 
Busch 
Coors 
Falstaff 
Jack Daniels 
Popou Vodka Southern Comfort 
Sea~ams 7 
Gallo Wines Mateus Rose Zonin Lambrusco 
Martini & Rossi Almaden Wines 
by Pam Degnan and john McGrath Senior StaffReporters 
"Salute the achiever" was the essence of a press conference with Richard DeVos, president 
24/12 oz cans  $5.99  
6/12 oz cans  $3.25  
24/12 oz cans  $4.99  
750 ML  $7.99  
Quart.  $3.99  
Quart  $6.99  
1. 75 Liter  $10.99  
1.5 liter  $2.99  
750 Ml  $3.49  
750 ML  $1.99  
750 ML  $3.99  
1.5 Liter  $2.99  


able to sit back and reap the 
benefits of those who work to 
achieve something concrete in 
life?", said DeVos. 
Amway is a multinational 
household cleaning products 
concern in Ada, Mi., that pre­
dicts. estimated sales at the 
retail level in excess of $1 
billion. 
Amway specializes in six dif­ferent product lines: home care, housewares, nutrition, cosmetics, as well as commer­cial and personal shoppers cata­logues. Amway fully guaran­tees all their products. DeVos maintamed that corpora­tions like Amway need excess capital in order to purchase more efficient machinery which would "naturally help promote the welfare of the United States.'' 
"We need people to invest their capital in American indus­tries like Amway in order to increase overall productivity. Without money invested in industry the levels of producti­vity will be decreased and the workers are the first to fed the pinch; and without the workers the corporation will buck under 
the strain," explained DeVos. 
Before an overflow crowd at the Library Auditorium last night, DeVos touched on topics as far ranging as hunger, education, and the failures of socialist and communist sys-terns throughout the world. 
"We have to stop making excuses for our failures," De-Vos told the gathering, "and 
instead concentrate on the chal­lenges ahead of us. • • "We also have to stop apolo­gizing to other nations for this country's success," DeVos 
said. ''Look at all of the aid that we've given to Afganistan in
-
11
the past, and they're stt not our friends. You can't buy friends just by sharing with 
them.'' 
Confronting the problem of hunger, DeVos sugsested that Americans are lookmg at the wrong angle of the situation. "People in other nations say, 'look at those Americans and all the food they have,' " DeVos 
•
reduce hunger, but how to 
inspire people to start helping 
themselves." · 
He added that the principle 
reason for hunger in the world 
is not overpopul~tion nor a 
shortage of tillable land, but 
political instability. 
DeVos also outlined his philos­ophy concerning the stages which nations pass through during their history. 
''The first phase we went through was to build this sreat nation of ours--from nothmg. When the first settlers came over and tried to live by sharing, they almost starved to death," DeVos said. "It was only when they started planting their own land and keeping the harvest did food production increase two-and three-fold." 
His second stage was the managing phase. Of this he recalled, "At Amway we went through this stage when we became so worried about run­ning the country that we lost sight of building on what we already had. In the United State:: we're also looking at this same problem." 
DeVos explained that America has now entered the third stage. "We Americans have got to the point where we have to explain away non-growth," he suggested. "Call it defen­sive or call it 'negative excuse-making,' but either way it's a result of losing our initiative to continue growing." 
''The Soviet Union is already in the fourth stage,'' DeVos said. "And that is where you blame things on outside factors 
when you can't succeed. Last
d 
year they blame their poor
harvest on too much rain; this
th bl m d 't t
year ey a e 1 on no 
enough rain, but the real reason that they can't feed themselves is because they've lost all their 
personal initiative." DeVos co-founded Amway (short for "The American Way") in 1959. Now the company employs 4,000 people in the United States and 14 foreign countries. Amway also 
pointed out. "But so what, 0-wns•n the Mutual Broad Casting even if we'd eat less, there still System, the world's largest wouldn't be enough food to radio network, with 950 affili­feed all the starving people of ated and 1,200 non-affiliated the world. The challenge is not radio stations across the coun­simply to produce more to try. 
........,. ________.. 
-·--·-~····
.,............_____........_..._ ...._......----...a.a........aa.------........ .-..,__...__...,;;~--------------.------~·~.-....__.._.·A·--~·~­
W'"-------~---~-..-,.-­
Friday, February 1, 1980-page 7 
P. 0. Box Q 
Prof. W alshe confuses hisDraftarticle notion of "equality" with equal 
The Observer's Jan. 25 story on faculty 
reaction to Jimmy Carter's disgllSting· State Of 
the Union message might have taken a wider 
sampling ofopinion than that ofthree professors 
f~om the same department. _Althoughlmean no 
discourtesy towards these co~-Qe$,1 W()Uld 
like ro hear, for ex_ample, :$()rne\.y~'¢Ws ftdJri 
Theology. Indeed, lt wo..U(i) Q¢, irt~r~~titl.g t~ 
know a cross section ofcampus ~¢SpOQ!Se to _Mt:.6 g,q:-irnn 
Carter's sanctimonious rherorlc-ofviolence.· ­
In his speech the President assumed 1:he mantle-· 
of leadership of this great courttryo _That was hi$. 
delirium--no doubt infectious--about his perfor• 
mance. What he re~lly wrapped around himself 
were the ro~ren rags of history stinking with the 
gore of recent human sacrifice. 
Instead ofa considered and fresh. . J~pproacb to Soviet adventurism. Jimmy Outer offered the old farrago· of self--congratularo.cy sentiments about American ~rand primacy in. the world. Whereas. ~he United States ~esentlf has far mot<; mdttary force than Jt '"'tequU'es; the Prestdent urges a five percent·atmualint::r~se over inflation. in military ~pen~~
Whereas thts country ts ...· ... 
consequences of irs embrace trattif in 
I~an, ihe Preside~;Jt.reco~ends pt(jppiJlgd?e 
dtctator General Zia to Pakistan WhC1Se uncertain 
rule is by martial law and ~te posrpone• 
ment of promised elections. . 
:Wher~~s the CIA's colJabor~tiotl wit~ te{'res­
stve mdttary nde and voractous multtoanotlal 
capitalism abroad and with lawless infiltration of 
civil rights and anri-war groul's at home should 
have annulled its claims to uulependent exis­
tence, the President would restore.. po:wer and 
secrecy to that organization so nefarious in its 
operation and imbecile in its accomplishment. 
Finally, in deference to a military}ns~u:ia}llefor ~odies, the President P.f?pos.es.•·~.at.i~~al reg.-.·.ist.r~~ ".-.. !.'.on. These '-!re the; pohtics of·h·y·.·.·sr.. ·.·...·.· ·.··...·.d.... th···.·.·.e..tr.·.Af ....... -"'""
tmplementanon w1Il have heaV}' . . nsequences . 
for all of us unless debate can be forced upon the 
government. 
Even an unprincipled buffoon like ~niel 
Patrick Moynihan and an ice~age cold warrior 
like Henry Jackson are concern~d that Mr.. 
Caner has portrayed the intema~ional situation 
in dangerously extreme terms. Although none 
except those in Eastern European countries and 






Tfie Corporate Ladder 
Art Buchwald 

WASHINGTON --As more big shots? I'm not good at rive vice-president got down to. and more women join the work small talk.' " business. She said a husband's force, it follows that many of '''Just be yourself,' she told. ~ole in the company was just as them are getting the key to the me, 'they don't expect anything Important as the wife-'s. She corporate washroom. When great out of an executive's expected us to be a team. That these women reach executive husband. But since you'll be meant I had to entertain impor­levels, it is only natural that travelling with me a lot, they tant customers in my home or in companies not only investigate want to make sure that you a restaurant, take the spouseshow effective they will be, but won't do anything to disgrace shopping or sightseeing, and also how their spouses will fit in the company.' make them feel welcome while as ''members of the team.'' "I asked her if I should bone my wife was trying to close the 
There was a time when a man up o, the corporation so I dlidn' t dea1 
who was being considered for a look igr.orant when it came to ''Janet's immediate boss ask­good job had to produce his United Glob~·tex affairs. She ed me if I had a drinkingwife to see ifshe was the ''risht said she didn't think I should problem, which I of course kind of person" to be marned discuss business as I would only denied. She asked me if I to a corporation executive. This make a fool of myself. So I said, !llind<;d Janet soing to meet­was u~ually done discreetly by 'What should I talk about?' and mgs 10 other cities and beinginviting the wife to dinner she replied, 'The children, away from home when dutywith her husband to meet the clothes, football--but don'lt for­called. I said, of course I other executives and their get tQ tell them you went to didn't. I was not one of th~se 
WIVeS. Harvard so they won·t think hu~bands who always com­
But now for the first time plamed when his wife started
you're a dummy!'
companies are taking a harder packing her bag.
"Well, last night I went
look at rhe husbands of women through my 0rdeal offire. They -. 'This-see mea to satisfy them they are planning to hire. · took us to the Four Seasons all, and even the mousy hus­Flagstaff, a pal, had just been restaurant. There were thrtt ~and of_the president gave theput through an ordeal, and he executives and their spouses. ImpressiOn that I would fit in.
reponed back to me the next ''The husband of thefresident As a matter of fact, as we leftday about what had happened. 
was a mousy type an he gave the restaurant, the executive"Janet told .ne," he said, me the once-over like I was dirt. vice president whispered to"that she thought she had the He wanted to know how my Janet, 'I think your husband is
vice presider ,.y of United 
golf game was. I told him I adorable, and he seems awfullyGlobetex all S• ·., ::d -w; , The didn't play golf. I thought intelligent for a man."'
finahest, shes~~~. wa::. Low the Janet would die. But the ''That must have pleasedtop enchiladas · ~cted •'=' was nice
me. president very and Janet no end," I said wYou can imagim: how nervous I tried to put me at ease. She Flagstaff.
was. Because her career was at said some of the husbands of ''It did. When we got homestake, I asked her if I should the top echelon didn't play golf she hugged and kissed me and wear a hat and whitt: gloves-­either. If you want to know the said, 'Honey, I'm on my way up but she said a dark blue suit, a truth, I think she was making a the corporate ladder, and what­white shirt and a conservative pass at me--but I ignored it." ever happens, I'm taking youtie would do just fine.· Then I :'After the ch~tchat, the execu with me."'
said, 'What do I say to all these 

'inaccurate' 
"Dear Editor: 

The_ article. written by Mary Leavitt, enutled ''SMC stu­dents favor draft," (The Obser­ver, January 25), was an inac­curate article. I'm surprised that anyone would write such an article, and even more surprised that the editor al­lowed it to appear in the paper. The writer made statements which she didn't have facts to verify. Many generalizations were made in the article; in fact, the title can't even be backed up by the results of the "poll" which was conducted. 
The writer said that 30 stu­dents were polled. At Saint Mary's there are approximately 1~00 students, so percentage­Wise ,s~e polled roughly two percctlt of the studt~nts. Out of the ten girls quoted in the article, five were from the same hall as the writer. Most of the girls in the article are sopho­mores, as is .the writer. Her selections of participants was not random; therefore, I don't believe she can use her poll to repre~ent all of Saint Mary's 
Her, first sentence was ''Most Saint• Mary's students favor reinstitution of Selective Set­vic~ Registration according to an uiformal poll conducted by The Observer last night.'' This may be true, but the writer had no grpunds upon which to state this. 'As I said before, she only polled two percent of the stu­dents at Saint Mary's, and not a varied two percent at that. 
Another statement made in the article was," Probably the most revealing comment was made by Julie Sigmund. 'Sure I think all women should be draftcd,'she said. 'All women except SMC women, that is.''' I don't understand what this comment is supposed to reveal. The person who made that state~ent.was obviously joking, and If she wasn't, then she doesn't reflect my views in the least. 
Allowing articles such as this to appear in the newspaper doesn't uphold your status. 
Patricia A. 0 'Connor 
Editor's Note: The Observer stands behind·our reporter and her article. 

Who initiates MNC exploitation? 
Dear Editor: 

This letter is in response to Prof. Peter Walshe's criticism (The Observer, Jan. 29) of the free enterprise system. 
1:~e U.S. "must develop a new cnucal politics ... that is not fearful, but has a certain vision (of) a greater equality, domesti­cally and internationally, and can deal with corporate power and bring it under-control of the democratic process.'' In this statement, Prof. Walshe im­plies· that the U.S. should protect political freedom (free­dom_ from the state) and eco­nomic ~qual!ty (a distinctly un-Amencan Ideal). 
The U.S. was founded on the pri1_1~iple of protectin~ only political freedom, which in­vol~es protecting equal oppor­tumty. 
opportunity. After all, how can the U.S. protect economic equality when some people work harder and innovate more than others? Prof. Walshe should realize that members of 
a  free  society  can  never  be  
equal i n wealth.  
Prof.  W alshe ·also  seems  to  

ignore some possibilities when he criticizes U.S. multination­als' ''exploitation'' of develop­ing countries. I found that the film ''Controlling Interest: The World of the Multinational Corporation ignores the same possibilities. 
In "Control!ing Interest," the foreign governments depicted _create the economic system and then complain about multina­tionals that work within the system. For example, the governments of Chile, Brazil, and the Dominican Republic pick one extreme or the other. The governments either ban ~nions. and encourage foreign mvestment or support unions and discourage foreign .invest­ment. The former precipitates exploitation charges against the multinationals; the latter, slow economic growth. 
These foreign governments should abandon extremist poli­~ies. Governments of develop­mg countries can stimulate economic growth with foreign Investment. But these govern­ments should mix social goals with economic ~oals·. Economic growth and umon participation are not mutually exclusive oc­currences: 
_U.S. multinational corpora­tions do exert tremendous in­fluence on developing coun­tries. But foreign governments can legitimately regulate U.S. multinational corporations to serve the economic and social needs of their countries concur­rently. Before foreign govern­ments and Prof. W alshe con­demn the free enterprise sys­tem, they had better reexamine who initiates and encourages the ''('Xploitation. ·' 
Kinny McQuade 
llination for asacred cause 
Editor's Note: We received the following leiter from one ofour subscribers who wishes to re­main anonymous. Enclosed in the letter was a $50 check for the Cambodian ReliefFund. 
Dear Editor: 
I read your articles on rhe Cambodian situarion and vour call for help. I espec-ially remember the article that start­ed something like, "I don't know what else to do but write.·· The whole paper made me cry and I promised to send some monev when I had it. 
On Christmas Eve I was working nighr duty in the hospital specialling a woman who was dying of cancer. In such a situation there's not a lot that can be done, and I remem­ber thinking," My God, help her," It was then that I remembered your cry of "My G~>d, help them." and I prayed. 
So 1send you my salary from a sacred evening for a sacred cause. It gives me joy and relief to keep my promise. 
Name Wzlhheld 
____________________________l_ __ --­

·------~--~ 




Editorials 
Friday, February 1, 1980-page 6 
Attitudes on draft reveal confusion 
Maryellen Bradley 
Mealtime at the dining hall cup of coffee l!l th(" dimng hall; was once a tranquil break in my to sacrifice the Olympics or sign dav. I left the lunch table last up for the draft is quite another Fr;day afternoon, however, suf­matter. fering from mild indigestion. Some students support the Several articles in The Observer draft only under special condi­ulllcerning President Carter's tions or ro advance a particular proposal ro reinstate draft cause. For instance, some hold regtstration and the t~rbulent that ERA supporters, who have dis~ussion that they surred up fought so ardently for equality ;tmongst my friends upset my in other roles traditionally as­'tonuch. signed to men, should also be 
f{einstat em<·nt of the draft is a willing to fill a ~oldier' s boots. 
·._l·nous signal," as professor Other students offer pregnancy . \Ian Down· worded it, to the as an alternative to fighting . s,"·iet s. It· is also a serious A show of hands in my signal ro all of _us in the roommate's government class ND-S~IC cummumty. The indicated that most people Ohs,•n•er ·.1· report of President favor reinstatement of the draft Carter's message and the stu­only if college students would dent rt·al·tion to it touched a be exempt. Similarly, a Saint s<·nsiti\"e nerve in young people Mary's student offered her on rhis campus. President conditional support: "Sure I Cart.:r's proposal provoked stu­think women should be drafted. dents to grumble, joke, and All women except SMC women express fears. I appreciat~ the that is.'' Are such comments show of interest, but am dtsap­meant to amuse? pointed in some of the state­I think these responses rev_eal me,Hs made to The Observer. confusion about a confusmg The students' responses reveal situation. They also consist of confused and inconsistent loyal­unconcerned, hypocrital words, tv. They also show the tendency designed to mask the confu­~f many people to blurt out sion. The interviewed students simple responses to comple.x may not have voiced such yut·stions, rather _than adr~m attitudes, had they paused 
their own confusiOn or tg­before answering to reflect 
norance. upon the questions asked. The 
According to the poll taken at most intelligent response to a Notre Dame, most students perplexing question may well objnt to fighting, but would be, ''I don't know." submit to the draft rather than Student pulls and lunchtime run to Canada, or clash with the conversations reveal important law. Many students said they trends in artitude and opinion. oppose the Soviet movement in But if the stated attitudes and theory, but do not wan~ to opinions are mere flippant ex­commit themselves to dtrect pressions of unformulated action. It is one thing to discuss thought, they are nothing but "the Soviet threat of war" in wasted breath and the source of fuzzy, hypothetical terms over a my indigestion. 
f)R. TARZI IS THE NEIA/t..Y APPOIN'Tl30 
~lfTIV&OF 
7HcPPr3A! 

m Jusr RKfJVEP mt1R ~ RRSI~llON NaTICK... '·---<­


Thepoverty ofnaive patriotism 
Kevin Behrndt 

Well, here we go again. Just all the pain and agony this toric -which has become so 
as all my history professors nation has suffered in the last fashionable again. 
were telling me that the Cold thirty years we would stop and Certainly it IS much easier to
War has evolved into a new era think before we shout. Ifwe do, drop bombs than it is to sit 
of detente, it appears that the we would realize that President down and talk about problemsCold War never really left us. Caner is using Iran and Af­
in a logical, intelligent fashion. 

All one has to do is glance at the ghanistan as stepping stones to It is much easier to spend 
papers and he wtll ~nd ~he another four years m office. billions on arms to protect Arab same Cold War rhetoric whtch After all that talk about a lack of oil fields than it is to conserve was so popular after World War leadership in the White House, 
energy in your own home. It is II being flung around ~ow, Carter abandoned his gentle much easier to fling arrows disguised as good old Amencan Southern manner and decided 
back and forth and talk about 

patriotism. we still have that he would show everyone how Soviet hegemony than it is to ''threat to world stability,'' and tough he really was. Iran a~d 
face up to the reality of Ameri­we still must ''contain the Afghanistan ha_v~ given ~1m can corporate imperialistic capi­
Soviet bear which is spreading golden opportumues to do thts: talism. So everyone ,.umps on 
the stain of Communism all now it is hard to tell if Carter or the red, white and b ue band­over the world.'' We even have 
Barry Goldwater is our presi­wagon in a pretense of patri­the "Carter Doctrine," a crude dent. 
otism which really hides the imitation of the Truman Doc­

Sure, the world situation has multicolored world situation, a trine. changed in recenc months--one sicuation spartered with black 
The conservatives are drooling cannot be totally ideological spots for the United States. over the recent Soviet invasion and ignore reality. But history 
I am truly amazed that Profes­of Afghanistan, because it gives has shown us that using force to sor Norling could expound such them a chance to divide the fight force does not solve any 

simplistic views about the

world into two distinct sides. problems. The Soviet Union is world, and use such phrases asThe conservative world view is wrong, and if we counter with ·· ... the ceaseless struggle ofnaively divided into black and more guns we will be wro~g the Free World to escape thewhite, good and evil, commu­also. Killing more people wtll toils of communist thralldom.''
nism versus the Free World. not change anything. It is a That kind of sugar-coated lan­The world was too complicated fallacy to define leadership as guage sounds great, but it. is before with all that talk of military force. It takes much unbelievably natve to the pomtdetente, SALT, and, heaven more leadership to initiate of ridiculousness. Is he tryingforbid, peace. Conservatives peace than to threaten war.We 
to resurrect Joe McCarthy ordo not know how to handle must see Caner's sudden shift something? I am amazed th~tissues which are not simplisti­in attitude. as it is--an attempt to intelligent students on thtscally divided into two distinc­keep his job for another four campus can be taken in by suchtive sides, so they clothe them­years. Boycotting the Olym­McCarrhyism. Peter Walsheselves with patriotic rhetoric pics, reinstituting the draft, and seems to be one of the fewand define the world in their selling more guns will not make people on this campus who is own terms. 

the Soviets run away. No one cutting through the rhetoric and So now conservatives can ram­will be a winner--both sides will looking at the world in anble on for hours about how we lose. · intelligent, moral, Christianneed to spend more money on In reading the opinion col­fashion. 
arms, how the Soviets are umns in The Observer and Instead of throwing aroundtaking over the Free World talking to students over the last irrelevam names and labels,(always capitalized, mind you), few days, I find myself shocked, instead of trying to "be" ahow America is in "second amazed, and disappointed. l socialist or a conservative, why place.'' Suddenly, everyone find students who are actually don't W(' "be'· intelligent?
sounds like Ronald Reagan-­intrigued about the possibility Why don't we slow down toeven our Democratic prestdent of a war in Afghanistan. stop and think about conse­who just one year ago promised Suddenly, there is this new quences before we shout?
not to bring back draft registra­wave of patriotism in the ~ir, What we need now is sometion. This kind of simplistic and people are actually gemng imelligent, rational, effectiverhetoric colored red, white, and mad about something. Of leadership, not more guns andblue makes me writhe with course, most of these "patri­bombs. I urge everyone to st?P
disgust and dismay. 
otic" students favor deferments hiding bt>hind fancy rhetonc,When are we going to wake for college students, which and face the reality of theup? When are we ~oing to simply reveals a glaring incon­present world situation. It islearn from our past mtstakes? 
sistency in their stand. What nice to he parrio11.:, but first weCan't we recognize a potential these students are doing is are human bein_g.s, then we areKorea or Vietnam when we see hiding behind the hawkish rhe-Americans _.,.,.
one? You would think that after 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department ·scJnr ~ers
The news is reported as a<.,' ~.arely a•.d


-The Observer_ 
as objectively as possib!~ Ld:rorials Ed:ror-in-chi%.. .......Rosemary Mills Sports Editor.. . . . . . . . . . Mark Perry represent the opimon of a maJorit~ of M · E · Dt'ane Wilson Features Edztor ... .. Kathleen Connelly
anagzng 1/or......... . &x Q Notre Dame, IN 46JJ6 the Editorial Board. Commentanes, Edrlorial Editor .............. Ann Gales Photo Editor .............. 0oug Christian opinions and letters are the ~iews ?f Senior Copy Editor ....... .. M.. Onufr~k 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space ts avatl­Executive News Editor ...... M1ke Lew1s Business Manager ........Steve Odland newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor .................... Mark Rust Production Manager .... John McGrath of the University of Notre Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News Editor ................. Mike Shields Advertising Manager .........Bob Rudy and Saint Mary's College. It Joes not opinions on campus, through letters, is 1 Controller..................Kevin Manion
SMC News Editor........ Margie Brassil 
necessarily reflect the policies of the encourage-d. Circulation Manager ...... Greg Hedges 

The Observer 
. Friday, February 1, 1980 -page 5 
-~----~ ------~~--~---------------, 


Prosecutor Michael Cosentino [nght] and expert witness Byron Bloch respond to 9ue_stion.s following yesterday :s sesswn ofthe Ford Pznto tnal zn Wmamac, Ind. The stale s case was dealt a double blow as defense attorney james Neal successfully objected to the admittance into evidence of testimony concerning crash tests ofPinto sedan prototypes. 
In addition, Neal spent much of his cross-examination of Bloch in an attempt to discredit him as an expert witness [see story!. Appeanng in the case as an auto safety consultant, Bloch used t•tsual aids such as this cutaway portion ofa 1973 Pinto to point ou~ ,the d_angerous placement ofthe fuel tank in 
the ''crush zone behznd the rPar axel. The actual fuel tttnk from the demolished Ulnch Pinto appears in front of the exhibit. [photos by Doug Chnstian] 
Judge denies prosecution Pinto , 


crash test evidence 
WINAMAC, IND. (AP) The prosecution in Ford Motor Co.'s reckless homicide trial failed yesterday in another attempt to introduce testimony about crash tests involving prototypes· of Pinto sedans -evidence it said was crucial to the case. 
Pulaski Circuit Judge Harold 
R. Staffeldt reaffirmed a pre­vious ruling that the prosecu­tion may discuss only evidence involving the 1973 Pinto, the model involved in a triple-fatal­ity, rear-end crash that trig­gered the unprecedented charges against Ford. 
Prosecutor Michael A. Cosen­tino, questioning an auto safety consultant who is an important prosecution witness, tried to use the crash rests conducted by Ford on Pinto prototypes in 1969 to show the car was vulnerable to explosion in rear­end collisions. 
The state contends the auto­maKer knew Pinto fuel tanks whe unsafe, but did nothing 
· about 1t. Ford attorney James F. Neal objected to using the crash tests because of Staffeldt's earlier ruling and because the consult­ant, Byron Bloch, was not present when the tests were conducted. Cosentino argued that he needed testimony about the crash tests, which Bloch said he had studied, to counter defense evidence showing the fuel tank of the 197 3 Pinto was much like other subcompacts. "He (Neal)tried to show that the Vega was the same as th~ Pinto, that the Gremlin was the 
· same as the Pinto and that the 

... Boycott 
tatives. "This time we won't make the same mistake,'' said Rosenbaum. "We'll make sure the ballot boxes are open." 
There will be a meeting Mon­day night at 9 p.m. in the La Fortune Ballroom for all stu­dents interested in FLOC. 
Colt was the same as the Pinto,' 'Cosentino said. ''I have the right to show that they are not.'' 
Neal said the tests were irrelevant because they used a car that combined the l{ont end of a Mercury Capri and a prototype of the rear half of the still-unmarketed Pirtto. 
Cosentino told reporters that he will try to introduce crash test evidence again later after laying a legal foundation show­ing the relevance to the 1973 Indiana crash. "I am going to get this crash test in. Jlist bear with me," he said. "It's just a matter of time.'' 
If he is unable to use that evidence. Cosentino said, "I have a problem." 
Neal spent much of the day trying to discredit Bloch as an expert witness. 
He showed the jury two differ­ent versions of Bloch's resume, both listing a master's degree in industrial design that he never received. Another listed a Bachelor's Degree in industrial design with an emphasis in Biotechnology, although Bloch took only two classes in Bio­technology at UCLA and failed one of them. He also failed his only course in electrical engin­eering at the University of Kansas. 
Bloch acknowledged the dis­crepancies but said they had been brought out several times before in other product liability cases. 
VILLAGE GREEN HOUSE NORTH VILLAGE MALL U.S. 31 NORTH 
10% dtscount to students except on sales or specials. 21 J.D. REQUIRED 

LEARN TO COOK AT 


PATSY'S PANTRY 
menus, Favorite recipes, Helpful Hints 
Beginning Februaty 
4 week course 2 hour sessions For more information or to register phone Patsy 




272-5640 
don't miss this event!!!!!! A MUSICAL WEEKEND OF FILMS FRI. "An American in Paris" 7:00, 9:15 &11 :30 SAT. "My Fair lady" 7:00 & 10:0~ CARROLL HALL SMC ADMISSION $1.00 
·:~ ;·l-"" .. ,, . 

Neal noted that in a 1977 trial against General Motors Corp., Bloch described himself as an expert on coffee percolators, garbage trucks, tractors, hos­pital tables and train accidents. However, Bloch said while he dido' t design those items, he analyzed their designs for de­
fects"as  they  relate  to  ac­ 
cidents.''  
Neal  also  disclosed  that  in  

1976, Bloch advertised a cock­tail party and seminar on 
product liability cases for law· yers and legal secretaries at a California discotheque. 
''A top expert witness shows you how to win in product liability cases . . . and how to expand accident cases into product liability cases,'' the ad said. 
Earlier, Bloch admitted that only three lines of rear-wheel­drive cars sold in the United States placed the fuel tank above the rear axle, a position Bloch contends is less vulner­able to explosion in rear-end ,accidents. 1:31ocn said had the ,Pinto tank been above the :;txle, ,instead of behind it, "the tank ,would have survived the (Indi­
1

ana) crash because the tank 
I

would have moved forward when the car was struck from behind.'' 
Bloch also said one of the rear-wheel-drive cars with the fuel tank above the axle was manufactured by Ford but dis­continued because the car didn't selL 
mENDOZA'S GUITARS, REPAIRS, ACCESSORIES 1mile north of cGmpus
272-7510 

[continued from page 3] 
sed '·the power of the canneries over the people.'' 
According to Rosenbaum, the canneries mfluence the farm­worker's condition three ways: 
1) they effect wages by deman­ding a pre-season tomato price from growers; 2) they influence farmworker-farmgrower nego­tiations; 3) and most important­ly they influence the displace­ment of workers. 

The canneries pressure grow­ers to mechanize their farms, said a FLOC spokesman. "If you don't have any machines," Kellenberg quotes the canner­ies, "we're not going to con­tract you. • According to the FLOC representatives, farm mechanization leads to worker unemployment, financial risk for the grower, and low quality tomatoes. 
FLOC memebers hope for a better response to this year's referendum. Students showed little interest in voting for the boycott last May due to exams and inadequate publicity of the issue, said the FLOC represen­

r 
r 



Features 

Friday, February 1, 1980-page 8 
Students Take Plunge 
Karen Smith 

The di\er pauses on the high diving board. Within an instant, she plunges head-first into the icy water. Her body quivers from the cold, refreshing thrill of entering a new world, the wor!d of water. The plunge is a quick, total immersion into an environment that leav'!s the diver affected in a multiciplicity of ways. 
For 235 Notre Dame and St. Mary's College students who plun~ed briefly inro 48 urban sites in the U.S. and Puerto Rico this) anuary, totaltmmersion describes the Urban Plunge. As students emerge from their plunge they show signs of having been deeply affected by an environment most of them have never experienced before. 
One student found himself sleeping on a crowded flop house floor 
• surrounded by 62 men--his first night at Save the Alcoholic m Chicago. A freshman •>bserved that although he had traveled the main arteries of St­Louis often, just turning a corner led him to what seemed like a different counrry. ' PROCESS ­More is involved in the Urban Plunge experience than mere shock value, however. As in diving and swimmin~. there is a process involved of which the plunge is only one phase. Experiential !t-aming combines the learning gained from read.ng and viewing with experience, Le. personal encounters, int::=rviews, on-the-spot exchange with all the smells, noises, non-verbal communication and nuances that only come from being there. Reg Weissen, Urban Plunge coordinator from the Center for Experiential Leuning, helps to guide thts process from application to follow up. In collaboration with a student task force (all veterans of a Plunge), hosts in each city are coni acted, activHies prepared, visits to organizations planned with the learning process held foremost in mind. Some shocks are absorbed as siUdents discuss what they are experiencing among themselves and with their hosts. These Hosts are men and women working for social justice who are members of CCUM (Catholic Committee on Urban Ministry). Other shocks hav~ w wait for parental feedback or reaction from student friends who did not participate in the Urban Plunge to be worked out. But the process conunues ... The 291 s1Udents who applied for the UP found themselves writing a brief explanation of why they were interested in spending two days in the inner city in such a program. They signed a (...:~rrting agreement that explained the course goals and requirements. The UP is described as an opportunity to enable studenrs to "experience the conditions of injusuce, poverty, and apathy found in our cities. At the same time they will be able to increase their awareness of persons who are working to make things better and to evaluate their strategies. As part of a more complete education, Up presents an opportunity to gain fresh perspectives related to future study, major, or career goals.'' Students were required to attend a preparatory workshop for three hours which included presentations by Professors John Roos, Tom Swartz, Fr. Dan Tormey, and Helen Volkomener, director ofCCUM. Reading materials were distributed to help provide background briefing for the participants. Each student group leader contacted his/her host. Each host arranged specific personal encounters and activities as well as housing for the students. "Sheer hectic ness'' is the term coined by a AMC student because of the intensity and diversity of hr-r experience. 
Because the UP is an academic course, Theologv 1 credit, preparation, stimulation, and exposure must be balanced by reflection, questioning, and nurturing to become part ofa real process ofeducation. Reflection papers are required of each student; an account of happenings plus an objective stepping back and reflecting upon why? how? and now what? What does this mean to me? These papers help to clarify the experience, questions and insights which will later be shared with professors and other plungers and resource:: persons in small group follow-up sessions. 
HISTORY 

The idea for UP originated in 1967 when a group of ND/SMC men and 
.. women spent a weekend at Presentation Parish in Chicago where Msgr. ) ohn Egan was pastor. Fr. Don McNeill, one of three priests in the group, noted the impact made upon the students and himself by their first-hand view of one church's response to social injustice. When Fr. McNeill returned to ND in 1971, he spoke with CILA officers, interested faculty, and Msgr. Egan and Peggy Roach who had moved to ND to begin the "seeds" for the Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry. The times were ripe to explore what might be done on Catholic campuses to respond to some critical church documents: justice in the World and A Call to Action which urged the church to work feverishly for justice. The Catholic Committee for Urban Ministry (CCUM) was formed in the late sixties by Msgr. Egan and others as one response to this call. It seemed a natural outgrowth that meetings would be arranged between students and members of CCUM. In 1974, two ND students involved in CILA went to Cleveland to observe the work of Harry Fagan, a CCUM member. The visit proved so important that a theology course, the Urban Plunge, was designed the following year, fully supported by CCUM. Applicants for the Urban Plunge mcreased immensely and the depth of student inquiry prompted Professors Swartz, Roos, and McNeill to tievelol? a 3 credit course, the Unseen City, to explore questions of a theological, polittcal, or economic nature raised during the UP. Since then, other classes and programs have been developed. The center for Exl?eriential Learning began to help coordinate UP and other experiential learnmg related to values and justice education. Two one-credit courses, Church and Social Action (ND) and Religion and Valu~s (SMC) owe their inception to the Up. The Career Values Exploration--summer interviewing on ethics and values related to employ­ment, and this year's new Summer Service Projects sponsored by Alumni Clubs, have arisen from ideas of UP veterans. · . Growing numbers of graduates who made an UP have found employment in social jusuce fields, often working with C~UM contact people. Twelve CCUM organizations have offered jobs to interested graduates this year. The ND Placement Bureau has begun setting up a resource center and staff person to assist students of all backgrounds and majors who are interested in full-time social justice work. HOPE AND PEOPLE The predominate attitude of students after their Plunge experience is one of hope. Even though the South Bronx, for example, looks like a war zone, students emerged from that area hopeful because of the people they met who are working for its improvement. Many students express amazement that the church is actively p,resent in even the most dehumanizing situations. I asked Reg Weissert if students ever feel shattered. She explained the importance of follow-up. If a student indicated despair, guilt, or problems integrating experiences, a continued dialogue would be offered by the Center for Expenennal Learning and the Office of Volunteer Services. Reg is convinced that an extended follow-up would be beneficial for many students. She often asks students if they felt any danger during their Plunge. One student responded that on a visit to a prison, he missed obtaining his ID and it took over an hour to get his release. Students will be remembering their UP experiences for a long time, some even repeating the UP in different citi.es. But ~he synthes!zing _of experience, course work, environment, career cho1ce, and lifestyle chotce wtll contmue for years. Although a single plunge can never make a swimmer, a swimmer is never made without one. 
Social Concerns Film Series 

All The King's Men Breadand Chocolate 
Political questions are on the minds 
and lips of every Notre Dame student 
these days. Not only is 1980 an 
election year, it is also a year of 
international turmoil. Will there be a 
draft? Will women have to register? 
\X1hat will be the Sovlecs' next move? 
\\-'ill we gee our hoscagcs back alive? 
These are very real and serious 
questions thar cannot be answered by 
i<Jealisric solutions char may sound 
good on paper but are not realistic in 
scope. The answers to these ques­
tions will have to be formulated by 
C.aner and Congress. The quality of 
our leadership is very important. We 
need honest leadership chat will, as 
Superman put it, "fight for truth, 
justice, and the American Way." 
But whose truth? 
"All the King's Men" was a film th.tt showed that truth can be any lie that is told skillfully enough. In this film, which closely follows the life of former Louisiana political power Huey P. "Kingfisher" Long, a poor, honest hick farmer becomes a slick, smooth-talking governor who pro­mises his constituents social reform but achieves his ends through graft, lying, and dirty-dealing. He did keep his promises. He told the truth--his truth. But the cost to the state was great. The state was being controlled 
by a political machine that was virtually invulnerable. Social reform b~gan to mean good press, more votes, and large payoffs. Honesty, pride, and goodness (what unrealistic and impractical words to mention in a cynical essay!) seemed inconsiscent with good government, as many Americans feel today. As in the past, the cry for honesc ~overnmenc is loud and long. But is tt what we need? 

All of us seem to acknowledge that no politician can be totally honest-· dirt is a part of the job. The people can't know everything. Why bother chem with unim~orraoc faces? When we forgive the mherent weaknesses and potential failures of our leaders, we often give chem jusc chat much more rope to hang themselves--and us. "All the King's Men" indicated that goodness is not possible in government. Now, I may be cynical, but that attitude is roo much. We muse remember to view our leaders and our government neither optimist­ically or pessimistically realistic attitudes are healthier. Cool heads 
are needed to take action. Emotion­alism may win elections, but it will not stop the draft, get our people out of Tehran, or help Kennedy in the polls. 
"All the King's Men" is a_n ente~­taining film, although a btt pessi­mistic in scope. Is honesty what America needs? You better believe 
(continued on_Page 9] 
Director Franco Brusati's "Bread and Chocolate" is a humor­ous yet powerful exploration of what it means ro be "third world" in the heart of the "first world." 
Lookmg across the Atlantic fr~m America, "the melting pot," we carelessly accept the homogeneity of our European ancestry without dis­cerning the racial prejudice which ascribes the discovery of our country to an Italian sailing under a Spanish flag. Though we choose (and not widwur cause) to honor Columbus and his ancestry, Brusati's film makes it abundantly--and to a certain extenc terrifyingly--clear that the aryan Swiss (all of whom seem to speak German and to look blonde haired and fair s~inned) look upon their European compatriots from Italy, Turkey, Greece and Spain as third worlders. 
The title of the film itself is but one facet of this hard reality so brilliantly yet so delicately conveyed in this gem of a film. While the third worlders desperately compete with each other for subsistence (bread), all around them the Swiss luxuriate in superflu­ities (chocolate). The camera angles are another facet of this brilliant point: the Swiss are frequently seen from high angle shots while the third worlders are viewed from low angle (as when the camera moves down 

trom a "No Smoking" sign to Nino puffing away). At other times this hard reality is driven home by the camera jump from the opulence of the Swiss countryside, homes and restaurants to the cramped sterility of the Italians' barrack-like· quarters, . where the men must gratify them­selves with beer and song rather than 
home and family. 
The contrast between bread and 
chocolate, subsistence and luxury, 
third and first world, is stunningly 
embodied in the sequence where 
Nino, the decent, good humored, 
sensitive, intelli~ent _protagonist 
briefly joins a famJiy of "paisanos" whose life has degenerated to that of caged chickens. Brilliantly juxta­posed here is the ~od-like a~;>pearance of the Swiss farm owner's teen aged children and their friends swimmmg nearby, naked in the mythic splen­dour of a Botticelli Venus and Adonis on the one hand, and the caged Italians behind chicken-wire who dociley accept their fate like victims of the Nazi concentration camps on the other. The visual contrast is no less stunning than the subsequent emergence of Nino from a public bath cleansed of his Italian origins by blonde hair dye. But he soon realizes he can't be half-Italian (inside) and half-German(outside), and 1n a 
[continued on page 9] 



The Observer Friday,February 1,1980 
-page9 
-· 
LETTERSTO A LONELY1GQD 

Send In The Oowns 
Re_v. Robert Griffin 
I should be complaining to God for 
the inequalities of a lifetime by which 
I got cheated of having a Catholic 

chtldhood. At my age, in the well 
over-fifty group, I have nobody 
Catholic to blame for my hang-ups: 
no nuns, crippled in their minds by 

ignorance, who pounded my grade­
school knuckles mto jelly; no confes­
sors, offended by my "grocery list" 
of sins, who threatened me with 
punishments that could turn me into 
a toad; no mother, defenceless 
against her husband's lust, who grew 
neurotic from her need to use 

prohibited contraceptives. I'm not 
insensitive to the books Catholics 
write, complaining of the scars left on 
their lives by represstv.._ faith-practi­
tioners; I honestly reco~nize their 
genuine pain. Only someumes, when 
the horror stories are told, I'm 
puzzled by the hatred that folk­
Catholics have for the Church they 
were raised in. "Maybe," I think to 
myself, "I love the Church as I do, 
because I lack a background of being 
resularly beaten up by the nuns and 
pnests who hid their cruelties under 
mbes that they claimed were from 
God.'' 
I really like the Catholic Church. The Odd Fellows have a better time; Judaism is older, and Anglicanism is more fashionable. The Mormons take better care of their old people, and the Ivy Colleges have better libraries. Moslems also get to ­heaven, and the Buddhists are more qut•table, but I really like being a 
Catholic. The Pope seems preten­tious when he says he's infallible; but, my God, everybody is infallible today. If there's a mistake in account, it gets blamed on computer error. Computers are a convenient scape !Yoat, because, in an infallible age, n<;body has to admit that rhey personally goofed. 
On the radio just now, a preacher promised eternal salvation to all t~e listeners within the sound of hts voice. All those listeners had to do, the preacher said, was to kneel beside the radio, and pray: ''Lord Jesus, I accept you as my personal 
Saviour. I lay my sins on you, and I trust you to be my advocate with the Father. I know that through your mercy, I am saved. Your Spirit is filling my heart, and all my burden of sin, and every filthY. habit of a lifetime, is being lifted away by the power of the Cross." 
The radio preacher wanted the listeners to write to him, to tell him how they had experienced Jesus as the power of their salvation. MoAe­tary conrriburion could be enclosed in the letter, the preacher said, to help in the work of his radio ministry, and God would certainly bless rhe contri­butors in proportion to the size of their gifts. In return, the preacher would mail the listenns his own personal study of Biblical prophecy, revealing how God is at work, saving His children from the tribulations of these last days of earth, before the great judgment wmes upon our age, sentencing sinners to everlasting torment. 
I don't quarrel with radio preachers who claim the authority of the Word of God. I don't criticize Billy Graham seen n television, insistin that his several hundred converts from rhat evening's preaching are on their way to heaven, according to the consoling doc'rrine of the Pauline epistles and the Book of Acts. I just think that given a choice between the radio preachers and the pope, I prefer to go with the leader who makes more modest claims • 
In a Church remarkable for how silly its Human Element can be, I count myself as one of the Clowns, more clumsy than clever, capable of prat­falls lacking in grace that land me flat on mv face. In the Church, pope.s 
may come, popes may go, with 
··send in the Clowns" as the theme song ofpapal elections. Iflefr around long enough, the poor dears may take pratfalls of their own; perhaps that's what keeps the Holy Ghost so busy. I d.m' t tru';;t the popes td · do my thinking f1,1r me; God never asked me to be faithful to another creature's insights. Alii ask of a pope is that he keep rhe Church honest, and that through his organization, he keeps me honest; that is, faithful to the Gospel and th'e tradition that flows from the Gospel. As a Catholic capable ofklutziness, I can imagine a dozen ways to make my personal commitments more generous, and a hundred ways to make the Gospel relevant to an unchurched genera­tion. For a wild example: caviar and champagne, sipped from my lady's slipper, could indeed be the elements of a Eucharist for the crowd at the Stork Club; but would it play at the Praeroria as a Catholic Mass? Playing at the Praetoria may not be an infallible test of a legitimate liturgy; but a personal theology may begin to ask itself some honest 

questions when it is bounced off the 
obduracy of a Pontiffs no-no., 
I know a young woman ordained as a 
mimster in one of the traditional 
denominarions of Protestant New 
England. "At my ordination ser­
vice," she said, ·"l asked for a 
celebration of the Eucharist, and I 
insisted that they use wine at the 
blessing of the cup.'' 
"Otherwise," I said, church-wise, 
'' thev would have used grape juice?'' 
"O~herwise, they wouldn't have 
used anything," she said. "They 
would have celebrated Communion 
with the cup left empty.'' 
'.'One has always heard," I said, 
"that in some of the Protestant 
churches, Welch's has done for grape 
juice what the Christian Brothers 
have dune hr wine.'' 
"In mv cburch," she said, "we 
ordinarily use neither grape juice nor 
wine. The Congregation is merely 
embarrassed by the Eucharist, view­
ing it as a throwback to some ritual of 
cannibalism. They find themselves 
morl' ar peace with an empty 
Communion cup." 
'fou have to feel sorry for a Church, 
claimin~ to be the true faith, that has 
to orda:n its Human Element, not 
realiy sure of what the consequences 
wi·ll be. You feel even sorrier for a 
church that is embarrassed by its own 
C(:mmunion cup. 
Maybe, lacking a Catholic child­hood, I ran appreciate the uncertain faith of a Communion ritual more personally than I can dread the chanciness of ordaining the Human Element. 
....King's 
[wntinued from page 8] 
it. But more than that nght now, we need action. And if the wrong action is taken, we all better change our action to one that is more practical-­hitting our knees .. 

Dale Robinson 

_.. __ .._._l_ &-&I .._,..-c; 
• • .and Chocolate 
(contznued from page 8 ] shocking gesture of guilt inspired self-mutilation he bashes his face into the mirror in which he recognizes his self-betrayal. 
There is no disguising the fact that in Switzerland, dark-skinned, dark­haired, swarthy Europeans are third 

world. (Even the term "third world" is implicitly bigoted: who wants to be second or third rarher than firsr?) Swiss hate Italians, even northern Italians dislike the southern. In one case it's political, in another geo­graphical, in still another religious or social. Perhaps worst of all, it's unconscious; we do it, here in America, too, without realizing ir: In the flier sent to faculty and students describing the Social Concerns Film Series "Bread and Chocolate" is grouped under films from rhe U.S.A. 
and Europe (the first world) while the Cuban "Lucia," made a mere 90 miles from our border by people of European apcestry, ts "Third World.'' The problem is by no means as foreign as It might seem. 

Gene M. Bernstein 


WhatS All This, Then? 
PERFORMANCE--ON CAMPUS 
concert on Friday, February 1, at 8:00 
p.m ACC The famed Boston Pops bring their music to Notre Dame. Concert on Sunday, February 3 at 7:00p.m. in the Library Auditorium. A Gospel music program, part of the Black Cultural Arts Festival. concert on Sunday, February 3, at 8:00p.m. in Washington Hall. Will Ackerman and Rick Walters-Acous­tic Guitar. Admission $2.50. 
CINEMA--ON CAMPUS 
An American in Paris on Friday, February l, at 7:00, 9:15, and 11:30. Carrol Hall (SMC). A musical with Gene Kelly and Leslie Caron. MyFairLady, on Saturday, February 2, at 7:00 and 10:.00. Carroll Hall (SMC). Rex Harrison and Audrey Hepbum star in this delightful must­cal about a man who tries, Pygmalion style, to turn a flower girl into a lady. With Wilfrid Hyde White. 
'Casablanca, on Wednesday and Thursday, February 6 & 7, times unavailable. Engineering Auditori­
um. Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman. 

J~ 
. 

'r""'' 
CINEMA--OFF CAMPUS 
The jerk at 7:30 and 9:30. University 
Park I. Steve Martin. Also starring 
Bernadene Peters and a dog who has 
more talent then Martin. . Going in Style at 8:00 and 10:00. 
University Park II. George Burns, 
Lee Strasberg, and Art Carney. 
The Electn·c Horseman at 7:15 and 
9:45. University Park III. The Black Hole at 7:20 and 9:20. Forum Cinema I. With Ernest Borgnine and Anthony Perkins. 

Kramervs. Kramer at 7:00 and 9:15. Forum Cinema II. Dustin Hoffman and Meryl Streep. Scavenger Hunt at 7:15 and 9:35. Forum Cinema III. An eccentric millionaire sends his heirs on a wacky scavenger hunt for rhe fortune. With Cloris Leachman, Scatman Cruthers and Richard Benjamin. Star Trek: The Motion Picture at 7:05 and 9:45. Town and Country I. With William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, and DeForest Kelly. 1941, at 7:25 and 10:00. Town and 

Gerard Curtin 
Country II. John Belushi and a lot of noise steal the show in this film about an imagined invasion of the Califor­nia coast by the Japanese during World War II. Wnh Robert Stack, Dan Ackroyd, and Lorraine Gary. 
The Rose at 7:05 and 9:30. Scottsdale Theater. Starring Bette Midler. 
PERFORMANCE--OFF CAMPUS 
AT VEGETABLE BUDDIES 
Otis Rush, Friday and Saturday, February 1 and 2. Otis Rush, a precision guitarist and blues singer, brings his music to Vegetable Bud­dies. . · 
AT THE MORRIS CIVIC 
EUBIE 8:30 on Friday and Saturday, February 1 and 2, $10, $6, $4. Popular review of the works of Eubie Blake, a 96-year-old composer of 1500 songs. Hit musical-a celebra­tion in song and dance of some of Eubie Blake's "Memories of You," "Charleston Rag," and I'm Just Wild about Harry." The program includes blues, jazz and ragtime music. New York Cast. Presented by Broadway Theatre League. Student discounts available. 
THEATRE 
South Bend Civic Theatre (The F1rehouse Theatre) presents Neil Simon's Calzfornia Suite. At 701 Portage Ave, February 7, 8, 9, 14, 15, 16, 21, 22, and 23. Curtain time is 8:.)0 p.m. Call 234-5696 or 233-0683 for reservations. 


-
, -.-----­The Observer Friday, February 1, 1980-page 12 
...Embassy 
[mntinued from page 1J 
the charges of repression. 
Guatemalan Jesuit priests recently published a document here accusing the government of repression against the coun­try's Indians and peasants. The document charged that "in our country there is kidnap­ping, torrure and assassma· tions'' and said government statistics for the first lO months of 1979 show more than 3,000 assassinations were committed by a clandestine paramilitary group called the Death Squad." 
FREE quart of RC Cola with any large Rizzopizzal 
277-4926 
WE DEliVER 
18439 State Road 23. South Bend 
In Concert 


THE BOSTON POPS 
with Conductor JOHN WILLIAMS 
TONIGHT 8PM NOTRE DAME A.C.C. prices: $10 lower arena (front stage) $7 lower arena (rear stage ) bleachers
$4 
TICKETS ON SALE ACC BOX OFFICE 9am thru Intermission GOOD SEATS AVAILABLE 

----------------·---------------­
In Addition to Our Regular Menu 

THE BOAR'S HEAD IS PROUD TO ANNOUNCE 
Its All New 

II SUNDAY CHAMPAGNE BRUNCH" 
CHOOSE FROM OUR BRUNCH MENU OF 
• Quiche Lorraine e Seafood ,Qu\che eHam Roll~ 

.eHam and Cheese Omelette 
All Dishes Served with Mixed ~J\R·S-HIJFJ()Fruit, Breakfast Potatoes, Hot Fruit Muffins and All the Champasne You can Drink. 
~ 

$5.95 
~' 

Brunc;h Available Be•ween 

•
. . ....

12 noon and 2:30pm 
""'~aka SP'"'" , 1 
CALL FOR RESERVATIONS 
U.S. 31 North, South
272-5478 ~!!BJ 

Last year the London-based human rights group Amnesty International launched a cam­paign to publicize and halt what It called repression in Guatema­la. The group blamed the continuing violence on "gover­nment, military and security forces and semt-clandestine 'death squads,' some of which operate with apparent govern­ment complicity." 
Two opposition leaders were killed in 1979. and Lucas Garcia faces mounting opposition in this country of 6. 5 million people. 
Prut't.ng that beautifying ofStepan Center is not impossible, construction ofthi-s years Mardi Gras structures is advancing smoothly to the theme of "On the town. " [photo !Jy Dave Rum back] 
/ 

6vacancies open 



Alumni certify candidates 
by Bn'dget Beny 
. The Notre Dame Alumni As­
sociation has certified twelve 
candidates for six vacancies on 
the board of directors. 
The voting will take place over a three month period. The winners will be announced March 11. 
Ballots are sent out to all Alumni who contributed money in the previous calendar year. Although the computing center tabulates results during the customary three rnonth return period, confidentiality is kept until the ~nnouncement dare. 
The Nominating Committee selects twelve candidates at each fall meeting after having reviewed biographica~ fJrH\£1jO· 1vtded by John Cackley, execu-· tive dire.cror of the Alumni Association. 
Although any of more than 60,000 alumni may nominate a 
Christian broadcasters spread GoodNews over 11Electric Church" 
WASHINGTON (AP) . Cole~ti­
vely,"" they are known as the 
"Electric Church," and by any 
measure their power and in­
fluence is growing. 
To the chagrin of some estab­
lished religions, the ministers 
who use radio and television to 
preach their message now claim 
a weekly audience of more that 
129 million. 
They are using an estimated 
$600 million worth of TV time 
alone this year. 
While critics complain the "Electric Ministers" undercut local church attendance, the people behind such shows as the '"PTL Club" and the "Old Time Gospel Hour" say they are serving both churchgo­ers and people who feel uncom­~onable with established relig­IOn. 
Last" week, most of the nation's Christian broadcast· ers · predominantly fundament­alist Christians · met in Wash­ington to discuss not only their message, but how it should be presented ro America as well. 
Ron Mighell, a convention delegate and the station man­ager of WTGN radio in Lima, Ohio, agreed: "If they mention money more than God, you should watch out." 
He heard little disagreement from the more than 2,000 dele­gates. 
''A television station or the Oval Office is a powerful po­dium," the President said. ''Our influence as individuals can be great ... Even more than those in commercial broadcasting, you must take the time, pay the price, to give ... the true message.'' 
Use of the airwaves for reli­gion is nothing new, last week's meeting was the 37th annual convention of the Na­tional Religious Broadcasters. 
But the evangelical broad­casters meeting here think the 1980's, through the sophisticat· ed use of TV and satellite tech­nology, will offer ''A new poten­tial for reaching the world with the Good News of]esus candidate, most proposals come through Alumni Club Presi­dents, past and present mem­bers of National Boards and Class Officers. 
One director is chosen from each of the fifteen defined regions every three years and each year one director is chosen "at large." Members of the board, then, serve for three years, meeting on campus three ttmes a year. 
Although the Association's basic concern is Alumni pro­grams, they are, ac~ordmg to L.ackley, interested in the pres­ent student body and have been quite active in fund raising campatgns. 
Candidates in J{egion One, encompassing the northwest states, are Richard Gilleran of Spokane. Washington and .Jerry McGlynn of San RafaEL • Calfornia. 
Graduates in the Illinois area, Region Six, will be represented by Associate .Judge Charles Perrin of Pekin or William Cahiii.J r., of Lincolnwood. 

Region Eight, Indiana-Ken­tucky areas, will see a contest between)erome Kearns, Mish­awaka, and Romano Mazzoli of Louisville. 
The Ohio-Pennsylvania areas, Region Nine, will be represen­ted on the ballot by Francis Hopkins from Fairview Park, Ohio, and Michael .Joyce of Pittsburgh. 
Candidates in t'he Texas-Okla­homa area, REgion Thirteen, are) ohn McKenna of Houston and Walter Nasherr, .Jr., of 
Oklahoma City. 
Candidates for at-large repre­sentation on the board, limited to graduates of the last five years, are Thomas Clements of St. Paul, Minnesora.and Parri­ca Dondanville from Spring­ftcld, Illinois. 
Christ," as Ben Armstrong, executive director of the group, put it. 
Of the more than 8, 700 radio stations in America, 1,400 are now religious. Of the roughly 1,000 commercial and educa­tional TV stations at least 30 are religious, as are 66 of the nation's cable TV operations. 
A radio station is considered "Religious" if it devotes eight or more hours a week to reli­gious programming. For TV, the standard is one-third of the broadcast week plus one-third of prime time. 
By any account, Christian Broadcasting has become one of the fastest growing sectors of electronic communications. 
''God gave television primar­ily for the propagation of the Gospel," said Falwell. 
"Most of the country is fed up with the cesspool and the sewers that run throu~h our liv· ing rooms in prime ttme. Our problem is no longer one of buying time, but program con­tent.'' 

. 
The Observer Friday, February 1, 1980-page 11 

Attorneys contend concussion affected actions of alleged deserter 
Election rules
• 
SBP/SBVP RULES fOR ELECTION 

1. 
The el@ctiona vill be held cturing tht-last week of February each year. (The exact date vill be-announced. ) 

2. 
Petitions to run for office may be picked up at the Student Government Offici:! tvo veeks before election day. Petiti?ns ar"" to be returned approximately a veek later, at vhich tim!!' there vill be a mandatory candidates meetin1;. Tvo hWldred signatures vith respective !.L. numbers vill be needed fort~~ nomination or SBP/SBVP candidates. Students may sign more than one candidate's petition. Only official petitions may be circulated. A list of' all .the finalized candi­dates vill be published in the ~­


3, A $75.00 limit on campaign expenses vill be set for all SBP/SBVP candidates. Outside contributions count tovard campaign expense limit. Receipts for all uterials purchased are required by the Election Committee. All receipts must be received by the cmrmittee before the distribution of materials can begin. 
A. copy or any and all posters nrust be submitted to the Election Committee be­fore posting. These may be left in the Ombudsman Office. Posters may not be l&rger than 11 inches by 17 inches and they cannot be placed on outside v&lls, trees, or any exterior areas according to Universit:y rules. Posters are to be displl!l¥ed inside the dormitories and inside public buildings. No posters are &!loved in our outside the dining halls. Sandvich style signs are permitted. lo at ickWD adhesives may -be. used on any materials. No moving vehicles vith sound gear are &!loved, including sound trucks. Balloons are permissable. No sky\p'it ing and airplane banners are allowed. 

4. The only thing vhich can be dona.ted to a ticket without it being asseSfLed against their aper.ding limit is people's lllbor. All other donated services or materials vill be assessed against the candidate 1 s spending limit at their fair nmrker 
value. 

5. 
It a c&ndidate fdls to disclose the proper cos.t of any campaign mateJ•ials, he vill be penalized. Penalty: Forfeiture of candidacy. 

6. 
lo vrite-ins or blank ballots are &lloved. They vill not be counted. N"o en­dorseJMmts may be given by the HPC a.s a body, or by the Student Governl1-tent, Student. Union, or the Board of Comm.issioners. No endorsements may be sought from any freshmen. Candidates accept media endorsement at their ovn risk. 

7. 
Candidates cannot use any gathering of an organiution for campaign purposes, eve-n if they are a member of that organization. Penalty: Fifty percent. of cupaign expenses vill be deducted. 

8. 
SBP and SBVP c&ndid&tes vill be held responsible for the actions of anyone in their campaign or organization. 

9. 
lo a:e III&Y disclose his or her intention to run for the office of ss:/SBVP o.ny 


sooner th&n the beginning of the spring semester. Penalty: Tventy-F1ve per cent ot campaign expenses vill be deduct.ed. 

J.U. "o one may orsaniz.e a ca~~~.paign coramittee sooner th&n four veeks pri.Jr to election day. Organizing a catapatgn committee includes solicitinp: any help whatsoever, seeking endorsements, or seeking commitments for participation or support. Penalty: Twenty-five per-cent ·of campa~gn expenses vill be de­
ducted. 

11. 
No candidate ma.y solicit help or support from a person in an official organ­iz.ation (including Student Govern~nt, Student Union, or KPC) until th•~ actual Cllllllp&igning period Jegins. Penalty: Twenty-five per cent of crunpai"-~xpen~e~• vill be deducted. 

12. 
The balloting areas must be clear of campaign literature or "vote-getters". Election Day signs vill be permitted and provided. The-Election Committe~ rl:'­flerves the right to be the final arbiter and chan~e the penalties bR.!lecl on the degree of the offense. 

13. 
Only an official candidate can CBII'Ipaign and completed petitions are neeJ.<.-d .._,_, make a candidacy official. Therefore, c8.1!1paigntn~ may not begin until the petitions are returned to the Election Committee at thl.' candida.te's meetinr:, approximately one veek before the primary election. CIU!Ipair:ninp is any public c;ontact--enpecia.lly the distribution of rosters. buttou:J, ril.:lbou~. f'~(' .• !1.:'1!.! the malting or speeches--used to solicit votes, except tr. the .!in•ributio:l of official petitlons. 


SCHEDULE OF DATES AND DEADLINES 
January 27 ,  1980  'I'O 'bill QRRQ~ (0 1"¥1  
February 5,  1980  ~e 'be Mtna~:tA:eea {G' /.~  
February 13 ,  1980  5:00P.M.  
February 17, 1980 !"ebruary 24, 1980 February 25, 1980 February 27, 1980  12:01 A.M. 12:00 midnight  

Organizational meeting 
for all persons inter­ested in running for SBP/ SBVP 
Mandatory meeting for all potential SBP/SBVP candi­dates. O:fficial candidacy petitions will be passed out. 
All signed petitions muflt be returned 
Campaigning begins 
Campaigning ends 
Primary Election 
SBP/SBVP Runoff Election 

SMC Spiritual Commission to support foreign missions 
By Kathy Cawley 

A newly formed organization stemming from the Spiritual Commission at St. Mary's is planning to send financial sup­port to the Holy Cross Sisters abroad. A· prt>"~nt, these Sisters are in Cat ia, Brazil, Peru and other co~.o , ies. The Students' Mission Care (SMC) is the group that intends to initiate a program where stu­dents pledge to donate a certain amount of money each month. 
This money will go directly to the Holy Cross Sisters who are 
• 
working  in  all  areas  of  the  
world.  One  member  of  the  
group expressed her goal  for  

the project as ''thinking global­ly while acting locally." 
On Feb. 4 and 5, pledges will be taken at the cafeteria. A collection committee will then collect this money in the middle of each month. 
Kathleen Hackett, the chair­person of this program, hopes for campus-wide support. Any­one interested in helping is encouraged i:o call Kathleen Hackett (4154) Marita de la Cotera (4986) or Anne Hesslau (5409). 

CAMP LEJEUNE. N.C. (AP) Marine Pte-. Robert Garwood, who faces allegations of deser­tion s.nd collaboration with the enemy in Viernan:, suffered a head inju: ·.1 anci complained of headaches before ~hipptng our for the war zone, the first witness to testify in Garwood's defense s_aid yesterday. 
Garwood, 33, a native of Adams, Ind., returned to the United States last year after nearly 14 years in Vietnam. A hearing is underway at Camp Lejeune to determine whether there is enc.mgh evidence for a court-martial. 
Staff Sgt. John E. Peterson took the stand yesterday and told of Garwood's complaints while both were stationed on Okinawa in 1965. 
Peterson said Garwood com­plained of headaches, dizziness and blurred vision and occa­sionally had to be relieved ofhis duties as a jeep driver because of his complaints. 
Defense attorneys contend Garwood suffered a concussion which affected his actions later in Vietnam. 
Under cross-examination, Peterson, who is now stationed at Camp· Lejeune, said many jeep drivers on Okinawa com­plamed of headaches because they drove in the hot sun. 
Yesterday's session was de­layed nearly seven hours be­cause of a power outage in the courtroom building and a delay 

SkiOub announces tripplans 
The Notre Dame I Saint Mary's ski club has unveiled plans for a trip to Killin~ton, VT, from March 29 to Apnl 5. The vacation includes five nights of lodging, five days of skiing, a dance, a keg party, free movies and live bands at every bar. The price is $99.50, with meals included for an additional ·$40 and transporta­tion via bus for another $40. The trip is available to all students and friends. Reserva­tions must be made by the second week of February. For more information call Chris 
Richard  (3200),  Dennis  
Brennan  (277-3209)  or  Chris  
Rigaux (3414).  

The ski club will hold a meeting (vnight at 7:30 in the UFow ne f. Thl' ~rre t~ discuss the _.dungton trip, upcoming elections, the sched­uled happy hour and future trips. Arrangements are being made for a Wednesday night visit to Swiss Valley, a weekend trip on March 1 to Boyne Mountain and other . local excurswns. 
Mardi Gras moves OC dealer school 
The rime and location of the off-campus Mardi Gras dealer's school has been changed to 10 
p.m. Sunday at Senior bar. 
A happy hour is scheduled to follow t!le meeting. 
in tracking down Peterson·,-who 
was working at his normal job 
on the base. 
The hearing was expected to 
end before the weekend. After 
tesimony ends, Maj. T.B. _Hamilton .Jr. will recommend to 
the commanding general of 
Camp Lejeune whether there 
should be a court-martial. 
Hamilton told reporters yes­
terday that he probably would 
announce his recommendation 
immediately after the end ofthe 
hearing. 
Peterson said he witnessed 
one accident involving Garwood 
when Garwood, trying to evade 
military police while returning 
late from liberty on Okinawa,. 
jumped out ofa moving taxi and 
hit his head on a stone wall. 
The blow left Garwood "like a 
football player that had just got 
blind-sided,'' Peterson said. 
Peterson said he was told by 
other Marines · that Garwood 
later fell out of his bunk and hit 
his head on a foot locker and on 
another occasion intentionally 
beat his head against a metal 
locker until other Marines re­
strained him. 
Peterson said Garwood told 
his fellow Marines on Okinawa 
that he was scheduled to go 
back to the States for examina­
· 


tion and treatment of his injur­ies, bur Garwood later told Peterson in Vietnam that he had never recetved that treat­ment. 
Under cross-examination, Peterson said the unit in which he and Garwood served on Okinawa knew before any of Garwood's accidents that they would probably be sent to Vietnam. 
FACILITIES MANAGER 

Graduate in Architecture, Electri­cal or Mechanical Engineering with strong interest in construc­tion. Responsible for existing facilities and equipment in 10-15 store region. Seek individual with capability to develop energy con­servation programs. Requires ef­fective communication, negotia­tion a'ld people skills. TGI FRI­DAY'S is Dallas-based requiring relocation. 50o/o flight travel, ex· cellent benefits and growth with an unusually innovative corpora­tion. Send resume to Personnel,-P.O. Bo{ 400329, Dallas, Texas 75240. 
ACROSS 
4. Where can you take summer courses in Washington, D.C.7 
8. you­
can't refuse. 
20. What CUAoffers this summer. 
DOWN 
9. Whenw:11 we seE! you at CUA7 




CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY OF AMERICA 
P.O. Box 75 Washington, D.C. 20064 • (202) 635-5256 
Please· send me a Summer School Catalogue 
(Na.-..el 
(Address) 

• 
The Observer Friday, February 1, 1980-page 10 

Airlines infuneral business 


PLACEMENT BUREAU 
MIAMI (AP) -Mention Jim Wilson and you will get the quickest, most sympathetic ser­vice American Airlines has to offer. 
"Jim Wilson" is a coded signal that tells airline person­nel a bereaved mourner is shipping the body of a loved one home for burial, and that sensitive handling is required. 
Every month, thousands of people -retirees, vacationers and employees who have been transferred -die in places far from home. Airlines and funer: al directors help them make the last trip back. 
It has be<·omt· a source of significant business for airlines that fly from sunny retirement areas such as Florida, Arizona and Southern California to the Northeast and Midwest. Delta, American and Eastern officials estimate their airlines each handle 22,000 to 25,000 bodies a year. United estimates its annual tmal at 11,000. 
At United Airlines, the code for such cases i5-N-1. ·Other' lines, although they have no specific codt<s such as N-1 or "Jim Wilson."say every body shipment gets the same special treatment. 
·''1 im Wilson' is a program cod.e.'' said Ralph Theile, direc­ror of freight sales and plan­
ning at American's Dallas headquarters. 

''All of our telephone people immediately recognize that that's a funeral director and there's a bereaved person there. The program is designed . . . to eliminate as much commotion and detail as pos­sible." 
Jim Pogue, manager of cargo services at Delta Air Lines' headquarters in Atlanta, ac­knowled~ed that shipping bodies "1s good business. It has to be done . and the railroads, trucks and buses won't handle them.'' 
Nearly a third of the 18,906 people who died in the Miami area during 1978 were buried in other states, according to Dade Counry statistics. Exact num­bers are not available, but funeral directors around Florida say about a third -and in some places as many as half-of their clients decide on burial outside rhe state. 
In Miami Beach and other areas with large n:urement communities, it is not uncom­mon to find local telephone directQry listings for funeral· directors from New York, Chi­cago, Philadelphia and Boston. 
In Clearwater, Fla., a trio of businessmen developed a com­pany -Yorkshire Liyery Inc:;. ­
''Valentine Sweetheart Special'' 
*Candy withflowers $4.50 &up *Roses $24.50doz. -tc Special lowpricesfor corsages 

& boutonrtieres 

The Plants and 
FlowersSho 
Lemans Hall SMC 
Phone: 284-4841 
Delivery available 
Allorders must be placed by Feb. 8 


Hughes Aircraft Company? 
Don't think aircraft when you think of Hughes (we don't build them). fhink soteiHtes. Think the first working 'laser. Think the Norway-ta-Turkey electronic air 
defense system for NATO. 
Think you'd like to talk with the electronics leader? We'd like to talk with you before graduation. Ask your placement oNice for dates the Hughes recruiters will be interviewing on campus. 
r------------------, 
HUGHES 
• t
L------------------J
Cteating a new world wirh electronics 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNilY EMPlOYER M/F 

that specializes in driving cof­
fins from funeral homes to the 
airport. 
Yorkshire Livery also rents hearses to funeral homes and makes the special cardboard­and-wood cartons in which the coffins are shipped. 
''I'd say we do the driving for 
50 percent of the funeral homes 
in the area,'' said co-owner 
Donald Kuenn. 
Arranging for burial halfway 
across the country increases the 
cost of a funeral, of course. 
Flying a coffin from Miami to 
New York costs about $150, 
depending on irs weight. 
''People would just like to go 
back home again and an extra 
$100 l)r $200 doesn't make that 
much difference," Kuenn said. 
Add plane fare for anyone 
accompanying the casket and 
whatever the second funeral 
home charg-es for irs services. 
Until the airlines rook over the 
business, a coffin traveled for 
the price of two first-class train 
rickets and had to be escorted. 
In most cases, the funeral home makes all the reserva­tions, puts the coffin m an airline-approved carton and takes it to the airport. There, the coffin waits on a covered baggage cart until passengers' bags and mail have been loaded. 
It is towed slowly to the plane, where airline ramp workers load it gently, with the head toward the plane's nose. Noth­ing can be loaded on top of the casket and it is not to be dumped. 
"Most people who'd see one on a cart under the airplane wouldn't recognize it for what if is," said Delta's Pogue. "It doesn't require any special handling, other than the normal render loving care. Bur we keep in mind that the accompanying family member may be watch­ing our the window." 
Air shipment of the body may delay rhe funeral by a day, but it does not take longi u M 
0

"You could die ne}e this morning and be buried up north tomorrow,'' said Sonny Levitt, a Hollywood, Fla., funeral di­rector. 
Bur flying the body "home" is not for everyone. Funeral di­rectors said more and more people who have lived in Flor­Ida for a while are deciding ahead of time that they want to be buried here. 
''The emotional strain can be roo much," Levitt said, espec­ially for an elderly person who has to go through the stress of making funeral arrangements for a loved one. 
"Unless they'r<' .1g kck for vAlle ser. .. rn. . asons-like to be buried next to someone -I don't recommend It." 
...Winamac 
[continuedfrom page 1] 
vicinity is a nearby Dairy Queen. 
One of the favorite spots for lunch is Rich's Cafe, a small tavern where, amidst beer plaques and tractor trophies, one can enjoy a few beers while munching on barbequed chicken, chili, or other specialties. 
The regulars in Rich's don't seem to talk much about the trial unless they are asked, and even then the conversations often steer toward local matter. Roy Crist, an electrician, said "I don't really care about it (the trial). You know, we fixed the courtroom up real mce for the trial. When it's all over, I guess we'll have a nice courtroom anyway.'' 
Another man at the bar commented, "It c. 1 go either way as far as I'm concerned. We don t need all the cameras and reporters around, but I guess they don't make any difference as long as 
M.an Bulldlnc 
Joe INTERVIEWs AlE oro ro SDIIOU MID GllADUATI snroUTS u ntr: KAY AIID Aucusr 
CLASSES ••••.••.AllY WHO llfTIIID TO KAVI INTUVIDIS MUST NAY! A CCIU'LETKD PIOPlLI (RlGISTRA.TIM) 01 FILE AT nt1 PUCDC!NT IUUAU ••••••••• R!CISTIATtOM, lii'I'IIVII\I SIGN-UP SHUTS AND EltPt.OTn LITIIATUU AU Ill 100M lll, AIIIIIJIISTtATIOM ILDC. \ 
COMPLETE EMPLOYER SRCIFICATIC.S otl D!CilllS, JOI nn.u. I..OCATI'*I AIID ClTUIURir AJlE GlYEIII Ul ntE PUCDIDIT MAIIUAL, EXCEPT POl 1'1105! EM'LD'f'!U ADDED SUlCI 1111 PRINTING OF THE tWIUAL. 
THE SIGN-UP P!llOD IS I'ROH 8:00A.M. TO 5:00 P.K., tllNDAY THaDUQC TKUUDAY, IICIDIIKi FEBRUARY -4FOR INTERVIEWS 111! WEU. OP niiUARY 11. 
PLEASE NOTE lKT!RYIEW LOCATlO.S AT TIME OF SlQI-UP. 
YOU HUST SIQI FOI YOUR IIITERVIEVS P!UOMLLY. 
DATI 
ALjM•ICUI­
Fe-b. 11 
M'"OTi-:-­
I 

F 6 R t...zarua CO!U?any IliA ond MilA. 
Mc:Donald 'a Corporatlon I in Acct. 
Otb Elevator COIINPY 1 in all £aar dhclpltnaa 
a.ubnd Divtaion.. Zenith a.dto CorporattCI'D B in KEtO. I in ME vtth prehrenee for ..chine de•tp. 
Saraent ud LUDdy 1M in !!, H!, AS, Q(Strurtunl), KilO. 
X 

United Sutea Cxpa• Co!taoY I ln Acct. 

Georaa wuu.. Coll•p
X 
X 

1. Craduat• School in lAhun •d !nvlraa.aatal a.Murcea Adlilt'l18tfAt10ft 1 rhJ'81Cal ldueatiOft t Sovlal Wol'lr., Adl81ate­tfAt10ft/tJ"raanhatlOft8l lahavtor, Coun..llna Pa7cholop, Enrche Pbyaiotou. 2.1 in all underanduat• dlecl• pUn.... ]. Down•n Cro••• 11•. 
t 
feb. 11/lZ !:fon/Tuu.­

~ ~~on!a c.,.pony 
~ 
Bin CE. 
Feb. l2 Tues. 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 

Aetna Life and Cuu.alty. Croup Divhlon B in all dhdpl1nea. MBA. 
Cantos, Inc. B in L~b. Aru and Ius. A.d. 
X 
X 
X 

IBH Corporation BH in all dbctpllnea. For: Data Proceaains Dlvlaion­Co~nputu ~r-ketins/Syuess Enrr. Harkerina rep• and Syauma Engrs for intenMdiate and lara• abe c011putera. 
X 
X 
X 
X 

BH in all diadpllnea for Computer Harkettna/Syate­Divhion -General Syauru Divlalon for H.arketina Repa of amall, mediwn and larg• buaineas operation• and 
Systems Enara. 
BH in all dhciplin•• (bu.ine.. and tech dlaclpllne~a f!Uhrred) for Office Prod\lcu-Salea/Marketin& of word Processing Products and Syatell'l.s. 
B in Acct for Accountina opportunities, Charlotte. NC 
BM in IE, Camp Sci, Hath for O.atan/O.vdop.ent/Kanufactur­ing En&ineering 6o Progra-ing. 
:'< 

Procter l. Cuble Ccapan.I.:... Acconnt1n1 ' Finane. Dhial•· ~t-~o}.l•r' IJ Of flee. (cha-.;g;d From hh. 1]) BRA and HBA. B in Lib. Arts with strona backaround lp 
Act.t ur F'in. 
X
X 

STepan Chemical Co!!!2.!!!1. BH in ChE and Cham. PhD in Orsanic ch... 
X
X 

The Torrington Co.pany B in ME. 
X 
X 

Xerox Corporation BH in all diacipllnes for Sales (ONLY) Chana• fr011 Manual. 
X X 
X
X 
~~ 

GTE Autolll8tic Electric Inc. 8 In EE. Camp Sci. 
Wt•d. 
X 
X 

CTE Automatic El~cuic Labontorlea, Inc. IIHD in EE. r1ath/C0111p Set. 
X 
X 

McCarthy Brothera Company B in CE, ME, EE. 
X 
X 
X X 
X 

Mobil Oil Corporation B in ChE, HE. EE (new). PhD. tn Organic Che~~. B in L1h. Arts and Bus. Ad. 
Motorola, Inc. Automotive Products Divi~sion BH in U. 
Feb. 13 
X 

Sikoraky Aircraft BH in AE, ME, Hath. 
X 
X 
Feb. 13(14 Wed/Thurs. 

General [)ynaic• Corporation BMD in AE, EE, HEIO, HE, CE. Engr Sci. 
X 
X 

Procter &. Gamble Company. Sales Manasement B in all disciplines. H8A. 
X 
X X 
X 

Penucel, a Johnson and Johnson Company All BBA. 
X 
Feb. lll Black &. Veatch Consulting Engineern BK 1n KE, ££. tiEEO, Conp Scf. 

T""hurs. 
X 
X 
X 

General Moton Corporal ton 
DlvlaJons: Delco Electronics. 8 in Lib. Aus, Bus. Ad. for Salaried Personnel Representative. B in EE and HBA for Buyer -Electronic Components. HBA for Manufactur­ing Forvard Planning Analyst, Sales Engr. Personnel Systt't!IS Analyst, EDP Financial Syatems Anal yet. 8 in EE and HBA for Supervisor -Product Engr. 8 in Acct for Accountant. At-DELCO. B tn Hkt for Salea Rep. B in Acct for ~nt. 8 in rtn for Inventory Control Expediter. (The ~bove Divisions are nt;tw since printing of Place:ent Supplement. 
X
X 
X 

they don't hury anybody.;' 
Although the trial has been getting national press coverage, three county pu~licati?ns, based m Winamac, have devoted relatively IJttle space to the proceedings. 
According to one girl at the Pulaski County journal, ''At first everyone was excited about it, but now it's just the same thing day after day.'' Contrary to the report published 10 Newsweek recently, few people have capitalized on the trial's notoriety. "No one is making any real money off it. One guy renting ~"OOms is charging for one week what he used tO set for twO months, 
but restaurants and bars still have the  same  
price." 
One  spin-off of  the  trial  is  getting  some  

attention, however. Several establishments are selling bags of "Fame" brand pinto beans, labeled "Souvenir of Famed FORD PINTO TRIAL • Winamac." All proceeds go to chariry. 

--~---------------------------------~\---,. 
I. 

The O!>se~er-Sp(>rts I:riday,February 1, 1980-page 13 

GRAND OPENING!!!!
SMCspikers impro,re in off-season 
... 

For Petro's Irish 



Co.-:-qtptain Cashman plays vital role 
.... .• ..1 . . . .. . 
Iii' -~ ~ • ~ -. 

by Mark Hannuksela opening win over Marion Col-
Sports Wn.ter ,; ~t: leget' · And no, she's not a 

"Let's run Texas," yells the r~~ounding po':'er either (at 5' 
Iri_sh captair: as she cr,?s.ses -~he .. 4 .,,:Sh(:-. _doesn t get ~any of 
midcourt Jme.. Her ·direction those, ~!though she. did have 
sends ber teammates into a five ~gamst Valparaiso). <;:as~­
whirlwind of motion, ·~setting rna~ s. strength doesn t he m 
picks, cutting through lanes, s~~ttsttcs.. 
running an 'offense which is, ·Mo!~Y ts our lea;~er o? the 
designed to get somebody an court, says Petro. Tha,t s her 
easy two P?ints. number one role. She s our 
The captatn spots a teammate playm!lker · ~e t.~ok to her to 
who has just rolled off a pick, _get thmgs goul:g· ..,.. 
arid has broken open under the Cashman who transf.err~d. to 
Irish basket: At the same time, Notre Dame at the begmnmg of 
the defensive player begins to her s~phomore year, after 
recover. The timing between · spc:ndmg a ; year at Drake 
passer and receiver has to be Untversity, made her own as-
perfect. The captain throws the sessment of the role that she 
ball inside . . . fills. 
"Mols can really thread the "I guess my role on the floor is needle with a pass " stated ~,as a leader, in the sense that I coach Sharon Petro: "When make sure everyo,;e knows· she's on, there's just no stop-what defense or what offense ping her. She can get the ball we're going to use. I'm not the where-ever she wants it. With-quarterback · we have Mags out a doubt, she's one of the (Junior guard Maggie Lally) out 
best.!' there for. that." 
''Mols'' is senior co-captain An Economics major who hails 
Molly Cashman of the women's from Hopkins, Minnesota, 
basketball team. In this, her Cashman's role on and off the 
third year as a member of court is easily noticed by her 
Petro's team, Cashman has teammates. 
been a key force behind the "Molly is a good ballplayer 
Irish' drive to their current 11-4 and an excellent captain," says 
status. No, she's not a high freshman center Shari Matvey. 
scorer (her best effort of the "She assumes a lot of respons­
year was 11 points in a season ibility on the floor, and will 
by Kate Huffman Sports Writer 

Professional football players spend months at summer train­ing camps in order to prepare for their upcoming season. Major league baseball players travel to South America in the winter in order to improve their baseball expertise. Volleyball enthusiasts at Saint Mary's College are also working to improve their skills by off­season workouts. 
Beginning two weeks after the collegiate volleyball season ended, the Saint Mary's Vol­leyball Club began preparing for a series of United States Volleyball Association (USVBA) tournaments. The USVBA is an independent volleyball organi­zation not affiliated with any collegiate association. USVBA tournaments are arranged according to levels of skill and are divided into four divisions ­AA, A, B, and Junior levels \. AA being the highest level of skilL There is no age limit placed on USVBA members nor is there an experience require­ment. 
The Saint Mary's Volleyball Club is composed of 10 varsity players and two non-varsity players. 
Lisa Luber and Marybeth Brennan, both sophomores, were the non-varsity players selected. "I sayv both of them playing in the gym at one time or another and I invited them to try out for the Club," explained coach Erin Murphy. "They are both doing a very good job. 
"I wanted to keep the team together because our season ended in November and to wait until September to get together again would be ltke starting over.'' 
Murphy expressed satisfac­tion with the level of competi­tion the Club has experienced in USVBA competition, "We joined the groul.' (the USVBA) for the competition so they will get experience before the next · collegiate season. I think they will be pretty well seasoned by then. The level of competition is high of course, especially division AA, it is even tougher. As a matter of fact two of the AA teams I saw at the Kellogg tournament we competed in last weekend had players from the United States National team on their roster." 
The club has been competing in the Division A class thus far this season but Murphy feels it is difficult to compare USVBA competition to collegiate com­petition. "From what I have seen there are a few teams that could not compete with our collegiate com~etitilon but on the other hand there are teams made up of seasoned veterans who would dominate our colleg­iate schedule." 

William Rick Ackerman Walters 


"an evening ofacoustic guitar" 
Sunday, February 3 8:00 p.m. Washington Hall 
TICKETS AT STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE OR DOOR $2.50 PER PERSON 
sometimes even make her own says Petro. ''She helps me out a suggestions to Sharon. She also lot, and comes. up with an awful tries to motivate the team, and lot of valuable ideas. I really to keep t;s enthu:;ed, no matter value . her ·.opini'on. We lose who were playmg..Her Of,lly something when she's not out goa! for every game Is ~o wm. there." · We re rea~~y gomg to miss her Ironical.ly, basketball wasn't a next year.' . factor for Cashman when mak­
C~shman s fello~ c?·captam, ing .her decision to come to sc:nwr Jane Polttski, agrees Notre Dame: ":I,th Matvey. . "Bash:tball wasn't my real M?,IIY fills the r<;>le <;>f <;~pta~n concern at ,aiL· I didn't· know 
well, stated Polttskt. Shes anything al:iout the program very d~pendable, and always except that they had a team. In mamtams her composure on the fact, a friend I had here told me court. ~e look to her for that Saint_Mary' s was probably 
leadership._ She has good court be.tter, So I thought I could sc:nse, and Is. a lot of fun to pl~y probably play." With, expectally for the big She was right about playing, people, because we know she is and has started ever since she g~ing to get the ball to us. I has been here. thmk she would make a fine 
As for the remainder of the coach someday." season, Cashman has only one goal.
Besides being a fine passer 
and motivator, Cashman IS also a durable performer. In her three years as a member of the Irish squad, she has missed only one game, that coming 
earlier this season, because of 
BASEMENT, NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL
the death of her grandmother. 
LEGAL 6.10 & DEFENDER ASSOCIATION
Without her, the team lacked 
ROOM 8·12 283·7795
the direction and organization 
11am · 2pm Uf. · F>
which Cashman usually gives 
other times by appointment
them, and lost 65-49 to St. 
WE HANDLf ALL FINANCIALLY
Louis. 
"Molly is very knowledgeable QUALIFIEO STUDt.NTS & STAFF about the game of basketball,'' 
Last weekend the club com­
IRISHpeted in its first tournament of the season at the Cereal City Invitational in Battle Creek, Michigan. 





COUNTRY
The club played seven teams in the pool play tourna­
LOUNGE
ment before being defeated in the finals by a more seasoned club from Michigan. Murphy, 
Live Entertainment lly N.D. Students * 
howeve;-, was very pleased with the second place finish. "It was our first invitational so I was 
Dancing & Good Food 
very pleased with our play. It is a great st.art for our season.'' 


THIS WEEKEND : 
. ,Murp.rry · tommen<;led Marianne Viola, a freshman 
Stevenson, Berenato & Co. • • • MUSIC ! ! 
from Park Rid~e, Illinois, for her play· ' 'They couldn't 
Herbert & Natale • • • • • • COMEDY! • 
stop her," said Murphy. "She had an astonishingly high aver­
Located: 744 North N.D. AVE. 
age of kills on spike attempts. 
. Zl !.D.'S f"L~Ac:,£.
All we had to do was give her the ball and she put it away." 

''There is a lot of desire on this year's team and I really believe that we can win state (the AlA W Division III state tournament). I think that this is the year that we can ~o to the regionals-we have a good enough team ro do that.'' · 
Oh, and by the way, the Irish 
, scored on that pass. •'Basket by McManus, Cashman assist." 
-------.--...--.... ................_........._..._______,_
~ ---------------·-·--------------~---' 
--------·~·-----· -------...-...........,."" ' / 
The Observer -Sports Friday, February 1, 1980-page 14 
...Title IX 

[continued from page 16]  
Number ofvarsity athletes: Male: Female:  558-100% 489-88% 69-12%  
Number of scholarships Male: Female:  at  present:J48'-100% 148'-100% 0--0%  

Number ofscholarships t/Title IX was forced into action today [no cuts of non-revenue producing sports): 169 '-100% 
' Male: 148'-88% Female: 21-12% 

Number ofscholarships t/Title IX were implemented after the cuts ofscholar­ships to non-revenue male sports: JOB·-100% 
Pigeons  
" 0 0  0 0 0  0 0  0 c  0 0  c 0 "'  , " 0  0 0 0  0  0  0 00 t 0 0 ~0 0  C' ~ "' c  0  " e 0 0 0  


O'
c
0 
"
~
() 


(>
~ 
0
"' 

c 
()

0 
0 
0
"' 

The Daily Crossword 

2/1/80
© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 


Male: 95 '-88% Female: 13-12% 
·does not include scholarships to football players whose careers have been ended by injun'es. 
Now to try w make some sense out of all of this. 
One thing remains constant. Women make up about 12 percent of the population of Notre Dame varsity athletes. Therefore, according to Title IX, they are entitled to 12 percent of the University's scholarship dollars. 
Now, if the 40-scholarship cut goes through, the number of grants to which the women would eventually be entitled would drop from 21 to 13. If there was no 40-scholarship cut, but the decision was made to keep the total number of grants constant at 148', the women would get 18 and the men would be reduced to 130. 
If you want to figure this out in dollars and cents, you might stick an arbitrary value on a scholarship of $5,700 ($4,200 for tuition and fees and $1,500 for room, board and laundry). But if you think about it for a minute, you realize that granting an athlete this scholarship doesn't cost the University anywhere near $5,700. If I walked out on the streets of South Bend and picked up Joe Schmoe and put him five classes a week and s[ipped him on a few computer rosters, how much would it cost Notre Dame? This concert is referred to as a tuition waiver where the schoo basically incurs only the cost of the room, board and laundry. 
So for now, we sit and wait. Father Joyce assures us that within the next month or so he and the athletic board will have something to say on the matter. But you can rest assured that the eventual effects of Title IX will be in the back of their minds. 
. 
Last night 

by Jim McOure/Pat Byrnes Minnesota 74, Northwestern 64 
Creighron 73, Tulsa 55 


Seton Hall 73, Army 60 
0 0 0

0 0
C' 0 0
c 0 0
c 
c 0 0

0 0 0 
0 0
v 
0
0 0 
o• 
...Smith 
[continued from page 16] 
Badger goalie Roy Schultz probably will be in the nets both days while Smith will split the series with freshman Bob Me Namara and sophomore Dave Laurion. Both have been 

ACROSS 27 Entrance 52 Golf score 24 Full of Precious to Heaven 55 Crimson splinters stones 33 Diminishes jewel 25 Fruit pit 
5 News or 34 Frame for 60 Concerning 26 Time finger drying 61 Scottish periods 10 Lane of clothes youngster 27 Pairs song 35 Records, 62 Heraldic 28 Custom 14 Sailing for short device 29 Mr. Arden word 37 Hautboy .63 Abound 30 Man from 
15  Straight­ 38  Resides  
edge  39  Baking item  
16  Diving bird  40  Thus  
17  Shea sta­ 41  Well-loaded  
dium jewel?  42  White  
20  Runty, to  poplar  
Burns  43  Ireland  
21  -Maria  46  Entangling  
22  Is an also­ 47  Asner and  
ran  Sullivan  
23  Antiquity,  48  Sir Walter  
old style  51  Lady's  
24  Gaiters  title  

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

211/80 


Winning beer raffle numbers 
003054 003145 003317 
·················•················•··················································· 
Today'sspecial -Pastelaacreme 
Order your Ravioli, Manicotti or Lasagna party tray. Others also. 
Free delivery on campus with any $10 order 
Pick up your Valentine treats now. 520 E. LaSalle 
So. Bend 
fWd &lwped rake& aooiWI.e Ph. 282-1010 
64 South Oakland American 31 Fairies range 32 Charm 
65 Busy 36 "I drew my insects snicker-" 
3a Tibetan DOWN monk Is overly 39 Japanese talkative sashes 
2 Biblical 41 Slowly, 
kingdom in music 3 -Verde 42 Augmented 4 Notice 44 High regard 5 Russian 45 Regrettable 
publication purchases 6 Govern 48 Cooking 7 Not well device 8 Rorem 49 Film 9 Numerical 50 Storybook 
prefix bad guy 10 Not quite 51 Larger 11 Bronx amount 
cheers 52 Undiluted 12 Skeletal 53 Proficient 
piece 54 Breads 13 Terminates 56 Athletic 18 Cotton org. 
quantities 57 Prohibit 19 Cathedral 58 Cover 1 feature 59 Acquire 23 Sword feloniously 
playing very well the last few weeks. 
Notre Dame has gone three straight games with a player scoring a hat trick. Dave Poulin did it in the last home game against Colorado College while ) eff Logan notched a pair of hats last week at Mtchigan Tech. Both players were named WCHA Player of the Week for their efforts. 
Both games of this series will be telecast on a statewide network back to Wisconsin. If you don't have a ticket yet and want to see the series, you'll probably regret it is not being televised locally. It promises ro be a good one. 


Smith . .. looking for 200. 

·-------------------------,

IpY I
PINOCCHIO'S I Pizza Parlor 
Macri's Italian Bakery 


I Georgetown Shopping Centerl 
I 


I WINTER SPECIALS I 
,I '-------------------------~ 

$2 OFF $1 OFF I 
I any large-pizza any small pizza I 
~------------------------~I
1  Good Jan. thru Feb. 1980 only  
INew Sunday hours I 1-10pmIIHAPPY HOUR I 4-6pm  Wide Screen TV E~~onsh~d. n • mocc 10 s ill i-1 ~  II Izjl 



L~~~!~~~~~~--------~=~~ 

,.\·· ''1.'1"" 

The Observer -Sports Friday, February 1, 1980-page~i5 
Last night's results 
Spartans, 7 4-54 

EAST LANSING, Mich. (AP) Jay Vincent controlled t_he mid­dle and a trio of Michigan State guards {;Ontrolled the backcourt 
as the Spartans stunned Big Ten leader Ohio State last night 74-)4. 
Boilers, 70-56 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) 
-J uAior Keith Edmonson 
scored ·u of his 16 points in the ·second half and senior center Joe Barry Carroll had 17 points overall last night as Purdue topped Iowa 70-56 in Big Ten 
college basketball. 
Cardinals, 64-60 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP)­
Darrell Griffith had 17~--points and three other Cardinals were in double figures as seventh 'ranked Louisville defeated Tu­lane 64-60 in a Metro Confer,­ence college basketball game 
last night. 

Hoosiers, 60-54 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) Indiana's Butch Carter S{;ored 17 points last night, and the 18th ranked Hoosiers, holding Illinois scoreless for seven min­utes late in the second ·half, rallied to a 60-54 Big Ten Conference basketball victory. 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior 
to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept 
classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classifieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mall.






Classifieds 
'1• 
Notices 
Spots still available for Thursday nl~t bowling league. Call 2n-5049 after 4: . 
Beginning and intermediate piano les­sons being offered. Reasonable rates. Call 3429. 

lost & Found 
Lost: 4keys on maroon leather key chain. In· or around Senior Bar on Fri., Jan. 25th. Reward. Call 6240. 
Found: A single key at Alumni Hall's sq"s party. Call 4579 and identify. 
Found: A birthday card found in Memorial Library--envelope had name in pencil with a money gift. Check L& F to identify. 
Found: gold necklace with locket and heart. Call Pat 1650. 
Fo~nd: One glove with orange and blue markings. Found during a recent basketball game. Visit Observer office to identify. 
Lost: L:idies gold watch at Canisius game. Call 8111 or 3881. 
Lost: Tiny Swiss army knife. Call Janice at 287-5543. 
Reward! Return of green, ladies Schwinn with baskets; missing since Dec. 1979 from LaFortune. Write: Morgann, Box 1734, South Bend. 46634 or call 288-9379 or 289-4061 . 
Lost: one pair of glasses at ND-Maryland game. They were in an NBC blazer. Please return glasses to 246 Keenan or call 3308. 
Lost: silver necklace with black coral at ACC. If found, Call Mike 1813. 
Lost: Before Christmas break--a silver. folding music stand. Please call Carol 3848. 
Lost: Gold Cross Pen--Initials H.K.A. If found, please phone 1373. 


tForRent 
4-bedroom house for rent in summer. 
Call 287·6325. 
For Rent: Walking distance .to NO-­opposite New Loudou Lake on No. Ironwood. I have 3 bedroom house with two other young men. Ideal for male student or faculty member. Tel. 277-0556 
1bedroom for rent in 3 bedroom home on lronwoiJd Rd. Call 277-0556. 
Rooms for Rent--$40.00 a month. Near rides. 233-1329. 
Apartments and houses for rent now and Sept. 1980. Call 234-9364. 


Mlanted 
paid position. typing ski•lls needed. Call description. call 5287. 
WSND 7425. -Multiple Dayton GA's needed. Offers. --Lips that say "Ohhh .. " 
Mick 8212. Wanted: expired Indiana li cerise plates Bud, for hObby collection. Joe 8386. Happy 19th. You wanatah? Is it rolls or
Need GA's to Dayton game. Help' me--Mick 8212. bowls?
-
·Babysitter wanted for 1 1/2 yr. old. Love. Puff 
Tuesdays and Thursdays 10·5. Near Help! Need 2GA Marquette tickets. Call campus 232-9541. Karen 6798. Tomorrow is the one and only Joe Cabrofl. 
All interested students: High paying part-time jobs on campus...you set the hours. Write: Collegiate Press, Box 556, 

Belleville, Mich., 48111 now. No  
obligation.  
Roommate wanted to share house. 2 mi.  

from campus. Excellent neighborhood. $125/month. Call John 233-6573. 
Anyone needing riders'to Penn State call Jeff 6801. 
-Anyone havicg an Insurance Book'fo sell, call Jeff 6801. 
Wanted: Ambitious ancl talented persons to fill staff. Call WSND 7425 Donna or Darryl. 
$205.80 possible for 5 hours work per week in your room. Answer in financial security. P.O. Box 82~14-N, Huntington, w.v., 25705. 
Need ride to Miami of Ohio Feb. 8. Call 41-5154. 
Desperately need ride to Baltimore, Maryland anytime in February. Will help with costs. Call Emily after 5·00 pm at 288-1602. 
Volleyball Coach--needed for N D wo­men's club team, Fall 1980 season. Volunteers apply: Judy/Kathy 8093, Debbi 2218. 
Overseas Jobs--Summer/year round. Europe, S. America. Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-$1,200 monthly. Ex­penses paid. Sightseeing. Free info. Write 1-JC Box 52-14, Corona Del Mar, Ca. 92625. 


ForSal•e 
For sale: 2.5 cubic ft. refrigerator. Like new. Call 3611. 
For Sale: Size 7 112 men's Timberland boots--insulated to 20 below. All leather uppers--great condition. No reasonable offer refused. Call Manny 1601. 
Marantz 1060 integrated amp. 30 w/ch., walnut case. Call 2n-2749. 
Join the crowd! Pope John Paul II for President bumper stickers. $1 cash/3 for $2. Satisfaction guaranteed. GOLDEN DOME* Box 41, Bergenfield, N.J., 07621. 
For Sale: one couch in good condition. $35. Call 3106. 


Tickets 
Need 3 GA tickets to Manhattan. Call 41-5278. 
Help Please! Desperately need 4 or 5 GA's for N.C. State game. Call Ed 1687. 

Cabrera's 20th birthday. why don'tyou
I need 2GA's for any NO home basketbalt 
call 1408 or stop by 164 Cavanaugh and 
game. Will pay top dollar. Call Jeff 8764. 
wish him a wild one. 
In dire need of Marquette-NO b-ball tix.Ga or student. Call John in evenings at 288-5891. 
1 desperately need many DePaul tix. Please call Steve 8696, hurry! 
Need 2 GA tix for N.C. State. $$$ Call Paul 233-9186. 
Need GA's, 1 Davidson, 5 N.C. State. Tom 7666 or 289-6543. 
Need 1-4 DePaul tix. Will pay whatever it takes to get them. Greg 1728. 
Desperately need 2-3 N.C. State BB tix. GA, please call Dan or Bob 3324. 

Got to have many GA DePaul tixs $$Barry 2106. 
Needed: 4-6 GA NC State B-Ball tickets. Will pay top dollar. Call Andy 8851. 
Need 2 GA B-ball tix for NO vs. Marquette. Call 3429. 
Needed: 1-6 student or G A tix to Marquette. Call John 1143. 
Need student tix for N.C. State and DePaul. Call Bolo 1610. 

Wanted: 2 ~A, 2 Stu BBall tix to San ~ Fran. Call J 8192. 
Need DePaul Tickets $ $ $ $ Call277-2344 or 7857 
Need tickets to the Marquette game on the 24th of Feb. Mike 8501. 

Need several student or GA tickets for. =ooPaOI. Call232-7314. 
Need 2 or 4 GA tix for North Carolina State. Call 232-7314. 
Need 2-4 GA's for NC State game. Gall Don 1143. 
Please. In dire need of 3 DePaul tix. Call Joe 1407. 
Desperately need N.C. State and DePaul tickets. Preferably GA. Top$$. Call Pat 1791. 
-
Seriously need 3 GA tix to No. Carolina St. or Marquette. Call Sean 1n1 anytime. 
Desperately need 2 GA's for Navy call 8163. 
Need DePaul basketball tickets! I GA and student. Dad and fri.ends coming from Chicago. Will pay $$$. Please call Vicki at 41-4760. 
Need 2GA or student tix for DePaul. Call Kathy at 1314. 
Need 2 DePaul GA tickets. Rich 1187. 
Desperately need 4 GA's for N.C. State. Call Rick 8739. 
Need . Davidson B-Ball tix. Call tim 287·4823. 

Will pay mega $$$ for 2 GA Marquette tickets. Karen 6798. 

Personals 
Marie Yankus, 
Congratulations on being accepted to Case Med. Tech. School. We can finally get rid of our Pita. 
Your roomies 
Wanted: 
One agressive hunk from Miami for this weekend. Preferably 6'4", dark hair, and gorgeous jade-green eyes. If you fit this 

Anne Rice, 
Happy birthdya to a fellow G.A.A.'er. May you see some tO's on Saturday if you do, go for it, big guy! 
SM CHICK 

· Jim Azzarello: Happy birthday to my favorite freshman even with all the abuse you're still okay. Have fun at home. Love, Diane 
Brandy-Happy 22nd birthday tomorrow. Only one more semester. Love, Mary 
Felix, 
Thanx for everything--the moral support the party and all tile time you have to give. You're great. 
Me 

Welcome Home Silver Fox The Badin Four 
22 Skidoo! Happy Birthday, Lucy From the Rabbits on the mug. 
Anyone interested in starting an NO­SMC coalition against registration for the draft, contact Pat Ireland at 32n. 
Hey! If you've got any talent in artistic design and/or advertising call WSN D 7425... and put it to good use. 
The Rock Tower 

Want to ... 
Gain valuable sales experience 
Round out your resume 
Earn a view dollars 
Join the WSND Advertising Sales team. call 7425. 
"FROSH WOMEN UNITE!" 

SMC frosh council invites all SMC/N D fresh-women to a picnic lunch, which includes everything except the ants. It will be held on Sunday, Feb. 3rd, 1980 about 12:00 noon-2:00 pm in the Regina Hall South Lounge. Free Admission!! 
Happy Birthday to Colleen "Crazy"Harrigan. Your Loving Brother. Bo 
Women of LeMans Hall 
Break the chains of facist oppression. Every girl should invite two guys to your rooms this Friday. Break parietals. 
The Peoples' Front "we mean it man" 

Patti-· Happy weekend! I love you. MH 
WE STOP THIS OBSERVER NOW FOR A SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT! {Birth­day. that is) 
Oh-Mo!! D Oh yes, 
A neat'o nineteen to a fine teen, Maureen O'Toole. Don't let M.U. "track" you down today, cause you may have many more smiles to greet and miles to complete IJefore you go to sleep tonight! 
YOU know WHO 

P.S. "M & M's". available now in 427 Walsh. "They melt in your hands not in your mouth!" In plain or peanut, try one today. 
WANT TO LEARN HOW TO WRITE A RESUME? This and other essentials taught to Seniors in Putting It All. Together--a two-part workshop on Feb. 5 and Feb. 7at 4 pm in President's Board Room. Sign up in the Career Develop­ment Center. SMC. 
Joe-boy, Happy legality! No more dark ,glasses. 
May acheese spot never darken your life again! {We know how fond-ue are of us.) . Love. The Babycakes of B. P. 
The time has come to...attend GILA's educational workshop--ISSUES & VA~a~CTION '80. Tonight, Fri.,
Feb. 1, 7-and Sat. Feb. 2, 9-12 in Library Loun e. 
_Dear Rob~lk. 

Happy 21st Birthday--can't wait to 
celebrate! 
Love, 
LISA 

Dating service, {616) 684-5985, P.O. Box 204, Niles, Mich., 49120. 
I
"You're a REAL cute girl Annie Bower! Love, Dart and Margarittaville 
Yooootum, Happy Birthday! 

Hey Buck! Good Lincoln Impersonation! See you at the Happy Hours!! The PLO 
Fitz. · Let's linally gmw up together! Have an insanely happy birthday! Lucy 
Thou~t for the day-Kulp--for more info call1 3. 
Murph: Sotry about your sweater! I've hired a seamstress. Send it over. McCorm 
P.S. Should I quit smoking? 

Dan Happy 2oth Birthday. You supply the 
20th and I'll supply the happy. Love ya'll Maria 
P.S. Remember Northern Hospitality 

Dear Patty­It's been 3 great ones. Happy anniversary. Love, "The Big Fella" 
I Tappa Kegga...Sukka Eggal! 

Thanks I Tappa Kegga, 4N Howard is great!! See you Friday! Laura, Allison, Sue. Mary 
Miss B. How's your mother? Signed, Miss Aand R 
"Is that you Annie B.?" 
A.B. Beware--C.C. Man is coming! RSBL 

Two people need ride to Marquette for weekend of Feb. 8th. Call SMC 5347 or 5342. 
Happy Birthday Carol Wolf We all hope to like see the Big "B" up against The wall Friday night! 

We Love You! Nanc. Lustie, K.T., Loser, Claudia, and Gibby 
16 score and 7 Pueblo is your answer. What are mine? Gulf of Tonkin, who {3), where, when 
{2), and what significance? Need more clues to your identity! 
Deborah Jackson 1 

Notre Dame's newest {and best) fashion modei. .. Good luck in the show! I'm really happy for you. D.J. 
Your Ex-roomie 
...,. 
a 
116 NfWS 


IIIII) 
Female roommate wanted: Spacious 
apartment at 832 Notre Dame Ave. 
$77.50 per month. Stay free in February. 
Call 232-8308. 
Needed: GA's for Navy, Marquette, No. Ca~lina. and DePaul. Save the neediest. Kat y 1343 
Interested in going to D.C. in February? 
Need ride or riders... Call 3887 or 3611. 

Wanted: one refrigerator to rent for the. semester. Call 7850. 
Mike: We want the fridge, but you left the wrong number. Call Back! 

One secretary for afternoons 3-5 pm. A Need GA tx to any home bbali game. Paul 3121. 
I need 2 GA B-Ball tic:kets to any home game. Will pay your price. Anna 41-5322. 
Need student and GA llx for DePaul bball game. Paul 3121. 
Desperately need 2 GA's for DePaul game. Call1871. 
Desperately need 1 GA for Davidson. Call 6747. 
I need many GA tix to IOePaul. Men from Chgo will pay very blig buck $$$. Call 8437. 11:00 pm-1:00 am. 
I need 2GA DePaul tickets for Dad before I graduate. Mick 821:1. 
~ 

........ '­
•­


Friday, February 1, 1980 -page 16 
i 
Irish return to ACC; Tripucka ret11ains out 
by Mark Perry "Even though Davidson lost Sports Editor Gerdy," Phelps says,"coach Eddie Biedenbach has found a 
Trying to recover from a tough much more balanced scoring loss to LaSalle, the Notre Dame attack. I think they. have basketball team returns to the improved in all departments ACC to play ftve games in the since we played them last next ten days, beginning with year." (The Irish won 95-63 tomorrow's contest against the and hold a 6-0 series edge.) Davidson Wildcats. Tipoff is 
The Wildcats get most of their scheduled for 8 p.m. 
scoring punch in the front 
The Irish will again be without court, with all three starters in the services of forward Kelly double figures. Sophomore Tripucka. The 6-7 junior is still Rich DiBenedetto is among the sidelined with a mild back top 30 scorers in the nation with sprain, and team doctors have a 20.2 scoring average. The 6-7 suggested thatTripucka rest his forward also ranks in the top 15 ailment a little longer. m field goal percentage with a . Davidson comes into the con­63 percent shooting average . 
test with an 8-11 record follow­) unior Todd Haynes is second 
ing Wednesday night's 58-48 on the team in scoring with a win over Appalachian State. The 14.6 average, while center Wildcats lost all-time leading ) amie Hall leads the Wildcats scorer john Gerdy to gradua­in rebounding with a 7.9 aver­tion, but Irish coach Digger age. Hall rounds out the trio of 
Phelps feels that they might be double figure scorers with a a better team now. 10.2 average. 
Senior Ernie Reigel (4.2 ppg) and freshman john Carroll 
(7. 7 ppg) man the guard posi­tions.
Smith shoots for 200 as icers face Badgers 
Biedenbach also uses several reserves, with freshman forward Cliff Tribus leading the bench 
by Bnim Beglane red-cowboy-hatted Badger fans opener. Notre Dame is the doubt have our hands full. But I with a 4.8 average. Sports Wn'ter should be on hand as well. hottest team in the Western am pleased with the way we Lastly, although Notre Dame Collegiate Hockey Association, have been playing. We have
The upcoming hockey series at 
coach Lefty Smith offers no­having won four in a row while our full lineup back now, and
th<.: Athletic and Convocation UCLA thumps OSU
thing more than a smile about leaping from sixth to third nut having to switch things
Center will not be just your 
it, the series could mean a great place. The Irish will put their around helps out a lot.''
typical pair of games. LOS ANGELES (AP)-Mike 
First, because of Saturday deal for him. Smith, in his 12th 10-8 league record (14-11 over­"We skated well last week at Sanders' 15 first-half points led 
year as Irish coach, will be all) to the test against the sixth Michigan Tech (the Irish swept
night's home basketball game, the UCLA Bruins to a 93-67
going for his 200th victory at place Badgers (10-10 WCHA, there). Keeping up our fore­
I • the series will take place Satur­college basketball victory over 
day and Sunday afiernoon be­Notre Dame Saturday. As 13-12-1 overall), and it won't be che_ck .~ill be a key to this the second-ranked Beavers of
I 
college hockey coaches go, that an easy one to pass. senes.
ginning at 1: .~0 each day. Oregon State at Pauley Pavilion 
~ 
Second, Notre Dame's oppo­is quite a milestone. "Traditionally, this is always Bob johnson's Badgers are last night. t nent wall be Wisconsin, and "The only game that's impor­our most exciting home se­led in scoring by defenseman The Bruins broke a 10-all tie 
ries," said Smith. "They'll Theran Welsh, who has 45
Irish-Badger series at the ACC tam is the one you're playing and led by as many as 26 are never ordinary. Saturday's in," smiled Lefty. "If it have a large following and I points in 26 games. Forwards points, handing the Beavers game has been sold out for a happens to be my 200th win, expect our fans are pretty Ron Vincent and Scott Lecy their first Pacific-10 conference week and a half and Sunday's well fine." excited too." follow with 36 and 35, respec­loss in 10 games. UCLA im­
conrest no doubt will boast a Smith brings a 199-192-20 "Wisconsin always fields a tively. proved its conference mark to capacity crowd. Almost 700 record into tomorrow's series competitive club and we will no [continued on page 14] 6-4. 

Is Title IX cause for ND cutback? 
Ah, the irony of it all. 

In the wake of Notre Dame's plea of poverty regarding athletic dollars comes a release from the Council for Financial Aid to Education stating that, for the fiscal year ended june 30, 1978, Notre Dame ranked sixth nationally in the total amount of alumni contributions with a whopping $4.5 million donated. And as the Campaign for Notre Dame soars past the $1 )2 million mark, the other outside grants continue to trickle in-$350,000 from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation to establish a faculty development program. 
We students often lose sight of the generosity of 
the financiers of this university. For all of the 
educational opportunities they have made available 
to us, we are truly grateful. 
Somehow, though, I think that if these generous people knew of the serious plight of the non-revenue producing sports, many would run to the rescue. ) ust consider the revenue that would be generated by a $20 million endowment, a little nest egg spouting forth $2 million a year in interest to finanl:e all of these sports that, unlike football and basketball, can not finance themselves. 
Oh well, just a suggestion. 

To refresh your memories, the University has opted to discontinue scholarships in the non-revenue producing sports-hockey, soccer, track, etc.-until further notice. Many people layed the blame on Title 
IX. Before we begin to boggle the mind with dollar signs and figures, understand that these figures are "official," but somewhat bloated. For instance, the 

Michael Ortman 

soccer roster of 60 includes 30 freshmen who saw little· action this season. So allowing a reasonable margin for error, here we go. 
Title IX, that legendary piece of legislation tacked on to the Education Amendments of 1972, prohibit­ing sex discrimination in education, went into effect on)uly 21, 1975. Bear in mind that Title IX covered not only athletics, but all aspects of education. In a memorandum dated june 3, 1975, the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, Caspar W. Wein­berger, admitted that "the most talked about issue was athletics,'' but he underscored the fact that the· regulations did not demand ''dollar-for-dollar matching expenditures for each sex.'' 
He knew that many universities would have to make significant changes and offered a period of three years for the affected schools to comply. 
The three years passed quickly, and many schools did their part in complying with the guidelines. Many others, including Notre Dame, did not. "We're not sure what we have to do to comply," came the cry from dozens of colleges and universities. 
In a statement dated December 4, 1979, the university community, the Department decided last year to provide higher education institutions with more gUidance on how to comply with the athletic proviswns of Title IX.'' 
Attached to her statement was a 41-page policy interpretation. After thumbing through, we arrived at the meat and potatoes, at least as far as most athletes are concerned. 
The Regulation 

l. Athletic Financial Assistance (Scholarships) Sec. 86.3 7 (c) 
A recipient that provides athletic scholarships or grants-in-aid must provide reasonable opportunities for those awards in proportion to the number of students ofeach sex particzpating in intercollegiate athletics. 
In other words, scholarship dollars must be divided equally, in proportion to the number of male and female athletes. The example given was this: 
Total scholarship fund =$100,000 in a school with 70 male and 30 female athletes. Male athletes are entitled to $70,000. Female athletes are entitled to $30,000. 
There were two exemptions listed, one pertaining only to state schools, the other stating that unequal results can be explained by"reasonable professional decisions about the number of awards tn any year which are most appropriate for program develop­ment.'' 
football roster lists 147 men (95 on scholarship), but sympathetic HEW Secretary Patricia Harris said that So now the numbers on Notre Dame. Remember,half of them most people have never heard o£, and "because of the nature and complexity of intercol­these aren't gospel, but darn close. some have never donned the green and gold. The legiate athletics, and questions received from the [continued on page 141 




