
by Mary Fran Callahan -Smior Staff Reporta 
Local lawyers and National Collegiate Athletic Association attorneys reached an agreement yesterday on the televising of Notre Dame home football games, by conferring for ap­proximately one and a halfhours out of court. The plaintiffs who brought the charges against the NCAA agreed to comply with the Association's regulations re­stricting the broadcasting of ames for attendance reasons, but ifthe localla wyers can get each of the 40 cable companies involved to consent to granting per­mission to WNDU to televise the games, then the NCAA will allow Notre Dame games to air on South Bend television screens. 
The plaintiffs who initiated the charges against the NC..AA are now faced with the challenge of gaining the consent of the cable 
~companies by Saturday-if the upcoming Michigan game is to be televised. The attorneys, however, were optimistic that the cable companies will grant Notre Dame permission to have its games aired, but they said there is only a "50/50" chance that all the required consent can be obtained by Saturday. If compliance with the cable com­panies cannot be obtained in time for the Michigan game, then the attorneys hope they can reach agreements with the com­panies in order to begin tele­vising the remainder of the regular season. 
George Roberts, chief counsel for the plaintiffs, said the agree­ment with the NCAA will result in a "strenuous effort" on Notre Dame's behalf to get Saturday's game televised. 
The plaintiffs said they found the cable companies that they have contacted this past week to be quite cooperative, and con­sequently the lawyers are hope­ful all the companies will agree to allow the airing of the football games. 
Asked why no hearing was held, Roberts replied, "Because we tried to reach an agreement." 
, Local residents and law stu­dents filled the court room, which was equipped with a limited amount of seating. Spectators stood against the walls anticipating the beginning of -the hearing. The lawyers representing both parties en­tered the courtroom, conferred briefly and then left to meet in a conference room. Local resi­dents speculated as to what was occurring within the confines of the conference room. 
Barbara Ruth, a South Bend resident, explained that her husband was in Naval ROTC while at Notre Dame, and that she used to attend the games years ago. Because she rarely gets an opportunity to obtain tickets, she consequently enjoys follow­ing the televised broadcasts. 
"I don't think it's fair to take the games off the air; Channel16 is our station and they should televise them. I really wait for the games and look forward to them," she said. 
Several spectators waiting for the hearing to begin wore blue and gold ties, "Go Irish" buttons, and tee shirts with Notre Dame insignias. The spectators even followed the media out of the courtroom and waited in a hall­way by the conference room door Tor some word on the matter. 
Since the fate of the televised games now rests in the plaintiffs' ability to negogiate with Lhe cable companies, further word from the lawyers could come sometime later today. 
Crosson attributes drinking to enviroment 
by Kelli Flint indicated that they were mod­!em," Crosson said. "Many stu­
Senior Staff Reporter erate to heavy beer drinkers. The dents arrive with well established 
drinking habits. The environ­
Alcohol abuse is one of the ment here is magnifying the major issues raised by students problem rather than alleviating and faculty at Notre Dame. Last it."
fOCUSyear, the Department of Crosson added that the 
:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Psychological Services conduct­University has poor social out­ed a survey dealing with student lets. "The campus never planned alcohol use. The results of the Notre Dame percentages were for this many students," Crosson survey indicated that there was a also higher in the moderate to said. "There is an inadequate 
problem with student alcohol heavy drinking category for wine amount of social space, which abuse. and spirits. makes the environment poor for According to the survey, 25.9 Patricia Crosson, director of casual male-female relation­
percent of the Notre Dame the Department of ships." students surveyed were moder­Psychological Services feels that Some Notre Dame under­ate to heavy beer drinkers. Only there is a problem with alcohol graduate upperclassmen agree 1 5 percent of the national abuse at Notre Dame. "There are sample of students surveyed two basic causes of the prob-[continued on page 4] 


News Brie~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Walkouts still plague Poland. Although the communist country survived one of the most crippling strikes of the decade, lingering unrest still exists in a number of cities. Warsaw television reported 16 struck businesses and sources said walkouts had shut down the Katowice streetcar system and a bal-l/bearing plant in Kielce. It was unclear whether the 16 strikes were the beginning of a new wave of unrest or i:he residual effects of the old, which began easing with settlement of strikes in Gdansk, Szczecin and Silesia last month. Those settlements granted workers the right to strike and set up independent unions. I )etails on the strikes were sketchy but the workers were believed to be pressing demands for higher pay, 1mproved working conditions and in some cases the removal of unpopular local supervisors. 
An explosion was reported early yesterday at a Titan II missile 1 silo in Arkansas hours after Air Force officials discovered an apparent fuel leak and spotted"smoke" billowing from the silo, a police dispatcher said. About 100 people living within one mile of the silo in this sparsely populated area of central Arkansas had been evacuated last night after the "smoke," thought to be vapor from leaking fuel, was discovered. A dispatcher at the Van Buren County Sheriffs office, who declined to give her name, confirmed there had been an explosion, but said no further details were immediately 
available. · · 
The drug, Resperine widely used to control high blood pressure, causes cancer in animals and may pose a similar risk to humans, according to the National Cancer Institute. The tests, in which animals were fed the drug for 103 weeks, do not prove that reserpine causes cancer in humans. But they indicate it is "a potential risk to man," the institute said. More than a million Americans take reserpine in various forms to treat mild hypertension and millions more have used it in the past. Figures indicate reserpine sales represent about one-third ofthe market in drugs used to treat high blood pressure. 

South Atrican public prosecuter, Adam Klein, who walked out ofcourt saying he was sick ofenforcing the country's policy on racial segregation, said police seized ·documents and personal items from his home, according to the Rand Daily Mail. 
In a published interview Klein was quoted as saying he was working on a report on irregularities in the disposition ofcases against blacks when police entered his home. 
When he walked out ofcourt three weeks ago, Klein, 24, told a magistra~e he could no longer stand by and watch the legal system bemg used to serve apartheid, the system of racial separation giving whites all po/ litical power. 
• 
The shotgun death of a woman was caused by a college football game when the woman tried stop her boyfriend from watching the game Qn television. Homicide detectives said that ~u~ing the Labor Day telecast of the Arkahsas/Texas game, hdor Anderson, 56, said she was tired of football and stood between the TV set and her boyfriend, Clarence Broadus, 56. He warn7.d he~ seve_ral times,_ "Get out ofthe way, or I'll get my ~hotgun, pol1ce sa1d. The w1dowed mother of 10 children died from a blast of a sawed-off 12-gauge shotgun. 

A ton_ of marijuana was uprooted in Seiad Valley, Calif. by ,t_uthontlc'; who stumbled upon a hidden marijuana plantation nnged bv rolls of barbed wire, warning bells and a guard tower m the rugged Klamath Mountains. The pot farm was discovered by a California Highway Patrol officer who spotted three blo~Jdied !nen staggering on a rural road and went searching for the1r assailants .. Authorities said the three men, who said they 
· .\·ere pros~ecting for gold, may have been assaulted because 'hey were taken for marijuana thieves. Officials said the multi­·nillion-dollar plantation is the most extensive ever discovered in this rural area, long known for its illegal pot cultivation. 
Sunny and pleasant with highs in the mid to upper 70s. Clearat night. Low in the mkl to upper 50s. Partly sunny and warmer Saturday. High in the upper 70s to low 80s. 
Inside Friday 
'-.. 

It was the ~oice of one crying out in the wilderness. 
Mark Kelley, off-campus commissioner, sat in my office smoking cigarettes, slumping into the weary posture of frustration and acceptance. ''I'll tell ya Rusty, it's bull---t," he was saying. 
The leader ofhis chosen turfhad entered upon a foreign turf, less hostile but, in its own subtle way, far more insidious. Mr. Kelley had confronted the land of bureaucracy. 
Out there in the promised land of off-campus Kelley's constituents were being beaten, stabbed and robbed. But there was no burning bush around to divinely intercede. So he took the next best route: the "norMal channels." As ofTuesday, the normal channels weren't working too well. 
"Here's my problem man," Kelley continued. "I need to get hold ofeveryone offcampus. So I go to the registrar to get a list ofnames and labels. They aren't ready. Then I try to reserve a room for a meeting: no luck, everything is either booked or 'not usable for that type of gathering'." 
"Then," Kelley continued, "I needed money for publicity and to get started with this house alarm thing. But Student Government won't make · money allotments for another couple of weeks. Paul (Riehle, Student Body president) got me a little cash to work with, but I'm already out of that." 
The problem offinding solutions for offcampus crime is no easy task. Much talk is made in collegiate circles of "the real world," as though that entity is something which exists apart from the presumable fantasy of university life. That view, like much ofwhat we receive in college, is an illusion, and unfortunately the reality of seeing friends beaten, stabbed and robbed reinforces this fact. And real world solutions are required for real world problems. 
Now the theoretical question might be "who is responsible for solving these problems?" We 
allude to that answer in today's editorial. But the 
pertinent real world question is "who is willi11g to solve these problems, and what are the possible solutions?" That is the question Kelley is in­terested in. 
Rut Kelley has never had a course in how to curtail a sociological problem. From his partners 
in  solving  this  situation-the  city  and  the  
University-he  has  received  what  he  calls  
"hassles."  

"The city reps, when you tell them what kind of problem we have, hit vou with the fact that our people create a mess a"t the bars, and that's a big problem too," Kelley recited. "And you gotta admit, they do have a point. But they have to help too. We need to cooperate, and that's whatI'm not 
getting." 

ne.rig11 Edttor .... Margaret Kruse (:op,Y Editor ... Mary Fran Callahan New.r Editor ........ Pam Degnan Rditoritil LtiJ!OIIt ... Mike Onufrak Fetlttm•.r Layo11t .... Molly Woulfe Sport.r Layout . ..... Beth Huffman Tvpirt.r............ Linda Herwitt 
Marilyn Broderick Night Ted111idt111 . .. Kathy Crossett NTJ l)ay !Mitor ............ Ryan Ad ne.r~f(n. ........ Flo O'Connell Supplement Layout . .. Beth & Kelly 
Photogrt~jJhy ........ Chris Spitzer Phil Johnson John Macor 
The 0bserver (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer ls8ublished by the students of Notre arne and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be p11rchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 
46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved. 

Friday, September 
19, 1980 -page 2 


A tale ofblood and bureaucracy 
Mark 
Rust 
Managing Editor 

"That's why I need to have a meeting with off 
campus students...and they have to show up. We 
need to have an attitude of cooperation, both in 

not being obnoxious and in keeping ourselves 
safer by not being stupid." And that's where the University comes in. In 
order for Kelley to have a simple meeting a variety 
of bureaucratic hurdles must be cleared. By 

yesterday at least one-the Registrar's list of 
names-had been. But the attitude Kelley says he 
encountered in attending to the rest of the 
mundane dificulties-red tape, ignorance and 
indifference-remain. 
Now Kelley is not Moses, and oi-[ campus is not the promised land. The fact that 67% ofthe senior class lives there may indicate many view it as such, and that in itself is dangerous. Weekend parties at which the hosts get blinded and are oblivious to strangers entering their house are parties better left unhosted. Beer is not milk ;md honey, and no burning bush is going to lead intruders and intimidaters away from trusting, bourgeois stu­dents. 
And, finally, it doesn't take a prophet to cry out "Beware" concerning a situation so obvious and close to home. Then what does it take? That is not .easy to answer. What doesn't help is an impersonal bureaucracy, impervious to the critical necessity of cooperation. The relationship of red tape to blood is far stronger than the simple shared characteristic of color. Let's hope it's not one of cause and effect. 


LEARN KARATE!! 

Traditional. Japanese Style Classes will be held on: Mon. & Wed. 6-8' Sunday 3-4:30
SIGN UP: Friday 1()th Angela Center 2-5 




The Observer 
Single-sex rooms 

Dannounces policy on Sr. Formal 
by john Higgins 

Activities Father Mario Pedi the same decision at that time. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's said, "and the University does "But it wasn't until the spring officials have mandated that not condone cohabitation on or that I heard the complaints,''seniors attending the Senior off campus." he said. ClassFormal will for the first Some Senior class officials did "I can see both sides of this," time be required to reserve not view the situation in quite Saint Mary's Senior Class Pres­hotel rooms in single-sex the same light. "It's another ident Terry Hall said. "I feel groups during their weekend example of the University tell­stay m Chicago. A move within ing us we're not mature or (continued on page B] the Notre Dame Senior Advi­responsible enough to take sory Council to hold the formal control of our own lives," 
.~ · NDvs.GA.TEC

independent ofUniversity influ­Senior Class President Mickey 
' 

ence and financing was stymied Turzai said. "I don't feel that by a Council vote. the University has the right to The formal dinner-dance will tell twenty-one year olds theybe held on the weekend of cannot make thett own decision March 27 at the Chicago­whether or not to have sex, that Marriot Hotel in downtown the decision must be made for 
Chicago. Seniors attending the them." 
fonral generally spend the "If they haven't instilled pro­wee~end at the hotel where it os per moral values by now, then is being held. In the past, they just haven't lived up to stucients have made hotel ar­thetr own expectations, •• Turzai 
rangements on their own. added. 

Friday,_September 19, 1980-page 3 
SUNDAY 

AT SACRED HEART CHURCH 
5:15pm Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, c.s.c. 9:00am Sunday Rev. Austin Fleming 
10:30 am Sunday Rev. William Dohar, c.s.c. 
12:15 pm Sunday Rev. William Toohey, c.s.c. 7:15pm Vespers Rev. William Dohar, c.s.c. 

campus
miniStry 


United Way Section Collectors 
IMPORTANTMEETING 
September21 7:00pm Library Auditorium 

"...an activity...must be run in accordance with University philosophy and policy." 
However, this year University officials insisted that hotel rooms be arranged by sex and registration by handled through the Student Activities Office. "We received too many com­plaints in the past from stu­dents who felt that they were forced into an uncomfortable situation" because of peer pressure to spend the weekend m a hotel room with someone of the opposite sex. Vice-Presi­dent of Student Affairs, Father 
John Van Wolvlear said, "We had·ro take a stand.'' 
"If the University is going to sponsor an activity, it must be run in accordance with Univer­sity philosophy and policy.'' Assistant Director of Student 
"They're wrong," Huot con­tinued. "We're old enough to deal with the situation oursel­
.. 
ves. 
"No one is going to be checking to see that everyone is in their rooms,'' Pedi said, "but we have a responsibility to our corporate conscience as a Catholic institution. If the students can deal with it in their own consciences, that is their own decision, but if the formal is to be sponsored by the University, this is how it must be done." 
Pedi added that if he had been fully aware of th e situation when he assumen his position in the Student Activities Office last fall, he would have made 



RANDALL'S NEW CENTURY INN 
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL out of state 800 348 -2412 ~ In Indiana 219 J72 -7900 
15% DISCOUNT ON OUR ROOM RATES 
~ /
FOR THE ENTIRE NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY (eicluding special events) RTH OF THEioLL ROAD ExiT ON US CHINESE-AMERICAN CUISINE / 
IN CONCERTI In-the-round With a Revolving Stage 
FRI. OCT. 1 0 8:30 PM N D A. C. 
TICKETS:$9.00/$8.00 all seats reserved-Excellent seats ore still availab AC.C. box office and River City Records, _· 5~970 U.S 31 North,
277 4242 

3 m11es north of us. 
-----·~ ~-­
-----·­
' 

The Observer Friday, September 19, 1980 -page 4 




Observer 
tailgater 
Saturday 
11 :ooam 
green truck on Green field across from Sr. Bar 
(~~~~~~~~~---' 
[continued from page 1] 
that there is a problem with student alcohol abuse. 
According to an off-campus senior, there is too much drink­ing among many students during the week. "There is a ·lack of social outlc::ts other than bars," she said. "Students go out look­ing for entertainment, and there is nowhere to go but the bars." 
Notre I)ame's alcohol prob­lem is shared by the majority of college campuses in the country, noted a junior who transferred to Notre I)ame from another col­lc::ge. "On the whole::, the drink­ing situation is pretty compar­

. able," he said. "The problem is caused by a need for release from the pressures of the school week, peer pressure, and a need for acceptance." The a leo hoi situation is viewed differently by some sophomores 
and freshmen at Notre Dame. 
"I don't know if there is an 'abuse::' problem with alcohol," a Notre Dame sophomore com­mented. "The students seem to be able to control their alcohol intake. I haven't seen any stu­dents who 'need' alcohol." 
The:: sophomore added that there is a different situation on other campuses. "I've been to parties on other campuses," he said. "There:: is more drug em­phasis on other campuses. I haven't seen any open drug use at Notre !)arne." 
One:: freshman observed that student drinking at Notre Dame is usually social and not heavy. "I think that most students drink every weekend," he said. "Speak­ing from a freshman standpoint, since:: most of the parties I've attended arc:: for freshmen, the drinking is mainly social. Stu­dents usually have 3-4 beers 





$ BRIDGET'S ~ 
PRESENTS PRE-MICHIGAN WARM-UPS RETURN OF THE .PUNK ROCK HAPPY HOUR 
FRIDAY 3~00-7:00I PRE-GAME! 


OPEN lO:OOam SAT.-2for 1 BLOODY MARYS &SCREWDRIVER~! 

GO IRISH BEAT BIG BLUE 

LUNCH Mon.-Sat. 11:00-4:30 t N
DINNER Mon.-Thurs. 5:00 -10:00 ·Fri. · Sat. 4:30 -12 :00. -Sun. 12:00 -10 :00 
Douglas
ND 

PHONE 277-6368 



ACROSS FROM UN.IVERSITY PARK MAll ON GRAPE ROAD 
when they go to parties to meet people, or get together with friends." 
According to Kent Laudeman, director of Co•mselling and Developmental Services at Indiana University South Bend, the alcohol abuse situation in­dicated by-the Notre Dame survey is also present at IUSB. "From a counselling perspective, we have similar problems with alcohol abuse," Laudeman said. 

"Alcohol problems in adult life are usually caused by boredom and monotony in career or inter­personal relationships." 
"We are an 'instant' society," Laudeman said. "We have in-

.Drinking 
stant coffee, instant cereal,etc. Alcohol brings 'instant' relie{ of social pressure and disappoint­ments. 
"As a depressant, alcohol shortens the amouat vftime that a student can study effectively. Alcohol acts nn the nervous system. Students may think that they are studying well, but they are actually only putting in time." Socialization, not alcohol abuse, is the 111ain problem wi~"h­in the 17-21 age group, according to Keenan Rector Fr. Richard Conyers. 
"The problem lies in male­female relationships," Conyers said. "The males are perhaps more insecure than the females . The fact that females have been here for less than 10 years adds to the problem. 
"When you run away from any problem, the problem doesn't go away, you just don't face it. As for the social life on campus, alcohol doesn't help the situation, it only delays the response to the situa­tion," he added. 
"Many think that because the alcohol abuse problem is ac­knowledged, it is solved. The Administration may be doing this by using a 'wringing hand' approach to the alcohol prob­lem, which was brought to their attention last year by the survey· results presented to them by the l)epartment of Psychological Services. 
"The alcohol problem in some instances is totally out ofcontrol, Conyers continued. Alcohol use in public is not addressed very carefully by anyone. The use of alcohol on Green Field is a good example of this." 
Crosson and Conyers agree that improving the socialization conditions at Notre Dame would help alleviate the alcohol abuse problem. "Setting, rather than negative expectations, higher, more positive alternatives to alcohol use for socialization would help ·remedy the situa­tion," Conyers said."Students here see many negative expecta­tions and not enough positive alternatives to alcohol use." 

ST. MARY'S COLLEGE PERFORMING ARTS SERIES 

Olaughlin Aud. Tuesday Sept. 23 8:00pm General Admission $4 Students $2 
-------------------------~-------~----~---~----­
The Obsetver Friday,September 19, 1980 -page 5 
PI.ACEIEttT BUAlA1I 
Mllln Bulldlns 
X* li'TI:I'flllll AD OI'D to IDIOU AIID CUWATI ITUDIITI Ul T1t1 DICIMIU., NAY AND AUGUI1 a.&IIU., •••••••Ain' _, llr'fDD TO MAYI J.nDVJIWI tiiiT HAY! A <XlHrLITID nortU (IIGJITUTIOI) rQa Ql FlU AT 'I'D PLACD8liT IIJU.W, 
to JIQI-UJ PDIOD II nCM 1100 A.N. TO :hOO P.H., MJifDAY nlaot.IGH THUUDAY, IN aootl Zll lDaJIIITUJ'UII IUILDIIIC liliCUOfUIC !IIPTIMJD U fOI Ur'l'llVIIVI SOliOOLIIJ Nl 11U VIU • 
ora~ 
:at. 
YOU ..st llal POl fOUl IIITUVIM PIUOIIALL1. 
DAft 
AL M 
IC 
IC 
lM rNIA

---+-+-++-+-+=+------------­
Could OcMQ llr-t• Dlvhlon 811ftU, .... •to. 
I 
I 
..tio!!l SU!l COrpontlon I 1.-,., II, ...t, Chi, ..10. I la 1\c.:t. 
V. H. ll'!!lt r...-.....1
~II 
I l! Lt~. Art! _. tu.. Ad. I ln a... 
1
A .....~~·
~ 
~I 
O<t I
.....­
OU Z
,...­
~-r.t. _l_O 
'"" 


I I I  I I I  
Jl  l  X I  X I  I l  
X  X  ){  II  l  
II  l  I X  I X  

~-­

Against Reagan 


Carter denies accusation 
=:rl.:~· carpontton 
m Aute!tlt llec:nlc l.lboratorl•• .., In U. 
T.u• ln!U..-...tt -l!!icoculucur Croup 
• tn a, ta, Milt, C:C.. Sci. 
!.t"t: ii7':t:;o: ~!!!'Jt,.:1:!;"~~S: •. 
luu lytrenu -l•ul~t GnNP 
• In U, ... ,.10, laar IIIIIch•. 
Kon!J!!!ll• Inc. LUI! Dlvt ltl in II. I In Ml, MilO, Cl. c-It)' Con!trw:Uon D1v: I i.a Nl, D, Phy!IC!. Prou.. ,._.,_.., Dh (IIIW) : IMD tn A. 1M In Collp 
I I• .,., llath. Loc•tlo•u Pt.o.nl•• .U. leeld~tl•l Dtvt.lon -IIIQDeapolt•r C.nulled 


tt.\af!Cturen ,..tl!!!!!l kllk of Detroit All IIA. 
a.U•c.• llec:trlc Co lin Ia, Kl, l:ntr ld. 
Prlc• Wa&erhcNH • Co I t• Acct, MIA vhh Acct bkJrd or conc•ntr1uon 
I. l, Doaaell•Y • Son1 Co 
i Jn Icon, ell IIA, MIA, 1M in ~, KilO, IJ, Ina-
CTl Ayt-tJc llec:trtc1 I In U, 1M In lletiL 
a.meutn • Ienir., Ltd I tn Acct. -
ClneiiUid Pn•-tic Co 11 In "1, •ro. · 
~•.!!,!I_G_r_o,u,P 
I In Kf., 11!10, U:, 01.1'.:. 
'!!!!!!!!!._~•trl•• ltiL 
1M In lkoth, Co.p Sci, Phy1, Sci. 
Inc 
Acct. delued. 
1 In Od., cr, ttl, H, F.erth Scl., tttto. 
J_!!t_'!_-c?!P 
All IIA, !M ln Al., EC, 5C fur S•ln/Sylte• En1r and 
C.ner•IIHkt Sylt•--OECDIItR GJIADS ONLY. MBA for 111M' 
poaltll•n11-IIF.CDU1t:M A.'W f'V.V c:RADS. BM ln EE for Dnlan 
lk•v •• 11•1 In 'U' ((>r Ft~tllltla• !nar, BH In Cbl. for Proc•n 
!nM,r. aH In ME, tiiiO for "fa En&r, IIH In F.!, Colllf'• Set df >tilth, l•hvalc.a, Ola• vlth CQ:~p Sci couran for 01-lll~ttn 6o O.v/l'roMr•-lnr.-OECD(ft!R o\ND ItA'I' CIU.DS. 
J_o.!!•-•--•-IJr_~.&h_l_tn s.t•."-' _(!orr
11'1 in 11!, U:, Cl, Chi, Hot. 
""'rlthon Oil Cu 
• Tn ·u.. c""'r· s.t. 
~le111l Unl,vt~nlty...~. l'h• <;r11~u1h School.~. Odord_. 011 I fn alt' 1\t'a((pktn'tl,'' Mv-;ii'Cedd.lf••• -;;IT;r•d"tn Ill llfOII' l'llti'Pl l•w, l'n~tlrwt•rln$1, 10d t~~~dlrln~-l"hllnMI'd dol• rr......C'pl. 19. 1..\W!:tltr•rl.:­
S..rthWVIIII'fll l'uJVt'r.. ll • 1.1~ '" ho01-•l 
Yuukrbilt Unlventl)l t...., IH:huul 
let. 



-----NEED MONEY-._. 

SMC needs Day Editors For TheObserver Tues. Thurs. Sun. 12:30-4:30 
~--~ 

.___~ 
Call Mary (SMC) 5754or 283-1715 

I Cdrby'sl · Saturday ,,. .'~:-~~·--.-I Sept.20 
.. ·'i'I ' ' -·-, ----. -~ -. I, 

Open lOa.m.
_.!j__,__--e"'___~ ~ ------------­

Double Bloody Marys 


$1.00! 
TONIGHT 

POCO 
AND 

John Hall of Orleans Plenty of good seats available 

SEPT. 19th 
At The 

NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
Show Storts At 8:30p.m. 
PRESENTED BY 
NOTRE DAME 
STUDENT UNION 
In Conjunction With 
MIDWEST EVENTS 
TICKETS 
$6.50 & $7.50 RESERVED 
WASHINGTON (AP)­President Carter, who called Ronald Reagan to task for using the words "states rights," denied yesterday he was accusing his Republican opponent of "run­ning a campaign of racism or hatred." 
"I do not think that my op­ponent is racist in any degree," Carter said. 
In a news conference dominat­ed by the presidential campaign and partitularly Carter's conduct as a candidate the president said he felt he had been running a race that "is very moderate in its tone." 
The question has emerged as a major element in the general election campaign, which has been characterized in recent days by charges and countercharges between the Carter and Reagan camps on the twin subjects of civil rights and appeals for black votes on Nov. 4. 
Reagan, in a two-sentence res­ponse distributed by his press secretary, said the news conf­erence was "Jimmy Carter's des­perate attempt to fill the empty chair at Sunday night's debate." 
"It is time for Mr. Carter to stop hiding in the Rose Garden and participate in open debate where I can have the opportunity to refute his false ad partisan version of his record." 
Carter's refusal to take part in the debate Sunday night bet­ween Reagan and independent presidential candidate John B. Anderson in Baltimore received only brief attention at the news conference, and Carter said he had accepted three invitations to face Reagan alone, without Anderson. 
From the first question until the last, Ronald Reagan, and Carter's recent criticism of him, was the central theme. 

-~-··---­

The Observer Friday,.September 19, 1980 -page 6 
Bike thefts annoy students,securi 
byEariRix 
Bike theft is a recurrent pro­blem at many colle~e campuses and Notre Dame ts no excep­tion. Reponed bike thefts that were as high as twelve a day during the ftrst week of school have dropped off to two or three a day according to Rex Rakow, Assistant Director of Security. 
With many bikes costing $200 or more, bike theft can be a class C felony--more than a minor annoyance to students and campus security. 
Students like Kathy Doering, whose bike was stolen in front of Lyons this fall, will attest to the fact that just putting a heavy lock and chain on your bike does not guarantee its safety. 
''They cut my lock and there were about five others also lying on the ground. I figured that ifmy b~e were in the rack 
in front ofthe dorm, it would be safe enough. I was wrong," Doerins commented. 
The typical bike theif is be­tween 13 and 16 years old. He may or may not carry a bolt cutter that can cut through lock chains and cables. 

''I would guess that 50 percent of the stolen bikes were locked up," Rakow said. 
He added that security took extra measures to reduce the anticipated high incident of bike theft at the year's onset. Precautions included having normal. patrols watch bike racks. 
"We put t>eople near the Huddle 10 plam clothes because student go inside for a quick Coke and leave their bikes unlocked," Rakow explained. ''We fmd a number of unlocked bikes every night and we bring them in and try to locate the owners. We have a number of bikes that are unclaimed and that is one reason I ask students to report bike thefts," he stressed. 
''I also encourage students to register their bikes in the Lost and Found office in the Admin­istration Building. 


STUDENT SPECIAL 
MON-TUES-WED. onlv 

FREE REDKEN CONDITIONER WITH HAIRCUT & AIR-DRY STYLE 
@REDI<EN® 
HOURS mon -8:30-5:00 tues-wed-8:30~5:30 thurs-8:30-8:30 

NDSV PRESENTS 
''An Evening of Danee'' 
Romeeoming Danee ~980 
Band:The Oatne Date:Sat. Sept.ZO Tltne:9:00p111 -1:oopm Plaee:Centu17 Center Tle•etc$b.oojeouple In acluanae 
fri-8:30-6:30 sat· 8:00-4:00 

phone:l34-6767 
Rakow funher said that stu­dents need to re-register this year, but the new registration will last as long as a student stays, here. In addition to lockirig their bikes, registering and reporting bike thefts, Rakow encouraged students to ~epo~ groups .of suspicious Juveniles who mtght be looking for bikes. 
"We need co-operation. We can't do it alone by any means,'' he concluded. 
Chicago trip 
P~anned 

The Latin American area stu­dent' program is organizing a trip to Chicago for the play Evita, the London smash hit musical based on the life of bva Per~m. wife of the Argentine president. Tickets 
1and bus have been reserved for Wednesday, Oct. 8. The bus will depart at 3:30, leaving time for dinner in Chicago. Tickets for the bus and theater are $24. Payment must be made to Professor Ken Jameson in the economics department by Monday. Telephone 2838925. 
fphoto by Chn's Spitzer]
N few seats are still available. 

SMCfreshmen elect new Council 
by J?tane Mazyrek 

A twelve member Freshman Council was elected by 60 percent ofthe class yesterday at St. Mary's. To avoid a delayed announcement of the winners, student government officers de­cided to accept two more than US!lal ten-member board as the result of a three-way tie. 
The 1980-81 Freshman Coun­cil includes Caroline Adornetto, Beth Aisthrophe, Carol Bingtin­ger M~ Duvic, Bridget Grif­fin, Elame Hocter, Maureen Hughes, Keevie McCarthy, Kathleen Reinette Saleeby. their sophomore advisor, an elected representative from last year's freshman board, is Leslie Griffith. 
The Freshman Council is the organizing body that plans the social, academic and spiritual activities for the class. 
On Sunday, the freshmen will receive an orientation meeting by student government leaders. 

The council will choose a chairman to head the group and represent them on the Board of Governance. At their second meeting each member of the council will submit applications for the commossioner positions. 
The advisor and the chairman of the board will review the applications and assign posi­tions based on candidates' past experiences and talents. 
TRAININGSESSIONS for new members of the . Undergraduate Schools Committee 
Dates: September 22-24 Time: 7:00pm Place: LaFortune TV Lounge 

Pinocchio's Pizza Pailor 
Luncheon Specials Weekdays 
BeerSpecials Every Nite­8:00to 9:00$.25Mug $1.25 Pitcher 
Hours 
~oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo• 

~This Coupon 11:00·12:00Mon-Thurs iGoodfor One 11:00-1 :30Fri-Sat iPi%%11 4:00-11:00Sun 
1$2.00offany 1Large Pizza on our Wide Screen 1$1.00of(any 
~~
I
SmallPi%%11 
(j~ 

.;.............................................. 'S:'Q; 
~ " 
We Deliver 
4~ 


Any COLLEGE OF SCIENCE STUDENT INTERESTED IN REPRESENTING 
THE College of Science on the Academic Council should submit Nome and btlef Statement of Purpose befote Sept.26th to: 
Stud•nt council c/o Th• Offlc• of D•an of Scl•nc• 
Rm 229 Hl•.,wland Science 
CHEVY CHASE 
Caddy­
shack 
Shows 
1:45·3:35·5:25·7:30·9:45 1 :30·4: 15,7:00·9:30 

The Latest Fashion •••In Murder. 
Qi!!2~~!],TO J\lll 
The Observer 
Somozaslayer 
Assassin suspect shot 
ASUNCION, Paraguay (AP) distributed by police following -A Paraguayan radio station the bazooka and machinegun reported police shot and killed attack Wednesday that killed one of the suspected assassins of Somoza, his chauffeur and a ousted Nicaraguan dictator finacial adviser. Anastasio Somoza in a suburb of Asuncion last night. 




Killer

The broadcast identified the man as Hugo Alfredo lrurzun, an alleged member ofthe Argentine 
shrubs

People's Revolutionary Army, a leftish guerrilla group, and said he was killed in a shootout with 


detected

police. 
IRVINe, Calif. (AP)-Scraggly desert shrubs that make theirThe radio said the shootout own pesticides may offer lesstook place in the Lambare harmful alternatives to poisonssubufb of Asuncion. The 

a now made from expensivt; ,broadcast said person petroleum, says a University ofaccompanyinl-( Irurzun escaped California biologist. 

during the exchange. 
There as no immediate Reaction is, 'Forget it, this comment on the report by thing's not fit to eat."' Paraguayan authorities. Photographs of lrurzun and a 
He said the research is in very woman identified as Silvia early 'stages. "We're still dis-. 
Mercedes Hodgers had been covering 

ALL ARJS a; LETTERs STUDENTS 
INTERESTED IN APPI..YING FOR 
COLLEGE COUNCIL 
please contact 
OONSCHMID8764 
or 
CINDY BULIK 1674 
OeadNne tor Application: 
Monday, Sept. 22 


~-~terce~ 
Restaurant The Best in 


Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. Closed Sundays & Holidays 

THE GOLF CtiNIC PRO SHOP DRIVING RANGE FUU SERVICE GOLF SHOP FEATURING 



.~AME BRANDSPORTSWEAR 
AT DISCOlHT PRICESI 

;;;::········,.:.·.··············································································:·:·:·:·:·:···:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·
t······HoM·E·o·F.·iH·e······~·~AliiGAf6R;;··········~~1: 
1111 IZOD -LACOSTA ~ 
.1111 

~§:::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:~:~:::~:::::::~:::::::::~:~:~:~::::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::~:::~:::~:7:;:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:: 
TOP QUALITY GOLF EQUIPMENT 
~~~=~ACATES GOLF C.INIC INC. 303E.DAYROAD
256 2800
-MISHAWAKAIN. 

Friday,September 19, 1980 -page i" 



· Kick offtheptewith 

. Saturday brunch atf.ppecanoe 
Kick the next game day off on the right foot at our special pre-game Saturday brunch from 10 AM to 2 PM. We'll.put you in the winning spirit with fluffy omelettes prepared to your order, hand -carved steamship rounds of beef and ham, 

fresh salads and fresh fruits. Plus all the champagne you can drink. Just $8.95 for adults and $4.95 for children buys all you can eat. Now there's a deal that's hard to beat. 
620 West Washington, South Bend. Reservations available. Phone: 234-9077 
(')Continental Restaurant Syst6!'ms. l'»Wl 



-------------------~------­
The Observer Friday ,September 19, 1980 -page 8 
by Louis Breaux After much experimentation, we decided to try and sell it,'' tast-paced than conventional A new game invented by a rules were finally decided upon. Gunnar explained. table tennis. Notre Dame student could well A server hits the ball to the Since he was not satisfied with Gunnar has invested about 
$1.00 Off Any Large Pizza 
*THURSDAYS 
$1.00 Off Pitchers of Beer 
NORTH 
U.S. 31 North Roseland Across From Big "C" Lumber 

CarryOut Dial 272·6017 
OPEN EVERY DAY 
MON.-THURS. FRI. & SAT. SUN. 
ee Us For Y 

become a major recreational spon in a few years. The sport, which is called "Sectorball", 1 was invented by senior Gunnar Larsson, a native of Sweden. 
Sectorball can best be describ· ed as an improved form of table tennis. Gunnar syas, "A friend and I back in Sweden played table tennis so much that we got bored with it." 
What they did was utilize a round table and place boards across it at right angles to each other. This divideo the table into four sectors and provided · them with a net. They beganto 
.. devise rules for serving and playing the game. That was about tern years ago. 
The newest concept in hairstyling for the aware Man&Women 
INDIVI.DUAL STYLING UNITS for complete privacy FAST SERVICE for carefree cuts and blow styles 
Designer. _ styled hcircuts· 
$10.00,
airdryed completeshampoo 

Every Week Specials 
*TUESDAYS 
11:00-12:00 11:00-1:00 4:30-11:00 

izza Partie 
opposite sector from where the option of returning the ball to any of the three sectors other than the one the ball was just 'hit into. 
HE GAME CONTINUES WITH THE F1JNDAMENTAL OBJECTIVE CONSISTING OF HittiNG TO ANY SECTOR EXCEPT THE ONE IT JUST BOUNCED IN. Points are given when one player fails to return the ball correctly. 
Gunnar and his friend then took their invention around their neighborhood Stockholm, where it s.ained popularity. 
"We budt some. tables for our neighbors and friens to see how they would like it. They did, so standard ping-pon~ paddles, Gunnar designed h1s own pad­dle. The final product resem­bles a glove fashioned of foam· rubber. Two thin plywood slats provide stiffness in both front and back of the hand. · ''We were tired of our fingers getting in the way of the ball," Gunnar commented. 
Once he decided on the game's rules and design, Gunnar applied for patents in both Seeden and the U.S. The American patent was filed in November, 1977, and the pad­dle design patent in August, 1979. The table design is also protected under patent law. 
Gunnar tried to market the product in Swedem, but the company interested failed to recieve government funding necessary for the venture. 
Since April, the student has been attempting to market the game in the U.S. through Kessler Sales Company. 
"We thought we could get a lot better publicity through Kessler Company than by doing it ourselves," Gunnar said.. Thus far, Gunnar percieves some interest from Brunswick, AMF, a~d Wison sporting good compames. 
The game has advantages over table tennis. The new paddle design allows for greater con­trol and flexibility. The table played on measures only four and one-half feet in diameter-­allowing the game to be played in a much smaller area than table tennis. For the athletic person, the game is much more 
'Ticket Lottery . 
Monday, Sept. 22 
IJI 1
LaForYJ~1room 
I $10Per Ticket i !!\\ Limit: 2 Tixperperson 
l!l: 

1 (Juniors Only-140ti.xtotal) 1 
:::!:;:;:;::::~:::::~:~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::t::::::::::::::::~:~::::::::;:;:;:::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::: 

All other lectures in · Stapleton 
$5,000 in patenting and promot­ing his invention. So far he has not recieved anv income from marketing th game, but he is optomistic. Money. however, does not motivate Gunnar, for he simply says, ''I just want to see people enjoying themselves pI a yin g it. ' ' 
... Formal 

[continued from page 3] 
that the administnitions of both 
colleges have a valid point,'' 
Hill ADDED THAT SHE 
ALSO BEUEVED THAT MOST 
OF THE SENIORS AT Saint 
Mary's agree with the arrange­
ment. 
''I'm happy with the arrange­

ment,'' formal committee mem­
ber Ann 'Hesburgh said. 
"Given the choice of having 
single-sex rooms or not having 
a formal, I feel it's fair." 
Turzai disagreed. "We could 

run it on our own, independent 
of the University," he said. 
"It's a matter of principle. It's 

time we stand up for ourselves 
and show them we won't toler­
ate being treated like chil­
dren.'' 
The second part ofthis article will deal further with back­ground ofthe decision and vote by the Senior Advisory Council not to concuct the formal inde­pendently. 
~ 
t 
I
' 
Senior Domer 
•

mvents paddle game 
zn-J.IJ2 271·t.·f7i 
rrr.;6~i 
"Ha.i~ Ki!t~;de:tt' 
I 
~o.~ Af2J'( 
CLOS!'O ~cr~o:: Y 
nu:s.. ww. s::m-5:30 
nw~s .. m1. a:J0-8:30 S14T. I.I·.~Q-.;·30 
• 
----~-­
\ 

-------~-­
Friday,September 19, 1980 -page 9
The Observer 

* 
OVER $1.000.000 OVER20.000 INVENTORY! SQUARE FEET!
* 
Car Stereo 
VIDEO 

SANYO MINI AM·I"M MPX 



CASSETTE. li1•l11rba!ihfHl 
I"T-4781''' 
$68
lcm•tqu X-body 
IllHI 
CRI\IG MINI AMTM MPX •CI\SSI:TTI:. T -608 '" <JH•clt for stab 
C'Ot!IIJ(H'fH. IIIH 
111 duHh 
CLARION AMii"MiMPXI 
CASSETTE. E)ltras on !he PE-560A. Include auto­
reverse, bul 
anc:e, Iader, 
mou~ 


VIDEO CII.SSETTE TII.PE
JI:NSI:N RM•I"M•MPX• CASSETTE. l),•fuxl• home 

Specially designed lor VHS format 
•loroo .cnond lor 
$146 

machines, the T-120 tapes 2. 4-even up 
to 6 hours with a comparable machine. 

Super quality means no•iuzzy edges. just 
yotll •·ot 1R-400 
PIONI:I:R 1\Mii"MiMPXI 

a clear, sharp picture that lets you enjoy
CI\SSI:TTI:. In-dash KP· 8500 has FM Supertunor, 

what you've taped! 
Dolby NA". 
manyo_lh~rlop 
$168
AX ItO!> 

VIDEO CASSETTE TAPE IN BOTH BETA ANDVHSFORMATSAREHEREFROM JVC. TDK, MAKELL, SONY, MANY MORE! 
TAPE DECKS 


MAGNAVOX 7-DAY 
B·I·C 2-SPCCD CAS· PROGRAMMABLE
SCTTC DCCK. Hrgh speed 
VCR. All the features 

you need, like 6 hour Broadband electronics. 
--y----~~~~1~ "twl'vaers;~~~ru~ :: 
recording lime. 7-day 

. 
advance setting. touch 
tunmgand more ore all 
included on the model 
-~ more. 
SJJ3 
8227. 

SANSUI CASSCTTC DCCK. Hrgh quahly Sansur eny1neering wtth Dolby NR" •. many other extras makE> th1s a super buy! D-90 
MAGNAVOX 6-HOUR VCR. Model 82221ealures 
remole pause. 
24·hour pm­
SJ38 
gramming. more.

I"ISHCR MCTAL CAS· SCTTC DCCK. CR-4028 also 1ndudes 2·speed opera. !ton. automatic search 


' HITACHI ?·DAY PRO· GRAMMABLC VCR. Re­""SC'Eb corduploS 
lunchon. Dolby NR". more 
-• 1-.z:! I programslrom $899

SJ87 

· ~ pre.selllng! 
I .., ....,.... ~ VT-5800
KENWOOD CASSCTTC DCCK. 3-head desrgn KX· 
1030 mcludes double Dolby 

Much more too, including a
NH · · variable bias. much morC'. 


complete selection of acces­sories and blank video cas­
sette tapes!
PIONCCR MCTAL CAS·

..~ 
SCTTC DCCK. CT-1"850 111ch,dt"s Fluroscan VU mt"
.' 
... 
TEACOPEN 
REELDECK. 
s449
An unbPilf>voblr low 
BASF CAR BOX OFFER 
pncf" lor o dt•rk wrlh so 
Free carrying box with pur­
much1X·3 
chase of 5 
Pro Ill 
C-90's. 
5/$15
Blank Tape 
MAXELL AUDIO CAS· 
SETTES. Famous UD·C90's 
have super

SONY AUDIO CAS· 
3/$799 

10/$24
SETTES. Full90 mim:tes re-s~und for all 
mUSIC.
cordmg lime w11h super sound. FX-C90 

TDK AUDIO CASSETTES TDK AUDIO CASSETTES The high-bias reference AD·C90's are designed lo get 

Ihe most from 3/$799 VHS VIDCO CASSCTTC ~~~~~9~-' 10/$29car stereos. 
TAPC. T-120 lopes up to 6 hour• wrlh 

SONY VIDEO CASSETTE BASF AUDIO CASSETTES h1gh quolny TAPE. L·750 video cassette Economical Studio Series plC'hllf' Limit 6 lorusewith
31$44 

C-90's save Beta format you more. machines. 
21$36 

* 
THREE DAYS ONLY! 
Fliday: 12-9 So~urday 10-8 
Electronics 

KENWOOD 28·WATT RE· ~!!~·~:·.D;0~::;1r$e14 wlatts 
many top extra~ 
KS-4000R 
12 

PIONEER 40·WATT RC· CEIVER. P10neer qualily wtth 20 watts per side • dual power 
meters. much 
more 
SK-590 


SANSUI IOO·WilTT RE· CEIVER. G·4700 features quartz·loc:ked di\lital tun­mg. SOwattspersode', LED pow<>rmelers. $ 
more. 
248 

90-WATT AM I'M STERCO RECEIVER. Superprrce $ 
lor 45 watts 
per side, 
tuntng me 
137 
ters, more. 

KENWOOD 80·WATT DC
r -. -u RECEIVER. 40 watts per 
side' DC 
power. much 
SJ88
more on Ihe 
KR-4010. 

TECHNICS BO·WATT RE­
r~;e~!~L:O $)aug.P7•r 
mg meters. 

more. Sll-303 
PROJECT/one 300-WATT RCCtiVER. A HUGE 150 
~~~~~E::~e $399 
ters, much more. 
Portables 
PANASONIC AM/I'M 
STCREOICASSETTE. 
One-touch recordmg, con denser mics, more on 
RK-5020 
$99 

SKANDA AM/FM STEREO/CASSETTE. LED meters. AC ·De power, more on the 
RC·550 
$129 

PIONEER AMII"M STEREO CASSETTE. SK·31 features edit sw1tch. Songl"in· der, much 
more 


JVC HIGH-POWER AM1 I'M/CASSETTE. RC· 550JW has 10' 3 way speaker sys­
lem,high 
$259
power out~ 
put. m01e. 

JYC AM I'M STI:R£0 
CASSCTTC. All lire d<•lux<• 
fc-OIUfli'S Will! 
plenlyol 
$349 
kCM:~o 


*POWER STORY

CREDITI 
All receiver• a11dTake home your 

ONLY AT: 
ampa In thia ad 

new hi-ll or Yideo 
meet perform­

PLAYBACK
equipment today ance alated min.
with your VISA. 

RMS at 8 ohma.
Town and Country 

Maater Charge I 
from 20Hz to

Malter Card or 
20kHz. with no

Amerlca11 Ex­Shopping Center !Jll CfZdJzmuc, C71 
morelhan 0.~% or 

preaa card. 
len total bar· monic dlatortlon. 
in Town and Country Showcase 
" ;, ~0 • 'a o.l,l·• 
• 


QUARTS (per case) 
Blatz $7.79 Busch $9.49 Budweiser $9.19 Colt45 $8.79 Falstaff $7.79 
Hamms $7.79 
Miller $10.09 
Miller Ute $10.49 
Old English $9.49 
Old Milwaukee $8.64 
Olympia 
$9.29 Pabst $8.59 Schlitz 
$8.98 
Schlitz Malt 
$10.09 
Schoenling Uttle Kings $8.79 Big .lJg $8.29 
win a week away...guess the 
date &time of our 1 millionth 
customer and win a trip for two 
to Las Vegas. 
Current count is 959,039 
ase Discount Poli 
liquor Full Case 10% Split Case 5% 
wine Mixed Case 15% Split Case 10% 
(some exceptions) 
stores open 9-9 

1/2 brl 1I 4 brl 
Budweiser 37.00 22.50 44.00 24.50
Michelob Strohs 37.00 22.00 Pabst 35.50 21.50 Miller 38.00 Miller Ute 38.00 Olympia 35.00 Lowenbrau 44.00 Heinekens 71.50 
24.98­

*Old Milwaukee 
:. . .. 
Pabst loose $5.98 Natural Lite loose $6.49 Miller 4/6 packs $6.79 Blatz 2112 packs $5.78 Hamms 4/6 packs $6.19 Strohs Lite 2112 packs $6.49 Strohs 2112 packs $6.59 Old Style 2112 packs $6.69 Red White & Blue loose $5.19 
John o~Hanlon-Class o£1965 Sponsor ND Volleyball Team 

an on's
' 

I ­
WAREHOUSE LIQUORS 
~ -~-­
---·-------~-~-----­


by Mark Mihanovic touchdown against Ohio State and four passes 
Executive Sports Editor for 141 yards and two scores in the Gator Bowl. 
The Michigan Daily But it was on October 27 that Carter imbedded 
his image in theminds of 141,832 Wolverine 
A rain soaked football field invariably hamp-partisans forever. On the game's last play, he ers those players who rely on speed for grabbed a John Wangler pass in the middle of effectiveness, who like to cut sharply this way the field, broke one tackle, and avoided two and that before spotting their opening and more Indiana defenders, while off-balance, to sprinting for the goal line. A rain soaked football cross the goalline and beat the Hoosiers 27-21. filed tends to negate quickness. And if Michigan Carter had no jremonitions of immediate Stadium's Tartan turf was anything last Satur-success on the gri iron when he first came to day, it was rain soaked. Ann Arbor as a freshman, not with Michigan's 
But luckily for the Wolverines, the slippery grind-it-out image prominent in his brain. field didn't bother a little guy wearing number "I could catch the ball pretty well, but I didn't. one on the back of his have that in mind com-jersey. Twice, with the ing up my freshman score tied versus a sur-year,'' Carter said Mon­prisingly fiest North-day. "I didn't think I western, quarterback could do as much as I did Rich Hewlett sent fellow since I passed up going sophomore Anthony to places like Florida Carter into the endzone. State, which is a passing Twice Carter outran the school.'' defense. And twice he But with Wangler's broke the tie, as he was accurate throwing arm one of the few bright seeing a lot of action last spots for the Blue in the season, Carter was able 17-10 victory over the to conclude his rookie Wildcats. campaign with 17 catch­
Carter's two touch-es and a 27.2 yard down catches gave him average. four receptions on the Wangler, in competi­day for a total of 84 tion with Hewlett for the yards. They also improv-starting quarterback ed his career total of TD position as the Waiver-grabs to nine, good for me's prepare for Satur­sixth on Michigan's all-day's Notre Dame slug-time career list. And he .. fest, says, "A.C. is l>ro­is only one game into his bably the best rece1ver sophomore season. in the country." 
The 5-11, 161-pounder When asked how good from Riviera Beach, ,caner is, right now, Fla., lit Wolverine foot-\Coach Bo Schembechler, ball fans on fire from the ''You 'II have to excuse me now-/ have ·never one to throw a-very start of his fresh-to go over .~o the Stadiu_m and turn on round cheap compli­man season with a 78-the water. -Dan Devme. ments about his own 

yard punt return in the 1979 opening game with players, puts on nis most serious face and simply 
the same Wildcats. (He ranked fourth nationally states, "He's very good." 
in punt returns over the campaign). Carter was a high school all-American in both 
Ever since that opener the sight of Carter with football and basketball in Florida and rumors 
pigskin in his hands has brought Wolverine spread last year that his 4.4 40-yard speed would 
the edge of their seats in explosive be utilized by Johnny Orr's casers, as well. 
But he decided to concentrate totally on football 
And as often as not, they have been satisfied. because he is a perfectionist, as witnessed by 
wide-receiver performed like an all-Ameri-Schembechler's post-game comments, on Cart-
in the team's final two games last season, 
two passes for 125 yards and a [continued on page 13] 
Old friends : Dan , Bo same game strategies? 
by Mark Hannuksela Sports Writer 

Sometime around the middle of April, when most every college football team in the country was in the process of conducting their annual sprin~ drills, and most everyone else was 'looking forward to the commg of summer, there was a meeting. Rather insignificant actually, at least at the time. Two old friends got together over a few beers, and sat around talking football. Then, one of them got an idea. 
"You know something Dan, I've got this terrible quarterback problem. I've got two pretty good ones, and a freshman that's going to be something. One almost beat Ohio State last year, the other one almost beat you. I don't know what I'm going to do." ''Huh, you think you've got problems,'' siad his friend. ''I've got three good ones that want to start, and two more will be here l.1 
August. I don't know what I'm going to do either." 
"Well we're having a problem with the press too. They keep bothering me, wanting to know who my starter's going to be." "We've got the same problem. Those poor ... never leave us alone do they?" "Boy that's for sure. T've got half a mind to just let those ... wait and find out when the guy walks out on the field for our opener.'' "Wow, that's pretty bold. Little too unorthadox for me though. Still, it'd serve them right.'' 
"You can say that again." 
"It'd serve them right." 
To make a long story short, the first old coach managed to convince the second old coach a few beers later that this mdeed was a good idea. Both decided that this daring course of action was going tt> be theirs come opening day. 
The secrecy caused a lot of problems, the fans were irate. "We want to know who our quarterback is going to be," they shouted. " 'you can't do tHs to us. " Yes, they were livid. 
There were aL;> problems with the press. Nobody would tell them what they wanted to know, so the rumors started flyin~. 
"They're going wjth experience; it'll be one of the seniors.' and "They re looking Ito the future; one of the freshman will get the nod,' were most common here, while on the other side of the border, they were saying "It'll be the senior, the sophomore choked in the big game," and "It'll be the sophomore, the senior choked in the big game. " 
Meanwhile, in the camps, the coaches struggled to make their decisions. All candidates performed well. All moved their respective offenses. There were no real standouts, and no complete flops. The competition was very intense. 
Day after day, each team practiced, and each quarterback got his shot. While the problem was an enviable one to those less fortunate coaches around the country, a problem it remained for our two heros nonetheless. 
Well, as all coaches must eventually do, each reached a decision. The Secretary of Offense was appointed. Attention now turned to the first opponent of 1980. Strategy was set. Plans were made. Everybody was anxious for Saturday. 
When THE day finally rolled around, everybody was truly excited. Excited not about the possibility of an opemng day win, but because they would finally fmd out who would fill that most prestigious of all positions, the position where teams sometimes rise and fall, the position where stars are born, and superstars are molded. They were going to fmd out which of their favorites would be the starting quarterback. 
Unfortunately for the old coach who started all the secrecy, he didn't get to tell first. Thanks to the big old giants who won the rights to publicity, the other coach got to play his game first. It was on a beautiful, sun-splashed day that tht: field announcer made the long awaited announcement ''at Quarterback, number Two, Mike Courey." 
The reaction of the fans was mixed at first, but it didn't last long. By game's end, everybody was convinced the old coach had made the right decision. All was well.· 
When it came his turn the following week, the old coach who started it all wasn't as lucky as his friend. First of all, it was raining. It rained long and hard on his huge stadium. Still, most of his fans showed up. The waited throught the rain, and when, five minutes before game time, the field announcer said "at Quarterback, Number Two, Rich Hewlett,'' they had the same mixed reaction that the fans south of the border had had one week earlier. 
Unfortunately for the old coach, they had those same mixed emotions at game's end. Sure, their team won, but it wasn't the route it should have been. Some even went so far as to call for an early exit for Number Two. 
Well as the story goes, the two old coaches now face a date in which their teams w1ll play each other. That date is tomorrow, and game time is set for 1:30. But for those early arrivers at the stadium, watch for the .Pre-game meeting between two old friends. 
It should take place nghtaroundmidfield. 
What might those two have to say? 
[continued on page 13.] 

---------~-~­
-------~ ~ 
The Irish Extra Friday, September 19, 1980 -page 12 
Dreams Come True 
by Brian Beglane Sports Wrtier 
The tale of how Don Kidd made his way to Notre Dame and then made his way on to the Irish football team might qualify as one of America's great success stories. 
Hard work-that has been the key to the gridiron career of the senior defensive tackle out of Cincinnati. 
"Don does not have the outstanding speed or bulk (6-2, 245 pounds( of the great defensive linemen," says Irish defensive coordinator Joe Yonto. "But what he may lack there he has more than made up for with hard work. His off-season practice and desire have earned him his present starting position." 
Kidd made his mark on the Notre Dame football scene against the same Michigan Wolverines. whom the Irish square off against tomorrow. In last year's season opener in Ann Arbor, Don stepped from the shadows for a sack on his first play of the game and repeated the sequence a few plays later. Both tackles drew tears of joy from his mother, seated behind the Irish bench. 
"How did you know about that?" he smiles. "My parents go to all the home games and any away game in the area. Against Michigan my mother was just really happy when she saw me get the sack and I 
guess she just went crazy after the second. "I tell you, making those plays was the greatest feeling of my life." 
''Just getting the opportunity was a long time in comins for Kidd. He did not see any game action his sophomore year, and finally got his chance last season, appearing in eight contests. 
''Looking back on it all, I guess I see it as just a lot of hard work finally paying off,'' says Don. "While you are working and practicing, Jou dream about what it would be like an now that I am here, it's all worthwhile. It's been worth every second." 
Even the way he thought of coming to Notre Dame as a youngster could fit into the script of the Knute Rockne story. 
"My dad was sort of a subway alumnus," explains Don, who is a marketing major. "He just loved the place. When I was a kid I told him then that one day I would play here. He just sort of laughed and shrugged it off. 
"Then, when the opportunity came up, I grabbed it." 
"I really can't say enough about a player like Don," says Yonto. "His dedication­more than raw talent-has made him the player he is. He's one of the unsung heroes who does all he can to help everywhere.'' 
Maybe more fathers should start listening to their sons. Hard work really can make dreams come true. Just ask Don Kidd. 
Pat Kramer gets his chance 
by Tim Prister Sports Writer 
To someone that stands 6'5" and weights Don Ktddholds down one ofNotre Dame's defensive tackle spots. [photo 255 pounds, one would think that happiness 
to _such a monstrosity would be a home
by John Macor]. 

33rdyearsas coach 
Yonto guides defensemen 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Writer 

A long, long time ago, Joe Yonto decided he wanted to be a football coach. 
"Ever since I was in high school, my ambition was to coach football,'' remembers Yonto, Dan Devine's de­fensive coordinator and line coach. 
"I really can't remember wanting to be anything else." 

Ask him why and he'll tell you all about the challenge of coaching foot­ball--about working with people and building character and how the game offootball is a lot like the game of life. You've heard all that stuff before, right? 
Right. 
But Joe Yonto makes you believe it. Because he believes it. 
"There's no doubt that I find my job a challege," he em~;>hasizes, thumbing through the Michigan football press guide. 

"Look at these guys," he says, pointing to a picture of the Wolverines starting offensive line--duly captioned by Coach Bo Schembechler as ''pro-· bably the strongest and fastest line in Michigan history." 
"If you don't think it's challenging to get ready for a super team like this, then you're mistaken. And that's where other elements of the job come into play.'' 
For instance? 

"Well, like I said before," he smiles, twirling an ever-present cigar between his fmgers, "the main aspect of my job is working with people--preparing ~e players to face an offensive squad like Michigan's. '·' 
Yonto calls himself a coach. But he thinks of himself as a teacher. 
"That's what it's all about, really," he theorizes. "I think coaching is understanding. Understanding not only X's and O's but people's person­alities." 

"For instance, I think it's important to know which of your players needs a compliment or a pat on the back to make him play better and which guys need a more forceful source of motivation--if you know what I mean. With experience, you get a feel for that kind of understanding. And hope­fully you become a better coach because of it." 
And Yonto has plenty of experience. "Sometimes more than I like to think about," he says with a smile that belies his serious tone of voice. This is his 17th season with Notre Dame and the 33rd autumn he will spend on the sidelines of a football field with a 
..,!;!!l~~~an~d~a~~~~~~----.. 

Before that he was a player--for Notre Dame, of course. He was a fullback for the 1945 Fighting Irish and a guard the next year. Both of those teams won national championships and when you couple that with the three (1966, '73, '77) titled teams that he coached for Notre Dame, .well, it's interesting to note that Y onto has a national cham~;>­ionship ring for every finger on his hand--including the thumb. 
Ah, but don't dare ask him to start comparing teams or players. 
"Let me see," he starts seriously. "We played some great games in the Sugar Bowl win over Alabama in '73. Or, for that matter the green jerseys game against Southern Cal in '77 or the Cotton Bowl or ... " 
Admittedly, he makes his point. 
•'Hey, I remember every one of those games and every player I've ever had," he says, this time without one of his patented "I'm only pulling your leg" grins. "Sure I remember Alan Page and Mike McCoy and Ross Browner. But there were guys who never got any publicity that played just as hard and gave Notre Dame just as much as any of them. "I think that's the part of the job I like most," he reflects. "Working with super people like those. ''And teaching ... '' Which is what he's been trying to tell you all along. "This is a simple job, really," he reflects. "You see the information, you understand it and then you try to get it across to your players. When you do that, the team wins and you are successful. If not, you go back to the blackboard and the projector and try to 
figure out what you've done wrong." For Yonto, a Notre Dame assistant for 
[continued on page 14] 
cooked meal. Although defensive tackle Pat Kramer undoubtably wouldn't turn down such a generous offer, he is quick to point out that happiness to him is being at Notre Dame. 
"As far as I'm concerned, there is no other place I'd rather be," remarks the congenial JUnior from Colton, Washington. "After I graduated from high school, I had it narrowed down to Stanford and Notre Dame and I have never doubted my final decision.'' 
Pat graduated from Colton High School which had an unbelievable enrollment of 96 students. "It sounds ridiculous but there were only 96 students in the whole school. Even more surprising is that five players from my senior class received· scholarships to play college football." 
Kramer's final decision was influenced mainly by his two older brothers, Mike and Joe, both of which played football for the University of Idaho. "My brothers helped make up my mind for me. They encouraged me to go to Notre Dame because they knew I'd be treated well and would be given a rare privelge--a chance to play Notre Dame football." 
Pat was immediately given that chance when he madf' the traveling squad his freshman year. ''That was my initial goal--to make the traveling squad my freshman year. I knew becoming a starter would be a difficult task because there were so many talented• individuals vying for starting positions on the defensive line," says Kramer. 
Kramer did manage to start five games last year and was determined to make a substantial contribution this year. "I stayed in good shape this summer by running every day and increased my strength with the heir, of weightlifting coach Frank Pomarico, ' who is affectionately known as "Mr. Intensity.'' 
"I not only wanted to start but I also wanted to make a major contribution towards the ultimate goal--a national championship." 
Kramer speaks of a national title not as something unattainable, as the preseason pollsters predicted, but as somethmg within reach. "Sure we can win the national title. The offense and defense still need a little polishing and because of our youth there is plenty we must learn. Fortunately, we have some excellent coaches and captains to help us through this learning process. " 
Kramer doesn't consider being elected 
captain as a goal but rather an aspiration. 
[continued on page 14] 


l 
l 
Friday ,.September 19, 1980 -page 13
The Irish Extra 
Unsung heroes 
Shiner, Pozderac pair in trenches 
by Gary Grassey In Miie OleniJ. Sports Wn'ter Sports Wnler 
-
Despite all their good work against troubled Purd_ue, it rema~·ns t~ be seen how Precisely two weeks ago the mind of Phil Po:zderac was dominated by the thought good the Irish really are. They are young and thezr are gaps zn abilty. of intit~ting his ~ollege caree~ against an All-Big T~n tackle named Calvin Clark. Douglass. Looney · Preparmg for his first start 1n a Notre Dame uniform, Pozderac seemed quite Sports Illustrated . . , .. . . content with the challenge presented by an athelete of Clark's caliber. 
The quote hangs onthe door to M1ke Shmer s room w1th reference remm1scent of "Needless to say, I was pretty nervous before the game. After all, Calvin Clark is any one of numerous pre-season publications (i.e. Sports Illustrated] tabbing the a great player. At the end of last year, Tim Foley told me that he was probably the Notre Dame football ream as still a bit too green around the gills to make a serious tough~st guy ~e.played a~ainst all s~ason. :· . . run as national honors in 1980. Keepmg the lnJured Baltwore Colts adVlce m mmd, "Poz" sought to play his 
Wait until next year, ri~ht? game by concentrating on his technique an.-l strength. "Its kind of a mind game 
But for Shiner one of s1x first-time Irish starters on offense against Purdue, the you have to play to get ready for that type ofplayer. You have to mentally prepare game with the Boilermakers proved Notre Dame against Purdue, _the game wi~h the yourself to go out and block as hard as you can, as well as you can. If you do get Boilermakers proved Notre Dame can move the ball and deal wuh anybody m the beat, well that's part of the game. You have to forget about it and go on." trenches, this year. Upon hi arrival at Notre Dame two years ago with a 6-9 frame and only 240 pounds 
''Before the Purdue game,'' recalls Shiner, an imposing figure at 6-7, 260-pounds, to spread around it, Pozderac quickly comprehended the nec(:ssity of both weight "I really didn't know if it (the offensive line) would jell as a unit because of the gain and technique improvement. things people were saying about our inexperience and the guys we lost from last As offensive line coach Brian Boulac puts it, "When Phil first came here he year like TimFoley and Rob Martinovich. "But as soon as the game started, we ~layed as a freshman and like a freshman. Last year he realized he had to bear came togethr-r. We had to." _ . . £ own and concentrate on winning Tim Foley's spot."
The numbers certainly speak for themselve~ because the Insh, ~lth <;>ur In ~valuating Pozderac's performance agaif:tst Purdue, coach Boulac conveys the first-timers leading the charge around all-Amenca cent~r John Scully, mcluding feelmg that the hard work and additional body stren$th had indeed paid off. "We sophomre Shiner at left tackle, plowed through Purdue s JUnk defenses for 413 were very pleased with Phil's performance. He 1s hustling on the field and Yards assuming more of a leadership role. The thing is, he will get even better every 
. . k " Sh' "W 11 d'd ' k Of "
"As far as mental m1sta es, says mer, e rea y 1 n t rna e ~ny. game. ~~·.•rse, we made the physical mistakes, but those are to be expected. I thmk those Now tipping the scales at about 260 pounds, Pozderac is just beginning to 31 points have a lost to say, though." . recognize his own potential. His performance against Purdue answered some 
Shiner's own progress from a freshman member of the prep s9.uad t<? a starting questions as to just how well he could handle a big proven player such as Clark. role on the offensive line says a great deal about Sunnyvale, Cahf. nauve as well. Michigan, ~ow~ver, will pose a ~ifferent challenge for f>?th Pozderac and the rest Whereas last fall, Shiner, minus 20-pounds, was just trying to make the travel of the offens1ve line. The Wolvermes feature three, relauvely small down linemen squad August cam(' began with the realization that he had a shot at the first team. who are quick-footed and hardnosed. 
"I h~d a ~ood spnng and I knew who my competition would be in the fall," he "Mike Tr~ovac and the Michigan linemen are cast out of a different mold than says makmg reference to freshman year roommate Randy Ellis who left the that of Calvm Clark. While Clark uses his strenP. to hit you one-on-one and read Blue:Gold game as the number one prospect, ahead of Shiner, at left tackle. ''But I off your bloclc, Trgovac will use his agility and qwckness to come off at the snap and figured this was the best year to really try to make the first team because we had read the play immediately,'' says Pozderac. lost so many guys, althoug if I didn't make first string I wasn't gonna be There is a question as to whether the offensive line gave an actual indication of its disa_ppointed.'' . . . . overall ability against Purdue, yet Pozderac is will tell to say that performance was 
Shmer left school in May we1ghmg 240-pounds and showmg h1s coaches a need for no fluke. added strength. And when he r_eturned in August, the results of a regorous "Overall, I'd have to say that the line is improved over last year simply because summer training program were evtdent. . . , , . we haye more spirit and we work harder at it. Having a person like John (Scully) in 
• • Mike knew what he had to do to make h1mself b1gger and stronger, explau1:s the m~ddle ~eall~ helP,s us as a team because he seems to know exactly what to do in Irish offensive coordinator and line coach Brian Boulac, "And when he came back lt any glVen sltuatton. ' \vas obvious that he was much more phy~ically mature." . With all the talk of the affects that the week layoff would have on a relatively 
When all-America right guar~ Tim Huffman wen.t ~own wah a stress fracture to young and high spirited team, Pozderac expresses his own views, "I don't think the his left ankle, Ellis, who has smce become a flu v1cum, was moved to guard and team has been burr t'hat much by the layoff. Myself, I was kind of banged up after Shiner assumed the left tackle spot ten days before Purdue weekend. the Purdue game and this extra time gave me a chance to heal." 
"We felt Mike had made the progress," a~ds Boulac. "Athletically we kne~ he W~~~:tever the. affects of a week. off, it is dif!icult to believe that the intensity could do it, so it was just a matt~r ~f how q01ckly he came around ~entallr; Shmer exh1b1ted by thts team and by Phd Pozderac will be dulled by much of anything. -­assumed it's when you star~ thmkmg too much that y<_>u make mlstakes. There is a defmite difference in the attitudes displayed by this year's squad, and 
The mistakes were few dunng the Purdue romp, as Shmer and the bookend on the whether these attitudes Me just a passing thing or an indication of things to come other side of the line, 6-9. 265-oound Phil Pozdtc:e~ra~c;,;·~ea:c~h~u~u~·h:,:·z~e~d~t~h;e~ir~im;:;m~e~n;s~e..~t:a~lk~i~ng~t~o~t~h~e~;:~~~~~n~t;:;h~u:s:;.ia.tlic Poz, one would tend to believe the latter. ' frames and quickness to neutralize Boilermaker 
• defensive edns Paul Hanna and Calvin Clark. 
"Poz and I get along real well," Shiner says, "And he's been v,ery helpful. He's had a year's more experience so he helps me with a lot of 
...Carter 
technique. 
"We played well against Purdue, but even a guy like Poz, who's a great blocker, can't be satisfied. We've all got a lot to work on." [continued from page 11] 
The success Shiner has achieved in a shon period of time sometimes causes him to step er's touchdowns last Saturday-back and do a few double takes. ! "His first cut was beautiful, and the pass was 
"It just blows my mind to think I've actually perfect," the coach said. "Anthony has an played a whole football game for Notre Dame," amazing ability to get into position to catch a he says with a wide grin. ''Last year when I ball. The second cut wasn't a good one, but he suited up and ran down the tunnel into the was able to get the ball. In fact, Carter stadium, it was something, but this time it was apologized for the cut when he came to the different. Before Purdue, everybody~ looked stdelines.'' different and I was just real nervous and It is doubtful that Carter will be able to get uptight." open at will a~ainst the experienced Notre _Dame 
It didn't take more than one set of downs, secondary th1s Saturday. Notre Dame 1s not 
however, for Shiner to realize he belonged out 
Northwestern, but then again, sophomore there. 
Anthony Carter is all ready in a league by "I have confidence in what I can do and I've 
!himself.

Bandsalutesgospel music
always felt I could play major college football,'' he adds. While one game does not a season make, the 
From last week's George M. Cohan show to gospel music is 
confidence and experience gained from the 
quite a chan~e in style. However, that ls precisely·what the 
opener with the Boilers should continue to make 
... Friends
versatile Umversity of Notre Dame Band 1s preparing to do
Dan Devine, Mike Courey, and Phil Carter 
this week. This week's halftime show is centered on the
happier people, with the knowledge that the theme a "A Salute to Gospel Music." 
front five can open holes and dominate opposing 
The performance begins with a fanfare incorporating the 
defenses. 
Battle Hymn ofthe Republic and swings intoAmazing Grace 
[continued from page 11)
Already, Shiner has a new quote on his 
and joshua Fit the Battle ofjericho. The next tune has been 
door-the one that says Michigan has never lost 
played byJ'azz and church musicians alike. The band puts
to Notre Dame in South Bend and has Bo 
both moo s together in just A Closer Walk With Thee. 
"I have to hand it to you Bo, that was one hellSchembechler predicting something ''different'' 
Finally the band performs a medley of what are considered 
of an idea.''

from his Wolverines come game day. 
some of the greatest gospel songs ever written--Nobody 
"I'm not sure it was so good, myself. I'm still"I've never been a quote person before," 
Knows the Trouble I've Seen, Swing Low, Sweet Chan'ot, 
ca~ching a. litd~ fla<;k for my choice. But I'mShiner notes as he reached to point out a 
He's Got the Whole World in His Hands and the stirring 
gomg to sttck wtth hun, at least for a while."
highlighted paragraph from Monaay' s .South 
Battle Humn of the Republic. In addition to these gospel
Bend Tribune that now has a place opposlte the "You do that. Don't let 'em get to you. You
tunes the band will play the NBC theme song Proud as a
Sports Illustrated story. ''These just kind of see I don't let anybody do that to me."
Peacock in recognition of WNDU's 25th anniversary. The
remind me what people think about us, and what band's whow as well as a post-game show. 
"Yea, I know. Say ... what's this I hear about I have to do to change that." 
The band's activities of Saturday afternoon are not 
you not being here next year?"
If one game could be used as a barometer for 
comorised solely of the appearance in the stadium. They will 
"Well. ..hey, I gotta go. Listen, tell the boys I an individual, Mike Shiner i~ certainly doing all 
.also present a pre-game concert on the steps of the 
said good luck. 

he can do to change any m1sconcepuons about Administration Building at 1 p.m. 
"They're going to need it ..." the quality of Notre Dame footballm 1980. 

...K.ratner 
r­
[continued/rom page 12] 
. "I would love th~ opportu­mty to be captam, ·but I wouldn't be disappointed. We have a number of capable individuals to fill the role." 
According to Kramer, no one assumes the leadership role more readily than head coach Dan Devine. Specula­ting on who would be next year's field general, Pat ex­presses his preference for Devine retaining his current position. 
"Coach Devine has been a great inspiration to me and to the rest of the ballclub. He 
... really takes an interest in the individuals on the team. I think it would be great if he stayed at Notre Dame.'' 
• • .Yonto 
Kramer also credits former defen­sive standout Mike Calhoun as being a major influence during his career at 
[continued/rom /Jage 12} he admits, "and everybody has to Notre Dame. 
work towards a goal. I tell my ''When things were going bad and 17 years, it would seem only logical to children, I tell my players and I tell the coaches were on our backs, we covet the opening that Devine's resig­mrself to go after what you want with could always count on Mike to keep us 
nation will leave at season's end. al you've got and give it your best loose. He handled pressure well and shot. Then, if it doesn't work out you
"I knew you'd get around to that," always managed to come to practice 
have nothing to be ashamed of.''
he smiles that familiar smile, warning with a smile on his face.'' 
you not to expect a serious answer "Hey, football has been very good to One of seven children, Pat was here. But you can't blame him for me. I think it is the closest thtng to the raised on a farm in the tiny rural town being cautious. game oflife you can find on this earth. of Colton. A finance major, he is 
"I have enjoyed every second of my It allows a young man to experience interested in the agricultural trade association with Notre Dame," he ups and downs, pain and disappoint­along the west coast and plans to ment, victory and defeat. If we can become involved in the wheat trade
says. "And my family feels likewise. Right now the only thing I'm thinking prepare our players for that, then I dealings after graduation. about is this season and winning every think we can be proud of the work we Meanwhile, Pat Kramer re­game on the schedule." do here." mains content with his present
"And I'm just grateful that I've had location, happy to be at NotreBut c'mon coach. Beyond that? 
the chance to be a part of it." Dame.
"Everybody has high aspirations," 


NOTRE DAME 
..._­
OFFENSE 
POS NO PLAYt.R CL Tb 86 IDt.AN MASZTAK JR LT 74 IMIKb SHINbR so I 
LG 67 ROBB GAGNON JR c '57 JOHN SCULLY SR RG 65 1BOB BURGeR SR 
' 
RT 71 PHIL POZD!'.RAC JR St. ' 85 TONY HUNTt.R so QB 2 MIKt. COURt. Y SR
f 
FB 33 JOHN SWt.l~Nt.Y so HB 22 PHIL CARTt.R so 
' 
I 
fL 31 Pt.Tb HOLOHAN SR
I 
p 5 BLAIR KihL FR PK 3 HARRY OLIVeR JR 
DEFENSE 
LT 98 PAT KRAMt.R JR 
RT 

63 DON KIDD SR Rt. 70 SCOTT ZeTTt.K SR LLB 46 MARK ZAVAGNIN so MLB 43 BOB CRABLt. JR RLB 51 JOt. RUDZINSKI so LCB 23 DAVh DUt.RSON so RCB 19 JOHN KRIMM JR ss 29 TOM Dt.SIATO SR FS 27 TOM GIBBONS SR 
Grid pies 

Friday, September 19, 1980 -page 14
The Irish Extra 



Bucs, Irish among favored 
1980 

Paul Mulianev Beth Huffman Michael Ortman Kelly Sullivan Frank LaGrotta Craig Chval Brian Beglane Bill Marquard ~ary G rassey t:ditor-in-Chi~f Sports ~.ditor Assoc. Sports l:ditor Women's Sports t:ditor Sports Writer Sports Writer Sports Writer Sports Writer Sports Writer 12-6, .667 14-4, .778 14-4, .778 14-4, .778 12-6, .667 12-6, .667 15-3, .834 15-3, .834 15-3, .834 
Minnesota at Ohio State Bucks bv 8 Bucks by 12 Bucks bv 21 Bucks by 17 Bucb by 14 Bucks by 17 Bucks by 17 Bucks by 10 Bucks by 15 
N.C. State at Virginia Cavalier; by 3 Cavaliers bv 5 Pack by-4 Cavaliers by 5 Pack by 7 Cavaliers by 6 Cavaliers by 7 Cavaliers bv 3 Cavaliers by 2 Yale at Brown Bruins bv 2 Bruins by i hlis bv 4 Bruins by 3 Bruins by 7 !:.lis by 4 Bruins by 6 B-.-uins by 3 Bruins by 9 
Tigers by 6 

Illinois at Missouri Tigers by 10 Tigers by 6 Tiger~ by 16 Tigers by 10 Tigers by _13 Tigers by 11 Tigers by 10 Tigers by 7 South Carolina at USC Trojans by 14 Trojans by 15 Trojans by II Trojans by 14 Cocks by I Trojans by 12 Trojans by 14 Trojans by 10 Trojans by 3 Dogs by 7 Dogs by 7 Tigers by I
Clemson at Georgia Dogs by 14 Dogs by· 7 Dogs by 14 Dogs by 7 Dogs by 3 Dogs by 8 Alabama at Mississippi Tide by 17 Tide by 10 Rebs by I Tide by 12 Tide by 17 Tide by 20 Tide by 24 Tide by 10 Tide by 4 Cards by 7
Stanford at Boston College Cards by 13 Cards by 8 Cards by 6 Cards by 9 Cards by 3 Cards bv 25 Cards by 12 Cards by 20 Mil'higan at Notre Dame Irish bv ~ Irish hy 6 Irish by 30 Irish by 8 Irish 1->y 9 Irish by.IO Irish by 8 Irish by 7 Irish by 8 
\. 

Pat Kramer 
MICHIGAN 
OFFENSE 

POS NO PLAYeR CL Tt. 82 ·NORM Bt.TTS JR ST 72 tD MURANSKY JR RG 65 KURT Bt.CKl~R SR c 59 Gl~ORGt. LILJA SR LG 67 JOHN POWeRS FR QT 75 BUBBA PARIS JR St. 30 ALAN MITCHi~LL SR QB 2 RICH HbWLt.TT SO FB 32 STAN t.DWARDS SR TB 24 BUTCH WOOLFOLD JR WR 1 ANTHONY CARTt.R SO p 28 DON BRACKhN JR PK 6 ALI HAJ-SHHKH SO 
DEFENSE 
MeL OWeNS

OLB 53 SR 
MIK.i:'-TRGOVC

WDT 77 SR 
TONY Kl:LSit

MG 97 JR 
DAVt. NICOLt.AU

STD 96 SR 
OLB· 81 OLIV i:R JOHNSON SR PAUL GIRGASH
ILB 50 so 
ANDY CANNA VINO SR

ILB 41 Jt.FF COHt.N
ss 10 so 
BRIAN CARPt.NTt.R JR
WHB 9 
MARION BODY JR .
SHB 3 
Kt.ITH BOSTIC SO
FS 13 


-~-~-------~~-~-~ -~--­

The Observer Friday, September 19, 1980 -page 15 
-
' 

Graduate to a hi er challenge. Texas Instruments. 

•1 j l For years you've been proving to your pro-
J fessors just how good 
· you are. Now it's time 
4lll ' ' to prove it to yourself. 
a 
Withahigher challenge. With · 'Thxas Instruments. 
Prove yourself where innovation's the rule, not the exception: 
As a matter of corporate policy, TI has built-in budgets for new, innovative ideas. If you have a revolutionary concept that deserves to be put to the test, the money's there. 
That's just part of the TI challenge. 
Prove yourself in the world's "hot" technologies. 
No technology is hotter, or more fan­tastic, tham microelectronics. And no com­pany is hotter in it than TI. 
Example: The TI 59 handheld calculator has more than twice the primary memory capacity of the three-ton computers of the 1950s. 
And look at these credentials. TI is: 
• 
The world's leading supplier of semiconductors. 


• 
The patent holder for the single<:hip microcomputer and the handheld elec­tronic calculator. 


• The designer and producer of the most complex MOS chip 
arul the most popular microcomputer. 
• 
The inventor of solid-state voice synthesis. 

• 
The largest producer of microelectronic memory products. 

• 
The world leader in Very Large Scale Integration. 

• 
The primary supplier of airborne radars to the U.S. defense program. 

• 
The leading developer and producer of in­frared and laser systems. 

• 
The world's foremost geophysical survey company. 


Prove to yourself where you have the freedom to grow. 
Because TI is like many companies in one, you have the opportunity to move laterally from one specialty to another as well as move up. Without' changing jobs. 



TI's advanced system for lateral career mobility Jets you move up faster. Because the freedom to move sideways is the best way to com­pare technologies and define career goals early on. 
The frequently published TI Job Oppctr­tunity Bulletin lists openings at all Tl facilities and gives TI people first crack at them. 
Prove yourself where it counts. 
TI has been acclaimed as one of America's best-managed companies be­cause we've stayed young and vital while growing big. 
One major reason for our high energy is our move-up environment. New people don't get buried at the bottom of a pecking order, because there isn't one. So if you get a good idea your first week on the job, it gets heard. And you get rewarded. 

At TI, you get every chance to show what you can do. And prove what you deserve. 
Prove yourself in an futernational company. 
TI has hometowns in 19 countries on six continents. You'll find manufacturing in Singapore. Dallas. 'lbkyo. Nice. Buenos Aires. And many other cities around the globe. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
INCORPORATED 
An equal oppo~unity employer M/F 
CopynghtC£> t9EIJ, Texas lnslruments Incorporated 

TI has hometowns to match vour lifestyle. No matter where you call home. From New England to 'Thxas to California. 
Thxas Instruments is interested in graduates from the following specialties: 
• 
Electronics Engineering 

• 
Electrical Engineering 

• 
Mechanical Engineering 


• 
Computer Science (Software/Hardware) 

• 
Industrial Engineering 

• 
Materials Science 

• 
Solid-State Physics 

• 
Engineering Physics 

• 
Engineering Science 

• 
Metallurgy 

• 
Metallurgical Engineering 

• 
Chemical Engineering 

• 
Chemistry 

• 
Mathematics 

• 
Plastics Engineering 


• 
Manufacturing Engineering 'Thchnology 

• 
Geology/Geophysics 



Campus Interviews 
Tl Consumer Products 
Group. From calculators and watches to homl' computers, ell-ct.ronic learning ai<b and more. 
Tl Finance and Account­
ing. !<'or I,>Toup, division, corporate staff or multinational. 
*TI Digital Systems Group. A le;uier in getting the computer closer to the problem through distrihu\,(_~flogic and memory. Sept. :10-0ct. 1 
*TI Equipment Group. Elt.oetro-Optics, !{<ula.r and l>iJ.,rital Systems, Missile and Or1lmmee. Sept. 30-0ct. 1 
*TI Facilities Planning and Engineering. Responsihll• for facilities necessary f(>r manufac­turing and testing-Tl produds. Oct. 16-17 

TI Infonnation Systems and Services. St.ate-{Jf-the­art computer systems and services to 1Ts worldwide operation. 
*TI Materials and Elec­trical Products Group. A world lt>ader in enginl->erL>d materials systems and horne appliance and industrial controls. Oct. 16-17 
Gt..'Ophysical Service Inc. A world leadl'r in the search for oil. 
•TJ Semiconductor Group. &miconduC'lor L1lmJKllll'nts, rnaU.•rials ;md U.•dmoloJ.,•y. Sept. 30-0ct. 1 
Tl Corporate Research, Development and Engineering. PionL>t•ring 
the teehnoloJ.,rit•s re­quirt~l hy J>rt•st•nt and future hu.o;ines::; oppor­tunities. 
*Only thest• groups will be interviewing on campus. If 
you are unal>le to attend these interviews at this time, or 
if you wi::;h to apply with another gmup, i:il.'lld data shwt to: 
George Berryman Fifty Years 'Texas lm;truments, Corpomtc Staffing lnnc?Jation P.O. Box 225474, M.S. 67, Dept. CG ~ Dallas, TX 75265 ~ 
..... 



r-
Editorials 

Friday, September 19, 1980 -page 16 
0££-aunpus crin1e: 
Japan sh6s its guns 
A few suggestions 

1.VI.ichael OnuftYJk 
Serious crime in heavily student~populated South Bend neighborhoods -violent assaults, armed robberies, bur­glaries, and thefts-has escalated drastically in recent weeks. Violence and crime is becoming more of the norm than the exception in these near-to-campus neighborhoods. It is essential that action be taken immediately to combat this sicklv trend. 
While it may be easy to accuse city and police officials for a lack ofstepped-up policing in these neighborhoods, there is only one way in which this problem can be fought. It must take a concentrated effort on the part of each and every group that is associated with student life off campus-there :ue four in particular. The movement must necessarily involve everyone. Not just City Hall. Not just the University. '\lot just student leaders. Not just the police. And certainly ll<lt vigilantes. 
Four key groups all must interact: 

e The City ofSouth Bend must show a sense ofcommunity 
es[.,msibility. If the city government cannot take a 
eadership role, then it will be difficult for the other groups to put forth their best effort. . 
It is imperative that the administration of the city must take the lead. How can the police department, for instance, put enough attention to this social cancer ifit doesn't see any attention coming from the top? 
Last Wednesday, a group of student and University administrative leaders met with city officials-the city attorney, police chief, division chief, city council president, etc. -to discuss the crime issue. While the meeting was held in the office of Mayor Roger Parent, the mayor himself was not in attendance. This indicates that off-campus 'crime may not be on the city's list of priorities. It definitely should be. 
It is a shame·to think ofwhat may have to happen in order for the city, and the mayor in particular, to realize that this problem is anything less than serious. 
eThe University must play a significant role in this matter. It is her students that this situation affects. Ifthe University in turn, doesn't show the necessary interest in this matter, then it is expected that the city will not become fully committed, either. 
In addition to any crime-prevention and crime-awareness programs that the University should organize, it is vital to the crimeprevention effort that student leaders working towards this goal not have their hands totally tied. 
Why, for instance, must Off-Campus Commissioner Mark Kelley have to struggle for weeks to simply attain a maiHng list of students living off campus? Why, for instance, must Kelley have such a difficult time trying to reserve an auditorium, or meetin place, for all students to meet and discuss the issue? Why are certain departments and officials ofthe University not helping student leaders with this effort? 
The University must make a total commitment to students and assist them in their attempts to secure a better living environment. The administrations efforts must go much further than just sounding concerned for public relations purposes. 
eThe landlords, who have been left out of much off­campus crime talk, are also vital. They have a responsibility of making their homes safe for their tennants. As citizens of the city, they also share a responsibility in the upkeep of the community. Landlords, many of whom are absentee land­lords, have not excersiced this responsibility. 
Landlords should be more sensitive to the needs of the 
members of the community-particularly the students' 
need for security. Maybe the landlords, if only for economic 
interests, will begin to help in this effort when they visualize 
the possibility of a trend to move back to campus in 
upcoming years. 

ecommunity residents-students and non-students a­like -will have to initiate organized efforts for the other ~roups to come to their aid. Students must no become tbsentee residents. It is evident that while students see crime .ts the top priority of this community, there are other . residents ofthe neighborhoods that view the students as part ofother community problems. With this attitude, nothing en bl' <lccomplished. 
The students, in order to combat this flurry of criminal activitv must demonstrate their commitment to team work with (;ther residents. Community residents must make an .tttempt to see community problems from the perspective of others. If the students can not realize the concerns of the other residents, and residents the concerns of students, ~olutions to the sitution will never materalize. 

The last time several million 

when college students, who are people got together and watched 
finally casting away the bonds of television for a week, it was called 
childhood, are bored with the old 
Root.r. This time the name of the 

violence. The violence displayed 
five-day extravaganza is Sho-gun, on Sho-gun is like none that has 

and instead of African culture been shown on American tele­

and the sordid history of the vision before-it isJapanese and 

South, America has been cap­it is blatant. 

tivated by samarais and the an­Which brings me back to my
ci<:;nt culture ofJapan. first point, about Americans be­

America's fascination with Sho­ing naturally curious. Curiosity 

gun is based on two phenomena. 

breeds ideas which , in turn lead 
First, Americans are a curious: to possibilities which, in people. America drivesJapanese' America, means money. Like 
cars, rides Japanese bicycles, listens to Japanese stereos, and, ~~~~ b:f%:s!t,~:~i~mm~~~i~~~ of course watches Japanese tele­
And this is a $22 million machine 
visions. Many Americans, hence, which could realize at least that who otherwise would have had are wondering exactly what this much in future reVenues. h\ not ing in common, somethingcountry is about. How are they So don't be surprised if, all ofa to talk about. ShrJ-gun may haveable to be so productive and, as a sudden, it becomes chic to be reinforc.ed my belief thatconsequence, overtake us tech­Japanese. And if you can't be America, particularly collegiatenologically as they appear to be Japanese, than you could at J.east America, loves violence; but ifdoing? 
travel to Japan, decorate your we do see an increase in under­
Few people in this country home ~as Richard Chamb~rlain standing and appreciation for know anything aboutJapan prior has) in Japanese fashion, try Japan and her culture, it will have toWorld Warii; fewer still speak Japanese food, or at least read been worth it. 
the language or understand the Sho-gun. Maybe you'll go so far as =============l 
labyrinth that is Japanese cul­to learn the language which ture. So Sho-gun is providing would not only practically America guarantee you a job ~ap­
with a basic history lesson in proximately ten Japanese busi­A MJIE CNAKJIG.ESSUB Japan. And what better way to nessmen speak i'.nglish for every M17FDRRRHICATICN: 
educate the populace than by American who speaksJapanese), 
presenting a one to three hour but would also make you a hit 
color television lesson in the when ShrrKIIfl makes the re~runs. 
living room ofevery house with a 
I guess ~hat I .am trying to say,
TV. 

is that when something is as 
The second reason America popular asSho-gun seems to be, its 
loves Sho-gun is the violence. I do 
not claim to have watched each 
Mkhael Omt(rak i.r

episode or even to have seen the 
editorialr edtfor uf The Obser11er. Hr>
majority ofwhat has been shown 
ha.r read the fir.rt third of Sho-g1m.
so far; however, in the few 
snatches of NBC's prime-time 
color I have caught, I witnessed 
Doonesbury byGarryTrudeau 


several decapatations numerous swash-buckling sword bouts, and an extremely gruesome scene in which several Japanese were in various stages of crucifiction. · 
Now, it is no secret that violence ~ells television pro­grams, and no matter how "well­done"(to use that old media catch phrase) Sho-gun really is, one has to admit that it reeks of violence. I am normally not sensitive to excessive violence on TV, however after watching several roomfuls of friends thrill to the scene of Richard Chamberlain hacking at the neck of a skinny Japanese fellow, I became slightly disturbed. 
Upon reflection though, I be­lieve that it is only natural for present day college students to react in such a manner. After all, it was this generation of college students who were weaned on the violence of Saturday morn­ing TV shows, raised on the brutality of pro football on Snday Afternoons, and bred to maturity on the homocides and armed robberies of prime time detectives shows during the week. Sho-gun comes at a time 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Managing Editor .............. Mark Rust
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students 0f the 
Editon.als Editor ........... Mike Onufrak
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. It does not necessarily 
Senior Copy Editor ......... Lynne Daley 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reponed 
News Editor .................. Pam DegnaQ
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views 
News Editor ................ Tom Jackman of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and Production Manager, ..... John McGrath the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC Executzve Editor .. Margie Brassil 
marketable potential boggles the mind. This country underwent a fascination with all things t.gyptian at the turn of the last century when archeological dis­coveries at the pyramids were getting much play in the media. The potential is there for 
Japanese fashions, renewed in­terest in the martial arts and Japanese philosohical dis­ciplines, Sho-g11n II, and every­thing from Sho-g1111 lunch boxes to bumper-stickers. 
In any case, the show has given Richard Chamberlain's career a boost, and has given Americans 

IAJ&U, I WAS
IA/HliN lXJ 
HOPIN6 7V
YOfJ HA~ 
HIT TH£ f?OA{)
70 l&AV&? 

Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe Photo Editor .................. John Macor 
Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges 
1 


fhe Observer Friday, September 19, 1980 -page 17 
P.O.BoxQ 

Student leaders let down on off campus crime 
Dear Editor, 
The recent discussions on what Notre Dame should do about off-campus crime are ab­surd. Many of the suggestions made by student "leaders" in Thursday's article on this sub­
ject make this abundantly clear. For example, Paul Riehle's sug­gestion that the University 
lease housing to students is senseless. Notre Dame already does that. Besides, many move off campus precisely because they are fed up with Notre Dame's archaic housing (ei. dorm) policy. hqually senseless is Mark Kelley's recommenda­tion in the same article. The decision of when• one should live once one has decided to leave the campus must be the individual's, not the Universit­y's. Suppose that this were not the case. What would prevent the University from dictating, on the basis ofsafety, the make of car its students drive? 
The University should do nc. more than it is currently doing in this area, expressing its con­cern to local officials. As the article correctly indicates, the burden is on off-campus stu­dents. They have decided to leave the relatively secure con­fines ofthe campus so as to get a taste of the real world. As a­dults, they must accept the responsibility of that decision. 
Ken !Judek 

Cockerill blatantly boycotts reason 
near l~rlitor: 
In response to Dave Cockerill's editorial, "N.D. Boycotts: More Facade Than Fact?", Oh.rerver, Sept. 17, he has missed an important point. To he sure, he has presented a very tight case, but Mr. Cockerill seems to be entirely concerned with the final <:nd o(a boycott. If this were the case, to merely "inflict material harm or at least some sense of shame on the boycotted party," sabotage and violence then become socially conscious acts. Sabotage and violence, no matter what end is gained, arc the epitome of anti­social acts. 
hqual in importance to the ends gained arc the means used. By voting to boycott, a time honored method of non-cooper­ation, N.D. students have, in fact, placed themselves on the most difficult road to social change. Non-violence and non­cooperation require a very high level of conviction, sclf-discip· line, and endurance. These qualities do not come im­mediately upon the decision to advance social change. The de­cision to act, however, and the subsequent vote to boycott, is the manner in which conviction, self-discipline an• 1 endurance begin to become .1art of our characters. Without such a be­ginning, future and more effec­tive social acts might never come about. 
One last note. The last six paragraphs of the editorial arc a prime example of the logical fallacy red11ctio ad ab.rurd11m. The question is a boycott of Nestle and Campbell's products, and to bring in other, hypothetical cases is a shabby attempt to confuse the issue and reduce it to an absurdity. Ifyou're serious about this issue, please write seriously. 
]oh11 Kissell 
Kenney watch 
Syndrome with 
blindfold? 
Dear Edrtor: 
In regard to Paul Kenney's article on Fri., 12 Sept. on the China Syndrome, I would have to 
· ask if he saw the movie that bears that same title? If he did, then he must have been booing and hissing with everyone else, and not paying much attention. As Mr. Kenney so aptly points out, "as anyone who took a high­school physics course should know, power reactors simply do not explode like a nuclear bomb", a point the director also understood. 
At no point in the movie, at least the one I was watching, did anyone mention the possibility of n reactor explosion. What the melodramatic experts were speaking of was a reactor core meltdown. You see, the reason they called the movie "The China Syndrome" was because of the theoretical possibility of an overheated reactor melting through the containment, all the way through the earth, to China. The expert quickly adds that the core would only reach the water table. The sudden cooling of the corcwould cause a huge cloud of radioactive steam to blast fnto the air, ~prcading radiation through the atmosphere. 
Admittedly, the "good guys" do get all the best lines, but that is because they" re the stars. You sec, if the bad guys got all the lines, then they'd he the stars. 
Again, I admit that the movie was melodramatic; yet if Mr. Kenney only saw this one aspect of the film, he must have missed the part that won the Oscar. 
Tom Permccio 
Brassil too conventional on conventionalities 
IJear Rd1tor: 
There's nothing worse for a case of Monday Morning Blues than a Monday Observer article about conventionalities. \"Conventionalities: The easy way out," Monday, Sept. 15.) 
Since "everyone knows that in certain situations certain con­ventions must be followed," why did the Observer spend a 6"x10" space on what wt: already know? \Y/asn't there any other news to print onto p. 2? 
The ideas presented in "Conventionalities" seemed vague, and certainly weren't fun reading about. According to the article, it is a "puzzling fact" that 
everyone follows conventions. Yet this statement is followed by, "Conventions arc simpler, safer, are occurring on campus. I was · and easy-to-use." So is the writer especially gratified to see the puzzled, or not? expanded coverage which you 

are now giving to soccer. AsWas some knowledge or wis­someone who participated indom to be gained from that the sport on a club level whi~earticle? I did not find any al­attending Notre Dame, I feel aternatives suggested for the special pride in helping the"deplorable convention that University to finally recognizeputs up barriers in male/ female the growth ofsoccer and finallyrelationships." (I had enough grant it varsity status.
trouble trying to understnnd 

Not old enough to purchase crups in &>uth Bend 
f Jmr Et!tlm:· 
On Tuesday, ScptcmbL·r 16, a 
what the "deplorable conven­While I have not had the 1friend, Jean Sinkovitz, and I. tion" was.) The closing para­pleasure of watching Kevin Carlos Baeza re~iding at J."Jantl\"1 graph was a dead end: "To try and Lovejoy play, your sports Hall, wer~ dented t_he _rurchasl· work through the fears and com­section has ered in some of its of_a b.ag of potato chtps m a storl·, plications of a male/female per­research. Kevin will not be the ~mg s Cellar loGttcd on l<tt·..~ 1 sonal relationship can be painful first All-America for ND in the Ill the South lknd ar(·a. 
and sometimes unsuccessful... sport. In the middle to late The attendant dainwd that How much easier it is to just 1960's a club player received one must be at least 21 vrs. oLtL•t· 
follow convention and never 

All-America status and as re-to purchast. anything in ti;t. break down the barriers." 
cently as 1973, another club store, which had an obscure sign player, a team-mate of mine pointing this out. We thought itHowmuch easier it was to read received All-America Honor-was a joke so wt· ht·gan !It laugh. Ithe weather report. 
able Mention status. His name told the attendant. "In nw statt·. was Bob Donovan from I'm old enough to buy .P<•tat<• Massachusetts. chips!" Thcattt·ndant re:-.ponded
EIIC'II Rkhi.rki 

that Indiana has certa n Ia ws f( 11 
This recognition is all-the-­
this . .Jean displayed hl·r disap· 
more memorable considering 
proval by saying how backward ...
Saturday issue 

the club status of the sport at 
this state truly is.
the time. ahit in Olltown In my opinion, this l"ntin·
Hope this is of interest to 
ordeal was stupid and pathetit.
you. Keep up the good work. 
W_<.· really do think the laws in
with Alumni 
this state cotKt·rning tht"Sl' matters have gone out of pro· portioh. This is our opininn;
near Editor, 

we'd like to know what tlw opinion of tlw N.l >. co111nH1nitvI was pleased to see your 
thinks of this naive situatiol;.
special Saturday issue this past football weekend during the Purdue game. It is always in­teresting to read what activities 
(.rtrlo.r M. flttc·w 
America losing energy race 
America's energy problem is not a crisis, it is a race for time. The government's misconception ofthenitture ofthe probl~m and itsineptitud¢in providing a constructive plan for futun~ energy use· has turned a solvable problem into an international crisis. Althougb President Carter recently gave himselfan A grade for his handling of energy policy, after the efforts of thrt:e administrationsandseven years ofcongrcssiona'J debate, the energy problem in America remains unsolved. 
America's energy crisl!l is a problem of ap· proach. Through fusion power and solar energy we already possess the technology to meet our energy<]emandsfor the future. The.~urren t mess has resulted from the direction Wa$hington has taken to solve the problem. The basic flaw in the government's energy policy erherged right after the oil embargo in 1973, when President Nixon announced Project Independe11ce\ with the goal of achieving national self sufficiency in energy supplies by 1980. The problem with the Nixon approach, subsequently followed by the Ford a11d Carter administrations, was a matter of degree. American self sufficiency in energy can be attained, but not in seven years. The goal of energy independence requires a long term program ofgrowth, with careful andintelligent development of our' resources and technology. The government's seven year get rich ,quick scheme is not the solution. The alternative is a 
carefully planned  use  of the  vast  potential  
energy  sources  that advanced  technology ·is  
already dose to unleashing.  

Until these new energy ,sources are com· mercially feasible, .the government shouli! concentrate on devising a system for the ef­ficient utilization of current energy resources. The use ofcoal,(<>fwhich America possesses half the woild's known reserves), l)atu~algas, pet· roleum, hydroelectric energy, ·.. geothermal energyand fission power, will provide more than enough energy to facilitate even a large growth in American energy demand. until the new 
Paul Lewis will comment ott politics and otherlssue.r rifnationa!importon a hi-weekly ha.u".r, L_ewis is a/irst-year Notre Dame la'f. sttlder1t, 
PaulLeUJis 
technology is ready for commercial develop­ment in the late 1990's or early 21st century. Instead offeverishly hoping fora large oil find on the continental shelf, the government should be developing a plan to use th<.' ntrrent energy resources for the immediate years ah<:-ad. Washington should be overwhelmingly gene· rous in support or increased utilization of coal and nuclear energy in the 19RO's. Th<.~ negative f'Ovironmcntal impacts of thes<: energy sources wtll only be with us for a short time, then coa.l plants and Three Mile Island can be shut down forever and we can get to work <:leaning upthc atmosphere and the oceans. 
While these current energy sourct·s arc being judiciously promot'ed, Washington should do evel·ything in its power to stinntla It: th!: rt·scill"ch ·~nd developmentof the energy source~ that wi II take over in the 21st century, fusion power and sol;tr /energy. Scientists arc unanimootts in proclaiming that the succssful development of fusion power will solve the world's en<:rgy prv!,.lems. Fusion has all of the benefits of cor.ventional nuclear fission and none of th<.· drawbacks. Fusion runs on an istopc of hy­drogen, deuterium, which is contained in seawater ip. sufficient quanities to la~t many billions of years. The reaction is also pJrfectly safe and produces no radioactive wa~tes. 
Despite the golden futures of fusion power and s,:;lar energy,. technologkal hurdles remain in their development. The commercial develop­ment of fusion power entails enormously complex · physics and engineering probknt)o wbi<:h will take time and money to overcome. It is up to the government to provide the ability to do this. ­
My solution to the energy problem n:quirt:!-o two simple actions by the Aovcrnment;cum· mittnent to longterm devdl1pment of futur<.· energy sour'ces coupled with a program of ef· ficient use· of eurrent resources. hncrgy suf­ficiency will not occur by 1984, no matter wh.n Cartet; Reagan and Anderson say, But, if the gov"ernment takes an intelligt:nt approach to rht.; energy problem, instead ofa political approach, unlimited energy could be available to the world within the near future. 




Michael Molinelli 
For the past four years the Molarity comic strip has been digested along with ground-beef casserole and chicken chow mein in the dining halls during lunch. Nearly everyone is familiar with Jim and the other charac­ters in the strip, but few know anything about Michael Molinelli, the man behind the cartoons. 
Molinelli began drawing the Molarity characters for The Ob.rerver during his freshman year at Notre Dame. Before that time the paper didn't have a regular collegiate comic strip. He submitted six cartoons to be printed under the editorials whenever the staff could find space, which was usually once or twice a week. 
!:<.ventually a night editor became interested in the strip and began pushing for it to be published every day. After the editor brought the suggestion to the attention of the editorial board, the cartoons finally began appearing daily during the last quarter of Molinelli's freshman year. 
Now in his fourth year as a student of architecture, Molinelli will still have another year to continue the saga of the Molarity characters. In the years that he has been writing, the strip has undergone some changes ...For one thing, my handwriting has 

gotten better," Molinelli smiles, "but 
as far as changes are concerned, the 
characters are slowly developing. The 
development has to occur slowly be­
cause every year there are new students 
that must be introduced to the strip 
and it would be easy for them to 
become lost." 

"I've probably become stylized since I began," Molinelli adds. "The em­phasis is on making the strip funny­
you can judge as to the result-but I'm not about to do anything for the sake of a joke." 
Molinelli spends an hour and a half to two hours working on each strip. "It shows ifl spend less time on them," he says. He has been drawing since grade school and as a high school student in New York, he drew character panels which were published monthly in the school newspaper. 
Molinelli relies on the predictable issues to write cartoons that he can pull out at any time to comment on campus activities. "The cartoons are done a week ahead of time so I'm able to interrupt them if an issue comes up. I like to maintain that spontaneity." 
Some ofthe spontaneity was lost last year while Molinelli was studying in Rome. He drew up the predictable strips during his summer break and the rest he sent from Rome, but his pertinency was missing to some ex­tent. 
While he was in Rome a rumor was spread around campus of his alleged death. He was not only aware of the rumor, but as he says with a grin, "I started it." 
"I did it to play up the fact that I wasn't around," he explains, "and to take advantage of my absence. I'm a big Beatie fan, and got the idea from the death scare centered around Paul McCartney. I just wanted to have some fun with it." 
In the past four years, Molinelli has had two negative responses to his jokes. The first was a hate letter he received as a sophomore from a cam­pus maid in regard to the strip re­printed in this article. The maid wrote that she didn't have to meet Molinelli to know what kind of man he was. She added th,tt his jokes smelled and she was sure he did too. Molinelli says that 
he wrote back and said he was sorry 
that she didn't like the humor of his 
cartoon, but he adds, "I've never 
apologized for my jokes and I don't 
intend to." 

His second disapproving feedback 
concerns the recent dolphin jokes. 
"I've had three responses," Molinelli 
explains. "Some didn't like it, period; 
others complained that I was ridiculing 
minorities; and still others thought I 
was ridiculing minorities and liked it." 
It seems there is a fine line between 
jokes that are funny and those that are 
offensive. As Molinelli sees it, "The 
nerve you must hit to make a joke 
funny is often the same nerve that 
creates an issue." 
Of his jokes concerning ND ad­
ministration and faculty, Molinelli 
says, "I've insinuated an administrator 
with two arms on a desk in my joke on 
the housing situation a couple ofyears 
ago, but I don't do blatant personages. 
My jokes are not meant as personal 
attacks." 

When asked if Jim, the main 
character in the strip described by 
Molinelli as "the proverbial anti-hero 
whimp", was a projection of the car­
toonist, he replies, "I certainly wasJim 
at one point. We do have our dif­
ferences, but a certain core unites us. I 
couldn't have Jim do something that I 
could not do." 
Molinelli stresses that his jokes 
aren't meant to ridicule but to show 
ocassional flaws. "They reflect prob­
lems I have with myself as well," he 
says. "Not that I'm a psychoanalyst, 
but I have a tendency to see incon­
sistencies that are funny or that can 
perhaps be lessons." 
l~ach weekly series of cartoons is 
approached with the attitude that the 
cartoonist must win his audience over. 
"I can't rely on a joke that was good 
two years or two weeks ago," Molinelli 
explains.· 

In a final word about the cartoon, Molinelli comments, "It is a lunchtime cartoon strip, the sole purpose of which is to provide humor. With a smile he adds, "It beats eating tacos at least." No doubt there are many students who will agree with him on that point. Ellen Gorman is a St. Ma~y~r 
.rtudent from Mtshmvaka. Thir ir her fir.rt contribution to Fefltllre.r. 

'Syzygy '--A New Dimension in Art at .iWoreau 
Although you may be aware that 
Syzygy refers to the holography 
exhibit at Moreau Gallery, you may 
be less familiar with the title's 
definition. Its meanin~, "a nearly 
straight line configuration of three 
celestial bodies," is Doug Tyler's 
own interpretation. Tyler, an art 
professor at St. Mary's, views the 
mteraction ofthe "three...bodies" as 
analolgous to an artist-work-viewer 
relationship, ideally forming an in­
tensified involvement between them. 
The viewer participating with the . work is one example. 
Tyler believes that "our response to holograms is a dialogue employing mind and body." This is most evident ifone observes viewers at his show. Their eyes and feet simultaneously move forward. They peer at every angle within the suspended scanty one-eighth inch deep, t>lexiglass plaques. Regardless of thetr flatness, the strips of ftlm sandwiched between the plexiglass 

emit a virtual image--one that may be captured at any angle within a 180 degree sphere. 
The "whole message", i.e. holo­graphy, is a relatively new process in which three-dimensional images are recorded on film through interactios of laser beams, only the interferance patterns, ~nd the~ a refc;rance be~ shines on It to proJect an unage. This is similar to a mirage in a desert; the sand (ftlm) acts as tiny mirrors "' (interferance) which reflect an entire form. It is important to use pure light from a laser, rather than incoherant light, such as white light, since the laser's constant wavelength could be more highly controlled. This enables the process of recording the light projected from the image, or inter­ferance pattern. There are many methods of achieving 3-D images; this is the simplest. 
Holography 1s the most advanced artistic medium to date. It presents a wide range of imaging techniques for the artist. In Syzygy, Tyler works with white light transmtsston holo­grams and defractions. He controls the patterns of light waves to create 3-D abstractions, and ersatz of card­board pieces, and montages of ftlm patterns and lines, that, when recon­structed in our minds eye with whi~e light, create obscure forms. Thetr softness is supported by the occa­sional hard line. Some pteces appear as though an actual rainbow was cliJ>ped like portions of a magazine 
ana  reassembled  in  a  collage-like  
fashion.  
Others  have  a  more  abstracted  

surface design with synchonous louver images fibrilating beams of light. The "louvers" change colors and patterns radically much like louvres on a blind; the change varies with our movements. 
Tyler's patterned montages appear the most flat, initially, but the static images become alive as we peer endlessly into the mesh. The webs inconsisrendy phase in and out of existence. Tyler also has on display 
Sue Herbring 

his preliminary drawings--a cornu­
copia of shapes, coiors and textures, 
which by means of a regulated 
rhythm and airy, pastel hues, acquire 
a poetic quality. The light, personal 
touch implied in his drawings, re­
minds us that there is a Dou~ Tyler 
behind the hard-edged scientific 
approach of the holo~ra.Phic pieces. 
This is only the begmnmg of Doug's 
exploration in this medium. He has 
been familiarizing himself with holo­
grams for the past eighteen months, 
aided by a grant, and plans to 
introduce an holography class at St. 
Mary's next fall .. His exhibit will only 
be on display until September 28--a 
visit well worth the experience. It is 
open free of charge, from 9-11 a.m. 
and 12:30 p.m., Tuesday-Friday, 
Saturday and Sunday hours are 
12:30-4:00 p.m. and the gallery is 
closed on Mondays. 
Sue Herbring is a senior art major at St. Milry 's. This is her first contribution to Features. 

Friday, .September 19, 1980 -page 19
Features 
• I I 
,,l I 
l 
l 
l 
l 
1 • 

LEITERSTOALONELYGOD 
The Epic Hero of the Senior Bar 
He was certainly one of the Big Men on Campus in hts Senior year. The night before graduation, he brought his parents to the Senior Bar, where he had carved his name on the walls of the john. He kept pumping nickels into the stereo until everyone in the place knew how closely he identified with Sinatra, belting out the words of that anthem of self-reliance, ''I Did It My Way." 
"It's my song," said the Big Man, and everyone knew what he meant, though natuarally some other Seniors felt it was their song, too. "It's the music I want played at my funeral,'' the Big Man said. His parents wept openly with pride, and the crowd gave a cheer for the foresight. None of that "Nearer MY God To Thee" stuff for the Big Man at his exit. He had the guts to make life happen, and he would be no man's stoo~e, pimp, or patsy. ·When he had fimshed the fight in fifty or sixty years, whether on top or at the bottom of the heap, he would have beaten the system because he wouldn't give in. Whatever friends or enemies sur­vived would acknowledge his tri­umph: ''At times he might have been a mean S.O.B., but you've got to admire a guy like that, because whether it was women, or jobs, or playing the horses at Belmont he always insisted on DOING IT . ·1s WAY." 
"I did it my way," say the self-celebrating Senior, the hero in romance he is dreaming about his own life. "I did it my wa:y_, " as though he w.ere solely responstble for his conception and nurture in ways unimagined even in the birth of gods. 
"He did it HIS WAY, says his father, "but I wonder how?" 
"He did it his way," says his mother. "He's a Big Man on Campus, and we couldn't help. We never finished college." 
:'We paid ~ost of his bills," says hts father. We helped fmance his car." 
· "Don't throw it up to him," says his mother. "It's the least we could do. He's worked every summer since hi~h school. ' ' 
'He's a good kid," says his father. ''This is a big night for him. I just wonder what he means when he says he did it his way." 
At the bar, the Big Man stands staring into his beer. You get the feeling, watching him, that it must be lonely at the top. It must be awesome to reflect on the kind of courage it takes to do things your way. His girlfriend, to get his attention, lights a cigarette, takes a drag on it, and hands it to him, saying "Our way." 
"Whenever I look back on these clays," he says, "I'll know it wouldn't be the same if you weren't here." 
She gave, as the novelists say, a faint batsqueak of fear. ''Are you going someplace I'm not going?'' she said, taking the cigarette back as though she had decided not to share it. 
"I'm just saying," he said, "That without you, there wouldn't have been so many laughs, and I'd have had a lot less fun these four years." 
''And a lot more laundry you'd have to do, and a lot more papers you'd have to type, and a lot more dishes you'd have to wash, and a lot more meals you'd have to cook. The only ~hing yo~' v~ done for yourself lately ts to smile. She managed to smile herself, as though it were her gesture of adjustment for sounding more casual. "You sound like you're saying goodbye." 
· "Oh honey,'' he said, "We'll talk about it later. You know that I know no man is an island.'' 
"You're not an island," she said "You ' re an endangered species. ' The government should put you in a sanctuary, or vou'll be the last of your kind." ' 
Her irony, went over his head, as irony is aP.t to do when a bar is cro~ded. 'We're special," he said. "Somebody up there likes us." 
''l'ts hard to know," she thought, "how heaven could love him more than he loves himself. ' ' 
Being middle-aged means more then the purchase of mass quantities of "Oil ofOlay", it's also a tune when many a poor soul sits back looks at his populated suburban squalor and wonders what happened to the swaying palms and acomadat­ing natives he had dreamed of in his youth. Often, a male will become paranoid that he has lost raw sexual appeal and take off after the babysit· ter, and in particularily extreme cases, the affltcted one may indeed give his wife, kids, and job the boot and run away in search of hi~ respective mental oasis. The film 
"Middle Age Crazy" is about the latter. 
The film focuses on the life of Bobby Lee Burnett (played by Bruce Dern) a builder of taco stands who ha~ made muchos pesos, he lives in a emblematic example of housing for the upper middle class hoardes. replete with hot tub and a myriad of Boston ferns. He has one son who looks suitably well shorn and man­nered, and most important a shapely wife(amply played by Ann Margaret) who's only existence in life would seen to be to please her spouse sexually. This is certainly not a scenario that you'd expect to compel a man to whig out. However the movie shows that hot tubs and ferns do not alone make for an idealic existence, especially when one is troubled internally ..The movie opens with the celebrations of Burnett's' f~rtieth birthday P.arty. Predictabley, hts love mesmenzed wife has gone off the deep end in planning the celebrations that include a painfully reausuc home video birthday card (let's see the Jones') beat that!) that rivals anything your Uncle Geor e 
has ~ver made in super 8. As the evemng rolls alons, 1lSsorted friends and relatives remmd Burnett to the point of naucous redundancy of his newfound forty years status. After awhile this triggers an introspective switch within his mind and he begins to analyze his life. He wanders about the party in a stupor, oblivious to that about htm. A key moment occurs as Burnett wanders into a room to find his son.enga~ed ~n d~praved immoral acts wtth hts /trlfnend. He slips away unnotice and experiences the first of many daydream/fantasies. This one involves his son's girlfriend and the backseat of a car The next few weeks has Burnett sp~nding more and more time fanta· SIZing about activities not normally experienced by average folk. The 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
There is a drama one plays in his imagination when he stands alone upon the stage. He has just danced the perfect Nutcracker; he has finished a flawless performance of Hamlet; he has sung Puccini as Caruso would sing it; he is being applauded by the King of Sweden as the Nobel Laureate writing the world's graetest novel. Whenever the crisis of one's creaturehood is reached, when the test comes in which a human being confronts his destiny, the setting will be solitary, and he'll have nothing to lean upon but his own naked energies. 
It probably feels like that to be the Big Man on Campus. It probably feels like being 01' Blue Eyes, or the Lone Ran~er without the mask. Over a dozen tunes that night he played Frankie's disk. Only his parents, and his girlfriend, and some guys he lived with, and a teacher or two who had given him breaks on term papers, wondered what "his way" was. 
A year later, when he married the Boss's daughter, everyone knew which way was his way. When he goes out to night clubs, he still asks the band leader to play, ''I Did It My Way." His story is one of those success stories in America where the hero worked his way up from the top with a great deal of intergrity. 
REEl. REVIEWS 
Youthful Spree in ?vl.iddle Age Crazy ' 


aeath of Burnetts father (superbly played by Eric Christmas) brings his weeks of self doubt to a climax, badgered by minnions of relatives, Burnett literally "runs away" and buys a Porshe 928, in addttion to bedecking himself in the requisite "polyester cowboy" image. At this point things begin to go awry on a grand scale. Burnett inexplicably fears he has lost his sexual attraction, a dubio.us notion at best since his lusty wife promised him new fron­tiers sexually everyday or as Burnett himself says, "Tonight we're in the cloths dryer.'' His son not only wants to quit college but has gotten his girlfriend in a pregnant way as well. 
' Burnett ends up shacked up with one of the Dallas <;:owgirls who only wants men who 
Ryan V er Berkmoes 
don't want strings-i.e. good worry· free sex. In a move better befitting a horny adolescent, Burnett throws his career and family to the winds, in a tradeoff for the cheerleader, unfor­tunately she decides this smacks abit to much of strings and unceremo­nio,usly dumps him. Our principal Is now left in a decidedly unfortunate situation; no family, no job, no friends, no mistress, but he still has his 928. Here the movie takes a predictable turn and the final ten minutes are spent watching him learn what a naughty boy he was, how lucky he really is(not many people have hot wbs). 
The movies pace remains brisk, but the content doesn't. The film enters the same detached state ofit's central character. This doesn't mean it's not entertaining it just lacks the creative bite that character­izes an exceptional effort. Overall the acting is very good. Bruce Dern has been trying to shed the image of a deranged loony ever since he gunned down John Wayne in "The Cowboys". His performance here 
•should bury it fort-yrr.
1 Ann Margaret should reassure those viewers worrying about their own mid-life crisis that they need not worry. Now in her forties, Ann has gained in acting skill, and is just as sultry as ever. The ftlms standout performance is turned in by relative unknown Eric Christmas as Burnett's father. One wishes he would have been utilized to a greater extent. 
In fmal summation, despite it's occasional blandness, "Middle Age Crazy'' overall is an amusing and diverting look into a condition that afflicts everyone to some extent, sometimes sooner than 0 u• expect 

1 
1 
1 
~ 
... 1' 
1' 




r 
I ,. 
I 
, I ' 
,' 
I 
~ 
I 
I
,
, 
' ~ 
' 
' 
,' 
' 
J 
' 
' 
! 
The Observer~-=---=-=.o === 
Weekend 

Campus 
7 p.m., film, "fragrant flower vs noxious," Library Aud. 
7,9,11,p.m., film, "and now for something com­pletely different", k ofc, $1. 
8 p.m., film, "salt of the. earth" washington hall, free. 8:30p.m., concert, poco, ace. $7.50 & $8.50. SATURDAY ShPTr.MBr.R 20 8 p.m., concert, anne murray, ace. SUNDAY Sr.PTr.MBr.R 21 
7 p.m., symposium, "college to career days", carroll hall (smc). 

Psyche staff announces workshops 
The Notre Dame Counseling Center, staffed by faculty and graduate students in the counsel­ing psychology program, is of­fering a series of workshops throughout the current academ­ic year. Workshops scheduled for this semester include Assertiveness Training, Life and Career Planning, Study Skills and Stress Management. The work­shops offer a blend of didactic and experiential learning, with special attention given to the particular interests ofthe partici­pants. All workshops will be conducted in the Counseling Center (Room 400, Administra­tion Bldg.) and are open to all students, faculty and staff of the Notre Dame -St. Mary's com­munity. A limited number of participants can be accom­modated by each workshop, so anyone interested is asked to sign up in advance by calling 28 3­1 718 or by coming up to the Counseling Center. A brief description and schedule of each workshop follows. 
The workshop on Responsible Assertiveness offers training in discriminating among assertion, nonassertion and aggression. There is a particular focus on identifying and developing the beliefs, thoughts and actions that show a high regard for one's own personal rights as well as the rights of others. The 4-session workshop will be conducted in a group format that will include discussions, role-playing exer­cises and home practice activit­ies. Sessions will meet Mondays and Thursdays, Sept. 22, 25, 29 and Oct. 2: 6:30 to 8:30p.m. 
The Life and Career Planning workshop is intended for indivi­duals interested in exploring personal directions with regard to their vocations and their lives in generaL The workshop in­cludes structured exercises con­c~rning career plans, an admini­stration of the Strong-Campbell Vocational Interest Inventory, and directed discussions to clarify each participant's values, interests and abilities as they relate to life choices. A $2.00 fee is asked of each member for computer scoring of the Strong­Campbell Inventory. Sessions will meetThursday evening, Oct. 2, 9, ancj..)6: 7 to 9 p.m. 
Molarity 
G£oR4/A ""TCCH 
OKLAHDHA !5"2. f.NDEP "16 GAM£ S1R£AK ; IowA U5C 111.3 AND nl£" 
GREEN ~RSEY GtAH£: u~c 1117! 

~~ 
Peanuts 
TI-IAT'S TOO BAD...

I 51-lOWED MV COW 
DRAWINGS IN SCI-IOOL TODA~ 
BUT DON'T LET THEM 
AND EVER~ONE LAUGI-IED 
DISCOURAGE ~OU ... 


ACROSS 23 "Sally, -" 59 -canto 25 "-True 1 -·nine-27 Old cloth 60 "...sin to Love" tails measure tell-" 26 Verdi opera 5 Great 28 Gave up 61 State in 29 A Martin racehorse 32 Beat It! Brazil 30 Raison d'­10 RegaHa 35 Frame of 63 Spanish 31 Dennis and group mind house Doris 14 Candlenut 37 Greek vowel 64 Stove part 32 Emulate 
trees 38 "Oh -" 65 Torment Nyad 15 Used oars 42 Three on 66 -were 33 Beverage 16 Rollcall a clock (similarly) plant 
word 43 Arab gulf 67 Teasdale 34 Shore bird 17 AHitude 44 Sea and 68 "...oH-the 35' Title 18 Hang bowling Wizard" 36 Huzzah! 
loosely 45 cane 69 Nota-39 Take steps 
19 Freedom 48 Be sick 40 Playground from con· 49 ''The Wreck DOWN feature straint of-" Isle named 41 Buck or cob 
20 Boring job 55 Shaping for goats 46 Greek 21 Brand machine 2 Love, in goddess 22 Prepared 58 Quaker Amiens 47 Guevara 
for combat pronoun 3 Sample food 48 Relative 4 Sugar of si si suHix 50 Pal of

5 Trying Aramis experience 51 German 6 Gussie of river tennis 52 Degrade 7 Oscar or 53 Vamlsh 

Oble ingredient 8 Notnaive 54 Make happy 9 Cool drink 55 Eastern 
10 Tiegs land 11 Enlarge 56 Thomas­.12 Gaelic Edison 13 Garden 57 Row 
intruder 61 Face the 21 Lagertof pitcher 22 Exist 62 Past 
9t19tao 24 Shipshape 63 Taxi 

MASS followed by
supper 
every
FRIDAY 
at the 
Friday,.September 19, 1980 -page 20 
AND THIS ON£, t1Y PPIJDE 
AND iJ(J(, FROH THE 
FIRS! ctAHE' PLAYED IN NOTRE DAM£ 6TADIVJvl SMU l<J30 II 


I'M GLAD ~OU SAID T~AT...I FEEL T~E SAME WALt... W~l{ S~OULD I LET THEM DI5COURA6E ME? 

The Daily Crossword 

9/19/80

© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
~~"~::t II 1$1.00 OFFI 
any regular album or tape purchase with this coupon. Limit 1 per person. Expires 
Oct. 1. 1980 
Michael Molinelli 

Charles Schulz 



The Observer Friday, September 19, 1980 -page 21 
" 

1 I I 
! 
l 
I 
1 
l 
l 
~ 
t 
Steve Mtller anri the remainder ofthe soccer team wtll host Ohio State tonight at 8 p.m. on Cartier Field. The Xavier Musketeers wtll invade lnsh country on Sunday. [photo by John MacorJ. 
Weekend in Sports 
.~ Ji)x . .
...·.· 

Henry Valenzuela wtll be swinging for the Irish against Valparaiso tomotTow at 9 a.m. on jake Kline Field and against 
· Circle Sunday at 1 p.m. Rachel 
The /n'sh field hockey squad hosts Franklin today and Kalamazoo on Monday. Saint Mary's field hockey team will host the same Frank/in team tomorrow atlO a.m. 
·,',, 

· Sheila Cronin will join her lnsh teammates to host Northern lllinots today at 3 p.m. and Rail State tomotTow at 8 a.m. [photo by John MacorJ. 
''Blonde Mo '' and the rest of the Belle tennzs team face Ball State Fnday at 3:30 
p.m. [photo by Chns ..Spitzer]. 

.. -·· 
..,.,_~w,.·•.; 

The Fighting /n'sh football team wtll face-off.against the Michigan Wolverines at 1:30 p.m Saturday tn Notre The Notre Dame Rugby Club wrll take_ on. Ohio Northern University justDame Stadium. [pho:o by john Macor]. 
pn·or to the start ofthe Notre Dame-Mtchrgan clash tomotTow. [photo by r:hris Salm'no . 

r 
,~ 
' 
,
, 
~ 
i r 
,r 
,__ 
• 
I I, 
The Observer 
(continued/rom page 24) 
... Irish 
boom in Division I is threatening to keep the Irish from acheiving their goal ofnational prominence. 
The word is out already that tonight's op­ponent, Ohio State (8 p.m. on Cartier Field), has made the decision to make soccer a major priority. It seems the Buckeyes don't want to be second to Indiana in anything. The same is true ofMichigan State and a growing crop of other local schools. 
A few superior recruits can have such an effect in the sport that two years from now, the Irish may face an impossible task in Division I. Without monetary help, Notre Dame won't ever reach 'the hump', let alone cross into the locale now reserved for Hoosiers, Billikens, and their kind. 
The immediacy of the Monogram Club's plan is a mystery. Hunter's opinions have never been solicited, before or since the University's state­ment on minor sports and scholarships last spring. Thus, Notre Dame soccer remains in a crossroads­
type situation. 
Allowing the team to continue in its present status invites a swift voyage to obscurity as the soccer boom progresses to the collegiate level. It won't make sense to force the teatr. to play a I )ivision I schedule, but there is no way around that obstacle according to N.C.A.A. statutes. 
The loss in St. Louis pointed to some glaring weaknesses in the Irish as a team. By no means, however, is it time to quit. 
With some gesture of UniversitY initiative, the 

: 
I;ish could patch up the areas where their personnel and system make their limitations, at best, fragile. The team still has the potential to grab a post-season bid; and, as I.U. coach Jerry' Yeagley will attest, Notre Dame can pose prob­lems for anybody on their schedule. The St. Louis affair was a combination ofteam breakdowns, but there's no reason for an obituary yet. 
What's really needed is some word, one way or the other, as to whether the program will fizzle onward as an object of token applause and toleration, or become the dominant soccer force that it could be. 
Sports Briefs 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team, coached 
by Erin Murphy fell to St. Joseph's college 
15-10, 15-8 and 15-6 last night. 
The Belles will play at Grace College on 
Monday. 
Notre Dame's women's tennis ·team swept 
Manchester  college  9-0  yesterday  in  dual  
meet  competition,  pushmg  theu  season  
record to a perfect 4-0.  

The Notre Dame waterpolo club will face Western Michigan today at 6 p.m. in the Rock. · 
The Michigan pep rally will take place today at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center. Featured spe(lkers are Pete Demmerle, Mike Courey, John Hankerd and coach George Kelly. 
to Notre 

Friday ,_September 19, 1980 -p~ge 22 
• • • Humility 
(continuedfrom page 24} 
trenches. 
Better think about the pub­licity twice, Mike, just think, years from now you could be mto iced tea, baby shampoo, or even pantyhose. 
What about the offensive line, those big guys Courey and Carter work behmd-that line that was awesome against the Boilers? Those big boys give all the credit to their coaches, especially Meyers and Boulac, and of course, their middle man, captain John Scully. 
Then, there's the defense. Mark Zavagnin, elected AP defenseman of the week along with teammate Scott Zettek for their Purdue game performan­ces, wasn't about to talk too much about his performance after the 31-10 win. No, he wanted to tell me what a great leader linebacker Bob Crable is. 
The list goes on, and on, and on. 
The team is a close-knit unit, and one that wants to, plans to, and will win. 
The Irish have a ahead let's · 
big game is against the Irish. Notre Dame must go week after week facing team's up for an upset. 
It takes drive, determination, talent and guts to get through just one week of what the Irish must face for several months. 
What gets them through? What keeps them sane? What keeps them together? At the moment, it looks liice 
their talent, their enthusiasm and even their humility. 
Michigan to invade South Bend 
AP) -Michigan's 
Wolverines, promising an alto­
gether different football game 
and marked improvement, in­
vade Notre Dame where the Irish 
have had two weeks to prepare 
for the clash of the two ranked 
Midwest teams. 
"I've always been a believer in 
the concept that a team's great­
est improvement during the 
course of the season comes 
between its first and second contests," said Coach Bo Schembechler whose 14th-rank­ed Wolverines opened the season with a harrowing 17-10 victory over Northwestern. 
Confirming Notre Dame Coach Dan Devine's suspicions, Schembechler added, ''Anyone who saw the game last Saturday realized that we were not using everything available to us in terms of our offensive and de­fensive thinking. We'll play a 

Tues October 28 -Bowling Green
Notre Dame 
FRI.. NOVEMBER 21 -MICHIGAN TECH 
(continuedfrom page 24)
(8:00p.m.)

Ticket Office 
-M1ch1gan Tech

Sat November 22 unity to get through our 
i800p m 1 

schedule," he laughs. "But as
FRI., DECEMBER 5 -IlliNOIS CHICAGO CIRCLE long as we have it, there's no Sat December 6 -IllinOIS Ch1cago C1rcle 
283-7354 
reason we can't go all the way."
i800p m 1 

After being saturated with
THURS.. DECEMBER 11 -MICHIGAN STATE 
Fn Decemb(r 12 -M1ch1gan State Tom's optimism, it's easy to 
• NOTREDAMEHOCKEY • FRI.. JANUARY 16 -NORTH DAKOTA understands why his coach 
different kind of game this

• Breakaway from the usual and enjoy Notre Dame's most excit­
Saturday. It will be a different

ing and fastest moving sport. HOCKEY. Student season tickets 
ball of wax." 

cost $30 tor fifteen home games. Or, you can order "First­
"They didn't show a great deal 

Game-of-Series" tickets at $14 or the "Second-Game-of­
against Northwestern," said 
Devine. "They ran from one

Series'' tickets at $16. Order now to insure your place in the 
basic formation. In our game last year, thev showed 10 different 
arena. General admission sale tor individual games begins 
September 15. No student discount tor individual game tickets 
sets."

it any remain after season ticket sale. 
Last year Notre Dame blocked a field goal at the end ofthe game to preserve a 12-10 victory at Michigan. The previous year, Michigan defeated the Irish 28­14 at South Bend. 
Michigan's main weapon on offense against Northwestern was Anthom· Carter, a wide re­ceiver who caught two touch­down passes, returned two punts for 32 yards and two kickoffs for 60 yards.

Captain .Co-Captain Co-Captain Jeff Brownschidle Don Lucia Dave Poulin ==================~·~ 
Senior Defenseman Senior Defenseman Junior Center 
STUDENT TICKET Home Games All home games 
,,.DeSiato 

start at 7:30p.m. EST unless otherwise noted. 
Sat January 17 -North Dakota 
describes DeSiato with such
~ STUDENT·TICKETAPPLICATION ~ 
FRI.. JANUARY 23 -DENVER 
fondness and respect. "Tom may
Sat January 24 -Denver
• # Of Student Tickets REMIT BY CHECK OR MONEY ORDER ONLY TO: • 
FRI.. FEBRUARY 20 -COLORADO lack in size, but he's got a lot of University of Notre Dame • COLLEGE 
heart," saysJohnson. "He's one
• 15-GameSeason Ticket@ $30 Hockey Ticket Committee 
Sat February 21 -Colorado College 
tough football player and we're
• 
__ First-Game-of-Series Ticket@. $14 Notre Dame, IN 4655S • FRI.. FEBRUARY 27 -WISCONSIN Sat. February 28 -W1sconsm really happy to have him." 

• 
__ Second-Game-of-Series Ticket@ $16 NAME-----------• The "First-Game-of-Series" ticket covers admission That's nice, because you get 

• 
Information on distribution of student ADDRESS-------------• to the seven games in bold print The "Second-Game-· feeling that Tom DeSiato is 

• 
hockey tickets will be, forthcoming in the' CITY ____STATE ____z1p____ • of-Series" ticl<et covers admission to the' eight genuinely happy to have Notre • OBSERVER. . • 


remaining games in the home schedule. 
Dame.

••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••i................... 

-~ ------~-­
I 

l 
l 
,1 
, 
1 l 
~ 
Name that penguin 
The Notre Dame athletic department, along with the Observer, has found a mascot for this season's hockey team. But we need a name and someone to fill the bill. 
Name that penguin. .. be that penguin. 
First prize is apair of season tickets for the best nickname. 
The competition lasts until Sept. 26. 
Send all applications to: 
The Observer Hockey Mascot BoxQ 

Notre Dame, Indiana Or drop your application off at the Observer offices, fourth floor of LaFortune. 
I'''''':::::'''~''m''':::;~;~<~~~'l;h:bilt'''''»'''''''~~''"'"'~"'''''') 
Address: 

i====================================================================================================================:=:=============:========::;:;:::::;::·=·=:=====;===:===:=======;=====================I! 
Phone:  
~  Winner shall be notified by phOne.  li  l[![  You will be notified by phone of a tryout.  lll!  
~~;~::::;:;:;:::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~~;  


Oassifieds 
Notices  Tickets  I rwcd 1!!6.\  I stu  tic for Mich. call Pete  For Sale  I need Mich. St. tkkets. Call Chris· 1629.  COACHi·.S ll1·.VIN1·. ANI l I.ANilRY...ANil TH1·. STATIST!·  
I. YONS G RA I>S I need to talk to lormt.·r rc-;klcn~" ot l.vun!-1 l hll who llilv~ ,~.trt1Uuutcd sinc:e 1.977 for a story in the Ohservc..·r. Plea!\e c:all or writl·: john Hil()lins 323 Sorin 2l!HI~B or ·the Observer at 2!!.3·!!661 and leaV<· a llll'!\SIIJ.(l'. ST. LOUIS CLUB FOOl l STAN I>: Thi• Sat in front of Sorin,AII St. l.ouisuns .Ut: askcd to !\top hy for an hour or two and hc:lp out ht·p;inninJ,tat 10:00. Questions K<•vin \ 3479) Lost&Found lOST: A chc<k p.tvable 10 the U ol Nt>. Lost in the .lft:.l of 1-t.1ycsHcotly bldj~. Check was si11ned by my f.nher. Jo.arl Smith. Ple:lsc call Grell at 6764.  Need 2 MIUII<;AN GA"s Will TH.AI li·. 2 Michi!(an Stale GA"s \­c:tsh). Please ,·all Slll'ila 41 ··14ll Nl·.i·.l li·.l l: 2 or 3 (;A tick'"" I"' ~I ich game. 'X'illing to p;ly ver.v hi1-!h fll'll d! Call 1SMC) ~431 up lo s,.,, I<J. !fS!:f:JS %%%'Yc1 Lcprec.:h.tun \\ill p.l\ a pot o· !(old li>r Mich. Ti' ,.,II '"" H'i113 HI·.I.P! S1·.NIOR N1·.1·.1lS TO I·.N­TI·.RTAIN PARI·.NTS ANI> FIUI·.NilS FOR ONI·. LAST Wl·.­i·.Ki·.NI> UNili·.H THI·. GOI.IlhN I>OMi·.! Nr·.i·.ll AS MANY GA TICK1·.TS TO Tilt·. MICHIGAN GAM 1·. AS POSSIBI.I· .. CALI. I >IAN I·. AT 67 32. %%%% I lesparatcly-need 2 GA"s fi>r MICH call Mary 4-1-4494 lli·.SPI·.RATI,I.Y Nl·.l'll 2 STU·  olc.ltimers will trade our 4 adjoH:cnt studc.:nt f(Jotball til:kets in middle of student scc.:tion {sec:. ~ 1, row 42) for ~·our 4 adja<.:t:nt season tkkets if yours arc above row 20 and anvwhcrc in the "itadium otlu:r than thc. student sc<> tions. 01.1 lTIMI•.RS WILl. TRAil!' OUR4 AI l)ACJ,NT STUili,NT FOOT· BAi.L S1·.ASON TICKI·.TS IN STU· I li·.NT S!•.<TION lSi·.C. 31. HOW 42) FOR YOUR 4 AllJAC!-.NT FOOT­BALI. Si·.ASON TIC!<i,TS ANY­WIIr·.RI·. r·.LSi·. (OUT OF STU.I li·.NT Sr·.CTIONS) ABOV1·. ROW 20. CALL 272·!!8H. I N1·.1·.1llGA MICHIGAN TICK1·.TS FOR MOM ANI> llAil. I CAN PAY UP TO !25 I'I·.H TICK1·."1". Pl.i,ASI,  9 3/4% mortgage money available for 270H 1·.. l·.dison, .~-bedroom ranch, hasL·nwnt, ncar N.l).. shnppin~. st:hools, huslincs. All offers t"onsidcr­<·d. including land contract. Call John Kurhctis. 29 1·081 0, Century 21, W & K. 233-3161. IC 197'> PI~'· Grand Fury, automatic, new tircs, excellent condition. l'.xtra deluxe features. $1500. Call to sec <tnd test drive 6106. "67 Cutlass Supreme I'S, PB. AC, hut:kct scats, c:hrome wheels. Cruisin' machine li>r $4~0. Call P.M. 234·1972 1973 Gremlin, 56,000 miles Good Condition S950 Call Mike after 3:00 at 2H3·6244  .Junior Parents Weekend Chairl11lll1 applications now being ac..·c.:eptcd. Get applkations from 1 11t the Swdcnt Ac..·tivitics Offke of duss offi<·crs: MIKI·. I077 M 1·.GAN '2126 SUZI 6737 KHTH 8198 lli·.Aili.INI, SI·.PTI,MBI·.R 21 ~ Ni·.i·.ll 2 Michigan tix. Call Jeff"' 1539 St. Marv"s COI.I.I,Gi, TO CARH.H I lAYS ·sept.l1-24 "Women, \X'urk, & the I.iher:tl Arts'" Sunday, Sept.l1· 7pm. Carroll Hall  ClAN. YOU GUYS W1·.H1·. SUP1·.R! \X'HO \X'II.I. SHOW Ul' AT Tff:·. (;AMI·. A:GAINST IW ON SUNI>AY? \'<111.1. llO TYPING :"<r·.AT. At:­Cl'RATh, I,Xf'r·.Rit·.NCI·.I l Hr,ASONAili.J· RA ThS. CAl.I.: 21!7· 5162. Hl.·~· Kc.·n tSupl.·rstar). (;nod lut:k again'ot tlw Bul kt.',\'cs! Your Scnion­mottt.•s. I k·o1rSrasiu,l'm in lovl.· ~lu,l) with vou Your, linin,t.: lt.lll Admin·r · NOTICh: Th,· wonwn ul.lllinois .11·,. here.·. Lock !Jour door!\. (a~~ .dl till kids oft the street. N.l ), willn.-,·c..·r lw th<· Mme. \X'r·.I.UlMI· BAU!r·.I.OH­1-.l"I'S.  
Kew.trd. I.OST Cht.s Rin!(. Gold with )(recn 'lone. ( lne side of rin!( has I he .rate of Fhlridol c1n it with ac.h1lphin cJVt·r it. It's a ll)l!O H.S. the n.tme is A. Crawford Mosley. lniti:tls Me llMG ... C;t\11620 and ask lor l>avid (;addie. RI·.WARI l. LOST CALCUI.ATOR CASIO MOI>t·.l. TI".I.I.S TIM!, ANI> llATI, WASAGIFT~~U For Rent FOR K1:NT: Ul(ly llucklin!( Rent·A·  lli·.NT MICH TIX. BIG BUCKS!! CALL RITA-1344 Nl·.i·.lli·.ll2 ARMY (;.A. TlX ANI! 2 MIAMI G.A. TIX. lli·.NISI' AT ~H162 many POCO TIX and HOMI·.COM· lNG TIX av:Lilahlc. Call Pe~t or Kathy ~6l!H9. Will pay h1g bt1cks for Mic.:hig:tn · tic.:kets. }{dative~ coming from Honolulu! Call Tom at 234·5782 lli·.SI'I,RATI·.! Need Mich. tix, stu· dent or GA UU. Call Tim 7323.  PHON1·. TIM AT 289·01!!5 ! N1·.1·.1 l 2 MSU Tix-$$! Call Jim 3.\49. Ni·.J·.Il TWO GA TICKI·.TS TO MIAMI FOR VISITIN(; MOM & I >AIl CAl. I. SANilY 272-5198 I need STUil1·.NT or Gi·.Ni·.RAI. AllMISSION Michigan Ticket' Call TOM at 1700 l'l.hASI·. ! FORSAI.I·.:Two Michi!(anGA Tix, to the highest hidder. Call Mark, 233­5520.  HI·.Y WALL­AR1·. YOUPersonals COMING TO OUR PART SAT. NIGHT. OR WHAT? MTM Ilear M.B.F., Now that vou"vc ron· vcrted and hl•gun worshipping th<..· Quality Backrubs. Call Brian 234· por<.:elain Go~on Saturday morninAs. 09!!9 arc you plannin~ to hold '.\'cek1y servkes? If so, c.:all us·wc'll join you. llRII>Gi·.T"S BARGAINS: 4·7 Ha! 1-fil! Two J·.x-Hogs P.S. Next time: HAPPY HOUR llAII.Y. 2~·CI,NT go to Chit..'agn B1·.1·.H 9:30-10:30 NITI-.I.Y. Comc sec} >anny Zimmerman in t-he.· To: All interested PARTYING Nazz this lriday evening. A rc,~l guitar p 1 uti~s. Re: Fn.:e gathering of people spec.:tacular. Kcc..·p on strum man Dan. ; for tlw purpose of <:xrhanging opinions or PARTAKING OF Will trade all or part 8 Mich. St. GA THI·.IR WHIMS. (Translation: tix for Mkh., Miami, Alabama, or PARTY. 9:00. FRIIlAY NIGHT,  I detest ducks. Wlw. then, mL;stllll· s4hjcned to tlw til~ny whimpc..•rinw• to ;L tinv dul-kling nanll'c.l I lon;lkll Bl'l'~tusc: it seems, tn\' n•umnt>ttc~ lik~ smelly littlc pa~uin~t·s for their sur­n,gatl· fathc..·r1u~tld. In my opin1un. tlu.· little thin~-t !-~houiJ hl· ruaswd nvt.·r ,111 opcn fire anti put on ,t hun -.t ""~kllonald"" s:rndwirh. Swor Rr·.l'lllli.ICANS: 1-.XTRr·.~li·.I.Y IM­HTANT M1·.1·.TING Wi·.llNi·.SilAY. Sd'T. 24 IN l.AFORTliN1·. BALI.·  
C11r. Pric:cd from S7.91 ;t J;ty nnd "iCVt:"n c:cnts a rnilc. Phone..· 1'5,--2,23 lor reservations.  Wanted  Need GA tkkets for Mic.:higan game. Caii1HO.  USC. Call tim after 7 p.m. at 312/364· 5619.  MORRISSi·.Y HALL BASI·.MI,NT.) Fm: Soc.:ial Secretary for Public Rc1ations, Scc:tion 2·C, Murrisscv  ROOM AT 6:10 I'M. CO~II-. AT 6:1 ~ ANil M1·.1,T JOHN 1fll.r·H. Hr·.PLTBI.ICAN CANillllATI, FOR  
For R<·nt: U11IY llucklin!( Rent·a·C:tr Fri-noon · Monday-noon .29.9C, w/ I ~0 Free Mile• Phone 2~5·2323 for rcscrv;ations '"2 room apt. S~o.oo month. Ncar. 233·1329"" Spacious 2 bdrm Apt. Furnished MUST RI,NTCall Anytime 232-0904  lli,SPr·.RATJJ.Y Nhl·.ll MICHIGAN TIX CALL BOB 1606 STUll STABLI, wants full corral for Mich. weekend. Need 2·9 GA tix. Call Tom or.J.Il. at 12411. INSTANT CASH PAil> FOR CLASS RINGS. Men"s S3'i · Sll'i and up. l'rce house ralls. 255·2402.  Who is the United Way? It is those people who not only c:arc about the Wl·lfarc of their neighbors, but takc affirmntive action as proof of their sint'erity. Help show that we:, the 'otudents of Notre I>a me can:! Con­tribute to the UNIT!·. I> WAY STUili·.NT CAMPAIGN!  2 c;A MICH TIX 1!!2·1734 AFTI,R 6 I'M lli·.SPI·.RATIJ.Y NhhD 2 MICHl· GAN STATh TICKI,TS, ga or stu· dent. Call 288·2935. Very urgent request. Nt-.t..!> MICHIGAN TIX~ s'fui)hr\JT OR GA WII.I. PAY BIG US. CALL MICHAI'L AT 233·59H.  Chris Would you hdicve I w;1s thinking the same:: 'mush'? So, numc yoLir pk·asurl". It c..·un he tennis or dinner or an aft:tiron a moonlit beach. Set' you soon. Dave .~ MARK I.. .. GI·.T Bt·.'l,'t·.R SOON... ~:~~!!! SOCCI,R TI,AM Ni·.I,DS  hd lllSTRICT CON<;RI·.SS. AT· 1·NilANCI·. IS CKUCIAI.!!! Come wish the RA of BAI >IN"S I':·.NTHOlJS1·. 11 H:tpp~ Birthl!.ry . It"s Wl·ll worth the climb I IAI'I'Y BIRTHDAY MAHY S  


~-­
-Sports 

Friday ,September 19, 1980 -page 24 
-Do humility, football mix? 
There's something special about the 1980 Fighting Irish football team. No, there's a great deal about the squad that may be called "unique." 
A confirmed skeptic when hearing claims of "This is the closest team I've ever played on," or "This is the greatest bunch of guys I've ever coached," or "We get along great, there's a definite bond within the squad."-I mean, everybody says that, every year, right? 
Well, this year you can believe it. 
I)an Devine's charges and coaches not only have unique respect for each other, they care for each other and have humility. 
Humility? 

Big-time athletes with humility? 
Sometimes unbelieveable, but nevertheless, it's true. 
With athletes literally beating on my door, or hounding me to death about coverage, features, several football players are reluctant to be in­terviewed, or at least discuss their own accom­plishments. 
Wednesday, Phil Carter-the heir apparent to all-American Vagas Ferguson and obviously a now-sought-after-celebrity-asked in hi~incere 
Beth 

Huffman 


manner that his feature story be dropped. He simply felt he'd had enough coverage. 
What? 

Deny one's self ink? 
How un-American. No, how Phil Carter-like. How like the 1980 Irish. 
What about Mike Courey? The man now number-one in Notre Dame hearts as the starting quarterback. That's right a quarterback, the position that molds stars-on the field, in the 
broadcasting  booth  and  in  television  com­ 
mericals.  (Don  Meredith,  Joe  Namath,  Fran  
Tarkenton etc...)  

Well, Courey doesn't take the credit for last week's aerial performance against Purdue. He gives laud to his line, those unsung heroes in the 
(contin11ed on page. 22) 

Senior Tom DeSiato has the tough task of filling in for an 
.DeSiato 's dream becomes reality
injured Steve. Cichy to_morro"!-' 
Defense! 
Irish outclassed in St. Louis 
ST. LOUIS-After wading through all the speculation and anxiety that began to grow once last Friday's routine 5-0 whitewash of DePa.ul came to a-merciful conclusion, it seemed reason­able to believe the arrival of the Notre Dame soccer tearr. for their contest with the legendary St. Louis Universitv Billikens would be much like that of an NBA ro~kie paying his first visit to the Boston Garden or perhaps a trembling right­hander making his first appearance on the mound in Yankee Stadium. 
This was St. Louis. after all, and Billiken soccer teams have been fielding All-Americans and winning N.C.A.A. championships-ten, to be precise -for the past twenty years. This was the place where young American boys grew up to become Olympians and World Cup performers. 
!wen the blurb in the early edition of Sunday's St. Lottlr Post-T>ispatch previewing the afternoon contest reminded interested readers ofthe relative disparities between the hometown wonderfoots and the guys from up north who'd probably be long on aggressiveness, but terribly short on ball skills. 
However. there were no championship banners draped abvut the shoddy little cow pasture called Francis Field, when the Irish arrived to meet the Billikens on the field they borrow from Washington University. The St. Louis players didn't even bear the least resemblance to a band of hulking allstars from a roll call at a Ut.ited Nations-N.A.S.L. convention. They were all normal-sized American boys, each and everyone a graduate of the St. Louis school systems, who happen to put their pants on one leg at a time, just like the rest of us. 
'There was -one difference, though, between the two squads that Rich Hunter and any amount of effort he and his players could muster did not have the capacity to control. _ 
Given the determination and time the Irish have put into their program these past three years, the reality of their situation is painfully apparent: to become truly competitive on the Division I level, something significant in the way of University assistance is required. 
The soccer budget for 1979 was a meage. 

against Michzgan. DeStato wtll have a tough match-up on his by Kel~y S11llil'a" 
Women's Sports Edtfor

hands as he tries to defend the speedy Anthony Carter at end 
After just three football prac­
for the Michigan Wolverines. 
tices at tiny Heidleberg College
Joining strong saftey DeSiato in 
in Ohio, Tom DeSiato knew
the secondary will be Tom 
what he wanted, or more im­
Gibbons and Dave Duerson. 
portantly, what he didn't want. 

Gary 
Grassey 
$16,000, with a travel allotment of$5600 ($3000 of which was the salarv Rich Hunter has never collected). A concerted effort has been made in soccer to produce revenue and the team does pull in more money than any other minor men's sport. 
The  rest  of the  team's  support  comes  from  
Hunter's  own  pocket an d  a  few  outside  con­ 
tributors.  

"Ifthey force us to play in Division I (due to the status of basketball and football grants)," Hunter says, "The University has a moral obligation to help us. If they provide for one spotJ, then it's their responsibilty to provide for the others." 
In the works right now is the decision last spring to give the Monogram Club and its president, Harvey Foster, the task of raising a special scholarship fund to benefit minor sports. Nobody is quite sure when any dollars will be seen, but it seems soccer is a sport worthy of merit. 
The growth of the game at the youth and high school levels continues along on its well-docu­mented astronomical pace, while Hunter and his Irish have managed to build from scratch, sans last Sunday's nightmare, a team capable ofstaying irt a contest with anybody on their schedule. Kevin Lovejoy, Sami Kahale, Mark Luetkehans, Steve Berry, and some of the others already have the skills to play for a St. Louis or an Indiana. 
Injured halfback Bill Murphy spent the better part of his summer back home in St. Louis stride­for-stride in town leagues playing ball with Billiken All-Americans and he' 11 tell you, "We don't have to be afraid of any of those guys." 
What Notre Dame could do with three, four, maybe five scholarships to fill some gaps in their lineup, however, is create a national.power, not just a a competitor. And right now, the soccer 
(continued on page 22) 
"It didn't hit me until I started practicing," remembers the senior strong safety, "but I suddenly realized this wasn't what I wanted. I always had a dream of coming to N otr~: I )ame, so I decided I'd bettergive my dream a chance or I'd regret 
it.'' 
I )eSiato waisted no rime con­verting that dream into reality. The Miami, Fla., native left the Midwest and headed home to start earning his college tuition. One year and one acceptance letter later, DeSiato was officially a student at Notre Dame University, but his dream was far from complete. 
"My decision to come here wasn't based on academics," re­lated Tom, "and some people think that means I didn't come here to study. All I'm saying is that I could have gotten an education at a lot of different schools-I wanted to play foot­ball here," he says with con­viction. 
The former Columbus High captain (alma mater of ex-Irish players Lou Pagley and Mike Whittington) inchedcloser to his gridiron goals when he "walked­on': to the Irish roster. DeSiato possessed no illusions about the kind of role he would be as­signed. 
"You can't expect too much as a walk-on. You have to under­stand that you're not a big name but just a body on the field. It's up to you to go out and prove yourself everyday." 
"I had a practical approach to the whole thing," DeSiato con­tinues, "I came up here with a dream, but I knew I wasn't going to start on top. Rather than get discouraged, I just realized that I had to accept the role as a prep for the time being." 
In doing so, the gutsy back not only helped his teammates pre­pare for the opposition, but gained valuable experience him­self, and impressed Dan Devine's staff with his unstoppable dedication. His performance was rewarded last season, as he par­ticpated in eight games and started for an injured Steve Cichy in the season finale against Miami as he will do again tomorrow versus the Wolverines ot Michigan. 
Credited with seven tackles and two broken up passes last year, DeSiato achieved his ul­timate goal when he was given a full scholarship for his remaining three semesters. 
Adding to his growing list of accomplishments, the Grace re­sident merited the Hering A ward last spring as the outstanding defensives back during spring drins. These statistics are some­what remarkable in light of ')eSiato'sdiminutive 5-10 frame, but come as no surprise to his mentors. 
"Tommy's probably one ofthe best players on the team," offers Irish secondary coach Jim Johnson. "Regardless of his size, what he contributes to this team can't be replaced. We've got a lot of confidence in him. I never think of him as being on the second team." 
With Cichy again disabled, Johnson will call on the reliable numLer 29 tomorrow to cover Michigan's speedy split end Anthony Carter. 
''I'm really not nervous about starting, just excited and happy to get the chance to play," DeSiato modestly reveals. Wreaking with confidence about the clash with theWolverines, it is clear I )eSiato is a firm believer in the 1980 edition of Irish football. 
"We surprised a lot of people 

in the Purdue game," he ex­
plained. "Sure, the kind of team 
we have this year can't just step 
out on the field and win like, say, 
the 1977 team. We don't have 
the individual talent they did, but 
we're a lot closer than that. 

When we pull together, we're 
just as talented and every bit as 

good as any national champion­
ship squad." 
The psychology major echoes 
the positive feelings expressed 
by many of his teamates con­
cerning the sense of unity this 
season. "It's going to take a lot of 
(continued on page 22) 










