... Bookstore-Page 8 

VOL. XIV, NO. 128 MONDAY, APRIL 28, 1980
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Vance resigns position ·over Iranian conflict 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance is resigning in the wake of his disagreement with President Carter over the attempt to rescue American hostages in Iran, The Associated Press learned last night. 
Vance's departure, considered imminent, is certain to add to _Carter's problems following the collapse of the mission in a remote desert in Iran last week. 
'They had a good relationship, but both the president and the secretary conclude 1 it was impossible for him to function as secretary of state," a senior administration official, who refused to be identified, said. 
Details of the resignation were not disclosed, but it was 
confirmed by sources both inside the administration and the 
Congress. 
Sen. George McGovern, D-S. Dak., declared that "I deeply 
regret the resignation of Secretary Vance ....it is clearly a loss for 
the cause of common sense.'' 
Vance was the only member of the National Security Council who opposed the operation, the official said. But afterward, he supported the administration in explaining the operation to foreign governments. 
Vance's disagreement over the military venture was only one of a series of setbacks for the soft-spoken former Wall Street lawyer. whose approach to foreign policy was <?De of conciliation, rather than confrontation. 
Again and again, he ended up on the short end of power struggles with Zbigniew Brzezinski, the determined anti-So"iet national security adviser who played a prominent role in drawing the United States away from detente with the Russians. 
There was no immediate indication of who would take Vance's place. He had said he would be leaving at the end of the tour-year presidential term, even if Carter is re-elected, and Warren M. Christopher, the deputy~ecretary of state, has been considered a leading prospect to succeed him. 
A theory has persisted from the start that Brzezinski, like Kissi '1ger, would like to ffiflve from the national security adviser's job to secretary of state. But Last month, Brzezinski told-a women's Democratic group that his choice for a new secretary was Christopher, a slight Los Angeles lawyer who served in the Justice Department during the Johnson administration. 
Christopher recently has taken on a number of travel missions that normally would have been Vance's. including efforts to persuade European leaders to support Carter's economic by john M. Higgins over the opposing team's goal Hartnett, ,..1,,.. w<Js uncon­sanctions against Iran and agains.t the Soviet Union for the · line. scious for six minutes said he Sovter's mtervention in Afghanistan. • A Notre Dam€ student was On Saturday, approximately did not remc:u.uer what hap­
Vance, 63, is a veteran of the Dem_ocratic foreign policy irtjured during an An Jostal 200 or 300 people from the pened. "(At the ho~ital) establi~hment whose international views underwent a major shift "earthball" game on Stepan North and South quads lined people k<"R£ asking me 'What during the Vietnam war. A former deputy defense secretary, he Field Saturday. Witnesses up on opposite goal lines. happened?' " hP said. "I just became a quiet advocate ofconciliation and a low-keyed approach said that Robert Hartnett, a According to witnesses, at the kept saying. 'T ion' t know, I ro world rroblems. . freshman from Flanner Hall, referee's signal Hartnett ran don't know.· 
One CJl his principal interests, a transition to black rule 1!1 ran into the/ 6-foot diameter towards the ball with the rest The game resumed soon Rhodesia. was accomplished largely through the offices of the "earthball" and was "tram­of the North Quad team. after the ambulanc·e drove a­British government. But in arms control and human rights, Vance pled'' by the crowd after he fell Reaching the ball ahead of way. "We changed the rules c;aw once-favored r:arcer policies rake a back seat to growing to the ground. The student his teammates, he bounced off after the accident,' ' Hogan confrontation with the Soviet Union. was transpond! to Saint J o­rhe ball and fell to the ground. said. "Instead of placing the 
While Brzezinski, Defense Secretary Harold Brown and· other _seph' s Hosf'ital wh,re he ·was ·'We saw him go down and ball in the middle with the key advisers to Caner were prominent in the aftermath of the listed in satisfactory condi-tried to stop,'' said one player players on the goal lines, we rescue attempt. there was no sign of Vance, even though he tion. who was at the front of the started with everyone standing quietly worked pre-dawn pours at the State Department directing Earthball is pl;Iyed on a North Quad pack. "But the around the ball, ...holding it up notification to foreign governments and consultations with key football field with anywhere guys in the back couldn't see in the air rather than rushing members of Congress. from 20 to · st>veral hundred him and kept pushing for­at ir. We had no problems 
In dealing with foreign governments, Vance seems to enjoy a players on each team. The ward.'' · after that," he added. 
good repurarion. His avoidance of bombast was appreciated in players line up on either goal However, there were still 
foreign capitols. From the stan, he never attracted the attennon line and the inflated ball is people falling down. · "But
'Nothing like this has 
of his celebratecl predecessor. Henry H. Kissinger, who had a gift placed in the center of the whenever that happened tht 
for publicitv. Vance did not seem to mind and even brushed off field. The players then run to students stopped the game 
frequent reports of differences with Brzezinski who is in more of the ball, bat it into the air, and happe1.1ed. It was just themselves,'' Hogan said. 
the Kissinger mold. try to mqve it down the field ''The players really got it 
together after the accident."
afreak accident.' 
Why wasn't the game
Seek asylum in Cuba stopped? "]ohn Calloway (An 
A~' soon as the referees saw Tostal Chairman) and I decided 
Hannett go down, they stop­to continue,'' Hogan said.

Guerrillas end embassy siege 
ped the game. "He was "The rules were changed and 
knocked unconscious and we j~dged that it was safe 
bleeding pretty badly,'' said now.
BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) -guerrillas left the embassy with Southern Florida where he was referee Bill Hogan, "but. he "We've never had any prob­Guerrillas ended their 61-day their hostages in two Red met by his wife, Nancy, other 
was still breathing." An lems like this before,'' said
occupation of the Dominican ~ross buses for the Bogota members of his family and ambulance was to thecalled Chris Digan, who has refereed Republic Embassy yesterday, atrport. government officials. Secretary 
scene and Hartnett was trans­several earthball games overflymg aboard a Cuban jetliner The others, including of State Cyrus R. Vance sent a ported to the ho:.pital where he the last few years. ''Nothing
to Havana where they were Asencio and the papal nuncio, message praising the diplo­was treated for a concussion It
like this has ever happened.
granted political asylum. All 16 were flown to Havana along mat's courage and said he was and facial lacerations. was just a freak incident.'' 
of their diplomatic hostages, with the guerrilla band, then ''proud of the manner you have ''It was wild,'' one witness 
"On the other hand," he
including U.S. Ambassador set free, according to reports conducted yourself through the said. "600 people came to­reflected, "If I had knownDiego Asencio, were freed. from Havana and Washington. long siege.' ' gether and then BOOM! this North Quad would get beaten,The ambassadors from Vene­Shortly after the siege began. A State Department spokes­kid gets trampled." "We I would've told them to stop."
zuela, the Dominican Republic, Cuban President Fidel Castro man said the 48-year-old thought we could control it,'' In jubihttion over the victory,Israel and Egypt were released offered the guerrillas asylum. Asencio, 20 pounds lighter and Hogan said. "It was all over in one South Quad resident saidjust before the Soviet-built From Havana, Asencio was wearing a two-month growth of 15 seconds. It was just a freak enthusiastically, ''They all gotIlyushin jet took off at 8:20 flown on a charter plane to 
[continued on page 3] accident.'' trampled.''
a.m., about 11/z hours after the Homestead Air Force Base in 


News in brief 
Monday, April 28, 1980 -page 2 
Anderson headquarters close, 
... Denver 

preparefor Independent bid 
•[continued from page 3] We need to take care of each_ Jerry Loaders (Denver) and 
other, not just worry about God (George Burns), in the INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Indiana campaig_n headquarters for 
your life and realize that you ourselves, he commented. movie Oh God!, Landers says, Republican John B. Anderson are. closm~ their doors ~o 
are not alone, he noted. All "The world is not working," "why don'tJou make the world signal a new beginning. The pursuit of an mdependent. b1d 
people are the same regardless but we are the ones who make work?" an God replies, "I for the presidency. "Because of the state of the campa1gn, 
of race, creed, or sex, and each that choice, intimated Denver. gave you each other to make it we've had pull-backs in our (Indiana) operation. Head­
deserves to go to bed each night In a conversation between work.' • quarters around the state are bemg shut down as ofFrid~y.:· 
without the gnawing feeling of said Anderson worker Stu Wachs after the veteran Illmo1s 
hunger, Denver said. congressman announced his decision Thursday to run for 
"Now is a poor time to talk 
75yearsold
president as an independent. 

about helping others when so State coordinator Don Redfern said Thursday that the 
many are losmg jobs, but in a Indiana Anderson for President committee was disbandin~, 
coutry where $13 million was but that a group to push Anderson's independent bid m 
spent on a Presidential cam­
Ftoenner'snno~erdies
Indiana might be "formed in the near future." 

paigne in two months by a candidate who dropped out, how many hungry could have Mrs. William F. Roemer, 75, Colorado. 
been fed with that same 
formerly of 422 East Angela She was a lifelong member amount?" cried Denver. In a 
Hunt brothersgiven $BOOM 
Boulevard, died Thursday in of St. Joseph's Church and the 
work where billions are spent 
Cardinal Nursing Home where Alter Society, a charter mem­
on numclear and military arms, 

she resided for one year. ber of the Ladies of Notre 
children are starving, he said.
despite credit restraints 

Mrs. Roemer had been a Dame, and a member of the teacher at St. Joseph's Grade 1927 class of St. Mary's School from 1957 to 1970. College. Mrs. Roemer wasWASHINGTON (AP) -The chairman of the Federal Reserve She was the wife of the late waked Friday at McGann'sBoard, Paul A. Volcker, helped arrange up to $800 million in 
Prof Peli 

William F. Roemer, Sr., a Funeral Home. The Mass ofcredit for the billionaire hunt brothers of Texas to help them professor of philosophy at the the Resurrection was celebrat­pay their_ silver spec~lating debts, it was leari_J.ed lasl wc;ek. 
University of Notre Dame. Mr. ed at St. Joseph's Church atMeanwhile the chairman of the House Banking Co;nmlttl'"t Roemer died in 1971. Hill and LaSalle in South Bend
lectures

accused th~ board of appearin~ to violate i_ts own credit She is survived by her five on Saturday. Fr. Donaldrestraint directives through its mvolvement m the transac­sons and daughter: William of McNeill, C.S.C., of Notretion. Rep. Henry Reuss, D-Wis., also said he planned to hold Tucson, Arizona; Joseph ofSan Dame was the celebrant. She is hearings on the development. A government s<_>urce, who 
tonight 

Jose, California; and Thomas, buried at Cedar Grovedid not want to be identified, said Volcker gave h1s approval James, Charles and Mary Cemetary.
to the line of credit from private banks in late March because 
Professor Pinchas Peli, a 

Roemer Kusbach, all of Southof concern that the financial problems ofNelson Bunker Hunt 
member of the theology faculty 
Bend.

and William Herbert Hunt placed some brokerage houses 
at the University of Notre 

She is also survived by herand banks in potential jeopardy. Volcker's approval 
Dame, will give the second Liss 

five daughters-in-law, twenty­apparently was deemed necessary because the board ~ad 
Lecture in J udaica tonight at 8 

seven grandchildren, three
announced rigid restraintes on credit sought for speculative 
p.m. in the Memorial Library 

great-grandchildren, her two purposes two weeks earlier, on March 14. The credit 
Auditorium. The program is 

sisters, Sr. Cecile Marie,
restraints are an integral part of the government's 
open to the public without 

C.S.C., St. Mary's College,anti-inflation program. 
charge. 

Norre Dame, Indiana, and Sr. 
The title of his talk will be 

Anne Cecile, C.S.C. of Flint,
"From Myth and Mystery to 

Michigan, and her brother,
Meaning and Memory: Varia­

James Luther, of Denver, Mrs. Roemer
Murdererfiles lawsuit 
tions on the Theme of the Holy. '' The series of lectures sponsored by the Theology Department were endowed last year by Bert Liss, South Bend business leader, and his wife, 

allegingpoorjailconditions. 
FORT WAYNE • Ind. (AP) -A convincted murderer, now Etta. 
serving a life term at the Westville. Correction" Center, has filed a $365,000 civil rights suit against county :·fficials ~or allegedly poor conditions in the Adams County j all The su1t, 
~The_Obserxer._

filed in U. S. District Court by Ernest R1chard Tope; of 
Decatur, Ind., contains 51 allegations about overcr_o:wdmg, 
Night Editor: Teri "Take me lack of recreational facilities and general poor condltlons at 
home M!chielutti the jail. The suit names as def~ndants former Adams C<_>~nty 
Asst. N{ght Rditor: Mike commissioners Robert Workmger and Henry Dentmg; 
Monk, Joel Annable current commissioner Floyd Baker; former Sheriff Harold 
Copy Editor: Jana Ponbelski August, and Deputy Sheriff William BaUJ_nan..Tope wa~ held 
Layout Staff The ever in-I in the Adams County Jail before and dunng h1s 1975 mal for 
visible trio · the murder ofCheryl Ann Felger ofVan Wert, Ohio, the year 
News Editor: Tom Jackman before. 
Sports Layout: John "Fan­tastic" Smith Sports Copy Editor: Michael!' Ortman
Recession attacks several 
Typists: Scoop, Bill Swift,· 
M.B. Budd Marilyn Bo­
derick 
EMT: Mike ."The Doctor" 
Indiana automakers 

By The Associated Press -(AP) As the nationwide recession 
Galvin · deepened, planned layoffs this week in Marion, M~~cie, 

Proofreader: Rick ''The

Evansville and Anderson brought the number of add1t1onal Best" FreedmanIndiana workers idled to 1 ,481. In Muncie, 500 persons were 
.ND Day Editor: Bob

laid off at the Chevrolet pl_ant, and an additional 2~~-~50 Bernoskieworkers will be idled indefimtely at the Warner-Gear division 
SMC Day Editor: Peggy

of Borg Warner Corp. The layoffs at C~evrolet, which. a Schneemanspokesman said were due to the downturn m auto sales, will 
only last two weeks. But there _are already 182 ~er~ons on 
Ad Design: David Wood, indefinite layoff at the plant, wh1ch makes transmiSSions for 
Anne Fink Chevy cars and trucks. 
Photographer: Rudy Perez Guest Appearances: Mark Rust, Sal, ,Margie, John Higgins, Margaret "Handy­

~--ooYOliNEEDARTDrr0-1
man" Kruse, Danny Tarullo 
Greg Hedges, John Macor

CatnP-_u_s--------..4 
I· O'HARE? I 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is 

Iwe go from south bend/mishawaka 1
published Monday through Friday
6:45 ROSARY daily at the GROTTO. 




except during eKam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published 

I 3times daily!II
7 pm, 10 pm FILM "bridge over the river kwai." ENG. 
by the students of Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions 
may be purchased for $20 per year 
AUDITORIUM $1 

IALL FOR ONLY I­
($1 0 per semester) by writing The

11 pm RADIO wsnd, "talk it up," is sponsoring a political 
Observer. P.O. BoK 0, Notre 

discussion, centering around the indiana primary and the 
Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class 

I$2200oneway $39 OOroundtripl
postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana

various presidential candidates. also to be discussed will be 
46556. I I
the problem of voter registration drives on campus. listeners 
The Observer Is a member of the 

are mvired to call in with questions and comments at 6400 or 
Associated Press. All reproduction
742'>. AM 64, WSND. 
rights are reserved. 

I UNITED LIMO INC 255-3068 I 
'--------------------------~ 
The Obseflir Monday, April28, 1980 -page 3 
N4v ~uilding planned 
WNDU accepts bids for building 
by Kelli Flint Senior StaffReporter 

At least fifteen organizations have expressed an mterest in occupying the current WNDU 
building,  according  to  Leo  
Corbaci,  Dean  of  Admini­ 
stration.  
WNDU  is  awaiting  finali­ 
zation  of  plans  for  a  new  

facility, which will be located on Door Road. The dates for the groundbreaking and completion of the building are uncertain at this time. 
However, Corbaci estimated that the new facility should be completed within the next 18 months. "There has been much interest expressed the building,'' Corbaci said. ''There have been no serious discussions yet as to who will occupy it." 
Corbaci did not release the names of the organizations that have expressed interest in the WNDU building. The Observer has learned of three of these organizations. 
Educational Technology Services has expressed written interest in the building, according to Andrew Zand, coordinator of Educational facilities would enable ETS to expand their ·current services. "We now have only two or three areas for individual viewing of tapes,'' Zand said. ''this causes problems because of the number of students that use our facilities. We've designed a plan that would add three individual viewing areas, and also allow for two large group areas.'' 
Zand said that• he is optimistic about his chances for obtaining the WNDU building for ETS. "Since the WNDU building is designed for media, I would like to think that our 
Services (ETS). "We have even designed floor plans for the building," Zand said. "We feel that a central location would make ETS more acces­sible for students.'' 
Zand noted other advantages associated with the new location. ''Ifwe were located in the WNDU building, we would be able to cut the use of vehicles for delivering film and equipment, he said. "We would be close to many buildings that make use of our facilities." 
Zand added that the WNDU 
' ' .Guerrillas 
[continued from page 1] 

Uno" was reported to have beard, would rest at the air said in Havana that the guerril­base until Tuesday when a las planned to stay "indefinite­White House jet will take him ly'' in Cuba even though he to Washington to report to said he had tickets to travel President Carter. from Havana to Madrid and 
The spokesman said Asencio then on to Vienna. The Cuban was in excellent spirits and foreign minister, the president "none the worse for wear" of the Cuban Communist Party physically. and the Minister of the Interior 
The leader of the guerrillas, met the guerrillas at the. air-. known as ''Commandante port. 
chances of getting if are pretty good." 
A committee of students met with University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh recently to discuss a proposal recom­mending that the WNDU building be used as a Social Concerns Center, according to committee member Will O'Brien. "The two main points of our l?roposal were that the University should have a center for Social Concerns, and that 

the WNDU building would After running Saturday's 3 mtle run on crutches, this serve that purpose," O'Brien student is obviously not concerned about his poor finish. 
[photo by Rudy Perez] 
[continued on page 4] 

Denveroffers solution to starvation problem 
by Marty Carrigan 

"It really is possible to elim­inate hunger on this planet in the next 15-20 years," said John Denver at a ,Saturday press conference before his concert at the ACC. In 45 minutes he presented a very convincing and emotional plea to eliminate hunger. 
''Fifteen to twenty million people starve each year and I want to do something about it,'' emphasized Denver. His talent lies in communicating with people. Many'have written him to tell him that his songs express feelings and emotions that they could never put into words. 
As a member of the Presi­dent's commission on Worl Hunger, Denver wants to edu­cate and communicate with people to make them aware that there is a problem. Fifteen to twenty million people starve to death each year, and it "is a 
We'll give you hair you can count on. 
Wherever you are, whatever the weather, your hair can look beautiful. The secret lies in the skilled hands of our styling experts and Redken's new Day Into Night* permanent wave. It actually prevents "moisture droop." For hair you can count on, call us now. 
Moisture Controlling Permanent W;: ;e • Patent Pending 
The HAIR DESIGNERS 
121 S. St.louis South Bend mon-fti 
10-6 234-4343 sat 10-2 
.

worthwhtle goal to try and eliminate hunger," he added. Denver offered a simple and basic solution for the average individual. Consciously look at 
[continued on page 2] 

ROCCO~i1 
men's and women's hairstyling at comfortable prices 531 N. Michigan 233-4957 
The lntemalionol Alnphilhealre 
Saturday May 3 8:00 C.D. T. 
Excellent tic~ets (main floor) are now_on sal 
forThe Who concert at River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North 
Call277 -4242 for further information 
FLEETWOOD
MAC And Christopher Cross 
Wed. & Thurs. May 14 & 15 
Rosemont Horizon Rosemont, Illinois Tickets on sale at River City Records 
---~--SEGEB________ 
And The Silver Bullet Band 
Friday MaY, 23 
Rosemont Horizon ___!,i~~e_!~<>_!l-~~ at_J!.iv~r_Ci!Y_~e~~rd!...:_ 
JOUIUfEYTh~bys
Saturday May 24 
Notre Dame A.C.C. Tickets on sale at River City Records 
ZZ TOP And Bo•dmaster Saturday May 10 Fort Wayne Coliseum Ticketson sale at_River City Records 
TOll CHAPIK / SOK SEALS JLU11S BABD 
FridayMay2 
_ Vegetable Buddies, South Bend 
' ' 1'.1 _I._: _I .1 .! _1, 
~------­

The Observer Monday , April 28, 1980 -page 4 

In the spin"t ofancient Rome, these students parade their chan·ots through North Quad. [photo by Rudy Perez] 

ATTE~J1"1 0 N All ~(J 
~\,._ 
'5:)~ ,....~~ 
\,;11 
STUDENTS 
LAST DAY 
Measurements 
' 
will be taken 
for 
CAPS and GOWNS TUESDAY 
APRIL29 
9:00-4:30 
at the 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
Don 'tfioraet 
o 

Mother's Day, Sunday, May 11 
__________...:,____ 
Inmatestake several hostages as 'peaceful' negotiations begin 
MICHIGAN CITY, Ind. (AP)­of the Indiana Senate Cor­A food service worker and six rections Committee. guards were taken hostage ''There's no leadership among yesterday by about 35-ap­them. They're very unorganiz­parently unarmed inmates at ed and probably frightened,'' the Indiana State Prison, but Larson told newsmen at the three of the hostages were prison. "Negotiations will con­released and negotiattons start­tinued through the night. We ed in what was called "a expect a setrlement by early peacful mood." morning, noon at the latest. 
Four hostages were still held There is a tone of optimism." by the inmates, according to Larson said the prison take­Dan Rose, LaPorte County over apparenrly was related to sheriff. But he added, ''Every­the stabbing of one 'guard thing is in a peaceful mood. Saturday night. He said the The situation is in hand. I'm guard, who was not identified, optimistic." was stabbed and pushed down 
Another 200 inmates had bar­a flight of stairs. His condition ricaded themselves inside was not known. another section of the prison Larson, a Valparaiso Republi­
but held no hostages, officials can, said the wounded guard said. apparently was "one of the 
"There are around 35 prison­guards the prisoners .have a ers in the NSB (New Security grievance with.'' Building), but onlv.four or five · "Much of this goes back to of them seem to b< Interested in some particular people that the. the whole thing,'· said State prisoners have disagreements
Sen. John R. Larson, chairman 
against," he said. 
Officials ''made a choice to negotiate ... instead of storming and removing the prisoners, 

r--------------------------,
RIVER CITY RECORDS· 1
because they believe the pri­northern lndiQnQ's IQtgest tecotd & tQpe 1 soners are serious,'' Larson added.
selection o.nd concert ticket heo.dquo.rters There were ·no reports of injuries and the inmates were not believed armed, said Wil­liam Watt, executive· assistant 
Cfl 00 QnyteguiQI Qlbum 01 tQpe 
'II • putchQse with this coupon. 
to Gov. Otis R. Bown.Qf f limit one pet petaon npl..a ma.ll 30,19&0 
Bill Warrick of South Bend 
television station WSBT, one of 

120,000albums &tap•aln stock the newsmen inside, said the 
t Hug• cut-out Qnd speciQIImpott selection Iopen !Oto10, inmates sought better medical 
1

7 care, individual review of the
•ND-smc checks Qccepted up to $20.00 days 1 
cases of prisoners in the secur­
~ ov•t putchQse Qmount op•n !Oto 10 277-4242 I ity lockup and better news ZOU.S.3!NoQb • 3m!luno£thof~.u., • nexttoAI'u==.,~k:,~ coverage of the prison. They also wanted amnesty for all inmates participating in the 

[continued from page 3) said. 
According to committee member Mary McCarthy, the committee is oftimistic about their chances o obtaining the WNDU building. "We feel that the development of a Social Concerns center is a priority and should be looked on as such,'' McCarthy said. ''As a Catholic institution, we have a commitment to volunteer and other service programs. A Social Concerns Center would be an expression ofour commit­ment to social concerns." 
Radio station WSND has also expressed an intetest in occupying the WNDU building, according to WSND Executive Board member Paul Stauder. 
''There has been a working 
relationship between WNDU and WSND," Stauder said. ''WNDU would be a great 

Off Broadway 1 
TuesdayApril29 7:30pm 
facility for WSND, since we're already a radio station. We 
I" 

looked into expanding our office
Notre Dame A.C.C.
I 

space and possibly adding 
another studio prior to WNDU's 
announcement that they would 
Tickets: $8.50 and 57.50 on sale now 
\ at the ACC Box Office and all usual 
be ,vacating their current ~ AC~ Ticket Outlets facility. " 
Stauder said that he is --------------uncertain of WSND's chances of obtaining the WNDU 
incident. 
Warrick said the inmates told him the safety of the remaining hostages depended on full compliance With their demands. ' About 100 state troopers stood guard in riot gear. County and city police were also at the prison. "We do have more state police being called in for backup," said Sgt. Larry Dem­binski, public information offi­cer at the state police post in 
nearby Lowell. 
There was some confusion 
earlier whether six or seven 
hostages had been taken origin­
ally. 
Wart and state/olice said that after one guar was released when he complained of hyper­ventilation, there were five guards and a food service worker being held in the secur­ity area of the "C" cell block. But Maj. 0. Warren Jackson said only four guards and the food service worker were held. 
No names were released. There are I ,600 inmates at the prison in this city of 39,000 residents on Lake Michigan . It is Indiana'sonly maximum security prison, although a federal maximum security in­stallation is located at Terre Haute. The Michigan City facility has a long history of problems. The most recent occurred in March 1979 when inmates held three guards hostage in a secluded unit before releasing them unharmed when prison authorities agreed to discuss their grievances. The incident followed a four-day hunger strike by 27 inmates. 
... WNDU 
building. ''Ifwe were given the building, there would be fewer 
changes involved with our moving in," Stauder said. ''We could easily transmit from the WNDU building, and our relationship with WNDU would· ease the transition.'' 
• • • Title 
[continued from page BJ 
baskets apiece, but still had some problems hitting the tar­get as they missed 10 and 22 shots respectively. Total Class shot a d1smal 15-63 from the field overall. 
In Friday's semi-final action, B.] .'s Blowoffs squeaked past One Varsity Player and Four Girls Who Couldn't Make the Team 23-21, in overtime. Matvey again led the way for the Blowoffs with nine baskets, while Sue Kunkel paced the losers with eight points. 
Total Class reached the fi. nals with an easy 21-12 win over Hot Stuff. Luepke paced Total Class with eight baskets, Lally added seven, and Missi Conboy lead Hot Stuff with six baskets and eight rebounds. 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Edztor·tn·Ch1e(. . . .... Paul Mullane\· S,\fC Nt'U'S Editor .... . Mary Leavitr Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Edztor.. Mark Rusr Spurts Editor .. . Beth Huffman 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students ofthe Features Edrtor. ...... Kate Farrell
Edztonals Editor. . Mike Onufrak 
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. It does not necessarily Features Editor . Molly Woulfe
Senior Copy Editor . . . . . Lvnne Dak\
reflect the policies of the administration of either instituuon. The news is reponed Photo Editor ........ . ........ John Macor
Neu·s Edztur... . ..... Pam Degnan
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views Neu·s Editor . . ... To.rp..Jackman Rusmess Manager ......... Greg Hedges of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and News Editor . Iohn McGrath Advertising Manager .. Mike Holsinger the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Slv1C E.\·ecutive Edrtur .. Margie Brassil Production Manager .... Ann Monaghan 
...../ 
,( 


----~--~-----~~--~-~-------~­
' 
... 

,. ­


Monday, April 28, 1980 -page 6 ·
The Observer 

· Henry Valenzuela got the Irish Marty Vuomo tossed six hitters, his season record to 4-0.
[continued from page 8] 

off to an explosive start with a pacing Notre Dame to 5-1 and Voelinger snapped a 1-1 dead­the bottom of the seventh three-run homer in the first 3-0 victories respectively over lock with his two run shot in the inning, snapping a 6-~ tie and Illinois Chicago Circle. third inning.
mnmg. SATURDAY

... Irish giving senior reliever Timmy In the first game, Kenahan In the second game, it was Handrich his first win of the Pitching abounded for the struck out three and did not 
Voelinger again driving in what 

year. Irish as both Mike Kenahan and walk a batter as he improved proved to be the winning run 
Molarity 

THE" COURT CONCEI>ES ~T 'fro "REA cav~£NTIOIJS O&J'ECTr;p, BIJT WILL ST"IJ.L 
OFrER YOiJ A CHOICE 


·-THE~' ~1Tf4 f5 GOQJ> PAY, HEDICM. BEAJEFI 73, 
fflJVELEDGE.5 ~ GI.BJLL oP.. PEN:£ S8.VICE J.J~K IN SOME D£50~ TJIJ~[) kJORLJ> NAIION WHERE srAP:IIATIDN 

·~ 

by Michael Molinelli 

by Gary Trudeau 

with a first inning sacrafice fly bringing home 
Vuomo, who set down 12 straight Circle batters .:>ver one stretch, struck out four and walked none. 
SUNDAY 
_ With 24 hits in just 14 innings of play, the host Irish coasted by Bowling Green in the opener, 6-2 and eaked out an 8-7 win in the nightcap. 
Mike Deasey, now 5-1 on the year, went the distance gave up no earned runs, just four hits and struck out seven Falcon batters in the first game. Valenzuela drove in two runs • with a first inning double down the left field line. 
Bryan Smith gave up 13 hits and seven runs but still chalked up a complete_game, as Notre Dame held off a late Falcon surge to improve the season slate to 22-7. Mike Simendin­ger was the hitting star in the nightcap with three hits and three RBI's . 
. . . Streak 

[continued from page 8] 
tough one, but we lost the other two in straight sets. It just wasn't our day." 
With the team loss went almost all hopes of a possible NCAA representation. Notre Dame's best shot for a trip to Athens, Ga., was at number one doubles where Harris and Herb Hopwood had been as hot as the whole team, winning 14 straight before yesterday. 
' 
~nesbury 




,.. . 
----------------~----~--­
The Observer -SportsBoard Monday, April28, 1980 -page 7 
Baseball 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
East 

w L PCT. GB Toronto 8 6 .571 New York 8 8 .500 1 Boston 7 8 .467 1112 Milwaukee 6 8 .429 2 Baltimore 6 10 .375 3 Detroit 6 10 .375 3 Cleveland 5 9 .375 3 
Wast Chicago 11 5 .688 
Oakland 10 7 .588 1V• 
Kansas City 9 7 .563 1 
Texas 9 7 .563 2 
Minnesota 
9 8 .529 2V• 

Seattle 
9 9 .500 3 

California 7 8 .467 :w, 
Yesterday's Games Detroit 8, Boston 5 New York 1, Chicago 0 Cleveland 7, Texas 4 Minnesota 20, Oakland 11 Toronto 8, Milwaukee 2 Kansas City 3, Baltimore 2 Seattle 7, California 3 
Tonight's Gamas 

Seattle (Honeycutt 3-0) at Minnesota I Chicago (Hernandez 0-1) at St. Louis 
(Felton 0-2) (Martinez 1-1). (n) 
· Kansas City (Leonard 0-2) at Tornto (Clancy 0-1), (n) New York (Griffin 0-1) at Baltimore (Palmer 2-1), (n) Boston (Stanley 1-1) at Chicago (Baum­garten 1-0), (n) Oakland (Norris 2-0) at California (Tanana 1-1), (n) Only games schedules 
National League East 
Pittsburgh Chicago St. Louis Montreal  W 9 7 7 6  L · 5 0 8 8  PCT. GB .643 .583 1 467 2V2 . 3 .429 3  
Philadelphia New York  6 5  8 10  .429 .333  4Y2  
Wast  
Cincinnati Houston  13 11  4 5  .765 .688  1112  
Los Angeles Atlanta  11 6  7 . 10  .611 .375  2V• 6Y2  
San Diego San Francisco  6 fi  11 12  .353 .333  7 7V•  

Sunday's Gamas St. Louis 10, Philadelphia 1 Pittsburgh at Chicago, ppd., rain Atlanta 6, Montreal 3 Houston 4, New York 3, 12 innings Los Angeles 3, San Diego 1 Cincinnati 3, San Francisco 1 
Tonight's Gamas 

Atlanta (Matula 2-0) at San Diego(Jones 1-2)., (n) 
Only games scheduled 
Tennis 
Yesterday's Match 

Ohio State 5, Notre Dame 4 Singles No. 1 -Ernie Fernandez (OSU) def. Mark McMahon 6-2, 6-4. No.2-Carlton Harris (NO) def. Reino Jokinen 6-1, 6-3. No.3-Herb Hopwood (NO) del. Larry Quinn 6-2, 6-4. No. 4 -Mark Hoyer (NO) del. Don Petrusky 6-4, 6-2. No. 5 -Lior Rusinek (OSU) def. Tom Hartzell 6-3, 6-3. No. 6-Tom Robison (NO) del. Peter Braun 3-6, 6-3, 7-5. Doubles: No. 1 -Fernandez/Jokinen (OSU) del Harris/Hopwood 6-3, 6-4. No. 2 -Jim Kohls/Jack Kohls (OSU) del. McMahon/Hoyer 6-2, 7-5. No. 3 -Petrusky/Rusinek (OSU) def Jim Falvey/Tim Noonan 2-6, 7-5, 6-4. 
Friday's Match Notre Dame 6, Michigan Stata 2 Singlas No.1-Mark McMahon (NO) del. Steve 
Yorimoto 4-6, 7-6, (5-3). 7-5. No.2-Carlton Harris (NO) del. Matt Sandier S-4, 6-3. No. 3 -Scott King (MSU) def. Harb Hopwood fi-3. 
No. 4 -Waived 
No. 5-Tom Hartzell (NO) def. Diwo DeMare 6-3, 6-3. No. 6 -Tom Robison (N D) del. John LaParl 6-0, 7-5. Doubles: No. 1 -Harris/Hopwood (NO) def. Yorimoto/King 6-3, 6-1. 
No. 2 -McMahon/Mark Hoyer (NO) def. Sandier/Jeff Wickman 3-6, 6-4, 7-6, (5-3). 
No. 3 -DeMare/Mike Klemm (MSU def. Jim Faivey/Tim Noonan 6-7 (3-5), 6:4. 7-6 (5-4) 
Bookstore 
Man's Championship Defending cnumps --21 
Pts Shots Reb Fouls

Hanzlik 
9 22 '14 3

Sudkamp 
6 13 5 1
Short 
1 6 1 1

Muhlenkamp 
0 4 3 1
Lisch 
5 . 15 5 5 
Totals 

Strappamasouon --11  
Holohan  15  3  5  
Knafeic  2  11  6  7  
Courey Fessler Petrykowski  3 2 0  12 9 6  3 5 2  0 3 1  
Totals 11 53 19 16 Woman's Championship BU's Blowoffs --21 


Pts  Shots  Reb  
Matvey  10  17  11  
Aries  6  11  11  
Jones  0  2  4  
Orie  3  3  4  
Hewitt  2  3  2  

Totals  21  36  38  
Lally O'Brien Carey Luepke Jackson  Total Ciass--15 Pts Shots 3 11 2 8 4 14 4 26 2 4  Reb 2 6 1 7 7  
Totals 15 63 23 


Tomorrow­
21 60 
31 11 

I Bookstore award winners 

-
• 


Monday, April28, 1980 -page 8 
SRorts· 

Defending Chumps finish Bookstore as champs ... 
hy Frank LaGrotta Sports !Vn'ter 

Wheti Tom Sudkamp and Company were comtemplating names for their 1980 Bookstore Basketball entry, the logical selection was lkfendmg Chump~. 
Aftt-r all, they were called The Chumps last year and they won rhe ride which made them defending champs this year. And "Chumps" sounds like "Champs.'' 
Well. almost. 

:\nyway. Bill Hanzlik made the prophetic team name stick vesterday when he scored nine points and grabbed 14 rebounds to make the defenders become the repeaters in the finals of Unokstore IX. 
A near capacity crowd of over 2,000 watched the Chumps defeat Strappamasquon and the Combat Wombats, 21-11, behind the ACC under cloudy skies that typically shroud these Bookstore affairs. Yet neither the weather nor the Wombats could stop the Chumps as they rolled to their second consecutive Bookstore crown. 
Ironitally, Hanzlik did not share in the Chumps 1979 victory because of rhe NCAA ruling prohibiting varsity basketball players with eligibility remaining to play in the tournament. But he was on the roster this year and no. one realized ir more than the Wombats. 
"Bill played very well today," commented team captain Sudkamp who had six points in 13 attempts for the winners. "He had a good tournament and I know he wanted to win the thing." 
The game sta~red slowly with Hanzlik hitting five of his first seven shots to gtve the Chumps a 5-2 lead. Pete Holohan hit his !irst shot for the Wombats then missed his next seven attempts hefore dropping a short jumper to cur the Chumps lead to Jour. The winners led 11-7 at halftime before outscoring their opponents 10-4 in the second stanza. 
Rusty Lisch. named the tournament's most valuable player after 
...while Blowoffs win women 's title 
rhe finals, conrnbuted five poults and five rebounds to his team's And those who happened to trying to overcome some fine<hampionship victory. Lisch picked up his third straight Bookstore by Mark Perry get up before noon and make shooting by the Blowoffs (21-36ririe yesterday. He was a member of the 1978 champions, Leo's Sports Editor Emen"tus their way to the court con­for the game) and couldn't getLast, and also played for last year's titlists. 
structed in• the ACC parking inside on Matvey, who blocked
It was also Lisch's fifth straight final-game appearance. Prior to Early Sunday morning most his three rides. he played with Bill Paterno's Average White Team of the students at Notre Dame lot saw B.J. 's Blowoffs win a several shots and intimidated 
hard-fought contest over Total her. opponents on several oc­which lost to Dave Barton's TILCS in the 1976 and '77 finals. were still in bed recovering Class 21 -15. casiOns.
Holohan paced the losers with four points while teammates from a weekend's worth of An Mike Courey and Greg Knafelc had three and two, respectively. Tostal activities. But behind Shari Matvey (six-foot-one) Aries gave the Blowoffs a solid Willie fe<;sler also had two for the Wombats. the ACC ten early risers were center who set numerous re­one-two punch on the front 
Yesterday marked the last apperance of the The Chumps in battling it out for cor honors in cords in her first year on Notre line, as she scored six baskets 
Dame's women's varsity bas­and grabbed 11 rebounds.
Booksrore competition. All five of their players will be leaving the second annua Women's Notre ·Dame ar the end of the s_s;-hool year. In the last three years Bookstore Basketball tourna­ketball team, led the way for Hewitt and fellow guard Joy the team compiled a 19-1 record. ment. the victorious Blowoffs, hittin~ Orie added some solid shooting 
ten baskets and grabbing 11 from the backline, combining rebounds. • to hit five of six shots. Team 
With Total Class leading 2-1 captain Beth "B.)." Jones. early in the g3me, Matvey playing with two sore ankles, connected on three straight was a solid candidate for the
Ohio State snaps netter's streak 
shots as the Blowoffs grabbed ''Ironperson" award, as she a 4-3 advantage. Maggie Lally, sprained her knee early in the Big_ Ten singles champion occupieJ the courts in the ACC. who also played this season for second half but still managed
b:y Mzchael Ortman 

Erme Fernanadez and a variety "As it turned out. I don't think the Irish varsity, hit on two to grab five rebounds for the
Associate Sports Editor 

ofoff the court comments made the ram made that much of a long jumpers to put Total Class Blowoffs. 
Jusc as records wen· made to by the Buckeyes. Fernandez difference," said Irish coach back in the lead, but baskets Cathy Carrie and Carrie be broken so too wl."re streaks continually argued line calls, Tom Fallon. "The number by Kim Kewitt and Beth Aries Luepke ti.ed for scorins honors begun r~, bl." snapped. even after he had been granted three doubles match was a put the Blowoffs in the lead for on Total Class, sconng four 
The Norre Dame tl."nnis ream a linesman in both singles and good.
[conti11ued on page 6] [continued on page 4]
had irs 'itring of 14 consecutive doubles. Total Class had a tough time vi_crortes stopped yesterday fhe_ lnsh held a seemingly atr~rnoo.n as visicins Ohio State .comfortable 4-2 lead going into 
Spring Football 180

r.dl1ed tor a 5-4 wtn 10 a ram the doubles competition, need­delay·ed affair divtded between mg just one win in three rhe Courrnev Tennis Center and matche~ to cake the v1ctory. the LafayTtte South Racquetre A.frer the number three duo had 
Walk-ons : A specitil breed 
Club. · · split sets and the number one 
· T J ratht-r havl." lost and acted and two Irish teams had lost rhc way we did, than win and their first sets, the heavens Often nmes, when fans hear coaches com­adl."d the way rhey did." said a began · ro sprinkle, and the plainins about the NCAA's limit of 95 Tom Je}c·cted captain, Carl ron Har­remainmg sets were forced grants-tn-aid, they can't figure out why that ris of the childi<;h bt·havior of downtown since an RV show number is so restrictive. After all, there are Gibbons
only 22 starters, and a handful of special teams . players. So 95 scholarships should be more thanWin six adequate. by television and radio stations, the walk-ons But many fans aren't aware of just how many practice with the hope of some day getring a 
players are actually needed. Prep teams, whose chance to play. But they are aware that rhe main reponsibility is to learn and master the odds are against them. One of the few chances FRIDAY opposing offenses and defenses and run them these players had to play against teams from 
Irish sweep double-headers 
Playing a grueling six games 

against the first and second squads, play a vital· other schools was lost when Notre Dame was 111 three days, the Notre Dame In the opener, Greg Rodems role on any ream. Injuries also take their toll on forced to drop its junior varsity schedule in each baseball team mowed down collected three hits including a the 95-player limit. · of the last two seasons due to a shortage ofvisiting Huntington, Illinois­three run homer and drove in Both of these factors bring out the impor­players.
Chicago Circle and Bowling six runs, leading the Irish to a tance of walk-on players. Their contributions Every once in a while, though, a walk-onGreen, sweeping all three 15-7 win over Huntington. 
are ev~n more. cruci~l in the spring, when the player earns a chance to play in a varsity game.
double-headers and notching Greg Kot earned the victory team 1s work1ng w1th only three classes of Through a combination of outstanding play inNotre Dame's first 20-win with relief help ~rnrn Steve players. practice and being in the right place at the rightseason since 1959. Whitmeyer. ..,..\~ 1. .ie fire­These unselfish players attend every single time, they get their shot at playing time. LouThe Irish couldn't seem to put man went ~. "l~"~"'! · ,1vmg practice and meeting, learning the complex Pagley, Chuck Male, Tom DeSiato, Joe Unis,solid pitching and explosive up rio hits,·a · "! ~i.:-.:: .;ut tive systerm. and terminology' without many of the Mark Norman and Bob Burger are just some of
hitting on the field at the same while earn•.•b .1S first save of ...
tangible rewards that their scholarship team-• the walk-ons who have seen action m importanttime, but if the arms weren't the season. 
mates receive. Instead of getting their room, games.
stiflin~ opposing hitters, it was In the nightcap, sophomore board and bo.oks paid for, these players have to Players like these provide additional incen­the Insh bats singing, "Turn Dan Szajko brought home be content wtth the satisfaction of knowing that tive for their fellow walk-ons. And theirout t~~ lights, the party's captain Dan Voelinger with a bases loaded single to center in they are making a very real, ifoften overlooked, successes on both the practice and flayingover ... 
contribution to the team's success. fields also give a big boost to all o their 
[continued on page 6]
Her~:'s the weekend rundown: While their teammates are being interviewed teammates. 




