---~--~---c-­
, , , Dance -page 8 

VOL XIV, N0.8! -an inde-~ iident student newspaper servin_g nolre dame and saint mary:s FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1980 

Margie Vermeulen watches the ballet rehearsal at 0 'Laughlin Theater as she awaits her moment on stagt!. The performance wtll be heldFnday andSaturday at 8:00pm 
==S=ee=s=to=ry=o=n=p=a=g=e=B=.[p=h=ot=o=b=y=r;=d]=.========== 
= 

FLOC plans campaign against Campbell's, Libby's 
by Tim Vercellotti StaffReporter 
The Farm Labor Organization Committee (FLOC) met last night to discuss plans for the planned referendum concern­ing a boycott of products manu­factured by Campbell's Soup and Libby's. 
The group, which is campaign­ing for the rights of migrant farm workers in northwestern Ohio, is plannints a campus­wide publicity blitz from now until Feb. 25, the date of the Referendum. The campaign consist of posters in the various campus buildings and pamph­lets to be distributed by FLOC members in the residence halls. 
FLOC believes this publicity is needed to get the 1,013 signa­tures required to bring the issue to a vote by Notre Dame students. These petitions will be available in the dining halls at lunch and dinner late next week. 
The proposed boycott is a means of applying pressure to companies that receive their produce from farms in Ohio. According to Anne Huber, a spokeswoman for FLOC, these canning companies set a certain price that they will pay the farmers for their crops. 
This set amount of money is then used to pay the migrant workers. Unfortunately, the t:.nion that represents the farmworkers has no say in what the annual price will be, and 
continued on p. 10 

WASHINGTON (AP) -President Carter will call for the registration of women for the military draft, White House officials said yesterday. 
The White House scheduled an announcement for today detailing the president's plans for the entire draft ree-istration program. 
The president's proposal, disclosed by officials who asked not to be identified, is a sharp break 
1-with historical precedent. It will be the first time that a president has suggested registering women for the draft. Carter decided to include women in the program despite a warning from House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill that it would not pass the Congress. The president probably will limit re~istration to persons 19 and 20, though full details were not 


FBI claitns strong evidence against N.J. Senator Williams 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The federal case against Sen. Harri­son A. Williams Jr. was descri-~ bed yesterday as among the strongest in the FBI's political bribery investigation which has implicated eight members of Congress. 
As FBI agents interviewed members of the New Jersey Casino Control Commission, which figured in the allegations against Williams, the House of Representatives turned its at­tention to the ethics of the manner in which the FBI con­ducted its 16-month inquiry. 
In advance of the House floor debate, FBI Director William Webster told an Oklahoma City news conference his agency had ''followed the rules of law'' in its undercover operations. He denied any entrapment of mem­bers of Congress. 
Allegations have been made against as many as 20 public officials and 10 businessmen 
after FBI undercover agents, 
posing as wealthy Arabs or 
representatives of Arab inter­
ests, paid nearly $500,000 in 
cash in exchange for promises of political favors and other 
serv1ces. 
Webster said the law allows use of deception when there is evidence of a predisposition to commit a crime. "We follow criminality,'' he said W ednes­day. "We do not target individuals. We do not target institutions.... We have no interest in testing any public officials. · 
Williams, a New Jersey Demo­crat, is reported to have told FBI agents on videotape that Joseph Lordi, chairman of the casino commission, helped him save $3 million for developers of the Ritz hotel-casino project in Atlantic City. Lordi and Williams have denied involve­ment in such a deal. 
In addition, government sour­ces said last weekend that Williams last August had ac­cepted stock in a titanium mine in return for a promise to help obtain government contracts for a venture backed by an Arab 
Age 19-20 
Carter calls for female registration 
made available. 
Carter announced plans last month in his State of the Union message to resume draft registra­tion, citing an increasing military threat from the Soviet Union. 
Although he remained mum on the question of whether he would include women, he has previously taken the position that any such program should include women. 
In recent weeks, Carter's decision has been foreshadow~ by statements from administra­tion officials and the president's wife, Rosalynn, who urged registration of women. 
Currently, there are about 150,000 women in the military, out ofa force of more than 2 milion. However, women still are banned by law from combat. 
sheik. 
_Officially, sources close to the investigation say all eight mem­bers of Congress remain sub­ject to possible grand jury action, although the govern­ment considers its case against Rep. John Murtha, D-Pa., to be the weakest. 
Williams was reported in the Washington Star and the New York Daily News to oe a strong target for federal prosecution. Quoting unnamed Justice De­partment sources, the papers also listed Reps. Michael My­ers, D. Pa., and Richard Kelly, R-Fla. 
The Star said other strong cas~s were being prepared agamst Reps. John Jenrette, D-S.C., and Raymond Lederer, D-Pa. Instead of those two, the Daily News listed Reps. Frank Thompson Jr., D-N.J., and Jo~n Murphy, D-N.Y., as other pnme targets. 
CAP seeks to diversify Arts and Letters program 
by Michael Lewis Executive News Editor 
Citing what they term "bore­

dom and stagnation'' with the 
Notre Dame Arts and Letters 
program, a few AL majors are 
initiating a discussion of ways 
to improve intellectual life at 
the University. 
Terry Keely and Ken Scarbor­

ough, two leaders of the effort, 
said last night that some AL 
majors are "a bit bored" with 
the regular curriculum. These 
students, they assert, could 
benefit from additions to the 
regular curriculum, which 
would be designed to increase 
faculty-student discussion and 
bring the Arts _and Letters 

disciplines together. 
Thomas Jemielity, director of the Committee on Academic Progress (CAP), said yesterday that the CAP has been con­cerned about this problem for some time. 
Jemielity called this "bore­dom" a "fairly widespread phenomenon among serious­minded students.'' When asked about how many students felt frustrated with the Arts and Letters curriculum, Jemielity replied, "More than I would prefer. It's not an uncommon complaint.'' 
Keely and Scarborough said that academic pressures on both students and faculty at­tribute to their sense of frusta­tion. Keely stated that there needs to be a ''change in emphasis" away from the GPA and credit ·hours. 
Scarborough said that, at the freshman and sophomore lev­els, "The only intellectual rela­tionship a student has is be­tween his books and his notes.'' From a professor's standpoint,Jemielity said th<jl an emphasis on research and publications 
takes away from the faculty's time and inclination for free discussion with students. 
Scarborough, a sophomore 

CAP member, said that a 
synthesis of the various liberal 

arts disciplines is needed. 
Keely, a junior and spokesper­son for the group, said, ''Peo-­ple are just frustrated with their classes .. .It seems purposeless after a while." 
Several students met with faculty members last week to discuss ideas to combat their feeling of stagnation. Another meeting is scheduled for Feb. 21 at 7 p.m. in room 104 O'Shaughnessy. All students are invited to discuss the Uni­versity's intellectual life at that meeting. 
At last week's meeting, the group discussed the establish­ment of a new course, a faculty-student lounge, and a scholarly student journal. 
The idea of a student/faculty lounge is not new. Jemielity noted that the college used to sponsor a ''coffee hour'' for students and professors to min­gle and discuss current issues. 
Ideally, the lounge would fur­nish a place where students and faculty could come and go as they pleased, and discuss any­thing. Keely noted that, since all students and faculty could use the lounge, discussions could take an inter-disciplinary approach to issues. 
The course, if initiated, would consist of a small group of students examining an intel­lectual problem of their choice under the direction of a profes­sor. A paper would be pub­lished at the .end of the course as a kind of "mini-disserta­tion.'' 
The journal, if formed; would ideally be another examination of a problem from an inter-dis­ciplinary viewpoint. Students could select a topic, then pro­vide essays, research, poetrv, photography, and other talen'ts to complete the work. 
Keely and Scarborough noted that these ideas are only at the discussion stage, and invited all students to participate. The Feb. 21 meeting is designed both as a "brainstorming ses­sion and as a way to deter­mine student interest. 
Jemielity s.1id that, although the CAP is involved in this discussion, all students should participate. 
"One of the things CAP is supposed to do is to serve as a clearing house for those ideas,'' ­he said. 
-,.,_ 



''-..__ 
.r--------------.-----~~----------------------~---------------------------------------------------------­
News in,brief  __ Friday, February 8, 1980 -page 2  
University scientists search prison rubble for bodies SANTA FE* N.M. (AP)-University scientists searching the rubble of the New Mexico State Penitentiary found bones in the burned out gymnasium yesterday. But officials were uncertain whether the remains were those of about 14 inmates still unaccounted for. Some inmates who survived th~ weekend reign of terror at the maximum-security ~rison sa1d leaders of the revolt stacked and burned bodies 10 the gutted gym. Weather Increasing cloudiness with a 30 percent chance of snow late in the day. High in the mid 20s. Snow likely at night and tomorrow.Low tonight in the upper teens. High tomorrow in the low 20s. ·  At Monday lecture Almon to discuss hydrocarbons by carbons in diagenetic traps. field, according to department . Betsie Boland These traps, which result from head Fr. Michael Murphy . sedimentary rock shifts, form Murphy said that the geology as a result of proper cementa­department at Notre Dame Dr. William R. Almon will tion, porosity generation and remains rather small, with only speak on ''The Im(>act of Dia­petroleum migration. Future about thirty majors. However, genesis on Explorauon Strategy discoveries of oil may depend graduates include the chief and Reservoir Management'' at on defining the location of these geologists of Exxon and Shell a lecture Feb. 11 at 4:15 in deposits. Oil companies. Room 101 of the Earth Sciences This lecture and others spon­Geologists are in increasing Building. Almon, a petrol~~:~m sored by the Earth Sciences demand with the current ener­research manager for Cmes department will touch on a gy problem, and the fact that Service Company, received his number of current issues re­they command the highest Ph.D. from the University of garding petroleum discovery, startin~ salary of all the sci­Missouri and is a tour speaker and will afford interested stu­ences IS a further attraction of for the American Association of dents the opportunity to talk this little-known major on, Petroleum Geologists. personally w1th an e~pert in the campus. Almon's lecture will focus on the prevalent but difficult ques­tion: "Where is the best place ' .TUTORS.NttLJtLJ to drill for hydrocarbons?'' He . The Neishborhood Study Help Program needssays that today, as the search for petroleum intensifies, we ND-SMC student volunteers to tutor grade schoolmay find these essential hydro-t.hildren at the foHowing times: MW 2:45-4:15 _ TT 3:45-S:IS 1hese times include transoortation time which is. provided free. If interested, please callKnights JOHN SAX 232-1265. SUF ClAUS 4-1-4515 or  

 
Friday, February 8 1980 MARDI GRAS, STEPAN CENTER.  
11:15am-1pm CARNATION SALE, valentine carnation sale,  .JOF WITCUt:E:~ 710J  
last day, spons: badin hall, deliveries made on the 14th,  
orders taken in SOUTH DINING HALL.  installs  
11 :45-1pm NAZZ, lunchtime concert with doug stringer, spons: nazz, LAFORTUNE.  Sunday Masses at  
5:15pm MASS AND SUPPER, BULLA SHED, spons: campus ministry.  new officers Sacred Heart Church  
7:30p~ MEETING, "college life" spons: campus crusade for Christ, UBRARY LOUNGE. 8pm BALLET PERFORMANCE, students of debra sedore stahl, smc faculry, O'LAUGHLIN AUD., free of charge.  The Knights of Columbus 5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, c.s.c.formally held its installation of 9:00 a.m. Sunday Rev. John Van Wolvlear, c.s.c.officers in ceremonies held 10:30 Sunday Rev. Marvin O'Connell Wednesday. Installed for the 12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. Willian Toohey, c.s.c. 7:15p.m. Vespers Rev. Marvin 0'Connell1980 term were: Ernie Mayor,  
,. 9-lOpm NAZZ, guitar with mike daley.  grand knight; Pete Cuozzo, deputy grand knight; P.]. Uri­ 
10-10:30pm NAZZ, comedy with pat byrnes. 10:30pm NAZZ, guitar duo: "sometimes two" with c.j. eggbeer and joe statzer.  tis, chancellor; James DeMaio, recorder; Loys B. Juday, finan­---------------------------------------­cial secretary; Kent Schmidt, St. Mary's-N .D. Students -! treasurer; Mike Simonds, advo­cate; Francis Tisak, warden; SUMMER PROGRAMS I  
Saturday, February 9, 1980 all day COLLEGE BOWL, UTILE THEATRE, SMC.  Tim Linehan, inside guard; 1Uune 16-July 15)Charlie Burns, outside guard; Eli J. Shaheen, Rob Patchen in London & Romeand Tom Pepke, trustees; Bob Drovin, membership director; Travel in Ireland, Scotland, England,  
MARDI GRAS, STEPAN CI;:NTER.  Mark Rigotti, lecturer; Ray France~ Germany, Switzerland and ItalyQuintin, program director.  
1:30pm HOCKEY, nd vs minnesota-duluth, A.C.C.  I Courses to1 credit available  
2pm BASKETBALL, st. mary's college vs nazareth college,  1-The Observer_ SLIDES AND DISCUSSION ON LASi  
A.A.F.  YEARS PROGRAMNight Editor:Margaret  
7pm FILM, "nishant", UBRARY AUD., spons: india assoc.  Kruse Copy Editor: Kathryn Casey Fot info call Prof. Anthony Black at 4948  
7 & 9pm FILM, "the, fantastic voyage", CARROLL HALL SMC, no charge, spons: biology dept.  Lay_out Staff Mary Kasper, (office) or 272-3726 (home)M1ke Monk, Joel Annable News Editor:Mike Lewis  
8pm BALLET PERFORMANCE, students of debra sedore  Editorial Layout: Ann Gales ---------------------------------------­ 
stahl, smc faculty, O'LAUGHUN AUD., free of charge.  Features Layout:Molly Woulfe  
8pm BASKETBALL, notre dame men vs n. carolina state, A.C.C.  Sports Layout: Brian Beg­lane, Michael Ortman Junior Parents'Typists:Pat Shaugnessy,  
9:30-1am NAZZ, rock n' roll with "crystal", NAZZ.  Carol Shuback, Paula Shea, Kathy Murray, Mike Galv.MI Weekend  
Sunday, February 10, 1980  Reservations for seating arrangements forEMT: Cindy Richers, Liz  
1pm MEETING, nd chess club, all invited, LAFORTUNE BALLROOM.  Huber the President's Dinner, may be made at Proofreader; Dan Ryan ND Day Editor: Patsy Camp­LaFortune in front of student activities office  
1:30pm HOCKEY, nd vs minnesota-duluth, A.C.C.  bell during the following times:Ad Design: Dave Wood, Flo  
2pm MASS, for the friends of the mentally retarded and l'arche, MOREAU SEMINARY.  O'Connell -----------------------------------­Photographer:Tim McKeogh Tuesday Feb. 12 11am-2pm  
2pm FILM, "avargal", UBRARY AUD. • spons: india assoc.  The Observer [USPS • 1211] Is published Monday through Frtdly II· cept during nam 11111 viCitilft perilda. Wednesday Feb. 13 11am-2pm 
7 & 9pm FILM, "the fantastic voyage, CARROLL HALL  The Observer is publlllltd by tilt  
SMC.  students Dl Notre DIIM IMI Saillt Miry's Ctlllgt. SublcriptiiM lilly Ill  
8pm TALENT SHOW, spons: black cultural arts festival,  purdlatd .. $31 per ,.., 1111 ,. Thursday Feb. 14 11am-2pmAmllttrl f1'11111 The Observer. P.o. 1111  
UBRARY AUD.  Q, Nwe b1me, llldlllll 415111. Secllld  
8:15pm CONCERT, judy hancock, organ, sacred heart  clau postage paid, New Dame, I• Tables seat nine (9) people. If no reservations aredilna-4Ci551. made then you will be placed randomly at a table.The Observer Is 1 llllllllllr II till  
church.  Aulcl1tld Pl'lll. ·All ,....111ft Questions -call Jim Veraldi~ 8895 rtgllts 11'1 rtllrvld.  


• 

The Observer Friday, February 8, 1980 -page 3 

Students at yesterday's Government Career Day discuss their futures with a civil servant [photo by Tim McKeoghJ 

In Afghanistan Rebel snipers attack Russian soldiers 
(AP) Rebel snipers have killed earlier promise to allow such demanding a pullout of Soviet some 40 Soviet soldiers in the visitations. troops. streets of a provincial capital in The Red Cross says it has been -Deputy Secretary of State Afghanistan's far north, and told by Afghan authorities that Warren Christopher, who vis­hundreds of Afghan troops they hold only 57 political ited Pakistan last weekend with have deserted their govern­prisoners. But unofficial report National Security Adviser Zbig­ment's cause in the area, put the number at berween sev­niew Brzezinski, said Pakistani sources in the Afghan capital of eral hundred to several thou­President Mohammed Zia Ul­Kabul reported yesterday. sand. hao still has not accepted the 
The report could not be inde­In other developments: U.S. plan for $400 million in pendently confirmed, since Af­Officials of the United States, military and economic aid over ghan authorities have banned West Germany, France, Britain two years, an amount Zia calls travel outside Kabul by West­and Italy were working out "peanuts." The aid is intended ern journalists. But reports details of a meeting sched­to build up the Pakistani armed reaching the capital spoke of uled for Feb. 20 it. Bonn, West forces to deal with any poten­continued small-scale rebel at­Germany, to coordinate their tial threat from the Soviet tacks in the province involved, responses to the Soviet inter­troops in neighboring Afghanis­Takhar, and in three other· vention in Afghanistan. The tan. northern provinces-Baghlan, talks will represent a new ef­-Mohammed Rahim Rafat was Kunduz, and Badakhshan. fort by the Carter adminis­fired as· editor of the Afghan 
The International Red Cross tration to rally Western support government's English-lan­reported yesterday that an ob­for its 'retaliatory measures, in­guage newspaper Kabul New server team it has sent to Ka­cluding the proposed Olympic Times after he· published two bul has received permission boycott. editorials that seemed critical of from the Soviet-backed Af~han -The Soviet news agency Tass, the new Karma! regime. government to visit political in a commentary directed at 
prisoners in Afghan jails. France and West Germany, A Red Cross spokeswoman in said the events in Afghanistan 
mENDOZA'S 

Geneva, Switzerland, said word "Cannot and must nodeopard­
GUITARS, REPAIRS,

of the development was re­ize ... detente in Europe." The ceived only a few hours after leaders of those two countries 
ACCESSORIES 

the IRC complained to report­issued a joint statement earlier 
1 mile north of campus

ers in Geneva that the Afghan this week calling the Soviet in­272-7510 
government of President Babr­tervention "unacceptable" and an Karma! had reneged on an 


Career Day attendance doubles 
by Bndget Herry 
Representatives from approx­
imately thirty Federal and State 
agencies were on hand to 
answer questions and to pro­
vide literature and application 
materials to students yesterday 
at the Placement Bureau's third 
annual Government Career 
Day. Some Departments, how­
ever, expressed confusion 
about the event. • 
''This year's attendance was 
almost double last year's,"said 
Sr. Kathleen Rossman, career 
counselor. "And the 350-400 
students that attended repre­
sented a cross-section of majors 
--not necessarily in Business 
and Engineering." 
Paul J. Reynolds, Placement 
Specialist, explained that the 
Placement Bureau had sent out 
110 letters to Federal and State 
agencies and that thirty agenc­
ies --representing a wide range 
of interests --had responded. 
The Placement Bureau -distrib­
uted to each Department 
Chairperson a packet contain­
ing notices for each faculty 
member in the Department as 
well as other pertinent 'mater­
ial, such as information con­
cerning the PACE test. 
Donald Costello, Chairman of American Studies, said that he had received no information concerning the Government Ca­reer Day. Charles Wilber.· Chairman of Economics, said that he ''had never heard a thing," but explained that "things had been hectic in the Department," and that it was wholly possible that a notice had been received. He added that he wished that he had known about it: "It is exactly the kind of thing we've been wanting to have." 
Konrad Schaum, Chairman Modern Languages, said ti. he supported the program, b that he had not actively enco1· aged his students to alten "We have only thirty 'fir~ majors'," he explained. ·'Wt are so close to our majots •hat we wouldn't need something 1.jke that." 
fhe Chairman of the Govern­mcr.t Department, Perry Ar­nold said that he viewed the Publl<;; Service Careers Day very posiuv.ely. He emphasized, howevtt. that the program's benefit •'".S predominantly in an inforl"lation-providing ca­pacity. He explained the rigid­ity of the gwernment employ­ment systet!l\, citing the re­quired Civil Service Exam and the Merit principle. 
Arnold added that it is so difficult for a student to get information --especiaJty about Government agencies --that "this kind of meeting is invalu­able." 
Arnold said that a surprising number of agencies attended, but that he would like to see more State and local agenc:es -­especially from trr: 'llidwestern area --represented. 
Reynolds explained that it was difficult to interest state and local agencies in a career day at Notre Dame because the stu­dent body is regionally diversi­fied. He said that most state agencies prefer to recruit at state universities. 

The program sponsored in the Fall was career-information or­iented, Reynolds said. "But today we identified each agency and representatives did re­cruit." 
David Fogleman, representing the Naval Avionics Center, said that he meant to interest En­gineer and Science majors in both Summer Employment and post-graduate work. He said 
that he had run out of applica­tions earlier in the day, and was taking names of interested stu­dents for future correspond­ance. 
Both Nora Bader of the Social Security Administration (Great Lakes Program Service Cen­ters) and Ruby Holmes of the Department of Health, Educa­
tion and Welfare Social Security Administration said that they were actively recruiting. Reg­istering for examinations was their first concern, they ex­plained. But they were also promoting summer programs and college work/ study pro­grams. 
A friend of a heavy drinker? 
HELP!! 
JOIN A SUPPORT GROUP 
8pm every Sunday Saint Mary's Student Govt. Offices 


BASEMENT, NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL LEGAL 1\ID & DEFENDER ASSOCIATION ROOM 8·12 283·7795 11a_m· 2pm (IV:· F) othdr\imes by appointment 

WE HANDLr ALL I:INANCIALLY QUALIFIED STUDE::.NTS & STAFF 
0-C Commissioner Elections 

Anyone living off-campus next year ·for 2 consecutive semesters 1980-81 may run for the position of Off-Campus Commissioner. The 
, election rules are the same as those for .SBPISBV elections. Anyone interested in running should leave his/her name. and phone number in 
Shannon Neville's mailbox by 

Monday, February 11.  
Feh. 11 Feb. 14 Feb. 17  Schedule of Deadlines 5:00p.m. Pick up oftirial candidacv petitions i.n Student GO\·ernment offic 40 signatures of Off-Campus studer.ts required. · 5:00p.m-. Return candidacy petitions to Student Government office. !2:01a.m. Campaigning begins  
Feb. 24  12:00 midnight  Campaigning ends  
Feb. 25  Primary election  
Feb. 27  Runoff election  

AtSMC 

Building Increases Security 
by Cece Balt!es 
In an attempt to improve the secunty along the main drive between Saint !\1arv's and Notre Dame. SMC sec.uritv has erected a new building ~hich will serve as humebase for the new Saim Mary's foot patrol, according to Tracy McAuliffe of Public Information. 
Security guards now patrol the Saint Mary's portion of the drive concentraong on the front area of the campus, she added. The security building is lo­cated near the main entrance to Saint Mary's. "This provides the patrolmen with a good view · of Saint Mary's drive and a 

portion of rhe roa.d leading to 
Notre Dame,·· J'vlcAuliffe com­
mentnl. 
The main drive is now 
patrolled regularly in the' even­
ing and earlr morning hours hy 
:-;erurity on foot. · Anthony 
Kovatch·. the director of Saint · Mary's security, ;1dded thar the 
building will be manned from 8 
p.m. throughout the evening. 
He abo said that securitv uses the building as a base, so that, if the building is unoccupied, the security guard is patrolling along the road. 
Saint Marv's is also consider­ing improv~ments in the light­ing along the main drive to provide greater protection for the students, McAuliffe said. 
-·--------·-----................... , ..... .... _ •. • ............ • P~ • ; ....... -•
~ ~­
\ 

-~---~ ~--~---~~-~-­
\ 

The Observer 
JEC unites engineering students 
By Mary Fran Callahan mented, "We're really starting which dealt specifically with the StaffReporter to get moving now.'' Last organization problems such semester, the council sponsor­councils often face. The Coun­Over the past semester, the ed an Engineer's Night at cil also sent letter~ at the Joint Engineering Council has Senior Bar which attracted a beginning of last ,semester to assumed a more active role at large turnout of students. In every student enrolled in engi­attempting to integrate stu­addition to selecting the Engi­neering in an effort to inform dents from all fields of en~i­neering Teacher of the Year, the students ofJEC's objectives neering by sponsoring an In­the council hopes to sponsor and membership opportunities. creased number of social and lectures later this semester and The 28 member council is academic activities. an Engineers' Week. comprised of two representa­
Last night, the JEC sponsor­JEC's objective has always~ tives chosen from each field of ed a, wine and cheese party been to umfy all the Univer­engineering and the engineer­which included music from sity's engineering students ing honor societies. Claiming WRBR and dancing in the (which currently number 1129-­that grad(. point average is not newly opened Fitzpatrick Hall excluding current freshmen) the prime criteria for council of Engineering. The event was from their varied fields. Derde membership, Derde comment-open to all students of engi­called the body a "liaison ed, "We look for a good neering, faculty, and their between engineering students cross-section of students.''' spouses. Dean Maddelena, as well as engineering faculty.'' Though funded last year by 
JEC member who handled pub­She explained that the new sponsonng a movie, the JEC
, licity for the party, called the wave of enthusiasm generated now is in need ofmoney to carry 
, event the "student equivalent by the council can be attributed out its increased activities.
, of the faculty dedication last to the current officers: Ton Derde explained that the Col­
Career Da:y (photo by Tim McKeogh] 

fall." The purpose of the event Hafert, vice-chairman, Mic­lege of Engineerin~ has been
r 
r was to celebrate the opening of helle Abowd, secretary, Bob extremely cooperative by pro­, the freshly dedicated facility. Cogan, treasurer and faculty viding financial support for Though JEC has been in sponsor Dr. Jerry Marley. events this year. She added that existence for years, Laura Der­Hafert recently attended a fundraisers will be undertaken 
r
, de, JEC chairwoman, com-conference at Purdue Univesity in the future. After the effort to transform

, r SMC sophomores 

, the organization into a more 
s 
active body, JEC's major con­
,r 

'to welcome parents
cern now is to safeguard its

, newfoundedenthusiasm. Derde 
acknowledged that a good

r 
number of this year's council by open house and reception, and members are seniors. "We Mary Agnes Carey Sunday mass in the Church of f 
J>I£1AI ~ VAll~ll~l'S 
want continuity now," she Our Lady of Loretto, with 
brunch following at the SMC

r 
[),4'fJ>I~S()~Al 
A champagne reception, cafeteria.

r 
faculty Iadministration panel, Final rehearsals are underway and a dinnerIdance at Century for the sophomore class produc­

~ 
Khomeini 
Center are among the many tion, "If They Could See Us events planned for Saint mary's Now,'' which will be presented "Sophomore Parent Week­at the Little Theatre in Moreau
supports 
end," Friday, Feb. 29 to Sun­Hall, Thursday, Feb. 28, for all day, March 1. ND-SMC students, and Friday, In a newsletter sent to SMC Feb. 29, from 8 to 10 p.m. for



Bani Sadr

BnigbtsnfQTnlumbu.a 
sophomores Wednesday, SPW SMC sophomores and their By The Associated Press-. chairman Nini Stoll explained parents. ND-SMC students will
will hold an 
Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini that students who have not yet be charged $o. 50 general ad­and Iran's ruling Revolutionary made reservations for the week­mission for the Thursday show­Council gave President Abol­end may do so until Thursday, ing but no admission will be

ADMISSION DEGREE­
hassen Bani Sadr additional and may also purchase a ticket charged Friday, Feb. 29. power Thursday 'as Bani Sadr for a date to the dinnerIdance ''Due to the size of the theatre hammered away at the U.S. until Monday, Feb. 18, making and the members of the cast,
Sunday, Feb. 10 2:00pm 
Embassy militants' waning au­all payments to the Student ·there will be a limited number thority and reports persisted Activities office in Le Mans of tickets for the Friday show­that the American hostages Hall. Prices for the weekend ing. Students who have paid 
might be freed soon. are $56 for a student and for their reservations for the Tehran Radio said Bani Sadr parents, $15 for a date to the weekend may rick up tickets in was elevated from acting chair­dinner/ dance, and $30 for the dining hal on a first-come, 
All Catholic men, 18 yearsr or older, 
are eligible for membership 
man to head of the Council, the couples wishing to attend only first-served basis,-Tuesday, nation's supreme law-making the dinnerIdance at Century Feb. 19. No extra tickets will be body, with Khomeini's consent. Center, Saturday, Mar. 1, from allowed," Anita Ramker, pro­
The broadcast said Bani Sadr 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. A photogra­ducer and director, said. attended the session that ap­pher will be at both the cham­"Due to a state basketball pointed him, and that the meet­pagne reception and dinnerI tournament in Angela for the 
mg discussed "important is­dance for informal and formal same weekend, and with 0' sues of the country .'' pictures. After Feb. 18, no Laughlin Auditorium booked Bani Sadr s new appointment reservations for any of the with an ND-SMC production, in effect made him Iran's events throughout the weekend the Little Theatre was the only second most influential leader will be accepted. available facility, although it after Khomeini, the country's Other events planned for the has limited seating," Ann 79-year-old .revlutionary chief weekend include an academic Bourjaily, associate producer and musical director of the 



r-------------------------, program, 
explained. Openrehearsals for the show areI 1 Tuesday, Feb. 19, and Wed-
PINOCCHIO'SI 
1 _ _ .. . _ 1 nesday, Feb. 20, from 7:30 to II PI·.~za_.. Parlor •• 9 p.m., with a dress rehearsal
scheduled for Monday, Feb. 25, I Georgetown Shoppmg· plaza I ·at 9 p.m. "We still need people 
for costuming, make-up, light-
I 

ll WINTE-R.. s··-P-E~CI ~:. •s1 ing and sound to help Cathy
1~ O'Malley, the show's stageL manager," Ramker said. ---~~ OFF=--r--wrs$1-0--F._F___.. I~ ''The production is basically
11 the sophomore year as a musi­1 cal review, featuring many1 any large pizza I any small pizza 1 musical numbers consisting of



1-------------L------------ol show 
tunes with rewritten ly-

F. 1 rics," Ramker said. AccordingI uood Jan. thru Feb+ 1980 only I to Ramker, between 85 and 100 I · I sophomores are involved in the I New Sunday Hours Wide Screen TV I production, which is "a lot of 
singing, some dancing, and a
I

1 1-lOpm I lot offun." "The cast has been I · I workin~ really hard, sometimes I HAPPY HOUR r. II practicmg two to three nights aI 1 week since October. Now we're I 4-6pm ~ I all working as a team, putting lMonday thru Friday . I ~':;~:..'~k~r ~~;d~he produc· 
. ~~~~~~.~:=-~==~~~~~~~-~~~~~, ......~--~..~.-------~ 
.· 



-----~-------~--~------~ --~-­
The Observer Fliday, F~bruary S. 1980 -page 5 


NAZZ schedules perfornters for Mardi Gras entertainment 

by Barbara Bn'dges 

Notre Dame's talent show­case, the NAZZ, is gearing up for a busy semester by spot­lighting entertainers at next week's Mardi Gras festivities. 
The musical performers sche­duled for Mardi Gras include Brian McHale, and Gene Bar­banera on Monday night, the country and light rock tunes of "The Rubber Band" on Tues­day, along with the duo att of Rich Stevenson and Dan Bere­nato. Doug Strin~er will appear on Wednesday mght. 
Mary Ahern, student director of the NAZZ, has plans for this semester which include the "NAZZ Music Competition" on March 7, ''Lunchtime Con­certs" in La Fortune Student Center on Friday afternoons, and ''Open Stage'' nights where students may perform on stage in the NAZZ basement. 
The upcoming "NAZZ Music Competition" will be a major entertainment evening in the basement of La fortune. Appro~imately 15 acts will be presented and judged for cash prizes. In the past, this compe­tition has been held on rwo consecutive nights. 
This year, the entertainment 
Olympic hopefuls ponder boycott 
by Gary Cuneen 

If the Soviet Union does not abandon Afghanistan, would you be in favor of boycotting the 1980 Olympics? This question is being asked to many Olympic hopefuls and is becoming de­creasingly hypothetical as the Soviets continue penetrating Afghanistan. 
According to President Car­ter's February 20 deadline for the evacuation of all Soviet troops, American athletes, as well as athletes from other countries supporting Carter's strategy, will be confronted with the painful circumstances of not competing in the Olympic Games. This harsh reality could affect numerous dedicated athletes, and a few prospective Olympic athletes are sitting in 
our  backyard  here  at  Notre  
Dame.  
Tony Hatherly,  a  Canadian­ 

born long-distance runner ho­ping to get his opportunity to try out for Canada's Olympic team, reacts strongly against the boycott proposed by Presi­dent Carter. "I think it's unfair for the athletes. I don't think the Olympics should be made into a political circus. Econom­ic boycotts would serve a stronger purpose." 
Although Hatherly wishes to compete in the 5000 meter run representing Canada, he symp­athizes with the Amencans more than any other athletes. "It (the boycott) would be hurting the United States more than any other country because the U.S. has the best chance to win.'' 
Tracy Jacks""• a rotential member of the U.S. b :1-~:tball team who is mu h mo, _· con­cerned with tl· .emainder of Notre Dame's L.l!lsketball sea­son than with whether or not he'll make the Olympic team, has similar views concerning the boycott issue, but maintains that the government's decision will protect our athletes. 
'fi"f'"r7YPDi mzc f£ =ssc·m-az• 
"If I were a member of the team, I would want to plav and be against the boycott. For us to boycott would be disappoint­ing to some athletes, but would benefit all of us. We'd be risking our lives in Moscow, and the government wants to protect us. That's one of the main reasons the government is involved." 
In addition, Jackson empathi­zes with the other athletes par~i~ipating in less glamorous mdiVldual sports. "They've been training for four or more years and it makes them feel like they've been robbed." 
The situation is mentally an­guishing for the athletes in­volved, but the consensus of most American athletes is that they will stand behind their government's decision, even though they would be sacrific­ing years of training and Olym­pic dreams. 
The sacrifice is an immense one indeed, but as Jackson acknowledged, ''If something happened like the killing of the Jews (in the 1972 Munich Olympics), we could never for­give ourselves for sending our athletes over." 
NY judge overrules IOC; Taiwanese may carry flag 
LAKE PLACID, N.Y. (AP)-A New York state judge ruled yesterday that an athlete from Taiwan must be allowed to carry the island nation's tradi­tional red-and-blue flag at the opening Wednesday of the 1980 Winter Olympics. 
In a decision handed down in nearby Plattsburgh, Justice Norman L. Harvey said the Lake Placid Olympic Organi­zing Committee may not stop Liang Ren-Guey, a Nordic skier from Taiwan, from usin~ the flag of the Republic of Chma. 
In effect, the Judge overruled the policy of the International Olympic Committee, which re­cently admitted the People's Republic of China into the Olympic family and told Taiwan that tt would have to adopt a new flag and anthem. The IOC also said the Taiwan group would have to go by the name Chinese Taipei Olympic Com-­
mittee.  
The  Lake  Placid  group  had  
been  abiding  by  the  IOC' s  
policy.  

Monique Belioux, evecutive director of the IOC, said the judge's decision would be ap­pealed. It was not immediately clear, though, whether the Lake Placid Olympic Committee--the defendant in the suit--planned further action. 
Michael Lee, secretary-gener­al of the Republic of China Olympic Committee, could not immediately be reached for comment. 
However, only hours before the decision, he told The Asso­ciated Press he had faith in the 
U.S. Judicial system. 
"We are confident of a favor­able rulin~ because discrimina­tion is agamst your principles,'' he said. "We are the same Chinese, but we have received different treatment. We are the victims of political discrimina­tion.'' 
Lee, attache Kon-Son Ha an-d five athletes Including Liang were rejected at the accredita­tion center ·of the Olympics Village on Wednesday when they arrived at the shed-like structure to apply for housing and credentials. 
will be packed into one evening to insure the continuity and excitement of the event. Inter­ested participants will be given the opportunity to apply during February 18 through 27. 
Once again, the NAZZ will sponsor an "Open Stage" night each week so that anyone may stop by to perfor music, come­dy, or drama. 
The NAZZ basement will also be the scene of the Senior Arts Festival during April 13 to 19. The festival will showcase ori­ginal material written by senior students. 
In the past, ''Jazz at the NAZZ" was presented with the cooperation of the Notre Dame jazz combo and the music department. There are plans to reinstate the jazz evenings this semester as they have proven to be very popular. 
The NAZZ will be more mobile this year than it has been in the past, according to Ahern. Mardi Gras and outdoor con­certs in the spring will bring performers out of the La For­tune basement. 
Furthermore, the usual Wed­nesday through Saturday Nazz activities will be dressed-up a bit this semester as new carpet­ing and a fresh paint job are scheduled for the NAZZ base­ment. The all-volunteer NAZZ staff is looking for student painters to help with the re­
nodeling, scheduled to occur in .:he next few weeks. 
Ahern says she is pleased that this semester is proving to be busier than past years. The NAZZ is drawing more per­formers and a larger audience. The Nazz enjoys the reputation of being a great opportunity for entertainment exposure, and has helped launch the pro­fessional careers /of guitarist Rick Walters and Rich Prezioso. 

In Addition to Our Regular Menu 
THE BOAR'S HEAD IS PROUD TO ANNOUNCE 
Its All New 

"SUNDAY CHAMPAGNE BRUNCH" 
CHOQSE 1FROM OUR BRUNCH MF.NTT Qf. 
• Qu1cne Lorran te e Seafood QuicheeHam Rolrs eHam and Cheese Omelette 
All Dishes Served with Mixed 
~1\R"S-H8.1Jo
Fruit, Breakfast Potatoes,.Hot Fruit Muffins and All the Chamf!a[Jne You can Dn'nk. 


$5.95 
·d 
Brunch Available ~etween 

12 noon and 2:30pm 
CALL FOR RESERVATIONS• U.S. 31 North, South

272-5478 ·-·-~~~BJ 


----~­
Friday, February 8, 1980 -page 6 



Editorials 

We are-cheating ourselves 
There has been much talk of equality on this campus since 1973 when the whole tradition of Notre Dame as a Catholic institution for men was blessed with the entry of women as students and a new awareness of the women faculty. Every year articles appear in The Observer in an attempt to evaluate the attitudes of stu· dents, faculty, administrators and.alumni toward women, but to little avail in terms ofaltering any present attitudes. 
So why am I contributing to the wads in the wastebasket? Perhaps it is because 1 feel so strongly that in our obstinancy to recognize the b\as and discrimination which is bred at the university, we are cheating ourselves. 
The position of the women at Notre Dame is rather dubious. We have heard it said that the women here are "stuck-up, walking encyclopedias, com­petitive,etc." Some have even gone so far as to say that women's basketball is boring. Whatever the opinion , the above are generali:.:.ttions and a gross injustice to the women at this university who do not fill such a stereotype. 
Let's get it straight. The first thing to recognize in students at this or any other institution is that we are individuals with an identity all and uniquely our own and any generalization, directed toward men or women, is burdensome and insulting to that individuality. In failing to recognize with patience and awareness the individuality of women on our campus, it is my opinion that we are indeed 
Stacy Hennessy 

cheating ourselves. 
It seems a shame to me that a 
women might be looked on as 
only a cute date or a good cook. 
Why can't she be seen as one 
who is strong and sensitive, 
independent and alert, assert· 
ive and understanding, 
questioning and curious--and in 
all that be viewed as a very 
positive addition co the Norre 
Dame family? 
The recognition of women in society independent of stereo­types offers a whole new dimension to the relationships we come in contact with every day •• whether that relationship be within a business,academtc, or social/casual setting. The confrontation of men and women as individuals with something very real and constructive to offer each other in multitudinous settings is exciting and is to be encour­a~ed, not feared, shunned or dtscriminated against. 
Perhaps you are one who feels that I am just tnaking a big deal out of nothing or that this column is a bunch of rhetoric without conclusions. I sym­pathize with your conservative perspective. What I am articu­lating is this: should you be one of the many who choose to enclose yourself within the bell jar of society's traditional mores, who choose to perpet­uate the role of women as sex partners, or as having inferior status, weaker constitutions, etc., you are ·· be you mao or woman--only cheating yourself and depriving yourself of what could be a most valuable ex­perience. 
-The Observer_ 
~..... ........._----:o=-~~---------------------------~
.,,:mmis• .Hion of -~ ...! 

· Edir Lal Board and Departm~· rs
1 ~ •~ reportt't .~ J!er~!veJ-Sport.• l·,~zlc lark Pen} 
The Badger 



How blue can you get? 
Nobody seems to have taken much notice, but two weeks ago Notre Dame e;ot a bad case of the blues. Ctting poor attend­ance and lack of interest among the student body, Student U­nion officials will reluctantly recomment to their successors that the Midwest Blues Festival be discontinued. 
From a financial point of view, this year's blues festival was a major disappointment. Only 300 students purchased tickets, and attendance among South Bend residents was dis­mal. Due to an estimated loss of $7000, the Student Union, which operates on a very limi,t. ed budget, has no other alterna­
tive  than  to  drop  the  whole  
thine;.  
Sull,  it  was  student apathy  

more than economic austerity that killed the Midwestern Blues Festival. Most ND-SMC students, it seems, are more content to complain about the lack of social activities on campus than to take advantage of one of the year's most enjoyable events. 
Evidently, Domers prefer to hang around crowded dorm parties. Or, they choose to hitch a ride down to Corby's where they drink Old Style and 

The Abortion Quandary 
Where do our values lie? 
The phrase, "Between the woman, her doctor and her God," is very moving. Equally moving, however, is the phrase, "Life is sacred--Handle with Care.'' The question is ''Which of them is moving in the right direction?" 
Recently, a very beautiful (in terms of prose and style) article appeared in The Observer. The author recounted the experience of Mary, his friend, and her fateful decision to have an abortion. 
The story was a painful one, one of agony and conflict. Mary's available choices were not pleasant: to keep the child and disrupt her life forever or to abort the child and destroy an ideal, a moral statute. The decision is history; she chose the latter. 
·r .::annot condemn her action JUSt as I cannot condemn the thousands of Marvs around the world. It is beyond mortal limits to condemn another for such a course -· for that is God's place, and His place alone. However, I can express remorse that the situation occurred. 
Reading about this Mary, a Mary of our "family" here at Notre Dame, made me very sad. Althou~h it is true that I will never be in the same situation as Mary, I did feel a type of empathy for her. Then I looked for justification, a reason "Why?". She had been careful, the necessary precautions had been taken, but still it happened. 
God works I in mysterious ways or so I've been told. lJosstDly, this was His way of reminding His children ofreality. For those involved it was painful, but for those of us who merely read about it, perhaps some knowledge was gained. Unfortunately, the cost was very high. 
Before Christmas, Father Griffin in his "Letters to a Lonely God" column wrote an ;...-uck :~ntitled "Dial-A-God Morality." In it he 
M. Heaney, S.]. Kotz 

listen to top forty hits blaring on the stereo. After hours of pushing and shoving to get to the bar, they ~ head back to campus, stopping on the way to spend their last dollar on a wiener at the Great American Hot Dog Stand. Yum, yum. 
There is nothing wrong with an occasional foray tn the bars. Still, they get old fast, and the blues festival provided an ener­gy charged atmosphere that Corby's couldn't touch. Sche­duled a few weeks before the 
· end-of-semester onslaught, the festival let students put down their books and get down to the serious business of partying for a weekend. 
The blues festival's informal "bring a friend and a blanket" atmosphere was truly unique. No other campus concert that I have ever attended has come close to matching it. Groups of students and local residents brought in coolers of beer and bottles of wine. With the ample floor space, they could lay back' and listen to four hours of good blues. On either side of the stage, couples danced in wild abandon. Imagine trying to move your feet between the folding chairs and the security guards at the ACC. 
Thomas C. Jennings 

described how a young man had called him and 
asked for the arguments against going to bed 
with his girlfriend after the hockey game that 
night. Father Griffin was taken aback by the 
request--he did not know how to present the 
Church's case against pre-marital sex on such 
short notice. The question then involved the 
highly individualized aspect of morality. What 
is right and what 1s wrong is up for 
interpretation, as it seems everyond establishes . 
as correct whatever standards they feel comfort­
able with. 
The University? Ye~. they 'dO have an 
opinion. "Because a genuine and complete 
expression of love through St :. requires a 
commitment to a tf'':1! livinl! :nd sharing 
together of two per~'' c ;n ..-, riage, the 
Univer~ity believ<·s tha~ :u;:. ~ nion should 
occur only in marriag•_ ~ ~: ''• 1 ,,, ~ 
If Mary had first reali;;. -' :';,_ cummitment she 
was undertaking with a bn::l • tend ~.he had dated 
for only a "relative!}' sh"rt pel ;,•d of time'' 
perhaps her ideals concerning the s;,nctity of life 
would still remain. HoweH~r. cor>~mitment was 
not present, and as a resuh her ba. y was killed. I am not a radical ami-abortionist. I do not picket abortion centers; ' do n•,t threaten to withhold my vote from any candidate who does not have a hard anti-abortion line However, I -do feel strongll against the killing (yes, that is 
what it is) o the unborn. I t'eel sadness 
concerning the 600,000 unwed mothers in 1979· 
whose lives were disrupted, but where are our 
values when disruption has a higher priority 
than life? 
In conclusion, I would like to share with you the advice an 18th centun Duke gave to his son regarding sex. He said, • lle posi.,nn would be uncomfortable, the plea~tAre mo• -nrary, and the price abominable. '' 
But the blues festival was more than just a release. In past years, for about the same prive as a ] ulio' s pizza, one could see some of the world's greatest blues acts at Notre Dame. Among past performers were Albert King, Muddy Wa­ters, and John Lee Hooker. Although these are not hcuse­hold names to most Notre Dame students, rock 'n' roll artists such as Lennon and McCart­ney, Jagger and Richard, and yes kids, even Bruce have been greatly influenced by them. 
There are many reasons for the failure of this year's Mid­west Blues Festival. Some feel it was scheduled too late in the semester for most students to be able to blow off an entire weekend ofstudies. Others say that Notre Dame students just don't know a good time when they see it. More importantly, though, the festival's tight budget prohibited the bookmg of a big name to attract blues fans. 
However, the reasons for blues festival's demise do not seem nearly as important as the bare fact that there is no longer a Midwest Blues Festival at Notre Dame ... How blue can you get? 
Fealur#, f, ~n ConnellyPho;,, :dt 
, ~IIOI 

Box Q Notre Damt:.'. TN 465.56 •g Christian 
t~i -,
( -. 
,,

1/:u~ 0h\e"l'ff iS an indept:nd('!o! .' ,~J. :, " l:Ii<siness -Y.ana)~· ~eve Odlanci 
. ,~K c~USI f';_;..-i..,,-tio~ /t;" ~ r,-Cr---,-:
on•·,~·.•~···:-·~ ublrshcd by thr studem~­' : : ! a ·~•rt~ ul-the {'O~!Iffl'.·­..~ ·h: ·. ..; :jJty of Notre Dame du Ill< a1 ~-•h _· ;:r,... expres:~wn ot •-;· -. M ,; · Shtclds _..-~ 1: .·rtisinp ,A,1,;nag. '-.~ .. B: ~.., Rud•· "'' · . ·, M a,n/ ~; College It doe.., Ooi : ms on campus through k· ~ 
Co!rtroller.,,, .. ,... Kr-~io Manioi w·. ~, ..... :y. rcflecr the polie1es of the r.ircu!-tton /v -,_at-_.,'~ . (~~ ~ l-lc:c4::-· 
, ,';.;·.'~'t~ae;-_~,1 ~· ......., ·f·· 

if¥}'_ .. _......:.,..,..,,;.;~•=• ~,f ...1.'JJi··-~--~ -~· -t.'l.,. ._;..._ !.4 L._.,...:..,.:t:.Lt.__...__.,__--.-._...,?
~~-II!'I&!I'IW Aft&R&ri&PIIA"'iil"..lll'fi"'l&llll!ll'lil"'l&•as-a&&9&&~tl"&_c_....
---"---"""":.':':~:!',.'ll'li"!Iti<ll!:'!".f~.. ..... ___..,,..-.,_.,____________...._ 
The Observer -Eaitorials 


New Thunder on the Left 
Bernard Norling 

This essay is prompted by the tiona!, is mostly about ideals taxes conservatives with being and consists of straightforward naive, simplistic, and ridicu­
colorful polemics ofJoseph Duf­
fy and Kevin Behrndt (The struggles between Good and lous--among their lesser sins. Observer, Feb. 1). Some of Evil. In actuality, politics is Faults they have, to be sure, their fire was directed at me nothing of the sort: it is mostly but at least they know the personally, more at that machi­about power and money. Most difference between friends and avellian ogre Jimmy Carter, the of the time the choices that enemtes. 
master intelligence behind A­governments have to make are Both writers deliver impas­merica's sinister foreign policy. among several alternatives, sioned denunciations of even I have little to say to Illuminat­none of which are morally the possibility of a return to the resplendant, or even mundane­draft. That people should
ed people: e.~. those who 
believe that the1r prescriptions ly attractive, but one of which dislike the prospect of being for the conduct of {'Ublic affairs has to be accepted. Even mustered into the armed forces 
are synonymous With the work­worse, most of the ''problems'' is understandable. Military life ing of God's Will in the world. involved in the process are does not appeal to most people, To those ·who are less self-as­never "solved" at all; only and military service interrupts sured, some of the issues raised calmed, compromised, or got­personal plans for education 
in these two articles are worth ten around for a time. and careers. Still, do not 
consideration. Of course it would be splen­reasonable people establish 
Messrs. Duffy and Behrndt did if we could do without the priorities in their private af­are losin~ sleep needlessly over CIA, eliminate defense spend­fairs, and defer gratifications in our President's oral bellicosity ing, and stop using force to deal the face of compelling neces­about Afghanistan. Leonid with the world's most intract­sities? It is the same with Brezhnev must fear poor, be­able conundrums. Outside national needs. If our enemies fuddled, well-meaning Jimmy Wonderland though, nations are to take us seriously we must Carter to about the same de­need intelligence services and have more efficient armed gree that Ado)f Hitkr feared armed forces to prevent hostile forces, and these must be Neville Chamberlain, and for states from preying on them. perceived by them to be more some of the same reasons. This has always been self-evi­efficient. Experience has 
Both gentlemen are filled dent at all but utopian socialists shown that an all-volunteer with virtuous indignation when and innocent liberal sentiment­army does not suffice quantita­
they contemplate malign U.S. alists who believe in the mira­tively or qualitativelY, corporations, the wicked CIA, culous power of environmental Or, let us adopt the stance 
changes to eradicate what unfa­beloved by the pure of heartthe shocking level of U.S. 
shionable theologians used to and consider the matter on thedefense spending (well below call the effects of Original Sin. plane of high principle. Ameri­that of the USSR), and the This touching liberal faith, can society, like all societies,unchristian character of so which really derives from the has grievous deficiencies. Evenmany foreign rulers with whom 
we must Mr. anti-Christian Enlightenment of so, it offers its members a
deal. Behrndt 

sees in this the workings of the 18th century (consult any greater measure of individual ''American corporate imperial­elementary textbook in West­freedom, personal comfort, and ern Civ.), would not have economic opportunity than the
istic capitalism." No doubt Pravda would agree. He would eroded so seriously in our time overwhelming majority of the 
if it was soundly based. world's regimes, past or pre­
prefer "intelligent, rational, ef­fective leadership" that would (Compare the proportion of sent. These liberties and 
view the world ''in an intelli­liberal to anti-liberal societies opportunities have been secur­gent, moral, Christian fa-1 in the world in 1913 and 1980.) ed and defended by several shion.'' So would any sane Prof. Duffy describes the generations of the ancestors of 
person, if he had any way of USA and USSR as "the two present beneficiaries. The recognizing what is being pre­imperialist menaces to world English language contains a 
scribed. peace. '' If there is so little number of common terms des­Just how are glittering moral difference between them why cribing people who willingly imperatives reduced to specific did millions of ordinary people benefit from the sacrifices of 
flee from East to West Ger­others but who are unwilling
pieces of legislation and then enacted by representatives of many before the Berlin Wall even to inconvenience them­
was built? Why did more selves. "Christian idealist" is
imperfect men and women who represent a wide variety of millions flee from North Viet­not among them. 
nam to. the corrupt, decadent Finally, we might reflect a bitsectional, occupational, and i­South to be exploited by the on the career of Harry Truman. 
deological interests? How can He is the only U.S. Presidentwe be sure that the laws which agents of American imperial­since World War II who never
would emerge would still be ism? Why are Vietnamese transparently ''moral'' ? How ~efugees now in the USA rather went to college. Most histor­
than in Russia? Why is Andrei ians and publicists now regardwould they remain ''moral" Sakharov exiled in Soviet Rus­him as_ the ablest chief-execu­when implemented by a fallible sia while Jane Fonda makes tive we have had since 1945. Isbureaucracy ?Finally, how would millions in American movies this coincidental? Maybe. But
these successive miracles then effect tangible changes in na­and is lionized by craven ele­might it not be that Truman's tional affa1rs that would dearly ments in our unintelligentsia? relative success owed much to 
Which is it, the USA or the his native common sense neverfurther the march of Christian 
precepts through history? USSR, that has concentration having been undermined by Those who assume that their camps in which countless mil­academic ideologues who hate their own societies and strive to
political principles enjoy Divine lions have been enslaved and approbation ought to explain murdered for the past 60 years? disarm them before their sworn 
Perhaps these distinctions enemies? Truman had less tosome of this to those of us who 
have been less favored. are ,-not perceptible to Prof. unlearn than those who suc­Ideologues assume that poli­Duffy, but thay are to most ceeded him. 
other people. Mr. Behrndt
tics, either domestic or interna-

P. o~ Boi Q 
situation-reveals that her sha­

The Observer dow is powerful and her exist­
ence is basically erred. acaised of blatant When an individual facing a choice between life and death in 
. 

any given situation choosesse:x1sm death, it indicates that the person making the choice val­Dear Editor: ues death and non-being more than life and existence. Such a The photo printed on page 5 of choice by a living being sug­The Observer Uan. 31) and its gests a serious conflict within-­accompanying caption ''These that the living would choose the 
students are obviously pleased :lead. with the selection to be found in In no sense am I condemning the Deli" is an inexcusable Mary, but I am suggesting that instance of blatant sexism. her actions reveal a tragic truth 
While women have long been in h~r life and her existence; a 
identified as edible commodi­tragtc truth that many of us ties existing primarily to satiate have not had to face so directly.the appetites of their more I am, however, seriouslyphysically powerful· counter­challenging Chris and his sug­parts (through the role of gestion that guilt and moral peaches, tomatoes, cookies, responsibility and personal in­
chicks, etc.) for The Observerto sight can be avoided by claim­car~y o~ this _tradition of degra­ing that ideals are basicallydation 1s an tnsult to the entire 
shattered and that life itself is ~otre Dame community. In this tragic. As a thinker, a Christ­
ume of increased sensitivity to ian, and a mental health work­sexual discrimination The Ob­er, I cannot and will not allow 
server has reprehensibly viola­such a claim to remain unchal­ted the basic human dignity of lenged.womankind. 
Marshall D. Voris

(\.n apology is in itself insuffi­Cient. Only a change of policy regarding the sexist exploita­tion of women in The Observer Stewart: can begin to correct the damage already done. 
A voice after truth 

Diane Jefchak Dear Editor: 
Sentimentality I comment concerning Bill 
Hogan's letter on Chris Stew­

art's essay, "The Abortionclouds thought Quandary:'' 
Hogan criticizes Stewart for on abortion showing little compassion for 
"tragic" Mary. Then he pro­
ceeds to condemn her decision

Dear Editor: 
.. by quoting the Bible and the In a recent editorial column Pope. Furthermore, he takes 
by Chris Stewart we find an merciless swipes at Mary utili­example of the careless think­zing the sanctified ideal of the ing and emotional sentimentali­"Family," and the unresolved 
ty so very typical of much of issue of abortion as murder (Is modern thought. While being it murder? Morally? Legally? I sensitive to the very real and won't attempt to that
answer one.)

human tradegy that a pregnant girl faces, it is important that While calling for compassion, we understand the deeper is-­Hogan sure brought the big 
sues involved beyond her own guns to bear on Mary's reaction feelings and situation. to a crisis in her own life. Mary Before suggesting a way of deserves compassion and love, 
understanding the situation, a yes, but not in the form of 
word of caution must be added moralistic platitudes unending­
to this emotionally-charged si­ly regurgitated by the "pro­tuation. Christ allows only two hfers." alternatives in understanding Stewart tried to give Mary 
this situation--Mary's abortion hope. Hope to overcome her 
is outright murder, or Mary's trauma, hope that she will not abortion is acceptable because be ostracized as an outcast by of the difficulty of her choices those who know her secret, 
and situation. hope that the Christian com­There exists a middle ground munity will accept her regard­between the two alternatives--a 
less of the hard decision she has ground which is the most made. 
uncomfortable but also the It is easy for a man to tell a most human. It is a ground woman what to do with the which begins and ends with an fetus she is carrying--some­
awareness of our own weak­times it comes easy even when ness, sinfulness, cowardliness the male shares responsibility and darkness. Standing on that for the conception. 
ground along with Mary pre­Put yoursdf in Mary's place vents any condemnation and for a moment. iWhom would you harsh judgment on our part. In wish as a champion? Hogan a given Situation anyone of us who offers compassion if you 
may have been tempted and admit the wickedness of the pressured to acceptance of a results of a decision made not similar solution. 
from free choice as much as 

At the same time Chris from external forces exerting suggests that Mary's spirit was insuperable pressures, or Stew­basically and even essentially art whose first concern is 
good--and therefore she was in orotecting the person subjected some sense a victim of circum­
o the taunts of the tribe? stances and situations. Mary is Stewart is often too unpalat­
not a morally good agent any able for my own tastes, but this more than Chris is or this writer time he comes through loud and 
is. She is filled with selfish­
clear. A voice after truth. He ness, pride, manipulation, does not moralize on an issue greed and self-centeredness that has no top nor bottom nor 
like all of us. Perhaps most of boundaries of any kind. He the time she is well in control of simply evokes sympathy for this shadow, but the klecision to the victim of a "tragedy." abort the child because it was 
Sal Granata 

the most painless way out of the 

I 

Features Friday, February 8, 1~80-page 8 



Stahl Directs Days, 'Evening,' of Dance 
ment of the pointe slipper for w9men, 
The black box would do nicely, but present, three levels-of-dance a~e 
Kathy Connelly 

which enabled them to outstnp the
they'd have to bring in a crane and offered, and only classical ballet 1s 
.men in technical feats. So impressive
knock out the pillars and then rebuild offered for credit, and those are 
were the pointe performances that ''Steps are bemg made in the right 
the ceiling. But the black box would always filled to capacity. (This w_riter 
women began to take the male lead direction," Stahl said, looking a­
make a nice dance studio. ''The has tried unsuccessfully three umes 
roles, when lifts were not required. round Washington Hall, at the stage
black box" is a squarish room on the in four years to get into class). 
The association of the male role with floor that enabled her to offer pointe 
second floor of Washington Hall Stahl does, however, teach non­
the female performer and the even­lessons to her advanced students for
which gets its name from the color of credit classes at Saint Mary's in jazz, 
the walls, ceiling and floor. tap, movement and modern da~ce in tual return to men dancin~ male lead the first time. "Things take time," Downstairs, dance instructor Deb­order to provide students w1th a roles led to the compromising of the she added, with much determination reputation of ballet for men. matching the patience in her voice.
bie Stahl talks about the dance variety. Stahl came to ND-SMC two 
There is nothing compromising,
program at ND-SMC as her students years ago after receiving a ~aster ~f 
however, about the artistry, time and 
stretch and bend before large port­Science in ballet from Ind1ana Um­
dedication that must go into dance for 
able mirrors on the stage. There is versity, with a concentration in 
no regular dance studio in ":'hich Education. Since her arrival:, stu­both men and women. Stahl calls the students may work out routmes, dent interest in dance appears to determination of her students one of the most rewarding aspects of her
rehearse or exercise, she says. The have increased, with the classes 
ideal situation would be to have a drawing greater numbers of students work. 
wooden floor with permanently at­and for the first time in significant 
"A student may do a step 25 times in order to do it perfectly," she says, tached mirrors and barres along the numbers, men on campus have watching her students on stage out of walls. For the six years the dance enrolled in the ballet classes. 
program has been in existence stu­Stahl thinks that the defections of the corner ofher eyes. Itis especially 
r 
rewarding, she added, to see a gr~up
,r dents and instructors, with dedica­dancers from Communist countries tion which is particular to dancers, and resultant publicity have given the of beginners who may know nothmg.
, 
have found themselves conducting male ballet dancer a new respectabi­about dance progress to higher levels 
, of comprehension and skill.
, 
classes on stages at O'Laughlin and lity in the Unitt;d States, no. long~r 
Washington Hall. universally considered effemmate m Stahl would like to see the dance
, 
program expand the same way.
The lack of fully equipped facilities our "macho-first" society. 
This characterization, Stahl sug­''The department is learning aboutis indicative of the underdeveloped 
status of rhe dance program. At gests, originated with the develop-dance as we go along," she reflects, acknowledging that she has free rein over the program, includin_g class size and detatls of production and direction for /erformances. Stahl choreographe and directed the J?­vening of Dance to be presented thts weekend at Saint Mary's. 
The Evening of Dance reflects Stahl's diverse talents and interests including jazz, classical ballet and creative movement. The !rogram includes solo, paired an group performances by Sta~l's advanced students. Accompamment ranges from Mozart to Copeland. 
The weekend performance is the second to be offered this academic 
SMCsenior Manan Wittenberg

year. Stahl hopes to expand the 
and Notre Dame junior Rick

performance schedule to mclude a 
Dohn'ng rehearse for tonight's

full ballet next year, and is consider­
performance. [photo by rJdJ

ing ''The Little Matchgirl'' for the first attempt. 
~-Pinball Phobia 
Brian Konzen 

Charles Wood 

The administration will soon pub­apathetic, all they want is that freeSeveral events in Atlanta, Georgi~. was not worried about any type of lish the results of an alcohol survey extra ball. They are slimy scum, theoccurred earlier this week that all but overt racism at Notre Dame or South distributed last semester. Under­putrid filthy derelicts of society, theconfirmed the rumors that have been Bend, such an idea would be ''out of standably, the University is con­hopel~ss waste products that inhabitcoming out of that city for weeks. 
the question.'' But he has admitte_d cerned about the abuse of alcohol on the basements of our hallowed dorm­Ex-U.N. Ambassador Andrew Young in the past that he feared for hts campus; but what about another, itories.

held a press conference yesterday safety and that of his family since he more serious addiction? How long Besides, the pinball addict iswhich had led political analysts to would be forced to live off-campus. 
can the administration ignore the harmful to our society. What could assume that he will indeed put Earlier this week, his family publish­growing use of pinball machines on the World Hunger Coalition do if they himself in the runnin~ for the ed an editorial in several Georgia campus? received all the money spent of Spacepresidency of the Universlty of Notre newspapers saying in essence that 
Pinball machines are easily avail­Invaders in a single week at NotreDame. they gave him "permission" to run able on campus and in local student Dame? Addicts usually flunk out,
There had been speculation in for the office in spite of the possible bars. Instead of drinking, more and either by ignoring thetr studies or
academic and political circles that dangers, if that was the only thing more students waste the'j,r time because of mental illnesses inducedYoung would make such a move, but 
stopping him. playing pinball in the bars. Profes­by the constant ringing of electronicthe dangers seemed to outweigh the This editorial was what led Young to sors frequently report that tardy bells. Afterwards, they go on welfare
possible benefits. The major benefit call the press into his home for a students excuse themselves by ex­and hard-working Arts and Lettersfor Young, according to a close 
conference. "All of this speculation plaining that there were lines in front students like myself have to suppo_rtfriend, would be the chance to help has gone far enough," he told of the Space Invaders game. Thirsty them. I can't keep my roommate tnthe future leaders develop their skills reporters. "Fr. Hesburgh is doing an students with twenty-one I.D.'s often quarters as it is. 
and talents. exemplary job over there at Notre cannot enjoy happy hours because What can be done to help the
''But of course Andy could not Dame. Some may say it's time for hoardes of underclassmen overcrowd pinballaholic? Very _little. I fi~? thatignore the fact that such a position some 'young blood', but I cannot the bars just to play pinball or shoot administering masstve quantttte~ ofwould be good for him also. After all agree. Now it may be that with my pool. . beer eliminates muscular coordtna­he had been looking for some way to experience with the youth of this The pinball user harm~ htmself; ~II tion so he cannot insert a quarter into get back into the political arena, and country and with the world of electronic gaines are htghly addtc­the machine. However, this is anhe knew a job within the government national and international politics I tive. Excessive play can cause unsatisfactory Jon~ term solution.
itself was out of the question. Well, would be suited for the job. But I do hypertension, deafness, mental re­Perhaps the admtnistration shouldsomebody found out that Fr. Hes­not want to cause such a split among tardation, and hairy palms. Hard­distribute a pinball survey, based onburgh submits his resignation every 
the trustees that some third party will core addict often grow beards, wear the alcohol surveys of last semester. year and is of course unopposed. run away with the presidency. I state 
T·shirts, forget to bathe, and con-Dean Roemer could remove allSome of us thought that Andy ought unequivocably that I do not now 
stantly borrow quarters. They show pinball machines from campus, and to give it a try." intend to run for. the presidency of the affinitY for a certain song by Elton local bars could demand to see a
One person who did n?t agree _was University against Fr. Hesburgh." 
John ~r the Who. They neglect their twenty-one I.D. before allowing their'Young himself. Ever smce the 1dea At this point in the speech, Young ·classes because they care only for the patrons to play pinball. Clearly,started, he has said that he will not stopped to take a sip from a Notre hallucinogenic colors and buzztng something has to be done. We've gotrun. It is certain that the dangerous 
Dame insignia glass, brushed some sounds the games produce. Worsr_ of trouble, with a capital "T" and that aspects of such a move . were his lim off of his leprechaun lapel pin, all, they play a game they cannot wm, rhymes with ''P'' and that stands for
major concern. He has sa1d that he and added, "on the Qther hand ... " but they don't even care. Lazy and PINBALL. 



r 



The Observer Friday, Februaryr 8, 1980-page~ 
LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD 
At a table in an all-night restaurant, a young man and a young woman sat over cups of coffee that they hadn't tasted for nearly an hour. The waitress approached them with a freshly-brewed pot, and asked: "Can I warm it up?" 
"Oh yes," they said, "warm it up, please,'' as thought they had been waiting for her; as though added heat were all that was needed for them to drain their cups gratefully to the dregs. Actually, the coffee was all that was left to them of a lovely evening. When the coffee was gone, the evening would be over; they were not ready for their time together to end. 
He said to her: ''I should get you home. Your folks will be worried." 
"Oh no," she said quickly, "I told them we'd be late." She would not be hustled home on a pretext. Common sense told them that they should get some sleep, but she was not going to use her parents' worry as an excuse for letting go of a lovely evening. 
"When we're married," he said, ''we'll wake up in the darkness, and we'II think: we're together, and together's being hQme, and there's no place else we'll have to go." 
"No place at all that we'll have to go," she said, "for at least fifty or sixty years." 
''Except when I go to work,'' he said. ''I'll always hate to leave you when I go to work." 
"I'll drive you to work," she said, 
What~ All 

Then? 

Gerald Curtin 
PERFORMANCE--ON CAMPUS 

An Evening of Dance on Friday and Saturday, February 8 and 9 at 8:00. O'Laughlin Auditorium (in Moreau Hall at SMC). Students of Debra Stahl present an evening of dance, in many different styles. 
Concert, on Sunday, February 10 at 
8:00 in the Library Auditorium. Judy Hancock, a guest artist, performs at Notre Dame. 
CINEMA--ON CAMPUS 

Nishant, on Saturday, February 9 at 7:oo. Library Auditorium. Spon­sored by the India Association. 
The_ Fantastic Voyage, on Saturday and Sunday, February 9 and 10 at 
7:00 and 9:00. Carroll Hall (SMC). A top scientist is shot, and suffers brain damage, so several doctors and a boat are miniaturized and injected in 
his bloodstream. The complication? 

I One of them is .a traitor. Unabashed­ly science fiction, with Raquel Welch 1nd Stephen Boyd. 
4vargal on Sunday, February 10 at 
2:00. Li.brary Auditorium. Sponsored by the India Association. 
Letting Go 
"or I'll ride with you on the bus. I'll wait for you outside the building; and at lunchtime or on coffee breaks, you can come down to talk to me." 
''I couldn't let you do that,'' he said. "You'll have to do some things by yourself. ' ' 
''Why would we get married,'' she said, "if we didn't always intend to be together?" 
"In New York," he said, "they talk about Fourteenth Street Mary. There was this old woman nam<(fl Mary; and every night, she'd come and sit on the steps of the Brothers' house at St. Bernard's Church on Fourteenth Street. Everybody knew her, and she knew all the priests and brothers that went in and out of that house, but nobody knew why she came there. Finally, some of the Brothers figured it out that her husband must have been a motor man on the old-time street cars, and she'd sit on the Brothers' steps, watching him ride past. One day her husband died, and the street cars stopped running; but Mary, out of habit, kept coming to St. Bernard's year after year, because she didn't have any place else to go." 
"Well," said the girl, "I guess when I'm a crazy old lady, they'll be ca1ling me Dun and Bradstreet Nancy, if that's the kind of old age I'm going to be left with." 
"Don't you know," he said, "when we're a hundred, we'll still be together?'' 
"If you're going to die," she said, "and leave me by myself, I don't 
CINEMA--OFF CAMPUS 
The jerk at 7:30 and 9:30. University Park I. Steve Martin stars in the "film" about a poor man's rise to riches. Also starring Bernadette Peters, and a dog with considerably more talent than Martin. 
Going in Style at 8:00 and 10:00. University Park II. Art Carney, George Burns, and Lee Strasberg star m this film about three elderly men who decide to do something about their forced inactivity. 

The Electn'c Horseman at 7:15 and 
9:45. University Park III. Robert Redford stars with]ane Fonda and a horse in this film about a man's decision to follow his own conscience rather than the dictates of the corporation for whom he had been promoting cereal. Pleasant. 
Kramer vs. Kramer at 7:00 and 9: 15. Forum II. An advertising executive must learn to raise his young son alone after his wife walks out, only to face losing him once she returns. Starring Dustin Hoffman (in an excellent role) and Meryl Streep. 

know how you can speak of our old age together.'' She wasn't crying; but her words had an edge of disappointment to them, as though resentful of his going gentle into that good night. ''How long do you suppose we've got before you hustle off to be by yourself? ' ' 
"Oh, honey," he said, "you're tired. Neither of us is hustling anywhere, except home to bed." 
"You go to bed, ifyou need to," she said. "I thought we were having a lovely time, sitting here by ourselves. 
But I don't want to keep you up, if you're tired." "We'll drink our coffee," he said, "and then we'll go." 
"Talk about Grandaddy Grunt," she said. ''I wonder if it's healthy for a boy your age to get over~tired· so early?" 
"In an hour," he said, "it'll be sunrise. We could go jogging when it's light enough, then have break­fast; and after that, go home and get showers before going to work.'' 
"No," she saicf, "in fifteen minutes 
we'll leave here, and you can take me 
home. Fifteen minutes isn't much, 
whether we're talking here or sleep­
ing." 

"Make it a half hour," he said. 
''] ust thirty more minutes out of the 
rest of our lifetimes that they can't 
take away from us." 
"In thirty minutes," she said, "we 
have to go. Sooner or later, one of us always has to go. Otherwise, always being there, I'd embarrass you, like 
The Black Hole at 7:20 and 9:20. Forum I. Walt Disney abandons its ''Anytown, USA" sets for this tale of a space station perched precariously on the edge of a black hole. 
The Runner Stumbles at 7:15 and 
9:25. Forum Ill. Dick Van Dyke stars in this courtroom melodrama about a 
~defrocked priest falsely accused of murdering a nun who had been his lover. With Tammy Grimes, Mau­reen Stapleton, and a man who looks like Mr. Fritz, the optician. 
Star Trek: The Motion Picture at 7:05 and 9:45. Town and Country I. When a mysterious and alien being is heading directly for Earth, the U.S.S. Enterprise is pulled out of retirement to combat the evil. With William Shatner, · Leonard Nimoy, and De­Forest Kelly. 
A Force of One, at 7:55 and 9:55. Town and Country II. A team of undercover nar-cotics agents become murder victims. Starring Chuck Norris and]ennifer O'Neill. 
Amencan Gigolo at 7:00 and 9:30. River Park. Richard Gere and Lauren Hutton star in this empty story about a very expensive male prostitute. 
TheRoseat 7:05 and 9:30. Scottsdale Theater. Bette Midler stars in this film about the fast and destructive life ofa 60s rock singer, loosely based on the life of]anis]oplin. 

Rev. Robert Griffin 
some old lady hanging around Four­teenth Street like a crazy ghost.'' 
"Mary wasn't crazy," he said. ''A man would be lucky to have a wife like Mary; only people felt sorry for her, that's all." 
She rose to her feet. "Let's go," she said. "Hanging on like this, we're just making ourselves miser­able. We're just watching ourselves 
, act like there was no tomorrow. " They left full cups of coffee on the table behind them. The waitress, clearing the table, had known they wouldn't drink .the coffee. "They just needed a place to hang around,'' she thought. ''They bought coffee so that they'd have some place comfortable to sit." Outside, in the freshness of the pre-dawn darkness, the young man and the young woman moved quickly ,to the car. Letting go of their evening, they would go home now, and sleep. In dreams and in daydreams, they kept faithful. Being in love, they were always together, listening for sounds of the other busy in an adjoining room. Letting go, they found to their surprise, was an experience of discovering that events couldn't separate them; even death couldn't separate them. Existence itself was as full of memories as an evening on Fourteenth Street, where the Brothers' steps at St. Bernard's were more necessary for together­ness than all the unwanted cups of coffee that they never drank. 

~.,--15E ONE OF THEM ·~k: ~" ft:oF'l£ ..we BEEW ~k::l'-"f Aa:vr. 
AT VEGETABLE BUDDIES 
The Faith Band, Friday and Satur­day, February 8 and 9. The Faith Band, a favonte of many in the area, presents its own innovative brand of high energy rock and roll. 
THEATRE 
Godspell, at the Recital Hall of Century Center, downtown South Bend. This rock musical is based on the gospels of Matthew and Luke with music and lyrics by Stephen Schwartz. Tickets are $3 and may be obtained at the box office. Shows are 
at  8  p.m.  tonight,  tomorrow  and  
Sunday.  
Calzfornia  Suite,  8:30  tonight  and  

tomorrow presented by the South Bend Civic Theatre at the Firehouse Theatre at 701 Portage Ave. The theatre is tiny, so call 234-5696 or 233-0683 for reservations. This Neil Simon play(the film version, if you remember, starred Jane Fonda, Alan Aida, Bill Cosby and Maggie Smith) centers on four couples visiting California. 
• 


• 

The Observer Friday, Februacy--·s, 1980 :pag.e 10 
.,... ~. ......
---·-~~---------~~------------------------------~----~~--~~--­

FREE quart ofRC Cola with any large Rizzopiual 
277-4926 

WE DELIVER 
18439 State Road 23, South Bend 
COLLEGE STUDENTS GUIDE TO FT. LAUDERDALE 
A new comprehensive book about Ft. Lauderdale written specifically for college students. The book includes a map of the city, locations, phone numbers, prices and all the latest information about dtsco's, restaurants, recreational facilities, places of interest and where to rent everything from cars to roller skates. The book will tell you how to save money and get the most fromJour vacation. Order now by sending your name, address an check or money order for $4.95 to Hansen Publishing & Distributing Co., Dept. M, P.O. Box 17244, Plantawm, Fla. 33318. Your book will be sent by return mail 


A COMPANY CALLED TRW WILL BE ON CAMPUS 
FEBRUARY 8 
TO INTERVIEW GRADUATES IN SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL DISCIPLINES 
CONTACT THE PLACEMENT OFFICE TO SCHEDULE YOUR APPOINTMENT.
I ­I 
IF UNABLE 
TO MEET 
WITH US, 
SEND YOUR 
RESUME TO:
cCCJbTRW 
DEFENSE AND S'"ACE SYSTEMS GROUP 
College Relatione & Educational Programs Dept. ND:Z/1, R!5/B1118, One Space Park, Redondo Beach, California 110278 
• 

Vance to open IOC session 
LAKE PLACID* N.Y. (AP) ­
The International Olympic 
Committee, hardening against 
President Carter's plan for 
moving the Olympic Games 
from Moscow, learned yester­
day it will get a visit from 
Secretary of State Cyrus Vance. 
The State Department confir­med Vance will open the 82nd session of the IOC at Lake Placid tomorrow night, prior to the Winter Olympic Games. He will be representing the Presi­dent. It is not uncommon for a head of state to formally open the meetings of the IOC. 
The announcement opened the door to the first contacts bet­ween the U.S. government and the IOC since Carter first intervened and asked the Olym­pics be taken away from Mos­cow as a reprisal for Soviet intervention in Afghanistan. 
Lord Killanin, IOC president, said on his arrival at Lake Placid Wednesday he had not asked for a meeting with Car­ter, and Carter had made no move to meet him. Killanin has insisted the Games cannot be moved from Moscow, and has called on the Olympic move­ment to resist pressures from governments. 
By yesterday about 20 IOC members had arrived for the three-day session starting Sun­day. Not one of them showed any sign of going along with Carter. 
"We can't even think of moving the Gan1es because Moscow has not broken an Olympic rule," said Lance Cross of New Zealand, a mem­ber of the Executive board. 
The board was to meet yester­day, but IOC president Lord Killanin postponed the meeting until today. 
Killanin spent the day going through files of recent events-­the Soviet intervention in Af­ghanistan, Carter's demands that the Games be moved or conceled ifSoviet troops are not withdrawn, and his threat to ask the U.S. Olympic Commit­tee not to send a team if these conditions are not met. 

Killanin studied reports from many of the national Olympic committees. More than 30 governments have supported Carter's plan, but some have made it clear they will leave the decision to the national Olympic committees. 
Leaders of the U.S. Olympic Committee--Robert Kane, pres-· ident, and Col. Don F. Miller, exec.utive director--are to meet with the IOC executive board today to deliver Carter's re­quests. 
But USOC sources said Kane and Miller are not likely to advocate moving the Games with any great enthusiasm. When the USOC executive board met at Colorado Springs two weeks ago, the body voted to take Carter's demands to the IOC. 
Kane and Miller have to steer a delicate course between duty to the White House and loyalty to the Olympic ideals. 
Vitaly Smirnov of the Soviet Union, a vice-president of the IOC, will be at the meeting. He already has spoken of possible sanctions agamst the USOC if it breaches the Olympic Charter. 
Rule 24 of the Charter, dealing with the 140 recognized Nation­al Olympic Committees, says: ''NOCs must be autonomous and must resist all pressures of any kind whatsoever, whether of a political, religious or eco­nomtc nature. In pursuing their objectives, NOCs may cooper­ate with private or government organizations. However, they· must never associate them­selves with any undertaking which would be in conflict with the principles of the Olympic movement and with the rules of the IOC." 
If the USOC advocated a government plan to change the site of the 1980 Games it might be in danger of suspension, or even of losing the 1984 Games scheduled for Los Angeles. 
The two American members, Douglas Roby and Julian K. 
. Roosevelt, do not support moving the Games from Mos­cow. Of the 89 members, 76 are expected at Lake Placid. 

Mardis Gras opens 
The annual Mardi Gras cele­booth and section designers. 
bration at Notre Dame, spon-~ The theme for this year's sored by the Student Union, celebration is ''On the Town,'' will be held tomorrow through and a highlight will be a 1950's Feb. 16 in Stepan Center. The Valentine Dance from 9 to 12 on daily programs of entertain­Thursday night. ment· are open to the public, The hours of operation are 6 and all proceeds will be distri­p.m. to midnight daily with the buted to local charities. exception of tomorrow and 
Residence halls and student Sunday when doors will open at organizations compete for noon. An admission charge of awards presented annually to $1.50 is payable at the door. 
• • • FLOC 

continued from p. 1 
how much the workers will be 
paid, Huber said. 
"The price for next fall's crop has already been determined, and the union had no voice whatsoever in the decision. We want to be involved in the determination of the price,'' Huber said. 
If the boycott is passed, it will only be a temporary ban on Libby's and Campbell's pro­ducts. · 
Huber said that the purpose ofthe boycott is not only to hurt the companies, but also to call attention to the migrant farm­workers' plight. "A yes vote on the ban at a major university such as Notre Dame will gain some publicity,'' Huber pointed out. ''Also, students that are made aware of what we stand for may take our ideas back home with them. This will help us even further.'' 
Huber explained that another effect of the boycott may be the discontinuation of certain label programs in schools. These pro~rams, sponsored by Camp bell s, offer reimbursement to the schools for a certain amount of labels that are collected by the students. The end of these programs could mean a de­crease in sales for Campbell's. When asked why Notre Dame 
was singled out to participate in 
the referendum, Huber pointed 
out rheproximityof the campus 
to the area involved. 
''The farms that we are talking about are located in northwest­ern Ohio, near Toledo. The major plants of Campbell's and Libby's are located in this area. Also, in the summer months, South Bend witnesses a large influx of migrant workers who work on local farms," Huber 
·explained. 
According to Huber, the ban has received support for almost a year. One sector that has been giving a lot of support is church groups. 
One man in particular, Bishop William McManus of the South Bend diocese, is an ardent supporter of FLOC's efforts. Huber quoted McManus as saying, "I think Catholics should give heed to the migrant farmworkers' boycott.'' 
The work of FLOC does not end with the referendum. The ~roup is hoping to have a 
'FLOC night" at the Nazz, on Feb. 29. The evening will feature student talent, and donations to help defray FLOC's expenses will be col­lected at the door. FLOC will also continue to hold regular meetings. 
The next meeting will be h¢ld on Monday at 9:30 p.m. in tne LaFortune Ballroom. 

.! . 
The Observer 

Former 
Ford 
•

executtve claims Pinto design 
inadequate 
Honor society selects members 
Omicron Delta Kappa, the 
national leadership honor socie­
ty, has selected part of its 
membership. The group re­
cognizes and encourages 
achievement in scholarship, 
athletics, student government, 
social and religious affairs, 
publications, and the fine arts. 
New members include: Mike 
Boushka, Mike Budd, Lisa Cha­
vez, Ellen Dorney, Steve Dyer, 
Tom Gibbons, Maggy Lally, 
Mike Mitchell, Jim Montagano, 
Peter Paganelli, Dave Poulin 
and Perry Stow. 
For information concerning eligibility, contact any of the officers. They are Roman Macra, president (3746), Erin Boyle, vicecpresident (4313), 
Brian McAuliffe, secretary 
(4385) and Dave DiSabato, 
treasurer(8672). 
Ski areas open during week 
Bendix Woods and St. Pat­rick's County Parks are open for cross country skiing every day of the week. Complete rental equipment is available at Ben­dix Woods Sunday through Thursday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. and 
.Friday and Saturday, 10 a.m. to 9..-p.m. Rental equipment is available at St. Patrick's 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Monday through Friday and 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on weekends. 
Cross country ski instructors are on hand at Bendix Woods on Wednesday afternoons with classes starting at 1 p.m. On weekends, cross country ski instructors are available all mor~ing and afternoon. 
Bendix Woods has two lightc• 
trails for night ski touring aud 
rentals for Fri• <~n? "aturdav 
: ·:ning~. .•v s~~o.1 
Monday chroug. ty with 
their own ·-kr equ~pmt .. Night 
;_rails arr-iused if ;he (>ad is 
p.:; open ,., downhill skring. 
c all #: ,.'',54-31 1) for further 
Wh1rmaL• com' , ·.-. cross 
•untry .. ;•ng and • : .... ,-uction the ~~S~.E~~:y.~ .,~~.."'-"..~-~ 
----~---~

.. -----,=-,
~---:=.':"""''', 
Friday, February 8, 1980 -page 11 
WINAMAC, Ind. (AP) -Ford Motor Co.'s Pinto subcompact could have been modified for $6.65 per car to withstand rear-end collisions at 30 mph without fire risk, a former Ford executive testified yesterday irt the automaker' s reckless hom­icide trial. 
Instead, top company officials decided against correcting de­fects in Pinto fuel tanks to save money, said Harley Copp, an engineer who was a Ford vice-president for European operations and later was in charge of crash tests at Ford's Dearborn, Mich., headquar­ters. 
Ford is charged with reckless homicide in the August 1978 deaths of three young women in a 1973 Pinto sedan that ex­ploded when hit from behind by a van near Goshen, Ind. 
The state contends that Ford knew Pinto fuel tanks were likely to explode in rear-end collisions but sold the cars anyway without making repairs or warning the public. 
The trial ended its fifth week yesterday, and chief prosecutor Michael A. Cosentino said he expected to wrap up his case next week. 
Copp, the key prosecution witness, told the Pulaski Circuit Court jury the 1973 Pinto was designed to withstand a 20 mph rear-end crash involving a 4,000 pound vehicle. 
Copp said that in August 1969, at a product strategy meeting with then-Ford President Lee 
A. Iacocca and other Ford executives, a proposal to in­crease the safety standard to 30 mph was rejected ''because of cost and ensuing problems." 
In April 1971, at a product review meeting, it was deter­mined that the Pinto could be modified to withstand a 30 mph rear impact at a cost of $6.65 per car, Copp said. 
Chief Ford attorney ] ames F. Neal objected that the $6.65 estimate was for the 1974 Pinto and ·that company executives decided at the same meeting to keep the 20 mph rear-impact standard for the 1973 model.j However, Judge Harold R.: Staffeldt allowed the testimony and introduction of a Ford document concerning t-he meet­ing, adding that Neal could try 

to show inaccuracies later. Copp also told the iury that the rear structure and fuel tank design of the 1973 Pinto were "grossly inadequate, probably the weakest I've seen in cars in the last 10 to 12 years.'' 
He criticized the crush space between the gas tank and the bumper, the strength of the floor pan above the tank, the design of the fuel tank filler tube-which he said caused it to pull out during a rear-end collision-and the size and shape of the tank itself. 
If the 1973 Pinto had been :lesigned like other subcom­
pacts at the time, it would have been able to withstand a rear~ impact crash at 40-50 mph without fire risk, Cop~;> said. "As illustrated in thts case, these people would have survi­ved if the fuel tank had not caused a fire," he added. 
Previous testimony has indica­ted a 30-35 mph difference between the Pinto and the van involved in the Indiana crash . 
Ford announced in June 1978 that it was recalling 1. 5 million Pintos and Mercury Bobcats for fuel system modifications. The repair kits were distributed in September 1978--a month after the Indiana incident. 


THE LEADING NEWSMAGAZINE AT THE LOWEST PRICE. 
Because you attend college you are eligible to receive TIME, the world's lead· ing newsweekly . at the lowest indi­~dual subscription rate, just 35¢ an issue. That's BIG SAVINGS off the regular ~ubscription rate of 59¢ an issue and even BIGGER SAVINGS off the $1.25 
newsstand price. 

And it's so simple to subscribe-just look for the cards with TIME and its sister publications, Sports Illustrated, Fortune; Life, Money and People. They are· available at the college bookstore or from your local TIME representative· 
Kevin Rochford 121 E. Navarre South Bend, IN 46601 
li 
(219) 233-5298 
I
I 

~~,........~-.nww•"' ·~-.~ '-'"~A-~'2~_,.,_-_,.......______________~·~'~"-~·~"'"-""'_~_"'== ...... •· ·-··--_-___-_-_-_--_-_-_-__.~___ 
The Observer 

Etnotional testimony tnarks Gacy trial 
CHICAGO (AP) -The mother of a boy found buried under John W. Gacy Jr.'s house burst into sobs and" fainted on the witness stand at Gacy's mass murder trial yesterday as she identified a chain bracelet worn by her son. 

"That's Sam's bracelet!" cried Bessie Stapleton, 39. She took the stand to identify pho­tographs and belongings of their sons whose remains were dug up on Gacy's property. 
Gacy, 3 7, a former remodeling contractor, has J?leaded inno­cent by reason of Insanity to the sex-relted killings of 33 young men and boys. If convicted, he could face the death penalty. 
Gacy sat facing the judse'~ bench and showed no emouon 
Mrs. Stapleton told the jury that Samuel, her 14-year-old son by a previous marriage, worked nights in a pizza parlor and attended school in the daytime. 

He was reported missing May 13, 1976, after he left the house saying he was going to see his 
SPDR dept. sponsors 
'Dance' 
The Speech and Drama de­partments of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will sponsor "An Evening of Dance" tonight and tomorrow night at 8 in 
O'Laughlin at SMC. Dance instructor Debra Sedore Stahl has combined ballet, jazz and interpretative dance in the pro­
gram, as well as· such new concepts in dance as dance bags. The program is just one facet of the department's major production season, and admis­sion is free to anyone in­
tere~ted. 

sister. "That is the last time I ever saw him," his mother said. 
Mrs. Stapleton said he wore a chain bracelet, something like a dogtag chain. 
At that point, prosecutor Terry Sullivan walked to the witness stand with an envelope, opened it and spilled out a bracelet. That touched off Mrs. Staple­ton's sobbing. 
She then fainted on the wit­ness chair, was helped from the courtroom and s:;arried to a couch where she was revived. 
Judge Louis B. Garippo called a brief recess and had the jury leave the courtroom. 
The testimony came as the trial entered its second day. It proved to be an emotional scene with the mothers of the victims crying and spectators dabbing their eyes with handkerchiefs. 
In late December 1978, the first of 26 bodies were dug ur from a crawl space unde1 Gacy' s home just northwest of Chicago. Three other bodies were found buried on his prop­erty and four bodies were found in rivers and later linked to the defendant. 
Only 22 bodies have been identified, mainly through dental records. The first one to be buried under the house, in 1972, has never been identified. That victim had been stabbed. but all the rest were strangled. authorities said. 
WBBM broadcasts College Bowl 
WBBM in Chicago will broad­cast the college bowl games in which Notre Dame played on Sundays at 8:30 p.m., begin­ning with the ND/San Fran..is­co game this Sunday. 
Friday, Februa!y 8, 1980 ~page 12 

Bani Sadr criticizes militants 
(AP) With tough talk and stern action, President Abolhassan Bani Sadr hammered away yesterday at the U.S. Embassy militants' remaining power and prestige among the Iranian people, as reports persisted that the American hostages might be freed soon. 
For the second straight day, the new Iranian president blasted the young Moslem radi­cals publicly, calling them "rebels against the govern­ment." And the Revolutionary Council, led by Bani Sadr, took action against them, restricting their access to national radio and television. 
It appeared ·Bani Sadr was trying to undercut the militants' 


River City Records & CelebratiOn Present 
witn special guests 
BLACKFOOT 
also appearing Off Broadway 
I 

Friday March 14 • 7:30pm 
I 
I 
Morris Civic Auditori~m • South Bend
I I I I 
Tickets: $9.00/$8.00;all seats reserved-tickets go on sale Set. Feb. 9 at 10:00am at all 4 River City flec.ords locations only!
t 
I 
• 
stiuus as revolutionary heroes in preparation for a resolution of the hostage crisis being worked out behind the scenes. 
A Kuwait newspaper, the weekly AI Khadaf, reported from Teheran that the release of the approximately 50 Ameri­can hostages at the embassy was "imminent." The paper, which did not identify the source of its information, said the number of militants at the Embassy had been reduced from 400 to 50. 
It said U.N. Secretary-General Kurt W aldheim was trying to persuade Bani Sadr to ''pres­sure the students to leave the Embassy and have them· re­placed by regular Iranian troops." 
U.S. officials were cautious in commenting on the Kuwaiti report. 
Deputy Secretary of State Warren Christopher said on NBC-TV's "Today" show the situation was' 'somewhat prom­ising." Spokesman George Sherman said the State De­partment had no evidence to confirm the report. And Hod­ding Carter, chief department spokesman, said, "I do not see an ~ imminent release of the hostages." 
Carter said the U.S. Govern­ment was still uncertain about Iran's terms for releasing the hostages, who spent their 96th day in captivity yesterday. 
W aldheim has been trying to work out an arrangement whereby an international com­mission would be established to investigate the alleged crimes of the deposed shah's regime, in return for release of the 
· hosta~es. But U.N. officials say the ttmins of the release -­whether It will be as the commission begins its work or after it is completed --remains unsettled. 
Adding to the confusion, some Iranian officials still say they believe the hostages cannot be freed until the ousted Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi is returned to Iran to stand trial, which has been the militants' constant demand. 
In other developments: -The State Department said the formal application of new 
U.S. economic sanctions a­gainst Iran was being delayed while diplomatic efforts contin­ued to obtain the release of the hostages. 
-Panamanian President Arist­ides Royo was quoted by his nation's television as saying the Shah can leave that country anytime he desires. Panama's Foreign Minister had said in a television interview that Pah­lavi "cannot leave Panama for obvious reasons" and that Pan­ama was, in effect, a jail for the ousted monarch. 
Meanwhile, the United States said yesterday it will not for­mally impose long promised economic sanctions against that country. 
State Department spokesman Hodding Carter explained the policy reversal by saying the administration does not want to take this step while diplomatic activity continues. 
He d1d not elaborate. 
However, reports have circu­lated in recent days indicating that Iran would be willing to release the 50 American hos­tages held in Tehran in ex­change for the establishment of a U.N. sponsored international tribunal to investigate alleged crimes of the deposed Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi 
The Neighborhood Study Help Pro~ram needs to fill several posttjons f<:'k' 1980-81. There are variou.;; o~.>tions open for any student who IS already involved and/or interested in helping to coordinate the program. For information call Sue Claus at (4-1-)-4515, John Sax at 232 0265 or Joe Witchger at 7102. 

l_ 
The Observer .. Sports Friday, February 8, 1980 .. page 13 
Sports Briefs. ____ 
Sluby signs with.ND 
Tom Sluby, a 6-4 all-Washington, D.C., Metro Conference player from Gonzaga College High, has signed an mstitutional letter-of-intent to attend Notre Dame on a basketball scholarship. 
Sluby averaged 24.3 points and 16 rebounds a game last season, and is playing at the same pace this season. 
"We didn't recruit him as a forward or a guard," said Irish coach Digger Phelps. "We requited him as a talented, versatile athlete." 
Sluby, who ar one time hit 34 consecutive free throws, last year shot 69 percent in field goals and 86 percent on free throw tries. A dean's list student, he played in several all-star games, including the All-American Classic in Akron. 
Sluby' s signing follows that ofJoe Kline, a 6-11 center from Slater, MO. 
Gymnasts fare well 
The Notre Dame/St. Mary's gymnastics team performed well in two meets last week. The men's and won1en'steams both defeated Purdue, and the women put up a strong fight despite losing to Valparaiso. 
The men's team was led in !its· victory bvall-arounderBob Meehan, who had strong efforts in the floor-exercise and vaulting. Dan Howley and Brian McLaughlin added points in the all-around, and specialists Louis DeLeon (pommell horse) and]ohn Paulik (rings) also helped the Irisfi. Dave Petrillo also aided the Irish cause on floor-ex. pommel! horse, and •vaulting. 
On the women's side, all-arounders Roberta DePiero and freshman· Stephanie Micek and Helen Cho led the Irish. Mary Seirr:'s added P.oints in floor exercise and vaulting, and Patty Larkm, J ody DtDonato, and Margaret Sulivan gave the team needed depth. 
The women's team bettered its · score by ten points at Valpo, again led by Micek, DePiero, and Cho. Coach Mark Woodford said he felt the judging was biased and I;>rotested sevt;ral scores, as Valpo won the meet by a few pomts. 
Thts Saturday the men will trav.el to Central Michigan to meet the host school, Dupage and Schoolcraft College. 
Tennis team debuts 
The finest tennis talent in the South Bend area will be assembled tonight at the South Bend Racket Club where the Notre Dame tennis team will compete for the first time in 1980 against the club's group of professionals. The exhibition match scheduled for 7 p.m. ts open to the public. 
The Irish lineup will feature freshman Mark McMahon in the number-one singles spot. The San Diego native was ranked 16th in Southern California in 1979. Behind McMahon will be the team's senior captain Carlton Harris, playing number-two. 
The experienced Irish lineup will also feature returnees Herb Hopwood (number-three), Mark Hoyer(four), Tom Hartzell (five) and Tom Robison( six), all of whom started on last year's 20-8 team. 
Sophomores Neal Chadwick and Jim Falvey algowilfjOiOiii doubles competition. . 
The racquet club will feature a formidable lineup with nationally-ranked Chris Bussert, Penn Circuit touring pro L':lke Grossman (Purdue's number-one player in 1978), Dan Btgg and Steve True (former head pros at the club), as well as teaching pros Vaughn Smith and Mike Kroo. 
Volleyball club wins 
O'Hanlon's Notre Dame volleyball club downed Northwest­
ern in the finals of the first Midwest Intercollegiate 
Volleyball Association tournament last week. 
Reacting quickly to the strong Northwestern offense, the Irish set up a strong blocking wall to score several points. Strong back-row play, sharp offensive execution, especially by Kevin Hinders, and accurate serving helped the Irish to their champlionship win. 
Wolfpack
I I I 

continued from P.16 leads the team in steals with 32. 
chance to look at a number of Joining Whitney in the front-situations. I was pleased with court is junior Art Jones, a 6-7, some things I saw and disfleas-181-pounder averaging 6.4 ed about others, but we'l have points and 3.6 rebounds per to be working out some kinks." game. 
The Wolfpack, now 15-5 over-Point guard Kenny Matthews all and 5-4 m the ACC, is led by and sharpshooter Clyde "The high-scoring forward Hawkeye Glide" Austin pair up in the Whitney of DeMatha High back court, both fine outside School (Washington, D.C.). shooters. The two have com-The senior strongman has bined for over 17 points a game scored in double figures in 93 of this season. his 109 collegiate games for a Woolridge will have his hands career average of 16.8 points full underneath against State's per game. This year, the 6-5 seven-foot center, Craig Watts, Whitney has averaged almost a 67-percent shooter from the 20 points and ·five rebounds per field and the teams' second contest, the team leader in both leading rebounder. def>artments. The ftrst-team IRISH 17BMS:Kelly Tripucka ali-ACC selection last year also 1needs just 12 more points to 
Oregon State rallies over Sun Devils 
CORVALLIS, Ore. (AP) -edged Minnesota 58-56 to re­
Ray Blume, Jeff Stoutt, and tain first place in the Big Ten Steve Johnson combined for 14 basketball race. points in overtime Thursday The Boilermakers survived a night as Oregon State rallied to last minute comeback by the stop Arizona State 82-75 in a Gophers to climb to 8-3 in basketball showdown between league play and 15-3 overall. the Pacific -10 Conference lead­
ers. Ohio State 66, Michigan 63
.The fourth-ranked Beavers regained sole possession of first COLUMBUS, OHIO (AP) ­place in the Pac-10 at 11-1 and Carter Scott's 10-foot jump shot are 21-2 overall. The 19th with 45 seconds left Thursdayranked Sun Devils fell to 10-2 in bight gave 13th ranked Ohio league and 16-5 in all games. 

State a 66-63 victory over Johnson, a 6-foot-10 1/zjunior Michigan in Big Ten basketball who paced the Beavers with 21 
play:
points and 11 rebounds, sent Ohio State lifted to 15-5 itsthe game i,nto overtime when overall record and 7-4 in theASU's 7-foot Alton Lister was conference. Michigan fell tocalled for goaltending on the 12-8 overall and 5-6 in the BigBeaver Center's five-voot hook 

Ten.
shot with nine seconds remain­mg. 

In the overtime, Stoutt and Iowa 44, Michigan State 39 Johnson gave the Beavers a quick four-point lead and the IOWA CITY, Iowa (AP) ­Sun Devils couldn't catch up as Steve 'Krafcisin scored 20 first Lister then Scott fouled points, including five in over­
out. time, to lead Iowa to a 44-39 victory over Michigan State in Big Ten basketball Thursday. 
Maryland 70, North Carolina 69 

Michigan State, 11-9 and 5-6 trailed the entire game, includ­COLLEGE PARK, Md. (AP) ­ing 8-6 at the half in theAlbert King sank four free slowdown game. 
throws in the final 14 seconds, 
Indiana 83, Northwe<otern 69 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) ­
Butch Carter pumped in 22 points and Isiah Thomas added 18 Thursday night, both keying long scoring bursts that propel­led 20th ranked Indiana to an 83-69 Big Ten Conference bas­ketball victory over North: western. 
It was the 300th career victory for Indiana Coach Bobby Knight, whose Hoosiers have never lost in 16 games against Northwestern. 
Illinois 67, Wisconsin 50 
CHAMPAIGN, lll.(AP) 
Eddie Johnson scored 19 points as Illinois came out firing in the second half and defeated Wisconsin 67-50 in a Big Ten college basketball game Thurs­day night. 
Four of Johnson's points came in a 10-point flurry that propel­led Illinois from a 30-30 half­time tie to a 40-30 edge with 11 minutes, 37 seconds left in the game. 
extending his streak to 24 in a row from the foul line, and then batted away an inbounds pass 

r Spring Breakout 1
with two seconds left to pre­
' ­
serve a 70-69 victory for sev­enth-ranked Maryland over 11­ranked North Carolina Thurs­day night. 
The victory gave Maryland a 9-1 record in the Atlantic Coast Conference and a three-game lead in the conference. 
The Terps, 17-3, led 56-45 before going. more than seven minutes without a point ·while trying to a run a controlled of­fense. The Tar Heels pulled to within 56-53 on four points apiece by Mike O'Koren and AI Wood and five times closed to within one point. 
.. 
Purdue 58, Minpesota 56 
WEST LAFAYETTE,IND. (AP) -Center Joe Barry Carroll scored 21 points before fouling out with 4:17 left in the game Thursday as 12th-rated Purdue 
• • . Pipers 
continued from p. 16 
Missy Conboy helped the Irish with 12 points, while Tricia McManus had nine. 
Sophomore Kathy Abel led Purdue-Cal with 11 points, and was the Pipers' only double­digit scorer. 
Notre Dame, now 12-5, travels to Goshen Saturday afternoon for a 1:00 contest. 

~~~~;;;;;.;,;;;.;;;;..:.;;~;;;-.;;;;~~;.;.~..;;,;;;~;;;;,;.;..;;.~~;.;..----------·· ~~-·,.. 
-
reach the 1,000-point plateau ... 
Orlando Woolrid~e has led the 
Irish in scoring m each of the 
last three games, 22 against 
Davidson, 18 versus Navy, and 
15 (tied with Tripucka) on 
Wednesday (yes, there was a 
game Wednesday!) against 
Manhattan .... tomorrow night's 
game marks the third meeting 
between the Irish and the 
W olfpack with Notre Dame 
posting a 70-59 win here in 1978 
and a nail-biting 53-52 decision 
last year in Raleigh ... because 
of the 8:00 p.m. tip-off, the 
weekend hockey series with 
Minnesota-Duluth will be a 1Saturday-Sunday afternoon af­. fair with both face-offs at 1:30 lp.m. 

South Bend to Ft.. Lauderdale Charter at $189.00 March 29-April 5 
Hotel rooms available First Bank Trave1·in Badin 

ORGANIC CHEMISTRY & CHEMICAL ENGINEERING STUDENTS 
To discuss your career potential, please register in advance at your University Placement Service Office. 
We'll be interviewing 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1980 from 8:30a.m. to 5 p.m. 

STEPAN CHEMICAL CO. 
Edens & Winnetka Northfield, lli. 60093 (312) 446-7500 
Stepan-S 
An Affirmative Action Employer m!f 



ACROSS 
4. Where can you take summer courses in Washington, D.C.? 
8. you can't refuse. 
20. What CUA offers this summer. 
DOWN 
9. Whenwill we see you at CUA' 

CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY OF AMERICA . 
P.O. Box 75 Washington, D.C. 20064 • (202) 635-5256 
Please send me a Summer School Catalogue 
(Name I. 
(Address) 
·................~.......... -·· '--... ""' ..... ---·--·--~-----­

The Observer -SportsBoard Friday, February 8, 1980 -page 14 
Pigeons by Jim McOure/Pat Byrnes 


Molarity by Michael Molinelli 

ACROSS 26 Very hard 1 Pitch tents 29 Sudden 5 Celtic collapse 
singing 32 Handle a 
poets baton 10 Hairdo 33 Makes an 14 Jai-effort 15 Bathsheba's 34 Have 


first reality 16 Futile 35 Frees 17 Imparted 36 Caprice 
18 Ache or 37 Angry dog laugh sound 19 Queenly 38 Dorothy name Hamill's 20 Costume milieu party 39 Horse or 22 Plays the common banjo 40 Slogan 23 What war is 41 Necessarily 24 Verdi's 43 Hair treat-land ments 

The Daily Crossword 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
All Rights Reserved 


44 
45 
46 
48 53 
54 
55 
56 
57 
58 
59 60 61 
2 
3 
4 
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
Soft, as feathers Desert-like Cowboy's accessories Embroidery Streak with color Maintain 
Take-the lam Clumsy vessels Navigation hazards In-(com­pletely) Ant or gnat Peasants Jropic topic 
DOWN Kill the fatted-Epithet of Athena Thomas or Horace Number 7 irons Champagne Of a region Brook Flirtation Shrink Helps A dandy Bowling green area 
13 21 
22 
25 
26 · 27 
28 
29 30 
31 
33 36 37 39 40 42 43 45 46 47 49 
50 
51 
52 
54 

UNIVERSITY OF PITI'SBURGH GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS 
PITTSBURGH, the third-largest corporate headquarters in the nation, is a dynamic environment for graduate study in business. _ Our time-frame is dynamic too -an accelerated, 11-month M"PA. 
PfiTSBURGH MEANS BUSINESS. 
For more information, write or call: 
Director of Admissions, GSB 
University of Pittsburgh 
1401 Cathedral of Learning 
Pittsburgh, PA 15260 
(412) 624-6400 

~ ............... ., ............... ""' .... _•.• , ............. ~.ill·,\·-··· ..-.... --­
, 

Hockey 
WCHA STANDINGS 

w  l  T  PCT  
North Dakota  13  6  .675  
Michigan  10  7  1  .583  
NOTRE DAME  11  9  0  .550  
Minnesota  11  11  0  .542  
Colorado Col.  12  11  1  .521  
Michigan Tech  9  9  2  .500  
Wisconsin  11  13  0  .500  
Michigan State  9  15  0  .409  
Minn.-Duluth  9  11  0  .375  
Denver  6  11  .361  

This Weekend Fri.-Sat. 
Denver at North Dakota Minnesota at Wisconsin Sat.-Sun. 
Michigan Tech at Michigan UMD at NOTRE DAME 
Thursday's N H l Scores 
Boston 8, Toronto 6 Buffalo 9, Pittsburgh 0 Montreal 4, Colorado 3 NY Islanders 4, Los Angeles 1 Vancouver 4, Philadelphia 1 
Basketball 

IRISH 79, PIPERS 38 PURDUE-CALUMET (38)--Deltoro 3 2-2 B,Ramirez 1 2-4 4, Goginsky 3 1-3 7, Palmateer 1 2-4 4. Abel 5 1-311, Herring 1 
2-5 4.  Totals 14 10-21 38.  
NOTRE  DAME  (79)--Hicks  2  4-8  8,  
McManus  4 1-2  9,  Politiski  7 0-2  14,  

Cashman 3 0-0 6, Lally 2 1-2 5, Conboy 6 0-0 12, liebscher 1 0-0 2, Antolik 1 0-4 2, Matvey 9 3-3 21. Totals 35 9-21 79. 
Halftime score--Notre Dame 32, Purdu\?­Calumet 26. 
Fouled out: Goginsky, McManus. 
Total fouls: Purdue-Calumet 19, Notre Dame 24. 
Big Ten 
Illinois 67, Wisconsin 50 Indiana 83, Northwestern 69 Iowa 44. Michigan State 39 (OT) Ohio State 66. Michigan 63 Purdue 58, Minnesota 56 
Elsewhere 
E. Carolina 86, S. Carolina 84 Florida St. 55, Memphis St. 54, 4or lei! LaSalle 75, Hofstra 61 Maryland 70, North Carolina 69 
New Mexico 80, Col. St. 79 (OT) New Mexico St. 91. W. Texas St. 75 
N.C. 
Charlotte 83. New Orleans 78 Oregon State 82. Arizona State 75 (OT) 

S. 
Alabama 94, Ga. Southern 79 SW Louisiana 69. NW Louisiana 56 S. Illinois 72, Drake 67 




Singles College cheer Buddies Chair arm cover Dismantle Doubly Waterfowl Uptight Furious Pianist Peter and others Not tied down Maidenhair, for one "-the Wind" Dissemi­nates Like spongy earth 
Lumber source Pupil's preference Extinguish Hit Cut off Curing --­agent Sioux Indian Roster Scout's concern -longa, vita brevis 
--------------------------------------------------~--~----------------------------------..


•, ~ .. ,.. _.. ­
:.•. *'-~--~ 


All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad Is run. The Obslmr office wfl accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to'5;00 p.m. All classlfieds must be pre-paid, either In person or througn the mall. 
r. ­
Notices 
SPRING BREAK Daytona Trip -Bus Transportation with hotel -$199 Drive'n save for $99 Drive'n save to Ft. Lauderdale-$109 6 days -5 nights with extra days available Limited space! for informa­tion Call Ken 283-1387 
Typing -Experienced in dissertations essays, term papers. Selective type­writer. 232-5715 
HEY CALIFORNIANS! We need more delegates for the Mock Convention. Call Paul at 3402 
Tomorrow night -Lafortune Ballroom -CRYSTAL PLAYS ROCK N ROLL 
Lost&Found 
FOUND: Timex Quartz watch Monday nile during B-ball game in front of library. Call 8725 to identify. 
Lost: Light-blue Adidas ,Jogging Jacket lost in or around 0' Laughlin/ Moreau at SMC. If found please call 8565 (N D) Mary Beth. 
Lost: Gold CROSS PEN Initials 
H. K.A. If found please phone 1373. 
Lost: 4 keys on Fighting Irish leprechaun key chain. Call 232-7411 
Lost: Before Christmas break -a silver, folding music stand. Please call Carol #3848. 
Lost: Swiss Army knife probably in 
Niewland or O'Shag. REWARD Rich 
6721 
Lost: 4 keys on maroon leather keychain, in or around Senior Bar on Fri., Jan. 25th. Reward Call #6240. 
Lost: Silver Necklace with Black Coral at ACC. If Found Call Mike-1813 
Lost: Set of 7 keys on chain with penknife. Call Mike 3662 
Lost: Opal Stickpin around noon Jan 22 probably near South Dining Hall. Call 233-8672. 
Lost: Brown suede gloves with white lining-Possibly at South Dining Hall. Please Call Mark at 1764 before I freeze. 
Lost: One gold bracelet. Square with a clasp. Has engravings. Katie SMC 4519 
Lost between Stephan Parking lot and Grace Hall a pair of glasses in a brown or green case. Reward offered. Please call Mike 1782. 
Lost: Glasses. Highly attractive SMC sophmore cannot see herself in the mirror. They had a gold frame and square tinted lenses. If you have seen them please call Colleen at 4-1-4374, She'll make it worth your while. 
Lost: Blue Backpack. Missing from North Dining Hall (Lunch) Feb. 4th. FRANTIC!! Need contents! Call 288-5465. No questions asked. 
Lost Ring. If you found N D ring in Hayes-Healy please see Lost and Found or me at 005 Fisher. 283-1877. 
For Rent 
Furnished room with bath/shower, kitchen, den, and laundry priveledges. Quiet, near campus. Call 232-6181 or 
289-8651 for details. 
!Wanted 
Need ride to Ft. Wayne any Friday. 
Chris 1609. 
Any parents driving from Conn. area for Junior Parents' Weekend, my parents would share the ride. Call Pete 1745.-------------­WANTED one refrigerator to rent for the semester. Call 7850 
Overseas Jobs -Summer/year round. Euope, S. Amecica, Australia, Asia Etc. All fields, $500-$1,200 monthly. Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free 

info. write IJC Box 52-14 Corona Del Mar, Ca. 92625 
I need a ride to Iowa Feb. 16 or any weekend. Call Mark 1388 
Need Ride to Columbus, Ohio this weekend, Feb 8th. Call Beth 41-4156 
Will pay student, experienced in fortran programming, to install (with minor modifications) existing fortran program into Notre Dame computer. Call-3572. 
For Sale 
For Sale Pair k.L.H. 103 stereo wpeakers. Still under warranty. Call John 233-6370 
Accoustic Research 2ax speakers. 3 way, one year old. $200 pair. 4-1-5187 
For Sale: Pioneer TP-252 8-track under-dash tape player. George 1722 
"Hey IRAN" defiance T-shirts available $5 phone 1866 for details. 
'79 Jeep CJ-7 Renegate, PS, AT, Clased Bod)', excellent condition. Near wholesale price 272-6116. 
FLASH: Photographic equipment for sale --fantastic bargains! --cameras, lenses. Call 232-4129 
Tickets 
Nobody has called me for NC State tickets. I will be shot if I don't get 2-4 GA's. For family 
call Rob 21 06 .. soon 

Must have Dayton (5) and NC State (1) tix!! Please Help. 41-5710 
Need 4or 5 Marquette Tix!! Call Gigi at 6868 
Need 4 G.A's to N.C. State or Marquette. Will Pay Good$. Call Joe at 3439. 
Need 4 GA 's for San Francisco. Pay top$. Dennis 8705 
Need 2 GA and 2 student DePaul tickets-call Lar'ry Hau -1049 
NEED N.C. STATE B-BALL TIX CALL TIM 287-4&2:t 
----------~----
DePaul Tickets-Alumnus will pay big bucks for 4 G.A. Call collect Paul Fullmer 312-724-8405 · 
Need GA and STUDENT tix for N.D. 
vs. even Marquette b-ball. Call ings at 288-5891.  John  
Will  Pay  Mega  $$$  tor  2  G.A.  

Marquette tickets. Karen 6798 
NEED tickets to the Marquette Game on the 24th of Feb. Mike #8501 
I need 2 GA B-ball tickets to any home game. Will pay your price.· Anna (SMC) 5322 
Desperately need 2-3 N.C. State 
B. B. tix. G.A., Please Call Dan or Bob 3324 
In desperate need of 6 G.A. tix for 
N.C. State Call John at 1109 
Need GA N.C. State Tix. Call Larry8693 
NEED 2 or more tickets to any basketball game. Mark 1764 
FREE MONEY for 3-4 MARQUETTE GA's Need desparately. Call Kevin 1602 
DAYTON GA's DAYTON GA's DAYTON GA's DAYTON GA's DAYTON GA's I naed'em-Mick8212 
Need 2 DePaul tix. Money no object
Call8605 
Want 2 G.A. N.C. State tickets. Call 7930 
Need 3 Marquette GA tix. ANY price. 
Call Dave 1133. 
Desprately need Marquette GA ti:. your price. Call Sean 3114 
Big BUCKS FOR Marquette tickets. Call Mary or Anne 6751 
Need 2 GA tickets for Marquette-Call John 1840 
Need 2tickets to San Francisco game. 
Call Mary Margaret, 3605. 
Need 2 N.C. State GA tix. Call1198 or 4593 
Need 2 Marquette GA's. Will pay well. Call George at 8543, from 10:00 to 12:00 P.M. 
I need one Marquette GA Chris 8545 
·Need either two DePaul or two 
Marquette GA 's. Big Bucks. Karl 
1461 
For Sale-Remainder of season student B-ball ticket. Best student seat available. Best offer. Mike -1859 
HELP ! Need 2 student or G.A. tix to DePaul. Call Kathy #6793 or Mike #3462. 
Need 2 GA NC State tix. Nick 233-6249 
Big Bucks: 2or 4 DePaul Tickets. Call 
(312) 372-7399 Collect. 9-5, ask for Alex Deviance. 
Need student and GA tix for DePaul b-ball game. Paul 3121 
Need GA tx to any home b-ball game. 
Paul 3121 
Help! My brother Is leading a band of warriors down. for the Marquette game. I need many tickets. Call 8300. 
Personals 
Dear John Dean-
You are hereby subpoenaed for 
dinner at Doc Pierce's (court dates to 
be arranged). Special Investigators 
have been assigned to this case, 
should you fail to comply with this 
order. -Keep it quiet around Mo. 
-Anita Bryant 
LIKE TO SKI? So do we, but we're stuck on the flats of N.D. If you provide the transpo, we'll provide $$ and scintillating company. Week­nights or weekends. Call Erin at 1264 or Lynne at 1254. 
Singing Valentines coming soon I The perfect little gift 
Mike, Glad ·you're here. We're going to have the best time ever. Wood-man 
P.S. Did you bring a pack of cigarettes? 
Rick, Break a leg, but watch those toes! Jana 
Indiana University Ski Club cordially invites HC, NO and SMC students to a Traverse City weekend on Feb. 29­March 2. One day of great skiing at Timbarlee, one at the mammoth Schuss Mtn. 2 nights deluxe lodging at the Traverse City Days Inn. Lifts and Lodge $30.00! All taxes and tips included. Deadline Feb. 13. Details:? Call David Nagy 259-1378. 
Wish Diane "What a Woman" Cherney APPY BIRTH DAY ON Sat. 
Sarin 315 -the turret of destiny ­renews its hedonistic practices tomor· row night... Sister hedonists are welcomed 
Happy 21st Patrick!! Hope you have a wild time! Love, Shindu 
To the cast of the ND-SMC Ballet: "All you ever needed was the music and the mirror, and the chance to dance." From the theatre people to the dance people -Bon Chance at casse una tambell! 
Tess, Happy 20th! Knock'em Dead on the 17th! Jana and Anne 
Happy Birthday Bob Krieg 
TAH Happy Valentine's Day and happy five months MJN 
R.F.H. Here's to passing your 
"quizziR" with flying colors! P.O.B-"S.W." 
Michael, Happy Birthday! Hope that You have a great day! Love, Mary 

Cos-
Best of Luck Saturday night in your 
performance. I'm so proud of you, 
even though we didn't get to be 
roomates. 
·Love, 
An Elder 

King COS, I'm sure you 'II get whats comming to you. Happy Birthday, Pulsar 
NAZZ NEXT WEEK ... Catch the move to Mardi Gras: 
Monday-Wednesday, February 11-13. Watch for names! 
AL-ANON SUPPORT GROUPS -8:00 PM every Sunday -Saint Mary's Student Government Office 
Dan 

Wanna play in the snow? Remember, if I go, you go too! Happy Birthday! 
Love, Shelia 
Birthday kisses for Susie Lanman, Sunday. Call 4353 SMC. 
Help! I won't be able to go anywhere for Spring Break unless I get 2 Marquette student tickets 
Call: Pat 4754 
ATTENTION NOTRE DAME GYMNASTS 
THAT'S BOB, BOB, DAN, JOHN, STEVE, DAVE, MIKE, BRIAN, ED, AND LEWIS· SINCE I KNOW YOU ARE DEEPLY WOUNDED THAT I WON'T BE ABLE TO MAKE IT TO YOUR MEET THIS WEEKEND, I AM STILL GOING TO WISH YOU GUYS GOOD LUCK. SO, GOOD LUCK, SMILE, STRETCH, SELL, STAY TIGHT AND POINT YOU'R TOES! 
BERTA 

P.S. WOULD YOU RATHER HAVE ME GO OR HAVE MY GORGEOUS SMILE BACK? 
Two Zoo Regina N. 
Thanks for the great Birthday dinner at Bill Knapps and also for the nice welcome-You are the best 
Love Lisa #4 
Attention Photohraphers of Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Community. The Observer Features Dept is seeking photowaphs that represent the spirit and life of the college for possible upcoming "Midpoint." Those wish­ing to contribute can leave any black and white print at the Observer office c/o Kathy Connelly. Please put name, year, and other pertinent Information on back of photos. Upon completion of "Midpoint" photos will be made available for return. For more info call John at 3106 or Kathy at 7471. 
Singing Valentines almost here! Get your orders ready 
S. Dining Hall: 
Your salt shakers are history. Guns 
Eleven major Midwest Colleges and Universities compete Feb. 8th and 9th in COLLEGE BOWL'S REGIONAL IX COMPETITION. SMC Little Theatre Friday 7-10 and Saturday 9-noon and 1:30-4:30 
Hippo Birdie two awe? 
Mary Pat, Karen, Kathy and every­one, Thanks for the teriflic birthday and party. Sorry I was a little late. You guys are terrific (a little crazy) but real sweeties. Thanks tons-you made my day. 
Love Lisa 
Julie B. Happy Birthday! Love Joanne and Melinda 
Diane, 
Happy 21st! May your life be filled with an endless supply of peanut M&M's and tuna casseroles! 
Love, KHB 
Bubbles, 
Such the socialite! How do you keep them all straight? Thanks for keeping me informed!! 
The Society Editor 
Steve Stetz and Jeff Nelson­Are you up for competition? Arousingly, Bob Blount 
Dial-A-Throat Call 1681 
------------~-­
To my Knight in Shining armor: 
I am psyched-big-HUGE for a grea\ 
weekend. The long awaited spazzling 
out in Indiana has finally arrived! 
Love ya babe. 
your princess Bart and all concerned. 
The unimaginative personal placed by the pseudo-"freshmen duo" has caused us an insulting case of mista'ken Identity. We would have been much more explicit. 
The Decadent Dynamic Duo from 3rd floor Lewi~ 
Watch Out Senior Bar­"Shave" is 21 Happy Birthday! 
The FUBAR Welcomes Wally for Friday's Happy Hour. Be there. Aloha. Three I.D.'s required.Tra-la-la-la-la. 
Mr. Norberg, 
How could anyone get so drunk that they would Imagine they were Pat McNally? 
Marcia Timko, The girl who put beaver county on the map is accepting birthday wis!1es and congratulations today. Give her a call. #3850 
Love Is: A "Singing Valentine" 
Sponsored by NO Chorale-Glee Club by phone: $.50 at door: $2.00 at supper, ND-SMC Dining Halls Feb­ruary 11-12. 
Janie Byrne V.P. committee urges all pillars and stalwarts to protest the Chicago Tribune's treatment of the next V.P. ' 
PARIS ANYONE? American passports and Englishcigarettes required 
Janie Byrne V.P.* committee now accepting contributions --cash only please 
Tomorrow is Yogi-Boo-Boo-Bear Butler's birthday. Who cares, right?! Goebel 
Notice to 321 Dillon Again! 
The actions for which we have been accused are false. However, necro Is not condemned by the Dr. of Love! Those accusations were made out of pure jealousy. By the way Bobber, has Hose really been teaching you the right hand rule. 
Bakes and Z 
' Anyone interested in contributing some photos for a possible college life "Midpoint" should contact Kathy Connelly at 7471 or John McGrath at 31:J6. 
---------~-----­
AHUFFADUNGA, ABROCKDUNGA, ADOCHADUNGA, AKOTTAADUN GA and McGuire. 
Hey Ceil! Sorry about your toe. Get well soon. 
Shotgun, Truce! 
I. Surrender 
Kevin Scope, 
Is it really your birthday, or was I given false information? If It Is "put your hands up in the air, and party hardy, like ya just don't care!" 
Birthday kisses at a later date, · Kim 
M.H.­Pate Is NeatII II II II I! !II II I! II II II !I!I 
LA WOMAN-
Break on through to LaFortune Tomorrow nita, 9PM and see Crystal play classic ROCK AND ROLLI! [No cans or bottles, please] 
SENIORS -FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO MISSED THE WORKSHOP THAT COULD LAND YOU A !/*???*??? JOB -here's another chance. Another resume workshop is being held Feb. 12 at 6 p.m. in the Student Affairs Conference Room, career Deve~opment Center, SMC. 
Mike T., Good luck on your wrestling match Saturday! 
Guess Who? 
Patti, Happy Weekend! Mike 
Bob, Thanks for all your help. 
LADIES, Sorln 315 cordially Invites you to pertlcl­pate In a memorable Saturday evening. 
John, Enjoy your last 100 days!!! Carol 
The grapevine has It that Mike Galvin doesn't do drugs any more??? Ia that true?? Abuse filr abuse. 
Supardruga 
------------~ 
. I 
j 
1 



Friday, February 8, 1980 -page 16
SRQrts 
leers shoot for second place 
by Bnan Beglane (15-12 overall) and have risen selves. Ifwe don't, we could fall Sports Writer from a tie for sixth to third in quire a bit. The WCHA is that their last two weeks of play. close and you really can never 
While the Notre Dame hockey Duluth is in ninth place in the tell just what is going to happen ream reached a milestone for WCHA with a 9-15 mark (11-17 any weekend." coach Lefty Smith last weekend overall) and finds itself in a Senior Glenn Kulyk leads the 
against Wisconsin, one import-fight to stay in contention for Bulldogs in scoring with 15 ant objective remained our of irs one of the last playoff spots (the goals and 29 assists for 44 grasp --second place in the top eight stay alive at the end of points. Bill Oleksuk and Scott Western Collegiate Hockey the regular season). Four weeks Cariston follow with 40 and 36 Association. remain of the regular schedule. pomrs, respectively, while Dan The Irish gave Smith his 200th "We were in rhe position of Lempe totals 33. Junior Bill 
career win at Notre Dame with p kl h Jd b
controlling our own destiny," er s ou e rh goalie both 
a 4-3 victory in the opener said Smith, "but we failed to games.
against the Badgers, but ld 
. d h . k capitalize on a go en opportun-Irish senior Greg Meredith,
mtsse t e opportumty to ta e k D c · b k 
· h WCHA ity last wee · erenstve rea -the team's leading scorer with
over secon d pIace m t e d h d owns cost us t e secon game 47 points, will be attempting toby losing the next afternoon . . , , against Wtsconstn. take over second place on the7-5. The loss snapped a fitve­
game win streak. UMD appears to have been in all-time Irish goal scoring list. 
The Irish, however, will need the same boar last week at The native ofToronto, Ont., has some help from Michigan Tech home against Colorado College. scored 26 this season and totals this weekend when they try to The Bulldogs took. the first 90 in his career. He needs three take second once again. Notre game 7-3, bur allowed the more to surpass Ian Williams. Dame will play host to Min-Tigers to score six unanswered Eddie Bumbacco is the top nesora-Dulurh at the ACC this goals in the third period in the career goal scorer with 103. Saturday and Sunday afternoon second contest and lost 7-2· If the Irish cannot take second beginning at 1:30 each day "We still are in the position of place this weekend or if they at while the Huskies will play at being able to control our own least stay in contention, the S<"cond place Michigan (10-7-1). destiny," says Smith. "We can showdown for second place will 
The lrtsh skate into this week-move to second place if we get occur next weekend when they end's series with the Bulldogs the breaks from the other travel to Ann Arbor to play the MacPhail extends offer on A's sporting an 11-9 league record games and perform w~~~--~ ~9_Iverines. 
NEW YORK (AP) -The by the AL, the NL's San
~======~======~====~==~ 
American League agreed Thur­Francisco Giants, A's owner sday to an Oakland Coliseum Charles 0. Finley and Marvin Commission request that the Davis, who wants to buy the
Irish host Wolfpack, Whitney 
AL extend until next Tuesdy the ream and move it to Denver. League's offer of $4 million for 
Asked if the requested dead­by Michael Ortman 67-62 decision in Raleigh. month, all of Notre Dame's the release of the Oakland A's line extension meant the coli­Sports Wn"ter ''Norrh Carolina State is a very players will be dressed and from their lease. 

commission

good basketball ream," says ready to go. Between Kelly League President Lee Mac­seum appeared 
Irish coach Digger Phelps. Tripucka's back, Gil Salinas' ready to do business, MacPhail
Remember the last time an Phail stressed that the request replied: "The situation out thereArlanric Coast Conference team "They've been overlooked be­ankle, John Paxson's hip, Rich for the extension to February 12 is so confused that I couldn'tvisited-Notre Dame. The cause they play in the Atlantic Branning's wrist, Orlando at 5 p.m. PST, was made by hazard a guess on whether orconference leading Maryland Coast Conference where Mary­Woolridge':h~elt, and, oh yes, theColis.P.W.l and that baseball not they' 11 be able to meet ourTerapins scared the dickens out land, Duke, and North Carolina Marc Kelly's calf muscle, agreed to it. "We could have rime deadline.
of the Irish faithful, but a Tracy have taken all the headlines." Digger's hair has been turning taken the offer off the table at Jackson bucker with five se­The Irish will be going up gray quite rapidly. "Losing any time," he said. The coliseum also is in danger
conds left gave Notre Dame against one of the roughest these players for a few games MacPhail said the $4-million 
of losing the National Football another ho-hum finish and a defensive teams in the nation. probably helped us prepare for offer to free the A's from the Leagu-e's Oakland Raiders, 64-63 win. The Wolfpack has give up just post-season play a bit,'' says rest of their long-term contract whose lease has expired. The 
Although tomorrow night'sfoe 62.6 points per game and have Phelps, "since we got the is ''a total settlement,'' involv­Raiders are seeking to move to for the Irish may not be quite held each of irs last 14 oppo­continued on p.13 ing money which would be paid Los Angeles. as formidable as the Terps, nents under 69 points. ''They you· d better keep the pacemak­play a quick pressure defense ers on stand-by. North Carolina which has gtven us fits all Falls to 9-8 
season long," says Phelps. For the first time in almost a
~~~~/~J~~~~~~~~~~=::_,_t~--~------~~ ~ 
---------"="---..:-=--~~-~___;;,;,_;;,_-=--==:...=
------St. Mary's defeated by Goshen 
Facility. The loss dropped the buckets by Goshen knotted the
by Kelly Sullivan 

Belles to 9-8 for the season. · game at 37 points a piece only 
Second half surge leads 
Sports Wn"ter 

Sr. Mary's took a four point · 40 seconds into the period. The lead early in the game, expan­two teams battled evenly until
An incredible 70 percent

Notre Dame over Pipers 
ded it to eight points, and the 15 minute mark, when the
shooting performance in· the 

fought off an explosive Goshen Maple Leafs took the lead for
second half carried visitingby Paul Mullaney minutes, the Irish regrouped to Goshen College to an 81-70 attack to go into the lockeroom the first time 43-41 and never Assistant Sports Editor run away with the contest in the victory over St. Mary's last ahead by a 37-33 margin. looked back. last half. They scored 11 of the night at the Angela Athletic In the second half, two quick Trish Albrecht paced the visi­After struggling to gain a first 13 points, and never looked 
tors with her game high 26 six-point halftime advantage, back. Purdue-Cal was simply points and Julie Froes came off 
Notre Dame outscored Purdue­outclassed. 
the bench to contribute 22 

Calumet, 47-12, in the second ''We just got our heads toge­pomts.half ro claim a 79-38 women's ther and got back to the 
The success of Goshen's fast

basketball victory last night fundamentals,'' said Petro. 
break play proved to be thebefore a sparse crowd at the They also got scoring. produc­Belle's downfall, as the victorsACC. tion from all nine players in stretched their lead by as muchThe Irish and Pipers did little uniform. Freshman Shari Mat­as 15 points late in the period.

more than exchange buckets for vey, a starter all season long, most of the first half. Sheila was benched at the start of the ·'They managed to get the ball Liebscher's rebound bucket five game and still managed to lead up court quickly and that didn't minutes before the intermission the victors with 21 points. allow us rime to set our defen­gave rhe Irish only their second Senior Jane Politiski, who in­se," explained Sr. Mary's kad of the game, 22-21, but stead got the starting assign­Coach Jerry Dellassio. ''I'm wach Sharon Perro's quintet me:nt 111 the pivot, added •14 very impressed with the way never relinquished that advan­pomts. they played--especially their 
r:.~ge. 

"I just think that Jane, based passing game.'' "\X'e were a litrle surprised on the way she's been playing, The Belles were led by fresh­when they came our and held belongs in the starting posi­man sensation Anne Arm­the ball as long as they coulc tion," said Petro. "Shari needs strong's 24 points, all on field 
bd(Jre the 30-second clock expi some work on defense. She's goals. Freshman Maureen red," offered Perro, whose got to work on the denial King and Mary Pat Siltingronsquad rook a 32-36 lead into the man-to-man defense we play." poured in 12 points a piece.;ocker room at the half. Matvey, who only played 24 ''We've got to regroup and get·'We've never run across a minutes, gave no indication our confidence up a little bit," stall game before, and we got that she needed any more work. noted Dellassio. "We've got frustrated. We had no pat­In addition to her 21 points, she five games left before the ience, and fell asleep on ~efen­pulled down a game~high 15 tournament--it we can get three se. We wanted to speed It up, rebounds, dished our three or four more wins we'll be in
A tenacious lnsh defense heldPurdue-Calumet to just 12 second
and we rushed it." assists, and blocked five shots. good shape. '' 
half points as the Notre Dame women dumped the Pipers. 
While coach Letty Foutch's The Belles hose St. Francis of
continued on p.13 [photo by Tim McKeogh].

strategy worked in the initial_ 20 Ft. Wayne next Monday at 7:00 
-

-
~-"j. :.t. ••
' ..• ! ~ :. : ~ 




