--~~ -----------~ --­
' Terrorism -page 4
' ' 

VOL. XV, No. 36 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 'THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1980 
-

Parent suggests program 
By Mary Agnes Carey 
A complete awareness of the total off-campus situation by both Notre Dame students and administration officials was stressed by South Bend Mayor Roger Parent last night in Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's as part of the SMC Political Week activities. 
According to Parent, the "northeast situation," the phrase used to describe the recent concern of rising off-campus crime, is perceived differently by the students involved, the permanent residents of the area, and by the ND administration. "When the students think about the problem of the northeast situation," Parent explained, "they usually think about it as the crime situation. When the permanent residents think about the situation, 
' they think about it as the student problem (trash, garbage, and noise caused by students) ... w~e,n Notre Dame thinks about the problem, uslfally 1t s silent. That may be the best indicator about what they (the administration) think of the problem. Parent stated that the problem "will only be resolved by all the parties getting together and working it out." Parent, who was a city councilman for the northeast area of South Bend for eight years 
' before he was elected mayor, explained that problems which existed in the area during his term as councilman have stil not been resolved Parent suggested an "ongoing program" which involves an organization of off-campus students, permanent area residents, and other ND-SMC students meeting to discuss problems of off­campus students. Parent stated that neither ND administration or South Bend city officials should be voting members of the organization. "Students have a right to expect decent and safe housing,'' Parent explained, "and the prime organizations responsible for that are the 

Student Forum 


Riehle urges change 
By Earl Rix 
Citing the "gross inadequacy" of student government,Student Body Pre&ident Paul Riehle cal­led on students to vote for the creation of a Student Senate in a referendum to be held Tuesday. Riehle, speaking at a student 
forum last night in the basement of Walsh Hall, also announced that the proposed Senate will have 1 H members instead of the originally proposed 24. 
Originally, the referendum as to be held today, but was post­poned so that "we could make sure everybody knew what they were voting for," Riehle ·said. Riehle's original proposal called for twice as many on-campus student representatives, 12,but was pared down to six because "a ~enate of 24 people seems too unwieldy. Eighteen people 
·eems better," according to 
iehle. 
Riehle also noted that the last 
tudent Senate, which was 
tbolished in 1972 after failing to 
nake a quorum in seven of its 
·ina! eight meetings, was too 
arge to be effectivewith a 
nembership of 41 students. 
"I'm amazed the present 
ructures have lasted as long as 
hey have,'' Riehle said. "The 
oard of Commissioners has 
ever done anything except University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College." Parent expressed concern that "adequate forms of recreation" should also be provided for ND-SMC students. "It's appalling to me that Notre Dame forbids students from having kegger parties, but looks very lightly on the large parties thrown on the northeast side which create all kinds of problems for not only the permanent residents, but also students as well," Parentstated. 

He explained that although police are "attempting to pay particular attention to the vulnerability of students" in the northeast area, many of the programs are limited by the lack of financial resources, adding that off-campus students must be concerned about their own personal welfare. • 
During the one-hour presentation, Parent also discussed the frustrations of students and the general public with government. According to Parent, people are interested in running for office because they are "frustrated and disappointed" with the "lack ofpower" elected officials possess. Parent noted the difficulty of officials to unite different concerns of special interest groups, stating that these concerns must be"reflected and catered to." 
Parent also expressed the importance of a voter's total accessibility of a political candidiate, stressing that a successful candidiate needs not only intelligence and a desire for hard work, but also an understanding of people's feelings and emotions. Parent also said that activities such as Political Week help voters to think about political development and he encouraged students to 
pursue politics, terming it  an  "important and  
difficult" occupation.  
In  a  question  and  answer  period,  Parent  

addressed students' conc~rns on several issues. [continued on page 7] 
meet about twice a year and The senior president also allocate student funds. Many of criticized the CLC, which in­its members are heads of their 
cludes onlx nine students out of own organizations and are 19 members. "All the other preoccupied with that." members of the CLC have their 
Riehle pointed out that own organizations with direct "acording to a recent Observer input to the University, except poll, 45 percent of the students the students," Riehle comment­do not know what the Board is. ed."It's so frustrating because Yet, under our present constitu­we've nel er beenuble to develop tion, they are student govern­
ment." [continued on page 5] 

Mayor Roger Parent speaks at Moreau Hall. (Photo by Linda Shannahan) 
Anderson borrows money for television commercials 
. ' 
WASHINGTON (AP)-JohnB. Andersoh will begin run­ning his first television ads ofthe fall presidential campaign this week and they will be paid for by money borrowed from his hun­dreds ofthousands ofsupporters nationwide. 
The ads, which will emphaize 

Anderson's stand on various issues, will be aired on network television using $1 million in funds being raised by an unusual direct mail appeal. 
J 

Weeks ago, the independent presidential candidate's lawyers began trying to borrow between $10 million and $15 million from a group of banks in New York and Chicago. The money was to be paid back from retroactive federal fundingfor which Anderson will be eligible if he receives 5 percentof the vote in 
U.S. offers to give surveillance information to friendlyMiddle Eastern countries 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The United States has offered to provide surveillance information to friendly countries in the Persian Gulf region to lessen the threat of air attacks resulting from the ~ar between Iraq and Iran. 
The State Department said yesterday the data being made available to the neutral countries is being gathered by four air­borne radar command planes sent to Saudi Arabia last week to protect oilfields and other installations from any spillover from the war. 
These planes, known as Trattner said the purpose was to A WACs, have a surveillance help meet "legitimate defense rangeof250 to 350 miles and can needs~' of friendly countries. monitor much of the strategic \~t was learned that the Persian Gulf region from Saudi countries involved in the offer Arabian or international air­are Kuwait, Oman and the space. United Arab Emirates. Both 
Their principal function is to Kuwait and the shiekdoms spot flights of attack planes comprising the UAE are major heading for neutral countries in oil producers. the region before they reach 
Deputy Secretary of State their targets. 
Warren M. Christopher, in a In announcing the U.S. offer speech Tuesday in Boston, said to share surveillance information the administration is ready to 
with other countries not in­supply aid to friendly· govern­volved in the war, State 
ments that feel threatened by the J:?epartment spokesman]ohn H. war. 
the November 4 election. 
Five percent of the votewould entitle him to $3 million, with the amount going up with tbe size of the vote. 
But banks have been unwilling to commit themselves.Some money-less than $3million­was promised, but only if other banks would agree to increase the total. 
It now appears that at best Anderson will be able to borrow much less than his campaign strategists had hoped. There is some possibility that he will get no bank loans at all. 
President Carter's campaign aides circulated a memo 
questioning the legality of the loans and Anderson campaign officials say the banks were threatened with regulatory retribution if they agreed to the borrowing effort. 
Patrick ]. Lucey, Anderson's 
vice presidential running mate, was asked yesterday if any money would be borrowed from the banks, and would say only that, "We are hopeful." 
Meanwhile, Anderson's cam· paign sent out 200,000 letters to pe·rsons who had previously contributed money. 
The letters requested interest­freeloans to be paid backafter election day in loan coupons included in the envelope. 
Those who responded loaned Anderson an average of $83 compared to a $30 per average contribution earlier in the campaign. 
On Tuesday, the loan proram 
drew $175,000, ami it is eve"ntually expected to raise $1 million or more to be paid back after November 4. 
[continued on page 7] 
.. 


News Briejj 
Thursday, October 9, 1980 • page 2 

~~~~====~~==========================~ 
by The OhsPrver and The Associated Press 

J\n attt7mpted robbery of a woman walkmg to theO Hare-Grace graduate residence area at 9:45 
p. fn.last night was aborted when the thief was frightenedby a passing motorist. Notre Dame security officialssaid the· man, described as 5'7" in height, weighingl40 pounds and wearing a· brown corduroy jacket, jumped from bushes near the Bulla Shed and demanded the woman's purse. He ran from the scene when the motoristapproached, and the woman continued to 
her  residence  where she called the Security Office.-The  
Ohserver  t  
'-....  

Chrysl~r Corp. offi~ialShaveagreedto arrange a meetmg between board chatrman Lee Iococca and Gov. Otis R. Bowen to discuss the No. 3 automaker's plans to <;ell its New Castle foundry, Bowen aide William]. Watt said yesterday. Bowen sent a strongly worded telegram to Iacocca on Tuesday, demanding "an immediate and _detailed response from Chrysler outlining its specific plans for the New Castle installation and for the employees who work there. In addition, I want a full accounting of Chrysler's intentions with regard to ( the facilities and employees at its other installations in the state of Indiana." The governor was concernedthat Chrysler, by its decision to sell the New Castle foundry along with four other Michigan plants, had violated the terms of a $32 million loan guarantee agreement with Indiana. -AP 
Toxic ammonia e:as leaking from a ruptured pipe at a railroad loading pla'ff'orm was sent billowing over the northern outskirts of Mexico City yesterday, killing nine people and injuring at least four, a Red Cross spokesman said. The Red Cross said there may be me -e casualties. Police 
•111d other authorities immediately cordoned off the area and began evacuations. The line burst while the ammonia gaJ was being unloaded from a railroad tank car onto pressurizt;d tank trucks in Xalostoc, an industrial suburb of the Mexican 
capital. -AP 

The Nobel Prize in literaturefor 1980 will be announced tomorrow by the Swedish Academy of Letters,and literary 'sources here said women authors are top contenders for the award.The sources mentioned USauthor Joyce Carol Oates, 42,as one leading candidate. Other favored contenders were Doris Lessing of England, whose fiction dealing with women's themes have won several prizes, and Nadine Gordimer of South Africa, whose recent works consider apartheid~,.Burger'slJaughter, was warmly received, the sources said.The prize, considered by many as the world's highest literary honor, usually is announced last, after the Nobel prizes for physics, chemistry and other sciences. The IS­member Academy broke the tradition yesterday by moving up the announcement date from Oct. I6 to Oct. I 0 with only one day's notice.Literary sources said Academy Secretary Lars 
Gyllensten may have changed the procedure to avoid information leaks. -AP 
Some of the dozens of bystanders laughed and jeered as the man with one arm in a sling frantically tried to climb out of the way ofa subway train roaring into the station, police said. But no one went to the aid ofStanley Simmons, 32, of Evanston, an unemployed cement mason and father of two children. He was crushed between the boarding platform and the third car ofa four-car train in an underground State Street station i11 downtown Chicago on Tuesday. While subway traffic was tied up for 25 minutes, firemen freed Simmons with a hydraulic jack that tilted the train away from the platform where he was wedged. Simmons died three hours later during surgery at Northwestern Memorial Hospital. Fire Lt. John Vict6r was told at the scene that the crowd was "laughing and jeering'' as Simmons tried to climb back to the platform, but was hindered by an injured arm he had in a sling. "People don't like to get involved with people who seem down and out," \'ictor said. He added that some of the bystanders apparently thought they would be electrocuted if they touched the man "·hile he was on the tracks.-AP 
Genetic engineerine: on humans was performed for the first time, as far as is 'Itnown, by a UCLA ,ioctor who tried to cure a fjttal inherited blood disease by 
• :tdding a new gene to the living cells oftwo patients, university ,)fficials said yesterday. The historic and controversial procedure was carried out in Israel and Italy by Dr. Martin]. Cline. It was met with official concern that he was moving'too quickly from the animal experiments that won scientific praise last April. The results of the procedure were reportedly inconclusive. After three months there was no indication the new genes, inserted into defective cells of the patients' bone marrow, were producing normal blood cells. Both patients were reported alive and doing well, although the treatment apparently had no effect on the disease, called beta thalassemia major. Victims are unable to produce normal hemoglohin, a blood molecule that carries the oxygen needed by all tissues. ­
AP 

Sunny and mild today through Friday. Chanceof ram 10 percent today, with a high near 72. 
·( 


The staff they lean on 
As an office like the American presidency grows more and more complex, the importance of the men around The Man is increased accordingly. That makes it doubly important that, in this election year, we examine the loyal servants behind this year's models, Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan. 
We excludeJohn Anderson not just because his chances ofvictory are remote, butbecause his staff · consists mainly ofmedia manipulator DavidGarth and a gang of idealistic lawyers. The rest of Anderson's aides are, sadly, apparently giving up the ship anyway. 
We all know the faces behind Jimmy Carter. Hamilton Jordan, Zbigniew Brzezinski, Jody Powell and Pat Caddell, all are familiar names to Americans. After three years in office, we know what they can and cannot do. 
Referred to collectively on several occasions by Patrick Lucey as "the Ge,orgians," as if they were a band ofmedieval European terrorists, this group's strong suit is undeniably campaigning-witness 1980, where they are keeping a candidate afloat even though his record could easily drown him. In· 1976, they defeated an incumbent whose record was not n·early as shabby, no insignificant feat. 
As administrators, the Georgians have not been quite so adept. Their communication mixups have hurt the presidenton several occasions, their inept liaison with Congress have disabled Carter leg­islatively, and their overall incompetence has alienated other world leaders. At least we know what we're getting. 
So as we face the grim reality that Ronald Reagan has a very good shot at becoming our next president, we must look at his policy advisers, and where they may end up in the WhiteHouse. This is especially significant in view of Reagan's past practice, as governor of California, to delegate a great deal of authority to his aides, and make decisions based on the recommendations ofthose around him. 
Edwin Meese III is one of the top aides in the Reagan Brain Gang. He was Reagan's Chief of Staff in Sacramento, has kept things running fairly smoothly in this campaign, and would probably be one of Reagan's chief White House. advisers. Meese, a former criminal prost ·utor, is highly regarded for · his organizing abilities, and he reportedly was behind the move to exile former campaign chi~f John Sears, who committed the crime oftrying to broaden Reagan's political base. 
Richard V. Allen is Reagan'·s chiefforeign policy architect, building upon Reagan's view that the Soviet Union is behind everything. Allen was a member of the National Security Council for a short time under President Nixon, but was muscled aside by Henry Kissinger shortly after his arrival. The New York Timfs described Allen's think tank as having a "somber world view," constantly suspicious of the Russians, and in another in­terview, Allen didn't shirk the label "ultra-

Tom 
Jackman 
Executive News Editor 
conservative" when it was applied to him. Allen is a 
likely prospect for either Secretary of. State or 
National Security Adviser, depending on how 
Reagan plans to use those branches. 
The economic advisers behind Reagan are 
inter~sting. Supenrised by domestic policy chief 
Martm Anderson, Reagan had young, conservative 
renegades like Jack Kemp and Arthur Laffer 
lea~ing his camp~ign earlier in the year, pushing 
the1r renowned mnovations such as the Kemp­
Roth Bill, Free Enterprise Zones, and the Laffer 
Curve. However, it appears as if their ideas were 
too radical to push heavily in the general cam­
paign, and more moderate economists such as 
George Shultz and Alan Greenspan now have 
Reagan's ear. Both are survivors from the 
Nixon/Ford years, and they have restrained the 
f~rvor which Reagan was employing earlier to plug 
hts tax cut proposa!s and other extreme economic 
programs. Accordmg to Fortune magazine, they 
fear that tax cuts could bring about huge federal 
deficits without supplementary stimulative 
actions. 
Lyn Nofziger has been handling the press 
aspects of Reagan's campaign this fall, and would 
probably be the next White House press sec­
retary. Promises of an "open" administration are 
not as forthcoming as they were inJimmy Carter's 
1976 campaign, but the media has not had many 
complaints with their treatment by the Reagan 
camp so far. 
Martin Anderson is Reagan's chief domestic policy designer, and has also been charged with assembling the team of experts who he terms "an intellectual army". Anderson worked in the first term of Nixon, helped set up the all-volunteer Army, and is an expert on welfare reform, supposedly a forte of Reagan's California ad­ministration. He describes his role in the campaign as one to "facilitate his access to advice and information," but actually Anderson has been one of the prime movers in Reagan's most recent policy statement;;. 
Anderson has been noncommittal on returning to Washington-he told one reporter, "the job I'd like is Charlie Kirbo's job. (Kirbo is one of the "Georgians") Every three weeks you fly in and tell the bastards what they're doing wrong, and then go home." Whether he'd need a Lear Jet or a prop plane will hinge on the competence ofone man we haven't evaluated here-Ronald Reagan. We can only hope for the latter, and predict the former. 
The_Ohseryer 
Tle.rig" Fditor ........ Deirdre Murphy lJt•.rig" .1J.rt.r. .............. A nne Fultz Tom O'Connor Tlov/Night Tt'dmitio".r ... Bruce Oaklev · Pat-citv .\'t•u·.r F.dlfor ........................ : 
You'll Get Yours, Jackman Feoture.r UJ)•out ...............; Scoop Sf;ort.r LtJf>l' F!dt~or . ..... Beth Huffman 
7)•j>t.rf.<' •....•.•.•......•......•.••.•. 
Cindy Jones Bridget Bloechl 
D.M. 
Suzv Sulentic ,\'/) nov Edt~or. . . . . ...... Barb Biehl Photographer .. ........ Linda Shanahan Notohle Gue.rt.r ...................... . Johnny Max Steve Swonk, sort of Marilvn, I think and thanks. K. Cimun 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased lor $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
~*********************************



i Want changes? i 
* * 

~ YOUR STUDENT ~ 
* * 

~ GOVERNmENT £ i NEEDS YOUR HELPI E 
* * 
~ <************************* ~ 
* * 
~ PASS THE ~ 
* * 



~ NEW CONSTITUTION E 
* * 

~ <************************* ~ 
* * 
* * 
* * 
~ VOTE "YES" ON OCT. 14 ~ 
* * 
* * * * * 
* * * * *
* * * * *
* * * * * 
* * * * * 
~*******************************~ 


-----------------~-----~­
The Observer Thursday, October 9, 1980-page 3 

Scholarship foundation asks Notre Dame to select candidates 
By Mttry Fran Callahan Senior Staff Reporter 
The Henry Luce Foundation has asked the University to nominate three scholars for the distingushed Luce Scholars Program, which enables winners to spend a year working and studying in an Asian country. 
The ironic feature of the scholarships, valued at a minimum of $9,000 apiece, is that they are intended for people with flO background whatsoever in Asian affairs or international relations. 
The foundation selects 15 scholars from a crop of national nominees. Eligibility require­ments are simply a distingushed record ofacademic achievement and a well-defined career ob­jective in any field-excepting one which pertains directly to Asian affairs. 
According to Donald Costello, chairman of the American Studies department, the ration­ale behind the Luce prog.ram is to improve America's understand­ing of Asia. Scholars spend one year in an Asian country and are expected to return to the United States as what Costello called "potential leaders, whose perceptions-of Asia, America and even themselves~ have been significantly sharpened as a result of the experience." 
The Foundation anticipates that scholars will always retain the impact of their Asian ex­periences as they rise within their 

John Hillenbrand Jr. campaignsfor his father 
By Loms Brea11x 

John Hillenbrand, Jr, son of gubernatorial candidate John Hillenbrand, was on campus yesterday trying to drum up support for his father's badly faltering campaign. 
Recent polls have shown that Hillenbrand, the Democratic candidate, trails his opponent, Lt. Gov. Robert Orr, by as much as 20 points, but this has not allowed his son's confidence to wane. "What the polls have shown is an incredible amountof uncommitted voters, which is unheard of in October for a governor's race," said HillenbrandJr. "Ifwe can run an effective, hard-hitting campaign in the stretch, then this election is winnable." 
"They are going to be seeing a lot of John Hillenbrand in the next few weeks and a lot of Bob Orr's record. Hopefully that will be enough to change people's minds," said Hillenbrand 
One of the main issues of the race will be unemployment, according to the younger Hillenbrand, in which the state of Indiana ranks second nation­ally. "The fact that 215,000 more jobs have been created while Orr has held office is inadequate in light of other statistics," said Hillenbrand. "We have lost our percentage of the Gross National Product every year for the past 8 years. We have an annual net migration of 19,000 people a year out oflndiana. We are below the national average in per capita real income." 
Hillenbrand says that his father is convinced the unem­ployment rate and the migration ofHoosiers out ofthe state is tied to the lack of industrial growth. The decline in the auto industry has a big part in this he conceded, but there are two causes for this; a lack ofleadership and a lack of communication between state government and city and county officials. 
Hillenbrand said his father will combat the unemployment problem with a "nine-points" program he came up with a year ago. The program is geared towards bringing industry into Indiana and keeping it in. 
"We have been following the progress of industrial plants to other states for the past year by 
Placement Bureau holds 

Career Day 
The Notre Dame Placement Bureau is sponsoring a Career Day for liberal arts students on Thursday in the LaFortune stu­dent center from noon until 4 
p.m. Representatives from ap­proximately 30 career areas will be in attendance to answer stu­dents' questions and to provide literature for students to take with them. 
Students from Notre Dame Saint Mary's, Indiana Universi~ at South Bend, Bethel College and Holy Cross Junior College are cordially invited and encour­aged to attend. 

BRIDGETS Friday 3-7 TGIF 
Hurricane Happy Hour Authentic Hurricane Cocktails You Keep the Glass 
Saturday-Open 10:00 a.m. Pre-Game Party 2 for 1 Bloody Marys and Screwdrivers 

GYROS ARE BACKI!I 
varied professions. 
Professional internships or teaching/research positions be­come available to the scholars selected. The Foundation pro­vides the winners with airfares, stipends, allowances and also secures scholars positions in Asian countries. Positions are arranged according to an indivi­dual's background and career interests. 
Scholars selected are not ex­pected to speak an Asian lan­guage. Once in their respective countries, however, they must be willing to take a course in the region's native language. 
Since only 15 scholars are selected on a national level, the 
1 

process ofgetting nominated is a competetive procedure. A spokesperson for the American Studies Department, however, said that "quite a few" people have requested the n•mination applications. 
Students or faculty who wish to apply for the program should obtain all the necessary docu­ments from the American Studies Office, 339 O'Shaugh­nessy Hall. Completed materials should be returned to Costello by November 20. The Luce Foundation will select nominees in December. 

No habla espanol... but I'm learniflg. (Photo by Liflda Shanahafl}. 

219-283-4395
8-5 MON.-SAT 

EVENINGS BY APPT 
UNIVERSITY HAIR STYLISTS 
FULL SERVICE UNISEX CENTER HAIR CUTTING SPECIALISTS 

BADIN HALL NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY No:rRE DAME. INDIANA 46555 
WHO SHOT M.O.? 

Benjamin Beaurevers · the philandering millionaire? Madame Beaurevers · the cheating wife? Josefa ·the scorned lover? Morestan ·the hardened clerk? 
Find out. A SHOT in the DARK FRIDAY and SATURDAY, Oct. 10 S II WASHINGTON HALL 



8:00 p.m. More everything than Dallas! 
....united Limo, Inc. Travel United Limo To/From Chicago O'Hare Airport 
One Way Fare ..... $22.00 
Deliver to your airline at O'Hare Airport

Round Trip .......... $39.00 
O'Hare pick-up at Lower Level Carson Restaurant 
Save over 50% on Round Trip To and From O'Hare
- - 
IA':IH' Ri~: Rt·ar  l.t·aH· \.D.  l.t·a••· \irpurl  \rriH· O'llan·  lt·a•t· O'llart·  \rriH \Ji,h.  
5:00  5:10  5:20  5:45  8:00  8:15  11 :on  
R:OO  8:1()  8:20  8:-15  II:110  I I "!.'  _':1111  
II:00  II: I() 2:10  II :20 2:20  II :-15 -':-1.'  :::Oil ·'.· ()()  -': 1.' ': 1.'  ·'.·(}II '<:1111  
5:10  5:20  5:-15  8:{)()  8. 15  II :Oil  

---O'IIARF PICK-liP-----:--­
O••"' £•"•'" 
~II,_... I.I 
low.L..el C.rton'l Circle Reet•urent 

1//utr tOW hotII /l"fJIII nlfl til 111 ci/lllllt' !11 fllllc ,,, 1/J~·IJ • 
l'll'<l'l' mah n·wnaliun' 2~ hour' in a1h ann· • Call l"nr n·wn~linn' fur "" ahuul 'pt·t·ialt·harlt·r r;llt'' Pkk-up al llulida• Inn.~ ll.h;~rl 
Pkk-up alllulida\ Inn. \1irhi~:arl ( il•

CaU United Limo, Inc. (219)255-3068 
OFFICE,

PICK-UP Bittersweet & McKinley, Big Bear Restaurant, Town & Country Center, POINTS: Notre Bus Shelter, Mlchiana Regional Airport 
'. -l95 McKINLE~ MISHAWAKA 
The Observer 
Thursday, October 9, 1980-page 4 

U.S. Not Immune 






Terrorism escalates 


place on the seventh anniver­
sary of the overthrow of 
Chilean Marxist president Sal­
vadore Allende. 
The FBI made a great deal of 
the obvious fact that Omega 7 
had become emboldened 
enough to go after a diplomat. 
But it did not, of course, 
mention its sad record of 
failure in trying to stem an 
escalatin g wave of Third 
Worls bloodletting on U.S. soil. 
The tempo of terrorism has 
been rising in recent years. 
The neo-Nazi Croatian nation­
alists have left a bloody wake 
with their pipe bombs in J?OSt 
offices and atrports. And smce 
1976, there have been twok 
political murders in Wash-. 
ington D.C.--one world capital 
that always considered itself 
immune from this kind of nasty 
business. In that year, 
Orlando Letelier, the former 
Chilean ambassador to the 
U.S., was murdered with a 
bomb-in downtown Wash 
ington. And last July, a former 
Iraniandiplomat was killed in 
the Washington suburb of 
Bethseda by assassins re­
portedly in the employ of the 
Khomeini regime. 
But the most endemic terror 

problem has been the fanatic "Cuban exiles--many of whom recieved support from the U.S. government in the early 1960s. 
Recent public assertions the 
the FBI is giving "top priority" 
to rooting out the terrorists has 
been greetid with what can 
kindly be described as ske.p­
ticiam. Concerned Cuban extle 
groups, upon whom the Cuban · 
terrorists · usually prey~ 
consider the federal policy to 
be one of benign neglect. The 
killing of a diplomat and the 
bombing of a Russian mission 
to the UN last December are 
but a fraction of the Cuban 
exile terrorism during the past 
decade--terrorism that includes 
nine murders or attempted 
murders and hundreds of in­
cidents of violence and 
bombing. Even the FBI office 
on Miami was bombed and, 
after four years, that case has 
not been solved. 
The failure to act or the lack 
ofany meaningful federal com­
mitment to stop this kind of 
violence becomes even more 
difficult to ·understand when 
federal agencies insist they 
have known for years who is 
behind Omega 7. 
] erome Sanford, a former 
federal prosecutor in Miami, 
tried for three years to get his 
superiors in Washington to 
undertake a major effort 
against a rising wave of terror­
ism in Miami. His efforts were 
met with silence and tn· 
difference. 
Today, Sanford believes that 
it was more than just the 
weight of ] ustice Department 
bureaucracy that buried his 
best efforts. There simply had 
to be complicity involved," 
Sanford said early this year 
after he resigned in disgust. "I 
was trying to make a concerned 
effort against terrorist activity 
in South Florida. In a way, 
without being too romantic, I 
was kind of like King Arthur in 
Camelot. I tried to pull to­
gether a !at of ~ood men, a lot 
ofgood people tn a round table 
so that we could work for one 
common end. I feel in a sense 
betrayed, because there were 
others who felt I should not 
have the information I 
needed.'' 
Street level FBI agents pri­vately tell the same story, as do local law enforcement officers; "We all have trouble with the feds," says one New York City police official. "And without them we can't solve cases like this (the cuban diplomat's murder). All we can do is go through the motions and build paper 
palaces with our reports.'' 
New York police are severly 
limited in this kind of in­
vestigation, for the assassins 
find ready refuge across the 
Hudson River in New .Jersey. 
There, among large Cuban 
Health Center accepts 

donations 
Blood donations from Keenan and Stanford will be taken in the Student Health Center from 1 
p.m. to 3:15p.m. tomorrow and Thursday. 
''OK 

Settle down ' ' 

/ 

By john Cummings Pacific News Service 

EDITOR'S NOTE: As the recent assassination of a UN diplomat in New York sug­gests, Third World political terron'sm is now being played out on Amen'can sozl with increased frequenqy and bold­ness. Federal efforts to cap the mounting violence have met with uniform failure, reports john Cummings, a New York journalist currently completing a book on Cuban political terronsm in the U.S. 
NEW YORK--On Sept. 11, the Cuban exile group that calls itself Omega 7 escalated its level of anti-Castro terror­ism in the United States by killing a Cuban diplomat in broad daylight as he drove along a busy street in New York City. 
The assassination--the first of a UN diplomat on U.S. soil--was brutal, but it was also symbolic. Anyone who had followed the history of terror­ism in the U.S. in the last half dozen years realized that the date was chosen as carefully as the target. The murder took 
J~ 
·~ 
~0 .<'\ nr:w i·· 111 ._;. _-) . ,.J 0{. .._y v•.."Jied f<.Jf !t .._, 8•.:., 10 ·,' ··.• ~..('.),. ~ 1 I J .t:•tfer. w~~ I I •'j 'f' ~o~-..v. e,~ u:. ~I o_ur r..~w ~ ····~·I {','j ,~(..j. ·'''_
VIJd 
:~ hope wrll <.ontrnue lo '-'~J ft,e '-·ln if.''-', ~ favorite as it hrJs for thr~ po1:,t ~0 te'J ­Having one of the most r;onten•PO 
rary salons for men and wo,nen tn the Mtd· west, we think the creative atmosphere of our ne•v salon wilt bring out the best in an already talented <Jnd prof~ional stl)ff of hair designers. (Trainee hair­
cuts available at reduced prices by request.) 
Open "til 9:0(i. and Thurs. 



michael 6 co. 
hoir concepts 
f10'Sfl"OW''OU"r"Ci'ppreciation To;-h';jpi';9';;;;k;1Ithis salon possible, present this ad before Nov. 1
I 
1st and receive $2 OFF. I
L 


---------------------~ 


The Observer 
Saint Mary's holds informational meeting for all ~terested in College Bowl 
by Mary Leavitt tions for College Bowl 'Yill be be the all-star team representingSaint Mary's News Editor distributed, and the game's rules Saint Mary's in regional play. 
Saint Mary's will hold an orien­and regulations will be clarified. Schulte hopes to send a team to tation meeting tonight at 6 for Lisa Schulte, campus College the regionals at Southern Illinois students and faculty wishing to Bowl coordinator, explained University in February. participate in this year's College that students may sign up in Schulte said that Saint Mary's Bowl, the intercollegiate quiz teams or individually. Com­needs not only competitors, but game. The meeting will be in the petition takes place at the intra­also score and time keepers, Student Affairs Conference mural, regional and national publicity workers, and com­Room, LeMans Hall. Applica-level. The intramural winner will mittee members to implement 
the intramural program. In addi­tion, students and faculty mem­bers are invited to submit quiz questions for practice sessions. 



, , , Change 

"I hope to see more teams this year than the eight we had last year," Schulte commented. "I 
[continued from page I] also hope to see more students
ment." 

and faculty involved in the Bowl,our own ideas because they've For the first time, some off­either by coaching a team, work­never gotten outof the CLC." · campus students will have the ing with the set-up of the pro­Riehle also reemphasized that opportunity to vote near their gram or even participating as an
residences. Campus· View resi­

"we haven't and won't send audie(lce."
dents will be able to vote at

anybody to the CLC." Without The registration deadline for
Campus View, and off-campus

students, the CLC does not have College Bowl is October 29. At
students with a 46617 zipcode

the necessary quorum, and in that time, coaches may pick up
can vote at Notre Dame

effect does not have any power or their guidebooks in the Student
Apartments. Those who do not

function at this time. 
Activities office. Practice ses­
livein either of these two areas

Riehle said he plans to ask the sions will be held October 30
can vote jn LaFortune during

Board of Trustees to invest the through November 4, and com­lunch and dinner.
Student Senate with the same petition times and dates will be
On-campus students will vote

legislative power that the CLC posted on November 6.
in their halls.

has. That would require the 
Thursday, October 9, 1980-pageS 


University's vice president of student affairs to accept or reject all proposals submitted,and give a recommendation. The present Board of Commissioners, which the Student Senate would re­

place, has no such capability. 
If approved, the new Senate should be operational by November,according to Riehle. The proposed Student Senate would consist of the present Board of Commissioners (the SBP, the SBVP, the SU director, the SU treasurer, the HPC chairman, the Off-Campus Council chairman,plus two 
representatives from the HPC), along with an additional HPC representative, the three class presidents, plus four on-campus and two off-campus students elected by the student body. 
Each of the four on-campus representatives will be chosen from four districts that are roughly similat in population and geographic location. How­ever, the arrangement of the districts is tentative at this time, according to Riehle. 
Tuesday's referendum must 
have at least 50 percent partici­pationby the student l>ody, and two-thirds of those voting must approve of Riehle's proposals for the referendum to pass. Tech­nically, the referendum is an amendment to the present con­stitution, but Riehle said, "What we're really doing is putting in a new constitution in one amend-


General Dynamics' representatives will be on your campus to talk to you about your future. 
General Dynamics, a Fortune 100 company, is best known as the na­tion's leading defense contractor. But we have a wide range of programs in many other commercial high-tech-• nology fields as well. 
You'll find excellent career oppor­tunities in nearly every engineering discipline at most of our 15 operating divisions across the country. 
For more information on careers in aerospace, electronics, telecommuni­cations, data products, shipbuilding, tactical weaponry and other areas, be sure to pick up one of our brochures at your Placement Office and make an interview appointment. 
And, plan to attend our Corporate presentation the evening before our on-campus interviews. Details at your Placement Office. 
Or, if you prefer. send your resume to: 
BILL COLEMAN, Corporate College Relations Administrator GENERAL DYNAMICS Pierre Laclede Center, CN-13 St. Louis, MO 63105 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
\ 
. 
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 

OCTOBER 15&16 
-~--~ ---------------~­
The Observer 
Thursday, October ·9 , 1980 -page 6 

American automakers seek import controls 
By Glenn Ritt Assoicated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON-To listen to Japanese automakers these days, American cars are as roomy, as technologically ad­vanced, as mechanically sound as any Datsun or Toyota. 
The high praise from strange quarters is actually part of a strategy to try to avert import controls which the United Auto Workers and Ford Motor Co. want slapped on Japanese cars and trucks now streaming into the United States. 

The touchy issue came be­fore the federal International Trade Commission yesterday; its decision could affect Det­roit's shaky future, U.S. job­lessness and relations with a steady Asian ally. 
Specifically, Ford is seeking an tmport limit of 1. 7 million cars and 260,000 light trucks annually for five years. In the single year 1979, imports of Japanese vehicles alone ex­ceeded those numbers. 
Ford claims such restrictions would increase domestic sales by 3.9 million to 5.4 million, raise car company earnings by !5 billion to !8 billion and expand domestic employment by 170,000 to 240,000. 
The panel's recommendation to President Carter, exP.ected by late November, wtll ·be based on powerful statistics: 
Japan's share of U.S. auto imports jumped from 33.6 per­cent in 1975 to 62 percent dur­ing the first half of 1980; light truck imports rose from 46_. 7 percent to 66.7 percent. 
Japan's portion ofall car and truck sales in the United States increased from 8.9 percent in 1975 to 15. 1 percent last year to 22.5 percent in the first half of 1980. 
Japanese car companies, op­erating at virtually full capacity the last two years, exported 47 percent of their entire produc­tion. At the same time, U.S. automakers produced at only 
79.5 percent ofcapacity in 1979 and even less in 1980. Actual 
U.S. car production declined 8 percent last year and 29 per­cent during the first six months of 1980. The drop in light truck production was worse, falling 60 percent in the first half of 1980 from the same period last year. 
Detroit claims the onslaught of Japanese vehicles has help­ed devastate the domestic auto industry. 
Industrywide, three out of every 10 autoworkers are laid off, about 85 auto part plants are dosed and more than 900 
r-----------r 
1 need printing 1 
I . h ry? I
1n a ur .1 1100 -llxl7 posters I1 I only$10.00 I I ., I1· ~ 203 N.Main 1 
1• South Bend I 
I1 1I 
289-6977 
I the wiz of the I 
1 p~tin~~l.J. 
. I 
car dealers have gone out of business, according to Ford. 
''Japanese producers are taking much of the U.S. market for these vehicles and produc­ing on overtime, while U.S. tax payers are paying unemploy­ment benefits to American workers on layoff," Ford said in its petition to the lTC. 
Japanese automakers say thts begs the issue, that escala­ting imports are the conse­quence, not the cause, of Detroit's agony. 
The Japanese say that sim­ply filled a vacuum that Detroit -due to poor planning and events beyond its control­could not fill. They support their argument with quotes from U.S. auto .officials, Con­gress and the lTC itself. 
When the price of gasoline doubled in just over a year­from 65 cents in early 1979 to !1. 30 by June 1980-demand for big, high-powered cars dried up almost overnight, re­placed by demand for small, fuel-effictent autos. 
"The U.S. auto industry's ability to satisfy the rapid shift in demand was less than adequate," the lTC said in a staff report last month. 

Detroit's problems intensi­fied this , year when credit controls and a sharp jump in interest rates deterre car sales. Interest on car loans in 1978 averaged about 11 percent; this May, it exceeded 15 percent. 
This helped bring on the­recession, which in turn cut further into sales. Meanwhile, double-digit inflation persisted, further eroding personal in­comes. 
Nissan Motor Corp., maker of the Datsun, argues that imports ''have not substan­tially increased their share of the small car market in recent years" In fact, imports com­prised 31.7 percent of the U.S. small car market in 1975, but 
42.9 percent in 1980. 
TheJapanese also argue that Detroit's new small cars-such as Chevrolet's Citation, Chry­sler's K-Cars and Ford's Es­cort-will make U.S. auto­makers competitive against im­ports. 
Detroit concurs-to a point. 

U.S. cars will be compet­itive, agrees Ford, whose front­drive Escort will be rated at 30 miles per gallon in the city, 44 on the highway. 
But, Ford adds, conversion 


--~-~------~----------------------------------------------~-­
Campus Interviews 
TI Corporate Facilities 
What You Need
-

You should have a BS or MS degree in one of the following: 
Architectural Engineering  Environmental Engineering  
Chemical Engineering  Industrial Engineering  
Civil Engineering  Mechanical Engineering  
Electrical Engineering  
----------­ What We Do----------­ 

The Tl Corporate Facilities organization is a group of professionals responsible for layout, engineering and designing the building and facilities systems necessary for manufacturing and testing Tl products around the world. 
------------Areasof Activity----------­Facilities Engineering, including design of systems such as: Air conditioning and ventilating; Direction of plant equipment installation, operation, maintenance and contr'Cll; Effluent and environmental control, waste-handling equipment and systems; Electric power and lighting; Energy management and conservation systems involving computer control and 
monitoring; thermodynamic analyses of energy systems; computer modeling; boiler heat recovery systems; evaluation of new energy sources; 
Process manufacturing equipment installations; Special process utility generation and distribution facilities such as purified water, exotic gases, high pressure fluids; vacuum; 
Facilities computer-aided design; Planning plant site acquisition, site occupancy and factory space rearrangement; Responsibility for facility appearance through development of building layouts and detail 
occupancy plans; . Trade-off analyses of capit(!l investments and rearrangement plans; Working with operating groups to develop moving and req.rrangement projects to solve 
space problems due to company growth, improve material flow and manufacturing operations. 
-------------Livein Dallas------------r-Enjoy the facilities afforded by the country.'s 8th largest city, including 20 colleges and an abundance of entertainment. At the same time, take advantage of Dallas' low cost of living and no state lncome tax. 
If unable to interview at this time, send your resume in confidence to: Helen Meltzer, P.O. Box 225474, M.S. 217/Dallas, TX 75265. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
INCORPORATED An ~qual opportunity ~mploy~r 1\1/1­
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS October 16" • 17 
Fiftgears Innovation 
-~ 
to -domestic models will take time. Import restrictions would break Japan's momentum in the U.S. market and give the domestic industry a breathing spell to catch up. 
The task before the lTC is to assess the precise impact of Japanese imports on Detroit's woes. 
''If the weak overall demand for autos that has been evident in recent periods fails to recov­er significantly. . .tariffs or quotas would be much less effective in restoring the health of the U:S. industry," the lTC staff report said. 
PriceS Good 
While Supply Lasts 
-
-
Miller 
24-12 oz. 
N/R Bottles 
$6.69 
I"""' 
Pabst Blue Ribbon 
24-12 oz. cans 
$6.69 
Old Milwaukee 
24-12 oz. cans 
$6.49 
-
Philadelphia Blended Whiskey 
1.75 Liter 
$9.59 
L 
0 
c 
K 
s 
L 
I 
~ 
I 
~ t 
R 

The Observer Thursday, October 9, 1980-page 7 
• • • Hillenbrand 
(continued from pagelJ 
sending people to talk to the companies," said Hillenbrand. The common response that they received was that the companies 
, could not get guarantees in Indiana for utilities, location, and other necessities for in­dustry. 
The nine-points program of the senior Hillenbrand would include a contingency fund, 
' which would return the invest­ment the .state makes in taxes ) back to new industries just 
, getting started. The program would also include targeting industries that want to expand in the Midwest and targeting high growth potential industries. An early warning system would be established to warn the state when an industry is in trouble. Also, the program would have an after-tax rate of return statistic, done county by county, for a company to use for comparison with other counties and states. The program would also include close cooperationn between the governer and the city and county officials. Orr's association with popular governor Otis Bowen will be an obstacle that Hillenbrand must overcome to win. "If we can't separate Orr and Bowen we will 
, lose," said Hillenbrand. "Orr is 
' trying to create the image that he is the 'son of Bowen' and Bowen has a 72 percent popularity rating with Democrats. What we have got to do is point out that in the areas where Orr is respons­ible there is no leadership." The basic objections that the candidate Hillenbrand has with the present Bowen administra­tion are in the areas where he claims Orr has been responsible. His specific objections deal with the economic sitation of the state and energy policies. "Orr apparently feels that our economic problems are the responsibilities and the faults of 
Saint Mary's fencers to meet 
There will be a preliminary 
meeting for all those wishing to join the Saint Mary's fencing team today at 7 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. Novice practice will begin Monday 13 at 7 p.m. in Angela. For more information call Sharon Moore at 5143 or Ann Hendrick at 5256 . 
. . . Pitt 
[continued from page 13] 
I have never been to a Steeler game without my father and, until he made the trif. to last january's Super Bow, he coul say the same about me. Since I've been at Notre Dame, it's been impossible to attend regularly but, providentially perhaps, there always seems to be a home game or two 

-cheduled over October break 
r Thanksgiving. 
This year Oakland will be in 
ittsburgh for a Monday night 
arne on October 20, and I'll be 
here along with my dad, ready 
o renew the vows I made 10 
·hort years ago when Franco arris and I were in our prime. 
the federal conditions. He is partially correct, but we feel that it is time that Indiana stopped relying on federal trends to determine what's going to hap­pen in our state," said 
Hillenbrand. 

Concerning the state of our natural resources, we need some­one who can get things going," comented Hillenbrand. "When you talk about coal we have been embarassed by the surrounding states. A proven 300 year's supply of coal for the nation is located in Indiana and were not using it." 
"My father believes that coal is the answer to our energy problems but Indiana has done nothing to develop this resource." 
This is Hillenbrand's first bid 

favor Hillenbrand since he is from a small town and has been very successful in adinistrative expe'rience, according to his son. He has also been the first and only chairman of the Depart­ment of. Natural Resources under four governors. ' 
"My father constantly has to have a challenge," said Hillen­brand of his father. "He's a competitor and likes a challenge whether it's in business or sports. He was never satisfied to sit back after an accomplishment. He's a workaholic. He's not necessarily 
. a politically oriented leader in that he will not always take the expedient course. When he's in charge whether it's on a tennis court or in business you're going to see things happen." 
for an elected office. His son  
believes that this may be more of a help than a hindrance. "We are finding that, through polls,  • • • Parent  
Hoosiers like to elect· a fiscal  
conservative from a small town milieu who has had succesful administrative experiences," said Hillenbrand. These findings .. . Money [continued from page I] One aide, emphasizing that negotiations with the banks are continuing, said half in jest "What the banks won't do the people will." The ads, likely to begin late next week, will attempt to portray Anderson as a centrist alternative to Carter and Republican nominee Ronald Reagan. ... Terror  [continuedfrom page I) Regarding the responsibility for the safety of students involved in off-campus crime, Parent stated the student population has been "forced off-campus, allowing landowners to jam students into housing, charge higher rates, but offer less service." Parent suggested the ND Administration form a corporation to oversee student housing conditions and he offered city assistance in the establishment of such a program. According to Parent; the proposed group must develop strategy for dealing with both off-campus housing and crime problems. Speaking of the Corby's situation, Parent explained that the city is "not out to close the bars, but out to make the bar owners operate decent places" by forcing owners to adhere to restrictions which require customers, and their drinks, to remain inside the bars. Parent noted that the city is not"comingdown very hard a tall" on Corby's, but instead is concerned with the safety of students, bar operations, amounts of litter and trash in the area, and area residents. "The strength of that area," Parent explained, "lies in the permanent residents. If the area develops into total student housing, we're in big trouble."  '  apartment. Parent explained that die city would assist , students and administrators in an inspection ofoff­campus housing to form a list of recommended apartment houses, but only if the city received endorsement and cooperation of the ND Administration. Later, in an interview with The Obseroer, Parent explained his absence at a recent meeting between ND administration officials to discuss off-campus crime. He said that it is "difficult for people to understand" that he cannot be directly involved in many important issues, but he also noted that when he assigns attendance at such meetings to his staff members, he delegates "the people that speak for me ... my absence at any particular meeting means nothing, really." Concerning the allocation of $30,000 to the South Bend police department, Parent explained the money was being used to replenish the department's overtime fund, in order to en­courage officers to work overtime for the department instead of obtaining another job for additional income. The overtime hours, according to Parent, are used to replace hours lost by officers on vacation or off-duty due to illness, as well as increased patrols in the northeast area. Parent attributes the rise in off-campus student  
[continued from page 4] exile c?mm~nities, they find protection, m part out of sympa.thy but largely because the exiles fear the assassins. ''They are merely hoodlums wrapped in 'the ~uban flag," says one promment Cuban exile leader m New Jersey who asked for aninymity.  To alleviate the overcrowding of.local bars and the related problems this situation causes, Parent suggested that "maybe keggers should be allowed on campus." South Bend City Attorney Richard Hill agreed that "we'd really like to see the University as less of a silent partner in this." When questioned ifhe would allow his daughter to live as an off-campus student, Parent stated he would allow her to live in the area, yet he would advise her to "stay away from Corby's, be careful about walking alone at night," and he would install "reinforced windows and sturdy locks" in her  crime to the larger number ofstudents in the area and the higher unemployment rate, now between 11 and 12 percent. "Students are more vulnerable. They're easy targets," Parent stated. In response to Corby's spokesman Harold Rowley's charge that Parent is "conspiring" to close down the "fivepoints" area, Parent termed Rowley's charges as "baloney." "Nobody is conspiring with anybody. I've been trying to get the bars to operate properly there for years. If he thinks that started January 1, he's just not being realistic," Parent said.  



I ­
.. 

Editorials Thursday, October 9, 1980-page 81 
New constitution P.O..BoxQ can uriify NDSG 
whether Notre Dame was able to· Notre Dame students as they went 

Thanks for protect its name by finding some past the main gate? And now, in the legal loopholes at an Indiana face of rising campus and off­Employment Security Commission campus crime, are such people
·"The Notre
HPC,CLC,NDSG,BOC,Blah, Blah, Blah. 
hearing or whether the Marozsan wearing this school's uniform and Perhaps you are as tired ofseeing those abbreviated letters in case occurred six months or six pretending that· they are here to our headlines as we are tired of printing them. This is an Dame Family" years ago. " protect the very people theyeditorial suggesting what you personally can do about it. 

The issue is whether Marozsan allegedly despise? 

In case you do not know what those letters stand for -and is telling the truth or not. Do The fact that this paper could
To the Notre Dame Community,
most students don't-they represent various ineffective 
members of our undermanned, recently report that a security
On behalf of myself and my

branches of an incoherently organized student government. 
poorly trained, meagerly paid, guard laughed when a student

family, I would like to express our
These organizations started with a good, though unclear, 
practically unarmed and, in some reported a major theft only lends

deepest gratitude to all those
purpose, but that purpose is now one which they no longer 
cases, physicaly unfit security credence to Marozsan's accusa­
people, and especially to the

,erve. When one uses the phrase "student government" one 
force harbor antagonisms or tions. Something seems wrong in
women of Farley Hall, who offered 

may be referring to one, part or all ofthose operations, and even 
grudges against the Notre Dame the security shack, and it would
their support during my illness and 

->tudent government members are in disagreement over which 
student body? And are enough of behoove the administration to
hospitalization. Your prayers, cards, 

, Jrganization should properly handle a particular issue. 
them so psychologically warped undertake an investigation before
letters, and gifts have provided us

On Tuesday you will have a chance to change all that. On that 
that they were willing to go out of some or all of us become the
with strength and comfort through­

Jay a student vote will take place to ratify a new constitution for 
their way to make life miserable for victims of tragedy.
out the many long andtrying weeks. 

the student government. So far the average student has shown one of their members just because it 
I wish it were possible to thank

little interest in this issue and that is a normal reaction. Our was his habit to smile or wave at Gregory J. W Urwin
each of you personally and to let organizational malaise that the student gets the impression it is 
current student government is so bogged down in its pwn 
you know how your support gave not worth following. Students are justified in this assessment. 
me the strength to keep on fighting, But Student Body President Paul Riehle's proposal could and 
Elect/God
I know now the true meaning of the 

phrase "the Notre Dame family". collection ofstudent groups, and like any good manager his first 
should change this situation. He has inherited an inoperative 
Again, I wish to express my move is to cut out the deadwood, reorgan,ze and streamline. If 
thanks to you all. 
Art BucbUJald

you like that idea, you should be at the voting booth to voice· 
Lisa Ditmyer
your approval. 

''That's ridiculous. I hardly know Paul Riehle's proposal for a new student government 
WASHINGTON-God is 
really getting a workout during this the man, though I have seen his constitution is, for this organizational malady, exactly what the election year. There was a time movies." 

doctor ordered. In fact, it is the first really positive step we have when the TV preachers devoted their "But the Bible thumpers keep seen student government take in years to solve a few ofits many 
programs to telling us how angry quoting you all the time. They say problems. Ifaccepted by the students it would: 
Do N.D. God was with the way we were you've definitely made your mind up behavin and we better all go along with you or in our private lives, which of course 've're headed for damnation."
• relieve the Campus Life Council ofits role as "catalyst" for 
security guards 
is their business. "With, all due respect to thesechange (since it has no legislative powers). This is an action we But now we're being told that God people, they don't know what in thehave advocated for at least a year. The CLC has a very poor track 

protect students? has a vested interest in who we put in devil they're talkinng about. I've told record, a fact which is beyond dispute. The very administrators 
public office, and some funda­them time and time again that I don't who consistently reject their well reasoned proposals also sit on mentalist sects known as the "Moral give political endorsements. If I did, the original voting board; this is the height of governmental Ml\iority" are spending loads of I wouldn't be God. I have a good

Dear Editor, 
absurdity. 
money to defeat anybody whose mind to sue them for using my name
In the October I issue of The 
voting record doesn't go along with without my permission."

Observer you printed an artfcle
~ reta~n the HPC in its present form as a soapbox for the their interpretation of the Bible. ··I don't blame you," I said. "And 
about the plight of a former security 
art1culatwn ofstudent views, while adding more ofits members They are calling for a holy war I for one never believed them when 
guard, Steve Marozsan, who
to the new governing body. ~ 
against those who are for the ERA they kept quoting you on the political 

claimed he was forced to resign 
abortion, school busing and against issues." ..

from the employ of the University
• create a new governing body-a "student senate"­
the B-1 bomber. "What scares me,".God said, "is 

of Notre Dame because he was
which would regulate all branches of student government (a I always thought the nicei thing that these TV ministers are not only 
subjected to harassment by his
responsibility currently handled by no one), propose changes 
about God was that he stayed out of telling the American people whom I 

fellow guards, who felt he was 
American politics. support but they're raising all their negotiation with administrators. Additionally, it would 
and carry the full weight of student opinion into any 
getting too friendly with the But after watching the TV shows money in my name. They keep represent more fully all dimensions ofstudent life: the halls, the 
students here. for the past few weeks, I was warning the viewing audience that if classes and the off campus governors. 
When asked to comment on Mr. beginning to wonder. they don't send in their checks, I'm Marozsan's statements, Glenn So when I spoke to God the other going to be very upset. Terry, the Security Director, did night I asked, "Who are you going to ''I don't deal in money-never
Perhaps the most important aspect of the new constitution 
not even try to deny the charges, vote for this year?" have and never will. But they'reand its child the student senate lies in the effect of strength but merely tried to push them under God seemed very angry. "I never telling those poor souls outthere that through unity. Student opinion is now diffused in so many the bureaucratic rug by labeling take sides in an American election." if they don't come up with a contri­disparate and impotent groups that administrators cannot take. 
them "no longer important." "But there are a lot of people down bution they won't have salvation. I'd seriously any proposal or prophecy. This is evidenced by the But they are important, Chief here who say you want Reagan." appreciate it if you would put thefact that they've taken none seriously in the last few years. A 
word out that anyone is free to send

Terry, for they pertain in an
united, well composed student senate is the answer. We whole­
Art Buchwald is a syndicated 
in any amount of money to a TV

uncomfortably direct way to the
heartedly recommend to every student to get out and vote for a 
columnist occassionally featur­
minister but their money isn't buying 

welfare and the happiness of this
changeon Tuesday. 
edon The Observer's eclitorials 
a place in heaven. It's buying limou­

community. The issue is not page. 
sines and private airplanes and $500 suits for the people who are making the pitches."

by Garry Trudeau 
"God, you sound mad." "I am mad. I'm trying to keep the 
whole world from blowing up and
~CAN'TMAl<£ IT? ISA!IJI'/} 
those preachers down there say my
THAT5 O!<AY, I lOV/3 70. 
only concern is to defeat George
UNIJCR. .. "/AIHATf 513/3 YOU 
\ 
FRJ~Y. 
McGovern in South Dakota." 
"I wish you could somehow get
/ 
the message over that you aren't for or against anyone running in our elections this year. Itwould certainly clear the air for all of us." 
"I can't do it. I believe in the separation of church and state. I've stayed out of American politics since 1776 and that's why you people are still around. I'm sorry. I have to go now, I have the Moral Majority on hold." 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Ihe 
Sports Editor .. ................ Beth Huffman Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Features Editor.·................ Molly Woulfe 
Editor-in-Chief................. Paul Mullaney 
Managing Editor... ................ Mark Rust 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Photo.Editor .................... .John Macor
Editorials Editor ............... Mike Onufrak
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. It does not necessarily -­
Senior Copy Editor . .............. Lynne Daley Business Manager ............... Gre-g Hedges 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported 
Executive News Editor .......... Tom Jackman Controller......................... .Jim Rudd
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a 
News Editor . ................... Pam Degnan Advertising Manager . ............... Mark Ellis
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and SMC Executive Editor .......... Margie Brassil Circulation Manager ....... , ..... Beth Hackett the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC News Editor .... ........... M£ry Leavitt Production Manager ........... .John McGrath 



The Observer 
Thursday, October 9, 1980-page 9 

P.O.BoxQ 
The right not to fight leads to no rights at all 
Dear Editor, 
Margie Brassil, in your article 
entitled "A Form ofPatriotis.m," 
you suggest that the conscien­
tious objector, by disobeying an 
"unjust" civil law to fight, is 
preserving the right of the in­
dividual, the right to live and 
follow his own beliefs. You 
suggest that the U.S. should "lay 
down their arms voluntarily," to 
start a trend toward peace. You 
suggest that Americans should 
en masse refuse to fight in a war, 
thus creating an incentive to 
avoid war. 
I suggest that you wake t!p. 
Suppose for a minute that the 
U.S. did as you suggest. Suppose we abandoned our arms. Sup­pose each individual refused to fight. The result would be that tomorrow morning the Russians 

They are massing along th~ long as one is under "the roofand from an obscure book which I
would invade the Eastern sea­"grown-up" is not something 
board and "convert" us to Polish border for an apparent that happens to you over the responsibility", one must abide stumbled across the other day. offensive. They are undertaking night of your 18th birthday, or by that establishment's rules "When you pray, do not be like
Communism. Then, where the largest buildup ofarms ever. 21st either. It is a "becoming" made according to their good the hypocrites! They love to stand would be the rights of the in­
Their history is filled with lies conscience·and values. up and pray in the houses of
dividual, "the right to live and and it takes time, experience, 
to the U.S. In Russia, what is and is-best accomplished with Frankly, I doubt that most of worship and on the street corners, follow his own beliefs?" 
morally right is what is good for some wise guidance. When you the student body would want a so that everyone will see them. IBy asserting your "right" not 
the state, even if that means out "no holds barred" university. assure you, they have already been 
to fight, you will have lost every are 30, I think you will look back 
and out lies. Perhaps you incorrectly assume paid in full. But when you pray, go 
single freedom and right that and realize just how much you
Nobody likes war. However, lacked at 18, 19, or 21. their lack of defiance is apathy. to your room, close the door, anrlyour life is based upon. We 
the best way to prevent war is not Allow me to close with a quote pray to your Father, who is unseen. 
would no longer have free news­One must also keep in mind 
to disarm, but to be too strong that rules are made for whole from one wiser than I: "At the And your Father, who sees whatpapers. We would no longer be for any country to fight us. An groups of people. If it were time it is administered, all you do in private, will rewardallowed to go to college if we 
wanted. (Why, in Moscow, the analogy: Who is more likely to otherwise, those few who truly discipline seems a cause for grief you." -(Mt. 6: 5-6) get mugged while walking across are more mature and adult could and not for joy, but later it brings The final line of this advertise­
people were overjoyed when the campus: Bob Crable or Joe expect more individual freedoms forth the fruit of peace and ment which proclaims "We're allOlympic Games brought with 
them an ample supply of sbap Pipsqueak? Might doesn't make which would then be prudently justice ... (Heb. 12:11)." in this together!" ineptly attempts and toilet paper.) You have the right, but if we have the might, used. However, in dealing with "The truth is that rules are not to present this arrogant self­"inalienable" rights to life, we can ensure that everyone has large numbers, various needs and fetters to freedom but rather glorification as an effort to unify the liberty, the pursuit of happiness, rights. stages of development must be guides to Liberty and Happiness. student body in the United Way
-john Dolan

religious freedom, etc... only taken into consideration. In the name withh ld drive. This reinforcement of inter-because our constitution says -----------­end, some may find it too e hall antagonism and alienation also you have these rights. binding, still for others it may be reminds one of the words ofa very 
By refusing to stand up and more than they can prudently wise man: fight for those rights you will lose Discipline brings handle. But one is expected to "Damn withfaint praise, assent them. And don't think that the bend to the good of the com­with civil leer, And, without Russians won't attack. Let me munity, be it family, school, etc. "Blessed sneering, teach the rest to sneer."
forth peace 

give you a glimpse of the real One other point-Walton -Pope, Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot world. We arc weak right now. seems outraged that the uni­Congratulations Dillon Hall.
are

versity should assume its juris­diction reaches to wherever the
Militarily we ·are not first. Our and justice No, better yet, thanks a lot. 
country has been held at bay for a 
year by a mob of Iranian location of the Notre Dame the humble" name withheld students. We are exceedingly Dear Edtlor, formal dance happens to be. I 
susceptible to an oil embargo. May I offer a few thoughts propose that it is reasonable to Our country is presently filled concerning the "when is the assume that where their name Dear Editor, with people arguing for disarma-university going to treat us like and reputation are presented, Dillon Hall's advertisement in The world 
ment and draft evasion. grown-ups" debate, referred to the university has obligations not Monday's edition of The Observer 
The Russian story is different. in Mr. Anthony Walton's editori­only to you as a student, but to which informed the student body of They own Cuba, only ninety a! (Sept. 23). that hall's demonstration of has aright
us, the tuition-paying parent. miles from the continental U.S. First ofall, it occurs to me that Wauld this not come under Ann generosity through the United They have taken Afghanistan. the truth of the situation is that Landers' standard advice that so Way drive calls to mind a quote to expect peace 
~ A~~~ICUM 
Dear Editor,
MEAN· NESs:. 
I shout "yes" to Margie Brassil's October 6 editorial on conscientious objection. 
If we don't struggle now fo1 
-peace and justice, we will find ourselves later struggling against violence and injustice. To ignore the former struggle in favor of the latter is not only lazy; it is irresponsible. The world's people have a right to expect that peace will someday come. 
One society can live at peace with its neighbors only if its individuals live at peace with each other, renouncing the petty vengeances, resentments and cruelties that smear human life. The peaceful man curses not the neighbor who insults him; the peaceful woman hates not the one who snubs her. They right injustice, and enrich the lives of the people around them. They live peace, they breathe peace, they are peace. _ 
-Mike DeWeert 



r 
r 
,r 
, ' 
r' 
r
,' 
r 
' 
' 
f 
FeatUres 
Thursday, October 9, 1980-page 10 


There and Back 

Rock Trivia 

Jeff Beck 
Round III: 
Epic 
Albums 

I offered another toughie last week. Back, proves the theory of the time 
Jeff Beck's new album, There and However, I offer no apologies, since Iinstead ofspending it to feed them, and had many correct entries. The one that. value of music: a note of music in thehow one gets into the newspaper by wins the $10 is the entry submitted by

Scary Monsters 
future is not worth as much as it is now.
committing brutal suicide and not by Joe Delaney of Fisher Hall. He willIn other words, There and Back wouldbeing moral and decent. The rules of receive his winnings in the mail short­have meant much more three yearslife, Bowie tells us, are designed ly. (The correct answers from last
ago. After Blow by Blow, Wired, and Live
absurdly, stressing hypocrisy rather week's quiz can be found below this 
with Jan Hammer, Jeff Beck had no­
than personal integrity and selflessness. 
week's quiz questions.) 

where to go but down. His work on
David Bowie 
The repitition of this song, at first in As far as my first quiz was concerned, these albums defined •new bounds for a brash, loud, almost sloppy manner, I was wrong. I had no entries with tenjazz guitar but he didn't take it uponand then in a softer, sadder, more correct answers; therefore, I have nohimself to carry on the apocaly_ptic·sentimental fashion, sets the evolving winner to announce. Sorry about that.
journey.

tone ofthe album. The first version is a The usual offer holds this week: if ·After the Hammer album, Beck
RCA 

trumpet blast, attempting to get your you feel you have all ten of thesechose to return home to England, away attention. The closing version is a sad correct, bring your answers to thefrom the frazzled ends of the road andreprise which leaves you with the Observer office on the third floor ofrace cars. The Hammer group record­sobering comment, "Maybe we aren't ing, an album termed useless by Beck, LaFortune by noon Friday. Your entry
Scary Monsters returns the ever­
so civilized, after all." 

may have in fact contributed to Jeffs will be put in a drawing with all otherundefinable David Bowie to the people The rest of the album addresses three year "vacation." The live album's correct entries, and the one drawn will 
who regard Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders 
various problems and comic original material waswritten mostly by win $10. Good luck!
from Mars as one ofth~ greatest p~p.ular 
hypocrisies in the world. Best of this Hammer, and Beck is backed exclu­This week's quiz has to do with·recordings in rock history. Bowie s lot are "Ashes to Ashes," about man's sively by Hammer's band. This album albums, past and present. Unless thebouncing, zigzagging career through­inablility to cope with death, marked the exit of one of rock's artist is mentioned in the question, Iout the numerous avenues of "Fashion/' about the "goon squad" virtuoso guitarists. Strangely enough, want both title and artist for each ofglitter/heavy metaVsoul/progressive/ that dictates what kind of appearance 
three ofthe eight cuts offThereandBack 
these. .

classical rock music has created an aura is acceptable, "Teenage Wildlife," are Hammer compositions, only this 1. What was the first album to spendof uncertainty about the man, who about society's crushing of individual time around Beck is the bandleader. 
its first week on the Billboard charts atrefuses to be typified by either the spirit in the name of civil discipline, There andBack could possibly pass as a number one?

press or his fans. 

and "Up the Hill Backwards," a combination of the melodic jazz of 2. At one "time, this album held theNobody really knows what kind of humorous account of the philosophy Blow by Blow and the percussive drive of record for the highest debut positonmusic Bowie will produce on any one of democracy. At times the lyrics are Wired. The new album, however, is less on the charts. It debuted in 1970 atproject, or what kind of success .the 
obscure, but inevery case they rise far than the sum of its parts. Discount number three, yet got no higher thanalbum will have on the charts. This has above the usual pop fare and give us 
number two! executives, who prefer a stable and 
them over three years at Beck'sproven maddening to recording seemingly low interest rate and you 
3. This Rolling Stones album was reliable product, and to record buyers, have tl;te present value of There and 
released only a few months after its who always expect one album to sound Back. 
predecessor, yet contains two songs pretty much like the last one the artist The best cut on the album, "El 
which were on the previous album! Becko," harks back to Beck's days on 
4. What was the last Rolling Stones

recorded. But for Bowie, the name ofthe game The Jeff Beck Group album and the 
album to use BrianJones? tight choppy number "Going Down." 
5. What was the first album released "Space Boogie" and "The Pump" are 
is experimentation. Not only has the 
by the Doors after the death ofJim glitter-rock to soul to progressive art the only other numbers in which
avant-garde composer moved from 
Morrison? Beck's guitar shines through as it 
6. This' album ended up as the should: This lack of definition in the 
and jazz rock to neo-disco to God­
number two album of the year in both guitar work is often due to Hammer's 
knows-what-else faster than one can 
1974 and 1975. prominent role in the mix as per­
sneeze, but he has also embarked on ' 
7. The first solo album recorded by cussionist. 
film and acting ventures, art exposi­
any Beatie was a movie soundtrack. One thing all Beck's solo albums, 
tions, scriptwriting, and presently is 
What was the album's name? including this one, have·in common 
starring in the Broadway hit, "The 
8. He was with a critically-acclaimed are their lack of the human voice (with 
Elephant Man." Truly, here is a multi­
British band. After he left, he released refuses to be bound by the ties of the exception ofa voice box onBlow by
talented, if not hyperactive, artist who 
three different albums, all with the Blow). This is a valid omission since his 
same name. What is the name of thepublic opinion. 

guitar talks for itself. As Beck is quoted albums?
Unfortunately, this freewheeling in Rolling Stone, "I only like people with 9. An unreleased Mothers ofattack on rock's numerous styles has, something intriguing to consider, for real voices, like Otis Redding." This is Invention album reportedly contains a over the years, alienated a great deal of they are poetry in themselves. 
a mouthful coming from a man who cut which was recorded when NewBowie's once wide audience generated Musically, the LP sounds like a series gave Rod Stewart one of his first jobs York policemen broke into there­' from his art-rock classic, Ziggy Stardust. of hybrids of past progressive and (along with Ronnie Wood) just about cording studio in the middle of aOn tha\album, Bowie .dealt wi~h. the more accessible styles. Robert Fripp, the time the Yardbirds broke up. Let's Sf\SSion-and no one bothered to shutsad isolation of a mythical musiCian­innovative guitarist extraordinaire, just say Jeff Beck was at the.top of his off the. tape recorder. What was to bedreamer, and conveyed this idea reels off blistering riffs of countless profession. • the name of this unreleased three-through pleasant and provocative . colors and densities throughout the The ne,w album is impelling simply record set? .
melodies and sensitive lyrics. Then record. Pete-Townshend, windmilling because it's a Jeff Beck LP and you 
10. It was the first album by a rockcame experiments with soul and . axe-man for The Who, provides some know that every note is genuine. From band to be recorded, in its entirety, in progressive sounds, culminating with dramatic chords. Besides competent a man who was viewed as iconoclastic­conjunction with an orchestra. (I wanttwo albums in collaboration with Brian and talented musicians, Bowie provides all)\ and acclaimed critically as Beck the name ofthe album, the name oftheEno, master of the weird synthesizer some solid rhythms and delightful you can't help but believe that it's rock band, and the name of the"treatment" effect. For a while, it melodies, presented in offbeat ways. 

nothing less than a natural phenome­orchestra.) The answers from last.1ppeared that Bowie had lost touch Snippets of synt)lesizer notes mixed non. By taking his good old time about week's quiz are: (1) Jeff Lynne ofwith his former fans, who yearned for with elaborate vocal choruses and it he has tried to insure a musically Electric Light Orchestra fame camesomething more accessible, not quite overlay upon overlay ofbass and guitar h~nest album and not just a con­from the Idle Race; (2) EltonJohn wasso bizarre. ' leads seem to mix harmoniously in one tractual obligation. At 36 years ofage, with Bluesology; (3) Deborah Harry ofScary Monsters is that record, and cohesive sou.nd. And always, ofcourse, he has a long way to go before he Blondie was with Wind in the Willows;more.· It is also the brilliantly produced is the underlying beat, performed with . 
reaches the life expectancy of your (4) Christine McVie (then known as<tnd superbly executed culmination of vigor by jazz percussionist Dennis average rockn-roller. 
Christine Perfect) sang with Chickenmusical experimentation. It is Ziggy Davis. 

Considering where the guitar has Shack; (5) Keith Emerson ofEmerson,Stard11st grown up, more serious, and as At times, Bowie indulges in some been taken since Beck put it down (the Lake, and Palmer came from TheNice;varied and surprising as Bowie's entire sound effects which at first seem Talking Heads' David Byrne, Pulic (6) None other than Bruce Springsteen career, and yet aimed toward a mass irritating, but after closer examination Image Limited's Keith Levene, Robert came to us from Dr. Zoom and theaudience. This album doesn't just merit appreciation, for these effects Fripp, et. al.), it is evident that he has Sonic Boom; (7) Gerry Rafferty wasrehash old formulas. Rather, it takes are designed to irritate, and to stir some some catching up to do. This is not to with Stealers Wheel; (8) Joe Walsh ofthe best successes of past experiments thinking in the listener. It seems say that he couldn't do it in the time it the Eagles and solo fame came fromand packages them in an enjoyable and fitting, for example, that the final takes to do another album. In fact, his the.James Gang; (9) Bobby Darinentertaining style. effect on the record, a slap-slap-slap of absence hopefully has helped him to released two records with the RinkyA loosely defined concept binds the tape running out on a reel-to-reel find himself in the changing world of Dinks; and ( 10) JerryJeffWalker was a album together, expressed best by the recorder, sounds much like applause. 
pop music. 
member of Circus Maxim us. 

opening and closing track, "It's ~o Game." Here' Bowie expresses his distaste of man's almost comic 
Scoop Sullivan Gene Zychowicz 
Tim Neely

behaviors: spending millions to do 
documentaries on starving children 

---~-----------------------------------------------------~~.~.~..~ 
. \"~:·· .... 

~The_Obsener__ _________ 
T0 day======'·=========T=h=ur=sd=ay='=O=cto=be=r=9=,1=98=0=-=pag=e=l=l 
Campus 
11 a.m.-12 p.m., suvon show, educatonal media, all faculty and staff invited, library lounge. • 
12 p.m., meeting, italian club, italian speaking profs invited, faculty room, south dining hall. • 
1-3:15 p.m., blood donations, keenan and stanford. • 
4:15 p.m., speaker, david mcdonough, british con­servative authority, business administration, "the history and rise of a new conser­vatism," 124 hayes-healy. • · 
4: 15 p.m. speaker, christian lawyers' forum, prof. conrad kellenberg, nd, "how to sin socially," 110 law school. • 
7 p.m., film, smcartdept., canadian, experimental film of the 70's, the american federation of arts, 232 moreau. • 
7 p.m., computer mini­course, computing center, sas basics, ccmb, call 281l to register. • 
7 p.m., speaker, jan mahalich, "ins and outs of campaigning and running for office," carroll hall. • 
7, 9:15, 11:30 p.m., film, "the fury," engineering aud.
•
7:30 p.m., german cinema, "the triumph of the will," washington hall. • 
8 p.m., speaker, prof. edward pessen, city u. of n.y., history dept., "the surpnsmg social back­grounds of the presidents," galvin aud. • 
8 p.m., faculty recital, jeffrey jacob, dept. of music, smc piano, smc little theatre.
•
8 p.m. speaker, dr. eugene 
j. brzenk, nd, english dept., reading from his novel, "at the still point-" plus short fiction, open to all, snite museum. • 
9 p.m., workshop, psych. services, campus security, officials of student affairs, "working against rape, speakers, films, hand-outs, open to all, cce aud. • 
9 p.m., greg butler, ad­mission free, nazz. • 
-exhibit, louise pierucci holeman, fiber and paper, moreau gallery. • 
-exhibit, photo graph­ics, hammes gallery. 
Molarity Michael Molinelli 






Peanuts Charles Schulz 
I CAN'T CONCENTRATE, 


DON'T LET IT BOTI-4ER 
MARCIE..ALL rCAN THINK 

L(OU, SIR ..READ '<OUR 
OF IS THAT KID CALLING 

BOOK, AND PUT IT OUT 
ME ''GOLF BALL NOSE 11 


OF 't'OUR MIND 


• 
ACROSS 26 Longfellow 50 Degrader 12 Bruce 1 Howdy-and Thoreau 54 With 13 Lock of
The Daily Crossword 
6 Crony 27 Slump 56 Cannabis hair 9 Sea-bound 29 Daullng fiber 18 Doughboys: salmon success 59 Jalopies abbr. 14 New Delhi 31 Declare 62 Nameln 22 Raffle 

site Innocent China ticket 15 Indian 34 Little 63 Floor 24 Brownish 16 Acolyte Indian sum squares gray 17 Mettlesome 35 Indonesian 64 Landing 28 "-Bias" 
ones Isle sites 30 J.Cobb 19 Certain 39 United 66 Tuscan: 31 Expert progeny 41 Level of comb. form 32 Policeman 20 Centennial command 67-to a 33 Job secur· 
• State: abbr. 43 Fencing customer lty 
21 Elves of sword 68 Bridal path 35 Tree Irish 44 Sister 69 Krupp works 36 Medieval folklore 46 Rights city pharmacist 
23 Point of 47 Pin-up art 70 Endorsed: 37 Destiny land works abbr. 38-and outs 25 Sunshine 49 Academy: 71 Doandml 40 Lamon State: abbr. abbr. 42 Time abbr. 
DOWN 45 Imminent 1 LPs 47 Oule 2 Leading 48 Trapped 3 Harem girl 50 A Shaw 4 Watered 51 Hectors 
down: abbr. 52 Book of 5 Two-masted maps vessel 53 Inscribed 6 Highly stone 
rhetorical 55 Refugees: 7 Allure abbr. 8 -majesty 57 Sugar tree 9 Perfuming 58 Assumes a 

powder stance 10 Lombard 60 N. Max. 10/9/80 
city city
© 1980 by Chicago Trlbune-N~Y. News Synd. Inc. 
11 Scent In 61 Musial
All Rights Reserved 
Southampton 65 River: Sp. 

Ifyou missed getting your picture in 
Freshman Register.,. 
Applications for the Freshman Register will be taken Oct. 9th from 1:00pm to 5:00pm next to the ticket office, 2nd floor LaFortune 
check & picture price includes both book & supptemen 
Those, other than Freshman, interested in ordering a Register may do so. (St. Mar_y's Freshman will be contacted · the St. M 's Freshman Co··£., 
....­
a-····················: 
: Tonight at LEE'S : 
: Bar-8-Q/Brew Special : 
: 5-10 p.m. $100 OFF : 
•• Any Pitcher of Beer •• : with Food Purchase :
. --------------. 
: · Saturday Open : : Immediately : ; Following the Game : 
,...•........•....~..•: 
• 

• -• a 
r '" 
, ___ 
The Observer Thursday, October 9 1980-page 12 

HING GROWS 

FLORIS -campus delivery HOUSE PLANTS GIFTS, CORSAGES 272­
HOUSE PLANTS 8820 GIFTS, TELEFLORIST 
N. IROI~WOOD I at TOLL ROAD DIRECTLY· 
EAST of CAMPUS 114mi. N. of Douglas 
l0% DISCOUNT PRESENT THIS COUPON 

Irish field hockey team to defend 3-0 home record 
by David Wilson Sports Writer 

Having completed a very successful week of action away from horne, the Irish field hockey team boasts a respect­able 7-2 record going into today' s match against Goshen on Cartier Field. The Goshen game is the first of an import­ant four-game homestand on the Astroturf. 
'Friday the team meets St. Mary's in the eighth game of the annual rivalry. Compiling a 5-2 record, the Irish have dominated the series since its beginning. 
The homestand will be com­pleted with matches against Valparaiso and Marion next Monday and Thursday, respec­tively. 
Should Notre Dame defeat Valparaiso, according to team manager Nina Deleone, the Irish will be guaranteed a bye in the first round of the upcoming state tournament, which begins October 30th. 
The team rounds out the 

regular season with its final six 
games on the road. 
Recent action included a 4-1 

double-overtime win overTay­
lor. 
''] ean Grasso and Pat Crow­ley were instrumental in the wm," said Deleone, "and Deb­bie Raehl did a super job as goalie." 
In last weekend's tourna­

ment at Depauw, Notre Dame 
again stretched a match into 
double-overtime before finally 
6.49 5.49 6.79 5.78 6.09 5.29 24.98 

John O'Hanlon-Ciass of 1965-Sponsor, NO Volleyball 
O'Hitnlon's 
WAREHOUSE LIQUORS 
· 

WIRE FlOWERS NO -SMC 10/80 

Natural Light 24 cans Hamms 24 cans 
Blatz 24 bottles Olympia 24 bottles Weidemann 24 bottles 
Old Milwaukee 1/2 keg 
losing to the host club. 
The Irish went on to win the consolation game against Lake Forest 1-0, powered by the fine play of Kathy Rae. Rae scored the lone goal in the game, assisted by !Jar Crowley. 
And finally, in what Deleone termed a "dull but important game,'' the team defeated Kalamazoo in Michigan last Monday on a single goal by Diane Tourney. 
• • .Astros 
[continued from page 16] 
ed situation in the bottom ofthe 
ninth. 

Puhl opened the lOth with a single to right and the Astros, playing by the book, had Enos Cabell sacrifice the runner to second. Before Cabell's success­ful bunt, he popped up a ball that Philadelphia first baseman Pete Rose barely missed with a desperate dive. 
With Puhl at second, the Phillies chose to walk Joe Morgan, who had hurt them earlier with a leadoff double in the eighth. But the next batter was Cruz, Houston's underrated left fielder and the leading RBI man on the team. 
He had delivered Morgan from 

second with a single in the eighth 
and came through again with 
another hit, scoring Puhl with 
the go-ahead run. Right fielder 
Bake McBride, trying for the 
runner at the plate, threw wildly 
and the Astros had men on 
second and third. 
The Phillies made a big bid to 
win the game in the bottom of 
the ninth, loading the bases with 
one out on consecutive singles 
"We're finally jelling as a team," said first-year coach ] an Galen. "The team has been working hard and we're finally starting to score consist­ently.'' 
Thus, armed with their re­cent victories on the road the Irish bring momentum int~ the Goshen matc}1 today, as they defend an unblemished 3-0 home record. 
by Bake McBride; Mike Schmidt and Lonnie Smith, who had entered the game an inning earlier as a pinch-runner for Greg Luzinksi. 
• • . K.C. 
[continued from page 16] 
off reliever Ron Davis in the 
seventh. Wilson doubled horne 
two unearned runs in the 
eighth off Tom Underwood. 
The series resumes here 
tonight with New York's Rudy 
~ay,, 15-5,. opposing Kansas 
City s Denms Leonard, 20-11. 
A third game will be played in 
New York on Friday night with 
the fourth and fifth games, if 
necessary, Saturday and Sun­
day in Yankee Stadium. 
The Royals Stadium crowd of 42,598 ~as. the largest in Kansas City s baseball history. 
In the 11 previous AL play­offs, the winner of the first ga~e ha~ gone.on to the World Senes eight tunes. In losing the 1976, 1977 and 1978 play­offs to the Yankees, Kansas City took the opener only in 1977. 
~··································································· 
0 
§()()I?IS Sl4ffI 
-·································································· 
.,_..___.. n conceit ...,_-Notte-Dame ACC 
bting Student I t---_.9.00/S8.0 


----~-~ -~--------------------------------­


Cornerback: Dave Duerson suffers from a sprained ankle sustrned in the Michigan game. [photo by john Macor]. 
The Observer 

. Injuries 

[continued from page 16] 
but he won't be at full strength," according to Devine. Duerson, a sophomore from Muncie, Ind., suffered a badly sprained ankle against Michigan three weeks ago, and missed the MSU contest last Saturday. 
6). Starting offensive tackle Phi!'Pozderac has been listed as "probable" for Saturday's con­test. The 6-9, 260-pound junior suffered an arm contusion at Michigan State last week, but rt is not considered serious. 
7). Offensive guard Robb Gagnon, who has filled in ad­mirably for Tim Huffman in the latter's absence, is also a probable starter. Gagnon, a_ junior who has had a history of ankle problems, ·sustained a con­tusion of his leg in the Michigan game. 
H). Starting defensive tackle Don Kidd slightly bruised his knee in the MSU game, but will probably start this Saturday's con test. 
9). Reserve quarterback and placement holder Tim Koegel, who also missed last week's game against the Spartans, is listed as questionable for Saturday. Koegel, a senior, suffered a neck injury in a practice session last week. 
Conrad Terrien 
speaks on the Myth of Overpopulation 

0 
• 
0 

Thurs. Oct. 9 7:30 p.m. Lib. Aud. 
1 0). Reserve defensive endJoe Gramke, who hurt his shoulder 
in  practice  last  week,  is  also  
questionable  for  the  Miami  
game.  

II). Reserve split end Dan Stone, brother of running back­kick returner Jim Stone and flanker Chris Stone, ,underwent surgery this morning in his hometown ofSeattle, Wash., for torn cartilage in his knee. Dan, a 5-10, 170-pound junior, who was injured in the MSUe game, will miss the remainder of the 1980 season. 
12). Reserve defensive end Tony Belden, also injured against the Spartans, will be out of action for the next four to six weeks with a badly sprained knee. The 6-2, 221-pound junior hopes to return in time for the Alabama showdown on November 15. 
Once again, as was the case last season, the Irish arc experienc­ing key injuries to key personnel. Whether or not these assorted aches and pains are a factor Saturday remains to be seen. But when one faces a team who is#I3 in the country, a team who leads the nation in rushing defense, it is best to be at the fullest strength possible. The Irish, it seems, are not. 
Thursday, October 9, 1980-page 13 

The Pittsburgh Steeler Religion 
My dad introduced me to the game of football many autumns ago when I was much too young to realize all the implictions ofbeing a bona fide fan. 
At first I-couldn't understand what it was about the game that held such hypnotic appeal for the old man, who would sooner miss a meal than miss a single play. But I p!ayed the role and went along with all ofit, tagging behind to high school games and college games and kneeling reverently in front of the television during those New Years Day quadruple-headers while impatiently counting the "one Mississippi-two Mississippi" seconds that slowly clicked off the scoreboard and never quite figuring why I was doing it. or why the hell they stopped the clock every time some idiot ran out of bounds. 
And it went on that way until two very sig­nificant things occurred that forever changed my outlook on football and, consequently, on life: I turned 12 and the Pittsburgh Steelers drafted Franco Harris. (Looking back on it now, I guess drafting Harris was a little more important than turning 12.) 
It was 10 years ago and it is just like yesterday that I was sitting in Scott Petrak's basement watching Franco carry the reborn Steelers to the AFC Central division crown. Darrell Brown was there with his brother, Brad, and Art Kunkle and Dennis DiBiagio and life for all of us was Steeler games on Sunday and talk ofnothing else for every day after. 
When they won, we were in heaven. Watching Franco run was like doing it yourself. We were all charter members ofhis Italian Army three months before Frank Sinatra even knew it existed. 
But when they lost, life was unbearable. The game would end and no one would speak; just turn off the television, grab your coat and head for home. Thankfully they only lost three games that 
BAHAMAS UPDATE*** TRAVEL NIGHT MON OCT 13 • s) 
-apm O'LAUGHLIN (flight times, room arrangements, activities, etc.) REMEMBER THAT YOU NEED passport ONE Of THE FOllOWING voter registration card TO GET INTO NASSAU: copy of birth certificate \ 

season. 
But that was the beginning-or the end-for me. I had become a hopeless football addict, drawing a fix every Sunday and a quick pick-me-up on Monday nights. I don't think about how it was before. In fact, I can't really remember... 
Or maybe I just don't want to. 
I've held Steeler season tickets these past eight years and I never missed a game until I came to Notre Dame. Sunday mornings before home games were the greatest with breakfast at the Villa Rosa, located right next to the stadium and inevitably jammed with Steeler fans who have but one thing on their collective mind. 
"We got a war on our hands, fe/las, m1d we're all in this together!" 
You see, the brotherhood forged at the stadium is unique. For three or four hours the concerns of the everyday world are left at the turnstiles. Inside there is no talk of inflation or oil prices, Carter's ineptitude or Iran. The fans at the stadium have real problems to worry about. 
"How's Bradshaw's shoulder? 
"Can Stabler avoid the rush? 
"What's the wet field gonna do to Payton? 
"Are there still lines in the restnJom?!!" 
Race barriers are crossed, religious differences are forgotten... Religion? Hell, the Packers are a religion! 
[continued on page 11) 



;a 4 

f 
The 1980 Notre Dame women's tennis team. 

'I 
r-­Sports Special -ND Women's Tennis 
I 
I Quest for title begins 
by Kelly Sullivan Women's Sports Editor 
The last time Sharon Petro took a Notre )arne tennis team to a state tournament they walked away with the crown. The year was 1978. The Irish ladies posted a 7-3 slate en route to their Division III title. 
Petro took a year's absence from the courts in 1979. That season she was busy guiding Notre Dame's women's basketball squad to a 20-10 mark, and Indiana's Division III state championship. That season, the tennis squad rolled to a sparkling 9-1 record, but fell short of the state title, finishing runner-up instead. 
This season, Notre Dame moved up to division II. And Petro moved back to the tennis courts. 
Her Irish have amassed 13 vic­tories against only one loss this fall. Her tournament magic appears to be in working order for tomorrow, when she will lead the Irish contingent into 
Division II state competition as  the  
section favorite.  
''I'm  a  little  nervous,"  she  ad­ 

mits. "We've never gone into the state tourney as the top team. But I expect to do very well. This team has given me no reason not to expect that.'' 
Checking the squad's 1980 score­board, it is easy to see why Petro's expectations are anything but far­fetched. Her crew's only loss was a 5-4 decision to Northern Illinois in last weekend'sChicago-Circle tour­nament, a match played without the services of several Irish players. Earlier in the season, Notre Dame routed the Huskies 8-1. 
Another reason for optimism was evidenced in Tuesday's convincing 
Indiana AlAW Division II State Tournament Indianapolis, IN Friday_and Saturday 
October 1Oth and 11th 

Irish line -up 
PLAYER SINGLES DOUBLES Cindy Schuster, Sr. 12-7 3-5 Linda Hoyer, So. 10-2 16-6 Pam Fischette, Fr. 13-0 19-1 Carol Shukis, Jr. 19-3 6-5 Mary Legeay, Jr. 7-0 12-0 Peggy Walsh, Jr. 13-7. 1-0 Tina Stephan, Jr. 3-0 13-5 Sheila Cronin, Sr. 13-1 9-1 Stasia Obremskey, Jr. 3-2 fH Sue Pratt, Fr. 4-1 3-0 
victory over perenial _power Butler, the Division II defending champion. The Bulldogs, who were tagged as the team that would give Notre Dame its toughest competition in state play, fell victim to the Irish in a dual match, 8-1. 
Should anyone begin to wonder why the other eight teams bother showing up Friday, the Irish do have a few problems to contend with in Indianapolis. 
Number-one singles player Cindy 
Schuster is battling tendon damage 
in her hand that has sidelined the 
senior since the Chicago competi­
tion. She faces a tough route to a 
singles championship. If Notre Dame 
is the team to beat, then Schuster's 
opponent, assuming both reach the 
finals as expected, could be dubbed 
the player to beat. Sarah Fee, 
Butler's number-one singles star, is 
the tournament's first seed in that 
bracket. 

"Cindy is able to play with pain," 
says her coach. "If she plays well 
she shouldn't have much of a 
problem. 

Schuster is no stranger to state 
titles, having captured two of them 
her freshman year at St. Mary's, 
playing number-three singles and 
number-two doubles. 
Another question mark facing 
Petro surrounds fifth singles and second doubles star Mary Legeay. The talented junior also suffers from tendon damage in her hand, and has not played for the past couple of 
weeks. 

Legeay boasts a 7-0 and 12-0 record· at singles and doubles, re­spectively, and has nabbed a state , crown at number-five singles in each ofher first two years at Notre Dame. 
Cronin succeeds as player, captain 
by Craig C~val Sports Wnter 
For as long as she can remember, peo_ple have had an impossible time tellmg Sheila Cronin and her doubles partner apart. Because for as long as she can remember, Sheila has play­ed with her twin sister Laura. 
Cronin no longer has that pro­blem. 
This fall, when Laura decided to forgo her senior season, Sheila had to come up with a new partner. So she decided to play with junior Stasia Obremskey. The new partners are as different in appearance as night and day. But the brown-haired Cronin, who stands 5-2, insists that had nothing to do with her decision. 
''After tryouts were over, people were starting to pick their partners, and Stasia didn't have one. I knew she was a ~ood doubles player, so I asked her 1f she wanted to give it a try." explains Cronin, who neglects to add that her new partner is a statuesque blonde, who towers a­bove her at 5-11. 
But you can't argue with success, and Cronin and Obremskey certainly have had their share. The pair has compiled a 6-1 mark since unseating Cindy Schuster and Carol Shukis at number-three doubles, including a key victory that enabled the Irish to upset the University of Illinois 5-4 in last weekend's University of Illinois­Chicago Circle Classic. 
In addition to her doubles success, Cronin, who was voted Notre Dame's captain i:!y her teammates, nas sparkled at singles for the 13-1 Irish. Her 13-1 ledger includes fourth singles championships at the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Tournament and the Irish Invitational. 
Thursday, October 9, 1980-page 14 

''I played singles for almost my entire high school career, but when I came here, I played doubles because I had a better chance of getting into the lineup that way," Cronin say~. "You usually play your top s1x players at singles lineup, but I never quite made it until this year. • 
Playin~ doubles is a lot of fun, but I like, smgles better because it's more of an accom~lishment.'' 
In its infinite w1sdom, the AlA W has ruled that only the state cham­pion is eligible to advance to 
regional play. as opposed to last year's format which sent the top two squads-putting an even greater emphasis on the team aspect. 
"I don't think that's much of a problem for us," says Cronin. "For one thing, we've always done well in the state tournament in the past, and we've always stressed a team effort. 
"Whatever players aren't playing at the time are always watchmg the other matches, especially when somebody is having a hard time. We've never even had to talk about the team concept.'' 
Cronin similiarly dismisses the importance ofher position as captain of the squad. 
"I think the biggest thing about it is'being able to talk with everyone on the team, even people that you 
' might not otherwise get along with,'' she says. "I try to talk with every­body on the team as much as I can, but I don't think of myself as the captain or see myself as a step above everybody else. Most things have gone very well so far-the team really works together on its own.'' 
While Cronin might downplay the significance of her captain's job, het. impact on the squad isn't lost on head coach Sharon Petro. 
"Sheila does a tremendous job of 
She and doubles partner Pam Fischette are the state's top seeded second doubles pair. 
''I'd like to see Mary do well this Friday," noted Petro, "She's been the state champion for the past two years and it'd be nice to see that continue." 
The rest ofNotre Dame's lineup is composed of veteran tournament players as well. Sophomore sensa­tion Linda Hoyer is the defending state and regional champ at number­two singles, and owns a 10-2 mark this season. Hoyer and partner Tina Stephan are the top seeded tandem at number-one doubles. They com­piled a 13-5 ledger this fall. 
Fischette will remain at third singles, while junior Carol Shukis holds down the fourth spot. Shukis' · 36 career singles victories exceed the all time Notre Dame record of 34, set by 1979 graduate Paddy Mullen. 
Peggy Walsh is Notre Dame's sixth player. 1The third doubles team of captain Sheila Cronin and Stas!a Obremskey will aid the Irish in their 
title quest as well. 

There is a slight departure from last y~ar's tournament format. Pre­viously, the top two teams in the tourney advanced to regional play, but this season, only the state champ will move on. Individual pl~yers will, however, continue to quality if they win their flight. 
Petro has made her goals quite clear. "We want to win the state championship. Our attitude is a defimte plus. These girls are fight­ers. They don't give up. A lot of our wins have been due to their deter­mined attitude--and I'll take that over high level skill any day. 
Petro will not have to make a choice between the two, for her tennis contingent appears to possess both the physical and mental ability needed to earn the Irish yet another 
state title. 

leading by example," says Petro. "She's very mature and very res­ponsible. The fact that she might not realize how important her leadership is says a lot about how smoothly our season has gone. And she deserves a lot of the credit for that." 
More than anything else, thou~h, Cronin would like credit for helpmg 

Sheila Cronin 

the Irish to the Division II state championship tomorrow and Satur­day. 
"We're really confident, but in the back of my mind, I have this fear because I know we should do well," she says. "This whole week has been very tense. I want to do well this week and then prove that we can do well at regionals.'' 
Whether she realizes it or not, Sheila Cronin plays a big role in any success the Irish enjoy. And now that her identity crisis is. solved, maybe she'll get the credit she deserves. 
~ 
1 
~ 
I 
l The Observer Thursday,October 9, 1980-page 15 --I I ~ 

-
r,__ 
' 
Sf?Orts 
K.C., Houston -win 
Royals Astros 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP)­PHILADELPHIA (AP)­Yankee-killer Larry Gura survi­Slap-hitting. Terry\ Puhl, who 
ved consecutive record-setting home runs in the second inning and Frank White, Willie Aik­ens and Willie Wilson deliver­ed two-run hits Wednesday, leading the Kansas City Royals to a 7-2 victory over New York in the opening game of the best-of-five American League Championship Series. 
Gura, an ex-Yankee who has won his last seven regular-sea­son decisions from his old club but was only 1-2 against them in playoff action, settled down after surrendering a double in each of the first three innings, as well as home runs by R1ck Cerone and Lou Piniella with one out in the second inning. It was the first time consecutive home runs had been hit in AL playoff history. 
The veteran left-bander not­ched his first victory since Aug. 25 by checking the Yan­kees on five singles after the third inning. 
The Royals pounded New York's Ron Guidry for four runs on five hits and four walks in "the first three innings. White tied the score with a two-run double in the second, Aikens put the Royals on top 4-2 with a two-run single in the third and George Brett, the major league batting champ­ion, slammed a solo home run 
· [continued on /Jal!,e 12] lcontinued on page 12] 
For Courey 
Mission Impossible 
earlier drove in two runs with· a single and a double, ignited Houston's winning rally with a lOth-inning hit as the Astros­erupted for four runs to beat Philadelphia 7-4 in the second game of the National League Championship Series W ednes­day night. 
Jose Cruz's second run scoring single of the game snapped a tie in the lOth and gave Houston a split of the first two games in this best-of-five pennant playoff. Games three and four are scheduled for the Astrodome tomorrow and Saturday and a fifth game, if needed, would be played Sunday. ' 


Puhl, who sat on the bench against left-bander Steve Carlton 

Senior quarterback Mike ' in the opener of this series Courey has had a troublesome · Tuesday night, moved into the career at Notre Dame. The 6-2, lineup as part of Manager Bill 200-pounder has rushed 20 
times for 73 yards, completed
Virdon' s southpaw-swinging 

20 of 36 passes for 261 yards
platoon and the switch paid off 

and helped account for three
handsomely. 

touchdowns thus far in 1980.
Twice, early in the game, Puhl 

[photo by john MacorJ. 
made Philadelphia starter Dick Ruthven pay for his wildness, 
Freshman Blair Kiel has
helping to cash in bases on balls 

replaced Coure'V in the last two 
with clutch hits. But his biggest 

Irish wins. It has not been 
hit came opening the lOth after 

officially announced whether the Astros had escaped a Courey or Kiel wzll start the frightening one-out, ba§e~tload-Miami game on Saturday. 
Your mi.rJion, Mr. Courey, .rhouldyou decide to accept it, is to quarterback the Universr~y of Notre Dame football team untr! we are able to find a smtable replacement. As always, ifyou or any members ofthe Irish are caught, or killed, the head coach will deny any knowledge of your actions. Goodluck, Mike. This tape wrllself-destruct infive .reconds. 
It began as a trickle, sparked by the final 41 seconds of theNotre Dame-Michigan game. It was 
fueled  during  the  second  half of last  week's  
Michigan State game.  
And  now,  with  all  the  momentum  of  an  

avalanche, it 1s a full-fledged rumor. Its per­petrators don't even bother to whisper any­more-Blair Kiel is going to start at quarterback Sautrday, they tell anyone who will listen. They may well be right. 
Which is all well and good. The freshman phenom has proven himself under fire, first .1gainst Michigan and then against Michigan State. He's shown an ability to pass, an ability to run and 
no.st importantly, a poise and maturity that belies ,1is youth. 
But even a business student knows that every ·tction has an equal and opposite reaction. Which, :n this case, is not good. Because it means that \like Courey won't start at quarterback for Notre Dame Saturday. 
And there's something not quite right about :hat. 
I suppose it was inevitable, that Courey, who has ,pent his four years at Notre Dame at three .lifferent positions, but mostly on the bench, ·.vould eventually give way to one of the heralded freshmen quarterbacks. 
It was said that Courey's strong suit was running the ball, but Kiel has shown that he too, can run the ball. And even a new SALT accord wouldn't come close to establishing parity in the arms race between Courey and Kiel. 
But if Mike Courey was a puppet quarterback, the Soviets would do well to take a few notes. If their government in Afghanistan were half as successful as the Courey regime, Leonid Brezhnev would have a lot fewer sleepness nights. 
IfMike Courey never plays another down, he'll e:raduate in May with a4-0 record as Notre Dame's 
Craig 

Chval 


,mrting quarterback, a winning percentage that is certain to stand the test of time. 
It's not the fact that Courey has led the Irish to a 3-0 mark in 1980 that deserves the attention, though. It's how he went about it. 
People shouldn't remember his sparkling 10­for-13 peformance against Purdue, when he accounted for better than 200 yards of total offense. Instead, they should think back on the game against Michigan two weeks later, when Courey was yanked in the final41 seconds in favor of young Kiel. And after rhe game he told everyone within earshot that he would have made the same move had he been in head coach Dan Devine's shoes. 
Or go back even further, to 1977, when as a freshman, Courey completed two crucial halfback option passes to contribute to Notre Dame's national championship. Or the following season, when Tom Domin's knee injury left the Irish hurting for a flanker. So Courey stepped in and started against Michigan State. 
In his four years, Mike Courey has done whatever Notre Dame has asked ofhim. And now, it looks like the Irish will ask Courey and his 4-0 record to -take a seat on the bench Saturday afternoon. 
It just doesn't seem fair to tell someone who has never lost a game that he isn't good to start anymore. 
That is not to say the decision, if indeed it is the decision that Dan Devine ends up making, is a bad one. Often times the best decisions are the least fair ones. And the ll].OSt painful ones. 
So, if the rumors are true, Mike Courey will spend Saturday afternoon standing on the side­lines, cheering for Blair :Kiel. And he'll do it the same way he's done everything else at Notre Dame. With class. 
Congratulations, Mike, on a successful mission. 
Thursday, October 9, 1980-page 16 

Multiple injuries plague Notre Dame's line-up 
by Chris Needles Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame foQtball team, while acquiring three vic­to"fies in three games so far this season, has also acquired a num­ber of nagging injuries to key players. And as the Irish head into one of their toughest games of the season this Saturday against 13th-ranked Mianii (Fla.), these injuries may finally begin to take their toll. 
Following is the lengthy casualty list, complete with res­pective injuries and chances for playing on Saturday: 
1). It was announced yesterday that junior strong safety Steve Cichy, who chipped a vertebrae on the opening kickoff against Purdue, has been "redshirted" and will not play for the re­mainder of the 1980 season. In making the announcement, Head Coach Dan Devine cited "confliCting medical opinions" regarding a possible reinjury to Cichy's neck as the reason for the decision. 
"Before Steve's injury, I rated him as one of the top three players on our team," Devine said. "But he was more than a player. He was like an extension of the coaching staff on the field. I know his final two years will be great ones." 
Cichy, a 6-2, 215-pounder from Fargo, N.D., was under­standably disappointed by yes­terday's turn ofevents. "Sure, it's a disappointment, he said,"es­pecially since this is Coach Devine's last year here. It just seems like they (the doctors who e::bmined him) were playing with my mind. First I was told I couldn't play, and then the "experts" said that I could. Now they say I can't again." 
Those "experts" that Cichy referred to were the physicians from the renowned Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., who exa­mined him last week and gave him a clean bill ofhealth, thereby allowing him to resume work­
outs. 
Cichy now has two years of eligibility remaining, because NCAA rules permit a player injured in the first two regularly scheduled games to retain the season's eligibility. 
2). Halfback Phil Carter, cur­rently the second leading rusher in the country, suffered a badly bruised thigh and other assorted bruises in last Saturday's victory on Michigan State's concrete­hard astroturf. Devine said yesterday that it will be "another day or two" before it is known whether Carter will be in the lineup Saturday. 
Carter, a sophomore, has been 
on crutches and in and out ofthe 
infirmary all week long, and has 
not practiced at all this week. 
3). Tight end Dean Masztak 
sprained his left ankle in yester­

I 
I 
day's practice onCartier Field. As 
of last night, it was not known 
how serious the sprain is, or 
Masztak's status for the Miami 
game. 
4). Senior offensive guard Tim 
Huffman, who had been pencil­
ed in as a starter this week after 
missing the first three contests 
with a broken foot, reinjured 
that same foot during practice 
yesterday, and it is doubtful that 
he will see action on Saturday. 
5). Starting cornerback Dave 
Duerson "will play (on Saturday) 
[continued on page 13] 


Iris~ offensive guard Tim Huffman reinjured his ankle in practzce yesterday. Huffman joins Irish starters Dean Masztak, Phil Carter, Dave Duerson, Phzl Pozderac, Robb 
• Gagnon and Don Kidd on the ''questionable'' list for Saturday's game with Miami ofFlonda. 
The Irish injury-woes grew yesterday when junior Steve Cichy was red-shirted for the remainder ofthe season with a neck injury. For a detatl injury report see story above. 







