... Alumniwins -Page 8 
s 
Tickets release platforms for upcoming elections 
Abelardo L. Valdez, chief of protocal for the United States, met with Fr. Theodore Hesburgh before giving a lecture last Fn"day night. [photo by Phzl johnson] 
Thief takes student to cleaners 
by Mary Fran Callahan Senior StaffReporter 
Four bags of laundry were stolen from Stanford Hall last week and the theft has led a student to question University liability. 
Tom Melsheimer, of Stanford Hall, said he dropped off his laundry and when he went to claim it, laundry officials said they never received any of his clothes. Melsheimer estimated the value of his laundry to be between $80-$100. He said initially Bob Watkins, director of Student Support, had tentatively "tossed around'' the idea of reimbursing him 60 percent the cost of the clothes. Watkins later in the week then told Melsheimer that he had been advised by University officials 
that no recompense could be made, according to the student. 
Yesterday afternoon, Watkins declined to comment on the incident. 
Me I s h e i m e-r c o n t a c ted Timothy McDevitt, assistant general counsel for the Univer­sity, last w~ek to question University liability. McDevvit said, according to Melsheimer, that he could not legally advise!! the University to even partially compensate for the theft since such a move would set a precedent. 
Currently, DuLac states 

"the University cannot assume any responsibility for laundry items until they are received by the laundry." University officials used this regulation to justify non-reimbursement and told Melsheimer to report the theft to security. 
"I don't think the DuLac regulation is fair,'' Melsheimer 

Harrassment 

Sophomore accuses security 
by Margie Brassil SMC News Editor 
Gordon Geraci, an ND sophomore accused Notre Dame security officials of verbal abuse and harrassment last night following an altercation at the Main Gate security station. The incident reportedly occured when Geraci tried to get his ID back from three officers at the gate, in exchange for a 15 minute pass. 
According to Geraci he tried to retrieve his ID after parking his car in the D-2 parking lot. After the officers refused to return the pass without seeing the car, Geraci returned to his room and called the Main Security Office. Accoriding to Geraci, a patrol car was sent to verify that his car was in the lot and then he was told it was all right to claim his ID. 
Geraci said that after returning to the Main gate he made a wise-crack to the guards. He reponed that one of the guards then flared up, throwing off his badge, claiming to resign, ancl swearing at Geraci. He alleges that the guard then moved as if tostrike him but was restrained by one of the other guards. 
The second guard then began to indirectly threaten Geraci saying, "I've decked other people for doing less than you," according to Geraci. The officers finally gave Geraci his ID and shut the door on him. 
When contacted last night, one of the officers denied the charges, but all three refused to comment further. 
said, "It's nof a highly publicized thing. I think students should be aware of this if they've got a dangerous drop off point,'' he added. 
He criticized the presentsystem's legal obligation when he commented, "There is a grey area there which no one is responsible for." Melsheimer 
[continued on page 3] 
by Mary Leavitt StaffReporter 
Two tickets released plat­forms last night announcing their intentions to run for Student Government positions at Saint Mary's College for the 1980-1981 academic year, ac­cording to Election Commis­sioner Mary Mullaney. 
Running on one ticket are Kathleen Sweeney for student body president, Joan McCarthy for vice-president of Academic Affairs and Nini Stoll for vice­president of Student Affairs. The second ticket is comprised of Sue Scheiber who is running for Student Body President, Bernie Calatco for Vice­President for Ac1demic Affairs and Marie Liz Hackl for Vice­President of Student Affairs. 
The Sweeney ticket's plat­form is divided into four major areas -student life, academic life, social and athletic. 
In the area of student life, Sweeney hopes to implement the use of such services as consumer cards which would enable St. Mary's students to enjoy discounts at local stores and Rent-A-Student directories containing the names of stu­dents who could offer such services as typing or tutoring. 
Academically, the Sweeney ticket hopes to employ the use of Scholarship Literature which would outline opportunities available and explainin~ eligi­bility criteria, ,plus deadltnes for such grants as Rotary, Rhodes and Fulbright awards. In addition, the ticket endorses the use of pre-profesional guidance. 
Proposed social activities in­clude a political week featuring federal, state and local govern­ment officials and club house entertainment fe~.turi11g local musical and drama talents. 
In the area of athletics, the ticket proposes a fall Olympics Week and cardio-pulmanary resucitation and water safety instruction courses. 
Scheiber's ticket "student government of Saint Mary's has as its primary aim the welfare of the students as members of the college community in both the academic and co-curricular areas," as quoted in the Stu­dent Government Manual. 
Some of the Scheiber ticket's ideas for the 1980-81 academic year include a possible shuttle bus after football games, run­ning between the grotto and Holy Cross, and a weekly, informal "be-heard brunch" at which an officer would be present to listen to students' comments and suggestions. 
In addition, Scheiber hopes to communicate feedback from the Holy Cross nuns to the students concerning the chan­neling of funds, with regard to the Student Mission Care pro­gram and to continue the speaker series with the ob-­jective of presenting those speakers whom the student 
[continued on page 4] 



Bush, Reagan intensify efforts to blunt Andersonpopularity in Illinois primary 
CHICAGO (AP) -With Gerald 
R. Ford out of the picture, Ronald Reagan and George Bush intensified their efforts yesterday to blunt John B. Anderson's popularity in ad­vance of the pivotal Illinois primary this week. 
Bolstered by fresh triumphs in Democratic caucuses in South Carolina, Mississippi and Wyoming, President Carter was headed for his crucial test in Illinois on Tuesday as an easy 

' favorite over Sen. Edward M. Kennedy. The early turnout yesterday in Puerro Rrco's presidential pri­mary, pitting Carter and Ken­nedy, was de5cribed as heavy. At stake are 41 ddegates to the Democratic National Conven­tion in August. Bush won Puerto Rico's winner-take-all GOP primary last month. Reagan, locked in a tight race with Anderson in Illinois for its 102 GOP National C(li1Ven­tion delegates, suggested yes­terday that Anderson might consider leaving the Republican Party. 
Reagan referred to the Illinois congressman's "inaoiliry to support Republican candidates, his tnability to go along with the philosophy'' of the GOP. The former California governor, however, said he wasn't pro­posing that Anderson be vision and que~tioned ~t a news thrown out of t~e parry. confere~ce, sa1d that if Ande_r­
Bu~h meanwhde . scheduled a son be!Je~es _what he has sa1d hectic day of election-eve cam-about soc1al 1ssues, he should p~ig~ing today in downstate ''ask ~imself ifhe is in t~e ri~ht Ilhno1s. The former U. N. plac~ as a GOP prestdentlal ambassador and _Texas. con-candidate. gr~ss~an was runm~g a distant Reagan ~a~ cl~arly rankled by th1rd m the polls behmd Reagan Anderson s md1canon that he and Anderson. . . could not support Reagan as the 
With two d,ays rem~mmg _be-GOP presidential nomi~ee. fore th~ year~ first pnmary m a And Rea~an was obv10usly large mdustnal state, Reagan pleased wtth Ford's announce­demonstrated _that And~rson's ment Saturday that _he would s'!dden S';Jrge m populanty has not enter the Republican race. h1m worr1~d. . 
[continued on p.~ge 4]
Reagan, mterv1ewed on tele­..-----------------------------. 


...--------------­
-~--~---­

News in brief 
St. Patrick's Day-page 2 


St. Patrick's Day
Deposedshah returns to exile home after hospitalization Profs discuss Irish tradition 
The way Americans celebrate St. Patrick's Day is offensive to natives of Ireland, according to a couple of Irishmen at the Universiry of Notre Dame. 
''When it reached the stage of selling buttons that read 'Kiss me I'm Irish,' it losr all touch with the 5t. Patrick's Day of Ireland. The Irish call practices like this 'shamrock­ery,"' Sean V. Golden, an Irish native and assistant professor ofEnglish at Notre Dame, said. 
"I used to find the festivities offensive, the green beer and all," said Michad J. Clancy, who was born in County Clare and is now a Ph.D. candtdate at Notre Dame. "But now I give the charity of my silence. The behavior ts a bit boorish, but what I find most offensive is the music passed off here in the States as Irish has nothing to do with authentic traditional Irish music," he added. 
The coming of St. Patrick's Day is met in the United States with parades, green beer, festive drinking, music and 

dancing,  "the wearin'  of the  
green,''  shamrocks,  lepre­ 
chauns,  the  blarney  stone,  

"Erin go bragh," and claims, valid and otherwise, of an Irish ancestor perched in the family tree. 

In Ireland St. Patrick's Day is a Holy Day of Obligation, one of several days set aside by the Roman Catholic Church to commemorate saints and other religious events. Mass atend­ance is mandatory. And because Patrick is a patron saint of Ireland, whose popula­tion is 95 rer cent Catholic, it is a nationa holiday. 
"Paddy's Day is not cele­brated that much in Ireland,'' Clancy said. ''The one custom that might be said to be typically Irish is that everyone wears a shamrock. Everyone is appropriately adorned with a ntce fresh shamrock, taking pride in the fact that it doesn't grow anywhere else." 
1be Observer. 
Night Editor:]ohn Smith 
Asst.  Night  Editor:  Teri  
Michielutti  · will miss  you,  
John!  

Copy Editor: Lynne Daley News Editor: Margi<: Brassil Editon'al La)'out: Greg Hedges Sports Layout: Beth Huffman Typists: Paula "advantage" Shea, Bill Swift, Mary Beth Budd, Marilyn Broderick EMT Mike "Doctor" Galvin Proofreader: Rick Freedman 1\'D Day Editor: Bob Bernoskie SMC Day Editor: Peggy Schneeman Ad Design: Dave Wood, Anne Fink Photographer: Greg Maurer Guest Appearances: Tim ''front page picture'' Hamilton, Mary "I confess" Leavitt, Megan "kiss me I'm Irish'' Boyle 
The Observer [USPS 511 920J Is published Monday through Frttlay ex­cept during exam and vacatiln piriods. The Observer Is publilllld by the students of Natrl D11111 nd Saint hbry's Cllllgt. Sublcripllla lillY Ill purdsned •• S2ll per ,.., 1111 per semattrllrtm The Observer, 1'.0. blx 
a. Metre ballll, lllldlau ... s-et cllu =paid, Nltrl Da1111, In­

diana . 
The Observer It a lllllllller II 1111 ~tid l'raa. AN •+.-ctllw rigllts .... i'lllfWd. 
'I. '.J. I (I 

L-------------------------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~-------------~·----·­
PANAMA CI1Y, Panama (AP) -Deposed Shah Mohamad Reza Pahlavi rerurned yesterday to his home-in-exile on the resort island of Contadora after his doctors announced they would delay removal of his inflamed spleen until his condition is "optimal." 
Morse denied a Panamanian doctor's statement that the shah's hospitalization had been a "false alarm" involving pneumonia. He said the shah had been admitted to Paitilla hospital on the outskirts of Panama City for an examination of his spleen, which might be canerous, and nothing else. 

Carter wins vote in P.R., battlesfor delegate majority 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico (AP) -President Carter won the popular vote in Puerto Rico's presidential primary yesterday, but he was locked in a see-saw battle with Sen. Edward M. Kennedy for the majority of the island's 41 delegates. 




In Ivy League expenses, 
Harvard ranks top billing 
PROVIDENCE, R. I. (AP) -Harvard will be the most expensive Ivy League school in 1980-81 with fees totaling $9,378, a 12.5 percent /·ump over this school year's fees, a Brown Universtty news etter reports. 
Charges at the other seven schools and the increase over current fees are: Yale, $9,200, 1.8 percent; the Universiry of PenPsylvania, $9,020, 12.1 p.~rcent; Brown $8,865, 13.1 percent; Dartmouth, $8,811, 12.9 percent; Princeton, $8,761, 
12.2 percent; Cornell, $8,419, 11.4 percent; and Columbia, $8,715, 12 percent. 
Individual income taxes 


provide greatest revenue 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Income taxes on individuals prO\ ide the largest source of government income, amounting to nearly halfof all revenues collected in the 1977-78 fiscal year, according to a Census Bureau study released resterday. 
Tax collections for federal, state and loca government totaled $468 billion in thatJear, the study said. Of this, individual income taxed pai $214 billion. 


Weather 
Showers and a few thundershowers. A morning high of around 50 with steady or slowly falling temperatures for the remainder of the day. Rain ending early tonight and turn~ng colder. Lows from 25 to 30. Mostly sunny tomorrow. Htgh in the upper 30s to low 40s. 


CamP-us 
1-3 pm EXHIBITION "ceramics," by patricia brophy. ISIS GALLEPY. 
6:30pm PITT CLUB pitt bus sign-ups. LA FORTUNE LITfi.E THEATRE. 
6:45 pm ROSARY daily at the GROTTO. 
8:15 pm CONCERT nd piano trio. no admission. LIB. AUD. 
10 pm MEETING fellowship of christian athletes. discussion and reflection. DillON HAll CHAPEL. 
10 pm MEETING students united for responsible energy, (sure) BASEMENT OF LAFORTIJNE. 
11-12 pm WSND RADIO "talk it up," radio call-in show. m.ary anne !JUghes and chris stewart on abortion, (pro & con) wtth host pat toomey. sponsored by wsnd news. call in at 6400 or 7425 WSND AM 64. 
Other than wearing a sprig of few pints of stout. It was live shamrock, the day is otherwise an uneventful day." treated like any Sunday. "The St. Patrick's Day "Everyone goes· to Mass," parade and Irish festival began Golden, a specialist in Irish m this country as a demonstra­literature, said. tion of power in response to the 
"After Ma~s. the women go discrimination prevalent home to cook and the men • against Irish Catholics,'' 
~ather at the pub. They order 
a halfone,' which is something like a shot, drop the shamrock into it and 'drown the sham­rock.' It does get .rather festive after Mass." . 
"You must remember, too,\' he added, "that St. Patrick's Day comes in the middle ofLent and gives people a day to enjoy what they have given up "for Lent." 
"It is a rest stop in the middle of l..ent," Clancy said. ''In a small village like Kihmihin, where I grew up, one or two pubs are noted for good stout. The social life of a village centers around these pubs where musicians congregate and drink a few pints. On Paddy's Day and typical Sundays the women will return and dance a few sets. If something is going on and if the music is good, the peoP,le may stay until closing time. ' 
"The larger cities, Dublin, Galway and Cork, have Irish American marching bands and parades," Clancy added. "When I was a student in Galway, I'd go to see the 
American bands and drink a Golden explained. "At base, they were political events. The first St. Patrick's Day parade in Ireland occurred in the 1960's. It was instituted by the Irish 
• tourist board in imitation of the American parades for all the Irish American tourists wanting to be in Dublin on St. Patrick's Day." According to one chronicler, the earliest record found of Irishmen meeting on American soil to honor St. Patrick was in 1737 in Boston, when a group of Irish Protestants met to form the Irish Society of Boston. It was a charitable organization intended to help countrymen still living in Ireland. It was . opened to Catholics in 1742. 
Similar meetings of convivi­ality became commonplace with the growing number of Irish fraternal organizations. Soldiers fighting under Gen. George Washington, one-third to one-half Irish, also cele­brated the feast day of their native country's patron saitn. "One story I recall," Clancy said, "is set in the Yukon 
[continued on page 4J 

JUNIORS LASTCHANCE!  
LASTDA YTO SIGN UP FOR. BOOK PORTRAITS WILL ..BE WEDNESDAY, MARCH 19  
CALL35570RSTOP BY2CLAFORTUNENOJJ THIS IS THE LASTCHANCE THIS YEAR  

BREAK TIME DIRECT O'HARE $15 EXPRESS $15 
from NOTRE DAME CIRCLE 
arrive 5:30pm 11:30am 

March 27 depart 4pm 
March28 I lOam 
lpm 

2:30p~ ~----.FIRST BANK TRAVEL 
Badin Hall 


283-7080 


The Observer St. Patrick's Day-page 3 
Scott 
•
gtves final SLF 
•


presentatton 
By Kelli Flint Senior StaffReporter 

Author Scott Spencer gave the final presentation of the Sophomore Literary Festival Saturday in the Library Audi­torium_ 
Spencer read excerpts from his latest novel, Endless Love. According to Spencer, the novel took over three years to write. ''By the time I was half-way finished with the work, my initial motivation was gone,'' he said. ''All that I wanted to do was complete the novel.'' 
Enless Love deals with the topic of puppy love. It centers on the effects of puppy love on David Axelrod, _ a. teen-age Chicagoan. ''I can identify with David,'' Spencer said. ''He is the least self regarding of persons. He never thought of himself, only the girl he loved.'' 
Spencer added that the purpose of Endless Love was to point out the seriousness of puppy love. "Puppy love is a sensitive, emotional experi­ence," he said. "It should be treated as a more serious matter than 1t IS now considered.'' 
Spencer also noted that the quality of writing never changes. "There are many first-rate writers in publishing today," he said. "There are. also many shockingly terrible' books on today's bestseller list. We're the same as we were fifty years ago. Things haven't changed that much at all." 
Spencer felt that the current trend for writing autobiograJ?h­ies is an annoying one which may serve a useful purpose in the future. "It's annoying that public figures who commit crimes can write books about 
Tuesday's primary ,_ 
Facu1ty, students predict lllinois outcome ~ 
by Chip Block 

Professors and students ex­pressed varying views on the outcome of tomorrow's...Illinois primary and the impaCt it will have on the final selection of the Democratic and Republican battle between Ronald Reagan and John Anderson. 
The majority of the people questioned agreed that Ander-. son had a good thance of winning the primary, bur The affect of an Anderson win on the remaining primaries was debated. 
Peri Arnould, chairman of the Government and International Studies Department, stated, ''A win by Anderson will lead to better performance Tr, Tater primaries.'' Arnold said that the momentum from the win could even give Anderson a win in California-. 
Another governn.ent profes­sor, John Roos, disagreed. "A win by Anderson would make him a 50 co 1 chance to win the nomination. He is now a 100 to 1 chance," he said. 
Arnold cited Anderson's re­cenf campa!gncofitnbutions as an indication of his growing momentum. 'He has received as much money in the first week in March as he did in the entire month .o£ Eebruary,'' Amold said. 
. . . Cleaners 
(continued from page 1] 
added that he is out ''100 percent.'' 
Following officials' advice, the student did report the theft to security. On his own initiative, he wrote a letter to University President, Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. 
Though the University does not at present intend to compensate Melsheimer, they will let a paid security man investigate the theft. 
''There has been an investigator assigned to locate my dirty underwear!" Melsheimer commented. But, he added, "l don't really think the situation is funny. I'm resolved to the fact that I'll be picking up the tab for my clothes." 
Security acknowledged yesterday that Melsheimer did report the theft and that they cur~ently have a man investi­gaung. 
Melsheimer said the entire incident has left him with a "sour impression" of Univer­sity Busmess affairs. He intimated that he received a lack of cooperation from Laundry Service officials. --He said he would call the Laundry Seryi_ce_offi(;~aJs an_d be. told that they ''would get back to him within the hour." 
''The only time they called me back was when they told me they weren't going to do any­thing. I constantly had to call them through out the week,'' Melsheimer explained. 
Fr. Hesburgh acknowledged Melsheimer's letter Friday night with a phone call, but Melsheimer said he "seriously doubts" the University will renege_ on its decision. 
Melsheimer will continue to utilize the University laundry for the remainder of the semester since he has already paid for the service. But he said he will now deliver his laundry in person and save his receipts until he has clean clothes in hand. Next year, he intends to clean his own clothes. 

''The laundry service knows if they say your laundry was stolen before they got it, they don't have to pay a dime. People should know they should be a little more careful," Melsheimer said. 
Roos, on the other hand, brought up the point that Anderson has very ltttle chance of carrying the western and southwestern states. Because of these states, he said, he gives Anderson little chance to win the Republican nomination. Students also expressed dif­ferent views on tomorrow's election. Larry Hau, campaign chairman for Anderson at the 
Mock Convention, said, "If Anderson wins it would make · him an alternative to Reagan.'' 
Hau stressed that Anderson woud have a better chance in the general election than Rea­gan. According to Hau, Ander­son's liberality would attract more Democrats and In­dependents . 
Greg Folley, the campaign chairman for Reagan at the Mock Convention, said that he believed Reagan would win in Illinois. He called Anderson supporters ''unpredictable'' and predicted a strong Reagan turnout. 
Both Roos and Arnold agreed that President Jimmy Carter has the best chance of winning the Illinois Democratic pri­mary. According to Arnold, Kennedy is relying on the support of Chicago Mayor Jayne Byrne to carry the elec­tion. 
Arnold stated that Anderson would make a strong showing as the Republican nominee. He said the country is too conserva­tive for a Kennedy, but not for an Anderson. The big ques­tion, according to Arnold, is whether Anderson can shift his strategy to accomodate his new found success in the primaries. 
themselves and make enough money from them to pay their legal fees and buy a new home in Mexico," Spencer said. 
''Authors are free to write about what they please, according to the first amend­ment. The public chooses the books that they want to buy. Someday these books may provide useful documents about our past," he added. 
Spencer is currently writing another novel. "I never talk about a novel before finishing it," Spencer said. "You can talk yourself out ofwork. When you constantly talk about what you are writing, you take away the energy and motivation to finish the work.'' 
According the Chuck Russo, Executive Council member of the Sophomore Literary Festival, the festtival was well attended. "We had an excel­lent group of literary figures this year, " . he sa~?. "It was a good expenence. 

HAIR DESIGNS FOR THE AWARE MAN AND WOMAN 


SPECIAL OFFER 
Free Redken Shampoo and Conditioner With any haircut $3sovalue ~EDKEN (GOODTHRU MARCH 31 HOURS MON,TUE,WED ONLY) 
Mon. 8:~0-~·nn Thurs. 8:30-8:30 'For an Appolntm•nt,l Tves. 8·30-~·?' Fri 8·30-6·.10 wed. 8 J0-6 30 Sot 8 oo-4 oo Call 234-6767 


St. Patrick'sDay-page 4 
The Observer 
... Tradition ATTENTION: Observer 
::-[c_o_n_ti_nu_e_d_fo_o_m_p_ag_e_2_J____le-p-re-ch_a_u_n_'s-h-ea_v_y_b_r_o_w_:_an_d::.._::__~_o..::o=n_:_P=-a~dy' s Day now they are snorts staff and th0Se 
during the gold rush there. On St. Patrick's Day a Scot pulled 
our his pipes and began playing, which started the Irish on an unmericful drinking spree." 
According to Godlen, many of the symbols associated with rhe Irish have also been altered since crossing the Atlantic. For example, the leprechaun, the lirrle fellow who lives under a roadsrool near the pot of gold at rhc-rainbow's end, was used by rhe English centuries ago to ~epicr the Irish as "supersti­uous and backwards," Golden 'aid. ''English political 'a110onisrs often portrayed the lnsh as baboons dressed as ieprechauns, w show the Irsh as an inferior race. The 
. . . Bush 

!continued fmr.t pagt~ 1] 
Ford, who has said he thought Reagan wa~ too conservative in November, stayed our of the race when he became convinced it was too late to make a serious challenge against Reagan -and that he had generated insuffic­ient support for becoming a candidate. Reagan said he did not intend to seek Ford's endorsement before the GOP convention at Detroit in July. Ford said he would support the party's nom­inee ,','wnh all the enerr,y I have. 
In othea evidence that Ander­son has become the big target among GOP ~..andidates, Rea­gan reminded Illinois voters that he, too, is a native son. He campaigned in Dixon, where he om·e ran a radio station. 
Anerson's state campaisn dir­t·cror, Curt Walder, satd the umgressman's campaign has auracted $1 million tn the past kw wt-eks. 
Regardless of the outcome wmorrow, Walder said, it will ht·nefit Anderson's candidacy. 
face hair is a carryover from this." 

The shamrock, Godlen said, was used as a slur against the Catholic religion. "Irish Americans," he stated, "turned these forms of insults and wore them as badges cf 
pride."  .  
The  color  green?  Paul  
Galli co,  in  his  book pn St.  

Patrick, "The Steadfast Man," said: "Few are aware that this green, 'The Wearing of the Green' is a symbol not of the lush meadows and foliage ofthe Emerald Isle, but of an ancient Celtic fertility rite, the burning of green leaves, or green boughs, representing the spirit of vegetation, the ashes of which when carried forth and spread over the fields would make them fruitful." 
"St. Patrick's color is blue," Golden said . 
Corned beef and cabbage? ·'Corned beef and cabbage is an American invention,'' Golden commented. ''Butchers in Ireland cur the meat differ­ently. There is no corned beef. We do have boiled cabbage, but most Irishmen can't afford fancy cuts ofmeat. Traditional­ly we took the scrap thrown away--the pig's cheek, head or foot --and used that to flavor the broth. That is our 'soul food.''' , 
What do Clancy and Golden 
... SG 
[continued from page 1) 
body wish to hear. 
Scheiber also plans to rein­force loyalty and spirit at Saint Mary's and to encourage Saga to post the week's availability of co-ex tickets. 

Campaigning will begin to­day and continue through Thursday when elections will take place. Students rnay vote on March 20 from 10-5 in LeMans Lobby and from 5-6 at the dining hall. 
m ~he Umted States? "I go to a "F • • 
qutet ba~, run.by Italians, w_ith tnterested tn )Otn.m·g
some Insh fnends and dnnk beer that isn't green," Golden said 


M d M • 
Ciancy, an acco~plished, an atory eettng
fiddler_, heads off Chtcago to 
play wtth a group of fellow Irish T d M h 18 
!Uusicia!"ls. And if Mike Clancy UeS ay, arc 8 p.m. 
ts playmg, you can bet it's authentic Irish music. Observeroffice 

,. ' •;f<4-:.: ~~' ' :·' ; ~._,..; 
tof>"sirtolti1teak-tfinner in­cludes your choice of ajuicy 10 oz. top sirloin or teriyaki sirloin steak. Complete the feast with a trip to our salad bar. vegetable, bread, and your choice of long gratn and wild rice, baked potato, or French fries. Join us all day on Sun­days and during regular dinner hours. 
South Bend, 272~'78 
Monday through Thursdays, for top
_j,.t2BB5 U.S. 31 Nortli',. 
sirloins at bottom prices. Reservationsr ~~"'"'""'al Re,..~ran! ~yscems 1960 ' accepted. 
~-----------------------------------------­
' 
We've got a coupon you (an't refuse ! ! ! 
(AND WE'RE C.lOSE To THE C"mPUS, m-us 31 N AND DARDEN RD.)



lhe Sub Machine 
MENU 
DElUXE COMBO HAM

(ll.ltn ,.,.,,,..,onr ~.JI,Jmi-IJologna) PASTRAMI
SlJH MA( HINE SPECIAL 111.11>1 '·''·""' /i.>logn.t) 
PEPPERONI 

• ITAIIANII'•·PI"·rnnt >.tldrnr) SALAMI Ml ATBAll. BOlOGNA 
AI ASK/\N KING CRAB POliSH SAUSAGE llJNI\ ,CHEESE 
IWA~ T Bf LF VEGETARIAN SUB ~ \t•nrrl \:\llh yn11r c hou-t• ol-----­( )fjjl)fl~.•l f'llut r·• rflm.llrw•I'IC kit-..... Crl't'n /'(•ppt'('. HI.J< k 011\f'-. \,111 • l'f•ppt·r • 01l • Vu•f'g,lr • M.JyOfJ.JI'\(' • .\llw,ldrd t1n·J~.:fiO • . lor C),uu t' 


the Sub Machine 
2426 LINCOLNWAY WEST, MISH_ 259-8110 .52313 l'S31 NOKTH, SO. BEND 277-6355 
ROCCOS ~ 
men's and women's I 

hairstyling at comfortable prices 531 N. Michigan 233-4957 


Jim Henry GreQa Richards Brian McHale Jim Murray Mark Peterson 


TUESDAY MARCH 18 

' 





Editorials 
St. Patrick's Day-page 5 

Justice Notes 

flow shouldwe teach? 
that there are certain areas inOne of the most difficult the discipline that are not asquestions concer~ng justice is well developed as others?
ljo:\Y . ttr interpret %t: and insure Inasmuch as a topic can bethat it is applied to every day viewed variery

situations. Justice, or the lack from a of 
perspectiv.es, do we encourage
ofit, is an everyday part oflife. Cleady, t10 one gets very far if our students to consider rhe 
alternatives? All these
he ·or she stops before each . . 
quesuons essence,
action and debates its ethical are, m a 
reminder to us that we can, noimplications. Yet those rol.).tine 
· experiences are precisely the matter what the subject matter, 
ask ourselves if we are
oneswhich challenge and shape presenting the material in ways 

our individaul concepts of 

which comm1.:nicate the know­jl.lstice... 
ledge our field has to offerOne of the issues which has while, at the same time,been of concern to several of us the the
is the issue of justice in the indicate to students 
limits of the field and theclassroom here at Notre Dame. 
necessity for them tlil question
J.~ see~stimely toishare these 

and puch their own thinking in
P. 0. Box Q 
thoughts·· with th~ University order to grow intellectually. 

cot ."llunity since the faculty The second area is that ofthewih soon be deciding (or 

to it. If, as -I have heard, the commonalities and dispari­structure of the course. Here
···•.discovering!) wh<J.t they will

ties of the views expressed. we see at least three aspects of
students drink to escape the teach in the fall, and, hence, 
huge pressures of college life, From young prvfessor to ac­structuring a course that can be
will have the Q'pportunity to

In defense perhaps they would gain a more complished artist, from reflect on what. they hope to seen in the larger context of 
real and permanent peace of moderate women's rights advo­justice. First is the decision­
·ac¢omplish in· ti'teir assignedmind by working to change that cate to radical feminist, from courses. Necessarily, then, making to be done on assign­
ofCLCdecision 
way of life, itself. If students those who saw themselves first these comments are primarily ments. How are the assign­
as professionals to those whose ments we make related to the
drink in order to socialize well, aimed at those ofus who teach. perhaps they would do better to feminist consciousness perme­The perspective ofi students on ·goals of the course? Do we Dear Editor: work at improving their social ated their work, participants the topic of justice in the select a certain rype of exam skills. And if they drink simply could examine the personal, classroom is obviously the other because it will be a learning 
I am so tired of reading political. and professional is­experience for the students?
because they can't overcome side of the coin; we are hopeful
articles and editorials in the sues concerning women in the Do we have assignments at
the influence of their peers, that some of the students will
Observer about the phobic arts. Regardless of the Col­intervals related to the subject
perhaps they should work to address that topic from their
Administration unreasonably lege's reasons for funding the iJ!atter divisions we have
develop strength of character perspective so that a genuine
denying Notre Dame's mature and a greater sense of conference, the sessions them­dialogue might emerge. chosen? Once we have and responsible students their selves provided a range of answered these questions, why 
autonomy. -It seems to us that there are
right to have kegs at parties; Students are opinions, "potentially danger­not tell our students how and
misdirecting two broad areas ofconcern for a
and I am surprised that no one ous" and otherwise. why we made these decisions
their energies; kegs won't do teacher in designing a course:
challenges these pieces. Allow ro
them a heck of a lot of good. Having been provided with the content (namely, the since it is a major concern 
me to be the first to do so. the platform_ from which to them?
subject matter itself) and the

1 believe that other issues Alma Capra discuss the range of questions The second aspect . is the
strucrure (namely; what format 

directly relating to student life concerning women as contribu­overall one of scheduling.
the teacher will use' what the 

are far more important than the tors to and ~ubjects in art, What obligation do we have to
assignments will be, etc.).

keg issue. When students write dance, film, and theatre, it is consider the demands made on
. Both can be addressed from the 

in to illuminate the troubles of distressing that several women our students by their other
"Where were point of view of their relation·
transfer students, to complain apparently succumbed to a courses? Should we work in
ship to justice. Let us look at

of sexism of the University, or conspiratorial view of the con­conjunction with other
the content area first. 

to express a natural objection to ference as an excuse for shun­members in our college Gr in
In late Novcmb~r. all faculty

the women? 
war and the draft, other ning participation. orhcr colleges to work out exam
received a letter from tlw

students are quick to jump in Prof. Lacom be con tends that, ·,ch,·dules during the ::;cnwster
Ju-.ticc Education Subcommit­

and contradict their views, and given the University's concern :<swell as the final exam? Wh~H
tee in whtch · a series qf

that is healthy. But if the CLC for its public image. "women's about scheduling exams right
quest ions were: presented

limits the size of the containers Dear l-<.'ditor: actual artendance or real parti­before or after breaks? · 
askins faculty to cbnsider ways 

from which students can obtain cipation (in the conference) is of The third aspect t::. the
in wlltlh the subject matter they

their precious beer, an In her letter to the editor no significance, indeed." In­''exceptions'' which students
teach might be viewed in terms

inordinate amount of column published March 6, Anne deed not! Women who viewed wish us to make. For example, 
of justice. For example, "What 

space is devoted to the matter Lacombe asked several excel­the conference as window dres­what is our responsibility tf a
good or evil can .a person do

and no one challenges its lent questions regarding last student comes and asks us to
sing, but refused to offer their 
with mastery of my subject that

overblown importance. If week's conference on women in own opinions, abdicated their change an exam date which has
he or she wo.uld not have donealcohol is such a prevailing the arts. Where were all the responsibility to express their been scheduled, with the above 

withourit? Am I preparirig.my

concern to students, no wonder women--artists, intellectuals, views in a public setting for thoughts in mind, since the
.· .. students ..to make· re~ponstble

the Administration "neither critics, students, reachers? The discussion and response. They · · · · how; will use beginning of the semester? If respects nor trusts" them, as paltry response to this signifi­students decide not to artep{j
could not,ossibly hope to alter 
cant forum was indeed disap­
Paul Reihle says. what Pro . Lacombe viewed as lca.~u·''YIIctc · cla.·ssesright:before~r a.ftert·n··.•·.'.e..··.·:.··..The Administration is, in fact, pointing; so are Prof. La­"the vacuity of the content and breaks; do. we have any obb,, trying to lessen this preoccupa­combe's explanations for the the vacuum of the container'' gation to ~sist them in making tion with drinking. Everyone poor turnout. without attending and actively up the .mat~~ial th~;; miss?. ..·.•.:.• .. 
If people suspected that the
points out that using kegs is participating in the conference. We ·llope. that~~sing .thf:;~e less expensive and more event was politically motivated Women have struggled to questions wm help focus· our convenient than using cans and to ·imbue Notre Dame with an develop their own definitions attention onrhe issues ofjustii;e
another

bottles; in other words, it air of liberality concerning 
for themselves; they cannot do i!l. our ow.ri .dassr00ms. .... f?r
c~#.be

facilitates the consumption of women's issues, why did they so by remaining silent. 
r""''"'"''rt n:g:a.-roJtug the sub-

beer. This is exactly why kegs not address that question at the Woman: Signifier or Signified. our course, ·and ~~~!:·ofJe~~~h~::~!~l~ib~:;=·
matter 

are disallowed --conference? If they disliked the brown bag lunch at 12:00 on
as a deterrent provided a vital kind of forum that is a more internal one: how 
to the alcohol abuse so common perspectives taken by confer­for women in the arts to explore dowe teach the subject matter? Thursday, March :w, in thti 
in this and every University. ence participants, why did they Library Lounge. Do come. We
more

self-definitions. Many .Are there ways of teaching it
The CLC's motives are quite not offer their own viewpoints could have benefited from the that a.re more appropriate to look forward to meeting with clear and perfectly legitimate. for discussion and debate? you.
opportunity. fostering the development of a
The great puzzle to me, is The three-day gathering of­
critical awaren:ess in our

why students consider drinking fered a broad range of artistic Linda-Margan:! Hunt 
students? Do weprovide them 

--and drinking to excess --so and feminist perspectives; the Kathleen}. Turner Kathleen Maas If'eigert
with "pat answers" or clo we 

necessary that they w.ork hard rich benefit to those attending Asst. Prof ofCommunication justice at Notre Dame Subcom­
demand that they 'think through 

ro remove the slightest obstacle was the opportunity to explore and Theatre mittee
an issue? Do we ackowledge 

administration of either institution. 



Editorial ~():lrd and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and 

-The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible Editorials Edltor-tn·chie( ..... . Roseman· Mills Sports Editor...... . . .Mark Perrv represent the opimon of a majority of Managmg Editor... .Dtane Wilson Features Edztor .... .Kathleen Connell.v BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46.5.56 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonal Editor............ .. Ann Gales Photo Editor .............. Doug Chnsuan I opinions and letters are the views of Sen tor Copy Editor ........ M. Onufrak I 
The Observer is an independent their authors Column space is avail­Executive News Editor. .\1ike Lewis Business Manager ....... .Steve Odland newspa~r published by the students able to all members of the commumty, News Editor.................. .Mark Rust Productwn Manager ..... John McGrath ofthe University of Notre Dame du lac .an~ . the free expression of varying News Edztor ... ,...... . .. Mike Shields Advertising Manager ... Mike Holsinger and Saint Mary's College. It does not opmtons on campus, through letters, is SMC News Editc ..... Margie Brassil Controller................. .Kevin Manion necessarily rdlect the policies of the encouraged. Circulation Manager ......Greg Hedges 
1 


' 
The Observer 
I I I I I f I ­

Molarity 

Notre Dame finished a distant and unexpected eighth place at the National Collegiate Athletic Association fencing championships Saturday at Penn State. 
Wayne State, with gold medal performances by foils­man Ernie Simon and epeeist Gil Pezza, won its second straight national title. The Tartars finished with 111


by Garry Trudeau points. Penn edged Massachu­setts Institute of Technology for second place on a tiebreaker after both teams finished with 
HI, I'M 


106 points. 
Cleveland State finished fourth with 104, followed by Penn State and Clemson, both with 102. Princeton had 100, and was followed by Notre Dame with 98, Navy with 95, and Illinois with 87. 
Notre Dame's Andy Bonk captured the silver medal in foil, edging Alexander BJorn of George Mason for second place on indicators. Bonk won last , year's gold medal at the finals which were held at Princeton. 
Irish captain Chris Lyons finished sixth in sabre, making
ACROS~. 27 Crouches 45 Searle! and 18 Spelling 
All-American status. Paul
1 Younger son Iron fear typhoid and bumble 
Friedberg of Penn won the gold 

The Daily Crossword f Scandal 30 Diff cult 46 Supply food 2~1 --relief 
sabre medal.
or '::oed circum­47 "Der -· 24 Mash 11 Owls query stances 48 Jerk 25 Basketball 

Irish freshman Rich Daly 1t Sha•p of life 00 Greet player 
failed to advance to the cham­
15 HaPdel 33 Sackclott: por;ico 26 City in 
pionship round in epee, win­
lave•rite and-51 Johnny-Russia 
ning only three of nine bouts in
16 Pronoun 34 Wise 54 -· pro nobis 27 "-Mutiny" 
the opening round.
17 Ve~.icle 35 UndiVided f,5 Lubricant 28 Ancient 
of sorts 36 Rimed 59 Garland Italian 19 Grig 37 Sloping 60 Jong or 29 Invalid's 20 Tennis unit surface Morini transport 21 Gave money 38 Sahara 61 Hess and 30 Initiated 

Tennis ..­
at irterest sight Christie cruelly 22 White 39 No: Scot. 62 Poetic word 31 Nature or 

Notre Dame 7, Ball State 2 pop1-1r 40 State wit~. 63 Traffic sanctum 24 lambs conv:ctior scars 32 Nobles 
Singles25 Jewelry 41 ...,Ull,_! 64 Avocet kin 34 Separate material 42 Joined up 37 Reduce 
No. 1-Mark McMahon (ND) del. Jim DOWN 38 Pigeon 
Greiner 7-5, 6-2. 1 Croaks 41 Bombs, of No.2-Carlton Harris (ND) det. John
Friday's Results 

Wood 6-1, 6-2.
2 Twinge a sort No. 3-Herb Hopwood (ND) del. Jeff3 Song for 43 "-the way"
II 
H A R P. R'E'G'A L .'o'P T S 

Smart 6-0, 6-1.
two •14 CachedR F 
L
110 
No. 4.-Mark Hoyer (ND) del. Dave
4 Season in 45 Lash
E P A R T M E N T S T 0 R E
ILD 

Ballingall 6-2, 2-6, 6-4.
Aries 47 Reference
;; 0 R T E R.C T A T E 0 
No. 5-Rusty Schubert (BS) del. Tom
1-E T N A S H A V E-5 Bank clerks book 

Hartzell 3-6, 6-3, 6-1.
B E S E E C H 0 E T E S T S 
6 Opinion 48 Food fish No. 6-Tom Robison (ND) del. Jeff 7 Stag 49 Algo!lquian
0 v E R IT 0 R (J sj.T 0 E 

Surratt 6-3, 6-0.
LENS .VAN. SENT 
8 Slip 50 Cult 
TNT.ARENAS TR!G 
9 Seli 51 Branches 
Doubles
STALL~~ A B A.S C 0 
10 Approaching 52 Donkey: Ger.
1-1 0 0 0 EN.~ R M-
No. 1-Harris/Ho~wood (ND) del.
11 Pilot's 53 Defeat
A L I V. E A N D D I L AJ-J­

Wood/Smart 6-1, 7-6 (5-2).
place 56 Eur. govt.,
GOVERNOI1GEIERAL 
No. 2-McMahan/Hoyer (ND) del.

12 Rotter 96.~-1806 Ballingaii/Schubert 7-6 (5-2), 6-4.
APER.TRUER SCRS 
13 Heraldic 57 On'l: Ger.
~L E S S. S AM 0 S S H'Q E. 
No. 3-Greiner/Surratt (BS) del. Jimterm 58 Gnc.w
311~18~
All Rights Reserveo Falvey/Tim Noonan 6-3, 6·4. 


Basketball 
NCAA Basketblll Tournament Quarterfinals 

East Regional Iowa 81, Georgetown 80 Mideast Regional Purdue 68, Duke 60 Midwest Regional Louisv11ie 8b, Louisiana State 66 .. West Regional UCLA 85, Clemson 74 
Sell'lflnals Saturday, March 22 Indianapolis, IN

,.-=--==-~============i! 
UCLA (21-9) vs Purdue (22-9) Iowa (23-8) vs. Louisville (31-3)

I' Applications For-
Finals Mond:-y, March 24

11 

Assistant Treasurer-

Indianapolis, IN Consolation Losers of Semifinal Games

:~ Student Government 
Championship Winners of serniflnal gama
1-must be presently a sophmore and 
National Invitation Tournament 

Semifinals Monday's Games · At New York -pickupapp1icationsin Treasurer's I· Minnesota (20 10) vs. 

going into Accounting 

Illinois (21-12) VirGinia (22-101 vs. Nev.-Las Vegas 123-7) 
Office 2nd Floor Lafortune I 
FINALS Wednesday's games


-applications due j. 

At New York Consolation Game

Thursday, March 27 

Char1pionship Game 
. --·­









L_ 
W eltzin scored his first of two Junior defenseman Jeff 
The Observer -Sports St. Patrick's Day-page 7 
for the night (three for the Brownschidle assisted on Mere· series) at 14:37 on a power/lay. dith's record breaking goal to 
Grace, Howard to rematch 
Howard Walker sparke the collect a record of his own. He
.. . North. 
Sioux, however, during the finished the year with 36 stanza with two goals as the assists, the most in a season by 
in intramural basketball
Nodaks build the total goals an Irish blue liner. He set the (continued from page BJ advantage to 13-5 and led 3-1 school record for points in a of reach with a third period hat after the first 20 minutes. season by a defenseman last Last night in Division I shared game honors with 17 trick. Notre Dame was called Saturday's second period was week. Both records were interhall basketball action, points. Tim Koegel pitched in for six penalties in the final 20 the strongest for the Irish, as previously owned by Jeffs Grace (11-1) used a late second 16 for Flanner, while Tim minutes, and the Sioux capital-they evened the game score, brother, Jack who currently half surge to defeat arch rival O'Connor hit for 10, all in the ized with three power play 4-4, with three straight goals. plays for the NHL's St. Louis Flanner (9·2) 48-44. The semi-second half. goals. Meredith scored his After Dusty Carroll put the Blues. final victory advanced Grace to In the Flanner-Howard second goal of the game at Sioux on top, 4-1, at 4:42, For the Sioux, Saturday's win the championship game at 7 pro game, the reigning title-holders 
18:43 to set the stage for his Meredith, Jeff Perry and Welt-was their 18th in a row at home Wednesday night in the pit at moved out to an early iead record breaking tally Saturday. zin evened things for the game, and their 12th in a row overall. the ACC against Howard (10-0), behind the play of Kevin Dix 
"The margin going into Sat· even though the Irish still "We played with a lot of the defending champions. and Jim Dolezal. The 29-18 urday's game was so big I was trailed by six goals in the spirtt," said Gino Gasparini, The win for Grace avenged halfume lead was never threat-concerned about how we would series. It was Meredith's 104th seond-year North Dakota coach. an earlier defeat at the hands of ened as Howard continued their react," Smith said. "We either career goal, making him the "Now we just continue to try Flanner in the second round of torrid shooting in the second could have played our regular leading goal scorer in Irish and do our best. I'm not going the double elimination rourna-half with a picture perfect ~arne, or it could have turned history. He broke the standard to predict how we'll do ·· all I ment. Flanner was coming off a motion offense. Dolezal finish­mto a real war. But we hustled, of 103 set by Eddie Bumbacco know is we will give it our best 60-45 loss to Howard last ed the game with 24points. trying to do as well as possible, from 1970-74. shot." Wednesday, thus putting both and tried to break their unbeat· "Greg is just and excellent North Dakota's best certainly tower squads in a must-win The Grace-Howard game will en streak at home. We main-player, leader and srudent," was too much for Notre Dame. situation. Grace will have to be a rematch of their December tained our composure and went Smith said. "It was just and It may just carry the Sioux to defeat unbeaten Howard twice contest, won by Howard 59-54. out with a lot of class." fitting that he get the record their first national champion-to win the title. This was the only regular 
~ SaturQay' s _first _P.::.e:..:ri:.::;o..::d:!...,__:a:..:n.:..:d::..:..I.:..:w..::as:;:....;v..:;e.;;.ry'-.:.:h:::a&::p£p!...y..:t::;.o..::s:.::;e..;;;e.;:i.:..:t_..__ s::h:&ip:.....::.s::in::c:::e_1::..:9:..:6:.::3:..:.________;M:;.:::ik::e:::....::C:.:o:.:u=r::..e!...y..:a:..:n:..:d:.....C..:.J..:.ur:.:t:.....B:..::...al_·le....:y:...__s_e_a_so_n_lo_s_s_fo_r_G_ra_c_e_.-----. 
Ali classified ads mus1 be _received by 5:00p.m.. two days prior' to the 1ssue m whtch the ad ts run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday througr Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, e'ther in person or through the mail.
Classifieds 
What do the Irish Wake and the Polish

Need ride for 2to Indianapolis Mar. 22 Teri M., Rick F., Margie B, Mike G. Call Rick (7695). , Need ride to New Orleans for break. 
----------------
& 24. Kelly 3810. Wedding have in common? FREE­Thanks for making my early MondayWHEELIN'! Their debut album AMs bearable for the past two months. DESPERATE!! Need ride to Northern '$5.50) now available at the Student As far as I'm concerned, we deserved 
Notices 
Anyone needing a ride to Omaha over FHEE FREE FRE'E Easter. Call Mike 8232. NJ right off 1-80. Must leave Monday tJnion Record Store. paper of the week every week. Style cut with purchase of Day into 
or Tuesday (25th). Share usual. Call Thanks. 
---------------~ Mike at 7289. Order your History t-shin now!! See • John
Night, Redken·s new moisture control­Need ride to DC area for break. Call 
Mrs. Box at the History Dept. Office.

ling acid wave. Try it. You're worth Pete 2256. 
it. Just $43.00. Jan's Beauty How sw3et! 
~---------------"Rock with RPM at Vegetable Bud­
For Sale Boutique. 143 Dixleway, Roseland Need ride to Conn for break. Will dies. Tuesday, March 18." Alumni Hall,share usual. Call Jim 1175. 
You are number one In lnterhall
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
Sony PS-1100 direct-drive semi-auto. Elect Mr. Bill to UMOC or elsa!! 
hockey. Go Green!!
All LOANS PREVIOUSLY DUE ON 
Need ride to and from Miami for 
turntable. Greg 1826. Sluggo 
P.S. nice face George.
APRIL 7 WILL BE DUE ON APRIL B. 
spring break. Will share $$$. Please call 233-2201 after 11 pm. Yamaha mudel FG-160 acoustic guitar SENIORS! Bring your photographs For a Better St. Mary's Vote: ~ 
Will do typing. Call 287-5162. Ne1r. 
for sale. Good condition. Call Jegg and artwork to boxing room [flald­Sweeney McCarthy Stoll
accurate. Need ride to central Pa. for break. 
3467. house] now. For Senior Arts Festival. 
Thurs. March 20.
Anyone passing thru via Pa. Turnpike Deadline 3/17. Questions: Call Bath"Rock with RPM at Vegetable Bud­please help. Expenses and driving Got a blank space on your wall? Fill it Schweitzer 6785 or Bruce Richardson 
Mom & Dad,dies, Tuesday, March 18." 
shared. Jim 1688. 
with color baskerball action photos. 1354. 
Happy St. Patrick's Day.
All players, all sizes. Cheap. Not
Typing plus. Term papers, theses. Help West meet East. Give a West Johnny
available for Ronco or K-Tel. Call Hey Bitch­dissertations. Light editing, ghost coaster a ride to NYC or Conn. for 
8932. Love your bra! Ann Smith,
writing. Literary search, biblioyra­break. Can leave Wed: p.m. Call Jay 
R.B. 

Happy Birthday!!
phies, genealogies. Job resume 8894. 
Kodac film for sale, 35 mm, 126, 110,service. Sliding rate scale based on 
half price!! Call7704, or 6614 and ask Private joke, I suppose? --------------~~" 
lead time. Spectal discounts on full Need ride to NJ (Monmouth area) over BB,
for Doll'g.
contracts for theses and dissertations. break. Will share driving and $$. Call It's not nice to tease Mother Mind­
SMC Off Campus

Aardvark automatic Solutions, P.O. Lacy at 4527 (SMC) games.
Remington SR 101 single element' Vote:Box 1204, 46624, phone (219) 289-6753 
typewriter wide carriage: new $700 Sweeney, McCarthy
Need ride to DC area for break. John 233-6208. Stoll Andi and friends,
Morrissey Loan Fund 
8859. Ya'll made my stay def-ex. Thanx!
Thurs. March 20Last day for undergrads to apply is 

2 NCAA final-4 BB tix for sale. Tim Arnie
March 26. Riders needed to Ft. Lauderdale. 
3810. All Observerites, even Sal the Italian,
Leaving Buffalo 3/29, returning to N D Lt. Schilling (Sir),
Happy St. Patty's Day!!! Indiana isn't

Rock with RPM at Vegetable Buddies, 
417. Call Mike 8783 or Ron 8482. Happy Anniversary! Can't wait tc
New York, but then we can't haveTuesday March 18. 

paint the town green·-chew you knov. Need ride to Utica, NY (between what'! mean, baby-cakes?
everything.

Personals 
Syracuse and Albany) for break. Call Thorn Cullum, Happy Birthday one _______________u.
Mucho, mucho love! XOXC Greg 1756. Volunteers needed: 
day late! I think this calls for a

Lost&Found 
1. 2-3 students, half-day, week March celebration .at Pizza Hut. How abou: MHV:
Keyboard/rhythm guitar player need­25-28, help disabled parson move.
Lost: One pair of dark men's it? 1 You are driving me crazy!
ed by campus rock group 3463. 2. Tutor high school student In Algebrasunglasses. I believe I lost them Sun. 
and Trig. 
. Eileen,

March 9 in Post Office. Please call Wally,
Need rider to NYC (Manhattan) leav­3. Tutor 10-yr. old in Math. 
To a pretty Iris~ lass! Today is our

John 232-7725. You better not find out or you-know­
ing Fri. March 28. Call Cindy or Sue Contact Volunteer Services 7308. 
special day ...1711 

what will be lacking tonight.
(4540-SMC). 
All my love,

LOST: SMC class ring. SM M & Devon
Dear Justin,BSN'81 on inside. Lost behind ACC. 
Need ride to Tampa, FL for spring I hope you and Mary's room have a Joe ---------------­
Margaret: ,
Call Sharon 4-1-4295. --~------------­
break. Will share driving and expen­great St. Pat's Day. Does Mary know 
Experience is the key. Vote: Thanx a million for a great time 
ses. Please call Christian 272-7987. about this? 
Sweeney, McCarthy, Stoll Thur~ Saturday nile.
LOST: Pair of brown suede gloves in 
Guess who? 

March 20. Panama Red
Room 110of Hurley Bldg on March 12. 
DESPERATELY need ride to Philadel­P.S. Svrry, but this· doesn 'I necessarilyCall Brian 272-7684. 
phia--Will share driving and expenses. SMC Seniors, 
Mimi. mean you'll Qet paper of the week. Call Jim 1729, Greg 1757. Remember you can vote: Sweeney, Aqui esta tu personal. Espero que t€ ---------------­
McCarthy, and Stoll Thurs. March 20. Pat Hanahan,
guste.

For Rent Need ride to Minnesota for spring We love ya, you toxy artist 1 
Johr

break. Call Kathleen 5465 (SMC). Your best bet yet! Smooches, You can't forget the name of Jim Mikes
Large 7 bedroom furnished house Puz,
Need ride to Minnesota for break. Can Szumski--otherwise known as Chump­
available for rent starting fall classes. The luck of the Irish was with me when
leave early. 8268. ski. So vote him for UMOC. Let's all Dunn and Schafer; We'll account for
Excellent area close to campus. Some I met you.
support the Pollock. you!
rooms available now. 289-6813 or Lovu,
Need ride to Pittsburgh. Can leave
289-5023. Tom
Thur. March 27. 3:00pm Matt 1612. Dunn and Schafer; Hey Mom and Dad, 
We'll Account for You! Don't forget to call Thursday night.
Celebrate today in Irish Country. 

No ride yet.
Need ride to Minnesota either 26th or Open at 12:00 pm till?? Come in for
Wanted Will share expenses. Many Pelican Lovers ---------------­
27th of March. News Flash: 
beer and pizza. Barb. Cathy, Mar-Mar, Mary. Mike.
Peg 5105. develop big mouths--some die myster­
Need female (preferably) to snare --iously before reaching the age of Vince. and Jenny, 
comfortable furnished 2-bedroom a­Dave "Babble on" Hard-Acre, Thanks for the greatest birthday of my
Riders wanted to Champaign (U of I) 22--details at 10. 
partment on N D Ave. Including Get all that important stuff done this life. Take care always. cause I love ya
March 20. Call41-5103. 
weekend?? loads!

utilities, $62.50 summer; $125 school Greetings Vegetable Bob's Mom! 
year. Eve.nings 233-9122. Cheryl
Scintillating conversationalist needs Hey Charlie, "Baby Let's Kruse," you
ride to Canton, 0Hor general vicinity Kathy Festin will have one thing on animal (on ice). Keep up the abuse!
Need ride to South Florida. Will share Dunn and Schafer; We'll account for
tor break. Can leave after Thurs. her mind this Thursday (her 21st 
Charlie's A~gels,

the usual. Call Bobby 1049. you!
morning. Share usual. Joe 3598. birthday). Sex? Nope. Drugs? Nope. 
(Anne, Mary, Margaret, and Cathy)Drinks? (well, OK two things ... ) 

Need ride to Lauderdale the 26th Hey Sis,
Desperately need ride to Ft. Lauder­MacDonaldland Shakes? YES!!
share expenses. JackiEl'1362. ' Randy McNally, Have you seen Dad lately? We will
dale area lor break. Will share driving You wanna hear my "life-long" have to go to ,lunch again some time. 
\

and costs generously. Call Steve (;olor basketball pictures still avail­
dream? Anne

Ride needed to Buffalo area for break. Love,
(1428). able. Slam dunks make great decora­Call Chris 3136. 
tions. Call 8932. 
M.S. of Greenville: -------------~~~e
Need ride to East Lansing or Flint Ml TP,
All they took was grain? I heard theyNeed ride to Newark NJ for spring 

for 2 on March 21. Call John 1466 or Freewheelin'-their debut album now Happy St. Patty's Day.
took a few one-hits and a couple

break. Will share driving and expen­Tim 1431. available at S. U. record store Mom 
trippers too!

ses. Call Cori 287-0289. 
The Seeker Sarah S.,

Two charming, handsome males need The Abortion Debate continues tonite Don't be afraid to ask him out!
Need riders for spring break to Dallas ride to Nashville, TN over break. Call on WSND's "Talk It Up." Join host Congrats Fredman--has anyone noli­
area. Call 272-7930. An interested party
Kelly 1472. 
Pat Toomey with guests Chris Stewart 
~--------------and Mary Ann Hughes (nd-SMC Right ~~~~~~~------------------------­
Dunn and Schafer;
~eed ride to Denver for Spring Break. 
Need ride to NYC for break. Call Janet to Life) from 11-12 pm. Only on 640, Happy St. Patrick's Day to all of the 
We'll account for you!
~illl share the usual. Call Bob at 1682. 
[SMC]·4700. members of the Ireland program
t--WSND. ---------------­
1978-1979!! Love, Cindy Hope you feel better, Patti. 
~ ·-~ • -If 
•. ""-"FF ,.-----~-~
SROrts ~-·--., ~. ft ~ St.Patrick'sDay-page8 
North Dakota proves NDwomen too tnuch for Irish icers close season 
by Bnan Beglane Doug Smail and Phil Skykes Sports Writer added shorthanded goals at 
by Craig Chval 
8:07 and 8:24 and when Rick 
S/Jorts Wn'ter 
Zaparniuk tallied on a power LACROSSE, Wis.--For the GRAr I· FORKS, N.D. --The ply at 9:25, North Dakota ha~ Notre Dame women's basket­

Notre '.'ame hr-ckey team faced buried Notre Dame for the ball team, whose clock seem­more thau ItS share of adversity series with a four-goal lead ingly had struck midnight after rhis season in a year filled with after the first period. 
a fourth-place finish in last injuries and political battles Smith replaced Laurion in the weekend's Midwest Regional 

owr its future. But Goliath, nets with Bob McNomara to tournament only to receive a orlwrwise kn11wn as North Da­start the second period as a surprise at-large bid to the kota. rurnl·d rhe tables on the possible means of rhanging the nauonal tournament, there'II be htbliral srory and wiped out tide of the game. It seemed to no what if's this summer. 
I\t·,id r,is ·.veekend. work for a while, as freshman The most successful season 
i'he Fighting Sioux, ranked Kirt Bjork beat Sioux netminder in Nurre Dame's three-year
l\,' I in the cour1try, proved to Bob lwabuchi just 10 seconds history came to a shuddering .w dw impa.,sab:t> roadblock in into the stanza for his first of halt Saturday night when the \J, •r r.-~ Larnt 's miracle drive two goals in the series. 
Irish ran into a marvelouslyt<>wards rhe national tourna­Sykes answered back with his talented Wisconsin-LaCrosse 

llH'tll ano dosed the door on second of the game at 6:49 to squad and saw their ~rc:3:ms of unt· uf th·~ m 1st controversial put the Sioux back on top by a trip to the AlAW Dtvtstot III -;easons in Irish history. North four, 5-l. Ted Weltzin and Final Four dashed, 80-57. 
D.tkot<! earned its secvnd Sioux forward Erwin Martens 
In runmng thetr record to 25-4, ~rraight bid co the NCAA Final then exchanged scroes at 10:00 
the fifth-ranked Roonies left no 

h•ur h> defeating the Irish, and 17:34, and when Greg doubt as to who was the better 
10-4 Friday and 7-4 Saturday, to Meredith scored his first of team. Although the Irish were wm the total goals, second three goals in his record-setting able to hang close for about the round Western Collegiate weekend, the Irish pulled to first ten minutes of the contest,Hockey Association playoff ser­within three, 6-3. It was the the fact that the Roonies scored 
tes, 17-8. closest Notre Dame got in total after offensive rebounds on 
Notre Dame closed out the goals the entire series. 
each of their first five trips 

season with an 18-20-1 overall North Dakota'sRick Myers put down the floor was an ominous record after finishing fifth in the game --and the series --out foreshadowing.the WCHA. It was the second 
[continued on page 7] And then it happened. Cold rime m their nine-year league shooting, a lack of rebounding
history that the Irish were and a sticky, full-court zone 
turned back in the second round press ~ombined to turn a 24-19 of the playoffs. Irish Senior game into a 35-19 lau~her.
captain Greg Meredith scored In swimming After coming out cold m the three goals in the seriec: to 
early going, the Roonies 

become Notre Dame'S' all-time warmed up from the field and top scorer. 
went into the locker room leading 47-23. 

Four achieve all-Atnerica status 
The WCHA champions the by Michael Ortman nized in three different free­finals by just six-tenths of a To their credit, the Irishlast rwo years, Sioux, received Sports Writer style events, the 200, 500 and point and finished in 13th place. regrouped and actually out­the West's automatic bid to the 

the 1,650, finishing lOth, third 

''I was a little calmer than scored the hosts 34-33 in theNCAA tournament and take a MEADVILLE, Penn. --Notre and first respectively. Her top 
last year,'' admirted the Cin­second 20 minutes, but the29-8-1 record to Providence, R. 
Dame swimmers Jeanine Blatt, finish in the 1,650-yard free­cinnati native, "but I was still outcome was hardly in doubt.
I., March 27. 
Lee Ann Brislawn and Kathy srvle in 17:47.50 set a Division really nervous. I perform a ''They were by far the most"North Dakota played excel­Latino and diver Betsy Shadley IIi national record. 
little better under pressure, and balanced ream I've seen,''lent hockej' in every phase of were honored as AlA W Divi­"I was a lot more satisfied I think that was a little _plus." praised Irish coach Sharon Pe­the game," said Irish coach sion III All-Americans following with my performance this Brislawn and Latino scored in tro. ''Not only did they have aLefty Smith. "I don't know if their performances in the three­year,'' said the sophomore the backstroke and the butterfly tremendous amount of talent,anyone has much of a shot at day-lops Nation,al Swimming native of Dayton, Ohio. "I was respectively. In the 200 back, but they were very poised andstopping them in rhe national and Divmg Championships held a lot more relaxed and easy Brislawr. finished sixth in a well-coached. It's certainly no
tournament. They skated ama­here this weekend. about it than I was in last year's field of 32 in 2:20.67. In the 100 disgrace losing to them, despite
zingly well and their specialty Since Notre Dame has no nationals, and 1 think that's 
back, the Dayton, Ohio, fresh­the score. " 
units were very effective.'' 
separate varsity team for wo­what did it." man finished eighth out of 39, Junior center Darcia DaviesThe Sioux skated so quickly, in men, the four had to compete covering the distance in led the Roonies with 15 pointsfact, that Notre Dame found with the men during the regular The top 12 finishers in each 1:03.36. and 15 rebounds but three otheritself trailing by a goal while the season. recorded honored as
Times event were All Latino, a sophomore from LaCrosse players were close
latecomers at the Winter Sports against male competition quali­Americans. Poughkeepsie, N.Y., finished behind ·-Lorraine Tetzlaff (14Cent~r were still making their 
fied them for the 102-ream Shadley put on an impressive 11th in the 100 and eighth in the points and 12 assists), Tamie 
way to their seats. Mark Taylor national championships. diving display, earning her 200-yard fly with times of Tills (14 points), and Judy
beat Irish goalie Dave Laurion Both Blatt and Shadley earn­laurels from the 1-meter board. 1:01.26 and 2: 14.72. Hansmann (13 points).
just 4 3 seconds after the open­ed All-America honors last year Her 342.81 points placed her The fifth Irish swimmer to For Notre Dame, Jane Polit­ing faceoff on a screened 40-in a similar small college third in a field of 55 divers. In make the trip was Terry Fitz­iski led the offense with 13
foot wrist shot that caught the championship in Reno, Nev. the 3-meter competition, Shad­simmons who competed during points, leaving here career 
upper left corner of the net. Blarr was nationally recog-ley failed to qualify for the the regular season with Notre scoring record at 672 over three Dame's women's swimming years. Junior guard Sheila group which is adjunct to the Liebscher and sophomore for­varsity team. The senior free­ward Tricia McManus popped
Green Machine demolishes BigRed 
·stylist from Mount Prospect, for 10 points apiece. 
Ill., finished 25th out of 48 in The play of Liebscher was on by j ol.in Smith day, and immediately made his effectively taking the energy the 50-yard free in :25.85. of few bright spots in an S'J()rt:; Wn"ter presence felt. Three minutes our of Big Red's machine. ''I was incredibly pleasecl otherwise long evening for 
·As the half pro~ressed, both with the girls' performance," Notre Dame. The 5-8 reserve
The expected grudge match and 40 seconds into the first between traditional South Quad half, Marrone took a pass from squads showed stgns of tiring said Irish swimming coach hit four of seven field goal 
Dennis Stark. ''I really think

rivals, Alumni and Dillon Halls, Mike O'Connor and drilled the as the puck continually changed attempts, grabbed five re­never materialized Sunday as puck past Big Red goaltender, hands. they represented women's bounds and chalked up three 
swimming Notre in But more
the Green Machine of Alumni Dan Marchiori. Alumni put some proverbial at Dame assists. even note­
easily defeated Big Red, 5-0, in Two minutes after Marrone's "icing on the .::ake" as co-cap­grand fashion '' worthy was her overall hustle, the lncerhall Hockey Champion­goal, Brian Delaney fourad the tain Conlon took a feed from A few on the girls expressed espectally in light of the lop­ship game. From the opening net, with assists gomg to Rich John Green at the 13: 15 mark, hope for the formation of a sided score. 
face-off, Alumni was in charge; Conlon and Randy McNally. and beat Marchiori for the women's varsity team at Notre · On the season, the 1979-80 Delaney's shot came from the score. Dame in the not too distant Irish boast an impressive list of
building a 3-0 lead by the 10 
same spot as the previous goal The game's final goal came future. "I hope our perfor­accomplishments, both individ­minute mark of the first period. 
Alumni and DiiJ.Jn met once as Dillon once agam was caught two minutes later when Mar­mance had some impact on the ually and as a team. Politiski earlier this year, last Monday,­in a defensive lapse. rone connected again; this rime future of women's ~w:cnming," will graduate with the career 
in the regular season fi:-~ale. In Within five mmutes, Alumni the assist came off the stick of said Blatt who has struggled for scoring and rebounding stan­that meeting, the game ended was on the board again as junior Jim Lanz. rwo years just tu finish in the dards, senior co-captain Molly as a tie, 1-1, the only blemish freshman Charlie Kruse tallied The 5-0 victory brought the top three against male compet­Cashman now owns school 
on the champion "Dogs" (8-0-off a pass from Matt Brach. Interhall Hockey crown to co­ition. ''A separate team would marks for assists and steals, 
1) undefeated record. Dillon Dillon made their only seri­captains Nick Marrone's and be a big plus for us." McManus established a new 
finishes at 6-1-1. ous threat at the start of the Conlon's South Quad champ­Latino added, "I think that if free throw shooting accuracy ions. Alumni had defeated we had had a women's team record, and Matvey holds an
In their first meeting with second half as thev directed a 
Dillon, Alumni was without the bundle of shots ·on Alumni defending champions, Stanford here this year, we would have array of season bests--scoring services of sophomore Mike goaltender, Phil Fowler. Fow. Hall, on Thursday to earn their had a lot more than just five and rebound average, field goal Marrone. He w_as back yester-ler made some brilliant saves, birth in the finals. qualifiers for the nationals." percentage and blocked shots. 
--2D_..~~n--. 







