, , , Today,page 6 

VOL. XV, NO. 3 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 27, 1980 
CLC plans to take new role for SBP 
by Tim Vercelotti StaffReporter 
The Campus Life Council 

(CLC) will take on a new role in Student Body President Paul Riehle's plans for a consolidated studentgovernment, he announ­ced yesterday. 
The deliberative body, which is comprised of students, hall rectors, faculty members, and administration officials, would serve as an advisory group to the proposed student senate. 
Riehle is opposed to the idea of doing away with the CLC. "I still like the idea ofthe CLC, because it affords the students and ad­ministration a chance for dis­cussion," Riehle said. 
Other members of last year's CLC disagree with Riehle's pro­posal. Both Fr. Richard Conyers, Keenan Hall Rector, and Mickey Turzai, senior class president, 
call  for  the  abolition  of  the  
council.  
According  to  Conyers,  the  

student voice is ineffective. He pointed out that students are here for only nine months, while decisions are made all year. He added that the issues that con­cern the student body vary with some hope for the future of the student voice at Notre Dame WASHINGTON (AP)-yesterday. with the formation of the pro-. President Carter has accepted an "By accepting this invitation posed student senate. invitation from the National and with the hope that Governor 
"Anything that will help to Press Club for a head-to-head Reagan will accept it, we will organize the student voice is debate with Republican Ronald then have that assurance of a Reagan as soon as possible, the one-on-one debate," White
[cont. on page 6[ 

president's chief spokesman said House press secretary Jody 
Polish workers continue strike ­
GDANSK, Poland (A!-') -10 nation's crippling labor prob­The state-controlled media an unprecented move, Poland's lems yesterday as the strikes 
broadcast an appeal from Car­communist leaders turned to spread to the southern indus­dinal Stefan Wyszynski for the Polish Roman Catholic trial cities of Lodz and 
"prudence" and "responsibil­rimate for help in ending the Wroclaw. 
ity" in the crisis. 
Youth robs ND couple 
by john Higgins 

Two Notre Dame students were robbed early Tuesday morning in the Stepan Center parking lot. The students, one male and one female, said they were leaving the parking lot when they were approached by a black male in his twenties who pulled a chrome-plated revolver and demanded money from the couple. 
They said that when the male displayed 1.5 cents and an empty wallet, the robber placed the revolver againt his head and pulled the trigger. The gun was apparently empty. 
A report filed by die couple states that the robber then grab bed the man's car keys, pulled the trigger again, and fled. The female victim ran towards Grace Hall while the male followed the robber to see if the robber would take his car. The robber then fled the area, they said. 
The couple called Notre Dame Security froin Grace Hall. 
"It was just like in 'The Deer Hunter,"' the female victim said, referring to the movie in which one scene features soliders in Vietnam playing Russian roulette. "All I could think that the last thing I would see is him getting shot because I knew that I would be next." · 
Notre Dame Security did detain a suspect in the incident. "A man was detained," Assistant Director ofSecurity Rex Rakow said, "but he was released after it was verified that he was picking up a Notre Dame employee." 
Rakow believes that the incident may have been related to a robbery, at 11 p.m. Monday night in which a Mishawaka women was robbed of $10 at gunpoint in the parking lot of the Kroger Supermarket on State Road 23. The description of the revolver used in that incident matched that of the one used in the Notre Dame incident, Rakow. added. 
"We are now conducting a joint investigation with South Bend police," Rakow said. 
"We've seen a lot more incidents (of crime) throughout the summer," DeanofStudentsJames Roemer said, "and we expect a similar increase during the school year." 
Roemer said that most of the incidents during the summer were caused by occupants of the rooms who left their doors unlocked. 
"This was the biggest problem, especially in Grace and Planner," Roemer said. "We strongly recommend that students lock their doors any­time they leave their rooms and at night while they are asleep." 
Roemer also cautioned female students to avoid traveling alone or in pairs in remote areas of the campus. He encouraged residents of the Villa Angela dormitory at St. Joseph High School to 
[cont. on page 4] 

Wyszynski, who spent years under house arrest during the Stalinist era, declared, "The better we work, the more jus­tified are our rights and then we can formulate our demands. The better we work, the strong­er will be the support and help from our Madonna. This is the basic foundation of our dem­ands. There is no other way." 
He asked the predominantly Catholic nation for "quiet, mutual balance, prudence, re­sponsibility and the spirit of truth." 
The Cardinal's appeal was made in the southern city of Czestochona during a celebra­tion of a religious feast han oring the Madonna of Czesto­chona, a national patron. 
The government's use of the prelate's comments reflected the severity of Poland's labor crisis. 
Workers who have paralyzed the northern Baltic region for nearly two weeks clung to their demands for free trade unions and rejected a government bid 
to  limit  negotiations  to  the  
Goansk  area,  center  of  the  
labor unrest.  
In  Gdansk,  leaders  of  the  

Inter-factory Strike Commit­tee, which claims to represent an estimated 300,000 strikers on the crippled Baltic coast, hardened their kev demand ­
[cont. on page JJ 


the classes and even the hall rectors. 
Conyers stated that "If we fancy ourselves as a serious ad­visory body, we will continue to be frustrated." 
Turzai, a former CLC member, also feels that the student voice, as it is embodied in the CLC, lacks strength. 
Turzai pointed out that the presence of admnistration offi­cials on the council defeats the council's purpose~ "They can say no before we even say anything," Turzai said. He also cited an excess amount of deliberation, calling it "counterproductive." 
Conyers has announced that he will not seek another term on the CLC, and he favors a can­cellation ofany new elections for council members. Turzai agreed in part, saying that the CLC "should be permitted to die." 
In spite of their statements, 

Carter accepts debate bid
Conyers and Turzai expressed Powell said. 

A spokesman for Reagan said the Repuplican candidate had received the press club's invita­tion also but would not reply until at least today. 
If Reagan accepts the invita­tion; the White house hopes the debate will occur in the first half of September, before the Sept. 18 debate the League ofWomen Voters has scheduled. Indepen­dent presidential candidate John Anderson could be invited to that along with Carter and Reagan. 
In a telegram to the chairman of the board of governors of the press club, Carter said he looked forward to the debate "as the beginning of a constructive cross-examination of the candi­dates by members of the press." 
He said the "earliest possible date would be preferable so that the maximum number of de­bates can be scheduled," adding his campaign aides were ready to "discuss format and timing im­mediately." 
Powell attended a meeting yesterday with representatives of the Reagan campaign and the League of Women Voters in an attempt to resolve questions over debates the League wants to sponsor, but he said it became clear that the League did not intend to schedule a debate sole­ly between Carter and Reagan. 
"They have not been able to give us assurances of a one-on­one debate," Powell said. 
The President and his aides 
have said repeatedly that while 
Carter is willing to debate other 
candidates, what he wants first 
and most is a head-to-head con­
frontation with Reagan. 
White House Chief of Staff Jack Watson said Sunday that Carter insisted that the first de­bate of the fall campaign be between just Dem\ 1.tic and Republican candidates. 
-

Wednesday, August 27, 1980-page 2
News Brie~ 

~==~~======~============================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
The mariiuana that grows wild in the fields of some nor~ern 1ndiana counties is now ripe for plucking and so are the pluckers, say the police. More than 25 persons have been arrested in Newton apdJasper counties for possession ofmarijuana in the past week, and police expect to make more apprehensions. Before it's all over, police say they probably will arrest 80-100 persons. 
The problem is-that marijuana fields were cultivated in 
Newton, Jasper, PulaskiandStarkecountiesduring World War 
I and the pot was used to make rope because the supplyofhemp 
was low. The marijuana took seedandauthorities have notbeen 
able to get rid of it. 
Most ofthe time, the pot pluckers don't receive an extended 
jail term unless they have a previous record. Thirty to sixty days 
is the usual term, police say. 
Sasquatch has forsaken his home in the Pacific _Northwest to visit rural Pennsylvania near Johnstown. 
Conemaugh Township authorities are baffled by the large 
footprint and partial print found near the home of the James 
Young family on Sunday. The creature, also known as Bigfoot, 
is said to stand between seven and seven and a half feet high and 
weigh around 300 pounds. Police chief Kenneth Williamson 
said the print measured 17 3/4 inches long by 7 1/2 inches wide 
•rd left a 3 3/4 inch depression behind the Youngs' home. 
French navv vessels fired water hoses to scatter fishing boats bloCking the oil port ofAntifer yesterday and three car ferries and three freighters ran a blockade of striking fishermen at the port ofLeHavre. Eleven navy vessels steamed into Antifer in the second naval intervention since fishermen went on strike two weeks ago demanding relief from high fuel prices and from economy measures that they argue will cost many of them their jobs. A small srike earlier this month by fishermen in the northern port of Boulogne has ballooned into a national crisis involving most ofthe country's 25,000 fishermen. Other posts on France's northern and western coasts remained blocked, as did Fos-Sur-Mers, France's busiest oil terminal, on the Mediterranean near Marseille. Premier Raymond Barre has said he will notallow the fishermen to threaten France's vital supplies of oil. Fos and Antifer, the country's two largest oil-receiving ports, handled 34.3 billion barrels of the 42.1 billion barrels of crude oil that France imported last year. Negotiations between the disgruntled 6shermen and tlre government ·so far have produced no settlement. Talks broke down again Monday when the representative ofthe communist-led Confederation General du Travail walked out. Another session was set for tomorrow. 
Someone burned a cross on the lawn of the Valparaiso daily paper and left two calling cards reading "racial purity is America's security," and the paper's managing editor can't figure out why. Karl Henrichs, managing editor of the Valparaiso 'Vidette-Messenger, said yesterday that as far as he knows, the paper has written nothing to incite Monday night's burning. The cross, four feet tall and three feet wide, was wrapped in burlap and doused with lighting fluid. The two business cards were left at the cross's base. Ku Klux Klan stickers, reading "The Klan is watching you," were pasted on a van owned by the paper and a car belonging to an employee. Both were in the lot o.vernight. Valparaiso police say the city is racially calm, and call the incident an isolated one, designed to attract publicity. 
Gen. Chun Doo-Hwan, who emerged as South Korea's military strongman following the assassination of President Park Chung-Hee, was elected president by the electoral college today without opposition or debate. The election of the newly retired army general, which was only a formality, made Chun the nation's third president in two weeks and fourth in a year. Chun, who has held virtually all the power since a purge ofolder army officers in December, did not appear at the election ceremony, officials reported, and he did not plan to make a speech. Chun succeeded Acting President Park Choong-Hoon, the prime minister who served as chief executive after the Aug. 16 resignation of President Choi Kyu-Hah. 
Mostly sunny and very warm today, highs in the mid 80s to mid 90s. Mostly clear tonight, lows in the mid to upper 60s. Partly sunny tomorrow with a slight chance of afternoon thundershowers. Highs in the mid 80s to mid 90s. 

InsideWednesday 


TV~ No. 1media disaster 
I 

Political platforms are an interesting thing. Interesting because so much sweat is expended on them and so little attention is paid to them one week after their completion. Rarely are they more than ideological harangues decrying the opposing party's policies and advocating their own versions of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. 
This year could turn out to be different, for several reasons. 
One reason is that the composing process of both the Democratic and Republican platforms attracted much more media attentio~ than they merited. This is because the political primary elimination contes't produced winners in both races well before convention time, which left the news-hungry press without anything to cover. 
As many are now coming to realize, these conventions are now nothing more than coro­natiorts, a grandiose winners circle for the survivor of the primaries. Both the electronic and print media are reassessing the value oftheir heavy-duty coverage in light of this reality, although inde­pendentTV statiQns quite enjoyed the prime-time saturation. "The Twilight Zone" never had it so good. 
Unfortunately, the powers that be within the media had already slotted heavy coverage for the conventions, and they had to find something to broadcast/print. So they turned their attention to the pre-convention platform hearings. If ever a mountain was made from a molehill, it was here. It could turn out to have a noticeable effect in the fall, at least for the Republicans. 
In Detroit, an anti-ERA candidate was to garner the GOP nomination for the first time in 40 years. As is usual, that candidate's backers controlled the platform committee, and, as is usual, subsequently inserted their man's views into the document. Women Republicans, disappointed that their party planned to drop its support of the ERA, prepared to protest, as is usual. The media pounced. 
The conflict, rather minor actually, was mag­nified into a bloody intra-party battle. Millions of Americans who would have otherwise been com­pletely una~are of the Republican platform position on anything now knew that the GOP no longer backs the ERA. On the nightly news, we were treated to Republican Party Co-Chairman Mary Crisp's tearful resignation from the party over the issue, even though a Reagan aide in­formed us that-her departure was inevitabl~ anyway. 
In any event, those same millions never knew, and still don't know for the most part, that Ronald Reagan was always opposed to the ERA, but thanks to the media, they know now. We talked to scads of people, both in Detroit and after the convention, who were sorely disappointed with the GOP's new stance, and there can be no 

Tom 

Jackman 


denying that this will cost the Republicans votes in 
November. 

In New York, the scene was slightly different. Jimmy Carter's people learned from what hap­pened to the Republicans, and made sure Ted Kennedy's backers were fully pacified, even if it meant backing down on several issues. That's one thing Ronald Reagan can't be accused of. 
Yet, the allimportantunity wasn't quite achieved in the Garden like it was in Detroit, and the media made sure we realized this. Kennedy was de­termined to go out with his pride intact, and his wham-bang speech on the second night satisfied that goal. However, one thing it did not do was to call for a unified effort in the fall; and Kennedy's less-than-enthusiastic appearance on the final night was all too apparent on television sets across the country. 
As for the platforms themselves -well, their contents differ only slightly from previous years. As can be expected, the party out ofpower has the advantage of an incumbent record to feast upon, and the Republicans take particular joy in . dismantlingJimmy Carter's less than sterling per­formance. In fact, it was reported during the well­reported GOP hearings that one committee member insisted on altering the period to an exclamation mark in the line "Mr. Carter must go!" in the platform 
The incumbent party will usually attempt to promote its accomplishments and downplay its failures. For the Democrats, the former have been too few to build up a whole platform. Instead, what we have here is notan idealogue, buta monologue 
-comedy at that. Dig these punchlines: "While the past three and a half years of Democratic leadership have been years of growth for our economy, we now find ourselves ina recession .... A strong anti-inflation program has been initiated and pursued aggressively, to deal both with the short-term inflation problem and with the long­term causes of inflation. The effects of the short­term effort are now evident: inflation is beginning to com~ down .... The record ofthe past four years is a testament to what the Democrats can do working together." 
We don't want to ruin the rest for you-it's a lousy story, but a lot of laughs. Perhaps that accurately describes Jimmy Carter's administra­tion. 
Tickets: $8.50 and $7.50 
IICKtiSA~AI\A8ttAIACC IIO•OHQ ROOlRISON~iSOUIIIIIINOoln!lCOtiCOIIOioiAttr ft~SI ft<I,NK tMAIN!IIl.lo~) Sl JOl BAlli~ tlo\M'I81W~IIf !t~IIARI IJIUIH WsPf~OWCO!IU onllKii.loRI BU!!!Illi ~ 11!-COIW':."' WAR~AW ll!CQIHlCOIII~AN> "'PI ~r.IOVllt lltClllllll A~(l lnBf~IOf'IIIIUIIIOH >OUIII~HHXIRI>!.•nll WAVNf ~111141.1 tOURRIVf~CoiYQUilfiS ""L'UQONG~Citlf,UCJI> 
~---~~-------------­
rhe Observer ~wedriesday, August 27, 1980 -page 3 

Netherlands succumb to pressure, desert Jerusalem embassy ... 

The print sgle continues through Friday in LaFortune. (photo by Beth Prezio) 
internatonal circles. The Arabs have delivered ultimatums to many countries to move their embassies out or else." 
Nehushtan made his com­ments at an ~irport news co­nference. He was here to ad­dress an Israel war bond lun­cheon. 
'The whole world 
. 
"The Dutch government is in panic because it placed its embassy in Jeru-salem out of political convictions. Now the Arabs are twisting the arms of the Dutch to move to Tel Aviv and no one else is helping," he said. 
"The whole world is watching and doing nothing. They are succumbing to the blackmail of the Arabs. No one is lifting a flnger to do anything about it. 

Senior picture sign-ups 
Seniors that have not yet signed up for thier senior pic­tures will have one fmal oppor­tunity to do so. Those who wish to make an appointment can call the Dome office at 7524 on Monday, September 1 between 
7:00 and 9:00p.m. The pictures will be taken from Sept. 2 through Sept. 12 in room 2C LaFortune. The sitting fee is $10. 
week requiring embassies to relocate "on grounds of rele­vant political factors." 
The government statement said Israel's formal annexation of East Jerusalem was an ob­stacle to settlement oftheArab­Israel conflict, but added that The Netherlands also deplored Arab pressure in the situation. Arab countries, who want Israel to surrender Arab East Jerus­alem, have threatened possible oil embargoes against countries that do not move their emba­ssies. 
So far, The Netherlands, Chile, Uruguay, Ecuador and Venezuela have officially info­rmed Israel they would move their diplomatic missions from Jerusalem. And El Salvador has told the United Nations it will also move. There are indica­tions Costa Rica will soon fol­low suit. That would lave only the Dominican Republic, Haiti, Bolivia, Guatemala, Panama and Columbia with embassies in 
Jerusalem, all in the western sector. 
JERUSALEM (AP) -The Netherlands announced yeste­»rday it will move its embassy from Jerusalem to Tel Aviv, joining five other countries in leaving the city that Israel has declared its "indivisble and eternal" capital. 
The decision, by the only European country to maintain an embassy in Jerusalem, left only a handful of countries recognizing the Holy City as Israel's capital and was a serious diplomatic setback for the government of Prime Minister Menachem Begin. 
In a statement, Israel's for-· eign ministry expressed "deep sorrow and sadness" at the decision. 
The Netherlands said it would transfer its embassy in compliance with a U.N. Secu­rity Council resolution of last 
...Israeli ministercalls Arab pressure 'blackmailandextortion ' 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) The U.S. and Europe are being "Israel will not tolerate any -Yaacov Nehushtani, Israeli held hostage by a group of interference on this issue," he minister to the United States, sheiks who have oil and money. said. said yesterday the Arabs are To hell with t\torals and human 
Concerning Iran, he said theusing blackmail and extortion rights and high values," he said. 

condition there is a revolutionary
to force countries to move their He said five countries already embassies out ofJerusalem. have decided to move their situation in which power is in the 
He said the formal annexa-embassies be-cause of pressure gutter and waits to be grabbed by tion of Jerusalem as Israel's from Arab states. somebody. If Iran succumbs to the undivided capital recently has He said the five were Ven­influence of the Soviet Union, it "created a lot of motion in. ezuela, Ecuador, Costa Rica, will be one of the greatest events in 
Uruguay and El Salvador. the last decade. It will result in 
Nehushtan said Saudi Arabia the disruption of the European 
has offered Costa Rica $3 economy and the way of living for million to build a university and the whole free world." dedicate it to its president if the 
Asked if he thought the Amer­embassy is moved. 

ican hostages would ever be freed,He said no other country has 
been forced to negotiate where he said, "The situation is too sen­its capital should be located. sitive to comment on." 
....................l 
r -The Observer_ • 
ANNOUNCING 

THE ·sTEPANMALL 
inthe S1EPAN CENTER 
from9-5 Thurs., Aug 28 & Fri. Aug 29 



furniture . plants artprints applUJnces lumber carpets .. .and more 
~Don't Miss It! 

Wednesday, August 27, 1980 -page 4
The Observer 
by tbe Associated Press '-gasoline. disenchanted Cuban refugees. viving use of a behavior profile However, Barker said, it was During the same period, six intended to help airport security An Eastern Airlines jet bound unclear whether the fluid used in Cuban refugees were arrested at personnel spot potential hijack­
Cubans hijack aircraft 
from New York to Florida was hijacked to Cuba yesterday night by three Spanish-speaking men carrying bottles of an unknown liquid, a spokesman for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) said. 
The jet, a widebodied L-1011, took off from New York's Kennedy International Airport about 9:30 p.m. EDT with 228 passengers and 1 3 crew members aboard, bound for Miami, said FAA spokesman Jack Barker in Atlanta. 
He said the men had yelled "Cuba, Cuba" aboard the plane. 

Several planes have been hi­jacked in the past few weeks by disenchanted Cuban refugees threatening to ignite bottles of 

Place Your Ad Now! 303 LaFort11ne 

last night's hijacking was gaso­line, and there was no immediate word on whether the hijackers were Cubans. The plane, which had been due to land in Miami at about 11:59 p.m. EDT, landed at Havana's Jose Marti Airport at 
12:20 a.m. EDT today, said bastern spokesmanJim Ashlock in Miami. 
"I would like to think the Cubans will be as expeditious as they have been recently, and hopefully we can get them (crew and passengers) back here before daylight..," Ashlock said. 
The plane, bas tern's flight401, was commandeered over Virgin­iaabout10:30p.m. bDT,hesaid. 
Ashlock said about security on future flights: "The best process we still have is checking every­body on the plane. That's why we're anxious to talk to the crew to find out e~ctly what hap­pened." 
It was the first hijacking since federal officials announced ten days ago that armed federal marshals would ride on selected commercial flights. 
That move came after six airplanes were hijacked to Cuba in a seven-day period, all by 
.•. 
. !.·:. .
·.. ··· 
•,;:: • a•. o o •. • • • 
.:.~:::: :·. 
Florida airports in two separate incidents and charged with at­tempted air piracy after contain­ers of gasoline were found on their persons or in their carry-on luggage. 
In addition to the "sky mar­shals," the FAA said it was re­ers. 
Since mid-June 1979, 12 air­craft have been diverted to Cuba. During the 12-year period be­ginning in 1961, 87 airlines were commandeered to the commun­ist island nation90 miles south of Miami. 
• • .Robbery 

"Sudents must realize that [continued from page lJ they have to take responsibility 
take full advantage ofthe shuttle for their own security," Rakow service offered between the added, "There is very little that dormitory and campus. can be aone otherwise." 
"They'll only be there for one "I used to feel very safe on semester," he said. "It's easy campus," the female robbery enough to avoid staying out until victim said. "If you read about it three or four o'clock in the in the newspaper it doesn't seem morning" when the shuttle does· real, but this really strikes not run. home." 
Few alcoholics receive treatment -study shows 
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. greater number of your cons­(AP) -Half a million people tituency then," he said. have drinking problems, but But only a small portion of only a ·fraction of them get those with drinking problems lreatment, the adminstration of ever seek assistance, Thompson a private alcoholic treatment said, "because we haven't ed­center told a legislative study ucated enough people to go to committee yesterday. treatment or to help people 
The committee, created by find the treatment. the 1980 Indiana General Several legislators ques­Assembly to examine what the tioned the merits of putting a state can do about the problems lot of state money in alcohol of drug and alcohol abuse, will rehabilitation programs when begin drafting legislation this . the recovery rates are low and fall, according to Sen. William the level of participation in the Dunbar, the chairman of the cure is lower. panel. In Indiana there is no single 
One potential area offunding degree program in the social for state-sponsored programs is ·work field that specializes in a tax on alcoholic beverages, addiction services, Thompson "Sort of a use-free concept" said. said Dunbar. "As a health-care area, it isn't 
During the public hearing, very popular," he said. Harold Thompson, administra­"You don't have a very strong tor of the Koala Center in sales pitch for people to get into Lebanon, said national figures the program", Thompson ad­show that there are 10 million ded, citing that universities are alcoholics in the country, with reluctant to set up degree another 40 million people programs in the field because whose lives are affected by they aren't convinced the en­lcoholics. rollments will be worth the 
"You are talking about a expenditures. 






'1.00 OFF! 
any regular album or tape purchase with this coupon. limit 1 per person. Expires September 15, 1980 
Call Tim Sacheck, 287-4409 for details 
((hica!lO [ribunt
The Cvmplete Newspaper 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief. .................. Paul Mullaney Sports Editor .................... Beth Huffman Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor. . :.• ................. Mark Rust Features Editor. .................... Kate Farrell The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Editorials Editor ...' .............. Mike Onufrak Features Editor ................... Molly Woulfe 


==Ihe_-Obsaver== 
Senior Copy Editor . ................ Lynne Daley Photo Edttor ....................... John Macor
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
News Editor . ..................... Pam Degnan
reflect the policies of the administration of either instituuon. The news is reported 
News Editor..................... Tom Jackman Business Manager. ................. Greg Hedges 
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a · 
News Editor.. ................... John McGrath Controller. . . . . . . . . . . . . . ............. Jim Rudd
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views 
SMC Executive Editor............. Margie Brassil Advertising Manager . ............ Mike Holsinger 
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and Circulation Manager. ................. Tim Zanni
SMC News Editor ................. Mary Leavitt the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Production Manager. ............. Ann Monaghan 
The Observer Wednesday, August 27, 1980-page 5 

Hammond not responsible for sewage pollution 
.. . Poles 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP)-1 of the pollution, said Colleran. [cont. from page 1] State Board of Health officials Nearly half of the pollutants say they can find no evidence were fats, oils and greases, i­
trade unions free of govern­that the city of Hammond was ncluding grease balls as large as ment control-by threatening responsible for dumping raw a foot in diameter, according to a nationwide general strike. 

sewage into Lake Michigan. Nicholas]. Me las, president ofNegotiations at the Lenin the Chicago Metropolitan Sa­The raw sewage last weekShipyards here recessed yeste­nitary District.
rday after strike leaders told caused a bacteria count 50,000 Pollutants were found abouttimes higher than the permis­visibly frustrated government 19000 feet offshore, betweensible limit and resulted in thenegotiators that promising 68th and 87th streets inclosing of beaches at Chicago.
workers the right to strike­Chicago, Melas said. 
somethng hinted at by the "We don't know what caused The mass was about 15 to 20government-would not solve Chicago to point the finger at blocks long, according toanything. Hammond when Gary and Me las. 
In Warsaw, the workers won others have similar problems," He said water in the areaanother victory when Jan said].C. Stallsmith, chief of the produced 10 million organisms Szydlak, chairman of the C Ce­bnforcement and Operations of bact~ ria for each 100 mil­ntral Council of Trade Unions, Branch of the Indiana State liliters, or about one-half cup,resigned. The Baltic strikers Board of Health. 
of water. The level is typical for had been sharply critical of the He said health officials municipal sewage, he said.

Council under Szydlak. 
checked with Hammond offi­But the rate is 50,000 timesThe Polish news agency said cials Monday, but found no the acceptable level of 200replaced by Romuald
he was evidence of wrongdoing. organisms per 100 milliliters,"
Jankowski, who had headed the The Environmental Protec­he said.
state-supported metalworkers tion Agency (EPA) is investi­"It is unlikely that Hammondunion. Szydlak, Premier 
gating the situation, but is responsible for the lake [cont. on page 6] 'spokesman Bernard M. 
pollution," said Joseph A. Colleran said the agency "ce­Perry, managing engineer of rtainly can't say at this point" the Hammond Sanitary Dis­who is responsible. trict. He suggested other com­The Chicago Metropolitan munities could have caused it. 
Freshmen view 

Sanitry District has said the The Hammond beach has sewage came from Hammond, been closed for 20 years be­but the EPA is investigating the cause of a similar pollution possibility the pollution may problem, according to Michael 
first class day 
By Mary Fran Callahan 

have come from Gary or other Davich, office manager of the
Senior Staff Reporter 

Indiana lakefront communities Hammond Water Department. as far east as Michigan City. 
Freshmen reacted to their Sanitary districts at Milwau­







r-------,
first day of "college classes" kee and Chicago also are being

quite well yesterday-taking I I
investigated as possible causes 
all that was handed and told to them in stride. I ~ ~ ..... I 
Randomly interviewed fresh­
I =t < ol men said they all expected to get "into the thick of things" at I :::t 3;; -1 I once. One freshman did say, I~~ -clhowever, that he did not expect 
I c;; ..... ~"I

to have homework so soon. He then added, "I'm keeping an 11 o g :-" tn 1 open mind though. I don't have 
:lgO ~~~ 
any other choice." 

Notre Dame's academic rep­.1 cg r-~ Iutation for heavy workloads has not astonished any newcomers, IZ-f~ 01 for as one said, "I knew what I was getting into when I decided I I to come here." 

'I I 

Freshmen's preconceptions of class sizes were matched by I I yesterday's first day in the classrooms, as most expected the large lectures and smaller seminars. 
Though freshmen are adjus­ting to classes well, their ge­ographical knowledge of the campus still needs building. When asked if they knew their routes around campus yet, several freshmen simply broke into guffaws oflaughter. Those that answered the question affirmitively said they have been "wandering," "visiting friends," and "studying maps." 

Several freshmen said they use the dining halls as central points and then attempt to figure out their locations "in relation to those points. Still others insisted the best way to learn the campus is simply by 'trial and error.' 
Nervousness was also a prob­lem yesterday; half of the freshmen interviewed said they were anxious. The first day of classes, however, did not scare freshmen nearly as much, they said, as last weekend's orient­ation. 
After traveling the"long way from home, being picnicked endlessly and meeting the people who they must live with for a year, the first day ofclasses was "a breeze"-these fresh­men say. 




----------~---­
IheJD~~t==~~====================~~====== 


~()cl~J'===========~=======W=~=~==~='A=u=~=t=2=7,=19=80=-=pa=ge~6 

9 a.m.-4 p.m. -art sale, spon­sored by student union, !afar­tune. 
8:15 p.m.-SMC-ND stu­ents for anderson, organizational meeting, library auditorium. 
7 ,9, 11 p.m. -fUm: "breaking ~way," sponsored by student !union, engineering auditorium, ~dmission $1. 
7 p.m.-comedy act: obrient ~izzer; and duke tomato and the ~ll star frogs, south quad 
...Poles 
[cont. from page 5] 

hdward Babiuch and other top party and government officials lost their party posts in a major government shake-up Sunday. 
Shortly after the threat of a general strike was raised by worker leaders here, walkouts were reported in the two south­ern cities, according to broa­dcast reports. 
In Lodz, 80 miles south of Warsaw and Poland's second­largest city, an undetermined number of transport workers 
(cont. on page 7) 
...CLC 

[continued from page 1] helpful,'' Conyers said. Conyers also urged student leaders to take their concerns to Fr. John Van Wolvlear, vice­president for student affairs. "Fr. Van Wolvlear under­stands students, and the aspects of student life. Students should capitalize on this," Conyers sta­ted. Tu~zai also showed optimism for the proposed senate. He favored a committee of senators who would be accessible to students who have complaints. The committee would take any such complaints to the admin­istration, and then get back to the students with answers. For the present time, Riehle plans to convene the CLC for a few sessions. "There are some problems that need to.be worked out, such as the overcrowded housing, and the girls who have to live off­campus," Riehle pointed out. 
Molarity 




The Daily Crossword . 
ACROSS 23-mater 1 Ready 24 Droop money 26 Once-a 5 African time snake 28 A-one 8 Tend a 30 Thyroid 


furnace condition 13 Footnote 33 Redden abbr. 35 Pack animal 15 551, to 36 Saloon, Lucullus of sorts 16 Fruit 39 Iota gadget 40 "-liveand 17 "Le­breathe" d'Arthur" 42 Pullalong 
18 Stealing 43 "-of Two away Cities" 20 Sticky 45 Roof parts 
stuff 47 Ambassador 21 Acre's 49 Unbalanced, land: abbr. in away 22 Coteries 54 Face:sl. 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
8/27/80

© 1980 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 
All Rights Reserved 
Michael Molinelli 



55 Eight: 24 WWII site comb. form 25 Kind of 56 Canadian angle 
Indian 27 Shine 57 Rotate 29 -d'art 59 Light brown 31 Ostrich 61 Scorches relative 62 Excellent 32 Dustcloth 
65 Automaton 34 Devastation 66 Onguard 36 "-Joey" 67 Feminist 37 Colorado 
cause Indian 68 Paris river 38 Highland 69 Calhoun and harmonist 
namesakes 41 Mo. 70 Concorde 44 Washing 71 Oldwound place 
46 Penitents DOWN 48 This:Sp. 1 Media 50 Parrots spacecraft 51 Koran 2 Handsome language young man 52 "TheTwo 3 Pinch Gentlemen 
pennies of-" 4 Assassin 53. Of the day 5 Total past, old 6 Vehicles style 7 Snapshots, 57 Name in 
for short lights 
8 Graduate 58 MigratorY degree Marco 9 Planting 60 Fills with 
earth reverence 10 Asian 61 Lenders: 11 Superman abbr. 12 Work units 63 Just 14 Pipe joint claims: 19 "Snug as a abbr. 
bug in-" 64 Squealer 
New at Notre Dame! BAPTIST 

Refrigerator Rentals 



STUDENT • 
PLACE: Stepan Mall 
[in the Stephan Center] 
UNION 

TIMES:Thursday and Friday, Aug 28&29,9-5. 
Bible Studies -Fellowship 
~~~our NEWmodel:
Stopby Bulla Shedor Call 7800 
''TRAVEL-FRIDGE"
Tues -Thurs. lOam.to noon 
~ LARGE(4.6cu): •sooo
orcal1272-3404 Restof Week 
SMALL (3.2 cu): '35oo plus Deposit
Doug Dieterly --Director 
rental fee includes both semesters 

---------------------~--~ ~--­
• 

The Observer -SportsBoard .Wednesday, August 27,1980 -page 7 

• 

Baseball
Brett tracks out five hits 
NATIONAL LhAGUh 
hAST ., 
w L Pet. GB Pittsburgh 70 ~
~6 .n6

as Royals edge Brewers 
Montreal 69 56 
_,2 1/2

Philadelphia 65 
58 .HB } 1/2St. Louis ~8 .464
67 II 1/2

MILWAUKEE (AP)-Red­games since the All-Star break. New York 54 
69 .4}9 14 1/2Willie Wilson added four hits Chicago 49 74 .403 19hot George Brett lashed five hits for the Royals, while Steve
to raise his major league-leading WhSTBusby, 1-3, pitched the first six 
batting average to .407 and Hal innings and earned his fist victory w L Pet. GB
McRae drove in four runs with a 
Houston 

70
single and triple, powering the sinceAug.l9, 1979.Busbyis8-l Los Angeles H .568 Kansas City Royals to a 7-6 againstthe Brewers in his career. Cincinnati 69 56 .,2 2 
67 59 .B2 4 1/2Atlanta
victory over the Milwaukee Reliever Dan Quisenberry re­62 6} .496 9 
San Francisco 62 63 .496 9
Brewers last night. corded his 31st save for the 
San Diego 52 74 .41} 19 1/2
Brett singled in the first three Royals after pitching out of a 
times at bat, then tipped his cap one-out, bases-loaded situation Tuesday's Games when he received a standing in the ninth when the Brewers San Diego 8, New York 6, 18 Inningsovation from many in the crowd scored their last run on Cecil Los Angeles 8, Philadelphia 4 
Atlanta 4, Pittsburgh 2, 10 innings
of 16,824 after he doubled to Cooper's RBI grounder. 
Chicago 4, Cincinnati 2
right-center leading off the sixth Houston 7, St. Louis 2 inning. He started the game The Royals took a 4-0 first­Only games scheduled inning lead. Wilson singled, took
hitting . 398. Brett singled again with two second on a wild pitch by Mike Wednesday's Games 
out in the eighth for the first five­Caldwell, 11-10, and scored on a 
Los Angeles (Welch 10-9) at Philadelphia
hit game of his sensational sea­single by U.L. Washington. Brett (C}lrlton 19-7) 
son and received another stand­beat out a single off Caldwell's San Francisco (Whitson 8-9) at Montreal (Sanderson 12-7) 
was glove, and McRae lined a two-run 
ing ovation. The single San Diego (hichelberger }·0) at New York
triple offthe top ofthe right field (Burris 7-7) /
Brett's seventh hit in his last 
Houston (K. Forsch 10-10) at St. Louis
wall. Amos Otis followed with a
seven official times atbat. He has 
(Fulgham 4-6)
sacrifice fly. •
hit safely in 43 ofthe Royals's 46
• • . Poles 
New York .60~
n 49 
Baltimore 74 .602
49

[cont. from page 6] The often-noisy exchange 
Boston 65 56 .B7 
Milwaukee 67 .528
came during a dramatic, open 60 
Detroit 64 ,8 .H,meeting betweenJagialski and a Cleveland 64 ,,20 )
left their posts. The city is an Toronto 59 
delegation of the joint strike 51 B .411 
important textile, machinery committee representing work­and chemical center. 
ers at some 480 enterprises in Kansas City 81 44 .646
In Wroclaw, 19.5 miles Oakland 64 
_,08

the Baltic area. 62 
Texas

southwest of Warsaw and 62 6} .496
Jagielski said reforms in the Chicago .4}0
52
Poland's fourth-largest city, in­Minnesota 69 
state-controlled unions, an­,4 72 .429
dustrial and city transportation California 411
ounced by Communist Party 74 .}98
Seattle

workers halted work and issued 4S 79 .}63 demands for better living con­
leader Edward Gierek Sunday, 
Tuesday's Games 
ditions to the local authorities, 
would allow strikes in the in­Texas 8, Toronto 0
Radio W roclaw said. 
dustrial coastal region only ifall Minnesota at Cleveland (N) 
Lodz has a population of Detroit at Chicago (N) 
other means ofsolving disputes 
Kansas City at Milwaukee (N) 
820,000 and Wroclaw .593,000. 
failed. New York at Oakland (N) 
The Wroclaw work stoppage Boston at California (N) 
The government negotiator
prompted an almost immediate Baltimore at Seattle (N)
refused to budge on the work­
response from Ludwik Drozdz, Wednesday's Games 
ers' demand for independentchairman of the provincial Texas (Medich 10-8) at Toronto (Clan,) 11­
labor unions and said he was
council. 10)
negotiating only for the Baltic
"We have decided to improve 
coast area, not other parts of,. Minnesota (Arroyo 4-6) at Cleveland the supply of meat, meat prod­(Barker 15-8) 
the country. 
Detroit(Morris 13-11) atChicago(Burns II·
ucts and other foods to W roc­
This was a new wrinkle in the 12)law town and province," he said Kansas City (Splittorff 9-9) at Milwaukee
negotiations, and angered the
in a statement. "This should (Mitchell }-2) 
workers, who objected to a Only games scheduled 
ease difficulties in shopping in separate settlement for their our daily life." The statement region.
also appealed to farmers and The two sides recessed the
workers to· cooperate to solve 1 I
emotional second of
round --------­
local food supply problems. 
talks in the afternoon for pri­
I Buy I
Both cities were the sites of vate discussion ofwhat changesbriefstrikes just days before the they would consider accepta­I I huge walkout at the Gdansk ble. Further meetings were
shipyaqis Aug. 14 elevated the planned later in the day. I I labor strife triggered by a July 1 
Twenty thousand workers
end of meat price subsidies to 
19BSERVERI
listened to the talks over loud­the worst crisis to face the speakers from inside the LeninPolish government in a decade. 
Sipyards meeting hall.
In Szcezecin, a western port Jagielski stressed that thecity on the East German border, 
I ciassilleds I
government hoped to meet asstrikes that shut local docks, many of the demands as pos­I . Ishipyards, transport and some sible. But he said demands for a
city services spread to health 2,000-zloty ($67) monthly pay .I _______...I 
service and schools, Radio 
hike and rationing ofmeat were
Szczecin reported. The actions impossible to satisfy.
did not close hospitals or schools, the radio said, without explanation. 
The Polish dissident groupo Committee for Social Self-Def-i ense also reported strikes at the' Ursus tractor factory southwest of Warsaw and at factories in Rzeszow, in south-eastern Pol­and, and in Olsztyn, in the1 northeast. 
In Gdansk, First Deputy Premier Mieczyslaw Jagielski was greeted by stony silence as he entered the strike center for a second round of negotiations. He hinted that the central government might approve the workers' demand for the right 
I to strike, but the suggestion ·apparently fell short of strike , leaders' expectations. 

··t. .. 
I 
'\,.,., 

r • 
I 
~ 
t 
I 
Wednesday, August 27, 1980-page 8
Sl'orts 
-

Irish soccer team appearsconfident 
by Gary Grassey Sportswriter 
The mood on the Notre Dame soccer team after one week of intense workout sessions-incl­uding a rash ofthree-a-days-is best described as confident. 
Dr. Richard Hunter, the only head coach in the brief four year history oflrish soccer, has sensed a change in attitude amongst his troops from the same time a year ago. 
"I think there's been an ama­zing change," Hunter said yes­terday afternoon. "There's more seriousness and more dedication towards soccer this year than I"ve ever seen before." 
And Hunter's seen it almost everywhere he turns. 
The skills possessed by his returning veterans are better than ever foll~wing a valuable month of spring practice last April and extensive summer conditioning and drilling pro­grams. 
"We came out of the spring knowing we had a good team," recalled Hunter. "They're more self-motivated now, more comp­etitive, and there's a sense of responsibility that wasn't there · last year. They've really worked out on their own." 
Prime examples of the brand of dedication Hunter has asked for and received can be found in senior co-captains Kevin Lovejoy and Joe Ciuni. "Kevin, right now, is playing better than ever," Hunter beamed. "AndJoe is one of the guys who went home and made himself a better player." 
Lovejoy, who in two years has authored the Irish record books with his scoring production, agrees with his coach that there has been a turnaround in the past year. 
"Last year going into the season, we weren't that confi­dent in o'trselves that we could play big time soccer," said Lovejoy. "We were disappoint­Loyola-Baltimore, the Irish ne­ver really recovered from rough going in the early part of the season and their overall perfor­mance was inconsistent. 


ing."  
Despite  a  20-10-1  record in  
1979  that  included  a  2-2  tie  
against  nationally  ranked  

"We were discouraged by the slow start," Ciuni said. "That affected our attitude. But this year, the attitude is great. Everybody's working hard, ev­erybody wants a job, and the competition is tremendous." 
Competition is even coming in the form of freshmen and sophomores who Hunter has nabbed from the prep ranks even without the luxury of scholar­ship m.oney. The three-and four­year veterans have been hearing footsteps from the youngsters waiting in the wings. 
"Two or three freshmen this year have the ability to start right away," Hunter said. "That's making us more competitive as a team because I forsee playing at least five people at forward, halfback, and fullback." 
And one more change has also occurred. 

"One of the lessons I've learned after three years," Hun­ter commented, "is to control my temper and anxiety level. Last year when we had problems putting the ball in the net, the situation mushroomed-may­be I put too much pressure on them." 
In 1980, the changes and lessons of the first three seasons may add up to more victories and a long-awaited NCAA playoff bid. 
CORNER KICKS-The Fighting Irish soccer team goes into action tonight at 7:30 p.m. in a controlled scrimmage a­gainst Grace College on Cartier Field behind the A.C.C. 
NFL teams reduce rosters 
(AP)-Garo Yeprenian can't kick. Neither can Mike Bragg, or Ken Clark.· At least, they can't kick or punt for their old teams. They were cut Tuesday as National Football League rosters were pared to the 50-man limit. 
·Most people who hear about it will be as suri,>rised as I was,'Yepremian satd after the New Orleans Saints cut him loose and stuck (for the time being, anyway( with 1979 top draft choice Russell Erxleben and Rick Partridge. Seven other Saints were also cut. 
'I did so well last year and I was doing well in practices and in c}:le games and I thought there was no way I wouldn't make this team,' added Yepr­emian, who owns the NFL record of 20 field goal attempts without a miss. He started the string with Miami in 1978, before Owe Von Schamann beat him out of a job, then com-· pieced it with the Saints, who signed him as a free agent after Erxleben was injured in the 1979 exhibition season. 

Bragg, who has played in 172 straight NFL games since star­tingwith Washington in 1967, has punted 896 trmes for over 35,000 yards -but last year his punting average was 38.4 
yards, 12th m the National Conference. Mike ConnelJ, a free agent, is his apparent heir. connelJ, a lOth-round pick by San Francisco in 1978 had a 37.3-yard average that year but was cut in the '79 trainir.~ camp. 

The 'Skins also cut five other players Tuesday, including Guard Dan Nugent, and put wide receiver Morris Owens and tackle Mike Gibbons on injured reserve. 
Clark, who did the punting for Los Angeles last year (and did 
'Those people who 
hear about it will be 
as surprised 
as /was... ' 

c~nsiderably better than Bragg ~tth a 40.1-yard average, ftfth m the NFC( lost his job to Frank Corral, the Rams' place-kicker who also punted when he played colle~e ball at UCLA. 
The Rams also traded running 

back ] im jodat to Seattle for a 
draft choice and released veter­
an cor.nerback Ken Ellis. 
] odat was captain of the 

rams'special teams last year 
although he missed the first 11 
~ames with a preseason ankle 
mjury. Three rookie running 
backs remain for the time being 
on the Los An~eles roster-third­
round draft ptck ] ewerl thomas 
of San ] ose State, sixth-round 
choice Mike Guman of Penn 
State and seventh-round selec­
tion Gerry Ellis of Missouri. 
Ken Ellis, a 10-year veteran, played his ftrst stx seasons at Green Bay, then went on to Miami, Houston and Detroit and was on the Rams'special teams in three regular-season games and all three postseason games last year. 
.Among the other 'name' play­ers cut tuesday were: 'Veteran punter Marv Bate­man, by the St. Louis ardinals, 
-Rookie running back I.M. Hipp, Atlanta's fourth-round draft choice from nebraska, 
-Defensive backs Charlie west, by the Denver Broncos, and Doug Nettles, by the Baltimore colts, and 
1-Six-year veteran fullback Scott Laidlw, by the Dallas Cowboys. 
Bill 
Marquard 


Irish Items 
WHO'S ON FIRST? -Since speculation is al· ready running wild about who Dan Devine's suc­cessor will be, we at The 
Observer just want to update you about the most-rumored choices so your personal speculation list will be complete. 
The four most-talked about prospects at this point have been Gerry Foust, Don Shula, Lou Holtz and Merv Johnson. Foust is the head coach at Notre Dame farm club Cincinnati Moeller, while Shula, head coach of the Miami Dolphins and the focal point of much speculation when Ara Parseghian resigned, is in the last year of his contract with the Dolphins. Holtz, head mentoratArkansas, is a much-sought after choice by many Irish faithful and Johnson was an assistant with the Irish from 1975 to 1978, before heading west for greener pastures. 
Other hopefuls with longer odds are Navy coach George Welsh and current Irish assistant Joe Yonto. At this point we should nip the rumor in the bud that outspoken Observer columnist Frank LaGrotta is anywhere but -still in the gate in the coaching derby. Enough said. 
IRISH EYES ARb BbAMING-Notre Dame's opening game against Purdue on September 6 will be beamed to a virtual national TV audience by ABC. Listed as a regional offering by the Arledge network, the Irish/Boiler clash will reach about 85% of the country on the network's opening weekend of NCAA football. 
The other regional games competing with the Irish are Wake Forest vs. Virginia Tech and Tulane vs. Southern Mississippi. 
DOLLARS AND SbNSb-In line with the NCAA's current policy Notre Dame will be eligible for three appearances on ABC-TV this fall. According to the current college rules, a team may appear once on national and once on regional TV each year. There are also special exceptions which allow a team to appear one other time within a two year period. One of those exceptions covers the situation where ABC elects to move a team's game from its scheduled date to the first Saturday in December. Since the network has already opted to move the ND/USC clash to that Saturday, the Irish are still eligible for another TV appearance this year. 
Negotiations are underway for ABC to pick up Notre Dame's renewed rivalry with Alabama on November 15, but no official announcement to that effect have been made. 
What that extra TV appearance amounts to is more green in the University's "General Operating Fund" coffers. ABC pays a $600,000 rights fee for each national telecast, an amount split between the two participating schools. The rights for a regional telecast are $422,929 split two ways. Thus, Notre Dame can look forward to upwards of$723,000 in television revenues from ABC this season, not counting the take from any bowl appearance. 
MUSICAL NETWORKS-Notre Dame has also com­pleted a pact with MetroSports of Washington, D.C. for expanded delayed coverage of Irish football. The half-hour Sunday morning replays distributed by the Chesley network will be extended to two hours and will be available for distribution as early as Saturday night. Metro will broadcast the replays to outlets in almost every major television market in ~he U.S. 
Lou Boda and George Connor will handle the on-air chores. Boda is a South Bend and NBC-TV native while Connor was Irish grid captain in 1946 and 194 7 and is a 
veteran of many years of CBS telecasts. 
APPLAUSE, APPLAUSE-Notre Dame's Sports Infor­mation Department deserves praise for the fine job they did on several publications last year. The Irish publicity crew received awards from the College Sports Information Directors of America for the Best Football Program, Best Basketball Program, Best Basketball Brochure and Best Soccer Brochure of all big schools in the country. The Irish hockey brochure was also ranked third in the country. 
In the district, the Irish football brochure finished second while the basketball brochure was first. 
Congratulations should go to Sports Information Director Roger Valdiserri, his assistants John Heisler and Karen Croake and student assistants Paul Partridge (soccer) and Brian Beglane (hockey). 
TAVERN TRIVIA -Who was the winningest college football team of the 1970's? Notre Dame isn't first, but they are a very respectable eighth. The Top Ten is order are: Oklahoma (102-13-3), Alabama (103-16-1), Michigan (96-16­3), Tennessee State (85-17-2), Nebraska (98-20-4), Penn State (96-22-0), Ohio State (91-20-3), Notre Dame (91-22-0), Southern Cal (93-21-5) and Texas (88-26-1). 


