-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 
...justice -page 2 

VOLUME XV, NO. 19 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17,1980 
an inde"pendem student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 

Seniors: Bahamas or busted? 
byJim Rosengarten 
The Senior class may lose thousands of dollars due to un­expected student cancellations of the Senior trip to the Bahamas. Today the Senior committee will meet to deCide whether the trip itself will be cancelled. 
The original plan was for the Seniors to take a flight to Los Angeles during October break to see the Notre Dame-USC game. However, in March the date of the game was moved so that it could be seen on television, and the Senior trip to L.A. fell through. It was then suggested that the trip be moved to the Bahamas. A survey was taken and 
I everyone seemed happy with the decision. The cost ofthe trip is $415 and last week the balance was due. According to Fr. Pedi, the Senior class advisor, only 98 of the 169 students who paid the $50 de­posit paid the balance, which leaves 71 empty seats on the reserved plane. Ofthe 82 stu­dents from St. Mary's who paid the deposit, 67 paid the balance, leaving 15 more empty seats. If the committee decides to cancel the trip today, then the Senior class will have lost $15,000. However, ifthey decide to leave the trip open to students for one more week and then have to cancel, they could lose $35,000. 
The debt, if there is one, will have to be paid by the university, and if it is a large debt then future Senior class trips could be in jeopardy. When asked why there were so many cancellations Fr. Pedi said that the reasons given by stu­dents varied from those not wanting to go because their friends were not going, to lack of financial resources to meet ex­penses. "Then there seemed to be a snowball effect. We got more and more cancellations." 
Fr. Pedi said that part of the reason that the students took the committment lightly might be because of the previous year's 
(continued on page 4) 


Student landlords invest in local neighborhood homes 
~y Brian McFeeters The partnership finally opted d. h " M · ·d 
. . trt c eap, anmx sat .
t? dea~ dtrectly wtth the seller ~or "All of the money we make
A four man corporation in­fmancmg and bought the . ftrst goes right back into the busi­cluding two Notre Dame frame house at 806 St. Louts on ness," Mannix said, "for im­students purchased a third house "land contract". 

provements or repairs, eventual-

in South Bend early this month Tom Saulser andfriend enjoy the last few days oftemperate South Bend
This means they do not of-ly for a new house."
and is shopping for a fourth. winter before the cold, grey rai11s take over. Sunshine shouldprevailtoday, but
ficially own the house until it is 

Landlords Tim Mannix and paid in full, but the four have (continued to page 4) temperatures are dropping. (photo by jane Ahern) Mike Method bought a first ~nceadded817St.Lou~and616 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ house last December in part­
St. Joseph to their holdings. D.OCUS
nership with former University Mannix said the group relied £(students Rich Thorp and Kirby on "creative financing" schemes Zimmel. 

devised by accounting majors 

Olddocumentsgrow valuable
Now the group is solidly on its Thorp and Zimmel and never feet as a corporation and has intended to make a quick profit. 

begun the private sale of stock, It was favorable for the stu­By Lee Mitgang "So you had some ofthe key ingredients ofvalue but Method explained the dif­dents to invest in the South Bend Associated Press Writer in the certificate: rarity, autograph value, historic ficulties of a year ago, when the area because the houses which association," says Herzog. "Those old shares are four first pooled their savings. would sell for upwards of NEW YORK CITY,(AP}-Imagine cleaning out now worth $400 to $700 each, depending on "We got laughed out of places $60,000 in other areas sold for your attic and running across a stock certificate whether perforations obscure the signatures." when we asked for a loan," he around $20,000 here. "That's from the Kansas City Blues-a baseball club that When Herzog first took a fancy to an old New said. hasn't existed in years. York and Harlem Railroad bond signed by railroad 
Before tossing it out as so much worthless paper, tycoon William Vanderbilt and bought it some 20 think again, says John Herzog, a New York years ago, scripophilists were as rare as, say, a 1930 
Hostage situation 

stockbroker with a 20-year-old fascination for old share of the Nash Motor Co. financial documents. Herzog, then a young broker, joined the Wall He has collected, traded and sold about a Street firm ofR.M. Smythe & Co., which had been 
hundred thousand of them. dealing in and authenticating old certificates since To Herzog, very likely the nation's foremost 1880. "scripophilis" or lover ofold financial documents, With his wife, Diana, he eventually bought the there's no such thing as a worthless stock firm, and about three years ago decided to get 

~ecialco~~#tee 



to decide fates 
certificate. He sees a priceless world of financial more serious about the arcane trade. He began history, even a neglected art-form, in those old buying and collecting old handwritten financial stock and bond notes. ledgers to help him authenticate stocks and bonds.
The Iranian Parliament delay­Iran will deal with the hos­ed a full debate yesterday on tages. But put simply, says Herzog, the odds are slight Today, Herzog's brokerage resembles a cross the American hostages and in a Tehran Radio said the Majlis, that an old stock or bond is worth a fortune. But between a Wall Street office and a curio shop. Files raucous session voted to select or parliament, voted by a the chances are much better that an old financial are stuffed with tens of thousands of old a special committee to deal "decisive· majority" to refer note may be artistically or historically interesting certificates. A card catalogue contains half a with the fate of the 52 Ameri­the hostage issue to a special enough to be worth hundreds, or occasionally million names, notes and references, making him 
cans in their 318th day of committee and discussed the thousands of dollars. uniquely equipped to judge the artistic and captivity. number, qualifications and A Hudson & Berkshire Railroad bond signed by historic value of financial documents. President Carter, campaigning authority of the panel mem­President Millard Fillmore-and by its owner, For a $20 fee, people send Herzog photocopies
bers. No vote count was given.
in Atlanta, said there is no Robert E. Lee-fetches $1,700. An Edison of old certificates to evaluate. prospect at this time for an Speaker Hashemi Rafsanjani, Machine Works stock certificate engraved with R.M. Smythe also holds auctions, taking a 10 early res~lution of the hostage who cut off deputies who tried ornate, primitive electrical implements and signed percent cut off all sales. About 350 items will be stalemate. Carter's remarks to debate the hostage issue, by Thomas Edison would be worth hundreds of auctioned off Oct. 16, with the showcase item 
appeared aimed at clarifying earlier statements that had been taken as optimistic and at variance with the cautious as­sessments of Secretary of State EdmundS. Muskie. 
The Iranian decision to turn the hostage issue over to a 
_ special committee was taken over the objection of some deputies armd calls for the execution of "sp}'/hostages." The action, in effect, postpon­ed the awaited parliamentary debate that was to decide how said discussions on the new committee will continue when Parliament meets tomorrow. 
But in line with revolutionary leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Kho-· meini's pledge that the parlia­ment would decide the fate of the hostages, Rafsanjani assur­ed deputies that "the final decision will be by the Majlis itself.'' 
The parliament session quick­ly turned into a shouting match 
(continued to page 4) 
dollars for the art work alone. 
Or take those stock certificates of the Kansas City Blues, a former farm team of the New York Yankees. Herzog said he acquired the notes, dated 1933, about six months ago. Research and simple observation revealed some interesting things about them. 
He was intrigued by the signatures: Del Webb, Dan Topping, Larry MacPhail and Tris Speaker, all giants in baseball history. 
Apparently the Kansas City club had issued public stock in the Depression years, just prior to 1937 when the Yankees acquired the team as part of its farm system. 
likely to be the Centennial Certificate, an issue that helped finance the 1876 Philadelphia Exposition commemorating America's first 100 years. Herzog says it could sell for $1,500. 
But Herzog has words of caution to those who see scripophily as a means to quick profits or an inflation hedge: "I discount that. I don't think that's a good reason to buy. The fact that collections have turned out to be good invest­ments is incidental." 
As people learn more about what's "hot" and what's not, and as more certificates are put back 
(continued on page 2) 
--~-----~=,.,.---­
--....::..:..;,;..:.__ --.:
r -----··""=-? --~ -··--:.-oo:-. ­
News Brieb Wednesday,September17, 1980-page2 
~b=y~Th~e~O~ru=e=rv~er~a=nd~Th?e=A~~=~~~=~~d~P="1=1=TI~n==s;id;=e~~~~ecbl~=e=s=d;=a=y========================================~ 
Patrick Lucey earned a spot on Indiana's ballot yesterday as the running mate of independant presidential candidate John Anderson, after a week of court-ordered delays. 
During a hearing in Marion Superior Court, Anderson supporters turned over petitions with 7,762 signatures nominating Lucey as the National Unity Party's candidate for vice president 
The hearing was scheduled to consider the need for continuing a temporary restraining order which the Anderson camp obtained last week to prevent the state from printing the presidential ballots until Lucey could qualify. Indianapolis lawyer Karl Stipher,sitting as judge pro tern in the case, called a recess to allow John N. Shanks II, executive director of the State Election Board, time to count the signatures to make sure they had at least 6,982-the minimum required by law. · 
Battle ofBritain pilots met up again yesterday with some of their former German enemies, 40 years after saving England from a planned Nazi invasion. 
British and German aces who took partin the aerial dogfights that changed the course of World War II flew together from London's Gatwick Airport to Winnipeg, Canada, for a four-day Commonwealth war-time aircrew reunion. 
Among 93 veterans leaving fot Canada was Group Capt. Sir Douglas Bader, 71, who became a national hero after rehabilitating himself from the loss of both his legs to lead a Spitfire squadron in the Battle of Britain. 
There were similar reunions in 1970 and 1976. "We reckon this will be the last reunion. We're all so old," Bader joked with reporters. 
Guatamala's winged national symbol and 83 other species of birds have been driven to the verge of extinction in Central America, an American ecologist said yesterday. 
Dr. Nicholas Smythe, head of the Smithsonian Institute Conservation and Education Office here, said the Quetzal, also known as the bird of peace, may soon be visible only on Guatamalan state emblems unless there is an immediate halt to "the indiscriminate and irrational" cutting of trees in Central America. 
Smythe said other endangered species in the region include all members of the cat family, as well as bear, wild pig, boar, rabbit, rhesus and other monkeys, anteater, armadillo, partridge, peacock, green turtle, golden frog, ring-dove, dove, hawk, boa constrictor and iguana. 
The Ice Age National Scenic Trail, winding through the state ofWisconsin was created by legislation in the House yesterday. The bill, approved 397-3, adds the trail to the national trails 
system. 
The House Interior Committee, in its report on the bill, said the trail winds some 1,000 miles from Lake Michigan to the Minnesota border, following the natural path of the great Wisconsin ice sheet that covered the land 15,000 years ago. 
The bill now goes to the Senate. 
U.S. aid to poor countries is over-estimated because of misstatements in the national budget, according to figures in a report from the Congressional Budget Office. 
It says the figures for economic and development aid fail to take account ofrepayments to the United States on past loans. Thus the $2.8 billion budgeted in 1978 disregards $302 million in repayments of principal and $217 million worth of interest payments. 
So the net flow ofaid to the poor countries was overstated by $529 million, according to this calculation. 
"A different misstatement," the report says, "occurs in the food aid budget request, which does not include an estimate of farm-support expenditures avoided by the existence of this program." 
That is, ifthe U.S. government did not buy up farm products for distribution to other councries, it would have to pay out more tax dollars to keep up prices for the benefit of U.S. farmers. 
Terrorists fired three anti-tank rocket grenades at the U.S. ·.mbassy yesterday causing some damage but apparently no 1juries, security forces reported. 
They said the grenades probably were fired from a building bout 50 yards away from the fenced embassy compound. 
"Something put a hole in one ofour upper stories butas far as ve can tell, nobody was hurt," said an embassy spokesman ;ontacted by telephone. 
Security officials said no group pas asserted responsibility for the shelling. 
Washington has expressed firm support ofthe junta ofthree .civilians and two army officers installed last October after the conservative regime of President Carlos Humberto Romero was ousted in a coup. 
Thunderstorms ending late morning and becoming partly cloudy. High in the low 70s. Partly cloudy with 30 percent chance of thundershowers at night with a chance for more thundershowers tomorrow. Low tonight in the mid 50s. High tomorrmu in the mid 70s. 



Is there justice? 
Pam Degnan 
TheHackmansareanaverageAmericancouple. enforcement agencies. But what is happening in 
DiehardNotre Dame fans to boot. And like typical t:l:Us town is a direct result of the inefficiency and 
ND rah-rahs, sporting their blue and gold gross incompetence of the South Bend Police 
paraphernalia, the two trundled off to watch the Department. The latter supposedly operates 
Fighting lris4 whip the Boilermakers last under the guidance and leadership ofMayor Roger 
Saturday. Sounds like a perfect afternoon, right? 0. Parent, a man, itappears, who justdoesn'tcare 
Wrong. The Hackmans' modest abode on E. whether a young boy runs awund E. Angela St. 
Angela was broken into while they were at the robbing his neighbors, or whether a student walk 
game. Nothing was stolen. Perhaps because an . ing alone at night gets stabbed in the arrn, or 
ND grad student from India and his two friends ·whether students and residents alike are forming 
were in the house at the time watching the game vigilante groups, the only key, they say, to survival 
on TV-courtesy of the Hackmans, who from inSouthBend. Some students are buyingguf!sand 
time from time play host family to foreign hiding them in their closets. Some have them 
students. And perhaps because the 14-year-old hidden under their beds. Some simply have made . black boy who did the breaking and entering them strange but comforting bedfellows. 
outran the three students. Fear eventually breeds outrage and those who 
What this all boils down to is that once again the , have been victimized are mad. Mad that their 
SouthBendPolice Departmenthas failed to get its privacy has been violated. Mad that to walk alone 
man-or in this case, boy. They not only know around the block spells a life and death situation. 
who this boy is, but they now This is no exaggeration. This is 
know when and where he what is happening three miles 
operates. They know he only away from campus. Students and 
stakes out houses in his neigh-other residents are gathering 
borhood. That he only swipes together, collecting arms, pre­
gold jewelry and silverware. And paring for the inevitable battle. 
that his partner in crime is a '· And a battle of blood is what it 
white man in his early 20s and will be if law and order does not 
drives a dark blue Ford. step in. 
An example of a moronic So far the "luck of the Irish" 
pursuit of justice. has held up. No one has been 
The Hackmans believe that seriously wounded since the 
the South Bend Police Joseph Camarada shooting in 
Department is encouraging 1978. No one has died. But 
crime rather than putting a stop ~ unfortunately this streak of luck 
to it. And mostpeople, especially is notgoing to go onforev.er. The 
those recent victims who were S&v'AG crime wave is rising. It will soon 
either stabbed, brutally beaten rise above any kind of control. 
or mugged this past weekend, And those outraged victims will, 
would tend to agree with this in turn, become uncontrollable. 
sobering fact. Instead of follow-By then, it will be much too late. 
ing up on leads, the big boys in But let's return to the Hackmans. The couple is 
blue relish the thought ofjumpinginto their white still sitting, waiting for someone to assure them 
cruisers to do battle with underage teens trying to that their property will be safe and sound. That it 
snealC into Corby's. Meanwhile, somewhere in the will be safe to walk around the block at night. And 
night, outon St. Louis St., there is a guy who really that a state of normalcy will return to this town. 
digs knifing unwary people. Is there justice? 
Let's go back to the Hackmans. They too know 
the identity of the young boy who tried to steal a 
few of their belongings. But their hands are tied. 
They can't do anything but sit and wait for the 
...Stock 
police to go after the boy. And to make matters 
more frustrating, when the Hackmans questioned (continuedfrom page 1) 
various police officials as to when to expect some into collector circulation, some ,items may"justice", the response was something close to fluctuate in value. 
"it's not our job." 

For example, stock certificates of the originalIf it's not the job of the South Bend Police Standard Oil Co., signed by founder John D. 
Department to protect our welfare, then who is Rockefeller, were discovered about a year ago and responsible? The courts? That's what the police were selling for about $150. Months later they seem to think. 
were selling at auction for about $1,600 each, but Granted, many loopholes do exist in the apparently have now settled back to around American justice system thatcan virtually paralyze $1,400. 
~The_Ohsettpte Design Editor ........ Scoop Asst Design Editors .... Patty Kevin Joe Copy Editor............ Erin News Editor ......... Margie Editorial Layout . .... Randee Sports Layout. ......... Chris Typists . ..............Kathy Kathy Marilyn Scoop Night technician ...... Kathy Systems teechnician . .... Steve Systems Technician . .... Steve Day Editor . .......... Molly Photographer ........... Jane  
The Oburver (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. S~nd clua postage paid, Notre Dame. lndlall 46556. • The Obllmr Is a member II the Associated Press. All r~lon rights are reserved.  


Whetheryou're preparingfor a luncheon before thegame, a dinnerafter the game, or even an evening snack, you'll beglad you shopped at Dick&Co. for the finest quality ·and variety meats. . 
Select from •••••• Bratwurst 
Polishsausage Hamburgerpatties 
Steaks 

and much more
......... 

"Shop where thefinest restaurants 
shop" 
709 North Nlles Ave. ~uth Bend,lnd 
232-9927 (One blocknorthof · Sunnyltaly Restaurant The Observer 




HPC organizes United Wavfund 
by Tim Vercel/otti Staff Reporter 

Organizers of the 1980 Notre Dame United Way campaign announced plans for the upcom­ing fund drive at a meeting of the Hall President's Council last night. The campaign, which will take place the week of Septeft'ber 18-0ctober 5, will be conducted by each dorms' hall council. The goal of the drive is %100 student particif1!tion, with each student donating two dol­lars. 
Brother Joseph McTaggert, advisor to the campaign staff, called the HPC a necessary link in the student drive. "We need your planning and· encourage­ment in the halls. We need you squarely behind us," McTaggert said. 
He pointed out that Notre Dame is a significant part of the South Bend community. Ac­cording to McTaggert, thirty-six area organizations benefit from the proceeds of the United Way drive. He also pointed out that no money goes to either abor­tion clinics or to Planned Parenthood. McTaggert called the campaign "a gospel project. It's part of Christianity." 
Mike Sexton, chairman of the drive, thanked the HPC for their assistance, and announced a meeting, to be held on Sunday, September 21, at 7:00p.m. in the 
Pricing rollercoaster 
OPEC nations disagree 
VIENNA, Austria (AP)­Ministers of the world's oil cartel said yesterday they were making 
• progress on a long-term plan to boost prices by small amounts every three months. But Saudi Arabia said it wants militant members to lower their prices for the first time in OPEC's history before the scheme takes effect. 
Oil, finance and foreign 
minister of the 13-nation 
Organization of Petroleum 
Exporting Countries spent a 
second day discussing the plan to 
link oil prices to world inflation, 
eco/ economic growth rates and 
currency fluctuations. 
Western experts have estimat­
ed that the Saudi-backed pro­
posal would push ~il prices up 
about 15 percent over the next 
12 months. 
Iran and Algeria, two militant 
members, proposed alternate 
plans that would raise prices 
more rapidly, oil ministers said. 
But Saudi Oil Minister Sheik 
Ahmed Zaki Y amani said the two 
sides "were not far apart." 
The plan is supposedto receive formal approval at a summit of OPEC chiefs ofstate in Baghdad, Iraq, Nov. 2-4. It cannot take 

OCcrime 
Student leaders will hold a meeting tonight in Lafortune Little Theatre at 7:30 to discuss the Off-Campus crime situation. All students, especially those living off-campus are encourag­ed to attend and voice their opinions. 

Library Auditorium for all hall vice-presidents and section lead­ers who will be working on the campaign. 
In other HPC business, Anne Fink, one ofthe organizers ofthe senior class trip, appealed to the Council to drum up support for the excursion to the Bahamas. Reservations for the trip have been opened up to students and their families, and according to Fink, eighty-six spots must be filled by this Friday. "Ifwe don't get enough people, the University is going to lose ·a lot of money, and they will not sponsor future senior trips,"" Fink stated. 
Student voter registration was another subject of discussion at last night's meeting. Student body President Paul Riehle told 

the HPC that deputies would be registering students for the November fourth election in the dining hall lobbies during lunch and dinner for the remainder of • the week. Becuase the deadline for registration by deputies is­this Friday, Riehle is exploring the possibility ofbusing students to the County-City Building in South Bend. Students can register there until October 6. 
HPC chairman Phil Vanderhoef£ concluded the meeting with a request that all hall presidents have their hall budget proposals to him by mid­night, Thursday night. 
effect, however, until OPEC 

unifies its prices, which currently r~------------------------------~-----------~ range from Saudi Arabia's $28 
St.Mary'sSAPB:NDStudent 1 for a 42-gallon. barrel to $3 7 charged by Algeria, Libya and 
presentThursday, Sept. 181 
Nigeria. 
The hawks want the Saudis to raise their price to the official OPhC level of $32 but Saudi 

The AmazingForeign Minister Prince Saud al­Faisal said countries charging higher prices will have to redus;e 

Kreskin 
them in return. "Some countries who over­priced their oil will have to come 

8pm inAngela Athletic Facility
down, the minister said. 

OPhC members occasionally have granted temporary dis­Tickets availablein SMC ticket counts or eliminated temporary premiums for their oil but have ~ -offices; dining halls f 
never lowered the official selling 

prices, as the Saudis want. ~--------------------------------------------~ 


Wednesday, September 17 library Auditorium 8:00pm James Hall 
"Promise Them Anything '' 

A 50year retrospective of political campaign commercials-free admission sponsored by SU Academic Commission 
Scuba Qasses Fall Session : 
·Meeting: Thurs., Sept.l8 
7:00pm LaFortune Room 2D Bring $30deposit 
Scuba trip to Cozumel over Thanksgiving break Do your certification dives in the beautiful Caribbean ! ! Details at meeting 



The Observer Wednesday, September 17, 1980-page 4 
·.. 
Hijackers 

face drastic measures 
MIAMI,(AP) -in a statement hailed by U.S. officials, the Castro government warned Cuban refugees yesterday that they made "a one-way trip" to the United Stafes. It said those who hijack planes to return home face "drastic penal 1neasures" and could be extra­dited. 
"The scum have become 
lisillusioned. Thousands have Itad bitter experiences in the ''ankcc paradise and now want lo Come back to Cuba," the 1 :ommunist Party newspaper < ; ranma said in a front-page .1 rl ide which was read over Radio llavana and monitored in Miami. 
Advancement Does Not Require An AdVanced Degree 
You can spend another two to three years 1n graduate school or you can turn four years ofliberal arts education into a practical, challenging and rewarding career in just three month"S-as an Employee Benefit Specialist. 
Benefits today amount from 30 to 35 percent of wages and salaries. Recent pension legislation has created even more demand for trained specialists. As an Employee Benefit Specialist you'll be called upon to excercise your own judgement, initiative and intelligence in a challenging, professional environment with progressive responsibility. 
The Institute for Employee Benefits Training is the first and most prestigious school in the United States, training Employee Benefits and Pension Specialists. This is a dynamic, growing career field in which advancement does not require an advanced degree. Our graduates are in demand by law firms, pension consulting firms, insurance companies, banks, and personnel and benefits departments of corporations. The Institute's Placement Service will place you too. If not, you will be eligible for a substantial tuition refund. 
Furthermore, you will earn graduate credit towards a Master of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law for all course work completed at The Institute. 
Ifyou're a senior of high academic standing and looking for a meaningful career, contact your Placement Office for our catalog and arrange to have an interview with our repre­sentative. 
We will visit your campus on: Wednesday, October 15 
The Institute 
235 South 17th Street for 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600
Employee Benefits Training 

(Operated by Para-Legal, Inc.) 
Approved by The American Bar Association 
Programs Earn Full Credit Toward M.A. in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law. AC-0035 

RANDALL'S NEW CENTURY INN 
FOR RESERVATIONS CAll out of state 800 348 -2412 ~ In Indiana 219 272 -7900 
oN ouR RooM AArEs 

TH'EENTIRE NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY (eicluding special events) 
OF THEloLL ROAD ExiT ON US 
. / 
CHINESE-AMERICAN CUISINE UVE ENTERTAINMENT 
"' .. , .... _ ....................... 4,,,
I • o I I I 
(continued from page 1) 

trip, where cancellations were encouraged due to the large number of students who signed up. "Perhaps they felt that they didn't have to go if they signed up," he commented. 
One of Fr. Pedi's main con­cerns is what effect this year will have upon future Senior trips. If the university ends up having to pay thousands ofdollars because of the cancellations, they won't let it happen again. "And un­derstandably so," Fr. Pedi added. "They won't want to take the chance that something could go 
wrong  due  to  a  whim of the  
students."  
Who  is  to  blame  for  the  

economic problems of the trip? "It's hard to fix the blame," he said. "If there is a fault, it would have to lie with the individual who didn't keep his or her 
...Bahamas 
committment. However, I don't think that the cancellation of the 
L.A. trip is to blame." He said that the students were given enough warning of the change and that the general consensus was to go to the Bahamas. However, Anne Fink, one of the two Seniors running the Senior trip, said that more students than just the ones interested in the trip filled out the surveys, and as a result the decision to go to the Bahamas may not have been the decision of those who were planning to go on the trip. She went on to say that they had to move quickly to get the Bahamas trip scheduled. 
Now the Senior trip is being opened to anyone who wishes to go-from seniors to freshmen. All ofthose concerned hope that this will solve the problem, yet unfortunately the outcome does not look too promising. 

Elections 

hlections for SMC freshmen council members are Thursday. Freshmen may vote in either Lemans Hall between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m., or in the dining hall from 4:30p.m. to 6:15 p.m.. 


NDSU PRESENTS 
''An Eveningof Danee'' 


Homeeominl Danee 1980 

Band:The Game Date:Sat. Sept.zo Time:9:oopm -1:oopm Place:Centu~ Center Tic•ets:$6.00jcouple in advance 
... Landlords 
(continued from page 1) 

Students renting two of the three houises seemed generally satisfied with their landlords who live in Stanford Hall. The third house is rented to a family, though Mannix said the group does try to rent to students, and rented one of the houses to former hallmates. 
Tim O'Malley of the house at 806 St. Louis said that he and his housemates were victims of the recent rash of break-ins in the area, but added that his landlords were not to blame and have since installed lighting in the back yard. 1 i 
Commenting on the crime problem. in the Northeast neighborhood, which has so far not str~ck the other of the group's ·houses, Mannix said, "You can look far and wide on these streets and not find two streetlights." He feels that the break-ins will continue since, "everyone in town knows where the students live and knows they leave their houses empty." 
Mannix said he tried to attend last week's meeting of Student Government with the police chief aii,d mayor of South Bend, but was: told by Dean Roemer's office that he was not invited. 
"It seemed a little strange the next day when articles in the papers , mentioned complaints
J 
(continued from page 1) 

as some members demanded a 
closed session on the issue. 

Hardline deputy Sayyed Fak­
hrodin Rahimi delcared, ''we 
do not need any special com­
mittee or a secret session.'' 

He said "the spy/hostages 
must be tried and executed and 
the non-spy hostages released 
on conditions." 

Rahirni echoed a call by the 
Islamic fundamentalist Tehran 
newspaper . Ettelaat that the 
hostages be tried as spies. 

Rafsanjani ruled Rahimi out 
of order and said speakers 
should stick to discussing pro­
~edurf:s for considering the The proposal for a secret tssue. session was then rejected by Abd~lrnajid Dialameh, speak-the Majlis. 
·•·•··•··················································•··•······· 
St. Mary~ Freshman Council Election 
Vote Thursday September 18 
LeMans lobby lOa.m. to 4p.m. Cafeteria LeMans side 4:30-6: 15 p.m. 
•····•·•·••·•·•·•···•••••·••·•··••·•••••·•••••···•·········•··•··•·• 
HE BAHAMAS SENIOR TRI has openings for NON.:SENIORS (underclassmen, girlfriends, bo:yfriends, family, etc) TALK TO MIKE GIES or ANNE FINK 



(nd) 

OONNA=SHANNON or (smc)MARTHA HAUSMANN or stop in at student 
activities COST: 
towards absentee landlords, 
since no landlords at all were at 
the meeting," he commented. 
Both Method and Mannix spent the past summer in one of their houses renovating the attic as a bedroom. "We do all the work ourselves because there's no. other way unless you have loads of money," Method said. Mannix said that the only ex­ception to this was a Iawnboy they briefly hired. 
Method is the only one of the four member corporation who does not plan to continue in the real estate business affer grad­uation. He' still plans to go to medical school, but senior Mannix has learned enough from his landlord experience to lean away from psychology, his major, towards MBA school and continued business dealings. 
None of the members see any reason to collect their assets and pull out of the partnership. Instead they stress that their goals are long range, and repeat that real estate is no place to make a fast buck. 
Method sees himself attracting investors to the firm ifhe goes to medical school. "We pay 15 percent interest on loans to the business, and if we add a few houses and a condiminium or two to our property, I can see a lot ofpeople wanting to invest." 
... Hostages 
ing for 17 deputies who sought a closed session on the hos­tages, said 'this secret meeting is necessary for the deputies to gain information and see what 
they  have  in  their hands  is  
diamond or glass bead.''  
Mohammad  Mahammadi,  a  

member of The Struggling Moslems Movement which has close ties to the militant stu­dents holding the Americans, bitterly objected. ''Everything should be open to the nation," he shouted. "I am absolutely against any kind of secret session.'' 
Rafsanjani twice warned Ma­hammadi to stop shouting. 
--~ -­
------. .-.---. 

Doing it right requires the proper tools, opportunities, and support. 
At Honeywell, we offer all this and more -because we're continually advancing our leadership in nearly every major segment of the electronics, computer and automated control fields. 
We need talented individuals with ambitious professional goals and the dedication to pursue them. 
If your objectives and qualifica­tions match ours, we'd like a chance to discuss your opportunities for building a career with Honeywell. 
COMMERCIAL CONSTRUCTION DIVISION­ARUNGTON HEIGHTS. IL 
Located in Arlington Heights, IL, the Commercial Construction Division designs, develops and manufactures computer-based automation environ­mental and security control systems for large commercial, industrial and institutional buildings. 
These environmental control systems use state-of-the-art tech­nologies in hardware and software ­including mini-computers, micro­processors, digital and analog electronics, and R. F. 
The Commercial Construction Division is seeking BS and MSEE, ME and Computer Science candidates for instrumentation design liaison, quality evaluation systems, development or software engineering. 
LARGE INFORMATION SYSTEMS 1 DIVISION­PHOENIX. AZ 
Located in Phoenix, the Large Information Systems Division (LISD) is involved with the product planning design, development and manufacture of Honeywell's large scale computer systems. 
LISD is seeking BSEE and BS Computer Science candidates to fill software specialist and engineering positions in software development and engineering. Also, there are a limited number of openings for BSEE and Computer Science candidates for the three year Advanced Engineering Program which includes graduate education toward advanced degrees. 
• 
RESIDENTIAL GROUP ­MINNEAPOUS. MN 
Located in Minneapolis, the 
Residential Group specializes in home 
and light commercial comfort controls 
and control systems. It provides 
automatic controls for all types of 
heating and cooling, air conditioning, 
humidification, and energy manage­
ment applications, including solar 
heat. The division also builds flame 
safeguard programming controls for 
commercial-industrial heating and 
processing applications. 
Primary needs are for BSEE, and to a lesser extent BSME, candidates for development, production and quality engineering positions. 
Our representatives will be interviewing on campus October 1st. 
Check with your placement office to verify recruiting dates and to sign on our schedule. Ask for a copy of our bro­chure, or write to Ernie von Heimburg, Corporate Manager, University Relations, HONEYWELL INC., Honeywell Plaza, Minneapolis, MN 55408. 


Honeywell 
An Equal Opportunity Employer MIFIH. 
The Observer 
Egypt educates 
late 

shah's children .. 

-~------------------­
CAIRO, Egypt (AP) -The daughter ofthe late Shah oflran, sitting on the steps of a private 
American  school  in  Cairo's  
suburbs,  said  yesterday  her  
family  is  gradually  emerging  

from seclusion two months after her father's death. 
Looking like ay other teenager in tight jeans and a white cotton blouse, Farahnaz-or Farah as her classmates call her -said with a note of relief in her voice, "At least we are all together and that is very good for us." 
I am very happy here... the school is good and I have already made friends." 
Farah, 17, just started her senior year at the Cairo American College, a primary and 

The projeCtile slammed into the target at better than 33 million miles per hour. There was no explosion. Rather, the Carbon 12 nucleus fused with the stationary Neon 20 atom, form­ing Magnesium 24 and various sub-atomic particles. 
Physicists at the University of Notre Dame, using the University's own Tandem Accelerator, are studying just such reactions. 
Research has been underway since 1937 when the University's first accelerator was built. It was an open air contraption. The second one, more powerful than its predecessor, was situated in the basement of the LaFortune Student Center, in what is pre­sently the Pool Room. 


TakiPeJl1~ ~rts b§~T/s? 
September 22, at IUSB 
Class includes Diagnostic Test, Individualized Review Plans, Test taking strategies, and Simulated Examination 
Call 237-4191 for Information 
and register by phone or in person, Division of Continuing Education. Indiana University at South Bend 1700 Mishawaka Ave. 

00 
Make more of your weekend with great rates on great GM cars c;ood from noonThurs through noon a day Monday Car comes with full tank of gas. Just pay for gas used and return 
car to renting location D1scounts do not apply_ 
$16
• 

Unlimited Mileage Michiana Regional Airport We try harder. South Benti . ln. 234·1024 Avis features GM cars and trucks. 
Wednesday, September 17, 1980-page 6 
secondary school in suburban fore being granted asylum in But no matter what they wear Maadi. Her brother Aly, 14, is a Egypt last March. Here they lived or how they behave, Farahnaz freshman there and a sister, 8-in a palace on a 200-acre walled and her sister and brother are year-old Leila, has enrolled in an estate as guests of President different from the other elementary grade. Anwar Sadat. And here, at a students. They have armed 
Crown Prince Reza, 19, who . military hospital at Maadi, the bodyguards and commute be­until recently attended Williams shah died July 27 after a long tween the palace and school in a College in Massachusetts, is to struggle with cancer. chauffeur-driven white Peugeot. take his junior year at the The thr~e young~r ,children Iranian revolutionaries, who American University in Cairo, lived with their mother: Farah say the shah ran a corrupt regime majoring in political science and Diba, and Reza was away in the and stole a fortune from Iran, economics, Farahnaz said. United States. But he returned threatened to assassinate him .' 
"We are grateful to be here here shortly before his father's and his family. Others demanded after moving from one country death. his return to stand trial and to another, where no one wanted Now we are all going to school return of the allegedly stolen us," Farahnaz said. and it is very pleasant to meet money as the price for release of 
The shah and his family left young people ourage," F arahnaz the Americans seized as hostages Iran in January 1979 as Ayatollah said, nodding to Maha, her in the takeover of the U.S. Ruhollah Khomeini's Iranian re­classmate from a typing class. Embassy in Tehran 10 months volutionaries neared victory. "Everyone treats us very normal­ago. 
They moved seven times be-ly and nicely." 
New research underway 


NDphysicists smash atotns 
The third was home-built after WW II. It was used exclusively for years, until the)'andem idled it. It was recently resurrected as an injector for the present ac­celerator. 
Research has been funded since 1946 by the Office ofNaval Research, Atomic Energy Commission, and this year, by the National Science Foundation (NSF). 
The NSF recently granted the project one year's operating budget or $428,000 to continue their studies ofnuclear structure. 
A substantial portion goes toward operating costs. The remainder is used to fix the mechanism, buy parts, and pay 
salaries,  including  those  of  
graduate  students  and  the  
researchers'  summer  pay.  Re­ 
cently  the  NSF  granted  the  

project an additional $73,000 which will go toward updating and eventually replacing ·the facility's computer. 
A number of faculty and graduate students conduct re­search on the accelerator. 
Professor Sperry E. Darden -is investigating the spin-depen­dence of nuclear forces using polarized particles, or sub-atom­ic particles thatare all spinning in the same plane with the same direction of spin. 
Dr. John W. Mihelich, pro­essor of physics and spokesman for the group, and Professor Emerson G. Fupk study the gamma rays given off as the target nucleus returns to the ground, or unexcited, state of existence. 
Cornelius P. Browne, profes­or ofphysics (currently on leave), specializes in the precise measurement of nuclear reac­tion energies. 
James]. Kalata, associate pro­fessor of physics, and Ronald E. Malmin, assistant professor, study reactions induced by heavy ions. Also working on the project are E. D. Berners, J. W. Kaiser, associate professional specialist, and many others. 
The accelerator actually con­sists of two accelerators, the home-built·of the post-WW II era, and the Tandem itself. The old is used to ionize atoms and accelerate them to one-tenth ofa percent ofthe speed oflight, and inject them into the Double­-Ended Van de Graaff, or Tandem Accelerator. There the ion is accelerated to "several percent of the speed of light," 
'says Kalata, and then used in the experiments. 
Mihelich said, "We're not looking for anything particularly useful, but on the other hand, what we do find may well be useful eventually. "Lasers, now used extensively in microsurgery and treating lacerations of the eye's retina, were at one time laboratory curiosities." 
"Th~s is pure research, just as nuclear power once was." 
The Observer has an opening for an 



Advertising Manager 
Ifyou: .Have goodbusiness sense ·Are self motivated 
· Want toea~ money 
application deadline 4pm today 
C:Ome up to the office and see Shirley for an application 
L__________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
-------~------------------­

-
i• 

Saturday, Sept.:zo 

1\11'\1 \1 \U~ET~ 
* 1621 South Bend Ave.* 200 N. Main St. * 1426 Miahawaka Ave. * 4401 S. Michigan 
S01.Jllt BEND, 233-4603 ELKHART, 295-6310 287-7744 291-2600

WINDSOR CANADIAN 
* 6502 Grape Rd. * 254 Dixie Hwy. North * 2934 E. McKinley Ave.* 1725 N. Ironwood 
MISHAWAKA, 277-7176 ROSELAND, 272-2522 272.7144
233.9466 

BIG !.75's 


Rhin., Chablis, Pai~ano Pink Chablio, Light Chianti Red Mountain Burgundy Vin Row' Sangria 

D!tfflJ 
Bt':IJ 
Brand~ 



-----------------------~-----------------------------­

r 
r 
' 
~ 
' ­

,

,
, 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
r 





Editorials 
N.D. boycotts·: More facade than fact? 
The student body of Notre Dame professes to be a very socially conscious group. The Urban Plunge and the World Hunger Coalition are examples of such social consciousness, and I whole-heartedly support these programs. How­ever, in recent years we have been subjected by certain groups to the rigors of boycotts. The two outstanding examples of student organized boycotts in recent history are the Nestle's boycott and the Campbell's boycott, both of which were brought to referendum and passed by the student body. However, it is my contention that these boycotts are not truly representative of social consciousness. 
The concept of a boycott is clear, and I will not elaborate on it, but remember its essence is to inflict material harm or at least some sense of shame on the boycotted party. But what is a socially conscious action? Three criteria should be exhibited in a socially conscious action. First, the action should serve a noble and humanitarian cause by improving the human condition. Second, the action should involve a visible protest and sacrifice on the protester's part, so that his action might be a meaningful sign ofsacrifice rather than being merely symbolic. Third, the act must be a conscious one, exhibiting an effort 'by the protester to come to grips with a social problem. 
Under these criteria, such activities as theWorld Hunger Coalition and the Urban Plunge serve a socially conscious function. But can the same be said of the two boycotts mentioned above? The Nestle's boycott, while possibly making a moral statement concerning the actions of that com­pany, is not a socially conscious action. The students have not made a meaningful sacrifice to draw the attention of society; we have .nerely substituted other name brands for the products involved. 
I would also contend that many students who voted for the Nestle's boycott did not consciously act on that decision. Neither did they adequately weigh the issues involved, but acted rather im­pulsively in their decision; and those same people probably did not go home and ask their families to boycott Nestle's products, thus keeping the effect of the boycott minimal. 
The Campbell's boycott also cannot be con­sidered a socially conscious action. Again, no student has done without tomato products (I have yet to see a Domer do without ketchup on his greasy, dining hall french fries) or any other farm products of the like which should have been the true aim of the boycott. Migrant workers in many states such as Arkansas, Colorado, New Jersey, and California have suffered at the hands of un­scrupulous employers, but we have not rallied to 
-their support. We have merely transferred our business to the competitors of Campbell's, who ·undoubtly are as responsible for the plight offarm workers as Campbell's. In fact, Campbell's can only exert indirect and tenuous pressure for improvement of farm labor situations. 
IfND boycotts are to become true acts ofsocial consciousness, the ND community must be willing to make sacrifices to reinforce and give meaning to our statements. What shape could such a boycott take? Here are a few proposed' boycotts we could undertake now, or that should have been undertaken in the past. 
1.) Boycott A.T.T. (and its subsidiary Indian~ Bell) for its role in the violent subversion of the Allende regime in Chile during the early 70's. This would be a truly conscious act, reinforced by the sacrifice of our phone service. 
2.) Boycott the productive elements of the military-industrial complex for irs unresponsive­ness to the American people, and its blatant commercialism that is such a dehumanizing drain 
Dave Cockerill · 
on us all. All such articles as TV's, calculators, stereos, computers, automobiles, and the other abominations of our highly over-technicalized society should be removed immediately from the campus. Due to the deluge ofpaper and hard copy that would result from the boycott ofcomputers, Grace Hall residents should be placed off-campus, wheels and drawers added to the world's largest mobile filing cabinet to accommodate the overflow. All engineering and science students should also be supplied with appropriate abacuses or sliderules. 
3.) The planting of organically-grown crops in the quads would be a meaningful gesture in the face of the pollution of our bodily fluids by additives in processed foods. Ample amounts of fertilizer could be obtained by sifting through Administration statements. 
4.) Anyone who has seen the movie Norma Rae or who has read articles on the textile industry knows that textile workers are one ofthe most oppressed labor groups in this country. To show meaningful support of textile workers, we should boycott all clothing on campus, which would be a real sacrifice in South Bend. If this seems too farfetched, we could at least boycott Calvin Klein and Gloria Vanderbilt designer apparel. 
You know, it just might be possible that socially conscious boycotts could go a bit too far if taken seriously. 




Reaganfoot-in-
WASHINGTON"Like balloonists reaching for the balmiest air current, Ronald Reagan's packagers now trying to float their man high above the ofground levelpolitics. TheWashingtonPost ..... '"""''"" that Reagan is.~pw ''being kept as isolated 
· . .. . press as {>()S$i~l~\'t. llll:C · . .. .. · 
is the AfitFBlqO.per strategy. In •..,..,.........u .....N that. Reagan.has >plenty more uno::'"uu.::• '"'·'·'""·'"the onesaboutTuscurnbia, Taiwan, evolution 
the Vietnam war canw from, his packagers ITnrn•·... it is easier toIsolate Reagan than to educat~ 
At first, it appeared as ifReagan might be allowed $Ome article or someone telling him something at; a . .face down the press~ He accused reporters o(;,J:c;:ception and it will make its way into the speech. ··· · him "half-cockc:cJ? news coverage and said .And ifthe crowd howls, he'll us¢ it again every time, were trying t~saddle him with a credjb when he can't rememberthe source." 
.••.;: ··· . , · lat¢1 .the .crowds havet)'t peen howling. But . .t.initsbw:t:ll'igbtliji ..P:¢nrit maynotoccurtoReagan that running li'M;;a.~:<~-u knows that y·..............• e to be Preside,nt J:>ef. .·.·..· ...· the mouth is, his problem. He is defended by 
can convincingly blame the media foryourwo~\; •.Rkha.rd Nixon, The Republicans' elde.r statesman 
President you have a cover. The press can be sal.don the "Today" show that Reagan must "shape chargedwith threatening national security, not you. upthat staff...You never knock your own man. The With Reagan's political survival not yet generally candidate makes a boo-boo. You go out and take the 
ved to be on a levelwith that ofAmerica~s, his heat yourself. And that's what the. Reagan staff had packagers are hoping that the humbler strategy of better learn." isolation will work. As a committer of a boo-boo who convinced his 
It is likely to flop. Reagan isn't like othet" staff-or ar least its). Gordon Liddy faction-to 
politicians who have reached national status. He take the heat for him, Nixon doesn't unders 
arrived at the top as an actor. Afte.r a careet of staffs any better than he under;stood the mouthing other people's lines, 4e now wants a bitof Where is Reagan to find a staffso large that someo 
out of life with some ad Jibs of his own. It's not of sac.tificial bent ~an come forward every time late, even at 69, to start living by your wits. puts his foot in his mouth and say it wasn't 
With other politicians, the years of succeeding by Reagan's foot, it was my foot? mother \vit are happily behind them. What counts A sounder idea is to wire Reagan electrically now is the saying ofset lines. The script is written for Whenever he departs from the prepared text, 
You are an actor now. You are a political specifically designed Anti-Blooper computer emits 1m::rsoiJLal!e, no longer a political animal. few volts to remind Reagan to skip what he is ab Because Reagan can't be programmed to be an to say. That way, he gets the shock-not the public. 
Colman McCarthy 
actor, his novelty is to enjoy the feeling of being a political animal. He snarls at Carter for being cozy with the Klan. He growls that the Vietnam war was a noble cause. He boldly facesthe challenge ofthe '80s an issue ofthe 1920s: the teaching 
a candidate who r.elishes his independent 
even if no one in Tuscumbia does, was de­:scribed by a Reagan aide in a Los Angeles Times itlterview: "Ron is his own man, he writes his owt. speeches basically, and he'll pick up something from 
\ 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 


==Ihe__Qbseaer== 
Editor·m·Chief ..... ...... Paul Mullaney SMC Nf'ws Editor ........... Mary Leavin Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor . ........ Mark Rust Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Features Editor .............. Kate Farrell 
Editonals Editor ..... . .... Mike Onufrak University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College!. It does not necessarily 
Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe
Senior Cof'J Editor .. ...... Lynne Daley 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported 
Photo Editor .................. John Macor
News Editor ....... . . ... Pam Degnan 
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views Executive Editor . ... Tom Jackman Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC Executit'e Edrtor .. Margie Brassil Production Manager .... John McGnith 

. ' 
l ~ 
l 
I 
l I 
l 
Wednesday, September 17, 1980-page9
The Observer -

Toda~============ 
Campus 
12:15p.m.-microbio­logy seminar "the thiobacilli: microbes that pollute water, degrade rocks and love sculpture," dr. charles f. kulpa, nd. galvin aud. 
)2:15p.m. -social con­cerns film -"controlling interest" LaFortune stud­ent center. free. 
3:30p.m. -tennis -nd women vs taylor u. home. 
4:20p.m.-colloquim ­"processing of acoustic information in the ner­vous system of crickets," dr. harald esch, nd. liS nieuwland. 
6,8: 3,llp.m. social concerns film-"rebellion in patagonia" engr. aud. free. 
6:30p.m. -sailing club meeting, sailing club boathouse, st. joe's lake. 
6:30p.m. -ieee meeting for all new and old mem­bers in room 303 of the old engineering building. 
?p.m.-art dept. lecture -"syzygial growth pat­terns in laser imagery, douglas tyler, smc. 232 moreau hall. 
8p.m. -lecture-"pro­mise them anything," jame!f hall, furniture pre­sentations, los angeles, ca. mem. library aud. spon­sor: auac. 
8p.m. -videotape ­
landlord/tenant law, 242 o'shag. sponsored by stu­dent legal services. ad­mission free. 
9p.m.-free dance-live band -"dallol". stepan center. 
'The Blue aue , 
Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame! Wake up the echoes cheering her name! 
'Pippin' 
meeting 
The Notre Dame Student Players will hold a preliminary producton meeting for their February presentation of the award winning musical "Pippin" Thursday night at 7 p.m. in the basement of Zahm Hall. 
All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who are in­tc~ested in helping with the production in any way are en­couraged to attend. Especially needed are persons with a business background to help manage the financial aspects of the show. 
Those who cannot attend this meeting or who have any questions concerning the prq­duction should call Paul Kosidowski at 8916. 

Molarity 


Peanuts 
I'M DRAWING A COW1 · BUT I'M I-lAVlNG TROUBLE WITH Tf.IE 1-lOOFSESES... 

(I ll 
NOT ~OOFSESES ... '' j.{OOVES':... LIKE IN 11 BEI-lOOVES 11 


The Daily Crossword 
© 1980 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

Bot ARE' Y~U HENPECK$ 


Michael Molinelli 
.:t.•VE ~OT CHERYL 
I 
F!:EPINq M£ RI~HT OUT OF HER. HANP.S 



Charles Schutz 

ACROSS 33 -curtain 1 Get out! 34 Gather the 5 Where leavings 
there's 36 Between 
dirty work A and U 10 Annored car 37 Apprehended 14 Lacerated with the 15 Water wheel loot 16 To shelter 41 Feminine 17 Hardly ever suffix 20 Can or tray 42 lroquolans21 .._the 
43 -nostrum 
word" 44 Clipped 22 Worn out 46 Solid 23 Whitish alcohol 24 Slangy 48 Titles: 
negative abbr. 26 Plucks with .49 Gently a plectrum persuade 
29 Eastern 50 Pacific church Island diocese group 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


53 Planted 27 Worthless 54 Business writing 
degree 28 Stir up 57 "Cruel law 30 Chest wood agln the -" 31 Sacred: 61 Treasura comb. form 
chest 32 Mountain 62 Bunnese melody for one 34 Networks of 63 Abominable power lines 
one 35 Light-horse 64 A Coward Harry 65 Bossy pads 38 Ancient 66 Latin abbr. statues 
39 Comer 

DOWN 40 Neighbor 1 Porch of Tex. 2 Antis 45 Without 3 Span standards 4 Pipe joint 46 ScoHish 5 Invalidates porridge 6 Like suds 47 Sharp taste 7 Poetic 49 "Over 
peepers There" 8 Liquid gold composer 9 Greek T 50 Bird 
10 Meddle 51 Before 11 Lily plant space or 12 Sign gas sol 13 Ohio city 52 War club 18 Moslem 53 Move 
priest 54 Sugar 19 Land of source contdas 55 Greek 
23 Sled leHer 24 Require­56 Indigo dye 
ments 58 Arrest 25 Bright fish 59 Bear: Sp. 26 Indian 60 "A pocket 
valets: var. full of-" 

The Observer Wednesday, September 17, 1980-page 10 
Optimism remains 

Belles win once, but fall twice 


by Kevin Donius Sports Writer 

Corning off a 5-4 season last year, and with ~ive returning starters the Saint Mary's field hockey-team is looking forward to another winning season. The cause suffered a slight set back Monday, falling to Toledo, 2-0, but remains optimistic. 
Under the direction of new head coach Marcee Wiese, the Belles opened their season last Saturday in a tri-meet with Taylor and Valparaiso. They managed to stay even for the day by edging Valpo 2-1, after losing to Taylor 1-0 in a close contest. 

"We played well against Taylor, although we might have been able to play better. Against Valparaiso we won so what else cartltyou say," said Beth Welsh, senior tri-captain for the Belles. 
"We've looked a lot better than in previous years and I think we have a lot ofpotential, butit's hard to predict how we'll do because I don't know what the other teams are like," concluded Welsh. 
Wiese, optimistic on the season's outlook added, "We would like to win more barnes then we lose ...We expect to win because of the talent we have." 
Tri-captains Welsh, Nannette Krauss, and Peg Blum provice much of the talent that Coach Wiese talks about. The captains along with sophomore Lisa Keeley are expected to create the needed sparks for the Belles this year. 
Nevertheless, Wiese empha­izes that the team can use all the support it can get. The first-year­coach encourages students to come out and root for the team saying, "If they come out and watch us I think they'll get hooked on field hockey." 
The next home game for Saint Mary's is Saturday against Franklin. 

Consecutive shutouts befall Irish girls 
by David Wilson Sports Writer 
Despite tremendous defensive efforts the Irish field hockey team suffered back-to-hack shut­outs this past week, dropping its overall record to 1-2. 
According to head coach Jan Galen, Saturday's 5-0 defeat to the University of Indiana at loomington came as no surprise. 
"We played a tough game, especially in the first half," commented the first-year coach, "but one must remember that Indiana is a Division I team and the Irish are a Division II team. 
"Our inexperince hurt us against Indiana. We played well but we still have a lot to work on. We .still have a lot of games to play on our schedule so we should be a skilled team by the time the state tournament rolls around." 
Galen added that the Irish played a brilliant defensive game, limiting the Hoosiers to a single goal in the first half. 
"]ean Grasso did a super job on defense," concluded Galen. 
The team's other loss came at the hands of the University of Toledo on Monday afternoon at St. Mary's, by a score of 1-0. 
Co-captain Pat Crowley main­tained that the ruggedness of the field made it anybody's game. 

"We played a very had game," Crowley said, "and the goal may have just been a lucky break for them." 
Crowley remains confident that the Irish can win Friday ina4 
p.m. contest against Franklin College on Cartier Field. Notre Dame will also host Kalamazoo at home on Monday, Sept. 22 with game time at 7:30 p.m. on Cartier Field. 
... Items 

{continuedfrom page 12} 
quarterback for the 49ers. Brodie calls Montana a "Joe N amath with mobility." He might need mobility if he follows Namath's lifestyle. 
SOME PEOPLE NEVER CHANGE-Onetime Irish 
basketball star (and I use the term loosely) Bill Laimbeer, now a 
rookie with the Cleveland Cavaliers, has not hesitated to voice 
his disenchantment with Notre Dame. Laimbeer told a reporter 
for the Cleveland Plain Dealer that he played a year in Italy to 
regain the confidence he lost while playing for the Irish. 
Of Notre Dame, the 6-ll center said "I was happy with the 
school, but notwith the way I played, or not with the program." 
We were happy with you too, Bill. 


Wednesday, September 17, 1980-page 12


-~ports 
Horak wins ND Open 
Trish 
by Bill 
by one stroke with 291 .1./tetns Marquard 
by Bit! McCormick Sports Wrder 
As Irish golf coach Noel O'Sullivan stresses every year, the Notre Dame Open is not supposed to serve as a tryout for the golf team. "I make selections for the team based on past ex­perience and performance, not just on four rounds," he says. 
O'Sullivan believes that the Notre Dame Open serves a much different purpose. "The most important thing about the Open," he emphasizes, "is the prestige." 
Part of what O'Sullivan is referring to is the fact that the top three finishers in the tour­nament receive handsomely em­broidered gold, silver, and bronze medallions. 
As always, this year's tour­nment was open to all Notre Dame students, rega-rdless of their ability. Due to some rainy weather this past week and also a play-off for second place, the Open wasn't completed until yesterday afternoon, nine days after it began. 
But the-delays didn't seem to bother junior Bob Horak, who came away with a 72-hole final score of 291 and the gold medallion for first place. Horak, a business major out of Rochester, N.Y., managed a two­under-par 69 in his first round and then added rounds of73, 75 and 7 4 to win by one stroke. 
Right on Horak's tail at the end of regulation play were seniors Tom McCarthy and Rick Ruffin, both at 292; thus, a play-off was necessary to decide second and third place. McCarthy won on the first hole of sudden-death, sinking a five-foot birdie putt, moments after Ruffin rolled in a seven-footer for par. 
So, looking at the top three finishers, it appears that the upperclassmen dominated this year's open. But, this certainly wasn't the case. Of the 25 lowest scores in the tournament nine were fired by freshmen. And this surprising statistic makes Noel O'Sullivan very happy. 
"I'll have to give a strong look at the freshman before filling the remaining spots on the team, "O'Sullivan says. "I cap honestly say that the field for this year's Open was the best in the last five years and this is mainly due to the fact that there were so many talented freshmen entered." 
O'Sullivan is going to have the top finishers from. the Notre Dame Open play some of the tougher courses in the area: South Bend Country Club, Hampshire Country Club, and Elbel. After seeing how they perform on these more challeng­ing layouts, he will then fill the remaining five orsix,positions on the team. 
It won't be an easy job, but O'Sullivan is glad that he has such a wealth of talent to choose from. 
The team will open its fall competition on Sept. 29 with the Indiana State Championship. The Irish will then return home to host the Notre Dame Invitational on October 6. 

To Chicago Griffin 
Ruggers drop opening contests 
by Armand Kornfeld Sports Wrtter 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club opened its fall season against Chicago Griffin last Saturday, dropping the "A", "B", and "C" games by scores of 20-4, 12-8, and 10-8 respectively. 
The Windy City squad may have presented the toughtest opposition the Irish will face all season. And as Rich Harper, the Irish captain and head coach noted, "The weather played a definite factor. It was hot and muggy and they were in better shape due to a cross-country program they set up this sum­mer. We just haven't had time to get into shape yet." 
Even in the losing cause, how­ever, there were sterling per­formances turned in by several of the Irish ruggers. Danny Pearl and Rich Levielle played excel­lent games for the "A" team, while Greg Brophe and Bob Murphy led the "B" team. In the "C" game, Pete Ney had what Harper termed "a fine all-around game," scoring once and setting up the other try. 
The Irish will host Ohio Northern Uni;,ersity Saturday at 
Stepan Field immediately pre­ceding the Michigan-Notre Dame clash. The Polar Bear squad is a collegiate club, as opposed to Chicago Griffin which is composed of older players. 
Harper is planning to utilize the "C" and "D" squads against Ohio Northern in order to build valuable experience. 
Palmer College was originally slated to meet the "A" and "B" teams this Saturday, but was forced to cancel at the last minute due to unrevealed cir­cumstances. 


WHO'S AFRAID OF THE BIG BAD WOLVES?-Notre Dame might be, since the Michigan Wolverines bound into South Bend this weekend holding a 10-3 edge in the all-time series. Bo's boys and their predecessors have been invincible in South Bend, having won all five games played here in the series. 
Michigan upended Notre Dame's first football team ever 8-0 in 1887, and their last victory here occur,ed two season ago when they handed the Irish their second loss ofthe 1978 season, 28-14. 
(Interestingly enough, Notre Dame went 0-2 to start its football season in 1978, the same year Pope Paul VI died. The last time Notre Dame went 0-2 at the start ofa football season prior to '78 was in 1963, the year Pope John XXIII died.) 
Notre Dame's grid series with the Wolverines was contested semi-regularly from 1887 to 1909, and then suspended until the '42and'43 seasons. The rivalry was renewed in 1978 and, except for off years in 198 3 and 1984, plans call for the teams to meet every year until at least 1990. 
WHO WAS THAT GUY?-Notre Dame upset the highly­regarded Wolverines 12-10 in Ann Arbor last year. Chuck Male's four field goals carried the Irish offense, while Bob Crable's last second heroics iced Notre Dame's win. Crable, then a sophomore linebacker, mounted the back of a fallen Michigan lineman to catapult himself over the line and into the path ofBryan Virgil's 32-yard field goal attemptwith only seven seconds left in the regionally-televised contest. 
THE DAN AND BO SHOW -Irish coach Dan Devine and Michigan mentor Bo Schembechler rank among the top five active college coaches in career victories. Devine's 165-54-8 lifetime mark is second behind Alabama's Paul "Bear" Bryant, while Schembechler rates fourth at 145-36-6. 
WATER WORKS~ Devine took time to poke a little fun at Schembechler on Monday. Some 50 reporters were gathered in Ann Arbor to interview Schembechler in personand Devine via a telephone hookup with his ACC office. Recalling how much trouble the fleet-footed Michigan team .had with the rainy weather and drenched field on Saturday against Northwestern (Michigan beat the perenially-hapless Wildcats 17-10), Devine hung up from the interview saying, "You'll have to excuse me now-I have to go over to the Stadium and turn on the water." 
CAN YOU TAKE A HINT?-The Associated Press followed the Observer's trend last week, naming Irish defensive end Scott Zettek and linebacker Mark Zavagnin its college stars of the week. The two Z's shared the honor with New Mexico quarterback Brad Wright. 
OPINION-The NCAA's recent decision to ban Notre Dame football broadcasts is just another feather in the Association's fully-plumed dunce cap. If the NCAA wanted to be consistent (perish the thought!), why not ban college football games from ABC-TV too, since ABC coverage certainly cuts into the attendance at many smaller colleges around the country? 
However, it is ABC's television rights payments which keep the NCAA afloat, and the powers that be certainly won't biteth the hand that feedeth. No one, particularly the NCAA, has mentioned that recent ratings have shown WNDU's Notre Dame telecasts have outdrawn ABC's national game here in South Bend, sometimes by a three-to-one ratio. Certainly someone at the alphabet network has made their unhappiness known around Shawnee Mission. 
One really wonders what the NCAA's priorities are when they deliver such crucial edicts as this, along with the banishment of varsity basketball players from the BookstoreTournament and the punitive measures taken against Marc Kelly for playing basketball in the movie "Fast Break" prior to joining the Irish varsity his freshman year. At the same time, gross academic and recruiting violations are being uncovered at universities across 
-the country, with little definitive action being taken by the Association. · Maybe ifthe NCAA stopped watching TV they might find out what's going on next to them. 
GOLDEN'DOMES-While most Irish faithful imbibe in their favorite beverages at Corby's, Senior Bar and V ilia Angela 
·the night before a football game, the Notre Dame student managers labor away in the recesses of the ACC. Their job: repainting the well-known metallic gold helmets of the Irish football team, a task which requires some six gallons of gold paint. 
PLENTY OF HARDWARE -The upper concourse of the ACC is getting a new look. The familiar semi-circular trophy case with its imitation marble pillars has been removed in lieu of several new wood-and-glass cases. The earlier pillar design, an ACC mainstay for ten years, was originally supposed to be used for only six manths. 
A NEW NAMATH-Former San Francisco quarterback John Brodie, a quasi-analyst (and TrashSports expert) on NBC­TV for the last seven years, is high on the potential ofex-Irish signalcallerJoe Montana. The "Comeback Kid," who led Notre Dame to its 1977 National Championship, is now a back-up 
(continued on page 10} 








