... Reagan -Page 7 


VOL. XIV, NO. 125 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, APRIL 23, 1980 
Reagan campaigns at SMC 
by Mark Rust Managing Editor 
While Pennsylvania voters were narrowly giving George Bush that state's Republican primary victory, Ronald Reagan appeared here m a brief campaign stop which included a 55 minute speech/ "dialogue" and a ten minute press conference, all in Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's. 
Reagan said he welcomed the Democrats and Independents in the crowd, which numbered about 600, half of whom were area residents, and asked them •o vault him into the presidency for the purpose of cutting ''that government back down to size.'' Reagan will participate in the May 6 Indiana primary with George Bush and]ohn Anderson, though the latter two candidates are no't planning to campaign in the state. He made two other stops in Indiana yesterday, including an early morning stop in the industrial southern Indiana towns of Evansville and Lafayette, the home of Purdue University. 
Reporters for the Associated Press said his stop here was his warmest Indiana reception yet. 

Campus representatives of the Reaga~ for President Committee presented the candidate with a green Notre Dame jersey during his speech. The jersey bore the number "80" and had "Gipper" lettered on the back. Reagan, a former actor, once played the part of the legendary George Gipp, in the movie ''Knute Rockne-All American.'' 
The presentation of the jersey evidently sparked a slight nostalgic twinge in Reagan who proceeded to reminisce about the producation of that movie and expanded for the next few minutes on his acting career generally. "I did the kind of movies where they didn't want it 'good,' they wanted it 'yesterday,' " ~e said. 
The remarks were somewhat umque for Reagan, who is said to rarely speak about his acting days while making campaign speeches. 
Most of Reagan's speech centered on the economy, big government, energy and defense: He said that ''we have not yet begun to explott our natural resources. There is oil and natural gas we have yet to use." 
''We have got to get the government out of that 
[continued on page 4] 


Ronald Reagan 


Earth Day celebration begins 
by Mary Fran Callahan weeks, expressed his optimism on the quad for any curious 
SeniorStaffReporter about the day. '' f figure if we passersby who happened to 
can reach just a couple of stop. 
Yesterday students scattered people at each talk, we're Flapping silently in the wind 
themselves on blankets on the making progress,'' he com­a banner from an Alumni Hall 
South quad not only to sit in mented window provided an tromc 
the sun, but also to partake in , In addition to the· various backdrop for the performing 
the tenth anniversarv of Earth lectures given by ND and IUSB bands. In bold-face letters, the 
Day. · professors and community offi­banner which proclaimed 
cials, Earth Day also brought "Nuke the Whales" did not
The Earth Day celebration 

live music to the South quad. offend Earth Day supporters. 
began yesterday at 7 a.m. with 

While.students listened to the "It 'just shows the asinine 
a mass on the island in St. 

various bands, they could buy character of the person who
Joseph's lake. Forty peof?le 

fresh apple cider which was · hung it up," one Earth Day
attencled the service, whtch 

purchased from a farmer's worker remarked. 
featured dancers who en­

market. Workers were also optimistic 
hanced the liturgy with their 

Home-baked bread and about the turnout on the quad. 
artistic endeavors. 

cookies obtained from an Throughout the afternoon. the 
Lectures held throughout the 

Amish woman in Mishawaka entire lawri between Alumni 
day, which dealt with energy, 

were also s0ld. ''The goods Hall and the K of C Hall was 
ecology and the environment, 

have been selling really well,'' blanketed with students. ''It 
though not attended by capa­

a booth worker commented and may turn a few people on (to
city audiences, were, according 

added that she already had environmental concerns), but 
to Earth Day Coordinator Joe 

replenished her table once in there are some people you can 
Lehner, delivered to ''very 

the earlv afternoon. never rearh.'' Lehner com­attennve listeners.·· 
Literature dealing with envi­mented. 
Lehner, who along with a ronmental and ecological Lehner said he believes that 
dozen workers coordinated the · issues as well as Earth Day in additicm ro conveying Earth 
entire day's festivities in eight buttons were waiting on tables Day's message to people ·'on a 
/ 'grass roots level,·' a push for 
appropriate governmental 
legislation is also needed. 
''A unilateral effort leads to 
a loss of opportunities of doing 
all that could be done,' ' he 

sa1d. Though he does not plan _ PHILADELPHIA (AP) a result, the competinon for man acknowledged that cent. a career in environmental work George Bush earned an upset Democratic nominating votes Kennedy would probably wm -Rep. John B. Anderson was Lehner said Earth Day's ideals victory over R~publican presi­loomed as a standoff that the popular vote. drawing 2 percent of the vote concern him enough to make 
dential front-runner Ronald would maintain Carter's lop­·'If 1 had to guess, I'd say on write-ins. him ''want to do some kind of Reagan last night in the Penn­sided lead 1n delegate we'd lose it by one, two or Republican delegates ran in work in this area.'' . sylvania GOP primary. Sen. strenghth. three points," he said. their own names, on what Though Earth Day is an Edward Kennedy led Prresi­Reagan's campaign chair­This was t~ Democratic amounted to a mystery ballot. annual event, it has not been dent Carter in the Democratic man Drew Lewis conceded that coun.t from 23 percent of the The outcome of the GOP ,publicized as much in the past. race and Carter's spokesman Bush had the popular vote precmcts: delegate competition was not This year, however, South s~id Kennedy would probably victory. ''Reagan will get the -Kennedy 183,383 or 49 per­expected to be clear before Bend Mayor Roger Parent offi­WIO. nomination," he said. "This cent, for 94 delegates. today, at the earliest. cially. granted Notre Dame 
Kennedy's strategists called victory keeps Bush alive.'' -Carter 163,453 or 44 percent, Pennsylvanid. was the first perm1ss10n to sponsor a more Pennsylvania a must for the Seventy-seven Republican for 91 delegates. undiluted one-on-one presiden­event-filled day, especially senator to maintain a real delegates were elected yester­Five percent of the vote was tial primary in both parties. since 1980 is the tenth anniver­chance to overtake the presi­day, but the ballot didn't uncommitted, 2 percent went There were other names on the sary of the original 'Celebration. 
dent nationally. The Demo­identify them with the candi­to California Gov. Edmund G. Democratic and Republican Since Lehner will leave the cratic challenger was outdis­dates they favor. Brown Jr., who has quit the ballots, but they were dropouts South Bend area this year, he tancing Ca:ter by ~bout 2-to-1 On the Democratic side, the race. or minor entries. could not say whether next in Philadelphia, where he had popular vote apportioned 185 In the Republican primary, Neither crossover or inde­year's celebration will compar~ rhe support of Mayor William numinatng delegates, and with 29 percent of the precincts pendent ballots were permitted with yesterday's. 1-lis workers, Green. Kennedy was slightly ahead. counted: in Pennsylvania. Rep. howevt::r, said they would be 
But elsewhere, the lead be­Even before the polls closed, -Bush 139,372 or 53 percent. interested in continuing this longed to the president, and as Jody Powell, Carter's spokes--Reagan 120,171 or 45 per-[continued on page 4] mode of celebrating the aay. 
Bush, Kennedy shine in primaiies 
----~~~-------------------;__________....__ 
. I 



News I in brief 
Wednesday, April23, 1980 -page 2 



Court approvespermit for Indiana nuclear plant 
-WASHINGTON (AP)-A federal appeals court has upheld the Nuclear Re~ulatory ~ommi_sswn's. a~proval of . a 
construction permit for Publtc Service indiana s Marble Hill nuclear plaru. The decision of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit came in the wake of a U.S. Supreme Court ruling on the long-running boundary dispute between Indiana and Kentucky. 


Famous winemakers develop new wine for connoisseurs 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Napa Va!lc::y winemaker Robert Mondavi and France's Baron Philippe de Rothschild say they will collaborate on making a new American wine with a French accent. ''It will be unique'. It will have its own style. And its own subtle differences," said Monda vi, 66. "It won't be called a Cabernet Sauvignon, although w~'ll be using Cabernet graP.es.'' Rothschild, 78, of Chateau Mouton Rothschild in PaUIIlac, France, and Mondavi, founder of Robert Monda vi Winery in St. Helena, ~alif., said the bottles will sell for about $30 each. 


Weather 
Cooler with a 20 percent chance of showers. Highf in the mid 60s. Lows in the mid 30s. Partly cloudy tomorrow. Highs in the low 50s. 


CamRu...._._s______ 
12:15 pm SEMINAR, glycosyltransferases in model tumor systems, diane jenis, nd. GALVIN AUD. 
1:15pm LECTURE "the homebound older adult," mrs. bearnce lynch, r.n. smc. 351 MADELEVA dept. of sociology, anthropology & social work. 
2 pm MEETING sailing club, new members welcomed, 204 o:SHAG. · 
3 pm SAILING CLUB REGATA, spons: sailing club, hosting university of hawaii and northwestern university; sailing club meeting also, BOATHOUSE. 
4, 7, 9 pm FILM "Distant Thunder,:· LIBRARY AUD. 
spons: econ dept. 

4:30pm SPRING PARADE AND CHANGE OF COMMAND CEREMONY, spons: air force rotc, SOUTH PARKING LOT OF ACC. 
4:30 
pm LECTURE, environment and industrial conflict, GALVIN LIFE SCI BLDG RM 101. 

4:30 
pm RECITAL, joan grabowski-soprano, LITTLE THEATRE SMC, spons: music dept. 

4:30 
pm SEMINAR, "women in the army,'' col grace l. roberts, cmdnt, us army inst. ofadmin & 3 jr. officers discuss the role of the female soldier, 122 HAYES-HEALY, spons: army rotc. 


6 pm-12 am CARNIVAL, an tostal, various rides and games, open to all including friends in michiana area, rides-60 cents, WHITE FIELD ACROSS FROM STEPHAN CENTER. 
6:30 pm MEETING, alphi phi omega service fraternity, ROOM 2D LAFORTUNE. 
7, 9, 11 pm FILM, ''dr. strangelove,'' K OF C HAIL, admission $1, members free. 
7:30 pm DANCE WORKSHOP, mary vanmele, dance instructor at ywca, spons: nd women's organization, LAFORTUNE BALLROOM, free. 
8 pm THEATRE PRESENTATION, milwaukee repertory theater presents peggy cowles in "independent women" 
with the support of the ind, arts comm, & nat'I endowment for the arts, O'LAUGHLIN AUD. tickets 284-4176. 
( 
8 pm LECTURE, "pleasure & principle" prof. robert cooter, u of calif, berkeley, 122 HAYES-HEALY. 
9:30 pm-2 am GUISSEPEE'S PARTY, an tostal kick-off party, spons: pangborn, breen-phillip,s, free b~s~s from ~ain circle from 10 pm on, GUISSEPPE S, admission $2-girls, $3-guys. 
8:15 pm CONCERT,. nd brass ensemble, SACRED HEART CHURCH, spons: dept of music. 
Liberia holds execution ofofficials 
Monrovia , Liberia (AP)-A tiring squad of rifle­men and machine-gunners cheered on by thousands of Liberian soldiers and civilians executed 13 top officials of the deposed government on a sun­baked Atlantic beach yester­day. 
Those shot included former Foreign ~inister Cecil Dennis and Frank Tolbert, elder bro­ther of assassinated President William Tolber.t, as well as the chief justice, the speaker of the House and the chairman of the party which for a century ~overned Liberia, Ion~ Amer­iCa's closest African fnend. 
They had been sentenced to death by a five.. man military tribunal that declared them guilcy of ''h;.gh treason, ramp­ant corruption and gross viola­tion of human rights." They had been allowed no defense counsel and were given no details of the charges against them. 
The executions may have been the opening round of a bloody purge of the old regime by the military men, led by Master Sgt. Samuel K. Doe, who toppled the government April 12 and killed President Tolbert. 
The 13 government minis­ters, legislators, party officials and others were shot in rwo groups-of nine and four-on a sandy dune at Monrovia's beachfront Barclay military 
training post . 

Nine wooden posts had been lined up alond the dune, 10 feet apart. the first ~roup of nine 
men was stripped to the waist and tied, one to each post and facing away from the sea. A siQgle long green rope was used to strap the prisoners to the 

Night Editor: Danny Tarullo Asst. Night Edr'tors: Mike Jans, Mary Leavitt Copy Editor: Lynne Daley Layout Staff I.C. Shequit News E(litor: Margie Brassil News Feature Layout: Mike, Danny, Mary Spcrts Layout: Brian Beglane, Mark Perry Typists: Carol Cornwall, Pauly Shea, Katie Bigane, Kat~ Murray EM·, : Kim Convey Proofreader: John Chaussee ND Day SditrJr: Patsy Car.tpbell SMC Day Editor: Sue Fuegner Ad Design: Paul Hurley Photographer: ] ohn Macor Guest Appearances: Patty Sheehan, Ryan "Forgive Me Patsy and Tom" Ver Berkmoes, Neil "Deep Dish Sicilian" O'Brien, and that pesty Business Manager, Mark Rust, Ann "She Final­
' ly Left Early'' Monaghan, The Boss, Salvatore, Bc:th, John, Mike, Pam, Greg, Mike, Horatio 
The Obaerver (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is publishedby the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Obaerver, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Ob1erver Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved. 
' .._High treason , rampant corruption · 
and gross violation 

ofhuman rights.' 
posts by their waist. 

A crowd of soldiers in battle fatigues, mostly armed with subroachine guns, milled a­round the posts, jeering at the prisoners. Their officers to cajole them for more than a 
,half-hour before they cleared a space for the execution squad. 
Two of the oldest prisoners, Frank Tolbert, who was Senate president, and 72-year-old House of Representatives­Speaker Richard Henries, col­lapsed after apparently faint­ing. The firing squad killed them as they sagged to the ground on the rope. 
One soldier with a rifle was placed in f:ront of each post at a distance of 15 yards. As the order was given, each soldier fired several shots into his intended victim. 
The first shots completely missed Dennis and some oth­ers. The former foreign minis­ter, who was widely known and respected throughout Africa, looked at the scene in apparent amazement. 
Then other soldiers shot bursts of machine-gun fire into the condemned men for several minutes amid wild cheering. 
A staff sergeant emptied his magazine into the bodies and then turned to a Western reporter standing next to him. 
"They were bad men," he said. ''They made us suffer for years, killing people and steal­mg our money. They had no right to live." 


Living off-campus next year? Have we got a 

meetingfor rou! 
Representativesfrom the South 
BendPolice, N.D. Security, and 
the 0-C Councilwillbe there 
among others. 
' 

Wednesday • Apri123 • 7:OOpm 

mLaFortune Little Theatre 



. :···· • ...-.. , ·,I 
:,; . .·.... ·• . c . . • . ... • , . '!'~·· :-'; t·.. 
.. -:' ... .. ~-. ' 
..; . ! • ! 1·. r'J·i t ··~ •. :.~·,,.~ .. ~:, •
1· 
l .

' r . t. r . f ~ I
-. 
!'' ' .·• ~ ..-...... 
• ,,_,_., ... •.1 



Cities across the U.S. turn ut to celebrate 'Earth Day' 


The Observer 
Wednesday, April23, 1980 -p,.ge 3 

by The Associated Press 
Americans celebrated the lOth anniversary of Earth Day yesterday with sunrise serv­tces, bike rallies, kJte flying and demonstrations of ecolog­ical gizmos ranging from pedal-powered washing mach­tnes to a two-story toilet. 
More than 1,000 cities and towns held events to mark the day, but for the most part crowds were much smaller than the millions who turned out for the first Earth"Day 10 years ago. 
While their numbers were less, Americans who did par­take in Earth Day seemed to have a good time, enjoying beautiful weather in much of the country. 
Cars were banned from 10 blocks in New York City so Sixth Avenue could be turned into a street fair complete with music, animals and various exhibits urging conservation. fhe United Nations Orchestra playe.d Beethoven's Ninth Symphony and act~ess Ellen Burstyn gave a readmg on the environment. 
Activities began in Washing­' 
House votes 
approvalfor 

regtstratton 
WASHINGTON (AP) • The House of Representa­tives gave its approval yes­terday to President Carter's plan to register millions of young men for the draft this summer. 
The House passed a measure to supply $13.3 million to revitalize the dor­mant Sdective Service Sys­tem and dear the way for registration of some 4 mill­ion young men aged 19 and 20. 
House approval of the draft registration proposal came on a preliminary vote of 218-188 after House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill had predicte<l the measure would pass. The final vote, taken after consideration of several amendments, was 219-180. closer than White ton with a sunrise service at the Jefferson Memorial where the present-day environmental­ists read selections from such environmentalists of the past as Rachel<Carson, Henry David Thoreau and E.F. Schumacher, author of "Small is Beautiful." 
About 500 bicyclists accept­ed an invitation to bike to work and eat breakfast in Lafayette Park across from the White House. 
The assembled bureaucrats heard Dennis Christopher, who played a bicycle racer in the movie "Breaking Away," tell them the country would be a better place if more bureau­crats became "bikocrats." 
Transportation Secretary Neil Goldschmidt and Deputy Energy Secretary John Sawhill were photographed riding into the park. Sawhill biked in from nearby Georgetown, but Goldschmidt said because of a prior work committment he had come to work by car as usual and only rode the last few blqcks by bicycle. 
Goldschmidt, however, pledged to the crowd that his department would step up its efforts to increase the estimat­ed 470,000 Americans who now commute to work by bicycle to 1 million to 2 million in five years. · Washington was one of sev­eral cities that urged people to bike, hike or jog to work as pollution-free ways to solve the energy crists played a big part in thts year's activtties. 
The Energ:r Department 
provided a tour of solar homes 
10 the Washington art. , and 
Hartford, Conn., staged a par­
ade of "alternative energy 
vehicles'' from electric vans to 
peddle-driven cars. 
Several thousand people 
turned out on the Washington 
Mall to vtew Earth Day exhib­
its ranging from stills that can 
produce up to 25 gallons of 
fuel-grade alcohol an hour to a 
two-story model of a compost­
ing toilet. 
"Human waste must go 
somewhere. The alternative to 
polluting the water is fertilizing 
the earth," explatned Stuart 
Leidermann of Drury, Mo., as 
crowds lined up to go through 
the toilet, built 2lfz -times life­
SIZe. 
In Colorado, 1,000 trees and bushes were planted in Denver and the Rocky Mountain National Park was designated a "biosphere reserve.·' 

Due to the current good weather, Bookstore Basketball games have become popular afternoon events. [photo by]ohn MacorJ 
InWest Pacific 



Ferrycollides_with oil tanker 
MANILA, Philippines (AP) · "We're listing." The message An inter-island passenger­continued: "Abandon ship! cargo ferry with at least 890 Abandon ship! Abandon 
h. I" 
persons aboard sank after a s tp. collision with an oil ranker, but Lacson said nothing more more than 500 persons were was heard. 
rescued immediately, the The port captain said the Philippines News :\gency re­Don Juan carried 19 officers, ported Weclnesday. 69 crew and 802 passengers. 
PNH said 10 bodies were 
He said the 80 survivors taken aboard another tanker in were picked up by the Don the area ard several survivors were injured seriously. The official news agency said 
juan's sister ship Don julio. It was not known whether any foreigners were aboard. 
PNH said a Philippine air force plance was waiting at nearby Marinduque Island to 
bring  injured  survivors  to  
Manila.  Ir  also  said  the  
Philippine coast  guard  had  

mobtitzed tts vessels for search operations. 
the motor ship Don juan was 
rammed by the tanker ~---~-iiViiCiTYiiC6ios··---, 
Tac/ob<tn Cit), owned by the government's Philippine Na­I tionai Oil Co 
A PNOC spokesman told the I agency the tanker radioed that I a sister tanker, the Laoag City, 1 had picked up 506 survivors 
I

and the 10 conftrmed victims of the nighttime collision. I PNA agency satd the Don I 
juan, about 300 feet long and 1 •20,000 ~lbums & tapes in stock ·, 1,372 t :1s, sank at Maestre de I • Huge cut-out and special import selection open lOto 10.1 
7

Campo Island -130 miles I •ND.-SmCch&cksaccepteduptoJ20.00 1 dnys 1
southeast of Manila in te 
I over purchase amount open lOto 10 277-4242 I
Tablas Strait-while on a run tc 
.,.,..,._...,._'"iii___,.._________________,·----·
I V\O]nU.~.~tN"''"' • ~mllesnotthofcamoua • nexttoAI'ssuP.ei'IIIQtketl
Bacolad City 10 the central Philippines. 
It satd Gerardo Tsio, port captain i Bacolod for the ferry's owner , Negros Navtgation Co., reported the tanker struck the Don .Juan in the port side between two hatches at 10:30 
p.m. yesterday -9:30 a.m. EST. 
Daniel Lacson III, vice presi­dent ofNegros Navigation, told the agency one of its radio stations intercepted a radio message from the Don ] uan after the collision. He said radio op~rato~ Ernest~, <\lip~s shouted Takthd kam1 1 Ftll · ptoo-language words meanmg 
House oficials had expected. Although the House ap­
For applicants 

proved the registration plan, 1t would tak further con­gressi..,'1al actton to institute 
LSDAS revises system
an actual draft. 
''1dn Carter ~ plan, 

IJf·L ;-..( E:TON. N J. -·Law ,·ou·•g men born 1r. 1CJ6n and 
School af>i·'·cants are advised 

;r;t-'-v1P be retjuircd to 
rh:u ~h~-t"ight-week delav~ in reg · -,,r the draft at post 
f' ··: •. Law Scilool Data 

,,Hit :-, mss the country. 
\, -t.'f, ')h :...:,-rvtce (LSDAS) re-C · regtstratton re· 
AC

rv ed by the iate ~~. ... rarked anttdraft 
de ,.. a new computer prr : 
. :. n ·: been reduced w remm1sce!L .>t.. .t: 
rwr' ;·,. rhe level exper­than those of '·· · Viemam I ienced past at th1s time war ·, r:ar-;, h·J• ii"IF vote 
of v• .r. 

brouglrr no · ":~-{com , Because earlier delays the House gaiicries "here l siowed the decision process in· there appeared to be few I some law schools, the Law 
draft-age visitors watchi· if> • School Admission Council. the legislators. 
sponsor of the LSDAS, has The registration question 
recommended that the earliest now goes to the Senate 
deposit deadline date of law where Sen. Mark Hatfield, 
schools be extended from April R-Ore., has vowed to try to 
1, 1980, to May 1, 1980. filibuster it to death 
Individual law schools, how. The Senate has not 
ever, determine their own scheduled action on the pro· 
deadline dates. posal. 
As an additional measure, 

notthern Indiana's largest tecotd & tape selection and concert ticket headquatters 
CfJ QQ any regular album ot tape t1 • purchase with this coupon. 
Qff limltoneperperson •xpl,.ama!ll0,19&0 -
·he LSDA~ has also asked law -;chcols ro verifv that each ..;rhm1l ha~ all th~ informatton rrom the LSDAS necessarv to 
complete 1ts admJsswn clect­sions for the year. 




8:00P.M.
More than 275,000 LSDAS reporrs haw: been produced by the system so fare this year, 
SATURDAY,. APRIL 26 
according ro Educational Testing Servtce, which admin­isters the LSDAS for the Law 


NOTRE DAME ACC
School Admissi~n Council. 
The LSDAS was begun in 
Tickets on sale now 
1970· at the request of law 
.~1 seats reserved: $12.50, $10.00, $8.50. summarize information from 
schools. Its purpose is to 
Tickets available at ACC Box. Office 9 A.M.-5 P.M.; Robertson's, S. Bend & c;oHege transcripts. test scores 
Concord Malls; First Bank; St. Joe Bank; Elkhart Truth; All River City Record Stores, S. Bend & Michigan City; Suspended Chord, Elkhart; Record Company, Plymouth; Recordland, Benton Harbor; Butter11y Record, 
from the Law School Admission 
rest an? other biographical 
Wanaw.
mformatton used for evaluation by law school admission of­fices. 





The Observer 

Wednesday, April23, 1980 -page 4 
Elections Thursday 

SMC natnes Augustacandidates 
by Margie Brassil President are Martha 
the new officers and the hall 

SMC Executive Editor Hausmann and Alexis 
RA. 

Swedish. No nominations were receiv­
Student Government Presi­Therese Cafaro, Oudicial ed for Regina Hall in time for dent Kathleen Sweeney an­Commissioner), Kathleen the election on Thursday. A nounced the candidates for the Carbonaro. (Social Commis­special election will be held at Augusta Hall officers last sioner), and Katy Blankenship, a later date for Regina.night. While the other four (Secretary) are running for Sweeney explained that Reginadorms elect tickets of Presi­unoppo$'6d. has this problem nearly every
dent/Vice-president, Augusta According to Sweeney there year since it is primarily a elects their officers seperately, were no nominations for the freshman dorm. In past yearsand does not elect a Vice-pres­position of Treasurer. Instead the election has often been ident. applications will be accepted a delayed until fall giving the 
· The candidates running for and a treasurer chosen by freshmen a chance co run. 

Few students seemed aware ofthe fact that Monday was Veteran's Day, honon.ng former war heroes. [photo by john 
Macor) 

~NO  BENDIX THEATRE  
SMC THEATRE  CENTURY CENTER  
Phone  284-9111  

tfhe gentle, humorous story ofa day in the life ofa Welsh Village 
May 1,2,3 April 25,26 S4.00 (S3.00 8pm Stu./ Fac./ Staff) 

I I I I I I I 
I .'.' I 

Master Charae and Visa Accented 
..·.Pritnary 
(continuedfrom page 1) Anderson, the Illinois Republi­can, failed to have his name entered and his supporters were staging a low-key cam­paign for write-in votes. When Reagan went that route only 5 percent of the primary But Anderson apparently is on the way out of the GOP contest anyhow. He is expect­ed to declare his interest in pursuing an independent can­didacy, with an announcement possible late this week. Yes­terday Anderson withdrew from tonight's GOP debate in Houston. 
II 
r..,-:-..:::."·-·...;;..-...........-.............., ..;._;... . ---------.-·....... -·----..
. 

[continuedfrom page lj industry and turn it loose in the marketplace," Reagan said, echoing the theme which most appeals to his supporters, many of whom interrupted the candidate's speech every few sentences with fevered ap­plause.· · Reagan outlined the core of his candidacy in a speech he has repeated many times over the last half year: shore up defense, bolster the economy by freezing government hinng and cutting taxes, allow oil companies to "exploit" the oil and natural gas to be found in our own country and increase productivity in business. The leading Republican con­render slammed the present Social Security setup, saying that students today, when they reach age 65, will "find the cupboard bare.'' He said that . Congress created inflation by spending beyond their means and blasted Carter for excusing the one and a half percent rise in unemployment Carter ex­peers during the coming year's recesswn. Reagan fielded a few tough questions from the audience at the end of his prepared presentation. He explained his support for industry controlled disposal of nuclear waste pro­ducts by industry: government should regulate the disposal, but industry should carry it out. "Government's function 1s to protect us from each other," Reagan said. He told another questioner 
. .-.Reagan 
. 
he favors gtvmg arms to Pakistan because we have a treaty with them and, "we have done enough violating of treaties. I don't see anything wrong with providing arms to 
free  countries  who  want  to  
remain free. "  
He  admitted  to  another  
questioner  that  he  paid  no  
income  tax  in  the  State  of  
California  in  1970,  his  first  

term in office. "And I told my auditor not to let it happen again," he quipped. 
He also admttted that, al­though he favors the anti-abor­tion Hyde Amendment, during 



An Tostal Events 
Looking for Mr. Goodbar Clue 
A Mr. Goodbar candy wrapper has been hidden somewhere on the ND-SMC campus. Clues on its exact location shall appear in The Observer today through Friday. 
The first person to bring the wrapper to the Student Activities Office, 1st floor LaFortune will be the winner. You must have posses~ion. of the wrapper in order to win. 
The conte~t. ~ill end when the wrapper i~ ~eturned to the Student Acttvtttes Office. Everyone IS ehgtble except An Tostal committee member,; and The Observer staff. The prize is dinner for two at the Moonraker. 
TODAY'S MR. GOODBAR CLUES 
--Is it alumni or alumnus? 

--Check out this clue to cash in on Mr. Goodbar 

Faculty Carnival Discount Tickets 
Faculty discount tickets for An Tostal's Carnival will be available this week at the Notre Dame Student Union Ticket Office from noon to 4 p.m. and at the St. Mary's ticket office from 8:30a.m. to 4:30p.m. daily. 
While regular ticket prices are seventy-five cents each or five tickets for $3, discount tickets are available for five for $2. 
The discount tickers will be honored only Thursday night, April 24. 
Today 's Ewnts 

Irish Pub--Party down to the tunes of "Tar Bolten CC"'ili Band." starting at lO p.m. at Senior Bar. Beer special while it lasts. 
Carntva.l begins! 6 to midnight -ee there. 
Thursday's Events 

Spring is here and so are An Tostal DAISIES! $1.25/bunch 
in dining halls. Mon., Tues., Wed. 
Gentle Thursday Dunking Booth (SMC)--Campus celebrities 
dunked when you hit the target. Get 'em wet1 
Registration for An Tostal bike race to be held at 5:00 p.m. 
Thursday, April 24--Call Steve. at 1423. 
Be. at rhe picnic Thursday -at SMC and join in the World Rc:;coxd Breaking red lightlgreen light game. We need everyone! 
Get even by putting your enemies in Jail on Thursday. 25 
cents will put them in. 50 cents to get out' 
·Picnic and Games at SMC onThW.sday!! 
, Square Dance and Bonfire--Thursday night at 8. Feet ; stompin',_ tobaca ch~mt>in' fun! .... ··~-~·., . 
his first term in offic• he signed into law a bill which allowed 250,000 abortions. He said he inadvertently ''opened up a loophole'' in the bill which allowed a woman to get ·an abortion with a certificate that said she would suffer mentally from having a child. ''After that, I became more careful with words like ·may' 
and 'shall'" he said. 
Reagan saved an explanation of his most specific plans for the short press conference which followed the speech, and did not stray off hts general themes often. 

Loyola


iversityhicago 
Register Now For 
We offer you a wide array of summer session full-credit courses at either the Water Tower 
Campus, 820 North Michigan or the Lake Shore Campus. 6525 Nortl:l Sheridan. Here are 
the session dates .. 
FIRST SESSION May 19-June 27 
81ology. Chemistry & Physics May 27-June 26 AI: Other Offerrngs EVENING SESSION May 19-July 9 , 
SECOND SESSION June 30-August 8 81ology, Chem1stry & Physics June 30-July 31 ~II Other Offerrngs 
For more mformat1on complete coupon below and mat/ today! 


LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO I 
Summer 5essrons I 'l20 North Mrchrgan Avenue. Chrcago. lllrnors 60611 I TELEPHONE: 3121670-3011 I 
NAME I 
I
ADDRESS 
I 

CITY STATE ZIP 
I 

COLLEGE NOW ...TliENIIN6 ' . ' ' ' ' •' ' . ' I : " ~ ~ ~ 1 We ata;.n equal opportunity aducatO<Iemplayer, ·. . . . · · ·• 
, 
.... . ..... ., ., ..... .
~ ~ 
~--~---­

-----~------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, Apri123, 1980 -page 5 

Threatening sanctions 
Allies toughen stance on Iran 
by The Associated Press Foreign ministers of the currency reserves were strong European Common Markf't enough that it has "no need to 
America's European allies countries reached their deci­export oiL" _ . yesterday ordered immediate sion at the end of a two-day Iran's economic affatrs reduction in their diplomatic meeting in Luxembourg. In a minister, Reza Salimi, was staffs in Iran and said they statement, they said "decisive quoted as saying the Soviet 
would impose economic sanc­progress" toward release of Union had agreed to let Iran­tions unless ''decisive pro­the hostages would have to be ians use Russian roads if rhe 
gress" is made by mid-May made to stop the trade sane--United States should set a sea toward freeing the American tions. The phrase was not blockade. This was part of a hostages in Tehran. · Iran defined. draft agreement completed threatened to stop oil exports · Conference officials said if rec~ntly, Pars quoted him as to countries that join the U.S. the initial steps by the Com­sarmg. sanctions and took steps mon Market members fail to to move closer to the Soviet win the release of the hostages bloc. trade sanctions banning ex­
The European allies also ports of all materials except 

Brass group
ordered an arms embargo vital medical supplies would be against Iran immediately. activated in mid-May when the They said they would send foreign ministers are scheduled their ambassadors back to to meet a~ain in Milan; Italy. 

to present
Tehran to urge the Iranian In addiuon to economic sanc­government to free the 53 tions, the officials sid, the hostages held since Nov.4. Common Market would agree 
In the northwestern Iran not to buy Iranian oil selling province of Kurdistan, clashes above the current OPEC price. concert ~ in several cities reportedly left Iran now supplies about 5. 5 I 
I
six persons dead as a dispute percent of Common Market oil. over autonomy intensified. Japanese Foreign Minister The Notre Dame Brass En­Tehran Radio reported calm Saburo Ukita met individually semble and the Chapel Choir returned to Tehran University with several of the ministers in will present a concert in Sacred but another Iranian news Luxembourg on Monday and heart Church tonight at 8: 15 orga~ization reported five yesterday, and told reporters p.m. 
persons killed at m a clash at his countr.y would be inclined The 21-piece brass group will 
to follow the Common Market's
Gilan University. Classes re­present a prog~am highlighting sumed but reports listed as program. He said no definite the works ot 16th century many ~s 21 persons killed in dec1sion would be made until Venetian composer, Giovanni the latest outbreak of campus after he meets with President Gabrieli in an antiphonal struc­unrest. Carter in Washington next ture during the tirst part of the month. concert. They will be jomed in The Iranian oil minister, Ali the second half of the program
Akbar Moinfar, was quoted by by the Chapel Choir in other the official . news a8ency Pars works o Gabrieli and of modern as saying Iran w1ll bar oil wmposers.
ND Credit Union relocates exports to countries that im­The program under the ~ir<:c­
pose sanctions to try to pres­tion of the Rev. George Wlsktr­
by Kelli Flint surer. space, and the University sure his coun~ry into freeing chen, C.S.C. will be climaxed "The Union's lease expired would not expand our offices." the American hostages.
Senior StaffReporter by two massive works for brass 
this year, and the University The Credit Union currently Those countries, Pars quoted and organ--the "ProcessionalThe Notre Dame Credit did not renew it,'' Kelly said. occupies a portion of a building 
Moinfar as saying, "would be Entry'' by Ri(:hard Stauss and
Union will be moving, probably ''The University said that they that also houses maintenance blacklisted forever and would Widor's "Salvum Fac Populum
in early 1981, accordmg to need the space we occupy. shops, a garage, and a ware­never get Iran's oil." He was Tuum." There is no admission
Ruth Kelly, Credit Union trea-We've outgrown our current house. According to Donald quoted as saying Iran's foreign charge for the concert.Dedrick, Physical Plant direc­tor, there has been no decision
Energy outlook made on what the extra space r----------------------------, will be used for. ''The 25¢save -save lS¢ 


possibilities are open for dis­cussion," Dedrick said. save
CIAforesees oil struggle 
The new building for the · Credit Union will be located WASHINGTON (AP)-CIA Turner said that will force across from its current location director Stansfield Turner said Russian leaders to make "ex­on Douglass road. 
yesterday potf'ntially ''vicious tremely painful" economic, Kelly noted the advantagescompetition will develop over political and military choices to of the the new location. ''The the next decade for a diminish­keep the Soviet economy from new building will be larger,''ing world wide supply of oiL sharp decline, Turner said. 
Kelly said. "There will be In a rare public forecast of He said the Russians may more area for tellers. Lack of the international energy out­use diplomatic pressures or teller space has been one of look, Turner said the Soviet barter arrangements for wea­our major problems."
Union will begin importing oil pons. with M1ddle Eastern pro­
The new location will have over the next few years, put­ducers. ·drive-up facilities. Safety de­I
ting increased pressure on But he added that tougher 
Middle Eastern action, including "covert sub­
version,'' intimidation and

the United States and military action, "cannot be 
Western powers, Turner ruled out." 
''The cardinal issue is Combined with diminishing 
vicious the struggle for production from Middle Eas­
sup_plies will become." tern producers, Turner said the 
1f a major cutoff of smaller Soviet oil supply will 
Eastern oil to the add "another potentially desta-
United States was likely during bilizing ingredient to an area 
the 1980s, the CIA chif said it (the Middle East) which al­
"certainly can happen." ready has experienced wrench­
Turner testified before the ing political events in the past Senate Energy Committee, year ... '' which has been investigating "It also is likely that the 
strategic implications of a Soviets will be increasingly tightenting supply of oil. active in the diplomatic arena 
"We believe that world oil in the Middle East,'' Turner production is probably at or said, "holding out as a carrot near its peak and will decline the glimmer of a stable politi­through the 1980s," Turner cal atmosphere if the Gulf told committee members who states become more cooper­unsuccessfully encouraged him ative on oil and political mat­to speak more frankly about ters." the likelihood of international He said, "Moscow is already energy crises over the next ten makin~.t the point that Middle years. Eastern oil is not the exclusive 
Turner said before the end preserve of the West." of 1980, Soviet oil production Even without a war of crisis -11.7 million barrels daily last in the Middle East, Turner 
year-will pe~k. _ _ said, there will be a shortage of -As the Soviets begm lookmg oil on the world market during for new sources of supply, the 1980s. 

posit boxes will also be avail­
~~~ 

able in the new building. Construction on the new 
!lS¢save save 25¢
building is scheduled to begin next month. 
L-----------------------------l 
.. 

Ouradvertising sales staffis expanding and we want you. Liberal commissions 
andflexible hours available. 
call7471 for further information 
STARTNOW •.,ORNE 'FA£-Lr·· 
THE HUDDLE 
save 

Bl~ FRY ONLY 79¢ 
BIG DRINK with coupon 
EXPIRES 5/'l/80 
~w 
The Observer 

SMC presents play 
"An Indepencient Woman," an original play by Daniel A. Stein about the life of Anna Dickin·wn, the 19ch-century femini5t and abolitionist will be presented ar Saint Mary's Col­lege tonight at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Gen­eral ·admission is $3.50 and $2.50 for students. 
Dickinson, a nationally re­nowned orator, rallied support 
-for the anti-shvery cause and was also an actress and play­wright. The play, which follows Dickinson brom her exuberant, idealistic youth to her desperate and lonely old age, focuses on her struggle to be an indepen­dent woman in a time when independent women were frowned upon. 
College Republicans 
to meet 

The College Republicans will meet tonight at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater to elect officers for 1980-1981. All members are encouraged to attend. . 
PANGBORN -B.P. 
ANTOSTAL 
KICK-OFFPARTY 
Tonight at Giusseppes FREE BUS FROM MAIN 
_____________________________J
CIRCLE STARTING 10P·M· 
Wednesday, April 23, 1980 -page 6 

Maintenance men take advantage ofthe good weather to give a sec'urity hut a paint job. [photo by john Macor] 
Inflation rises through March 
WASHINGTON (AP)-J nfla­matchi_ng the January and Feb­tion surged at a near record 18 ruary mcreases, came even as percent annual rate for a third the ec-onomy was believed to straight month in March as have entered a recession. consumer prices advanced However, government and pri­sharply across a broad range of vate economists said the weak goods, from food to clothing, ening economy would not ease the government reported yes­inflationary pressures at the terday. consumer level for several 
The steep 1.4 percent rise in months. consumer prices during March, The latest rise in the Consu­
-

!11111111~111!1--------­
mer Price Index produced a record decline in the purchas­ing power of an average wage earner during the previous 12 months, bur it also brought a 
14.3 percent cost-of-living in­
crease  for  the  nation's  3 5  
million  Social  Security  recipi­ 
ents.  

March price increases for gasoline, other energy products and medical care were the smallest this year. At the same rime, inflation worsened in other areas, suggesting that sharp rises limited mamly to energy and interest rates were now spilling over into the rest of rhe economy. 
Food prices jumped 1 percent after two months of virtually no change. Housing costs, paced by continued surges in mort­gage interest rates, registered the biggest increase in at least 13 years. Price increases for clothing were th'e largest since at least 1947, and rhe rise in entertainment costs was the_ largest in nearly six years. 
R. Robert Russell, director of the president's Council on Wage and Price Stability, told a congressional committee that the inflation rare would contin­ue at about an 18 percent annual rare for another few months, bur that the Caner Administration is still looking for a "marked decline" in the rate to about 10 percent a year this summer. 
Russell added that he was disturbed by the rise in the "underlying" rate of inflation price rises for goods other than volatile items such as energy, interest rates and food. He said the underlying rate during the first three months of 1980 was running at 12.7 percent a year, and means the administration will have great difficulty in bringing inflation down even after the shock waves of soaring energy prices and interest rates are past. 
Democrats 


to hold
I

The propheticdoodle. I I 
I _election
Anyone who's planning on getting some-you'll need to work your way up the corporate place in this world after graduation is thinking ladder or vacation down the Nile. I 
The ND-Sl\.lC Youngabout the American Express® Card. ·And we've even made the American Democrats will hold elections
I

I After all, it's the most respected Card for Express Card easier to get. for officers tonight at 7:30p.m.
I in the LaFortune Ballroom.
I travel and entertainment any aspiring college If you're about to graduate and have a 
Any current club member may

I grad can carry. $10,000 job lined up (or a promise 
I submit his or her name in
1 With it you can pay for trips, car rentals, ofone), now's the time to apply for I nomination for President, Vice­President, Secretary and Trea­
shopping sprees. What you wear. The food the American Express Card. 
I suret. Any suggestions for
I you eat. Even where you sleep. It's about all And_turn a doodle into reality. 
Young Democrats activities
I 

during the 1980-1981 school 
_ _. . . . . The American Express Card. Don't.leave schoolwithout it~
L I year are welcome. 

.. 

------------------,
-
-
-

The Observer Wednesday, April23, 1980 -page 7 
Observer Election Analysis '80
Reagan sells himself at SMC 

by Tom jackman 

In his 15 minute talk, reception Reagan has received has this state wrapped up, look as rosy. Rea~an does not 
News Editor Reagan concentrated his ener­in Indiana this year. aided by the fact that neither top Jimmy Carter 10 anybody' s 
gies on attacking President Perhaps Reagan has reason Bush or John Anderson spent a preference polls, and even 
Who said this: "I was once Carter, but he dido' t do it in to be calmly confident. He minute campaigning here. though Carter's popularity is 
a Democrat myself." John the rabble-rousing, gesturing relinquished the front-runner's That might enable Reagan to destined to drop further be­
Connally? John Anderson? soap box style of the traditional spot only briefly, between the sweep up all 54 delegates, no tween now and November,
Actually, it was Ronald Reagan underdog challenger. Instead, Iowa caucuses and the New small feat, and concentrate his Reagan does not seem to be 
yesterday at Saint Mary's dur­speaking in a calmly confident Hampshire primary, and none attention on the Texas primary able to draw Democrats dissat­
Ing his brief speech in tone, he called (as usual) for of his fellow contenders have held the same day. There isfied with Carter or Kennedy.
O'Laughlin Auditonum. You reducing the size of federal been able to mount a prolong­Reagan hopes to hand Bush Reagan would definitely be 
wouldn't know it from listening government, reforming the ed challenge to him since then. the same crushing blow in his aided by a third party candi­
to the remainder of the speech He led George Bush, his
welfare rolls, cutting taxes, home state that he dealt to dacy ofJohn Anderson, but the 
though, which presented the clecontrolling the energy indus­closest challenger, by nearly Anderson in Illinois. Bush longer Anderson waits to de­
same Republican platitudes try, and increasing our national 300 delegates going into yes­knows he has to win in both clare (if he does), the more 
Reagan has been plugging defenses. He finishe d by terday's Pennsylvania primary. Pennsylvania and Texas to gain ballot deadlines he misses for 
throughout this campaign, and stating matter-of-factly, "We He has driven four of the other any sort of momentum heading independent candidates. 
somehow, he has been doing it have to be strong enough so six original candidates out of into the convention, otherwise President Carter's camp is 
better than anyone else. that no other nation will dare to the race, and received en­he won't have enough dele­looking forward to a duel with 
Reagan remains the most lift a hand against us.'' That dorsements from all of them, in gates to win a one-sided cre­Reagan rather than Bush,
popular Republican in this brought the crowd to its feet, addition to a slew of backings dentials fight. If that happens, Anderson or Howard Baker, 
staunchly GOP state, as he was from GOP bigwigs across the
shouting their approval. In look for another short, first­who Carter said he defeated 
in 1976 when he lost only three fact, the Associated Press country. ballot affair. One Carter
re­most. aide was 
of the state's 11 districts to Locally, Reagan probably
ported that it was the warmest Beyond that, things don't quoted as -remarking, gleefully, incumbent Gerald Ford. This that Reagan ''gives you so district (3rd) was one of the much ammunition" with his 
three which Reagan did not 
on therepeated gaffes cam­carry, thus his visit yesterday paign trail. The Democrats are in an attempt "to firm up his confident that even if the 
support here," as Greg Folley, 
Iranian hostage situation 
chairman of the ND-SMC Stu­approaches Day 365 and infla­dents for Reagan Committee, tion kicks up to 20 ·percent,put it. 
Reagan will be more ''defeat­Historically, Indiana has able" than the other majorbacked every Republican in the candidates. 
general election since Thomas A strong Vice-Presidential Dewey in 1948, with the excep­
running mate could help
. tion of Barry Goldwater in 1964 Reagan's chances, and Howard (but even he made it close). 
Baker looks to be in primeJimmy Carter came close to position after his endorsement beating Ford in '76, but Re­of Reagan last weekend. He 
publicans easily replaced 
would balance the ticket justDemocrats for the governor­enough, without being another ship and the one open Senate Richard Schweiker, and he seat. The Third DistriGt has rnight have the drawing power generally followed suit, al­to /ick up the independents
though Democrat. John an disgruntled Democrats or 
Brademas has a stranglehold 
disgruntled Republicans for on his Congressional seat. 
that matter, that Reagan seems Both of the remaining Repub­incapable of getting. Other­lican candidates had cam­wise, it seems as if Jimmypaigners parked in front of Carter's actions, and the na­
O'Laughlin yesterday, but 
tion's reactions especially, will neither rates an even chance of be the determining factor in displacing the Hous~ Majority the probable Carter-ReaganWhip. 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Managing Editor . . . . Mark Ru~r · Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the student!> of the 
Features Editor .............. Kate Farrell 
Editonals Edltol'... Mike Onufrak 
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. It does not necessanly 
Ft!atures Editor ............ Molly Woulfe
Senror Cop_r Editor.. Lynne Dalf'y reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reponed 
Photo Editor .................. John Macor
Neu·s Editor . . . . . .... Pam Degna1.
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board ..Com11_1entaries, opinions, and letters are th:e views Neu·.1· Editor . . . . . . Tom Jackman Ru.!>irten Afanager .. .......•Greg Hedges of their authors. Column space ts avatlable to all members of the commumty, and News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . John McGrath Advertising Manager .. Mike Holsinger the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC E.l\ecu~ive Editor .. Margie Brassll Production Manager .... Ann Monaghan 
-
-----------------~-----~--­
The Observer -Sports Wednesday, April23, 1980 -page 8 
Molarity by Michael Molinelli 

A GOOD F/GIITER
T).j£ FRIED CHICKEN... 
KIJOW5 "''H£N NoT TO eo · WHATS 111£ GREEN STUFFr 
i ... BOILED Pcff4TOES... 

INTO THE. RING 
Ill 
WHO CI\RES.~ I'LL T.4K£ A 
BOWL 

r 



by Garry Trudeau
~nesbury 
OH, N£V/3R MINIJ Y/3S, SIR, I 

Y/3AH, I 7DOK. I'M Ol/T
HIM. H&'S HcARP 51/PRJS& !TAU~ IHAVG. 




Siknta lifts Sonics 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Seattle centerJack Sikma, dominated Los Angeles' Kareem Abdul­) abbar mosr of the game, sank a free throw wirh two seconds remaining last night to give the SuperSonics a 108-107 victory over the Lakers in the. opening game of rhe National Basketball Association playoff series. 
Reserve guard Fred Brown uf the Sonics, deadly accurate with his floating bombs from the outside, -scored eight of the Sonics' nine points in the final three minutes to lead Seattle S('Oring with 34. The Sonics' Gus Williams added 28. 
Abdul-) abbar paced Los Angeles with 26 points. Earvin "Magic" Johnson had 19 and Jamaal Wilkes 18 points. 
With the score tied 107-107, there was S•)me confusion in the final seconds as Wilkes missed a shot trom the corner. Sikma got his fingertips on the re­bound momentarily, and Abdul-] abbar grabbed the ball and missed a lay-in as the buzzer sounded. But referee Earl Stt·)m ruled that Lakt·rs guard N )rm Nixon had fouled Sikma on the play, so the Searrle center was sent to the free throw line and the clock was reser at .~wo seconds . 
The Daily Crossword 

4/23/80

'r' 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

Master Mini-Warehouses 683-1959 
or 
683-6889 -at the state line on US 31 
-about 2.5 miles north of campus 

.. 

ACROSS  32  Put to the  
1  Procedure  blush  
5  Valise  36  Chichi  
9  "Thereby hangs_ ..  39  Glance furtively  
14  --cake  40  In a debat­ 
15  Kilkenny's  able way  
river  43  Source of  
16  Like ears  sugar  
17  Thanks­ 44  Rue-Paix  
18  Khayyam  45  Mame·s  
19  Tunneled  burden,  
20  Despicable- in song  
ness  46  Carrier fly  
23  Store  48  Of course·  
fodder  50  Calendar  
24  Dash  abbr.  
25  Medal  53  Dwell  
27  letters Edwin and  58  Existing at the same  
Evangeline  time  

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


63 Greek 26 Bear's den assembly 28 Girasoi place 29 Brain 
64 New US tissue coins 30 Tiller 
65 Hwys. 31 -terrier 66 Coruscate 32 Part of 67 Titled lady CPA: abbr. 68 Breathing 33 Fluffy 
sound scarves 69 Barks 34 -Boleyn 
shrilly 35 Editor's 70 Cupid term 71 Org. 37 Kin: abbr. 
38 Salver 

DOWN 41 Showplace 1 Gap for Soph­2 Pinochle ocles 
card stock 
42 "Ghosts.. 3 Linen writer collars 47 Cooks clams 4 Page of 49 Expunges music 51 Verse forr;n 5 Fabled 52 Navigation-
guardians al aid 6 Frisk 54 Snout of a 7 Infuriated swordfish ' 
,3 Hazard 55 Tittles 9 Colorless 56 Contests 
animal for two 10 Dupe 57 Ruhr city 11 Dugout 58 Wary: var. 12 Old English 59 Amorous 
court glance 13 Vortex 60 Seasonal 21 Golfer Lee song 22 --slippers 61 Gin 
(leguminous 62 San-, plant) Italy 
---~--------------------------~ 
Wanted: COUNTRY/ROCK JAM DIRECTOR 
Contact 

Bill Lawler 
3533or7757 
tn 
iDY friday-4/25 
1 

1 1 if interested .
1 
1· . . . . . . . · 
... , I It 1 1/•r'·'-'·-p'~·,•·;,.>•;·, . .tj'''-~·~ •o 
-------------------~----------~ ~-· . . ......!~....... ~··:-. -~_,;.,.-« ......,. 
I ................. --.-r•----·---.·-­
. . .Hunter 
[continued from page 12] 
"They're all pretty good," says the Grace Hall resident of the multi-Irish quarterback field. "It's just a matter of time until the coaches decide just who is best." 
Hunter is able to still com­pete in his favorite sport while at Notre Dame. The prep basketball star, who had per­sonal bests of 42 points, 20 rebounds and nine assists as a Crusader, ha:s found an outlet for his talent-Bookstore Basketball. Crable and Nick Vehr, another Cincinnati native, join Hunter and Scott and Curt Bai!ey to form The Assassins. The Assassins have cracked the elite "Sweet Six­teen" and continue to play today against Jayne Kennedy (7 p.m. behind the Bookstore). 
"You find that lots of foot­ball players are former basket­ball stars," says Hunter. "At some other school I might not have found so much leisure time to play basketball, and I Jove basketbalL" 
Basketball is not the only outlet Hunter seeks for person­al satisfaction. The 19-year-old lists. chess and fishing as two of his favorite pasttimes. 
"I like to spend time by myself Chess stimulates my m1nd," offers Hunter. "The brain itself percolates during class and football, I need time to relax. I find my release by playing chess." 
No matter what Hunter does, whether it be football, basket­ball or chess, he has one purpose in mind. 
"I try to overlook the pres­sure and realize that it is up to me to perform. That is the only thing I think about," insists Hunter. "I don't try to satisfy the crowds, but just please myself and God.'' 
To say the future of Notre Dame football lies in Tony Hunter's hands is an under­
statement, but the God-given ~alen_t he displays on the grid­
..• Iron 1s a crowd, ple~!jer~, _-.... . • 
The Observer -Sports Wednesday, Apri123, 1980 -page 9 
Wednesday  Friday  saturday  Sunday  Saturday  Friday  Wednesday  .. • Items  
[continued from page 12]  
Defending Chumps  Hell's Angels.  THE  ONE  THAT  GOT  AWAY--Glenn  River,  the  6-4  
Bookstore 9 5:30  Bookstore 9 • 6:15  speedster from Chicago's Proviso East High School who was tabbed by most scouts and recruiting services as the finest prep guard prospect in the country this year, finally signed  
Classified Nads  Strappamasquon  with Marquette. Rivers had indicated m January that his final three college choices were Marquette, DePaul and  
Notre Dame ...  There are stili some good prospects who are  
Bookstore 9 7:00  Bookstore 10 7:00  · as yet unsigned, and Digger Phelps may have one or two more prep stars to add to his current crop.  
Head Over Heels  Sean's Celia  TOO MUCH PASTA--It has been rumored Flowers and Bill Laimbeer, who preferred  that Bruce Italian pro  
Bookstore 10 7:00  Bookstore 10 4:45  basketball to the NBA, will make themselves available to the NBA next season. Flowers and Laimbeer, both 1979 graduates of Notre Dame who were chosen first and second  
Incredible Edibles  us  by the Cleveland Cavaliers in last year's NBA draft, opted for  
Jayne Kennedy Bookstore 9 7:00 Assassins  Behind ACC 5:30  Behind ACC 12noon  Behind ACC 4:30  Born to Run Bookstore 10 6:15 Theo and the Hose  the surer dollars in the European lea~ue rather than the less-assured road in the NBA. Indtcations around the Cavalier's office are that the Cleveland duo may no longer be interested and certainly will not come up with guaranteed contracts for the Irish center duo. OBJECTION SUSTAINED--The administration may not have to grant varsity status to every sport short of men's chess in order to comply with Tide IX. A U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Denver ruled that the NCAA can take the federal government to court over Title IX requirements in  
women's sports. That ruling overturned a  1978 decision by  
Bookstore 9 6:15  Bookstore 10 6:15  a Kansas City, Kan. federal judge that the NCAA did not have the proper legal authority to challenge the federal rules on behalf of its 707 member institutions. The case has been  
SMC Prix  Irish Guards  sent back to a district court in Kansas City  
SORRY--My apologies to Lyn Leone of  the Notre Dame  
Bookstore 9 4:45  Bookstore 10 '5:30  Club of St. ] oseph Valley whom I as "he" in last week's column.  inadvertantly referred to  
P. F7 and the Flyers  Much Later WEB  ADD END--There's a full sports week and weekend on tap, with the finals of Bookstore Basketball, three home baseball  
Bookstore Schedule  series, the soccer doubleheader and an all-important tennis match against Ohio State, nvt to mention a host of An Tostal Cli:tracurriculars, slated for the hopefully-sunny Notre Dame countryside.  

SMC ELECTIONS ·1980/1981 
JOHN DENVER 
Inscribes His Musical Signature
CLASS AND HALL OFF1CERS 
on a Great New Album. 
.Thursday, April24, 
AUTOGRAPH 
LeMansLobby 10:00-5:00 Madeleva Day Lounge 12:00-2:00 Cafeteria 5:00-6:00 
r-------------------~--------~
25¢save save 25¢ 
save 
THE HUDDLE 
save 

BIG FRY_ 79¢
& ONLY . 
BIG ORIN Kwith coupon 
ncn~tl 
I Album features John's brand­EXPIRES 5/2/80 
I 

new single "Autograph:' 
~~~ ~wl 
I 
""\5¢ I 

JOHN DENVER
I 25¢ save save ttl. 1
L-----------------------------J 
AUTOGRAPH 
TIPPECANOE PLACE RESTAU RANT IS NOW HIRING RESTAU RANT PERSONNEL 
full or part time:day and nightshifts 
This is my autcgraph 
Here m the scngs that I singhigh wages; excellent benefits 
Herem my cry and my laugh
. . training:dassroom and on the job 
Here in the love that .I bring To be always with ''ou 
cordial atmosphere 
FOOD WAITERS AND WAITRESSES BUSBOYSIBUSGIRLS 
And you always #1th me 
COCKTAIL WAITRESSES DISHWASHERS BROILERCOOKS HOSTESSES BARTENDERS PREP COOKS MAINTENANCf MEN 
APPLY IN PERSON BETWEEN II:00 am &6:00pm MONDAYTHRU S~.TURDAY 
$5.99each LP ·' 
AT EOE-M/F 
.. T1PPECJ.\NOE PLACE 
HAMMES NOTRE.DAME BOOKSTORE M~. ~~,_;.j-j.
.620_\~~.Washi~tonAveSouth Bend, Ind. 
.. ... . .J_._ 
I I I 

1 
l 
l 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
(+:+;.~ 


' I 
I The Observer Wednesday, April23, 1980 -page 10
I 
~ 
I ' 
' 
I' 
I 
~ 
' 
!
' 
I t ! 
~ 
I 
' 
I
' 
I I I 
I I 
I 
~ 
Sports Briefs _ _____, 
Irish drop doubleheader to WMU 
KALAMAZOO, Mich. -The Notre Dame baseball team dropped a doubleheader to Western Michigan yesterday, losing 9-8 in extra innings and 16-12 in the ~econd game. The Irish dropped to 16-8 whtle the Broncos cltmbed to 22-9. 
K-:n Scarpace's solo homer in the eighth inning of a scheduled seven innin~ game proved to be the difference in rhe f pener. Bryan Smith, 2-1, took th,e loss forNo.tre D~me. 
!r, the nightcap, Joe Ros(·nhagen s s1xth mnmg sm~le snapped a 12-12 tie and ignited a four.rur rally that earned Western Michigan to its 17th victory in 2(• games. 
Erratum 

No.re Dame tennis coach 'i"om Fallon, rhe subject of a two-part series in The Observe.·, is 63 Y' ·ars -lid, "not 64 as the story repoued. The Observer apologizes f,>r the et ror. 
-

Sailing club hosts Hawaii 
Th(· Notre Dame sailing cc:-am will host a triangular uurnament against the University of Hawaii ami Northwest­an this afternoon at 3 p.m. on St Joseph's Lake. 
Hdwaii is touring rhe mainland ~·or a series of tournaments and its tennis team also will compete at Notre Dame today. 
ND, SMC split in softball 
Notre Damt: and St. \-1ary's Sj)lit? doub1ebeader in softball yesrerda> afrernoon. ) a nice Crowe slarnmed a two-run hom<:r in the fourth inn in!? .o give roe Irish an 8-7 victory in the opener. Debbie Romo picked up the win while Mary Berh Ho~wski to<•k the loss. 
In the ni.;htcap, Peg Pie~chel went ci-.ree-for.four at the pl;,re, including two triples 2nd a single,:.o lead the Belles to a 7-1 triumph. Sr. Mary's colle..ted lO htts over the last two innings. Mary Bayless was the winning pitcher. 
Cubs squeak by Cards 
CHICAGO (AP) Barry Bobby Bonds, Ken Reitz and Foote's second homer of the Bob Forsch homered for Sr. game, a grand slam with two Louis in the Cards' 16-hit out in the ninth inning, pow­attack. The C~bs had 23 hits. ered the Chicago Cubs to includin~ five by Ivan DeJesus, comeback 16-12 victory over the who hir tor the cycle -a single, St. Louis Cardinals Tuesday. double, triple and home run. 
Foote, who had four hits and Rruce Sutter, 1-1, was credit­eight RBI, had tied the score in 
ed with the victory. The lossthe eighth inning with a solo wenr to Mark Littell, 0-1.
homer. 

Brownschidle named captain 
Hockey team signs three recruits 
by Bnan Beglane Sports Wn.ter 
Hockey scholarships-a spe­
cies which almost made the 
extinct list of the Notre Dame 
athletic department-are back 
although in fewer number this 
time around. The Irish will be 
losing four top notch players to 
graduation in May but will get 
back only two of those grants­
in-aid. 
Irish coach Lefty Smith and 
assistant Ric Schafer, who 
were sweating out a decision 
on their program's status not 
much more than a month ago, 
have announced that three 
freshman students athletes will 
be attending the University 
next year. Smith also an­
nounced that defenseman Jeff 
Brownschidle, a junior (rom 
East Amherst, N.Y., was 
elected ream caprain for next 
season, while Don Lucia and 
Dave Poulin will serve as 
alternate captains. The an­
nouncements came during the 
annual awards banquet, held 
last Thursday at the ACC 
Monogram Room. 
Two graduates of Fr. Henry Carr Secondary School in Toronto and one native of Port Huron, Mich., will be attend­ing the University next year. Adam Parsons. a center, and Joe Bowie, who ··can play anywht:re," according ro Schafer, will join Carr team­mares .John H iggtns and ·Bob McNamara on the Irish roster next year. Defenseman Tony Bonadio, a graduate of Port Huron Northern High School. also will enroll at Norrt: Dame next Fall. 
Parsons, who is 6-1, 180 pounds, scored 57 goals 'and registered 50 assists in 55 games chis season. ''Adam is a sniper," said Schafer. "He has an outstanding shot, with both accuracy and velocity. He'll vie strongly for a regular spot up front." 
Bowie scored 29 goals and added 57 assists this past season in 51 games. He stands 5-10, 185 pounds. "Joe can play anywhere,'' · noted Schafer. "He is an extremely versatile player. We'll proba­bly put him at a defensive spot.'' 
Bonadio played for rhe Sar· nia, Ont., Junior B ream (right across the river from Port Huron) and ts 5-9, 170 pounds. 


ANTOSTAL. PARTY TODAY 
at 
LEE'S 

3Drafts/ $1.00 3-7 OUTSIDE II I 
(INSIDE IFIT RAil\~ 
:I 
II 

RIB EATING CONTEST!' i' 
r 
I

1 GIVE \.,,~AYS&PRI: ..•~• ..1 • I 
I • 
Start AN TOST \Lor:t rh.:.. 1 ~ ·~ .. :. :·.•· i~'S!
1 
II

···1~1 =====~ .. 
He will press for the one vacated defensive spot. 

The Irish will lose two cen­ters, Tom Michalek and Ted Weltzin, right wing Greg Meredith and defenseman John Friedmann to graduation in May. That may not be much in numbers, but in terms of quality-especially on offense­there will be some tough skates to fill. 
"We feel we did well enough in recruiting to compete· next year," said Smith. "We should have some other players enrolling also who could help us our.'' 
The Irish will be competing with 18 scholarship /layers next season, compare to 20 for the ocher members of the Western Collegiate Hockey Association. The· league is meeting in Denver this week for its annual rap session, and high on the list of priority . topics are possible cutbacks in travel and scholarships. Smith served preliminary notice to 
by Kelly Sullivan Women 's Sports Editor 

The Norre Dame women's rennis ream suffered irs first two defeats of the spring Saturday when the Irish fell to Division I powers Indiana and Purdue by tdencicai9-0 scores. The quadrangular meet, which also included Indiana State, was not enttrely disappointing, as the netters posred a 7·2 victory over the Sycamore club. 
"The weekend was very good for rhe team,· remarked Coach .Jory Segal. .. We nee­ed some tough competition to bnng us back to reality after going undefeated in three marches. 
The number·one and num­ber-two doubles gave the Irish early momentum against Indiana Stare. Linda Hoyer and Carol Shukis fought their way to a 6-3, 6-4 Wln while teammates Tina Stephan and Cindv Schuster defeated their oppo~Jents m srraighr 6-3 sets. 
Schuster a junior transfer from "r 'v1ary's. had. a rough 
,-------------.., 
lI1JiA'. lliAlJJ. I 
I .. 
I 

1 l~ntu ~!In~u !! 
:1Jf1i )M}l(@Qt 
I 
:. iahiag ~eason!! 
I 
I ''itdttlfnur 
I I I Ptnnits wo 
I I 
_tlr. iJill <Jatt)! : 
I

L.-------------· 
the WCHA in the last week of March about the desire of Notre-Dame, Michigan, Michi­gan State and Michigan Tech to cut back on travel costs. Some sort of shakeup in the alignment of the WCHA is possible for the near future. 
ICE CHIPS: Meredith, the leading career goal scorer at Notre Dame with 103, won a host of awards for his record setting season... he was voted team MVP, shared the best defensive forward award with Bill Rothstein, won the Blue Line Club's Ed McGauley Award as outstanding senior, and shared the St. Joseph Valley Alumni club's student athlete award with Michalek ... Brownschidle was voted best defenseman for the second year in' ii row while Dan Collard earned most improved player honors... goalie Bob McNamara was named out­standing freshman... junior Kevin Humphreys and "C.W.' Smith shared the prestigious John Whitmer award. 
time at number-,me singles. She was soundly defeated 6-0, 6-0. Number-two player Hoyer won her march n-3, 6-4. Before this weekend, Hoyer, a fresh­man from Port Clinton, Ohio, had lo!'.t rwo matches. 

All other singles marches ended in Notre Dame's favor, with number-rhr~e player Shuk1s battling her way through a tiebraker in th< 'irst set to win 7-5, 6-2. Stepha,• in the fourth position. survived a second-set loss to win 6-2, 5-7, 6-4. 
Notre Dame's finish came as no surprise to Segal 

''I expected w do well against ISU. and I expected quite a challenge from Purdue and Indrana,'' said the first-­year coach. 
The 9-0 drubbing by Purdue was nor indicative of Notre Dame's performance a~ainst the Boilermakers. accordm~; to Segal The <;cores 1n most match•"" were d<'"~~ and s~gal 
p<:.tnwd our that  ·  .. as tht iasr.  
mar.  .  ·' a ver~  "t; day  
\\ •  •t bea.t  I'm har>p\  

rh,. , got a c.hance to pla; 
:nany matches in such a short rmie. \Ve needed ~he expenence of btH1g exhausteu and stilI having t•' play." 
The number (>r,e doubles ream. Shc~kis an<. Hoyer. are a new combination t~,r the Irish and Seg;,~.l felt tht· ciuo made a great progress las:. weekend 
"They're really heginning to Jell and work rogerher on the court. The quadrangular was a lesson for the whole team. Everyone learned something about their game in a highly competitive situation.'' 
Notre Dame takes a 4-2 record to the Angela Athletic Facility Sunday morning at 10 in a match with St. Mary's College. 
~---------______,1
1t1 
l 

The Observer -SportsBoard Wednesday ;April23, 1980 -page 11 1 I 
Bookstore 

Head over Heels over Jackson less 5 by
5 • 
Strappamasqoon ... over McNamara's Band by 9 Hill's Angels over Clinton Core's Cagers by 3 Much Later Wed· over Return to Sweetness by 12 
SMC ... over Boyz; by 4 

Irish Guard Ill over Knack, Whack ...by 
Classified Nads over Mutants... by 7 
Sean Cilia's ... over Mitch's ... by 2 

P.F. & The Flyers over This Is... by 4 Assassins over AI McGuire... by 4 Defending Chumps over Back for More 
by 14 Born to Run over Coneheads by 11 
Incredible Edibles over White Shadows 
by 13 Jayne Kennedy over Buzzards by 5 US over BUITS by 2 (OT) Theo ... over Morgan's... by 2 (OT) 
WOMEN'S DIVISION BOOKSTORE ROUND 11 

Total Class over The Beanhayeds by
14 

-Looney Roonies & co. over We Try Harder by inJ·ury forfeit 
Hot Stuff over Dunkin 1-Wish by 15 Ryan's Hope over Mary Jo Kopechne & The Drink 'n Drown Crew by 12
JD's Call Girls over the'Smucks by 11 BJ's Blowoffs over Dribbling Uvula's
by 8 Basic Five Hundred's over Title IX and 
the Tens by 3 

One Varsity Player and Four Girls Who Couldn't Make the Team over Title IX Compliance or Cosmetic Surgery by 
forfeit 
Interhall 
SOCCER Off-Campus 3, Farley 2 (OT)Breen-Phillips 1, Lewis 0 Holy Cross 2, Badin o 
FOOTBALL Regina 19, Augusta/Off-Campus 13 
NATHlN_,AL lEAGUE 
Tuesday's Games Pittsburgh 5, Montreal 3 Chicago 16, St. Louis 12 Philadelphia 14, New ·'ork 8 
' 

Houston 8, Cincinnati 0 Los Angeles 6, San Francisco 0 NATIONAL LEAGUE · Wednesday's Games Pittsburgh (Biyleven 0-1) at Montreal (Rogers 1-2)St. Louis (Martinez 0-1) at Chicago(Krukow 1-0)New York (Kobel o-o or Bomback 0-0) 
at Philadelphia (Christenson 1-0), (n) San Diego (Jones 1-1) at Atlanta
(Matula 1-0), (n)
Cincinnati (Leibrandt 1-1) at Houston 
(K. Forsch 2-0), (n) s F 1 (Wh't1 o2) L 
an ranc sco son -at os Angeles (Goltz 0-2), (n)
AMERICAN LEAGUE Tuesday's Games 
Chicago 2. Boston o Minnesota 8, California 1 
M.l k a Cl 1 d
'wau ee . eve an 4 
N Y k 5 B It· 
ew or • a tmore 4
Det ·t 2 T a o 


rot • 
I
Sezttle 5, Oakland 4 AMERICAN LEAGUE We.-lnesday's Games 

l 
Chicago (Dotson 1-1) at Boston (Stanley 1-0) California (Kison 0-2) at Minnesota (Felton 1-1) Cleveland (Paxton 0-0 or Spillner 0-1) at Milwaukee (Haas 1-1), (n) Baltimore (Palmer 2-0) at New York (Tiant 1-1), (n} 
· Hockey 
NO
0
NHl QUARTERFINAL R U Tuesday's Games 

New York Islanders 4, Boston 2, Islanders win series. 4-1
Montreal 6. Minnesota 2, Montreal leads series 3-2 
Philadelphia 3, New york Rangers 1,
4

Atlanta 3, San Diego 2, 10 innings ex s
--------------------------------------------------------------------~~----~K~a~n~sa~s~C~ity7~To~r~on~t~o~2_______P_h_il_ad_e_IP_h_ia_w_i_ns__se_n_es__-_1______~ 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m.. two days prior 
to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept 
classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classifieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail.
Classifieds · 
Off campus housing. 6 bedrooms etc. 

291-1405. 1977 Camara, silver 28,000 miles, automatic on console, small v-8 gets 18 mpg city, stereo S-track, $3,600. 1978 
Notices 
Professional Typing Service. Any size LeMans, maroon, 20,000 miles, auto­job, accurate, prompt, dependable. 
Wanted 
matic small v-6 gets 21 mpg city,Term• papers, Reports, Manuscripts. 

AM-FM stereo front and rear speakersBarron Services, 1408 Elwood, South 

Wanted: one graduation ticket. Call $3200. Both are in excellent condition.
Bend 289-7949. 
Doug 287-2793. Call Lewis at 1234 weekdays, or 288-2961 evenings and weekends. 
Need ride to Minnesota after finals.

Will do typing. Neat, accurate. Call ---------------­
Can leave May B. Will share usual. For Sale: 1978 F'irebird Formula,
287-5162. Thank you. 
No luggage 8268. Silver exterior with appearance pac­kage. Red interior. Loaded. ExcellentTyping Plus: Term papers. theses, 
Wanted: Ride to Twin Cities after condition. Call 41-4721 (am) anddissertations. Light editing, ghost • commencement Will share expenses. 277-5338 (pm).
writing. Literary search, bibliog­
Call Andy 3174.

raphies. genealogies. Job resume 1978 Camara, light blue, automatic,service. Sliding rate scale based on 
Wanted: riders to Cantpn, Oh. Leave straight 6 cylinders, very good gaslead time. Special discounts on full Fri, May 2, afternoon. Return Sunday mileage, stereo 8 track. Excellentcontracts for theses and dissertations. 
noon or evening. Call Joe 3598. condition only $3,500. Call 277-2462.
Aardvark Automatic Solutions/P .0. Box 1204/46624/phone 219-289-6753. 
Wanted: Ride to Yellowstone Park, '77 Camara, silver w/ black interior, Wy. by May 26 for summer job. Will small V-8 engine. AM-FM cassette, air share expenses. Call Scott 1738 or conditioning. $3000 or best offer. Call 1697. Mickey at 7838.
Lost&Found 
Need a ride to RUSH concert in Fort
Lost: A pair of glasses.' If found, Wayne, April 28. 3463.
please call Kathy 4101. 
Need aroommate for Summer Camr1us 
Tickets
Lost: Timex gold face and trim watch 
View. Call Greg 3223.

with a brown wristband. Call 3234. Ask for Bob I need one measlay graduation ticKet.
Need ride to I.U. (Bloomington, IN) for 
Desperate II Mick 8212 !! !.

Little 500. Can leave anytime on
Lost: Blue Alpine backpack with 
Friday. Call Ed 1820.

important notebooks and tests. Lost Desperate! 1 need tickets for gradua­before break. Reward! Call 3324. tion. Lou \171.
Need ride to Daytona Beach, Florida for Summer. Call Damian at 1197
Lost: pair of silver-wire glasses in a 
please.

green case labled MOM. In Business ouilding. Call Kathy 6793. 
Wanted: Yearbook-any recent non-Notre Dame yearbook. Call Tim 
Personals

Lost: wallet in Washingto Hall or 
288-6748.

area.. Saturday evening. 1.0. in­cluded. Reward. Call 8936. 
Urgent: Wanted-one bassist and Paulette-· Sorry ab11ut Friday. Next 
one lead vocalist, male or female, for
Lost: N.D. class ring. LMD '81. If time, I'II oe soJer. 
rock band (Stones, Zep, Rush, Beatles) Out-ai-line 'Jrun~ardfound, call Matt 1751. 
To start immediately. Call Dan or Jack 
at 1766 Now II Found: a watch in Hayes-Healy onFound: at Beaux Arts Ball, wristwatch Tuesday. Call 287-0864 to identify.
and silver necklace. tie. and bandana. 
Overseas Jobs-Summer/year rou)ld.
Contact Archil. office to identify 
Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields. $500-$1.200 monthly. Since when did you start using my Found: Girls watch on North Quad. Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free name to sign personals? Slander is 
between 8-12. 1-5. Ryan Per Vertmoes, · 
information. Write IJC, Box 52-14, serious business, I declare war!
Call Brendan at 8951. 
Corona Del Mar. Cal. 92625. Lost: pair of grasses in brown case. 
VJte 

Summer Resident Camp Staff needed. SCANLON-TOOMEY
Please call Mike 1069. 
Mid-June to early August. All lvlcCandles; Hall Coun~il positions open: Counselors, Water­Lost: suitcase in between the baseball 
field and the tennis courts. Lost on front, Nurse. Cook. Contact: Girl Mr. Bill [Patt] is back in the running
Scouts of Singing Sands, Inc., 1635
Saturday after the baseball game. Any for UMOC!
North Ironwood Dr, South Bend, In
iofo call Keith 1745. 
46635 or call 219-277-0900. Sign-up for the Boston Club Bus Trip Lost: N0 fencing jacket at 7:00 [leaving 11:00 p.m. May 12] will be showing of Fiddler on the Roof this Thursday, April 24th. Bring your 
Saturday night. 
check or mone) to the Lafortune lobby
For Sale 

Found: NO soccer jacket at same time. between 6:00-7:00 pm. Cost will be Call Kelly 1472. 
$90 [unless bus doesn't fill up]. This 

'72 Plymouth Valient. Automatic, 4 
fare Includes transportation home and 

----~­
------=-;;;;...--....;;...-door, AM radio, 6 cylinder. Depend­
back to school in the fall. Questions,

able, $600 or best offer. Call 283-6588 
call Steve Coffey at 1423 or Nat Walsh or 289-6643. 
at 1192.

For Rent 
For Sale: Alvarez 6 string acoustic. Peggy,
furnished four bedroom house, couple 
of blocks from campus. For next Call 6369. Oh, my 111 N.D. coed. This one's for school year. 277-3604 or 288-0955. you. Happy 3rd anniversary. We've 
For Sale: 1 pair Phoenix Spkrs. 
seen so much together, but I guess it's $75 Chris 8978.

Work for me, live for free this time we take a look on our own. 
summer. 277-3604 or 288-0955. Although the 35Yh and 36th have had 
For Sale: Tape deck. Sharp 1157 with 
some wrinkles I'm sure Wll can iron Furnished houses or rooms for rent things out. Let's make It anight at the
exclusive "Search" also Vox Jaguar Portable Electronic Organ. Call 3127.
this summer, close to campus, very 95th. reasonable. 277-3604 or 288-0955. Love always,
1960 Telephone answering service and 
Dave 
record maker. $25 Dave 3637.

House for rent, _near Notre Dame, 2 bedrooms, aluminum siding, garage. Congratulations Clark! 
For Sale: Receiver, 35 watts per
References and security deposist. Call "You are Awesome"
channel. 2 1/2 year warranty. Call 
love, Colleen & Terese

233-9088. 
Greg 3678. Off campus housing-6 bedrooms Attention Central New Yorkers! 
1979 Trans Am-GM executive car
(with locks). Rented separately. free Anyone interested in having bag­
$6900. Call 282-2179. 

gage trucked to Roch.-Syr. area? For Available for Summer and Fall. more info, call6888 or 8673 after 10:30laundry and kitchen ..Superior rated. 
For Sale: Gleim CPA Review. Vols 1 
p.m. Deadline: Sunday 4/27.

291-1405. 
. and 2, 6th edition. No marks. $25.00.
----------------Call Steve 4392 evenings.
Several houses for rent. Summer only. Need ride East to Cleveland or PA 
Reasonable rates, will negotiate )like. May 2. Jim 277-3275. depending on the number of students. Call Greg Cress after 7:00pm 287-5361 For Sale: 2 tix for John Denver. 
Tony, Padded seats. Best offer. Chris 8102. 
How a-bout Niles to Buchanan? 

Ugly Duckling Rent-A-Car. From Cathy 41-4430. Lize $7.95 a day and 7 cents a mile. 255-2323. 

~ ·• ·.-., i 

Speaking of dogs, Darby 0 'Gill says Dan Hussey is so ugly It's ruff to look at him. 
Hussey is UMOC 

Til'h (Lenny), 
W~at color are you going to paint tile nursery? I'm starling to knit the t aby booti.es. 
M. 

O'Cieary, 
This is probably your last per~onal so enjoy it. Thanks for everyth,ng. You're a super guy. 
Love. ex-Meoto 

Budd, 
How about lunch at our favorite hangout. We can't wait 'till we're 40 to meet at the Pick for breakfast! 
Miss my roommate. Waldo 

Attention '60's dressed duck luvers: 
Applications for Island use permits now being considered. Request more info. through the personals. 
Director: Federal Duck Protection Auth. and the Napalm Lover (He was the one in the tree.) 

McCandless! GugleHulley McCandless! 
. 

Holy Cross Hall SMC Please vote Pres-Debbie Mardoian Vice-Pres-Nancy Sonego 
Carnival!! Rides, fun, and excitement! Wednesday-Sunday, near Stepan Center. 
Yocious Is Atrocious. 
Applications for Homecoming Chair­man, Nazz Business Director, are available in the Student Union office. 
Yocious is Atrocious 

1980 "Winter Olympic" Marlboro Ranchcoats for sale. An amazing buy­$22.00! Mens, Womens sizes. Call 283-1430, 288-5891 evenings. 
McCandless! Gugle Hulley McCandless! 
Holy Cross Hall-SMC Please Vote Pres. -Debbie Mardoian Vice-Pres. -Nancy Sonego 
Yocious is Atrocious 

Your Senior Year can be free of worries. Vote: Beckman Krauss Welsh. Murray 
. To the soap crowd that never falls to congregate in my room every after­noon: I am getti.ng disgusted with the gross misrepresentations of reality that I am subjected to every day. I don't care if Jack ever finds out who killed Mary or If Scotty ever really dies! Those soaps are wharping your minds! 
Love, K.H. 

P.S. I h"~a terome dies!! 
Pete, l'vL ·lie, 
I alway ... .. es, here is your Hapk ~ ·lay person­al. 
Love, Kate 

Found: Pair of glasses in Engr. Bldg. Tan case. Call Jim 3881. 
RED Army mobilizes Wednesday night. 
Stephanie, 
You arE an angel, a goddess, a' beautiful as thll morning sun ... witl· blond hair that g.istens under the lighl lf the moon and c. smile that make; the grayest day gay. 
And as beautif~l as you are outside. you are all the mo;e beautiful inside.. with a warmth and a sense (•f humor that none can match. 
Though we dated each other les& that I liked, I will always have \)st part of my heart to you. 
Brand Naw-Never been used Rac­quetball racquets for sale--now only $20.00. Call Randy 1146. 
Dan R. Charles D. 
Thanks for your time, patience love, and friendsnip. I never wouiC' have made it without you. Next year's squad is the greatest. 
Clark 

Kathy C. 
Thanks for the box of candy. That was a "Sweet" thought (no pun intended really!) 
Love, MOM 

Rosemary & John-Thanks for the drink--1 needed that! Love, 
c 

Wednesday is Grace's Stalingrad Red Army will strike. 
Vote 

SCANLON-TOOMEY HELP MAKE MCCANDLESS THE PLACE TO LIVE! 
All those going with the Boston Club to the Red Sox-White Sox game [April 28]: The bus will leave from the center for continuing education [CCE] circle at 4:30 p.m. [sharp!] Questions call Jim 1528. 
Penguin, Poems are read. 
Essays are, ·oo. But letters ar~ best When I get one from you. 
Love, Stuck >n Siberia 
P.S. Write ll'le' I need contact from the real wr•-ld! 
Tom P. I k ow where you're ticklish! "Bunny" 
SMC Class of '81 Elect Hill O'brien Stoll Boyle 
Tomorrow!! 
------·---------­
To the Bear and Wemhoff's fiancee: Re: Dinner Saturday 
Thank you kindly for ruining a nifty dinner iri order to see a dumb opera. Signals is crossed. 
Who will SMC rur. for UMOC? Will sbe be a dark horse-or a plow horse? 
1967 VW B!Jg for Sale, excellent condition, 31 mpg. $1 ,250 or best offer. Call Mark 289-1262. 
On Your Day Call, Have a nice onel We're glad you're spending It with us. Jolin McGrath 
Ceil, HAPPY SECRETARIES DAY!! We couldn't do it without you. Mike 
Patti, 
Good luck on your presentation today. Hope everything will be "just darling." 
Joe, Thanks for the aquatic and bovine delight, Your Well-fed Friends 
~--------------------------------~------------------------~--------------~--­
Snorts 
Hunter combines 
religion and athletics at l'~D 
by Beth Ht~f/man Sports Editor 

Cincinnati Moeller--the breeding ground for future college football standouts. Notre Dame has absorbed irs share of Moeller greats in recent years: Tim Koegel, Bob Crable, Dave Condeni, Jay Case and Tony Hunter. 
Hunter, now Irish wide re­ceiver, is perhaps the greatest all-round athlete to graduate from the southwest Ohio powerhouse. The 6-5, 210­pound Hunter captained three Crusaders' teams his senior year (football, basketball, and track), a first in Moeller history. 
An All-America choice in· football, all-state and city in the three sports one might wonder how Hunter came to cho,Jse a football career-es­pt'cially when his favorite sport rs basketball. 
Hunter credits his decisiuil to God, and his religious devotion w Gerry Faust, Moeller's head football coach. 
_ "He's (Faust) a 'true Christ­ian' and he's taught me to realize that God has given me a s~ecial talent. I should be t ankful and I should use this 
.... 
,. 


Tony f-!.unter was the first three-sport captain at Cmcmnatt s Moeller H.S. [Observer phutu file] 
Wednesday, April23, 1980 -page 12 
Chumps roll 
Sweet 16 arrives 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Wn'ter 
.The Sweet Sixteen ... 
That's where the nimh annual Bookstore Basketball tournament finds itself as the teams gear up for the octafinal rounds this afternoon. Yesterday's games-featured plenty of guts, a little too much blood, and enough excitement to keep even the most rabid Ironman fan appeased. · 
The tournament's No. 1 seed, Defending Chumps, continued to roll. Yesterday's victims were Back for More and the final in that game was 21-7. Bill Hanzlik and Dan Short led all scorers with six apiece while Tom "Old Guy" Sudkamp knocked in five of nine shots. Mark Cassella had three for the losers. 
In perhaps the most exciting game of the day, Head over Heels upset theJacksonless Five, 21-16. Tim Healy hit seven of 14 shots while Pat Kramer played the big man-role to perfection and contributed six for the winners. Tim Koegel hit seven-ofl4 and Tim Tripp six-of-13 for the losers. · 
Strappamasquon and the Combat Wombats dumped McNa­mara s Band, 21-12. Greg Knafelc hit 11-of-16 for the Wombats while teammate Pete Holohan added six. Jim McFadden had six for the losers. · 
Much Later W.E.B., that unknown but powerful band ofinterhall players from Howard Hall, should make their prescence felt before the tournament ends on Sunday. Yesterday, keyed by the seven-of-11 shooting of Andy Hicks, W.E.B. rolled over Return to Sweetness, 21-9. Kevin Dix and Bob Keenahan had five each for 
W.E.B. while Joe Congeni had five for the losers. 
~n an overtime battle US defeated BUITS, 22-20. Bill Myler displayed the ~rue spirit of I_ronf!lan b~sketball, diving for loose ball~ and/1-;tymg defen~e With !J~tle regard for his health. Bob Whae ha SIX for the wtnners while Ian Grey's six were tops for BUITS.. 
NOTES: Anyone interested in the slam-dunk contest, scheduled to be held after the finals on Sunday, contact Rob Simari (8622) between 9 and 11 tonight. 
Hey there . .. little helpplease I 
Some peopk would walk a the water f2ilecf. So he dove in mile for a Camel. And then head first, along wit~ some there's Terry Coonan, a junior clothes and flowers ne was from El Segundo, Cali( carrying for the ·confirmation, 
It seems a loose ball from a to retrieve the now floating 
Bookstore game between the sphere. Classified Na ds and the What sparked such a noble Mutants on the Lvons court feat? rolled across the 'road...and 
"I thought I wuld get it wouldn't stop. That is, until before it went in," Coonan Coonan, who was walking by said. "bur I misjudged it. The on his way to a Confirmation at tie and flowers got .a little bit the_ Log Chapel, sprang. into soggy." 
acrwn. 
Terry chased the ball to the The Nads went on to win the lake's <>hore, and a last ditch game. and Terry? Well, he effort to stop it from going into gets our vote for MVP. 

Hunter. "My relationship with God is the most important thing to me." 
Hav1'ng dect·ded that h'IS t I h' r b 11
1.
a enrs n care mg a root a 

rr_al_e_n_r_r_o_it_s_m_a_x_im_u_m_:,~·_·....:.s_a.:...y.:..s__w:..:..:.er:..:e:....:..:rh.:.:o:..::s::::e.....:d::.:e:.::s:..::t::in::e;;:d:,_t::_::o~ru~l:.::.e....!h~i2..s 
I 
by Bill M~rquard
I 
rish tems Basketball foes 
BASKETBAU DRIBBLE--Notre Dame has added rwo more hardwood powerhouses to irs schedule for next season. The Irish will "host" Ralph Sampson and his Virginia teammates at Chitago's ill-famed Horizon Arena on Sunday, February 22 , the first march-up in aregular home-and-home series between -the Irish and Cavaliers. Sampson, the 7-4 Sports Illustrated coverboy, spurned a lucn... tive offer from the Boswn Celtics to go hardship and opted for another year of college. 
Virginia's home games in the brand new rivalry will probably be played in the Capital Centre. Both schools wantf'd ro play this game on their homt" schedule in a larger facility. anticiparmg strong fan and national interest . 
The lmh will travel back to the Horizon (if the roof holds <JUt) les~ rhan two weeks lart'r to face DePaul in the Blue Demon·-; new horne arena. That March 7 showdown may be 'lose!}' watched by rhc NCA,\ Selewnn Commmee. since NCA,\ tournament bids go out the following afternoon. 
!'he or her stgnificanr addi{lnn to the lnsh schedule occurs on December '1. when Bobby Kmght and the Indiana Hoosters invade rhe ACC to renew a lung-standing intrastate tivalrv. The Hoosiers, who lead the all-time series with Notre. Damt' 28-1 '), handed the Irish their first loss of the 1977-}H season by a 67-66' counr in rhe last game played bt'tween the two schools. 
The above dates are still listed as tentative. pending the official announcement of the 1980-81 schedule. One more i!ppllnt'tH remains rObe penuled in ro the otherwise complete cage slate 
OVEREXPOSED--With Sunday afternoon games schedukd agarnsr UCLA and Virginta. and a Saturday afternoon match-up with DePaul on tap 10 go along with the already f;?Otenr Irish slate. it would seem that Notre Dame is headed 
~or  another  banner  basketball  season  on  NBC  Sports.  
Although  no  official  announcements  have  been  made,  
network  officials  must  be  drooling  over  the  classic  
confrontations  on  the  Irish  slate  next  vear.  NBC  could  

probably save some promotional money' by changing their network symbol from a peacock to a leprechaun. 
RECRUITING HARVEST--It may be spring, but a majority of rhe crop of rop high school basketball prospects have already been collected into tbeir respective collegiate bins. The Irish inkeCI swin~man Tom Sluby and center Joe Kleine to national letters of tntent on April 9, the first day that such letters could be autographed according to NCA A ; ~ • The 6-4 Sluby a~eraged 23._8 points and 15 rebc, ',,. v~r' .lie for Gonzaga H1gh School tn Washrngton, D.C .,_ ..~ 1a!' 1amed the player of the year in the Washington!\._ '~rea. Kleine, a 6-11 pivot, averaged 27.1 points while leadin~ Slater High School to the runnerup position in the Missouri state tournament. Both Sluby and Kleine were Parade Magazine All-American picks, and both had signed institutional letters of intent with Notre Dame earlier in the season. 
(continued on page 9] 

future, Hunter decided on Notre Dame. 
"Moeller is very similar to Notre Dame ·m a religious atmosphere," says rhe man who holds a Notre Dame record for most yards per catch (25.6). 
Another factor in Hunter's decision was distance; his sec ond choice (USC) was just too far away from home. 
One publicized factor, that Hunter denies was influential in choosing Notre Dame, was the presence of former-Moeller quarterback Tlm Koegel. Hunter only played half a season on the Crusader varsity squad his sophomore year (Koegel's senior year). The Cincinnati pair now practice fr:quently together, but Hunter claims that he has no real preference as to who tosses the ball his way. 
[~·ontlnued on page 8] 

Irish practice heats up 
By Craig Chval ~ports Wn'ter 

From one extreme to anoth­er. .. Notre Dame's football team, which had been hamper­ed by cold and rain for much of the early portion of its spring drills, worked out in 90-degree temperatures Tuesday on Car­rier Field ... the unseasonably warm temperatures tooK their toll on a few players, but the Irish coaching staff once again was pleased with the session, lauding the players for main­raining their intensity despite the increasing monotony of the drills. 
Spring football '80 
The team continued to work on various game situations, and the offense held the upper hand Tuesday, moving the ball well on the ground on a variety of first-and-ten, second.and-eight and· third-and-short challenges ... the defense wasn't quite up its previous performances, es­peCially up front, where the Irish are temporarily short­handed due to a bunch of mmor ailments. 
Dave Berry, a sophomore strong safety from Waterloo. Iowa. joined the casualty list Monday when he broke the small bone in his arm ... he' II be in a cast for-six to seven weeks ... defensive end John Hankerd (wrist), offensive tackle Mike Shiner (back) and fullback Rodney Morris(shoul­der) are all nursmg minor injuries, but should be back in aciton soon. 
With little more than one week remaining before the May 3 Blue-Gold game in Notre Dame Stadium, the Irish have 
yet  to  schedule  a  full-sca.k  
scrimmage ... in  previous  
springs,  head coach  Dan  De­ 

vme had held several skir­mishes leading up to the intra­squad classic ... the team will 
have some type of scrimmage Saturday on Cartier Field, but the coaching staff still hasn't determined if it will be a full-blown affair ... Devine and his staff will give the players Thursday off, unless Wednes­day's drills are cancelled by inclement weather. 





