
Volleyball -Pages 10-11
' ' ' 
• 
·.. ,· 
'(j 


by Mary Leavitt Staffreporter 
A quiet campaign ended last night as Kathleen Sweeney, Joan McCarthy and Nini Stoll were announced as the victo­rious ticket in the Saint Mary's Student Body election by Mary 1\:fullaney, election commis­siOner. 
The Sweeney ticket ran in the election against the ticket of Suzanne Schreiber, Bernadette Calarco and Marie Liz Hackel. 
"I was very happy with the way this election was run," Mullaney said. "The only thing . that disappointed me was the poor turnout of student voters. Only 56 percent of the campus voted this year as compared to 73 percent last year," she commented. Mullaney attribut­ed the lack of voter turnout to the short campaign period. 
''The candidates did not have as much time to campaign this year as they did last year,'' Mullaney explained. "I don't think the students were alto¥e­ther aware of the elections.' 
In addition, Mullaney believed that a lack of controversy in this year's elections could have hurt the turnout. 
''Neither ticket was really fighting this year," Mullaney 
SMCelection 

Sweeney ticket wins 
Laura Larimore Senior StaffReporter 
Corrine Wroblewski, Saint Jo­se_ph County Registrar, defend­ed her position today against accusations of hindering stu­said. "They each kind of went their own ways. Last year the tickets were quite comparable and therefore more controver­sial,'' she ob~erved. 

Despite the lack of turnout, Sweeney was quite pleased with her victory. "I am very excited over the results," she said. "It was a most cordial campaign, and the other ticket really had class. I hope we'll be able to work together for the betterment of Saint Mary's," Sweeney commented. 
Schreiber, Calarco, and Hac­kel were optimistic about their ticket's loss. "We're glad we ran," Schrieber said. "There is no animosity between us. We wish them luck and we'll help them in any way we can,'' she concluded. 


Denies charges 



St. Joe County Registrar defends position 
U.S. appeals to World Court for decision on hostages 
THE HAGUE, Netherlands (AP) The U.S. government, appealing for an urgent World Court decision on the Tehran hostages, warned yesterday that Iran might hold the 50 Americans indefinitely and thereby undermine world peace. 
''The si~nals which are now comin~ out of Iran suggest that 
the detent1on of the hostages may conunue' indefinitely,'' Roberts 
B. Owens, State Department legal adviser, told the International Court of Justice. 
''No one in this courtroom has any way of knowing whether the Ayatollah Khomeini · will continue to hold the hostages in captivity for a month or for a year or for a decade." 
Owen did not elaborate on what the "signals" might be, but he apparently was referring to the disagreements and indecision among Iranian leaders about whether and when the hostages might be freed. 
Winding up for the United States in a case first put .before the court Nov. 29, Owen said :-enuous U.S. hopes for a qmck release of the hostages were dashed in early Marcil when a !J .J;l. investigative commission visiting Tehran was frustrated m us mediation mission. 
He said the court, main judicial arm of the United Nations, is the most promising hope for the ultimate release of the hostages and he called for a swtft final judegment. 

"If it becomes clear that a country like Iran can seize diplomatic agents and hold them hostage for indefinite periods of time in order to coerce desired political action, it can only lead to a complete--unraveling of the fabric of peaceful international relations," Owen said. 
Owen's presentation to the 15-member court ended three days ofpublic sess~ons called to ~ear ~he U.S. c~se in d~tail. The court will now constder the case m pnvate and tssue a Judgement, but it will probably take several wee~s. -. . • . ­
Signs grew in Tehran, meanwhile, of defimuve ~elays m any action to free the hostages, who have spent 138 days m the hands of Moslem militants holding th~ !J.S. Embassy. . . 
Revolutionary leader Kohmet~t says the new Irama.n P~rlta­ment must decide the host~ges fate, but ~ore countm~ m last Friday's first round of parliamentary electtons was gomg more slowly than anticipated. 
dent voter registration made yesterday in The Observer by Paul Lewis. 
"We're not trying to discou­rage student registration,'' Wroblewski stated. Iris Hile, the E.epublican co-chairman (a­long with Wroblewski) of the 10-member bipartisan Voter Registration Board, also affirm­ed the actions of the registra­tion office. The office is under the jurisdiction of the Saint 
Joseph County Clerk. In response to the charge that she denied students deputies and registration forms, Wro­blewski said the accusation was unsubstantiated. ''We give deputies to definite programs, such as the League of Women Voters and cemiin high schools," Wroblewski commented. She implied a lack of preparation in Lewis' ap­proach. "I felt he was beli­gerent, unlike the others (Sean Heffernan and Greg Ansel­mi)," she added. Wroblewski and HiJe reP.orted they have together distnbuted 
500 forms to Notre Dame students, including 200 given today to the College Republi­cans. Lewis denied this, giving 270 as the total amount. 

T0 Lewis' initial request for over 1,000 forms, Wroblewski replied, ''We have never given out 1,000 forms to anyone at Notre Dame during my eight years in office. '' 
She explained that the law requires the Registrar to keep a stnct account of all forms. ''Giving out so many makes the job very difficult, especially accounting for the ones never turned in," she said. 
Wroblewski gave this req_ui­site of the state as justification for the turn-one-in, ~et-o11e­back method of obtaimng new forms. 
She also cited previous voting records. In 1978, 92 of a community of 2,100 voted; in November, 1979, 583 voted. This community consists of all on-campus Notre Dame stu­dents and affiliated personnel, ~ho vote in Portage Precinct One. At present, there are approximately 900 registered voters in the precinct. 
A complic;uion to the registra­tion record-keeping is the re­quirement of a purge. Anyone who has not voted in an election in a period of 24 months previous to the preceding June 1 is automatically stricken from the record, Wroblewski ex­plained. 
Both Wroblewski and Hile said they would be more than willing to aid students in regis­tration if they came downtown. They defined their position as one of registration, not recruit­mem. 
"We feel those who take the time to come down and register will also be the ones to vote,'' she said. 
Wroblewski also clarified regi­stration deadlines. Registration may be conducted by deputies until midnight Saturday, with forms required to be submitted by 4 p.m. Monday. The fmal date for voter registration at the registration office is April 7 for the May 6 primary. 


Budgetplan may cut mail services 
WASHINGTON (AP) -House budget-writers yesterday re­commended an end to Saturday mail deliveries and federal law enforcement grants as part of their drive to balance the 1981 federal budget. 
The House Budget Committee urged those actions despite sign of new. strain in the coahuon p~e~sin~ for approval of $15.9 bdhon m ·spending cu~s and a $1.4 billion surplus m fiscal 1981, which starts Oct. 1. 
The $15.9 billion in reduc­tions, generally supported by the congressional leadership and the White House, were proposed Wednesday by the commtttee chairman, Rep. Ro­bert N. Giaimo·, D-Conn. 
Although President Caner cal­led last week for a balanced budget, the president has yet to submit a revised version of his 1981 spending plan. The bud­get he proposed in January called for a S 15.8 billion deficit. 

Overall, Giaimo's budget pro­posal for fiscal 1981 calls for spending $612.4 billion, re­venues of $613.8 billion and a surplus of $ L4 billion. 
The committee still faces tough votes on controversial proposals to eliminate ·the Sl.7 bilhon state share of revenue sharing and to cut $1 billion from Carter's proposed level of defense spending. 
[continued on page 7J 



Ne\Vs in brief 
Friday, March 21, 1980-page 2 
Deadly bacteria 
N.O. W. 'scharges frustrate frisky lawyers 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. (AP) -The National Organization for Women has launched an investigation of male Allen County 1ttorneys whose female clients claimed they solicited sex in exchange for reducing or eliminatin8 legal fees. The alleged practice apparently has been gomg on in several law offices and amounts to solicitation for prostitution, said Kate Love-Jacobson, President of the NOW chapter in Fort Wayne. "We know it's happened enough that now we're 8oing to launch a full-scale 1nvestigation," she said. The mvestigation began about a week ago, she said, based on 15 complamts from women during the past several months. NOW hopes the inquiry will result in prosecution for solicitation wherever the evidence supports that action, Love-) acobson said. "We don't want revenge, though," she sai~, ·"We just want it stopped." 



Ca•nP-_u_s-------~ 
Friday, March 21­
11:15 a.m. LECTIJRE SERIES "the integration of successive glances," dr. julian hochberg, columbia u. HAGGAR HALL AUD. 
1-3 EXHIBITION ceramics by patricia brophy ISIS GALLERY 
4 pm INAUGURAL LECTURE "political philosophy today," dr. fred dallmayr CCE AUD. 
4:30pm LECTURE "Photosomes and the reconstitution of oxygen, evolutin of photosynthesis," dr. douglas winger, u. of cmn. 123 NIEUWLAND 
5:15 MASS AND DINNER BULLA SHED 
7 pm BENEDICTION AND STATIONS OF THE CROSS ALUMNI CHAPEL 
7,9,11 pm MOVIE "funny girl" CARROLL HALL SMC $1 
7 ,9, 11 pm MOVIE "monty python and the holy grail" ENGR. AUD. 
7:30 pm COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL STEPAN CENTER 
. ,
8 pm TRAVEL FILM ''as an arust sees spatn O'LAUGHLIN AUD. SMC 
Saturday, March 22 
9 am VOLLEYBALL TOURNAMENT blue wave-o'hanlon's invitational ANGELA ATHLETIC FACILITY 
9:15am TRIP TO SR. MARITA'S alpha phi omega service fraternity 
12:30 pm COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL STEPAN CENTER 
7 ,9, 11 pm MOVIE funny girl" CARROLL HALL SMC $1 7,9, 11 pm MOVIE "hang the drum slowly" engr. aud. 
7:30 pm COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL STEPAN CENTER 

Sunday, March 23 
10 am SAILING LESSONS sponsored by nd sailing club BOAT HOUSE 
1,3 pm MOVIE "where the boys are" CARROLL HALL SMC $1 
2 pm FILM "neeyaa" LIB. AUD. 
3 pm CONCERT by southold dance O'LAUGHLIN AUD. 
7,9,11 pm MOVIE "bang the drum slowly" ENGR. AUD. 
7 pm MEETH\G an tostal staff LAFORTUNE UTILE THEATRE 
7:30 pm SPEAKER "era: a catholic perspective" dr. maureen feedler LIB. AUD. 
8 pm TALK "living a life of prayer" james finley CRYPT OF SACRED HEART CHURCH 


Soviets deny germ warfare 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Soviet Union confirmed to U.S. Em­bassy officials yesterday that there was an outbreak of deadly anthrax last April in the Ural Mountain city of Sverdlovsk, but denied the epidemic was the result of a germ warfare accident, sources said. 
They . said the Soviet reply came m response to a _query made by top embassy officials Monday. The sources, who asked not to be named, said the State Department instructed the embassy Saturday to ask the Foreign Ministry to explain mounting evidence that there had been an epidemic and it was the result of a biological warfare accident. 
Top embassy officials were called to the Foreign Ministry yesterday morning to receive the Soviet rej 'v, which acknow­ledged the antnrax outbreak in Sverdlovsk, an important indus­trid center 1,000 miles east of Moscow, according to the sour­ces. Anthrax, a potentially fatal disease for cattle and humans, is caused by bacteria. 
A Foreign Ministry official also took the highly unusual 
Committee urges applications 
The University Committee on Education for Justice is current­ly nominating members for the 1980-81 academic year. Any student of faculty member in­
terested  in  working  with  the  
Committee  is  encouraged  to  
apply.  

r-The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Margaret Kruse · Asst. Night Editor: Mike Monk, Ma~ Kasper
Layout Sta : Lois Kennedy, Joel Anna le the Cannibal (except on Fridays during Lent), Neil "Maybe now Ryan and Cindy are satis­fied" O'Brien News Editor: Mike Shields Editon·at Layout: Ann Gales Features Layout: Molly ''I 
think  he  got  the  visa! ''  
Woulfe  
Sports Layout:  Chris  
Needles  

Typists: Carol Cornwall, CindyJones, Carol Shuback, Pat Shaugnessy EMT's: Paul Selavko, Liz "In The Clutch" Huber Proofreader: Dan Ryan, Paul Hurley "the cube" Ad Design: Mike Supplement Layout: Tom Schuster Photographer: Tim Mc­Keogh Guest Appearances: John ''The end is near--1 can feel it'' McGrath 
TIM Observer [USPS B I2DJ Is publislltd Monday ltlreugll Frtdly a­capt during uam and vautill perildl. The Observer Is publisllld by the students tf Nutn o-_. Slid Mlfy's C...... Sltblcri$1tiJ '1 lillY M purdlaed .. SZO per ,.ar IS• ,_ ..,.tlfllram The ODsefVer. P:O. ba 
0. Nltll b1m1, llldilu 41551. S..S diu postiOI paid, Ntlrl 011111, •• dillll .... 
The Observer Is 1 ,....... If 1111 Asllciltld Prlls. All ......... rigllts 11"1 ••rwd. 
step yesterday afternoon of telephoning Western corres­pondents to "resolutely reject" attempts to question Soviet good faith concerning the five­year-old international conven­tion banning production and use of bacteriological warfare agents. 
In Washington, State Depart­ment spokesman David Pas­sage said the Soviet explanation was ''a satisfactory initial re­sponse'' and the United States would study it carefully. 
Department officials, speaking privately, said the department had discerned the anthrax out­break from a series of rumors and eyewitness accounts reach­ing the West from emigres. 
On Wednesday, the State Department said it believed a Soviet biological warfare acci­dent left "a substantial number of fatalities, perhaps running into the hundreds." 
While the Foreign Ministry was privately telling American diplomats the outbreak had occurred, the official Tass news agency denied reports of an accident at a bacteriological warfare plant in Sverdlovsk. 
5:15p.m. Saturday 9:00a.m. Sunday 10:30 a.m. Sunday 12:15 p.m. Sunday 7:15p.m. Vespers  Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. Rev. Austin Fleming Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. P.ev. William Toohey, C.S.C. Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C.  
campusminiStry  
 
LEGAL  


SUNDAY MASSES AT SACRED HEART CHURCH 
BASEMEtn, NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL L-EGAL ~10 & DEFENDER ASSOCIATION ROOM 8·12 283·7795 
11 am· 2pm <M · Fl other times by appointment 
WE HANDLf ALL 1=1NANCIALLY QUALIFIED STUDE:NTS & STAFF 



BREAK TIME DIRECT O'HARE $15 EXPRESS $15 
from NOTRE DAME CIRCLE 
depart· 4pm arrive 5:30pm

March27 
• 1 
lOam 11:30 am -lpm 2:30 pm 

March28 

INOIANA MU I U~ aus· 
~.w~~~~~~~~~~-~-~----~-~~~~~~ ·1~···~·~~,~~···'•rl ~~ 6~ 
,, ~, .•. ,,,.~,·····~··t••~·,,,,,, 
' ' • \ t \ \ • \ \ t ' f • t \ ' t 0 " \ • \ t \ I I .. " I • ~ I t 1 ' , \ I \ I · ' \ I I • \ I t t \ \ \ \ \ \ I o • 

......----------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Friday, March 21, 1980-page 3 

• 


Over Pakistan border 
Soviets pursue Afghan rebels 
BAJA WOOR, Pakistan (AP) ­Afghan rebels who brought their families across the htgh mountain border in the Hindu Kush range yesterday to shelter in Pakistan said they were pursued all the way by Soviet helicopter gunships. 
''More than half the people in my village were killed,'' said Shakir Brasul, a young, beard­ed Pathan warrior from Kota­pur village in Afghanistan's Konar province on the other side of the mountain. 
He got across the border with a group of about 60 survivors, including women and children of all ages. "It was so cold coming over the mountains that four children in our group died of exposure," Brasul said. 
As he spoke the sound of heavy guns and explosions rumbled through the mountains that divide Pakistan from Ko­nar, where Soviet and Afghan government troops launched a large-scale anti-rebel operation 20 days earlier. 
His group was the latest to reach the Khazana refugee 
ParadeselectsMurphy 
A Notre Dame senior is one of a group of campus leaders across the nation selected to accompany out­standing newspaper carriers on a tour of Yugoslavia and Greece. Martin Murphy of Napervillw, Ill. was named by Parade Magazine as a chaperone for the April 15­28 tri{>. 
MaJoring in accounting and economics in the Col­lege ofBusiness Administra­tion Murphy has been a leader in the Neighborhood Study Help Program, a vo­lunteer program involving more than 300 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who tutor grade school stu­dents in 20 centers in the South Bend School Corpora­tion. Murphy has served as a tutor, director ofa tutoring center and currently is tran­sportation coordinator for the program. 
Murphy said he consi­dered volunteer work to be his most rewarding Notre Dame activity and hts parti­cipation in the annual Mardi Gras program was prompted by the distribution of pro­ceeds to several area chari­ties. 
Inaugural ceremonies to­day wdl honor Fred R. Dallmayr, the first holder of the Packey J. Dee Chair in Government and Interna­tional Studies. Events will include a public lecture by the new Dee Professor, en­titled ''Political Philosophy Today," to begin at 4 p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education auditorium. 
Although this is his first year in residence at Notre Dame, Dallmayr was named to the endowed professor­ship in September 1978. From July 1978 through June $979, he held a fellow­ship for independent study and reasearch from the Na­tional Endowment for the Humanities and was a re­search fellow at Nuffield College, Oxford University, during the fall term. 
Dallmayr is a political theorist whose major inter­ests include contemporarv political theory, contemporary European political thought, theory of social science, and modern political thought. 
''Professor Dallmayr is both a fine scholar and a creative, subtle thinker," Dr. Peri Arnold, chairman of the Department of Govern­ment and International Studies, said. ''His work in 20th century European poJj. tical and social philosophy will greatly strengthen our already strong field of politi­cal theory. Furthermore, he reinvigorates the tradition of eminent European scholars in the department. He not only holds a Munich docto­rate as well as an American ~h.D., but he also maintains close ties with the European scholarly community.'' 
A native of Germany who received U.S. citizenship in 1962, Dallmayr received a Doctor of Law degree from the University of Munich in 1955, an M.A. from South­ern Illinois University in 1956. 
camp, only 10 days old but already cramped because 5,000 refugees a day stream in from Konar. 
Brasul said it was a four-day climb through the snow-cover­ed ridges to the safety of the border a couple of miles from the refugee camp. 
The rebels said the Soviet and Afghan troops used Mig fighter bombers, artillery and tanks against the mountain villa8es and later dropped parachutists to mop up resistance. 
The rebels were forced to abandon their villages and took to the mountains, where they continued fighting until their ammuntion ran out, Brasul said. "Russian helicopters flew overhead constantly trying to locate us and kill us, but most of the time we managed to hide amidst the boulders on the mountain slopes and avoid de­tection.'' 
The Russian troops have been in Afghanistan since late De­cember, when they backed a government coup and remained to help the government pn down the rebellion by these devoutly Moslem, anti-commu­nist tribesmen. 
The camp of 5oo small green tents, allocated one per family, is pitched in neat rows in a field next to a small river. There are more than 600 families here but many more are ;scattered in nearby villages in the Bajawour Valley or live out in the open l:>e<;ause there are not enough tents. 

New doubts arise in hostage situation 
(AP)-Iran's attempt to elect a 
new Parliament bogged down 
yesterday in slow vote-counting 
3:nd com.Plaints of improprie­
ties, casttng new doubt on just 
when the revolutionary govern­
ment will be ready to make a 
decision on freeing the U.S. 
Embassy p.ostages. 
Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, in a Persian new year broadcast to the nation, chided those who have accused some groups of fraud in last Friday's voting. Such loud complaining before the rest of the world is anti­Islamic, he said. 
In Washington, U.N. Secre­tary-General Kurt Waldheim, apparently concerned over in­creasing public anger among 
U.S. politicians, told reporters rhat any American attempt to end the crisis by military force would ''create an explosion'' in the entire Middle East. 
Republican Sen. Richard Lu­gar of Indiana, in a statement Wednesday endorsed by Senate Republican Leader Howard Ba­ker, called on the Carter admi­nistration to prepare for a naval blockade of Iran and for mining of its ports. 
Revolutionary leader Khomei­ni has said the new 2 70-seat Parliament, or Majlis, must decide whether and when to 
release the hostages, who spent their 138th day in captivity yesterday. Iranian officials have predicted this decision could not be made before mid-May. But by yesterday it wa5 dear that Lht vote counting from last Friday's first round of parlia­mentary elections was going more slowly than anticipated. Final results mal not be known until early Apri , election offi­cials said, virtually ensuring that the second round of voting will be delayed a week or more beyond the planned date of April 4. This in turn would probably mean a further post­ponement of a deci5.ion on the hostages. The second round of voting will consist of runoffs in dis­tricts where no candidate won a majority last Friday. Allegations of fraud are fur­ther complicating the electoral process. Most of the (omplaints are aimed at the clergy-domi­nated Islamic Republican Party, which leads in the early el~ction results. The . ruling Revolutionary Councd has named a commis­sion to inv~sti~ate the allega­tions, and .President Abolhas­san Bani-Sadr met yesterday with Khome1ni to discuss them. 



DILLON HALL SAYS: 
CONGRATULATIONS TO THE DIRTBALL TRACKTEAM· **************************************************** 
1980 CAMPUS CHAMPIONS 
*************************************************** ALSO TO THE BIG RED HOCKEY TEAM FORA SUPER SEASON AND CAMPUS RUNNER-UP· 
' 
I ·l 
1 
l 
• 

4 
t 
so 
The Observer Friday, March 21, 1980-page 4 
Haight-Ashbury 
15 years can make a difference 
I 
~ 
\ 
i 
l I 
l 
' 
,. 
' 
J 
! l 
I 

SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Fif­teen years ago, a street sign marked the crossroads of young America. 
Orphaned by the death of a beloved president, cast into the army by what they felt was an unjust war, given material wealth without moral guide­lines for using it, a new generation fell apart and came together at the corner at Haight and Ash bury. 
Fifteen years ago. It was a time of flower children, the Jefferson Airplane and the Greatful Dead. Of marijuana and LSD. Of communal hving, long hair and outrageous cloth­ing that once and for all divorced the young from the old. 
It was, Paul Kantner recalls, a time of innocence -''a never­never land. ' ' 
''It was an experimental time," says Kantner, who helped found the Jefferson Airplane back then and is the
MASS 
only original member of the band, now called the Jefferson 
followed by Starship. "We trusted the drugs wesupper 
took, almost offered ourselves as guinea pigs for a whole new


every_ 
way of dealing with each other. " Joan Didion was less kind. In
FRIDAY 
"Slouching Towards Bethle­hem,'' she called what was
at the 
goin~ on here in the mid '60s 
"soCial hemorrhaging." 
''San Francisco was where the missing children were gather­ing and calling themselves 'hippies,'" she wrote, and she meant the Haight-Ashbury. 
But now the magic is gone, along with the posters that once convened the walls of Haight Street into a minature Peking, announcing free con­certs in nearby Golden Gate Park and promoting the slo-
EARN OVER $730 A MONTH DURING YOUR SENIOR YEAR. 
Interested in math, physics or engineering? Then you could earn as much as $730 a month, for the rest of your senior year, in the Navy's NUPOC-Collegiate Program (NUPOC) is short for Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate). 
If you qualify, then upon graduation you'll get 16 weeks of Officer Candidate School, and an additional year of advanced technical educational. Education that would cost thousands in civilian life but in the Navy we pay you. And you'll receive a $3,000 cash bonus at the end of your training year. 
It isn't easy. But those who make it fmd themselves in one of the most elite engineering training programs anywhere. With unequalled hands-on responsibility and a $24,000 salary in four years. 
For more details, simply see your Navy Officer Programs Representative, when he is on campus 
Or call (collect) 312-657-2171. 
gans of the left calling for one world, one people. 
Today, Hatght-Ashbury is like many neighborhoods in the city, sporting a variety of shops and restaurants, noble Victo­rians being renovated, and a sizable gay community bring­ing in new business. 
Few signs remain of the time when the anti-war movement flourished and Greatful Dead leader Jerry Garcia poured fonh the first psychedelic chords from his black and gold Gibson. 
"In the beginnin~, it was a very pleasa.nt thmg," says Alex Holcombe, whose jewelry store has operated on the corner of Haight and Ashbury since 1932. 
''But it degenerated into a very heavy drug culture. I never wem out of business, but we· did lose 19 stores on this street. 
Dr. David Smith, founder and medical director of the Haight­Ashbury Free Clinic, has seen it all. 
"You saw the beginnings of the counterculture and psyche­delic scene as early as 1964," he says. "In '65 and '66 it accelerated, and in '67 it peaked, the primary things being the rock groups and the expanded use of LSD." 
The clinic opened in 1967, operating 24 hours a day, says Smith, and treating as many as 200 patients a day, mostly for bad LSD trips and short term outpatient care. 
Today, the clinic has evolved and expanded to include five sections, including detoxifica­tion for heroin addicts and a women's center, as well as a volunteer training branch and a research department. 
By 1970, the Haight-Ashbury was in the throes of a major heroin epidemic. The inno­cence that had heralded the new age had given way to crime and violence. The rock stars had long since packed up and moved to more pleasant surroundings in the suburbs. 
"It turned into a jungle," remembers Kantner, who blames that on the police. ''They allowed it to happen almost gleefully. Sort of to let the flower children face the tough world.'' 
The Haight looked, according to Smith, "like a bombed out ghetto.'' 
''There was so much crime and violence that only the most hardy of businessmen could hang in there. '' 
But hang in there they did, and the neighborhor d made a comeback. 
"I would say that 1971 and 1972 was when there were
. . . 
some maJor commumty orgam­
zation successes and the neigh­
borhood started getting to­
gether,'' says Smith. ''The 
community started taking con­
troJ and believing that they 
could handle it through rehabi­
litation rather then ..the urban 
redevopment plans that were 
advocated by city hall. 
''As soon as things started improving, there was a big influx of different populations, including the gay community,'' says Smtth. ''They came in and bought a lot of the houses and renovated them, and they o­pened a lot of shops and worked to improve the area." 
Renovation brought new pro­blems, however. Real estate prices skyrocketed, with some rents jumping as much as 300 percent when apartment hou­ses were sold. Neighborhood organizations fear that rede­velopment will result in a street decorated with tourist shops, driving land prices up further. 
There still are people on the street who look like character actors out of the original play, although Kantner says he doesn't feel a lot of life in the Haight. But Smith and others who work and live there are haPI?Y with the way things are turmng out. 
''The old idealism still sur­vives, but it's tempered with reality,'' said Smith, adding that as far as he is concerned, the nei~hborhood has gone from bemg one of the most dangerous in the city to one of the safest. 0 Perhaps the most clear-cut proof of change in the Haight, however, is supplied by Kant­ner. He stills goes back every so often, but when he does it's not to play free concerts or take drugs. He goes to the Mac­Donald's on the end of Haight Street and buys his daughter a cheeseburger. 
Gasprices soar overseas 
(AP) -The next time you Israeli schoolteacher Shlomo pump $1.201-a-gallon gasoline Eidaw said a 53 percent in­mto your car -and think crease in gasoline prices over longin~ly back to last year the past year has meant when It was half as much -"there's no way I can afford to consider the J?OCi' motorists in drive my car to work instead of other countnes. You could takin~ the bus'' for his daily have it worse. 24-mtle round-trip commute. 
You could be drivin~ in Bul­"We take the car only if we 
garia, where the pnce of a h~ve a lo~ of shopping of for gallon of regular gasoline dou­tnps, whtch are very infre­bled to $4.32 last year, or in quent these days,'' Eidan said. Italy, where a gallon of high­I~raeli gasoline prices have test would set you back $3.02, nsen to $2.60 a gallon from up 71 cents in a year. $1.70 a year ago. 
An Associated Press world­In Denmark, bus use in wide survey, conducted in late ~etropolitan CopenhagenJa!luary, found that. ga~oline JUmped 10 percent as the price pnces m most countnes JUmp­of a gallon of gasoline climbed ed as the world price of crude to $2.55 from$1.45 a year ago. oil doubled to nearly $30 a Even m oil-rich Britain gaso­barrel over the past year. line now costs $2.34 a gallon, 
In Hong Kong, gasoline up from $1.64 a year ago. climbed to $1.72 from $1.12 , A survey by the Greater prompting one wealthy factory ~ndon Council said the price 
! 
owner to forsake his luxury nse apparently has spurred a Mercedes-Benz and Continen­drop m the number of cars tal cars for a compact Honda. 
[continued Oft page 1.4)
' 
' . 
I 

The Observer Friday, March 21, 1980-page 5 



Notre Dame married couples encounter manydifficulties 
Editor's Note: This is the secondpart ofa two-part article about married students at Notre Dame. The topic is the present social and living conditions that exist for this stlent minority. 
Liz and Jim Niehaus are married undergraduates at No­tre Dame. They account for two of the 39 wedded undergradu­ates. Two-hundred twenty-five graduate students combine with that number to equal the total population of married students at Notre Dame. Looking for c_heap h~using near to campus, Ltz and J 1m Ntehaus 
•studied the options available to married students. 
The Niehauses discovered 
that Notre Dame offers 117 
units in a housing complex 
called University Village, one­
naif mile from campus. One 
criterion at the Village is that 
the rrsidents have children. 
For those who do not have 
children, there are 24 apart­
ments provided on Cripe Street. 
The University Village apart­ments have two bedrooms, a living room, bath, and a kit­chen. The Cripe Street apart­ments only have one bedroom, but otherwise their layout is the same. 
Fr. Michael Heppen, director of housing, explained in a recent interview that his office is not directly responsible for providing married students with housing arrangements. According to Heppen, the stu­dent managers of the Village and Cripe Street apartments arrange the leases. 
"I don't know if there are married students who are not able to get married student housing or not," Heppen said. He added, "I haven't had any complaints so I assume we're doing well in that area. There are no changes to be made in the foreseeable future.'' A random sampling of 27 married students at Notre Dame were surveyed as to whether or not they had difficulties finding housing arrangements! Nine said "yes" and 18 answered 
' ' ',
..no. • • 
As the Niehauses have a young daughter, Stephanie, they chose to live in Umversity Village. The youn~ family tried other non-umverstty sponsored local apartments, but Jim noted that "at University Village you can't beat the rent and the kids have a lot of playmates and babysitters.'' 
However, the couple ob­serves an unusually difficult problem of communication there. The problem is with the English language. There are many married foreign graduate students who have come to Notre Dame having previously received degrees in their own countries. Although the stu­dents do speak English, many times the non-student spouses do not. • 
Liz Niehaus explains that the foreign graduate students at Notre Dame are generally older than other graduate students and have been able to establish families. She added that the American ethic tends towards later marriages, particularly in thi~ fai~ly conservative Catholic umverstty. 
According to Frank Carrico, the retired Director of Mainte­nance for the Village who worked there for 18 years, all 100 units there are usually filled. ''If there aren't people in 'em, they are paying the rent just to hold 'em," he said. Overcrowding at University Vil­lage is a big problem for many on the waiting lists. Enwere Dirke commented: ''I applied for housing accomodations at University Village in the sum­mer semester. Th~ manager tells me the list of waitmg students is so long I do not have a chance. Now I live in South Bend where my stipend isn't even enough to pay my rent, not to talk of other expenses. ' ' 
Sociology graduate, Pat Her­rimann has found the Cripe Street apartments very agree­able: ''The rent is reasonable, the apartments are clean and the carpentry is nic. They are small but there is just enough room." Notre Dame bought the Cripe Street apartments, built in 1970, from Portage Realty approximately five years ago. 
''They were kind of bad when we got them; they had bad plumbing and bad closets,'' says Frank Carrico. He re­placed all of the bathroom fixtures in the apartments, and he checked three times a day to make sure everything was run­ning smoothly. 
Located between the Village apartments and those on Cripe Street is the University Village Center, a house owned by Notre Dame which has been turned in to an all-purpose center by tearing down a wall between the living room and the dining room. Fr. Kevin McGrath , OSB, a Benedictine from Ala­bama working on his doctorate in Theology at Notre Dame, resides there as the married students' chaplain. The center is open to all couples to use and vanous activities including La­vage Childbirth Sesswns, Brownie Scouts meetings, and men's Sunday chess clubs have gone on there. · 
"Being a student myself, I know what it entails, and working with the married stu­dents at University villas.e, I know what family life entails. I find that it's a challenging combination and realize that I'd like to be of whatever help I can to them," reflects Father Mc­Grath. 
He does not understand his job to be the same as those who work for Campus Ministry with unmarried students. He deli­berately stays in the back­ground. 
''In a way I've felt that they have been the step-children of the J.Jniversity ·· left on their own, yet, they like not being in the middle of things,'' McGrath said. 
He stressed that the families value their independence and that he must, therefore, take a differeint approach with them than if they were on campus. He said that he likes to remind them that he is there to help them by casual encounters. He added, however, that he knew that the villagers would be upset if they did not have a chaplain. 
The Financial Aid Office deals with a number of Notre Dame's 254 married students. Two-hundred and two are re­ceiving financial aid this semes­ter. Mr. Joseph Russo, Direc­tor of Financial Aid, said in a recent interview: "I would not reward a married student with a scholarship because he is mar­mied, nor would I take it away." 
Russo stresses that many married students come to the Financial Aid Office solely for advice. He told that he often sits with students just married, and works a budget out for them. 
Married students have dif­ferent tastes in recreation from those of single students. The Niehauses say that there are few social events set up special­ly for married students. They find they do not fit into the on-campus social atmosphere that involves going to the bars and drinking, or going to par­ties in dormitories in order to meet other singles. 
Another married students a~­reed saying: "Socially, thts University seems to me to be one large keg.'' · 
The managers of the married student apartments will some­times arrange large-scale com­munity activities, but generally the students have small get­togethers among themselves, continued Jim Niehaus. His wife, Liz, remembers only three large social events for married students in their three years as a ·married couple at Notre Dame: a Summer of '77 village-wide picnic, and the annual Knights of Columbus Easter Egg Hunt and Christmas Tree Lighting. 
Instead of meeting other couples at the bars, many Umversity Village residents meet each other vta their child­ren on the playground behind the apartments. Men and women both make this trip ''out back.'' If both spouses are students, they arrange to es­cape having classes at the same time so that one parent can babysit. Yet, if both parents do have classes at the same time, or if one parent works, they are on their own to find babysitters. 
Nothing has been arranged by the University or by the apart­ment managers. Finding baby­sitters, perhaps, is one of the married students' biggest prob­lems. 
Like most single undergradu­ates, many married couples enjoy Notre Dame sports. However, some quarrel with administration policy for spouses' football tickets. They hold that since there are so few married undergraduates, the spouses should be able to sit with their partners in the student section. Instead they are given tickets in the end zone with the graduate students. 
Still, the married students are not asking to tumble Notre Dame's single-oriented social atmosphere. Out of 27 inter­viewed, 20 responded that the atmosphere was generally agreeable, six responded rtega­tively, and one did not com­ment. 
They seem to agree with the student that said: ''Married students have diffi­culties peculiar to their state, but because of his responsibili­ty to his family, he must make certain adjustments to his schedule, and omit some of the usual campus activities... It comes with the territory.'' 
Oub 
sponsors trip 
Tomorrow, the ND-BB/BS will sponsor a trip to the Chicago Planetarium and Aqua­ri•Im for all interested BB/BS. 
Call Zena Crenshaw ( 697 5) as soon as possible if you plan to attend. 



ICEIAM)AIR ID EUROPE BIG ONA 
Roundtrip from !'Jew York to Luxembourg 
No restrictions 
Confirmed reservations • free wine with dinner, cognac after • no restrictions on stays to I yr. or advance purchase. Prices valid from lJ.S. from March 10 thru May 14, 1980. All schedules and prices subject w change and government approval. Purchase tickets in the U.S. 
r~;:-t:;a;n-;:;:;:~e;.-;~-------, 
Icelandair P.O. Box 105, .. West Hempstead, NY 11552. Call in NYC, 757-8585; elsewhere, call 800-555-1212 for the toll-free number in your area. Please send me: 0 An lcelandair flight timetable. 
0 Your European Vacations brochure. Name ____________________________________ 
Address --------------------------------­City------------------------------------­State-----------ZiP'----------------­
ICELANDAIR 
Still your best value to Europe 
•--I' I I I l I •: ' •r ) J t t .t .• I r • C, I I t .. I r f ~ • t .,. • +I t I l • t 4 t-..... I • I .: t • ~ • t ' •.t jl _S I f 1f ·t, ..' ·;,.---~ ·~·.:.-,~ .:... '·~ • • _.. ,j.•• ,r: ~ .-. . . " ~ ' r ' .. I ( 1 l.·'' 1, 1 I' .a r ~ C I I ':1 f I t ( t t I ttl I lit: t. \.Itt. t t t f t t. t t ·• $; t t. ·t t ·• r ~-(, • c "-' "-& ·• 
....-. -. .
".••-.1 \~. ~ ; ·! 
.,.·,·~a ,:.... _. .-• • w A .. -4 ~--.-••• 

r ·I 
\. 
The Observer Friday, March 21, 1980-page 6 
A.C.S. revises recommefldations for routine medical tests 
NEW YORK (AP) -With evidence mounting that early detection does no ~ood in lung cancer, the Amencan Cancer Society said yesterday it no longer recommends routine an­nual chest x-rays for heavy smokers. 
The society also revised re­commendations for tests for cancer of the cervix, colon, rectum and breast after a study by Dr. David Eddy of Stanford University of the cost versus effectiveness of such tests. 
A statement from Dr. Saul Gus berg, the society's national president, said the revisions ''deliver essentially the same health benefit as the previous recommendations at a gre~uly reduced cost, risk and inconve­mence. '' 
But Gusberg cautioned that they apply only to people who don't have any symptoms of cancer. People with symptoms should see a doctor immediate­ly, he said. 
For lung cancer, the society dropped a recommendation that peoJ?le with a higher-than­normal nsk get an annual chest x-ray. "High-risk" persons were those over age 4Q. who are heavy smokers or work with known carcinogens like asbes­tos. 
Eddy's study concluded that tests for lung cancer, which include chest x-rays and spu­tum cytology, a test based on mucus from the lungs, do indeed detect the disease· at an early stage. But he said lung cancer is so hard to cure 
! 
n11 FIIERIRD 
SUNDAY 
~.March 2l. at 3:00pm 

O'Lauqhlin Auditorium, St. Marlj's C:OI~ Tickets: S!UX> tor adults $2.50 tor stucleonts 6 senior citize.tu Availab~ at: O'L~hlin Auditorium 2&4-41lb ~":1 ~r 264-9111 
that ''there actually is evidence from a half-dozen studies that such early detection does not reduce mortality.'' 
Besides, Eddy said, x-rays themselves carry a small health risk, and there is "serious risk'' of wasted time and money when tests are ''false­positive," that is, they indicate a cancer where none exists. 
In other revisions, the society: 
Dropped a recommendation for an annual Pap smear to detect cervical cancer, recom­mending instead a Pap smear every rhree years for women aged 20 to 6 5 and those under 20 who are sexually active. 
Dropped a recommendation that men and women over 40 get annual tests for blood in the stool and an annual exam with a proctosigmoidoscope, an instrument that looks for can­cer of the colon and rectum. 
Strengthened its recommen­dations for the use of x-rays to detect breast cancer. The soci­ety previou-1y urged routine annual mamfilograms for wo­men over 50, those over 40 wi:h a family history of breast cancer, and those over 35 with a personal history of breast cancer. 




Helection were held today, Harris poll predicts Ford the winner 
NEW YORK (AP) -A new ABC News -Lou Harris poll~ says former President Gerald Ford would defeat President Carter if the 1980 presidential election were held today. 
In addition, the poll said Ford may now be a slight favorite over Ronald Rea~an among Republicans and mdependent vote~s f~r the GOP presidential nommatton. 
The poll was taken last week and completed before the final results of Saturday's South Carolina primary were known. Reagan won that GOP primary so decisively that the second­place finisher John Connally dropped out of the race yester­day. 
The poll said Ford would get 54 percent of the vote to Carter's 44 percent if the November general election were held now. Two percent of the registered voters inter­viewed were not sure. 
But Carter would defeat Rea~ gan by a 58-40 margin, the same poll showed. Two percent were not sure. 
Republican and independent voters in the poll were asked for their choice for the GOP presi­dential nominee. 
Ford was named by 33 per­cent and Reagan by 27 percent. 
Because of the sampling error margin involved in these figures -ABC -Harris polls generally have error margins of about 6 percentage points ei­ther way -one can only say that Ford and Reagan split the vote, with Ford perhaps slightly a­head. 
A surprising finding of the poll was that Rep. John Ander­son, R-111. was the choice of 15 percent of the GOP-independ­ent group. That put him in a virtual tie with Georse Bush, who received the backmg of 14 percent. 
Others received 7 percent. Four percent of the voters polled were not sure. 
Those results compare to a ABC-Harris poll taken in No­vember 1979 which showed Ford with 25 percent, Reagan 30 percent, Bush 6 percent, Anderson 2 percent and other candidates 25Jercent. Twelve percent name no one or were not sure. 
The number of voters polled was not available from the pollster. 
John Pinter 
assutnes WSNDduties 
John Pinter, a junior from Evanston, Illinois has been elected news director to WSND AM-FM for the coming aca­.demic year. A resident of Keenan hall, Pinter will assume his newsroom duties following spring break. 
Pinter replaces graduating sen~~r, Cathy Murray in the posmon. 
) 
I 
I. 
i 

N"l\Ji) :\\JD PSYCHOLOGICAL SERVICES PRESENTS 

SPOTLIGHT; 
SPOTliGHT PSYCHOLOGY--13fast -pacedandexciting quarter-hourfeatures ofusefulandinteresting information which ever) individuals hould have. 
i l"i .....1·: ,l..... ,..., a tirst in its efforr £O enhance public awareness of recent developments in the ', ;l·,~. ,.•111d pral 1ic~ of psychol~gy a~d ?f the potential impact of research findings on the "1 • l"l'"' uf u.... all. Thts wed· s topic IS: 
WE CAN WORK IT OUT -probes the concept ofthe ''quality ofwork lift: -· andfinds that in the United States satisfaction with the job is becoming as important as materialrewardsQD. the job. Innovations such asflextime, worker education programs andjob sharing are part ofthis new trend. 
d· ,,l;l '" L.. 1cn w W.SND Sunda evenin at Midni hr or Tuesda evenin at 11:45 .m. 
980 Lenten Sermon Series "JESUS CHRIST IS LORD" 
March 23. Fr. Michael Mccafferty, CSC 
SUnday Vespers 7:15pm Sacred Heart Church Lady Chapel 

The Observer Friday, March 21, 1980-page 7 


Supreme Court rules com:panies liable in DES controversy 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Any company marketing a drug that could cause cancer in the daughters of women who took the drug may be liable even though their product was nor involved. The California Su­preme Court ruled yesterday. 
The 4-3 decision, written by Justice Stanley Mosk, could affect not only the 200 drug firms which made or marketed diethylstibestrol (DES), a syn­thetic compound of the female hormone estrogen, but possibly other firms involved with drugs -yv~ic~ may have caused similar mJunes. 
Attorneys for Judith Sindell, 29, Los Angeles, and Maureen Rogers, 27, Fontana, had argu­ed the companies "knew DES was carcinogenic and harmful, but still marketed the product in a crass desire for money. . 
'' 
The women alleged they de­veloped precancerous and can­cerous tumors as a result of DES their mothers used to prevent miscarriages. Mrs. Sindell sued for S11 million and Mrs. Rogers for an unspecified amount. 
Superior courts in Los_ Ange­les and Ventura Counties dis­missed the class actions but a Court of AP.peal reinstated them in Aprtl 1978 and the defendants, Abbott Laborato­ries, Rexall Drug ~o., Eli Lilly and Co., E.~. Squtbb and Sons and the UpJo~n Co., appealed to the state htgh c~:>l;Irt. 
The court's d~ctston means the cases now wtll be returned for trial to determin_e if the "';'Omen can prove thetr allega­uons. . . . 
The _plamnffs clatm between 1941 and 1971 the defendants produced and sold DES w~ich may cause cancerous vagmal and cervical growths. The can­cer, adencarcinoma, manifests itself after a latent period of 10 or 12. years. It is a. fast spreadmg and deadly dtsease which requires surgery. . 
DES also causes adenosts ­precancerous vaginal and cer­vix growths. 
The suit contended defendants were negligent because "they knew or should have known" DES was carcinogenic and that it was ineffective in preventing miscarriages. 
AtThree Mile Island 

Leak poses no threat 
MIDDLETOWN, Pa. (AP) ­Technicians worked to find and plug a leak causing a ~light mcrease in radiation inside t~1e Three Mile Island nuclear po­wer plant's auxiliary buildmg yesterday. Officials said it pos­ed no health threat. 
Officials suspected the air­borne radioactive particles came from a small water leak in a pump system that adds water to the plant's primary reactor 
Economics 
sponsors 
lectures 
_The. Departm~nt of Econo­mtcs 1s spo~sonng a pair of lectures gtven by Gar Alperovitz, co-director of the National Center for Economic Alternatives. 
The frrst lecture entitled "Inflation, Basic Necessities & the Distribution of Economic Power' ' is scheduled for 4: 15 
p.m. Monday in room 122 of Hayes-Healy. 
''Community as a Funda­mental Economic Strategy,'' the second talk, will be held at 8 p.m. Wednesday in the Galvin Life Science Audito­num. 
Alperovitz enjoys a distin­guished list of academic cre­dentials. In addition, he has authored several articles which have appeared in the New York Times and the Washington Star. He has also authored several books. 
Alperovitz has been quite active with labor groups. He has served as Legislative direc­tor in both the U.S. House of Representatives and the Sen­ate, and is also the former president of the Cambridge Institute. 
• At present, from his Wash­ington based office, he analy­zes economic policies and offers proposals for restruc­turing the American economy. 
cooling system. 
The plant has been out of operatton since it was damaged on March 28, 1979, when the rea "r lost cooling water and overhc...~ed in the worst acci­
dnet  in  the  history  <;>f  U.S.  
commercial  nuclear  power  
plants.  

Monitors inside the building, which adjoins the giant reactor containment building, first de­tected the increase at 1 a.m. yesterday. 
Although plant operations theorized an extremely low amount of radioactivity escaped into the air, it could not be detected on sensitive monitors in the building's ventilation system. 
' 'The main thing is we're not seeing any changes on our outside monitors. We know something is going out, but we can't detect it," said plant spokesman Sandy Polon. 
• ''It's a very small leak. We've not seen any release that would exceed limits," said John Col­lins, chief of operations at the site for the U.S. Nuclear Regu­latory Commission. 
Plant officials would not s~e­culate on the type of radioactive material. However, Collins said it may have been panicles of radioactive cesium released when the leaking water eva­porated. 
News of the leak came after hundreds of angry residents, some waving signs and a few wearing gas masks, vented their fears over a porposal to purge radioactive gases as a way to speed the cleanup of the badly contaminated plant. 
Thomas Geruskey, head of state Department of Environ­tal Resources, said the state favors the venting plan because leaks will continue at the plant until it is cleaned up. 
''Even though they IIJay be small, there may be greater ones in the future in bad weather conditions, giving higher ex.I?osures to the indtvi­duals offs1te than a controlled venting situation would,'' he said. 
The drug companies argued there was no basis for legal action· because the women could not identify the rnanufac­curers of the drug their me­thers took. 
The decision, joined in by 
_ Chief Jusrice Rose Bird, Jus­rice Frank Newman and Justice Pro Tern Clinton White, agreed liability generally depended on proving injuries were caused by the defendant. But it said there were excep­tions, adding ''between an innocent plaintiff and negligent defendants the latter should bear the cost of the injury." The decision said that ad­vances in science and techno­logy create goods which may harm consumers and cannot be traced to any producer. ''The response of the courts can be either to adhere rigidly to prior doctrine, denying reco­very to those injured by such products, or to fashion reme.­dies to meet these changing needs," the court added. The dissent by Justice Frank Richardson, joined by Justices William Clark and Wiley Man­uel, said the decision was unwise because the "ramifica­tions seem almost limitless.'' The majority, the dissent ad­ded, ''effectively makes the entire drug industry, or at least its California members, an insurer of all injuries attributa­ble to defective drugs of uncer­tain or unprovable origin, in­cluding those injuries manifest­ing themselves a generation later..." 
.. . Budget 
[continued from page 1) 
By voice vote yesterday, the House Budget Committee ap­pmved the recommendation to cur $836 million by ending Saturday mail deliveries and reducing subsidies for bulk mail. The panel's vote does not mean Saturday mail deliveries will definitely end, however. Even if approved by the full 
Congr<:ss, the proposal could be 
averted if the U.S. Postal Service raised rates or made other cuts to achieve the sav­mgs. 
Rep. Jim Mattos, D-Texas, said the Saturday mail _proposal might also be defeated when it reaches the House floor and suggested the committee sim­ply recommend an $836 million postal cut without mentioning Saturday deliveries. 
Meanwhile, Rep. James M. Hanley, D-N. Y., chairman of the House Post Office Commit­tee, attacked the proposal to end Saturday deliveries, saying such a move "would not serve the American people well.'' 
The budget committee also recommended saving $100 mil­lion through elimination of the 
Law Enforcement Assistance Administration, which has pro­vided grants to local police depanments for research and equipment since 1968. The LEAA proposal brought the first sharp clash between Giaimo and committee liberals as Rep. Elizabeth Holtzman, D­N.Y., denounced the cut as "gratuitous." Democratic liberals openly threatened to break with Giai­mo in a dispute over a proposed $50 million cut in the $321 million legal aid .... program..
. 
, APPLICATIONS NOW AVAILABLE FOR: 



STUDENT GOVT. CABINET POSITIONS 
Pick up applications from S.G. Secretary, 2nd floor ofLa ,Fortune 
Applications due by ·thurs. march 27th 

·~ 
., 
I
... 

COME GET GROSS! 
UD VOLLEYBALL REGISTRATION 
Sun. 23rd from 1-3 
LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
-rosters should include players andcaptiansnamean~ phone FREE least 6 -no more than 8 on a team -may be on only one team 
COME EARL\' LIMITED REGISTRAliON 
questions call3274 

] 



ttort 
s 

Friday, March 21, 1980-page 8 
Settingoilprices 
Art Buchwald 
WASHINGTON-A lot of peo­side when he comes back by I ple are starting to get sus,Pi­adding 2 cents a · gallon to l cious that the price of gasohne diesel fuel. We'll call it the I I and oil in this country bears no Burnside Raise. '' ! relation to what is really going "It's done." l on in the OPEC countries. "I have a joke. If you guysl This, of course, is not true. laugh, you have to promtse 
l 
The oil companies have a very to up motor oil 5 cents a tank . ' ' scientific method of computing "Okay, Kelly. But if anyoneI fuel costs and are extremely has heard it, you only get a careful in justifying every price 2-cent raise.'' 
increase in thetr fuel. "It's a deaL Guy goes into a 
I 
I This is how one oil company doctor and the doctor says, does it, and I'm sure the others 'you're very sick . I'm going follow similar ~uidelines. to have to operate.' The guy 
Every mormng at exactly 9 says, 'I want a second opinion.' 
a.m. the "Executive Com­So the doctor says, 'Okay, 
minee for Price Raises· ' meets you're ugly. too."
l 
·.
in the private dining room for Everyone slaps their thighs
l 
I 
breakfast. and Kelly gets the 5-cent I A typical session goes like mcrease. this: ''Say, did we put up the
I 
There are 12 men in the price of airline fuel when the
(. 
l room laughing and joking. U.S. Olympic hockey teambeat Halberstam walks in and the Soviets?" Middlecoff says, "You're late.' ''Yeh, I think we did by 20 
"Sorry about that," Halber­cents a gallon... '' stam says, "I just had a new "Well, I don't know about grandchild.'' you guys, but I think those kids 
''Congratulations, This calls played one helluva game, and I 
for a celebration. What do you beheve we should add another say, gentlemen, in honor of 5 cents to show those Russians Halberstam's new grandchild, what this ,:ountry is really all we raise the price of regular about.'' gasoline by 1 cent?'' ''You won't get any resis­
"Since it's his first grand­tance from us. '' child, I say we should raise it 2 "We're moving right along.' cents.'' ' 'I wish we could figure out 
"No objections. So, done." one more reason to boost the "That's damn decent of you. price at the gas pumps this Wait until I tell Ella, she'll be morning. Don't forget Monday thrilled. Where's Walker?" is a holiday and we won't be 
"Walker's in the hospital meeting until Tuesday.'' 
I i' 
with a kidney stone. We're ''Hey, look out the· window, praying he passes it." everybody. There's a red "Maybe we should send him robin--the first one I've seen flowers.'' this year. '' 
l 
"We thought we'd raise the ''That's good luck. What do price of heating oil 3 cents. you say we add 3 cents on That would do more for his unleaded super premium in morale than flowers.'' honor of Jeremy seeing his 
"Great idea. Where's Burn­first red robin? All in favor say side?" aye. Opposed? The ayes have 
"He's in New York getting it. Well, it looks like we've the Advertising Man of the had a good morning. '' Colman McCarthyYear Award for his brilliant ' 'Hey, we forgot the natural commercials proving the Wind­
gas division.'' WASHINGTON--A subver­the company of a few inspired not merely for school. I decided 
fall Oil Co. makes less profits "Didn't we give them a 5 sive is loose on the American coaches I had in high school. then to stay with both. Refugethan the Public Television Net· percent increase last Friday?'' sporting scene. He is Morgan Like Wootten, my coaches would be needt>,-1.work.'' "Yeh, but that was just to Wootten, the nationally known were men of double disciplines. ) ames Thurber had the "Hey, let's surprise Burn-tide them over the weekend.'' basketball coach at De Matha The man who taught me whimsical view that 95 percent Catholic high school in Hyatts­basketball also taught wood­of American males dream at
\ 
I ville, Md. His charges have working. The latter was de­night that they are on the slam-dunked their way to so rided by the straight-A contin­mound at Yankee Stadium
f 
\ many victories over the years gent as a baby-sittmg course for striking out all the great slug­
I' (649 wins, 92 losses since 1956) the basketball goons. I almost gers. I must be in the other five that a few weeks ago a search thought so mysel( until years percent, because when I dream committee from North Carolina later I read an essay by Willa about sports it isn't Babe Ruth State offered Wootten a five­Cather: "If I could get a or Reggi(' Jackson who appear, year, $700~000 contract. carpenter to make me some but my old coaches on the 

Keep searching, Wootten good bookcases, I would have sidelines. told them. Although flattered as much respect for him as I Except that they weren't on that his winning ways were have for the people whose the sidelines, any more than worth that much to the educa­books I want to put on them. Coach Wootten of Hyattsville is tors of North Carolina, ·wootten Making something well is the marginal in the lives of his high 
kept his head when the principal end of education.'' school kids. My coaches had $700,000 was dangled before My basketball co,ach had said gone beyond the single and him. The trouble was, his head the same, whether we were fixed idea that the sports world had yet to be filled with the idea practicing the fast break or the is the only world, with citizen­that Big Money equaled the Big art of the coping saw. ship limited to the talented. Dream. My golf coach in high school Life, too, these men taught, is 
Instead, it contained dif­was also my English teacher. also about carpentry, literature ferent thoughts, including some For him, reading and golf were and long walks over warm he developed in his other work contemplative acts. Bodi were grass. at De Matha, teaching history. ruined by noise anci speed. Coach Wootten's ideas about "I have always told my history Literature and golf --personal God, family and education students and basketball play­and soft experiences ·· could be might be no more than reaction­
t 
ers,'' he explained to reporters, refuges from life's harshness. ary platitudes had they come ''that their top priorities in life Golf is put down by those from, say, a professional or should be God, family and who think it is the sport of even a college coach. By then, education ·· in that order. big-bellied capitalists. The fat the athletes have mostly been Money was never included and rich do indeed play the game, conditioned. Their individuali­never has been the primary but my high school coach had ty has been submerged beneath factor in my definition of happi­nothing to pick from but a few the pressures to win, be rich ness for myself and my skinny kids who learned the joy and be famous. family." of the sport as caddies. In high school, this fairy-tale 
The promoters and profiteers "Golf is a lifetime recrea­grandeur can be put in perspec­in American sports will have to tion," he would say, "not just a tive by a coach who has moral 
muzzle this infidel accordingly youth-time game." And then substance. Then when his own for such heresies. But for me, m English class, he would insist temptation comes, he knows Wootten from Hyattsville joins that literature was also for life. what to treasure. 

····· 
............ ~~·········"'"' ......... ~ 
I ' 
.... 
The Observer -Editorials Friday, March 21, 1980-page9 
-~ -~l 
........ .....-------------,......--------------------------­

P.O. Box 
The Truth in the scriptures 
Dear Editor: 
From his comments in the 
March 10 issue of The Obser­
ver, it seems that Bill Toohey 
is absolutely certain that Jesus 
was a pacifist and "totally 
rejected violence,'' just as the 
Christian theologians are also 
absolutely certain that the term 
"resurrection from the dead' is 
not a reference to a monotheis­
tic doctrine of reincarnation. 
Approxiamtely two years ago 
a letter appeared in The Obser­
ver in whtch I challenged the 
chairman of the department of 
theology and any other theolo­
gian at Notre Dame to a public 
debate on the meaning of the · 
term ''resurrection of the 
dead.'' I am now challenging 
Bill Toohey or any other theo­
logian at Notre Dame to a 
r.ublic debate on whetherJesus 
'totally rejected violence." 
Of course, I do not expect a reply to this challenge any more than I expected a reply to my first challenge. People who claim to understand the scrip­tures but who do not, in fact, understand the scriptures, tend to avoid those situations which either make their lack of under­standin~ more widely known or tend to mcrease, unnecessarily the risk of unemployment. An investigation of the Truths in the scriptures is, after all, entertainment at its best, just so long as the individual makes certain thay any of those Truths do not interfere with how one makes a living. 
Michael Cecil 
Reagan electable as acandidate 
Dear Editor: 
Perhaps the most frequently cited poll of the past few weeks has been one pitting Gov. Ronald Reagan vs. President Carter in a general election. Carter leads Reagan in this poll, 58-40. This survey has mcessandy been cited as gospel proof that Reagan cannot win in November against Carter by such people as John Anderson, 
NBC, CBS, and ABC. I think it is very important that we keep our perspective on this poll, con­cermng which, a few observa­tions should be made. 
1) In New Hampshire, the Boston Globe loll of voters indicated a dea heat between Ronald Reagan and Geor~e Bush. The results were qutte different: Reagan 50 percent, Bush 23 percent. 
2) In the People's Republic of Massachusetts, nd't exactly Reagan's strongest area, another Boston Globe poll taken one month before the election showed Bush over Reagan by a 61-16 margin. Reagan came within two percent of winning in the state which went for McGovern in 1972. 
3) One week before the election in Illinois, the Chicago Sun-Times poll showed A 1der­son leadingReagan, 39-31. The Tribune had Anderson ahead by a 33-31 margin. Again, the results indicated otherwise, as Reagan carried Anderson's home state with a comfortable 48-3 7 percent victory. The much heralded crossover vote did vote 47 percent for Ander­son. VVhat has been ignored, however, is that Reagan won 40 percent of the Democrat and Independent voters, according to NBC News. 
The point of these examples 
is to illustrate that which should 
now be obvious, i.e. that the 
polls mean nothing when it 
comes to the election. The polls 
always seem to show Reagan in 
bad shape until he begins his 
campai~n in each state, at 
which ttme his popularity soars. 
Those who claim that Reagan 
in unelectable ignore a number 
of significant facts. First, they 
ignore the fact that _Reagan is 
the best campaigner in politics 
today. They also fail to note 
that Reagan won the governor­
ship twice by an average of 
750,000 votes in California, 
where Democrats outnumbered Republicans 2-1. Finally, they ignore the fact that Reagan has a huge target to run against, James Earl Carter. Never in American history has the office of President been occupied by a man of such incompetence. The possibility of his reelection is truly frightful. 
So let's be realistic. If we are going to talk about electability, let's talk about the facts. Governor Reagan is electable. Reagan can, must, and will be elected our next President. 
Gregory S. Folley 
In defense 
oftheCLC 
Dear Editor: 
As a member of the Campus Life Council, a ~roup under considerable critictsm of late, I read with interest the recent articles in The Obsen•er abouc it. I think that Fr. Richard Conyers and Paul Riehle have brought out some of the impor­tant problems concerning the keg proposa~ and the CLC in general. 1ney have raised some of the weaknesses in­herent in the CLC which, of late, have led to some disap­pointing results for myself and others. 
With one of the articles, however, I have some personal objections. That article is an editorial written by The Obser­ver (March 14). In the editorial, The Observer claims that "the CLC can no longer be taken seriously as an advisory body,'' and several other charges. I wonder where The Observer gets its justification for making these requests. It seems irre­sponsible to me that The Observer would have such harsh criticism of thr-CLC when it actually knows little about its operation. The Observer infers that the student representatives are incompetent, calling for "a wider student representation'' in order to get "more imagina­tive and meaningful student commentary on campus life." And, yet, the main source of information on campus issues, The Observer, does not even send a reporter to most of the meetings. 
I agree that there are some problems with the present com­position and lack of power of the CLC, but at this point there does not seem to be a good alternative available. There has been discussion, in the CLC, about possible changes in its composition.. but the consen­sus, thus far, is that the present structure is the most represen­tative. I disagree with The 
Observer's claim that the CLC ·'can no longer be taken seri­ously" and that it is "useless." I think most CLC members would agree that we have done some very positive things this year. 
Before it criticizes the CLC for being irresponsible, I think The Observer should assume a little responsibility itself. If they come to the CLC meetings and learn, firsthand, how it operates, then maybe they will be justified in their future opimons of it. Until then, I think it is unfair for The Observer to influence student opt~ton on a very tmportant toptc. 
Michael P. Sexton 
Services thank NDcommunity 
Editor's Note: The following letter was sent to Fr. Hesburgh by Fr. Edwin Brodenck, execu­tive director of the Catholic ReliefServices. 
Dear Fr. Hesburgh: 
Hardly a month goes by thar we are acknowledging a gift from the Notre Dame Commu­nity. Donations come to us from srudents, faculty and alumni. Lttters telling us of their efforts on our behalf have been received from the Campus Ministry, Third Wodd Relief Fund, Cambodia response, Holy Cross Fathers and Bro­thers and the World Hunger Coalition. (I jusr hope I have not left out anyone.) In every case, their efforts were to both raise funds and, more impor­tant, to raise the conscious level of awareness. 
Needless to say, this over­whelming response of your good people has certainly been an inspiration to all of us here ar CRS. I am indebted to them for their. generosiry and great com­passton. 
There are times when a mere "thank you for everything" seems to be quite inadequate. This is one of them, but I am sure you know the depth of my appreciation and that of the CRS family. 
Rev. Edwin B. Broderick 
Molinelli 'dead' 
to our community 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the letter by B. F. Goyer concerning Michael Molinelli, the author of "Molarity." First, I would like to express my conviction that the stnp is still 
'being composed by Mr. Moli­nelli. I have examined the writing carefully and have dis­covered that it is indeed that of the cartoonist himself. 
To address the claims which Goyer appeals to in order to support the theory that Mr. Molinelli is deceased and there­fore could not be the author of the strip any longer, I wish to make public the fact that I have been 1n contact with the car­toonist and have in my posses­sion a postcard that was sent to me by the allegedly late Michael Molinelli himself. He is, as has been announced in The Observer several times, abroad this year with the Notre Dame Architect Rome Pro­gram. The postcard to which I refer has a ptcture of a statue of the Madonna di Monte Alfeo. Mr. Molinelli relates in his note on the back of the card that this statue sits on top of the mountain where his family comes from. Mr. Molinelli is far from being physically dead: he is in bell' Italia, searching for his roots. 
I do concede that there have been some very cryptic symbols in "Molarity" lately. Indeed, upon examining more closely the strip referred to in Goyer's letter, I find one that was not mentioned. In the ·last panel, just above the author's signa­ture appears on a sweatshirt the message "Bye Notre Dame." In today's cartoon, there are a couple of other clues which seem to indicate that Mr. Molinelli has met with some cruel fate. In tne first panel, ]im Mole appears to be holding a skull; in the last panel, on the desk are the words, "I was." To most people this would seem to be a clear indication that Mike is no longer among the living. However, it is my belief that these clues are not to be taken in their literal sense. 
As one who has spent a year abroad, I know that among students who spend time away from their horne campus there is often the feeling of being ''dead'' to friends on the home campus. Very few friends find the time to keep their promise to write to those abroad. It is my contention that Mr. Moli­nelli feels dead in this very way. He must be employing his comic strip to lament the fact that he hears nothing from the people for whom he writes "Molarity." 
I propose therefore that we, the students ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's, do everything in our power to resurrect Michael Mollinelli from his "death" to our community. Let us deluge him with letters. In fact, why don't we attempt to make this a universal resurrection and write to all those friends abroad to whom we made promises to write? 
Michael Molinelli's address this year is: Via Monterone, 76 00186 Roma, IT ALIA 
Timothy M. Hayes 

administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers
The news is reponed as accurately and 
-The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-m-chief. ....... .Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ..... _............ Mark Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor.......... Diane Wilson Features Editor .....Kathleen Connelly &x Q Notre Dame, IN 46JJ6 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonal Editor ..............Ann Gales Photo Editor ........... ...Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ..... .... M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ......Mike Lewis Business Manager ........Steve Odland n~spaper published by the studefits able to all members of the community, News Editor.................... Mark Rust Production Manager .... John .McGrath of the University of Notre Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News Editor ................. Mike Shields Advertising Manager .... M. Holsinger and Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through leners, is SMC News Editor ........ Margie Brass II Controller......... .........Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. Circulah.on Manager ......Greg Hedges 
' • , • t , , • ' •• 
I ' 
• I I I o I J I I f J J I J • I J I ' I I I 1 ' )
0 I ' ' 

-~-------------~ ~~!.....: 

catches the eye right away. That name is Kevin Hawkins, 
whom we all know and love as one of the "walk-ons" on 
Digger Phelps' basketball team. Hawkins, a junior from 
Los Angeles, also just happens to be the tallest member of 
the volleyball team at 6-5. He uses that superior height and 
his incredible leaping ability to his advantage on the 
volleyball court, and is a valuable asset to the squad. 
But, of course, he cannot do it alone. Although the members of the rest of the squad do not enjoy the notoriety that Hawkins possesses, they are just as valuable to the squad. There is that often-heard-of blend of youth and experience present, with one law student, two seniors, five juniors, one sophomore, and two newly-recruited freshmen comprising the eleven member team . 
I 
\ . O'Har.lon's tea~ is predominantly a tall squad, with six of Its plaxers standmg at least 6-2. Freshman Barry Smith, who hatls from Lancaster, NY, stands at 6-4. Team captain Dennis Regan (a junior from Newport Beach, Calif.), firs~-year law student John Klebba (Des Moines, Iowa), JUntor AI Schumacher (South Holland, Ill.), and senior Gary Metzler (Grand Rapids, Mich.) all stand at 6-2, providing a formidable sight for the oppostiton. Senior Tom Meaney (6-1) and sophomore John Pierce (6-0), though they lack the size of the others, are very adequate performers nonetheless. But volleyball is not just a game for the skyscrapers to show off their spiking skills. There is a place in the game of volleyball for the "little man", and 5-9 Brent Beutter (a junior from nearby Mishawaka), 5-10 Clark Gibson (a 
As one examines the team roster, there is one name that 

~re~hman from Tor~ance, Calif.), and 5-11 Bill Stratman (a 
MEN'S
Jumor from Park Rtdge, Ill.) fill that role admirably. 
Besides clinching the Western Division of the MIVA with 17 points, the ND squad owns among its accomplishments a second place finish in the recent Indiana State Champion­ships at Ball State University . The squad defeated teams 
East Coast Arts B. 
Bel-Air LaFayette 
Elkart O'Hanlon's 
from Earlham Colege, Indiana-Purdue at Fort Wayne, and 
Purdue before falling to the host Cardinals, who just happen. 
Valparaiso lndia:lapolis-RTI 
Macatowa Western Michigan VBC
[continued on page 11] 
BLUE WAVE
Blue Wave, NDco:-Sponsor USVBAtourney
. NAME HT. 
YR. HOMETOWN· ELLEN HOVE 5-10 So. Mishawaka, Ind. 
the same level but the ages vary.'' a national reputation in volleyball.'' 
MARYBETH BRENNAN 5-8 So. Oaklawn, Ill. by Beth Ht~fffiJan Murphy, also the h~ad coach-of Saint Not to be excluded from the favored 
PAT ZANOLLI 5-8 Fr. Oak Ridge, Tenn. MARIANNE VIOLA 5-10 Fr. Park Ridge, Ill.
Women's Sports Editor Mary's varsity volleyball team, found­teams according to Murphy are those 
PEGGY PIESCHEL 5-6 Fr. Springfield, Minn.
ed the Blue Wave this year to keep her from St. Charles, Ball State and 
AMY MORAl~ 5-4 So. San Francisco, Calif. 
Saturday Angela Athletic Facility players in the volleyball swing of Chicago. 
ALISA LUBER 5-6 Fr. Fayetteville. N.Y. 
In the men's. division the Blue 
MAURA KAHN 5-9 Fr. Madison, Ind. Wave's mentor expects the clubs fro~(AAF) and Clay High School will be things. The club practices three days a 
MARYBETH HOSINSKI 5-8 So. Mishawaka, Ind.
the site of a United States Volleyball week and condiuons two days bestdes 
MARIAN OILTZ 5-7 Jr. South Bend, Ind.
Association (USVBA) power play tou&·-boasting an winning basketball Western Michigan, Indianapolis, Val­
paraiso and Notre Dame to be the front nament co hosted by the Blue Wave and team in the Saint Mary's intramural 
Blue 
us 


Blue Wave-0 'Ha~ Angela Athletic Facilit) Saturday, Ma~ 

o·Hanlon's volleyball clubs. The invit­ational has been alternately billed as the ND-SMC Invitational, the SMC­ND Invitational and the second-annual Golden Dome Invitational. Without the harping over who gets top bi:Iing the two campus volleyball groups join a 26-team field in Saturday's competi­"tion of power play. 
"Power denotes a higher level of play. It means not recreational volley­ball." says Erin Murphy, head. coach of the Blue Wave. "Volleyball has progressed so much that there is a need for distinction, we don't pat the ball around like someone in a back­yard." 
The Division A tournament, Division A being the second highest level of play sanctioned by the USVBA, is a collection of 26 teams-16 women's 'and 10 men's-with members repres­enting a broad level ofages, experi­ence and motives. 
'~There' 11 be people from all age groups,'' offers Murphy, a graduate of Lewis College. ''A couple of clubs will be all-star htgh school teams like South Bend Turner's, which has girls from Adams, St. Joe's and other area schools. They could beat a college tournament. 
''Our season is so short, from 
September to November, that they 
have to__· play more," says Murphy of 
her charges. "Next year they would 
have forgotten everything without 
playing. It would take a month to get 
them ba.ck to where they had been the 
previous year." 
Teams will travel to the competition 
from such sites as St. Charles, Missouri, and Columbus, Ohio. The host teams can thank the USVBA for the "tournament's publicity. 
''The tournament is approved by our organization. The USVBA publishes a newsletter with tournaments listed," explains Murphy, also the assistant athletic director at Saint Mary's. "All the clubs have to do is call for information." 
Murphy expects the host Blue 
Wave, which placed second at the 
Kellogg Invitational in January, to be 
one of the better teams along with a 
few other talented clubs in the 
women's division. 
"Valparaiso ought to be good, they 
are Divtsion II in college and the coach 
plays on the team," says Murphy. 
runners. 
"You can't rule out Notre Dame as one of the favored,'' states Murphy_ ''They have been winning at a lot of big tournaments lately.'' 
Saturday's invitational will begin at 9 a.m. with five pools-three women'~ and two men's-in round robin pla)r. Each club will play all the other teams in its pool two games ending at 11. The record of games won in pool play will boost teams to the semi-finals which begin at 6 p.m. in the AAF. The semis will be based on the best of three games to 11 points. The championship matches for both men and women will follow the sdni-finals as the top two teams clash in the best of three games to 1). 
Individual trophies will be awarded to the members of the winning teams in both the men and women's divisions whil~ the second p~ace clubs will each receive team uoph1es. 
The tournament means much more to the Blue Wave andO'Hanlon's than another trophy on the wall, according to Murphy. 
''Besides volleyball we have gained valuable experience through traveling and meeting others. We all pitch in and have fun, too." 

, , .. , .• ' ~~-~~amiiiiii.liiit;'sl;i~niiiteiiiriiiesiiinniii-iii_~g(~thii!aiiitii!thiiiJiiiie~yijp•la•yi;i;ai;iit;ii;ii~";iiiK e~lli;ogg Community College also has 
.. .. 
' 
t ''. t & • , • '. ~: ~ ~ :...:. ! !. !. ·~ •.. ~, '. ~
& •• 
The Observer -Sports Friday,March21, 1980-page 11 


'Enriching experience' 
Erin Murphy--player-turned coach 
By Kate Huffman took 15th place and the 1975 United with the Chicago Rebels Volleyball 
Sports Writer States Volleyball Association nation­Club, on~ of the most noted teams on als, returning to Chicago with 12th the USVBA tour. In 1976, the Rebels place. took the Illinois State Championship, 
Erin Murphy, after an accomplished Murphy moved from the prep scene the six-state USVBA Region VI cham­career as a volleyball player, selected to the college schedule in 1975. She pionship, going on to take sixth place to channel her skills towards the attended George Williams College in at the USVBA national tournament. helping of others--not so unlike the Downers Grove, Ill., on full academic The squad also took the USA Eastern player-turned coaches Frank Robinson and athletic scholarships. Her skills Zone championships. or Ray Meyer. helped the team capture the Illinois While playing with the Rebels, 
Robinson started playing baseball in State Championship and sixth place at Murphy acquired a great deal of the sandlots, broke into the majors the Collegiate Nationals dunng the volleyball experience on the interna­with Cincinnati and went on to play for '75-76 campaign. tional level. The team was in great the Orioles and Cleveland before In 1976, Murphy transferred to demand to play touring teams. The 
taking over as manager for the Tribe. Lewis College in Joliet, Ill., where she Rebels traveled around the country Meyer, a standout All-American selec­again received full academic and putting on exhibitions with such teams tion at Notre Dame switched his athletic scholarships. The team took as the Russian men's and Canadian talents to teaching and came up with a 
men's Olympic teams, the U.S. wo­nationally ranked basketball team. men's Olympic team 'lnd the Japanese Coach of the Blue Wave, Saint women's national team. Mary's club volleyball team, Murphy's "It used to be that volleyball was career parallels that of the two famous mostly played by older people," men. reflects Murphy, "but because we 
Murphy, a native of Morgan Park, were so young, people wanted to Ill., started playing volleyball for her watch us play." grammar school team. "At first it was just another sport to me," says Murphy has nothing but fond me­
Murphy, "like most kids, I played any mories of all ofthe years she has spent
ower Play . sport they could come up with. But in on the volleyball court. ''Even with all the eighth grade I had a really of the hard work and long hours we _put dedicated coach who really sparked my in, for me, the benefits far outweigh 
interest in volleyball.'' the work. I can hunestly say that I Murphy went pn to play for Mother never regretted one minute of the
lon 's Invitational 
McAulley High School in Chicago, workouts, whether it was intramural, where she captained the team her varsity, club, or whatever.'-' senior year. While Murphy was at Like Robinson and Meyer, Murphy
'and Clay High School­Mother McAulley, the team took the has left the coun and turned her 
·ch 22, 1980 
WOMEN'S South Bend Turners
South Bend 
Ball State
Blue Wave 
LaFayette-goldWindy City Columbia
Valparaiso Complete Athletic
Kellogg College Ft. Wayne Service &Supply South Bend Turners (2)
Indianapolis TurnersMichiana LaFayette-black
St. Charles 
O'HANLON'S 
NAME  HT.  YR.  HOMETOWN  
BRENT BEUTTER  5-9  Jr.  Mishawaka, Ind.  
GREG METZLER  6-2  Sr.  Grand Rapids, Mich.  
TOM MEANEY  6-1  Sr.  Santa Barbara, Calif.  
AL SCHUMACHER  6-2  Jr.  South Holland, Ill.  
JOHN PIERCE  6-0  Soph.  Thousand Oaks, Calif.  
BARRY SMITH  6-4  Fr.  Lancaster, N.Y.  
CLARK GIBSON  5-10  Fr.  Torrance, Calif.  
JOHN KLEBBA  6-2  Law  Des Moines, Iowa  
KEVIN· HAWKINS  6-5  Jr.  los Angeles, Calif.  
BILL STROTMAN  5-11  Jr.  Park Ridge, Ill.  
DENNIS REGAN  6-2  Jr.  Newport Beach, Calif.  


city championship three years in a Erin Murphy attention towards helping ot~er pro­row. mising players. She is now in her first Playing for her high team year as head coach of the St. Mary's
school second place in the state tournament volleyball team and the college's clubdidn't satisfy Murphy's love for volley­that year. The following year the 
ball. She was invited to play for the squad from Lewis again placed second team, the Blue Wave. Murphy looks on her entire career in
Morgan Volleyball Club, appropriately in the Illinois tournament. The team sports as an enriching experience.
named after the founder of volleyball, finally triumphed in Murphy's senior ''Sports teach you how to get alongWilliam Morgan. Murphy would year, taking first place m the state 
practice up to two hours a day with tournament, placing second in the with people, how to play within rules Mother McAulley's team and then go Midwest Regionals, and finishing that have to be kept, to discipline straight to practice with the club for sixth at nationals. Murphy added yourself, but most importantly to me, anywhere from two to six hours. leadership to her list of credentials, they give you an opportunity to set a 
goal for yourself and achieve that goal.
The hard work payed off for all of captaining the team her last two years 
the members of the Morgan Club. The at Lewis. She was also named MVP of Most people don't set goals for themselves but athletes are very lucky 
club captured the 1974 Prep National the team two of her last three years on 
ChampiOnships and the 1975 Junior the college scene. oecause we have that opportunity and Olympic title. It also qualified tor the During the off season, Murphy it can give a whole new meaning to 
your life. ' '1974 AAU nationals, where Morgan'~ again turned to club play, this ume 
• • • O'Hanlon's 
[continued from page IOJ 
to be ranked 8th in the nation by the NCAA. 
This weekend, the students of Notre Dame will get an ·opportunity to see their relatively unknown vollyball team in action at Saint Mary's Angela Athletic Facility. The squad will be hosting a tournament, along with SMC' s Blue Wave team, featuring ten top-flight men's colle~iate squads and sixteen of the best female teams in the M1dwest. 
"We should have a good chance of winning the men's tournament," comments Strotman. ''We've been playing well lately, with clinching the division title and all that. It ought to be exciting.'' 
So, now the secret's out. Yes, there is a championship volleyball team on this campus. They call themselves O'Hanlon's Notre Dame volleyball team and they play an exciting brand of volleyball. And they aren't in first place in the MIV A because of Irish Luck either. It just goes to show that, as the saying goes, ''where there's a will, there's · a way." That 'will', if everything goes as planned, can be tra.r:tsformed i';lto an MIV A championship and, if possible, national prommence. 
-The Observer_ 
Supplement Staff 
Editedby: Beth Huffman 
Layoutby: Tom Schuster 
Contributors:Beth Huffman, Kate Huffman, Chris1VeedlE s 
Marybeth Brennan leaps to make the return. 
Photographer: Tim McKeough 

•. 
~ 
l 
1 1 
l 
1 
j 
l
. l 
J 

·­
i. 
Friday,March21, 1980-page 12
Features 
-·· 
World War IIIGives Warning 
"Black Horse One Zero, Black Horse One Zero, this is Shovel Six. Confirming Charlie One's sighting as follows: large armored formation has passed through inter German border Zero Three Zero Five Zulu approxi­mate brigc.lde in size. Infi?rm Black Horse Six that Shovel is engaging. Out.'' 
These are the words that open Gen. Sir John Hacketr's chilling fictional histon', The Third Jf/orld 
fVar, August l985. Translation: a 
.-.... 
massive Russian armor·:d force has just crossed the West German border --the "next" war has started. 
Hackett, brmer commander of th( British Armv of the Rhine--an inte· gral part ot the NATO European defense system is cer :ainly tn a position to know what could happen, and although it is not one of the easiest tasks in the world to conjure up pictures of death and destruction in one's mind, Tlfe Third World War goes a long way toward putting the reader right in the middle of the world's most serious crisis to date-­the crisis that could very well spell an end to our way of life. 
An American intelligence ship in the Gulf of Aden is sunk by . Soviet ships. The President of Mexico assasinated. India and South Africa turn into chaotic states of internal strife. Then, following growing discontent at home, culminating in riots in East Berlin, the Russians take 
a. bold gamble and invade Yugosl8­vta. 
The time is August 1985, and as things turn out, the Soviets have miscalculated with their adventurism in Yu~oslavia. U.S. Marines are flown m and much to the surprise of rapidly advancing Russian troops, engage Soviet troops in bitter com­bat. The Marines pay the price in 
.., \\ 
heavy casualties, but in turn deci-
WOMENONLY! 

'lOP-RANKING NATO 
GH~NERAI S & 
,.._..... 
The Third World War, August 1985, General Sir john 1-Lzckett, Macmillan ­
Publishing Company. $12.95 
John McGrath 
mate the Russians in the battle; To 
save face, the Russian have no 
recourse but to launch an all-out 
attack on Western Europe. World 
War III has begun. 
The purpose of this review is not to 
delve into the outcome of this mind 
game in detail, so I'm going to leave 
you with the thought of numerically, 
superior Warsaw Pact forces sweep­
ing into NATO's defense lines with a 
swiftness, devastation, and merciless 
intensity that would make Hitler's 
Blitzkrieg look like playing cowboys 
and indians. 
Hackett recounts the conflict with a 
meticulous narrative set at a time 
immediately following the conflict, 
looking back on the catastrophe 
through fictional news stories and 
captured military records. It's heavy 
material, and at least a rudimentary 
knowledge of weapons systems and 
military terminology is needed just to 
keep up, but if the reader fits that 
bill, this book can control your eyes, 
and not let go until the last bullet, the 
last laser, the last intercontinental 
ballistic missile, is fired. 
The book is not some lunatic writer's sadistic fantasy. It's a responsible, well-researched, and perhaps prophetic warning to the world of what could very well be starjng us in the face. 
There are some surprises in this war. If it means anything to you, I think it is comforting to read that any future war doesn't necessarily have to end up in a total nuclear holocaust. but that doesn't mean nuclear wea­pons aren't used. Or chemical weapons. Or space weapons. If you're more confused now than ever, good. That's a great indication you 
might want to read about the Third World War before it happens. 
One hint before I finish: We won't be speaking Russian in 1990... 
Symphony to Perform 
Saying No ...Subtly? 
M.WouHe 
AITENTION, FEMALE STUDENTS: (NOPEEKINGGUYS !) 
AreJou hassled and harrassed by numerous admirers? Bothered and 
bogge by countless invitations? (What's it like?) Anyway, here's some 
rehef--brief but efficient rejoinders to return to those persistent suitors. 
Guaranteed to work! (Remember, girls, with the ratio around here, you 
gotta be tough.) Ready? Here we go: 
"I gave guys up for Lent." 
"No, thanks, I'm already doing nothing." 
"My gerbil is expecting babies, and I don't want to miss the glorim.1s 
'
moment. " 
"Why, no, thank you." (Accompany this with retching sounds). 
"Sure, if you can get dates for my roomies, Myrtle Jc·, Butch, Roseanna Rose anna, and Itchy." "Let me check my schedule." (put down phone and go take a long 
shower). 
"I don't date boys. I date men-" 
"I can't go out. I'm ground~d this weekend." 
"Great! When should I have Mom reserve the church, and the banquethall?" Uncle Vito and da boys are taking me out that night." "I hafta study for my blood test." 
. / 
WHAT NOT TO SAY: 
''Sorry, I'm not home.'' 
"No thanks, I don't like guys." (this gets around, you're in trouble, honey). 
"I have an appointment at the clinic." ditto). 
''I'm getting married that evening, sorry." (Naw, he can check the papers). 
"Sorry, I have a "Features" assignment to write for the paper." (oh, come on! No one is gonna believe that !) 
The South Bend Symphony will feature the internationally celebrated soprano, J essye Norman, on Satur­day, March 22 at 8:00 p.m. in the Morris Civic Auditorium. 
Norman will perform selections from Wagner, "Wesendonk Songs" and the Prelude and Liebestod from Tnsten and Isolde. Conductor Her­bert Butler will also direct the Symphony in Mozart's Symphony No. 41, "Jupiter" and Faure's Pellas and Melisande Suite. 
Born in Augusta, Georgia Norman studied with Carolyn Grant at Howard University in Washington D.C., with Alice Uschak at Peabody Conservatory_ in Baltimore, Mary­land, and with Pierre Bernac and Elizabeth Mannion at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. 
Norman's professional career started when she won first prize at the Bavarian Radio Corporation inter­national Music Competition in Mu­nich, Germany. this success rt:sulted in recital and orchestral cc.ncerts throughout Germany and later in other European countries. Her operatic debut was in the role of Elisabeth in Tannahauser at the 
Deutsche Oper, Berlin, in December 
1969. At the Hollywood Bowl in the 
summ~r of 1972 (with James Levine conducting), she sang Aida in a concert performance. In the same summer she appeared with Colin Davis and ·the Boston Symphony Orchestra at Tanglewood, Lenox, massachusetts, in an all-Wagner concert. 
In addition to her many subsequent concerts with Messrs. Levine and Davis, Miss Norman has appeared with such eminent conductors as Muti, Kempe, Boulez, Fruhbeck de Burgos, Mehta, Ozawa and Barenbo­im, and with such prestigious orches­tras as the New York Philharmonic the Chicago Symphony Orchestra: the London Symphony Orchestra, the Los Angeles Philharmonic and the Cleveland Symphony Orchestra. She has also performed opera at Deutsche Oper, Berlin; Teatro Communale, Iorence; Royal Opera House (Covent Garden), London; and at La Scala, Milan. 
Tickets are $7, $6, and $5 for adults and $6, $5, and $4 for students. For further ticket information please call the Symphony office at 232-6343. 

.l, 
:u 

~  ~  '  )  .  .  ~  .  
'  '  ,  ,  1  i>  • •'o  ,_  '  "&  'f  \  ,  I  4  \  •  '  ~  •  •  •  •  "  •  ..  •  •  •  •  •  't  t  \  
.  !  .  '  


Features 
Friday,March21, 1980-page 13 
'
-

LEITERSTO A LONELYGOD 

0~
The Devil You 
Late Sunday evening, after the last Mass was said, and the cheer­leading for ) ahweh had ended for another week, I admitted the Devil to my room, and we played the name of being agnostic. The Devil, reeking of perfume from Pucci, wore a Pierre Cardin shirt and a Princess Mara necktie, like the ones ) eannie gave me for Christmas. He sported a new moustache that's the spitting image of my moustache; and he had the air of a gentleman who has recently lost a great deal of weight. The advantages, to the Devil, of looking like me, is that I don't waste time doubting whether he really exists. As long as I can admit my own existence, I don't have prob­lems establishing the identity of the evil one. 
"As usual," he said, taking my Pall Mall away from me as soon as I had lighted it, ' 'You're working too hard, setting up land deals in Disneyland.'' In separating me from my cigarettes, he makes one of his cleverest appearances as an angel of light. 
"I feel fine," I said, "but who invited you? If you don't mind, I'd rather be alone. ' ' 
"You are alone," he said. 
"Except for you, this room is as 
empty as an atheist's heaven. I'm 
just the night shadow of the doubt 
you're afraid of, the darkness hug­
ging the corners of your mind. If 
you pray, a flight of angels will be 
sent to keep you safe. Isn't that 
what the Divine Ineptitude has 
promised?' ' 
"It's like a game of politics 
between you and Him," I said, 
''where neither candidate speaks 
well of the other." 
"Except," he said, "that Old 
Tinhorn keeps insisting that the 
meek shall inherit the earth. They 
could hardly complain if He even­
tually cheats them; otherwise, if they 
complain, they wouldn't really be 
the meek, and shouldn't be inher­
iting anything.'' 
You can't argue with the Devil; to tell the truth, I don't even try. On Sunday evenings, after the cheer­leading of worship, I'm a little disc\:uraged with God. The Devil, sensing the weariness, cheered me up with the offer of an unruly passion. Out of habit, I rejected it, but I'm unredeemed eno•Jgh to be grateful. 
"He ruins Himself,'' I com­plained. 'He seems to like to be defeated. I like Him so much, but He ,loesn't deserve to be a winner." 
"I could have made it easy for Him," the Devil said modestly. "I could have given Him the whole world to bootlick the legs of His throne; but He wouldn't share. He didn't want to be partners; He insisted on doing it His way.'' His way, for Frank Sinatra, was the height of macho. His Way, for God, was merely self-destructive. 
"Blessed are they that mourn," I tell them, ''for they shall be comfor­ted. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the/eacemakers, for they shall be calle the children of God.'' 
"Honeyed words, like opium," the Devil sneered. I And He calls
I 
me the Father of lies." 
''Experience always ends with death," I said. "In the green leaf of nature, life keeps re-appearing, until winter overwhelms it. But when the great globe of earth itself is cracked, and the earth and seed are consu­med in fire, what will become of existence? Will God give back life then that He wouldn't lift His hand to save now?" 
"I watched Him die," the Devil said. "Proud, mean, spiteful, He preferred to suffer. When He finally died, I covered Him with darkness. He couldn't prevent me from helping Him when He was dead, and I covered Him with darkness, because I didn't like to look at Him." 
"I guess," I said, "that when you finished with Him, He didn't look very much like God any more?'' 
"What," he said, "is He suppo­
sed to look like except a skinny kid 
who is going hungry, or a sick 
woman whose friends have left her, 
or a poor man who needs clothes to 
keep him from freezing. He looked 
like all of them. I could never 
respect a superior whom I had. to 
pity.' ' 
"He ruins Himself," I said, "and 
I'm worn out from trying to get 
people to take Him seriously. It's 
very tiring, teaching them lessons 
about grams of wheat, falling into 
the earth and dying, so that they 
might bring forth new life.'' 
"He couldn't forgive me," the Devil said. "I offered Him the kingdoms of the world and the glory thereof that He could have shared with His beggars, and He couldn't forgive me. With His dying breath, He forgave everyone who hurt Him, but He couldn't forgive me, and it hurt me for quite a long time." 
He didn't seem like a bad devil, as 
he sat there, looking like me, 
grieving for himself, loving God and 
hating Him in the same emotion. 
''Why do you suppose He wouldn't 
forgive you?" I said. 
"Our argument began a long time 
ago," he said, "when I said to His 
creatures: 'Would you like to be like' 
-he hesitated, refusing to say the 
name -'like His Nibs?' His Nibs, 
when He found out, got very angry. 
He said it wasn't supposed to be that 
way at all; that He wanted to become 
like those low, vile creatures Him­
self; that was the way He had 
planned creation. I said it was 
ridiculous ; He should raise crea­
tures to His level, not descend to 
theirs. Did He expect outstanding 
angels like myself to look like vile 
vermin? He said that He didn't 
expect anything from His angels 
except that they should await their 
marching orders. I said that if 
marching orders meant Ikowtowing. 
to silly creatures, He could shove 
them up St. Gabriel's horn, because 
I march~d to the beat of a different 
Mom, Stick to Bingo 
Mrs. Eileen A. F. prominent resi­dent of ~he township of Lower Merion, pa. braked to a screeching halt in front of Mapes Five and Dime store :md hoi1ked her horn. Mr. Mapes, a hulking, shapeless man in his early fifties, sporting the latest in polyester chic, slowly ambled to the car window. Mrs. F. whipped a check ·out of her wallet. 
''Would yo~-mind cashing this for 
me?" 
The check, a sood one, too, repre­
sented an enure week's worth of 
grocery money -money to feed the 
five voracious little mouths at home.
Mr. Mapes gazed at the check for a 
long moment. His gaze shifted to 
Mrs. F's face. He looked at the check 
agam. 
"Can we make a deal?" 
Apparently, Mr. Mapes had ~otten 
a hot tip from his bookie at Ltberty 
Bell race Track. He was talking a 
gelding named Black Destroyer 
"Why don't you JUSt J?O cu•cau and place the bet yourself?' , asked Mrs. F. 
"Well, I've· already put down some money, and, well, I've gotta pay the help." 
The help, seven punky thirteen year olds, had their httle noses pressed against the store window to make sure Mr. Mapes would not try to run away. 
"Look Mrs. F.,ahorse is a sure thing. If you go halves with me on this bet, you could get those new living room curtains.'' 
"I don't know, I've got a husband and five kids at home.'' "Yeah, and do you got a mink coat at home?" "What race is it?" 
Black Destroyer was running in the ninth race. The track was hard and fast. The race started precisely at the designated time; Black Destroyer ran without mishap and finished last. 
That night, Mrs. F. fixed scrambled eggs for dinner. She said she was too tired to fix a big meal. Then after dinner, while her family was watch­ing reruns of "Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea," she turned up the T.V . 
really loud ~o no one cou_ld hear anything, whtch was good, smce she didn't want anyone to overhear the call she was about to make. Since half the bet was Mr. Mapes', she could therefore extort enough money from him to enable her to fake it through 
the weekend. 
"What do you mean you can't gtve me the money yet?'' 
"Well, a lot of those little twerps had put in overtime, and cash turnover was high today and there's nothing in the cash register. What can I say?" 
What could Mrs. F. do? 
Her children, sensing• her distress, without understanding its cause, rallied around her to offer their comfort and support. 
"Mom, I need new sneakers." 
"Shut up." 
"Mom, I need them bad. See, my 
toes are sticking out." 
Rev. Robert Griliin 
drummer. The He told me to get out, and I told Him I was getting out, but He could send for me when he had come to his senses. He hasn't sent for me yet, so I keep taking His creatures away from Him, tempting them with offers of the kingdoms and glory of the world that His Nibs, with His slumming, had no use for.'' 
By now, the Devil had begun weeping, as though he regretted taking creatures away from their Maker, but taking creatures away, was what a Creator, who wouldn't compromise, made a poor devil do. Sweat was beading brow, and he had begun reeking rather vulgarly with the smell of burning sulphur. Afraid that he might hurt me, I threw holy water at him, to make him disao­pear. "Et tu, Brute? Then fafls Caesar,'' he said with great dignity. With words from a scene he had rehearsed before, the arch villain of the world left my room, like an actor playing tragedy with wounds from a personal sorrow. 
There is an evil part of me that makes me nervous: the night shadow of a doubt I'm afraid of, a darkness hugging the corners of my mind. On days like Sunday, when I preach too 
much, making God somewhat smal­le~ than myself, feeling sorry for Htm because He may not exist -if He does exist, why the suffering? ­th•arDevil comes to tell that God bears him a grudge.
-..... 
As a member of the Devtl's party, I . know that the Devil lies. God doesn't bear grudges, but the Devil nurses a grudge. The Devil resists the mercy to forgive God for being outcast and 
leperous The sin of not forgiving is tne Oevil' s sin against God Who, so fra, seems to have lose most of the battles. An old lady once praised the Devil with the remark: "You've got to admit that He's a hard worker. On Sunday evenings, when I've finished cheerleading, I wish like the Devil that I could say of God; "He's a hard worker.'' 
"I'll break your toes and then you won't need any sneakers." And so it went. Finally, Mrs. F. became de­sperate. There we reno eggs left to scramble, no hot dogs to defrost. 
The sounds of her 
children wailing for peanut butter 
forced her to extreme measures. 
Storming her way into Mr. Mapes' 
five and dime, she planted herself 
next to the cash register, and as the 
Narberth Little League bought their 
post -/ractice bubble gum, she 
snatche the change from the 
cashier's hand until she had collected 
the amount Mr. Mapes owned her. 
Then, she set about her weekly 
shopping. · 
''Why are you giving me such a lousy cut of pork roast,'' she screech­ed at the butcher,'' I had to wait around for two hours while some little creeps at the soda fountain traded Jim Palmer for ) oe Morgan and 
I want value." 
Kate F. 
• 

I 
I~
, 
l 
I ) 
I 
I 
) 
1 
' 
I \ 
i ) 
I 
I 
~ ~ 
j 
·~ 
l ) 
J 
} 
' 
J 
The Observer 
Gasoline -targets announced 
... 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Energy Department yesterday announced gasoline conserva­tion targets, which each state is expected to meet during the next three months. 
The targets call for a nation­wide reduction of about 6. 7 percent in gasoline use during April, May andJune, compared wtth the corresponding months ::>f 1979. 
The proposed state reductions range from a low of 1. 1 percent in Wyoming to 17 percent for Alaska. 
Department representatives said the percentages for each state are not actually related to the amount of gasoline used in the states last year. They said the ~ercentages represent an ideahzed estimate of what last year's figure would have been in each state under "normal" conditions -when adjusted for the effects of weather and fuel shortages, for example. 
The targets set by the depart­ment are voluntary and each state is to decide how to meet its target. The states are to submit plans to the federal government, detailing ways to achieve the goals. 
De~artment spokeswoman Mana Uharenko said this 
means  an  individual motorists  
can't  tell  what  kind  of  a  
fuel-saving  effort  is  expected.  

until his state government spells it out. 
~iDASJ 
JUST 5MILESNORTH OFN.D. ON U.S. 31 
Phone 684-37 
Open Mon.-Fri. 8to6 
Sat. Bto 1 


Friday, March 21, 1980-page 14 

In Michigan 
State initiates plan to combat Curene 442 
ADRIAN, Mich (AP) -The mainly Mexican-American working class people of Sunny­side are struggling to under­stand that they must wear shoes in the summer and keep dust outside because of a substance they cannot see and have no Spanish w~rd for. 
The substance in Curene 442, a synthetic chemical which makes plastic unbreakable. Sci­entists say its Jellow particles have permeate the air and soil in Sunnyside, a neighborhood on the outskirts of Adrian. 
The Curene in Sunnyside comes from the Anderson De­velopment Co., the only U.S. manufacturer of the chemical. Chemist Amos Anderson founded the firm in Adrian in 1967 and has made Curene for the past 11 years. 
Residents are mystified by the public debate over Curene ­which has caused rumors in rats and dogs. While it has yet to make any person sick, scientists say Curene may also produce cancer in humans. 
But Curene is a small worry in the lives of (>eople in Sunny­side, who felt 1solated by pover­ty and municipal neglect long before they heard of the chemi­cal. They say they've complain­ed for years about foul indus­trial odors, the lack of running water in many homes, inade­
quate  sewers  and  unpaved  
streets.  
Many houses  are  little  more  

than tarpaper shacks. Dozens of windows are broken or covered with cardboard. 
The mistrust of government and industry has been sharpen­ed as lawyers, scientists, politi­cians and bureaucrats squabble over cleaning up Curene 442. 
''Nobody cares about Sunny­side,'' said Maria Gonzalez, a recently elected county com-
Repro Graphics 
306 So. Noire Dame Avenue • Soulh Bend, IN 46617 • (219) lRR-9695 
Job Objective:  Making crowd.  YOUR  resume  stand  out  in  a  
<.:apabilities:  ,  24 different styles of type. 12 type sizes, 6 to 36 point. 8 type styles on line at one time. Word spacing. either automatic or operator controlled.  
Pricin~:  One page-$17.00, Two pages-$30.00.  
References:  Available by calling 288-9695.  

Sl.OO OFF LARGE PIZZA I 
141n./31t.m l)luo only eq:ieq:Jd131 uaual ptlcela 16.00 I thla weekend only, fteelltte of pop with I 
,___ 
anylatge pizza ·--.. 
missioner. "Politically speak­ing, if it were where the rich 
people live,  there would have  
been  some  immediate  atten­ 
'tion. ''  

''These poor Chicano and white people don't have the political clout that it takes to get 
h. d " 
so•net mg one. 
Sunnyside didn't even learn of the fotential chemical dangers unti social workers successfully urged the county to print flye~s lf1 Spanish and hire a Spanish­speaking employee, she says. 
Ms. Gonzalez went to the state for help. She claims city offi­cials ignored Curene because Sunnyside is on the fringes of Adrian, and the county lacks 
the money. 
The state responded with a never-before-tried "deconta­mination" plan that could cost taxpayers up to $6 million. 
• • .Gasprices 
[continued from page 4] 
entering the British capital, a two percent weekday decline and four percent on weekends. 
''We might use the car once a month over the weekends now,'' a British housewife told the AP. "A year ago, it was every weekend, and now I think twice about driving to the supermarket in London on weekdays.'' 
In Italy, however, gasoline consumption climbed eight percent from the 1978 level despite the price increases. 
U.S. gasoline use fell five percent in the same period. 
The average price of a gallon of regular gasoline at a full­service U.S. station was $1.13 in January, up from 68.42 cents a year before, according to the Lundberg Letter, a publication that covers the mdustry. 
In many areas, prices are expected to contiue to climb as the new Organization of Petro­leum Exporting Countries price boosts that hit in late January and early February work their way down to the pump. 
Those increases will hurt poon·r countries especially. In Kenya, where the World Bank estimates annual per-capita in­come at $2. 70 the price of a gallon of premium gasoline has risen to $2.18 a gallong from 
U.57 at the end of 1978. 
But motorists aren't paying more everywhere. Big cars clog streets and highways in Vene­zuela, OPEC's fourth-largest member, where the price of premium has remained at just 
30.8 cents a gallon over the past year. 
A traveler who visited Saudi Arabia this month said the oil cartel's largest producer has even cheaper fuel: High-test at 29 cents a gallon. 
In Mexico, another major producer, the state oil monopo­ly has frozen the price of gasoline at 46 cents a gallon for regular and 65.4 cents for premium since November 1976. 
And in Canada, where con­trolled domestic crude oil pri­ces are 60 percent below the 
world  level,  drivers  pay  81  
cents  a  gallon  for  regular  
gasoline, up from 71  cents  a  
year before.  

In many countries, high gaso­line prices are due not only to rising crude oil prices but to high taxes as well. 
Taxes make up 53 percent of the price of gasoline in Bel­gium, where a gallon of pre­mium fuel now sells for $3.11· up from $2.3 7 a year ago -but motorists there don't seem to be deterred by the price in­crease or the high tax. 
"When prices go up, peo~;>le mar. drive less for a bnef whtle, but they soon go back to their normal driving habits," said a spokesman for the Belgjan Petroleum Federation. 
Japan's government said the average J;>rice of a gallon of gasoline, mcluding an 85 cents­a-gallon tax, has risen to 
$2.13-$2.~5 from $1.42-$1.85 a year earher. • 
American taxes, by contrast, average only 14 cents a gallon, newsletter publisher Dan Lundberg estimates. 
Italian taxes account for 64 percent ofthe country's $3.b2 a -g~llon price, while ~ortuguese dnvers were paymg a 7 3 percent fuel tax as their oil 1mpon-dependent nation's pre­mium gasoline pric,. climbed to 
S.2.95 a gallon from $2.49 a year ago. 



I' 
The Observer Friday,March21, 1980-page 15. 
W. Europeans leave decisions up to Olympic committees 

STRASBOURG, France (AP) · Britain and The Netherlands found no support yesterday from the rest of Western Eu­rope for a boycott of the Moscow Olympic Games. 
An overwhleming majority of the ministers and secretaries of state for sport, meeting under the aegis of the 21-nation Council of Europe, favored leaving the deciston to their national Olympic committees. 
They said their governments opposed making recommenda­tions to the committees until the approach of the May 24 deadhne for accept~g invita­tions to the Summer Games. 
The Netherlands' Secretary of State for Sport, C.G. Wallis de Vries, said he and hJ~s British counterpart, Hector Monro, were the only ministers who spoke in favor of a boycott. 
Sources said France took the lead in opposing anti-Soviet action, SJ;orts Mmister Jean­Pierre Sotsson arguing that it would be an intolerable inter­ference of politics in sport. 
Soisson originally opposed e­ven putting the boycott issue on the agenda, threatening to stay away from the meeting, sources said. Later he agreed to attend, provided the talks were discreet and given minimum publicity · a condition rejected by Britain and West Germany. 
De Vries said he warned his colleagues here that if they went to the Olympics while the Soviet Army was on Afghani­stan soil, they would be letting 
Soaringenergy costs maycreate jobs 
t for huinari laborers 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The 
soaring cost of energy may be 
prompting employers to return 
to an old means of production 
thar some government econo­
mists say is becoming cheaper 
than machines: human labor. 
Labor Department economists 
estimate thar up to 1 million 
jobs were created in 1979 
because businesses have found 
it economical to substitute la­
bor for energy-draining machi­
nery. 
Labor Secretary Ray Mar­
shall, a trained economist, has 
been promoting this theory, 
which has received either scant 
attention or skeptical res.l;'onses 
from most other economtsts. 
The theory suggests that de­
spite the jolts that the economy 
has suffered because of high 
energy prices, employment will 
remain healthier than conven­
tional forecasts of sharply ris­
ing unemrloyment this year. 
Marshal estimates that of 2 
million jobs created in 1979, 
between 750,000 and 1 million 
resulted from substituting la­
bor for energy, which rose 
more than 30 ·percent in price 
last year. 
"I am seeing it happen all over the country,' ' Marshall said. "If you reduce the speed limit to conserve fuel, you need more truck drivers. If you're putting in more insulation to keep from losing heat, you need labor to do it.'' 
Nancy Barrett, a deputy assis­tant secretary of labor, esti­mates based on the limited research done in this field that each 1 percent rise in the price of energy leads to an increase of about 33,000 jobs. 
She said this explains why unemployment has struck at 
at?out 6 percent since mid­
151'78, defying economic fore­
casts of between 6¥2 and 7 
percent unemployment by the 
end of 1979. Each 1 percent of 
unemployment equals about 1 
million people. 

Ms. Barrett says this trend also may be a main factor in last year's disturbing decline in productivity, which measures how efficiently goods and ser­vices are produced. President Carter's Council of Economic Advisors, however, rejects this conclusion . 
Marshall's theory does not 
mean that the workforce is actually larger because of high­er energy prices. The country's 200,000 laid off auto workers can vouch for that. 
Rather, labor-for-energy sub­stitution appears to cushion the harmful effects that rising e­nergy prices might otherwise have caused. For example, Ms. Barrett said, the rise in energy prices last year slowed econo­mic growth at a cost of 1 million conventional jobs. But that loss may have been fully offset by the iP.crease in ener­gy saving jobs. 
Hostages, guerillas request negottattons 
BOGOTA, Columbia (AP) . The Colombian government a­greed yesterday to a request from hostages and guerrillas in the Domimcan Republic Em­bassy to resume face-to-face negotiations, deadlocked for a week over the guerrillas' de­mand for the release of alleged political prisoners. 
The talks, first set for today, were postponed until Monday after Foreign Minister Diego Uribe Vargas met with Presi­dentJulio Cesar Turbay Ayala, diplomatic and government sources said. 
''At the request of the ambas­sadors held hostages and the chief of the terrorists, the Colombian government has a­greed to resume the negotia­tions,'' UribeVar._gas told repor­ters as he entered the presiden­tial palace. 
The foreign minister said he received the request Wednes­day in a telephone call from Ambassador Richard Valan, one of the 32 foreign diplomats and others held hostages. 
The request for new talks may signal the first major break since the M-19 guerrillas seized the embassy during a diploma­tic reception on Feb. 27. 
Galan called the foreign mini­ster less than 24 hours after Uribe Vargas stated on a na­tionwide radio and television broadcast that the government would not budge on its refusal to meet the guerrillas' "non­negotiable'' demand that 28 alleged political pcisoners be freed. 
In the broadcast, the govern­ment said reopening the talks indicated a softening of the M-19 position. However, there 
[continued on page 16] 
the Kremlin ''use sport for a very bad policy. Let's not forget that the Russians have crossed another country's border. " 
But he said he could under­stand other countries ''not wanting to take a decision too prematurely.'' 
De Vries said he had the feeling other countries might end up supporting a boycott. He pomted out that no country, not even France, had stated outright that it would attend the Games. 
But even those countries which the U.S. State Depart­ment had listed as publicly favoring a boycott-Norway and Luxembourg -i turned out to be undecided. 
And Sweden and Switn·rland, true to their neutrahst tradition, insisted that ~overnments even refrain from Issuing guidelines to their Olympic committees as they debated whether to attend the Games. 
Portugal is understood to sup­port a boycott. But it did not take the floor at yesterday's sesswn. 

BANG • THE ............ 
RUMSLOWL 

Sat. & Sun. 7, 9, 11 $1.00 Engineering Auditorium 
rr!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!l!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!ll!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!•!!!!l!!!!!!!!l••• 



f0uJr gpeciO~y COven-CBaked cAppQe cpattcakeg 
Our Specialty using fresh sliced apples topped with a sugar cinnamon glaze never·surpassed! 
U.S. 31 [Dlxlawayl North in Roseland (Across from Hoi day lnn]272-7433 Sun.· Thurs. 6A.M. to 9P.M. Fri. &Sat. 6A.M. to 10 P.M .. 
for great music and a great time ... r,OlL£GIAJt 

*** t980*** 
rf8TIV.Al~~\\ 
March 21 and ll 
STEPAN CENTER 
TICKETS:  all session pass $850  
($750 students)  
Friday  $5°0  

$250Saturday afternoon 
'$400
Saturday nite 
su ticket office 

-----------------------------------------------------~----~------~--~~----~---------------.~~--~ 
. ( 
The Observer Friday, March 21, 1980-page 16 
Hoosier inm.ate-explosion f
I 
forces prison renovation 
(AP) -Indiana prison officials, ent use, such as cells used for faced with an inmate population storage, and we will be pres­
'. that increased 21. 5 percent last sing every available bed into 
,, 
i. year and is still growing, are use. 
I.\ reoq~anizing procedures and The prison has been troubled ! . considering renovation to re­by several outbreaks of violence lieve overcrowding. the most recent when inmates 
The Indiana State Prison at held three guards hostage in Michigan City, about 40 miles March 1979 before releasing east of Chicago, was originally them unharmed when prison designed for 1,200 inmates. Its authorities agreed to dtscuss population is now 1,673, and their grievances. warden Jack Duckworth esti­At the reformatory, superin­
l . ' 
mates the facility can handle up tendent Norman Owens said 
to 1,72 5 inmates. two men might have to put in each cell if the population
The 1,300 inmates at the Indiana Reformatory at Pendle­continues to expand. 
''Any administrator would like. 
ton are about 200 more than officials would like to maintain. single bunks in all dormitories 
"At the present rate, we will (cells) and in the cell blocks,'' be at the capacity in a few Owen said. "This tends to1 months,'' Duckworth said of create less trouble." 
This student finds that homework is a great excuse to catch some rays. [photo by Tim 
the 19th Century state prison. A problem associated with 
' McKeogh] "We are identifying areas we overcrowding is the lack of jobs ' can rearrange from their pres-at both facilities. Prison offi­! cials say a job shortage pro­I ----motes idleness and increases
I ­
I 
the probability of violence.
Wmputer unreliable 
"As people don't have con­
SOMMER STORAGE SPACE 
structive activities in which to
) 
engage, it gives them too much
Special discoDDI lor ND 101d SMC students, 
in crisis ; runs amuck 
idleness, and this presents
~ 
management problems,'' Duck­
I 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The given area or situation. 
worth said.
259-0335
~ I 
worldwide computer system Wimex consists of 35 Honey­Larry Hembree, executive dir­
' 
built to warn the president of an well 6000-series computers at ector of Public Action in Correc­~nemy attack or international Military bases or in under­tional Efforts; said inmates
SeU Lock Storage ol M£1inley 
crisis is prone to break down ground vaults at 27 sites, have become ''sensitive'' tounder Jressure, according to connected by a complex net­
816East Mclinley 
~ro~in~ population at state
informe sources who have work of coding and decoding mstuuttons.
I 
worked on or examined the devices, ultra-sophisticated
I Mishawaka 
''They (inmates) said they are
-system. sensors and various processing putting beds everywhere andThe system already has failed machines. 
a's getting pretty crowded,"in at least two critical situa­However, according to the Hembree said. "It's getting
tions, the sources siad. General Accounting Office, strained, and some of themA team of government Wimex simply doesn't work (penal institutions) are kind of
get psyched for SPRING BREAK 
auditors concluded that the when it's need most. 
scary. " computers, considered a bar­And a Pentagon document Owens said the reformatory is
gain ·when they were installed defending the system said that considering reconverting oldnearly a decade ago, are fun­generally the "computers ren­buildings on the grounds todamentally deficient in design der effective support. The house inmates and i!litiating. a and cannot be used effectively principal exception occurs in program to manage mmates mfor military command purposes. crisis situation, when comman­small units.
The auditors say the penta­ders need quick answers to a
-admission$1.00 
"This will be very critical to
gon has spent $1 billion tryin~ broad range of possible que;;­
. " managin~ a large number of
to make its World Wide Mih­nons.
-in carroll hall smc 
inmates tf the populations con­tary Command and Control "That," said one congres­tinue to go up,'' he said.
System work, yet the system -sional expert, "constitutes and called Wimex -remains unac· admission that it can't performceptabley slow and unreliable. its primary mission.'' 
The manufacturer agrees the Though details are still clas­
sunday, march 23 
system doesn't work very well sified, sources said. Wimex 
, , • Colom,bia
but says it could be modified to computers "Crashed" during
matinees 1:00and 3:00 
improve its performance. the combined Navy, Marine· 
Defense Department officials Corps and Air Force operation
I 
privately acknowledge they [continued from page 15)
to free the crew of the American 
I 
have had repeated problems 
merchant ship Mayaguez after
I ) 
with the computer network, but it was captured off Cambodia in has been no sign the guerrillas
r------------------,
1 BRING IN THIS COUPON AND SAVE I they insist they can get by 1975. were willing to give up. The
' j without it when they have to. A Pentagon spokesman con­fifth round of face-to-face talks
~ ) James F. May, one of several terids that during the Mayaguez ended March 13 when both experts from industry brought incident the computers were sides said they would resume
:Bit Super Savings I i
in to survey Pentagon coml.'uter 
used very little and performed only_ when the other gave in. 
operations, told The Associated adequately. He added, howev­Officials at the U.S. Embassy
r ~j 
Press the Wimex system is "at er, that during another, uniden­said yesterday that American , 11 best very fragile.'' tified crisis about the same Ambassador Diego Asencio cal­And John H. Bradley, an time. the Wimex operator put led them Wednesday for the
J 
electronic engineer who helped off normal maintenance and the first time in five days. Asencio
! s20 FF !
I 
test the computer network dur­computers broke down. Super­is one of 13 ambassadors and ing its development, says he iors were told it would take 20 acting ambassadors reportedly
~' was fired after he went over his minutes to resume operations, inside occupied. embassy who 
) bosses' heads to warn the it actually took more than two had telerhoned their staffs White House that the president hours. · daily unti the talks broke off. 
}' !GLASSES!
J' 
shouldn't depend on Wimex to 
"It was aggravating," the The government of President
'I I I tell him of a Soviet attack. 
officer said, "but nobody got Julio Cesar Turbay Ayala, whoI I The Defense Department killed, nobody lost his head." has called the embassy occupa­
., says the President doesn't de­
An expert of the equipment tion the worst crises in Colom­
I I 
pend solely on Wimex because 
said, ''In general, the Wimex bia's 170 years of indepen­), I I there are two other, faster systems don't come back up. If dence, has offered to fly the 
systems designed to detect a
I you're down even for a second, guerrillas out of the country but
I I 
nuclear strike. However, a task 
thousands of transactions were not to meet their other de­
I For a limited time only, bring in this coupon and I force reporting to the presi­supposed to occur. In trying to mands, M-19 stands for Move­Office
I get $20 off any purchase of glasses. One coupon 1. dent's of Management determine what happened, you ment 19, referring to elections 
and Budget found that at least
li 1 per customer. Present coupon at time glasses are I have to determine what was on Aprill9, 1970, the guerrillas 
one of those "suffers frequent 
lost ... There are alternative de­claim were fraudulent.
I ordered. No other discounts applicable during I 
power interruptions due to elec­
signs that don't have this Colombian authorities have
ll 
term of this offer. trical , storm activity in Colora-problem.'' said they would not ransom thed
I I o. Asked how Wimex func­hostages, but would allow qther OPTICAL DEPARTMENT was
I Use your Wards Charg-AII. 1 The Wimex system de­tioned during the recent Sov~et countries with hostages in the
1 signed to warn the president 
military thrust into Afghams­embassy to pay ransom. The
r I I and military chiefs of an enerny tan, a Pentagon official replied fuerrillas originally requested
/, 
I.' 1 Quality, Value, Selection. 1 attack or security crisis such as simply: "Classified." Pressed 50 million for release of the 
I • the seizure of an embassy. The 
to say if his answer would be hostages, but apparently drop­I I system also should provide the same if the system had ped t~e. demand early in the 
up-to-date information about
I performed well, the same offici­negouauons.
U.S. forces and options in any 
al said, "I don't know."
!: t---~~l!_~!!1.:U}2!::2~---.! 



.r 
' t . . • ' \\' ( . ' I ' I
:¥''. , .· 1 r: 14·.~· ., )·1·~· ..... ' i
.-~or I ) -/ •• . /• . . 
.. . . . . • ~ ·. , i. .~· r; ~ , . ;t_ • , . . . • ,· .... ?-. ".• ' <: ... 
~ 
I iJ ': .. \ .. ~~.,,.. ···:'·.· ''" ....... " ............. '.. ) , ) I 
···············-····tTJ···;~ .
j ­

p 
4 -• 
-.. ... .. .... -.. .. • -• • • ,. 1o .. .. .. • .. • -• --~--c ­
.......................__ ......... 41..6-·----·------------------------·········-··-····--· "···--------#~ \~ 
' 
The Observer -Sports Friday, March 21, 1980-page 17 
...Devine 
[continued from page 20] 
"I like having people think I'm conserva­tive," he_ ~d!Dits. "Writers, players, other coaches;_u s JUSt not me ~o always be excited and ·car_ned aw~y. Sometimes people get the y.rrong tmpresston from that but I can't help lt. Usually the people who criticize my behavior are the people who don't know me very well but that's ok, too. I'm all for letting people believt­what they want about me." 
A ploy which often times works to his advantage when he decides to call a not-so­conservative trick play, or give a rare "fire-and­brimstone" pre-game talk. 
"You see," he chuckles, "by playing the role ofa deadhead conservative, I can surprise a rew people once in a while.·' 
. Yet _so~e people, sportswriters especially, hke to mttmate that maybe Devine just doesn't care. But that isn't the case at all as evidenced by the schedule he keeps. On Wednesday, for example, he left the office at 7:30 p.m., 
worked at home until 2 a.m. and was on the phone with assistant Brian Boulac shortly after seven the next morning. 
"I just like to pretend I don't care," he sighs. ''And if people want to criticize me for that, fine. Now if a writer that I really know and respect said something bad about me then 
that would hurt me deeply.  And if one of my  
players said I didn't care,  I'd quit  this  job  
tomorrow.  

"You see, my basic coaching philosophy hinges on being myself. If I were to offer any advtce to a young man starting out in this business, I'd say just be yourself. '' 
The 55-year old Devine has lifetime statistics of 164-54-8 and stands third in the NCAA in total triumphs. He''S been in the winning locker room, at every major bowl game as either an assistant or a head coach and he's been honored with seven post-season all-star head coaching assignments. . 
"Hey," he says with a wink. "Just between you and I, I really do care." 
' 'Visions and Dreams' ' 
Scenes from_ eight pJays by' Fal8taff in a fit of melanchol~ Shakespeare wtll be interpreted over old age, and the S_(>Urned through dance by the Southold Ophelia dnfting through msani­Dance_The~ter this Sunday, at 3 ty to death. p.m.,·~ Sa~nt Mary's O'Laugh-The scenes, used in "Visions lin Audttonum. The program, and Dreams · were selected titled ''Visions and Dreams,'' and edited by Dunn in conjunc­will be performed with another tion with Professor Paul Rath­piece, "The Firebird." burn, who teaches Shakesptar-
Actors will read lines from ean courses ar Notre Dame. the plays as Ann Dunn and Shakespeare's words will be Marcia Heintzberger dance to a interpreted at Sunday's perfor­collage of music. The plays mance by Ron and Linda J aco­frcm which scenes have been by. drawn include' A Midsummer Tickets are $2.50 for students Nzght's Dream, Hamlet,. Mac-and senior citizens, and $5 for beth, and Richard III. general admission, and are 
available at the door or mav be
Among the characters who . 
come to t:fe through dance are purchased in advance at the Lady Macbeth urging her hus-O'Laughlin boJ< office, the Cen­band on to murder, Sir John tury Center box offic~. (•f
Buttons and Bows stores. 

• . . Iowa 
There were "upsets" galore, The Big Ten's dominance in 
johndenver 
[continued from page 20] and the three teams taht didn't postseason play has become a get postseason bids can brag of tradition. Indiana won the 1976 concertin the round 
Virginia in the championship beating the top squads: last­NCAA tide by defeating Michi­• game Wednesday. place Northwestern toppled gan, and last year Michigan appeanng Purdue, Wisconsin downed State bumped off Indiana State
"We have two teamds still 
alive (in the NCAA), and I Ohio State and Michigan State for the NCAA crown while saturday, april 26th whipped Iowa. Indiana won the NIT at the
personally felt that there might expense of Purdue.
be a third one,'' Olson said. ''I lottery will be held
''What happened last year
thought Ohio State had the best shot of any of us to get in," but with Michigan State and India­sun. ntar.23rd
''We'vefelt all along na and this year certainlythe Buckeyes lost a 72-68 
indicate that this is the best
semifinal to UCLA. 8:00pm
that the Big Ten was the conference in America,'' said ''There have been some great Olson. Iafortune ballroom (Big TEn) teams involved in the 
toughestbasketball 
limit 10tickets per ID
tournaments andsome awfully goods teams in the other three that didn't make it," said conference in America.'' 
tickets go on sal~ this 
Olson, referring to Wisconsin, 
Buy 
monday at 9:00am in the
Michigan State and Northwes-. 
The Big Ten schools had such 
student union ticket office
tern. 
a habit of knocking each other 
Observer 
off that when Olson was asked 
IOACC·
The Big Ten season was a if he was surprised at thebrutal one, and the league title outcome of a particular game,wasn't decided until the last he replied, ''I'm suprised atgame of the season when anybody winning anyplace." _Indiana beat Ohio State. 

Sports Briefs_ _____, 
Curispaces Schwenk 's upset 
<;:atheri!le Curis scored 12 points last night as Schwenk's Swtft Swtshers (9-3) upset previously undefeated Blue ~ave, 24-20, in the champtc,nship game of the SMC mtermural league. The Blue Wave (11-1), which had beaten Schwenk's by two points in ove:time earlier in the season, were lea~ by the floor leadershtp of Amy Mor'"tS. 
In the consolatton game, the Cager Commandoe~ ea~ily defeated the Smucks, 37-23, for third place. 
Friday, March 28
Judo club attends Invitational 
CUp this coupon and mail to: Century Center, South Bend 
Four members of the ND-SMC judo club attended the Kalamazoo Annual Invitational Tournament last Saturday. 
J4 
Public ,------------------------,
Mark Kuntavanish. the club's president, and Grace 
TElEvisioN ~ I want to be there for the EVENING OF WINE TASTING ~ 
Romzick each took third place. Tina Schifani and vice-president Diane King took fifth i.1 their respective 
P.O. Box 34 1 Name 1 weight classes. The club's instructor, black belt Charles 
South Bend, IN 46624 I 1 Hooks, took second in the heavyweight competition. 
Addre~----------------------------------------­
orca11(219)674-59611 I
Kutavanish commended the club's improvement and said 
--------1 City State Zip 1
it was due to the expert instruction of Hooks. Tickets may also I I 
Please reserve for me: (tickets will be held for you at the door) I 
be purchased at the I 1
IUtrack coach critical 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) -Indiana University track 
following locations: II wine tasting tickets at ' 750 each (G:30-B:30 pm) I 
wach Sam Bell was listed in critical condition Thursday Kings Cellar ____ hot hors d"oeuvres tickets at J2.50 each additional ( 5:30-6:30 pm) lfter suffering a heart attack earlier in the week, doctors All Outlets 1 1 said. Stagt Deli I 0 My check is enclosed I 
The 52-year-old Bell was in the intensive care unit at Downtown South Bend 1 1 Bloomiqgron Hospital undergoing treatment ~or what a I 0 Mastercharge No. exp. date 1 university spokesman described as a "masstve" heart Channel 34 Office 
100 Center 1 I
attack suffered Tuesday night. 0 Visa No. exp. date Bell has coached the Hoosiers to 12 Big Ten champion-Century Center I I ship in cross country, indoor and outdoor track. Downtown South Bend I In the amount of _ I 
'....... .''''.. .'.············-------L.-------------~.;.,;,;.;.;.,;.;,;_.;.;~.;1'
' t • 

.' 



-~-~ ----~-­
• 
The Observer -Sports Friday, March 21, 1980-page 18 
I I I 
I I 
r : 
;
, 
,! 
) 
f I 
' ; 
' i} 
j 
i 
j 
J 
I 
! 

Molarity 



~e Daily Crossword 
© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 


MAN AND WOMAN 
SPECIAL OFFER 
Free Redken Shampoo and Conditioner With any haircut $3sovalue ~EDKE·N (GOODTHRUMARCH31 
HOURS 
MON,TUE,WED ONLY) 

Mon~ 8:1/l.&; ()() Thurs. 8:.30-8:30 lfo' an Appolntm•nt,l 
Tues. 8 30-~ ·u) Fri. 8 30-6 30 
wed. s 30-6Jo .sat. 8oo..... oo Call 234-6767 
Interhall
by Michael Molinelli 

title game changed 

Sunday evening's scheduled men's interhall basketball championship game (Divi­sion A) has been movt.:d to 8· 
p.m. on Monday. The do-or-die clash between Grace and How­ard will be played in the ACC pit.. 
Irishface Oshkosh, ISU 
by Jim Mc0.ure/Pat Byrnes · 
The Notre Dame tennis team 

..... • 
... 
ACROSS  28  Deliver an  
1  Clergyman  address  
7  Fine table  29  Marine fish  
linen  31  Combina­ 
13  Predican:~ent  tions of  
14  Soon  musical  
16  Moment  tones  
17  Mobile home  32  Used to be  
18  Year: Sp.  33  Menagerie  
19  Antelope of  34  Frankness  
India  38  TV tuning  
21  River in  device  
Scotland  43  Bay window  
22  Venture  44  Manage  
24  Spring  45  On earth  
bloom  46  Bedouin  
25  Ready to  garments  
eat  47  Hominy  
26  Modified  48  Norse  
plant  explorer  
27  Indigo  49  Floor cover  
arena 37 -Plaines 


Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
50 Moslem 23 Anglo-Saxon 
rulers letter 53 Small deer 25 Certain 54 Law mail cen­57 Fame ter: abbr. 59 Continental 27 Jewish 
area month 60 Chants 28 Footwear 61 Learned 30 Military 
person truant 62 Relatives 31 Variety of 
cabbage DOWN 33 Dirigible 1 Ship's 34 Not fine 
longboat 35 Trailing 2 Non-winner plant 3 Clique 36 New York 4 Govt. agent border 5 Sports river 
6 Rungs of 38 Several a rope 39 Guevara ladder 40 Wordly 
7 Detachment 41 Firebirds of troops 42 Popular 8 Architec· school tural ridge period 9 -culpa 44 Attacked 10 Mohammed's 47 Gown 
son-in-law material 11 Army man 51 Indian 12 Protection princess 
for a bas­52 Flock of ketball mallards player 55 Hebrew 
13 Crown letter 15 People of 56 Country Athens monogram 20 Broad smile 58 Fabled bird 
---------------------------.
! PINOCCHIO'SI 
I Pizza Parlor 1
I . --G.eorgetown Shopping Plaza J 
!ANNIVERSARYSPECIALI 1coupon : buy one large pizza I (&getthe second for~'h price!! 
.-goodthru·March, 1980only-.rJn I :-one coupon per pizza, please-;il 
IHAPPY HOUR Wide Screen TV '·I 
I 4-6pm Cleveland Rd. ,...., 
IMonday thru Friday ~ 
JWedeliver-277-4522. I 
1 lt'scoming,March 17! I
---------------------------J 
hopes to extend its three-match winning streak this afternoon when the Irish take on visiting Wisconsin-Oshkosh at 3 p.m. Tomorrow afternoon, the team will be back in action against powerful Indiana State. That match will begin at 1 p.m. Both matches will be played at Notre Dame's Courtney Tennis Cen­ter, weather permitting. Oth­erwise, the teams will move to the Lafayette South Racquet Club in South Bend. Seating is provided and admission is free . 
...Crum 
[continued from page 20) 
Against Iowa, 23-8, Crum said he isn't planning anything special, because his team is so young. 
Of the top seven players only one -All-American guard Dar­rell Griffith -is a returning starter. The other six include a fr:sh~an, four sophomores and a JUlllOr. 
''With a young team, you have to concentrate on doing what you do and not on what the other team does,'' Crum said. · "If you practice against the other team's plays, you get into the game and start thinking about what they are doing, instead of what you are sup­posed to be doing," he said. 
But Crum is not ignoring Iowa either. 
''They are a lot like Memphis State," Crum said of Iowa. "But they are bigger and have better players, Iowa will be tough for anybody to beat." 
That is something that the 43-year old coach has been 

trymg to impress on his team. "I've caught these guys living in the past,'' he said. 
"They've·been watching vid­eotapes all week, but guess which games -Kansas State, Texas A&M, and LSU. I said, 'Look, fellas, ifyou can't afford to go to the movies, watch videotapes. But do you mind watching Iowa?' They're not old enough to understand.'' 
He is a former assistant coach under UCLA's Johnny Wooden and having taken a Louisville team to the NCAA finals three times before, Crum understands the pressure his team is under. 
Or does he? 
"Pressure? There's no pres­sure on me. We could lose both games and I wol!ld still c feel good,'' Crum said. 
''If someone told me we'd do this with four sophomores and a senior after losing (starting center) Scooter McCray, I'd have said, 'You are sick. My name's Tucker, not Sucker.' " 

'fhe Observer -SportsBoard Friday, March 21, 1980 -page 19 
•
Kansas City 12 Pittsburgh 11 
Houston 12 Cincinnati 5 
Atlanta 6 los Angeles 1
Hockey Basketball Baseball 
meeting for 
St. louis 3 Montreal 1 
Observer
NBA
NHL Exhibition Seattle "A" 6 California 5 San Diego 5 Cleveland 2
Cleveland 109 Houston 96 
• 
Night &litors 
Chicago (A) 3 Boston 2
Boston 124 Detroit 106 Texan 11 Baltimore 6Atlanta 8 St. Louis 4 
Washington 119 Philadelphia Chicago (N) 10 Milwaukee 8
Toronto 4 New York (N) 2. 11
Toronto 3 Philadelphia 0 113 (OT) San Francisco 8 Oakland 2 
Sunday 7:30
innings
Quebec 6 Colorado 2 
Kansas City 121 Denver 105 Seattle "B" 12 Arizona State 4
Philadelphia 10 Detroit 4 
All Classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ao is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail.
Classifieds 
guished acquaintance. Hope that t~e show the Holy Grall. What Is yourNeed ride to Lafayette, ln., March 27 feeling is mutual. Have fun th1s favorite color? Aquamarine, No! 
or 28. Call Ed 1820. 
weekend with Angie. Blue. Ahaagh ...saa the holy grail The Woman from Regina 2N tonight. Eg. Auditorium 7,9, 11. 
Notices Personals 
Wanted: Need a ride to St. Peters-
P.S. You really are getting more ---------------­
Off-Campus Jocks! burg, Fla. Will share expenses. Happy Birthday, Rosemary 
handsome by the minute! Find out WHERE THE BOYS ARE
Any men or women interested in Please call SMC 5480. "MOM" 
"' Sunday in Carrr..ll Haii-SMC.
playing on the off-campus softball, 
--------------Roseann Enyedy­
soccer, or tennis teams, please call Need ride to Pittsburgh for break. Can Vote for Ralph Jaccodine--Keenan Welcome back from the hospital! Now Girls:
Kathy at 233-6229. leave any time. Will share expenses. Hall Pres. BP Hall does! 
it's time to study. Call Damian "Macho" Dolan tomor­.. ---------------Chris 3127. Louise, Art, and Michael row. Wish him a happy birthday an
Professional typing, reasonable rates. Igloo, ask him how it feels to eat a bush.
291-0495. Experience typing thesis, Help!! I am in dire need of a ride to Please don't thaw without me. 
Rosemary-­
jour1,1al articles. Boston for break. Can leave any time. Happy Spring 
Happy Birthday! Hope you have a Hi O'Shag!
Will share. Fun guaranteed. Call 
terrific day. Wall
Morrissey Loan Fund Beth 41-4140. An Tostal staff meeting!! Sunday 
Beth
Last day for undergrads to apply is March 23rd, 7:00 p.m. Lafortune My sister had a great time. Thanks
March 26. Need ride to Florida for spring break. Theatre. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANNELLIOTT* boyz and girlz.
Will share expenses. Please call Sara 
BIG 22nd girl. xo
Have typewriter--will type term pa­7952. Brenda Dugan, 
Love, Big CSN girls GLEN NO 
pers, manuscripts, etc. 287-0892. You are adoll. Why don't you try an Need ride to Tampa, Fla. for spring Italian? 
For an evening to laughs with Barbra Vote Ken Stack UMOC.
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND break. Will share driving and expen­Mr. Chips Stralsand and Omar Shariff coma seaALL LOANS PREVIOUSLY DUE ON ses. Please call Christian 272-7987. 
FUNNY GIRL* Frl, 3/21 & Sat MBBand BS.
APRIL 7 WILL BE DUE ON APRIL 8. Sharon, 
3/22-7,9,11 p.m. Carroll Hall SMC Did you t.we a good time last
Scintillating conversationalist needs Please reconsider. 
weekend? Too bad you missed the
Typing Plus: Term papers, theses, ride to Canton, Oh. or Gen. vicinity Joe 
Tonight formal.
dissertations. Light editing, ghost for break. Can leave after Thurs. 
ST. Patty's Day party. Knights ofwriting. Literary search, bibliogra­morning. Share usual. Joe 3598. Dear Bill S. 
Columbus Hall, 9:00 p.m. Refresh­Anne, Bob, Carol, Celanine, Linda,
phies, genealogies. Job resume Good luck on elections! 
ments and dancing. All ladles of Marcia, Mary, Paul, Rob, Scott, Sue,
service. Sliding rate scale based on Desperately need ride to Ft. lauder­cc ND·SMC community Invited. A and Theresa.
lead time. Special discounts on full dale area for spring break. Will share 
Howard Hall production. Thanks for all the support March contracts for theses and dissertations. driving and costs generously. Call Dear Abusee, 
12th.
Aardvark t\utomatic Solutions/ P.O. Steve 1428. Happy 19th B-Day! 
Dear Rose. Love you all, SKATE
Box 1204/ 46624/phone 219-289-6753. Abuser 
Happy Birthday! We love you.
Need ride to NYC for break. Call Janet 
Midge, Cowboy, Buford, Daniel, and To my favorite Smick chick,
Will do typing. Call 287-5162. Neat, 41-4700. • Dear Tank, 
Pitty Happy Birthday Mary Eileen. 
accurate. I'd love to penetrate your armor on 
Love, Janie
Desperate! Need ride to Northern your 19th B-Day: TODAY! 
Happy Birthday Tom.
Professional typist. IBM Selectric II. N.J. right off 1-80. Must leave BEAST 
Love, Sue Coma gat psyched for spring break.
Business and academic experience. Monday or Tuesday (25th). Share Sunday in Carroll Haii-SMC.
272-3134. usual. Call Mike 7289. Be Be, Hey RCM,
· To years of frisbees and formals that 
Happy birthday to an almost ex­Timmy Lacrosse,Mar-Main Pharmacy at 426 N. Michi­Need ride to New Orleans for break. never end. I love you!
fl.. 
(editor, silly)_ We 'II celebrate right Good luck this weekend. 
gan, cashes personal checks for stu­Call Rick 7695. Refugee 
next weekend. A fan forever (despite your foolishdents with an ND/SM C I. D. 
The Digger Phelps fan club pride).
Need ride to NYC, Conn. for break. Daggers.Typing done in my home. University Leave Wed, p.m. Pay $40. Jay 8894. Let's listen to Springsteen and 
Who is Digger Phelps? Brenna Baynard-­
Park Mall area. Call between 8 am together we 'II watch the snow melt. 
Happy birthday to a fellow Uni
and 7 pm at 277-3085. Wanted: ride to/from N.Y.C. or 
lsn 't he the hockey coach? graduate!
vicinity Will share driving and $$$. Color Basketball pictures still avail­
Uni Pep
Can leave after 2 p.m. on 3/26. Call able. Slam dunks make great decora­
MARY GERARD--Have a happy
Tom 1155. tions. Call 8932. 
birthday--from your roommate who Deirdre Murphy:
-lost&Found 
thinks you should be "laked" today! Please submit...
Naad riders to N.Y. metro. Leaving Spot supports--smash!!-Mr. Hands 
Your secret admirerMonday, March 24. Curt, 234-0467. supports Mr. Bill for UMOC. 
RAIN BOW--l feel sorry for poor.
Lost: Black leather wallet containing 
demented people like you! Maureen Glynn-
I. D., Driver's license, and five bucks. Need ride to Milwaukee for break. He's unfriendly, malicious, obnoxious, 
Go Braugh-Lass, Happy 20th.
Whoever fin as 1£ can keep the money, Can leave after 12:00 Thursday. Katie and crass. Joe Trednor for UMOC. 
Math Students of the world, unital Ellen and Jeanbut please, please return the wallet. 8142. 
We can overcome the bourgeois
Call 4625. WANTED: IRISH BAND FOR AN domination of the Math Department. Mrs. Maureen "Chalk",Please help me get a tan in sunny TOSTAL FRIVOLITIES. IMME· Let us rise up against ritualistic Happy 20th!! Hope you have a goodLost: Week's laundry, 190049, taken Lauderdale. Can leave Thursday, DIATELY CALL: KEVIN 287-4635, indoctrination. Let us rise up against time "normally distributing" yourfrom St. Michael's last Wed, 3/12. March 27, noon or after. Will share MURPH 7821. 
the capitalistic hoards of functions, partying. You'll be good target
Please call Ed at 6863. driving, expenses, and conversation. 
derivatives, and integrals! Wa shall market for the beer makers for sure.
Beth 1344. 
beat out sllderules into plowshares; Eleanor AquitaineFound: one male N D class ring '80 on Need ride to D.C. Can leave Monday 
our protractors lntc pruning forks!
North Quad. Call 7047 or 233-6370 to Need ride to Minnesota for break. Can night. Call Karen 8163. 
Revolution means victory! Paid for by Everybody,
identify. Ask for George. leave early. 8268. 
the committee to put vice back into •he I'm tired. But that won't stop me 
.· ~ 
Kelly, Vice-Presidency. from getting blown away.
Lost: one silver earring, SMC Sat. Need ride to Phlla/S. Jersey for break. 
This past week has been heaven!! Happy Jack
night. Call 4611 at SMC. Call 6446. 
Looking forward to meetin9 you in the Mary-Sue Gerard, 
Engineering Building ton1ght. Also Happy Birthday to my favorite To the Exclusive Happy Hour gang: 
I
Lost: Pair of brown suede gloves in Need rider to New Orleans for break. 
looking forward to having a crazy and freshman. Memorial gathering for "Old Clint" .
room 110or Hurley Bldg. on March 12. 
Call 288-1376.
:l .• wild time with you. The Gambler Friday 3:30, 110--Procession to
Call Brian 272-7684. 
Goose's Memorial Home. Eulogy and
Need ride to Iowa Falls [N. of Cedar 
Passionately Happy 19th birthday to beautiful Mary other services will be held at 110 after
Lost: SMC class ring. SMM & BSN Rapids! or anywhere near there. Will 
1
"Tank" Gerardi! ' 10:30. In lieu of gifts: make checks
Tne big guy from Boston
'81 on inside. Lost behind ACC. Call help wfth $$$. Call Jim 1195. 
payable to FUBAR. Be there. Aloha.
Sharon 41-4295. 
Spend an evening with Barbra .Lost: ----------------one pair of dark men's Need ride to Mason City or Fort Stralsand and Omar Shariff In FUNNY Happy belated birthday to Maggie
Repeat of the party at Huffman's in 
301 Campus View Saturday night.
~ ,. 
Dodge, lA vicinity for break. Call Double keggar with all the works GIRL* Fri. and Sat. in Carroll Hall Co en! Big I 20! All of you guys can
'£ 
;. sunglasses. I believe I lost them 
Charlie at 8923. including a Beach Boys extravaganza!! SMC. stop by 401 Badin for your freeSun, March 9 in Post Office. Please birthday kisses, or call 8014 to wishLast to before
call John 232-7725. chance ~o ZOOEY 
break. Be there!!.! Guys! Send your birthday hugs and her well.
----------------For Sale Wow!
kisses to MARY at 256 Badin.
Lost: Blue backpack with Accounting 
-----·-·--------·-·-----Vote Ralph Jaccodina for Keenan Hall
and Chern books in it taken from 
GIRL FROM THE COLLEGE, Maureen in Holy Cross, President.
Dining Hall on Friday, March 14. Call 
1972 VW Sedan--orange rebuilt en­STUDYING ON THE Thanx for the personal. What's at
1421. 
----------------
gine. Radial tires, rear window def., FIRST DAY OF SPRING Ill 7DT florist? Hey losers, AM stereo radio--24,500 mi. on en­CLOSE II FT DFlorists Did you repeat?! Let's hope not!
Lost: N D class ring. Engraved inside 
gine--$1250. Call Greg--work 277-0703 [YOU MUST !lE TIRED II Fallow Losers
MJK '81. Please call Mike 8436.
; ~ ' ''· 
Home 683-7303. THE MAN WHO NEVER SLHPS Ready, aim, fire! It's Mary's B-Day.
----------------
Call her at 6953.Founo: Paper sack containing j~cke.t, Rosemary-
in structures, March 19. ldent1fy m 1975 VW Beetle. Like new. Radio, Dan Snow, --------·---·-----l'd bake you a cake but I don't have
defrost, low mileage, regular gas. Laur~.
It's been six years since I last saw an oven. I'd take you out to dinner,
Observer office. 
$2900 or best offer. Call after 7 pm, For weeks I thought break would
----------------you in Colorado. Welcome to ND! but I don't have any money. I would
277-0339. never come. Now I can't wait till it's
We'll show you how to party Huffman even just sit and talk, but I have thrP.e
Lost: Class ring engraved MJK '81. If gone. Happy hur!. 1 i; Arkansas!
found, please call Mike 8436. ---------------and Notre Dame style! tests and two papers due before
Technics 35-watt receiver $140, KLH The Diehard F-1: ~-l< yton 
spring break. Let's just say I owe you300 speakers $80. Call John 1801. Johnson, ----------.• -----something. Any Ideas? Have a great
Here's your very own NO personal. Claude Renshaw:
--------------birthday'
Got a blank space on your wall? Fill it I'll take Sally, Your huggable ac~.ou .tC'nt is on her 
Markwith color basketball action photos. You take Sue way. All players, all sizes. Cheap. Not You'll walk down the aisle
Need riders to Green Bay area for 
available from Ronco or K-Tel. Call While I sit in the pew Grohi-­
break. 287-0422 Chrissy. Kiddo,
8932. Meyor Bruder? May a "Lance" walk into your life 
I thought that honesty was the best
-------·---------------
Harold the 1st day of your 2nd decade!
on
Wanted: Ride to Buffalo! For this --------------policy. You agreed, remember?
Remington SR 101 single element P.S. Have a good time here. Hope you Have a wonderful E-day!
weekend, March 21 or any other. Call Kiddo
typewriter wide carriage. New $700, don't feel like you got screwed. Love, LMK
Lisa at 8144. 
233-6208. 
~--------------­
What Is your name? ---------------­
"~·... --------------To Mr. Bob Wail (the Yalie): Fighting Irish
Need one way ride to Nashville for -------------~-­
We are pleased to make your distln-• W,atef Polo_~ What is_ your, quefl? 10. ,_.,-"'-.....~>. 3-•• ~ · _
.•.J. ..
break. CaU~Izo... . -"-·..1....... + ...... • • ....~~_._.L . • .. .. . . ." ... 
.

' . .. \ t ( ~ \ \ I I I I I I o • ~ \ I ' 
' • ' .; : t ' ' • t • • • • • 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ I • I ' ' 




• 
f 
• 
I, 
I 
~ ~ 
'I 
I 
'I 
I t I i 
I l 
I )
I. 
I 
I 
I 
I 
~ 
I 
I 
I 
Il 

', 
I 
~ 
I 
I~
; I 
\ 
. -----;
l r-­
~pring grid report 
1
l Devine delays startofdrills 
It appeared to be a beautiful day to open spring football drills. The sun was shining brightly, helping the temperature reach into the middle fifties. Nevertheless, yesterday's scheduled opening day for Notre Dame spring football drills was cancelled. 
Despite the somewhat-unseasonable warm weather, the grounds at Cartier Field are not quite thawed out. The frozen patches of earth forced the football coaching staff to 'lleet and temporarily suspend all sprin8 football activity. 1n f~ ·t, there is a good chance that nothmg will commence until after Easter break, due to the number of mid-term exams next week. 
Irish coach Dan Devine did accomplish something yesterday, however. He signed Greg Golic, brother of former Irish linebacker Bob, to a letter of intent. Golic, a 6-7, 242-pound tackle from Cleveland's Saint Joseph High School, becomes Notre Dame's 26th grid recruit this year. 
Iowa Coach Olson 
singspraises ofBig Ten 
lOW 1\ CI1Y, Iowa (1\.P) ­When Coach Lute Olson isn't ~inging the praises of lo•va basketball, he's gald to talk about the gloric~s of the t•ig Ten. 
"We've felt all along that the Big Ten was the toughc~st basketball ct>nference in Ame­r-ica,'' said the man whose team plays LouisvJle Saturday in the ~CAA semifinals at Indianapo­
i 
l 
liS. 
"It's been that way for a number of years. It's only b<:en 
since the expanded tournament field that people have found out how tough the confe renee is '' Seven Big Ten teams got posrseason tournament bids this year -the most from any conference tn the country. The closest competitors were the Atlantic Coast with six entries and the PAC 10 with five. t 
The top fc.ur finishers in the Big Ten -Indiana, Ohio State, Purdue, and Iowa -were invited to the NCAA tournament, while Minnesota, Michigan and Illi­
I i noise went to the NIT. I Purdue and Iowa are in the· ; 
I. NCAA semifinals, along with the PAC 10's UCLA and Louis­ville of the Southeast Confe renee. 

The NIT final four also includ­ed two Big Ten teams ­~innesota and Illinois -along with the ACC' s Virginia and Nt>vada-Las Vegas · an independent. Minnesota bumped off Illinois to meet 
[continued on page 17] 
Believe it or not, Devine cares 
In anything as transient as a university community the patterns of change are a wistfully accepted way of life. Freshmen grow up to become sophomores, juniors become seniors and, at Notre Dame, seniors turn into card-carrying, money-giving alumni, complete with green hats, leprechaun neckties and two tickets to every football game but U.S.C. That's why they never make soap operas about college life. Everything happens too fast. 
Dan Devine has spent the greater part of his life involved with all of it--26 of his 30 years in coaching have been at the college level so he's had some time to observe the changes. 
''Oh, the environment is different around colleges today," he ponders. "But the important element, the kids, are basically rhe same. I have this notion, although sometimes it appears a bit naive, that a coach is a teacher. At least I like to believe that's my primary role. When I was at Missouri, they granted me a full professorship complete with academic tenure.'' 
And he likes what he's teaching. 
"I have fun coaching football," he smiles. "I love my job 1d I love the people I work with. In fact, the thing I enjoy most is getting to talk to my players and help them through problems boLh on the field and off. It isn't easy being a coach1 but it's very rewarding." 
And the rewards don't rest exclusively in the myriad of plaques and trophies that adorn the plaid-papered walls (blue and green plaid, what else?) of Devine's tastefully-appointed office. On one wall there's a plaque proclaiming him a Cavanaugh Hall Fellow; on another is the momento that marks his being named the National Football League's Coach and Man of the Year. He's got game balls and game photos and game paintings and even a congressional proclamation that ''officially'' made Notre Dame the number one football team in 1977. However, he h::ts little trouble selecting the most meaningful piece in the collection. 

Frank LaGrotta 
"You could.have everything in this office but the game balls and this,'' he says, holding a plaque that hangs right next to the door which reads: 
"To Dan Devine and the Fighting Irish Thanks for never giving up The Notre Dame Student Body'' 
''They gave me this after we lost to Southern Cal two years ago in that comeback in the Coliseum,'' he points out proudly. ''It means an awful lot to me. '' 
And it's one of the reasons he's as excited about this year's spring practice as he was the first time he stepped on a football field with a whistle. 
''I love it,'' he says. ''But you have to love it because if you don't the pressures and problems will get to you.'' 
That's something else he's familiar with-­pressures and problems. You see, one does not follow a legend like Vince Lombardi at Green Bay without feeling the pressure. One does not take over for someone like Ara Parseghian at a place like Notre Dame without much more of the sam~. Yet he willingly accepted both positions with equal aplomb. Why? The answer rests in another aspect of Dan Devine's personality that most people never see. "I guess I like pressure," he grins. "In fact, you might say I thrive on it." 
Which comes as a surprise to someone first observing his almost sleepy mild manner and passive, soft-spoken ways. 
[continued on page 17] 
1Fuzzy-cheeked'frosh key UCLA 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Larry · another move by Brown, mov­
Brown is used to working with the professionals so it came as a surprise when the first-year coach of the UCLA Bruins came up with fuzzy-cheeked fresh­men in his backcourt. 
He truly did trv not to do it. It 
wasn't his original idea. 
Brown started with lettermen sophomores Tony Anderson and Tyren Naulls at the guard spots. 
Then Rod Foster and Michael Holton began taking control with Foster the shooter and Holton setting up the offense for the young Bruins, who barely made it into the NCAA tournament after finishing fourth in the Pacific-10. 
The guards set things up but ing 6-foot-6 Mike Sanders to the high post despite his lack of size put the Bruins on their winning way. 
They've lost only three times since that switch. 
Looking forward to meeting Purdue in the semifinals of the NCAA championships, the Bruins can look back on their domination of the tourney in the past 15 years, with 10 champ­IOnships between 1964 and 1975. 
Those were the John Wooden teams but nobody expected Larry Brown, in his first season and without a conference champion, to come close. Yet in the playoffs, the Bruins beat Old Dominion, DePaul, Ohio State and Clemson to reach the 
:::::-:::=:==-"-------· · ··-·=======::.:.:::.:-=~-:_ ---~·=··-~-==·=-.-_=-:.·-:-_-_-_-=-=~:==--= ·--=-=-=================from New Britain, Conn., is 
-m plans nothm·g new -'or Iowa
Cru 11 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP) ­Louisville Coach Dennv Crum has revealed his secret plan for defeating Iowa in Saturday's NCAA semifinal basket ball game at Indianapolis. 
' 'We're not. going to do anything different," Crum said after a recent l?ractice. "If you can't win by domg what got you where you are, then you can't win at all.'' 
The Cardinals got where they are by conbining a blistering full-court press with a fast­break offense. Their 31-3 record attests to the success of Crum's strategy in his ninth year at Louisville. 
"We want to make the other teams play the full 94 feet for the entire game," he said. 
''Very few teams have been able to keep up with us." 
Part of Crum' s rationale for using the press is that ''with our size and youth we'd get killed if we didn't force the other teams to play our style." 
However, Crum admits that that style of play has also caused some/roblems for the second-ranke Cardinals. 
"We are a quick, explosive team that plays with a lot of enthusiasm. But the constant press causes spurts,'' Crum said. 
Those spurts showed up dramatically in Louisville's NCAA Midwest Region victor­ies. Two of the games ended in overtime. 
Kgainst Kansas State in its first tournament game, Louis ville squandered a 61-54 lead with 7:44 remaining to force an overtime with the score 67-67. The -Cardinals won 71-69 on a last-second shot. 
In the second round against Texas A&M, Louisville out­
scored the  Aggies  13-2  in  
overtime  to  pull  out  a  66-55  
victory.  

And against Louisana State in the Midwest Championship game, Louisville trailed by as many as eight points in the first half. In typical Cardinal fash­ion, they spurted to a 31-29 advantage at halftime, and went on to win, 86-66. 
[continued on page 18) 
semifinals group of four. 
"I always felt we had a future, but I didn't know when the future would be," said Brown Tuesday. "I feel very good that people continue to come to look at UCLA and they have seen the improvement we continued to exhibit this year. 
"I've told my kids to feel good about what they have accomplished this year, but now that we've made the Final Four, we should go after it, because I've always believed in this team, all year long. 
"I want them to appreciate what they have accomplished, but I want them to go out and play the way they are capable of playing.'' . 
Freshman Foster is the high­er scorer with an 11.4 average, while Holton is at 5.2. Foster, 
quick and able to get the fast
break away like lightning. 
=================-==----­
Bookstore sign -ups 
Registration for the 1980 Bookstore Basketball Tourna­ment will take place this Sun­day, March 23, from 1 to 3 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom, according to fetiring commis­sioner Leo Latz. A re~-istration fee of $2 will be collected at this time and two captains from eac;h team must be present at registration. Any Notre Dame student, faculty or staff q:tem ber is eligible to participate, but there is a limit for three football players permitted on each team. Latz stresses that there is a 320 team limit for the tourna· ment, so it is advisable to register on Sunday. 










