· .. Draft -page 3 
------------------------------------··-~------~----~------·---···-----------~------------­

VOL. XIV,N0.70 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's FRIDAYJANUARY 25, 1980 
SU recofllfllends discontinuation of Mid-west Blues Festival· 
by Tom jackman leges envy us-the Sophomore come. Senior StaffReporter Literary Festival, the Midwest Student Union Director Tom Blues Festival, the Collegiate Hamel, who will also advise 
Student Union officials confir­Jazz Festival-there's nothing that the Blues Festival be med last night that they would else like it anywhere...Despite eliminated, noted that at this recommend to incoming SU what we thought was good year's budget hearings, "it was officials in April that the Mid­publicity, only 300 students recommended that w~ cutback, west Blues Festival be discon­showed up over two nights this and others had recommended tinued. Their decision, how­year. It's frustrating to spend that we cancel it completely." ever, is unrelated to recently so much time scheduling these However, the previous seven rumored budget cuts. worthwhile activities and the Festivals had been organized to 
Cultural arts Commissioner students are totally apathetic. I a great extent by a former ND Dave Ellison pointed out that, think it'-s a shame to have to student and South Bend resid­although the Festival has never make this recommendation.'' ent. been a money-making venture, Ellison and other Student The Student Union took over (one year it might have made Union Commissioners say they this year, "We thought we money''), fundin~ was not the can only .recommend to their could do an efficient job without main reason he wtll recommend successors that the Festival be losing money,'' Hamel said. that it not be continued. eliminated, with the new offi­"This year, if there was a good 
"I'U do it only with. great cials making the final decision. student turnout, there might regret, and only because stud­But sources close to Student have been some consideration ents aren't supporting it," he Government say these recom­that it be continued,'' Hamel said. mendations are ofteh weighed said, "but we felt that we ~ere 
Ellison continued, "Other col-heavily against the final out-sponsoring something that alot of students just dido' t take advantage of." 
Loss of money was, of course, a contributing factor in the decision to make the recom­
[continued on page 2]
Soviets criticize Carter 


ROTC student contemplates future in view of recent world events. [photo. by Rick Dohn'ng ,] 
(AP) The Soviet Union yesterday scoffed at President Carter's claim that the oil-rich Persian Gulf area is vital to the United States. Britain announ­ced a tough package of meas ures to protest the Soviet military intervention in Afghan~ is tan. 
Responding to Carter's State of the Union address Wednes­day night. the Soviet news agency Tass said "the absurd­ity of Washington claims that the Persian Gulf area is a sphere ofU.S. 'vital interest' is 
an  axiom  which  needs  no  
proof. ..  
''Equally  groundless  is  the  

President's assertion concern­ing mythical threats to the movement of Middle East oil 
[continued on page 10] 

Viable candidate ' 

Fernandez coritinues campaigns at N.D . 
by Mzchael Onu(rak ~ Senior Copy Editor 
Ben Fernandez is confident that he, not Ronald Reagan, not John Connally, not even George Bush, will be the next Republican nominee for president of the United States. . 
Point out to him that he is currently ranked moth among Republican contenders, and he answers that ov~r tw?·hundred candidates are entered in the 1980 race, and he 1s thnlled to be among the top ten. Ask him ifhe ~onsider~ his ~andida_cy a symbol for Latin Americans, much as Shtrley Chtsolm s candtdacy.w~s a symbol for blacks in 1972, and he scowls and tells you h_ts 1s a viable candidacy, his name being already on the ballot 10 five primary states. . . 
"Many are surprised at my tementy to run for the prestdency. But as for those prophets of doom, well ... we'll see," Fernandez told a crowd of about 150 yesterday afternoon during a campaign speech in the Memorial Library avditorium. 
Election '80 ...The Campus View 
"What we have today is a president who is way ?ver his head," h·rnandu tnld his audience. "Had I been prestdent when our embassy was overrun in Tehran I would have give-u the Iranians fiw ~lay~ ro release the hostages and then I would have asked for war. 
fk was ·~qually critical of Presiden~ CarteL's foreign .po!!cy wi~h re-:p:~•'t t·, Sovit·t dealings in Afghalll'>t_ar:.an~ Cuban tutngues to ·ht: ( :~{rribcal' ''The Ayatollah Khmnemt•s nght about. ~art~r, he. ha~ no h;·ckbon he aJlows Fidel Castro to make mtsch•,-f m the ( .atril>t ;.~n, and ~1~ allo._., a battalion ofRussian troop:, to remain in luba. >r.,m ;L:·se and <'Ier actions, the Russians hav-.:-•_k--:\uced that Caw:• is incapahk." · 
Ru; if these di:<r:·ibes Sf"en ::ligh:ly ;dealistic and igr:orant of many 
of tl•c ·""·icauc:; an~~ nu>~n<. :, ,,fa corr.plicatcd foretgE poltcy. on.t· 
rnu~;t rF·m:•·••ber that :<,-r.,>l ~·ck:. io: a self-prrofe;;~ed dark horse and 

.Profs discuss draft proposal 
by Tom Hay ''the most serious signal given Senior StaffReporter to Russia so far,'' by Alan Dowty, Notre Dame professor President Carter's proposed of government and internation­reinstatement of Selective Set· al studies. ''The impact of a vice registration was called grain embargo i& not that 
hts candtdacy 1s 10 Dad need of exposure. Thts is not to say h1s campaign strategy is equally idealistic. On the contrary, it is both realistic and clever. . 
Fernandez did not enter the Iowa Republican caucus held earlier this week, reasoning that it would be worth neither him time nor his effort for a simple straw vote. "Reagan, Connally and Bush each spent at least halfa million dollars in Iowa, and what did they 
really gain ?No (official) delegates at all," he said yesterday. 
Fernandez' strategy calls for him to enter the Puerto Rican primary to be held February 17. Fernandez feels that his popularity among the Spanish-speaking citizens ofPuerto Rico will propel him to victory in the winner-take-all primary where fourteen delegates are at stake. It is the first time that Puerto Rice will hold a presidential primary. 
Once he gains the exposure a victory in Puerto Rico would give him--and this victory would come nine days before the New­Hampshire primary on February 26--he will enter the Massachu­setts primary for which he has already qualified'. 
''Entering in New Hampshire would make no sense because that primary wtll almost certainly go to Reagan. There are very few delegates at stake there, and Massachusetts is much better suited for me demographically," he added. 
Fernandez claiiPs to have fifty-one volunteers working for him full-time across the nation. He said. campaign contributions are coming in steadily. almosr entirely in amounts of-$10 and less. 
"I would much rather have one-thousand people contribute a doll:-r a pit>ce, than have one contributor give $1000," he said. 
A,;:ording to Martha Duffy, a Gary, Im:liana native who acwmpanied Fer:landf::z to Norre Dame yesterday, Fernandez has a_gr<•wing sntrr:-vide-campaign. This is r~ot c~mpletely s_urprising gtvCJ, that Fernandez was, for a time, ratsed m East Chtcago. 
"Ben has already qualifies to run in Lake County (in the extreme 
.1• 
[continued on page 5] 
great," Dowty said, "but the call for registration hits a sensitive note. It's something that will get their (the Soviet's) attention.'' 
Peri Arnold, N.D. government and international studies de­partment chairman, believes that the proposal of draft regis­tration is a necessary step in American foreign relations, both symbolically and practical­ly. 
''First of all, we have to show the Russians that we're ser­ious,'' he said. ''Then, if we do get into war, we're going to need solid military forces. It could be hard to fight a war with a volunteer army. It's one thing to sign up during peace time, but its entirely different if there is the possibility ofJet­ting -kille . '' Micheal Francis, also a prof­e§sor of government and inter­national studies, .expressed a slightly different viewpoint con­cerning the volunteer army. "I am not totally convinced that the volunteer army has failed, but I do feel that registration inay be a necessity. Should the unspeakable occur, and we should need more resources. a time lag would be a problem·." Dowty and Arnold both agreed that President Car: er's State of the Union address Wednesdav displayed a reversal of admif't·-, t:ration priorities since the-b1·g­inning of Carter's term m· office. Both men quickly·· : n­ed out, huwever, that ext~. •a! factut s were the primar> ca. :o:e of thf' change. and not jnco•·~;is­ten,·y on Carter's f''~-,rt. "Caner has changed, bur the world 1s '~hanging at the ~-_,.,,. 
[corilinued on page 1· 

--------~------~----·-----­




News in brief 
Friday, January 25, 1980 -page 2 
Kennedy cancels trip, announces policy speech 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Sen. Edward M. Kennedy abruptly scrapped plans yesterday for a weekend presidential campaign trip to New England and aides announced he will deliver a "major policy address" in Washington on Monday. Campaign officials flatly denied that the Massachusetts senator was preparing to abandon his sagging campaign for the White House. · 

Weather 
A 70 percent chance of occasional snow today with highs in rhe mtd 20s. Partial clearing and cold tonight with a 20 percent chance for snow flurries and lows near five above. Partly cloudy and cold tomorrow with highs in the upper t•Tns to the low 20s. 


CamP-_u_s------~ 
Friday, January 25, 1980 
lpm GRADUATE STUDENT SHOW, university of ill. art works, OLD FIELDHOUSE N.W. CORNER. 
4pm SWIMMING, nd vs northern ill. ROCKNE POOL. 
4:30pm COLLOQUIUM, "comp~t~ng characte~ valu~s in classical groups," prof. bhama snmvasn, u. of dl. chtcago circle, 226 CCMB, spons: math dept. 
6:30pm MEETING, spons: cila, the meeting will be over before the urban plunge meeting starts. LIBRARY LOUNGE. 
7-9pm OPENING RECEPTION,elena borstein exhibit, MOREAU GALLERY SMC. 1 
7,9:15, 11:30pm MOVIE, "the exorcist," spons: afrotc cadet corps. ENGINEERING AUD, admission $1. 
Spm LIONS CLUB TRAVELOGUE, ''florence & the hill towns," robin williams, O'LAUGHLIN AUD, $2 at the door. 
Spm HOCKEY, nd at michigan tech. 
8:30 pm NAZZ, the rubber band, LAFORTUNE BASE MENT, admission free. 
11pm NAZZ, vocalist mary francell and co. LAFORTUNE BASEMENT, admission free. 
Saturday, January 26, 1980 
TEST, gmat, ENGR. A.UD. 
1:30pm BASKE1BALL, nd men vs maryland A.C.C. nbc-tv. 
2pnt SWIMMING, nd vs bradley, ROCKNE POOL. 
4pria BASKE1BALL, nd women vs mt. st. joseph, A.C.C. 
6ptn INTERVIEW, wsnd interviews al mcguire and bill packer Of nbC SpOrtS. r 
I 
·~ 

7, ·9:15, & 11:30 pm MOVIE, "the exorcist," ENG. AUD. admission $1. 
9:30pm NAZZ, comedywith pat byrnes, admission free, LAFORTUNE BASEMENT. 
Sunday, January 27, 1980 
lpm MEETING, nd chess dub, all invited, LAFORTUNE RATHSKEILAR. 
3pm & 8pm SOCIAL CONCERN FILM SERIES, · "harlan county, u.s.a." ENGR. AUD. spons: student gov't& ctr. for expenemial learning, free of charge. 
6pm MEETING, urban plunge, LIBRARY AUD. spons: ctr. for experiential learning. 
7:30pm CONCERT, fred walker, christian folk music, keenan chapel, donations accepted. 
7:30pm. MEETING, organizational meeting for students for ronald reagan, state senator dan manton. · spons: student~ for reagan LAFORTUNE LIITLE THEATER. 
7:30pm URBAN PLUNGE FOLLOW'-UP,MEMORIAL LIBRARY AUD. 
lOpm MEETING, organizational meeting for all prospective candidates for the 1980 sbp/sbvp elections, STUDENT GOV'T OFFICE. 
• • . MBF 
[continued from page 1] 
mendation, and this year's F es tival is rumored to have lost a great deal. Hamel and Ellison both pointed out that support in past ye'ars has been good from 
local residents, ·and that snowi. on both nights this year made the roads very hazardous, thus reducing attendance. 
Bill Roche, Student Body Pres­ident, cannot make recommen­dations to the Student Union on how its money is spent, but as a member of the Student Govern­ment's Board ofCommissioners -and a former Student Union director-he was in favor of a cutback for the Festival at budget hearings last Septem­ber. 
Roche says, "I think it should be restructured. It was just a big waste of money this year." He added, "We are not provid­ing something they can't get elsewhere,'' referring to South Bend's Vegetable Bud­dies, a top draw for major blues acts. 
Roche suggests bringing in "One big blues act, like a 'B.B. King .or a ] ohn Lee Hooker, maybe one or two backup! acts, and run it like a regular concert. There's no need to spread it out over two nights and people don't want to see eight to ten different, smaller blues groups when they can see the same thing all the time at Vegetable Buddies.'' 

''Our obligation is to spend Student Government funds effi­ciently, "Roche said. "There has been a lot of money spent on too few students, otherwise we wouldn't be losing $8,000 or whatever.'' 
In the past, the Midwest Blues Festival has brought in some of the greatest names in the history of the blues, including Muddy Waters, Fenton Robin­son, Son Seals, Albert Collins and, last year, John Lee Hook­er, a blues guitarist whose influence on hundreds of groups from the ] . Geils Band to the Animals to the Rolling 
~Oilf:~ places him ~ one of the 
[continued on page 3] 

~The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Margaret Kruse Copy Editor: Mike Onufrak Layout Staff: Eddie Holden News Editor: Mike Lewis Sports Layout: Beth Huff­manTypists: Carol Cornwall, Karhr Murray, Paula Shea, Caro Shuback, Pat Shaug­nessy EMT's: Cindy Richers, Liz Huber Proofreaders: Dan Ryan, Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor: Patsy "I forgot'' Campbell AdDesign: David Wood, Flo O'Connell 
Photographer: Rick Dohring Guest Appearances: Kiefer, Panama, The Kid 
The Observer !USPS 8 9'20] Ia published Monday through f=·
cept during exam and vacation . The Observer is publlsllld by the students of Notre Da1111 and Slint Mary's College. Subscrlptilfts lillY be purchased for S20 per yur IS1D per sematerj from The Observer. P.O. box 
0. Notrt Da1111. Indiana 46556. Slcand class "=e paid, Notrt 011111, In­diana . 
Tile Observer is a IIIIIRblr of the Associatlld Pms. All rtprlductlon rights are reserved. 


BASEMENT, NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL LEGAL ~ID & DEFENDER ASSOCIATION 
ROOM 8·12 283·7795
11 am . 2 pm (IV: . F) other times by appointment 
WE HANDLF ALL 1=1NANCIALLY 
S STAFF
QUALIHC:O TUDE:.NTS & ___ 
L--=---------,---------------......J 
.-------------------------,I 
I

an ENGAGED? MARRIAGE IN I
CBII)P.US

min1iltry I
YOUR NEAR FUTURE PLANS? 
I 
I 
I 

!fotre Dame students (both graduate and I undergraduate) who ue planning muriage next I summer or fall and wish to go through the Pre-cana 
experience here, must sign up in the Campus 
1 

Ministry Office by FIIBilUAilY 29. I 

L-------------------------~ 
an 
Sunday Masses 
at 
campus

miniStry Sacred Heart Church 
5:15p.m. Saturday Rev Robert Griffm, C.S.C. 9:00a.m. Sunday Rev Michael McCafferty, C.S.C. 
10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. John Fitzgerald. C.S.C. 
7:15p.m. Vespers Rev. Daniel Jenky. C.S.C. 


MASS 
followed by
supper 
every
FRIDAY 
at the 
---·­

The Observer Friday, January 25, 1980 -~ge 3 
To draft 
Students react across nation 
by Tim V ercellotti StaffReporter 

PresidentJimmy Caner, in his annual State of the Union Address Wednesday made known his intention to send to Congress legislation that would resurrect the Selective Service System. He cited the possibility of "future mobilization needs" as reason for this proposal 
At Notre Dame, and at other midwestern college campuses, reaction was mixed regarding Carter's request for the rein­statement ofregistration for the draft. 
A random sampling of Notre Dame students revealed that of those interviewed, close to half were in support of the reinstate­ment of registration. 
Also, when these students were asked if they would go fight in the event of a Middle Eastern conflict dir.ectly involv­ing the United States, the majority of them replied that they would ~o if drafted. Of those who sa1d that they would go, however, many said they would under objection. 
One student supported his stand, saying, "The lives of youth are the cost of war. It appears that, in times of war, thousands of young people are manipulated by a few men." 
Another student countered this view by saying that the United States needs more than a volunteer military. 
"If the United States has to enter into a military confronta­tion with Russia, the draft will become necessary," he said. 
This viewpoint was shared by other students. David Doneski, a sophomore Arts and Letters major, as.reed that registration 
is a possibility.  
''Registration  may  be  nec­ 
essary.  In the  event  that  the  
United  States  would  need  to  

mobilize quickly, they will have the means to do so, and it. will save time." 
The last time Carter proposed reinstatement of registration for the draft, he conceded that women might also have to register. The Equal Rights Amendment, which is awaiting ratification, also has this provis­ion. This did not appeal to some of the women that were inter­viewed. 
"I do not believe in women being drafted. I feel that they are not built for the rigors of war," stated one ND woman. 
This variance of opinion is not limited to the Notre Dame campus. According to Robin Roach, a reporter for Purdue's campus newspaper, The Expo­nent, the majonty of the stu­dents that she talked to sup­ported President Carter's plans. 
''The reinstatement of regis­tration for the draft is necessary for national security.'' and ''The volunteer army is not doing its job" were som of the reasons Purdue students of­fered for this sentiment. 
Some students at Michigan State University disagreed. Jim Kates, a writer for The State News, said that most students that he talked to were firmly against Carter's propo­sal. 

Valparaiso University is ano­ther campus where students disagreed on the subject of ~e re-enaction of the Selective Service. According to Lori Vassant, a member of the Valparaiso Torch staff, every opinion imaginable was expres­sed by the students that she talked with. One Valparaiso student stated that it is a good idea, because it shows the Soviets that we mean business, Vassant said. 
Another Valparaiso student, a 
woman, supported the incor­
poration of women in the draf~. 
''I am against the draft, bu~ if it is to be reinstated, I thmk women should be included,'' she said. 
Dan Friedrich, former editor­
in-chief of The Torch, expres­
sed his views like this, "We kill 
a fellow countryman and call it 
murder; we kill a foreigner and 
call it victory." 
It is apparent that stud~nt opinion varies concerning rem­statement ofregistration for the draft. There is one trend, however, that runs through the many different opinions. Of the students that were interviewed, some opposed President Car-. ter's intentions, Jet many said that they woul serve their country if needed. 
One Notre Dame student sum­
med up this general feeling in 
this statement. ''A basic 
conflict exists for me concern­
ing this topic. I think it is 
wrong, and I would not want to 
go; however, ifl was told that I 
had to go, I would." 
RIVER CITY RECORDS PRESENTS 
COLLECTOR'S SHOW AND SALE 
U.S. 31 North store only 
thousands and thousands of cut-outs. 
oldies, budget lp's, special imports and 
hard-to-find albums 
ooster sale-a few of the huge 4X4 posterswill be sold· to start the semester otr tyle
·-1n s 
Steve Dahl's "Ayatollah" 45 is available 
-listen to the River Citv ads on wlup-fm this 
weekend, and visit our booth at Jhe 
Loop-Fest; Feb. 2&3
RIVER CITY RECORDS 50970 U.S. 31 NORTH 3 MILES NORTH OF CAMPUS 
at the .Amphitheater in 
277-4242 
chicago 

It's Hedonistic Night 




at theSeniot Ba( 
Tonisht with All-Night Specials •• 

.50 screwdrivers 
Observer poll 
SMC students favor draft 
by Mary Leavitt 

Most Saint Mary's students favor a reinstitution of Selective Service Registration, according to an informal poll conducted by The Observer last night. Twenty-two of the 30 stu~ents questioned favored President Carter' s call for a renewal of the draft machinery. However, only ten said they were in favor ofwomen being drafted in.to the armed services. Nevertheless, 21 of the 30 indicated that they would serve if they were drafted. Comments on the issue were varied. Sophomore Anne Pat­terson state~ tha,t s~e wou!d 'go to war only if I believed 10 the cause', while Sophomore Lisa Benne said, 'I'd rather be 
Sophomore Julie Sigmund, 'The women who have been 
supporting the ERA should go tci war. They've made such a big deal out of being equal, they'd look like fools at this point to back out.' 
Although most students ad­mitted that the draft was neces­sary considerin~ the circums­tances tj,le .\Jmted States is facing at this time, few of them admitted this without reserva­tion. 
'I know the draft is the only alternative for us right now, but it is very hard to be favorable about it,' said Senior Velora Horst. 
Twenty of the 30 stude,nts questioned said they were a­gainst women being ~rafted, but 11 of those 20 satd they 

pregnant by the Shah than gq to. would ~o to war for the Unitep· 


~~~e rhffig is ~,_.u:e .. ~d-~!E2~;~;£J,~~~J~f& 
there is any danger of women·· !U~··-~~-~..;..;._________________________.__.. . being put on_Fhe front line. But 
• • . MBF 

{continued from page 2] 
fbrefathers of rock 'n' roll. 
Ellison pointed out that the 
annual loss ofmoney was not an 
overriding influence on his 
decision, noting that ''we would 
never cancel the Sophomore 
Literary Festival," since it at­
tracts "several thousand" an­
nually, despite the fact that it 
generates no revenue whatso­
ever. 
"I suppose if we announced 
that we were having 100 kegs 
along with it, people would be 
more interested, but we won't 
stoop that low,'' he added. 
admitted they would not use illegal means of evading the draft. 
'I'd consider leaving for Can­ada, but I don't think I'd go through with it,' said Melissa Albert. 
Probabiy the most revealing comment was made by Julie Sigmund. 
'Sure I think women should be-­drafted,' she said. 'All women except SMC women, that is.' 
For the most part, though, the students questioned admitted that the situation was a sad one. 
'I'm not happy about the whole thing,' said Junior Sarah Johnson. 'How could anyone 
.50 sloe comfortable screws 3 old styles for Jl.00 
Also,· tomo11ow after the matyland-game, 3 drafts forii.OO until 6:00pm 
be?' . r­

· •' ; ' ~
i/M •' It ~-• Ba.. ·... . . 
-~~ 
.... CJCfl S . ·.~.tan ·. ~~ry 
~=~~~that's ~~;ing theou~~:..._ . Celebra~ng}t's 1st _Aimiv~rsary and treats are on us . 

'I'd s!t down and I'd cry, but_ I'd grit my teeth and go,' said . Bobbi McCarthy, a sophomore. 'I just couldn't break the law.' The nine women who said they would not go to war under any circumstances gave varied res-: ponses as to how they would avoid the draft. 
'I'd go to Canada,' said fresh­man Mary Crane. 
'I'd go to boot camp. They'd\ throw me out in a day,' said' sophomore Beth Riethmann. 'I'd get pregnant,' said Sopho­more Angela Wtng. But, of the nine women who said they wouldn't go to war under any circumstances, six 

{With any purchase) 

31WJ&e6ltt»a 
Ot~ia~ 
A.rahdaify tedtuj'& tcilcla 008082 
FREE DELIVERY ON CAMPUSI Ph. 282-1010 . 
Today's special Rum Baba Weekly specials 
Free American coffee from 7:00 · 12:00 am. ~puccino half price 
520 E. LaSalle 
So. Bend 
r---------------~·­
Friday, January 25, 1980 -page 4
The Observer 

HOURS: 
Mon. thru Thurs. 8 am.-10 p.m. Fri. and Sat. 8 a.m.-11 p.m.
oll'-t;t.,'t~~o•G ~~ 
254 DIXIE HWY NORTH 200 N. MAIN ST. 1621 SOUTH BEND AVE
• ELKHART, IN
ROSELAND, IN SOUTH BEND, IN I 
NEXT TOMcDONALD5' 

272-2522 295-6310 233-4603 




MILLER 

PABST 
BLUE RIBBON


LITE 
24/12 oz. CANS 24/12 oz. 
CANS 

EARLY TIMES, YOUR 
CANADIAN MIST, JIM BEAM OR USHER'S CHOICE 


MEDICI GALLO 11 
LAMBRUSCO VERMOUTH. 

..·.. 
~-""' 
. 
ft-'
79!
.~· 
750ML. -., 
Prices Good Thru Saturday ~ 


1.75 LITER 
CARLO ROSSI
PHILADELPHIA 

1 TABLE WINES 
"BLEND" ALL VARIETIES 
• 
-WE 
January 26, 1980 

a~"~J-,-B HAVE 
lt)~ , 
~ 

VISIT OUR 4 CONVENIENCE STORES 
2934 E. McKinley Ave.• 1426 Mishawalca Ave. 4401 S. Michigan St. • 1725 N. Ironwood 
-
-

The Observer · Fri~y, Jan~ary 25-, 1980 -page 5 
Fernandez outlines campaign 
by john M. McGrath 
Senior staffreporter 

California Republican Ben­jamin Fernandez became the first presidential candidate to bring his 1980 campaign to South Bend yesterday, arriving at the Morris Inn to deliver a press conference at 12:30 p.m. 
Although Fernandez is not currently considered to be a­mong the Republican front­runners, he stressed in his remarks that a successful show­ing in the Feb. 17 Puerto Rican pnmary could make him a force to be reckoned with in the party. 
Puerto Rico is imfortant to Fernandez for severa reasons. First, since he is the son of 
immigrant Mexicans and a Roman Catholic he expects to do well among the predomin­antly Spanish-speaking Catho­lic population ot-rtiat island. Secondly, this year's Puerto Rican primary makes it the frrst such race in the nation--nine days before the more establish­ed New Hampshire primary. A strong Fernandez performance would not only give him the winner-take-all portion of 14 delegates, but also gain him some of the visibility his cam­paign so sorely needs. 
As a prelude to his remarks, Fernandez, :>4, issued a chal­lenge to current GOP front­runner George Bush to defeat him in the Puerto Rican pri­mary. 
"Puerto Rico is Fernandez country," he told reporters, ''and I will defeat Bush and give him the thrashing of his life." 
Fernandez lashed out at President Carter's foreign pol­icy, charging, "We have a President who is totally inept, over his head and who is probably the worst President we've had in the last 50 years in terms of foreign policy.'' 
Noting his belief that the future of the U.S. lies with the future of the countries of the western hemisrhere, Fernan­dez was especially critical of Carter's dealings with Latin American nations. 
"Here's Mexico discovering the greatest gas an.d,....oj.l, re­serves in the western hemi­sphere. So. what does our President do? "Fernandez ques­tioned. ''Publically in Mexico City, he tells the President of Mexico that he can identify with that country because he had contacted Montezuma's re­venge. And you wonder why the people of Mexico dislike the 
people of the Umted States so much." He also blasted Carter's rela­tions with Brazil and Argentina. 
Both of these nations, Fernan­dez charged, have become a­lienated from the U.S. because of Carter's policies. He added that these same countries have now 'refused to cooperate with the U.S.-sponsored grain em­bargo against the Soviet Union. 
Calling himself an economist by profession, Fernandez out­lined a four point program to reduce inflation including ac­tions to curb federal waste, deregulate industry, develop a ''tough and viable'' energy program, and promised to veto deficit spending bills sent to him by Congress. 
When asked about military conscription, Fernandez told reporters, "I'm opposed to the draft on general principle, but our armed forces have failed to meet their recruiting quotas iri each of the last three quarters, and unless that is reversed~ and unless we can motivate our young people to spend a couple or three years in the armed forces, it's not a matter of whether you're for a draft, it's a matter of when.'' 

On other issues, Fernandez' positions include: 
Abortion, opposed. ''I'm a pro-life advocate," Fernandez claimed. However, h~ is also opposed to a constitutional amendment banning abortion, because he "doesn't want any tinkering with the constitution by special interest groups.'' 
ERA, opposed. He agrees with the principle of equal rights, but once again opposes a constitutional amendment by a special interest group. 
Nuclear power, "A source'of energy that should be treated with caution but riot disregard­
• Fernandez
• 
[continuedfrom page 1] 

northwestern part of the state) by virtue of his campaign 
committee raising $5000 in small contributions. This is especially 
encouraging since Lake is an extremely Democratic county,'' 
Duffy said. 

Fernandez is also gaining support in this state because of the efforts of his two sisters, Mrs. Joseph Gonzalez and Mrs. Edgar Vella. Both women hail from the Gary area, and both accompamed Fernandez here yesterday. 
Fernandez will return to Notre Dame in March for the 1980 Mock 
Republican Convention. And, if one buys his perennially 
optimistic outlook, possibly in May for the Indiana primary. • 
• 
p 
' 

FREE quart ofRC Cola with any large Rizzopizzaf 
277-4926 

WE DELIVER 18439 State Road 23, South Bend 


-
\ 
\ 
FEATURED LIVEWilliam I Rick ONAckerman Walters WSND-FM Mon., Jan. 28 12 Midnight ' 'an eveillng of acoustic guitar' ' • TICKETS AT STUDENT UNIONSunday, February 3-8:00 p.m.-Washmgton Hall Tl\~~:~~~::s:'a  


tf 

The Observer 
~ 
~ 


UI;Jrum f;Ji{!ill] 
t1::ti!J Spring Breakout to Ft. Lauderdale & Daytona 1Etlii: 
Take abus to &from Daytona and stay at the Whitehall Inn 
only $199 
or 

Drive 'n' save with hotel accommodations 
at the luxurious Whitehall Inn 
only $99 
or 

Drive 'n' save to Ft. Lauderdale and 
Stay at the Lauderdale Biltmore 
only $109 

Each trip Includes: 
0 6 days/5 nights at the beautiful Lauderdal Biltmore in Ft. 
Lauderdal or at the Whitehall Inn in Daytona 
0 both are ocean front hotels 
0 Parties and Activities 
0 Optional extra nights of lodging 
0 Optional Disney World side trip 
0 Optional Kennedy Space Center Tour 
0 Optional Matamoros trip 
Limited Space available so call noW 1' for reservation information Call Ken 283-1387. arrangements by Summit 'ravel inc. 
Excellent Lifestyle. . ,. International Harvester operations are located in cities like San Diego. Fort Wayne. Louisville. Moline. and the Chicago suburbs. You get the best of both worlds: urban culture and amenities and the countryside but a short drive aw~. Or. if you want total cosmopolitan excitement.IH World Headquarters is on the "Magnificent Mile" of Michigan Avenue. in Chicago. 
Challenging assignment. 
The new IH is on the march. Technological ad­vancement. design leadership. marketing impact and management excellence are major targets. You'll be challenged from the start to stretch your mind. present ideas. reach for breakthroughs. 
Friday, January 25 •.1980 -page 6 
Ford documents made public 
WINAMAC Ind. (AP) -The judge in Ford Motor Co.'s reckless homicide trial eased his restrictions yesterday on use of internal Ford documents dealing the safety of Pinto fuel tanks. 
Pulaski Circuit Judge Harold 

R. Staffeldt allowed a prosecu­tion witness to discuss mforma­tion in the documents, which previously were excluded as evidence without accompanying proof that they are authentic. 
'' You may have the jury present (dunng discussion of the documents), realizing that Ford may object," Staffeldt said. "But you should lay you foundation in front of the jury.'' 
The prosecution wants to lay foundations to submit as evid­ence crash tests performed on 1971 and 1972 Pintos. Chief prosecutor Michael R. Cosentino said those models are basically the same car as the 1973 Pinto which burst into flames when it was struck from behind on a highway near 
Goshen, Ind., in August 1978. Three teen-agers were killed in that accident. 
Ford was charged with three counts of reckless homicide by an Elkhart County Grand Jury that said the automaker knew Pinto fuel tanks were likely to explode in rear-end collistons but did nothing about it until announcing a recall in June 1978. 
Prosecutors hope to prove that by presenting evidence about Pintos built before and after 1973. 
That evidence is included in documents the prosecution has so far been unable to present in court. Staffeldt ruled Tuesday that the authenticity of the documents, subpoenaed from Ford files, must be shown before they could be admitted as evidence. 
Chief Ford attorney ] ames F. Neal argued testimony about anything but the 1973 Pinto's fuel system should be disal­lowed. 
''The one defect that caused 





IH offers you all4 reasons! 
Stimulating environment. 

. ~ 1 
1 

The new IH atmosphere is dynamic. The latest state of the art is being sought for every adivity. College graduates will be instrumental in meeting the technological challenges of the future. The effect is catalytic. energizing and inspiring. for newcomers and long·timers alike. 

Solid future. 

IH builds basic machinery to provide the most basic needs of people worldwide: food and fiber. 
transportation. construction. energy. No other company has a greater combination of trucks. ag­ricultural equipment. construction and industrial equipment. turbo machinery. and components. Few companies offer you a future based on '>uch critically important needs. 
International Harvester 
Company will be interviewing 
on January 30 in the placement 
office. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M IF 
•
Ill 
death in this reckless homicide 
case is the only thing that is 
relevant," Neal said. 
Wednesaay, Neal unsuccess­fully attacked the credibility of prosecution witness Byron Bloch as an automotive expert, arguing that most of Bloch's jobs had nothing to do with the industry. 
Cosentino said Bloch was asked by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to write about the fuel system in the Pinto for a study released in May 1978. 
Bloch criticized the location of the fuel tank at the left rear of the 1973 Pinto and said the car's frame was too weak to protect the tank from rear ·Impact. 

Draft 
opponents 
• 


orgaruze 
WASHINGTON (AP) Oppon­ents of President Carter's plan to register draft-age youth's vowed yesterday to 'picket, teach-in, protest and demonst­rate' in every major city, but acknowledged they will have a hard time stopping the prog­ram. 
As student groups and others mapped campaigns to rally public opinion against registra­tion, several members of Con­gress denounced Carter's ac­tion and promised to try to block it. One idea being examined is an attenpt to deny the admin­istration the money it would need to take the Selective Service System out of moth­balls, where it has been since 1975 when President Gerald Ford halted Registration. Carter already has authority under his executive powers to order registration. Congress also would have to change Selective Service laws if Carter decided to compel wom­en as well as men to register. In his State of the Union address Wednesday, in which he announced plans to begin registration for the draft, Carter did no say whether he intended tc regisr:er women. Administra­tion officials have said that is an "open question". Carter administration officials said yesterday that the presi­dent may decide by Feb. 9 whether to register women for the draft. 
John White, the Deputy Direc­tor of the Office of Management and Budget who has been studying the military conscrip­tion system, said that a presid­ential report to Congress on the draft was due by Feb.9. He said it was likely that the President would indic"lue then whether women should be regi­stered. 
The President already has strong backing on registration from key Congressional leaders including Senate Democratic leader Robert Byrd and House SpeakerThomasP. O'neill, and it appears now that his plan would be approved. 
House Republican leader]ohn Rhodes of Arizona said Carter has "overwhelming support': among Republicans on the is­sue and that he sees no effective opposition to it from any quarter. 

I l 
Justice Notes 



Are we resPonsible? 

._.­

Basil O'Leary 

The news ofmass starvation in deaths and share a responsibili­whole family gets together.Cambodia certainly made many ty with others more affluent She'd ruin everything. In both Americans so morally uncom­than ourselves, this does not instances, indeed, we would fortable that they gave aid free us from an obligation much experience a sense of moral generously and quickly. The stronger than the humane de­outrase, es~ecially because.of 
stark pictures and detailed re­mand that we be occasionally our Immediate personal m­
ports somehow told us that the charitable. volvement. thousands of victims of this A life of ''voluntary simplici­In conventional ways of think­tragedy in a distant country ty,'' such as practiced by many ing we feel there is more guilt were knocking on our own doors today, and efforts to influence in pushin~ the child into the 
for at least a few ounces of rice. U.S. foreign aid appropriations pool than to failing to rescue or It became our crisis, too. This may well p~event the unneces­10 feeding poisonous candy to a is the way we react in emergen­sary loss of these millions of Halloween 'trickster' than in cies: we rush to aid the injured lives, and even our own. failing to feed a starving child. 
in an automobile accident, to . If it is in our power to prevent Certainly on the psychological 
secure medical assistance for level there is a difference;
at least some of these deaths,

the person who collapses from a nonetheless, whether we deli­
do we, as individuals and a

heart attack, to console a rela­berately kill someone or merely
nation, have a duty to provide 

allow him to die (when we could
the necessary resources? Or, is 

easily prevent it), the victim
it more proper to say, "It's the 

ends up dead. While in these
charitable thing to do,'' just as 

cases it seems that killing and
we give some change to the 

letting die are morally equiva­
blind beggar shaking his cup on 

lent, they are only examples,
the sidewalk? That we have an 

not complete arguments. Such
obvious duty not to kill another 

proofs have been made by ahuman being is evidenced in 
philosophers, but they are diffi­grato andthat society and moral systems 
permit it only in the most cult and subject to much qualifi­there is even . ·.· of boycotting emergencies, our record in cation. This is not the place to the Moscow Olympics. ·BryanS O'Netl!
extraordinary circumstances

preventing catastrophe is less present them.
~and subject to strict rules, suchremarkable--even when it is the as those concerned with theloss of our own life. There is conduct of a 'just war.' The

fairly conclusive evidence that us is:
question that confrontspoints to the significant causes 

Another Rose Garden Campaign
Do we have a similar obligation of heart disease, cancer, auto­not to allow another person tomobile accidents. In the aggre­die when we could easily pre­

gate we don't change our habits Pat Toomey
vent such an evil? Or, is

of eating, smoking, or drinking. It appears that we are going to see another expected him to open up the government. 
coming to the aid of a person

Muchmorecould be said about Rose Garden campaign in 1980. Like his two Unfortunately, Carter's campaign seems to be
threatened by death an act that

the proportion of resources our immediate predecessors, Jimmy Carter is following the path established by Ford and
is limited to those we call

society devotes to preventative avoiding criticism by hidin~ in the White House Nixon. He had agreed to debate Kennedy and
"Good Samaritans?"

medicine in relation to the and appearing "presidential." Brown in Iowa, but later cancelled, claiming that 
Some examples may help us By claiming to 
"rising costs of medical care." be preoccupied with foreign problems, Carter he could not leave Washington. Kennedy and
on-the way. Suppose a young

But that is not our subject. man, a dare and has been able to dodge questions on his B_rown offered to debate him in Washington, but
dressed for

The suffering in Cambodia performance as president. ht: claims to be totally preoccupied with foreign 
late, comes upon a two-year old 

brings into focus the malnutri­Richard Nixon first raised the Rose Garden cnses.
floundering in a shallow pond. 

tion, and associated health ills, campaign to an art form in 1972. During the This preoccupation suddenly ended when
Should he hurry .past as the

that afflicts roughly 500 million primary season, he made his trips to China and Carter was invited to appear on "Meet the
infant sinks below-the surface,

of the world's population. A Soviet Union. During the. summer, he turned Press.''. The President could not find the time to
we would-say the 'natural

few weeks ago a preliminary the Republican Convention into a Nixon rally. debate his opponents, but he could find the time 
cause' of death was drowning.­

report of the Presidential Com­During the fall campaigrt, he made token tnps to appear on NBC. He also could find the time to
While the young man did not · 

mission on World Hunger sta­and Rose Garden speeches, addressing only personally call Iowa voters every night. Carter
throw the baby into the water,

ted that one person in eight now pro-Nixon groups. He deftly avoided scrutiny capped things off by "coincidentally" releasing 
his failure to rescue the child

suffers from malnutrition "sev­about Watersate and the failure of his Vietnam the text of his State of the Union message hours 
certainly is a~ausal factor in the 

ere enough to shorten life, stunt and economic policies. The campaign was before the Iowa balloting. 
child's death. If he had acted,

physical growth and dull mental complete when Henry Kissinger announced We can expect more of the same from our
the child would be alive. Can 

ability ... a crisis of even more "Peace is at hand" only days before the President as the campaign becomes intense.
we say the young man had a

serious dimensions than the election. Instead of hearing about the issues, we will be
duty to save the child because 

present energy crisis appears In 1976, Gerald Ford established the Rose hearing about how our president is acting strong 
his failure to prevent the -drow­

likely within the next 20 years.'' Garden campaign as an institution in American in a crisis. Carter will continue to dodge
ning implies responsibility for politics. Although he did agree to participate in questions about his failures on energy and theIfwe are aware of the fact !.'hat •;:he •consequences? Without 

our and a debate with challenger Jimmy Carter, he upcoming Bert Lance trial by hiding in the White
millions of brothers engaging in outrageous fancy, as preferred to stay above the fray, claiming to be House. Like Nixon and Ford, he will allow hissisters in the world are dying of we could also imagine that 
preoccupied with his job. Meanwhile, running­Vice-President to do his dirty work on the
the effects of malnutrition and we sit down for Thanksgiving it is in our power (without dinner a Cambodian child, such mate Robert Dole went out and played hatchet campaign trail. 
man. . It is time for the American public to. demand 
seriously harming ourselves) to as we have seen on TV, Carter sharply criticized Ford's style of an end to this farce. In 1976, Jimmy Carterprevent at least some of their suddenly appears at our kitchen campaigning. He promised to run an open and promised a government "as honest and decentdeath and suffering, then fail­door. But we send her away-­
ure to act seems to be a senous after all, it's a National Feast hones.t government. Carter pledged to make the as the Amencan people." In 1980, he is playing Amencan public a part of the decision-making these same American people for the fool. We
moral evil, not too different and one of the few times the 
from murder. process. There were many of us who really must show him that we are not so naive. It is true that learning of the hardships of hundreds of mil­eACH a= 'l(lJ HA5/MPU&IJ THifT 
SAM& Hl!?KC.
lions living in far away coun­50M& 5fKfOF IJI~Mll!TAFY 
/ 1;13, 7{)0. ?HANKS.
tries, some of which we never AcnONM/6HfHAvt.8tifN IN heard of, is to experience ~. t:f)E511N'Ja.j£ C4/ll3 / 50~Y. 600/) . them as abstractions. The 70 60cw7Hfi R«lJJ?P/IS Qi/&Sll()N, 
7HJ()6f(.

situation does not seem real or actual as it might were we to ­see a child drownin~ before our eyes or to hold a dymg Cambo­dian in our arms. Yet, on reflection, to allow such num­bers to die, year after year, does suggest that the moral equivalence theory has some truth about it. While it is also true that we don't intend these 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and

-The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ....... qosemary Mills Sports Editor .................. Mark Perry represem the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor .. : .. .... Diane Wilson Features Editor .....Kathleen Connelly ­Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonal~Editor.............. Ann Gales Photo Editor ..............Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ..... .... M. Onufrak 
The Obsen~er is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ......Mike Lewis Business Manager ...... ,.Steve Odland newspaper pu.blished by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor .. .................. Mark Rust Production Manager ......,IM. Me~ ofthe University of Noue Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News Editor ... .............. Mike Shields Advertising Manager .........Bob Rudyand Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC News Editor........ Margie Brassil Controller..................Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the ~couraged. . Circu/qtion Manager ......Greg Hedges 
' ­

-• • .. •~-•---:-."".. ---. -~ -· ..
/ fJ.r ---... -·• -• • -• -• • ... The Observer 
Friday, January 25, 1980-page 8 
·-------------------------~
I~ . PINOCCHIO'S I 

I Pizza Parlor 1ND profs to debate on world affairs 
I Georgetown Shopping Center~ 
by'Betsie Boland tan (Bank) in the political into! their economies, and goes 
.. 
-
-

I WINTER SPECIALS I 
1--------------------~--~-~
I $2 OFF Sl OFF I 
I any large pizza any small pizza I 


~-------------------------~ 
1 Good Jan. thru Feb. 1980 only I INew Sunday hours Wide Screen TV [ 
I 1 lOpm Emmons Rd "l I
I -• Pinocchio's f.-1
IHAPPY HOUR ~I I 
1
I 4-6pm ~ z_ 


L~~~~-~-~:!~-------~:=~~1 
In Addition to Our Regular Menu 
THE BOAR'S HEAD
'1. 

IS PROUD TO ANNOUNCE 
Its All New 
II SUNDAY CHAMPAGNE BRUNCH" 
All Dishes Served with Mixed Fruit, Breakfast Potatoes, Hot Fruit Muffins and All the Champat;ne You can Drink. 

$5.95 

Brunch Available Benveen 
12 noon and 2:30pm 
CAU FOR RESERVATIONS 52885
272-5478 Bend 
U:S. 31 North, South 

1 
Peter W alshe and Bernard Norling will face each other in a debate on world affairs Monday in the Grace Hall Pit at 8 p.m. W alshe, professor of Govern­ment and International Studies, and History Professor Norling will discuss ''The Role of the 
U.S. and U.S. Corporations in Wodd Affairs -Exploitive or Constructive?'' 
According to the debate's organizer, ND junior Mark Pas­guerilla, a question/ answer session will follow the opening statements and rebuttals to allow students to confront the professors directly. 
The debate stems from the pointI counterpoint articles which have appeared on the Editorial page of The Observer in the past week in reaction to the iniual Walshe editorial Dec. 
4. The articles concern the involvement of U.S. corpora­tions in underdeveloped coun­tries' affairs. 
On the one hand, Walshe has argued that the "exploitive transnational corporations'' have found a lucrative market in third world countries. In particular, Walshe says, "This IOvolvement of Chase Manhat-
Urban Plunge 
One of the requirements for the Urban Plunge, the Follow­up Session, will be held Sunday at 7:30 p.m. in th Memorial Library Audiltorium. 
Students who made the Plunge are requested to meet at this time for a general session with a brilef presentation and introduction to facultY. and re­source people who will conduct the small group meetings to follow. 
Har.ris (har'is), noun 1. an international corporation headquartered ,on Florida's East Coast 2. a billion-dollar producer of worldwide communication and information processing equipment 3. a company that will challenge your skills and provide you· with the oppor­tunity to develop new technology and products 
4. a company that has faith in the new ideas that new people bring as part of our organization. That's the definition of Harris, the company that lets you define yourself. Discover what you and Harris can do for each other. We will be on campus in the next few weeks. See your Place­ment Office for information today. 
HARRIS SYSTEMS GROUP OPERATIONS. ON CAMPUS SOON. 


HARF~~S 
COMMUNICATI(.II'~ AND 
INF-QRMATlON PROCESSING 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 

economy of repressive regimes raises a moral dilemma close to ho,me. Notre Dame president Fr. Theodore Hesburgh sits on the board of Chase Manhat­tan.'' 
Since multinationals' influ­ence fosters dependency and limits independent political and economic growth, according to Walshe, the U.S. should begin to be aware that democracy is not necessarily "agressive nationalism'' as recent propa­ganda would have us believe. 
Norlins presents an opposing view wtth the argument that American business has vastly improved the standard of living in many third world countries by pouring investment capital on fO attack Walshe's liberal sta1~ce in his -editorial, ''The Povrrty of Liberalism." 
Norling queries, ''Why do libejfals persistently. attack Amq;rican business corpora­tion$ and attribute malign de­signjs to them? Why do they att .. ck as tyrannical any foreign cou1Hry that does not have a democratic government, but is friel)dly to the U.S. while ign<1>ring the incomparably more bloody regimes that are hosr~le to us?" 
Norling's more conservative view has little sympathy for the libFral stance Walshe has adopted on protecting fledgling nations from the purQorted heavy hand of big business. 


Earthquake shocks Northern California 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) . An the Lawrence Livermore Labo­
earthquake strong enough to ratory. 
crack buildings and sidewalks "Wow! It moved my refrig­
rocked hundreds of miles of erator 31/z feet, and threw all 
Northern California for more my antique bottles off the fire­
than 20 seconds yesterday, place," said Lynne Phillips, an­
swaying tall buildings and in-other Livermore resident. 
juring several dozen persons. Livermore's city adminis-
The quake, recorded at 11 tration building was evacuated 
a.m. PST; measured 5.5 on the when large slabs of the ceiling Richter scale according to Dr. collapsed. One of the hardest Bruce Bolt of the Berkeley hit areas was the Sunrise Seismographic Station and was Mobile Home Park, where 133 centered on the Antioch fault trailers were shaken from their near Livermore, 35 miles south-foundations and the residents east of San Francisco. were evacuated. About 16,000 
The tremor was followed im-people were without power for mediately by two strong after-more than an hour after the shocks that hit 5.2 and 4.8, said tremors. Bolt, adding that he expected The Lawrence Livermore La­
hundreds of smaller after­boratory was evacuated be­shocks. cause of leaking gas. Officials there reported some damage to
The Antioch fault, a small buildings, but said no damagefault line not connected to any had been suffered by the nucle­of the area's major faults, last ar research reactor.

had a quake in 1965 that meas­
ured 4. 9. Two schools in Livermore were Buildings shook in San Fran-evacuated. when gas be­cisco, in Monterey' 150 miles to gao leaking from damaged the south, in Santa Rosa, so pipes, and all 17 others later miles to the north, and in Sac-were evacuated as a precaution ramento, 90 miles to the east. while inspection crews checked The quake was felt as far away for structural damage, officials said. 
as Reno, Nev., more than 200 . h d" f <:. • 
miles east of San Francisco. . A quake wit _a rea 10~ o _, 1s 
· ..., · . .,rl• capable of do10g constderable 
~ost of tho~e inj~red were 10 damage, and one of 6 can do Ltvermore, 10clud10g a. m~n severe damage. Thursday's who fell from a ladder 10 h1s quake was one of the strongest apartment. Twenty_-fou~ people to hit the area since the great were treated for ~10or 10Ju_nes qu~ke of 1906 that leveled much at Valley Memonal Hospual, of San Francisco. The last siz­and two persons were admitted. able quake in San Francisco 





















Features 
Friday, January 25, 1980 ­
LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD 
The Syllogisms of the Devil's Logic 
Rev. 
In New York, at Christmas, a man necessary,'' he said, ''but damn the But of course some of them must sooner or said to me: "In the bars on Third flag wavers; the patriots on bar stools have sons. All the male children of a 
Avenue, they're arguing about this who would stampede the country into generation could-not have been born We either country's getting tough with Iran. horror with their hysteria. Damn the . in clusters to Irish-Catholic parents. buried.'' They're saying we should send in an old men working in offices who would War is a game young men are invited "In some burials," he said, "the 
army to save the hostages, and that send kids to fight in useless, sense­to play sooner or later; it's as living could envy the dead." we-should destroy the oil fields with less wars." inevitable as shaving. Where would ''You only say that,'' I said, bombers. They're saying we should I thought: he hasn't read the devil's all the flowers be, if each generation "because you have sons." have a confrontation with Russia over handbook; he doesn't understand the did not have its own war to fight? "I wouldn't want my kids to Afghanistan. They're saying Russia logic of events by which good men Fighting wars is part of the eternal cowards," he said, "and the)· is taking advantage of America's are forced to do evil things, if they vigilance that is the price of liberty. wouldn't want to see their coumr}< softness.'' are to remain faithful to their own "Look," I said reasonably, "You buried." . 
"The syllogisms of the devil' s logic goodness. It's pathetic how illogical don't want the Ruskies to run all over "Don't think about it," I said, "or· ; are falling into place," I said. "You people become as a result of raising us, do you?" . will spoil your Christmas." · can't argue with the devil. The meek large families that are mostly sons. "I gave in the Korean war," he said In the bars on Third A venue, they 
shall inherit their own ruin; the "All over the city," he satd, "the selfishly. support the Irish Rf.:publican Army. . peacemakers shall be called the street vendors are selling F---Iran "That's like saying you cleaned New Yorkers say that if the bars on· 
children of idiots. Blessed be the buttons and T-shirts with hate slo­your house yesterday,'' I said. Third A venue closed, the IRA would : violent nations, for they shall inherit gans printed on them. On television, "Cleaning your house today does not go out of business for lack of funds •. the spoils of the earth.'' · every night, the networks are giving mean you're not going to have and there would be peace in the 
He waited for me to shut up. ''They us countdowns on how many days the garbage to take out tomorrow. That's North of Ireland. What would the have no sons,'' he said. ''They argue hostages have been held. A national the kind of devil's world it is." Irish do witP,out a war to fight? "Oh about getting tough in the bars on mood is ,.being created that will "The devil' s world is filled with the gteat Gaels of'Ireland/ Are the Third Avenue, but they have no sons, support a war." lies," he said, "because wars never Men the Gods Drove Mad:/ For AH 
and they're too old to go to war ''I was willing to remember Pearl settle anything." their wars are MerryI And all t'heilr "The devil doesn't lie," I said, songs are sad."
themselves.'' Harbor," I said. "If I had been old 
''All of us have sons and daugh­enough, I would also have Remem­"because he doesn't have to. Events Blessed are the bar stool warriors ters," I thought; but it did not seem bered the Maine. But Putting have a logic and a necessity all their who fight for liberty with their proper to equate my fears for kids I a-hollah-in-the-Ayatollah strikes me own.'' mouths, and supply the arms love with those of this man who had "I never thought I would hear you which others may fight for libertyas a crowd-pleasing imperative -1 
seven sons of draftable age. would be smart to avoid.'' defending the devil," he said. with their blood. May they he; "My boys will go to war, if "We all compromise ourselves bless('d with many descendants. :
"They have no sons," he said. 
Social Concerns Film Series 
What'S All This, Then. · 


Gerard Curtin 
CINEMA--OFF CAMPUS 

The Electn·c Horseman at 7:15 and


Reel Concern 

9:45 University Park II. Jane Fonda
The Black Hole at 7:20 and 9:20. 

and Robert Redford star in thisForum Cinema I. Walt Disney films
--Melinda Henneberger 
pleasant film about a man whoabandon their traditional cartoon de{ Jes to follow his own conscienceLaFortune lobby for informal discus­characters with this science fictionLife in the ivory tower certainly isn't rather than to cater to commercialism sion following all films. 
film about a space station perched we could just sit up there, writing HARLAN COUNTY U.S.A. 
what it used to be. Time was when precariously on the· edge of a black The Jerk at 7:30 and 9:30. Universityhole. Starring Ernest Borgnine andpoetry and thinking great thoughts. Portraying a classic twentieth centu­Park.III.Steve Marrin Anthony Perkms. 
Of course, that was before we had ry conflict between labor and man­
The Muppet Movie at 7:00 and 9:00.
Denis Goulet, Paul Lauer, and the agement, Harlan County U.S.A. 
River Park Theater.
Kramervs. Kramer at 7:00 and 9:15.

Social Concerns Film Series. chronicles the efforts of 180 coal­Forum Cinema II. Dustin HoffmanSuddenly, it's not enoush to know mining families to win a United Mine and Meryl Streep 
about solids and loganthms and Workers contract at the Brookside profit maximizing. Now we've begun Mine in Harlan County, Kentucky. to see that political repression, world The strike began in 1974 after miners hunger, and corporate immorality are voted to join the United Mine also our concerns. We have been Workers of America and the Duke called to social awareness by the Power Company, parent company of nature of the times in which we live. the Brookside Mine, refused to sign a And the ivory tower will never be the standard U.M.W. contract. Acade­same. my Award: Best Documentary. 
Once again this semester, the Notre Produced and directed by Barbara Dam'e Student Government joins the Kopple. 1976, color. . ... Center for Experiential Learning in offering an opportunity to expand our BREAD AND CHOCOLATE developing awareness: the Social Nino (Nino Manfredi), as an Italian Concerns Film Series. Co-sponsors worker in Switzerland attempting to of the series include the American earn a meager living the Italian Scavenger Hunt at 7:15 and 9:35. Studies, Ancient Civilization, Black economy is unable to provide him, is Forum Cinema III. In this madcap Studies, Core Course, Economics, a dark misfit in a world of prospering film, the heirs of an eccentric English, Philosophy, Sociology, and blonds. His mishaps become in­millionaire are sent on a zany Theology Departments. The series creasingly degrading, yet he tena­scavenger hunt for the fortune. With will begin on Sunday, January 27, ciously refuses to leave. As our hero Tony Randall, Ruth Gordon, Cloris 
Town and run nightly through Thursday, Janu­sinks lower into the economic and Leachman, and Richard Benjamin. 

ary 31, and conclude with two final social depths, he becomes a sort of The
offerings on Monday and Tuesday, comic Everyman, eternally rejected, Going in Style at 8:00 and 10:00. February 18 and 19. Films will be yet eternally hopeful. Bread and University Park I. A threesome of shown in the Engineering Auditori­Chocolate ts both a bittersweet feisty old men conspire to rob a bank, um and the Library Auditorium. As comedy and a caustic criticism of two with amusing results. George Burns, in the past, all films will be shown national temperaments. New York Art Carney, and Lee Strasberg star. free of charge. Film Critics Award: Best Forei~n 
The Social Concerns Film Series Film. Directed by Franco.Brusatl. seeks to explore contemforary social With Nino Manfredi, Anna Karina. 
Concert: the Greenwood Consort.
problems and mora dilemnas 1978, color. 
Wednesday, January 30, at 8:1) (athrough the media of ftlm. This $1.00 fee will be charged).
semester's series dei?arts from big ALL THE KING'S MEN. 
name box-office hits 10 an effort to From the Pulitzer Prize-winning AT VEGETABLE BUDDIES: provide high-quality cinema one isn't novel by Robert Penn Warren, ·an likely to see elsewhere. Films chosen always timely drama ofaman and the Friday and Saturday, January 2 5 and for the series depict both Western political machine he built for his own 26. Jump 'n' the Saddle Band. A and Third World concerns, within the ends. The story of a Southern favorite of South Bend, this group global themes of labor and ethnic governor who won the adoration of .<·ombines elements of the big band 
relations, politics, and social and the voters with his spectacular public sound, Western swing, and country sexual equality. works, while he and his associates prov_ide a very special brand of 
The films attempt to provide a grew wealthy from graft and corrup­mustc. catalyst for the kind of reflection and tion. Broderick Crawford plays EXHIBIT discussion which will invoke viewers Governor Willie Stark with a depth of to crystallize their own views on the feeling and expression that won him Sunday, January 27 to Sunday, concerns expressed. Those who wish the Academy Award for Best Actor. February 24. Student artists present to take J?art in such a follow-up are Directed by Robert Rossen. 1949, their works at the Art Gallery in 
::ncourag~d to meet in the south end of black and white. O'Shaughnessey Hall. 
-
The Observer -Sports Friday, January 25, 1980 -page ·10 
celebrated his return with four ment,John Cox, scored his first 
goals and three assists for the career goal Friday. weekend. For his effons, the Freshman Kin Bjork and Rex . .. SMCsophomore center was named Bellamy also may miss this
... Hockey 1 

WCHA Player of the Week. week's series. 1Bjork\ was kept Poulin collected his first hat ·sidelined wirh a strained foot Seven wins in their last eight
[continued from page 11]

trick of the year Saturday with while Bellamy has a broken outings for the Belles and a. three goals m the second peri­knuckle. beginning to come into its own. date at the A.C.C. with Notre
(con#nued from page 12) od. He also was on the ice for Jeff Perry was disqualified "We're such a young team and Dame next Wednesday. This "Now we have to continue our every Irish score Saturday. from Friday's game for fighting we're not very big, but our one should be a lot closer than improvement, and playing on "There's no doubt about it," and sat out Saturday's contest. passing and our defense have the 30/oint thrashing the Irish says Smith. "Dave makes He will be back for the Michi­
the.road\against Michigan Tech rmproved tremendously since hande St. Mary's a month 
thmgs go. He is a fast skater, a gan Tech series. the season started.'' ago.
certainly will make it a chal­superb playmaker and igniteslenge. It is a young club, can the rest of the team. Hisskate well and they always give presence makes a big differ­us a tough time." 
ence.''

This series will mark the only meeting of the season berween Notre Dame broke its Friday • • • Soviets the two teams. The Huskies are night WCHA jinx with its ~-5 
in fourth place in the SCHA win. Before the game, the Insh with an 8-7-1 record and post an had won only one of seven Hormuz Straits, and boycotting
[continued from page 1] sphere, will react to this." 
overall mark of 14-9-1. ] ohn league games on Friday. Notre oil shipments from Iran. 
In London, meanwhile, For­Madness' club is led by Rich Dame also killed 12 of Colorado from any side ... ,'' Tass said in It said Carter's definition of eign Secretary Lord Carrington

Boehm in scoring. The irish and College's 14 power play at­a Washm~ton -dated dispatch. U.S. interests was an announc­announced Britain would sus­the Huskies split each series tempts. Tass said the only major ement ''for all to hear that the 
pend "for the time being" high

Three players remain ques­"outside force" in the Persian United States regards nearly
last season. 
level and ministerial contactsSome good news for Smith was tionable for this week's series. Gulf area was an American ~h~ wh_ole world as its sphere of with the Soviet Union, cancel 

the return of Dave Poulin to the Junior defenseman Scott Cam­Naval force -"the biggest vital mterests' without being military exchanges berween the 
lineup against Colorado Col­eron may miss his fourth armada of naval forces,'' and interested in the least how the rwo countries and beam more lege. Poulin had missed three straight week of play with a said Americans were the only countries, which his administ­radio broadcasts into Russia games with the measles, but strained knee. His replace-ones blocking the Gulf and the ration intends to include in this. and Afghanistan . 
He added that Britain also will not renew the trade agree­ment with the Soviets nego­

Molarity by Michael _Molinelli tiated by the previous govern­
ment. The a~reemenr granting credit faciliues to the Soviets 



expires next month.
NO.I DON'T T)./INK :I
MR CHN.J? I TJ.I!NJ< 
GRI=ATY AI?£ YOUA 


''The Russians must under­
I MIGHT BE 1N7E~ESTED 
WANT 17> PasE IF I
1\brRE DAME GIRL OR 
stand that there can be no ... 
HAVE TO 1AK£ XF HY 
relationship so long as they be­
fv!OJ.bGRAHI1£D SWEATER 
have as outrageously as they have done in Afghanistan," Carrington said, referring to Moscow's dispatch last Christmas of U,P to 100,000 Soviet troops to Its neighbor to the south. the British Government cheered Carter's speech. 
"We agree fully,"said Foreign Office spokesman david Brightly. 

by Jun McOure/Pat Byrnes
Pigeons 
Profs
' ' ' 


[continued from page 1) 
time," Arnold said. "Other world states have been chang­ing, and we're formulating new judgements about them.'' 
Arnold discounted the notion of Carter "losing his virginity" in foreign policy matters as too simplistic a view . 
•''Carter came into office in the midst of a long period of detente. In the last couple of 

\;•· years11 'rhe Soviet Union' 1h'as 


ACROSS 27 Mechanical 52 Put Into 18 Antiseptic 1 Luggage arm symbols 19 Passageway 6 BeardeQ 28 Baste 55 Cummerbund 24 River in

The Daily Crossword 
monkey 31 Virtue 56 High priest France 

•. ,. 34 Musical of rsrael 25 Robards
10 He loves:·

' Lat. work 58 Erbium and 27 Interjection 14 The-, 36 Gain 
cerium 28 Befit -,. Netherlands\ 37 Moral 61 Riled 29 Circular 15 Ready for nature 62 Eat.spar-­currei'Jt . business 39 Secrete lngly 30 Tiny . 16 Bird of 40 Play by 63 Kovacs 31 Earth . ; ~ • ...
. oddesS .. ·~.:;
Australia. Euripides · 64 Some votes 17 Not settled 42 Holiness 65 Maxims 32 ghurc"­20 Liquor 44 -Paulo 66 Roper's calendar 33 Footnote

21 Dotlf!O . 45 Lopsided rope , 22 Responsible 47 Chinese abbr. 
23 ComiC.· dynasty DOWN 35 Old pronoun imitatioh1 48 Five, in 1 Heyerdahl 36 River in 25 Ferrer or ·"' Fob( 2 Incurred, Germany Greco 49 Ancient as debts ~ ·38 Split 26 -polloi .· gstlley 3 Genus of 4t Stage ... lizards whisper 4 Small dog 43 North
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

5 Prawns,· Carolinian for example .46 Massages 6 Tufts or 48 Students 
Liston 49 Coins of 7 Footless Thailand 8 Indian hemp 50 Wealth 9 Flood 51 Havelock ­
10 Water 52 Silkworm plants 53 Not one 11 Ancient 54 Western Syrian Indian kingdom 55 Boil slowly 12 Seed 57 Lake in covering Lombardy 13 River in 59 Creek England 60 --Ia-Ia 
obviously been more aggres­sive," he said. Francis called the situation in the Middle East a difficult position for the United States, and he stressed that Carter is n.~t using scare tactics. 

A lot of pressure h:ts been put on President Carter to make such a move, and I feel that he ­is serious about it,'' he said. 
Do.wty felt thafCarter's new -· 
.~ta~ce inf.•~pe iil:iddle. ~ast is T JUsttfied b .,.f'ec~t Soviet ac­tions. "The Carter Doctrine, as 
, it is called,· simply restates the obvious, and it could be a good __ time for doing it," he said. Carter's hard-line position was also reaffirmed by Arnold. "We want to signal to the Soviets that we are serious and have resolve, and that any further action will be met with resistance," he said. Carter identified the line that can't be crossed.'' Arnold criticized the Presi dents message for not addres­sing related problems within the United States, especially ener~y issues. "Carter said the Persian Gulf is vital to our interests-that we'd /o to war over it-but we woul be better off if we weren. t dependent on the oil-producing nations in the first place." 
Friday, January 25, 1980-page 11
The Observer -Sports 


Sports Briefs 
SMC-ND ski teams to compete 
Both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame's women's ski clubs will comkete at Chrystal Mountain in Thom~sonville, Mich. this wee end. The Midwest Collegiate S i Association ruled earlier this year that the two schools can not send one team to rehresent both schools. Monica Paas, Patty Wilson, Nancy Sc eft, and Maggie Noonan were chosen to represent the Belles after time trials at Timber Ridr in Kalamazoo, Mich. earlier in the week. Tjping a field o 12 for the five spots on the Notre Dame squa were Reni Nacheff, Maura Murphy, Mimi Dobrowski, Leslie Costello and Joan Soranno. 

Water polo club to gather Sunday 
The Notre Dame water J?Oio club will be holding a meeting this Sunday at 6:30 h.m. m the LaFortune Ballroom. Topics to be discussed inc ude the sprin~ and summer water polo seasons, weight training, games sc edule for the spring, and NCAA game films. 

Tracksters host tri-meet 
The Notre Dame track team will tansle with Northwestern University and Loyola University ofChtcago tonight at 7 .p.m. in the North Dome of the ACC. It will be the first home meet for the Irish in their indoor track season. 

McGuire, Packer guest on WSND 
NBCTV's color commentary tandem of AI McGuire and Billy Packer will join Skip Desjardin and Rob Simari tomorrow on "Sports Saturday." The show airs at p.m. on WSND, AM-64. ... 

Pre-Maryland pep rally tonight 
Studt;nts are invited to come and show their spirit at the pep rally m preparation for tomorrow's nationally-televised contest against Maryland. The rally is scheduled to begin at 7:30p.m., and Irish coach Digger Phelps, the Notre Dame band and cheerleaders, and a special guest will be featured. 

Gymnasts open fourth season 
The Notre Dame/St. Mary's Gymnastics team opens its fourth season tomorrow at Miami of Ohio. This is ·the farewell season for the three founders of the team, seniors Bob Meehan, Dan Howley and]ohn Paulik. The meet will be against Miami, Purdue and West Virginia. 
• • • SMC 

[continued from page 12] 
punch in the mouth, the Belles put on a 12-2 spurt at the start of the second session. Sweeney hit a layup off the tap. Freshman Maureen King, who totaled 14 rebounds, added two steals and four points. Arm­strong converted a three-point 
play  and  the  Belles  cruised  
home from there.  
When  sophomore  Mary  

Zuehlke nit a free throw with 
1:52 to play, all eleven Belles were in the scorebook and the lead reached its biggest margin at 83-34. 
Dallessio was much happier with the 45-21 second half. 'Tm very pleased with the defense," he said. "We cer­tainly hustled better and showed more intensity.'' 
With only one senior. co-cap­rain Nancy Nowalk, in the starring lineup with four fresh­men, Dallessio feels his team is 
[continued on page 10] 
-

All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m .. two days prior 
to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept 
classifieds Monday through Friday, ~0:00a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail.




Classifieds 
Notices Students interested in helping Phil Crane win the Mock Republican nomination should attend the organizational meeting, Tuesday, 7:00 p.m., 2-C LaFortune, or call Tom 3207.  heart. call 1650. Anyone whO "accidentally" picked up my SR-51-11 calculator and left an SR·40 in its place on the 8th floor of the library during finals last semester, I would appreciate it trememdously if you would leave the SR-51-11 at the library lost-and-found, and I will leave the SR-40 there the following day.  
All Judo Club members please meet at the Rockne on Sunday, Jan. 27th at 2:00 p.m.  I  Found: bracelet in front of Hayes· Healey on Wednesday, Jan. 23. Call to identify 8742. Ask for Mike.  
Gay students of ND/SMC: Gay lnforma· lion. phone 8870, 10·12 pm, Friday & Saturday, Jan. 25 & 26.  For Rent  
Typing in my heine. Pick up and delivery if needed. IBM Selectric typewriter. Phone 674·8367.  ApartMents and houses for rent now & Sept. 1980, cali 234·9364.  

Join the Ben Fernandez campaign for the 
Rooms for Rent·-$40.00-month. Near
1980 Mock Convention. Call 1165 to sign 
Rides. 233·1329.

up or get more info. 
House for rent, close to campus, excellentAll Urban Plungers: Urban Plunge follow-up. 7:30 pm, Sunday, Jan. 27th, 
condition. Can accomodate four women Memorial Library Auditorium. 
students. For information call Greg or Linda Cress 287-5361 after 7:00 p.m. 
SENIORS, LEARN SOME INTERVIE'MJ 
lNG ~LLS BEFORE IT'S TOO LA1'El!!-~,,.., One vacancy. 4 man apartment. Campus 
Attend the Interview Workshop on Jan.  V1ew Apartments. Call 277-1742.  
28 at 6 p.m. in the Student Affairs Conference Room. Sign up in the Career Development Center ,SMC.  1 bedroom for rent in 3 bedroom home, on Ironwood Rd. Call 277-0556.  
IF YOU DON'T KNOW WHERE YOU ARE GOING• YOU MIGHT END UP IN THE WRONG PLACEn Join the Career Development Explora­ - We rent dependabel cars from $7.95 a day and 7 cents a mile. U~y Duckling Rent·a·car, 921 E. Jefferson lvd. Misha· waka, Ind. 255-2323.  
lion Group.  Meetings every Wednesday  
•rom 4·5. Sign up in the Career Develop·  Several houses for rent close to campus  
ment Center, SMC.  excellent  condition,  can  .accommOdate  
four to five students each. For info call  
Gref Cress 287-5361 after 7p.m.  

Lost&Found 
Wanted 

Lost: lt··Yes, I'm losing all that I own. Two sets of keys, 1set with purple key, 1 One refrigerator lor the semester. Call set with 2 VW keys, 1 Georgia driver's 7850. liscense. Please call Andy at 234-6353. 
All interested students: High payingLost: Lady's gold wristwatch, brand part·time jobs on campus...you set the name Elgin, flat link band 1/9" wide with hours. Write: Collegiate Press. Box 556,clasp. A special gift from my folks·-Belleville, Mich., 48111. No obligation.please help! 1 SubStantial reward if returned. Call 1986. Instructor wanted to teach MCAT class. 
Call collect 317·463-7541. 

Lost:  Tiny Swiss army knife. Call Janice  
at 287-5543.  Roommate wanted  to  share house.  2  
miles from campus. Excellent nei~hbor·  
Lost:  MacGregor  XIOL  basketball  at  hood. $125/mo. Call John 233·657  .  
ACC. Please call 277·3047.  IUSB Dental Hygienist's need patients.  
Lost: a blue ~ki jacket with green and wh1te side stripes. Lost Saturday night at  $7.00 charge to clean teeth. Call 232-0091 after 5 pm.  
the Flanner basement party. please call Kate 41·5220.  If found,  Please Help! 1 Attendants needed for handicapped man in Fisher Hall. One  
Found: Girl's Timex watch from semester hayride. call Jim 3206.  last  hour in the-morning and half an hour at night. For Tues.-Fri. morning. Pays $3.50 an hour. This is an excellent opportunity  
Found: Girl's ring on South Quad. . Bnan 3017.  Call ·  for nursing students. Phone 7266 and leave name and no. for Mike Ogorzaly.  
Found:  Gold bracelet with  locket and  2 females  live  Jan.  free!  2 spaces  
Needed: 4-6 GA Basketball tix for Davidson. Maryland, N.C. State, & Marquette. Call Gordon at 3087. 


available at ND Apt. 20. Spacious, only Desperately need 2GA Davidson tickets. a second semester senior great?' $82/month. Call 7129, 7812, or 7570. Tom 1811. Neil 
.... 

Wanted: Baby s1tter for 1 1/2 year old. Tuesdays 12·5 p.m. Near campus. 232·9541. 
For Sale 
Pro-American "HEY IRAN" defiance T-shirts available. $5 delivered. 3colors, 4 sizes. Phone 1866 for details. 
Phonoautograph telephone answering service--needs repair, best offer. Dave 3637. 
Fnr Sale: Technics SA·200 receiver, 25 watts ..04 THO. Purchased right before school. $140. Call8221. 
Greek Religion books for sale. Call Carol 3848. 
Fnr Sale: 76 Electra. 40,000 mile. Exc. condition. Call Bob 1744. 
Raichle Strata ski boots mens' size 8. This year's model. New. Call Jay 3815. 


Tickets . 
1need 2GA DePaul tickets for Dad before I graduate. Mick 8212. 

Multiple Dayton GA's needed. Offers. 'Mick 8212. · 
Desperately need 4 or 5 tickets to N.C. State game. Call Ed 1687. 
Need GA's to Dayton game. Help me-Mick 8212. 
NEED DEPAUL TICKETS 
I 1 I 
CALL 277-2344 or 7857 
Desperately need DePaul tickets. Student or GA. Call Paul 1027. 
Desperately need one Marquette B·Ball ticket. Call Bill 277-5779. 
Need 4 GA's to Maryland game. Call 8736. 
Help! Desperately need DePaul GA's. Carol 277·1365. 
Help! Need 2 GA Marquette tickets. Call Karen 6798. 
I desperately need up to 4 GA tickets.for the North Carolina State basketball game. Call Jeff at 3511. 
Desperately need Maryland GA tix!! Call 4·1·5154. 
P.S. I hope you've learned your lesson about not mixing books with politics!
Maryland tix wanted! Will pay$$$. Joe P.P.S. Happy Birthday, Andy!!
1048.. 
Andrea·I am a buyer of Feb. 27, Notre Happy Birthday tanned one, may se·Dame·DePaul tickets. Call Peter Laverty. 
curity give you less "gifts" this year than
Collect 312·726·2883. 
in the past. RyanPlease! I need 3 tix for Maryland game. 
P.S. anytime you want to help me get up
Call Margie 41-4161. 

in the morning, give me a call. Desperate! Need two tickets to Maryland 
Buddha-for a map to Fat Shirley's callgame. (GA). Call Rob 2106. 
41·4123. 
Need GA tix to any home bball game. Paul 3121. 
PFISTER Joe invites the Lyon's foxes, Walsh's brothel employees, and Lewis's lunatics to his special Happy Hour today.
Need student and GA tix for DePaul bball Be there, I won't?
game. Paul 3121. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY ED!
I need 2GA's for any NO home basketball 
Love.
game. Will pay top dollar! Caii.Jeff 8764. 

That Southern Belle in BP I need two GA tickets for the Davidson 
Pa·
game. Feb. 2. If you have any available, Happy Birthday. Sorry it's late, but here
please call Jana 6927.

. it is anyways Have a beer. John 

Personals 
Paddington I, Hope you have a great time tonight, Don't get too embarrassed this time!! 
Love, Paddington II 
Hi Patti-Have a great day! Love, Mike 
Scholastic Production Nights Sunday and Monday, 6:30 Football Review-everyone invited. 
Jim Elser is 21 today, time to celebrate. The Gad Quad does it right tonight as our favorite hippie is now legal. Be there. There is no free lunch. . 
NO·SMC WOMEN: 
Prepare yourselves for the 1st annual Jimmy Jones party. With dreaded drink specials imparted from Guyana. Don't for get crsunglasses. Saturday, 9:00 p.m.1st loor Howard Hall 
The Reverend 
Keara (I can carry it, no problem) Smyth, 
May you have the best of birthdays on Sunday! Here's to a great semester! Now that you're 21, we can sit 'round a big roaring fire drinking tumblers of punch! (But you still have to clean the disco room this week). 
Love, Marilyn
P.S. Should I get married? 
PFISTER Jofi's-liiOwo~i. Where drunken fantasy becomes a reality. 
Andrea, 
This isn't one of those "Hey guys, call Andrea (277·5918) to wish her a happy birthday...you won't regret it" personals. (I'd never do that to you.) 
Ijust want to wish you ahappy 22nd and say that now that you've forsaken your books and have become a full-fledged ~ven·night·a·week party-er ... Isn't life as 

j 
Happy Birthday John 1 Remember--this is my weekend. Be prepared'' ......__..-Love. Terri 
Hey Girls' Jim Flick is coming to town. Call 277·5072 for dating arrangements. 
PFISTER JOE's blowout special! Madeline has slashed prices. Your every desire only half price. Group rates . available. 
SMOKER' given by SMC Business Club··Monday. 10·1 at Senior Bar. 3/$121 m·s please. 
PFISTER JOE'S blowout--today 3:30·6:00 Be there··aloha' 
Bandmembers: Orders for Tokyo and marching candids must be made b~ Friday, 1·25·80. Order today: · 
·a everyone who made any money working at The Observer in 1979: There is a W-2 waiting for you in the office. 
Show us your musical talent··perform a: the SMC Coffehouse 1 Interested? Call Jean Acton 41·4974 
Hedonism night at Senior Bar Friday night, Jan. 25th. Be there! 
Come to Post-Maryland Happy Hour at the Senior Bar. 3 Beers for a $1. 

Mary Hayes is 21 years old today. Cal! . her at 8060 and wish her glad tidings. 
ML· Happy 21st. MB 

Happy 22nd Birthday Tommy MeDer­mott. Love and kisses" Little Rascal 
-


Friday, January 25, 1980 -page 12


~orts 

SMC's Armstrong tnasters Pipers 
by Gary Grassey court leader came as a result of fundamental errors on de­Sports Wn'ter a devastating press and fast­fense,'' criticized the Belles' break by the Belles. second year mentor. "We 
With· only 3:47 gone in the "In high school, our strategy talked about not giving up the game, the score was Anne was a lot like it is at St. baseline and cutting off that low Armstrong 8, Purdue-Calumet Mary's," said Armstrong after post.'' 
0. During the final 36 minutes, the game, "So I guess you So with all the subtlety of a Armstrong's St. Mary's team­could say I'm used to it because 
[continued on page 11]
mares joined forces with their we ,~eat teams by running a 5-5 freshman basketball wizard lot. and the Belles (8-4) went on to The Belles recorded 14 first annihilate their guests from half steals with their pressing Calumet 85-41, last night at the game which usually translated 
Hockey team
Angela Athletic Facility. mto layup drills by the bunch ''Anne Armstrong is a real against the taller, but slower hustler," commented St. Purdue unit. Freshman Cheryl Mary's coach Jerry Dallessio. Sweeny(16 points) and Mary 

takes on 

"She does so many things on Bayless had four steals apiece the court. She's quick, she in the half for St. Mary's The plays good defense, she's an Belles defense permitted the 

Mich Tech
excellent passer, and she's a Pipers a mere 22 shots, com­good shooter." And she's only pared to 40 by St. Mary's 
by Bnan Beglane 
a freshman. running five. 
Sports Wn'ter 

On the evening, Armstrong Despite the rwenty point gap, tallied 24 points--18 of those Dallessio was nor pleased with came in the first half as the his squad's intensity as he The Notre Dame hockey teamBelles bolted to a 40-20 lead at spoke in· the lockerroom at attempts to continue its climbintermission. Most of those halftime. "We weren't hust­back up the ladder in thepoints by the maturing back-ling and we were committing Western Collegiate Hockey As­sociation this weekend when it travels to Houghton, Mich., for a two-game series with the
Terrapins invade ACC, 
Huskies of Michigan Tech. Faceoff Friday night is sche­duled for 8:00 EST while Satur­

promise tough contest 
day's game is set for 7:30 EST. Both games of the series will be by Mark Perry pins invade the ACC for a broadcast back to South Bend Sports Editor nationally-televised contest, by WNDU-AM radio. beginning at 1:30 p.m. After dropping three of their 
The Notre Dame basketball Maryland, coached by veteran last four WCHA games and six team faces one of their toughest Charles "Lefty" Driesel, has of their last seven overall, the home contest rhus far this been one of the surprise teams Irish came back to sweep
1lreshman sensation Anne Armstrong led Saint Mary's to a 
season, as the Maryland Terra-in the Atlantic Coast Confer­Colorado College, 6-5 and 5-3,
85-41 win over Purdue-Calumet by dropping 24 points 
ence this season. With wins this past weekend to even their
thruugh the hoop. [photo by Rick Dohn'n&;] 

over Clemson and North Caro­league record at 8-8 and pull lina this past week, the Terps into a tie for sixth place with have grabbed the ACC lead Wisconsin. Overall Notre
Plays fo_r fun · a record. Dame is 12-11.
with 6-1 Overall Maryland stands at 14-2, cur­''Saturday night we put toge­rently ranked 14th in the na­ther the first three solid periods
Branning enjoys basketball 
tion. of hockey that we have played The Terps boast a solid front in a long rime," says Irish 
Iim Naismith was probably just out to have a 
line, including their rwo leading coach Lefty Smit!-1, who contin­little fun when he challenged himself to toss a scorers, Albert King and Ernest ues to approach the 200-win ball into an elevated peach basket some 89 years Graham. King, a 6-6 junior, mark as coach of Notre Dame. ago. leads the team with a 21.3 With the two recent wins,
Paul
In today's game of basketball, however, the scoring average and also aver-­Smith is now-three victories element of fun has seemingly taken a back seat ages 6 rebounds per game. away from the 200-win plateau. to attendance figures, television timeouts, and Graham, a 6-7 junror who can "We really needed thts week­

Mullaney 
~echnical fouls. Except with Rich Branning, that play guard or forward, averages end. We had put ourselves in a IS. 19. 5 ppg and is second in hole by dropping three of four Before the current season started, Branning, felt the basketball would take care of itself. rebounding with a 8. 7 average. on the road and could not afford Notre Dame's senior guard and co-captain, ''Rich Branning has a burning desire to be the Sophomor~ Buck Williams, a to fall any deeper. It was a committed himselfto play for nothing more than best player he could possibly be. I wouldn't be ·6-8 center, rounds our the front must-win situation, and we 
the pure enjoyment of the game. And, perhaps it able to be honest with myself if I didn't put the line. Williams averages 10.8 came through. is no coincidence that the Californian is enjoying effort into it. I want to be able to look into the rebounds per game to lead 
[continued on /Jaf!.e 101 
the best season of his career. mirror and say that I gave it my best shot.'' Maryland, and also averages 14 ''Right now I feel a lot more confident on the Even if his best shot doesn't allow him to reach points a contest. court," says Branning, who is averaging 1_3. 5 
Junior Greg Manning provides ' points an outing and has rwice as many asststs the professional ranks, . the scoring punch from the as any teammate.''! probably am playing better Branning ~opes to ~ema~n backcourt, averaging 14.6 M than ever before, but only because for the last involved 10 athletics 10 points per game. The other 

atvey paces 
couple of years I lost stght of the fact that some form.-starting guard, sophomore basketball was meant to be tun." Dutch Morley, dishes out most 
I • h • 

Branning will be the first to tell you that last ''I'm applying to South­of the assists for the Terps, rts Wffi Saturday's 80-73 win over UCLA was the most ern Cal for grad school in averaging 6. 5 assists per game fun he has had in a long rime. After aU, he could sports administration,'' to lead Maryland by a wide • Ch• only manage to miss one of nine field goal margin. lfi tcago
says the management ma­attempts in a 20-point performance that many jor. "I love the sports Notre Dame will be looking for feel was his best since arriving at Notre Dame. atmosphere and the peo­another strong game from The Notre Dame women's 
·'I ·think I ,_an attribute everything to the great L---1ilfl"---~iio;;......l pie involved. [' d like to be Tracy Jackson, who seems to basketball team. paced by Shari deal of soul-searchine rhat I did after last Rich Branning in professional sports in have hit a hot streak after his Matvey's 18 points, 13 re­st·:hon,' 'lw poinh ou~'That_,r trip to Yugoslavia, some respect. miracle shot against Villanova. bounds, and 7 blocked shots, 
plu~ r('mainmg here over the summer, did a lot "I think ~thletics i~ a tremendous way for Jackson, who hails from Silver topped University of Chicago for nw. [ had lots of time tll think. pcop!e to enjoy life. You can get away from the ·springs, Maryland, had one of 70-61 last night. Aiding Mat­·'I r•·alized rhar rhi~: : ould be n :· last year of pressures of day-to-day living. lt's kind of a ~1s finest .games against the vey's efforts ar Chicago were , lllllpc-tirivt· l:3skctball, :md fr-lt I shouldenjoy it. healthy high. Yo1 can use your God-given ' erps two years ago. The Kelly Hicb with 13 points and 8 1 h;.;-1 !"rgottr-n .dl :tbu,·r the gar,-... I starred tak·nts 'u relax.'' junior forward ,arne off the r<-h\•und:,.. Tri~h Mcmanus hit­'njoyin~ wh<·fl I wa~ s1;; ye:.trs olrl · . \'j'-.ile •.thl< rics h;.~o, fl. ~med the framework !,)[ benl'h. iu S< ;;re nine po; •.,s in ting 11 p· ·.rm-. and Missy Con­1;-:•tn'""' tnw-.rn:-u ;;. fr-el :hili ·, untor --;; ·n:H :, ot Branning'~ hL, ir hasn't eliminated th, :!:Je Ia.~; seven minures to ice a, hoy''1ntr:: .Jtlng 10 points whilt­rl:r-v , 11' hi-:n-will <mqu.--stion~hi) ger a;-• t;•• ·-nt clt~P'' ms ,:,.,,; Ji.i,:h feels .are of g::ear ~.'1 5·1 N";re Dame vic. ,1ry. NBc hauling in i t rebound:;_ Th~· of'll:,,ni''·w,-t" :•b' pmf.-,~::i::,,>~· :,aJL especially 1mr"•rtance. named Iacksun lh<:ir i•l<"•' r:r ot v· i1. 1~u~h( ·, tl,, Irish rt rord ro ,;J~>' ,, pr·n-..~ ··,u•-·.:':fr,-,,-·thefloo_t doesn'• · ·J' ._,· always tried •~-... ok "' basketball as an the gan~c ·,r ·:har , ·-r,, ·,. · 9-·; wi·:ih-' :ti1 <1go ft ,fl,tirh v·ith 
at

ialt~'r. \-HI f\nmnmg w:; ddn·· m10d that irnpc;.-raf\i ~·::~rt of'''/' lifc,' h~: :;ay::. ·But it':~ ilOf Norr. !1:1111e's ~,iJ..f;'•-,~~-cent!.~r, a;,; a w;n 0-7. 1 h, Nor:•· . -~ ·\ •!_I-IIi I )1 i '-· -;t .. "::··Hi,· Branr11nl! ·_ :1.!1 ai.··•n. -~ :-_, ·c ;-~·· •-.: ., ... ! >rl:·n:l.. W,;olririp-,, ,-,·h-• was Dlln'· \.<>o:·.,·n will 11CX' hn· l ...... ' ,. . '· ..... ; . ; tl; ~: ;. ll.l:tlll :o pia~· . -.,w 'n dr-al with pcl)pl..-c.-.d h:.c:.t to, tgan:{:.e -"!Y sid, ·:.,!'d \'{!edne~dav aganl!>t ivJn.,r;t S . .;nt ! •>Sept,',, Cdle··· ',, ..... ; ''. ..,, I •• h ,JI ..... sJ-:.-:.jJ, L. i;-H ." -:: ·_ i1 . · vc-rv heaJtl· " ! .ani~;i.J:. with a heel inf•. ;"n frot· ":i111 ·nnati. Oh. on S:I·Hr T · ;:,.,: also be •.•.·; · ,".,hi Ju·· ask R·, h i~. ,_:::.. -.e-cted to i'etui n ."r tht tLr toil. ··r.··. :1,,. 11lt'll·:. 
: .• ·; 
Br: ,-,.,-,g. M:n ·:and gamt.<. with Mw)'l:wd.
1 










