...Interhall-Page 12. 

• • • • • • t • .... 
, 
Police lllonitor 'five point' area following residents' colllplaints 
VOL. XIV, NO, 106 an mdl""pendent student newspaper s~rving notre dam!"" and saint mary's jFRIDAY, MARCH 14, 19~0 
~ ~ .. ,· • • • • --• • • " 
by Betsie Boland StaffReporter 
Complaints from area residents _have led ?outh Bend city officials to closely momter bars 10 the "five point" area. . . 
According to city attorney Dr. Rtchard Htll, the biggest environmental problem that the area residents around the "five points" bar district must deal with is students. "Actually, circum­stances are to the. p~int th~t th~ neighborhood has had it," he satd 10 an tntervtew yesterday. 
''What we hope to develop is a situation in which behavior in this neighborhood is compa­rable to that on campus," Hill said. 
Hill emphasized that the police ar~ not out to arbitrarily bust underage patrons 10 the area bars including Corby's, Ntckie's, and Goose's Nest; rather, they would like to fairly enforce the law to alleviate excessive noise, litter, blocked streets and sidewalks and vandalism. 
''People who like the neighborho~ and are happy with their homes have comP.Iatned to the city, saying they have had it," Htll contended. ''Underage dnnking is prevalent and the maximum occupancy laws, designed to protect patrons as well as residents, have been ignored in the past. Fire is definitely a hazard," Hill said. 

With the cooperation of the University, Hill hopes to further protect t~e residential ~rea by correcting the notse and lttter problem, u: a?dt­tion to cutting down on the underage dnnk10g. "We only ask that everyone comply with the law. We are not trying to close down (the bars); we're merely trying to clean up the neighbor­hood," he emphasized. 
"The situation at Goose's last week could have turned into a bad situation because of a couple of students' provocations. T~is is exactly the type of situation we want to av01d, and we want to try to prevent it before it occurs." he said. · 
Professor Arthur Quigley, a resident of the area and the head of the Northeast Neighborhood Council concurred· with HilL "Our major complaint is that a small percentage of the tavern clientele, not necessarily students, are not neighborly p!""ople. People who throw litter, urinate in the yards, whether fifteen or fifty, are not acting as neighbors," Quigley stated. "It 
[continued on pafZe 4] 



Jury vindicates Ford on reckless holllicide charge 
Britzsh poet Roy Fisher read a collection of his poetry. to
WINAMAC, Ind. (AP) -A "jury The tl.ree teen-agers were we had." 
1students in the Library Auditon·um yesterday. [Photo by
from the nation's heartland burned to d~ath when their 
Dave Rumbach].
''The jury has spoken and
yesterday found Ford Motor 1973 Pinto exploded in flames 
that's our system. I'm disap­
Co. innocent of reckless homi-after being hit from behind by a 
pointed ofcourse, but that's the
cide charges in the first crimi-van on an Indiana highway in 
way the system works,'' Cosen­
nal prosecution of a corporation August 1978. The state con­tino said. 
in a products defects case -a tended defects in the subcom­
Fisher entertains audience 
verdict the prosecutor said pact's fuel system made it likely Earl Ulrich of Osceola, Ind., "vindicates" the giant automa-to leak fuel in rear-end crashes father of two of the three ker. at low to moderate speeds. victims in the 1978 crash on with assortment ofworks 
Defense attorney James F. Ford attorney's said the force U.S. 33 near Goshen, Ind., said Neal said the acquitals on of the impact, rather than any of the verdict: ''I'm very disap­
by Gary Cuneen phrases," consisting of authe~­
charges stemming from the alleged defect, caused the gaso­pointed...But this has nothing tic and self-created letters wnt­fiery highway deaths of three line tank to explode. to do with us. This was the state Visitin~ the U.S. for the first ten to him, expressing theteen-agers showed even a giant The verdict came in the fourth of Indiana against Ford Motor time, Bntish poet Roy Fisher plight of an unknown ~t. Hiscorporation can win the day if it day of the jury's deliberations, C0. " treated the Sophomore Literary readings exposed his warm,has "a fair and reasonable including a marathon session Killed in the crash were Judy Festival with an assortment of modest personality, and werestory.'' that went into the early morn-Ulrich, 18, the driver, her sister his little-known works. He be­received with laughter from the "We just felt the state never ing hours yesterday. 
Lyn Ulrich, 16, and their cousin gan his presentation by reading audience.
presented enough evidence to Chief Prosecutor Michael Co­Donna Ulrich, 18. a piece entitled, "Para-Born in a town near theconvince us that Ford was semino said after the verdict industrialized city of Birming­guilty," said jury foreman Ar-that there was a "strong possi-----· ham, England, Fisher basedthur Selmer. bility'' he would appeal the much of his ~try on hisHowever, juror James Yurgi-judge's rulings in the case. Justice ... 
interpretation of Birmingham.
las and several others also said Defense attorney Neal, whose 
When Birmingham was beingthey believed the Pinto was not fee in the case has been torn down and reconstructed
Gacry to J;e ;n cha;r
a safe car. reponed at $1 million, said of a Ult 11 11 after it was bombed, Fisher"I felt the Ford (Pinto) was a possible appeal: "I don't care realized a sense of loss of thereckless automobile, but we about the appeal. They can CHICAGO (AP) _ The same and three guards. old Birmingham, and saw thecouldn't actually prove they appeal all the points of law they jury that convicted John W. 
Gacy never said a word as the construction of its modern re­didn't do everything in their want. I'm through with the Gacy, Jr. of murdering 33 boys judge told him he was sen­placement. 
power to recall it." case." and young men decided yester-tenced to death. At this same time, Fisher's Defense witnesses, mostly He said later: ''I'm awfully day that he should die in the 
Gacy was led from the room farber was approaching death,Ford executives, had said the pleased. It is the most difficult electric chair. 
with his lips clamped tightly, and the coinciding of these automaker authorized emer-case I've ever tried. The state When the court clerk read the looking straight ahead. situations motivated Fisher to gency procedures and spared had an easy emotional case, but jurors' decision, thf:re was a write about Birmingham. HeThe death penalty automatic­no expense to implement a we had a less emotional case b f 1 d h ah 
Voluntary recall Of 1971-1976 b d c d. urst o app ause an urr s ally is appealed to the Illinois created an assemblage of writ­
ecause we were eien mg a from parents, relatives and ings on the fall and rebuilding
Supreme Court.
Pintos and Mercury Bobcats, big corporation." friends of the victims. The of Birmingham. 
The death sentence was im­after the government informed Cosentino, who led a spartan outburst was quickly subdued In his poem entitled "Enter­posed for 12 murders Gacythe company of defects in the state effort that included fund-by security guards. 
tainment of War, " he speaks ofcommitted after June 21, 1977,cars that made them likely to ing of about $20,000 and the The jury of seven men and -the 1940 bombing, and hiswhen Gov. James R. Thompsonexplode when hit from beh10d. use of volunteer help, said the five women took two hours and views at age ten. Characterizedsigned the state capital pun­
The mother of two of the verdict "vindicates" Ford. 1~ minutes to reach the de-by vivid imagery, as are most of
ishment statute. In each case,victims told the jury that the He said: "It means to me that cision. They deliberated an hts works, "Brick Dust andthe victim. s name was read 'by family did not receive its recall manufacturers can make any hour and a half Wednesday Sunlight" described the city'sthe clerk. 
notice until six months after the kind of car they want to and it's b c · · h' ewre convtctmg rm. decay. In "Seven Attempted
Earlier, the defense had
crash. up to the public to decide if they Gacy was sttting as the Moves,'' Fisher summarized
asked that the jury be dis­
In Dearborn, Mich., word of want to buy it or not. I do not verdict was read, staring the feelings of the city by
charged and replaced by a newthe acquittal was taken into a personally believe that corpora-straight ahead with no expres­pitting the old and antiquatedone for the sentencing phase. 
meeting of Ford's board of tions are doing what they can to sion on his face. 
rmages of freedom versus theAttorney Sam Amirante tolddirectors. Henry Ford II, who help the people of this country, Judge Louis B. Garippo set defined images of industrial­Garippo that "obviously (thestepped down from the job of but the jury apparently does." June 2, 1980 as the date of ized society.
jury) was predisposed in find­chairman during the meeting, After the verdtct, he shook the ·execution. Gacy stood before ing Gacy guilty and was out
said "everyone was highly elat~ hands of fellow prosecu~ 'rs, him flanked by his attorneys [conh·nued on page 5]
only an hour and ~0 minutes ... 
ed" by the acquittal ~ews. -___saying to cone, "We gave It all_.­
.--. ·~-~,... ,....: ~~ --~~ 


C:CltJ1~_\l__S________~------~-----------m-·da_y,_M_M_ch_14_,_19_8o_~a-ge_2 
Friday, March 14 
11: 15am LEC1URE, "variablility & plasticity (modillability) of intellectual aging," dr. paul baltes, pa. st. univ. HAGGAR HALL AUD. spons: psycholo~· dept. 
12pm ONCE AGAIN -THl::. ·PANISH TABLE, eat lunch with professors, spons: spanish dub, don't miss the social event of the week, RIGHT/RIGHT-SOUTH DINING HAll. 
12:15pm BIOLOGY DEPT. TRAVELOGUE, "beautiful nev. mexico," prof. don vogl, nd, GALVIN AUD. 
1:30pm SYMPOSIUM, islam in the contemporary world" CARROLL HALL SMC. 
2pm STATIONS OF THE CROSS AND BENEDICTION, spons: alumni hall, ALUMNI HALL CHAPEL. 
2pm MASS, spons: friends of the mentally retarded and l'arche, MOREAU HALL. 
4:30pm LECI1JRE, "purgatora 2b" guido almansi, spons: modern language dept. 22 HAYES-HEALY. 
5:15pm MASS, "bulla shed mass & supper" spons: campus ministry, BULLA SHED. . 
7, 9, llpm FILM, "the french connection, K OF C HAll, admission $1, members free. 
8pm DRAM/. JERIES, "rwo by wharton," rwo short stories by edith wharton, 2232 MOREAU HALL, SMC. free admission, directed by prof. frederick syburg. 
Spm KEENAN REVUE, spons: keenan hall, semiformal variety show, O'LAUGHUN AUD. SMC, free admission. 
Bpm VISIT FROM AMBAS~ -""R ABELARDO L. 
VAI.DEZ  \assa~or abelardo I  •.  cr.  r  of protocol  
for unite  ·s,  1s: nd Ia raz.  stt  speech:  
inter-am~  eco..  ..1ic cooperation: chailenb  rl oppor­ 

tunities in tne 80's, HAYES-HEALY AUD. 8pm ND/SMC THEATER, "xingu" and "roman fever", 
rwo plays in reader's theater, 232 MOREAU HALL SMC. free admission. 8pm SOPH UT FESTIVAL, charles simic & louis gluck, 
authors of books in poetry, MEMORIAL LIBRARY. 
9 & llpm FILM, "turning point," CARROLL HALL SMC, spons: women's opportunity week. $1. 9:30pm FABULOUS 50's NIGHT, spons: senior bar, dance 
contest & costumes rewarded, SENIOR BAR. · 10-10:30pm NAZZ, barry stevens, NAZZ. 10:30pm NAZZ, nck walters, NAZZ. 

Saturday, March 15 
1:30pm SYMPOSIUM, "islam in the contemporary world," CARROLL HALL SMC. 
4pm SOPH LIT FESTIVAL, scott spencer, novelist, MEMORIAL LIBRARY AUD. 
5pm MEMORIAL MASS, mass in memory of vito laloggia, spons: grace Hall, GRACE HALL PIT. 
7, 9, llpm FILM, "the french connection," K OF C HALL, admission $1. members free. 
7:30pm MEETING, freedom of information day, PARK JEFFERSON COMMUNITY BUILDING. 
8pm KEENAN REVUE, O'LAUGHLIN AUD. SMC, spons: keenan hall. 
8pm CONCERT, kenny rogers, A.C.C. 
Spm DRAMA SERIES, "rwo by wharton," rwo short stories by edith wharton, ROOM 114 MO~EAU HALL, SMC, free admission, directed by prof. fredenck syburg. 

Sunday, March 16 
2pm ADMISSION DEGREE KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS, K OF C HALL, jacket and tie requested. 
2:30pm AUDUBON SOCIETY WILDLIFE FILM, "quebec whales & labrador tales," CARROLL HALL SMC, admission $2. 
7pm MEETING, an tostal staff meeting, spons: an tostal, LAFORTUNE THEATER. 
7, 9, llpm FILM, "the french connection," K OF C HALL, admission $1, members free. 
8pm TALK & DISCUSSION, the purification of love, james finley, spons: sacred heart parish, fourth in c1. series of five CRYPT OF SACRED HEART CHURCH. 
''Wm or die'' 

Guerrillas ,continue embassy siege 
BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (AP) 
The fifth round of negotiations berween the government and the ~uerrillas who hold a group of high-level diplomats hostage here ended· in a flash of anger yesterday. A masked woman representing the terrorists walked away from the talks visibly enraged and shouting, "We will win or die!" 
The woman left the negotia­tions, held in a panel truck parked outside the occupied embassy of the Dominican Re­public, took a few brisk steps and then turned toward hun­dreds of reporters standing some 80 feet away. 
Jabbing her finger angrily into the air, she shouted that the gderrillas wanted the re­lease of their comrades from Colombian jails. 
The woman returned to the embassy accompanied by Mex­ican Ambassador Ricardo Gal­an, who has been appointed by the hostages as an observer to the talks. 
The presidential press office issued a brief communique
. . 
Department presents 
•


stortes 

The cooperative department of communication and theater presents a Reader's Theater production entitled: "Two By Wharton," short stories by Edith Wharton, adapted and directed by Frederick Syburg. The {>resentation of the short stortes--''XINGU,'' and "Roman Fever," will be pre­sented tonight at 8 p.m. in room 232 Moreau Hall (SMC) and tomorrow in room 114 at the same time. 
Admission is free. 
~The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Margaret "Floored" Kruse Asst. Night Editors: Mike "Monk," Mary "The Ghost' Kasper Copy Editor: Mary Fran Callahan La:yout Staff: Joel Annable, L01s Kennedy, Neil "Strictly volunteer, Margaret" O'Bn­
en News Editor: Mike Lewis Editorial Layout: Ann Gales Features Layout:Molly 
Woulfe Sports Layout: John Smith Proofreader; Dan Ryan, Paul Hurfey ND Day Editor: Pat Campbell Ad Design: Mike Photographer: Dave Rum­bach Guest Appearances: Ryan "Margaret:watch out for 
John" Ver Berkmoes, Shy Turg Brassard, T.K., Kate Farrell. And where is Scoop? 
Till Oblerver [USPS -1211 II publiallld Mllldly tllrwglt Frtay n­cept during tum IIIII ....._,.... The Observer II ......._. lit 1111 atudlnts crl Nlllt 0.. 1M Sllllt Mlry'a C...... SH~K.IJII-_, IIIII Pllrdlaed .. S2l lllr ,.., ,.. lllr IIIMIIIrl IFill! The Observer. 1'.0. 11ft 
0....... ba.,lllllilu -·s..d
cllu piltlgl llfld, ....,. o-.... diiU ... . The Observtlf II 1 lllllllllllr crl till Alllcialld ....... All .........
...... ..__. 

_. 
several hours later sayin~ the government wants a negotiated settlement but the guerrillas must indicate whether they wanted to continue the talks. 
The official statement con­trasted with the communique after Monday's fourth round of talks, which said the talks had "advancely serenely" and would be continued. 
The government enteredJes­terday's talks, which laste 90 minutes, prepared to pro_Pose a speed-up in military trtals of guerrillas, including members of the M-19 organization -the same group holding the Amer­ican Ambassador, 18 other foreign diplomats and an un­determined number of other hostages at the Embassy for the 16th day. 
The government announced Wednesday night that nine "eminent jurists" had been appointed, to a special commis­Sion by President ] ulio Cesar Turbay Ayala to find ways of accelerating the trials. The theory is that some of the defendants would be acquitted and some might get suspended sentences. 
The M-19 guerrillas take their name from the April 19, 1970 presidential election, which they claim was rigged. 


CORBY STREET-KIDS SOFTBALL SMOKER 
CELEBRATE ST. PAT'S EARLY 
•Free Beer •Food •Live Rock 
Saturday  Army -Navy Hall  
March 15,8 P.M.  1121 W. Western  
$3.00  (5th stoplight West of  
Main St. downtown  




Sunday Masses at Sacred Heart Church 
5:15p.m Saturday  Rev. Robert Griffin. C.S.C.  
9:00a.m. sunday  Rev. Thomas Blantz. C.S.C.  
10:30 a.m Sunday  Rev. Enda McDonagh 
12:15 p.m. Sunday  Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C:  
7:1!1 p.m. Vespers  Rev. Enda McDonagh  

Notre Dame I St. Mary's Theatre presents 


''XINGU'' & ''ROMAN FEVER'' 
(two plays in Reader's Theatre) March 14th Moreau Hall rm. 232 
apm 


March 15th Moreau Hall rm 144 
Admission Free 


Tb Cef.ellial 

ANCAKEHOUS 
FCU~Ci~Aj R~ 

C0u11 gpecwQty 
C0vet1-CBa~d c.AppQe cpatlcakeg 
Our Specialty using fresh sliced apples topped with a sugar cinnamon glaze ne~et surpassed! 
U.S. 31 [Dixlewwayl North In Roseland [Across1rom Hoi day lnnl272·7433 Sun.· Thun. 6A.M. to 9P.M. Fri. & Sat. &A.M. to 10 P.M. 
The Observer Friday, March 14, 1980-page-1 


Election m.ay resolve
PLACEMOO BUREAU 

l-12-80 
hostage situation in Iran
J01 Dri'PVIDIB All OPDI TO IIIIIOIS AMD CBD0AD !lnrDIDITII II to Klt .AIID ADGtr8T 
CI.AIBU ..•.• , •••IJil V110 Tln'IXD TO BAVI DI'TUVIIW& liJST BAVZ A CCI9LITID PIOP'ILI (IKl.Sn.u'IOII) C* nu AT '1'111 P1ACIHDT JUUAU .........UGISTUTIOI, IJ'TDVUW SIQI-UP SIIDT! AJrll 1MPL0TD LIT'DATUU AU U. IOCM 2ll~ Al14llfUITIAnOII ILDC. 
(AP) -Iranian Foreign Minis­
ter Sadegh Ghotbzadeh said
CDII'LnS M'LOfD. SnttnCATl<MS 1:.1 D&GIDS, JOI TITUS• LOCATIOQ AID) C1TIDn'RIP 
.uz m.'IDI m 10 ~lWNAL, nan roa TBOSI mrurros .\IIWD sUtc!. TRr. 
yesterday upcoming parliamen­
I'UIITDIG or 1BI IWRlAL • 


tary elections will allow the government to ''dominate the power in the streets" and solve 
PI.JI.AS! ltOTJ IMTD:VIEW LOCATlOifS AT TIMJ OP SIGR-UP. PLEASE POST 
the issue of the American
fa' -....nu and f;aculty 
TOO Mln UCII POl. tOOl. ltf'l'I.J.YIDtS nuatw...t.t. 

hostages "quite quickly." In a radio interview broad­
llOft f'L~IDKUI­

cast in Paris, Ghotbzadeh said 
1
Mu. 24 1 
=---­

1 
l 
l 
I 
Ku. 25 
~ 


cans held hostage in the occu­pied U.S. Embassy since Nov. 
4. 
• 
1 
Mar. 26 
w;.r:­
1 
1 
~ 
Pr1. 
X 
I 
I 

9erv1cliD• lac. !narc ~-t and Mllinr-..oe;a OrJ.IIDhaU.oa.. 
he believed the nation was los­
8 in Mkt, Ml, HEIO. 'Por: lDdu.~trial Sal... Loe;•tion: Atlu.ta. CA. Citi&e'Uihip requir.d • 
ing patience with the militants who this week defeated govern­
Untud aut.. 1!ayt BMD in all dhclpU.-a. 
ment efforts to take custody of the approximately 50 Ameri­
''Time is working against the students. The people were en­
Stata lt.atul of A..ricaIL j,-'_ lnauunca ud Irtvaa~u. 1 ill AL, Bit, EC. 
Revolutionary leader Ayatol­
~~V ~~~~.g~~~~~c:i~::~::.~r~!~~~•polh~c.~~":~~.t .. 
lah Ruhollah Khomeini threw
•uat be raaidenta o( ona of tM llltlld loptioaa. 
Citiz~hip required. 

his support behind the mili­tants, setting what the U.N. 
Mu. 25 Scott Paper eo.pa.Jy;;;;:--Junldr& in Accountins. Phtladephla 
panel said were unacceptable 
or Cheater, PA. 
Prof. Robert Byrnes lectures on Soviet-American relations 
by Sal Granata Senior StaffReporter 

Likening the Soviet Union's aggressive foreign policy to Hitler's search for Lebensraum, and a.ssociating current western reactions to the appeasement policy preceding WW II, Prof­essor Robert Byrnes of Indiana University sketched a gloomy outline of Soviet-American re­lations before an overflow crowd in Hayes-Healy auditor­ium yesterday afternoon. 
Byrnes' lecture, Soviet­American ~elations and the Crisis in Iran and Afghanistan, was sponsored by the Program of Soviet and European Studies. 
Byrnes blamed an indecisive policy for America's plight overseas. He affirmed that in dealing with the Soviets, "you must know what your goals are and be resolute.'' Describing the Carter years and the USSR, Byrnes said ''Carter represents the American people, the peo­ple learned exactly what Carter learned ... that we've been bam­boozled.'' 
Byrnes explained that most of the world ts ''convinced that we are nice guys, that we won't hurt anyone; but that the Russians will. Western Europe and Japan accommodate them. The last thing they want to do is get in the way of the Soviet Uoion.The situation in Afghan­istan, he said, has "illuminated the nature of our allies' inability to stand up and be counted.'' 
''The invasion of Afghanistan destroyed the limited amount of trust that Americans had for the Soviet Union," Byrnes contin­ued, adding that this destruc­tion was "the most important casualty of the Afghan crisis." 
But at the same time that he warned his audience of waning American prestige abroad, 
Byrnes predicted  grave  prob­ 
lems  ahead  for  the  Soviet  
Union.  

"It may be possible the 
tirely with them before. Today, California Dapar~t of fi.D.porution !M in C!. 
that is no loos-er the case,'' 
Ghotbzadeh satd in an inter­
UAI.CO Ioc.. 

HB.A with Mkt bkP"d or ~ctru.
~ 

vtew broadcast by France-In­
ter.

John Hmu:.oe;i. laaw:-.ea. c.a.p.g 
reA. Por 1 Sale& ~-t Train1DI Proar-. Loe;ation: Initially lloaton, MA. 
A five-mem her U.N. commis­
laloc.atton after tratnt.na. Pen. Rea. Vtaa raq. 
sion remained m Tehrao 17 
MatropoUtan Lifa Iaauranee eo.pu.y 
days investigating Iranian
(luched\lled fro. 1ab. 26) 
8 1P Lib. Artl and Bus. Ad. 
charges of mass murder and 
Scott hpar eo.puy 
corruption by deposed Shah 
Cona...r Paper Producta. B in Mkt. Po-r: 
Retail SAlu lep -Cona~r Product&. Locarton: 
Mohammad Reza Pahlavi and 
Central Divlaion of the U.S. Ctthn.ahtp required. 
seeking to question all of the American hostages. 
Soviet Union will not suryive until 1984, at least not without our help," he said. 
Byrnes went on to outline the implications of the Soviet move into Afghanistan, describing Southwest Asia as "the soft underbelly of the world.'' He called Afghanistan's neighbor Pakistan a "very rickety state with problems spilling over its ' borders.'' 
''Iran is not one of the closest friends of the U.S." Byrnes quipped while evaluating the status of the revolutionary gov­ernment situated west of Af­ghanistan. He touched on Iran as a likely center for continued violence . and pos~ible Soviet tntervenuon. 
''Only half the people in Iran 
are Iranians, the other half 
want independence; the likeli­
hood is very large that it too 
(the Iranian government) will 
fall apart unless it seeks outside 
help" Byrnes said. 
Byrnes also pointed out Ind­
ia's possible role in any future 
Soviet excursion into Pakistan 
in much the same manner as 
the German-Soviet dismem­
berment of Poland in 1939. 
His final summary of the 
MO~JDAY 
51. PADDY'S 
open7am 
~GREEN BEER 
10¢ green beer at 7am with a 5¢ increase every hour until noon. ....~ From then on 35¢ all day .."7ff, 
situation in the region of crisis was that, "The area was made to order for a state like the Soviet Union." 
Describing anti-Americanism as the most powerful force in the last third of the 20th century, Byrnes told his aud­ience there was nothing the 
U.S. could do to control events 
there. . "First of all, they wouldn't have us, even ifthey would take American aid, their is nothing they could do with it," he said. 
Byrnes noted that Islam's conservative leaders have cul­tural reasons for being hostile to American culture and are antagonized by America's pro­tection of Israel. 
"Americans don't under­stand other people are differ­ent; not inferior but different, different values and political systems ...Americans don't know how other people react to force," Byrnes said. 
He quoted a phrase from Machiavelli's Prince to describe Soviet foreign policy: "It is better to be feared than loved." 
Byrnes closed with a plea for nuclear disarmament and con­trol of nuclear proliferation. 


conditions to the proposed visit to the hostages. Subsequently, the governing Revolutionary 
Council withdrew its backing for efforts by Ghotbzadeh and President Abolhassao Bani­Sadr to take custody of the Americans.· 
Khomeioi has delegated au­thority in resolving the hosta~e issue to the Majhs, or Parlia­ment, to be elected in balloting scheduled this Friday and Apnl 
4. The Majlis is not expected to consider the hostage issue until May. 
U.N. Secretary-General Kurt Waldheim -and Carter admini>­tration officials had hoped that the inquiry into the shah's al­leged crimes would convince the militants to allow the pro­posed visit and lead to the re­lease of the captives before the Majlis takes office. 
The panel members, backed by Waldheim, have said they will withhold their findings un­til they are allowed to see the ;10stages. 


SOMMER STORACE SPACE 
Special discount for ND mtd SMC students, 
259-0335 
SeU Lock goroge of McKinley 816 East McKinley Mishawaka 

for great music and a great time ... 
'*•1980<•#>!<
1lsrivAt~1,.\\ 

March ll and ll 
STEPAN CENTER 

TICKETS:  all session pass $850  
($750 students)  
Friday  $soo  

$250

Saturday afternoon Saturday nite $4°0 


The Observer 
In LaFortune 
FLOC supporters discuss objectives 
by Chip Block 

Boycotting Campbell's and Libby's products in the various hall's food sales was a main topic at a meeting of FLOC supporters held last night in the Lafortune ballroom. The group discussed what steps were ne­cessary for the abolishment of the companies' products in the stores and what individual stu­dents could do to help the boycott. 
St. Mary'sC~mmunity Liturgy Sunday, March 16th Regina Chapel, 11:15am Students, staff faculty, administrati~n invited 
Celebrant: Rev.J')hn Mell~h.S.M. Direct~r. N~tre DameCenterf~r Past~ral Uturgy 
Anyone interested in the organization ofa 
~[)-§~( 

fll~ (l1JI3 
please contact Jack Riley at 1062 
1finightaot .tlumbun 
will hold an 
-ADMISSION­-DEGREE-
Sunday March 16 2:00pm 
All Catholic men, 1Byears or older 
, 
are eligible for membership
•. 
Dues must accompany your application 
Jacket and Tie 

The meeting OJ?ened with the reading of an arucle in the Wall Street Journal concerning the passage of the FLOC referen­dum at Notre Dame. The article which appeared in the Journal yesterday, outlined the referendum's responses of Campbell's and Libby's offi­cials. The group then reviewed other media coverage that FLOC had received. 
The group then turned their attention towards gaining sup-
MASS followed by
supper 
every
FRIDAY 
at the 


>" port at other colleges in the area. The supporters read a letter from Purdue asking for advice anq support for starting a FLOC organization at that university. The group received a similar letter from the Univer­sicy of Indiana also asking for support. 
How to keep students inform­ed ab"ut FLOC was the final topic discussed by the suppor­ters. The distributivn of leaflets and the appearance on WSND's "Talk It Up" radio pro~ram were rwo of the suggesuons. "We must keep the momentum going," one participant said. The group then talked about various fundraising events to increase exposure to their cause. 
Spreading the boycott to Saint Mary's, the Morris Inn, and the University Club was the nex· topic discussed at the meeting. Whether to contact students at SMC or to first approach ] ohn Duggan, SMC president, was debated. 
Ambassat:lor lectures 
-lay
to(l,j Ambassador Abelardo L. 
Valdez, Chief of Protocal for the 
United States, will lecture today 
at 12:15 p.m. in the Law School 
Lounge. 

Ambassador Valdez will be 
the guest of Notre Dame La 
Raza Law Students. He will 
meet informally with Latino law 
and other graduate students 
later this afternoon. 
Tonight, Valdez will address t~e University community in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium at 8:00p.m. His topic is: "Inter-American Economic Coopera­rion: Challenges and Oppor­
=tu=n=i=ti=e=s=i=n=t=h=e=8=0='=s=.'='=====a=t=a=L=o=u=t=5=p=.m=.=S=u=n=d=a=y=.=== winters to tutoring children. A 
Carter's guidelines 
•
ensure wage tncrease 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Carter administration raisea its voluntary wage guidelines yesterday so the nauon's work­ers could receive wage in­creases ofup to 9. 5 percent this year and remain in compliance with government inflation-fighting efforts. 
The administration, accepting a labor-backed recommenda­tion, set a new guideline range of 7.5 percent to a 9.5 percent for pay and fringe benefit in­creases, UJ? from last year's 7 percent guideline. 
The guideline is the limit that the administration would like to see for wage increases this year. Since it is voluntary, how­ever, the government can't force compliance. 
The increase from last year's 7 percent ceiling was an­nounced by Alfred E. Kahn, the president's chief anti-inflation adviser. 
No decision has yet been made on this year's voluntary guidelines for price increases by businesses, according to offi­cials of the Council on Wage and price Stability, which over­sees compliance with the anti-inflation program. 
The increase in the pay 
Jr. Night at the Nazz provzded Mike 0 'Connor [left], Pat· 
Mackre/1 [center], and Don Ginnochio [nght] an opportunity 
to display their musical talents; John Rozzi also accompanied 
the group. [Photo by Dave Rumbach]. 
Students join Bush caravan en route to Chi~ago 
As the final weekend before All students interested in 
the crucial Illinois presidential joining the Bush caravan should primary approaches, fifty sup­contact ] im King ( 1184) orJim porters of George Bush from Niehaus (277-1494) or Torie Notre Dame and St. Mary's Giesler (5432smc). Students plan to join a three-state car with cars are especially needed. caravan of volunteer students that is traveling to Chicago tomorrow. 
Separate groups of students from Detroit and Indianapolis 
. ..Police

will join the Notre Dame caravan at about 12:30 p.m. tomorrow along 1-94 near [continued from page 1] Michigan City, Indiana. A separate caravan will come seems to me that the students from Milwaukee. have an obligation to be good 
All the students will meet citizens, too." with Ambassador Bush in Quigley went on to say tha, downtown Chicago, and then students in general are not at c,ampaign by manning phone the heart of the problem. The banks and going door-to-door. neighborhood has greatly bene-Tomorrow night will be a free fired from student involvement night on the town. The group in the community_ from assist_ plans to return to Notre Dame ing the elderly during the harsh 
guideline has the backing of or­ganized labor, business and public representatives, who had recommended the higher wage figures Jan. 22. The recom­mendations were drafted by a special committee President Carter set up to advise the council on wage matters. 
President Carter had been expected to make the an­nouncement as parr of his new strategy to fight inflation, which m January surged at an annual rate of 18 percent. 
The administration's decision on the pay guidelines ended weeks of speculation about whether the administration would agree to such a hefty in­crease in wa~es at a time in­~arion is soann~. 
· Labor leaders, mcluding those who participate on the council's Pay Advisory Com­mittee, had argued that the boost was necessary to get workers to comply after last year's l3.3 percent surge in prices. But others, especially in the business community, pointed out that the larger wage in­creases will be passed on to co consumers in the form of high­er prices, thus exacerbating in­flation this year. 
small percentage of students, however, manages to erase much of the good done by persisting in revelry until 5 or 6 
a.m. in the morning, when they abuse property, and habitually behave unconscientiously. 
Although vandalism by stud ­ents is not common, Quigley noted that the stop sign at South Bend and Notre Dame Avenues has been replaced seventeen times this year at a c~st to city taxpayers of $70 per stgn. 
"We don't want to live any ­
where else," Quigley said. "But people, elderly people who have lived in these homes for decades, are being forced to move out because of the rude ­ness or ruthlessness of people inflicting themselves upon them," he claimed. 
Quigley conceded that off campus conditions are not good for students -although the northeast area boasts a lower average crime rate, students are more likely targets of crime. 
"We must work together to achieve the best possible condi­tions, because students are especially vulnerable,'' he said. 
"But students must avoid setting up adversary conditions by insisting that they be allow ­ed to drink if they are under 2l," he said. "That is the law, and we object to the fact that underage drinking is so preval­ent, and the fact that the neighbors must put up with the consequences," he said. 
~ 

The Observer ·Friday, March· 14, 1980-page 5 
Candidates go to battle in debate 
CHICAGO (AP) -Four Re­publican candidates debated last night, with three ganging up on Rep. John B. Anderson and Anderson accusing George Bush of half-truths that are "as dangerous and deceptive as a 
.1ie. " 
Anderson, Bush, former Cal­ifornia Gov. Ronald Reagan and Rep. Phillip M. Crane of Illinois 
-survivors in a narrowing field of candidates for the Republic­an presidential nomination ­faced one another in a 90-min­ute, televised debate sponsored by the League of Women Voters. 
They blamed President Car­ter and Democratic Congresses for running up deficits that fuel inflation. 
Each of the Republicans said he is devoted to a balanced budget, but Crane said Ander­son's House votes were those of a big spender. Bush and Rea­gan also took slaps at Ander­son, evidence of his emergence as a possible winner in the 
Chicago Sun-Times endorses Tighe as Republican delegate 
by Bruce Oakely 

Frank P. Tighe III, a sopho­more in the Colllege of Arts and Letters,. was endorsed yester­day by the Chicago Sun~Times as a delegate to the Republican National Convention from Illi­nois' 11th District. Tighe is one of fourteen canidates in the district, and one of three pledg­ed to John Anderson. 
''The endorsement is a plea­sant reward for a lot of hard work that began last October,'' said Tighe. "I began garnering signatures in my district then, and in December I contacted · Anderson over Christmas 
those candidates currently in state positions -to be elected delegates to the convention. 
Presumably, Thompson could wield greater influence over those delegates on the state payroll. There have been ru­mors that Thompson is interest­ed in the vice presidency, . according to Tighe. 
Tighe's disapproval of Thom­pson's maneuver is ironic be­cause Tighe first became in­volved in the political process in Thompson's 1976 gubernatorial campaign, run in conjunction with Gerald Ford's Illinois campaign for the presidency. 
Thompson ran again in 1978 ­Illinois presidential primary 
election Tuesday. 
His foes criticized Anderson on Social Security, on his record of votes on House appropria·­tions bills, and on his proposal for a 50-cent-a-gallon gasoline tax. Anderson advocates the tax as a conservation measure, with proceeds to be used to reduce Social Security taxes by 50 
percent. 

Anderson accused Bush of 
misstatements. "I have to tell 
him that a half-truth is as 
dangerous and deceptive as a 
lie,'' he said. 
The Illinois Consressman 
said Bush has deceived voters 
by accusing him of advocating 
cuts in Social Security benefits. 
"Now wait a minute, that's not 
true,'' he snapped across the 
stage at Bu~h. 
... Fisher 
[continued from page 1] 
Fisher commented, "In the old days it was a place, so long as it stayed stable, that you could be brought up and raised in. Now it's not a very pleasruu place to be, and people are constantly moving through it.'' Fisher added, ''It was up to me to write about what was there.'' 
..;/-he.. lAST MARRIED 
d)uPLE
UvLt..._eA,. 
~ ~~I;;SAL PI~ 
SHOWS 1:45-3:45-5:45-7:45-9:45 
Help is on the way! 
IOHN ~ 
RIT1a AROIIR 
tfERO AT
J LARGE 
United Artists ~ 

break. I signed a pledge to support Anderson at that time. In early January, I filed my petition -with 700 signatures ­at state headquarters 10 Spring­field.'' 
Some of the candidates oppos­ing Tighe are well known on the Chicago political scene: His opponents mclude a former 
U.S. congressman and three current ward committeemen. Tighe is especially pleased with the Sun~ Times endorsement be­cause it gives him greater voter recognition, which is essential in combatting his more expe­rienced adversaries. 
Tighe will lead a group of students to solicit support at the polls in the Illinois primary Tuesday. 
"We've got rwo vans going to Chicago Monday night," he said. We will work at the polls all day Tuesday, and we have a victory party planned Tuesday night. We will then return for classes Wednesday." 
(Anyone interested in joining 
the group should contact Tighe 
at 8992). 
Hard work at the polls and 
voter recognition are crucial for 
Illinois delegates, because of 
the state's unique blind-ballot 
system. The system, instituted 
last summer through the work 
of Governor James Thompson, 
provides for separate elections 
of presidential and delegate 
candidates. Delegate's names 
appear on the ballot indepen­
dent of the presidential candi­
date whom they support. 
This means that a presidential 
candidate who sweeps the po­
pular vote is not assured of a 
single delegate to the conven­
tion, because the delegates who 
support him may lose their 
primary contests. 
The Sun-Times, in its endorse­
ment of Anderson and his 
delegates, called the blind­
ballot "an abomination" that 
"embarrasses the state." 
Echoing these comments, Tighe claimed that the rules "make sense for Thompson and nobody else.'' The rules make it more likely, Tighe said, for the more recognizable . names ­the '76 victory included the understanding that only a rwo­year term would be served in order to set up off-year state elections -and Tighe again w0. ·-din the campaign, which also rc"ulted in Thompson vic­tory. 
Continuing his political activi­ty, Tighe served with Larry Hau as co-chairman of the Anderson campail!n at the recently con­cluded 'Mock Convention. Hau, whose dilligence in gathering petition signatures helped An­derson get on the ballot for the Indiana primary, and Tighe were pleased with the support Anderson received at the Mock Convention. 
,. 'Anderson led after the f~rst 
ballot, and although a Ford 
movement cost us in subse­
quent ballots, we were happy ­with the number of hard-core delegates supporting Anderson at the Mock Convention,'' Tighe stated. 
Anderson has a solid appeal on college campuses, according to Tighe, because he is more of 
a 


(in loud body ~ or in spirit): ~ 
You come through. ThonkYou. Love, Donn 
(of comparable value) 
fhe 
Sub Machine 
NOT APPLICABLE FOR SUB-CLUB 

2426 LINCOLNW A Y WEST, MISH. 
259-8110 52313 US31 NORTH, SO. BEND 
277-6355 

moderate than ~ the other 
[continued on page 6] 

In addition to his writings on Birmingham, Fisher read a collection of short poems with the theme of ''The Puzzle of Perception." These included: ''The Only Image;'' ''The Sign;" and "The Least," deal­ing with perception and the difference berween seeing and looking. "" 
In an ap.l?ealing poem called 
''Irreversible,'' Fisher de­
scribed funny misconceptions 
achieved when the letters of 
one or more words are altered. 
Fisher, interested in J.azz 
piano himself, also rea a critical essay entitled ''The Thing about Joe Sullivan,'' dealing with the story of Joe -Sullivan, a remarkable Jazz 
pianist as reflected by Fisher. In "Bonadine's Reply," Fisher wrote about a work of William Shakespeare, by creating an imagination in Bonadine, a character in Measure for Meas­ure. 
In "Poet," Fisher's theme of the avoidance of finiteness in poetry is similar to John Cage's ideas, which Cage presented Wednesday evening. 
.TO ALL WHO WERE t IN THE GREEN SECTION. 
The Observer Friday, March 14, 1980-page 6 
BASEMHH, NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL 
LEGAL ~ID & DEFENDER ASSOCIATION 

(AP) -At Ford headquarters 
ROOM 8·12 283·7795 
in Dearborn, Mich., "Every­11 am· 2pm (IV.· Fl 
body was highly elated" with other times by appointment 
yesterday's news that an Ind­Iana jury had acquitted the auromaker of reckless homicide
W[ HANDLf ALL I:INANCIALLY 
QUALIFicO STUDE:NTS & ~F 
~barges. 

For the father of rwo of the girls whose deaths in a fiery 1978. Pinto crash led to the unprecedented criminal trial of

Morin& Off OUapua ••u leaedlr ?· 
a corporation, the verdi.:t was 
''very disappointing.'' .J.~ Oheck Ou~... o,._ 
,};-.,~ 
In Washmgton at Ralph Nad­
er's Center for Auto Safery, the
~"~ ~~ 
1 

sentiment was that the 1ury's
~~ MIOBIAXAS liST 
decision was "pre-ordamed" by unfavorable rulings on the
Bew aDd UM4 PurnUure aDd Appliances 
prosecution's evidence in the course of the 10-weck trial in
'lV'S '"ereos, l'ftfrfCera~ora, chairs, aotu, 1tables 
Pulaski Circuit Court. And General Motors declared 

31K 
that its competitor was "en­titled to the verdict of acquit­tal." 

After 26 hours of delibera­tions, the jury of seven men and five women cleared Ford of three COI,lnts of reckless homi­cide in the deaths of three young women whose 1973 Pinto exploded in flames when it was struck from behind on a north­ern Indiana highway. 
"Well, I'm very disap­pointed," said Earl Ulrich, whose daughters) udy, 18, and Lyn, 16, died in the crash along with their cousin,Donna, 18. "But this (verdict) has nothing to do with us. This was the State of Indiana against Ford Motor Co." 
Ulrich, who said he and his wife heard the verdict on the news at their home in Osceola in Northern Indiana, declined to say whether they planned to
Student lottery for 
bnng a civil suit against Ford. Of the verdict, "I felt let down. I feel like the prosecution didn't get all their story in. They were very limited in their evidence. I think they did all they could 
TED NUGENT 
appeatlng Aprll168pm ACC 
under the circumstances.'' 
Ulrich concluded that "It's not the end of the world. I just accept it and go on from there.''
Sunday March 16 "In view of the judge's restrictions against the intro~ duction of supporting evidence, 
but letting in the Ford crash tests, I felt the decision was preordained," said Clarence Ditlow of the Center for Auto 
Spm LaFortune Ballroom 
tickets $8.50 
Safety, which was instrumental in pressuring for the original
go on sale Monday March 17 9AM 
Pinto recall. "However, in the next case, with a better judge or with a different striking vehicle, 
Student Union Ticket Office or 
I feel sure Ford or any other manufacturer would be con­
ACCgate 10 
victed.'' 

Henry Ford, 63, who stepped down yesterday as chairman of the board of the No. 2 automak­er, said he would have left the post last October, except for what he called ''a lot of things facing the company then." 

Asked for examples, Ford 
Deliberates 26 hours 
Indiana jury acquits Ford 
'All hostages alive' says State Department 
WASHINGTON (AP) . The returneJ from Tehran on Tues­State Department said yester­day without being permitted in­day it now has convincing evi­side the embassy compound. dence that all 50 Americans "We have come to the con­taken hostage in Tehran four clusion that all 50 are alive and months ago are alive and re­inside the compound," the main withm the U. S. Embassy State Department official said. there. "That, however, in no way 
Until now, the department changes what I've been saying. 
has said it could not be certain We do not have a first-hand the 50 Americans, taken hos­confirmation, nor can I tell you tage in the embassy on Nov. 4, even now that anybody has were all alive or that some had seen all 50. I cannot make that not been taken elsewhere by flat assertion. 
their captors. flat assertion.'' 
But a department official, de­''But from an accumulation clining to be. identified, said of recent reports of one kind or Thursday "the preponderance another we have concluded that of evidence'' showing the hos­the preponderance of evidence tages to be alive and all within is that all 50 are alive and in­
the embassy compound was ac­side the compound,'' the offici­cumulated in a "relatively re­al said. cent period." The official said this con­
No outside observer has seen clusion "is not based so much all the Americans, nor has mail on what any member of the been received from all the cap­commission said but on an ac­tives. A United Nations com­cumulation of reJ?orts from mission, which had been ex­various sources, which I cannot pected to see all the hostages, detail." 
, , , Tighe 

replied, chuckling, "Such as lawsuits." 
Word of the acquittal in Indiana was brought into the directors meeting and, "Every­bo.dy was highly elated," Ford sa1d. 
Ford President Phillip Cald­well said the company was delighted to "have a principle upheld by a jury of our peers." 
Caldwell said he believed the most important fact underlined by the trial was "at speeds in excess of 50 MPH, it is next to impossible to make them (coll­iding vehicles) foolproof' ... there must be a responsibility on the part of people who use products as well as peole who design them." 
''General Motors believes that the jury reached the proper verdict," said a statement read by a GM spokesman. 

[continued from page .5] 
Republican candidates. 
Anderson has not been afraind to cross party lines or to take liberal stands on issues, and Tighe believes this has initiated a lot of resentment from the other GOP candidates. But he also suspects that this makes Anderson a more formidable opponent for the Democrats: an Anderson-Caner confrontation would pit a moderate against a moderate, and this could make it tougher on the Democrats than a moderate-conservative contest. 
''Anderson runs a campaign of ideas, rather than broad plati­tudes," Tighe noted. "He rufls on programs -some people don't like those programs, but he is the only candidate who· is proposing any programs." 
The political experience has been gradually rewarding for Tighe, who expects to continue his involvement ia-the future, possibly to the extent of seeking an elected office. 
There are bad moments, though: 
"Sometimes it can be degrad­ing," he noted. "Some people will slam the door on you before you've said word one. And I've been approached by the Bush people asking for my SUJ?POrt for the winner of the presiden­tial primary in the district, regardless of my pledged sup­port. I am not legally bound to Anderson, but to switch alle­giance at this poi'nt would be political suicide -I could never get support for a campaign again." 
Assessing his experience in light of his recent success, 


T1ghe concludes: 
"It has been a good way to meet some important people and to learn to talk about politics. I'll,be doing it again in four years. 

K.ojC. shows 1 movte 
1 Jl.OO OFF LARGE PIZZA 1 The Knights ut Columbus 
will show "The French Connec­I 14 ln./3 lwm pizza only II tion" tonight, tomorrow andI UIUQI price Is 16.00 Sunday at 7, 9 and 11 p.m. in 
the K of C Hall. Admission is

I this weekend only, free Iitie of pop ~lth 1 $1, but all members will be admitted free . 
,___ any large plzzQ ·--• 
. . ...... ..... .•.·..".' :-.•. ·'·' 
• 


· ·· -· -The Observer Friday, March 14, 1980-page 7 Sparse audience 
-

jacqueline Means, a convert from Catholicism and the first woman Episcopalian minister, spoke last night before a small crowd at SMC. [Photo by Dave Rumbach]. 
Anti-inflation strategies include balancedbudget 
WASHINGTON (AP) · Pres­ident Carter will today unveil his newest anti-inflation stra­tegy, which is expected to include the first balanced budget in 12 years and a new tax that would raise gasoline prices 10 cents a gallon. 
White House officials said Carter will announce his anti­inflation plays at 4:30 p .. (ES1) in a Whtte House speech and will hold a news conference at 9 
p.m. tonight (ES1) to discuss them further. . 
In announcing Carter's plans, officials said all details of the strategy have not yet been worked out and will be an­nounced later. 
In addition to seein~ a higher tax on gasoline, Amencans also are likely to feel the bite of the new Carter program in higher interest rates, credit controls and an end to Saturday mail delivery, among other things. 
Carter is expected to propose $12 billion to $15 billion in spending cuts for 1981, and to impose a new tax on imported oil that would raise the price of gasoline an additional 10 cents a gallon. 
Carter already has authority to impose the tax. He also has authority to impose credit con­trols. However, some of the spending reductions would have to be approved by 
Congress.  
The  result  of  the  cuts  in  
spending  would  be  a  slight  
budget  surplus  in  1981  in  

contrast to the ori~inal Carter budget, submitted m January, which provided for deficit spen spending of $15.8 billion. The nation has not had a balanced federal budget since 1969. 
As a part of the package, the independent Federal Reserve Board is expected to take steps to hike its discount rate by one or two percentage points-,­sources said. It wasn't known whether the board would announce its action simultan­eously with the president's announcement. 
'· 
The rise in the discount rate, which is the interest the board charges on loans to member banks, could cause another upward surge in the interest rate banks charge on loans to businesses and consumers. 
The Chase Manhattan Bank, the nation's third largest, boosted its prime rate to a record 1814 percent yesterday. 
Meanwhile, the administra· tion yesterday formally increas­ed its voluntary wage guideline for 1980 to a range of 7.5 percent to 9.5 percent, indicat· mg it hopes most unions will settle on 8. 5 percent pay in· creases this year. 
Alfred Kahn, the president's chief inflation adviser, said in a statement, that "under normal circumstances, wage and salary increases should average 8.5 percent." 

HAPPY HOUR 
ALL DAYIIII 
. I ­
eG,..nS..t 

• Dtlnk ifMCIClll thtoughoutth• da.!l 
• Jud!f Gunct.ftonIn loung•, 8:00 ~ 
"JI.Q\,.,~.,•• 1arat• St. P~tty's D~y 
~~ With Us. 
11:30Clm-? 

Get A Little Irish 
In You At .... · ~
~lfj:~ ---~"1/ 
............. 
Fem.ale m.inister speaks at SMC 
by Pam Degnan Senior StaffReporter 
] acqueline Means, the ftrst woman to be · ordained an Episcopalian minister, SJ?Oke be· fore an audience of thl.rty ftve last night in Caroll Hall ­reflecting on her life as a priest, nurse, and divorced mother. 
Attendance was poor due largely to the scheduling of the Sophomore Literary Festival during the same week. 
Means, who was raised Roman Catholic, broke 2000 years of church history by becoming the ftrst woman Epi­scopalian minister. Conversion from Catholicism to Episcopa­lianism occurred, Means noted, because of church "suffocation and strangulation.'' 
•'When I left the Catholic Church, I felt that I was finally free to be what I wanted,'' Means said. • 'I believe that the Church should not dictate people's lives. ­
Rev. Means warned the pre­
dominantly female audience 
that women will always face 
social and liturgical barriers. 
Means cited the ordination of a 
woman bishop as a real chal­
lenge. 
The minister also said that 
there is really no hope for the 
Catholic Church as far as 
ordaining women _Priests. 
''Unless Catholtcs elect an 
American pope or break ties 
with Rome, women priests will 
be an impossibility. You have to 
break cultural ties in order to 
achieve anything,'' Means 
said. 

As a priest and the divorced mother of four, Means admitted that she is being constantly pulled berween her private and 
Memorial 
mass at Grace 
Tomorrow there will be a mass at 5 p.m. in the Grace Hall Pit. The mass is being cele­brated in the memory of Vito I.aloggia. Everyone is wel­come to attend. 
public life. 
"It's really hard to balance both worlds. In the beginning I was afraid that I would be neglecting either my parisho­ners or my children but tn time I learned to cope with all my problems," Mean said. 
Means also discussed her divorce as a learning and growing experience. 
"Divorce is a no-win situation. My divorce has taught me more about myself in terms of how to approach life and how to under­stand the complex emotions of 
LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS 
STUDY THE SOCIAL SCIENCES IN LONDON 
l'he London School of Economics and Political Science offel"ll junior year study, 
\pOstgraduate diplomas, one-year Master's degrees and research opportunities 
In the heart of London in a wlda range of social sciences. Subjects Include 
Accounting and Finance. Actuarial Science, Anthropology, Business Studies. 
Econometrics. Economics. Economic History, Geography, Government Industrial 
Relations, International History, International Ralatfons. Law, Management Science, 
Operational Research. Philosophy, Politics, Social Administration. Social Work. 
Sociology, Social Psychology and Statistical and Mathematical Sciences. 
Fees £2000 (approx. $<1500) a year. Limited financial assis ... nce available. 
Application blanks from: Pro-Director, LS.E., Houghton Street London WC2A 2AE. England. Please state whether junior year or postgraduate. 
HEY JUNIORS!!! 

ImmEDIATELY ___......,. SIGN UP FOR YOUR YEARBOOK PORTRAIT 

people," Means commented. 
Means concluded her 35 mi­nute speech with some thoughts on abortion. As a licensed practical nurse, Means retailed the time when she witnessed an abortion three years ago. "I almost fainted. I guess it really bothered me. I have a lot of mixed feelings about it," Means explained. "I used to think everything was black and white. Nothing is just right or wrong anymore," she conclud­ed. 

Friday, March 14, 1980-page 8
Editorials 
CLC needs reforlll 
The Campus Life Council's latest rejection of a proposal to allow kegs in student residence halls proves that the CLC can no longer be taken seriously as a advisory body. The proposal, which failed to garner the two-thirds majoriry needed for passage, was founded in common sense, supponed by the vast majority of students, and the next logical step in Fr. John Van Wolvlear's "parry room experiment." That it was flatly rejected by the facuJry and Administration members of the CLC is only the most recent sign of these two bodies. rusregard for student sentiment and paranoia over treating the student body as adults. 
The larger problem, however, is the CLC itself. Ifone were to judge the CLC by its record this year, one would have to conclude that it is a useless and, as Fr. Richard Conyers suggested, a self-defeating or_ganization. The purpose of the CLC is to advise, yet how can 1t advise when those who are to be advised consistently shoot down the advice before it can be formally submitted? The purpose of the CLC is to be deliberative, yet how can it deliberate when (faculry and Administration members refuse to attend the meetings' assuring there will not be a quorum, and that the discussion will be meaningless? In shon, neither the Administration reprc:sc:ntatives nor the faculry representatives take theCLC' s advisory capaciry seriously. To remedy this situation, The Observer believes that the CLC must be restructured so that it is viewed as a responsible and imaginative body. At present, the CLC is 


the student body's only official means of forum communica­tion, with the Administration, but the Administration holds this body in its power. It is time to be released from that power. 
rust, the CLC should be restructured without the ~dministration represented as a voting body. This is a SlDlple appeal to common sense. If the Administration coosiscendy defeats student suggestions before they can air them in an official capacity, then Administration representa· tioo on the CLC is little mor~ than a safeguard for the Administration. This safeguard assures the Administration lhal they will never see something they have not already had a hand m approving first. · 
Sttond, faculty representation should be dropped from the 
O.C. This group, by virtue of their election of reprr:sentatives who refuse to attend the meetings, has illusuated it does not care about campus life. 
Third, the CLC's approved proposals should be submitted 
directly to the University provost. The vice-president for 
student affairs, because he is represented on the CLC, is too 
dose to the problem to objectively judge the merits of the 
a.C's proposals. It is no secret that there are personal 
cooflicts between some CLC members. 
Faoally, the CLC should have a wider student representa­tion, and one not chosen strictly from the various organs of· srudent government. By choosmg a group of students with more diverse interests and backgrounds, the CLC is bound to get more imaginative and meaningful student commentary oo campus life. 
Tile Observer believes that these reforms are necessary for the O.C to survive the cri§iS ofself-justification it now faces. 1bc: first step toward achievin~ these much-needed and long-overdue reforms is recognition by student leaders and Administration officials that the CLC is, at present, impotent and purposeless. Unless some changes are made soon, The Ollserr~er, like Fr. Conyers, would not blame the CLC if it "~itself out of existence.'' 
The question 
To Keg or not to Keg 
Warning: This column is long and I may bore you with details, but doing so is a necessary evil. I encourage you to read this, familiarize yourself with its contents, and challenge your rector/rec­tress and the Administration with its argument, for · l their responses we may initiate the process of Lhange. 
When I watched the hands go up to shoot down the CLC keg proposal, I was frustrated and mad--really mad! This was something for which we students had worked all year. An almost identical proposal was passed 12-3 way back last September 10, but was rejected by Fr. VanWolvdear becausl" we were already running a parry room experiment . and "It seems only reasonable that we conduct one such experiment at a time ... However, should our 'partyroom' experiment prove successful, I would be encouraged toward thinking about a 'keg' experiment toward the end of the year." One has to wonder ifhe was only dangling a carrot in front of our heads, rustracung us to run without ever allowing us to reach our goal. 
The. same keg proposal was re-submitted a semester and one-half following its initial rejection; this was surely enough rime to evaluate the use of the \'arty rooms. In fact, the conclusion from discussiOn one month ago in the CLC atld the repon of its party policy committee 
was that "party rooms have been generally successful ''. It is true that there have been some minor problems with party rooms, but they are here to stay, as indicated by the large university investment this year to upgrade them. One of the major deficiencies of party rooms-­and I'm sure every Hall President will agree with me--is that we cannot serve beer in large aluminum containers (i.e. kegs); as a result, the rooms often lie vacant simply because of the expense of throwing a parry. Besides the cost factor, there are many other reasons to allow kegs in party rooms. Kegs minimize' the problem ofrefuse and greatly facilitate clean-up. The absence of bottles and cans eliminate the accumulation oftrash in the room; the cups used with kegs are easily stacked and rusposed of. Plastic cups also eliminate the safety hazards of broken bottles. Finally, beer just tastes better out of a keg. 
Last September, the arguments against kegs such as their proliferation throughout dorms and responsibility were effectively countered by noting that each Hall's staffhas the same control that they now have. Furthermore, the legal liability remains the same despite the size of the container from which the beverage is served. When asked last Monday why he voted against kegs, Dean Roemer responded that the Adminis­tration was concerned about alcohol abuse; this type of thinking illustrates that opposition to kegs is only Administration phobia. Looking at kegs rationally, one realizes that there would be 
; grealercontrol than previously possible,_ thereby 
1
1 • t, • : j I 1 I , 0 It Ill '~. 1 , 0 ·-• t < ' ' I l I I • t ; t t 
Paul J. Riehle 

produci~g more normal socialization and health­Ier relationships. The number of kegs permitted at a parry would depend on the size of the room and the number of people attending. You can keep tabs on the amount of beer simply by counting the kegs. It's a lot easier than counting quarts and then cases to see how much is being consumed--that's nearly impossible! 
Funhermore, regulations can be added to the parry room guidelines to increase control. Suggestions I've heard are disallowing . the purchase of additional kegs after the party has begun, limiting the number of kegs tapped at one time, and prohibiting the tapping of kegs within an hour and a half of the predetermined time of the party's end.' With these measures you reduce the often-mentioned problem of getting smashed trying to "kill the keg". 
I read Fr. Conyers letter to the erutor yesterday wtih an approvmg eye; there are definitely some things wrong w1th the CLC that need to be corrected. However, even more imponant than legislative mechanics is the need for attiturunal changes. Neither kegs on campus nor the CLC composition is ultimately the question, but tl}ese allow for focus on the real problem: The Administration at Notre Dame neither respects nor trusts its students. One cannot reach any other conclusion when a proposal with complete 


.... 
student backing is rejected without rationale. If there are reasons, then let the Administration come fonh and give them; let them respond in a clear, rational, and responsible manner. We need to know because we're losing faith. 
The DuLac manual states that ''rational, experienced legislation is an aid to comradeship essential to a volunteer society;'' it goes on to add that students are' expected to abide by its laws ''but also to criticize and help improve them year by year''. In the Administration attitude toward kegs, I see a lack of rationaliry correspondingly reducing comradeship as our criticism falls on deaf ears. Because we are not complying with the DuLac manual, il: follows we will have a difficult time realizing the ideals which it was meant to inculcate. 
When Fr. Hesburgh gave the invocation during the opening night of last week's Mock Conven­
tion,  he  prayed  that  Notre  Dame  students  
wouldn't  become  "apathetic  toward  govern­ 
ment".  Government,  however,  like  charity,  

begins at home. If the present practices continue, apathy toward both the Administration and toward Student Government will increase to the detriment of all, and in contradiction to the expressed principles of the University. ' 
I call for a reasoned University response toward an expen'mental keg policy; kegs in party rooms have become symbolic of our ability to obtain response to reasonable requests of the Adminis­tration. We need rational answers. We need to know we're included in decisions. And we have to be included. 
t f ... 0 ' 
,. I ~ 
., 

The Observer -Editorials Friday, March 14, 1980-page 9 
P. 0. Box Q 
band and obtain that valued fine. However, it is a blatant · abortion is obviously betterTheSMCmyth· "Mrs. degree." References to generalization to assume that than any of the current Saint Mary's as merely a finish­all Saint Mary's students are "major" candidates, who are ing school are common. Many mindless females with little all anti-life: John Anderson,dispelled believe education to be of concern for a career-oriented . George Bush, ] immy Carter, secondary importance to Saint future. and Edward Kennedy. (How­Mary's students. The shocked In part, the stunted social life ever, it is obviously 1nfenor to Dear Editor: looks of disbelief that Saint at Samt Mary's and NotreDame Philip Crane's excellent pro-life Mary's women actually do ob­bears some of the blame for ths record.) Reagan realizes that if As· a graduating senior at ~ tain successful careers only myth. The weekend exodus he wants to win in 1980, he Saint Mary's, I feel compelled serves to illustrate this miscon­from Saint Mary's to Notre needs Right to Life support. If 
to wnte this in resJ:>onse to a ception. Dame, partially due to the he wants that supifort, he must common and unfair fallacy: the do wish to criticize adhere to pro-life principles. 
I not restricitive limitations of pari­SMC myth. For four years I anyone who is engaged, since etals (which is a whole other Independent presidential
have watched this misconcep­candidate Ellen McCormack
an "Mrs. degree" does not article in itself), does not en­tion ~row, idealistically hoping negate the value ofa liberal arts hance the Saint Mary's image. recently referred to Mr. 
that a would change as a result' degree. I am merely pointing Instead, the Saint Mary's stu­Reagan's " ... unfortunate ten­of a few, well:-set examples. out that this is not the sole dent comes off a s a silly, giddy clancy to talk about Right to Life However, I see little or no intent of every Saint mary's "girl," eternally "scoping." when it is politically conven­
change in the attitudes of both This statement is true in some ient, while--on the other hand-­
student.I am asking you to giVestudents and professors on 
us a fair chance at proving cases, but a generalization none­ignoring Right to Life when that either campus. ourselves as intelligent, com­theless. course ofaction seems political­Accordin~ to this myth, a petent women; to look beyond I guess I'm just plain tired of ly Iinconvenient:." We must 
Saint Mary s "girl" (more af­

the generalizations. a question that always makes consider whether Reagan is fectionately referred to as a Granted there are women at me bristle. "Howcould you not truly pro-life, or whether he is "Smick Chick"), is at Saint Saint Mary's who hope to even appiJ w Notre Dame? such a candidate who, as Father· Mary's for one purpose and one secure a husband at the end of You're an mtelli~ent person." Hesburgh stated at the National purpose only-to secure a hus-four years, and for them, that's Well, believe It or not, there Conference on Abortion, will 
are some intelligent people agret ''superficially on this here who chose Saint Mary's issue of abortion. • • because it offers unique oppor­Until Mr. Reagan specifically 
tunities to each student as a states his position on abortion, woman and as a potential and demonstrates that he will career woman. And yes, Virgi­endorse yro-life efforts if elect­:li.a, you actually can get an ed, it wil be politically danger­education at Saint Mary's -ous for the Right to Life Jnd a damned good one, at movement to support him. And -frh.at. it is certainly misleading to Mary Eileen Revord pro-life voters when The Observer publishes letters stat­ing that Mr. Rea~an supportsReagan 's pro-life Right to Life convtctions when he appears more concerned about the pro-life vote than
stand questioned pro-life p.rinciples. 
Bill Schweinfest 

Dear Editor. Recent letters in The Observer have implied that 
Victims ofrape
Ronald. Reagan is a supporter of pro-life principles. These letters have presented a mis­need compassionleading impression. 
As governor of California, Mr. Reagan supported and Dear Editor. signed into law the 1967 
"Theraputic Abortion Act," This letter is in response to which permitted abortion in Marie Caulfield's insensitive cases of rape, incest, and and unknowledgeable attack on health. As a result, abortions Katherine Catanzarite's letter 
increased from 518 in 1967 cancerning rape and incest and 
(when abortion was only per­abortion. mitted to save the life of a Ms. Caulfield states that Ms. mother) to over 138,000 in 1972. Catanzarite was being very 
Over 340,000 abortions were self-righteous in her letter. I performed under the law with find it very difficult to reconcile Mr. Reagan's signature. The compassion with self-righteous­inclusion of the broad area of ness. Ms. Catanzartte was physical and emotional health asking for compassion on our apparently legalized abortion part in order to see chat on demand in California, and abortion in cases of rape and was supported by Reagan. incest is not always a black and A Feb. 29 letter endorsed whit.: issue. She refused to Ronald Reagan for his ''clear'' judge those women who had or ~.'BUt rhty w«e anti-abortion . position. How­will have abortions due to those 
hiat Juaet..~ I ,koow bec.:atl&e 

ever, he has taken at least 3 circumstances. 
still have the bill 

different positions on the abor­Rather, it is Ms. Caulfield's ~dish~ tion issue in recent months. In letter that is self-righteous.
.Ed\Vina got .··,tltferlsivc!:."· 

a July 29, 1979 letter to Rep. She equates abortion with mur­
don't know why you to ~twu1y 
Hyde, Reagan justified abortion der, even under these circum­
complain. We gave your son They do . ·t only to save the life of the stances. She is trying to impose and daughter-in-law a TiffAny they can tt 
mother. One month later, the her particular religious beliefs
lampshade, and I understand ~wedding ptestmtS. '""'" q,_.,. ,, . , . National Right to I:zfe News on those who do not share theshe's now living with a rock ''What I like about the idea," 
reported that Reagan supported same views. Although she does
star." said Edwina, ..is. that it ,will 
a human life amendment if it · not directly say so, Ms. Cau­If you . think that's sad," impress on the young pe~le allowed abortion for ·health field virtually calls those wo­Diana said, "we gave the that marriage is .very serious reasons (as in 1967). This past men who have abortions, be­Benedict kids a Cuisinart three business, and if· two people February 7, Reagan issued a cause they became pregnantmonths ago and their marriage don't work at it they have .a 
statement to pro-lifer Nellie through rape or incest, murder­was just annulled. It didn't last good chance of losmg .'theu 
Gray that indicated his backing ers. 
as long as the warranty." Corningware." . 
of a "no exceptions" amend­Also, extremely disturbing
Ted said, "There ha.s to b~ a {c] 1980, Los Angeles Tttnes 
ment. was Ms. Caufield's insensitivity better way of dealmg With Syndicate Mr. Reagan's position on towards rape victims. She casually concludes that rape is just another example ofhow life is not always fair. This com­plete lack of sensitivity and insi~ht into the plight of. r3lpe vicums lessens her cred1bil1ty to even comment upon the situation. 
I will never be the victim of rape or incest, nor will I have to decide whether Ol: not to have an abortion due to these cir­cumstances. I am not in a position to judge those who do; only my God can do that. The best I can do is offer compas­sion and understanding to­wards the victims. Perhaps Ms. Caufield should have a talk with her God and see if He would want her to do the same. 
Joseph Burinshas 
Women athletes share in NDtradition 
Dear Editor: 
Some ironic things happened in this year of debate over Title 
IX. Number one, the women's basketball team was invited to Nationals. Number two, four women swimmers--three on the men's varsity team, and one on the women's club--made national cut-off times in several events. . 
The Administration has said that it does not want to recruit women athletes to Notre Dame. But spare the expense and time, FatherJoyce & Co. , there are already several women enrolled at Notre Dame, having passed the admissions re­quirements and paying full tuition, who are ready, willing, and capable of shanng in the Notre Dame tradition--because they want to. 
Theresa Schindler 
Molinelli: deador alive??? 
Dear Editor. 
What's all this about Michael Molinelli being dead? Let's be adult about this. The whole thing is foolish. It's stupid to think that a lot of meaningless clues and signs should lead us to believe Michael Molinelli is dead. · 
What if in Bulgaria (or is it Yugoslavia) the walrus is a symbol of death? What makes people think O.P.D. means "Officially Pronounced Dead" instead of "Ontario Police De­partment" or "Only Paying Democrats?· • 
Who is really sure that all 
those hidden number 9's mean 
something. just because if it is 
recorded backwards it sounds 
like "turn me on dead man!" 
Why bother? 
Frankly, if Molinelli is 
dead, who cares? 
: Lewis Fond/a 

administration of either institution. 
EditoriaJ ~oard and Department Managers
The news is reported as accurately and 
-The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief. ....... .RuEt:mary Mills Sports Editor ........... .......Marlt Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor ..... ..... Diane Wilson Feat11res Editor .... .Kathleen ConnellyBox Q Notre Dame, IN 465.56 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonai Editor.. ............ Ann Gales Photo Editor .............. Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor......... M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor .. .... Mike Lewis Business Manager ........Steve Odland newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor.................. .Mark Rust Prod11chon Manager.....] ohn McGrath ofi:he University of Notre Dame dulac and the free expression of varying News Editor .........:....... Mike Shields Advertising Manager .... IM. Holsinger and Saint Mary's College..I~ does not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC News EditP-........ Margie Brassil Controller..................Kevin Manton nttessarily reflect the pohCJes of the encouraged. Cirot/aho11 Manager......Greg Hedges 
. 
. 


7''r'.,..,.,.. ~ .......~ ••••••••.• ~ •------­
Friday, March 14, 1980-page 10 
Features 
Scholz ·shares Masterpiece 
Many persons feel art, some under­
stand it; but few both feel and 
understand it. HiJ/4rd 
"I collect art only correserve, study and share it. Then, give it to the public," said Janos Scholz, world famous art collector and musician. 
"Few people are as generous as Janos Scholz,'' said Stephan Spiro, curator of the Snite Museum of Art at Notre Dame. 
"Most collectors in janos' position would keep their collections private,'' said Dean Parter, director of Snite. 
Clearly, Janos Scholz ·ould be called a phenomena in tht" world of arc. In the nearly 70 years that Scholz has been collecting, he has amassed one of the most prestigious and reknowned collections in the country. Scholz is very well known in the Notre Dame community. In 1967, he loaned 50 drawings to the exhibition "The Life of the Virgin," and. in 1970, he made loans to "The Age of Vasari." He has served on the Art Gallery's Advisory Council since 1968. He has also spoken here 
janos Scholz in his study 
numerous times and gave a cello Scholz cited the 60s as a time which concert in 1973. His gifts to the he found hurtful to students acade­university include fine manuscripts mically.and 19th century EtUopean photo­"There was a terrible slump then," graphs. Scholz said thoughtfully. "Who 
But most important of all, Scholz is knows why and who knew wl;lat to do? 
AU. FEMALE CA~T &CREW 
now permittin~ the Snite Museum of I had a hard time understanding. MyArt to exhibtt the show "Janos students would come to my old New Scholz, Musician and Collector," York house and see that it was nice 
which contains more than 250 objects owned or at one time in the collection of Scholz. Amon~ the works being displayed are Italian drawings, Euro­pean graphics, Turkish rugs, Renais­sance bronzes and a viola da gamba created by the greatest German violin maker, Jacob Stainer. 
This exhibit is not about the objects themselves though, but rather, it is about the man who collected these objects. Scholz has devoted a great part of his life to collecting and to sharing his collection with others. 
Scholz developed a passion for art at a very young age. As a boy in Hungary, he participated in excava­tions of prehistoric and Roman sites around his home. He built a library and categorized these early fmds in order to preserve some of the heritage of his country. 
Despite his love for art, Scholz' ftrst 
love ts music. He graduated from the 
Royal Academy of Music in Budapest 
and, in 1932, joined the celebrated 
Roth Quartet. He traveled with the 
quartet to the United States in 1933 
where he was offered citizenship. 
Traveling around 'the United States 
with the quartet gave Scholz an 
excellent opportuniry to purchase 
fine pieces for his collection.· His ftrst 
major collection was of Northern 
graphics and consisted of more than 
1,000 ~ieces. Today, it is placed in 
the Phtladelphia Museum of Art. 
For the past 20 years, Scholz has 
been teaching. Upon meeting him for 
the first time, the average person 
would have to realized that this man 
was made to teach. As he speaks in 
his heavily accented voice, it is easy 
to tell that he loves his life and what 
he is doing with it. . 
"I have been teaching my students 
in my Park Avenue apartment," 
Scholz laughed. "They say I am too 
old to be on staff at the university so 
they give me all sorts of titles and 
now my students come to me. It is. 
good to be so personal. I know each of 
my students by name and what 
makes them click." 
and start shouting about capita!Jsm. TheY. did not know that I can be just as bberal too if not more." 
Scholz described himself as a violent union member iii Hungary. 
"Yes, I was a card-carrying union member,~· Scholz said. "But some of the union members, they were kooky. They always had to be right. I got into many violent scraps because: of this. Once, I even busted a whole musi­cians' union single-handedly." 
"I am glad the hard days arc: over with roy students," Scholz contined. "Now, they are all so eager to learn. I try to open their eyes to what is true and what is false 10 art. I tell them, 'Forget about the name of the piece or the age it was done in. Concentrate on the object itself, what it represents and how it was conceived.' I try to show my students how each piece is perfect to its own way." 
Scholz believes that students benefit from observing ll!f. 
"you must be. willing to give and accept what is there," Scholz said. "I give my studeq,ts drawings to smell, taste aAd touch. The secret of a good teacher is that he must light his pupils' inner ftre. I teach them to shoot high, but to never lose their footing. 
Scholz smiles and continues, "I 
have collected so many things in my 
life, but I enjoy other things. I play 
my cello and cook. It is all very 
normal. I don't consider myself 
famous." 
He pauses. "Life is different now. It 
is miserable to see my old friends 
dying off. But I am keeping up. I have 
such a good life." 
The "Janos Scholz, Musician and 
Collector" exhibition has opened in 
the new Snite Museum ofArt and will 
be there until May 28. Hours are 1-5 
p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays and 10 a.m. -4;45 p.m. on weekdays. The art museum is part of 0'Shaughnessy Hall, immediately norrwest of the 
stadium. Mary L.eavt.tt 

Jaquez Directs 'Uncommon Women ' ' 
Theater major Lisa Jaquez, thou~h active in the Notre Dame/Samt Mary's Theater, was tired of plays "like: Hamlet, with fifty guys and three women." So she decided she was going to direct a women's show, for a class 'practical', ''if it killed me.'' 
Uncommon Women and Others, a two-act row~y comedy ~y contemp­orary Amencan play'wnght Wendy Wasserstc:in, was the answer, "a play for women, about women, by a woman," according to Jaquez. But the ND senior took her idea one step further, organizing a backstage tech­nical crew that consists only of women students. 
J aquc:z commented that while male 
students did not resent being ex-
eluded from the backstage crew, a 
few offered to dress up as women for 
parts in the play. Such offers were 
declined. 
Uncommon Women presents the 
reunion of five graduates of Mount 
Holyoke in a restaurant in 1978, then 
flashes back to 1972, back at the 
universiry, when the women were all 
seniors. Any woman who has lived in 
a women's dormitory can easily 
relate to the seniors' banter about 
sex, drugs, and James Taylor, and 
occasional soul-searching questions. 
''There's something about the 
show that's special to me," Jaquez 
remarked. "Guys will like it, but it'll 
really hit the women--they'll recog­
nize the situations.'' 
The five central women in the play 
are Muffet (Anne Slowey), a thor­
oughly charming miss who takes life one-day-at-a-time; Rita (Adri Trig­iani), a cheerfully-loud Italian deter­mined to "make tt with everything," including a shoebox; Samantha audy Curlee), who's out for her M.R.S. degree; Holly (Carol Cera), a very well-dressed and indecisive Jewish girl; and Kate (Annie Patterson), an atl-American student unsure whether to pursue a career in law. 
Other women in the "college" scenes include Mrs. Plumm (Mary J o Hicks), the girls' kindly, bird-watch­ing housemother; Susie aoan Quin­lan), a bouncy rah-rah who unfor­tunately never gets exhausted; and Carter (Mary Ptgott), an intensely 
'private freshman. 
-"There really is no plot-action, the play gives an overview of a modern woman's dilemma, the problems she faces," Jaquez explained. "Some of the women end up very successful, some don't; that's the way it is in life. All the characters are bright and witry, and have a certain awareness of themselves, and their roles in sociery. They've all gone to a stl'J.ool where they were raised to believe in themselves as women. 
''It shows women working together for equality in everything, and the importance of friendships.'' 
Uncommon Women and Others 
will be performed A{>rill5, 16, and 17 in Regina Auditonum, at 8 p.m. Admission is free. 
Molly Woulfe 

-~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

Features 
Friday, March 14, 1980-page 11 

LETTERSTOALONELYGOD 
The Need For A Vineyard 


Pacino ''Cruising ''for a Bruising 
Chris Stewart 

At breakfast in the North Dining Hall, the young man asked me what I thought of the non-denominational, fundamentalist Bible-study group he had joined on campus. ''The pnests seem against it," he said, "and I don't understand why. Bible study has helped me deepen my relation­ship with the Lord." Obvwusly, the name of the faith-game is our relationship with the Lord, and priests should be the cheerleaders as young Christians move toward the Cross. Clerics opposing Bible study seem too institutwnal to be trusted. 
"If Bible study helps," I said, "no 
priest should really mind.'' The 
words sounded grudging; I only 
meant to say: "Don't limit your­
self.'' Fundamentalists act as though 
they never knew the Bible had a 
home. Separating the Scriptures 
from the Church they belong to is as 
limiting to Christians as to deny the 
sun and moon the sky to shine in. 
''I'm not against the fundamen­
talists you belong to," I said. "In 
fact, I've had one of your teachers as 
guest preacher at Sunday Mass. 
I'm willing to furnish young Chris­
tians with all the helpf that they 
need. I grew up with Bible-Study 
groups in the Baptist chur-::h. The 
Bapusts furnished me with a half­
way house of faith berween the 
Congregationists and the Episcopa­
lians, on my way to becoming a 
Catholic. 

"Inheriting a faitli," I said, "is like inheriting an estate. You don't settle merely for the bank accounts, the telephone stock, and the silver tea-the film does not intend to depiCt the entire homosexual community, just a particular fringe of it. The warped, alienated, and ultimately dehuman­ized fringe, the sado-masochistic segment. 
"Cruising" is all of the above, and more. Not that "and more" means better. It's J·ust one of the strangest, most unsett ing movies ever produc­ed. 
'Director William Friedkin ("The Exorcist'') has put together a poorly edited, shabbily screenwritten flick. "Cruising's" only saving grace is a dazzlmg display of sU'treal, bacchan­alian images of New York decadence which consistently make the viewer's skin crawl. As one watches "Cruis­ing,'' one feels as if he were in hell. At any moment, I expected Dante to stroll up the aisle with Virgil. 
"Cruising" is a film packed with sexual violence, sleazy bars, infernal passions and enough debauchery to make any closet Calugula drool with pleasure. 
Put simply, it is not a movie for the fainthearted, the fastidious or the JZ. ·""'a.\-· fundamentalist. "Cruising" is a 
,.~:·-· visual bruiser. · 
The advertisements . warn the po­tential viewer: ''This picture con­tains harsh and vulgar language, sex and violence. May be considered shocking and vffensrve.'' The movie opens with a disclaimer, stating that spoons. -You ask for the title of ownership as proof of legitimate possession. You claim the fruit cellar, the vineyards, and the por­traits of uncles who have been hanged as horsethieves. All of these things belong to you as your father's gift." 
He murmured words about having no use for fruit cellars; anyway, it was breakfast time, and still very 
.• early, so what would he want with a "vineyard? 
Bible faiths are nice, and some­times very dee!?; and I wouldn't want to speak slighungly of a Bible faith. But I've never seen a Bible faith yet that has much of a grasp on the Eucharist. I wanted so badly for the young man to believe in the Eucha­rist: the memorial of the Lord's Passover, the bread and wine signify­ing the death and life of the Lamb of God, our peace and reconciliation with the Father. From the Gospel alone, the Word of God of the very young Church, fresh and new from the breath of the Paraclete --before the Didache, Corpus Christi, and the Pange Lingua; before candles were lighted before tabernacles comfor­
table with the holiness of the Lord's Real Presence--how could I make this young man understand his need for a vineyard? 
"The Bible," I said, "did not create itself. People created the Bible. Other people, having authori­ty from Jesus to preach the Gospel, authenticated thetr work as inspired, because the Bible cannot authenti-
The film opens with the discovery of a human arm floating with the flotsam in the East River. Soon thereafter, the viewer finds himself in a cavernous gav bar. Two men in that jammed abode cruise the scene, find one another to their liking, and proceed to a nearby hotel. After some Dionysian revelry, one leather­ed Captain, adorned with sailor's cap, knifes his lissome partner in the 
cate its own inspiration. The Community of people, inspired by God to write or teach the Gospel truth, were believers belonging to the Church. exercising their mmistries of faith. Their Bible, presenting God's word in the form of poetry and parable, myth and symbol, is not self-explanatory. Without the tradi­tion of interpretations, handed down for centuries in the Church, the reality of the Jesus-figure would be lost to us in the richness of New Testamental imagery. Primitives reading the Scriptures without foot~ notes, would be hard-pressed to figure out the doctrines of the Incarnation and the Trinity. Funda­mentalists, like rhe youngest altar boy, owe a debt of gratitude to the clarifications and definitions of ec­clesiastics and scholars, meeting in solemn councils governed by popes keeping faith with the apostles. 
I've never turned in my credentiais as a hard-shelled Baptist; I've never lost my license as a Congregational liberal. I've never forsworn the persuasions of my days of dalliance with the Anglicans, admiring the poetry of Cramner in the Prayer Book more than I admire the prose of Spellman in the Catholic News. My favorite ghosts are Protestant ghosts; my cherished saints are Protestant saints; and I hope to keep company in heaven with the Old-Time ReligiOn­ists who have died clinging to the Old Rugged Cross; more familiar to me than the Spanish mystics, the disem­bowelled virgins, the reformed rakes 
back. As life slowly ebbs away frorr. the victim in this brutal scene the swagg_erin~. butcher demomi~allyproclauns you made me do that." 
Enter Steve Burns, the typically tough talking, likable cop on the beat played by AI Pacino. Burns' macho unsoP.histicated style hardly prepare~ him for hls !JeW assignment: to go undercover tnto the netherworld of ~ew York's steamy, leather idoliz­mg S&M bars to search for the killer. 
Since he physically resembles the victims, Burns' boss (Paul Sorvino) feels he can lure the murderer into a tr~f· Once set up, New York's Finest wtl !?ounce on the unsuspecting tiend, thus sparing the gay commun­i~y from any further heart palpita­tions. 
Burns' subsequent assimilation of the homosexual lifestyle begins to unhinge him. Although Friedkin titillates the audience with pseudo­innuendo and ersatz profundity (Is Burns, deep down, gay? Is he suffering from sexual confusion, a loss of sexual identity, as the investigation grinds on?), it's never quite clear what Burns is thinking about, or what his real emotions are in his novel, frenzied, hypersexual environment. Although Pacino has remarkably communicative eyes, they don't compensate for actual character development and genuine dramatic dialogue, rwo commodities which are woefully, and glaringly, lacking throughout "Cruising." 
As the hunt for the killer escalates, it is accompanied by the incessantly 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
of Umbria, and the French nuns proteged by the Jesuits, canonized in the Roman Martyrology. Some of my finest ex-friends are Fundamenta­lists, and I hope it always may be so. But Fundamentalists make me ner­vous by their simplicities with chap­ter _and verse. Here, in the North Dtmng J:Iall, was. this young Christi­an, talkmg _of hts relationship with J~sus, makmg me feel institutional ~tth the dead weight of the Church's sms on my back; and I wanted him to be my cheerleader as I move toward the Cross. 
"Kid," I said to him in summary, "the Church has its faults. It becomes stained with the limitations of every culture it takes root in. But in its sacraments, its ritual, and irs faith, it heals the deepest needs of man; and the whole heals better than any of its parts, whether that part be bell, Book, or candle. Be careful of the Church, because it is unique among the institutions of the earth. If it should perish, through the attacks of its friends or the neglect of its enemies, there is no other strucrure, defending truth and grace, that can take its place." 
When I left the young man, he might have been satisfied, in his spirirual legacy, to be left with the telephone stock and the silver tea­spoons. I hope I left him with some questions to ask his executors about the vineyard and the family portraits. 
I have had breadfasts that were less productive in my thirteen years of eating at the North Dining Hall. 
pulsating, sledgehammer rock musiC which heightens the intense, danger­ous, cutting-edge quality of the hunt. The music serves as an unnerving subliminal catalyst for the viewer, evoking dark, mysterious images that groups like Black Sabbath and Alice Cooper pioneered during their hey­day in the early '70s. The ~uusic's siriister quality ·reached its zenith as sweaty, sinewy men muscled, bump­ed and bruised one another on ·the packed dance t1oors, becoming an orgy of turgid, rwisting, writhing flesh in search of the ulumate score. 
The ending of this movie is impossibly ambiguous, thus madden­ingly disappointing. If Friedkin was trying to be subtle, it backfired; the result is just plain ludicrous. I left the movie exasperated at the stupid­ity of a director who is supposed to be one of Hollywood's biggtes. 
One thing's for sure. AI Pacino is 
slipping. His illustrious talents are 
bemg stifled, if not outright sabo­
taged, by the insipid scripts that he's 
chosen of late. He wasn't anywhere 
near as convincing a supersleuth in 
"Cruising" as he was in the classic 
"Serpico" Although "Cruising" is a 
genume disappointment, it was not 
nearly as malodorous as his previous 
bomb " ... And Justice For All." 
Thank heaven for small favors. 
Ifhe makes many more like the last 
rwo, Pacino will soon be relegated to 
the celluloid's dung heap of also­
rans. And what a shame, and waste 
of talent, that would be. 
Wake up, AI. You're beginning to 
snore us to death. 
' .. t ...... ~ ' • ' •• "' ' . 


The Observer -Sports 
Friday, March 14, 1980-page 12 
for this weekend's NCAA Indoor Track. Champwnshtps. 
Other lnsh qualifiers include the two-mtle relay team ofJay 
Miranda, Tim Macauley, Pete Burger, and Chuck. Aragon. 
Dziabis will compete in the 600 yard event. [photo by ] ohn 
Macor] 
HAPPY HOUR ALL DAYIIIJ 
•GreenS... 
• 
Drink apeclala ttuoughout the day 

• 
Jud,y Gundetaon In Lounge, 8:00 ­


elebtate St. Patty's Day '"'""'~Q,..I 
With Us. 
1h30am-? 

Get A Little ltiah 
~RS-~
In You At .... ~~ ..........
~ 


Special thanks to all that helped us in our campaign . We really appreciate it. 
JIM TIM BETH DEBBIE 
Applications For­Assistant Treasurer­Snudent(;overnnnent
' 
-must be presently asophmore and going into Accounting -pickup applications in Treasurer's Office 2nd Floor Lafortune -applications due Thursday, March 27 · 
I 
ENGINEEBS 
Federal government agencies are mvolved m some of t.he most unpol'IAnt 1.6ChnologJcal work beln8 done ~ 1n energy fields, corrunwucatlon. transportation. consumer 
prol.eCtton. explormg tnner and outer 'space, and t.he environment Some of t.he JObs are uruque, Wlt.h projects IUld faellltles found nowhere else SalarieS are good, t.he work 1.'1 mterestmg and 
tl'tere are excellent opporturut1es for a.ctvancemenr Our nattonWlde network can get your name referred to agenc1ea m every part of t.he country For mJ'ormat1on about best opportwuttes by specialty and 
loc.at1on, send a coupon or your rebllffie t.o 
Engtntlt'r H.ecrwtment. Room 6All 
Urut.ed StAf.l>t> of Amtonca. 

otnce of Penonnel~~ana&emem 
Wash1fllf\.On DC 20415 

AI1 F.q..JAJ Opportumty Employer 


Nuna 

CIIY ...... Z>p 
Un.Jv ,eou 
Tel No 

Alutnni stotnps Stanford, Dillon nips Grace in Interhall playoffs 
by Mark Perry Sports Editor 
Those traditional South Quad rivals, Dillon and Alumni, will be battling again this Sunday, this time for the interhall hockt:y tide, as both teams won semifinal games yesterday at the ACC. Alumni used a three­goal spurt in the first five minutes of their game against defendin~ champion Standford, as the B1g Green cr_uised to a 5-1 win in last night's opener. 
In die second game, Dillon tallied a late goal to edge North Quad champion Grace, 4-3. 
Alumni's Mike O'Connor and Randy McNally scored a goal apiece in the first two minutes of their contest against Stan­ford, as the South Quad cham­pions swarmed Stanford goalie AI Levorone. Nick Marrone's shot from inside the left point five minutes into the first period gave Alumni a 3-0 lead that would never be challenged. Brian Dean was the only bright spot for Stanford, as he scored the Studs only goal with 
9:45 left in the period on a screaming slap shot from the left point on a breakaway. J?ean 
• • • Duke, Purdue, UCLA win 
[continued from page 16] , 
Purdue-76, Indiana-69 
LEXINGTON, Ky. (AP)-Drake 
Morris and Keith Edmonson 
scored 20 points apiece as 
20th-ranked Purdue stunned 
No.7 Indiana 76-69 in a semi­
final game of the NCAA mid­
cast Regional basketball tour­
nament last night. 

The Indiana-Purdue game was 
the rubber match between the 
intrastate archrivals, who split 
a pair of Big Ten contests in the 
regular season. Purdue, 21-9, 
built a 37-26 halftime lead, 
despite playing the last 10 112 
minutes of the first period 
without All-American center 
Joe Barry Carroll. He was 
benched with three personal 
fouls and scored just four points 
in the half. 

The Boilermakers started the 
second half with two free 
throws by Edmonson and pos­
session of the basketball, 
thanks to a technical foul assed 
against Hoosier Coach Bobby 
Knight after the first half had 
ended. ­

The loss offset a brilliant 
performance by Indiana fresh­man Isaiah Thomas, who led all scorers with 30 points. Mike Woodson added 14 points for 
the Hoosiers before fouling out 
with 4:01 remaining. Carroll 
and Mike Scearce had 11 points 
apiece for Purdue. 

UCLA 72, Ohio State-68 
TUSCON, Ariz. (AP) · Fresh­man Rod Foster and sophomore Mike Sanders scored 19 points apiece as the UCL/\ Bruins upset lOth ranked Ohio State 72-68 last night to move into the finals of the NCAA West re­gional basketball tournament. 
The Bruins hit 5' of 6 free throws in rhe final 3 7 seconds of play to seal the victory. UCLA will square off against Clem-/ son, in the regional champion­ship Saturday afternoon at the Umversity of Arizona's McKale Center. 
The Buckeyes led by as many 
as seven points i~ the first hal.f, 
behind the sconng of Calvm tesred goalie Frank Schornagle several times after that goal, but the Alumni netminder was up to the task, including a great glove save on another break­away. 
O'Connor scored his second goal ofthe night late in the first half, workins a great two-on­two break w1th linemate Mike Marrone, who had assisted on the earlier goal. 
The second period was score­less until late in the game, when Rich Conlon scored off a pass from Tom Acton to ice the game for Alumni. 
Dillon gained the early advan­tage in the second semifinal match, as Mike Duggan poked in a shot on Dillon's first rush after the opening faceoff, only 20 seconds into the game. 
But Grace set the stage for the ni~ht when they scored a few mmutes later, as Tim Collins directed a shot past Dillon's Dan Marchiori on a mad scram­ble in front of the net. The first period ended with a 1-1 tie. 
Marchiori was outstanding in the nets on a Grace power play early in the second half, turning back several shots, but Grace came back to score two quick 
Ransey outside and Herb Wil­liams ms1de. 
But the quickness of UCLA began to pay off late in the period as Foster, Sanders and Darren Daye led a Bruin charge that left Ohio State at least temporarily bewildered. The Brutns tied the game with 4:30 
remaining  in  the  half  on  a  
Sanders  hoop  and  forged  a  
35-31 lead at intermission.  

Clemson-74, Lamar-66 
TUSCON, Ariz. (AP)-Forward Larry Nance and cencer ] ohn Campbell combined for 31 poims to lead the Clemson Tigers to a come-from-behind victory over the Lamar Cardi­nals, 74-66 in a semifinal game 
Freshman Steve Dziabis (above) travels to Detr?it, 
goals. Greg Fisher outran a defender on a clearing pass and slipped the puck between Mar­chwri's pads to give Grace the lead, and Pete Livingston tal­lied on a quick wrist shot off a 
faceoff to make it 3-1  with  10  
minutes left.  
Leo Duggan started  the  Big  

Red on the road back a few minutes later, as he grabbed a rebound on the right side of the net, swept behind the goal, and then stuffed a shot ·past a surprised Bill Burke to make it 3-2. 
Then Duggan assisted T<;>m Ebzery on the tying goal a few minutes later. · 
The score remained a 3-3 tie for several minutes, but just when it looked like an overtime was coming, Mike Reff slipped a backhander into the net off a pile up to give Dillon the lead with 2:02 left. 
Grace tried valiently to come back, pulling their goalie with 39 seconds left while they were on the power play, but Dillon defenders and Marchiori kept the puck out of the net. 
Dillon and Alumni will face off for the interhall title this Sun­day at 1:30 p.m. at the ACC. 
regionals last night. 
The Cardinals led through much of the game, grabbing their biggest lead at 47-37 with 
16:11 left in the game. How­ever, the taller Tigers reclaim­ed the lead for the first time since midway through the open­ing half, 59-57, with just under eight minutes to go in the game on a jumper by guard Chris Dodds. 
The Tigers gradually raised their margin to 65-60 with five minutes remaining and prompt­ly went into a stalling game, forcing the Cardinals to foul. Although the Tigers missed on several one-and-one opportuni­
ties  in  the  closing  minutes,  
Lamar  was  unable  to  take  
advantage,  throwing  the  ball  
several times.  

The Observer -Sports 
Friday, March 14, 1980-page 13 

Netters prepare for hollle opener 

.·-.LaCrosse 
[continued from page 16] 
the Irish finished fourth. The 
two teams, however, did not 
meet. 
The results of the regional 
held last weekend, might lead 
to a touch of overconudence on 
the part of the Roonies, but 
Petro isn't counting on that. 
"I think they're too good to be 
cocky," she warns. "They're 
without a doubt the best team 
I've seen play this year." 
Indeed, coach Mary Hansen 
has built a powerhouse at 
LaCrosse, led by a pair of 
talented juniors. Lorraine Petz­
laff, a 5-7 swingman, is the 
Roonies' top scorer with a 12.1 
average. Petzlaff also hands out 
4.4 assists per game, tops on the club. 
Darcia Davis, who co-captains LaCrosse along with Petzlaff, is the Roonies' top all-around player. The 5-10 center carries averages of 11.2 points and 8.2 rebounds per outing. Ann Mahnke (11.0 ppg) joins Davies and Petzlaff in double figures. Reserve Judy Hamsmann is the Roonies' top rebounder, grab­bing 8.3 boards off the bench. 
IRISH ITEMS-Five Irish players had friends or relatives at Wednesday night's game in Tacoma--Molly Cashman, Maggie Lally, Missy Conboy, Jane Politiski, and Jane J erges­
en. Sophomore forward Patti O'Brien and Jergesen, a fresh­man guard, both saw action late in the game after missing over a month with injuries ... O'Brien grabbed a rebound and won a jump ball two days after having a cast removed from her ankle, while J ergesen got into the scorebook by converting one of two free throws ... a small, but enthsiastic crowd greeted the Irish at Michiana Regional Air­
port last night. 

Sports Briefs ___ 
Latz seeks bookstore commisioner 
Leo Latz, departing commissioner of the Bookstore 
Basketball tournament, is currently searching for someone to 
serve as commissioner for this year's competition. 
Interested students, preferably sophomores, should contact 
Leo at 8338. 


1980 lenten Sermon Series 
'1HE NAME ABOVE EVERYOTHER NAME" March 16 Br.Joseph McTaggart,CSC 
"JESUSCHRIST IS LORD" March 23. 
SUndayVespers 7:15pm Sacred Heart Church Lady Chapel 
by Michael Ortman Sports Wn'ter 
Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home. 
There may be only three tennis courts in the Athletic and 
•Convocation Center, and they 
may be chipped and scuffed from mobile homeshows and the 
~ 

like, but the Notre Dame tennis team is glad to be playing on the!'fl just the same. 
After posting a 2-2 record after their flrst four matches (all on the road), the Irish men open a 10-match home stand Sunday afternoon at 1 p.m. against the much-inproved Ball State Car­dinals. 
''Ball State is coming off an excellent spring trip, tn Flori­da,'' notes Irish head coach Tom Fallon. "They got a lot of good tennis in down there against some quality competi­tion ..•"\ know they're going to be ready for us." 
Eighth-year coach Bill Ri­chards brings to South Bend a team he calls the strongest he's had at the Muncie, Ind., cam­pus. The 1-2 record his team accumulated in Florida includes a 7-2 win over Florida Southern and a pair of close losses to Central Florida (4-5) and Rol­lins (3-6). 
The Irish haven't played shab­by competition either. Notre Dame's two wins came at Eastern Michigan (8-1) and Iowa (7-2). The two defeats were at the hands of Big Ten powerhouses Michigan (0-9) and Wisconsin (3-6) with the Badgers winning two three-set doubles contests to take the match. 
"It's certainly going to be an advantage for us to be playing at home for a change,'' says Fallon, who is rapidly ap­proaching his 350th career vic­tory at Notre Dame. Last Sun­day's win at Iowa brought his 24-year totals to 346-129 and leaves him two short of fencing coach Mike DeCicco for Notre Dame's coaches all-time victory mark. "In a way, we're fortu­nate to be 2-2 at this point. Hie win over Iowa was easily our best performance thus far, and I think it was just what we needed to get things going." 
The Irish roster will be the same as it was last weekend with freshman Mark McMahon playing number-one singles fol­lowed by the team's senior captain Carlton Harris. Juniors Herb Hopwood and Mark Ho­ye~ will fill the number three and four slots, and sophomores Tom Hartzell and Tom Robison will play five-six, respectively. 
The doubles lineup will also remain intact with Harris and Hopwood teaming at number­one and McMahon and Hoyer ·1t number-two. The most effec­~ive pair thus far, in terms of wins, has been the duo of sophomore Jim Falvey and freshman Tim Noonan which sports a 3-1 record. 
Seating is available in the ACC, and there is no admission charge. 


MASS 
Sunday March 16 4:30pm 
LAFORTUNE BALLROOM FATHER FITZ LIGHT SUPPER SERVED 


BREAKTIME DIRECT O'HARE $15 EXPRESS $15 
from NOTRE DAME CIRCLE 

~---------------------------------'' 
START WITH ACOMPANY 
THAT IS GROWING 
AS FASTASYOUARE 
GAONTH (volume in S miHtons)  



l "1...... I 
·-'
ProtJresstve Companies is a family of specialized insurance 
. companies which provtde insurance coverage for owners of recreational vehicles. personal avtomobiles. and commercial transports. Our-friends who ar~ erecting this bar chart couldn't think of a simpler way to tell you: We're growing rapidly and we intend to follow this pace in the future. 
We've succeeded because we have been highly innovative in a stodgy industry. We are young-our President is in his forties, and the median age of our senior managers is in the thirties. We are resourceful-we have discovered highly profitable ways to servtce markets others have ignored. We are demanding -we ask a lot from our people because the growth we're planning takes considerable effort, intelligence and dedication ~ We can't use career paths or promotion timetables. Advancement is based sotetv on achievement. not seniority or politics. That's the way we have grown. and that's the way we'll continue to grow. Rapid increases in responsibility mean 
rapid increases in compensation. This won·r impress you until you discover that our starting sa1aries are even higher than 
those of many Fortune 500 corporations. 
On March 19, we will tell you more about ourselves and 
available positions in a presentation at 7:00 p.m. in the 
Shamrock Room of the Morris Inn. 
All indivtduels interested in performing in the foltowing 
capacittes should make a point of attending. 
PRODUCT MANAGER FINANCIAL ANALYST 
MANAGEMENT TRAINEE 
March 20th is PROGRESSIVE'S DAY on campus. At this time we would like to discuss with you the significant opportunities available to qualified individuals. Contact the Placement Office to ensure you are on our schedule 
.
progre.r.n/e . 
co111panJer 

We are an equal opportuntty employer M IF 
The Observer -Sports 
Friday, March 14, 1980-page 14 
... Carney

Molarity by Michael ' 'R.I.P.' ' Molinelli 



Pigeons 

The Daily Crossword 


by Jim McOure/Pat Byrnes 
ACROSS 24 'To-and 46 A husband 12 Went fast 1 Clarsach to hold" of Liz 13 Went fast 5 August 25 Plead Taylor 18 Lacoste 
10 Makes a 27 Abhors 47 Equip for of tennis 
decision 30 Head-battle, 19 Condition 14 USSR city heels old style 23 Elbowed 15 Verdugo of 31 Knobbed 48 -kicking 25 Strokes of 
movies 33 Digit 52 Enlarge lightning 16 Cut short 34 Telescope 55 British 26 Occurrence 17 Place for part official 27 Give to 
seeking 35 Forefront 57 Copycat a cause sales 36 Mailed 58 More , 28 Bracing 20 Selection 37 Explosive factual drink 
21 22  machine Worked with a stenog· rap her Devices for heating liquids  38 41 42 44  Active places Spruce Played for time Very hot sauce  
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved:  

© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd.lnc. 3/14/80 scene, 56 A Washing· All Rights Reserved sometimes ton abbr. 

SPOTliGHT PSYCHOLOGY--13fast-paced and exciting quarter-hour features ofuseful and interesting information which every individual should have. 
This s~nes 1~ a "first:' in its effort to enhance public awareness of recent developments in thr-soence and practice of psychology and of potential impact of research findings on the daily lives of us all. This week's top1c is: 
INSTITUTIONS: GREYING WITH AGE? _ contemplates why institutionalization is often more lethal than old age itself, and suggests ways to mediate the ph_ysicaland psychological deterioration ofour institutionalized elderly. 
Be sure w listeJ! tu WSND Sunday evenin~ at. MidLli.jl:ht.or, Tuesday eveau~.g at 11:45 _pm. ·-,, 
59 Moral 29 "Ready, -!" standards: 32 Tried for abbr. office 
60 Not so much 36 Like some 61 Aegean nights island 38 Birch tree 62 Wedgie 39 Insects 40 Former DOWN actor 
1 Scuttles George 
2 Mars: comb. 43 Smitten 
form ones 
3 Agents 45 Bath: Fr. 
4 Dishes 48 Bedouin 
5 Withdraw head cord 
6 Slippery-49 Go at an 
7 Turned to easy gait 
the right 50 A Charles 
8 Years: Lat. 51 "Flower­
9 Locks Song" 10 Eight·line 53 Starchy stanza root 11 Street 54 Different 
[continued from page 16] 
uncoordinated. ·I never thought I had any athletic ability." 
Then how did the impressive history of the Irish captain come to be written? 
''The mental aspect of fencing gets me through all its physical demands," Carney relates. "I enjoy the intellectual challenge, the brain to hand coordination. I hate to run and train -I only do it because it helps me with my footwork and endurance." 
Carney made the move to Notre Dame when UVA's fenc­ing program was threatened due to lack of funds and the departure of its coach..~he earned the number one posJtJon on the team her first season with the Irish and has never relinquished that standing. Her squad has posted an 11-2 mark this year en route to a second place division finish and a birth m the national finals. 
Dodee is more than satisfied with the fending program at 
N.D. and heaps tremendous praise on her coach Michael DeCicco. 
''I didn't realize when I came 
here that he was the reason 
Notre Dame's program was so 
good. Now that I'm here I 
understand-his fencing exper­
ience and teaching ability are 
great, but his personality pulls 
this team together." 
There is some amazement on 
Carney's part when discussing 
the lack o interest surrounding 
the fencing program. "It seems 
incredible to me that the fen­
cers, especially the men who 
have been champions, do so 
well nationally and yet some 
students aren't even aware that 
we have a fencing team." 
The English major has no 
specific career plans after gra­
duation but would like to move 
to an area offering a good 
amateur fencing program. The 
1984 Olympics ·are a possibi­
lity in her mind if she attains 
national ranking as an amateur. 
"Fencing has been a part of 
my life, bringing the two worlds 
of the body and the mind 
together. It's made me realize 
that you can't emphasize one so 
much that it negates the other ­
the relationship between the 
two is important." 
"When I'm fencing really well I'm in another world -total euphoria. I'm constantly trying 
t.o put myself in that world emotionally when I'm compet­ing." 
For Dodee Carney, it's a way of overcoming her handicap of ability. 


------------~----------------~ 

Finocchio's 
(4

PizzaParlor 
Georgetown Shopping Center 1 
ND 

St. Patrick's Day Special! 
Monday, March 17 }6-lOpm 
-----------~-~-----~~
.. 
I II $1 QQ Pitchers of Miller, I I • Miller Lite or Strohs I 
I 1. 50 Pabst cans 1 I 
JL~--~~-~~--~-~~~_l!:~~E!!~~L2li-4~::!_l 
' 
. 
The Observer -Sports friday, March 14, 1980-page 1~ 
... Attack 

[continued from page 16] 
pointment for Greg Meredith in his career as an lnsh icer is the much publicized fiasco in at· tempting to decide the future of hockey at Notre Dame. With the same fervor in his voice as he put forth just a month ago to the administration of the Uni­versity, Greg reitereated his position of making the sport a first class operatton to msure success. 
' 'The university right · now recognizes that it wants to let the hockey team play only if it makes money. They should fmd the resources and students alike, then it would be sure to break even. You can't send a 
team on the ice without publici­R:h' .the captain noted thought· 
What will Greg be doing after graduation? The Atlanta Flames of the NHL have al­readY. cantacted him about the posstbility of turning pro, so he hopes to finish the season healthy and talked to the Omni-based hockey club after the 

playoffs. If Greg s!gns with the Flames, he'U-jomOlyinpic goalie Jim Craig, ex-ofSoston Univer­
sity, in the Peach Tree City. 
Notre Dame hockey followers know what kind of a void losing this steady, dependable right winger will create. Good luck, Greg, you'll be missed ... 
\ 


Friday, March 14, 1980-page 16 

Sports 
NDvs.ND 
leers continue title drive 
by Brian Beglane their own backyard. shoulder. ] unior]ohn Cox once Sports Writer "We will have to be a again wiH get the call to step in disciplined dub this weekend at defense. 
GRAND FORKS, N.D.--The because it should be a physical Because of the injuries, Notre Dame hockey team does series. We played them well Smith 'wiU skate with the same not have ro wait for the NCAA last series even though we lost lines as last week wit.b one Final Four in Providence, R.I., both games. I feel, however, change. Freshman Mark to participate in a national we are a group of competitors Doman wiH skate at left wing on 
· h" That which can rise to the occasion. I the fourth unit with Bave Lucia 
champtons tp game. ' 
showdown takes place at the It wiU be a very difficult task and John Higgins. 
W.tnter Sports c t here to and now. is the time to meet the Smith also said he wiU defin­
en er ­night and tomorrow evening chaUenge before us." itely go with Dave Laurion in when the Irish face off against -North Dakota won the Jan. goal tonight and if he plays top ranked North Dakota, the 11-12 series, 7-4 and 3-l, for its weH, the sophomore netmmder Western Collegiau~ Hockey fifth and sixth victories, respec­also wiU get the nod for the Association champion for the tively, over the Irish. The second game of the series_. last rwo year, in a two-game, Nodaks post a .27-8·1. over~! After this W(ekend, three total·goals second round playoff record thts year, mcludmg 1~ m teams from the west (WCHA series. WNDU-AM. will broad-a row ~t .~orne. Coach Gmo and CCHA) wiH remain in 
cast both ~ames back to South G~s~artnl s club tro_unced 
contention for the two bids to Bend begmning at 8:2~ p.m. -Mtchtgan State, 13-4, m the the NCAA tournament in local time. first round ~f the playoffs. , Providence. The top team of "We realtze North Dakota s the three wiH automatically get
The Irish, 
now 18-18-1 n"er­successful record at home," a bid while the remaining two
all, won a first round WCHA Smith said, "but that gives us wiU meet in a one-game playoffplayoff series for the secol?d 
aU the more incentive for the next week at a sight to betime in their nine-year lea~ue series. Remember, we broke a determined.
history last week by defeaung 17-game unbeaten streak at The three teams wiH be
Michigan, 11-7, the total goals '-­
Michigan during the season." seeded during a conference call 
Senior Co-captain Greg Meredith will lead Noire Dame
series. Ironically, North Dakota The Irish take a 12-8-1 road of the NCAA tournament 
ag_ainst the North Dakota Fighting Sioux in the second round
was the victim the last time record into this week's series. committee at 9 a.m. Monday 
of the WCHA playoffs this weekend. [phot by John Macor.J
(1972-73) Notre Dame won in Injuries, which Notre Dame mornmg.
the first round. 
could not avoid aU season long, 
"North Dakota certainlr wili also have taken their coli on the be ready for this series,' said lineup. Irish coach Lefty Smith, "so we Sophomore center Dave have to make sure we are ready Poulin wi!l be sidelined for the 
Optimistic Meredith leads the attack 
ourselves. This series wiU be second week in a row with a even tougher than if we were thigh contusion he suffered in playing them in the NCAA the last regular season series of by Michael Previte Being the articulate, modest off a heavily favored home tournament because they are the year. Senior defenseman Sports W n·ter team leader that he is, Meredith team, as they did in December. 
the No. 1 team in the country John Friedmann also will sit out shunned ail talk of goals, It was then that the squad was 
and we are playing them in with a partially separated He is the ~:aptain of a ship that scoring records or personal so decimated by injury that has sailed many turbulent wa­thriUs. He spoke of a close knit Marcus Welby would have been ters in the 1979-80 hockey team operaung under adversity helpless. Alas, all the Irish did
Women returnfrom coast, season. A quiet, hard-working due to injury. He candidly was visit the Big Red (Ivyplayer who exemplifies leader­stated what it would take to League) Machine at Cornell and ship through example both on defeat the Fighting Siol,lX. sweep the weekend series. and off the ice. Through four "My proudest moment in a
prepare to face LaCrosse 
seasons at Notre Dame, he has Notre Dame uniform," Mere­
' ' ...Heveryone plays as
amassed an amazing total of dith adds. 
by Craig Chval Petro's players stopped bad 
101 goals as a steady dependa­sea­
Sports W n·ter in South Bend just long enoug~. can be well as they are capable In reflecting on his four 
ble right winger who sons as a member of the Notreto attend Friday classes and fma counted on to score in dutch Dame community, number six
The next stop for the Notre out how far behind they were ofplaying, I think we
situations. 
stresses his involvement as aDame course, United States after missing the better part of 

Greg Meredith has enjoyed his student first and hockey player 
Geography 101, otherwise two weeks of academics. have enough to stay
four years at Notre Dame. Avid second. Such~ philosophy made 
known as the women's basket­"AH of the traveling we've with them.''
Irish fans knew there was 
him a finalist candidate for a

ball team, wiH be LaCrosse, done lately has created some something special about the Rhodes scholarship earlier this .
Wis. problems as far as keepin~ up Toronto native when he notched "It's very (lifficiilt to say," year.Coach Sharon Petro's nomads, m school," says Petro. 'But 23 goals in his rookie season of said the husky captain. "We'll Meredith calls this hockeyjust back from an oft-delaxed every time I rurn around they_' re 1976-77. need one of our top effons of team 'something unique.' "The
flight from Seattle and a harned 
srudying. I just hope the g1rls The records, of course, speak the year. They are very physical caliber of people we have onnearly-missed connection in can kee_p their minds on basket­for themselves. As the Irish so the games will be tough." our team all have the same · 
Chicago, will take to the air ball a lmle bit." aJ>proach this weekend's semi­But, he adds wryly, ''. . . If goal-excellence in athletics and 
again tonight bound for God's While Petro and her squad fret final playoff series at Grand everyone plays as weH as they education. This gives us aCountry, as J. Heilman Brewery 
about finding a harpy medium Forks, N.D. ( that's North are capable of playing, I think healthier sort of atmosphere.
likes to call it. 
, between basketbal and books, Dakota for aU you diehard we have enough to stay with The comraderie is alwaysThe Irish earned another fling 
the-University ofWisconsin-La" domers,) Greg is only two goals them.'' there."
with the friendly skies by virrue Crosse Roonies threaten to away from tying Eddie Btim­Of course, Greg would like Perhaps the biggest disap­of a come-from-behind, H-48 
cause an even bigger headache. bacco's a!l-ttme Irish scoring nothing better than to see the 
victory over Pacific Lutheran record of 103 tallies set in 1974. team puH together and knock [conh·nued on page 15]
College in Tacoma Wednesday LaCrosse boasts a 24-4 record, night. Notre Dame, which a number five national ranking reached the magic 20-victory and the Division III Midwest circle (20-9) for the first time in Regional championship. The Astop fencer its three-year existence, is one Roonies ran roughshod through of the final 16 teams in the the Midwest Regional where AlA W Division III national 
Carney relies on intellect, emotion 
championship. [conh"nued on page 13] 
by Kelly Sullivan 
women's nationals every one of Sports Writer her four years as a co!lege fencer, and will lead the Irish A wise man once said that when they compete for the success in athletics is only 10 national championship March 
Kentucky,lndiana,OSU lose 
Duke-JJ, Kentucky-54 
Purdue. 

percent physical and 90 percent 27-29.
LEXINGTON, Ky. (AP)-Gene Kentucky had a chance to win 
mental. One athlete who swears But the senior from Sanford,Banks hit a game winning free the game after calling time out 
by this "mind over matter" North Carolina, has relied onthrow with 22 seconds remain­with nine seconds to go, but 
philosophy is Notre Dame fen­inteilect and emotion to obtaining and his Duke teammates Ail-American guard Kyle Macy cer Dodee Carney. these statistics. Carney admitswithstood a furious closing rush missed a 17-foot jumpshot with 
One !Dight gather from Car­that she has little narura! ability.
by Kentucky as the 14th-ranked five seconds left. The ball 
ney's accomplishments that she In high school, athletics hadBlue Devils upset the founh­caromed to the free throw line, is a natural born athlete. She been a way of life for her, butranked Wildcats ~~-~4 in a where Kentucky's Dirk Minnie­ranks number one on the wo­athletic success had not.
semifinal game of the NCAA field launched a desparation 
men's team, spons a 31-8 ''I was a really poor vo!leyba!l 
Mideast Regional basketball shot that fell short. Kenrucky's and as
record, serves the player and a last P.lace swim­tournament last night. Derrick Hord was unable to tap squad's captain. Carney, who mer," she says. ' I've alwaysThe victory boosted Duke, home the follow-up. shot before transferred to ND after two thought of myself as reallv20-8, into Saturday's regional the horn sounded, 
years at the University of 
championship game against [continued on page 12) [continued on page 14]
Virginia, has qualified for the 
Dodie Carner 
-r 2 -= . . r==mew··nr :ii®4Met'·"t±'ciltr·' 




