...MoreRocky -page 6 

VOL. XV, NO. 8 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1980 
In Poland 
Crisis continues despite settlement 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) -the coal mines are still on strike" 
Workers said 500,000 Silesian in the mining region. The paper 
coal miners remained on strike repeated previous government 
yesterday despite statements by reports that a final agreement 
t~ ~munist government was near. 
that it would meet the strikers' Most ofPoland's otherstrikers 
demands in an effort to end returned to work Monday after 
Poland's labor crisis. pushing the country to its worst 
In Katowice, center of crisis in a decade and winning 
Poland's vital mining and in­concessions unprecedented in 
dustrial region about I 60 miles the Sovlet bloc. Strikers, with 
southwest of Warsaw, workers their power center in the Baltic 
said 17 mines had been closed by port of Gdansk, forced the 
strikes, idling some 50,000 communist leadership ofEdward 
miners and a number of workers Gierek to grant them indepen­
in related industries. dent trade unions, the right to 
Warsaw Radio reported that a strike and release of jailed po­government commission under litical dissidents. Deputy Premier Hleksander The 18-day-old strike by some Kopec had found the demands of 600,000 workers in more than 20 miners at 10 coal pits to be cities a!so led to a sweeping "acceptable in their entirety" government shakeup. and that it was "ready to sign an Silesia is Gierek's power base agreement" with the joint strike and has about 325,000 workers committee. mining coal, Poland's major 
But hours after the an­export for earning foreign cur­nouncement, there was no in­rency. A protracted strike in the dication that a signing was near. mining heartland would be a­A spokesman for the govern­nother blow to Poland's econ­ment information service inter­my, to Gierek's political future press would say only that ne­and could also unravel the gov­gotiati,~ns might continue "for ernment's settlement with port hours. workers. 
There was no official explan­In Moscow, articles Tuesday in ation for the delay, but a dis­the Communist Party daily sident source in Katowice said Pravada and the government Tuesday afternoon that the is­newspaper Izvestia made clear sues were not completely resol­that the Kremlin was still angry ved. and concerned about the situ­
The afternoon Warsaw news­ation in Poland. The articles paper Express Wieczorny said warned that "anti-socialist ele­other plants dependent on coal ments" were threatening "and several not connected with Poland's future. 


Syrians consolidate African front 
DAMASCUS, SYRIA that toppled the monarchy and ended in failure because of Syria agreed yesterday to yet propelled him to power. Sources painful rivalries within the Arab 
another experiment with Arab said Khadary would come here fold. unity-this time with the oil­soon to firm up the merger Diplomats expressed skepti­rich north African nation of blueprints. cism about the Libyan-Syrian
Libya. Some diplomats ques­"The Syrian people and myself merger plan and said it would be tioned the practicality of such a were deeply moved by your unity premature to comment before merger. appeal," Assad told Khadary in a the results of the Assad-KhadafySyrian President Hafez Assad message broadcast by the state­talks were known. Sources said said the result of such a move run radio. 
the two leaders discussed the would be the consolidation of "This unity appeal has struck plan in a phone call SundayArab defenses against Israel. an immediate favorable response night. He sent his approval of the amongst us." 
Arab affairs experts, who crit­unity plans to Libyan leader Col Damascus is the birthplace of icized the Egyptian-Syrian unity Moammar Khadafy, who pro­the Arab Socialist Baath Party effort from 1958-61, voiced theposed the idea in a speech which originated the Arab unity same mtsgtvmgs about theMonday marking the 11th an­philosophy in the 1940s. Syria planned merger between Libyaniversary of the military coup has led three unsuccessful unity and Syria. 

experiments: with Egypt in 1958, Libya in 1971 and Iraq in Libya and Syria are 500 miles 1978. apar-t by air,. they said, and this 
When Assad tried to unite his would render military coopera­Mediterranean country with oil­tion difficult between the rich Iraq, the attempt collapsed Sovietequipped armed forces of amid rivalries between the two the two countries. But Libya's oil wings ofthe Baath Party that rule wealth, they added, could be a the neighboring Arab nations. boost to Syria's efforts to up­
At least three otherattemptsat grade its war preparations a­Arab unity in the 25 years have gainst Israel. 
Rector finds kegs 

Graceparty runs dry 
One of the many crowded clear the hallways, and with parties on campus last weekend inviting more people than could was broken up by the rector and be accomodated within rooms. his assistants in Grace Hall after a Students in Grace did agree keg was found in one ofc section that "the place was just packed" 4-C's rooms. Three students in but claimed they had little con­that section, who requested that trol over the number of people their names be withheld pending entering the "Florida" party and their appearance before the ju­noted that the party rooms in dicial board of the hall, are Grace have not yet been avail­charged with having a keg on able for use this semester. campus and face a possible fifty Under the new directive from dollar fine and/or other penal­Dean of Students, James ties. Roemer, the keg itself was 
In a report from rector Brother turned over to ND Security and Charlie Burke the three students will not be returned, so the three were also charged with "slow Grace residents will lose around reaction" to the request to bring tendollars in deposits in addition the keg downstairs, failure to to having to pay a possible fine. respond to head staff requests to 
(continued on page 5) 

















News Brie s 
Wednesday, September 3, 1980-page 2 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Inside Wednesday
Twelve members of the Whittier High School, Calif., football team were struck by gunfire yesterday afternoon during football practice when two shotgun blasts were fired at the practice field, police reported. None of the 
Time for a change:
injuries were serious. One adult and one juvenile, however, were arrested and their car was impounded immediately after the incident, authorities said. The two were booked for investigation ofattempted murder and shooting at an inhabited dwelling. 

mountains and molehills 
A military judge yesterday turned down a defense request to eliminate one ofnine potential jurors for the 
Pam Degnan
court-martial of Marine Pfc. Robert Garwood of Adams, Ind. Attorneys for Garwood said Capt. R.A. 'Feeter, a food-services officer at Camp Lejeune, should be eliminated from the jury 
Once again it is the beginning ofa new term for student bettermen.t of student life at Notre Dame. because he appeared unwilling to accept some of the lines of 
government, and once again The Observer finds itself Which leads me back to Paul Riehle and his defense planned for the case. Garwood, a 34-year-old Indiana 
questioning the roles and functions of certain cabinet. The student senate proposal can be the native, disappeared while driving a jeep near Da Nang in 196). 
political bodies on campus. buildingblock needed to solidify all the extensions He returned to the United States last year, saying he had been 
Take for example the Campus Life Council. It of student voice on campus. Here is a chance for held captive by the Vietnamese for almost 14 years. Jury 
was to have died a very quick death over the students and faculty to interact about issues that ~election began with a panel of 10 people, and one ofthose was 
summer according 'to Student Body President affect your daily lives without feeling oversha­eliminated last week. She was 1st Lt. Donna Woods, the only 
Paul Riehle. Last year Riehle proposed that a dowed by the hierarchical presence of admin­woman among the potential jurors, who was removed at the 
student senate composed of student represen­istrators such as Van Wolvlear and Roemer. And request of the defense. Vaughan Taylor, an attorney for 
tatives and faculty members would take the place the Riehle Administration has shown that it does ( ;arwood, asked Switzer Tuesday to close the jury-challenge 
of the CLC. This would result in 1.) a more have the willingness and determination to make sessions to the news media because he was afraid news coverage 
effective student voice and 2.) would serve as a sure that a campus-wide student voice can and will would prejudice potential jurors. That was opposed by pros­
be heard. 1 ·cutor Capt. Werner Hellmer, who argued "This case is being 
"viable" channel between students and the 
administration thus providing more opportunities So why bite the hand that can feed you? It has 1ried in the courtroom, not in the newspaper." 
for real concrete change-something which the reached the hallowed third floor ofLaFortune that 
CLC has failed to accomplish in the past. 
many student government reps feel thatbserver is Just look at the physical nothing but a hindrance
President's Carter's son Chip con-
structure of the CLC and to their -policies. And " firmeJ ycsterda1 that the White House had warned him to leave 
you will understand why ore disheartening to hear the Panama City, Fla., area in 1977 because Customs officials 
this governing body has is some snickering that planned a drug raid nearby. He insisted to reporters that he, 
no real power to imple­The Observer prints only knew nothing about the drug raid at the time, and he asked why 
ment change of any kind. the negative aspects of the matter was being reported now "three years after the thing 
It is composed of the student government. happened." A White House spokesman confirmed earlier that a. 
student body president, Granted, we may have telephone call from President Carter had prompted Chip to 
hall presidents, .hall rec­created mountains out of leave his beach cottage two days before the raid. 
tors, faculty -members, molehills when it con­student union represen­cerns , student govern­tatives and most decisiv­ment activities, but un­ely Jarnes Roemer, dean fortunately the bottom
A soap-makine: olantinHatumond,Ind. 
of students, and Fr. Van line of such activities ishas been identified by federafOfficials as a possible source of W olvlear, vice-president of student affairs. This that theyare molehills. And when you stop to thinkcontamination that has forced repeated closings of Chicago makeup allows for students and faculty members of how many times the CLC, along with theirbeaches this summer. Hammond was told to make tests to to discuss and debate important issues that affect fruitless debates on the keg proposal, parietals,determine the condition of its sewage conveyance systems at the life ofthe students on and offcampus just as its etc. has appeared on the front page (which avid discharge points from the soap-making plant and from two title implies. The one important hitch_ to this lies readers know is many) you would wonder why weother locations. Additionally, the tPA ordered Hammond to within the voting power of the council. would bother to print anything at all. Perhaps if stop discharging into Lake Michigan from its Robertsdale Once an issue is discussed, debated, and drafted student government starts building a fewstorm water pumping station because tests showed the into a detailed proposal, it is then ready to be voted mountains... well..need I say more?? 
presence of bacteria. 
on. If the issue is approved, it then surges forward The objective of this column is not to attack to Dean Roemer's office, where it usually slides Paul Riehle or student government. That would into a two week state oflimbo and then is politely not accomplish anything except for maybe a returned to the CLC with a nice neat "no." couple of verbal skirmishes. What I would like toColumbus, Ohio A city nationally recog­Always keep in mind, though, that if both Van do is point out that the student governmentnized as a center of modern architecture may lose its 8)-year­W olvlear and Roemer sit on the council with structure as it stands now is ineffective andold city hall unless preservationists can find a buyer. The voting privileges, and then vote again on the warrants change. Get rid of the excess waste. Getbuilding currently is owned by Cummins bngine Co., and a proposal as administrative representatives, well, rid of the Campus Life Council. Institute thespokesman for the firm, Max Andress, says the company only that just doesn't leave much breathing room for student senate proposal in its place. Maybe it willbought the two-story building, listed on the National Register change. not guarantee any immediate change, but at leastof Historic Places, for $23),000 after no other buyer surfaced. 
It all becomes so illogically frustrating, what it has viable possibilities. 
The 1976 purchase enabled the city to complete financing with appeals being voted on and then rejec;:ted. Change is an abused word on this campus. Butnecessary to begin building a new city hall, expected to be ready CLC approval. Administration rejection. Hate to for now, that is the only word that needs to be said.
for use by early April. But Cummins plans to ask the Columbus 
say it, but theCLCshould andmustdiesoon ifPaul
City Council to clear the way for demolition if a buyer isn't Riehle and his board have any kinds ofplans for the
found by mid-February. Citizens Savings and Loan Association President Lynn Barhimer says his firm has offered to buy .the building but intends to tear it down to make way for drive­lhrough banking service and a parking area. 

_The_Qbseryer_ 



SENIOR TRIP 
fle.riKn F.dttm·, ....... , ... Scoop Sullivan Hitch-hikine: All the way from his home in 
A.r.rt. !le.rip1 Rd. .... , .. Kevin Korowicki 

REMINDER!!!
Pattv Fox 

t ~.difornia, Charles H. Szy~owskiaa has arrived in Norfolk to 
Joe o·o~nnell 

''1~· nothing. Szychowskiaa, 28, has been going around saying 
Night Te(hmdon .............. Mike Jans nothing for 3-1 12 years. He can speak, but he doesn't want to 
!loy Te(hntdtm . .......... Bill Fitzgerald 

$365 will be due on Sept.
Typist.r ........ , . , .. , ... , Kathy Murray 

<tntil he can get things straight in his mind. His next goal is to 
Mvrtle Perkins 

1\'ork his \Vay across the Atlantic Ocean on a ship so he can say 
Katie Bigane 

8,9 & 10, along with 
Jim King Kathy O'Dell 

nothing in l:urope-preferably in French or German, ifhe can 
!earn .1 foreign language. 
Bobbi Wenz 

room picks·

He stopped speaking to improve himself in whatever way 
Pam Parson 'uch discipline would effect an improvement. That's what he 
Photographer ............... Helen Odar 

More infonnation will he mailed 
Editorial Loyo11t. ....... , Margaret Kruse Features Loyo111 . .......... Molly Woulfe 

wrote on the yellow legal pad when asked why he says nothing. 

to you at the end ofthe week. 
He also wrote that his refusal to utterasound isn't related to any 
Sports Loy;11t. ...... , ..... Brian Beg lane 

:ult or religion. No particular incident mot.ivated him to keep 
nay Editor ........... , ... Molly Noland 

Anyone interested in getting on the waiting 
1is mouth shut, he wrote. He just decided he wouldn't speak 
until he was ready. 

list should bring a $50 deposit to the Student Activities office this week. 
Ronald Reagan stood by an automobile 
The 0bserver (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday

.tssembly line and said the government should convihceJapan 
Offcampus seniors pick uptrip letter in
except during exam and vacation 

to slow "the deluge of their cars into the United States." 
periods. The Observer Is published 
by the students of Notre Dame and

Otherwise, he said, import competition could give rise to a new 
studenty student activities office FRIDA.Y
Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions

wave of protectionism in the United States. 
may be purchased tor $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer. P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class 



Anyone with questions call
Sunny and hot toda~, with temperatures in the 
postage paid. Notre Dame, Indiana 
46556.

80s. Chance of thundershowers tonight with temperatures 

Anne-1669 Donna 4-1-5103 or,
The Observer is a member of the

~~ping into the 60s. Sunny and less humid tomorrow. 
Associated Press. All reprod uctlon rights are reserved. 


Mike-1606 Martha-4-1-5236 
L---------------------------------------~----~---­
The Observer Wednesday,September 3, 1980-page 3 

The temperate South Bend weather induced many students to create more t:njoyahle methods ofstudy. Simtlar conditions are predictedfor today. (photo by Helen Odar) 
Whykids can't read: 
Geneticd~ficiency? 
SAN DIEGO (AP) -Some intelligent children simply can­not be taught to read, and society should accept that fact instead of wasting money and time in a vain effort, according to the head of a learning dis­ability clinic run by the nation's largest prepaid health plan. 
"It's like a physical handicap for some kids, a code they'll never break," said Dr. John H. Richards, director of the Kaiser-Permanent learning dis­ability clinic in San Diego. ' 
"Let's not say a: child is a "lilure just because he can't do one thing,." Richards said. "Ifhe can't read by the age of1 3 or 14, encourage him to go into other areas where reading isn't es­sential." • 
There are "geniuses with an IQ of 150 and over who can't rt::ad and never will be able to," who deserve a chance to earn fame and fortune, Richards said in an interview. 
"We all were brought up that you're dumb if you're illiterate or certainly that you can learn with enough special instruc­tion," Richards said, "But after 13 years of research, I'm con­vinced that simply isn't true. 
"There comes a time to give up trying to teach them to read and start letting them live around it." 
Richards, a 46-year-old pe­diatrician, said at least 2 percent of young people unable to read can become successful "when they're out in situations where they don't have to read; at least 
HELP WANTED 
not out loud." 
The toughest thing for par­ents is to admit it, he said, "but they're gradually beginning to understand they're putting an awful lot of money and time into kids who will never learn to read." 
Almost 500 remedial reading patients are seen annually at the clinic, which opened in 197 5 for children from families with Kaiser medical insurance. The clinic, part of Kaiser-Perman­ente's nationwide group of 30 hospitals and 110 medical of­fices, acts as the pupils' advo­cate through their schools, providing diagnostic tests and recommending treatment. 
At the clinic, Richards said, the parents are told that "some children don't have that neur­ological connection to break some sorts ofcodes you need to break-reading is a code with nothing to do with one's basic intelligence." 
Richards said a child who is forced too long to try to learn to read "will begin to hide his handicap and mess himself up. Let him say 'Here I am, I can't read,' like if he doesn't have a right leg so don't make him play soccer. 
"Admit it, some people just can't read," Richards said. "Not everybody can be Willie Mays, just as not everyone can learn to play golf...lt's OK if the kid 
feels  all  right  about  himself  
even if he can't read.  
"It's  not  the  end  of  the  
world."  


NOBLE ROmANS PIZZA 
Granger Store only (across from University Park mall ) 
Both young men and  ·Part time waitresses  
women  (must be 21yrs. old)  
. Part time pizza make11  



Itr:mlfu; 
at 277-5300
Call Kathy 
Gettingalong fine 

Co-eds reside in highschool dorms 
By john M. Higgins ­
The women of Villa Angela would like to let everyone know that they are happy and healthy and don't need any sympathy. This was the message conveyed by both the residents and the rector of the temporary dormitory located on the property of St. Joseph's High School. 
"We've become the sob story ofthe campus," resident Alice Aimette said. "I'm really sick of hearing 'Oh, you poor thing!' just because I live here. I'm getting along just fine. 
The residents remarked that they are being treated very well by the rest ofthe campus. "The halls on campus have made a special effort to include us in their activites," Rector Dolores Ward said. She pointed to an invitation from residents of Flanner Hall to a section pig roast and to a vase of flowers sent by residents of Zahm. "It's things like this that make the girls feel welcome," she added. 
The major complaint voiced by the residents 
... Lake 
(continuedfrom page 5) 
The lake is very rich in nutrients which also promote algae growth. When the dead algae falls to the bottom it decomposes, James Litton, as­sistant professor of biology, said. "This decomposition adds to the' nutrients causing new algae growth. Copper sulfate is 
used  only  for  cosmetic  pur­ 
poses.  It  has  no  long  term  
effects," he added.  

(continued on page 4) 
was the reliability of the shuttle bus between the dormitory and campus. "I just spent an hour running back and forth from Notre Dame to SaintMary's," resident Lynn Placke complained. "The bus driver said that he didn't go there for another 30 minutes." 
"Saturday the buses didn't run at all," Alyssa Aimette said. "Sunday they ran but it was prcr,tty sporadic." 
"You really begin to have doubts about the service," Placke said. "They want us to ride back and forth on the bus, but if it's not reliable, we're going to walk." 
According to Mrs. Ward, Student Activities Director Dr.James McDonald was "arranging to work out problems" with the shuttle but didn't know just when the scheduling difficulties would be cleared up. "I think it's just lack of communication with the drivers," she said. 
"I'm just tired ofhaving everyone tell me how sorry they are that I live here," Placke said. "I like it here." 

*•················\
~ S~£ UA~ IUIIUI<S * 

: ~IIUIU-a 
~ UJIItild Jnilrl l~ill'ltt ~· l ill 1J1j~r 41-jJ,j4 ~ ~ ~r rnilr~l~ IJm§§d ~* ctt 111j()f 41-j1JC) * 



~•••••••••••••••••~ 


NOW4 STORES 

QUARTS (percase) Blatz $7.59 
Busch $9.19 Budweiser $9.19 Colt 45 $8.69 
Falstaff $8.09 Hamms S8:2s Miller $10.09 
MillerUte $10.49 Old English $9.89 Old Milwaukee 58.64 
Olympia 59.39 
Pabst 57.59 Schlitz 59.89 SchlitzMalt 510.09 Schoenling Uttle Kings $8.98 
Schoenling Big ..l.Jg 58.29 
1.ic1unr  t·unt:~· IW~  
!'iltUt t:.-5~  
\\ im•  FullfA~~t' 1:1~  


stores opt·n 9-9  
KEGS  
Budweiser $37.00 Michelob Strohs Pabst Miller Miller Ute  $44.00 535.00 532.50 $38.00 538.00  $22.50 $24.50 $20.50 $20.50  

~··············································~ 
:Old Milwaukee 524.98 -! ! N.D. SPECIAL!! :
. : 
BEER SPECIALS Pabst SS.79 
241oose cans 
ptympia S6.09 Miller $6.79 Budweiser S6.59 

john ()'Hanlon· Class of 196;; Sponsur '\ U \'ull•·) lmll Tt·am 
O'Hanlon's 
WAREHOUSE LIQUORS 
The Observer Wednesday, September 3, 1980 -page 4 
Kentucky governor denies presidential hopes ...Lake 
FRANKFORT, Ky. (AP)­Gov. John Y. BrownJr. says it is "totally presumptuous to give any consideration for' national office." 
With that comment, the new Kentucky governor seemed to be backing away from an earlier exploratory move that was gen­erated in part by his aides during the Democratic national con­vention. 
At that time, he said that the presidency interested him as a possible goal and that he has discussed it with his wife Phyllis. 
But in an interview last week,. for me, but I try to curb it," he 

Brown took pains to disassociate himself not only from the pro­motional efforts ofhis followers, but from any desire for the presidency. 
He has "absolutely none," he said, while continuing to hold out the possibility that he may seekanothertermasgovernor­
if a proposed succession amend­ment is approved by voters in November 1981. Brown's term ends in December 1983. 
"There are a lot of people around me that have ambitions said. "I just know that I enjoy what I'm doing, I have a home in Cave Hill (Lexington), a new baby and I couldn't be more happy. 
Brown said he thinks his staff "wentoverboard" in touting him for president recently "and I've already sent word that I don't want any more of that." 
The governor said that of all the political possibilities, anoth­er term in his current office "would be the only one I would have any remote interest in at 




You payyourself-
we'll pay Jerry 
Bud the Can Man wants to makeyour old Aluminum cans helpfight Muscular Dystrophy 
The Jerry Lewis Telethon is gone until next year, but unfortunately ~J!uscular 
Dystrophy is not. 
You can help yourself and help Jerry's kids by bringing your discarded aluminum cans to Bud the Can Man 


~He'll pay you a profitable price per pound and he'll donate an additionall 0¢ per pound to Fight Muscular Dystrophy now thru Sept. 6 


Bremen 

lron&Metal 

3113 Gertrude 
287-3311

South Bend 
this time." 
"The other thoughts and am­bitions are too far in the future to really relate to," he said. "I don't have to have the ego boost." 
Time will tell the effectiveness of his administration and whe­ther he and his wife continue to enjoy it, Brown said. 
"She made a tremendous committment to come down to a new state and she's fit in very well, but I owe something to her interest, too," he said. 
Brown said  he  is "naturally  
flattered"  by  the  presidential  
speculation.  

"ButI don't want that to be the perception of me because that's not where my head is," he said. 
"lfl don't do anything more in four years than run this state on a businesslike basis the way it ought to be run, then I feel I will have done something worth­while without political deci­sions." 
(continued from page 3) 
The copper sulfate can only be added twice a year. If the concentration of copper be­comes too high in the lake it can be toxic to the plant and animal life in the lake, according to Litton. "The biology depart­ment uses Lake Marion to study the ecosystem. It is important to protect it for this reason," Joseph Bonadies explained. 
The bottom ofLake Marion is concrete. The weeds on the bottom are "actually lillies that have been artificially intro­duced. They are held in place with cinder blocks and can be easily moved around," Litton commented. 
When the decomposition builds up on the bottom of the lake it must be dredged. This is also done by Bonadies. This dredging last took place about three years ago, according to Clarence Dineen. 




Bookstore sets new book policy 
by Kelli Flint Senior Staff Reporter 
As a result ofstricter publisher return policies, the Notre Dame bookstore has revised its book return policy, according to Brother Conan Moran, book­store manager. 
The new policy requires both a drop slip and a receipt ifl order to receive refunds for returned books. 
Brother Conan cited several reasons for the new policy. "At a recent meeting in Chicago, publishers expressed concern over the increasing number of books returned to them from college bookstores," Conan said. "As a result, we can't return as many books to the publishers . Now we are only able to return 20 percent of ordered books to the publishers." 
Conan added that student misuse was a consideration in changing the policy. "We feel that the old policy was badly misused," Conan said. "Students purchased books without think­ing, and in many cases brought them all back. Some students purchased our books for classes while they looked for used ones. Consequently, we had an excess of unused books." 
The new book return policy should help everyone in the long run, according to Book Depar­tment head Pat Vanek. "The policy should encourage stu­dents to make sure that they have the correct books," Vanek said. "Previously, we would run out of books during the first week of classes and reorder them. Stu­dents would then return many of the hook~ reordered, and we 
were left with an excess of books." 
Conan, who has managed the bookstore since 194 7, noted that the cost of books has become very high, despite what students may think or say. "We're not operating at " profit on text­books," Conan said. "We receive a 20 percent discount on text­books, but we have to pay freight, which is about 3 percent of the cost of the shipment. Considering freight costs and the new limits on returns, we're operating at a loss on text­books." 
There have been some excep­tions to the new policy, accor­ding to Vanek. "If a student accidentally purchases the wrong book for a class, we will exchange the book," Vanek said. "We will exchange books in circumstan­ces such as this, but we will not give cash refunds without a drop slip and a current receipt." 




ARMY ROTC PROVIDES 
·merit scholarships-up to $20,000 !!! leadership development 
CALL
manageme31t training 


(219) 283-6264
adventure employment opp.Jrtunity Graduate from Notre Dame as an Army Officer 
.. 

Chemicals clear SMC Lake 
By Cece Ba!t'les 
Lake Marion, Saint Mary's 

man-made lake, was recently 
cleared of the algae clogging it. Joseph Bonadies, the head groundskeeper, and his assis­tant, Mark Korpacki, sprayed the lake with copper sulfate to kill the algae. 
When the weather gets hot the algae grows more rapidly, said Bonadies. Lake Marion has both an inlet for fresh water and an-outlet. There is not enough flow to create circulation, so when the temperature reaches 80 or 90 degrees there is a rapid 
-r· 

~ ..Party 

(continued from page 1) 
"everybody in the section will probably chip in a couple bucks," one of the charged students said. He added that no one was pretending the three were the only ones giving the party. 
Brother Charlie explained that the original problem with the section party was simply the crowd of people in the hall. Assistant rector Jack Jones went through the hallway trying to increase in algae growth, Bonadies explained. 
When the algae growth be­gins to clog the lake, Bonadies makes the decision to spray with copper sulfate. This occurs about twice a year1 This week the copper sulfate "killed the algae, and the heavy rains knocked it to the bottom ofthe lake," Bonadies added. 
The algae is an important part of the ecology of the lake. Bonadies works closely with the biology department to protect the balance between plant life and animal life. "The algae is very important because the fish, which are bluegills, not only feed on it, but it also supplies them with oxygen. We just have to put up with the algae," Bonadies said. 
The small size ofLake Marion also contributes to the algae problem. Dr. Clarence Dineen, professor of biology at Saint Mary's, explained, "The Notre Dame lakes are 100 times the size ofLake Marion. Therefore, they do not get the congestion that we do." 
(continued on page 3) 

send people into rooms and discovered the keg after noticing cups and glasses of beer rather than the usual cans and bottles. 
Though "too many invited" was among the charges against the three Grace residents, Brother Charlie clarified the keg as the main issue. "the guys are pretty helpless once the party gets out of hand," he said, but added that leafing through directories and inviting all the girls on campus from Florida could have affected the crow­ding, which was intensified after 
the Polish Wedding at nearby Stepan Center let out. 
The three charged students chose to appear before the ju-• dicial board of their hall rather than accept a fine and hall probation proposed by the rec­tor. After the hearing later this week the three may appeal theJ­board's ruling back to their rector if they are not yet satisfied and finally to the Dean of Students, James Roemer, where the disciplinary buck stops. 


Foreign affairs set candidates apart 
by the Associated Press 
The president said the Rep­ublican Party under Ronald Reagan is not the same as it was under Gerald Ford "and pres­idents all the way back to (Dwight D.) tisenhower." 
Those presidents, he said, were committed to controling nuclear weapons and "not launching a nuclear arms race against the Soviet Union which no one could win." 
Reagan, said Carter, is the first one to depart from that com­mitment. 
"He has announced that ifhe's elected president that he will initiate a massive nuclear arms race against the Soviet Union. This would mean that if he did that then there would be no reason for the United States and the Soviet Union to try to ne­gotiate an arms control treaty. 
"I consider this one of the most serious threats to the safety and the security and the peace of our nation and the world that is being dramatized in this 1980 
election,  and  therein  lies  the  
primary difference."  
Carter spent  a  few  minutes  

alone with 95-year-old Bess Truman in the graceful, century­old Truman home at 219 North Delaware Street, at the corner of Truman Road. 
"I had a very exciting visit with Mrs. Truman," the president said. "It's indeed an honor for a president ofour country to come to the home that belonged to one of the greatest presidents who ever lived and served our nation." Truman died in 1972. 
In Detroit, Reagan talked separately with the chairmen of the Big Three automakers, then toured the plant in which Chrysler is building its new front wheel drive. K-car, the fuel ef­ficient model the firm hopes will be its salvation. 
The Democratic administra­tion · has scolded Detroit for building the wrong kinds ofcars, Reagan told about 200 workers. 
"There is something that government has a responsibility for that it has shirked so far," he added. "That is to convince the Japanese that in one· way or another for their own best in­terest that the deluge of their cars into the United States must be slowed while our industry gets back on its feet." 
Failure ofsuch an effort would lead to protectionism, Reagan said. His issues adviser, Martin Anderson, explained that Reagan would try to negotiate a curb on the number ofJapanese cars imported. 
Before an enthusiastic crowd of 3,000 persons at the Uni­versity of Michigan at Ann Arbor, Anderson restated his oppostion to Carter's draft reg­istration plan and said there should be no discusson of sen­ding American forces to the Persian Gulf until ways have been found to reduce U.S. con­sumption of imported oil. 
"We ought to be willing to make the biggest effort here at home before sending young people to fight in the Persian Gulf," he said._ 

The N D Student Union and Midwest Events presents 
I

······•·····•···················•······························· 



BILL COSBY 
in the round at the N D ACC 

FRIDAY SEPT 5 

•··•·····•······················•·······················•·····•·· 
PLENTY OF GOOD SEATS STILL AVAILABLE 
Tickets :$7.50 and $8.50 at the STUDENT UNION BOX OFFICE 
'I. 


Vt'lla Anl!ela residents "bear" up to their makeshift dormitory while awating permanent dorm space on campus. (photo b Helen Odar.) 
ELIC US FOOD··· 
.. . ATWHOI~FSALEPRICES 
Whether you're preparing for a luncheon before the game, a dinner after the game, or even an evening snack, you'll be glad you shopped at Dick&Co. for the finest quality and variety meats. 
Select from..... . 
Bratww-st Polish sausage Hamburger patties Steaks 
••••••••• and much more 
"Shop where the finest restaurants shop" 
709 North Niles Ave. South Bend, lnd· 
232-9927 

(One block north of 
4ND coMIANY. IHC. Sunny Italy Restaurant 
BILL COSBY COli!BS! 
fte contestant who 4lsplays the 
most creative banner welcoming BILL back to campus will receive agreat seats to the 
Bill Oosby show, DIRRIB for two at the Boar's Read and 

will meet Bill Oosby in personII 
!he second and 'hltd mos' crea,lve con'es'an'• wl11 receive afree 'lckds each to the Bill Oosby ,Jlowt 
JUDGIBG WILL Bll WilD ct 
!HUBS SIIPT · 8 ~ 4 ---= 
~:::;;...­
---=::;;;-­
---=::;;;-­

Wednesday, September 3, 1980 -page 6 





Editorials 
P.O.BoxQ 

ment, because we all say things in certain situations which, with 
Resident 

reflection, we would never say. But I cannot undertand The Observer's inclusion of the

qualifies 

quote, for it was obscure ir­relevant to the article, and in­flammatory. I would hope for
statement 

better editing in the future. Dear Editor, Mike Marz will apologize to In the Thursday, August 28, • the Keenan men, as do I. They 
Observer article, "St. Ed's Res­idents Hope for the Future," I made a statement concerning Keenan Hall that has been taken out of context by some people. I was asked my imme­dia te reaction when I first heard of the St. Edward's fire. My 
•eply to the reporterwas, "Why not Keenan?" This reply was meant as a friendly barb be­tween our two halls. My state­ment was meant as the type of barb that is common among two halls which share the close proximity of St. Edward's and Keenan. •· 
Since it came to my attention that the statement may have been taken as an insult by some people, I want to be sure my true motives are known. Ifany­one was offended by my state­ment, I am sorry; I had no intention of causing disunity among the Notre Dame stu­dent body. In addition, I would like to thank Keenan Hall, as well as the rest of the halls on campus, for their helpfulness in the temporary resettlement of the members of St. Edward's Hall. 
Michael Marz St. Edward's = 300 Grace 


Rector backs 
MarZ . 
Dear Edttor, 

tributed to one of our resi­dents-"Why not Keenan?" The paragraph was poor!. 
written and the meaning of the quote unclear: " ... Marz ques­tioned whether it was practical or realistic to reopen the dorm by the end of the year and simply said, 'Why not Keenan?' " The implication is that Mike 
Marz would have preferred that Keenan, and not St. Ed's, had burned. 
I called Mike and asked ifthat is what he meant. He said yes, but that the remark was made without thought, was sponta­neous and irresponsible, and­that he did not hope for any disaster, to anyone or anything. 
I can understand Mike's state-have been good neighbors in th~ past, and we wish only good thmgs for them -except when we meet in interhall football. 

M~rio Pedt; O.S.B. Rector, St. Ed s Hall 
============ 
'Rocky' showing misunderstood 
Dear Editor, 
Brian Crouth (Sept. 1, P.O. Box Q) recently criticized the Notre Dame Student Union's supposed tacit support of the sexual mores and "degenerate" 
values ofthe movie "The Rocky Horror Picture Show." 
While I can agree with Mr. Crouth's statement that the movie was an "advocaton ofsex on a pure pleasure-orienta­ted...plateau", I would like to voice some opposition to his statements concerning the motives ofthe StudentUnion in showing the film. 
The showing of "Rocky Horror", or any other film for that matter does not imply the approval of the sponsoring body of the statements the film expresses. The Studexit Union provides (ostensibly) acts and speakers for the campus to consider intelligently, it is not invested with a mandate to force its opinion upon th 
As rector of St. Ed's, I have student body. e been most appreciative of the sensitive and supportive co-Just as the invitation of verage of our Hall fire and its Timothy Leary to the campus aftermath. I was most disap-last year does not necessarily pointed therefore, to see in constitute the Student Union's Thursday's article a quote at-endorsement of his possibly 


Doonesbury 
dubious philosop y, and just as the reading Qf The Communist Manifesto and other Marxist works does not constitute University support of the "breakdown ofsociety" (to use Mr. Crouth's term, the showing of "Rocky Horror Picture Show" does not imply that the Student Union endorses (or denies support of) the mores and values the film represents. 
My conception of a univer­sity, Mr.. Crouth, is not of a place which "produces" stu­dents of any particular per­
• suasion (save that toward the 
love of learning), but of a 
community which exposes stu­dents to a variety of opinions and invites informed consi­deration of those opinions. 
In the terms of Mr. Crouth, the result of the sort of cen­sorship he seems to advocate would presumably be a "sick" (incapable of forming its own value judgements, or of func­tioning independently) rather than "healthy" mind. Whether "Rocky Horror" is or is not "smut" as Mr. Crouth states, is a moot point. The more impor­tant question raised (unwit­tingly perhaps) by Mr. Crouth is that of the extent to the Notre Dame Student Union feels it necessary to mold the thoughts of the student body through a movie selecton policy based upon the perceived danger to the virgin minds of the univer­sity. 
If the decadence to which Mr. Crouth objects is exposure to presumably adult and capable minds (and souls) to a variety of opinions and conceptions of 
reality, then I must be counted with those in the crowd at "Rocky Horror" who were chanting "Up With Deca­dence." More of that sort of decadence is needed here. I leave Crouth to another variety of smut, pre-digested opinions, conceptions of morality ac cepted without question, and unexamined maintenance of the status quo. Michael Case 713 St. Louis St. 
IWN!Ct 7{) Yl3, MA:4M. NOT1fT MEZT YOV, AN!l IT 141A5 ALL. I M/CHI'£L. fJI[) NICE OF >WR WA'31N 'rOU HAV&A HU98ANlJ70 7H~ VI­
"Holy Grail.")

'Rocky' 
Jeff Schiflgens 



mvttatton Commissioner defends
to laugh • 
Dear Editor, screenmg
This is in response to the Dear Editor, comments ofMr. Brian Crouth I write in reference to Brian in the Sept. 1 P. 0. Box Q, in Crouth's recent editorial "Rocky which Mr. Crouth voices his Horror; an Abuse of Morals." disgust at the showing of"The Mr. Crouth, calling our showing Rocky Horror Picture Show." of"RockyHorrorPicture Show" My question is, is Mr. Crouth an "Abuse of Morals", surely disgusted with the movie, or is mistook the purpose of this he so unsure of his own sex-movie. Anyone who has ever uality that a movie of sexual viewed a movie before would puns, which "RockyHorror" is, realize after seeing "Rocky causes him anxiety? Horror" that this "raunchy 
It has been my experience flick" was not intended to be that sex is such an easy medium taken seriously. This movie is for humor because, all boasting shownaround the country as an aside, it is the one thing most audience participaton produc­people are inexperienced with. tion. As was seen (if you were 
Speaking of sexual humor, present at the movie), the aud­where was the hue and outcry ience participated entusiastic­when "Animal House" was on ally-without this voluntary campus? Perhaps a movie that active involvement, there shows drinking, womanizing would be no "Rocky Horror." college kids is okay because it Mr. Crouth asked, "Why is a builds up campus moral; but student organization ofa major laughing at a crazy transvestite Catholic university using such a isn't. Or in "The Holy Grail," vehicle for mere profit?" I did for the audience to yell"cut off not realize that the Social his arms, cut off his legs ... " is Commission was a profit ceo­okay; but"upwithdecadence," ter. The movie was very ex­is out. (Incidentally, how many pensive. The audio-visual equip­people do you knowwho would mentand advertising each added want to paint their face, wear a to our cost. At one dollar ( $1.00) corset and nylons, and have sex per person, you accuse us of with everyone they see?) ng "mere profit." Any profit 
My point is that "Rocky realized from this movie will be Horror" is just another form of spent on some other social comedy. It is not an invitation function for the students of to do what the characters do, ND. but rather, an invitation to Your description of "Rocky laugh at the crazy antics on the Horror Picture Show" was screen. quite graphic and, in my opin-
I believe it is high time that ion, a bit exaggerated. If the people realize that sexual hum" students who attended our or is not "low-minded," or an showing of the "Rocky Horror indication of"low morals" and/ Picture Show" were in any way orsexual ethics; buta fashion of adversely influenced by it, I cer­humor. A fashion as valid, en-tainly do not see the results. joyable, and unbelivable as a What I did see, though, was a man's stories about him and his group of 3,000 people having a brother Russel. The playing of good time on campus on a "Rocky Horror" is an indica-Friday night. Is that not our tion of this change, and I am goal as Social Commission? pleased to see it. (I also liked Tom Drouillard "Animal House," and the 2NDSU Social Commissioner 
====================~=~=======~~~~=~~~======~=~~====~ 




GarryTrudeau 
7HANI< 'tO(}, 
NONEBJ,
f113AR.. SHALL 
/JI3AR&5T.
/A£ IA/ALK UP I K&PT7HE 707H&MAIN ORJVER. 
Ihe 


Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
'(he qbserver is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Umverstty of~<?tre Dame du ~-c and_ Saint ~1ary'~ C<?lle~e. It does not necessarily reflect the pohc1es of th~ a~m1mstrat1on _of etthe~ m~ututlon. The news is reported as ~c<:urately and .as ?bJecuvely as poss1ble_. Eduo_n~ls represent the opinion of a maJor~ty of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentanes, opm10ns, and letters are the views of thetr authors.. Column s~;>ace is_ ~~:vailable to all members of the community, and the free expressiOn of varymg opm10ns on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief ............ Paul Mullaney SMC News Editor ........... Mary Leavin Managing Editor .............. Mark Rust Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman Editonals Editor ........... Mike Onufrak Features Editor .............. Kate Farrell Senzor Copy Editor ......... Lynne Daley Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe News Editor .................. Pam Degnan Photo Editor .................. ] ohn Macor 
News Editor ................ Tom Jackman 
Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges ·News Editor ............... ] ohn McGrath Advertising Manager .. Mike Holsinger SMC Executive Editor .. Margie Brassil Production Manager .... Ann Monaghan 
The Observer Wednesday,September 3, 1980-page 7 
--------------~-~~~-------------~----.__....-...,
• 
-

' 

Lite $6.9Q,, Kamchatka 
4 1202000 

Most major brands warm or cold s2 99 . 
Qt. prices-89¢ . • ' 750 ml ~j/l(fl III Iiiii'III II 1/ I I /1 III II' ill! q111111111 iilitf/1/1/fli/llfl//trr(1f/I!(/M 
~ . 
Red White 54 99
and Blue Beer _ • 
24/12 oz cans warm or cold 
Natural Lite 
$6.99

by Anheiser Busch 24/12 oz cans warm or cold 
J&BScotch 59.99 
liter 

Canadian Mist 510.49 
1.75L 

Bacardi Silver $4.99 
750ml 

Cocktails for Two $2.99 
750ml 

Tia Maria Liqueur $8.49 
23oz 

· Martini & Ross SWeet 
$3.99

Martini & Ross Dry 
750ml 

F. Schoonmaker 
$3.99
Riesling 
750ml 

J. Roget Champagne S1.99 
White 750ml Pink Spumante ~ --rrrrrrn'TTTlllT,rrrrrrr!trrrrffT! 


GALLO 
Burgundy· Hearty Burgundy Chablis Blanc Rhine 
Vin Rose 
Pink Chablis 
$4.99JL 
!!!!!!!! 

COLAS Shasta 
s4 99

Diet Shasta · 
Pepsi 
$5 99

Diet Pepsi. · 
Coca Cola 
$5.99

Tab 
24/J 2 oz cans 
1621 South Bend Ave 233-4603 
254 Dixie Hwy. Notth 272-2522 
1725 N.lronwood 
272-1144 
2934 mcKinley Ave 233-9466 
1426 mishawaka Ave 287-7744 4401 S. michigan Ave 
291-2600 200N.matn 
-· 
Elkhart, lnd 
6502 Grape Rd mishawaka, lnd 


-~-­

Features 
Wednesday,September 3, 1980-page 8 
r 
Don't Forget to Wonder Why You're Here 


College students hve constantly 
under the threat of betrayal. It can 
come from any of us-teachers, 
administrators, rectors, fellow stu­
dents, campus ministers. 

It happens when one engages in the 
subtle conspiracy to hide the truth or 
to forget it. When the anivcrsity 
prostitutes herself and abdicates her 
principles in order to curry favor with 
benefactors. Or when the very edu­
cation offered does not intend to make 
better people but to stuff minds with 
facts. 

The great danger of college is that education will be seen (and designed) primarily as a preparation for making a living instead of a preparation for life. It can function for gain and not for growth. 
In many universities, .for example, the humanities don't humanize, they neutralize. Students are asked the wrong question ("When you graduate, what are you going todo?") whereas the real question is: "When you graduate, what are you going to be?" The chief concern should be what kind ofperson you will become. 
The temptation is to reward students for successfully acquiring information that will enable them to fit into our present system, with all its faults and superficiality, its consumer Pt-enzy and materialistic self-serving. This is the educational plague called "vocation­alism." It would have us train and not truly educate; itwould have us be more of a technical institute and not an authentic university; it prepares young women and men more for task than for life. 
"Vocationalism," to use the words of Fr. John Dunne, "is the danger of the limited goal. When a career becomes the goal, it is like seeing all the way to the end of one's life, but with most of life left out. This sort ofvocationalism . breeds tunnel vision ... and also un­happiness. As one pursues a limited goal, there comes a dissatisfaction with one's whole life." 
Another form of collegiate betrayal is "indoctrination." This educational perversion would have the school educate not humane and decent people but safe citizens-manageable ve>ters, manipulable consumers and, if 
~­

need be, in the case of war or crisis, willing killers. We have no shortage of examples of superb educational ma­chines, spectacularly effective in teaching students how NOT to in­terrupt the evil patterns that they see before them, how NOT to question and how NOT to doubt. 
Finally, schools betray students to the degree they foster a bloody co­mpetitiveness, which works against the goals of forming community­something that is meant to charac­terize higher education. Many students are now taught that they have to make it on their own and at the expense of others (who are trying to get into med school, for example). This competi­tive, non-cooperative education is defended as a means ofreadying young adults for "the real world," with its ungodly, dog-eat-dog competition over the scarce resources ofwealth and power. 
These ~re some of the challenges before us this year at Notre Dame. What, for example, is all our learning for if it is not to render service to persons? That is the criterion, after all, 
Snite to House University Art Treasures 
From the seemingly endless roar of 
construction presently on the Notre 
Dame campus, one particularly ex­
citing building is about to emerge in 
its finished state. 

Begun in October of 1978 with a 
projected cost of 3.7 million dollars, 
the Snite Museum ofArt is scheduled 
for dediction November 9. The 
gallery will rank sixth in exhibition 
size among university museums in 
the US presenting a 12,000 piece 
collection worth nearly five million 
dollars. 

This awesome display of art has 
been developing since the 1840's 
when Father Sorin began the col­
lection. Originally, the works were 
housed in the Notre Dame Archi­
tecture Building, and were moved to 
O'Shaughnessey Hall in 1966. There, 
space allowed for only one tenth of 
the collection to be shown. Con­
sequently, thirty percent of the art 
work to be exhibited in the Snite 
Museum will have never been pre­
viously displayed. 

Construction was initially funded 
by a two million dollar donation fron 
the Snite family ofChicago, longtime 
patrons of Notre Dame. The balance 
uf the 3.7 million dollar bill was paid 
by alumni donations. 

Physically, the Snite Museum has been as thoughtfully planned. The building is contemporary, yet simple enough to fit into the traditional atmosphere of the Notre Dame campus. Ambroise Richardson's straightforward architecture pro­vides the potential for changes needed to fit any new concepts in the future. Of the four levels in the structure, one consists solely of offices and conference rooms,while the remaining three boast dynamic art collections arranged chrono­logically. 
On :;he lower level, one will find the Ethnographic Art Gallery and the Victor Higgins Gallery of Western Art. Works ranging from 3500 B.C. to 1700 A.D. will be shown on the Snite Museum's ground floor; 
the Ancient and Medieval Gallery will 
b o ast ofthe atrium, across from that 
will be adisplay of the sixteenth and 
seventeenth century art.To complete 
the chronological sweep, the second 
level will house the Eighteenth and 
Nineteenth Century Gallery as well 
as the Beardsley Gallery ofTwentieth 
Century Art. 
The special features to be found in 
the Snite Museum are especially 
interesting, and broaden the scope 
ofthe new gallery beyond that of the 
traditonal art museum. The Print and 
Drawing Study room on the second 
level will be used for traveling ex­hibitions,collection display, small seminars, and individualstudy. The . reference library on the lower level 
will hold a collection of prints, 
etchings, drawings and photos, which 
will be exchanged with other uni­
versities -an added source of ar­
tistic wealth. On the same level,an 
auditorium that seats 300 will more 
than suffice for films, classes, and 
lectures, as its acoustics are out­
standing. 
It is not surprising that a project 
with such wideranging vision would 
have equally ambitious goals.The 
Snite Museum of Art is one striving 
for quality in its art collections, and 
its staff of eleven people work 
energetically toward this. The Di­
rector ofthe museum is Dean Porter, 
curator of the ND collection for the 
past eight years. Doug Bradley is the 
curator ofEthnograhics and Stephen 
Spiro is the curator ofthe general and 
European Art collectons. 
A Picasso, which is the museum's "pride and joy",along with other remarkable pieces, assures the Uni­versity a high quality, dynamic col­lection which hopefully will also benefit the surrounding community. Docent Tours, in accordance with the South Beqd Art Center and the museum's education coordinator, Linda H2.lley, are now setting up programs. Local schools may tour the museum, and children as young as the fifth grade will participate in some inquisitive exercises involving the art they observe. 

Dean Porter stresses that art is a 
challenge, and that its real beauty is 
that it can inspire "both sides o(the 
brain",the thinking and the sensual. 
Those involved with the Snite 
Museum of Art are anxious for 
people to "actively experience" the 
gallery, and to offer some feedback 
upon seeing,hearing, and feeling the riches within. 


.....1-J·. 
Snite Art Gallery 
Father Bill Toohey 
upon which ourfinal judgement will be 
based. The trouble with so many 
schools is that they indulge the nesting 
instinct by building very protected 
little communities inside the great 
walls. A truly educated person is one 
who has "matured into vulnerability," 
to useJames Forest's phrase; it is to be 
a person who refuses to erect walls that 
shut out other people. 
Notre Dame's challenge for your 
education is to afford, as an integral 
part ofyour education, the experience 
whereby your eyes will see and your 
ears will hear...what is everywhere 
around us: the cries ofthe poorand the 
oppressed, and to see and hear in such a 
way that you become vulnerable to 
them and their needs. 
Otherwise, an epigram ofBob Dylan 
will become frighteningly real: "The 
only difference between schools and 
old-age homes is that more people die 
in schools.' Wtth this entry, Fr. Toohey begin.r his 9th year ~s an Observer col­umnist. His latest book, LIFE AFTER BIRTH: Spirttuality for ();liege Students, 
has JUSt been published by Seabury Press, New York. 
Cat Damico 
The contrast is striking: walls new 
enough to be (;hristened enclose art 
old enough to be treasured. Recog­
nizing the generosity of Notre Dame 
alumni and benefactors for their loyal 
support of the Snite Museum, Di­
rector Dean Porte-r expresses his 
appreciation: "It couldn't happen 
elsewhere." " 
Cat Damico, a second year English major, is a Features staff writer. Special thanks to Kathy Leaman and Kevin Allison who dzd the research for this article. 

Ihe~O~======~====================~======== 
T0 da~==========w=edn=esd=ay='=Se=pt=em=ber=3,=t9=s=o-=pag=e9 
Campus 

12:15 p.m. microbiology seminar, "the use of exper imental animals for studies on intestinal cancer," galvin aud. 
6:30 p.m. nd sailing club 
meeting, 204 o'shag. 
7:00 
p.m. pre-law society meeting, library aud. 

7:00 
p.m. film: "burn", engineering aud. 


10:30 p.m. mass for the world's hungry, grotto. 
Department ragesover dispute 
WASHINGTON (AP)-A burgeoning dispute over federal rules on bilingual education has brought the honeymoon for the new Department ofEducation to a rapid close. 
Less than four months into its existence, the agency has come under a barrage ofcriticism from major education groups for its attempt to spell out rules on how the nation's schools should teach children with limited or no ability to speak English. 
The rules hducation Secretary Shirley M. Aufstedler proposed Aug. 5 marked her first major into the regulatory field. 
twen before the Federal Reg­ister ink was dry, some education leaders were charging the de­partment was overstepping its bounds and trying to dictate to the schools how to teach. 
"The proposal is an unmiti­gated disaster. It threatens the fabric of American education and the future of our country," charged Albert Shanker, presi­dent of the American Federation of Teachers. 
Leaders of such groups as the National School Boards Asso­ciation, the Council of Chief State School Officers, and the national associations of elemen­tary and secondary school prin­cipals joined Shanker in a letter to Mrs. Aufstedler attacking any federal mandaJe to force schools to teach youngsters in their native language. 
The proposed federal rules stipulate that children who have a "primary language" other than hnglish and score below the 40th percentile on an English test must be taught required subjects in both English and their native language. 
Left open for public comment and a later decision was the question of whether students equally limited jn both English and their native language should be taught in both languages. 
Mrs. Aufstedler said more than 
3.5 million youngsters in America have limited English proficiency. Seventy percent are Hispanic. 
A subsequent analysis by her staff estimated that 1. 3 million would qualify for bilingual ed­ucation at a cost to the public schools of from $176 million to $592 million. 
Molarity 

01-1. .. IIIJFLA.TIN(i
WHAT ARE YDIJR 
P~JCE6 .3Lf5; 

COUR~£5 LIKE 1Hl5 
CoJ,..LEC.TING :t>£BT5 1150 

S£MEST£~? 
AND /1Jc.~BACKS 317 





Peanuts® 
Michael Molinelli 

Charles Schulz 

0 


ARE LfOU ACCUSING
THE GAME ISN'T OVER 

US OF GIVING UP?
't'ET, TEAM, SO LET'S 
NOT GIVE UP. .. 


ACROSS 23 Klndot 1 Formerly, palm once 24 Globe 5 Klndof 27 Rafter
The Daily Crossword 
sugar 29 Highways 
10 Eastern 31 Lads church 33 Certain title 35 Cashews 

14 Product of 37 Formal Cluny or pledge Alencon 38 Tendon 15 Lend-39 Sacred 
. (listen) Image 16 Breads 40 Nymphwho 17 In general loved 19 Church area Narcissus 20 Footnote 41 Trireme 
indicators Items 21 Sac 42 -time 22 Diplomatic (never) 
quality 43 Chopped 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
9/3/80

© 1980 by Chicago Tribune·N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

. 45 Gem 11 Secondary 48 Stitch results 49 Opera star 12 Fonner 50 Kazan first lady 52 Without 13 Cruising 
assistance 18 Colorless 54 Ph.D. 21 Scare word 59 Labyrinth 23 Work group 60 Chance 24 Woodwind 
spectators 25 Bug 61 Burl, the 26 "Cheaper-" 
singer 28 Saki 62 Goose genus 30 Mile or 63 Algerian mill 
seaport 32 Ostentation 64 Retreats 34 Esteemed for thieves 36 Weather 65 Learns by word perusal 38 Turned card 66 Lariat In faro 44 First lady DOWN 46 Church 1 lslandot features 
exile 47 Social 2 Flat fishes celebrity 3 Begone! 51 Zeal 4 Belief 52 Along with 5111will 53 Wash 6 Nikolaievna 54 Unit of 
Rom a nov force 
7 Makecof· 55 Mountain in fee, for Thessaly short 56 Flying 
8 Falls prefix behind 57 Golf hazard 9 Before 58 Anglo·Saxon 
10 Regionot laborer central 60 Legal Chile profession 
WSND~~ 
NEEDS YOUI 

Interviews fot Am, Fm, News, Spotts, Ptoductlon, PR, Englneetlng, ond Sales. 
No expetlence tequltedl 
TONIGHT 6-11 
3610'Shag 


r 
The Observer Wednesday, September 3, 1980 -page 10 
, r 
r 
t 
,r r 
r 
r r 
... Items 
(continued from page 12) 

from AlA W Divsion III to Division II this season. 
Rich Hunter's soccer squad, which returns 15 letter­
winners from last year's team, opens its fall schedule at the 
University ofCincinnati. The Irish are hoping to avenge last 
year's 1-0 defeat at the hands ofthe Bearcats in the '79 season 
debut. 

Finally, the JV football team opens its three-game mini­
schedule on Sunday afternoon in West Lafayette against the 
junior Boilermakers. TheJV'ers were scheduled to open last 
Saturday against Triton but a rash of minor injuries forced 
cancellation of that initial test. 
Two other games remain on theJV slate following Purdue: a pair of contests against Michigan State, one on September 28 at Notre Dame and the other October 5 in bast Lansing. 
STUDENTS 
interested in beingon the 
Traffic Appeals Board 
please submit your name to the student government secretary by Friday, Sept. 5. 
I 

join the 
DebGte Council 
·<:ompete In debate and Individual speech events tta vel to othet colleges 
Pub 


Thutsday, Septembet 4th WASHINGTON HALL AUD 6:15pm 
ot call Btothet John Dotan at 8940 
NOTRE DAME 
vs. MICHIGAN ·2tickets Sl.OOonly 
ust predict the score of Notre Dam~ vs. Purdue 
Enter as many times as you wish 
at either dining hall or with 
BILL KENEALL Y 
BOB McNAMARA KEVIN UNGER or 
TIM: VAN KIRK 904 Grace Hall DEADLINE! Noon, Sept. 6 
Proceeds go to Volunteer Service Program of Notre Dame and St. Mary's and St. Edward's
uan; TicketssuppliedbyND.S.U. 
My tick~t application?? 
-Uh. ·.. 
Before you ever again question the creative fiber of the Notre Dame student body, you should hear some ofthe "Gee, I'm sorry but-" excuses given for not sending in a student football ticket application last summer. Granted, some of them were pretty standard. For instance: 
brought it?" · 
-or 

"My dad thought it was junk mail so he threw it away." 
But some ofthem were real classics, like the 23­year old law student who apologetically explained that his "mom and dad forgot to send it in." Here are a few more of my favorites. 
"My dog ate the application." 
"Well, you see, it came at the same time as my record club 'selection ofthe month' and I couldn't afford both so I bought the record because I have to purchase eight more selections over the next three years or they'll throw me in jail." 
"I was a delegate to the Democratic National· Convention so I was in New York when it came." 
"My little sister ate the application." 
"When the application came, I hid it from my parents because I want them to think that all I do here is study. Then I couldn't remember where I hid it." 
"I looked at the home schedule and thought it was junk mail so I threw it away." 

"My little sister ate the applicaton and my dog ate my little sister." 
"It came at the same time as my tuition bill and I didn't think I should ask for any more money at the time." 
"I was in the hospital this summer and, when I looked at the return address on the envelope, I thought it was just a get well card from student accounts." 
"Oh, you mean I was supposed to send something back?" 
"I was a missionary in Zambia this summer and I did send it in. But the mail takes six months to get here so why don't you guys just give me my ticket now and you should get my check sometime after the first of the year." 
"I didn't have a stamp." "Well, I would have sent ft in but I had to go register for the draft that day." "Whatta ya mean we gotta pay for football tickets??!!" 

...KOegel 
(continued from page 12) 

Some may argue justifiably that the 6-foot-4, 194-pound senior has plenty of reason to be disenchanted with Notre Dame. He came in as one of the most highly touted recruits in the school's recent history, with one prep magazine dubbing him "the most "talented football player entering college this fall (1977)." 
The Cincinatti Moeller prod­uct led his squad to consecutive state titles in '75 and '76, and arrived in South Bend ready to step in and assume command of the Irish charges. 
No one was to forsee, how­ever, the career comebacks of Joe Montana and Rusty Lisch, comebacks that have thrown Tim Koegel's gridiron career into relative obscurity. 
But no matter how long and hard you search, you won't find this signal caller offering any complaints, or feeling any bit­terness for his three years as a backup. 
"There's always a lot of com­petition for the quarterback position but that's something I expected when I came to Notre Dame. Everyone wants to play, but there are always going to be some who can't. My attitude this year is to do whatever I can for the team and enjoy myself." 
It's this exceptional attitude that has earned Koegel the respect of coaches, players and fans alike-one that represents a 
refreshing  change  from  the  
comments  most  frequently  
heard from athletes.  

Quarterback coach Ron Toman echoes these sentiments in describing Koegel. "Tim's an excellent young man to work with," says Toman. "He's a good student of the game with a good head for offense. He's also a real perfectioni~t. He wants to play to the very best of his ability. Pressure doesn't bother him-he doesn't discourage easily unless he feels he's· done something wrong." 
Koegel's heralded rifling abil­ities are not apt to discourage him. He broke every high school passing record that existed at Moeller, impressed everyone as an Irish rookie when he became the first freshman quarterback since 1951 to thow a touchdown pass (a 31-yard strike against Georgia Tech) and has compiled the highest total passing yardage 
(293) of the three senior cand­idates. 
What's most likely to dis­courage the Notre Dame field general is his inability to elude the rush. Koegel himself readily admits that quickness is not his forte, although with the kind of line he stood behind at Moeller, he was never really forced to be adept at scrambling. Always the perfectionist, the Planner resi­dent is working hard to correct the one problem that has pre­vented him from nailing down the starting slot. 
"I just try to work on mas­tering my skills and on knowing and avoiding the different de­fenses," he says. "I know I'm not as quick as some ofthe others but I constantly try to work on that." 
Tim spent the entire summer in South Bend, taking classes and working out daily with some of his teamates. And while one would assume that the quarter­back race was foremost on his mind, Koegel chose to downplay the sweepstakes as much as possible. "You've got to remain somewhat objective and main­tain a kind of calm or it could really get to you," he noted. 
Koegel bo~sts the most play­ing experience of the seniors, seeing action in all11 games last season (often as kicker Chuck Male's holder) and starting a­gainst Purdue for an injured Rusty ~isch. But he does not allow himself to think for one minute that those facts should. automatically award him the starting position on Saturday, and expresses anything but re­sentment for the situation. 
"Whoever starts for us, I'll do whatever I can to help him out. There's no bitter rivalry between any ofthe quarterbacks. We'll all stand behind whoever it is, and if l can be ofany help to any ofthe quarterback's, I v:ill be." 
That's the kind ofcontribution you won't find in any record books, but one that's of im­measurable value to a team just the same. 
"He's very unselfish that way," remarked Toman. "He's been helping the younger quarter­backs since early this season ­he's just a good leader on the field." 
This season is Koegel's last chance to create some football legends of his own, yet he feels no more pressure this season than in previos ones and is determined to enjoy his final gridiron campaign. 
"I enjoy football now more than I. did as a freshman. When you first come in everyone's older than you and you're not real comfortable with the sys­tem. Now I feel familiar with the offenses and defenses and I know more about our game now than ever before." 
The American Studies major plans to enter law school next fall, possibly at Notre Dame, putting to rest any thoughts that he may have been disappointed with his life under the dome. 
"Notre Dame has lived up to my expectations. I'm happy here. I like it here, and the people I've met, the experiences I've had, everything about Notre Dame is bound to help me later in life. I couldn't have asked for a better education." 
Tim Koegel is a bigger success at Notre Dame that most people realize, and is quickly demon­strating that Irish quarterbacks cannot be judged by awards, statistics, and championships a­lone. 
McEnroe, Connors 
advance in Open 

J'\;bW YORK (AP)-Defen­ding champion John Mcbnroe beat Pascal Portes of France 6-2, 6-4, 6-2 yesterday to advance to the quarterfinals of the endur­ance test known as the U.S. Open tennis championships. 
"Considering how hot it was, I played quite a few solid games," saidMcbnroe. "Itwas something like 120 degrees out there and you definitely feel it. You get careless sometimes because of the heat, but I didn't let that happen too much today. 
In the featured night match, Jimmy Connors ousted South Africa's Bernie Mitton 7-6,6-4,6­4. 
McEm;oe, who is seeded sec­ond, was never in serious trouble in his match against the 21-year­old Portes. 
----------~----~ ----~­
The Observer Wednesday,September 3, 1980-page,ll' 
Baseball roundup

Sports Briefs _ ____, 
The Bird proves them wrong
Sports meetings: 
Comprledfrom the Associated Press Montreal wa1> at San Diego and 
Red Sox won their ninth 
Lacrosse 

The Notre Dame lacrosse team will hold a mandatory meeting · for all those who are interested in playing next spring. The meeting is scheduled for this afternoon at 4:30 in the ACC auditorium. All returning players, as well as any new players interested in taking part in the team's first varsity season, must attend. For more information, contact Rich O'Leary at 4563. 
Sailing 
Detroit right bander Mark "The Bird" Fidrych says those who were writing his obituary were a bit premature. 
"People were writing that I was finished, but I don't read the papers that much," Fidrych said after turning in a seven hit complete game to defeat the Chicago White Sox 11-2 in the opener of a twinight double­

Philadelphia was at San Fran­cisco. 
Twins 5, Cleveland 3 
Rick Sofield drove in two runs with a sixth inning double, and Darrell Jackson, 8-8, and Doug Corbett combined on a six-hitter as the Twins rallied from a ~-3 tie. Wayne Garland, 6-7, took the loss. 
straight game. Steve Renko, 9 5, picked up the win. 
Cardinals 12, Reds 4 
Keith Hernandez did it all smashing three hits, driving in three runs and scoring four times, to help Bob Forsch pick up his 11th win of the year. Ted Simmons collected two hits and knocked in four runs also for 


-. 
Off the field... 

Koegel n1akes ND work for him 
This is a five-part series analyzinfi each of Notre Dame's ft_ve leading quarter­backs. The order in which these features appear in no way reflects the position each occupies on the Irish depth chart. 
by Kelly Sullivan Women's Sports Edrtor 

Such Irish quarterback legends as Horning, Huarte, Hanratty, Clements and Montana have stablished a rigorous standard of measurement for judging the quality of their successors. Making an AllAmerican squad, setting numorous school rec­ords, winning college bowl games and appearing on mag­azine covers are common meas­uring sticks when evaluating a quarterback's performance. 
Senior Tim Koegel may be defining a new standard of quarterback measurement. Of course, Koegel has received his share ofawards, has rewritten his share of records, has won his share of championships and has been featured in a number of sports publications. 
But not at Notre Dame. 

By Irish standards Tim Koegel's career could be judged as unsuccessful. Yet this partic­ular young man is proving that judgement incorrect by estab­
. lishing a measuring stich of his own -one that extends beyond the boundaries of the football field, a criteria that would earn him the Reisman if the votes were cast for attitude. 
(continued on page 10} 
Wednesday,September 3,1980 -page 12
SRorts 

Where were you? 
Remember back to August 15 

Where were you when the lights went out? 
Where were you August 15 around 9:30p.m (bOT) when the Notre Dame Stadium's, marquee, er, scoreboard-starring Dan Devine 
and  the  Fighting  Irish-flickered  and  then  
dimmed  in  anticipation  of  its  finale  as  a  
collegiate football troupe?  
In your favorite Friday night place?  

Or perhaps at home watching the Steelers do the expected, crushing their opponents? 
Or, heaven forbid, both? 

Had the blackout occurred last December, when there were bad reviews, rumors of the show's close by its backers (forced retirement) and thoughts ofa new director (or savior) in the air, would we have been surprised at the announcement made by the 55-year-old Devine on the ABC network? 
It's doubtful. 

But, over halfa year later, nearly everyone was shocked... not only at the announcement, but also at its. timing. 
The 1980 Irish football team assembled just prior to the announcement with no foresha­dowing of the resignation.. 
"It caught all ofus completely by surpr!k No one on the team hadany clue about rtat all When itcame wejust decided toput itaside and let everyone else worry about it. .We're just going to play the season, that's our goal"­Tom Gibbons 
"We had a team meeting after the press conference and we all decided wejust had to let itpass. We have this one year left with Coach Devine and the staff and it's gonna be a great year. Atthe time it happened, everyone thought it was kind ofa shock because ofthe timingfactor. That was the only shock, that we found out now instead of watting unttl maybe the last gam_e of the season. "­Steve Cichy 
The Irish head into their final season with Dan Devine in the director's chair while the master
. 
Beth Huffman 

Casting Director, C.S.C., studies the flood of applications and ponders auditions... but at least one company member feels the transition from old to new is not that big an issue. 
"You have to realize that Coach Devine announcing his resignation at a place like this is unusual At most universities it's common practice, they may go through coaching staffs every two or threeyears. But just because it happenedat Notre Dame, I think everyone has kindof overplayedit. The players at Notre Dame, at least I can speakfor myself, don't come here toplay for a headcoach. When they come to Notre Dame, they come to playfor Notre Dame. The coach is really secondary, and that's not toput Coach Devine down, but any coach, whoever it was. Most people come to play for Notre Dame, notfor any particular coach. I don't think that's rea//v true at many other institutions. You see how ~t other universities, they have a couple oflosing seasons in a row and they get rid of the coach. But winning is such a tradition at Notre Dame, that it overshadows the coach whoever it may be. "-Scott Zettek 
Only a choice few know all Devine's secrets behind the resignation but one can gather from talking to the coach thathis love for Notre Dame and his team is sincere, not play acted. A closing line from the mentor who will enter his· sixth season as the Irish coach on Saturday reveals how he will feel when the lights go out on that marquee for good. 
· ''I'm not walking away, my heart will always be with thts team. "-Dan Devine 
But the show must go on. 

I
rish / 
byBilltems Marquard 
POLL CALL-Heading into this first weekend of the 
NCAA football season, most ofthe pre-season picksters, with 
one major exception, have tabbed the Irish in the top of the 
Second Ten. 
The nation's AP writers have chosen the Irish footballers 
11th in the country, while the UPI voting coaches rank the 
Irish 12th. Sport magazine tabs the Irish eighth among the big 
schools, while the highly-reputable Playboy poll picks Notre 
Dame as 11th (and the Southwesrern Conference cheer­
leaders tops). 
Street and Smith's college preview lists Devine's charges 
15th, while Sports Illustrated neglected to include the Irish in 
its Top Twenty. 
The Boilermakers are rated slightly ahead of the Irish in 
most polls, tapped 9th by the AP, lOth by UPI and 11th in 
Sports Illustrated. 
HbAD START-Saturday's season opener against 
Purdue will be the earliest opener for either school in its 
history. The Irish sport a 78-8-5 mark in season debuts (5 7-7­
3 at home), although they have lost their last two in Notre 
Dame Stadium (31-10 to Pittsburgh in 1976 and 3-0 to 
Missouri in 1978). 
Another omen for the gambler is the fact that Purdue has 
won more games in Notre Dame Stadium than any other 
team. The Boilers boast a 9-11 slate here since the Stadium 
was erected, although their last victory came in 1974 when 
Alex Agase's crew dumped Ara Parseghian's last Irish squad 
31-20. 
Nevertheless, the Irish hold a 31-18-2 edge in the all-time 
series with Purdue, which started in 1896 and has been 
contested annually since 1946. In fact, Notre Dame has won 
four of the last five battles and eight of the last ten games. 
WON'T YOU COME HOME SHILLELAGH-Since 
1957, the winner of the annual showdown between Purdue 
and Notre Dame takes home the Shillelagh. Donated byJoe 
McLaughlin, a merchant seaman and Irish fan who brought it 
here from Ireland, the travelling trophy is currently dotted 
with 23 gold footballs, heralding the victors of each 
Irish/Boiler clash since the award's inception. Notre'"Dame 
holds a one-football edge on the trophy. 
BOUNCING THE BIG TEN-Notre Dame enjoys an 
impressive 156-70-13 mark against Big Ten foes in its history. 
Dan Devine, once an assistant at Michigan State, owns a 
personal 21-4-1 record against that league, 11-3 under the 
"shadow" of the Dome. 
BROKAW'S BACK-Former Irish hardcourt standout 
Gary Brokaw has joined Digger Phelps' staff as a part-time 
assistant coach. The 197 3-74 All-American left Notre Dame 
before his senior year for the financial security of the NBA, 
having been tabbed by the Milwaukee Bucks in the first 
round of the 197 4 draft. 
Brokaw spent two years in Beer-town before being traded 
to Cheer-town (Cleveland, couldn't you guess?), averaging 
8.5 points in his four-year pro stint. 
"We're excited about having Gary back at Notre Dame," 
remarked Phelps. "His experience in the NBA will be an asset 
in many ways both on and off the court." 
While here, Brokaw will also work as an advisor and counselor in the Office of Minority Student Affairs. 
A LOT OF CLASS-The fact that Brokaw recently completed his requirements for a bachelor's degree from Notre Dame raised Phelps' off-the-floor coaching record to 100%. Every player that the basketball mentor has coached at Notre Dame has now graduated. 
The Notre Dame Athletic Department, its individual coaches and Academic Advisor Mike DeCicco should be congratulated for the impressive classroom record and graduation rate of Notre Dame student-athletes. 
In light of pending NCAA investigations for academic violations at Arizona State, USC and other member in­stitutions, Devine told a gathering of Notre Dame alumni this summer that, "I'm humiliakd and emarrassed as a football coach because of the things that are going on. 
"We've got some big problems in the 1980s. There may not be college football in the 1980s. They are making a farce ofwhat a university should stand for. The winning at any cost attitude has fostered drugs and phony transcripts. 
"It comes down to coaching ethics. The university must hire a coach with ethics and a president with ethics. "It's up to Notre Dame to lead the way1 to win the right way and show people it can be done." 
They already have. BALLS 0' FUN-Four other Notre Dame varsity teams open action this weekend. The women's tennis and field hockey teams inaugurate the new Irish athletic season on Saturday morning. Sharon Petro's court contingent hosts Indiana-Purdue University at Fort Wayne (that's IUPU-FW for you abbreviation addicts) at 8 a.m. on the Courtney Tennis Center courts. Rookie coachJan Galen will send her field hockey charges to Cartier Field at 11 a.m. for their season opener against Albion College. Both women's squads are making the move 
(continued on page 10} 









