
• • . NDgays -page 5 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 

hy Anne jane IJregalla and Tom jackman 
"Keep a Suint Mary's Man in Congress", was the campaign slogan suggested yesterday by CongressmanJohn Brademas as part of Political Week at Saint Mary's. 
Brademas, who is running for re-election in this district, is a 53-year-old, eleven-term Democrat now serving as House Majority Whip. He is a Harvard graduate and Rhodes Scholar who, after serving in WWII, came to Saint Mary's and became chairman of the Government Department. 
Sirtce leaving Saint Mary's, Brademas has held several positions in politics, such as executive assistant to Adlai Stevenson II, before serving 22 years as an Indiana Congressman. He maintains, however, that he is "back home 
Political Week continues 
Brademas speaks at SMC 
Iran , Iraq blast respective oil facilities 
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP)-In an alarming new turn in their war, Iran and Iraq have begun sending jet bombers against each other's oil installations, the most sensitive areas of their economies. The extent of da­mage cannot be determined precisely, but Iraq has strengthened the defenses a­round some of its oilfields. 
Iraq has reinforced anti-air­craft defenses around the northern oilfields in Kirkuk and the southern storage and shipping installations on the disputed Shatt al-Arab border waterway, informants said Monday. 
They said Iraq's oil output was down to one million barrels a day as a result of damage caused by raiding Iranian jets. 
Until the war broke out, Iraq was the world's second largest exporter ofcrude oil after Saudi Arabia. Iraq's production had been 3.6 million barrels a day, with 3.2 million exported through the Persian Gulf and 300,000 through pipelines a­cross Turkey and Syria to Mediterranean terminals. 
Before the war, Iran's daily average production of crude oll stood at 1.5 milli~n barrels, of which some 500,000 barrels were exported through the gulf waters. Now, Iran produces just enough oil to meet its own 
needs, the same source said. · Oil officials were unavailable for comment and foreign re­porters were not allowed to travel to the hard-pressed oil regions at Kirkuk and Mosul. 
The extent of damage to the oil installations, although be­lieved to be extensive, could not be determined. Diplomatic sources said the overall picture of the damage will become known only when foreign con­tractors are called in to make 
repairs.  
Iraq's  Khor  al-Amoya  and  
Mina al-Bkr  oil shipping  ter­ 
minals  were  reported  not  

operating, mainly because captains of oil tankers were 
Charged with interest 
Parties ' energy policie~ examined 

Editor'.r Note: In the comir;g weeks before the Nov. 4 electior;, The Observer wtilexamine the key i.rsues of the fall presidential ca,;,­jJaigfl, where the candtdates and their platform.r stand on the issues, alorl!( U1tth commer;tary and analysis from campus expert.r. Today's topic: m::rgy. 
"Energy is the lifeblood of our economy. Without ade­quatt: t:nergy supplies... the jobs of American men and women, the security of tht:ir lives, and their ability to provide for their familit:s will be threatened and their standard of living will be lowered.'' It cannot bt: said that tht: Republican platform which supports nominee Ronald Reagan undert:stimatt:s the im­portance ofent:rgy as an issue in the 1980 campaign. 
The Democratic party also includes a lengthy section on the nation's energy problems in its platform, stating that the "highest legislative priority has 

ISSUES'80
*****
been in the development of our nation's first comprehensive energy policy." However, be­yond that, the three major presidential candidates differ significantly in their treatment of this issue, which has deep roots in the areas of foreign policy, environmentalism, and government intervention and regulation. 
The Democratic platform outlines a policy which differs little from the one President 
Jimmy Carter has put into practice during his first term. It calls, in large part, for conser­vation, which it claims will "preserve our economy and create jobs for Americans." The Democrats intend to make conservation their highest priority, since it is "the cheapest form of energy production." 
The platform also reiterates Carter's announced intentions to "develop synthetic and al­ternative energy resources," and adds, "we regard coal as the nation's greatest resource." 

In the Rt:publican platform, conservation is not nearly so intt:gral a part of the party's energy solutions. The platform says, "tht: proven America;;­values of individual enterprise can solve our energy prob­
[continued on page 3] 

at Saint Mary's" where he spent 
a "most delightful period of his 
life." 

On the issues, Brademas first 
spoke of his "intense interest in 
education," as exemplified by 
his active participation on the 
House Education and Labor 
Committee, where he says he 
contributed to the writing oLd! 
educational legislation. 

Brademas diagnosed a change 
in American political attitudes 
from the time he began in 
Congress, under Eisenhower, 
through Kennedy and 
Johnson's "Great Society," 

Vietnam, and Watergate, which he feels culminated in the at­titude of apathy and unhap­piness found in the country today. He attributes this un­happiness to the realization that the U.S. is no longer the ..§_ingle most powerful country in 
the world. 

Economically, Brademas 
afraid to travel in the gulf to reach them. There have been conflicting reports about damage inflicted by Iranian warplanes on the two terminals. 
No official comment was available on the status of these 
1 terminals, and industry sources said any damage to the ship berths could seriously hamper Iraq's oil shipping for an un­determined period. 
states, "my commitment, in 
terms of my response, goes ·beyond weathering the current rect:ssion, to rt:build the l'· conomy of Northern Indiana." He pointed out his accom plishments, termed "building blocks," to help this part of th<· country become competitivt' once again in both domestic and international "markets. 
The first of these building 
blocks is energy. Brademas 
stated, "Indiana has a contri­
bution to make", and the plans 
for the gasohol plant which 
were submitted by Bradt:mas 
togt:ther with Sen. Birch Bayh, 
and later passed by both houses, 
"represent an awareness on our 
part that we have to act... the 
plant will also provide jobs and 
new markt:ts for farmers." 

Other building blocks in­clude increased dependence on new technology, closer links between universities and in­dustry, and the rebuilding of transportation networks, par­ticularly South Bend Airport and the South Shore Railroad. 
In response to a question from the audience regarding his voting record on abortion, Brademas made his stand clear. He voted to prohibit federal funds for abortion, with the only exceptions being when the life of the mother is in danger, or in cases of rape or incest. However, in an intervit:w af­terwards, when it was pointed out to Brademas that he voted against the Hyde Amendment 
[continued on page 3] 



Doctors say Fr. Toohey suffers from encephalitis 
By Mary Fran Callahan Senior Staff Reporter 
Doctors have discovered that Fr. William Toohey, the director of Campus Ministry, is suffering from "encephalitis caused by the herpes simplex virus," according to Fr. Austin Fleming of Campus Ministry. 
Toohey, who is hospitalized at St. Joseph's, has now been listed in "serious" condition, according to a spokesman there. Last week, the priest was classified as "fair" and then "guarded." 
In a statement released yesterday to The Observer, Fleming said Toohey's condition changed yesterday morning when "he showed signs of intracranial pressure on the brain." 
Doctors operated on the priest yesterday to relieve the pressure associated with the virus. Fleming said physicians are treating the encephalitis with drugs. 
"He will continue to be treated. He will be watched·¥ery closely for the next several days. The doctors are waiti~r a response to the medication and his recovt:ry to the suiiery," Fleming stated. 
After returning from a hospital visit yesterday, Fleming commented, "He is very critical." 
Members of the Campus Ministry staffhave requested that persons concerned about Toohey's condition not call the hospital for updates. St. Joseph's switchboard is fast be­coming besieged with requests for information on the priest, and consequently, lines are tied up. 
Anyone desiring information ·should contact Campus Ministry at either 65 36 or 4392. As Toohey is now in an intensive care unit, visitors are forbidden; however, cards may be sent to the priest in care of St. Joseph's Hospital. 
-----"~"
-" 
Tuesday, October 7, 1980 -page 2

News Brie/§

====~========*=================================~ 
by The Observer and The AIIociated Prm 
Can the public's aopetite fo: 
information about tile Watergate scandtl ever be satisfied! The National Archives reported the answer is "yes." The archives announced that because of diminished demand, it has cut back the amount of time the Watergate tapes will be available for public listening. The tapes will be available to the public every morning, but not in the afternoon, said James Hastings, deputy director of the Nixon Presidential Materials Project. More than 9,500 people have listened to parts of the tapes since they were opened to the public May 2H. The 31 tapes available were played during the two trials of former President Nixon's associates and are part of 6,000 hours of conversations secretly recorded on Nixon's in­structions. Among them is the "smoking gun" tape that prompted Nixon to resign. It disclosed that Nixon was told four days after the Watergate break-in ofan effort to have the CIA prevent the FBI's investigating too closely.-AP 
Fascist revival? Bombings blamed on ultra­
rightists in Italy, West Germany and France have taken 101 lives and kindled fears of a fascist outbreak in Western Europe. Even so, officials believe that, 35 years after the defeat ofAdolfHitler's Nazis and Benito Mussolini's fascists, there is no significant threat to democracy from extremist organizations. None of the rightist groups in a half-dozen European countries has any political power, sizeable popular -;upport or, outside Italy, publicly elected representatives. {owever, 84 people were killed in a Bologna railroad station >last in August, 13 died in an explosion at Munich's , >ktoberfest Sept. 26 and four died last Friday in a bomb blast 
>utside a Paris synagogue. Authorities have blamed all three .tttasks on ultra-rightists. Qffic1als say there are links among the most active extremist gr}>ups, and in some countries, particularly France and Spain, they suspect rightists can be found in law enforcement agencies. -AP 
Ronald Reaga~ accused the _cart~r 
administration yesterday of trymg to boost the prestdent s political standing a month before the electionby"jimmying" last week's wholesale price report to show that inflation is easing. "They have taken to making highly questionable uses of official governmental statistics to sugarcoat the bitter pill that has regularly come from Washington in the line of economic news," the Republican presidential candidate said. He made his charge at a rally in a crowded shopping center of this suburb of Camden as he set out on a two-week, cross­country trip. He planned to campaign in New Haven, Conn., later in the day before flying to Philadelphia, only miles from here, for the night. The wholesale price report released last Friday showed a decline of 0.2 percent, attributed solely to the government's inclusion for the first time of end-of-the­year price discounts for automobiles in its calculations. -AP 
Professor]ames Dinnan, jailed 
for three months beoouse he wouldn't reveal his vote in a faculty promotion case, returned to work and was welcomed by a banner stretched across the doors of his department by his University of Georgia colleagues. Dinnan, who was sentenced for contempt of court, arrived on campus shortly before 9 a.m. to resume work as a reading and adult education specialist. The smiling, 50-year-old Dinnan was greeted by a banner that read: "The Reading Department Welcomes Dr. Dinnan Back Home." Doors inside were adorned with red <tnd black ribbons, the school colors. Dinnan wore the suit he was issued when he left the prison at Eglin Air Force Base in Florida, where he dropped 45 pounds while working as a dishwasher and toilet scrubber. He weighed 212 three months ago. "Maybe that's my reward," Dinnan said of his weight loss. He said the prison food was "pretty good ... but since it was 130 degrees in the washroom, it was easy to lose weight." Dinnan was released from prison last week.-AP 
Patrol boats and planes searched 
waters offnorthernJapan for two fishmg vessels lost in heavy -eas that sank two other boats and cost at least three lives. ·;wenty-seven men were missing in storms off the ·.orthernmost mainJapanese island ofHokkaido. The seven­"On fishing boat Koshin Maru No.8 with a crew ofnine sank nn Sunday. Two men died, six were rescued and one was ·nissing, a Maritime SafetyAgency spokesman said. The one­;on Honshu Maru sank off Embetsu, western Hokkaido the ".ll~1e day. One crewman was killed and another was missing, tht spokeman said. Maritime Agency patrol boats and planl:!s -l'<l!Ched waters 1,200 miles east of Cape Erimu for two >essds with which they lost radio contact on Sunday. 
Fair nie:hts and sunnv davs 
through Wednesday. High today in the upper 6~s to low 1os. Low tonight in the mid to upper 40s. High Wednesday in the low to mid 70s. 
Inside Tuesday 


MSU: A good weekend 
It really felt good to get away for the weekend. Nothing against Notre Dame. Nothing against South Bend. This weekend's trip to East Lansing, Mich., was one of those "just what the doctor ordered" things. 
The semester had finally caught up with most everyone, and it seemed as thpugh everyone needed a briefrespite. And what better way to do so than to hit Michigan State when the Irish happened to be in town for a football game? 
There was nothing there at which to marvel ­
nothing about which to write home. It served as just a fresh, relaxing, healthy remedy for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
There was "Dooley's," of course, that All­American bar where everybody-yes, every­body-has nothing but a good time. The size of "Dooley's" alone made the bar somewhat foreign to those who made the journey from South Bend. And, unlike one of the more favorite weekend festivities at Notre Dame, there didn't seem to be anybody attending "Dooley's" just for the sake ofgetting"loaded." 
Oh, there was drinking. But it wasn't foremost on everybody's list of priorities. It may sound absurd, but it's true. The place was full of students-more f.rom Notre Dame and Saint Mary's than from MSU-that were just looking to have a good time. 
There was a live band. There was dancing-" 
lots of dancing. There was singing. There was cheering. There were cheerleaders, too-from both schools, complete with uniforms. There were green and gold, and there wer~ green and white. And it really mattered to no one where the next person was from. Everyone was relaxed and was having the best of times, something Notre Dame and St. Mary's students are not all that accustomed to. 
And there was a "Denny's Lansing." Thank goodness. What is a night out on the town without a "grand slam" for a nightcap? 
During Saturday's wee morning hours, a group of Michigan State lettermen were visible at the foot of "Sparty," the MSU statue mascot located near the north edge of campus. They were protecting Sparty from any possible attackers. (Apparently one week earlier a group of students from Western Michigan painted the statue brown and gold before Western and State played.) 
The students-about a dozen of them­
were enjoying themselves. They were pulling an all-nighter in 30-degree weather. They had started a small fire to keep warm. And they were guarding Sparty. It may have been unusual, but it was refreshing. It was different. It was a pleasant sight. 
And then there were the two domers, who, at 
5:00 Saturday morning, were looking for a place to crash. After being dropped off by someone 

Paul 
Mullaney 
Editor-in -chief 

(who had probably picked them up hitch­hiking), they didn't know their whereabouts and were killing time (while freezing to death) just talking to the MSU lettermen. 
That's when a guy named Piech stopped by in his van, picked up his fellow domers (not knowing them), and pulled into a grass lot near Spartan Stadium. That's where they slept for the night. It was just so different. 
That same field was where we tailgated before kickoff. There werepeople tailgating all around us. We even had a keg, and nobody even bothered to take it away from us. It was all so • different. 
Then there was the game. A good game, at that. And there was that recurring chant from the Notre Dame students in attendance: 
Ifyou can't go to college, go to State 
I really didn't appreciate how relaxing the weekend was until Sunday afternoon-back at home. Niu Kian Teck, a freshman student from Malaysia, stopped in to say hello. . 
"The weekend was really boring here," he said. "The only thing there was to do was watch the game on TV. We have more things to do on weeknights in Malaysia." 
I knew I was home. 

Observer Notes 
Have you witnessed a crime which should be reported? Do you have newsworthy infor­mation which might turn into an ir,nportant 
' article? Is there something we shouid be covering? If so, call The Observer news de­partment and let us know. We welcome any and all contributions from our readers-call 283-7471, 8661, or 1715, 24 hours a day, Sunday through Thursday. All sources are guaranteed confidentiality. 
The Observer is always looking for new reporters-experience is not necessary. Ifyou like to write, and are willing to contribute a couple of hours a week, our news department wants you. Ifinterested, come up to our offices (3rd floor LaFortune) anytime between 12 and 1 p.m. during the week, and talk to one of our news editors. They'll be glad to get you started. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
f-The_Ohs.erY-er_ 
Desig11 Editor ................. . Ryan 'another one bites the 


SIDEWALK BOOK 
moose' Ver Berkmoes Desig11 Assii!tiiJts .............. . Jeane 'munster' LaBoe 


SALE
Eileen Murphy esq. Latout Staff .......".. Bullwinkle Dt(VINight Terhs. Bruce Oakly . 
. Bill FitzGerald
News Edttor .................. . 

Wed. Oct. 8 & Thurs. Oct. 9 
Pam 'where the hell is' Degnan (.'opy Editor . .................. . Carol 'Paul's sis' Mullaney 

9 a.m. til. 4 p.m. 
Feat11res Layout .... Molly Wolfe Typists . .. Molly 'fingers' Kellehe Systems Tech ...... Tim Debelius ND Day Editor ............... . 

Paperbacks 
Patsy · 'oh Tom' Schuster AdDesig11 ... In the Twilight zone Photol!rabher. . . . Greg Maurer 

Hardbound 
G11est Appeara11ces ............. · Steve 'wheres the river' Swank 

DRASTICALLY REDUCED!! 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation 

CASH ONLY
periods. The Observer is8ubllshed by the students of Notre ame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The 


HAMMES
Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 


NOTRE DAME 
46556. The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 


BOOKSTORE I
rights are reserved. 


~~~~~~~~~--··········· 




The Observer 

Professor Carl Hemple [photo by Greg Maurer] 


Noted philosopher begins lecture series 
Professor Carl Hemple, noted philosopher of science, 
began his three-part lecture series last night by elucidating 
upon the differences between the approach of logical 
empiricism and pragmatism towards the formation of 
scientific theory. 
Hemple, noted for his stand on logical empiricism, stated 
that the analytic approach assumes that scientific statements 
are ultimately derived from a formal basis of objective 
statements. The logical empiricist assumes that there exists a 
certain set of rules that serve as a foundation for the 
formation of scientific theory. 
The lecture continued as Hemple stated the stand of the pragmatist, which is to reject the notion that any sort of foundation or formal criteria can be established. "The basis of empirical science is not irrevocable and is subject to questioning," said Hemple speaking of the pragmatist approach. 
To explain the pragmatist line ofthought, Hempie uses the example of the objective statement "There is a glass of water." Hempie explained that although the statement is objective it gives rise to many questions such as "What are the properties of the glass and the water?" In short any scientific statement presupposes a large number ofscientific hypotheses. 
The notion of a firm foundation for scientific rationality, therefore, must go in light of the pragmatist's argument. Hempie states that ifwe allow for t\'le factthat statements are questionable and some objective statements can be accepted on the basis of universal consensus, then these statements form the foundation of the empiricist. 
Hemple concluded the lecture at that point. He will continue the series Wednesday night with the evolution of the problem of induction. 
Hemple was born near Berlin in 1905. He worked with a group of philosophers known as "The Vienna Circle" as a student. He came to the United States in the 1930s and taught at Princeton and Yale. He currently is a professor at the University of Pittsburgh. 

[continued from page 1) 
!ems." Decontrol ofoil and gas, in other words, is a key plank in the Republican energy plat­form. Included in this is a strong support for the repeal of the windfall profits tax, which the Democrats boast as a major accomplishment. "The decon­trol of prices on all oil products and an end to government authority to allocate petroleum ·supplies" are two of the major goals of a Republican Reagan 
administration. 
The Republicans do not ig­
nore conservation, boosting 
domestic resourcefulness while 
adding they are "committed to 
alternative... energy supplies, 
stimulating new energy tech­
nology....and restoring maxi­
mum possible choice and free­
dom in the marketplace for 
consumers and producers a­
like." 
Prof. Claude Renshaw, 
chairman of the Business/ 
Economics Department at 
Saint Mary's, believes "gover­
nment overregulates alterna­
tive energy sources and this is 
bad because it discourages 
companies willing to assume 
financial risks in development 
of these sources." 
The GOP also supports the 
lifting ofthe federal speed limit, 
and believes "coal, our most 
abundant energy resource, can 
bridge the gap between our 
other present energy sources 
and the renewable energy 
sources of the future." Neither 
the Democrats or Republicans 
explain how coal can be used as 
such without suffering the side 
effects the increased use ofcoal 
inevitably brings. 
The platform of John Anderson calls conservation "the highest priority" of his national energy policy. Toward this end, he calls for an im­mediate, 50-cent-a-gallon federal excise tax on gasoline, which would cut consumption drastically. Anderson also fa­vors the Republican call for decontrol of oil and gas prices, but he supports the Democratic pledges for retention of the 55 mph speed limit, the windfall 
• • •Bradernas 
[continued from page 1) before." creasing population of South 
Brademas, who earlier re­Bend by saying that it is a in 1977, an amendment which futed a Hiler poll showing the problem common to cities a­would prohibit federal funding challenger ahead, also would round the country, particularly of abortions, he qualified that not disclose the results of his in the northern part of the vote by saying he disagreed with polls. country as citizens migrate to the exceptions to the amend­The Majority Whip also got in the "Sun Belt." ment (or lack of) proposed by· digs at two fellow members of Rep. Hyde. the House-Michael Myers 
Brademas added he has anQ Dan Quayle. In explaining Amnestyworked for a variety of policies why he voted to have Myers to lessen the incidence of expelled from the House, he abortion, such as maternity said that "he's a big boy-a groupleave for pregnant employees, fellow like that never had any counseling for pregnant teen­business coming to the agers, and easier adoption sy­Congress ofthe United Statesin 
meeting
stems. the first place." 

In the interview, Brademas On Quayle, who is running Amnesty International vehemently denied that he had against Democratic incumbent Group 43 will sponsor a movie. accepted contributions from Birch Bayh, Brademas com­and hold a general meeting this Amoco and Getty Oil, a charge mented, "Danny Quayle is a Wednesday, October 8, in made by Indiana Republican pleasant, affable fellow who has LaFortune Center at 4:30p.m. Chairman Bruce Melchert in no more business in the Senate The movie is entitled "Human response to Brademas' ad cam­of the United States than the Rights in South Korea" and will paign linking opponent John man in the moon." Brademas begin showing at4:30. After the Hiler with "big oil." The noted that Quayle has no bills movie Prof. Gil Loescher will congressman was evasive on to his name, misses many com­make a few short commentsand Hiler's claim that Brademas will mittee meetings, and is often will answer questions. Fol­spend more than $500,000 in late for roll call votes "because lowing this will be a very brief this campaign, but he did admit he's just come back from the general meeting of current that "we'll spend more than gym. He's a nice fellow, but he's members and anyone wishing we've ever spent before, and out of his league." to become a member. The there'll be more spent against Brademas also defended the general public is invited to me than has ever been spent high unemployment· and de-attend the movie. 
Tuesday, October 7, 1980 -page 3 
• • • Politics 
profits tax, and mandatory cent gas tax, and does not favor building conservation stan­abolition of the 55 mph speed dards. limit. 
Within the ND-SMC com­Besides the alternative munity, energy positions are energy sources already men­divided just· as significantly. tioned, there is one which Renshaw agrees with the always inspires the most heated Republican philosophy, debate: nuclear power. The two stating, "the capitalist system major party platforms are will work fine if it is allowed to diametrically opposed on this operate by itself." Renshaw also issue, with Anderson ad­supports a move proposed by vocating a middle course. Reagan to abolish the relatively Reagan and the Republicans young (five years) Department assert that "we support ac­of Energy, which Renshaw celerated use of nuclear energy believes has "increased" the through technologies that have energy problem. been proven efficient and safe." 
Prof. Michael Francis, The Democrats state that "as chairman of the ND alternative fuels become avail­Government Department, re­able in the future, we will retire fers to Reagan's conservative nuclear power plants in an energy policy as "an oil man's orderly manner." erotic dream," believing that Renshaw commented, "I'm the Republican plan will only appalled by the wave ofhy•d<·ria help the rich, a frequent surrounding Three Milt· :,la 1d. criticism of the GOP proposal. The risks are not as great ;t~ they Francis supports Anderson's 50 have bt'en prest:nted to be." 
:*********************************~
* * 
* * 
~ Presidential Debate ~ * * 
~ Representing: ~ * * 
~ Carter James C. Murphy ~ ~ Reagan Mark Lynch ! ~ Anderson Frank Tighe ~ 
* * 
. ! * Tuesday, October 7 9:30 p.m. !* * Walsh Hall -South Lounge * 


:*-~******************************~ 
C.K.R.'s 103 Dixie Way So. • Roseland, IN. 272-4833 
Presents DISCO EXPLOSION 
EVERY TUESDAY NITE STARTING OCTOBER 7th 
From 9 to 1 Disco with Drew on CKR's New Disco Lite dance floor... 
***No Cover Charge*** 
Free Records Every Hour *Economy Prices* From 9 to 1 A.M. 
All DRINKS e Y2 PRICE All DRAFT BEER e 40 cents PITCHERS e $2.00 



Oonrad Terrien 
speaks on the Myth -of Overpopulation • 

0 
• 
0 
!hurs. Oct. 9 7:10 p.m. Lib. Aud. , 
Tuesday, October 7, 1980 -page 4
The Observer 
How safe are we? 



Leading British conservative makes appearance at ND 
A leading spokesman for Britain's Conservative Party, David McDonough, will discuss "The History and Rise ofaNew Conservativism" during a University of Notre Dame ap­pearance October 9. The talk at 
4:15 in Room 124 of Hayes­Healy Center is sponsored by the College of Business Administration and is open to the public. 
McDonough is head of a London-based consulting firm and the author of an election worker's handbook used by 
. 
Advertised Item Polley 
of thur •dnrt•ud •ltm\ •s rtquutd to br rudtll for \Jit '" uch Mrogpr \torr flCfpt •s sptcrf• '" Utt\ •d If •r do run out of .tn .lfl • •ttm •t •·li offrr tou you• rhotcr of .1 com 


$159 Gal. 
•tfm ...," it.t••.ttl•r ·rfltct·n~ lht \.lmr \.l¥rn&' 
'" n~f\r,·• •'uch •· · t''"l·flr •ou to purch•\1' lhr ~tt rr ,,,..,.. ~~ !llr ,.ht•f \I'd to~' , f ••Hun J\' l1t1VS 

Prime Minister Thatcher in her 
campaign. He also serves as 
personal assistant to the 
Conservative Party chairman of 
Greater London. 

He is currently ori a three­
week American tour sponsored · 
by the United States Industrial 
Council Education Foundation. 
Other appearances have been 
scheduled for Charleston, 
University of South Carolina 
Law School, East Tennessee 
State University, Kent State 
and the University of 
Wisconsin. 
I 

Springdale 2% Lowfat Milk 

Assorted Varieties $1 Fleece Morton Pot Pies Paper Towels . 3 8 oz. Pkg. Jumbo Rolls 39¢ Hair Spray 89¢
Sungofd 
Aqua Net

Wiener or 
10 oz. can

Sandwich Buns 
8 Ct. Pkg. 
Cavity Fighter $129 1 Colgate Toothpaste 7 oz. Tube 
Avondale Macaroni & Cheese 

7% oz. Pkg. 




Student hits police beat 
/By Rich Fischer , 
When I arrived at police headquarters (701 Sample Street) early Friday evening, Acting Lieutenant Gene Kyle, commander of the· afternoon watch, took time out to answer some of my questions before I hit the streets. When asked about the extent of police coverage in the northeast sec­tor of the city, which encom­passes the area from the St. Joe River to the town limits and west ofEddy Street, he took me out into the main corridor ahd showed me the manpower lists. He explained that there are ;~.lwavs two cars riding in tnct 10 
during the after1:1oon shift, 
which lasts until 10:30 p.m., 
with one ofthese concentrating 
on the high assault-burglary 
area. 
The manpower sheets were 
for project ABLE. Project 
ABLE puts three extra men, 
paid time-and-a-half, into the 
off-campus area during each 
afternoon watch, including one 
in an unmarked car. In addition 
to this, on Friday and Saturday 
nights, another three men walk 
the district in street clothes, 
both patrolling the area and 
acting as a decoy team. This 
means that the everyday 
coverage of the 0-C area is five 
men, and eight on weekends. 
Considering that South Bend 
has a population of close to 
130,000 people and that there 
are only 230 policemen to 
protect them 24 hours a day, the coverage allotted this area is generous. 

I was next introduc;:ed to Corporal Tim Corbett, who was my guide for the remainder of the afternoon shift. Heading to the car, Tim commented that the rain should keep things quiet, although "you never can tell." When I got into car 660, I found myself leaning my left elbow on the butt ofa shotgun, with the muzzle resting on top of my foot. I asked .if it was loaded. It was. I moved my foot. 
While the car was being filled with gas, I asked Corporal Corbett his opinion of the ND students he encounters. He respunded that they were "90% decent kids" who presented "no big problems", and that most of the problems were caused by stupidity, not .mali­ciousness. 
He said that students cause problems for themselves when they walk home alone, instead of in groups of five or six, or when they drink too much as to 
lose  their  ability  to  think  
straight.  
Corporal  Corbett  told  me  

that, yes, he did wear a flak vest, and yes, it had saved his life when his back was razor strap­ped a few years back. When I questioned the amount of danger in routine patrol jobs, Corbett,who is point man for the SWAT team, commented on his shift "for eight hours, I don't trust anybody but a­
nother cop". 
Our first call was a sprung 
Kroger Eatmore Margarine 
1 lb. Pkg. 39¢ 

Springdale Homogenized Milk 

$169 Gal. 
43¢ 
Country Oven 49¢ 4 Varieties Pretzels 9 oz. Pkg. 
Crisp Sungold 
Saltin~s 
16 oz. Box 
Van Camp Pork & Beans 2 16 oz. Cans 


burglar aiarm in a residential 
area. We responded'silently' ­
red lights, but no siren, run­
ning the traffic signals. How­
ever, another car arrived first to 
find that the owner had ac­
cidentally set it off. 
Back to the streets. Corporal 
Corbett likes to vary his regular 
patrol, never running a pattern. 
We cruised silently through the 
streets; with our lights, even 
our brake lights, extinguished. 
Third dispatch-all_ avail­
able cars in the area were to 
respond to a report of shots 
fired from a l'tloving vehicle. 
Another car took the com­
plaint, while we tried to 'make' 
the escape vehicle. Neither of 
us had any luck-there was no 
evidence of shots fired, and no 
car for us. 
Next came a coffee break­
each shift gets a meal break and 
two coffee breaks, one before 
the meal and one after. I was · surprised to find how tense I had become in the squad car, always expecting something to 
happen. Sitting in Pizza Hut, I 
was introduced to Corporal 
Tom Trenerry, who later took 
me on his midnight patrol. 
Twenty minutes later we 
were back on the streets, and we 
immediately got our first call­
"woman purse-snatching vic­
tim down". Corporal Corbett 
hit the works-lights, siren, 
and gas pedal. 
This article wtll be continued in a subsequent issue of the 
Observer. 
Assorted Varieties Jeno's Pizza 
11%-12112 oz. Pkg. $109 EA. 

Mild 

California 
Yellow 

Thompson
Homegrown
Onions 

Seedless
White Potatoes
3 lb~ Bag 


Grapes
10 lb. Bag $148



69¢ EA. 

88¢ lb. 
The Observer Tuesday, October 7. 1980 -page ' 
Office hanky -panky 
Bendix suffers sex scandal 


Out of the closet 

NDgay students organize 
By Dolores A. Barclay 
Associated Press Writer 

NEW YORK-The corporate world is abuzz with the aftermath of "The Bendix Blunder," an incident that has focused atten­tion on promotional practices in the executive suite. 
At issue to many is the way some executives view women when they rise rapidly through corporate ranks. It is quite a different standard than that applied to men. It is The Rumor. 
Last week Bendix Corp. chair­man William Agee felt he had to dispel the rumor swirling around his office that Mary Cunningham was promoted from vice president for public affairs to the infinitely more important post of vice president for strategic planning because she was roman­tically involved with him. 
Agee, 42 and recently divorced, took the extraordinary step of publicly announcing he had promoted Ms. Cunningham because she was his friend. 
Ms. Cunningham, 29, and 

Almost ... 

This summer's fire safety renovations recently separated, then issued are nean"ng completion. Halls incltded .her own statement, requesting a in the renovations were Sorin, Badin, leave of absence until the rumor and Walsh. A workman is seen here mill ran out of grist. completing the steps in Badin. [photo by • Her request generated a slew 
Greg Maurer] ofcriticism from other executive 
by Kt~thy Corcortln 
The Gay Students of Notre Dame announce the organiza­tion ofa grou'p for homosexual men and women on campus. 
The main objective of this group is to create an environ­ment for the exchange of ideas .md information on the con­dition of the gay person in contemporary society. The group is presently more con­cerned with resolving problems faced by individual gay stu­dents, than it is with altering the Notre Dame Community's at­titudes toward homosexuality. 
According to spokesmen for the group, the University of Notre Dame has had a gay organization since 1969, the group being more active in some years than others. 
The University, however, has never recognized this group. The members of this organi­zation interviewed, claim that representatives from their gtoup have gone to Fr. Hesburgh in the past and asked for recognition, but he has always refused. They also said that the Director of Student Activities a few years ago was willing to give their organiza­tion club status, but this pro­posal was immediately revoked by higher authorities. 
The gays do not see their predicament with the admini­stration as changing in the future. In fact they view the University as "moving back­wards" in policies. They claim that it is the Catholic.stigma at the University that puts the damper on the situation. They say the Church considers ho­mosexuality a "grave moral disorder" and can only accept homosexuals if they choose to be celibate. 
According to spokesmen, there is no group policy on the Catholic Religion, rather each gay person must resolve his relationship with the Church in his own mind. 
When asked why they chose to attend Notre Dame, given the present circumstances, the members replied that it is a place to get a good education, and most students diq not be­come actively gay until after they had already come here. 
Despite scientific and psy­chological studies, no one really knows what causes homosexu­ality, but the question for the gays right now is not why, rather how. That is, how can they help other students with simjlar problems. They claim that one realizing his or her own ho­mosexuality can be a traumatic experience, especially in an atmosphere where the Church causes tremendous amounts of guilt in students with homo­sexual tendencies. 
The organization wants such 
students te know that they are 
not the "only lonely fags out 
there." Consequently the or­
ganization runs a gay informa­
tion line, and has a post office 
box for written correspondence 
as well. 
According to the members, 
"the biggest step is accepting 
yourselfas you are, to be honest 

with yourself, even if not with . 
anyone else." 
Two years ago, the Notre 
Dame gay community was 
brought into the limelight by a 
series of articles published in 
the Obsen•er, written by student 
Mark Amenta. The gays them­
selves say that Amenta went a 
bit "overboard," implying that 
it was "better" to be gay, 
without stressing that these 
were his own viewpoints. 
Many gays were upset by his 
statements, especially due to 
the fact that the entire gay 
community was automatically 
linked to his opinions. This incident discouraged any af­

firmative gay action until just 
recently. 
The present community in­

volves about twenty people 
who consider themselves"justa 
group of friends." They do not 
aspire to become a publicly 
radical group, rather they are 
happy to remain in the back­
ground as long as they are still 
available to the people who 
need them. . The gays feel that their gripes 
against the Administration are 
consistent with those of many 
"straight" students. They ob­
ject to the overall "sheltered 
social atmosphere" of the cam­
pus, which is partially respon­
sible for their detrimental po­
sition in the Notre Dame com-. 
munity. 
As off-campus students, they 

also feel that Dean Roemer is 
more concerned with kegs at 
off-campus parties than assaults 
on students. They see students 
getting "restless" under the 
Administation, but feel there is 
not enough criticism going 
around. 
Gay students at Notre Dame 

consider themselves to lead 
normal lives, with the excep­
tion of one aspect, and feel that 
it is unfair to be totally 
identified by the one fact that 
makes them different. They 
claim that gay people are as 
"vast and different as straight 
people," and as one spokesman 
added, "We're not all theater 
majors!" 
The students interviewed for 

this article choose to remain 
anonymous for "obvious 
reasons," but welcome re­
sponse by phone or mail. The 
Gay Information Line is 232­
8659, and will be open 
Wednesday and Thursday 
nights ofthis week from 10 p.m. 
until Midnight. The address is 
P.O. Box 206, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. · 
types who thought she was running away from the issue. 
The board of Bendix, the nation's largest independent auto supplier and 88th largest industrial company, denied Ms. Cunningham's request.· It told her she would have to stay on the job and fight it out. 








JOCiii
::::::::::!:::::::::::::::.::::::;:::::::~:;:~:;:::~;:::::~:;: 
"I have a lot of respect for the directors of that corporation for not taking her request," said Muriel Siebert, superintendent of the New York State Banking Department and the first woman admitted to the New York Exchange, in 1967. "It said that we're not going to let the rumors determine what will happen to good employees." , 
"How many of us know the sons of someone with a very familiar sounding name who enters a company as the bright promising star and suddenly has a meteoric rise?" asked a senior vice president at a Wall Street firm who asked that his name not 

The New Jersey Club is considering running a SECOND BUS over October break. All those interested in making a reservation may sign up in Lafortune Ballroom on Wednesday, October 8 at 7 p.m. Please note that reservations must be accompanied by a full payment of $69. 
be used. 
"Usually, these men aren't 
even qualified," he said. "But we 
somehow swallow this and don't 
say anything. Just because Mary 
Cunningham is a woman, we say 
she only got the job because she's 
sleeping around. That's non­
sense." 
Ms. Cunningham, a Harvard Business School graduate who worked in the loan department at Chase Manhatten Bank before joining Bendix last year, is said to ·be a bright, talented executive 
with good credentials. 
Bill Welsh, a Boston consul­
tant who was at Harvard with Ms. 
Cunningham, said she had an 
excellent reputation on campus. 
"She was a second-year student 
and gave the marketing training 
course," he said. ''It was very 
good. Everyone's reaction was 
that she knew what she was 
talking about and was very 
talented." 
Most executives said they thought the Bendix caper would have little effect on how women are promoted within corpora­tions. 



...., .....­

Editorials Tuesday, October 7, 1980 -page 6  
c ars and rumors ofwars ~ Anthony Walton The events of the Iast few weeks 11:!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!;1 eXperience with the military, as Iinvolving the war between Iran and have been involved with ROTC,Iraq have started me wondering and my father is a former member and worrying about the distant, but of the military.ominous, specter of war, and the prospect that I could be drafted and I suppose that most people will sent to fight and possibly die "for see my position as ultimately my country." It's funny because selfish, because it is not built upon this past summer's registration a lifelong commitment to pacificismproceedings didn't scare me half as or some deeply felt set of religious much as last week's sending of beliefs. In fact, I used to be gung-ho planes to Saudi Arabia by militarily, and I came very close, President ~Carter to aid in the much closer than I care to admit, to defense of the Persian Gulf and attending the Naval Academy. But Straits of Hormuz area. now I'm a little older, hopefully a I will admit that this is due to a little wiser, and I no longer see war large amount of paranoia on my as making any sense in any way part. but it reminded me of the shape or form. Why should I, or initial moves into Vietnam, and anyone for that matter, go to some even more significantly it showed a foreign land and undergo a life­willingness on the part of the altering, possibly life-ending ex­government to get involved in the perience as the result of rhetorical conflict in the Middle East to differences between big-time defend the oil routes, and eventual­politicians whom I don't know, will ly, the oil fields. probably never even see, and who It is much too early for any view me solely as another warm drastic statements or actions, but I body to carry a back pack and an cannot ignore the potential impli­M-1? Why should I die for the cations ofthese and other actions. I principles of a monolithic bureau­am referring to the saber-rattling cracy that only needs me for wars statements made by Carter toward and taxes? I have a mother who the Russians last winter, the futile loves me quite a bit, and so far I like Iranian rescue attempt and the living. As Muhammad Ali said. "I increasingly jingoistic and xeno­ain't got nothin' against them Viet phobic mood on the part of many Congs." Americans. (Not to mention the favorite theory of us cynical There have been wars since the pacifists that the economy cannot beginning of time, and they have function without a war.) That pub­I~ WAZ--AND only proved one thing: that wars licized picture of Zbigniew don't prove, change, or settle any­Breszinski jokingly pointing an thing. We are spoon-fed propa­MY~,''AK-47 at the Soviet Union is a ganda and patriotism from the age focal point of my concern, because offive, and if it is so deemed, we are every time I see or think about that expected to give up everything and picture, it occurs to me that go die for something which we Brzezinski will have a large hand in don! even know about. It is as poetgetting us involved in a war, but it Alan Bold said, "Not for his will be me and my friends who are country, because of it." It can getholding that rifle for keeps. very frustrating, and it makes me It all comes to this: If and when very angry, because I may be just another insignificant Social~reisawm~d~Koo~~yi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~draft, what will I do? It would be Security Number out here. but I'm very easy to assume the position of crucial decisions that may be made matter: I have decided that I will myself fighting in a war context the only one I've got. I feel the same a doctrinaire on this issue, and by each and every potential draftee. not fight, or in any way be party to a would be a direct invasion of the way about my friends. I say no. ri"ot decide whether to fight or resist. The days of blind compliance are war that is fought on foreign soil. United States. a situation which me, not my brother, not my sister. But the initial, emotional taking of past. at least for me, and this I'm not going to fight so that people would directly threaten the not my friends. Nobody. No way.either position ignores the para­situation opens up the classic can drive Cadillacs and have blow-sovereignty of the country. I often doxical reality of war and the argument of the individual versus Then I have to turn around anddryers and air conditioners. I'm not wonder if I would even fight for the state. face what is always called reality.going to die for France and that. but if I didn't. it would be for Anthonr Walton is a H'eek!y War exists in this world and itGermany in the·latest\episode of very different reasons than those I olumnisi for The Observer's Before I go any further, I may as­always will. But that doesn't makeEuropean craziness. In fact. the wish to deal with here. I have not editorials page. well state my positionon this it right. There are still a fewonly situation in which I can see come to these conclusions without  




Doonesbury 
Y(){J 5HOUUJ TRY IT.
Mil<£, 00 YOU I FINO I HAVe A
/lL/)}AY5 USC 
LOT MORe (J}NJ1/JF.Joi:E I
NOTES IAJHOJ IXJN'T YOU CAL-L A YOU? 
If I'VE U/ORJ<WOUTI !A/HAT I'M GOING 7D
G!RLON7HE 
PHON£? 5AY IN AIJV/INC&. 
" 

by Garry Trudeau 
AL..SO, IT F~£'3 ME. 70 THIN!< OF SPONTAN­EIJU5 577Jff THAT I CAN TH!3N PEPPER. THRDUGH 7H& CON­
Ve<sAT/ON. \ 

idealistic bones left in this body. and I can't see why I and my counterparts around the world should have to give up our precious one time around in life. War is always cosmeticized. what with its troops. casualties, policing actions. deforestations. and all the other euphemisms for death and destruc­tion. But words cannot hide the results of past wars. the sufferings and repercussions that last generations. War may be an unfor­tunate reality. but in the end we all have to answer for ourselves. and my answer will be no. I didn't participate in the madness called war. I can't see any other way. It's either that or be a member of the latest generation they bury. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 



====Ih~~~~==== 

Editor-in-Chief ................ Paul Mullaney Sports Editor . ................. Beth Huffman 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Managing Editor ................... Mark Rust Features Editor . ................ Molly Woulfe 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 

Edttoria!s Editor ............... Mike Onufrak Photo Editor .................... .John Macor
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collese. It does not necessarily 

Senior Copy Editor . .............. Lynne Daley Business Manager ............... Greg Hedges 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institutiOn. The news is reponed Executive News Editor .......... TomJackman Controller......................... .Jim Rudd
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views News Editor . ................... Pam Degnan Advertising Manager . ............... Mark Ellis of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and SMC Executive Editor .......... Margie Brassil Circulation Mawger.. ........... Beth Hackett the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC News Editor ... ............ Mary Leavitt Production Manager ............John McGrath 


Features 
Tuesday, October 7, 1980 -page 7 
A Brief History of Boozing Ballads 
Wrne that maketh glad the heart of man. 
-Psalms, CIV, 15 
lwer since the dawn of alcohol, a drinking culf'Ure has existed and has given us countless drinking songs and verses. A good drinking song is generaII; one with a short chorus, thus allowing .tmple time for a hearty swig between verses. 
Perhaps one of the most charming Medieval drinking ditties was dedicat­ed to an animal whom nobody usually saw until after many verses-and as many drinks. 
"Hey !11m dum dittie d11m 
[)rink to the Magic Squirrel! 
Sing the song of a drinking man! 
Ht·y nonny nonny normy ho 
Sir1g hip ho. Sing drddle drddle diddl~. 
Srng The Magic Squirrel!" 
Hey lum dum dittie dum 
JJri'nk to the Magic Squirrel!" 
The rest of the verses were Im­provisation and often alluded to blackguarding. 
This was a favorite among the British Isles until the Age of Reason. 
The Irish have always been noted for their drinking ballads and poems. Short verse was always welcome in Irish pubs, and quite often it was all that could be remembered after a• few rounds. Typical of such short verse is "O'Hallaghan's Bar and Grill": "Ftll me 
glass, Saint Paddy, do,· 
Pray for whiske)•; that tue wtll! 
Afld ife'er ifl Eire y' be, 
O'Hallaghafl's Bar afld Grtll." 
Over in mainland Europe, drinking tunes were also popular. The Germans sang such greats as "Heil, Heil, the Gang's All Here," and "What do You Do with a Drunken Fuhrer?" 
Italy, too, saw its own drinking culture. However, in Italy-;' while drinking, it was more common to play the bazooki and cry a lot. Never­theless, the Italians did produce a drinking song or two, not least of which being "Mama, Mi Mama, I'm Drinking a Llama." 
"Mama, mi mama, 
I'm drinkiflg a llama, 
Plea.re pass the salt over here. 

Mama, mi mama, pray, how could a llama 
· Manage to crawl ifl my beer?" 

The French melodies of inebriation resembled love songs more than drinking songs and frequently compared women to drink. 
"Mon cherr; mofl cherr; 
Your lips are like wine, 

Your hair is like golden light beer, 
Your eyes are like shots 
0/ brm rbon so rare, 

But what is that stuff in your ear?" 
The Jews, who were scattered about hurope, invented tunes befitting their own heritage and culture when they gathered around the bar. Among 
Jewish drinking hits were "Get Me a 
Drink: My Feet Hurt", and "\l;'on't Somebody Fill up my Stein". But 
perhaps the all-time chart topper was "Tell Me, Bartender." 
"Tell me, bartender, So how is your mother? And what is that drink that you're makin'? Bring us a bottle Ofold Mogen David, And drink til we want to eat bacon. " 
African elbowbenders brewed up many drinking songs, including this one brought back by French mission­
aries: "Oomhagga goombab yay Oombagga goombah yay Oombagga goombah yay 
Drink that &hnapps, my man!" 
This was part ofa Nigerian drinking ritual in which a whole tribe would do shots until everyone had passed out. 
Russians never really sung full­-fledged drinking songs. They would merely snort vodka and hum Johnny Cash ballads. 
The Far bast introduced to the world the drinking haiku. 
"The glistening cup Beckons like a mountai11 stream; Dr~nk 'ttl I ttnkle." 
The youngest of large drinking cultures is the United States where drinking habits quickly surpassed those ofits elders. Due to the"melting pot" principle, the U.S. produced a unique brand of drinking song and verse. Irish-Americans had great in­fluence on the stvle of early American drinking poems. 
Pat Byrnes 
"Drink my wine and be merry; 
Ftll up your glass from my ;itg,· 
Drink all my beer and my whiskey, 
But don't throw up on my rug." 
The American drinking ditty chang­ed over the years, but kept its original character of alcoholic camraderie. Loggers emerged as the most colorful drinking sect. Probably the epitome of drunken lyric produced by this group was "Thank God I'm a Loggin' Man." 
"Got my axe in my hand And a beer on the table, Sittin' on my lap Is my sweetheart, Mabel. Life ain't nothin' hut a keg o' Black Label Thank God I'm a loggin' man!" 
Such traditional songs are still remembered in many parts of the world where leisure is leisure and not a competitive commercial sport. God only knows what sort ofdrinking songs our fast-paced, rat-race society will hand down to posterity. Indeed I should hope we do pass on some drinking songs to future generations, lest we tamper with tradition. After all, some traditions are sacred. 
'Drink a martini for Dow and for jones. Yeh hoi !fie driflk Sever~ Crown. Close your accouflt at First Savtngs and Loan, Thet1 come to Skrd Row and buy us a round!" 
Pat Byrnes is a senior Ae_rospacf:! major from Farmington. Hills, Mt. and an Observer cartoonzst. 

'Shot in the Dark '--Acts II & III on Target 

A Shot in thC' /)flrk, adapted by Harry 
Kurnitz from Achard's I 'tdiote, is the 
forerunner of the Piflk Panther films 
starring the late Peter Sellers. The 
StudentUnion Players opened Shot to a 
small audience last Friday night in 
Washington Hall. Unlike the Sellers 
films, the play is more comedy-drama 
than slapstick. Advice: Sit through the 
first act. The second and third acts 
redeem an exasperating opening scene. 
The play takes place in Paris, in the 
shabby office of a newly-appointed 
magistrate, Paul Sevigne {Paul 
Pisarski). He is confronting his first 
case; a tarty young chambermaid, Josefa, {Heather Fraser), has been accused of murdering her co-worker and lover, a chauffeur named Miguel. Sl·vigne's Higher Authorities are already pushing for Mademoiselle's conviction as her employers-the fabulously wealthy Beaurevers-dis­approve of the cast:'s publicity in the papers. And the Beau revers own half of Paris. 
Sevigne believesjosefa is innocent· in the criminal respect-and is determined to prove it. The plot thickens with the discovery that.Josefa has had an affair with Monsieur Beau revers, and Madame B. is having a fling of her own. "Whodunnit" is resolved in the third and final act. 
As the dedicated lawman, Pisarski is likeable enough, more so as his sarcasm sharpens as the case pro­gresses. Heather Fraser playsJosefa to the hilt as a dizzy, giddy, young thing who'll prattle away for hours until one is tempted to throttle her into silence. IfDirector Mary Kay Beckman had cut at least ten minutes ot Joseta's 

ramblings from the first act, the scene would have been enhanced consider­ably. Perhaps Beckman left the script intact to let the audience identify with the ear-chattered-off Sevigne, and if so, she was successful. If Sevigne had finally lost his temper and throttled 
Josefa, he would have received a standing ovation from the audience, if not offers of assistance. 
Fortunately, Sevigne's sidekick and secretary, Moristan, (Chris Vergara), provides some comic diversion from 
Josefa's twittering. Moris tan is a bored, indifferent chap until the chambermaid starts chirping about her many past 

Molly Woulfe 
tete-a-fetes. One can almost see the 
sweat beading Vergara's brow as he 
'neglects his tran~cript to gape, or 
scrutinize Josefa's anatomy. 
The arrival ofMonsieur and Madame 
Beaurevers {Sean Faircloth and Nicole 
Camdiano) at tht' offict: in the next act 
injects some fint' comedy into the play. 
Faircloth, with pip~:: and tweed jacket, 
puffs away coolly during questioning, 
like a Parisian Hugh Hefner. 
Camdiano, as his haughty wife, 
"directly descended from A tilla the 
Hun," can frost windows with a single 
look. Camdiano is on stage too briefly, 
as is Sevigne's catty, attractive wife, 
Antoinette Oean Menoni). 
Pat DePace plays LaBianche, 
Sevigne's harassed supervisor, and Bol 
Fink appears as a guard. 
Problems with the play are due to the script itself. for individual performances ilfe notable. The first ac1 is just too long, and despite a rare reference to Paris, and the cast's excellent !=OStumes, there is no n:al sense that the play takes place in tlw City of Light. What French chambermaid is going to gasp"( >h. ml' and my big mouth!" or confide "Between vou and me, she's a rea! dog." And.why can't Madame Beaurevers deliver her own testimony, instead of Moristan reading it afterwards? It would have been more interesting to watch the Ice Queen defrost in person. 
A Shot in the !Jark will be performed again this Friday and Saturday in Washington Hall. Bring earplugs for the first act, then enjoy the rest. 


• 
I 
,_ I ·~ Tuesday, October 7 , 1980 -page 8 
I 

-The-Observer 
~ 
r
, 


Molarity 
e3:30 p.tp. -tennis, nd 
women vs. butler u. home. 
e4:30 p.m. -seminar, 
"developmental endocrino­
logy of the male reproduc­
tive system in oncopeltus 
fasciatus (dallas)," dr. 
lindamargaret hunt, nd. 
galvin aud. 
e7 p.m. -meeting, nd 
historical society, mem. 
librarv aud. 
e7 p.m. -meeting,world 
hunger coalition disar­
mament meeting, hayes 
healy. 
e7 p.m. -meeting and 
slide show, spans: ohio 
l:umworker support comm. 
hayes-healy aud. 
e7 p.m. -mock debate, 
jim murphy (carter), frank 
tighe (anderson), mark lynch 
(reagan), mark rust com­
mentator,open session, 
carroll hall,smc. 
•7:30p.m. -ladies of nd open meeting and tea, mem. library aud. es p.m. -film, "ptfter ustinov's leningrad," spans: educational media, snite au d. 

Blood donation schedule 
A tentative schedule for Notre Dame student blood donations was announceti today by Brian Konzen and Matt Flaherty, co-chairmen of the effort. 
Students from the following halls will give blood in the Student Health Center from 1 
p.m. to 3 p.m. on the days indicated: Keenan and Stanford -October 7,8,9 Fisher and Lyons-October 14,15,16 Holy Cross and Morrissey­November 4,5,6 Breen-Phillips and Grace­November 11,12,13 
Lewis and Cavanaugh­November 18,19,20 

Social Life Survey due 
All Student Government Social Life Surveys should be returned today in order that they may be processed before the Board ofTrustees meeting. Your cooperation is greatly 


Peanuts 
010 L{OlJ HEAR WHAT THAT KID CALLED ME?! 


The Daily Crossword 


ACROSS 30 A -for! 51 -Tse-tung 19 Roam 1 Concubine (pooh) 52 Columnist 21 Cover quarters 31 Discompose Initials 25 Islet 5 Sale sign 35 Business (1881·1960) 26 Makea 9 Hide away letter 55 Stir choice 
14 British words 56 Daytime 27 African statesman 36 Graybeard 60 Astarof republic 15 Oxidation 38 0 
"Pillow 28 Tearjerker 16 A medium 39 Ketterling Talk" 29 Cutles 17 Wild cry of 40 Be In debt 63 Cruising 30 Just revelers 41 Card game 64 Heavens: 32 Miss Hasso 18 Baroness cry 
comb. form 33 ArabVIPs Dudevant 42 Something 65 Formerly, 34 Belief 20 Round table to live by once 36 Sally town 45 As to 66 catch the 
Rand's prop '\ 22 Alliance 48 Beginning breath 37 Shesheep letters 47 Loco 
67 Cutoff 39 Flgureof 23 Bolger 48 Top ofthe 68 Engagement speech 
69 Gaelic 43 Mil. unit 

24 Drunk heap 25-"-to bed" 49 Animal with 
44 Egypt, 27 Like some a fleshy DOWN formerly messages proboscis 1 Ollgroup 45 Period in 2 Marilyn historyMonday's Results Home, e.g. 48 Vehicle 

3 Snippet 50 Little: Fr. 4 Pittsburgh 51 -Carlo 
player 52 Clerics 5 Patois 53 Luxurious 6 Tallow base 54 Deedln 7 Equal: Dljon 
comb. form 56 Lion's 8 Citadel share 9 Constrain 57 Rlverto 

10-Palmas the Danube 11 Hebrew 58 Loch-month 59 Be curious 12 Ship of 61 Isthmus of history -(Malay) 13 Westlndles 62 Rel.of bird Mme. 

MARDI GRAS OrganizationalMeeting 
WEDNESDAY 

ALL: 
Committee Members  - 7:00  
ALL: Hall Chairmen Architects Ticket Sales  - 7:45  

Lafortune Little Theater 



Freshtnan RegisterRegister ... 
Applications for the the Freshman Register will be taken Oct. 9th from 1:00pm to 5:00pm next to the ticket office, 2nd floor LaFortune 
bring check & picture price includes both book & supplement 
Those, other than /freshman, ' interested in ordering a ReKister may do so. (St. Mar_y's Freshman will be contacted · ' b the St. Mar_y's Freshman Council) 


Michael Molinelli 

11 GOLF BALL NOSE 11 IS NOT ATERM OF ENDEARMENT! 



I 

__ ,
Tuesday , October 7, 1980 -page 9
The Observer -Sports Board I 
Buffalo 
Football 
National Football League American Conference Ell! 
W L T Pet. PF PA 5 001.00012274 

New England 4 1 0 .800 136 110 
Baltimore 
3.20.60011593 Miami 3 2 0 .600 82 96 
N.Y. Jets 0 I 5 0 .000 83 130 
Central 

Pittsburgh 4 1 0 .800 140 B4
Houston 3 2 0 .600 74 90 
Cleveland 2 3 0 .400 94 109 
Cincinnati 1 4 0 .200 77 B9 West 
San Diego 4 1 0 .800 142 B3Seattle 3 2 0 .600 101 94 Denver 2 3 0 .400 93 116 Oakland 2 3 0 .400 99 120 Kansas City 1 4 0 .200 81 105 
National Conference East Dallas 4 1 0 .BOO 117 71 Philadelphia 4 1 0 .BOO 142 54 St. Louis 230.400 127 106 N.Y. Giants 1 4 0 .200 75 145 Washington 1 4 0 .200 61 100 Central Detroit 4 1 0 .BOO 145 84 Minnesota 2 3 0 .400 B9 129 Tampa Bay 2 3 0 .400 71 106 Chicago 230.400 6B B7 Green Bay 230.400 61 123 
West Atlanta 3 2 0 .600 140 110 Los Angeles 3 2 0 .600 156 105 San Francisco 3 2 0 .600 130 139 New Orleans 0 5 0 .000 75 144 
Sunday's Games Baltimore 30, Miami 17 Green Bay 14, Cincinnati 9 Denver 19, Cleveland 16 Atlanta 43, Detroit 2B New England 21, N.Y. Jets 11 Pittsburgh 23, Minnesota 17 St. Louis 40, New Orleans 7 Seattle 26, Houston 7 Philadelphia 24, Washington 14 Buffalo 26, San Diego 24 Kansas City 31, Oakland 17 Dallas 24, New York Giants 3 
Los Angeles 48, San Fran. 26 
Last Night's Game Chicago 23, Tampa Bay 0 
Sunday, October 12 Baltimore at Buffalo Cincinnati at Pittsburgh Green Bay at Tampa Bay Philadelphia at N.Y. Giants Miami at New England San Francisco at Dallas Chicago at Mlnnesota los Angeles at St. Louis Cleveland at Seattle Houston at Kansas .City New Orleans at Detroit New York Jets at Atlanta San Diego at Oakland 
Monday, October 13 Washington at Denver 
Here's how the Top Twenty teams In last week's Associated Press college football poll fared this weekend: 
1. 
Alabama (4-0) beat Kentucky 45-0. 

2. 
Ohio St. (3-1) lost to UCLA 17-3. 

3. 
Nebraska (3-1) lost to Florida St. 18-14. 

4. 
Southern Cal (4-0) beat Arizo­na St. 23-21. 


5. Texas (4-0) beat Rice 41-28. 
6. 
Pittsburgh (4-0) beat Maryland 3B-9. 

7. 
Notre Dame [3-0) bnt Mlchlgan St. 26-21. 


8. Georgia (4-0) did not play. 
9. 
Missouri (3-1) lost to Penn St. 29-21. 

10. 
North Carolina (4-0) beat Georgia Tech 33-0. 

11. 
UCLA (4-0) beat Ohio St. 17-0. 

12. 
Oklahoma (2-1) beat Colorado 82-42. 

13. 
Miami, Fla. (4-0) did not play. 

14. 
Arkansas (3-1) beat Texas Christian 44-7. 


15. 
Stanford (4-1) beat San Jose St. 35-21. 

16. 
Florida St. (4-1) beat Nebra­ska 1B-14. 

17. 
Penn St. (3-1) beat Missouri 29-21. 

18. 
South Carolina (4-1) beat South Carolina St. 30-10. 

19. 
Florida (3-1) lost to Louisiana St. 24-7. 

20. 
Baylor (4-0) beat Houston 24-12. 


This week's Associated Press college football poll. First place votes In parenthesis, total points at right. Points awarded 20 for first place vote, 19 lor seco 
1. Alabama (60) 4-0 1,252 2. Southern Cal (1) 4-0 1,127 3. Texas 4-0 1,08B 4. Pittsburgh (1) 4-0 1,087 5. UCLA (1) 4-0 991 6. Georgia 4-0 B96 7. Notre Dame 3-0 882 8. North Carolina 4-0 731 9. Ohio State 3-1 705 10. Nebraska 3-1 635 11. Florida State 4-1 609 12. Oklahoma 2-1 563 13. Miami, Fla. 4-0 519 14. Penn State 3-1 424 15. Arkansas 3-1 353 16. Stanford 4-1 351 17. South Carolina 4-1 323 18. Baylor 4-0 252 19. Missouri 3-1 205 20. Southern Methodist 4-0 66 

Golf 

ND INVITATIONAL 1. Purdue-372 2. Notre Dame-3B5 
3. (tie) DePaul and Dayton 
Individual Champion: Jay Smith -Purdue 
available for: 

• 
·Electrical Engineers 

• 
Physicists 


• 
Chemical Engineers 


We'll be interviewing on campus 
See your placement office for more information. 
P.O. Box 20903 Phoenix~ AZ 85036 
An Equal Opportunity/ Affirmative Action Employer 

Interhall 
CROSS COUNTRY 
I. Dave Maley (13:1B)-Morris­sey 
2. 
Dan Shannon-Morrissey 

3. 
Mike Gillespie-Morrissey 

4. 
Tim Mclean-St. Ed's 

5. 
Tim Hartigan-Morrlssey 

6. 
Bill Cavlmarano-Zahm 7. Joe Kenny-011-Campus 


B. Paul Chludzinski-H.C. 
9. 
John Brassii-St. Ed's 

10. 
Ted Guttman-Keenan 


Team Champion: Morrissey 


Transactions 
BASEBALL 
NEW YORK METS-Signed Joe Torre, manager. to a new two-year contract. 
SAN DIEGO PADRES­Named Frank Howard, former Washington Senators outfield­er, manager. 
BASKETBALL BOSTON CELTICS-Signed Nate Archibald, guard. 
WASHINGTON BULLETS­Named Don Moran a part-time assistant coach. 
FOOTBALL 
CHICAGO BEARS-Activat­ed Roland Harper, fullback. Placed Mike Cobb, tight end, on the Injured n~o~erved list. 
HOCKEY 
N.Y. ISLANDERS-Traded Ri­chard Brodeur, goaltender, to the Vancouver Canucks for uncisclosed future considera­tions. 

fill MOTOROLA
V SEMICONDUCTOR GROUP 


Baseball 

American league National LeagueE11t East 
w L Pet GB w L Pet. GB 
New York 103 59 .636 Philadelphia 91 71 .562 Baltimore 100 62 .617 3 Montreal 90 72 .556 1 Milwaukee 86 76 .531 17 Pittsburgh • B3 79 .512 8 Boston 83 77 .519 19 St. Louis 74 88 .457 17 Detroit B4 7B .519 19 New York 67 95 .414 24 Cleveland 79 B1 .494 23 Chicago 64 98 .395 27' Toronto 67 95 .414 36 West 
West Houston 93 70 .571 Kansas City 97 65 .599 Los Angeles 92 71 .564 1 Oakland B3 79 .512 14 Cincinnati 89 73 .549 3Y2 Minnesota 77 84 .47B 19Y2 Atlanta 81 80 .503 11 Texas 76 85 .472 20V2 San Francisco 75 B6 .466 17 Chicago 70 90 .438 26 San Diego 73 89 .451 19Y2 California 65 95 .406 31 Yesterday's Game Seattle 59 103 .364 3B Houston 7, Los Angeles 1 
END REGULAR SEASON 



Student Legal Services 

ASSN 9-4:30  


BASEMENT NOTRE DAME 
LAW SCHOOL 


LEGAL AID AND DEPENDENT RoomB-12 283-7795 
t----othertimes by appointment --......j 
TechnologyOne step ahead 
Our 20120 foresight has made us the leader in semiconductor technology. If you have that kind of vision1 you can help advance that technology even further. 
You'll find outstanding opportunities in Discrete1 Bipolar and MOS Technology 

There's no

at Motorola. Positions in Design1 Wafer Processing1 Product Engineering~ R & D) beHer placeApplications~ and Device Engineering are 

to start. 

• 
Materials Science 

• 
Metallurgists 




The Observer Tuesday,_October 7, 1980 -page 10 
Grandson John 



Another Coach Rockne~ Sports Briefs ____, 

J 
by George Stroue AP Sports Writer 

COLUMBUS, OHIO-Another Rockne is coaching football. 
And already John Rockne, in his first head coaching job, seems to be working miracles, as his illustrious grandfather, the late Knute Rockne, did at ;\J'otre Dame. 
"We weren't supposed to win any ofour games this year," said Rockne about his first team at Jonathan Alder High School. 
The school 20 miles north­
west of Columbus has won 
three ofits first six games after a 
2-6-2 season in 1979. 

Young Rockne never met his 
famous coaching relative. 
Knute Rockne was killed in a 
plane crash in I931, 18 years 
before John was born. 

In I 3 Notre Dame seasons, 
his teams l.ost I 2 of 122 games 
for a winning percentage of 
.881. I 

"My dad, Jack, was only six 
years old when it happened," 
said the Ohio high school coach 
by telephone. "He doesn't 
remember him much, either. I 
go talk to old-timers who knew 
him. You get goose bumps and 
chills listening to them tell 
about my grandfather." 

Young Rockne has his own 
coaching philosphies. 

"I' . If.. h d 
m JUSt myse , e sai , 
"but I imagine since he's my 
grandfather, there's got to be 
some ofhim in me somewhere. 
"I try to find something good 
about what every kid does in 
practice. We try to accomplish 
a family atmosphere. I believe 
very strongly in discipline. I 
don't think it's been that strong 
here. 
"We were supposed to be0-6, 
But I hate to lose. Our kids are 
excited. They believe in them­
selves now." 
Alder's players didn't know 
they had a celebrity in their 
midst when they opened
practice 
"They thought I was just 
another guy on the road," re­
calledJohn Rockne. "But when 
the media started coming a­
round, they found out in a 
hurry. They like it." 
Young Rockne did not miss a 
Notre Dame home game for 14 
years while he was growing up in 
South Bend. "Then I was 
drafted," he said. 
He played quarterback at 
Riley High School in South 
Bend and at Northeast 
Oklahoma Junior College for 
two years before a shoulder 
injury short-circuited his ca­
reer. 
He served as an assistant coach at his alma mater, at .Central State University in 
•...............•.............•..................•.•.......•....•.•.
. .

. 
()()ll~t f()l"t?t~ flilJI§cletl lll"lit~§ rn«?tlll" ()aJ() ()Ill
., _______________,
··················································--··············· 
t Late·night excitement ! ! ! l 
I Do you think today's paper looks neat? 1 I Do you hate today's paper • I I and want to change it? IIHyou answered yes to either of these questionsI I you too can be a design assistant I \ Call John or Ryan at 8661 1 

~---------------' 
WANT CHANGES? 
YOUR Student Government Needs YOUR Helpl 
Pass the new constitution: Vote "YES" on October 9 
OPEN FORUM On New Constitution 
7:30 p.m~-wednesday in Walsh Hall 
COME FIND OUT WHAT ITS ABOUTI 
, . •
Oklahoma, and at Murray State University and Campbell County High School in Kentucky before the Alder job opened. 
"I had made up my-mind to be a head coach and I wanted to get into Ohio. They take their football more seriously in Ohio than Kentucky," he said. 
Rockne has two infant sons, John Thomas and Gary Michael. 
"I call them Little Rock I and 
Little Rock II " said the coach 
perhaps mindful of his family'~ 
proud heritage. 


============ 
• • . SMC 
[continued from page 12] 

who took the match 6-3, 5-7, 6­2. 
After losses to both Central and Western Michigan on Saturday, the St. Mary's ledger now stands at 2-3. Oakman's crewwillnotplayagain until the Division III state tournament beginning October 18th. 
"DePauw will be our toughest competition in the tourney," noted Oakman. "We lost to them earlier this season, but the match could have gone either way. We're looking for­ward to facing them again in states." 
• •.. Bears 
[continued from page 11] 

On the next play, Williams hit Jimmie Giles with what appeared to be a 12-yard TD pass, but center Steve Wilson 
was  flagged  for  holding.  
Another  holding  penalty,  
against guard Greg  Roberts,  

moved the Bucs back to the Chicago 32. Williams missed on two passes before Garo Yepremian tried a 49-yard field goal which was blocked by Page. 
With 5 1/2 minutes left to play, Williams was sacked by Page and left the game. 
The shutout was the third in the last three years admini­stered by the Bears to the Buccaneers. Chicago shut out Tampa Bay 10-0 in 1977 and again 14-0 last December. 
Phipps finished 10-for-21 for 110 yards and Williams was 9­for-28 for 89 yards. 
Hempel presents 

lectures 

Protessor Carl Hempel, a noted philosopher of science now at the University of Pittsburgh, will present three lectures during the week ofOct. 6 at the University of Notre Dame's Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Born near Berlin in 1905, Hempel worked with an in­fluential group ofphilosophers known as "The Vienna Circle" before coming to the United States in the 1930's. 
_ 


Ski team to meet 
There will be a meeting of the Notre Dame ski team this evening in room 2-D of Lafortune beginning at 7:30. Members and other interested people should plan to attend. 

Sailing team finishes 4th 
The Notre Dame sailing team, currently ranked 19th in the nation,finished fourth at the Michigan Inters~:ctional Championships this weekend in the 12-team field. In the "A" division, Irish skipper Phil Reynolds placed fifth with Marguarita Cintra as crew. Skipper'Greg Fisher finished fifth in "B" division competition with Ctrol Silvaas crew. 

Spectarular Bid to stud 
NEW YORK-:-Spectacular Bid's outstanding career came to an abrupt halt amid controversy Saturday,less than two hours before he was to make his next-to-last start in the $500,000 Jockey Club Gold Cup at BelmontPark. . 
Not only did trainer Bud Delpannounce that the 4-year­oldgray colt had been scratchedbecause he wasn't "100 percent"fit, but he also saidSpectacular Bid would not raceagain. 
.spec~acu.lar Bid,. the world's top thoroughbred money­
wmnenn htstory wtth earnings of$2, 78 I ,607, will go to stud 
at Spendthrift Farm in Kentucky Nov. 1. 

Carter-Player of the Week 
CHICAGO (AP)-Tailback Phil Carter of Notre Dame has been selected Mi9west Player of the Week on offense for his outstanding performance in Saturday's 26-21 victory over Michigan State. 
Carter, a 5-10, 193-pound sophomore from Tacoma, Wash., gained 254 yards in 40 carries, one yard short of the Irish record set by Vagas Ferguson. 
Actually, Carter had gained 256 yards when cornerback Van Williams knocked him for a two-yard loss and out ofthe contest with a bruised thigh. 
''I'm only a sophomore, I've got ime for records," said Carter who nevertheless made the record book by joining George Gipp, Marchy Schwartz and Neil Worden as the only Notre Dame backs to rush for more than 100 yards in three .;uccessive games. 
Water polo club aims for playoff spot 
~Y Armand Kornfeld Sports Writer 
The water polo club will 
travel to Loyola of Chicago 
thisweekend aiming to keep its 
playoff hopes alive. 
The Irish will play four games 
during the two-day tournament 
andwill remain in contention 
for the conference title if they 
can wintwo ofthe four. Itwill be 
no easy task, however, as 
the opposition will include 
Kentucky, the powerhouse of 
the Midwest, and Brown, the 
class of the East. 
Mike Corbisiero, the club 
president, remains optimistic 
nevertheless."I think we at least 
will beat Iowa State and 
Southern Illinois.Kentucky 
andBrownareawesome, but we 
could pull an upset." 
Corbisiero bases his outlook 
on the club's performance this 
past weekend at Ohio State. 
The Irish opened the tourney 
with a 13-5 victory over 
Cleveland State, but followed 
with three successive defeats. 
One of the losses was to 
Kentucky,however, and t:te 
other two games went down to 
the wire with Michigan and . Ohio State. 
"For a four-week-old pro gram I thought we played very well."he added."We definitely surprised a lot of people, e­specially Ohio State, who thought they could just come out and destroy us.We could have just as easily gone 3-1 instead of 1-3." 
The Irish were also presented with several pleasantsurprises as three younger players turned in outstanding performances. Junior Pat McDivitt and freshmenJohn Smith and Chris Packer aided the Irish causeand helped generate early hope for next year. 
Hunter speaks tonight at Grace 
Business law professor and Notre Dame soccer coach Rich Hunter will speak tonight in Grace Hall pit at 10 p.m. Hunter plans to discuss the Legal Environment at Notre Dame. All those interested are welcome to attend. 
~ ... _;t • 
" ~--~~~ --··~ ' 
·=--·t:.f:i;~. 


-------------I 
I I 
Tuesday, October 1, 19so -page 11
The Observer 
-
Bay 27 on the running ofWalter up Thomas' 29-yard field goalCHICAGO (AP)-Quarter­Chicagoa 3-0 halftime lead. 
Payton before Thomas booted with 6:45 left in the game tobackMike Phipps rolled to Phipps completed passes of his 44-yard field goal. give the Bears a 16-0 lead. 
hisright for five yards and his 21 yards to Bob Fisher and 13

Brutal 
The victory broke a two­The Bears' final score was setfirsttouchdown rushing in six yards to James Scott to set up game losing streak for the Bears up when Page intercepted ayears, then sneaked for another the field goal. Together, the and left both teams with 2-3 Chuck Fusina pass on thetouchdownin the final minute two teams managed only 1 7 3 
Bears records as the Buccaneers suf­Tampa Bay one. Phippsofplay, and Bob Thomas net yards in the first half. fered their third-straight loss. sneaked across on the next play.
booted field goals of 30, 44 and The Bears came to life in the 29 yards last night to lead the second halfwhen a 39-yard punt 
Early in the fourth quarter, Phipps fumbled and Dewey Payton finished with 133
Chicago Bears to a 23-0 victory by Parsons was downed on the
beat 
Selmon recovered on the yards in 28 carries for only hisover the Tampa Bay Bucs'; two by forfller Notre Chicago 23-yard line to give the third career 100-yard gameBuccaneers. Dame receiver Kris Haines.The Bucs an excellent scoring against the Buccaneers. It alsoUntil Phipps scored his Bucs were forced to punt back chance. was Payton's 36th 100-yardBuccaneers touchdown to give the Bears a and Phipps hit Brian But quarterback Doug game in the National Football
10-0 lead midway in the third Baschnagelwith a 37-yard pass television Williams, sacked twice earlier League.
quarter,a national tothe Tampa Bay five before audience was all but lulled to he rolled to his right and by Dan Hampton, was hit by Late in the first half, Tampa

badly 
James Osborne and fumbled Bay's Gary Davis returned a
sleep by two inept offenses. • rambledinto the end zone for The first half was a punting his firstTD by rushing since with Alan Page recovering for kickoff to the Bucs' 44. The Chicago on the 21. Bucs drove to the Chicago 13
duel between Chicago's Bob 1974, when he was with Parsons and Tampa Bay's Tom Cleveland. Payton, held to only 11 yards and on a fourth-and-one, rushing in the first half, then Williams sneaked to the 12 for a 
Blanchard, interrupted only by The next time the Bears Thomas' 30-yard field goal in gained possession, they moved spearheaded a drive by carrying irst down. eight times for 50 yards to set [continued on page 10]
the second quarter to give from their own40 to the Tampa 
Classifieds ­
NEED 5 MIAMI GA'S, PREFERABLY AS 
BETH HACKm IS THE BEST 
-

•oveRSEAs JOBS: Summer/year MANY TOGETHER AS POSSIBLE. CALL CIRCULATION MANAGER 
Private, 10 min. from N.D.. two WILLING to pay $100 lor 2 MIAMIround Europe, S.Amer., Aullralla, JIM 277·3575 THE OIISEI!VEI! HAS EVER HADIHIroom•. kllcheneHe, •hower, private G.A. tickets, please call JAY-4586Alia. Allllelds $500-$1200 monthly. 
lEST WISHES. EX.CII!CULATION MANAGER 

Expen-pold. Sightseeing_ Free entrance, $45 a week, uHHIIes paid. Help! Need manY GA~ llx. 
Call 21111·0955 needed six Alabama tickets, will Calhy 7927
Into. Wrlle: IJC, Box 52·1N 4, Corona 
. --------,--~ :_.--;-·-f':-.--­
pay huge bills. caU Joe 1121Del Mar, CA. 92625. 

WANTED ., 
FATHER GRIF: NHded: 4 QA's or •ludenta.lllr lor 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY. MAY YOUI DAY 

SPECIAL SALE on aapsychotogyand INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS TaU blonde needs just one Miami game. Will bUV sepotalely. 
liE UNFETTERED IV WALLS. 

IOClalo<Jy books, and spector RINGS. Men's$35 · $15 and up. Free Alabama He. Call Jamy 1413. CaB Jim 232·0902. 
RYAN 

selection atFIIEE NEWlOOKS(aile to house calli. 255-2402. ------------·-· 
• -:----~-J';.,._:_ ----~­
NEEDED DESPERATELY-2 ARMY

-"->· 1000's ol ,_and ulllld NEED 4 STU OR GA nx fOI MIAMI lellle • ~tty: 
boob. Clleck u. llrll and 10V11 $. College Sl\ldenll: Earn while you GA's. CaR Ken 277·8890. john 3654 
Too !lor? Too cOld? Don't Ulre the AIIO New YOfk TlrMIand magazines. team. Hours flexible. Col 291·1661 
mulk:? Too llow'I...TOUGHI 

lor Interview. NEEDED: 2 GA Miami tbt Call Mike
~a's looks, 937 South lend I need 4 or 5 Go's lor lhe lltlaml 
YaurDriwer 

..
1714.

Ave. -Eddy. 233-2342. game Call S!Qney at 839' ~ 
f .._

NEED RIDE TOCHICAGO O'HARE FOR 
----------!.-.._. ---~-·---Marge Kruae, Mom of6 Oomers.l•
Need ten GA Hx lor Miami. Coli

IIREAK. CALL MARY FRAN (7992).
ATTENOON D.C. CLUIIII DUE TO A Need GA fix lor Miami. WID paylop 29 years old again today. (Well. ­
Moll at 1583

MISTAKE IN THE NEWSLETTER, WE WILL $$$. Call betw~ten 6 a 8 p.m. 234· 
won't tell II you don't.) Happy HAVE ANOTHER OCTOIIER IR£AK BUS NEED RIDE TO HOUSTON FOR OCT. 5782 and aile lor Tam. 
lllrlhdayt

III!EAK CALL JOHN 3436 NEED 3 TICKETS -STUDENT ORSIGN-UP OcTOIER 7 FI!OM 7:30 TO 
love,
G.A. -FOil MIAMI -259-1250 

MaryBUS LEAVES ON FIIIDAY, OCT 17 AT Call John MB5. 
8:30 p.m. IN WOI!TUNE l018Y. THE Need 4 GA's tar lhlt Miami game. 
RIDE NEEDED TO NEW YORK. NEW 
Margaret
I NEED 2 GA'S AND 1 STUDENT TICKET

11:00 p.m. FI!OM liiii!ARY CIRCLE. JERSEY, 01! CONNECTICUT FOil 
Charle• I!OUND TRIP $60 ONE WAY $30. YOU NEED ADJACENT MIAMI GA'S.
OCTOBER BREAK. WILL SHARE DRIVING TO MIAMI GAMEA. MONEY IS NO OBJECT PLEASE CALL TIM AT 2129
AND OTHER EXPENSES. CALL JIM 1523 
MUST PAY AT THE SIGN·UP. NO CALL PHIL AT 1863 01! 1850. 
REFUNDSII FOil MORE INFO CALL SENIOI!S...IILUE SKIES...WHITE SAND...
NEED 2 ARIZONA TICKETS. 4006-SMC

MIKE AT t1'1100. NEEDED: 2 GA MIAMI TICKETS. Call CRYSTAL CLEAR WATER...GAMBLING._ 
Ride to Seallle Oct. 17. Laura 277­Mike 8714. 
NASSAU, THE BAHAMAS...OCT 19·25. 
NEED 4 MIAMI GA TIX CAll MARY

WORlD'S FINEST SPOiliNG KNIVES, 8646. 
ll!AVEL NIGHT OCT 13.
2M·0233

INCI!EDIBL Y SHARP, LIFETIME HELP I NEED 5 GA'S FOR THE MIAMI 
GUARANTEED CALL t111555 RIDERS NEEDED TO N.Y.C./L.I. AREA GAME OCT 11 PLEASE CALLCOLLEEN #2, Clear blue sides, sand, while­
Need 2 GA football tickets

FOR OCT. BREAK. LEAVING WED. NITE 4-1-4539 
capped waves and o Plna Colada
lor any game! Call 4·1-4863

HEY SENIORS, JUNIORS. ARE YOU 10/15. CALL Al 3462 
lor me, while lor you a Zombie! "1 ENGAGED? INTERESTED IN STARTING I need lots of student or GA Miami
01! ADDING TO YOUR HOPECHEST? I DESPEI!ATELY need lo buy or 
PERSONALS 
Be awarel Come to the MOCKtlx. Call Chuckles at 3064.

PHONE t111555 borrow o copy ol Construction, Mock ot
DEBATE! representatives Principles, Materials and Methods 
TUTORS NEEDED: 1. English tutor 
Carter, Reagan, and Anderson. MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student by Olin et. al. Call Deirdre at 6903, 
I NEED ONE TICKET TO MIAMI GAME needed lor woman from Hong Tuesday, Oct. 7 at 7 p.m. InSTUDENT OR G.A. CALL ED AT 8651 Kong. 2. High school Freshman,loans $20·$200. One percent 351 Badin. 
Carroll Hall (smc)

general tutoring. 3. For grade
lntere•t. Due In 30 days. One day DESPERATELY NEEDS MIAMI GA'S. school, Math and Reading. Contact
wall. Open M·F 11:30·12:30. Fln.:.l Need ride to Mossachussells or 
Concerned about the South

DO NOT HAVE TO BE TOGETHER. CALL Volunteer Services, 7308.
application doy before break Is Connecticut area lor Oct Break. 
Bend -ND llluallon?? Come talk
1945.

Oct. 16. Call Mike, 1780. 
to the man In charge. South Bend's MAYOR PARENT TO SPEAK AT SMC ONLY 10 DAYS TILL CANADAIIIII! 

Need ride to PIHsburgh Area lor Need two llx tor Miami. Will pay$$. 
tittle theater Wednelday. October

WILL DO TYPING. NEAT, ACCURATE,
LOST/FOUNl) 
break. Call Susan 284-5369. Call Tom 3362 II, at 7:30 p.m.
EXPERIENCED. REASONABLE JIATES. 
CALL: 287·5162.
Desperately need one GA Miami 
Dive Into the political scene. 
lie. Please coli 30711.

FOR SALE 
Come meet the people Involved... 

SMC Class of '82 presents 2nd Brademas, Parent and more. 
• Loll: Maroon sweatJockel aa set I will pay top $ lor 2 GA Army fix lor annual "HAPPY HAYRIDE" Friday 
Political Week '110 Oct. 6·10. Watch of key• behind the ACC on 9/30. II FOR SALE: 1975 AMC HORNET, Mom and Dad. Call Paul 8506. October 10th 4:30-9:30 tickets on 
lor IIIII found , please call Shelly (67113). 52,000 MILES, STANDARD, RADIO, sole In all dining halls this week 
TINTED GLASS, EXCELLENT CONDITION DESPEI!ATELY NEED TIX FOil MIAMI. 
Cindy Ferber, LOST: St. Christopher's Medal on AND MILEAGE, STEEL-BELTED RADIALS CAll JEFF 232-0902 Paul, Heather, Sean , Nicole, Chris, 
Hope everyone called you at Cartier Field, Tuelday night. Great AND SNOWS. Jean, Pat and Bob. Thanks so much 
8029 and wished you o HappySentimental Value: II round, ptea1e 277·3997, JIM. DESPERATE: Need 2 GA fiX to Mlaml lor all your hard work. I'm sure you 
tllrthdoy ye1terday. If not maybe

call Dan, 1629. I!EWAI!Df Willing to poy. Coli 287-6005 will off do just wonderful tonight you win get a lew hugs and klsse• 
AUTHENnc OLYMPIC 1910 WARMUP evenings. and every night. Good luck! 
today!

LOST: Old while and yellow gold SUIT FOil SALE OF A LIMITED 4000 Love, 
fan~ 

ring by my mom Michigan week· MANUFACTURED FOR THE ENTIRE Help. Need 3 MIAMI GA's. Coli Jim Mary Kay and LIIO 
end. Probablyat Libraryor Bookstore. UNITED STATES. BEAUTIFUL RED. WHITE 8727 
IIRUUUUUlll/UUt .I'!!! Great sentimental value. Call Paul AND BLUE VELOUR MATERIAL. MORE From one New Yorker to another, 
l!lehle at 6111 or 232·1545. INFO: SEND NAME AND NUMBER TO Need 4 or 5 GA and 1 student Miami Try your luck before going to Vegas 
Ketti Flint (olio• Flint-lace)with lew rolls
P.O. BOX 621, NOTJIE DAME. STATE tickets. Coli Mike 1207. o or the dice In a Thankl a lot tor lhe cookies! They LOST: Pair of brown frame glassesIn SIZE. ONLY $150. backgammon rematch -your 
were great. With baking like that. 

o brown case. Two weeki ago near Need MIAMI student and GA tickets. place or mine. 
you'll snag o husband before you green lleld. Coli 234·1361 YES llx-2 nrst row floor Mike 2117• Many BUCKS could be Involved. Spoiled Brat 
know II. That 11 what you're here lor, 0160 alter 6 PM Coli Bob 1066 
Isn't II? 

FOUND: WOMAN'S GOLD WATER r lhlt IIEAST...a legend In hisown pants! 
Guess who? BETWEEN SOUTH DINING HAll AND Far sale 71 Mercury, runs well, air, NEED 1·4 MIAMI GA TICKETS. WILL -------..--DfllON. GO TO LOST a FOUND IN power, some rust, 75000 miles, PAY TOP$$. 277-&727 Thanks to everyone who made my 
Mark Pikula and Jim Hartnell-­ADMINISTRATION IILDG. PLEASE $380. Call 277·5916, 6-9 p.m. Thonkl lor the great lime at
20th birthday special. Special 
HAVE$$$. NEED 2 GA MIAMI TICKETSIII !honks to those taxes and wild •n·
DESCI!IIIE. 
Michigan Stalefl CALL TIM 1633 ctazy guys at my "Football pictures 
Goote and popcorn" party. I loved the 
P.S. I am still bummed about Pete NEED STUDENT MIAMI TICKETS CALL cake and the card. (limitedEdition, 
TICKETS 

Rose. and Chuck Tonner Is greallDAVID 2117·69116 poster size cople1 ollhe photo will 
be available lOOn from Klnaetlo 
FOR RENT 
Private bungalow, two bedroom, 
Need o pair ol Miami GA tickets Photo Corp.)
•love, refrigerator, carpeted. 288· Need lour Miami GA llx. Call Stan THE BOSS IS BACKlit Call Eric 1105 Love you all
0955 1942 THE BOSS IS BACKIII and I mean II. 
THE BOSS IS BACKIII llx needed tor arizona game $$ now get outa here!
MUST HAVE 4 ARMY G.A. TICKETS!! 
--------·------­

FOR I!ENT·CLEAN ONE-IIEDI!OOM 
jim ·11700 ScoH the Bizarnil
CALL JIM 277·886" 3 MORE DAYS-TILL WE HERE THE 
apartment close to campus. Large 
GOSPEl ACCORDING TO BI!UCEI

enough !Qr two. $155 plus utilities. 
NeedGA or1ludenttickets torARMY NEED 4 GA TIX TO MIAMI. CALL Would you be Interested In Contact Ron at Pandora's Bookl, game, or I CAN'T go hamel Call Sue LANCE. 277·3685. 
exchanging work lor living quarfell? With o typo llkelhat, howcould any233-2342. 
4349 SMC. 
Graduate student or couple needed sell-respecting Bruce make a NEED GA AND STUDENT TIX FOR 
at First United Methodist Church. correction? Alles lhe Quadrllek2room opl. $50 mo. Near.233·1329. Need three tickets lor the Miami MIAMI. CALL DAN AT 11194 
Contact Volunt-Service•. 7308. Bruce smugly. game. Call Susan of 277·45911 
...... 



,r__ ' 
l Tuesday , October 7, 1980 -page 12 
Wm Wt1d West 
Astros tum Dodgers blue 
by jack Stevenson Cabell then stole second as Joe third and Rick Monday's single. AP Sports Writer Morgan struck out. Niekro, 20-12, got out of a Jose Cruz hit a grounder to bases-loaded jam in the sixth 
LOS ANGELES-The Mickey Hatcher at third and when he got Derrel Thomas to Houston Astros won their first Hatcher's throw home was fly out. Neikro wound up with divisional title in their 19-year dropped by catcher Joe six strikeouts and two walks. history yesterday, routing the Ferguson for an error, allowing The game was delayed for Los Angeles Dodgers 7-1 in a Puhl to score and advancing about two minutes in the bot­playoff for the National League Cabell to third. tom of the fourth when plate West championship behind]oe Cesar Cedeno then scored umpire Doug Harvey pulled the Niekro's six-hitter. Cabell with an infield ground­Astros off the field in order to 
Art Howe collected three hits out for the second run of the stop fans from throwing objects for the Astros -a home run inning. from the stands.
-
and two singles -and drove in In the third, Howe hit his four runs as Niekro became a lOth home run, a two-run shot, 20-game winner for the second scoring Cesar Cedeno, who had year in a row. singled. Belles come 
The Astros' victory, coming The Astros opened their lead after three straight one-run to 7-0 with three runs in the losses to the Dodgers that fourth off three Dodger re­
through in

forced the playoffs, advanced lievers. After loading the bases them to the NL championship on two walks and a bunt single series against the Philadelphia by Puhl, Cruz hit a sacrifice fly Phillies starting tonight. to center. A walk to Cedeno 
doubles 

The Astros opened quickly reloaded the bases and Howe with two unearned runs in the bounced a single to center to 
by Kelly Sullivan

first inning off Dave Goltz, 7-score two more runs. 
Women's Sports Editor
11. Leadoff batter Terry Puhl The Dodgers came back with reached first on Davey Lopes' a run in the bottom of the Trailing 4-2 after singleserror at second and advanced to fourth on Dusty Baker's single, competition, St. Mary's cap­third on Enos Cabell's single. a throwing error ~y Cabell at tured all three doubles matches to defeat a visiting Butlersquad, 5-4 in tennis action yesterday. 
"All our doubles teams played super," said Belles' coach Ginger Oakman. "They decided the match for us. I was 
by Dave Irwin 6-1, came back to defeat "We really could have won Senior Mike Jamieson paced very pleased with their per­
Diamond men take Bradley tourney 
formance."

Bradley and then pounded St. three games," Gallo said. "Bob the Irish victory over Bradley
Sports Writer 

Louis University, 11-4. Bartlett pitched as good a game with two hits and four RBI. The Belles' top duo of Patsy 
Coash and Maureen O'Brien
"I think we've started·to show as I've seen. He had great stuff." Junior Dan Szajko doubled in
Notre Dame's baseball team 
captured the Bradley people we can play," Head Indiana State, who gives out two runs. Junior Scott Siler and had little trouble in downing its Invitational over the weekend Coach Larry Gallo said. "We 1 3 scholarships compared to lams each singled in a run. opposition,6-2, 6-3. Also im­came back after our first loss Notre Dame's four, avenged a Sophomore Rick Chryst, junior pressive for St. Mary's were the
by winning two of three games. 
and then came from behind in doubleheader defeat to the Tim Ambrey, and senior Pat doubles teams of AnnThe Irish tied Bradley with a 2-1 the second game to win. That Irish earlier this year. Andrews each had two hits. Huber/Mary Soergel andrecord and were awarded first shows me that we have a-lot of Bartlett, a senior, didn't give The Irish showed improved Maureen O'Brien/Jan Dzonch.
place by virtue of their 12-4 Both pairs won their rounds in
character and pride." up an earned run while lowering base running aginst Bradley,
victory over Bradley in the 
round-robin tournament. The Irish made four errors, his earned run average to 1.58 stealing eight bases (Szajko and straight sets. two that lead to five runs in one in 17 innings. Senior George lams each stole three) and The contest with Butler was a 
The Irish, who dropped their 
inning when there were two lams was 2-for-2 and drove in having no one caught stealing. continuation of a match 
opening game to Indiana State, 
outs, against Indiana State. the lone Irish run. Steve Gallinaro pitched 2 2/3 scheduled last week, but inter­innings of shutout relief. rupted by rain. Szajko and Andrews led the In singles play, Coash upped
The Bottom Ten 
Irish past St. Louis. Andrews her duals record to a perfect 5-0 drove in three runs on two 
for the season. The talented singles while Szajko squeezed in sophomore defeated her op­
one run and drove in two more ponent §-0, 6-1 despite a sore with a single. wrist that hampered her play in Belview-StratfordHotel in Philadelphia. Junior Brian Smith pitched the Central Michigan by Skip Desjardin and Ron Simari Incidentally, here are the rankings: shutout ball for six innings Tournament last weekend. In 
Bummer Awards Banquet­
1) Colorado (0-4)-Buffalo ineptness before having problems in the that competition, Coash suf­
The Bottom Ten voters gathered for another reached new peaks in giving up 875 total yards seventh. fered the first loss ofher college round of those "other" light beers at their mid­and 82 points. Notre Dame will take a 7-4 career, falling to Western season conference, which was held this year 2) Northwestern (0-5)-Should've called Bill record to Valparaiso Friday for Michigan's top player. Her dual before the Air Force-Yale classic in Colorado Murray for advice on handling Gophers. a doubleheader starting at 2 record remains unaffected by 
r Springs.As is the custom, the mid-year awards 3) Vanderbilt (0-4)-This week they were p.m. The second annual alumni the tournament play, however. ~ were announced.The competition was fierce, if really "off." game is scheduled for Saturday The only other singles victory
, 
dismal, and the winnersare as follows: 4) California (0-4)-STILL eligible for the at 9 a.m. Rich Gonski, the last was posted by Anne Huber, The "Muhammad-Ali-Quit-While-You're-Rose Bowl. baseball all-American ( 1964) playing the number five slot,' I head Award"went to Phil Carter ofNotre Dame. 5) Air Force (0-4-1)-Accomplished some­for Notre Dame, is among [continued on page 10] 
By losing threeyards on his final carry this week, thing very few teams have in losing to Yale. those scheduled to play.~ he missed setting the school's single game 6) TCU (0-4)-The Horned ·Frogs leap into rushing record. the pollfor the first time this season. The "Santa Claus Award" went to LSU, who 7) The City of Cincinnati (1-8)-These days,
I 
fumbled 12 times in beating Florida this week. it's hard to tell the Bearcats from the Bengals. 
The "A-Merry-Christmas-To-You-Too 8) William and Mary (0-5)-Would be better Award" was presented to Nebraska quarterback if they had nine more players. JeffQuinn, who fumbled on the Florida State 10-9) Penn (1-2)-Wins over Columbia don't yard line with 10 seconds left in the game. affect the Bottom Ten rankings. 
The "Norman-Vincent-Peale-Positive-10) Princeton (0-3)-Were awesome in their Thinking Award"went to Florida coach Charlie eighth straight loss to Brown. Pell, who said "I wantrriy players to think like an Also receiving votes: 85-year-old man whomarries a 25-year-old girl Oklahoma (2-1)-Gave up 42 points to and buys a five bedroom house near an Colorado. elementary school." Bottom Ten voters (0-1)-We should've 
The coveted "Heimlich Maneuver Award" stayed out of the fight game. went to the Montreal Expos, unanimously. Georgia Tech (1-4)-Deepest penetration 
In addition to the awards ceremony and a against North Carolinawas mid-field. lavish sandwich buffet, the voters were treated Quote of the Week: to entertainment consisting of an eloquent /Sports Illustrated writer Douglas S. Looney Shakespeare reading by Bert Parks and Soupy on Colorado coach Chuck Fairbanks: "He has Sales. Plans were also made for the year-end had the world's only successful charisma by-pass bash, when the voters will convene at the operation." 









