
~ -----­
_,,,Coffeehouse -page 3 
VOL. XV, NO. 41 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER IS, 1980
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
NewNDSG constttutton 

passes 
The student body has passed the new constitution for the Student Government in one of the largest voter turnouts in the last three years. 
With the passage of the new constitution, the main active body of the Student Govern ·ment will he the Student Senate. The Student Senate will consist of nineteen members and will replace the former Board of Commissioners. 
The members of the Board of Commissioners will remain as members ofthe Senate. Added to this are four members from the Hall Presidents Council, all the class presidents, another off­campus representative, and four representatives from four pro­posed campus districts. The four districts have been chosen so that they are similar in population and location. 
"The next step is to take this to the Board of Trustees," said Student Body President Paul Riehle. He is hoping that the Trustees will grant the Senate some legislative powers so that it may accomplish more than the existing legislation has. Riehle succinctly stated, "Man, I'm psyched." 
The first order ofbusiness after break will be to decide upon four representatives from the four campus districts. Riehle pro­poses to hold a meeting for inter­ested candidates and to hold campaigns during the week of November ') -12. 
After the elections the Senate will hold its first meeting tenta­tively scheduled for November 
17. The meeting will be held in an open-campus format where stu­dents can express their ideas to the Senate. Topics of consider­ation by the Senate will include a complete evaluation of dormi­tory staffs and the purchase ofan oH~campus house by the Student Government. 
The voting, conducted by Ombudsman, showed that 55 percent of the student body had voted. Of that 5S percent, 96 percent voted "yes" for the new constitution. The minimum of students required for voting on the referendum was fifty percent with at least two-thirds needed to ensure passage. 
In a dorm by dorm breakdown of the voting, P<ingborn led the 
(aJIItinued rm page 5) 
Glfathers leave offspring 
by Seth Mytlrm.r A.r.ro;iater/ Prt~r.r lr'rtler 
BANGKOK, Thailand(AP)­Asia is crowded with children searching for tJ?eir roots-Jj,>Qt~ that go back t,Hhe Uniteu Stat(•s, a country they have never seen. where they have fathers most of them will never know. 
The Amer-Asian children of 
U.S. servicemen are growing older, many of them in poverty and in societies that reject them. And they are asking who they are. 
"Only in recent years have I thoughtabout my father. I would like to know what kind ofperson he is. I would like to know where I came from," says Kim Dac Shik, a 25-year-old Korean fathered by an American. 
"I feel like killing the people who call me names," says "Tom," a half~American Thai teen-ager who was rejected for military service because he could not name his parents. "I have applied to settle in America because I think I can find more warmth the.r.e-than here." 
"I only want to meet my father 
and talk with him. I would like to 
meet his family if possible," ~ays 
Koiichi Tokashiki, 30, son of ;tn 
American Gl once stationed in 
Okinawa. 
Like many mixed-blood chil­
dren, Tokashiki does not know 
his father's name. He thinks it 
may have been something like 
Peterson and that he was a ser­
geant. "I would like to meet my 
father again, for Mothl·r is 
patiently waiting his return:· ht: 
says. 
Unless they can prove tlwir parentage, the Amer-Asians (estimates of their number range upward from 60,00()) have no claim to U.S. citizenship or aid. And even if an Amer-Asian knows his father's name, the U.S. government will not help finu him. 
In Japan, the children can claimJapanese citizenship under a law allowing them to take the nationality of their mothers, a law ironically favoring those born out of wedlock. The minority whose fitthcrs married their mothers before departing are neither Japanese nor Americans. 
Figures on the number of mixed-blood children born in Japan since World War II arc not readily available, but the A.rahi Shimhun newspaper says .3, 500 live in Okinawa alone. 
Prejudice against them in Japanese society, which empha­sizes racial and cultural homogeneity, has subsided since the days when "occupation babies" were shameful proofthat Japan lost the war. 
In Korea, an estimated 3,000 
to 8,000 Amer-Asian children 
have been born since the Korean 
(continued on ptq~e 4) Cynthia DeFazio of Farley Hall conscientiously casts a ballot in yesterday's Student Senate 'referendum. 55% of the student body participated in the election. (photo by jane Ahern.) 

McNally poll 

Poll displays conservative trends 
· By Tom jackman Executive New.r Edrtor 
Deviating little from earlier polls which. displayed the con­servative nature of this campus, ND-SMC students oppose pas-

Funeral services to be held for Fr. William Toohey 
Funeral services for Father William Toohey, C.S.C. will be 
held this afternoon at 3:30 in Sacred Heart Church. Fr. 
Theodore Hesburgh will celebrate the Liturgy and Fr. Thomas 
McNally will deliver a homily. 

Campus Ministry officiis have asked that in lieu of flowers, 
donations be giYen to the Bill Toohey Memorial Fund in care of 
the Campus Ministry Office. Contributions will be distributed 
among~t several groups to whom Toohey especially committed 
himself-Sister Marita's Primary Day School, the Holy Cross 
Justice and Peace Center, Amnesty International, and the Farm 
Labor Organizing Committee. 
sage of the Equal Rights A­mendment, oppose federal bankruptcy loans, and over­whelmingly favor the use of nuclear power: ·according to the most recent McNally Poll con­ducted for The Observer. 
Polls published recently in The Ob.rerver have shown that stu­dents here oppose abortion un­der any circumstances, and that 

Pol/favors Republican 

conservative Republica{\ Ronald Reagan is the campus choice for president, along with three other Republican candid_ates in Indiana state races. 
Of those with a preference, a surprising 52 percent of the won\en surveyed oppose passage of the ERA, only 39 percent favor the amendment, and nine percent are undecided. Among men, 48 percent oppose the ERA and 38 percent favor it. The amendment must be ratified by three more states to become a part of the U.S. Constitution. 
A huge 71 percent of those surveyed said they favor the use of nuclear power as a source of energy in the U.S., while 21 per­cent are against it and nine percent are undecided. 
Only 36 percent of those in-· terviewed favor federal loans to save large corporations from bankruptcy, such as occurred in the case of the Chrysler Corp­oration. Forty-nine percent op­pose federal aid, and 16 percent are -undecided. 
Additionally, 55 percent of those surveyed are· opposed to the decriminalization of m<lri­juana, while only 36 percent ;ue in favor of it. Thirteen percent are undecided. 

The poll surveyed 120 students selected scientifically from both campuses, and has an error mar­gin of four percent. 



News Brie/§ 
Wednesday, October 15, 1980 -page 2 
c===~========~~~~==~======================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Arrests on marijuanachargescameto125 in northern Indiana with the charging ofa 32year old Roselawn man by a state police marijuana task force project, officers said yesterday. Jerry Konuk was being held on $14,000 bond at the Newton County Jail. He was arresed Monday on charges of possession of marijuana and possession of marijuana with intent to sell. Officers said several hundred pounds ofmarijuana was recovered from Knouk's home. They said it had an estimated value of $65,000. The task force project is being conducted by the Lowell State Police post in Newton, Jasper, Starke and Pulaski counties. Marijuana grows wild in those counties because it was harvested and used for rope during the first world war. Authorities have been unable to kill it out. AP, Rensselaer, Ind. 
A U.S. Nayy amphibious force, including about 1,800 Marines, has left the Indian Ocean after a two-month cruise, the Pentagon announced yesterday. At the same time, spokesman Thomas Ross said, a big Russian amphibious warship, the Ivan Rogov, also left the Indian Ocean. The Rogov reportedly had about 400 Soviet naval infantry aboard. There was no indication whether the Marine battalion will be replaced in the Indian Ocean. The battalion, which had made a rest stop in Australia, is traveling aboard four Navy amphibious ships, now in the Soth China Sea. Currently, the Navy has 33 ships in the Indian Ocean-Arabian Sea-Persian Gulf area. The Russian mt\'Y is operating 29 ships in those waters. AP, Washington 
The Army staffsaystentativebudgetallotments for the next five years would make it impossible to catch up with the Soviet army. The staff views w.::re contained in a document appealing proposals to limit Army procurement of modern equipment through fiscal1986 to about $68 billion ­
just over half the $122 billion requested. If limited to this extent, said the report, the Army will "be unable. to achieve either the goal of qualitative equivalence with the Soviets by 198 5 or the goal of technological superiority by 1990." Pentagon spokesman Thomas Ross said of the document, "There's never been a year yet in which the services didn't ask for more than thy could get and this year is no exception." AP, Washington 
Blacks who don't vote commit an 
injustice against those who fought to protect their voting rights, says Rep. Parren Mitchell, D-Md. Mitchell, in Evansville on Monday to appeal to local blacks to cast their ballots for Sen. Bir.ch Bayh, D-Ind., is one of 17 blacks in the House. He reminded about 100 listeners at a Baptist church rally about the "freedom riders" who traveled by bus into the Deep South in the 1950s and '60s to protect the right of black people to vote. Bayh, who is seeking a record fourth term, is one of several senators across the country who have been targeted for defeat by a number of right-wing groups, including the National Conservative Political Action Committee. 
Two earlier works by Pablo Picasso have been found underneath his "Family of Saltimbanques," which the National Gallery of Art has owned since 1962, gallery officials say. X-ray analysis of the painting revealed two works long considered lost, "Circus Family," a 12-figure scene, and ··Two AcrQbats." officials said Monday. E.A. Carmean, the gallery's curatm of 20th century art, said x-ray examination of the 1904-1905 painting was conducted because two ofPicasso's contemporaries said the canvas had been repainted several times. Experts said one reason for the three-in-one painting was that Picasso was so poor in 1905 he could not afford to throw ou1 :·he canvas. AP, Washington -­

A confidential AFL/CIO poll
shows that despite labor leaders' dislike for Ronald Reagan, a 
majority of rank-and-file union members identify with many of 
the Republican nominee's conservative stances. "Those issues 
that the 'right wing' politicians have adopted as their own 
.tppear to ring responsive notes in somewhat more than one­
h,•lf of Union members," says the poll, a copy of which was 
obtained by The Associated Press. Commissioned by the AFL; 
ClO's political arm-the Committee on Political Education the 
noll found that 72 percent of union members opposed cuts in 
ddtnse spending, 65 percent favor a constitutional amend­
·-,·nt to require a balanced federal budget, 60 percent oppose 
·he Panama Canal treaties, 51 percent oppose strict controls on 
. tndguns, and 44 percent oppose legalized abortion. The ·urvey also found that by a 3-to-1 margin, union memben. .)lame government more than business for the country's economic problems. By a 2-to-1 margin, they feel there is too much government regulation of business. 
PartIy sunnyand mild today. High around 70. Partly cloudy and a little warmer tonight and tomorrow. Low tonight in the low 50s. High tomorrow in the low 70s. 
Inside Wednesday 


Who is to blame? 

For the past couple of weeks now, the "hot" issue ofoff-campus crime has scorched the lives of numerous students and residents living in the Northeast Neighborhood. People have been brutally kicked, stabbed and threatened at gun­point. Stereos, television sets, gold watches and rings have been hocked and pawned. Residents are dead-bolting their doors. And students are up in arms, literally. This is life, less than a mile from campus. 
The facts ofthe situation are grim. Fact number one: Students have shown repeatedly that they do not care whether they and their property are bruised, beaten or battered. Fact number two: The Notre Dame Administration has repeatedly shown that they do not care whether the students are bruised, beaten or battered. Fact number three: The South Bend city administration has been blamed for the gross neglect and inefficien­cies of the Notre Dame administration. 
Last week Mayor Parent held court at Saint Mary's as part ofPolitical Week. At the end of Parent's program, he gave stuqents the chance to ask questions about the crime situation. The perfect opportunity, I said to myself, for those who have been victimized recently to voice their complaints. However, only fifteen students bothered to show up­students who do not live off-campus and who have not been personally affec­ted by the crime problem. 
Where was Mark Kelley, off-campus com­
missioner?  And  Paul  
Riehle,  student  body  
president?  And  those  

students living in the Northeast Neighborhood who are purchasing guns and knives to protect themselves? For weeks, all we heard was their constant stream of crit­icism about how Mayor Parent couldn't find the time to appear at the series of off-campus crime meetings held at the beginning of the semester. Yet their absence was quite noticeable. 
Parent outlined the crime situation in detail and offered many positive suggestions on how to tackle this problem. An independent organization comprised of students and residents living in the Northeast Neighborhood bloc would have a vote in matters dealing with city issues. This organiza­tion, Parent contends, should guarantee that the Northeast Neighborhood complaints will be heard. This move remains to be seen, but it sounds like a positive step in the right direction. 
But let's not side-track from the real issues at · hand which are: the silent "closed eyes" attitude that the Notre Dame administration has adopted when dealing with off-campus living and the 
~The_Ohs.erY-er_ 
Design Editor ............. Scoop De.rigfl A.r.ri.rtcmts . .......... Kevin Korowicki Patty "the" Fox A.]. Wood Day/Night Techniciaf!s ...... Bruce Oakley /MikeJans Neurs Editor . ...... Margie Brassil Systems Technicirm ........... Bob ND Day Editor . .. Pamela Degnan Ad Design ............... .Jeanne Supplement Layout .. ........ Brian Beglane Paul Mullaney Photographer .........Jane Aher~ Guest Appearaflces. ..... The Roval Canadian Mounted Police Doc Pierce The ghost of Monday Past 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the student~ of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 

The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved. 
Pam 


Degnan 
Newr Editor 

blatant apathy and stupidity of many off-campus students. The University continually throws "in loco parentis" in our faces through its parietals, keg and party policies, so if they want to play mommy and daddy to 6,000 students, they had better be willing to provide security for those who have strayed from the homefront. 
Ten years ago, Security used to inspect off­campus housing. They used to test locks, screens and bolts on the houses and ifa house did not meet certain "safe" standards they would make sugges­tions on how to correct the situation. 
The University could, upon research, very easily post a list of "safe and adequate" housing, which they have recently inspec­ted, and would then be made available to students contemplating off-campus living. The student then has the option of accepting or rejecting the University's suggestions. It would be such a simple plan to implement-it would just warrant a little time and effort on the part of ND Security and Adminis­tration. 
And then there is the blatant apathy and stupidity of many off­campus students. Of course you are going to be beaten or robbed if you wander around the Northeast Neighborhood alone or drunk. Or both. The name of the game in this town is to be "street­wise." South Bend streets 
are not the South Quad. In order to survive, you must change your lifestyle to "city" thinking. Wake up Notre Dame. 


Observer notes 
Have you witnessed a crime which should be reported? Do you have newsworthy information which might turn into an important article? Is there something we should be covering? If so, call The Observer news department and let us know. We welcome any and all contributions from our readers-call283-7471, 8661, or 1715, 24 hours a day, Sunday through Thursday. All sources are guaranteed confidentiality. 


SUMMER PROGRAMS 

SMC -ND STUDENTS 
LONDON MAY 20-JUNE 19 
Travel in Ireland, Scotland, England and France 
ROME JUNE 15-JULY 14 

Travel in France, Germany, Italy and Switzerland . 
College courses available in Art, Business, 
Economics, Education, Government, 
History, Nursing, Italian. 
For Further Information Call: 


I 
Prof. Anthony Black Office: 284-4948 Home: 272-3726 
~~~ 


The Observer Wednesday, October 15 , 1980 -page 3 


Iranians continue heavy fighting against Iraq 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP)­
Iran's American-built jets on Tuesday bombed Baghdad for the first time in more than a week. Iraqi ground units shot their way slowly over marshy terrain in an effort to put the Iranian oil-refining city of Abadan under siege. 
Iran claimed to have J;>Ut down a Kurdish insurrection during two days of fighting along the Iran-Turkey frontier. And the Iranian Parliament was reported to have asked other Is1amic and non-aligned nations to put pressure on Iraq to end the fighting as new
I mediation efforts got under way. AP correspondent Steve K. Hindy reported from the pon­toon bridge that the Iraqis in­stalled on the Karun River last week between Khorramshahr and Abadan that the invaders appeared to have mounted a Siege of DOth cities. He reported seeing four large fires burning on one side of the river. He quoted the Iraqi commander in the area as saymg his sappers exploded the Abadan-Dezfui-Ahwaz­Tehran pipeline at those four points. The pipeline normally carries refined oil products to Tehran. Hindy said the Iraqis were clearly masters of the Khor­ramshahr-Ahwaz highway and railway on the western side of the river and the Abadan-
Ahwaz highway on the eastern 
side. He said he saw per­
sonnel carriers moving Iraqi 
troops toward the front. 
An Ira9i military com­munique s_aid 12 civilians were wounded 10 the air attack on Baghdad. A photographer in the Iraqi capital said a heavr. plume of what looked like ml smoke could be seen over the section where oil installations are located. 
Iraq's military command said its forces in the southern end of the 300-mile battlefront spread out in three directions from positions north of the embattled port city of Khor­ramshahr. 
One Iraqi tank force drove southward in the direction of the Persian Gulf in an apparent attempt to surround Abadan and complete its takeover of the vital shipping lanes of the Shatt ai-Arab waterway. 
The Shatt ai-Arab is Iraq's only route to the gulf and until the start of the war 23 days ago was the border between the two nations. Abadan is Iran's largest refining center with a capacity for handling 600,000 barrels a day. 
Another branch of the Iraqi force pushed northward to attack highwars, rail lines and an Iranian oi pipeline. The third /ush was to the east towar a highway connecting Abadan with Iran's oil fields and its tanker tieups along the gulf's eastern shore. 
GOOD TIME MUSIC ­GOOD TIME ROCK AND ROLL 

"STRAIGHT FLUSH" 
Now Available for Bookings Hall Parties Special Engagements 

Pranksters apparently felt ~he weather a bit too warmfor the statue of Call Jeff Barcus at 259-8088 Moses next to the Memorzal Ltbrary, so they dressedhim in desert garb and finger cloth. (photo by jane Ahern.) 
======~ 


Cnffeehouse idea renovates LaFortune ballroom 
Brian McFeeters Staff Reporter 

LaFortune's second floor ball­
room should be transformed 
into a coffeehouse complete 
with professional entertainment 
in the near furture, Chairman 
Phil Vanderhoff told last night's 
meeting of the Hall Presidents 
Council. He said student gov­
ernment will add $4,000 to the 
$12,000 already available for the 
renovation, which awaits ap­
proval by the Board ofTrustees. 
In other business, Flanner Hall 
President Mike Shepardson ex­
plained that a recent spree of 
robberies in the towers has per­
sauded his hall to begin locking 
all outer doors after 8 p.m. 
Other hall representatives re­
ported continuing theft prob­
lems as well, including robberies 
made by non-students holding 
'double zero' master keys. 
Vanderhoff explained that Flanner-style prevention pro­grams could only solve part of the crime program. "Statisti­
(continued on paf(e 5) 

THIS WEEK AT THE NAZZ 




Wednesday, 9 p.m. Open Staae 
Come early for a sneat'preview 
Thursday, 9 p.m. High Plains Drifters Friday, 9 p.m. 


Molly DeSchryner 
TEACHERS 
Ask a Peace Corps volunteer why she teaches deaf education in Thailand...ask another volunteer why he works as a teacher trainer in Kenya. They'll probably say they want to help people, want to use their skills, travel, learn a new language and experience another culture. Ask them: 

Reg:lster i Now at Placement Office for Interviews: Wed. and Thurs. October 29-30 

The Observer Wednesday,October 15, 1980-page4 
WASHINGTON (AP)­
After a five-month suspen­sion, Egypt and Israel formally reopened negotiations yester­day on how to give more than 1 million Palestinian Arabs a


Egypt, 

laq~er voice in determining thetr future. As the talks resumed under 
U.S. auspices, Israel offered to

Israel give the 
Palestinians living on the West Bank of the Jordan River and in Gaza a role in determining land policy in the occupied territories, diplo­
matic sources said. 
The sources also said Israel had reaffirmed that it plans no further settlements in the area other than four it previously announced it would build on 
reopen 


formal 

theWest Bank, but the issue of whether existing Israeli settle­ments may be "thickened" has not been resolved. 
The Israeli position was out­

Palestinian lined in a document brought from Jerusalem over the week­end by an Interior Ministry of­ficial, Chaim Kubersky. Ac­cording to the sources, who re­talks 
fused to be identified, it also reaffirmed the Israeli stance that no additional settlements beyond the four are con­templated. · 
U.S. officials were described as encouraged by the Isaeli stand and were said to consider 


it constructive. 
However, as the negotiations began, Josef Burg, head of the Israeli delegation, denied that Israel ~ad made any major concesswns. 
~-~-At the same time, he said he had come to Washington to negotiate and not simply to
"~~~-~~~~~·~ prepare for a summit meeting
w •!!;c ' ·_ ~
]18;::--~~ 

President Carter intends to
t-i ~L..,__lJ L~c.. 

hold sometime after the Nov. 4 elections with Egyptian Presi­dent Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Meoachem


SPECIAL 1 
CT.16,1 7 From ND CIRCLE 
To 
CHICAGO O'HARE EXPRESSI 
Depts Circle  6:45 a.m. 12:15 p.m.  
Arr. O'Hare  10:00 a.m. 3:30 p.m.  

To Your Individual Airline Gate 
Return 
Dept 10:55 a.m. O'Hare 4:45 p.m. 8:00p.m. 
(Board Lower Level Carson's Circle Restaurant) 
$15 One Way $28 round trip 


Buy Your Ticket From Your Driver 


Begin. 
The Carter administration, backing Egypt on the issue of Israeli settlements, contend:, that moving peorle into coo-tested territory vwlates inter­national law and poses an ob­stacle to a solution of the Arab­Israeli conflict. 
Israel agreed to uproot its settlements in Sinai as part of its peace treaty with Egypt, which returns that territory to Egyptian control. But while pledging not to build more than four more settlements on the West Bank, the Israeli ~overnment has not indicated Jt will dismantle the 42 already there. 
Before the talks opened, American mediators met with the Egyptian side to try to work out a formal Egyptian position. The original draft apparently reflected no substantive change in policy. 
The first round of talks was held at Blair House, across Pennsylvania A venue from the White House. · 
(cvntinued from page 5} 
twice in the same category. 
Sharing the chemistry prize with Sanger were Paul Berg of Stanford University, who is re­garded as the "father of genetic engineering," and Walter Gilbert of Harvard University. 
The three researchers were honored for their discoveries in the chemical structure ofgenetic material, the master blueprints for life, findings that could help 
develop  cures  for inherited di­ 
seases.  
Berg  will  receive  half  the  

$212,000 prize, and Gilbert and Sanger will share the other half. 
...Nobel 
The physics prize was shared by James Cronin of the U niver­sity of Chicago and ValL. Fitch of Princeton. They headed a team which found an abberation in natural laws that some scien­tists believe could reinforce the disputed big-bang theory of the origin of the universe. 
Seven of the nine 1980 Nobel prizes so far have gone to Americans. 
The medicine prize was shared by Baruj Benacerraf of Harvard, George D. Snell of the Jackson Laboratory in Bar Harbor, Maine, and Jean Dausset of 
(continued on page 12) 



ICHAEL STANLEY BAN 
live at St. Mary'sThurs. Oct. 30th 8:00 p.m. O'Laughlin Aud 

BUY YOUR TICKETS BEFORE BREAK 
ON SALE NOW 
SMC Ticket Office Reserved Seating & $6 BEFORE BREAK ND-SMC Dining Halls $7 ARER BREAK 


"Next"performed before weekendcrowds in the Nazz. The members of the all-student band are (left to right) Dan Brauweiler, Dan Ellis, Mike Tranel and Steve Dressel Bass player Mike Hunkler is not pictured. (photo by Jane Ahern.} 
... Offspring 
(contilllll!d(rom prtge 1) 
War began. They are denied full citizenship, barred from the military and rejected by society. A bill before the U.S. Congress would give the children a higher priority for visas. 
In Thailand, many of the estimated 4,500 Amer-Asian children became stateless persons under a 2-year-old decree denying citizenship to children of foreign fathers. 
A 7-year-old Thai girl recently was ruled an illegal alien, denied schooling and threatened with deportation, said a represen­tative of the Pearl S. Buck Foundation, which works with mixed-race children. 
The case is being appealed, but the foundation official, Robert Hearn, says that if the ruling stands, the girl will have no homeland and no place to go. 
Hearn suggests the United States follow the French exam­ple of granting citizenship to a child born of a French parent. But in most cases, he admits, this "would be meaningless" because the children consider themselves Thai. 
The children "live in Thai homes, with Thais. They're not going anywhere. Maybe one in a thousand would be interested in becoming an American." 
In the Philippines, about 50,000 Amer-Asians, most the off!'pring ofFilipino mothers and Gl fathers, are estimated to have been born this century. Their ages range from several weeks to more than 70 years. 
"Luckily in the Philippines, Amer-Asians are integrated more easily than in Korea or Japan," says William McCabe II, director of the Pearl Buck office there, mainly "because of the melting pot society." 
Although there are no restric­tions on citizenship, schooling or jobs, many such Filipinos must deal with the stigma of illegiti­
macy. 
Reports conflict as to the fate of thousands of children born to Vietnamese women and Amer­ican Gis. Although there appears to be no official policy of dis­crimination in Vietnam, many such children appear ostracized, and some are denied schooling. 
Recent Western visitors say scores of children and their mothers approached them, ask­ing for help to leave Vietnam. 
Tokashiki is humble about his 
search for his roots. 
"I know there are more hapless 
persons than me," he says. "My 
desire for a reunion with my 
father may be a tiny thing. But I 
have some types of anguish 
common to the mixedblood in Japan. By meeting my father, I hope that I will be able to be released from such feelings for a while." 


-----------~-------­
The Observer Wednesday, October 15, 1980 -page 5 
to be awarded a Nobel Prize

According to the official news agency, Brezhnev made the F_arley Hall restdents vote i11 yesterday's St11dent Smote reftrendum 
(continued 011 page 4)

comments in a meeting with tvhtch passed strongly. (photo by jane Ahern.) Armand Hammer, chairman of the Occidental Petroleum Corp. 
and long-time friend of Soviet leaders. Brezhnev's comments came 
Rev. Henriot expresses 'Global Justice' co~cem 
two days before American and Soviet negotiators are to meet in Geneva, Switzerland to begin a By Marty Mosby He cited specific reports and must take seriously the needs of He pointed out that an education new round of nuclear missile 
meetings which have addressed t~e 51% majo.~ity of human­for the future must combinetalks. 
structural issues between weal­kmd -women. _ vision, vocation, and societalTass reported that during his 
poor countries within values. "In terms of content and
Rev. Peter]. Henriot, S.J., dir­thy and Henriot made reference to theconversation with Hammer, 
ector of the Center of Concern, the past year. From one of these U.N. special sessions of the context, an education shouldBrezhnev said American moves 
Washington, D.C., delivered a reports, "Global 2000," Henriot General Assembly on Economic prepare students for a committ­toward a "constructive inter­
infered, "We're not going happi­Issues, commenting that nego­ment to global justice," he said.
lecture on "GlobalJustice in theaction ... will always find a posi­tiations between rich and poor Henriot believes that Notre
1980's: Current Failures and ly toward the year 2000." Hetive response in the Soviet countries did not accomplish a Dame, as one ofthe pilot schools Future Possibilities" yesterday added, "It isn't just the poorUnion." 
afternoon in the Hayes-Healy people's problem, ultimately great deal. in the A.C.C.U. (AmericanThe Soviet leader was quoted Auditorium. Afterward, the aud­global problems affect the rich as Henriot, a doctor of political Catholic Colleges and Universi­as saying that the current state of science, sketched three scenarios
ience engaged Henriot in a ques­well." ties) involved in justice educa­Soviet-American relations posed tion and answer session. Other reports which Henriot of future possibilities regarding tion is at least headed in the righta "growing danger." 
made reference to in order to global relations. direction. As examples of thisFr. Don McNeil, director of"He stressed that the United 
Notre Dame's Center for Exper­define the current crisis in global The first scenario with the self­direction, he cited the establish­States' continued ... stepping up iential Learning, which spon­justice include: "The Presiden­explanatory title of"Business As ment of The Chair in Education (of) international tensions and 
Usual" is unacceptable in for]ustice presently occupied byencouraging the arms race led to sorecl -the lecture, commented, tial Commission on World Henriot's opinion. "I think this is Denis Goulet, and the position

a further derangement of inter­"As a Jesuit and a scholar , Hunger Report", "The Brant national relations and a growing Henriot brings deep spiritual and Commission Report", and "The a dead end; business as usual has of the White Professor of Law 
war threat," ' Tass said. personal concern to provide an World Bank Report". All of brought us to where we are today presently occupied by John ]. and will lead to a grim future," he Gilligan. He also commented on
"In order to change this devel­articulate voice in solidarity with these reports were compiled by the poor especially in the Third distinguished p<Jilels who, accor­said. the value ofexperiential learning 
opment before it is too late, it is 
World." ding to Henriot, "said what revo­The second scenario presents a at the university as offered in thenecessary that the United States 
lutionaries and radicals have "Future of Confrontation" due form of such programs as theshould pursue a realistic policy Henriot, who came to Notre 
and resume constructive inter­Dame this week to participate in been shouting for years". Basic­to the global rich/poor confron­Urban Plunge. action with the U.S.S.R. in sol­the Conference on Multi­ally, they call for a fundamental tation constituting a profound "Key learning in my life has threat to peace and justice. been experiential," he said,
ving acute international prob National Managers and Third restructuring of institutions The third scenario presents the commenting on how his workems, primarily questions relating World Poverty presented a criti­which have created a profound only workable solution, accor­with squatters in Columbia in­to the limitation and reduction cal perspective on the question imbalance in wealth throughout ding to this renown author and fluenced him. "I had to learn to
of armaments," Tass reported of global justice as it relates to the world. public policy and education. There have been three impor­lecturer in social analysis. "We treat these people as persons and 
Brezhnev as saying. 
tant meetings during 1980 deal­must undergo a conversion of in the process, I learned what it ing with global justice issues. our hearts and of our mind set," means to be a person myself." 
The U.N. Conference on declared Henriot. "To be human Out of that experience. Women which was held in today means to be involved in Henriot learned that a com­Copenhagen looked critically at social justice," he said. mittment to people-not to
... HPC 
the position of women in the Henriot believes that educa­issues or causes-instills the world. Henriot said, "Promotion tion is the vehicle through which desire to change strudures of social and economic justice this conversion can be achieved. which violate human dignity. 
(aJflli!llle~fmm page 3) 
cally, the most robberies on campus happen between 1:30 
p.m. and dinnertime," he said, "and the only way to prevent those is locked room doors." 
Student Body President Paul Riehle asked the hall presidents about participation in yester­day's student senate vote and was told that "around 60 percent" of the students had picked up 
ballots. 
In response to a question, Riehle explained that Saturday's bannner proclaiming "VOTE YES ON STUDENT SENATE" was paid for by a student gov­ernment advertising fund, and cost $160. 
Those present at the meeting seemed to agree that confusion remains about the proposed stu­dent senate, since many students think it will replace all existing organizations on campus. 
...Senate 
(continued jrom pagt :.; 
turnout with 83 pe :cent of the dorm voting. The perccntag0s of voters in the ret• 'lining dorms were: Alumni-58~· ·•cent, Badin­70 percent, Bret·r·Phillips-29 percent, Carro1'·69 percent, Cavanaugh-60 pf!rcent. Dillon­65 percent, Farley-32 p~n;ent, Fisher-52 percent, 
Flanner-:>8 percent, Grace-51 percent, Holy Cross-70 percent, Howard-71 percent, Keenan-81 percent, Lewis-69 percent, Lyons-74 percent, Morrissey-59 percent, Sorin-67 percent, Stanford-78 percent, Walsh-69 percent, Zahm-7 5 percent, Vincent-71 percent, and 170 students off-campus voted. 
DO 
Make more of your weekpr1d w1tll great rntes on great GM c;, 1· l ;c)(>< 1 
from r H Jon Thurs tt"lrou~JII • ' 11 ,. 
Moml; ty Car comes With L,11 r, t' 1k rJf 
gas Ju~t pay tor gas usee! .t' 1\l r Pturn

$16~'~ car to renting locat1or. I l1~r r ·1 H11~ cto not apply
UnllmHed Mileage Michiana Regional Airport We try harder. South Ben<i . ln. 234-1024 Avis features GM cars and trucks. 

-~~--~----~-----------------~--... 
Wednesday, October 15, 1980 -page 6 







Editorials 
P.O.BoxQ 

fulnesbury 
.. ANfl lHeN AT 
MY! IT
3:00, !AI£ TAI<E IN 
SOUNf)S LIKe
A MOVIe, ANfl AT

1 >W'~(i(JfA 
I j 4:'15, {A/C(j() OVtl?. 
WHOI..& :cHt­

l 70 RllflY'S FOR A 
OfllE (AJ)/?J(EJ) 

l'l\'k~Q~'«:lr\\ !'\~_  
~.  .  _  t..kl'rl~\ ~~~~~~\\\~  
"r.'  ,,~\._ "''tn..\\\J\"4\\\.1  
·  

~ •• AND NCWI If ~OU'I.~ IURN 1t) PAGE '2.7 OF M'( ~8:);)1< Of lNS?IRA110NAJ.. 1-tff'.ANS ('bURS FR££. w~ AFIFTY 
'[X)j,.I.AR CON'fRIBUJlON), L£T US SING 100ETI1ER, IF loe'S 6COD ENOJSH fOR JESUS, HE'S (;OOp ao..GH Rl'R Wf,~ 1 
L---------------------~--------------------~--------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------~ 
than an incompetent Jimmy Carter. 
Bayh and Brademas, however, are a different matter. Twice in the pastten years I have worked for the Congress-first as Chief Counsel to aSenate Judiciary Subcommittee, and later as Chief Counsel to the House Select Committee on Assassinations. I have never worked for Bayh or Brademas, but I have had to work with them on a day to day basis, andl have Seen them l·n countless Congressional settings, public as wellas private. 
My judgment about them, therefore, is based on more than their records or promise of future performance. Quality of service in political life is deter­mined by more than party or ideology. Onthe vast majority of issues, breadth of experience, 
mature judgment and courage· count the most. 
From my personal experience, I can attest that it would be deeply regrettable if seasoned legislators of the caliber ofBirch Bayh or John Brademas were unthinkingly turned out ofoffice as part of an otherwise justified 
WC/1, Ac:rvALLY, I fJ/Il 
mms

PR£PAR& A SMAU 
SOM&FR&E

L/5TOf 7HING5 I 
TIM& ON 

7H(}(J(jf(T MIGHT 8E 
TH£R&,I

RJN7000.. 
Hope. 

general dissatisfaction with the minutes. In fact, one student said national leadership. that he "was not particularly 
G. Robert Blake bothered" by the wait. Professor ofLaw · Prof. Jemielity could have spent 
'I d • 
S e UcattOfi 
.£ ?'
a 100trace. 
Dear Editor, 
Th' · I ·
Is mornmg was Witness to a very inconsiderate act by a mem­ber of the Notre Dame faculty. My 9:00 class hadn't finished a test by 9:55. Usually we are given the fifteen minutes between classes to finish the test. My instructor, Prof. Pit Wong told us to finish by 10: I 0. Shortly after 10:00, Prof. Thomas Jemielitywalked into the classroom and demanded that we leave. Prof. Jemielity vaguely said that he wanted "to get settled." At this time, Prof. Jemielity's class was in the hallway and could have stayed there for another five minutes. Surely a class of twenty­five, when already assembled, can "get settled" in less than five 
MIKE, MfJfTIF

YeAH, 8ifTI'M AFRAilJ IAE'vt: 
fA£ JU5THAP­AiJ?EAlJfIJ5Ei) PcNW7lJM5­UPAI.M05r7£N PL/JC£. 1HJfT0t: MINtJTES OF IT. SCH£3/JUlE OF 
have ever heard . 
At the beginning of the season, I brushed off my initial impression, reasoning that I had heard so much professionalism from the likes of Keith 1ackson, Dick Enberg and Merlin Olsen. But it did not take me long to realize that there were no excuses to be made. Tom Dennin, presumably the play-by­play announcer, utters statements that would amuse my 13-year-old sister. He also seems to have a problem reading numbers. Players who are not even on the field are credited with tackles, catches and runs. His knowledge of football does not exceed that of an average fan. I now find myself watching the games with the sound turned down. I 1'eceive the same amount ofinfor­mation this way, but avoid the strain on my ears. 
What seems even more surprising to learn is the fact that Dennin is the sports director ofWNDU-TV. As for Jeff Jeffers-he is a suitable partner for Dennin. 
J. P. Wilmouth 

Friday rally at Stepan 'dangerous' 
Dear Editor, 
I returned with some friends for the Michigan game and was pleased to see the many unique Notre Dame traditions still being con­tinued. The only area in desperate need of attention is the Friday evening rally in Stepan Center. Without visibility and an adequate sound s•rstem there i~ 11 dangerous lack of ~ontrol. Friday rallies were once e ttertaining and memorable and I h.:>pe someoue w:· :.:orrect th situation. 
J. A./len Brown Nash~a•.N~•1 Hampshi~ 

The Irish Extra 
an Observer sportssupplement 
Wednesday, October 15, 1980 -page 7 




leers' hopes run high. • • 
by Mike Monk 
Sports Writer 

Ifexperience is a forerunner to success, Notre Dame's hopes this year in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association appear good. The Irish return 17lettermen from last year's 18-20-1 squad and coach Lefty Smith, entering his 13th year as Irish mentor, is optimistic about his team's chances in its last season of play in the WCHA. Smith will get a preview of his team this Friday with an exhibition game at Central Collegiate Hockey Association foe Ferris State. The Irish open up their WCHA campaign Oct. 24-25 at Colorado College. 
"We did lose some quality players from last year," says Smith, "but a lot 
ofyoung skaters picked up valuable experience when they had to fill in for 
the many injuries we suffered. I hope for us to reap some benefits from 
that." 

Besides the injuries, an inconsistent defensive unit hurt the Irish last year. So far, though, everyone is healthy and the defense, led by captains Jeff Brownschidle and Don Lucia, appears to be the anchor of the squad. Helping out Lucia and Brownschidle, who last year set school records for assists and points by a defenseman, are fellow senior Scott Cameron and juniors John Schmidt, Jim Brown and John Cox. 
An excellent goal tending corps by way of junior Dave Laurion and sophomore Bob McNamara rounds out an· experienced and quality defensive unit. 
"We have a lot ofexperience and leadership on the blue line," says Smith, "and two dependable goalies in Laurion and McNamara. I'm very confident with this part of the team." 
The offense is a bit more suspect due to the loss of three oflast year's top scorers-Greg Meredith, Tom Michalek and Ted Weltzin-to graduation. Junior Dave Poulin and sophomores Kirt Bjork and Rex Bellomy undertake the task offilling the skates left empty by Michalek and Weltzin at the center position. 
Poulin WflS one of those hampered by injuries last year but still scored 4 3 points in 24 games. He will be flanked by senior left-wing Kevin Humphreys and junior right-wingJeffLogan. Bjork's linemates are juniors Bill Rothstein and Jeff Perry. 
Bellomy, who Smith feels has been having a great preseason, is the leading candidate for the third center position. His linemate.li, however, and the rest of the offense remain to be determined. Top candidates for the spots are junior Dan Collard, sophomoresJohn Higgins, Dave Lucia, Dick Olson and Dan Rectenwald and freshmen Adam Parsons andJoe Bowie. 
"We will really be counting on the first two lines this year," says Smith. "A few ofour forwards are going to have to grow in a hurry to fill the gaps on offense., but I'm very confident in their ability-with a little· experience, I think we'll be fine." 
••• asNotre Dame 1breaks away' to more solid ice 
~V Btl! Mrtrq11ard Sports Wrti'er 
University and Athletic Department administrators laced a difficult decision at the end of the past school year: Should they pull the financial plug on a Notre Dame hockey program which could not support itself; or should they make a commitment to establish the expensive varsity sport on its own firm base? 
With a few economic concessions, such as the elimination of two scholarships and a proposed move out of the WCHA and into the CCHA, the powers-that-be elected to follow the second option -make hockey a viable reality at Notre Dame, both financially and competitively. 
Marketing became the key to success, and the 
Athletic Department began a concerted effort to 
Friday night option oran eight-gameSatmday night increase the awareness of Notre Dame hockey in plan available for $14 ami $16 respectively. the Michiana area. 
"Coach Smith seems to think that the success of The Breakaway Campaign was born. Breakaway has had an effect on the team as well," "Our first task was to form a committee of commented Busick. "The hockey team realizes that 
students, faculty, staff and local businessmen," the school has made a commitment to the program explained Ticket Manager Mike Busick, who is and has made an investment to promote them. 
"The effort could have a snowball effect,spearheading the A thleic Department's Breakaway particularly if we sell out."
effort. 
The capacity of the ice arena in the ACC's north"Basically we addressed the question of why dome is4,287, and Busick is hopeful that those seats Notre Dame hockey was or was not an attractive will all be filled up for many games this year. Notredraw for the Michiana entertainment dollar. One of Dame's best season attendance was in 1972-7 3,the biggest shortcomings we discovered was that when six of 14 games were sold out and the averagepeople here in the commmunity did not realize that attendance was over 3,800.
tickets were actually available for hockey. 
"Once we sell out a few games, people will begin"They assumed that since football and basketball to clamor for tickets," Busick said. "The team willwere sold out on a season ticket basis, hockey was, respond to all the support and momentum will justtoo," said Busick. 
The result was an extensive program, of advertising involving many different media: radio and TV spots, billboards, point of purchase ads, newspaper advertisements in the South Bend Tribune, the Elkhart Truth and The Observer, and a direct mail campaign. 
"We believe we have an exciting, entertaining, inexpensive product for the people of Michiana," offered Busick. "For four or five dollars, a person can see close to three hours of exciting hockey action-and good tickets are available." 
The direct mail campaign reached some 15,000 people, including football and basketball season ticket holders, alumni, members and boosters ofthe local Michiana and Irish Youth Hockey Leagues, and a number of Soutl-t Bend businesses. 
"Some people who had tickets in past years have declined to purchase them again, which is to be expected when one considers the state ofthe economy. But we have been pleased with the results so far." 
"We have accomplished some of our goals already," Buskk pointed out. "W·e Vtlt.Jc· made the public aware ofNotre Dame hockey and aware that tickets art· available. We have also reinforced what happened at Lake Placid last winter-people ar(• beginning to realize that most of the players on the gold medal-winning U.S. hockey team playl'd right here on the ice at the ACC in the past few years." 
Student ticket packages are still available, with a 
full 15-game set selling for $.~0 and a seven-game 
keep building. 
The result of Breakaway has been the sale of 1,800 season tickets over two weeks before the home season even opens, already 200 tickets over last yea.r's total at the beginning of the season. 
Busick expects season ticket sales to pick up even more as the October 28 home opener against Bowling Green approaches, with 2,500 season packages as a realistic expectation. 
"I can realistically envision us having to turn people away this vear." 
------L'" ~ ----~--~--~· 
The Irish Extra Wednesday, October 15, 1980 :page 8 
Strong defense keys Irish 
hy Mike Olenik .~port.r Writer 
In preparing for this year's WCHA season, Irish hockey coach Charles "Lefty" Smith has most certainly recognized the importance of his team playing sound defensive hockey in order to successfully compete against perennial powers like Minnesota and North Dakota. 
With five of six defensive starters returning to this year's edition, Smith has a firm foundation on which to build that type of a defensive-oriented team. 
I .eading the way for the Irish defensive corps are team captain Jeff Brownschidle and altetnate captain Don Lucia. Both are more than well versed in plav•ng the style of hockey required of tea11• leaders, and both will be heavily cotll•tL'U on bv Smith and their tea 111111ates fo.r displaying their dd('llsive aptitude. 
"Your defensive leaders will have to he .thle to play physical hockey consistently, and both Brownschidle and Lucia ;trL· more than capable of playing the body as well as most," said l.dtv Smith. "They also must be adept at handling the puck in many pressure ~ituations that require good stick work and puck control in order to clear the /.one. These an.: the two main points in piayi ng t:ffective defensive hockey, and I have to say that Jdl and Don do an excellent job at both." 
Smith is quick to point out, however, that Notre Dame's talent at this decisive position doesn't end with his two prize pupils. There is a distinct confidence when Smith relates his belief about the definite standout potential amongst blue liners such as .John Schmidt, Scott Cameron and Jim Brown. 
We are very pleased with the way all of our defenseman are working thus f:tr. Smith said. "We are getting 
excellent leadership out ofour captains, 
but each player has been impressive in 
his own way so far this fall. We feel that 
all ofour defensemen down the line will 
be the key to this year's club. Each will · 
play an important role in the team's 
success this season." 

With the dump and chase style ofplay 
adopted by many WCHA teams over the 
past years, the league has earned the 
reputation ofbeing a wide-open hockey 
institution. Such a game plan has been 
extensively u~ed by Notre Dame in the 
past, but with the new rule calling for an 
automatic whistle when the puck 
crosses the end line if shot from outside 
the red line, a new passing philosophy 
will most likely be instituted by Smith. 
This rule should have considerable 
effect on controlling the high scoring 
games, and Smith feels perfectly 
comfortable with the change. 

"We're hopeful that the new rule will 
help us utilize our defensive talents a 
little more, and we feel that the games 
will be somewhat tighter, but more · exciting for the fans," he said. "The rule 
will definitely help the goaltenders and 
defensemen, and we feel that both 
positions are capably suited to take full 
advantage of it." 

A problem pointed to by many last 
season as being the basis for declining 
attendance at home games was Notre 
Dame's relative ineffectiveness in using 
the ACC's familiar atmosphere to their 
advantage. Many Irish losses were 
plagued by defensive breakdowns which 
led to opposing team's scores. Smith 
feels that this problem will be virtually 
eliminated from this year's home games 
with the increase in experience and skill 
at the blue line and the added fan 
participation expected from the 
Breakaway campaign. 

"We didn't have a real good home 
atmosphere last year except for series 
such as Wisconsin, and with the 
closeness ofthis league, the home crowd 

Speedhighlights offense 
hJ' Michael Ortman A.r.rociate Sport.r Edtfor 

Put together a group of experienced hockey players, most of whom have been skating together for at least a year if not two, and including some of the finest stick handlers and goal scorers in the league. Add perhaps the greatest team speed in the WCHA, and what have you got? 
"There will be afree-wheelin' attack on the ice for Notre Dame all season," says junior center Dave Poulin. "Things are gonna be a lot different on offense this vear." 
Offensive freedom seems to be the theme surrounding the Irish attack this winter as Coach Lefty Smith has loosened the ties that bound certain players to certain areas on the ice. 
Freshmen rank high despite recruiting woes 
Br l.ouir Somoqyi
Sport.r ll"rtlcr · 
The theme "Breakawav'' could have 
been applied to Notre Dame hockey in 
htst vear's recruiting war. 
W'hile other hockev universities could comfortablv boast o(secure hockev futures, Notre Dame representatives had to break away for two months from the recruiting trail due to the minor sport .:risis of last vear. 
"It was a very difficult time for us," savs head coach I.e.fty Smith, "but you've got to give a lot of credit to last year's assistant. Ric Schafer. and to the kids themselves. Thev received a lot of pressure from other schools to break away from our unsure future, but they stuck it out with us the whole period," 
What is even more amazing is that only two financial scholarships were available to hand out to the many possible prize recruits. But with all the drawbacks, Smith still labels his class of '84-six in all with four walk-ons-as a "better than average group." 
"They're not physically big in terms of numbers, but they are an aggressive group that has probably ~s their biggest asset excellent hockey sense. They're adjusting and learning our system quite rapidly." · 
Smith didn't specify names when he stated that "two or three can make their impact felt immediately dn the team and in the league when the season starts," but to ardent hockev followers of the Irish, the names Adam Parsons and joe Bowie may light up their minds as well as a lot of judges' goal boxes this year. 
Last season the young duo led their high school to the number-one ranking in Canada with an amazing 54-3-3 record and along the way made provincial and national all-tourney teams. The 6-1, 180 pound Parsons should help out at the center position, as he led the hockey­talented nation in scoring with 57 goals and 50 assists in 55 games, setting new Toronto scoring records. Smith recites adjective after adjective before he makes the point on Parsons. " ... good puck handler, lots of smarts, great around the net... we believe he'll be playing an awful lot of hockey as the season progresses." 
"Playing with more experienced guys I see as an advantage," says Bowie, "because the better the competition you play against, the better you become yourself." 
"The adjustments haven't been too bad," shrugs Parsons. "And they've been made easier by the upperclassmen and captains. When we came here we didn't expect them at all to treat us as super as they have. It's a very close unified team whi~~ makes the playing all the more fun. 
"It just goes to show that everyone is really here to win," continues Bowie, "and I want to contribute in any little way I can to Lefty and the coaches and to Notre Dame toward these wins." 
"And we certainly would like a ring," interjects Parsons with a smile that turns into stone-faced seriousness when he continues, "We've got a good team here, we could do it thisJear." 
WhileParsonsan Bowie"werewanted very badly by us," as Smith says, the Notre Dame mentor is more happy with the prospects of four freshmen walk-ons. 
(continued on page 9) 
"There's much more freedom for the 
forwards this year," says Poulin, "and 
less discipline. It used to make a 
difference who was in which lanes on the 
ice, but now, as long as-someone's there, 
things are going to click." 
With the overall speed and quickness 
the Irish have among their forwards, the 
attack is sure to be fast paced. "I think 
our offense will be more exciting this 
year," says right wingJeffLogan, one of 
Poulin's linemates. "I know the fans will 
like it more." 
The Irish forwards will be taking a lot 
of shots this year, scoring with 
proportionately less frequency but 
hoping to increase the overall goal 
production. In other words, shooting 
more to score more. 
Smith has set only two lines to date, but with the first league game just over a week away, the other line combinations are sure to solidify shortly. Poulin will center for Logan and Kevin Humphreys on the first line. The trio had never worked together before this fall's camp, yet is skating together now as if it had been together for years. On the second line, sophomore Kirt Bjork will be skating in the middle with juniors Bill Rothstein to his left andJeffPerry on his right wing. 
"Kirt has been flying so far," said one teammate this week. "He's been making that line click like you wouldn't believe." 
Smith has to put a lot ofstock-in those top two lines, since that's where the majority ofhis offensive experience lies. With Notre Dame's all-time leading scorer, Greg Meredith, now graduated, someone, or some group, as one player suggested, will have to pick up some of the slack. 
"There isn't a Greg Meredith on this team," Poulin points out "There really isn't anyone with that kind of stamina. Greg played his best when he was on the ice for a long time. This year's team is more balanced, across each line and down the depth chart." 
(contiflued on page 10) 


can and should make a difference," Smith said. "We are looking forward to seeing how Breakaway will influence this season's home games. I do know that Mike Busick and the campaign has had a wonderful effect on the team and myselfand it is very gratifying to see this change of attitude." 
With the seaon closing in quickly on his veteran team, Smith looks at the league schedule with cautious optimism. 
"The league this year is hard to figure out, but I'd have to say that Minnesota will be the odds on favorite to take the title. From a defensive point ofview, the kid that will draw the greatest attention from our defense will be Neal Broten, who played for the Olympic team last year. Otherwise, the other teams in the league appear to be fairly balanced, and 
if we get the type of play we need from the defense as well as the offense, we will be there near the top at the end of the season." 


..
The Irish Extra Wednesday, October 15, 1980 -page 9 


Laurion, McNamara tend defense 
by Beth Huflma!l Sports Edrtor 
When you're hot, you're hot. When you're not, you won't play goalie for the Notre Dame hockey team. 
"Basically, we're going to go with the guy who's winning," says assistant Irish coach Len Moher, who concentrates on the goalies. 
The two top contenders for Notre Dame's goalie spot are junior Dave Laurion and sophomore Bob McNamara. taurion, a 5-7, 165-pounder from International Falls, Minn., compiled a 4.93 goals against average last year while the 5-10, 150 pound McNamara of Tor_onto, Canada, averaged 5.1 3. During the 1979-80 campaign the duo platooned in the goal, splitting the ice-time almost equally. 
"I hope to be the one who's on," says the 20-year-old Laurion. "It's a better way for us, though. Last year we tended to relax because we knew we'd be playing in one of the games." . 
"I think it's a better way, playing the winning goalie. It's best for the team," emphasizes the 19-year-old McNamara. "I'll understand if I don't play, because that's the way it should be." 
Moher, who played goalie for Notre Bob McNamara Dame and is in charge ofgoalie training, has been working with the pair to perfect their individual styles. 
"Both are fairly aggressive," says Moher. "They challenge the shooterand they play the angles well. Bob is more of a standup goalie while Dave is more acrobatic. But they both are fine goalies and both are experienced. 
"We've been working on their quickness, reactions and handling of themselves on skates. I'\fe tried to help them improve on their handling of the stick a little bit better than last year. We arc also working on passing the puck and intitiating breakouts. 
"We want to get them very consistent to prevent unnecessary or sloppy goals on rebounds." 
Moher, who will have sole decision as to who will start the first game, is greatly appreciated by his two charges. 
"It's tough for Lefty (Smith) to understand," claims McNamara. "It takes another goalie to understand the position and to know what we need to work on. 
"He has really helped us and has worked hard. Last year there was no one there to push us. Now Lenny adds a little more incentive to us to do just that much better." 


...freshm.en 
(crmtillued from page H) 
"They probably could have received 
scholarships elsewhere," Smith relates, 
"but they want to play for Notre Dame, 
and they have been quite impressive in 
practice." 
Hoping to suppress any challenges to 
the Notre Dame goal this year will be 
dcfensemen Tony Bonadio and Brian 
Barrington. 
Bonadio, who packs 17'5 pounds into 
his 5-9 frame, hails from Port Huron, 
Mich., but received his fame with the 
SarniaJunior Bees of the Western 
Ontario Canada 'B" Hockey League. lie, 
for one, is proving that freshman walk­
ons are not confined to just bench duty. 
"Bonadio is definitely challenging for a 
spot in the top six," praises Smith, '"lie 
has great 'get up and go', but we'vt· been 
even more impressed with his touglllll'SS. 
His aggressiveness shows that he is very 
much able to start." 
Barrington, a 6-1, IHO-poumk·r from 
Burnsville, Minn., has also been making 
his mark. 
"We see a lot of promise in Brian. lie shows great intelligence on in·, and moves extremely wt:ll with the puck, and really passes the puck well," says Smith. "Right now he needs improvement in strength and -like all freshmen-in tht· college transition game." 
In his junior year at Niagra Falls High School in New York, Mike Ml"lzk-r impressed Irish scouts with his 40-goal, 34-assist year. However, in his scni<H season, the recruiting layoff of two months by the Irish greatly limited any contact with Metzler. Thus, when he skated onto the A.C.C. icc this year ht· became the mystery man of till' squaJ. 
"We just had no idea what to expect from him," remembers Smith. But an injury to junior wingmanJeflPerry finally gave Metzler the chance to show his coaches his talent. 
"He has responded tremendously," says a pleased Smith, "he's been our most pleasant surprise in the pre-season workouts." 
A sixth freshman on the roster, 6-1, 170-pound JeffJones from Hinsdale, Ill., is out indefinitely with an injured leg. Nevertheless, his '56-goal, 47-assist season in 31 games-while leading Hindsdale Central High School to a 31-2­1 mark -indicates potential for the Irish at center. 
"What effect these freshman arc ~oing to have in our finish is somethin~ we're evaluatin~ on a day-to-day basis in practices," concludes Smith, "but I'm corrfident that when the season starts, and as it progresses, that they'll all contribute positively, and that a couple may really make their presence known in the WCHA." 
Moher and Fairholm celebrate homecoming in coaching ranks 
graduation, the Boston Bruins drafted $9,000 a year was not vey enticing as far knowledgeable about the various by Tim Prister Moher and offered him a spot on the as I was concerned," said the former aspects ofgoaltendin~ but will also help Sports Writer International League squad in Grand Irish winger. out with the forwards," said Smith who Upon graduation, Fairholm, a native has placed Moher in charge of
Rapids, Michigan. Lenny Moher and Terry Fairholm are "I got a chance to play against the of Montreal, worked in the business coordinatin_g all of the recruiting.field in Toronto for two years after 
the tv.~o newest additions toNotre Flyers and the Islanders in the American 
"Terry will also help out with. the
which he returned to Notre Dame to
Dame's hockey coaching staff. But the Hockey League and did pretty vyell but 
forwards but will make a major
consider attending MBA school. 
Irish have obtained more than just two they already had two solid goaltenders 
contribution in our recruiting of young
"I was accepted in April and
men skating around barking out orders. so I decided against pursuing a career in talent," said Smith. 
immediately wrote to Lefty (Smith) to
,...___.....

"Lenny and I want to be more than pro hockey," said Moher. 
thank him for his help. It was at this time 
just holler guys going around scolding Fairholm intends to return home over
that we discussed the possibility of me
certain individuals," said Fairholm. "We the Christmas break to check out tht·
helping out with the coaching duties." 
local talent. "The Toronto-Montreal
want to be friends of the players, Moher's only experience in coaching 
area is loaded with young talent and
someone to confide in. If we can help was his affiliation with Smith's summer 
hopefully I'll be able to influence a few
the players by simply pointing out some clinics. Also, he had helped out with the 
into attending Notre Dame. College
weak spots in their game, then we'll feel youth hockey programs and interhall 
hockey is on an upswing with the
: like we've really accomplished hockey activities. 
phenomenal performance of our
:something." "I'm really close friends with Ric 
Olympic team. More and more
Moher and Fairholm, both 1978 NO Schafer, who served as assistant coach 
Canadians are playing hockey in the
and recruiting coordinator here at
, graduates, were four-year lettermen. 
United States."
Notre Dame. He advised me that he
' Moher's outstanding work at the 
Moher Fairholm 
would be moving on to coach As for theoutlook ofthe squad, C11ach 
I goaltending position earned him the 
Fairholm, whose brother, Don, also elsewhere." Schafer, a former Irish Moher was quick to mention overall
most valuable player award as a 
played for the Irish, was captain of the captain under Smith, is presently the team speed as a major asset. "We'n:
freshman. As a result of his fine 
squad his senior year. The brothers had head coach at the University ofAlaska at changing from a pro style offense to a
freshman campaign, Moher was drafted 
the distinction of both scoring a goal in Fairbanks. European style. This involves more
by the Buffalo Sabres, a team known for 
cutting and weaving by our wingers and 
the same game, a feat which Terry is One man who is quite pleased with the
its outstanding defense. 
will take advantage of our quickness."
extremely proud o£ Fairholm was new three-man crew is head coach Lefty 
"Naturally I was thrilled and honored 
drafted by the Atlanta Flames (now Smith. "Both have very little experience Both Lenny Moher and Terry
to be drafted, but I definitely wanted to 
Calgary) after his senior year and was at coaching, but they are tremendous Fairbairn will be instrumental in making
complete my education," said Moher, a 
offered a position in the International students of the game. This is the first sure the irish take full advantage oftheir
native of Boston, Massachusetts. 
League. time that I've had a three-man staffand I strengths, but they will do so by
In addition, Moher was the recipient 
"The International League is two expect this setup to be very beneficial recommending and teaching, not by
' of the Deward McGauley Award for the 
levels below the NHL and their offer of for our kids. Lenny is very chastising.
outstanding hockey senior. Following 

~-----------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Irish Extra Wednesday, October 15 , 1980 -page 10 
Prognosis: Gophers tops, then??? 
Four seats will become empty at the Western Collegiate Hockey Association's 1981 spring meeting when Notre Dame, Michigan, Michigan State and Michigan Tech break away for the more economical pastures of the Central Collegiate loop. How much that will affect the WCHA-the nation's premier collegiate league­
remains to be seen. No one around the league, however, is looking that far ahead. They are all too busy preparing for this season-and it promises to be a 
~~ . 
A few Olympians have returned to the collegiate ranks and, as always, a bumper crop offreshmen have laced up for schools around the league. We should see a new champion, a new cellar dweller, and in between them? Your guess is as good as mine. 
Here's a rundown of the league, and for whatever it's worth, my pn:o:ctions on where they will wind up: 
COLORADO COLLEGE-The Tigers surprised quite a few people last year with a 21-victory season and a third place finish. They lose onlv four lettermen, but three ofthem were defensemen-that makes the b I ue I ine the only question mark. Senior goalie Tom Frame is one of the league's best and will anchor the defense. Up front top scorer Bruce Aikens (62 points last year) returns along with Dale Maksymyk, Ged Seguin and Greg Whyte to give coach Jeff Sauer high hopes this season. LAST YEAR: Third THIS YEAR: The same. 
DENVER-The Pioneers were hurting last year. How hurting? When injuries left the goalie ranks thin, forward Frank Xa":ier tended the nets. That's too bad because goalies Scott Robinson and Stu Birenbaum formed a good tandem. Birenbaum was forced to call it quits for this season as well because of injury and coach Marshall Johnston received more bad news when top forward GlennAnderson turned pro in August. He'll have a brothers act, Ken and Dave Berry, to call upon this year on offense. They finished lOth last year, but should climb somewhat. LAST YEAR: lOth. THIS YEAR: 8th. 
MICHIGAN-The Wolverines are led by a new coach, Wilf Martin, who inherits from Dan Farrell a team rich in defense. Sophomore netminder Paul Fricker recorded 20 wins last year and leads the way. In front of him, seniors Tim Manning andJohn Blum headline a strong blue line corps. Offensively, Murray Eaves (85 pts.) took off for the pros after his sophomore year and will have to be replaced, along with Dan Lerg. Sophomore Bruno Baseotto leads the offense this yea.r and will get help from seniors Jeff Mars, Gordie Hampson and Roger Bourne. If Martin can find the right combinations up front, the Wolves will be a strong team. LAST YEAR: fourth. THIS YEAR: second. 
MICHIGAN STATE-Coach Ron Mason's distinguished gray hair may become undistinguished if he can't find a defense. The Sp;utans lost their top goalie and best defenseman to graduation. 
Junior Doug Belland has experience in the nets, but his goals against average last year ranked as a respectable scoring mark for a reserve basketball player. The blue line corps had something to do with that, and they'll have to grow in a hurry this year. Leo Lynett leads a.strong offense, but it may be so busy playing defense it will not have time to score. LAST YEAR: eighth. THIS YEAR: ninth. 
MICHIGAN TECH-The Huskies' only losses were on offense, but they were not very consistent there last year anyway, so thosegaps may loom bigger than coach John Macinnes thinks. Most of the forwards are still young, but they are a talented bunch. On defense captain Tim Watters returns from the Canadian Olympic team and will be the leader. In goal Frank Krieber, Darcy Way and Rob Polmantuin were mediocre enough last year for none of them to rise above one another heading into this season. LAST YEAR: seventh. THIS YEAR: sixth. 
MINNESOTA -The Herb Brooks era has officially ended, but 
that ain't so bad. Brad Buetow performed magic last year in leading 
Brian Beglane 
Hockey Editor 


the Gophers to a second place finish while rriany of his boys were performing their own magic in Lake Placid. Buetow, now secure as coach, loses four players and gains a brothers act second to none with Neal andAaron Broten. Aaron won WCHA rookie ofthe year honors while Neal skated as an Olympian last season and also was a key to the Gophers' NCAA title two years ago. He returns as a sophomore. They highlight a potentially explosive offense. In goal, juniorJimJetland and sophomore Paul Butters are both proven and will have an experienced corps of defensemen skating in front of them. The Gophers are the clear-cut preseason favorites. LAST YEAR: Second. THIS YEAR: First. 
MINNESOTA-DULUTH-The Bulldogs came on strong last year-winning eight of their last 13 games-and coach Gus Hendrickson hopes to pick up right where they left off. Graduation, however, dropped offall-time leading scorer Dan Lempe and Glenn Kulyk, last year's top scorer. Sophomores Bill Oleksuk and Scott Carlston (27 goals each as ro8kies) will carry much ofthe offense this time around. Standout goalie Bill Perk! returns for his senior year, but only one senior, Tom Madson, returns on the blue line. A year's growth should show as they climb a little in the standings. LAST YEAR: sixth. THIS YEAR: fourth. 
NORTH DAKOTA-Last year's WCHA and NCAA champions lost a lot to graduation and the pros. Graduation claimed all-America center Mark Taylor while the NHL swooped up defenseman Howard Walker, left wing Doug Smail and standoutgoalie BobI wabuchi. The return of only 13 lettermen makes coach Gino Gasparini's job a lot tougher than last year ~nen they lost only eight of40 games. Darren Jensen, however, is just as gooda goalie as lwabuchi so things are okay there. The blue line remains strong with four returnees, but the question is on offense. Phil Sykes is the only standout returnee and how much help he will get may determine how far the Sioux will go. LAST YEAR: first. THIS YEAR: seventh. 
NOTRE DAME_-A good dark horse candidate this year. Graduation claimed three of the top five scorers, but those numbers look bigger than they actually are when you consider all the injuries suffered last season. Quality abounds defensively with Dave Laurion and Bob McNamara in goal and a wealth ofreturnees on the blue line. Offense is the question mark with only six experienced skaters back, but ifLefty Smith can find a few more forwards, the Irish may surprise a lot of folks. LAST YEAR: fifth. THIS YEAR: the same. 
WISCONSIN -Badger BobJohnson and his team have to dodge a slew of question marks on the ice as they prepare for the upcoming season. They sat out the playoffs for the first time in their history last year and lost a few key skaters from that club. All-America goalie Roy Schultz took offfor the pros, forwards Jim Scheid and Chuck Durocher and defenseman Ron Griffin graduated and Mark Johnson opted for the NHL instead of his final year at Wisconsin after being part of the miracle at Lake Placid. All that hurts a lot. Three of the four leading scorers return, but there is no proven goalie. They may be spectating again come playoff time. LAST YEAR: ninth. THIS YEAR: Don't tell anyone in Madison, but I'm picking them last. 
Enjoy as much of the show as you can. Unless miracles can be worked on the negotiating table, it's the lasttime WCHA fans will get to see more than five opponents in a season. 
Schedule 
DATE OPPONENT 
Oct. 17 Ferris State 
18 Minnesota-Duluth 
24 Colorado College 
25 Colorado College 
28 BOWLING GREEN 
31 Clarkson 
Nov. 1 Clarkson 
4 Bowling Green 7 Minnesota 8 Minnesota 
14 Wisconsin 
15 Wisconsin 
21 MICHIGAN TECH 
22 MICHIGAN TECH 
28 MICHIGAN 
29 MICHIGAN Dec. 5 ILL-CHICAGO CIRCLE 
6 ILL-CHICAGO CIRCLE 
11 MICHIGAN STATE 
12 MICHIGAN STATE Jan. 2 WESTERN MICHIGAN 3 Western Michigan 9 Michigan Tech 
10 Michigan Tech 
16 NORTH DAKOTA 
17 NORTH DAKOTA 
23 DENVER 
24 DENVER 
30 Minnesota~Duluth 
31 Minnesota~Duluth 
Feb. 6 Michigan 
7 Michigan 13 Michigan State 14 Michigan State 20 COLORADO COLLEGE 21 COLORADO COLLEGE 27 WISCONSIN 28 WISCONSIN 
Roster 

NO PLAYER POS HT WT CL 1 Bob McNamara G 5-10 150 So. 2 Tony Bonadio D 5-9 175 Fr. 3 Jim Bro~n D 6-4 205 Jr. 4 Jeff BrQwnschidle D 6·2 200 Sr. 5 John Cox D 6-1 195 Jr.. 7 Kevin Humphreys w 5-B 160 Sr. 8 Adam Parsons c 6-1 180 Fr. 9 Bill Rothstein w 5-9 170 Jr. 10 Kirt Bjork w 5-9 170 So. 11 Jeff Logan w 5-10 175 Jr. 12 Jeff Perry w 5-9 185 Jr. 13 Dan Rectenwald w 5-8 160 So. 14 Joe Bowie w 5·10 185 Fr. 15 Dave Poulin c 5-11 175 Jr. 16 Dick Olson c 5·9 185 So. 17 Rex Bellomy w 5-11 175 So. 18 Mark Doman w 5-8 165 So. 19 Don Lucia D 6-0 185 Sr. 20 Scott Cameron D 6-2 205 Sr. 21 Dave Lucia w 5-10175 So. 22 John Higgins w 5-10 175 So. 23 John Schmidt D 6-0 200 Jr. 24 Jeff Jones c 6-1 170 Fr. 25 Dan Collard w 6·0 195 Jr. 26 Brian Barrington D 6-1 180 Fr. 27 Mike Metzler D 5-10 170 Fr. 28 Ron Zamber w 5-11165 So. 29 Greg Kania D 5-10 185 Jr. 30 David Laurion G 5-7 165 Jr. 31 Mark Schores G 6-0 155 Jr. 32 Dan 0' Donnell G 6·0 160 Jr. 

(wntinued from page 8} 
As a result, everyone is going to have to stay relatively healthy, something the Irish were unable to do in 1979-80. 
After the top two lines, a host oftalent is battling for the final positions on the traveling squad. "That's going to be a tough decision," admits Smith. "Because of all the injuries last year, several people got valuable experience that will come in handy. Yet now the injured people are back. It puts us in a pleasant predicament." 
The third line rapidly is beginning to gell with Rex Bellomy appearing to have a good grasp of the center spot. Smith has been greatly impressed with the sophomore's performance. Bellomy could be centering for John Higgins and Mark Doman, but that is subject to change. 
A pair of talented freshmen are vying for ice time on the fourth line. Center Adam Parsons and left winger Joe Bowie have been working with right wing sophomore Dave Lucia this week on a potential line combination, as have Dick Olson (center), Dan Collard (left wing) and Mike Metzler (right wing); and Ron Zamber (center), Dan Rectenwald (left wing) and Greg Kania (right wing). 
Yet the <;:>ffensive attack on the ice is 
more than just three forwards. "The key 
to everything," says Poulin, "is our 
defensemen. They're the oneswho get 
the movement up ice started." 
• • • offense 
The Irish have some of the best blue­liners in the business, this year, with senior captainJeffBrownschidle leading the list. Brownschidle could possibly be the best offensive defenseman in the WCHA this season. Junior John Schmidt, very close to Brownschidle in offensive potential, is another experienced performer who caught the eye of the Montreal Canadiens, who drafted him last spring. Schmidt runs a close second to Brownschidle as an offensive threat from the blue line. 
The defensemen should take an even more active role in the offense this year, in an attempt to free up the forwards. 
The Irish Extra was 
designed and edited 
by Brian Beglane. 
Assistant editor 
Beth Huffman 
\ 


-I
The ObserYer I 
i 
~c:}c:t~~===================W==ron=e=~=ay=,O=ct=o~=r=l=5,=19=8=0=-p=~=el=l
Campus Molarity Michael Molinelli 
• 
3:30p.m. -soccer, nd vs. bowling green univ., cartier field. 

• 
6:30 p.m. -sailing club meeting. · 

• 
7 p.m. -movie: "the first circle", nieuwland hall. 


• 7, 9,& 11 p.m. -"the african queen", engineering aud. 
•s 
p.m. movie: "stockholm" snite aud. 

• 
9 p.m. -nazz, open stage. 


Reservations for 




stop running after this Saturday's r--------------------------~A~C:o:R:o::O:o::S::S-"""":;'l:" ~E~n-am-e~le-d~-24:-rr-om-a--­
3 ~H:':'ad~on~--=56 ~ 
1948, Andrew Mellon Professor ~;:====================::;;-i;:1;;;;::;;;\;=~::::::;i;;=~ij;::~w;:::~;;:;:=1;;::~
of English at Vanderbilt. 


Stepan courts begin 
Reservations are being taken for court time at Stepan Center All this week, in the Student Activities Office, LaFortune Student Center. These res­ervations are for the Fall pro­gram, October 27 through De­cember 11, 1980. 
Shuttle stops Oct. 18th 
The ND/SMC Shuttle Bus will 
servicc, October 18, 1980. The shuttle bus will resume 
scheduled runs on Sunday, Oct­ober 26, 1980. 
Poet Davie enlightens 
Donald Davie, Professor of English and humanities at Vanderbilt University, will fo­cus on "Enlightenment and Christian Dissent" during the annual Ward-Phillips Lectures takingplace this week. The talks at 4:30 p.m. daily in the Memorial Library Auditorium are sponsored by the English Department and are open to the public. 
Born in En~land and educated at Cambndge Univer­sity, Davie is the author of several volumes of poetry. He has been a member of the faculty at Cambridge, Trinity College of Dublin, University of California at Santa Barbara, Stanford University, and since 
His talks are entitled "Poetry and the English Enlighten­ment" on Monday; "Enlighten­
ment and Dissent'' on Tuesday; "Robert Browning" on Wed­nesday; "Two of Browning's Heirs" on Thursday; and "A Reading: The Poetry of Donald Davie" on FridaY.·. 
The Ward-Phtlhps Lectures honor two devoted and dis­tinguished former professors of English at Notre Dame, Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., and Charlse Phillips. Fr. Ward began teaching at Notre Dame 
1 in 1929 and served for 17 years as chairman of the English Department. Among his books are a collection of short stories, "Men in the Field" Phillips, an established poet, critic and playwright, began teaching in 1924 and helped in 
1 
the establishment of the pre­sent University Theater before his death in 1933. 
Peanuts 
Charles Schultz 

MARDI GRAS 
' 

Organizational Meeting 
WEDNESDAY 
ALL: Hall Chairmen -6:30 Architects Ticket Sales 
BOOTH THEMES Are Due Tonight. All Halls Need to be Represented 
Lafortune Little Theater 
1 Tiff 34 Etna output metalware distance
The Daily £""'-ossword . 
5 French 38 In addition 60 Vaudevll· 25 Winnie­
© 1980 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. Ail Rights Reserved 
composer 9 Encountered rival 63 B•st 26 Trick 
12 Cognizant 40 John, In 64 Wild hog 28 Convinces 13 Former Russia 65 Equally 29 Multitude Shah's land 41 Woodwind 66 African 30 Prospera's 14 Theater 42 London's ruler slave section -Park 67 Clumsy 32 Show assent 15 Ponchlelll 43 Bread boats 34 Fib 
favorite Ingredient 68 Piccolo -35 Grandpa· 18 Poker stake 44 Well-known rental 19 Equipment ballet DOWN 36 Decorative 20 Facilitates 46 Bandleader 1 With 56 D, container 21 Dolores Brown celebrated 37 Insects 
-Rio 47 Those ballet 39 Greek 23 Light against 2 Gasp letters 
helmet 50 Elected 3 Like s 43 Desire 24 Broadcast ones rainbow 44 Miss Lollo· 27 Mold anew 52 Wedding 4 Golf gadget brlglda 31 Hurled 53 Aware of 5 Animation 45 Beast 

6 Ionian gulf 47 Electron 
7 Cov.(ardly tube plate lion por· 48 Dunce trayer 49 Roman wear 
II Unit 51 Tablet of 9 Mickey or atone 
Minnie 52 Secondhand 10 Plumed bird 53 Essence 11 Mrs. Dick 54 Fllckertall 
Tracy State: abbr. 12 Miss Rehan 55 Seamen 14 Rich soli 57 Skip 16 Act the 56 See 1 D 
lecher 59 Chemical 17 Answer to a ending
roll call 61 Cagers' 22 Work unit org. 23 Mimics 62 Headwear 
YOU EARN WHAT YOU'RE WORTH (and morel) 
Financial reward, andjob experience available as MANAGER of WSND's growing SALES department. 
Call 7425/7342 for interview. 



~-~--am-~~~----------~-------~------------~--~----­
The Observer Wednesday, October 15, 1980 -page 12 
Court clears ABSCAM tape 
(continued from page 4)  Bardeen, the physics winner in  Be~g,  54, was  the  first  re­ 
1956 and 1972. Marie Curie of  searcher to construct a recombi­ 
France. The literature prize went  France  won  the  physics  and  nant DNA molecule,  one con­ 
to poet-novelist Czeslaw Milosz,  chemistry prizes  in  the  early  taining DNA from different spe­ 
a  naturalized U.S.  citizen who  1900s,  and  American  Linus  cies. His work led to the tech­ 
writes in Polish. The peace prize  Pauling won the chemistry prize  nology often called genetic en­ 
was awarded to Argentine rights  in 1954 and the peace prize ir..  gineering or gene manipulation,  
activist Adolfo Perez Esquivel.  1962.  clouded by controversy because  
The winner of the economics  of some scientists' fears that it  


prize will be announced today. The three chemistry laureates could create new, unknown and All except the economics prize were cited for 1 field of research, dangerous organisms. were established at the turn of genetics, that has produced 20 A jiil11re domer tmd pttl engt1ge til the century by the will of the Nobel Prize winners in 21 years. Because of the controversy, 
Berg himself recommended and
inventor of dynamite, Alfred They worked on deoxyribo­
r~tbletk actil'l'ty mi camp11.r before the 
adhered to a moratorium on the
Nobel. The economics prize was nucleic acid, or DNA, the spiral
Jog! 

wit/ ol winter .ret.r in. (Photo kYJohn 
research in 1974-78.
set up by the Central Bank of molecular compound in the
Mrtcor) 
Gilbert, 48, and Sanger, 62,

Sweden in 1968. nucleus of a living cell that 
independently developed me­
Before Sanger, the only person governs heredity, affecting such 
thods of determining the se­
to have won a Nobel in the same functions as reproduction ability 
quence.
field twice was American James and growth. 

NEW YORk (AP)-The U.S. Supreme Court cleared the way 
'yesterday for television broad­cast of audio and videotapes played in the first Abscam trial, 
· including one that shows Rep. Michael Myers, DPa., accepting a $50,000 payoff. . The tapes were released after the high court refused to over­turn a ruling first made by U.S. District Judge George C. Pratt during the August trial. Al­
l though the issue was raised only
Iin the Myers trial, the decision is expected to result in the future release of tapes used in the other Abscam trials. 
The networks and other major television and radio organiza­tions were receiving 3 hours of material -all of the tapes intro­duced in the trial that ended in the bribery-conspiraCY-convic­tions of Myers, codefendant 
Angelo  Errichetti  and  two  
others.  
On the  tapes,  Myers  and  

Errichetti are heard discussing their influence over scores of politicians, members of the Mafia, members of the Philadel­phia City Council, dock workers' unions, port officials and coal mining interests. 
One videotape records an Aug. 
22, 1979, payoff meeting be­tween Myers, a former long­shoreman; FBI agent Anthony Amoroso, posing as the sheik's bagman; Errichetti, aNewJersey state senator and mayor of Camden, N.J.; and Mel Weinberg, the convicted con man who helped devise an FBI sting operation that resulted in the indictment of six congress­men. 
At meeting's end, Amoroso gave Myers a manila envelope containing $50,000 and told him: "Spend it well." 
"It's a pleasure," Myers said. 
...Nobel 



I:DIPITEIS AlE 
GATHEIIIIII 
CHICIII. 
The biggest computer show ever held in this area is ready to take place. Over $50 million worth of 
software and hardware for business, industry, government, education, home and personal use will be featured in 100,000 square feet of display space. 
Computers costing $150 to $250,000, including mini and micro computers, data and word processing equipment, telecommunications, office machines, electronic typewriters, peripheral equipment and services will all be on display and for sale. 
All the major names like IBM, Radio Shack, Apple and Pet will be there, plus robots, computerized video games, computer art and computer music to entertain, enthrall and educate kids, spouses, and people who don't know a program from a memory disk. 
Don't miss the coming of the computers. Show up for the show. Admission: $5. Children under 12: $2. with adult. 
~ -~---~

--·-.. ...... -­
--·­
~---­

----·-----_,·---... ....... --­
·------__ .......___. 
..-.-..-........~-·-.---~--~-­
·---­

--. --_._. ~ ---­-~~ 
~---­
-·------.---. --·-..
----------.---..
.._~-~---
McCORMICK PLACE 
Schoessling Hall• 23rd & the Lake 
Parking for 10,000 cars or use CTA 
THURSDAY-SUNDAY, OCTOBER 16-19 
12 Noon to 10 PM Thurs.-Sat. • 11 AM to 6 PM Sun. Produced by National Computer Shows • (617) 739-2000 
Associated Press Writer 
A campaign debate between President Carter and Ronald Reagan became a live possi­bility again yesturday when the League of Women Voters de­cided to review John B. Ander­son's status as a real con­tender for the presidency. 
Meanwhile, Reagan said he would appoint a woman to the first vacancy on the U.S. Supreme Court as president; Carter claimed Reagan's econ­omic proposals would cost at least $140 billion in fiscal 1983, and Anderson said his own program would result in a balanced budget by then. 
"We are gomg to look at the polls this week,'' league president Ruth J. Hinerfeld told reporters. "If Anderson is not significant, he obviously would not be invited to the next debate.'' 
Anderson, the independent candidate whose standing in the polls has been declining, said in Chicago his support still is strong enough to make him a credible national candi­date. 
Reagan, the Republican presidential nominee who has msisted that any debate pack­age must include a provision for a Carter-Anderson con­frontation, would not say if a league invitation for a one­on-one debate with the pres­ident would be acceptable. 
There was,no word from the White House, but the pres­ident has actively sought a 
face-to-face debate with 
Reagan .and has accepted a 
number of invitations from 
• potential sponsors other than 
the league. Anderson was included in 
the league's first debate, in 
baltimore on Sept. 21, after his 
standing in the polls exceeded 
the -I5 percent the league set 
as a minimum to qualify. 
Reagan debated Anderson 
alone when the president re­
fused to take part, and a 
second debate scheduled for 
Portland, Ore., was canceled. 
While Anderson's exclusion 

would not necessarily mean 
that a debate between Carter 
and Reagan finally will take 
place, it would remove the rea­
son cited by the president for 
not taking part before. 
Carter has insisted stead­

fastly on a debate with 
Reagan alone. The Republican 
presidential nominee has in­
sisted that an Anderson-Carter 
debate be part of any such 
package. 
Mrs. Hinerfeld said if 

Anderson's standing is no 
longer that of a "significant" 
candidate, a new invitation 
would be issued to Carter lnd 
Reagan for a two-man debate. 
She did not say what con­
stitutes significant, or whether 
the 15 percent polls rating 
standard still apphes. 
In the latest Associated 

Press-NBC news poll, released 
Monday, Anderson's support 
nationwide had dropped from 
13 percent in September to 10 
percent in October. Reagan's 
standing went up one ·per­
centage point to 43 percent 1 
and Carter's rose two points 
to , 35 percent in the same 
period. 
The latest Louis Hartis poll, meanwhile, showed Anderson dropping from 17 percent in September to 14 percent, with ·Reagan and Carter each going up two points to 43 percent 
and 39 percent respectively. 
---~---~-----------------------------------­

--~-,------------~~ 
The Observer Wednesday,October 15, 1980-page 13 --~ -------··---------------------­

Gin l-l Vodka
Walkers Special Canadian 
4~w?. J!? Cocktails 
, 1 99 f' 8!? 2''
Wild For Two
Full 

Turkey
Liter! 
JBB 

~ Scotch 
Bourbon
Jim Beam 
899 
I~J!BLEND ~'"''·999 
7Wml. 

~ Liter 
Big 
1.75 

Carlo Rossi 39 9 
Liter Rhine, Chablia, Red Mowllain Buraundy, Pink Chabli1, Vin Roae, Sanrria, L.iaht Chianti, PaiaaDo 3 l..ar. 
~:!~,,Pink Chablio, Crenacho 399 
Ro.e, Chabli• Blanc:, Rhine ... 3 lt.r. 
. 

Hiram Walker 

BRAND 
THIS BUD'S Apricot FORlOU! Blackberry 
Cherry 
Peach

Miller Hamm's 
750 mi.
High Life 
24/12 Oz. Cana 
Hiram Walker Peppermint Schnapps
,,,&ulo• 549 449 
(The King's Stores Are Your Stores! I 
If You Would Like To Make Any Suggeationa On How We Can Serve You Better, Either Talk To Our Store Manager Or Write To Ua: The King's Commitment 
69 

To You!
Suggeationa c/o Kinga Cellar 513 N. Michigan *ALWAYS LOW, LOW PRICING ON 
South Bend, IN 46601 QUAUTY PRODUCTS.
24/12 oz. 

* rnE MOST COURTEOUS SERVICE POSSmLE.
CANS PieJr Up Your Spirits 
I 

* SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 
And Enjoy Lower Priees! 
!-iliPEit STOUES! 
STORE HOURS, Mon. lhru ThW"a. 8 A.M.• IO P.M. Fri. &Sat. 8 A.M.· II P.M. 
. ......................................-.. ..... 
~----~-----­

The Observer Wednesday, October 15, 1980 -page 14 
,_ 
N.D. 5th 

'Barna holds top rank 
Unranked Rutgers was any­thing but easy pickings for top­ranked Alabama, but the Crim­son Tide'f -7-13 victory over the Scarlet Kn:ghts was enough to keep Bear Bryant's team atop The Associated Press college football rankings for the fifth <: msecutive week. 
The Tide, who handed Bryant his 301 st career coaching vic­tOij', did lose some support among those who vote in the nationwide poll of sports writers and broadcasters, however. 
Alabama, 5-0, was named at the top of 52 of 68 b:-.llots. But erosion of its position was evi­dent in view of the Tide getting 60 of 61 votes prior to the Rutgers game. The Tide rolled up 1,327 of a possible 1,360 points. 
Coming off a 27-10 victory over Arizona, Southern Cal, 5-0, received eight first-place votes to compile 1,224 points and retain its No. 2 ranking. Texas, again ranked third, and UCLA, moving from fifth to fourth, each got four first-place votes. 
Texas, 5-0, rolled up 1,201 points after beating Oklahoma, 20-13. UCLA, a 35-21 winner over Stanford got 1.1 ~()points to 

tJ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••ii••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••n••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ~ 
N.D.S.U. Presents: 
~ 

i=====:~ FRIDAY, OCT. 31, 1980 Plan AHEAD-bring a costume back from break. Costumes will be
::: 

judged, and prizes will be awarded. 
.................................................,........................................................-:···············-··· 
replace Pittsburgh, which fell to 11th after losing to Florida State, 36-22. 
Notre Dame, 4-0, moved up two notches to fifth with 1,052 points on the strength of its 32­14 pasting of previously unbeat­en Miami (Fla.). That loss dropped the Hurricanes to 18th. 
Georgia, 5-0, held on to the sixth spot with a 28-21 victory over Mississippi to compile 1,028 points. Floida State, 5-1, ad­vanced from 11th position to seventh with 921 points thanks to its upset of Pitt. 
No. 8 North Carolina, 5-0, held its positionand received 856 points after whipping Wake Forest, 27-9. Ohio State, 4-1, crushed hapless Northwestern, 63-0 to remain in ninth olace with 819 points, eight more than lOth-ranked Nebraska, 4-1, which devastated Kansas 54-0. 
The Second Ten consists of: Pitt, 4-1; Penn State, 4-1; Baylor, 5-0; Arkansas, 4-1; South Carolina, 5-1; Missouri, 4-1; Oklahoma, 2-2; Miami4-1; Iowa State, 5-0, and Stanford, 4-2. 
Iowa State entered the picture for the first time after beating Kansas State, 31-7 to replace SMU, a 32-28 loser to Baylor. 
Flythe jet set. 
Stand the 

F-4 Phan­tom on 1ts tail and climb. straight into the stratosphere. 

CrUise at 185 mph and dive at 220 in the jet-powered 


AH-1 Cobra gun­ship 
Hover in midair or shift the AV-8 Harrier into drive and Jet out at speeds 

FlyMarine. 
If you re in college now and want to fly. we can get you off the ground. Our PLC Air Program guarantee"s flight school after basic training. If you qualify. we can put you in the air before college graduation with tree civjlian fly­Ing lessons Contact us-now' Call 317-269-7781/7782. 
\ 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesday through Friday 
The Few. At LaFortune Center 
The Proud. The Marines. 


The rigors ofmidterm exams take.r it.r toll before October break. Fatigue shows 'on the north quad academic. (Photo by john Macor) 
let's jam I the notre dame student union presents 
~!!!!!!!!!!!!!! country rock jam!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
featuring the vassar clements band john hall heartsfield 
radio flyerrich prezioso &kevin quigley 
tickets: $5.00 general admission $4.00 w. n.d./smc i.d. 
available at: ndsu ticket office m-f (12·4) all river city record stores 
chicken barbecue 5·8 p.m. tickets $3.50 
sat. nov. 1st. stepan center 
HERTZ 
ECONOMY FARES,
WEEKENDS 
FROM $17.99 A DAY. 
Call234-3712 
These Economy Fan::-; art' 
Touring Rates, subject to change without notic"' and non discountable. There are minimum day and advance reservation requirements, and 
"~ re~~~tio=ns
on when 
where cars H•ltz~ 
must be returned. Gas is not included. Call Hertz for details. ® 
WHERE WINNERS RENT. 
IIIRTI HINP.., HlHD..,/\Nil!l'nll HllNr CAH.., 
Non-partisans 
to provide diversity ofopinion 
The American Political For­um, a non-partisan organization established for the discussion and debate of contemporary American politics, is holding an organizational meeting on \Ved­nesday, October 15 at 7:00pm in 108 O'Shaughnessy Hall. All in­terested members of the ND­SMC community are invited to attend. The constitution and format will be reviewed, topics for the semester's remaining dis­cussions will be established, and volunteers will be accepted to spearhead specific discussions. 
In response to the lack of di­verse opinion found in most par­tisan political groups on campus, the American Political Forum is attempting to achieve two ob­jectives: (1) To provide students and faculty wit:1 the opportunity to share and discuss their polit­ical views with people holding differing opinions, and (2) To provide interested parties with an opportunity to give their opinions added coherence, by their investigation into the dis­cussion topics and by conflict with other informed, opinions on those topics.• For further infor­mation, contact either Dan Gonzales or Rob Gould at 277­0651. 
Attorney 
addresses violence 
•
1-nsports 
Rick Borrow, a Miami attor­. ney and author of a current bill which would make it a criminal ' ofense for professional athletes to engage in excessive violence, 

, will speak at a Sports Law-sym­posium in thP University of Notre Dame'5 Memorial Library Auditorium at 7 p.m. Thursday (Oct. 16). The program is open to the public. 
The chairman ofthe American Bar Association's Task Force on Sports Violence, Borrow drafted the current bill on sports vio­lence introduced by Congress­man Ronald Mottl (D-Ohio), a 1956 Notre Dame alumnus, in the House of Representatives July 31. He is the author of a book, "Sports Violence: The Interaction Between Private Lawmaking and the Criminal Law," and contributed a chapter on sports violence in another book, "The Governance of Intercollegiate Athletics." 
Borrow received an under­graduate degree in communi­cation studies at Northwestern University in 1976 and a law degree at Harvard University in 1979. During the last year he has served as a clerk in the offices of· Federal District Court Judge 
George L. Hart, Jr., Washing­ton, D.C. 
The Sports Law program at Notre Dame sponsors talks by noted authorities each year. Granville Cleveland of the Law School is coordinator of the pro­gram. 

~ 
The Observer Wednesday, October 15, 1980 -page 15 -1 
1 
1 
~
• • • World Series I 
loaded the first of his two home Bowa then stole second and then hit Rose on the right knee. drilling a double to the right field 
(continued from page 16} 
runs in the third after Hal McRae raced home when Boone, play­Mike Schmidt walked as the corner which scored Trillo and both clubs went into the Series had singled. Aikens became only ing on one healthy leg, doubled right-center field scoreboard led made it 6-4. with rookie managers-the first the second player in baseball to left field. Boone suffered a cheers, asking ifthe K.C. pitcher In the fifth, the Phillies came time that has happened in the history to hit two home runs in badly bruised foot in the playoffs was experiencing "A touch of back for more. history of the Fall Classic. his first Series game. but pledged to play in this Series. Wildness?" With one out, Schmidt walked 
Early on, this looked like it His second homer in the That brought up leadoff man The cheers really rocked again and McBride, who had would be a Kansas City night as ~jghth, also good for two runs, Lonnie Smith, inserted in left Veterans Stadium moments later three hits in the game, singled to the Royals rushed to a 4-0 lead :brought Tug McGraw in to re­field when Philadelphia Manager when McBride, batti;,_g cleanup, left. Reliever Renie Martin, who against Walk on a pair oftwo-run lieve Walk. Dallas Green decided to use his slammed Leonard's 1-1 serve had come on in the fourth, then homers. Amos Otis connected in The · Phillies, following the regular, Greg Luzinski, as the over the right field wall. The shot hit Luzinski in the back, loading the second inning following a pattern they had established in designated hitter. banged into the line of National the bases. walk to leadoff man Darrell the dramatic five-game National Smith delivered a single to left League logos that decorate the The count went to 3-2 before Porter, and Willie Aikens, cele­League Championship Series a­and Boone stopped at third as fence just below the scoreboard Garry Maddox lifted a sacrifice 
brating his 26th birthday, un-gainst the Astros, quickly wiped George Brett cut off the throw. over the 371-foot sign. fly to left, scoring Schmidt to out the 4-0 deficit. When Smith made a wide turn That made the score 5-4 make it 7-4. Kansas City starter Dennis around first, Brett decided to run Philadelphia, but the Phillies While the Phillies were build­Leonard, who won 20 games this him down. As the Royals closed weren't finished. In the fourth, ing their lead, Walk had settled
Tryouts 
season for the third time in his in on Smith, Boone dashed Manny Trillo, their playoffMVP, down nicely. He was perhaps a career, retired the first seven home, making it 4-2. beat out a single behind second batter away from being knocked Walk-on tryouts for the men's batters he faced on was sitting on Pete Rose was the next batter base. When Leonard bounced a out in the third when a two-outvarsity basketball team will be the 4-0 lead with one out in the and got into a cat-and-mouse pickoff throw past first baseman walk to Porter and hits by Otisheld tonight at 7:30 in the ACC third when Larry Bowa stroked contest with Leonard, stepping Aikens for an error, Trillo took and Clint Hurdle threatened topit. Those interested in trying the first Phillies hit, a single up out ofthe box to try to break the second. Bowa grounded out, but increase the Royals' lead to 5-0.
out should come ready to play. 
the middle. pitcher's concentration. Leonard Boone delivered again, this time 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m.. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classlfieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail.
Classifieds 
Siamese Siamese twin: 
Wonted ONE Army GA or student lie. SEE THE MICHAEL STANLEY BAND IN 
Congratulations (belatedly) 101
Mark 288-0734 otter 11:00 CONCERT AT SMC... and be a 
making varsity crew. Good luck In 
Notices Wanted 
believer In midwest rock 'n' roll.
Need 8 G.A. ARMY Tlx • Please call your first race-I'll be "pulling" for 
Mary Pal at 8091 Is that a real po,.,cho or a Sears you! Hope you get some rest over OVERSEAS JOBS: Desperately need RIDE TO DENVER -----­
Summer/year break so we con E.B.F.S.G.N.C. when
pancho?round Europe, S. Amer., Australia, FOR FAll BREAK Will shore even the we get bock. Isn't there a pillar In
DIIUGS CAN BE PURCHASED WITH THE 
·FZ

MEGABUCKS I Will PAY FOil ARMY
Alia. All fields $500-$1200 monthly. unusual. Please call meat 1142 and your room?
GA TIX CAll PAT 8606
Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free ask lor Bill. CHARLOTTE MAKES THE BEST MILK­
ATTN. N.D. MALES:
Info. Write: IJC, aox 52-IN 4, Corona NEED 3 G.A. TICKETS FOil ARMY SHAKES IN THE WORLD Ill 
Helpl Need ride for 2 coming Mary Pol Ziolkowski celebrates
Del Mar, CA 92625. GAME CAll RAY 272-9978
bock to ND from Central NJ over THE CLEVELAND CLUB her 2111 birthday lodoy and will be MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student Break! Call 3193. NEED ARMY TIXIIIII Will PAY TOP IS HAVING A MEETING distributing birthday kisses all day loans $20-$200. One percenl DOLLARII CAll JOE AT 234-5782 WEDNESDAY AT 6:30 In 410 lewiS. For reservations call 
I m't'd two Armv .rtmll'llf tkkt'l.r. p/,•,m·
lnlerfll. Due In 30 days. One doy BETWEEN ON THE SECOND FLOOR 8091. You'll be glad you did. wall. Open M-F 11:30-12:30. Final "'" M11rk 1117471. 
OF LAFORTUNE.
NEED 1ARMY GA TICKET CALL RANDY Steve Blatt, application day before break Is Need ride back tram Bulfalo-G.I. All INTERESTED -PLEASE COMEI
AT 1441 This Is just to remind you thai youOct. 16. 
Sunday, Oct. 26. Will share...elc. 
HARTZEl!, LIFE IS ROUGH WHEN YOUR do Indeed hove on honest to God
NEEDED TIX FOil ARIZONA GAME
I AM IN DIRE NEED OF A RIDE TO Call Steve Miller, 7791. neah and blood slater here ol N.D.
OVER THE Hill, THIRTY YEARS OLD IS A
CAll JIM -8700

ARIZONA FOil THE SEMESTER BREAK You know, the one who was the lost 
Need riders to Boca llalon-Fort BITTER Pllll 
PLEASE HELP JOHN 277-5042 HELP person on THE ENTII!Ii CAMPUS TO
lauderdale area for Fall break. Call ED O'MALLEY HAPPY BIRTHDAY.
DESPERATELY IN NEED OF AIIMY TIX FIND OUT YOU GOT ACCEPTED TO
Will do typing. Neal, accurate, Steve 232-1978. 
TOM -1631 GOOD LUCK TODAY.. . MED SCHOOLII congratulations.
experienced. Reasonable rates. 
NEED RIDE FROM CLEVELAND AREA GO IRISH SOCCEII...KICK GRASS Maybe I'll see you In that house
Call 287-5162. 
Need Jwo consecutive GA's for
TO NOTRE DAME AFTER OCTOBER AND BEAT BOWLING GREEN! where we live over break. (you
Army game John 1612
BASEBAll CARD SHOW, NOV. 1, BREAK. SHARE EXPENSES. CAll PAT remember mom and dad)
IMPORTANT INFO FOR
QUALITY INN, DOWNTOWN SO. BEND, 8606. BRUCE needs tickets, students love.
REPUBLICANS: DAN QUAYLE,
9 A.M. TO o4 P.M. FOOTBAll, BSKBAll and GA's. Do God a favor. Call Jeanine' (your sister I'm sure the
-CARDS. N.D. PROGRAMS, SPORT 
Get your ASH out In Oregon. 2 riders REPUBLICAN CANDIDATE FOil U.S.
John at 8553 other one got a call) MAGAZINES,ETC. BUY. SEll, TRADE. wonted. 180/186 WEST & 15 NORTH SENATE Will SPEAK WEDNESDAY, INFO. 255-1738. Call Charlie 1247 or Greg 1153. Will PAY PRACTICALLY ANYTHING OCTOBER 15 AT 6:45 PM IN THE Need ride to Buffalo,N.Y. lor break. 
Round trip only. FOR 2-4 GA'S FOR ARMY GAME • GALVIN LIFE SCIENCE AUDITORIUM. Please call 277-3575 and ask for TICKETS! TICKETS! TICKETS! CAll GREG 8433 PLEASE ATTENU. Drew. con leave Thursday alter 5 I need many tickets! Students and NEED IllDEliS TO K.C.. MO., FOil BREAK p.m.Help! I need 1 o 2 GA or student
GA's for Army. Call John at 8553. CALL RICK 1932 REPUBLICANS: DAN QUAYLE, llckels for Army. Call 8914. NAZZ TONIGHT: Special sneak
REPUBLICAN CANDIDATE FOil U.S.
NEED RIDE TO SPRINGFIELD ll on
LA MESA ESPANOLA South Dining preview, just before OPEN STAGE at
I need a pair of GA's lor Army. Call SENATE TO SPEAK TONIGHT AT 6:4~ IN
Thursday, Oct 16 after 4 PM Will
Hall aliado derecho, a Ia derecho. nine.
3245. GALVIN AUDITORIUM. BE THERE!!
share gas and expenses Call Bob
Van y come con Ius companeros 1066 
P.S. Dump Birch Boyhl ZJGGY CZAIIOBSKI FOR ATHLETIC
los jueves a las 12:00. Nos vemosl ARE YOU SICK OF THE CAFETERIA 
DIRECTOR
FOOD? I will cook you a home­Mike O'Connor and Rick Thomas,
help! Need a ride to NYC area. CallST. LOUIS FOR BREAK? Drivers and 
Chris ol 7838. cooked ITALIAN DINNER If you can This Is a PROMISE ·In writing. I Need ride lo Boston! Will shore
riders call 3479 for possible arrange­
provide me with two GA's lor the promise I will see Groce win tonlghll expenses. Leave any lime after ments. Sponsored by S.l. Club. 
wonted 3 riders to plllsbugh area little Goose
AIIMY game. Call 4581 and ask for Thursday. Call Mike at 3488. to shore expenses lvg frl 4450
THE NEW JERSEY CLUB !SHAVING A Teresa S. 
TUTORS NEEDED: 
THE NEW JERSEY CLUB IS HAVING ASEND-OFF PARTY FOR ITS MEMBEI!SIII 
Need a ride to BUFFALO for break 1. High school student In
HELPIII Need 2 0114 G.As In a greal BASH FOil ITS MEMBEIISIII IT Will BEIT Will BE HELD ON THURSDAY NIGHT after a test on Frldoy. Call Rich at Ecdrlomlcs.
secllon... rlch alum wanls ARMY... HELD ON THURSDAY NIGHT OCTOBER 
OCTOBER 16 BEGINNING AT 8PM IN 1739 or 1737 2. High school Sophomore In
AIIMY...AI!MY...IIckels. Call BOB at 16 BEGINNING AT 8 P.M. IN THE
THE FlANNEl! HAll COMMONER. SO Geometry.RIDERS NEEDED TO MILWAUKEE FOil 1506 
FLANNEl! HAll COMMONER. COMECOME ON All YOU NEW JEIISEYIANS, 3. 17 yr. old boy, general tutoring. 
ON OUT AND PARTY WITH YOURBREAK. CAll PAUL 8916
START YOUR OCTOBER BREAK IN STYLE Need 2 ARMY G.A's. Call John, 4. 21 yr. old In Physics and 
FRIENDS FROM N.J. START YOUR need a one-way ride BACK TO 1773. Advanced Algebra. 
OCTOBER BIIEAK IN STYLE! 
Contact Volunteer Services, 7308 HEY All YOU NEW JEIISEYIANS · N.D. fROM LONG ISLAND alter Family To See Army Muled. Still 
break. (10/25, 10/26). Bob 3113 Need 2 GAs or Sludenl. Call Bob SMC Freshmen -Please slop by COME TO AN OCTOBER BREAK SEND­
Lost&Found 
3244

Needed: ride bock from Muncie, the "frosh chaf' lo meet YOUR 
OFF PARTY SPONSORED BY THE NEW IN on Sunday Oct, 26th. Please call freshman council. Wednesday,
For sale: 2 ArmyGA's-best offer JERSEY CLUB. IT Will BE ON THURSDAY
LOST: Block lab-Doberman 
lee Anne at 277-7554. Oct. 15, Regina South lounge from
by thursday. Call 6276. NIGHT OCTOBEII16 BEGINNING AT 8 puppy Block coal with while spol 9:00 to 10:00, Refreshments will be 
P.M. IN THE FlANNEl! HAll served.
on chest, female. Call John, 234-1will trade all THREE of my sisters for Need 1 ticket to Army game. Call 
COMMONER. COME ON OUT AND
a ride back from Plllsburgh alter fall
3394. Jenny -7193. 
START YOUR OCTOBER BREAK IN STYLE
break. I'll also share expenses, etc. What a scandollll 
BLUE BACK-PACK MISSING FIIOM If you can help, call Tim at 8706. PLEASE: Need 12 ARMY TICKETS for Patty Reider and leslie Mulligan 
SMC. SOUTH DINING HAll. NEED NOTE­lulheran Bay's Group. Will poy never get calls !rom boys, for no 
Happy Flounder's Daylll
lllde needed to Detroit area (TroY)
BOOKS (AND BOOKS) REWARD IF reasonable requests. ph. 7443 real reason. Men, you con rectify
tor October break. Call Tom 8478 or 12 wild 'n' crazy women stranded at
RETURNED. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. lhis heinous situation, call them at 8504. NEED 2 ARMY GA'SI JOHN 1850 ND for X-lra nile al break · need
CAll8901 1283, day or nlghl.$$$$$ heavy party action Sot. nile oiler
NEED RIDE back to ND after break for
LOST: A blue sweal jacket In Room Army game. Know where the ocllon
two !rom ST. LOUIS area. Will drive, Need 5 GA Army for alumni friends. NEWS BULLETIN:
201 In Business Building on Oct. 6. If will be on Oct. 18? Call Diane al
pay lot got, ete. CoHMikeal6765. Your roving moose reporter has
Good$. (3479)

found, please call Mike -1615. 78951
learned thai those lewd nursing
.WANTED All NEW JEIISEYIANS TO
Thank you. 
NEED TWO ARMY GA'S FOil MAD CITY majo11 over at SMC engage In a
START THEIR BREAK IN STYLE. COME TO It's GREAT here • I LOVE 1111 Does KP LOST: Block rosary In leather case. A NEW JERSEY CLUB BASH ON FRIENDS. CALL JEFF 232-0982. rather unique form of training, In really have quarler rolls? AB Is a 
Please call 4213 or 2241. OCTOBER 16 BEGINNING AT 8 P.M IN conjunction wllh SPONGE BATHS cleptol Really LT, half of Morrisey? THE FlANNEl! HAll COMMONER. 101 lhey practice washing each You MUST be tired? Only a 
In desperate need or two GA or 
Sludenlllckets to ARMY GAMEl Call 
FOUND: 100 dozen teaspoons In COME ON OUT TO PARTY WITH YOUII other. My word how kJnkyl But then SOUTHERNER would do II with their
Mary Anne (SMC) 4027.
SOH. Conlocl Mr. Lyster, SOH. you know what they soy about
FRIENDS FROM N.J. grandma! DT tarantula forever need army llx call Tom at 232-2427 nurses... (dq.es II really gobble hall
Lost: Blue windbreaker In EE lab prelldents?) Mom & Dad don't shut
on Monday. II found, please call Helpless female will give almost dave and dad, 
two doors tor nothing! Let's hear II for
Tickets
6840. ANYTHING for a sludenlllc Ia Army Here are happy birthdays. 
the universal food sales account · 
gomell Call Diane at 78951 One to the best lather a daughter rmbrokelll
WHO HAS 3 GA AIIMY TIX? 1NEED could ever have and the other to 
THEM. CALL TIM 1633 the sweetest little brolher (and Dione. football ployer) a slater could ever So you soy you con oct? But how Family comlngll Need 3 G.A Army erson S hope for. 1miss you and send my will you ploy In Peoria? 2 room apl. $50 mo. Near. 233-lilt Call Joe 1840. _ love. 
For Rent p a1 
Ryan 1329. Need six G.A llx. for Army logether. Someone you care about • a The Mexican member of lhe family Call Mike 8760. P.S. love to the rest of the family ATTENTION: In dire need of female 
FOIIIIENT: Ugly Duckling llent-A-Car. lrlend, a family member -have a companionship during October Priced from $7.95 a doy and seven NEED 2 GA TIX FOil ALABAMA GAME. drinking problem? Join us. AI Like, In the Minneapolis area and look· break. Will provide room ond cents a mile. Phone 255-2323 for Call Mary 7220. ext. 8809. lng for a FRIENDLY girl? Call <612> board wllh no strings attached. reservations. 544-5747 and ask for Adrienne. Call "Big" AI, 7838 
~~~~--------------------------------------------~~~~----------~~------~ 
• 

By Pa11l M11llaney Edtlor-in-Chief 
Eugene F. Corrigan was offi­cially announced as Notre 1 Dame's new athletic director vesterday, confirming reports printed in Saturday's Obse1wr fi>llowing the resignation of Ldward W. (Moose) Krause. 
Corrigan's appointment was annonced by Fr. Edmund P. joyce. exec~tive vice-president·,>f the University and chairman of the school's Faculty Board in Control of Athletics. 
Corrigan, who has served as ;tthletic director at the University .,f Virginia since 1971, will 
·.ssume his new duties onJanuary 'i, 19H I. At that time Krause will senT in an emeritus role until the end ofJune. 
At Virginia, Corrigan was cred­ited with the rapid developmen ofa solid athletic program whid inuuded the addition of 1( women's sports. He also directec .tmulti-million dollar renovatior pmgram which encompassed ~ new baseball stadium, a tartan surface track. expanded tenni: tiu:ilities, a new intramural recre .ttion complex and an addition o: !4,000 seats to Scott (football: Stadium. 
The expansion and growth o: Virginia's athletic program~ largely was financed by fund· raising activities directed b) Corrigan. 
"I am sad to be leaving a great institution," Corrigan said. "But I :1m thrilled with the opportun· itj to become associated with tht University of Notre Dame. 

"I am extremely impressed with the sense ofcommunity one feels at Notre Dame, and I have always respected the excellent academic and athletic traditions there. Both Virginia and Notre Dame have a similar philosophy regarding the conduct of inter­collegiate athletics and the type of stu<:lent-athlete accepted for admission." 
Joyce indicated that Notre Dame feels "very fortunate to be able to attract an athletic admin­istrator of Gene's ability, exper­ience and vision." He added that "fntercollegiate athletics every­where are facing some difficult times and we are confident Gene' will provide the type of leadership necessary in maintain­ing a well-roun~ed and fiscally­sound program. 
Corrigan, a 53-year-old grad­uate of Duke, served as assistant commissioner of the Atlantic Coast Conference prior to as­suming the job as athletic direc­tor at Washington and Lee. 
He also coached soccer, bas­ketball and lacrosse during a nine-year stint at Virginia. 
Corrigan and his wife, Lena, are parents of seven children. 
Krause, athletic director at Notre Dame for the past 31 years, announced his resignation Friday after news of Corrigan's appointment had leaked in Charlottesville, Va. 
Phillies tease Royals in closew· 
PHILADELPHIA (AP)-the opening game assignment 
Bake McBride hammered a because of the scrambled condi­
three-run homer and Bob Boone tion of the Phillies pitching staff 
rifled a pair ofRBI doubles as the after the grueling National 
Philadelphia Phillies stormed League playoff series against 
from behind for a 7-6 victory Houston. 
over a battling Ka.r>sas City team Walk, recovering from a rocky 
last night in the 1980 World start, did a gallant job against the 
Series opener. . Royals, champions of the Amer­
A crowd of 65,791, largest to ican League, until he was shelled 
watch a World Series game since out in the eighth inning. He be­
1964, kept up a steady roar as the came the first rookie to pitch and 
Phillies won their first Series win a Series opener since Joe 
game in 65 years. The last one Black did it for the Brooklyn 
was won in I 915 when the pit­Dodgers in 1952. 
cher was Hall of Farner Grover It was a night for newcomers as 
Cleveland Alexander. the expansion team Royals made 
Last night, the winning pitcher their first World Series appear­
was a 23-year-old rookie, Bob ance, the Phillies played their 
Walk, who begar. the season in first Series game since 1950, and 
the minors and was pressed into (crmtimted on page 15) 
Wednesday ,October 15 , 1980 -page 16 
I 
rish / by Bill tems Marquard 
WHO ARE THESE GUYS?-When senior Jim Stone 
topped the 200 yard mark against Miami onSaturday, it marked 
the first time in Notre Dame's illustrious football history that 
any individual(s) gained over 200 yards rushing in two straight 
games. 
In fact, prior to 1977 no Irish rusher had ever gained 200 yards 
in a single game." The first to accomplish that feat wasJerome 
Heavens, who gained an even 200 yards against Army in 1977. 
Heavens' backfield mate, Vagas Ferguson, gained 219 yards at 
Cleveland Stadium against Navy in 1978 and set a school record 
by rushing for 25 5 yards at Georgia Tech in 1978 (despite the 
dead fish). 
Miami's rushing defense certainly did not live up to its top­
ranked reputation, since the Irish rushing attack gained almost 
five times as many yards as the Hurricanes had given up in their 
first four games (302 yards for the Irish to 62 previously for 
Miami), and Stone himself almost quadrupled their pre-game 
total. 
But just as Miami's reputation took a dive, the respect for 
Notre Dame's previously-unheralded offensive line has certain­
ly risen across the country. The Irish are currently rated lOth 
nationally with 274.0 yards rushing per game. 
The Irish defense also gave the Hurricanes a taste oftheir own 
medicine, allowing only 42 yards on the turf while making ten 
tackles for negative yardage. Notre Dame's defense against the 
rush is rated 14th in the country with a 114.7 mean. 
AT THE FOOT OF THE PACK-Harry Oliver's four field goal effort and 14-point total against Miami not only equaled the team records he set against Michigan State the previous weekend, but they also vaulted him into sole possession offirst place in NCAA field goal ratings with a 2.5 per game average. Florida State's Bill Capece is second with a 2.3 mean. 
Oliver is also fifth in the country, averaging 10 points per game. With 40 points thus far, he is more than halfway to the team record for season scoring by a placekicker, Dave Reeve having set the standard of 75 points in 1977. 
Oliver's 10-for-11 field goal efficiency puts him well within reach ofChuck Male's school record of1 3 field goals in a season, set last-year. 
.r!nals tonight 

JVovice boxers preparefor Bengals 
The finals of this year's novice ~.. Jxing tournament will be held lJtnorrow night at 8:00 at the 
1 CC boxing room. 
fhe novice boxers, who are P· eparing for this spring's Bengal H .>Ut competition, began the t<Jurnament with first-round :")Uts on Mondav. Winners ad­'"1nced to toml)rrow's compe-
Jdon. 
:\mong the top fights expec­rt·d is the 187-pound title fight, pitting Mike Frawley against ~)ave Sassano. both of whom .\:corded second-round TK.Os • d1 Mondrrv. 
Anothe~ top fight should be ne Paul Fazio-1\lark Loman bat­e in the 165-pound division. ..azio floored his opponent with ·.is first punch on Monday, then 
.mtinued with a flurry later in 
he match for a TKO victory. 
In the 147-pound category, 
_.fty Tom Shaughnessy will face ,(evin Drainsfield. Shaughnessy ->on his fight on Monday with a rhird-round knock-out. 
Other fights on tap for tomor­row include: ;­130-pound; Robert Araki vs. Brian Bergin. 135~pound; Chris Barber vs. Kevin Onarato. 
140-pound; Mike Esser vs. John Conaghan. -143-pound; Tony Crocco vs. Hugh Griffith. 
I50-pound; Steve Bradshaw 
s. Mike Doyle. 
1 54-pound; Pete Guilfoyle vs. Pat Durba. 1 58-pound; Billy Kane vs. Ed Bulliet. 170-pound; Greg Brophy vs. Mike Cray. Heavyweight; Scott Stearney vs. Pete Wuellner. 
"The novices have been train­ing hard for six weeks now,,.. said Notre Dame Boxing Club Pres­ident Michael Pullano. "Last year most. of the novices did really well in the spring Bengal Bouts, many of them winning their di­visions." 

"And this year's novices look even better," he continued. "There's an awful lot of talent out there." 
A small admission fee for to­morrow's bouts will be collected, and forwarded to the Holy Cross missions in Bengladesh. 

THE RATING GAME-Sophomore running back Phil Carter did not "lose any ground'' in NCAA rushing standings despite watching Saturday's game from the press box. Since rushers are ranked on a yards-per-game basis, Carter main­tained his 166.3 rushing mark, good for second nationally. However, the nation's top-rated rusher, Nebraska's Jar~is Redwine, was also sidelined by injury last weekend and mam­tained his .2 yard edge over Carter. 
Since Army is a less-than-formidible opponent and S~one proved to be such a reliable back, it is unlikely that Carter w11l be pressed into service this weekend whi.le his severely b:uised thigh heals. If that is the case, Carter w!ll no longer quahfy for NCAA rankings since he must have played in a minimum of75 percent ofthe team's games. Should Carter.return.to the.lineup for the Arizona game, he could not quahfy agam unt1l after Georgia Tech. 
THE LONG GREY LINE VS. THE BIG GREEN ONE­
Notre Dame enjoys a 31-8-4 edge in the all-time series with 
Army, and the Irish have won seven straight contests. Only five 
games in the rivalry, which was contested annually in Yankee 
Stadium from 1925 to 1946, have been played in the Notre 
Dame Stadium. The Irish have won four ofthose five, with a 14­
2 Army victory in 1958 standing as the last Cadet win in the 
series . 
TAMING THE WILDCATS-Looking ahead to break, the Irish will be facing the Arizona Wildcats for. only the .second time ever on October 25th. In their only prev10us meetmg, the Irish prevailed 38-7 here in South Bend. 
OUT OF THE MOUTHS QF BABES-When Corby Smith, the 7-year old son of Arizona head coach Larry Smith, saw his dad's football schedule for the upcoming season, he asked with wide eyed amazement: "Dad, is that the real Notre Dame?" 
ALABAMA SHOULD STILL TRY IT~ NCAA ratings released prior to the weekend revealed thatNotre Dame has the 14th toughest schedule in the country this year. Irish foes h~ve amassed a .588 winning percentage (30-19-2) when not playmg Notre Dame. 




