'The Absutder '-Pages 7-10 


Dr. joseph Scott lectured to
N.D. racism ... students last night. 

Scott finds prejudice 
by Annmarie Storz StaffReporter 
Dr. Joseph Scott, Prof. of Sociology, spoke to a group ofabout 50 students last night in Grace Hall about "Racism at Notre Dame." Scott'said that Notre Dame is "more committed to its constituency than to its ideals." The constituency is the financial and industrial olibarcl-·y which supports ND. 
· Notre Dame is interested in becoming one of the ten biggest schools in the country in terms of endowment--in becoming part of the power elite, pan of the society which oppresses the poor," Scort said. 
There are only 160 black undergraduates here along with_ "eight 
or nine" black faculty members Notre Dame does very 1_1\tle for 
blacks and other minorities yet Cllllects awards and recogmtwn for 
what it does not do, Scott said. 
Scott attacked the dishonesty and duplicity of the institution for 
this policy. "It looks to me that Notre Dame is much more 
interested in rich Catholics than in poor Catholics" Scott said. 

The issue of the black and minority sit.uation cannot be debated through the press, according to Scott, because "lies consistent with Notre Dame's image will be the reaction." "Notre Dame can create any kind of image it wants to for its public," said Scott. 
There are two forms of racism at Notre Dame--institutional and 
personal--Scott said. At the_ instir_utional level, Notre I?i!-me 
presents an image contrary to tts acuons. In enrollment, hmng, 
and promotion, blacks will encounter racism from the administra­
tion, the faculty. and the student body, he charged. 
[continued on page 6] 


18% inflation · 
. Prices continue upwardspiral 
WI' ;HINGTON (AP) -Con­
su·ner price~ in February 
ju npf"d 1.4 percent for a 
seconrl straight month, provid­
ing 11c-w signs that inflation 
was St'ttling tn at an 18 percent 

aunual rate. government fig .ures showed yesterday. As a result of the latest rist· .i. th · Consumer Price Index, 
t: ,e buying power of the aver­age l.mencan wage earner feilby a ·eco,-d 7 3 pt'rcent during the previous i2 months, the government said in a separate report. 
A top Carter administraticon inflation adviser called the new figures a "v~ry ·ominous rrend,'' and said consumer prices will continue to rise at nearly the same rate for sever­al months as recent hikes in interest rates and wholesale energy prices show up at the consumer level. 
But R. Robert Russell, direc­tor -,f the Council on Wage and 


Kennedy defeats Carter in East 
NEW York (AP) -Sen. Edward M. Kennedy upset President Carter in the New York and Connecticut primary elections last ,.ight, revttalizing }is challenge for the _White House aud silencing the Dt>mocrMo;; who had suggested he quit. 
New York gave Kennedy 
more than a victory, it gave 
him a surprise landslide. 
Former U.N. Ambassador 
George Bush won the Repub­
lican primary in Connecticut, 
gaining a comeback of his own. 
But Reagan supporters won 
the ma)onty of New York GOP 
delegates, to swell his already 
commanding lead in nation­
wide nominating strength. 
Bush, in Milwaukee, said the 
Connecticut victory bodes well 
for him in Wisconsin next 
Tuesday. "It looks to me like I 
was getting my point across,'' 
he said. "If it made a 
difference tpere it will make a 
difference here.'' 
Reagan, in Longview, Tex., 
said he never thought he'd 
win Connecticut, "it being 
George's territory." Bush won 
by five percentage points. 
The Kennedy camp, accus­
tomed by now to almost weekly 
defeats, finally had something 
to celebrate: Kennedy's six 
percentage point victory in 
Connecticut and his 16-point 
lead in New York. 
Kennedy said the New York 
and Connecticut voters ''were 
sending a very clear and 
powerful message...that they 
can no longer afford an infla­
tion rate of 18 percent and 
interest rates that match." 
He said he would "travel 
across this country renewed 
with the expressions of confi­
dence and support, P returning 
to New York in the summer 
where he predicted victory at 
the Democratic convention. 
"The bubble's burst for Jimmy Carter," said Tom Southwick, Kennedy's spokesman. He said Kennedy's victories would be an enormous boost for fuod­ratsmg. 
Republican Reagan said New York "certainly is going to quiet those people who are telling Kennedy he ought to get out of the race.'' 
At the White House, press secretary J ody Powell congrat­ulated Kennedy. He said yesterday's losses would not lead Carter to begin campaign-
Price Stability, ~.aid :1e believed inflation woulr. not get any worse, and would begin declin­ing later this year. He based his forecast on the assumption that surging increases in gaso­line prices would level off and interest rates would decline fro their record levels. 
F.~bruary.'s report, based on price changes occurring before President Carter unveiled his 
[continued on page 6] 
ing actively. And he insisted that the challenger still faces a difficult struggle to overtake Carter. 
He said the defeats were due at •least in' part to Carter's decision to balance the budget and to the controvercy over tne administration's U.N. vote crit­ical of Israel. 
Carter campaign chairman, Robert Strauss, said the Tuesday primaries were "only a dip in the road'· that will lead to Carter's renomination. 
Even in · double defeat, Carter was gaining delegate strength, and in that column, he holds a nationwide lead Kennedy will find difficult to 
[continued on page 6] 


Thefts raise question of university lia~ility 
by Tom Koegel Senior StaffReporter 
Thefts last month in Walsh and Lewis Halls by a tem­porary maid have raised ques­
tions  about  the  University's  
liability.  
Dean  of  Students  James  

Roemer informed Lewis Resi­dent Gail Warapius yesterday that the University would not be able to assume responsibili­ty for the $60 that was stolen from her room last February 15th, according to Warapius. 
"Dean Roemer said that he had talked to the Univf"rsity legal counsel, and that the counsel had taken the position that the employer is not re­sponsible for what the em­ployee does outside the duties of their job," Warapius said. 
Roemer was not immediately available for comment. 
A temporary maid admitted stealing money from Walsh rooms on February 14th, and from Lewis rooms the next day, accotding to Walsh Resident Monica Morin. ND Security confirmed Morin's account. 
Morin said that Walsh rector Sr. Kathleen Rossman told her that the maid had confessed the thefts, and that the maid was going to accept the respon­sibility to repay the victims. 
Rossman would not comment on the theft' reports. 
Morin doubts, h,1wever, that she will receiye any payment. ''The maid was extremely poor, and any thought of getting my money back is just a pipe dream," she said. 
The University's assistant le­gal counsel, Timothy McDevitt, noted that the University would only be responsible in a case of negligence in hiring. 
•• If it could be proven, for example, that the University hired someone who had been fired at IUSB for theft, that would indicate negligence and responsibility, but otherwise the University is not responsi­ble," McDevitt said. 
Lewis residents Warapius and her Foommate, Janet Caruso, hoped to have the Universiaty reimburse them for their losses and assume responsibility for obtaining the money from the maid, who has since been dismissed. 
Roemer indicated to Warapius that the University could not do this as it would set a trouble­some precedent for the future. 
In another recent case of theft, involving a srudem's laundry stolen from a laundry drop, the University quite ob­viously is not respol'sible, ac­cording to M..:Devitt. 
''The rules that stLdents at Notre Dame live by, those in DuLac, quite dearly state that the University 'cannot assume any responsibility for lauadry items until they are received by the laundry,' and that the laundry drops are provided as a convenience to the student," McDevitt said. 
"If a student wants to be absolutely sure that the laun­dry is not stolen, he can take it ' to the laundry and check it in,'' McDevitt noted. 
To those students who may be leaving expensive stereos or televisions behind during break, it sho~ld be noted that McDevitt points out that "the University is only responsible to exercise reasonable care in preventing thefts,'' and is not legally responsible for Ihos~· thefts that do occu~. 

Have a good breakI 




News in brief 
Wednesday, March 26, 1980 -page 2 
Dominican guerillas release threefrom seized embassy 
Leftist guerrillas who have occupied the Dominican Republic Embassy for 28 days released three of their 32 hostages yesterday. All three are Columbian civilians. The men walked out of the embassy at 3:3 5 p.m., carrying small bundles that appeared to be clothing. Military sources outside the embassy identified the men as Torge Caicedo, Jorge Cendales and Fernando Betancur,Columbiancitizens who are not diplomats bur were attending the diplomatic reception at the embassy when it was seized Feb. 27. U.S. Ambassador Diego Asencio is among the 29 hostages remaining, wh'o include 19 diplomats of ambassadorial rank. 
Inmates seize county jail; threaten to kill nine hostages 
NEWARK, N.J. (AP)-Inmatts at the £ss•·x Cllumy J&Il took nine people hostage and briefly hung one of them out a lOth floor window xesterday after ~n inma1e s~ot and wounded a corrections officer. Two of the hostages 'Nerc: releas~·d last night. One inmated, Tht'odore Brov. n, ~urrc: ndered a few hours after the trouble broke out and was acting as a go-between for negotiations betwe.:n 1he inmate~ and authorities, officials said. There was confusion over the number of guards being held hostage Authorities said the inmates had demands, bUI officials would nor -;ay what they were. The inmates, shouting obsc("nitit·s, .hreatened to throw the hostages out the jail's lOth floor windo·vs. 
Mayo Clinic begins studies on laetrile as acancercure 
ROCHESTER, Minn. (AP) -The first phase of :.t major study on the effects of the controversial substance Laetrile -which supporters say cures cancer -began this week at the Mayo Clmic here. Kristin Gunderson, Mayo spokeswoman, said the first patient began rc:-ceiving Laetrile on Monday and another five parienrs would be srart<·d on Laetrile within "several weeks." Three patients will receive oral Laetrile and three will get it intravencusly, she said. Each patient.. must receive Laetrile for from sevc:·n to 21 days in a test of possible toxicity demanded by the National Cancer Institute, which is sponsoring the study. All of the patients are volunteers for whom standard cancer therapy has failed, she said. Laetrile, a substance which occurs naturally in the pits of apricots and other fruits, is believed by some to cure cancer. But others, including most docrors, s:ty it is not a cancer cure. 

Weather 
. Considerable cloudiness through tomorrow. Highs today 10 the low 40s. Overnight lows in the low 30s. HighstornP•Tow in the mid 40s. 


Cam--
s 
1-3 pm EXHIBITION indiana u. sculpture ISIS GALLERY 
old fieldhouse. 
4 pm COLLOQUIUM "phenomenology and the 'Stll'iological rradition," dr. herman coenen, catholic u. of rilburg, netherlands. MEM. LIBRARY AUD. 
4:.\0 pm LECTURE "the politics of poetry,·· prof. sean lucr. u. college cork, ireland. MEMORIAL LIBRARY AUD. spons..b>' "poetry and politics in ireland and indiana symposium. 
7, 9, II pm FILM ''barbarella'' spons. by pi sigma alpha. ENGR AUD. 
8 pm LECTURE '"community' as a fundamental economic strategy," gar alperovitz, dir. nat'! ctr. for economic alternatives. GALVIN AUD. spons. by econ dept. 
8:15 pm CONCDRT "notre dame woodwind quintet." LIBRARY AUD. spons. by dept. of music. 
PARSlPPANY, N.J. (AP) 
General Public Utilities Corp. 
filed a $500 million negligence 
suit Tuesday against ·he manu­
facturer of the cripf-. =-d Three 
Mile Island Reac tor. 
The· action came three days 
before the first anniversary of 
the worst accident in the 
history of American commer­
cial nuclear energy. · 
The suit, filed in federal court 
in New York City, charges 
Babcock & Wilcox Co. with 
gross negligence and failin8' to 
abide by its contractual obliga­
tion to provide written proce­
dures and training services 
necessary for the operation of 
the plant. 
Also named as a defendant 
was J. Ray McDermott & Co. 
Inc., parent company of Bab­
cock & Wilcox. 
One of two reactors at Three 
Mile Island, a $1.3 billion 
complex near Harrisburg, Pa., 
was damaged in the March 28, 
1979 nuclear accident. The 
complex remains closed, al­
though the other r~actor was 
not damaged. 
William G. Kuhns, chairman of the Parsippany-based Gen­eral Public Utilities, said the utility ''firmly believes that the proximate cause of the accident was the failure of Babcock & Wilcox to provide, as it was contractually obligated to, pro­per procedures and training to the utility's operators in order for them to respond promptly and correctly." 
McDermott Chairman James 

E. Cunningham said the com­pany was not liable for the accident. 
''We don't feel we have any liability for this accident ... un­der our contractual obliga­tions," Cunningham said in a telephone interview from his 
~The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Danny "Don the Beachcomber'' Tarullo A ,-st. Night Editcrs: Mike J ans, Mary Leavitt Copy Editor: Maribnh Moran, Sal "A.lgusta GA" Granata Layout Staff Patty Sheehan News Editor: Mike Shields Editon'al Layout: Greg Hedges Features Layout: Sal "Vicenza Calling" Granata Sports Layout: Tom Schuster Typists: Mike Galvin, Paula "Yes, I still live in Walsh" Shea, Kathy "Off to Arizona" Murray EMT: Kim Proofreader: John Chausee ND Day Editor: Mary "Never Again" Leavitt Ad Design: Anne Fink Supplement Layout: Rose Mills Photographer: Ken Berumen Guest Appearances: John, Mark, Margie, Pam, Paul, 
John, Ryan, Neil, John, Diane, Mark, Mike, Kevin ''I never make the staff box" Manion ... but NO ANN!!! 
The Ollllrvtr [USPS • 9211) Is publiallld Monday tllraugll Frtdly II· capt duriRG nam allllvatilll ...-... The Observer is. publilllld 119 till atudlnts If Nltrl o.. _, lllat Mary's C....... Sublcr.,._ -rIll 1111rdlaud llr sa Pill' year 11• 111r 
lllflllltar!IIWII The Observer. ft.D. IIIII 0, Nltrl ba1111, llldllu ... 1.-1 ella Jllltltll paid, Nltrl DIIM, I• diaRI 41&51. 
The Observer II a,...... II die ~tid ""-· All ,...... rigllb lrl f'IIIMCI . 


Groupfiles action against TMI 
New Orleans office. He said 
McDermott plans to ''vi~orous­
ly defend our position.' 
General Public, owner of TMI and Metropolitan Edison, which operates the Pennsyl­vania nuclear plant, is seeking in excess of $500 million for d~.mages to date, as well as "very substantial damages" it anticipates. • 
The 24-page suit charges Bab­cock & Wilcox with "gross negligence, strict liability for equipment failure, intentional breach of contract and breach of express and implied warran­ties" in connection with the nuclear accident. 
The utility said rhe operating procedures and training for routine and emergency condi­tions provided by Babcock & 

Wilcox were "incorrect, incom­
plete and inapt;>ropriate to the 
system" and misled the plant's 
operators. 

The suit also charged Babcock & Wilcox knew that the infor­mation it had supplied to reactor operators was insuffi­cient because of an accident that had occurred at another system supplied by Babcock & Wilcox at the Davis-Besse plant ofToledo Edison in Ohio. 
The utility alleged Babcock & Wilcox knew that if an accident similar to that which occurred at Davis-Besse took place at a nuclear plant operating at or near full power "it was prob­able rhat the nuclear core would cease to be covered by water and that serious fuel damage Wlluld result.'· 
SUNDAY MASSES AT SACRED HEART CHURCH 
5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin. C.S.C. 
9:00a.m. Sunday Rev. John VanWolvlear, C.S.C. 
10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. Leonard Banas, C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.G. 
7:15p.m. Vespers Rev. leonard Banas, C.S.C. 

campus PALMSUNDA'Y 

miniStry 


THELITURGIESOFHOLYWE K 
1980 
SACREDHEARTCHURCH NOTRE DAME du LAC 

PASSION(Palm) SUNDAY 
9:00AM-Mass 

10:00AM-Solemn Liturgyof the Lords Entrance into Jerusalem 12:15PM-Mass 7:15PM-Vespers 
HOLY THURSDAY 

9:00AM-Mo~Prayer 11 :00 PM -Tenebrae 5:00PM-Evening Mass ofthe Lord"s Supper ~Lady Chapell 



GOODFRIDAY 

9:00 AM-Morfling Prayer 7:30 PM-Ct-lebration 
3:00PM.f'..eiebration ofthe l...ord· s Pa!>sion oftJae Lord's Passion 
~Cryptl 
HOLY SATURDAY 8:00PM-The Puo;l'al Vigil 
9:00AM-Moroin2Prayer (Cryptl 
2:OOPM-Biessingofforo for Easter (Crypt I 11 :00PM-Tht· Pascal 
EASTER V~l 
12:15AM-Mass 7:15PM­9:00AM-Mass 
10:30-Solemn l..itUI1< ~·of Easter Morning 

R~ 
$50 DEPOSIT (NON­.for the REFUNDABLE 
SENIOR TRIP to the 




~-BAHAMAS-------~ 
IS DUE AFTER BREAK APRIL 15th, 16th, and 17th 
DON'T SPEND ALL OFYOUR 
~ MONEYOVER BREAK 


~ questions??? 

"coordinator
call ANNE 7850 

MIKE 1623 DONNA 


•L· 


---------·--­
The Observer 


Crosson confirtns suicide attempts 
by Mary Fran Callahan paramount importance," she sense to go home to get away Senior StaffReporter commented. from the intensive pressure of Crosson then explained Psych­academic work.'' 
Dr. Pat Crosson, director of ological Services' procedure for Though Crosson cited academ­Psychological Services yester­dealing with would-be suicides. ic l?ressure as a cause of day confirmed recent rumors The first step, according to suictde, she explained that regarding suicide attempts. Crosson, is to ask the student suicide is a combination of 
Crosson acknowledged that whether he has taken any causes and is basically a total there has been at least one dangerous substances or done inability to continue coping. attempt this year, and several any physical damage to him­"l thi.1k everybody has a 
"questionable attempts" last self. breaking point,'' she comment­year. She declined to elaborate If the person has, he will ed. She explained that multiple on these attempts saying that immediately be taken to the stresses can simply overload an ''sensationalizing them would hospital to obtain emergency individual and render him un­be unfair to the mdividuals." medical treatment. When the able to deal with problems. 
Crosson explained that when medical treatment is comple­She further explained that someone picks up a phone and ted, the person would then, should a student contact Psych­speaks of suicide, the action is according to Crosson, "stay in ological Services in reference to always "a cry for help." She the psychiatric ward for several a suicide attempt, the students' said that although officials real­days." parents would immediately be ly can never tell if a person is When a person does not notified. She justified this suicidal or simply seeking at­require medical treatment, he policy commenting, ''When tention, professionals cannot will simply get psychological someone is a danger to them­... afford to take chances. treatment such as counseling . selves or others, we must ''The life of the student is of Crosson added, "It makes more legally violate confidentiality.'' Crosson said Psychological Services does not like ''to knock on the door'' when they receive reports that a student is un­usually depressed or with­drawn. "We generally like to 
Palestinians strike in protestof 
Israeli plan to settle West Bank 
go through the students' room­mates, friends, or R.A.'s," she
towns.
Palestinian Arabs staged a 
said. Yet, if this network fails,
Israeli spokesmen said thegeneral 5trike yesterday 
throughout the occupied West only violent outbreak was in the hall rector would be contac­The s~lace ofthe woods offers the perfect setting for ted. gettmg zn shape for the heaches ofbreak.
the town of Bir Zeit, 15 milesBank of the Jordan River to 
''The person affc~cts the whole 
north of Jerusalem, whereprotest Israel's Jlar-to settle 
life of the immedi:tte part of the
youngsters threw stones at1ews here, an tt ere were 
hall,'· Crosso·1 explatned,
israeli vehicles. The Army·signs the already-st:ained Is­
Radio station reported that f~rosson said she did nor fee>l ·----~---~---------------~----------,
raeli-Egyptian J alestinian st ude11ts resist Psychoh·giclil RIVER CITY RECORDS Itroops fired into the air to.tutonom: · negotiati~·n faced 
ScrvileS because of any st:gma
new rrouble. disperse the group. notthern lndio.na.'s lo.tgesttecord &to.pe I
connected wirh "professional
Last Monday, Hebron MayorSpecial U.S. Ambassador Sol 

Fahah Qawasmeh had urged help.'' Rather. stuJents m1y be selection o.nd conceit ticket heo.dquo.ttets 
Linowitz called the Israeli 
reluctant to contact Psychvlogi­
Arabs to resist the Israeli movedecision to establish two live-in 
cal Services becr.use of their
into Hebron ·'by all means at 

Jl.OO 
o.ny tegulo.t album ot to.pe
schools in Hebron "distur­
policy on "legally violating
ouf disposal.''
bing." "I found ir, as a confid<"ntiality. '' 

putcho.se with this coupon. 
negonator (in the autonomy During a meeting in Jerusa­
She explained, huwever, that
lem, their third. in three days, 
OFF limit one per person expires April IS, 1980

talks), a cause of some con­
the afc-rementi•med policy is in
Linowitz failed to win a pledgecern. I conveyed this to the 
from Begin to stop settlement a person's best interests. She •20,000 albums &tapes in stock 
prime minister. We are regret­
said she beiievtd the University 
ful the decision was made," activity in occupied Arab terri­• Huge cut-out and special import selection Iopen lOto 10,
demonstrates its concern for an
tories during the weeks leading 7
Linowitz added. individual's well-be ng, ':There •ND-SffiC checks accepted up to .20.00 days I 
up to the May 26 deadline for· 
an Israeli-Egyptian agreement is a kind of i!elpmg :-.ptrit that is oyer purcho.se omount open lOto 10 277-4242 I a tradirion he:·e," she c'>n­li.O.JZ.Q..'I.~Ut!,o.tth__•_3 mileA no'"' of camou$ • nexttc> Al's sueermCllket 1'...we have agreed that on the Palestinian issue. 
cluded.
''I discussed ... the possibility 
--------------------··----· 
of a freeze and received no we shall continue to give favorable response,'' he said, addin~, ''on the other hand no · 
....PPLiCATiON~ 
rejection, so perhaps this is momentum to the still being considered." 
Later, Linowitz tnet in Cairo 
NOW

with Egyptian President Anwar
peace process.' 
Sadat but apparently failed to reassure him that Egypt's con­The decision prompted an ditions for pursuing Palestinian 






AVAILABLE 
almost total shutdown of busi­autonomy talks could be met. nesses and schools yesterday After the meeting, Sadat said, in the Israeli-occupied Arab .-.1 have agreed with Sol that 

FOR:

cities of Hebron, Nablus, Ram­we shall meet after the Alexan­allah, Bethlehem, Jericho and dria session to reassess the Halhoul on the West Bank. whole situation.'' Partial strikes were reported in "As usual, we have agreedJenin and smaller West Bank that we shall continue to give 
momentum to the peace pro­


UDENT
cess,'' he added. 
Linowitz flew to Egypt for the next round of Palestmian auto­Juniors nomy negotiations in Alexan­
dria on Thursday and Friday. 

GOV'T
Egyptian officials have said it would be fruitless to extend the

announce May 26 deadline unless Israel came up with concessions in Alexandria. 
The Palestinian autonomy negotiations have made virtual­ly no progress since they began 

Senior trip CABINET 
The Seniot Class Trip 
10 months ago.
Committee has chosen the Israel wants to give the 1. 2 



POSITIONS •• ••• • 
Bahamas as the ~ae for the million Palestinians living in annual Senior Trip, which will the West Bank and Gaza Stripbe held over October Break, limited powers. Egypt sees the 
PICK UP APPLICATIONS FROM S.G.:
1980. 
five-year autonomy phase as The approximate cosr will be leading to self-determination $400 and includes airfare and and, perhaps, and independent 

SECRETARY 2nd floor of Iafortune :
hotel accomodations for 7 days Palestinian state. 
and 6 nights. A $50 depo •it Egyptian officials have said 
will be due ~>n April 15, 16, •lr • ••
the success of the talks could 

17, ~nd is no1.-re~undable. For 
depend in part on the Israeli • 
y

furd er detai!s contalt coordin­settlement policy. Both the 

: APPLICATIONS DUE BY
ators Mike Gies (1623), Anne '
United States and Egypt have Fink (7850), Donna Shannon regularly d~nounced the estab­(4-1-4868), or Patty Kelly

' ' lishment ofsettlements without 

(4-1-5136). 
being able to deter the Israelis. 

LIHURS.~.MA&C.I:l.l7l 



Wednesday, March 26,1980-page 4 



Editorials 

Do wefear Amazons? 
PaulLauer 

''We don't want women in fell he found he had annihifat­an extent afraid ·o compete sports here. Notre Dame can ed a race. 
do without that. jocks, tom­The episode most central to d~~~ ~or::e~~~h~~~~ ~~~ ~~srfd 
boys, lesbians. We don't want Greek myth was the attack of would be intolerable without amazons here. ' ' the Amazons on Athens itself. "feminine" values, and that Theseus having visited Ama­rather than critique themsel-
Notre Dame has just releas­zonia, fell in love with Antiope ves, men would overreact (pro­ed its statement as to how it (one of three sisters to rule the jection) to women freein_g will comply with Title IX. It is Amazona) and she with him, themselves and thereby justity 
interesting to note that it returned to Athens. In a war continued repression. . underlines the importance of that lasted four months, her The answer surely lies in <>uch an approach as I take. sisters sought to avenge them-• restructuring the vanous insti­
tutions of society so as to allow 

The coverage stressed the ef­selves upon the pair, and fect Tirle IX would have not on indeed they very nearly took values other than aggression women's sports, but on men's. the city. Reinforcements arriv­and competition ''masculine'' 
Then· was an emphasis on the ed, and after heavy losses to values to exist in the course of number of grants-in-aid that both sides, a truce was arrang­day to day activities. 
To make all of this concrete,women would receive and the ed. 

I suspect that many men here

Administration also said that The myth of the Amazons an dl•lrt would be made to fairly screams of male insecur­at Notre Dame resent 
women field a "top-flight" women's ity; women, once gaining their playing sports. They don't 
want women who are jocks-­basketball team; I find this freedom, enslave men and who are Amazons. Inspire ofsomewhat beside the point. In become indominatable warriors 

not understanding that the whose pursuit of revenge on what our president tells us, it is painfully obvious to some
spirit of the law is to provide mankind is their sole passion. 
that Notre Dame has been

opportunity and support for all The ferocity of the Amazon in women who wish to play battle was matched only by the against Title IX from the sports; we emphasize our com­fear she provoked in the unfor­beginning. Are there genuine 
financial difficulties on the part pliance with the letter of the tunate man who faced her. 

law. There is also a remarkable of the University? I suspect The purpose of this essay is honesty to this myth; women that this primarily serves to to explore the reasons behind are acknowledged as oppressed mask an attitude that women 
should not be seriously playing 

the forbidding attitude taken and desirous of freedom. The toward women who seek to degree of that oppression (and sports. Women should not be 
Amazons.

play sports. This is done at the of masculine ~uilt) is measured This is precisely a projectionbroadest cultural level by a by the bloodmess of the form of what is worst about sports asdialectical interpretation of the that liberation takes. 
onto women

myth of the Amazons, which is This social division of labor played by men 
who seek to play. Men afraidthen applied to women's involves the oppression of wo­that their cuddly and somewhat sports. (That the word amazon men; men will certainly not complacent companions willis used pejoritively toward accept the burden. The "or­turn into ruthless competitorswomen athletes today makes der'' of civilization is bought at say sports are unnatural andthe use of the myth more a terrible cost--in the oppres­discourage women at severalobviously pertinent.) sion of women. 

levels. Yet this is obviouslyThe Amazons led by Penthe It is mythically very import­unfair; hyperaggression needsilea fought at Troy. Rallying ant that liberation is portrayed not accompany women's sportthe Trojans after the fall of in soch a form, for the bloodi­as it so often does men's. OnHector, they would have swept ness, the unnatural horror de­the contrary, we might under-the field, and won the war had mands the re-establishment of stand the positive effect sports

not Achilles left his tent once the patriarchy. This is an more. Penthesilea boldly implied critique of all such would have on women (or 
men); that women workingsought him out on the field of violence, or at least a world together learn teamwork andbattle, but Achilles--bathes in that has no countervailing by competing learn what oncethe Styx at birth and so "feminine" values. The myth was called sportsmanship, thatinvulnerable save for the heel shows not only a inability to women by playing sports de­by which his mother held critique that very civilization. 

velop a confidence in their ownhim--against whom her best Unable to make this critique, ability and know the security ofefforts were necessarily futile, women must be oppressed. 

a healthy body. 

killed her. In a word, then, what we Why doesn't Notre DameThe myth in its most primi­might learn from the myth of wholeheartedly support Titletive form has the warrior the Amazons is that men are to IX? Do we fear Amazons?
women sweeping out of the farthest reaches of the known =========== world, from Libya, across E­gypt and Arabia to Syria and Cilia, then Greater Phrygia and finally the coast lands of the Asia Minor. There they built cities and over the years, their vigor gradually waned. Then Mopus and Sipylus leading an army levied from men of the surrounding territories who were desperate to free them­selves, waged ceaseless was on the Amazons. They fled, sorely diminished in number, back to Libya. Before they fully recovered they were visit­ed by a demi-god. 
Heracles, the benefactor of all mankind (sic), was outraged that men were suborinate to women and had gone to free them. Clad in the Nemean lionskin--proof against all wea­pons--he slaughtered the at­tacking Amazona in a battle that lasted all day; when nigh_r. 

d::~::::,,;..::n;:r


LC Restructure 
. Megan Boyle 
os~ ~~o plead ignor~nce time is short and valu~ble, '' she 

.·. ~ ltl(!:ntton l)~.~e wor~n&s explained. The indlghant Tur· <>.(, student gover~ment, tt ts za1 insisted that his time, too, tun~ you ¢111lle to understand was valuable, underlining the t}).e essence ofyour only true need for this extension of the avenue of communication be· council. The group compro· f!leen facUlty, administration mised by assenting to a half and students, . As a newly hour extension for che .Purpose el~cted Junior class officer de­of restructuring. At thts point, Siring to obtain some class Sr. Kathleen Rossman rose and ~prese.ntation by CLC mem­left the meeting, without expla­J?~t$hip, I . had the unique nation, leaving the Council with ~xpedence ofattending a meet· the fewest possible memberstn. ()f the Campus Life Council. necessary for a quorum. Fr<.>r.h my brief encounter with The ensuing argument ~howed t:his organization, it appears to a lack of attennon and disre· be a very complicated structure gard for parliamentary proce· inde~d_. with a.gteat disparity_in dure, The final vote was twelve the phtlosophtes of some of 1ts for and two against extension of members. In the space of an the life of the present council, hour, some members ap­one vote short of passage. plauded the CLC for its effec· Negative votes were cast by tiveness while others proposed Dean Roemer and Professor its abolition. Egan. . 
The major discussion of the Roemer, sitting in the back evening concerned a proposal corner of the room, rejected the by Mickey Turzai and'amended proposal for exteostion ap­by Paul B,iehle, to extend the parently because he wanted life of the present council two class presidents to replace the weeks. This proposal was made four hall vice-presidents as in order to examme and restroc­representatives on the Council. tute the composition of the This was never suggested as a group, a problem that has formfil.J?roposal, but. only as a continually surfaced. A propos­poss1btltty to be studted. Such a! of this kind must be complet­study and change in the upcom­ed before the second annual ing council was close to impos­meeting of the trustees (sche· sible without the approval of duled in May), since they are Turzai's motion. the only body capable of consti· Egan, when asked to exflain tutionally reorganizing the his reason for rejection o the make-up of the CLC. Becuase proposal, called iF "an exercise this was the final meeting of the m futility'' to try to change the present, experienced CLC, the structure of the organization in urgency of this proposal was only a half hour. But when apparent. All members seemed pressed to extend the life of the in agreement on the need to present organization for two study the suggestions of class weeks to study the problem, officer representation, in­Egan inconsistently voted no. creased female membership Although I certainly do not 
a_nd continuity o.f . represefl:ta­claim to understand all the non. When the t1me for acuon problems of the Campus Life came, however, the meeting Council, it seemed apparent deteriorated into a comedy of after even one meeting, that an errors~ · examination and revision of its Turzai's impractical proposal composition is badly needed. that the meeting be extended The group to do this is clearly ''indefinitely" to revise the the present couqcil, who after col.);pdl was countered by Lewis eight mnnths experience best Hall. Recwr{k,Moira Baker. knows the bureaucratic snags 
•'When you become older your inherent in its constitution. Concerned faculty members need to be made aware of the quality of the representation they are receiving. Students, too, should be informed of the importance of the issues being presented and the attendance of their representatives. • 
It seems ironic that students 
. ex.eend large amounts of time 
ana energy electing class offi­
cers, a predominantly social 
functioning body, and apatheti­
cally ignore the' group whose 
policies affect their very lives at 
this University. 
The only hope for restruc· turing of the CLC is the committee created to present a ?roposal of reform to the new 
CLC. Perhaps their sugges­ti~ns 'co~:lid produce an orga_niz­auon of mcreased producttvtty. In any case, the committee and the newly elected CLC clearly have their work cur out for them. 

administration of either institution. Ed • d
-The Observer_ The n~ws. is reported as accurately and ttorial Boar and Department Managers as obJectively a~ possible. Editorials Editor-m-chie( ........ Rosemary Mills Sports Editor .................. Mark Perry represent t~e opmwn of a majority of Managing Editor.......... Diane Wilson Features Editor .... . Kathleen ConnellyBoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Eduonal Board. Commentaries Editonal Editor.............. Ann Gales Photo Edt tor ..............Doug Christian opinions and letters are the v1'ews of' S · C .h EJ·t M 0 f k
enzor OrY ut or......... . nu ra 
The Observer is an independent their author_s. Column space is avail-Executive News Editor .... .. Mike Lewis Business Manager ........Steve Odlmd newspaper published by the students abide ro all members of the community, News Editor..............' ..... . Mark Rust Production Manager .... John .McGrath of the University of Notre Dame du lac an..the free expression of varying News Editor ................ . Mike Shields Advertising Manager .... M. Holsinger
Mary's College. It does not opmwns on campus, through letters, is SMC News Editor....... . Margie Brassll Controller................. . Kevin Manion
encourag,..-1. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · -· · · · -· ·
refl~~YI~~$.~~~c:~...~~~~ • ~~AJI.,.•' I"'\.'" .,'-f, .. ~-4·.0·-< .. Ill .. If of~ l t I J., j, ••• Iff t t I I I It I I I I I I •"t It I. t If 4 t. J J If o • .... •· Circulatton.Marz.ager•..~~·~G.r;"g ti,e~g~~·,: 



~---~­


The Observer 
uggersopenseason with \Veekend sweep 
by Michael Previte Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame Rugby squads opened their 1980 spring season this past week­end with a three-fold sweep of the not-so-high Flyers at Dayton. 
A 'A' team shutout its hosts 12-0 thanks to three tries notch­ed by Rico Harper,]oe Gill, and ] im Zidar. Andy Barfus also played a big role in the Irish win with some fine kicking in his first varsity start. 
Harper opened the scoring in the first half by driving in after taking a flip pass from Pat Giorgio, who had drawn the defense to the right hashmark.­Gill and Zidar then tallied in the second half to account for the final score. The team looked imi?ressive in the struggle, rwhtch was played on a sloppy 
field. 
"It was a fine way to get 
start~ d." said Harper, who wa; 
sportmg a beard for the occa­
[continued fro,..., page 16] 
and maybe we started trying too hard. All I know is we're working on what we believe were our weaknesses and we hope they won't be a problem next fall. '' 
You look at that starting front line and you have to believe those players are capable of putting the ball in the net. Players like Kevin Lovejoy• Notre Dame's all-time le<'rting scorer, or Sami Kahale who has, says Hunter, one of the most accurate shots on the 
I 
[continued from page 16] 
matches, ifs hard for the 24-year veteran coach to single out any dual match as the best. 
''There was never one I'd have .gotten an ulcer over," he says. But the stories, some funny, some disappointing, are numerous. "A couple of martinis," he smiles,. "and I'd remember them all." 
The first one that popped into his head was a match with Indiana in 1962. "We were playing on the old clay courts (which were where the faculty and D-2 parking lots are now) near the stadium," he recalls. "It was nip and tuck all the way, and the Indiana kids were sitting on the fence needling our guys, yelling after every point. Just then, football practice ended and the players were walking by on their way to the South Dining Hall. A few of the football players came over to find out what wa·s going qn. Then a group of linemen walked over behind the Indiana players to babysit. They shut up in a hurry, and we won the match, 5-4. 
Fallon doesn't remembei matches so much for rhe wins and losses but the unique occurence~. During one match against Michigan State in the late 60's, Notre Dame's Mike Rielly limped off to the training room after his sing1es match with a twisted ankk-, hoping to get taped an<i _?lay 10 the doubles. "He came back out and won," recalls Fallon. "I told him that I was glad he got sion. ' "We're ali looking for­ward to our road trip to Lauder­dale and playing in some sun­shine for a change. After six grueling weeks of practice we'll need it." 
The 'B' club did equally as well, as they also blanked Dayton 8-0. Kevin Gibbons and Andrew Orton scored tries for ND. Mike McGlynn inspired the team with hard hitting and some heady play. 
Notre Dame's 'C' ruggers also rose to the task, in rolling to a 15-6 win. Jimmy Carr, Glenn Gurtcheff, and Greg Brophy were among the Irish scorers. Brophy's long down the left sideline was set up nicely by a pass from Bob "The Horse" Murphy. 
The Irish will be in the Windy City to r.lay the Chicago Griffins on April 12. Their next home contest will take place at Stepan Field on Saturday, April 19, when they entertain ] ohn Carroll University. 
team. Players like Mike Mai who led the squad in assists last season or Ed O'Malley who just might have the hardest shot­this side of NASL. 
O'Malley showed ·.1p last sea­son to impress the coaches and earn himself a starting spot in the season opener against Cin­cinnati. However, before the game was 20 minutes old he collided with a Bearcat player and suffered a serious fracture of his right leg. He missed the rest of the season and the Irish ·missed the offensive punch 

Z'''CS"DV'FtPSnrcV.. ...o:;._...-.... ~..,._.,... __N'>~"'·'w _ .•.,.,....... "'.,....,.._.,."'
_......_~:-,~rw-_....._.-,_~,..---•-"' .. 
that ankle ~aped. But he said, 'coach, they taped the wrong ankle. He was doing such a nice job, I didn't want to stop him'.'' 
His teams have suffered 
•disappointment against Big len roes as well. "We were playing Northwestern one time in the mid-60's. We were ahead 4-0 and it started to sprinkle. Their coach wouldn't wait to see if the rain would stop, so he piled his team into the car and left. We needed just one more point to clinch the win.'' 
One thing which has remain­ed constant throughout the 56 years of Notre Dame tennis, and especially during Fallon's years at the helm, has been a national reputation of cla-ss and good sportsmanship on the part of the Irish. ~ 
Fallon once put the outcome of a match m jeopardy by defaulting the number-one doubles team. "We were at Kalamazoo," he recalls, "and tht score was tied 3-3 after the ,;ogles. We had to win two of 
:ne doubles matches to win." 
One emotional Notre Dame piayer was getting angry and threw his racquet. Fallon put considerable pressure on the other two doubles teams by defaulting the top doubles match. "Ifthe match had been decided, defaulting them wouldn't mean anythmg." 
Fallon would not allow any­one to embarrass the Univers­ity. Nevertheless, the Irish won 5-4 as-the two and three duos came through. 
Wednesday, March 26, 1980:page 13 


In an~icipation ofspn·ng break, students sweat offa few pounds in preparation for the Floncta beaches. 
Unrest continues in San Salvador 
· 
Tctrrorist bomb explosions ·rocked the capital yesterday, schools closed and the govern­
.. . Sunday 
"My leg feels fine now, ·• he commented after yesterday's practice. "I feel good and I think I'm playing pretty well. In fact the whole team is playing really well and I think our improvem•~nt will be evi­dent when we 3tart the spring schedule.'' 
And you can bet that Rich Hunter will b, looking for improvement. 
Counting on it. 
Even praying for it. 
Maybe that's why he has his 
team practice on Sunday? 
., . Memories 
A week later, Athletic Direc-· tor Edward "Moose" Krause received a letter from the Kalamazoo coach acknowledg­ing Notre Dame's sportsman­like scruples. 
Another such incident occurred a number of years ago when a Notre Dame player hit a ball in anger into the woods near the Courtney Tennis Center. Fallon took a chair out to the opposing player. "You sit here and rest a minute,'' he said. "My guy will be right back." 
"You've got 30 seconds to get that ball back here,'' Fall on told his player with a glance at his watch. "I think he made it back in 25," he recalls with a chuckle. 
"It's not whether you win or lose, but how you play the game''--a common motif among first class coaches. "I feel that a team that decides it wants to. be a class operation, in the long run, that's the team that's more important. After 35 or 350 wins, if I can look back and say to myself that there were no shoddy wins, thats when you get the real satisfaction. ' ' . 
After last Sunday's win over Indiana State, Fallon's players presented him with a chorolate cake which read, "Congrats Coach Fallon -350th." The opposing coachsmiledand said to Fallon, "That was the hard part. The next 350 should be a cinch." 

ment called for national mourn­ing for Archbishop Arnulfo Romero, a critic-of violence felled by an assassin's bullet while he was saying Mass. 
Authorities said at least 30 bombs exploded throughout the couAtry between 3 a.m. and 6 a.m. EST, a dozen in the Salvadoran capital, in ap­parent angry reaction to the death Monday night of ahe 62-year-old Roman Catholic Archbishop. 
Local radio stations said the People's Revolutionary Army, one of a half dozen leftist guerrilla organizations, m anonymous telephone calls claimed responsibility for the bombings. . 
A police spokesman said no one was killed or injured.-The 
bombs  damaged  storefronts  
business  offices,  banks  and  
factory buildings.  

Romero·, an advocate of social reform, was shot· in the chest while at the altar in the chapel ofthe Hospjtal ofDi'vine Providence, which he estab­lished for terminal cancer patients. A radio station said four gunmen invaded the chapel , where about. 150 persons had gathered. No group claimed responsi­bility for the assassination, but authorities suspected right­wing terrorists. Many shops closed and hun­dreds of people stayed home, fearing widespread violence. Military armored cars and jeeps with heavily armed policemen patrolled the streets. 
The civilian-military junta ordered three days of national mourning and vowed-to track down the killers of the arch­bishop . 

AMP INCORPORATED
. 

Internationally known, ranking among the top 500 publicly held industrials. leading producer of electrical and electronic conneciion, switching, and programming devices-inciud­ing solderless terminals, splices, mt.;!t:ple connectors, coaxial connectors. packaging and interconnection devices, switches. and programming systems-and applicatiLl'l tools and machines to attach these devices tu wires. cables. or printed circuitry. has career related employment opportunities in our 
1980 SUMMER STUDENT PROGRAM 
Designed for students between their Jur1ior and Senior Years. this program offers prOJeCt assignments related to college majors in Mechanical. Electrical. Industrial. and Chem1cal Engineering. Engineering Mechanics. Physics. Chem­istry, Polymer Science. Computer Sci­ence. and Accounting. 
_-. bPositioPnAs availabledinhtheGHarns­. urg, area an t e reens­boro-Winston-Salem. North Carolina areas. 

~:~r1 ~ 
INTERESTED STUDENTS ~M_~~ SEND RESUME TO: 

~Th~)._, ~r· ,, Frank E. Williamson 
-....~ ~~ Manager. ~.~~, Employee Relations Services ~~ P 0 Box 3608 
.~ ··' Harrisburg, PA 17105
·1 
I, ~ 
" de--~ 





A NIP 

INCORPORATED 
We Are An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 


----------~-~---------------------------------------~·--­
.... 
The Observer -Sports Wednesday, March 26, 1980 -page 14 
,..

Molarity 





Doonesbury 


ff5 L!f'&A 5UR.ffl?. /A/Of?R.Y!Nr3 .480/JT Y{}() EVER IAJO,li?.­70, BERNI£. 
ZONKER, IJON'T cANTAFFORP 
IAJIPIN6 (IJT, Of?. A RACE CAl< lJRJVeR R.Y A8{)(fT SNN IP m/7HINI\ 
IAKJ!<R.YI/oJ7 A80{}T A BLIJIAJ-OUT. IF IT HAPP'3N5, IT HAPPfN5. EITHER 



The Daily Crossword 

by Michael Molinelli 


ACROSS  29  Buchwald's  
1 Certain ray  forte  
5  Invitation  31  Mauna­ 
letters  32  Dry gully  
9  Brimless  36  Unity  
hat  38  Like some  
12  ldi  pottery  
13  Print  40  Small ship  
fabric  41  Hide of a  
14  "Thanks­"  young beast  
16  Penny  43  Gather  
17  Regarding  44  First game  
18  Hindu queen  47  Refuse to  
19  Public  approve  
clamor  48  Reflect  
21  Of cereal  51  Citrus  
grass  fruit  
22  Long time  53  Pungent  
23  Borgnine or  herb  
Hemingway  54  Take-it-or­ 
24  Platter  leave-it  
27  ~arangued  choice  

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 




by Garry Trudeau 
59 Cabbage 24 Author 60 Fragrance Richard 61 Field: Lat. 25 Brain 62 Actor passage 
Jacques 26 Chance it 63 Residence 28 Chit 64 Golf club 29 Kind of 65 Sweet sister 
potato 30 Gravel 66 Formerly ridge formerly 33 In­67 Eye part (bogged down) 
DOWN 34 Art­1 One of the 35 Cyprinoid three B's fish • 
2 Flightless 37 Sloth or 
bird: var. envy 3 Prong 39 "Saturday 4 Pillar Night­
5 Enmity 42 Buckshot 
6 Railing to 45 "Uialume" the breast-poet bone 46 Stream 
7 Like some 48 Spar walls 49 Dental work 8 Bundle: 50 Cowboy gear abbr. 52 "-Flan­9 Over great ders" 
distances 54 God of love 10 Gladden 55 "For want 11 Regions of a-... 
" 
13 Asked 56 Fairy tale 15 Color baddie 20 Mother-of-57 Night light pearl 58 White­21 Valuable tailed 



earth birds 23 African 60 "Ain't­3/26/80 antelope Sweet" 
...................................... 
STUDEf\1TTICKET lOTTERY for 



Cheap !rick 
Appearing Tues-iay April29 

$8.50 $7.50 

lottery to be held Monday April 7, 8:00pm LaFortune Ballroom 
limit 1 0 tickets periD 



BREAK TIME 
DIRECT O'HARE $15 EXPRESS $15 from NOTRE DAME CIRCLE 



B-Pwins IH title 

The C03fhing duo of Pete Sullivan and Craig Zebold led Breen-Phillips to a 22-19 victory over Walsh Monday night in the women's interhall basket­ball championships. The coach­ing combination led Breen­Phillips to the interhall football championship earlier this year. 
Jan Schlaff, a guard on last year's women's varsity team, sparked the victors with twelve points. A freshman, Carrie Leupke carried the load for Walsh with eight points. 
''The game was very close, it (the margin) was always within three potnts,'' said Schlaff, a sophomore guard. ''It was definitely a team effort, every­one was fired up to win." 
Breen-Phillips upset a 10-0 Badin team in the semi-finals to gain a berth in the champion­ships, while Walsh knocked off Lyons. 
... Statement 
[continued from page 16] 

But remember, if fewer stu­dents pay $6 for a ticket, the more non-students will pay $12 .. thus more revenue. Knute Rockne' would turn over in his 
grave. . Play-by-play agatn: 

Lastly, the University wz/1 establish an athletic endow­ment fund to help underwn'te the costs of varsity, club and intramural sports. 
More specifics are needed on this, but initial reaction is 
bravo, bravo! 

It appears that Fr. Hesburgh has finally given in. When he spoke in Grace Hall prior to the executive board meeting in Key Biscayne last month, he said that he once told former HEW Secretary Joseph Califano that the one thing that he has never had to raise money for, is athletics. It looks like Tide IX has given him no choice. 
Word is that Dr. James Frick will coordinate this fund raiser. If he does fractionally as well ~s he's done on the Campaign for Notre Dame, Irish athletics sbc1uld be on easy street finan­cially, in perpetuity. This as­sumes a few things, however. 
First, that all the money contributed earmarked for athletics, goes to the endow­ment. 
Second, that thin~s such as bowl revenue and :!Jumni con­tributions made to get their hands on football tickets ($50 per person) go to the endow­ment. 
Lastly, Frick and his aides must continue their tireless efforts, convincing potential donors that in order to maintain a high quality, well-rounded athletic program, the Univer­sity needs finds to improve facilities (yes, there is a facil­ities problem here, but that is another story , grants-in-aid, etc. 
That might not be so difficult. After all, you never see tens of thousands of alums flock back to this place for the dedication of a building or the presentation of an academic award. What better exemplifies that famed "Notre Dame spirit" than Irish athletics? 
If ~his endowmefit goes as it shoulll, the University's ad­ministrators may be shocked to learn that they have more athletic dollars than they know what to do with. 

--------~---~--­






Features 
Wednesday, March 26, 1980-page 5 

Otalon Mullins 
Jazz lights up Dome 
The Collegiate Jazz Festivals twenty-~econd year w~s celebrated in gra_n~, _,urging style this past weekend. Tu~e and agam,. the fo~t-s.tompm , h·md-clappin' rhythms moved the audtence to stand.mg, whtstlmg, and hollering appreciation of the musicians. And, when It was all over, the tremendous energy expended, enought to lig~t up every face in the house, left musician and fan alike exhausted but sausfied. 
While the Friday night jam of the celebrity judges was CJF highlight, most of the music was provided by the big bands and combos of the competing colleges. 

One college big band, however, was there merely to entertain, not to compete. Coming from Washtenaw Community College in Ann Arbor, Michigan, this band opened Saturday night's festivities with a six song set, featunng the compositions of its leader, Morris Laurence. The second song featured an a capella solo by alto saxophonist David Mann that was one of the big hits of the evening. Me.. ..,·s raunchy tone and aggressive style really stood out, and was matched by th~ Qxcellent guitar work ofJohn Laurence. These two may have been in the running for some of the prizes had they been competing. Their participation reminds us, however, that the mustc comes first, the competition a distant second. 
This is not to say the competition isn't important to these bands. Festivals like thrS are a forum for their talents where they try to win broader recognition, and the prizes, perhaps unfortunately, are selling points for these bands. 
But several bands and soloists deserve special recognition even if they didn't win prizes. I'm thinking of the big bands from Akron, Ohio State and Alabama. The Akron band played the longest set of the festival, holding stage while the judges made their decisions. This was a thankless task, since the audience that remained was waiting main~y for the announcement of the awards. Yet they played on valiantly and entertainingly, ending with an electric solo by bassist Gacy April. 
The Alabama band has a fine saxophonist in Steve Black. Its female bassist, Alison Prestwood, got a warm audience reception for her solo on the ThadJones tune, "Fingers." The Ohio State band played several student aqd former student compositions, and judging from these, OSU has a very nice program indeed. that impression was reinforced by the nice balance, good timing, and precision playing of the whole band. 
I do not smgle these bands out in order to slight the representations from Purdue, Michigan State, or the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. That these bands were overshadowed by their collegues only goes to show the high level of quality the CJF has attained in twen~-two years. 
The awards for best big band went to groups from Iowa, Northeastern Illinois, and the New England Conservatory of Music. The Iowa band gave 
one of the most popular performances of the weekend on Friday night. Featured were original compnsitions and the fine solo abilities of Bob Thompson on tenor sax and Ed Sarath on trumpet. These two are former prize winners at CJF. Their playing was consistently fine, though perhaps not exactly swinging. The band's sound was dominated by the reeds, giving it a remarkably lush quality. At times you could close your eyes and imagine it was a Dorsey big band up there on stage. 
The band from Northeastern Illinois may have been one of the biggest surprises of the competition. When their award was announced, I heard startled gasps and muttered questions around me, but there can be no doubt this award was nicely deserved. 
But, as fine as these bands were, there can be no doubt the hit and highlight of the proceedings was the Medium Rare Big Band from the New England Conservatory of Music. From the first notes of the first tune, Horace Silver's "Room 608", you could feel the audience hold its breath to catch every phrase. Every soloist deserves mention: reedmenJed Levy and Matt Dairieu, plus one of my personal favorites, Diego Pokropourcz; trumpeters Chris Pasin (amazing sixteenth note passag~s) and Tom Smith; trombonists Boo Elmer and Ron Hess; keyboardist David Wiltham. (Wiltham switched to the synthesizer for one tune and coaxed a beautiful tone out of that often abused instrument.) So popular was this band that audience damor brought them back for an unheard of encore. 
The most outstanding quality of this band is its balance. Every section could be heard distinctly and all of them played brilliantly. In even the best ot the oth~r bands, there were occasional pitch and tone problems that never disturbed this performance. Then there was the music. It was varied, from Wayned Shorter (now ofWeather Report) and Chick Corea to Duke Ellington and]eiiy Roii Morton. It, was super~ly arranged by lead<;r Pat Hollenbeck, right down to the band s punctuation of an~ couterpomt to the always exc;ellem-solos. And it swang. Oh, brother, 1t swang! 
To be honest, jazz combos were not as well represented as the big bands but there was some excellent music here as well. lhe Uhto State Umversity Jazz Nonet featured many of the fine players in that college's big band, and walked off with one of the awards for best combo. I would single out .a duet between guitar (Kevin Turner) and saxophone (Randy Mather) for special mention here. Another award winner, the Iowa Combo, featured recent works with a slightly avant-garde flavor and the already-mentioned sax and. trumpet work of Thompson and Sarath. Some interesung guitar work from Jo~n Albaugh, especially on the last number, provided some good musical moments. 
The standout among combos was the Energy Liberation Unit from IU. Bloomington. They won a combo award, but surprisingly drvmmer Larry Banks (a winner at the 1976 CJF) and bassist Kurt Bahrs were not similarly honored. Banks' very melodic drumming propelled the band and provided a remarkable solo. Bahr showed the best acoustic technique during a very demanding solo. And yet, I suppose, it is only a testament to the excellence of the competition that these superb musicians were shut out of the awards. 
Solo awards went to Randy Mather ofOSU and EdJackson of the Medium Rare Big Band for their work on tenor and alto sax respectively. Jack Scharz of the Akron big band walked off with the trumpet award, while the trombone honor for 1980 now belongs to Don Hill of Purdue. Bill Martin of Wisconsin-Milwaukee plucked off the guitar plum. The nearly miraculous piano work ofJim Beard from the Energy Liberation Unit garnered the big award for that instrument. Two awards were given for bass work, one for electric bass to John Schiffler from Iowa and one for acoustic bass to Ed Felson of the Medium Rare Big Band. Four awards went to drummers: honorable mentions to Mike Tomoglia of the Iowa big band and Ron Reed of Alabama, and highest honors to Greg Rockinghim of N.E. Illinios and Stephen Johns of the Medium Rare Big Band. Rockingham's driving beat was a major contribution to that school's big band award, while Johns, a mere freshman, provided some of the festival's most compelling percussion work while never taking a solo. Miscellaneous awards went to the Medium Rare Big Band for Andy Sttasnich's lyrical flute solo on Corea's "Time Flies" and vibraphonist John Shapiro's tremendously exciting work on that piece and on a Pat Martino tune that followed. 

[photos by Phzl}ohnson] 
Ed Sarath ofIowa was singled out for his compositions and arrangements. 
Iwas particularly taken with his '')ohnson County Express'', wrinen for the Iowa big band. And the outstandmg instrumentalist award went to an alto saxophonist from Akron, John Orsim, and the introduction to and solo on the 
''Stella by Starlight'' theme clearly merited that award for him. He took the ballad at a lyrical pace to open and switched into hight gear when the entire band stepped up to swing tempo. The transition was a miracle to behold. 
And then, of course, there was the judges' jam, itself worth double the price of admission. We were particularly fortunate this year to have jazz greats who not only sound good individually, but came together to form a tight band. Joot Stms, the swing saxophomst with the be bop intonations, opened things up and closed th~m down with a solo on "The Girl From Ipanema" that brought the audience to its feet yelling for more. Guitarist Herb Ellis took over for an extended solo on ''The More I See You' ' , impressing the audience with his chording and definitive statement of the theme. While tossing off sixteenth note runs just to keep his listeners on their toes. Billy Taylor one of jazz' top ten pianists performed no less than a theme and variations on~ "You Are the Promised Kiss of Springtime". Outstanding was his left-hand work and his imagination , which reveale<] the surprismg possibilities latent in this beauutul, lyrical melody. Milt Hinton's bass solo on "Joshua Fit the Battle ofJericho" was a real crowd pleaser, particularly in its up-tempo, double time ending, and I for one, was far from disappointed in Tony Wdliams' drumming, which included a really inventive solo in "The Girl From Ipanema". Williams is one of the true originals on the drums, with an immistakable style which includes some of the meanest drum rolls you'll ever hear and the quickest bass drum pedal around. Those who came to see this group jam went away psyched. 
Notre Dame groups, the Big Band and the Jazz Combo, received no awards, but represented the school admirably. The school's contribution to collegiate jazz would be sufficient even without their fine work, however, by just holding this festival Notre Dame has provided a much-needed forum for the excellent jazz being played by collegians acroos the country. And as college jazz keeps improving, the Festival's place on the music scene becomes more secure than ever. 
-~~·~~·l •.•.• x··, ;·~... !l:. ,·...
. t'l 
.. . . \.._ 
,., .... 
-~------­



,...-----~-~--­
The Observer Wednesday, March 26, 1980 -page 6 
• • • Scott 


Hoop fanatics sharpen their playing skills for the An Tostal Bookstore Basketball Tournament. [photo 6y Ken Berumen] 
• • • Kennedy 

[continued from page 1] overcome. Kennedy had won only one 
With 83 percent of the primary before, in his precincts counted in New Massachusetts home. His twin 
York's delegate-rich Democrat­victories last night reversed a ic primary, the results read: string of defeats. They were 
Kennedy 440,733 or 58 per­the more dramatic for the cent, for 162 delegates. public opinion polls that had 
Carter 316,793 or 42 percent, rated Carter a big favorite · for 120 delegates. and they came just a week 
SPRING BREAK PARTY for ND/SMC STUDENTS I 
i

Sponsored by NO Alumni Club of Ft. Lauderdale  1  
eThursdayApril3, 1980 6:30-11:00pm  
e Riverside Hotel pool area located on New River.  
1block behind the Riverside Hotel.  
elocated at 620 E.las Olas Blvd., Ft.lauderdale  
Admission $4°0 with NO, SMC /D.  
Hamburgers, Hot Dogs, and Beer will be available for a small charge  
Fer information call the Ft. Lauderdale  I  
NO STUDENT HOTLINE 463-1472  

Loyola




iversityhicago 

Register Now For UMMER SESSIONS 
We offer you a wide array of summer session full-credit courses at either the Water Tower Campus, 820 North Michigan or the Lake Shore Campus, 6525 North Sheridan. Here are the session dates . . . ­
FIRST SESSION May 19-June 27 Biology, Chemistry & Physics May 27 -June 26 All Other Offerings EVENING SESSION May 19-July 9 SECOND SESSION June 30-August B Biology, Chemistry & Physics June 30-July 31 All Other Offerings For more information complete coupon below and mail today! 
------~-------------------------­

1  LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO  
I  Summer Sessions  
I  820 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60611  
I  TELEPHONE: 312/670..3011  
I  NAME  
I  ~~  
I  CITY  STATE  ZIP  
I  COLLEGE NOW ATIENDING  
I  •  . ,  · ·. , . "·. ·  We are an equal opportunity educator/employer.  .  

~,. . ~ • . l' 1 .•• ' •.
:~~-~~-~~~~-~--~--------~---~~--~~~­
1'\. t ' . ' .i .. ·, 
[continued from page 1] 
Scott said that many tried to prevent him from becoming the only full rrofessor who is also black. He said he has beer. a~;ked to leave "by the hirhest authorities" for speaking out. He has been rold b:r members 
of  the  administration  that  
"there  are  some  very  good  
black-schools for you.''  

Scott added that it would not surprise him if he received another of these letters asking him to' either leave or ''stay here even though you have no fut:lre here.'' Scott has per­sm,ally encountered much ra• ism at Notre Dame. "I have be ~n called 'nigger' by stu­dents and by other faculty members," he said. 
''This university is supposed tc be a place of higher educa­t• ,m, yet they _thin_k that ~he ,-,hitc point of vtew ts the_pomt ,_,f vi :w and the only pomt of view." "At Notre Dame, the black experience is not legiti­mate not recorded, not wanted --it i; irrelevant," Scott said. 
"Notre Dame is doing a disservice to the country by turning out students so ignor­
after Carter had buried Kennedy in an Illinois primary landslide. 
This was the picture 10 Connecticut, with almost all the votes counted: 
Democrats 
Kennedy 98,427 votes for 47 percent, for 29 national con­vention delegates. 
Carter 86,929 votes or 41 percent, for 25 delegates. 
California Gov. Edmund G. BrownJr. had 3 percent, as did minor candidate Lyndon LaRouche. Six percent of the ballots were uncommitted. 
Republicans Bush 69,845 or 39 percent, for 15 delegates. Reagan 60,959 or 34 percent, for 14 delegates. 
Rep. John B. Anderson of Illinois 40,315 or 22 percent for 6 delegates. 
I 
I 
1 
I I I 
I
I I
J· 
. 

ant--why do they want students t< come in ignorant and leave ignorant?" he asked. He added "Don't expect to get r•ducated--you will get a good deg;·ee, but don't expect to get edu-::ated." 
Scott questioned the Univer­sity promotion policy. "Not a lot of the credentials of many tenured professors at Notre Dame are outstanding," Scott said. He mentioned that one of his former students is now an Associate Dean--although at no rime has Notre Dame even .-atsed the question of allowing me any capacity in administra­tion'' in spite of the fact that he trained for a year under the provost of Northwestern Uni­versity in the field of univeris­ity administration. 
Scott discussed the situation encountered by blacks at Notre Dame. Black and white stu­dents "pass each other like ships in the night'' he said. He claimed students are often prejudged by many faculty members and experience an uphill battle in their effort to overcome the culture shock and the pressure to conform to the "rich, white, Catholic point of 
.
view. " 
Scott came to the University in 1970, at a time when Notre Dame committed itself to bring in minority students and expand minority opportunities. Ten years later, according to Scott, Notre Dame is in essen­tially the same position. ''The commitment to equll-lize oppor: tunity and to project the black experience'' has even slipped, according to Scott. 
The University has a "pun­ishment oriented point of view" regarding blacks, said Scott. There is a price to be paid for s_peaking out. _"I can keep quiet and survive or speak out and not go as far as I could on my talent,'' remark­ed Scott. "I will leave a trail of history at Notre Dame," Scott said. 

Rightists kill Rotnero 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) · The assassination of Archbiship ·Oscar Arnulfo Ro­mero, an omspoken advocate of social reform, is the latest act in a leftist-rightist terror war rhat h~.s cl~limed more than 700 lives this year in El Salvador. 
Just recntlv th -~ archbishop himself had said tha• most of the vicums were ''innocent 
... Prices 

[continued from page 1] 
new anti-inflation program, was a virtual replay of the January figures that set off the administration's scramble for a new economic game plan. 
For the second month in c1 row, the price index increa:,e was paced by large rises for energy and htgher intere ;t rates, while food prices showe no change. Medical care costs .also rose sharply for a ~econd straight month. 
If consumer prices were to keep rising for the full year at January's and February's rate, inflation for all of 1980 would be 18 percent, the highest level since: wartime price con­trols were lifted in 1946. 
Last year's inflation · 'lte was 
13. · 3 percent. , 
: 11,1 ,I: 
:I .,.

--~-----------------------------------------------.~·.{ 
farmworkers slain by the mili­
tary and rightist forces." 
Right-wing terrorists were 
suspected of shooting the arch­
bishop Monday night as he 
celebrated Mass, although no 
group claimed responsibility. 
Both rightist and leftist 
groups have conducted tneir 
own brands of terrorism in the 
political strife that has domi­
nated Salvadoran life in recent 
years. 
Leftist groups resort to guer­rilla-style attack<>, strikes, <•c­cupations of public bwldings and kidnappings They have raised more than $85 million for their "war chests" bv kidnapping dozens of wealthy businessmen, diplomats and government officials in the past four years. Sometmes the kidnap victrms are killed. 
South Afril.:an Ambassador Richar Gardner Dunn has been held by a ieftist guerrilla group since Nov. 14. 
On the other side are secret right-wing killer .squads who torture,blud~ eon, strangle and shoot scores of leftists each month, according to police, diplomat~ and human righn officials 
These authorities claim right­ist elements are :Vso responsi­ble for blowing up government offices in an apparent effort to delay agrarian reforms_ . 
Statistics regarding the 
numbers of blacks at Notre 
Dame do not reflect the true 
situation, Scott revealed. Sta­
tistics quote "minority" fig­
ures, which include foreigners 
as well as students who are 
perhaps half Chicano and re­
c-~ive no type of ostracism as 
do black stud-=:nts, Scott said. 
"It breaks my heart that 
Notre Dame claims it is doing 
things for blacks a~?-~ is ge~in~ 
awards and recogmuon for tt, 
he commented. 
Notre Dame does not be:ievc 
that studies of blacks and 
chicanos are as worthwhile as 
studies ofwhites, Scott stated. 
"Even when I publish article& 
in the top journals," Scott said,­
"they are treated as being less 
valuable because they study the 
the black experience." He 
said he ha:s been asked to teach 
"something else .. , 
"Racism is the name of the game at Notre Dame,'' Scott said, "and perhaps my only good reason to stay here is because there is so much to be done." 
Scott ~aid that he has been told that "many Notre Dame ex-athletes are getting together to boycott Notre Dame's re­cruitment of black athletes because they won't _hire them as coaches." 
Scott questionc:-d the l?aucity or absence of blacks 10 the administration, faculty. coach­ing and student sectors •Jf the U niversiry. 
So1tt r hen fiel,!ed que">tioJ s from the audience, concentrat­ing on the problems of black­white interaction on ... ampus. 
"\X'hit( s wanr black"> t) become white--but we ·~njoy what we are,'' remarked Scott. Students questioned their power to evoke a change in the present situation, and Scott replied that ''No matter hov. impossible it seems to make a change, it is possible--to sn 1tch victory out of the jaw~ of defeat.'' 





, , , Killer squirrels-Page 8 

APRIL FOOLS DAY APRIL FOOLS DAY
a ridiculou~ farce for domers and smc chicks 
• 

Stu. Gov't non-triumph 

Oligarchy in-action 
by Scan D. Lies Absurder StaffReporter 
Proclaiming . yesterday that "there are no issues, " Bill Roast, Student Body president, handed his gav!'"l over to incom­ing chief officer Paul Realize. ''There are no issues left after my term in office," Roast said, a reference to the quiet articula­tion of student opinions which have marked his subtle admin­
• istration. Roasr took the occas­ion to expand upon his concept of leadership. ''Anyone can stand up for what he believes in,·' Roast maintained, "but it takes a real leader to keep it all inside, to keep it bottled up and let it sit there and seethe until you turn red and just wanna scream." "Anyone can say 'hey, we are getting no cooperation,' or 'hey, we have no power to accomplish our objectives,''' the president said, using a five-finger "in the face" motion wi~h his bands to emphasize the 
point. 
"But," he continued, "it takes real leadership ability to put together an approach which includes the acceptance of inev­itable failure.'' Roast used the current keg controversy to illus­trate his unique blend of effective inputting and gracious losin~ attitude. 
Shahprotests 
Sister Flew-the-Coop 
Awindy Hall, a self-govern­ing dormitory on the Saint Mary's campus, will be con-vetted back into a novitiate next year on an experimental basis, 
announced Behind-the-Times, 
President ot Saint Mary's Col­
lege. 
Behind-the-Times cited sev­·era! reasons for this change, the 
most prominent being the need 
for immediate reform in the trend toward breaking SMC arty policies. 
P When asked what would 
become of the 64 girls who had 
already chosen rooms for next 
year in Augusta, Behind-the-
Times stated, "I think they'll 
make wonderful nuns. Don't 
ou?." Students questioned
Y
concerning this change are 
relatively unquotable, but can 
best be described as 
"stunned". 
Awindy Hall, one of the 
oldest buildings on campus, 
was constructed in the late 
1800's as a novitiate for incom­
ing Nuns of the Holy Grail, the 
order which operates SMC. It 
was converted into a dormitory 
sever!!! years. ~g~: under the 
pre~use that 1t 1s self-govern­
!ng . lnrecentyea~s,h~wever, 
Now input, as everyone knows, is the big thing," Roast observed, "and we inputted, inputted, inputted! We input­ted with statistics, we mputted with depositions, we inputted with logic, candor and wit. Yes, I must say, we inputted marv­elously." 
''The keg proposal, which was voted down by the admini­stration, was in fact, "just a little thing. '' 
"there is a larger question. here ... " Roast meditated, one finger underscoring the invis­ible larger point. . 
''And since there is nothing we can do about any issue, there are, effectively, no issues left,'' noted the beaming outgo­ing president. Roast said that he formulated this breathtaking approach to leadership some­where between lunch with Ger­ald Ford and latest return of Bill McLean former OBUD director to ND. 
Roast leaves successor Rea­lize with a fertile program for next year: three proposals ''un­der consideration" by the ad­ministration, the rejection of which is not expected until at least mid-april. 
Realize applauded Roast's "subtle" successes and said he planned more of the same for next year. "We are going to expand on this concept of leadership," Realize empha­military activity across the Route 31 border had been increasing in recent years.

Nuns draft SMCs 
community, although it was known that Soviet 
1t has earQeQ ,S)l!:h.~P.t.:t!tJc;s. ·!il?~. proud!" • _ T,.-:.::. ·-,._-,._ ·.• -­the "No-Tell Motef". 
Monogram O'Sweater, the sole RAin A windy, named one f · · d 
o us mam a vantages as a
l h d , h 
. p ace w ere guys on t ave to
•'sign away their first-born son" upon entering. 
If all goes well, Behind-the-Times sees this upcoming change as a permanent one. He plans a new method of selecting students who will live in A win­d · f E h · I 
Y to uture years.· ac glr
must be recommended by at
least two hall directors, on the b · f h · h
as1s o ow many times s e
h d 
as staye out past hours (a
Freshman restriction) , broken parietals, and been caught ille-II · h I 
ga y consumtog a1co o .
.Behind-the-Times, asked how h
t ese criteria will be judged,
commented, "The more, the b Th ' h II
etter. ey re a c a enge
that way." Sister Caring Johnowitz, 
Head of Student Death, thinks that these changes will make Awindy a "Very overcrowded place, but a wonderful training ground for our future sisters." When asked what the prime reason for her enthusiasm is, Johnowitz stated •:well our number of novic'es has 'been dwindlin~, but this should real­ly give It a boost. Mother Gymnasium would be so sized. Andy -McKenna was auiet!y effective; Roast was subtle, but next year we plan to be almost invisible.'' 
When questioned about Roche's remarkable influence on the lives of students at this institution, Fr. John VanWolv­lear, vice-president for Student Affairs, had nothing but good things to say. 
"I think it''s good for a good boy from a good school to be good. That Bill will be going to an even gooder school is good-­no, goodest!" emphasized the administrator known most to journalists for his Clarity and insight. 
''Good, good, good and --on the other hand--better yet,'' VanWolvlear beamed, clearing up once and for all the differ­ence between himself and Roche on the great burning issues of the day. 
0 0 


Showing how one can eodif after dropping Oops! a pom-pom, an unidenti ed c.'.~eerleader stoops to pick it up. [photo .Y l.M. Notsexist] 
Domino theory gels 

Reds go for Golden Dome 
by john McGrath Unassociated Press Writer 

NOTRE DAME, Ind. (UP) Reports reaching the Golden Dome indicate that Russian troops have crossed the Route 31 frontier and taken up positions inside Notre Dame territory. Un­confirmed reports indicate that Soviet armored vehicles were seen outside Carrol Hall. 
The move came as a suprise to the world 
A puppet regime under the direction of a little known, but Marxist-leaning politician named Slabruck Carmel was installed late last ni~ht, 
and introduced on national TV. TransmissiOns intertepted at Holy Cross Hall, provided the world's first glimpse at the .new leader. He was described by observers as being a "dirty, drugged-out type --kinda like someone you'd 
expect to meet in a sleazy bar at 4 a.m. on a Saturday night." 
University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, reached in Washington late last night, ex: pressed extreme concern over the situation. 
"I think this is the most serious threat to, peace since World War II," the outragedPresident said. "We have received reports, that the Russians have been airlifted into Carrol Hall itself, and if these reports are true, I th~nk we're going to have to review the entire range of Notre Dame-Soviet relations and take a second look at detente." The Carroll Hall--Holy Cross Hall area of the campus were described recently by Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. John Van Wolvlear as "the crescent of crisis," in reflection of the growing tension being ex­perienced there in recent months. "That part of the world is vital ·to our University interests," Van,Wolvlear told news· men at a hastily called press conference late last night at Darby's Place. "If the Russians get a hold of t~at area, they could put a str~nglc;hol~ · on suppltes to the enure rest of t~e U'?-lv~rstty. A h~gh percentage of the Un1verstty s drug suppl~es pass thr<?ugh _the narr?w Straits of St. Mar~ s, and Um_vers1ty officials are clearly w~rne~ that Ru~s1an cont~?l of that a_rea could 
bnngvtt~lsupplte_sof!llanJuana, co_came, Ps;P,~.,JP.St.gomgtp.stt.arouo_d..andlet~hembeshootiP~: 
•. and.barbi.tuates t<?1, y.•rt,ufll.SW~~?ntJ ~L~ .t~~-A•P.-.the~ place,and ·uSiftg,..c~¥5 '*ittht!ul mt!'l'! when most domers are atready paytog h1gh bemg around to be in on the action." 
prices at the pump and waiting in long lines for 
fuel. 
Red Cross officials at the Old College are 
already reporting an influx of refugees from 
Carroll Hall. Some refugees said that the 
H.ussians came during the night, storming the 
building with the use of Mi-24 helicopter 
gunships, BMP armored personnel carriers, and 
T-72 tanks. 
A flight over the Carrol Hall area early this 
morning by The Absurder news helicopter 
revealed the presence of scores of Russian 
armored vehicles, seen encircling the area 
immediately surrounding the building. 
In agreement with nnconfirmed stories being 
told by refugees, Absurder reporters were able 
to venfy the presence ot at least two Soviet BMD 
h · r£ 
c em1cal wa are vehicles in the viciniJi.
R · ld
usstan so iers in fur caps were seen unloa ing 
mt?t quantities of illictt chemicals from the 
ve 1c es. 
Re~ugees returning fromCar~ollHall early this 
mor~t~g were reported to be to a bad physical
condT~n dbyf Red Cross officials. Most 
comp ame o bloodshot eyes , trembling hands 
blurred vision, extreme heacaches nausea and 
a curious system known as "cotto~ mouth.'"
H b h 1 
es urg ate last night placed Notre Dame ROTC units on full alert and restricted them to
b k
arrac s. One ROTC commander, commenting 
h 
on t e Soviet action, said, "Those guys will try 
anyth_ing, you know, like drug warfare, use of 
chemtcals, experimentation with new chemicals 
, · ' 
you name tt. It's just too bad we weren't ready 
for them."
Tl
1e commander also asked if anyone knew where the barracks were located.
Th ere were confused reports on the extent of 
fighti';lg: There 'Yer~ <;ven some reports 
reachtog the Dome tndtcattng that CarroiJ Hall 
residents had put up very little resistence to the 
invaders. 
Some refugees were even reported as being 
eager to return to their homeland. 
"You know, man, like I want to get home and 
see what's going on back there," one weary 
refugee told reporters. "It's nut so much the 
patriot~s~ thing that gets. me concerned, you 
know, .tt s the use of chemtcals tha~ real~y gets 
!lle got_ng. Lc;t me tell you somethtng, I m not .. 
) 
\ 


















News in brief 
The Absurder, April Fools Day -page 8 

Carter's Kennedy whipping quip more than hyperbole 

Screws raid two local bars 
President Jimmy Carter admitted today to being an avowed S&M affeCJendo. The president made this startling 
were treated to police anti­air strike featuring incendiary revelation during an interview with ABC's Bawbwa 
by John MeG. ~th alcohol multimedia program and napalm bombs ordered oyWalthers. Carter jumped when asked by Walthers if he was 
Alcoholand Violence Editor which featured the breaking the Army commander at the glad his prediction that the President "would whip Ted 
and emptying of beer and other scene initiated the destruction. KennedJ's ass" in the coming primaries had come true. 
Patrons at local bars in South alcohol bottles onto adjacent An armored personnel carrier While fingering his leather belt, Carter exclaimed to the 
Bend's nearby five-points area sid~walks. A bonfire ignited by then smashed throu~h the side stunned Walthers that no, he wasn't glad, because his 
were suprised once again Satur­the flamable contents of the of the building, causmg the roof prediction hadn't come true: Kennedy so far shunned his 
day night by massive bar raids bottles and fed by pieces of the to collapse completely. offers to visit the White House. Carter revealed that, as a 
at the Juice's Chest and bar and stools highlighted the South Bend Vice Squad Cap­boy, he was whipped repeatedly by Ms. Lillian and that he 
Sickie's. presentation. tain Dave ''Killer'' Hanson told had enjoyed it. Larer, during his stint in the Navy, a 
South Bend Police, accom­Authorities then invited stu­The Absurder today that he was domineering Senior officer forced him to wear ladies' 
panied by members of the 
dents to stay and view the pleased with his men's work. underwear. Walthers asked about wife Roselynn's opinions 
Indiana State National Guard, leveling of the buildings hous­· "We didn't want to hurt or on this, and Carter said that they often dressed up in leather 
and regular U.S. Army armored ing the bars. 
scare anyone, we just wanted to stormtrooper uniforms and whipped themselves into a 
and infantry units moved in on Sickie's went first as tw0 of 
get the subtle message across frenzy. Fmally, Walthers inquired as to the whereabouts of 
the drinking establishments at 
the tanks parked on the street that the Mayor doesn't look too daughter Amy. Carter smirked and said that Amy had been 
approximately 11:30 p.m. Sat­in front opened fire with 115 favorably at underage drink­given w his "slave" Ham Jordan as a Christmas gift and that 
urday night to, in the words of mm shellfire. Indiana State ing," Hanson said, "but I'm rhe bruises on her were from falling out of her treehouse. 
one trooper, "P•tt an end to this National Guard troops then not making any excuses it's Notre Dame underage drinking lobbed grenades at the flaming just like Vietnam during the thing once and for all." remains to expedite the des­war --there shouldn't have
s Angelinos meet their 
The entrances were at once 
truction of the structure. been minors in there in the first barracaded. Authorities then Over at the Juice's Chest, an place."
worked by a process of elimina­

akers inflying saucer raid 
tion checking for 21 identifica­tion until only underage patrons .Aliens attacke? .Los Angeles yesterday in large flying 
remained inside. 

Killer squirrels return to 

saucers and anmhllated half the city's population with a 
·Approximately three Sher­deadly heat ray before air traffic controllers could instruct the 
man tanks then pulled up in e~rant pilots ~hat they wc:;re i~ restricted airspace. The alien 
front of the Juice's Chest and 

South Quad; rape chipmunks

ptlots apologized for thetr mtstake and flew to their original 
positioned their guns at the 
target, a small planetoid orbiting Cygnus IV. 
exits. Police with dogs, whips, 
chains, clubs, electric cattle 
as members of The Squirrel
prods, and red-hot animal 
J:<.odent Ref}orte r Liberation Army (StA), amil­
brands then closed in.



nsumersues Fredericks 
itant group of squirrels who
All patrons were forced to 
A· band of hungry killer have been fighting for the
strip', as former Gestapo and 
squirrels, striking for the first return of their ancestral home­

ifter breastpiercing incident 
SAV AK officers who had been 
time in over a year, assaulted, land ever since the construction 
hired by the South Bend Police 
f{lbbed, then sexually molested of the Notre Dame BookstoreFrederick's of Hollywood, the famed purveyor of lude and 
for the occasion, moved 
three unescorted chipmunks on displaced them and theirlacivious articles of clothing, was slapped with a $10,000 
through the crowd threatening 
the South Quad late yesterday families.
lawsuit by a Mrs. Myrtle Jackman of Ogden, I ltah. J adanan 
to brand all minors with the 
afternoon. According to Notre Damewas injured when one o( the wires in her moJel 54B ·'puffy 
mark "Under 21 Pig." 

Witnesses at the scene des­Security Director Glenn Fairy,uppy'' underwire bra became detached while she wore it, "I was afraid when I got my as beingcribed the assailants the incident took place atand impaled her in a delicate area. The suit charges that 
ears pierced," a Saint Mary's 
''4 or 5 young squirrels in their approximately 5:45 p.m. in theFrederick's was neglgent in providing proper protection 
student said later. "So you 
mid-teens with malicious grins bushes near Howard Hall.
against such an occurence. 
could just imagine how I felt 
on their faces.'' Reportedly ~o Authorites, aided by localwhen that evil looking bald guy one red, and twogrey, flymg hunters. and a vigilate group
with the swastika and flaming­
squirrels were involved in the known as "TheJust Plain Crazy 

Weather 
hot brand came at me.'' 

attack. Gun Freaks" OPCGF) mounted
There were some tense mo­
Chilly today, turning colder and wetter than you can Taken in the incident were a large scale squirrel hunt in
ments when military ambu­
~magine. Then, tomorrow, it will get even worse, puke poor, approximately five • large nuts 'the vicinity of the attack last tf you know what I mean. Snow and ice ... got that? Snow and 
lances known as ''meat the chipmunks were carrying night. No leads have turned ice and slush. And more slush, as if that wasn't bad enough. 
wagons'' arrived at the scene. 
home from a foraging trip. up, but at least nine Robins,And muck and dredge and pestilence. Now: don't you Apparently the sheer weight of A telephone caller to The two Sparrows, one cat and onewish you hadn't asked? 
numbers of minors involved 

Abs:trder minutes after the possum were accidentally mis­forced the authorities to aband­attack identified the assailants taken for the fu~it.ive.s. and shot. 
on their original plans of taking more serious actions against the young offenders. 



CamP-_us_----4 
"We couldn't have possibly abused all 189 of them (minors) within the amount of time we

1pm WNCHEON, sponsored by the old pr~fessors' league 
had,'' a member of the South
for pretty coeds who need better grades, MORRIS INN 
Bend Vice Squad told The Absurder, "so instead of being
1:30 pm VOllEYBAll, smc v. logan center allstars, 
unfair and only physically abus­
GREEN FIELD ing some of them, we decided to let everyone go."
2:30pm LECTURE, "fornication rituals of the rat," dr. 
The offenders were then
harry Rea, GALVIN .AUD 
given their clothes and forced to 
walk in single file lines out onto
3 pm LE<..WRE, ''xenophobiology in symbiotic carniplobus 
Notre Dame Ave. where they
interactions," dr. seshue hari-kari, 118 NIEULAND 
4-6 pm EXHIBITION, "stickpins through the ages," SMC 
DINING HALL · 
The:\bsurder 

MP,ht EclitoH: Ryan7 pm MEETING, alcoholics anonymous for students happy 
"~;&M ·' Ver Bt·rkrnoe:•, hour, CORBY'S, GOOSE'S, NICKlES. SE:-.JIOR BAR 
M trk "lntet m" Rus , Rc -;emary "Ti I s11e eft · 7 pm SEMINAR, "how to deal with sexual frustration," 
Miils 

l.-10REAU SEMINARY 
As.ct. Vight 1 :litor: Sal "Signa.s" Grat ata 7, 9, 11 pm FILM, "reefer madness," sponsored by nd 
Layout Staff: Mary "Slave 

young republicans, ENGR. AUD. 
No. 1" Leavitt, Patty "Slave 
No. 2" Sheehan, Neil O'Brien

7, 9, II pm FILM, "in search of noah's ark," K OF C 
Proofr~:.'ader. l!.ty Char!es Guest Appearances: Just

7:30 pm MEETING, snorkling/surfing/underw~ter sexual 
about anybody who's ever

aClivity club, ROCKNE MEMORIAL POOL cared to diny their noses workin u here.
8 pm CONCERT, "donn)( and marie in-the-round," ACC 
8:30 pm SEMINAR, "husband hunting in three e2sy steps,'' sr. john mary immaculatta, SMC O'LAUGHUN 
Portrait of a AUD. 
Nerd. 

Ifyou order before Midnight tonight., we'll also give Don 'tlet this 
JOU a free computer printout of your great Bcon score to send home to mom and dad! 


happen to you! 



• 


The Absurder, April Fool's Day -page 9





Editorials 

POBoxQ 

A Response 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing this letter in response to the letter which was a rebuttal of the letter that was a response which was an an­swer to a letter which was a reconsideration of a letter which ran a real long time ago. Now I forgot what I was going to say. Thank you. 
Mary Abner Smith 

On SMC Olicks 
Dear Editor: 
In response to that last letter, I would like to point out that SMC chicks are the stupidest least intelligent, worthlesi: most sexually desirable femal s I have ever used and abuse . Any chick who wants to have a real good time with me can call me if I'm not too busy admiring myself. Later. 
Mike Macho 



OnNDPigs 
Dear Editor: 
Notre Dame men are the vilest, most sexist, chauvinist, self-centered pigs I have ever encountered. Women who are subject to co-existence with these idiots often suffer perma" nent psychological damage as a result and thus cannot get jobs or wear plaid skirts without knee socks. Only when peoP.le with the mentality of Mtke Macho are completely eradi­cated from our society will the emotional and physical growth of the women of the ND-SMC society continue. This chauvi­nist rag is also to blame, and should be completely restocked with the superior Notre Dame females immediately. 
Agnes Bitch 


OnNDJerks 
Dear Editor: . 
I agree completely with that last letter. Of all the ND guys I have dated since I have been here, not one has ever asked me my opinion on Nichomachean ethics, or even asked me if I thought the Yankees could make a late season pennant drive, or ever offered to light my cigarette atrerwards. Guys here simply have no respect whatsoever for the ~iris, and Mike Macho's letter 1s a great example. Wow, what a bunch of jerks. 
Tara Macloseoff 

On aAgnes 
Dear Editor: 
Geez--1 mean, really! Can't 
ume someone makes a light remark about the girls arouQd here, they get all msulted and go off! I think that Agnes Bitch has some real problems and probably shouldn't spend so many weekends on the eighth floor of the library. She pro-· bably writes letters to Sports Illustrated every year, whining after their swimsuit issue 
comes  out.  Take  some  'Ludes  
Agnes!  
Dave Bicep  

On Swimsuits 
Dear Editor: 
Hey! What's wrong with writing letters to Sports Illus­trated complaining about their swimsuit issue? Sometimes they get printed, like mine, and you can show all your friends. 
Name withheldby request 
On Discrimination 
Dear Editor: 
Dave Bicep's letter made me want to retch! I mean, it's sooo typical of the way ND guys look at girls around here. Discri­mination against females on the ND campus is obvious (compare the number of ~uys dorms to girls), it has senous effects on the girls here--many are driven to wear ba~gy sweatsuits for days at a ume--and I believe that ND should implement affir­mative action programs immed­iately. It would make things much more equitable, as shown by the excellent balance we now have at SMC~ 
Mary Herber jones 
On the Radio 
Dear Editor: 
Hey--do any ofyou guys want to be on the radto? We need people for our really keen talk show, and it's okay if you mess up because nobody will hear you anyway. Call6400. 
P.Twome 
On andOn ... 
Dear Editor: 
Could you please print the phone number of Mike Macho? It's not listed in the book. 
Mary AbnerSmith 
r--------------. 

P•ocla-nt;on 
, ' '"""' , 
The Absurder is an annual supplement to The Observer. The accountes contained therein are completely fiction­al, and The Observer washes its hands of all legal hangups pursuent to its content. Any real life character who happens to resemble the fictional char­acters on these pages... well, 
tough luck. It's not yon, so 
Reagan & Dome 
Hey -the dome and Ronald Rt;agan, t~ose <It<: my two ;Jig th~ngs. I JUSt wanna say a few thmgs about 'em. First the dome is my kinda pi..Ke--'good education, catholic, a place· to ~ork on. my physical attrac­nveness--yup, ju-..r my kinda place. ~b:ond, Ronald ~eagan. He is _aga~~st spend­~ng money on mmontlcs and he 1s for training 'em to ftght those do nu.thin' foreigners who can· t seem to think of any' better way to spt>nd their time 'cept complain aboJt people 
who abuse their rdigion. ]'ee_z...some people just think the1r the center of the uni-­verse. Know what 1 mean. Anyw~y. just wanted to get that off my ('46) chest. 
Greg Wasc 
0 0 0 0 0

0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 D 0 0 
Words ofWisdom 
Editor's note: This is the first of a projected ~enty pa~t seri~s. ?f Mr. Christopher's reflec­tions on hfe, mhtltsm, the Catholic Church Classical Philosphy, the National League pe~­nant rae~ for 1~80, consequentialist relativism, ~he relanve men~s od. deontological an'd teleolog­~cal norms, and _(mevttably) himself. Subsequent mstallments will appear as Mr. Christopher completes them and as we at The Absurder painstakingly edit them down to size. 
"If you Can't make yourself clear, confuse 'em with big words" 
--Nietzche 
"Hie qui delibatur no solo quem le costere et non sequi~ 1r con el carne. no lo C<?ntendere. "' 
Rasputin as he lay dying 
As I was rereading the unabridged, original Greek edition of Democritus' Atomism, and my own reflections on my own sexuality published earlier this year, I was struck by the consistent, albeit disparate, parallels whtch characterize each work: Each is the product of a creative, albeit misunderstood, imagination. 
I don't mind adding that this opinion is not exclusively mine. In fact, it was a methodologi­cal, albeit behavioristic philospher,who, in his weekly calls to me for advice, first suggested this obvious similarity to me a fortnight ago. 
"Stew," he said, "although I am not your intellectualequal..." "But who-is?" I quickly retorted. "Possibly Issac Asimov or maybe Casey Stengel on a good day," he answered, albeit 
obviously. 

He began again, "Though I am not your 
intellectual equal I was wondering whether or 
not you could lower yourself to my insignificant 
stature in order to advise me on a curious 
philosophical problem I have encountered 
lately?" 

I immediately acquiesed, pledging to refrain 
from uttering such articulations as sodomistic, 
Costa Rica, or dialectical imperative which he 
obviously would fail to grasp. 1 also agreed, 
albeit reluctantly, to do what I have persistently, 
albeit repeatedly, done for the ND-SMC 
community: phrase myself so that everyone may 
understand at least half of what I say. His 
by Stewart Antonio Christopher 
"How could two responsible, albeit well-mean­ing parents give the middle name of Antonio to their son who already possesses two perfectly 
fine occidental surnames?'' 
A real puzzler, and one that I had often pondered. I told him I would return his call in a week and immediately cancelled my classes for that period. I then reread Bartlett's Quotations', the Encyclopedia Brittanica, The Male Animal, Grimm's Fairy Tales, and the March edition of Penthouse. After that, I locked myself in my writer's garret and observed three days of fasting and intense emotional, prayerful medita­tion. Eventually, my hero, albeit not my intellectual equal, The Lord appeared pefore me. 
"Stew, can I call you Stew?" asked the Lord. 
"Why not?" I replied. 
"Stew, would you mind if I gave you some advice on this question?" he asked, albeit hesitantly. It was the first time anyone had offered any advice. It goes without saying, that it was the first time I had accepted any. , 
"I think, Stew, that the parents of the person in question realized that their son, albeit talented,-would need a real snappy literary middle name, since he was obviously preor­dained to be a famous literary figure or at least someone who would have the gall and audacity to publicly discuss his sexual history in a campus forum," The Lord said to me. 
"Sorry Lord," I uttered, albeit dramatically. "but it's it's plain to me that the parents 111 Juestion, obviOusly realizing their son was 
estined for intellectual glory, merely added the mid('le name to imJ?art a rugged, zesty, rom •ui~ appeal to hts potential millions of read~r:.." 
The Lord looked defeated. "Of course you're correct Stew. I never should have butted into your business in the first place," he said. 
I put my arm around the Lord and tried to console him. Then I recommended my reflec­tions on Iran as good background reading material to better grasp difficult philosophical problems. The Lord mentioned that he had read it before, but would be glad to read it again. 
I called my philosopher friend to tell him the answer to the problem. 
"You're right of course," he said when I told 1-£~J. "But how did you come up with the answer :o; er sily, albeit accurately?'' 
t''"( all began when I started reading and 

~y·o•u•g~u·y~s;;_;tak_e_a_j;ok·e·:-·E•v•e•ry--j•u•st•fi•o•_rliigi.e•t•it··--------q·uilellstliillon;.;.,iiaiiilblleiiiiit.lsiiiim-iiilillstiiiciil'-wliaiiis•aiii.idliiiffiiiiiiitciiiuliiiii.t.iioiiiniiie._,-•W•l•.ir.in.ig•s•e•v•er•al-w•e•e•k•s•at-t.er_m.y._blliin•h...l...••·.•.•.Iii..Iii· .111{;;>> ;> ,
.· ,
,111 .11 

..
.. . 
The Absurder, April Fool's Day -page 10 

Roaches and the Man 
arch of the almost-legendary 
mediately put the new-found by Raoul Duke Kester Roach Stables said yes­roach on a strict diet of ~;>rerzel 
Sports Writer terday that the reason roach­crumbs and a scientifically!acing thrives in Sorin, are t~e tested weight lifting program.
Like almost everything else Sorin cockroaches, roachus dts. 
Withing three weeks he began at Notre Dame, Sonn Hall is a gustus, themselves. co see results. mecca of tradition. One of the -"We breed real thorough­"We took 'Golden Dome' 
most recently developed tradi­breds down here in the base­upstairs to the hall roach train­
tions, and by all scandar?s one ment," Kester said. "And the ing ground's in the rector's of the most popular, IS the climate is perfectly suited to lee 
room. A couple hours a day -on weekly Sorin Hall roach run. the little devils develop to their chat track afld any roach can Second in popularity only to full potential. It's no secret that improve irs wind and endur­section basketball, the roach the dry extremely hot--some ance," Luttrell noted. He waswould say hellish air which

run is held (each Sunday during referring to the twenty-five foot 
characterizes Sorin in the win­
mass) in the ancient hall's high walls located on Sorin 's 
ter is perfect roach weather."
basement before what is usual­first floor which have become a
"We like to think we live in

ly a capacity crowd. bastion of roach training.
harmony with the roaches and
Steve Kester; newly elected "In fact, if you were to ask
the other various forms of
hall \ice-president and pacri-me what sets the Sorin roach
insect fauna,'' added Dan Ry­apart from yor average Dillon or an, an apprentice handler with Flanner roach, I'd have to saythe Kester stable. 
it's the stamina our roaches''While occassionally they eat build up on the rector's walls. 

our food or possibly scare the We have the highest ceilings onhell out of one of our girl­
Economics topples ~me 
campus and that, plus thefriends, it's all worth it when altitude factor, makes for a comes he

The dome sale is just one ot able than regular pucks," Rob­race day around," tough roach,'' Luttrell noted. many methods the University inson said. "And they make added. Mike Pendergast, well­by U:fRurf will use to raise cash for the great souvenirs, too." And Ryan is right. Earlier known roach enthusiast agreed
this semester at the South Quad 
hockey team. Krause said the Robinson added that the with Luttrell that the walls have The University •.viii sell University is seeking hockey dini,Jg halls will also donate Roach Racing Championships, a lot to do with it. "It toughens
Sorin roaches captured twelve
plet-cs of the famou~ :·gol~en sponsbrs who, Krause said spaghetti for use as skate laces them up, no question about it. dome:'' of the AdmuHstrauon "will save their pennies every and for the netting of the goals. of the top fifteen places includ­In "Golden Dome's" case I building in an effort co raise day to sponsor a particular Krause also outlined plans ing the top award which went to would say that an additional revenue for its financially trou­player. A few cents doesn't for moving the location of home Kester's own prize "stud" factor was his monthly contests
roach, "Golden Dome," (as
bled hockey team, Athletic sound like much, but it means games from the ACC to Saint with hard-to-beat city
they're. called in the trade
Director Edwar •·Moose" the difference between having Mary's lake. He cited cost roaches.''
magazines). ·
Krause said at a press confer­tape to hold up their socks and considerations for the planned Ron Ducharme, Commis­
"Golden Dome," a medium­

ence today. having their socks fall down shift. sioner of the Sorin Hall Fair
sized roach (only about seven
Krause explained char the around their skates." ''We won't have to freeze the Play for Roches League was the
inches in length and three
University will tear rif I?atches Krause added that sponsors ice any more," Krause said. first to initiate the practice of of the gold leaf roof, wh1ch will will receive an autographed "We'll just let Mother Nature inches in width), is a classic monthly meets with the inter­
story of the special bond be­
then be stamped with the glossy of the player and a do that for us." city roaches. "Let's face it,"
tween a man and his roach. "I
inscription "1\uthentic Piece of gold/lated tooth that· the spon­He said spectators will sit on said Ducharme, "those roaches
found 'Golden Dome' munch­
che Golden Dome of Notre sore played has lost in actual the banks of the lake to watch run a whole different style of a 
the games. Ducks will be ing away at some crumbs left on 
Dame.'' game situations. race. Some would say a super­The pieces will be sold in the • Food Service Director Robert equipped with skates, and will the floor of my room. At that ior style. I don't know about
rime the roach was over-weight
bookstore for $1,000 per square Robinson said the dining halls serve as cheerleaders, he that, but I do know that you can
and in bad need of a nutritional
inch, Krause said. will do their part to help added. The duck-cheerleaders learn a lot from them, and the The patches in the dome will support the team. He said will be known as the ''Quacked diet," Kester recalled. 
t'Xperience definitely imwoves• • So I rook the roach nextbe covered with kelly green dining hall employees have Up Hockey Birds." 

your roach's confidence. ' patches of plastic, which will donated time to bake cookies in In another effort to conserve door to Greg Luttrell's room, According to Ducharme, at

give the building a checker­the shape of hockey pucks that cash, the team will hitchhike to and, well, the rest is pretty first Sorin roaches were bo.~rdappearance. Krause ex­will be used during home all away games. Krause said. much roach history,'' he added. the 
consistently defeated in compe­plamed that the idea was games.. "Not only will ths save money, Luttrell, renowned author of tition with the city roaches.

suggested by basketball coach •'These pucks are not only it will strengthen their legs," the c lassie roach conditioning "But then, led by 'GoldenRichard "Digger" Phelps. ta'>ty, they· are also more dur-he explained. manual "Use a Six-Iron," im: 
Dome' the tide gradually began to turn until we could race them eve.'' 
Ducharme sees roach racing soon becoming a non-revenue

HELP OUR AMERICAN 
producing varsity sport which will soon overtake football and basketball as a spectator attrac­tion. 
"I definitely think the poten­tial is there. Right here in Sorin we have the people to start a fine coaching staff, and of course, as anyone who ever lived in Sorin will tetl you, there are a multitude of roaches around,'' Ducharme said. 
Mike Rauth, a handler with the Kester stable pointed out that a minimum of fifteen varsity scholarships would be needed to make Notre Dame competitive nationally. "Of course we'd have to build a first-rate roach racing track big enough to handle the antici­pated crowds. But I think that problem could be solved by converting the old field house. The great thing is that we could
. 
do it with the receipts from· just one future ND bowl game.

AFGHAN REBET~S 
So the future looks bright for roach ·racing here at Notre 
Dame, and particularly bright 
in Sorin Hall. That hall will be 
inaugurating the first annual 

P.0. BOX USSR 
KABUL" , 

Francis A. Allotey Memorial roach run after break To enter _,_.
AFGHANIST 
your roach contact rae~ chair­man Brendan Moynihan. Be prepared to specify your roach'.s name,...sex , and . p~.di· ..J •• ·-~ • 

.Do it today. You :n.be glad you did.· 
.gree..•¥l'''' \ t·•·•"'.. 't·~~,., ..,_..:,...,r..., .•. .,.,..,.,,, ..a,a 



'.~.­
' 

rhe Observer 
Senior class plans final activities this year 
By Bridget Berry StaffReporter 
The senior class plans to go out in style. The Senior Class Formal will he held on April 12 at the 
l\\arriott in Chicago. Although several parties have been plan­ned for Friday night, none are class sponsored. 
A softball tournament is 
scheduled to begin in the last 
week of April and run through 
Senior Week. 
A "study break" --a party at 
Vegetable Buddies--is being 
planned for May 6. 
On Saturday May 10, there 
will be a picnic and kite-flying 
contest held at Green field 
following a morning marathon 
race. 
Sunday features a class mass 
at the Grotto followed with 
"Bowling Night'· at Shula's. 
Plans for a picnic with live 
music at Saint Mary's on 
Monday and a campout the 
next mght at the dunes are 
now being completed. 
On Wednesday night, the 
seniors will go for "a night 
out.'· Senior men will meet for 
dinner at Lee's and then pro­
ceed to the "Torch." The 
women will have dinner at the 
CCE and then meet at Nickie's. 
In the spirit of "equality," the 
committee is looktng into the 
possibility of viewing "Fast 
Freddy and the Playboys." 
Both a sports day at Saint Mary's and a golf tournament at Notre Dame are planned for Thursday. 
Mary Reppa , Senior Class Vice-President, emphasized that all plans are tentative and that the officers are still solicit­ing suggestions. Chairmen are still needed for most activities, she said. Those seniors inter­ested should contact either Senior Class President Nick Schneenman or Mary Reppa herself. 
Weather permitting, the U­niversity Concert Band will give a lawn concert beginning on Friday at 6:30p.m. 
Families ofthe graduates are invited to attend a University reception hosted by the Offic­ers of the University in the CCE at 2 p.m. Saturday. 
Af 4:05 p.m. graduates will assemble for Academic Proces­sion at the A.C.C. in the Auxiliary Gym. The procession begins at 4:20 p.m. 
The Baccalaureate Mass be­gins at 5 p.m. in the South Dome and will be followed by a cocktail party and buffet sup­per. _ 
At 9 p.m. the Glee Club will give a concert at Stepan Center. 
After the Sunday Brunch in the South Dining Hall(9 a.m.-1 p.m.) students will gather at the ACC for the Academic Procession which begins at 
1:35 p.m. 
Lastly, at 2 p.m. commence­ment and Confe~ring of de­grees will take place. Tickets for admission to the Com­mencement Exercises are re­quired for parents and guests. 

Police charge Parnell with sexual abuse of kidnapped youngster
MERCED. CA (AP)-
Kenner~ P3:rnell, _wh? was charged with k1dnappmg in ·vhaa investigators at first said was an attempt to build a family, has now been charged with sexually _abusing Steven Stayner dunng the seven years he spent with the youngster. 
Merced police say "addJtion­a! informatio_n that has come from.~he boy m the paE~ several days led to ameuchng the kidnap charges against Parnell to include charges of sexual abuse. 
In t~e meanrime, the ~oman who h':ed for a ttme ~I.th the two whtle ,they posed as father and son, · sad Parnell sJept with the boy. 
Parnell, a 48-year-ald ex-convict, is accused of abducting Stayner from the streets of this Central California community in 1972 when the boy was 7 years old. 
The amended complaint, filed last Friday in Merced Municipal Court, adds three counts of conspiracy against both Parnell and Ervin Murphy, who is accused of helping him in the kidnapping. 
The first two counts charge conspiracy for the purposes of kidnapping and child stealing. The third charges conspiracy to commit lewd and lasciv10us acts upo~ a child and oral cop­ulauon. 
Parnell is also accused of kidnapping 5-year-old Timmy White on Valentine's Day in Ukiah, about 200 miles north of here. 
In an interview with The Associated Press, Barbara Mathias told how Parnell anJ Stayner slept in the same bed at two different places where the three liv<>d in 1975 and 1976. 
Accorciing, w Mrs. Mathias,_ 
Parn~ll and Stayner occuP.ied a bed m the back of a trader in Willits, a small town about 30 miles north of Ukiah. She said the same arrangement continu­ed when they moved to a converted school bus in Fort Bragg. 
Mrs. Mathias who has said she was not aw~re Stayner had been kidnapped, said she slept alone "in the front" at both places. 
Two detectives from Merced interviewed Mrs. Mathias last week at her Laytonville home n~mh of_Ukiah. Police said they did not mtend to press charges against her. 
Authorities, who have hypno­ri1.ed young White, believe he was not mol~sted. ~oth boJ:S were reumted with their paren~s after. Stayner hitch~ik­ed With Whue to the Uktah police station from Parnell's mountain cabin 40 milt;s away. 
Parnell has pleaded mnocent to the White kidnapping. No arraignment date has been set for hi~? in the Stayner case, a~cor_dmg to Merced County Distnct Attorney Pat Hallford. 
An unidentified 14-year-old youth has also been charged with aiding Parnell in the White kidnapping.. 
At the ~ime ~ar1_1ell was arreste? for ifi:vesugauon o~ t_he tw? kidnappmg.s, autho~mes said_ he _was trymg to but!? a famtly wtthout gettmg marned. 
Glee Club announces 
spring tour itinerary 
The Notre Dame Glee Club has announced plans for their Spring Break tour through Flor­ida and the southeast United States. 
The highlight of the tour will be three days in the Ft. Lauderdale area, in which the Glee Club will perform two concerts. On March 31, the Club will perforrn at 7:30 pm at the Second Presbyterian Church, 1400 North Federal Highway, Fort Lauderdale. On Wednesday ni~ht, the 2nd of April, there wdl be an 8 pm concert in Miami, at St. Bren­dan's Church, 3000 S.W. 87th Avenue. 
. The concerts will contain a wide variety of music. In addiri~n to religious and sririt­ual pieces, there wil be light-hearted songs composed specifica.Uy , for . alJ.male 
1
. "' ~ l ) · r 1 'l "; l ' ~ '-, ' "' ~5 -'-\ ~ \ ~-.. 
-••• f 
.....
·1·:-r1"t-11-1--~~-.:•·1~--:·--.,...;~;--­
Wednesday, March 26, 1980 ::page 11 


A talentedpool buffprepares for the junior Pool Tournament to be held after break in LaFortune. [photo by Ken Berumen] 
Ticket Manager announces new policy for the 1980 football season 
by Clare Padgett 
Ticket sales for the 1980 football season will be handled in a different manner than in the past, according to Mike Busik, Ticket Manager at the 
A. C. C. Due to the unprecedented 
choruses. 
The tour will begin with a concert in Louisville, KY on Thursday. Friday and Saturday will be spent in Atlanta, •with a concert on the latter evening. Afte1 a travel day to' St. Aug1,1stine and three days around Ft. Lauderdale, the Club will travel to Orlando and Disney World. April 4th will be a concert in DaY.~!>na Beach. 
Afterwards -will be concert 
stops in_ Greenville, SC, Big 
S~on~ Gal?, VA on April 7, and 
Cmcmnati, OH on Aprils. The 
Glee Club will conclude its 
Spring Tour with it" campus 
concert on April 12, at 8:15 pm 
in Washington Hall. 
Ifanyone desires further infor­mation on the upccming con­certs, contact the Glee Club at 113 Crowley Hall or at 6342. 

decis1on -to charge students $6.00 per game, application for these seats will be mailed in the beginning of May and must be re~urned by June 20 with payment for the tickets. Rather than add the price of tickets on to tuition, ticket sales for stu­dents will be handled in much the same manner that they are for alumni. 
In the fall, ticket distribution will be handled as it has in the past, with top priority given to Seniors. Juniors and graduated students receive next priority, with sophomores and freshmen assigned seats last. No seats will be preassigned. 

A possibilitv still awaiting approval is to have both basket­ball and hockey ticket applica­tions mailed out at the same time. Later deadlines for both of these applications· is likely. 
All sports wili follow the same procedure: payment in the sum­mer and distribution in the fall. 
wednesday march26, 1980 
7pm:.3am 

3DRAFTS $1.00 KAMIKAZEES;o¢ 
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY Summer Institute on Planets and Climate SUMMER GRANTS For JuniOrs and Seniors Majoring in the ptlysical Sciences 
In coopcratiun with the NASA Goddard Institute for Space 
Studit•s. Columbia University announces a Summer Institute 
on Planets and Climate. The program will meet from June 9 
to AugtL~t 15. 198(1. 
Grants cover full tuition and fees, accommodation.;. a living 
allowance, and round-trip travel expenses to New York. 
The program includes four weeks of lectures on planetary 
atmospheres and climate cha~ and a six-wt'ek research 
session. A total of 6 credits may be earned. 
Applications in the form of a letter should be submittal by April IS to: Summer Institute on Planets and Climate. 102 Low Library, Columbia University. New York. N.Y. 10027. The letter must include: home and school addres.se_~. telephone number, social security number. a one-page typed statement of the applicant's goals and interests: a student copy transcript Three professors familiar with the applicant's work m45t provide letters of rrference. 
....-.. ---:-~-----------.:.1~----J 
-•••• '. 





------------~------------------­

E<epuh man struggles with overworked machine after its revolt against extensive student 
•:s.1;.:e d11L /u m;dterms. . 

Stock market averages hit new low 
The Observer 
-

"It looks as though there's 
definitely going to be a reces­
sion," said Robert Stovall, a 
market analyst at the brokerage 
firm of Dean Witter Reynolds 
Inc. 

His company still looks for only a gradual decline in busi­ness. activity, he said. "But some people are now fearful of a more abrupt one, of the economy runmng up agamst a stone wall.'' 
Among the anti-inflation mea.sures prescribt~d by the government in mid-March, re­straints on cbnsumer credit have had the most noriceable immediate impact on Ameri­cans' daily economic affairs. 
But in the near-unanimous view of Wall Streetcrs, tighten­ing of credit by-the Federal Reserve at higher levels of the banking system is likely to prove :nuch more important in the long run. The Fed's efforts to reduce the growth of money in circulation have already sent the housing industry into a severe slump and put interest rates at record levels. 
'Itlooks as though 
there's definitely 

going to be a recession.' 
The going rates on bank loans for companies these days start at 19 percent, and all but the biggest blue-chif busi­nesses have to pay wei over 20 percent. 
This tighrening of credit by the Fed actually dates back to last October, when the mone­tary agencv took steps that allowed interest rates in the money markets to take a sharp jump. 
Smce then, inflation rates as reponed by the government have increased -close to 18 percent on _an an~1Ual basis.­and economtc acttvtty, except 10 the housing and auto indus­erie~, has remained relatively strong. 
But many observers believe the Fed's moves are uov. bt.gin­ning to take hold, with results that will begin to show up so~>n in rising unemployment, declm­ing corporate profits and other economic bad news. 
In the bond market, which is especially sensitive to inflation, bond pnces this winter t<?ok their sharpest drop ever, losmg as much as $500 billion of their total value of perhaps $2.5 trillion. 
------------------------------------~ ~~-.~----­
· 

Wednesday, March 26, 1980-page 12 
In Teheran Iranians lend support 
Tens of thousands of Iranians chanting "The shah must come back!" rallied yesterday at the 
U.S. Embassy in f'ehran in a show of support for the mili­tants inside. The Moslem clergymen leading them threat­ened to put the embassy hos­tages on trial if the exiled monarch is not returned to Iran. 
It was the seond straight day that Iranian religious leaders warned of hostage trials, lifter weeks of 1 ear-stlence on the subject. It aprarently pointed to bitter frustrarion on the part of -the Iranian:; because the shah, by going to Egypt, may have eluded their grasp for good. 
Foreign Minister Sadegh Ghotbzadeh told reporters, however, that there are no plans to try the hostag<·s and such demands are made by "irresponsible people." But he did say an Iranian Parliament angered by the shah's move might now decide not to fr.~e the 50 American hostages as 
U.S. officials have hoped. 
Ghotbzadeh said the crisis might be eased if the U.f\'. investigative commission on Iran released its findings :tbout the alleged crimes of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi dur­ing his three decades as Iran's ruler. 
But U.N. Secretary-General Kurt W aldheim said after the five-man commission ended its mission in Tehran earlier this 
Couples'. 
workshop 
to run 
Tuesday, April 8, the Notre Dame Counseling Center (Room 400, Admin. Bldg.) will offer a group workshop for couples experiencing relation­ship difficulties. The Coufles' Group is open to all marita and premarital couples who are currently dissatisfied with their relationships. 
The group will run for si> consecutive Tuesday evening:, from 7-9 pm. Issues such a:; ccnflict resolution, communica­tion skills, coping with anger, and managing anxiety will be dealt with as well as any additional issues couples may wish to work on. 
The group is offered free of charge to all membf·rs of the r..·otre Dame-Saint Mary's com­munity. For more information, or to sign up for the workshops, call the Counseling Center at· 1718. 
The Rock 
•
remamsopen 
during break
. 
The Rockne Memorial will remain open during the mid­semester break. 
On weekdays the Rock will be open from 8 a.m. until 6 p.m. with the pool open from noon unul 6 p.m. 
Saturday and Sunday the facil­ity will remain open from noon until 5 p m. with the pool open from 1-5 p.m. 
The building will be closed on Easter Sunday: 

month that the report "cannot be issued ... until the hostage problem is solved." 
The hostages have been held for 143 days. 
The shah's new protector, Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, visited the ailing exile at a Cairo hospital Tuesday and said Pahlavi was running a high fever and would be undergoing X-ray tests preliminary to a planned operation for an en­larged spleen. A date for the operation has not been an­nounced. 
The shah and his wife, Farah Diba, arrived in Cairo last Monday after a flight from Panama, where lawyers for Iran were about to file documents requesting his extradition back to his homeland for alleged mass murger and corruption. 
The Iranians said the shah·s move was the result of a ''treacherous plot'' among President Caner, the shah and Sadat. A crowd estimated by observers to number 30,000 to 50,000 spilled into the streets around the occupied embassy yesterday to protest the shah's transfer. 
Last Monday Ayatollah Sadegh Khalkhali, a leadin~ revolutionary and former chtef judge of the Islamic courts, said hostages accused of being spies -believed to number only a few -would be put on trial after the new Parliament convenes. The Parliament is expectep to con­vene no earlier than mid-April. 
A senior Carter administra­tion official said Monday that hostage trials were "not very possible.'' 
The State Department acknowledged Tuesday there is no end in sight to the crisis and said it is considering "available 
options''  to  obtain  the  hos­ 
tages'  release.  It  did  not  
describe the options.  

NDhalls 
reschedule 
for break 

The residence h;,lls will be 
se( ured during rhe forthcoming 
Srring Semester break. Access 
can b(· obtained to these halls 
through one door only. AI: 
other dol>rs will be chain 
Jo.::kecl. If a student i-.; staying 
during the break, he or she 
shoufJ contact the Rector and 
obtain a key. 

The North Dining Hall w:ll 
dose after the noon meal < n 
Thursday, March 27. Those 
students remaining for the din­
ner ·neal will have their m(al 
cards honored at the South 
Dining Hall. The South Dining 
Hall will close after the dinner 
meal on Thursday, March 27. 
Both Dining Halls will resume 
the regular meal schedule be­
ginning with the dinner meal on 
Monday, April i. 

The pay cafeteria will be open 
for meals on a cash basis during 
the break. Their schedule is :as 
follows: 

Fri., Mar. 28 7:20am-6:30pm 
Sat., Mar. 29 7:30am-6:30pm 
Sun., Mar. 30 8:00am-6:30pm 
Mon., Mar. 31 thru 

Thurs., Apr. 37:30 am· 6:00pm 
Fri., Apr. 4 7:30am-1:00pm 4:00pm-6:00pm Sat., Apr. 5 7:30am-6:-30pm Easter Sun. 8:00am-2:00pm .Moii.;!pr. 7 Regulcr Hours 
Nl \XI YC IU< --T11e 'ito• k. ,11ar~o·t l.1s t 1ken a $1 ~10 billio-n 
lrop tn 1he pa,r ~1x •1eek--., ··vuk ·tg pai11tul mentorts nn \X'all Srn·et cf tht be.tr m.trkets ; nd r<:ce~-sion of 1 he rtid-1970~. 
·n e o-des and l::est-:,nov n IIHii< ;Uol of ,roc_k pr.ce_ trenc.s, I ol{' Dow Jones mdu:-Hnal avt'r­
lge. this 'week has fallen to its loJWt'st 1<-vel in nearly two 1ears. 
From Feb. 13, when ii stood .1( 903.84, to close at yester­day·~ 767.83, the average has dropped 136 points, or about l 5 pen·ent. 
S<•me of this ~lidt ha' been tJiamed on disap~·oimment with Presider.t Carter's arti-ioflati1>n plar· an wuuced 12 day~. ago. New complications in the Iranian crisis also apparently took thetr toll. 
But most analysts in the financial world agree the main message in the market's slump has been a growing belief that the economy is headed for some rough times in the mom hs ahead. 


The Observer -Sports 
Wednesday, March 26, 1980 -:_page 15 
-;:.­


... Fencing 
[cvntinued from page 16] 
'Noboqy can really have a good shot at the championship unless they have a decent cpntender for the gold medal. Right now we have quite a few line fencers, but nobody who can be labeled as a gold medal candi­date. 
The Irish women finished the season with an 11-2 slate, losing only to Wisconsin and Wayne State in dual meet competition. 

Classifieds 
'Notices 
Will do t~ping. Call 287-51t2. Neat, Accurate. 
TypinJ done in my home. Call lletween 8:00 A.M. and 7:00 P.M. Univr.rsity Park Mall area. 277-3085. 
Professional LTyping. Reasonable rates. Experience typing thesis, jounal ar .icles. 
Morrissey Loan Fund Last day for undergards to apply Is March 26. 
Typing done in my home. University Park Mall area. Call between 8AM­7PM at 277-3085. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND. ALL LOANS PREVIOUSLY DUE ON APRIL 7 WILL BE DUE ON APRIL 8 
TYPING PLUS. Term papers, theses, dissertations. Light editing, ghost writing. Literary search, genealogies. bibliographies. Job resume S1lrv1ce. Sliding rate scale based on lead t1me Special discounts on full contracts for theses and dissertations. aardvark automatic solutions/p.o. box 1204 46624/phone (219) 289-6753. 
-s;:;ct;;;~~Le";;~ll;;-;~-;;;;;! 
Use that 1/3 of life in bed to learn fa~·er. Send $25 to Michigan Institute. 
P.O. Box 121. Edwardsburg, Mi 49112. 
Going my Way? Need ride to Philadel­phia for break. Mary 41-4105 
Two riders wnated to share expenses to Florida. Round-trip only. 233-5686 
Desperately need ride to South Central Pa. Passing thru? Jim 1688 
Desperately need ride to & from Buffalo, N.Y. for spring break. Call Rich Laski 6721 
Taking Rldars to Lauderdale, Orlando­Daytona. Leaving Thurs. afternoon. 3/27 one way or round trip. Mark 3462 or Steve 3489 
For Sale 
Going to Florida at break? Call Eric at 3323 for cut-rate Disney World coupon books. 
75 VW Beetle Like new, regular gas, fuel injuction after 7 call 277-0339, $2900. 
Got a blank space on your wall? Full it with color basketball action photo~. All players, all sizes. Cheap. Not available from Ronco or K-Tel. Call 8932. 
1972 VW Sedan -Orange rebuilt engine, radial tires, rear window def., Am stereo radio-24,500 mi. on engine -$1250. Call Greg -work 277-0703. 
~~~~:!.:~·-------­
Plane Ticket for sale: One-way from Rochester, NY to South Bend. leaving April 7. Very Cheap. Call Tim 1387. 

Lost & Fou11d Personals 
Lost: 1 pair Nike -high top basketball shoes. white w/ black behind ACC Mar i9th. Call Rob at 1865. 
Lost: H-P 25 Calculator during week o• March 10-14. If you've got it please return to the :Jaan 's Office in the Engineering Bldg. Thanks. Reward Offered. 
Found: Paper sack from Bookstore containing jacket. Come to desk Ob­server Office to identify. 
Lost: Checkbook. Please return to me. Reward! John C. 1779. 
For Rent 
Conpletely furnished apt. to sublet for summer. On bus linve to NO campus. Call288-1291 after 10:00 pm. 
Rooms -Now and/or Summer. $40 month. 233-1329. 
For Rent -4 man house for Summer. Contact Grey 8823 or Joe 8822. 
Wanted 
Need ride to S. ide Chicago or downtown on Wednesday after 4:30. Call Mick at 1630 
Need ride to Central New Jersey for break. Can leave anytime Thursday and will share driving & expenses. Call John at 3106. 
Neecl r.~e ~G Tarr:Ja, Fla. fu spr ·ng break. Wi'l share driving and ex­penses. Ple>se call Christian 272-7987. 
Ride to Ch,cago Airport needed, can leave at 7-11 AM Thrs Call Joe 1589 
Riders nee<1e to Minnesota. Leaving Wed. or n.urs. 232-5592. Ca .. Molly 
Call 
Nee<t ride to Detroit for spring b;ea~. 
Please call Sharla il409 a~d/or Bill 
1944. 
Need ride to Lafayett~. IN. March 27 or 28. Call Ed 1.820 
Need. one way. ride to Nashville for break. Call 3726 Need ride to Mason City or art Dodge lA vii:lnlty for break. Call 8923. 
....-..w ... .,ftt.,,.,' 
FOR THOSE WHO "ACCIDEN­TALLY" PICKED UP SOME CASES OF BEER ON THEIR WAY OUT OF LYONS SAT. NIGHT -HOPE YOU All ARE HAVING A GOOD TIME ON US. MAY A BOWLING BALL CRUSH YOUR FACES! 
Mom. Dad, Dee Dee, Kat, Michael and Jeremv. Happy Easter. I love you. 
Mom and Dad, 
isn 'I it great to have me home. Where's the beer? Sorry you didn 'I get to see my cast. 
Your Baby 
JIM "CHUMPSKI" FOR UMOC­DON'T MAKE HIM SHAVE HIS HEAD TO PROVE HOW UGLY HE IS -WE'VE SUFFERED ENOUGH. 
The Girl next store, 
Than~s for the personalized Easter card. It's nice to know I'm not just another Joe Blow. Have fun in Florida. 
Your Domer 
To All Observeites: 
Have Easter.  a good  break and  a Happy Love ya "Mom"  
v- 

Whatcha doin'? Have a real good break and hopefully we'll have a real good Easter. It's been great already and for a long time to come. 
Lots o' Love 
B. 
PS Do black patent leather shoes really reflect up? We'll see!!! 
Co~7atst~he-~;;G~~(~m
Sheridan) Business must be good he's going to the senior formal. 
Pearl Harbor-Sounds fine, but this better not be a surprise attack! Who are you? Rick 
P.S. lora! lora! Tara! 
Mary Schneider for President! Paid for by the soon to be first Lady [whose candidacy has yet to be 
announced] 
Stephanie Miley, You are an absolute vision in blue 
MEN'S DOUBLES RACQUETBALL ' Final 
Brown-Gallagher (277-0671) v. Slatt­Philbin (1725 or 1652) 
CO-REC RACQUETBALL Final 
Goyette-Bialek defeated Onufer-Dawson 
HOTCAI:Es: Being niles away isn't gonna be ny idea of a good time 
Meg, 
You hang in ther,e but lle su1e y~ur wisdom teeth don t. Eat lots of rce cream and drink lots of soup, dnd, of course 86 proof. See you .-.Iter Easter, 
Mik~ 
On this. the final cay of my dubious tenure as ever-faitht Jl S1lrvant to this post-hieroglyphic conmunication form 1 solemnly su Tendur my duties as Business Manager to Gregory E. Hedges. 1 give my sincere thanks IJ Ceil and all my humble colleagues, and wish the \:lest of luck to the new Observer staff. 
Stephan A. Odlan:l 
LAP­
. By the timE you read this I'll be minus o~e srster -or plus o~e brother-in-law But ·ell me-what do I do with all my free time now? Guess I'll just lie in the sun and get lots. of exercise. Looking forwa: d to seemg less of you in Chicago! :·m going to win the bet. 
Ceil-
To my Mom away from Mom: I guess we both survived the ye~r ­maybe a little bruised, but a lot w1ser. You are unique-you have to be to put up w/ all of us. 
Your boss. 
• P.S. Keep Paul in line for me. 
Diane, MikeL, Mark R, MikeS, M~rk P Mike O, Ann, Kathy, Margie, Doug, Steve, John, Mike H, and -las but not least -Kevin: 
Thank you for contributing to the best (and sometimes causing the worst) times of this past year. It was an experience I will never forget -how could I? 
Rosemary 
Paul-· 
Good luck -what else can I say? I wish you and the new board all the best. Here's to the start of a successful year. 
Rosemary 
To the 1979-80 Senior Observer 
Staffers: 
1wish each of you the best always and in all ways. Thanks for making my job enjoyable and thanks for the friendship and support you have shown me over the months gone by. I love you! 
"Mom" 
Cat, 
Have a great time over break in good old VA! I'll think. about yo~ everytime I do my headspnngs. Take 11 easy, 
Dave 
Eileen, 
Partir c'est mourir un peu. Have lots of fun in the sun!! Te amo. Adios mi amor, 
Jose' 
Dear Helen, Alumni Hall's best maid: 
Thanks for the years of Iovin service, you will be missed by all those touched by your presence. Stop by often. Your countless friends in, 
ALUMNI HALL 
Tom, Matt, Kt~vm, Tim and Freeze (wherever you are): 
Once again we make the tri~ dowr• to Florida...hut tnis time I m the "(Mom) of another gr.oup of guys (naturally)! Have a great time and maybe I'II see you down there! Party hearty, 
Patty-
P.S. That goes for you too, Theresa! 
Hugh-baby-Congratulations on your sixth. Now length is one-half frequency. 
Applications for Scholastic Editor-In­Chief being accepted now. Final due date: Friday March 28. Contact Dave for Info, 288-5016. 
U-G-L-Y, Haaln't got no alibi! Mr. Bill for UMOC! 

Interhall 
INTERHALL BASKETBALL Woman's Championship 
BREEN-PHILLIPS (22)--Tracey 0 1-2 I, Schlaff 44-412, McMahon 00-0 0, Conlisk 2 2-2 6, Alig 0 1-2 1, McManus 0 0-0 0, Welsh 0 2-2 2. Totals--6 10-12 22. 
Walsh (19)--Kunkel 1 l-2 3, Jackson 1 0-0 2, Yurgalitis 1 2-2 4, Lupke 4 0-0 8, Sullivan 00-0 0, Cotton 1 0-0 2. Totals--8 3-619. . 
Total fouls--B-P 12, Walsh 15. Fouled out--none. 
Hockey 
NHL 
Buffalo 3. New York Rangers 3, tie Edmonton 5, Atlanta 4 ~w York Islanders 5, Philadelphia 2 Montreal 8, Chicago_ 4 Minnesota 7. Toronto 2 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Oburver office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m .. to 5:00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the ma1L 
-

Mikey and Hollywood: 
Get psyched for one fantastic vaca­tion! Even if we starve, at least we'll be tan, right? Party hearty, 
Patty·· 

Dear Junior, 
If you end up hitchhiking watch out for girls in cars because you don't want to dnd up buying drinks in some bar. And can I tell you just one more thing? Even though you won last year, I will deflilitely get a better tan so don't even try. Bt have a really good time anyways --well, not too good. Love, 
Ia nina mejicana 

Thought you'd get through this year without a personal, WRONG!!! Happy 19th Birthday Beth Sullivan!! 
Tom, 
Have a good time over break (but not too good!) I hope the Easter bunny Is good to you -you deserve it. Think of me April 1st when I will be minus two teeth. I'll be thinking of you. 
Patsy 

P.S. Remember, always go star-gazing on a clear night. 
See Political Activist Jane Fonda In Barbarella. Last Chance Tonight. 
Ahmad, We are expecting 49. Good Luck! The Marshmallow Chicks 
P.S. Happy Birthday 
The Senior Class 1.1eeds people to work for Senior Wfek. If you are interested call Nick 233-5525, Mary 3212. 
"Tippecanoe Place" COMING SOON Watch for future ads. 
Color basketball Pictures still available Slam Dunks make great decorations. Call 8932. 
Dear Gorilla Legs 
It's been 2 months since I shaved, ' but how long has it been since you shaved your legs? Are we having a contest? I see through your ploy. You just wnat me to shave so you'll win. No dice. 
Last gasps of a fading production god: 
Many thanx to Ryan "No Doz:·· M.A.K.; Ann M.; Steve "Grain" Swank; Teri M.; Kim Convey; Deirdre: Steve 0.; Rosemary: Mike "Pa;tner' · 
H. and all production employees. 
You've made it all worthwhile. John McGrath 
P.S. Special thanx to John Smith and t'am for nightediting in my darkest t •'lUL I won't forget it .. 
F.P.S. It's your baby Ann--Goad luck a1d take good care of her ... 
Mike "Doctor G" Galvin, Happ~ Birthday!! 22 shots after break?!. 
K 

Anne and all of you in B-P. (plus Rick and Joe) _ 
Thanks for the surprise party and for making my birthday agreat one! Love you all, 
Jana 

Mari Snachez (a.k.a. SQCH) 
the man with no name is aware o! your activities. Do not panic. He seeks a rendezvous. Usual place -cnder cover(s) informal. Keep him happ\ until help arrives. 
Mathe· 

Dear Gorilla Legs (you know who you are)-1 half\ I+) like my bear~ and can 
take all It 1 iCibuse rr.~ vou 1m mature childrer: ( ~ :Ji>h o•• ··~·a we're on the subject r;' l.:.F ;•i ~ owth, what about your legs? l ..a.~ .• ·t seen so much hair on a girl's leg since I saw a picture of a Neanderthal woman. 
Rick, 'It
Thanks for the birthday present. It be fun being a matched set!! Love, Jana 
Marauders-Thanks to all for a great weekend. Have a nice break every.one!! 
P.S. Congratulations D.B. on HCTDT­Flipper, are you still on dry land? -Is it 
8:00 yet?? 
hey, "College" girls who's gonna be getting skinny In Florida? Signed, Hopefully Me! 
NO's Freshman Pole Vaulter. Steve Chronert (208 Morrissey) will be celebrating his 19th birthd4y, March 27th. Don't tell him his Grand Dad told you he likes Granola bars and carrot ca~e!! Even Brownies I! 
Dearest Secretary! 
Dig those crazy South Bend vibes. Have a marvelous break and don 'I spare the sunshine. 
Wednesday Night Features 
Denise, Happy Birthday 2 days early. You should have been born later. Love Ken 
Ann C., (W.W.W.4) Thanks for asking. L.Y.A. (N.S.) ChrisS. 
Coz, 
Have a happy Florida birthday. Don't come back too tanned and embarass us all. (You won't cuz the Texas sun is bigger, brighter, and more beautiful.) 
Teepee 
Mary Ahern, have a nice break and be sure to do some relaxiR\J!! Mike 
MS, Happy 22nd, have fun in Fla. Love ya, 
P.S. JT loves you too! MS 
Mary, Have a wonderful birthday. Enjoy yourself in Florida. Love Michael 
To Gui and Windy: 
Bonne chance clans vlltre vrai amour. It is so groovestone that the true loves are reunited. All our Luve, 
The Gui Fan Club 
Good bye and ~ood luck to all you "great students · leaving your posi­
tions  in  Student  Government  and  
Student  Urrion.  It's  been  so  nice  
working with all of you. Love.  

Louise (and Ceil) 
Tony, 
Let this be my public statement that I was not the author of the hidiously slanderous personal. Why any person would revert to such puerile behavior and use my name is beyond me. Lei not this cheap forgery create an impasse in our friendship. 
-Pete LO®.lZ 
To the women in Walsh: Are you dead? Call me up any time you want to go drinking 1 Doctor '·G" 
Lisa 
Roses are Red Violets are Blue Have a Happy Birthday Shoo-Be-Do-Be-Do 
Chad 
Thanks to everyone who helped make my B-d3y something spectacular.Mary Gerard 
P.S. Any signs still hanging please remove them. 
A special thanks to "Cazz", "Megamouth", "862". and "Beast". ·the best friends I cou;J ever have. "Tank" 
If you can't go to Fort Lauderdale for break, Mobile, Alabama is the next best place. 
Glenn-
A little Kid In Big stripes sitting by the lake eating P.B. & J's while flying a kite, wishes you a happy birthday. 
) . 
I 
~ 

~----------------------------------------------~------------------------------------­
Wednesday, March 26, 1980-page 16

S~rts 
Sunday--a day of rest??? 
Sunday mornings don't really exist at Notre Dame. At least not any more. You see, it used to be that good little Catholics 
Frank 

had to wake up early on Sundays if for no other reason than to get to mass on time. But these 
LaGrotta

days, with Saturday masses and Sunday night masses and all the other masses listed on the litrle white "Schedule of Notre Dame Masses" University Park; St. Louis at Busch Stadium; 
cards tkalt out back in September, people are Cincinnati at Cincinnati; Dayton at Dayton.... skeping through Sunday morning, not missing Need I go on? 
mass and even getting eggs in the dining hall Of course the Irish will entertain (or be until one p.m. Why, if you eat quickly, you encertained by) the normal slate of "patsies", might even make it back to your room in time to but I use that word with caution because I saw 
, atth Hrent. Bill and Hot Rod dribble through Goshen hand Notre Dame a loss at home last lire NBA's Game of the Week. Of course, if season in a game most people thought was a you're gonna do that, you might just as well stay joke. rn bed in the first place because you'll probably The laugh, I'm afraid, was on the Irish. hl' fast asleep agatn by halftime. But, on balance, the schedule is more than 
llur back ro Sunday mornings. While most of competitive. It is, says Hunter, the kind of lh ;.nore soundly with visions of the night before schedule that is typical of Notre Dame athletics. 
dancing through our heads (or stomachs) the "When you represent Notre Dame you're \Jorre D:.ime Soccer team is up, dressed and expected to be the best, whether you're playing .... w<·ating for the season to come. And it is a football, soccer or hopscotch," points out .... t·asPn wll h plenty of promise but just as many Hunter. "That's the kind of reputation this 'illl .... rions ... ljuestions head coach Rich Hunter place has and even though it puts a lot of lt"pl'-; to answer before he runs out of Sundays. pressure on us as a team, I' like to think it helps 
"When I warch rhis team work, I can't help to motivate us to play our best in every game." IH'Ii<'ving this is the most ralented group of lt is an experienced squad that Hunter will ar hlt·rt·s we've ever had at Notre Dame,'' Hunter 
welcome back next fall; one that brings with it 

hegins. "Bur the thing we've got to avoid, an'd Sami Kahale, pictured above, is one ofthe group of
the necessary balance of potent offense, steady

rlrar·.., got to start with the coaching staff, is talented athletes that hope to provide Notre Dame with one
defense and solid goaltending. But still Hunter 

of ;(r best soccer teqmr
"vt-r,onlidence. We've got to go mto every 
ca(\'t help remembering games last year where g;HIH' nt·xr season believing we can win but he'd have done anything for a goal --goals that knowrng that we can lose. Many times last 
somerrmes never came. .... c·a>.tHl we didn't think the other team could beat ''That was a problem last season,'' he a;~ree.:; 
Women's fencing team 
ll» until it was roo late.'' "There were times wben we just couldn't score NDw, I'm no soccer coach bur I think the best like had mental Ir
--almost we a block. to compete in championships
way llunter can avoid the problem of overcon­frusrrated everyone, players and coaches alike, dt·n, t' is send his players a copy of the 1980 
Delegation to the 19.80 Junior

[continued on page 13] by Paul Mullaney 
..,, ht'duk. Indiana at Bloomington; Penn State at 
Assistant Sports Editor World F~nc;fl~ Championshi~s. feels, optimtstl: aboLit b:­The Notre Dame women's te2m s chances. foil team, in only its fourth ''The women have really
Forty y'ears ofclassy ntentories 
.season of varsity status, takes been fencing welt,'' DeCicco w the road this weekend for the says. ''They went up last f::'di:or's .Vott·: 'thrs is the playing :ce hockey, long before 1972, the Rockne Memorial Nauonal Intercollegiate weekend to the Chicagoland s~::cond of a two-pa1t sen.es on there was a WCHA, an ACC Building, which was and still is Women's Fencing Association Open, ~ nd it served as a really Notre Dame's winningest fieldhouse or a hockey schoh r­under his management, was Championships at Ohio State. good tuneup for the NIWFA's. active coach, men's tennis ship. That was 40 years a~o, ready for co-ed physical edu­The competition in Columbus ''It would be foolish for me to mentor, Tom Fallon. when Notre Dame's ice nnk cation classes. will run from Thursday through l'redict what we' II do at· Ohio 
was in the middle of a lake and Fallon realizes that things Saturday. State. I hope, and I think, that by Michael Ortman guys like Fallon and football like scholarships may not last Notre Dame will ~end its top we'll break into the top 10 this Spurts Wn'ter quarterback Angelo Bertelli, forever. Good facilities, on the four fencLrs--se'nior Dodee year for the first time ever.'' "the Italian Rifle," played for other hand, last a long time. Carney (31-8 regular season), DeCicco expects strong 
There's something kind of the fun of it. "My goal right now," he says, senior Liz Bathon (30-10), showir.6s from favored San special about sitting with a In a lot of ways, things have ''it to try to raise money to freshman Susan Valdiserri Jose State, host Ohio State, man who has been coachi ;g at changed since the early 40's, enclose six of the outdoor (21-13) and sophomore Penn, Penn State, Wisconsin 
Notre Dame longer than Far her courts. The three indoor courts and Wayne State. He adds that
but Fallon has changed right Marcella Lansford (11-10). The qesburgh has been President. along with the times. Perhaps we have now are better than foursome qualifted for the Notre Dame could soon be and talking about the pa-st. the biggest material change anything we've had, but better NIFWA finals with a second­among that "'lite group in 
facilities would benefit more women's fencir,g.
But when he has the insight to over the years was the admis­place finish at the ( •rcat Lakes tie rhe past, f.resent and future sion of women to Notre Dame, people than just the varsity Championships on March 8. "We are really one or two tnto one bal , it adds another something Fallon wasn't really teams.'' Irish fenctng coach Mike >vomen away from being a dimension. thrilled with at first. He After 350 W!ns rn 481 DeCicco, who departs on national contender." he says. 
Torn F alton sr ill bears a scar adjusted quickly. When the Sunday for Venice, Italy, to
[continued on page 13] 
on his .nose 1hat he earned women arrived in the fall of serve as Chief of he U.S. [continued on page 15] 
A statement with something to say 
'I ;,,s is t/Jt:' secund in a t..vo-p..zrt senes olfenng 
much needed for 12 years. Unlike football and onlt.llmtaf'rt:'I.J!iuns a/ thts weeket~d'., statement basketball, hockey needs a little push to catch on, ,·.·.tlmg !l'ltll tl~t· Uni!JerstiJ ·.,-f'roposed compliance especially at such a national school as Notre Dame. · ttl' 'fit/,· 1.\. resterduv --women's uthletrcs Michael If run by people who know what they are doing and · ,,,.; ,(/,ul.us/Jit> 01/s. Todrv -tickets, pn·ces and are willing to work (types have already volunteered) t.',,· t'li:I'JII''Ih't, I. it should be a whopping success. ·
Ortman 

The football ticket price increase makes sens(·. :'\(1•·; hal k I•' rlre play-by-play: . The relatively inelastic demand (vea Economics L 3 ,,, 1mpm!'<' uthlettc revenues. Hockey ticket ..----------------------, and 223!) for tickets means that people will pay ju-;r 1 tfl f~'J _ up m pn~·e from $3, und concerted 
AlAwscholarship limitations 
abuut anything {i)r them. What's an extra buck? 

f'!'IJ!I/IIIwn 1nll ..11/empt to increuse attendance... 
Students have long been of the impression tt at 

(Men,s NCAA limitations rn paremhesis) the cost of their tickets was taken out of their
:\J11!r,· /)t~m.· /iJot/Ju/1 tickt:!ts will increase ~-y $1 to 
51-', .wd tJ,t:' ,.t:'<Json tickt!t discount wrll be 
Basketball 12 (15) Gvmnastics 10 (7) tullton. Wrong! It has never been itemized on any ,·.'m:m.Jtcd. .. undergr<~du.Jies, who traditionally 
Cross Country • • 8 ( 14) S~immmg 1) ( 11) student account, but perhaps the time has come •or IH't'll't' foot/J,J/1 t1~·kets fra, wr/1 have to buy them 
• Fencing ) (5) •Tennis 8 ('i) such a charge. I wouid find it difficult to rhe ,;/ ,, 50 f>t:'rcent drscount. 
·Field Hockey 14 (N.A.) Track & Field "20 (14) 
Untversity tacking an extra six dollars per game on 1\ lore color: 
Golf 8 (5) Volleyball 12 (5) 
my student account as a specific item. I do object ro 

• Hurrav. hurray and boooooooooo1 
·Denotes cuTTen! women's varsity team at ND. 
the students buying their tickets for cash, like the The cheapest seat in the WCHA is finally ~ning 
current basketball and hockey ticket procedures, up t(Jr the first time since 1971. Some local ·-·ason 
·'The NCAA combines track and cross country. 
but it looks like that is the direction we are goi 1g. rll ket hulders even went so far as to writ. ....1d a"k 
Believe it or not, this policy will significantly lor the increase. People have apparenrl} realized 
Which division a team competes in is determined 
decrease student attendance at the games. There is that constant sellouts are not a prerequisite for 
by the percentage ofthe maximum that it uses. Ifa 
a sizable portion of the student body that only goes reasonable ticket price increases. Attendar:tce 
team offers no more than I 0 percent of the max. 
to the games because they have a ticket. Manv of .;!;,,uld nor be significantly affecterl by the pnce 
then it qualifi'es for Dilizsion Ill competrtzon . 
them would go if mommy or daddy paid for the hike, as long as the new price is not p0hibitive for 
Division II competitors can offer no more than 50 
tickets with the rest of the bill, but ''me pay $30 for -•I udenrs ($) plus). 
foot ball?" ·

percent ofthe max. Anything beyond that, and the 
[continued· on page I4Jteam is in Division I.

A conrened prnmotivn of Irish hockey has been 

.· . 






