Hockey 's future -page 16:
I I I 
VOL. XIV. NO. 85 
Carter announces support for grievance commission 
W AS.HINGTON (AP) -President Carter endorsed last night the creation of an international commission ''With a carefully defined prupose" as a step toward winning the release of the American hostages in Iran. 
Carter did not define the purpose of such a panel, but its role clearly would be to look into Iranian grievances against the United States for past support of the deposed Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi. 
~this first White House news conference in 11 weeks, Carter saJd?en..Edwar~ K~nnedy, his challenger for the Democratic pres1dennal nommauon, has made the statements "damaging to our country'' in criticizing policy on Iran and the Soviet incursion into Afghanistan. 
Carter discussed the hostage situation in an opening statement,and said he would answer no questions on the status of what he called increasingly delicate efforts to gain freedom for the captives, held now for 102 days. · 
His endorsement of the commission idea was an apparent effort to signal U.S. willingness to compromise with Iran's new president, Abolhassan Bani Sadr. 
The administration had insisted since the militants seized the U.S. Embassy in Tehran Nov. 4 that the hostages must be freed before any inquiry into Iranian complaints. 
Carter did not reiterate this demand in his statement. However, he cautioned that despite recent "positive signs" past experience in the negotiations calls for ''guarding agamst excessive optimism.'' 
The militants who occupy the embassy reiterated yesterday their demand for the return of the deposed Shah to face triaL However Iranian authorities have already indicated their support for creation of a commission to consider grievance as an alternative. 
· [continued on page 4] 
Protest cuts 

Angry captains tneet 
by Mark Rust group expressed an interest in News Editor confronting Hesburgh with the problems resulting from a mid­
Far removed from the senti­January decision by the Univer­ments of Knute Rockne's half­sity to discontinue scholarships · time locker room, eight cap­for all non-revenue producing tains and representatives from sports (see separate .story on University non-revenue sports this page). programs met last night with All members of the group officials of the Student Govern­expressed sympathy with the ment to protest scholarship cuts hockey program, which stands and air their disgust over what to lose the most scholarships, one termed the "cloak and but many comments indicated dagger policies of this Universi­the group's concern with the ty.'' University's general attitude 
The meeting lasted one half toward non-money making hour, at which time the assem­sports. bled walked to the Grace Hall "I think the University's atti­Pit where Fr. Theodore Hes­tude reflects a trend on their burgh, University president, 
[continued on page 4]

was scheduled to speak. The 
• dith cited the average atten­dance turned out to be roughly
Women to occupy new dorms 
3500 (4000 capacity) and added 
b.Y Bndget Berry 

According to Richard Conklin, Director of Information Services, Fr. Hesburgh, University President, ''sent a valentine'' to women students by announcing yesterday that the two new residence halls under construction on campus 
. will be occupied by female undergraduates. 
Director of Housing, Fr. Michael Hep.r.en, said that the new halls w!ll make little difference in placement this coming year. One hall is expected to be ready next January, and the other in June, 1981. 
"But we torsee no difficulties with on-campus housing arrangements,' 'Heppenadded. "A lottery is not being con­sidered.'' 
Heppen sai'd that figures for on campus contract returns are equivalent to last year's. He estimated that 1200 students will live off campus. 
"The people that are off campus now, want to," said Heppen. ''And we will be able to accomodate those students who desire to live on campus again next year.'' 
He said that. although the dorms will remain over­crowded, no further reduction in room size would occur. He added that no further social 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh spoke to 250 students last night in Grace Hall, fielding several tough questions on controversial subjects. [Photo by Mike Bigley] 
~---------·----·--·----------------· ·-----·-
Hesburgh hedges on scholarships 
by Mary Fran Callahan ranks of the revenue producing 
StaffReporter sports. 
Hesburgh claimed that the 
University President Fr. The­recent moritorium on athletic odi.>re Hesburgh avoided mak­scholarships was simply an mg any concrete statements attempt to "put things on hold" last night regarding the recent -until concrete solutions can be athletic scholarship cuts, saying found. Though he acknowledg­that no decisions or options can ed that dollar figures were be spoken of until after this relevant to a discussion of the weekend's Board of Trustees athletic situation, Hesburgh did meeting in Key Biscayne. not offer any, claiming he did 
Literally having to climb over not know "easy figures" off people to enter the Grace Hall hand. Pit_ to speak to a crowd of Greg Meredith, captain of the approximately 250 people, Hes­hockey team, expressed coo­burgh also denounced the cur­cern for the plight of the hockey rent interpretation ofTitle IX as players to Hesburgh. Though a "stupid" regulation. Hesburgh had said that the 
Hesburgh explained the Uni­University had put its money versity's athletic policy as one into hockey for the last twelve which puts money into profit years with the intent of building generating sports which in turn the program up gradually, will fund all the University Meredith pointed out that the athletic programs. He said that program cannot be considered the hockey program was esta­to be "built up" when the blished as an experiment and -assistant coach must handle all was anticipated to join the the publicity. 
In response to Hesburgh's 
comment that attendance at 
hockey games was poor, Mere-
that a substantial number of space would be converted into seats offered only obstructed rooms. . views of the ice rink. 
Last ye~r, a directive con­Meredith also requested that cerning overcrowding released the University not string along by Edmund Price, Director of the hockey players with an 
Housing, created panic among inferior program. "Don't drag students. Campus-wide the (current players) through protests were organized and two or three years of a lame housing eventually avoided a duck team," he requested. 
Hesburgh hastily thanked
lottery for on-campus housing by creating new living space. Meredith for his comments and 
The· Farley motel was trans­proceeded to the next question. Ironically, Hesburgh spoke in
formed into a permanent resi­
glowing terms of the Universi­
dence for eleven women. Dining areas and study space in ty's success at raising money 
for Cambodia and cited theLewis were converted to accom­
odate twenty-four. Twenty-two ideal people grouping together and working towards a common
spaces were created at Holy Cross. goal. 
Curt Wesseln, Grace Hall [continued on page 10] President, then presented Hes-burgh with 3200 signatures affixed to a petition to save the hockey program. The signa­tures had been obtained in less t~an 24 hours. Since the peti­tiOn was presented at the close 
of the talk, Hesburgh  took  it  
and left.  
Throughout  his  bout  of  an­ 

swering questions, Hesburgh continually denounced the cur­rent interpretation of Tide IX. "We have felt that the rulings from the beginning were stu­pid," he said. He said that HEW's "young women lawyers are blind to the economic implications and are solely con­cerned with the single issue of equality rather than equal op­portunity. "They (the female lawyers) don't have a clue what athletic administration is a­bout," he said. 
He..sburgh further stated that though he is very much an advocate of civil rights and actually helped draft the Civil Rights Act, the current regula­tions being spawned by Title IX are "completely irrational." He said Notre Dame is ''unique'' in this situation and must comply with federal regulations. 
Hesburgh s~id he would like to see Title IX challenged in court but would n')t allow Notre Dame to be the ''sacrificial lamb" for initiating a lawsuit. ~'We've got enl•ugh lawsuits on our hands, "Hesburgh said. 
He said the only way he could consider legal action would be if a coalition of schools would challenge Title IX. Hesburgh said he had comacted several other schools but lhey were not willing to go to court. He said Notre Dame would not go to court alone. 
Hesburgh also suggested the possibility of an Athletic En­dowment Fund in order to deal with the financial by products of 
[continued on p~] 
·~ 

~~;Y:;;~~:-1--'--:::!:. ~~~·,~~~ ~--~~--·:~·~~-: -.-;.~ifFi.:.~.?, 
Thursday, February 14, 1980 -page 2 
Ford prosecutor longs for stronger case 
News in brief Exemptions are few under Carter 's registration plan WASHINGTON (AP) -America's young men and women loo.ki~g for a sure way out ofbein~ drafted will have to turn to reltglOn, unde~ Prestdent Carter s registration proposal. Brayton Harns, spokesman forthe SelectiveServiceSystem said th~t unlike previous drafts when there were manx' exempttons and deferments, the only automatic exemption tf a draft occurs under Carter's proposal would be "mimster of religion." That doesn't mean however that there won't be some exemptions. , ''The theory is that any exemptions and deferments should be granted on the merits of an individual case such as hardship or conscientious objector,'' Harris said. ''There will be no stud~nt deferments, no occ!lpational deferments, and no. automattc deferments for famtly status, such as having chtldren. The only automatic deferment will be minister of religion.'' TV star David Janssen dies of heart attack at 48 HOLLYWOOD (AP) -Actor David Janssen, who led detectives on a tense chase for years as the falsely accused murderer in television's "The Fugitive" died of a heart attack yesterday at age 48. Janssen suffered the heart attack at his Malibu home, said actor Stuart Whitman, a longtime friend of Janssen's. The death came as a shock to friends and colleagues. Janssen's agent and manager of 21 years, Abner Greshler, saidJanssen had ''No history whatsoever'' ofheart problems and that his doctor "is just as shocked as we are.' Commission may recall halj-fflillion GM autos WASHINGTON (AP) ·The National Hi~hway Safety Commis­sion reported yesterday it is investigating possible safety-re· lated defects in about 600,000 General Motors automobiles. The investigation could possibly lead to a recall of about 400,000 Chevettes and about 200,000 X-bodies, including Chevrolet Citation, Oldsmobile Omega, Buick Skylark and Pontiac Phoenix automobiles. The NHTSA said there may be a sudden loss of control when the Chevette driver shifts into a lower gear in order to slow down. This could be caused by a sudden malfunction of the manual transmission gear shift lever coupling, it added. Weather_. Considerable cloudiness with a 60 percent chance of snow through Friday. Highs in the upper 20s to low 30s. Lows Thursday night in the mid teens to near 20.  
Camp_u~s-~  
11:30 am-lpm & 5-6pm VOTING FOR SENIOR FELLOW in the DINING HALLS and LAFORTUNE (in Iafortune only in afternoon) 4pm SEMINAR "photochemistry of macrocyclic complexes of d7 & d9 metal ion," dr. g.j. ferraudi, ND CONF. ROOM, RADIATION LAB 6:30pm MOCK CONVENTION CAMPAIGN MEETING f01 campaign chairmen 2-D OF LAFORTUNE 7pm MEETING 1980 cheerleading tryout information night sponsored by cheerleading squad ACC PIT 7:30pm LECTURE "prospects in cancer research," dr. morris pollard, sponsored by student council college of scienc open to all, ND LIB AUD 7:30pm FILM ''rashomon'' WASHINGTON HALL $1 sponsored by depts. of modern & classical languages & sp/dr 8pm LECTURE "story, affection, & virtue: liturgy & ethics," dr. don saliers, emory u. ARCHITECTURE AUD. sponsored by theology dept. 8pm LECTURE "persistent self-punitive behavior: a behavioral analysis," dr. judson s. brown, u. of oregon. HAGGAR HALL AUD. sponsored by psychology dept. 9pm BASKETBALL nd men vs. fordham at MADISON SQUARE GARDEN  

WINAMAC, Ind (AP) · As Ford Motor Co. prepares to present its defense on reckless homi­cide charges, the chief prosecu­tor says the case he presented during the last six weeks could be stronger. 
"The case isn't as strong as I would like it to be at this time, because of the lack of documen· tation,'' chief Elkhart County prosecutor Michael A. Cosentl· no said Tuesday. 
In the unprecedented trial, Cosentino has had to rely heavily on testimony instead of written documents, including internal Ford documents and car crash tests which Pulaski Circuit Judge Harold R. Staf­has repeatedly ruled inadmis­
• 
sable as evidence. 

Ford is charged with three counts of reckless homicide in the August 1978 burning deaths of three teen-agers in a 1973 Pinto sedan that exploded when struck from behind on a high­way near Goshen, Ind. 
Tuesday, Staffeldt dismissed a defense request for a directed verdict of acquittal, along with a request to strike portions of testimony from Mattie Ulrich, mother of two of the victims in the Indiana Pinto. 
In asking for the directed verdict, the defense argued the state had failed to prove its case. 
Organizing a recall ''takes a tremendous amount of time and 
. Hesburgh 
a tremendous amount of ef­fort," assistant defense attor­ney Malcolm Wheeler argued. ''There is no evidence it could have been done by August 10, 1978." 
Cosentino argued a directed verdict could only be made if there were a total lack of .!?roof, but he said some of his witnes­ses testified that Ford should have warned consumers of pos­sible hazards with the Pinto and failed to do so. 
"I like both arguments," Staf­feldt said. "(But) I agree with Mr. Cosentino that there is a question for the jury, and where ~here is a que~tion for the jury, 
It  would  be  an  error  to  do  
any~hin~.  other th an de ny  the  
mouon.  

Key prosecution witnesses have included former Ford exe­cutive Harley Copp and Mrs. Ulrich. 
[continued from page 1] 

Title IX..He said that "acade­
mic soundness'' would remain 
the University's top priority and 
not a "jock school image." 
Hesburgh said that all revenue generated by athletic events is fed back into the athletic pro­gram. Last year, however, the Schuster Fund -which was established from bowl game revenue · was utilized for the purpose of academics. 
Hesburgh then reiterated his position on coed dorms and 

Pollard to 
•

gtve. cancer talk tonight 
Morris Pollard, professor of microbiology at Notre Dame, will speak on "Perspectives in Cancer Research'' tonight at 
7:30 in the library auditorium. Anyone interested is invited to attend. A reception in the library lounge will follow the lecture. 
_The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Steve Swonk Asst. Night Editor: Deirdre Murphy and Eddie Holden 
Copy Editor: Kathryn Casey Layout Staff Kathy Vick and 
Mary Silvi News Editor: Mark Rust 
Features  Layout:  Sal  "Cy­ 
nic" Granata  
Sports  Layout:  Cpt.  John  
Smith, Tom Schuster'  ·  

Typists: Beth Huffman, Mi­chelle Kelleher, Carol Corn­wall, Nancy Russell EMT: S. Paul Selavko, Kathy "Flip" Festin Proofreader: Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor: Janet Rigaux SMC Day Editor: Cece Ba­liles Ad Design: Steve Swonk (again), Chris Slatt Photographer: Mike Bigley 
The Observer [USPS -12111 II publilhld Mlllldly through Frtdly II· cept during wm 1nd VICIIIIII ..... The Observer 11 pabllsllld by 1111 students Df Notn D.,. _, Sll1lt 
Mlry'l Cll..... SulllcrlpiiMa .-y Ill 
purchnld ,., $21 per yell ($11 ..... llllllltlfl from The Observer. 1'.0. llaa.""" b•me. llldllu ... s..~ 
elm ':sT. peld, Ntn 011111, llt­
dllna . 

The Observer II I ........... II till Alllciltld "'-· All ........ rlgllb lrt rtllrvld. 
parietals, saying each issue had . ''no future.'' Responding to a · question concernmg his role as board member of the Chase Manhattan Bank, Hesburgh . said, "I wouldn't be with them if they were unethical." 
Hesburgh also announced that two dormitories under construe­tion will house women. 
Hesburgh's question and an­swer session, though timely with the current athletic situa­tion, was planned weeks ago and sponsored by Grace Hall. 
Mr~. Ulrich told the court she received a Pinto recall notice six months after the crash. She said if she had known about the recall earlier, "I would have gotten rid of it (the Pinto).'' 
Ford announced in June 1978 it was recalling 1. 5 million Pintos and Mercury Bobcats made between 1971 and 1976 because of government rests showing the fuel tanks leaked large amounts of fuel in mo­derate-speed rear-end colli­sions. 


------------~-----------------------------­
The Observer Thursday, February 14, 1980 -page 3 


Ford begins defense case 
WINAMAC* IN (AP) -The one of the victims was taken, about religion and have Bible said she told him she had left verses read to her.
defense in Ford Motor Co.'s 
the gas cap off the car and had "I thought she kind of had an
reckless homicide trial opened its case yesterday with a sur­stopped to retrieve it when the idea she was going to die,'' he accident happened. said.
prise witness who said one of 
The young woman, Judy
three victims of a fiery Pinto Ford attorney James F. Neal 
Ulrich, 18, who was driving the said Woodard's testimony ex­
crash told him before she died I 
car, died about eight hours
that her car was stopped on a plained why the gas cap was highway when hit from behind. after the crash. found along the right curb next 
"She said she and her sister
A doctor also testified that to the car. 
and cousin were on their way to 
the driver of the van that hit the However, chief prosecutor Pinto told him he thought the a volleyball game at Goshen Michael A. Cosentino scoffed at car was stopped. when they stopped to get gas at Woodard's testimony, noting a self-serve station and put gas that seven state witnesses said
Ford is charged with three 
in the car but failed to replace
counts of reckless homicide in the car was moving.
the cap and put it on the roof,''
the accident. The state con­Another witness, Dr. Galen
Woodard told the Pulaski Cir­
tends the automaker knew Pin­R. Miller, a full-time emer­
cuit Court jury. 
to fuel tanks ·were jotentially gency room physician at Go­
He said Miss Ulrich told him
explosive in rear-en collisions shen Hospital, said Roven
she saw the gas cap roll across
but did nothing about it. Duggar, the van driver, told
the highway, turned the car
The prosecution has insisted him he believed the Pinto was
around, turned on her emer­
the Pinto was moving 15-20 stopped at the time of the 
gency flashers and stopped
mph and the van about 50 mph. acCident.
beside the cap. "She said she
Ford attorneys have argued Miller added, however, that
looked in the rear-view mirror
that the Pinto was stopped and Duggar said he dido' t know if
and saw a van and said that it
the· van was traveling 50-55 the car was parked on the
didn't look like it was going to
mph and that the difference in highway.
stop.''
speed -more than the alleged 
T~stifying for the prosecution 
Woodard said he talked with
fire hazards in the fuel system ­
ear~1er, Duggar denied ever
Miss Ulrich alone after she
caused the car to explode on 
saymg that. He estimated the
asked to speak with someone
impact. Pinto was moving 15-20 mph.
Levi Woodard Jr., who was an orderly at the hospital where 
A friend of a heavy drinker? HELP!! -.OIN A
General orders court-martial 
SUPPORT GROUP
court-martial. 
CAMP LEJEUNE* N.C. (AP) the other alleging that Garwood 
The jury will consist of at
-Marine PfC. Robert Garwood maltreated Army 1st Sgt. Ri­8 pm every Sunday
least five Marines stationed at
must be court-martialed on chard Williams by saying to 
Camp Lejeune. Both sides will 
Saint Mary's Student Govt. Offices
charges of deserting and col­him ''I spit on you and all 
able to reject potential jurors,
laborating with the North Viet­people like you disgust me," 
as is done in civilian court.
namese, but the death penalty and ''You're in the military only 
Unless Garwood makes a
will not be considered 1f he is for the retirement, blood money 
written request for enlisted
found guilty, his commanding of the Vietnamese people.'' 
Open

personnel to be included in the
officei rull'rl yesterday. Garwood's lawyers mdicated 
jury pool, the panel will come
Brig. Gen. David B. Barker, during his hearing they will 
Mon-Sat

from officers' ranks. 
.

commanding general at Camp base his defense on two argu­
Schmidt said Garwood will
Lejeune in eastern North Caro­ments-that he was merely one 
2pm til13am

continue with his normal duties
lina, ordered a general court­of several Americans who col­
and no unusual restrictions will
martial for the 33-year-old na­laborated with the Vietnamese 
be placed on him.
tive of Adama, Indiana, on the communists out of fear, and 

. , D Feb14
Since coming to Camp Le­
basis of evidence from a mili­that his behavior was affected 
Valent1ne s ay 7pm-3am
jeune last May, Garwood has
tary hearing that ended Feb. 1. by head injuries he suffered 
been free to leave the base at
A conviction for either de­before going to Vietnam. 
will. While he works on the
sertion or collaboration could During his hearing, which 
3Drafts/S.l.OO
base daily, he now lives off base 
have led to Garwood's execu­was the military equivalent of a 
in nearby Jacksonville. 
Sicillian Kisses $1.00 
tion but Barker ordered that the civilian probable-cause pro­
Garwood returned to the
death penalty not be consi­ceeding, former prisoners of 
United States after passing a
dered, making the maximum war testified that Garwood lived 
Friday Feb 15 2pm-7pm
note identifying himself as an
penalty life imprisonment. with the communists, carried 
American to a foreign visitor in
"A general court-martial, guns and helped guard other 
Happy Hour Molson 754 
Hanoi last January.
without the death penalty, has Americans and claimed to be a been set," said Maj. John lieutenant in the North Viet­
Kamikazees 75 4 
Schmidt, a Camp Lejeune namese Army. 
spokesman. Garwood never testified No date was set for the during the hearing. 
Sen. Bradley
courr-martial, but Marine offi­I'm still amazed that anyone 
cials said they expect it to begin can look through a medical file 
~~ ~1~'SUNDAY
to speak atearly next month. · with 20 to 30 entries showing 
Garwood, who was a 19-year­concussion and then hold 
<:;<.~~~~· JAZZ NIIE
old jeep driver when he disap­somebody criminally responsi­peared near Da Nang in 1965, ble for their actions,'' Dermot fundraiser 
r~~cted calmly to Barker's de­Foley of New York City, Gar-, 
At The 

CISIOn. wood's civilian attorney, said Senator Bill Bradley (D.-N.J.), "We expected it, but I'm yesterday. a Rhodes Scholar and former 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT~ntrS-H8~ 
kind of surprised it came so The hearing, which began in professional b,asketball player, 

from 8to 12 ~ 
,~

fast," he said by telephone December, ended with the will be the special guest toni~ht from the office at Camp Lejeune hearing officer, Maj. T. B. at a South Bend fundraismg 
ng... ....
where he works as a mail clerk. Hamilton Jr., recommending dinner honoring Indiana Sena­Garwood, who returned to court-martial. tor Birch Bayh. 
TH DUNES JAZZ :
the United States last year, said Barker agreed with all of Senator Bradley, now serving he believes he will be acquitted. Hamilton's recommendations, his first term in the U.S. 
UARTET ~, --s .,~\.. 
~aka '" .

except for Hamilton's declara­Senate, spent the previous tenBarker referred to trial on the 
Don 1t Forget Our ·· 
tion that Garwood should face years dividing his time between following charges: the possibility of a death sen­playing basketball for the New-Violation of Article 82 of the 
tence. York Knickerbockers, working 
''All You Can Drink''
lJniform Code of Military Jus­Besides life in prison, lesser for various public service orga­uce, soliciting American forces sentences that Garwood could nizations such as the Office of 
ChJtmpagne Brunch
to throw down their arms. 
receive are a dishonorable dis­Economic Opportunity in-Violation of Article 85, de­charge, forfeiture of all pay and Washington and teachmg in 
Sunday from 12to 2:30pm 
sertion in time of war. 
allowances and a reduction in urban street schools.
-Violation of Article 104 

FOR ONLY
rank to private. Bradley, an All-American,actin~ as an interpreter, infor: Garwood accumulated about graduated from Princeton Uni­mer, Interrogator, indoctrinator 
$5.95 
$147,000 in back pay during his versity in 1965 with honors andand guard for· enemy· forces, years in Vietnam, but the was awarded a Rhodes Scholar­meamng collaboration with the 
enemy. military-is withholding that ship to Oxford University in 
pending the outcome of his England, where he earned a-Two violations of Article 
case. masters degree in politics. Af­105, with one specification al­Col. R. E. Switzer, a military
leging Garwood hit Army Pfc. [continued on page 10]
judge, will preside over theDavid Harker in the ribs aPd 
1 
,1 
1 
1 
~ 
i 
1 
1 
I 
, 
1,
. 
1 1 
The Observer Thursday ,February 14, 1980 -page 4 
FBI unearths retnains of $200,000 robbery 
The. e_v:ls of gambling ~an put a glint in your eye or money in the savings of Notre Dame Chanltes. Mardr Gras wzll contznue through this weekend. [Photo by Mzke Bzgley] 

This Sunday instead of your "usual" place try our famous CHAMPAGNE HIUJNCII February sweetheart prices 
Ft·h. 17th $'>.9'> 
F<"h. 24th $(,.50 

Bring in this ad and aND or SMC Srud<"nl ID for these prin·s to apply to your Sunday brunch party. 

VANCOUVER, Wash. (AP)-FBI agents armed with screens and accompanied by a backhoe con­ducted a $200,000 treasure hum along the Columbia River yes· terday, seeking more of a mysterious hijacker's loot and, maybe, the remains of D. B. Cooper h:m..;~lf. 
The agents tore up the sandy 
beach where an 8-year-0ld boy 
found several thousand dollars 
in crumb!ing $20 bills during 
the weekend. The FBI identi· 
fied the cash through serial 
numbers. 

A gaping pit, about 20 yards from the water's edge, showed the spot where Brian Ingram found the three packages of bills on Sunday. Tuesday, agents digging as deep as 3 feet came up with more bits and pieces of $20 bills from the spot that obviously is sometimes under water as the river level fluctuates. 
Any would-be treasure seek­ers were barred from the area by a sheriff's deputy and a locked gate. The only specra· 
• • • Captains 
mer Thorn Krutsch said he 
could not accept the Universi­
ty's financial reasoning. 

·'I refuse to believe that this 
place can get in any financial 
1rouble," Krutsch said. "They 
arc just afraid they might turn 
Notre Dame into a sports 
facwry to the extent that they 
ti,rgct academics.'' 

"The money issue shouldn't 
be as important as they are 
making it,'' added hockey Cap· 
rain Greg Meredith. "If they 
arc going to just have two 
national teams and pack in the 
minor sports then that is not a 
very good example for the rest 
of the nation." 

But what Meredith and others 
particularly objected ro on the 
part of the University is what 
Meredith called the "cloak and 
dagger tactics.'· 

·'They (the University) are ~aying that we don't have enough money for hockey, that h1Jckey uses roo much money," Meredith said. "Bur the Uni­versity decided searing capacity and ticket prices, and even if we made more money it still would nut pay what they say we lose,'' ··Yet they won't even say what the figures are," he continued. "Our coach can't even say any.t.hing about what is going 
on. 

Pat Crowell, a representative of the women's field hockey team, said the same is true of her team. "Our program stinks, and (Coach Astrid Hotvedt) is scared stiff to do anything. S1Jmeone is telling her not to say anything.·' 
··Eventually they are going to have to come to grips with the women," Crowell added, refer­nng to the University's non­compliance with Title IX, an HEW regulation which prohi­bits discrimination in intercol­legiate sports on the basis of sex. 
The 40 scholarships generally offered by six non-revenue producing reams will remain in limbo until a decision to rein­stale them is made by the Board of Trustees in the spring or their executive committee this weekend in Key Biscayne. 
Until then, according to the athletes. the scholarship cut portends bad things for all Notre Dame athletes. 
tors were three local ftshermen, a crowd of reporters and a herd of dairy cattle that munched away in a pen about a hundred yards from the digging. 
The mystery of what happen­ed to the man who hijacked a Northwest Airlines 727 jetliner on Thanksgiving eve 1971 ap­peared, little closer to solution. 
''It does probably raise as· many questtons :1s answers-­perhaps more," said agent Paul 
Hudson,  coordinator  of  the  
digging efforts.  "In my  own  
mrnd,  I  can  rule  out  the  

possibility that it was buried 
here.'' 

Bur how did the money come to be unearthed on the sandy shore where hundreds of per­sons come to fish during the breeding runs of salmon and steelhead? 
''That beach is material that was dredged from the middle of the channel in August 1974," said FBI spokesman Bill . Williams in Portland. "Bur the dredge will not accept anything as large as a body. A small satchel could go through." 
But he said the money could have been swept down the river after the dredging. 
''We simply don't know the srgnificance of that informa­l ron,·· he said. 
The spot, about five miles non heast of Vancouver, Wash., is several miles downstream from the flightpath of the :urliner on irs way to Reno, Nev., from Seattle. 
The flight had originally left Portland, Ore. Once it was in the air, the hijacker, who had srgned on rhe flight as Dan Cnoper, displayed what appear­ed to be a bomb and demanded the money and four parachutes. 
The passengers and rwo tlight attendants were let off in Seat de and the remainder of the crew was locked in the cockpir. Somewhere over slluthwest Washington, the man who has come to be known a~ D.B. Cooper disappeared out the back entrance with the money and a parachute. 
Until Sunday, nothing had been seen of any of the three. With the real identity of Cooper srill unknown, it is the only unsnlved hijacking in the na­tron. 
, , , Carter 
[,·untlnued from page 1] 

··An appropriate commission with a carefully defined pur­pose would be a step toward resolution of this crisis,'' Carter said. 
There were reports earlier that the United States had agreed in principle to a plan under which the approximately )0 hostages would be released to the U.N. officials, possibly in a week to ten days. Caner did not men­tion such an agreemant, but his statemerll that he could not comment funher"at this deli­cate time" suggested negotia­tions to end the 102-day stale­mate had reached a critical stage. 
Earlier yesterday, Iran's presi· 
dent said Ayatollah Ruhollah 
Khomeni accepted a three point 
"action plan" to end the stale­
mate. 

Carter told the news conference 
las night, "Recently there have 
been some positive signs al­
though experience has tausht 
us to guard against excesstve 
optimism.'' 

The Observer Thursday, February 14, 1980 -page 5 
Goulet urges reform of global economy 
by Peter i'vfacdonald sic needs'' approach~ says that the rich nations should help the Dr. Dennis Goulet. professor poor nations meet the basic of economics at Notre Dame, needs of their peoples before delivered a lecture last night to pursuing the enhancement and approximately 60 people in the luxury needs of the peoples in Hayes-Healy auditonum. In his the highly developed countries. lecture, entitled "Can the U.S. The third approach, and that Help Build A Just World?*" which Goulet recommended as Goulet spoke of the internal the best, is the ''global reform'' problems confronting America theory. The global reform the­and her role in aiding rhe ory calls for the overhaul of the undeveloped countries of the entire world economic system, world. and calls for a human needs 
approach to economic global reform.
Goulet says we must 
In order to help the world, something which our country
be willing to make 
can do, Goulet said, we must be willing to make drastic changes
drastic changes 

in our society. These changes,
in our society. however, are not impossible, and when made, the entire world would be better for them, 

The Field House alias Art Department and Isis gallery is a building that refuses to die. See story
Goulet began hts lecture by · he concluded. 
below [Photo by Plzllip johnson] 
stating that for the U.S. to be able ro help third world coun­tries, it must first realize the internal problem inits own so­
ciety. Our country, he said; lays claim to being one of the most developed countries in the 
Administrators ponder fieldhouse fate world, and the fact that we have the world's fifth highest per 
unrestricted space within the
by Sal Granata built if the Field House had decay of the structure itself.
capita income would seem to Senior StaffReporter been meant to stay." When asked why his depart­main part of t~e building.
support that claim. 
One proposed master plan for ment was leaving, Fr. Flanigan, Ceramtcs, weldmg, sculptingHowever, Goulet continued, The fate of Notre Dame's the University has a grassy dean of the Art Department, and other fine arts courses areDur country has a ninety-nine taught inside it.
ancient field house will remain mall in the place of the field replied, "We're going before
percent literacy rate, and we 
in limbo for at least another two house. the roofcaves in on us.'' At one
have the highest energy con­
years, according to University The consensus among time, Art faculty and graduate
sumption rate, so our per capita administration sources con­University officials is that the studenrs went up on the roof Farm labor income should be much higher. 
tacted this week. building will not last long after themselves to repair it.
Goulet questioned whether a high amount of material pos­Despite rumors to the con­the departure of the Art Dept. Although the building's days • 
trary, there are no immediate O'Meara, Ryan, and Dean Leo are apparently numbered, commttteesessions is srnonymous with 
plans to raze the building, Corbaci of Administration cite maintenance repairs are still
development. He said that peo­
which houses most of the Art economics as the major reason made to insure the safety of
ple are consistently finding that 
Department. University why the structure may not see students working there. Ryan 
to present 
obtaining material possessions 
Provost Timothy O'Meara said the eighties. said that he was fairly satisified
does not bring happiness; in 
tli~t the building will remain at Ryan said that it. was not that there were no immediate
fact, often the accumulation of least until the Art Depai-tmenr economical to repair or hazards today. 
documentary
material possessions brings no­
finds new space in the old rennovate the building. "The In 1969, the University
thing but the desire for more. 
Chemical Engineering last estimate was over $2 announced plans to tear down The Notre Dame Farm Labor
(;Dulet expounded on the idea building. No decision has been million for partial restoration. the field house. A controversy Organizing Committee willof whether ours is truly a made on what will happen It will cost less to rennovate the resulted and the Administration show documentaries on FLOCdeveloped nation, saying that afterward. O'Meara said that old Chemical Engineering relented. Since then, the and Campbell's Corporation onthere are three types of needs 
originally· the building was building.'' building has been operating on Sunday, Monday, and Tuesdaywhich face all people. 
supposed to come down when He added that it would be a budget of $10 thousand from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. inThe first needs are substinent 
the ACC wa£ built. A stay of satellite I 242 O'Shaughnessy
three to four years before the a year. "The decision wasneeds, those needs which are execution was granted in 11)6l). building would be vacated. A made not to maintain it," a Hall. Discus~jop fnd questionsrequired to live. The second When asked about the poss­final decision on the field house spokesman for the Art Depart­wdl be welcomed following the
type of needs is enhancement needs, those needs which en­ibility that the Field House has to be made by officers of ment said. documentaries, which have 
would remain after the Art the University meeting in joint The field house served as been done by Indianapolis andhance the human being and his 
Department leaves, Kiernan consultation. gymnasium and armory for the Toledo television stations. Thespirit. The third type of needs is Ryan, assistanr vice-presidenr ''The final decision will always Notre Dame community for siruation of migrant workers isluxury needs. those needs 
for Business Affairs said, "It be Fr. Hesburgh's," Corbaci over half a century. It is also the subJect ot the upcomingwhich may give the individual 
doesnt fir with anything in the said. the cradle of Notre Dame rc:ferendum on a proposed ban
pleasure, but do nothing to area. The library would not Another reason given for the basketball. Currently, artists of Campbell's and Libby's pro­serve human life or human 
have been built where it was evacuation was the advancing prize it for its great amount of ducts.
wee!-being.· 
Goulet said that our present markey system often places luxury needs ahead of the other two orders of needs, and there­fore the market system cannot be "an organiztng stimulus of 
Women's Sportswear 
economic setup." 
Goulet predic.:ted that the up­cllming decadl· will bring many change;, for CJpitalism in A­merica. Our s·xiety ha"" a long 
Ladies Sweaters, Blazers, 
way to go before it i~ completely developed, he --aid. (;oulet then -.jlltstiontd whe­ther the U.S. lan ha\(: a hand in 
Skirts, Pants and Shirts. the developm,·rJt of economic just ice in thC' \V0rld. He said that the world J.S a whole must 
Now reduced up to
institute gn··· . 1-:ar.gc" bcf0re true ecunomi\ ju"tice can be auained. Thv'-e changes, he said, can be m de if the leaders Df undevelop<-J counu·ies ar_e truly devoted 10 change, and rf the world's underdeveloped 
50%
countries recei·>e continual sup­port from outside countries. Goulet prese~..··d three models 
·Hurry-Sale is One Week Only! 
which would a· ,~w the Jevelop­ment of pooJ-'r natJ0'1S. The first model, -.., • ;· · ·~ radua­tion-integrati ' ::-:..~ >-f"-MS that 
ReAwooA i Ross 
third world , . ~ ~-slowly 
absorbed inr·~· :O~"'"' 
eCO'lOmJC l>L' 
... 
Scot.t~~~J~ Mal] Store Only
The secorHJ 
'· 
.. 


-

The Observer Thursday, February 14, 1980 -page 6' 
Minority numbers increase despite Bakke decision 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP) -for low-income minorities. Last year, I2 months after Allan The court also ruled; however, Bakke made his historic en­that a school could use an trance to medical school at the admissions program that gave University of California at Da­preference to race as one o vis, the first-year class of IOO several factors to promote di­included exactly one black. versity among students. 
That lonely statistic would Such a program has since been seem to be-ar ow rredictions by adpopted by Davis, and was university officials that minority already in effect in varying enrollmen1 .vould pli1mmet if degrees at the other four UC 
r 
the U.S. ~upreme Court ruled medical schools: UCLA. Irving, r against racial quotas at pr·>fes­San Diego, San Francisco. sional schools. In fact, according to John 
But' other statistics tell a Steward dean of student affairs different story -that applica­at Stanford University medical tions from blacks to the Davis school, a nationwide study last sehoul surged in I979, and that summer of the I20 medical 
overall mlllurity enrollment schools with white majorities 
acwally increased at Davis and showed that UC Irvine had the a' UC medical schools as a hrghesr projmrtinn of black. whole. Hispanit. arh Amc:rican Indian 
·!.a»I year (l Y7H) we realI>' felt mmorrtit's, 22.·; percent, UC: 
dw Bakke decision in adrms­San Franuscu was also amon slons. · · said Vicki Saito, infor· the top 10 wrth 16.5 percent. ma1 ion oftlcer for the Davis Stanford. wl11ch at the timt
·I frozen, snowfilled Notre Dame stadium has very few uses in the winter, but thisjogger knows a
~ medical school. ''This year. we rankecl finmh with 19.1 per­
good quzet place to exerczse when he sees one. [Photo by mike Bigley] 
felt it It-::.::..'' ··I talk ro students all the rnrsslon» commrrtee for mmon­
,r cent, Jropped 11s separate ad­
r 
lim<:, .. said Garv Perkins head t1es after the Bakke decision. of the informati;>n office 'at the Instead, it adopted a prograr
r 
largely. minority Extended Op­111 which mlllorities get 
r OEC head announces SBP/SBVP
r 
P•>rturHty Program on the Davis express preference butr campus, "and it's (the Bakke admissions committee include:
r 
decision) meant some real hesi­members of minorities who are 
~ qualifying candidate tickets 
tances . . . It's created much sensitive w differences in ed to begin campaigning until more of a pessimistic attitude. dents' hac kg rounds, Srewar
b~ Tum Koegel Uob Carn: and Torsten 
12:01 this Sunday. They are "On the other hand, it's said.
St.Jj(Reporter Marshall; J[m White and Randy !united to spending $75.00 on probably created other things The first class to be admittedMc!\Jally; and Thomas Behney their campaigns, and must more positive. Students realize under Stanford's new systemand Francis Guilfoyle. 
clistluse all campaign costs. they're going to have to be 200 last fall, had 22 percent blacks,r..m Call. head of Ombuds­Call noLed that the number of 
Any evidence of failure to percent better now because of Hispanics, and Mexican­
man Eln t ion Committee, re­candidates was up sharply over 
discluse the cost of campaign the added barriers.". Americans.
ka,nl \Tstenlay a list of five p;l»t years. "Last year we had m~uerials will be punished by Bakke, a white engineer, en­Bakke's first-year class of 100trt ket,., wlnl h have qualified for three candidates and in I978 we fi,rfeiture of the candidacy. tered the medical school I5 at Davis included four blacks,
till' l:dnu;1ry 25th Student Rody o1.h· had two.·· 
Should the primary result in miles east of Sacramento in two Mexican-Americans, no
President IVrce President pri­C:all also announced that the no one ticker receiving more September I978, under a Su­American Indians and I4 mary eit-Ltlll!l. olflnal SBP/SHVP debate will than 50 percent of the vote, a preme Court ruling outlawing a Asians. The year before hadTilt-following tickets quali­lw held Wednesday at 7 p.m. 
runoff will be held on February Davis program that reserved 16 included four blacks, eight
fied f;,r the ballot by submitting at Washington Hall. The 
27. of the I00 places in each class Mexican-Americans and I5petitions with 200 signatures debate will serve to "provide a Asians.
u·n·,rdential candidate listed public ti>rum ti>r the candidates 
At all five UC medical schools,first): }tm ''Slatts" Slattery and the i·ssues, '' according to first-year minority enrollment
and "UnLie" Keith Cooper; Call. 
Security explains campus 
in ll)77 and 1978 dropped fromPaul Rrehlt-and Don Ciancio; The candidates are nor allow­
2X percent to 27 percent of rhe wtal. Discounting Asians, mi­
admittance guidelines 
nority enrollment dipped from I I(J to 14.5 percent.
Neither on-campus nor off­
According to Security, some But last fall, sysrem-wide mi­
campus students are permitted
students are unfamiliar with the nurity enrollment in the first to drive on campus to either
rules governing admission to year class was 2l) percent of the 
load or unload laundry at either
campus through the gates, and total. Not counting Asians it 
the Badin Hall or Notre Dame
misunderstandings sometimes was 16 percent.
laundry facilities.

arise which result in uncomfor­t\t Davis, while only one black 
Students may be permitted on
table situations for both the enrolled out of six who were campus to pick up staff or
gate guard and the student. accepted, nin<" of I6 Mexican­
faculty personnel, including
Some of the situations and rules Americans entered, compared 
rectors, priests, and sisters, if
most frequently encountered to rwo of I H the year before. 
the people to be picked up make
are: There were also one American 
arrangements with Security be­
Students are not permitted to Indian student and 14 Asians,fi1rehand.
drive on campus to either pick for a total of 25 minorityNotre Dame is primarily a
up or drop off a date. This rule students, compared to 20 in
FLY FROM SOUTH BEND 
pedestrian campus. Admission
applies both during inclement 1'>78. 
rules are based on considera­
weather and after dark. Any Another sign that the impact
tions involving security and
TO FORT LAUDERDALE student concerned with safety Bakke may
o( the case be S<lfety of walkers and joggers.
after dark can request a securi­easing. Ms. Saito said, is the 
ty escort back to her dorm. The number of applications for ad­• only exception to this rule is a mission at Davis. 
ONLY $189 
scheduled hall formal when the Applications from blacks, Dean of Students and the which fell from 163 in 1977 to
Carberry

Complete package as low as $298 
Security Office has official no-HI in 1978, numbered 174 last tice from the rector. year, she said. Applications
•

No permission wtll be gtven to from Mexican-Americans fell
reszgns as

pick up friends . for wh~teyer from I47 to 155, bur she said
Complete package includes 
reason. This applies to bnngrng that was offstt by some ener­friends back to the dorm. getic recruiting by Mexican­
round trip non-stop jet fare 
coordinator

Students can obtain a 15 American srud;:·nts, who per­minute pass for loading or suaded many vf those who were unloading heavy or cumber-accepted to enroll.
7 nights oceanfront hotel accomodations and all taxes 
some objects if these arrange-Dr.)amesJ. Carberry, profes-Ms. Saito sad other reasons ments are completed before sur of chemical engin~ering at for changin~ t>nrollment par­
also available.National Car Rentals 
6:00 p.m. After 6:00 o.m., a Notre Dame, has· res1gned as terns at Davts were the medical special pass is required. This principal coordinator in Cataly-school'::. decisions to drop its includes architecture students. tic Reaction Engineering in the pass-fail grading system, to
DEPARTS MARCH 29 
Neither on-campus nor off-US-USSR Cooperative Program give letter grades and to re­campus students may drive to in Chemical Catalysis. The place iro-unu ,11al schedule of
RETURI\JS APRIL 5 
the Rockne Memorial for use of program was initiated in 1972 only JOt'l hours of required facilities. following formal US-USSR a-cla~ses a d.1~ with a more 
Only the parish community greement in the spirit of de­conver· , .:. ,! t.i:dule of longer from the local area is permitted tente to improve scientific and hours. 
for reservation information 
call Shaz 232-6831 
to drive onto campus for techni1al exchanges. In his She : , ... -' .., ..:hanges, ap­
I '·~ 
1 
or call toll-free 1-800-848-9540 ch::rch. Neither on-cam::ms nor 'e•ter of rPqipr.ariof'l Carberry ''Ff\\''• .. . :nlty to stren­-1 of~-campu.., _s:uJe.lt" are per· g~ve as hi. re-1 't n '\b..-brazeD :c program, . -raged
arrangements by Student Sun Trips, il"L. : ~:~~~~~~ 1_ 0 dnve to Sacred Heart ~~~~r~f~h~rt·~:~i~(:-~r~Jv(, <;:·· ·_ -~~r some 
· ·ts. 

...., ---· I .... .. -. ~--:r -.....-~ ......
. 

t+t-~
..-::=~·:.;.~;.:u.,.~ ~···. :.·. ~~~ r'"-:-;:.-~~-~;.:.__::-~~~~~~;=.! .. ·;---~---tit" <"'!":.. ,\'! ''! tr·,--:.~lt{,"!;:,;;;t,·h\1-~;-...-~ ·~w;· .-· ..:'!'"~-·:· ~J~;\.\.. ..,_... , ... ;i~?~ ~­

Thursday, February 14, 1980 -page 7
Features 

Musicviews 

Puttin' On The J))g 
Hounds 
(Colunil:iia) 
Puth'n 'on the Dog, the debut album from the Chicago-based bar band Hounds, is a mystery wrapped in an enigma. 
Most of the album, as is the case with most debut recordings by new artists, has too many rough edges to be anything but avoidable--the band and novice producer ] effrey Lesser are simply too inexperienced in mixing techniques to colorfully fill two LP sides completely, and as a 
'result, most of the performance, though full of fine effort, are flat and listless. The first impression of the band is that they're Httle more than another five-piece power-pop group from Chicago looking for a break into midwest stardom,Jike Styx or REO Speedwagon. Unfortunately, though the band is instrumentally capabfe, lead singer and principle songwriter John Hunter simply doesn't have the vocal range or melodic composition talents to create any ·really stimu­lating sounds. 
But, there are redeemin~ qualities in this otherwise dull premtere. "Do Wha Diddy Diddy,' "Under My Thumb" and "Who'll be Next in Line," are all extremely entertaining songs and well-produced. The catch is, these are the only tunes not written by the band, and are instead cover versions of previous hits by]eff Barry, the Rolling Stones, and the Kinks, respectively. In other words, these songs, particularly • 'Under my Thumb'', /ermutate old hits into a 
new soun  rife with successful inno­ 
vation.  
This  can  be expected from  a  bar  

band, which probably has done these old songs so many times they decided to iazz up their own versions, just to relieve the boredom of mechanically reproducin~ the tune. But it also gl~ringlypotnts out the weaknesses of thts group. 
If Hounds wants to succeed, then they must re-evaluate what direction thetr music is taking. John Hunter obviously believes tnat by combining the power structure of REO and the romanticism of Styx, he can create a synergy of successful Chicago rock. What actually happens, however, is that the synergy grows too diffused to become distinct or recognizable--the two styles simply must take too many compromises to each other to pro­duce an agreeable synthesis, and the result is base, neutral, and usually boring. 
Only when the band has a pre­arranged direction prescribed by the nature of the sons., as in the successful cover vers1ons; or when they allow one str.le to dominate the other, as on 'Workin' on My Cool"(REO influenced) and "The Moth and the Fire"(Styx influenced), does Hounds produce any listenable product. By trying to mix equally two opposing sounds, as on the rest of the album, the band creates little more than confused, directionless noise. 
Hounds has a future, if they get their act together, c~oose . a distinct musical path, and suck to lt. 
Tim Sullivan 
--... ,_ -·-·-,·----,_ 
Love Stinks 
The]. Geils Band 

(EMI) 
This side of George Clinton and Bootsy Collins, the]. Geils Band may . still be •' the funkiest band in the land,·· but after 10 years of recording together, they are exhibiting an alarming trait which can be expected from agmg rockers--mellowing. Love Sti11ks, their newest album, is a good one, as can be expected from a group which has consistently produced some of the best dance music of the pasr decade, but something Ns miss­mg--most notably a fonky rhythm seuion--and it keeps the LP from being a great ·one. 
The band continues to experiment, a concept they initiated with their come-back album from 1977, Monkey Island, when female vocals and a horn section much like Southside Johnny's were brought jn, but both were trashed by the time 1978's Sanctuary came out. For Sanctuary, the group left its old label, Atlantic (where it had to be one of the most massively underpromoted bands of the '70's), for EMI, cleaned up its sound greatly, and even tried a slow, pseudo-love son!J for one, "Theresa.' The love song fatled miserably, but it was . worth a. shot, ~nd the group contmues to try new tdeas. · 
Sometimes, while listening to Love Stinks, I wished they'd stuciC to some uf their old ideas. The title cut is a prime example. It plods. StephenJo Bladd's drumming is uninterested and Danny Klein's bass doesn't drive the song at all. "Love Stinks" is a pop song verging on a sellout, and it aoesn't bode well fer the future. 
The closest the band comes to a really hot funker is "Just Can't Wait," a nice tune, but even it lacks the magic. "Just Can'~ Wait" is a rehash of"Just Can't Stop Me" from Sanctuary, one of the best things that this group has ever done. "Jus' Can't Stop Me" has all the elements needed for a great Geils number and it works beautifully--opetling with Bladd pumping out a simple 4/4 beat, then J. Geils stepping tn to lay down the oasic riff, and when Klein 
, jumps in, his thumping bass altering the rhythm immediately, the music explodes into a delightful collage of funky cross rhythms and driving rock energy. When Peter Wolf steps up and howls jubilantly, "Magic Dick-­Tawlk r.o me," the sonR has built to such a frenzy that Magic Uick has no option but to blow one of the fiercest harp solos ever set to vinyl. By the finish, you're breathless. It is a magic moment, one that Geils had no trouble ca{>turing on earlier albums (and espectally on their live albums), but it is the only one on Sanctuary, and unfortunately there are none on 
Love Stinks. 

Another rehash is "Desire (Please Don't Turn Away)," an unabashed remake of "Chimes" from the Ladies Invited LP. Perhaps in an effort to recapture the intensity of earlier albums, Wolf and Seth Justman decided to try good songs a~ain. It doesn't succeed. The]. Getls Band is a goodtime, party band, and these guys just don't seem willing to make the effort to have a good time anymore. Although Peter Wolf's lyrics will never make it into Norton's Anthology, they fit the mood of Justman's funky tunes perfectly-· harmless, fun songs about "Dayun­cin at the ~ahhtee baybeee." The fun just isn t there on Love Sh'nks. 
Wolf's vocals are as rangy as ever, but as the band's mouthpiece, the same exuberance and spirit whi.~;h characterized the Geils band earlier are no longer around. On "Come Back," a typical Wolf plea for his lady to return, Wolf for once sounds 
almost pretentious, no ionger believ· able. Seth ] ustman, who produced the group for the ·first time, exl?eri­ments well with the synthestzer, previously not an element of the group, and it works to sa-.:e t~e song. 
Some fine instrumentals hold up 
''Tryin Not to Think About It'' and 
"Tifl the Walls Come Tumi>jin 
Down,'' the last of which features 
some great interplay between Geils 
and Magic Dick. It's good to see 
another humor piece on Geils' album, 
much like "Nightmares" or "Don't 
Try to Hide It," and "No Anchovies Please" on this LP is a funny piece of Steve Martin-esque farce seemingly lifted straight out of his Cruel Shoes book. 
But the lack of a good funky danceable beat is the albu~'s mat~ drawback. "Takin You Down" and "Night Time" both had the chance to be good songs, but Bladd and Klein don't have the funk in them. As a result, ] . Geils' guitar solos are t?mpl~tely uninspired and even Ma­gtc Dtck can't save "Night Time" from being a lifeless cover. 
T~e _importanc~ of the rhythm sectton m a band hke J. Geils cannot be overstressed. Stephen Jo Bladd and Danny Klein can stilf provide good dance rhythms whenever they want, and do so for about half of Love Stinks. But to really inspir(" the rest of the band, to really catch that magic moment when the intensity is match­ed by the exuberance, they have to extend themselves, and tht·y never do that on Love Sh'nks. 
Tom jackman 
,
,
,
,
,
, 
Ms. Starr marks her return with solos 
Ms. Susan Starr, a Tchaikovsky Competition winner, returns to Mich­iana for the third time to solo at the South Bend Symphony's concert on Saturday, Feb. 16 at 8:00p.m. in the Morris Civic Auditorium. . 
Praising Ms. Starr's most recent Carnegie Hall Recital, the New York Times commented, "She cracked and thundered through the sonata ... bril­liantly. She let the rhythms ebb and flow ... She has a beautiful tone and legato for the slower sections, and was not afraid to break out aggres­sively when it was called for. There was no mistaking the pianist's affi­nity for these particular Romantic works ... " 
Starr debuted at age six with the Philadelphia Orchestra and has since appeared with the New York Philhar­monic, Chicago Symphony, the Am­erican Symfhony, Boston PoJ>s and the Nationa Symphony. In a<ldition to the praises received from her South American and Far East tours, the pianist opened the 1977-1978 concert season with an honored invitation from President Carter to 
play at the White House. Ms. Starr also records with RCA· Red Seal and Orion Masterworks. In assessing her recordings, Stereo Review referred to Starr as, a "pianist to be reckoned with--not just on the basis of virtuoso· equipment but of innate musicality as well. Her performance is dynamic and brilliant ... and her playing is bevond criticism." 
Ms. Starr began piano studies with Mrs. E. Sokoloff and studied under Rudolf Serkin at the Curtis Institute of Music until her 1961 graduation. Starr was a winner in the First International Dimitri Mitropolous Competition while studying under Serkm. The pianist and her husband have two children and Starr continues to devote time to the Philadelphia College of Performing Arts. 
Conductor Herbert Butler will con­duct the Symphony in Barber's Overture to ''School for Scandal'' and Strauss' "Don Juan." 'Starr will perform Rachmaninoff's Concerto for Piano, No: 2. There will be a "Meet the Artist" party following the con­cert on the balcony of the Morris Civic Auditorium, sponsored by the Symphony's Women's Association. Refreshments will be served and a $2.00 donation is requested from adults. For concert ticket information call the symphony 
Beth Healy 
&Jutholdll 
dances tomo"ow 
Southold II, the apprentice com­pany to Southold Dance Theater will make its concert debut in a perform­ance at 8 tomorrow night. The concert will be held at Dancenter ; 10 
W. Monroe in South Bend. Admis­sion is $2.00. 
The company was created in August of 1979 to provide young dancers an outlet for performance experience. Barbara Doepke Po tuck, a member of Southold Dance Thea­ter, has served as artistic director of Southold II since its inception. 

The wor~ of six choreographerswill be represented in a concert that includes an excerpt from "The Nutcracker," a dance from SOT's "WJVA" and a tap solo. 






---------------------------------------~-----------~~--­
r ; 
~ _ The Observer Thursday,February 14, 1980-page 10 
t 

Faculty comment on Pinto trial 


by Michael Mader StaffReporter 

The Ford Pinto trial in Winamac will have little impact 
on either business or law, according to responses from Notre Dame faculty members. 
"Because the Pinto trial in­volves a major corporation in this country that touches the lives of so much of the public the way Ford does, it is worthy ofnational attention, but from a legal point of view, it's nothing new,' Fr. Michael McCafferty
DOOIISBUBY assistant dean of law, said. McCafferty said that no laws will be passed as a direct result of the trial's outcome becauseWGe'fot~· 
every law necessary to limit corporations is already written. "It s a matter of implementing them,'' McCafferty said. 

From a legal aspect, the trial will have little significance for Ford, because the possible fine of $30,000 is so small. However, McCafferty points out, "the subtle impact is image."
"Ford is fighting this case so vigorously because from a public relations standpoint, its tmage is declintng, • • McCafferty said. He pointed out that recent polls show the public is less willing to buy Ford's products because the company is on trial. 
•'Ford may get hurt if it loses; it may get hurt if it wins. Maybe less Pintos will be sold. It's hard to say,"
STANFORD 
Vincent Raymond, assoctate dean of Business Admin­istration offered. Raymond did not comment further.
SUMMER 
The other professors in the business school seemed to have little interest in the trial. Over the course of two days, several were too busy to discuss the trial. One {>rofessor in the marketing divtsion said he did 
SESSION 
1980 
not want to talk about it. Several marketing frofessors 
Introductory and advanced courses, workshops, ,md stminars 
worked on a model o the Pinto and won a prize in Detroit for
in the arts, earth sciences, education, engineering, 
their design. 
the humanities, social sciences, sciences and mathtmatics. 
A possible impact of the trial,

Summer session runs June 23 to August f6. 
according to McCafferty, is a 
All students in good standing are invittd to attend. 
For a coum bulletin and application form, mail the coupon below to Stanford Summer Session, Building f, Stanford 
Saint Mary 's dean calls for
University, Stanford, California 94305. 
ad hoc parking committee 
Please send me the Stanford 1980 Summer Session Bulletin. 42 by Patty Rydl• Mary Mullaney, 
Chip Dornbach, Martha Boyle 
Kathleen M. Rice, Dean of and Marti Estrada. 
Student Affairs at Saint Mary's, The committee held an OJ?en 
has called for the formation of forum review of SMC parkmg 
an ad hoc parking committee, regulations last night in the 
which will serve to evaluate the LeMans lobby. Students voiced 
regulations, sanctioning, ~nd complaints and offered 
policies of the SMC Parktng suggestions for the reorganiz­
Authority. Members of the ation of the Parking Authority. 
committee include: Complaints ~enerally cen-
Kathy Sweeny, Debbie Casteel, tered on the tnconsistency of 
policy enforcement among officials. Severity of fines, 
mandatory parking in the McCandless lot for all resident assistants, the "unreasonably 
SpiritualityofTHOMASMERTON 
A series oftalks by James Finley authorand 
strict'' observance of the 7:00 tc 
8:00 a.m. "fining period," and disorganization of day· student parking were among 
former Trappist Monk with Thomas Merton 
First Five Sunday Nights of Lent 
the other issues raised. 
The ad hoc committee will be distributing a survey in the near future to determine the 
8:00 to 9:30pm Crypt of SACRED HEART CHURCH 
February 24: MERTON ASGUIDEINTHESEARCHFORGOD 
exact nature of all student 
March March March March 

parking policy. 
complaint.
2: UVINGINTHEPRESENCEOFGOD 
The committee will meet with 
Dean Rice and Tony Kovatch, security director, to make 
9: SHARINGINTHEPASCHOFCHRIST 
16: THEPURIFICATIONOFLOVE 
recommendations and work for the implementation of a newly
23: UVING A LIFE OF PRAYER 
organized, more effective 
• • . New Dorms 
kontinued from page 1] 
Although several women were living in temporary quarters at the start of the fall semeseter, all had been permanently placed before Septemeber. Heppen said that processing housing contracts early in the Spring semester allows for a "smoother" placement pro­cess. He succeeded in reducing the cancellation fine from $250 to $150 to aid those students who were still unsure of off campus housing possibilities. 
Heppan ulso commented on social space in dorms. He said that every hall now has a twenty four hour lounge and at least one parry room. 
He commended junior Frank Guilfoyle and seniors Bill Vita and Jose Marrero for their accomplishments in renovating party rooms. Heppen said that 90 percent of the work was complete and that he had just procured University Funds to underwrite the purchase of furniture. He will ask the committee of students to set priorities for distribution. 
The halls, underwritten by a 
$7 million gift from Frank ) . Pasquerilla ofJohnstown, PA., were originalfy planned to absorb a 500 student increase in the Notre Dame undergraduate student body of 6,800. 
The new places were all to go to women, 1600 of whom are now enrolled. 
Left open was the question of whether the women would be housed in the new halls or in a residence hall now occupied by men. 
• • . !jJeech 
kontinued from page 3] 
ter returning to the states and bt>fore retiring from the sports world. Bradley wrote a htghly acdaimed book, "Life on the Run," which recounted some of his experiences as an athlete on the road in America. In addi­tion, the former athlete and public servant has been award­ed two honorary doctoral de­grees. 
Two Hoosier con$ressmen, Floyd Fithian and John Brade­mas, will also be lending their support to the Bayh campaign effort which is currently m tts formative stages. Second Dis­trict Congressman Fithian of Lafayette is now in his third term in the U.S. House of Representatives· and serves on the House Agriculture, Foreign Affairs and Government Q. perations Committees. Before his election to Congress in 1974, Fithian served in the U.S. Naval Reserves as a comman­der and taught history at Pur­due Universtty. 
Elected to Congress in 1958, ]oh~ Brademas has been repre­sentmg the people of north· central Indiana for over twenty years. He is the Majority Whip of the House, and is chairman of the House Administration Subcommittee on Accounts. Througnuut his career, B.rade­mas has been one of the most active supporters of education and the arts in America. Through his position on the House Education and Labor Committee, he has helped im­prove both quality of education and the arts and their accessibi­lity to all Hoosiers. 
The dinner toastinl{ Birch Bayh in his possible otd for a fourth Senate term will be held in South Bend's Century Cen· ter. The reception will begin at 6:oo p.m. and the dinner and program will follow at 7:oop.m. 
change i,n management policy concernmg documents. "Internally, one effect may be the fightmg going on over documents,'' McCafferty 
noted. ''Ford will be far more cautious about what documents it leaves in files," he said, adding that the corporation will probably get rid of filed documents more quickly. 
The prosecuting attorney, Michael Cosentino, had been trying to introduce Ford documents which included safety reports concerning the Pinto. This trial marks the first time a corporation has been taken to court for criminal negligence. Corporations have previously been tried for civil-offenses, and occasionally for such criminal matters as antitrust suits. 
·If Ford is found guilty, the effect on the company's other pending trials is unknown, according to McCafferty. "The actual impact on pendmg civil litigation is very difficult to gauge," he said. 
If the lawyers prove major points in this case, it will make these proofs easier in succeeding trials, McCafferty alloy.-ed, but the proofs must agam be presented. "Since this is a cnminal matter, most of the evidence in this trial cannot be introduced in civil trials,'' McCafferty said. 

t:•' ...
•L • •,.

. • • -' 't,. .-' r·J! •!, .1-...; '(•·.i .. ~-' 
---------------------~--------------------------------~----------------~~· 
~:, 
The Observer Thursday, February 14, 1980 -page 11 
Soviets announce possibility of "Withdra"Wal frotn Afghanistan 
(AP) -The Soviet Union has advised key Asian, European, and African countries in recent days that it will begin with­drawing troops from Afghani­stan when that country's border with Pakistan is stabilized, diplomats in London reported Wednesday. 
But Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko, in New Delhi for talks on the Afghan situation, gave Indian leaders little or no hope for an early pullout, Indian officials indica­ted. 
Indian, French, Algerian and other informants in London said Afghanistan has made an over­ture to Pakistan proposing talks to resolve their differences. A spokesman for the Pakistani government said it would wel­come such talks but only after a complete Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan. 
In other developments yes­terday: 
-The Soviet Union blasted as "strange" and "impudent" Zbigniew Brzezinski's condem­nation ofany partial withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghani­stan. Brzezinski, President Carter's national security ad­viser +'has clearly forgotten that the language of ultimatums cannot be used in talking with the Soviet Union,'' the official Soviet news agency Tass said. He suggested Monday that a partial pullout would signal the start of a Kremlin ''peace offensive" to counter interna­tional condemnation of the So­viet intervention. 

-In Peking, the Chinese Com­munist Pary newspaper said the Soviet Union wanted to "hood­
wink  the  world  public"  and  
legitimize  its presence  in  Af­ 
ghanistan  by  staging  only  a  

partial troop withdrawal. A commentary in the People's Daily said Moscow was spread­ing word ofa partial pullout ''in an attempt to pass itself off as a good guy and absolve itself from world condemnation.'' 
-At the U.N. Commission on Human Rights in Geneva, Swit­zerland, the United States charged that executions, tor­ture, and arbitrary arrests which became ''commonplace'' under previous communist re­gimes "tragically continue" under the current Afghanistan governmenr. "for whose of­fenses the Soviet Union must be held directly responsible." 
U.S. delegate Jerome Shestack said executions may now total 5,000-with summary executions reportedly carried out at one prison alone at the ''rate of 20-50 each night for months." 
-The Red Cross warned that thousands more Afghan refu­gees are expected to cross into Pakistan, where the situation could soon "rapidly deterio-
Derailed train slams into gas storage tank 
SLEDGE, Miss. (AP)--Flames lines. Pipes leading from the engulfed a 30,000 gallon pro­tanks began to burn, sending pane gas storage tank hit by a flames 20 feet into the air. derailed coal train yesterday Sandra Byard said her family
and authorities emptied the awoke to sirens about 4 a.m. town of its 600 residents in fear ''and people were shouting for of an explosion. everyone to leave. 
Officials said everyone in the '·Pretty soon everybody was farming community in north­calling everybody else, telling west Mi!;isissippi community them to get out," Mrs. Byard
fled after coal cars ofan Illinois said. ") ust as quick as we Central Gulf train jumped the could, we got up and left." tracks and slammed into gas storage tanks in the south part of town. Authorities blocked all raods into the area. 
''There is nothing else to do Travel series until it either burns itself out or explodes," said Bill Hickey, a spokesman for the Mississippi 
commences
Highway Patrol. 
"Everybody's out," he said. "The~~·s nobody left in the town. 

this Friday
} .M. Murray, a state inspect­or said the tank was likely to The Biology Travelogue, a explode when the level of the series of informal presentations liquid dropped. given by Notre Dame faculty, 
"It's sort of like a pan full of sratf, and students, will be held water sitting on a stove,'' he on Fridays from 12:15 p.m. to 1 said. "When all the water boils p.m. in the biology auditorium, out, th~, pan is going to rm. 278 of the Galvin Life weaken. Science Building. Speakers will "When the liquid drops to the provide photo presentations of level of the fire ...that's when places and events they have it's going to blow." witnessed. 
Authorities noted that diesel The Travelogue is open to fuel storage tanks were located anyone interested, and. anyone nearby and that several homes who has slides to show may were less than 200 feet away. A contact Theodore J. Crovello at storage building containing 7496. The Travelogue schedule dynamite was in the area but for the next five weeks is as 
· officials said there were no follows: detonator caps and the February 15: "Seville: A U-explosives should only burn if nique View,'' Irwin Press. the tank exploded. February 22: "Soviet Central 
A long 30,000 gallon propane Asia," Theodore J. Crovello. tank, which contained about February 29: 35mm Nature 15,000 gallons of liquified gas Photography: The transforma­at the time, and a smaller rion of the picturesque to the butane tank were knocked from ;)hot.)geni Lioyd l\. Davidson. their concrete stands when 17 I\1arcl~7: "·A Close Look ­cars of the coal train left the lD::.e<;ts and Uther Small Crea­
'"•.C'<~ l . •· S :..pL.~n Sims. "he .::&.:s c£un.:hed. into ch'-· · l-i. "Beautiful New tanb and ripped up feeder ~.k.xico," Don Vogl. 
~ '=' 11:-; 'I . ~-. '!' ·.:,.." ' • ~ -_..,. ' ~-..... ~ ,.. • ; "T "':' -.,... .. • .... .... • : 
rate. An estimated 500,000 Afghans have fled since the Soviet intervention. 
-An Egyptian newspaper, AI­Akhbar, reported more than 1,000 Cuban troops are on their way to pro-Soviet South Yemen aboard a Soviet passenger­cargo ship that went through the Suez Canal. The report said the 21,3 70-ton vessel, Leonid Sobinov, made its way into Port Said at the northern tip of the canal Tuesday night. U.S. offi­cials in Washington revealed Tuesdav that the United States 
is  sending  a  Marine  amphi­ 
bious  force  into  the  Arabian  
Sea.  

1980 CH££R.C£A'D9KG 
T.-~Ki;ct 
7:00 fJIIt ~. Felt. 14 iK flee A.C.C. Pit 

·NOTICEII 
Que to an eliot In the The Obaetvet, the Rivet City Recotds 
sale ad did not Nn as scheduled last Ftlday. Thetefore, 
Rivet Cl~ Recotds has decided to oHet thesameaale 
ptlces to Notte Dame and St. maty' a students, faculty . 
and staff this Thutsday, Ftlday, Satutday and Sunday 
Feb.14-17. 

hND/SffiC i.d. this THURSDAY thru SUNDAY: 
INVENTORY CLEARANCE!!! ALL ALBUmS, 8 TRACKS & CASSElTES Jl.OO OFF NO LlffiiT!IJJ (no coupons needed) 
The Observer-SportsBoard Thursday, February 14, 1980 -page 12 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) ­
East to the Indiana Class AAA 

participants have tilled out the proper
Notre Dame's Fighting Irish 

playoff championship, has al­interhall insurance forms. After the firstwill be going for quality, not ready announced he will attend Interhall week of the tournament. any participantquantity, among their 1980 Notre Dame. who has not met the insurance require­tootball recruits, says Coach ment Will be dropped.
Kiel is the most heralded
Devine 

Dan Devine, who has already 1ne men's tournament is single elimina­Men's Racquetball
quarterback to come out of 

tion. Each match considts of three games
snared the top high school 
Indiana since Purdue's Mark 

(best of three series.) It is the responsibi­Herrmann in 1977. lity of the participant to contact his denka(8489)recrutts The NCAA limit is 30. but opponent and set up the match in each Jackman(1441 )-Purcell(8985) vs. Dowd 
• quarterhack in Indiana. Pierce(1423)-Pfau vs. Reagan(B375)-Wei· 
Among the prospects who

Devine says he will •·probably round. (Phone numbers are listed in (289-9697)-D iesser(277-3845) sign about as manv a·s last visited the campus last week parenthesis below.) The results of the Koch(1679)·Schmitz(8892) vs. Onufer were two All-state players from racquetball matches must be turned in. in (11 09)· Hatfield(2255)
season, 25 or 26. '' 

Ohio. quarterback' Scott person, to the interhall office before noon Kitchen(1948)-Wagner(1901) vs. Viseber
quality 

The first day football pros­of the following Weonesday. Failure to (1198)·Borger(4593)
Grooms of Miami Trace and 

peers may sign a letter of intent report the results to the lnterhall office McAward(2252)-Basso(3231) vs. Espngrunning back Torn Hassel of Will mean disqualification of both parties.
IS Feb. 20. but quarterback 
Cincinnati.
Blair Kiel, who led Columbus 
Molarity 


ITS BE61~1N6 1tJ GET EJ6Y 
TO SLEEP ON 1RI!IN5.. SO, WE 

( Spring Breakout 
South Bend to Ft. Lauderdale Charter at $189.00 March 29-April 5 
Hotel rooms available Fir~t Bank Travel in Badin 


lEtna's 
recrutttng on your campus. 
iEtna Life & Casualty has a continual need for good people. Ambitious people. People heavy with potential. People we can train for rewarding careers-
In finance, engineering, business administration, data processing, actuarial science, accounting, underwriting and commurucauons. 
Discover how .!Etna Life & Casualty can be the catalyst that ignites your growth potential. 
, Stop by and talk with our campus recruiter February 21, 1980. Contact your Career Planning and Placement Office now for an appointment. 
An equal opportunity lr~ ;:r'fffl't employer. ~ 
UFE&CASUALTY 
-------------------·--------·------_.i 

(3235)-H ines(3235)Results will only be accepted if the 

Zakorski(4511 )·G uzzaroo(6851) vs. Miler (3374)·H ughs(3380) Slatt(1725)-Philbin(1652) vs. Ringlein (3580)· Freedman(3588) Marks(3625)-Meistllr( vs. Doerine(3646)­
by Michael Molinelli BRown Vanderhoff(1670)-Young ~1670) vs. Rchr­

bach(3321 J-Cogan(3324) Skelly(104fl)-Ciark vs. Payne (6967)­
0·Brien(7791) 
Freedman(3580)·Ringlein(3588) vs. Kirn (7374)-Yordy(3670) Adams(1183)-Goyette(11 83) vs. Norman (3371 )-Fassler(3372) Lawler(3559)·Brady(1996) vs. Lynch(1185 )·Lundgren Bye vs. Lorenzini(1623)-Andrews Buller(1166)-Mc0onneii(J166) vs. Cheri (1161 )-Meakin Brown(277-0671)-Gallager vs. Mulligan (3285)·Mulligan(4128) 
Co-Ree Racquetball 

Adams(11 83)·Cervanek(1279) vs. Goyette (1182)·Bialek(8050) Olson(8892)·Kiug(7942) vs. Misliviec (8624)·0wens(1 884) Kahale(6755)·Marget(8148) vs. Dorney (6987)-Brown(277·0671) 

Onufer(1109)·Dawson(1295) vs. Burton (1653)·Gallager(6791) 
r 

The Observer -Sports Thursday, February 14, 1980 -page 13 
• • . Ne-w York 


kontlnuedfrom page 16) 

find out what he's been doing and what he has planned for the future. Last year he even managed to get interviewed on the TODAY show. Figure that one...a college basketball c6ach comes to New York-to play a team like Manhattan College and he gets his mug on the TODAY show? 
Of course all of that helps things like ticket sales and recruiting tremendously. But one gets the distinct feeling that Digger doesn't do it for the practical value alone. Curtain calls and footlights are in his blood and every trip to this city .is another encore. 
''This place is Mecca,'' he likes to say with a smile that makes one wonder whether he wakes up every morning and bows to the east-just to be safe, of course. He has so many relatives, friends and restaurants to visit when he comes here that he doesn't stop moving from arrival to departure. Bm he will take a few hours tonight and coach a basketball game at Madison Square Garden against the Fordham Rams. And like everything else about his romance with this city, there is poetic justice in that too. 
You all remember of course that Fordham is where Digger started his head coaching career in 1970. In that.]irst year he led the Rams to a 26-3 record and a trip to the NCAA playoffs­someplace they hadn't been since 1954 and someplace they haven't returned ro since he left them. He stayed only one year of a three-year contract because Notre Dame needed a coach and Notre Dame wanted him and he always, always wanted Notre Dame. 
"Dear Ara..."he wrote back in 1964 when he was a junior high coach at St. Gabriel's and a letter to then legend-in-training Parseghian might just as well have been re-routed to the North Pole. Ara did get the letter· it told of an ambitious youngster that someday hoped to occupy the office down the hall from his. But the youngster never got an answer. Hey, legends are busy guys! 
But somebody up there (at the top of the ~mpire State Building, of course) must have hke~ D1ck Phelps because he wound up getting the Job he always dreamed of. And it happened a hell of a lot quicker that even he expected. 
But, unlike most fairy tales, this one's happy ending was marred by a bunch of Fordham fans who thought it was pretty nasty of Digger to take them to the altar and slip out the back door. 
''I guess everyone gets mad when they lose a good coach," points out David Rice, Director of Athletics at Fordham. "But you can't really blame Digger for taking a better job." 
These days though, the anger has mellowed, says Rice_ But one can't help but suspect that by tip-off tonight at Madison Square Garden, there will be a few diehard Ram fans in the stands who 
will  do  all  they  can  to  make  sure  Digger  
remembers  that  they  remember.  And  that  
they're still mad.  

"That's the New York mentality," laughs Rice. "They won't let anyone forget. I don't thing it's ·serious, though. In fact, I'll be interested to see what happens.'' 
Probably not much will. Rice is right when he says that New Yorkers have mellowed on the subject of Digger's departure. In fact, most of them don't even remember that he coached here. They're too busy with more important issues like balancing the budget and keeping Billy Martin out of jail. 
. Hockey's future 
mENDOZA'S GUITARS, REPAIRS, ACCESSORIES 1mile north of campus
_272-7510
f.;untmued from page 16) 

ho~ke_y programs in the west.A little over 20 Division I programs 
exist m the east, the majority of them members of the East Coast 
Athletic Conference. This the core of college hockey inJthe United 
States, and the best teams consistently are members of the 
WCHA. 

In eight years in the WCHA, Notre Dame has never missed the 
playoffs. Or, in other words, Notre Dame always makes it to the 
NCAA playoffs for college hockey. 
People accuse the hockey pro~ram of being unsuccessful, but if they knew what they were talkmg about, they would realize the cornpetmvel!~ss of the league and the limitations coach Lefty Smith has m recrumng. Top players from Canada can enter as freshmen when they are 21 years-old, stick around a year or two and then take off f?r the _pros. They have no problems getting into state school~ hke Mmnesota, where there is a separate physical educauon dass for hockey players, or Wisconsin or the others. 
Smith ~as no ~ntent!on o~ bending any rules. He belie'ves firmly in everythmg this Umvers1ty has stood for, in academics and athletics, and is readily recognized by knowledgable people as one ?f the best in the business. More importantly, no one has ever Impressed me more as a man. He sincerely cares most about the well being of his players and everyone connected with the program. Yet all the people from the Golden Dome can say is: where is your national championship? 
Only three weeks remain of the regular season and the Notre Dame hockey team finds itself in a fight for Irs life. One knowledgable writer has said the only thing that could save it is a trip to the NCAA Final Four in Providence, R.l.,at the end of !vfarch. Cut~acks are otherwise certain. Ifany substantial cutbacks m scholarships to hockey come out of the meeting this weekend the program is dead. ' 
"~r. Hesburgh, if_you cut b~ck on scholarships, that's it," said se~11or _Greg Meredith, captain of the hockey team. Meredith's pomt IS that unless you have a hockey team with sufficient scholar~~ips,_ th<:rc; _is no place for it to play. It could not be competitive In DivisiOn I. 
"I speak for the 16 players on scholarship who will be here next year," said Meredith. "If you are going to cut the program, do ·it right away." 
There is still some hope. The University can decide to pull out of the WCHA and enter the CCHA to cut back on travel expenses. It can decide hockey is a worthy program on its own merits and come up with the money to keep it going. It can wipe out the program all together. 
The program has not gotten a completely fair shake from day one, and I hope the university board has the good sense to render a fair decision this weekend. It's about time Notre Dame hockey 
received one. 
.. 

Sports Briefs _ ___, 
DePaul continues to win 
VALPARAISO,Ind. (AP) -Mark Aguirre scored 23 points and Skip Dillard added 20 Wednesday night as tor-ranked DePaul routed Valparaiso 95-71 in college basketbal to bring its record to 21-0. 
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS... 
HELP BUILD OUR 
ENERGY FUTURE! 
STONE & WEBSTER 
A leader in the design, engineering and construction of conventional and alternative energy systems, will be interviewing on campus on 
Feb. 21, 1980 
We would like to discuss career opportu­nities with you at this time. 
See your Placement Office for interview arrangements. For more information write or call Paul White collect at (617) 973-8684 
/ 

The Observer -Sports Thursday, February 14, 1980 -page 14 
insult," said ThomasHsueh, Taiwan No." "It was like Napoleon's re­The first run of luge was the 
... Taiwan 
!continued from page 161 
pae1 Olympic Committee, and not use their traditional an­them. The courts up this and the Taiwan team would not accept it. 
''The mere suggestion that we have to accept any flag but our national flag is a downright spokesman for the 18 athletes from Taiwan as the delegation packed to leave just two hours before the opening ceremony 

As a final gesture, a dozen banner-carrying Taiwanese stood outside the entrance to the stadium where Vice Presi­dent Walter F. Mondale offici­ally opened the Games. Their red and yellow banners read ''Republic of China Yes ­
The Olympic scene continued to be marred by the failure of a bus transportation system and 
many athletes as well as spectators had to walk a mile and a half -back from the opening ceremonies at the sta­dium on the horse show grounds south of the village. A monumental traffic jam deve­loped as the ceremony ended and thousands began the hike. 
treat," said David Israel, a columnist for the Chicago Tri­bune. 
One state trooper was injured when a motorist tried to crash a roadblock on checkpoints locat­ed on the only three roads leading into Lake Placid. Only 1,800 private cars are allowed in the Olympic area because of the congestion they would cause. 
only competition. In men's competition, Dettlef Gunther of East Germany moved to an early lead in defense of his 1976 Olympic gold medal with a track record time of 43.20 Vera Zozulya of the Soviet Union led from the top of the run in a bid to upset Melitta Sollman ofEast Germany in the women's com­petition. No Americans were in the top 10. 
Classifieds  All classified ads must be received by 5:0CJ'p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either In person or through the mall.  
FOUND: Sum of money in women's washroom of South Dining Hall. CallNotices 4526 to claim. FOUND: Feb. 7th, Calculator in Eng.Vergiss Fasching sainstag nicht! Spass Bldg_ Call 8922 to identify. muss seln Delta !'hi Alpha FOUND: Green plaid scarf in Bus. Bldg. 8785. Get the acts together!! NAZZ MUSIC COMf'ETITION is March 7. Applica­Found--1 pair of IOflg brown leather tions available February 18, Due gloves at Junior Class formal. Call February 27. First of five prizes: 1189 to identify_ TRIPLE DIGIT CASH Mor1issey Loan Fund N.D. Student For Rentloans. $20-$200. Due in one month. One percent interest. Basement of Lafortune. 11:30-12:30 M-F. Last day For Rent: lo1 May grads to apply is March 14. 4th girl needed at NO apts. Call 234-7220. Spring Break Daytona Trip-Bus Transportation with FOR RENT Next school year, nice Hotel $199 large homes, furnished. couple blocks Drive'n Save lor $99 from campus 217-3604, 288-0955 Drive'n save to Ft. Lauderdale $109 only 6 rooms left Roommate wanted. Share house with 6 days-5 nights private larye bedroom and bath. Rec For information Call Ken 283-1387 room with pool table, laundry facilities HBO, kitchen priviledges. NO area. Custom made resumes from the word Busline. $1!:i0 month. 233-5349. Eve­processors get results. The one-time nings. charge ol $15 includes professional styling, wording your resume just We rent dependable cars from $7.95 a r1yht, and typing to make it look its day and 7 cents a mile. Ugle Duckling '1est. Write today­Rent-a-car. 921 E. Jefferson Blvd. The Word Processors Mish, Ind. 255-2323. 601 N. Walnut Bloomington, IN 477401 Two roommates needed for large off-campus house. Male or female. Typing done in my home--You deliver Everything furnished except person­and pick up. Call 232-3732 als. $120/$130 per month. Call 289­_0103 niohts. There will be a MECHA meeting this Saturday at 2 p.m. in the basement ot Lewis HaiL Refreshments will be For Sale  Going to Ft. Lauderdal? (Break) If you need someone to share accomodations, Call 7923. Anyone interested in cooking classes phone "Patsy's Pantry" 272-5640. OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/year round. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia. Etc. All fields, $500-$1,200 monthly. Expen"P,S paid. sightseeing. Free info. write t-JC Box 52-14 Corona Del Mer, Ca 92625. WANTED: Need ride to Denver over spring break. Will share driving and exnenses. Call Dave 277-1742. Tickets Parents on first trip to N D would love to see Marquette game Good$$$ for 2 GA 's call Candy 7820. Help! I Truckload of guys coming down for Marquette gam . Need tickets. Money's no obej~·t_ vii Brad 3128 or Dennis 3131 Need ~ GA tickets for Marquette caiiBill a 1104. Pay B1g Bucksll Take ·lY money, just sJII me 2 GA Marruette 'ickets, must know soon, Sea· 1771 Wnat to ee Willie-Wampum and West o1 Warriors get Wamped I! Call Mr. V\'1-'.-WA evenings at 288-5891 if you have Marquette student of Ga tix. My Dad nees 2-4 GS's for Marquette. Please phone AI McGuire Jr. 1388.  Please help-1 need 2-4 GAs for Pangborn needs any musicians, but DePaui-Pay _41-5223. expecilly guitarists and flutists, and singers. especially girls to help with Desperately need Marquette GA tix music for Sunday masses. Call Dan your price Call Sean 3114. 8360. Not a sports fan myself, I can't Liz, understand the willingness to pay such Try the brake next time! an exorbitant price for 2 DePaul M. tickets. Call 6980 if interested. DAVE* Need DESPERATELY 2 GA or student You're the best person to lose sleep tix for DePaul Money no object!! call with! We'll have to do it more often Kathy at 1314. (only serious) Love ya lots Name your price for DePaul student or Patti GAs. Satisfaction guaranteed. Kathy Fox 1343. A NANCY CULP FAN CLUB IS FORMING* CONTACT 501 GRACE Need two DePaul GA tix for Dad in FOR INFO. Chicago $Rich 1187. ATTENTION HERB HOPWOOD Need GA and student DePaul tickets We could have more than one thing in call 232-7314. Thanks. common. Be daring ...Go for it!! Girl on page 41 I need 2 GA and 2 student tix to DePaul game will pay your Price. Call Kathy Sweeney (SM C 4727) Anna (SMC) 41-5322. Today she's legal. Free kisses and hugs for all eligible Domers. --------~------­$$$$Desperately need 2 Dayton Tix Ron 8479. · Til min pingvin. jag hoppas, det du en bra Dag will har. Must have Dayton tix. Please help. Auch Herzliechen Gluckwunchen Zum 41-5710. Beburtstag! din alskling WHY CAN'T PEOPLE WRITE THESEPersonals THINGS IN ENGLISH??????? Happy Valentine's Day Andrea and Is he not ugly? He is zeto. Zeto lor Judy L. The dinner was great. UMOC -80. Joe F. Little Goose,--~------------­ATTENTION ALL NROTC, NROTC/ Thanks for Inviting me home... we'll MO, and PLC's. Emper Fidelis Society have a blast!!!!! HUFF 

Organizational Party at 832 NO Ave. 
available. WOMEN: True Romance could be Apt 2A. on Friday, Feb. 15 7:30p.m. If 
yours. I'm loosing for a beautiful girl 
you need a ride, meet in room 110, Hurry to reserve your spot for thLFOR SALE: 2.5 Cubic foot refriger­
Typing in my home. 277-3085. Call with personality and MARDI =nE NROTC Bldg. at 7:30 or call Jim BAHAMA's suitcase party. Call 174f.
ator. Call 8505 for details. TIX TWAROZ 3526.
betweBn 8:00 and 7:00. 234-2862 late evenings. lor info. 
Students._ .Need an inexpensive sofa,
FLOR'DA SUNSHINE EXPRESS Nl~d DePaul GAs for former ND b-ball ' 0
GULP C, GULP CULP GULP GULP Become a rart of the Stall!! 
Leave Notre Dame Circle 6:00 p.m. love seat. kitchen set. chair, table, player preferable 4 together .$$$$Call An Tosta Organizational meeting
lamp at cost?
March 27th-Arrive Daytona Beach Pat 1791. Nick B. and lvwe 0. What's Rosie Sunday. Feb. 17th, 7 p.m. In LaFor­
THE INSIDE OUTLET hasNEWapproximately 3:00 p.m. March 28th. 
been doing sine" _,o's been gone? tune Little Theatre. 
Dinner-rest stops enroute. Leave Des­furniture at super savins. 5 percent Need 2 GA Depaul tickets. Any Price! I Be there
discount. 2122 South Bend Ave. Call Tim, 8605.
ert Inn Hotel 7:00 p.m. April 7th. I would love a ride to the Loop anytime
277-7772.
Arrive Notre Dame approximately 4:00 Thursday or Friday and will of course DETROIT CLUB: 
p.m. April 8th. MWF 10-3 Helpl need Marquette Student Tix. 
share cx~on~es ... Call John at 8547. ~ :. "C!~rles available 
Price includes transportation ONLY! Tues. 1-5 Call Joe 6251. for students from
Thurs. 1-8 ­$165 per person-$50.00 deposit to hold An Tostal organizational meeting Sun. Detroit Area.
Nffild Marquette tix call 8479.
Sat. 10-4
your reservation balance due March Feb. 17th, 7 p.m. in Lafortune Little Pickup in 375 Dillon (Pat 1850) orTry us before you buy!!

15th. Theatre. EVERYONE is invited and 319 Farley (Rosemary 6826) •
MUST HAVE DAYTON TICKETS IF I
Transportation via air conditioned­encouraged to attend. No experience

WANT TO EVER GO'HOME AGAIN!!
restroom equipped luxury coach. Call FOR SALE necessary. Need Ride to Greenbay, Wisconsin
Please call 41-5710.
RAINBOW TRAVEL, 301 N. Michi­Flash : Photographi equipment for Friday, February 15. Call 41-4427. 
gan, Plymouth. IN 46543--219-936-sale--fantastic bargains !--cameras, 
Mike, ---------------­
lenses. Call 232-4129. Businessmen Need depaul GA's wilD­
5678. DON'T WAIT-CALL NOW!! Thanks for taking the pix (not the ZETO .... to see him is to retch. I
ing to pay corporate $dollars$. call 
one of me) Hope you have a Happy ----------------I
1969 Delta 88 Oldsmobile Runs well. Greg or Eddy 1757. 
Valentine's Day Anyone interested in contributing 1
Asking $325.00 Call 272-9007 after 5 
Beth some photos tor a possible college life
Lost&Found 

p.m. Need--2 BB tickets GA to DePaul, 2-3 "Midpoint" ~hould contact Kathy .
GA to Marquette Call Judy 7526. 
Charles "Hollywood" Dyer for UMOC Connelly at 7471 or John McGrath atOST: HP25 Calculator in either room USED books at discount prices. The 
Chucky is Yucky 3106.
303 or auditorium of Engineering 

latest in new books. Frequent sales on Needed: 2 GA tix for DePaul. Call Mat Blc g. on Thursday, Feb. 7 morning. new and used titles in categories from 233-6090. 
Black Slacks--Follow the Yellow Brick Road to the
Pie a·;e call Bob at 1166 or return my philosophy to popular fiction. Visit The past four or five months have Commonwealth.

calcLiator to Dean's office or to lost Pandora's Books, 937 S. Bend Ave., FREE CASH I desperately need 2 (just been like four or five years-almost.

and f, •und. 

between Eddy and Notre Dame. 2) tickets to the Marquette game. 
Thanks for giving me such a hard time. DO YOU EVER WONDER HOW TD
Money no object call Maureen at 8027. 
Here's to more rum'n cokes, and lots PUT ALL THE PARTS OF YOUR LIFELost My Ciasse~. Highly attractive 
of Kahlua. TOGETWR? Come to the two-part
SMC sophomore cannot see herself in Will Pay Mega$$$ for 2 GA Marquette Love and Kisses Life Plannmg Workshop Feb. 20 and
Wanted
the mirror. They had a gold !ream and tickets. Karen 6798. 

Skipper Feb. 27 from 8-9:30 p.m. in the Reginasquare tinted lenses. If you have seen Sou.th Lounge. Sign up in Regina Hall
them. please call Colleen at 4-1-4374, Need ride to 'alifornia after finals, will Need tickets to the Marquette game on CULP CULT UNITE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! or the Career Development, SMC.
Sne·ll make it worth your while. share 111 co~ •. etc. Call Clark/Jim the 24th of February. Mike 8501. 8469. 
The WSN D "A~tion Jock" comes your Read this little story 'bout
LOST: Blue Backpack. Missing from DAYTON GAS 
way tonight at ten, 64 on your AM dial. a boy from Pakistan
North Dtning Hall (lunch) Feb. 4th. Need ride to Hamilton-Cincinnati area. DAYTON GAS came to Notre Dame1 F 1 anticl! Need Contents II Call 288­
Weekend of Feb. 23. Call Abbie DAYTON GAS 
To Bobby B. of CSC you can't be beat trading snow for all that sand 
1 

5465. No questions asked. 41-5267. DAYTON GAS 
from A to Z. went back one dayDAYTON GAS 
A friend like you is hard to find ... and to his local bank
I 
Lost Black wallet. Lost near Rock. 

Desperately need 1 GA tix and 1 I need'em--ivlick 8212 
we love you dearly. when around the corner
1 Reward. Call Bill 6756 student tix for DePaul. Money is Happy Valentine's Day came a bunch of Rus;ian Tanksdefinitely NO OBJECT!!!call Jennifer Need 3 Marquette GA tix ANY price Ann, Tom L. Peggy F. Jim W., Mary, 73-mmtype. that is.
LOST. Gold watch on North Quad Fri., NOW at 4980. Call Dave 1133. 
Sis, Billy, C.L. and Sue. squashed students.
· Feb. B. If found call Finns 8621. 

Warm water port.
Reward. Need ride lor a friend from Miami of Helpl My brother is leading a band of Need ride to Honolulu for weekend, Well, the first thing he knewOhio to Notre Dame any weekend warriors down for the Marquette will share driving and expenses. that 'ol Paki took to runnin'LOST RING: If you found NO gin possible. Please call Beth 41-5710 if game. I need many tickets. call 8300. 
call the Mad Hawaiian 1386 kin folk said Paki.
Hayes-Healy please see Lost and you know of anyone visiting soon. 
Ruissi~:::, hate thP
Found or me at 005 Fisher, 283-1877. Big Bucks: 2 or 4 DePaul tickets. Call 
Dear Mom, Dad, Connie, Karen, Mary U. of California 1s tr ._ .ace
Need a ride hume to Chicago for one. (312)372-7399 Collect. 9-5, ask tor Alex Agnes, Jeff, Dan. Mary, Tom, Mark, you oughla be
lost $$$$$offered for return of books Can leave this Friday afternoon. Call Deviance. 
Lisa, Kathleen. Dav. Mike, Diana, so he got an application
in hlue backpack taken from bookstore Janed at 7933. 
Belinda, Mona, Tina, Sue and every­and went o~ old U.C. (L.A., that is!)
~ r-1u Lisa 1330. Need 2 GA Marquette tix for Jr. 
one else who made my 20th so very
NEEDED: Essentials of Managerial Parents Weekend. Good $$. call 8437 ---------------­
special. That's terrible, Steve 111 The Gulp Cult~C: Wire-rimmed glasses in a Finance by Weston and Brigham. Call or 8436. Also need may DePaul GA Thank you for everything, and I love will be insulted.
brown cdse. on 2-8-80. probably near 3226. 88888888888888888888888888888888 ·.
you all,
O'Shdg. If found. please call Steve 

Desperately Need 3 Marquette Tix 
Diane--------------
Striegel. 8986. 

Need ride to Champaign, Ill weekend Please call Bill at 8288 of 2-22. Call Chris 8328. 
Mom and Dad HAPPY ANNIVER,
FOUND: Portable Pioneer Cassette RICH GRADUATE '61 needs DePaul Travel to The Commonwealth. It
SARY!!!!! Love and Kisses,
tape player found at ND ice rink on LEAD VOCALIST-For campus rock Tix [6] Call 272-5744. will Improve your imagination.
Roberta

Wednesday, Feb. 6th at about 11:00 group. Guitar ability preferred but not ---------------­
~~P~-:m~-~C~ai~IT~i~m~a~t~23:2~-7~3~14~t~o~id:e~n~tif~y~.----~r~eq~u:ir:ed~-~3:46~3~---------~~-~------------------------------------------------~-------~.------------------------.-.1 
page IS 
More Valentine's Dax.Personals! 

Jimmy Lloyd,
Happy Valentine's Day to the cutest, nuttiest, nicest guy In the whole world. I love you. 
Your AngelaP.S. Will you marry me? 
Clark Kent, 
Don't bother to wear your glassesthis weekend. You couldn't keep them on If you •tried. Happy Valentine's Day. 
Love, Lois Lane 
Eileen Angela Walker, There's time enough for life Time enough for love, Share some time with me, Share some love with rne, On August 9 
Jimmy 
Angela Walker, 
I felt the point of Cupid':; arrow pierce my soul; out there was no pain;only heartacho when we are apart.
Love, Jimmy 
To all R.L.P. 's, Be my Valentine Jack's Solitude 
Griff, 
HAPPY Vt,LENTINE S DAY. I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO CELE· BRATING WITH JULIO'S AI~D MILLER IN BOTTLES. NOW CAN I SEE THE RED FOOTIE PAJAMAS? 
LOVE, JIM 
LARRY with the laughing eyes Is the best thing since sliced bread. 
Ana Villamil, I'm someone you've met before, out haven't acknowledged smce then. So, I'II wish you a HappyValentine's Day and hopefully con· verse with you real soon. A veryloquacious person. 
Terri, Happy Valentine's Day. I love you very much. Jack 
s~eph, (
Thanks again for a fantastic week· end. Happy Valentine's Day, . NJM 
P.s .. You can wear me out again anyttme. 
Ann. Hope you are feeling better now. Have a Happy Valentine's Day,Herbie 
• Ode to aSexy Eye-tallanI want to tell the World how 1 feel about you;
How you make me feel happy and whole··it's true! 
For two and a half years we've been together; But something deep Inside says this Is Forev@r~ ..•. 
When you look at me, my face does shine. Mary, I love you--Be my Valentine. Hank 
Ntcole Candiano, Happiest of V·dayHess than 125 days to go! Live it up. Paula 
911 Club-­
We miss your faces' When are you gotng to throw a party in our honor? Happy Valentine's Day Sweeties! 
Love, Crasher and Blitzed 
To Mary Beth Butler-­To see her is to know her, To know her is to love her, To love her is to touch her. To touch her is to "buy her baby 
new shoes'" 
Happy Valentine's Day!! 
Steve Nagorzanski, . 
Here is your second personal··don't miss this one too! Thanks for those baby-blues. and for keeping the all the ND-SMC women happy!
Yours in Christ, Kissy Lips 
Cutest, I love you! Have a Happy Valen· tine's Day! Love, Your Alumni Friend PS. Scivvy Nivvy 
Erin and Bill! Happy Valentine's Day to two wonderful people, Love. Megan 
Dear Louee, To put it simply, Happy Valentine's 
Day! Love, Mark 
Have a gaoa day Ceil. 
Dear Karen M., 
To a terrific girl, from a guy who Is absolutely crazy about her··HappyValentine's Day. 
Love, Chris N. 
Kate, You have beautiful eyes and more! oe my /a/entine? KC 
Dearest Duff, Hackman, Mary Laura 
Jamie. ' ' Happy valentine's Day! Love, Beth 
V2 Floor Dillon Boys,
Happy Valentine's Day! Love, Helen 
Kevin, Joe. Dan, J.P., Mark, Scooter Je vous aime! ' Beth ..., Peggy Blum, 
Happy Valentine'll Day from such a tool as you've never known. You're super. 
Love, Harry 
Peter, 
Happy Valentine's Day,love. I wish we could be together; next February14th for sure. I'm your Valentine forever and 2 monthsI 
Love, Erin 
----:--------~--­
R.C.B. .. 
"Here's looking at you, kid." The flick was great. You were better (oh,Security Lady··you can bug J & E, now. Welcome to the second sem· ester!) 
Greta 
P.S. I'm having a crisis of faith. Do you tutor? 
P.P.S. Happy Valentine's Day!! 
JG, 
What does BCA stand for again?Basic Cosmo Analysls?? Happyreading! And have agood Valentine's Day too! 
Love, CJ 
Hugs and Kisses to Oregon's own Morrie Conway and John Mangan. Happy Valentine's Day to the Best of the West. 
Love, the little one 
Happy Valentine's Day Chris Wuertz. Will you be my Valentine? · Love, Carol 
To the girl who Interviewed with Haggar Slacks because··".She likes working In men's pants"··you are the love of my life. 
"The Red Rose" 
To You, 
Sometimes things happen; this happened real fast. It's ended for the best; I really hope that It lasts! You've given me, the love that I need. 
From Me 
To Chris: All my love always, Tom Happy Valentine's Day
.---------------­
Mike, Happy Valentine's Day!Wile E. Coyote & Patti 
791·682758, Careful when you climb up, I may never let you down, CHVP 
Michael·· Remeber this day last year·· confunghl?? 
Katie Felice giorno dl San Valentine, Mad Dog. 
To the 6-man comedy team of 2C Grace. You're the best! Happy Valentine's Day! 
Love, Cary 
Peg, Kathy, Anne, Marybeth, and 717 St. Louis, Happy Valentine's Day, MB 
Hugs and Kisses to MS. Sheep, Heidi, Gallo, RBB, ML, Rohrback, SAFB, Jill Anne, Elaine, Pat, Jo, Bob B., Phil, Duane, KD & Co., Mello Ed, Rick, Judy Curlee, Lisa, Greg the Hedge,MOM, Dl & MLB, Dick, KC, Jimbo, Brad the Veg, 
on Valentine's Day, Love, MB 
MPB, • Happy Valentine's Day! All my love, 
a 
To my Pal: 
(Hope you read this babe publica·tlon'a personals today, at least.)HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY, PAULl 
Sheila 
Cheryl, 
Happy Valentine's Day to the great· est room mate that I could ever ask for. Love, Marianne 
Kevin, 
Happy Valentine's Day to my fav· orlte Saint. I hope that today Is filled with lots of "real smiles." 
Love, Marianne 
Happy Valentine's Day Zlggl. Love, Debbl 
Kevin, Potatoes have eyes,Rhinos have horns, 
· And you have me! Happy Valentine's Day with love. BXO, Lisa 
Jevon, Kom·Pie! Happy Valentine's Day.Thanks for the wine. 
"  Gre en· Love, jeans  
Lisa: Even though I'm  never  In  our  

room··! couldn't ask for abetter friend or roommate. Happy Valentine's Day, Love, Your Part·Time Roommate 

Anne IJ1-­Happy Valentine's Day and wei· come to Lyons! 
Anne IJ2  
Cori-­ 
Cool  out  and  have  an  Intense  
Valentine's Day!  Anne  
Sterls:  

Shall we head for a Goose's table and put on a special Valentine's Day performance? 
Flnker 
To the most handsome One·L ever: 
I can't resist much longer. Please ask me out so I can seduce you. (CanLawyers really do it without their briefs?) 
A One·L Admirer 
Julie, Thanks for the greatest year of my li.fe. Happy Valentine's Day.Love, Tom 
Cell, Happy Valentine's Day, girl! ' .ove you. Love, rom 
E, 
Happy Valentine's Day. Thanks for a great vacation. I. L. Y. L 
Tim T. 
I love you. I need you. I desire you.Why don't you and your coach call me again? 
l'l.R. 

Kate, 
Even though you're always fanning me, I think you re fantastic. Thanks for being so special. 
Love, Kevin 

Julia M.T., 
Happy Valentlne's··j'espere tu almes votre personnel; pardon mon amour et m'amltle. 
Nouvelle Vagt•e 

BABE, 
Roses are red, violets are blue, I want to neck on Valentine's Day, How about you?!? 
Love, 
Lace 

P.S. Be My Valentine 
Bill "Alias Mac the Knife": HappyValentine's Day to the man In my life. Thanks for three years of love and memories. 
Always, 
The·g lrl·who·can 't·play·
board·games. 

Frank Frazel, The time has come. Tonlte at 6:30. I'll be waiting! Your S.S. 
K.B., Du, du llegst mlr lm Herzenl? Anyway, Happy Valen•ine's Day! Milt 
Girls·· 
Shed extra pounds fast. Lost up to 3,000 calories In one evening. Involve yourself In this highly fulfilling and enjoY.able experience. Happy Valen· tines Day. Call 3069. 
----~----------­
Susie, Erin, Patsy, and Llsa··the best bunch of roomies any crazed person ever had! Ha;:Jpy Valentine's Day! 
Sor:n, 
You build a great "getaway to the we~a." Pure winners and so Is our boo h! Thanks for everything!
Happy Valentine's Day.
Regina 

Regina Hall Council, · 
Enjoying your week without a meeting? Hope your Valentine's Day is happy .. 
Thanks for EVERYTHING, 
Betsy 

Regina Five ... 
Popcorn and midnites wouldn't be the same without you! Happy Valen· tine's Day! 
Love, 
Betsy 

C.K. I'd have you anytime,ASchoolboy in Disgrace• 
TJ•• 
Stop by sometime and I'll stop calling you "pseudo." HVD··ML 
Triz-­At least you have someone to blow trash to on Valentine's Day. 
o.x.o.x. 
Mac 

---------------~ 
Happy Heans Day to Apt. 207 
Happy Valentine's Day to Charlie, Chuck, Mon. Jeff & Co. (When are you coming to claim your HamburgerHelper?) 
HaiJPY Valent.ne's Day to the terrific guys from 823! 
Bean. I love you. Til next March. Always,Little Bean 
MUGS. I didn't forget this time. HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY!!! Orti 
Nymph,Your body just won't quit! Happy Valentine's Day John 
GIRLZ, The best of the Red Hot Lovers! Happy Valentine's Day! Love, THe BOYZ 
Dearest James M. & T.!.s., 
I love you guys! Good luck with Mill! I'll bring back some Canadian beer for ya! 
E.A.P. 

Gib, 
Happy Valentine's Day to our newest star. It's "mutual" we're sure. We Jove you. 
N..ncy &MB 

Gib. 
Well. if you saw that one, you'll see 
this one too--Happy Valentine's Day to 
the best "fellow" we know!! 
Love, 
3·N Walsh 

Paddlngton II, Happy Valentine's Day to my favor· lte twin. Love, Paddlngton 1 
J.E.F ., 
Happy Valentine's Day. Love, M.B. 
David, 
I looked for you so long I'm glad 1 finally found you ...and you lound me ...and we found "us." 
Angel Dust 
To: "My Blonde Surprise"Don't worry about May. I love you anyway--my way! • Summertime Fling 
Observerltes: I LOVE VA, MOM 
MOM. It's mutual! Observerltes 
Dome, Student U~ion, and Student Government, Student Activities and Huddle Staffs·· 
I love you, too. 

MOM 
To the Holy Queens of Holy Cross House, Be my Valentine. . The Original King of Echo 
~---------------
Liebling!
Happy Valenttne's Day! Thanks for roses, wine and wonderful time. Sorryabout the tears' Here's wishing us many more years! 
Spatz 
To four valentines named Fran, PattySnitz, and Sophia: Thanks for putting up wtth me. Have ahappy Valentine's Day and a FUN Friday! 
Beth, 
. A VERY IMPORTANT DAY: (Myftrst personal and 1don't even have a spiffy code name). Happy Valentine's Day! (tf you've not gone yet) Check me out when you get back. OK? 
Love, 
Mark 
Dear Steve, Love you a lot? You bet! Happy· Valentine's Day. Love Always,Kathy 
------------~--­
I would like to personally wish the real 
sweeties In 398 LeMans a very happy
valentine's day. 

Your Secret Admirer 
Dearest Kathy.

How do I love thee, let me count the 
ways! 1, 2, 3, ..1000, 1001, 1002... 
Happy Valentine's Day. 

Love, 
Kevin from the South Side of Chicago 
To Mom and the Girls, 

May your hearts be filled with 
warmth for Valentine's Day even if It Is 
from the "fire" in the hot chocolate! 

Love, 
Dad and Sonny 
Rene. 
Roses are red. 
Violets are blue. 
I knew it's stuptd. 
Bu: it's the best 1 can do. 
Happy Valentines Day. 

DMM 
Mark Rust·· Next time you want to go to a format, let me know! Electric Koolald 
My friend·· Je t'alme . Te amo Always and forever, Your friend 
Whether you live off-campus or on. a 
V!lry special Happy Valentine's Day 
wish to all the special females I have 
the prlveledge of Knowing,

Love and Kisses. 
Ryan ''no doz'' Ver Berkmoes 
To all the gorgeous foxes on Regina 2 north, Happy Valentine's Day! You're all sweethearts! Love, L.. J., and K.
________.....________ 

Dear Murph·the·Surl, Tex. Joey,
Charlie. Spike, Scan·the·Man, Sneaky
Pete, Special K and the Miss!ng Link: 
Free Brian Daily lor Valentine's 
DAy! YSTM! (Can't you take a 
joke?) 

• Love, the Back·Row Bombers. 
To my favorite RA In BP, Friends like rou are what Valen· 
tine's Day Is al about.  Have a great  
one.  
Your Favorite Tree  

........----~---------;---------­
S]2orts 
Begin road tour 

Irish to battle Ratns 
by Mark Perry Sports Editor 
r~nding their five-game ho~e­srand on an inspiring note wrth the1r e"~:inng win over San Francisco, the Notre Dame b,bkerhall team takes to the ;oad fur three straight games. l'llt' Irish begin their eastern ..,wmg t1>nighr with a contest ag:t111sr the Fordham Rams at ~~ew Y11rk· s Madison Square 
(j:l rden. 
!'i/>off i,., -..:heduled for 9 p.m., an, the g.une will be broadcast l,•ca!h ,. W:\DU-TV (Ch. 16). \\'S:\[).\\1 ({•..JO) will also be ,,,rrv,·•g rhe game live, with i>.nd S.audcr and Frank LaGrot­L• d11ing the play-_by-play. 
1'11t· Rams come mto the game , , rhe midst of a roller coaster ,,.a..,Pn, w:rh their record stand­
'''g ar 9-13 following Tuesday 111ghr ·..,los;; to Seton H~ll._ He~d , •>at h Tom Penders IS tn hts ..,,·nHld year at fordham. 
·t:ordham is having some pn>hiems rhis year.·· says Irish tllat h Digger Phelps, who 
.t•>ached the Rams to a 26-3 n·u>rd and a rhtrd-place finish in the NCAA East regional in l '}70-71, his only head coaching experience before commg to Not rc Dame. "But I thmk they have shown improvements over last season. 
'They are playing a lot of young people, so they should get better with experience. 
They will be up for us, I'm sure, but playing in the Garden is a big thrill for our players, so we'll be ready." 
The Rams are led in scoring by Bill Calhoun, a 6-6 forward, one of two Fordham players averag­ing in double figures. Calhoun, who stands at 11.0 ppg also ranks second in rebounding with a 6.6 average. His front­court mate, Edward Bona ranks first in that category with a 7.8 average. The 6-8 freshman, a native of Sudan. averages 10.3 pomts per contest. 
Occupying the center spot ts another Sudan nartive, Dud (pronounced "Dude") Tonga!, a seven-foot sophomore. Ton­gal, a cousin of Bona's, has averaged 5.6 points and 4.6 rebounds per game this season. 

David Maxwell (7. 1 ppg) and Mark Murphy (6.9 ppg) man the backcourr spots for the Rams. Maxwell, a 6-1 fresh­man, leads the Rams in assists wirh 59. 
rtw Irish own an 8-3 advan­tage in the series, and have won the last six games,-including last year's 85-53 win at the ACC. 
Notre Dame will be spending the weekend on the east coast, as they face South Carolina on Saturday in a regionally-televis­ed contest. After another away game ar Xavier, the Irish return home ro take on Marquette at the ACC on February 24. DiggerPhelps 


NeUJ York:~pple' of Digger's eye 


NEW YORK-The Big Apple. . 
Now there's an over-used handle. But It fits this city as well as all those bathing suits cling to Christie Brinkley. 
Well. .. maybe not that well. . 
But you can't deny its excitement. Things happen here. The home of the Yankees, and Broadway, and the only city council that manages to go bankrupt once a year. Howard Cosell was born here; Joe Namath got his first job here; Billy Martin lost his ~ast one her~: 
Every night Sandy Duncan slips on her strtngs and flys rhrought the balconies of a midtown theater dressed as Peter Pan. And people believe it-at least New Yorkers do. Well, mavbe they don' r really. Maybe it just helps them forget about their council, Billy Martin, and Cosell. 
New York, New York. it's a hell ofa town! The Bronx is up and the Bowery's down. The streetcars run throuf.!h a hole in the ground. New York, New York! 
And 1t figures that God would make Digger 
Frank LaGrotta 
Sports Writer 

Phelps a l'jew Yorker. He wasn't exactly born in the city-in fact he was reared about 60 miles away in a small hamlet called Beacon. But that's merely a point of logistics. Spend five minutes with Digger and you know he's a city boy at heart. 
"I just love New York," he shrugs through a swanky fur coat that bears both his monogram and that of one of the most exclusive furriers in-where else-New York. "There's just something about·this place that gets me excited. And I think it's good for us to play h~~e on~e :a year, because, hey, if you want pubhctty th1s IS the place to come.'' . 
And when Digger comes here he does. It up right. Every paper in town dispatches a wnter to 
[cuntimNd on pagel3] 

Olympics open minus Taiwan 
Li\KI·: PLACID. N.Y. (AP) · l'he Winter Olympics opened o~'ticially last night with a "Jll'CI<tLUlar ceremony in ~his ..,,enic Adirondack mountam v.dley wirh the Taiwan ream p..tcking to go home and the -.kiers and speed skaters pre­paring for glamor events Thurs­Jay. ·1-'eter Mueller of Switzerland 
and Ken Kead of Canada finish­ed workouts last night and prepared for the downhill race on Whiteface Mountain today. The American speed-skating t<'am, which is expected to win ·a flock of gold medals was expected to enter Beth Heiden and Leah Poulos-Mueller in the 

l. )00-meter race Thursday. 
Bill Koch, the cross-country skier who surprised the_ ski fraternity by winning a sdver medal at the lnnsbruck Olym­pics four years ago, had a good 
XillWINTER 
o-YMPIC GAMES 
:~oo~) 
LAKE PLACID.~ .Y 

chance today in the 30-kilome­rer cross-country race on Mr. Van Hoevenberg. 
The Taiwan delegation asked the International Olympic Com­mittee to be excused from the Games Wednesday after it lost a court battle over its flag, name and anthem. Meanwhile, athletes from the People's Re­public of China marched in the opening ceremonies. and pre­pared for their first Olympic competition since the commu­nist revolution in 1949. 

In order ro convince Mainland China to return to the Olym­pics, the International Olympic Committee adopted a rule re­quiring the Tai'Yan athletes to use an Olympic committee flag, call themselves the China-Tai­
[continued on page 14] 

Thursday, February 14, 1980 -page 16 
Officials to meet this weekend to decide ND hockey's future · · 
Brian Beglane 


The latest word from the grapevine--a very reliable one, mind you, from student government--tells us one of Fr. Joyce's reasons behind the recent moratorium on athletic scholarships was to "get" the hockey program at Notr~ Dame. . 
Earlier sources along the same !me stated that Fr. Joyce said ''One of the worst decisions in my tenure at Notre Dame was to create a hockey program. '' 
There is no doubt in my mind the statements are accurate and they are attributed to the right person. In time, perhaps, Fr .Joyce will state publicly his all-too-apparent disapproval of the hockey 
program. . . , 
Last night in Grace Hall, someone from the · Umverstty s administration finally gave some direct answers concerning Notre Dame's view of the hockey team. Fr. Theodore ~t;sbursh, 
C. S.C., President of the Notre Dam~, gave the admmistratwn 'view--that the hockey program has faded. 
"Twelve years ago, when the program was being started," said Hesburgh, "we knew we would have a great deal of !11oney to put into hockey. We felt in time it would be self supportive and could perhaps bring in money for the Uni_versity.. . . 
"The decision was maae in goodwdl, and It was a good deciSIOn at the time. I have to say it just has not worked." 
Fr. Hesburgh had no answer to the question of what is going to happen to the hockey program. He just st~ted ~e hoped ev~ryol?e would know after he and Fr. Joyce meet wnh umverslty officials 1n Key Biscayne, Fla. 
"I don't know what we are going to do,_" he said. "Ther~ are alot of things to be considered. One, there IS alot of money mv?h:ed. Two, where are we going to get tha~ money from? Three, 1t iS a matter of principle--we have to be f~1r to all. Fourth, we must try 
and  cause  the  least  dislocation  tor  the  greatest  number  of  
students."  
The  University's  greatest  enemy  right  now  is  the  federal  

government. Uncle Sam does n_or care, .about the University's position that it must spend what It does on football and baskerb3:ll to bring in enough revenue to support the rest of the athletic department. All the government sees is an inbalance in athletic budgets. . . 
Notre Dame waited too long to try and correct th1s mbalance.. All of a sudden the athletic department is no longer_ self supportive, and now the administration, in order not to dip mto any pockets besides those of athletics, has finally decided to do something about it. I can't help but think Title. I~, inflation an_d the lack of sizable revenue from a bf)wl bame th1s year contnbuted to the decision. That is not to 'blame. the football team in any way--they are entitled to a Christmas home--but it appears certain severe cutbacks are on the way, and the hockey progran: will suffer for it. And that is just not fair. The lack of understandmg for the hoc~ey program at Notre Dame ne':'erceases to ~maze m_e, not compassiOn mind you, but understandmg the workmg~ o_f n and the league 
calledthe Western Collegiate Hockey A~soc1at1on. 
Noone with some knowledge.Jf marketmg hockey appeared to be present when the ice arena at the ACC was built. More rh.an half the seats in the arena are portable metal bleachers wh1ch are extremely uncomfortable. The rest are permanent bleacher-type seats which are just as uncomfortablt;. 
The option remained for more seating when the program w~s started, but just where in heaven would they have put the!l1~Asn IS right now , about 700 seats do not offer an unobstructed yi~w ofthe ice. What fan wants to be treated hke a second class cltlzen?. 
With ticket prices ranging from the bottom figure of. $_1 1f a student buys a season ticket to $3 for adult~, the possi~lity _of becoming a lucrative operation just does not ex1st. The Umv~rslty narrow -mindedly neglected to offer students. the opportumty to purchase tickets over.rhe summer as was done mt~epast.fhts killed student tickets from 1,000 to under 500. 
What many people do not realize is that hockey ca~not, on a similiar scale be as lucrative as football because of 1ts nature. Football and basketball get big bucks for appearan~es on network television the football replay network the Insh basketball nerwork produced by Metro Commumc~tior:s and even Mutual radio. Revenue of this type speels a big difference between a program being lucrative or losing money. 
The hockey team has had rwo home games. televised t~is year, but you can compare the broadcast fees It_ re~e1_ved to a national TV appearance by football or basketball. It ~~ ~!d!c~lous. Fr Hesburgh stated last night the adm1msrrauon had hoped the h~ckey program would bring in money for the school_" in time." The very reasoning behind the creation of the sport 1s not clear. Was itcrearedas a means ofmaking money or as a hockey program on its own merits? The former appears to be true, since the dollar is the bottom line now. 
A lot of people could not believe the Irish got swept away by Minnesota-Duluth last weekend at the ACC. These are the people who have no conception of what the WCHA is like. .This analogy might help. Have the basketball schedule 70 percent of its games from the top 20. Or, the s~me for the football team. That is what playing in the WCHA is hke. . 
There are I 0 teams in the league and seven m the Central Collegiate Hockey Association. They comprise all the Division I 
[continued on page 131 

..... 






