.r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Irish Extra-Pages 7-10
' ' ' 

-----------·----------­

VOL.XV, N0.32 
an tndt'pt"ndem ~tudem newspape-r st'rving noue dame-and sauu mary· s FRIDAY, OCIOBER 3.1980 


by Kelli Flint Senior Staff Reporter 
A new directive to all Catholic 

institutions within the Ft. 
Wayne-South Bend diocese may 
affect the future ofMardi Gras at 
Notre Dame, according to 
Student Activities Director 
James McDonnell. 
Bishop William McManus in­

itiated the directive, which pro­
hibits gambling for charitable 
causes. 
According to McDonnell, the 

directive results from an incident 
that took place in Ft. Wayne last 
year. 
"Last year, a Catholic parish in 

Ft. Wayne held a fund-raiser," 
McDonnell said. "A Ft. Wayne 
newspaper photographed the 
gambling that took place at the 
fundraiser and published an 
article which questioned 
whether the charitable end was 
justified by means of gambling. 
"As a result of this article, 

Bishop McManus initiated a new 
directive to all Catholic institu­
tions and organizations within 
the dioc,:ese. The directive pro-
Riehle 
proposes change 
By Sue Kelleber 

Student Body President Paul Riehle discussed changes for Notre Dame's student govern­ment constitution last night at a student fqrum, attended by only three students, in Cavanaugh Hall. 
hibits gambling for charitable ..:auses. This includes raffles, bingo, cards, dice and wheels." 
McDonnell contacted diocean officials on the new policy. "Officials say that the policy is not a statement that the gamb­ling activities are immoral," he said. "It merely indicates that officials in the diocese feel com­pelled to adhere to Indiana law, which prohibits gambling." 
"l spoke to Fr. Terry Place, Chancellor of the Ft. Wayne­South Bend diocese," McDonnell said. "Place stated that parishes in the diocese have been asked to submit a timetable indicating when they will begin adhering to the new directive." 
McDonnell added that since financial arrangements have al­ready been made, this year's Mardi Gras will not be affected by the new directive. 
"The Mardi Gras committee has already made financial com­mitments to several halls, groups, and organizations," McDonnell said." We feel that we are in the same situation as those r .1rishes that have budgeted their mcome. 
"As far as we know, the Mardi Gras for 1981 will take place. If state law changes, future Mardi Gras will be exactly as we know them. I don't know what the prospects of state law changing are. 
"Ifstate law doesn't change, we have up to one year ~o come up with creative, imaginative acti­vities to replace the present activities involved with the eight day celebration." 
McDonnell noted that he will comply with the directive. "I'm extremely confident that the students will understand that we must comply with the directive. I 


Reagan wins mock election,. ·Anderson whips Carter 2 to 1 
By Tom jackma11 votes) to Bayh's 40 percent (109 the 1075 votes cast, and 125 Executive News Edrtor votes), and that clearly made the (44.5 percent) (1t' the 281 Indiana Republican presidential difference. Bayh's national no­votes. Anderson, whose strength nominee Ronald Reagan garner­toriety undoubtedly helped him appeared to be on the Notre ed 45.5 percent of the vote in among non-Indiana voters, and Dame campus, was swept away yesterday's Observer Mock by the same token, perhaps hurt by a strong Reagan majority at Political Election, leading a clean him among the Hoosiers. He is Saint Mary's. Early returns, sweep for the GOP in all four running for an unprecedented which did not include Saint races on the ballot. Independent fourth term. Mary's, had the former candidate Rep. John Anderson Former California Governor Republican within several vott:s 
finished second in the survey of Reagan brought in similar pro­of Reagan, but that marginNotre Dame and Saint Mary's portions from both voting 
[continued on pag.: 4]
students, with 34.5 percent of blocks, winning a total of489 of the vote, and President Jimmy Carter came in third with 15.6 percent. 

OBSERVER MOCK ELECTION OUTCOME In the race for Indiana's US· Senate seat, incumbent Birch 
*PRESIDENT *
Bayh was defeated by Rep. Dan Quayle, 53.3 percent to 46.7 

(I) Anderson 34.5% percent. Another incumbent, Third District Rep. John 
(D) Carter 15.6% Brademas, also was beaten soundly, by newcomer John 
(R) Reagan 45.5% Hiler, 57.3 percent to 42.7 per cent. Lt. Gov. Bob Orr scored 
Other-4.4% 
the biggest margin of victory for the Republicans, thumping 

* U.S.SENATB * 
Democrat John Hillenbrand 

(D) Bayh 46.7% with American Party candidate Cletus Artist picking up the 
57.7 percent to 38.8 percent, 

(R) Quayle 53.3% remaining 3.5 percent. A total of 1075 student-s from both campuses participated in 
*U.S.HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES*
the election, 281 ofwhich claim­ed on the ballot that they were 

(D) Brademas 42.7%
registered to vote in this state. Indiana voters, ho,wever, varied 

(R) Hiler 57.3%
only slightly from the prefer­ences of their heterogeneous peers. 
Indiana voters did make a difference in one contest 

*INDIANA GOVERNOR * 
though-the Senate race be­tween Bayh and Quayle. Of the 
(A) Artist 935 votes cast in this race, 665 non-Indiana voters gave Quayle 

(D) Hillenbrand 38.3% only a nine vote margin. But among Indiana balloters, Quayle 
(R) Orr 57.7% polled nearly 60 percent (161 
Mayor Parent reacts to crime, 

allocates funds for more protection 
By Louis Breaux ditions in the nation and in South Bend, tht: crime rate has been rising. To compound the problem the police dertmeiit
In response to the worsening crime situation in has been operating with 52 fewer men than it haJthe northeast part of South Bend, Mayor Roger three years ago. The economic situation has also Parent has allocated an additional $30,000 to the caused the cutbacks in the police roster.

police department for overtime work. 

The police department also plans to add 11 newThe additional funds will allow six to seven more recruits to the existing squad, but they will not bepolice officers on overtime duty. That constitutes joining the force until they finish training in twelve approximately 555 more man hours in a two week 
months. 
pay period for about three months. 

The police department has been justifiablyThe increase has come in light of the many reluctant in revealiQ.g the plans they have devised reports of burglary and assault that have alarmed in dealing with the off-campus crime, but theythe Notre Dame community. Off-campus stu­have said that the plans include directed patrolsdents were particularly hard hit and had organized and continuing decoy efforts.
themselves, calling for more protection from the The directed patrols differ from regular beatcity. 

patrols in that the officer will patrol a specific area _ Assistant Chief of Police Charles Hurley com­and will concern himself with a specific assign­mented, "The crime rate in South Bend is no 
ment.
worse than anywhere else. The recent crimes have been more spectacular because they are consider­

City officials have emphasized that while the concentration of extra protection will be in theed the 'high fear' type." 
The high fear type of crime is-described as one northeast part of town, crime is a city-wide where an individual is confronted face-to-face by problem and the plans include the entire city. another individual who possesses some type of The additional funds came from federal revenue 
The immediate goal of am also confident that students weapon. sharing funds turned over by the Century Center Riehle's proposals is the forma-will come up with new fund­The mayor has cited three reasons for the need board of managers in response to a request by the raising ideas for Mardi Gras," he. of an increase in the overtime patrol budget. He mayor. The funds will be added to S120,000 
[continued on page 4] concluded. said that due to the worsening economic con-already budgeted for overtime work. 


News in brief 
Fr. Toohey, the director of Campus Ministry remains in "fair" condttion at St. Joseph's Hospital, according to hospital spokesmen. The priest fell unconscious during a staff meeting Wednesday morning. As of yesterday, doctors were performing tests in order to determine the cause of Toohey's collapse. Tumors and menginitis have thus far been ruled out, but hospital spokesman declined to release any details on the priest's condition. 
Voicing severe criticismofBillyCarter for his Libyan dealings, Senate investigators said President Carter used poor judgment in asking his brother to use his influence in the effort to free American hostages from Iran. But the Senate panel charged with investigating Billy Carter's connections with the Libyan governmentconcluded that he got no kid-gloves treatment from the Justice Department because he is President Carter's brother. In a report approved by voice vote with no dissents, the special Judiciary subcommittee decided the president was "ill advised" to use his boisterous younger brother as a go-between with Libyan officials in an effort to obtain Arab help to free the U.S. hostages in Iran and was critical of some of the president's top aides. AP 

th~D~!!fi!~~~u~!f!iJgep~nd¥ofm~~~!?D~~~
professor will be speaking at Saint Mary's on Monday as part of the College's "Political Week" The speech is scheduled for 
4:30 p.m. in the Lit~e Theatre. Brademas, who is serving his 11th term in the House, is running for re-election against 27­year-old Republican John Hiler. The congressman has become a noteworthy member of Congress by his ability to win consistently in a highly conservative district. Two weeks ago, Brademas' bill advocating increased federal aid-in the form of loans and grants-for higher education passed the House. The bill, once rejected by the Senate for its cost, was modified and then sent to the Senate for-consideration. Ifpassed, the bill will extend existing federal aid programs for an additional five years-and also increase the amount of educational a~d granted. -The Observer 
Treasury Secretary G. William 
Millersigned a federal loan guarantee yesterday for $300 million worth ofbonds to be issued by New York City: TheNew York Financial Control Board planned to meet later in the day to consider final approval for the bonds, which will be sold to New York City and New Yorkstate pension funds. The money will be used to repair roads and bridges and for other contruction projects in the city. Millesaid in a written statement that New York "has consistently met every condition of eligibility set forth" in the law under which Congress authorized federal guarantees for the financially strapped city. 
M1C. hae1"0ZZ1e. " Myers, convicted of accepting a bribe in the FBI's Abscam undercover operation, was expelled from the House of Representatives yesterday­
the first congressman ousted by his colleagues since the outbreak of the Civil War. The vote to remove Myers was 3 76­30, easily more than the two-thirds majority required. "I know now what it feels like to sit on death row. As you go to the voting machine, keep in mind when you hit that button, that it will have the same effect ofhitting the button ifl were strapped into an electric chair," Myers told House members prior to the vote. Myers, calling the assembled House members "a lynching mob," also said his expulsion was being considered too soon after his conviction in August. AP 
Th~ drug, Resperine widely used to control.htf?h bl.ood pressure, causes cancer 'in animals and may po~. ~ sumlar nsk to humans, according t-o the National Cancer Institute.ll'he tests, in which animals were fed the drug for 103 we~ks, do not prove that reserpine causes cancer in humans. But they indicate it is "a potential risk to man," the institute said. More than a million Americans take reserpine in various forms to treat mild hypertension and millions more have used it in the past. Figures indicate reserpine sales represent about one-third of the market in drugs used to treat high blood pressure. 
Mostly cloudy and unseasonably co.ol with a chance of showers. High in the low to mid 50s. Partly cloudy and very cold at night with a chance ofheavy frost and a possible freeze. Low in the low to mid 30s. Partly sunny and continued cool Saturday. High in the low to mid 50s. AP 

Friday,. October 3, 1980 -page 2 
Inside Friday 



Political hold growing old 

In the back room they're counting ballots. "Reagan... Reagan... Anderson... Reagan ... Anderson ... Carter. Carter?" 
Double check the spelling of that name: That's c-a-r-t-e-r. He's our president. And unless we miss our guess he's not all that popular with students. 
Suddenly politics is once again hip, but unfor­tunately, the candidates aren't. Our McNally Poll from last week showed a clear trend toward Reagan, a mediocre inclination for Anderson, and a decided dump on Carter. Yesterday's Observer mock election showed a neck and neck appeal between Reagan and Anderson, and as for Carter... well, need we say more? 
The election attracted about 1100 students out ofapproximately 9,500 eligible ones. That'sabout one in every nine students. Not too impressive. But then, neither are the candidates. 
Dumping on our presidential candidates is fairly old hat, about as old as the hats they originally threw in the ring years ago (or whenever this campaign started). We've covered it pretty thoroughly. We sent our news editors to the conventions, pub­lished a supplement on the races, interviewed in­cumbents Birch Bayh and 
John Brademas, polled the students and elected a "winner." We've blasted the candidates on our editorial page and satirized them on features. And had football not turned out to be a fall activity, I'm sure politics would have ended up there as well. 
So here's the question: If the candidates are a bunch of nerds, why do we go to all the trouble? 
Elections . should theoretically play well to a college audience, coun­seled in the nuances of ambiguity and therefore prepared for the absurd. Journalists should attempt to make sense of both. But try as we might, with reams and reams of good political copy, the subject doesn't seem to getclearer; it just gets older. · 
I'll tell you the real reason: we were looking for an epic hero. In our naivete we began by looking for a republican Beowulf, a democratic Achilles and independent Aeneas. But in this election we don't even get personalities ... we just get themes. Reagan is Winesburg Ohio, Anderson is The Culture of Narcissism and Carter is The New Testament, except during election time wh~n he becomes The Old. Very old. 
But this is the year that old is as hip as politics. 

Mark 

Rust 
Managing Editor 
The leader in the polls is old, the subject is old and the campaign is old. The obfuscation is old, the issues are old, and the media's coverage of this stale mess is old, old, old. 
According to the looking glass theory of psychology, you are what you are exposed to. After reading and watching all the political coverage these last few weeks, I feel like para­phrasing Eliot: 
I grow old, I grow old Shall I leave my paper rolled? 
No: don't leave that paper rolled. There is still more to come. For those of you who have some­how (incredibly) missed the election coverage thus far, we will be pub­lishing our final bit of political copy on election . eve in the form of a four page supplement. The supplement will contain useful voting infor­mation, a summary ofthe platforms, articles on the 



three major candidates, and summaries and analy­ses of the local races for federal office, along with our final McNally political poll. 
And for you masochis­tic political junkies, this one ·last bit of overkill is precisely that for which you have been salivating. 
It is good to be in­

formed, and that's our purpose. But sometimes I wonder if the phrase "politically informed" isn't something ofan oxymoron. For the more you read political commentary-the more you realize the issues are the same, the approaches to them trite and vague, and the assortment of written words not much more than well structured rhetoric. 
Speaking of which, the looking glass theory comes back to haunt me. I'm exposed to rhetoric. I write rhetoric. And it's getting really old. 
The Observer is always looking for new re­porters-experience is not necessary. Ifyou like to write, and are willing to contribute a couple of hours a week, our news department wants you. If interested, come up to our offices .(3rd floor LaFortune) anytime between 12 and 1 p.m. during the week, and talk to one of our news editors. They'll be glad to get you started. 
The_Qhset"Ye N.D. STUDENT PLAYERS 
Design Editor .... Margaret Kruse Design Assistants.... Mary Dumm, Steve "Bullet" O'Brien 


PRESENTS: 
Day/Night Technicians...... Bruce Oakley, Kathy Crossett News Editor ........ Pam Degnan 

A 
Copy Editor . .. Mary Fran Callahan Features Layout ..... Molly Wolfe Sports Layout. ..... Beth Huffman Editorial Layout ... Mike Onufrak Rich "Bushmills" Nugent 



SHOT 
Classified Layout ........... MAK Systems Technician . .......... Bob Huffstodt Typist. ............ Katie Begane 

IN
ND Dtly Editor ............ Ryan 
"Dooley's" Ver Berkmoes Ad Design ...... missing in action Supplement Layout. .......... Paul 
Mullaney 

THE 
Photographer ........ Chris Spitzer Guest Appearances P.C.D.P.A.TRO! 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is 

DARK
published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions 

October 3,4, 10,II 
may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class 
•
postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

contemporary arts 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved. Tickets Available ut SU Ticket Office 

The Observer Friday,. October 3, 1980 -page 3 


PLACEMENT BUREAU 
9/.:'41110
Main Building 
Ul lllllti¥11W~ ....... .WCI TU SDhlth ~'\II CMIK'Ail '-T1.'UJ.X!$ ~~ na Llft:L-'IUII, ""'-' "-"'11 .t.LQJST !o:l.ASUS . . oUn \111111 l:'nl)lll TU IIAH llrlllt\'I(V<; ~!lr KAVF A l'IOII'I HtD I'IIOfiU (II{;JSTILUI~I 1-'M 01' ntr ,\T Till rt.At:I'JII..... T II'U.-\1­
(111. 'JICJI..lP rlii\)D II/.... I 00 A.w. Til \:00 I'.~ •• "'"DA\ rlllllli.Loll llll'bMY, IS .olii.M Zll oi.IMIJI •lUI lOll ll'lloll'lo 1[1-1'-.'1.1.., ~II'IL"GU !'I f'l 1'\llRtlt~ SCIIfDI.UD rot: l't'll'looUJ. ot' OC101D'­
~· .. ~w·........T­ --~--­ --·  
~·-·  •.  ~  -­ -t b•llo-r~  lUI  
~  ~  ~  '  )  '\I  ~ \Iilii, ~~!~~:~.~~""~~n~~:::.;,.,:·  ~~ ~~.~;.~~-~  
llnJI•ou.  • r.r•.  ~·•·  \lla.  

I 
Du_k.r lah•.nii!J....!!rotJ.,.~-~ -~Mol ,,1 ~\. AJ•I'!~•-'-!,..!.1"" 
.!1, 
ILn•llllr••IPIIn... '\a-.al__lw\»1\\,&C-'ft\111
I. . 
I IICI In U, ~­
I I ' 
ru..'ln.l.'".''-~-t_._lllfl_ur.!,roa.r~ 
I 
ltiO In Lll>. MU, rnu, Sft. Ul\ 41114 'tM.
'• •!·I·'
I 
ou •11 ~-•-'!.leo
.....,T_• ; .C ho cr, H, '0:, U, Fnar Sci ... !loot, Cooop ~d. 
. lil-1.--o-·r, 'tl. I In ~rth Sci.
I··-··..
' 
: 
,I Ar.th.II_J'..!OIIIIJ.~t:o> 
IJ •: ll•N.ct. ~and.IDwllhund•rarMu.lllt~rtdtar••·
! 
I .
'·I,, I i ~·-~~-i~~·_....,~__l_..,l' 
I
r/fit_l
....__ ,... u.• ' I : !'1 'i.! 
I 
~?&!. ... 
t..:.JC!: 
....
••.r .. 
1 

I I" 
"-)._.._h . .o(t H"'•\\•\t....,...
r . ..,l_u-.rurt.~.!-.•' 
lllfl"'t:,fi,L'h[,Lt,
I
1 .•,,..,, ...... ,.1_......,,,,.! ll'hol•tnchl'. 
' 
..... ,.,. 
il.olll.... 
•'-<t ..
.,.., 
:1 
It 
J 
I 
r,... h._.t .~a.-,_1 ... ,. •. _, •'"·'-'' lin.\! .on-JIA. lltn'lt, U. 
I_.._: I!" 
.,.,.. n. • .-.t ....... 
iA-~1 ."'-l.~>UI}.•''i' 
lltnrhr. 
J. I, ,~,...Jr.h h I" ~""!I• .. 1 l•r"."J' 1-"t In lilt, , h,.., 11 11'1 "'I', n·, ,.,.. wllh 1111 h b,,, k~rl'l<l. 
1. r. '""'"''·" '·'-'"ll,,..,.,..J rr<»>...:lll •:_r·~r
lln'tr, 
(;U)I1ol"o>J '"'I' 
CMr•H,..!. 
~~--Lrl•l ....._.1~1!!!'.0:'­11 In •II ffiJir ollutpiiMII, I In l'!•nl.., \.'-­
~!'!'.•.~'! ~·~•l!"..~-•-£orl 
llnKI. 
~~~: :.~T,-~'-' -~-f_,,_.,~ c_o 
--~C;!,a_,_.!!!!..."!!.~·-l~ll~"'-•..!."!1 jliitroll,M,~kl. 

&~J.__r~C;!> 



WHO: 
Irish National Police Choir from Dublin, Ireland 
WHAT: Concert 
WHEN: Sunday, Oct. 5, 8 p.m. 
WHERE: O'Laughlin Aud, SMC 


TICKETS: $4 GA, $2Students 
Available at SMC Box Office 283-3210 283-3333 284-4176 

Base rubble creates community 
By Brian Tucker Associated Press Wrtl'er 
Kincheloe Air Force Base l~oked as if it had been hit by nerve gas. Barracks were silent. Cavernous hangars stood empty. Pencils and half-written orders littered deserted desks. 
Built in 1941 to protect the nearby Soo Locks during World War II, the base outlived its usefulness and three years ago it closed. 
Seven hundred civilian jobs vanished, along with support business for the base's 10,000 residents. It seemed the last nail in the economic coffin of an already depressed area in Michigan's Upper Peninsula . 
But the gloom has given way to a glow of economic promise. A minimum-security state prison has moved in, providing jobs for 
300. The hangars have been converted into a bustling in­dustrial park. A California de­velopment firm is touting "Woodside," a 1,200-house pro­ct created from the old Kincheloe officers' quarters. 
The phoenix hasn't risen from the ashes, but it's certainly flap­ng its wings. "Who could expect that a community on the northern tier of this country, within a period of three years, would completely replace 700 jobs and fill all the existing buildings on that base?" asked Wallace Bishop Jr., a regional director of the Office of Economic Adjustment, a federal program that helps communities survive military base closures or personnel cutbacks at defense 

plants. Robert Risik remembers the first day he came to Kincheloe. Then city manager of the smau tourist town • of Manistique, Mich., Risik, 31, was offered the job_ as director ?fthe village or chartered township, but there will be a new creation here." 
n_
.l.JlJnTis 
i"'ecet·ve 
.l' 
WSND agam· 
WSND is again proadcasting 
""'.!!."..!!.~.11!.1~.!!1_ ~-·-~..
ltnct,lfl. 
~-".!!'""
ll!'ttnn, ,., 0!.1 for prool...,tiGn,tl..tan, ''"nu tl•-t..,..na, ••·""filii. Oil for lJoir DUIJII, ~re>uu fiiH.Irth lnd J,..,.,.,,_.,•. PhDl"'-far .....-.rch. 
IWM"""HA.~•ro .KI-tn ~6."1 --.t-Ctwto. 
~l.l'!!IJ.~..a~ch,t_l_l_l~-~ 1M In Chl 111J 11Mb h• C!01"' 
(f~L.CJII.u.i!_."!'!.d.h> I ln.Vn. "'""1111 Ao.a l>.oo·ko~r.t "' ·-·•H•rl,..
.,....... 
~ """:".• ·"t 
••n.U ........,_ 
........ ·~ 


Price~ Good While Supply lasts 
Base Converston dAuthholrttly, al to Lewis, Stanford, and Keenan state agency create to e p oca H ll Th ecent heavy winds 
ff. . I "I h d a s. e r 
o tcta s. cam~ over ere an caused some difficulties with the there was a pnson, some 100 radio transmitter, but now all of 
empty buildings and 1,200 empty houses," said Risik. "I thought there was no way I could screw it up. The situation could only improve." Risik said the effort has far exceeded his ex­pectations and predicts that by 1985, 5,000 people will live here, 2,000 of them with jobs created since the Air Force left. "You're going to have a new community rising out of this rbble," said Risik. "I don't know what it will be called, or if it will be a city, 
~.10 
'" 
.. .. 

Pinocchio's Pizza Parlor 
Luncheon Specials Weekdays 
BeerSpecials Every Nite­8:00to 9:00$.25Mug $1.25 Pitcher 
I JlltCI,.:, ..... . 
I:f-.¥-ii. I ... 
,., Mtt. 
I 
••lnllU.-J_~tl_l..-._!&!r 
iii"ii"~Ch.'l., -..... PhydCII, 
Orot• c..._... 1.-ou. t. 


llc!'.!.~"~!!.·t!!'''-~-~-·~ 
... lftii,MI,Nit. LAW 5UkJOU W.ahllll"'" ' L" a.-~rtoo.l '""'•natnh•••"'a.-sc~....t,ll-t"•'"" 
1............................................? 
1This (~oupon i 1Good for One 1 iPizza i l $2.00offany l !Large Pizza i )$1.00offany i iSmall Pizza \ 
i
...............................................l· 
We Delivt•r 
With the cost of a colle~e education continuing upward, many students are looking for ways to increase their income and are considering work that will provide additional funds but yet will not interfere with college require­ments. 
H & R BLOCK is offering a Basic Income Tax Course starting the week of Oct. 8. There will be a choice of morning or evening classes. Classes will be held at numerous locations in the South Bend/Mishawaka area. 
The unique aspect of the H & R BLOCK Income tax School is that job interviews are available to top graduates of the course. The company has more than 8,000 offices throughout the country and employs more than 30,000 
Hour... 
I 1 :00-12:00Moll-Thur.o; 11:00-1:.10 Fri-Sal 1: 00-11 : lHJ8u11 
H & R Block Income Tax Course Begins Oct. 8th 

study progresses. Students find this course interesting and challen~ing. 
Anyone may enroll. Schoo-l atten­dance requires no special experience in accounting or prior tax knowledge. The main requirement is a desire and ability to learn, according to LeonardlMoretti, district manager for H & R ·BLOCK. The course is ideally suited for college students, teachers or any­one wanting to increase his tax knowledge. 
While qualified graduates of the course will be offered job interviews, . they are under no obligation to accept employment with H & R BLOCK. 
There are franchises available to
' residents of small cities as well as job 
tax preparers during the peak of the . opportunities locally. The modest fee 
tax season. 
For 8 weeks students study all areas of tax preparation and receive actual experience in preparing individual returns. Experienced BLOCK person­nel will teach current laws, theory and application as practiced in their offices coast to coast. There is a classroom lecture on each subject and practice 1>roblems at every level. The course is programmed to teach students in­creasingly complex tax problems as 

charged for this course includes all 1 textbooks, supplies and tax forms necessary for completion ofthe s<:hool. Certificates are awarded to all graduates. 
The course is licensed by the Indiana Private School Commission. Regis­tration forms and brochures for the Income Tax Course may be obtained by contacting the H & R BLOCK office 
at nos Mishawaka Avenue.
Phone 289-2471. ADV. 
Notre Dame can rc-ve WSND AM64. 
· 
OLD MILWAUKEE BEER 
24-12 oz. cans 
$6.49 
BLATZ 
BEER 
24-12 oz. N/R Bottles 
$5.99 
PABST 

BLUE RIBBON Qts.-Case of 12 
$8.19 

GlACOBAZZl LAMBRUSCO 
750 mi. 
$2.59 


DeKUYPER 
PEPPERMINT SCHNAPPS 
1 liter 
$4.99 

CASTILLO WHITE LABEL 
RUM 

80 Proof 1Uter 
$5.39 


7.128 South Bend Ave. Phone: 277-3611 
NO Party 


The Observer Friday ,.October 3, 1980-page 4 

hair designs for the aware man and woman 



STUDENT SPECIAL. 
MON-TUES-WED. onlv FREE REDKRN CONDITIONER 
-WITH HAIRCUT & AIR-DRY STYLE

,Rj)RE[)I<ENUI) 
HOURS mon -8:30-5:00  fri-8:30-6:30 .  
tues-wed-8:30-S:JO  sat-8:00-4:00  
thurs-8:30-8:30  phone:134-676?  


.. 

_, 

'fh~ Oktoberfest spirit is apparent in a toast in the St. Mary's Biergarten [photo by Chris 
~pttzer) 
[continued from page 1] 
' tion of a Stu<1ent Senate. The prospective S·:nate's objective is to unify the tudent voice in one I body and to achieve wider re­presentation within that body. 
The present system represents students primarily through three bodies: the Board of Co_mmi~o;sion~rs, the Campus
ILife Counetl and the Hall President's Council. 

10 oz. Prime Rib 6.9 5 22 OLand up Prime Rib 10~95 choice, 
cooked slowly, tender, juicy ... so good Surf 6 Turf... 9.95 (smothered In sauteed mushrooms pampered w/ lemon 6 butter) 
the Grecian Atrnosphen fnjoy 2 Dining Room•·
of Our 
3421 Wnt Sa., ... So. Beed 181·1423 
Stuffed Broiled Trout ... 6.9 5 Greek Shishkabob ... 6.9 5 LUNCHEON 


Steak 6 Shrimp... 6.9 5 
GRECIAN CUISINE: Specializing in 
Greek Gyros 
SPECIALS SERVED DAILY 
open Sun. for 
dining &cocktails 
4:30-IO:OOpm 
J~c mask wt«ctt_ 
Cl1l ac~fl 1lJG.1tJ!, 
M 
apr -W kamtc fw, Ia«
# 
ltAfO .IHE t\=f\ft.IL
-· --------­



• • . Riehle 
Conversely, the proposed Senate combines all three bodies into one organization. As stated in its proposed constitution: The Senate is composed in such afashion to encompass all present student govern­ment organizations while simul­taneou.rly broadening studnet partict~ pation. All members on the Board of Commissioners remain on the Senate. Hmvever, the Senate includes aother HPC representative (four total) and three mort!-OC representatives {four 
total). In addition, the class officers have been added because they represent specific con.rtituencies with defimte needs and have an established line rf communication. 
Riehle's rationale behind the Senate proposal is that the stu­dent voice might have a better chance ofbeingheard andlistend to ifunified, rather than diffused in three separate bodies. 
The next student forum shall be held on October 8. 
• • . Election 
[continued from page 1) terday. On the presidential 
ticket, Libertarian Party candi­quickly dissipated when the first date Ed Clark received 2.4 per­SMC ballot boxes were tallied. cent of the vote, and perennial 
Communist Party nominee Gus Perhaps the biggest surprise of ·Hall, with former civil rights 
the election was the margin by which 27-year-old John Hiler trounced House Majority Whip John Brademas. Of 952 votes 
·cast in this election, Hiler won 546 to Brademas' 406, and nearly 61 percent of registered Indiana voters chose Hiler over the 11­term incumbent. 
In the Indiana gubernatorial 
race, onlv 851 votes were cast, 
and Orr captured 491 of those. 
Among Indiana voters, a state 
known for its conservativism, 
Orr r•tcked up a 2-1 victory, 
pulling in 66.5 percent of the 
vote to John Hillenbrand's 30.7 
percent. American Party candi­
date Cletus Artist picked up 30 
\·otes overall, but onlv seven 
came from Indiana vote.rs. 

Artist and Anderson were not 
the only third-party candidates 
to were not the only third-party 
candidates to recei\·e votes ves­activist Angela Davis as his vice­presidential selection, gained 1. 3 percent of the vote. 
Also picking up votes were Socialist Workers Paty candidate Clifton DeBerry (.3.7 percent), Citizens Party candidate Barry Commoner (.19 percent), and American Party candidate Percy Greaves (.09 percent). 
It is interesting to note that the McNally pc.ll conducted for The Obserwr last week, and published yesterday, predicted quite ac­curately the result of the presi­dential race. The poll showed Reagasan with 40 percent, Anderson with 29 percent, Carter with t14 percent, and 19 percent either undecided or vot­ing for another candidate. Reagan actuaLly received 45.5 percent, Anderson 34.5 percent, Carter 15.6 percent, and 4.4 per­cent to other candidates. 
(',.. Brothers Go A e ~~ o~~­.-..~ DUCK SOUP{'~~~ 
Saturday , Oct. 4, 7, &9 pm Engineering Auditorium 
Groucho For President 
Sponsored by Graduate Student Union 
----------------------~--~--------------------~-~------. 
Editorials  Friday,. October 3, 1980 -page 5  
Take the plunge Do you sometimes wonder, over the long Christmas break, what to do with your time? Have you ever wanted to do something just a little bit different than the usual, or a bit challenging? Perhaps the answer is an Urban Plunge. This 48-hour exposure to the inner city would provide an awareness into the kind oflife that most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students do not know. The students' backgrounds are quite comfortable and offer some degree of security. The Urban Plunge would show a partofurban society that lives from day to day and deal with injustice and poverty and discrimina­tion as a part of daily living. Forty-eight hours may not seem long, but it is long enough to meet people working to make things better and to talk to people living in difficult situations-long enough to have a valuable learning experience. Students planning careers in any of the professions may be called upon in their work life to make crucial decisions regarding inner city problems. To make decisions based on Christian conscience will demand insight, knowledge and compassion. One observant student came across an apt quotation from Plato: " ... Let us, as we must, go into the city and observe the sole of it. Let us take the plunge ... " Last year 227 students "took the plunge" in 42 different cities across the country.  Ominous rumblings Michael Onufrak One thing this presidential election, and yester­our foreign policy, already described as erratic by day's mock election, has shown, is that the once­. ourallies, even more confused. Second, it makes it sacred boundaries known as party lines have been tougher for a chief executive to realize com­, broken down. I think there are two reasons for this plicated, long-range domestic programs which d'evelopment. First, isJohn Anderson's defection have usually borne their fruits in an administra­from the Republican ranks. And second, is Edward · tion's second four years. And third, and most Kennedy's failure to actively support his party's ominously, a string of one-term Presidents has nominee, Jimmy Carter. been a traditional sign of social upheaval in this It's no secret that people are no longer voting country. There were, for instance, five one­along party lines. For instance moderate termers before our most serious period ofinternal Republicans, dissatisfied with or even scared of disorder, the Civil War. Ronald Reagan, are siding with former Republican But besides the effects ofcross-over voting and Anderson. These people are by no means aban­the breakdown of party lines, their is another doning their party, as yesterday's mock election culprit in this trend towards one-term Presklcnts. proved. While I was helping to count the ballots, I This culprit is, not surprisingly, the medh The was struck by the number ofpeople who voted for media; print, audio, vjsual, and multi-media, has so Anderson and then voted a straight Republican closely scrutinized the office of the presidency, ticket. I think it's fair to say that these voters are that everything the PresiJent does is either a major  
Today is the final day of sign-ups for Urban Plunge. Application forms can be obtained from the Campus Ministry off1ces or hall reps at Notre Dame and the Office of Religious Studies at Saint Mary's. The Observer encourages students to take  moderate Republicans, turned off by Reagan, but· success or blunder. Lately, as luck would have it, still proud of their party. But it is Anderson's we've had more blunders than successes. In the Independent candidacy which has caused many days ofWatergate the print media broke the story, voters to split their ticket. dubbed it a scandal, and then turned the whole  
the plunge: it is an experienc<! you will not regret.  
United Way  
~is weeken.d mark~ the end ofNotre Dame's United Way dnve. As thts chanty effort winds down, The Observer encoura~es those ~ho have not yet given to do so. The Umted Way 1s a wo~_hycaus~. In the past, this charity has dra~n unfounded cnt1c1sm w1th respect to the funding of aboruons. Yet, the St. Joseph's chapter of United Way does not fund abortions, but Instead contributes towards such worthy causes as Boy Scouts and local YMCAs. · The 1980 Notre Dame Drive should be no less successful than. past years. The Observer encourages you to contnbute.  A similar phenomenon can be seen over in the mess over to TV which brought it into our living Democratic barnyard. In the scrambled confusion rooms in close-up color. One would have to admit that is the Democratic party, you will find many that the press did more than its share in ousting liberals who cannot endorse their party's nominee Richard Nixon. One would also have to say that with their vote. These voters have also turned to the press defeated George McGovern in the '72 Anderson, but are also still proud of their own election when Jack Anderson declared his organization. The result is many voters supporting running-mate Thomas Eagleton unfit. The press  
by Garry Trudeau f[#;'tr}{J, Z£JNK! 'tW'R£ ON! I  Anderson, but still coming out for local went wild with it, and the conservative stalwarts of' Democrats. If Kennedy was stumping hard for the Democratic party were paranoid of Carter, some of the defectors to Anderson's camp McGovern. Soon Democrats for Nixon was born, might be deterred. and the "gang-up effect" was gaining momentum. It blossomed in '76 when the broken Nixon, the Whatall this means is notonly the breakdown of media's victim from Watergate, dragged his the tradition ofvoting the straight ticket, but also successor, Ford, to defeat. Here, the "gang-upthe transformation of the two-party system. In effect" was made manifest in Republicans who felt 1972, when I believe dissatisfaction with a too­guilty about voting for the man who pardoned the liberal George McGovern (for Democrats) started arch-demon Nixon. It was the media, of course, this trend towards abandonment ofstraight party who made the Nixon pardon possible, to begin  
~PIW" TANNEI?S NEV6R. MISS A SRJT! lf!ATOI 10£As:ztJNK£1(. PV7'3.' /£&, f€e!.. KXllHPIO<S  voting, Democrats for Nixon played a significant with. The press also made "the mood of the role in Richard Nixon's re-election. In 1973 and country" ripe for a "soft-sell" ("I'll never lie to 1974, though, Watergate and a number of other you." big smile)candidate who would be the local and national political scandals occurred, and recipient ofthe media catch word, "momentum." the stage was set forwhat I call the "gang-up It was in this manner that Jimmy Carter W!l5effect." created. Which brings us to 1980. The press has given Carter a "credibility gap," labeled him a poorThis effect, in which the party out of power leader, told the world his brother is causing himbonds together with the dissatisfied from the scandal, and given Reagan "momentum." Theincumbent's party, has dominated the last three result has been the defectors to the Independentpresidential elections. Dissatisfied Democrats and Anderson and, in some extre~ cases, to thecontent Republicans ganged up on McGovern in Republican Reagan, and even the Libertarian E~'72; guilty Republicans and hungry Democrats Clark. The next question is, "What if Reagan rsganged up on Ford in '76; and now embarassed and elected? Then I think you will see the "gang-up consci~nce-stricken Demos are joining opportun­ 
lJET1(EEJI HIS 70£5! J  effect" work as effectively against Reagan in 1984, ist Republicans in voting for Reagan and dis­as it has worked for him in this election. By thenil~usioned Republicans in voti.ng for Anderson. Reagan will have so alienated the country with his facile solutions to the extremely complicated (and If this trend continues, we just m1ght end up as far as I can see not necessarily solvable problems with a string of one term Presidents, rather than of energy and the economy} that the moderatesthe traditional two-termers we have had in the who voted for him this time will be dying for apast. This is bad for three reasons. First, it renders liberal. If the pattern of the "gang-up effect"  
always centering on the opposite party (first on McGovern, then on Nixon/Ford, then on Carter)Michael Onufrak is editorials editor of The continues Ted Kennedy could be a good horse toObserver. His weekly column appears each Frtday. backin'8~. -·  

Editorial Board and Department Managers
====Ih~JO~~==== 
Edllor·tn·Chlef..... . Paul Mullaney S.\1C Nf'U'S Edrtor . ....... Mary Leavitt 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Sports Edt/or Beth Huffman The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
,Hanap,ing Edt!ur.. . . Mark Rusr 

Edtlonuls Editor.. Mike Onufrak Fc>..ztures Edrtor . . . . . . . . . . . Molly WoulfeUniversity of Notre Dame du ~.c and. Saint ~1ary'~ Cl?llege. It does not ~ecessanly 
Photo Edt tor .................. John Macor
Semor Cuf') Editor . Lvnne Dak~·

reflect the policies of the a~m1mstrauon .of e1the~ tn~tttuuon. The news 1~ r.eponed 
Neu·s f:'d~tur. Pam Degnan

as accurately and as objectively as poss1ble; Ed1to.n~ls represent the op1nton of a Ru.\mess Manager ......... Greg Hedges
Neu·s t."dtlur . . . Tom Jackman

majority of the Editorial Board ..Com":lentanes, opm1ons, and letters are the v1ews J · M )11hn .McGrath
of their authors. Column space 1s ava1lable to all members of the c~mmunny, and Prouuctwn anager ..... rhe free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, IS encouraged. SMC Executwe F.dttor .. -Margie Brassil 
The Observer Fnday, October 3, 1980 -page 6 
P.O. Box Q 
Chval article draws band ire 
,. 
Dear Editor . 
In response to Craig Chval's 
article on the sports page on Sept. 
?'; mber of tChehUru·~ershi~y
Bands I thank Mr. va1 10r IS 
graceful acknowledgement that the 
band has technical excellence and 
dedication. 
However, I reject his insinuation 
that the gospel show lacked 
imagination. The theme of gosp~l 
music is one that is used rarely, 1f 
ever, by collegiate m~_trch_ing ba~ds. 
In addition, the imagmattve vanety 
of moods presented in the show 
appealed to a wide audience. · 
As for Mr. Chval's suggestion 
that our ·repertoire o( songs w~s 
antique: This shows n~t ?nly his 
lack of musical appreciation, but 
also his failure to see beyond the 
student viewpoint. 
The band is playing to an 
audience of 60,000 people, not all 
of whom are students. We play to 
people of all ages, and thus attempt 
to perform shows that are univer­
sally entertaining with music from 
many different time periods. 
Mr. Chval's final objection was 
that the band played "The Victors," 
the fight song of Michigan, after 
their final touchdown. As a matter 
of courtesy, our band will play the 
opposing team's fight song in the 
absence of their own band. 
As an aside, Mr. Chval's memory 
of the facts is faulty. The Band did 
not play after (he final Michigan 
touchdown. We had already left 
our seats at that time to prepare for 
our post-game show. We did, 
however, play "The Victors" after 
an earlier touchdown out of respect 
for those fans who were not rooting 
for Notre Dame. 
The University Bands are 
dedicated fully to the spirit ofNotre 
Dame. All 208 members are willing 
to practice on an average of ten 
hours weekly, plus further indiv~­
dual practice, for only one credit 
hour. The only rewards are the 
appreciation ofthe crowds, and the 
knowledge that we are the Notre 
Dame Band and we are proud of it. 
Beth Picknally 
Meaning behind 
thermometer 
beautiful 
Dear Editor, 
I can sympathize perhaps 
more than others with Profes­
sor Tom Strirch's recent letter 
to The Observer, in which he 
comments that the 1980 Notre 
Dame-United Way Campaign 
''Thermometer'' by the Ad­
ministration Building does not 
contribute to the natural 
beauty of the campus. I say 
this because I teach a course in 
Plants And Human Affairs, 
and believe that plants and 
natural surroundings can con­
tribute not only to the quality 
of life but also to our psycho­
logical health. 
However, life is a compro­mise! We thought about the pros and cons of/lacing the Notre Dame-Unite Way Cam­paign Thermometer there. We concluded that since it would be present for only about one month, ..nd that it would help to sensitize University people to the importance of the Cam­paign and of the need for their panicipation, any temporary negative effect felt by some would be offset by the support it might bring to the 35 ca.r:ing agencies served by The Umted Way. 
Finally, the sign is not ugly. I think the university painters 


did a good job. But to see its · tidbit: we were the fourth flat his journalism professors use his in the Sunday Michiafltl Magazine. real beauty, think about all of reponed that night on Douglas, piece ofwriting as an example of The latest "Date Book" page, for the help that its "red mer-a road whose upkeep is the a poor attempt at editorial example, lists no fewer that 55 cury" represents for people in responsibility of Notre Dame. comment. I suggest to Notre events and activities over a one­need. Let's see now...we have a Dame that they reevaluate werT­week period in the South Bend " campus road that is danger-shirts and what makes them use area. These events include every­
C
Theodore]. rove11o . ously dark--a road that has 

the campus newspaper to further thing from lunch time concerts
Pr_ofessor and Chazrman of been neglected to the point of 

a sexist mentalitv. at the Centruy Center to lectures Bzology . 1 undrivability. We have sec-
and seminars; from piano recitals 
1980 Nf!lre Daf!Ze-Unzted Way urity personnel who are con-Remember Mr~ Rust, at Notre 
to bicycle rides. 
Campazgn Chazrman tent to have girls stranded Dame one ofthe most important 
there at night, and who hang ethics states that football is Another suggestion is to con~ up. serious business-no jokes. At tribute some time to a Cat_J-­Stranded on Not too comforting a run­Saint Mary's we feel the same didate's campaign for public down, is it girls? about the character and "person-. office, this being an election year IX>uglas )Road hood ofwomen. with a lot at stake. Finally, there 
Sue Boos 

are a lot of events and activities
Cathy Kunkel 

right here on campus, as well as a 
Dear Editor, AlbertJ Shannon,
-Paula Mazeski 

library filled with books and
PhD Assistant Professor Department
Carole Hattrup 

periodicals.
Something is not right. Gail Goodenow of Education When a small group of female students and their wounded Mr. Rust's column suggests a VW are stranded on dark South Bend larger problem: on the whole, Douglas Road and can't get the Notre Dame students contribute
Women mean

.assistance--much less the very little to the South Bend attention--of Security, some­offers many comunity but expect a great deal thing is definitely not right. in return, including nightly en­Driving along the unlighted more than tertainment. Many Notre Dame street at 10:30 last Friday alternatives students live in the South Bend night, we were pitched into community for nine months out distress by an unavoidable wet t -shirts Dear Editor, of the year, and many, (certainly pothole. There was no dodging not all), abuse it, as coOlirmed by this foot-deep crater, of course, the devastation observed along 
because of an oncoming car Mark Rust's article, "In the Notre Dame Ave. on SaturdayDear Editor, Jungles ofSouthBend," (Obseroer and Sunday mornings and in the
and the absence of a roadside 

I am writing in reference_ to , Friday, September 26, pa~e 2), aftermath of graduation cere­
shoulder. Our Beetle'.s injuries 

Mark Rust's editorial "Inside is the latest in a long senes of monies i~ the spring. While
included one hopelessly flat 

Friday: In the Jungles of South diatribes levelled by Notre Dame deriding the city, many of these
tire and a mangled rim. We 

Bend" which appeared in the students at the South Bend same students demand coopera­
are not inept at changing tires, 

Friday, September 26 edition of community. While I admit that tion from its officialdom and
but with no light, such an 

The Observer. "wet T-shirt" contests are not police force in dealing with
operation was unattemptable. 

The Observer staff has reached a high culture, I object to his problems-encountered in the
Heading toward Holy Cross 

new low in the annals of jour­characterization of South Bend, northeast neighborhood. •
House to use the phone, we 
nalism for permitting such an based on that experience, as a
felt cenain that Security would 

editorial. Mr. Rust has success­town in which the only thing to The generalizations in Mr.
come to our aid. Surely they 

fully led the usually co';llpetent do ona Tuesday night is to attend 
Rust's column illustrate how and
would agree to call a gas 

writers of The Observer mto the such affairs and rub elbows with explain why members ofeach of
station, perhaps drive us to 

land of hack journalism, with a the "local color" (heaven fobid). the two commmunities, (South 
one, or simply come and hold a 
quick stop offat the mentality of 

Bend and Notre Dame), persist 
flashli~ht while we tended to 
the National Enquirer's audience. 

in stereotyping each other in
our aihng vehicle. One phone Few would argue that South
It is indeed a sad day when the 

call, however, proved our con­Bend offers what Disney World, unflattering and unproductive
managing editor of a major

fidence mistaken. "Not pan of Malibu Beach, or Marin County, ways.
campus daily finds nothing mo_re 
Calif., offer; South Bend is an
our job," was the grumbled 
to write about than a wet T-sh1rt 

ethnic, working-class commun­In the end, I supposes it's not
reply. Disheartened, we asked 
contest. 

ity with a wide range of inter­so much the message of Mr.
what, then, they would advise. 
Is the glorification of women 

esting, if not flashy, neighbor­Rust's article that is inost irritat­
Apparently, they wouldn't 
as sex objects still of prime 

goods. The problem in this case, ing; rather, it's the arrogant tone
advise anything; they hung up. 
importance to you, Mr. Rust? 

however, lies not so ·much with of the column that makes him
A Holy Cross House nurse 
Have you no sensitivity at all to 

South Bend and what it offers, sound about as likeable and
suggested that we call back, 

the personhood and character of but with those, like Mr. Rust, humble as one of the fraternitythis time clarifying that we womenatSaint Mary's and Notre who have an apparent need for studs in the film "Breaking
were Saint Mary's students, Dame? Indeed, it may be the 

constant entertainment. Away".
lest Security exclude us from habit ofcollege boys to frequent 
Fn"tz Fubera

their jurisdiction. Our second tease shows, but does such be­try was no more successful, havior merit print? I encourage One ought not suggest that============~ there is nothing to do in this city. 
though. Again, Security's you, Mr. Rust, to come out ofthe 
The Observer welcomes 

response was a less than dark ages and recognize that If people are looking for activi­
letters. Letters intended for 
ties to fill their spare time, they 
compassionate "CLICK." women play a far more signifi­

publication should be typed,
might consult the "We Need
Back on desolate Douglas, cant role than to fill up your 

couble-spaced, and signed. To 
we met a State Policeman who Tuesday nights. You: Volunteer Jobs Available" 
insure swift publication, it is
column which appears each
was unable to help because he I encourage the staff of The 

suggested that the wnier in­
was en route to another call. Observer to censure the editorial Sunnday _ in the South Bend 
clude his I her phone number. 
Tribune, orthe"DateBook" page
Still, he offered an interesting of Mr. Rust. I recommend that 
-

---------~--------· 

The Irish Extra 
an Observer sports supplement 
Friday·, October 3, 1980 -page 7 


Rudzinski keys for Spartan clash before family 
by Mark Hanmtksela 
Sports Writer 
A little more than a year-and-a-half ago, Joe 
Rudzinski was faced with a decision. A senior at 
Detroit Catholic Central High School, Rudzinski 
had a choice between being "Little Rud" at 
Michigan State University, or being the first in his 
family to attend Notre Dame. 
"I had a brother that played at Michigan State," 
says Rudzinski, "and it was close between there 
and here. I decided to come here because I wanted 
to do it on my own, and not be in his footsteps. 
We're really close, and he understands that. He's 
glad I came here because it gives me a chance to be 
myself." 
In only his second year, Rudzinski has made a lot of other people happy he made that decision. A starting outside linebacker on Dan Devine's final Notre Dame football team, Rudzinski has been one of the leading tacklers in his team's two 1980 victories. His nine-tackle total against Purdue was bettered only by linebacking mates Mark Zavagnin, who led the team with 14, and tri­captain Bob Crable, who had 10. Included among those nine tackles was a sack of Purdue quarterback Scott Campbell, one of eight registeretl by the Irish defense in the opener. 
Two weeks later Rudzinski brought down six Michigan ball carriers. His two-game total of 15 ties him for second with teammate Zavagnin on the Irish defensive charts, behind Crable, the team leader with 31 stops. 
After set=ing only spot duty as Bobby Lt=opold's back-up last season, Rudzinski got his shot during last spring's Blue-Gold contest. He played well enough, in the eyes ofhis coaches, to earn himself the starting job for the 1980 season. 
"At the end of last year's spring game, Coach (George) Kelly told me I did real well," says the 6­6-3, 208-pound native of Farmington, Mich., a suburb of Detroit. "He said about the only way I could lose my spot is if someone came along and beat me out." 
Kelly, the linebacker coach in his 12th year as a coach at Notre Dame, says "Right now, Rudzinski holds down the outside linebacker position because he earned the job in spring ball. Actually, that's the whole reason you have spring ball-so the players can come back and know where they stand. With all the talent we have, however, he (Rudzinski) will have to continue to work hard to maintain his starting job. 
"Joe is a very emotional player," Kelly adds. "He's a very intense player. During the course of his career, he hasn't had a great deal offield time, and it really wasn't until this spring that he got a chance to concentrate and be able to play. I thought he made some outstanding plays in our two ballgames, and he is becoming a better player day after day." 
"I agree with Coach Kelly when he says I'm an emotional player," says Rudzinski. "I think everybody is to a certain extent. I seem to play my best when I'm fired up." 
As a freshman, Rudzinski was a member of the traveling squad that defeated Michigan, 12-10, last year at Ann Arbor. He saw his first action two weeks later when the Irish opened their home season against Michigan State. In that game, he logged two minutes of playing time, as well as some spot duty on the specialty teams. 
Now, Rudzinski looks back on that contest as one ofthe most importantofhis freshman season. And, facing the opportunity to play extensively against the Spartans this season, Rudzinski can't wait for Saturday to roll around. 
"Playing against Michigan State last year was a really great thrill for me, especially because of Paul (the brother who starred at the school located about 75 miles from the Rudzinski home, and who later went on to play two seasons with the Green Bay Packers in the NFL). He was in the 
stands with my parents, which made it even more special. 
"This year, we're playing at Michigan State," says Rudzinski, "which is going to be really neat because I can still see myself sitting in the stands there. I used to go with my parents every Saturday to watch Paul play, and this year they're going to 
. (continued on page 9) 


Sophomore tailback PhtlCarter bas been the workhorse for ihe Irish thus far this season, and will more likely 
Wtth fingers crossed 

Ailing Spartans prepare for Irish 
by Paul Mullaney 
Edttor-in-Chief 
Things are not exactly going that well for Michigan State's first-year football coach Frank "Muddy" Waters. And he'll be the first to tell you. 
"We're having trouble just getting a complete unit together. We just don't have enough depth," emphasized Waters, whose Spartans (1-2) host Notre Dame (2-0) tomorrow afternoon at 1 p.m. EDT (12 noon South Bend time) at Spartan Stadium in East Lansing, Mich. 
"We'll be hanging onto our lives against Notre Dame. In fact, we're just hoping· to get through this week's practice sessions all right," he said. 
Although Waters' sentiments may sound unusually pessimistic for a coach, they may, nonetheless, be legitimate. Granted, Waters wasn't left with a score of talent from last year's 5-6 team. But a significant number of returnees have already taken to the sidelines. 
Fullback Derek Hughes, MSU's leading rusher a year ago and the nation's second-best kickoff returner, sustained a knee injury last week in practice and underwent surgery. He will miss the entire season. 
Standout tackle Bernard Hay, who started the season as one ofonly three returning defensive starters, severely sprained his right ankle in last week's 33-7 victory over Western Michigan. Itis not expected that he will return to the lineup by tomorrow. 
In addition to these key injuries, defensive back James Burroughs was declared academically ineligible prior to the season's start.Burroughs was tied for the team interception lead a year ago, and was counted on to bolster the Spartan secondary. 
"It's been a real patch-up job trying to get things together," said Waters. "We're just hoping we can hold together. We don't have enough depth, which doesn't help drive our top-liners because there is nobody behind them pushing them for their jobs." 
Those who are expected to hold their Spartan teammates together are returning junior quarterback Bert Vaughn and veteran senior halfback Steve Smith. Vaughn has also played a role in the MSU injury picture this year, suffering a back bruise in the Spartans' 35-7 loss to Oregon. Although he is still on the, mend, he is expected to play. 
"All I can say is that we're going to have to contain their running game, stop their passing, and play as tough as we can," said Waters. "I look at Notre Dame as a complete team. They're big, talented, and have no apparent weaknesses. They're a bunch of monsters." 
Notre Dame coach Dan Devine would probably be delighted to hear Waters' compliments, but he is by no means counting the game over this early. 
"We're just happy to be 2-0," said Devine, whose Irish are ranked seventh in this week's Associated Press poll. "We did some good things and made some big plays in our win over Michigan two weeks ago, but we also found plenty of areas where we needed to do some work." 

One player who has had plenty of work already is Irish halfback Phil Carter. The sophorwre tailback paced Notre Dame against Michigan with 102 yards in 30 carries. A 100­yard performance tomorrow will make Carter only the fourth player in Notre Dame history to rush for 100 or more yards in three consecutive 
games. 

Although freshman Blair Kiel was at the Irish helm for the last scoring drive against Michigan, Mike Courey is again expected to start at quarterback for the Irish. In two games, Courey has completed 16 of26 passes(.615) with three interceptions. 
Defensively, the Irish will once again be led by middle linebacker Bob Crable. With 31 tackles to date, the junior captain has more than twice as many as any other Notre Dame defender. 
Strong safety Steve Cichy and offensive guards Tim Huffman and Rob Gagnon remain injured, and probably won't see action before next week's game against Miami at Notre Dame. 
"We are really in good shape, especially compared to last year," said Devine. "I just hope we continue to improve and don't have a letdown. 
"It's great to win games against teams the caliber of a Purdue and a Michigan. But Michigan State will also be tough. Their victory over Western Michigan told us quite a bit. They did a 
(continued on page 8) 

The Irish Extra Friday, October 3, 1980 -page-8 
, -Duerson shines with, 'Yi.thout ball 

by Ed Bradley  Waters, "and, well, frankly, wedidnot  coaches in that loss as well.  
Sports Editor  have much of"n offense to pay tribute  Stachowicz surely isn't hoping for  
Michigan State News  to. Ray has gained a lot ofyards for our offense this year."  that honor again tomorrow. Punters can be a great boost in bailing out an 

Michigan State all-America punterAll-American Last weekend, against Western offense, but they can't put points onRay Stachowicz, the NCAA's leading candidate, is known Michigan, he punted four times for an the board by themselves. It's aboutkicker, has been one of the brightfor his dizzying · average of 49 yards. The Spartans the only thing Stachowicz has left tospots for the Spartans offense thisspirals. And Duerson helped him some, though, scoring 33 do at Michigan State. 

year. That's right-he's the punter. 
possesses no illusions 

While that may not speak very points against the Broncos in their That or get offensive player honors about MSU's desires. 
highly ofthe MSU offense, tt certainly first win of the year. in a victory. The Irish gave the 
speaks well of the senior from Is he doing anything special this Spartans plenty of 
Broadview Heights, Ohio. year?"Ray is just tremendous," praises "I haven't really done anything
reason for revenge nuer.ron with last season's 
Spartans coach Muddy Waters. "We different," is the reply. "I have been 
actually consider him more of an trying to get some more height on my27-3 victory. 

offensive threat than a defensive­• •• • Ailing
kicks, though."
"This game will be all out war," he offers. 
player." 
Han~ time -the key to any''They're going to be remembering last "A player like Stachowicz can have punter s success. In the season opener (continued from page 7)vear's contest. We knocked their top two all kinds of an effect on a game," said at Illinois, only one of Stachowicz' great job taking advantage ofWesternquarterbacks out and that was the turning 

Notre Dame coach Dan Devine. "He punts was even returned and the other 

Michigan's mistakes.'' 
point of their season." 
can keep you penned up in your own four pinned the Illini inside the 10­

Devine, a former assistant coach atDuerson's gridiron campaign seems to 
territory all day_ and can be a real yard Iine. One of those was marked a have recently reached a turning point of its 

weapon." toot away from the goal line. "It Michigan State, hinted earlier in the own. He admits suffering a rather frustrating 
Stachowicz was named Offensive looked kind of close," smiled week that there may be two Spartan case of intimidation last fall, and is doing his 
Player oftheWeek by his coaches two Stachowicz, "but I think the refcalled strengths that the Irish may key on. best to rid himself of the affliction. 
weeks ago-again, not much tribute it fairly." "Vaughn probably will be back at 
Ray's brother, Bob, played 

to the offense-when Michigan State full strength," said Devine. "We have"I want to be a more agressive back this quarterback for most oflast year's 27­
lost to Oregon, 3 5-7. He tied a school seen him before, and we know he is ayear. Last year I listened to too many people record with 11 punts and averaged 3Spartan loss at Notre Dame after top good quarterback.
tell me how good the USC receivers were, or 
over 50 yards a Kick. Now, if only signal callers Bert Vaughn and Bryan 

"Also, I can't imagine a team in thehow fast theMichigan split end was. So in the 
Waters could figure out a way for Clark went out with injuries. Bob is 

country with a better kicking gameback of my mind, all I could think of was 
Stachowicz' powerful leg to help the now playing semi-pro ball with the 

than Michigan State's.'' 
'Wow, this guy runs a fast 40 so I'll play him 
offense rather than bail it out. Columbus (Ohio) Winds. 

All-American and three-time all-Big loose to not get beat.' 
"We were debating about the Ironically enough, Ray earned 

Ten punter Ray Stachowicz is"What I didn't realize," continues 
offensive player that game," said offensive player honors from his 

currently the nation's leading kicker, just as fast as they could. Now, instead of 
Duerson, "was that, if I had to, I could run 

averaging 48.1 yards per punt Against thinking, 'Hey, this guy is great,' I tell myself 
Oregon, he averaged 50.6 yards on 11 I can stay close with him. I'm starting to play 
GAME NOTES 

punts. a more physical and aggressive game on my 
Morten Andersen, whose 53-yard field goal last fall set a Notre Damereceivers." 
GAME: Notre Dame vs. Michigan state 

opponents record, missed his first A more natural combination than 
SITE: Spartan stadium, East Lansing, Mich. (76,000) 

PAT attempt in 63 tries last week. HeDuerson and football seems unlikely. In 
nME 1:00 EDT (12 noon South Bend time) 

made up for it, however, with field between his frequent glances at the Monday 
nME: Notre Dame-Mutual Network, live 

goals of44 and 49 yards and moved upNight Football telecast, the Planner resident 
RADIO: Metrosports Replay Network, taped 

to second place in State's career fieldtalks about his sport with such inherent 
TELEVISION: WNDU-TV, Ch. 16, live with Tom Dennin and Jeff Jeffers 

goal listing. 
excitement that his passion for the pigskin is 
by Kelly Sullivan Women's Sports Editor 
Quarterback and running back -every kid on the block wants to play one of those two glorified postions. 
But defensive back? The spot where you run up and down the field, shadowing receivers who more often than not serve as decoys? The place where dogging it on just one play coultl cost you the game? The last line of the defense. Ifthe secondary makes a mistake ... six points. , 
Defensive backs do not have the most enviable position on the team. So it's hard to imagine a player who would rather run the length of the turfwithout the ball than with it. 
Meet Dave Duerson. A high school back who broke all kinds of records running with the football. 
A college back establishing a name for himself running zulthout the football. 
A cornerback on the Irish roster, Duerson joins teammates Tom Gibbons, Steve Cichy and John Krimm in the experienced Notre Dame secondary-a unit too often recognized for its mistakes and not for its achievements. 
Duerson comes up with solid reasons for preferring the relatively glamour-less post of a cornerback to that ota press-hounded ball carrier. 
"I was recruited for either position, but Luther Bradley (ex-Irish c_ornerback) reminded me that the life ofa defensive back is a lot longer than the life of a running back," Duerson recalls. "Besides, I like my knees," he adds with a grin. 
Apparently the speedy sophomore from Muncie, Ind., received some sound advice from Bradley, who also attended Muncie Northside. When -seasoned cornerback Dave Waymer sustained an injury against Purdue last year, Duerson's number was called by his mentors. 
He proved himself capable of filling some mighty big shoes, and went on to start the remaining seven games, logging more playing time than any other Irish freshman; 
Although a fixture on Dan Devine's defense, the 6-3, 198-pounder continues to be an offensive threat to Notre Dame opponents. Duerson is the squad's leading punt returner, bringing back 12 last season for a 17.4-yard average. 
"Yeah, those punt returns take me back to my high school days," he says, obviously enjoying the chance to display his ball carrying prowess. 
Duerson's lofty return average will face a 
stiff test in Saturday's 
clash with Michigan 
State. Spartan punter 
Ray Stachowicz, an 
quite clear. 
But if football rates as his first love, then 
baseball runs a too-close-to-call second. 
Duerson's high school exploits on the 
pitching mound caught the attention of the 
Los Angeles Dodgers, who drafted him in the 
fifth round after his senior campaign in 
1979. The multi-talented athlete waged an 
internal struggle about his immediate future. 
"The baseball offer was very tempting," he 
admits. "But I decided my education had to 
come first. IfI were to suffer an injury 
playing baseball, I would have passed up an 
opportunity for a terrific education." 
The decision to attend Notre Dame has set 
well with Duerson. From the business 
major's initial weeks as a college .student he­
sensed the atmosphere under the Dome was 
one he could easily live with. 
"When I walked around campus as a 
freshman, I really didn't know many people, 
but there was always someone saying hi to 
me -I just knew this was the place to be. 
"During freshmen two-a-days, the coaches 
gave us time to attend ·sessions teaching us 
how to study in college. When a university 
takes that much interest in a guy, you know 
it's special. From that moment on I said 'I'm 
at the right place."' -Duerson appears fully contented at this 
stage ofhis life. What will it take to maintain 
that euphoria? 
"Records, statistics-you know, they don't mean a thing. I want to be satisfied with myself at the end of four years. I want to know that I really gave it my best, both academically and athletically. I never want it said that I didn't give Notre Dame all I had." 
No one need worry about that. Duerson's almost unbelievable patronage for his second home should make him a formidable candidate for "Mr. Alumni" honors some 20 years from now. In the meantime, he'll continue to sirrg praises about Notre Dame to anyone who'll listen. 
"I showed six of the freshmen recruits around campus last spring," says Duerson, "and. none of them believed me when I kept telling them how good this school is. They kept asking me what was bad about Notre Dame, and I said 'Hey, I'm sorry, but there's nothing wrong."' 
Funny, but that's exactly what people are starting to think about you, too, Dave. 


Stachowicz: lone star for Spartans? 
~~ ~ ~~----., 
._ 
I I 
l

-------·---­
The Irish Extra Friday, October 3, 1980 -pa·· 9 
Tom GibbonS.· a leader in his own way 
by Gary Grassey Sports Writer 
By the media and the less knowledgeable football fan, Tom Gibbons is sometimes brushed aside all too easily as the "other" captain on the Notre Dame football team. 
After all, isn'tJohn Scully the man on the offensive line who receives the billing as All-American, fatherly influencer of those four young linemen on his right and left flanks, and the leader of occasional crowd-inspiring displays on the field of fist-held-high-in-the-sky nature? 
And then there's Bob Crable, another Irish All-American who earns his living being around the ball, around the action, and making the biggest of the big. s.tops. He is very much the vocal and spmted leader he appears to be on the field. 
So how about Tom Gibbons? Well he's been in the picture for three years. 
As a starter in the defensive secondary since the Purdue contest three Saturdays into his freshman year, as a member of every punt team, every kickoff team imagineable and now, in his senior year, he is a captain. 
"Bob, John, and I all show by example our own way," says Gibbons, a versatile ballplayer who has seen action at all four secondary slots at one time or another in his career. "I'm a little bit calmer, you might say. A guy like Bob-he makes the big plays all the time. I'm the last line of defense and I've got to be able to be in the right place or it's a touchdown." 
Head coach Dan Devine and his staff obviously realize the value of Gibbons' contributions to the team. "The coaches presented a game ball last Monday," explains Devine. "Two were passed out in the dressing room after the {Michigan) game, but we gave one Monday to Tom Gibbons (five tackles and two passes broken up). His stature on this team is pretty high and I don't think anybody here looks at him as the 'other' captain." 
In an area where he must deal with the likes of Michigan's Anthony Carter and Purdue's Dave Young, Gibbons, neither the fastest nor the biggest of defensive backs, has demonstrated as much aptitude for pass defense as many more physically gifted athletes. 
"I think I have an ability to understand and grasp the overall meaning of the whole defense," says Gibbons. "I'm the slowest one out there, but I use my head a lot. I think that's my biggest asset." 

Playing the free safety position is a task Gibbons has grown to enjoy more than his original post at cornerback two years ago. "I just wasn't fast enough to play cornerback," Gibbons recalls, "So I was glad to move back to free safety. I get to read the quarterback a lot more there. I spend a lot of time watching film." 

That comment prompted a note of sarcasm from Gibbons' fiancee of three years, Lexi Swedish. "If we didn't study together, we'd probably never see each other," she says. Tom Gibbons will readily attest to that factor as well. 
"Sometimes, when I look ahead to all the things I have to do in a week I don't know how I'll ever get it all doAe," says the aerospace engineering major. "But I usually do. So ·I spend most of my free time with Lexi." 
ButGibbons turns his attention back to the field. "I've been here for four years now," he relates, "And this team is so much closer than any other I've played on. We've been successful because we know our strengths and weaknesses and we've worked to get better." 
Much of that attitude is exemplified by ,Gibbons' personal career. "It takes a rare combination of things to play in the secondary," says Devine, "and Tom is nowhere near as fast as a lot of guys, but he is quick. He's got good football sense, he's tough and he's a hitter." 
"I felt I could do the job from the start," Gibbons comments. "We always say that when you get your chance, you've got to be ready to take it. I've never been much of a gung-ho guy and I tend to get a little quiet around game time, but I've always played with a certain attitude about not giving up and learning as much as I can all the time." . As for the captaincy, Gibbons say·s, "Of course it's a great honor, but like I said, we all deal with it our own way. John is a fifth­year guy, I'm a senior, and Bob's just a junior, so you can see right there that we're each a little different.". 
That's okay for Dan Devine, though. "When I look at those three," he says, "it's funny how each has his own different style. But Tom is as fine a spokesman for the University as any of them. There's no competition or petty jealousies, and nobody is more dominant over anybody else. They all have the same goal of contributing all they can to the good of the team." 
Tom Gibbons is as fine an example of the attitude of this Irish team as anybody. Be it captain or otherwise. 
Coaching a learning experience for Gene Smith 
by Btl/ Marquard 
Sports Wrtter 
Coaching came as a shock to Gene Smith. 
Watching game films with some of the other players in a darkened conference room in the recesses of the ACC, head coach Dan Devine walked up behind Smith and whispered, "Would you like to be a graduate assistant on the football coaching staff?" 
"Sure," Smith answered. Ten minutes later, reality set in. "I was totally shocked," recalled the 24­
year-old Smith, sitting in that same conference room some three and one half years after that memorable day in February of 1977. 
"I had interviewed with several firms already, in anticipation ofgraduation that spring," explained the business management major."! sat down the next day and talked to Coach about the job. 
"And I've been here ever since." Indeed, Smith had been at Notre Dame 
: for four years prior to his accession to the coaching ranks. A standout at Chane! High School in Bedford, Ohio, Smith began his Notre Dame career as an offensive guard before being switched to linebacker halfway through his freshman year, a year in which he saw spot action on the 197 3 national championship team.

After a two-week try at tight end ("I wasn't the type of person who could run routes and patterns," he explained) and 
two years ofarm and ligament injuries, Smith closed out his Irish career as a backup defensive end in 1976. 
The switch from player to coach changed the specialty team and JV mentor's perspective on the game. 
"The two roles differ quite a bit. I am now able to understand why coaches do the things they do-and I'm -doing a lot of them,"said Smith. "As a player, I found it tough to understand the heavy practice schedule and why we were pushed so hard. 
"But now I know that that's what it takes." 
The transition was also diificult to make because less than four months before spring practice opened in 1978, Smith had been playing with the same people he was now coaching. 
"I couldn't yell at them my first year," he conceded. "I mean, Jim Browner was my roommate-I went to parties with these same guys. I had to have the discipline of a coach and still act like a senior." 
Having played on the 197 3 national championship team, Smith has a special insight when it comes to comparing that squad to this year's. 
"I think we have more talent at the skilled positions this year, and we are more spirited beca~se of our youth. 
"The 197 3 team had a blend of youth and experience," recalled Smith. "There were seven or eight underclassmen who played key roles-guys like Ross Browner, Willie Frye and AI Hunter. But it was a very mature team. 
"The fact that this ye~r's team is 2-0 is phenomenal," Smith added, "especially if one looks at the adversities that they have faced in the past six weeks: the schedule change for TV, Coach Devine's unexpected resignation,and the undecided quarterback situation. They overcame every one of these. · "There is a young mystique about this 
team-it's hard to grasp." 
Smith accepts a lot ofthe responsibility for the team's performance, since specialty squads are an important part of the game. 
"Specialty teams can turn a game around in one play," he said. "Michigan's Anthony Carter almost did that by himself two weeks ago with his kickoff return in the second half. By the same token, Harry Oliver did turn the game around-for good." 
"Specialty teams have to make the big 
play-they need what I call 'controlled 
aggression.' The players have to run down 
the field, tear a blocker's head off, and 
then compose themselves and move to 
the ball in a split second. 
"Specialty team players are a rare 
breed. Take Harry Oliver, for example. 
You look at his body on the practice field 
and say, 'What are you doing out here?' 
But there is a seriousness in his face." 
Along with the specialists, Smith must 
oversee theJV squad, the prep team t~t 
lines up against the regulars every day m 
practice.
"That ~s probably the hardest of my responsibilities," Smith admitted. "It is hard to keep·guys out there every day. You have to get them to give all they have even when they don't get much of the credit. It requires a little .psychology. 

"Three-fourths of our prep squad are walk-ons, who do make a big contribution to the team. There are guys out there who could be big stars in interhall football, but who come out and work their butts off for us instead." 
Working hard at practice is nothing new to Gene Smith -he just understands it a little better now. 
• • . family 
(continued from page 7) 
come and watch me play. That's going to make this a very emotional game for me." 
Yet who will brother Paul be rooting for tomorrow? "Oh, Notre Dame, of course," says Joe. 
"The biggest thrill I had was when I was being recn.tited,"recalls the younger-Rudzinski."I went into the Notre Dame locker room. I can still remember that today. It was the greatest feeling I'd ever had in my life." 
"Knowing that Knute Rockne and Frank Leahy and all those people were here, and the tradition-it's something every kid dreams of, playingfor Notre Dame. When I was being recruited, it was almost like I was part ofit then. It was something 1 will never forget." 
By the time Joe Rudzinski is faced with another decision after his senior year, that memory should be just one of many that occupies a space in his heart. 
The Irish Extra Friday,_ October 3, 1980 -page 10 
Students lend medical support 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Writer 
This is a story about some of the most important people in the Notre Dame athletic department. 
You probably haven't heard of these people because they don't score touchdowns or kick field goals. They don't coach, they don't manage-they don't even count the money after ticket sales close. 
What they do is tape ankles and treat injuries, doctor athletes and even slip the coach a few aspirins for those post-practice headaches that are sure to result from preparing for a schedule like Notre Dame's.They are the backbone of Notre Dame's sports medicine department­
the student trainers. 

J
, 
! t 
I ' 
"That's exactly right," says John Whitmer, coordinator ofthe department. "They do exactly what the staff trainers do, except our responsibility and paper work is a little heavier." 
This year's student staff includes three seniors: John Doherty, Tom Krueger and Jeff Whitten; three sophomores: Rich Bontrager, Steve Power andJane Trusela; and one freshman, Paul Kollman. Along with staff trainers Whitmer, Gene Paszkiet, Skip Meyer a_nd Diane Patnaude, they tak~ care ofthe physical condition of every varsity athlete on campus. 
"Basically what the students do is tape ankles before practice and provide therapy that either a doctor or a staff trainer prescribes for an injured athlete," explains Whitmer. 
"I trust every student on the staff," he emphasizes. "They wouldn't be hired if they couldn't do the job." 
Itis a job that entails countless hours of work-"About 30 a week during football season," estimates Whitmer.­And that doesn't include staffing practically every varsity sporting event scheduled at Notre Dame. 
"They come in about 2:30 every afternoon and they don't leave until 
6:30 or 7 p.m.," points out Whitmer. "And we try to staff every varsity sporting event. Of course, that's not always possible but we make sure that a trainer at least stops by the event two or three times to make sure everything is all right." 
Obviously it is a job that requires a certain amount of knowledge and skill. Most of the students had extensive experience in high school training rooms and many attended summer camps and clinics to further develop their talents. 
"We screen everyone we hire very carefully," says Whitmer. "We find out about their experience and what kind of people they are before we hire them. This is a difficult job and sometimes it involves a lot of pressure. We want to be sure the kids we hire can handle it." 
And can they? 
"Absolutely," he stresses. "We have a great bunch this year. Of course, that's been the case every year since I've been here." 
Seniors, Whitten, Doherty and Krueger will travel with the football team to assist head football trainer, Paszkiet. Whitmer will likewise ask for assistance with hockey, or Meyer with basketball from the senior student staff. That makes for even more work, more responsibility and more hours away from the books. 
"But it's a great opportunity," points out Krueger. "It gives you a feeling of doing something constructive here. Besides, I think I speak for all ofus when I say that we like the work. We enjoy the people and the opportunities the job gives us. 
"I think the athletes and coaches definitely respect us," he continues. "They know we are here to help them and I think they appreciate the extra time and effort we put in to do a good job." 
Lineups 

Notre Dame Offense POS tl!Q ~LAVER 1::11 WT CL 
TE 86 Dean Masztak 6-4 227 Jr. LT 74 Mike Shiner 6-7 250 So. LG 76 Randy Ellis 6-4 251 So. c 57 John Scully 6-5 255 Sr. RG 65 Bob Burger 6-2 240 Sr. RT 71 Phil Pozderac 6-9 260 Jr. SE 85 Tony Hunter 6-5 211 So. QB 2 MikeCourey 6-1 202 Sr. FB 33 John sweeney 6-2 225 So. HB 22 Phil Carter 5-10 193 So. FL 31 Pete Holohan 6-5 228 Sr. p 5 ·Blair Klel 6-1 200 Fr. PK 3 Harry Oliver 5-11165 Jr. 
NOTRE DAME DEFENSE 

LE 47 John Hankerd 6-4 245 Sr. LT 98 Pat Kramer 6-4 251 Jr. Rl 63 Don Kldd 6-2 240 Sr. RE 70 Scott Zettek 6-5 245 Sr. LLB 46 Mark Zavagnin 6-2 230 So. MLB 43 Bob Crable 6-3 220 Jr. RLB 51 Joe Rudzinski 6-3 208 So. LCB 23 Dave Duerson 6-3 198 So. RCB 19 John Krimm 6-2 183 Jr. ss 29 Tom DeSiato 5·10 182 Sr. FS 27 Tom Gibbons 6·1 181 Sr. 
MICHIGAN STATE OFFENSE 

POS 1110 ~LAYER 1::11 WT CL TE 95 AI Kimchik 6-3 212 Sr. LT 72 Jeff Wiska 6-3 245 Jr. LG 66 Mike Densmore 6-3 256 Sr. c 56 Tom Piette 6-4 248 Jr. RG 69 Rod Strata 6-1 232 Sr. RT 63 Dave Whittle 6-5 259 Sr. SE 21 Ted Jones 6-1 180 So. QB 15 Bert Vaughn 6-5 214 Jr. FB 45 Andy Schramtn. 6-3 227 Sr. HB 20 Steve Smith 5-9 188 Sr. FL 24 Tony Gilbert 6-2 179 Jr. p 19 Ray Stachowicz 6-0 190 Sr. PK, 8 Morten Andersen 6-0 195 Jr. 
MICHIGAN STATE D~FENSE 

LE 88 Ron Mitchem 6·5 268 Jr. LT 86 Johnny Lee Haynes6·1 231 Sr. RT 93 Bernard Hay 6-2 238 Sr. RE 91 Smiley Creswell 6-4 226 Jr.­OLB 39 George Cooper 6-2 208 Jr. MLB 58 James Neely 6-2 225 So. OLB 40 John McCormick 6-2 221 Sr. LCB 7 Chris Van Pelt 6-3 195 So. RCB 48 Nate Hannah 6-0 166 Fr. ss 13 Rick Milhizer 6-2 181 Jr. FS 27 Thomas Morris 5-11 175 Jr.

College Grid Picks 


1980 
Paul Mullaney Beth Huffman Michael Ortman Kelly Sullivan Frank LaGrotta Craig Chval Brian Beglane Bill Marquard Gary Grassey Editor-In-Chief Sports Editor Assoc. Spts Editor Women's Sp. Ed. Sports Writer Sports Writer Sports Writer Sports Writer Sports Writer 
26-10, .723 28-B, .778 27-9,.750 27-9, .750 24-12, .667 26-10, .723 27-9, .750 27-9, .750 26-10, .723 
Penn State at Missouri Lions by 3 Tigers by 1 Lions by 7 Tigers by 5 Tigers by 6 Tigers by 6 Tigers by 8 Tigers by 7 Lions by 3 UCLA Qt Ohio State Bruins by 2 Bucks by 14 Bucks by 12 Bucks by6 Bucks by 9 Bruins by 2 Bucks by 6 Bucks by 10 Bucks by 8 Arizona State at USC Trojans by 7 Trojans by 10 Trojans by4 Trojans by 9 Trojans by 3 Trojans by 8 Trojans by 10 Trojans by 7 Trojans by 11 Kentucky at Alabama Tide by 27 Tide by 10 Wildcats by 1 Tide by 16 Tide by 3 Tide by 17 Tide by 17 Tide by 17 Tide by 18 Florida St. at Nebraska Huskers by 8 Huskers by6 Huskers by4 Huskers by 14 Huskers by 7 Huskers by 10 Huskers by 7 Huskers by 3 Huskers by 9 LW at Florida Gators by 1 Galors by 7 Gators by 2 Galors by 10 Tigers by 3 Gators by 4 Gators by 10 Gators by fO Tigers by 5 Houston at Baylor Cougars by 3 Bears by2 Cougars by9 Bears by 4 Cougars by 3 Cougars by3 Bears by 14 Bears by 10 Bears by 6 VIrginia at West Virginia Cavaliers by 7 Cavaliers by 5 W.V~:J. by 2 W.Va. by6 W.Va. by 1 W.Va by 9 W.Va. by 8 W.Va. by 7 Cavaliers by 7 Notre Dame at Michigan Irish by -\5 Irish by 20 Irish by 21 Irish by 17 Irish by 13 Irish by 22 Irish by 17 Irish by 20 Irish by 13 
ND 1980 UNITED WAY STUDENT DRIVE 
Participation Chart 

· .. 100 percent· ... 90 percent ... 80 percent 
. 70 percent .. 60 percent SO percent .. 40 percent .... 30 percent ... 20 percent 10 percent .. 0 percent 
·;: c .c c >-iii iii <II "' u c >-c c "E .Q ~ 
E '6 ~ g 01 g .l!! ~ c c u 0 "' ~ 0 c 0 i " "'c 0 0 'o "' 0 <II c :;: 0 0 " 0 .2 u:: 0 0 u 0 <II <II ~ ~ .~ (11 .; ''"' ~ 'E c 3:
0 3: .0 0> a. c 0
<" "' u 0 u:: ~ I 0 c ;;; .<( 
C:. > 0 "" ::; 0 
a. g
0 I 
~ u >
.. 
"We're· all in this together!" 


Features 
Friday, October 3, 1980 -page 11 
Bon Appetite, Mr. Carter 
President Cartt:L's popularity has recently riseh in some polls to a poi~t where he enj()ys a narrowlead over hts opponents. This has been attributed in part to Governor Reagan's skill as an extemporaneous speaker. But I have learned that the President's support has increased because ofa shrewd new twist in his re-election strategy: Jimmy Carter's campaign has turned into a food fight.
It was leaked to me that the President has decided to shift the emp_hasis ofthe campaign from issues to edtbles; when Carter's opponents start on his record, he'll start on dinner. My gourmand informant is a member of the White House Cooking staff, known only to me as "Deep Gulp." In a nighttime interview in the parking lot of a fashionable Washington restaurant, Deep Gulp fed me the low-down on 
Carter's plan. . 
"Every incumbent uses the qfftce of the President to gain himself supportbr. promising various interest groups dtffercnt favors," Deep Gulp whts­pcred from under the shadows of the Golden Arches. "But Carter is wooing voters by promising different 
FLAVORS. 
"The President knows that to many Americans, another four years of Carter in the White House is un­palatable. He believes, though, that if he can successfully associate himself and his Administration with delicious foods, his re-election will be a piece of cake.'' 
"Has Mr. Carter been successful at 
this culinary campaign so far?" I asked. 
"Yes, very much so. Carter's abilio/ to retain his support at the Democrattc Convention was directly due to the fact that special areas were set up for loyal delegates. The White House referred to these as 'delegatessens,"' Deep Gulp gi~led. 

"And alter Kennedy's defeat, bitter feelings were ameliorated by the Carter camp when they had a special chicken dinner-featuring only LEFT WINGS. 
"But this is all chicken feed com­pared with the main course that the President has beencooking up for the next month and a half." 
"Really? What's on the menu?" I asked. 
"I'm not sure, but it won't be small potatoes. Carter has resurrected the 'Kitchen Cabinet.' 
"The people closest to the Presid~nt have been assigned to various cuisine. Secretary Muskie has been appointed as head of Fish and Seafood, while Carter's son, Chip, is assigned to Cookies. Billy Carter has been moved to ChiefofForeign Foods after serving as Head of Beverages. Hamilton 
Jordan took over that spot because. of 
his dealings with coke. And tt's 
rumored that even Teddy Kennedy 

REEL REVIEWS 
'In God We Trust!.-Holy Mess 


"In God We Trust" is without doubt the worst movie of the current season. 
How does it achieve this dubious distinction? You name it. Better to say what's good about it-running time is a mere ninety minutes, meaning that your release from this disaster comes mercifully soon. The film just isn't funny-not at all. When making a comedy it's always wise to include something humorous; the producers of this one didn't bother. 

Marty Feldman as Brother Ambrose in "In 
God We Trust" 
· 
On the surface, the film has all the 
makings ofan at least acceptable film. 
The producer is Marty Feldman, the 
bug-eyed protege of Mel Brooks. Fans 
will remember his superb performances 
ina wholestringofBrooks' films. Now 
on his own, Feldman proves to be an 
able actor who takes direction well. 
Rut when counted on to write, direct, 
and star as he does here, he crumbles 
like the proverbial over-strawed camel. 
A large portion of the jokes are the 
cheap physical kind that even an 
insipid mess like Gilligan's Island 
never stooped to. Evidently, Feldman 
thought that having himself tumble 
down a hill would be funny; the joke 
falls further than Feldman. 
The premise of the film is a spoofof the televised reborn Evangelist indus­try. You know, those God-fearing, devil-damning men clad in white, who are perennially surrounded by bevies of psalm-singing beauties in satin robes. This topic has been begging for a satirical disrobing ever since Earl Angley cured his first cripple. There aren't many topics more ripe for the ruining. Sadly, the topic is ruined, from an entertainment standpoint. 
Feldman plays the role of a naive young monk sent by his masters to get money to save the monastery from having it's mortgage foreclosed. Never having been on the outside, Feldman is completly befuddled by the real world. However, instead of showing the dumb monk trying to cope with life, the writers (i.e. Feldman) choose to milk humor from this premise by having Feldman chow down on hot dogs, mustard and ice cream (com­bined) as if he's never seen real food before. This scene is repeated often through the rest of the movie, like 
those beans you had for dinner last 
night. 
Feldman soon finds a romantic interest, a completly original character never before seen on the silver screen: a warm-hearted hooker. Louise Lasser, who everybody remembers for her memorable role as Mary Hartman, seems bent on ruining her reputation with this role. Her portrayal of Feldman's girlfriend is one more be­fitting the likes of Susanne Sommers. Lasser, who is now in her forties, is continually made to look like a cute nymph in her twenties. The results are less then successful, and she looks like what she is, an aging star trying to look young. 
At times the movie has aspirations to be a romantic comedy. This is a genre Feldman has never worked in and doesn't here, either. BrotherAmbrose's virtue is the butt of many stillborn jokes, and at least halfan hour is spent with him slowly falling into degenerate acts with Lasser. On the "morning after" both express their love for each other. Had the scene been accom­panied by cheesy organ music, itwould have been hysterical. The sad realiza­tion is that they are serious when they say things like: "Oh your eyes are so deep," and, "I understand it's not your first time." Lines like those are less palatable than the hotdog concoction. 
Ambrose gets his inspiration for the monastery-saving money from seeing an evangelist named Armageddon T. Thunderbird on TV. Andy Kaufman makes his first and hopefully last movie appearance in the role as the money-hungry preacher. Kaufman, who plays on "Taxi," is a man known to have a few screws loose. Anybody who has seen him wrestling women on 

Mark Ferron 
will join us and be in charge of Sour 
Grapes.'' 

"But, Deep Gulp, how will food 
actually help the President's chances of 
winning in November?" 
"It's all by association. Carter 
became President because he was 
readily associatd with peanuts. If we 
can associate the President with as 
many foods as possible, every sip, 
crunch and chomp is another vote. 
The campaign will even raise the 
public visibility of Vice President 
Mondale by patenting 'Fritz Corn 
Chips."' 

"I guess I can swallow that," I said. "But has this strategy ever gone wrong and left the President with egg on his face?" 
"Yes, a few times. Although foreign policy is Carter's bread-and-butter, he goofed when he served ham to Prime Minister Begin at Camp David. And the Soviet grain embargo was half­baked.'' 
"But tell me, Deep Gulp what do you think Mr. Carter woufd do if for some reason his campaign strategies failed and he lost the election?" 
"Well, believe it or not, all of the candidates have got some sort of future plans should they not win. Governor Reagan will return to work for his favorite charity, the Home for Aging Reactionaries. John Anderson's plans include appearing in television commericals for theAmerican Express Card. And I suppose ifJimmy Carter should be defeated, he'll try to find work in a food-related field now that his peanutwarehouse has gone bottom up. However, most former Presidents just write their memoirs in quiet seclusion. So I guess Carter may go to Notre Dame and work on his Presidential SAGA." 
Ryan Ver Berkmoe~ 
the "Tomorrow" show can attest to 
this. His portrayal is totally uninspired 
and lacking the real fervor a true 
preacher would have. The final half of 
the movie is spent having Ambrose 
trying to get a chance to see 
Thunderbird for the money. A number 
of inane plot twists are introduced­
but by now you get the point. 
In the end Richard Pryor is com­
pletely wasted as some sort of computerized device called G.O.D. that somehow runs Thunderbird's vast, religious big-buck empire. His .appearence on screen consumes just a few minutes, definitely. not justifying his crowd-inducing billing in the ads. 
The final word for this thing is 
hokey. Most of the jokes are so 
laboriously set up, even the dimmest 
ofviewers can see them coming. When 
Ambrose goes to fix a sign with a 
hammer, one is tempted to retreat to 
the lobby, so as not to have to watch 
him hit his thumb. A full ten minutes 
are spent on a chase, at the film's end, 
that has the entire Church of Divine 
Profit (Thunderbird's bunch) chasing 
Ambrose bn a skateboard through 
L.A. Even Disney contrives better scenes than this. Feldman has failed to realize that humor is based on the unexpected, and when you can see the punchline coming from afar, the result is at best a yawn, and at worst a groan. 
The film's technical budget is readily apparent all too often as well. Tech­nical goofs like sloppy editing, and poorly dubbed sound abound. The inside of Thunderbird's billion-dollar cathedral looks like the inside ·of a mercy mission in Tarzana. Let's hope for everyone's sake that Feldman does what he does best and returns to acting-for other people. 
' . 
t 
t 
~~-~--~-~-~-----------­
Features 
lETTERS TO A LONELY GOD 

Frlday,.October 3, 1980 -page 12 

Fellows seem more willing to talk about it than girls do. Fellows try to mention it casually, in matter-of-fact tones, as though they had detached 
themselves  from  an  emotional  in­ 
volvement:  "During  the  summer,  
my  folks  separated.  Now  they're  

planning on getting a divorce." 
Girls, when they t,ell you, are on the verge of tears. Fellows, playing macho, keep the facts objective, but the hurt is there all the same, and sometimes an anger at the · way parents can hurt one another. You, listening, can only suppose that parents are doing the best they can. Maybe spouses have maintained a marriage for a long time after the flame has flickered out; hanging on to commitment, for the sake of children, during years when indif­rerence has long since taken the place of love. Who can tell the suffering that marriage partners endure from one another as a consequence of a mutual fidelity promised at an altar when anything seemed possible to youn~ folks who found each. other endeanng? 
Life changes people, despite vows that pledge constancy. Responsibil­ity ages them. Disappointment lines their faces a defeated look that makes them seem habitually tired. ]obs become altogether engrossing, or they grind a soul down with monotony. A wife becomes a house­hold frump·; a husband becomes the office bore. Prosperity ruins their need to be needed. Each partner asks, in differing degrees of des­peration: "Is this all there is to my marriage: an econovic trap in which I am stuck for life with an erstwhile lover who lushes, or cheats, or burps away the Sunday afternoons of the best years of my life? What have we offered each other lately. except nagging, neglect, and Valium?" 
So marriages break up as middle­agers scramble for a second chance at life, in aninsistence on having a freedom needed, they think, to save their souls. Like it or not, they tear apart their children. The children, coming to you, say: "Help me to make them see sense." 
The most comforting story in the ]esus-book tells the parable of the Prodigal Son. It wouldn't make sense to update a timeless story, but even sublimity can haYe its variant versions. Maybe what the twentieth century needs is a parable of the Prodigal Parents. It could go like this. 
A certain couple in Westchester had two teen-age children, a son and 
.a daughter. One day as the children were leaving for college, the mother said: ''Kids, your father and I are splitting. I'm taking the house, the 
~ bank account, the credit cards, and the Chrysler stock. Your father is keeping the family business.'' The father moved out of the Westchester home, and took an apartment in Manhattan, where he kept a mistress. The mother, staying at home, took up with a crowd 6f swingers. She travelled a great deal to places where the sun shone brightly, even in winter. It was high time she saw something of the world, she told friends, after the drudgery of keeping house for twenty years. After a while, there was a reces­sion in the country, and inflation made people on fixed incomes feel relatively poor. The Wall Street mardet faltered, stocks paid virtually nothing, and the brokers wouldn't touch Chrysler if you served them with borscht. The Westchester home had to be sold for taxes; the money legt over was used to pay off the mortage. In Manhattan, the father had it hard, too; conditions were so bad that the family business had collapsed. Rents went up because of inflation, and the father had to move into the YMCA, where mistresses are expressly forbidden. One day, the father and the mother, now both working at low­income jobs, ran into each other at the same bargain sale in Macy's basement. ''Imagine my surprise at seeing you here," he said. "You used to do your shopping at Saks." 
''You should talk,'' she said. ''You look like a hobo's Halloween.'' 
'I'll buy you coffee at Child's," he said, "if you leave the tip. We need to talk." 
·~It's cheaper if we go to the Greek's, where there's no mini­mum," she said. ''I'll treatJou." 
Between them, they ha seven 
• cups of coffee. First they got over hemg ashamed of the way things 

Pleafor 'Swords into Ploughshares 'at ND 
"Peace, it is peace which must' guide the destinies of peoples... If you want to be brothers and sisters, 
let  the  weapons  fall  from  your  
hands.  You  cannot love with  wea­ 
pons in your hands. "  

Today and tomorrow, the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's College World Hunger Coalition and the South Bend ] ustice and Peace Center will co-sponser a conference on peace and the arms race, "Swords into 
/ 
had turned out. Then they remem~ 
bered how lovely life used to be, and 
they began to wonder if they 
couldn't make it again. finally they 
understood .that the only way the 
couldmake tt was together; and they 
became as intimate in their affec­
tions as the Greek, having no 
minimum, would allow. 
''The real heartbreak of the mess we made," she said frnally, "she "is what we did to our kids." 
"We're rotten parents," he said. 
The children got hurt most . by seeing how we hurt ourselves. They trusted us not to cause each other pain." 
"Maybe," she said, "they'll be happy to hear that we are together.'' 
They went to the campus, where the children went to school on scholarship, and arranged to. meet ~he children in the chapel after Mass. To the children's surprise, their parents knelt down before them. 
"We've been foolish parents," they said. "We have not deserved to have you as our family. We want you to know we have always loved you.'' 
The children made their parents 
stand up, and they hugged them and 
hugged them, saying: "You've been 
caring for us all our lives, and we've 
just kept on taking. We are the ones 
who should be sorry. We've hurt 
your chances at happiness by being 
so selfish. " 
The mother said: ''You mean we can expect you for Sunday dinner?" 
"Every Sunday for the rest of our lives, if you want us,'' the children said. "Tonight we want to give you the biggest party the Dean of Students will allow, so that you can . meet all our friends." · · 
"I haven't got a thing to wear to a party," the mother said, "just an old, tacky silver sable, and a shabby gown from Balienciaga. '' 
''You can have the dress I bought for the prom,'' the daughter said. " I'm giving it to you because I love you so much." 
That evening, the children gave an enormous party in honor of their parents. They even asked a priest to come in and bless their parent's being together. Everyone danced through the night as though it were a wedding. 

At midnight, one of the son's roommates came back from Chicago, where he had been interviewin~ for a job. "What's going on here? ' he asked. 
The son said: "We're having a party for my parents." 
The roommate, more than a little jealous, complained: "For three years, I've been your best friend. I've been closer to /ou than a brother, and you coul never even afford to buy me a drink. Now your folks show up,-after years of not really giving a damn, and you're supplying the Heinekens for half the Quad.'' 
The son said: "We'll be buddies 'til the day we die. Someday, I'll want you to be the best man at wedding, and the godfahter to my children. But pare:tts are back together, and now we're a family again, so please put off the long face, and be happy for us. I don't value yoo any less as a friend because my sister and I have a home we can call our own.'' 
The parable, mutatis mutandis, is highly adjustable. Sometimes, par­ents need to be offered an unlimtted compassion, as though they had wandered to far countries, where the living is riotous. Grieved by what they are up to, the faithful child waits with love, not knowing if there'll be a homecoming, or not. Tenderness, without judgment or anger, must move upward as when children are being patient with their parents, as well as downward, when heaven is showing mercy to a lost lamb. Even God needs our forgive­ness, as any Jew, or some Blacks living in America, could tell you. The Father who merely watches the fall of sparrows does not always seem the friend of the nest. 
The parables have yet to be written for the ministry to children being scarred by divorce. The best parable any of us knows tells of the father who welcomed his boy's return from a far country. Kids have got to know that parents too can leave the farm; quite a few parents, these days, wonder what life would be like in that djstant place: S;ome, who go, might even make it back, if they expect that someone kindly will be waiting for them, watching the road with loving eyes. 
In addition, John Gilligan, former Governor of Ohio and current ThomasJ. White Professor ofLaw at Notre Dame will speak Saturday morning on ''The Failure of Foreign Aid." 
Rob Gabriele 

Bread for the World as well as president of Pax-,ChristiU.S.A., the American chapter of the interna· tional organization devoted to peace­making. BishopGumbleton was also one of only three American clergy­
The conference will also include a men to vistt the hostages in Iran onPloughshares: the Quest for Peace in prayer service tonight, led by Bishop Christmas, 1979.
the Modern World .. " William McManus of Fort Wayne­

South Bend. This will follow imme­In addition to the University
The conference will feature Bishop diately after the keynote address and community, the conference sponsors Thomas Gumbleton, auxiliary bishop discussion period. Weather rerm!t­are inviting the parishes of South of Detroit, as keynote speaker. ting, it will be held by candlel~ght m Bend and all concerned people of the Bishop Gumbleton will speak on the esplanade in front of the ltbrary, area to participate in this important"U.S. Arms Policy vs. the Gospel of under the mosaic of Christ the work of helping to build a conscious­
Jesus,"at 7 p.m., tonight in the Teacher. The conference will con­ness toward peace. library auditorium. On Saturday clude with a Eucharistic liturgy for morning the Bishop will also engage peace at noon tomorrow, the feast of 
For more information contact:
in a debate on the merits of SALT II St. Francis of Assisi, a patron saint with Professor Alan Dewty of the of peace . Bishop Gumbleton Rita .Kopczynski at 6484 in the 
morntngs
N.D. Government Dept. and Bernard will be the celebrant. Norling of the N.D. History Dept. 288-0641 in the afternoons 
The keynote speaker, Bishop Tho­
Edward Gaffney of the N.D. Center 
mas Gumbleton, has been auxiliary 

Rob Gabriele is a Notre Dame
for Constitutional Studies will mod­
Bishop of Detroit since 1968. He is

erate. student from Chicago, Illinois.
also board member and president of 


I 
I 
I I ­I 

page 13 

Campus 
FRIDAY, OCT. 3, 1980 
e5:15 p.m. mass, the bulla shed, supper too. e7 p.m. speech, us arms policy vs. the gospel of jesus, library aud. e7, 9, 11, p.m. film, "casino royale", k of c hall e7,10 p.m. film, "the sound of music", carroll hall (smc) e8 p.m. play, "he who get's slapped" o'laughlinaud. (smc) 
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 
4, 1980  
e9:30  a.m.  speech,  "the  
failure  of  foreign  aid",  
library aud.  

enoon, smoker, msu on t.v. with food and drinks, k of c hall e7,9 p.m. movie, "duck soup" marx bros, eng. aud. e?,9,11 p.m. movie, "casino 
royale", k of c hall e8 p.m. play, "he who gets slapped" o'laughlin aud. 
•9 p.m. nazz, jerry and barry, Iafortune basement 
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1980 .12:30 p.m. ceremony, formation and knighthood degree, wear your tie and 
. jacket, k of c hall e6:30 p.m. meeting, hall v.p.'s, Iafortune ballroom e7,9,11 p.m. movie, "casino royale", k of c hall e8 p.m. concert, irish nat') police choir from dublin, o'laughlin 
Chess club 
sponsors 
tournament 
Attention all chess players! This Sunday, October 5, the Notre Dame Chess Club will be sponsoring a chess tournament at the LaFortune center. The tournament will consist of three rounds, to be played at 9 a.m., 
12:30 p.m., and 4 p.m. The players will be separated into groups of four, with the winner of each quad receiving a popular chess book. The entrance fee is $5, and registration will take place from 8:00 to 8:45 Sunday morning. For more information, call 234-9648. 
Jr. parents 
weekend moved 
Two important decisions were made this week concerning Junior Parents Weekend. The dates of the weekend have been changed from February 13, 14, and 1 5 to February 6, 7, and 8. The weekend was moved up a week in order to accomodate an unforseen change in Father Hesburgh's schedule. In addi­tion, theJuniorClassOfficers, in conjunction with their class ad­visor and last year's weekend chairman, have named Bill Flynn, a junior from Zahm Hall, 
this year's Junior Parents 
eekend Chairman. Flynn and 1 
Class Officers will be ac­

, tarting next week. ~~~liililiiiliili.iiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiliillilii•iiiliiiiill•liiiiM•iil•-.....,.. 
epting application for oher ositions on the committee. 
Molarity 


22 Doctors' org. 24 Come -halt 


·----·~-·-·-.c-.---·•····---------------... 
Affl£5AVC£« 

ACROSS 30 Actress 58 Where 1 Bonymeat Locke and Asmara is 6 Campus others 62 Cockney 
letters 32 Praiseful residence 10 Trail re­· orations 63 Swimming lentlessly 35 Radames' clumsily 
13 Runoff love 66 Shaw's to Gretna 36 Coolidge monogram Green 39 Religious 67 Eye-popper 
14 Pahlavi truths 68 Designer and others 41 Inferior Oscar 16 Three­song dela­match 43 Spur(on) 69 Family girl 
17 Act showy 44 Harvest 70 Strays · 19 Leggy limb 46 Town in 71 Glacial 20 Marine Nebraska ridge 
plant 47 Fuel gases 21 Operative 50 Greek DOWN 23 Encourage letters 1 OldWorld 26 Balmy 51 Assistant lizard 27 Manufac­53 Armaments 2 Hint 
tured 56 Discoed 3 List ol persons 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 4 Maxim 5 Type 6 Escorts 7 Guevara 8 Young boy 9 "You're 

nothing 
but-" 10 Hardtack 11 -fours 
(creeping) 12 Played at Vegas 15 Operating MDs: abbr. 18 Afternoon affair 
"Refrigerators. 
dorm room size 
students rates· 
CALL 
TAYLOR 
RENTAL 
277-2190 
1427N. Ironwood 
.J 
25 City in Oklahoma 

The Daily Crossword 
27 Iranian of old 28 Sleep like­29 Stubborn 
quality 31 Fury 33 Apiece 34 Movie title 37 Ms Motto 38 Supports 40 Nary­
(none) 42 Bridge frameworks 45 Shadeof 
green 48 Gumshoe 49 Harpoons 51 Lead -life 52 Metrical 
feet 54 Calif. fort 55 Koi­
(Hebrew prayer) 57-,o, once 59 Skating :;urface 60 Heraldic 
term 61 Gelatin 64 Him:lt. 65 F.nclosure All Rights Reserved 

Michael Molinelli 

Olarles &hulz 

WHEN L{OU'RE FEELING LOW NOHHN6 C~EERS I(OU UP ' LIKE A FEW ROUNDS OF 

--~­


..... -. _...._......_..._.--._,._.,_____________...,. 
Hiini<Jhta of<!Tolumhu.a FORMATION and KNIGHTHOOD 
Degrees will be held : SUNDAY, OCT. 5 at 
K. of C. Hall 12: 30pm 
All members who have taken only the Admission ~gree 
ACKET AND TIE REQUESTED· 

-----~----­
-~­

Friday,.October 3, 1980 -page 14 
SMC spikers host triangular 

by Mark Hannuksela Sports Writer 
Following .three OJ?ening sea­son losses, the Satfit Mary's ~ College volleyball tea~ ~ill take' a three game wmmng streak into tommorow morn­ing's triangular__match with Hanover College and Indiana State's junior varsity unit. Ac­tion is slated to begin at 11 
a.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
To this point, second year coach Erin Murphy has been quite pleased wtth her team's performance., 
"We have show ourselves to be a very talented team so far," said Murphy. "We have four freshmen and one transfer student that have done an excellent job for us, and "have really added a lot to the team. We also are returning a lot of experienced players from last year's squad, and I think this combination gives us a more • talented team than last year.'' 
''For some reason though, we have yet to begin playing up to our potential,·: Murphy added. "We are JUSt now startif!K to put it t~ether. I'm 
SUNDAY MASSES 

[311'
AT SACRED HEART CHURCH 

campus
miniStry
5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C. S.C. 9:00a.m. Sunday Rev. Bernie Gaudreau 
10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. Peter Rocca, C. S.C. 
12:15 p.m: Sunday 

7:15 p.m. Vespers Rev. Peter Rocca, C. S.C. 
DISCOVER
n&niqhta of <!Jolumbutt 
presents: · 

SOUTHOLD­DANCE THEATER Saturday at 8 p.m. Century Center 
A Peter Sellers. Ursula Andress. Woody Allen

=Columboa; Directed by John Huston. Ken Hughes Downtown South Bend 
fri, sat & sun Oct. 3,4 & 5 

Tickets at the door: $5 for adults
7 ,9,11pm 

$2.50 for students
Kof Chall admission $1 -members free 

Belles  garnered  two  of their  
three  wins  in  a  triangular  
match  with  Purdue-Calumet  

and IUPU-Ft. Wayne. Saint Mary's won the first match in each· of those two contests by identical16-14 scores; yet were forced to play a third set because of temporary mental lapse in the second set. 
One of Murphy's coaching philosophies offers a corrective method for that, though. It's called PMA. 
"If there's one thing I stress in practice and in our matches, it's PMA-Positive Mental At­titude. Our players must not­and are not allowed to-to give negative feedback to them­selves, to each other, or to me. I want them to develop self­confidence, to believe in them­selves. I don't think they realize r.et just how good they can be. 
"Up to this point," Murphy said, ''we have more or less been the victims of bad luck. 
We have played well enough to win in ·most of our matches, but our record is only 3-3. As I said before though,-we seem to 
together right now, and a good performance really help ~ 
have their hands full this weekend, how­have to go against a tough Hanover Col­lege team that performed well in last year's state tournament, Division II power­State's junior varsity team. With the current winning streak 
however, the situation does not appear hope­less for Murphy's troops. ''These two teams will pro­
the toughest competition we have seen thus far," said Murphy, a graduate of Lewis University of Illinois. 
•'Indiana State will probably be pretty strong-they have al­ways had a good program. We saw Hanover last year at state's, and they looked pretty good also, so we're expecting some tough matches. 
Hopefully, though, the mom­entum we have built up in our last three wins, plus a little crowd support, will carry us through thts weekend. I think we wdl do well. " 
• • .Team 
(continued from page 16] 
more Rick Chryst with five hits 
each. For the fall season, 
Montangano is the leading hitter 
out of the regulars with a .407 
mark, followed by Chryst at .400 
and Szajko at . 3 33. 
"Rick hit the ball well and 
came through in the clutch. He's 
a great kid who's only going to 
get better," Gallo said. "Chryst is 
nothing flashy, but he's a ball 
player. Seniors Bob Bartlett and 
Mike Deasey have led the pitch­
ing staff this fall. Bartlett has a 2-0 
record and a 2.25 ERA, while 
Deasey has a 3.00 ERA. Gallo has 
used 13 pitchers so far in hopes 
of finding the right combination 
for this spring. 
The Irish swept Saturday's opponent Indiana State to open the fall campaign. 
They'll (Indiana State) want us bad," Gallo said. "They can hit the ball and we expect a tough game." 
Indiana State's shortstop Pete Pesko was the fifth leading hitter in the country last year with a .472 average. 
Bra_dley also belongs to the Missouri Valley Conference with Indiana State. "The Braves can hit and run and they have good pitching," Gallo said St. Louis competes in the Metro Conference. 
STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION presents:· 
the PUNK ROCK party 9-lam FRIDAY, OCTOBER stepan center 
FREE 
pop and munchies 


Student Union P~:·~;;sents: VAN LINES 
Your weekend transr orta~·~on off campus Tickets $1 ooISemester at ticket office in Lafortune 
-at dining halls this week 
* Look for route itinerary Services Commission 
-~ 

----------------------------------~~~----~ 
The Observer Friday,.October 3, 1980 -p~ge 1~ 
Baseball 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

W 'J..•st Pct. G 8 Y'New York 101 58 .635 Baltimore 9 8 61 . 61 6 3 Wast xKansasCity95 64 .597 V 
13 2

Oakland 8 2 7 8 . 51 3 x ~llnched'divlslon title y Clinched tie for division title 
Ynterday's Games Chlcaqo 9, Oakland 4 Minnesota 6, Texas 3A 1st 11ame Minnesota at Texas, znd game Boston 4, Toronto 1 New York 3, Detroit 2 Kans.a:; City 6, Seattle 2 nnlv Qames scheduled 
NATIONAL LEAGUE W East 

Montreal  89  L 70  Pet. 56 0  GB  
Philadelphia  89  7o :56 o  
Wast  
Houston  9 2  6 7  .57 9  
Los Angeles  89  69  .563  2V2  

Yesterday's Games Philadelphia 4, Chicago 2 Houston 3, Atlanta 2 Los Angeles at San Francisco, (n) Only games scheduled 
• Ali 

[continued from PaRe 161 
seconds of the round, Holmes 
delivered seven unanswered 
blows as Ali stood helplessly in 
his own corner. This round was 
scored for Holmes. 
Through the ninth and tenth rounds, Ali was in serious trouble. His left eye swollen and his hands at his sides, Ali could not throw a single punch. Somehow, Ali remained on his feet, though, despite Holmes' thundering straight left hands. Ali came closest to hitting the canvas during a terrible Holmes attack through the last minute of the ninth round. 
The final moments found Ali slumped in his corner, unable to continue while Holmes wept with a unique display of joy and sadness over the victory against a man he had once sparred for and idolized. 
Holmes' record grew to a per-feet 36-0. In pparently the last fight of his 56-4 career, Ali earned a record $8 million scarcely having thrown a punch and failing to finish a bout for the first time ever. 
Sports Briefs 
Sugar Ray,.Duran schedule rematch 
World Boxing Council wealterweight champion Roberto Duranand the man he beat to earn the title, Sugar Ray Leonard,announced their much-anticipated rematch last night prior to the Muhammad Ali-Larry Holmes heavyweight bout. 
Duran stripped Leonard of the championship onJune 20 in Montreal. The Panamanian took the 15-round unanimous decision which', until last night's Ali-Holmes clash, had been the richest fight in boxing history, tagged at nearly $30 million. 
Leonard, a native of Palmer Park, Md., near Washington, D.C.,has won each ofhis other professional fights and owns a 2 1/2-year career ledger of27-l 
Disser seeks rule revision suggestions 
Any off-campus student having suggestions for rule revisions of interhall competitive rules please submit them to Tom Di&Ser, off-campus commissioner, at 277-8730 by Tuesday, October 7 at 6 p.m. 
Lacrosse team begins practice Sunday 
Lacrosse practice will begin Sunday, October 5 at 1 p.m at Stepan Center. Practice is for anyone wishing -to play in the annual alumni game. For further information contact Rich O'Leary at 4563. 
lnterhall office extends golf tournament reports 
The deadline for reporting swres in the interhall golf tournament has been extended to Monday October 6th at 5 
p.m. Please return all scorecards to the interhall office at the ACC. 
' 
Jogathon to benefit Fun and Learn Program 
The second annual jogathon for the benefit of the F.un an,d Learn Program, operating under the campus Cht!dren s Dispensary, commences SundayOctober 5that2 p.m. at the~t. Mary's Angela Athletic Facility. Joggers are encouraged ~o ptck up pledge sheets at the Angela Facility as soon as pos~tble. 

~ 
® 
presents 
"INSTANT REPLAY" 


~ featuring air-hockey for your electronic entertainment A 
Let's JAM! The NDSU Presents COUNTRY ROCK JAM Nov. 1 Stepan Center Five Bands Including The VASSAR CLEMENTS BAND and JOHN HALL of Orleans STUDENT TICKET LOTTERY: Sunday, Oct. 5, 7 p.m. LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
Tickets $4 each. General Admission. Bring your ticket money with you. Limit four (4) tickets per person. Payable by cash or check. Also on sale, Chicken Barbecue tickets at $3.50 each. 
The Best in Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00 P.M. Closed Sundays & Ho(idays 
open 7 days 
\ 
1101 So. Bend Avenue. 
. 

ACROSS FROM CORBY'S 
\ 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m.• two dars prior to the issue in which the ad Is run. The Observer office wil accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classifieds must be pre·paid, either In person or through the mail.
Classifieds 
Need RIDERS from BOSTON TO NO FOR SALE: 40-funcflon colculator, Need GA or student tickets for ARMY SOPHOMORE TAILGATER "-T MSU. Rick Thomaa, Dave Rathgeber, andafter OCT. BREAK CALL TONY 1156 good condition, Including trig, log

NOTICES game, or 1 CAN'T go homel Call Sue LOOK FOR THE POLE FLYING THE IRISH Turtle and the rest of the' great
and anti-log functions. $20. 277· 

4349 SMC. FLAG AND SOPHOMORE T·SHIRT ON Grace Hall football team -GoodWANTED: 1977 THE DOME yearbook. 
3997, Jim. INTRAMURAL FIELD. All SOPHOMORES luck on your game Sunday, ahow
My brother lost his In fire. Call Paul Riehle at 6111 or 232·1545. 

INVITED TO JOIN THE FUNII them who Is #1. Goose FOR SALE: one pair Spaulding 
Need three tickets for the Miami 

CONTACT LENS WEARERS. Save on game. Call Susan at 277-459B 
brand name hard or soft lens Fiberglass skis, very good condition, WALSH SOCCER, FIRE UPI KICK THE Lebouef: Slide out of any beanbag
RIDE NEEDED TO PITTSBURGH FOR 

supplies. Send for free Illustrated Saloman bindings, travel case. BEEP OUT OF BP. SUNDAY, 4:15PM. BE chairs? Hope your 2111 was one to
OCTOBER BREAK. CAN LEAVE FRIDAY Need 1 student Miami ticket. Call 

catalo~. Contact Lens Supplies, $100. 277-3997, Jim. READYIII COACH 1 & 2 remember -or maybe to forget?
AFTERNOON. CALL PATTY (SMC) 4108 1284Box 74 3, Phoenlz. Az. 85011. Love, "The Row'' 
NEED 5 MIAMI GA'S, PREFERABLY AS M-IAMI GAME -4 STUDENT TICKETS
OVE RSiiAS JOBS: Summer/year Needed: A ride to and from the I
MANY TOGETHER AS POSSIBLE. CALL CAVANAUGH NEEDED CALL 7963 or 8991round Europe, S.Amer.. Australia, Philo.. South Jersey area for Oct. 
Doesn't the bar, fireplace and

Alia. All fields $500..$1200 monthly. TICKETS JIM 277·3575
break. Call Beth Holloway at 4527. HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY, DANNY. YOU
paint-job look .greot?l? The Hall would like to thank the following tor

Expense• paid. Sightseeing. Free . 
ARE OUR PRIDE AND JOY, AND WE
Info. Write: IJC, Box 52-IN 4, Corona Des~erotely Need Two GA Tickets needed alx Alabama tlckela, will LOVE YOU.
their hard work on a job well done.

Del Mar, CA.92625. tor loml Game. Call Liz at 277· I will trade one Michigan Stole pay huge billa, call Joe 1728 MOM AND DAD
Mark WIHe, Tim Hipskind, Greg0482 ticket for one student Air Force
-
Hansen; PJ, Gary Sieber, llrlan 

ticket. Call Tim at 8706. Tall blonde needs just one Alabama CAVANAUGH THANKS YOU
Frldllngton, Ted Corcoran. Rebel
HELPII need a ride FROM Mlnneo~lls 

tic. Call Jomy 8113. TOM DOWD
to NO at the end of break. Will s are Ahearne, Leo Desroslera, Bear 

FOR A JOB WELL DONE
driving and expenses. Call1901. Need four Miami GA llx. Call Stan Teufel, Paul Corron, Damian ON THE
1942 PARTY·PARTY·PARTY Maraholl, Pat McMonly, Narf Solis

LOST/FOUND 
CAVANAUGH OLYMPICS!
College Students: Earn while you with the$$$ you get from selling Rah-Rah II Riccardi, Beef Bricker, . 1 learn. Hours flexible. Call 291-1661 me your Miami or Army GA or Max ShorkeY, Bob Byrnes, Dana 
We're off io MSUI NO's favorite 
for Interview. Stalcup, Jim Leous.... and all those

Need 2 Miami GA's call Dan 1621 student llx. Give Crash a buzz at ~ch bums; John McGrath, and I 
LOST: GOLD ROSiiBUD CHARM • othera whose names we've lost In 
233-6649. ll)lpn "no doz'' Ver Berkmoes are off
BROKEN OFF FROM RING. LOST those brain cells the beer washed I
NEED RIDE TO CHI<iAGO O'HARE FOR for a weekend of debouchered
SATURDAY EITHER AT GAME OR IN MUST HAVE 4 ARMY G.A. TICKETSII EXBE owoyl 1
BREAK. CAll MARY FRAN (7992). pillaging. Look for us In the bora,
CALL JIM 277·11862FI!ONT OF SENIOR BAR. REWARD. 

you can buy us dtlnkl. Moose 1
CALL 7969. NEEDED: 2 GA Miami tlx. Call Mike
NEED RIDE TO HOUSTON FOR OCT. ownera, beware of rusflera...
Helpl Need many GA MIAMI tlx. 8714. IBREAK CALL JOHN 3436
LOST: SMC clan rln~ loa! Saturday Cathy 7927 HEY DEB THIS IS THE PERSONAl I
(9·20) In LeMons all. Engraving Mlch~on Stole convoy-con'I PROMISED. HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND 
l

reads: TAG BA '81. Please contact walt for he funl
Need rldera to Warren-Youngstown Need 2 or moreGA tlx for any home RONES
Teresa at 4·1·4711. 
arNE Ohio area for break. Will leave game. Eileen, 5409 SMC. 
Teresle -happy 22nd birthday, 10 
l

after lhe Army game. Call Jon at GIRL {GAL) FROM CV, Appreciate
Lost: Car keys on Tony's Shoe Repair sorryyou can't come along, I'll miss 
#1 key chain about 5 keyalf found 1185. Need 5 llx for Miami game and 3 fix youI what you're gelling tonight 'cause for Air Force. Call e485. after thla weekend you'll be shelling
call Theresa Power 232·62911 -Belhle 
out the calhllll Yeah Buddylll Loaf: Maroon sweatjacket a. a set of Need any 4 fix for Army game. Call PERSONALS 
l
JOhn the ·Bartender,
kr(l behind the ACC on 9/30. If Marilyn Broderick, happy belated
11630.

FOR SALE Hope your birthday 11 as fun ass-·1
found. please call Shelly (67e3). blrlhdoyl Beth
wiLL. DO TYPING-:-NEAT, ACCURATE. ~ 
Love,

Need two student or G.A. fix for EXPERIENCED. REASONABLE RATES. HollywoodCALL: 2117·5162.
WANTED 
Ausefte FOR SALE: 1975 AMC HORNET, Miami-Pleeeaaselll Call Kathy Happy Birthday II Youllnolly mode
289·5026.

52,000 MILES, STANDARD, RADIO, NEW JERSiiY CLUB BUS IS NOW the big 20. Have a great day you nNTED GLASS, EXCELLENT CONDmON fish I Dear Bug-man, You can tell me
TAKING RESiiRVATIONS FOR FALL

INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS hospital horror stories anyltmel
AND MILEAGE, STEEL·BELTED RADIALS Need 8 (Ill) student or G.A. llx tor Your ROOmie,

RINGS. Men's $35 • $115 and up. Free BREAK. CALL CHRIS AT 4479 OR KEVIN Much love, The Fly Lady house calla. 255·2402. 
AND SNOWS. 277·3997, JIM. Miami. Call Cathy 6141 AT 7687 FOR MORE INFO. Uftle Goose 
~ 
. 


~~--~~----------··--··~-----­

Iri soccer 
The Indiana difference 
BLOOMINGTON-Throw away any first im­pressions you may have harbored when the news of Indiana's 4-0 victory over the Fighting Irish soccer team hit the media waves. 
This was no replay of the tiasco in St. Louis in the merciless hands of the nationally ranked Billikens. This was no massacre and certainly no disclaimer to Notre Dame's lofty 9-2 record. 
It was merely another benchmark for the Irish in their ongoing climb from obscurity. The ex­perience was educational in many ways and the <Lfternoon with the #3-ranked Hoosiers gave Rich Hunter a brief moment of satisfaction. 
''I'm pleased with the way we played," Hunter repeated numerous times in the hours following the match. "For the most part, we played to the leYel of our ability. They're (.Indiana) just better than we are." 
In thtee contests against the powerful Hoosiers during the last three years, Notre Dame, each season, has shown marked improvement from their previous attempts to upset their downstate rivals. · 
"Their level of ability is increasing every year," said Indiana coach 1erry Yeagle1. of the Irish last Sunday after the final horn. 'This year, they exhibited much better ball control ana they had more time of possession." 
Unlike last season's game here on Cartier Field, the Hoosiers did not "live" on the Notre Dame's half of the turf. In fact,-the Irish came perilously close on more than one occasion to denting what had been, for most of the fall campaign, an impregnable Indiana net. 
"If that ball had gone in near the end of the first half," said Yeagley ofa Kevin L6vejoy cross which skittered right across the goal line, "it really could have been a different game." 
Perhaps a 2-1 or 3-1 game would have seemed more pleasant from a Notre Dame point of view Goe Ciuni's header in the second half that was somehow denied by the crossbar above the Hoosier net would· have made such hypothetical results a reality), but the score really wasn't the 

,I 
issue. 

I 
"Notre Dame just doesn't have the quality man-· for-man that we have," said Yeagley, "But they have worked so hard and as you could see today, they were definitely capable of putting on a good show. For a team that doesn't have any scholar­s~ips, they certainly made us work for what we 
Gary 
Grassey 
got." 
The applause extended down through the ranks of Yeagley's players as well. "I'd have to say that they've improved at least 200 percent since we played them here two years ago," said standout Hoosier fullback Tim Walsh. "A guy like Kevin Lovejoy could play for any team in the country. We geared our whole defense today toward stopping him because in the air, he's as good as they come." 
There were no distressing tones from the mouth of Rich Hunter on thjs trip back to South Bend either. "We'll play them again next year," he said leaving no one with the impression an attempt to downgrade the schedule will be made. "We'll give it one more try." • 
The lessons leatned in Bloomington, as Hunter summed up, were threefold. "We found out, of course, that if we make a mistake against a team like Indiana, they'll score," 
· he said. "I also feel that we can play with a team of their caliber. We'll never beat an Indiana by just outplaying them, but I think we could upset them if everyone played to their potential." And lastly, the words of confidence that were heard from the coaching staff to the very last man on the bench. "I believe we can win the rest ofour games," said Hunter. You won't find any heads hanging on this Irish team. CORNER KICKS-Notre Dame travels to Michigan State (4-1) this afternoon in the featured game of the week for the Great Lakes Region ... Sunday brings an afternoon in Milwaukee with the tough Marquette Warriors(4-4) ... the Irish rank seventh in the region following their 6-1 win over Loyola-Chicago on Tuesday ... Sami Kahale leads the Irish in goals (eight) and total points (ten) ... Lovejoy has seven goals and eight points ... Ciuni has three goals and four assists for seven points and Mike Sullivan leads in assists with five. 

r I 
Harriers sp~sor ND Invitational

I 
I 
by Matt Huffman

I 
Sports Writer

I 
The Twenty-Fifth Annual

t 
University of Notre Dame Cross Country Invitational be­gins today at 2 p.m. at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
This year's race will feature three races. The college teams will constitute Blue and Gold division races, with an Open division race slated to follow. The Blue division, Gold clivi­sion and Open division races will starts a 2. 3 and 4 p.m., respectively. Notre Dame will compete in the Blue division. 
As is the custom for the lnvitiational-the country's top flight teams will run this year. The best of these will include: Auburn, Indiana, Michigan, Florida and Illinois State. All these teams are ra.nked in the national top twenty for long distance running squads. The above Jowerhouses will be feature in the Blue division. 
The Gold division will fea­1ure smaller schools or schools rhat did not compete in last vear's race. Featured in the Gold division will be squads t'rom Ohio State, DePaul and D~troit. _ 
.\otre Dame coach Joe Piane is k·nking for another success­ful mvitational. 
'·We've got some top teams again this year, and there is no 


reason that we won't have the kind of top quality event that we've had in the past." 
Listed as poss1ble favorites to r:mtnrf" inrlivi<ln<ll hN'"r!' 
~ 
.,... •-• ~ t 
according to Piane are Jim Spivey of Indiana University, Dan Heikkinen of the Univer­sity of Michigan and John Tuttle of Auburn-all in the Blue division. Gold division favorites include Gordon San­ders of Hillsdale College, and Lyle Braund of Ohio State. 
The Open dhrision will con­sist of runners wh may have not competed in the Blue or Gold races for the various college teams. Also included in this division will be club run­ners. Among these club run­ners will be former University of Wisconsin star Jim Stintzi. Stintzi, along with brothers Steve and John, will be com­peting for the Wisconsin Track Club. 
The Notre Dame squad will consist of the same members who took second in last week's National Catholic Invitational Meet, with the exception of Tony Hatherly. The injured junior will be replace by senior John Riely. 
In addition to Riely, the squad will consist of co­captains and seniors Chuck 
. Aragon and John Filosa, soph­omore Carl Bicicchi and fresh­man Ralph Caron, Andy Dillon, and Tim Novak. 
''I would be very happy if we 
-placed in the top third of our field," Piane said. "We've felt the effects of injuries already this season, and that should hamper our performance some­what." In addition to Riely, top nlf'lflPr Pat ~ul!ivap ha~ al~(l 
• ~ """'• ­
~een bogged down with injur­Ies. 
"I would probably choose Michigan-if anybody-to win Friday," Piane said. 
Cross country fans are re­minded that the starting line for the five mile race is on the far side of the golf course adjarent to the Pangborn Hall gate. 

Gene Smith wzll coach the Irish ]V squad in a rematch against the Michigan State Spartans on Sunday. The host MSU defeated Notre Dame 6-3 last week on Irish turf 
Baseball team journeys to Bradley for tournament 
by Dave Irwin Sports Writer 

The ;'OJtre Dame baseball team will compete in the four­team Bradley University Tour­nament this weekend in Peoria, Ill. The Irish face Indiana State Saturday at 3, Bradley at 8:30 and St. Louis University Sunday at 
12:30. The winner of the round­robin tournament will be the team with the best record. 
The Irish split last weekend with Spring Arbor College and lost a doubleheader to Lewis University to drop their record to 5-3. Notre Dame sports a .303 team batting average and a 3.63 ERA, but have showed some weaknesses. 
"Our mental (situational) hit­ting was totally lacking and we justdidn'thave the timely hitting (last weekend)," head coach Larry Gallo said. "The team seems anxious at the plate. We need to work the count and take a lot of pitches." 
The Irish got a combined shutout from sophomore Steve Whitmyer and freshman Bob Hickey against Spring Arbor, but lost two games last weekend in the late innings when relief pitching failed. 
"Pitching was sporadic to say the least. The walks really hurt us," Gallo said. "The perfor­mances ofWhitmyer and Hickey were the bright spot as far as pitching V{aS concerned." The Irish have also showed poor baserunning skills so far. At least five Irish runners have been picked off, another called out after rounding second too far, and two runners who ran through third base coach Ray Lenyich's hold sign, only to be thrown out at the plate, and the other at third while trying to scramble back. 
The Irish were led last week­end by senior Jim Montagano, junior Dan Szajko and sopho­
[continued on page 141 

Ali reaches the end ofthe road 
by Gary Grassey Sports Wr#er 
Editor's note: This fight was o~ served and scored via the live closed circuit transmission from Las Vegas at the Morris Civic Audtforium in South Bend. 
Muhammad Ali failed in his bid to become the unprecedented four-time heavyweight cham­pion of the the world when he failed to answer the bell for the 11th round in his title match with Larry Holme.s at Caesars Palace. 
The title defense for Holmes was his eighth straight and established a new-record for consecutive knockouts by a reigning heavyweight champion. An estimated two billion people viewed the match around the world. 
The former champion, attired in his usual white trunks with black trim, was never a match for Holmes, seven years the 38-year old challenger's junior. 
Tn  :m  in!!lnrif'us  '!nd  eiT'­ 
- 
I  - - •  - 
..  


barrassing end to the career that has spanned three decades, Ali failed to deliver "the second miracle" he had promised his loyal legions of supporters when cornerman Angelo Dundee ask­ed referee Richard Green to stop the bout. 
Ali was the first to enter the ring, delighting the partisan crowd with his dancing exhibi­tion. Holmes followed with almost stoical seriousness etched on his face. 
The first round began slowly as Ali clowned and Holmes attempted .to score with o­ccasional jabs, eventually win­ing the round easily as the former champ failed to deliver a punch. 
In the second round, again, Ali was content to play possum. He taunted Holmes while slipping and covering most of the un­beaten titlist's assaults. 
Holmes delivered the first 
combinations of the fight in the 
third round. Ali responded near 
•1-:c end of the ses~ion with " n<~ir 
--.-, 
ofright hand leads, but the round belonged to Holmes. 
Ali's psychological war re­mained on display throughout the fourth round. While Holme~ began to find the range with his left jab, Ali chided the champion constantly, but continued to cover and throw no punches. 
In the fifth round, Ali brought the crowd to life as he began to dance. 
Holmes' lead widened in the sixth round. Ali was made to move backwards and found him­self beaten to the punch on each of the rare occasions he tried to deliver. ­
The seventh was Ali's best round. Showing his dancing form of years past, Ali fought off his toes and on the move for most of the three minutes. Jabbing and weaving, Ali worked the peri­meter, but Holmes' counter punches began to slow the challenger down. In the final 
[continued on page 15] 
: 









