...for openers -page 3 

VOL XV, NO. 11 an independem student newspaper serving norre dame and saint mary's SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1980 
Who will start? 
Today's Quarterback Derby 
kY Beth Huffman Sports Editor 
One thing of which Purdue 
coach Jim Young was positive 
weeks before today's 52nd 
meeting of the Boilermakers 
and Irish was his starting 
quarterback, Heisman Trophy 
hopeful Mark Herrmann. 
··r think you're better off to 
have an established quarter­
back," said Young. 
One thing Notre Dame coach 
Dan Devine was unsure of 
weeks prior to this clash was 
who his starting general would 
be. 
"We don't think it's any big deal that we're not announcing who our quarterback is right now," Devine said. "We've got · four or five guys who can play." 
Likely candidates for the job 
include Mike Courey, Tim 
Koegel, the now-injured Greg 
Knafelc, and freshmen Blair 
Kiel and Scott Grooms. But time, chance and luck (or fate) often turn the tables. 
One thing the retiring Devine says he has been pos­itive of for days is who his starting quarterback will be. But he isn't telling. Informed sources indicate that Courey will get the nod. 
But days befort~ this after­noon's contest, Young became unsure of his starting quarter­back. 
Herrmann, the celebrated Boiler with an arm more precious than the Purdue "Golden Girl'' tradition, suf­fered a sprained right thumb in a practice session on Tuesday. The 6-5, 194-pounder from Carmel, Ind., the key to the experienced and explosive Purdue offense, was listed as "questionable" according to a spokesman for the university 

yesterday. Herrmann has not 
been throwing in practice, and 
Purdue trainers consider the 
injury an hour-to-hour, day-to­
day problem. 
Of course, Jim Young could just be ''playing games" with Dan Devine. Could Young be fighting fire with fire? 
''I don't know whether it will hurt or help Purdue to know (the qul:lrterback). It didn't help us last year against Michigan to have to wait until the first snao to find out who 
they were ·going to play," Devine said. "As long as it's not illegal, we're going to do any­thing we can to win. Ho~efully 
Purdue will have to spend some time preparing for di~ferent types of quarterbacks, plus a punter !,Kiel) who can throw the ball and run it. 
(continued on p. 7) 

A home for books 
IUSB considers anew library location 
SOUTH Hl~ND, Ind. (AP)-IU purchased the computer Vanmele said. 
The Indiana University Board center alon~ with other Asso­Working with Vanmele are of Trustees· is considering po­ciates property a few years ago. Paul H. Henderson, presidenttential locations for a new library Associates was to continue oc­and chief executive of the at Indiana University at South cupying the computer center National bank of South Bend, Bend as part of continued ne­until January 1982 when its lease Judd Leighton, director of Gulf gotiations with the Associates with IUSB runs out. & Western Industries, and 
Corp. over who will occupy the RichardT. Vanmele, president Franklin Schurz Jr., editor and firm's computer center here. ofBath-Vanmele Associates, said publisher of the South Bend Plans for a possible new library Friday that he and three other Tribune. 
(continued on p. 2)
building, drafted by Cole and businessmen have paid for Associates of South Bend, were professional sketches of poten­financed neither by IUSB or by tial site plans. Associates, but by four South The group also has kept 

South Bendpreparesfor deluge
Bend businessmen who have "intense continuous contact" been working to keep talks with both parties to make sure by Mike O'Brien preceding the game, as there are last-minute 
between the two groups going. talks do not break down, 
checks on room assignments to be sure four As Notre Dame opens yet another football guests have not been placed in a double. Most season today, headlines will boldly proclaim the patrons arrive the evening before the game and 
name of the starting Irish quarterback, and the manager greets them with extra staff, which KeithJackson will rave about Tony Hunter.You he boasts provide the fastest possible check-in won't however, hear much about Dale service. He adds that during this whole week, 
Crimes/Violence anger

Off-campus students 
Whitstock and Don Pinckert, two ofthe behind­twelve-hour work davs are the norm. the-scenes and unsung heroes of a football. The work pays off; most of Whitstock's
by john Higgim ''I'm rattled quite a bit," Pat 
weekend. clientele return year after year to his hotel,
Cumming said. "I think the 

Dale Whitstock is the manager of the including a very regular guest, ABC-TV.
Off-campus students expres­South Bend Police Department 
"absolutely no vacancies" Ramada Inn. Don 
sed both anger and frustration has their priorities backwards. I Police Sergeant Don. Pinckert has been
Pinckert is a sergeant on the South Bend Police
in response to the robbery/ think this kind of problem can helping to regulate traffic to and from the
force. Both men have traditionally played key 
beating of two Notre Dame be prevented, but they spend stadium since 1974. His work begins two to
roles in making the weekend so smooth and
students in their Corby Street their time raiding the bars.'' three weeks before the· game, and involves
enjoyable.
home. "My roommate has a shot­arranging manpower and traffic direction.
ND's gridiron extravaganzas don't simply
Four males forced their way gun,'' one student, who wished Pinckert estimates that over one hundred
materialize from thin air. Sure there's the great
into the home of Steve Hoey to remain anonymous, said. officers are involved in directing traffic on the
game and super-excited fans. However, there are
and Rick V J.lencia. Both stu­"I'm not really worried any day of the game, half from the South Bend force
also 13,000 vehicles to. park somewhere and the 
dents were struck in the back of more than before," said one and the rest from state, county, and civil defense
fact that excited fans tend to prefer hotel rooms 
the head with the butt of a rifle female student. "What can we departments. All these are off-duty officers,
to sleeping in the street. This is where our
do? It gets worse every year.

wielded by one of the assail­since South Bend also maintains a regular police
heroes fit in. 
ants. The robbers took stereo That's no surprise." presence within the city itself. 
The South Bend Ramada Inn has 157 rooms,
equipment and other valuables Dean of Students James 
most of which are reserved one year prior to any South Bend controls the stadium traffic byworth close to $900. Roemer said that he has set up a given game. Whitstock relates that most of the way of one-way streets. Prior to the game,meeting between Mayor Roger
"That's just three blocks hotels in the area have a streamlined system to Angela, Edison, and Eddy Streets are all one-way 
from my house," Student Body Parent and other city officials 
handle the crowds. leading to the field. After the game concludes, President Paul Rhiele said. and University and student 
First, all reservations must be in writing, a officers reverse the directions to accomodateofficials in order to "see what·
"I'm just upset that there policy which eliminates any last-minute dis­outgoing vehicles. Pinckert says that, at most, 
can be done by both parties to

doesn't seem to be much that putes concerning how many rooms a guest has. drivers experience. a fifteen-minute wait and 
protect the students."

we can do about it. The Also required is an advanced deposit, to be sure, that the entire area is clear one hour after the
Students seem less than re­University administration tells 

according to Whitstock, that those who reserve game.
assured.

us that their hands are tied and the rooms are the ones who really want 'thetn. The veteran sergeant estimates that over six"They all talk while we get
to lock our doors," he contin­Finally, reservations are only accepted in a thousand dollars are spent each game for traffic 
robbed and beaten," Cumming

ed. "It did these guys a lot of package of Friday and Saturday night. control. Over the course of this year's five game j good to lock their doors." commented. Whitstock's work intensifies in the week home schedule, the cost will be $30 to $40,000. 
' 


News B=n==·e=ifJ.!:::s=====t:========·=Sa=tur=da=y,=Se=pt=em=ber=6,=1980::::::-p=ag=e=2 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Inside Saturday 
Some facts amidst thefrenzy
The Polish Communist Party replaced 
the ailing Edward Gierek as part leader in that country last night, placing Stanislaw Kania in his stead. The announcement was made at about 1:30 a.m. (7:30 p.m. EDT), following an emergency meeting at the party's downtown Warsaw headquarters. The session began after it was announced tha Gierek, who had been under fire for is handling ofthe wave of strikes that swept Poland over the past several weeks, had been hospitalized with heart trouble. Similar labor troubles brought down Gierek's predecessor Wladyslaw Gomulka in December 1970. 
Marine Robert Garwood. who 
presently faces court-martial charges of desertion and col­laborating with the enemy in Vietnam, was arrested yesterday by the Onslow County Sheriffs Department and charged on two counts of felony child abuse. Onslow County Magistrate Margaret Murrill said Garwood was charged with attempt to commit sexual abuse by force against a 7-year-old girl. He also was charged with committing and attempting to commit a sexual offense on the body of the girl. Mrs. Murrill said both alleged incidents occured on or about August 7. Garwood was released under $10,000 bond. 
Members of The Who. fearing for their 
safety, slipped into Cincinnati yesterday to give depositions in 
lawsuits stemming from their Dec. 3 concert that led to 11 
deaths in a stampede offans at Riverfront Stadium. Lead singer 
Roger Daltrey, guitarist Peter Townshend, bassist John 
bntwistle, and drummer KenneyJones flew in from England to 
meet with plaintiffs' lawyers wednesday afternoon and all day 
yesterday. The band took great pains to avoid publicity, even 
using a decoy limousine. An attorney for plaintiffs estimated 
that 14 suits have been filed seeking more than $100 million in 
damages against the band, coliseum and concert promoters. 
Commonwealth Edison of Chicago 
neglected to inform federal officials that between 300,000 and 400,000 gallons of water contaminated by radioactivity. is recorded as missing from its Dresden nuclear generatmg station, the Chicago Sun-Times said yesterday. Utility officials blame the water shortfall on faulty devices measuring the water supply, the newspaper said, and do not believe any water had leaked from the plant. Even if any leaked, they said, the radiation level would be below federal limits. But the newspaper said the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has not . ruled out a leak. "If you are losing water, that's bad," NRC project inspector Frank Reimann told the Sun-Times. "From what we know, there is between 300,000 and 400,000 gallons of water that apparently is missing. The question is whether this is a paper loss ofwhether there is an actual loss ofwater off-site." Unnamed sources quoted by the newspaper said the amount of contaminated water mysteriously disappearing from. the facility has been increasing for three years. 
Q il WaS diSCOVered in Europe's North Sea, according to two American oil companies. Texaco Inc. reported in White Plains, N.Y., Thursday that its subsidiary, Deutsche Texaco H.G., discovered oil four miles offshore and 60 miles northwest of Hamburg, West Germany. Robert 0. McCay, president of Texaco Europe, called test results "very encouraging." In Los Angeles, Union Oil Co. ofCalifornia said its Union Oil Co. of The Netherlands struck oil for the fourth time in the Dutch sector oftheNorthSea, 20 miles offshore and 54 miles northwest of Amsterdam. 
Partly sunnytoday with a 20 percent chanc7of thunderstorms. Highs m the low 80s. Thunderstorms endmg, then clearing tonight, with the lows in the low to mid 60s. Partly sunny with a c;:hance of thunderstorms tomorrow and highs in the low 80s. 
It seems as though we've hardly had enough time to unpack our bags and locate books for our classes, and already it's time to deal with the first football weekend. 
It was a little scary on 

Thursday evening, when I was continuing the never-ending South Bend continues to Bend police officials has been process of unpacking, and I plague Notre Dame and Saint scheduled for this Wednesday looked out my dorm window Mary's students living off cam­afternoon. Meanwhile, the sit­only to see an infiltration of pus. Various home break-ins uation continues to worsen. green-clad pedestrians. Must this past week resulted in eon the lighter side of have been alumni-probably thousands of dollars in losses things, we at The Observer would of the subway variety. Football for several off-campus students. like to take our hats offto Linda weekend? So soon? The most serious incident Batista, who with today's per­
I wasn't ready for this frenzy occurred Wednesday night, formances officially becomes on Thursday, and I'm not so when four gunmen robbed and the first woman drum major of sure I'm ready for it today. So physically, abused two Notre the Notre Dame marching I'd like to take a look at a couple Dame students in their off­band. She is a Saint Mary's of campus news items that campus home. junior from El Paso, Texas. probably will otherwise be A special meeting between Good luck, Linda. I just hope overlooked this weekend. Notre Dame administrators, . it's not too hot todav. 
. eCrirne in nearbv areas of ~tude!:!t leaders, a.nd s()llth eFor those of .you that thought it is out ofthe ordinary for The Observer to publish on Saturday, you're right. This issue is the first offour Saturday
...IUSB 
issues slated for the fall sem­ester. The Saturday publica­tions are merely intended to test a possible Saturday market.

(continued from p. 1) South Bend. ,The Associates' local payroll is eoh, ifyou're a betting man, you're supposed to put your
Their mission has been "to do an estimated $15 million an-whatever we can to keep people , nually and is "just as important as money on Mike Courey as 
Notre Dame's starting quarter­

interested in talking. Whenever building a big building -in one of the parties develops downtown South Bend," he said. back this afternoon. At least that's what our sports editor,
problems in negotiations we try He predicted a decision perhaps Beth Huffman, informs me.
to solve it," Vanmele said. in six months. 
The group began their in­volvement in March about the time the Associates made their 
CLASS OF '81 PRESENTS

interest known in maintaining the computer center. 
THE

Vanmele said the group sup­ports IUSB's strong drive for a better library, but italso wants to 


©£ill W£~00

see the Associates remain in 
Sunday, Sept. 7, 11 :30-3:00 at Saint Mary's College near Security. Donation $2.00

Erratutn 
Due to an error in the editing process, it was reported in 
RADIO DISTRIBUTING, INC. 

Thursday's Observer that the nightclub Vegetable Buddies 
AuauaiiJ-ldd warranty services for most

had closed on Wednesday. In 
mO)OT oronds. PIONEER, KENWOOD, JVC

fact, the club closed August 3. 
BOSE, TEAC and many more!. We service regardless of place of purchase. Fully equipped testing laboratory. 
HOURS 
8:00 am to 5:00 pm WEEKDAYS 1915 N. Bendix Dr.
8:30 am to 12 noon 
South BendSaturday 
287·2911 

Design Editor .......... Ryan Ver Berkmoes Asst. Design Ed. ..... Amy Murray bileen Murphy Copy EDitor ......... Lynn Daley Night TechniciaiJ. ,_...... Mi~ Jans News Editor ....... Tom]ack~n Features Layout . ..... Kate Farrell Sports Llayout ..... Beth Huffman ND Day Editor_.. . Bob Bernoskie Ad Design ....... Mike Holsinger Photographer........ Chris Salvino  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved.  







Features 
Saturday, tember 6, 1980-pase 3 
Let's go on with the show 


"An opening on Broadway can't compare to this," says Notre Dame Athletic Director Edward "Moose" Krause. "Our football opener is better than the celebration of Christmas, Easter or any holiday." 
Ah yes, the coming of autumn and the donning of helmets and pads­often referred to as the official be­ginning of the school year. Certainly a New York stage star would question Moose's claim, but nonetheless, Notre Dame's first home football weekend is the most active and most anticipated weekend of the academic year. 
The football season evokes a variety of emotions in people's minds and 
1 hearts. It is weekends of anticipation and excitement, of alumni and mem­ories, ofpartiesand rallies. But the first one-it's something a little special. 
For the players, it is a beginning and 
· an end. The season openeris the first of 11, and hopefully 12 games. Yet it also signals an end to the anxious anti­cipation, the sometimes tedious daily practice sessions which just two weeks ago were twice a .day, the countless team meetings and the cautious tackling of teammates as opposed to the real thing. Yes, much of this will continue through the season, but now the monotony will be broken each week or two. 
For the rest of the students, the 
I 
opener is-the event to which they geara 1 whole slew ofevents and activities. On 1 the Wednesday prior, there's the 
annual panty raid of the silk-seek.ing Notre Dame men scouring the six women's dorms on their campus and the five at St. Mary's. 
For the legi~ns ofgreen-clad alumni, this is the time to return and remember. "Brother, I hated this place. when I was here," belched one '72 grad yesterday, "but now you can't keep me away. It's great to pretend I'm a student again." 
For the freshmen, this is one weekend (make that one week) they probably will never forget. One Dillon Hall freshman said yesterday, "This 

has been one. unbelievable week ­
two days of studying and five days of 
partying -and I even managed a six 
on my E.q1il." 

On Thursday night, much of the · South Quad comes to life with the . annual Dillon Hall Pep Rally bol­
stering dorm and campus spirit. On 
Friday, the stereo speakers find their 
way into window bays blasting forth 
everything from "The Notre Dame 
Victory March" to "Rock Lobster." 

Contrary to common belief, football 
weekends (especially the first' one) 
aren't all fun and games for everyone. 
For administrators and stadium per­
sonnel, it's an amazingly hectic pace. 
Last-minute ticket arrangements, .pre­
game press conferences, post-game 
press conferences, catering to VIP's, clearing the cob webs from the press box and locker rooms -just part of the preparations. 

There are those who have been part of Notre Dame's opening football game for decades. Moose Krause's secretery, Eleanor Vanderhagen, has seen her share of Irish footbll games. "This is too early in the year to be doing this," she moaned about the early date for this season's start. But her frown quickly vanished. She must enjoy it if she's been doing it for 25 years. 
There have been some memorable openers over the years. All in all, the Irish own a lopsided 57-7-3 advantage in home openers, but that statistic has heen on the deeline in recent years. The last two times Notre Dame has kicked offthe season at home, it's been chalked up in the loss column. 
Upperclassmen should easily re­mmber the disheartening 3-0 loss to Missouri in Notre Dame's first title defense of1978. Thatgame was played in the sizzling South Bend sun and the temperature on the field soared to the 110-degree mark. The September 9 opening was then classified as the earliest ever for the Irish, but this year's clambake takes the cake not only for the host team, but for the Boiler. makers as well. 
In 1976, the Irish opened at home against Tony Dorsett and the soon-to­be national champion Pitt Panthers. National television cameras looked on as Dorsett and Company rolled over their hosts with wreckless abandon, 31-10. 
The last time the Irish managed a victory when they opened their season in Notre Dame Stadium, came back in 1973 when Ara Parseghian's squad clobbered hapless Northwestern, 44­
0. In fact, Notre Dame's last three home-opening victories came at the hands of the Wildcats. 
Ofcourse, this afternoon's game is a sellout, but it hasn't always been that way. The last time there was a seatto be had for an opening game in Notre Dame Stadium was in 1963, Hugh Devore's last season as head coach. The Irish opened against Wisconsin that year before .56,806 disappointed fans. The home team lost as the Badgers scored with just 1:07 to go to tke the 14-9 victory. 
Some of the old-timers can re­member the first game ever }J~ayed in the stadium. The year was 19 30, Knute Rockne's last season at the helm. In the season-opener, the Irish came from behind to defeat Southern Methodist, 20-14 before less than 15,000 fans. 

So today we begin again. Some 59,075 fans will be screaming, many students will be carousing, a few alumni will be crying, the band will be playing and hopefully, the Fighting Irish will be winning. 
Mike Ortman 

'Survival is the only glory in ~ar' 
The movie "The Big Red One" is a film that's at the right time and the right place. lt's a war film in the traditional sense. The Americans are portrayed as white-hatted, mother­loving good guys, while the enemy are shown as sinister, devious sorts, who probably entertain themselves by doing immoral things to Girl Scouts. 
"The Big Red One" is a movie from another age, made bv a filmmaker from another age. Samuel•Fuller-he was known as the king of"B" movies a decade ago-was responsible for a whole slew of hard-hitting, raw-edged melodramas like the previously men­tioned "The Steel Helmet", and "Merrill's Marauders". The past few years have seen Fuller inactive while he worked on a project he's planned for for a lifetime: a film documenting war solely from an infantryman's point of view. 
The film follows a quartet of young soldiers through their tour of duty. In this case their "tour" takes them from the beaches of North Africa, to sunny Sicily, on to bloody Omaha Beach, across Europe, and finally to 
tzechoslovakia Coincidentally, this exactly mirrors Fuller's own war ex­perience. The film's title comes from Fuller's wartime unit, the first infantry division, otherwise known as "The Big Red One". 
The principal characters you've seen before: a hog herder with hemorrhoids (Kelly Ward), a street-wise punk from the Bronx (Bobby Di Cicco), and the company sharpshooter who cannot kill (Mark Hamill). Heading the cast is grizzled veteran Lee Marvin in his best performance since his Oscar-winning dual role in "Cat Bellou". 
These men impress the viewer with their stark primitiveness. From the opening shot of the Sergeant on a ravaged W odd War I battlefield, to the final scenes of the still-warm ovens at Buchenwald, every old cliched melo­dramatic device is used to create superb effect. 
As an example, during the bloody Omaha beach scenes the camera focuses on the still-working watch belonging to a corpse, as it passes the minutes. The battle scenes have Panzers looming larger then life upon a pitifuUy defenseless infantry. 
With the current flap over draft regestration, the film's realistic and unglorified portrayal of the average foot soldier's life provides valuble insight-especially for those aged 19 or 20. The film transcends the normal one-dimensional image of the wise­cracking, heroic American G.l., and shows our principals living li~e in an emotional daze from one skirmish to the next. 

The characters insulate themselves from the stark reality of war by re­fusing to associate with the "replace­ments" (soldiers who replace those who are killed), because, in the words of Zab, "They came and died so fast; you couldn't know them." · 
The Germans are portrayed in a manner familiar to most viewers. Not only do they look like the Nazi thugs in 
"Casablanca" but they have all have the same charm of a moose in heat. 
The movie has many memorable scenes. For example, right after the Americans destroy a dia­bolical German ambush, a pregnant woman, who is suffering labor pains, appears. Thinking quickly, the troops clear out a tank ofcorpses, and deliver the infant inside the death-plagued tank shell. The troops restrain the helpless madame with rounds of machine gun ammunition. 
Further on, the company gets the assignment of liberating a Belgian loony farm from their German war­dens. As the troops blast the Nazis into hell, the assorted nuts calmly eat fruit loops and laugh at the violence. 

The film's most poignant scene, however, is saved for the end, when the principals liberate the horrible Nazi death camp at Buchenwald. Griff follows a sniper into an ominous 


Ryan Ver Berkmoes 

building with tall, still-puffing smoke­stacks. Finding a room filled with doors, he opens one to see the smoking remains of the last batch of victims. 
Stunned into a stupor Grif hears a sound from an adjoining oven and he peers inside to see his quarry. Grif overcomes all his restraints as he slowly and methodically empties his Ml rifle into the Nazi. 
Finally, the Sergeant finds a pitifully abused young]ewish boy. He attempts to restore the boy's will to live, only to have him die in his arms. 
As one leaves the theater, one is left with the feeling that they have justseen a movie made with care, a rarity these days. 
"The Big Red One" is doing sur­prisingly well at the box office to the surprise of the skeptics who said the public had outgrown Fuller's style of film. Fuller seems on his way. to becoming a cult figure of American film. 
,-------~ -~---~ ---
Ihe~~-====================================== 




Toda~===================Sa=tur=da=y=,Se=p=te=mb=er=6=-pa=ge=4 

The Daily Crossword 
Charles &hulz 
WELL, OLD FAIT~FUL BASEBALL GLOVE, OUR SEASON 15 OVER ... 


I GUESS I'LL PUT L{OU AWAL{ IN THE CLOSET UNTlL NEXT SPRlN6, AND 6lVE L{OU A 6000 REST... 



I KNOW WHAT'LL HAPPEN .. 
I'~~#~~~}~ ~~c~:E~ 
GO BACK TO SLEEP! 
Boxing 

fhere will be a mandatory meeting a 4:30 p.m. Monday in the Boxing Room of the ACC for all novice boxers interested (n the 1980-81 Bengal Bout program. 
59 Napery 26 Poison 60 Tennis name 27 Pointed 61 Times arch 62 Shut up 28 Unclothed 63 Garden 29 Crystal 
intruder ball people 64 High, in 30 Florida music city 31 Forearm 
DOWN bones 1 Russian sea 32 Alleviated 2 City in 37-silk 
ltalia (very 3 Protective smooth) ditch 38 Prepare 4 Oolong's for bed place 43 Dripping 5 Feedthe wet kitty 44 China, 6 Dislnte· Japan, etc. 
grates -45 Quieted 7 Tree 46 This:Sp. 8 Spanish 49 Large 
coin state: abbr. 9 Repair 50 Eagerly 
shoes expectant 10 Crooked 51 Sandlot 11 Simple group 13 Suitability 52 Poet's need 16 Zoo place 53 Pine 18 Mon-! 54 Dumb­19 Automotive 55 Using 
lemons speech 


It's here! 
The guide to Michiana dining and entertainment. 
Plus a lot more. 
Sunday at 5:45 
LaFortune Ballroon1 
must bring student 10 



TODAY 
ht Mi.chiana 
Pickitupat your dining hall. 

home 36 Ship 
8 Buggy weights 12 Covering 37 Bill ­14 He lived (Dickens 
905 Bibli· criminal) cal years 38 Family men 15 Fished for 39 Fight 
congers decision 17 Start of 40 Finished a verse 41 Nastase 
20 Lath frame· 42 Verse 
works continued 21 Intensify 47 Table scrap 22 Unused: Ger. 48 Inactive 23 Genevieve troops: 
or Marie abbr. 24 Verse 49 Seaport continued of Crete 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 






[continued from page 6] 
Harkenriders' the bset skilled freshman I've ever seen-a little Lovejoy-and Kevin's playing better than ever. We're going to be tough." 
Besides increasing the num­ber of forwards, Hunter also has altered their style of play. Co-captain Lovejoy, who could become Notre Dame's first soccer All-American explains. 
''In the past there were set positions. Wings would have to stay in their lanes; backs would have to stick to their assign: ments; everybody was entren­ched in his position. There was no freedom, no overlapping. But now we all have lots more freedom to move. We're encou­raged to use our imagination on offense. We're weaving, over­lapping, changing positions; even the backs are participating more. It adds a whole new dimension to our offense and should give us more open shots." 
More open shots may be just what the doctor ordered if the Irish aren't going to suffer through a frustrating season like last fall's. A year ago, the seven goalposts allowed its opponents across the midfield 
. . . Forwards 
line only three times and lost 1-0. It was a scene that was to be replayed all too many times for insh soccer enthusiasts, as Notre Dame lost seven of its ten setbacks by a single tally. However, Notre DAme oppon­ents need be more wary. 
Two weeks ago, Hunter re­leased his six forwards and new offensive strategy in a scrim­mage against Grace College. The result: a 13-0 massacre as each member of the sextet scored at least once. 
Now we know why Hunter wanted to keep things secret. 

The Observer Saturday, September 6 --page 5 

... Hoyer 
[continued/rom page 8] 
Hoyer has her sights set on 
Notre Dame's No. 1 singles po­
sition this fall, despite the fact 
that last year's top player, Cindy 
Schuster, returns for her final 
season. Schuster, however, 
managed only a 7-11 record in 1979, and Hoyer handily won a confrontation between the two during the team's pre-season intrasquad tournament. 
''I'd like to play No. 1, but I won't be disappointed .if I don't," she says. "The impor-· tant thing is for everybody on the team to do well, because th_is year, to get to nationals, we have to qualify as a team." 
It took Linda Hoyer just one season to prove she belongs among the nation's elite. Now she'll try to help her teammates prove they they belong there, too. 
I 
I 

ON ANY LARGE REGULAR PIZZA
I 

I OR ANX SIZE STUFFED PIZZA I 
I
I 

expires 9115/80 I
I SUNDAY 
I
I'MONDAY 
I
II and TUESDAYONLYwith this coupon at 
.I 
THE RAJHSKELLAR at I I 291-8311 SCOTTSDALE MALL ! 
·----------------­
t:antempararv arts 
• 
Student Players 

• 
Oountry Bock Jam 



• 
Isis Gallery eOollegiate Jazz restival 

•Senior 
Arts Festival 

• 
Student lilm Series 

• 
Ohicago Drama Seri'its 

• 
Dance ct Drama 


•Sophomore Literary restival. 
on Campus Series ...and more to be announced 
Notre Dame Student Union 
r 
~Special-Soccer Saturday, September 6, 1980 -page 6 


Goodandbad 
Hunter leads Irish through times 
by Gary Grassey Sports Writer 
There has never been a moment in 
the three-year lifespan of Rich 
Hunter's Notre Dame varsity soccer 
team when there wasn't a new peak to 
climb or valley to leave behind. 
The ups have taken form in the guise of record winning streaks and me­morable clashes filled with national prestige reminiscent of traditional Irish giant-killings past; the lows have appeared sporadically under the head­ing of inconsistencies and humbling defeats that represent the squad's inexperience as much as anything. 
But the program grows stronger every day. The unpolished crew of misfits that once performed the rites of bump and bruise soccer as a club team have crawled slowly through the ranks of the N.C.A.A.'s Division I to the point where they now prepare to field a skilled, organized, confident group of ballplayers and coaches ready to make their first serious run at a post-season playoff bid. 
They've done it without scholar­ships, grants-in-aid, or anything else that resembles the notion 'free ride', and they keep getting better. 
"You know of we had full scho­larship players like some of the other schools-we could field an awesome team," says head coach Rich Hunter, who in addition to his teaching and law practice, continues on as the only coach the Irish have ever known. "But right now, we're really the only minor sport (at Notre Dame) that has been able to move up through Division I with our kind ofschedule. We play the best and we have a schedule that rates with the football or basketball team." 
Eight common opponents with Indiana's Top Ten-rated Hoosiers, including a match down in Bloomington with the Big Red, and dates with St. Louis, Penn State, and perennial midwest powers give cre­dence to the belief that Notre Dame's three-year track record of 5 7-14-3 is not just a bundle of routs over the Manchesters, Valpos and Monmouths of the soccer world. 
"When I was in high school," recalls Steve Miller, one of two remaining players from the club days and now a first-year law student in his final season ofeligibility, "it was a dream come true even to see St. Louis play. They are to soccer what Notre Dame is to foot­ball." 
Don't worry about the Irish taking off on any nostalgia trips when they meet the Billikens, however, because as Hunter explains, "We've really never played badly in our big games. Our problem has been that we play to the level of our opposition. We could beat Indiana one day and turn around the next day and lose to a nobody." 
The inconsistencies and lapses in concentration caused Hunter, his staff and players nightmares in the 20-10-1 season of a year ago. 
"Last year was supposed to be our year," says co-captain Dannie McCurrie, an MBA student playing out liis last campaign. "Things just didn't work out. People got hurt, the goals didn't go in-it was just a disaster.'' 
As much as Rich Hunter pleaded and, sometimes, screamed at his play­ers to turn things around, 1979 never became more than a disappointment. But it was an important lesson at that. 
"We had the players last year," feels senior Mike Mai, Notre Dame's all­time assist leader, "But we were a tea;n that didn't believe in ourselves. We killed Cincinnati (last year's season opener) on the field, but we didn't beat t..~em. We had trouble concentrating. This year we have more quality players overall, much more depth." 
The reason for the improvement comes from two sources. 
"Rich has his head in the game a lot 
more,'' notes Miller. "He's relaxed and 
.more sure of himself as a coach." 
"The coaching now is so much 
better,'' says Mai. "We're doing more 
constructive drills, ourspring practices 
and off-season work mean something 
now. The guys have a great attitude 
about coming. back in shape and 
improving skills." ,. 
''I'v(l always been pleased with 'the 
players' dedication," says Hunter, '::Yho 
until 1977 had no experience w)'lat­
soever either as a soccer coadi or 
player. "I feel much more confident 
with my coaching now. I've always 
worked towards being good at what I 
do and I feel my knowledge of the 
game and the players' knowledge is 
much better. Things are done nor­
mally now that we used to have to stop 
and explain in practice." 
That second factor probably finds its 
roots in the team's club heritage. 
-"Three or four years ago, Rich really 
had to work when we first went varsity, 
because if he gave up there wouldn't 
have been a program," Miller recalls. 
"And all along those long van rides to 
distant cities solidified a lot of friend­
ships-between the players and 
Rich." 
"There was always a real closeness on 
the team," says co-captain Oliver 
Franklin, the final remnant from the 
days of club status, "Rich spent so 
much time and energy and a lot ofthat 
rubbed off on us." 
Assistant coach Tom van Meter tells 
a story about maybe the best example 
of dedication to the Irish soccer team. 
"A key guy here isJoe Ciuni," he says. 
"Joe has had to work so hard to where 
he's at right now (captain and starting 
halfback). We were kidding him the 
other day about how he's progressed 
from ballboy freshman year to captain 
senior year. But he's done it and 
without the skills of a lot of the other 
players. Just hard work." 
"In our first year ofvarsity, we really weren't that good," Ciuni says, "But we just ran every team into the ground. The last two years, we haven't had that attitude, but the skills have gotten so much better. I think maybe the ex­perience of last year is making us have the attitude we've got this vear." 
Just how rar attitude will take the Irish in 1980 is difficult to forecast, but Hunter and his troops do believe they can reach the N.C.A.A. tournament come November. They might even sneak past one of those Top Ten squads. 
"We may get beaten," Hunter predicts, "But those kids will know they were in the .game.'' 
As for the future of the program, however, Hunter can only guess. "I think the kids realize we have the potential to be a very good team. But the future lies on them, not the athletic department (scholarships). I per­sonally think it's unjust for the u­niversity to provide to one ur another minor sports and not the rest, but we can't think about that now. 
The Irish may be just two or three scholarships away from greatness, but right now they'd sure settle for damn good. 
And that's something they can be. Right now. 

Notre Dame vs. Cincinnati 
Seeking to avenge last year's season­opening defeat, the Notre Dame soccer team travels to Cincinnat:j for a return grudge match with the B~arcats Sunday at 2 p.m. (EDT). . Coach Rich Hunter, coming offa 20­10-1 recurd in 1979, fields a veteran starting lineup. All-time scorer Kevin Lovejoy teams with Ed O'Malley ;.ind Mario Manta at the forward slots: Co-

by Paul Partridge Sports Wrtter 
It was rumored that Rich Hunter, as 
.coach of Notre Dame's "other" foot­ball team, was acting on a precedent established by another coach in the athletic department and likewise was refusing to name his starting forwards for Notre Dame's soccer opener against Cincinnati. After all, Hunter is, among other things, a practicing at­torney and any good lawyer will tell you that one can't go wrong if he follows a presiding opinion. 
But, luckily for this feature, when Hunter heard that the verdict on the quarterback case would be out by the time this article was released, he capitulated and relinquished this year's attacking sextet. Grouped in two waves of three, the sixsome includes seniors Kevin Lovejoy and Mike Mai, juniors Sami Kahale and Ed O'Malley, sophomore Mario Manta and freshman Ken Harkenrider. 
Although only three of this group will start, all will log considerable playing time in Hunter's multiple­player shuttle system. Who plays when and where will depend upon whom the opponent is. Ifa playmaker is needed, Mai or Kahale will be inserted. If speed's the thing, Harkenrider will be summoned. If aggressiveness is called for, O'Malley's name will be heard. If big guns are requested, bring on Lovejoy and Manta. 
Hunter will try to make things work by taking advantage of the wide range ofsituations his forwards can adjust to. With six quality attackers, Hunter can use their diversity to field a potent front line under any condition. 
Things weren't always so rosy for Hunter. At the commencement of the '79 campaign, Notre Dame was ba­sically a four-forward team, and when O'Malley broke his leg in the first half of the first game, the Irish quickly became a three-forward team. And it's not that they did a bad job, for Lovejoy, Mai and Kahale finished one-two-three in scoring but it took them awhile to realize that the 1979 season would have to be salvaged sans Ed O'Malley. 
."Last year we went into the season with set forwards,'.' explains Kahale. "It was going to be Kevin, Ed and myself: We all knew each other's moves and were confident as a unit. Then t:d got hurt so early. That threw us off guard. Mentally we weren't prepared to deal with that and we questioned our ability to score." 
While the forwards were trying to adjust to their loss, Notre Dame was shutout. twice en route to a 1-3 start. 
This year• Hunter has insured the team against any losses. 
"There's no way one injury is going to shut us down this year," stresses the fourth year mentor. "We have six guys who are all pretty equal talent-wise and they\.;: shown they can adjust to work together. Their styles of play com­plement each other. And the offense now has the confidence to believe they'll score no matter who's hurt or who's in the game." 
O'Malley reiterates his coach's sen­timents. "We're playing with much more intensity this year. We feel like we have the talents to come back, like we're not going to lose. And we have so much talent up front. Teams think that they're going to be able to beat us by shutting down Lovejoy. Well, that's no longer true. Ifthey double team Kevin it'll just open things up for Sami and me or whoever else is out there. And all captain~ Joe Ciuni and Dannie McCurrie open with sophomore Steve Berry at the halfback posts. Sopho­more Mark Luetkehans is the up back, while Steve Miller, Phil Sweetser, and freshman Joe Holterman open as the fullbacks. Junior goalkeeper John Milligan returns in the nets. 
our  forwards  have shown they  can  
score.  Sami  plays  a  smart  game,  
[continued on page J]  

Cincinnati defeated the Irish 1-0 last year at Notre Dame on opening day. 




Catch the Fighting 
in The-c:lbseaer 
You don't have to a/lend Notre Dame to find out what is happening on campus. Just fill out the subscription form below, mail it along with remit­tance, and you can have The Observer mailed to your home. Published daily dun"ng the school week, The Obsenier will itiform you ofcampus and local news events, entertain you with daily editorials and features, aqd satisfy you with all ofthe up-to-date athletic news. 
You can receive The Observer for the remainder ofthe academic vearior only $20 ($I 7 ifmailed ajler September 
30). Or, ifyou are only illlerested in 
subscn"bing for the remainder ofthe semester, you only have to send $10($7 ajler September 30). So don't miss out 
on all the action. and subscribe now. 
It·--·-------------­
Make check pay1ble lo 
The Observer 

and mad Ia 
P.O. Box Q 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Name 
Address 
City State Zip 
0 Enclosed is $20 for remainder of academic year ($1 7 after Sep­tember 30). 
0 Enclosed is $1 0for remainder of fall semester ($7 after Septem­ber 30). 
All oubocrlptlono muot be pre·p•ld 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
f.ast  
w  L  Pel.  GB  
Philadelphia  72  61  .541  
Montereal  73  62  .541  
PIHsburgh  72  63  .533  
St. Louis  60  72  .455  11 'h  
New York  59  76  .437  14  
Chicago  51  81  .386  20'h  
West  
LOI Angeles  77  58  .570  
Houston  75  59  .560  1'h  
Cincinnati  73  61  .545  3'h  
Atlanta  69  65  .515  7'h  
San Francltco  66  69  .489  11  
San Diego  58  78  .426  19'h  

Yesterday's results Cincinnati 5, Chicago 3 Atlanta 7,PIHsburgh 4 St. louis 7, Houston 5 San Diego 4, New York 2 los Angeles 1, Philadelphia 0 Montreal 8, San Francisco 0 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
East 

w l .'ct. GB 
New York 83 51 .619 Baltimore 80 53 .602 1'h Boston 72 59 .550 9'h Detroit 71 62 .534 11'h Milwaukee 72 65 .526 12'h Cleveland 69 64 .519 13'h Toronto 56 78 .418 27 
West Kansas City 86 49 .637 Texas 67 67 .500 18'h oakland 66 70 .485 20'h Chicago 57 76 .429 28 Minnesota 58 78 .426 28'h California 81 .391 
33 SeaHie 85 .366 
36'h 
Yesterday's results Baltimore 8, Oakland 7 Seattle 4, Boston2 Chicago 3, Toronto 0 Kanaas City 2, Cleveland 1 Detolrt 1, Minnesota 0 New York 6, California 5, 10 Innings Texas 6, Milwaukee 5 
(continued/romp. 1) 
With Herrmann as a big "if", Young will have to turn his team over to the number two Boilermaker quarterback. Fres­hman Scott Campbell, a native of Hershey, Pa., is listed on depth charts as Herrmann's backup. But, the 6-0, 188 -pound rookie will have to summon intense courage, ta­lent and authority from within if he is to master a powerful Irish defense. 
Considered to be the strong point of the Notre Dame team, the defense is led by stalwarts Scott Zettek, Steve Cichy, Tom .Gibbons and Bob Crable. The 
!entire Irish squad has been preparing to "get Herrmann", and a possible replacement could end up eating turf in Notre Dame Stadium should the hyped defensemen crack the Purdue offensive line. 
Should Campbell have to take the snap, he will have seven experienced seniors on the Boiler offensive squad to guide him. The most notable seniors are Bart Burrell, John Macon and Dave Young. The HerrmannYoung tandem has paired for many scores, but Campbell might have to sub­stitute in that pair if Purdue hopes are to remain alive. 
Notre Dame leads the Irish­
Boiler series with a 31-18-2 
kontinued from page 8] 
Iworse when you drop it." 
Where as most football ma­
gazines place Young onto first 
team tight end spots a big sur­
prise came when Young was not 
Field hockey 
Under the direction of first­year coach Jan Galen, the Notre Dame women's field hockey team prepares to open its season today against Albion College on Cartier Field. Game time is set for 11:00 a.m. 
...Cooper 
{continued from page 8) 
spirit. I know my heart is right there on the field or on the bench for every game. I never miss a game on television or radio and, no matter what the score is, I never give up hope. 
:..'When we lose, I go into a state of shock. It's like a night mare-takes me two or three days to get over it. But, when we win, I'm the hapP.iest man in the world. I feel hke dancing and celebrating. It's the great­est!" 
Cooper spole at last night's pep rally, and don't be surpris­ed if you see (and hear) him playing the drums with the Notre Dame Marchin&,. Band this afternoon. When l:ie gets back to New York, he'll begin work on a project to petition his New York patrons to contribute to a scholarship fund for the University. 
"I got a lawyer who wants to help and we're gonna raise a million dollars for this place," he says earnestly. 
"That way; I'll be able to give back a small part of all the pride and happiness Notre Dame has given me." 
• • • Quarterback derby 
mark, but Purdue seems to thrive on the thought of de­feating the Irish at home. The Big Ten power has tallied the most wins ever over the Irish in Notre Dame Stadium with nine. 
The rivalry has mounted to one ofgrave intensity, with far­from-cordial comments com­mon of late. 
"We've felt that in the past Purdue has played us looking down their noses," said Devine to the Big Ten Skywriters on August 28. "I think our players resent that Purdue has always played us feeling they were bigger, stronger and better conditioned. We don't scare Purdue. They believe they have better folks than we do." 
What do the Irish players think about Purdue? 
"For some reason we've a­lways had trouble with Purdue. We usually play them at the beginning of the season and they've questioned our endur­ance, and whether we're in shape," defensive end Scott Zettick said to that same bunch of journalists. "But the only way we can answer that is on the field. I don't know about any particular players, but I think the feeling has been in the air that they've accused us ofbeing in poor condition." 
All head coach Young could say about those insinuations 
...Young 
named to Playboy's AI~America team. At the mention of it, Young bursts into laughter. 
"When it (Playboy) came out I went to the store to get some orange juice and I saw it on the rack and I got it," Young said jokingly. "When I got home I saw they didn't have any tight ends at all so I didn't feel too bad about it. But my first initial attitude was to throw it in the trash. But then I said the heck with it, it's just a magazine. They didn't even have us (Purdue) picked in the top 20 so' I knew something was wrong." 
What are Young's sentiments toward Notre Dame, a team he said he really enjoys playing 
against? "I don't have anything bad to say about them because they're a good ball club. They get a lot of good talent up there. It It's going to be a physical game. We're just going to go up there ready to play football," said Young. 

The Observer Saturday, september 6, 198~ 7 
I OPENING TONIGHT I ATTHENAZZ 
Saturday night, Sept. 6-Barry Stevens -9.· 00 Mike Daly -10.·30 
DON'T MISS ITI I 
(The Nazz is locatedin the basement ofLAFORTUNE) 
was, "Most unusual." 
With the media hounding 
Irish coaches and players to let 
loose the number-one secret, 
Devine and Young shut off 
their teams from the press 
earlier this week. Restraints 
were so tight that the. wire 
services did not even pick up on 
the Herrmann injury. 
As in the case with 
Herrmann's stand-in, inexper­1 ience will be a problem pla­guing the two teams. Ironically, it will be a strong Irish defense trying to stop an awesome Purdue offense, and a weak Boiler defense defending an untried Notre Dame offense. 
"Purdue's defense and our 
offense both return a lot of 
talented individuals," Devine 
said. "And they each have a few 
new faces. So it may come down 
to which unit matures a little 
quicker over the course of a 
Saturday afternoon." 
"Defensively, we'll rely more on Kingsbury and Clark for big plays," said Young. 
The two seniors will have to 
U.S. DlnYGRAMS 
Nothing's Quite As Witty As To Send A Little Ditty" 
Singing Telegrams by Allen Rothballer 
BirthdayI Get Well/ Anniversaries/ Apologies I Weddings. I Love You/Good Bye/Specialties/Any Occasion 

L
1 Coupon Per Pizza. .. 
I 

I 
Any Large Deep 
stop the newest in the line of 
outstanding Irish running 
backs, Phil Carter. Carter was 
tapped as the most outstanding 
offensive player of the 1980 
Blue-Gold Game, and many 
label him superior to his 
predecessors. 
Out front blocking for Carter 
will be fullbacksJohn Sweeney 
and Pete Buchanan, while sen­
iorJim Stone is ready to step in 
for Carter if the call should 
come. 

The most lethal part of the 
Irish, the receiving corps of 'Pete Holohan (flanker), Dean Masztak (tight end) and Tony Hunter (wide receiver) will test the ability of Courey's arm. Courey is not note~ for his throwing talents, but rather for 
his scrambling abilities. 
As the two Midwest power­houses take the field today, the one thing both veteran coaches do know is that they will settle their differences outright in a tough contest. And the Shil­lelagh will find a home for another year. 
r 
Saturday, September 6, 1980-page 8 
SJ>orts 

Dave Cooper, "the greatest Notre Dame fan," showsGo Irish! Kelly Tripucka his famous taxi. [photo by Phzl johnson]. 
'Lil sis' 

Another Hoyer in Irish tennis 
Cabbie Cooper calls self 'greatest Notre Dame fan' 
by Frank LaGrotta ''The ftrst game I ever saw in Sports Writer person was the Notre Dame­Army at Yankee Stadium,'' he Dave Cooper calls himself recalls. "I loved every minute ''the greatest Notre Dame fan of it. Then, as the years went in the world.'' by, I just became a bigger and 
And everyone who meets him btgger fan." agrees. · And he doesn't keep his 
You see, Cooper, a 49-year­support for the Irish a secret old cab driver from New York either. He has been proftled in City is the consumate example such publications as The Sport­
of a fan. Not a sports fan...A ing News, Inside Sports, the fan. New York Times ana, just this 
Because Dave Cooper's sup­week, CBS News sene a camera port for the Fighting Irish is not crew to get some ftlm of Cooper limited to athletes or sporting for their ''Sunday Mormng events. News'' program with Charles 
Hey, I just love Notre Da­Kuralt. me,'' he proclaims proudly. "Hey, I'm not doing that for "Everything about it-sports, me," he insists. ''I'd never the students-everything! I'm make any money or get any the number one Notre Dame publicity from Notre Dame. I fan in the world." just want to give Notre Dame 
His taxi cab certainly attests some publicity. I want everyone to that. He drove it here for to know what a great place it today's game and to see it-not is.'' 
co mention ride in it-is an And Notre Dame people. ap­experience not to be believed. preciate Cooper's efforts. It was The entire car is decorated with through Dan Devine that he got Notre Dame stickers, pennants, a hotel room for his week's stay and decals. Plus, everyone who in South Bend. Another coach rides in it gets treated to an helped him with tickets. Both eight-track version of the Vic­Devine and Digger Phelps have 
by <.'raig Chval

tory March, as well as a horn corresponded regularly with the 
Sports Writer

that blares the same. cabbie, as do many of the ''And they love it,'' smiles football and basketball players. 
For somebody who tries so"The Coop" as he is called by In fact, when the Irish cagers hard to follow in big brother'shis friends and fellow Notre traveled to New York last footsteps, Linda Hoyer certain­Dame supporters. "Most of February, special arangemencs ly is making quite a name for
those people can't believe what were made so that Cooper could a fan I am. When they get out of sit on the bench with the team. herself. my cab they say 'Coop, you're ''And that's where I am for Mark Hoyer is a senior stand­the greatest fan I ever met.'' every Notre Dame game," he out on the Notre Dame men's 
Hts love affair with Notre insists before explaining, "Ev­tennis team, but if younger Dame began 25 years ago when en though I can't be at the sister Linda's freshman season an Irish acquaintance, Jimmy game physically, I'm thre in is any indication, 'his biggest Lenehan, introduced him to the claim to fame soon might be as Fighting Irish. [continued on page 7] Linda Hoyer's big brother. 
For Boilers 

Young does what's natural 
Alan Lee  running back with over a 1000  Young's durability is evident  
SportJ Editor  yards and another one with over  by  his  having  never  missed  a  
Purdue Exponent  700."  Boilermaker  contest.  He  has  
With proven runners like that,  started the last 32 games,  cat­ 
Tight end Dave Young, curled behind the defense to a pre­ small wonder college recruiters looked at the 6-6, 240-pound  ching passes in each of Purdue's last 30 games and 34 ofthe last 35  
arranged  spot  inside  the  end  Young and Marsh for their de­ contests.  
zone front left corner just_as Mark Herrmann was completing  fensive skills. "They (scouts) were really looking at us from a  When Young arrived on Purdue campus naturally  the he  
his follow through motion.  defensive end because my senior  didn't receive as much publicity  
Young then tucked the per­ year I went both ways and Marsh  as Herrmann, but his pass catch­ 
fectly thrown spiral into his arms  went both ways his junior and·  ing ability just sort ofblossomed.  
for safe keeping and slid down  senior year."  "It was just something that need  
with  a big smile. It was  just a  So along  came  Purdue baed  to come out," Young said of his  
routine performance for Young,  coach Jim  Young  who  asked  knack for being on the receiving  
but  a  climatic  38-yard  touch­ Young  whether he wanted  to  end of Herrmann's tosses. "My  
down catch for Purdue as it was  play tight end or defensive end  senior  year  in  high  school  I  
the gqme winner in last season's  and Young quickly gave prefer­ caught 23 passes during practice  
27-22 Bluebonnet Bowl victory  ence to the former.  my freshman year-and I don't  
over Tennessee.  For both Youngs, that deci­ know how long it was-but I  
Now a senior, Young is con­ sion has paid off. Last year Young  went  quite  a  while  without  
sidered by NFL scouts as the best  was voted by his teammates as  dropping a pass. I wasn't aware of  
tight end in college football and a can't miss professional. Not bad for a guy who had to make a decision between playing offense or defense.  the MVP after catching 55 passes for 584 yards and 10 touch­downs. Young's 55 receptions were the most grabs in a singles season since total all-time re­ it, but Coach Young had men­tioned to me after I dropped one how long I had went without dropping one." The key to aqy receiver is  
Back at .bast High in Akron, Ohio, Young was a stand out on a team that was run-oriented and  ception leader]im Beirne's 64 iri 1966. tntering his final season,  con<;entration and Young de­votes all his attention to catching the ball. "Once the ball is in the  
,ls a result started two tight ends. The other tight end was former Michigan stand out Doug Marsh. Both prep students also did duty on the defensive side ofthe field.  Young already is the all-time Purdue touchdown pass recep­tion leader with 18 and needs just 29 catchesand439 yards to break Purdue records in those respec­ air, my eyes are on the ball. I don't worry about what's around me or who's coming to hit me," Young said. "I figure by drop­ping it, he's (defensive man)  
"It was basically a run offense. We didn't have to pass unless it was absolutely necessary,"  tive categories as well. Young is also within grasp of the Big 10 career pass receiving marks,  already has got his momentum going and he's going to hit me anyway. It just makes it hurt  
Young said of his high school team. "I think that year we had a.  needing 50 receptions to break the present mark of 159.  [continued on page 7]  

The Port Clinton, Ohio, na­tive with the California-girl looks burst upon the Notre Dame women's tennis scene last fall by winning 21 of 24 matches in the No. 2 singles position. She captured the Di­vision III state and regional titles in the second singles spot, and became ,the first 'Notre Dame woman ever to earn points at the AlA W national meet when she won her first two matches there. 
Hoyer got a tennis start as a nine-year old in Columbus, phio, mainly because Mark had begun playing a few months earlier. 
"I was a tomboy," she laughs. "I didn't play with dolls-I played with guns. And I did whatever Mark did." 
So Linda went to her father and asked if she could take lessons with Mark. 
"He said that he would let me start as soon as I could bounce 
he ball off my racquet 100 times in a row." 
That slowed up her budding tennis career, but only for a short while. Not long after she mastered the 100 bounces, her dad entered her in a tourna­ment. 
"I won the first match, the next girl defaulted, and the last girl had to default when she got a blister on her foot," she re­calls. "So here I was, nine years old, and going to the regional for 12-and-under. I got blown away in my first match, but it was a good experience for me." 
Linda didn't get blown away too often, though, and by the time she reached Port Clinton High School, she was ready for bigger challenges-like play­ing No. 2 singles behind Mark on the boys' team. She com­piled a 15-4 record but people at the school pressured her to switch to the girls' team after her freshman season. 
"It wasn't a very big school, and the people there wanted me to play on the girls' team be­cause they thought I could make a name for the school," she says. "At first I didn't like 
the i~ea, but after a while, I 
figured that it was probably 
better for me ifi wanted to play 
tennis at a universitv." 
So Hoyer ran up a" 68-3 mark in three seasons on the girls' squad, and began to look at different colleges. She narrow­ed the decision down to Notre Dame, William and Mary and Miami tOhio). · "It wasn · t really a hard choice," Hoyer says. "I had been down here sevefal times to visit Mark, and I really liked it. By then, Notre Dame was like a second home to me." 
She was forced to make up her mind without any coun­seling from Mark, though. 
"He was determined not to try to talk me into coming to Notre Dame," she says. "And sometimes that made me so mad. For a while, I almost thought that he didn't want me to come here." 
After deciding to enroll at Notre Dame, it came time to select a field of study. 
"I thought a lot about going into pre-med, because that's what Mark was in," she says: "I wanted to get that balance be­tween athletics and academics that he seems to have." 
She elected instead to give business a try, but she's still searching for that balance. 
"With tennis starting right away in the fall, there was a lot of pressure-everything hap­pened .so fast," says Hoyer. "That's one of the things I want to do this year, get that bal­ance." 
While she may not be quite living up to her expectations in the classroom, it would be hard to find fault with her perform­ance on the tennis court. But she tries. 
"I have to become more ag­gressive," ·she insists. "I think a lot of that had to do with the fact that I was a freshman last year, at least I hope so. I also have to hit my forehand better. I can do it in practice, but I don't always do it in a match. That's just a matter of confidence." 
[comin_ued on paJ!.e 5] 



