
~------""'1 
VOL. XV, NO. 43 an indepc-ndem srudem newspape-r serving notre-dame and saint mary's FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1980 • 

Trustees meet with students~ 
By Paul Mullaney gested that the best way staff is prepared to beginEditor-in-chief to solve any CLC ineffi. immediate organization ofThe Student Affairs Com­ciencies might be to fix the senate, offered to re­
,mittee of the University's 1 
the · system rather than tain his post as chairman
Board of Trustees yester­
tossing it aside. of the CLC. He indicatedday met with student leaders 
Riehle had indicated that that the new student sen­for nearly four-and-a-half faculty and staff attend­ate may be helpful tn hours to receive student enc was a rarity, and reviving the council. 
input on current campus it restricted the CLC from The CLC has not been issues. accomplishing anything. caUed together yet this 
Among the topics touch­Pfeiffer suggested that en­semester. Riehle offered ed upon in the annual forcing by-laws which require no target dates for con­fall meeting were the cam­attendence, and making other vening a CLC meeting. pus social space l?roblem, organizational improvements, Don-Murday, executive funding for dormitones, off­wiUhelp solve the problem. coordinator for Student Gover 
campus security and hous­John A. Schneider, com­nment, proposed that the ing, and the restructuring mittee chairman, saluted LaFortune baUroom undergoof student government. Riehle's efforts to pass the immediate renovation into 
The Student Affairs Comm student senate and the a Vegetable Buddies or itte will review the pro­new constitution. 'he rec coffeehouse-type setup in posals and requests made ommende that the student attempt to establish a so­at yesterday's meeting, and supply ener~y to help get cial location where students 
will make recommendations the CLC runntng smoothly. can "hang out." to the entire Board, which He also encouraged the After showing serters of convenes today. student senate to approach slides in an attempt to 
Student Body President Paul the faculty senate and show the trusttees that Riehle, presentin~ the re­demand better representa­the campus lacks social ults of Tuesday s referen­tion in the CLC. He also space, Murday emphasized
dum, which approved the felt that the student sen­that a short-term solution new constitution and stu­ate would be an excel­to this long-range probledent senate, proposed that lent vehicle to identify the is necessary.the student senate be est­issues at hand. Schneider, who said there ablished to replace the Schneinder said he would is a need for a social 
Campus Life Council (CLC), ask the Board to change location suggested that as the main voice of stud the CLC preamble, the onl Murday go through other 
ent government. 
part of the CLC by-laws channels to seek fundingRielhle stressed that stu­that requires Board action for the project. Without 
dents involved with the CLC for change. He wiH re­have not received proper (continued on page 6)
quest the Board to allow 
cooperation from faculty and substitution of thefour cur­staff members on the coun-rent undergaduate CLC rep­
cil. This according to resentatives (haU vice-pres­Arms trade? 
Riehle, has not allowed the dents) with four represent­
council to function properly atives to be determined as a legitimate student by the student senate. 
WLS-TV reports hostage deal
voice. Riehle said that Riehle accepted the comm 
the CLC has run its course, ittee's recommendations. and asked the Trustees to "We went to the well, CHICAGO (AP) -WLS-TV "totally false" but the station Prime Minister Mohammed Ali ratify the student senate and dido' t come back reported yesterday that the stood by its story. Rajai to discuss the fate of the 52 as an official voice which thirsty,'' said Riehle. They American hostages have been "We may be wrong in some American hostages"if he should would make proposals dir­gave us more than a fair returned to the U.S. Embassy in detail-we have said that on the be amenable." But Carter's ectly to the office of Stu­hearing. Afterall, we kept Tehran in preparation for a trip air. But we will stand by the basis spokesman said the president
dnei: Affairs. 
them an hour-and-a-half over-home as part ofan arms deal with of the report. We feel a deal is in saw"no real possibility" ofsuch a Jane C. Pfeiffer1 on of the 
time." Iran. A state Department the works," said Tom Kuelbs, meeting.
committee members,sug-
Riehle, who indicated his spokesman clled the report news director of WLS. Carter was quick to add that 
In Washington, State theere is "no imminent" pros­Department spokesman John pect of the hostages" release. Trattner also denied other as­Rajai is travelling to New York to pects of the telecast, including a participate in United Nations report that President Carter's jet, deliberations on the subject of
Peace Corps recruits students; 
Air Force One, has been placed Iran's war with Iraq. The on standby to carry him to an Air President was to attend a charity Force base on the East Coast to banquet in the city yesterday 
meet with the hostages on their evening. return to this country. When reporters asked Carter Last evening the station said about a meeting between he and 

seeks tnath, science tnajors 
By Davtd Sarphie Sloan said that the organiza­paid vacations are other benefits. 
-one unconfirmed report "mak­Rajai, he said, "There's always ation is designed to help the poor As Sloan pointed out, how­ing the rounds" at the State potential. We have not made any Twenty years ago this month, of Asia, Africa, and Latin ever, there are other abstract Department is that aU but four of arrangements to meet with Mr.
the late John F. Kennedy first America in such areas as edu­benefits. "The Peace Corps is for the hostages would be released Rajai, but if he should beproposed an "international cation, health care, and social anyone with 'a sense of ad­and that the four not freed would amenable to a meeting we would youth service program." Over work. venture, who would like to "remain for trial." That report certainly continue to follow ourthe years this program, the Peace She noted that math and experience another culture and was not repeated on the station's practic of meeting with anyCorps, has grown into one of the science teachers are in great actually have a positive impact late night newscast. Iranian official who had a pos­largest volunteer aid programs in demand right now. "Many of the on the lives ofother people," she On the 10 p.m. telecast the sibility ofspeaking authoritative­the world. math and science majors see high said. 
station reported four "highly ly for their government." 
In an attempt to obtain new wages in the job market and are Sloan was especially excited placed" sources on three con­Carter said a meeting withmembers, a Peace Corps re­pressured to immediately enter a 1about her visit to the campus. 
tinents had confirmed the Rajai might include "myself orcruiter annually visits the'Notre field," she remarked. "I think the "I've been to Notre Dame hostage deal was in the works. (Secretary ofState) Ed Muskie orDame campus. Clovia Sloan, a Peace Corps is a good way to find several times, and each time I've The station said the parts must (Deputy Secretary of State)volunteer for three years, was in a direction in life." felt the students have taken a be in there by noon today for the Warren Christopher or who­the Memorial Library yesterday. · Volunteers normally serve for . strong interest in the program." 
deal to go through, but the trade ever."
As well as providing information a two year period during which 1 Anyone interested in the pro­would not be announced until Asked whether Rajai had ex­on the program, she was schedul­time they receive a monthly gram may talk to Sloan in the next week. presssed any interest in such aing potential volunteers for the living allowance comparable to library concourse today or sign interview sessions to be held the area in which they are up for an interview at the President Carter said yesterday 
Placement Office. ,(continued on page 3)
October 29 and 30. '1 working. Health coverage and he is willing to meet with Iranian 
Senior Rita Leard creates on the pottery wheel. (photo by Greg Mauer] 

----------~-------­


l\T~tlJSclJ==t:==i=~~~=S========~=====================F=r=id=ay=,=O=c=to=b=er=l=7=,=19=8=0=-=P=a=ge~2 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
The medical use ofmarijuanashould be reconsidered by the federal government which has, in the past, placed stringent controls onits use, a federal appeals court has ruled. A three-judge panel said that the Drug Enforcement Administration should take a second look atits decision to keep marijuana and its derivatives in the same drug category as heroin and LSD, which are not known to have medical uses. The court's action will not immediately make marijuana any more widely available to patients seeking it to avoid nausea during chemotherapy or for glaucoma. It took 27 months for the government to reach a decision on marijuana control the last time.-AP 
Operation Yellowjacketwasasuccessful undercover "sting" in Valhalla, New York despite some comic quirks in this year-long operation. Undercover agents had to dispose ofa truck ofhijacked bananas, evade fellow policemen as they drove stokn cars and turn down an invitation to join the Chamber of Commerce. The undercover ploy netted $1.25 million in stolen goods that the agents bought for a mere $83,000 while posing as fences at-a Pelham storefront. Dozens of people were arrested in pre-dawn raids this past week. Among the recovered stolen items were 78 cars, two tractor­trailers, two computer terminals, assorted government checks, credit cards and television sets. "We could have opened up a major department store," one police officer commented. 
AP 
Adopting a ~et tough attitude, sen. 
Birch Bayh has launched a new wave of television and radio commercials designed to draw a lead on his Republican challenger, Dan Quayle. The campaign plans to spend over $400,000 on radio and television air time between now and election day, according to campaign aide Fred Nation. In a recently conducted interview, Bayh said, "I think there is going to be a rather significant emphasis on some of the negatives Congressman Quayle has shown. One is his relationship with the oil companies and the other is his attendence at committee meetings." -AP 
An earthquake measuring 4.8 on the Richter scale shook Unalaska m the Aleutian Islands yesterday but there were no reports of damage, the Alaska Tsunami Warning Center reported. The quake occurred at 6:54 a.m. Alaska Daylight Time and was centered about 40 miles east of Unalaska, or about 800 miles southwest of Anchorage. 
Ann Landers,marking a quarter of a century as an 
advice columnist, would prescribe for herself50 lashes with a 
wet noodle ifshe even gave a thought to retiring. "As long as 
I have all my marbles and the energy to do this job," the 
syndicated newspaper column will continue, she said 
Thursday on its 25th anniversary. 
Since Oct. 16, 1955, Miss Landers, now 62, has been 
listening to and helping the baffled, frustrated, angry and 
curious. Her opinions have been sought on everything from 
troubled love affairs to drug abuse, prostitution, alcoholism, 
lying, snoring, toilet paper, sweating, cheating, bridal 
etiquette, problem children and problem parents. Despite 
eight secretaries to help open hundreds ofletters a day, she 
said her 10-to-12-hour workdays include personally writing 
every word that has ever appeared in the column. 
The first major snowstorm of autumn attacked the Rocky Mountain states yesterday, clogging roads with chest-high drifts and ripping down power lines, while tornadoes whipped through the Plains. 
Twisters smashed houses and barns and injured several people in Kansas, Nebraska, Colorado and Oklahoma, while 1 0-inch snows crippled mountain towns and cities such as Billings, Montana. 
Along the Rocky range from New Mexico to Montana, the story was much the same. Highways were closed and schools were out. The heavy wet snow snapped tree limbs that brought down power lines, leaving thousands of homes without electricity. 
In Wyoming, where 10 inches accumulated in Rawlins and elsewhere, Interstate 80 was closed from Cheyenne to Walcott, more than 100 miles to the west, the Highway Patrol said. 
Windy with a chance of rain today. Highs in the low 70s with evening temperatures dipping into the 50s. Partly cloudy and mild tomorrow with highs in the upper 60s. -AP 
Inside Friday 


Education vs. training 
Welcome to the oddestofall possible W(!ekends. 
Look at the tre~s. What do you see? Ifyou see a I magnificent splash of autumnal color outlining gothic ivy, ifyou feel the thrill offalltime academia merging into weekend football bliss, you are a parent or a visitor. Ifyou look at the trees and see trees you are a student, a talent for poetic perception nothwithstanding. 
Now look at the people. See the one with black 
eye bags balanced atop unshaven cheeks? He's a 
student, and he's just been through about a week 
of mid-terms, very strung-out on Fitzgerald 
Bataille, Hobbes and Navier-Stokes equations. 
Forgive him if he 
doesn't appreciate the 
trees or the subtleties 
offall under the dome. 
He's burned out on life 
and is ready to get out. 
And he has these two beasts tugging at him. One is telling him to get educated, the other is telling him to learn a function, get a job. The two seem mutually exclusive. 
He read in a Time magazine report last 

state has enacted a law defining the talent of thinking as a "basic skill" for the job market. This pleased him greatly, for it proved at the same time both New York's awareness ofwhat makes man man and their concern for literacy. He is literate, now he needs a job. Maybe he'll go to New York: they'll appreciate him there. 
And he's been reading The Observer He read that Fr. Hesburgh told the faculty that we need more humanities, more people in this society who can think critically. He wonders why he can only find one topy ofT.S. Eliot's The Wasteland in the library. He wonders why when he goes there for research on a paper he always ends up with a professor saying: "Oh yeah, for that you have to go to the South Bend Public Library." And he wonders if anyone can see the connection between those two seemingly unrelated items. He can. He's been taught to think that way. 
He was woken up at9 a.m. the other morning by a phone call from his father, a man who, like normal people, works for a living. He wonders what his father thought about the lifestyle of a student who is still asleep three hours after the sun has risen. He didn't mention that he was going down while the sun was coming up, his head full of academic matter that won't mean anything when 
Mark Rust 
Managing Editor 

he aP.plies for a job. He wonders what it will be like 
when he gets a job, eats regularly, goes to bed 
regularly, and gets up with the sun. 
Sometimes he has these hallucinations. He 
thinks he has conquered the two beasts who tug at 
his consciousness ... he thinks he has somehow 
merged them in a job where his employer is asking: 
"Son, just how precise­
ly can we use structur­
alist critism in such a 
way that we can inter­
pret the consciousness 
behind inner-office 
memos." And he 
knows the answer. A 
plus. 

And sometimes he 
has these fears. He sees 
himself carrying a 
briefcase full of term 
papers into an inter­
iew with a man who is 
prepared to offer him a 
job working behind 
the wheel ofa taxi. He 
would be an engaging 
conversationalist. He 
could be known as a 
humanist cabbie, philosopher king. He's not sure that really excites him. 
His mind is full, as you can see. It happens about this time ofyear, and if he had had a midterm in a course called "Cliche 101" he might be reminded of an applicable adage about taking time to smell the roses. 0 r was it trees? No, you smell roses, look at trees. He did the other day. They just looked like trees. 
Don't mind the student if he doesn't see what you see. Sometimes he does, but it happens right at the very first turn ofthe leaves, when mid-terms seem so far away. In a few days they will be faraway, in the other temporal direction. It's breaktime and football weekend, and he sees cars jamming the highway-also going in different directions. He see a pattern there. But he always sees patterns: he's been taught to do that. And he wonders ifthat is odd. 
Welcome to the oddest ofall possible weekends. 



from the world beyond. .. 
Design Editor. . . ........ Margaret Kruse Desigq Assistants., .......... Mary Dumm 
Matt Dolan, Steve "Pirate" O'Brien 
Layout Staff . ...... Jim "Diego" Hoeffler Day/Night Technicians .. .. Kathy Crossett · News Editor . ............. Margie Brassil Copy Editor..... Mary Fran" Let Me Out" 
Callahan Features Layout . .. Molly "6 Pages" Woulfe Sports Copy Editor ........ Beth Huffman Typists. .. Linda Hewitt, Marilyn Broderak Proofreader. . . . . . . . .. ~ruce Oakley ND Day Editor ..... Ryan Ver Berkmoes Classifieds Layout . . . . . . . . . . . . . M.A.K. Supplement Layout . ........ Mary & Molly Photographer. .... Greg "half day" Maurer Guest Appearances.. .. The Prince, Keenan Cavemen, Johnny Max,and those from beyond. · 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre· Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
-SUNDAY MASSES AT SACRED HEART CHURCH  all' CC!RJPUS  
m1n1Stry 
5:15p.m. Saturday  Rev. Robert Griffin,  c.s:c.  
9:00 a.m. Sunday  Rev. John Fitzgerald,  c.s.c.  

10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. Michael McCafferty, c.s.c. 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. John Fitzgerald, c.s.c. 
7:15 p.m. Vespers Rev. Michael McCafferty, c.s.c. 

The Observer Friday, October 17, 1980: Jpage 3 

In Moscow 

Soviet , Afghan leaders n1eet 

Moscow-(AP)-President Babrak Karma! of Afghanistan held face-to-face talks yesterday with his backers at the Kremlin for the first time since the Soviet military helped install him in office ten months ago. 
Karma!, also the leader of the ruling People's Democratic Party and premier, was greeted at V nukovo Airport by a full lineup of Soviet officials led by President Leonid I. Brezhnev and was driven into the city along streets lined with people, flags, streamers and banners, Soviet television reported. 
Despite speculation by sources in New Delhi, India that Karma! may be in trouble with his Kremlin supporters because of continued resistance by anti­communist Moslem guerrillas in Afganistan, the Soviets appeared to be using the visit for a strong demonstration ofsupport for his 
• • . Deal 

[cont£nued from page 1] 
meeeting, the President said, "I don't know whether he has or not, nor do I have any informa­tion that he has." 
Later, after the President boarded Air Force One following a campaign appearance, White House Press Secretary Jody Powell told reporters that Carter wanted to add that "I see no real possibility" of a meeting invol­ving the Iranian leader. 
Earlier Thursday, Muskie said "the door is open" to negotia­tions with Iran over the hostages. But he denied any discussion is under way or deal is in the works. 
"There is no such proposal at all," Muskie said about reports the Carter Administration is prepared to trade military spare parts for release of the American captives. 
Kabul regime. Brezhnev hugged Karma! at the foot of his airplane's ramp. The Soviet media had effusive accounts of the importance of the visit, claims of "successful operations for the liquidation of gangs of mercenaries and terror­ists" in Afghanistan and accounts of the "fraternal and selfless aid" given Afghanistan by the Soviet Union. Karma! was quoted by the official Tass news agency as saying his visit "will become a new step in the cause of further strengthening the unshakable fraternal unity and cohesion of the two states." Western observers in Moscow think the major purpose of the visit is an attempt to boost Karmal's image. as a national leader and to publicize the claimed benefits ofSoviet friend­ship. 
Asked if any negotiation with Iran is under way, Muskie said: "No there isn't." 
A few minutes earlier, in a question-and-answer session be­fore the Woman's National Democratic Club, Muskie re­sponded enigmatically about the reports of a possible trade, "I've seen the rumors." 
State Departmeent spokes­man John Trattner said any meeting with Rajai would not be publicly announced. 
"In order to gt these issues between our two countries set­tled, it will be essential to do them privately and confidential­ly," he said. "We will not be able to discuss any such future meetings with you." 
Asked about a report that Iran plans to release the hostages imminently in return for U. S. provision of spare parts to Iran, Trattner said the account was "totally false." 
Diplomatic sources in India. predicted that the Kabul regime would receive wide-range tech­nical, military and political sup­port during the visit The speculation was fueled by reports that the Afghan delegation in­cluded ministers of defense, foreign affairs and economic planning, as well as some military leaders. 
The Soviets sent an estimated 85,000 troops into Afghanistan last December to help oust Marxist President Hafizullah Amin and install Karma!. Most of the troops remain. The interven­tion is expected to come under renewed attack next month at a scheduled U.N. General Assem­bly debate. 
Despite frequent claims of victories against the "bandits and mercenaries," reports filtering out of Afghanistan suggest that the Soviets have failed to secure most of the country's rural districts . 
Kuldip Nayar, editor of the Indian Express newspapers who recently visited Afghanistan, wrote that the rebels control90 of the country's 186 administra­tive districts around the clock and 48 others by night. He said the Karma! regime and Soviet forces control the major cities and 48 districts. 
Nayar also said the Soviets are considering establishing a new party, the Communist Party of Afghanistan, including men from the pro-Soviet hard core in both the Khalq and Parcham wings of the ruling party. 
Local high school student, Roseanne McCabe, heads to ND. orchestra practice. (photo by·Greg Macor) 
.,...............................................................................................................................
f

i N.D.S.U. Presents: ! 
STEREO CLEARANCE HOUSE HAS LOWEST STEREO 
~ 

Pioneer SX780 R~tCelver Pioneer PLJOO Turntable $99. Akal GXM10 Cassene $199 
~=======i FRIDAY, OCT. 31, 1980 . 

Our Free Catalog hao many more deals on 
major brenda, even lower prices on our Plan AHEAD-bring a costume 
monthly opecialo oheet. Send now and find out how to buy current $7.98 lilt lp'a for back from break. Costumes will be 
•3.69. Stereo Clearance House Dept CH81 1029 Jacoby St .. Johnstown, Pa. 15902 . 
judged, and prizes will be awarded. ~1
:
. Phone Quotes 814-536-1611 
\ ........................................................................................................................-.~ 

MemberslaiiJI aval..,. at ffte door 



HolyCross Fathers 
Universityof NotreDame 

A commu~ity 
of faith and friendship where young men prepare to become Holy Cross priests. · 
For further Information or vocational counseling with no obligation contact: 

Rev. Andre Leveille, c.s.c. Box 541 Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 219 283-6385 
GBU#403 




featuring. • • 
• Mechanical Ridilll Bull 
• Uve CoWdry!Westn Music Wed. t1ru Sat 
• Open 11 a.m. to 3a.m. Mon. thru Sat 
• 
Sandwiches, -.s, pim 11 a.m. to 2a.1. 

• 
Open .for lunches 


This Week: 
BARRY 

GlAVIn 

--~--~--~­
The Observer Friday, October 17, 1980 page4 



Professor surveys to define Mid-west 

KANSAS CITY, \Mo. (AP)­
Everybody knows about the Midwest. It's where Johnny Carson grew up withoutdevelop­ing an accent. It's that expanse of rolling country where our food comes from. 
But exactly where is it? That's a tougher question, and a geo­graphy professor got some sur­prising answers from university students across the nation. 
James Shortridge of the University of Kansas set out a year ago to find the Midwest. Never mind that by living in Lawrence, Kan., most people would say he's already there. 
He wanted a more scientific definition of the region for his study of its culture since white men settled there in large numbers 175 years ago. So for
·Maintenance solders broken lamp post. [photo by Greg Mauer] 
starters, he distributed question­aires to 3,000 freshmen and sophomores at state universities in 31 states. 
Here's what he found: Students from 20 states de­
fined the heart of the Midwest as 
Nebraska or Kansas states on the 
western fringe of the 12-state 
region formally called the Middle 
West by academics . And 1 percent of the Washington state residents who 

~) 
TEXDER 
Bl.LL 
responded said they considered their state midwestern, as did 9 
Pitchers of Beer -Sandwiches Served til"Last Call" ­Happy Hour 3 to 6 p.m. 
Tremor shakes volcano 
THE TENDER BULL: Open Sun. 11:30 to 10; Mon.-Thurs. 11-11; 
Fri. & Sat. 11-1. 
VANCOUVER Wash.(AP)
On Ironwood Just North of Edison. 
After a sharp earthquake beneath Mount St. Helens 
and a 1,000-foot plume of steam and ash last 
"Where the taste is not just good... it's better." 
Operated by Notre Dame Alumnus-Class of64 
night, scientists warned 
I! Town & Country I·· HELD OVER! 
. · 2340 N. HICKORY ROAD. MISHAWAKA 259.•9090 • 
4 Shows Daily 2-4:30-7-9:30 

Paramount Pictures Presents a Wildwood Enterprises Production "Ordinary PeopiA" Donald Sutherland • Mary Tyler ~ 1oore • Judd Hirsch • Timothy Hutton 
Music Adapted by Marvin HamIisch • Screenplay b' ·Alvin Sargent. Produced by Ronald L Schwary ••r11•cno___ @>· ) Directed by Rob~ I 1-hdf· nd A Paramount Picture l-.~R ..1111fQUIRES AtC.OMPAfUHI~ ' L~1py(j!llll '' M(:~ •I XXX !Jy I'.U·triiCIIJIII l11r hJif",LOI[IUtdiUJ/1 Allfllrftll•.lh",I'IV••r! :~•.I ____ -~--I'AR~:_o~_AOULI GUAROIAN • . :~~ 
percent of Californians, 2 per­cent Alabamans and 3 percent of West Virginians. 
In Ohio, the easternmost state of the traditional region, only 4 7 percent ofstudents polled claim­ed Midwestern residence. 
The dictionary definition of the Midwest includes Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota and W-isconsin. But Shortridge says that definition is misleading. 
"It's a· perceptual region. You have to go with the perceptions of the people," Shortridge says. "Maybe originally, people had the perceptual view of the Midwest with Illinois in the center, the image ofa small-town rural America. 
"But time passes. Detroit, Chicago, Cleveland grow up and don't seem to fit into the traditional definition. So what people do is keep the old definition and move the area. The definition now fits the plains more than the old area." 
Only people from Indiana and Illinois still believe they repre­sent the Midwest's center, he said. Elsewhere, from New Y ark to Texas to Washington, stud­ents put the core farther west. 
that an eruption ''is a 
ossibility in the next 24
hours. " 

"Due to an increase in the number of seismic events occurring around Mount St. Helens, the University of Washington has issued a warning that an eruption is pos­sible," said Joyce Rous­ton of the Federal Em­ergency Management Ag­ency. The 7:02 p.m. earthquake , measuring about 3.0 on the Richter scale, was centered just beneath the volcano's cra­ter, Routson said, 
Small "seismic bursts," or class B quakes that are too weak to be rated on the Richter scale of ground motion, have rattled the volcano throughout the week. But the 3.0 quake couples with conttnouos steam yesterday changed geolo­gists' minds about the seriousness of the recent seismic activity, Rouston said. 
Steam mixed with ash accompanied the 7:02 p.m. earthquake, and the plume extended 1,000 feet above the vocano, she said. 
"Steam mixed with ash accompanied 
"If lt's going to go, it's go ing to go in hours... or within a day," said Steve Malone, a seismolo­gist at the University of Washington geophysics cen­ter. '' Seismic activity has been building fairly rapidly.'' 
" We're watching the stuff (earthguake activity) build. If lt follows the was it has 10 the past, true to course, we're going to have an erup­tion," he said. 

. -----,
~ .. ··. . ··.. '• 
• . : ~ ·, : t '
.. .·· ......... 
.:: o ;... t' I •.. '\ ••.• '~. 
•'"."· 
. . . . ;: !. ; { i:; ,;:_,:;:.>>:.~f_ ·~;; 
~~f~•~rQ~~t..l1 
~~~ 

ND students practicing their surveying techniques on the campus. 
STARKE, Fla. (AP)-A beef­ed-up guard force conducted a cell-by-cell search yesterday of Florida State Prison, home ofthe nation's most populous Death Row, in an effort to quell in­termittent violence that has left one guard dead and two injured. 
"It's calm in there," said Corrections Department spokesman Vernon Bradford. "The institution is under total lockdown." In a lockdown, "everybody stays in their cells. There is no movement," Bradford explained. 
The prisoners inside the 19­year-old institution will remain locked in their cells indefinitely, Bradford said. 
Officials brought in rein­forcem~nts Wednesday night and used tear gas to subdue 300 inmates when one guard was stabbed with a homemade spear and another was scalded by Death Row inmates. A guard was fatally stabbed by a Death Row inmate Sunday. 
Ofthe 1,200 inmates atStarke, 149 are on Death Row. Among them are Theodore Bundy, killer of three young women and sus­pectin dozens ofdisappearances; 


Unemployment spurs emigration 
by Associated Press 
Illegal aliens who slip across the Mexican border into the United States will continue to do so until America decides to help Mexico create more jobs for its citizens, a population expert says. 
Paul Ehrlich, who spent more than two years researching illegal immigration for his 1979 book, "The Golden Door," spoke at the University of Evansville on Thursday. 
"It looks like most of the immigrants coming in were ones who were just coming in the classic mannner, to work, send money home and then go home-not to be permanent residents," Ehrlich said. 
"We have, ofcourse, helped to create that situation with Mexico ... We took by force more than half of their country, have done many other things that created joblessness in Mexico, and we have used Mexicans as a labor pool of last resort for most 
. of this century." 
Erlich said illegal immigration from Mexico in 1975 probably was not much higher than it was during the 1950s. But he said the next few decades will see more and more Mexicans wanting to come to the United States to work, resulting in an enormous problem unless the U.S. gov­ernment changes its policy. 
"We're going to have to re­shape our entire relationship with Mexico," he said. 
"This is not a problem with Mexico. It's a MexicanAmerican problem that we're going to have to work out. The big solution is to help the Mexicans change their economy so that their now something like 40-50 percent unemployment rate drops. 
Ehrlich, a population biologist at Stanford University, is best known for his book "The Population Bomb." 
In that book, he warned that the planet would be hit by mas­sive starvation if the population continued to increase uncheck­ed. 
Even with birth rates in some underdeveloped countries be­ginning to decline, he said, the world population could double in the next 40 years from its present 4.4 billion. 
A decade ater he wrote it, Ehrlich said the prognosis is even worse. 
But the population probably will never reach 8 billion, he said, because an increasing death rate will counteract the population explosion. 
.. STUDENT/FACULTV BOOK SALE Library Concourse October30 ... 
· October31 9-4
9-5 


10 OZ. Prime Rlb~-············· ..··········.........._6.95 22 oz. and up Prime Rlb...............-.12. 9 5 choicer cooked slowly,tender, juicy ... so good 
9 95

Suts!J3.~r;cnnsauieect................... · 
mushrooms pampered
w/ lemon 6 butter) 
LUNCHEON SPECIALS

Stuffed Broiled Trout.......-6.95 
SERVED DAILY I

Greek Shlshkabob............-6.95 
Steak 6 Shrlmp....._.............;~.95
GRECIAN CUISINE:  open Sun. for  
Specializing in  dining & cocktails  
.Greek ~ya:o~ ..  4:30-IO:OOpm  

Stephen Beattie, a Canadian politician's brother who killed his partner and two cleaning woman at their fashionable Dade County health spa, and Charles 
W. Proffitt, who stabbed a Tampa wrestling coach to learn what it felt like to kill someone. 
The trouble took place less than two weeks after a judge ordered one-third of the inmates transferred to other prisons be­cause of what he called the 
''The institution is under totallockdown. '' 
"intolerable" level ofviolence at the facility where four inmates have been stabbed to death since July. 
The violence Wednesday began minutes after a memorial service for the slain guard and quickly spread to three, 100-in­mate wings of the ml_!ximum security prison. Inmates burned trash and paper, yelled, banged on their cells and broke out windows. 

Tear gas had been used for the first time in years Tuesday after prison inmates flooded one wing with backed-up toilets and pitched foodtrays into the halls to protest a new rule put into effect after the guard was slain. 
On Oct. 3, Circuit Judge RA. Green ordered the state to move 372 inmates -a third of the prison's population-to other prisons within ten days. A state appeals court extended that to 45 days. 
Gren's ruling came in a suit 
filed by nine inmates who con­
tended they had been subjected 
to cruel and unusual punishment 
and that the prison's staff. is 
unable to protect inmates. 
Prison officials said guard Howard Howland was stabbed Wednesday as he counted prisoners. 
As dinner trays wtre being passed out later, inmate Stephen Booker threw a pai! of scalding water on guard M.S. Thomas, officials said. Booker, 28, is awaiting execution for the rape/murder of a 94-year-old Alachua County woman. 
Corrections officer Richard Burke, 48, was killed Sunday while escorting another Death Row inmate to the showers. 

.SATURDAY OCTOBER IS OPEN lOam 
UBLE BLOODY 





MARY'S

$1.00 

CAMPAIGN 'SO including ... 

Candidate opinion essays by students and professors 
Reviews of current political trends, including ~n essay by Prof. Ralph Mcinerny 
also poetry by English Dept. Award winners 
apreview of the collections in the Snite Museum 

The Observer Friday, October 17, 1980-page 6
j 
----------~--~----------------------------------------------­
I . I 
1 I :·: • • • Trustees 


Ji i 
· {t~tit~ue~~m ftrJg• ~{, i. \:oi}i-; ·,. :~.-.5 of c~st, qhe
"'' " :·: '\:~·. I:;~ way -~ . 
•... '.:.'. . '~.. _ ..nroRI'I•-.~l r ,
·• r.;::, If' r-"all-1
'<-." ~v...w~i.tea'' 
... yiC:t'-· · • t ·for I,:he 1Stu­
. , P;f~ ·~·~· l~~i,. ~~7".,~ .."tOiled th~ tttllie.•lt\"tb_< NOtlllp­
sityadministration rather than the Board of Trustees. "T~ flleet~ gave us • solid first. ._~i..n.: sto_ne ro_··.get.
hin · .J.: -."' u :da uJ,d 
t l!l'P.·-'.Qf.:•,~··•>C.nlolt. y. . . .
''Jf.wc•.r.e-~ going toget a 
oe.~' ' " 
::::.... ~-. mdietie-~:1m~::e 
did rt\at tbcla ·.tF· 1' ·· · · 
-~--:emel"tFi' ··break~"ll' T~~ rru· '···.iiit1ft~ai;t~·'tinds meetiriii Van WoN-lear ·~id, program be pet -.o-·~ annual would brlog rog-e~her : !tpe Uruversity b\tdget to hdp fi. nO:ce~saty' stwden•s an;d tlance improvements tn the "bu"g"ll\ei'S ·perso~~H ;~:~· -dori:~&. · · -"-..:... ganiie the efforts.;~tO obta10 .The _program would enable , rbe ne~;:essary funding. jj · ·individual residence halls to ·u .Wali .the .c~h-sus ~el-reciev.c f.r.nancial aid from the iog · that the LiFortUJOe 1 University, as1on_g as die dorm renovat~on . is a. · /suita.~~~. would match the fig~c; from its teiiovattotl 1s ·sumibie t111ttal ·own treasury. ·Srmilar pro­stepin solvin.g the $ocial ~pace grams have been successful in problem on campus. -It. wa;s recent years. · . emphasized , however, tilat lt Schneider said he win recom­be handled throug~ the Ufri.ver-mend to the Bo~rd that $25,000 

be annually placed inro the University's budget for this purpose. · .-'. 
Off-C~s·''Commissioner Mark .. 'Ke_Ri.. •·.· ·. 1 -~-ed ._..t.·'"...­
.... :'·e_·~. 
.c·_--·t·~.;~.h~
... -._,;:._~ho··.;.;.;~~ 
.......... ~....-,.....,. .....a u .. 

~ms \i(' : e ie ··ed lit ·'1­
~ff~tam.Pul""~~s~~:·' lfe 
diatributecll'WtoouJs whlth d¢" 

~~~~~~~--~~-· 
Kelley·:mggeS'ted t!k the Off. ·C~pus OH'ta ·be ex:pan~d,and that i( b~come roore ceffi­ciem·.-Thi~,·J,e~aid;~~­the s.tudeirts in legal arid pr~ticai areas. · 
Deari of $tudents James Roemer n<M:ed' tha~ 'the City of South , Bend on Wednesday 

· offertd· to inspect houses that· the University migl,lt refer to them. This might ltelp land­lords take better care of their property It was sduggested, however, that a crew of students inspect­ors might be more effective because the students may have a better idea. of what the student tennat ·wants from an offcampus home. No other proposals or recom­medations on the off-campus situation wered made. The Student Affairs Com­mittee serves as a link between the stude ..nts and the full Board of Trustees. 
The members of the Student Affairs Committee are: Schneider, Fr. Thomas e. Blantz, Anthony F. Earley, Philip J. Faccenda, Fr.John C. Gerber, Paul F. Hellmuth, Donald Keosh, Donald J. Matthews, Anthony J. F. O'Reilly, Preiffer, the Honor­able John D. Rockefeller IV, and William D. Reynolds. All were presenrt at yesterday' d were present at yesterday's meeting except Hellmuth, O'Reilly, and Rockefeller. 


Rich Harrow, theauthor ofsports violenceandthe law, spokelast nightto a 
•crowd at the Library. (photo by Greg Mauer) 

Muskie questions hostage trade 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Was 
this the "October surprise"? 
Or was it just a day of rumor feeding on rumor, a snake of speculation swallowing its own tail, hope coinciding with hap­penstance? 
In Chicago, a televisioq station reports, over and over, that the 52 American hostages are about to be returned to the United States. 
"A deal is in the works," insists news director Tom Kuelbs. 
In Windsor Locks, Conn., a campaigning President Carter extends a hand to embattled Iran. He is willing to meet with Iran's prime minister, who is making an unexpected appear­ance at the United Nations. Iran, after months of isolation, is 
(continued on page 15) 
AN All-LUTHERAN REFORMATION FESTIVAL 

IN THE 450TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE AUGSBURG CONFESSION 
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1980 
4:00P.M. Pre-Service Music Begins at 3:45p.m. 
GOOD SHEPHERD LUTHERAN CHURCH 
SPECIAL MUSIC 
AN ALL-LUTHERAN JOINT CHOIR; PAT HEIDEN TRIO; SHERI SUTTON. FLAUTIST; 
MUSIC OF SCHUTZ, LENEL, BUNJES, PACHELBEL 
GUEST SPEAKER: 
FR. BERNARD R. PALKA 
Executive Director of URC 
Good Shepherd Lutheran Church, South Bend is located at 1021 Manchester Drive just 7 blocks north of U.S. 20 (in McKinley Terrace addition) and. 4 blocks west of McKinley Town & Country Shopping Center, Mishawaka. 



Friday, October 17, 1980 -1page 7




Editorials 

by Garry Trudeau 

inconsequential that the Supreme Court decision in of legalized abortion was 
upon a right to privacy develop­ed for the legalization of the distribution of contraceptives. Or perhaps it is merely coin­cidence that the many organ­izations such as Planned Parenthood as well as religious bodies which see unwanted pregnancies as a "disease" also 
consider  contraception  and  
backstop  abortions  as  the  
"cure."  

Once ..a child is considered in the category of ei.ther being wanted or unwanted as a thing ordained for .the fulfillment of the couple, such a "thing" is easily disposed of. Contraception accepted in this broad cultural context, neces­sarily places human life in this category. 
But contraception is not im­moral merely because it is associated with greater societal evils such as abortion. It is an unacceptable and intolerable artificial intrusion into the divine love that unites a man and woman. This is the alienation that our culture breeds. Robert Gilbert 
Notre Dame Grand Prix Michael Onufrak 
University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh 
announced yesterday that Notre Dame will 
sponsor Formula I auto racing this spring in 
conjunction with An Tostal. 
Hesburgh's announcement came at the Board 
of Trustees meeting held at the University club. 
The plan was the suggestion of several Board 
members from Chicago who have been impressed 
with that city's plan to hold a similar race there 
next year. 
. The race, to be run throughout the ND campus, 
ts yet another controversial fund-raising project 
designed to improve the ND endowment without 
another tuition increase. Earlier this semester 
Hesburgh announced that ND "would legalize 
gambling on campus and convert the remains of 
St. Ed's Hall into a gambling casino/hotel 
complex. 
Hesburgh also announced yesterday that the University will not be picking up an option from a prominent west coast movie house to film Urban SMC Chick on ND's campus. Notre Dame was rumored to have been guaranteed a fifteen percent take from the film's net profits. The deal 
· racing. McStewart, author of the respected tome on bar etiquette Why Goose's Should be Rebuilt so the Springsteen Crowd has a Place to Drink, presented a three-point construction plan to the board to "ready the campus for race day." 
"To begin with, McStewart said, "the new Stepan chemistry hall can be easily converted into a five-story garage. This will produce not only an excellent facility for car maintenance on race day, it will also house the college of science's newest major, front end alignment." 
He noted that the new major is expected to be popular and consistent with the University's policy of a liberal education. 
"Secondly, I will issue a directive to security 
· tomorrow to begin to let any car which is consistent with NASCAR regulations to be ad­mitted onto campus at the security officer's 

was in conjunction with nearby Saint Mary's College, which would have supplied over 500 female extras festooned in Western regalia. 
"We chose the race option over the film because of the actor's strike in Hollywood and uncertainty over our legal right to infringe on the ND-SMC Theatre's exclusive rig'hts in this area," Hesburgh 
said. "Not only would the movie have been a risky adventure for a Catholic university, but auto racing is already very popular in this state as evidenced by the success of the Indy 500 over the years," Hesburgh added. Urban SMC Chick is rumored to be rated PG. Hesburgh also said yesterday that Jaco McStewart, noted author and famed Irish ad­venturer/race car driver, will be retained by the university as assistant vice-president for auto 
Michael Onufrak is editorials editor of The Observer. 
Doonesbury 
University this morning signed a contract with the National Broadcasting Company to telvise same­day coverage of the race itself. This will entail the construction of a camera platform atop the Administration building, but this can be dis­mantled a week after the Grand Prix. 
When asked by a reporter whether or not ND's commitment to auto racing would compromise the tradition ofAn TostalMcStewart replied in the negative. 
"I think the race will give the festival some exposure it badly needs. I also think the decision to allow Mardi Gras to be held in St. Ed's casino will save the students a lot of time which they would otherwise spend building booths. We're also going to show the Bookstore finals and the chariot race before the Grand Prix.", 
He added that tickets will be available in the coming weeks. 
P. 0. Box Q 

Rust editorial inconsistent 
Dear Edttor, 
I was not surprised to note that Mark Rust's editorial in last Friday's issue of the Observer was of a confused nature. Contained therein were some opinions which, when analyzed are not consistent with the facts, let alone with the Spirit of Truth who guides the Church. 
Rust claims that there are many alienated young Catholics who fail to realize that they can dissent and remain Catholic. Are these "very Catholic young Catholics" just plain too dense not to identify "with so many others of the same faith" in­cluding "so many clergy?" If there is such a majority of American Catholics with whom they agreed and this would certainly seem to be the case, then from whom are they really alienated? My own personal be­lief is that such aloneness in a crowd stems in actuality, from a personal alienation from oneself, or from one's true self however inaccurately perceived. 
Rightly, Rust · considers the problem to be cultural, though he offers no reason for it other then being a theological problem as well. He claims that "changing sexual mores" are best under­stood sociologically. This is absurd. Are Christians to believe that their Lord is not the Lord of culture, but somehow subject to diverse and changing customs? 
Contrary to his view, Pope Paul VI based the encyclical J!i/manae Vitae not on "partial perspectives-whether of the bio­logical or psychological demo­graphis or sociological orders,:· but instead "in light of an in­tegral vision of man and of his vocation, not only his natural and earthly, but also his super­natural and eternal vocation." Such is the difference between sociology and authoritative interpretation of the nature of 
man. 

But as I have alluded to earlier, the problem is a cultural one. There would certainly seem to be in our culture many elements which are directly opposed to the Christian understanding of man. 
At the cultural level-the level on which Rust desires to analyze the phenomenon of "changing sexual mores" -one can easily reject his claim that contracept­tion and abortion cannot at all be linked. 
At issue is a basic change in attitude towards the sexual union of man ·and woman. Increasingly in this culture, this union is seen tc be temporary, self-serving, and not ordained towards the creation of new life. Contraception is as related to abortion as separation is to divorce. They need not both occur together in the same act, but one never occurs without the other. 
Abortion is a further expres­sion of this cultural contracep­tive mentality. Contraception is one of the first active disruptions of the Christian unified view of human sexuality as a whole greater than its artificially separated elments of unification and procreation. 
Perhaps Rust considers it 
Editorial Board and Department Managers



Ihe Observer.== 

Editor-in-Chief............... Paul Mullaney Sports Editor................. Beth Huffman 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Managing Editor ................. Mark Rust Features Editor ............... Molly Woulfe 
'(he Observer . an ind~pendent newspaper published by the students of rhe 
Editorials Editor.. ............ Mike Onufrak Photo Editor........•.......... .John Macor
of~<?tr~ Dame du ~~and. Saint ~ary'~ C<?llese. It does not necessarily 

Senior Copy Editor ............. Lynne Daley 
the pohcle!: ':lf the admmlstrauon of etther mstttuuon. The news is reponed Business Manager .............. Greg Hedges 
Executive News Editor ........ Tom Jackman
~cc_urately and _as ?bjectively as possible,-Edit~ri~ls represent the opinion of a Controller ....................... .Jim Rudd of theE(1JronaJ Board..Com~entanes, opm10ns, and letters are the views , News Editor .................. Pam Degnan Advertising Manager .............. Mark Ellis authors.. Cdumn S,llace 1s 3:vallable to all members of the community, and I SMC Executive Editor......... Margie Brassil · Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . Beth Hackett free expressiOn of varymr "PiniOns on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC News Editor ............. Mary Leavitt Production Manager .......... .John McGrath 
he Observer Friday, October 17, 1980-.page 8 


P.O.BoxQ 
English professor right on time 
Dear Editor, 
A complaint has been directed against me for interrupting a Math exam in Computer Sciences 227, an interruption that occurred thirteen minutes after the scheduled 9:5 5 ending 
ofa9MWF class. Mayidrawyour attention to the following para­graph from the 1980-1981 Faculty Manual, which governs professional conduct at this university: 
Classes should not extend past the established ending time un­less specific arrangements for a special class meeting period have been made with the Office ofthe Registrar. (This is necessary so that the next class assigned to the room may begin on time.) 
No such arrangements were, in fact, made with the Registrar's Office. No such arrangements, furthermore, were arranged pri­vately with me beforehand 
I am frankly surprised that a classroom of mathematicians doesn't know how to tell time. 
Thomasjemieltty Associate Professor ofEnglish 
Story shows discrimination continues 
Dear Editor, 
Times have surely changed. Ten 
years ago Mary Fran Callahan's 
Rely Tampon article would n~ver 
have merited front page attention. 
It still doesn't today. 
Maybe that's one reason the 
MeN ally poll revealed that 60 
percent of ND-SMC women feel 
they are discriminated against. I 
don't disagree wi~h the printing of 
the article -just it s placement on 
the front page. How about a little 
respect? 
Kathy Shea 
Differences exist in cand1dates 
Dear Editor, 
Anthony Walton seems to 
suffer from several traditional 
liberal phobias, the primary 
one being a fear of anyone to 
the right of George McGovern. 
His editorial of October 1 is a 
mish-mash of falsehoods, truth 
and depression. I would like to 
respond to several of his argu­
ments. 
Walton's claim that there is 
no real difference between 
Reagan and Carter exhibits 
naivete. Walton claims that the 
only differences are on social 
issues such as abortion and 
ERA. Unless he is using radi­
cally different definitions, I 
find this hard to understand. 
There is a huge difference 
between Caner and Reagan on 
defense spending, which Car­
ter has only partially alieviated 
because he doesn't want ot 
look too soft on our dear 
Russian friends. It was only 
after Reagan took a hard ling 
and Carter realized the issue's 
importance that he suddenly 
became a demi-hawk. Speaking 
of defense, how about their 
position's on the draft? 
There are many other dif­ferences which I could deal with, but the dearest and most ticket. I politely asked him what both of these rights by Officer the problem was, but all he


Fan questions Wolfarth. 
would say was that my ticket was This incident deeply hurts my 
now his ticket. Trying not to pride, my family's pride, and thestadium ethics cause a scene, I exited the row pride of all of our avid Notre 
and told my story to the usher Dame friends. I believe not onlycontinued, or tried to continue, Dear Edtfor, who I had just previoously shown has Officer Wolfarth totally dis­America's second child-hood of I am writing to you in regard to my ticket to. I asked him what I regarded the law, but so did all ofthe 60's, when everybody could a recent incident that occured on should do about the matter, and the Indiana State Police wholook to sugar-daddy govern-September 20, 1980 on the he instructed me to speak to the were in my presence. I am sure by ment to take care of them. The campus of the University of head usher, "the man in the now it should be clear to you thatChrysler bailout and this Notre Dame. Being an avid white hat." this incident has left a huge soreweek's actions on propping up Notre Dame fan as far back as I Before doing this I reminded spot in my heart for the feelings I the steel industry are only two can remember, I feel ·it is im­him that I had shown him my have towards the greatestexamples (the latter one: taking perative that what happened be ticket. At this time the usher University in the country. Iplace mainly because Caner brought to your attention. The stated, and I quote, "If there is regret this ever took place as I amneeds Pennslyvania to win in incident that I am about to any problem or question about sure you do after reading thisNovember). Has anybody in 11 h 1 
the Federal Government looked describe was tota y umi iating my having possession of a ticket letter. I am writing so as to deter actoss the Atlantic to Great and embarrassing not only to that I will back your story. this from ever happening again. Britain? They are in an eco-myself, but to my family, and all After speaking with the head I will try not to let this dampernomic mess at the moment of our friends who enthusiasti­usher, he asked me to wait while my admiration towards the precisely because they have cally follow ~otre Dame_. I only he went to get the Indiana State University of Notre Dame, but government ownership and/or hope that this letter wlll fully Police. this day will remain in mysponsorship of every major describe the horror thatI was put Officer Wolfarth of the thoughts for a long, long time. industry in the country. And "-through. Indiana State Police escorted me where has this gotten them? On Saturday morning my . to the small jail cell next to Gate They are even farther behind brother, a friend, and myself 11. He very rudely told me to in the modernization of factor-travelled 250 miles from Saint Women's
have a seat inside of the cell. 
ies than we are. In shon, they Clair Shores, Michigan down to Upon questioning him he re­
have subsidized all of the South Bend to see the Notre peated that I should take a seat, Art Albatrosses that they could get Dame vs. Michigan football and forcefully sat me down. 
thei~ hands on, and true to the game. We did not arrive on time, Dear Editor,
Never throughout the confron­
maxliD, they have been for the second quarter had just I am writing in regard to my
tation with Officer Wolfarth did 
dra~ged into deep water: !'Jo begun. Our seat numbers article published on October 10,
he try to ask me what had 
~auon ~an afford to su~sidtze separated us within the stadium. dealing with the art of Louise
happened. He left me in the jail
tndustnes ~hat ar~ mism~n-we all entered the staduim Pierucci Holeman. Not only was 
cell and returned after a brief 
age~ or be~md the tliDes. G:tve through gate 11. I handed the the headline The Observer af­
absence.

t~ tncenttves for modermza-ticket taker my ticket first, and forded it a definite literary faux 
Upon his return he told me to 
tton as R~aga~ proposes, ye~, the other two followed. pas, but it served only to tinge
follow him. It was at this time
but don t gtve everybod_Y s We had previously decided one's interprtation of the article,
that I assumed the matter hadmoney to keep Chrysler gomg th ld if not alienate a segment of thefor two more years, lthat is that after. e game we ~ou been cleared up; my assumption reading audience all togehter.
foolish. Rea~an's emphasis on meet_outst_deG~te_ll.Asthtswas was incorrect. He proceeded to My article explained thatthe productiOn side of econo-my first ti~e mside the Notre escort me outside the stadium, Holeman's art is women's art
mics via the Kemp-Roth stra-Dame stadmm, I sudd~nly fo~nd not allowing me to find out why I tegic zone tax plan is what is myself surrounde~ with excite­was being escorted out. In trying because "it is born in emotions needed. Give industry a break ment and enthusiasm for the to question Officer Wolfarth, I that work their way outward, from all of the governm•ent red cheering fans. was informed that II persisted in thus presenting an insight that is tape and just plain idiotilc rules Upon approaching Section 23, questioning him I would wind up intrinsically female". Instead, and then we will have econ<}-Row44, Seat21, there happened in jail. He then started . to and in contradistinction to this mic advancement. No, I am not to be an usher at the end of my physically shove me outside the statement, the headline intro­advocation the destruction of row to whom I promptly showed stadium grounds. Being in a duced the story as "The Feminist the environment or the raping my ticket. He instructed me that strange state, I don't mind saying Art of Louise Pierucci of the common lahore~, but we my seat was somewhere in the that I was scared. Holem·m". can cut a lot of fooltsh fides row. As I proceeded in the row I With three years of college in Fem.nist art and women's art long befor we get that far. The had my ticket in my right hand. the field ofaccounting at Wayne are quite differnt forms of ex­problem .results because soy-After I crawled over several State University and aspirations pressi.:m, The fe111inist label ernment ts not a pro~ucer, ~t ts people, a man_ who I thought ofpursuing that field oflaw, I feel implies certain political as well as at best o'lly . an meffic~e~t was trying to be helpful asked I was treated with a grave in-ideological overtones that real_lo~ator, wh~ at worst tt ts me_ my seat number. 1 Holeman's w01k does not
justice. Not knowing a great dea a suflmg b~rden that consumes As I showed hi~ my ticket, he 
about Indiana law I do know that attemp to convey. Thse two more than It r~allocates. , grabbed it from my hand, an~ what Officer Wolfarth did to me terms CaDP.ot be r'lndornly inter­I agree wtth Walton s informed me that it was now his was in violaton of my human changed without 1 drastic altra­
assessment ofCarter, he is like rights-no matter what state of tion in the meaning of the a peanut M&M, candy coated the union I am visiting. Not only critique.

on the outside but hard and The Observer welcomes let­
do I have freedom of speech It is the respcn"'ibility of a 
mean on the inside. He is ters from its readers. Letters 
afforded to me under the First newspaper to height~n itsgoing to rank as one of the should be typed, double­Amendment but also the right readers awareness. In the mterestpremief political manipulators spaced and signed. To ins~re to question 'why I was wrongly ofeducation, and in ~o~g j_us~ce
of all time. swift publication, the wnter 
escorted from the most exciting ' to Ms. Holt:I?~n, this dtstincton 
should include his or her phone 
football game of my lifetime. I mus · bt> clarif1ed.
number. Names are witheld at 
Bnan Farb the editor's discretion. feel I was prevented from having TerriL. Cafaro 
. -. -..... --
...... '"' ....
-

-_• ,·, ~ I -o1 "·._ L·a. I·,.·. • 
' .. liP".~ .. """: 


'*************Finer Dining************* An Observer Features Supplement Highlighting Area Restaurants ***********"********Friday, October 17, 1980"*******************page9  
Quality & Quantity At Doc Pierce's Scoop Sullivan Doc Pierce's, located some distance from campus, is well worth the twenty minute drive into downtown Mishawaka. The only way you can go wrong with Doc Pierce's is by not going there. The quality of the entrees overshadows any limitations of the rather small menu, featuring American favorites like steak, shrimp, and sandwiches. Not only is the food superbly prepared, but the relaxed atmosphere ("casual but neat" are the bywords) enables one to fully enjoy a hearty meal without the The Best in constricting tightness of a necktie or one's best dress. Aged SteaksBut the most prominent plus for Doc's is the reasonable cost. No restaraunt 120 N. Main Streetis cheap these days, but this one comes very, very close, and given the Downtown, Mishawaka~extraordinary quality offood, it is without question the best dinner buy in the area. 255-7737 The secret to Doc Pierce's success lies in its management. Unlike most for reservations other dining establishments in South Bend, Doc's is privately owned, and not Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. part of a nationwide restaurant chain or company. As a result, profit is not a Dinner 5:00P.M. major consideration; rather, pride in service and food quality comes first. Closed Sundays & Holidays South Bend native Bruce Tassell, owner ofDoc Pierce's, told The Observer that above all, he wants a place to be proud of, not embarrassed with. He has hired several managers throughout the four-year history of the restaraunt on a profit-sharing basis and has found some superior staff to run the various A bit more expensive but well worth the price is the shrimp. Mr. Tassell phases of the business. Incidentally, most ofthese managers are young Notre personally selects the genuine Texas Gulf shrimp each year on annual Dame/Saint Mary's grads. , excursions to that great state. Not only are the shrimp huge (a full. four inches Doc Pierce's small, wood-grained atmosphere is always full, but never long and at least an inch thick), but their tender white meat seethes with the crowded. However, reservations are required. gentle flavor of that marvelous treat. Highly recommended is the New York Strip, a full inch-and-a-half ofaged, Other plusses for Doc's include their onion rings, which are also an inch tender sirloin grilled to juicy perfection. One knows that the chefknows how thick and come in huge volumes, reasonable drink prices, and light French to prepare a steak, because when you ask for medium-rare, you get the full cream cheese cake, with strawberries if desired. marbled succulence ofmedium-rare. Included with the meal is a salad (the only Doc Pierce's has plenty offree parking and is located at 120 N. Main Street, disappointment of the meal-the dressings are a bit bland}, potato Mishawaka. Call for reservations at 255-7737. You'll be very glad you did. In (recommended-the steak fries, a heap so big no one will eat them all), and a this culinary connoisseur's opinion, Doc Pierce's is the finest restaurant full loaf of freshly baked pumpernickel or white bread, with whipped butter. ·around. ************************************************** IceHouse; Old Charm, Modern Menu Mark Ellis It sure doesn't look like a restaurant. It comes across more as a brick warehouse, tucked away in a far corner of the rustic 100 Center. Originally part ofJohn Wagner's 185 3 brewery, "The Ice House" stored ice, malt and THE ICE HOUSE RESTAURANT IN THE IOOCENTER. MISHAWAKA yeast for :~orne 70 years until a fire forced its closing. Not until just a few years ago was the entire brewery included in a massive conversion which left area people with the 100 Center, and specifically, The Ice House restaurant. The many levels of the Ice House have been restored Try Us For and redesigned, and now boast two lounges and a beautiful two-level dining facility complete with original beamed ceilings and brick and masonry walls. Coupled with the light of the dim cast iron chandeliers placed strategically Sunday Brunch throughout the complex, we truly felt the nostalgia, the historic importance of the Ice House. We stopped in for cocktails on the third level, in the "Eminent Victorian"11:00-2:00 lounge, just in time to catch "Silent Partner," a two-man guitarist band in their first set. The "EminentVictorian" features such live music on every Friday and Saturday night. It was just what we needed to stir our appetites. After a few Crosby, Stills, & Nash, Harry Chapin and Beatles tunes, we departed, and following a series ofwooden planks and stair casings, found ourselves in a cozy little booth on the second level of the charming dining room. Service was prompt. In no time we had returned from what was easily the most exotic salad bar either of us had seen. Not only did it feature a complete variety of salad garnishes, cheese, breads and vegetables, this one also boasted dried fruits and fresh walnuts, sunflower seeds, etc..We returned to our seats to find our second drinks waiting. My date asked me to refrain from trying to get her tipsy, that it wouldn't work anyway. I agreed. The food arrived almost at the same time we had finished our salads etc., but _ ~ COME SEE FOR '!OURSELF! there was so much and it looked so good, we didn't know where to begin. I ~""" . . YOU DON'T HAVE TO LOOK FAR went with the house specialty-Prime Rib and Greek Saganaki-while my TO FIND ... FUN.FOOD.FROLIC.AND date helped herself to stuffed flounder and deep fried mushrooms. All of the FESTIVITY MAY WE SUGGEST TAKING ON THE FUN AND entrees included salad bar, (as many trips as you care to make) and choice of FESTIVITY AT NOTRE DAME. THEN TAKE IN THE HISTORICAL potatoes. We ordered two rounds of au gratin potatoes. ICE HOUSE WHERE FROLIC AND FOOD ARE THEIR SPECIALTY Needless to say, the meal was exquisite. The portions were more than generous and cooked to perfection. We could hear the guitar music vaguely in the background. We did our best ~o finish everything. Mr. Jeff McKuen, Sharon and the rest of the staff bent over backwards to make our visit to The Ice House as pleasant as.ever. The bill, however, may have been the most pleasant part of the evening. It was surprisingly moderate, even for a poor college kid. __ .-.::..;t...~  

-------------------------------------. 
The Observer·**** Restaurants Restaurants Restaurants Restaurants Friday, October 17, 1980 -page 10 
---~~-­
.....,._ 
., .· ~~:%~:;::;: ..... 
On Deck at Moonraker's 

Select from over 75 delectable bruncheon 1te_ms in, ludin!.! 
Eggs BenediCt Fresh Fruits Rehsh Tr"vs French To.~st Desserts H,1m Pancakes Melons B<1COI1 Omelettes Appetizers Sausage Fresh Pastne:o Baked Fish Ju1ces Lox & Cream Cheese Chicken Salads Bdgf'ls Roast Beef PototO•'S 
Reservations Accepted 
234-4477 
300 Edst Coffdx 
Sunday D1nner 
• ' from At The River 5 to 9 P.M. 


L _j 

Dining out at Captain Alexander's Moonraker is like stepping out to sea. 
Not only is the restaurant's decor 
patterned after a ship, but the seafood 
served tastes as if it had been freshly 
pulled on deck and cooked directly 
from a fisherman's net. 
The Moonraker, which sits ona bank 
of the St. Joseph's river, is divided into 
three sections. On the main floor rests 
the elegant Singapore Room, the 
restaurant's most formal. The 
Fisherman's Wharf, also located on the 
first floor, has a less formal atmosphere 
complete with bar and booths. It's 
decor, however, is just as appealing as 
the Singapore Room's, for the 
authentic shiplike atmosphere 
pervades the entire building. 
Upstairs, Davy's Locker promises 
entertainment to an after-dinner 
crowd. It has a dance floor, and its dark 
atmosphere couplet! with sunken 
seating is quite conducive to between­
dance conversations. Drinks are also 
available. 
My companion and I dined in the 
Singapore Room where service was 
unsurpassable. Drinks were served 
promptly. Our waitress, Janet, spoiled 
us with personalized, courteous 
service and even provided additional 
background on several of the menu's 
dishes-those with which we were 
unfamiliar. Sans requests, water glasses 
were refilled contiqually throughout 
the meal. 
A word no less than "charming" can 
accurately reflect the Singapore 
Room's atmosphere. One wall of the 
Room is glassed and looks upon the 
river. Since a deck (which diners can 
stroll on) encircles the restaurant, one 
gets the feeling ofdining on an elegant 
vessel. Tables are spaced well, so a 
diner need not compete with the next 
Mary Fran Callahan 
table's conversation. Menus in the form of miniature masts enhance the decor. Lighting is also handled beautifully, for candles sit atop every table while lanterns casts soft lights on the main floor. 
Appetizers are available, and I would 

recommend the shrimp-which are 
incredibly fresh and served with a tasty 
sauce. The salad bar is another wonder, 
for it features three kinds of baked 
bread (kept warm), plus five dressings 
and an extensive assortment of 
toppings. A liter of wine is included 
with the Ceasar Salad. 
Served in warm butter, a side dish of 

sauteed mushrooms complements any 
entree. Entrees, by the way, are 
reasonable, for portions are extremely 
generous and quality is not lost in 
quantity. Price varies, however, from 
the Boston Scrod at $7.95 to the 
$12.95 Lobster Tail & Steak. 
One asset ofthe restaurant's menu is 

the Land/Sea combination. A 
customer can sample both steak and 
seafood, for halfthe entree is meat; the 
other half, seafood. 
Scallops were very tender and coated with just the right amount of batter. Steak was thick, juicy and simply delicious. My companion ni.ted the lobster par excellence, and our waitress even removed the lobster from its shell when she served it. 
If you can muster thoughts of dessert after dinner, consider the cheesecake. Baked with a nut crust, it is especially tasty. Apple pie a Ia mode is greatly enhanced when accompanied by the house's hot rum sauce. 
Captain Alexander's Moonraker merits an excellent recommendation for its atmosphere lives up to its food: and its food, so fresh, greatly complements the shiplike atmosphere. 
Steak &Aii3'& A Whole Lot More
/ . . ' 

Mike MeSally, _ 
from Town and to 10 p;m. on 
p.m. on Sundays. 
across from Town &Country Shopping Center 

.._---... _._.. -here tsteak, prime Rib and Sea Food 
ment~. 



I 
! 
! 
Michael Onufrak's favorite South Bend eating spots for off-campus students with only five dollars after the rent .is due: 
1) The Commons·· Without doubt your best buy and convenient to campus (located across the street from Corby's in five points district). Three bucks gets you a large bowl of chili, a hot ham and cheese sandwich, and a Drewry's (classic midwestern brew) on tap. Atmosphere unpretentious and service quick. •• 
2) Band L Barbecue--Located on Rte. 31 in Niles, Michigan. Perhaps a bit out of the way; but worth the drive. Recommended to off-campus students not only for exquisite cuisine, but also for large portions. Onion rings and large ham and beef sandwiches your ~est deal. Serves schooners of beer on Sundays. 
3) Lee's Ribs--If you don't know about Lee's by now you're cheating yourself out of an education. Try the tips with medium sauce (true aficianados know super hot hides subtle flavor), with extra hot on the fries. Disco music often overplayed, but occasional reggae break is refreshing. · 
4) Shirley's--Open all night. Stay away from chili and any other dish you can't see all of. Omelettes and other breakfast fare cheap and us~ally JUSt 
I 
I I 
I 
..::::,_,:,····· 
I 
l ~ 
1 

-
The Observer ****·Restaurants Restaurants Restaurants Restaurants Friday, October 17, 1980 -page 11 

Faring Well on a Student Btidget 
Mike Onufrak · right for late night or early morning scene. Located at Twyckenham and Mishawaka Aves. ' , 
5) Sub Machine--Located on Lincolnway near the lPO Center and included because fast food is a tragic fact of life. There is no outstanding sub shop west of Harrisburg from what I have seen. Nostalgic Easterners can get by here with a little imagination. Double meat turkey a good choi,:e. Easily filled up for five bucks. 
I 

6)Shakey's Pizza·-Three dollars and twenty five cents gets you all you can eat from 5 p.m. to 7:30p.m. Choice of pizza, chicken, spaghetti, and several extras. AU o·c students who have missed lunch know that bulk is important, so this deal is particularly attractive. Get there early since lines can be long. Located at 3213 ~· Edison. 
7) The Huddle--Another sad reality for _the o-c student. Everyone has their own approach to this establishment which has a monopoly on the noon meal. I have learned to avoid the special and concemrate on the deli. My favorite is turkey and swiss which is more expensive than the special, but contains far less grease. " 
This dish can. ~e supplemented with yogurt and milk rendering it somt;what nutrttlou. s and less bland. Also superior to the usual Huddle fare 1s the soup. Best bet: pack lunch yourself. 
··· ····=nf 

Taste &Civility at Tippecanoe Place 
Taste and civility in equal balance greet you at Tippecanoe Place, perhaps South Bend's finest restaurant. But the stately ambience does notovershadow the fare, which is exceptional. 
A lover ofold gothic mansions will be enchanted by Tippecanoe Place even before the congenial table captain has bid him welcome. The restaurant is located in the old Studebaker mansion on Washington Street(take a right off Michigan for two blocks) and the building has been beautifully restored as part ofan historic building project undertaken by the Southold restoration group and the restaurant's owners (a subsidiary ofRalstotVPurina). The architecture may be described by some as early Jacobian, though others may simply label it late 19th Century Victorian. 
Upon entering through massive oak front doors into the towering foyer one is immediately struck by the meticulous attention paid to detail in the restoration. It is evident in the ornate bronze and wood sculpting around the hearth, moulding and walls. The high-back Victorian chairs and solid wood tables add to the turn-of-the-century theme. Particularly impressive is the manner in which the house is left intact: With only one exception, no walls have been knocked out-a common occurrence in buildings restored for commercial use, where space and cost are factors. 
For the guest interested in libations the second floor holds a very civil lounge, frequently filled with the soft strains of a pianist whose baby grand piano is one ofthe room's focal points. Constant communication between the dining room, table captain and cocktail hostess ensures a relaxing drink before the diner is informed his table is ready. 
But the food is the thing, and here is where Tippecanoe excels. My dining companion and I were escorted down the stairs to an elegant room on the lower level-the "billiards room." Each dining room at Tippecanoe is a room named for its original purpose. Thus, one may find oneself dining in the library (a lovely book-lined den just offthe foyer), Ann's bedroom (one ofmany small dining rooms), or the sun room (a slightly less formal, more wicker-oriented 


Mark Rust 

room perfect for a late afternoon lunch in diffuse sunlight). 
Our waiter was proper in the relaxed manner of one who enjoys his work. 
After presenting the menus and explaining the chef's specials of the day, he 
disappeared to let us sip our drinks and mull over the tasty possibilities. 
We chose to share delicately breaded, fried cauliflower. Indicative of the 
care Tippecanoe places in the preparation of their food is the texture of their 
vegetables. The cauliflower, like the Brussels sprouts that followed with our 
entrees, were fresh and crisp, obviously steamed so that the flavor and essence 
remained while the mushy mess that some vegetables turn into was avoided. 
Our salads were impeccable as well. The lettuce was, again, crisp and fresh, 
and the dressing did not run away with itself. Instead its subtle spice gave the 
palate a hint of things to come, readying the salivary glands for the keenly 
awaited entree. · 
My friend chose one ofthe specials ofthe day, Chicken Maryland, baked in a sauce of white wine and cream forming a perfect marriage with the flavor of the fowl. I also enjoyed a special, Baked Halibut, which basked in a sauce of cheese and lemon. No one taste took precedence over others in the dish. Rather, the sensations blended into a satisfying whole accenting the fresh fish, accompanied by a light rice pilaf. 
To accent our meal we shared a pleasant bottle of California Pinot Chardonay, a light, airy wine reasonably priced ($10.95). The wine selection, like the menu, is quite adequate and still in the process ofgrowing as the new restaurant, opened seven months ago, continues to expand its offerings. At present, plans include a gourmet room that will open as soon as "we find a chef who meets our standards," according to Mike Davies, assistant manager. 
Prices at Tippecanoe place are very reasonable, given its atmosphere and service. Most entrees are in the $6.95-$10.95 range, and are well worth the cost. Reservations are accepted on weekdays. Tippecanoe Place is a national historic landmark, and, based on what we saw and tasted, it could become a gastronomic landmark as well. 

There's No Place Like Our Place! 
-entertainment in the lounge 6 nights a week -weekday lunches from 11 :00 to 2:00 
dinner served from 5:00 to 10:00 (ti111 on Friday and from 4:30 to 11 on Saturday) -Sunday Brunch from 11 :00 to 3:00 
-Sunday Dinner 4:00 to 9:00 and, most importantly, the finest food and atmosphere in Michiana! 
620 W('st Washington. South Hend. H('S('fWttions avctilahle. Phone: 2:~-1-9077 

.. ~.......... ··-.. 

The Observer**** Restaurants Friday, October 17, 1980 -page 12
Restaurants Restaurants Restaurants 

Jeremiah Swee~ey's; Exotically Mellow 
Ifyou are tired oftheme restaraunts, those polyester places ofpleasure that sprang up in the mid seventies offering loads of contrived atmosphere (often serving as a false front for mediocre food), then you will like Jeremiah Sweeney's. 
The plain, box-like exterior of the milding belies the lush innovative nterior. The atmosphere is derived 
·rom a multi-level design. The dining :.rea is separated into a number of ;mailer, intimate areas. The overall 
effect is sumptuous, and definitely :onducive to romance. 
Upon first entering, you see the ounge. It, like the dining area, is livided into many individual environs. 1estled amongst greenery. One area 1as a fireplace. On many nights, nellow string music is performed in ~eeping with the setting. Drinks are 
·erved with a flare that makes even a nundane scotch and soda interesting. '\. number of exotic house specials are 
offered including an item called: "the Moose River Hummer". 
After being seated, guests are presented with a combination wine list and appetizer menu. The appetizers are the same as those available in the lounge, and include a number ofitems rare to Hoosierland, like a personal favorite, guacamole. Thewinelisthasa wide selection of reasonably priced house wines, and an extensive array of the more expensive vintage bottles. We tried the house rose and found it a tasteful, mellow blend. 
The dinner menu is the best in the Michiana area. It has a wide variety of ·meats and fish, plus a few items like a 
special Mexican entree 0at add true diversity. Other items of particular interest are scallops, Alaskan king crab legs, and Chicken Alfredo. The range of steaks includes prime rib and porterhouse. 
Included with the entree is a trip to what Sweeney's somewhat pompously calls its United Nations Salad Bar. I wouldn't call it international, but I would call it good. In addition to the standard iceberg lettuce, choice of dressings and raw vegetables, there are several other salads-cucumbers in cream, and marinated legumes. Despite the images the name conjures, the liver patee was delicate and moist. Other offerings included, fresh bread, herring in cream, a multitude of fresh fruits, and for the elitist, caviar. Special mention should be made of the 
croutons, which are the best I have ever had; they're crispy, yet they melt in your mouth,a delightful, rare combination. Also available is a hearty vegetable soup. 
One must fight the temptation to gorge oneselfat the salad bar, because the entrees are worth savoring every bite. I had the prime rib, which 
. Sweeney's prepares using a method few restaurants bother with. The care was evident in the results I received. The large slab of meat was cooked to perfection, and it's tenderness almost made a knife unnecessary. My companion had the '''Steak Neptune" 
which consisted ofa fllet smothered in a bernaise sauce and topped with King Crab legs, and an artichoke heart. It was, in her words, "excellent." 
For those still able, a tempting diversity of desserts is offered Featured is the renowned Haagen-daz brand of ice cream, heralded for its 
Supplement Design by 
Molly Woulfe•Mary Dum1n 


Ad Design by

Bruce Oakley•Dave Wood 

Ryan Ver Berkmoes 

GO IRISH 

LUNCH Mon.· Sat. 11:00 · 4:30 
t 
N

DINNER Mon.· Thurs. 5:00. 10:00 Fri. · Sat. 4:30 · ll:00 


Sun. ll:OO · 10 :00 
Douglas
NO 

PHONE :lTI-6368 
ACROSS FROM UNIVERSITY PARK MALL ON GRAPE ROAD 


creaminess. 
Prices at Jeremiah Sweeney's are what you would expect from a restaurant of it's caliber: Dinners range from$? to $12. When compared to other establishments that charge the same yet offer less, Sweeney's is quite reasonable. Guests at the restaurant can expect an evening that will leave all their senses pleased. The unique atmosphere, superb food, lavish service and delightful imbibements all add up to a winning combination for Sweeney's and the patrons. . 
1



"**************************-.J(**********'*************''
SOMETHING COMPLETELY DIJPERENT 

John Macor & Molly Woulfe 
The Saga of'S~GA 
The immediately striking feature of the Saga Food Service dining halls is their atmosphere. Having been accustomed to a sedate and serene candle-lit dinner ofveal cordon bleu with a bottle of Chateau de Rochelle, my culinary experience at Notre Dame could at best be described as an experience with a "nouvelle cuisine." Quite nouvelle. 
The lack of a "maitre de" could be described as appalling; however, I prefer to refer to it as barbaric. The seating arrangements showed an absolute lack of taste, as I was seated next to a Neanderthal who insisted upon consuming his pork with the delicacy ofa starved wolf. However, he insisted that this rancourous deed was a necessity owing its origin to the consistency of this meat. To further demonstrate his point, this savage attempted to tenderize his pork by beating it mercilessly on his plate. Hasn't anyone here heard of the "Burgundy marinate?" 
To equally complement the lack ofa "maitrede" is the non-existence of"les garcons." After silently fuming for two hours for a waiter to approach with the wine list, a replica of my previous Neanderthal neighbor'informed me (with the graciousness ofa jackass) that I was expected to fend for my own food. Thus, I approached the service line. The details ofthis experience will have to be saved for a later review of the horror: "Phantom ofthe Opera" as my life was shortened by twenty years. 
•Equally terrifying, but more humiliating was the ordeal ofthe salad bar. After getting bruised, battered, and buffetted innumerable times in my valiant efforts to reach the salad bar, I was reduced to assuming the tactics of this crowd to reach my destination. I lowered my head and propelled myself toward this salad bar. Despite completing the arduous journey, my efforts were for naught.. What was referred to as the salad bar was nothing more than some simple lettuce with some supposed dressings. The lettuce was ofa variety that I have never seen; it was brown in color. And, curiously; the croutons were green. Needless to say, this review can not cover the salad bar, as I was thoroughly repulsed. 
Returning to my seat amidst this confusing, loud hubbub, I regretfully viewed the main course. I was fortunate enough to avoid the pork, but cursed to have chosen the casserole. Assuming that its contents were rightfully dead, I assaulted my palate with this matter. Normally I would have referred to it as food simply out of kindness, but this was an extreme case of inhumane treatment which will be reptJrted to the United Nations. I can say no further on the main course since my doctors have advised me to avoid situations which raise my blood pres~ure. 
In the same vein, I wish to avoid the dessert list, as it causes me to recoil in gastronomical horror. The frozen custard was tolerable, but the rum cake reeked ofsomething other than rum. I think that it had a similar odor to ..... 
Ed. 's note; reporter collapsedfrom food poisoning before completing this review, but is expected to recover. 

Features 

Friday, October 17, 1980 -page 13 
How Sweet It Is 
Ah, yes, life on a Christian campus. 
Lynn, a friend, lives in a single directly across from an alcove con­taining several vending machines. Although Lynn is occasionally awakened at 4 a.m. by cans thumping from the Pepsi machine, she likes her room's location, as she is a junk food junkie herself. 
Well, Lynn liked her room's location. 

One afternoon, not long ago, she was studying history notes at her desk when someone rapped at her door. A short, elderly man in workclothes peered inside. He was holding a heavy­looking box. '"Scuse me, miss, but I carried this in and left my keys in my truck," he said apologetically. "Can I set this down here for a minute?" 
"Sure." The man eased the box to the floor and left. Lynn tilted back in her chair and craned her neck. The box was lined with Hershey bars, Clark Bars, M & M's, and other goodies. Lynn, a chocolate fiend, studied the assortment longingly, then returned to Peter the Hermit and Walter the Penniless. 
Carol, a girl from down the hall, strolled in, snapping her gum. "Hey, got any typing pa-hey, you get a package from home? Wow, look at all this stuff!" 

"No, a workman set it down for a minute," explained Lynn. 
"Yeah? No kidding? Pig out!" Carol reached down and grabbed a handful of candy bars. Curious faces appeared in the doorway. 
"Hey... " Lynn began. "Wow, Doublemint, too!" the other girl chortled, pawing past M & M's. 
p~: 

"What'sgoing on?" someone asked. 
"Free candy! The workman left it!" Carol proclaimed, stufffing candy into the designer pockets of her Calvil, Kleins. 
In an instant, the room was .a zoo, with girls knocking over plants, step­ping on albums, elbowing, and jostling, to get at the candy. A slight 
Molly Woulfe 

scuffle began when two girls grabbed 
for the same package of Chuckles at 
the same time. One girl shoved the 
other. Another potted plant bit the 
dust. The second girl shoved back. 
Someone pushed them both aside. 
By now Lynn, normally a pacifist, had Had It. She grabbed a halfeaten Hershey bar from Carol, who sent her sprawling against the desk. Someone took a swing at Carol. Shouts, fists, and . Chuckles filled the air. 
Let it be noted here that every girl in the room, at this moment, was from a "good" home, h:ld at least one checkbook and/or credit card, and was not in danger ofstarving before dinner. 
The workman stood in the doorway. Punches froze in mid-swing, and then everyone stampeded from the room, except for Lynn. Doors slammed up and down the hall, and then it was quiet. 
The workman looked at the tipped plants, at the chocolate crushed into the carpet, at Lynn's face. He picked up the half-empty box, reached into it, and silently handed Lynn a Mars Bar. Then he left, shaking his head. 
A morC:cynical-than-before Lynn keeps the Mars Bar on her desk. "The next time Carol walks into this room," she vows grimly, "I'm going to break this over her head." 
OVER THE HilL? HARDLY· 
Charlie Brown &Gang Hit 30, but Going Strong 

Chllrlea Schulz 
Thirty years ago United Features Syndicate began distributing a new comic strip about a pint-sized sad sack with a round head and a slightly prec~cious dog .. The origi­nal client ltst was JUSt seven newspapers--the Washington Post, Chicago Tribune, Allentown Call­Chronicle, Bethletown Globe­Times, Denver Post, Minneapolis Star-Tribune, and Seattle Times. The strip caught on. Its popularity grew and grew and it still hasn't stopped. Today it is read by more than 60 million people every day in 1,800 newspapers, includ10g The Observer. Good ~rief, Charlie Brown! "Peanuts ' is 30 this month. 
The universal appeal of "Pea­nuts" ac.counts for us spectacular 
I I I I I ~ f; I • 
success. The strip is translated into 22 forei~n languages for news­papers 10 64 foreign countries. None of the humor or warmth is lost in the translation. Somehow, the "Peanuts" gang--Charlie Brown, Linus, Lucy, Schroeder, Woodstock, Peppermint Patty, and of course Snoopy--touch all of us. That is the unique genius of their creator, Charles "Sparky" Schulz. 
"I have fre<Juently referred to the comic stnp as a sidewalk medium," says Schulz. "By this, I mean that the comic strip appeals to just plain people. However, if handled in the proper manner, the comic strip can burst these tradi­
.. . . .. . . 
. . . . . . . . . 


tiona! bounds and appeal also to people who are better educated and are fortunate enough to have a more cultured background. To do this, the cartoonist himself need not be this educated or cultured, but he must possess that rarest of all commodities, which is plain common sense.'' 
As the popularity of the ''Pea­nuts" strip ha;:; grown, so has its success in other media. The record now seems nothing short of re­markable. The 20th animated net­work TV special, ''Life is a Circus, Charlie Brown," will be aired in October. There have been four feature-length movies, a long-run­ing stage musical, '"you're a-Good Man Charlie Brown,'' and literally hundreds of books. Additionally, the "Peanuts" characters have appeared on merchandise ranging from greeting cards to sportswear to loaves of bread. Schulz person­ally approves every item before the licensee begins marketing the pro­duct. 
And, just like when he started out 30 years ago, Schulz writes and draws every strip himself. 
"My main obiective has always been to t~ to draw a good stnp every day, ' he says. "Every emo­tion that you have, plus every experience and bit of knowledge which you have acquired, go into the creation of a comic stri,P." 
Schulz, who is 57, lives 10 Santa Rosa California, with his wife, ] ean. His five children range in age from 19 to 27. He was born and raised in Minneapolis, and an early incarnation of "Peanuts," called "Li'l Folks," appeared weekly in the St. Paul Pioneer Press in 1947. ''I grew U,P with only one real career destre in life," he says, "and that was to some day draw my own comic strip.'' 
·Does he have any advice for the 
legion of youn~ cartoonists who 
would follow 10 his footsteps? 
"There-is no definite series ofsteps which you have to take," he believes. "You certainly do not have to have an 'in' someplace. All you have to do is be able to draw a comic strip which is better than any other now running. " 
'• • o o o • o o • • • a o • a" o • o • >.I • o I • ... •" •• to 6 o.•. o o • • .-I I .-I' I. I~ I • I •"' 


~,--~­
1 
I I I 
' 
' 
r 
' 
' 
I I I 
' 
I
' 
' 
,' 
' 
'
' 
' 
~ 
,_' 
' 
Features 

Friday, October 17, 1980 -page 14,
-
lETTERS TO A LONELY GOD 

The Shape of a Continent 

It would be difficult this week not to write about Bill Toohey's death. For over two weeks now, he has constantly been on my mind. Like everyone else, I have been praying for him, with the tears very close to the surface. 
He was a graceful and gifted priest; and if I say I loved him, I am not implying we were close friends, or even that I saw him often. At times, during the past ten years, I'm sure that I said things or did things that hurt him, but there were days also when I didn't think he was being kind to me. 
Colleagues, in trying to define them­selves, are capable of wounding each other with the minor cruelties; after bleeding a little, they forgive each other, and greet each other good­naturedly when the cup is passed. In recent years especially, Bill made me feel that we were foot soldiers in the same general skirmish. It would astonish me, once in a while, to learn how he had defended me when I had gotten myself caught in a situation where I couldn't easily defend myself. 
Life gets scary when you begin to lose the friends you've learned to depend on for survival. It's surprising for an older priest to realize how heavily he has been leaning on bor­rowed strength. 
The truth, for me, aboutBill was that ten years ago, he got the job I wanted at Notre Dame. I don't know if he ever knew I wanted the job, but I was desperate to have it. I hungered and thirsted to be the spiritual coach to the greatest student body on earth, in the same way, I suppose, that some towel­carrier in Hoboken dreams of being the head football coach under the Golden Dome. I knew, from being told, that my name was mentioned as a possible choice, so I waited from May until August, hoping against hope, like a child praying he might find a pony in his Christmas stocking. 
If I had been an administrator considering candidates, I certainly would have chosen Toohey over Griffin. ButI was notan administrator, and I was not Bill Toohey. I was merely Griffin: fat, clumsy, and a certified sentimentalist. What was hard to take at the time was that nobody Administrative, or nobody in the University, seemed aware of how much I coveted the job, as though I couldn't possibly be that foolishly ambitious. By not even suspecting, they made me feel embarrassed by my dream, like the goblin who falls in love with a princess. · 
I honestly understood their decision to put Bill Toohey in charge of Campus Ministry, but I felt sorry for myself anyway. I probably watched him more closely than anyone else on campus. Administrators didn't have time to watch him as closely as I watched him, and students simply lacked the credentials of experience for Toohey-watching. 
Critical, jealous of his style, easily hurt by his criticisms ofthose ofus who had been chaplains here before he arrived, I examined him with the hard­eyed kind of care you might give at a party, to the husband of the girl who has refused your offer of marriage, to find out how worthy he was ofthe prize he had been gifted with. 

I watched him; finally, I praised him; in the end, I loved him. Now, ten years later, when I consider the work he has done, I realize I would not have known how to even begin the job. I am humbled by my remembrance ofbeing grieved with the Lqrd for not letting me build him a house of faith, like a Rockne who recruits teams for religion. 
Late this summer, in New York, Bill attended a wedding Mass I was saying at St. Patrick's, and we sat next to each other at the reception. He was in New York, he said, to see his publisher. 
There are moments in my life when I feel closer to the members of my community than to anyone else on earth. I have a feeling about the community that w~ are, all of us, equally fragile and equally strong, equally threatened and equally safe; that there is a brotherhood among us in which we protect each other, and all who need us, from the lonely terror of feeling unloved; that there is a com­mon commitment of our lives that makes us the family ofChrist; and that no one of us is ever so good ·Or so beautiful as when we are together, being brothers to one another. 
On that bright August afternoon, while a groom danced with his bride on a floor close to the rooftop in a New York hotel, I was quietly happy being at home and being at peace with Bill Toohey. Being at home means the 
OCTOBER 12-19 
• 

AI· 'Prisoner ofConscience
' 

This week Amnesty International organized and focused all its efforts on behalf ofvictims of different methods of political repression -including abduction, house arrest, prosecution on false criminal charges and short­term arrest. 
The international human rights movement has organized its annual Prisoners of Conscience Week, run­ning from Octobt!r 12-19 this year, around the theme of 'The Different Faces of Imprisonment.' 
It aims to turn the spotlight on techniques which avoid or bypass the too-familar pattern ofpolitical trials, as well as on prisoners convicted on overly political charges. 
Amnesty International, a voluntary organization with more than a quarter ofa million members and supporters in 134 countries, is organizing publicity and public events to call attention to such abuses as· 
· --"Disappearances." Many thousands of real or suspected critics of their governments have been snatched from homes and streets. Many are later found murdered. In Argentina, where an estimated 15,000 people have "disappeared" since 1975, escapees have described a network of secret detention camps where torture and death are commonplace. Some 25,000 people are estimated to have 

"disappeared" in Guatemala since 
1966, and thousands in Chile. Other 
"disappearnces" are reported from 
widely separate parts of the world. 
"Banning," house arrest, internal 
exile. In Sou thAfrica, more than 1,400 people are believed to have been "banned" by simple ministerial order since 1950. · 
They may live year after year under strict limits as to the hours in which they can leave their houses, how many people and whom they can speak or write to, isolated and rigidly controlled. The Soviet Union and Chile are among countries where in­ternal exile to remote areas is used; South Korea and the Central African Republic are among many where forms ofhouse arrest are used to stifle dissent. 
-Short-term detention. In Colombia, activists for Indian and trade union rights are repeatedly ar­rested for short periods, and some­times tortured before being released. 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
company you keep; being at peace means the quiet time you share, pleased to accept the other, pleased that the other accepts you. 
It was nearly the last time we were together, two seasoned vets, gentle­men of differing centuries, represent­ing the old age and the youth of the Church: the Sacred Heart or social justice, Gothic or Godspell; Dan Berrigan, or the Nine Promises made to Sister Margaret Mary. All we had in common was an entire Catholic faith; it was not much, but it would do, if we differed enough in styles. I didn't need to be Toohey; he didn't want to be Griffin, but we were both affirmed bya feeling ofwarm cordiality out ofwhich we mutually ministered respect and caring. 
For over two weeks now, I have lived-like everyone else on cam­pus-with the thought ofBill's dying. On Monday, when the church bells signalled the sadness of his passing, I felt diminished by his death. Knowing for whom it was that the bell tolled, I felt diminished by his death beyond any mere truth that no man is an island, entire of itself. 
"Every man is a piece of the Continent, a part ofthe maine," wrote John Donne. "Ifa Clod be washed away by the Sea, Europe is the less, as well as if a Promontory were." Speaking for myself, I feel as though the Clod had lost the Continent. I never lost a Continent before. I'm surprised how long it took me to find out what a Continent is shaped like. 
' Week 
Among many other countries where repeated short-term imprisonment, often without trial, has been reported 
are Pakistan and Poland. 
-False criminal charges. A Romanian eco­nomist applied to emigrate to join his wife and child abroad. He was im­prisoned on charges of "homosexual acts." Prisoners of conscience in Romania and the Soviet Union are serving terms for convictions on charges of "hooliganism," "parasit­ism," and other offenses. 
In Mexico, 

people involved in land disputes, student and trade union activities have been arrested on criminal charges that appear to be false. There are signs that this kind of repression is increasing in several countries. 
Amnesty International has been organizing annual Prisoner of Conscience Weeks since 1968. For more information, call Larry Cox at 212-582-4440 orJim Gates at 272­7051. 


----------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer~~~~ 
Friday, October 17, 1980 -1page 15
Weekend .( 
*d vs. army, notre dame /stadium 
1
• • .Muskie 
(continued from page 6) 
about to re-enter dialogue with the community of nations. 
Secretary of State Edmund Muskie sticks a Carter-Mondale button in his lapel and goes offto address the National Woman's Democratic Club in Washing­ton. 
From the floor comes a ques­tion about the rumor heard all over Washington on this warm Thursday afternoon -that the United States was about to trade arms and ammunition to Iran in exchange for 52 Americans. 
"I've heard the rumors," says Muskie enigmatically. Then he steps back and says no more, for the moment. 
At a crowded Pentagon brief­ing, spokesman Thomas Ross issues a categorical denial of everything: "the facts of the matter are that we have not loaded planes, we have not issued orders for planes to be loaded, we have not alerted people to that possibility. There is nothing going on in that area whatso­ever." 
At the State Department, spokesman John Trattner is un­communicative. He pleads with reporters not to jump to con­clusions. 
"Your role could be important and even crucial," he says. 
What was going on here? 
There are no facts. No one in a 
position to know will say if there is a deal, or if there are ne­gotiations, or if there has been a signal, or if the hostages have been moved or if the president is planning some dramatic move. There are no facts. 
:······'Introducing·······:
. . 
Victory Pizza 
(formerly Rizzo's) . 

.: ...............................:.
.................................
. 
Delivery to 
ND-SMC Campus 
277-4926 
. 

(Just 500ft.south of~ 
. 

. . . Kroger on SR 23)....; 

Michael Molinelli 
\: 
~..,.,... 
Peanuts® 

Charles M. Schulz · 
~OW DO ~OU KNOW I WAS TALKING ABOUT L{OU? 

M'l AUNT MARION SAliS, 11M NOT A '' Nl::VER FALL IN LOVE TRUMPET PLAL{ERWITI1 ATRUMPET PLAI{ER" 
, 
n 

let's jam I the notre dame student union presents 
~!!!!!!!!!!!!country rockjam!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
featuring the vassar clements band john hall heartsfield 
· radioflyer rich Prezioso & kevin quigley 
tickets: $5.00 general admission $4.00 w. n.d./smc i.d. 

available at: ndsu ticket office m-f (12-4) all river city record stores 
chicken barbecue 5-8 p.m. tickets $3.50 
sat. nov. 1st. stepan center· 

Pinocchio's Pizza Parlor 
Luncheon Specials Weekdays 
BeerSpecials Every Nite­B:OOto 9:00$.25Mug $1.25 Pitcher 
HtJur.o; 
r;~~:-~;~:;;~;~........., 

11 :00-12:00Mon-Thur.~ ~Good for One ~ 
11:00-1 :.'JO Fri-.~tlPizza l 
1:00-11 :008u11
l $2.00offany l i Large Pizza i i$1.00offany l
I
Small Pizza \ 
...............................................· 
We Deliver 



. ·' 
The Notre Dame baseball team closes out its fall season at home thiJ weekend against St. Francis. (photo by Rachel Blount). 


don't forget a form of identification 

I I 
I f 
~ ~ 
I I I I I 
1-' 
I I I I 
I I I I I I 
by Dave Irwin Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's baseball team 
concludes its fall season with a 
pair of single games against St. 
Francis beginning at 3 p.m. today 
and 9 a.m. Saturday. Both games 
are scheduled to be played on 
Jake Kline Field. 
The Irish's record improved to 
8-4-1 last weekend as Notre 
Dame slippedpastValparaiso 2-1 
while the second game, called 
because ofdarkness, tied 3-3. St. 
Francis will be looking to tarnish 
that record. 

"It's a big game for St. 
Francis," Irish head coach Larry 
Gallo said. "They've been want­
ing to play Notre Dame for 1awhile." Gordy Gillespie is head coach 
for St. Francis. While at Lewis , University, Gillespie won three . consecutive NAIA champion­1 ships. Besides being head base­ball coach, Gillespie is also St. Francis' athletic director and 
director for Joliet Catholic foot­
ball. 

"St. F rands plays good ball and 
they're a tough club," Gallo said. 
"In the spring, they schedule 106 
contestsd and usually finish the ->t!ason with 95 plus games under their belt. Their Southern trip consists of 30 games with the best competition-in the South and Southwest." Notre Dame had just nine hits in the doubleheader against Valparaiso 
"It's a big game 

for St. Francis ' ' 
"We didn't play well at all against Valparaiso," Gallo said. "We didn't do well at all in hitting with men on base and in scoring postion. We _didn't negotiate a sacrifice bunt and missed some signs that cost us. We simply prolonged the second game," he commented. 
The Irish did not throw their top two pitchers -senior Mike Deasey and Bob Bartlett­against Valparaiso, but Gallo was impressed with those that did pitch. 
"We didn't throw our so-called top pitchers, but the pitchers that did throw did as gooda job as anyone this fall," Gallo said. Steve Whitmyer pitched the fist 

-----.......-------four innings, surrendering just 
with sophomore Rick Chryst getting two hits. Chryst was pafing the Irish regulars with a .400 batting average before the doubleheader. Senior captain MikeJamieson also had two hits while Geore lams stole two bases ~ringing his total to seven. 
(continued from page 20) 
double Wedn;sday night. "The confidence contc::. frum the fact mat we are doing it, have done it and now expect to do it. The importantthing is that now we all expect us to c ·me through when we have to." 
And the Phillies keep doing exactly that. The team has won five postseason games now and come from behind to take every 
• 
Guest rooms surrounding a spectacular glass domed Indoor pool and recreation area. 

• 
Fine dining, entertainment and dancing in Arthur's Restaurant, Aldie's Show lounge and the Irish Pub. 

• 
Special "Symposium"_ room with banked seating 

· for audio-visual presentations. Conference suites and other facilities to 400. 

• 
2 night weekend package available by advance reservation. 

• 
lavish executive and bridal suites. 


Midwa~ Motor Lodge 
Elkhart City Centre 300 S. Moln St. . Elkhort-lndlono46514 · 
(219) 295-0280 
. 
one run (the first he has given up this fall in 10 innings), while GregJaun pitched three innings of shutout relief. 
In the secondgame, Bill Ma tre, freshman Bob Hickey and Steve Gallinaro combined to limit the Crusaders to three tuns. 
• • . Series 
one of them. Sometimes it's early, the way they strafed Leonard in Gat~Sometimes it's late, the way they took Quisenberry in Game 2. But eventually, they seem to come back one way or another. 
Bowa, observing the situation from the Phillies' side of the field, had some advice for the Royals. 
"They're down two to noth­ing," he said. "They'd better get on the stick." 
And if they don't? . 
"We have the best road record in the National League," Bowa concluded. 
Life 
•
Insurance. 
Its part of 
making it 
on your 
own. 
There's a lot of freedom 
in living your own life, in 
making it on your own. 
But it takes effort and 
planning on your part. And 
life insurance is an impor­
tant element in the plan­
ning. 
You've JOt freedom 
now. Life insurance will 
help make sure you have It 
later. 
Call me for full informa­
tion. 
MIKEBLAIR 
New York Life Insurance Company 
108N. Main· Suite &1·~ 400 
Ill 
234-5600. 


The Observer Friday, October 17, 19~0-page 17 
~-------~--------­
----. ----------------------------------------------------­
.... 

Water polo drops four m• tourney 
.Haines 

(continued from page 20) 
Still, there has been a great 

deal of transition for the Akron, OH, native. "They're basically the same pass routes," he said, "But I've had to learn different techniques. and philosophies. ·Reading defenses is much more complicated. Where you might have five in college, you can have up to 20 different variations to read in the pros." Haines also mentioned that a lot more film is studied to determine the strengths and weaknesses of the 
opposing defensive backs. 
In fulfilling his primary role as 

a member of the "suicide squad," 
Haines usually looks like an 
orange and blue streak heading 
toward the opposing kick 
returner. In recent Monday night 
action against Tampa Bay, Kris 
downed a third quarter punt on 
the Rues' two-yard line. The Bucs 
were eventually forced to punt 
from their own end zone and the 
Bears used that field position to 
advantage as they scored the 
game's first touchdown. 
Kris Haines is quite realistic in 

discussing his future plans. "Su(e 
I'd like to play football as long as 
I can. But in the off-season, I'm 
going to pursue my MBA and/or 
continLie my job in sales at Bell 
Products." 
Kris, who lives in a lakefront 

Chicago apartment, cautions 
Bear fans against letdowns over 
the team's early season misfor­
tunes. "The Bears have a history 
of slow starts," he stated. "Hey. 
we've got a good team. We just 
net~d to beat a quality team to 
gain some momentum." 
The fleet-footed receiver also 

spoke fondly of his football days 
at Notre Dame. 
"Notre Dame is the most 
prestigious place in the world for 
a college player to play. Nothing 
will ever match the feeling of 
being on the 1977 team when we 
wore those green jerseys and 
came running out of the tunnel 
for the USC game!" he said. "I 
miss the college spirit, the excite­
ment of the whole student body 
pulling for you on every play." 
Notre Dame misses Kris 

Haines, too. 
No rally 

Jim Magers, chairman of the pep rally committee, has an­nounced that there will be no pep rally for the Notre Dame­Army football game due to break. 
The Notre Dame water polo club recently returned from a tournament held at Loyola of Chicago. Although the team lost all four games, it played well against the other established varsity squads. 
In the opening match-up, Iowa State edged past the Irish 19-17. Three other near victories eluded them as they fell to Southern Illinois, Kentucky, and national powerhouse Brown. 
The Irish team's efforts did not go unnoticed by the opposing coaches and players. "After the Brown game, their coach told us how really impress~d he was with our program," relates club president Mike Corbisiero. "The coach of Loyola and all the Kentucky players were also very impressed." 
Wh was ever bodv so im­pressed with the Irish perfor­mance? First of all, this is a first­year team. Water polo at Notre Dame was just an idea in the heads of Corbisiero and a few others, until last spring. Second­ly, it is a club sport competing on an even level with varsity pro­grams. And lastly, the team has no coach. 

"We had one lined up last year, but he moved," Corbisiero says. 
So these responsibilities were taken over by Corbisiero, and so far he has f'lUt in a good per­formance as player-coach. The team's record stands at 3-7, more than respectable for a first year club venture. 
ButCorbisiero does not accept full credit for the way the team has played this year. 
"There is a tremendous a­mount of dedication on this team," boasts Corbisiero, "from the seniors on down. They have all worked very hard." 
This dedication can be seen just about every day in the Rockne Memorial pool, where the club members undergo a rigorous practice of drills, scrimmages and intense sprints at the end. This dedication also continues out of the pool, where the team has to scrape to meet travel expenses. 
"Being a club sport, we receive some money from the Office of Non-Varsity Sports. We also have $10 membership dues and have raised money through movies, concession stands, and selling programs before the home football games," says Corbisiero. 
Even with these efforts, only fifteen of the twen -five mem­
ber team can travel to away 
games. But the team has suc­
ceeded in laying a solid found­
ation for the future, and an 
auspicious one at that, according 
to the club president. 
"There is a very good future for water polo at Notre Dame. Of the seven starters, four are underclassmen. The only thing this team needs to make it truly successful is a coach. After that, the possibilities are endless." 
So it appears that water polo is here to stay, thanks to the pioneering efforts of Corbisiero. His team has epitomized the idea behind club sports. There is no glory, no cheering fans, no athletic scholarships. Just a sense of individual competition and the desire to excel under a team conce t. 
Friends wish you luck on a bigexam.Gooil friends stick around to see howyou did. 
'll1ey say they were just hanging aroW1d killing time and by the way, "How did you do?" You tell them a celebration is in order and that you're buying the beer. "Look," one of them says, "If you did that well, buy us something special." Tonight, let it be Lbwenbriiu. 
.................................--... ­


. ---~------~~-------·~~ 
I -~ 
The Observer Friday, October 17, 1980-page 18 
I I I I I I 
r 
I I 
,r 
,
,
, 
,I 
,
' 
! ~ 
I 
~--­
~ 
f I 
I ~ 
' 
' 
' 
Pistol Pete ~s it a day _byTifiPrister 
He was certainly not an imposing figure on the I basketball court. All his life he was extremely frail I looking compared to the otherballplayers. Adding to his slender physique, his hair was long and shaggy and he insisted on wearing a pair of decrepit, floppy woolen socks for every game. In fact he wore the same pair all through college. 
Early in his career, he even had to begin his jump shot from his right hip because the ball was simply too heavy. 
"Someone said it looked like I was handling a pistol, shooting from the hip," he said, thus "prompting the nickname, "Pistol." 
Pete Maravich stood out from all the rest, yet it was not his appearance that separated him from the other ballplayers on the court. Ratheritwas his magical ability to place an inflated spherical object into a metal ring 18 inches in diameter, virtually any time he felt like it. 
Of course, Maravich's ball handling ability was not inborn or learned overnight. Countless hours were spent perfecting his technique always under the watchful eye ofhis eventual colleg~ coach who was none other than his own father. "Nobody in the game ever had so stunning a training program," said Bill Gutman biographer of Maravich's life. 
The Pistol's rare ability was evidenced by his shattering of nearly every college scoring record. Maravich averaged an incredible 44.2 points per varsity game at Louisiana State University, a record that has remained unscathed for over a decade. 
Even more remarkably, Maravich managed to average over five assists a game while still continuing to score in droves. Meanwhile, Pete displayed his bag of tricks for an LSU team that consistently finished near the .500 mark in won-lost percentage. 
Thus critics ofMaravich's razzle dazzle, behind­the-back pass, now you see it, now you don't style of play, labeled him a loser, certainly unable to help lead an NBA team to a title. 
As it turned out, the critics were absolutely correct. Pete Maravich never played on a World Championship team. Of course, what they always failed to mention was the Maravich never played on a team of World Championship caliber. 

Books Are A Great Gift Idea Explore the SECOND FLOOR of the 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Subjects Include: vS 13001-' 
coolZ rr
t\R; 

THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE  
DAME, A PORTRAIT OF ITS  
WAKE UP THE ECHOES Ken Rappoport. The story Notre Dame football. $8.95  By of  THE DAME 1981 CALENDAR By Philip C. Thompson $5.95. A lasting gift (the 12 prints can be framed). ·  HISTORY & CAMPUS By Professor Thomas Schlereth (A Beautifully Illustratt:d History of Notre Dame(, Hardbound $25.00, Paperback $7.95.  

Football Saturday Hours 9am-1:30pm 3pm-5:30pm 
''We aren 't .TUST textbooks _you !mowI' ' 
Second Floor 


_-arnrnes~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Sure, dte Atlanta Hawks were playoff con­
tenders for a few years but Maravich's flashy style 
of play disturbed angered and offended many of 
his teammates which prompted a group ofgrown 
men to behave like infants because their names 
weren't appearing in thet headlines as often as the 
Pistol's. 

Then there was the trade to the New Orleans 
Jazz in 1974. Maravich was surrounded by a crew 
who many pro scouts said could play defense only 
ifassigned to guard a statue. Maravich managed to ' 
lead the league in scoring in the 1976-77 season 
with 31.1 p.p.g. 

But probably Maravich's best season was the 
followingyearwhenhealmostsingle-handedlyled 
the Jazz into the playoffs. 

Amidst a heated dispute with general manager 
Lewis Schaffel, the Pistol sparked a 10-game 
winning streak-shortly before suffering a knee 
injury that. later required surgery and forced him to 
miss 32 of the last 35 games. At the time of his 
injury, Maravich was leading the league in scoring. 
In 1979, theJazz replanted its roots in Salt Lake City, Utah. By this time, Maravich's struggle with his arthritic knees two months. 
OnJanuary 22, 1980, Maravich signed with the Boston Celtics as a free agent. Finally, after waiting 10 years to get into a meaningful playoff, "the 01' Pistol," as one writer quipped, "had nothing left but blanks." 
Pete Ma.ravich decided to call it quits this year after averaging nearly 25 points a gam over a 10 year span. Pete Maravich was nota loser in fact, the ~istol was a breath of fresh air into a generally lifeless game-pro basketball 
Faced with constant adversity, including a bout with mononucleosis at training camp before his second sealson in the NBA, Maravich continued to plar his game. He had the uncanny ability to 
dehght the throngs of people who oftentimes atten~ed NBAgames for only one reason -tosee the Ptstol. 
Fortunately for the pro basketball diehards, stan?outs like "Magi<' Johnson and Larry Bird are playmg pro basketball, but there will never be another Pete Maravich. 
Thanks for the memories Pistol, and on behalf of the NBA, much obliged. 

Krimm sparles defense 
john Krimm (19) and the Irish secondary square off against a relative young Army offense. (photo by PhilltP Johnson) 
NOTRE DAME All-Americans. Photos and descriptions of Notre Dame All-Americans from 1903-1978. $6.95 


-~ 

---------~---­
The Observer 
Baseball 
Best of Seven Game One 
Philadelphia 7, Kansas City 6 Game 
Two 
Philadelphia 6, Kansas City 4 Philadelphia leads series 2-0 Today's Game Game Three 
Philadelphia (Ruthven 17-10) at 

Kansas City (Gale 13-9), (n) Tomorrow's Game Game Four 
Philadelphia at Kansas City Sunday's Game Game Five 
Philadelphia at Kansas City, If neces­

sary Tuesday, Oct. 21 Game Six  
Kansas City at Philadelphia, (n), necessary Wednesday, Oct. 22 Game Seven  If  
Kansas City necessary  at  Philadelphia, (n),  If  
Hockey tix  
pick-up  
today  

Season hockey tickets may be picked up at the second floor ticket window in the ACC be­tween 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. today. Students who have not yet purchased season tickets may wish to do so at these times. 
Band salutes classical music 
This week, the Notre Dame Band's halftime show will salute the field of classical music. 
The_ band o~ens its halftime presentation with the march from Peter Ilyitch Tschatkowsky s 6TH SYMPHONY, followed by the music of Franz Liszt. The band plays his poignant and impressive composition_ 
HUNGARIAN RHAPSODY NO. 2. Much of the great treasury of classical music comes from the world of opera. The band plays a few ofthe great arias such as: HOWSO FAIR, HABANERA, TOREADOR (continued from page 20) 

Fahnestock, a three-year let­
terman, stands 6-1 and weighs in 
at 175 pounds. A senior from 
Selinsgrove, Penn. and the West 
Point team's top recetvmg 
threat, he paced the team in 
catches last weason with 19. 

Defensively Army is lead by Stan March, a senior from Houston, Tex. March, a6-2, 245­pound defensive tackle heads a list of six returning defense squad starters returning for the Cadets, including Jeff Cook (defensive back), Kevin Dodson (tackle), John Garrison (inside linebacker), Bob Wood (outside linebacker) and Chris Zawie (defensive back). 
The West Point denial squad will face a Notre Dame offense sparked by freshman Blair Kiel, who will start his second game in the quarterback position. Kiel, who is averaging 39.5 yards-per­punt, experienced something other than a brilliant day in his first start against Miami. Versus 
the Hurricanes the Columbus, Ind. native went 4-17 in the aerial attack for just 35 yards. 
"You can't measure Kiel's contribution by statistics," says Devine, "statistics don't mean a thing." 
The Irish, who are averaging 
SONG, MARCH FROM FAUST, TRIUMPHAL MARCH, and the I 373.2 total offensive ya~ds per THEME FROM CARMEN. The band's final presentation is the gam_e, will again be without the inspiring GREAT GATE OF KIEV from "pictures at an Exhibition" ser~tces of sophomore tailback by Moussorgsky. The band concludes its performance with NOTRE Phd Carter (bruised thigh) and DAME, OUR MOTHER and theNOTREDAME VICTORYMARCH. junior tight end Dean Mazstak 
(sprained ankle). Carter will be 
Friday, October 17, 1980-page 19 
I

• • • Irish r\ 
I I 

replaced by senior Jim Stone, ~ who rushed for a career high of ,I 224 yards on 38 carries against a 
1

strong Miami defense. Nick Vehr, a 6-4, 236-pound senior 1 will replace Mazstak at end. ~
,
"Even though Phil Carter won 

the halfback job last spring, we 
knewJim Stone could and would 
help a great deal this year," says 
Devine. "He and Phil are room­
mates and best friends and they 
help and support each other all 
the time. Even if Phil can't play 
this week against Army, which is 
very possible, we certainly won't 
have to many problems with a 
guy like Jim Stone around." 
The Cadets, who have had just 
three seasons over the .500 mark 
in ten years, will face a stubborn 
Irish defense. Lead by tri-cap­
tains Bob Crable (linebacker) 
and Tom Gibbons (free safety) 
Notre Dame has held its op­
ponents to 72 points in four 
games. 
Gibbons and junior corner­
back John Krimm, who have 
each returned interceptions for 
touchdowns this season, pose as 
a major threat to junior quarter­
back Jerry! Bennett. Bennett's 
only fears will not be in the Irish 
secondary as the Notre Dame 
front men have sacked oppon­
ents 27 times for a loss of 1 10 
yards. 
Notre Dame, who leads the 
Army series 31-8-4, will travel to 
Arizona next weekend to face 
the Wildcats in Tuscon. While 
the Cadets contest Boston . College at Chestnut Hill. 
Classifieds  
Need 1 Lousy Army GA · Call Glenn APT. FOR RENT • BEDIIOOM-LIVING WILL PAY PRACTICALLY ANYTHING 4549NOTICES IIOOM, KITCHEN, BATHIIOOM a FOR 2·4 GA'S FOil ARMY GAME · UTILITIES.Call Kevin 1139 or Mr. Joers NEED. SEVERAL GA ARMY TICKETS.CALL GREG 8433 234-3387 CALL MIKE 2984. Helpl I need 1 or 2 GA or student need two tickets to army call martyOVERSEAS JOBS: Summer/year tickets lor Army. Call 8914. at 277-5049 offer eightround Europe, S. Amer., Australia. I need a pair ol GA"s lor Army. Call Alia. All fields $500-$1200 monthly. 3245.Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free PERSONALSInfo. Write: UC. Box 52-IN 4. Corona WANTED ARE YOU SICK OF THE CAFETERIA Del Mar, CA. 92625. FOOD? I will cook you a hom&­cooked ITALIAN DINNER II you con BEABELIEVERINMIOWESTROCK'N' I AM IN DIRE NEED OF A RIDE TO provide me with two GA's lor the ROLL...LISTEN TO THE MICHAEL ARIZONA FOR THE SEMESTER BREAK I will trade all THREE ol my sisters AIIMY game. Coll4581 and ask lor STANLEY BAND In concert Thurs Oct PlEASE HELP JOHN 277-5042 lor a ride back from Pittsburgh alter Teresa S. 30 ot8 pm In SMC O'Loughlln Aud. Used and Out-of-Print books loll break. I'll also shore expenses. Reserved seating ticket sales at bought. sold, searched. ERASMUS etc. II you con help, call Tim ol8706. SMC Ticket Ottlce a ND/SMC Dining Need 1 llckeJ to Army game. CallBOOKS, 1027 E. Wayne. 232-8444. Halls. Price: $6 NOW, Increased to NEED IllDE bock to NO alter break lor 12-6 p.m., closed Mondays. Jenny • 7193. $7 AFTER BREAK. two from ST. LOUIS area. Will drive, PLEASE: Need 12 ARMY TICKETS lorBASEBALL CAIID SHOW. NOV. 1. pay lor gas. etc. Call Mike ol6765. #1 We're lust about on our way... Lutheran Boy's Group. Will payQUALITY INN, DOWNTOWN SO. BEND. only a happy hour and a football Needed: Plane riders to Denver reasonable requests. ph. 74439 A.M. TO 4 P.M. FOOTBALL. BSKBALL game away.leaving on Thursday. Call Julie at CAllOS. N.D. PIIOGIIAMS. SPOilT #2 Sterls. Brown and Relchert...ore 4947. NEED 2 ARMY GA'SI JOHN 1850 MAGAZINES,ETC. BUY. SELL. TIIAOE. you psyched?$$$$$ INFO. 255-1738. I need a ride to the NO-Navy game Need ride to Buttolo.N.Y.Ior break. at Giant's stadium on 1 Nov. Call Need 5 GA Army lor olumnllrlendl. TICKETS! TICKETS! TICKETS! Please call 277-3575 and ask lor Tim P. ol4511. Good$. (3479) 1need many tickets! Students and Drew. Con leave Thursday otter 5 GA's lor Army. Call John at 8553. Need ride from NYC or North NJ NEED TWO ARMY GA' S FOR MAD CITY p.m. (1-80) alter break. Shore etc. Call FRIENDS. CALL JEFF 232-0982. Desperately need a ride to Fronk: 4553, (212) 243-6209, (201) In desperate need ol two GA or Philadelphia. Con leave anytime 361-7139. Student tickets to ARMY GAMEl Call before Friday night. Please call Mary Anne (SMC) 4027. Mike Immediately at 1601. I'll do LOST/FOUND anything.Helpless female will give almost ANYTHING lor a student lie to Army One lost Nozzy night before break... gamell Call Dione at 78951 Molly DeSchruyer at 9:00.FOR SALE LOST: A blue sweallackelln Room MY IIOOMMATE NEEDS 2 TICKETS Need ride · to Boston! Will share 201 In Business Building on Oct. 6. II TO Alii FOIICE AND MADE ME COME expenses. Leave any lime alter tound. please call Mike • 1615. UP HERE AND TYPE THIS IN. EITHER GA Thursday. Call Mike at 3488. Tllonk you. FOil SALE. COLOR PICTURES OF THE OR STUDENT WILL DO. To a "Wizard" ol Orion. (rather one SAINT EDWARD'S FIIIE. TO MAKELosl: Blue windbreaker In EE lob BUCKS FOil TWO ARMY GAs. call who knows) Happy Birthday Chris ARRANGEMENTS TO SEE THESE on Monday. II found. please call IIICK Friedman Sodyre. HISTORICAL PICTURES CALL MARK6840. THESING. PHONE • 7735. TICKETS! TICKETS! TICKETS! 12 wild 'n crazy women stranded at LOST: Melear calculator In front ol 1need sludenlllckels lor ARMY. Call NO lor X-lro nile at break · need FOil SALE: FTC4-SANYO AM-FMLafortune Tuesday night. II found. Poulol6111. heavy porly action Sal. nile alter CASSffiE CAR STEIIE0,$90 .or bestplease call Kevin 3578. Army game. Know where the action otter. NEW·NEVEII USED.Coll MY IIOOMMATE'S NUMBER. BY THE Will be on Oct. 18? Call Dione at 283-7877 anytime. WAY, IS 4449. ASK FOR PAM. 78951-----­Need 2 GA Army tickets· Call Dove It's Bernie the Bold's 21stl BirthdayFOR RENT 3414 kisses and shots ol Tullomore Dew may be bestowed now or alterUrgenHy need 1 or 2 GEORGIA TECH tickets. You nome price. JOE 1782 break.TICKETS 2 room opt. $50 mo. Near. ~33­Helpll need 2 Army Tickets. Call Phil Reno-hove a happy 20th. 'liz'1329. at 1573. FOil liENT: Ugly Duckling lleni-A-Car. Family To See Army Muled. Still Tllonkl to everyone who helped aHELPPriced hom $7.95 a day and seven Need 2 GAs or Student. Call Bob Ineurotic Features Editor with lheDESPERATELY IN NEED OF AIIMY TIXcents a mile. Phone 255-2323 lor 3244 restaurant supplement. reservollonl. TOM -1631  You ore rllore than welcome, poor lillie Molly. Learn something about machines over break. We love you anyway. Pol Worklond ­thanks lor the T­shlrl, you loxl BEST OF MOLARITY. Don't miss Ill STEVE SCHMITZ! STEVE SCHMITZ! STEVE SCHMITZ! Schmltzle, See you In Brew Town. Tax Beglone Thanks to all who helped out when I was sick. Beth Mlsserlc -no. Mezawek • uh uh, Mazurek ­thai's 11. Anyway, Dione. anytime you wont to call leal lree to, my floors always need dusting. Ryan "duslmop" Ver Berkmoes Deldre: Enjoy your trip home to that eastern culture hotspot; Connecticut. Avoid all forms of labor, mental and manual. Don'llorgello bring me a souvenir. llyan P.S. Never volunteer to helpColleen With her homework. .. SMC SENIORS; mall your PROOFS to Delma Studios BEFORE October break. Please don't delay the year­book. John M. ­hove o happy birthday over breakl Your co-reviewer. C"Mon. llrucelhls Is really getting to be too muchl 80, HAVE A HOTTIME IN THE BAHAMAS. STAY AWAY FIIOM THOSE PYRAMID GAMBLING HOUSESII BE GOOD, G.W. COLLEGE GIRLS FROM C.V.. THANKS SO MUCH FOR THE CANADIAN GOODIES. I DON'T KNOW IF WE'LL EAT ANY OF IT BECAUSE WE'LL BE CATCHING AND TRAPPING All OUII FOOOIIII LOOK OUT CANADA, HERE WE COMEIII SEE VA IN IIHINE· IANDEIIIII FROM ALL THE FIIONTIERS· MEN OF THE NOIITHII ONWARD WE GOillll AS YOU'RE READING THIS, WE'IIE PIIOBABLY TOURING THE MOLSON$  BREWEIIYIII WE'Ll HAVE A FEW FOR All OF YOUII OH CANADAIIII To all my assorted friends. pals, chums. and dim aquonlences. II you do nothing else. make your break a happy one. How you make n happy Is your business. bul II you need boll money. call me day or night. See you later. llyan "no doz" Ver Berkmoes p.s. Walch out lor Mooses... Oh,llyonl You can't call your t1rq'"''''""'cr1 dim when you can't even spell the word that names lheml And you should know that II you wont your personal to look like a letter when II Is actually printed. you must talk to the Quodrltek first ­and talk nicely at that. There's nolhlng.worselhon on ornery Quodmek. They hole mooses to plecesl Yuk. yuk. yuk. CAVANAUGH-THE PROGRAM AND pep RALLY WERE CUTE, BUT YOU WILL NEVER TOP THE STUDSIII (HEliE COME THE STUDSIIIIIIIII) STEVE CATCH SOME RAYS IN CALIFORNIA AND GOOD LUCK AT THE TABLES IN VEGAS. SANDRA H. Cokes: l"mnol6' 1", blonde hair. blue eyes. And that's the spice or It all. Nick. Jock. Kevin. Rover. Joe. Bob. and Terry, Canoe canoe? I hope the weather's great while you're Klckapaolng. Have lunlll Staph P.S. Nick. good luck on the little lest on Saturday. Happy Birthday Jim Russell From all your crazy girlfriends Deb. I hope you hove a good break even though you ore spending II In beautiful South Bend. We'll be thinking of you. Ranes Hello, everyone. I lust want to wish y'oll on enjoyable trip home and a greol lime while you're there. Tills means you Ryan, Shone. Country, Boydle. Nlggly, ' steve, Ranes (Bahamas). Omor. Crystal (IIOCKSIII) and anyone else who believes In Jack Daniels and !Ieedom. Don't go to lost. you crazy portlers. Hove a drink on me. STEVE  


!-.. 
Friday, October 17, 1980 --page 20
SI>orts 

Irish to clash with Cadets 
by Beth Huffman much improved the caliber of Walker, a 5-11, 180-pounder their skilled people and the from Greenville, S.C., was the 
Sports Editor 

whole team is." Cadet's second leading rusher 
Army, who last met Irish in last year and has already amassed Army, the first of the three 1977 and fell 24-0 in Giants 
500~plus yards in his team's first military service academies on the Stadium, is lead offensively by 
five contests. 

1980 Irish schedule rolls into split end Mike Fahnestock and Notre Dame for a 1:30 grid half back Gerald Walker. 
19) match-up tomorrow. The Cadets, who have compiled a 2-2­1 slate thus far in 1980, will be followed by the remammg Commander-in-Chiefs Trophy candidates, Navy and Air Force, 
Back to K. C. 
later in the season. 

The West Point men, who began the season relatively well by defeating Holy Cross and KANSAS CITY (AP)-Now it The bounces have been going California, finished deadlocked is Rich Gale's turn to try and halt Philadelphia's way. There's no at 24 points against Lehigh last what is beginning to look like a question about that. But this Saturday under the direction of Philadelphia juggernaut. team, appearing in its first World head coach Ed Cavanaugh. Gale gets the assignment of Series in 30 years, is starting to Cavanaugh, the third Army starting the third gfl.!Ile of the feel like it's been tapped on the mentorinasmanyyears,directsa 1980 World Series Friday night shoulder by destiny. squad with 32 lettermen return-against Philadelphia's Dick "I haven't seen this type of ing from last year's 2-8-1 team. Ruthven as the Kansas City confidence before in my major 
"This Army team is a far cry, Royals desperately seek a way to league career," said Del Unser, for instance, from the 1970 team solve the late-inning lightning of who contributed a vital pinch Jim Stone, who rushed for a career high 224 yards on 38 carries against that was 1-9 or the 1973 team the Phillies. Miami wtl! fill-in again this week for an injured Phil Carter. (photo by
{continued on page 16)
that was 0-10," says Dan Devine, And the Royals may have to do fame Ahern) who boasts a 48-14-0 record as it without superstar George the Irish head coach. "Notre Brett. Dame fans are going to be in for a Brett, suffering from hemor­
With Chicago Bears
real suprise when they see how rhoids which forced him out of Thursday night's game after five innings, went directly to St. Luke's Hospital to see a procto-

Kris Haines finds new home 
gist when the team returned home.
Restic 

The Royals have been swamp­Two seconds left ... Montana rolls to his right, fires into ed wi.th homemade recipes for the end zone ... TOUCHDOWN!. .. Kris Haines with a 
Mike
remedies to Brett's problem. diving catch and Notre Dame has tied it. .. WHAT Arumors They might be better off, FINISH! though, with a remedy for the 
Previte
Phillies. 

1979 Cotton Bowl
continue 

"When you're two down, it's Irish 35, Houston 34 not very good," said Kansas City waived two days prior-to the season opener. He Manager Jim Frey. "We plan to Almost two football seasons have passed since caught on with the Bears in December for the finalAn article published in the do better at home." Notre Dame's great triumph at the Cotton two regular season contests and helped the


Quincy, Mass. Patriot Ledger by 

They had better ifthey hope to (Freeze) Bowl of '79. Some of its principal Monsters of the Midway achieve an NFC wild card ,.,..ony Ferullo announced yester­
keep this best-of-seven Series participants have since graduated and moved on to playoff spot. 
dav that Harvard's head football going. They've been burned bigger and better things.Joe Montana is now a Q B During the 1980 exhibition season, Hainescoach, Joe Res tic, had been twice by Philadelphia thunder, for the 49'ers. Vagas Ferguson is a star rookie for received his greatest thrill to date as a pro againstselected to replace the retiring 

surrendering an early 4-0 lead to the Patriots. the Cleveland Browns. QB Mike Phipps let go aDan Devine at Notre Dame. 
lose the opener 7-6, watching the But what of the man who made the catch to "Hail Mary" pass toward the Chicago end zone as"My two sources, the main 
Phillies soar from behind again preserve the miracle? the halfended. Kris snared the ball in mid-air afterone, more Notre Dame-related with a four-run eighth inning to Kris Haines has found a home in Chicago. it was tipped by another player. "I was surprised tothan Harvard's said that Restic 
take Game 2 6-4. ·As a backup split end and special teams player see the ball floating toward me, but was so elatedcame to terms two weeks ago," 
The Phillies beat Dennis extraordinaire, he has adapted to a role he is when I knew it was a touchdown."
said Ferullo. 

Leonard, Kansas City's 20-game expected to play among the 45 cogs that make up Haines relates the fact that his coach, NeillHowever, both Restic and winner, in the opener, and the Chicago Bears. An after-practice chat with the Armstrong, has been instrumental in helping Kris:\iotre Dame officials refuse to exploded against bullpen ace affable '79 alumnus revealed much of the establish himself as an NFL player. "Neill is firm,
comment on the the appoint­

Dan Quisenberry to take the enthusiasm that Haines has carried with him into but extremely well-liked by his players," saidment. 
second game. the pros. Haines. "He's a player's coach." Kris also men­
.;1 have no comment on 

It is not an encouraging pros­"I've really enjoyed being wih the Bears," tioned that Armstrong's offensive system is not asr.ything about Notre Dame," pect for Gale, 1 3-9 during the Haines noted. "This is justlike a rookie year for me difficult to grasp as Washington coach Jack:1id Restic, who futher stated the 
regular season. The Phillies are and I realize its going to take awhile so I try to be Pardee's playbook.
',nly thing on his mind was this looking forward to the confron-valuable to th~ team wherever I can." 

week's game. 
(continued on page 17)A9th round Redskin draft pick in 1979, Kriswas 



1980 Grid Picks 

Paul Mullan~y  Beth Huffman  Michael Ortman  Kelly Sullivan  Frank LaGrotta  Craig Chval  Brian Beglane  
Editor-in-Chief 41-19, .684 .  Sports Editor 44-!6, .734  Assoc. Sp. Edtlor 42-18, .700  Women's Sp. Editor 45-15, .750  Sports Writer 41-19, .684  Sports Writer 40-20, .667  Sports Writer 45-15, .750  

NC State at North Carolina  Heels by 17  
Wake Forest at Maryland  Terps by 3  
Indiana at Ohio State  Bucks by 14  
Alabama at Tennessee  Tide by 7  
Syracuse at Penn State  Lions by 10  
Baylor at Texas A &  M  Bears bv 7  
Southern Cal at Oregon  Trojans. by 14  
Washington at Stanford  Cards by 2  
Virginia at Virginia Tech  Cavs by 6  
Vanderbilt by Georgia  Dogs by 30  
Purdue at Illinois  Boilers by I I  
Harvard at Darmouth  Crimson by 14  
Washington at Arizona  Cats by 1  
Mississippi at Miami, Fla.  Canes by 21  
Army at Notre Dame  Irish by 45  
-·-­-.... ·d·~-';!'-.·.;;.t~  

·**•§·LOj?'f'JII'.
-~..... --...-'!&~:.. 
Heels by 15 Terps by 4 Bucks by 8 Tide by 2 Lions by 4 Bears by 7 Trojans by 15 Cards by 5 Gobblers by I Dogs by 24 Boilers by 10 Crimson by 7 Cats by 6 Canes by 8 Irish by 22 
' : "'t-,. .·4· -~ 
Heels by 12 Terps by 4 Bucks by 12 Vols by I lions by 14 Bears by 9 Trojans by 9 Cards by 8 Cavs by 12 Dogs by 20 Boilers by 12 Crimson by 10 Cougars by 6 Canes by 9 Irish by 35 
G'!fr~ • .¢I'W'1 I ·~· 

Heels by 13 Terps by 8 Bucks by 10 Vols by 4 Lions by II Bears by 5 Trojans by 9 Cards by 3 Gobblers by 7 Dogs by 17 Boile.rs by 8 Crimson by 5 Cats by 12 Canes by 9 Irish by 31 
• "r", ~ 

Heels by 7 Heels by II 
Terps by 3 Terps by 14 Bucks by 17 Bucks by 9 Tide by 10 Tide by 8 Lions by 8 Lions by 12 Bears by 7 Bears by 16 
Trojans by 10 Trojans by 30 Huskies by 3 Cards by 10 Gobblers by 7 Cavs by 7 Dogs by 17 Dogs by 28 Boilers by 10 Boilers by 20 Crimson by 6 Crimson by 13 
Cats by 4 Cats by 3 Canes by 10 Canes by II Irish by 21 Irish by 17 
'.,..,.-4 
·-= j ~ 

Heels by 8 
Deacons by 5 
Bucks by 10 Tide by 12 Lions by 7 Bears by 14 Trojans by 17 Cards by 3 Gobblers by 10 Dogs by 29 Boilers by 6 Crimson by 8 Cats by 9 Canes by 8 Irish by 24 
Bill Marquard Sports Writer 43-17, .717 
Heels by 6 Terps by 6 Bucks by 13 Tide by 6 Lions by 10 Bears by 17 Trojans by 3 Cards by 10 Gobblers by 7 Dogs by 23 Boilers by 7 Crimson by 9 Cats by 6 Canes by 7 Irish by 30 

-~ ..:; . ~ :, ...... ·.;­
tr·"· .¥..: 
Gary Grassey Sports Writer 45-15, .750 
Heels by 12 Terps by 4 Bucks by 9 Tide by 7 Lions by 10 Bears by 6 Trojans by 13 Huskies by 2 Cavs by 3 Dogs by 27 Boilers by 1 5 Crimson by 6 
Cats by 13 
Canes by 8 
Irish by 40 







