------------------~~­
' ' Irish Extra -page 5
' 
VOL. XV, NO. 64 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1980 
It 's official 
ND appoints Faust 
By Beth Huffman Sports EJitor 

Cincinnati Moeller High School's Gerry Faust yesterday was officially named to succeed Dan Devine as Notre Dame's 24th head football coach. The appointment, announced by University President Fr. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh, confirmed reports made by The Observer on October 28. 
"We feel quite strongly that Gerry Faust is the perfect in­dividual to carry on the great tradition associated with ath­letics at the University of Notre Dame," said Executive Vice­President of the University Fr. Edmund P. Joyce, who is also the Chairman of the Faculty Board in control of athletics. 
"I don't know of anyone ac­quainted with Gerry Faust who doesn't have the greatest re­spect and admiration for him and his accomplishments," Joyce commented. 
Faust began the Moeller football program in 1960 with a freshman squad and fielded his first varsity team in 1963. In 18 years the graduate of Dayton's Chaminade High School has notched 12 Greater Cincinnati League championships, eight regional titles, five Ohio state crowns and three national championships. 
The most recent state cham­pionship win came Sunday when the Crusaders stomped Massillon High School 30-7 in Cincinnati. The 45-year-old Faust will leave the Ohio foot­ball powerhouse with an im­pressive 17 3-1 7-2 record for a_ winning percentage of .906. 
"I'm extremely pleased and tremendously honored to have been chosen to come to Notre Dame," said Faust. "I said sev­eral years ago the only job other than the one at Moeller in which I would be interested would be at Notre Dame and I meant that sincerely. 
"I'm a strong believer in tra­
dition  and  discipline  in  edu­ 
cating  young  people.  I  don't  
(continued on page 4)  

Owner vexed 
Corby's awaits ABC decision 

Editor's Note: Next Tuesday, Corby's Tavern, formerly a popular socialspot for Notre Dame studertts, wtll learn whether or rtot its liquor liceme will he rertewed for artother year. I" the secortd portiort of this two-part srries, Observer staff reportrr john Higgirts examines tlie defeme put forth by Corby's Tavem l ndustries, specifically its contm­versial spoke.rman, Harold Rowley in the case before the state Alcoholic Heveraxe Commission. 
Ry john M. Hi!!J!.ins 
Staff Reporter 

"I still fail to see what we have done wrong." 
This statement by Corby's Tavern spokesman Harold Rowley summarizes Corby's re­sponse in the debate over the renewal of the bar's liquor license. 
Last April the local board of the Alcoholic Beverage Com­mission recommended to the state commission that renewal of Corby's license be denied. The board cited Corby's 1979 conviction and fine by the ABC for serving alcohol to minors 

Court delays class action suit against University 
By Mark Rust Managing Editor 
The class action suit brought against the University of Notre Dame by 64 present and former women faculty members charging sex discrimination has been granted a continuance to Feb. 17 of next year. 
The suit, previously scheduled for yes~rday at 10 a.m. in US District Court, was moved to the February date after both parties-the University and lawyers for Delores Frese, in whose name the class action is filed-met with Judge Allen Sharp in his chambers on Friday. 
Both parties have been working for weeks on a settlement out of court. According to officials at the U.S. District Court Clerk's office, continuances are usually granted because progress is being made in out ofcourt settlement procedures. The Feb. 17 date represents a time limit on those ne­gotiations imposed by Judge Sharp, who has given the case "first sitting" priority. 
Initial procedures for the class action suit began nearly a year ago when two professors-Josephine Ford and Delores Frese-filed suit against the University charging sex dis­crimination and naming all past and present women faculty members co-plaintiff. This constitutes a "class action." 
In a class action suit, members of the cll.ss have the option of dropping out of the suit, an option about half of the approximately 130 women exercised. 
The Ford v. Notre Dame suit charges t 1e University with unfair hiring, pay and promotion pra• tices in their em­ployment of women. 
Hearings held before the state commission in Indiana­polis were completed last onth and a decision is to be handed down next week. 
Corby's also has accused city officials, incl11ding Mayor Roger Parent, of attempting to fulfill a "political vendetta" by making Corby's the "sacrificial lamb" in a campaign to close all of the bars in the northeast neighborhood. 
Corby's main line of defense 
(continued on paxe 4) 

Keenan contests election 

Senate tneets for first titne 
and other arrests of minors in­side Corby's as the basis for their decision. 
Corby's has appealed that decision to the state ABC, charging that it was "arbitrary and capricious" and that South Bend city officials exerted un­due influence upon the local board to recommend denial of the license. 
By Marty Mosby 

The Student Government's newly established Student Senate met for the first time last night in LaFortune, and the meeting was dominated by two issues; revision of the Campus Life Council's constitution and a new election for the hotly­contested District 2 seat in the Senate. 
. The CLC, which is composed of students, rectors and ad­ministrators, is the only student representative body which has the power to make formal recommendations to the Uni­versity's Office of Student Affairs. The Senate discussed the need to make the CLC a more viable body, and Student Body President Paul Riehle is in the process of revising the CLC constitution to make the Council more representative of student opinion. 
Next, Bill Carson, president of Keenan Hall, contested the legality of Thursday's run-off election in District 2 between Keenan sophomore Hans Hoerdemann and Zahm junior Frank Tighe. Hoerdemann was disqualified for campaign vio­lations before the votes were ever counted, and Tighe was awarded the seat. 
Carson presented a petition .of )00 names callin?. for a re­count or a revote, noting that the original ballots have sin<.:e been destroyed. Carson claimed that the charges made by Ombudsman against Hoerde­mann "were never substantiat­ed," and that the District 2 voters were "disenfranchised" by OBUD's decision to inval­idate all ballots. 
Carson also questioned the severity of the punishment, since Tighe committed a similar violation earlier in the cam­paign and was only fined $5 (20 perct~nt ofallowable expenses). Hoerdemann admmitted that his posters were too large (OBUD rules specify that they be no larger than I I x 17), but disputed other supposed infra<.:­tions. 
Riehle appointed a four-per­son committee, headed hv Judicial Coordinator joh;1 Plunkett, to investigate any improprieties in the handling of the matter. He instructed OBUD Dirc~:tor Tom Phillis and candidate f-loerdemann to testify before the committee, which will report hack to tht· 
Senate  at  its  met·ting  next  
week.  
. Since  no  rules of procedure  

have been established for the 
(umltluu:d 011 f!tiJ;e l) 



~-­


News ;;l;l~r~i~e~ifJ_::s~===:::;:=========T=u=e=sd==a=y,=N=o=v=em=be=r=2=5,=1=9=80=-=p=ag=e::::J2 
by The Observer and The AJJociated Press 
Inside Tuesday 

Must we fidget with digits?
' The death tollclimb~d above 1,oo~ yesterday 
in the earthquake that spread destruct10n and terror m poverty­stricken southern Italy. Rescuers searched 97 damaged towll:s, villages and cities for more victims from Italy's worst quake m 50 years. The government said rescue workers reported they had found 1,012 bodies by last night. Several ~ousand pe?ple were reported injured in the quake that htt Sunday mght. Thousands more were homeless. Rescue efforts were hampered by blocked roads, downed teleph?ne lines and heavy_fog. Butas rescuers reached isolated mountam areas east ofNaples, the full scope ofthe disaster became clear. Damage spread over 10,1?6 square miles, an area incl~ding Naples, Salerno, Mount Vesuvms and the ruins of Pompeu and Herculaneum. -AP 
A tanker collidedwith a workboat near the mouth of the Mississippi River yesterday and the Coast Guard said three of the four people aboard the boat were missing. A diver rescued one man found trapped inside the wreckage. Lt. Cmdr.Tom Pearson said the diver located the crewman shortly before noonand hooked up oxygen equipment. The diver then rescued the man from the submerged wreck and the crewman was rushed toWest} efferson General Hospital in Marrero. The fate of the other three crewmen-two men and a woman­was not immediately known. "The diver found one ofthe four alive inside the boat," said Pearson. "Theother three peopleare still unaccounted for."-AP 
Makin~ their final search for bodies yesterda , fire crews pumped six feet of water from the MGM Gran Hotel's basementand workmen sawed open elevators that plummeted from higher floors during Frid!iy's fire. Officials said they doubted the death toll would climb much beyond 84. The teams of men ~i~h saws wen~ into the basement moments after fire crews ftmshed pumpmg water out of the area, which housed an underground parking garage. Clark County Fire Chief Roy Parrish said a searc~ of two of the final three elevator shafts revealed no bodtes. Parrish, when asked about a report quoting a city fire battalion chief that as many as 40 bodies might yet remain in elevator shafts, said he did not agree. "It does seem unlikely to me," Parrish said. -AP 
The orocess ofselecting RAs 
for the 1981-~2 school year begins December 1, when job applications become available, according to Fr. Gregory Green, assistant vice-president for Student Affairs. The application forms, which may be turned in no later than January 23, must be obtained in person at the Office of Student Affairs, 315 Administration Building. Office ho~rs are 8 a.m. to noon, and 1 to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. Application forms will not be available afterJanuary 15. RA positions are open to prospective 1981-82 seniors and graduate students thatA) conclude the current semester with at least a 3.0 cumulative grade-point average and B) do not hold other "job" responsibilities during the same period of time. Along with the other required application materi~ls, prospective and in-course law students must include a note of approval from Assistant Dean Fr. Michael McCafferty of the Law School. Without this note of approval, applications from law students will not be considered complete. "There is a gooc· deal of paperwork involved in the application process," said Green. "I would therefore encourage those who plan to apply to do so atan early date. Thatwill give them ample time to fill out all of the forms." Additional in­formation pertaining to RA selection can be obta{ned from the Student Affairs office when picking up application forms. -The Observer 
A"bat motel" builttolurenocturnalvisitors to SugarloafShores, f'la., has never done much business, but it's been around long enough to be nominated for placement on the National Register ofHistoric Places. SugarloafShores was developed as a fishing retreat in the 1920s by Richter Clyde Perky. But Perky discovered he couldn't attract many guests with all the mosquitoes in the area. Working on the theory that bats ate mosquitoes, he ordered construction in 1929 ofa 30-foot wooden tower filled with bat droppings in hopes of luring the flying mammals. Although there was an abundance of bats in the Florida Keys then, "no bats ever showed up" at the motel, according to FredL.Johnson, 75, who built the tower. If the shingled tower is accepted .for placement in the Register, Sugarloaf Shores would become eligible for a federal grant to preserve the structure, accord­ing to Wright Langley, director of the Historic Key West Preservaton Board. -AP 
Partly sunnyand cool today with highs in the upper 30s to low 40s. Increasing clouds and cold tonight with lows in the mid 20s. Mostly cloudy and cool tomorrow with highs in the upper 30s to near 40. -AP 
In a case settled last summer, a US citizen was told he could not change his name from a 
L~e 

traditionalJohn Doe-type moniker to the num­ber 1030 because such an alteration would not 
Daley
be legal. The court did, however, grant him 
News Editor 
permission to call himself "Ten Thirty." At the time of the hearing, the man was 


maligned for his so-called "eccentricity." Now, one step further, each citizen would be granted though, it appears that his plan was on target his/her own number. This last proposal would be with the general flow of society. Numbers are especially useful ifthe Postal Service is ever able continually replacing titles in the greater to go fully modern and have the mail flashed scheme of things. directly onto a TV screen. "Mail" as we know it 
The latest example of this numerical assault is would be obsolete. An individual would merely being introduced by the US Postal Service. punch the number of the recipient of the letter, BeginninginJanuary,anew,nine-digitZIPCode type the letter, and the letter would arrive at a will "enable the Postal Service to utilize more computer screen focated in any household in the sophisticated mechanization and automation in US. the sorting and cancelling of mail, thereby re-This plan is probably geared to help the Postal clueing errors, improving cost effectiveness and Service in its struggle for survival. With the increasing efficiency levels," according to Postal rising price of postage, and the length of time Service propaganda. required to carry on a correspondence, tele-
The plan calls for an additional four numbers phones are simply more convenient. However, to be tacked onto the existing five-number code. we cannot forget that the government looms The current system. the Postal Service c~m-~behind the Postal Service. The government has 
plains,  only  distrib­ ~  already spent a great  
utes  the mail  to the  '  deal ofmoney to keep  
correct  post  office,  the Service solvent. It  
where trained sorters  is  not  prepared  to  
must  memorize  the  take its losses without  
routes  of each mail­ ~  some  sort of frontal  
man and see that the  attack on Ma Bell. It is  
letters are directed to  interesting  to  note  
the proper carriers. The extra four digits  p.,..  that vice  the Postal Ser­plans to utilize  
will be read by an op- the telephone indus­ 
tical character reader  ·  •T..<>  ·""'"'""'833 7&~;.  AJ.t:> """'T>& :t...~ ,..w..e"  try to implement tht:  

and a special printer will subsequently emblazon new ZIP Code system by providing a toll-free a "bar code" on the front of the envelope. This number for confust::d letter writers in search of mark, which resembles the strange graphic al-the proper code. ready found on computer coded merchandise, Should this computerized system be deve­will be sorted by highspeed machines, thus loped to its fullest potential, the government improving efficiency by abolishing the oppor-willbe, in effect, given the chance to sift through tunity for human error. private correspondence at will. It is not a cer-
The implications ofthe four-digit addition are tainty, but how practical is it to give the gov­formidable. The plan is that the first half of the ernment the opportunity to censor our mail? number will identify a specific sector, while the The mail would be readily accessible to anyone last two digits will divide these sectors into even with the authority to delve into the master smallersegments. Thesegmentcanbeassmallas computer-and the public would remain un­
one floor of a large building, a cluster of mail-aware. boxes, or a single post office box. This means Eventually, a single nine-digit number would 
that a person could change his/her post office be sufficient identification for every individual. box only to discover that he/she had been These numbers, which could conceivably re­assigned a new ZIP Code. place personal names, would be bestowed by the 
At Notre Dame, post office authorities expect government and controlled by the government that the add-on numbers will be assigned in mid-throughouta lifetime. Such a concept reinforces 1981. They project that eventually each dorm the growing feeling that "Big Brother is will possess a different ZIP Code. watching you." 
Sound confusing? For those of us who do not For now, the idea ofthe extra four numbers is have a knack for numbers, the proposal is not totally unpalatable. If it would improve the terrifying. It is especially difficult to accept when quality ofthe mail service, then it is assuredly an we hear that mail service is not expected to speed improvement. If, as it has been rumored, the up noticeably. service would not noticeably improve, then the 
On a larger scale, the repercussions are whole plan is a horrible scam -designed to reminiscent ofGeorge Orwell's1984. According replace men with machines while offering no to an article in The Wall StreetJournal, one long-benefits to the general public. And, if the idea range goal of the plan is for each individual mushrooms to the point of becoming a science household to have its own code number. Carried fiction horror s~ory, then the public will suffer-
from a da_~gerous loss of privacy. 

f-The.Ohs.et'Y.er_ 
Dnign Edt/or ...... Ryan Ver Berkmoes Dnign AJSillatlfi ......... .Jeanne Laboe Eileen Murphy Ron Haynes l.ai'OIIt Staff ............ Maura Murphy · Diane Mazurek Night Tel'hllkioll ........... Rich Fischer NewI Editor............. Tom Jackman Copy Edt1or . .............. Pam De!:nan Feut11m Luyo111 .......... Molly Woulfe SportJ Copy Editor ...... Mike Ortmann Typiiti .............. Michelle Kelleher Syitemi te<'hNicioll ...... ... Tim Debelius ND Day Editor ............. Barb Biehl S11pplenie11t Luyo11t ........ Paul Mullaney Mike Ortmann Fmnk LaGrotta Photographer .......... ... Gre11 MaurN 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year {$10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved. 


CONGRATULATIONS! NOTRE DAME #1 
Come Celebrate at the 
Fighting Irish Victory Party. Thursday Jan. 1, 1981 9 p.m.-1 a.m. 
Dukes of Dixieland's Dukes Place 
Penthouse -Monteleone Hotel (French quarter) Reservations: (504) 581-1567 
Some New Year's Eve reservations still available -open bar, 4 shows, dancing, champagne and favors at midnight, souvenir record album ­only $45/ person. 



The Observer Tuesday, November 25, 1980 -page 3 






Senate
I I I 

(to!ltl.,/1/ed from pnge 1) 
Senate yet, items on the agenda 
were completed quickly and in­
formally, with debate on the 
CLC and the election occupying 
most of the first meeting. The 
Senate is composed of 19 stu­
dents from four distinct con­
stituencies-student govern­
ment, residence halls, class 
governments and student pop­
ulation districts. 
The Senate was created this 

year by SBP Riehle to "reor­
ganize and unify the student 
body." Last night, Riehle com­
mented, "There is much to get 
involved in by virtue of broad 
representation. 
"The first thing we need to do is establish our credibility as a vital organization on campus," Riehle added. Senior Class President Mickey Turzai sug­gested that the best way to establish credibility would be to bypass theoretical arguments and attempt to achieve con­crete results. 
A great deal of the meeting was devoted to a discussion of the off-campus housing situa­tion. Commenting on the val­idity of working with the city of South Bend to increase security 
Darby's offers films over break 
This Thanksgiving, Darby's Place(located in the basement of LaFortune) will be showing two movies, free to everybody, on or off campus, in the Notre Dame wmmunity. At 3 p.m. the movie 'Carousel'' will be shown. At 7 
p.m. there Nill be a double tcaturt: npe~r-~ with "Brigadoon," 
•..il..w··" by "• :arouse(" a6.1in. 
l'hcrL·~ r.o rt ..tson for students who do r:.:>t go home to spend thei Thanksgiving alone. 
for students living off campus, Riehle remarked "We got $3000 worth of protection for the Senior Death March." 
Off-campus Commissioner Mark Kelley voiced his frustra­tion at working with off-cam­pus students on the crime situa­tion, and presented ideas on methods to combat off-campus apathy. 
Long range plans for the Senate include lobbying for social space, and Riehle said that the old fieldhouse is to be torn down during the summer of 19R2, which may open up a vacancy for a formal space. 
The Senate's next meeting will be next Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. 
16th century feast 
SMC plans for Madrigal dinners 
By Connie Cooney 

The ninth annual Saint Mary's Madrigal Dinners will be held in Regina North Lounge on December 4-7 at 7:00p.m. According to Dr. Raymond Sprague, assistant professor of Music at Saint Mary's, "The Madrigal Dinners are an at­tempt to recreate an English feast celebrated around the turn of the 16th century." To enhance the medieval atmos­phere,. the evenings will consist of a special menu which, ac­cording to Dr. Sprague, "paral­lels around what may have been eaten at that time." Both the Chamber Singers (directed by Dr. Sprague) and the Collegiate Choir (directed by Caroline Knell, assistant professor of Music) are performing throug­hout the evening. For the first time, the Theatre Department is performing a brief presenta­tion of a "mummer's play': which will follow the dinner. A 
mummer's play is a traditional English play in which the­
townspeople dressed in various costumes and performed for the lord of the house. When asked why the Theatre De­partment is involved this year, Dr. Leonard Pawlick, assistant professor of the Communica­tions and Theatre Department said "The chairman of the Theatre Department (Mr. Mitchell Lifton) suggested to me to have a short presentation this year, and I accepted." In the past, the Music Department participated in such perform­ances, with a faculty member portraying the lord of the house. 
This annual celebration dates back 300 to 400 years, about the time of the early Medieval Ages in England. The word "madrigal" is defined as a type of song in which two or more voices sing different melodies. There is usually no instrument­al accompaniment throughout the concert. I tali an composers 

Improved Iranians rally; claim numerous Iraqis losses 
BAGHDAD, (AP)-Iran said it pressed counter-attacks 
.against Iraqi positions all along the war front, claiming hun­dreds of Iraqi casualties in five cities. Both countries attacked each other's oil installations. 
U.N. Special Envoy Olof Palme ended his peace efforts and left Baghdad with no ap­parent expectation of an early cease-fire. He held talks in Iran last week but was told by Prime Minister Mohammad Ali Rajai the effort was a "waste oftime." 
Iranian President Abolhassan Bani-Sadr said Iranian forces repulsed a new Iraqi offensive. on the I rani an border city of Susangerd, 30 miles northwest of the Khuzistan provincial capital Ahwaz, according to an interview at the front by the news agency Pars. 
Bani-Sadr was quoted as cal­ling the two-day battle at Susangerd "an outstanding suc­cess ... An enemy brigade has been destroyed. Between 400 and 490 enemy troops were killed and there are many un­
claimed bodies on the battle­field." Tehran Radio's evening-
broadcast said 30 more Iraqis were killed in Iranian air strikes near Ahwaz, and 70 in strikes at Iraqi positions near Dezful, 85 miles to the north. Both cities 
are  virtually  surrounded  by  
Iraqi troops.  
Eighty-five  miles  south  of  

Susangerd, Iran said Iraqi art­illery sparked new fires at Iran's giant oil refinery at Abadan, on the disputed Shatt al-Arab, but Iran said its defenses pushed the Iraqis a few more miles away from the city, killing or wounding 20. Pars conceded seven Iranians dead. 
Pars said Iranian jetfighters bombed the Iraqi town ofFao, a key pumping station south of Abadan at the mouth of the Shatt, setting oil installations ablaze. There have been reports Iraq had resumed or was about to resume pumping oil. Both combatants ceased oil produc­tion shortly after the fighting began. 

For the coming century 
Committee urges energy reserves 
W ASHINGTON-(AP)-The United States should begin preparing immediately for a maJor disruptions of imported oil supplies sometime 10 the next decade, the Senate Energy Committee said yester­d!ly. 
The country urgently needs to build up its oil reserves, and agreements for handling a cut-off should be worked out with other indeuctrialized nations to prevent severe strain on "the free-world alliance," according to a new report from the committee. 
The current U.S. emphasis on reducing imports is un­realistic, the report said, becuase energY. self-sufficiency "is highly unhkely within this 
century, let  alone  within  the  
next ten years."  
"We  will  have  to  run  in  

order to stand still,'' Sen. Henry M. Jac.kson, 0-W~s~., chairman ot the panel, sa1d 10 releasing the study. 
The United States will be importing large amounts of oil by 1990, even if domestic producers go all out to find new oil and natural gas re­serves and develop other energy sources,the report said. 

And without sufficient re­serves, a major disruption could force the United States into a panicked world market, it said. 
Noting that the political deals made in such a market could threaten the relation­ships among inductrialized nauons, the report urged that agreements be worked out by the United States, its European allies and Japan for action in the event ofa major disruption. 
The links "between energy, the economy and national security will govern national policy in the 1980' ," Jackson said. 
Release of the report-the result of a yer-long investiga­tion into international implica­tions of the energy shortage­marked a kind of last hurrah for Democrats on the commit­tee, which will be controlled by Republicans when the new Congress convenes in January 
At the news conference held to issue the report, Idaho Republican Sen. James McClure, who will become committee chairman next year, said he disagreed with many of its findings. 
The report, "The Geopolitics of Oil," said all industrialized nations, including_ the United States, will be ffected by a major disruption whether or not they are dependant on others for oil. 
Aminority report from committee Republicans said, "It would be a serious mis­take ... for the United States to place its reliance upon foreign policy as the principal means of defending the United States from our foreign petroleum vulnerability.'' 

began writing madrigals in the late 1200's, but the songs didn't become popular until the early 1600's. Madrigals, which were also developed in England, were secular, or non-religious songs. The songs were eventually transformed into sacred mad­rigals. The lyrics were written in the language of the country rather than in Latin. 
Regina North Lounge will be decorated according to custom, and the music and dance will help capture the festive at­mosphere of early Renaissance England. Costumes resembling those worn at the time arc being· worn by the servers, Theatre Department members, and other students. 
Individual seating for the 1980 Madrigal Dinners will begin at 6:30 p.m., followed with dinner at 7:00p.m. Tickets are available through the Saint Mary's Ticket Office for $10 per person. 
Seating will be limited and for those not able to attend the dinners, an open dress rehearsal will be held at 8:00 p.m. on December 2 in Regina North Lounge at no charge. 


NOV. 25,26 From ND CIRCLE 
.Jo CHICAGO O'HARE 


EXPRESSI 

Depts  6:45  a.m.  
Circle  12:15 p.m.  
Arr.  10:00  a.m.  
0'Hare  3:30 p.m.  

To Your Individual Airline Gate 
Return 
(Nov. 30, Dec. ,1) 

Dept 10:55 a.m. O'Hare 4:45 p.m. 8:00p.m. 
(Board lower Level Carson's Circle Restaurant) 
$15 One Way $28 round trip 
Buy Your Ticket From Your Driver 


-~~--~ ~ 

The Observer Tuesday, November 25, 1980-page 4 
• • • Corby's 


(continued from page 1) 
concerns the serving of minors. A Corby's bartender was con­victed in St. Joseph County Superior Court for serving al­cohol to minors following the arrest of three underage stu­dents inside the bar on August 
· 31,1979. TheownerofCorby's, CTI, Inc., was in turn convicted and fined by the ABC on the same charge. 
Anests of minors inside Corby's were made on two oc­casions inJanuary and March of last year. In both cases, how­ever, the state charges against were dismissed. 
According to Masters, the city's recommendation against license renewal was based on those arrests, which he claims were evidence that Corby's was not making an effort to "clean up its act" after the 1979 con­viction. 
sponsible for the littering and disruption of the neighbor­hood. He and his wife, CTI President Rose Kessim Rowley, testified that they spend a con­siderable amount of effort making certain that the area around Corby's is clean, saying that they and their bartenders are outside cleaning the area "four or five times a week." 
Rowley is especially critical of Northeast Neighborhood Council representative Myron Busby's participation in the fight. "I don't believe that hings are happening in the way Busby projects them to be hap­pening," he said. "I think it's a deception to way that Corby's has 'broken its word' with the neighborhood without men­tioning that Busby at the same time characterizes the students as a bunch of slobs. 
Busby has complained that students travelling to and from 

Harold Rowley, CTI Secre­tary and Corby's spokesman, says that those arrests should not have been considered be­
cause  the  charges  against  
Corby's  in  those  cases  were  
dismissed.  

Rc:pwley also contends that the charges were dismissed be­cause he and his attorneys suc­cessfully argued before an ABC hearing that Corby's could not be held responsible for the 
January and March arrests be­cause those students involved used false identification to en­ter the bar. "If someont; has identification stating they are 21 and they seem to be of age, we are not responsible," he said. 
"I regret that we even have that one conviction," Rowley said, "but the fact remains that the ABC found that we were not responsible in those other ar­rests." 
"It is our policy that every ID is checked," Rowley said. How­ever, he admitted that this policy is "only good if the em­ployees carry it out." 
The strength of Corby's ar­guments lies in the charge that city officials are using Corby's as the "sacrificial lamb" in their "political" campaign to close the bars in the five-points area. 
Rowley charges that Parent ordered 500 arrests to be made at the bars in the five-points area on St. Patrick's Day last year. In addition, Rowley main­tains that Captain Vison Smith of the South Bend Vice Squad requested to be transferred be­cause of pressure from the mayor's office, and that Robert Potvin, one of Parent's assis­tants, is determined to close Corby's because of a personal grudge against Rowley. 
However, at the ABC hear­ings Rowley was unable to pro­duce· testimony to support his accusations. But-in a later in­terview, Rowley related that Potvin came into the bar to serve papers to Rowley on one occasion, and in the midst ofan argument, Potvin said he would 
'see that we would never be able to renew our lict:nse." 
Rowlev refused to elaborate further about the conversation . or .the reason Potvin would want to close Corby's. 
Rowley also took exception to charges that Corby's is re-the bars are responsible for a great deal of the va'ndalism that occurs in the neighborhood. He charges that students travelling to and from the bars have lit­tered the neighborhood, van­dalized and stolen property and urinated on people's front porches. 
Rowley says that even ifthose problems do exist, they cannot be directly attributed to Corby's. "That's ridiculous," he said. "Busby seems to have divined some method that says all of the students walking through the neighborhood come from Corby's. It just doesn't work. "A lot of the students travel through the 5­points area because they live just beyond it. To say they're all coming from the bars is ab­surd," he concluded. 
"Ifthese things are going on, and I don't know that they are, you can't just say they're all coming from Corby's," Mrs. Rowley said. "No one's running around with badges that say 'I drank at Corby's.' 
·'I don't like being accused of littering the whole neighbor­hood," Mr. Rowley said. "It's impossible. People don't walk out of Corby's with cups on 
more  than  two  or  three  oc­ 
casions  a  year  (i.e.  football  
weekends.)  .  

Rowley also accused Busby of looking after "business inter­ests" in his participation in the Corby' case rather than any "social welfare concerns." 
Busby, an owner of rental properties who is also a former Notre Dame admissions coun­selor, called Rowley's com­ments "too petty to deserve a response." 
"It's just the Big Lie, this whole thing is nothing but the Hig Lie," Rowley said, referring to a maxim Adolph Hitler was fond of saying that if you tell a lie enough times to enough people, they all will believe it. "The fact is that in four years of intensive operations, we have one violation. 
"The track record is not one by which we should be sum­marily dismissed as being out­side the law or not being a'good neighbor.' 
"It would be a terrible shame for the traditions and associa­tions of Curby's with the Un­iversity community to go down the drain...., 

The St. Ed's reconstruction continues with tear-down and butld-up (photo by Greg Maurer). 

• • • Faust 
(continued from page 1) 

believe there is a university in 
the country that combines 
those two items along with aca­
demic and athletic excellence 
better than Notre Dame does." Notre Dame's current roster lists six former Faust players: Bob Crable, Tony Hunter, .Harry Oliver, Tim Koegel, Dave Condeni and Rick Naylor. Last year 23 Crusaders received .college football scholarships, making nearly 100 former Moeller players active at the 
collegiate level. 

"I wasn't real suprised," said 
Irish tri-captain Crable, who 
was an all-America selection at 
Moeller. "There was a lot oftalk 
and I thought it was substan­
tiated." 

With. an enrollment of 980 
young men in grades 9-12, 

oeller, a Marianist-run school, 
has a football team with 210 
members. Seventeen assistant 
coaches and Faust direct a pro­
gram that includes three teams 
with full season schedules: an 
all-freshman squad, an all-
sophomore squad, and a varsity squad. 
Faust, a three-time football letter wil}ner at quarterback for the University of Dayton, not only directs the football pro­gram, but serves as the school's athletic director, heads a build­ing fund-raising drive that re­cently completed a million dol­lar addition, runs an annual walk-a-than, chairs the Booster Club, and logs time as the eighth grade orientation direc­tor. 
He will be the first individual to make the jump from high school coaching to Notre Dame head coach since TerryBrennan in ·1954. Brennan, who left Chicago Mount Carmel for South Bend, compiled a 32-18 record prior to his firing in 1958. 
"Moeller just isn't any high school, it's special, and some people just don't realize that," daims Crable, who does not hesitate when saying Faust can 
-"definitely do the job.'' Faust began his football ca­reer as a quarterback for his 
father, Fuzzy, at Chaminade. The elder Faust directed Chaminade football for 20 years and retired just last year after49 years as a teacher. 
It was at his alma mater high school that Gerry Faust first became a football coach. After two years as that school's of­fensive and defensive backfield coach, he moved to Moeller·and established his farm system for major colleges. 
In a press conference sched­uled for 11 a.m. today in the ACC, Faust will be presented to the media in his first official appearance as Notre Dame's new coach. 

Cousteau speaks tonight 
Noted underwater expert JeanMichel Cousteau will speak tonight at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 

. EJ·•or Mark Rust
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managmg uz., . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Editorials Editor......~ •... Mike Onufrak University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. It does not necessarily Senior Copy Editor ... Mary Fran Callahan reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reponed 
k

Executive News Editor ..... TomJac man
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views News Editor ; · • · · · · · · · · · · · · Pam Degnan of their ~ uthors Column space is available to all members of the community, and News Editor........ ········ Lynne Daley the free eJ(pressron of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC Executive Editor...... Margie Brassil 
Editorial Board and De{Jartment Managers 
Editor-in-Chief.~ .......... Paul Mullaney 
SMC News Editor·········. Mary Leavitt Sports Editor ............. Beth Huffman 
. Features Edztor ·· · · · ·······Molly Woulfe Phot? Editor.··············· .John Macor 
Busmess Manager . .......... Greg Hedges Controller .............•...... .Jim Rudd Advertising Manager ........... Mark Ellis Circulation Manager ........ Beth Hackett Production Manager ....... .John McGrath 



L_____________________________________________________________________________ 




.~ 







The Irish Extra 
Tuesday, November 25, 1980-page 5 

Kelly Tripucka and Orlando Woolridte were on top ofthe world Ofter Notre Dame's stunnin[? 76-74 double-overtime victory over undefeated DePaul at the ACC last season. 
Seniors set example 
Captains provide leadership 
By Beth Huffman Sports Editor 

Admitting that his kingdom is a monarchy, rather than a democracy, head coach Digger Phelps says he knighted "the people who can best represent the team" to captain the 1980-81 Notre Dame basketball team. To lead his troops Phelps has touched his golden sword to the senior shoulders of Tracy Jackson, Orlando Woolridge and KeOy Tripucka. 
"The tri-captains must assume a leadership role," says Phelps. "Each one can contribute and put his personality into the team's personality." 
For Sir Woolridge, personality is his biggest asset. 
"I see my main role as keeping the otherguys going through the good and bad," says Notre Dame's Duke of Dunk who wants to help the freshman "feel at home." "My personal tactic is inducing laughter in practice ... it eases tensions." 
While the 6-9 Woolridge serves as the basketball court jester to keep his teammates going, Jackson points to a willingness "to stay after practice and help out" and building confidence in the underclassmen as some of his own key contributions. 
In his effort to aid this year's four rookies, Jackson admits to still being a pupil himself. 
"We're still learning ourselves," · claims Jackson, whose swish shots could well earn him the Baron of the Bucket title. 
Notre Dame's Crown Prince, Kelly Tripucka, agrees with his fellow tri­captain, saying, "It's a beginning-to­end learning process. I'm a senior and I'm still learning." 
Tripucka, who notes his key role as one ofleadership, also designates a key job for Woolridge, Jackson and himself as that of a medium between the coaching staff and the team. 
"We must relate to the coaches the thinking and views of the team as a medium," says Tripucka. "And it 
(continued on page 6) 
Cagers ready for 

1980 campaign 
By Gary Grassey Sports Wrrter 
On the surface, this looks like anything but a different Notre Dame basketball team. 
Same old Digger. Another year for the Tripucka-Woolridge-Jackson trio. More fabulous freshmen. A bench as long and deep as any in the country, etc. 
The obvious similarities between this 
year's Irish and past Digger Phelps 
creations, however, have been tempered 
by a handful'ofadditions and innovations 
which hli\.ve the potential to produce in 
this 1980-81 season the mixture 
necessary to bring the ebullient Notre 
Dame coach and his team the one prize 
that has eluded them time and again when 
the NCAA tournament takes place every 
March. 
"There are a lot of unknowns yet," instructed the 39-year-old Phelps, whose nine-season tour at Notre Dame includes 183 victories and seven consecutive NCAA tournament bids. "There are a lot of question marks we've got to create for ourselves because what we've got to face is a season of just playing to condition ourselves for March." 
The answers begin with the returning senior tri-captain unit of Kelly Tripucka, Orlando Woolridge, and Tracy Jackson. During the seven game stretch run last season leading to the NCAA playoffs­
following a homecourt loss to North Carolina State-that included Notre Dame's stUnning upset of unbeaten and top-ranked DePaul, this threesome became the Irish source of offense, averaging well over 50 points a game as a group. 
The 6-6 Tripucka (18.0 ppg. in 1980/14.4 ppg. career), 6-9 Woolridge (12.2/9.4), and 6-5 Jackson (15.1/10.4) return to Phelps' 1980-81 lineup with a few new twists. 
While All-America Tripucka will continue to donate his power game at one forward spot, Woolridge will abandon the center spot he was forced to occupy a year ago and move back to his more natural forward position. Woolridge, Notre Dame's 'Sir Slam', had his difficulties as a junior playing the low post against bigger and stronger opponents, as well as seeing his outside effectiveness on offense diminish. 
Jackson, the team's leading rebounder 
(7.1 per game) as a forward last year, steps into Notre Dame's backcourt to team with sophomore point guardJohn Paxson. Gone from the guard picture are graduated starters Rich Branii.ing, who plays for Athletes in Action, and Bill Hanzlik, now a player for the NBA Seattle Supersonics. 
As for the new roles, "Offensively, I don't think anything changes their style of play," said Phelps. "If anything, they are making new changes which will effect their defensive role. It's a little different playing a defensive center than it is playing a defensive forward situation. That's a. challenge we're trying to get across to Orlando. The same goes for Tracy. 
"We have gone to. more· set patterns than just motion in the offense," he added. "That will allow some more of their individual talents to come through, but we'll continue to be multiple and react the way defenses dictate." 
The position changes have been made possible by the return to Phelps' contingent of a natural center'to clog up the middle. Freshman Joe Kleine, who brings a 6-11, 240-pound fram,e and 31.3 ppg/20.1 rpg averages to Notre Dame 
(continued on page 7) 


------~------­
The Irish Extra Tuesday, November 25, 1980 -page 6 

a 

TraC)I jackson Kelly Trtpucka 
(continued from page 5} 

works in reverse, too -we relate or 
explain the coaching view to the 
players." 

Tripucka includes relating his past experiences as a helpful tool in tutoring the freshmen, along with "just keeping them going with a pat on 
the back." 

"It works the same way in practice as 
in a game," says Tripucka, "We just 
can't let them get down. It's worse in a 
game for the freshmen because they .are a lot more nervous and if 
somethinggoes wrong they will reach a 
breaking point, and from there it's all 
downhill." 

The last time Phelps tapped tri-captains was during the 1976-77 season when Bill Paterno, Ray Martin and Toby Knight led the Irish to a 22-7 season and the second round of the NCAA tournament But it's not the second-round finish, or even the coveted Final Four that Notre Dame 
·----------------------------------------~

1 Sign-Up I 
i LONG ISLAND CLUB I I Christmas Bus I 
I I 
l 9 : 30-11 : 00 pm. Tuesday, Nov. 2 5 Little Theatre, LaFortune I L 
---------------------------------------~ 
• • • Captains 
achieved in 1979, that King Richard Phelps, his Knights of the Round Ball and troops are hoping for this year. 
It's Camelot-the ultimate, the best-the national crown. 
"These seniors have tasted the Final Four and this is their last chance to not justget there," says Phelps, "but win it." 

Orlando Woolridge 
The Best in 
Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00 P.M. Closed Sundays & Holidays 


HERTZ ECONOMY FARES, 


WEEKENDS 
FROM$17.99 A DAY. 
Call234-3712 
These Economy Fare!' ar( 

Touring Rates, subject 1< • change without noticv and non discountab!l' 
There are minimum da\ and advanc;· reservation requirements. _anci 

( ~ on when
re~~dtio=ns 
. where cars ...,• 

must be returned. Gas is not included. Call 
Hertz for details. ® 
WHERE WINNERS RENT. 
lti.HT/HI"NI'-oiOflll'-o'\NIHlllll HllNI I AI!'• 



~---­

The Irish Extra Tuesday, November 25, 1980 -page 7 
Digger: You gotta have priorities 
I have no catchy phrases to open this column with. I need none. Nor do I have any long-winded introductions about the subject of the piece. Again, I need none. I need only one word, and that word already appears in the title: Digger. 
Even the freshmen who have been here for only a few months know Digger. Many know his background; most are familiar with his reputation. _ 
What is that reputation? 
Many liken Digger to the almost god-like figures of Ara Parseghian and Knute Rockne, figures who immortalized this campus years ago, figures who are responsible for spawning Notre Dame's present football reputation (with a little help from a man called Devine along the way, of course.) · 
Indeed, Digger is like these men in that respect. In nine years of coaching, he has done for Notre Dame basketball what few men before him were able to do: build a winningprogram. Not a winning team, or a winning season, but a winning program. There is a difference. 
Year after year, Digger's teams have had winning records, and in each of the last seven seasons, he has guided his team to an NCAA playoff berth-a boast no other coach in the country can make. 
He has suffered just one losing season in his Notre Dame career, that being his first. A lot ofthe blame for that could go to Johnny Dee, the coach who left Digger practically nothing to work with. 
The Fighting Irish were pitiful in that first year under Digger. Everybody has heard about the embarrassments in Bloomington and Los Angeles. Some you may not have heard, however: a 109-83 loss to Frank McGuire and South Carolina, or a 104-77 loss to Creighton, (that's right, Creighton) or an 89-72 loss to Fordham (yes, that's the same Fordham the Irish beat up these days). 
Digger, though occasionally disappointed, was never discouraged. That optimism results from a situation that arose in 1972 and still exists today. 
"As I look back to when I was hired by Father Joyce and 
Moose Krause," says Digger, "they just said 'Don't cheat, go by­the rules, and just try to get a program that can compete with the rest of the schools in the country.' They never said 'Win a national title,' or 'We expect you to go undefeated.' We're trying to get these guys ready for life, and you're not always going to be the best. It's a matter ofestablishing your priorities, and it's something Notre Dame does very, very well." 
With these guidelines and priorities, Digger built his 
program. And it didn't take long. 
In only his second season, Digger took his team to the finals 
of the NIT, where a loss to Virginia Tech prevented the most 
incredible comeback in recent memory. 
The following year, Digger's Irish got their first NCAA bid. They've been getting them ever since. That's because of the talented people that have been playing under Digger. That's because of Digger himself. That's because ofFr. Hesburgh and Fr. Joyce and Moose Krause. That's because of priorities. 
Digger still has his priorities. Take coaching, for instance. "I don't want to die as a basketball coach," he says, while sitting in his plushly carpeted (green, naturally) ACC office. "I 
Mark 

Hannuksela 

·ust think there are things I want to do with mylife. For now, this is the thing for me to do, with my wife teaching in the law school, apd my kids, 
who are 11, I 3 and 15, still young. Their roots 
are here. Those four people have given me 
an opportunity to get my career going, and I 
think now I owe them that same opportunity, 
to let them get their careers going. 
"There are a lot of things out there," says Digger when asked what would follow basket­ball. "There's public service, media work, politics, but in a silent way-I'd never want to .. ­be a politician, but if a guy like Bill Bradley was runnin_g for president in 1992 and I had a chance to do something for him in some capacity, I would do it. There's a lot to be done with charity; there's a lot to be done with social awareness, making people aware ofthe social problems, andsaying'Hey, what can I do to help?' I think there's going to be a day when I can just walk away from basketball and just look back and say 'Hey, it has been a great part of my life.' Sure, I'll probably miss it, but working with the youth, letting them know what they will face out there, I think that part of it I will always do.'' 
Last year, much was made of Digger being the next head coach of the NBA's New York Knicks. Says Digger now, "It's flattering that my name keeps popping up in New York, but I just don't think, for many reasons, I could handle it. I don't really like the travelling and that particular lifestyle._ Yea, I understand that the challenge would be there, but I don't think I could put a dollar value on what it means for myfamily to have all the direction they have going now-stopped, and pick up and start in a new direction. I don't think it's fair to them." 
Priorities. 

Many people have compared Richard Phelps to Paul Bryant. The Bear has never beaten aNotre Dame football team. Digger has never won a national championship. Bear doesn't want it put on his tombstone "Here lies the man that never beat Notre Dame." Digger doesn't want put on his tombstone "Here lies the man that never won a national championship." 
"IfBearBryant has to put that on his tombstone, ifthat'swhat he's going to be remembered for, then I think people are naive," says Digget. "There are so many other things that he has done. I mean when you think of Alabama, you think of Bear Bryant and football." · 
"To say'Digger Phelps never won a national championship,'" he concluded, "wouldn't make me the only person in that category. But even ifl won a national championship, I wouldn't want that put on my tombstone. There are other things that are more important to me. I mean we want to win it as much as anybody else, but ifwe don't win it can we handle it. I have to say yes." 
Priorities. 
• • • Cagers 

(continued from page 5) 
from his hometown in Slater, Mo., has been called upon to open at the center position for the Irish this Saturday against UCLA. 
"His (Kleine's) role is to rebound, take up space, and set screens," cautioned Digger. "He doesn't have to worry about scoring. I think Tripucka, Woolridge, and Jackson will rebound better offensively as long as Kleine's in there taking up space." 
Kleine and senior Gil Salinas, who doubles as a forward offthe bench, should share the center spot until 6-10 sophomore Tim Andree returns to playing shape, following a pre-season ankle injury. "I think Tim Andree hasn't shown us yet what he's improved on," said Phelps. 
Paxson, the 6-2 guard who is expected to quarterback the Irish, played in all but one game last season as a freshman, averaging 17 minutes per game, contributing 62 assists, and hitting at a4.6 ppg clip as the first man off the bench. 



"John is a creative ballplayer," Phelps said, "With or without the ball. He's either gonna get the ball himself and score or get the ball and make sure somebody else scores. He just plays his game, and I don't think there's any reason to make comparisons with Branning." 
Scoring should not be a problem with that kind oflineup, so Digger and his staff have been preaching defense in preseason practice sessions. "Because we have a very big physical team," said Phelps, "Our emphasis has got to be defense. And that leads us to rebounding situations." 
Sophomore Bill Varner, a year wiser after playing in 24 games and chipping in 
3.7 ppg in 1979-80, should see plenty of 

... 
i\ 
iU

,.. \_ ')J -.. 
.,. 
r

' 
•\ --~'l' \ \ ' ___., 
I
~~ ........ ~ ,_

il 1 
time as a top forward reserve. The 6-6 Varner poured in 23 points last Sunday during the squad's annual intersquad Blue-Gold scrimmage. 
Senior Stan Wilcox, who has been nursing an ankle sprain, and junior Mike Mitchell, coming offknee swrgery, return to the Irish backcourt. 
Notre Dame's depth is enhanced by the arrival of three freshmen, in addition to Kleine. Tom Sluby, an explosive 6-4 leaper from Washington, D.C., and 6-7 Detroiter Barry Spencer can perform as guards or forwards and will gain court time as the season progresses. Sluby contributed six key second half points during last Thursday's comeback win over the Polish National team. This pair will be joined by slender 6-8 forward Cecil Rucker, a D.C. graduate of Mackin High School-the training ground for past Irish greats Austin Carr and Duck Williams. Walk-ons Kevin Hawkins and Marc Kelly round out this season's roster. 
"The freshmen are coming into it,'' observed Phelps, "but it takes time. You could see the difference a year made in Varner (during the Blue-Gold game). When you play as a freshman, juniors and seniors out there will beat you just because of experience." 
A team meeting last year after the North Carolina State loss aired questions from the team about Phelps' liberal substitution policy. As a result, the team resorted to a six-man rotation the rest of 
Considering his abundance oftalent for the upcoming campaign, though, Digger felt, "Because we have depth, we've just got to play our bench. When you play your bench with consistency, you don't worry about foul trouble. 
"When we played Missouri last year (Notre Dame's opening-round NCAA playoff loss), some of the guys that came off the bench played as subs. They thought we lost confidence in them. Then when we needed them in a game like Missouri, we didn't get it out of them. 
"When you play nine or ten guys all year and they really feel like they're a strong part ofit, they're not corning in as a sub. Mentally they're a different type of player." 
With a beefed-up "power game" schedule-Digger lists 14 contests in that category-the Irish hope to simulate all the problems they'll bee wherever the_y end up in the 48-tt·arn March playoff. 
"All we want to do," insisted Digger," is go each moment, see what we have to do and just give it all we have. 
"The NCAA tournament is a whole new season,'' he added. "I want to emphasize that the road schedule and the power games have got to be a type ofseasoning for us to handle March. Then'it all depends on who's in your bracket and how many underdogs can play like Missouri did and shoot 70 per cent in the second half." 
School starts Saturday evening in 


Andree, Paxson, Varner {from left)-Digger's sophomore contingent the way. Pauley Pavilion. 
The Irish Extra Tuesday, November 25, 1980-page 8 

joe Kleine Cecil Rucker Tom Sluby Barry Spencer 




ND's 'four-star' freshman class 
Kleine Sluby 
By Skip Desjardin By Dave Irwin Sports Writer Sports Writer 
. •. 
People notice Joe Kleine wherever A us tin Carr, Collis Jones, Sid Catlett, he goes. Bob Whitmore, Adrian Dantley, Tracy They don't have much choke. At 6-Jackson and Tom Sluby. Oops! What 
11, Kleine is almost always the tallest was that last name? 
person in any group. Heliterally stands Tom Sluby is one of four freshman head and shoulders above the crowd. 
recruits on this year's Fighting Irish "I've gotten used to it," he says. 
basketball team, and before he "Sometimes it gets to be a pain when graduates he may add his name to that everybody I meet asks me if I am a list of Irish stars hailing from the basketball player. I'm also pretty sick Washington, D.C., area. 
of being asked how the weather is. 
"The four freshman will probably . Overall, though, it has its advantages." 
play a little," the shy 6-4, 200-pounderOne of the main advantages to says. "Digger, I guess, is getting us 
Kleine's height is that it is enabling ready for next year."
him to be the starting center for the Sluby may see a little bit more action 
1980-81 Fighting Irish basketball than he thinks. Before coming to .$pecJtacula,r s<eniot season at team. It seems that Digger Phelps was Notre Dame, he was all-Everything at School, also one of the people who "noticed" Gonzaga High School. He was named .,~~o.t·on1 . .Michiga:n, which he led 
Joe Kleine. by Basketball Week(y, Parade and Coach Lt:OIHJ>tl to a 224 mark and the Detroit "There is no doubt thatJoe was one and Athlete to all-America teams and League Crown, his name was of the best high school seniors in the selected as Player of the Year in the • in virtually everyHighSchoolcountry last year," says Phelps. Washington, D.C., area. All·Amc~rh:an squad in the nation,
Basketball people around the country The Howard Hall resident averaged r o;:nl~:t~•u.uJtM a secondteam All-American agreed, as Kleine was named to several 25 points, 19 rebounds, 1 7 assists Parade, anda spotonthetophigh school all-America 'teams. "We (though according to Sluby it was 1vncuonaJo's "Dream Team" needed a center, and we decided that closer to nine) and five blocked shots I\Y1[idiiriitl~ •dru;srrla:tc~s Joe Kleine and Joe was the best one available. We're Spencer's 24.5 scoringper game his final prep year.
very pleased that he decided to come rnost notieeable.statistic
Sluby, a top-notch student who
to Notre Dame." ·senior year, but the rest ofhis
consistently made the dean's list in If one asks Kleine why he came tc 
li>,1h~:UJDeJ~·,-thirteen rebounds, seven

high school, is not having any 
Notre Dame, one gets a very familiar blocked shots, and three
problems adjusting to college life. 
answer. "I liked the way that this game -moreaptly describe
"Practice was roughat first. We did a 
school emphasizes both academics and . of player he is.
lot of running, but that's coming 
athletics," he smiles. "I know that "Barrydoesitall," saysirishassistant
along," Sluby says. "But its better
everyone says that, but it really is true .coach Tom McLaughlin of the 
when you practice because you adjust
in my case. There are better schools for freshman who played three positions 
your time better. When we aren't in high schooL"He's a great teamacademics, and better schools for practicing I have a tendency to goof p_tlayer with a brilliant shooting touch.
athletics. Notre Dame manages to around." .f{is best asset, though, may be thecombine the best of both worlds, and Sluby has also noticed changes on jntelligence that he displays on thethey do it better than anyone else. 
the court. "There are a lot more good court-knowing what to do and
"I know one thing, I sure didn't . ..
players," Sluby says. "And it is reallycome here for the social life." 
physical. Practices are a lot more Spencer's intelligence is notSome freshmen pick things up faster intense than high school." . UJffillceu to the basketball floor: Thethan others. Right now, Kleine is The physical part should be no litchi.te<:ture major accumulated a 3.7concentrating on picking up Digger 
Phelps' system of basketball. He is problem for Sluby. Just looking at him grade pointaverage. going to be a central figure in that reminds you offormer IrishstarAdrian . with so much going for hirn, system throughout the season that is Dantley. The way they walk, talk and SnPn,~..r, high school superstar, 
handle themselves along with their 
lit~~hould. exfie(:tthatthingsshouldcomeabout to get underway. 
physical build, comparisons are going easy incollegefor the'swingman"Tht:re is a lot of pressure involved to be made between the two. And from ' But when someone starts on ain playing basketball, especially on a the way Sluby assesses his game, the national championshipmajor college level. I don't think the similarities continue. and faces strongfact that I'll be starting adds much to "I like playing inside a lot. I like tothe pressure," says Kleine, "It's pass and rebound," the versatile things aren't quite that simple.
something that you get used to, and swingman says. "The closer to the won't hear the star freshmanhave to cope with, whether you are a basket, the better I like it. I like to face .
starter, a back-up, or someone who it and drive to the hoop."
sees very little action." 

Sounds a lot like Dantley. And from "One of the reasons that I came to ·.. ·· .....·· ·. . these thr~e clowns graduate, the way Sluby can shoot free throws, would be earned throughNotre Dame was because I thought I 
says Spencer, "I have no 34 straight. 
had a shot at a starting position. When ·· ··s~if:~;~~cg6:r~··;()h:h:~~~:;rzt~he that is good news, because he once hit 
personal goals set for myself this year Tim Andree got hurt, I knew I would basketball guide featuring $epJor·tri~.... · because right now the practices andhave to get the job done myself, at least captains Woolridge, Tripucka and· ··· Sluby's reputation almost makes everything are justJearninghim seem superhuman, but he is awareat the beginning of the season. I've got .Tracy'jackson. 

;experiences. I can't set my sights onof his limitations. 

that set in my mind, and I'm not going Rvcker knows whath.e has to do; "I'm a step.slow," he admits how many minutes I play per gameto let anything distract me." ... ''I'm notas strong nowas I should be, realistically. "I don't anticipate real right now, because I'm moreHis play in practice this fall indicates admits, '"and Ihave to gets<;>me well. I'm starting to do better now. It concerned with learning our playingthat he has accomplished what he set more weight on' me." Oh, how that will come eventually." 
~ystem betterso that I can help when to.mind a ceriajn forward from Obviously, the well-built swingman out to do. who~e piftu.re ofCecil ,Rucker brings needed!'
"Joe gives us a lot ofthe muscle that we need up front," says Phelps. "We Mansfield, La~.~ :who checked in as a was sought by many schools. Sluby 
> •. Thus the h;ud-work philosophy sets narrowed his choices down to Holy 
'in on the player who knows the value

need to have him pulling down a lot n · freshman justone inch taller and five 

(CQ1ltinuf_d on page J())

(continued on page 9)
(continued on page 9) ••• ••••m········•·····•• .)(§oflt(J?!tedrtf!pdge.f))······ 

r---------------­
The Irish Extra Tuesday, November 25, 1980-page 9 
It's what's up front that counts 
By Matt Huffman Sports Wrtter 

It often sounds cliche or rah-rah to claim that your team or some part ofit is the best in the nation. But for Notre Dame basketball fans this year, it doesn't take much faith to believe that the best pair of collegiate forwards in the nation will be at home in the ACC. 
With the possible exception of DePaul's Mark Aguirre and Jim Mitchem (with emphasis on possible) Kelly Tripucka and Orlando Woolridge are the best pair in the country. 
The 6-6, 240-pound Tripucka returns as a three year starter with solid credentials. He led the Irish in scoring for the second consecutive time last year, despite missing four games with a back sprain. In addition, he held a team-high . 762 free-throw percentage and led the Irish in scoring eleven of twenty-two games. 
With the new starting five Tripucka will not be expected to provide as much strength on the offensive boards as last year (though he did rebound at a 
6.6 clip last year). The Essex Fells, N.J., native's patented baseline jumper should be prevalent in the Irish scoring thrust this year. 
In practice Woolridge appears relaxed and professional, as well he might. The 6-9, 215-pound All-American is a sure bet to break into the NBA as a power forward. But for now, Irish fans will be able to enjoy watching him slamming and jamming Notre Dame to a possible sixth-consecutive twenty-win season. 
Woolridge has also proven himself in previous campaigns. Included in his accomplishments from last year are a 
12.2 points per game average, 6.9 rebounds per game and a team-leading . 585 field goal percentage. 
After spending a year at center, the Mansfield, La., native will be able to play at his native position of forward. In the Blue-Gold game on Nov. 16 "The Tree," as he is affectionately known, demonstrated his new freedom by blocking outside shots, intiating fastbreaks and pumping in long jumpers. 
Expected to lend help at the forward position is 6-11, 21 5-pound senior Gil Salinas. Salinas scored at a 4.0 clip while starting five games last year because of injuries to Tripucka and Woolridge. 
Sophomore Bill Varner, who scored 
3. 7 points per game, will lend further experience to the forward relief core. Junior Kevin Hawkins is a third returning veteran forward. 
Three freshmen will be demonstrating their talents in the two forecourt positions. Cecil Rucker is a 6-8, 190-pound rookie who scored 
21.2 points per game for Washington's Mackin High School-the school that 

(continued from pa~;e 8} 
rebounds, and, so far, he's shown that is just what he is going to do. This team has got to dominate the boards to win, and with Tracy Jackson moved to the backcourt, we need players who aren't afraid to go up in the air after the basketball. The last thing that Kleine is is afraid to go to the boards." 
In fact, one of his early problems has been that he is too physical. He has had some trouble keeping himself from committing fouls. His coach is not worried about that, though. 
"Every freshman goes out there and goes wild on the court. It is only natural that they would pick up a few fouls. Joe simply gives everything he has to the game," Phelps says in Kleine's defense. "It will only be a matter of time before he realizes that he can accomplish as produced Notre Dame great Duck 
Williams. 
Also listed are Tom Sluby (6-4, 200 lbs.) of Washington, D.C., and Barry Spencer (6-7, 195 lbs.) of Detroit, Michigan. The two swingmen are also slated to help out with the backcourt duties. 
With the center spot open after Woolridge's exodus, a battle has been waged for the starting spot between sophomore Tim Andree and freshman 
Joe Kleine. 
"If we had a game tomorrow we would probably go with Kleine at the center and Woolridge and Tripucka at the forwards. This would leave Jackson to fill in in the backcourt," explained assistant coach and former Notre Dame star Gary Brokaw. 
At 6-11 and 240 pounds, Kleine is 
• • • Kleine 

much, and often more, with a little 
finesse. 
"There is no way that I'm going to tell him to be less aggressive out there. We need an aggressive frontcourt. I don't want him to lose any of the intensity that he has out there. Besides, you can't tellJoe Kleine to slow down, to give less than one hundred percent at all times; he just can't do it." 
Kleine has handled the transition from high school to college student as well as he has the change from being a high school basketball player to a starter in the college ranks. 
"It was a big change coming here from Slater. Back home, everybody knew everybody else. It's a real small town, and I was kind of worried about leaving it, at first," he confesses. "But I 
the biggest man on the Irish squad. His 
rebounding ability will augment that 
of the top three rebounders from last 
year, Tracy Jackson, Tripucka, and 
Woolridge. 
The Slater, Missouri, native was 

credited with scoring 31.3 points per 
game and grabbing 20.1 rebo.unds per 
contest last year. 
Andree is a 6-10, 230-pound 
sophomore from Farmington, 

Michigan. He scored at a 3.6 rate last 
year and logged more than ten minutes 
of playing time per game. 
"We feel very confident with the 
lineup that we have at forward and center. Our bench should provide . excellent strength when we need it. 

The ability of most of the guys to play 
more than one position should be a big 
help, also," said Brokaw. 

haven't had any real problems adjusting. The people here have been great to be with. It's almost as if I've just moved to another small town. Coach Phelps had talked to me about the Notre Dame 'family,' but you really can never understand what it is really about until you get here and experience it." 
Joe Kleine is picking up a lot of experience in his first year at Notre Dame, both on the court and off. But there is one experience that he wants to take away from his freshman year more than any other. 
"I want to be in Philadelphia when the NCAA finals roll around," he says with determination. 
Ifthe Irish are indeed in Philadelphia come March, then Joe Kleine will have done his job extremely well. 
• • Sluby
' 
I 
(continued from pa~c 8) 
Cross, University ofVirgina and Notre Dame. 
"When you talk about academics and athletics, this is the place to be," Sluby 11ays. 
Orlando Woolridge and Tracy Jackson also played a role in Sluby's signing with the Irish. • 
"They talked to me. They did a little convincing," Sluby says. "J talked with Adrian once or twice, too." 
The seniors have also helped now that Sluby and the rest ofthe freshmen have arrived on campus. "They help us out. They talk to us about different situations on the court and personal problems offit," Sluby says. "The team is a real dose knit bur.ch,We look real good, but we need to communicate better on the court." 

Before Sluby's career is ove~, his name may be communicated to quite a . few Irish opponents. 
• • • Rucker 
(contin11cdfrom page 8) 
pounds heavier than Rucker. But since that day in the fall of 1977, Orlando Woolridge has added 20 pounds in the right places, and is certainly a visible force underneath. 
Practice~ were quite grueling for Rucker at first, like for the other freshmen who simply weren't accus· tomed to the rigors ofa Digger Phelps training camp. "For the first month, practice was physically and mentally exhausting," says Rucker. "I'd just s;ome home and go to sleep. We just had so much material thrown at us all at once; like a post defense -I'd never played that before in my life. But that's improved every day. Now I know what I should know. All the aspects of my game have improved." 
Rucker was recruited by nearly 250 schools around the country-"some I'd never heard of," he says-that liked·his style of play, especially his superb shooting .touch for a man his size. Marquette, Maryland, Virginia, Louisville, St. John's and others came calling, but Rucker made the decision to come to Notre Dame. ''I'm here for a degree in Finance," he says with emphasis. "I like business, and Notre Dame has an excellent business school.'' 
Yet Rucker admits that the thing that delayed his decision until the end of the school year was• his "fear" of Notre Dame. "I w.as scared of the whole concept of Notre Dame. I was scared to ger into it because I was.n't too sure how I'd do academically. But everything's working out beautifully now," 
When Rucker arrived in South Bend with his classmates in August, he knew that there would be a few surprises in store for him, yet many aspects of student life have been just the wav he expected thef)"l to be. ·• I pretty m·u ch expected the tough· academic re­quirements, the generally conserva­tive attitudes, the wild atmosphere on football weekends... " 

. Just wait till he ~ets his first taste of 
the ACC when looiana or UCLA are in 
town, as the fans literally "Shake 
Down the Thunder." 
And like your typical freshman, there were some things that surprised him about Notre Dame. The first one came to mind quickly-"The food," He cried, "it's the worst: !..thought this was the Land of Milk and Honey until I went into that din1ng hall." 
Saga excluded, maybe in time, Cecil Rucker will find his new home pleasing to his tastes, both on the coyrt and on the campus. After all, Mackin High School has a reputation to keep up. 

.. -· 

... 
The Irish Extra Tuesday, November 25, 1980-page 10 
In the frontcourt 
Irish implement changing of the guards 



By T. J Prister Sports Writer 
Guarded optimism is the best way to describe the attitude toward the backcourt situation of the 1980-81 Fighting Irish basketball squad. 
Veterans Tracy Jackson andJohn Paxson have been named the starting guards for the November 30 opener against UCLA, with Stan Wilcox, Mike Mitchell and Barry Spencer listed as reserves. Unfortunately, graduation and injuries have taken their toll on the backcourt depth of the Irish. 
"The loss ofBilly (Hanzlik) and Rich (Branning) and the reccurring knee problems of Mitchell have left us pretty thin at guard," notes newly appointed assistant coach Pete Gillen. "But thisgivesPaxson the opportunity to play more which will be a big plus for us. In my opinion, John will be one of the premier point guards in the nation." . 
Gillen cited Paxson's ballhandling, passing and unselfishness as being the highlights ofhis effectiveness. Paxson, whose brotherJim is a member of the Portland Trail Blazers, is also described by coach Gillen as the "coach on the floor." 
"Not to take anything away from the other players, butJohn is probably the most intelligent and knowledgeable player on the squad. Because of this, Digger is quite confident in relaying orders to the rest of the players through John." 
Almost assuredly, Paxson will improve upon his 4.6 scoring average ofa year ago, as well as upon his playing time. 
"John is often times so unselfish that 
we have to encourage him to shoot 
more," says Gillen. "There's no doubt 
in our minds that John will become a 
steady scorer for us." 

Manning the "second guard" spot will be senior tri-captain Tracy Jackson. Used mostly as a forward during the three previous seasons, Jackson brings his 15.1 scoring clip to the backcourt. In addition, Jackson topped the Irish in overal offensive categories including total points. Jackson was also first in minutes played and ranked second in assists to Branning. 
"We plan to use Tracy mainly at guard but depending on the situation, 
Mike Mitchell 
he might be moved back to forward 
periodically," says Gillen. 
"Tracy is a great shooter, but I think what makes him such an outstanding player is his anticipation. He has the. unca1 ny ability to always be around the ball. Consequently, his instincts allow him to pick up a lot of garbage points." 
Proof ofJackson's quick hands and expectancy ofthe basketball was his 51 steals which nearly doubled the total of any other teammate. 
Moving Jackson to guard will be beneficial to the backcourt plight, but Jackson's team-leading mark of 7.1 rebounds a game could possibly suffer from the move. However, the shifting ofJackson will allow Orlando Woolridge to move back to his natural forward position after an experimental year at center. 
Waiting in reserve will be senior playmaker Stan Wilcox. Capable of playing both point and second guard, Wilcox's value may be particularly apparent in games against some of Notre Dame's tougher opponents. 
"Stan's quickness will become necessary in games against teams like UCLA and Kentucky. Both teams possess extreme quickness especially at guard and we'll need Stan in such situations. 
"He's not a flashy ballplayer but he's steady. He'll provide depth and his hard work and unselfishness will earn him considerable playing time." 
Stan Wilcox 

A second knee operation has slowed down the progress of junior Mike Mitchell. Gillen considers Mitchell one of the better passers on the team and calls him "an extremely creative guard." 
"Mike penetrates the middle of the lane well and causes some very positive things to happen. Unfortunately, it will be at least two weeks before he'll be ready to begin practicing." 
Mitchell ranked third last year among the reserves in assists despite his limited play. 
Rounding out the backcourt reserves is freshman Barry Spencer. Listed at 6-6~, Spencer has had to make the transition from forward to guard. 
"Barry mainly played forward in high school but had some experience at guard. He expressed his interest in playing in the backcourt and we are quite pleased with his progress," says Gillen. 
"Spencer is a good one-on-one player and his height gives him the advantage of looking over the opposition's zone.'1 
Peering over zones will be important to Spencer especially since opponents seldom attempt to match up man-to­man against the Irish. 
As usual, the Irish have a corps of walk-on guards who consistently contribute to the preparation for the upcoming opponent. Kevin Hawkins and Marc Kelly return after seeing action in 12 and 11 games, respectively, last year. 
THE MUSIC BOX 120 W. Mishawaka Ave. Mish., IN (256-5440) 
For Your Thanksgiving Holiday Entertainment Music For Whatever Your 
Mood  
Europe -Dillards ­ Rock and Roll ...... Wed. Nov. 26 Blue Grass ­$600 Fri., Nov. 28  $JOO  

Luther Allison -Blues Band -$400 
Sat., Nov. 29 (Advance tickets on sale at Just For .IWt Record or Boog~ Records for $350) 
Don't Miss This New Entertainment Experience 
Open 8:00p.m. Wed.-Sat. 
The Student Union---------­SUGAR BOWL TRIP 
5 days/4 nights hotel accommodations (4 people per room), round trip transportation from South Bend/Chicago, game ticket, New Year's Eve Party, and daily activities 
...all for $199oo Reservations will be taken at the S.U. Ticket Office beginning 

8 a.m. Tuesday, Nov. 25. $25 non-refundable deposit is required. Only 300 complete packages available. Additional transportation and hotel accommod­
ations also will be available. 
~~~~~~~~~..0...04..~..HH..~...O--~~~~-.o 


JEEPS, CARS, TRUCKS ' Available through government agencies. Many sell for under $200 . 
Call (602) 941-8014, Ext. 3648 for your directory on how to purchase. 

'• T" 
•' 

The Idsh Extra Tuesday, November 25, 1980 -page 11 





Mary D's Irish make giant leap 
By Kelly Sullivan Women's Sports Editor 

Mary DiStanislao faces a monumental task in her first season as the Notre Dame women's basketball coach. Despite the fact that she has five returnees from last year's 20-10 squad that captured the Division III state championship-five returnees, who, along with their new coach, her two new assistants, and seven new freshmen, must tread the untested waters of Division I competition. 
"We're a question mark as a unit," DiStanislao says. "It's a new experience in my working with them, and in their working in Division I." 
DiStanislao comes to Notre Dame after building Northwestern University's basketball program into a national contender. In her five-year stint with the Wildcats she compiled an impressive 89-27 ledger, including a pair of Big Ten crowns and two regional titles. She hopes to duplicate those kind of accomplishments at Notre Dame, but realizes that success will not come overnight. 
"I would say that the single most overriding characteristic ofthis team is that it has a lot to learn. And how well the players pick up what we are trying to teach them will be the determining factor as to how well we'll do this season." 
"This is a great institution," DiStanislao continues. "It will take us time to learn, butwe'll be heard from." 
Heading the list of experienced players who are expected to make some noise this season is three-time letter winner and floor general Maggie 
Lally. The senior captain, who gained second-team Academic All-America honors last year, enters the 1980-81 campaign as Notre Dame's fifth-leading all-time scorer. A 5-1 native ofSharon, Penn., Lally averaged 
6.2 points per game last year, and finished second in both assists and steals. · 
Another senior hoping for a backcourt job is 5-8 Sheila Liebscher, who put on a strong performance at the end of the 79-80 season, averaging better than six points per game in tournament play. Liebscher hails from Davenport, Iowa, and will add versatility to the Irish game plan. 
The first two women ever to receive athletic scholarships at Notre Dame figure to play an integral part in the success of the Division I rookies, and will provide support in the backcourt. 
Jenny Klauke, a 5-9Yi native of Glenview, Ill., averaged 18 points, 10 rebounds, and three assists per contest at Marillac High School. The All-Illinois performer led her squad to the state quarterfinals her senior 
season. 
"Jenny will be very important to us," notes her coach. "She's quick, strong, and has the ability to score." 
Guard Mary Joan Forbes boasts considerable prep credentials herself. 
As North Carolina's Class4-A Player of the Year in 1979-80, Forbe~ posted an 
11.1 scoring mean, while averaging three assists per game. 
Two walk-ons, freshmen Theresa Mullins and Molly Ryan, have become quite a tandem in the backcourt as well. Mullins, who stands 5-6, posted a 
13.6 scoring average her senior year, boasting a 72 percent free throw percentage. Ryan, also 5-6, earned All­City honors three straight years at Sacred Heart Academy in Springfield, Ill. She pumped in 20 points per contest. "The two work very hard and very well together," notesDiStanislao. 
Other candidates vying for a slot at guard include 5-6 sophomore Debbie Hensley, an All-Metro selection from Oklahoma City, and 5-8 freshman Kara O'Malley, who will also see action at forward. 
Up front, the Irish are bolstered by the return of four veterans, three of them monogram winners. 
Sophomore Shari Matvey leads the list after a record-setting freshman campaign. The 6-1 Matvey, who hails from Youngstown, Ohio, led her teammates in scoring (17.6), field goal percentage (.582), rebounding (10.3), and blocked shots (94). She is Notre Dame's second-leading all-time Career scorer after just one season.. 
Assisting Matvey along the front line will be junior Tricia McManus. The 5­11 forward from Oak Ridge, Tenn., finished the '79-80 season third in both scoring and rebounding. 

"Supersub" Missy Conboy, the 5-8 junior designated the most improved player last year, and sophomore Jan Crowe complete the list of frontcourt returnees. 
"Depth will be a strength for us in the front line," emphasizes the Irish mentor. "We have a number ofplayers with relatively equal abilitr,. Shari's a very talented girl, and she 1J be an integral part of this team. Tricia has very good defensive instincts. Missy is a real spark plug-she works hard and is aggressive. And Jim could have a great year, she's playing very well." 
Two gooa-stze freshmen, 5-10 Theresa Smith and 5-11 Laura Curtiss should make valuable contributions to the squad if their stand-out ca-reers in high school were any indication. 
Because the Irish lack the height enjoyed by most of their Division I opponents, DiStanislao plans to get her team into a running game whenever possible, and stresses the importance of full-court pressure. 
"I think to be a good basketball team, you have to play defense ... that wins basketball games." 
Notre Dame's ambitious schedule pits the women against such teams as South Carolina, which features NBA star Magic Johnson's, younger sister Evelyn, and the University ofVirginia, a perennial Atlantic Coast Conference power. Yet the won-loss column is not DiStanislao's main consideration in terms of evaluating her squad's. 

The Irish Extra Tuesday, November 25, 1980 -page 12 
No easy chore for Mary D 
By Craig Chval Sports Writer 

Whatever successes Mary DiStani­slao enjoys on the court during this, her first season as Notre Dame wo­men's basketball coach, most likely will be overshadowed by what she does off th~ court. 
DiStanislao faces the obvious chal­
lenge of engineering Notre Dame's 
-;ingle-season leap from Division III to 
Division I status. But bigger still looms 
the task of blending a squad consisting 
of six veterans of last winter's 20-10 
squad and eight new faces, seven of 
them freshmen. 

To be sure, when Notre Dame ad­
ministrators finally decided that they 
cnuld fight the impending doom of 
Title IX no longer and reluctantly 
granted Division I status to women's 
basketball, there were more questions 
than turnovers. 

. Perhaps foremost on the minds of 
the players who had just-helped Notre 
Dame to the most successful season of 
its three-year history was the issue of 
scholarship money. And then the 
players had to wonder if they would be 
rendered 'expendable by an onslaught 
of the nation's best high school talent, 
all attending Notre Dame gratis. 
"Our initial reaction was that we 
were a little hesitant," remembers 
Sheila Liebscher, a senior guard on this 
1·ear's team. "We were scared because 
we had never played that caliber ofball 
before. In the past, we had just gone ·out, relaxed and enjoyed ourselves. 
"It wasn't that hardcore." 

Junior forward Missy Conboy had a 
lot ofquestions that nobody seemed to 
have answers for last spring. 

Dallessio, Belles 
eye season, state tourney 
By Margaret Greene Sports Writer 

Following an impressive opener against Kalamazoo Valley on Friday, St. Mary's basketball team begins the long road into season play. The Belles embark on an optimistic season after defeating Kalamazoo, 87-5 3. Looking down the stretch, the team's main goal is the state ·tournament. 
"I think we have a really good chance this year," claims sophomore Anne Armstrong, who led the squad in scoring last season. "We are a young team, but much stronger than last vear. Our substitute list is one of the best bench squads in the area." 
According to coach Jerry Dallessio, the team is definitely better than the squad last season that slated a .500 mark. 
"We have much more depth on this squad," says Dallessio, who also doubles as Athletic Director. "The girls returning from last season have made great iprovements and the new­comers are ready to play. Thirteen of the 15 squad members are freshmen and sophomores, so we are still very young. 
Commenting on outstanding play­ers, Dallessio cited captain Maureen O'Brien, Armstrong, Maureen King (the leading rebounder in 1979-80) and sophomore newcomer Kim Works. 
The opposition holds tight reigns on the Belle squad. The team will face such challenging schools as Franklin, Butler, Notre Dame, and St. Joseph's. The true test, however, will come late in the season as St. Mary's will travel to tournament action at the University of Wisconsin-Green Bay ~nd Hanover. 
Look for the Belles to make their move early in the season and establish themselves as worthy competitors be­fore taking to the state tournament court. 
I. 
/j 

"We wondered how fast they would expand the program, how much schol­arship money there would be, and how it would be dispensed," she says. "And we wanted to know if people who had been on the team in the pastwould still have the opportunity to play." 
Conboy also admits to having qualms about how Notre Dame's new scholarship players would blend in· with the other players. 
"When I urst.thought about, I was a little concerned; because we didn't really find anything out until the summer. But I'm glad that the two scholarship people (freshmenJenny Klauke and MaryJoan Forbes) are very good-if they had brought in people who were close in ability to the other players, it might have created some problems." 
Liebscher voices the same original apprehensions. 
''We thought there might be some problems because we thought all the new players would be on scholarship," she says. "But the way it is now, with eight new players and only two ofthem on scholarship, I don't think there is any division at all." 
Indeed, DiStanislao seems to be get­ting high marks for the job she has done blending the old and the new. But Klauke and Forbes are receiving a lion's share of the credit for the smooth transition. 
"Because we didn't have any idea what they would be like, I guess we were a little apprehensive," says Liebscher. "But the recruits are fan­tastic. They've been a big addition to their team with their personality as well as their talent." 

SMC senior 

0 'Brien leads Belle squad 
By David Wilson ·Sports Writer 
She's done it again. Maureen O'Brien ("Blond Mo" of St. Mary's tennis fame) has returned to the Belle sports scene, and this time she's cap­tain of the varsity basketball squad. The attractive 21-year-old senior from 

PROBABLE SMC STARTERS  
Pos.  Player  Year  
G  Tracee Hagreaves  So.  
G  Anne Armstrong  So.  
c  Mary Pat Sitlington  So.  
F  Kim Works  So.  
F  Maureen King  So.  



Weekend foes 
Larry Brown (left), Rod Foster, and the UCLA Bruins host the Irish in Notre Dame's season-opener Saturday night in Los Angeles. 
• 
Hometown 

Nile, Mich. Sylvania, Ohio Frankford, Ill. Niles, Mich. Pittsburgh, Pa. 

Indianapolis will lead a young team of confident and dedicated girls. 
"(was shocked by our incredible performance Friday night," she said enthusiastically of her team's Iaugher at Kalamazoo last Friday night. "We looked really sharp, and I think we proved to a lot of people what a good team we actuallx have." 
O'Brien feels that St. Mary's will be a state tournament contender in the spring. "I think we're a definite threat for the state title," she said. "This is a serious, dedicated group ofgirls we're dealing with here." 
O'Brien is the only senior on the squad and has played basketball since her years at Chatard High School, where she was the team captain for four years. This is her first year as captain of the Belles, and she really is looking forward to it. 
"We're looking at a great year," she excl_aimed. "Last year we dropped fiye or stx games by less than four points, but that was because we lacked ex­perience in pressure situations. I know this year's squad has the potential togo all the way."· 
Besides her basketball (and tennis}, there's a lot more to Mo O'Brien. She currently serves as the vice president of the senior class. She's one of 13 children, majors in government and plans to be married next June. How does she find time for sports and everything else as well? 
"Time management is no problem now, because I've got my daily routine pretty well set down. SometimesI have to cram, but believe me, I'm used to the pressure. It was rough my fresh­man year, but that's only natural with the adjustment to college and all." 
As for her future, O'Brien plans to settle down in Chicago after gradua­tion, where she hopes to find a job in the personnel field, and her future in athletics will be purely on a recrea­tional basis. 
"It takes a special type of person to go into professional athletics," she said. "You have to have more dedica­tion than I want to give for that sort of thing." 
"My participation on the athletic teams here at St. Mary's has been invaluable. You can't replace the ex­perience or knowledge you gain from working with a good, close, athletic team." 





Features 
Tuesday, November 25, 1980 -page 13 
LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD 
Grieving to Jesus 
Rev. Robert Griffin 


My grandmother was a deeply religtous woman. It always worrted her that my grandfather had sailed as a seaman to ports-of-call in nations that did not know Jesus as the Lord. He would tell her of heathen idols and pagan temples he had seen in Thailand orJapan; and it bothered her when he praised them as beautiful. 
"Nothing could be beautiful if it's ~rieving to Jesus," she would, say. 
'The Lord takes no pleasure to altars where young girls are but­chered in worship to false gods." Her notions of pagan devotions were really quite imaginative. Sometimes, to tease her, grandfather would show her postcards with pictures of the Buddha or a Shinto shrine; and she would bring them to the Metho­dist ladies in the Epworth League as an inducement for them to buy Bibles to send to missionaries. Grandfather asked her one day what use Bible could be to peasants who never learned to read. 
"That's what missionaries are trained for," she said, "to teach pagans an understanding of the Word of God." 
"How will Bibles help them," he asked, "if they're starvmg." ''The Lord will feed them with His truth and His light," she answered. 
''Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and all things wzll be added unto you.'' 
"I don't believe it," he said. "I don't believe a damn word of it." 
"Why George Griffin," she said, "How can you turn your back on the Lord's promises like that?'' 
"He doesn't keep promises," he said, "beduse He didn't make any promises to begin with.'' 
''He certainly did make pro­mises," she satd. "I rely on his promises every day of my life." 
"Don't lean on them too heavy," he said, "or you'll find yourself grabbing at dead air.'' 

Answers to 
There will be no trivia quiz this 
week because of the Thanksgiving 
break. I have decided, however, to 
announce the winner and divulge the 
answers to last week's quiz while it is 
still somewhat fresh on people's 
minds. 
John Fonash of Cavanaugh Hall is this week's winner. He was the only person to answer all ten questions correctly. For his efforts, The Observer will be sending ten dollars his way shortly. 
Here arc tre answers to last week's 
quiz on Brw.:c.: Springsteen: 
(1) Bruce's first -ingle release was "Blinded bv the ;•1,t'' b/w "The 
An~c:l." 
(2) 
Piece, '~esh' .as recorded in Passaic, I-. w Je'-" 

(3) 
The first Spnnt.~wen song to appear on the charts was "Sandy" (Bruce called it "4th ofJuly, Asbury 


Park") by the Hollies, in the spring of 1975. 
(4) 
The song released to D)s but to nobody else was "Santa Claus Is Coming to Town." 

(5) 
The group Springsteen opened for that night was Chicago. 

(6) 
Robert Gordon originally re­corded "Fire." 

(7) 
Jon Landau wrote, "I have seen the (uture of rock and roll and its name is Bruce Springsteen." 

(8) 
The45 actually released but not on any album was "Held Up Without a Gun" (the B side of "Hungry 


"George," she said, "you used to lean on His promises yourself.'' "Not guilty," he said. "I never did." "Of course you did," she said, or you wouldn't be saved." "Saved?", he said. "Me, saved? By who? From what?" 
"The night you took]esus as your Saviour," she said brightly. "You were saved, and I was there praying right along with you. You took Jesus Christ to be your personal Lord and Saviour." 
"I don't remember," he said. "When did it happen?" 
"You were just a boy," she said, "not more than fifteen or sixteen. There was a tent revival, if you remember, and Mr. Wentworth's preaching saved you. We were all so hapfY.• though we didn't know you wei. 
"It wasn't me that was sav~d," my grandfather said. "I never believed in being saved. It was my brother Henry who got converted by the Reverend Wentworth, though he afterwards backslid." 
This was the first time my grandmother knew that her husband wasn't saved. She was always sure she had seen him converted. She was constantly trying to persuade him to read the Bible with her, because it would heir, him to ''see things more Christly, ' but he never would. But despite his constant irreverence and his gibes at theo­logy, she had always believed he was "safe in Jesus," because as a very young man, he had acknow­ledged the Lord as His Saviour; and having once been saved, he could never lose salvation. Now, to her horror, she learned that her dearest husband, the father of her children, had never confessed Christ before men. Therefore it would be impos­sible for Jesus Christ ever to confess her husband before the father Who is in heaven. 

'Boss' Quiz 
Heart"). 
(9) 
The other label Bruce has recorded for is Asylum (two songs which appear on the No Nukes al­bum). 

(10) 
The date of the Time and Newsweek covers was October 27, 1975 


Tim Neely 

Readers who have seen many movies this year are asked to send picks for this year's best and worst movies to Ryan Ver Berkmoes at The Observer. Write down your pick as the year's greatest and your choice as the year's dog along with your reasons. Those with the most interesting entries will realize the special thrill of seeing them in print. Additionally, one entrant will be chosen to receive two free movie passes. Entries can be sent to The Observer, ordropped offatour office on the fourth floor of LaFortune. Dead­line for submissions is Tuesday, December 2. 
She might never nave married him, if she had known he wasn't saved. That wasn't because she didn~t love him, because she did love him, even more than herself. But it would be very hard on children, she thought, knowing that they had an unredeemed father. When grand­father first came calling on her as a girl, she had wondered if all things were peaceful with his soul. Then she had remembered the week of Mr. Wentworth's preaching a revi­val; she was sure she had seen Geor~e Griffin being welcomed with the nght hand of fellowship after he had confessed Jesus. She had asked her mother, and her mother said it was true: George Griffin had been born again as a Christian two years before. They had both been mis­taken. It was Henry Griffin, not George, who had stood on sawdust in that revival tent singing, "Oh, happy day, oh, happy day/ When 
Jesus took my sins away." 

Grandmother had her work cut out for her. She wouldn't stand for her husband's going to hell. Being saved was something he had to do for his soul's sake, for his family's sake, for his angel mother's sake, for her sake. She asked him to come to Tuesday prayer meeting, and stand up and read a verse of Scripture. That small act of faith, she said, 
.would be all the acknowledgement that the Lord would require, and Jesus could claim him as His redeemed lamb on the last day. Grandfather sid he didn't want to be claimed as a lamb. "If there's a heaven," he said, "I wouldn't trust Methodists to find it. If there's a heaven, and you're there, my wife, God Himself couldn't keep me away from you, and if He's a gentleman, He wouldn't want to." Grandmother didn't argue that you can't take heaven by force, because she was afraid his heart would be hardened, if he continued denying grace. But grandmother had a plan. 
On Thanksgiving Day that year, 
Grandmother cooked a thirty pound 
turkey, and she invited fifteen 
guests for dinner, including the 
Methodist minister and his wife. 
When they all sat down to dinner, 
there were twenty three people at 
the table, including my father, who 
was still a boy. As my father told the 
story, my grandmother invited the 
mintster to ask the blessing. Then, 
as all of them were tucking napkins 
under their chins, grandmother 
made a little speech. 
''A wife can t be truly thankful·,'' 
she said, "as long as her husband's ,not right with the Lord. A house can't expect God to bless it, if the head of the house is a sinner. Child~en can't have a happy holiday, knowtng they could lose their father to a place of suffering and dark­
ness.' 
Grandfather looked at her repro­
achfully. He said: "Georgianna, 
wherever you'll be, I'll be there too. 
I wouldn't let you go to no place of 
suffering and darkness.'' 
"Then," she said, "'Accept Jesus. Before we taste these vittles, accept Him as your perso_nal Sav­iour, and we'll be your witnesses. Confess Him as Lord before men, so that we can get on with this Thanksgiving Day meat. 
In the midst of that Thanksgiving Day company, while his family and friends prayed along, my grand­father submitted his life to the Lamb; and his sins, though they were scarlet, became whtte like :snow-bleached wool. As he always said :afterwards--when my grand­mother wasn't listening--"! wasn't going to do it. It was the smell of the turkey that made me wash in the Blo()d of the Lamb." , 
Happy Thanksgiving. I hope to see you at the movies at Darby's Place on Thanksgiving Day. 

PHOTOGRAPHY CONTEST 
(sponsored by Observer Features/Photography Depts.) 
I 

PRIZES: 

First prize -$25 Second-$15 Third-$10 Honorable Mention-$5 
RULES: 
/ 

1) Contest is open to all ND/SMC students except paid campus publication photographers. 
2) ·Pictures must b,e in black and white, 5"X7" to S"XlO". Negatives should be available if photo is selected for publication. Winning photos will be published in a special Observer midpoint Dec. 9 
3) Opeh theme. Photos will be judged for their originality, aesthetic appeal and technical quality by the Features and Photography De~ts. 
Submit entries by Dec. 2 to The Observer, c/o Features. Please write your name, address and 'phone number on the hack of each photo. 
4) Enclose a self-addressed envelope. 1:•. ~:?;e enough to return phot'os;with your entry. All decisions are final. 

The Observer_ _ ___ =--=----=======, 
T0 da~=============T=u=e=sd=a=y=,=N=o=v=em==b=er==25='=1=9=8=0;-=p=ag=e=14 
Campus 

• 4: 15 p.m. -biology dept. seminar, "the biogeo­graphy of a flowering plant family, the onagraceae," dr. peter ravin, missouri botan­ical garden, st. louis, b278 galvin. 
• 
8 r· m. -lecture, jean miche cousteau, mem. library aud., sponsor: suac. 

• 
8 p.m. -ambrosiana lecture series, "liturgy & codiculogy," prof. niels krogh rasmusen, o. p., sem­inar room, medieval inst., 715 memorial library. 



Doonesbury 

Garry Trudeau 




Molarity Michael Molinelli 







Peanuts® 
0 0 
0 
0 
0 


Charles M~ Schulz 
I WONDER IF I 0 HAVE TIME TO BUILD o A SNOWMAN... 
(J 

0 -----0 ~·~ 0 
aoo o ~ 0~~~ 
o, n Oo l~ © 1980 United Feature Syndtcate, Inc. ~ 

miCHIANA'S LARGEST DEALER




Jungle Laws'' 
IN READYmADE & CUSTOm­mADE PICTURE FRAmES 
~~~~~~---~~~~~~ 
....

TUESDAY, 

lO% STUDENT & FACULTY
NOVEMBER 25 8:OOpm 
DISCOUNT W/ CURRENT ID library auditorium 
.._J 
One-Hoff Mile North of t~orth VIllage Moll


f\\~~ 

Monthly, TueMioy, Wetlnescloy, Saturtl•y 9 to 6
sponsoredt by the 
ThurMay enti·Frltlay 9 to 9 


S·U· ACADEMIC COMMJSSION 
The Daily Crossword 

11125180 

ACROSS 
1 "-Well 
That..." 
5 Organic 
compound 10 Desk item 14 Track 
character 15 Ruth's 
in-law 16 Isolated 17 Parts of 
speech 20 Repeats 21 In progress 22 Hwys. 23 Medieval 
fur 25 Contends 28 Spinnaker 
or jib 
29 NYwager­ing org. 32 Iodine 
source 33 Stirup 34 Contend 35 Jury's 
concern 39 Singular 40 Wind 
indicators 41 Guilty, for one 42 American 
humoris.t 43 At any time 44 Eastern 
princes 46 Indian 47 Roseess· 
ence: var. 

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

48 Tire 
pattern 51 Admission 55 6 and 718 58 Open 59 Outlander 60 Capriole 61 -Alto 62 Twit 63 Irritable 
DOWN 1 Husband of 
Gudrun 2 Plunder 3 Swiss sled 4 They help 
Mounties mount 5 Maternal kin 6 Store events 7 Mix the greens 8 Ostrich's kin 9 Eve's origin 10 Musical 
symbols 11 Frenzied 12 "-each 
life.•." 13 Gadfly 18 Delicacy 19 Behind bars 23 Frenchmen 24 Rebel 
25 Rubber center 

26 Having a thin, sharp tone 
27 Clearing 28 Off booze 29 Immature 
egg 30 Rome's river 
31 Greek letters 33 Royal 

Indian 36 Exhaust 37 Hub 38 Feasible 44 Bring into 
harmony 
45 Madam: dial. 46 Sadat's city 

47 Henry VIII's 2nd and 4th 
48 Links hazard 49 Eastern prince 50 Catchall 
·abbr. 51 Lamb 52 Exigency 53 Promontory 54 Spot 56 Cole 57 Mum'skin 
by The Obsm•t•r and The Assuaaft•d Pro.r 
Sugar Bowl ticket allocation for Notre 
Dame ana St. Mary's stu'dents for theJanuary 1 game between the Irish and Georgia will begin Tuesday, December 2. Approximately three thousand (3,000) tickets will be al­lotted to students. 
Students desiring to attend the game should report to the second floor ticket windows of the ACC on the following days: seniors, Tuesday, December 2; juniors and gradu­ate/law students, Wednesday, December 3; sophomores, Thursday, December 4; and freshmen, Friday, December 5. 
The ticket window will be open from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
When reporting to the window you will complete an application with your name, identification number and class year. The cost of the ticket is $17.00 and checks should be made payable to theNotre Dame Sugar Bowl. A student may present a maximum of two (2) identification cards and applications. The tickets will be sold on a seniority basis as stated above or until the supply is exhausted. 
Since the tickets allocated to the student body are intended for their personal use, students will receive the actual ticket upon presentation of the ID card upon arrival in New Orleans. The times and places where tickets can be picked up will be published in The Observer prior to Christmas break. 
The North American Soccer League 
said yesterday the Washington Diplomats, Houston Hur­ricane and Rochester Lancers franchises have folded. The league office reported that the three teams had "voluntarily terminated their franchises." However, the league said representatives ofall three teams requested the opportunity to reacquire a franchise in a presentation to the NASL's Executive Committee at its meeting in Chicago Sunday night and the full Board of Directors yesterday. NASL officials set Dec. 1 0 as the date for the dispersal ofplayers not assigned to other clubs in the intervening period. -AP 
,The St Marv'Sski team will meet in the lobby 
of LeMans Ha~ one wee'fc from today at 5 p.m. Yearbook 
pictures will be taken at that time and proof of insurance 
forms will be collected. Questions or problems; call Nancy 
Sheft at 5124 or stop by 318 LeMans. ~ 
Anv Notre Dame or St. Mary's students 
intereste'd in working as timers at Notre Dame varsity swimming meets this season, are invited to a brief or­ganizational meeting this afternoon in the second floor foyer of the Rockne Memorial at 3:30 p.m. Any questions; call Thorn Krutsch at 8311. 
Classifieds 
\ 

~j1()1"tSc1)==~=1=·=e~S========*=================T=u=e=sd=ay=,=N=o=v=em=b=e=r=2=5,=1=9=80=-==P=~=e=1~5 
• • • UCLA 

(continued from page 16) 
center, 6-9 Orlando Woolridge and 6-7 Kelly Tripucka at the forwards, and 6-5 Tracy Jackson and 6-2 John Paxson in the backcourt 
So, ifl were Brown, my game plan would be run, run, run on offense and press, press, press on defense, hoping that the Irish commit enough turnovers to allow Foster and Holton to use their speed Considering the height disadvantage the Bruins will face inside, that may be their only hope of getting the balL 
Likewise, ifl were Digger, my game plan would 
be ball-control offense and multiple defenses to force the Bruins to shoot long and shoot often. Oh, and I'd also include a prayer that they miss enough to make my inside strength pay off. 
Either way it should be another great basketball game in a series ofgreat basketball games between two schools that have a more-than-legitimate chance of winning the national championship in Philadelphia next March. And both teams know what it will take to get there. UCLA hopes to outrun everyone on the road to Philly. 
The Irish are just gonna try to push everybodv out of their way. · 
The Bottom Ten 
Emerging from the depths 
By Skip Desjardin and Rob Simari 
As another season nears its dose, the nation's worst college football teams are making moves that they hope will propel them to the top of the Bottom Ten. 
Never ones to follow a trend, Northwestern made two moves that will definitely hurt its team's chances. Coach Rick Venturi and Athletic Director 
John Pont were fired by the Northwestern admin­istration. Voters apparently took that into con­sideration this week, as the Mildcats dropped from the number-one spot. It is hard to figure how the school will justify dumping a coach with a 1-31-1 record. 
Perhaps hoping to pick up some ofthe Wildcats' votes, a Boston university changed its name to Northeastern. The Huskies (2-9) debut in this week's poll at number-nine. 
Oregon State, which replaced Northwestern at number-one, will also make a big move this week. They are going after the international vote as they take on UCLA in Tokyo. Will the Beavers line up in the "shogun formation"? 
Texas-El Paso rna y have devised the most clever means of climbing to the top. It added an extra game to this year's schedule. Alas, a disappointing mid-season win cost the Miners an NCAA record 
~for most losses in a season. 
·Michigan State coach Muddy Waters had a brainstorm. He replaced the metal "sling-shot" goal posts in Spartan Stadium with vintage, wooden "H" types. Muddy claimed that the move would make it easier for fans to break the goal posts up into souvenirs of the Spartans' final home game of the year. Aftera41-0 loss to Iowa, many ofthe fans were looking for a piece of Muddy as a souvenir. 
Here are this week's rankings: 
1l Oregon State (0-10) 
2 Northwestern (2-11) 
3 UTEP (1-11) 
4 Colorado (1-10) 
5 Penn (1-9) 
5a) Columbia (1-9) 
7~ Texas Christian (1-10) 
8 Duke (2-9) 
9 Northeastern (2-9) 
10) Michigan State (3-8) Also receiving votes: Vanderbilt (2-8), Oklahoma State (3-6-1), 
Southern California (7-2-1). 
From the "World Series Heroes: Where Are They Now?" Department comes the report that Tug McGraw recently completed a stint performing with the Philadelphia Pops Orchestra. Ifthat's not bad enough, George Brett is in Los Angeles filming a movie. Brett plays a Finnish hockey player in "Miracle on Ice" about the 1980 U.S. Olympic hockey team. No report has been received on the whereabouts of Bert Campaneris. 
Quote of the Week: 
Stanford head coach Paul Wiggin on his sense of job security: "The only difference between us coaches and migrant farm workers is, we buy houses." 
··----·-------···-·-·--·------··----------------------------. 
AI• <,,~.,,,,,.,~:HI~" w:ll "'·' r•.!ren.t1 hv 4 45 p "' r...vo LfJ\·S pnn• ·o the 
•SSttt_• ·P ""na·h th• .~.J 1S run The Observe' off•ce o'llill ~~Ct!PI ..:.•JSSI'teds 1\ftrHlOO\ thrr>.HJI1 Fllflet~ t i 00 J ..,... ·o 4 45 p m •\II l·lass•f•ed!lt 'ThiSt be 
====================================================~­
Graduate Students • 4 bedroom FOR SALE: Technics SL-220 aeml­Heidi, Welcome to beautllul South Long Island Club buslar Christmas Miu C. O'Brien, What do 30 drowtnga. hOme, completely furnished outomollc turntable with Ortolan Bend. lfs not much, but, gee, we break leaves Friday, Dec. 19. Signup: research pope11 and highway rest Including washer/ dryer. $70 a UMS 20 MKII cartridge. $100. High call II hamel Love vat LaFortune Lillie Theater, Tuesday, slops hove In common? Ask Sandy 
month per student. Good place to quality. J.B. ot8181 ------Nov. 25, 9:30-11:00 p.m. II you can catch her between 
Q: How dld.Korl Marx achieve lome slruclures and hot chocolate.

aludy and sale neighborhood.
NO/SMC PHOTOGRAPHERS: I need In the Yukon? Lillie Cheryl, Somehow we're both 
camera lime · do you need a Available now or Jon 1. 288-3109. 
A: By Inciting the mooses to revoiH gonno make II through this Down, Hope your 20th Is your best 
model? Call 7~. L._TIC_K_ET_S_... ---' semester. The col... year yet. Happy doyl Koren
4 bdrm house4 renl.$100-$200 mo 
A IIIII& socialist humor there, folks. OVERSEAS JOBS • Summer/year to the right porly.233-1329 fOR SALE MTL, You will always be Modellnelo "EXENE" Hoppy(early) birthday loa round. Europe, 5. Amer., Australia, THREE PADDED, STUDENT SEASON v;,Y IIIII& socialist humor. me. Love, Bart girl who likes contributing to the
---~-·-­

Asia. Allllelda. $500-$1200 monthly. 
BASKETBALL SEATS, TOGETHER. BEST Buy "MolariTy: On the Rood to delinquency ol minors. How many
"BILLY NEEDHAM" I OWE YOU BREAK­Sightseeing. Free Info. Write: IJC, Selling Ouf' at the Bookstore Now. 
OFFER. 277-7675. shots do you need to get WASTED?
~ANTED j 
--------·---FAST OR FRENCH FRIES OR SOME·
Box 52·1N4, Corona Del Mar, Co. 
Take that monv and one more lor 92625. Hey Olrtballs, THINGI LOVE, ELLEN'S COUSIN

Student Basketball season ticket. 
Hove a great break and don't eat me on your birthday · lfs just what Best offer. 287-2057.
UGLY DUCKLING RENT·A·CAII Two roommates wonted lor spring too much turkey! HAPPY 21ST, EllEN CLYNEI lEGAliTY the doctor ordered! Hove FUNIII 
THANKSGIVING SPECIAL. 4 days. semesler. Campus VIew, $108 mo. --~lng Dirt HAS BEEN A LONG TIME IN COMING· Love, $39.95 with 200 tree miles. Phone Call Jane or laura at 277-8646. I MEAN, IN "ARRIVING!" LOVE, JEAN "The Corrupted One" 255-2323 lor reservations. f PERSONALS ATTENTION: Three virile young (in absentia) AND MAUREEN 
Need 2 rides to Cleveland over studs seek the company and favors Congratulations Dorothy. There's Typing done $.50 page • pick up Thanksgiving. Will shore expenses ollhree(or more) women ol equal 
RENT-A-RIOT BE WARNEDI You ore no way N.D. con ever lose now that and delivery 23_3_·_13_2_9____ TERESE, ANN, PATTY, GERRY, LEO, Bill vigor to help them through the
Call Jim 11103. encroaching upon buslneu ocHv· you're cheering lor theml Be sure to 
AND DAN -HAPPY THANKSGIVINGIII lonely days ol ThanksgiVIng break. Need ride lo Dayton tomorrow. 
Illes reaerved ·fa: give us a amlle from California and
No slrlngs oltoched. Call 7838 onv· Pete: 11114 lime. 
LOVE YA. BETH 

lUCKY PRODUCTIONS New Orleons. Beat ol luck. We love
!LOST/FOUND] 
Soy Joyous Noel HANDYMAN UNLIMITED vou. Julie, Colhl!. Monica. Erin.
Th& Illustrious Big AI

Need 2 rides to Cleveland ror With the CARDS that we selll The Notorious TR To avoid a le~jal Injunction or Monico, Polly, Pam, Amy, Mimi, Thanksgiving, will shore expenses. The Shady companion torte action, you may call one ol Nancy, Sharon and Betsy!
BUY CILA X-MAS CARDS!

LOST -a pair ol women's glouea 
Call Jim 8103. the following lo negotiate on out­
two w-.ks ago. Brown, with aun-llnl 
NEED RIDE TO DETROIT FOR THANKS. of-court seltlement: Tenn~CI~IbCI~cJnll,lngtMI~Hin~j
THE FRESHMAN RANKINGS

sensitive len~&~. II found. please Need ride lor 3 to and from Buffalo, 
GIVING lor two people. Con leave Radiant 8193 Dec. 2, 7 p.m., LaFortune. call 277-8037 01 1715 and oak lor N.Y. lor T.G. Break. Call Rich 1739. 
lor the week ol 11/25alter noon on Wednesday. Will Sexy Legs 8197 

1. L.Meger

Beth. Reward. TO THE FLOWER MAN Thonx lor the
share gas and driving. Call
Need ride lo DetroH lor Thanksgiving Our people will gel logelher with
2.A. Morrow 
special delivery, Sweellet You sureMaureen 7936.

LOST on compua. 1 checkbook with lor 2 people· Con leave alter noon 3. T. Valasek your people during or alter Thanks· know how to odd color to two gals' I. D.'s. II found, please call 232·1858 on Wednesday. Will share gas l KAREN ANDRYSIAK: giving break. 
4. S. Ossello lives. Borralln Hugs a. Klsaes. Chlckle
01 contact Sheila Conboy In 309 driving. Call Maureen at 7936. To a Sweet Person Who Deserves ----­
5. J. Zologo &BeegHAVEAGOODDAY
O'Shaugneuv. Oomera Bewor&l Koegel Hall moves
Much More Than This. 

6. J. Kimmel (DLTBYD) What does that mean
on campus next aemesler. ThonxFOUND: AI a formal thla weekend, 7. G. Crinello
TO THE CONTESSA IN HEll BOUDOIR, onywoys?
lor Saturday night, Corrie, libby,
one piece ol women's jewelry. Call Thanks For Thinking ol Me. I Think 8. M. Forbes 1284 to IdentiTy. FOR SALE You're Terrlllc Also. 9. M. Fey Michelle, and Mlrloml Gus' Grill E. H. I don't lake hints very well. Lefl go out again sometime -vou con
Remember, 10. E. Holman To Bobby, Tom, Joe and Bill My unlock the doorl A C 
HOME FOR SALE; ACROSS FROM J'Amour • Tu. JOCGM/ favorite Friday night doles. Thanks 
NOTRE DAME GOLF COURSE 2-STORY for another wild lime. Lots ol love,
[FoR RENT 
FAE, Molly, Flash P.S. ILY2 T.M. and T.K.I
l BEDROOM, FIREPLACE, FENCED 
TU ES DANS MA COEUR ET DANS MA Hove a good break. See youYARD IMMEDIATE POSSESSION HELEN TETE, MAINTAINENT ET TOURJOURS. Jell, Oh aqulshed, 
sometime next week. ..

Wish to aublel 4 person NO opl. lor WOSTMANN 272-27119 ERA EQUITY BEAUCOUP AMOUR, •• your secret admirer •• Good luck on Salida tomorrow As you read this I'm probably second semeater. $90 each/month 
somewhere over Uloh-oh lookl I

256-0263 PIERRE and I'm planning to help vou blow can see Donny a. Marie's teethplus ahore ullllllea. Secure; 10 HEYI WHO IS THIS GUY ANYWAY?? oft lor your test tonight. One good down there. Anyway, don't bounceminute walk to campus. Call 233· FOR SALE: 2 tickets to Bears-Packers To Moo, favor deserves another. Remember any checks In the Windy City, and
Well, here's your long-awaited DON'T WANT TO FIGHT THE CROWDS
2631 game Dec. 7 at Soldier Field and 2 keep Dec. 5 open. We'll hove a wild don't wreck my cor. Thanks lor
personal. I guess now that you're
llx lor Bears-Cincinnati game Dec. AT SHOPPING CENTERS THIS and crazy lime. making the past lew weeks so tilled 
Several houses lor rent, Summer '81 21, you think vou con run the show. 
14 at Soldier Field. Call John at CHRISTMAS? Then shop at the St. Your aludy pal, wtlh joy.
ond/or'81·'82schootvear. Partially Well, I've gol news lor you. You just Love and kisses.
Nick's Christmas Bazaar at Solnt Barb P.S. I'm ready to get blown11540. buy the booze, and maybe then
lurnlshect, good condition. Call Mr. Squlahee
Mory's... Dec 1 through Dec. S•.. 10 oil alter break 'cause you'll hove to 
you con persuade me. P.S. I miss Maxi 287-5361 alter 7 p.m. 
FOR SALE: Sludenl Basketball season Happy Birthday. om to 5 pm...ln the leMons Hall throat II out lor llnolxl 
P.P.S. Don't make up any more ruleslobby. Put some St. Nlcl<s cheer In

Wish to sublet 1 space In CAMPUS ticket. Beat Offer. 2117·2057. Love, P.P.P.S. II you're not there Sunday ... someane's stocking lhlsChrlslmaslll 
VIEW opt. call Llao P. 277-8848 Jose 




Tuesday, November 25, 1980-page 16 
Irish at Pauley-a classic 
. . .and God said, "Let there be basketbalL " 
And there was UCLA. 
Frank 

There is no denying that every sport has a 
LaG 

measuring stick within its own ranks; one team rotta 
that serves as a standard for every other team with 11111••••••••••11111 
no distinctions made between class or conference, 
college or pro. tn baseball, it's the Yankees, while by last season's statistics. 
· football has the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame. As an outside shooter he has exhibited flashes of Hockey boasts of the Montreal Canadiens, and on brilliance, ho.wever nothing particularly consistent. the basketball court, it's UCLA. Consequently, we must wait and see if last year's 
The UniversityofCaliforniaatLosAngeles. This .5 73 shooting percentage will become the rule over-populated state institution sits right up the throughout Daye's UCLA career. Certainly the hill from the community ofWestwood, a not-too­move from backcourt to forward will cause some 
I 
big city that's a story in itself. adjustment problems-like improving a rebound­Doris Day lunches regularly at Yesterday, a ing average that wound up at 1.9 per game. 
' 
small cafe only seconds away from the UCLA Between Sanders and Daye, Brown will most 
! 
student union. Meanwhile, Art Garfunkel treats likely post 6-7 sophomore, Cliff Pruitt. Now 6-7 his sweet tooth to a chocolate sundae at Farrell's isn't very big for a center-especially for a team whenever the line of students isn't too long. 
like UCLA that hopes to score lots ofpoints on the Westwood ... very posh. Very California. 
fast break (which is understandable because they 
Southern California. 
have fast guards.) However, in order for the fastRich people live in Westwood and in nearby break to work, a team must first win the rebound­Beverly Hills orBel Air Estates. People who spend ing battle so it can outlet the ball to its guards. Stay their time between making business deals and tuned to see if Pruitt can fill the bill.
making cocktails at seven. 
Now, about those guards. First we have "Rocket" And a lot of those same people make every Rod Foster, and that nickname ain't no joke. TheUCLA basketball game at eight. Because they love 6-1 sophomore averaged 11.5 points per game fortheir Bruins and they scold them when they're bad the Bruins last season and is one of the reasons(just ask Gene Bartow or Gary Cunningham), but they made it to the finals of the NCAA tournament. 
they praise them when they're good. ' He shot .548 percent from the floor, (.842 from And this year they should be very, very good. 
the line) and dishe"d out 75 assists to boot. He's aCoach Larry Brown will welcome back eight pleasure to watch on the basketball court-if,lettermen this Friday when UCLA opens the 1980­that is, your eyes can keep up with him. 
81 season against Virginia Military Academy at Michael Holton will play the other guard spottheir own Pauley Pavilion. It should be nothing
It .ft'I!IIIS hardto hdieve, hut already it ts UCLA weekfor the Notre and he's only a step behind Foster when they race
more than a warm-up for Saturday's contest against 
/)ame ha.rketha/1 team a.r the I ri.rh open their 1980-1981 campaign at 
up the court. Holton averaged only 5.1 points aNotre Dame ~hen Brown will get a chance to
Pauley Pavilio11 t/Jir Saturday night. Last year, then-fre.rhman guard 
game last season, but look for that total to increaseanswer a few key questions about his squad . 
.follll Pax.ron (ahoz'tY hit four straight free throw.r in the game's waning 
dramatically this season.

For instance, just how much will UCLA miss
11/0illl'llt.r to di11ch Notre Dame's threepoint win in the ACC See the 
Backup roles should be capably handled byKiki Vandeweghe? The finest-shooting forward in Irish Extra f>/J. 5-12. 
forward Tony Anderson and guards Tyren NaullsBruin history (and that includes such players as and Randy Arrillaga. However, don't expect to seeMarques Johnson, Jamaa1 Wilkes and David too much of any of them.
Greenwood) connected on .557 percent of his Saturday night at 6 p.m. PST the Irish will get afield goal attempts and averaged 19.5 points per chance to find out just how good the Bruins are.
game last season. It is doubtful that Brown will find Notre Dame, 4-0 at Pauley Pavilion since 1976,
Rams dump Saints 
anyone to :ake his place. 
might find a different team than the Bruins have Filling his space, however, will be 6-6 junior 
fielded in the pa11t. 0 ne thing Coach Digger Phelps Mike Sanders. He averaged 11.5 points and 5.9 will have to avoid is a track meet. If the Irish allow 
NEW ORLEANS (AP)­a 16-yard strike from quarter-• rebounds per game last season which admittedly is UCLA to control the game's tempo, you can bet itWide receiver Preston Dennard back Vince Ferragamo. not too shabby. Still, he will have to prove that he will be fast.
scored two touchdowns and an A 1-yard dive by Elvis can fill Vandeweghe's role as team leader both on And if that happens, you can bet the Irish will beinspired Los Angeles defense Peacock accounted for the and off the court. If Sanders fails, so might the in trouble. What will most likely occur is a battle ofkept New Orleans at its own other LA score in the nationallv 
Bruins. · speed versus strength. A quick look down theirend of the field for almost the televised game. " At the other forward is a guard. Well, he used to lineup reveals that the Bruins will have troubleentire National Football Lea­Los Angeles raised its record be a guard until Brown decided he had too many muscling anyone, much less a very physical Notre 
the Rams rolled
gue game as to 7-4 and moved back within guards but not enough forwards. So now 6-7 Dame team that will start 6-11 Joe Kleine at over the winless New Orleans one game ofAtlanta in the NFC sophomore Darren Daye is a frontline player
Saints 27-7 last night. west. New Orleans fell to 0-12. ( contined on page 15)
whose ability in such a capacity cannot be judged
Rams defenders sacked New Orleans quarterbacks eight times for a total of 6."> vards and free safetv Nolan Croinwell in­tercepted. two Saints passes, 
Recruiting key for Boulac, Irish 
both of which set up field goals hv Frank Corral. -New Orleans got past mid­
By ArmandKornfeld from home in such bustling cruiting for Notre Dame when Niehaus.
field onlv twice in the game, Sports Writer metropolises as Spring, Tex. he said, "If you're from Notre ''I must have visited Steveboth times in the second half. 
and Fairborn, Ohio. They are Dame you can bet on at least more than thirty times beforeThe first penetration stalled Year after year, Notre Dame the coaches, and more import­he
at the Los Angeles _)0-yard line getting in the front door." finally decided on Notre 
fields one of the finest football antly after the season, they are "It's more difficult than most Dame."
in the third period and a field teams in the nation. The Irish the recruiters. people think," says Boulac. Visitation rules have sincegoal attempt was short. The have claimed the devotion of Brian Boulac, an offensive ''There are so many factors been imposed, however, and asecond forav into Rams terri­literally millions of football fans line coach during the season, is involved-distance, parental school may only contact aton· came ori an 88-vard kickoff across the nation, and even in the recruiting coordinator for pressure, hometown pressure. player three times in personreti.trn by Jimmy R(1gers in the some parts of the world (lest we Coach Dan Devine's staff. Bou­We recruit against USC, Ohio under the current system. Bou­
fourth quarter that put the ball 
at the LA 15. Backup quarter­forget thefaithful who attended lac graduated from du Lac in State, Texas, Penn State, and lac sees this new rule (only last year's Mirage Bowl). No 1963 after making his mark on all those schools do well region­implemented this year) as
back Bobbv Scott then hit tight 
one bets against Notre Dame, the gridiron. He has been at ally. Once we get in the door, bemg hard to enforce, and heend Henrv Childs with a 15-v:ud 
touchdown pass for the i1nly at least now one in their right Notre Dame ever since, attend­we're basically on the same believes many schools will not New Orleans score. mind. ing graduate school here and level as everyone.else." abide by it. Which brings up 
Both of Dennard's touch­Somewhere in the back­beginning as a ~raduate assist­Still, Notre Dame is unique, the question of recruiting viola­downs came in the second ground of this story, however, ant to the coachtng staff back in recruiters do manage to lure tions in general. qu:uier. the first on a 31-yard lie the men who have created Ara's Era. many excellent athletes out to At present, five Pac-10 pass from rookie running back "America's football team." Recruiting is essential to a South Bend to play for the schools are on probation for !\like Guman and the second on These men spend months away strong football pro_gram, and legend. Boulac credits the over­various violations. Many others 

Corrigan, Fau~t meet press 
Chairman of the Univers­
lncommg Notre Dame 
ity's Faculty Board in Con­
Athletic Director Gene 
trol of Athletics, was also
Corrigan and football 
on hand to answer ques­
coach Gerrv Faust held a 
tions from the media. For
joint press conference at 
details on Faust's appoint­
11 :00 this morning in the 
ment announced yesterday,
ACC's Monogram Room. 
see the front page oftoday's
Fr. Edmund P. Joyce, 
Observer. 
the coaching staff responds all excellence of the University seem to be constantly under_ accordingly. Each coach is res­for attracting such a large investigation by the NCAA. ponsible for recruiting players number of top prospects. Notre Dame, however, has to fill the needs of h1s area of "We have a family here, It's never had a violation. As the team. Boulac's basic res­a different type of environment Boulac sees it, "We attract ponsibility is to handle any than at most schools. We are quality people, and· I k to 
problems as well as keep tabs also able to offer a prospect think we are above that type of on the top prospects ot a given more than just a good football thing.'' year. program. And that's import­There certainly appears to be 
Of course, recruitin_g for ant," says Boulac. no reason to worry about the Notre Dame is a bit different Recruiting is a very demand­subject in the future. Not ifthis than recruiting for, say-Air ing job. Boulac recalls his year's team is any indication of 
Force. · A former experience trying to sign for­the talent Boulac and his assistant coach explained re-mer All-America tackle Steve charges can acquire. 












