, , , Interhall football -page 8 

VOL. XV, NO. 53 
Police apprehend 
burglars 
Hy john M. HiggiriS Staff Reporter 
South Bend Police arrested 
two black males as they tried to 
enter a student house Friday 
night after one of the residents 
telephoned police while listen­
ing to the pair attempt to break 
through the back door. 
According to Notre Dame student Jim Reynolds, he was alone in the house at 11 33 Corby Street when he heard a knock on the front door at 9:30 
p.m. When he didn't answer the door, he heard someone trying to open a window at the side of the house. He then called po­lice. 
"We've had some guys check­ing out the place earlier in the semester," Reynolds said. "I heard them ouside and figured they decided to come back. I didn't want them to know I was home." 
Unable to open the window, the burglars then tried to kick down the back door, Reynolds said. "I was talking to the (police) dispatcher when I heard the door start to come apart." 
According to SBPD Sgt. Paul Jewel, the arresting officers observed the two men trying to break down the door and ap­prehended them. Jewel did not know if the pair lived in the neighborhood. He said that a third male may have eluded police. 
"I was pretty impressed with the police," Reynolds said. "People are always getting on their backs, but they got here about two minutes after I cal­led." 
Reynolds said that his was the only student house in the neighborhood. "There were two other houses on the block," he commented, "but after they both got robbed they moved out." 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1980 

The Coronation ofthe Virgin, a medevial sculpture, is one ofmany fine art pieceron display at the recently opened Snde Muse11m. For a related story see page 3. 


Duggan elaborates on St. Mary's role 
Dr. John Duggan has been chanxing thir policy? president ofS<tint Mary's College A: Well, we've made a lot of since 1975. In an interview last changes in the last few years. week with Observer staff reporter When I came to Saint Mary's, the Mary Agnes Carey, Duggan dis­parietals were 10 p.m. on Friday cussed parietals, in loco parentis, the and Saturday· night, and 6 p.m. ND-SMC relationship, and the on Sunday, and we extended future of Saint Mary's. those hours to midnight about 
the time I came. It seemed to me, after some study and consider­ation, that hours similar to Notre Dame's were in the interest of ourSaint Mary's students, and we changed our hours to match theirs on the weekend. I'm com­fortable with the parietals we have now, and I haven't been persuaded by any arguments that


Dr. Duggan 
there should be some significant change.

Q: St11dents see Saint Mary's as 2: Notre Dame has the polky of behind the times on the issue of male vtsitation 11nllf midnight during the zllsitfltirm. How do y()ll ;itstif.y parietals? w.·ekdays and Saint Mary's does not What is .rtoppinx Srtint Mary's from h~ "Je that poliry. What is stopping 

First in 32 years 

Lame duck Congress returns 
WASHINGTON (AP)­Congress is returning to town this week for the first lame­duck session in a presidential election year in 32 years, giving Democrat~ thrown out ofoffice the chance for a last stand. 
But whether they will be able to accomplish anything before being inundated by the tidal wave sweeping Republicans in­to Congress in early January is questionable. 
Congress returns to town on Wednesday in the first such post-election session since 1948, when Democratic Pres­ident Harry S. Truman, newly elected to a full four-year term, summoned a reluctant "do-

nothing" GOP-controlled Con­
gress back to town. 
But Congress recessed with­
out acting on any of the leg­
islation Truman requested. 
A test of whether the 1980 
lame duck Congress will be any 
more productive may come on 
the proposed $39 billion tax­
cut bill being pushed by con­
gressional Republicans-with 
the blessings of President-elect 
Ronald Reagan. 
An immediate tax cut also has 
the support of Senate Demo­_cratic Leader Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia. But it is opposed by the House Democratic lead­ership and it appears doubtful it will get the support of the tax-
writing House Ways and Means Committee. 

Beyond this potential road­block was the prospect of a possible veto by President Carter of any Reagan-style tax cut-a veto that probably could be sustained by a Con­·gress that, at least for now, remains in Democratic hands. 
Lame-duck Democrats may try to push a number of pet projects, or holdover legisla­tion supported by the Carter administration. 
But Republicans have enough parlimentary devices at their dispm .d -especially in the Senate-to delay action on. 
(continued on page 4) 
. 

Professor Fenlon dies ; services held today 
By Mtke O'Brien Staff Reporter 
Funeral services for Paul Fenlon, ND professor emeritus .,f English, are schedulf·d for 3:30p.m. today in Sacred Heart Church. Fenlon died Friday at age 84. 
Born in Blairsville, Penn., Fenlon came to the Univt::rsitv in 1915. He graduated three years later with a degree in law and ~ent to work for a bank in Chicago before returning to teach in the English department in 1921. 
During his tenure at ND, Fenlon served for several years as chairman of the English department and assistant dean oi the College of Arts and Letters. 
A 59 year resident ofSorin Hall, Fenlon was known as the last of the "bachelor dons": Notre Dame professors who lived right on campus. 
Friends called Fenlon a one-man alumni association, citing the thousands of graduates he was in contact with as well as his uncanny ability to remember their indivjdual years ofgraduation ,md personal information. One professor recalled that Fenlon was a good friend to the four horsemen ofgridiron fame, even though he "didn't know a football from a baseball." 
Professor Fenlon is survived by ~one niece, Mrs. Thomas Caseywho is a graduate of Saint Mary's College. 
Saint Mary's from totallv equalizing tbe visitation policy? 
A: I'm not sure that having male visitation in the dormitories on the weekdays is a good idea. I'm not saving ·he idea should 
not be considered by students or 

·study groups, or whatever, but I'm convinced that as a women's college, where we talk regularly about the value of women who are learning from and with other women and interacting regularly with them, and being free of the kind of restraints of society that are typically· imposed by male dominance, or male ·presence, that there's anything to be gained by introducing men into the dormitories on weekdays. 
I would ask myself, in what sense are we a women's college? Ifwe have some classes with men, if we have men as regular fixtures in the dormitories on a day-in, day-out basis, how then do we say that there are advantages for women to be educated in a women's society? It seems the next step would be to become co-educational. 
Q: What wo11ld be a cause for tl change in rules? . 
A: I think a well-researched, well-documented proposal that addresses itself to some of the concerns that I've raised (would be a cause for a change in rules). 
Q: How do you define the college's role as an imtitution "in loco parentis?" Doesn't it, ~y defirlition, suggest a parent-child relationship, therefore hindering the development ofthe Saint Mary's student? 
A: You'll have to look long and hard to find anything in what the college says in its official pub­lications, or in anything I've ever said, that stipulates an "in loco parentis" policy. My understand­ing is that we don't have one. If you're talking about the regu­lations we have, those are promulgated widely and I believe our rules, to the extent that we have them, are for the betterment of the community. 
I think that we both make and 
enforce rules in such a wav that 
we encourage self.respopsibility and sell~developmennt among students. And to describe uur rules he're, rather than saying that we're in an "in loco parentis" relationship, I would sav wt,.re in a contractual relationship wht·re we've said this is the kind of institutiori we arc. We don't hide the rules· from anybody before . hey get here. When you come here, you n1mt here with the understanding that this is the kind of society you're going to live in. Not "in loco parentis," because that tenJs to signil~· a kind of pejorativ•~ mothering of student involvement -"we know what's bes1:," but 1atht:r a C(ll11mUnity wht·re reople ctre 'd(·eply · about one a11otht·r's 
dcvdopnwnt..md work Hl\\ ard 
that. I think it wod s pre! tv well. 
Q: Wbe11 the 1972 merger bdu•c·<w Notre Dame fltltl Saint Mttrv'.r u•a.r crtncellcd, the ft~tllrc of St~int' Mary's was q11estionctl. Lookinx hack. wll(tf were the· g()()d til/(/ bt1tl refitlt.r of tlutf dedsirm? 
A: Well, I wasn't here tht•n, so what I know I know secondhand. But I can't think of many negative results that have come from that decision. It forced Saint Mary's to do a campus-wide rethinking of what we stood for and where we were going. That process, as I understand it, galvanized the community into taking somt• steps that assured a strong future for Saint Mary's. That is to say, the college reaffirmed its com· mitment to being a Catholic women's liberal arts college. 
So it took a serious look at 
(continued on page 4) 


•



News Briejj_ 
Monday, November 10, 1980 -~page 2 

by The Observer and The Associated Press 
A pet 8-foot-long python ap­parently in search offood slithered into die crib ofa sleeping haqy and crushed the girl to death in a vicelike squeeze, Dallas authorities said. Seven-month-old Toni Lynn Duboe ·1robably never uttered a cry because "as the victim tries to .1reathe, the snake squeezes tighter and tighter around the body," said a spokesman for the Dallas County medical examiner. The baby, whose body was covered by dozens of needle-fine tooth marks, was found by her mother about 8 
1. m. Saturday, authorities said. The snake was curled on a ledge above the crib. The baby's 5-year-old sister, Jessie, was !Sleep in the same bedroom but was not harmed. Alerted by iis wife, Robert Eugene Duboe, a 35-year-old machinist, ushed into his daughters' bedroom, grabbed the snake and ,·restied it into another bedroom. Duboe, near hysteria, shot i1e snake with a .25-caliber pistol and partially severed its 1ead with a kitchen knife, said Dallas police Sgt. Gus Rose. .)uboe threw the snake back into the bedroom with the dead ·trl, where police found it when they came to the apartment i o investigate. Officers said the non-poisonous snake, which has tremendous stength, forced its way out ofa covered 30­gallon aquarium in the living room, where it had been kept .;ince Duboe bought it in California a little over two vears ago. The medical examiner's office ruled the child died from traumatic asphyxia as a result of the snake's wrapping itself around her body and squeezing. It may have taken as long as five minutes for the child to die, according to a medical examiner's field agent. Rose said Duboe told police ·hat he fed the reptile a hamster every two weeks but that "it had been two weeks since it was last fed-it could have been 
JUngry and probably was." The snake was 4 inches in liameter, weighed 7 pounds and was 2 years old. -AP 
Leaders of Poland's defiant trade union "Solidarity" mapped strategy here yesterday in the last hours before a Supreme Court session that could spark a new wave ofstrikes in this Soviet-bloc nation. At the same time, the communist government stepped up its warnings of grave social and economic consequences of a strike. And Polish television showed film of joint Polish­Soviet military exercises held in an area that Western observers believe is in the country's north, near the Baltic Sea yesterday marked the third.day of a sit-in by teachers, doctors and health care workers at the district government headquarters in Gdansk. The protest began after separate wage and benefit talks with senior government negotiators broke down. Officials of Solidarity barred reporters fromthe Club of Catholic Intellectuals, site of Solidarity's national presidium meeting, and refused comment when asked if negotiations with the government were under way or planned. "We must tell you that there will be no comment, no statement," saidJan Litynski, a member of the dissident Committee for Social Self-Defense and an associate of the 
union leadership. The Supreme Court is expected to .rule today on Solidarity's petition to delete from the charter a district court-ordered phrase affirming the leading role ofthe Communist Party. -AP 
President-electRonald Reagan should have little trouble getting more defense money from Congress, possibly even the $20 billion one adviser says he could request. Congress is already so defense-minded that it ap­proved $5 billion more for weapons than President Carter asked. And voters elected even more defense supporters to the new Congress convening in January. The Reagan adviser, William Van Cleve, told CBS reporter Ike Pappas on Thursday that a $20 billion increase next year is not in­conceivable to correct deficiencies, particularly manpower problems. Rep. Joseph P. Addabbo, D-N.Y., an occasional critic ofdefense spending and chairman ofthe House defense appropriations subcommittee, says Congress might approve that. "I hope not, but they probably would," Addabbo said in an interview. "He'd probably get it, with the mood Congress is in." That would boost to $195 billion the $175 billion working figure Carter set lastJuly for fiscal1981. The $17 5 billion figure itself has probably increased since then. And a $20 billion increase would boost the appropriation request to· C":ongress to about $211 billion or more. Appropriations are c~,., .. ''y higher because they include program funds for future years.-AP 
.P~rt~y sunny and cool today ~11th htghs m the upper 40s. Clear and cool tonight, with lows m the 20s. Mostly sunny tomorrow, the high around 50. 
Inside Monday 
Better late than never ? 
ATLANTA, Ga.--I think I must be in the wrong business. Right now, back at The Obs~rv_er office, there is a Desi~n Editor pantcking. I m on the road and he ts reading my note that says my column will be a little late. But it will be there! Really! I promise! 
Isn't that what counts? 
Not necessarily, so I've been told. Dead­lines-.-especially in a newspaper business--are very rmpo~ant. That's why I must be in the wrong busmess. I have not made a single deadline in my entire life! My Mom has told me that I was late for my date of birth. From the dar I walked into kindergarten late, my Dad has satd to me, 'There's nothing wrong with being early Margie.' 
Well, I know I'm not the only one in the world who always arrives late for dates, parties and classes. There is a silent minority of pc:rpetuallate.-comers that are greatly descrim­mmated agamst by people who insist on promptness. 
Wc;:'re no~ the average late-comer, the kind who IS late JUSt whenever he feels like it-who over-sleeps just occasionally. No we're /uways late. 
Perpetual late-comers could leave extra-early for where they're supposed to be and some­thing will stop them and make them late. Invariably, inevitably, it never fails. It could be a bus tha_t will be just off time enough to make you a mmute or two late. Or it could be a friend who needs a hand 'for just a second' with a paper. It could even be the beauty of a day that you just have to stop and look at for a ~omen~. Anyway, whatever the reason (not 
excuse as our detractors would say) we will win~ up being late. Perpetual late-comers have a philosophy: you can't place time limit on life. 
I will grant, some deadlines are necessary, if only to. ma~e sure something gets done. Otherwtse th1s column would never get written and newspapers never printed. Nor would classes and football games ever be attended. And no one would have made it to the polls to vote (which might not have been so bad but that's another column). ' 
But really! Time can be taken too seriously. People can get so caught up with being prompt that they forget what they are doing. A prime example are the profs who get so terribly upset when a ~tudent w~lk~ into class late. There you are, trymg to shp tn the door quietly and inconspicuously slide into the nearest desk. Until you hear this voice booming, 'Mfss Smith there is a desk right here in front.' And yo~ l~k _up at the teacher who is sneeringly pomttng to an empty desk right in front of the lectern. The prof's whole purpose of course is to emba~rass yo~ and make you feel guilty. 
Well, It doesn t work. All they do interrupt their own lecture and train of thought and the perpetual late-comer will continue to be late. It is not laziness or inconsiderateness. Really. 
The_Qhs_erY-er 
Dnt:~" Fitlitor.. ............. Mike Monk Dt•.ri;,:ll A.r.risftm!J ......... Monica Gugle 
Pam• H ullcv l:r()'tml Stt~ff ......... Gavnor M.c:Gowa~ NiKI!t Tn:h11iufm ........ : .. Rich Fisl·her Nt'll'J Fiditor................ Lvnn Dalcv (,(,PJ' Editor ................ L~nn Dale~ Sports Copy Editor ....... Beth Huffma~ "/)•pist ................... Suzv Sulentic .\)•.rlniiJ Tt•chm'dml ......... St~ve Brown SMC Dill' Editor ........ Eilucn Murphv (,'m·.rt A;~petlrtmce.r ..... .".. Margie hmssil 
Mike Mollinelli 
Atlanta Rhythm Section 
WITHSPECIALGUESTS 


Off Broadway 

The Observer (USPS 598 il20) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation 
ATTHE 

NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 

periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions 
WED., NOVEMBER 12,7:30 p.m. may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre 
ALL SEATS RESERVED · $8.50 I $7.50 on sale starting Oclober 20 at the Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class 
Noire DameA.C.C. B~x Off1ce 9 lo 5 • al all River Cily Record Stores So. Bend and M1ch1gan City • Robertson's So. Bend & Concord Mall • Firsl

postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 
Bank & St. Joseph Bank, So. Bend • Elkhart Truth Midwesl Museum

46556. 
Suspended Cord in Elkhart • Butterfly Records In Wa;saw e Southbound

The Observer Is a member of the 
Records 1n Fori Wayne • AecordJand in Benton Harbor. MAIL ORDER·

Associated Press. All reproduction 
N.D.A.C.C., Notre Dame, IN 46556. . rights are reserved. 
Margie 



Brassil 

Perpe!u~ late-comers are like people with chrome hiccoughs--they can't help themselves. !hey try to conform, they do, but it is nearly tmposstble. 
. What is Time anyway? We divide it up into httle packages and plan our lives to fit within them. It's convement, that's all. Time packages get things done--but who wants to try and fit one's whole life into one? , 
If anyone has ever had a schedule where they ha_d to be someplace every hour of the day, they wtll understand what I mean. From, say, 9 a.m. til 10 p.m., you are running back and forth to be places. You usually find by the end of the day that you never were really at any ofthose places. In your mind you were thinking ahead to the next place, and how and when you were going to get there. 
Keeping strictly to a schedule reduces spon­taneity and creativity. You enjoy the present moment less. Life becomes a series of 'what's 
I next?' 'where next?' And you run around like the rabbit in Alice in Wonderland saying ''I'm late I'm late _for a very important date." You're so busy gettmg to where you are going, that you miss the road you are on. But, if you resign yourself to the fact that you'll get there when you can, and do that as soon ~s possible(Like all perpetual latecomers), then tt all gets done and sometimes it's a little better and sometimes it rambles on, enjoying not eve; coming to the end. Speaking ofcoming to the en... twelve hours of driving through Tennessee, Kentucky, and Indiana has bought us back to the land of the Golden Dome. I am now past deadline, but happily I have a very underdstanding Design Editor who is also used to my columns being a little latt'. 


M.M.A.A. PRODUCTIONS WELCOMES 
~~ 

The Observer Monday, November 10, 1980-page 3 

Campus Democrats rally following Tuesday's defe3.t 
by John M. Higgins Staff Reporter 

Speakers at a campus rally Friday afternoon called on Democrats to maintain social concern and political interest during "this long winter of defeat and discontnent"in the wake of the overwhelming conservative victory in Tuesday's election. 
Three University faculty members addressed a crowd of 120 who turned out for a public discussion held on the steps of the Administration Building to "constructively focus on the future of the Democratic Party." 
The speakers shied away from direct attacks on President­elect Ronald Reagan or the Republican Party and focused more on the renewaf of the Democratic Party, cautioning a~ainst political apathy. 
" [ t's natural to feel dejected," Government Professor Edward Goerner said, "but this is not the time to become apathetic. In this Ion~ winter ofdefeat and discontent courage is a virtue. Now is time for concern about justice, to talk to the other side. 
Snite opens to public 
By Dt~vitl St~rphie 
Stt1jf Reporter 

A large, enthusiastic crowd ~reeted the new addition to the Notre Dame campus yesterday, as the Snite Museum ofArt was publicly opened for the first time. To the delight of museum director Dr. Dean Porter, both university students and mem­bers of the South Bend com­munity were among the first to enter the modern structure. 
"The crowd was lined up all the way to Dorr Road before we opened," Porter remarked. "That was the goal we had worked for all along." 
The public dedication was preceded by several days of activities, including a dedica­tion Mass and a panel discussion by leading national art critics. 
"The art experts seemed very impressed with the pieces we have," Porter noted. "They compared the Snite Museum with the fine university galleries 
' at Yale and Harvard." The collection ofalumni and faculty art pieces drew consid­erable attention from the first day's visitors. 
"We have almost one hun­dred alumni included in this unusual exhibit," Porter point­ed out. "I think there are some very fine works here." 
Porter was especially pleased at the number of visitors from the South Bend community: "Many have wondered if it's possible to do something pos­itive in the South Bend area. I think we've proven we can." 
Porter emphasized the goals for which the Snite staff must now strive. "We've reached a kind of plateau," he said. "We have a good building and good people. Now it's our joh to ac­quire more masterpieces." From the reaction of the crowds, it appears they have an excellent start. 

. at O'Laughlin Auditoritim . • Call23~-3659 to reserve time : November 11, 1980 8:00o.m. : for your demonstration. General admission $4 Students $2 
not to despair." 
"We can no longer depend on party affiliation for support," Law School Professor Edward Gaffney said. "We need to engage in a critical dialogue to see what can be done to revive those elements ofthe party that have become disconcerted." 
"Three-fourths of the coun­try did not vote for Reagan Tuesday," English Professor Eileen Bendy said. "I find hope in that. This year's election was not a product of political apathy, but of antipathy. Most people didn't vote/or any can­didate, but against the one they disliked the most or they didn't vote at all." 
"This isn't a 'hate Reagan' rally," organizer Rachel Patter­son said. "We're here to take a realistic look at what can be done in the future to prevent this kind of conservative movement from overwhelming us again." 
Goerner called for discon­tented Democrats to talk with party leaders on the grassroots level to find out what can be done. "Now is the time to go back to the party organization and say, 'Hey, I'm interesed in active leadership, what can I do?" 

The dedication of the crowd attending the rally to the Democratic Party was some­what questionable. An informal survey of 14 people who at­tended the rally turned up no one who had actively partici­pated in the recent election campaign on behalf of any Democratic candidate despite 
the  bitter  struggle  of  two  
Democratic  Congressional  
leaders  to  remain  in  office  

House Majority Whip John Brademas and three-term Senator Birch Bayh, that oc­curred in this district. Both were defeated by young, "New Right" candidates. 
"I didn't really see a race I wanted to get involved in," one student said, also citing his residency outside oflndiana as a major factor. 
The main problem with the Democratic Party today is a lack of organization of its suppor­ters", Gaffney said. He quoted satirist Will Rogers, saying "I belong to no organized political party, I'm a Democrat." 

2/$1.00 
ALL WEEK LONG!! 
Saint Mary's College Performing Arts Series Presents : 
JOPC:~ 


LOOK INTO TORRINGTON ••• If you're looking for a career with diversity and challenge. Opportunities in field, product, project and research engineering. The Torrington Company is a major international 
manufacturer of precision metal products for all kinds of industries around the world. Plants and of­fices in North and South America, Europe, Africa, 
Asia and Australia. 
Outstanding training program provides rapid professional growth for engineers in technical sales and other areas. 
The Torrington Company, Torrington, CT 06790 
An equal opportunity employer 
Interviewing November 19 
TORRINGTON 
Part of worldwide Ingersoll-Rand 


As a pilot, you'll be trained to fly the most ad­vanced jets ever developed. As a Naval fligh.t officer, you'll operate the sophisticated weapon systems, computers, and advance electronics. As either, you'll wear the wings of Naval Aviation. 
Code of the West requires you to be in college ora graduate, less than 29 years old. 
Call collect (312)657-2171. 


: IBM : 
• Presents :
.•··············•··································•·······• . 
: ~The IBM Displaywriter~ • :: System ~:
. .
--··································~~····················· 

• (It Hath Spelling • : And It Hath Math) : : Wednesday, Nov. 12, 1980 : • BlueGold Room, Morris Inn • 
: SHOWINGS AT:. : : 8:30a.m. : • 10:30 a.m. • : 1:30 p.nl. : • 3:30p.m. • 
-::::;---------------~------­
Monday, November 10, 1980-page4

The Observer 
By Eileen Murphy newsletter during which stu­Center, and various academic dents will have the chance to departments as well as inmates The Saint Mary's campus will speak with contributing auth-presently serving sentence in 
enjoy the first appearance ofa ors. Indiana prisons. 
... Cnngress

SMC 
social justice newsletter this "Student government in­"In the future, we hope to 
week, courtesy of the SMC tends to use as many facets of continue tapping all relevant student government. the community for 'The Lib­community organizations and (continued from page 1) 


"The Liberator", said Joan erator' as possible," said Mc­interested individuals," Mc­
any given bill for the rest of theMcCarthy, student vice presi­Carthy. Carthy added. 

year.





publishes 
dent for academic affairs, "re­The first issue, which focuses "The Liberator" will be dis­
And the Congress that re­

presents an effort to increase on the United States criminal tributed today in the dining hall 
turns in early January will be a

community awareness on jus­justice system, has input not and the LeMans lobby. The fol­
far different body, with Repub­

tice issues that warrant reflec­only from SMC students, but low-up luncheon dialogue will· 
icans holding 53-47 command

tion and action." A lunch-time also from members of the Jus­take place in the Rotary Room 
of the Senate and Democrats


newsletter 
discussion tomorrow will fol­tice Education Committee, tomorrow from 12:15 to 1:15 
clinging to a relatively narrow 

low the distnbution of each South Bend'sJustice and Peace p.m. 
243-192 margin of control in the House. The difficulty of getting any­





FrancisCan: IP----------------, 
thing controversial passed in
Tuesday 1 
the lame-duck session has prompted a number of con­gressional leaders, includingA Gospel Lifestyle I I 8:00 til? II House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill, to suggest that the­for Today I I session may be a short one­
I I involved mainly with bills 
, ---4--: 
, .. needed to keep the government
---I nteJr.ellted ht 6oilowhtg , ----, , --the. v.Ls-i.on and U6e6ttjle ofi -, .. functioning. 
, .. ---Congress this year still must 
----, .. St. Francis of Assisi --· ---I BUDWEISER I pass 10 appropriations bills es­
--· 
--, -M a. BlwtheJr. otr.. a. P!Uellt? ----, I I sential to allow government


-, .. 
---, , --eonta.ct: FRANCISCAN VOCATIONS -------, I I agencies to meet payrolls and 
pay their bills for fiscal 1981,
~--., 
---.. Department C. :...... , ~~.. which began last Oct. 1. 
_, ..
3320 St. Paschal Dr. 
-, And Congress has yet to agree -----,. , , -------,~-I 2/$1.00 I
Oak Brook, IL 60521 on an overall budget for the 
~--'• 
--,--­
federal government.

~----------------~ 

. . . Q&A 
(continued from page 1)
AEP 
expanding such programs as business and nursing, which have been very successful. In one case, they' added an addition to the

CAREER 
curriculum. In another case we returned to an area in which Saint Mary's had done very well once before. It also brought the alumnae, because they were very

NIGHT 
interested in these deliberations, very much into the circle of people concerned about Saint Mary's, so much so that programs involving alumnae and financial support of the college began to
Thursday, November 20, 1980. 
develop. The whole fund raising program as we know it today
6:30' p.m.-7:30 p.m. 
began to take root. The corporate pride in being a separate, dis­cernible, different institution from (Notre Dame), and in par­
Room 014 In Basement of Center for Continuing Education 
ticular the emphasis on an education for women, became a very strong force.
e A career with American Electric Power means more than just a job. Your 
Q: What-isyottr visionfor thefuture of Saint Mary's?
skills and effort make a vital contribution to the energy independence of 
A: I want Saint Mary's to 
the nation. 
produce women who are e<;lucated in the Christian tradition, with deep spiritual, lmmane values,
• Career opportunities are avaUable for Electrical, Mechanical and Civil 
who will leave here with a strong commitment to social justiceand
Engineers at our New York CUy, Columbus, Ohio, and Canton, Ohio, 
a strong commitment to making their corner of the world better than it was before they got there. It's not enough for us to develop minds, and writing styles, and 
offices. 
• We will also be recruiting on-campus 
speaking styles, abilities to solve
Friday, November 21, 1980 
problems, and think creatively, unless the person who benefits
• 
from that kind of education is
• Please sign up at the Career Planning and Placement Office for an 
committed beyond their own personal welfare. That's summed
interview appointment. 
up for me in the Jesuit motto, "Ad Majorem, Dei Gloriam," which means, "For the Greater
• If you are unable to aHend on the above dates, please forward your 
Glory of God." And that's the 
resume to: Delia Graham, American Electric Power Service Corporation, 
kind of student we like to turn out. I think we do a pretty good
2 Broadway, New York, New York 10004. An equal opportunity employer, 
job of it. 
m/f/h/v. 
....._ROCCOS--t 
men's and women's hairstyling at
AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER 
comfortable prices
SERVICE CORPORATION 
531 N. Michigan 233-4957 
The OIJset:ver_ 




~~c:]l~~=========================M=o=n=d=a=y,=N==o=ve=m==b=er==l0='=1=9=8=0=-==p=a=ge==5

Campus 
• 6:45p.m.-daily rosary at the grotto 
•7:30 p.m. -film, "his girl friday," engr. aud, $1. 
• 8:00p.m.-mandatory meeting for all interested in running for district represen­tative to student senate, student govt. offices, second floor, Iafortune. 
Doonesbury 

Oak Room 
opens Thursday 
The opening of the Oak Room Cafe has been moved back from today to Thursday. That evening, the Oak Room will be o~;>en from 8:00 p.m. to 
12:00 midnight, a~d will. be serving short order Items (1.e., ice cream, milk shakes, soda, 
etc 




Molarity 

-!~ ~~~ 
1_, ·'.-u---.­
~ 
-
© 1980 United Feature Syndicate, inc. f0-Z1 



The Daily Crossword . 

10/20/80
© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd.lnc. 
All Rights Reserved ~ 
Father John Nicola speaks on 
Exorcism, Satan . and Demonology November 10, 1980 -Monday­
8:30 Library Auditorium 
free admission sponsored by SU Academic Commission 

Michael Molinelli 
ACROSS 28Hoata, 1 Movledog for short 5 Spokes, 31 "-man 
10 Scontln with seven bridge wives" 1 14 Metal 32 ActorRay money 33 "One man's 15 Hunterof -Ia••." mythology 34 Newman film 
16 Large 37 Festivity volume times 17 Biblical 38 Hermes' 
structure mother 20 Polntout 39 "Solong" 21 Pressing In Seville 22 Beach sight 40 Smith or 23 .._by the Barber 
papens" 41 Genesis 24 Yuletide name songs 42 Some hotel 27 Oklahoma accommoda· city tiona 
Friday's Puzzle Solved 

~~~~~:;;;::~~~ 
43 Clothing 23 Land of the 44 12·polnt Ganges 
type 24 Onewho 45 Dellmeat quotes 48 Slender 25 Get-on 
cigar: var. (huny) 52 FPA's 28 Mated 
column again 54 Wash 27 Baylorof 55 Atelier basketball 
Item 28 Deserve 56 Residence 29 Kayak expense 30 Faclnga 57 Sad news glacier 
Item 32 Diarist 56 Trite Nln 59 Sp. ladles 33 Go-between& 
35 Thinks up 

DOWN 36 Plumbing 1 Play opener fixture 2 Child: Ger. 41 Penyof 3 Even song 4 Counter 42 Unitary 
agents 43 Silent, 5 Ash trees In music 6 Mountain 44 Talkahow 
ridge group 7 Extreme 45 French town 8 Yeansln 46 Fictional 
a century whaler 9 Injected 47 Sonof 
fluid Jacob 10 Produce 48 Tower city 11 Earpart 49 Pitcher 
12 Sobelt 
50 Russian 13Thaw river 18 Relating 51 Crafts' to the eye partner 19 Word with 53 Turner Ill orwell or Cole 
-..~~~~~~~..-.~~~~~~ ..... ~ 
• t STUDENT SENATE t 
' t t
t t WILL ,EXIST! t 
I t i t 
' t :
1 t You overwhelmingly demonstrated t 1 tyour approval -now continue your t 1 1support by running for representative t t oryour district(lookfor district break-t
1

I tdown on posters in your halls and t I 11ocations off-ca111pus.) t 
t t MANDATORY MEETING f 
• 
f for those interested: t 

• 
f MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 8:00 f I t SECOND FLOOR LaFORTUNE f


LL______________
l~ 

______________________________________________________________________. 
The Observer Monday, November 10, 1980 -page 6 
24:40.

Harriers • • • St. Ed's
The other finishers for the 
Irish were Ralph Caron (7), 

split at BGSU 
by Matt Huffman Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame cross country team split in a double duel this past weekend in Bowling Green, Ohio. 
The Irish were defeated by the host Falcons 36-21. In the tally from the same race Notre dame nipped Northern Illinois 31-27. 
Greg Domente finished at 
24:29 to capture the individual first place. Chris Koehler of Bowling Green came in second. Chuck Aragon placed third and paced the Irish with a time of 

BE ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AT 22. 
John Filosa (11), andJohn Riely (13). 
"We could have run better than we did," commented head coach Joe Piane. "But overall I was satisfied with our perform­ance. I thought John Riely ran his best race of the year. Ralph Caron also ran well. 
"We have run B.G. twice this year. I think the way we ran tonight showed that we have had some improvement this year." 
Piane's squad will travel to Champaign, Ill. Saturday for the NCAA District IV cham­pionships. The race will be 10,000 meters. Nine days later the NCAA championships are scheduled to take place in Wichita, Kan. 
(continued from page 8) 
plunge from a yard out on the first play of the second quarter. Grace came back and drove to the Cavanaugh 10, but quarter­backJohn Kenney and fullback Dave Rathgeber muffed a handoff on 3 rd and three and lost the scoring threat. 
The second half belonged to Grace. Safety Sly Johnson in­tercepted Cavanaugh's Bill Fitz at the Grace 35 and returned the ball 22 yards. From the Cavanaugh 3 7, a personal foul and a Kenney pass to split end Rick Thomas moved Grace 26 yards. An interference penalty moved Grace to Cavanaugh's one and tailback Wil Bostick dove in from there. RayJacobi's extra point veered wide. 
Grace's Jeff Cook picked off another Fitz pass with three minutes to play and returned the ball to Cavanaugh's 49. Kenney then connected with speedy Matthew Ralph on the left sideline for a 39-yard gain. Cavanaugh's defense stiffened, though, and Jacobi's 26-yard field goal try with 1:10 left sailed wide left forcing the over­time. 

Each team got four downs to score from the ten yard line. and 
(continued from page 8) 0:56 and 15:47. 
McNamara's streak was stop­ped just 30 seconds into the second period when Steve Ulseth connected on a power­play goal to make it 2-1. Bjork responded at 5:07 with a 45­
Think of a ship as a corpora­tion, and it's not farfetched at all. A destroyer may have fifteen officers, other ships even fewer. Even the most junior officer gets to share in running the show. 
You become part of the management team when you get your commission as an ensign after just 16 weeks of leadership training at Officer Candidate School. 
Choose to be a Navy officer and you are responsible for people and equipment almost immediately. 
Many officers go on for further advanced schooling. The Navy has literally dozens of fields for its officers­everythplg from nuclear pro­pulsion to systems analysis, 
oceanographytoinvento~ 
management. In graduate school, this training would cost you thousands, but in the Navy, we pay you. 
Ask your Navy representa­tive about officer opportuni­ties, or mail this coupon for more information. Or call toll-free 800-841-8000 (in GA call toll-free 800-342-5855 ). There's no obligation, and you'll learn about an excellent way to start a career in management. As a college graduate you can get manage­ment experience in any indus­t~. But you'll get it sooner­and more of it-in the Navy. 

r-------------, 
NAVY OPPORTUNITY CI44 INFORMATION CENTER P.O. Box 2000 Pelham Manor, New York 10803 
0 Yes, I'm interested in becoming a Navy Officer. Please send me more information. ( jl)G) 
Name---------------------­
FIRST (PLEASE PRINT) LAST 
Address•----------­
City•--------State--Zip-­
Age--tCollege/University•-----­
=!:Graduation Date--¢Grade Point-­
AMajor/Minor·--------­
Phone Number·---------------­( AREA CODE) CN11/80 
The More We Know, The More We Can Help. The Privacy Act under Title 10, Section 503, 505, and 510 states that you do not have to answer the personal questions we have asked. However, the more we know, the more 1\CCUrately We Can determine your quaJifica· 
L~~~~avy ~~Pro~m_:_____j 
IAVYOFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST. 
couldn't move the ball. Bostick gained three for Grace on its first try. Kenney then fired to Thomas on a slant-in for a touchdown and the victory. 
"The pass has worked for us all year," said Kenney. "Today I got great protection because the linemen sustained their blocks and we mixed in the 
running game real well, too." 
• • ~ND 
foot blast past Gopher goalie Paul Butters for a 3-1 Irish lead. 
Bryan Erickson pulled Minn­esota to within one at 7:50 with a power-play goal andJeffTeal tied the score, 3-3, at 17:07 when he deflected a slapshot over McNamara. 
Then the Broten brothers, Neal and Aaron, appeared to put the game away for the Gophers. Aaron connected on a wrist shot just 15 seconds into the final period and Neal scored the Gophers' third power-play goal at 3:27 for a 5-3 Minnesota lead. 
But 59 seconds later, fresh­man center Adam Parsons set up Bjork perfectly for his s~c­ond score and the Irish returned to within one goal. Notre Dame evened it with a rarity-a power-play goal-by junior Dave Poulin at 6:25 and the Irish were back in the game. 
"It was great to see us skate that much harder when we were down," said Smith. "It would have been very easy to quit­
but our players are not quit­
ters." 
Bjork, again receiving help from Parsons, scored the game­winner at 12:31 when he en­tered the Gopher zone leading a 3-on-1. He cut over to the inside edge of the left faceoff circle and rifled ·a wrist shot past Butters' far side. 
The Irish ended the game by killing a Minnesota power play. MeNamara totaled 46 stops and now has 89 saves in two WCHA contests. Butters finished with 23 for Minnesota. 
"A game like this can really mean a lot," said Smith. "It can turn things around for a team. The players had a lot to think about: everyone in Minneapolis was talking about the Gophers being No. 1 and it is always tough playing in the Williams Arena." 
Notre Dame goalie Dave Laurion also was outstanding Friday despite the 4-2 loss. He totaled 34 saves, 1 7 in the last period when the Gophers threatened to blow the game· open. 
Humphreys had given the Irish a 1-0 lead at 1:18 of the first period, but that was to be the only advantage ofthe night. Bart Larson and Neal Broten scoredat4:03 and 13:39 fora2­1 Minnesota lead after the first period. 


• 

~~()f1tScJ3==r==i=~&!jS=~===========================M=o=n=d=ay=,=N=o=ve=l~b=e=r=l0=,=1=98=0=-==IP:ag=e~7
by Tht: Ohren•cr ,wd The A.rmdated Pre·" 
• 

Armv ticket refunds for Notre Dame or St. Mary's siudents who ordered an individual game ticket for the October 18 game and did not pick up that ticket are available in the form of cash refunds during the hours of 9-5 
p.m. Monday through Friday at the Gate 10 Box Office Window. Students may pick up their refund during the month of November. The last day refunds will be issued will be Wednesday, November 26 (the day bef?re T~nksgiving b.reak). Presentation ofyour student ID cards IS requued to obtam the cash refund. 
Lacrosse olaxers that still have equipment should bring it to Itich 0 Leary's office on Wednesday from 2-4 p.m. 
women interested in playing lacrosse should contact Nuala Byrne at 232-3656. Play is open to both Notre Dame and St. Mary's women and no previous experience is necessary. 
Dr. Tom Kellyandtheinterhallofficeare looking for students to referee the upcoming interhall basketball season. This is a paid position and interested students are asked to call61 00 as soon as possible. Officiating clinics will begin shord· 
Student basketball tickets may be picked up at the second floor ticket window ofthe ACC from 8:30a.m. ' u:-ttil4:30 p.m. according to the following schedule: Seniors, today;Juniors and graduate students, tomorrow; Sophomores, Wednesdav, Nov. 12; and Freshmen, Thursday, Nov. 13. From Friday, Nov. 14, until Wednesday, Nov. 19, students who are not able to pick up tickets on scheduled days may get their tickets. Any tickets unclaimed by Nov. 19 will be forfeited by the student and a refund rendered. There will be a limit offour ID's per pick up. Because ofa high demand for tickets this year some juniors have been lotteried into the bleacher section. A list of juni<Jrs with bleacher seats was published in the Friday, Nov. 7, Observer. Any student interested in purchasing tickets for the Nov. 20 game with the Polish National Team may do so at the Gate 10 box office today through Nov. 14. On Nov. 17 unpun hased student tickets for that game will go on sale to the general 1)ublic. 
The interhall six-mile run will be~--------------· 
1

held on Saturday, November 15 at 10 a.m. The course will be Bu~11 
•:ntirely on the Notre Dame campus utilizing the golfcourse, I 'J lake trails and campus roads. Notre Dame undergraduates, 1 xraduates, faculty and staff may enter. Separate divisions for ! Ob cz ifi d 
men and WOmen in each Category (undergraduate, graduate, I rerver asst "1/e s 
faculty, and staff) will be set up. If you wish to run, you must J It 
come to the interhall office (C-2) in the ACC to complete 
insurance and entry forms before Wednesday, November 12. 1............................. 
EAST 
Army 47, Air Force 24 Boston U. 2B, Connecticut 24 Colgate 17, Bucknell 14 Cornell 24, Yale 6 Dartmouth 48, Columbia 0 Harvard 24, William & Mary 13 Massachusetts 17, Holy Cross 13 Navy 6. Syracuse 3 New Hampshire 26. Lafayette 6 Penn St. 21, N. Carolina St. 13 
Pittsburgh 41, louisville 23 
Princeton 24, Maine 7 Villanova 34. Penn 3 W. Virginia 41, Temple 28 
SOUTH 
Alabama 28. Louisiana Sl. 7 Appalachian St. 16, VMI 16, tie Auburn 31, S. Mississippi 0 
Austin Peay 24. Murray St. 0 
E. Tennessee St. 28, James Madison 23 
E. Kentucky 48, Tennessee Tech 7 Florida St. 31, Virginia Tech 7 
Furman 21. Davidson 7 
Georgia 26, Florida 21 Georgia Tech 3, Notre Dame 3., tie Grambling St. 1tl, Alabama St. 12 Jackson St. 50, Texas Southern 7 Kentucky .H, Vanderbilt 10 McNeese St. 45, Louisiana Tech R Miami, Fla. 23, E. Carolina 10 Mississippi Val. 29. Alcorn St. 17 N. Carolina 24, Clemson 19 NE Louisiana 40, Mississippi Col. 22 NW Louisiana 21. Nicholls St. 14 Rut~ers 19. Virginia 17 S. Carolina 45, Citadel 24 Tn.-Chattanooga 39. W. Carolina 14 Wake Forest 27. Duke 24 
MIDWEST 
Ball St. 34. Kent St. 7 Cent. Michigan 32. Bowlin!( Green I 0 Cincinnati 14, Memphis St. I 0 Drake 17, Nebraska-Omaha 0 Fresno St. 31, S. Illinois 14 Illinois St. 15, E. Michigan 7 Miami, Ohio 34. W. Michi~an 24 Michigan 24, Wisconsin 0 Michigan St. 42, Northwestern I 0 Minnesota 31. Indiana 7 Missouri 14. Iowa St. 10 
~-------------·--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------_, 
All elass•fa~d ads must hP rece•vec1 by 4 45 p m twn days prror •o the 
•S"iLJP •n wt11ch Hw ad •s run. The Observer offtce will acc:ept cl.l~Stf•e<1s 
Ml>nftdv Ttvnuyh Fnday. 10.00 am 'o 5·00 p m All clas!>•f•t~ds fTllJSI bt.>
Classifieds 
~llt'·p,ml r•1;her .n !JillSOn or lhrough the mdll 
LOST: High school class ring, while li",.IN'J'I'.I> Occcasslonal baby­Holash ol the Ozarks 
1'.\'J'RA 'J'fiRRRSTRIAL BRINGS Do you drool over 16 year old girls? 
gold with dark green stone. Lost In sitter lor prot, 2·yr old daughter. 1 College lor the Cluelan
COMING FOR THE AIR FORCE GAME· 
tree area In Irani ol LaFortune. II mile from campus. Call 6514 days Studs does. 

[____ NOTICES _] 
I DON'TWANTTO UPSET THEM BY NOT "Molarity: On the Road to Selling.found, please call Anne at 3433. or 288-6428 evenings. 
HAVING TIX READY. I NEED 4 STUDENT For all those lnlersested In running Out" will be out this week. Auto­;real sentimental value.
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student Anyone who has pictures ol the OR GA TIX FOR THAT BIG, CHALLEN­lor Student Senate: there will be a graph party, Thurs., 3 to 5, In 1oan1 $20·$200. One percent Country Rock Jam l'Uo:ASF. call GING CONTEST. C;l/.l.j11h11 "' 1947. Mandatory Meeting TODAY at 8:00 LaFortune basement. 
OUND: WOMAN'S WATCH, TUESDAY Interest. Due In 30 days. One day liGHT AT PIPPIN AUDITIONS IN John Higgins at8553 or 8661. 
HM/ I on the second lloor ol LaFortune. 
wall. Open M·F 11:30·12:30. OJ'ORTUNE BALLROOM. CALL PAUL IMAGINATIVE LITERATURE 1978 Call SOUTHERN N.D. GRAD DIRELY NEEDS Mikey -Happy Birthday, we love Hey Andy, Kevin, Jim and the rest c 
ND/SMC PHOTOGRAPHERS: I need ~16 AND IDENTIFY. Marilyn@ 1311 1 TO 10 GA ALABAMA/N.D. TICKETS. ya. Beth, Terese, Ann and ol course, the Howard Hall B-ball A-learr camera lime · do you need a )UNO: a male mixed-breed puppy, WILL PAY FAIR PREMIUM PRICE, CALL ~ally 
Champs, Good luck this year as Ride to Mps./SI.Paul or west lor 
you go lor the halIrick. I wish I could
model? Call 7344. >II-while with some tan In the Eddy COLLECT AT 504-927-6793. Doug, you wild and crazy guy, we
Thanksgiving Can leave 4:30 on be there to see II all come true.

a. area around Logan Center

Experienced typist will do typing In Tues. Will share more than the usual I need 1 GA Air Force ticket lor my can't help loving youl Happy 191hll Your biggest tan In Portland
Nednesday night, Nov.5, call 232­lillie brother! I'm a senior, and this Is

her home. Convenient to NO. VInce 1'4666 The Gopher Girls P.S. Who's gonna keep slats lhla
~140

Recently completed typing ot dis­his last chance -please help. Call year?
wanted: drumer lor rock/jazz group. CONNIE,

sertation. References available. LOST: One woollsh-type grey knee­4-1-5792. Must be willing to practiceand own CHEER UP ALL IS NOT AS BAD AS Who's the tall, short-haired guy who
272-7623. •ock In the vicinity at Regina South 
One student Air Force ticket OVERSEAS JOBS · Summer/year needed lor best friend from U. ol 
his set. Call Shawn 8275 or Luls3045. YOU THINK, lfS WORSE! eats breakfast In C and rides theat SMC. Has deep sentimental FROM YOUR FELLOW DEPRESSEE! bike with the yellow pack? The tall,value. Reward. II you've Into con­
round. Europe, S. Amer., Australia. Illinois. Call Diane at (41) 5152. "LIGHTFINGERS" short-haired girl who stared at youcerning It's recovery, call Diane atAsia. All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. 
Need Alabama tickets desperately. In the library last Wed. wants to
(41) 5152. Jane, Commodore, Brown, Roses
Sightseeing. Free Into. Write: IJC, 
Call Dave or Joe @ 1728 or 1605. meet you.
[FOR SALE I 

are red, Lemonsquares yellow, II
Box 52·1N4. Corona Del Mar, Ca. LOST -a pair ol brown women's I need one student tlx lor Air Force you don't go to 'Bama, I won't be The Morning Aller the Morning After:
92625. glasses with tinted sun lenses. Lost For Sale: Sony reclever and turn­
game. Call Beth at 4527. your fellow. (Today we will be talking about,/,.'"
Monday between LaFortune and

UGLY DUCKLING RENT-A-CAR table. Excellent condition. call234-Andy Williams m, the strange phenomenon we will 
the ACC. II found please call Beth at Need 2 or 4 Tlx lor Alabama. Call

THANKSGIVING SPECIAL. 4 days. 2284 be talking about rl.. Jill'll... )
1715 or 277-8037. Stan 1942 SAVE THIS AD II HAIR BRAIDING at
$39.95 with 200 tree miles. Phone Anyway, llrst. thanks to Sue Kelleher,
Old comics tor sale, also baseball reasonable rates, lor formals
255-2323 lor reservations. John McGrath, Steve Swank and Pc
Need desperately 2 or 3 G.A. Tlx to

cards, paperbacks and hardbacks. parties. holidays. 291-8215 
Byrnes lor their many conlrlbutlom
Air Force game. Call Nancy 5771KINGS BOOKS, 2033 S. Michigan. and boundless help. Their ellorlsInstant cash paid lor ladles· and 
SMC. MOMMIE DEAREST: I HOPE YOU LIKEDmen' a clan rings. $20-$100 or more. 
Open Monday lhru Saturday 9:30-6. were mooseterpieces. Man1
ELVIS. I AM STILL ALIVE AND DOING
We make house calls. Also buying FOR RENT 
Need 3 AF tlx, Student or G.A. Call regards to Finns and the rest lor lh• 
other gold llama 255-2402. 2 USC tickets tor sale Call607 256 234-6351. WELL. LOVE, ED 
use ol your humble abode ­FOR RENT: Ugly Duckling l?eni-A­6979 PITTA, Sorry to hearyou'reslck. Hope hope the girls are out ol the ollie.
Found: Calculator all _campus. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR FOR GOODCar. Priced from $7.95 a day and to see you up and around soon. We (And that some others stay in the
Call 289-5109 to Identity. 'BAMA TIX PLEASE CALL JEFF FOR 
seven cents a mile. Phone 255-2323 miss your smiling lacell closet.) Beth. Ann. Patty and Mary,
INFO. NEED THEM DESPERATELY SO

PART TIME JOB. Ideal lor Students tor reservations. TICKETS LOVE. your gill will be worn lallhlully and
PLEASE CALL.

Telephone work from our olllce THE OLD GANG FROM FIRST NORTH lusllulty-by someone. Carol, Lynn 
FOR RENT: Elllclency apt. In elegant

(Evening hours) Call Nancy 232· Needed: 2-8 Alabama Tlx. Call and Janna -Maxi Is the new Man· 
old house near campus. Call Vern Desperately need 3 STU or GA Air DEAR MINDY,
8956 Gregg at277-7296 day mascot. Thanks to everyone else "-'881 or 287-3132. Force tickets. I have lots ol MONEY! I FOUND THE PUCK. 
tor gills. About the punch what can be I Room In furnished house near NO
TYPING! Fast, accurate, close by. 4 KEN 8583 DESPERATELY NEED THREE STUDENTTIX JOHN sold about a concoction ol three years' experience. Call 272-4105 Apls $65 mqnth.Call 3881 or 287-FOR AIR FORCE. CALL 4375 (from fisher who's also In your math 
rums. vodka. champagne. and J.B. Air Force GAs and Students knows what else. Has John cor's
after 5 p.m. class)
6234 DINESH or KASH needed Call 6251 or 1040 NEED 2 GA TIX TO AIR FORCE GAME rump cooled ott yel7 Any bruises NOV. 22; ~L~ASt CALL JENNIFER AI 
Rachal? Rust how does an old man like 
FOR THE HOLIDAYS; SUPER HAIRCUTS. Mlkey A., Welcome to the 22 clubll
Apt. lor renl.$50.00 month. Near 277-8760.

NEED 4 GAs lor AIR FORCE GAME. you keep II up? Anything In the punch 
Also my special Hennalucent Wish J.T. a Happy 22nd lor me.
school. lmmedlale.233-1329 Call Susan B. -6945 Ortman? I'm sorry your mission ol sal· organic conditioner. SoH subtle NEED 'BAMA TICKETS!Ill CALL CHRIS. okay? Or beHer yet, maybe I'll just vollon lolled Rich. Moura have you highlights, and extra shine. SAllS· Wish to sublet 4 person NO apt. lor Needed 2 Student Or GA Tickets AT 3283. give him a big kiss todaytl How tapped on any windows lately? Beware FACTION GUARANTEED. Cut, style. second semester. $90 eachh•anth For Air Force. Please Call Mike at about II? ol Elleen"hotllngers"Murphy. Jeanne, annalsis only $7. Ladles tree curling. plus share utilities. Secure; 10 
Need 4 or 5 GA's lor Air Force... loa bad you were saddled with a pair
3828 I love you
DESPERATELVIII Please call Kalan at ot "poops". Dove, your gill shall slayAsk anyone. Call KIM at Armando's. minute walk to campus. Call 233-------­
Patricia close to me. Leslie. Patty, Buzz. ano l!77·0615. 2631 -----P.S. Here's ag·day personal lc Mary, your gtnwas delicious-or so Iwa'Need Air Force tlx...WIII pay bucks! 8731 
Call Larry...1816 

Need 2 Air Force GA tickets. Call fold by those who Indulged In II. Tu
Chief, too: Happy 22nd, Chlelllll everyone else, thanks tor making atUrgently need many Air Force Mike 233-4486. 
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING TO Dl. oxparlence that I shall always reG.A.'s. Call Jim at 1412. 
NEED 4 AIR FORCE TICKETS. WILL PAY member. I love you all, lake care, and 
ILOST/FOUND \l--1_w_A_N_TE_o___.l 
CUSS SECESSION FROM INDIAN 
g,•t reody lor next year.
TOP DOLLAR. CALL JOHN 1629.

I NEED 4 AIR FORCE TICKETS AND SUBSEQUENT!Y 'THESE' UNITEL.
1 .iYM"DA dQl"llecltr!qppet_
FOUND: Bracelet at Beaux-Arts Need a Ride to St. Louts and back TOGETHER. CALL 3245 
STATES IN LIGHT OF TUESDAY'S UN·
NEED AIR FORCETIXCALL LARRY 1166 

Ball. Identity at Architectural Bldg. on the weekend ol November 15. FORTUNATE TURN OF EVENTS. TO Bl
HELP! Rich uncle needs 2 GA tlx to

olllce. Will share usual. Call Gary at1030. NEED 3 A.F. GA TIX FOR UNCLE WHO HELD TUES. NOV. 11 AT 1:1:05 a.m. IN Ryan-cat:Alabama. please call 284-5179. 
HAS NEVER SEEN A N.D. GAME CALL THE MAIN QUAD...BRING KAZOOS.

FOUND Thursday before break In DESPERATELY need a ride to Thanks lor the "cultural awaken­
JIM 8103 rm. 101 Buslness-Admln. Bldg.: dark WASHINGTON D.C. AREA lor Thanks­Ing" Saturday night -a regular
HELP! NEED 2 G.A. OR STUDENT TIX BPC/QEII/M?S 
FOR AIR FORCE. CALL TONY AT 3191. -------------­
blue umbrella. Call Mary at 1256. giving vacation. Would like to leave "freshman orientation" to 7'/J<•
HI CHRISIII

... Tuesday. Call Mike at 1601. NEED 4 BAMA TIX. CALL BRIEN 1416 11/i.rcrl'crl Now maybe I can start my LOST: Pair ol glasses near Eng. Aud, 
Heeeyy Alan, awn rumors... 1
I PERSONALS

Fri., Oct. 31. Please call Suzanne@ WANTED; Ride toAib-Syr, N.Y. area NEED MANY TICKETS TO AIR FORCE. 
Love. AnneH R. , 41·4518 It you lind lhem.lcan'heef lor T-glvlngl Dick (1224) GA PREFERED. CALL TIM AT 1650 
-------------------____________________....-..._ -..... 

SRQrts; 
To Georgia Tech 
Irish suffer 3-3 'loss' 
by Craig Chval Courey after throwing his se­to win when they smothered Sports Writer .cond interception of the game Tech tailback Ronnie Cone on on Notre Dame's first posses­fourth-and-one at the Yellow 
ATLANTA -Only a school sion of the third quarter. Jackets' 48 with 1:21 to play. with a 1-7 record could consider Devine explained that he Kiel, back in the game to run a .3-3 tie the biggest wi!-1. of its made the move to Courey in the shotgun, threw to Pete season. But that certainly was attempt to to counter the Tech Holohan for six yards on se­the case Saturday as Georgia 5-2 defense, which usually had cond-and-ten, but was sacked Tech stunned top-ranked seven men on the line of scrim­for 16 yards on the following "Jotre Dame on Grant Field. mage. play. 
The deadlock no doubt will Courey rushed five times for Rather than risk turning the he accompanied by an eviction 28 yards, including a nifty 20-ball over to Tech on his own 42, notice. throwing Notre Dame yard pickup against tte grain. Devine elected to punt. 17-0-1) out of the high-rent dis­He also completed four ofeight "We felt that they would trict it occupied for but a week. passes for 45 yards. But once throw the ball to try to win, and 
Immediately, cries that the again, turnovers stif;ed the that we had a chance to get the l rish had been caught looking Notre Oame attack. ball back," said Devine, while .thead to Alabama surfaced. But "I honestly don't know who adding that the Irish had all rd a nMn. the Irish denied the will start for us next week," three timeouts remaining. 
ch.uges. Devine said after the game. Freshman quarterback Ken 
·-rd like to give the Georgia "We'll have to look at the films Whisenhunt, playing in his first Tech team credit for a great and see what kinds of th·ings game ever in place of injured Lffort." said Notre Dar:1e head Alabama's defense does." starter Mike Kelley, threw in­'oach Dan Devine. "To dwell Saturday's game also narked complete on first down, and was 1111 our turnovers and mistakes the return of sophomore tail­sacked by Pat Kramer on sec­would detract from their effort. back Phil Carter, who missed ond. But Notre Dame was pen­
''By the same token, don't four games with a stverely alized for offsides on third think that they gave any more bruised thigh suffered against down, enabling Tech to run out ,.ffort than our players. We Michigan State. the clock. were outexecuted and out­Devine waited until the third After all, they already had coached." quarter to use Carter, and he their win. 
Indeed, to say that Notre admitted he was hoping that he Dame had its mind in Birming­would give the club an emo­ham would be grossly mislead­tional lift. But Carter managed ing. The Irish played with e­oqly 16 yards in seven tries and motion, but just couldn't put it coughed the ball up twice. 

Notre Datne splits with Gophers
together. Notre Dame's bruising 

•
The explanations, however, ground attack, which entered 

didn't come so easily. by Brian Beglane have played so far," said Min­weekend," said Irish coach
the game ranked ninth nation­

Sports Writer nesota coach Brad Buetow, Lefty Smith. "We certainly
The shock of the game was ally in rushing offense with 286 reflected on the players' faces in yards per game, was limited to whose team also has faced showed we can get up and go 
MINNEAPOLIS-The only North Dakota and Michigan when we have to. We skated
the lockerroom. While Tech 138yards on 43 carries. fans noisily celebrated their vic­The Irish passing game just time the Notre Dame hockey Tech. even with them and we showed team did not skate even with Good enough, in fact, to a lot of character by coming
tory outside, the Irish sat couldn't shoulder the burden. 

motionless, staring blankly at Notre Dame was an amazing 1-Minnesota this weekend was come away from the Twin Cities from behind the way we did the walls.· Even Devine was for-14 in third down conver­when the two teams were not with a split ofthe WCHA series. Saturday." stunned, referring to •Notre sions. even-that is, when the Sophomore center Kirt Bjork The Irish appeared to fold 
Dame's "loss" on more than Offensive tackle Phil Pozde­Gophers had the power play. turned in the best performance early in the third period after one occasion during his post­rac was at a loss to explain When it was six-on-six, how­of his career Saturday with his the stellar goaltending of soph­game press conference. Notre Dame's sudden inability ever, theNo. 1 ranked Gophers first hat trick to lead the Irish omore Bob McNamara helped 
found an equal match in the back from a two-goal, third­them enter the final stanza tied
A gutty defense gave Notre t~ move the ball. period deficit and hand Min­3-3. McNamara totaled 38 saves 
Dame more than enough "In the third quarter we c<ime fast-skating, forcchecking chances to turn defeat into out and moved the ball pretty Irish. And although much ofthe nesota its first loss of the year. in the first 40 minutes and did victory. well, but mistakes hurt us" he sellout crowd of 7, 7 5o here at The Gophers skated to a 4-2 not receive consistent support The Irish limited Tech to just said. "Usually, the kind of de­the Williams Arena still may triumph in the series opener from his teammates on the blue eight first downs and 140 yards fense they played creates a lot of have felt the Gophers were No. Friday and remain atop the line all night. 
Twenty-two ofhis saves came
of total offense. But five turn­movement and every once in a 1 after Notre Dame's dramatic WCHA with a 5-1 record (6-1 overs cost Notre Dame its while you can get the big-gain­6-5 victory Saturday, the Irish overall). Notre Dame is now 2-2 in the first period when he nu'mber-one ranking. er. But it just didn't happen.. left the clear impression that in the league and 4-4 overall blanked the Gophers and kevin 
The miscues also may have They didn't throw any surprises they are a force to be reckoned heading into this weekend's Humphreys and]effLogangave 
cost freshman quarterback at us. We were prepared -we with this year in the Western series at second-place Wiscon-the Irish a 2-0 lead on goals at Blair Kiel his starting job. He just didn't execute." Collegiate Hockey Association. sin. was replaced by senior Mike The Irish had one final chance "They are the best team we "It was a very gratifying (continued on page 6) 

St. Ed's , Grace advance to finals 
An interhall football first will occur next Sunday afternoon 
(2: 15 p.m. on Cartier Field) as two teams living under thesame roof will vie for the men's title now vacated by 1979 champ .'\1orrissey. 
Displaced St. Ed's, with 1/3 of its population residing tempor­.trily in Grace Hall, with an un­blemished 5-0 record will meet Grace, also 5-0, in next Sun­day's finale. 
Both squads, relying on the same ingredients-strong de­fense and an effective pass at­tack, advanced through the semifinal round, St. Ed's de­feating wildcard entry Off­Campus 8-0 and Grace edging Cavanaugh 12-6 in overtime, with plenty of difficulty yest­erday afternoon on Cartier. 
In the opener, St. Ed's cap­italized on four Off-Campus turnovers and ran its unscored upon streak to five games. After a scoreless first half-both teams missing field goal at­tempts, St. Ed's came out throwing in the third quarter. 
Quarterback Dave Kaple, working from the shotgun, hit tight end John Paraskns for 12 yards over the middle on the first play from scrimmage. From his own 47, the senior signal-caller found Paraskos all alone at the Off-Campus 20. Paraskos slipped one tackle and raced into the end zone for the 53-yard scoring play. Halfback Glenn Gurtcheff then took an option toss around right end for the two-point conversion and an 8-0 lead. 
Off-Campus right back, driv­ing to the St. Ed's 12 with strong rushing from Pete Raphael and Glenn Vaccaro, but on 3rd and six quarterback Matt Huffman fumbled on a quarterback 
sneak and turned the ball over. 
The defense held and Off­
Campus put together a 15-play 
drive from their own 19. How­
ever, on 4th and two at the St. 
Ed's 12 with 1:18 to play, 
Raphael fumbled and time ran 
out for Off-Campus. 
"They (Off-Campus) didn't blitz like they did the first time we played them," said Kaple, "And we were able to move the ball a lot better. We also had some of our injured players back, like Glenn (Gurtcheff), and that helped." 
Grace nearly dug an early hole against Cavanaugh, as two fumbles cost one touchdown and gave away another in the first half. The first turnover led to a 10-play, 37-yard drive by Cavanaugh that resulted in a Mike Chandler touchdown 
(continued on page 6) 

Players of the Game 
by The Observer 

Defensive Player of the Game-Stacy Torann, a freshman corner back that intercepted an errant Tech pass and returned it 10 yards. Honorable Mention-Bo·b Crable, Scott Zettek and Pat Kramer. 
Offensive Player of the Game-Pete Holohan, the Irish flanker who caught 5 passes for a total of63 yards. Holohan also completed a 31-yard pass to Tim Tripp; however, the play was re­called on a clipping penalty. 



