
... Convention -pages 7-10 
..-------­
VOL. XV, NO. 5 an independem srudem newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's FRIDAY, AUGUST 29, 1980 
For Corby's 
ABC delays license renewal 



by john M. Higgins 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indiana 1\BC delayed a decision on the renewal of the liquor license of Corby's Tavern Thursday after an attorney for the city of South Bend issued a continuence in the hearings. A new hearing has been scheduled for Sept. 30. 
Assistant City Attorney ) ames Masters asked for the continuance in order to give him an opportUnity to answer to accusations by Corby's Ta­vern (CTI), Inc. Secretary 

Room designs reflect personalities 
By Mike O'Brien 

A random survey of residence halls around campus shows that bars and lofts still dominate the interior tastes of ND students, and that these furnishings are more plush and highly crafted than in recent years. 
Students interviewed on both quads remarked that more and better planning and construction is evident, as the rooms that students call home for nine months _of the year slowly take on their inhabitants' personality. 
Stanford Hall residents proudly point to their "country club" bar in room 331 as an example of such workmanshi?. Designed by sophomoreJim Smith, the eight-foot-long bar is wood panelled, lined by soft, black vinyl bumper pads, and capped by a two-tone, wood parkay top. 
The bar is the centerpiece of a party room that includes plush tan carpeting, a plaid sofa, and self-standing wooden beams on the room's outer fringes. The set-up is made visible by a dimmer-controlled spot light focused on the bar area. A model clipper ship with light flowing from its tiny windows sits in a place of honor above the couch. 
Sorin residents boast of the "biggest bar on campus" with their ten by four by two foot mammoth structure, which dominates the decor ofturret room 315. The room's colorful lighting system, collected by sophomore Steve Dressel, includes a huge traffic signal from the streets of South Chicago. 
Ernie Menold and Mark Burton in Howard room 410 have made efficient use ofspace with a panelled corner bar lit by a stained glass billiard lamp and enhanced with a dog "poker­face" tapestry. 
[photos by Phil johnson] 

Harold Rowley said that Cor­by's is a victim of a conspiracy by South Bend city officials who collect signatures for a petition by residents of the northeast neighborhood oppo­sing renewal. 
The hearing before the state ABC stems from the local ABC reccomendation last April that the state agency ABC not renew Corby's liquor license. According to South Bend city attorney Richard Hill that re­commendation was based upon several arrests of Corby's pa­trons for underage drinking, 

There are numerous quality lofts on campus. Farley room 225, home ofJulie Middleton~ Zaida Avila, and Kathy N eilon, reveals a loft of very skilled woodwork. The structure is double stained and held together by wooden bolts. Black painted nailheads add to the beds' rusticity. Neilan's mac­rames add to the room's attractiveness. 
Floyd Woods and Tim Chen ofSorin room 245 have a loft rising twelve feet above the floor. The only problem is they haven't built a ladder yet and as a neighbor describes it, they must play chimpanzee to reach their beds. 
A multi-level loft with a carpeted ladder and a bay window­panelled love seat highlight the richly decorated Dillon room 254 of juniors Chris Kenmore, Bob Cronin, and Dave O'Neill. One Dillon RA describes it as a 'Park Avenue apartment." 
Many room furnishings across campus are expensive and unique. Examples range from Stanford 342's false ceiling to Mike Bruggeman's (Howard 415) vibrator chair with three speeds and three temperature settings. 
Although plushness dominates campus decor this year, there _are also bizarre and risque styles of decoration. 
The doorsign from Farley room 212 displays the latter mode by proclaiming "MEN FOR SALE." App.:rently food sales is too boring for some people. _ 
Sorin residents characterize as bizarre the enormous tube shaped mobile that has hung in room 245 for five years. The room walls are painted in red, orange, and purple stripes patterned both straight and twisted like DNA molecules. 
Apparently, the unique Sorin room is too unique for junior Pete Kaneb, who plans to wipe out the historical room with his trusty can of white paint. 
the arrest of a Corby bartender for serving alcohol to minors, and numerous complaints by residents of the surrounding neighborhood about noise and trash enunanating from the bar. 
In appealing their reco­mendatton, Corby's attorney contended that minors entered the bar using false ID's and en was therefore not respon­sible. 
Corby manager ) im Myers outlined procedures for check­ing ID' s. Myers said everyone who enters the bar is carded either by himselfor the barten­ders on duty. 'I start with the assumption that every ID is false,' he said. 'And I take it from there.' 
Under cross examination, Masters asked Myers if he carded everyone who comes into the bar. 'Yes,' he respon­ded. 
Masters: 'Then how do you explain six arrests last year for underage drinking?' Myers: 'They had good ID' s. 
Myers continued, describing the kinds of false identification used from altered ND student IDs to forged drivers' licenses. 
One girl had used her cou­sin's birth certificate to obtain a Michigan driver's license,' Myers said. 'The police had to call Notre Dame to verify her real age.' 
Rowley testified that he had helped set up ID checking poltcies through experience with other bartenders, but Myers has raised it from an art 
. ' 
to a sCience. 
In his testimony Rowley a­ccused Mayor Roger Parent, the city attorney's office and other city officials with harrass­ment and conspiracy to close Corby'S. Rowley described an incident in which Robert Pot-· vin, former investigator with the IRS ' and at present an administrative assistant to Parent, allegedly declared that Corby's would never be able to renew its liquor license. 
The incident allegedly oc­curred while Potvin was wor­king for the IRS. 'He was here to serve a summons,' Rowley said. Then at some point during the conversation, 'he said that he'd see that we would never be able to renew our licenses,' Rowley said. 'He conducted what I felt to be a harrassment campaign.' 
Rowley said that he could not remember the date on which the conversation alleged­ly took place. 
Rowley also claimed that he had been told that Parent had ordered 500 arrests to be made by South Bend police at the Eddy street bars on St. Pat­rick's Day. He said that 'beat officers' had indicated that it was a matter offact that Parent was responsible for a St. Patrick's Day crackdown. 
Masters: Were any arrests made at any of the local bars on St. Patrick's Day? 
[cont. on page 5] 

News Brie/§ 
Frid8y,August29,t9so-page2 
====~==========================================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 

Inside Friday 
President Carter, in an unprecedented move, directed the Federal Department of Energy to post­pone the signing ofa $12.6 million contractfor the designofa synthetics fuels plant in Baskett, Kentucky. State officials blamed the postponement on a dispute between the W.R. Grace Co., developers ofthe $4 billion plant, and the Council on Wage and Price Stability. saying that the Grace Co. failed to comply with the President's anti-inflation guidelines. The grant would help pay for the design ofthe plant that within a three-year period could produce over 50,000 barrels of synthetic unleaded gasoline a day. 
A strike leader called for a briefmoratorium on new Polish labor walkouts to give the government time to reconsider its opposition to independent unions. The strikers said no other issues would be negotiated until that question is settled. The strikes, which began over two weeks ago, center around workers' demands for wage increases, free trade unions and freedom of the press. 
A strike leadercalled for a brief morator­ium on new Polish labor walkouts to give the government time to reconsider its opposition to independent uriions. The ntrikers said no other issues would be negotiated until that question is settled. The strikes, which began over two weeks ago, centeraround workers' demands for wage increases, free trade unions and freedom of the press. 

-

The 52 Americanhostagesiniranhave reached their 300th day in captivity with pressure growing for the Iranian parliment to determine the fate of the captives. A Tehran radio broadcast said that a prominent member of the parliment called on his fellow deputies to make a "'speedy investigation and decision"' on the Americans. Jalali, a representative from a province in North­eastern Iran, was quoted as saying that regarding the captives as "spy hostages" was not in Iran's interest. 
Indiana governorotisR.Bowenhasno plans to reimburse the state for tax money spent onlegal fees for two state officials who were recently the targets of a Federal grand jury inquiry. Despite a sharply worded com­plaint from Attorney General Theodore L. Sendek, Bowen maintains that the fees were properly paid out of the contingency fund, according to the governor's Executive Assistant William Watt. In his letter to Bowen, Sendek complained that he was not told that the governor had used tax money to hire counsel for two ofhis former employees. The Attorney General also insisted that when public officials require representation in criminal matters, they must hire lawyers at their own expense. 
East is west and west is west, but sometimes the twain does meet. Neiman-Marcus is coming to New York and Abercrombie & Fitch has gone to Dallas. Neiman's will open its New York area branch this week with its mer­chandise being catered to the "very affluent but with well­educated and conservative tastes." The price range, ac­»cording to a Neiman spokesman, will be from "medium to high"-with plenty ofgift items available to $100,000 plus. 
Partlv cloudy todayandSaturdaywith a chance of afternoon and evening showers. Temperatures will range to highs in the upper 80s to lows in the upper 60s. The forecast for Sunday calls for continued verv warm with a 
chance of thunderstorm. 
__..:.;.._··...,·_,.;..·-----------------------------------------=-·-'--------------­

Airing out some "dirty laundry" 
School is started, orso the cruel rumorgoes, not one dayago butfour! Ifthis is the case, andI have every reason to believe it is (basing my estimate on the frequency with which the "Notre Dame Marching Band" parades below my office win­dow) then I am in deep trouble already, having b~rely register~d and ... well, why should I air my duty laundry tn public. Speaking of which, do you know that ifyou live offcampus you have to do your own laundry. I've waited a number of days now and there it still sits: dirty. Drag. 
Now I'm not opposed to doing laundry -far from it. It's just that three years of campus life has taught me that ifl throw my bundle ofwash down on Thursday, I may retrieve it clean on Monday. No strings attached. 
ButI have not come here to talk ofclasses I'm missing or laundry I'm neglecting, nor am I here to talk about Alice (you remember Alice). I'm hefe to talk about my original subject from the lead paragraph: rumors. 
Hopefully one thing you will be able to count on from the Inside column is insight. Insight into news stories and insight into rumor. Today, I shall give you both. 
First, the news story. You may notice on page one a story telling you everything you wanted to know about Corby's legal woes. It would have told you even more, had we not cut off the voluminous text we received from our reporter, 
John Higgins, who is right now in Indianapolis finding out what's up. I made a trek last night to Corby's to do the same (no kidding) and my conversation with Jim Myers, affectionately known as Oscar, was somewhat strained, what with The Doors blasting and Oscar worriedly checking the IDs ofgrey-haired potential agents of the law. 
Oscar explained to me many things, the last of which was this: if what he explained to me were printed, he could be cited for contemptofcourt. That's OK. I didn't understand what he was saying anyway ... the music was too loud. Suffice it to say Oscar looked in good health and good spirits, but sympathy cards may be in order. Go down and see him this weekend. Unless you're not 21. 
But alas, I've spent too much time here in the office and not enough checking outsuch stories. There are others I would check out ifl could just get away from these computers. And that brings us to our rumor. 


. ·: . ... l . ' . 
" " ·~ . 
~
.... 
~~-._.~ < 
. . ._-:: ~-. 
..........~ ,.· -·:·· , 
~-.,. ~,. 

I really hate to call this a rumor, but just to be fair I will note that my information is sec­ondhand from a senior staff reporter and my sports editor. It seems as though the Athletic Department has hired a female trainer (name witheld) to work on athletes in general. Pro­gressive_, huh? 
But wait, there's a story here. We found out that the young woman was being somewhat inhibited in her duties. Reportedly she was "not to touch" male football players (something that is necessary ifone is to be a genuine trainer) and, to further muddy matters, she was not "invited" to sit at the training table. 
It should be noted in behalf of the athletic department that all this information was denied· rather vehemently, and that the next day the woman not only •"touched" male athetes but was-ah, every girl's fondest dream-invited to the training table. The chow, reportedly;was good. 
I do not intend to deal in rumors or come off 
sounding catty. My point in bringing all dirty 
laundry out in the open is simply that it's funny. 
Itis funny that in 1980 there shouldbe problems 
with women taping men's ankles (or vice versa). 
It is funny that on this campus sitting at a 
training table should become a political issue. It 
is funny that poor Oscar, a hard working, really 
decent sort of guy, should be getting an ulcer 
because some grey-haired bureaucrat is de­
termined to leap into office offhis considerable 
back, proving that he can rid the city of such 
debased establishments. And please, any es­
tablishment that serves cold beer and plays The 
Doors at only 9 p.m. is anything but debased. 
Thus it is proven that dirty laundry can be 
funny, but I have a stack ofit that seems to defy 
an easy laugh. Today is Friday, the weekend. I'll 
do it then. Unless, ofcourse, I spend too much 
time with Oscar. 
.THE 
MOTELS 
THURSDAY SEPTEMBER 11. 1980 8:00PM 
TICkels $8.50 and $7.50 
';Ot .A•AA&al At&, Ml·••~•·-:1 llea•l~JJ.~•; ,,. • ..,., .. (,....,,o,;. \'1., , ~-· ¥A'1 ..A.... \' "AW rM& ......llrl(.,, ltU•oUI' '=-·., ___ ,-~tel ~ "''>'* •.--.. -_..,... ..... ~.•4110."1oll'i'¥<''_"'"', 
,-,.. " 0 ' ........._ lllfl&. I• ~~;till '• >: 1•,.. ...~"'(,Allo 
______L_ 


-----~--~--~­

The Observer 
Football concessions schedule 
1910·1911 FOOTIALL CONCESSION STAND LOCATIONS 

SITE GAME GAME GAME C.\.'IF. ,;_\\1f PULDUE MICHIGAN Hit r"'r..• 
Sot._ _t .... .. ~~I ~:r '\gy ~ .. 
Wfllh S~•pC"r • far)("V Fid~ll"' 

I. SORIN HALL Fhher Hall St. Louis l'lb. 
:aha Gr.Jcr'

Z. ALUMNI KALL Kentucky Club ~•w Jersey Cib. 
3. DILLON HALL 4 • "CROSSROADS" 
~. AIE!II·PHI LLI PS/ 
FIEL-USE 
6. Cevanau.ah/Fieldhous~ 
7. LaFortune Center 
I. South Q\,lad Flae Pole 
9. 
O'Shauahnes,.y/Stadiu• 

10. 
Enaincerina luildina 

11. 
Fr. Sol'in's Statue 


ll. h.din tt.ll 
15. NorTissey 
14. North .ud/Cavanauah 
lS. Library leflectina Pool 
Senior Class  
A.J.E.S.E.C.  Waur Club  Polo  Sophoaon Class  ~cp Ral~y o-itu~/ancin • Irish  Jcston  nut- 
Soptloaon  Clan  Senior Class  Geolon C1 ub  .hinue StuJ nt \~:'0( .  .Juns•~r I  ··1.1 ...  


All groups having football 
·concession stands must pick up their packet in StudentActivities office today or tomorrow. The Student Activities Office 
will re-assign unclaimed spots to those clubs waiting on the list. If unable to pick up your packet, please call 7308 to verify your acceptance of concession stand. 
•


: _The Observer_ : 
: Needs Night and Day : : Technicjans • 
eWe are looking for people with an interest: 
• 
in learning how to operate our new e • typesetting computer • : No experience and or typing skills are • 

• 
necessary : e All afternoon positions and Sunday, · e • Wednesday, and Thursday nights • • are available • • Work one day a week or more • 


: This is a paid position I : 
• call Ann at 8661 to apply e 
.. 
--~-----------------------------------... 
Friday, August ·29,1980-page 3 
Oosecallin Nov. 


Manion sees a Reagan difference 

by Sue Keileher 

Republican Dan Manion, a Notre Dame graduate and state senator for Indiana's third dis­trict, spoke last night at the Young Republicans' organiza­tion expounding on the dif­ficulties facing the Republican Party in the upcoming election. 
Speaking in La Fortune, Manion was greeted by a large turnout of students. On the congressional level, Manion as­serted that John Brademas (D. Ind) is far too liberal for this country especially for his dis­trict. He then emphasized that although Brademas had won the previous election by only a small margin. John Hiler (R. lnd) would have to work doubly hard to offset his disadvantages 
The Observer needsSMCDayeditors I Contact Mary Leavitt at 8661 


FROM 795 A DAY AND 7' A MILE 
921 E Jefferson Blvd. Mishawaka 
255-2323 Hours 9-5 Sat. til noon 







MovE FOR 
KIDS 
of easy access to cash and in­cumbency. 
Manion then appealed to the students to provide that extra push on the "grass roots" level to insure a Republican victory. 
In the senatorial race, Manion acknowledged that Democratic Senator Birch Bayh is a form­idable oppenent for Republican candidate Dan Quayle. 
The senator then related the great odds which his own cam­paign has beat. Manion believes that Quayle could not have a similar victory, but maintained 
that the Republican Party sup­porters must have both full knowledge ar:d belief in the . 
convictions ot the Party plat­
The press, Manion said, is Ronald Reagan's greatest li­ability. The press' favorite, ap­prently, is John Anderson, but Manion asserted that the stands held by Reagan oncritical issues such as abortion, the economy and national defense are the most beneficial for this count­ry's "depressed state." 
During the question and an­swer period following his speech, Manion blamed Pres­ident Carter's lack of fortitude for the psychological malaise of the country and then called Carter "uninspiring." Despite
the Presid~nt's shortcomings, according to the senator, the presidential race will be close. 
He sought his audience's sup­port when he concluded with, 
form and its authors-if the "It's up to us to make the dif­GOP is to succeed. ference." 


~-~"'-~ 
Restaurant 

The Best in 
Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00 P.M. Closed Sundays & Holidays 
YouR CANS JERRY\_5 


Buo TH c-CArv ·MA.N WANTS To 11·ct K€ '/OUR OLD Al-UMltJUM CAIVS HELP flc;HI Museu LAR DYSTROPHY 
~:s '...>€6'>-<:.c•--:, T\otEA.E" ...-:r.E-'()1c.. C...O#JTA•~c.; r~~ . .:..i w~.:rvrv-~1 '-"'~ \lltJC Fl·•L 'V6u TO CILoP 0:FF-'leu~ l>S€0 ,:.\l.UI'"\1 oot--t 
c AIIV~. 

r~uc -:..·<=-<.oJ'"' ;~_..,;; V1q_ :...~:~v ..,-r€ .-1Lc 
Pflo t-EeDS FvA.. !.1-!l"' /l..e::. ·,..: :._ :··.:: ,..._l.~~~.,_·c__.M 70 f'IGJ..IT f"iL~Ct. '-"''" .? y $ 7 J'{ {> p 1-1 v . 

BRE 1'-\ E l'v 
J ~: 3 G£ n.T ltuDtz $~01 H ~Et...>D. 

I 
'I I 
I 
< 


../ 

Budweiser $9.19 
Colt 45 S8.69 
Falstaff $8.09 
Hamms $8.25 
Miller Sl0.09 
MillerUte S10A9 Old English S9.89 Old Milwaukee $8.64 
Olympia $9.39
.. 
"NEAR CAMPUS 
Pabst S7!J9 
storesopen9-9 

NEXTTOKROGER"
SChlitz S9.89 Schlitz Malt 510.09 Schoenling Uttle Kings $8.98 Schoenling Big .lag S8.29 

BEER SPECIALS KEGS 
win aweekaway... guessthe

241oosecans 
Y2brl

date &ti~ ne of our 1millionth Y4brl Pabst $5.79 customer and win a trip for two ·to , Las Vegas. Budweiser 537.00 522.50
Olympia 56.09 
Current count is 937,707 

Miller $6.79 Budweiser 56.59 
case Discount Policy 
liquor  Full case 10% Split case 5%  
wine  ' Mixed Case 15% Split Case 10%  

(some exceptions) 
Michelob $44.00  $24.50  
Strohs 535.00  $20.50  
Pabst 532.50  $20.50  

Old Milwaukee $24.98-IINDSPECIALII Miller $38.00 Miller Ute $38.00 
John O'Hanlon-Class of1965 Sponsor NO Volleyball Team 





WAREHOUSE LIQUORS 
, 

The Observer Friday, August 29, 1980.-page 5 
Ftrefighters injured 
Blaze levels Chicago complex 
f1l. §t?()t.1CJ ~IOO()rn 

CHICAGO (.AP) .. Fire· fighters continued yesterday to hose down the smoldering ruins of a South Side industrial complex ftre that was the largest blaze in the city in 13 years. 
The firefighters were ordered to put on oxygen masks after authorities learned that more than 2,000 drums of noxious chemicals may have been bur· ied in the ruins. 
Seven firefighters were in­jured in the blaze and one remained hospitalized Wednes­day. 
The blaze apparently broke out shonly before midnight ina five-story brick building for­merly occupied by a division of Tenneco Chemicals Inc. and quickly spread to an adjacent building. Three other buildings were also damaged by the fire. 
Larry Lai, an engineer for the Illi:tois Environmental Protec· cion Agency, said that earlier this year the building contained 2,300 55-gallon drums of chlor· inated hydrocarbon, which could produce noxious fumes. However, a Tenneco spokes­man said all chemicals · were removed when the company 

Oub 

applications due 
Clubs and organizations that wish to reserve space at Activities Night should comlete application forms in duplicate at the at Student Activities Office, 1st floor LaFortune. Deadline to sign up is Thursday. 

Fund-seekers pickup 
fortns 

All students, clubs, or~ni· zations and project persons who will be requesting:i'ft!dent a<.tivity funds, should pick up application forms in the Stu­dent Activity Office. The deadline for returning applica­tions and applying for funds is Monday, Sept. 15. 
... ABC 

[~ont. from page 1) 
Rowley:Not to my knowledge. 

However, Detective Sargeant James Szlay of the South Bend Police Department testified that he had received orders not to go out of his way to arrest Eddy street bar patrons on St. Patrick's Day in order to avoid conflict with Notre Dame students. 
We ran regular patrols and would respond to complaints,' Szlay said, 'but we wee told not to make any special effons to make arrests. We just couldn't see 30 cops taking on 1200 kids,' he later commen­ted. 
--, 
moved from the building~ A Fire Department pumper It was the largest ftre in truck was destroyed when a 

~()If~ l)ctrn~ 4£(
Chicago since the 1967 blue wall fell on it and seven other that destroyed McCormick trucks were damaged by heat. 
.I
Place, the huge lakefront expo· sition hall, ftre officials said. 
I
''The heat was fantastic,''. 
I
Some 300 ftremen using 75 said Pierce. Some ftremen, he 


§tucl~llt l()tt~ll
pieces of equipment battled the 
j
said, were kept busy hosingexplosion· \'unctuated flames down men who were pouring 
I

§ullciCI-,AtJ~e J1before bnnging them under 
water on the flames in order tocontrol around 2:30a.m. At the keep them cool.
peak of the ftre, ftremen count­


()aOOrrn
ed 35 explosions and flames, smoke and sparks mushroomed Fireman also said the heat 

le~f()fttJIIf? fullr()()rn
400 feet in the sky. 
was so strong that most of theThe ftre was expected to burn water from their hoses evapor­for another day or two, accord­ated before it hit the flames. 
ing to Capt. Thomas O'Connell, One team of firemen battled a ftre department spokesman. 
to cool an 11,000 ~allon semi­He said it might be days before trailer truck contaming liquid · an accurate damage estimate propane, which was threatened icould be established. 


by the flames.
However, two people with business at the second building 

§()()IIM)f~cll>l ~.1).
destroyed together estimated Investigators from the bomb damages at more than S1 and arson unit of the Police 
Department will investigate themillion. Charles Pierce, acting 





§tuclt?llt IJIII()Il
assistant Fire Commissioner, ftre, but officials said they were not immediately able to enter
also estimated that damage to the warehouse because of con­the plants would be more than ~inued ftrefighting activities.
$1 million. 


Located at the Wooden Indian 1631·0 Uncotnway E. 232-2434 Mon &Wed 10:30-7
Hours: Tues. Thurs. Fri. Sat 10:30-5 Creative fabric accents for JOUfhome. With the mostextensive line ofunusual fabrics in the area at fantastic prices 

Free Delivery 15%Discount with this ad and ND-SMC ID Lookfor our exhibit at the Stepan Mall 
N
NO 
z ~ 
I:J 
0 ~· 
;I> ., 


.,. Lincoln Way 
The largest collection of wall hangings in Indiana 





Editorials 
Friday, August 29, 1980-page 6 
Reagan and the right-eous wing 
Anthony Walton 
I was sorely tempted to call this one "The Coming of Moral Fa..<.;eism in America" but that's .t little drastic for this early in the year. Let it suffice to say
h
t at there has been an ominous 
· · h'
d
trcn growmg m t 1s country the last few years, and it appears to have gained in intensity retemly with the nomination of Ronald Reagan by the Republicans. 
1am referring to the much 
discussed "rilting to the right" 
nf America, or as 1 refer to it, the growth of the right-eous whing. _'lh1is b movement . is c aractcnzc< Y conservative politics, a nco-Viuorian moral­11 Y' and fundamerualisr relig­ion, though these three char­
actc-risrics are not con~tant 
and there are others. It is m6re of an attitude than anything, · and this is where the danger lies. This trend seems to have started back around the last election with the explosion of the evangelical movement and the increasins prominence of 
the ''born agam'' Christians. 
It has increased with such 
manifestations as Proposition 
13, the rebirth of the Ku I;Jux 
;;!dn~h~h~fv~~~ of:~~~:: 
conservauves. The latest and potentially most dangerous example of this phenomena is the Republ­ican Party platform for 1980. It contains some of the most reactionary statements ever ventured by a maJ·or American 
political party. While many of these statements can be dis­missed as political hyperbole, the overall tone and intent of 
fj · 
the platform is righterung, especially when taken in con­
junction with many of the 
current events now happening in this country and the world. Difficult economic times have a way of making conservatives 
~o:t ~~e~~n~~on~ccdifi~~
1 · h 
u ties set t e country on a doctrinal path that could be disastrous later. For example, consider the Republic~ plank concerning 
the appotntment of Federal Coun judges. If the Republ­icans are serious (and I tend to think that they are) about their so-called "litmus-test" for these judges, it is time for cautious consideration. This plank proposes that all pro-s~ctive Judges be against 

a nion or not be appointed to the bench. The constitution­ality of thi is dubious at best, and though it is doubtful that it really could be applied, the attitude involved cannot be 
pi~~~i~~ic s~i~ty~~~~alas i~ur~ 
that there be as much diversity in the judiciary as there is in the populace, or we will have a ruling elite that imposes its views upon thema jority. A suggestion such as tnis plank is a warning as to the attitude behind it. 
Welcome to Casino City 
University President: Fr. Theodore Hesburgh announced 
Yl'Stl·rday that instead of another tuition increase next year, 
Notre Dame will legalize gambling. In.a subsequent press 
release, Hesburgh also announced that St. Ed's hall will be 
rebuilt and redesigned as a casino/hotel complex. Hesburgh 
noted St. Ed's will be the oldest casino in the United States. 
1nflation, the rising cost of energy, and several construction projects in progress were reasons Hesburgh listed as justification for the controversial move. He said legalized gambling was preferred over another tuition increase by 75 per t:ent of the University's board of trustees. Several senior members of the board are rumored to oppose the plan. 
"Another tuition increase was out of the question. We needed a new source of revenue," Hesburgh said: 
"The only ()ther option besides the new casino was to have the football team join the NFL. But I don't think that would be a good posture for a Catholic University to take," he added. Hesburgh also denied that NO football coach Dan Devine's recent resignation came over administration refusal to let the team turn pro. 
"Dan was slightly embittered when we rejected an offer to join the AFC's Central division, but I think everyone will agree that the new plan will greatly benefit our athletic progran1." 
And Hcsb'urgh may be right. The new policy, called "The AtLtntic City Plan," calls for constuction to begin i111mediatelv, with the casino's grand opening set for next n·a r's USC .weekend. · Special football/casino charter trips will be run from eleven major cities including New York, Los Angeles, and 
(~hk;tgo. 

Doonesbury 


lbis is the greatest danger of this new attitude. By using shrewd political opportunism, Reagan and the conservative wing of the Republican party have forged an interesting coalition of right-wingers, one-
issue special-interest groups, and disaffected everyday Am­ericans by promising re­demption from the recession, high taxes, inflation, the Com­munists, and not in the least, ourselves. Reagan and his right-eous wing are espousing a retwn to lassez faire capital­ism, big-stick diplomacy, and good old-fashioned morals that will cure the country of all its 
i1l~.hThhais simpl~t~ ~o~d v_iew 
rmg t ve wor e m t e orne 
of Ted d Roosevelt, but in the new world order of the 1980's, it is painfully wrong, and could be tr~ic. Does Reagan actually think that the Russians will knuckle under because God blesses America? Does he (and other authors of 

~~~~~~~~~~~========~============================================the Republican platform) think 
A1ichael()nu)Tak 
"We'll have a special deal for business groups to fly into the 
area, stay in the hotel, gamble at the casino, see a game, and 
then swamp the bookstore," Hesburgh explained. 
"And, of course, bus tours, small conventions; large 
parties, and other package deals are all on the drawing 
board," he added. 

The casino, when completed, will stand 22 stories high and 
will be the tallest building on campus. There will be 500 hotel 
rooms, a 60,000 sqare foot gambling floor, two night clubs, 
and twelve separate bars within the building. 

Hesburgh noted that the new hotel/casino complex would 
not only improve the local concert scene, but also provide 
enough social space for the entire ND/SMC: community. 
"Ofcourse there will be no kegs allowed in the casino, but 
studt:n ts will be allowed to drink at the bars until midnite 
during the week and until two on the weekend." 
Hesburgh also noted that a proposal to malee the new hot el coeducational would be sent to the dean of students next we~k. "I am ?ersonally opposed to the idea, however our busmess people feel it is essential to the project's success '' 
he added. ' 
He added that the complex would remain open 24 hours a day to the general public. 
"We're really enthusiastic .about the whole project," Hesburgh noted. "And I'm certain the parents will be too when they find out they've seen their last tuition increase," Hesburgh said as he departed for a 24-city speaking/fund­raising tour. 
Michael Onufrak is editorials editor ofThe Obseroer. His column wtl! appear each Friday 
by Garry Trudeau 



---·­ 
M15N7 tVELL, Mlt/8e. 8IJT 7HitT MIXING I'M IA/Ifi/NG 7060 SR'.KJ5tufTH 7H£ !JIST/We£, EVEN fVLI77C9? If fTMf:AA/5 TAK­\ 11'6 fT ON 711& OliN.  

that stacking the judiciary with like-minded conservatives will stamp out abonion, drugs, homosexuals, sex, and all those other bad things that make America weak? (Even more threatening is the pos­
\) 
sibility of a Reagan Supreme 
Court.) Is he serious about 
unleashing Big Oil ''to find all 
the energy we need?" Sorry 
Mr. Reagan, the world doesn't 
work that way anymore. 
We must always be wary of 
any political movement that 
comes along preaching re­
demption through attitudes 
and morals. It is not the 
nature of politics and gov­
ernment to legislate morals, 
that is the business of the 
church. Government can ony 
supply the limits of civilization. 
When a government starts edging over into personal opinion and private morals, that smacks of totalitarianism. This is what I mean by moral fascism. We see the begin­nings of self-righteous pohtics in people like Orrin Hatch, Paul Laxalt, andJesse Helms. We see growing trends in book censorship, persecution of · cenain disliked minorities, and the growth oforganizations like ) erry Falwell's Moral Majority. 
And we see Ronald Reagan marshalling all of these trends and riding them to the White House. The fact that Rea~an is now the favorite to wm in November means that all of this ,must be taken seriously. 
The danger is not so much in Reagan himself, but rather in theattitude of the right-eous wing if he wins. They will feel as though they have received a mandate to have Jesse Helms, ) erry Falwell ancf Co. deciding what is best for me. I don't want American policy, both forei~n and domestic, dictated by nght-wing fundamentalist bombast. We can't live in the fifties, as most of these at­titudes seem to suggest. 
Anthony Walton is a junior majoring in English. He will write weekJy for the editorials 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The Obsen.•er is an independent newspaper published by the students of r~e­
Edllon . .zls Editor ........... Mike Onufrak 
University of Norre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. lr does nor ~ecessardy 
S~nwr Cop_,-Editor ......... Lynne Daley 
reflect the policies of the administration of either in~tiruuon. The news 1~ r_eported 
Neu·s Editor .................. Pam Degnan
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editonals represent the opm1on _of a 
News Editor ............... Tom Jackman
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and leners are th~ vrews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the c~mmunlty. and Neu·s Editor ............... John McGrath lhe free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, 1s encouraged . SAfC Executwe Ed11or .. ~1argie Brassil 
Edrtor-ln-Chief ...... ...... Paul Mullane}· ,\1anaging Edrtor .............. Mark Rust 
SMC N~u·s Editor ........... Marv Leavitt Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman Features Editor ... ; .......... Kate Farrell Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe Photo Editor .................. John Macor 
Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges Adt•ertising Manager .. Mike Holsinger Productzon Manager .... Ann Monaghan 
.·~ \. 
-~-----­
-------~ -----,
,--­

an Observer news supplement 
Conventions '80: the countdown begins 
Unified Republicans crown Reagan 
By Tom jackman News Editor 
"Together... a new beginning." Sure, it's camp, but as the 
theme ofJuly's Republican National Convention, it was a more 
tr...an appropriate catch phrase. IfUnity (with a capital U) wasn't 
the top priority of this fairly uneventful coronation, we don't 
know what was, and even the most die-hard liberals must 
concede that that goal was attained much more successfully in 
Detroit than in this month's Democratic tag-team wrestling 
match. 
Ironically, the man who worked so hard to achieve 
Republican unity in 1980, one Ronald Wilson Reagan, was the 
same man who may have hindered efforts to that end in 1976. 
Like Sen. Edward Kennedy in NewYork this year, Reagan lost a 
crucial rules fight two days before the presidential roll call, and 
ended up losing a long, hard struggle to the incumbent. 
However, unlike Ken-nedy, Reagan withheld the much-bally­
hooed loser's endorsement. Many blame this bitternon-gesture 
by Reagan as the difference between victory and defeat for Pres. 
Gerald Ford. However, it appeared that even this feud was 
patched up by the end of the convention, or so they claimed. 
There were very few differences of opinions among the 
Grand Old Partyers who attended the four-day blast in 
mammoth Joe Louis Arena. Probably the two most evident 
divisions were over the Equal Rights Amendment platform 
plank (see story pg.) and the awarding of the vice presidential 
slot by nominee Reagan. Even though the decision was 
Reagan's and Reagan's alone, the lobbying on behalf of at 
least a dozen different candidates was no less than fierce. 
Strikingly, the one man who had no campaign behind him and 
~ho insi~ted he didn't want the job, Gerald Ford, was Reagan's 
fust ch01ce and the man who almost got it. 
Ford provided the only spark ofexcitement to this otherwise 
ritual gather-ing, first by delivering a somewhat rousing, 
surprisingly well received speech on the first night. Next, on 
Wednesday night, he admitted to Walter Cronkite in a 
momentous interview that the door was no longer closed, in the 
process shocking the masses of journalists watching transfixed 
on the masses of televisions in the monstrous basement/press 
center ofadjacent Coho Hall. By9 p.m., the rumors were flying 
furiously, and the delegates didn't know what to think, being 
without the aid ofWalter, Ted and Frank, and John and David. 
Many media people were just plain fooled -not just headline 
writers at the Wall StreetJournal and Chicago Sun-Times-though 
they'll never admit it, and that only further abetted the 
confusion. Finally, Reagan delivered the dramatic word, and it 
was George Bush. 
Before Detroit, delegates apparently gave no consideration 
or hope to the thought of a Reagan-Ford "dream ticket." 
Instead, they were bombarded with the likes of Sen. Richard 
Lugar, Sen. Jesse Helms, Rep. Jack Kemp, William Simon, 
George Bush, Donald Rumsfeld, Anne Armstrong, Sen. 
Howard Baker, Rep. Phil Crane, Rep. Guy VanderJagt, and 
others. Out of this pack, two emerged as the favorites of the 
convention, setting off a mild debate among the mostly 
complacent Republicans. 
Jack Kemp, the charismatic quarterback from Buffalo, was the darling ofthe muscular conservative wing as Reagan's relief man, backed up by a $75,000 campaign (for the vice presidency) which he repeatedly disclaimed. As an economic adviser to Reagan, Kemp is credited with introducing such words into the Republican vocabulary as "enterprise zones" and "30 percent tax cut," and comparisons between him and another rising star, 
John F. Kennedy in 1956, are increasingly valid. His charges 
claimed in one release that 27 state delegations favored Kemp, 
even though this didn't make any dif-ference. 
George Bush was the moderates' alternative to Kemp, though his disagreements with several platform planks only further aroused the ire of the conserva-. tives. But· for those who believed Reagan's ticket needed balance, Bush was the favorite, even though the former ambassador is essentially a conserva-tive who appears moderate only when compared to the party's ever-growing right wing. 
Bush's presidential campaign staff worked smoothly and quietly in Detroit to get Bush on the ticket, even though Bush repeatedly claimed throughout the primaries that he did not want the second spot. W'hen Bush spoke on the third night of 
[cont. on page 10) 


Tedoutshines Jimmy in NY 

by Pam Degnan News Editor 
It has been said repeatedly that words mak~ the man. And with-out a doubt the political spectrum is a convenient showcase for a politician to display his learned set ofp's and q's. Never underestimate the power of the English language. Words, whether written or spoken can and will continue to influence-if not change-the course of human events. 
Take, for example, the Democratic convention. After withdrawing his name for the presidential nomination, Ted Kennedy held court the following night in Madison Square Garden and stirred his loyal subjects with words that even Don Quixote would have found impossible to ignore. 
Yes, Ted Kennedy managed to come to the emotional rescue of his dangerously divided Democratic Party. And he did it by word of mouth which had always produced problems in the past. 
During his entire speech to the delegates, in which he addressed the nation's economic woes, Kennedy continuously stressed two words that underlined his message-the cause. In crisp, flowing prose, the senator captivated his people with allusions to brighter days of a unified party and a Democratic president in November. 
Perhaps the most striking aspect ofKennedy's oration was its drugging effect on the mass media. Despite the press's addiction to describing Kennedy as "bumbling and often incoherent," he nonetheless succeeded in numbing many journalists including a significant number of his strongest critics . 
............. 
Suddenly, after a rousing 50-minute speech that had 
Editor's Note: News editors Pam Degnan Kennedy's followers in tears and Carter's delegates on the edge and Tom jackman attended the of their seats, the Massachusetts senator emerged as the Democratic and Republican Conventions Democrats' "knight in shining armor." respectively over the summer. The con­For nine months on the campaign trail, the print/broadcast ventions signifiedthe beginning ofthe end media hounded and pursued Kennedy as he stumbled and of this lengthy presidential campaign, bumbled his way across the country. Perhaps the lowpoint of which started with considerably more Kennedy's interaction between the media was when he was candidates nearly two years ago. In this interviewed by Mike Wallace on the "60 Minutes" television 
four page Observernews supplement, we show last February. As Wallace fired question after question 
present a perspective on the conventions as concerning the Chappaquidick tragedy, Kennedy hedged and the final countdown towards November 4 hawed until he was reduced to a quivering mass ofincoherency. begins, and a look at the impact those Public opinion polls plummeted. 
gatherings could have on the fall cam­Kennedy had dug an early grave. 
paign. On November 3, election eve, we However, as the Democratic convention drew closer, the willexamine the races as they haveevolved Kennedy movement for a rules debate gained momemtum since the conventions, and take a look at while 'Billygate' and a failing economy kept Carter busy other localpolitical contests as they influ­defending himself to the American people and the press. The ence ND/SMC students. momemtum never quite peaked and Kennedy lost his one and 
only chance for the nomination. So, on Tuesday night, a man who had been defeated in his 
~{*********** 

quest for the presidency tackled the job of unifying his divided party and won the hearts -if not the votes -of many delegates with his final words that summed up his own personal feelings about the Democratic party: "the hope lives on, the cause endures and the dream will never die." 
[cont. on page 8) 

-. .. . . . . ­
-. . 

• '''" J !jfii:. . . ' .. 

Young Republicans stream into Detroit 
By Tom]ackman school (he's done it twice 
News Editor before), Antosh quickly adds, DETROIT-Where else could "it's an educational experience you see a show consisting of you can't get in any school." Donny & Marie, the singing Antosh estimates that, of the Whitney family, one half of the five million students in four­Everly Brothers, and all but one year colleges, "in one way or member of the swinging another, our campaign will Reagan family? Nowhere but touch at least three million of the Ford Auditorium next door them. In the past, we've been toJoe Louis Arena, where some able to get large numbers of 2000 potential politicians ages students involved very quickly 15-25 gathered every day of this in the campaign." convention under th._e banner of One of the 270 seminar part­the Reagan Youth Movement. icipants was. Greg Folley, a 
Although they were housed Notre Dame senior in charge of more than half an hour away at the ND-SMC Students for !:'..astern Michigan University, Reagan group. Folley was in the youths (who came in from Detroit with four otherDomers nearly every state in the Union) as part of the Reagan Youth were kept busy in the mornings Movement, juniors Brian with sign-making and other Anselman, Trish Hiler, Beth activities. In the afternoons Huffman and Mike O'Connor. they were bused into Detroit, Folley, an avowed conserva­where they gathered in the Ford tive, remarks not inaccurately Auditorium for panel discus­that "we've got control of the by Pam Degnan the evening, 33rd Street embod­
week-long show, each group

sions which included William party." The conservatives have News Editor ies the spirit of the wild side of trying to outdo the other inorder Simon, Alexander Haig, indeed regained the helm of the New York City. And it's certainly to attract prime time media Donald Rumsfeld and William GOP, at least for now; and they Once again the circus came to the place to if you have coverage. Reporters
be luggingBuckley, and other entertain­hold a desperately pessimistic the . Big Apple -minus lions, something to say. Which is what camera crews scrambled from ment. view of the nation at this time. tigers and bears but nonetheless happened during the gathering morning sessions inside the 
Nights found them in the Folley feels, as many here did, staged with enough acts to keep of the Democratic clan. Garden to the protest demon­that liberals are on the danger­
arena, participating in the everyone amused. Although there were many strations in front of the city's numerous noisy-and lengthy ous verge ofpushing this count­Political conventions always different kinds ofprotest groups main postal office. No-nuke ac­
-floor demonstrations and ry over the precipice, and seem to attract side-shows of "doing their thing" during the tivists, gay rights enthusiasts,lending their smiling faces to every form and the Democratic week, itis perhaps noteworthy to gray panthers, draft registration 
any television camera which Folleypoints9ut convention in New York was say that there were more police protestors, Rev. Moon recruits,would oblige. certainly no exception. The cen­officers and barricades blocking Save the Whales groupees-the
that conservativism 

It may sound trivial, but in ter ring inside the Garden may streets than rabble-rousers. protestors covered every pointtruth the whole event was an "is what's new and have beenmore newsworthy, but Which only emphasizes the fact on the spectrum and surprisingly
intelligently orchestrated at­3 3rd Street was where the action that the wave of protests started there were more apolitical rep­
dynamic"

tempt to involve young voters was. in the sixties is, twenty years resentatives on the scene. with the Republican party and Ansdman ctdris gluumily, "If Infamous for its striptease later, nothing more than a ripple. Some protestors, however,the fall campaign, and it just Reagan doesn't win, I don't joints, and eye-catching ladies of And so they assembled for a had a legitimate gripe. The may have succeeded. think a conservative could win." United Coal Workers, for exam­
Steve Antosh, a Reagan aide However, Folley is quick to ple, had over 50 workers distrib­
who served the former gov­point out that conservatism "is uting pamphlets toNew Yorkers, ernor as an Oklahoma delegate what's new and dynamic. praising the wonders of coal as in 1976 and as an alternate here, 
Democrats are off on the same the answer to the nation's energyhas been named National old thing, throwing money at problem.
...Carter
I, Coordinator of the Reagan things to solve problems.. Also in full force were rep­Youth Movement. He helped What's new, and hasn't bee'l resentatives from the automo­organize the group which ar­heard in a long time, is [cont. from page 7] bile industry who came to lobbyrived here, but said, "there Republican." Jimmy Carter, on the other hand, only managed to get a in favor of K~nnedy's economic really wasn't any systematic Also represented in Detroit lukewarm response to his acceptance speech. What was to have planks. Easily made visual byeffort. They basically put was another viable youth politi­been his moment of personal triumph over Kennedy and the their assorted paraphenelia ad­someone in charge of having cal force, the College Republi­move for the open convention, failed miserably. Here was a vertising hRA, groups ofwomen some programs for whoever did cans. As Chairman Steve Gibble perfect opportunity for Carter to show the American people young and old rallied around the show up....Other than that, will tell you, the Republicans that he was in charge ofthe show, however he succeeded onlyin Garden, although they didn't ex­well, there're not too many most certainly are taking an in­putting most delegates to sleep with his extremely verbose pect any hitches in the delegate spontaneous uprisings in this terest in their younger legions, tirade against his Republican rival, Ronald Reagan. voting for ERA to be included in country, but this was one of evidenced byhis position on the Instead ofadopting the calm, cool style that he displayed in the platform. This wasn't the them. Those kids just came on Republican National Comm­his press conference explaining his role in the Billygate affair a case inDetroit at the Republicantheir own." ittee, with full voting privileges. week before the convention, Carter tried to ride on the Convention. 
Antosh was in Detroit for Gibble calls the College emotional wave Kennedy had created. Unfortunately, it was One young woman, dressed in another reason: to find 60 Republicans "a training area for evident that Carter was losing the attention of the delegates, a blue kimona and standing on a qualified college-age Republi­the big leagues. We're trying to who only showed the bare minimum of applause during the battered soapbox, fascinated and cans to work as full-time camp­educate college students," he speech. After all, the delegates were probably somewhat angered many passer-bys with aign coordinators this fall. To adds, ''trying to make the confused when Carter mentioned a Hubert Horatio­her plea for the legalization of become one of those paid Republicans the majority ofthe Hornblower-Humphrey as a man who would have been one prostitution and marijuana and Reagan staffers, one first had to future. We attempt to influ­of the greatest presidents in recent years. other "illegal activities." apply and be accepted for one of ence people at the college level, Instead of explaining his last four years in office -both At one point during her cam­five two-day seminars held trying to make an impression successes and failures-Carter simply rambled on and on and paign speech, Madam Lang (shearound the country this sum­when most of them are formu­on about the weak Republican platform and how Ronald decided to run for president) had mer. The application asked lating their ideas about politics Reagan, if elected, would lead the country into a tailspin. He so captured the imaginations of questions like, "Are you willing and government. We want to failed to see that the delegates weren't interested in what people, that within minutes over to sleep on a variety of lumpy get past the Democratic image Ronald Reagan couldn't do for them butwhatJimmy Cartermust 60 people had signed pledges for 
sofas while doing field work for do for them.
of Republicans as the Big Busi­her support.
the Reagan campaign?...Are ness party." And so ended the show at Madison Square Garden, where it So much for American poli­you willing to work until 3 a.m. lcont. on page 10) was difficult to distinguish the winner from the loser. tics. when campaign conditions 

might require you to?" 
A total of270 applicants were accepted for the seminars, and the final 60 will be selected by the end ofAugust, according to Antosh. 
The seminars were not "rah­rah sessions at all," says Antosh. ··we teach seminars on how to find volunteers, how to plug them into the regular projects 
~..' 
''• 
of the campaign, and how to do special projects with students." Antosh says that the 60 field coordinators will be sent to the ..battleground states," as yet undetermined, to perform "all kinds of different field work." Noting that the coordinators 
I' will be taking off a semester of 
:~· 
•r 

d~ 
d: 
'' 
~jl 
It,' 
~~­
~~~~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

ERA ignites mild debate 
By Tom]ackman percent opposed. This didn't 
of the panelists why he opposed

News Editor 
seem to bother any of the 
the t.RA. She was booed into .DETROIT-There weren't majority opposition. 

red-faced submission by her many issues upon which this 

Inside Joe Louis Arena, the 
conser vative peers.

decidedly conservative gather­query "Why do you oppose/ 
The minority supporters of

ing disagreed last month, but support the hqual Rights the t.RA responded much dif­
one of them did arouse the Amendment?" drew rapid, e­ferently to our question, usu­passions of nearly every parti­motional responses from all 
ally with quizzical, sometimescipant and observer at the those questioned who oppose incredulous looks. Indeed, it is

convention-Women's 
the amendment. Joyce Hamula 
unusual to ask someone whyRights, more specifically, the of Utah replied, "Do you have they support equality for them­still unratified Equal Rights an hour?" Attending the con­selves. Two pro-eRA lobbyistsAmendment. 

vention solely to lobby 
on agreed that interpretations of 

Seemingly, there was no mid­behalf of the Pro-Family the very similar 14th Amend­dle ground for Republicans -Coalition, she commented ment are increasing, in favor of
' 

everyone here had firm con­"the eRA has too many serious women, but "I don't see a victions either in favor of or implications for the family," 
reason to wait any longer" for 

against the eRA, and a plethora adding, "the language is so full equality, Nancy Wells de­
of buttons appeared to an­vague it can be interpreted in 
clared. 

nounce each person's allegia­any way." She pointed to doc­
Two members of Gov. 

nce, either a red octagon umentation by the Yale Law Harold Stassen's staff claimed 
labeled "STOP eRA" or a green Review that interpretations of 
that "people are mis reading

circle saying "YeS eRA." the eRA would relieve the 
and misinterpreting" the t.RA 

Clearly, the former greatly father of his legal obligation to and that equality will never be 
outnumbered the latter. support the family and would 
achieved through the 14th The debate, which has been otherwise "drastically affect 

Amendment, which was ratified 

simmering on the GOP's back domestic law." 
in 1868 to guarantee equality to 

burner for years now, was Both Hamula and Hazel blacks and whites. The two 
brought to a boil by several Marsh, a delegate from Virgin­
women noted that they had 

factors, . ::nost notably the ia, noted that there are already visited Notre Dame during last 
emergence ofRonald Reagan as many laws guaranteeing equal year's Mock Republican Con­
the victor/survivor of the win­rights. Marsh said she was vention, and were dismayed byter primary season. Reagan has opposed to "any more govern-
the number of female students 

Jlong been opposed to eRA. 
Additionally, when the time came in early July to draft the 1980 Republican Platform, Reagan's forces controlled the 
''. committee drafting the docu­ment. Though quite tactful in compromising with moderate groups on other issues, the conservatives decided to flex their muscle on t.RA, and dropped their party's 40 year support for ratification from the platform, dismaying num­erous women's groups and causing GOP Co-chairman Mary Crisp to resign over the conflict. The Republicans had been the first party to support rat­
ment controls," and Hamula on campus who opposed the

ification of such an amend­
said there were "already 60 amendment.

ment, back in 1940, and even different pieces of legislat.ion." What the debate apparentlyarch-conservative Barry Gold­Several Young Republicans boils down to, among Repub­
water's platform supported it in 
from Texas also voiced their licans at least, is this: whetheror1964. But apparently, Reagan 

opposition, saying that the eRA not one believes men andfelt strong enough about the "would be doing more harm women are now equal. We

amendment so that his forces than good." Dan Simpson, in found ourselves asking this
disdained compromise (though one of the question a great deal, and there
Reagan later in the week did Detroit as nearly 2000 member Reagan Youth ·seems to be very little devia­offer some conciliatory ges­
tures), and some Movement, claimed that, under tion. hRA supporters do not
Republicans the eRA, "technically, nothing feel that men and women arefeel the plank will cost the party is sacred, and it (hRA) could be equal at this time-anti-eRAvotes in November. 
applied to all male-female div­forces do believe they are, or atThe platform does not en­isions." Similarly, another fe­least as equal as they should be.

tirely rebuff the hRA, it merely 
male opponent of the amend Sentiment for or against thecalls for the states to make their 

ment said that she appreciates .t.RA here was based very closelyown decisions, stating that they s.eparate bathrooms and related on this belief. And apparently, a

have "a constitutional right to 
segregated facilities, which she large majority ofthe Grand Old

accept or reject a constitutional 
feels would disappear under the Party now feels that men and

amendment without federal 
hRA. Asked if she didn't think women have achieved equalityinter ference," referring to the common sense would prevail in without the aid of anotherlobbying President and Mrs. 

matters such as tese, she shook consitutional amendment.

Carter have done on behalf of 
her head and replied grimly, One novel exception is FrankeRA. One Reagan insider here "Nope." Adana, a delegate from Newfelt that the plank was a com­earlier that day, at a panel York who opposes hRA. Why?

promise, since the anti-eRA discussion in front of a gather­"Women are by far superior toforces did not prevail com­ing of young Republicans, a men," he reasons. "That'spletely either, saying that lead young girl innocently asked one [cont. on page 10]
ing eRA opponent Phyllis Schlafly and her supporters were somewhat restrained by I Reagan's forces in their bid to 
I
I 

reverse the Republican position 
I

entirely. I Once the convention began, I
I

the so-called liberals of the 
ON ANYLARGE REGULAR PIZZA I

party staged a march in the city I to protest the new Republican I stance, but the rejuvenated I OR ANYSIZE STUFFED PIZZA 
I

conservatives of the GOP were 
I 

unmoved. The National Organ­I ization for Women which I SUNDAY 
291-8311 

helped organize th~ rally, I claimed that "An overwhel­
I 

ming majority of the American II MONDAY and TUESDAYONl V with thiscouponat 
people favor ratification of the I hqual Rights Amendment" 
IJHE RAJHSKEL Lf\R at I

with 62 percent in favor (34 


percentstron~ly in favor) and 31 
I SCOTTSDALE MALl I 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii·----------------r, ,.I 

By Pam Degnan News Editor 
Reporters tend to be what they cover. And the American polit­ical system with all its short­comings and loopholes seems to hold a special fascination for those journalists who strive to seek out truth, justice and the American way at political gath­
erings ­ especially  the  party  
c~nventions.  
Of course,  once  again  the  

print/broadcast media was there, not necessarily on its best be­havior, but at least decked out in its best finery eagerly awaiting the zero hour when millions a­cross the country would hope­fully switch from reruns to the real world of politics. Little did the media realize that its some­what chaotic and at times ave­bearing coverage of the Republican show in Detroit fail­ed to add to its rapidly dwindling popularity. Although the Democrats did not accord the media a "dream ticket," as did Ronald Reagan's troops, the press, nonetheless, capitalized on the evident division in the Democratic party and the polit cal rebith of Senator Ted Kennedy. 
Most of the old-timers and big shots were down on the floor with the delegates chattingabout the price ofchickens in Missouri or where to go to eat in New YorkCity between commercials, but as soon as the green light began blinking reporters hound­eddazed delegates for their opin­ions on the convention proceed­ings. Professionalism at its peak. 
The real scoop on convention coverage was not really found on the floor nor in the network anchor booths resting in the raft­ers of Madison Square Garden, but with all the "special" ed­itions, weekly newspapers, col­lege papers and small-town mag­azines thrown together in a tiny press lounge in the mezzanine section (with TV monitiors) vir­tually isolated from the political frenzy on the Garden floor. 
Journalists from all parts ofthe country, from Los Angeles to Oshkosh, Wisconsin, came to the convention if not to take notes then at least catch a glimpse ofhistory in the making. Some were fresh out of j-school while others bore the marks of having traveled this road before. And still others, like the college papers, saw the convention as a perfect opportunity to see the field of communications in its finest and darkest hours. 
Take Mike Shue, a senior American Studies major at UCLA. Having backpacked from Westwood, Ca., to the Big Ap­ple, Shue sat in the press lounge mesmerized by the hustle and bustle of the convention pro­ceedings. Other reporters, how­ever, weren't quite as fascinated with the political show as Shue. Paul Findley, an arts/entertain­ment editor of a small travel magazine in Acton, Mass., came to the convention not to observe the Carter-Kennedy duel, but to collectsome informationon how to economicaHy spend a week­end in New York. 
What struck a few reporters were the visible outbursts of in­difference from their collegues and peers. On the night of Kennedy's emotional appeal to the delegations, the Railroad Car Lounge (also located on the mez­zanine) opened its doors to pro­fessional and amateur journalists 
[cont. on page I 0] 

A  Au~tions 7:OOp.m.  
SHOT  
IN  Washington Hall  
THE  Sept. 1, 2  
DARK  STUDENT  


ALL ARE 
PLAYERS 

WELCOME 
Notre Dame Student Union 

I. 


-
Young repubs 
[cont. from page 8) 
' Gibble claims that the College Republicans have no real counterpart in the Demo­cratic party. "The College Democrats of America have only a small staff, and they're not on the national commit­tee!' On reaching out to the country's young voters, .Gibble commented, "the Democrats 
·don't do it, so we do." 
In the. nearby Hotel Pont­chartrain, Gibble and his back­ers staged a highly visible, very ~ell-attended rally here, featur­mg Rep. Jack Kemp of New York, Gov. Pierre duPont of 
Anderson could be only obstacle to Reagan White House 
[cont. from page 7) the convention, an impressive demonstration on his behalf was staged-exceeding the demonstration for Kemp the night before-, including a sea of "Reagan-Bush" signs undulating on the arena floor. Bush apparently allowed the demonstration to continue ~onger than planned while he regained his composure, having JUSt heard the dominant rumor of the hour, that he was definitely off the ticket. When he did begin, his speech was short, forceful and effective, the best of the entire convention. When he finished, the crowd erupted once more, led by the Michigan delegation directly in front of the podium, a u~animous slate of82 Bush ~ackers elected in his upset primary vtctory over Reagan there m May. Unfortunately, it was that victory which concluded Bush's candidacy, since two TV networks announ-ced that night that Reagan had (by their count) clinched the nomination despite his loss. Thatwas just one instance ofthe highly visible effect the news media has had during this campaigQ. Intensely competitive and always trying to dig up something new, the broadcast and print media were forever trying to arouse its audience's interest in a subject which bores more and more people daily, as they focused and refocused our attentions on events and actions which, in retrospect, seem not quite so significant as they were trumpeted. . An excellent example ofthis was the Iowa caucuses, a win of small propor-tions for Bush turned into a rousin~, thrilling 
Delaware, and Sen. John Warner of Virginia (wife Liz in tow). Warner credited the College Republicans with mak­ing the difference in his incred­ibly close election to the Senate in 1978, and Gibble has the statistics to back that up. 
He claims that Virginia's col­lege students never voted in any noticeable numbers before 1978, but that the effort of the CRs increased that total tre­mendously. In the final tally, Warner was the favorite on 21 of22 Virginia campuses, and his total victory margin was less than 5000 votes, more than half of which were student absentee votes. 
The Republicans are doubt­less attempting to build a poli­tical base for the future, some­thing Democrats probably do not have to do. In the mean­time, the process is apparently producing a few positive re­sults. 
Incidentally, the entertain­ment extravaganza mentioned at the outset was to have includ­ed an appearance by the candi­date himself. Unfortunately, he was unable to make it, so wife Nancy substituted with the rest ofthe family. Former recording artist-turned-lieutenant gov­ernor Mike Curb MC'ed the whole show, and the future Republicans loved every min­ute of it. 

upset by a press corps desperate for a close race. As usual, the New Hampshire primary was largely overplayed, as was the vaunted Reagan-Bush debate there, an agile political maneuver by Reagan which got much more ink than it deserved. 
The press can also be credited with an invaluable assist in the campaign of Rep. John Anderson. Led by the powerful New York Times, the media plucked Anderson, the ultra-underdog, from the group of greatly similar candidates, managed to portray him as a liberal, free-thinker in a bunch of hard-line right wingers, and directed the nation's attention (whether deservingly or not) to a candidate who otherwise would never have gotten it. In the proc-ess, Anderson's campaign was elevatd from a small group touring the New England countryside in a four-door sedan, preaching conservation and 5Q-50, to a full-fledged drive with all the trimmings. 
The significance of Anderson's continued presence in the race canno.t be overlooked-he need wn only two or three states to send the'election into the House of Representatives, where anything can happen, and probably will. Even ifReagan were to win a plurality of electoral and popular votes, Demo­crats outnumber Republicans by 116 in the House at this time, and barring a tremendous turnover of Congressmen in November, it's a safe bet to say that the Representatives would returnJimmy Carter to the White House, regardless ofhow the public voted. In that case, the last year-all the campaigning, all the politicking, all the hoopla, all the conventions-will have been, essentially, for nothing. 
• 
[cont. from page 9] 
offering free food and beer. Hordes ofpeople flashing admis­sion passes stampeded the place, and if there ever was a "dark" hour during the convention, that had to be it. Even as Kennedy delivered his plea for unification, there was always a constant buzz of people talking. Attention spans were quite short. 
And so the last night of the convention was called to order 
...Media 

and the press, which happened to outnumber delegates three to one, began to pack up their cam­eras, tape recorders, micro­phones and pens and paper. A young French girl representing her glamour magazine came to the convention to get the ·~in­side" story ofthe conventionand best described the "democratic" experience as: "Are Americans always this crazy?" 
GOP 
•
ntxes , ' , ERA 
[cont. from page 9] 

based on all sorts ofpchological and physical facts -they live longer, have a higher threshold of pain, have fewer suicides and nervous breakdowns...From one-celled animals all the way up, the female is always the stronger, more vicious of the specie~. Ifthey want to be equal whe~ they're already superior, they rea bunch ofdamn fools." 
(Editors note-At this writing. 35 states have ratified the Equal Rights Amendment, and five have rescinded their ratifications pending legal appeal Thirty-eight states must ratify the amendment by March, 1981 for it to become a part of the 
U.S. Constitution.) 


~cords 
Tapes 
45'~ 
Clothin2 
.JI~JlJl lll~f~lt 
'fHIUll~ J.lNJ) JIA(~K 
including: Star Cycle/Too Much To Lose El Becko/Space Boogie/The Pump 
"Buy It Once. Enjoy It A Lifetime. Recorded Music Is Your Best Entertainment Value:' 
\JTsTr the. ~wrd S10ft. wiT~ a whole.. lor More!! 
THEO'JAYS THE YEAII2000 
including: Girt. Don'llet ~Gel You Down/You_,, Filii 
'!bull-Know (AM There hi To Know1lout My L"""l The-2000 

FZ 36416 
P.·\llL i\lcCt\RTi'EY \IcC\I{ 1'\n II
~ew~l ry 
including: Coming UpIWaterfalls/One Of Theoe Days Nobody Knows/On TheWay
I.ea_\he_(' 
~osc:e.rS Ma.~a.~Vl~~ 
FC 36511 

BARRY GOUDRlAU 
•ncluding: Dreams/Nothin' To Lose Mean Woman Blues/What's AFella To Do? Leavin ·Tonight 
JR 36542 


MUSIC FROM THE ORIGINAL SOUNDTRACK 
WilliE NELSON &FAMILY 
HONEYSUCKLE ROSE 
including: On The Road Again/Angel Eyes/Angel Flying Too Close To The Ground/Two Sides To Every Story/If You Want Me To Love You I Will 
FE 36404 
SpeciallyPriced 2·RfCOROSET 
DEVADIP CARLOS SANTANA 
THE SWING OF OEUGHT 
including: Sw-T.n}Phule< Mottan Golden Hours/LoveTheme From "Spartacus" SonvFO< My Brother 
GivetheJ!ift 
of musk. 
+ 
Ted
Nugent 
Scream 
DretJm 
including: 
") 
WangoTango Scream Dream Hard As Nails IGottaMove Flesh& 
Blood 
2 RECORD SET 

MON.-$Ar. 10 tb )() 1oN. 1'2tb ~ ~ M<tSt.~~ OK! 
Features 
Friday, August 29, 1980-pagell 
Bar and ActivityUpdate in South Bend 
Mike Cicero 

This year's choices of weekend di­versions within walking distance of campus are basically the same as last year's. But the closing ofGoose's has limited the social scene, not only because of its absence, but also be­cause of the effect on the other est­ablishments frequented by Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
Those under 21 will feel the effects 
most of all. The events of the past 
year that led to the closing ofGoose's 
have made everyone else much more 
wary of allowing minors into their 
bars. 
The bar that has reacted most stronelv to last year's events is 
N dcki~'s. Food is. now served, the interior has been redone to allow more sitting space, and operating hours are from 7 a.m. to 3 a.m., with food served from breakfast to late at night. Nickie's owner says that after being "au absentee'' for five years, he has decid.ed to switch Nickie's from college bar to bar and grill, "a sit­down place." 
He denies, however, that the clos­ing ofGoose's will have much effect on the business at Nickie's. Em­phasizing that the bulk of Goose's clientele had been minors, he stated that "we are not going out for Goose's business." N ickie's seems to be reaching out for an older not necesarily college, crowd. Nick's owner says, however, that he expects many law and graduate students, since they are of age. 


He also feels that Goose's closing will increase off-campus parties to accomodate the underclassmen, but states that Corby's simply cannot af­ford to have anyone underage found in the establishment. Consequently, Corby's will probably be strict on age requirements. Those who do get in will find a redecorated interior, an attempt to repair last year's ravages. 
BridgetMcGuire's is also keeping last year's format, with happy hours from 4 to 7 p.m. and twenty-five cent beers every night, though there may be additional changes within the year. Day Manager Ben Bowman notes hat Goose's was "blatant" in its disregard of restrictions, and that he anti­
cipates heavy carding as a result. Ac­
cording to Bowman, Bridget's and 
the other area bars have been under 
pressure from the police and ABC 
officials to not admit minors. 

Ifone is looking for options beside 
food and drink, he can venture furth­
er into South Bend. The Century 
Center is one of the most promising 
spots downtown for weekend activit­
ies. Besides the spec:ial events held in 
the Convention Hall, there is the 
Discovery Hall Museum with its 
permanent collection of historic 
Studebakers and other industrial 
products depicting the history of 
South Bend-Mishawka, and the Art 
Center, which contains a permanent 
collection along with current dis­
plays. 
Many special performances Me 
scheduled at Century Cnter through­
out the upcoming year. Coming soon 
are the Second Ciry troupe, the 
Preservation HallJ~zz Band, and the 
Dizzy Gillespie Quartet. 
South Bind lost one of its best 
spots to see good new and small 
concert bands wi~h the closing of 
Vegetable Buddies. There are re­
ports, however, that it may reopen. 
Another downtown favorite, Cin­
nabar's, will soon be changing to an 
Urban Cowboy format. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will, of course, also be sponsoring a wide range of activities throughout the school year. Mike Cicero is a govemment major from Conway, Georgia. This is hr~ 
first contribution to Features. 
' 

'New 'Symphony Plans Pop and ClassicalConcerts 
In Dome-dom, most residents rock with their Rolling Stones or mellow­out with their Mangione, oblivious to the symphonic sounds rising from the surrounding city of South Bend. This autumn, ND-SMC music connoiseurs can tap their feet to the tunes of a different South Bend Symphony. 
To improve management, the former South Bend Symphony merged with the newly-formed Midwest Pops to create the South Bend Symphony Orchestra Associa­tion. Together for their first season, they will offer a classical series of performances, a "Pops" series, a~d a mini-series containing three classtcal and one "Pops" concert. 
The Association's musical director, Herbert Butler, will conduct the 105 member orchestra. A series of eight ·classical concerts begins October 25, with guest artist Misha Dichte:, ·pianist and Tchaikovsky Competi­tion Silver Medalist. 
November 15, Gary Karr, a double bass violin virtuoso performs, and on December 13, Dr. Robert W. Demaree, Jr. directs the South Bend Symphonic Choir in its performance of Arthur Honegger's King David. 
January 10, chamber music is the bfll of note as the South Bend Symphony Chamber Players are highlighted. January 24 brin~s Elma~ Oliveira, 1978 Tchatk~vs_ky Competition Gold Medal wmnmg 'violinist. Pianist John Owings per­forms February 14; March 28, Barry Tuckwell, F·rench horn master, is featured wtth the orchestra. 
The Symphony completes its 48th season on May 2 with guest tenor James McCracken and sopra~o Sandra warfield. All concerts begm at 8 p.m. in the Morris Civic Auditorium except the January 10 Chamber piayers concert which will be held at the IUSB Auditorium. Concerts of this classical series present a repertoire _reaching from Dvorak to Dragonettl; from Mozart 
to  Mendelsohn;  from  Bartok  to  
Beethoven.  
. ,  

Fashioned after the Boston Pops, 
the collection of 5 5-60 musicians 
comprising the Midwest Pops, will 
perform informal concerts of pop­
ular music. The first offour shows in 
the Pops season series, Doc Se­
verinsen on Monday, October 13 is 
sponsored by WNDU in cel~bration 
of their 25th Anniversary. 
December 21, Nina Sopiejewska, 
pianist, plays "A Tribute to Arthur 
Fiedler."Jan Curtis, mezzo-Soprano, 
brings "The Best of Broadway: Past 
and Present" to South Bend on 
Februrary 22. 
A Latin-American Festival will be 
held on April 26 with Manfredo Fesr, 
pianist, singer, and composeras guest 
art-ist. 
Newton Wayland and Herbert Butler are this year's men behind the baton. Wayland, protege, friend and associate ofArthur Fiedler, conducts the Midwest Pops in its home, the Century Center, in addition to being a guest conductor of the Boston Pops, the Rochester Philharmonic, the Fort Lauderdale, Minnesota and Oakland symphonies. Conductor of the South Bend Symphony Orchestra since 1975, Butler has also directed the Jackson Symphony Orchestra and the Kalamazoo Junior Symphony, and is now a professor of music at Western Michigan U ni­versity. 
In addition to the classical and popular music series, the Morris Civic will be the site of a classicaVpops mini-series. The fourth concert ofthe series will be a tribute to Arthur Fiedler on December 21. The classical components of the mini­series are the Gary Karr concert on November 15, the John Owings concert on February 14, and the Barry Tuckwell concertAssociation's season. December 17, the Family Christmas Concert at the Century Center. November 16, bass violist Gary Karr will give a Young People's Concert in the Morris Civic Audi­torium. An extraspecial event will occur after the November. 14, De­

-· 
cember· 13, February 14, Man:h · 28 and May 2 classical concerts: "Meet the Artists" parties on the Mezzanine foyer where the audience can mingle with the guest soloists. Die-hard classical groupies should not miss this chance to meet the personality as well as the talent. 
The Orchestra Association offers ND-SMC students ticket discounts to Symphony and Pops concerts. Stu­dent season tickets for the classical series cost $27 for main floor and mezzanine seats; $23 for first balcony seats, and $18 for second and third balcony seats. These offer an average savings of $17 for the student. Tickets may be purchased separately for for the individual performances at $1 off the regular price. For the Pops concert series, a student seasonticket 
1ane Barber 

costs $18, a savings of $12. Tickets may be purchased before each 
·concert. For the combined Sym­phony and Pops mini-series concerts, main floor and mezzanine seats are $18 for students, first balcony seats are $15, and second and third balcony seats are $12. 
.Ticket rev~nue provides one-third of the support the Association needs to continue its work. The other two­thirds are funded by grants from the Indiana Arts Commission, company sponsorships and private donations. 
For information regarding per­formance times and tickets costs, call 232-6343. 
.fane Barber, an American Studies major from Hillcrest, MD, rs a Features staff writer. 



r­
~ 
( 
~ 
Features
' 
Friday, August 29, 1980-page 12 
l 
l 
; I 
j 
I 
I 
} 
~ 
I I 
) 
I 
' ~ 
J '} J 
r~ 
I 
I 
I 
LETTERS TO A LONELYGOD 
The Last Best Carousel in Am.erica 
On summer afternoons in New 
York City, a handsome lady trailing. 
antique lace comes to Central Park to 
ride the carousel. She arrives in a 
chauffered limousine; she nods only 
to the children, and strokes the 
wooden manes of the Nubian lions. 
Then, seated stiffly on the cushions 
of a Roman chariot, she travels the 
pathways that the painted ponies 
pick, moving circularly-only 
backwards, I suspect, in her itnag­
ination -like the hands of a clock 
reaching for yesterday. A grownup 
journeys further on the half-ac.re ofa 
carousel than the most distant 
Xanadu that a child could reach, if 
Xanadu were a place belonging to 
childhood, and not a tourist trap used 
by the minds of tired poets. 
Rumor tells stories of who the 
handsome lady is; the widow ofa New 
York millionaire who bought the 
carousel as a gift for the City's 
children, or the daughter or grand­
daughter of the Frenchman who ran 
the painted ponies at some long-ago 
fair like the Paris Exhibition. The 
hard fact insisted upon by a ticket 
manager not wishing to be quoted is 
that she is a former showgirl who 
danced for Ziegfeld. The chauffer 
who drives her never admits any­
thing. "What do I know?" he says. "I 
was rented for the afternoon." 
A grand and handsome lady who 
rents limousines could be most ·anyone you want her to be: a dowager duchess, or the maiden aunt of Minnie the mermaid; or the down­stairs maid who did the dusting for 
Mrs. Astor, or the first Rockette ever 
to fling an ankle over the footlights at 
Radio City Music Hall. For the 
Central Park Regulars-the old 
dolls who sun themselves, the old 
guys who read newspapers on park 
benches -she was a sweetheart 
YOUOUGHTTO BEHA VIN' FUN! 
su ,, can 
een to Vincent Price 
What activities are planned for students this semester? Dale Ann Robinson, associate director of the Student Union, has the answer. "This year we are offering a wide variety of things to make your year more exciting. There is something here for everyone, so watch for the 'devil' -the sign of a SU sponsored activity ... and get out there to have some FUN!" To get students socially involved, Tom Drouillard, social commiss­ioner, mentions just a few ofthe plans such as Welcome Week from August 25-30 including a Polish Wedding at Stepan Center to be held on the 30th. Homecoming, one of the most popular social events, will be held September 17-30, entertaining stu­dents with a Pep Rally/Fireworks Display, a concert at the ACC, happy hours, a parade and many other activities. 
whose style relaxed their worries over rent-controlled apartments and the druggist bills that Medicaid wouldn't touch. She was who they would be ifthey had money and could rent limousines. Compared to her, Liz Taylor, with her husbands and diamonds, was as common as a street­walker. Theyloved Bing Crosby, they said, but now he was dead. The Duchess of Windsor was sick and senile, and gossip said she had the tongue ofa shrew. Rose Kennedy had heartaches, and now she must be disappointed about Teddy. Young people had it hard; none of the Regulars would want to be young again, because ofall the temptations. All the young people that you heard about were either queer, or using dope, or raising babies that didn't have fathers. 
An old lady breathing elegance comes to the carousel. Who is she? Our tainted generation's solitary BOAST, that's all. Who need 
Lawrence Welk? Only Minnepolis. When did Liberace ever come to Central Park? Never, unless you paid him. Such a lady could only happenin New York, they said. Only in New York can the people lift their hands and touch the Stars. 
Between one st~r and another, there are cruel and infinite spaces. The stars never touch each other; and if you reach a star, you close your fingers on disappointment. Lovers and astronauts dream ofreaching the stars, but if I were a government, I would forget the astronauts. Juliet came closer to the truth of things than all the moonrocks Houston ever gathered. "Ifhe should die," she said, "take him and cut him out in little stars, and he will make the face of heaven so fine, that all the world will be in love with night." 
The Academic Commission's plans for this semester reveal a speaker series featuring Vincent Price with others to be announced at a later date. 
Social Services for students this semester consist of refrigerator rental, freshman registers (com­monly known as "dogbooks"), cam­pus mail and book exchanges. 
Major motion pictures atlow prices will be offered in the Engineering Auditorium. First semester features Rocky II on September 12-13, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest on Sep­
tember 23-24,  The  Deer Hunter  on.  
November  13-14  and  Kramer  vs.  
Kramer  on  December  5-6.  To  

entertain those old flick buffs and French film fanatics, African Queen will be shown on October 1~-16 while four French films, including Small Change will be shown November4-8. 
For those outdoor-types, Stepan Center will be the site ofan outdoor The grande dame of the merry-go­

roundwas, as I have said, a sweetheart 
to all the Central Park Regulars; but 
Old Tony swore that he recognized 
her as a:n actress, the love of his life, 
who used to play Shakespeare with 
the Barrymores. "I loved her fifty 
years ago," he said, "and I love her 
now. She's the reason I never got 
married, because I knew I would love 
her more than my wife." 

Tony lied a lot, of course, because all the Regulars knew he had been married twice, and had adored both wives 'til they died. He had mentioned three other actresses who had played Shakespeare with the Barrymores, and he claimed that he had been in love with all ofthem with a ·desperation that blocked his approach to the altar. He truly wanted us to believe he was more heart~smitten than the rest of us, so we humored him as the victim of unrequited passion, though one earth-bound housewife didn't hesi­tate to tell him he was full of sh-. 
OneJuly afternoon, Old Tony did not show up with the rest of us to watch his Heart's Desire make her advance from the limousine to the carousel. We wondered where he was, but he was not essential to the drama. Our Princess settled down on the Ben Hur cushions and waited for the music,to start. We waited, too; only nothing happened. Finally, when Tony stepped out of hiding from behind the bushes, we realized that the carousel had beenwaiting for him. 
Tony was duded up like a tofffrom 
a.by-gone age: silk hat, frock coat, gray vest, striped gray pants, boots, spats, and a gold-topped cane. He might have been dressed for a morning wedding, or as the pall 
barbecue and five live bands, 
featuring major touring acts for a low 
price. This Country Rock Jam takes 
place November 1. 

The Senior Arts Festival has been 
moved up to November 30 through 
December 6 and will highlight senior 
contributions in art, drama, dance, 
music and literature: 

Two old favorites, the Nazz and Darby's, return this year with help from the SU. The Nazz is open Wednesday through Saturday nights in the basement of LaFortune and offers free live entertainment for and by students. Darby's, the late-night place to study, converse or dream is open Sunday through Thursday nights from midnight to 3 a.m. in the .basement of LaFortune. Coffee, tea, soda, munchies, and fresh Dainty Maid doughnuts are available for 
those who wish to purchase them. 
Rich Coppola, SU director, offers a 
suggestion to all: "The Student 
Rev. Robert Griffin 

bearer at an afternoon funeral among fashionable Anglican tarts; but in either case, his costume needed correcting to a consistent style. Someone, recognizing cast-off finery, whispered hoarsely: "He must have borrowed them from the cabmen." The cabmen, of course, were the drivers of the horse-drawn hansolTh-cabs who hire out their hacks at the doors of the Plaza Hotel across from the Park. All their toggery. together couldn't outfit a respectable butler, but they gave Tony the appearance of a gate crasher from the docks at a London soiree. 
Old Tony moved across the green lawns of the Park as though he were a Barrymore playing Shakespeare. Stepping onto the carousel, only a mortal's distance away from his star, he bowed graciously, and asked if he might have the pleasure of sitting beside her. 
We held our breaths as she studied him up and down. Then she patted the cushion as an invitation to be comfortable, and the wooden horses pranced in the air to the brassybeatof the Blue Danube Waltz. 
We knew that she knew about Tony, and that she was a great lady, .worthy of all our love. It pleased and touched her to play Tony's game in the striped pants and the ridiculous coat, with the spats that were the unkindest cut of all in sartorial overkill. 
The carousel in Central Park is dedicated to the happiness of New' York children. It is the last best carousel left in America; and if you were there this summer, you wouldn't have to be a child to see how those wooden horses travel the distance among the differing worlds, 
Fr. Griffin is a regular Featu~es columnist. 
Patty Sheehan 


Union is only as good as the people who compose it. I encourage you to come to our offices and give us your ideas as well as your time when you can. Both are very much needed and appreciated. So remember you ought to be having fun!" Patty Sheehan, a senior from South Bend, is a regular Features contributor. 
~ I 
I 
I 
\ i 

Friday, August 29, 1980-page 13 
Campus 
Aug. 29 · 9a.m.-5p.m.-stepan mall, stepan center 12p.m.-5p.m.-nd cam­pus picnics, nd quads 
11 p.m. -rocky horror picture show, stepan cen­ter, admission $1. 
Aug30 
11 a.m.-2p.m. -german club picnic, holy cross hall, admission $1. 
9p.m.-1a.m.-polish wedding, stepan center, ad­mission $1. 
Aug 31 
1p.m.-4p.m.-nd-smc freshman athletic games, mcCandless green (rain: angela)
.. 
Parents ask courts for 
second chance 
EAST DE1ROJT• Mich. (AP) 
Stephanie Diesing was 3 months old when police found her, alone in an East Detroit house except for a watchful dog. Her parents, both men­tally retarded, had gove to a dentist ap.J?ointment. 
The chdd, suffering from malnutrition, was ordered placed in the care of her paternal grandmother. That was 11 months ago. 
On Wednesday, David and Dorothy Diesing kept another appointment. They went to court to ask a judge to give th.em back their daughter along wuh a new chance to prove themselves as parents. 
Before the hearing, their attorney, J ohnDevers Jr., had told a reporter: ''They're afraid that Stephanie doesn't know them, that they will be stran­gers in her life. They have become very concerned aoout the time Stephanie has been out of their home." ­
In a 15-minute juvenile court meeting, Macomb County Pro­bate Judge Robert Spier ex­tended the hearing an addi­tional 90 days. He said a final decision on Stephanie's custody would be issued when the Diesings have completed an American Red Cross child care course and resolve a dispute with their landlord. 
Devers ~aid the Diesings ' 
have been withholding rent
because of the landlord's alleged refusal to ·make repairs on thi!!ir rented house. 
··'The court and the Diesings are very happy that somebody finally has come up with a program to serve therr needs," Qevers said. ''They want to do it because they feel it will benefit Stephanie. '' 
Last October, Spier removed the child from the Diesing~' care on a negligence charge. Officers had found the child after the Diesings' dentist, worried when he saw his pa­tients arrive together but with­out their baby, inquired of her whereabouts. Told she was home, freshly dia,pered and guarded by the family dog, he alerted police. 
The Diesings' case has high· lighted the issue of the rights of retarded citizens, who are intering everyday society in ever-increasing numbers. 
Molarity 


Peanuts([. 
IF 'f'OU WANT TO MAKE 
IT WIT14 T~E C~ICKS; 
'(OU ~OULD 60 TO T~E 
6EACH,6ET A TAN AND 
PLA~ VOLLE't'BALL ... 

...·. . . . ~--­()1911e United Future Syndlc.lte, Inc. ~ •
s-zz 

ACROSS  26 Tie-ups  47 Laterally  
1 -it up  27 Musical  51 Certain  
(emote)  notes  tomb  
4 Symbol of  30 Unanimously 53 Wine casks  
power  31 Arias  54 Makes an  
8 Dude  32 Miami's  attempt  
12 Mr. Hoffer  county  55 Ivy League  
14 Sew quickly  33 Do the  school  
15 German dam  impossible  56 X·rated,  
16 ·Guy, gal  36 Kill Van~  perhaps  
and another  37 Oodles  57 Kennel  
19 Tolerance  38 Vexed  sounds  
20 In drastic  39 But, to  58 Junior  
fashion  Ovid  
21 To a great  40 Speeds up  DOWN  
degree  41 Sweethearts  1 Lowlife  
22 "The Way  42 Shredded  2 Comedian  
We -"  43 Pass the  Johnson  
23 "I'll ­ peak  3 Bearing  
You in ..."  44 Tavern  4 Soil  
enricher  

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 5 Room or 

bellum 6 Mutt 7 Widespread 
outbreak 8 Category 9 Periphery 
10 -Gwyn 11 Yarborough 
card 13 Felon 14 Cattleman's 
spread 
17 Grammatical term 
public 
22 Where Snowdon towers 
23 Sunbathes 24 Adjective ending 25 "I-if I 
could" 26-Hopkins 27 Twin 
crystal 28 Layabout 29 Bird food 31 Kitchen 
feature 32 Place to 
park 34 Forever 35 Mangle 
operator 40 -out 
(extirpate) 41 -slipper 42 -·turvy 43 Swabs 44 Ensconces 45 Malarial 
fever 46 Bobcat's 
kin 47 Young one 48 "-corny 
as Kansas ..." 49 Farm structure 50 Utopian place52 Onassis 
..------------------------. 
•BillCosby  Sept. 5  8:00p.m.  
Notre Dame ACC  18.50  
eTheCars  Sept.11  8:00p.m.  

Notte Dame ACC 18.50/17.50 
Tickets·now available at Student Union Ticket Office Hours: 12-4 phone 3031 
Michael Molinelli 

/ I I I I 


~ 
1 
l 1 
1 
~ 
l 

l 1 

OKAV, CONCENTf\ATE ON T~E TANJAND FORGET T~E VOLLEVBALL ... 



The Daily Crossword 

AII·Rights Reserved 
Refrigerators 
dorm room size students rates CALL 
TAYLOR NTAL 

277-2190 
f427 N. Ironwood 
r ' 
i i The Observer -SportsBoard Friday, August 29, 1980 -page14
I 
t \ ------------------------------------------------.-----------------------------------------------------~------~~~--­
i 
) Friday's Games American League Friday's Games American Conference 
I Baseball Minnesota (Zahn 10-17) at Houston (Ryan 9-8( at Chicago East Toronto (Stieb 11-9), 2;1st 
(Capilla 2-5( game, completion of Thurs. EastNational League 
Cincinnati (Pastore 10-6( at WL Pet. GB suspended game W l T Pct .I EAST Pittsburgh (Candelaria 9-13(, New York 76 50 .603 -California (Martinez 3-6) at Miami • "2. 1 0 .667 
(N) Baltimore 75 50 .600 Vz Baltimore (Stone 20-4), (N) Baltimore 2 1 0 . 667 
w L Pet. GB Atlanta (Boggs 7-8) at Lt. Louis Boston 67 56 .545 71!7. Oakland (Kingman 7-14) at New England 1 2 0 .333 Montreal Detroit .528 Boston (Eckersley 9-10), (N)
69 57 .548 -(Martinez 4-8(* (N) 66 59 9 1h N.Y. Jets 1 2 0 .333 
Pittsburgh 70 58 Philedelphia (Christenson 4-1) Cleveland 65 60 .520 10% Chicago (Trout 7-12) at Cleve­
.547-Buffalo 1 3 0 ,250
Milwaukee

Philadelphia 66 58 .532 2 at San Diego Oones 5-13), (N) 67 63 .515 11 land (Garland 6-6), (N) New York 58 68 .460 11 Montreal (Norman 4-2) at Los Toronto 52 73 .416 23 1h Milwaukee (Travers 12-5) at St. Louis 56 69 .448 12 1h Angeles (Goltz 6-7), (N) Detroit (Wilcox 11-9), (N) Chicago 50 75 .400 18 'h New York 0ackson 1-4) at San Seattle (Dressler 3-6) -at New Francisco (Ripley 7-6), (N) York Oohn 17-7), (N) 
Central 

I -
Kansas City 83 45 .648 Texas (Figueroa 3-7) at Kansas Saturday's Games Oakland 65 63 .508 18 City (Leonard 15-8), (N) 2 1 0 .667
WEST Pittsburgh
Texas 63 64 .496 

19% 2 2 0 .500
Houston

Houston at chicago Chicago 53 70 .431 27112 Saturday's Games 1 2 0 .333
CincinnatiHouston 72 55 .567 ­Cincinnati at Pittsburgh Minnesota 55 73 .430 28 1 2 0 .333

ClevelandLos Angeles 69 57 .548 .2% 

New York at San Francisco California 49 76 .392 32 1h Minnesota at Toronto 
Cincinnati 68 59 .535 4 
Atlanta at St. Louis, (N) Seattle 46 80 .365 36 Oakland at Boston 
San Franciscc 63 63 .500 8% 
Philadelphia at Dan Diego, 2 chicago at Cleveland 
Atlanta 63 64 .496 9 (f-N) Texas at Kansas City San Diego 53 74 .411 19 
Montreal at Los Angeles, (N) California at Baltimore,(N) Milwaukee at Detroit, (N)Thursday's Games Seattle at New York, (N) West 
Sunday's Games 

Minnesota 5, Toronto 5, 14 Sunday's games Kansas city 3 0 0 1.000 Thursday's Games innings, suspended, cerfew Chicago at Cleveland,2 Seattle 2 1 0 .667 
< ' Cincinnati at Pittsburgh Baltimore 13, California 8 Milwaukee at Detroit San Diego 1 2 1 .375
Houston at Chicago 
Boston 3, Oakland 2 

Minnesota at Toronto Oakland 1 2 0 .333
Houston 4, Chicago 1 Atlanta at St. Louis Detroit 11, Milwaukee 7 Denver 1 2 0
Cincinnati 4, Pittsburgh 0 New York at San Francisco,2 California at Baltimore .333 
New York 6, Seattle 5 

Seattle at New York 
ll 
St. Louis II, Atlanta 2 Montreal at Los Angeles, 2 ­
; Texas 10, Kansas City 6 Oakland at Boston 
l 
Only games sceduled Philadelphia at San Diego 
Only games Scheduled 

Texas at Kansas City 
I 
I Football ... NFC 
~ 
rhla Thursday, Ftl.dq.j and Saturday at River City Recorda..
i 
National Conference 
[cont. from page 15] 

F~t eral veterans angered over their 
contracts. Then there was the
nliDNICiHt 

Washington 3 0. o: 1.000 
continuing quarterback ·con­
Dallas 3 0 0: 1.000 
flict between Vince Ferragamo
l Philadelphia 3. 0. 0: 1.000 
and Pat Haden. And the Rams
St. Louis 1. 2 0. .333 
must hang on until runningN.Y. Giants 1. 2 1. .333 
back Wendell Tyler (injured in
ffiADN ESS SALE
~ ; a summer auto accident) is l healthy. But they proved they I < could overcome injuries and ad­
(with ND or SmC l.d. only!)

I versity last year. A weak div-. Central ision should help them do the same this season. New 0 r leans has the makings of a good, young team with 
--Detroit 2. 1 
0 .667 Coach Dick Nolan's Flex De­
Tampa Bay 2. 1 0 .667 fense. Quarterback Archie
tmrma ALL ALBUffiS-S1.00 OFF-NO LlffiiT 
Minnesota 
2. I. 0 .667 Manning, healthy at last, made Chicago L 2: 0 
.333 strides toward stardom last sea­
Green Bay o. 3: 1 
.125

j ;. rm~mrm ALL TAPES-Sl.OO OFF-NO LlffiiT! son. But the Saints lack the .. 
depth to overtake the Rams and should settle for second and a
ij 
tmrmrm BLANK TAPES-S1.00 OFF-NO LimiT! possible wild card. 
Atlanta's Grits Blitz defense is a distant memory now and the Falcons must reconstruct theWest
. fmlm[m RECORD CRATES-S1.00 OFF 
unit after allowing 388 points last season. On offense, No. 1 draft Junior Miller moves in a,t 
I 
tight end giving Steve Bart­
I rmrmliil ND-Smc checks cashed up to S20.00 
San Francisco 2 1 0 kowski another inviting target
.667 

over purchase amount Los Angeles 1 to go with Wallace Francis and
I ~ 2 0 .333
New Orleans 1 Alfred]enkins.
2 0 .333
Atlanta 0. San Francisco's offense was
3 0 .ooo 
third best in the NFC so the
rQtmti3 CUT-OUTS-BUY 1, GET 1FREE! blame for the 2-14 season must 
be accepted by the defense, hich surrendered 416 points.rmrmtm GIANT ALBUm POSTERS AVAILABLE! The 49ers hope rookies Ji 
i Stuckey, a lineman, and Kenna 1 i Turner, a linebacker, can beginI , rQI(Rir0 DISCWASHERS-S2.00 OFF! the defensive reconstruction.
I I 
;, .-·~
I I · 
I ( ' ' 
I , 
~rm~ Open ~ntll midnight this Thutsday, lill() w4~11[) ! ( l I Ftlday and Saturday ~mtt ~()~~s ()IHA 
j ' Granger Store only (Across from University Park Mall)
I I 
I I I RIVER CITY RECORDs·. 
J 
I I Both young men and women
I I "NORTHERN INDIANA'S LARGEST SELECTION 
J ) . 
I Part ti!"e pizza makers
J 
I J. and BEST PRICES 
Part time waiteresses
509 70 U.S. 31 North River City is owned and operated 3Miles North of campus next to by recent ND graduates. Thank
}~· 
I I Al's Supermarket 2 7 7-4242 _ you for your continued support 1 
.tr•

f I \
I f lnum hf! 2 I vn. old\ Call Kathv at 217-5~00 
--~-. 
I I 
( J ( I 
' ' 
rr 


-•.. 
The Observer -Spons Friday,August 29, 1980-page 15 

Watch out for the Eagles in 1980 NFC chase 
EAST DIVISION; Philadel-Speaking of treadmills, meet
(AP) -Last year Los Angeles 

phia Eagles, Dallas Cowboys, the New York Giants, who will 
surprised the rest of the Nat­

Washington Redskins, St. spend another season rebuild­
ional Football Conference. This 

Louis Cardinals, New York ing. That's 17 rebuilding sea­
time it's Philadelphia's turn. · 

Giants. sons now, an alltime construe-
Coach Dick Vermeil has been 

CENTRAL DIVISION; Chi-tion record.
retooling the Eagles for a coup­

cago Bears, Tampa Bay Bucs, No team in the NFL had a
le of years and now his inves­

Detroit Lions, Minnesota better second half in 1979 than
tment of time is ready to pay 

Vikings, Green Bay Packers. the 7-1 record Chicago put to-
off. It means tilting the balance 

WESTERN DIVISION; Los gether. Now the Bears seemed
of power in the East Division 

Angeles Rams, New Orleans in position to make a genuine
first, but the retirements of 

Saints, Atlanta Falcons,.. San title bid.
Dallas' Roger Staubach and 

Francisco 49ers. The key offense is remark-
Cliff Harris may already have 

The Eagles' steady progress is able Walter Payton, a four-timeaccomplished that. 
reflected in the fact that seven NFC rushing champ. But the
The Rams remain the class of 

Philadelphia players were Bears' greatest improvement
the West, where the competi­

named to the Pro Bowl last has been on defense. They were
ton is somewhat slim. And in 

January. Vermeil has construct-22nd in the league in 1978 when
the Central Division, Tampa 

ed a quality team and the return Armstrong
Bay's Cinderella act could come Neill took o 
of All Pro linebacker Bill ver as coach and, after two years 
to a screeching halt thanks to 

Bergey, who missed last season with him, they were sixth.
the revitalized Chicago Bears. 

with a knee injury, could be the Cinderella's glass slipper did-
So, when the 16-week regular 

Eagle edge over Dallas. n't quite fit Tampa Bay last year 
season is completed, this is how 

Wide receiver Harold Car-as the Bucs came up short in the
the standings should (or, at 

michael, running back Wilbert NFC title game against Losleast, could) look: 
Montgomery, and quarterback Angeles. But this team came an Ron Jaworski are skilled per-awfully long way in a very short formers and the veteran of-time and has some quality per­fensive line is opiated by formers especially on defense . tackles Stan Walters and Jerry Lee Roy Selmon, keystone of Sisemor, both Pro Bowlers. the Bucs' 3-4 line, was NFL 
Dallas lostStaubach from the Defensive Player ofthe Year, in offense and Harris from the de-1979. fense and it will be a double-Detroit's hopes for a revival 
[cont. from page 16] barrelled challenge for the center on No. 1 draft choice "Mike (Courey) is quick Cowboys to overcome. Danny Billy Sims, the ex-Heisman 
. . . Quarterbacks 

·is able to el~de the rusher and possibility he would consider doesn't have a real strong arm: White, the quarterback-in-Trophy winner who gives theget rid ofthe ball, .. Devine said. starting a freshman quarter­but gets the job done. Tim wait-Lions a legitimate groundWhen asked if there was a back Devine side-stepped with , (Koegel) has trouble eluding waiting, gets his chance at threat to go with the passing of
another grin. 

the pass rush. He had such good lastndy Hughes inherits Harris' Gary Danielson. It was Daniel­"I won't say we will, and I protection in high school free safety spot, alongside son's leg injury on the eve oflastwon't say we won't." 
(Cincinnati Moeller) that he Charlie Waters, who missed last season that spelled disaster forDevine was complimentary didn't have to. Greg (Knafelc) season because ofknee surgery. Detroit.
of the freshman duo's poise on has a sore arm, but when he's in Also returning is defensive line-Jim Marshall has retired and

... Tickets 
the playing field. 

there the offense moves." man Ed "Too Tall" Jones, back Chuck Foreman has been trad­
"They took over when they 

Though Devine stressed the from his short-lived heavy-ed to New England and with came in like they had been here depth at quarterback, saying weight boxing career. Fran Tarkenton, Alan Pag, Carl [cont. from page 16] all their lives. They stepped into "it's the most talent at any pos-Having gotten over the hill at Eller and Mick Tingelhoff leav­the huddle the first day like they tion," and his confidence in last, Washington is ready to ing a year ago, you need a score­the fact that the first game is a had been here forever. They're each of the five reading con-climb the next one. They may card to keep up with theweek from Saturday, we just neck and neck. I've never seen tenders, he stated "rhe guy who have to do it without running Minnesota Vikings. This team iscan't wait," Busick stated. two, I've never seen one, fresh­starts (the Purdue game) will backJohn Riggins, who walked clearly in transition after a de­He emphasized that appli­an come in and be as far as not have to be looking over his out over his contract. The Red-cade as the perennial Centralcations for tickets will be advanced a these two super shouler, whoever it is will be skins had a first-round draft Division Champions.
scrutinized and those students kids." 
playing from start to finish. Of pick for a change and chose The packers lost quarter­who were never mailed Devine did stress that the course, however, ifhe gets hurt wide receiver Art Monk from backs David Whitehurst andapplications will have priority depth at the general spot is one badly, naturally someone will Syracuse. He is under 30, which Lynn Dickey in the first prep­over those who failed to return he is glad to have. 
come offthe bench andgo in for makes him almost unique in season game and center Larrymailed forms. However, if the "Hopefully, they'll (other him." recent club history. McCarren the next week. 
number of tickets available teams) have to prepare to play Despite his comments to the New coach Jim Hanifan says Los Angeles has won the NFCafter 5 p.m. today is less than against all kinds of quarter­Skywriters, Devine refused to St. Louis is ready to win, "right West for a record seven straightthe number necessary to fill backs, plus a punter who can pinpoint a starting quarter-now." To do that, the Cards years. Get set for No. 8 al­requests, Busick stated that a throw and run it, plus a flanker back, leaving the flying jour-may have to depend on aging though this time the Rams may lottery may be necessary. (Holohan) who can throw,­nalists, the Boilermakers, and Jim Hart as quarterback. It was not make it back to the Super"The fairest way to distribute " Devine· said. 
even the Irish team wondering the use ofHart instead ofyoung Bowl.
would obviously be a lottery," When pressed, the retiring just who'll get the nod in the Steve Pisarkiewicz that led to Training camp was somewhatgive mentor touched on the talents
he said, "but we must Notre Dame-Purdue season the firing of Bud Wilkinson, disrupted by the walkout ofsev­
priority to those than never of his three senior quarter­opener next Saturday. Hanifan's predecessor. Sounds
received the information." backs. ,.............................................................................~li=k:e~a~tr:e:a:d:m:i~ll~,~d:o:e:sn:'~t~it:?............~-.~[c:o:n:t.~onpagel~ 
ARMY ROTC PROVIDES 
merit scholarships -up to $20,000 II! 
leadership development CALL
management training (219) 283-6264
adventure employment opportunity Graduate from Notre Dame as an Army Officer 

. :. 
< 

f ,
• 
... --~--------------------~~--~----~~------~--------------~ 
Friday, August 29, 1980-page 16
rts 


I. 
i i 
The man with the 6-5 vocabulary 

-
Scott Zettek can afford to be honest. 
"When you're as big as I am, you'll find that most people aren't going to argue with you," he points out. "I've always been an honest person ­sometimes to the point ofoffending people. But I don't mean for that to happen. It's justthatiliketo be me so that people know where I'm coming from." 
~ Of course, some people mistake his "cannot­
I 
I tell-a-lie" attitude for naughtier traits like ar­rogance or conceit. He doesn't want that to
i 
happen either. 
"I do care what people think about me," he emphasizes strongly. And remember, this is one who always tells the truth. 
"It's just that I won't change what I think or what I believe for every person I meet." 
l 
And that, depending of course, on your point of view, is very reassuring. Be­cause Scott Zettek's hon­esty, while not always universally palatable, tends 

Scott Zettek 

to be both refreshing and enlightening. Take, for instance, his perspective 
J
j on the very game he plays. 
"Some people never realize that football is only a small part of life," he conjectures. "At least it is for me. In fact, a lot ofpeoplegetinto related fields like broadcasting, coaching, sports writing ­
even playing interhall, to compensate for the fact that their playing days are over. 
"But you have to realize that football, or any form ofathletics, may not be a substantial base for your life. Players get hurt, coaches get fired, people tend to think ofyou as a commodity or an entertainer and the game as being a show, com­plete with bands, cheerleaders, publications, et cetera." 
As a result, points out Zettek, people tend to overlook the fact that those helmeted droids on the football field are, in reality, human beings. 
"They tend to stereotype football players as big, strong and dumb," he complains. And then he elaborates. 
"Whenyou compare the average football player to the average student at a school like Notre Dame, thefootball player does seem, with a few exceptions, less intellegent. But I don't think 
, that's a fair comparison to make. "First ofall, a football player has to dedicate six 
I 
I j 
i 

to eight hours a day to football. Some students can't find three hours on Saturday just to attend the game. For us, it's the major part of our life during the first semester. And we don't just lay around during that time, eating steak and waiting for kickoff. We're getting beat up on the practice field. Then it's meetings, films -I seldom get back to the dorm before nine or ten at night. Then it's time to study and I'll be very honest with you; sometimes I just don't feel like it." 
But he does it. . .study, that is. Because he realizes that, in all probability, this will be his last year of organized football. With two major knee operations behind him, he's skeptical about his chances of getting drafted by a professional football team. 
"But that's not the only reason," he adds. "Hey, I want to get an education. And I think it's good that Notre Dame demands so much ofits athletes in the classroom. Around here, people aren't only concerned with a player's rushing average, they're worriedabouthisgradeaverage. And thatiswhat's really important." 
In fact, if Scott Zettek had his way, he'd be considered a student first and a football player second. 
"You wanna know what I really hate?" he asks, getting excited. "I hate it when people sometimes assume that a football player has to be stupid. I get tired of sitting in class and have other students stare at me when I make a point or answer a question correctly. They say, 'Hey, that guy plays football and he can think too.' 
"It really surprises most of them," he says, grinning slyly. But, for Zettek, it is no surprise. It is, or so he believes, exactly how it should be. 
"When I leave here, the important thing will be my education," he stresses. "They push that here and that's what I respect most about this place. I hope Notre Dame never loses sight of the importance of a good education. Because that's really the bottom line." 
You can't knock a guy for telling the truth. Especially when he's 6-5, 245, and probably has a bigger vocabulary than you do. 

by Beth Huffman Sports Editor 
Dan Devine began his press conference 'fkh the Big 10 Skywriters yesterday l:>y offer­ing to introduce his team, posi­tion by position. The Irish head coach, now in his sixth season, began with the offense and deft­ly sketched 11 circles on the black board. Before turning a­round to face the expected flush of questions, Devine quickly drew a large question mark, intended to represent the the starting Notre Dame signal caller, in the circle. 
With a smile, the 55-year-old Devine, confronted the jour­nalists by saying "I guess that will answer a few questions." 
Devine could not really be pinned down at all where the quarterback position was con­cerned, eluding direct questios, but giving slight indications as to the five top contenders' strengths and weaknesses. 
"The three older kids (Mike Courey, Tim Koegel, and Greg Knafelc) are in great shape and have had good falls," Devine said. "The two freshmen (Scott Grooms and Blair Kiel) are un­real. Kiel is nailed down a bit because ofhis punting, though. 
"I don't want to penalize Kiel, but it is hard to get a kid to work on punting and quarter­backing.'' 
Devine did state with con­fidence though, that Kiel would be his number-one punter this fall. 
"Grooms reminds me ofa big Joe Theismann, not as quick, but I'm not sure anyone is as quick as Joe. He has a quick release, like Theismann and he 
[cont. on page 15] 
Lotterypossible 
by Beth Huffman Sports Editor 
Approximately 350-400 students have been placed on a waiting list for 1980 Irish football tickets, according to Michael Busick, Notre Dame's ticket manager. 
Busick's office has been flooded with requests for tickets by transfer St\ldents and first-year graduate students who did not receive notification ofticket sales by mail during the summer. Along with the trans­fer students and graduate students wanting tickets are a host ofstudents who failed to or "forg-ot" to return their ticket request forms. 
"We will make every attempt to take care of as many people as possible," Busick said. 
He explained that the new students were not notified by summer mail because ofthe late date his office received their names and addresses. Freshman w~re sent applications, however, because they were notified of acceptance to the University much earlier than transfer and graduate students. 

"We were afraid to mail the 
applications so late because 
they might not have been 
received," Busick commented. 
The University instituted a policy requiring students to purchase football tickets for the first time in its history late last spring. Prior to this aca­demic year, Busick emphasized, the students were given tickets free and an income was not collected by the ticket office. The ticket manager's statement put to rest any rumors that students were "secretly charged" in the past for tickets on their tuition bills. 
Retu.rning students were mailed applications over the summer and required to return that request form with $24 by 
June 20. "We did not enforce that deadline," Busick said, "We accepted applications all through the summer. We were very lenient because this is the first year the students have ha,d to do anything like this." 
In the past only Saint Mary's students have been billed for tickets, but Busick stated that collection was never a great problem. 
The ticket office reserved 8,000 tickets for students this football season, approximately 1 ,000 less than last year. Unsure how to estimate student response to billing for tickets, Busick contacted other major universities for advice. The mean response from others was to expect a 15-20% negative reply to the sales. Busick, confident that Notre Dame's athletic reputation would draw student response, opted to count on only a 10-12% negative response. 
Today at 5 p.m. has been set by Busick as the close of advanced ticket sales. Those who reserved tickets by mail and have not contacted Busick or picked up tickets by closing time will forfeit their tickets. Busick will then take those tickets returned by students who were selected for the band and various other activities, along with those originally reserved for transfer students and distribute them to those on the waiting list. "Because ofthe quantity on the waiting list and 
[cont. on page .dj 
J ~ 
I I 
:~ 
I I 
: j 
I J 
I I I I I 
I 
~ 
' 
J 
I 
i 
1 
I j 
r i ~ 
I I 
I I { I, 
I I 1 'I I ' I 
I { ~ 
( 
I 
I 
' I I 
~ 
: f f ( 
I 
I I i 
. ! I } 
I) 
J 
I I I r 
I I j I I I ; 
I I 
: j '
I 
I
I) 
)
iI I 
I I 1 J 
I
I I I r I I ~ I f I I 

Nearly 400 Notre Dame students have been put on a waiting !ist (or_ season tickets to 1980 Fighting Iris/) football games, znclur!zng the September 6 clash with Heisman Trophy candidate Mark Hermann and the Purdue &ilermakers. 
1 I f I
I~ ; 
(.(' ( I 
( ( 



