. 
• • • Midpoint -Pages 6-7 

-
. 
VOL. XIV, NO. 104 ·WEDNESDAY·, MARCH 12, 1980 
Phillips gives SLF fans a frank view of life 
bv Laura Larimore 14-year-old mute orphan mak­
Senior StaffReporter ing her way through life peddl­
ing dirty pictures and selling 
With dramatic delivery, one h~r body for a drug-addict of the newest American short 
ptmp_.ll. d 1 d · h · 1'
story writers read two selec­Pht tps e ve tnto t e gtr s tions from her latest work, mind ehciting impressions of a Black Tickets, last night in the world of horrors. Obscene view Library Auditorium. Sensual in followed obscene view in such nature, both dealt with a char­stark description that at times it acter's inner perceP.tion of life. forced muffled laughter from 
Jayne Anne Phtllips, at 26 the audience. critically acclaimed, spoke to an In addition to Black Tickets, overflow crowd of 450, as the Phillips at present serves as a Sophomore Literary Festival fellow at the Fine Arts Work continued. She opened with Center in Provincetown, Mass. "Home" a story about "love, Her awards include a selection guilt, and survival." In a in Best American Short Stories humorous vein, she described 1979 and Prize Stories 1980: the subject as ''close to heart O'Henry Award. She is also a here in Indiana.'' · recipient of the 1979 St. 
"Home" portrayed the Lawrence A ward for Fiction and 
Construction of the Stephan Chemical Building creates problems between students and
human interaction between the National Endowment for the 
security. Story on p. 9. [photo by john Macor] _
mother and 23-Jear-oTd Arts Fellowship. 
daughter. Challenge by her 
mother's ever present concern 
with _ her life, especially its Leaders in the race, 
sexual aspects, the daughter 
struggled with self-doubt and 
guilt. 

Carter, Reagan bring campaign to deep South 
Her mother simultaneously . tries to avoid any contact that President Carter and Repub­Edward M. Kennedy. you're a national candidate." "We have not been wiped would result in a reawakening lican Ronald Reagan marched His Alabama margin was White House Press Secretary out," he said, forecasting that of her sexual appetite, long through Georgia, Florida and almost as lopsided, and in J ody Powell put it more point­economic woes will ultimately since shelved. She attempts to Alabama _yesterday burying Florida he was reaping two· edly, saying Kennedy can't win turn the tide against Caner. understand her child wtthout their White House rivals m a thirds of the vote while the presidency because a Conservative Reagan was the 
, endangering her own safe shell. three-state set of Southern Kennedy captured only 16 Democratk nominee needs the runaway victor over former 
Following an enthusiastic re· presidential primary elections. percent. South. United Nations Ambassador ception, Phtllips continued with Carter won his home Georgia Carter telephoned his sup­Kennedy's deputy campaign George Bush in all three states. "Lechery." She advised all Democratic primary by a tower­porters in Birmingham, Ala., manager, Patrick Lucey, said Florida was the closest thing to 13-year-olds to leave. ing margin, polling 11 votes for and said the results show "it's the challeng~r got about what a contest; there it was Reagan 
"Lechery" was the voice of a every ballot cast for Sen. not feasible to be elected unless he expected m Carter country. 56 percent, Bush 31. 
· The former California gov­
ernor said his Florida victory 
exceeded his fondest hope. "I 
didn't dare let myself hope for 

Rectors reject kegproposalin HPCdebate 
it," he said in a telephoned talk 
to supponers in Tampa. 
by Barb Bn"dges hall presidents showed however Fr. Porterfield reafftrmed CLC representative should ac­Herb Harmon, the R~an 
StaffReporter that a majority of the halls felt last night that there is an curately reflect the feelings of :ampaign manager mFlonda,
that their rectors would favor implicit understanding among 5aid yesterday's outcome shows 
[continued on page 8)
The HPC discussed the having kegs at parties. the south quad rectors that the that it will be difficult for CLC' s rejection of the "keg anyone, including former Pres­proposal," as well as other ident Gerald R. Ford, "to tssues concerning alcohol and effectively compete and play social activities, last night at a catch up."
Poetess Brooks reads at SMC
meeting in Sorin Hall. Bush had said he hoped for a 
The keg froposal stated that respectable second place in 
well-known poem, "The Mother," commonly

''each hal be permitted to by Mary Leav£tt Southern country he had all but 1 determine its own policy rela­StaffReporter thought to be about abortion. Brooks contra­conceded to Reagan. His I 
dicted this belief. "This poem is often called the 

tive to the use of KEGS in and campaign manager, James I 
only in 'party' rooms." Student "It's a pleasure to share my poetry with you." abortion poem, and many people think that I am Baker, said, ''We were not as Body President-elect, Paul Gwendolyn Brooks, Pulitzer Prize winner and speaking from personal experience,'' Brooks pleased with our results as we l Riehle informed the HPC that Poet Laureate of Illinois, in this way introduced related. "I, myself, have never had an abortion, might have been.'' But he the proposal failed to capture herself and her poetry to a crowd of approxi­but· I know people that have. This poem is not added to that understatement a the necessary 2/3 majority. mately 100 in Stapleton Lounge last mght at really about abortion, but, rather, it is about vow that Bush will compete all 
Eleven members favored the Saint Mary's College. motherhood, I feel qualified to write this poem the way to the GOP convention. proposal, six opposed it, and ."Carl Sandburg always said, 'Poetry is the though because, to me, organic observatton is Baker said the Florida re­Fr. Van Wolvlear abstained. achievement ofsynthesis between hyacinths and the essence of knowledge.'' turns in particular had Iowe~ed 
Riehle reported to the HPC biscuits,''' Brooks said, ''but my definition is Perhaps the most popular reading of the Bush's expectations in the pri­that he felt there was ''no that poetry is life distilled. It's not as rich and evening was "The Life of Lincoln West," a mary just ahead in Illinois. 
logical reason given for voting embroidered as Sandburg's definition, but it's poem about, ''a little boy whose major crime was Baker said he now hopes for ••a against it.'' short and easy to remember." the fact that he had the nerve to come· from respectable third-olace show­

Van Wolvlear alluded to the Brooks proceeded to read both personal and Africa, looking African." Brooks' reading was ing" there.~ In fact, that would fact that the issue had been national favorites from her collection of poems, vivid and enthusiastic, and the audience be a major blow to Bush in a debated ad nauseum, but gave stopping after each one to speak to the audience applauded her at every opportunity. primary he has called cruciaL no logical reason whf the about. the poems, herself and the black In addition, Brooks read a _poem celebrating Kennedy didn't even cam­proposal had to be voted expenence. _ marriage and told the story of her own meeting paign and the outcomes were down, ' ' said Riehle. ''When I was younger and living in Chicago in with her husband. no surprise, but the margins 
According to Riehle the the 60's, Chicago poets used to just walk into a "I was at a NAACP youth meeting," Brooks were. Carter's Georgia victory reason Fr. David Porterfield, tavern and begm reciting their poetry," Brooks recalled. "My husband-to-be had come to find eclipsed Kennedy's home-state the CLC representative for the said. "Now, obviously if you want someone to 'the girl who wrote poetry' as he was a writer triumph in Massachusetts one South Quad rectors, voted listen to your poetry in the middle of a crowded himself. I saw him standing in the doorway, week ago. The Democratic against the measure was that tavern, you must have poetry that is relevant to looking so handsome. I said to my girlfriend, challenger gained 6 5 percent of 
Porterfield felt he had to repre­their lives. Not Yeats or even Eliot, but 'Look, there's the man I'm going to marry,' and the vote there. sent the feelings of the majority something relevant. So, we'd just walk in there she yells out across the room to him, 'Hey, she The Carter campaign victory 
"

of the rectors, not solely his and say, 'Look folks, we gonna lay some poetry wantsto meet you. party in Orlando, Fla., was a own. on you. '" 
[cont£nued on page 3] [continued on page 4]
A spontaneous hand count of One of Brooks' first readings was her 





News in btief 
Wednesday, March 12, 1980 -page 2 
judge sequesters Pinto _fury 
Meyers speaks outfor ERAvote 
afterfirst day deliberations 
WINAMAC, Ind. (AP) -The iury in Ford Motor Co.'s reckless. h.omicide trial, cauti?ned by the judge "not to yield your opmion to your fellow JUrors JUSt so you can return a verdict," retired last night after some 6 1/2 hours of deliberations. The jurors deliberated about an hour after breaking for dinner, then asked Pulaski Circuit Court J edge Harold R. Staffeldt to be released until this morning. Earlier, the jury returned to the courtroom to hear Staffeldt repeat the 43 legal instructions he gave them before deliberations began Monday afternoon. They had asked for th~ session, an~ severa! jurors ~ook notes. Staffeldt spent 45 mmures rereadmg~ the mstrucuons, then told the jury not to consider "the effect of the verdict on the state or the defen~:'lnt or whe~her the verdict would be pleasing to the court. 
Water contamination causes chaosin Fredricksburg 
FREDERICKSBURG, Va. (AP)-Water possibly contaminated by spilled kerosene leaked into the !'torage pon~ of this Vi~~inia city's water treatment plant yesterday, forcmg the facility to shut down for the second time in four days. Gov.John Dalton declared a state of emergency and schools an some businesses remained closed. The shutdown _left th~ city with a 2~-hour supply of water in its tanks. Neighbonns Spotsylvama County was supplementing the water supply wah 1 million gallons a day, about one-third the amount Fredericksburg normally uses. A break in a Colonial Pipeline Co. line sent 63,000 gallons of kerosene into the Rapican River last Thursday. 

Weather 
. An ~0 perceO:t chance of light snow developing today with hig~s m ~he mid ?Os. An 80 percent chance of li~ht snow tont~ht with lows m. the low 30s. Light snow tapenng off to flurnes Thursday wtth steady or slowly falling temperatures. 


Ca111P-_us________. 
12:15pm MICROBIOLOGY DEPT. SEMINARS, "regulatory mechanisms in cell-mediated immunity," dr. ruth neta, nd. GALVIN AUD. 
l-3pm EXHIBITION, "artworks" univ. n. kentucky, spons: isis gallery, ISIS GAlLERY 
1:15pm LECTURE, "the older adult & issues of everyday life," dr. ~onald horning, smc, spons: sociology, anthropol­ogy & social work, 351 MADELEVA. 
3:30pm LECTURE, "japane'ie economy in transition, " prof. martin bronfenbrenner, duke u. spons: business adm. MEM. LIB. AUD. 
3:3~pm SEMINAR, "chemical reaction & numerical 
turbulence,''. dr. james c. hill, iowa st. u. 356 FITZPATRICK, 
spons: chemtcal engr. 
4:30pm SEMINAR, "gangliosides as receptors for cholera in tetanus toxin and sendai virus," dr. Iars svennerholm, u. of goteborr, sweden. 123 NIEUWLAND, spons: chemistry dept. 
6:30pm MEETING, alpha phi omega service fraternity, new members welc,.ome, ZAHM HALL BASEMENT. . 
6:30 pm LECTURE, "a christian understanding of being,' prof. frederic!< d. wilhelmesen, u. of dallas, GALVIN AUD. SPONS: gen'l program. 
7pm MEET YOUR MAJOR-ARTS AND LETTERS PREPROFESSIONALS, spons km weigert, asst. deam arts & letters, 121 O'SHAG. · 
7:30pm LECTURE, "managing contradictions in the abundant society: a christian search for alternatives," dr. denis ~oulet, nd.CARROLL HALL SMC, spons: comm. on education for justice. 
8pm LECTURE, diana nyad, spon : women's opportunity week, LITTLE THEATRE MOREAU. 
8pm SOPH. LIT. FESTIVAL, john cage, author and composer, MEMORIAL UB. AUD. 
8pm ACADEMIC, meet your major: arts and engineers, spons:km weigecr, asst dean arts & letters, 121 O'SHAG. 
11 pm LIVE MUSIC, live music in the pub, herman jorgenson & friends, spons: senior bar, SENIOR BAR. 
by Sal Granata StaffReporter 

Heckling from anti-ERA par­tisans temporarily marred an information session on the E­qual Right Amendment spon­sored by the Notre Dame Women's Organization last night at the Nazz. 
Martina Meyers, Campus Campaign Coordinator for the National Organization for Wo­men (NOW} ERA ratification drive, was the principle speak­er. Meyers delivered her group's view on the ERA and fielded questions from the audi­ence. ''I'd like to talk about what the ERA will do, not whr,t if won't do," she affirmed. 
''I'd like to raise the ERA as an idea that will benefit men and women, an idea worthy of the Constitution,'' Meyers said. 
NOW supports ERA mainly as a human rights issue promi­sing economic equality for all Americans. Meyers pointed out obvious economic dispari-. ties between working men and women. "Women earn 59 cents to every dollar men make," she said. 
As a college grass roots organizer, Meyers elaborated on the inequities women college grads suffer. "Women who go 
, to college can expect to earn $1,000 less than a man with an eighth grade education,'' she said, a~ding that pay scales and promotion rates for women are Inferior to men's across the board. Passage of the ERA however, will be a benefit to this genera­tion, she continued. ''It will be our generation that will benefit from it or our generation that will pay the cost if it doesn't pass." . Meyers quoted a statistic that projected 70 percent of all women into the work force by 1990. In academia, as in other fields, the problem is serious, Meyers said. She commented 
_The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Ann ''Fingers··· Monaghan Asst. Night Editor: Danny Tarullo, Mike Jans <;,opy Editor: MB Moran Layout Staff Mary Leavitt, Patty Sheehan · News Editor: Mike Shields Editornu Layout: Ann Gales Features Layout: John Mac or Sports Layout: John Smith Typists: Carol Cornwall, Paula "I didn't do it" Shea, Katie Bigane, Liz Huber EMT: Kim ''Gift From God'' Convey Proofreader: John Chaussee ND Day Editor: Patsy ''Ignition'' Campbell Ad Design: Anne Fink Photographer: John Macor Guest Appearances: Paul, "Roses" Schuster, Mark, Rosemary, Bill, Mikey 
Last Week's "Paperofthe Week" Ryan Ver Berkmoes and Co. 
Tltt Obnrwr (USPS • 1201 Is publiatlecl Monday th,..tl Fn.My n­cept during 111m llld wleden plrildl. The Observer Ia palllilllld Ill 1M 
students If Nltn o... _, Sl6lt Mary'a c ...... Se,mtJIIja a_,• ,..,.._ tw sa I* yew 11• ,_ 111M111rl frtm The ObServer....0. IIIII Q,NICrtDIIIII,I....._ ... s-et dill 1*t1D1 ptld,....,. DIIM, I• 
...... ... 
The Observer is 1 ntl-'lr II till ~tid Prwa. All .... [...
riflltJ ..,_.... 
on the increasingnumberof sex discrimination suits being brought against universities, including Notre Dame. 
Meyers criticized what she discerned as a trend in recent years for couns to gloss over sex discrimination smts decla­red under Tide VII, the fair pay and employment act. "I firmly believe people should be jud­ged by their personal qualifica­tions·, not their sex," she stated. 
She proceeded to explain how under Title VTI, the claimant beaB the burden of proving sex discrimination, while other civil rights amendments place the proof in the hands of the government. 
Ewnomically, ERA ratifica­tion becomes more ur~ent as family structures contmue to change radically, she noted. ''A larger number of women who are working have to sup­port themselves,'' she said. "Only 7 percent of all American households are composed of the traditional nuclear family.'' 
NOW is concerned that those 
grours of women living alone or 
runmng families are not ade­

quately protected by current 
legislation, she said. 

ERA will not break up the family but will cope with the problems that have overcome the family,'' Meyers said. 
Meyers said NOW also feels the need for a revised view of Social Security. ''Women have already frozen to death in Maine because they didn't have enough money from their Social Security checks to pay for fuel oil." As it stands now a woman receives only three-fifths of her husband's Social Security should he die, regardless of her work in the home. Her husband shares none of her own bene­fits. 
While Meyers stressed eco­nomics, several members of her audience who identified them­.;;elves as not in favor of ERA, attacked the validity of a Con­stitutional amendment guaran­teeing women's equality, and sparred with Meyers on the question. 
Meyers replied that "it is possible to support ERA and be anti-abortion.'' She listed se­veral groups, including the AFL-CIO, that back ERA but have not taken a stand on abortion as well as two pro­ERA, anti-abortion Catholic groups, including Catholics Acts for the ERA. 
"It is unfortunate that those who are opposed to abortion taint the ERA with the issue," Meyers observed, adding that ''feminists for life see the bigger issue.' ' 
Meyers explained the pur­pose of a NOW organization on campus as fulfilling three signi­ficant functions. First, it would provide and collect information concerning the ERA campaing. Second, a Notre Dame force could exert influence on the coming battle in Illinois where ERA is facin~ ratification soon. And third, 1t could organize, focus and direct attention to­ward the national image of the ERA. 

Oasses hold elections today 
Class elections will be held today. On campus voting will take place in the dorms during_ lunch and dinner, with off campus ba1loting taking place in LaFortune from 11-2 p.m. 

BREAK TIME  
DIRECT O'HARE.  ~ '  
$15  EXPRESS  $15  I  
from NOTRE DAME CIRCLE  I  
March 27 depart 4pm arrive 5:30pm 


--;---~-------------~-----------~~----' 
lOam 
11:30 am
March28 
lpm 2:30pm 

61a---•FIRSTBANK TRAVEL Badin Hall 



283-7080 
INOIANA IVIO I Ui=l aus 
The Observer Wednesday, March 12, 1980 -page 3 



Iran delays release ofhostages 
(AP) -Iran's president said liament must have time to ing from an inflamed spl~n the American hostages cannot consider their fate, a French and requires a "hazardous'' be freed before mid-May be­newspaper reported yesterday. operation to remove it. The cause the ~et-ta-be-elected par-It quoted him as saying the shah has lived in Panama since 
militants holding the U.S. Em­treatment for cancer and ~all bassy are influenced by pro-So­bladder problems in the Umted viet groups. States last year.

"Unfortunately, they (the State Department officials 
militants) sometimes let them­declined comment on published 
selves be influenced by certain reports that the Carter adminis­
[continued from page ·1] 
political groups favorable to the tration was resisting the shah's 
At several times throughout U.S.S.R., such as the Commu­attempts to use a U.S. militarythe reading, Brooks appealed to nist Tudeh Party, which wants hospital in Panama. the blacks in the audtence. to isolate Iran on the interna­One commission member, 
.L\t one point, she read, tional scene,'' Abolhassan Louis-Edmond Pettiti of "Primer for the Black" which 
Bani-Sadr was quoted as saying France said: ''We left the door she said, "I always read if I in an interview with the French open t~ reurn... T~e situation have one black in the audience, 
newspaper Le Monde. is so fluid and mobale that one and I am blessed with more Bani-Sadr also accused Iran's cannor advance any specula­
.

than that tonight.'' revolutionary Council of' 'weak­tton. " 
She also read a poem titled ness and indecision'' in dealing Several hours after the panel"To Those of my Sisters Who with the militants' refusal to let members left Iran, U.N. Secre­Kept Their Naturals and Never members of the U.N. investiga­
tary-General Kurt Waldheim Looked a Hotcomb in the tory commission see the hos­told reporters the panel's report
Teeth'' and dedicated it to 
tages, the newspaper said. on the shah's regime ''cannot those blacks in the audience The newspaper quoted him 
be issued or produced until rhe ''with naturals.'' • as saying: "If the council had hostage problem is solved." She ended the reading with shown itself firm, it if hadn't 
''Aloneness,'' a poem about the changed its mind every daydifference berween being alone · under pressure from this or that and being lonely. The poem group, we wouldn't be where Artists
ended with the thought of love. we are.'' "I think love is a good word The U.N. commission left to end the evening on,'' Brooks Tehran early yesterday, after 17 
tosubtnit

said. She then received a days in Tehran without getting
standing ovation. to see any of the approximately 50 hostages and without 438 pages of copied documents entrj,es today
Ayatollah Ruhollah ~homeini


Russia hintsat Afghan neutrality • 
had instructed the mtlttants to All poetry and prose emnes turn over. The militants, who for the Senior Arts Festival LONDON (AP) -Britain has and given an outline of the Arabia and the United States 
occupied the embassy Nov. 4, must be in to Dave Perry at received "private messages" British proposal. Then on have been arming and training said the documents would 8836 by today. Anyone inter­that the Kremlin looks wdling March 3, Bntish Ambassador to Afghan rebels for months be­''prove U.S. criminal activities ested m participating in the to negotiate the proposal by Moscow Sir Curtis Keeble met fore, and during the Red under" the deposed shah. Musical performance segmentBritish Foreign Secretary Lord with a Soviet deputy foreign Army's Christmas Day push In New York, the personal of the Festival is asked to Carrington for a neutral and minister for further talks. into the strategically placed physician of Shah Mohammad contact Laura Sisson at 1674 bynon-alig_ned Afghanistan, For­It was nor until late last week, [continued on page 8] Reza Pahlavi said he is suffer-Friday.
eign Office sources said yester­the sources said, that Britain 

day. 
In Moscow, however, the Soviet Union publicly repeated its opposition to Western pro­posals for the neutralization of Afghanistan. 
The foreign office sources told The Associated Press they were disappointed by what they see as America's lackluster supporr for the plan, which would pave the way for a Soviet troop withdrawal. 
·'To say.•.d1at ~~iqit.QY. hfl,s 

--been cool to the proposarwould be an understatement,'' one diplomat said privately. "Be­cause it was not their idea in the first plac~, ,~he Americans are ·tgnonng 1t. Britam and the Soviet Union so far have held rwo formal discussions about the idea, which Lord Carrington put for­ward at a meeting of the nine-nation Common Market ministers on Feb. 19. 
On Feb. 28, Soviet Ambass­ador to London Nikolai Lunkov _ was called to the Foreign Office 
received "private messages" from the Soviets on the matter. 
''We have no objections to a negotiated settlement as put forward by Lord Carrington,'' a source recalled one of the messages as saying. The Russians said they wanted more discm:sions. 
One Foreign Office source went so far as to call this evidence that British proposal , was "in the first stages of negotiation.'' 
The messages were the first direct response from -the Soviets on the proposal, which is now being discussed by the Common Market in hopes of making it a collective policy of the European community. 
But the Soviets have made it clear to the British -as they have been saying all along ­that any Soviet troop pull-out must be accompanied by an end to "outside interference" in 


WOIIBII'S 
OPPOR!Ullft' 
WBIK 

presents DIAXA lfYAD: marathon
•


swimmer 
Wed March 12 8PM 
LITTLI THEA'fllB 
(MOUAU SMC) 
Afghanistan. pmThe Russians maintain that China, Pakistan, Egypt, Saudi b=-cxx:::~~~~S:Jc!~~!SI 

• 


The Observer. 



Wednesday, March 12, 1980 -page 4 
New cancer info 



Barbituatesmaypromote tumors 

ALMIICSCUI_.
llo\'1'1 
' Mar. 17 Mon. 
X 

X 
lt 
I[ 

As feeding hour approaches, students make their way to the South Quad Zoo. [photo by john Macor] 

X 
X

MASS 
J
Sunday March 16 4:30pm 
by Louis Breaux 

Cancer research has acquired new information regarding the promotion of tum(;fS due to the efforts of University professor Dr. Morris Pollard, dtrector of Lobund laboratory. Dr. Pollard's research has produc­ed evidence that links barbitu­ates, commonly used as seda­tives, to the promotion of already existing tumors. 
Also, Notre Dame professor Dr. Gary Burleson is conduct­ing similar research in Lobund laboratory that could eventually lead to the development of an effective therapy for cancer. 
Experimentation  by  Dr.  
Pollard  has  shown  that  the  
chemicals  phenobarbital  and  



Placement Bureau 
• liar. 18 TuN.
LAFORTUNE BALLROOM FATHER FITZ 
LIGHT SUPPER SERVED 
"AN EXCITING EATING EXCURSION" 



•••the 


. .lilt.:...!!!.



NUMBER ONE 

"'-•·
fftUOKITE al 

I he 
Sub Mac-hine 

·~
52313 US 31 NORTH, SO. BEND 

rrr:······ 
277-6355 
2426 LINCOLNWAY WEST, MISH. 
259-8110 
OVIt US 31 N STOitl IS 
7U ST J. tn t L E F JOt¥\ ND. 
Omon, • Lettuce • romatoe • Pickles • Green Pepper' • Black ( Jhn•, 
J 
'>aft • Pepper • 0,/ • Vrnegar • Mayonar'£' • Mu,r.rrrl ·--Oregano • Hot Sauc{' 
r-• • ' ,. .• -• ' ._ • • ~ 
X X 
.. 
X 

sodiUJn barbiturate promote the spread of intestinal cancer in rats. "Phenobarbital is a dangerous drug,'' Pollard said. ''\Vhile pheno~arbital does not cause cancer, tt promotes can­cers already formed, causing more and larger rumors to develop. If we can carry over this information from animals to man, our research indicates this drug is very dangerous to man.'' 
Pollard experiments consist­ed of three groups of rats whose body systems are very similar to man's. Two groups of rats received quantities ofthe chem­ical Dimethylhydrazine hydro­chloride fDMH). which is knov. n to induce tumors on a consi~tent basis. The remain-
Ia a .ajO't or c-r atu of •pac1&Uaatille. 

tancOhio B in FiD and IIIlA vith l!in bqrd o~ cocctru u well u atroug AA::ct backaroulld for c-rdal Credit ....U.y.e. All IBA tor llaDaReaent 11114 Profeaa1ocal Train1q Prosr•· (li<>te chuaea tr..Han,..l) 
Central Tru.t CooiP!I!Y ll in Lib, Arta. JIBA. 11114. For: llmaa-t Traiulni Proar... FrineipallJ.Kaail~ County (Ohio) 
Citiaeoahip required. 
County of L<>s Ana•leo II 1D Cl!. • •• I 
Uraeh c-sr Dr-ry ILordvaro. I 1n llkt GAtor DLotrlbutioa. --l'cnt """'••-• Tra1Dee -Dietril>uti.QQ Dept. Stu:r11a, MI. Pen&. -· Vba required. 
-
o\Mrt.,.,.. C... Co!p!!!J (-cWule4 fr• Mar. U) 
a m Zc""· ""''· Fla. • ArebclloceH of a.tc"'\...:;us ·a~is;•
All ..,... rlti&tad to I u4 • teadll.Da -ciallJ -tlo ....t IIC.lODCa. Appll-ta for el-":ary acloooLI ere to bae at 1-• Ja1aDr lD e~tary eduutlODI appli<:Mlta f1>r IMCDHan' aehoc>Lo ere requbwl'll bDuH 1a prot~l .....,._ ts-(lacludlq at.udat tMC!Wia) -s 11 -J2 -ra 

llaYfhU, Ohio. Citb•ulhtp required•.. 
Travelera x........... c~ ih IIU. ll io if( b&1' <IU<.:lpU-. 
Upjoiul .,...1
l'ba1<111Auutlcale. 1 in !1101, Cb•, IUeroblol. 
Pars Pb-uU.cel StlN. Loeatf.o'll: llat1011V14•· 
l/'era. ba. 111M. 
lev !loployu f~ welt of ll&r, 10: 
111•1tell1ld e-ra en4 liUit.-t•.
St.....rd ad cast• dip.tel tntesrated eir­
cutn. -con&Netor dnif:.., audin vi~..-1 
~·c-. r.e<mlliiJ ~t,....t,-cC>aa-r d"ctrD~>h' 
pro&loo<:u. .a! ta a. ror: ·lh'"'l'"· . 
Proceaa, hoduc:t ad hli.abUitJ i><'' • '· •· ,,. · 
-ufacrull'iaa of kai•COD4Uctor 4evl.... t.Dutiotl: -th Port~. llai~~e. l reqtrl..-..1. 
SlQI UP -loT '1!1! PlACDIIIIT I\JIU!4C. 


ing group, the control group, 
did not receive the DMH treat­
ment. 

One of the DMH-tested 
groups and the control group 
was given sodium barbiturate 
through their drinking water. 
The DMH-treated group that 
received sodium barblturate 
developed twice as many 
tumors as the other DMH-treat­
ed rats without the barbiturate. 
The control group did not 
develop tumors. 

This shows that although sodium barbiturate is not a carcinogen (does not induce tumors), it 1s a promoter of already existing tumors. The full research was reported by Pollard and P.H. Lucken in the October 1979 issue of the 
journal of the National Cancer Institute. 
The research being done by Dr. Burleson in Lobund labora­tory concerns the class. of chemicals called interferons. ''Interferon has tremendous potential in cancer treatment," said Burlson. "It is produced by the body and is therefore non-toxic. It has great anti­tumor and ami-viral capaci­ties.'' Interferon can be pro­duced by virtually every cell in the body. 
The preliminary evidence of the experiment has shown that at least one type of interferon, called Type I, greatly inhibits the growth and clustering of tumor cells and may be very effective in combatting metastasts, or the spread of cancer cells throughout the body. The research with this type of interferon is currently in the stage of testing in animals, and the conclusions may not be known for weeks or even months. 
''The aim of this research is to take the types of interferon and compare their ami-viral and their anti-tumor properties to find which would be best in fig h t i n g ·metastasis , ' ' Burleson said. ·'We would like to find the best method of use for interferon, either by inocu­lation or by inducing the body to produce more of its own interferon. '' 
The researchers also hope to purify interferon and •classifv r the different types by thetr c_hemical and physical proper­ties. 
The problem now faced by the researchers is to find the optimum way to produce the Type I interferon and other types and to look for an ideal chemical that might induce the body to produce its own inter­feron. Also, the researchers must find the best way to administer interferon or an interferon-inducer. 
Burleson is assisted by Mike O'Connell; graduate students Carmen Sepulveda, Dave Herzog, Florence Germain, and students in undergraduate research. 
• • . South 
[continued from page 1) 

subdued celebration of the ex­pected -except when the place was evacuated because of a bomb threat. 
The Southern victories put Carter back in command in the race for Democratic nominating delegates. He was gaining 179, to run his national total to 266. Kennedy led for 28 in yester­day's primaries, which would put his overall delegate strength at 143. 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-----­





Editori 
s 


Wednesday, March 12, 1980 -page 5 
P. 0. Box 

was jumped from behind, pull­

'Molarity' author ed to the ground and relieved of ten dollars. Thanks to her screams and the fact that

dead? 
another couple happened by, Dear Editor: her assailant left quickly. The incident itself is unfor­~~na~e The sad irony, however,
I think some one should raise is that two South Bend policethe question as to whether cars were parked on the south­
Michael Molinelli is actually writing ''Molarity.'' I once had west corner of Notre Dame 
some personal contact with Mr. Ave., i.e. kitty-corner and not more than 20 yards away from
Molinelli and believe there is no way he could have written some the whole incident. I must 
admit I was less than cordialof the recent cartoons. Some when I asked one of the officers have actually been almost 

funny. (who, by the way, was standing 
Lately, I've been looking outside of his car) how he could quite closely at some of the not have seen or heard the strips and I've found something goings-on. Bur his reply was 
unnecessarily callous: he wasquite interesting. On yester­


ND students not apathetic
day's cartoon, in the first panel, there on other business. 
Chuck Mason says, "I buried Students who venture outside Mike.'' This would indicate the friendly confines of Notre ~chaellfollovvay that Michael Molinelli is dead. Dame or Saint Mary's are in the I am writing in response to an trademarks of all of Notre Spend an afternoon .with a
hands of the South Bend Police

Look at the second panel. If you editorial column authored by Dame's athl~tic programs are neighborhood self-help tutor, a
Department. It is unfortunate

read, "My hand's dead. Is M. Heany and S. J. Kotz which everpresent. Btg .Brother, a Big Sister or a
that SBPD deems it so import­

Mike Poor?" b!lckwards, it appeared in the March 7 issue Heaney and Kotz believe that hospital volunteer--then try to reads, ' 'Poor Mike is dead... ' ' ant to protect those under 21 of The Observer. In their by "ignoring the more impor­convince me that Notre Dame's 
from the questionable ravages

Plus Jim Mole (the main char­column, Heaney and Kotz made tant issues (citing disinterest in student body just doesn't care. 
of Goose's, Corby's, et. al. at

acter with whom Mr. Molinelli a number of accusations against the tenure of professors as All of these volunteers be­
the expense of the safety of

has always associated himself) the University and her student compared to the sudden arousal lieve that their time is devoted says, "22, I'm over." If Mike others m the area. body and I, for one, do not of student opposition to the to "important issues" and I had lived he would have been Kevin Connor intend to let them pass unre­demise of the hockey team as must agree. The causes that 
22. Coincidence? I don't think futed. an example), students are rein­these people represent may not so. Who knows what other Heaney and Kotz claim that forcing the ''jock'' stereotype be as political in nature as the clues have slipped by us. Plus, aside from football and basket­that N.D. has tried to shed for tenuring of professors, but they has anyone seen Michael Moli­Lung Association ball, "there is a definite short­so long." I find no justification are not any less important. nelli on campus this year? I age of good sporting events on for such a broad statement with Perhaps, to each of these Ihaven't. campus.'' I would be most regard to student apathy. students, people are a bit more
thanks students I
My guess is that something interested in learning exactly important than the politics of
The Notre Dame student I
{tragic or fortunate, depending what their definition of a ''good college administration. There
body is far from disinterested-­I 
upon your viewpoint) has hap­Dear Editor: sporting event" is. Is a "good" is no validity in Heaney and
Mr. Heaney's and Mr. Katz's 'I
vened to Mr. Molinelli. Moli­event one to which thousands Kotz 's statement that "aside
priorities simply happen to be I
nelli is dead. The lapse in On behalf of the American flock? I believe not. from sports, Notre Dame stu­I
different than those of some of 
cartoons was .(>tobably covered Lung Association of North Cen­Have Heaney and Katz never dents don't get excited about 1
their classmates. The Univer­
up by rerunntng some of his tral Indiana Board of Directors I sat in the bleachers at the ACC, much of anything.'' 1
sity has one of the most active
older cartoons unril a replace­would like to express our sin­cheering their favorite inter­Heaney and Kotz concluded
Volunteer Service offices on any I cere appreciation to the stu­
ment could be found. It is my hall hockey team onto_ victory? their column with this thought:
college campus, with nearly a 1 
guess that "Molarity is pre­dents from Notre Dame· and Have they never been present ''If winning the National
qua~«;r ~f the student body i
sently being written by Pat Saint Mary's for participating at one ofCoach DeCicco's noted Championships is the most 1
paruc1 paung. 
Byrnes or Jim Canavan. in the recent Christmas Seal fenc.ing matches, never attend­important memory that most 
B. P. Goyer Campaign. ed a women's field hockey I offer this to Mr. Heaney and students will take with them It is indeed difficult for Mr. Kotz:
game at Cartier Field or watch­from1,Notre Dame, something is 
voluntary health organizations Accompany a Logan Center
ed Notre Dame's determined seriously wrong with this 
to raise the necessary funds soccer team challenge an oppo­volunteer one cold Saturday to school.''SOuth Bend Police needed for medical education, nent behind Stephan Cen­Nortern Indiana State Hospital. I seriously doubt that the programs and research. The ter? Walk into the gymnasium there majority of students graduating 
criticized Lung Association is fortunate to The athletes who participate and watch the children respond from N.D. would consider the 
have the strong support of in these varsity and non-varsity to the student's interest in National Championship title Dear Editor: Notre Dame and Saim Mary's sports are as dedicated as any them. Watch a volunteer cradle their most important memory.
which spans a 50 year history. a disabled child--and tell me
member of Notre Dame's bas­But I wouldn't know--I'm only aLike many others, I was in Therefore we applaud the ketball or football teams. that Notre Dame's student body freshman. I do know however, Goose's Nest last Wednesday efforts of Ms. Mary Laverty, 
Neither the band, the cheer­is disinterested. that I have already collected
night. My date left Goose's in 
Mr. James McDonnell and the leaders, the 30,000 rowdy fans, Stand outside one of the memories that will remain withorder to ~et money out of her many student for helping us in nor the notorious N.D. alumni dining halls with a World me long after I have left Notre 
purse wh1ch she had left in my the prevention and control of Hunger Coalition member one
need be present to enhance the Dame. Memories of fine fri­
car. The car was parked on the lung disease. miserable, wet evening and
quality of these sporting e­endships, challenges met andnortheast corner of Howard St. As soon as she got the money and slammed the car door, she 

'1W RJfAUYP.JilOTE A BOOK. ZEN..' I lJIDN'T KNOW '!tJ(J /A/Ell£ A WleiTeR. 
\ 
3-12. 

vents. The competition, the collect donations--then try to yes, even pep ralhes and foot­
Donald A. Dake 

athletic skill, and the sports­tell me that Notre Dame's ball games. Rut, long after I've
President 

manship that have become the student body is apathetic. 
I ()fPN7WHEK, AND NOlA/MAN. ffWAS IE'S CW THE 
~ t«ttY 10 FAMe TAi£NT. ANDFOfUl/Ne.' I / 

forgotten the score of "the big game," when I'm so old that I can't recall the name of the 
quarterback  who  played  so  
brilliantly my senior year,  I'll  
remember the people I've  en­ 

countered. I'll remember Notre Dame's student body. 
Perhaps, in four years, I too will have grown a Jude disillu­sioned, a little critical of the University and will sit down at this very same typewriter to voice my dissatisfaction. But, for the time being, my bubble as of yet unburst, I offer Notre Dame my support and encour­age others to do the same. 
administration of either institution. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers
The news is reported as accurately and 

as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief. ....... .Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ......... _....... .Mark Perry 
represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor..........Diane Wilson Features Editor.....Karhleen Connelly
&x Q Notre Dame, IN 46JJ6 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editona/ Editor..............Ann Gales Photo Editor ....... ....... Doug Christian 
opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor.........M. Onufrak The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager ........Steve Odland newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor ................... .Mark Rust Production Manager .... John McGrath ofthe University of Notre Dame du lac an~ . the free expression ~f varyi~g News Editor .............. ... Mike Shields Adver#si11g Manager .... M. Holsinger and Saint Mary's College. It does not opmaons on campus, through letters, 1s SMC News Editor ........Margie Brassil Controller..................Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged: Circula#on Ma1Uiger......Greg Hedges 
_'fhe Observer_ 
---~ 


.\ \ 
t 
t 
\ 
} 
( 
( \ 
( 
:~ 
. . \I 
~ 
' 
l I 
I . 


, 

As George Bush speaks, the delegates listen intentfy. Colorful balloons and state signs added mirth to an exhuberant convention. 

The state delegates from Flonda had more on their minds thmr simply the politics ofthe convention. 
' 



approbation ofthe choice. 
-,. 



~1()()()1~ 
~~[)~()1~1 ~I ()()()I~I .~I [)()()I~I ~I[)J>UI~T 
~1()()()1~1 

~()(1\ ~I()IJI3ll(4~ (()~ 

The atmosphere was at times painfully serious as if it were the real thing. Yet before one realized this, the mood had reversed and it was a time for insane nominations and ''favo­rite sons.'' So proceeded the Mock Republican Convention which was held this past week at Stepan Center. The final outcome that George Bush and William Simon were nominated for President and Vice-Presi­dent now appears to be rather insignificant. The value and importance of the convention lies simply in the fact that over one thousand students felt it worth their time to participate in such an event, even to stay until 5:30 a.m. to complete the presidential nominations. 
Yet the convention was not without its incredulous mo­ments; lingering ever present were votes and nominations for 
. people such as Emil T. Hofman and things such as Sesame Street's Cookie Monster. In fact, at one point during the Vice-Presidential nominations, this creature appeared headed for that nomination as votes were continually added under his, or its name. But at this point, the director of the Cookie Monster's campaign, in an extremely adept pohtical move, cast his support to Simon, and the nomination soon followed in a landslide. 
The Mock Republican Con­vention was then a tasteof both worlds. It provided students an opportunity to gain insight into the great political process of a convention without the pres­sures and responsibilities asso­ciated with the real thing. It allowed students to become involved, to shed the reputation of unconcerned, apolitical peo­ple, and to really make an attempt at solidifying their political views. And thus, the tangible outcome ofthe conven­tion is unimportant. It is with those processes and those peo­ple involved who worked to achieve that outcome that ime importance lies. 
johnMacor 


J 



• 
-­



II 

Political powerbrokers Christopher Antonio Stewart and Freda Lambour­ghini exchange niceties for t~e pre~s ~efore. setti~g dotfln to more serious
~~~II()~ 1~S() 
business. The two Republtca'"' b;gwtgs failed tn thezr attempt to form the ethnic Frank Riggoljohn Paull/ ticket. 
J 
-~ 
l 
, 
I 
j 
1 1 






r 
The Observer Wednesday, March 12, 1980 ~page 8 
Ad Hoc' survey 


Committee questions library use 
by Tim Vercellotti are the development of the calling the questionnaire ''an 
StaffReporter library's collection of books, excellent chance for the student 
and the organization of this body to give feedback cancer-

The Ad Hoc Committee on collection. The survey will also ning the library." the College Library /Under-be used to evaluate the Library Neal expressed hope that the graduat~ Services committee services, such as the reserve results of this project would aid plans to distribute a student book room, the microtext, and the library in working closer survey in early April. The the audio listening area. In-with other areas of the universi­purpose of the questionnaire is structional programs including ty, such as the Freshman to gauge student needs concer-tours and orientations will also Writing Program, and the Coi­ning the use of the Memorial be re-evaluated. lege of Engineering. Neal Library. This is not the first time a explained that presently the 
James Neal, head of the library survey has been taken. library's facilities are geared Collection Management depart-Neal pointed out that a faculty more towards graduate work in ment, chairs the committee. questionnaire was distributed Engineering, and that more· According to Neal, the commit-last year, and the resultsof both emphasis should be placed on tee is concerned with improving surveys will be published and work at the undergraduate le­the services of the library. submitted to the Director of· vel. Before any improvements can University Libraries, Robert The committee, according to· be made, however, the library Miller. Neal, is also planning a random staff must know what students The committee, which is sampling of faculty members to require. ma,~e up of library personnel, find . out what materials a~e 
"We are concerned with members of the faculty, and reqmred for courses. From thts getting a better understanding one student, is responsible for information the library staff can of student use of the library, the compilation of questions for conclude what facilities stu­and attitudes towards it,'' Neal' the survey. Areas treated in dents will need for assignments stated. He explained that the the survey include the study and research papers. survey would serve as the atmosphere of the library, the Members of the committee vehicle for the gathering of this use of particular facilities, and are urging students to take information. library hours. advantage of next month's sur-
Neal said that circulation of Anna Kearney, a member of vey. "The bigger the response, the questionnaire is tentatively the committee, cited the lib-the better mandate for taking scheduled for early April, witht racy's role as a student service action," Kearney explained. the possible assistance of the as one of the reasons for the The group also feels that HPC. He hoped that the library survey. "A service institution their findings will not go unno­survey would elicit the same must be aware of the service ticed by the library staff. ''If successful reponse that the needs of its users,' • Kearney student body indicates that alcohol survey did last fall. stated. changes should be made, I 
The results of the survey, Sheila Geary. the student think that the library will take according to Neal, will be used representative on the co~~it-~hese ~hange~ into ~cco~.nt in in several areas. Among these tee, held the same optmon, Improvm~ their services, · 
Geary satd. 


Sports 

• • .HPC 

Illustrated 
[continued from page 1] 
the majority of the rectors from

UNIVERSAL GYM EQUIPMENT, TOURNAMENT 
that quad. Porterfield stated that he had contacted the


SAUNAS, WHIRLPOOL, PRO SHOP, LEAGUE, 
rectors from South Quad and all 
LESSONS, FITNESS PROGRAMS 
were opposed to the keg pro­
pos~!, .thus his vote was 
agamst u. 
Porterfield explained in his
Student 1Year Membership 
interview, however, that he felt 
there is a real need for a
RAQUETBALL -$15.00 with coupon 
multi-purpose social---building on campus where students can
R/BALL &FITNESS -$40.00with coupon 
hold dances, study, grab a bite 


I PROGRAM ln ' 

to eat late at night, have 1 ------------coupon-------------1· parties, and generally, make 
substantial strides in trans­I 205 w. Edison Rd. ND-SMC STUDENT COUPON I forming Notre Dame into an 46544 "ultimate co-educational"
~~-~~~tka, Ind. 50% off 1yr.'membership I 
environment. WH-FM offer expires 3/27/80 I feels that ideas
_________________________.... ____ Porterfield such as the keg proposal will not deal with the long run problems that will be com­pounded as ND increases its . enrollment of women. While reaffirming that he voted on behalf of his constituency, Ponerfield did express faith m Riehle's ability as a leader, and hopes that some serious efforts will be made by students now to deal with the social situation· here on campus so that all students will benefit in the long run. Other 1ssues at the 
. , . Neutral 
[continued from page 3] 
Asian country wedged between the U.S.S.R. and Pakistan . 
Some observers feel Britain's claims that the Russians are seriously dealing with Lord Cru:ri~gton 's proposal is mere optuntsm. 
But the British are well aware that the Soviets may _just be encouraging them to offer their own means of settling the Afghan crisis as a way to drive a we<lge between European and 
U.S. Allies . 


HPC included discus­
sion concerning the results of 
the alcohol survey and efforts to 
raise the level of alcohol aware­

ness on campus. ' Wayne Pellegrini of the 
Psychological Services Center 
distributed the results of the 
recent Alcohol survey. Each 
hall president received a list of 
the students in their dorm and 
the classification which the 

student received concerning 
their drinking habits. These 

lists are to be posted in the 
halls. 
Mike Rauenhorst, Student 

Government Special Projects 
Co-commissioner, attended the 
meeting to say that actress and 
former alcoholic Mercedes 
McCambridge will be on cam­
pus March 19 to discuss her 
experience with alcohol. 
Rauenhorst also asked that a 
committee look into the ideas of 
halls having non-alcoholic 
parties and social activities. 
Rauenhorst is also hoping to 
relay tips to section leaders on 
how to throw successful parties 
with themes other than alcohol. 
Carroll Hall President Don 

Murray asked for volunteers to 
help gather information con­
cerning the campus so that an 
effective presentation concern­
ing ND' s need for social outlets 
can be made to the Board of 
Trustees in May. 
Murday also reported the results of his investigation into the possibility of having a limited meal plan available to on-campus students. Accord­ing to Murday, Food Service Director Robert Robinson will look into the possibilities of a reduced meal option if students express a real interest in such a program. The financial consid­erations of such a proposal will have to come from the budget office of the Administration. 
Also discussed at the HPC 

meeting was the idea of Sorin 
resident John Hi~gins to bring 
Indian Cableviston to Notre 
Dame. Higgins was told that all 
previous efforts had resulted in the Administration's rejection of the idea, and that Indiana Cablevision would not engage in the project unless the Admin­istration gave their permission. 
Keenan runs Revue 



this weekend 
jim Sommers 

Keenan Hall residents take the spotlight this week on Friday and Saturday nights at 8 
p.m. in the Fourth Annual Keenan Revue at O'Laughlin Auditorium, SMC. Admission is free, but seats must be reserved. 
Tickets will be distributed tonight and Thursday at Wash­ington Hall box office from 4-6 p.m., and at O'Laughlin box office today from 1-4:30 ~.m. Thursday seats are avadable from 8:30 to noon and 1-4:30 
p.m. Two tickets l'er person is the limit; leftover uckets will go on sale a half-hour before show-time. 
Jim Uoyd, Jim Buzard, Bob Battle, and music director Bry­an Carlin will coordinate the two-hour show. According to Buzard, the revue promises about fifteen acts ranging from jazz. instrumentals to stand-up rounnes. 
The most notable acts include the return of the Keenan octet, the remarkable Keenan Jug­glers, and the new Title IX act. 
The revue has become a tradition on campus, and has packed Washington Hall every year with capacity crowds. This year's show has been moved to O'Laughlin because the fire marshall limited Washington Hall's seating arrangements. 
•••• t ••••• •• o ~"o•••' &' 
.. -.. ' .... ' ... 
_ 
• 

L-----------------------------------------------~~=-~------~~~~--···=~.,-~---=--=-=··-=--===·~~--=~~------------------· 
The Observer 

Wednesday, March 12, 1980 -page9 
ND to stomp onfence tramplers 
by Mary Fran Callahan 
Senior Staff Reporter 
The University may hire a 
security guard to insure that 
students do not trample fences 
and walk through the construc­
tion area located south of the 
Radiation Lab, Donald Dedrick, 
director of the Physical Plant 'said yesterday. 
Because officials have placed redwood fences around the Stepan Chemical building con­stluction site, students have to climb over gates and wires, and walk zig:zag to pass by the construction area. 
Dedrick commented on the fences--which extend well be­yond the perimeter of the construction site, "You don't have co walk in a straight line. There is a walking path. Students should go around the Radiation Lab and use the sidewalk," he said. 
Dedrick added that the pur­pose of the fences' arrange­ment is to force pedestrians to 

Playerspreparepoteittproposal 
TAMPA, Fla. (AP) -Baseball's Players Association may strike, but the chances appear slim it will be Opening Day -April 9. 
The association's executive board appears to be planning a power play if it fails to conclude or make real progress toward a new collective bargaining ag­reement with the owners. 
The executive board's an­nouncement last week of a possible strike was carefully worded. It never specifically mentioned when such action would be taken. It said "on or after April 1,'' which could mean, for example, Memorial Day. 
The players, if they strike, want to protect themselves and, at the same time, hit the owners where it hurts the most--in the wallet. Striking in April and much of May would be dama­ging, but not crippling. 
In April and May many games are postponed by rain, snow and cold weather. There also are a number of off days. The crowds comparatively are smaller and the effect ofa strike at its lowest ebb. 
Also, if the players open the season and carry on negotia­tions until late May or early June they will have earned three paychecks, in many cases enough money to carry them comfortable through the sea­son. 
The players also have an insurance fund to help the lower paid guys. Each has contributed some $1800 from bubble gum endorsement mo­ney, the total approaching $1 million. Whether the owners believe it or not, the players are preparing for a strike at some point ifagreement isn't reached or substantial progress made. 
The owners should be aware of this potential association strategy, but their past actions in allowing the inmates to gain control of the asylum could belie their thinking. 
The owners also have a strike fund, and if they are as unified in their determination to regain some semblance of control of the game's salary structure and reduce the impact of the re­
... DannyNee 

[continued from page 12] 
McElhaney said, "his . : references were of the highest order. He's a man of integrity and honesty. He has helped high school players receive scholarships, just not at Notre Dame , but at smaller schools · as well. 
''He can recruit anywhere and stresses academics first.'' 
Nee said he and Phelps agreed he should accept the Bobcats' coaching position. 
"We agreed it has unlimited potential. OU has an excellent academic reputation, a good playing facility, a fine tradition, and a student body and a town that want a winner," Nee said. 
The new Ohio coach said he took the job for three reasons­
the: Mid-American .Confer­ence, location of the league and size of Athens, a southeastern Ohio city of 20,000. 
"I like the MAC," he said. "I will be very frank with you. There is very little cheating going on in this conference. You can come into the confer­
ence and not have to break rules to be competitive. I like the location of the conference. It's in a central location in this country. And the size of the town is a good place ·to raise a family." 

Danny Nee 
Nee ~aid he would begin interviewing applications for assistant coaching positions to day. Among those likely to be considered are the current Bob­cats' assistants, Mike Backus and Larry Epperly. 
entry draft could be ready for the player's strategy. 
The imminent danger from the owners' posture seems to be an inclination to think the players are bluffing. The players, however, claim they are not playing Russian rou­lette. · 
The player's atritude as indi­cated bv the dailv overwhel­ming votes of the rank and file to support its executive board, is that they have all to lose and 
li~tl_e  or  nothing  to  gain  by  
g1vmg m ro manag ement.  
If the  players  buckle,  the  

union could go down the drain. They not only have to carry a big stick, they also have to use it if necessary. And every player you talk to has great faith in the association's chief negotiator, Marvin Miller, whose tactics at the bargaining table in the last 14 years have changed the face of the game's player-owner relations. 

avoid the construction area Dedrick commented. entirely. Citing what he called the 
Rather than utilizing the ''danger of the machines,'' Radiation I~b sidewalk, how­, Dedrick said no one should walk ever, walkers have been by the area until the regular battling fences, gates, mud, walking path is again intact in and ice or puddles--depending the fall. "Tlmt area is for upon the day's weather. "I'll construction and not for stu­keep repairing fences as long as dents to walk in. By fall, I can, but if this continues -I'll walking will be O.K. again," he have to hire a security man," concluded. 
ITTlectures continue 
Dr. Martin Bronfenbrenner, professor of economics and · lecturer in history at Duke University, will present the third in a series of Key Issues Lectures sponsored by Interna­tional Telephone and Telegraph Corp. here today at 3:30 pro in the library auditorium. His taH-., '') apanese Economy in Transition: Trickledown is Alive and Well in Japan,'' is open to the public. 
Bronfenbrenner is a former Fulbright Scholar in Japan and has written several books and articles on the Japanese econ. omy and economic develop­ment. Prior to his present appointment as Kenan Profes­sor of Economics at Duke he was economics chairman at Carnegie-Mellow University Graduate School. He has beer. a faculty member at the Univer­sities of 'Wisconsin, Michigan State, and Minnesota. 
Texas-bound can call 
for rides 
..Any student going to Texas for spring break may call Ro­man Macia at 3746 for rides. Those who need riders are also encouraged to call in. This service is provided for those who have or are willing to pay Texas Club dues. Deadline is March 21. 
Sports Briefs _ _____, 
Sailing Club toopen season 
The Notre Dame Sailing Club will start its official season by hosting ''The Freshmen Icebreaker Regatta'' this weekend. March 15-16. Eight schools will sail in what promises to be a very chilling experience on St. Joseph Lake. Spectators are welcome to come down to the boat house and watch. 
Every Wednesday evening the Sailing Club has a meeting 
at 6:30p.m. in 204 O'Shag. Interested members are always 
welcome. 
ATTENTION 


SIARI WITHACOMPANY 
• THATISGROWING 
AS FASTASYOUARE 

Pr0\jress1ve Compan1es is a family of specialized insurance companies which provide insurance coverage for owners of recreational vehicles. personal automobiles, and commercial transports. Our friends who are erecting this bar chart couldn't think of a simpler way to tell you: We're growing rapidly and we intend to follow this pace in the future. 
We've succeeded because we have been highly innovative in a stodgy industry. We are young-our President is in his forties. and the median age of our senior managers is in the thirties. We are resourceful -we have discovered highly profitable ways to servtce markets others have ignored. We are demanding-we ask a lot from our people because the growth we're planning takes considerable eHort, intelligence and dedication. 

We can't use career paths or promotion timetables. Advancement is based solely on achievement. not seniority or politics. That's the way we have grown. and that's the way we"ll continue to grow. Rapid increases in responsibility mean rapid increases in compensetion. This won't impress you until you discover that our starting salaries are evan h1gher than those of many Fortune 500 corporations. 
On March 19, we will tell you more about ourselves and available positions in a presentation at 7:00 p.m. in the 
Shamrock Room of the Morris Inn. 

All individuals interested in performing in the follow1ng capacititts should make a point of attending. 
PRODUCT MANAGER FINANCIAL ANALVST 
MANAGEMENT TRAINEE 
March 20th is PROGRESSive·s DAY on campus. At this time we would like to d1scuss with you the significant opportunities available to qualified individuals. Contact the Placement OHice to ensure you are on our schedule. 
•

progre.rn/e . 
compan1er 
WP. are an equal opporrumry employer M IF 


'l 
t 
.. The Observer -Sports Wednesday, March 12, 1980 -page 10 

' 
' j
) 
' 
~ ~ 
' 
l ~ 

I j ~ i 
I ''i 
' ' 
f ~ 
I1 
I ~ 
l ( 
(' 
INDIANAPOUS (AP) -Purdues chances in Thursday's NCAA matchup with arch-rival Indiana depend greatly on whether All-American center Joe Barry
Purdue's Carroll can solve an air-tight Hoosier defense that has virtu­ally handcuffed him in two previous meetings this year
chances The 7-foot-1 Carroll, a 22­point-per-game scorer for the season, managed orrly 11 points in a 69-58 loss at Indiana in January. He fouled out with only seven points in the Boiler­makers' 56-51 victory the fol­
ride on 
Carroll's 
lowing week at Purdue. lndtana' s leading scorer, Mike Woodson, missed bothshoulders those games during his recove­ry from a back injury. 
"It has to do with talent," Purdue Coach Lee Rose said in a relephone interview from his office at West Lafayette on 
Molarity_ 

'IIJ£ 1R£ GOING As THE !Ak\LRU5 AAJD THE CARPENTER I F~H 711£ ?OEM BY L£/NIS CARROLL-THE THEM£ 15 
..LEW15 C4Rf?)LL~''~~~~~ 

The Daily Crossword 
3/12180
© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

HEY JUNIORS!!! 
lffiffiEDIATELY 
SIGN UP FOR YOUR YEARBOOK PORTRAIT CALL 3357 OR STOP BY 
2C 
LAFORTUNE 
PLEASE DO IT NOW!! 
. . 

by Michael Molinelli 
·-------..... 

ACROSS 28 Ordered 50 Put out 18 Lifeboat 1 Beat around 32 -garde 53 Yemen's hoists the-33 After alpha capital H:! Geraint's 5 Bar, in law 34 Kind of 54 Corn locale wife 10 Josh notice 57 Ostenta­24 John, in Billings 35 Bench's tious per­Glasguw 
14 One's share weapon formances 25 Glossy 
15 Wake 36 Free of 60 Bern's fabric 
16 Hebrides germs river 26 Moroccan island 39 Recognition 61 Sheepish capital 17 Insist on 40 Stirs •62 Bills 27 Get away formality 42 Shine·s 63 Textile from 20 Heir companion worker 28 Excellence 21 Aleutian 43 Wells Fargo 64 Ralph the 29 Act posi· 
outpost man consumerist tively 22 Shoots from 45 Slum 65 Cutting 30 Happening cover dwelling tool 31 Makes a 23 Deep sea 47 Ice cream start in or scuba and cake, DOWN 33 Pork's 
25 Make messy for example 1 Kind of companions 
26 Gave back 48 Inlets horn 37 Tramples money 49 Furs 2 "Render­38 Otic lobe Caesar" 41 More calm Yesterday·s Puzzle Solved: 3 Persist in 44 Obtain 

a course 46 Obey 
of action 47 Soft 4 Layer 49 Velvety 5 Ate into cloth 6 Navigation 50 Minced oath 
system 51 Roentgeno­7 Nip's com­gram panion 52 Cut down 8 Full of: 53 Egyptian suff. port 
9 Private 55 Court cry 10 Analogous 56 Existence 11 Circlet 58 Power 12 Elizabeth's system 
daughter initials 13 Methods 59 Mauna­

j juniors: sign up for the j i juniorclass m.ixed doubles!!pool tournament finals at I i Nickies i 
I ' I I I 
-~~~~~~~~~~a~aaaaaa~~
i 1st prize-$25.00 ! 
t~~~~~~~~~~a~6~aaa~~~~~ 

1 to register your team, I II call pam at,7308 or go to the 1I I secretary at student activities in Iafortune. ; ; leave your names and phone nos. I I for more info: I I call donna at 7933 or tom at 1189 I 
. . ' 
'. 

shooting night. In the game up here, he fouled out. 
''In terms of how to rectify it, I'm going to tell him not to foul out and to hit all his shots. But they do such a good job jamming up the middle, it creates problems. This will be the sixth time we've played them in 14 months, and we do have a difficult time getting the ball inside.'' 
But Rose is quick to point out that Purdue doesn't rely soley on Carroll. There are four other players, plus the bench, who 
•Contribute>. In fact, he says. the team's overall performance is what makes Carroll the player he is. 
... Finals 

[continued from page 12) 
showings from Clemson, North Carolina, Penn Stare: and NYU), the Tartar-Irish match­ups seen in Chicago will again be center stage in this week­end's three-day competition. 
Andy Bonk (35-4 in the regular season), Notre Dame's defending gold medalist in foil, won the Great Lakes foil title, edging Ernie Simon of Wayne State. The Tartar's Neil Htck, in a fence-off, won the sabre competition from Notre Dame's Chris Lyons (37-6 in 1980) after the two were deadlocked in the championship round. Similar­ly, Wayne's Gil Pezza won the epee from Irish freshman Rich Daly (23-5) in a fence-off. 
When Saturday's closing cer­emonies bring DeCicco's 19th year as Notre Dame coach to a close, the Irish mentor feels he may just be able to take home his third piece of hardware (Notre Dame won the 1977 and 78 national titles.) 
"Based on what I saw at the Great Lakes, I really think we have an excellent shot at the roses," he said. "We lost those two fence-offs to Wayne State, but just think--we almost won all three individual titles. If you do that at the nationals, you'll win it all. "Like I said, we got hurt because of ·our number two men. But we don't have to worry about number two men in the nationals." 

Defending fozl champ, Bonk 
The Irish women's foil team will have a little respite before entering the NIWF A (National Intercollegiate Women's Fen­cing Association) champion­ships at Ohio State from March 27 to 29. The squad, which finished second to Wayne State by nine po1nt~ in the <;J-~eat Lakes women s compeuuon, qualified for the NIWFA's with their performance. . 
Liz Bathon (30-10 dunng regular season) finished third individually, while teammante and captain Dodee Carney (31­
8) ended up fourth. Joining them in the nationals will be freshman Susan Valdiserri (21­
13) and sophomore Marcella Lansford (11-10) . 
Tuesday. "They (the Hoosiers) are No. 1 in the Big Ten in defense.'' 
The seventh-ranked Hoosiers are 21-7 and have a seven-game winning string since Woodson returned from a two-month layoff following surgery. The No.20-rated Botlermakers stand 20-9 going into Thursday night's Mideast Regional semi­finals at lexington, Ky., Rose's hometown. 
"When you take Ray Tolbert and Landon Turner, who are quick, agile, have great mobili­ty and do a great job on defense, and put them around Joe. . . and especially when they have Woodson back, who is a great player, it makes it difficult for us to do what we'd like ro do," said Rose, caught up already in the tremendous intrastate rivalry, even though it's only his second year at Purdue. 
"We had played twice last year and got to go to New York and play them again in tht National Invitational Tourna­ment. And lo and behold we end up against them this year in the NCAA," Rose said. "Both teams play with commitment: and emotion, yet it comes down to which team execures best. As far as the rivarly, it's just amazing. This is o111e of the most unique rivalries in athle­tics." 
Indiana sp!ic a pair of regu­lar-season games with Purdue last year, then beat the Boiler­makers 53-52 for the NIT cham­pionship. 
As far as Carroll's problems with the Hoosiers this year, Rose said, ''In the first game, he didn't have a very good 

·~ 

The Observer -Sports Wednesday, M~ch 12, 1980 -page 11 
[continued from page 12] 
a matter of cold shooting and too many careless turnovers,'' says Petro. ''I certainly don't thmk we were outclassed in 

• • . Women either game, and neither do the girls.'' 
In the process of guiding the 
Irish father than any previous 
Notre Dame squad, Petro may ha' e found the offensive bal­an.:e she had been searching for during much of the season. 
True, freshman center Shari l\ .atvey led the Irish in scoring i11 each of the three games, but the native of Youngstown, Ohio averaged 13 points per game during the tourney, as com­pared to her 17. 5 season scoring average. And Matvey had plenty of help. 

Senior guard Molly C~shman scored 24 points in the three games, exhibiting several sparkling drives to the basket. 
· The Irish also got help from reserves 'Tricia, McManus, Sheila Liebscher and Missy Conboy, who returned to action despite spraining an ankle early in the Greenville contest. 
.:The winner of toniglit's ~arne will travel to LaCrosse, Wts., to take on the University of Wis­consin-LaCrosse Saturday. The Roonies, ranked sixth nation­ally, won the Midwest Re~ional last weekend. LaCrosse ts led offensively by 5-7 swingman Lorr~in~ Petzlaff (12.9ppg) and 5-10 JUmor center Darcta Davies (12.5 ppg, 7 .3rpg) 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue In which the ad is run. The Obslmr office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classlfieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail.
Classifieds 
I need to borrow someone·s vantprck­

Tom "Roses" Schuster Need a ride to lhti Boston area 1orup for one weekend (Fri to Sun) 
John 0. Public: If Kennedy wins-you Got you this time! What do you
Notices anytime between now and April 7. break? If so, sign up to ride on the
lose! mean by "I have the key to her
Urgent. Some recompense possible to Boston Club Bus. Sign up at
Muy Jo ignition."????? · 
kindly Christian willing to help out. LaFortune lobby 4·7 today [Wed.).
Morrissey loan Fund Your "Personal" Friend
Call 232-6344 for details between 12 --------------$82 roundtrip, first come first serve. 
N.D. Student loans $20-$2\lO. Due in noon and 9 pm. Leave name and SOFTBALL Happy Birthday Lori! Bring your check (preferably) or one month. One percent interest. Anyone interested In coaching the ND
number. 110 and the cakes money with you! leave (tentltlve)
Basement of LaFortune. 11:30-12:30 womens' softball team (fast pitch), 
6:00pm March 27. 
M-F. Last day for May grads to apply --------------please call Karen at 1258 or 2163.
Need ride to and from Miami for How was Zahm?! Have agreat B-Day!
is March 14. 
Spring Break. Wlllshue $$$. Please ------------------Carolyn DH-Campus Mass, Sun. March 16.
Come to woman's opportunity week.

call 233-2201 after 11 pm on. 4:30 Lafortune Ballroom. light
Last chance--N.J. Club bus has spaces March 9-14 SMC. 
Happy B-Day Lori! supper served after. 
left! Call Chris at 1178 or Kevin at --------------­
Student Union Campus Press needs Love, Your fellow Walshites
1166 for reservations. like to party but can't afford It on a 
Devon,
well-organized, efficient secretary to 
student's budget? Brldgets serves up

work 1·5 dally for 1980-81 yr. Duties To "U" in 103 Walsh: One kiss won't hurt. Wally won't 
Typing Plus: Term papers, theses, 25 cent drafts from 9:30 • 10:30 nltely.
include processing orders and the Happy 19th! find out. 
dissertations. Light editing, ghost Bring a crowd.
setup/layout posters. Begin training . 1 nvP. Harbev and Paddington Sean 
writing. Literary search, bibliogra­Lon,
now. Apply 1-5 In person, Basement --------------­
phies, genealogies. Job resume Bridgets thinks you need a break! 
Do you want to borrow my black Steve, Amy, RJ,of Lafortune. Any questions call 7047
service. Sliding rate scale based on or Diane at 7994. Happy Hour from 4-7 daily. Quarter satin pants when you go out to You're three of the greatest. I love 
lead tiJ'I'e. Special discounts available beers 9:30-10:30 nitely. Now that's a celebrate your 19th? you. 
on fu II contracts for theses and ---------------deal. The Drug-Related One Keith
local Band needs Brass section,dissertations. Aardvark Automatic trumpet, trombone, alto, tenor sax.

Solutions/ P.O. Box 1204/46624/ D.C. Club Meeting: LaFortune Little --------------­
Hello Tony P. Keith,Please contact Michael Coleman In the
phone 219-289-6753. Theatre. Wednesday March 12, 6:30 "MOM" You're pretty darn special youn~el :!
South Dinig Hall or call me at home 
pm. Meeting, elections, and bus trip
289-1005 after 8:00pm. 

Will do typing, neat, accurate. Call sign-ups. Bring money or check. No To the "Big Red" Bastion of Honesty, -------------­
Elect Mr. Bill to UMOC or elsa! 
287-5162. ----------------refunds! Round trip $55, One-way Now we know why your hall GPA is 
SluggoNeed ride to Boston over break. Can 
$30. so high!
drive and will pay. Call Kevin 1670. 

Forget the Missouri game. That's allA Summer Opportunity Common Ven­
Lost&Found --------------Celebrate St. Pat's Early gravy. The real action happened
I need ride, Conneticut-N VC area for ture. Lay women team up with

break. Joe 1048. during the regular season. And now
Corby's Strett kids softball smoker Franciscans and sisters of other com­
Found: Silver watch. Call and gladly, black Socrates, is making
--------------Sat. March 15th 8 pm 1121 W. munities In prayer, community, and
identify. 8320 Matt. Need ride to central PA for break. available outstanding color shots of
Western. Free beer, food, and games. service. There will be a meeting slam dunks and jubilant celebrations.
anyone passing thru via PA. turnpika Live rock by "The Pages". $3.00 March 13 at 10 pm In the Lewis

Found: small brown and white dog, please help. Expanse and driving after the UCLA and DePaul victories.
admission. Tlx at Corby's or door. Recreation Room for those interested.
Saturday outside of Dillon Hail. Call shared. Jim 1688. Be the first child on your block to have 6868 for information. a shot of Orlando soaring to the basket
----------------
Need ride for 3 to Wash, D.C. for Jim, 

ready to unleash some "ChocolateNeed ride to Tallahassee. Fla. for spring break. Please call Janet at Help! I don't understand my math.
Lost: Set of 5 keys, sometime on sprin~ break. Willing to pay extra Thunder." Call 8932.
2110. How can I get hold of you?
Friday, possibly at Stepan Center. 2 cash 1f out of way. Call Kiki 8846. 
Nancy TO-Miss-DVERPECK-;-S-C'i.ASslN
room keys and P. 0. Box key. If found, -------------­
Lori, P.S. How about another shot at some
please turn into Tile Observer office. Help West meet East. Give a West ROOM 207 AT MADfSON PRIMARY
For your b-day, I'll even clean the popcorn?

Coaster a ride to NVC or Conn. for SCHOOL* YOU ARE THE GREAT­
room for a week! 
EST!

Found: A girl's class ring. Found in break. Can leave Wed. pm. Call Jay • Your other half "Diana"Library Auditorium. Call to identify 8894. 
You're Supreme! Good luck in your Reagan Campaign Workars
4262. 
Seniors! Save $$$ Buy raffle tix for recital, Barb!

------~--------Beautiful job on the campaign--parti­
Need ride to NJ, Philly or NYC for free Senior Formal bid... Lafortuna "Flo and Mary" cularly the demonstration. Keep

Lost: small square ladies watch with 2 spring break. Call Pat 8913. 
M-F, 12·1, LeMans S·Th, 7-9.

8-------~------.·.--working for what you believe in--to­
diamonds on each side, Feb. 23 at 
----------------Drawing at Senior Bar March 20, 11:00 Lori, 

gether we will turn this country
.. 
Sacred Heart concert. Reward. Call Desperately need a ride to Florida over 
pm. Be there. Hope you have a super 19th! around.
Sharon 6258. break. Sarasoat area. Will share$$$. 
Love, Breakfast Buddie Thanx, The Chairman
Please call Mary SMC 4681. 
Diana Nyad, the long distance swim­

lost: good leather gloves at Main 
---------------mar, 8 pm Little Theatre, Moreau, as Kate McCarthy, To Toohey's Too-Many Abusers,
Circle Bus Station. Call Don at 1756. Need ride to N.J. (Monmouth area) WOW continues. Go get that Truman Scholarship! Thanks for a great weekend---all theover break. Will share driving and$$. 
Win this one for the Gipper and Sister laughs, the friendships begun, the
Lost: gold & diamond pendant from Call Tacy at SMC 4527. 
Greg, Jean. 

feeling of closeness, the love shared­necklace. Reward. Call Maureen 
----------------I need more clues. 

and the charades!
4634. Need ritle to D.C. area for Spring M.T. I'm Doomed. Kevin and the Sleeperbreak. John 8859. 
You're Doomed.
lost: Green stocking cap. Disappear­
Hey Ellen .... We're all doomed. Ignore this personal but don't ignoreed from coat8ocket Wed. lunch, West Windjammer ltd. awaits you next (Just wanted you all to remember me.) tile KEENAN REVUE. Tickets avail­
Side SOH. f great personal value. 
Friday nite. Call for more details. Scoop Sullivan able at Washington and O'Laughiln
For Sale

Call Steve M. 6708. 
GG Halls, Wed. and Thurs. To our favorite Zahmites:Lost: Turquoise ring with silver band. 
Flash: Photographic equipment for R. M. Hanifin, Snyder, Kearney, and Gorey. Thank you: Va .• Luise, Mickey, Ke<~in
Call Anne 1274. 
. sale--·fantastic bargains! Cameras, Te quiero mucho. No puedo seguir Thanks for little or no abuse this and especially Carolyn for showing me lenses. Call 232-4129. mas sin verte. Tengo problemas weekend. It was gratefully appreciat­another great time at ND.
Lost: 14K gold serpentine bracelet 
----------------.. durmiendo solo. Te vere en menos de ed. Love always, Crits
with a gold "D" charm. Call Debbie 
Got a blank space on your wall? Fill it tres semanas. No creo que voy a poder Three girls from Zoo-2
7659. 
with color basketball action photos. esperar mas. Prepara tu cama To St. Ed's & Concerned Others: 
All players, all sizes. Cheap. Not comoda. Megan, John Boucher is not nor was he everLost: Red and white ski jacket at 806 available ·from Ronco or K-Tel. Call Sinceramente Suyo, K.A. Double good luck on the election. a raving lu!latic. A wild stoosterSt. Louis St. Sat night. Any info please 
8932. Keep up the momentum. maybe·­
call 4619. Desperately need keys. 
Tim and Pat John The Gold MedalistFilm in camera has sentimental value. 
Minolta SR T 200 for sale. Call Happy birthday to two wonderfullyNo questions asked. Please at least 

Barbara 232-4378. special guys. Remember: • Lisa Chavez, Kevin,
mail keys and film to 752 LeMans. 
Let it Be, Don't Get Caught on the Well I'm writing. I furthered your We won't say Happy B-Day becaustl
Thank you. 
Ford Gran Torino Sport . Dark Side of the Moon, And As the career by printing two pictures of you we don't want anything gross to Red with black vinyl top and yellow Tears Go By, Remember to Have and you have yet to call to thank me. happen.
Found: Pair of glasses between Grace 
laser stripe. Excellent condition. Sympathy for the Devil. Sincerely, ____.._.___________
Car. and Va.
and Library. Pick up at Lost and 
50,000 miles one-owner. $1200. Call Your 3rd Floor Regina Beauties Ryan "P.R. Man" Ver Berkmoes
Found Ad Bldg. 
317-844·2115 (Indianapolis). Good luck this afternoon, Patti 
Hey Ellen Lee, MO'b, ILYMBLost: in ACC locker or weight For Sale: 1975 Mercury Cougar XR-7. If you'd like more of the guys to look The first time was funny, but twice MHroom --Cotton Bowl watch. Reward for 
Loaded, beautiful condition $1990. at you instead of more of you looking at in one night? I can't wait to see your
its return. Sentimental value. Call 
After 5 pm. Call Buchanan 616-695-the guys, cut down on desserts and encore! JAFE AND JAFE:
Jeff Weston 287-0289. 
5533. snacks. "IRENE" IS TERRIBLY SORRY
----------------PHILA.CLUB BUS: leaving 5 pm THAT SHE LEFT PART OF HER
Lost: Tl30 Calculator probably at the 
For Sale: Kenny Rodgers ticket. One UN-Pro-Thurs. March 27--to sign up call Bea THUMB IN YOUR CAR. BUT SHE
Engineering Aud. on Monday 10th. 
together. Row 18. Call Steve 7733 Thanks for the hospitality. Your (1618) or Maria (3803). LIKED THE SMELL SO THEREAny information, please call Luis 1746. 
days. friends are great! Hope your year is MIGHT BE A NEW PERFUME ON 
"Psuedo" terrific! Keep in touch. Punk Rock Happy Hour at Brldgets, THE MARKET-l'AIR DU BURNT 1980 Citation fully loaded. 2-tone Love, Pro Friday, March 14, 4-8 pm. Punk-out! THUMB .... WHAT DO YOU THINK? silver gray. $2000 off list. 3 Buds for $1.00. THANKS FOR THE RIDE AND ONCE
Wanted ---------------­
1976 Chevy pickup 3/4 ton camper Lori, AGAIN,GOOD LUCK THIS WEEK· 
special. Power brakes, steer!ng, and Happy 19th birthday ... don't study AO's--stop by 128 Walsh for a little END!
Need Spring Break riders to Dallas 
A/C 4x4. $3400. too hard. sunshine Thursday between' 4-5.
area. 272-7930. 
'55 on Diamond Lake channel. Almost Nancy 

Vey there Chuckey-Yohe, you can Need ride to Conn. for break. Will half an hour. $7000.00 Twiggy Taglia, always go to Bowling Green if you
Anytime 616-699-7027. Tarzan, Thank you for the wine! and cheese
share usual. Call Jim 1175. flunk out of here, right???
Congratulations about the Old Dome (chomp chomp chomp). Hope your Guitar amplifier·-Sonn Beta lead 100 and Georgetown too. I knew you could room is toasty warm. ---------------­
Need ride to or near Richmond, VA. Will the Chicago PBC ever be the
watts. 2 channels. Footswitch $650 do it.

for break. Will share usual. Cali Steve 
same? 

was $810. 234-4305. Noon-6~pm. Jane Watch out D.C. '-(especially Uncle
3047. 
P.S. 67 ..... Collins)--Julie Joyce is coming! ---------------­
The E-Section's Section Leader be­I need a ride home to the Miami or Ft. comes legal on Saturday...do you
Mr. Chairman Weidt: Carolyn,

Lauderdale area over spring break. people know what that means????
Personals 

I must point out that had we not When is your friend goina to comeWilling to shareMiving and expenses. 
over and take me for a walk?
Call 8632 for All My Children happy -block voted for Simon, Marvin Gaye --------------­
Call Frank 1975, Only 56 more days.... until the CPA ...
hour___________plans for Frida). _:_~ ___ surely would have taken the V. P. Heather
-------------·-·-nomination. But, alas, an excellent job ---------------­
Need ride to Tucson or Phoenix for Dear Big Red, :-BB II,
Tara, on your part anyway.

spring break. Will share driving and What kind of performance counts?? We didn't do it, but l think you can use
Fly the friendly skies of CIA. Freda the Bushman

expenses. Call Laura after 11 ';30 pm it to your ·advantage' ...understand?
Phil

at 277-5261 . 
.. 

, 

.... \, 
. I 
'{ l 
I l; 
r 
fj 
r \ 
I 
fi 
\ 

Wednesday, March 12, 1980-page 12
-~orts 


Irish women prepare 
Dan.n.yNee accepts jobfor Pacific Lutheran~ 
by Craig Chval belonged to the Irish. 

at Ohio U. 
Sports Wnter ''Even though we lost our next two games, the Midwest is 

COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP)­TACOMA, Wash.-The biggest probably the toughest region in Danny Nee, ann assistant towin in its brief, three-year the country, and I think a lot of Notre Dame's Digger Phelpshistory has opened the door for people recognize that,'' says for four years, replaced Dalethe Notre Dame women's Notre Dame Coach Sharon Bandy as Ohio University'sbasketball team to join the Petro. 
head basketball coach Tuedsayremaining 23 teams in the ''But more importantly, that and began delving immediately AlA W Division III national win gave our players a tremen­
into his No. 1 priority-recruit­
championship. dous boost," she says. "When mg.

Notre Dame continues its we were at the pre-tournament Nee was introduced by Ohio quest to reach the Division III banquet, a lot of our girls Athletic Director Harold McEl­Final Four when the Irish looked around at the other haney at . news conf~rence~ inchallenge host Pacific Lutheran players, and were really awed. 

Athens and Columbus.
University here tonight. The But the victory over Greenville ''I'm as ready as I'll everLutes (16-13) lost to Oregon proved that we belonged at the be,'' said the 34 year old Nee,College of Education, 67-53, in regional, andthat we could play accepting his first job as a headtheir regional championship with anybody.'' 

coach in major basketball. 
game. Coach Kathy Hemion's Indeed, the Irish led a talen­Bandy resigned in mid-Januaryclub is led by Sandy Krebs and ted Adrian club, 27-25, at "We'll start recruiting OhioPat Shelton, each of whom is halftime of their semi-final players very hard. I don't knowaveraging close to a dozen game before falling victim to a how many ~ood Ohio players

points per outing. horrendous second-half shoot­we can recruit this year because lhe Irish shocked Greenville, ing drought and losing, 73-59. 

we're getting in so late," Nee55-51, in the first round of the The following day, in the third­said.
Midwest Regional, and al­place game, Notre Dame had The opening date for signing though Notre Dame · droppedits several chances to tie the score binding national letter of tntentnext two contest to wmd up late in the game before a flurry is only one month away.

with a fourth-place finish, the of Spring Arbor free throws Nee takes over a sag~ingupset of the Lady Panthers,who iced a 61-56 decision for the program at the Mid-Amencan were rated seventh nationally Cougars. 

Conference school. The Bob­
and seeded second in the ''Our two lossed were largely The Notre pame women's basketball team plays Pacific 
cats ·finished last in the league
regional, opened up more than Lutheran tomght in the first round of the AIAW Division III 
with a 5-11 record and won only
a few eyes , some of which [cont£nued on page 11] national championships. [photo by Tim McKeough] 
8 of 26 games overall in Bandy's final season. McElhaney said he offered
AtPenn State 

the job only to Nee, although Flonda Southern coath Hal Wissel had been listed as the leading candidate.Nee was
DeCicco~·outlook brightensfor finals 
chosen over Indiana assistant coach J ene Davis and Wissel.
b1 Paul Mullaney_ G~ea~ Lak~s Championships at pon. ~nd that may have made automatic five oints) while all A search committee alsoAsststant Sports Edztor Illmo1s-Ch1cago C1rcle. But the dtfference, according to three of Wa p s : d'd , 
h.l h 19 NCAA h . D c· yne tate s 1 . interviewed three other assis­
w 1 e t e 79 .c amp10n ~. 1cco. ,While other schools will battle tant coaches at big-time powers Just three weeks a~o, Notre Tartars topped the Insh, 122-Our number one fencers Wayne State and N t D 
· h · · D c· d' , , · o re arne -Steve Moeller of Texas, Bod
Dame fencing coach Mike De­118, 1~ t e compennon, e 1c-w~re ~~tstan mg, he proudly for the coveted NCAA title Hill of Kansas, and Gerry Sears Cicco labelled Wayne State as co wttnessed what he had sa1d. But o~e of our number (DeCicco anticipates stron of Ohio State.
being the "odds-on favorite" to hoped for. two men (epee1st Thorn Cullum) . g win it all. But ·how people "Our top fencer in each of didn't make the final round (an [contznued on page 10] [continued on page 9] change their minds! the three weapons ~t the Great 
''I feel a lot better goiag into Lakes fences nip-and-tuck with the nationals right now than I Wayne State's top individu­would have felt back then,'' als," DeCicco smiled. "And said DeCicco, whose 19-1 Irish that's the way it will be again 

The outcome is qu~tionable?
enter the NCAA sword cham· this weekend, as we can only pionships tomorrow at Penn send one fencer in each wea-State. "I can't help but feel pon. " 

Some things to think about .... 
good after what happended last Saturday's competition, 

Who would have guessed last week that the
Saturday in Chicago.'' which also served as an NCAA Bill
women'sbasketball season would last longer than
On Saturday the Irish fin­qualifying round for schools in the men's?
ished second to Wayne State in the Great Lakes area, featured 

Who will be the ''Cinderella'' team in this
a 16-team men's field at the two representatives per wea-

Matquard
year's NCAA basketball tournament? And when is midnight? 
When will midnight come for the Notre Dame 22 year old babies that insist on being paid hockey team, or if the clock never quite strikes hundreds of thousands of dollars to fly around 12, will the administration insist on moving up the country and play baseball for six months? 
the hands? How would those same people get along if Why does the NCAA insist on enforCing its they had towork for a living like everyoneelse•? 
120-mile radius blackout rule when a baskeroall Who will come down with sudden case of the game is not sold out 48 hours in advance. pinstripe flu this year around July 8, date of the particularly if one of the teams (Purdue, before 1980 baseball All-Star game in Los Angeles? 
the St. John's game Sarurday) is not decided Will the pro basketball season end before July upon until less than 48 hours before tipoff? 8? 
Who do college basketball teams run their When will NBA games begin to mean regular offense and defense when the score is something for the playoffs? tied with five minutes left in regulation, but When will Brent Musberger begin to mean insist on playing cautiously when the score is anything? tied with five minutes left in an overtime? How many more comebacks and inevitable 
How many people have already torn up their retirements will Muhammad Ali consider before section or office basketball tournament pool he ends his ring career? 
after last weekend's ~ames? Will Ali face mandatory retirement at 65? What will the DePaul .er ... Chicago Tn"bune Where has Ali's shadow, Howard Cosell, been 
cover now? hiding recently? Will Jane Byrne get a daily diary? Does anyone care? 
When will the Chicago Cubs or Cleveland Will NBC, the same network that offered the Indians win a pennant again? Professional Roller Disco Champonships on For how many more years will we have to read Sportsworld ever match ABC's profes~ional about how long it takes Reggie Jackson to get to Olympic coverage? 
the Yankees' training camp? Is John Brodte the peacock's answer to Jim Maybe Reggie just gets lost ... or is he always McKay? 
lost? Wouldn't the world be a lot nicer place to live 
Will Billy Martin set a new American League if the U.S. and Russian basketball teams just record by managing all 14 teams in the league played a game to decide who getsAfghanistan? ... during his career? . or better yet, have the hockey teams play?
. Will Reggie Jackson be traded t'b Oakland JUSt · If so, would we have to play-by the1r rules? 
In:Sh track co-captain jay Miranda [in the lead above] will to make things mteresting? Is "intensity' an overused word in sports travel with his two-mile relay teammates to Detroit for thz:S Will Oakland ever be traded to Denver? quotes? weekend's NCAA championships. [photo by]ohn Macor] When will fans stop listening to the gripes of I wonder what Al McGuire is doing next year? 



} 
I 
I 








