, , .Press -page 2 
VOL.XV, NO. 'o 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Republicans win big; Reagan defeats ·Carter 
By Tom jackman Executive News Editor 
Republican Ronald Reagan 
was elected the 40th president of 
the United States last night, 
apparently swamping incumbent 
President Jimmy Carter by a 
la~ge electoral. vote margin. 
7\s early as 8.15 p.m., NBC-TV 
projected that Reagan would be 
the victor, and Carter conceded 
the election at 9:40 p.m. 
In his concession speech, Carter said, "The people of the United States have made their choice and ofcourse I accept that decision, although not with the same enthusiasm I accepted it four years ago." 
Prior to his speech, Carter 
phoned Reagan to congratulate 
him, and offered to assist in an 
orderly transition. 
According to an Associated Press tally of actual returns at 1 a.m., Reagan had won 27 states with 307 electoral votes, and 50 · 
'percent of the popular vote. 
lcarter had pic"ked up five states 
with 35 electoral votes and 43 ,percent of the vote. John 'Anderson had won no states, but ldid garner six percent of the ! popular vote. 
Most network projections had 
Reagan's electoral lead even 
wider than the AP's, with some 
giving Reagan over 440 electoral 
votes, to less than 50 for Carter. 
The word "landslide" arose more 
and more often as the evening 
wore on. 
In key "battleground" states, 
where it was believed Carter had 
to win, Reagan won every time. 
Ohio, Illinois, Pennsylvania, 
Texas and New York, all states 
with more than 2' electoral votes 
and usually deemed too close to 
predict, all were won by Reagan, 
sometimes by surprising mar­
gins. 
Not so surprising was Reagan's victory in Indiana, where he won 56 percent ofthe vote to Carter's 38 percent, with five percent for 
John Anderson and one percent for Libertarian Ed Clark. Indiana was the first state in the nation to come under the Reagan victory column. 
The Reagan victory spear­headed a Republican renaissance nationwide, as conservatives won at least six Senate seats and at least 25 House seats from in­cumbent Democrats. Senate notables such as George McGovern, Warren Magnuson and Frank Church were all un­seated by Republicans. 

Students voted in Stepan Center yesterday in the national and regional elections. (Photo by jane Ahern) 

!GOP sweeps localpolitical contests 
By The A.r.rouoted Pre.r.r 

The Republican Party scored a clean sweep in the three major local political contests last night, as both Dan Quayle and John Hiler registered upsets over congressional stalwarts Birch Bayh andJohn Brademas resgec­tively. Lt. Gov. Robert Orr was also victorious over Democrat 
John Hillenbrand. 
With 75 percent of the Third District vote in, Brademas, 53, the House Majority Whip, held 46 percent of the vote to Hiler's 54 percent with a 10 468 vote 
, ' 
lead. 

With 81 percent of the state's 4,665 precincts reporting, Quayle had 55 percent of the vote to Bayh's 45 percent. 
With 81 percent ofthelndiana precincts in, Orr had a solid 59 percent to 41 percent lead over Hillenbrand. 
City claims 'get -tough ' approach 
Edlior's Note: Although violent crimes have decreased as he weathergets colder, off-campus crime on the whole ts sttll ainful~y evident to Notre Dame .rtudents living in South 
end. In the following three-part series, The Observer 'Xamines theproblems ofthe Northeast Neighborhoodfrom ifferent viewpoints -from the angle of the South Bend dmimstration, the South BendPolice Department, andthe al residwts, both permanent and tramient. Today: part 
o: the city admimstration. 
By Tim Vercellotti Senior Staff Reporter 

Throughout the semester, robberies and assault ave been committed against students living off­ampus. These incidents have been faithfully re­orted in this newspaper, with comments coming om students, administration, and police officials. ne voice that has been noticeably absent from 1e situation is that of the the city ofSouth Bend. he word from the County-City Building is one of mcern; concern for those students living off~ 
unpus, and also concern for their neighbors. South Bend City Attorney Richard Hill ex­essed a "gt-t-tough" attitude in the city's fight 
•ainst crime in the Northeast neighborhood. 
e will do what we can to get the prosecutor to e the strongest charges possible, and to make 1re that the criminal doesn't get off lightly," Hill a ted. 

Along with pressing stronger charges, the city is taking measures in other areas, particularly in beefing up the local police force. Towards this end the city has earmarked $120,000 for use by the police department in paying officers for overtime work. Also, it was announced recently that 11 men are being trained for active duty on the force, and they should be ready in 12 months. 
Hill pointed out that along with squad cars and foot patrols, the police department has developed a decoy program, whereby an officer, dressed as a student and armed with a backup force, becomes a "sitting duck" for would-be assailants. This has met with some success, the most recent being the apprehension of ·five youths after a mugging occurred outside of Lee's Grill and Barbecue. . 
"We will continue to have people in the North­east Neighborhood at key hours in undercover status," Hill promised. It is Hill's hope that this program will get the word to the streets that "the city is cracking down." 
According to Hill, there is another area where the city can improve the the protection of stu­dents, and that is in the quality of the houses that are rented. Action can be taken on the part of the city through the Sub-standard Building Program. In this program the city can inspect a home, and if a 
(continued Ofl page 9) 
Hiler, in ~is victor~. remar~s. 
referred to htmself as the pomt man of the effort to change the directi?n .?f the C~)Untry." ~e also satd, We .are .mdeed gomg to lead the natiOn m the decade of the '80s." 
Brademas conced.ed ..defeat about 8:30 p.m., saymg I con­gratulate Mr. Hiler on his victory and I want to extend my deep appreciation to all of you...who have helped me in this congres­sional campaign." 
Hiler had hammered away at the economy and unemploy­ment, in a district in which unemployment has ranged from 10 to 15 percent. 
Democratic State Chairman Donald F. Michael commented, "John Brademas will be sorely 
• missed if indeed he has lost. His opponent will find he'll spnd three to four sessions in Con­gress before they give him the key to the men's room. That's• the way it works in Congress." Democratic incumbent Bayh succumbed to the fourth term jinx last night: no Indiana sen­ator has ever won reelection to a fourth term. "Birch Bayh served with dis­tinction, he served well," said the 'victorious Quayle. "But it's time for a change. I represent a new 'generation of leadership." Noting that professional polls had predicted an exceedingly 
'close race, Quayle said, "we expected to have to wait until the wee hours of the morning." 
Hostages see first 
•


anntversary 
by The A.rsociated Press 

Tens of thousands of Iranians 
rallied at the U.S. Embassy in 
Tehran yesterday, marking the 
first anniversary of its capture 
with celebration, revolutionary 
rhetoric and flaming effigies of 
the man whose future was being 
decided by American voters. 

The Iranian Foreign Ministry, 
meanwhile, pressed the Carter 
administration for a quick, pub­
lic response to its conditions for 
release of the 52 U.S. hostages, 
now beginning their second year 
in captivity. U.S. officials have 
said the conditions will be 
studied carefully before a re­
sponse is made. They have 
warned against expectations ofa 
quick solution. 

The demonstrators shouted 
"Death to American Imperial­
ism" and carried placards reading 
"Shame on Carter." Papier­
mache renderings of the U.S. 
president were set ablaze under 
sunny skies and brightly-colored 
banners denouncing the United 
States. 

The demonstrators included 
Iranian troops and revolutionary 
guards, many carrying rifles with 
flowers protruding from the bar­
rels, and thousands of school 
children, Western reporters said. 
Estimates ofthe size ofthe crowd 
ranged from tens ofthousands by 
the reporters to hundreds of 
thousands by the official Iranian 
news agency Pars. 

Speeches inside the 27-acre 
embassy compound were broad­
cast outside, and Western repor­
ters said the rally could be heard 
for blocks. 

Presumably, it also could be 
heard by some of the hostages. 
Iran claims it scattered them 
around the country following an 
aborted U.S. rescue attempt 
April 25. Recent reports, how­
ever, say most are now at the 
embassy. Three of the hostages 
have been in the custody of the 
Iranian Foreign Ministry since 
the Nov. 4, 1979, takeover. 

The reporters said no one was 
allowed in the embassy buil­
dings. 

Prime Minister Mohammad 
Ali Rejai said regardless of the 
outcome of the hostage matter 
the United States would re~ain 
Iran's No. 1 enemy. "The U.S. 
will continue its assault against 
us," he said. 

Carter, voting in Plains, Ga., yesterday, did not comment directly on negotiations over the .hostages. But he said American frustrations over the issue "has been a negative factor" in his 
campaign. 

The year ofcaptivity was noted in the United States with sub­dued observances marked by patriotism and prayers. A chilly dawn rally in Hermitage, Pa., on 
( amtiflued of/ Paxe 5) 
==============*===============~================== 
---~-......----------------­
r 



News Brie/§ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Birch Bayh's camoais:rn said yester­
day that a complaint will be filed witfi the Yederal Election 
Commission against Faith America and the Dan Quayle 
Campaign Committee. David Bochnowski ofBayh's office said 
the Arizona-based Faith America group is trying to influence 
the Indiana Senate race with literature that tries to associate 
Bayh with the Anti-Family Protection Act Literature printed 
by Faith America also charges the Hoosier Democrat with 
being against voluntary prayer in public schools and the right­
to-life amendment, Bochnowski said The Bayh campaign 
official said the pamphlet was "full of lies and distortions." 
Bochnowski said tlhat because Quayle's campaign people 
represented the pamphlets and distributed them as campaign 
literature, the Quayle campaign will also be mentioned in the 
complaint of a violation of federal election laws. Meanwhile, 
Mark Miles ofthe Quayle campaign calledBayh's plan to file the 
complaint a last-minute political game. Miles said that while 
Faith America is not registered with the Federal Election 
Commission, he contended the group does not have to be since 
the non-profit group is not a political action committee. -AP 
US and Soviet negotiators yesterday held their seventh meeting on limiting nuclear missiles in Europe. Spurgeon M. Keeny Jr. and Viktor P; Karpov and their delegations met for two hours and 20 minutes at the Soviet d1plomatic mission here, U.S. sources said, without giving further details. The closed "Euromissile" talks began Oct. 21. The meetings have alternated between the U.S. Arms Control Office and the Soviet mission. -AP 
Ronald R.eag_an was a 9-5 favo.rite 
over President Carter m closmg odds at a downtown casmo, oddsmaker Bob Martin said yesterday. Before the Carter­Reagan debate last month, Martin had said the odds were "6-5, take your pick," meaning he saw the race as a dead heat. "The closing odds right now all favor Reagan and should be9-5," said Martin, who sets the betting line for the sports book at the Union Plaza Hotel in the downtown Casino Center. Meanwhile in London, Ladbroke's closed betting on the presidential election with Reagan favored over Carter after what the bookmakers described as a "hectic" day yesterday. Ladbroke's closing prices were Reagan 1-5, meaning bettors had to bet five pounds to win one, Carter 3-1, and independentJohn Anderson 500-1.-AP 
For $50,JulieLewis will bring a papier-mache volcano to your house and liven up your party with a mock eruption complete with plenty of green smoke, flash powder, and strobe lights. 1:he 25-year-old graduate student at the University of Oregon Health Sciences Center said she got the idea for her business, known as Eruptions Ltd., after Mount St. Helens first dusted Portland with ash on May 25, forcing residents to stay indoors. "I thought, 'Why not have a volcano party?"' recalled Ms. Lewis, who likes to be known pro­fessionally as "Magma Woman." Her 2 1/2-foot-tall simulated volcano, with a metal stovepipe inside, is delivered to en­gagem.:nts by two friends, Wes Lewis and Rob Connell, whom she calls "my molten men." They dress in black coveralls, while Ms. Lewis wears a black cape and makes herself up with blue cheeks, silver nose shadow, scarlet eyebrows and black-rimmed lips to further her image. Forsound effects, she plays recordings of a:1. atomic bomb explosion and an amplined recording of"A nigt t On Bald Mountain."-AP 
A 43-year-old California man 
has been sentenced to a year and a day in prison for trying to defraud the family ofJimmy Hoffa by offering to disclose the whereabouts of the missing Teamsters leader for $100,000. JohrrBarber Logsdon, of Bellflower, pleaded guilty in federal court to three counts ofwire fraud, saying he called members of the Hoffa family in 1975 with "intent to defraud" Hoffa vanished July 30, 1975. He was last seen outside theMachusRed Fox Restaurant inBloomfield Township, Mich. Atthe time, the 62-year-old Hoffa was trying to regain the Teamsters presi­dency. -AP 
Mostly sunny breezy an~ cool to?ay, high in the mid and upper 40s. Clear and cold tomght, low m the upper 20s and low 30s. Mostly sunny and not quite so cool tomorrow, high in the upper 40s and low 50-s. -AP 
---~--~~-~--­
Wednesday, November 5, 1980 -page 2 
Inside Wednesday 


Power of the press 
The power of the press is virtually limitless. Recent headlines splashed across the front pages ' ofestablished and respected tabloids have proven that the press has the power to destroy. It makes us wonder why such press powers as The Chicago Tribune, The New York Daily News and The Wtl.fhington Post would stoop to levels ofvery cheap sensational journalism. 
Take for example the soap-operatic saga of Mary Cunningham, the vice-president of Bendix Corporation who was accused by the company's Board of Trustees and by the press of granting "bedroom" priveleges in exchange for her position in the company. In a series of installments that appeared in The Chicago Sun-Times, Mary's life story was made known nationwide. And what a story it was. Every phase of the young executive's life was revealed including her mother's love for the family priest which caused an inevitable separation from her alcoholic husband, Mary's rebellious marriage to Howard Gray, a Chase Manhattan vice-president who happened to be black and twelve years her senior and her unacceptable friendship with Bendix president William Agee. Cunningham's story had all the ingredients for a sizz­ling melodrama: office "hanky-panky", obsessive ambition, feminism and business back-stabbing. And the press played it to the hilt. 
Headlines such as "The Bendix Affair," "What Makes Mary Fly?" and "Ambition and the Angel" appeared in papers im­mediately after Mary Cunningham was forced to resign because she was "reluctant to bring further notoriety to Bendix." There were some editors, however, who refused to print the saga because it was nothing more than a cheap shot based totally on biased conjectures. These papers might have missed out on a few more editions being bought, but they didn't miss the, main point of the whole drama­that sexual discrimination does exist and will continue to exist as long as qualified women,like Mary Cunningham, strive for top-notch positions in large corporations. 
The problem here is that there are many young women executives across the country who are capable of holding top ·corporate positions but they are either inhibited or stifled by Board members, co-workers and the press.· Ambition, drive and even ruthlessness, traits needed to be successful in the business world, are admired in men, yet are forbidden in women. The press had the perfect opportunity to right a social and business injustice, yet it opted to exploit and exaggerate a very ambiguous situation. 
Design Edtfor ........ President Scoop De.rign Assistants .. .......... Patty Fox Day/NightTechnician.r... Bruce Oakley/ Mike Jans News Ed1~or ............ Tom Jackman Copy Edt~or .... Lyqne "Mayor" Daley Typists . .............. Bridget Bloechl Marilyn Broderick System.r Tt•chnician ....... Steve Brown Bill Marquard ND Da)' Editor . ...... Plain old Molly Noland Photographer ........ __ .. _.Jane Ahern Guest Appearances .. .. Margie, Pam. AJ, Paul Riehle, Mike, another AJ, etc., etc.. John  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer ls8ubllshed by the students of Notre ame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by wrl!ing The Observer. P.O. Box a. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved.  

Pam 
Degnan 
News Editor 

The bottom line is that sexual discrimination in the office will continue to fester as long as the press continues to promote such cheap shot journalism. Based on the facts available, Mary Cunningham was promoted notbecause she was" easily accessible" to the company boss, or because she was a "token woman" as was depicted by the press, but because she was a domineering, ambitious business executive who knew her stuff. 
Another problem I have trouble dealing with is Mary Cunningham's resignation from Bendix. The reason: too much adverse publicity for the company and for herself. Granted, it must have been extremely difficult for Cunningham to face 
tongue-wagging rumors and gossip, but to resign from a position that she had worked so hard to achieve was only self-defeating. Cunningham jumped into a grave that was convenient­ly dug for her. 
Yes, the press has an ob­ligation to report the news­but news based on fact. Lately, the print media has strayed from this main objective, leaving behind a trail of unsubstantiated stories and horrendous headline&. The press, it appears; can make or break a person. But is that what journalism is cracked up to be? Ifit is then we are all in for one bad trip. 

Observer Notes 
Observer announces news staff promotions 
The Observer news department has announced 
the promotion of five of its reporters in the last week. Sophomore Tim Vercellotti has been promoted to senior staff reporter, and junior Mary Agnes Carey and freshmen Dave Rick­abaugh, David Sarphie, Mike O'Brien and Anne Jane Dregalla were promoted to the position of 
staff reporter. 


~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
,-­
The Observer Wednesday, November 5, 1980-page 3 
.---R-IY_e_rC_lty_R_ec_o-rds_&_J_a_m_Pr_od-uc-t-lo_ns_P-re_sen_t_..,. .For CBS News 


VANHALEN 
IN C()NCEIU 

Special Guest 
TALAS 
Thursday, November 6 e 8 p.m. Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets: $8.50 reserved seats still available at the ACC Box Office and River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North -3 miles north of campus. 
River City Records 8c Jam Productions Present AN EVENING WITH 

Friday, November 14 • 8:00 p.m. Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets: $9.00/$8.00 all seats reserved. Good seats still available at the ACC Box Office and River City Records, 509·70 U.S. 31 North -3 miles north of campus 

$1.00 OFFI 
any regular album or tape purchase with this coupon. Limit 1 per person. Expires 
· Nov. 30, 1980 

ND area indicates trends 
By Mike O'Brien Staff Reporter 
Voters in theNotre Dame area held a key position in Walter Cronkite's election estimates last night as the University voting district, Portage Township pre­cinct number one, was one of 4,000 sample districts across the country polled by CBS News to determine voting trends. 
Bro. John Lavelle, Democrat precinct committeman, phoned in results from the district to a special CBS telephone bank in New York as soon as the local booths closed at 6 p.m. The net­work used local tabulations on the presidental and state-wide senatorial, gubernatorial, and congressional races in its predic­tions. District officials took part in a rehearsal polling with CBS this week. 
Lavelle reported that this is the first time, to the best of his knowledge, that the district has been surveyed by one of the major news networks on election day. He suggested that CBS viewed this as an average district, possibly reflective of national sentiment. 
Precinct judge .Rufus W. Rauch, ND professor emeritus of English, said that he had a hunch that CBS was using the district as an indication of Catholic And traditional Demo­cratic party support this year. He guessed that the tight congres­sional battle between John Brademas and John Hiler further heightened the precinct's impor­tance. 
Rauch added that voters were spending a great amount of time in the polls, indicating that split­voting was going on. He said CBS may have been interested in the chances of this split-factor be­cause of the tight congressional race. 
Portage district one currently has 1,164 registered voters, 40 percent of which had already voted four hours before the polls were scheduled to close. 
For Iranian concessions 



Iraq offers withdrawal 
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP)-Iraqi President Saddam Hussein whose troops have captured ~ large chunk ofsouthwestern Iran in six weeks of war, offered yesterday to withdraw the in­vasion force if the Iranians recognize Iraqi "rights" to con­trol of the Shatt al-Arab estuary. 
If the Iranians do not accede, Iraq will fight on and its demands may increase, Hussein told the Iraqi National Assembly. 
"War always produces addi­tiona! rights for the conqueror," he said in a speech. 
Iran rejects Iraqi territorial claims, including the claim to full sovereignty over the Shatt a!­Arab, the disputed waterway that separates the two countries at the head of the Persian Gulf. 
There was no immediate re­action from Iran to Hussein's statement, but the Iranians have refused to consider a cease-fire until after Iraqi troops are with­drawn from Iranian territory. 
The development came as an effort by the Non-Aligned Movement to mediate an end to the war broke down. 
On the battlefront, the Iraqis claimed their forces had "massacred" an Iranian brigade that tried to break out of the besieged city of Abadan in a desperation counter-attack. 
Since invading Iran Sept. 23, the Iraqi army has overrun much of southwestern Iran's oil-rich Khuzistan province and has a number of major cities under attack, including Abadan, site of Iran's biggest oil refinery. 
Hussein said his government is prepared to withdraw its forces "as from tomorrow" in exchange for "a full recognition of its rights," the Iraqi News Agency said. 
Under a 1975 agreement, the Iran-Iraq border was drawn down the middle of the Shatt al-Arab. Under earlier treaties the water­way was totally under Iraqi sov­ereignty. Hussein renounced the 1975 accord just before the out­break of the war. 
The Iraqis also are pressing territorial claims farther north on the Iran-Iraq border, and demand that three Persian Gulf islands seized by Iran in 1972 be returned to "Arab" control. Iran is not an Arab country; the Persians are the dominant ethnic group. 
Adding to the recent tensions between the two countries had been Iranian leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's efforts to foment rebellion against Hussein in Iraq, and the Iraqis support for anti-Khomeini dissi­dents among the Arabic-speak­ing population of Khuzistan. 
Earlier yesterday, it was repor­ted from Yugoslavia that a six-member mission of the Non-Aligned Movement gave up its peace efforts for now after the Iranian government again "cate­gorically rejected" all mediation 
Gennan Club plans neUJ year 
By Monique Fedor 
The Saint Mary's German Club, which was formed m . September under the guidance of Dr. Nicholas Meyerhofer, seeks to create an informal congenial atmosphere where its 30 student members can help each other learn and understand the language and custom of the German culture. 
· This is the first German Club 
to  be  established  at  Saint  
Mary's.  
. Plans  for  this  year  as  

announced by President Joy Fisher include a trip to 
Chicago's Germantowne to view a typical German com­munity that still holds and practices the same custom as many parts of Germany. The club has planned many fest­ivities to celebrate the St. Nicholas day in early Dec­ember. Festivities will feature a booth at the LeMans Hall Christmas Market to sell European foods and crafts. Fishers expressed the hope that the German Club will help students develop proficency in the German language while spending time having a good ume with friends. She said that the Club offers a great 
opportunity for students who have been or are planning to go abroad to Inns brock to come tog~ther and share their ex­pertences. 
A "Stammtisch" is held on the second and fourth Tuesday every month in the Wed~e­room at Saint Mary's to gtve German-speaking students a place to share their meals and 
'converse in German. On the 
·first and third Tuesday in the McCandless Hall piano room the club holds thetr meeting, which usually consists of authentic German food, polka dance lessons, and discussions of German interests. 


Buy 


Observer Classifieds 
• 

The Observer Wednesday, November 5, 1980 -page4 

-­
,·.·k
,-.;1, 
·I .«-.. 
Tbc S11itc Mll.rmmof Art ir.rdll:d11lcdtoojJl!fl thir S11nday. (Photo kY}anc A/Jcm) 


• 
This coupon entitles you to your first Rezound copy for just 99c; at 

• 
any participating dealer. Additional copies of your original 

• 
cassette are at regular pric·es (see below). The Rezound copy cassette and the high-speed service are included in one price. 


LENGTH OF APPROXIMATE REGUlAR WITH
•• 99¢

• CASSETTE COPY TIME PRICE COUPON
=INT~TORY : ::~~;::::::: :; ::~~;:s:::::::: :~~:~::::::::: ::~ 
90 minute ....... 3 minutes......... $3.79 . . . . . . . . 99(=~D 120 minute ....... 4 minutes......... $4.79 ........ 99( 
AI group meets today 
Amnesty International, group 43, will hold a general meeting today at 4:15 p.m. in La­Fortune center. All members are asked to attend. Anyone interested in joining the group is also invited. 
Foliowing the meeting, the movie "Collision Course" will be shown. This film deals with the human rights situation i,n 

the Phillipines.  .  
Students can travel abroad  
Dr.  By Ezleen Mutphy Anthony R. Black,  pro­ 

fessor of history at Saint 
Mary's, is once again organ­
izing the summer abroad pro­
grams is London ·and Rome. 
This will be the eighth year 
that ·saint Mary's has spon­
sored the travel program. _/ 
"Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students, as well as their friends are welcome on the trip," said Black. Last year almost eighty students enjoyed two months studying and touring on the Continent. 
Trave~ with the London pto­gram mcludes a month-long tour of Britain, France and Ireland. The Rome tour, which follows the London tour, runs from June 15 to July 14 including visits to France, Germany, Switzerland, and Italy. 
Black stressed .the fact that students have the option of taking courses for credtt. "The tour is a good way to combine travel and academics. The faculty group is the largest by far," he added. A diverse group of professors is joining the tour including Doug Tyler of the Art Department; Don Balka, Math; and Professors Martucci and Lynch, Nursing. The cost of the trip, which 

jncludes air travel to Europe, 
travel in Europe, living ac­
comodations, and all meals 
amount to $1795. Black 
termed the package ''the best 
value'' for the student dollar 
and encouraged all interested ! 
students to take advantage of 
the opportunity to meet with 

• faculty and students who went last year at meetings this month on both campuses. 
Notre Dame students will meet in the lounge of Walsh Hall on Nov. 17 at 7 p.m. Interested Saint Mary's stu­dents will meet in room 232 of Moreau Hall at 7 p.m. on Nov. 18. 


Kate Meagher enjoys jeffMesser's !-shirt depicting Btfl Shakespeare. A Shakespeare film festival begins this S11nday ifl the Engineering Audt~ tortitm. (Photo by jane Ahern) 

~ 40sfat d 
f) Show Us You're Nuts! 'iJ 
• • • 

•• t Executive Staff Applications Due and interview t
• t t
= 
sign up by Tuesday Nov. 11. . 
Applications available in Student Government 
office.
=t t Positions Wanted: t t 
Thursday Chr. Friday Chr. Sat. Chr.
t t
CASSETTECOPYlNGCENTERS Retailer Redemption Procedvre: When cashing this coupon, • 
Keeper of the Zoo 2 Asst. Chr.
• please circle the copy cassette size and initial it at the time of 
t t
• 
purchase. Then anytime after the date of this promotion, send us • Special Events Night Events Booklet 

• 
your coupons for redemption. We will replace each coupon with a • Publicity Secretary Comptroller t fresh cassette and invoice you at seventy cents ($.70) each • 


• 
Irish Wake Personnel Recess
• regardless of cassette size. Send to: 1401-B West River Road t t • North, Mpls., MN 55411 Coupon Expires 11/15/80 • 
Any Questions Call Mitch@ 233-2618
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• t t 
-~---------------------------------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, November 5, 1980-page 5 
'Oak Room Qde' 

transparency on a sunny day. (Photo by jane Ahern) 


Student Union expands services 
By Katie McDonnell 
Student Union recently an­nounced several new additions to their long list ofservices and activities for Notre Dame by creating the Oak Room Cafe and an expanded J;>rogram for the Student Umon Ticket offices. 
The Oak Room Cafe, tent­atively set to open Nov. 10, wiU transform the (>Ublic cafeteria of the South Dming Hall into an informal snacking and social area for all interested students. 
According to Student Union Director Rich Coppola, the public cafeteria was once used for the same purpose in 1978 while the Huddle Snack Shop was being renovated, but was then closed when the Huddle became ready for use. 
"By openin~ the Oak Room Cafe," he satd, "we hopefully 




The right place... at the righttime. 

Obviously, starting your career in the right place ... at the right time ... has a lot to do with your career development. If you're looking for the right place in banking, the right time is NOW to start with National Bank of Detroit. 
With your MBA, National Bank of Detroit can offer you career path opportunities in Commer­cial Lending. NBD is the largest bank in the Michigan-Ohio-Indiana region ... among th• top 20 in the United States ... and a subsidiary of Na­tional Detroit Corporation. THE NEW YORK TIMES Performance Summary for major U.S. re­gional banks ranked National Detroit Corporation AFfH in terms of return on average assets for 1979, noting: "Analysts say that National Detroit is also particularly well managed ...." 
A strong capital position ( 1979 net income of $75,604,000) and sound rate of return for aver­age shareholders' equity (14.2% on net income) require attracting and retaining high caliber MBA graduates to help us achieve significant expan­sion of our asset and profit potentials. Our growth goals provide exciting incentives ... and will be creating an alternative to both food sales and the Huddle for'students to go to at ni ht." 
this new service will bring many kinds of short-order foods to the South Quad, such as hamburgers, hot dogs, etc., and various snacks, ice cream items, and soft drinks, too. Weekly hours for the cafe will be: Sunday through Thursday, 8 p.m. to midnight; and Friday and Saturday, 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. The Oak Room Cafe will be run by Saga Food Services and the South Dining Hall staff. 
Student Union's Ticket office has undergone renovations of its own recently with the expansion of several student servcices. The Student Union Record Store, for example, has now increased its hours for weekly service. This discount collection of albums is located 
opportunities ... for your career advancement. 
You'll find Detroit to be the right place to work and play. Our new 110-acre riverfront complex, highlighted by the majestic $350 million Renais­sance Center, has been a springboard of revival for Detroit's downtown area. Within a 500-mile radius, you'll find nearly half of the nation's popu­lation, retail sales and businesses-and more than half of the total U.S. consumer spendable income, business payroll, work force, and manu­facturing employment. And Michigan is a state geared for fun as well as commerce. 
Start your career in banking at the right place-National Bank of Detroit. The right time is NOW. Review our annual report and register for an interview at your placement office ... or con­tact us directly. We think you'll be glad you did! 
m 
NATIONAL BANK OF DETROIT 
611 Woodward Avenue Detroit, Michigan 48226 

An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F-We Employ the Handicapped 
MBA Candidates: Register in the Placement Office for a November on-campus NBD interview! 
' 

on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune Student Center, and is now open from 8 to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. 
Album seekers can choose from $8.98 list price discs and pay $5.99, or choose from list pnce albums of $7.98 and pay $5.45. In addition, any album not in stock at LaFortune can be ordered with a one-week delivery allowance. 
Tickets for concerts can be obtained from the Student Union, too, as well as discount rates for movies at the Pritt Forum and University Park Theatres. 
Any suggestions concerning the Oak Room Cafe or any of these other services are wel­come, and should be directed towards the Student Union offices. 
...Iran 

[continued from page 1] 
Monday attracted about 300 people. A high school band played "The Star Spangled Banner" and 52 candles were lit. 
Yesterday, Iran's Foreign Ministry said a U.S. government note delivered by the Swiss am­bassador in Tehran on Monday contained "some provisions ... which are contrary" to the de­
• 

mands, Pars reported. Rajai, quo­ted by Tehran Radio, said Iran had received a message from Carter "in which he commented generally on the issue." 
The Foreign Ministry said the Algerian ambassador in Wash­ington had been asked to request the Carter administration reply as soon as possible to Iran's official text of the conditions for the release "and they should notify the peoples of the world through the mass media of this matter." 

Backpacker 
soft, extra-wann, 550 down­
filled jacket has a short·waisted cut with elastic knit around the bottom, a corduroy·lined collar, 
adownproof Softron shell with water-repellent ZE PEL' finish. 


~tpost
Jradina

Compcmy 
16533 Cleveland Road 
I. 


~-------~-----------­
The Observer Wednesday, November 5, 1980-page 6 

f'..leeded: 
Assistant Design Editor for Thurs. nights Paid Position -Late night work For more info, call John at 8661 or 1947 

Father John Nicola speaks on 

Exorcism, Satan and Demonology 
November 10, 1980 -Monday­
8:30 library Auditorium 
free~ admission sponsored by SU Acade~mic Commission 
Meg Klingenberger, a junior from Indiana's 4th district, poses with her representative, Dan Quayle. She wasa congressional intern during] uly and August in Washington, D. C Quayle defeated Birch Bayh for a senateseat last night 


Also nuclear plants 
Money dominates state ballots 
(AP) Tax cuts, restrictions on nuclear plants, limits on smoking
'I 
in public, and a plan to let hunters shoot mourning doves were among ballot measures that voters considered in 42 states yesterday. 
Eighteen states had taxing or 
• 

spending limits on ballots, many 
ofthem modeled after California's 
Proposition 13 passed 2 years 
ago which rolled property taxes 
back, then capped them in the 
future. 
California was out of the tax 
limelight this time, after its 
voters trounced an income tax­
slashing measure in June, but 
heated battles over tax measures 
took place in · Michigan, 
Massachusetts and Ohio. 
In Michigan, three separate proposals vied for approval. The biggest tax cut appeared in the so-called "Tisch proposal," which would roll back property taxes to 1978 levels, then slice them in half. 
Ohio's "Issue 2," nearly ruled off the ballot in a ~;:ourt challenge last month, would hike taxes for those earning at least $30,000 and would increase business taxes. Public employee unions, which have consistently opposed Proposition 13-style ballot mea­sures as a threat to their jobs, supported Issue 2. 
In Massachusetts, a heavily taxed state, Proposition 2 would gradually reduce property taxes to 2 
percent of market values. 
Iowans considered whether to hold a constitutional conven­tion, with the main impetus a desire to draft a constitutional amendment that would ·perma­nently cut taxes. 
Also considering tax or spen­ding limits were Arizona, Arkansas, Louisiana, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Jersey, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington and West Virginia. 
Washington, D.C., voters con­sidered starting the process for the nation's capital to become the 51st state. 
D.C. voters joined West Virginia, Texas and Missouri in deciding whether to allow bingo or raffles by nonprofit charity or civic service groups. Colorado and Arizona voted on state-run lotteries. 
South Dakotans weighed a proposal to lift an eight-year ban on hunting mourning doves. 
In Kansas City, Mo., voters debated water fluoridation. 
In 3 3 Massachusetts commun­ities, voters were asked in a non­binding referendum whether future nuclear plant develop­ment should be halted. 
Measures aimed at limiting or halting nudear power develop­ment until safer means are found to dispose of radioactive waste 
were  on  ballots  in  Missouri,  
Oregon,  South  Dakota  and  
Montana.  



Senior Class Jeans Formal 
At Pardner' s Saloon 
(Formerly Cinnebar's) 
Sunday, Nov. 9  8:00p.m. to 1 a.m.  
$10 includes ­ Open Bar  
Live Band  
Free Pardner' s  
Membership Card  
($2.00 Value)  


Tickets on sale In Lemons Lobby and NO Dining Halls 


Wednesday, November 5, 1980-page 7






Editorials 
0 "

Experiments supPort abortion? 

On October 24, 1980 the South impact of many single experiments public decision. What will be the Bend Tribune carried a report that no less than by experiments which University's policy on future exper­Dr. Subhash C. Basu, of the Notre involve standing orders for the iments on the bodies of aborted Dame Department of Chemistry bodies of aborted babies. babies? In this writer's opinion, the had discovered a link between the It will be objected, on behalf ofthe duty of the University dedicated to absence of enzymes and various experiments, that much good will Our Lady is to refuse to traffic with brain diseases, including perhaps come of them. And I want to the abortion industry. Its duty in­Tay-Sachs disease. Dr. Basu's re­emphasize that the University offi-stead is to make a corporate com­search was conducted on "a cell cials, and particularly Dr. Basu have mitment, such as it has made with culture from the cerebrum of a 20 acted in good faith out ofworthy and respect to other civil rights, in week-old Tay-Sachs fetus obtained moral motives and after serious ,support ofthe restoration ofthe right by prostaglandin E induced abor­consideration. Nothing in these re-to live to th most defenseless of all tion." marks is intended in any way as a innocent human beings. 
On November 4, 1977, the Notre personal reflection on any of those 

Dame Committee for the Protection who have taken part in, or supported, Charles E. Rice is professor of 
of Human Subjects had approved the University's decision to proceed [all' at the Notre Dame Law School. 
Dr. Basu's proposed experiments. with this experimentation. However, 
After objections were raised to these 
the public announcement that the==================================--========~ 
experiments by several faculty experiments in this case produced 
members, the University authorities useful results requires that the Univ-
consulted with campus theologians ersity make a public decision as to its 
and approved the experiments. The future course in matters of this sort. 
Board of Trustees upheld the de­In its 1973 decisions establishing 
Anthony Walton 
cision. permissive abortion as the "the law An experiment on the body of an of the land," the Supreme Court of I have made a serious mistake. Is it too late to 
servative phenomenon, and lately there seems aborted baby is not intrinsically the United States decreed that the take my vote back? In my ongoing search for 
to be a lot of concern about it. 
immoral. In general terms, the fact unborn child, at every stage of political nirvana I completely overlooked the As a matter of fact, it's pretty hard to find a that one experiment is on the body of gestation, is not a "person" within perfect ticket with the perfect platform, and 
liberal anymore. There are a few old war horses,a murder victim does not necessarily the meaning of the Constitution and even the best slogan. What I'd like to know is 
Teddy Kennedy and some other senators, a small deprive that experiment of moral therefore is not entitled to the rights, why I didn't find out until now. Has there been number ofcongressmen. But even these liberals 
validity, provided that the body has including the right to live, which are some kind of conspiracy to keep me from don't wear it on their sleeves anymore. Theybeen obtained with the consent of its protected for persons by that finding out about this? Where have these guys don't campaign with platforms trumpeting jus­
proper custodians. However. an Constitution. been hiding? This party wants to "humanize tice for everyone; they talk of using their ex­experiment on the body of an The basic principle ofthe abortion America" and end racism. It says so right on their 
perience to turn things around, to institute new abortion victim cannot be adequate­decisions is the principle that un­platform. They also promise to end war and policies. I think there is a direct relationshiply considered in isolation from the derlies the Nazi extermination ofthe "leave this environment cleaner and greener between the rise of religious involvement and overall context of abortion. Jews that an innocent human being than we found it." And that's just the beginning. the demise of liberal politics, at least in the last 
In proper context, it is clear that can be declared a non-person and Finally, here's a party that any sincere, thinking 
few years. The civil rights activities of the 60's such experimentation should be subjected to death at the discretion of Christian American can support with a clear was a time that certain churches, most notablyregarded as immoral by reason of others who consider him unfit to live. conscience. And they aren't even asking for Catholics, Jews, and certain liberal denomin­
extrinsic circumstances. For one It is also the principle of the Dred money. I should have' voted Socialist. 
ations got involved socially, but usually chur­thing, there is the incidental point Scott case, in which the Supreme Seriously. Look at it. Their platform reads like ches are strangely silent, something about that the consent to the dissection of Court in 1857 said that slaves were it was written by Jesus himself. These are their 
church and state being separate. And I see this the brains of this aborted baby was property rather than persons. basic aims: An immediate halt in preparations becoming more of a problem in the cominggiven by his mother who, in the An integral part of the Nazi for war, disarmament for survival, a crash de­
years. The country is definitely becoming more moral view. would hardly regard a extermination program was the util­velopment of safe energy, the use ofsolar power conservative, more xenophobic, more belliger­murderer as a proper party to con­ization ofthe victims both before and instead of nuclear power, better employment 
ent. As economic times have gotten worse, we sent to experimentation on his vic­after death. for medical experiments oppurtunities, an increase in technical and other have become much more selfish, to the point of tim. which yielded in some cases sig­aid to developing countries, the beginning of a wanting to blame the disadvantaged and out­
The basic point, however, is the nificant practical benefits. One shift in power from impersonal, centralized cor­siders for our problems. Reagan wants to abolish overall nature of abortion in this neuropathologist. Dr. Hallenvorden. porations to neighborhoods and democratic several federal agencies, "throw out the welfare country. Abortion is a major indus­who experimented on brains ob­unions, and social ownership of basic means of 
cheats," and achieve "peace through strength."try. Every year we wipe out at least tained from the killing centers for the production, with democratic controls and de­Reagan is not the only one, only the most visible. 
1.3 million innocent human beings insane, testified that "there was centralization. Listen to these quotes from their 
He has plenty of support.by abortion -a total equal to the wonderful material among those platform: "The small business person has an This disappearance ofliberal ideals is cause for combined populations of Kansas brains -beautiful mental defec­important role in modern society." No commies 
alarm because the problems of this country have City, Miami and Minneapolis. tives, malformations and early infan­here. "We are committed to a pluralistic multi­not disappeared. In fact they are getting worse. Every four months the death toll tile diseases. I accepted those brains, racial America. The struggle against racism is Minorities are losing ground economically and from abortion equals the total of course. Where they came from one of the most urgent matters facing America." socially, and the environment is still only mar­
and how they came to me was really
number of battle deaths we suffered Now who could be against that, other than a few ginally protected and cared for. In this wave of in World War II. About every seven none of my business." Leo scattered Nazis and Klanners? "We are opposed economically induced, selfish conservatism, we months we equal by deaths from Alexander, M.D. Medical to the terrorism of both the PLO and Israeli cannot lose sight of those that will suffer the 
abortion the total number of battle Science Under Dictatorship, strikes into Lebanon." They're even fair in 
most if these threats that the new conservative deaths our nation has suffered in New England Journal of foriegn policy. Who could want anything more? trend pose turn into reality. This is one of my 
every war in our history from Medicine, .July 14, 1949, 39,40 Okay, I'm being a little facetious, but ser­
problems with the Moral Majority and other Lexington and Concord to the end of This practice, of course, despite the iously, it is fascinating to read the platform ofthe such outfits. If they are truly concerned about 
Vietnam. scientific benefits derived from the Socialist Party. They seem to have just about the problems facing the country, why aren't theyIn proper context, experimenta­experiments, was condemned by the everything covered, and with such concern for 
talking about real Christian issues? No onetion on the bodies ofabortion victims Nuremberg Tribunal. 
everyone's well being, it makes you wonder why seems to be talking about religious issues, ex­lends ancillary support and respect­A good end, e.g., the eradication folks aren't lining up for miles to get in. It's cept the Socialists. And no one listens to them.
ability to the abortion industry of Tay-Sachs disease. does not 
probably because most of us now see the 
They are damn near communists.through the use of the bodies which justify the usc of whatever means are Socialists as hopeless idealists, and we figure that Where have all the liberals gone? I hope ju~tarc its only tangible products. When useful regardless of their morality. 
we have got to protect what we have and not 
hiding for a while. They may not be the bestNotre Dame experiments on a cell There is no way that any good end worry about anyone else. It's funny; with all this economists, but there are other problems in theculture from the brains of an aborted can justify literally picking the brains talk about "Christian nations," "Godless ath­
world besides the low DowJones average and the
baby, it acts as a consumer in the 
of the murdered victims of the eists," and the Moral Majority it makes me Russian strategic superiority. It's sad to see mendistribution chain of this industry of abortion industry in America. 
wonder ifJesus was a socialist. I find this ironic; 
like George McGovern, John Culver, and .John
legalized murder. Even a single The University, in this writer's whenever religion becomes an issue in political Brademas fighting for their political lives be­experiment done by a single experi­view which was stated to the discussions, it is usually negative, in that people cause of changing economic conditions. It'smenter could not be justified. Such a authorities at the time, made a ser­
complain about Catholics "interfering with state even sadder to see that the only party that is
single experiment must be multiplied 
ious mistake in its 1977 decision concerns," as exemplified by the recent furor actively acknowledging and pursuing answers·toby the many other experiments per­authorizing the experiments in ques­involving the archibishop of Boston and his 
social problems are the Socialists. LBJ, Robert.formed on abortion victims by other tion. Now: however, with the public involvement with a congressional primary, or Kennedy, and Hubert Humphrey must be rol­
single experimenters. Respectability announcement of the utilitarian 
the quiet rumblings againstJerry Falwell and his 
ling over in their graves. It's too bad that we can'tand legitimacy are conferred on the success of those experiments, the Moral Majority. Religious involvement in po­figure out a way to please everyone, short of theabortion industry by the cumulative University of Notre Dame faces a litical situations is usually perceived as a con-dubious promises of socialism. 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
F.dtlor-in-Chief .......... Paul Mullaney Sports Editor ............ Beth Huffman 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  Managing Editor ............. Mark Rust  Features Editor ........... Molly Woulfe  
The Obse111er is an independent nev.:spaper ~ublished by the students of the  Editorials Editor ......... Mike Onufrak  Photo Editor ........ , ..... .John Macor  
University of Notre Dame du ~.c and. Samt ~ary ~ C<?llese. It does not ~ecessanly reflect the policies of the admmtstrauon .of etthe~ m~utuuon. The news ~~ r.eporred as accurately and as objectively as posstble: Edtt~n~ls represent the optmon .of a majority of the Editorial Board .. Com~entanes, optmons, and letters are th.e v1ews  Senior Copy Editor .. ....... Lynne Daley Executive New.r Editor .... Tom Jackman New.r Editor .............. Pam Degnan  BIISifless Manager ......... Greg Hedges Cofltroller................... .Jim Rudd Advertising Manager .. ........ Mark Ellis  
of their authors. Column sr;>ace 1s. a:vatlable to all members of the c~mmumty, and  SMC Executive Editor .... Margie Brassil  Cinulation Manager.. ..... Beth Hackett  
the free expression of varymg optntons on campus, through letters, ts encouraged.  SMC News Editor ......... Mary Leavitt  Production Manager ..... .John McGrath  



4

The Observe1
7_-=-­



~~c:ll~~========================~==e=d=ne=s=d=a=y,=N==o=v=em==b=e=r=5=,=1=9=80==~=pa=g=e=8 



Campus 
•t2:15 
p.m. -micro­biolop;y dept. seminar ­"suppression of T lympho­cyte activity by b lympho­cytes" dr. jon r. schmidtke lilly research labs, 278 galvin.. 

• 
4 p.m. -dept. ofearth sciences lecture -"ore deposits of the central & northern rockies" dr. james e bever, Miamqoh.).u. 101 l'arth sciences. 

• 
7 p.m. film -"birth of a nation" 122 hayes-healy, spon: dept. of black studies. 

•7.9,11 
p.m. -film­"'dear inspector" engr. aud. sponsor: student union 

• 
7 p.m. -college bowl meeting-106 O'Shag. 

• 
7:30 p.m. -lectu_re..­·gems and gem matenal , lr. james e. bever, meeting rm. roseland st. joseph bank · 


& trust bldg, sponsor: dept of earth sciences. 
•R 
p.m. -show-"les caracteres" a show in french, little theatre smc, sponsor: dept. of modern languages. 

• 
8 p.m. -solo artist ­rick walters, guitarist, carroll hall smc, sponsor: student activities prog. board. 

• 
8 p.m. -lecture-"are the russians ten feet tall?" bv dr. thomas marullo, cav;­naugh hall study lounge. 

• 
8 p.m. -concert, lisa funston mahoney, flute, mem. lib. aud. 

• 
10 p.m. -mass for world's hungry, howard hall chapel 


Senatorial elections postponed 
Elections for the four on­
campus and the off-campus 
District Senators have been 
postponed one week. The 
offictal reasons cited was a 
conflict with the Presidential 
elections. 
The revised schedule is as 
follows: Nov. 10, mandatory 
meeting to pick up petitions 
and rules at the Student 
Government Offices; Nov. 11, 
petitions returned; Nov. 13, 
caompaigning begins; and 
Nov. 17, district elections. 

Michael Molinelli 





FIND APLACE TO STAND FIRST TWO HOURS 
BILL, lt'OU ~AVE THE 

WHERE lt'OU COULD SPOT ANI{ INTRUDERS... 
ACROSS 27 Football 1 Livestock coach Tom feed 30 Lorna of 
5 Custom song 10 The great· 32 Cry 
est 35 Burglar ­14 One opposed 36 Fender mark 15 West Indian 37 Adore 

sorcery 38 Ban 16 Elliptical 39 Cluster 17 Monogram 40 Too bad! 
part: abbr. 41 Harrow's 18 Piece rival of pie 42 Destroy 19 Las Vegas 43 Gabble offering 44 Johnny ­
20 Name In 45 Corner a rights 46 Hush·hush decision 47 Satchel 
22 Crime 48 Indian 24 "-Rae" princess 26 A Fleming 50 Crime 
The Daily Crossword 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

THE BIRTH

Tcrnczs 
OFA 
1161 -1,81 
NATION 
, ..]entlemen: 

The Franciscan Friars in Mishawaka invite you to spend a Nov. 5 weekend (Nov. 21-23) with them to learn more about their way of living the tradition ofSt. Francis. 
For your reservation contact 
Friar Richard or Friar William St. Anthony Novitiate 1316 W. Dragon Trail Hayes-Healy Aud Mishawaka, IN 46544 (219) 255-2442 
7 p.m. 

54 Admonition 23 Obese 
56 Enter 25 "Neither a charges borrower against nor-be" 
59 " ... and a 27 Notnow bone, and 28 Winged -of hair" 29 Wealthy 
61 Adored one man 62 Cipher 31 Extraordl· 63 -show nary: Scot. 64 Otherwise 32 Energyor 65 Playthe plexus 
lead 33 Egg-shaped 66 Bergen's 34 Surround Mortimer 36 Sandhill 67 Witnessed 37 Crimes 39 Perpetra· 
DOWN tors 1 Disable 43 Look 2 Years: Lat. 45 Greek 3 Commotion letter 4 Kind of 46 Moved 
auto crime sinuously 5 "-lAm" 47 Pastry 6 Nautical maker 
term 49 Certain 7 Sleeping grain place machine 8 Othello's 50 Fundamen­"friend" tals 
9 Take­51 Chimney (refuse to output answer) 52 Soft drink 
10 Subway fare 53 Comparison 11 Drying word chamber 55 Unemployed 12 Criticizes 56 Wlnbya­
··~ 


The Observer Wednesday, November 5, 1980 -page 9 
[continued from page 1] 
dwelling is deemed unsafe, the landlord can be prevented from renting out the home. 
Hill disagrees with the notion that because the students are not permanent citizens, the city has no responsibility for their well­being. "We don't view the stu­dents as non-citizens. Police pro­tection is a subject of public safety, the safety ofeveryone. No matter who the victim is, if a crime is occurring, we'll do 
...Corrigan 
(continued from page 11) 
"Truthfully, Notre Dame is 
the only place I'd ever leave here 
for," says Corrigan. "I've been 
called several times, and I've 
actually been offered several 
jobs. I've never really thought 
about leaving here, because I've 
always felt that any move like 
that would be a lateral move. It 
would be hard to explain to' 
people here-people I care 
about. 
"No one looks on this as a 
lateral move. Notre Dame is dif­
ferent. The jobsare the same, but 
this is a step up." 
Tomorrow: Corrigan's Athll.'lic 
Philosop~y. 
Bazaar booth 
Anyone interested in having a booth at the Saint Mary's St. Nick's bazaar, on Dec. 1 
through  5,  contact  Vicki  
Pagnucci  a  284-4786  before  
Friday.  

Chess Club 
The Notre. Dame Chess Club will hold an organizational meeting for those interested playing on a chess team to­morrow at' 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Rathskellar. 
UCPH to meet 
Committee for the Physically Handicapped to Convene 
The University Committee for the Physically Handicapped will hold a meeting to­morrow for all interested students, staff, and faculty at 
3:30 p.m. in room 106 of the 
Center  for  Continuing  Edu­ 
cation.  
The  tentative  agenda  will  

include: identifying remaining barriers to ~;>hysical access· ibility on thts campus; re­cogmzing attitudianal problems within the university com­munity and among handi­capped people themselves; considering social and recre­ational needs; investigation of academic problems which might restrict a handicapped person's reasonable expect­ations for academic success at Notre Dame; and discussion of the question: What should Notre Dam's involvement be in the United Nations Year for Disabled Persons? 
• • • City 
something about it," Hill stated. 
Hill pointed out that while off­
campus crime is of primary con­
cern to the city, it is only half of 
the problem. "Many residents 
view the students as the number 
one problem," Hill stated. Con­
sequently, the city is equally 
concerned with the protection of 
its permanent residents. "We 
will be strict with ordinances 
because ·of a clear message from 
the neighborhoods. We won't 
see the liquor laws violated. We 
are going to do our best to pro­
tect students, and we're also 
going to do our best to protect 
their neighbors," Hill explained. 
Hill feels that the city can work 
on both situations simultaneous­
ly. "Dealing with both doesn't 
have to be at the expense of one 
problem or another. Its not a 
tradeoff," Hill explained. 
One way ofsolving both prob­
lems at the same time, according 
to Hill, is for students to get to 
know their neighbors. It is Hill's 
opinion that "students will find 
many neighbors who would be 
willing to keep an eye on their 
homes." Hill pointed out that 
students can meet their neigh­
bors, and discuss the local prob­
lems at the Northeast Neighbor­
hood Association, located at 80.1 
Notre Dame Avenue. 
In reterence to the policing ot­bars and large off-campus par­ties, Hill dispelled the student­held notion that Mayor Roger Parent has an axe to grind with Notre Dame students. Calling this conception "untrue", Hill declared that "We (the city) are just as committed to respond to students being victimized by crime as student problems in the neighborhood." , 

Hill also denied that the ab­sence of Mayor Parent at off­campus crime meetings denotes a lack ofconcern for the students on the p..rt of the Mayor. Hill explained that as City Attorney for South Bend, he has been designated as the mayor's rep­resentative at any meetings con­cerning this problem, and that he briefs Mayor Pafent on all details before and after each meeting. Calling the Mayor's attendance "symbolic," Hill pointed out that if the Mayor attended every gathering concerning a munici­pal problem, nothing would get done. 
Ifa student can 't have a keg on campus (he goes) off-campus. 
The causes of the crime prob­lem are numerous. Hill sugges­ted that one reason may be that more studen~ are going off­campus than ever before. Some of the blame for this, according to Hill, can be placed with the University administration. In reference to student social life, Hill said that there is a "drawing off of activity on campus. If stu­dents can't have a h.eg on cam­pus, they will go to an off-campus 
), 

--N 
I•
nDo·ll·yourself" 
Copya one·hour cassette Inlessthan 2 minutes. 
Make a Copy of your Favorite 
~~!!~'"'!.~~ ,?"ly ¢
Copying Service! Guaranteed perfect monaural copies, every time. 
What can you copy? 

The potential uses for cassette copies are endless. Here are just a few of the most common applications: lectures, seminars, language labs, meetings, college classes, sermons, sales messages, weddings, interviews, talking letters, family events, relaxatiQns, exercises, word-processing data, and computer programs. 
1 This coupon is redeemable for one (1) cassette copy of your original cassette for only 99(.. 1
-----------------------------------· 
I Any additional copies of your original cassette are at the prices below. Si~ply bri~g your I1 original cassette and this coupon with you. The copy cassette and the copymg serv1ce ore
I included in one price. • 
1 Your Original Regular Price Cassette Length P~r Copy
I 30 minute $2.19I 60 minute $2.89 90 minute $3.79
I 120 minute $4.79 
1 \~~·==·="""· 
party." 

Hill offered another reason for the upsurge in off-campus crime. "The word is out that they (the students) are easy touches," he said. · 
There are ways for students to prevent crimes from occurring. Hill stressed that more care can be taken on the part of the students. 
"Students need to be more careful where they are when they 
. are. I think there needs to be more sensitivity. Students have been assaulted where peopk shouldn't be walking. There is a 
, burden on the students to be careful and cautious," Hill ex­plained. He was quick to admit that there have also been inci­dents where the studentS' hav<.· not been at fault. The City Attorney urged all students to make sure that then are secure locks on all doors and windows, and he encourage<: attendance at crime preventiOI seminars and meetings. H ill.alsc said that his office is a open tc suggestions from students. · "Cooperation" is the word coming out of the City Attor· ney's office. Cooperation among students living off-campus, and cooperation with their neighbors in a battle against a formidable opponent: crime. The city has promised to do their part in this same battle, but along with this promise comes a warning. In the process of protecting students who are living off-campus, the city will also protect their nei~h­bors from crime, and if need be, from the students. 
Iran demands 
-

minister 
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP)-Iraq refusl'd to free Iran's oil minist<.•r yesterday and said Iran's com­plaint that his battlefield captun: violated international law sound­ed odd coming from a country that has held '52 Americans hos­tag<. for a year. 
The Iraqis said they held Iran's oil minister Mohammed JawaJ Baquir Tunguyan and five senior aides here and shunned an Iranian pledge to invoke ''all international codes and regula­tions" for hi~ release. 
"They were ambushed ant kidnapped ... and taken to !rat! territory," said a statement h1 Iran's Prime Minist<.·l Mohammad Ali Rajai. 
Iraqi officials pointed to tht· occupied U.S. Embassy in Tehran as an answer to Iran ian complaint$ about thl' illegality of the captLjre and noted that Tungayan i and his aides. are prisoners of war. 
Iraq said om· of its patrols captured Tunguyan, _:Hl, outside the besieged city of Ahadan on Friday. Abadan has been shelled daily since the war began Sep­temher 22. Th<.· Iraqis claim to surround the city. 
Both sides reported sharp fighting yesterday at Abadan, Iran's last stronghold on the Shatt al-Arab wate1way and the source of 60 percent of its refined oil before the 43-day-old war began. 


Available Exclusively at:
1 
please circle the copy cassette size and iniliol it ol lhe time of I purchase. Then anytime after the dote of this promotion, send Notre Dame Bookstore
I us your coupons for redemplion. We will replace each coupon The Hammes I with a fresh cassette and invoice you at seventy cents ($.70) 
I 
I each regardless of cassette size. Send to: 1401-B West River 283-6316 I Rood North, Mpls., MN 55411 
~----~~~-~~~------------------·----~ 
I 

High-Speed I Copying Time I 
1minute 1 2 minutes 
I 

3 minutes 4 minutes 
I 
I 


The Observer Wednesday, November 5, 1980 -page 10 

For the third time 
Carlton clinches Cy Young 
NEW YORK (AP)-Steve Carlton, the brilliant left-bander who led the Philadelphia Phillies to baseball's world champion­ship this year, was named winner of the National League Cy Young award for a record-tying third time Tuesday. 
Carlton was voted the honor' ing the majors with 286 strike­
by a Baseball Writers Associa­tion ofAmerica panel and joined Tom Seaver and Sandy Koufax as the only three-time winners of the coveted award which goes to the league's best pitcher. 
Carlton polled 118 points, with 23 of24 first-place votes and one second-place vote. Jerry Reuss of the Los Angeles Dodgers got the other first-place vote and wound up second with 55 points.
Jm Bibby of the Pittsburgh Pir.'tes was third with 28, fol JWed by Joe Niekro of the 
Houston Astros with 11 and Tug. won this award in 1980 in the McGraw of Philadelphia, Steve National League," Green said of the 35-year-old pitcher. "I can't 
Uhe l'PinJjammer 
HAIR Sl YLING FOR DISCRIMINATING ME:N & WOMEN 
-South Bend, Indiana 46628 
HAIIDESICIS FOR Til 

"=SEXES !F 
232-6622 

, 

Rogers of the Montreal Expos, Joe Sambito of Houston and Mario Soto of the Cincinnati Reds with one point apiece. 
The overpowering Phillie southpaw posted a record of24-9 with a 2.34 earned run average during the regular season, lead-
outs. He was the winning pitcher in the opening_ game of the National League Championship Series against Houston and also won the second and sixth games of the World Series ·against Kansas City. 
Carlton, who previously won the award in 1972 and 1977, was the Phillies' stopper, a man Manager Dallas Green always could depend on for a solid performance formance when his team needed it most. 
"Basically, there wasn't any­body but 'Lefty' who could have 
say enough about what Carlton 
did. His dedication and hard 
work enabled him to maintain 
his quality ofpitching, especially 
at his age." 
Green said with the exception 
of one game early in the season, 
which Carlton lost 6-1 to 
Montreal, the Phillies had a 
chance to win every other game 
the big left-bander pitched. 
"His first, last and middle 
name was consistency," the 
manager said. "Consider that he 
won 15 or 16 times after we had 
lost a game. There is no stopper 
better than that. We never had to 
suffer through a losing streak. 
That's a most valuable pitcher. 
There is no question about that." 
Carlton, a fiercely private 
person, has refused to talk to the 
press for the past several seasons. 
In the madness of the Phillies' 
victorious dressing room follow­
ing the clinching victory in the 
World Series, he held his own 
solitary celebration in the train­
er's room, where he often seeks 
sanctuary from interviewers. 
Carlton was not even available · to be notified that he had won the award. 
He had been expected to go to 
Japan this week to conduct some 
baseball clinics with teammates _ 
Mike Schmidt and Pete Rose, but 
the trip was canceled and the 
pitcher went hunting instead. 
His wife said she did not know 
where he was when the award was 
announced and added he was 
expected to be away for about a 
week. 

Philadelphia Phillie southpaw Steve Carlton was voted the Cy Young Awardyesterday by a panel ofbaseball writers. The award was Carlton's third, a record he now shares with Tom Seaver and Sandy Koufax. 
...Items 

[continued from page 12] 
PRETTY OFFENSIVE-Notre Dame's rushing offense is as 
potentas its defense is stingy. TheIrish have rushed for over 300 
yards in five straight games, averaging 346.0 yards during that 
period. The season average of 286.0 yards ranks 9th among 
Division lA schools, while their 382.0 yards oftotal offense rate 
29th. (Interestingly, Notre Dame's passing offense is a sorry 
122nd out of139 teams-but when your running game is that 
successful, why bother to pass? Of all plays this season, 77.7 
percent have been running plays accounting for 74.9 percent of 
Notre Dame's total yards. ­
Notre Dame's 2,002 yard rushing total for the campaign is 
only 23 yards short of the 1979 season sum. Stone, Carter and 
Ferguson have pooled their talents so that an Irish back has 
rushed for 100 yards in nine straight game~. 
THE STUMBLING RECKS-Notre Dame faces Georgia Tech for the 29th time this Saturday, and the Irish hold a convincing 24-4-0 edge in the all-time series, which started in 1922 and has run continuously since 1974. The Irish enjoyed a 21-13 win in Notre Dame Stadium last season, and posted a 38­21 decision at Tech's Grant Field in 1978, a game which was almost stopped prematurely when overzealous Georgia Tech rooters (probably upset over Notre Dame's 69-14 win the previous year) hurled dead fish and empty bottles at Devine's charges (after all, it's only a game). 
TAKE A PEAK-The Irish men's and women's basketball 
teams will be previewed next Sunday, November 16, in the 
annual charity intrasquad game. Tickets for the affair, which 
will tipoff with the women at 7 p.m. followed by the men's 
contest at 8:15, are $1 for adults and $.50 for children under 16 
years of age and Notre Dame or St. Mary's students with 
identification. 

All proceeds will benefit the Special Olympics and the 
Neighborhood Study Help Program. Team photos will be 
handed out at the door, courtesy of the Marathon Oil 
Company, and the Irish players will be available for autographs 
(especially for impressionable freshmen) following the game. 
r----------------,
1 · . ND-SMC -I 
I JUNIORS! I 
I I 
I Anyone interested in co-chairing next II year's Senior Trip should pick up an I 1 application from any class officer or at 1 1 Student Activities Office. Applications I I are due back by noon Sunday, Nov. 9. I 
I I
L----------------J 

~~()1"tSc1J==,..=~=·=e~!/S=S========*================W==e=dn=e=sd=a=y,=N=o=v=em==be=r=5=,=19=S=o~=p=a=ge=t~l 
by The Ohserr•t•r and The AJJoaaled Prn.r 
Sadaharu 0 h, the Japanese slugger who belted more home runs than anyone else who ever swung a professional baseball bat, announced yesterday that he was retiring after 22 seasons. The Yomiuri Giants star bows out of the game with 868 home runs, a record that has earned him comparisons with Hank Aaron, the all-time home run champion ofthe American major leagues with 755. Oh wasJapan's highest paid athlete in any sport, earning some $850,000 last year. The40-year-old Oh said at a news conference he had decided to quit because "both spiritually and physically, I have hit a wall." The Giants said Oh would continue with the organization as a coach. -AP 
Army ticket refunds for Notre Dame or 
St. Mary's students who ordered an individual game ticket for the October 18 game and did not pick up that ticket are available in the form of cash refunds during the hours of 9-5 
p.m. Monday through Friday at the Gate 10 Box Office Window. Students may pick up their refund during the month of November. The last day refunds will be issued will be Wednesday, November 26 (the day before Thanksgiving break). Presentation of your student ID cards is required to obtain the cash refund. 
The interhall six-mile run wm be held on Saturday, November 15, at 10 a.m. The course will be entirely on the Notre Dame campus utilizing the golf course, lake trails and campus roads. Notre Dame undergraduates, graduates, faculty and staff may enter. Separate divisions for men and women in each category (undergraduate, graduate and faculty/staff) will beset up. Ifyou wish to run, you must come to the inter hall office (C-2) in the ACC, to complete the insurance and entry forms before Wednesday, November 12. 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary'S ski team will hold a racing form clinic tomorrow evening at 7:30 in the south alcove of LaFortune. A brief film will be shown, fol­lowed by a short lecture on competitive racing style. Also, are­minder that dry land training has begun. Workouts have started n Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Sundays behind the ACC. Weekday training is at 4:30P.M. For further information, con­tact Mike Case at 288-0416 
The Irish men's B-Ball squad will be sporting a new look on the court this year. Gone are the pastel green home uniforms oflast season, replaced by cream-colored (technically jute) tops and shorts with Irish written across the front in the same pattern as last year 
NOTICEO  
COLLEGOE BOWL MEETING FOR ALL INTERESTED PARTIES 7:00 PM. ~DNESDAY. O"SHAG 106 Experienced lyplll will do lyplng In her home. Convenient to NO. Recently completed typing ol dl-rtatlon. References available. 272·7623. RIDE OFFERED Going East to Erie, Pa. Leave 11-7 ot2 p.m. Return 11-10 In a.m. Coli x6436 belw &-5. Ask lor Debbie F.  
LOST/FOUNDI  

LOST: Tl·58 calculator Before break If found PlEASE Coli I 1876 FOUND: ONE SMALL GORAY PUPPY NEAll WORlUNE. CALL 1500 llfTWEEN 9AND 10 P.M. LOST: High School Ring; Probably In Galvin or ACC on Wednesday;Oct. 29. lllound pleasecoli Rich ol3646. FOUND: A block umbrella with o wooden handle, len on Ihe  

Corrigan: flattered, but practical 
EDITOR'S NOTE: This is the second article in a three-part series introducing the Notre Dame com­munity to the University's new athletic director, Eugene Corrigan, who will replace retiring ·Edward "Moose" Krause onJanuary 5, 1981. Corrigan will be finishing his term in the same post at the University of Virginia on December 31. Associate Sports &litor Michael Ortman recently spent a Jay with Corrigan on the Charlottesville, Va., campus. 
Today: The Hiring. 
By Michael Ortmtm Associate Sports Editor 

CHARLOTTESVU.LE, Va. ­You would think that the fob of replacing the retiring Edward "Moose" Krause would be a long drawn out, highly selective search for "The Perfect Man." Maybe it was. But you could always be quite sure that Moose was not going to formally an­nounce his retirement until a successor had been chosen. 
"I've been thinking about this 
(retiring) for over three years 
now," Krause said during an 
October 10 press conference. 
"There's nothing unusual about 
the timing." 
Actually, there may have been something "unusual about the timing," but then it didn't really make any difference. A number of press leaks, especially in the Charlottesville area, made it quite clear that Gene Corrigan had visited Notre Dame­twice, in fact-and that his departure from U.Va. might be near. 
The story of Corrigan's move 
to South Bend began in late-July when he received a phone call from Fr. Edmund P. Joyce, chairman of the University's Faculty Board in Control ofAth­letics. It was the night before Joyce was to leave the country for 
a month to visit his brother. 
"Father asked me if I would come out and visit in September for the Purdue game," Corrigan recalls. "It happened that Virginia did not have a game that day (Sept. 6)." 
Corrigan agreed to visit, and 
then he did not hear from Joyce 
again until the day before he left 
Charlottesville for the trip, when 
he called Joyce just to touch 
base. 

"I was facsinated and flattered 
that he woul<;l call me-very 
flattered. But you see, I didn't 
know anybody at Notre Dame 
very well. I knew Roger 
(Valdiserri, Sports Information 
Director and Asst. Athletic 
Director) pretty well, but he 
didn't know what was going on. I 
knew Father, but not well. I had 
never spent five minutes talking 
to him." 

All ofthat would soon change. 
"I had been to Notre Dame one time before," Corrigan re­members of his 1970 summer vacation. "We took all the kids (seven of them-two girls and five boys) in one of those Winnebago-type things, and we went to Seattle. We stopped at Notre Dame on the way back. The boys wanted to see the place. We kind of took our own tour." 
Corrigan had a guided tour during his second visit, you can be sure. "Father Joyce and I spent about four hours together that Saturday morning... talking. And then we went another couple of hours on Sunday. When I left, I told him I wanted to go home and think about the whole thing." 
Yet Corrigan would admit la­ter, "I'd been thinking about the thing, Lord knows, since the first time he called me. I'd been play­acting a little bit in my mind." 
So it was back to Charlottes­ville to talk things over with his friends, children and wife Lena. "I had to stop being flattered and start being practical," Corrigan said. "There were some things that I wasn't too sure of." 
About 10 days later, Corrigan wrote toJoyce. "I told him that I was interested but there were things we needed to talk about­
operational things. It wasn't money or anything like that. It was just details of the job." 
There was considerable specu­lation after the formal an­nouncement that Corrigan was negotiating for power, or as he prefers to call it, responsibility. At present, Joyce makes almost all of the important athletic de­cisions for the University. The Washington Star reported that a source who has known Corrigan for 10 years said, "I don't see any way Gene would go out there without being assured tht he would be in charge." 
During the last week of Sep­tember, Joyce invited Corrigan to bring his wife with him for another visit. "I wanted her to get out there and see every­thing," Corrigan said. "When you've been married to some­body for a:most 28 years, you don't just pick up and order them out of town." 
Corrigan and his wife returned to Virginia on a Wednesday, just two days before Krause was to make his announcement. "I told Father when I left that I would call him over the weekend­
Monday at the latest-and if he still felt good about it, and I still felt good about it, then we'd get together." 
"On the way back ... ," Corrigan says, "my wife cried. She said, 'I know the decision you're going to make."' 
So did Gene Corrigan, and probably even Father Joyce._ "When we got back here Wednesday, it was out. People around town were talking about it. I started getting calls from press people, and I told them that I didn't have any comment on it at all-which is a horrible way to have to do it." · 
But there were people Corrigan wanted to tell his deci­sion to before they read it in the paper. "I called Father on Sunday (Oct. 12). We told our kids that we were definitely going to go. I wanted to tell Mr. Hereford (President of the University of Virginia), and I was in his office when he came in Monday mor­ning." 
Joyce made a formal statement on Tuesday morning, and every­thing was official. 
(continued on page 9) 


Vs. Bowling Green 
Irish leers -wrin on road 

...... 
by Brian Beglane Hockey Editor 
BOWLING GREEN, OH­
Notre Dame's uniforms-road blue-were the same as last Tuesday when the Irish hosted Bowing Green at the ACC. But the team was different, and so was the final score. 
Junior Bill Rothstein's un­assisted goal at 11:11 of the third period gave Notre Dame a 3-2 non-conference victory over the Falcons here at the BGSU Ice Arena. The win evened Notre Dame's record at 3-3 heading into this weekend's crucial series at Minnesota, the No. 1 team in the Western Collegiate Hockey As,.ociation. 
Bowling· Green, a member of the Central Collegiate Hockey League, fell to 3-2. 
Notre Dame led 2-0 after two periods on the strength of two goals by freshman Adam Parsons. But the Falcons came back to tie the game in the third stanza. 
Bowliflg Green's Pete Sikorski, with Notre Dame de­fenseman Jeff Brownschidle in the penalty box for holding, beat Irish goalie Dave Laurion on a 20-foot slapshot at 4:34 of the final period to close the gap to 2­
1. Just three seconds remained on the Brownschidle infraction. 
Way~e Wilson evened the score at6:58 with aslapshotfrom 
.---­
-------------~ ~ --~-­
the left point. The puck changed direction on Laurion and flew in over his glove hand. 
But hard work in the Falcon zone by Rothstein andJeffPerry led to the winning goal. Perry tied up defenseman Ron Megan behind Bowling Green goalie Wally Charko and Rothstein came away with the puck. His first wrap-around attempt was stopped by Charko, but Rothstein stuck with the re-
The Irish defeated Bowling Green 3-2. 
bound and scored at 11:11 for a 3-2 lead. 
Laurion, stopping 12 shots in the final period, finished with 23 saves. Charko totalled 35 stops for Bowling Green. 
The Irish, exhibiting a deliber­ate passing game and forecheck­ing effectively, dominated play for the first two periods. Notre Dame outshot Bowling Green 29-11 in the first two periods an.d only some outstanding play from Falcon goalie Wally Charko held the score to 2-0. 
Notre Dame received two power plays in the first period and kept Charko busy from in 
front of the crease. 
With eight minutes to go, Irish 
defenseman Scott Cameron 
caught a puck in the ribs and was 
taken to the hospital. His status 
is now doubtful for the Minne­
sota series. 
Charko made 18 saves while 
holding the Irish scoreless in the 
first period. Notre Dame goalie 
Dave Laurion was called on for 
just 5 saves in the opening stanza. 
Parsons gave the Irish a 1-0 lead at 3:24 of the second period when he backhanded a rebound past Charko from the right face­off circle. Don Lucia and Kirt Bjork were credited with assists on the play. · 
Two minutes later, Laurion received his first test ofthe game when he stopped Falcon Tim Hack on a two-on-one. Laurion smothered he puck after Hack shot from just two feet in front. 
Parsons got his second goal of the game at 11:56 when he picked out the upper right cor­ner, again on a rebound. Irish defenseman Jim Brown had ta­ken the initial shot from the left point and Parsons skated across the slot to beat Charko. Brown and centerman Bjork both re­ceived assists. 
Charko made nine saves in the second stanza while Laurion, receiving excellent support out in front, made just six saves. 

Wednesday, November 5, 1980 -page 12 
by Bill 

I rish/
tetns ·Marquard 
NUMERO UNO-The last time Notre Dame was ranked number one in the national polls was at the end of the 1977 season when the Irish won the NationalChampionship. Prior to that time, the Irish were rated number one by UPI at the beginning of the same season. It took a 24-23 Sugar Bowl win over Alabama (I've heard of them!) to clinch the number one ranking in 1973, so the last instance where Notre Dame was rated first nationally in both wire services prior to a bowl game was in 1966, when after a famous 10-10 tie atMichigan State the Irish dissected USC 51-0 to grab national honors. 
THAT'S SHOW BIZ-It's official As reported here last week, both the Alabama and Southern Cal football games will be telecast nationally by ABC Sports. Air time is slated for 3:45 
p.m. for both games with kickoff set for 3:50. 
STONED BLUE (AND GOLD)-Irish halfback Jim Stone became the first back in Irish history to gain over 100 yards in four straight games with his 211-yard effort against Navy. In fact, Stone cracked the century barrier somewhere around the Navy 25-yard line during his 73-yard jaunt in the first quarter, the longest collegiate run ever in Giants Stadium. 
Stone is also only the second back in Irish annals to eclipse the 200-yard mark in two games during his career. The senior Stone totaled 224 yards in his first start ofthe year against Miami, and he equaled Vagas Ferguson's mark with his second 200-yard effort on Saturday. 
Stone has surfaced in national rushing rankings, his 105.0 yards-per-game average placing 20th on the NCAA charts. That is quite an accomplishment when one considers that Stone gained only 73 yards in the first three games of the season behind Phil Carter. Stone has since averaged 165.5 yards-per­game, a mark which would lead the NCAA ifprojected over the first seven games. 
Stone also rates 17th in the country in all-purpose running with a 140 yards-per-game mean. All-purpose running includes yards gainec! by rushing, pass receiving and all kick runbacks 
TOE-TAL SCORING-Placekicker-Harry Oliver contin­ued his merciless assault on the Irish record books over the weekend. His two field goals upped his total to a single season team record 15, and his 50-yarder against Navy matched Dave Reeve's feet (sic) of kicking two three-pointers of 50 yards or more in a career. Oliver, however, is the first player in Irish history to boot the ball over half the length of the field tw.ice in one season. 
Despite his effort, Oliver dipped to third place in national 
field goal ratings with a 2.14 field goals-per-game average. His 
8.6 point scoring pace is good for an 11th place tie among all scorers in the NCAA. 
With 60 points on the season, Oliver is only 15 tallies short of Reeve's single season record of75 points for a placekicker, set in 1977. 
I DARE YOU TO CROSS THIS LINE-Notre Dame's 
miserly defense has surrendered only two field goals in the last 
three games and has not allowed a touchdown since the fourth 
quarter of the Miami game. The Irish ground defense has not 
allowed a touchdown in 16 quarters, dating back to the final 
stanza of the Michigan State game. 
In fact, Notre Dame's defense has yielded a total of221 yards rushing and465 yards total offense in the last three games (73. 7 yards rushing-per game and 2.0 yards-per-carry). The rushing defense, which has given up an average of only 97.1 yards all year, is rated 5th in the country, while overall the defense rates 8th as Irish foes have managed only 234.9 yards oftotal offense per contest. 
To put the Navy game in perspective, the Middies had negative rushing yardage until the waning moments ofthe third quarter after having gained four yards in total offense during the entire first half. The Midshipmen finished with 130 total yards, the lowest opponent total this season, although 59 of those yards came during Navy's final drive when most of the Irish reserves were playing. 
Maybe the Navy just doesn't do that well on land. 
[continued on page 10] 







