
... Irish vs. Trojans -pages 9-12 

VOLXV N0.68 an indr-pendent student newspa~r serving notre dame and saint mary's FRIDAY•. DECEMBER'· 1980 
................. ........................ 

Hesburgh suggests new immigration law 

By Louis Breaux 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh, who heads the national Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy, recently said in a report to Congress report that immigration laws need to be tightened. 
Recently, the Commission submitted its second semi-annual report to Congress, and in it, Fr. Hesburgh expressed his and the Commission's views on immigra­tion policy in the letter of trans­mission. The report also gave some of the conclusions of the Commission's findings. 
Fr. Hesburgh said in the letter, "In recent months we have received a large number ofletters 'from people who complain that immigration is out of control' ... by permitting our laws to be flouted, we bring immigration policy as a whole into disrespect and, ... undermine the respect for law, the foundation of a free society." 
It has been estimated that at least two-and-one-half times the legally allowed number of immigrants (300,000) will enter the country this year alone because of special exceptions built into the law. 
Also, the immigrations laws are inequitable. There are certain areas where almost nobody comes from; and ot\ler areas where large numbers are allowed in from every year. 
"Immigration laws are second only to tax laws in complexity," Fr. Hesburgh said. Most of the blame for U.S.'s inability to cope 
• with illegal immigration is levelled on the current immigration policy. There are an estimated 500,000 illegal aliens crossing into the U.S. annually in addition to the legally accepted immigrants. Although the Commission agrees that immigration policy needs change, they do not consider completely stopping legal immigration. In his letter Fr. Hesburgh stated, "The world and the U.S. will be a much poorer place is legal immigration is cut back because we failed to gain control over illegal migration." Fr. Hesburgh also stated, "Our immigration policy must be responsible ... We must respond as a nation, with a vision of freedom and progress, to a 'portion' of the world's striving, aspiring, and oppressed peoples." "We must also be responsible to our own people, expecially our poor and those who have suffered the sting of oppression in this country. We must be consistent in what we say and do in matters concerning immigra­tion and refugees." 
Fr. Hesburgh believes that legal migration is an integral, inherited aspect of the US. He said," .. .legal immigrants make a strong contribution to the economic and cultural well-being of the U.S. They bring renewed commitment not just to hard work, savings and investments, 
but to those of values offreedom, equality, and family shared by many Americans." 
Nevertheless, Fr. Hesburgh does not believe that there will ever be a return to the nearly unlimited migration of earlier times. He said, "we will continue to be a nation which welcomes immigrants. But we cannot be the single refuge for all of the people who flee persecution or seek opportunity." 
The Commission has made substantial progress in answering some of the questions before it. 
In regards to the illegal aliens already in the country, the Commissionn recommends a program to legalize them. In 
(continued on page 15) 

To FBI 
Civiletti issues guidelines 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The JusticeDepartmentissuedguide­lines yesterday for FBI investiga­tions which would in some cases allow informants to participate in crimes and would widen the bureau's authority to follow and photograph certain Americans. 
The guidelines were issued by Attorney General Benjamin Civiletti, who told a news con­ference at FBI headquarters that they pull together policies and practices which previously had been scattered in various government manuals and policy statements but had never been presented in such detail in one place. 
The guidelines say that an FBI informant in a criminal case shall be warned that his work for the FBI will not protect him from prosecution for federal, state or local crimes except under speci­fied circumstances. 
Friday 

Assistant Attorney General Philip B. Heymann, head of the criminal division, said that under the guidelines "there is a direct and complete prohibition on violence by informants, on an informant instigating a crime and on the types ofactivities that are forbidden to law enforcement by the Constitution or laws." 
According to the guidelines, the federal government will not immediately stop an informant from joining in criminal conduct where that "is,necessary to obtain information or evidence for paramount prosecutive pur­poses, to establish and maintain credibility or cover with persons associated with criminal activity under investigation, or to prevent or avoid the danger of death or serious bodily injury" and where these needs outweigh the seriousness ofthe crime involved. 
As an example, Heymann said if the government found an informant was going to be asked to help steal a car to go to a location where he would be given instructions on how to kill a government witness, "we've got to let him steal the car and not tell the informant to stay home and let the government witness take his chances." 
FBI director William H. Webster gave another example after the news conference from the case ofGaryThomas Rowe, a FBI informant inside the Ku Klux Klan in the South during the 1960s. Rowe currently faces charges in Alabama that he was involved in the 1965 slaying of Viola Liuzza, a civil rights 
. demonstrator from Detroit. 
Webster said, "We would not have allowed Rowe to fire at Liuzzo, but we might have allowed him to fire in the air." 
Civiletti said that ifthe FBI had an informant whose help was necessary to prosecute five murderers but who had also defrauded someone of $10,000, the bureau would not have to 
· immediately cease using the in­
. formant and turn him over to the · police for the fraud The new guidelines cover the FBrs use of informants and 
confidential sources and its launching of criminal investiga­tions ofindividuals and organiza­tions. Webster said they are consistent with a proposed FBI charter still awaiting congres­sional action but tht they are more detailed than the charter and will remain in effect even if the charter is not passed. He said additional guidelines to cover undercover operations are still being prepared. 
Grasso quits ; cites poor health 
HARTFORD* Conn. (AP)-­
Gov. Ella Grasso, declaring 
that her battle with cancer had 
robbed her of the stamin:, 
needed for the job, yesterday 
announced ''with a heavy 
heart'' that she was resigning 
at the end of the year. 
Mrs. Grasso, first electea to 
the state chief executive post in 
1974, was the nation's first 
woman to be elected governor 
without having had her hus­
band precede her in office. 
The 61-year-old Democrat was released from Hartford Hospit­al earlier this week after comp-· leting the frrst phase of chemo­therapy for liver cancer. 
Mrs. Grasso met with her successor, Lt. Gov. William O'Neill, and other state leaders before releasing her announce­ment to reponers. 
"It tok a lot of courage and guts to do what she did,'' said State Democratic Chairman ] ames FitzgPrald. 
The only other current female governor is Dixy Lee Ray of 
Washington. Since she was defea~ed in recent elections, there will be no women govern­ors in office after ] anuary. 
Mrs. Grasso, the daughrer of Italian immigrants, entered statewide politics in 1958 when she ran for secretary of state, a post she held until 1970. Known as a social and fiscal conservative, she often has been at odds with feninists on such issues as funding abort­ions for poor women. 
In a one-sentence letter to Secretary of the State Barbara 
B. Kennelly, Mrs. Grasso, who never lost an election in a political career spanning ~~ 
(continued on page 4) 
AtSMC Convicts discussprison life 
By Cathy Domanico 
In order to bring an"offbeat" reality to what he called a "sheltered" Saint Mary's College, Michael McKee, Chairman of Sociology, Anthropology, and Social Work at Saint Mary's moderated an informal question and answer period last night, with prisoners currently serving time for various crimes. 
The four prisoners, one of which was a former ND graduate and ND Law School graduate, had volunteered their time to speak to the group. They came as educators, emphasizing what itwas like to be the person "on the other side". 
The prisoners who had earned enough merits to be included in the Indiana State Work Release Progam also discussed prison conditions and rehabilitation. 
All four ofthe men appeared to have very negative feelings toward the prison system. Although they all agreed that they deserved to be punished for their crimes, the prisonors thought that prison and the entire system "stinks". It is a bitter place that degrades the human being; in prison, nobody seems to care, they said. 
As one man stated, "You make what you want out ofprison Ifyou associate with bitter, negative people, you become bitter and negative.'' According to this prisoner, you can "swing either way''. This particular man made the best out of the situation and went to school earning an assocciates degree in electronics. 
Another prisoner was not as fortunate. He also tried to get an education butwas denied several times. He believes thesystem is very. 
(clJittiltlled 011 page 3) 

NewsBrieb 
Friday, December 5, 1980-page 2 
====~~========*===~~================================ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
To bolster its lagging sales, chrysler corp., 
announced an unusual plan to gtve buyers of most 1981 
Chryslers a rebate equal to the difference between the 
prevailing prime interest rate and 12.5 percent With the prime 
rate at most banks now at 18.5 percent, buyers would get back 
six percent of the sticker price of their cars. The rebate is 
scheduled to last until Jan. 30. The plandoes not apply to buyers 
of the new Chrysler imperial. As previously reported, a $250 
rebate to stockholders, employees and supplier employees still 
applies until Dec. 31. The prime rate is the interest rate charged 
by large banks to their best business customers for short-term 
loans. It is not applied to consumer loans. Many analysts blame 
recent sharp increases in the prime rate for the November 
slump in car sales from an already depressed market. Sales of 
domestic automakers in the final ten days ofNovember ran at a 
seasonally adjusted annual rate of only 5.6 million. In the 
previous three months, the sales rates had ranged between 6.6 
million and 6.9 million. -AP 
Killin!! a cat or a dog with the intention of 
eating it would be illegal in Califorma under a bill recently introduced in the state's legislature. State Sen. Marz Garcia, R­Menlo Park, said he introduced the measure btcauseofa recent incident in San Francisco where dogs were trapped by Southeast A..sia refugees who consider dogs delicacies. Although it is a misdemeanor to kill a dog or cat with the intent ofselling or giving away the pelt, the new bill also would make it illegal to kill a dog or cat with the intent of eating it. The penalty would be up to six months in jail and a $500 fine. -AP 
Rep. John Brademas said uno" to an offer that would' have placed his name in nomination for the chairmanship ofthe Democratic National Committee. The 3rd District Democrat, defeated in his re-election bid by Republican neophyte John Hiler, has been mentioned as a possible replacement for the current chairman, John White. Brademas said he took his at out of the ring mostly because of the extensive travel involved in the chairmanship. His wife, Mary Ellen, is completing her medical residency requirements in the Washington area, and Brademas said the couple would prefer to remain in that area until her studies are completed. Many of those urging Brademas to become chairman have extremely high and perhaps unrealistic expectations about what a chairman can do immediately to strengthen the party, the Congressman said. "They likely would expect more of me than I would be able to produce with the tools at hand," Brademas said, adding that he felt confident to do a good job. Brademas also said he lacks the personal wealth to allow him to devote full time and his own resources to the chairmanship. ­
AP 
A flre raced through part of the Stouffer's Inn of Westdiester, New York, and County Executive Alfred DelBello said at least 26 people were killed and up to 40 were injured. "As soon as it went, it went like crazy," Eric Ewoldt, general manager of the hotel in this suburb about 20 miles north of mid-Manhattan, commented. DelBello said officials told him "It might have been an electrical fire." John Castle, a ~estchester policeman, p.id... ~·Everything worked, the sprinklers and everything, but it just went boom." It was not known immediately whether the victims died of smoke inhalation or burns. The fire came 13 days after a blaze at the MGM grand Hotel-Casino in Las Vegas, Nev., killed 84 people, injured more than 700 and caused millions ofdollars worth of damage. In that fire, the alarm system faHed to work properly and the casino, where the fire spread rapidly, was not equipped with sprinklers. Police said the Westchester fire erupted at about 10:20 a.m. in a three-story brick building housing a ballroom, offices and meeting rooms and was controlled less than 40 minutes later without spreading t to guest rooms. AP 
Soviet assistance in Poland? This possibility was raised by a member of the Polish Central Committee yesterday, reflecting a rise of tension in a country that is bordering on the brink of economic destruction. Polish could request Soviet assistance in the Polish crisis.JosefKlasa, head of the Central Committee department for relations with the media, said at a news conference that the Polish leadership would ask for Soviet assistance if authority "slipped into the hands of anti-socialist elements." He said a call for assistance would be madeonly if"socialism became endangered." "I think ~uch endangering would occur only when authority would slip from the hands of democracy into the hands of anti-socialist elements," said Klasa. "Then the Polish communists would have the right and duty to ask for assistance from the Soviet Union and other countries." -AP 
Mostlv cloudy today andtonightwithachance ofshowers. Righs today in the low to mid40s. Lows tonight in the upper 30s to low 40s. Partly sunny and warm Saturday with highs in the low to mid 50s. -AP 
Inside Friday 
Y es,Notre Dame. • • 
Ever since someone told me Santa Claus does not exist I have been fighting the notion. This three-year battle I have fought on many fronts: butting into department-store conversations of parents and children, quoting the Yes Virginia letter from the Chicago Sun Times on street corners, and tracing the potential for genetic connection between Santa's helpers and anyone I meet under 5' 1". 
I have explained away innumerable times the so called "multiple Santa theory," used to discredit the old man everytime he shows up at two malls simultaneously {those are elfs: use your head. Santa can't be everywhere at once). I have proven the plausibility offlying reindeer (the "jet" stream theory); I ha~e studied the gentleman's historical antecedents (his relationship to the less sophisti­cated St. Nicholas), and I have generally satisfied myself concerning the execution of his many duties over the course of one short night (he's an exce3lent organizer). I still consider "Miracle on 34th Street" one of the west's greatest film achievements, with a message as relevant today as it was to the non­believers in 1934. 
Clearly, he exists. Yet I sometimes won­der if his typical Christmas route could not be adjusted to accommodate a few people, or groups of people, who have evidently never been visited by his friendly, peac~ loving mission. Had they been touch­ed by his kindness in years gone by, they might today hold dif­ferent attitudes toward their jobs and worlds. In this spirit then I offer the following gift ideas for Santa Claus to con­sider giving the follow­ing deprived. 
The Salvadorian government: a copy of "Whatever Happened to Peace, Love and Understanding." 
The Syrian government: a more benign way of taking out their run designs, and a vocabulary that does away with the phrase "cut offthe heads ofthe imperialist conspirators." 
Mao's widow: the chutzpah to request the mercy of the court on account of her being a widow. 
60's radical Bernadine Dohrn: a lawyer capable of simultaneously defending her and negotiating the obligatory Doubleday contract. 
Abscam "victims": a world without lucrativ~ 
looking middle easterners. 
Financier Robert Vesco: a world without news­
papers. 
The Russian Politburo: improved self-confidence 

r-The_Obs.erY-er_ 
De.rig11 Edtfor.... Margaret Ann Kruse: De.rig11 A.r.<i<ltml.r . ......... !\.Iatt Dolan ll.lary Dumm Stephen O"Bric:n Dtil•INiKijt 7i•di!Jicit~ns .............. . Bruce: Oaklc:v 
Ncll".r Editor ............ Pam Degnan Cof>l' Edilor ...... Mary Fmn Callah,lll :-,port.r Copr Edtlr;rs. ..... Ga rv G ras~e.y Michael Ortman Brun: Oakle\· Tvpists ...... ............ ll.like ll.lonk DnJ• Editor .... .. Rvan Ver Rerkmoe' Ad Dt'J'K" , , , , ....... David E. \X'ood S11pplemo11 f..Nl''"" ... M ichal'l Ortman Gan· Grasse\' Pix;togmpil!'l' .......... Tim :\lcKeo)!h 
Th1 Obstrvtr (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Th• Obllrvtr Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing Tilt Obltrvtr, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
Tilt Obltrvtr Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved. 
Mark Rust 
Managing Editor 

and image: we suggest a Werner Erhardt seminar. The Iranian Parliament: the ability to grasp high school level economics. Prime interest rate bankers: a Freudian solution to 
their anal compulsive tendencies. The Right Wing: the Christmas turkey's left wing. The Left Wing.· the turkey's right wing. Turkry:the ability to wing it with a military 
government Norman Mailer: relieffrom his perverse attraction to making money off dead people. Truman Capote: relief from his perverse attrac­tions in general. Afghanistan's Babrak Karmal· someone who likes him besides Brezhnev. Menachem Begin: a smile, like the old days. 
Anwar Sadat: a happy chanuka card from Begin. 
Barry Commo;ter: 
patience. Four years is not all that long. 
Jimmy Carter: onefi'nal clarification ofpriorities. 
HamiltonJordan: a post in academia where the drugs are good and the women hiiXOflt. 
Urban cowboy fashion 
fanatics: a home on the range, far away from our cities. 
Ayatolla Kohmeim:-his eternal reward, as quickly as possible. 
The American elec-torate: 
what they deserve. 
It is tough being a journalist at Christmas time. In the same way that an executive remembers business associates at this time ofyear, so must we remember those people who have given us so much to write about. And as sure as there is a Santa Claus, the above gifts, recommended in the spirit ofpeace on earth, will help warm even the scrooge­like consciousness out of the coldest front page hardliners. 
But it is time to stop this admittedly cynical diatribe. Even though I know God won't rest me merry for at least two more weeks, I feel compelled 
. at this point to at least practice the goodwill toward men tradition. And toward that end I shall relinquish my position on this page of the Friday edition, and remain blessedly silerit At least until next semester. 
' 

--------~-­
..~ 
The Observer Friday, December 5, 1980-page 3 
Cl1ME ftpaihim. 
dr:•'*'~ 1 r~~ ~"'~ u~.f;(_& 611. 
CANCO extends deadline 
• . ...-"·~-,~~>''("' . ~. rnt..~tc to.n ttYlfl Q.~ ~;:{ t {eUf~ f -.~\Aft I(.\t· I! ~~C. thf't\ _.,.,.,... 
.. ·.·...··.. -.:L Y\R~~\-\~ 
: ( 3'"''"''' 4.~~c,) , 
-t 
FOR sALE 
(_ALL /OJQ•~.ii:. 
Some students will go to any lengths to protect their valuables. Evidently 
the owner ofthese "watch/ish" liked all tenfingers on his hands. )photo by 
Tim McKeogh) 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
11/12/80
Main Building 
JOB IliTERVIEWS All£ OPEN TO SENICRS 1\ND GRADUATE STUDENTS IH THE DECEMBER, MAY AllD 
AUGUST CLASSES • AHY WHI) INTDlD TO HAVE lliTERVIEIIS Hl/ST HAVE A COMPLETED 
PROFILE (REGISTRATION) FORM ON FILE liT THE PLACEHE~i BUREAU. 
THE SIGN-UP PERIOD IS FROM 3:00 ,\.H. Ttl S:OO P.M., ~toNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY, IN ROO!I 213 AlllllN!STRAT!ON BUIU>ING BEGINNT!IG ~:OVFJ!Bt:R 17 FUR INT"ERVIEWS SCHEOOLW 
.. . Convicts 
[continuedfrom page 1J 
unfair. 
All four of the prisoners think that a reform program much like their State Work Release program is a succcessful idea. It allows a 
successfu~ there will not be ·another extension. Voluntary ~ donations, however, can be taken 
•to Donna Shannon, (448 LeMans) anytime after the December 7 deadline. 
The total has already increased and expected to reach 75 percent by the end ofthe drive. For more information on child abuse and how your donation will be distributed, contact CANCO at 256-0937. 
Right To Life holds fair. 
On Saturday, December 6, Right To Life will be holding Father Griffens Childrens Christmas Fair. This event will include children ofthe university employees, the faculty, and students. It will begin with the lightingoofthe tree at8:00 in the ballroom on the secoond floor of La Fortune Student Center. 

SPECIAL 
l Dec. 15, 16, 17 
From ND CIRCLE 
To 
CHICAGO O'HARE 
EXPRESS! 
Depts 6:10a.m. Circle 11:15 a.m. 
2:45 p.m. Arrives 8:15 p. O'Hare 1:20 p. 4:50p.m 
ro Your Individual 
Airline Gate Return 
(Jan. 11, 12) 
Oepts 9:45 a.m. O'Hare 4:45 p.m. 
8:00 p. 
(BOr']rd Lower Level Carson' Circle Restaurant) 
$15 One Way 
$28 round tri 
Buy Your Ticket 
Your,Drivel!~ 
). . ·, . .i~~··· ·~ 
MQWR
:-'"-'""'-• 
.. 
. ' 

fOR NOVEMBER 2~ AND 2$ (IHANKSC!VI NC WEF.r). 
YO~ !IUSI SIGN FOR YOUR lNTt:RVlaiS PERSONALLY. 
DAn JAL 
BA ~G 
sc 
LW 

HBA -t-+-HH-+-~----------···----­
I
Nov 24 
X 
Cleveland Electric llhainating C:.~ ~­
B in Cb.F.. • C. F.., H.E., E.E., Met.
I 
Co•bust io.E___!:ngi nee ri-:a.&.J. _!_n_E
i xi~ 
-
Services for electric utilities. B in all EnRineertng
f­
! )J-­
disciplines. Design, deveolopiDt.'nt, research. Windsor, cr. Pentan~nt Resident Ylso1.
I I 
. I X X f 
X 
Lever Brothers 1 \..., _ 
~chold -de_U._rgents, margarines and ho~~e and b@auty I ~';-~aids. All Libera] Arts and BBA, KRA.. Sales positionsj leadlnfit to sales mana~ement. Priaarily Chicaao or 1 ISouth Bend ar~a. Citizenship required. iI 
X II:<>_r_d_ Cor_p
I 
BM in li.E., Ch.E. llel<>te Che•. 
1 
M I o X j .I!!'Eoit Ba.!!_k_~_ Iru.;t__c;c>
l ! 
I ! 
l
Ii X I M 
-
1--'~ ~
: I 
.:.,.....­
I I 
I i, 
i 
' ! I 

'?)l_,._. 
/
M X _...... 
, I .. 
I 
24) MilA 2S) BBA 
_I_n_t.£_1_ Co!]! Major electronic pr,~ducl area: Seah:or.du.:.tor, •'IDOryI components mtcroprocpsgers, rlicrocoq.Juter, principle , productS/fu~rvice& systeMs and MeDIOTY :iYsteu. 
I 
B in E.E., Met, Chem, Hath and Ph)lslcf: for engineers, tocnior engineers, technical sales respresentatlvea for design, product, fab process. P~nix, AZ, Portlac.l, OR., s,,nta Clar:t. CA. Citizenship required. 
1 
Camcar~J-~~~i~Q.._o_L'!..e~t.!:.OE..,__l_':'_t: ch-1ngcd date fro• Nov. 19. Enginerred Fa~teners. B in M.F... iur engineering trainees. BBA ln ~t. for ~nles development pro~ram. Rockford, tL. Permanent Mc.•sidC"nt Visa. 
l::r.,. i runeental_P_r_o.!_e_c_t_i.C!~__A.J,.e_n_cyHmJ "in--0~-.-E: and Che•-F.nviron.cntal. 
Internal Revenue Service
s·~;; ·i.C"ct.·-·--·---­
I-----------------,
1h Price I 
By Connie Cooney 

The Saint Mary's student char­ity, CANCO, is extending it's campaign for another week. 
Donna Shannon, campus coordinator for the drive, decided on the extension"because ofthe low (30 percent) response to the ftrst drive. I was vety disenhearted (sic) at the results ofthe first, and hopefully the second will en­courage more students to par­ticipate." 
Seventy five percent of the faculty and administration re­sponded to the collection. "We were aiming for 100 percent participation from the entire campus," Miss Shannon said 
prisoner to regain some self esteem and independence. 
The Work Release Program is designed in such a way that it helps the prisoners gradually work their way into the "social mainstream" by employing the prisoners and teaching them a trade prior to their 
release dates. 
"Prison creates monsters," said one prisoner. 

Advocating the Work Release program, one prisoner said, "Crime is a human thing, and it may not be nice, but it is a human thing." 


SUNDAY MASSES AT SACRED HEART CHURCH 


CC!~m1n1a..ry 
5:15p.mSaturday  Rev. Robert Griffin,  C.S.C.  
9:00 a.m SUnday  Rev. Jim Shilts,  C.S.C.  
10:30 a.m SUnday  Rev. Peter Rocca,  C.S.C.  
12:15 p.m. Sunday  Rev. John Fitzgerald,  C.S.C.  
7:15 p.m. Vespers  Rev. Peter Rocca,  c.s.c.  

FINANCIAL AID Full scholarships available to medical and osteopathic students. *TUITION 
*SUPPLIES 
*ACADEMIC FEES 

*$485 PER MONTH
*JEST BOOKS For information call Capt. Sam Redding or MSgt. Bob Reese Air Force Health Professional Procurement Office 
317-269-6164 
CALL COLLECT. 
Air Force -A Great Way of Life.... 



The deadline for the second drive is Sunday, December 7. Throughout the week, the section representatives from the resi­dence halls will be collecting the money. All students are en­couraged to cooperate in the second drive, to aid the finan­cially-troubled organization. 
The money collected will be distributed by CANCO to those in need. Next semester, there will be fund raising events to benefit the charity. 
"We ask that the majority of Saint Mary's will donate any amount; a dollar, even a quarter, to this cause," Miss Shannon said 
If this second drive is un­


The Observer Friday, December 5, 1980-page 4 
Veverka· 
1

racial trial tobegin Monday 
By Mack Sisk Associated Press Writer 
SAN ANTONIO, Texas-The trial ofCharles Veverka is a lega and political hot pototato that has been tossed all over the South by four cities trying not to get burned 
San Antonio is still juggling, but it looks likely the trial will begin here on Monday. 
Veverka, 29, is a former Dade County, Fla., policeman granted immunity in exchange for testi­mony against fellow officers, all ofthem white, whowere charged in the beating death of Arthur McDuffie, a black insurance executive. 
It was that testimony during which Veverka admitted taking part in the beating, involving fists, nightsticks and flashlights 
-which led to his indictmentby a federal grand juryon civil rights charges. 
The indictment came July 28, two months after the acquittals of four other forriier Dade County officers on charges of murder, manslaughter and being accessories after the fact set off bloody race rioting in Miami Eighteen people died 
Veverka normally would have been tried in Miami, but racial tensions there remain high. 
So the trial was moved to Atlanta, but that _city, too, is troubled, especially by the slay­ings or disappearances of 15 black children. 
The trial was shifted to New Orleans, but when four blacks were killed in a police shootout. Mayor Ernest Morial asked that the trial be moved again. 
It then travelled west to San Antonio where, to no surprise, some city leaders are not thrilled either. 
Two local black leaders per­sonally protested to Chief U.S. DistrictJudge William Sessions, who nevertheless set the case for trial. 
"I asked (Sessions) to not accept the trial in San Antonio," said city councilman Joe Webb. "There is a great potential that this trial will disrupt the geerally good relations between races in San Antonio." 
"The racial climate in San Antonio is, by and large, good," added Charles Hudspeth, presi­dent of the local chapter of the National Association for the Advancement ofColored People. 
"We are getting along fine and we don't need to bring in pro~ lems from Florida togetthis riled up. This has the potential of 
turning San Antonio into another Miami," Hudspeth said San Antonio Mayor Lila 

Cockrell, however, said she believes her city is mature enough to take the trial in stride: "I wasn't overjoyed at getting the trial here, but it's something we can handle ... 
..All indications are that the trial will begin in San Antonio on the 8th," said Brian McDonald, ftrst assistant U.S. attorney in Miami and one of three Justice Department lawyers who will prosecute Veverka. 
He is charged with violating McDuffie's civil rights by Hling false criminal charges, conspiring to violate his civil rights, con­spiring to falsify reports and being an accessory after the beating. 
U.S. District Judge William Hoeveler of Miami will preside. Conviction on all counts could carry a maximum sentence of26 years in prison and fines of $21,500. 
The charges arose from a federal grand jury probe ordered by U.S. Attorney General Benjamin Oviletti after h.e visited the Miami riot scene. Prosecutors have said other indictments would be sought. 
Veverka's lawyers protested the indictment as double jeopardy and a violation of their client's immunity. Federal officials say the charges are valid because they are different than those originally lodged against Veverka by the state of Florida. 
Eight officers in allwere accused in the Dec. 17 beating death, which prosecutors said took place after a chase which started when McDuffie ran a stop light on his motorcycle. One man was acquitted on a directed verdict from the judge after the prosecu­tion rested. 
CllUB 

1st Year Club Members 
SHOW US YOUR TALENT 
Saturday, Dec. 6 
At ST. Joe's Lake 
in F.J.'s 
SKIPPERS MEETING 
10 a.m.-Boathouse 
Veverka and two other officers 

were granted immunity and 
testified at the trial. That trial 
also had to be moved, to Tampa, 
because of pretrial publicity and 
racial tension in Miami. 
That continuing tension in 
Miami prompted Hoeveler to 
shift the trial to Atlanta. But on 
Oct. 30, Georgia Gov. George 
Busbee told the Justice 
Department he wantedit moved. 
Busbee said three problems 
caused him concm about the 
case being tried in Atlanta: the 
deaths of 11 black children and 
disappearances of four others, a 
boiler explosion which killed 
four black children at a day care 
center Oct. 13 and reports that 
the Ku Klux Klan was operating 
a commando-style training camp 
in Georgia. 
"I would hate to see anything come here, with the tensions we now have, that might deteriorate the situation," Busbee said then. "I think there are other cities that could accomodate that trial." 
But shortly after the trial was moved to New Orleans, police investigating the killing of a white officer shot and killed four blacks near one of the city's largest public housing projects. Two of the four dead were suspects in the officer's slaying. 
Gilbert Pompa, director ofthe Justice Department's Community Relations Service in Washington, and John Perez, head of the regional CRS office in Dallas, planned to visit San Antonio Friday to assess the racial situation prior to the trial. 
Perez said by telephone, how­ever, that the visit was routine and would not change plans to begin the trial Monday. "It's not a special assignment ofany sort. That's our job and we do some preparatory work to any situation that is similar to this," he said 
Perez added, however, "Our concern is that regardless ofhow routine something might seem, there's always that possibility ofa crazy coming out of the wood­work. So far as we're concerned there should be some appropriate coordination and some pre­cautions taken." 
...Grasso 

[continuedfrom page 1} 
years, said, "I hereby resign 
the office of governor of the 
state of Connecticut, by reason 
of physical disability effective 
at the close ofbusiness Dec. 31, 
1980." 
Mrs. Grasso said she made 
her decision ''with a heavy 
heart, but with full appreciation 
that the people's business must 
continue at the highest level 
and that an orderly transition 
can be secured." 
Mrs. Grasso's ftrst run for ~overnor in 1974 attracted nat­tonal attention because she was the ftrst woman to seek a governorship who did not follow her husband into office. She easily won re-election in 1978 and was apparently planning to run for a third term when doctors last spring performed a hysterectomy and detected 
cancer. 
Following surgery, the governor underwent radiation therapy. The side effects included gastritis and fatigue led her to cut down on her public a:ppearnaces. Last month, she was admitted to Hartford Hospital for treatment of ~hlebitis tn her left leg. Whlle she was there, doctors diagnosed liver cancer. 

ON THE ROAD TO SELLING OUT Has SOLD OUT! 

Juniper Press Announces A LIMITED SECOND PRINTING OFTHE BOOK 
MOLARITY ... GET YOUR COPY TODAY -A Great Christmas Gift 
Available at ND/SMC Bookstores 


The Observer Friday, December 5, 1980-page 5 

Profstudies insect antifreeze 
By Mike O'Brien StaffReporter 

Biology professor Jack Duman, spearheading a Notre Dame research team's study of natural antifreeze processes in insect cells, said his team ha:o; "~hno~r purified" an icP nucleator, which pnaules cells to keep from freezing. 
The study of antifreeze pro­cesses could benefit the fields of medical science and food production. 
WASHINGTON (AP)--A weary Deputy Secretary of State War­ren bnefed Prestdent Carter on his talks with Algerian inter­mediaries on the fate of 52 A~ericans now in their 14th month of captivity in Iran. 
Christopher returned to Wash­ington just before dawn yester­day, and after a short nap, went to the White House to report on his two days in Algiers. 
Christopher was felaying to Algerian intermediaries clarif­ications Iran has requested on the American negotiating posit­ion concerning its demand for release of the hostages. 
''We had long and good days in Algiers,'' Christopher told 
reporters  as  he  arrived  at  
Andrews  Air  Force  Base  in  
suburban  Maryland  at  4:30  

a.m. (EST). 
''Although our answers them­selves are quite short, we had a full opportunity to explain to the Algerian delegation and the Algerian foreign minister how they will work and how they will be carried out.'' 
He referred to the four condi­tions listed by Iran's parliament Nov. 2 for release of the captives: return of the late shah's wealth, termination of legal claims asainst Iran, a pledge of non-mterference in Iranian affairs and the release of Iranian assets frozen in the United States. 
Secretary of State Edmund S. Muskie said on Wednesday that it would be impossible for U.S. officials to fully comply with those conditions. 
But sources said Christopher was instructed to tell the Algerians so that they could tell the Iranians that U.S. officials will aid Iran in some fashion in its effort to reclaim the shah's fortune and fight the suits in American courts. 


SPECIAL LAST CHANCE HOURS 
for 
*CHRISTMAS* *PERSONALS* 
I 

Friday until 8 p.m. Sunday, 10 a.m.-noon 
The nucleator, which Duman described as a protein that causes ice to form outside, rather than inside a celL has remained mysterious unti1 now. In order to be stuJfed, the protein must first be purified 
Duman said that his research team has been studying the nucleator since last spring. He described the ultimate goal of the testing is to find the relation­ship between the nucleator's molecular structure and its 
US awaits response 
Two . of the ,Algerians--its ambassadors to Iran and the United States--flew to Tehran on yesterday to relay the American response. 
U.S. officials counseled pat­ience in awaiting a response. 
''This involves a good deal of time and complextty because we're dealing with three differ­ent languages, different legal systems and some highly complicated financisl matters,'' said Christopher. 
Another administration offic­
ial, who asked his name not be 
disclosed, said on the basis of 
past Iranian performance, it 
could be several days before a 
· response from Tehran was 

protective function. Purification 
of the  protein will bring  rhfs  
ultim~te  goal  closer  to  ful­ 
fillment.  
The  prime  subject  of  tpe  

experimentation bas been the beetle, but Duman reports that the antifreeze proteins of spiders, wood roaches, and centipedes have also been studied He added that cold-blooded animals could have antifreeze processes. 
Duman also explained that environmental cues cause insects to"turn the proteins on and off." Temperature and photo period, which is the daily period of the sun's light can affect the insect. He said that although measure­ment of light is probably more constant, in the spring the insects 
combine both factors. Duman suggested several ways 
in which medicine could benefit
from a better understanding of cellular antifreeze mechanisms. 
Prime among these would be the free storage of blood, skin, tissue, sperm or even body 
i forthcoming. 
growing season rosts. I I 
..-----------------------. 
L----------------.. 
organs. 
Contending that "literally I millions of dollars of blood are thrown away each year", Duman I 
said that antifreezes could bring I
about better and less expensive modes of storage. 1 
An agricultural application of · the antifreeze experiments could :J produce what Duman called 1 cold-tolerantcrops,plantswhich would not be sof vulnerable to 
I 
Restaurant 


The Best in Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown. Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. Closed Sundays & Holidays 
r 
'&---·CLIP~UPONI.:.. 
I ® I I I I I I I I I 
1 * A Single 1/4 Lb.* Hamburge
I * An Order of French Fries 
~ * 16 Oz. Soft Drink or Coffee 
~ *All You Can Eat Salad Bar 
__, 
I I I I I I I I I I 
! I 
~ ~
_ 

I ALL THIS s39.9.&TOMATOEXTRA I 
I FOR 0 NLy SALES TAX NOT INCLUDED I NOTVALIDWITHANVOTHER I
I 

PROMOTION I II EXPIRES DECEMBER 8. 1980 I 
I Offer good at all five South Bend locations: I 
I • 4205 Western Ave. I I • 4227 S. Michigan I I • 402 Dixie Way North 
I 

I Bloiiirft£EBI •1821 Lincolnway East I
I llU 1111. • 3401 Lincolnway West 1 
..________1 CLIP COUPON ________... 
;r
Notre Dame JtudentJ Jtudy the irwde oftheir eye/rdJ. (photo by Tim 
McKeogh) 

-----------------., 
I
1 
·1 
I 
1 
Saturday 1 
I I

I p·lzza Spec.I aI I I • h 1 1 1 I
Dur1ng t e game . . . 1 
. 1 

·----------------------------------------------­Wii$On_ B.ryQn Key "Subliminal Seduction 
in Advertising" Monday, Dec. 8, 8 p.m. Library Auditorium 
Free Admission .Sponsored by Student Union A~ademic Commission 
Special Holy Day Mass FEAST OF 
Call)pUS IMMACULATE CONCEPTION !miniStry 
Monday, December 8 
11:30 a.m.-5:15 p.m. 
Sacred Heart Church 




·, 


The Observer Friday, December 5, 1980-page 6 
Pasquerilla speaks ofND's future 
By Bob Gleason 
Frank ]. Pasquerilla, of Johnstown, Pa., is the man behind the construction of the two new women's dorms on the' northeast quadrangle. 
Although Pasquerilla, 54, never had the opportunity to go to college, his strong beliefin Notre Dame moved him to make the $7 million donation. As a result, the University will be able to house an additional 500 women, as of this June. 
This dream-come-true for the administration comes from a man whose life seems to be a realization of the "American Dream." 
Pasquerilla, born September 4, 1926, into a poor immigrant mining family, learned at an early age the value of hard work. As a fifteen-year-old, he was the breadwinner for his family, and later graduated fromJohnstown High School. 
During World War II, he went to Philadelphia and began work as a quartermaster. He was later to work with the Pennsylvania State Highway Department, learning some engineering and . accounting. In 1951, he became. a payroll clerk at Crown; Construction, Co., in Johnstown.: Ten years later, he owned the· company. 
Under Pasquerilla's steward-r ship, Crown Construction, later1\ to become Crown American Corporation, has become the 18th largest mall and motel developer in the country. Crown American, with an estimated worth of$ 300 million, now owns the chain of Hess's department stores which are located in Pennsylvania and Maryland This climb, however, hasn't changed Pasquerilla. 
According to his friends, Frank Pasquerilla is the same as he was before his-business success. A type of fellow, according to some, who can fly around in a Lear jet, and yet not be above pushing stranded cars out of the snow. 
Pasquerilla has long been a CIVIC leader. He served as President of the Pennsylvania Jaycees and Vice President ofthe 
-~Wted States Jaycees. Pasql;l3}jlla .· ·ruls served as a trustee for the University of Pittsburgh and St. Francis College. In addition, he has received honoraria from the nations of Italy and Isreal. Pasquerilla and his wife Sylvia reside in Johnstown with their children Mark and Leah. Mark is a senior majoring in government at Notre Dame, and he lives off campus. Mark recently expressed his feelings about Pasquerilla East and West. According to Mark, the administration wanted his father's name on the buildings to be a symbol of the contributions of the Italian-Americans to the Catholic commu~ity. In his early days inJahnstown, Frank Pasquerilla met with anti­1 talian and anti-Ca th olic feelings. Everything that Pasquerilla did was almost a break-through. Mark refers to his father as the "Italian-Catholic Jackie Robinson of]ohnstown." Mark says that his father believes that Notre Dame is the only university with "a chance" to become a great Catholic learning center. In regard to Mark's feelings about a woman's dorm bearing his name, he says,"l don't feel strange ... l'm very proud. It's a reminder of what contribution I must make 
to society." 
The $7 million endowment marks the largest one from a living person and the third largest in Notre Dame history. In commenting on the donation, Frank Pasquerilla has said, "I see in Notre Dame qualities so far beyond my comprehension, about what this institution can mean to our future." 
In recognizing Pasquerilla's feelings, Father Hesburgh once said that the donation was "rooted in an extraordinary sense of stewardship on the part ofa man who knows an obligation of wealth is service." 
When the donation was originally made, Pasquerilla was described as an "anonymous donor". He was hesitant, to some degree, of ha.ving his name placed on the buildings. Ina news conference held on December 7th of last year, Pasquerilla said,"l wanted to give during my lifetime, when I can see the fruits of it ... and see other p~ople 
enjoying it. But I feel funny 

By Sue Kelleher 
With completion of Pasquerilla .East and West in sight, over­crowding and the threat of a lottery appear to be things ofthe past. 
Father Heppen, director of housing, confirmed that begin­ning next semester, 132 women students will become residents of Pasquerilla West, the new resi­dence hall adjacent to the North Dining Hall. 
"I did not," the director of housing stated, "allow women living on campus to move to Pasquerilla West, primarily because we're only opening two floors. I will be extending invitations to off-campus stu­dents to live in Pasquerilla." 
When queried as to the fate of the freshmen women living in Villa Angela, Fr. Heppen replied, "We will be sending trucks over to help Villa Angela residents make the transition to Pasquerilla on Wednesday, Dec. 17." 
Pasquerilla West, which will ultimately house 250 women, features singles, doubles and quads-but no triples. Fr. Heppen expressed his relief at the absence oftriples, joking that "they only result in two friends and an enemy." 
Social space, laundry facilities, kitchen, and chapel are located on the new dorm's first floor, or "daylight basement" as Father Heppen referred to it. The new halls do not have basements. There are, however, two study lounges on each floor . 



"We've profited from what we learned in Grace and Planner," Fr. Heppen said. "Each room in the new halls has a sink." "The furniture," he added, "should arrive in the next ten days." 
In a telephone interview, Father Green, assistant vice­president for Student Affairs, stated that Mrs. Delores Ward, who is the present rector ofVilla Angela, will assume the same position in Pasquerilla West next semester. 
"She will be assisted, " he continued, "by Sister Mary Lou Marchetti, O.S.F., in a sort ofco­rectorship." According to Fr. Green, the reason for the co­rectorship is that Sr. Marchetti will be rector of one of the halls when both are completed. 
As for the rest ofthe hall's staff,, namely its resident assistants, Fr. Green said he re-evaluated the applications from last year. "The runners-up," he explained, "who expressed an interest in the new dorms" will serve as the staff of Pasquerilla •W:est. 
According to Fr. Heppen, both Pasquerilla West and Pasquerilla East should be com­pletely finished for the 1981 fall semester. "And," he beamed, "St. Ed's is showing progress too." 
Theatre sponsors production 

The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre third major productionI Knock at the Door by Sean O'Casey open tonight. 
The production is a theatrical form known as Reader's Theatre and is directed by Frederic Syburg. Syburg explained that , Readers' Theatre differs from the traditional drama in that it is the interpretation of a text rather than the representation of an action. The actors are seated on stools with the text present, and the production focuses on the · actual "telling" of the story. 
Curtain time is 8 p.m. in · 
Washington Hall. 
... 
I ' ' t I 
I 
-~--· ~~-­


Editorials 
Friday, December 5, 1980-page 7 
Santa visits Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 
Though all of the following Dean James Roemer: Lots of in the 1992 U.S. Senate under President)i A student body that Saint Mary's Security: A new personalities have not necessar­"snow" and a keg on Green President Jesse Helms. gives a damn. set of coat hangers for their ily been "good" this year, Field ChristmaS Eve. office, to replace the old bent Santa stopped by The Observer Mayor Roger Parent: A recon­David Israel: A book of Dan ones. yesterday and left them the Richard "Digger" Phelps: struction ofbreath-taking South Devine fairy tales. following gifts. We hope they Somebody, anybody who is Bend after the band of malic­are received with the same fast. ious Domers viciously ravaged Dan Devine: .An 8 x 10 color Dr. John Duggan: A golden holiday spirit they are given. his city with toilet paper. glossy of David Israel. tower so that Saint Mary's can Gerry Faust: The ability to Fr. Richard Conyers (rector of fmally outshine Notre Dame. cope with a smaller staff and a Keenan Hall): The power to Harold Rowley (Corby's ): Kathleen Sweeney (Sainttighter recruiting budget. put whoever he wants in the Neighbors who are deaf, dumb Mary's Student Body Pres­
Student Senate. and blind; and certification that ident): Her own one-page Kathleen Rice, (Dean of stud­Fr. Edmund Joyce: A lie-de­Corby's never sold a drink to student government newspaper ents): More violations of Saint tector. Greg Folley (former head of someone underage. so that all Saint Mary's stories Mary's party regulations so Fr. Theodore Hesburgh: Ronald Reagan's ND/SMC can be on the front page. that she will have something to Christmas with the boat people. campus organization): A sear Paul Riehle (Student Body ' do with herself during the year 
Dorothy Day: Simple but rare service 
Colman McCarthy 
NEW YORK-As though the only concession she made to sheltering them and the more we do Whether it was a young millionaire exquisite foolishness made absolute poor and forgotten don't have h::trd organizational mercy. In a half­it the more we realize that the most named John F. Kennedy who came sense. enoough times. now they are with-1 century's worth ofbooks, columns, important thing is to love. There to see her (in 1943) or one of the out Dorothy Day. She died last speeches and conversations, are several families with us, des­starving, she exuded authenticity. Colman McCarthy is a syndicated Saturday in Maryhouse, a Lower Dorothy Day argued that the titute to an unbelievable extent and It was so well-known that Dorothy columnist. East Side shelter that she ran for; problem of poverty was its being there. too, is nothing to do but love. Day lived among the poor-shared homeless women. Miss Day had ~ left too much to professional What I mean is that there is no their table, stood in their lines spent most of her 83 years in the problem-solvers. People with chance ofrehabilitation, no chance, endured the daily insecurity -that simplest but rarest form ofhumane empty bellies get turned into so far as we see, ofchanging them; the Catholic Worker became service: Feeding. clothing and Profound Questions, with poverty certainly no chance of adjusting known as the one charity in which • housing whoever of the earth's brokers on the hunt for Profound contributions truly did reach the Seniors
them to this abominable world wretched came to her.'' We confess Answers. In seminar after seminar about them, and who wants them poor. It is located at St. Joseph's to being fools," she said once about and report after report, the poor are adjusted anyway?" House. 36 E. First. New York 
deserve
herself and her small band of given the bum's rush. In the end as 10003.
That was from the June 1946 

pacifists and idealists, "and we . Miss Day said, "There are all too issue ofthe Catholic Worker news­•wish we were more so." few who will consider themselves paper. a monthly that has been a "It is a strange vocation to love pratse 
For the ten of thousands of anonymous poor who have been comforted by Dorothy Day since she co-founded the Catholic Worker in 1933, the foolishness has been more than adequate. At her wake the other night Street people knelt before her pine-box coffin and wept in prayers for a 
'woman they had come to believe was a saint. These were the "under­privileged," a term used with mock laughter around here because none ofthe poor of the Lower East Side remembers when society's priv­ileges were passed out in the first place. 
In this Boowery area of Manhattan, the conscience of Dorothy Day has been institution­alized in her Catholic Worker "houses of hospitality." But the establishment of such facilities ­not only in New York but in about 40 other cities -was about the servants .. who will give up their lives to serve others." · 
As a religious person who prayed daily -Mass and Communion, the Psalms, the rosary -Dorothy Day used her faith as a buffer against burnout and despair. Fit­tingly. it will have be taken on faith that her life of service l!lade a difference. She issued no progress reports on neighborhood improve­ment. summoned no task forces on how to achieve greater efficiency on the daily soup line. Nor did she ever run .. follow-up studies" on whether the derelicts ofthe Bowery renounced their drunken and quarrelsome ways. As her favorite saint, Theresa of Lisieux. taught, results don't matter to the prayerful 
On the subject ofresults, Dorothy Day had a philosophy of divine patience: "We continue feeding our neighbors and clothing and voice of pacifism and justice since 1933. Last Tuesday, as her body was carried along an impoverished block to a Catholic church for a requiem Mass, the local destitution was as unbelievable as ever. The jobless and homeless are so thick in the streets that the .. Holy Mother City ... as Miss Day called it. makes no pretense ofeven counting them. 
It may be just as well. Counters get in the way when there is soup to be made. Even worse, getting too close to the government means a trade-off that Miss Day resisted mightily in both words and action. ··The state believes in was," she said, ··and as pacifists and philo­sophical anarchists, we don't." 
Because she served the poor for so lon~d with such tireless intensity, Dorothy Day had a national constituencey of remark­able breadth. She was more thatn merely the conscience of the Left. 

the destitute and dissolute," Miss Day wrote a few years ago. But it is one that keeps attracting the young who come to The Catholic Worker as a place to brew the soup and clean the toilets, which is also the work of peacemakers. They are against military wars for sure. but 
their pacifism resists the violence of the economic wars...We refuse to fight for a materialistic system that cripples so many ofits citizens," The Catholic Worker has been saying for half a century. 
At the requiem Mass, the prayers for the dead were sungjoyously. A conviction was shared, just as surely as the Eucharist itself was shared, that here was one of Christ's faithful-one who whole­heartedly followed what she called "the strange upside-down teaching ofthe Gospel." The mourning poor best understood: This life of Dear Editor, 
Your tribute to the seniors on this year football team was definitely a appropos. No one deserves more credit for this year's success than the seniors who provided the needed leadershikp for such a young team. Certainly, all those listed were deserving seniors; how­ever, all the deserving seniors were not listed. We feel that by your overlooking of two senior members of the squad, Tom Kornich and Bolo "Rocky" Bleyer, you failed to pay tribute to those who certainly deserve it as much as any. 
Admittedly, it was the Jim ~tones, Pete Holohans, and John Hankerds who continually made the headlines, but it was the "Rocky" Bleyers and Tom Kornicks who encouraged their 
• 
Doonesbury 
11/titL, I 7HINI< 7HAT 
A8IXITll'M.\5n:{!Oitf­
~-~tiXI< fi:1IIJ4J/JR) 70 YlKR 7l!5TIMJNYIN 
CXVI<T~ 
'\ 

fellow seniors to reach their 
potentials. It can't be denied ·that Tom and "Rocky" are Garry Trudeau ·givers; while combining for a 
total of seven years of football . under the Golden Dome, they
1}f; (;JANj OFFaR HA5 
logged a mere forty seconds in ·~~ CllttMIT7fP DIRIN6, game time. While that does not
/tDI5IWXJ5 CRJn5. 7}1; 
qualify them for acknowledge­
IJIJ)()I) ~ 1M3 auuw... 
ment from The Observer, it 
" 
RIMJLJffDI /IIU. 8li01./ 1HEIR. J£4/Js RF£VER.. certainly does mean quite a bit to us. "Rocky" and Tom are ·~ivers, and they are better 
mdividuals because of that. 
S~gned, 
The Observer Friday, December 5, 1980-page 8 
P.O.BoxQ 

Change 
meal 
•

trmes· 
Dear Editor, 
I think that many Notre Dame 
students would support a change in 
dinner hours. Eating dinner between 
5 and 7 p.m each evening comes 
closer to the norm than eating 
dinner between 4:30 and 6:30p.m. 
I represent Carroll Hall on the 
Notre Dame food committee. Thus, 
I realize the difficulty involved in 
changing the meal hours. Although 
kitchen employees would need to 
work one half hour later each night, 
the kitchen staff would have an 
additional half hour in the after­
noon to prepare the food for dinner. 
The burden placed on each kitchen 
member of rushing to prepare 
dinner directly after serving lunch 
would be partially removed. If the 
food costs do begin to rise too 
rapidly, the old dinner hours could 
always be reinstated. 
Robert G. Smith, food service 
coordinator of the South Dining 'THE~~ 15, I'M BRoKE nilS YEM<, ~Gel> NEWS IS, t'M ~P6Cfl~ TO Bt OR'iRED ACA81NET FtSmON.' Hall, asked me to see how many stud~nts in my dorm approve~ of · simple. It requires some extremely interested in names. In about 72 home. Ifsalt was the only spice used onwards, the miSSionaries have the 1dea. Last Tuesday · evemng, thorough library research, on which A.D., he was killed by outraged for every meal in Europe then and if penetrated almost all ofAsia and the Carroll Hall resident.s attend.ing I unfortunately I did not have much . Brahmins, or in a differing account, some guy brought home some rare lesser-known Pacific islands. the weekly dorm m~etmg unamm-time to spend Well, one fact is very by the stray arrow of an Indian kind of spice, I could not blame the Conversions are increasing rapidly. ously approved t~e 1dea. ~hy? obvious. The faith must have been hunter. This is a vivid example of people if they went nuts over it! However, up to this day, the rise of 

Students playmg an mterhall established a long, long time ago how early and vast Roman That's not the point On board the nationalism throughout this part of sport such as football or basketball because of its deep roots in many Catholicism spread right after ships of the discoverers and con­the world causes a mistrust of wou~d s_tand a b~t!er chance of multiracial Asian countries and-its Jesus's death. The church that St querers, there were the missionaries. Christians who are often seen as part makmg 1t. to the dmmg hall before development as the m(\jor religion in Thomas founded flourishes today in Missionaries celebrated the of the colonial system. those ommous d~rs close. Rat~er countries like Papua, New Guinea, southern India The faith might have Eucharist while they were at sea and How do I conclude such an essay? !-ftan face the p~ed1cam~nt ofcuttt~g the Philippines, and Tahiti. Having remained very isolated in that area land (For your information, I think I found myself in a jam. Let mterhall prac~tce ses~tons sho~ m been born and spent more than half had it not been for the great outward Ferdinand Magellan's chaplain me retreat to the Acts ofthe Apostles ord~r to ~at dmner Wtthout paymg of my life in this part ofthe world, I movements of daring European celebrated the first mass on for some divine help. "When the day for tt agam, students would be able decided to trace the unusually deep missionaries. Philippine soil.) Many missionaries of Pentecost came it found the 
I' 
t 
r 
~ 
. 
I 
" :; ' 
to co~plet~. ~ full afternoon of athlettc actlVlty. Consequently, ~~udent:h ~ot~d b~ able t.~ ~at the mner a ey ave pat or. 
] eff Goldman
• .

Cath0 1tasm Spreads. 
As. 
tO 1a 
Dear Editor, 
Throughout the incredibly vast oontinent of Asia and the neighboring scattered Pacific islands, Roman Catholicism is undoubtedly notable as a persistent and profound Western influence on the East. One may ponder for a moment: when was Roman Catholicism introduced here? The answer, of course, is not roots of the Roman Catholic faith Sad to say, I do not know what there. I would like very much to ·happenedfromthentotheearly 16th share my somewhat interesting century. It is often said that there findings, though few, in this short ~were many fantastic sea voyages to 
essay. Spend a minute reading it ; this part of the world and famous There is a whole lot of surprising IAsian legends of missionaries who general knowledge trivia found here I carne with the crucifix in one hand which serves as ideal dinner table and the sword in the other. conversation. Let's talk about the 16th century 
expeditions ofthe Portugese and the 

Believe it or not, Christianity Spanish. Being ardent, macho, and came to Asia as soon as it was born. patriotic adventurers, they set out to There is absolute truth in this discover and conquer new lands. statement Proof: the remains of St They were in India, Southeast Asia, Thomas lie in a cathedral just and the Pacific islands. Southeast outside Madras, India How on Asia and the Pacific islands are earth did he end up in India? After known to historians as the famous the death of Jesus, St. Thomas got on Spice Islands. Scoop: the Iberian board an eastward-bound ship which voyagers stopped at the islands and 
··took him all the way to India. He did some shopping. The Spice established a church in a suburb of Islands became the talk-of-the-town Madras -Mylapore, for those in Europe when spices were brought chose to stay on the Spice Islands and preach the Gospel. The natives were hostile and those who were friendly were cautious. N everthe­less, Roman Catholicism made as profound an impact as colonialism, the latter being years later. 
And now, some dates. In 1505, the Portugese landed at Malacca, now a state in Malaysia A Franciscan priest founded a parish here which remains today. In 1521, yet another church was built in Malacca in order to accomodate new converts. At the same time, the king of the Philippines swore fealty to Spain and agreed to adopt the Roman Catholic faith. In 1542, St. Francis Xavier arrived in Goa, India, and proceeded to the Spice Islands. He died in 1552 on his way to China From the 17th century brethren gathered in one place. Suddenly from up in the sky there came a noise like a strong, driving wind which was heard all through the house where they were seated Tongues as of fire appeared which parted and came to rest on each of them. All were ftlled with the Holy Spirit They began to express them­selves in foreign tongues and make bold proclamation as the Holy Spirit prompted them." (Acts 2: 1-11 ) Faith in God is widespread. The people in this then-secluded part of the world are enjoying the faith and have an opportunity to forget those ever-devoted missionaries who left both their physical and spiritual trademarks noticeably behind. All the power to the missionaries! 
Victor Lee 

f ,~,, 
·~­
' 
..
·J·.~.·· 
1 
/. 
~ 
f 
I 
.. ' 
: 
i 


Reagan inherits paper jungle ArtBuchwald 
WASHINGTON 
According to the reports I hear, the Carter appointees and the new Reagan people are working smoothly to make the transition. You don't find the bitterness which has been pres­ent during the changeovers of other administrations. In many cases, the Carter people even seem hafpy to turn over the reigns o government to the Reaganites. 
I dropped in on one of the departments where a Caner appointee was briefmg a Reag­an lieutenant on what to expect. 
The Carter person said, ''Now in this blue metal fue cabinet are all the plans.for.improving mass transportation 10 the country.'' 
"They cover everything from 
''Excellent. What are in those six green cabinets over there?'' 
"The reasons why we can't build them. Let me show you how the system works. Let's say you were planning to build a 165-mile-an-hour train for the Northeast corridor of the United States. You would look up 'Super Train' in the blue cabin­et. We have photos ofJapan­ese trains, French uains, Ger­man uains and Swiss trains, as well as plans for each of those systems." ; 'They all look beautiful," the Keagan man said. 
''Now we go over to this green file cabinet and look up 'Super Train.' This photo shows you what would happen if you tried to go 165-miles-an-hour on an. American track bed.'' 
The Reagan man said, "It 
buses, to subways, to railroads,; !ooks_like the train has crashed to movable sidewalks. If it mto a ~arbage dum£» some­transpons .People--we've made· where m Philadelphia." a studv of tt." "It's actually Baltimore. Our engineers have figured out that, at 165-miles-an-hour, the 'Super Train' would fly off the tracks in Philadel(>hia and land just about here 10 Maryland, unless it smashed into a freight train in Washington first." 
'• How would I find the answer to that problem?" 
''You go to this green ftle cabinet here and look up 'Cost of layin~ new tracks for Super Train." 
''Twelve billion dollars?!'' the Reagan man exclaimed. 
''That doesn't include switch­ing equipment and computers. When you have a train going that fast, you have to keep the tracks dear at all times, be­cause it can't stop if it sees something ahead. In order to make sure that it is safe, you would have to build elecuic ~ates at all the railroad cross­mgs, which we figure will cost another six billion.'' 
' 'I guess we better forget 

about the 'Super Train.' What monorail, at present construct­other ideas are in the files?" ion estimates, would cost four 
"We have an excellent plan million a foot--without stair-for busing." ways for the stations." 
''Gov. Reagan is against bus-''Do you people have any mass ing. '' transportation ideas the new 
''This would not be used for president could implement?'' busing school children; it would "Here's one our re5earch and be used for busing people to development people have been work. Here is a prototype of a working on. It's a dog sled that new air-conditioned. vehicle that can J_>Ull six people at one time would seat eighty people and and 1t only costs nine hundred have room for sixty standees. dollars.'' 
"That makes a lot of sense. "Now you're talking. What's What's wrong with it?'' wrong with it?'' 
"To make it pay for itself, it "You need anificial snow would cost four dollars per machines every block along the person for a two-mile ride. The route or the do~s will refuse to cities won't buy them unless we pull the sleds.' give them one billion in sup-"Y~u Carter people aren't plemental payments.'' leavmg us much to work with.'' 
"That's ridiculous. What· . "That isn't true. We've about monorails? Gov. Reagan ":d~red founeen new green fue was very impressed with the cab10ets for the office, and monorail he saw at Disney-here's th~ number. of the _Gen­land." eral Services Admwsuatton in 
"I think the monorail folder is case you need any more." over here. Yes, here it is. _A 1J80, Los Angeles Times Syn­utcale 




The Irish Extra 
anObserver sports supplem,ent 
Friday, December 5, 1980-page 9 


Notre Dame continues Trojan War 

It 's getting older , getting better 
By Kt'l~y S11llivcm 
lf'rmm/.r Sports Editor 
At South Bend in October. At Los 
Angeles in December. \Vhenever it's 
played. wherever it's played, a Notre 
Dame-Southern California showdown is 
college football at its best. 
This is the match-up neither school can 
ever afford to lose if it wants to sit atop the 
polls after jan. 1. It's no coincidence that 
Notre Dame's national championship 
vears of 1966, 1973, and 1977 included a 
~in over their arch-rivals, and in fact 
those are the on~v years in the last 14 that 
the Irish have tripped the Trojans. 
Likewise, USC went on to claim the 
laurels in 1967,1972, 1974,and 1978only 
after completing a season unblemished 
against Notre Dame. 
You simply can't be number-one 
without winning this game. 
It's not even a conference clash, but 
over the years, this annual, nationally 
televised, highly publicized and much­
talked-about affair has taken on 
importance of unmatched proportions. 
"lfs a traditional rivalry-playing Southern Cal is like a 'World Se.ries' with us," Dan Devine once said. 
How true. Baseball does have its World 
Series, and Pro Football focuses on its 
Super Bowl. But how lucky college 
football is to have confrontations like 
ND-USC. 
"It's a big sporting event," Devine added. ''It's one of the great sporting events in the world. I just get a big thrill out of playing against USC. We haven't done so well the last few years, but playing them is playing the best, the best players and the hest coaches." 
Former Trojan coachJohn McKay once hinted that heatin~ Notre Dame is more important than winning the Pac-1 0 conference. Does his successor feel the same? 
"I think Notre Dame is the first thing you think about when coaching at USC," statedJohn Robinson. "I would echo what Coach Devine said-it is the'World Series' for our team. The dramatic thing about that .series in the last ten years, all through the seventies, is that the national champion has come out of that game­the winnner has won the championship eight of the last ten years. That's a phenomenal thing to me." 
This season's edition of the intersectional classic resembles in many ways the '66 clash, the last time Notre Dame marched out of the Coliseum victorious. 
The Irish, up against a Rose Bowl­bound USC squad, faced a roster riddled with key injuries, among them quarterback Terry Hanratty, halfi?acks Rocky Bleier and Bob Gladieux, center George Goeddeke, and tackle George Kunz. Notre Dame won, 51-0. 
Saturday, Southern Cal's offense will take the field without their star tailback (the nation's second leading rusher), their senior starting quarterback, and their top two fullbacks. But don't be fooled into thinking the Trojans won't bring a competitive team to their stadium. They'd like nothing better than to squash the championship aspirations of the Sugar Bowl-bound Irish. 
"I think I'm more excited about the game than any since I've been here," says 
[continued on page 16j 

·..:::. :.;.:·:·: .. . . .. 
Joey Browner: one stayedaway 
By Susan Straight 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The Daily Trojan 
"I wanted to make a name for myself," Joey Browner says. So, everyone wants to make a name for himself, somewhere, doing something. 
Browner had no qualms about that, for he knew he had the ability and the intelligence to play football well enough to make his name quite well-known. But what he was particular about was accomplishing this with no reflection fame preceding him. )'hat probably would have happened had he gone to Notre Dame. 
That was precisely the reason which, when combined with other considera­tions (like the weather), propelled Browner to pick USC, where he is a sophomore, starting at cornerback. 
You see, there are many Browners, six 
Could injuries be the difference? 
By Mark H annuksela 
Sports Wrtrer 
If incentive is going to be the 
determining factor in tomorrow's battle 
between second-ranked Notre Dame and 
the University of Southern California 
Trojans, ranked No. 18, then the Fighting 
Irish would appear to have tht!.early t!'dge. 
The fact that this game marks the 52nd 
renewal of one of the fiercest rivalries in 
all of college football will be enough to 
motivate both sides. The Irish will be 
trying to avenge last season's 42-2 3 loss at 
Notre Dame Stadium, and the 1978 loss 
that wasn't a Joss, 27-25, at Los Angeles, 
while USC will be trying to avoid a third 
straight loss by winning this "bowlgame," 
and finish their season with an 8-2-1 
record. 
The difference between the two schools lies in one very minute fact­thae No. 2 rating that belongs to Notre Dame. The Irish are very much in contention for the national champion­ship, that goal towards which every college football team in the country aimed back in August, but which few still sport today. And as if that weren't enough, the Irish will be trying to keep history from repeating itself, when in 1964 a 20-1 7 Trojan upset in the Los Angeles Coliseum prevented a previously unbeaten Notre Dame team from capturing that same national champion­ship they are currently pursuing. 
"This is one of the great rivalries in college football," said Irish head coach Dan Devine before leaving for the fun and the sun of the West Coast. "This is traditionally the one game in the country that everyone looks at. Normally, the national championship is at stake, and I think in our case that is certainly true this year. This game can make their season, and they are certainly aware of that." 
"Also, Southern Cal doesn't lose three straight games very often," Devine continued, "and I'm sure they have no plans to do it now. They will be waiting for us and we know it. Their losses the last 


boys and one girl. The boys are all . was always up there. But that's not the football players, big and talented and ' reason I didn't go there. The reason was 
several of them famous. The three brothers older than Joey all attended Notre Dame. 
Ross 26 was the most decorated. He won th~ o'utland Trophy as a defensive 1 end and now plays for the Cincinnati, Bengals in the NFL.Jim, 25, was an Irish defensive back who started for three 

years. And Willard, 24, played fullback ; knowledgeable about ~SC footb_all for Notre Dame in 1976, but transferred know that he has done a qutetly affecttve to Tulane. job this season, his first as a starting 
Joey, 20, is not one for joining the cornerback.. He ~as 6~ tac~les for the crowd, or basking in family glory that he I season, whtch t1es hts wtth George 
has yet to earn. But he was even less enthusiastic about the measuring and comparing that would have been inevitable had he attended Notre Dame. 
"To me, it seemed like I had alread)l gone there for five years," he says. "Back and forth, watching games-I 

Achica for fifth on the USC list. He is 
1 

third in deflected passes, with seven, and · has recovered three fumbles and picked off one pass. He is also an able kickoff return man with four runbacks this year 
1 covering 96 yards. 
{continued on page 10} 

that everything I did would always be compared to my brothers. 
"Also, ifl was going to be a defensive back, I was going to come out here because they pass a lot more," h~ says of the Pac~10 scho_ols. Then he. r_etterated the desue for hts own reco~utton. 
It has been fast commg. Those 
• 

-0---------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, December 5, 1980-page 10·,..
The Irish Extra .. 

A 11utirmfll uitm;pion.rhtp i.r !lot ti,ttl fur fiU'tiY i1r /)em /)evim· tiJl'
{11/(/ 
Notre Dtllllt'ix,tha/1 tetllll. 
. . . Joey 

fcontinuedfimn jJtt!-[e W 
Browner has the size that goes with the name. At 6-3,200 pounds, Joey says he is almost the smallest in his family. His speed is up to par as well, having run a 4.5, 40 as a Trojan, and a 4.4 in high school. 
Yet, a major part of his game is intimidation, a (vital practice for a defensive back. ·~ 
"That's the main thing-intimida­tion -so the receiver will be scared to catch the ball," he says. 
"They'll always be wondering where you are, and you do that from the very first play of the game." 
Browner is sure about where to direct acknowledgement, for his success in high school, which led to his being recruited by over 100 colleges. "Most of my success can be attributed to my youngest brother, Gerald (who is 16). I lined up behind him. He was a 6-3, 285­pound freshman in high school," says Browner, who used to line up six yards deep a.s a roverback. 
"When they would send somebody out to block me, he would just knock them down. Then Keith (his 18-year-old brother and a freshman linebacker for USC), who was a defensive end, would send them into me." 
This Browner-dominated defense made Atlanta's Southwest High a football powerhouse, with a 10-2 record inJoey's senior year. 
That was his only year at Southwest, however. He was born in Warren, Ohio, and attend high school there for three years. 
"That's were I learned to play football," he says of Warren Western Reserve High. He spoke with much respect for the coach, Dave Campbell. "He coached all the freshmen, and he taught us the fundamentals. We were only kids, but we played hard out there, and we played in the mud. If there was a mud puddle, he'd put the ball down right there. By the time I got to Atlanta, I already knew all the basics and I was already good." They are close -the six brothers ~nd 
i sister Burdette. Browner wears a tmy 
,.li 
gold ~arring in his left ear, as ~o all h.is
[ 
brothers· each one pierced hts ear m 
t 
college ~fter Ross did. But they don't
' 
influence each other's decisions about college, Joey says. "WhenI was being recruited by Notre Dame, Jim was still going there, and 
[contumed on pa!(e 11/ 

On Irishcareer 
Devine remembers and reflects 
It is a cold Monday morning, snow coyly threatening, and the Morris Inn has long been emptied of the multitudes of millionaires who inhabit its over-priced accomodations every weekend that the Notre Dame football team plays at home. In fact, the only sign of life in the hotel restaurant is a waiter searching for something to do and a hostess who looks as if she'd rather be anywhere than here. 
"Will this table be alright, Coach?" the hostess asks. Dan Devine nods his approval and holds a chair for his wife, Jo. · ·"I have to warn you," Devine smiles as he takes theseat next to his wife. "I'm a big breakfast eater." His order of pancakes, eggs-sunny side up-ham, orange juice and coffee makes one wonder how he maintains his reasonably thin figure. 
"This meal makes up for the many he misses," Jo Devine explains. 
* * * 

November 13, 1976 
SOUTH BEND-Safety Jim Browner intercepted ajeff Rutledge pass in the endzone wrth 4:17 to play, sealing a 21-18 Notre Dame victory over Alabama today. The victory gave Dan Devine's squad a 7-2 season record. It was Notre Dame's third victory over the Crimson Tide in as many meeti.1gs. 
* * * 

When breakfast finally arrives, Devine and his wife are well into reminiscing about their career at Notre Dame that will come to term onJanuary 1 when Devine leads his squad into the Sugar Bowl against Georgia-his fourth bowl appearance in six seasons. 
"I really love Notre Dame," he says emphatically. "I realize 

that every place and every person has faults but when we leave 
here we will both miss what we had for six years." 
"I definitely believe Dan would do it all over again," adds Mrs. 

Devine."Both ofus are looking forward to spending a little time 
together but there is no doulrt that we will miss the friends we've 
made and the experiences we've enjoyed." 
Neither Devine or his wife are willing to say whether they 

would continue to reside in the area. 
"I guess that depends on a lot of things," Devine says with a 

smile." 
* * * 

October 22, 1977 
SOUTH BEND-QuarterbackjoeMontanapassedfor 167 yards and two toucbdowns to lead Notre Dame to a 49-19 victory over the University ofSouthc.>rll Califomia. The Fighting Irish surpriseda capacity crowdand a nationaltelevision audience as wellas their opponeuts when they cameoutfor introductions dresjed in kelly-green and gold. It was the first time Notre Dame wore gree11, instead ofthe traditional bl11e and gold, since 1963. 
* * * 
"I definitely feel it is the top of the coaching profession," 

Devine says as he signals for a second cup of coffee. 
"But the funny thing is, I never set out to reach the top. That 

was never one of my goals. 
"And I think that's the reason I remained honest." 
Winning, conjectures Devine, is an inadequate criteria for 

measuring success. 
"That's the reason there is so much cheating in this business," 

he adds. "Coaches are put in a position where they are told 'Win 
or else' so they feel they have to cheat to keep their job." 
He is quick to point out that that is notthecaseatNotre Dame. 

"In 1963, Notre Dame was looking for a football coach and I came to South Bend to meet with Father Hesburgh and Father Joyce," he remembers. "They did not offer me the job because they k"new I had just signed a contract at Missouri. Basically what we did was spend some time exchanging ideas about the future of college football. 
"They told me that they were looking for a coach that could 

run a competitive program that emphasized the right things; 
educatioh, honesty and winning fairly." 
He pauses here before he goes on. 
"Apparently they felt I could do the job," he says,"because 

when they had an opening in 1975, they offered it to me." :· 
"I really feel there's a certain pride in doing wall and doing it 

properly," adds Mrs. Devine. ''I get a chance to meet a lot of the 
high school players Dan recruits and I've always felt that the 
athletes you recruit honestly will do things for you that illegally­
recruited pia yers will not." 
She looks at him and he looks at her, 
"We can leave here with our heads held high," he says. 
• * • 
January 2, 1978 

DALLAS-Notre Dame claimed college football's mythical national championship today as they wallopedprl!11iously-undefeated Texas, 38-10, in the Cotton Bowl R~tnning backs, Terry Eurick and Vagus Ferg~tson scored two touchdowns apiece and quarterback, joe Montana, threw for another to complete Notre Dame's rout ofthe Longhorns. Heisman Trophy winner, EarlCampbell was heldto 116 yardson29 attempts bythe Fighting Irrih defense. 
"The colleges that have contacted me since I announced my resignation have all told me the same thing," Devine continues 

after ordering another large orange juice and a dozen sweet rolls 
to take to the secretaries in the football office. 
"They are looking for a coach with a winning record who can build a program without cheating. Of course, I have answered every inquiry the same way by saying that until the final gun of the Sugar Bowl I will give every second I have to N_otre D~~e. After that, J o and I are flying to San Francisco and I wtll be wtllmg to listen to their offers then. 
"But nothing before January 2." 
"I'm not sure what Dan will do," says Mrs. Devine. "Certainly 
we are both looking forw'lrd to a little time to ourselves but I am 
not sure how long he can keep his nose out of football. 
"He's been a coach longer than he's been.anything." 
* * • 
January 1, 1979 

DALLAS -Trailing 34-12 with 7:2 7 to play, the _N_otre pame football team staged one ofthe greatest comebacks in gridtron brsto;y and defeated Houstmr, 35-34, in the 43-rd. armual Co!ton Bowl Clamc. , 
"It was the greatest comeback in Notre Dame britory, thafs for sure, commented Irish athletic director, Edward "Moose" Kraus~. Quarterb~r.k, joe Montana, ran for two touchdo~ns a~d passe_d for an~t~er-a_n etg~t­yard blooper to split end, Kris Hames wzth no trme re:nam~ng o~ tbe cloc.k. Placekicker joe Unis' PAT nazled down the one-potnt Insh vzdory . 
"I guess I do get 'up' for big games," Devine la~ghs. '_'The first 
time I coached against Alabama, when I was at Mtssoun, we were 
19-point underdogs but we won the game 35-10. I am no~ a loud, 
boisterous coach and I don't get excited often. But I thmk that 
works to my advantage. When the players and staff see me 
excited then they know there's something to be excited about." 
He talks about his Notre Dame career with pride. 
(coTitinued on page 12) 
• 


• ~an ~r&inr ;tlrab ,J;ootball Gloor~ 

;JElnibersiil,l of ~otrc ~n:mr 
~otn ~hunt, ;lnbinna <16556 
DeceMber 1, 1980 

To: '!be Notre Dane Student Body 
It's with mixed emotions that I atte~Ft to thank ~ for all your oootri.OOtions to the Notre DanE football program. I'm extrarely p1nased to have a chance to plblic1y express my feelinqs -yet, at the ....,.. tine, I realize words alone cannot C<JrlW'll my innemost tlvughts and feelinas for all of you, 
I'm sure all of you l'8!B!tler your fresltnan }'e!ll'""""" Notre DanE first ted< the field in qreen jerseys. I thinl< that qaore became syrrb:Jlic of the l<::JVe 
• affair beto.ieen the student body anct ne, ala'IQ with my staff 11tld, of course, the players thmlselves. 1\s rrerl:.ers of the student body t.helfosel~. the players have been a part of that 10'.119 affair, too, as has my wife, Jo. 
This love has qrawn and been nurture::l by heartache and joy and the 11011!1\ts we shared the ecstasy of victory snatched fran the depths of defeat. Those great nonents have OFe abaJt because of a qrrup of youro lT9l wiD had too J!UCh heart to quit -and their a.oc:arplistttents have care abcut, by no small .-easure, throuQh your support. The legacy of your toom is stated quite si.Jll>ly oo the plaque that hangs in the Notre DarTe Sta~li~r~ dressino roan. Preser ':.ed by the president of the student body folle>olinq the 1978 Soothem Califonlia qame, it sillply yet eloquently states what our four years have been ul abrut. ''To Dan Devine and the Fiahtinq Irish. '!'hanks for never giving up. The Notre DiwTE Student Body. • 
~!hile the !=hYSical beallty of the Notre DiwTE cal'pllS is well kncwn, the tiue 
beauty of the University is its people. It has always been the oeople at 
Notre DanE ..no mal<e this school the great place it is, and thilt's ..ny all 
of you are such an i..nportant part of our endeamrs. 
As~ probably rsremer, our 49-19 victory over Sot.lthern Cal three years ago was cnly the first step en the road to the naticnal chanpionship that year. <:n1y with your enmuraqanent and supiX>rt the remainder of that season were WE able to achieve that goal. Now as ""' again fllCe Southern Cal and then look 1lhead to the Sugar Bowl, we again lodt forward to your assistance as an aid to reaching our qoals for the 1980 season. Cllly with your help can we hope to achieve them. 
! wruld personally like to exterd my heartfelt thanks for all your d!Mlticn, in the hope that toqether we can make lre oonclusicn of this seascn another special nonent in Notre Dl!lre history. 
I pray that OUr Lord and his Blessed i'tlther will be with ~ always. 
D-=:>tedly your11 in Notre IB1e, 
JJ~ L:tRt ~..:.. 
TheIrish Extra Friday, December 5, 1980 -,Page 11 

Zettek, Scully-1st team All-Americans 

By A rmtmd Komf('ft! 
Spor/.1 1-f'r~ter · 
"Failure every now and then is good. It gives a person a taste of reality, and it teaches a person not to give up, no matter how hopeless the situation appears to be. If I've learned anything at Notre Dame, that's it-not to quit." 
The thoughtsand words belong toJohn Scully, starting center and tri-captain for the Irish football team, and, to hear his story, one cannot doubt he knows what he is talking about. 
It all began rn 1976 when Scully arrived at fall practice as a freshman. During the course of the early sessions he tore ligaments in his right ankle and was out for the season. The saga had begun. 
His sophomore season was spent on the prep squad-that group which spends all week preparing the team for Saturday's game and then spendsSaturday watching. At the time, Scully was playing offensive tackle, and was thought to lack the power necessary to excel at that position. 
As easy as it would have been, Scully did not give up. In fact, he turned the experience to his advantage. "I think I developed myself as a football player more that year than at any other time in my career," he recalls. 
His spring performance seemed to support his opinion, as he moved up to second team and seemed on the verge of realizing his potential. Unfortunately, he tore ligaments in his knee, was forced to have surgery and spent the summer at home in rehabilitation. 
Offensive line coach Brian Boulac recalls his thoughts at the time: 
"We really weren't anticipating him coming back and being able to play that next fall." 
Scully's doubters were pleasantly sur­prised. Not only did he return, but he returned in shape and ready to play. He was the second-string offensive tackle his junior year, playing in six games. All­America center Dave Huffman graduated that May, Scully moved to center, and the rest is history. 
"I was going to ask the coaches to move me to center but they beat me to it," Scully explains. "Center is a very mental position. I believe a smart player can beat a strong player." 
Apparently Scully has mastered the art, for he was named to the AP All-America team earlier this week (along with team­mate Scott Zettek), and is expected to be picked in the first or second round of the pro draft next spring. Assistant coach Bill Meyers puts it simply, "I don't think there's a better college center in the United States." 
And although Scully does aspire to a professional football career the fifth-year sociology/economics major has not let the game become an obsession. He is an accomplished pianist-he's played for the last 15 years-and enjoys writing his own music. 
As Scully admits, "I want to be a person before a football player." 
Still, football is an important part of John Scully's life-and a part at which he excels. How does he characterize his own play? 
"I like to think I play with a lot of intensity. I don't think in terms of having a great game. Instead, I say before each down that I'm going to have a great play. No matter what it takes, I'm going to make a great block. That's what g~eat games are made of-a series of great plays." . 
Meyers sees Scully's leadership as instrumental in the success of this year's offensive line. "He's like another coach on the field. John is mature, and he keeps the young players in line." 
It has been a long and difficult road for John Scully, but at last he has established himself-not only as a great football player, but also as an outstanding person. 
Perhaps Dan Devine put it best when 
he said of his star center, "He can be 
anything he wants to." 
All those who knowJohn Scully have no 
doubts, for he has tasted failure without 
being defeated 
... Joey 
•

[continued/rom page 10/ 
they gave him kind ofa hard time saying, 'how come your brother's not corning here?' But he didn't tell me whatto do." 
He doesn't know where Gerald will go after high school, and, ofcourse, it's too soon to tell. 
"But I'll follow his progress where ever he goes." And as Browner comes into his own, more people will follow his. 
Zettek alwaysbounced back 
"USC is such a fine team-they do so
By Beth Huffman 

many things well," says Zettek, who made
Sports Editor 

a key fumble recovery in the 7-0 win over Alabama. "USC will probably be as toughHe leads the Irish defense in sacks with 
as Georgia."
15 for a total of77 yards lost. He is fourth Zettek has the fortune of claiming ain tackles made with 56, falling behind the part of the 1977 crown, totalling 51linebacking corps of Bob Crable, Mark tackles on the season as a sophomoreZavagnin and Joe Rudzinski. He has won 

playing behind Willie Fry. 
theAP Midwest Player ofthe Week award "This year's team has more overallthree times. 

talent than the 1977 team," says Zettek.
He is all-America defensive end Scott "There are not as many individual stars as Zettek. 

there were back then; there are no"I think I play with a great deal of Browners, no Bradleys. .-:
intensity," says the Sorin Hall resident 

"As a team we show a perfect blend of
when explaining.his successful 1980 experienced seniors and talented youngcampaign. "I play as intensely or maybe players."

more intensely than most any player I Few fans, players or oddsmakers sawknow. Most players who come to Notre the 1980 Irish as championship material.

Dame are great athletes, but what Most probably saw this season as aseparates the first string from the second building year, with the 1981 campaign ais that ·great intensity. 

potential title year.
"I play full-out every play, and I don't "If you had told me last Augustthat atworry about the next. Most players play this point in the season we would be 9-0-1,not being aware, as I am, that every play I would have looked at you a bit cockeyed.

may be their last." 

We have surprised even ourselves,"Why should Zettek worry about his last claims Zettek, who says the win overplay ever? He's young (22), he's un­Michigan first gave him an indication ofdeniably talented, and he's healthy. 
the team's potential.
But "healthy" has not always described 

Few would argue that Zettek has not
Zettek's physical shape during his Notre been a vital component in every Irish win. 

Dame tenure. 

But what makes Zettek so special?
The 6-5, 245-pound, converted defen­"People try to make football such asive tackle has been plagued with knee complicated game," says the outspokenproblems. Both knees have required Zettek. "But it's just a game where asurgery, caused considerable pain, and bunch of pituitary cases try to kill eachgiven rise to speculation as to his future in other. It's a game where you just play football. 

mostly by instinct. Most coaches preach"I don't think I'm in any more danger 'Don't think, just react,' and that's what Ithan any other player," says the Elk 
strive to do."
Grove Village, Ill., native. "I don't think "Scott has had a remarkable year,"of it as a handicap." 

praises Coach Dan Devine. "He hasZettek, a psychology major, does admit developed into an all-around footballthat the knees occasionally feel numb, player. He plays like I like them to play,quipping, "Ifyou want to know when it's like I like to coach defenses."
going to rain, just give me a call." 

With just two games remaining to playThe St. Viator High School graduate is in his No. 70 jersey, Zettek is not yetnot worried about his future in football, ready to get sentimental and reflectivedespite the injuries which sidelined him about his college years. In fact, he is notduring the 1978 season. 
afraid to admit that he is just a little bit"Based on my performances against 
-unhappy with Notre Dame.
people currently in the NFL and those Praising Alabama, Georgia Tech andthis year of pro caliber, I feel I have 

Southern fans in general for continued
proved I can make it in the pros. 

and undampered support of their teams,
"Playing a full year at the caliber I have Zettek has a few bones to pick with Irish this season can leave nodoubt in anyone's 

followers.
mind that I can do it." 

"I don't know if they are just con­But pro football seems far in the future 
centrating on how drunk they got before
to Zettek, as does theJanuary 1 bout with Georgia. famlifllfed 011 Pt~~l' 12/ 


The Irish Extra Friday, December 5, 1980 -page 12 
IrishStats Line-ups ·... Devine 

TEAM STATISTICS ND OPP SCORING G TO PAT R·PA S FG TP NOTRE DAME OFFENSE POS. NO PLAYER HT WT CL
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 3495 2133 Oliver 10 019·23 0·0 0 17·22 70 
Total Plays 768 605 J. Stone 7 0·0 0·0 TE 86 Dean Maaztak 6·4 Jr. (continuedfrom page 10}
10 0·0 0 42 227 

Yards par Play 4.6 3.5 Carter 6 6 0·0 0·0 0 0-0 36 LT 74 Mike Shiner 6·8 255 So. Yards par Game 349.5 Kiel 0·0 0 18 76 Randy Ellis 6·4 251 "The memories of the 1977 national championship will last a
213.3 10 3 0·1 0-0 LG So. Barber 9 2 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 12 C 57 John Scully 6·6 265 Sr. lifetime," he sighs. "Of course, the Cotton Bowl win over
PENALTIES·YARDS 73·771 37·412 Holohan 1 0 1 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 6 RG 64 Tom Thayer 6·5 258 So. Houston was great as well. Moose says it was the greatestFUMBLES-LOST 18·12 25·15 
Krimm 1 0 1 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 6 RT 71 Phil Pozderac 6·9 260 Jr. 
comeback he's ever seen and he's seen quite a few.
Yards Returned 0 0 Hunter 8 1 0·0 • 0·0 0 0·0 6 SE 85 Tony Hunter 6·5 211 So. 

"People sort of think I do my best coaching in big games... I
Courey 7 1 0·0 0·1 0 0·0 6 QB 5 Blair Kiel 8·1 200 Fr.
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 191 114 Gibbons 10 0·0 0-0 0 0·0 6 FB 33 John Sweeney 6·2 225 So. guess we have won a few of them." 
By Rushing 132 59 Zavagnin 10 0·0 0-0 0 0·0 6 HB 22 cPhil Carter 5·10 193 So.
By Passing 46 49 • • • By Penalty 13 6 McGarry 8 0-0 0-0 0 0·0 6 FL 31 Pete Holohan 6·5 228 Sr. September 20, 1980 
Buchanan 10 0·0 0·0 0 0-0 6 P 5 Blair Kiel 6-1 200 Fr. THIRD DOWNS·CONV. 177·79 153·43 
Bell 5 0-0 0-0 0 0·0 6 KO 4 Mike Johnston 5·11 175 So. Percentage .446 .281 10 9 0-0 1-1 0 0·0 2 SOUTH BEND-Harry Oliver's 51-yard field goal with no time
Vehr PK 3 Harry Oliver 5·1 1 165 Jr. Johnston 10 0 1·1 0-0 0 0·0 1 remaining lifted the Fighting Irish to a 29-27 victory over Michigan today
POSSESSION TIME 343:26 256:34 Minutes per Game 34:21 25:39 0 17·22 235 at Notre Dame Stadium. Oliver's boot, the second longest in Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME102120·24 1·3 OPPONENTS 1011 5·5 1-6 0 6·1 0 91 history, raised Notre Dame's season record to2-0 afier its 31·10 win over NOTRE DAME DEFENSE 
Purdue in the season opener. ' 
LE 47 John Hankerd 6-4 235 Sr.

RUSHING G NO VOS AVG TO LG DEFENSIVE STATS 0 TM TL·YDS PBU FR BK 
We've gotten offto a pretty good start," said Head Coach Dan Devine
L T 92 Joe Gramke 6-4 246 Jr. 

J. Stone 10 188 896 4.8 7 73 Crable 137 7·12 3 2 0 6·4 240 Fr. afterwards. "But we've still got a long way to go." · 
RT 77 Tim Marshall Carter 6 166 780 4.7 6 54 Zavegnin 81 4·16 3 1 0 RE 70 Scott Zettek 6-5 245 Sr. 
* * * 
Sweeney 10 47 199 4.2 Rudzinski 59 6-17 2 0
0 17 LLB 46 Mark Zavagnin 6-2 230 So. 
''I'd have to say another coaching job is very unlikely at this 
Courey 7 32 154 4.8 27 Zettek 56 15-77 0 
MLB 43 Bob Crable 6·3 220 Jr. 

Kiel 10 68 137 2.0 3 80 Kramer 47 11·45 3 0 point because I'mstill thinking about this season," Devine points
RLB 51 Joe Rudzinski 6·3 208 So. Barber 9 38 128 3.4 2 11 Marshall 41 10·47 0 1 0 out. "The reasons I gave for my resignation back in August are
LCB 30 Stacey Toran 6·4 185 Fr. Moriarty 9 3 78 26.0 0 49 Gremke 41 3·11 0 1 0 RCB 19 John Krimm 6·2 183 Jr. still valid now. I'm really looking forward to spending some time Buchanan 10 25 75 3.0 1 9 Krimm 38 0-0 8 0 1 
SS 23 Dave Duerson 6·3 198 So. with my family. A coach really has little time for much else than 
Bell 5 5 66 13.2 1 27 Gibbons 36 1·2 3 0 0 
FS 27 Tom Gibbons 6-1 181 Sr. football."Hunter 8 4 44 11.0 0 22 Henkerd 33 5·11 2 1 Mosley 7 12 37 3.1 0 9 Duerson 29 2-13 3 1 0 Still, Devine claims, another job is not out of the question. 
McGarry 8 2 2.0 1 2 Kidd 28 2·5 0 1 0 "I am in great health," he smiles. "Better than I was six years Adell 1 2 2.0 0 2 
SOUTHERN CAL OFFENSE

Toren 28 2-10 5 0 0 
ago. And there isn't a coach in the country that works more hours
POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL
Grooms 3 2 2.0 0 2 

Rice 27 0-0 1 1 0 
than my staff and 1."
Morris 3 2 1 0.5 0 2 DeSiato 20 2·8 2 0 TE 89 Hoby Brenner 6·5 235 Sr. 

Tripp 7 -2 -2.0 0 0 Mrs. Devine nods emphatically on this one.
Naylor 8 0-0 0 1 0 WT 72 Don Mosebar 6-7 265 So. NOTRE DAME 10 594 2599 4.4 22 80 Cichy 7 0-0 1 0 0 WG 66 Bruce Matthews 6·5 250 So. "I hate to be secretive," he adds "but we'll just have to wait and OPPONENTS 10 376 1020 2.7 5 37 Lueken 6 3·15 0 0 0 C 75 Allen Pugh 6·4 245 Sr. see. All I'm worried about right now is Southern Cal and then Mishler 5 0-0 0 0 0 SG 64 Roy Foster 6-4 260 Jr. Georgia." Bone 5 0·0 0 0 0 ST . 68 Keith Van Horne 6-7 265 Sr. PASSING G NO CO PCT INT VDS TO 
* * * 
Autry 3 0·0 0 0 0 SE 29 Jeff Simmons 6·3 185 So. 
November 15, 1980 
Kiel 10 119 48 .403 5 531 0 Clasby 3 0·0 0 0 0 08 15 Scott Tinsley 6·2 195 So. Courey 7 51 25 .490 4 323 2 Masini 2 0-0 0 0 0 FB 38 Paul DiLulo 6-1 225 Jr. Hunter 8 1 1 1.000 0 31 0 Puttstuck 0·0 0 0 0 TB 33 Marcus Allen 6·2 202 Jr. BIRMINGHAM -The Notre Dame defenseput on an inspiredeffort 
Fasano 0-0 0 0 0
J. Stone 10 2 1 .500 0 11 0 FL 8 Kevin Williams 5·9 165 Sr. 
before a national television audience and a sell-out crowd at Birmingham's 
Holohan 10 0 0.000 0 0 0 Brown 0-0 0 0 P 17 David Pryor 6·2 210 So. 
Legion Field as they blanked a tougi1 Alabama sq11ad 7-0. The victory,
Gray 0-0 0 0 0 KO 10 Eric Hipp 5·8 178 Sr. NOTRE DAME10 174 75 .431 9 896 2 D. Boushka 1 0·0 0 0 0 Notre Dame'sfourth over the Crimson Tide infour games, gave the Irish an
PK 10 Eric Hipp 5·8 178 Sr. 
OPPONENTS 10 229 104 .454 9 1113 6 

8-0-l recordandan invitation to play undefeatedand to~ ranked Georgia in
NOTRE DAME 745 73·289 36 16 2 
the Sugar Bowl on New Year's Day.
OPPONENTS 1062 62·242 32 12 1 SOUTHERN CAL DEFENSE
RECEIVING G NO YDS AVG TO LG 

•Includes solos and assists OLB 51 Chip Banks 6-5 228 Jr. Hunter 8 23 303 13.2 57 
T 79 Charles Ussery 6-4 240 Jr. 

Holohan 10 19 277 14.6 31 The plaque presented to Dan Devine by the seniors on his last 
INT. RETURNS NG 78 George Achica 6·5 250 So.
NO YDS AVG TO LG 

Vehr 10 7 95 13.6 0 24 Notre Dame football team reads:
T 70 Dennis Edwards 6·4 230 Jr. Masztak 4 7 91 13.0 0 28 Krimm 2 67 33.5 49 
OLB 87 August Curley 6·3 210 So. To Coach Devine Carter 6 5 27 5.4 0 10 Gibbons 2 55 27.5 1 53 
ILB 54 Steve Busick 6·4 230 Sr. Sweeney 10 4 21 5.2 0 9 Duerson 21 21.0 0 21 ILB 35 Riki Gray 6·2 225 Jr. (
"What we gave, we have,
Tripp 7 3 31 10.3 0 17 Toran 10 10.0 0 10 
CB 47 Joey Browner 6-3 205 So. 

J. Stone 10 3 29 9.7 0 10 Zavagnin 6 6.0 0 6 
CB 40 Jeff Fisher 6·11 18~ Sr. 

M. Boushke 10 2 28 14.0 0 14 Masini 6 6.0 0 6 
ROV 42 Ronnie LoU 6·2 200 Sr. What we didn't give, we've lost forever, Buchanan 10 2 -6 -3.0 0 0 DeSisto 1.0 0 
S 49 Dennis Smith 6·3 205 Sr. 

NOTRE DAME 10 75 896 11.9 2 57 NOTRE DAME 9 166 1B.4 2 53 Thank you for showing OPPONENTS 101041113 10.7 6 45 OPPONENTS 
10 69 6.9 0 26 

us how to give and for 
PUNTING G NO YOS AVG LG 

all we now have."
Kiel 10 59 2373 40.2 69 
• .. Zettek 
NOTRE DAME 10 59 2373 40.2 69 
11·22-1980 
OPPONENTS 10 74 2858 38.6 69 

fcontinuedfrom page 11J Our last game together
years of your life is. a long time
PUNT RETURNS NO YDS AVG TO LG 

• here. It'll probahlv hit lllt' when I Duerson 23 148 6.4 0 22 for Our Lady
the game or their tests <tfter the walk into the boo-kstore with nw 
Krimrn 14 87 6.2 0 19 

game, hut there is something five kids wearing bright gret'J1 · 
Toran 9.5 11

2 19 0 Senior players 
Gibbons 1 1.~ 0 definitel~· wrong with their corduroys," laughs Zettek. ,, Zavagnin 0 0 0.0 0 spirit," claims a disenchanted The five kids and cordurovs 
1980 

NOTRE DAME 40 6.4 Zettek. may be a long time in the waiting
255 22 OPPONENTS 25 196 7.8 0 39 Scott Zettek mav not be readv for Scott Zettek, as may the sighs 
to join the alumn( ranks, or to­when missing Notre Dame. But "This job has been worth it to us," Devine says as his wife nods. KICKOFF RETURNS NO YOS AVG TO LG cheer for ol' Notre Dame-and "The rewards have been great.
Notre Dame will miss Scott "I'd do it all over again in a second..

J. Stone 13 288 22.2 0 49 he's certainly not ready to hang Zettek. undouhtedlv one of the Barber 7 156 22.3 0 41 up the pads. most talented defen'sive pla~·ers • •• 
Mosley 18.0 18 January 1, 1981
1 18 0 "I don't think I'll realize that to grace the field in an Iri~h NOTRE DAME 21 462 22.0 0 49 it's over for a long time. Five uniform. OPPONENTS 39 66B 1 7. 1 0 6 7 NEW ORLEANS-

Grid Picks 1980 
Haill\larv, full of grace, The guys want Sully In Sel:ond place! 

Paul Mullaney Editor-ill-Chief 92-44, .676  Beth Huffman Sports Editor 99-)7.. 718  Michael Ortman Assoc. Sports Ed. 96-40.. 706  Kel~l' Sullil'all Women's Sp. Ediwr /OJ-JJ . .757  Frank LaGr(ll/a Sports Wriler 94-4i..691  Craig Clt•·a/ Sports Writer 95-41, .699  Brian Beg/a111' Spons Wriw· 98-38, .7)/  Bill Marquard Sports Wriler 98-38. . 7J I  Garr Grane1· Spor1; Wriler . /00-)6. . 7)5  
Eastern Kentucky at Lehigh Florida at Florida St. Notre Dame at Southern Cal  Engineers by 1 Seminoles by 7 Irish by 4  Engineers by 1 Seminoles by 1 1 Irish by 6  Engineers by 3 Seminoles by 7 Irish by 47  Engineers by 10 Seminoles by 5 Irish by 16  E. Kent. by 10 Seminoles by 6 Irish by 7  Engineers by 4 Seminoles by 16 Irish by 10  Engineers by 9 Seminoles by 5 Irish by 7  Engineers by 3 Seminoles by 10 Irish by 4  Engineers by 17 Seminoles by 20 Irish by 24  
BOWL GAMES: S. Miss. v. McNeese St. (lndep.) Navy v. Houston (Garden State) SMU v. BYU (Holiday) Maryland v. Florida (Tangerine) Ohio St. v. Penn St. (Fiesta) Miss St. v. Nebraska (Sun) Purdue v. Missouri (libertY) Tulane v. Arkansas (Hall of Fame) , S. Carolina v. Pitt (Gator) N. Carolina v. Texas (Biue·Bon.) Baylor v. Alabama (Cotton) Washcngton v. Michigan (Rose) Oklahoma v. Florida St. (Orange) Va. Tech v. Miami. Fla. (Peach) Notre Dame v. Georgia (Sugar)  S. Miss. by 2 Cougars by 7 BYU by 9 Terps by 11 Bucks by 6 Huskers by 21 Tigers by 3 Hogs by 10 Panthers by 1 3 Heels by 9 Tide by 3 Wolves by 24 Sooner• by 2 Hurricanes by 14 Irish by 10  S. Miss. by 15 Cougars bv 10 BYU by 9 Gators by 5 Bucks by 10 Huskers by 11 Boilers by 6 Hogs by 3 Panthers by 5 Horns by 6 Tide by 5 Huskies by 1 Seminoles by 2 Hurricanes by 3 Irish by 8  S. Miss. by 17 Middies by 1 BYU by 4 Gators by 1 Lions by 2 Huskers by 24 Boilers by 12 Hogs by 20 Panthers by 2 Heele by 2 Beers by 4 Wolves by 16 Sooners by 18 Hurricanes by 10 Irish by 48  S. Misa. by 14 Cougars by 8 BYU by 18 Gators by 3 Bucks by 6 Huskers by 1 1 Tigers by 7 Hogs by 4 Panthers by 9 Horns by 10 Tide by 4 Wolves by 2 Sooners by 3 Hurricanes by 12 Irish by 46  S. Miss. by 3 Couga.s by 6 BYU by 4 Gators by 2 Lions by 1 Huskers by 2 Tigers by 10 Hogs by 3 Panthers by 1 Horns by 3 Tide by 14 Huskies by 2 Sooners by 1 Hurricanes by 3 Irish by 13  .. McNeese by 8 Cougars by 13 SMU by 9 Gators by 3 Bucks by 5 Huskers by 18 Boilers by 6 Green Wave by 6 Panthers by 19 Horns by 2 Bears by 3 Wolves by 10 Sooners by 15 Hurricanes by 12 Irish by 21  S. Miss. by 12 Cougars by 9 BYU by 10 Terps by 14 Bucks by 6 Huskers by 8 Tigers by 5 Hogs by 7 Panthers by 11 Heels by 3 Tide by 5 Wolves by 14 Sooners by 4 Hurricanes by 5 Irish by 8  S. Miss. by 21 Cougars by 13 BYU by 7 Gators by 3 Sucks by 7 Huskers by 1 1 Boilers by 7 Hogs by 3. Panthers by 13 Horns by 4 Tide by 3 Wolves by 7 Sooners by 8 Hurricanes by 13 Irish by 10  S. Miss. by 14 Cougars by 10 BYUby12 Terps by 7 Lions by 13 Huskers by 17 Boilers by 7 Hogs by 21 Panthers by 3 Heels by 4 Tide by 9 Wolves by 18 Sooners by 1 Hurricanes by 13 Irish by 39  

The Observer An Annual Features Special ,Friday, December 5, 1980-page~ 13 

*i...-·-[....-·-·-·----·&till 

. 

Jlat JJyrnts 
ristmas? 



r• :1• 
0 I 
l 
l 
t 
l l l 

~ 
r,·.·..·. 
~·J
i' I" 
I. 
~·. 
': 
i. ~ ' 
I ', ;~ 

Five minutes later, I saw her friend, sitting on a couch, his arm slung around the shoulders of another girl. "She must have seen him," I thought "'She probably came in, checking to see ifhe was here, andshe saw him with another girl." I wondered ifshe was off by herself, feeling like hell. 
She was in love with him, I was sure ofthat The wav she looked at him, the way she touched him, . the way she made him touch her, were, all ofthem, the ways ofa woman who has fallen in love. I couldn't tell ifhe loved her. He seemed to enjoy her attention, but it would never have surp~ed me if he had said: "There's nothing serious between us; we're just close friends." He may have been too self-centered to appreciate her deep caring for him. He may have thought he was being generous in accepting her affection. "He's a strange bird," I thought. She 

-~· 
--------~-~------------------------------­
Features Friday, December 5, 1980-page 14  

LETTERS TO ALONELYGOD Episode From. The Gilliad Rev. Robert Griffin was too nice a person to have fallen for You've let her walk with her hand in On December 17, DarbatiusOn.Dec1mber 17, 1979, Darbatius such a strange bird your hand; for important moments of(Secondus) O'Gill, thesecondD.O'G., Secundus will have his first birthday. Eventually, he came to my side ofthe her life, you've let her belong to you.sometimes f.eferred to as D-2, heir to He was borninAdvent; and at times, in room for a smoke. I'm not a match­A dog whimpers, when you leavethe traditions of the epic hero pup his own litde self, he is a regular maker, so I didn't ask questions. Only him behind. A dog's cries, when theO'Gillgamesh, or D-1, is a year old On parable ofIsrael waiting for its freedom. when I figured out that he was with no door is closed between him and you,December 17, the Church sings the When he is chained, for example,-·-""'girl in particular and that his hugs on can suffocate you with guilt. Humanfirst of the Great 0 Antiphons of outside the dining hall, I feel I should the couch were fringe benefits of an beings, left behind, try to keep the hurtAdvent "0 Wisdom, 0 Holy Word of leave him with words ofpromise: "Be unattached evening, did I mention the inside; the effort to be wordless is asGod, you govern all creation with your comforted, be comforted, my puppy;girl who was always with him. • poignant as though they werestrong yet tender care. Come andshow the hour of your deliverance will be whimpering.your people the way to salvation" The "She was bothering me," he said. soon" After what must seem to him distance is infinite from "0 Wisdom" "She was making me a nervouswreck." like four thousands years of waiting, to "0 Gill"; but even the lowliest She came back into Darby's Place when I come to set him free of I reflected on her reducing him to acreature birthed in Pte season of Our again, while we were still talking. She bondage, he frisks about like the basket case. "How?" I saidSaviour's birth can show some of the kept close to the door, trying to get his playful, jumping hills ofJudah at their "I couln't get any work done whilepeople, although unconsciously, a first attention, I think, with the pain on her dance for Messiah. He greets me as she was sitting there," he said "I sentstep on the way leading to salvation. face. Finally, hewentoverandspoketo though I were a visiting god. Prophetsher home." her. In ten seconds, she left, leaving could notbe more joyful.\n singing theShe was alone and lonesome, and I thought ofmydog, DarbyO'GillII, traces of pain on the air as people do songs of Zion than my puppy is whenembarrassed at being See.fl by herself. sitting by my chair as I read, waiting when they've lately wept. He came he sees me, the ender of his exile, theShe had often come into Darby's Place with his eyes for me to play with him. I back to tell me about it. master he has waited for as eagerly ason the arm ofa student boyfriend, but would feel more comfortable if he dreamy old Simeon desiring the desiretonight, she was unattached, looking "She wanted me to walk her home,"were chewing bones. One hates being of the everlaSting hills. around, not wanting to be noticed. IfI h~said. "I can't study when she hangs needed by a creature. Yet the creature But of course I am not his god, buthad asked: "Where's your friend?", it around me. Anyway, I hate it whenhas feelings one cannot ignore, if he only his friend who loves him dearly.would have bothered her; it was endings are messy. This affair ishas allowed himself to be depended Sometimes I will hurt him or neglectobvious that she didn't want to talk. I definitely ended"upon. him; he will be disappointed at notjust watched her drift through the "You know how itis," he said, "when "You never owned a dog," I said. "If having his way. I will be lazy in givingroom, in one door and out the other, somebody's watching you across the you had owned a dog, you would have him food; I will leave him for hourslike a sight-seer restless with a feeling table. She makesyou talk, whetheryou ta!fled him. St. Exupery, in 'The Little without water. When I have been anof not belonging. want to or not. We've run out ofthings  

Pick up a National Enquirer and you'll no doubt see a cover story featuring the predictions of some "world reknown" psychic. Not to be outdone, the Observer offers some astonishing predictions from ·some incredibly ~ccurate seers... 
Alonzo Bonzo who foresaw the election of President Rea_gan in a bowl of clam chowder predicts: 
*·'Deep Throat" will not be 
shown on the Notre Dame 
campus. 
to say." 
You also have to talk to cocker 
spaniels. You talk to them, rub their 
heads, and scratch their ears. Thenyou 
find thema toy to keep them busy until 
you are ready to take them for a walk. 
You don't tell them: "Go away, because 
I'm busy,"; then, getting rid of them, 
go and find another beast to play with, 
in a familiar field where your own pup 
can watch you_ 
"I mustn't judge him," I thought, "because I saw him hugging another girl. I mustn't think it's my business if he got caught in the act of moving around." I couldn't ask him if his intentions were serious. I couldn't tell him: "She's in love with you." All I could say was: "Be careful." Be careful, you lout, whether you love her or not. Be careful, because you've let her need you. You've let her come close to you. 

Pnnce, says that we become responsible for the creatures we tame. Clean breaks are only dimly defensible ifwe leave creatures, tamed to belong to us, to find their own way alone through the pain we cause them in leaving." 
He was ready to brush off my words as schlock, fm sure, but at that moment, Darby O'Gill came trotting over with his mouth full of wool. I don't say it was a sign, but my friend took it as a sign For five minutes, he murmured words to the dog as though they were talking...Darby stoleJanie's hat," he said "I guess I should bring it back to her." 
"That would be nice," I said. By some small miracle of the season, I think it suddenly seemed to him, the time was not propitious for a dean break. Clean breaks are not very loving, and December's chill is the climate when we love the best. 
unreliable master, I hope I will be ashamed and try again. He is sucha fine dog, ,it would be a sin if I should mistreat him. He loves me too much for me to allow him pain. 
We make creatures so vulnerable, when we allow them to love us. 
The Children's St. Nicholas Day Party will be held Saturday, December 6, at eight in the evening in the LaFortune Ballroom. Please come, with a child, or as an adult feeling childrenly. 
Merry Christmas. Darby wants to mention that we never said that we didn't love you. 
Ifyou are in New York over break, please come to see me at St. Joseph's Rectoy, 371 Sixth Ave. (Avenue ofthe Americas), Greenwich Village, 10014. Rectory phone: 212-741-1274; per­sonal phone: 212924-2110. It's a great year for Christmas. May God bless us all and our families. 
Who Needs Jean Dixon? 
*"Knute Rockne, All Amer-­
ican"  will  be  shown  on  the  
Notre Dame campus.  
*Off-campus  crime  will  in­ 

crease so dramatically that a 20 foot high concrete and barbed­wire wall wiJJ have to be built around Notre Dame. Football fans will arrive each Saturday by a massive airlift. 

*After retiring as head football 
coach at Alabama Paul 

"Bear" Bryant wid become director of St. Michael's Laun­dry. In the fall he will be found wandering around campus drawling, "R-r-roll Tide!'· 
*Because of their football per­formance, Notre Dame will be awarded both the Big Ten and the Pacific Ten championship and will play itself to a 10-10 tie in the 1982 Rose Bc·wl. 
Followi!l~ at 1V 
Sanjay Bonjay, who forecasted that Yul Brenner would go bald after he ~onled the actor's pasta, also 
predicts: 
In a surprising move that will shock the basketball world, Digger Phelps will recruit a two foot dwarf named Elmo >Rodriquez. AI McGuire will be 
heard  to  quip,  "That is  the  
shonest  Mexican  I've  ever  
seen."  

•As the price ofgold tops! 2000 an ounce, the leaf on the adminis­tration Building will be re­
sold, dome 

j 
--------------------------------------------------------------~------------------­


Friday, December 5, 1980-page 15




eeken 

\· 
"' 
Catnpus 
• 4: 30 p.m. -seminar, biology, dr. grahm white, galvin aucl 
• 
5:15p.m. -mass, plus supper, bulla shed. 

• 
7,9,11 p.m. -film, kramer vs. kramer, eng. aud. 


'•--•e p.rn. --.:·theatre, "i knock at the door.., wash. hall. 
• 
8 p.m. -; dance, Ia fortune ballroom, spon right to life. 

•9p.m.-nazz, 
rmsatla fortune ballroom. 

• 
11 p.m. -oazz, open stage. 


SATURDA~DECEMBER 
6, 1980 
• 
10 p.m. -boating, sailing club, donahue cup regatta. 

• 
7,9,11 p.m. -film, kr11trter-vs: kramer, eng. aud. 

• 
8 p.m. -theatre, "i knock at the door", wash. hall. 

• 
9 p.m. -nazz, super exciting christmas bash. SUNDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1980 

• 
2 p.m. -meeting, international students and host families, library aucl 


• 3:30, 8:15 p.m. concert, "hodie", nd orchestra and chorus, sacred heart church. 
• 
7 p.m. -film, charlie chaplin, "monsieur verdoux", snite aud. 

• 
7 p.m. -advent ser­vice, a meditation in seven parts, keenan chapel. 

• 
8 p.m. -theatre, "i knock at the door", wash. hall. 


SUNDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1980 
• 7.00 "monsier verdoux" charlie chaplin ftlm festival-annenburg aud, snite gallery $1 
...Laws 
/continuedfrom page 1j 
conjunction with such a program 
to stem the flow of new illegal 
immigrants. 
Some ideas to thwart this flow 
of illegal immigrants are to 
bolster the economic situation in 
the country from which they 
come and to make it impossible 
for them to get a job in the U.S. 
The Commission also believes that the immigration laws should reflect the national interest. Such a provision would be an ongoing committee that would consider the economic and social situation in the U.S. and decide whether to raise or lower the quota of immigrants. The Selective Commission is deciding on a figure between 500,000 to a million annually for the quota. 
The goals that the Commis­sion have in rev1smg the Immigration and NationalityAct will be "the reunification of families, the playing of a responsible role in the world, the strengthening of the country, the reform of our laws to make them clear and equitable, and their firm, steady enforcement." 
Molarity 
WfTl·f 7Hf: NE\J IV~~ DoRM OF'EAJIN{:f IN ~ANfJ'JRY IN£ £VANI ir> BE IN $PE RJR TilE. cmTEsT 




Michael Molinelli 
CDNTE's-rf YE"'.:s, 


Charles M. Schulz 

J-; \· ;• ,,<rr , . \ \ • \ \ ~ ~ • • \ t I • • t .t • • 11 • • t I •
~·~'-• , •• ,,., l\ ' 
\ ~·· .,,,.,,, ... 0 •• 
>: ' ' ' 


ACROSS 27 Tennis 1 Back talk stroke 

5Prlze 28 Dowrong 10 Shortly 29 Eggs14 Stumble 32 Like 15 Mesdames, someTVs 
frequently 37 Certain 16 Volcano alga output 39 Winglike 17 City on 40 Comon the Tiber the cob 18 Ask for 42 Solemnity donations 43 Opponents 20 In the 46 Balconies midst of 49 -theline 22 Husband of 50 Loser a reine to ODE 23 Pontiff's 52 Bywayof cape 53 Getmoney 24 Bea from moocher 59 Increased 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

1=.., •••.,.
-..-n 
10% STUDENT & FACULTY DISCOUNT W/ CURRENT ID 
MICHIANA'S LARGEST DEALER IN READVMADE Be CUSTOM-MADE PICTURE FRAMES 
• 
Phonec277-6617 
52139 u.s. 31 North CIC 
ane-HoH Mil• North of t.lo.-th Vllloge Moll 
Monthly. ':.::':2·w......-.y. S.tur•y 9 to • 
ey ...tl.frltley 9 ..9 
. 

The Daily Crossword 

© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

MASS followed by 
~ supper 
every
FRIDAY at the 

62 Howard of TV 63 Slow, In 
music 64 Is short of cash 67 Philippine 
knife 68 Grasso 69 Norwegian 
dramatist 70 Employs 71 Healthy 72 Threadbare 73 Parched 
DOWN 1 lnsignifl· 
cant thing 2 Fragrance 3-says 4 Exhausted 5 Elec. unit 6 Fit for 
attire 
7 Deliberate fire­setting 
8 Dwell 
9 Clock· setting letters 
10 Watchful 11 Capital of 
Okinawa 12 Racetrack 13 Archibald 19 Beautiful 
woman 
21 Festive 25 Mischief 26 California 
fort 29 Oftheear 30 Ballot 31 Iowa city 32 Separate 33 Hodge· 
podge 34 Get excited 35 Musical 
syllable 36 Dine 38 Macaw 41 Exacted 
satisfac· 
tion 44 Praises 45 Collection 47 Tease 48 Track 51 Kind of 
light 53 Use a bike 54 Domicile 55 No-nos 56 Gnawed 
away 57 Coquet 58 Snare 59 Once 
again 60 Printing 
direction 61 Valley 65 God: Lat. 66 Hive 
stuff: abbr. 

~-;~--·?·.~.-----------------------·---------·-~­
The Observer Friday, December 5, 1980 -page 16 
~:. Defensive stalwart 
J 


Hankerd: soft-spoken, unsung 
By Michael Ortman Since his sophomore season, Who doesn't. In that never-to­'l Associate Spor'ts Editor Hankerd has been a fixture in the be-forgotten classic, the Irish trenches for the Irish, intimidat­staged a patented miracle come­There are those who do their ing opposing passers and sending back' in the game's waning
! 
talking in the locker room and in opposing backs scampering moments, only to have a con­the headlines. And then thereare toward the sidelines. troversial call on a supposed Paul guys like John Hankerd. The Hankerd years at Notre McDonald fumble, called an 
During the national champion­Dame have featured teams with incomplete pass. The Trojans ship campaign of 1977, Hankerd truly great tailbacks and line­kicked the game-winning field was one ofonly four freshmen to backers. As a result, there hasn't goal moments later for the 27-25 dress for every game (Tim been an abundance of room in victory. Huffman, Dick Boushka andJim the minds of the media for not­"I remember that game really 
well," rPc:lll~ Hankerd. "I
Stone were the others). He played so-flashy performer'i like 
some, that year, as a special­Hankerd. Yet that .has. never especially remember Jeff Weston teamer and backup linebacker. bothered the Dillon Hall resident that day. He gave his all-every­With a severe :o~hortnge in man­in the least. thing he had. He was exhausted 
_f5<mer at defensive end the "I'm just happy to be starting afterwards-disappointed too." following year (after Ross on such a great team as we have Browner and Willie Fry graduated this year," says the 6-4, 245-pound Hankerd admits that he looked and Scott Zettek went down with native ofJackson, Mich., with all up toWeston and Mike Calhoun a knee injury), Hankerd was sincerity. ''I'm really tickled this during his first two years here. "I forced into duty at that position, · year," he adds with a grin. "We learned a lot from them, both on a transition he made quietly and weren't that good last year, and and off the field," he says. And 
effectively. we weren't supposed to be that it's little wonder that Hankerd's good this year. But now, look at career at Notre Dame has been 
the position we're in." much like theirs-nothing Yea, look at the position spectacular but very effective. they're in. A win tomorrow in As a defensive end, however,

Mary D's troops aim for first win 
Los Angeles and Hankerd and his Hankerd's responsibilni'1~ ....~aye teammates will be just one step been more along the lines of away from their second national stringing out pitch sweeps and 
championship in four years. attacking the passer than of
By Kelly Sullivan eight rebounds per outing as Forbes is getting ready to Women's Sports Editor well. make her Notre Dame debut. The USC game is a special one stopping the run. 
Also averaging in double The 5-10 guard has been side­for Hankerd, especially, because Hankerd's · highest tribute Mary DiStanislao's crew is still figures for Notre Dame is lined with a dislocation in her it will be his last regular season probably goes to Weston. "I only hope and wish that I can give as
in search ofits first victory ofthe sophomore forward Shari kneecap, but is expected to enter contest in the green and gold. young season After experiencing Matvey with a 10 ppg. mark. the line-up after Christmas But there is more to it than just a much in L.A. as Jeff did." As for Hankerd's prognostic­
defeat in each ofits two previous Despite the team's disappoint­break. finale. It's USC! 
tomorrow-"I think
outings, Notre Dame's women's ing losses, DiStanislao has been "Year in and year out, this is ation for our biggest rivalry," he exclaims. they're going to have to pass
basketball team will get another pleased with the progress made against us. Ifwe have a good pass
opportunity to put a notch on . by her veteran players. "Remember the last time we 
were out there?" rush, say four or five sacks, wethe left side ofits won-loss ledger ! "Tricia McManus, Shari can win."
when it hosts Concordia Matvey, and Missy Conboy are (Nebraska) Saturday afternoon really coming around for us at at 4 p.m. for anyone not forward, and that's very interested in the Southern Cal­important to our success," said Notre Dame football showdown. the first year coach. 
DiStanislao is anxious to see 
The Bulldogs are a first time more of her two scholarshipopponent of the Irish, returning players, freshmen]enny Klauke two starters offlast season's 7-17 and Mary Joan Forbes. 
campaign. The women to watch Klauke, a 5-91/2 guard out ofwill be 5-8 guard Susan Cross. 
Glenview, Ill., has chipped inaveraging 12.2 points per con­i seven and six points, respec­test, and 5-6 guard Cindy Balzun, . tively, in each of her first two
l\" scoring at a 10 ppg. clip. 
~· 
1 collegiate contests.

Sophomore Jan Crowe 
"I think onceJenny gets a fewcontinues to pace Notre Dame games under her belt she'lloffensively, leading her teamates become more and more consis­
in the scoring department after 
tent, and we'll get a good idea ofthe first two games. The 6-0 just how talented she is," notes
forward is scoring ata 15.5 points 1 Irishfootball cotu·h Dt111 Del'ine(ahol'e} u·tflleadl)ir troop.r i11to hattle(or their{intiI re((tdar Jet/Son contest
i DiStanislao.

per game average, while grabbing tomorrou• tt/tt'I'IIIJIJII i11 l.o.r A flgde.r. !Jcl'ifle recalls tits Jir'yearr •II NIJtrc Dtll~ll' 011 p~ 1o . 
. . . Rivalry ... Trojans 
104 yards against the tough Trojan defense, giving up 96.9 ypg. while the 
famtif!Ned from Pttge 9/
fCollfilllledfrom page 9/ defense, he will have completed his first Irish are right behind, allowing only 102 two weeks and ourunbeaten record wil be 1000 yard season. yards a game. Carter, Stone's roommate and a fellow Each team is led by a young quarter­
Robinson. "I think our team is stimulated all the incentive they need." 
by the turn of events." Without doubt, this will be one of the Washington resident (he hails from back. Freshman Blair Kiel heads the Irish most emotional games that the Irish have Tacoma), also has a chance to finish with attack, the first freshman to do so since 
The Irish need no extra incentive when played all year, but once the contest 1000 yards on the season. The the early 1950's. He has completed 48 of playing USC. The sight of those scarlet­begins, the ability to execute will sophomore tailb"ick's current total of780 119 passes thus far for 5 31 yards. USC is and-gold uniforms has always been determine who the winner will be. For is second only to-Stone's, and with two led by sophomore Scott Tinsley, who enough to inject Devine's charges with both teams, that execution will be most games remaining to gain the necessary made his first start of the season against 
timmeasurable intensitv. important in the offensive department, as 220 yards, Carter figures to join Stone as UCLA. In that game, he threw for 146 ,;Last vear was the first time I personally both teams depend predominatly on the part of the only pair of backs in Irish yards and one touchdown, while played ,ig(linst Southern Cal," relates rush. The key position here is tailback, for history to gain 1000 yards in the same compiling 15 completions in 27 attempts. senior captain John Scully. "It was Marcus Allen of USC and Phil Carter and season. 
definitelv the biggest moment in my Jim Stone of Notre Dame have provided Both Stone and Carter should see "I don't think there's any question that sports career. There's nothing like a the bulk ofthe offense for their respective plenty of action tomorrow for Devine, Tinsley will be a good quarterback, 
Notre Dame-USC game when it comes to teams throughout this 1980 season. who has called their numbers on more though right now his inexperience is the 
excitt>mtnt. Every year since I've been Allen, a junior from San Diego, Cal., is than 60 percent ofNotre Dame's rushing thing hampering him," says Devine. "But 
here, the games have always been closer currently the nation's second leading plays. The sophomore Carter will get the starting the one game against a team like than the score indicated." rusher with 1,563 yards and 14 touch­starting nod. UCLA probably will improve his con­downs. He entered the UCLA game two Many expect a low score in tomorrow's fidence at least 50 percent."
The biggest, most vivid memories I 
weeks ago as the country's rushing leader, contest, since both teams have very stingy Tomorrow's game will undoubtedly be
have about football are the USC games, but was held to 72 yards by the Bruins defensive units. Notre Dame currently listed by many as one ofthe classics in thisnotes tight end Nick Vehr. "It's a before leaving the game with a shoulder ranks fourth in the nation in scoring great series that dates back to 1926. Asdifferent kind of game." 
injury. Due to a current eye injury, Allen defense, giving up an average of only 9.1 stated earlier, there is a bit of history in "Coming into the locker room after we / is expected to miss tomorrow's game. points a game. USC also is among the this series which the Irish would like to 
lost out there in '78 had a real impact on Stone is presently the leading Irish country's leaders in that department, keep from being repeated. However, me," he noted, about the 27-25 rusher, having amassed 896 yards thus far giving up an average of 13.1 ppg. there is also an ironic bit ofhistory which heartbreaker the Irish dropped to their this season. His seven touchdowns make Notre Dame also ranks fourth in total they probably wouldn't mind see fiercest enemy. :'The coachers and the him the leader in that offensive catagory defense, allowing an average of 213.3 happening again. Notre Dame has won 
players all broke down. Seeing how much 1 as well. A senior from Seattle, Wash., yards per contest, while USC is ninth, only three of the last 14 ga1.1es of this a loss like that meant was really Stone will be playing in his last regular giving up 245.7 ypg. The strength ofeach series. In each ofthose three seasons, they something. I would say that was my first 1 season game in a Notre Dame uniform ofthese two defenses lies in their ability to have gone on to capture the national championship.
real taste of Notre Dame football." tomorrow, and should he manage to gain stop the run. USC is fifth in rushing 


The Observer Friday, D,ecember 5, 1980-page 17 
&>phomoresensation 
Carter spearheads Irish, attack 
By Mike McMa1111s Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame football team that invades the Los Angeles Coliseum Saturday afternoon to play USC will be a very different one than most pre­season "experts" had forecast. The Irish stand at 9-0-1 on the season and have a Sugar Bowl showdown with Georgia in the not too distant future. To be sure, the 1980 Irish have come a long way since the grueling two­a-day practices in late August when /Sports Illustrated exclud­ed them from a spot in their Top 
25. The defense, aseveryonewho has seen a game this year knows, has been outstanding. To win as Notre Dame has, though, ittakes points on the scoreboard. And the Irish offense has been no slouch in this department, thanks to one of the best ground games in the country and tail­back Phil Carter. 
Carter, a 5-10, 193 pound sophomore speedster, has team-· ed with roommate Jim Stone to do what many said couldn't be done; fill the shoes vacated by Vagas Ferguson. 
"I guess you could say the running game has been the bread-and-butter part of our attack this year," said Irish head coach Dan Devine. 
• Carter started the season in fine fashion, running for more than 100 yards in each ofthe first two games and then shredding the Michigan State defense for 254 more yards, including a 54­yard jaunt, his longest of the 
~on. 
· But every silver lining has a dark cloud and for Phil Carter it appeared in the form of a severe thigh bruise that confined him better than any defense he faced. The injury happened on his last carry against Michigan State when he had actually broken the Notre Dame single game rushing record, but was thrown for a three-yard loss, erasing his 257­yard total from the record books and his presence in the starting lineup for five games. 
Carter returned in time to carry the ball seven tin:tes against Georgia Tech and then re-enteft!d the national spotlight by starting against Alabama a week later, gaining 84 tough yards and hurdling two yards for the game's only touchdown. Carter bounced back into the 1 00-yard column with 181 yards vs. Air Force two weeks ago and is hoping to do just as well against USC tommorrow. 
"We just want to go out and take it to them ... show them we are a better team. The key will be ifour line can continue to do the great job they have been doing," Carter remarked 
It is a lot easier for a lineman to do a great job when blocking for a running back like Phil Carter, whose greatest asset seems to be his ability to quickly hit any hole that is open, no matter how small. Once through the line, Carter resembles a stray bullet, ricocheting off anything in his path until he finally embeds himself in a couple of defensive backs. 
Phil Carter hails from the Pacific Northwest, where he played his prep football at Woodrow Wilson High School in Tacoma, Washington as well as grappling for the wrestling team and running relays for the track team. He was a Prep All-American and therefore heavily recruited to play college football, but Phil realizes there is life beyond football. 
..I chose Notre Dame because they had more to offer than just athletics and they were the most honest with me," he said. 
Carter's life has changed con­siderably during the paSt two years, as he has moved from high school football to the pressures of performing at Notre Dame and following in the footsteps of numerous fabled ru~ng backs. 
members ofthe team. "Everyone on the team is really close," he said, "Not just the running backs, for example, but I mean the seniors are close to the freshmen and no one feels like they're better than anyone else. That's why we're winning, because we stick together and when it comes down to the end you have to be together as a team.'' 
One factor that seems to have pulled the team even closer together is the resignation of 
''We just wanttogoout andtake ittothem... showthem we are the better team'' 
Dan Devine come January 1st.
"Basically it is the same game," 
"We'd really like to send him out
Carter remarked, "But everyone 
with the best season he could 
is so fast now! In high school I felt 
possibly have," Carter said.
I was a lot faster than everybody, 
"We're trying to do our best for
but now I'm just an average 
him because we know that he is 
person because everybody's as doing his best for us."
fast as I am." 
If the Irish do their best for Sophomore tat/back Phil Carter Phil Carter feels much of the Dan Devine tommorrow after­11eeds 220 yards to go over the 1,000 
success the 1980 Fighting Irish noon, he should be a very happy mark for the 1980 season. fphoto by 
john Macorj
have encountered is due to the man on the plam· ·i~e back from closeness that exists between all Los Angeles toni i 11u1 row night. 

pac\tage 


~~.= 

$43.25* 
If you're Sugar Bowl bound, you're bound to love our special Sugar; Bowl package: 
•A 
beautiful deluxe room with a view of the Gulf or our tropical pool. 

•A 
bottle of champagne when you arrive. 

•Prime 
Rib or Seafood a Ia Hilton in the elegant Rib Royal. '~-~ 

•After 
dinner; dance the night away in the Le Chic Lounge. We'll party till dawn New Year's Eve. 

• 
The next morning, we'll treat you to a continental breakfast in bed, including a famous "Hilton Hammer·~ 


You'll love the Biloxi Hilton, so if you want to stay over for the weekend, we under­stand. Extra nights are only $21.50 per person, room only. 
·eased on per person. double occupancy 
Taxes and gratUitoes not 1ncluded A 
depoSit IS requ1red w1th all reservatoons 
Regular room rates $50 Single. $56 double 

Service 1-800-543-7222 
· 

WeVegot 


your rooms. 
If you're lucky enough arm and a leg. 
to have Sugar Bowl We've got twenty-six tickets but can't find a miles of sugar white room in New Orleans, beaches. Fresh seafood. 
stop wonying. We've got Championship golf plenty of rooms on the courses. And New Year's ·Mississippi Gulf Coast Eve parties that last till 
We're only sixty miles dawn. from New Orleans -a So combine your straight shot into the Sugar Bowl holiday with Superdome on New a vacation on the Year's Day. And a room Mississippi Gulf Coast here won't cost you an We're warming up a 
welcome just for you. 


' 

~ ~ I
.i . 


"i. I I
'if II 
~·,, ' ~I' 
I)}' 
-~ 
. " 
>; 

'' 
r I 
j ' l 
' I 
i ( 
j 
. ! 
• J . ' 
i 1 
; I ) ! 
I ' 
I I 
~ 
' 
i 
: j 

The Observer Friday, December 5, 1980-page 18 
Irish coach Digger Phe/pJ bombardJ his team ~ith instru.dion.r on the
WakeUp! 

bench duri11g last night's game against TCU (p!Joto by ]o!Jn Mawr/ 
... Belles 
(continued from page 19/ 

exchanged the lead constantly throughout the first half, and neither squad was up by more than six at anytime. St. Mary's held a five-point margin at the half, 36-31. The Belles extended that lead to ten early in the second half, but Valpo's power­ful defense caused turnovers and reduced the margin to two, 54-52, with less than two minutes to play. Following a time-out, SMC executed a patient offense and went on to the seven-point victory. 
"The key to the win was our rebounding edge," declared Dallessio. "I told the girls before the game to hit the boards, and we proceeded to out rebound Valpo, 47-24. Our bench did a good back-up job as well, especially freshmen Lisa Shirz and Gretchen Meyer." 
0 
p'~ 

at the Market 
1107 Decatur Street New Orleans, La. -Breakfast Anytime 
Maureen King paced the Belles with twenty points and eleven rebounds, followed by Ann Armstrong with seventeen points and six assists. Mary Pat Sittlington pulled down eleven 
rebounds, and Tracy Hargreaves added seven assists. Glenda Snyder wwas high scorer for Valparaiso with eighteen. 

-Super Omelets, Burgers, Ribs -Complete Meals Anytime -­-Lovely Patio Dining -­
-
•; )'t· :,;... 
-

' '*' 
,.~ 

' :· tl·FIG1iTING ~~~~~ 
~ 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-

GO IRISH-BEAT GEORGIA! 
• • • Los Angeles 
(continuedfrom page 20} 

no plans to do it this weekend. They'll be ready for us, and it will take a super effort on our part to win the game." 
The Trojans will be without the services of starting senior quarterback Gordon Adams as well as junior tailback Marcus Allen who picked up right where 1979 Reisman Trophy winner Charles White left off. Allen ran up 1,563 yards through the UCLA contest, but an injury to 
his left eye should force him to ============ 
the sidelines for tomorrow's p• ldh 
ga;:;:~nwhile, the Irish should field the same lineup that they showed iust two weeks ago against Air Force. Freshman quarterback Blair Keil will knock heads with another youngster in the Trojan back­field, sophomore quarterback Scott Tinsley, who will sub for 
Adams. 

"They are good, and we are good," smiled Devine as he returned to his seat. "AndI think the winner will be -" 
Devine was unabie to finish his prediction because the pilot interupted with a description of the Wallahoochie River that passed just below. 
The team practiced at Los Angeles Valley Junior College yesterday afternoon, and will work out at the Los Angeles Coliseum today. Tonight the team will be treated to a special preview showing of ..Flash Gordon" at Universal Studios. 
But the chain ofevents will not end with tomorrow's showdown. On Sunday, the Irish will be the guests of Disneyland in nearby Anaheim. Then on Monday morning, the team will return to Universal Studios for breakfast and a Studio tour. All-American seniors Scott Zettek and Scully. may have to miss the tour, however. They'll be tied up with the filming of the Bob Hope Christmas Special 
The Irish finally will return to South Bend Monday evening, with the buses scheduled to arrive at the main circle a little after 9 p.m. 
1e QUSe 
t }
0 c ose 

University plans call for tearing down the old Fieldhouse and leaving an open area in its place. According to the "master plan" of the University, "the fieldhouse would logically be torn down in the fall of 1982,.,. a'Ccording to Donald Dedrick, Director of the Physical Plant. "The basic con­ception from the administration is foi: that to be an open area, , said Paul Riehle, student body 
president. "The Fieldhouse is structurally sound," said Dedrick, "but obviously there has been little maintenance because the University does not envision having the fieldhouse stay." The Art Department, which now occupies the Fieldhouse, will move toNieuwland Science Hall which will beavailable because of the completion of the Stepan Science Center in December of 1981. -The Observer 
Jim Monaghan Welcomes 
THE FIGHTING IRISH OF NOTRE DAMEott 
J 

To New Orleans for ~ ry\f~ 
SUGAR BOWL '81 ~ J 
~~ I" 

DO IT ON DECATUR STREET 
The Best Local Bars: -Molly's at the Market 1107 Decatur -Bonaparte's Retreat (Corby's South) 1 007 Decatur Street -Backstage Bar (The Irish Inn) 1109 Decatur Street -The Abbey 1123 Decatur Street 
.· ' 

.~e)\VL HEADQUARTER\ 
~.. 
~ 





~~()f4tSclJ==t:==i=~~~S========~===================Fr=id=a=y,=D=e=c=em==be=r=5=,=19=8=o~==p=ag=e=1~9
by The Obsert·er and The Auociated Prnr 
Qnlv 19~ ~ugar Bowlticket reservations 
remamed 1or dtstnbutlOn to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students when the ACC ticket windows opened this morning. The second floor box office ofthe ACC will be open today from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Upon reporting to the window, students will complete an application with their name, identification umber and class year. Tickets cost $1 7 and checs should be made payabl~ to the Notre Dame Sugar Bowl. A student may present a maxtmum of two ID cards and applications. Since tickets allocated ~o students are intended for their personal use, students wtll receive the actual ticket in New Orleans. Tickets will be distributed on the third floor Convention Offices of the New Orleans Hilton, Poydras at the Mississippi River, New Orleans, La., 70140. Pickup times are: Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, Dec. 29, 30 and 31, 10-12 a.m. and 2-5 p.m. each day; Thursday, Jan. I, 9-12 a.m. Students wishing to sit together, must present their respective IDs together. Each s~udent who ordered a ticket is responsible for picking up that ttcket. No exception to this procedure will be permitted. All sales are final. There are no refunds. 
Winningwaysfor Belles' hoops 
By David Wtlson Sports Writer 
The St. Mary's basketball team continued its winning ways Wednesday night with a strong 65-57 victory over Valparaiso, and now boasts an undefeated 2-0 record going into tonight's contest against Franklin College. The Belles face Tri-State University tomorrow afternoon as well. · 
The Franklin and Tri-State games are part of the Goshen basketball tournament and will · be the first away from home for the Belles this season. Franklin defends the Indiana state title this year, but St. Mary's coach 
Jerry Dallessio shows no con­cern. 
"The game will be tough, no doubt," he admitted, "But my team is certainly up forit. We're getting smarterall the time, and honestly, if we lose, I'd . be surprised ifitwere by more than ten points." 
Dallessio's confidence can be attributed to the Belles' early season victories. St. Mary's 

easily defeated Kalamazoo in 
the season opener last Friday, 
and was victorious again over 
Valparaiso Wednesday. 
Dallessio sees improvement 
already, and is happy with his 
most recent win. 

"We were patient on offense, and we got the ball inside a lot " he sat"d. "Itwas a tough-game' but I think we showed a lot of poise." 
The game with the Crusaders was close as well. Both teams 
-

( CO!lfifllm/ Ul/ pa/{e 18/ 
-

Friday, December 5, 1980-page 20 
..... 
~­
\• 
l: it 
if 
L;

~­~ l 
l. 


~ 
I' 

II : 
!
~ 
i 
1 r 
I 
1:
'
I!; 


I 
t 
ji
J. 
'\
[I 


;! ! : i\ 
!: I' :{ 



,. 
I I; 



SRorts 
~featTCU 

Irishl\larlll up for Indiana with Frogs 
by Mic/)tle/ Olenik Sports Wrrter 
It wasn't Notre Dame's most impressive win in recent years, but Irish coach Digger Phelps took advantage of his team's 79­63 win over the TCU Horned Frogs by experimenting with some new combinations and offen~es in preparation for next week's clash with Big Ten power Indiana. 
Forward Kelly Tripucka paced the Irish for the second consecu­tive game by connecting for 22 points and pulling down 10 rebounds in his best all-around effort of the young season. Tripucka's efforts were bolstered by fellow starters Orlando Woolridge andJoe Kleine, who chipped in 19 and 11 points respectively as the front line took advantage of Notre Dame's decided edge in height and overall strength.· 
Phelps was impressed with TCU, as they played a ·determined game from start to finish. "I thoughtTCU had theirdiscipline going very well. They realJy sagged on us in the second half, taking away the inside game we had in the first half. Offensively, I thought they moved the ball well and did what they had to do." 
The Irish seemed to stake claim to the lane throughout the open­ing half, as they scored the bulk of their points on variations of tip-ins' and short jumpers. One person that looked especially comfortable in the middle was Woolridge, who slammed home five buckets in crowd pleasing fashion. He ended the half with 15 points, showing increasing confidence since returning to his natural position on Phelps' front line. 
Despite the bright perfor­mances from his two starting forwards, Phelps seemed most pleased with the play of sopho­more center Tim Andree. 
"I think this was Tim's best game under control here at 

=========================== with situations on the court 
leers await Circle 
By Brian Beglane Sports Writer 
A .500 record by Christmas break? 
TheNotre Dame hockey team continues its quest for that mark tonight and tomorrow evening when non-league foe Illinois­Chicago Circle pays a visit to the Athletic and Convocation Center (7:30 p.m. faceoff both nights, and plenty of tickets are available). 
The Irish, 6-9-0 overall and tied for seventh in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association witha4-7-0 record, snapped a 10­game home losing streak and a five-game losing skein this season with a 4-3 overtime triumph over ¥ichigan State Wednesday. 
"It wasn't the prettiest win we have ever had," said Irish coach Lefty ·Smith, "But it was a win. That was sure a reliefafter going so long at home without a victory. 
"Now it is a matter of con­
tinued improvement. We moved 
the puck a little better in both 
zones Wednesday night and that 
was a little encouraging. But we 
still have a way to go." 
The Circle, a Division II independent, will enter the Central Collegiate Hockey Association next year on a probationary basis when it moves to the Division I level. Coach John Kantarski's club brings a 3-5-0 record into the series after swe{:ping Wisconsin­River Falls last weekend, 7-6 in overtime and 6-5. 
"The Circle is a fast growing program," said Smith. "They are building a beautiful facility to play in next year and we are very glad to see they will be joining the CCHA next year along with 
,
us. 
The UICC Pavilion will seat 
8,800 for hockey and will · 
become the largest collegiate 
hockey arena inthe countryonce 
Circle moves in next season. The 
Irish defeated UICC, 8-1, last 
season in the first-ever meeting 
between the two teams. 

--~~··"--~~-----~-------........------­
"We have better talent and much greater depth this year than last," said Kantarski. The Circle finished second in the NCAA Division II national championship last season. 
Junior Ken Mcintyre leads UNCC in scoring and is followed by seniors Rob Feenie and John Uveges. Two sophomores, Rich Blakey and Gerry Vagnon, have been splitting the goaltending duties. 
Three playersare tiedfor a lead in Notre Dame scoring. Junior Jeff Logan and sophomores Rex Bellomy and Kirt Bjork all picked up one point in the Michigan State game and total 
15. Bjork and Bill Rothstein lead in goal scoring with eight each. 
After this weekend's series, the Irish complete the first halfofthe season with a single game next Friday against Michigan State. This second encounter completes the two-game series, which was split due to a Spartan exam conflict. 

Rainy day greets Irish in California 
By Beth Huflman Sports Editor 
LOS ANGELES-The Notre Dame football team went on its way to play the most important game of the-1980 season yesterday. 
But you would have never known it. The journey began in the sub­freezing climate of South Bend 
and ended seven hours later here in the lobby of the Sheraton Universal Hotel where the weather was quite a bit warmer, but no more pleasant. Southern California greeted the 9-0-1 Irish with the first rainy day this southwestern sun-mecca has experienced in 107 days. But the Notre Dame. He gave us nine good minutes." 
In that short duration of time, Andree scored six points, grabbed four rebounds and came up with two steals. His inspired play was well appreciated by the crowd as well as his coach, as the Farmington, Mich. native re­ceived a deservedly loud ovation when he left the court for the last time. 
The second half was more subdued than the first, due mostly to TCU's effective zone defense that clogged up the 

. middle and kept the Irish in a more ball control offense. Notre Dame repeatedly worked the ball around the perimeter for long stretches of play in an effort to free someone for an easy layup. The strategy was employed by Phelps to give his team a chance to work on the new type of offense for use in future games of more consequence. 
"Rather than do it in practice, we were trying to run it in a game situation. We want to experiment 
when we have a big lead." 
Although somewhat unpop­ular with the crowd, the offense seemed to takeshapeas the game wound down, as the Irish in­creased an 11 point lead with two minutes remaining to 16 by game's end. 

After the game, TCU coach Jim Killingsworth · related his views of Notre Dame's style. 
"I knew they would be big and strong. I also knew we would have a lot of difficulty trying to control the boards. Our biggest problem was letting the ball get inside too much in the first hal( There was nothing we could do once they got the ball inside." 
The Horned Frogs were paced by hot-shooting Darrel Browder, whose unique jumpshot enter­tained the crowd for 14 points, most of which came from the outside. 
Overall, it was a good tuneup for next Tuesday's IU showdown, as the Irish front line showed it can play the physical game to be encountered when Bobby Knight's Hoosiers come to town. 
The 2-1 Irish continue their homestand with a 1:30 p.m. tipoff this Saturday against Cal Poly-Pomona. 
precipitation certainly didn't dampen Irish spirits a bit. 
For the first time this season the Notre Dame team and coaches were joined by their injured teammates, cheerleaders, campus media representatives and over 100 Irish boosters on the chartered 
DC-8. · 
The 2,500-mile odyssey was highlighted by such frivolities as 
the world's first 6-5, 255-pound stewardess (with a mustache no less), all-American captain John Scully, pressed into service by a pile of empty breakfast trays, who helped the United flight crew by toting his row's refuse to the galley. 
Even freshman quarterback 


HOUSTON (AP)-Toni Fritsch redeemed himself with second half field goals of 3 7 and 3 3 as the HoustonOilersscored a 6-0 NFL victory over turnover­prone Pittsburgh last night and all but wrote an end to the playoff hopes of the defending champion Steelers. 
Pittsburgh, giving the ball away five costly times-three on Terry Bradshaw interceptions and two on Franco Harris fumbles-fell to 8-6, as their hopes of a fifth Super Bowl ring ("One for the Thumb") were virtually crushed by the Oilers swarming defense. 
Houston has lost the last two American Conference cham­pionship games to the Steelers 
Blair Kiel was forced into duty passing Cokes instead of foot­ball's and appologizing when the cabin's Tab supply was fourth~ and-short. 
Although Californians by residense, the flight crew managed to absorb some Irish spirit dis­playing a variety of rah-rah paraphernalia from top-t<rtow by flight's end 
Notonly was the plane's pilota frustrated tour guide who in­sisted oninterupting the popular in-flight music channels with regular reports ofwhat lay below the clouds, but his stand-up comedy act was received with as much acclaim as frost bite. 
The flight was notfilled with all fun and games, though, as Irish and after knocking on the door twice had vowed to kick it in this year. The Oilers raised their record to 9-5, one-half game behind AFC Central Division leading Cleveland. 
The shutout was the first absorbed by the Steelers since, Sept. 29, 1974, when Ken Stabler, one of the engineers of last night's triumph, guided his former team, the Oakland Raiders, to a 17-0 victory. 
It was Houston defensive back Mike Reinfeldt's first of two interceptions that killed the Steelers' only serious touchdown chance of the game and set in motion the third quarter drive that was culminated by the only points the Oilers needed. 
coaches talked strategy, handed out play-review sheets and con­ducted some business as ifno one else were aboard. 
Even Dan Devine filtered through autograph seeking boosters and restless players in the isles, on his way to his wife 
Jo's designated seat. "They're good Their very good," said Devine when pressed to com­ment on tomorrow's opponent. The Trojans are a disappointing 7-2-1 this season after succesive losses toWashington(20-1 0) and UCLA (20-17) in their lastgame. 
"Southern Cal doesn't lose three-straight very often," Devine said "I'm sure they have 
{continued on page 18} 




