p • l' 
'In loco parentis '-Page 6
' ' ' 

VOL. XIV, NO. 89 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1980 
~D serves few of FLOC Khomeini proposed ban items empowers 
by Tim Vercelotti ''I think that it is reasonable Campaign StaffReporter for FLOC to ask the foodsales to 

Bani-Sadr 
go along with it. If the None of the products that fall : referendum passes, it means 
under the proposed FLOC ban ' (AP) -Iran's Ayatollah
that there is going to be support 
of -the Ruhollah Khomeini turned over
are served in either from the halls, and they will put
dining halls, according to Bro. his post as cor:nmander-in-chief
pressure on the food sales,''
Keran Ryan, Vice President for of the armed forces to President
McDonnell commented. 
Business affairs. Ryan recently Abolhassan Bani-Sadr yester­
Lee Ann McLaughlin, food 
informed the FLOC group of his day, stirring speculation that
sales manager at Breen-Phillips 
findings. · troops might be moved into the
shared McDonnell's senti­
Anne Huber, a spokeswoman U.S. Embassy in Tehran to
ments. "I would have to go
for the group, was not surprised replace militants holding the
along with the ban. Some 
by this announcement. "We American hostages there.
people will be mad if I didn't,"
expected the quantity -of pro­Tehran Radio, announcing
she said. 
ducts to be small, if any at all, .. Bani-Sadr' s strengthened
McLaughlin explained that 
Huber commented. authority, quoted the ailing
during last year's Nestle boy­
Huber went on to point out 79-year-old Khomeini as saying
cott, residents of Breen-Phillips
that the ban is not meant to hurt the appointment was aimed at
became upset when she tried to 
the companies economically; "consolidating power in Iran at
sell her remaining stock of 
instead, it is meant to be a this critical moment.''
Nestle products instead of re­
public statement. The president has been more
moving them from the shelves 
The deli in the Huddle is the moderate in his stand against
immediately.
only place that would be affect­the United States than have the 
Angela Tacco, director of 
ed by the ban. Yesterday, The militants, who have steadily
food sales at Lewis, expressed a 
Observer learned that Ryan has insisted they would not release
different point of view, saying
agreed not to sell Campbell's or some 50 Americans from the
that she would not support the 
Libby's products in the deli, embassy until the deposed shah
ban. 
provided that the items are not is returned to answer charges of
"It should be left up to each 
under contract. corruption.
person, no one should be In a related development Fr. forced to boycott something,'' Since his election Bani-Sadr 
John Van Wolvlear, vice-pres­Tacco said. has spoken out strongly against ident for Student Affairs, met the militants' independent
The objects of the ban are the 
recently with the members of Campbell's and Libby's com-Fr. Bill Toohey, director of Campus Ministry, spoke out power. His new job should give the Farm Labor Organizing against the draft last night. See story below. r,photo by Mike him the muscle to deal with the
[continued on page 4]

Committee support group to Btgley] crisis at the embassy, which the correct the wordtng on petitions militants took over Nov. 4. that the group was circulating. Despitepre-warclimate An indication the militants 
"A total university ban" was were softening their stand came the phrase in question. Van in a report from the official Wolvlear felt the word "total" Yugoslav news agency Tanjug.

Toohey condemns registration 
would include not only under­It said a statement yesterday graduates, but the faculty and by Bridget Berry Toohey commended ''per­graphically described ''the from the militants was for the employees of the university. ceptive students who are be­brainwashing" process he was first time not explicit in de­According to Van Wolvlear, the ''National hysteria is very ginning to question the relia­put through in training and mands the shah be returned ban only includes the student helpful in an election year,'' Fr: bility of information provided then told ofhis role as Company before the release. Tanjug did 
b_£.dy. Bill Toohey, director of Campus by an encumbant President. ~du not elaborate, but it quoted the Ministry, told an audience of He said the resentment of ''After the mortification militants as saying they had
Campus Campaign '80 
approximately 150 last night in students who saw themselves process," Toohey said, "which neither accepted nor rejected 
"There are some areas over Washington Hall. Toohey con­as "pawns used for Carter's ts an attack on self image, we'd the international commission demned the draft registration reelection'' is justified. Toohey work on the Theory of the being set up to investigate the
which I have no control. I could 
as a political strategy to be concluded by telling of his own [continued on page 9]
not implement a ban totally. I [~ontinued on page 8]
experienct" as a Marine. He
cannot speak for the employ­morally questioned. Toohey 
ees," Van Wolvlear stated. and ] ohn Yoder, professor of Instead, the petitions now Theology, spoke last night on read: "I support a university the Church and Conscientious 
Court rulesfor funded abortions
ban of all Campbell's and objection in the second night of 
Libby's products ... " The word a four-night series on the draft. Toohey identified three WASHINGTON (AP) -The Supreme Court abortion available only to women who are the
change does not invalidate the 
crucial problems associated yesterday ordered the federal government to pay victims ofrape or incest. Congress first imposed more than 1,700 signatures that with President Carter's recent for most abortions wanted by women on welfare the restriction in 1976, and has passed stmilari:he group has collected. 
call for armed services regi­-at least until the court decides the versions of it since then.
Van Wolvlear explained that 
1 
the proposed ban will not stration. emotion-laden issue later this year. Hyde condemned the Supreme Court's action, include Corby Hall, Moreau "The first," he said, "is the In a one-sentence order, the justices refused saying the justices had usurped congressional . Seminary, the Morris Inn, or hawkish atmosphere in which to sidetrack a federal judge's ~rder forcing the power to set spending priorities. He said the 
1 
the hall food sales. Van we live at the present government to pay for medtcally necessary court had restored "abortion on demand " W olvlear cited the fact that moment." National security, abortions for poor wornen. Th 11· · 'd .
US D. · t] d J h D r · N ~ k ·e I mms congressman sat he was notthese areas are out of his he said, is considered the 0 0 111 . · · tstnc u ge n ° mg ~w . _or -ready to concede that the high court would 
jurisdiction. greatest value. ''Peace through Ctty last month struck down as unconstttutlonal h · · · 
h 11 d H d d t · · 1 eventually overturn t e aboruon restncttons thatpower'' is the watchword today, 
. Fr. John Fitzgerald, assoc­t e s_o-~a e Y e_a~en men.' a congres~tona bear his name but added "I don't see a great iate din:ctor of Campus Min­Toohey observed. restnctlon on Medtcatd spendmg for aborttons. £ t~m· h ' · · f h The second problem, he said, The restrictions is ·kamed after its original ~aut~e or opr 1 dtstmh wt etn a maJbor£tty 0 futlei
istry, told the Observer that the 
R H d R 111 · JUS tees reve se e s a us quo e ore a
is the current mythology -the
Holy Cross fathers would sup­sponso~, , ep · enry Y e • -·. . . hearin was held." 
port the ban. "conventional wisdom"-of our Dooltn~. s order taht the spendmg restnctton g . , . . ·'People can presume that present time: freedom is worth end now ts in effect after the Supreme Court, on He ~r~dtcted .the c~urt s acuon would gtve fighting for, and the Soviet a 6-3 vote, refused to·'overturn him. new ~ptr~t to anu-abortton elel!le~ts wh~ want a
the Holy Cross community
1 presence near the Persian Gulf At the same time, the justices voted 6-3 to constltuuonal amendm~n.t to. hmt~ aborr~ons.
would comply with such a is a threat to our freedom. :expedite thetr consideration of the New York· But the Amencan .Ct'-:11 Lipe~ues Un~on and
ban,'' Fitzgerald said. 1 
He said that . the freedom . City case by 'consolidatin~ it with a Hyde the ~ent~r _for Consutut~onal.~tghts haded theAs :for the' other areas, such 
amendment case from Chtcago accepted for c_ourt s actton as markmg ' a great day foras food sales, Van Wolvlear told Americans would be fighting for in the Persian Gulf would review last Nov1• 26. · · ltberty. Poor women all over the country canthe FLOC group thar they 
would have to each be real freedom. • The court tl>rd,~red a\1.1 briefs in the New York once again get Medicaid-funded abortions.''
approach not "We manager and ask that he or she would be sacrificing young ·City case be•s\ubtnitted:by ApiillO, an indication In his decision, Judge Dooling said Medicaid partiCipate in the ban. people so that the.. rl.ch will be ,th~ jus~ices ~ill \scheflule. oml arguments. in t~e money. for medic~lly necessary ab?rtions must The Student Activities office free to buy oil," he said. t_ Chtcago.an9 Ne\w Ydlrk cases for s0.metune tn · be. av~tlable to ehgtble women as ts money for has some jurisdiction over food­Toohey said that· Carter 'has late April. · · 1 l. 1 1 chlldbrrth costs.
• 

sales. Dr. James McDonnell, cr~ated a myth in saying the If so; they. \wil ru~e definitively on the Hyde The judge's broad definition of "medically director of the office, felt that ' 'Afghanistan situation is the _amendment'$ 'co stitutionaliry by the end of the necessary'' went beyond physical health to 
the managers would back the most ~eriouis threat .to peace current term:in]\une. ' include the best interest of a woman's mental since World War Two." . The_spending 'restriction makes money for and spr 1 well-being. 
ban. -­
-. ·-~-·---·-·------·--·------·-·-·~·-·--~--..·-·-··---·---·-··----·-----·-·---..._____ ----·-·-------..-~-----... --..· ..:::..· --~.-------------·-----­
. : ~ ~ ..
........ 
; I 

News in brief  Wednesday, February 20, 1980 -page 2  
Ex-CIA agent breaches code ofsecrecy, loses bookprofits WASHINGTON (AP) -The federal government is entitled to all profits made by ex-CIA a~ent Frank Snepp on an unauthorized book he published m 1977, the Supreme Court ruled yesterday. By a 6-3 vote, the justices ruled that Snepp breached two CIA secrecy agreements when he wrote a book highly critical of the U.S. Withdrawal from South Vietnam. The high court rejected Snepp's arguments against restric­tions on free speech. The secrecy pacts, one si~ned by Snepp before he joined the CIA in 1968 and another stgned when he resigned in 1976, required him to get prior agency approval for publication of any CIA-related information. Snepp did not seek agency clearance before publishing his book, ''Decent Interval." Snepp, who served in Vietnam for 41fz years and was there during the final U.S. evacuation in 1975, currently is under orders from other courst not to publish any work related to his experience unless he first seeks CIA permission. He als faces the possibility of defending himself from a government lawsuit seeking money damages. · Weather Cloudy with a ~hance for light rain early Wednesday. Highs tn the low to mtd 40s. Mostly cloudy tonight and tomorrow. Lows tonight in the low to mid 30s. High tomorrow in the mid to upper 40s.  FLOC tneeby Lynne Daley Representatives of the Farm Labor Organizing Committee (FLOC) spoke to members of the Hall President's Council (HPC) at a meeting last night at Mornssey Hall. Anne Huber of FLOC presented the HPC with pro-con sheets for distribution to all students prior to the referendum vote on Monday_ According to Huber, the word­ing of the referendum will be altered to read "a University ban" ofCampbell's and Libby's products, rather than "a total University ban." This change would exclude the Morris Inn, the ACC, the University Club and Moreau Seminary. Also, Huber added, individual food sales in the dorms would re­main uneffected. Only the dining halls, which use neither product, and the Huddle would be forced to comply with the proposed boycott. su replaces •mome  ts with HPC on ban Don Murday, Carroll Hall accepted date, April 18, was president, questioned the fair­rejected because of its proximi­ness of imposing a campus­cy.•J:if the Irish Wake. Dale wide boycott on students who Robiilson of Breen-Phillips pro­are opposed to the measure,_ posed that proceeds from this "It is important that we take a event go to aid the Cambodian stand as an institution," Huber ~telief fund. Final decisions retorted. were postponed until the HPC In other business, the HPC meeting next Tuesday night at projected that 1000 Pope John 6:30 at Pangborn.Paul II posters could be sold in the dorms to benefit Cambodi­an relief fund. Bill Straccia, of RogersKeenan Hall, said he . would purchase the posters for $ .35 and sell them for $2. All profits will go to aid Cambodia. to deliver HPC Chairman Ellen Dorney announced that the results of the alcohol surver will be poetry series presented to the hal presidents at next Tuesday's meeting. Professor Stephen Rogers will With these final figures, stu­deliver the first of two lectures dents who still have their on poetry and education survey number can see how entided "Poetry and the Kinds they relate to the national of Truth'' tomorrow night at 8 norm. pm in rhe Library Lounge.St. Ed's President Chris Digan Asenmd lecture will follow on described the surveys as March 20, "What if Education "weighted--you couldn't come Were Like Poetry?" out a good drinker." Of the kinds of truth and Also, the Sowder Trophy win­liberal learning, Dr. Rogers has ner for December and January written that "the modern uni­was Walsh Hall, with Afumni as versity in America tends to the runner-up. Curt Wesseln of deform some persons by Grace recommended that a feeding them to soon on one monetary award go with the kind of truth to the exclusion of trophy, which is awarded to the others. The liberal arts have dorms on the basis of social been unable on the whole to  
CaniP-_u~s-----~  
12: I) pm MICROBIOLOGY DEPT. SEMINAR· "steroid  
hormone receptors in the poll art prostrate tumor cell lines," dr. sham-y·uen chan, nd, GALVIN AUD.  The Student Union Movie Commission announces the  activities held. No action was correct these deformities be­taken. cause of a fundamental mistake An HPC-sponsored campus­in the tradition of liberal learn­ 
I·.> pm EXHIBITION, isis gallery student exhibition, bridget mast and tes!:t panfil, ISIS GALLERY.  cancellation of Breaking Away scheduled to have been shown this Friday and Saturday night.  wide dance was tentatively mg. That mistake is the scheduled for the weekend of identifying of the liberal arts March 14-15. A previously with specific disciplines."  
2:50pm PHYSICS DEPT. LECTURE* "ee-annihilation and  Volrmteerjam, a concert film of  
kpton pair production according to qed," dr. j.f. owens,  southern rock, starring the  
florida stare u. 220 NIEUWLAND. ):2) pm SEMINAR • ''kraron thermalplastic rubbers: the  Charlie Daniels Band and the Marshall Tucker Band will re­place it. Showings are at 7, 9,  -IITsrw,..,.'VIR{fs  
pathway to invention," dr. geoffrey holden, shell develop­ and 11 p.m.  
ment con., houston, texas, 356FI1ZPATRICKHALL' spons: chemical engr. 4:_50 pm CHEMI_S!RY_ DEPT. LECTURE* "traveling waves of chemtc~l acttvl(y m the zhabotinsky reaction," prof.  _The Observer_ STAR WARS  ~~C!IJelflj THURSDAY duiWcg .ra.t LajiiiCbfg F£'8. 21  
mhard 1· fteld. nd. 123 NIEUWLAND.  Ni[J.htEditor: Ann "Princess  
6: I) pm SCRIPTURE SERIES • lenten scripture discussions  Leta" Monaghan Asst. Night Editor: Danny  ,5:30  
BADIN HALL & BREEN PHILLIPS CHAPELS. spons~  "Luke Skywalker" Tarullo,  
 
campus mtntstry.  Mike "Hans Solo" Jans Copy Editor: Maribeth  
(dO pm MEETING· alpha phi omega, LAFORTUNE  "Oberon" Moran  
THEATER.  Layout Staff: Mary "C3PO" Leavitt, Patty ''R2D2"  
6:50pm MEETING* sailing club 204 O'SHAG.  Sheehan News Editor: Mark ''Death  
7 pm FORUM, spons: sbp/sbvp, WASH. HALL.  Star'' Rust Editorial Layout: Ann  
7,'J,&II pm FILM, "the graduate", ENGR. AUD. spons:  "Jawa" Gales  
I res h rna n class.  Sports Layout: Mike "Obi Wankanobi" Ortman, Brian  
7·I Opm DOCUMENT ARIES ON FLOC-CAMPBELLS  ''Sand Person'' Beglane, Bill  
-.pons: ohio farm workers support committee, continuou~  "The Force" Marquard  
-.i1owing and discussion, 120 HAYES HEALY.  Sports Copy Editor: BEG-ORT  
::50 prn LECTURE "doctor faustus-­is he damned or  "Wookies": Carol Cornwall,  
-,avcd 1" erich heller, northwestern u. STAPLETON  Pauler, Shea, Katie Bigane,  
 
LOUNGE SPONS: humanistic study.  Kathy Murray EMT: Kim "Grand Moff  Ash Wednesday Services  
7:)0 pm LECTURE, "education & liberation in latin  Tarkio" Convey  
a mer IL<t: an ovnview & personal reflection," sr. aline marie  Proofreader: John  
stever. mcmbn of general council of sisters of the holy cross, <.. \IWOLI. HALL Sl\fC, spons: christian and justice lecture  "Chewbacca" Chausee ND Day Editor: Patsy ''Shot  Sacred Heart Church  
"l · r1c-..  Gun" Campbell Ad Design: Anne "20th·  
~ iO prn <.iSU MEETING, open meeting with provost, MEM.  Century Fox'' Fink  
·LIBHAI{Y LOUNGE, spons: gsu.  Photographer: Mike "Darth  
~ iO l)rn ECONOMIC DEPT;, LECTURE, "facing chemicals '"' ra< ra111•n 111 tht· Job today, anthony mazzocch1, dtr. dept.  Vadar" Bigley Guest Appearances.: Deirdre "Alien" Murphy, "John  ll:30am Fr. Pat Sullivan, c.s.c.  
ol ,lwalth & safety: oil, chemical atomic workers union  Williams" Smith, Tom  
.\1{< :1 HTECTURE AUD. '  "Galaxy" Schuster  5:00pm Fr. Bill Toohey, c.s.c.  
7:30 prn BASKETBALL, nd vs xavier, AWAY.  The Observer !USPS 511 1211) Is published Mlllldly through Frldly IJ­1  
.., I) prn. DISCUSSION, women's view of "lucia" roundtable discussion, spons: women's organization, 331 O'SHAG.  ttpt during a1m 1nd wJCitilll perllds. The Observer Is publilllld by 1111 students llf Natrt o.... IIIII S1i11t:c.:•· Sublcriplillll lillY Ill  (Pleue note time change)  

-l p_rn lECTURE SERIE_S_ 9~. THE DRAFT,." voluntary :...U, 1 ,:.:~.~=-=mtltua vs consc ptton mdltta, lt. col. henry J. gordon & a NMnb11111,llldllu 4Bil. s.-d 
Check hall bulletin boardl
emeJ capt. king pfeiffer, rotc-nd, MEM. LIBRARY AUD. ctia 111111111 fllld, Nllrt 011111, I• 
dillll .41551. 
an

, for times of MUHsln dorms. 
MEE'l'l NG. Tile Observer It I ...._. .. 1111


tiU. 

C811JP.US

) m 1 , spons: s.u~e., stu eQ s u 'l_ed f_p{ ~ l'tl •aclta
~ 
---miniStry

~-~~it~~~f!er~!M~tl~~!.-.. i<, ~Ar, · · ...:.:..J.,"'~"~ :. ~18~~·:-~N~-~-..-J>; 
l r 



"It's a constructive sugges­tion for solving what so far has 

SpiritualityofTIIOMASMERTON 
been an intractable problem. I believe it will receive the sup­
A series oftalks by ]anJes Finley authorand 
port of a great number of .. neutral, non-aligned and 
former Trappist Monk with Thomas Merton . 
Islamic countries who are very worried about what the Soviet .First Ftve Sunday Nights of Lent 
Union has done in Afghanistan, carrington said. 8:00 to 9:30pm Crypt ofSACRED HEART CHURCH 
"What we are saying is that 
the major powers, especially February 24: MERTON AS GliroEIN THE SEARCH FOR GOD 
the two superpowers, must declare Afghanistan off limits -., DB 28, l:IOJm March 2: IlVING1!\iTHE.PBE~~N_g~ QFGQD 
· outside their spheres of direct influence -and let that country in Lalonue ftea're March 9: SHARINGIN THE PASCH OF CHRIST adhere strictly to the principle M ch 16 THE!.PURIFICATION OFLO.. VE 
of non-alignment,'' West Ger. lqtrbam'l ar : many Foreign Minister Hans · · March 23 LIVING A LIFE OFPRAYER 
Dietrich Genscher reportedly la !lra..Ju.,, lac · : · · 
.'.•:o~~~~:~.;~{~~t. of Germ~ r~_-· . ' , ·' _· . SAC_:' ...J:f/J4,RT:P~Rf.SlJ}n~"-,\;.!_~~~,~~/q".~~ 
i ~....... • . ' . : , .. '........~.~-"'"'·-...-·"*"-··"' •J,'t~\.4,• ...._...'1:........, ............" ......... ~~·-~.!J.,.~.40M~!!-o""'"'·t-:4<·;·.~~·."
ltf:,.....~......,.,............. ..,. .... ,.....,.................. "..... "'........ ~~..........,"' ............'\..~_ ..""..................tt.,...,.........~ ....., 
The Observer 

ROME (AP) -The nine­nation European Common Market called yesterday for an international guarantee of Afghanistan's neutrality to induce Moscow to withdraw its troops from, that country. 
At the same time, the foreign ministers of the nine countries decided to postpone any joint response to the proposed boycott of the Moscow Olym­pics until the Soviets reply to the neutrality plan, conference sources said. 
In a joint statement following a day-long meeting here, the ministers declared that the Afghan crisis "could bcbover­come constructively through an arrangement which allows a neutral Afghanistan to be out­side the competition among the powers." 
"Obviously, the Western na­tions are offering a face-saving device for the Soviet Union to pull out gracefully," said a high conference official who asked nut to be identified. 
British and West German officials said the proposal, put forward by British Foreign Sec­retary Lord Carrington, had been discussed with the U.S. government in advance. 
Carrington told anew_!lconfer­ence that he had in mind the model used to guarantee Austria's neutrality m 1955 by the four major powers -the United States, the Soviet Union, France and Bntain. 
port~~ 
"We consider it a strong political statement because there was a complete unity of views among the nine,'' said Roger Beetham, spokesman for the Common Market commis­sion president, Roy Jenkins. 
On the Olympics question, .the ministers agreed to take a wait-and-see attitude until the Soviet views are made known on the neutrality proposal, the sources said. 
President Carter has propos­ed that the games be moved to a neutral country or postponed 
• unless •'i.~he Soviet tro<?ps are wlthdra:~from Afghanistan by today. The Common Market pro­posal will be explained to U.S. Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance who was to arrive in Bonn later Tuesday for a four­day swing through West Germany, Italy, France and Britain. The statement said the mini­sters stressed in particular that the 'soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan "remains their objective and that they will endeavor to establish the condi­tions for this.'' 
The nine Common Market countries, formally called the European Economic Commun­ity, are Britain, France, West Germany, Italy, Belgium, Netherlands, Luxembourg, Denmark; Ireland. 
Wednesday, February 20, 1980 -page 3 
Despite IOC deniai 
Carter continues stand on boycott 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Presi­dent Carter refused to back away from his demand that the Soviet Union get out of Afghan­istan by today or risk U.S. refusal to participate in the Summer Olympics. 
The "deadline is tomorrow­
and  it will  not  be  changed,"  
Carter told  a  loudly  cheering ·  
convention  of  the  American  

Legion yesterday. The presi­dent also told the organization's annual conference that as many as 100,000 Russian troops were occupying Afghanistan. 
The Soviet Union has given no signal that it would remove its forces during month that has elapsed since Carter first issued the demand on Jan. 20. 
Asked' what would happed today when the deadline arrives White House press secretary ) ody Powell said "we have made our !?osition very clear. 
; The question now addresses 
itself to the United States 
Olympic Committee." 
"We would like for them to 
reach a decision as soon as they~· can,'' he said at a White House briefing for reporters. 
. One White House source, asking not to be named publicly said, ''There's nothing new. No one expected the Soviets would be out by the 20th. I don't think the day has any particular significance." _ 
The source, who has been involved in the international effort to round up support for Carter's Olympic stand, said ''about 50 governments public­ly an~ ,Privately seem to be in favor. 
The White House source 
would not list those nations, but said they include several in Africa, most of the Islamic nations-upset over the occupa­tions of fiercely religious Afghanistan-and allies in Eur­ope, as well as Canada, New Zealand and Austrailia. 
He said discussions are under way with other nations to pick sites for an alternative sports competition this summer. 
' 'We are no longer talking about a single site for all events," the source said. He said the adminsitration would prefer that alternative games be held outside of the United States, ''for reasons of interna­tional policy,'' meaning that Carter did not want to set UJ? a sports fete in direct competitiOn , 
Commission seeks platforms 
Class officers platforms are due into Student Activities by 5 
p.m. tomorrow. 
with the Olympics to be held in But on Saturday, the USOC I Moscow. rejected pressure by the admin-
The International Olympic' istration to make a quick official 
Committee awarded the 1980 decision on the boycott proposal 
Summer Olympics to Moscow Carter had sent Lloyd Cutler, 
in 1974. Since then, the his White House couonsel, to 
Kremlin has attempted to por-Lake Placid, N.Y., where the 
tray that decision as an indica-Winter Games are being held 
tion of international approval of without any apparent interna­
the Soviet government and its tiona! repercussions. 
policies. ' After Cutler met with U.S. The IOC recently reaffirmed Olympics officials, USOC presi­its decision to hold the compe-dent Robert Kane said he was tition in Moscow, beginning in asked "to bring our decision July, thus rejecting Carter's forward from April 11-13 wht;n 
suggestion that the games be our House of Delegates wtll postponed, canceled or moved meet at Colorado Springs. from Moscow. Cater wrote Kane on Jan. 20 
The U.S. Olympic Committee, that " . if Soviet troops do h<?t which oversees American parti-fully w~th?raw from Afghant­cipation in the Winter and stan witht.n the next mont~, Summer Olympics, has said Mosc<?w will beco~e an unsmt­that it will abide by the wishe1s able sHe for a festtval meant to of the Carter administration. celebrate peace and good will.'' 
JUNIORSI·­Be Sure to Sign Up for Appointments for YeQtbook PorttQits 
Tuesday, Feb.19, thtough Ftlday, 
Feb. ~2, atboth dining halls at dlnnet, 5-6:30 A J1 sitting fee will be tequlted when 
photogtaph Is taken 
NOTRE DAME 
UNDERGRADUATE IOALCOORDINATO 
applications available FEB 15 ;at UDENT GOVERNMENTOFFI.... 
. 
applications due FEB 29by 5 : OOpm 
ANY QUESTIONS CALL JUDICIAL COUNCIL 
8FFICE 
·~13 


~ 

The Observer Wedpesday, February 20, 1980 -page 4 
Volcker attributes inflation to money supply upswing 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Chair­man Paul A. Volcker of the Federal Reserve Board said yesterday that rapid growth of the nation's money supply has been fueling inflation in the United States, and he vowed the growth will stop even though it means "horrendous" high interest rates. 
He also said there isn't any evidence that the economy has been "brutally squeezed" by high interest rates. On Friday, the board raised its key band lending rate by a full percent­age point to a new record high of 13 percent. 
''As horrendous as those interest rates are1 people are telling you they are willing to borrow at those rates because of the seriousness of inflation,'' 
r he told the House Banking 
r Committee.
, 
"Let there be no doubt; the 
r F~.:deral Reserve is determined to make every reasonable effort to work toward reducing mone­tary growth from the levels of 
Severe rains hit West 
For your future Ar MBA from SMU  
-o 3 trimester, one year accredited program o high quality faculty o close interaction with business community o innovative approach to learning  
For information call toll free: 800/527·6817  
(l:\ Edwin L. Cox School of Business'U/ Southern Methodist University Dallas, Texas 75275  

(AP) -Mudslides and flooding 

· spread further across Southern California yesterday, where a week of storms had already dumped a foot of rain and caused $100 million damage. 
With at least 18 persons dead in California, thousands home­less and dams overflowing in some parts of the state, rain fell relentlessly for a seventh day. The National Guard was on alert. 
Floods from the same storm system continued to take their toll in Utah and Arizona. 


In Phoenix, long traffic jams developed when another bridge was closed across the flood­swollen Salt River, which splits the city down the middle. That I left only two of 10 bridges open 
... FLOC 
[continued from page 1] 
panics. Neither of the two has issued a statement concerning

FLY FROM SOUTH BEND the approaching referendum. Campbell's is, however, send­TO FORT LAUDERDALE ing a representative to Notre Dame to state the company's case in the matter. He will
ONLY $189 
speak on Friday, at 2 p.m., in the LaFortune Little Theatre. The Ohio chapter of the

Complete package as low as $298, FLOC group will present their side of the issue on Thursday, when a representative will ~peak at Hayes-Healy auditor­Complete package in~udes Ium at 8 p.m. 
round trip non-stop jet fare 
NDPre-Law 
? nieh'• oceanfron' ho,el accomoda,ions and all tu 
to sponsor 

also available.National Car Rentals 
•
semmar

DEPARTS .MARCH 29 
The Notre Dame Pre-Law

RETURNS APRIL 5 
Society will sponsor a Womer. in Law night this coming Mon­
for reservation information\ 
day at 7 pm in Hayes-Healy Auditorium. Guest speakers
call Shaz 232-6831 
will include Prof. Patricia 0' Hara and Carmen Piasecki, an attorney from South Bend. All 
or call toll-free 1-800-848-9540 
arrangements by Student Sun TriPs, Inc. 
are welcome to attend, and a reception will follow. 
in the metropolitan area of 1. 5 
million people. 
California Gov. Edmund G. 
Brown Jr. cut short a presiden­
tial campaign swing in New 
England to return home and 
declared four more counties 
disaster areas, including Los 
Angeles County. 
In Arizona, Gov. Bruce Bab­
bitt asked President Carter on 
Monday night to declare much 
of central Arizona a disaster 
area. 
Brown, who said his own home 
in Laurel Canyon was "like a 
swimming pool'' on the inside, 
estimated the damage in his 
state at $100 million. 
Fashionable homes were slid­
ing down hillsides giving way in 
the rain. Roads were blocked, 
travelers stranded. 
California authorities said 760 
homes had been damaged, with 
27 destroyed, most of them in 
Los Angeles County. 
At least 4,500 persons had 
been evacuated or warned to 
leave. 
Homes in the exclusive sea­
side area of Malibu were threat­
ened by oozing mud and ero­
sion from heavy surf, which 
sent one house toppling into the 
ocean Sunday. 
''The mud is up to the window 
sills of one house,'' said Los 
Angeles County shefiff s depu­
ty Mike Santander. 
A cloudburst at dawn brought 
down part of a hill in Stone 
Canyon, above the San Fernan­
do Valley, seriously damaging 
four homes and forcing the 
evacuation of 50 families. 
"If the rain keeps coming," ' the hill will keep coming,'' said 
Pat Connelley at the Los Ange­
les Emergency control Center. 
In the San Diego area, water 
was flowing over the tops of a 
half dozen dams for the first 
time in two years. Authorities 
closed six state highways and 
43 county roads. 
In the week that saw 11.34 
inches . of rain fall in Los 
Angeles, at least 18 persons 
had been killed in California 
with several injured. Three 
persons were dead in Arizona 
and three Americans were a­
mong the casualties in Tijuana, 
Mextco. 

re~.:ent years, not just in 1980, but in the years ahead,'' he said. 1 
Volcker also said he might favor legislation to curb federal spending by limiting it to a fixed share of the nation's gross na1ional product. ·spending currently equals about 21 per­cent of GNP. 
"I find myself coming to that point," Volcker said. While he said a constitutional amend-. ment to limit spending would be too rigid, "legislattvely, it may be a good idea." 
Volcker announced lower tar­gets for growth of the money supply in 1980 than in 1979. They include growth in the basic money supply, now known as M-1A of between 3. 5 and 6 percent, with a mid-point of 4. 75 percent. The basic money supply grew last year by 
5.5 percent. 
"There is little doubt that inflation cannot persist in the long run unless it is accommo­dated by excessive expansion of money and credit ... " Volcker said. ''According, I see no alternative to a progressive slowing of growth of the mone­tary aggregates... " 
High interest rates are sup­posed to slow growth of the money supply by making bor­rowing more expensive for business and consumers. As borrowing slows, this is sup­posed to take pressure off prices. 
In other economic develop­ments yesterday. Housing starts declined for 
the fourth consecutive month in January, falling to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.4 million units, the lowest since mid.J976. The housing indus­try has been hard-hit by the Fed<.:ral Reserve Board's high interest rate policy. 
Chase Manhattan and sev­eral other major banks increas­ed their prime lending rate to 15 3/4 percent, up from 15 1/4 percent, equalling the previous high record. The increase was the direct result of the reserve board's decision Friday to hike its bank lending rate. 
Personal income of American inaeased $11.4 billion in Jan­uary, a gain of 0.6 percent, which showed Americans are · continuing to lose ground to; inflation. Prices have increased 
·J percent a month on average. 
Take A Prof 
to Lunch to resume 
The Take-A-Prof-To-Lunch 

program will resume for the 
semester. 
Co-ex tickets are now avail­able in the Student Government office, 2nd floor of LaFortune. The ticket inables a professor to a free lunch with students in the north or south dining halls. 
A minimum of three students must take a prof to lunch. The ID numbers of these students must be given before picking up a ticket. 
Mike Flynn, co-ex ticket com­missioner, emphasized that the program must be used or it will be discontinued by the Admin­istration. 

-~-----~--------------~~----~--------:--:---~-:--~----~...._,..-~-~~--. 
The Observer 
Board strives to improve social life 
............ oJ... • • • ,, .• '1· ·--. 

by Kelli Flint 
Proposals to increase student social space in order to alleviate the heavy drinking situation at Notre Dame were presented at the executive committee meet­ing of the Board of Trustees in Florida last weekend. , 
The proposals are included in a report on alcohol use and abuse at Notre Dame, which was presented to the board of 
trustees  by  Fr.  John  Van  
Wolvlear,  vice-president  for  
Student Affairs.  

The report listed several suggestions to remedy the lack of social space on campus. According to Patricia Crosson, director of the Department of Psychological Services, the pro­posals are based on three main assumptions: that greater maleI female socialization is de­sirable; that dining with friends is a traditional form of socializa­tion in all peer elite groups; and that students will meet the behavioral expectations given by environmental cues. 
"We hope that the Student Affairs Committee will target the dining halls in 1980-81 as the most immediate way to increase a campus tone of pleasant sociali:tation that does not include school," Crosson said. 
Van Wolvlear noted that the suggestions of the department (regarding social space) will be discussed at a rector's meeting tonight. "Priority will be given to the lunch and dinner situa­tion at the dining halls," Van Wolvlear said. 
The report suggested con­necting the rwo new dorms to one of the towers with a new dining hall, possibly one with a bowling alley and pinball mach­ines in a basement. The report also suggested that this dining hall have seating arrangements like the South dining hall, with smaller tables to seat eight. 
A more thematic decor was also suggested, along with the possibility of using the hall between lunch and dinner hours as free social space. 
The report also _proposed putting a late-nite coffee house 111 the old Engineering Building to add social space in the South Quad. 
Another proposal of the re­port was to increase the use of Stepan Center. The report cited the plan of an architect student about a year ago to add several small ethnic restaurants around the perimeter of the Center. The restaurants could be weekend franchises of local pizza and Chinese carry-outs. 
It was also suggested that Stepan be used on weekend nights as a dance hall with a good stereo system when no live group is available. Special lightmg effects were suggested to highlight styles of music. 
''The success of the pro­posals made in our report depend on student supports,'' Crosson said. "Student opin­Ions are always heard by the 
ay ..Hi!" to someone 

special with ObserverpersOnals. 

f':lEW ORLEANS (AP) -An estimated one million people turned out for a born-again Mardi Gras yesterday, filling the French Quarter with hard-drinking revelers and packing parade routes with spet:tators, just like the good old bashes before the 1979 police strike. 
Instead of bitter tensions and National Guard troops on every downtown corner, this Mardi Gras was sunkissed and laid-back. • 
On_ce again, Rex, King of Carn1val, led his splendidly ghttenng procession through crowds shrieking for the neck­laces and doubloons flung from the tloats. 
Zulu, chieftain of the blacks, 
loomed majestically over his 
parade, blessing chosen fold 
with gilded coconuts. 
No accurate crowd count was possible but police estimated that one million people were out for the great day, the climax of Carnival, in New Orleans and suburbs. 
.1.1Uh.dill . 

In keeping with desegrega­tion, Zulu hired Woody Herman and his latest big-band Herd to blow jazz for the Zulu Ball-the fi_rst white band to handle the glg. 
The fact that Zulu "krewe­men" included the Rev. Jesse Jackson, a renowned black activist, marked the extent of changing attitudes since the late 1960s, when many blacks regarded the krewe as racially demeaning. 
Comic gorillas, Arab sheiks in sheets, women in sheer body stockings, clowns on roller skates, knights in armor and similar costumed celebrators roamed the streets. 
In case spirits flagged, worn down by wee\<.s of Carnival, a lot of out-of-town help was at hand. 
"A lot of people don't know how to have a good time and we came down here to help them," said Ec{ward Thompson of Boston. 1Equipped with tamborines to supply the beat, he and four other Bostonians danced through the seething Quarter. . 
Actually, not enough out-of­town help came to satisfy officials of the tourio:;r industry, which ranks just IJehind the port in the money crop here. 
Of 20,000 hotel-motel rooms, 500 were reported unsold at the start of Mardi Gras weekend. Hotelmen were reduced to rent­ing rooms for one night only for a mere $75-a glum'comedown from the haughty requirement that a Mardi Gras reservation had to be a three-day package. 
The Quarter was packed early. By 10 a.m., a few early 
IWEDN ESDAY' .FEB. 20 .LIBRARY LOUNGE
birds already were slumped peacefully in doorways, obliv­
t--------7:30pm-------'
ious to the passing throng. Police looked on with general disregard. Sgt. R.A. Drouant, who was walking a picket line during last 
SENIOR CLASS PRESENTS
year's spree, said this crowd was so large the department had "scraped the bottom of the 
APUNK-OUT HAPPY HOUR 
barrel" to put extra men on the 
4-Spm FRIDAY FEB ll 
streets. ''But this looks like a good crowd," said Drouant. "Mardi 
at Bridget McGuire's Miller Buckets, drink 
Gras crowds are usually less 
Riling Station specials and prizes for
trouble than Carnival crowds, because by the time Mardi Gras 
the best.Woking punkers 
administration. We have every reason to believe that the administration will supply more social space on campus if we have the support of the stu­dents,'' she added. 
''The report was presented to the executive committee as information to the board so that they would have first hand kn_owl~.dge of the drinking sit­uuon, Van Wolvlear said. "Few comments were made. The situation was left to the Department of Psychological Services to deal with. The board was more interested in the direct results of the survey than the counteractions sug­gested by the Psychological Services Department.'' 
At Mardi Gras 
Partiers mellow out 
G.S.U. 


( 
--~----·---.... -... 

Editorials 
Wednesday, February 20, 1980 -page 6 
'In loco parentis' Draft ofwomen 1harbaric' 
Madonna}. Christenst­
w-ith reservations 
Last weekend l was unfortun­ate enough to encounter two aspects of Notre\Dame life which distressed and enfuriated me. The incident which I am about to describe left me de· pressed and confused, and I therefore pose this as an open letter, hoping : for feedback from other students and the Administration. Perhaps through recognition and a show of con1:ern we can begin to remedy these problems. 
On Friday evening I was returning to campus at around 2 
a.m. I had been at a nearby off-campus house and was making the short walk up Notre Dame Avenue when I heard some strange guttural sounds emananting from some place up ahead of me. When I caught up wirh them, I got a/ood look at the third party an I asked his companions if they knew him. They said they did, and al­thou~h it appeared to me that tl.e mdividual they supported was having some sort of epilep­tic fit, I asked them what had happened. He'd been drinking at the bars. they said. 
As we stood by the side of th< road, a friend of mine pulled up in his car to offer me a ride. I solicited the use of his car, and the four of us piled in, our drunken classmate screaming senselessly and getting sick both inside and out of the car. The officer at the front gate looked in the car and, spurred by the student's exclamations, opened the gate and said he'd provide us with an escort. We went on heedless of his words, driving a bit too quickly to the infirmary. 
Upon arriving, the four of us carried our limp, coughing friend up to the door and into the building. Placing him on the floor, we explained that he was very, very drunk. The response of the greeting nurse was incomprehensible. "We don't take care of drunk stu­dents," she said. We pleaded with her in heightened and excessive language, but she refused us. Her sug~estion was that we stay up w1th him all night to make sure that he did not choke on his vomit, or that we take him to St. Joe's Hospital where she said he would ·spend a night in the psych ward. 
We thanked her ingraciously and carried our friend back our to the cars, ours being parked in front of the security guard who had arrived on the scene. The guard consented to drive the student back to his dorm where we suggested he see the rector in order that a more experienced and familiar indi­vidual could offer us his opin­ions and aid. He was dnven back, and after a shower (the rwo students who lived in bi.i dorm opted not to face rhe rector), " ., ~ ?Ut to bed. 
I have g ·IC into detail with this acwun, only bLcaust> I believe it illuminates srven.l absurd a:.pcct:-o~t life at 1\.:;;c Pame. If it ~cc.•h 'OO fullblowu :md colorful, perhaps it i~ I wonder, ho\\.< ver, how many people coulJ pos,ibly have encountC":' d auother individual 
James Dwyer. 
in quite this severe and un­
natural a state? 

Upon returning to my room at 
about 3 a.m., I began to ask 
myself what I had just been 
involved in. What state of mind 
could this student have been in 
to drink himself into this incon­
ceivable state? Who was 
serving him while he pro· 
~ressed to this state of delir­
Ium? What were the people 
with him doing? 

When my thoughts focused on 
the infirmary, I grew angry. 
This, I thought is ''In Loco 
Parentis?" Sure, In Loco 
Parentis, which is to say In 
Loco. Parentis With Reserva­
tions. 

Ignoring the fact that this is a 
Catholic University, how could 
our inappreciative nurse ignore 
our predicament and thrust the 
burden ofresponsibility back on 
our already weary shoulders? 
And if this had been her son in 
a comparable situation, how 
would she have wished the 
receiving medical authorities to 
act? 

Perhaps l'm being too hard on 
this nur.;e, but then to whom do 
I addre~s my grievances? To 
the source of In Loc~ Parentis, 
to the University which, when it 
came down to a sticky, human 
situation, had employed a poli­
cy which showed it didn't gtve a 
damn. 

Our more-than-drunk student 
served as a catalyst for more 
thoue-hts. If the University is 
wornes:l about the ''drinking 
problem," why doesn't it enact 
some programs before the fact? 
It requires no great insight to 
see that there simply are not 
enough things in South Bend to 
keep the socially and intellect· 
ually active (or inactive) indi­
vidual busy during his free 
time. 

But what does the Administra­
tion do? It restricts students 
partying and socializing on 
campus with stringent party 
rules and parietals, and tn so 
doiog forces them to seek social 
intercourse elsewhere, eith~r at 
an off-campus residence or at 
the bars. The school flees from 
the problem. 

Approximately $150 million were raised in the recent Cam­pail' n for Notre Dame, and y..ec the coming year will bring. cutbacks m such cultural and intellectual events as the Col­legiate ] azz Festival and the Midwest Blues Festival. It's as though the University can't recognize the tail that swings behind it as part of its own bodv. 
There are serious questions to be confronted in this incident of student inebriation. It's about time the Administration took a realistic approach to some of its debilitating policies and long­range projects, and focused some active concern on student life. It's about time we stu­dents starred. being. responsible enough to '>top searching for the buzz and rhc constant high. Mure than this, however, It is wne for some open, responsible attention d.nd response from the seem,ngly listless, unreachable anJ unresponding individuals who run this school, a Catholic University. 
In a recent opinion survey of 2. Pentagon figures show 
eighteen· to twenty-four year that IS percent of service­
olds on the issue of the registra­women last year were preg­
tion and draft of women, an nant. This severely disrupts 
alarming number of respond­tactical plans. On the average, 
ants said that, if a draft were · pregnant servicewomen miss 
resumed, women should be 105 days out of a year and, over 
required to pa:ticipate. as well the past two years, have cost 
as men. the army $27 million. Even 
I suspect that support for when they do come to work, 
such a major change in social their male ·compatriots tend to 
policy stems from a blind undertake a disproportionate 
devotion to equality as an share of assignments to lighten 
absolute desideratum. the burden of the pregnant 
However, equal treatment of soldiers. 

all persons is no guarantee of Further difficulties arise after 
justice. On the contrary, it childbirth. In Europe, some 
would be sharply at variance soldiers were forced to bring 
with our notions of fairness. their children with them to 
We would not expect wealthy reveille because they could not 
families to be entitled to food find adequate child-care facili­
stamp benefits or Americans at ties. 

every age to be entitled to vote. 3. Women prisoners of war 
There is nothing wrong-with would be subjected to ordeals 
and much to be desired about even more horrible and degrad­
legislation that confers unequal ing than those worked against 
rights and imposes unequal men. 

obligations if the distinctions 4. Women do not generally 
are based on a reasonable have the emotional makeup 
recognition of real differences needed for military service. 

in the needs, capabilities, Studies show that women are 
strengths and weaknesses of less aggressive, combative and 
the groups governed. competitive than men. Anthro­
Due to a recognition of the pologists have foung that men 
physical and temperamental prevail in positions of leader­
differences between men and ship in every society that they 
women, the Congress has al­have ever studied, Women are 
ways exempted women from more modest, gentle and fastid­
the draft. With President ious than men, on the average. 

Carter's call for the registration These qualities are precious 
of 19· and 20-year old women, and to be encouraged among 
society is one dangerous step women in civilian life; there is 
closer to losing that exemption. no place for them in the armed 
Because the registration of forces. There are, of course, 
women is an empty gesture and women with temperaments 
a waste of time, money and compatible with military life 
anxiety unless it is in prepara­who are free to join voluntarily. 

tion for the draft of women, we But governmental policy should 
should review the reasons why, not be structured to mandate 
even now when sexuaJ equality the rare situation which is 
is being urged in so many contrary to the nature of the 
fields, women should not be majority of American women. 
drafted. 
Our first concern must be A second issue to consider is 

with whether or nor women the effect that draft of women 
would be able to efficiently will have on the combat readi­
perform the tasks to which they ness of the armed forces them-

would be assigned as draftees. selves. The armed services 
Statements by a should not be used as forums 

number of officers indicate for social experimentation. It is 
that, for many reasons, women becoming increasingly evident 
simply do not perform as well, that the quality of public educa­

as dependably or as quickly as tion has suffered since the 
men in the services. schools have been saddled with 

I. No studies are needed, the task of redressing racial though many are available, to imbalance in the classrooms. show that women are smaller, Let us not make the same weaker and have Jess endur-mistake in the services. ance than men on the average. 1. When laws were passed in Although it is said that there 1976 requiring the service acad· are few, if any, military tasks emies to admit women, ir was which women are physically anticipated that minor adminis­unable to perform, we must trative changes would have to keep in mind that it is one thing be made to accomodate the to run an obstacle course or special needs of women. parachute from a plane at West Physical standards were lower­Point or Colorado Springs and ed so that women could meet quite another to be prepared to them. This means that men do so for days on end while who previously would have remaining at constant readines,s been disqualified can now be to engage in hand-to-hand admitted. Such a development combat. . is fine if we conceive of the 
There are those who say that armed services as nothing more wars in the future will not than career and educational require physical strength since opportunities for young adults. they will be fought with nuclear It is foolhardy when we recog­weaponry. Such a position nize that -11emy forces are t:annot b' defended after the unlikely to be as accomodating Vietnam \V!ar. Women Jack the to our servicewomen. upper body strength necessary 2. Even putting pregnancy­to survive in combat. Their realted absences aside, women weakness places an undue bur-mis~ twice as many workdays as den on their male fellows and · 'lervtcemen. endangers their lives as well. 3. Sexual fraternization in the services has had a corrosive effect on dist:ipline and morale in the services already. This problem would only be exacer­bated if the number of women in the services were increased with a draft. 
4. 
The morale of such rigor­ously trained groups as the 82nd Airborne Division of the Army and the Marine Corps is lowered when servicemen know that some of their number will not be the "first to fight." 

5. 
Women on bases cause extra security problems. Even during peacetime, women can­not stand guard duty alone. 

6. 
A capture of service"{omen would put unprecedented pressure on this government to make concessions to enemy demands. 

7. 
Servicemen are distracted by the presence of women, both by their natural attraction to women and by their natural tendency to protect them from aggressiOn. 


The final question to ask ourselves with respect to the draft of women concerns its effect on sociey as a whole and on the values it holds dear. Civilized communities have al­ways taken as a maxim of self-survival that women are to be protected from the aggres­sions of men and the brutalities of war. In a world which is all too frequently violent, do we really want to invade those "havens of gentleness"? Have the rantings and ravings of the feminists really destroyed our appreciation for the fine quali­ties of femininity? 
The most effective national defense arrangement is one that takes into account the special talents of its constituent parts. It is unfair to genera­tions of American women to suppose that military service is the only way in which women can support the country. They have always made contributions to the national defense through the maintenance of the families upon which every peaceful na­tion depends, in the instruction of their children in the princi­ples of civic duty and national pride, and through voluntary civi~ian and military service. The value of these contributions should not be minimized. The conscription of women, which would unnecessarily deprive women of the freedom to be full-time mothers and home­makers, would have an erosive effect on the American family institution. 
Feminists shrilly insist that a governmt>ntal policy exempting women from the draft deprives them of the lucrative career, educational and retirement benefits of the services. Those women who are ready, willing and able to undergo the rigors of military life should do so voluntarily. There :!revery few positiun~ in the services from which qualified women are excluded. But legislation to draft women would fly in the face of some of the fine~ traditions of this country's his­trry. and. in viewing women as legitim:ue objects of military aggresston, would be nothing shorr of bar·baric. 

The Observer -Editorials Wednesday, February 20, 1980 -page 7 
P. 0. Box Q 
problem here,'' or that if there should be apparent in our ofH.E.W.'s Sex Discrimination is, it's all in the minds of consideration of domestic mat­Hesburgh 's attack Board. Unfortunately, Ms.
NOhas reputation 
muddleheaded women such as ters as well. Wt: need not loC>k Weiner was not available due to Ms. Jefchak. to third world countries to find her pressing schedule. How·ofchauvinism If that is so, why did he evidence of social injustice. ever, when we havf' contacted respond so violently? Why Blatant examples present them­of HEW, women her, we will give The Observer 
couldn't he take her opinion for selves far closer to home. the exact breakdown of male Dear Editor: what it was--the expression of One such instance is being and female lawyers who drafted 
beneath his stature

one person's insights, another staged 150 miles east of SQuth' the regulations and implements ·This is in response to Donald human being's view of the Bend, in and around the city of of Title IX. Gerry's letter to the editor (The situation--and answer her by Toledo, Ohio. There, Mexican­Dear Editor: 
Secondly, we take issue withObserver, Feb. 15). I am sorry arguing his side rationally? In­American farmworkers are be­We are law students who are Fr. Hesburgh's accusation thatthat Mr. Gerry cannot resl?ond stead, he makes snide remarks ing used as pawns of the food writing in response to Fr. H.E.W.'s women lawyers are to Ms. Jefchak's letter m a about her "all too bruisable industry. The workers, labor­Hesburgh's remarks regarding not concerned with "equal op·more rational and becoming feminine ego,'' and insists that ing for inexcusably low wages young women lawyers at portunity." We infer that Fr.
fashion. she and "the Notre Dame and inadequate housing and H.E.W. as n;ported by The Hesburgh feels Notre Dame isI should like to relate a recent distaff have it pretty good,'' a health conditions, sought to Observer. Our response is more concerned with "equalincident to lend support to Ms. remark which I assume refers to organize in order to assert their based upon th•: assumptions opportunity." Can he reason·
the to

Jefchak's claim that sexist at­"benefits" of going a strength in requesting improve­that these are Fr Hesburgh's ably imply that Nore Dame istitudes are a problem at Notre school with such a large pool of ments. They were met with words and that they are re­more concerned about equal
Dame. I had a job interview for potential mates. refusals to recognize their or­ported in context. It appears opportunity than are the women an editorial position on an in­Mr. Gerry asks Ms. Jefchak ganization. The corporations 
that, in his attempt to ration­who helped draft the regula­house publication for a service who she thinks she's trying to further weakened the workers alize Notre Dame's apparently tions and implements of Titleorganization based in Chicago. kid, but I would like to turn the by moving toward total mech­frantic, self-serving and ulti­IX? In our opinion, he certainlyAs we began, the person who question back over to him. anization of the farms which mately ineffective retreat from cannot, for we see no serious was interviewing me looked out Who are you trying to kid, Mr. grow their crops. 
its responsibilities under Title attempt by this University tothe window and said, ·~Do you Gerry? Are you really so naive These actions left the farm­IX, Fr. Hesburgh has deliber­achieve equal opportunity forknow what the first thing I think as to believe that the problem at workers still without any im­ately and irresponsibly attacked the sexes. We conclude that, atofwhen I think of a Notre Dame Notre Dame is nothing more provement in conditions and H.E.W. and women, basing his best ND offers a woefullymanis ?",fhe interviewer looked serious than an exaggerated tied the hands of the growers accusation solely upon the au­apathetic response to the spiritback at me and said, ''I think of penchant for telling dirty jokes? who hire the workers. 
thoritative tone of voice which of equal opportunity. 
a male chauvinist.'' There is a problem here, one The corporations, Campbell's this Administration so fre­Third, with raised eyebrows
Obviously, then, the observa­that is complex and wide­Soup Company and Libby­
qu~ntlY. employs. we confront the distinction andtion put forward in Ms. Jef­spread-: Your own letter is a McNeil-Libby claim no res­resultant conflict which Fr.
chak's extremely coherent let­prime example of this problem; ponsibility for the welfare of the The Observer (Feb. 14) Hesburgh so glibly draws be·by failing to recognize that Ms. farmworkers. At the same
ter is not confined to a few states, "He said the H.E.W.'s 
tween "equality" and "equalhyper-sensitive women within Jefchak ts a human being who time, the corporations hold the 'young women lawyers' are opportunity.'' In our opinton,
deserves respect and consider­key to improving working con­
the Notre Dame community. blind to the economic implica­equal opportunity is a facet ofPeople are making the same ation no matter how radically ditions and financial status of tions and are solely concerned equality under the law, a con­her opinion differs from your the workers.
observation in the business and with the single issue of equality cept which bas apparently es­professional fields outside the own, your letter clearly points Our Mexican-American bro­rather than equal opportunity. 
caped this University's Admin­University. Such a reputation to the heart of the issue. thers and sisters have consist­'They (the female lawyers) istration. Consequently, we 
can do little to enhance the ently been treated as inferior don't have a clue what athletic submit that the distinction 
name of our University. Clear­Theresa Rebeck citizens. Laboring in the fields administration is about,' he drawn by Fr. Hesburgh is
ly, to eliminate such a negative or existing in crowded, broken said." We infer that Fr. 
unrealistic, albeit decidedly
perception, we require some shacks, it is easy to be excluded Hesburgh believes the mea­convenient for an Administra­
sort of attitudinal modification Thefarmworkers : from the mainstream of Ameri­sures for implementation of tion which appears determinedwithin the Notre Dame com­can consciousness. Title IX were devised by a 
to quibble and confuse rather
munity. Social injustice The situation in Ohio is not a highly-influential group of tun­that respond positively, to the
basic example ofunion pros and nel-visioned young women law­demands for human equality on
Lisa Hartenberger -cons. It is not simply a yers at H.E.W. 
this campus. 
on a domestic level questions of corporate respons­First, the insinuation that 
Fourth, Fr. Hesburgh stated,ibility or lack thereof. More H.E.W.'s measures spring "They (female lawyers) don'tfundamentally, it involves a from the blinding zeal of young have a clue what athletic ad­
Irrational response genuine struggle for survival. women lawyers is u nfounded. 
ministration is about." In 
Dear Editor: The issue is social justice; the According to the latest National 
response, one might well in­
reflects problem appeal is for human rights. Association for Law Placement quire whether those universi­
Social justice and the role of Reality lies in the suffering so Questionnaire for Recruiting 
ties which are readily comply­
multinational corporations in apparent in the day-to-day hves Employers, as of February 1, 
ing with 'Title IX are able to do
of the farmworkers. It is
ofsexism third world countries have re­1979. H.E.W. employs 393 Jun­so because they don't know
essentially with this in mind ior and Senior lawyers,· 140ceived much press around the aqything about athletic admin­
that a solution to this dilemma
Notre Dame campus of late. In (36%) of 'Whom are women;
Dear Editor: istration either. 
reflecting upon the aforemen­be explored. hardly a female horde. 
In conclusion, we find Fr. 
tioned subjects, we not only On February 25, you as a In addition, we contacted Mr.
I must say I was rather Hesburgh's reported remarks 
embrace the issue of human student and we as the Notre Clark Leming, an H. E. W. Civil
appalled at Mr. Gerry's ir­unquestionably beneath a man
Dame Community can say
rights, but also consider views Rights attorney who assisted in
rational response (Feb. 15) to of Fr. Hesburgh's stature. 
of the United States which may something to the Campbell's the implementation and re­
what I considered an intelli­
and Libby corporations. Our
be quite different from our own. search for Title IX. When he
gent, articulate plea on Ms. Kathen·ne Catanzan·te 
This focus is a noble venture statement will be one of con­heard the direct quotation ofFr.
Jefchak's part. In her letter Mary Ann 0 'Connor 
cern and determination. Vote
educating us while appealing t~ Hesburgh's statement, Mr.
(Feb. 8), Ms. Jefchak calmly Mollie Murphy 
our sense of responsibility and yes on the referendum to Leming laughingly replied, "I
requested that The Observer 
sensitivity to need. boycott Campbell's and Libby don't think that's a correct Kathleen H. Moriartymake some effort to downplay 
products on campus. . statement at all.'' Andrew A. CuomoThat same appeal to humanthe sexual stereotyping which is sensitivity and responsibilityrampant on the Notre Dame 
campus. 
Now, this sounded like a reasonable request to me and I was impressed with the finesse 
I'M SO?RY, I'V/3 LOOK, JlJ5T
with which Ms. Jefchak tackled 
N£1/fR. HEARJ1 OF R£AfJ H/9 
a touchy subject around here. JOHN ~N. fLIER., Cl'diY? 
Obviously, Mr. Gerry dis­{ &51J6, IM PRET-WHirr W YOU agrees with me. But if he was ~ TY IIPOL-mCAL. HA~ 70 fl}SC? dtsturbed by Ms. Tefchak' s 
letter, couldn't he have found a mo~e mature way to express his feelt~gs? . Openly harrassing and tnsultmg Ms. Jefchak is hardly a valid response. 
Perhaps the fact that_ Mr. Gerry reacted as he did only strengthened the case Ms. Jef­chak presented in her letter. It sounded as if Mr. Gerry was insinuating that "there is no 
Daniel T. Sherlock
We also contacted the office of 
Judith A. McMorrow
Joe Lehner 
Ms. Rosa We!ner, the director 
~5/GH'.. OKAY, IF YOU /fl/56!.. HMM•. HMM.. 
.. UH·HUH.. 
\ 

-_-:Th=:--e----:Q::':'b_s_erver---a~dm~i~ni~st~ra.. -Bo--ard--an--d-D_e_p_artm_e_n_t_M_an-~-ae_rs___,~
_____ r~io!l"'n-o-:f=-e~ith:-e-r---:-in-sr"":"'it-u~tio-n-._____E_d_i-to_r_ial-. __ 
The n~ws. is reported as_ accurately and ~ as obJectively a~ possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ... , .... Rosemary Mills Sports Edztor ........... .......Mark Pdr-; represe~t the opmton of a majority of Managing Edztor . . , . . . . Diane Wilson Features Edt/or .....Karhleen Conric:llv 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Edttonal Board. Commentaries Editorial Editor .... ,......... Ann Gales Photo Editor .............. Doug Chri~tii~ opinions and letter~ are the views of Senior Copy Edrtor ......... M. Onufrak 
Th.e Observer is an inde~ndent their authors. Column space is avail­Executi~·e News Ediior .. , ... Mike Lewis Business Ma.nage1...... Steve Odla~d newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor.................... Mark Rust ProductiOn Matr.ager .... J uho McGrli~h of the University of Notre Dame du lac an~ .the free expression of varying News Editor ................. Mike Shields ~dvertising Manager ..~ike Holsinger and Saint Mary's College. It does not optntons on campus, through letters, is 'SMC News Editor ........Margie Brassil Lf..!ntrolltjr............... ...Kevtn Manion necessarrily reflect the policies of the encouraged. Czrculatwn Manager ..... .Greg Hedges 
-··· 

J 
) " 
The Observer Wednesday, February 20, 1980-page 8 
Canada re-elects Trudeau to office 
TORONTO (AP) -The return 2, 142,054, for 19.8 percent. 
of the ''new'' Pierre Elliott Trudeau, 60, comes back ro 
Trudeau to power may herald a the prime ministry at a time 
perceptible Canadian shift to when. such U.S. presidential 
rhe left and away from the candidates as Ronald Reagan 
United States. and Edmund G. Brown are 
The two North American touting a U.S.-Canadian-Mex­neighbors remain the "greatest ican ''Common Market'' as a friends,'' Trudeau says. But solution to some of the contin­he has made clear that his enr · s economic woes -particu­Liberals will not necessarily larly energy problems. hew to the staunchly pro-U.S. Many Canadians view this as policies pursued by Prime a plan to raid their vast re­
Minister Joe Clark's Conserva­sources. 
tive government, ousted in Fricrion · already exists tnMonday's parliamentary elec­U.S. -Canadian relations overtion. 
economic and environmentalFinal rerurns from the elec­

ISSUeS.

tion show the Liberals won a Canada is threatening to gomajority of 146 seats in the to the World Court if the Senate.282-seat House of Commons, to refuses to ratify newly nego­103 for Clark's Progressive tiared fisheries and boundaryConservatives and 32 for the rrearies. And Canadian ecolo­socialist New Democrats. The gists, fearful of coastal oilrace for one seat is postponed spills, are outraged over theuntil March because of a candi­Clark government's agreementdate's death. 
to allow increased traffic of U.S. 

New facts arise in Pinto trial
Clark had gained power only tankers carrying Alaskan oil
n1ne months ago, ending Trudeau's II years as prime down Canada's west coast. WINAMAC, nd. (AP) -A ding the van's driver, who all one of the victims told him the 
estimated the van was traveling Pinto was stationary when theminister in an election that Clark was the first Western research engineer testified in about 50 mph. van struck it.
gave the Conservatives a leader to endorse the U.S. idea the Ford Motor Co. trial yester­U6-114 minority edge in of boycoHing the Moscow day that damage to the 1973 Five of those witnesses said When questioned about Commons. But Conservative summer Olympics in retaliation Pinto involved in a fatal Indiana the Pinto was traveling from 15 Schultz's qualifications for de­
to 20 mph at the time of the termining speed of impact from tax increases led to a no-confi­for the Soviet move into crash indicates it was stopped and the van that rammed it crash. car damage, Neal said, "If you<knce vote in Parliament -and a Afghanistan. He put his gov­from behind was traveling 60 Chief Ford attorney]ames F. had spent 25 years desi~ningnew election. ernment to work scouting sites Neal, who said in his opening vehicles that's expenence
With all but one percent of 111 Canada for a substitute ''free mph. Monday's popular vote world games.'' Declaring that The testimony from former arguments he would attempt to enough." counted, the Liberals had "strength prevents war," he Chrysler Corp. employee]ames prove the Pinto was stopped Earlier yesterday, a Ford en­4, 749,886 votes, or 43.9 per­vowed to boost defense spend­Schultz refuted earlier testimo­when hit from behind, has gineering executive who helped cent, and the New Democrats mg. ny of seven witnesses, inclu-argued that the Pinto withstood design the Pinto subcompact 

an  LENTEN SCRIPTURE DISCUSSION  
CC!R)PUSm1n1Stry  Today  
WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 20  
6:15-7:15pm  

Badin Hall Chapel &Breen Phillips Chapel 
.. 
' --..,.... 

SKIBOYAL 
Royal Valley Ski Besort Buchanan, Michigan (616) 698-8847 
OLOS:Bft SKI ABBA !0 RDISMO 17 mUes from camvus 
2 QUAD CRAIB LiftS 
WeJUStmight 
· tieonypur 
hail ... 

Career Opportunities dt Vepco. 
If you are unable to talk with us during our recruiting visit to your campus, please send your resume to: Proressionai Recruiting, VIrginia Electric and Power Company, Box 2666, Richmond. Virginia 23161 
Look for a challenging career with Vepco-an equal opportunity employer 
VIrginia Dedrk and Power Company, Rkhmond, VIrginia 23261 
Vepco 
the crash as well as any testified he considered the car subcompact could if it were hit safe enough to buy one for his at high speeds. 18-year-old daughter. 
''This car structure did quite well in light of the speeds Francis G. Olsen, assistant involved,'' Schultz said, who chief engineer in charge of 
worked 24 years for Chrysler design for Ford, said he bought Corp. ''There was a closing a 1973 Pinto that his daughter 6peed of 60 mph. The van was drove for a year. He sold the going 60 mph faster than the car and bought a 1974 Pinto Pinto. The Pinto was stopped.'' that he kept for two years, 
Schultz is the second wttness Olsen said. to testify that the Pinto was Chief defense attorney]ames stopped at the time of the F. Neal said Olsen's testimony crash. Last week a hospital indicated that Ford engineers orderly, Levi Woodard, said thought they were designing a 
safe car in the Pinto. 
''Do you think a man would be acting in plain, conscious, unjustified disregard of harm if 
.. . Iran 

he gave his 18-year-old daughter a Pinto to drive?" Neal asked reporters rhetoric­
[continued from page 1) 

ally. "If he thought that, heshah. That, too, a~peared to be must have hated his daughter."
a marked change 10 tone. 

Olsen told prosecutor
As commander-in-chief, Bani­Michael A. Cosentino he wouldSadr may be able to put down have had the car rerairedethnic unrest in Iran, where immediately if he stil hadrebels have been battling the owned it when Ford announcedcentral government for more in June 1978 a retail of 1. 5autonomy in the provinces. 

million Pintos and MercuryThe army was in chaos Bobcats made between 1971during the revolution andhas and 1976 because of fireremained badly disorganized, hazards in the fuel systems.
leaving most power with the Olsen also said he makesRevolutionary Committees and $94,000 a year and received aRevolutionary Guards, which $60,000 [rofit-sharing bonusoften clash with the rebellious from For in 1968.

minorities in many of Iran's provinces. The investigative panel, chosen by U.N. Secretary-Gen­

Fire hits 
eral Kurt Walkheim and approved by both Iran and the United States, has been consid­

Farley
ered one step in a package of . requirements leading to release of the hostages, who spent their 108th day in captivity yes­

laundry room 
terday. 

There was a small fire in aDespite contradictory signals dryer at Farley hall Monday
from Iranian officials and the militants in recent days, offic­around noon, according to Sr. ials in Washington, speaking Jcan Lenz, hall director. A privately Monday, said the serviceman was working on a delicate diplomatic process was dryer at the time, but probably continuing on course. did not cause the fire. There 
No timetable has been was smoke present in the announced, but Waldheim was stairway because of its close quoted by Vienna's Die Presse proximity to the laundry room, 
newspaper as saying the inves­but there was no damage

tigation would take one to two reported.

weeks. 



The Observer -Sports Wednesday, February 20, 1980 -page 9 
... Draft 
[continued from page 1) 
Inherently Other--the dehum­inization of the enemy." 
Toohey described the self­loathing that resulted from participating in the Marines as well as his choice to reconsider and commit himself to Christ­ianity. 
Yoder spoke about three thought patterns that he said had existed across the centur­
-tes. j·'When a Christian says he can't accept military service," Yoder explained, "he is acting either as the heroic individual; as a member of a religious sect that officially prohibits partici­pation in war; or as a selective conscientious objector.'' The heroic individu~,'' Yoder said, "takes a stance by himself. He does not explain himself in systematic terms. He just says, '[can't."' 
... Blue Demons 
[continued from page 12] 
Even more surprisingly, the student body and campus seemed as unaffected by suc­cess as the team. The students seem as laid back on campus as they appear spirited at the games. Except for a couple No. I signs in scattered dorm windows, there was no obvious advertisement of their elite rating. I only saw one DePaul T-shirt in the cafeteria, and two simply worn "DePaul Blue Demons-#I" buttons. The student body is proud of their team and their school, but they let their record do the talking, not themselves. 
A quote in The DePaulia, the campus newspaper, struck me in particular. The first conces­sion to marketing and business had just been made at DePaul with the announcement that all home games were being moved to Chicago's 18,000-seat Horizon arena next year. 
... Garnes 
[continued from page 12] 
East Germany 14-13 in total medals and 6-4 in golds. Meanwhile, tiny Liechtenstein, a map-dot_ of the world globe, wrote some Winter Olympic hisrory of its own today. 
When Wenzel, leader of the men's giant slalom after the first heat, finished second be­hind Stenmark, it gave Liech­tenstein, a Western European country with a Jopulation of 20,000, its secon silver medal of these games. The first one, in the women's downhill, belongs to Andreas' older sister Hanni, and never before in Olympic history have a brother and sister both taken Alpine medals home. · 
Ulrich Wehling of East Germany raced to a record third straight Olympic gold medal in the Nordic combined event Tuesday and Frank Ullrich, another East German, won the 10 kilometer biathlon event. 
The East Gennan team of Hans Rinn and Norbert Hahn defended its 1976 Olympic title yesterday by winning the gold medal in the men's doubles luge with a combined time of 
1: 19. 33 in two runs down the 744-meter course. The Italian sled of Peter Gschnitzer and Karl Brunner was second and Austrians Georg Fluckinger and Karl Schrott were third. 
''The conscientious objector is a member of a religious denomination whose official position is pacificsm,'' Yoder said. 
''The Catholic church is not such a denomination--but you might be a member of a · sub-group such as the Catholic Workers' movement--which prohibits violence," Yoder exp plained. 
''The third and dominant position depends upon the Just War Theory," Yoder continu­ed. He said that the selective conscientious objector adopts not a pacifist position, but one of moral responsibility. 
"If the individual finds a war to be directed by legitimate authority, and for a just cause, and with some likelihood of success, he will participate in the violence, considered a regretable necessity.'' 
Yoder said that the Catholic Church calls for such case by case discrimination. 

Although both he and Toohey recognized a deficiency in the Church's official position against the draft, they said that some SJ?Okesmen have been outstanding. 
Toohey read a Jeerer sent to Tom Heil, organizer of the "Draft" series, on Jan. 25 by Bishop Thomas Gumbleton, president of Pax Christi-U.S.A. 
"The President's call for registration of all persons 18 to 26 will lead to military conscrip­tion. This is a first step toward preparing for war. War--espec­tally nuclear war--is an un­thinkable means of settling differences. I opposed any step that would lead people to believe otherwise. I am con­vinced that Catholics must take seriously Pope Paul's plea to the Umted Nation's: "War never again!" 

River City Records& Celebration Present 

--I I
with special guests 
Friday March 14 • 7:30pm Morris Civic Auditori~m 
ickets: $9. reserved ­
ticket' go on sale Sat. Feb. 9 at 10:00am at all 4 River City fJeCords locatlott4.~flnlyl 
Rather than the possessive, selfish response that might be expected from the students, their paper remarked that ''one thing we should have realized by now is that our no. I team is everybody's No. 1 team and we must learn to share our Blue Demons, not only with the rest of Chicago, but with other followers across the country. " 
DePaul's location is even a further tribute to its resistance of arrogance and snobbishness. In a city like Chicago, which is virtually dying for a winner, it would be very easy for DePaul to boast of its success and capitalize on it because there would always be plenty of fans who would soak it up. 
Granted, DePaul is beginn­ing to succumb to the commer­cialism associated with being No. 1. It has been forced to contract with new souvenir manufacturers only in an effort to force those who are peddling copied and non-trademarked Blue Demon memorabilia out of making profits from DePaul's success. It still has a bookstore (for twice as many students) where souvenirs and clothes have not pushed the books onto the second floor, and the fans .still boo at games when the application procedure for sea­son tickets at the Horizon next year is announced. 

At the bottom line, DePaul basketball is based on having fun. Fans, coaches ahd players all managed to work the word "fun of the game" into conver­sations we had with them, even when we did not allude to any such description. 
I hope -that DePaul does not go the way of so many other schools who have gloated over their greatness.. The program at DePaul is a refreshing study in the purity of college basketball and all athletics. DePaul dc;:monstrated the way college athletics are meant to be played: for the enjoyment of both player and fan alike. 
I've seen the past of college basketball and it is alive and well at Alumni Hall. I just hope their species does not become extinct. 
Martin offto Oakland? 
NEW YORK (AP) -Billy Bloomington, Minn., hotel. Martin remained a $125,000-a­The Yanks say the fight violated year non-person Tuesday with a provision in the contract and the New York Yankees, and the that their obligation to him Oakland A's remained without en~ed at that point. It is a manager for the 1980 season. beheved they have not paid 
Charles 0. Finley, owner of Martin since last December. Athe A's, is said to be interested hearing on that matter will be in Martin, among others, to conducted March 6 by Ameri­take over the reins of his team ­can League President Lee Mac­but George Steinbrenner, own­Phail. 

er of the Yankees, reportedly is A source close to the scenebalking at the prospect of said Martin could accept an.

paying a healthy chunk of other job in the Yankees'Martin's salary for the next two organization and would be paid years if he signs with the A's. 

his $125,000 a year-but that he Eddie Sapir, Martin's lawyer wants the job of managing theand a New Orleans district A's. That position, however,court judge, said yesterday. 
could pay as little as one-half"We are still considering sev­his current contract · perhapseral options. I had hoped to even less. And if MacPhailhave an announcement today rules next month that thebut I can't be sure, now." 
Yankees' are obligated to payHe also . said Martin's job Martin for the length of theprospects weren't limited to contract, they would have toOakland. ''There could be a make up the difference between different opportunity,'' Sapir Martin's salary from the A'ssaid. "I have been talking to :md the $125,000, 'George Steinbrenner: for the 
last two months about what Finley, the source also said, 
could be done to help Billy." reportedly is considering ] oe 
Martin, who has two years Sparks, who is slated to manage remaining on his estimated Omaha of athe American As­$125,000-a-year contract, was sociation, a Kansas City Royals flred by Steinbrenner last Octo· farm club, this year. Sparks ber, a few days• after getting spent nine years as a minor into a fight with a marshmallow lea~ue manager in the Chicago salesman in the bar of a Whtte Sox system. 
'.
'... ~ 
The Observer -SportsBoard Wednesday, February 20, 1980 -page 10 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL HOCKEY POLL Canadtan Gaetan Boucher. who skated Mark Johnson. a young sk1 Jumper from wttll Hetder in the first pair. won the Duluth. M1rn . was released from Lake
Basketball Alcorn St 108. S. Carolina St. 77 Hancock. Mich.--The Top 10 in college ,rlvRr me·: .. · with a time of 1·16.68 Fr•k;e Placid Memo<~al Hospital yesterday aftflr L,;ng !stand 62. Fordnam 55 iwckey. as comp1led by WMPL radio witn R•Jenntng of Norway and. Vladimir . 11e wds InJured 1n a sptll from the 70 meter Rhode. Island 7 t. Brown 67 1tr s: place votes tn parentheses and total L,,oanov of the Sovtet Un1on were tied for 01y111p1c sk1 Jump, the Olympic medical 
The AP Top Twenty R1ce 81. Houston 74 QOintS. tile oronze wtth 1'16.91 olfice satd St John's 63. Temple 58 (OT) Pe1er Mueller. the Ameman wno won 
rhe LaKe Ptacld OlympiC OrganiZing 
fhe Top Twenty teams tn The St Joseph ·s. Pa .. 54. Providence 52 t Northern Michigan (6) 96 Ihe gold in the 1.000 in 1976 and who held Commiltee med1ca1 ott1ce sa1d Johnson Assoctated Press college basketball Texas 76. Texas Tech 63 2 North Dakota (4) 92 the old record of 1:19.32. was fifth today ~uttered a mmor bone injury in his back. poll, w11h first-place votes m paren­rexas A& M 57 Texas Christ tan 48 3 Boston College 82 Wllh 1.17.11 theses. records and Iota\ points. 4. Provtdence 57 Heiden joins Norwegians lvar
Tuesday's NBA Scores 5 Michigan
Po1n1s based on 20-f9-18-17-etc 56 Ballangurd and Hjalmar Andersen and 
6. Minnesota 40
1 DePaul (54) 23-0 1,080 Dulchman Ard Schenk as triple gold On the Air 
New York 113. Portland 103 7 Dartmou,h 31
2 LOUISVIlle 25-2 976 medal w1nners in speed skating. The 
Cleveland 128. Phoenix 109 8. Ohio State
3. Kentucky 24 4 914 29 ·previous three triples came in 1936. 1952 College basketball--Notre Dame at Xavier. 
4 Syracuse 22-2 902 Chicago 115, Seattle 106 9. Vermont 21 and 1972. 
WSND-AM 640. with Paul Stauder and 5 LOUISiana St. 20-4 832 New Jersey 123, San Diego 113 10. NOTRE DAME to· Heiden could win an unprecedented
I Frank LaGrotta. 7:30p.m.
6' Oregon St. 23-3 722 four men's medals Thursday in the 1.500. 
SPORTLINE: WSND-AM 640, with Brian7 St. John's. N.Y. 21·3 656 Beglane and Greg Meredith, 11-12 p.m.
8 N. Carolina 19-5 613 A fiag-waving man removed from the 9 Maryland , 19-5 585 Olympic Fieldhouse was taken into cus­
Hockey Olympics·
10. Notre Dame 19-4 549 Jody because he allegedly had stolen the -1. Ohio St. 11-6 509 flag two hours earlier. police said Transactions
12. 
Clemson 18-6 420 Tuesday's N H L Scores by the Associated Press Tuesday.

13. 
Missouri 20-4 399 ThomasJ. Miller, of Clifton Park, N.Y ..

Eric Heiden of Madison. Wis.. won his BOSTON (AP)-Stan Papi, a reserve

14. 
Bngham Young 20-4 389 Washington 3, Montreal 1 was waving the 15-by-25 foot American

lhird gold medal of the XIII Winter lnftelder who had filed for arbitration. has

15. 
Purdue 16-7 246 Hartford 6. Edmonton 2 flag Monday night with the help of another

Olympics yeslerday, setting an Olympic agreed to contract terms, the Boston Red

16. 
Weber St. 23-2 235 Toronto 6, NY Islanders 4 spectalOr. authorities said. He was

record in teh 1.000-meter speed skating Sox said Tuesday.

17. 
Duke 18-7 212 Minnesota 4. Atlanta 4 removed from the United States-Romania 

·race in one minute, 15.18 seconds. The terms were not announced. Papi,

18. 
Amana St. 19-5 202 Buffalo 3. Quebec 1 hockey game and charged with petty


Heiden. 21. becomes the fourth man to 28. who batted .188 in 50 games for Boston
19 lndtana 16-7 194 Colorado 8. Philadelphia 6 larceny. according to a statement the 
20. Washington St. 19-4 125 S:. Louis 3. Vancouver 1 wm three gold .medals in a single police issued yesterday. las. season. was acquired from Montreal Olympics. for lefl·h~nder Bill Lee. 
Molarity 

... 

The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 

THE BIGGEST AND THE BEST... AND STILL N0.1 
NOTREDAMEACC 61sboios 
Wed., Thurs. Bpm 
Fri. 4:30and 8:30pm 
Sat 1 O:OOam & 2:00pm 
PRICES: 
14.50-$6.00-17J)() 
nCKETSONSALB ACCBOXOPPICIJ 
.. .............. 
by Michael Molinelli 

ACROSS  25 Non com­ 46 Swap  23 Harmonious  
Animal's  pos­ 48 In excess  relation­ 
place  28 Supply with  52 Plane  ship  
5  Move in  critical  person  25 Of cheeks  
opposition  remarks  56 Ritual  26 Choice part  
10  "I've got - 33 Succulent  mover  27 Wanderer  
14  of living..." British  plants 34 "Lady of -"  58 King of the Huns  29 "For want of a-..."  
queen  35 Bikini top  59 Escargot  30 Cut short  
15  Metal  36 Ade fruit  60 Caesarean  31 Crossbeam  
mixture  37 Theme  words  32 Cafe patron  
16  Branches  38 Gravy or  61 Chimney  34 Achy  
17  Going,  steam  dirt  37 Mediterra­ 
going, going  39·-Joss 40 Given by  62 Muslim judges: var.  nean tree 38 Deprived  
20  -out  word of  63 Easy-it  by loss  
(endured)  mouth  40 Flower part  
21  Peachlike  41 Chutzpah  DOWN  41 Lowest  
fruit  42 Saviour  1 Circuits  point  
22  Satrap  44 Kind of  2 Once again  43 -de corps  
24  Hirt and  snake  3 Regarding  44 Chairmen's  
Pacino  45 A.A. stop  4 Witty reply  items  
5 Badgers'  47 Wheel  
kin  spokes  
6 Sidestep  48 ''-the  
7 -king  night  
8 Soft drink  before..."  
9 Resembling  49 "-be in  
a drum  England..."  
10 Dali or  50 Fodder pit  
Miro  51 Sicilian  
11 Not of the  resort  
clergy  53 European  
12 Melville  leader  
opus  54 Bone: comb.  
13 Color  form  
18 Needle  55 Poison ivy  
cases  genus  
19 Synthetic  57 Tribe of  
fiber  Israel  

DON'T STAY ATHOMETONIGHTII OUT THIS STUDENT SPECIAL WED &THURS AT THE RAMROD BAR 4-7ozbeers for S1.00 
(while supplies last) pool, pinball and jukebox 
bring your id 
RAMROD 511 5 MICHST DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 


Problems in 
Lake Panic, N.Y. 
LAKE PLACID, N.Y. (AP) -A veteran Italian newspaperman, frustrated with transportation, security and other headaches at athe XIII winter Olympic Games, grumbled, "This is the second worst event I've ever been associated with." 
"Really?" said a companion. "What was the worst?" 
"World War II." 
The hard-bitten, cynical inter­national press corl.'s has rever­ted to humor in Jts effort to weather the bus delays, police arrogance and other organiza­tional foulups that have turned Lake Placid's winter wonder­land into a nightmare. 
The more suffering spectators have found it less funny. 
Around the press center, set up at a high school, newsmen have made a game of descri­bing their problems of the mismanaged spectacle. Some­times their subtle complaints sound like a duel of one-liners between Don Rickles and Rod­ney Dangerfield in Las Vegas. 
Some British newsmen are housed in the Hillside Sanitari­um, a former TB hospital where the legendary baseball pitcher, Christy Matthewson died. 
''How do you like it?'' one was asked. 
"Oh, it's jolly OK," was the reply, "But we hear phantom coughs in the night." 
Arrows at the opening cere­
mony  stadium  point  to  the  
grave  of  ] ohn  Brown,  the·  
abolitionist.  

''He must have died waiting for a bus,'' somebody cracked. 
East Germans, reputedly dour and uncommunicative, came up with one of the more hilarious observations. 
r'The only amateurs around here,'' one of them was quoted as saying, "are the organi­zers.'' 
A Dallas newsman is dateli­ning his dispatches, "Lake Panic, N.Y." 
Two New York columnists left the Olympics last weekend, apparently headed for the warmer climes of Florida and baseball training. 
"How did they get out of Lake Placid?" someone asked, recal­ling that this is a sealed-off city. 
''They were smu~gled out by the Canadians, ' another quipped. 
One fabricated report was that the luge competition was post­poned because of a head-on collision on the chute. 
One pundit sug~ested that, now that the !raman situation appears near solution, Presi­dent Carter should address himself to freeing the hostages in the Olympic press center . 
'' 
.. 

The Observer Wednesday, February 20, 19SO -Page 11 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Obsamr office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail.
Classifieds 
Notices 
New Jersey Club bus for spring break 
, is now taking reservations. Call Chris at 1178 or Kevin at 1166 for more info. 
Tuesday Is ND-SMC Day at Royal Valley Ski Resort! 2 for 1 lift tickets 3-10 pm, also 2 for 1 7·10 pm. M-Tu-Th. 2chair lifts. Closest ski area to camlpus. Buchanan, Michigan. 
'Typrng in my home. 277-3085. Call ne. ween 8:00 and 7:00. 
FLORIDA SUNSHINE EXPRESS Leave Notre Dame circle 6:00 pm March 27th-Arrive Daytona Beach apprmoma~ely 3:00 pm March 28th. Drnner-r es< stops enroute. Leave Oeser. Inn Hotel 7:00 pm April 7th. An rve No.re Dame approximately 4:00 pm Ap111 8.h. 
P. rce mcludes transportation ONLY' $16!.J.OO per person-$50.00 deposit to h1Hd your reservation--balance due Marc11 15.h. fr dnspor.auon via air conditioned­res roiJin equrpped luxury coach. Call RAINBOW TRAVEL. 301 N. Michigan P.ymou.h. ln. 46563. 219-936-5678. DON f WAif* CALL NOW' 
Lost&Found 
L 1s . Gold hear: initials A. H. If l1und. please call 3016 (Barna). 
F 'und.  Srlver watch ..  Call  1078  to  
ulcn.rly  
L 1S  .  black  wallet.  Lost  near  

r·r~t--eward. Call Brll 6756. 
F .unCI. 1 parr of long brown leather \Fwes a. Junror Class formal. Call t ld9 .o rden.rfy. 
$ ,u rcwar d for the return of a 30" 14K. o•rx lrnk c11arn. No ques:ions asked. Po~ .y 41-4332. 
L 1s . MrnoLa SRT-100X camera and Mrn<JI.a Au.o Flash. Hel:y reward and rl'l dumiJ ques.ions. Please call Mike 
a 1)/l'.J 
L·IS . 3 •. hdrn gold bracelet. If found. pi!!Jse call41·4146. Bracelet has great Sl!ll rmen.al value. 
L1s . Brown suede coat with hood. lost SJ. nrg11: a: Mardi Gras. Pockets C•lll drned keys. money. and glasses. Predse call Dave at 1177. 
L·1s. Cdlcula:or: Texas Instruments SR 51-11. Kevrn 7374. 
L"s . A frg~ berge suede jacket. Has h'I<Jd and is lrned with fur. Missing l:nm Keenan-Walsh booth at Mardi G:ds Sa.urday Night. Will oiler $30 lt'Ndrd for i:s return. Call Ruben ani.1111e a. 3273. 
bs : A heavy rust-red winter jacket I'Jm Mardr Gras. Reward. Tom 1811. 
F rund: 1OK gold ring. Says FME 1\JBO. Found on NO Ave. near G·rose·s. Please claim in Manager's ollrce rn LaFor:une. 
For Rent 
F<~r Ren: · 4.h grrl needed al NO Apts. 
CJII 234-7220 
We ren: dependable cars from $7.95 a day and 7 cents a mile. Ugly Duckling Ren,-A·Car. 921 E. Jefferson Blvd .. Mrs11. Ind. 255-2323. 
Two roomma:es needed for large off c~rnpus house. Male or female. Ever y.hrng furnished except personals $120/$130 per month. Call 289·01 03 nri.jll:S. 
Wanted 
·t need a rrde from West Palm Beach area after break. Call Briget 8056 
I need a nde to Atlanta at Spring Break. Call Bndget 8056. 
Rrde needed to Chicago--afternoon of March 5. Mark 4609. 
oNE-FEMAu-~N~o--IN 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS. $100 PER MONTH. CALL ANNE· 
7884. 
Need rrde to Buflalo or St. Boneven­tur e any:ime. Lrsa 8144. 
Need rrde to Ohio State U. or Toledo, Ol1. weekend of Feb. 22. Call Maria 6925. 
Ride needed to Miami of Ohio on Fri. Feb. 22. Call Mary Kay 8145. 
Need rrde lo Detroit area Feb. 29. Will pdy. Call41-4111. 
Need rrde to S:. Louis area weekend of 2·22. Call Vrvian 277-47114 
For Sale 
Flash Pl10:ographic equipment for SJie .. ian :as. rc bargains! --cameras. 
lenses.  Call 232-4129.  
Sale  on  all  books  in  our  literature  
soction.  New  and  used  titles--25  

pm:ent oil. Pandora's Books, 937 S. Bend Ave. 
Tickets 
t3 ·u:. drugs. or big bucks for 2 GA o.:Paul trcke:s. Call Matt DeSalvc ,'Jl 6050. 
Need student and GA tix for DePaul bball game. Paul 3121. 
Need GA tix to any home bball game 
Paul 3121. 
2 Marqueue GA's needed. Big bucks. C411 Cl1rrsm. 
Money is no object. Need two Mar que::e GA ·s for Junior Parents 'Neekend. Call 8437 or 8436 after rnrdmght. 
Need many DePaul GA tix. $$$. Call 8436 or 8437 after midnight. 
Please help! Parents coming to N0 and would love to see Marquette game. Good money for two GA's. Julie 2194. 
$$Need many Marquette tix. Call John 7443 after 6:30. $$$ 
Desperately need 2 GA Marquette tix. 
Call Sandy 1276. 
Oshkosh partiers desperately need Marqueue ux. Call JCZ 234-6348. 
Need 2 Marquet~e GA 's for my parents only chance to see an N D basketball game1 Call Bob 8538. 
Need Marquette tickets. Call Kathy SMC 5135. 
Help1 Desperately need several GA Marque!le tickets. Joe 1644. 
Need 2 GA Marquette tix. Nick 233-6249. 
Busrnessmen need DePaul GA 's wrlling to pay corporateSdollars. Call Greg or Eddy 1757. 
Free Cash--1 desperately need 2 (just 
2) tickets to the Marquette game. Money no object. Call Maureen at 
8027 
Help' Truckload of guys coming down for Marqueue game. Need tickets. Money's no object. Call Brad 3128 or Dennrs 3131. 
Must have Dayton (5) and N C State(1) ux. Please help. 41-5710. 
Will pay mega$$$ for 2 GA Marquette :rckels. Karen 6798. 
Need lrckets to'the Marquette game on :he 24:h ol Feb. Mike 8501. 
Need 3 Marquette GA tix. Any price. 
r.~11 Dave 1133 
Rich graduate '61 needs DePaul tix 161. Call 272-5744. 
Need 1 DePaul ticket.· GA or student. Call Kerry 7873. 
Desperately need DePaul student and GA s. Call Leo 1871. 
Wanted: 2 GA Marquette tickets. Name your price. 282-1734after 6 pm. 
Need 4 Marquette tickets. Friends from Indy have to see an N D game. Ralph 7912. 

'I need 2 GA's to Marquette game. Will pay your price. Anna 41-5322. 
I need 5student tickets to Marquettte. Brg $$$$. Please call Joe 8192. 
I need many Marquette b·ball tixs. Call Tim 8693. 
Help! We are in dire straits. Need many GA or student tickets for 
Marquette game. Mike 3406.  Call Dan 8998  or  
Desperately  need  2  G A  tickets  to  

Marquette. Dad's birthday Saturday and I have no present for him. Will ~rade s~udent ticket for Marquette and DePaul and$$$ or just$$$. Call Marty 1684. 
Desperately need 1-2 student tix for Marquette. Call John 1143. 
Need 2-4 GA's to Marquette or DePaul. Will pay good $$$. Call Joe a. 3439. 
Wanted: 1 GA ticket for the DePaul game. Money's no object. Call Pat 8710. $$$ 
Need 1 Marquette GA. Willing to ~rade student ticket or pay $$. Call 7921. 
I need 2 GA tickets to DePaul game. Will pay your price. Anna 41-5322. 
Need tix for Marquette game. Pay top $. Call 8959. 
Need 2 Marquette and/or 2 DePaul ax. Call Cindy 277-3540. 
Need 2 Marquette tix. Bob 1811. 
I need tickets for the DePaul game. 1-4 ei~her student or GA Will pay your prrce. Call AI 1156. 
Need 1 Student DePaul ticket. Any prrcell Call Tim 8605. 
S udent ticket for Marquette and DePaul for sale. Stan 1879. 
Personals 
CELIBACY BREEDS WISDOM 
Even though he's 21--we can rest 
assured that Greg Knafelc is still 
WISE. 
Hurry and sign up now for your "Are 
You Celibate-Greg Knafelc is" t· 
sl1ir:s. Call 283-1658 to obtain yours 
now! 
Happy Birthday Greg! Hope you've enjoyed your birthday abuse. 
ILYMB Patti! 
Russell-Believe it or not, we will miss you' Have a good time on the boat. Mr. Bojangles 
Yes--you can be a part of An Tostal!! Share in the wildest, zaniest, craziest ad~enture of spring semester. Organi­zationil meeting Sunday, Feb.24, 7:00 pm in LaFortune Theater. Everyone Welcome. No experience necessary!! See you there! 
SENIOR CLASS PUNK-OUT HAPPY HOUR AT BRIDGET'S* FRIDAY FEB 22. 4-8 PM. 
WATCH ANNE O'ROURKE LOSE IT AT THE PUNK-OUT HAPPY HOUR* FRIDAY* 31. TO -PM. BRIDGET MCGUIRES. 
Snake, Harne. Marg. Leboeuf, Mags, Sl1aron. Drane. Barf, Mo an.d Co .. Thanks for a great birthday' You guys are the best1 Mabelle 
P.S. Can I still collect birthday kisses? 
leir~:-------------­
Thanks for going through all the trouble in gettrng the typewriter. you're too good to me. 
Malt 

Bob, Happy brrthday, tax. Love. Kerry 
P.S. Drive. drive. 
Lost. One Peggerita. Last seen heading toward Wisconsin. Red top, bottom barely there. If found, please return to Belharoo and Beasel at Tommy Baby's (after office hours). 
Laura, Patty, Ker, Panama Red's never had such great Pangborn needs any musicians. but especially guitarists and flutists, and singers, especially girls to help with music for Sunday masses. Call Dan 8360. 
Charles "Hollywood" Oyer for UMOC Chucky is Yucky 
Dear Bob B.. C.S.C.--Stop Holy-Cross hogging this personals column! 
Keep 0-C part of N-D, Vote Lohmuller 0-C Commissioner. 
Have you been to the Commonwealth 
ye~? 
Ceil, Thanks ever so much for the candy. Love the Obser~er 
· o the 3 studs from Morrissey, Thanks for the time of our lives. fhe wild women on 2nd floor LeMans 
Jane, If you get drafted. 1won't be looking tor the whites of your eyes. Jer Bear 
Mary-Sue and Darlehe 
Thanks for my best Mardi Gras ever. Somehow you mad all that losing a pleasure. 
Don 
cxrled under the Llama Act of 1976, Bolivia's Grossest National Product is here .• Pablo is disgusting. 
far a Kenney. Happy Valentine's Day. ton amour de Carroll 
Yesterday was Tom "Gatta Finda Woman" Eichelberger's birthday, he wrll be accepting belated calls and krsses forever. from Organic and Bio. lab partners, women with strange nicknames and any girls in pre-med that play backgammon (Beth p). Sorry no calls from Ralphs or Ruperts accepted. 
All my students: soap operas live at NO stay tuned. 
My dearest Cliff Warner: Gee isn't life swell! Nina Courtland 
Erica Cuttihee: How would I know Disco would die? Phoebe 
Attention Please: Yesterday was Tom Eichelberger's birthday. If you haven't already aaacked hifll, pleasetlo so. 'Also, this weekend is Chicago vs. Atlanta, once again. 
Call tim Ronan 1657 and wish him happy birthday or deliver gifts In person to 207 Dillon. 
Join the Janie Byrne VP committee. It looks good on a resume. 
Tired of that limp, mousy hair color? This year do it right. Hennalucent puts vibrant color, super softness, and electrifying shine into the hair, or ask for no color change super gloss. Both add full body too. For men and women. Lasts for months! Call Armando's 277-0615. Ask for Kim. 
Zoo-2. Tl1anks for being so sweet and taking care of mer Love, Jeanne 
Bets. 
Thanks tor all the Kroger and Huddle runs. These along with your cheerful dispositon helped to hurry my [ecovery. You're a great roommate. 
The Corpse 
i-~-~l:y_~~---------
Pul a lillie romance rn your life. Venture over to Carroll Hall (SMC) and see .. A Little Romance'·. Fr i; Sat 
7.9.11 pm. 
"(..Little Romance" will put asmile on your lace and a tin(lle in your heart. Carroll Hall (SMC). Fri., Sat. 7,9,11 om. 
3UMMER TRAVEL IN EUROPE* LON DON PROGRAM with travel 1n Ireland, Scotland, England. and France. ROME PROGRAM with travel in France. Germany, Switzerland. and Italy. College courses available in EDUC* History, Italian, and Soc. For info call Prof. A.R. Blach, SMC 4948. At home 272-3726. 

Bill, 
You'd better start taking care of yourself' Look who's sick now! Get well soon. 
Love, Cece 

Master GEE: 
I know you've been waiting for this all week'! I guess you'll just have to sweat for another week. 
Bill's roommate 

Stan, 
Congratulations on a super med­school acceptance! You have made it to lhe top with all the style and class I have always admired you for! I'll miss you next year. 
Love. Nancy 

Thanks to all the dulles in Stanford who were considerate enough to remember their tun friends at Walsh·· sorry weweren't as thoughtful. Love. 4th floor Walsh 
P.S. Joe and Jing--was that you rocking on the van outside of Goose·s-­or was that deja·vu? 
Dear Mark (Bow). Happy belated B-day! Hope that it was fun packed r Love always, Cath 
---------~-----­
Does anyone know who Pete Heid's 
>ecret admirer is? dnving him crazy!  Call  him--it's  
For a Dancer: Thanks for the flower Browne' Love. Jackie  Jackson  
Secret Admirer (alias Jack):  

Maybe we can play blackjack some O<her time; Let ·s make a deal. ok? Love, "Little WAS" 
Russ Richards: 
Bon Voyage! Happy sailing! Watch for those girls in every port, but don't forget us 1 Love, Jackie, Loretta, Mary Beth. Monique, Pat, Peggy, and Sarah. 
Yes--You can still be a part of An Tostal!!! Organizational meeting Sun­day, Feb. 24th, 7:00 pm in LaFortune theater. No experience necessary. 
Dear BOOH: 
Just an old word (naturally) or ··Thanks" for all the smiles. Hope next time I can "Ditch" you out of trouble. 
The P 

Tim. Man,ny. and Jack-
So sorry you guys were missed in !'he personals on Valentine's Day--not luke your smooth roomie, Triz. Watch for St. Pat's Day personals (I'm sure!) 4th floor Walsh 
(wee ha!) 

YES* NOTRE DAME MEN-YOU CAN NOW RECEIVE THOSE "POOPER KISSES" THAT YOU HAVE BEEN CRAVING!' THEY ARE OF NEW YORK ORIGIN* TOO. CALL ROBIN AT 7850 FOR MORE INFORMATION. 
!lUZY Leyes: 
Congratulations on your accept~nce to MIT grad school! You'll be great as a nerd--you ask all the right questions' 'What's that?) 
Love you, Your lavorite freshman across the hall diagonally neighbor 
----------;--------­
Tim Ronan, Mr & Mrs Old Style heard that it was your 21st Birthday. They said that Jack Daniels will be by later to wish you a Happy Birthday and he's going to make sure that it will be a night you 'II never forget. The Skoals also send their best wishes ... 
Joe Philbrn­ls it really brgger than a breadbox sometimes?? 
The ESection 

Shaun F. from 10th floor Flanner, YES, I WILL' WILL YOU??? A deal's adeal you know' (I think Kimby will, too, so what do you say?) 
Gus. 
What's the scoop on skiing? 
KirnConvey is on drugs. I hope your Mom reads this. {oo. 
What do you call a row of 20 rabbits .that takes two steps backwards?????? A receding "hare" line. Just ask Prot. 
Milani. 
Overseas Jobs--Summer/year round. Need 1 Marquette GA tix. Call Mike advertisers. Pete·· To who ever stole my dinner tray in Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, at 1627. Goodyear Arriva Here is your very own personal! We South Dining Hall lasl night (turk;,. 
e:c. All fields, $500-$1,200 monthly. -----------------------------L b dressing, peas, one butter. and (.
Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free Need 2 GA tickets for Marquette. Call Sheila and Dennis wil see you Thursday in a ·-so expect milks) 1hope you urp~d, "'·Jhi ~~fa. Write 1-Jc Box 52-14, Corona Del Dave at 8696 or 8697. . CONGRATULATIONS! the worst!! ; • . 
._______________________________________-.-.v·~···•
,Vlar7't~:"'!!'Z625":---·--·------~ ·· .. Ailofusin·Badin -~----~l'-~...._.__._.:.::-_.::;~;~~~-!ltl--IPII·-""·,_• 



EDITOR'S NOTE: Observer reporters Bill Marquard and Gary Grassey spent two days in Chicago last weekend researching the DePaul basketball team. This is the first of a series of pieces previewing next Wednesday's clash between the top-ranked Blue Demons and the Fighting Irish. 
CHICAGO--DePaul University is just another stop on 
the El--in fact, the "DePaul University" sign at the 
Fullerton stop seem!> hardly more than an afterthought. 
It's a quiet, unassuming commuter school nestled almost 
anonymously on a few blo_cks of Chicago's near North 
Side. And, oh yea, they have the best college basketball 
team in the counrry--but you'd never know it while 
you're there. 
The brand new highway sign north of the Fullerton 
exit on the Kennedy expressway proclaiming 
DEPAUL UNIVERSITY NEXT RIGHT NUMBER-I 
was the work of an enthusiastic Chicago highway crew. 
The new sign was even a surprise to DePaul Athletic 
Director Fr. Robert Gielow. 
Walking into a virtually deserted Alumni Hall last 
Friday morning brought back many vivid memories; 
memories of high school basketbalf just a few years ago 
and memories of major college basketball the way it used 
to he: fun. Alumni Hall is college basketball without all 
the tinsel and glitter. It's where wins and losses are not 
measured in dollars and cents and where the athletic 
department even bas irs own budget. 
One of the smallest home courts in college basketball, 
it exudes the character that so many of the newer, sterile 
arenas lack. Alumni witnessed the glory ·years of DePaul 
basketball and the lean years of the early seventies, and 
it seems like every seat has a story to tell. 
Rows of worn down bench seats rise on both sides of the hall, while 12 rows of wooden bleachers are packed beneath .the stands on each side. There are only 36 padded seats, half of those reserved for the Vincentian priests. The balcony at the north end of the court advertises the DePaul Booster Club, a six-week old university institution, while the wall mounted score­boards at each end reminded me of many a high school gym. 
And on the court, ten commuter students took a few minutes off between classes to play a pickup game on the main, and only, court. The caliber of competition could hardly rival a first-round bookstore game, but they pl~yed like it was the NBA finals. They were out to enJoy. 
From the 40th row at the top of the stands through Coach Ray Meyer's office to the basement locker room, Alumni Hall is, in a word, relaxed. The pressure, and better yet, the glory, of being the acknowledged No. 1· team in college basketball has not affected it. Certainly it is proud, but not in the least egotistical. 
In fact, I think the only change that occured in Alumni Hall since the Blue Demons were crowned No. 1 was the 

Bill 

Marquard 
addition of the No. I lapel pins which a couple of Athletic 
Department secretaries and Father Gielow displayed 
unobtrusively. DePaul is not gloating over its ranking; 
they're just enjoying it as they enjoy their basketball. 
And the big~est reason why being No. 1 hasn't gone 
to the collective heads of the Blue Demon faithful is 
undoubtedly because of their head coach, Ray Meyer. 
Ray Meyer: 

... who only last year had to hire a secretary full time to 
help in his office. 
... who still works in the same panel-boarded office 
under the stands where he has worked since Alumni was 
built and who still puts up with the incessant click of racquetballs bouncing off the court wall which forms the back of his office. 
... who still takes time to autograph balls during practice and who has never closed a home practice to anyone from the media, opposing teams or neighborhood kids. 
... who still takes time to say a kind word to someone or sign an autograph as he walks out of the lockerroom at halftime. · 
... who never accepts credit for himself but is sure to praise his staff and players, particularly son Joey, for DePaul's success. 
... whose only regret is that he doesn't have as much time to spend with his players as he thinks they deserve. 
... who still eats in the same Seminary Restaurant a couple blocks from Alumni, a diner in front and a quaint lounge in back, where he has eaten for many a DePaul basketball season. 
... who, despite exhaustive interviews after practice and a basketball pme he had to scout in just over an hour (with dinner m between), still found time to talk to Gary Grassey and myself for a half hour and who would not leave until he was sure that we had the information we needed. 
... who still shakes his head in amazement and tells us that "Mark Aguirre came here." 
... who is everybody's idea of a grandfather whom the country fell in love with last year during the NCAA tournament . 
... who is still the modest Ray Meyer of 37 years ago and should be for years tb come. 
And Meyer's spirit has carried over to the team. After a grueling two hour practice, Clyde Bradshaw, reluctant as he is to be interviewed, nevertheless spent 20 minutes with us, and Aguirre could have spent all night on the steps talking, whether we were Sports Illustrated or the Observer. 
[continued on page 9] 

... tnodestly 

~ 
~ .. . •' 
' 
Rich Branning and the Insh will host Marquette 
Irish joun1ey to Cincinnati to face Xavier 
Sunday at the ACC. [photo by john Macor] by Mary Perry ern City Conference) under the averaging 18.2 points per game 122, in addition to scoring games, including a 29-point Sports Editor direction offirst-year coach Bob this season, one of four 6.8 ppg. performance against South Staak. Musketeer players scoring in With the Notre Dame regular Carolina on Saturday. This Notre Dame closes out its ''Xavier is probably a better double figures. In the front­season coming to a close, marked a season-high for the current three-game road trif ball club than their record court 6-7 forward Gary Massa Phelps is ho.J?in~ the Irish can Irish, and was also the third tonight, as it travels to Cincinn­indicates," notes Irish coach averages 15 ppg, while 6-7 maintain their Intensity head-straight game that Tripucka has ati's Riverfronr Coliseum to Digger Phelps. ''They are center David Anderson scores . ing into the NCAA playoffs. scored at least 20 pomts. 
face the Xavier Musketeers. well-coached and have some at a 12. 5 ppg clip. Anderson ''With three weeks left, what Center Orlando Woolridge Tip-off is scheduled for 7:30 talented ballplayers, but there leads the team in rebounding we need to do is concentrate on has also come on strong lately, p.m., and WSND-AM (640) will are always a few transition with a 7.5 per game average. preparin~ ourselves for the scoring a career-high 23 points carry the game live. There is no problems when you change Freshman guard Anthony playoffs, '·Phelps says. "We against Fordham, and then local TV broadcast. coaches." Hicks leads the backcourt con, want to 'avoid any sort of adding 18 more against South 
The Musketeers have Sophomore forward Jon tin~ent with a 13~6 ppg average letdown once March arrives. Carolina. struggled to a 7-15 record this Hanley has been the major while senior Keith' Walker With teams like Marquette and The next home contest for year (0-5 in the new Midwest· force for Xavier this season, paces the team in assists with DePaul left to play I don't think Notre Dame will be this 
'we have to worry." Sunday, as they face the Kelly Tripucka appears fully Marquette Warriors in a
Heiden captures 3rd goldofWinter Games 
recovered from his recent back nationally-televised contest at LAKE PLACID, N.Y. (AP)-Lobanov, tying for rhe bronze in two runs, with the sily~r going problems, as he has paced the the "ACC, beginning at 2:30 
Eric: Heiden continued to turn 1:16.91. Mueller was fifth in to Andreas Wenzel oflrechten­Irish in scoring the last two p.m. thc Wimer Olympics into a 1: 17. 11. -;t_em in ~' ;41.~9 and Bans Enn one-man_ sho~ yesterday, c~p Heiden • s victory in the 1,000 o~ Austna taku~g the .bronze 111 rurtng Ius thtrd. speed skatmg conunued his Olympic surge, 2.42. ') 1· . NDwomen lose seasonfinale 
gold me·~ a! ~uh a record-whic:h could develop inro. a i Franz Ullnch of East perma~y ~rna~hing performance m the five-medal sweep. He and his won the 10 me~er btatthalon tn CHICAGO -The Notre Dame . Sophomor'e Tricia McManus mc·n:s 1,~00 meter n~ce. stster. Beth. were supl?osed to. 5~ . mtm~res, 10.69. seconds, women's basketball team led the IriSh with 16 points and 
Hctden s powerful, long be the top famtly act 10 these grvmg hts cputhtrv trs fou~th closed out its regular season by 11 rebounds while Jane Politi­smdes produced a ume of one games, but Beth has finished guld. r:n_edal 1 _~f fhe;>ed \game~. r losing to Illinois-Chicago Circle ski added 12 points and 11 nunute, 1).18 seconds, chop-no better than fifth in her three Vladt~rr AI) ~tl tn..l.. \ ASat? 1• .last night, 71-59. The defeat, caroms. Maggie Lally chipped pmg 4.14 seconds off t~ammate races so far. \ AIJ~brey. b~ ~ \o ~!'e oviet the' second in a row for coach in 10 points and registered six
1

P~ter Mueller'~ O!ymprc record The men's giant slalom went U~ton,_. woo , fh\e ~uver_ 0 a~~. Sharon ' Petro's charges, steals. r ot 1.19.32set tn 1976. Gaeten toSweden'slngemarStenmark bronzetn32:\5~.10aq 33. 9. dropped their regular season Leading by 13 at halftime, Bouc:her of CAnada won rhe who swept from third place .The medal~ .l ra~e has rur;~~ record to 14-7 as they head into Chicago Circle built up a 20 stlvn tn 1:16.68 wtt~ two after the first heat to caprure mw. a. tw~-d~uop tug of . the Indiana AlA W Division III point lead in the ·second half. skaters, Frode R<?enmng_ of his first Olympic gold me4aL . wtth the ..~·o~tet pmon leadmg playoffs tpis weekend in An­Notre Dame cut that margin to 
Norway aud Russ1a s VladJmJr He was timed in 2';40. 74 for his ; • [contmued on page 9] gola_. seven, but could pull no closer. 
: -----------------------·----------------------------· --~---·-----------------------------·· ···-·-·-­
----~-------­

I l 







