, , , No. 1 -page 16 

VOL. XV NO. 48 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3,1980 
Iran sets conditions
Carter comments 
for hostages'release 
By The Associated Press in one week. But he said it was
on crtsts 
"physically impossible" for the 
The Iranian Parliament, in a Americans to be freed by Tues­
WASHINGTON (AP)-major step toward ending a day, Election Day.
President Carter said last night that kept The administrationstalemate has the Carter 
that the Iranian terms for re­

world in crisis for a year, voted has indicated a willingness to lease of the 52 American hos­yesterday to free the 52 A­discuss the long-awaited Iranian tages appear to offer a positive demands. But there was no im­
merican hostages if the United 
basis" for negotiating their mediate word from Washing­
States meets four conditions freedom-but added that he from Ayatollah Ruhollah Kho­ton about whether and how the cannot predict when that may 
meini and a parliamentary conditions might be met. 
come. 

committee. 
In his first, briefstatement on It was the most promising When news of the Parlia­the conditions set by the Iran­development in the U.S.-Iran­

ment's action flashed back toian Parliament early yesterday, 
ian confrontation in the 365 the United States at about 4the president said the election days since the seizure of the 
a.m. EST Sunday, Presidentnow two days away will not af­U.S. Embassy in Tehran. But Carter broke off a campaignfect feet his handling of the the Iranian proposal, calling for tour in Chicago and flew tosituation. 
U.S. concessions on complex Washington, where he confer­"Let me assure you that my financial matters, was fraught red with Vice President Walterdeci&ions on this crucial matter with potential difficulties. 
F. Mondale, National Securitywill not be affected by the The Iranians said the United . Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinskicalendar," Carter said. 
States must fulfill all of the 
and other aides at the White
He said whatever the out­terms -not simply signal its House.

come of Tuesday's election, acceptance of them. Groups of I ran will find Americans ofboth hostages then would be freed in parties united in their desire for phases as each condition is met, "Until we see the fine print or 

release of the captives on terms to he left out ofthe H a!loween Jjirit, Moses recently donnnedthis they said. understand more clearly the 
consistent with U.S. honor and rheet and masqueraded as a ghost in front of the Memorial Lt~ "America's procrastination fine print, we cannot see pre­
integrity. hrary. (photo by Li11da Shanahan) can prevent their release and cisely the limits within which we 
Carter's spokesman had said lead to their trial (as alleged are being asked to act," Sec­earlier that the president prob­through diplomatic channels Carter had cancelled his Sun­spies)," Tehran Radio said. 'retary of State Edmund S. ably would not have a yes-or-no and vowed that any action he day campaign travels, and re­Sadegh G hotbzadeh, Iran's Muskie said later on ABC's response to the Iranian terms takes will be in accordance with turned to Washington for a day former foreign minister and a "Issues and Answers." on Sunday. The terms include U.S. law and the Constitution. of conferences on the hostage key figure in the U.S.-Iranian the freeing of frozen Iranian He said he shares with the developments. confrontation, said he hoped The decision came as Iran assets, a pledge that the United hostage families and with all "the whole thing" could be over struggled into the seventh week States will not intervene in Americans a desire for the hos­of war with neighboring Iraq. Iran's affairs, the dropping of tages' early release. The Iranians' presumed need 
I~:: gal claims against Iran and the Presidential debate fails 
for American spare parts for return of the assets of the late "I know also that all Ameri­their U.S.-made military e­Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi. cans will want their return to be quipment was believed to be a 
The president, in a statement on a proper basis which is major factor in their action now

to change attitudes 
broadcast from the White worthy of the suffering and sac­on the hostage question. House East Room, said he had rifice which the hostages have by Paul McGt'nn bate or heard about it in detail The Iranian news agency Pars been determined from the out­endured," Carter said. through either the newspaper said the Parliament, with 200 of
' 

set to serve two objectives: the Last week's Carter-Reagan or through discussion. How­its 228 members present for the protection of U.S. honor and The president said the ad­debate had little effect on voter ever, only 6.6 percent stated stormy session, voted by a security, and the safe return of ministration has been consult­attitudes, a campus-wide poll that their choices for president "decisive majority" to approve the hostages. ing with Republican p,residen­conducted by The Observer in­changed because of the debate. the four conditions for the hos­
"As we understand the Parl­tial nominee Ronald Reagan dicated. . And of this group, 66.6 percent tages' release recommended by iament's proposals, they appear and with leaders ofboth parties Students who were question­said they changed from Carter a seven-member select com­to offer a positive basis for in Congress on the hostage situ­ed in the study constituted all to Reagan, while 33.3 percent mittee. The action had been achieving both of these objec­ation. United States geographical are­went from Carter to undecided. expected for the past week. tives," he said. "I wish that I could predict as and all undergraduate clas­In giving their vote for Presi­
Carter said the quest for a when the hostages will return," ses. Of those asked, 81.8 per· dent, 48.8 percent supported According to an unofficial settlement is being pursued he said. "I cannot. cent said they watched the de-Reagan, 30.8 percent voted for translation of the com­
ParisCarter, 8.8 percent backed mittee report, Iran is demand­Anderson, while 6.8 percent ing that the United States: I.)
were undecided and 4.8 percent make a "firm committment torefused to issue their prefer­avoid all direct or indirect po­
Quayle discusses senatorial battle 
ence. Of those who backed litical and military interfer­Reagan, 59.1 percent felt that ence" in Iran's affairs. 2.)release 
Rep. Dan Quayle, is faced from January through May, and feel·that one of the reasons that their candidate won the debate an estimated $8 billion in I­with the difficult challenge of shut down and come back and a lot of people have lost con­while 40.9 percent said that ranian government assets inunseating three-term incum­live for five months, a.nd go fidence in our political·system is neither Carter nor Reagan won. 
U.S. banks that were frozen bybent Sen. Birch Bayh in Tues­back a couple weeks in the fall because these people become 35.5 percent ofCarter's backers Carter's executive order lastday's election. He was recently and clean up business. There­entrenched, they get reelected scored the debate a victory for 
Nov. 14, 3.)apledgeofnon­
interviewed by Observer staff fore you'd have some farmers just on constituentservice, they the President, 12.5 percent for interference in Iranian affairsreporters Anne Jane Dregalla and teachers, laboring people, a don't pay attention to the is­Reagan, and 52.3 percent a tie. 
and 4.) return ofthe property of
and Tom Jackman. 

sues. Therefore if we have a The composite rating had 46.6 
the late Shah Mohammad Reza
Q: My first question concerns what 

different type ofperson to go to percent giving the debate to Pahlavi.
you .ratd yesterday about Congress­
Washington just for a certain 
Reagan, 17.7 percent claiming The initial U.S. reaction was
men being limited to two terms in 

period of time I think that Carter the victor with 35.7 per­guarded. Muskie and White
office. Don't you feel that the longer 
would be far better. cent voicing the belief that House press secretary Jody
Q: Areyou happy wrth ye.rterday'.r neither candidate scored a win. you are in Wa.rhington, the more you 
Powell said the administration
can accomplish? 

Senate vote to cut off the Grain Ranking the debate on a scale would not accept any proposalEmbargo? What do you think about of from 1 to 10, with 1 as poorA: I feel that the longer you inconsistent with American in­are in Washington the more 
the Democrats' charge that it wa.r a and 10 as excellent, the stu­
terests and American honor.
political move?
you become a Washington per­

dents handed the event a 5. 3. son. I really believe that we 
A: We have tried to do that in Of the students polled, 88.8 
Carter ordered briefings for
the House ofRepresentativesasought to have a citizen-type leg­percent expected to or had al­his rivals for the presidencyislature, one that's truly repre­well. I feel that it wasn't neces-Republican Ronald Reagan andsentative of the people. I would 
(continued on page 11) (continued on puge 12) independent]ohn B. Anderson.
prefer to have Congress meet 


r-· 
r 
• 



News Brie/.§ 
Monday, November 3, 19so-page2 
~b:y:T.~oe=.:O~b:se:r:ve~r~a~n=d~T.;~~e=A~s:so:c:ta:t:ed~P~r=~=s==~==Jn====.=d::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::=::::=:=:=::::==::::::=::::=:::::f:::::~ 
Almost totally paralyzed after oxygen deprivation during cancer surgery, a 26-year old Miami woman was awarded $6.7 million in a malpractice suit. A six­memberDade County jury returned the verdict in a suit filed by Vikki Lynn Reyes and her husband, Rigoberto. Since theMarch 1979 surgery, Mrs. Reyes can move only her eyes and head, according to testimony. She will require continuous nursing care for the rest ofher life, her lawyer said. During surgery, she suffered severe brain damage from lack of oxvgen. According to ho~it~~-~~cords--read-in-w.ur.~eart stopped .for 15 -m1nutes. Named in the award r ~e Mount Sinai Medical 
Center, anesthesiologist Dr. Saul Miller and physician Dr. 
Robert Bedell. Miller's lawyer said he did nothing wrong. 
Bedell's lawyer had no comment -AP 

In a tense political campaign 
President Carter conferred with his diplomatic hign command at the White House while Ronald Reagan sought crucial Ohio votes yesterday in the closing hours of the campaign that was suddenly hostage to terms set by an alien parliament for the release of 52 captive Americans. Reagan, the Republican presidential nominee, said the Iranian hostage situation was too delicate for him to discuss. His running mate, GeorgeBush, said it would not affect the outcome of Tuesday's election. Cam­paigning in Marietta, Ohio, Reagan said, "Thisis notthe time or the place for me to be addressing such a sensitive matter. Obviously, all of us want this tragic situation resolved. That's my deepest hope, and I know it's yours." Secretary of State EdmundS. Muskie said Carter did not regard the possible break of the year-old hostage stalemate as a political resource. Nonetheless, it became the dominant concern ofcampaigners for both sides, almost on the eve of an election the public opinion pollsters said was too close to forecast. -AP 
A 600-y:ear old Gothic cathedral in Milan is sinking. Leonardo da Vinci's "Last Supper" fresco is fading and other monuments and churches here are crumbling. Modern urban ills such as air pollution and traffic vibration are blamed but art experts also say indifference by politicians, a shortage offunds and red tape are major threats. "Insufficient money prevents us from dealing with the original causes ofthe ruin ofart sources, which are perishable and not replaceable," Carlo Bertelli, fine arts superintendent for the Lombardy region and head of the Brera modern art gallery emphasized in a recent interview with The Assoetated Press. "Political indifference about the problems of art is an additional plague." Reports that Leonardo's fresco was cracking and its colors fading stirred widespread concern two years ago. But little has been done so far to preserve and restore the masterpiece, painted by Leonardo in the supper room of Santa Maria delle Grazie church 482 years ago. Officials of the Duomo, Milan's famed cathedral, recently reported that six years of work and an expense of $13.2 million will be needed to strengthen the main pillars of the building which was begun in I 386. -AP 
Iran'S Oil Minister Mohammed Jawad Baquir Tunguyan was reported captured by Iraqi troops in a seperate ambush when an attack was made on the major Iranian oil refinery city of Abadan yesterday. The official Iraqi news agency said Tunguyan was captured last Friday in an am} ush by "special Iraqi patrols" and taken to the Iraqi capital ofBaghdad. It gave no other details. The 30-year-old minister took office about two months ago. There was no immediate Iranian statement on the claim. Iraq already has claimed Abadan's railway, highway, pipeline and sea links with the rest oflran have been cut off, and Iraqi forces have overrun Iran's major shipping port of Khorramshar north­west of Abadan on the Shatt al-Arab waterway. The capture ofAbadan would strengthenIraq's position on the waterway, Iran's only outlet to the Persian Gulf, through which much of the world's oil moves. 
PopeJohn Paul II yesterday called for a negotiated settlement of the Iraq-Iran war in a manner respecting "human rights and national and territorial integrity" of the two Middle Eastern countries. "Unfor­tunately the world's public opinion seems to get easily used to such episodes of terrible destruction," the pontiff told a crowd of25,000 gathered in St. Peter's Square for his noon blessing. In the speech marking the Roman Catholic Church'sAil Souls's Day honoring the dead,]ohnPaul said he wanted to remember all the victims of "too many violent episodes" including terrorism, kidnappings and natural disasters that have taken place in the world this year. 
Partly sunny and windytoday with highs in the mid 60s. Breezy and cool to.night with a slight chance for showers. Lows in the low 40s. Partly cloudy tomorrow with highs in the mid 50s. -AP 
st e Monday 

Thoughts·On Election Eve 
I really didn't want to do this. In fact, I was making a very careful effort to stay away from the topic simply because everyone else was covering it. But then, it is Election Eve. Tomor­row anyone who hasn't sent in absentee ballots will be struggling with their conciousnesses to decide whom they must vote for. It's an im­portant right, no matter how little difference it really might make in the end. 
But today is Election Eve, and it is autumn. Crisp Golden autumn at its finest. As I walked down the farm roads behind the college on an autumn afternoon, I-can't help thinking how forever this land is. The differnet trees and small forest plants are new-born in the whole ofearth's life, but as you walk you cannot help but feel the presence of the forests and prairies that came before-each preceeding the last back to the beginning oftime. And you feel too the presence ofthe many who walked along those paths by the shores ofthe river Saint]oseph. They're all there in tpe cool autumn breeze blowing over the brown barren fields; in the gentle swirling ofthe gold and red leaves against the intense blue sky. Somehow it's always been there and you feel it will always be. 
Or so you hope. 

And it's Election Eve. We really don't have much of a choice this year. And the worst problem with that statement is that everyone agrees with it. No one likes the idea ofhaving to choose between three inexperienced, or incom­petant men for our next president. So, if the people didn't want these men, how did they become the only candidates? Somehow the choice got away from the people. Again. A choice that is as fundamental and important to the protection of our rights and freedom as the power to vote is. 
According to one writer in the Chicago Sun­Trines, the political satirists who interpret pop­ular opinion believe that the country is suffering from a case ofelectionABC's: Apathy, Boredom and Cynicism. Well, that's not unusual, but it sure seems to be getting worse every election year. 
And the result is what we have this year. The people are slowly letting go of some of their basic rights as citizens. And they're hoping that somehow it will all come out right without having to do anything. W-ell, we've been lucky so far, but there is no guarantee that it will last. When a man is elected simply because the people say, "We,have no other choice" then we might as well go batk to kings, or even their modern day prototypes -dictators. 
Not many people are going to be happy with the next president, no matter who he is. That could make it very difficult for him to get bills passed by Congress and depending on who he is, that could be good, or worse. But it might also mean that in the next election, we'll grab at anything because he will look good in com-
Margie 



Brassil 
parison. 

But the fact still remains that the candidates don't seem to be the choice of the people this year, and we are going to get stuck with a president we don't particularly like and support. And in the end this could make us weaker than anything else could. But, not because ofwho will be in the White House come next January but becuse the people have somehow stopped pay­ing attention. Or they have become so culled by events and politicians into believing there is nothing they can do anyway, that they really don't care anymore. 
But they better start caring again. There is nothing we can do in time for tomorrow, be­cause the only way out of this election would be not to vote. But then, we would be giving up a right that is the most basic to our nation. 
We do still have the right to vote. To decide which ofthe three candidates we can at least bear as our president. It's still better than a dtc­tatorship, or monarchy. But not much. Next time, four years from now we better pay at­tention. We better make sure that right means a lot more. 
It's November. Winter will be coming, autumn is nearly ended. Harvests have been gathered and the last leaves are falling. And we can still walk in freedom along country roads. A freedom that has been watched over carefully by the people who have come before. The land is forever because it needs no govrnment to guide it. The freedom in which it lives and grows is protected by people. A government is necessary, however, to guide and direct the people, but it is up to us to protect our freedom. So that we can continue to walk in freedom on an autumn afternoon. 

'~~ 

MOE LUI?"{ CJJfD-Y 
f~· 
Design Ed#or...... ......... Mike Monk Design Assistants. ........ .. Patty Hulley Monica Google Layout Staff .... ..... Gaynor McGowan Night Technician ..... .. : . .. Rich Fischer News Editor .............. Pam Degnan Copy Editor ................ Lynn Daley Sports Layo11t . .............. Mike Monk Sports Copy Editor ....... Beth Huffman Typists ................... Susy Sulentic Systems Technician.: ...•... Steve Brown ND Day Editor. ....... Bob Berenowski Supplement Layout ......... Pam Degnan Tom Jackman Margie Brassil Photograpers .............. Chris Salvino Linda Shanahan Guest Appearances.... .... Ryan and John 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer ls8ubllshed by the students of Notre arne and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved. 




Get $1.00 off any Springsteen 
album or tape with ND/SMC i.d. ­now until Nov. 10! And register to win 2 good tickets to the sold out Nov. 20 Springsteen concert at Rosemont Horizon in Chicago. Enter at River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North. Call 277-4242 for further information. 
The Observer Monday, November 3, 1980 -page 3 Prostitution, drugs 
Undercover cop proves hintself 
by Hal Spenc~r 
Associated Press Writer 

Fired from one police force, 
Salvatore Lombardi sent six lonely years in the shadowy world ofprostitution,drugs and stolen goods to prove himself worthy of the detective's badge 
he wears today. 
''He has the knack. He could 
infiltrate a convent,'' says pol­
ice Sgt. Ted Dolan of Pawtuc­
ket, one of eight Rhode Island 
towns where Lombardi worked 
undercover as a hired gun. 
"He's got guts. He fears no 
one,'' said Capt. Frank Ricci of 
the arwick police department. 
"He certainly proved himself 
here." 

Lombardi was hired as a detective for the Woonsocket P.olice a year a~o. But his 
'police academy' was a series of smoky bars and undercover buys of drugs and hot cars. 
The heavy set, 30 year old Lombardi packes a pistol even in his living room where he relaxed one Sunday to tell his story while watching his fa­vortie professional football ream, the New England Patri­ots, on television. 
He agreed to an interview on the promise he would not be photographed, but he laughed a lot as he talked, acting like his life among criminals was a 
n~. to~ 
&MM. A\10. 
nov. \7~ 
WASM. MA,IL 

huge lark. bar where the sus.Pected burg­
Lombardi's odd career began lacs spent their ume between 
in 1973 in Johnston, an indus-jobs. 
trial town adjoining Provi-One night, he gave a lift 
dence, when he was fired from home to a man who was too 
the force just one hour before high on pills and liquor to 
his probationary term would dnve. "That was the break I 
have expired. needed. They took me into the 
"Sal JUSt didn't measure U,P gang." 
to what we thou~ht a um-' The job led to the arrest of 
formed should be,' said]ohn-20 people and made his under­
stan Police Chief William Toe-cover reputation. From there 
co. "I admire his undercover he moved into the nether world 
work. But that's not what we of crime in several towns.. 
were looking for." "He has a real talent for 
Lombarde said the firing undercover work. He can con­black balled him from other vince anybody or anything he police forces, making him wants,'' said Pawtucket police "travel an unusual road to get Sgt. Ted Nolan. my badge back.'' • 'One time when he was 
Lombardi said he gets no working for us, he went into a thrill from the danger of work-house to buy some drugs. The ing among people who would guy pulled a gun on Sal and kill a police officer without asked him how he knew he hesitation. wasn't a cop. By the time Sal 
•'I did it for one reason, to got through talking, the guy get my job back. It's not that I had agreed to sell h1m not only enjoy the danger. I just don't drugs but the gun too." mind it too much," he said. 
"He's never lost sleep wor­Lombardi also has a talent rying about things,'' confirmed for disguise. "I can change his wife, Michelina, 30, even my appearance in simple ways­after Woonsocket police this cut my hair or my beard; wear year nabbed a man outside the different cloths.'' couple's house who was carry­He once arrested a man for. ing a can of gas and a note dru~ sales and then busted him threatening Lombardi's life. agam two years later. "The 
"I don't worry about him too guy didn't even recognize me. much either," added Mrs. I had change my ha1r style," Lombardi. "I know Sal can Lombardi said. handle him£elf. '' His job in Woonsocket came 
Lombardi, bearded and blue­after he played an undercover eyed, said his undercover work role in a sting operation in began when he took a job in which police set up a phony Lincoln to help solve a rash of fencing operation and arrested house burglaries. Night after almost 20 people and recovered night, Lombardi hung around a $280,000 in stolen goods. 
:-f1 


~~ta1HrrY 
1WE 5lG ~ COMI30 
IMe.Jte6.ted in -6ollowing .the v-Wipn and li6eJ.J.tqte o6 St. Francis of Assisi 
a..6  a  BJto.the.Jt oJt  a  PJtieJ.J.t?  
eon.tact:  FRANCISCAN Department 3320 St. POak Brook,  VOCATIONS C. ascha 1 Dr. ll 60521  

Applications are now available in the S.U. offices for the SPRING 1981 
Student 
MOVIE LOTTERY 

Union 
*Return completed applications to the 
S.U. secretary by 4 p.m., Friday, Nov. 14 

I ­ ...W0 oa. 1\tRE£  
Lli!IMY~  11ti~6S:C ..AOOtr ~  
dec. 8 ­ allN4f'DJJP11  

u. 

1­
The Observer Monday, November 3, 1980 -page4 
'Pippin'

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
10/30/80

Main Bulldlnc 
JOB tH'l'pYIEWS All OPEN TO SllllORS AND GRADUATE STUDEIITS IN ntJ D!C!MBER• HAY AND AUGUST CLASSES • • • • • AllY 11110 liiT!IID TO HAVE liiTJ!RVlEWS 11151 HAVE A C(Jil'L!TED PROPlL! (UX:lSTRATlOII) PORI! 011 FlU AT THE PU.CIIIIIIT BUREAU,  
THE SlGII-UP PERIOD lS FROM 8:00A.M. TO 5:00P.M., IIOIIDAY nut011QI TIIURSDAY, 111 1tOQM 1.13 ADMlMISTU.TIOI IUUDI.C IKCIIOIINC NOVBIG!It l FOR IKTEllVIEWS SCHIDUL!D POR THE W!!lt OP 110\'IMIER 10,  Nov 12 wer- 

Boaton Collaaa -Graduate School of HDe1.eRt I 1d all dlactpltMI. 

Cue Weaun Rlleerve Univenitv -Graduate School II in all dbelpUnea, 
Contell Unlven1tY Graduate School of lu.tn..a &: Public Ad•lnhtration I in all dhdpUMI. 
Fluor Corp 111 in C.E., M.£., Ch.E., E.£. 
K-Mart Apparel 
All BBA. 
LDyola Unlvenity. Graduate School of Buatne.. I in all dhciplin... 

Hoatelt Cnr_2 ~T.E. and Phydcs. BH tn Chem. and Coap. Sd. 8 tn H.E. All 88A and MBA. 
TTa"eno1 Laborata'C't.ea, lnc 8 in Acct. 

Tulane Graduate School of Bualneaa Adminhtratlon B ln all dhcipUnea, 
University of Chicaso, Graduilte School of BUIIlneu B in 1111 diaciplinea. 
University of Southern California, Graduate School of Buslnen Ad•lnietration 8 in all dlsdplinaa. 
Vanderbilt Untftrdty -Owen Graduate School of Mllnaae•nt 8 in all dlacipli.tLBa. 
Colt Industrlea lac 1M in H.E., H.E.t.O., Met. 
Gulf 011 Corp BHD in Ch.E., MD in H.E. 
New York Univenity Graduate School of Bul!lineaa M•!nt.stratiaa B in all dlaciplinas. 
The Peoples Gaa Li&ht and Coke Co 8 in E.E., H.E. 
Nov 12 ll Wed Thure 
Nov 13 
nwr.­
Nov 13/14 Thure/Fri 
Hoy 14 
-;rr-
Nov 11 

Arthur AnderHn & Co B tn Acct. MIA vith Acct bacltgrollftd or coacentratioa. 
Cat•rptllar Tractor Co All BA and BBA. IS 1n all ea&ineel'ina dlactpllM•. MIA.. Karketina Careere/Technical Sal... Worldwide. PerNnent Reat.dent Vi.aa, 
Eastman Kodak Co All lA and B!A. KIA. BH iu E.E•• Ch,E., !1.1., ~. 
Quaker oau Co B in Acct. Financial Accountant. Chicago. Citizenship required. 
Dow Chemical Co BMD in Ch.E. and Cham. 
Peraacel, a John~~on & J~ All BBA. 
Emory Univenlty, School of Bulline.. Ada1Dhcratil!!! B in all disciplines. 
Federal Hishway Administration BH in C.E. 
Firat National Bank in St. Louis All BBA and MBA. Credit Analyst-profeasioaal etaff development proaram. St. Louis, HO. Cltizenahip req. 
b&Ckgmd or concllllCrat::ion. 8 in~-5<:1. 
BH 1n Cb.E. 
Mov 11 
rue.­

Opening Soon At A Theatre Near You 
auditions tonight 
The Notre Dame Student Players will hold auditions for their production of Pippin tonight at 6:30 pm in the LaFortune Ballroom. Audi­tions are open to any student from Notre Dame or St. Mary's. No preparation is necessary for the audition but comfortable clothing should be worn. Persons with no experience in the theater are especially encoUJ.:aged to try out 
Medical anthropologist to speak 
The Department of Sociolo­gy and Anthropology is spon­
soring a lecture in the area of medical anthropology on Monday, Novem,ber 3rd at 3:30pm in the Audio Visual Theater of the Center for Continuing Education by Dr. 
Jean Comaroff, a specialist from the University of Chi­cago. Her topic is "Healing and Cultural Change in Afri­ca". The lecture is a product of fieldwork that Professor Comaroffdid in Africa among the Tschidi-Barolong of the South Africa-Botswana bor­derland, and will deal with the transformation of African healing systems. 
Easy-care Dacron<E Hollofil™ II fill provides the warmth for this vest made of 1001 fabric with cor­duroy yoke. Large cargo pockets have Velcro closures and handwarmer pockets. 
@utpost
Jradin_g_
Compony 
16533 Cleveland Road Granger, IN 46530 
across from 


---------------------~------~-------­
--~---~--­

The Observer Extra 
An Observer news supplement 


Carter or Reagan: What's the difference? 
votes for is an expression of the
By Michael Onufrak 
direction one prefers. Carter is
Editorials Editor 
the battle-toughened realist who has slugged away against a dif­In 1960, people complained, ficult Congress, almost blindlyand historian Arthur Schlesinger felt his way through a tempes­even wrote a pamphlet, to the tuous and complicated foreigneffect that there was no real differ­policy, and finally has emerged asence between the two candidates anything but the smiling fellowof the major parties, Richard he entered the presidency as. HtsNixon and John Kennedy. They vision ofAmerica is one foundedlooked different and talked differ­in his experience of the last fourent, but they were saying essen­years. It is not an overly optimistictially the same thing, one in a vision, but it is one grounded inBoston brogue, the other in an realism. Carter does not perceiveauthoritative baritone. Twenty America dominating the worldyears later this situation has most and dictating the future. Instead,·definitely beeh eradicated. 
he sees an America which leads,As last Tuesday's debate proved, but delegates some authority toPresident Jimmy Carter and his other allies and potential allies inRepublican opponent Ronald the third world. Carter may notReagan agree on nothing what­have planned it that way, but thatsoever, save the choice of a blue is how it has ended up, and hesuit to show up best ~m network plans to stick with it.
television. Not only did they Reagan's vision of America isdisagree on policy and interpre­radically different. Reagan believestation of world events, they also that America was at its best in thecouldn't agree on several instan­years immediately following theces of fact. AddJohn Anderson's end of World War II. His goal,refutation ofboth men's positions and that of his supporters, is toand one can easily gauge thi~ return America to the top. Reagancountry's attitude as it heads into envisions an America which isthe '80s-confusion. 
both militarily and industriallyIndeed, it seems that there are
Jimmy Carter listens to a questioner during a 1977 
a number of directions this
Washington press conference. 
country can take, and whom one 
(continued on page 6} 
Hiler challenges Brademas 
• 
m tough congressional fight 
By Tim Vercellotti Senior Staff Reporter 

While the voters of the Third District are deciding who should represent them for the next two years in Congress, the camps of 
both candidates  are  predicting  
victory.  
John  Brademas  is  the  

Democratic nominee, and John 
have demonstrated stability, good judgement, and the courage to stand up, and they must have made basically right decisions in previous states ofturmoil," Roos explained. 
Wayne Kraemer, who heads the Hiler organization, offered sound economc training as one of his candidate's advantages. Hiler tamed his M.B.A. from the University of Chicago in 1977, one of the major centers of economic thought in this coun­try, and he runs a private business in LaPorte, Indiana. 

One of the major concerns of both candidates has been the high rate of unemployment in the Third District. Roos cited the 
(continued on page 8} 


Hiler is carrying the Republican banner into a contest that will decide who will serve the con­stituents of LaPorte, St. Joseph, and Elkhart counties in the House of Representatives. 
Brademas has represented this district for the past 22 years, serving on two House commit­tees, Education and Labor, and several subcommittees. He is currently the third ranking Democrat in the House, which gives him the title of Majority Whip. Before being elected to Congress, Brademas taught political science at Saint Mary's College. 
The GOP nominee, John Hiler, ran unsuccessfully for the Indiana state house in 1978. He has served as a delegate to the 1978 Indiana State Republican Con­vention, and the 1980 White, House Conference on Small Businesses. 
According to John Roos, Brademas' campaign manager, experience is one of the keys to the campaign. "It is at this time that we need people who have 
proven over a given period of -~JMMp.Rrgdeqw wa+es 9 h 9;9, dur;sw h lji!Mf6M4M~~· · "9ec11'S.. ftllit""'l?f~ll~a.~fty---Auditorium last month. r 
decent and honest; they must 

john Roos 
John Roos, government pro­
fessor at Notre Dame, is currently 
on leave of absence to assume 
the role ofcampaign manager for 
Congressional candidate John 
Brademas. In a recent interview, 
Roos discussed with Observer 
senior staff reporter Kelli Flint 
his views on Brademas' campaign 
and the local political atmos­, phere. 
Government prof aids 
Brademas 
Q: What areyourduties as tampaign manager for Brademas? 
A: Everything that doesn't get solved by someone else ends up on the campaign manager's desk. I basically report directly toJohn Brademas. I, in turn, am respon­sible for making decisions for radio, television, organization, basic strategy, press releases, setting up headquarters, fund­
(continued on page 10} 

•···················~•
•

t Inside: , ~ 
• Can Quayle defeat Birch Ba_yh?... pg.6 ~ -tc_ Should the process be changed?••• pg. 7 -tc 
..

t . 
-tc A close look at the electoral college ... pg.B • 
... -.. 
.. .. 
.. A final reView of the issues..• pg.9 .. 
.. .. 
... .. .. .... ......---·~-..-... 
« 
--·~. 
-~------------­
--~-_-­

~-·-·--_-_----·....-~ 
The Observer Monday, November 3, 1980 -page 6 

Young Republican Urges ''Vote For A Change'' 
By Tomjackman ance claim against Quayle, say­finger-pointing at incumbent 
Executive News Editor ing he missed one out of every Democrats like Bayh. Bayh re­
six votes in 1979, and that his sponds that he has fought to 
Young, handsome and overall attendance record is recruit and keep industries in staunchly conservative, J. poor. But Quayle has heard the state, but an unemploy­Danforth (Dan) Quayle comes these charges before, and de­ment rate nearly double the to this campaign directly out of fends himself vigorously. "His national norm has spokenthe mold the Republican Party (Bayh's) overall attendance rat­louder, and it has clearly ham­has designed in its all-out effort ing is 75 percent compared with pered him. to defeat liberal Congressional my attendance rating of 85 Despite this, labor unions in 
targets such as Gary Hart, percent," Quayle said. "So I the state are again solidly be­George McGovern, Frank have a much better attendance hind Bayh, but it appears even Church and, of course, Indian­record than Senator Bayh, and their support in the rank-and­a's Birch Bayh. he knows that." file is waning. Last week, Bayh The GOP, sensing national Quayle, of course, is not made an almost desperate ap­
discontent with Democratic without charges of his own. In peal to labor leaders to solidify leadership, feels the time is ripe lirie with the Republican ideal support for his reelection, and to regain control not only ofthe of reducing federal spending, their reactions could have aim­executive branch but also ofthe Quayle says Bayh has had the pact on the result. upper house of the legislative opportunity to vote on the ex­When Birch Bayh first won branch of government. Ac­istence of 399 federal agencies, election in 1962, his opponentcordingly, a multi-million dol­and voted against none ofthem. was campaigning for an un­lar nationwide media blitz has precedented fourth term, and been staged urging voters to go Bayh makes the same charge lost by less than 15,000 votes. Republican, "Fora Change." In against Quayle, saying "he'sgot But Homer Capehart did not states with particularly objec­a beautiful commercial about have to shoulder the respon­
tionable legislators, such as regulators, and yet he hasn't sibility for high unemploymentBayh, political action commit­stopped one regulator, and I and inflation rates, as Bayh tees have added their not in­have .... When regulation gets to must now, and coupled with the considerable weight on behalf the point where it's self-defeat­conservative atmosphere ofthis of the conservatives: ing, where it really isn't serving lction year, the situation ap­In Indiana, the strategy is a legitimate purpose, then I ars very favorable for Dan working. A statewide poll con­think we have to stop that. And ayle to unseat at least one ducted recently by Indiana I've done that. He hasn't-he era! target in 1980. University not only gave talks, but he doesn't get any­
Quayle a surprisingly wide lead, thing accomplished." Quayle it also reported that most vo­later pointed out that he has ters' reactions were anti-Bayh, voted to kill the Consumer 
rather than pro-Quayle. The Protection Agency and to limit pollsters attributed this speci­the Department of Education. fically, in part, to the National Far more money than ever • • 
• Reagan

Conservative Political Action before has been spent on this Committee, whose activities in campaign, and that has become 
Indiana have included spending an issue as well. Bayh could end (continuedfrom page 5I Democratic ideas. Some liberals more than $175,000 in an effort up spending over $2 million (he superior to any other nation. are equally dissatisfied with his to defeat Bayh. Quayle publi­spent just over $1 million to Naturally Reagan contends that borrowing from the Republican
cally disavows the conservative defeat Richard Lugar in 1974) 
America can avoid the problems camp, although they find his committee, and has asked them and Quayle is apparently not far which she encountered in those liberal reforms acceptable. to leave the state, but privately behind. Quayle charges that 
years. He believes that we can Anderson's rejection is a signhe knows that they can only Bayh is reaping the benefits of avoid embroiling ourselves in a of just how pronounced the help him unless they become so 
incumbency by picking up e­destructive arms race and sending separation between the two major nasty they end up offending normous out-of-state contribu­troops abroad and repeating the candidates is. By rejecting the people. tions. Bayh replies that many of horrors ofKorea and VietNam. c{)mpromise candidate, American 
The candidates themselves 
these came. from political ac­Anderson's view is some~here voters have said that they want have become the central issue tion committees with out-of­in between, and perhaps this is either the Carter vision or the in the final weeks before to­state mailing addresses. Quayle, the reason he stands the least Reagan vision. Nothing in be­morrow's election. Quayle, hearing this, laughed and said, chance of winning tomorrow. tween, no compromises. There who believes Senators should "ifyou believe that you believe Besides having no party or public will be a vote, there will be a 
be limited to two terms (Bayh is 
in the tooth fairy." funds behind him, Anderson clear-cut winner and a clear-cut running for his fourth) is fin­Bayh responded in kind last doesn't appeal to strict idealists loser. Half of the people will be ishing his second term in the US week, supporting his claim that who follow Reagan or strict happy, the other half will be 
House, where his record has Quayle is backed by "big oil" by realists who back Carter. Anderson saddened and perhaps terrified. come under sharp fire from the distributing to the press a has many new and innovative 
In either case, the nextfour years liberal camp. detailed listing of all the oil­ideas and an intelligence and will be a test to see if the disaf­John Brademas, who faces a affiliated donations Quayle has candor which political veterans fected half can conform to the 
tough fight of his own against received in the campaign. 
find refreshing, but no distinct vision of the victor. 
another product of the GOP 
The mud, obviously, has been vision ofwhat America can be. In In many ways, this election mold, told The Observer recently, 
thick, the rhetoric perhaps short, he has borrowed from seems reminiscent of the elec­
"Danny Quayle has no more 
thicker. But a more personal, both conflicting · philosophies tion of 1932, when the challenger business in the US Senate than gut issue could be the deciding (no matter that he may have Franklin Roosevelt defeated the the man in the moon. He factor in this race: unemploy­borrowed the best of each), and incumbent Republican Herbert 
doesn't have a single bill to his ment. The Indiana labor force the result has been to sacrifice ..,._ 0 .)Ver by a landslide. That year 
name, he doesn't show up at a 
has been ravaged worse than mass appeal. Idealists who might Americans u1ose to cast off the lot of committee meetings... almost any other state in the 
follow Reagan, but cannot for 

.He's a nice fellow, but he's out union. Voters are looking for some reason, 11ave tended to 
of his league." someone to blame, and Re­abandon Anderson because of Bayh also makes the attend-publicans are quick to direct the his liberal and essentially 
Brademas 

[continued from page 8]
• 
This coupon entitles you to your _f!rst Rezou~d copy for just 99~ at •• 

• 
any participating dealer. Add1t1onal cop1es of your ongmal John Brademas'long tenure in cassette are at regular prices (see below). The Rezound copy • office may prompt the citizens of


• 

the Third District to cast their 
= 99¢ ::::~: :Fd the hig:::::~=~ce are i:::::~n one pric:TH =. votes for Hiler, according to Kraemer. "Our research indicates 
CASSETTE COPY TIME PRICE COUPON 
that voters feel that the Con­
=JNTRaXJCT()RY 30 minute ....... 1 minute ......... $2.19 . . . . . . . . 99~ • 
gressman has lost touch; he no
• CJf'FER 60 minute ....... 2 minutes......... $2.89 . . . . . . . . 99~ • 
longer identifies with his voters, and his voters no longer identify 
=12e2[)l,N0 1:~~::: !~:~:::: :;;: ::: =with him," Kraemer stated. 
status quo and take a new' line toward solving the nation's economic difficulties. History has proven that voters ofthe '30s made the right choice. This elec­tion represents the same kind of choice: Do we want to follow the Republican philosophy to solve our problems or the Democratic program? The difference this time is that the incumbent, and the man who must take respon­sibility for those problems, is the Democrat, and the man offering change is the Republican. 
Whatever the outcome, history will remember this election year as typical of the decade that preceded it. The '70s will be remembered as the time when America took her lumps. Water­gate, sex scandals, social vapidity, and the taking ofthe hostages are only a few examples of this nation being torn down to size. Tomorrow, the nation will decide whether to roll with the punches and adjust to our new status; or to begin the crusade back to preeminence. 
now the fates of Brademas and Hiler lie behind the curtains of the voting booth. 
On this election eve, when the campaign managers of the res­pective candidates were asked to offer their predictions of the results, both foresaw victory. Roos called for a close contest, with "Brademas winning ·by a 

Whether or not the voters take two or three percentage point
NGCENTERS Retailer Redemption Procedure: When cashing this coupon, • 
• 
CASSETTECOPYI please circle the copy cassette size and initial it at the time of this, ·or any other point that has margin." While not offering a 

• 
purchase. Then anytime after the date of this promotion, send us • been made in this congressional margin of victory, Kraemer ex­your coupons for redemption. We will replace each coupon with a • campaign into consideration pressed optimism. "We believe


• 
fresh cassette and mvo1ce you at seventy cents ($.70) each • when casting their ballots tomor­that our campaign is on target for 

• 
regardless of cassette SIZ~!. Send to: 1401-B West River Road 


row, no one can be sure. The the election .of John Hiler on
• North, Mpls., MN 55411 Coupon.bplres 11/15/80 • 
campaign is winding down, and-November4," Kraemer claimed. 
The Observer Monday, November 3, 1980 -page 7 
Opinion 
The electoral process: shOuld it be revamped? 
By Anthony Walton 
The l~st two presidential elections have exposed 
some major flaws in our election process. In 1976, 
the Democrats ended up with Jimmy Carter as 
their nominee without really knowing anything 
about him, and this year the general consensus of 
the public seems to be against the three major 
candidates, in that there is a lot of distress and 
disappointment over the choices. 
"Worst choices ever" and "the lesser of two (or three) evils" are catch-phrases bandied about this year, and there is a lot ofconcern as to how we got into this predicament. Aren't there better can­didates out there? Why aren't they running? Why aren't more known quantities running? Where are the statesmen, the John Kennedys, the Adlai Stevensons, even the Dwight Eisenhowers and Richard Nixons. All these men, whether you liked them personally or not, had long records ofpublic involvement and service. They were not profes­sional presidential candidates, as the victorious candidates seem to have to be now. I think the recent trends form a serious indictment of the system, and illustrate the need for some specific reforms. 
The way the current system is constructed, a person has to be independently wealthy and "meaningfully unemployed" to make a serious run at the presidency. This is because the best way to get elected is to spend two years canvassing Iowa and New Hampshire, especially New Hampshire, in order to make a strong showing in the early caucus and primary. Looking back at the 1976 election, Carter did not become a serious can­didate until he won the Iowa caucus, ahd after this victory, he suddenly became the frontrunner. If you are a senator or congressman, you do not have the time to spend shaking hands, and if you are not independently wealthy, you do not have the money. So the possibility of making a concerted effort in a campaign becomes open to a select few who can meet these criteria. This flaw in the system resulted from, and is propagated by the most serious flaw, that of the primary system. 
The primary system as it stands now is theor­etically sound, in the sense that it allows for nationwide exposure ofcandidates while retaining local involvement and influence in choosing the preferred candidates and delegates. By stretching the process over a six month period, there is plenty of time to watch the candidates in action, and expose any shortcomings. But in practice the primaries tend to have a snowball effect, in that whoever wins the previous week's primary has the best chance of winning this week's. This is why New Hampshire and Iowa are so crucial. The new~ media pick up on these winners and make them the focus of attention, if only for a week. So an early win can give anyone credibility, and if that person runs an intelligent campaign, the win can be parlayed into a• nomination. 
There are several things wrong with th!s, the first and most notable being the magnitude that this assigns Iowa and New Hampshire in the primary process. Why should two of the smallest and least diverse states in the union be given such influence? New Hampshire is rural,_ Yankee, white, and conservative. (It is also served by the most unscrupulous newspaper in the country, the Manchester Union Leader, published by William Loeb. Loeb has made a career of publishing scandalous, unsubstantiated attacks upon can­didates, making them look bad without time to refute the charges. His hatchet jobs upon Phil Crane and Ed Muskie are the most notorious.) Iowa is rural, white, and dominated by one indus­


n 

IN STOCK SPECIALS: 
Springsteen -The River (2 Record Set) $10.50 -Drama 
$5.70 Costello -Taking Liberties $5.30 Jackson -Beat Crazy $5.30 Steve Forbert -Little Stevie Orbit 
$5.30 Heads-Remain in Light $5.10 
+ everyday low order prices $8.98 list for $5.99 $7.98 list for $5.45 
-Mon-Fri 12:15-4:00 -2nd Floor Lafortune -Ticket Office Services Commissioner 
Robert J~ DuComb, Jr. A reputation for leadership and integrity. 
State Representative Robert J. DuComb has earned a reputation for leadership and integrity. During his eight years of service, he's been a strong advocate of the State Scholarship Assistance Program that's helped students at St. Mary's, Notre Dame and other colleges and universities in Indiana. He's fought for quality education at all levels. 
He's been cited for legislative leadership by the Indiana Council of Churches. So vote to keep Bob DuComb on the job. 


Authorized and paid for by Volunteers for DuComb, James Dettling, treasurer. 
try, agriculture. If one comes across as farmer­
oriented in Iowa, he will have a distinct advantage. 
If there has to be a primary system like the 
present one, the first primaries should at least be 
held in a state like New York, California, Ohio, or 
Illinois, where there is a more representative 
diversity among the voters. I would rather, however, 
see a restructuring of the system into a national 
primary day, say the first Tuesday in June, where 
all primaries would be held on the same day. This 
would correct the irregularities I mentioned above. 
Another possibility would be four district primaries, 
with the country divided vertically into four north­
south regions, all primaries to occur in the same 
month, the order rotating by election. The cam­
paign could start on a specific day, say January 1. 
This would give the candidates plenty of time w 
tour the country, have televised debates, and make 
themselves known. 
We don't need four-year presidential campaigns. (One of the reasons Reagan won this year was that his campaign machinery never really stopped after he lost in 1976.) These lengthy campaigns do nothing but waste money and time, and they for~e the incumbent to spend the last two years of his term, when he should be at his most effective, worrying about re-election. Why can other coun­tries have elections in four to eight weeks time? I admit that this country is much larger and has more concerns, but six months should be plenty long enough. 
A few other reforms that could be helpful would be an ending offederal financing, reopening of the conventions, and standardized forums for a mean­ingful exchange and comparison of platforms and ideas. Federal financing has no place in presiden­tial campaigns. The candidates should be respon­sible for raising their own funds. This would increase public and party accountability, and decrease the waste that matching funds encourage. A maverick can enter the race, raise enough money (or use his own through "loans" to his campaign) for the early primaries, and then count on the federal money to sustain the campaign. If a can-.. didate can't raise enough on his own, maybe he shouldn't be in the race. If he doesn't have party support to help in raising money, he shouldn't b'e in the party. The funding laws were established in 
(continued on page 10) 
nounces 


·--------------------------------~· 
------~-------------­
The Observer Monday, November 3, 1980 pageS 
The electoral college 
Format favors t-wo-party system. 
in St Joseph County. ese numbers comprise what called "one of the worst situations in the 
in the country." 
way to solve the problem unemployment is to bring new ustries to the area. The mas campaign claims that r man has done this, citing as pies a bank-hotel-office lex currently being con­in South Bend, and a ~~:r>.rm.. to..nP constructed synthetic plant. The incumbent con­~ressma.n has charged Hiler with to prevent industry developing in northern ndiana. Kraemer stated that this just not so. Instead, the uu.w..D"' candidate, according is approaching on a broader 
"The current economic woes a result of a poor national We cannot look only resolution of our own .,r·.-.n..-.nn•· woes," Kraemer pointed 
that this is unrealistic," Roos said. 
This charge has been countered by Hiler's campaign. Kraemer '-''-'''..,,...... out that Brademas has 
presented a tax plan of his 
Also, Kraemer claimed that incumbent had not considered entire proposal. 
"One must look at the total ......""'u'Roth plan. Brademas has addressed the tax cut. The calls for some tightening of spending. This is feasible practical," Kraemer ex­
ment in the establishment of new ethanol plant in South B as a case in point. 
Hiler is also a proponent synthetic fuel. In addition, Hile favors the research and develop­ment of safe nuclear power, according to Kraemer. pointed out that the this research could come the revenue realized th windfall profits tax. Amid '-""'"n~v 1 from the Brademas ca that Hiler would like to the windfall profits tax, explained that his would like to see that part of tax system modified so that larger portion ofthe tax could used to underwrite research. Kraemer stated that the present time only 15 oercenu of the tax goes back into conser­vation and production. "W would like to see more plowed back into energy 1e:sc:'u'-u• and development," Kraemer said 
Kraemer: "the Congressman has lost touch." 
The question of ability has also entered into contest.JohnBrademas has in the House for 22 years, while Hiler has never held public office. 
':John Hiler went to '-""''-"''-·•• then graduate school. Then went to work for his 'daddy,' los an election for state senator wants to go to Congress. doesn't have any experience government," Roos pointed out. 
Kraemer felt that Hiler's perience will not pose a problem. "I don't see a lack of experience as a plus or a minus. People are looking for solutions, and John Hiler has them," Kraemer ex­plained. 
(continued on page 
By Earl G. Rix 
With every quadrennial pres­idential election, the efficiency of the uniquely American elec­toral college is again questioned. Is it representative of the people's choice? Is it an unnecessary step in the election process? Since independentJohn B. Anderson's candidacy could possibly take the choice from the electoral college (and the people) by send­ing it into the House of Represen­tatives for a tiebreaker, the process has drawn even closer scrutiny in 1980. 
The electoral college has chosen the president in the last 47 U.S. elections. Fourteen times the winner has not received a major­ity of the popular vote. Three times the winner of the popular vote did not become president. 
In 1824 Andrew Jackson re­ceived 43.13 percent of the popular vote compared to John Adams' 30.54 percent. Adams became the president after the election was thrown into the House. 
In 1876 Democratic candidate Samuel]. Tilden recieved 50.99 percent of the popular vote but lost the electoral vote to Repub­lican Rutherford B. Hayes, whom he had beaten by 250,000 votes. This election was a classic case of the electoral college mal­functioning. Disputed slates of electors from four states were judged by a "bipartisan" com­mittee elected -by Congress. The eight Republican and seven Democratic committee members voted the party line and Hayes became president. 
In 1888 Grover Cleveland beat Benjamin Harrison in the popular vote, but lost the electoral vote and, therefore, the presidency. 
Tomorrow Americans will vote, not for the various pres­idential candidates, but for a slate ofelectors chosen by the various political parties. There is no provision in the Constitution or federal law to prevent an elector from voting for someone other than his party's candidates. On occasion electors have done just that. They are only bound by custom or pledge. 
The system dictates that each state receives an electoral vote for each senator and represen­tative. Indiana has 13 electoral votes by virtue ofits two senators and 11 representatives. It makes absolutely no difference how many people in Indiana vote. The entire slate ofelectors of the party picking up the most votes in the statewide election is elected, and the electoral vote in each state is thereafter cast as a unit. 
When no candidate receives a majority of the electoral votes, the House of Representatives proceeds immediately to elect by ballot from the three candidates standing highest in electoral votes. A majority ofstates is needed for 
election. • . 
The fact that each state recetVes 
just one vote, as decided ~y a 
majority of its representat1ves, 
has come under harsh criticism. 
If the election is thrown into the 
House, California gets one vote 
and so does Rhode Island. F~tr 
vice president, if a majority is 
lacking in the electoral college, 
the Senate elects from the two 
highest candidates. . 
Although it is largely 1gnored, the nuances of the electoral college ~!most had an effect in two recent elections. If Repub­lican Thomas Dewey had received 

0.6 percent more in just two states, the 1948 election would have been thrown into the House. That might have resulted in a deadlock, given the political alignment of the House at that time. In 1960, a shift of 23,000 votes in Texas and4,500 votes in Illinois would have given Richari:l Nixon the presidency but not the popular vote. 
John Kennedy's margin of 4,500 votes in the close 1960 presidential race shows us some of the political realities created by the electoral college. Illinois is the fifth largest state in the union and it almost was the difference in the 1960 election. Mayor Richard Daley's Chicago Democratic machine managed to barely offset a Republican majority downstate. Because he could get out the vote, legally or illegally (as some have alleged), and because he could deliver a state like Illinois to Kennedy, Daley wielded tremendous pol­itical power. 
With the winner-take-all nature of the electoral college, with so much at stake in such a close election, the incentive for fraud is tremendous. A few thousand votes in a situation like Illinois in 1960 do not mean just a few thousand votes. They mean a very large block of electoral votes, and in 1960 they very nearly swayed the election. 
As a result of the winner-take­all system, the closely contested populous states are crucial. That is where the candidates campaign and that is where the money is spent. Increasing the plurality in a state thata candidate expects to win comfortably pays him no dividends in terms of electoral votes. That is why Ronald Reagan has spent relatively little money and effort in Indiana, a state he expects to win without heavy campaigning. 
The electoral college was originally a compromise beween those who wanted the president elected by Congress, those who favored election by the state legislatures, and those who favored the popular vote. It also was a compromise_ between the small states and the large states. In a concession to the small states, electoral votes were in­cluded for senators as well as representatives. It was expected 
that the election would be decided 
by the House more than proved 
to be the case. The small states 
wanted and received the provision 
that gives each state one vote if 
the election is thrown to the 
House. 
The electorate was believed to be incapable of making an in­formed, educated, or even intel­ligent choice if left to their own devices. Alexander Hamilton said that the electors "will be most likely to possess the information and discernment requisite" to pick a good president. The elec­tors quickly evolved from decision­makers to puppets. The fact that there are still electors rather than an automatic casting of the elec­toral vote demonstrates how this entire antiquated electoral college lingers on, no longer serving the purpose for which it was intended 
Those who defend the electoral college say that the two-party system is preserved by the present system's winner-take-all nature and say that our stable political structure would erode if a direct popular vote elected the pres­ident. The fact that a candidate must win a state to get any electoral votes discourages third parties and independent can­didates. This is one reason the electoral college has been in effect so long. The two major parties have little to gain by a switch to a direct popular vote for president. The view that the discouragement of third-party and independent candidates is good for the country, however, is predicated on the judgement that the political parties are better able to choose candidates than the electorate is. 
In 1967 the American Bar Association appointed a Blue­Ribbon commission to study the electoral college. The committee characterized the electoral college as, "archaic, undemocratic, com­plex, ambiguous, indirect and dangerous." It suggested that, "Direct popular vote would eliminate the princir,le defects in the present system . 

john Htler is astong challengerfor the congressionalspot held by Rep. john Brademus, even though Brademus is the third most powerful man in the House of representatives.  
. Hiler challenges • •  
(continued from page 5) On the subject ofenergy, said that his candidate favors igures as 16 percent in Elkhart, development of synthetic fuels, 0.5 percent in Laporte, and 11 He offered Brademas' involve­ 

(continued from page 10) 
went to college, then graduate 
school. After this he went to 
work for his d(lddy, lost an elec­
tion for state senator, and wants 
to go to Congress. He doesn't 
have any experience in govern­
ment. 
Getting on to public policy 
issues, I think that there is a 
whole range ofdifferences. Hiler 
is essentially a doctrinaire, laissez­
faire, economic capitalist. He 
believes that the free enterprise 
system is fundamentally right 
and that it doesn't need correction 
by the government. He believes 
that in a variety of areas such as 
regulation policy, safety, and in 
national needs such as energy 
that essentially we should leave 
these to the private enterprise 
system; which many times means 
down in the lower standards. 
The Third District Biblical Morality Society is handing out "smear" literature by the tens of 
... Roos 
thousands. The Political Actio~ Committee has also targeted h1S defeat. A tremendous number_of groups have attempted to m­fluence the outcome, so there has been a tremendous amount of attention paid in the race. I think it's a complicated set of 
factors. 
Q: How wouldyou respond t? those who say that they will vote agatnst the current establishment in Congress? 
A: well, of course everyone has their own theories. Personal­ly I don't think that makes a lot of sense. One always has the 
Q: In The Observer mock elec­tion, Brademas was defeated by a 15 percent margin. What do you think that this signifies? 
A: I think that essentially it tallies with schools like Notre Dame, which draw more and more from the upper-middle class constituency. Students from that background tend to be more conservative. 




------~------­ 
r, I  The Observer  Monday, November 3, 1980 -page 10  

• • • Walton· 
the spirit of reform, but the results have not been • • .Roos 
satisfactory. Gift and spending limits should be set, and let the federal government stay out of it (continued from page 5) after that. 
ratsmg, recruiting volunteers, about 10.5 percent in LaPorte. which make people upset. Weclosed (the delegates
The conventions were and getting out voter operations This occurred in a period offour have been targeted by an enor­
were bound) to eliminate the party bosses, but this and registration. months, because of the heavy mous number of groups. Theprevents the removal of an undesirable candidate Obviously I don'tphysically do dependence on autos and auto Republican National Committeeafter a sudden change. It also makes the conven­all ofthese things. Our operation related industry, which is the is one of these groups, both intions very superfluous, as many times the issue has is really almost like a small insti­basic industry in this area. terms ofstaffhelp, commercials, already been settled. The conventions should be tution. I have to decide on who is Given that, we have one of the and financial help. The Johnreturned to their original, deliberative nature. A going to have what division of worst unemployment situations Birch Societies were districtsgood candidate will be able to hold his delegates. 
labor, and appoint people to in the state, as well as in the dramatically against Brademas.
The forum idea would encourage hard looks at the have certain responsibilities in country. responsibility as a voter to try to issues, rather than the empty exchanges of mean­those areas. This was not particularly evaluate the particular candidates ingless rhetoric; , All candidates (even the Over the course of the cam­Brademas' fault. For example, and their impact on the system. 
Communists) could present their ideas and perhaps paign we've had about 3,000 last year the unemployment rate Personally, one of the reasonsthe public could see the differences. Also ifa third volunteers involved. We have was below the national average. that I work forJohn Brademas isparty has something special, someone besides the seven headquarters in three In most years, our level is below because I think that the countryintellectuals could hear about it. 
counties and a several hundred the national average. The sudden does have problems. We haven't I think that many of the problems in the thousand dollar budget. Basical­and dramatic increase came as changed the international situa­presidential campaigns arose because. of TV. 
ly, I'm the chiefexecutive officer the recession deepened in April tion, we have unstable foreignPhotogenic candidates, newsmakers and contro­in that operation. and May. This seta very localized relations, and people are frus­• versial figures all have advantages. Itis too easy to Q: On the average, how many hours condition of discontent. trated with the prospects of a take what someone says on TV at face value per week do you contribute to the changed position in the world. 
without delving into his record and policies. It campaign? Secondly, I think that It's at this time that we need discourages thoughtful, but dull figures, Adlai A: About 75 hours a week. Brademas has been singled out to people who have proven over a 
Stevenson of Illinois for example, from seeking of years they are
Q: By what margin do you expect some extent because of his period that office. This is very disturbing when you consider BrademtJS to win? position of House leadership. basically decent and honest; they that we elected presidents for 160 years without A: Under ten percent To be That is to say that people are must have demonstrated stability, TV, Most people never saw the president, as a absolutely frank, I think that this looking for easy answers, and good judgement, the courage to candidate or in office, so the policies and results, is going to be a very close elec­since he is the Majority Whip, stand up, and they must have not the personalties, were the issue. ButTV can be tion, possibly within two or three some assume that he is respon­made basically right decisions in turned into an advantage, if it can be made to be percentage points. sible for everything that happens previous states of turmoil. 
more responsible to the voter. 
Q: It has been said that this is the in the country. This is a gross Q: What do you think are the majorPolitics in America are not dead. All the great toughest btdeverfor Brademas, as well oversimplification. The House issues in this campaign?
...,leaders are not gone. We just have to change the as many other veterans of Congress. Whip does have a little morf• A: One certainly would be the system so that good candidates will want .to run. 
What do you see as the reasonsfor these access and influence, butwe have leadership question. That is to , One side of this issue says, "Why would anyone problems? a very decentralized, multi­say, there is a question of who want to run for president? Why have your personal A: Well, I hear several reasons. centered form of government, can significantly contribute to life dragged out in front of people for two years? 
First, we have a temporary set of which doesn't allow even the sound public policy decisions,Why live out of a suitcase for that long?" Well I very dramatic economic con­president to control what and I think that the difference think that ifit can be made a little easier and more ditions in the Third District of happens. here is significant. Hiler has attractive to run, those great statesmen may start Indiana. That is to say we have never "learned" anything in his
~ppearing again. It doesn't have to be like this, life. He has never held an exec­
approximately 16 percent une­Third, i think that some ofthe
Jhese Carter-Ford and Carter-Reagan choices, but mployment in Elkhart, about 11 Republicans realize mainly the utive or elected position. Hiler
1.s long as the system is set up as it is, it will be. 
percent in St. Joe County, and short-term economic problems 
[continued on page 8] 

......_._•,ACCOUNTING MAJORSj • 
< • 
Are you wondering whether to jolrf an accounting firm where you will work closely with engagement partner$ or a large national 
I 

firm with International scope and .Influence? 
Main Hurdman & Cranstoun 
Invites you to join both. 
Main Hurdman & Cranstoun, a Cranstoun has all the research founding member. of Klynveld capabilities, coordinated mar­Main Goerdeler, one of the keting strengths, and compre­largest public accounting hensive educational programs organizations in the world, of an international firm, offers diverse client engage­while providing all the ad­ments and all the opportuni­vantages -close client con­ties for accelerated profes­tact, frequent partner/staff sional growth that a young interaction, informal working accountant could ask for. atmosphere, and rapid advance­With practice offices in 81 ment to positions of respon­
U.S. cities and 70 foreign sibility-today's professionals countries, Main Hurdman & seek. 
Main H'urdman & Cranstoun invites you to explore the best of both worlds. 
STUDENT RECEPTION IN THE
PLACEMENT OFFICE SIGN-UP ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS UNIVERSITY CLUB
WEEK OF NOVEMBER 3rd NOVEMBER 13th & 14th 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12th 7:00 P.M.
I I 
-Main Hurdman&Cranstoun 
certified public accountants fi·-l ,~
':"' 

~-----------------------t:t· . . 7 
-""<, . . ' 

InternationAl firm · KMG Klynveld Main Goerdeler 
..................................iilliiliiiillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliE~UAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYERIIIIIIIIIIII. 



~-~---~­
-----~----------~------­
...........---­

The Observer Monday, November 3, 1980-page 11 
• .. Quayle 
am opposed to an increase in of us has any influence over it. ------------------. (continued'onpagel2} 
: SMC REPORTERS 
t 1••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••1 
(continued from page I) 
sarily a political move, I feel it was a right move. The embargo hasn't hurt the Russians at all, the embargo has hurt the Hoosier farmer and it hurt the farmers a lot more than it hurt the Russians. The Russians don't understand symbolic things like the Olympic boycott or grain embargoes, they only understand strength and influ­ence and power. That's what the foreign policy ought to be based on rather than symbolic gestures which aren't going to do any damage at all. 
Q: How do you judge the success of the Olympic boycott? 
SMC student body picks CANCO charity 
by Linda Weeks 

The SMC student govern­
ment sponsored a charity sur­
vey several weeks before Oct­
ober break , and as a result of 
that survey the Child Abuse and 
Neglect Coordinating Organi­
zation (CANCO) is now the of­
ficial charity of St. Mary's Col­
lege. 
This charity survey was th result ofa decision made by the SMC student goveernment to allow the student body to choose which charity it would support. In the past, United Way had been the school charity, but it had never ac­tually been endorsed by the students. 
SMC students had seven charities, including United Way, from which to choose. The survey ended in a tie be­tween CANCO and St. Jude's Hospital. A second vote be­tween the two was held, and CANCO was chosen over St. 
Jude's by a margin of50.25% to 49.75%. 
Because ofsuch a close finish, St. Jude's will receive all pro­ceeds from the SMC Christmas bazaar; in the past, all profits from the bazaar were divided between the official school charity and another charity. 
t MEETING I= :monday,nov 3at 6pm I: 
t '• 
A REGINA SOUTH f • 
'  
f  BASEMEN'T  
f A  NEW  

'
! REPORTERS
' WELCOME 
f 
Box Q, NolTe Dame, IN 46.5.56 
The Observer is an independent nev.:spaper ~ublished by the students of t~e University of Notre Dame du ~.c and_ Samt ~ary ~ C<?llese. It does not ~ecessanly reflect the policies of the adm1mstrauon _of enhe~ m~tuuuon. The news 1~ r_eported as accurately and as objectively as possible: Edno_n~ls represent the opm1on .of a majority of the Editorial Board. _Comr1_1entanes, opm10ns, and letters are th.e v1ews of their authors. Column space IS available to all members of the c~mmumty, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, 1s encouraged. 
A •
' 

f •
f •
• 
Monaurol copies, eve<y time. Versatile: Make 1. 2, 3 or 100 copies. 
f • SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR DETAILS.
Form 12680
---------' •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
A: I suppose it had ·some de­gree of success as far as boy­cotting Moscow. I didn't like the site, I didn't want to boycott the Olympics. The Administra­tion should have moved the Olympics elsewhere, so our athletes could have participat­ed. Those athletes really work­ed hard, they trained hard, they are entitled to some sort of competition. 
Q: It's not up to the Administra­tion to move the Olympics. 
A: No, but they could cer­tainly hae taken much more aggressive leadership. I'm sure that it was their influence that made the Olympic Committee 
In an effort to increase a­wareness and drum up support, the SMC student government will sponsor CANCO Week from November 17-24. CANCO representatives will present a film about child abuse and the CANCO organization. In each hall, each class will sponsor a fund raising event. THere will also be door-to-door colllections by students, some­thing which has never been done at St. Mary's before; the goal for the colection is 100% participation. 
CANCO is a community or­ganization which deals with prevention and treatment of child abuse. Both parent and child are victims of child abuse, and CANCO has many pro­grams designed to help both victims. CANCO operates an Emergncy Child Care Center which provides immediate, short-term treatmnt for abused children. CANCO also sponsors a Parent's Aid Program, a Welcome Baby program, and a Diagnostic Counseling Service to give psychological aid to both parent and child. 
Anyone wishing more infor­mation or desiring to help is asked to call Donna Shannon at 5103. 

decide not to go. Had not the Administration decided not to go, I'm sure the Olympic Com­mittee would have gone ahead and gone, since they pushed them in that direction they should have pushed the other governments to take the lead and try to find alternate sites. But there was very little action that was done. 
Q: 
You don't think there was? You don't think that we pushed other governments to try to get an alternate Olympics set up? 

A: Very little. 

Q: 
You said that you think places like the Soviet Union don't under­stand symbolic things, they under­stand power. What things are you supporting in that area? 


A: There is no doubt about it that our military power is not whatitoncewas. We don't have the shipbuilding, we don't have the tanks, we don't have the personnel. The aborted rescue mission in Iran underscored American impotence. TheSovi­et Union has a brigade in Cuba, nothing was done about it. The Cubans export revolution to Africa, and the Administration throws up its hands and says "so what." The Soviet Union in­vades Afghanistan and what's the response? Grain embargo, Olympic boycott and nothing else. We've got to say that we're going to have a strong, deter­mined national security. The President campaigned on cut­ting defense spending and he's been very succesful. in doing it. That type of philosophy has gotten us into a very weakened international position. 
Q: On another subject, Senator Bayhtoldusyesterdaythatwhileyou charge that he has not moved to cut down government spending or gov­ernment regulations, that you have not done that etther. Do you agree wrththatassessment? 
A: I was the one that led the fighHo kill Ralph Nader's con­sumer protection agency that did away with thousands and thousands of bureaucrats. There was an amendment on the Department of Education that put the cap on the number of employees that the depart­ment ofEducation could have. I have been not only saying that I 
INTRCJXJCTORY OFFER fOR ;: 
~ : 
~ • 
Now:Copycassettetapesyourself-• any length. Fast: Copy a one-hour • cassette in less than two minutes. Simple: Easy as xeroxing a letter. • Inexpensive: Our remarkably low • 
. . price includes the Rezound Copy • Cassette:M Accurate: Perfect • 
.•· ~ = 
Editorial Board and Department Mana,2ers 
Editor-in-Chief .......... Paul Mullaney Managing Editor ............. Mark Rust Editorials Editor ......... Mike Onufrak Senior Copy Editor . ........ Lynne Daley Executive News Editor .... Tom Jackman News Editor .............. Pam Degnan SMC Executive Editor .... Margie Brassil SMC News Editor ......... Mary Leavitt 
After years ofextensive study, the government has rrm•rtuaPa safest place to dump chemical waste is the main quad ofthe Notre Dame 
Campus.. (photo by Chris Salvino} 
government, but my legislative achievements will reflect that. He's the one that has never once been recorded as voting against any agency, 399 have been created sincc:: he's been there for 18 years, not one time has he voted against any agency. He voted sincerely, and there's just a disagreement that more and more government is better for us. I don't think it is. I think it's time to reduce the size ofthe government. 
Q: You do not agree wrth the existence of the consumer protection agency or feel that they are an ef fective organization? ,. 
A: There are about 23 dif­ferent consumer affairs within each governmental branch. I think that is the best way to do it. 1 do not think that you should create one super con­sumer protection agency and leave all these other consumer protection agencies in there, this is just an idea that Ralph Nader's going to have. 1 find that there's a big difference be­tween the consumer activists and consumers as whole, we're all consumers. What Ralph Nader proposes as far as air bags sometimes is not what the con-
Sports Editor ............ Beth Huffman Features Editor ........... Molly Woulfe Photo Editor .............. .John Macor 
Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges Controller................... .Jim Rudd Advertising Manager . ......... Mark Ellis Circulation Manager ....... Beth Hackett Production Manager ......John McGrath 
sumer wants. 
Q: Senator Bayh also charges that you missed one out ofever six votes in Congress last year. Can you respond tn thnt? 
A: I had a very good attend­ance record and I'd be glad to compare attendance records with Senator Bayh. My first two years in the United States Sen­ate my attendance rating was 90 percent. His first two years in the United States Senate his attendance was 83 percent and 79 percent. His overall attend­ance rating is 75 percent com­pared with my attendance rat­ing of 85 percent. So I have a much better attendance record than Senator Bayh, he knows that. 
Q: What is your affiliation with theNCPAC(NationalConservative Political Action Committee}? 
A: I don't have any associa­tion with them. I have no idea who these people are. I have told them to stay out of the state. It's a free country and if they want to come in they can. He has his national abortion people coming into the state, I can't stop them and he can't stop these people. Neither one 


-


The Observer page 12 
ND STUDENT PLAYERS
• • Presents • • 
Announce Auditions 
: : The 1980 pre-election movie: : : 
for 
PIPPIN

i i KING'S ROW i i 
• • Starring • • 
Tonight 6:30 p.m. 

: : RONALD REAGAN : : 
Lafortune Ballroom 

No Preparation Wear Comfortable
•

•• e• Monday, Nov.~ 7, 9,_& 11 p.m. •• •e 
1--~ t nr···--·-~~~~er·um._...~-------t ·-···-1~­
'r '
r 
' 
I ~ 
~ 
•~
, ,' 
' 
: : The Graduate Student Union : : 
Q: How important is a Reagan Lugar did in 1976? just don't believe that. 
may be set up somewhere else victory to your campaign? A: I don't know what Lugar Q: You charged that alot of his A:·Ya, they "just happen" to 
A: Well, ~bviously I hope spent in '76, but I'm sure there's funding was coming/rom out ofstate, have a mailing address of New Ronald Reagan does very well. I no way ... so he made public all ofhis donations
QandA 
York or Boston or Washington

don't think it's critical to my Q: About $750,000. anditseemedthat a greatdealofthem D.C, but it really comes from 
campaign.My campaign is go­A: We'll spend more than came from in state. Indiana, well if you believe that ing to be decided between Dan · that. But there's no way we will A: What I was referring to was 
you belive in the tooth fairy.Qyayle and Birch Bayh. I don't be able to match what Senator the itemized contributions on 
Q: Why should the. voters of this
with 

think that Ronald Reagan is Bayh will be able to raise and his reports that he has to file 
area vote for you instead of a more

going to have that much of a spend. He's the long term, well with the Federal Election 
powerful Senator like Birch Bayh?

impact in this United States financed incumbant Senator. Commission showed that 60 
A: Birch, Bayh's influenn is just

Senate race. I really don't. We're the challenger but we'll percent of his money came 
exactly what we don't need. Senator

have adequate finances and try from outside the state. I think
Q: How do you feel about thefact Bayh, Ted Kennedy and Georgethat Bitch Bayh has spent $1.8 to be able to compete with him. that's way to much.
Quayle 
McGovern represent a very liberal

mrllion in this campaign, and do you I just don't think this election is Q: He claims that they camefrom 
faction of our society. I feel that(continuedfrom page 11} plan to spend more than (Richard) ' going to be able to bought, I polttical action committees that just 

The mreerdeclsionyoumaketoday
could influence national security tomorrow. 
For professionals at NSA contribute to the dual communications-related problerm, performing long­Security Agency, fill in the information blank below ~ions or foreign intelligence production and range mathematical research or evaluating new and send it to Mr. Bernard Norvell, CoUege Recruit­communications security. 
techniques for communications security. ment Manager, National Security Agency, Attn: Office Our Electronic Engineers, Computer Scientists and Unpists: NSA offers a wide range of challeng-· of Employment (M32R), Fort George G. Meade, Mathematiciam are working with systerm at the ing assignments for Slavic, Near Eastern and Asian Maryland 20755. cutting edge or technology. language majors involving translation, transcription An Equal Opportunity Employer. U,S. citizemhip Ca.rrer opportunities and challenge await you in and analysis/reporting. Newly-hired linguists can required. any of these NSA career fiellh. count on receiving advanced training in their primary Electronic: Engineering: There are oppor­languageS and can plan on many years of continued 
tunities in a variety of research and development professional growth. projects ranging from individual equipments to very NSA also offers asalary and benefit program that's complex interactive systems involving large numbers truly competitive with private industry. There are 
~ ~ The National 
of microprocessors, mini-computers and computer assignments for those who wish to travel and abun­
~ ·W F Seturity
graphics. Professional growth is enhanced through dant good living in the Baltimore-Washington area interaction with highly experienced NSA professionals for those who wish to stay close to home. ~~.o.~J Agency and through contacts in the industrial and academic Countless cultural, historical, recreational and worllh. Facilities for engineering analysis and design educational opportunities are just minutes away from More than just a career. automation are among the best available. ' NS& convenient suburban location. r-------------------1 
Computer Sdenc:e: At NSA you'll discover one At NSA your future will be linked to the nation's. 
1 I'd like more information about care<r opportunitie5 with NSA. 1 
I I
of the largest computer installations in the world withi The vital role that the National Security Agency plays I Name (print) 1 almost every major vendor of computer equipment demands and ensures constant challenge and profes­
\1 I Address I represented. NSA careers provide mixtures of such ; sional growth. I I I I
disciptines as systerm analysis and 1esign, scientific · 1b find out more about NSA career opportunities, 
1 Phone No. I 
apptications programming. data base management sche4ule an interview through your college placement 
I I 
systern'i, operating systerm, computer net\mrkingl 1 office. For additional information on the National 1 Degree l.ev<l Major 1 security, and graphics. \ :···· 
I I I Univmity I
Mathematks: You'll work on diverse Agency 
\ L------------------­
problerm applying a variety or mathematical disci­
i

plines. Specific assignments might include solving 
I 
l 
\ 
i 
\ 
' 
liberalism has helpedputpeople outof work, it has causedhigh inflation, it's contributed to the demise of our national defense. That kind of in­fluence and that kind of leadership people ofthis area don't want and I'm convincedthepeople ofIndiana do not want it either. I think they are going to votefor a new generation ofleader­ship that is going to work to define the /imtts ofthe federal government, de­
fine where the federal government ought to be involved and to try and strengthen our superiority. So I would say that his kind ofleadership is exactly what we don't need. 
• • . Poll 
(continued from page 1) 
ready voted, 8~8 percent would not vote, and 3.4 percent were undecided. 
As to registration, 33.3 per­cent were registered as Repub­lican, 35.5 percent as Demo­crat, 24.4 percent as Indepen­dent, and 6.8 percent were not registered. Registered Demo-­crats voted as follows: 68.7 5 percent for Carter, 12.75 per­cent for Reagan, 6.25 percent for Anderson, 6.25 percent un­decided while 6.25 percent wanted to keep their vote sec­ret. Republicans handed 80.0 percent of their vote to Reagan, 
13.3 3 percent to Anderson, and 
6.67 percent would not reveal their choice. 36.4 percent of Independents nodded assent to Reagan, 27.2 percent to Carter, 
27.2 percent to Anderson, with 
9.2 percent undecided. 
If anything, the debate help­ed but to strengthen the re­spective campaigns, as most were reluctant to admit a de­cisive contest. The real face-off still rests at the polls tomorrow. 

ROCCOS-...... 
men's and women's hairstyling at comfortable prices 531 N. Michigan 233-4957 


l 
I 
l 
The~======================================== 
~4[}c:)le3l~========================M==o=nda==y=,=N=o=v=e=m=b=e=r=3=,=19=8=0=-==p=a=ge===13
Campus 

Molarity Michael Molinelli 
• 3:30pm -itt lecture, 

"japan and the united states in a turbulent world: myths and reality," norman macrae will speak on "lessons from japanese experience," mem. lib.aud. 
• 4: 15 p.m. -english majors: find out about what you might do next year, rm 105 o'shag; meet with place­ment office. 
• 7:30 p.m. film: "double indemnity," and "the big combo," lib.avd. 




NOTRE DAME 33. NAVY 0 Scoring First Quarter 

li~ B•rber 9·yard run (Oliver kick 
Peanuts® Charles M. Schulz 
ailed) 8·0 
2:46 NO Buchanan 3·yard run (pasa failed) 12·0 Second Quarter 
ALL RIGHT, TROOPS, BILL!CONRAD! OLIVIER! HARRIET HAS A 
12:40 NO J. Stone 13·yard run (Vehr pass 
ANSWER A5 I CALL WOODSTOCK! HARRIET! I·UGI-t VOICE 
rom Condeni) 20·0 
'<OUR NAMES•••

10:43 NO Oliver 41·yard field goal 23·0 
1:28 NO Oliver 60-yard field goal 26-0 Third Quarter 
No scoring Fourth Quarter 

9:47 NO Be1127·yard run (Oliver kick) 33· 0 Total First Downs 
Notre Dame 19. Navy 11 Net Yards 
~--­
Rushing 

Notre Dame 331. Navy 44 Net Yards Passing 
ACROSS 24 Maple genus 43 Protect 13 Target 
1 Song of 25 Scottish 44 Nolan and 16 More Notre Dame 49. Navy 86 Total Offensive 
The Daily Crossword 
praise island Robert pleasingYards 
5 Travel 26 "The Com-45 Chair 23 Mine by car pleat;-" 46 Amicable productsNotre Dame 380. Navy 130 Total Yards 
10 Pierce 29 Bridge one 24 HaleyPenalized 
14 Long time strategies 48 Drench 25 Trace 
15 Actor's 32 El toro, 49 Undressed 26 Seaweed Notre Dame 56. Navy 40 
line perhaps· leather products 
16 Passing 33 Ties 52 Genuine 27 PricklyAttendance 76,891 
from side 34 Weep 53 Exhilarated pear to side, 35 Summit spirits 26 Certain for short 36 Toots one's 56 Bancroft chants 
17 February hom 57 Chaucer 29 Decrees 
Bowling Green 24. Ball St. 21 
greetings 37 Nee tale-teller 30 A Flynn Cent. Michigan 51, E. Michigan 15 
19 Part of 38 Tatter 58 Welsh 31 Church Drake 38. Wichita St. 15 
QED 39 Excite · symbol council Indiana St. 37. W. Texas St. 18 
20 Before 40 African 59 Assay 33 Nutritional 
Iowa 22. Wisconsin 13 
21 Willow dry mesa 60 Glutted fibers 
Kansas 20. Kansas St. 18 
genus 41 Blackthom 61 Ancient 36 Eyeflaps
Michigan 35. Indiana 0 
22 Hidden drinks Persian 37 Lure 
Minnesota 21, Illinois 18 
39 Eddleor 

Nebraska 38. Missouri 16 
DOWN Richard 

N. Illinois 35, Kent St. 14 

1 Own 40 Military
Ohio St. 48. Michigan St. 16 
2 Calendar dress 

Purdue 62. Northwestern 31 
word 42 Type of 

Toledo 17. Miami, Ohio 14 
3 Breakwater embroidery

W. Illinois 27, Illinois St. 0 
4 Vane 43 Made fast 

W. Michigan 13, Ohio U. 7 
letters 45 Unravel SOUTHWEST 
5 Mind over-46. Campus org. 

Furman 35. Marshall 0 
6 Willow 47 Descartes 

Houston 37. Texas Christian 5 
7 Ms Louise 48 Beef fat 

louisiana Tech 28. Arkansas St. 0 
8 Lyric poem 49 Leg joint

McNeese St. 31. TaKas-Arlington 17 
9 Cancels 50 Chilled 

Oklahoma 41, N. Carolina 7 
10 McQueen and 51. Lap dog, Allen for short Rice 17. Arkansas 16 
11 Sixty 54 Actress San Jose St. 30, Baylor 22 
11/3/80 

12 Sandarac Lillie Southern Moth. 27. Texas A&M 0 
11/1/IW tree 55 Tree Texas Tech 24. Te><as 20 
S.U. VAN LINES UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
is running weekends again 
LAW SCHOOL
Restaurant Discounts offered on the route: (with Student 10) Pizza Hut (10 %) Villa Capri (10 %) 
Representatives from the Brown's Chicken (10 %) Village Inn Pizza (10 %) 
University of Chicago will be on campus for a presentation onPonderosa (10 %) Shangi Hi (10 %) admissions, financial aid, jointEddie's (10 %) programs, etc.
and Movie Theaters on th~ route offer discount tickets: PliH (Town & Country) $2.25 Forum $1.75 
• 

University Park $2.25 
WHO: Dean Richard Badger -available through theTieketOffice, 2nd Floor LaFortune 
WHEN: Monday, Nov. 3, 7:30 p.m. WHERE: 104 O'Shaugnessy 
Ride VAN LINES: $1.00/semester-ticket office Sign-up outside 101 O'Shag
Services Commission 
or Lemans lobby 


__ The Observer

by Gary Grassey Sports Writer
Irish 

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -Dan Devine refused to sin­
gle out anybody or any unit as the key to success for his Notre Dame football team, despite the pleas of the Eastern press. 
dominate 
trenches 

"A team is a team is a team," 
River City Records & Jam Productions Present 
VANHALEN 
IN CONCERT 
Special Guest 
TALAS 

Thursday, November 6 • 8 p.m. Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets: $8.50 reserved seats still available at the ACC Box Office and River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North -3 miles north of campus. 
River City Records & Jam Productions Present 
AN EVENING WITH 

Friday, November 14 • 8:00 p.m. Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets: $9.00/$8.00 all seats reserved. Good seats still available at the ACC Box Office and River City Records, 509-70 U.S. 31 North -3 miles north of campus 

was all the departing Irish coach would offer during the inquisi­tion that followed Notre Dame's romp over the Navy. "I can't separate the special teams from the offensive line or the defense. This team just stuck together toda:y like they have every week this season." 
Butitwas obvious to anybody who witnessed the Irish. dom­ination of the Midshipmen that this Notre Dame team has made its rise to the top by dominating in the one area where all games are won and lost-in the trenches. 
For the seventh straight week, the Irish offensive line punched out enough holes to produce a 100-yard game for whoever happens to be playing tailback at the time. 
"Our offensive line has just been opening the holes," said this week's 211-yard man in the backfield, Jim Stone. "I just went out and got my job done." 
Stone, and the man he re­placed, Phil Carter, have been doing their job so well, the Irish have rarely had the need to put the ball in the air. 
"We're still a balanced attack team," said freshman quarter­back Blair Kiel, who threw just eight passes in the Navy game, "But it just so happens we've had the edge in the rushing half 
GET YOUR 

THE HAmmES NOTRE DAmE BOOKSTORE 
Monday, November 3, 1980 -page 14 
of it. We haven't needed the pass that much, but when we do, we'll use it." 
All-America center John Scully expected to see a little more passing on offense going into the season, but the potent rushing attack (286.9 yards per game) has made him a believer in land warfare. 
"From an experience point of view, I originally expected the receivers to bear more of the brunt of the attack," said the senior co-captain, "But we've been going with what we do best." 
Credit the youthful offensive line, despite disabling injuries to All-America guard Tim Huffman and starting guard Robb Gagnon, and its four first­time starters around Scully with one of the unexpected per­formances of a season that gets more surprising every day. 
Of course, with two-thirds of the front-line receiving corps sidelined (Tony Hunter and Dean Masztak), the air game has been partially depleted and that factor may be forcing some of the ground emphasis, however, assistant coach Brian Boulac did explain some of the reasons for the vast abundance of run­ning plays (73 against Navy). 
"A lot of questions had to be answered at the of the year about the offensive line," he remarked, "And while they've played well and con­trolled the line, with the op­ponents on our schedule, we've tried not to put our defense in a hole. We've stuck to a ball­control attack and tried not to make mistakes." 
Saturday afternoon's ball control effort on offense gave the improving Irish defense lots of vacation time on the side­lines, especially in the first half when the contest was decided. 
"Our defensive line made the plays today," said linebacker Mark Zavagnin. "When the defensive line is making the tackles, that makes our (line­backing) job a lot easier. They played a great game." 
The best of the season? "That was their best," smiled line coach Joe Yonto. 
Navy generated a grand total of four yards on offense in the first half-all coming on the ground. The Irish pass rush (Scott Zettek, John Hankerd, and Joe Gramke had seven tackles for minus yardage), es­pecially, kept the Middies from 
even  completing  a  pass  until  
2:21  remained  in  the  third  
quarter.  And  they  have  now  
gone 16 quarters without grudging a touchdown on the nd. 


Givethegiftofmusic. 
-~ -~~ ~ 

Sports cl=l=r="=·e;.J.:.=-s====~====::::::::::::::~;;===M=o=n=da=y=,N=o=v=e=m=be=r=3=,=19=8=0;;=p=ag=e~15
by The Ohsert,er and The Auodated PreJJ 
Bear Bryantsummed up Alabama's first loss to Mississippi State m 23 years by saying: "This must be a test. Maybe the Good Lord intended it that way. This loss proved we're not as good as some people think we are." 
This weekend the women of the midwest braved the chilly November waters ofLake Lansing to place third overall among six schools. This outing was the team's final regetta before the regional eliminations next Saturday at Michigan and then the Natonals over Thanksg­iving in Chicago. 
There will be a meeting this Wednesday in 203 O'Shag at 
6:30 for all people inbterested in sailing. The club is presently looking for big beat racers to sail in Annapolis this spring. Anyone with such experience should contact Greg Fisher at 277-7750 or attend the Wednesday night meeting. 
Off-camous athleteSareremindedthat the deadline for s~mitting rosters for interhall basketball and hockey is tomorrow. Those interested in hockey should sign the roster in the Non-Varsity Athletic Offic.e (C2) of t~e ACC, or call Mike Kennedy at 233-5939. Those mterested m basketball should organize their rosters and then contact Off-Campus Sports Commissioner Tom Disser at 277-8730 by today so that fees can be settled a?d rosters ~inalize.d. All athletes are reminded that proof of msurance 1s requtred. 
... leers 

[continued from page 16] goalie Dave Laurion, receiving 
McNamara. Pat Haramis made it 2-0 at 
9:05 with Notre Dame's Jeff Logan offfor holding. The Irish were 0-for-3 in power play at­tempts in the first period. 
A five minute major cross checking penalty assessed to Dave Poulin of Notre Dame carried over to the start of the second period and resulted in the third Clarkson goal. Claude Bourck intercepted a pass in front of McNamara and his wrist shot at 1 :48 made it 3-0. 
Sophomore center Rex Bellomy, Notre Dame's leading scorer with eight points in five games, scored his fourth goal of the year at 8: 36 on a power play to make it 3-1. But Colin Patterson regained the three­goal lead for the Golden Knights at 17:33 with a slapper that made the score 4-1 after two periods. 
Poulin closed the gap to 4-2 with four minutes to play when he beat goalie Don Sylvestri with a wrist shot from 20 feet. The Irish then pulled McNamara with a minute left, but it was for naught as Cruickshank finished the even­ing with an empty net goal, his second of the game, with 26 seconds to go. 
McNamara stopped 34 shots while Sylvestri made 25 saves. 
Friday night in Syracuse, a goal pushed in by Clarkson defenseman Bob Armstrong got the Irish rolling towards the win. 
Both teams were scoreless after the first 30 minutes. Irish help from the post once, stop­ped three breakaways during this time. Kirt Bjork gave the Irish a 1-0 lead at 13:47 of the second period aftera nifty setup from freshman Adam Parsons. Clarkson's Bruce McDonough evened things with a power play tally at 7:46 of the third stanza. 
The score remained 1-1 until the fluke goal at 14:56 of the final period. Irish defenseman 
John Schmidt fired a slap shot on goalie Rick Mills from the right boards which Mills ap­peared to clear out of danger. But Armstrong, standing to the right of his goalie, knocked the pu4:k down and was in turn knocked down by Notre Dame's Dick Olson. Arm­strong's momentum started the puck towards the net and it sli1 under Mills' outstretched pcrd.' 
Olson received credit for the unassisted goal and Bellomy and Kevin Humphreys closed the scoring for the Irish. Humphreys' goal was his first of the year. 
Laurion totaled 30 saves in picking up his first win of the year while Mills stopped 21 shots. 
ICE CHIPS: After tomor­row's game at Bowling Green, Notre Dame travels to Min­neapolis to take on first place Minnesota. The Gophers swept Michigan this weekend, 9-4 and 5-2, to remain the league's only undefeated team at 4-0. In other action: Wisconsin moved into second place by sweeping Colorado College. 
Hockev 
WCHA STANDINGS 

W L T GFGAPcl. Minnesota 4 0 0 27 17 1.00 Wisconsin 3 1 0 21 17 .750 North Dakota 2 2 0 24 20 .500 Notre Dame 1 1 0 10 7.500 Denver 1 1 o a a.soo Michigan Tech 1 1 o a 9.5oo Minnesota/Duluth 1 1 0 9 8.500 Colorado College 1 3 0 16 23 .250 Michigan State 0 2 0 7 13.000 Michigan 0 2 0 6 14.000 
Scores Friday Wisconsin 6, Colorado College 4 Minnesota 9, Michigan 4 North Dakota 6, Michigan Stale 3 Michigan Tech 4, Minnesota/Duluth 2 
Scores Saturday 

Wisconsin 7, Colorado College 5 Minnesota 5, Michigan 2 North Dakota 7, Michigan Slate 4 Michigan Tech 4, Minnesota/Duluth 7 
NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE Campbell Conference Patrick Division 
W l T GF GA  Pts  
Philadelphia 7 3 2 47  31  16  
Calgary 6 4 2 43  42  14  
N.Y. Islanders 4 5 3 43  49  11  
Washington 3 4 4 36  33  10  
N.Y. Rangers 3 8 1 41  57  7  
Smythe Division  
St. Louis 6 3 3 41  45  15  
Chicago 6 4 2 48  46  14  
Vancouver 6 3 2 47  35  1.  
Colorado 5 4 2 41  42  12  
Edmonton 2 4 4 32  36  8  
Winnipeg 1 6 2 36  47  4  
·Wales Conference  
Norris Division  
Los Angeles 8 1 1 52  29  17  
HarHord 5 4 3 43  50  13  
Montreal 4 6 1 45  37  9  
PIHsburgh 4 6 1 45  54  9  
Detroit 2 8 1 36  50  5  
Adams Division  
Minnesota 6 1 2 39  26  14  
Buffalo 6 2 2 36  24  14  
Toronto 6 4 1 53  49  13  
Quebec 1 6 4 37  52  6  
Boston 2 7 1 27  34  5  
saturday's Games  
Buffalo 4, Detroit 2  
Vancouver 4, Hartford 4, lie  
Philadelphia 3, Quebec 3, lie  
Washington 2, Edmonton 2, lie  

Montreal 7, New York Rangers 4 Los Angeles 7, New York Islanders 3 Colorado 5, Toronto 4 Minnesota 6, PIHsburgh 3 Calgary 3, St.Louis 2 Yesterday's Games Calgary 3, St. Louis 2 
Yesterday's Games 

Vancouver at Buffalo Boston at Philadelphia Los Angeles at New York Rangers Colorado at Quebec St.Louis at Chicago Calgary at Minnesota Washington at Winnipeg 
Today's Game 

Pittsburgh at Edmonton 
Basketball 
NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION Eastern Conference Atlantic Division 
w l Pet. GB 

Philadelphia 9 2 .818 New York 7 2 .778 1 Boston 6 4 .600 2'12 New Jersey 5 8 .385 5 Washington 2 9 .182 7 
Central Division 
Milwaukee 10 2 .833 Indiana a 3 .727 Atlanta 5 6 .•55 Chicago 4 7 .364 Cleveland 4 a .333 Detrail 1 10 .091 


Western Conference Midwest Division 
san Antonio 10 3 .769 Utah 7 5 .5a3 2'1.1 Houston 4 5 .444 4 Kansas City 5 a .385 5 Denver 3 7 .300 5'1.1 Dallas 2 10 .167 7'1.1 
Pacific Division 
P.hoenlx 10 1 .909 Los Angeles 9 2 .818 Golden State 7 5 .5a3 3'1.1 Sea Hie 5 8 .3a5 6 Portland 3 7 .300 6'1.1 san Diego 3 7 .300 6'1.1 
saturday's Games 
Milwaukee 99, Atlanta 93 Indiana 113, New Jersey 100· 
New York 111, Washington 93 
Philadelphia 117, Boston 1f3, OT 
Phoenix 127, Kansas City 100 Chicago 122, Detroll100 
Denver 123, Seattle 118 
Utah 95, Portland a7 Golden State 123, San Antonio 108 
Yesterday's Games 
Indiana at Milwaukee Denver at Los Angeles Cleveland at Portland 
Today'aGame 
Cleveland at Seattle 
Football 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE American Conference East 
w l T Pel PF PA New England , 7 2 0 .778 254 1a3 BuHalo 6 3 0 .667 193 151 Baltimore 5 4 0 .556 194 183 Miami 4 5 0 .444 123 177 I\I.V. Jets 2 7 0 .222 152 212 
Central 
Houston 6 3 0 .667 157 144 
Cleveland 5 3 0 .625 174 159 PIHsburgh 5 4 0 .556 23a 193 Cincinnati 3 6 0 .333 125 159 
West 
Oakland 6 3 0 .667 231 202 san Diego 6 3 0 .667 272 184 Denver 4 5 0 .444 160 185 Kansas City 4 5 0 .444 169 190 Sea Hie 4 5 0 .444 165 198 
National Conference East 
Philadelphia 8 1 0 .8a9 234 114 Dallas 7 2 0 .778 255 157 St. Louis 3 6 0 .333 181 187 Washington 3 6 0 .333 137 173 
N.Y. Giants 1 a 0 .111 120 264 
Central 
Detroit 6 3 0 .667 210 154 Tampa Bay 4 4 1 .500 153 176 Minnesota 4 5 0 .444 144 180 Green Bay 3 5 1 . 389 132 188 Chicago 3 5 0 .375 113 124 
West 
Atlanta 6 3 0 .667 231 162 Los Angeles 6 3 0 .667 263 179 san Francisco 3 6 0 .333 197 270 New Orleans 0 9 0 .000 147 276 
Yesterday's Games 
Atlanta 30, Buffalo 14 Baltimore 31, Kansas City 24 Pittsburgh 22, Green Bay 20 
Tampa Bay 30, N.Y. Giants 13 san Diego 31, Clnclnnall14 Oetroll17, san Francisco 13 Dallas 27, St. Louis U Houston 20, Denver·16 Ookland 16, Miami 10 Minnesota 39, Washington 14 Los Angeles 45, N-Orleans 31 N-England 3-', N.Y. Jets 21 Philadelphia 27, SeaHie 20 
Today's Game 
Chicago at Cleveland 
• • . Irish 
(continued from page 16] 
Stone finished the first quar­ter with 14 7 yards on 15 carries and the Irish on the move again. The drive, aided by a tipped pass completion -Kiel to Pete Holohan to Mike Boushka­
Stone went around left end fora 13-yard TD run 2:20 into the second period. Holder Dave Condeni hit tightend Nick Vehr for two points on the fake con­version attempt and a20-0 lead. 
"They (Navy) really weren't that bad," said Irish middle linebacker BobCrable. "They made a few mistakes at the be­ginning of the game and we(the defense) weren't on the field that much. We stayed fresh." 
Fresh enough to limit the Middies to four yards total of­fense in thefirst half and 130 yards all afternoon -the best Notre Dame effort of the sea­son. And much fresher than an overwhelmed Navy defense which was decimated by injuries to five starters, including three down linemen. Of the five in­juries, three will require knee surgery. 
"The injuries affected us," 
. said Middie coach Welsh. "But a lot of other things affected us today, like Notre Dame. They are by far the best team we've played this year-the strong­est and the biggest." Devine went as far as saying, "We played our best game of the year today." The No. 1 honor being a probability now, Jim Stone was quick to point out nothing will be taken for granted. "I think this was our best game," he said, "But we still had some break­downs and we've still got toget better. We've got to go out this week and not do what they (Alabama)did." One step at a time with all eyes on Georgia Tech will be all right with Devine. GRID BITS-Harry Oliver hit on second quarter field goalsof 41 and 50 yards, his 14th and 15th ofthe season, to break ChuckMale's record of 13 in '' year ... freshman tailback Gre~ Bell completed a fourth quarte1 drive engineered by Kiel re placement Mike Courey by go ing 27 yards around left end fo his first-ever Irish touchdown. 

Classifieds 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST; Tl·58 calculator Before break nfound PLEASE Call 4' 1876 

LOST light Brown english style cap. Great sentimental value. It found, please call 3527. 
FOUND: ONE SMALL GRAY PUPPY NEAl! LAFORTUNE. CALL 1500 BETWEEN 9 AND 10 P.M. 
FOR SALE 

Soundeslgn Stereo System.&·track a Receiver, Turntable. 4 speakers $200 Call Tony @ 
KENWOOD KD~3070 TURNTABLE 
WITH  AJ.13EA  CAI!TI!IDGE.  RETAIL  
$300.  YOURS  FOR  $140.  ALSO  
HONDO  ELECTRIC  GUITAR.  RETAIL  

$230. YOURS FOil $100 01! BEST OFFER. CALLI!ICK I 1205 
35mm CAMERA SYSTEM FOil SALEI Pentax Spotmollc II with 1.4 50mm lens. 28mm wide angle lens, 85-205 zoom lens, 2x teleconverter, auto strobon flash system. Haliburton zero case, plus many extras. Mint Condlllonl Call Kevin Fete, 7736. 
L..-_F_O_R_R_E__NT_ __.I 
FOR RENT: Ugly Duckling Rent-A­Car. Priced lrom $7.95 a day and seven cents a mile. Phone 255-2323 lor reservations. 
Country house lbr rent ten minutes to campus 277·3604 288·0955 
lour bedroom house lor rent close to campus Immediate occupancy call 287-5361 
Jim Mole. He's selling out, too. 

L-f__W_~_N_T_E_D__~I IL-_P_E_R_S_O_N_A_L_s_..I :::'~~:~::.~.~~0~~~~~~~~;-;'~~ 
Bahamas Clue Gang announces

Gibby, Will swap lwo USC lor lwo Bama 
the opening ot 4 new Clue Mat

You ARE Wonderful! tlx. Call 1295. 
lacallons at 219 Lyons, 101 Lyons,Happy Blrthdayt 

342 Lyons, and 237 B-P. This week's _ ~-~-~-_~ Love, Mo specials Include the "Coo~out Blo..." Clue, the "Hey tall boy,
NAVAL OFFICERS -The Naval wanna buy some coke?" Clue, and
Reserve Is looking lor ensigns thru Lt. Commanders lor aHIIIotlon wllh the "Who will be""7"Clue. All clues 
the reserve program. Pay billets are 

Trish, gradus por las clam deesponoly are on sale lor $2.50, but lor you, 2 
su amor~ lor $5. All clues can be used sevencurrently available. For Information 
Yo '' quiero. different ways. "Sing a song tor a -----------clue" specials areavallableontyat contact Cdr. Peter l!umety, 
272-9053. our 237 1-P ounet. 
r 
Monday, November 3, 1980-page 16
SROrts 
Hey, we're No. 1! 
EAST RUTHERFORD, NJ-It started as a joke to break the monotony of a 90-minute flight from Newark to South Bend. 
"Hey, did you hear UCLA lost?" Mike Boushka told Pete Buchanan through a grin he tried hard to conceal. But Buchanan didn't buy it and neither did Nick Vehr,JeffLeuken or any of the others Boushka tried to fool. They had already been surprised by Alabama's roll-over­and-play-dead performance against Mississippi State. A Bruin loss would mean-ah, why think about it. Boushka was just joking anyway. 
Five minutes later as they walked offthe plane, the Notre Dame players and coaches found out that Boushka's joke was no joke at all. Then everyone started laughing -for real. 
The small, well-intentioned crowd waiting at the circle did little to dampen the growing enthusiasm that stemmed from the knowledge that they were all of a sudden members of the number one football team in the land. 
"Hey, we're number one!" they pinched each other as talk quickly turned from exhaustionand injuries to celebration ofthis unexpected turn of events. And why not? After all, it isn't everyday you can tell your mother her son plays for the No. 1 college football team in all of Christen­dom. It's a feeling most people can't relate to because you have to actually be a part of it-a player or coach-to know what it means to be No. 1. 
And just what does it mean? 
Well, you get a lot more attention, publicity and hate mail for one thing. Of course, a good argument would be how much more of any of those things could Notre Dame possibly re­ceive? But look at it this way: the interest in the Fighting Irish football team reached incredible levels when they were 7-4. 
Just imagine what it will be like now that they're the top-ranked team in the land. 
And just what does all of that mean? 
Pressure. 
The questions: 

"How do you like being No. 1?" 
"Do you think you deserve it?" 
"Can you keep it going?" 
Pressure. 
The concentration: 

"Hey man, we're the No. 1 team in the country!" 
"Hey man, maybe they'll put us on the cover ofSports Illustrated." 
"Hey man, we_ can beat anybody!" 
Pressure. 
The challenge: 

"They'reNotreDame. They'reNo.1. We'regonnado our damndest to kick their ass." 
Ah... the paradox that has plagued college football coaches for years. Being No. 1 is what you plan for, recruit for, work for. .. it's what you 
•l"ll vour players they can achieve if they are 
33-0 

Frank laGrotta 
dedicated; ifthey give their best; ifthey get a few 
breaks. 
So when they finally get there, why all the :Stony glances from the same coaches who now are swearing they'd rather not be there-or, at least not until January 2. They must know something the rest of us don't. 
This young Notre Dame team, that starts more freshmen and sophomores than juniors and seniors, is getting the crash course on pressure. But the lessons are sketchy. A coach can teach a player how to block and tackle, how to run and pass, even how to talk to reporters. But he can't stick his players in a solitary cell block to insulate them from fans, students, parents who want to know, "How you feelin'? How's the team lookin'? The hell with Georgia Tech! Can we beat Alabama?" 
"We're playing Georgia Tech next week," Dan Devine reminded his team after the Navy ·game. "We don't talk about, think about, plan for or worry about any team but Georgia Tech." 
Good advice-if it's taken. 
"Twenty years ago I coached a Missouri team that beat Oklahoma and was ranked number one," Devine remembers. "Then, the next week, we lost to a good Kansas team and lost the No. 1 rating." 
And while we're playing "Remember when?" one can only shudder when one recalls the last time the Irish played Georgia Tech with visions of Bear Bryant growling in their heads. In 1976, Notre Dame traveled to Atlanta the week before the Alabama game. Tech solidly defeated the Irish and they didn't even have to attempt a forward pass to do it. 
If the Irish go back to Atlanta on Saturday waving their press clippings and wagging those index fingers, the same thing could happen again. 
"But we're not going to let that happen," promises Devine. "This team has been through too much adversity to let down now. Look at the schedule they've played. Look at the injuries they've had to put up with. They've worked hard and they deserve this honor. 
"But they're not going to let it get in their way." 
So, here come the Irish with a No. 1 ranking they probably deserve more than any other team in the nation. But they could have easily done without it. 
At least for now. 
Irish sink Midshipmen 
by Gary Grassey Sports Writer 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -The third-ranked Notre Dame football team, looking much likea presidential candi­
late on the stump, ventured to ·he nation's media center this, veekend, courting brownie JOints fromthe New York (sic. \few Jersey) pressin its ongoing Jid for national acclaim. 
What the Irish brought nome, however unexpectedly, .dong with their impressive 33­'lstomping of rapidly deteriora­
ing Navy, should be the No. l ranking in the country come tomorrow morning's weekly straw vote. 
By process of elimination­
top-rated Alabama's shocking 6-3 lossto Mississippi St. and No. 2 UCLA's 23-17 fall to Arizona -the Irish should in­herit the exhalted ranking atop the polls that has eludedthem since the 1977 national cham­pionship season. 
"I suppose I'd rather be first than 20th," maintained Notre Dame head coach Dan Devine. 
As surpnsmg as Notre Dame's sudden leap to the No. 1 spot, was the lack of punch from George Welsh's 5-3 Mid­shipmen. Among the capacity crowd of 76,891 in attendance at Giants Stadium were repre­sentativesof the Garden State Bowl committee hoping to see Navy display some ofthe talent seen in their 24-10 upset of Washington the previous week. 
But it took just one brieffirst quarter span to put the Mid­diesto rout. 
After Navy's Lex Lauletta 
uncorked a 69-yard punt that pinned the lrishinside their own ten, Jim Stone, on his way to a 211-yard day, set upNotre Dame's first score. The senior tailback, whose fourth consec­utivelOO-yard-plus perform­ance established an Irish re­cord, took a third-and-one handoff through the Middies' right side and raced 73 yards to the Navy nine before he was caught by defender Jon Ross. 
"It was a short yardage sit­uation and everybody (on the Navy defense}pinched down," described Stone. "I just beat them to the outside." 
Ty Barber covered the final nine yards on the next snap from scrimmagegiving the Irish a 6-0 lead with 5: 3 7 left in the quarter. Harry Oliver'sextra point attempt was blocked. 
On Navy's first play after the kickoff, Middietailback Eddie Meyers coughed up the footall into Notre Dame tackle Tim Marshall's waiting arms with 5:16 remaining. 
Six plays and 21 yards later, the Irish had their second score on a three-yard run over left tackle by Pete Buchanan. Kiel's pass for the two-point conver­sion fell incomplete. 
(contmued on page 15) Jim Stone (42) rushed for 211 yards on 33 carries versus the Midshipmen of Navy.(photo by Phillip johnson) 
leers split with Oarkson 
by Brian Beglane Sports Writer 
ROCHESTER, N.Y. -The Notre Dame hockey team-a club which scored five power play goals a week ago at Color-, ado College -succumbed to the power play Saturday night against Clarkson College. 
The Golden Knights grabbed a 3-0 lead on power play goals and went on to a 5-2 victory over the Irish here at the Rochester War Memorial. Notre Dame took a 4-1 decision in the non-league series opener at the Onondaga County War Memorial in Syracuse Friday night. 
The split gives the Irish a 2-3 overall record heading into tomorrow's match at Bowling Green. Notre Dame is tied for fourth in the Western Colleg­iate Hockey Association with a 1-1 mark. 
Clarkson, a member of the Eastern Collegiate Athletic Conference, picked up its first win in three games. 
"Friday night it was encour­aging to see us give up only one goal," said Irish coach Lefty Smith. "Saturday, we got away from our hitting game and be­came too tentative on offense. And penalties hurt us as well." 
Clarkson's Steve Cruick­shank opened the scoring Sat­urday with a power play tally just four seconds after Rex Bellomy entered the penalty box for holding at 1:28. Mike Prestidge fed Cruickshank off a faceoff to the right of Irish goalie Bob McNamara and Cruickshank skated between two defenders to beat 
(continued on page 15) 


-Scott Zettek, who was accredited with eight tackles including three sacks for a total of 21 yards lost. Hon­orable Mention-Tim Marshall, Mark Zavagnin and John Hankerd. 
-Jim Stone, who set a Notre Dame record by rush­ing over 100 yards in four straight games. Stone ran 33 times for a total of 211 net yards. Honorable Mention­The offensive line. 




