Ode to a Father -page 6
' '
' 

VOL.XIV,NO. 82 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1980
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Judicial Board hands down disciplinary sanctions 
by Mary Leavitt StaffReporter 
. Students involved in violating the party regulations in the second main and third annex sections of LeMans Hall received disciplinary letters for their behavior from the Saint Mary's Judicial Board, The Observer learned last night. These sanctions were handed down ro the involved students last Thursday evening. 
The disciplinary letters will be and filed. senr to the parents of all the LasL year. regulation violators g1rls mvolved and be kept on in Regi11, Hall were fined $10 fi_le for a certa_in period oftime. and had di"L iplinary letters sent It any of the mvolved restdents w them and their parents. The should violate another of the hall directors of the various Saint Mary's regulations whi_le resident halls on Saint Mary's the letter ts still on file, she ~J!l C""lliHIS decided upon the b<: considered for soctal Regina sanction. probation. S1udents have the right to 
accept ot reject sanctions im­pos<:d on them by the hall The disciplinary letters director. If a student rejerrs the sanction1• she is immediately reffered to_ the Judicial Board
will be sent to the 
where the case will be reviewed and appropriate acuon Im­
parent.s of all the girls plemented. 
involved and be kept t"here is no set procedure used to try a student when a violation is brought before the
on file for a certain 
.Judicial Board, according to Martha Boyle, judicial comis­
period of time. sioner. It is ·'all related to the situation and circumstances in­volved," Boyle said. 
When violations of college 
In certain cases in the past, regulations occur within the VIolations of the party reg­hall, it is left to the "hall ular ions have been handled direoor's discretion" as to d1tf<:r<:ntly. whether the matter will be 
McCandles~ Hall residents s<:l cled within the hall or who violated party regulations whether it. will be brought earlier this year met with the b<.:-fore the Judicial Board, hall director, Mary Jane Silvia, Boyle said. Sister Karol and were fined $10 apiece. In ]ackowski is the director of addition, a report was filled out "L<:Mans Hall. 

The Pointless Sisters, Deborah Childs, ]oli Cooper, Marguerite Hazlewood, and Karen Noakes, dance at the Black Cultural Camission Talent Show. [photo by Phzljohnson ) 
In FBI trial 
louisiana state officials to testify 


Moslem rebels recapture towns 
KARACHI, Pakistan (AP) -Moslem rebels recaptured rwo towns in Badakhshan province in northeast Afghanistan yesterday and laid siege to the capital city of Faizabad in bitter fighting with Soviet troops, a Pakistani newspaper reported. 
The daily newspaper Jang said the rebels seized the towns of Tashkan Arbo and Bagh in the Kashma district of Badakh­shan, and that fighting con­tinued in nearby Zebak. It said they seized arms, ammunition and food from the fleeing Soviet troops. 
In Moscow. the Communist Party newspaper Pravda charg­ed that the United States -with the backing of Pakistan and 
China  -is striving  to  step  up  
offensive  operations  by  the  
Afghan guerrillas.  

The Soviet news media made no direct mention of Western reports that in coming weeks Moscow may withdraw some of the estimated 90,000 Russian troops now in Afghanistan. 
U.S. officials have said they expect the Soviets will make only a "cosmetic" withdrawal in an attempt to defuse West­ern opposition to the interven­
tivn. 

A Pravda commentary re­peated the Kremlin's previous­ly stated posiuon that if outside "interference" in Afghanistan ceases, ·'the limited Soviet military co~.tingent . . . will re­turn home. 
But Pravda indicated that Moscow does not foresee any significant reduction in rebel fighting against the Marxist government in Kabul. ··Facts go to show that tho~e in Washington do not want to part with their designs," Pravda said. 
"Zbigniew Brzezinski's trip to Pakistan, his talks with Pakistani authorities and back­stage collusion with Peking -all this clearly shows that they intend, despite everything, to broaden their thrust into Af­ghanistan,'' wrote commenta­tor Yuri Zhukov. 
There was no immediate comment from Washington. 
Brzezinski, President Car­ter's top national security ad­visor, visited Pakistan recently 
(AP)-The governor ofLouisi­ana and 12 other state officials have been summoned to appear before a federal grand jury in connection with the FBI's un­dercover investigation of bribe­ry and insurance kickbacks in four states, a Baton Rouge newspaper reported yesterday. 
to discuss increased U.S. mili­tary and economic aid and to inspect the Pakistani-Afghan frontier, where thousands of Afghan refugees have fled since the rebel fighting began 31 months ago against a suc­cession of pro-Moscow govern­ments. 
The Pravda commentary ad­
[continued on page 2] 

The year-long FBI operation, code-named "Brilab" for_bribe­ry-labor, also reportedly has led to suburban New Orleans rack­ets figure Carlos Marcello, labor leaders and politicians in Texas, Oklahoma and Arkan­sas. 
At least rwo legislative bid­ers in Texas and Oklahoma admitted over the weekend they accepted large sums of money following meetings to discuss state insurance contracts, but said they had no intention of keeping the money. 
The "Brilab" operation was similar to the FBI's Abscam investigation in which agents posing as wealthy Arabs alleg­edly slipped bribes to right congressmen. 
In Abscam developments yesterday, Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd said that news leaks about it were '·rep­rehensible" and that the U.S. Senator, seven U.S. Repre-
As new chief 
Observer selects Mullaney 
Paul Mullaney was elected Editor in Chief of The Observer Friday by a majority vote of the editorial board and representatives from the business and production departments. 
Mullaney, a junior from Highland, Indiana, will assume editorial responsibility on April 8. An American Studies major, Mullaney has served as assistant sports editor for the past rwo years. He has also workt;d in the news and production departments. 
As editor in chief, Mullaney hopes to improve the look and content of the paper. ·'I'd like to continue the advances that have taken place over the past several years in the editorial and production areas," Mullaney stated. He added that The Observer is a student newspaper and its primary responsibility is to serve the students. · 
Mullaney defeated two other candidates for the position. 
sentatives and several lower­level politicians involved should be presumed innocent until proven guilty. 
No formal charges have been lodged. 
Senate Republican Leader Howard Baker said Congress will lose its credibility with the public unless there are quick mvestigations and results. 
The Baton Rouge Sunday Advocate, in a copyright story, said 13 Louisiana officials were subpoenaed to appear this week before a grand jury in New Orleans that convenes Tuesday. 
FBI agents reportedly made payoffs to obtain public employ­ee insurance contracts for Pru­dential Insurance Co., which cooperated in the probe, agents were quoted as saying. 
However, the company's chairman and president said they had no knowledge of any 
kontinued on pu.ge 3] 



News in brief  Monday, February 11, 1980 ­page 2  
Anti-draft demonstrators sing 60 's protest tune (AP) Anti-draft demonstrarors in Lawrence, Kan., sub­stituted "Afghanistan" for "Vietnam" in an old war protest song called. ''I Feel Like I'm Fixing to Die Rag." About 2. )00 chanting and singing protesters marc~ed on President C.trrer's campaign headquarters in Manhattan. A rock smashed one window and three men were arrested, two for burning a Caner poster and a small Amerium flag. Thus ec hm·s of the 1960's reverberated in the nat!on's heartland and big cirie·. over the weekend in reaction to Carter's call to registc:-r roung men and wnmen ages 19 and 20 for the draft. Ali returns to America, says 'no place like home ' WASHINGT0:--.1 (AP) ·Saying "There's no place like home, e"pn ially when home is Amenca," retired heavyweight b.•xmg champion Muhammad Ali returned to the United Srare~ Sunda\· from a five-nation tour of Africa. On his n·wm to .-\ndrews Air Force Base outside Washington, Ali t· old repurrers he considered his diplomatic venture "75 pvr, t'tll successful.'' Soviet athletes land at Kennedy Airport :-\E\V YORK (AP)-An ,\eroflot flight carrying Soviet Okmpic athletes landed at Kennedy Airport yesterdav de~pite an agreement nor 10 use the airpc.rr without p>oviding f.,r the handling of baggage and pas~:=nJ ::rs, an airport spukesman said. The Sovi.:r flight la.1ded at 3:1.3 p.m. and w<.~s urdered ro taxi to a remote secu:·itj area, said Ed hanzeui. a spokesman for the Port Authority, operators of rhe airport. Weather ..\fostly ~loudy t~day and ro_night with a slight chance of a tc:w flume!>. H1ghs today 10 the low to mid 20s. Lows ro~ight 10 ro 15. Pardy cloudy tomorrow with highs in the m1d 20s.  Call sets 1980 election rules, dates than one petition, but only for 'fo win an election a ticket by }ana Schutt · their own class. must receive one vote more There is a $50.00 limit on than 50 percent. Balloting will !~ules and deadliP.e dares for campaign t xpenses. The only be held from 11:30 a.m. to 1 the I<JHO Class Elections have donat i11il all<wed ro a ticket is p.m. and from 5 to 6· ~0 p.m. in been released by Tom Call, IK·ople· s labor, All other the residence halls. Offcampus chairman of the Elections d<mati,,ns '.viii be assessed residents may vote from 11 C.11nmiuee. and Jeff Hawk, t11ward the candidates' $50.00 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the LaFortune din·nor of Ombucfsman. The budget. Campaigning begins Lobby. sopht~more, junior and senior at 12:01 a.m. CJn Wednesday If a runoff is necessary, it will cl.t~se~ fi1r 1')80;81 will elect March ') and continues through bl' t:onducted Weo., March 12, their leaders on Monday,March Sunday March 9 at midnight. with idenrical ballotting hours. 10. Pn:.~ident. Yice-presJdent, st·t-reJary,and tre:;:surer run as a I IL kct. . l11 be (lig:ble for the ballot, intncstec ti1ursomes must sub­Buymrr a plarf;mn to ,h{' Student Attlvirre-. OITce. This state­llll'tll ,f plans is due by 5 p.m. Fndav, Fl'h. 22. ObserverOn. Feb. 28, at 10 p.m., a nHTJing will be held in the ')r uden• llovnnrnent Offices for .til tickeh which have entered a Classifiedsplatform. At th;s time petitions wdl lw distributed. A ticket nl'ed~ 100 srgnarures to have rIter r name~ appear on the hall or. Students may sign more Wyqant PoRat co. Inc Flowers Gifts... Moslem 327 Lincoln Way West South Bend, Ind. 46601 [<untinued from page 1] ded: "It is not for;ultous that 232-3354 now they are talking loudly in Washington about bringing to­WIRE SERVICEgether the (rebel) gangs smug­~led into Afghanistan and turn­tng them into some sort of ,..,-·­army." Zhukov said rhe United 0£ENJ<6Bm@1 States has been exerting pres­sure with "unceremonious Ql)jim1f£rudeness" on its North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies in an attempt to gain support for ~lllHN't; countermeasures agamst Mos­cow. <ltAHfl£"As for the Soviet Union, it retains its usual self-control, watching the development of A professional Hair Cutting Salon, just for events and leaving open the you, at a price that is affordable.door to a return of common sense" in U.S. policy, he wrote. A complete Hair Cut, Blow Style and Condition.$9.00f--The Observer_ Ntght Editor: Beth "I'm ifyou have a WRBR MoneyCard weBack" Huffman Asst. Night Editors: Deirdre will give you another $1.00 off Murphy, Teri Michielutti CuPJ' Editor: Lynn Daley tues-wed 8:30-6:00Layout Staff Jean Steinbrenner thurs-fri 8:30-8:30 Nt'ws Editor: Margie Brassil CAll277-1691 sat 8:30-5:00Editorial Layout: Greg  
CamP-_u_s-----'j  
12:10 pm TEACHING/LEARNING SEMINAR, "evalua­tion of college teaching from an administrator's point of view," prof. edward jerger, nd. (brown bag) 242 O'SHAG sponsored by educational media. 12:15 pm DEVELOPMENT WORKSHOP "military messiahs & the political economy of the body: the case of chile," dr. michael francis, nd. LIBRARY LOUNGE. sponsored by dept. of economics. UO pm COMPUTER MINI-COURSE*intro to fortran programming. 115 ccmb. sponsored by computing ctr. ~: 30 pm LECTURE • "sources of the industrial revolution," prof. gordon tullock, virginia polytechnic institute. 122 HAYES_ HEALY. sponsored by dept. of finance & business eronomrcs.  
1:00 pm LECTURE'"is economic justice possible?" Dr. Denis youlet. NO. GALVIN AUD. sponsored by dept. 'T!HIOmiCS. 1: I) pm LECTURI:-., "the impact of diagenesis on npl.,rar '"n s rategy & reservoir management," dr. william r <.~lnwn. ame-rican assor, of petroleum geologists. 101 I·.. \ I{ IH SCIENCE BLDG. sponsored by dept. of earth  I ledges F,·,;tures Layout: Chris Stewart S('urts Layout: Paul r-.tullaney Junior Parents'I)fll~l·t.l: Paula Shea, Bill Swift. Swop Sullivan, Paula Jt'<lfl, Deirdre Murphy Weekend·E\.1T-Mike Galvin  
,, It'Ill('". •-12 pm MARDI GRAS, STEPAN CENTER. e~te~tainment lightly. wnrinues feb. 12 thru feb. 16th. admtss1on $1.50. rdO pm MEETING, nd ski club, LAFORTUNE LITTLE IHEATRE. r,:·l5 pm ROSARY, daily at GROTTO. 7:30pm FILM SERIES, "the third man," WASHINGTON HALL sponsored by dept. of sp/dr. admission $1. 8:00pm PERSPECTIVE LECTURE SERIES, "thoughts," prof. robert sralnaker, cornell u. GALVIN AUD. sponsored by dept of philosophy. 8:00 pm BASKETBALL, nd men vs san francisco, ACC metro tv. 10:00 pm MEETING, bailly downwind alliance meeting. BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE.  Proofreader: Rick Freedman Reservations for seating arrangements for ND Day Editor: Robert David BnniJskie the President's Dinner may be made at .'l.d design: Anne Fink, David LaFortune in front of student activities officeWood P!lrJtog rap her: Phil Johnson during the following times: Guest Appearances: Poor Pat'l is Sick! I rvtichael Tuesday Feb. 12 11am-2pmOrr man, \1ik<· Bigley -----­The Obsernr !USPS 5!JI 920J Is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and viCition periods. Wednesday Feb. 13 11am-2pm The Observer is publlshld by tile students of Notre 011111 and Saint Mary's College. Sublcriptillll may be purchalld lor $20 per year 1$11 per Thursday Feb. 14 11am-2pmstllllltlrjlrom The Observer. P.O. box a. Notn Dame, lndi1111 46556. Slcond class ~,,. p1id, Notn 011111, ln-Tables seat nine (9) people~ If no reservations are diJIII . made then you will be placed randomly at a table.The Observer Is a lllllllilr crt tile Associated PI'ISS. All lepiedlc:IIH Questions · call Jim Veraldi 8895 ..~ 


-~~~."-.·g~~~-~~re~,~resene~-~---~-.~-,~~-~,~~-~~~ .•iju~.~ ..~.;_~.~-~-~.~-~-~~~~~~==-~-~~~-~-·~-~:=.~-=..~:·~-~~~~ 
.!.J_-. •iY'J(~r;;_\J': '.:11',,;1_ ..... ,.. J ,J.I , ~·-1 '}'N. 1~:ii I. •...•. ,: ff~.in') •1 ·• 

The Observer Monday, February 11 , 1980 -page 3 
Down $600 Booth revenues slump from last year's totals 
by Stephen Sharp  (SMC) booth. lust l<l the tune of  
St.tOReporter  $12 Fnday night.  
Fridav·,; entertainment fea­ 
The Mardi Gras b,>Uths have  tu rt'd .. i)ages," a hard rock and  
takt·n in $(,()() less during their  r,,JI b.111d who had l<l be toned  
fir,;t weekend of operation than  d.l)Wil onasiunall~· by Andy  
during a ,;imilar period last  P:t\·dko. Mardi Gras enter­ 
\'t'ar. acwrding to Mardt Gras  !a Jllmt·nt cummissioner. '·Man­ 
Ch;mman B,,b Morin. Mortn  hattan ProjtTt," a soft rock  
blamed Saturday night's North  hand k.tturing _John Lawrence,  
CarPlina State g;,mc for the  a /;dun Hall junior, performed  
,;ctbalk  Saturd;l\ ntght.  
.. !"he bont hs lost 1hree full  ··1 wa,., pleased with the  
lwur,., to dw basketball game,  groups Wt' had this weekend.  
whid1 equal,., ruughly a $1000  espnially Manhattan Pmjecr,''  
}p,;,.,. :\. ft n 1he game, however,  Pan·lko s;ud. "I think you'll·  
thing,; really picked up. I hope  St't' somt" good entt·rtainment  
t'\"t'l"dhllh· cnrnes over agam  tltr<~uglu>ut the week."  
aftt·t: wt· j)lay San Francisco on  Studt"nt at ts wdl be fi:;tlutt'd  
f\londay. · ·  f\\,,nday through Wednesdav.  
The gambling booths bring in  and the Student Union wdl  
appr,,ximatcly 60 pern·nt of  "P"ll"t·r a Sl rt·\v-\'l'Ur-room­ 
Mardi (rr;is' revenues each  rnate dann· with mu-;il· h\' tlw  
\car. wllh the car raffle picking  )()·,.,hand "jadt·," on Thurs­ 
up tilt· ot hn 40 percent.  tla). Valt·Jllll.lt··,., Day.  
The Dillon-Badin booth,  Dt·,.,pllt· the early loss at the  
··1 h>llyw,Hld, · · tll/)ped all others  b•llllil:--., Chairman Murin is  
w11 h a cllrnhinet Friday-Satur­ plLt,.,nl wJtll Mardi (rras so far  
d;t\' t;tkl' ,,f ll1llrt' than $IL\O.  "I 1hi nk 1hne is a lo1 better  
S"i·in-l{cgina's cnvcrl'd wagon,  org;Jnll.atH>ll wllhin the halls  
ITJHT~·ent ing St. Louis, brought  tl1i,., )T<ll, tlwref;,IT they could  
111 tht· IH"Xl highest total of  spt·JJd more attt·ntron to finer  
almost $1000. Disco died,  llllldJe,., on tile booths," Morin  
hllwcver, when "Studio )4,"  ..,~11d. ":\II the planning last  
the Morrissey-Holy Cross  'il'llll',.,lt'l paid off''  


Purdue emerges as victor 
by Toni Aanstoos to them(Purdue)in the practice I ish, history, government, and games at St. Louis...They're a 
business were asked. tough team.·' Other team mem­
In the regional College BQ.WI Expressing his overall feel­competition held at Saint ings for the games, ND player
bers are Paul Weithman, Will­iam Hochul, Ed· Bylina, and
Mary's College last Friday and Bylina commented that he Saturday, Purdue emerged as alternate Thomas Seasley. The would havl' liked to have gone the winner with Earlham plac­coach is Pete Lombardo, assist­further, "but I am happy with 
ing second. In the double ant archivist. our performance. We achieved 
The eleven teams involved in
elimination tournament SMC our goal of reaching the Nation­
the competition were Franklin 
als.'' He added that it was a
was defeated in their first 
College, Indiana State Univer­
rounds while Notre Dame lost "disappointment to be elim­
siry, Purdue University, SMC,
their third and fourth 'rounds. inatl'd by SIU-C because they
SIU-C, Southern Illinois Univer­
The SMC team, consisting of were our rivals at last year's
sity-Edwardsville, NO, Valpa­
National Bowl in Miami."
Capt. Patti Field, Cathy Loftus, 
raiso University, University of 
Amy O'Dowd, Regina assist­Cathy Cowhey, Louise Enyedy, 

Illinois, Earlham College, and
and alternate Vicki LaMar with ant hall director, acted as the 
Millikan College.

history profes.sor Anthony Campus College Bowl Coordin­
The SMC captair, noted that
Black as coach, lost (40-360) to ator. She did all the publicity
the lut k of the draw for who
Purdue in the first round. They and organization for the event. 
plays whom was a major factor
played Earlham with a more She was pleased with how well 
in the games. _Also, "it's a
impressive but unsuccessful everything pru~.:eeded.Her opin­
question of who is quicker on
showing, 135 to 195. This ion of what made the games so 
the buzzer·'

second defeat put the SMC exciting this year was "the
The questions categories, too,
team out of the competition. many,~urnovers from the under­
influence the teams outcome.
Enyedy commented, "Consid­dogs.
Random questioning from cate­
ering we went against the two ]mntlnued on page 4]
gories of sports, science, Eng-
best teams. I think we did very 
well."  
ND beat .'vtillikan  225-135 in  
the first game, then defeated Southern Illinois University­ • • • Louisiana  
Carbondale to  move  on  to  the  
battle with Purdue. One onlook­ 
er  described  it  as  "a see-saw  
game  where  you  get  sweaty  ]contznued from page I)  Gov. -eleu  Bobby Freeman,  
palms just watching.'' The final  state  Treasurer  Mary  Evelyn  
score was 195-220. This loss put  cooperation and were surprised  Parker,  state  Sen.  Edgar  
ND  against  SIU-C  again.  But  when  they  learned  that  the  Mouton ofLafayette, state Rep.  
ND  could  .not  triumph  over  company's name had been used  . Harry Hollins of Lake Charles,  
them a second time, and their  by the FBI.  _  and  seven  persons  associated  
190-295 defeat terminated any  ''The first I heard of it  was  with  the  State  Employees  
further competition in regional  this morning," board chairman  Group Benefits Program.  
games for NO.  Robert  A. Beck  of  Rumson,  
While  NO  did  not  win  at  N.J., told the Daily Register of  The State Employees Group  
SMC. they still will participate  Shrewsbury, N.J., on Saturday.  Benefits Program  oversees  in­ 

GUADALAJARA SUMMER SCHOOL 
University of Arizona offers more than 40 courses: anthro­pology, art, bilmgual educa­tion, folk music and folk dance, h1story, political sci· ence, soc1ology, Spanish lan­guage and literature and in­tensive Spanish. Six-week ses­SIOn. June 30-August 8, 
1980Fully accredited grad­uate and undergraduate pro­gram Tuition $295. Room and board tn Mex1can home, $315. EEO/AA Write Guadalajara Summer School Robert l. Nugent 209 University of Arizona Tucson 85721 (602) 626-4729 
·ROCCOS 
men's and women's hairstyling at comfortable prices 531 N. Michigan 233-4957 


in the National ·college Bowl "A( this point. we're still surance for government em­held in W.Va. at the end of this trying to track it down. To our ployees, who presently are month. This opportunity was knowledge n·o request was cov-ered by an insurant:e pm­
( Spring Breakout l
granted to NO because they made by the FBI to use our gram financed by the State of were winners in a radio College name in the operation.'' Louisiana. Bowl game held in St. Louis last David J. Sherwood of Mon­month. In the radio game, ND mouth Beach, N.)., Pruden­In the meantime, Oklahoma South Bend to Ft. Lauderdale 
scored a decisive win over tial's president, also said he State Senate President Pro Tern Purdue while losing to them at was unaware of the company's Gene Howard said four men Charter at $189.00 
the Regional games. The as-. involvement in the scheme. posing as Prudential agents sured spot at the National The Sunday Advocate said offered him $5,000 in cash and March 29-April 5 College Bowl might have influ­witnesses subpoenaed to ap­$8,000 per month if Prudential enced ND performance at the pear before the grand jury­was selecte-i as administrator of Hotel rooms available Regional games. Capt. Daniel mclude Gov. Edwin Edwards, -the--st-ate·health, insurQ-ace pro-'\ Melileman added that ''we lost · Lt. Gov. Jimmy, Fitzmorris, Lt. ·gram First· Bank Triz:V~I ·irz BOdin 

The Observer Monday, February 11 , 1980 -page 4 
t:arl.ltuul~tlt.• 
Mtlhkau II\ 
\.\ttn.• Dum~· ~~~ 1~\o\~tnl-.\llk II' 
\"alro' IM~ ~•ult ~l•r} \ 
'" 


/ 
'" J<:t;.dham 1,~
I! l•o~.l\\•rll~nlk 
lll lnJuma ~1. 12'
1.; ~inr \lat)'" l.ll 
hurlham .:!2tl 
li 

FatUlam .l'JI 
l:.arlham Jll 

I' t·.•ulham 19\ 
ll·\ ~utrc l>am'--' 1'!0 
I~ Fr1tnkl1n 
SIU.C 171

" l\
Ml.!.C :!9~ 
SIU.C zoo
'" 
CubuuJaW 
l•• 


ll7 \U\notS-120 
l'utLhJ4' 
'"' 
llhmlll• !~!I 
Larltu11n I')! I 
14 

Valpt1 )1.-, 
l'un.lut• l.!U
1(11)_...;,=;..___;=.,-/ 

PurJu,· .:..''io 
lliinu\., <.l~ 
11>------­
hanklin 
ltll.haun St. 
"' 
{uJJO.IHI !'lt. ~•I 

II•' \ .alpo.r1mo .w~ 
II MiiUkMU \~1 
\.'alpar-.thu ~~ 
~~ 

'\lilHko~u 10 
#i 

COLLEGE BOWL· DOUBLE EUMINI\TION FEBRUARY 8-9, 1980 SAINT MAR\''S COLLEGE, NOTRE DAME, IN 
Putdo< 310 
-~-·· 
PUJWJJE 


BEARSVILL~ 
.j) 
\? 

STEREO LPS SERIES 898 
5.99
PICTURED ITEMS ONLY 
STEREO LPS SERIES1798 
12.57
PICTURED ITEM ONLY 
ASYL 

AVAILABLE AT THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
..... ".....~ 
... Purdue 

[c:ontmued from page 3] 
Mary Laveri:y, member of the ACU-I College Bowl Com­mittee, commented on the SMC team's showing, "the team did as well as it could--the competi­tion was tough. The girls worked hard." She said it won't be known for another 5-6 months whether SMC will host next year's games because each school bids to hold the competi­tion at their own school. "From the (SMC and NO) players' viewpoint having the games here has not proven to be an advantage or disadvantage." But even if the games won't be held here, SMC will still have a ttam compeung. 
Both NO and SMC picked their teams from intramural competi­tion of student formed teams in the fall. Then the all-star team (the one who won the intramur­al games) is chosen for the College Bowl team . along with other students who have proven themselves to be knowledgeable players throughout the comp­etition. 
There was a dinner and awards presentation after the final games on Saturday. All the ream members received certificates of participation and the wtnning team was awarded a plaque. · 
Brademus, 
. 

Rivlin meet with press 
Congressman  John  Brade­ 
mas,  House  Majority  Whip,  
. and  Mrs.  Alice  M.  Rivlin,  

Director of the Congressional Budget Ofice, Washington, D.C., will hold a press confer­ence today from 8:30 to 9 a.m. at the Notre Dame Center for Continuing Education, Room 112-114. 
Brademas and Rivlin will report on the Fiscal Year 1981 budget President Carter recent­ly submitted to Congress. As director of the Budget Office, Rivlin is responsible for advis­ing Congress on the Federal budget, including economic forecasting and fiscal policy analysis. 
Almon lectures on geology 
Dr. Wiliam R. Almon, a distinguished lecturer with the American Association of Petrol­eum Geologists, will discuss ''The Impact of Diagenesis on Exploration Strategy and Res­ervoir Management" at 4:15 
p.m. today in Room 101 of the Earth Sciences Building. Every­one is welcome to attend the talk, sponsored by the Depart­ment of Earth Sciences. 
Almon, who earned his Ph.d. in geolo~y at the University of Missourt, ts a petrology re­
search  manager  with  Cities  
Service  Company  in  Tulsa,  
Oklahoma.  '  

-.,. ·-···· 


Free University program risks cancellation this sem.ester 
by Kel/i Flint StaffReporter 

Unless the Free University program receive;; at least te_n additional courses for thetr curriculum by 5 p.m. today, the program may not be offered this semeste.-, accorJins to Curt Hl'nch, Services Commtssioner. 
Free University, now in its f,,urth year, uffers offbeat courses for students with similar interests. Courses offered in the past include: bartending, sky-diving, and 
Both Notre Dame andSaint Mary's are well represented by the 
students on February 18.
performers in this year's Evening ofDance. [see story on page 
_2j 
Carter triumphs in Maine with 44 percent of vote 
AUGUSTA, Maine (AP) ­President Carter led Sen. Ed­ward M. Kennedy last night as Maine Democrats voted their presidential preferences in pol­
itical town meetings, and the president declared he had won in the challenger's own New England territiory. 
With 73 percent of Maine's town Democratic caucuses re­porting, Carter had 44 percent of the vote to 39 percent for Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat. California Gov. Edmund G. BrownJr. was third with B percent. 
Caner, spending the week­end at his Camp David, Md., mountaintop retreat, issued a statement sayjng, "I especially appreciate the hard work and dedication of the thousands of supporters and volunteers in the state whose efforts made this victory possible. 
''I regret that international 
circumstances made it impos­
sible for me to travel to Maine 
during this campaign and I look 
forward to the time when I am 
able to once again personally 
and directly seek the support of 
my fellow Democrats around 
the country.'· the statement 
said. 
"Both Sen. Kennedy and 
Gov. Brown ran strong, well 
organized races, and I con­
gratulate them on their cam­
paigns," it said. 
In Maine, White House press 
secretary Jody Powell said it was a major setback for Ken­nedy. 
However, Maine Gov. Joseph Brennan said the outcome was a victory for the challenser because Carter was not gettmg a clear majority. Brennan, Kennedy's state campaign manager, said the contest was 

too  close  to  call  and  then  
declared, ''To night  is  a  great  
victory.''  

Brennan contended that any­thing short of 50 percent of the vote was a setback for Carter. 
Powell scotfed at that and said a victory by one percentage point or one delegate was good enough for him. 
"If he can't win here where he has everything going for him ... then where do you win,'' Powell said of Kennedy. 

At a Carter victory rally where the votes were counted, Powell told cheering supporters of the president, "You folks have produced a victory that certainly makes the president very happy." 
He satd the Kennedy camp was saying strange things, suggesting th<.:t ''up is down and a loss is a win." 
''Where I come from, when you win, you win and when you lose, you lose and close counts in horseshoes,'' Powell said. 
He said in an interview that if the senator from Massachusetts can't win in Maine, the ques­tion is where he can win over Carter.
.•. 


r------~-------~-------------~ 
BUY ONE GET ONE FREE<~ 
Your choice: Big Mac: Quarter Pounder: 
Ouarter Pounderwlth Cheese or Filet­
' 

0-Fish"• 
0offer good Feb.11 thru17 only at McDonald's of Roseland 
r·! 

52665 U.S.3"! North 
.. \ j . , ...,
H ,. \ I 
:0 limit one coupon per . i ':>i student pi ease 
t . 
(:j!J,()I 
ill . •· 

L----------------------------~ 
ANYTHING GROWS 
53600 n. ironwood 
fiowers, plants & gif'ts 
VALENTINE'S DAY IS FEBRUARY 14: 
call abou't free delivery 
272-8820 

eludes your.cnoice 9f sirloin er -~~ $iflo .. ·. _ . «:;9fllPiete 
'th~ feaSt Witb a trip tqpur salad par.vegetable, bread, and yeurchoice of;·· long gra{l and wUd rice. bakM potato. or French fries. Join us all day on Sun­
d.ays_ an_d Qur:!!!91~9r~inner hours, 
~ MQm:taytht't)\JQh'TflUrsdays,for top · at bottom pr~~$, Reservations 
:·~·...:?''.... 
-...... • • .c,•_. 

self-defense. 
"We artribute the shortage of courses and teachers to a lack of public1ty,·· Hench said. Normally, an average of 500 students participate in the program. A minimum of 20 c'1urses is necessary for the program to operate. 
·'The problem is that we only have a minimal number of teachers-ten thus far," Hench said. "We usually have 
3)-60... 
The program, sponsored by rill' Student Services Commis­sion, is available to Notre Dame and Saim Mary's students. 
"We're trying to provide a format where teachers with a knowledge in a certain subject area form courses," Hench said. There is no charge for the course, and the student receives no credit. 
Hench noted that the program is not as popular as it slwuld be. "With all the diversity of interests on uunpus, students should take the t imc to sign up for these course;,. They're missing a great opp11nunity. ·· 
Teachers interested in Vtllunteering for the program ;,htluld submit to the Student Unu111 a wrinen description of the pr11p11sed course, along with 1 he days and times that they will be able to teach the course. These slwuld be turned in by 5 
p.m. this evening. Interested teachers who are unable to submit a wnnen course de;.cript i11n should call the Student Union by 5 p.m. today. Tead1ers should also include their name, a telephone number where they can be readwd. and any materials that they feel are necessary for the course. c..urse description catalogues will be maikd to 
Editorials  
Student Govt. silence:  
Are the scholarships lost?  
Last  semester,  the  Notre  Dame  Student  Government  
cl.timed  man;­ "subrle"  successes  10  dealing  with  the  
:\,lmmistration.  With  the  current  Issue  of  athletic  
,;,lwlarships, however, The Observer believes the time for  
subrleties has passed.  Student Government must organize  
,tnd  ani~.:ulate  srudent  concern  over  the  Administration's  
,t·ln·.:y about pending financial decisions.  These decisions  
r, r r r r r r  m.11 jeopardi:t.e the hockey program, as well as many other n.,n·tevenue producing spc:ts. The rationale behind the-proposed revocation of athletic 'l IJ,,Jar,.,h ip,., for all sports except football and basketball has 1111t been dt-.;dosed satisfactorily. But it will not be elaborated untd the llniversit;-is pressured to feel its responsibility to 1lw -.;t udcrH body. At a forum in Grace Hall last week, the .\"'"liatt· ,-\rhletic Director, Colonel John Stephens stated rtJ,It tht' de.:ision concerning the schofarshi?s was up to Fr.  
I •Itt' and the Board of Trustees.  Joyce, by closing his ears  
.t­ w(:ll  as  his  mind,  has  left  the  trustees  as  the  only  
.q•pr•>at habk  body.  And  Srud~:nt  Government  is  the  
... ; udcnt,.,  main access to the Board of Trustees.  
'i; udcn1 Government claims to represent the needs of the  
,, .~.JcrH  hod~·  to the Administration.  The "subtle" approach  
.r.J,,)lll'll by the current Student Government can be useful in  
•ht .11111ng private conferences with  University administra­ 
i•'f''  But ",.,ubrleness" can also mask failures.  
I11  t111-.  situation--one  which  greatly  affects  student  
·l'l'l 1.11 •>rs as well as athletes--the students have a right to  
"now what  steps Student Government is raking,  on  their  
hchalt.  We  believe  that  Student  Government  cannot  
pr.•pnl~  represent the studel'ts' concern until their concern  
1' snltuted and responded to.  
Jf,e Oh.1·er1'er and student body have witnessed n..> action  
•111  the pan of Student Gcvernment reg.1rd. ~g  the pos-,ible  
los" of athletic  scholarsh.ps.  If it  IS  true  that  Student  
liovernment  is powerless in  such  matt~r·;  o~·  importance,  
pl'rhaps  rhe  existence of Student Government  should  be  
n·e,·aluated.  If,  as  we  suspect,  Student  Government  is  
dealing with the issue "subtly,"  we question whether it is  
truh· acting as a student representative.  

P.O.Box Q 
Mock Convention : The time to choose 
/)L·.tr l:'dllur: 
In a few weeb., Notre Dame wdl take part in the Mock l{epublican Convention and the ~~~trt· Dame communitv will ll.t\t· an opportuni'y to indicate ''" clwile as the Republican Pt'l'"itdential nominee. At this )Hlllll I( l'i Importallt for us (0 I lllhtdn who we would like to t·ndorse. It should be someone massacre goes on' They are 
l'lt hn securing taxes to pay for 11 or they are sitting idly by_an~ a'! 1w1ng it to go on as 1f It wasn't Important. 
A, f11 r those who say that a Land 1date should not be judged 1111 a single issue (especially one D! murality) it seems that we e<lflnot sa\ that at Notre Dame. h•r we are a Christian commun­
111 . Our lite priority is to live our faith. How well do we live 
who rdkL ts the h1ghest Ideals· Dur fanh when we rubber stamp 
,,f our countn· and who repre­
,t'tll.., what we, as the foremost 
I .•uhoiJL Ullt\'t-rslt}' 111 the world, 
iwhnt· Ill. 
Ll·llgtln· debates can and 
'1,1-. c O<'l'fl held a hour where the 
•.ctdl,l.ttn -.t;tlld on the various i"lll'• h·I 1he most part, the ' -•IH<·fldn... lt.•ld u~tnmon views. I· 1' ti<.U'•·tr'l' f(,r us ro find the 
"~<l~o!.t:1· wiJ;, stands out. 
f'. dJ11t .tl ~-.-.ues are important 
: ' u-hl·t < ll1• less than any­
.\:1,.,,. l'i'c. · f.kvond that, 
I!·•\\'< •·-r. .\11trc Dan1e--like few 
,;,,,., ltlll\'ersttiL'S·-IS a great 
rl,tlll(llt•n ,If' m"r;,.tl issues. . 
p,'l'h.qh dw mo-;t pressmg 
ll..!.d 1'-lll' in our lOUtHry today 
. 1i1.ti ul abortion. Each year, 
th· •ur a mdlwn and a half 
1lll~>Lt'lll human beings are 
nur dered before they have the . 'l'l'"rcunity to see the light of 1 ,,d 'w11rld. 
\VIwrc· arc our leaders as thi! 
an atrolit>' like abortion for the s;tk<: of politics? How can we make that trade-off in good cotJScience? Nor only shuuldn't we. bu1 we don't have to. 
Thne is one leading candi­date. l{epublican or Democrat, that doe!'. not make the trade­off That candidate is Ronald ){eagan. All his life he has been an opponent of abortion, and now he is the only viable candidate who supports a Con­stitutional Amendment guaran­tet·tng every single human be­111 g·-. right w life. . 
N11tre Dame can never res1gn Itself to the not inn th:lt abortion ~'<a LiLI of life. The time must ulfnc when we forcefully assert what our faith tells us is right. !'he time is now.-A vote for ){eagan is a vote for life . 
Mike Quinlan juseph Falvey George E. lams 
Monday, February 11, 1980 -page 6 
As It Is 

Ode To A Father 
"If I do not destro:v the famzly, the famzly wzll destroy me. '' --R.D. Laing 
_ "I was never loved by my father, for reasons I am forbid­den to know. It is a tragedy wh1ch I alot1e must bear all the days ofmy life. This is the great crime of all parents who bring children into this insufferably oppressive world and neglect to give them the one thing that human beings need most: love.'' Thi5 IS one of the most difficult pieces of writing I have ever undertaken. It concerns the recent awakening of a young man to the stark reality that he was never loved by his father. The horror I fed is in wondering if any of us will ever face the similar prospect of our own ex:stential abandonment by .a loved one--be it parent, spouse, lover or friend. What brings these particular thoughts to mind is 'that the young man's father is dead. Tomorrow is the fourth anniver­sary of his death, at age 58, on February 12. Lincoln's birth­clay. 
The young man had always believed, falsely, that the con­verse was true: Da,d loved him; he must have loved him. It's just that he showed it in strange ways: Like trying to compen­sate for_ a wh?le ye~r· s neglect by buymg his son s favor at Christmas, brandishing mer­chandise instead of his heart. Or the time the son came home with a report card glistening with straight 99s (the highest average in.the school), and his Dad stoically quipped, "How come you didn't get lOOs?" Or the fact that the boy played five sports at varying times in his high school career, but his father never found time to attend one of his games. Little things like that. 
The young llJan reminisced about the deep ·love he had for his father. As a youth, when­ever his Mom and Dad fought, the s'iblings would ~ive succor to Mom, including h1m, since it was usually Dad's fault that the fight commenced in the first place. After things died down, the son would scamper to his father's sde, trying to cheer Dad's saggmg spirits. The fa­tht>r would sometimes reward his son's devotion with a trip to a m:arby Italian restaurant. The bliss of yourh--pLaa with Pop! 
Another time, the son hid himself in the backseat of the family car so as to accompany the idol of his affections to his job. Unwittingly, the lad (a mere )) feil asleep. His Dad later received a rather dis­traught puutle call from his Mom about his son's sudden disappearence. Smelling a rat, the boy's father raced to the car to find the boy crying. He was subsequently -~i ;.nked, thus truncating his imrepid days of youthful adventure. ­
As he contiuued to grow, the son sparkled as a student, athlete, and role-model to his siblings. He was the top stu­dent in his school for the first ten years. He was an all-star baseball, football, and basket­ball player from Little League through high school. He was the Student Body President, Eagle Scout, and assistant ed­itor for the school paper and literary magazine. He played lead roles in school drama productions, organized walka­thons for the handicapped, tutored the unJerprivileged worked P'~!-t-time jobs, traveled to ·Europe, dared selectively (and <>nmenmes successfully). Quit< simply . the son did ir all. 
Bur It was never enough to please the father. 
His father was an unstinting­ly critical man, an insolent trait which irked the son to no end. As time went by, the son and father grew apart, as the fa­ther's vituperative pokes at the son, out of seeming envy, insecurity or simple disdain, took their toll. The son became an avowed rebel, scorning-the father's ways and all that he stood for. The cost of the son's "Iiberation" was a great deal of family agonizing, gnarled per­sonal emotions and ongoing bouts with loneliness, alien­ation and despair. 
As the rift widened, each took refuge in different sources: the son with his music and 
Chris Stewart 
friends; the father in his job. 

At the height of the furious confrontations, the fcaher ver­bally Jisowned his son. The son retaliated by revoking his pledge of respect toward his father, whom he no longer considered worthy of adulation. The acrimony in these exchan­ges grew to almost demonic proportions. They assailed one another with one sarcastic barb after another. Their relation­ship, for all practical purposes, we~s over. 
Until the father rook ill, 
unexpectedly, in the winter of 
'75. 

Both of them, having con­rented themselves with war, now recognized the need for peace. The son knew intuitively what the father feared: time was now short. They buried the axe, as the clock ticked away. 
The son remembered the irony of the evening he J.>re­pared his father for entry Into the local hospital. The father's emaciated body, ravaged by the effects of the debilitating disease within him, could hard­ly stand aright. The son did everything possible to alleviate his father's nascent fears. He dressed him, combed his hair, brought him to the car where they would soon embark upon on their final trip together. 
The father spoke softly, tell­ing his son that ~e was now the man of the family. As the son looked into his father's tired eyes, he felt his pain, his knowing that death was rapidly approaching while his body, spirit and voice slowly ebbed away. 
In that instant, the son realized that by preparing his father to die, it was the closest physical, emotional, and spirit· ual contact he had ever had with his father. . 
Three weeks later, the father died. The son did not cry at his funeral. 
Three years later, on the anniversary of his father's death, the son cried for the first and only rime. 
This year, there is no room for tears. Just the memory of a father who never was the man his son hoped him to be. 

-The Observer_ 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer IS an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
administrati~·n of either mstituuon 
Editorial Board and Department Managers
The new~ IS reponed as a(.curately and 
Sport:; Edrtor... .Mark Perry Features Edztor . ... Kathleen Connelly Photo Editor........... ... Doug Christian 
Rusmess Manager ..... ... Steve Odland ProductiOn Manager ... ..] ohn McGrath .4..dvertH-mg Manager.. .. M. Holsinger Controller..... . . . . ........Kevin ManiOn Crrculatwn Manager ..... .Greg Hedges 
a-. obfedtvely as possible. Editorials represent the opmton of a maJonty of tht> Ednonal Board Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of 
their authors Column space IS avail­able to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions 0'1 campus, through lerrers,-is encouraged. 
Edztor rn chief.... Rosemary Mills Managrng Editor.. .. .. Diane Wilson Editonal Editor .Ann Gales Senror Copy Edztor... .M. Onufrak ExeC--utrve News Editor. .Mike Lewis News Edztor............. . . Mark Rust News Edrtor.... .Mike Shields SMC News Editor ....... .Margie Brassll 

..
~---­
Features 
Monday, February 11 , 1980 -page 7 

Turned Off by the Church 
Fr. Bill Toohey 

When students tell me they're ''Our problem with the church,'' dictatorial mind-set. · Such a voice God. having problems with the institution­they continue, "is precisely at the lacks authority because it issues its We can no-.v appreciate something al church, I find myself saying, point of authority, that is, with the commands only from a position of the history of the papacy has been
might, not from one of right.
"Welcome to the club." way the institution is run, with the trying to teach us for years: FaitHuldecision-making procedures of those
The problem is not in having Why was ) esus different? The conformity to God's authority dues
in charge."

problems with the c_hurch but in answer comes from considering the not come automatically with papal
It's at this point in the conversation
having the wrong. kmd. For one root of the word "authority.~' installation, as though by magic. All
that I usually find myself repeating,
thing, and most ~mportantly, stu­Christian authority has reference to popes have had the responsibility but 
"Welcome to the club." Th1s is the
dents need to realize that some of the "author", God Himself. God is have not equally deferred to the
moment also when I su~gest that a
their problems are not with the the author, the one authority. Author and done His will--as we note
reflection on the authonty of Jesus
church as a whole but with elements Although I continue to be amazed from history, when those "in author­
might provide a solution to our
within the church that simply demon­that so few Catholics seem to believe ity" condemned Galileo, accepted
dilemma.

strates the fact that we are a mixture it, the Pope is not the supreme slavery, outlawed religious freedom, 
When the people observed that
of saints and sinners. authority in the Roman Catholic
Jesus taught -and exercised His etc. It is, therefore, crucial toRight from the start ."~e <?ug~t to Church--God is.
ministry "with autho~ity," the¥ con­understand the difference betweenpoint out that the term tnstttuuonal No one but God has the kind of
trasted Him to the scnbes; that 1s, He authentic Christian authority faithful­church" is tautological. You can't authority of which the Gospels speak. 
was not just an expositor--' 'authorita­ly exercised and, on the other hand,have church without institution, with­Everyone else, fr"om the Pope to the
tive'' like the Encyclopedia Britanni­arbitrary power. The criteria forout some structure or organization, least of us, has sonething quite
ca. Jesus' authority did not come judgment are the teachings of theprecisely because church is _commun­different: the responsibility, accord­
from academic or professional cre­Gospel, church tradition and theity, an "ecclesia," a gathenng of the ing to our calling, of deferring to the
dentials. Jesus' authority was to be assessment of the Christian faithful,people of God. From the very first one authority, God. Traditionally, we
contrasted with external factors; an who are rromised by Jesus themoment of response to God's cal_!, have called this "delegated author­
authority, for example, based on 
even in its most initial stage, one 1s ity.'' Consequently, authority in the guidance o His Spirit, ''who will lead 
rank, a sign on a door, initials after a you to the full range of truth'' aohnaffiliated necessarily with others. Christian community can never be
name, a special parking place, insig­
14,26).

When we surrender to Jesus, for claimed by any person except Jesus,
nia on a collar or a collar itself (of
example, we don't somehow give who was totally one with the Father.
Roman origin) or a position held, Strange as it may seem, thi~ourselves to Him without simultane­e.g., boss, coach, superior, profes­Church (delegated) authority is not reflection brings us to the point ot
ously joining ourseh:es to ~hose claimed; it is verified ir. fact--meas­
sor. parent. asserting t',at we don't n•::ed lessothers who are also untted to Htm. We all know from exp'erience that ured by actions, based on the degree authority in the Catholic -~!mrch; we
The vast majority of~ students of faithful manifest::ttion of the one
the effort to claim authority just need more! We need more authority;
readil.y come to accept this. _As they authority of God, the carrying out of
doesn't work. We recognize that real that is to say, we desperately need
would put it, "We can buy mto the His will, the furthering of His plan.
authority has something to do with an more instances when those withfact that the church is people, that we responsibitity will more faithfullyare all members joined together interior quality, a special -charism. Thus, from the time of St. Peter, all defer to the one authority of God. ToAnd the saddest thing of all is to see who have been in "positions ofthrough common faith in the risen want more authority is to want the
Lord. We have no problem with those who least have this interior authority," have had delegated to this," they say, "indeed we quality most vehement in them the responsibility of deferring Lord. Itistocallour, "Amhor!" Iris
gladly become to desire the coming of the kingdom,their claims for it. The more they to the authority of God. This kind ofembrace the truth that we are the God's presence more truly manifest­claim it and insist upon it as their responsibility is not a privilege but achurch, and that we are not to see the ed by His people, more faithfullydue, the more they demonstrate burden. Jesus taught, acted, spokechurch as 'out there,' or as somehow revealed, mediated, channeled asthe private property of_ the Pope and futility. They speak, not with true and lived with authority precisely Jesus once did, and longs to doauthority, but out of insecurity and because of His relationship with Histhe hierarchy, disassoCiated from the again, through us, His witnesses.

fear of being disobeyed; out of a Father; He had charism, the Spirit of
rest of us.'' 
An Evening of Dance 
Choreographed and directed by 
Debra Sedore Stahl 

j 
Since its inception six years ago, the ND-SMC dance program has come a very long way. The "Evening ofDance" presented at O'Laughlin Auditorium last Friday and Saturday nights showed just how much progress has been made in the face of what can most kindly be called a policy of benign neglect on the part of the administration, and also indicated how much more can and should be done to further develop the program. 
This year's "Evening of Dance" demonstrated a very impressive diversity, with works running the gamut from a classical, plotless ballet with corps, soloists and principals, to "dance bags" to vaudeville to jazz. The most successful works -were the more innovativt:', off-beat pieces in which the dancers could loosen up and concentrate on the total performance rather than the choreography alone. 
The best ballet of the evening, and the one which elicited the greatest audience response, was the '')azzzz2' ', choreographed on a jazz arrangement of Aaron Copeland's "Fanfare for the Common Man" and performed by Andrea Dereng, Patricia Kirk, Taggarty Patrick and Colleen Quinn. A shake-ir-up, boogie-down piece, the four danced with terrific enthusiasm and real stage presence. Their fine performance was strongly supported by the 
Tnsha Kirk and jeffMousseau execute a penche.
imaginative lighting design of Mark Harris, particularly during one seque!!ce when the dancers did a series of running leaps across the stage to flashmg black and white disco-type lights. The weakest" piece of the evening was the opening work "Eine Kleine 
"An Experiment in Space: Switched-On Bach" was a successful attempt Nachtmusik", a plotless classical ballet set to Mozart's "Eine Kleine ar a more "experimental" style of dance. Six dance bags of assorted colors Nachtmusik" and "Symphony.# 40 in G Minor": Dancing the work was a (Mary Beth O'Brien, Regina Pratt, Frances Regas,_ Mary and Nini Stoll. and corps de ballet, female soloists and male and female principal dancers. The Heth Willard) were arranged on a series of ascendmg platforms and twtsted 1 choice of "Nachtmusik" was surprising; composed as chamber musiC, the and turned to Bach's "Sinfonia to Cantata #29". piece is nearly undanceable, and performers appeared to be counting beats A note of romance was interjected by "Remembrance", a pas de deux rather than working with the music. The music also cramped the fearuring Mary Beth Budd and Mark Ferring, both of whom turned in a fine choreography; instead of dancing, the performers seemed to be moving from performance. While the choreography was rather static, it did show off Mary pose to pose. The most interesting performance out of the work was that of Beth's long arms and legs with graceful arabesques and difficult lifts (here the three member corps (Mary Beth O'Brien, Frances R< gas, and Beth one has to give credit to the solid partnering of Mark Ferring). Willard) who not only danced together well, but appeared to dance with more 
-· 
The "Waltzes to Rags to Waltzes to Rags to Waltzes to Rags" piece, confidence and poise thau the other performers. choreographed on a selection of Scott Joplin piano pieces, was uneven. The From a technical point of view, "An Evening of Dance" was not an livelier pieces, performed by Taggarty Patrick and Colleen Quinn, were unqualified success, although it had many fine moments. But its stylistic high-spirited, jumpy things danced with verve and humour. The waltz pieces, diversity and the potential of the dancers, as well as the stze and enthustasm while well danced, were both musically and choreographically sluggish. All of of the audience indicated that the dance program will continue to expand the pieces sufferedfrom the horrendous quality of the recording used for the artistically and generate campus interest. Kate Farrell 
....... .
performance. . . 
J 

J 
The Observer Monday, February 11, 1980 -page 8 
--·------------------------------------------------------~~--~~~----~~ 

Ask a Peace Corps volunteer why he teacht~s busmess marketing h·chniques to vegetabl~ farme•s 1n Costa Rica. A~~ a VISTA volunt~er why she r>r!;,an1zes tr1e rural poor in Arkar>sas to set-up fc od co-ops. rhey'll probably say they want to help people, want to use ~heir skills. be involved 1n social change, maybe travel, learn a new language or experience another culture. 
Ask them: Register now at Placement 
Office for interviews: 
March 1 0 -at St. Mary's March 10& 11 
PfN:E at Notre Dame -~ 
c•RPS in Adm. Bldg. ~ISTA 
~'-TUESDAY,
' ~~J
.'-"r FEBRUARY 12
C 

~,o~ 9-12 
S~ PARTY AT FAT WALLY'S 
$5.00 per person includes: 
····unlimited beer ·····unlimited wine (Chablis & lambrusco)
·····munchies ·····music t;. dancing 

DRESSY ATTIRE REQUESTED (NO jeans) 2110'S REQUIRED 
0-C Commissioner Elections 
Anyone living off-campus next year for 2 consecutive semesters 1980-81 may run for 
the position of Off-Campus Commissioner. Th~ election rules are the same as those for SBPISBV elections. Anyone interested in running should 
leave his;her name and phone number in Shannon N~ville's mailbox by 
Feh. 11 
Feh. 14 
Feb. 17 Feh. 24 Feh. 25 Feb. 27 

....­
Monday, February 11. 
Schedule of Deadlines 5:00p.m. Pick uo official candidacy petitions in Student Government o.ffice 40 signatures of Off-Campus studems reqUired. 
5:00p.m.  Return candidacy petitions to  
Student  Government office.  
12:01a.m.  Campaigning begins  

d:OO midnight Campaigning ends Primary election Runoff election 
h1 Tehran 

Atnericans visit with militants. 
A group of Americans on a private visit to Iran met for four hours yesterday with Moslem militants occupying the U.S. Embassy i'n Tehran but did not see the 50 American hostages who spent their 99th day in captivity, Western jour. ,alists reponed. 
lhe Americans' visit lame as Iran prepared for what Tehran Radio callt>d a ''grand military parae!""" today to celebrate the first annivenary of the Islamic revolutl"n rhat ousted Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi. 
Norman Forer, a Kansas University professor heading the delegation of 49 Americans invited by the militants, said there was a ''good exchange of views" during tht: embassy meeting, but refused to provide details. Another group mem­ber, Randy Goodman of Boston, said the delegation was kept in one room and did not see the hostages. 
American Indian activist 
Doonesbury 

by Trudeau 

HOfAICXOTING!
I KNOW. MIKE 
MAY/3& W&
JUSTW/3NT IN 
5HO(Jt..l? Go,
70 5!313 HIM. 
700! \ 


rP LIK£ m MONPAY NIGH75 7HANI< AU­ARe AL/AJ4Y5 or YOfJ fOR.. 8AO, SIR. IT'S 7l/f?N/NG aJT NOT YO(JR 
'TONIGHT.. FAUI..-T. 
I 

John Th•lmas, who is not a member of the delegation, told reporters he visited for 10 minutes Sarurday with U.S. Marine Paul Lewis, one of the hostages, and found him to be in "perfect" condition. 
Thomas trrived in Tehran a week ..tgo nnd delivered rwo parcels of mail he brought from the hostages' families. He had visited Iran last month, spend­ing two weeks in Tehran before leaving Jan. 17 to return home with mail from the hostages to their relatives. 
He has made several visits to 
the embassy on  this trip.  He  
said he  was  returning  to  the  
United  States  today  with  ad­ 

ditional letters and messages from the hostages, who have been held since the embassy was seized Nov. 4. 
The Foreign Ministry issued the delegation members four­day visas last Thursday, but Miss Goodman said the visas were extended. She did not say for how long. 
Iranian President Abolhassan Bani-Sadr, who is to preside over today's celebration, re­newed his criticism of the militants for inviting the Amer­icans to Tehran. 
Today's celebration marks the anniversary of the resigna­tion of former Prime Minister Shahpour Bakhtiar, who was appomted to run the country by the shah shortly before the monarch fled Iran. 
On the day of Bakhtiar's resignation, power passes to a Revolutionary CouPcil and a provisional government. Kho­meini 's Council of the Islamic Revolution designated as prime minister Mehdi Bazargan, who 
resigned to protest seizure of 
the U.S. Embassy in Tehran 
Nov. 4. 

Khomeini had been schedul­
ed to preside over Tehran's 
parade, in which units of the 
army, police, revolutionary 
guards and revolutionary com­
mittees were to tak1 part, the 
radio said. But yesterday, 
Khomeini's office announced 
that under advice from his 
doctors, the ayatollah would not 
attend because of cold winter 
weather and the condition of his 
health. The 79-year-old Kho­
meini is in a Tehran hospital 
convalescing ftom a heart at­
tack Jan. 23. 

The radio interrupted its Sunday programs to tell Tehran residents not to be alarmed about shooting they might hear in the city, because Revolution­ary guards were firing their guns in celebration of the anni­versary, according to monitors in London. They said the radio asked the guards to "moderate their jubilation.'' 
Meanwhile, the joint armed forces command issued a state­ment in which it renewed allegiance to Khomeini, whom it described as "the age's messenger,'' and said it would hold the parade under the auspices ofBani-Sadr, the radio reported, according to monitors in Kuwait. It said similar ceremonies would be held in other Iranian cities. 
To mark the Iranian anniver­sary, Soviet President Leonid I. Brezhnev sent Khorneini an official message stressing the Kremlin's desire for "good­neighborly relations" with Iran, Moscow Radio reported. 
Scholars foresee likely draft registratiqn of women 
WASHINGTON (AP) -While Congress seems cool toward registering women for the draft, legal scholars say no matter what happens on Capitol Hill, the courts most likely will have the final say on whether women join men in registration lines. 
And in the courts, those advocating the registration of women as well as men, includ­ing President Carter and his advisors, are expected co carry the upper hand, say many legal experts. 
"Whichever way it goes (in Congress), ther,e will be a suit filed," says Thomas Emerson, a professor of"constitutionallaw at Yale University. "There's no way that the courts can avoid it.'' 
The American Civil Liberties Union already has said it will challenge any attempt to regis-· ter only men. ''The day that the president signs (male only registration), we will be in courr," vowed David Landau, a 
staff attorney  in  the  ACLU's  
Washington office. 1 Phyllis Schlafly,  a  leading  

opponent of the Equal Ri~hts Amendment and harsh critiC of women's registration, said she will focus her efforts on Con­gress, which must approve such 
registration. 

"There's no way Congress will register women,'' she in­sisted In an interview. But if unsuccessful on Capitol Hill, she does not rule out some court action, although the basis of such a suit on constitutional grounds is not clear 
f 
'oi'; .• ,.._ 

After Caner announced Fri­
day that he wants to register 
both men and women 18 and 19 
years of age, White House 
officials said a major factor in 
the decision was the prospectpf 
court challenges if women were 
excluded. 

If the p.resident had decided 
to register only men, said Sarah 
Weddington, a lawyer and 
presidential advisor on wo­
men's issues, "there was a 
feeling that a lawsuit (against 
Carter) would be successful" in 
light of a number of recent 
Supreme Court rulings on wo­
men's equality. . 

Caner said in a statement his 
decision to include women "is a recognition of the reality that both men and women are workmg members ofour society ...There is no distinction pos­
sible, on the .~asis of ability or 
performance. 

A number of experts on 
constitutional law agree. 

They note that when the 
all-male draft was in effect, 
various court challenges were 
rebuffed on the grounds that 
military necessity and national 
defense outweighed considera­
tion of sexual equality. 

The Supreme Court has yet to hear a draft case. But a string of lower court decisions since 1974 have tended to open new avenues for women in the military: the admission of women to service academies; women's equal consideration in the awarding of ROTC scholar­ships; and assignment of wo­men on a broader range of Navy ships, even temporarily on com­
bat ships. 
. .•. 

'. 

The Observer Monday, February 11 , 1980 -page 9 
CLC discusses party policy move 

EII'LQYEA' BHVJJOKJ<FAI. IIITSQI POOGIWO • CALtP!lRIIL\ 1UClRROW NORnllio\Sf •AClfiCN011l1111!$T 
JOB DESCRlP'rtON: rho: ltzlvil"'OUM'tttll tnu.rn Protraa is :a non..p~l~ .~ntl31Ul protyU: \lhieh places qlHUf.lM itu;llv14uds bl ularied int1trft~lSI'f v:ith ccnparationJ1 ,ovem.n~al ...-u:io• m~d AORw~fl.t. o-raani:tatl<lli-A ne,e enviTooMnt•lly nl&ted posl"i-ans ofl•r.rtuchm.U t"' qppctt'\~o~titr tQ-WOrk: ltii.th p'tOf&SSiOM:lS. DR ch.dltme.iii.l ~tfilllidUl'Y Ji'l'OJ•c:t=l. . EtP wpp-1-.nts ea~:h hrtemllti.p. wlth aft ~ti.ond PfO:tJ':Q of liiO-rkfhopf, ed!14tiond utttrtllS ...nd c.Q;)lul~a~1on~ vith. t!,IP ,.t-.ff. 
CA.t.IFORNU l'OtatROW ~ CALtf'OANll\ tom«IAST-i~L'INJ::~ NEW tWIPSJtltm* V~. ~~~ JUI)08 ¥SLAHI), CONHECTlCin'. NEW lOR(•...::me NOI!I1iliEST -IIA9UNGMI, ORJIQl!l, IIWOl 
Eatll inter= b paid. • •o.t1)( f..tuy ru_aint, trc. SUS. 00 t-o U7S,OO. Refer to specific i~b dolil~:riptiOI\a. far details-~ 
PLACBIENT BUREAU1 ~ 2U, Adii~i\htH.tiG¥1: ~l.Uai;. 
A.•Vt.ICATlO:H PROCEDUltES ~-DtN>LIN£ t)A'tl -$.RQi l~ 1916 
L Collpl.-tH appHeation fOnl~ 

i: J!;:i~}1 l..~!:·~~f..=...:~, 
4. $S.Otl •ppUc•tiOB tn. 

~ttmai~ Ort&-pap··wr:tti&e suple ~ -tecctilefldet.t~ 
. LIST 01' !PI'CfPIC J.OB llllSCIUniOI~I;.j$ ~Ait,UIZ ~!f,WJ'•••. , ...·"', • ~......~H~~AU,-. au.. A.~JotliU.t.<~\l>ll.llo!U~· 

K-=&n ·.cona-r.~:d~n ·.:.=f: I in Et:on.. Pll}'.ch·.. SOC~ ~g-t, ~th~· 
Milaca l>ab-otitritle:St· .f~Ji;'; ... :·::. ,,:;_,....,:· Btf tn Chfll.. cllx, !!. · B -tn f:m, C~· $e:t~ 
~;r:hi~si~ct:_~~J~.bJ!S ·g,t!lst _t§m.mr 
Pim®:lt CQ-t'p(ltat.t#n B tn MZ, ££. 
~ 

&MD tft illl dhli"11>linllitil.• 
C'i::S Corp~l-ati'oR B tn Met~ ilf. !;bee~~. ilK 1ft Et. 
Chrdlar Co:t£2ra.tt"on s Jr"" Mi. ri~ . 
nutr:e Uni~l!lrsitx. :Gi.adu:ate:·.:s~MD'f·.ti-f 'fte;·~fW &fllti'ii~· 8 i.n all dhdplinea, t.ocati<>n~ Durn•, NC, 
FJ..aher Controls CmpjUl.Y BM hi .HE, !:!!:, Ch£. !"itt !iE-10. 
Otm-e-ral 'nl'"i!: Ei.:lt~bb'er-· CtllepanY II &'td l'hl). Jn ~ and OJ.-. 
l!•t".cull!iti 7 Inc:,· IK fn ME~ Chli: •.the:m.. 
tlld1ana 6. H!<:Maan &l.eetric to!p!!ty 8 tn ££.MIL 
Murthern Trun COU!p.an.y 
B. :i:n FJ.n._ 

P;l.thbUt'@ NaU<>n.al··JUtttit
..... 

Scott Pmt Ct!!P.e:n)' 8 fn Hkt or Ma.t. for :Hkt/Mgt pofl":lt1unll-. 
N<~:t:l-cmddJ!". 

uptul .Andrns 
a. ht Mb, -At't.$ oM· :lffiu·•. Aau::ln. 
T.rus ltt&b~t.-s: t~~;. fg~tp!!~~t ~rCHf·.•· tM to EE. HE, ~· At:. -CQHP".Sc:J:, ·M_at,h. 
Texas. Inatr.ea:~:•. ·lJJ~~ s,:!lc-~nd~tot ttm ~~us!~~ ~r s,;:J .. ~-~ iiiil.."?.:o K&t.~_-SGUe Stat-.! .Pb)sic:-s:.~ 
Adn• Ltf-e ., ·ca.rll#t£;·:;==:.H~~ :·ortl~~ ll in tlb. Atte. Ju.., Mllil'l-, :Math~· · 
tt~t ,.ort& ~rk t.oow~Y. .u.t. fU. 8 1.11 Ltb. ~-t• ~1t~ s.tr~l-~_ntn<i'n -~~ S.U.~/M~:r~~t.~ng;. !'. ~~:)'EEl~. ,. 
BaH::tt~~-oz:e···Afrcot.l=..5_~ · lnd~ttli!Jl. Flltid..f::Bo~.~T.s-.. .~ ~u.-m: ll=o"t.~ V£1,{_~~-~t,~:i:neet.~.,.~ ..~»t.ll..tt:cm..-=• .4\,<~~t;<m<X••l '"·""'"•;: ;);, ..', 
KO.. C:t tt•~tti:f>to:p Tt~ilttlt-~J. 
-C:ont.lnemt.a:l. Gt~p;; ·.1®>'·..
..... 
. 


~='t:!~~:2@i~~~~~=:~!~h 4~ct ·~~-~~tn hk&rd ~• ''''""''""'. ···'.· 
~a~~ c ::~ 1:,v:r....-~~'1!~1. "Jm~~~ w;r:! 'a(:cim~ 
atrueHon}. · 
S-t-onfl :& \hi:blilt.e:c:E:Da~ftJ!i:i:rt•i:u¢ CQ.rwi8U.ott 1M 1n D1 lC. (:t;, 
ne-u-ol t B'ank ad tT-u~r ~o.pany 
21) 11BA with Acct or f.itl. l:l¥!td ~:·e:on.et.t,~,. UJ a Ut.fln wh:h SO:nd ·lil~l#ltln't.t>ks:rd;:. B t~..=~:c.~ wtt.h at'rtm& int:en•t ln ~<ORliUifi:i.al lend1~8· 
<ault !Q~ti*!!t C011eany 
l. B ln At:t!t:. a lft ME. 
FMeral lle~re:rn ilaa'k .c~;t Cht-ta,S() I in Fta. Ac:et. MBA td!b A-cc:t. of Fln bk.&td or c"ntrnv 
rntern•t:l.oru~l P"•per Coillpany B 1tt Ch.E~ HE. i: in rtn. Acct. 
JJI(J .~e•tty
..... 

PU:ubut&h -n•• MOine• Stui CC!ii:pa~y · I fn tE, Mit,_ Met. 

S~Ht 4 Company I tn Lib. A an4 l • Ad. 
the.ir fields, of studv . 
by Lynn Daley and Phrljohnson 
The Campus Life Council 
(CLC) met last night in Lyons Hall to discuss a proposal drafted by a commit.tee of t.he council on party poltcy. W1th six members of the CLC absent, 
Republicans 
hold HEW hearing 
The Platform Committee for the Notre Dame Republican Mock Convention will hold a public hearing on HEW tonight at 7 p.m. in room 207 of O'Shaugnessey Hall. 
Fasters 
slack 
tn• number 
·The number of students who signed up for the Wednesday lunchtime fast this semester is 1246, down 25 from last semes­ter. 264 of last semester's participants broke the fast. 
All students are invited to attend the faster's Mass every Wednesday at 12:15 p.m. in the Dillion Hall chapel. 
Undergrads 
recezve enrollment info 
All potential returning under­graduates should have received information on advance enroll­ment through campus or regu­lar mail. You are reminded to mail your check and computer enrollment card as instructed. This procedure is required in order to be eligible for ad­vanced registration for Fall courses and for honoring re­quests for on campus housing for next Fall. This enrollment is due by February 15. 
gend ffiat gpectaQ gomeone a C\.JaQentlne 'g Cj}.,y ~onaQ Ut 91tte (0bgetrVeft 1do0en wottdg -1doQQatt 
(10'owcwl~) 


no vote could be taken. Father Van Wolvear, vice-president of student affairs, called the measures '·consultative,'' and said he would take them under consideration. 
The newly drawn up pro­posals are similar to the guide­lines now in effect. One major difference would give the rector of each hall more control over approval of parties conducted in the party room. Under the proposed guidelines, the rector could suspend the one-week application period. Also, parties for weeknights could be approved. 
Paul Riehle; of Keenan Hall, proposed an ammendment to this bill suggesting that those halls which have any grievances with their rectors regarding these specific guidelines might have some recourse for appeal. Dean of Students James 
FLY FROM SOUTH BEND 
ONLY $189
• 

Complete package as low as $298 
Complete package includes 
round trip non-stop jet fare 
'1 nights oceanfront hotel accomodations and all taxes 
also available-National Car Rentals 
DEPARTS NlARCH 29 RETURNS APRIL 5 
for reservation information call Shaz 232-6831 or call toll-free 1-800-848-9540 
1. arrangements by Student Sun Trips, Inc. 
·---·--·-.--------


Roemer commented that stu­dents have a formal means of protest. "Students may go to the rector's immediate super­visor and discuss his or her action.'' Any student who is dissatisfied with a rector's de­cision can appeal it to the Office of Student Affairs. This issue will be discussed further at future meetings. 
In other business, the council reviewed a· letter from Van Wolvear which stated the ad­ministrators' position on park­ing regulations. It denied a proposal by the CLC which would le sseu current restric­tions regarding vehicular ac­cess to campus and student parking on campus. Van W olvear did approve a section of the proposal which recom­mended that a section of Green field be convened into a park­ing lot. 
h·!>. J<t 
·:"""'' 
F'@, 11 
'thur~·. 
~!~$?M~~ 
X 
X 
• 
• 
' 
. 
X 
X X 
X 

lr~...--J.--e.:::ft~~clmolap ·'C,;;:tporat:i(l(l· 
X X 
X 
l! X 
.l 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X X 
• X 
..
• t 
X
X l< 
X 
X 



X X 
X X 
X 
< 
X X 



The Observer -Sports Monday, February 11 , 1980 -page 10 ~ 
[continued from page 12] 
which puts the Irish fifth in the they squandered a 2-0 lead and pan to sloppy passing and Don Lucia and Scott Cameron Western Collegiate Hockey As­were turned away on a come­Duluth's forechecking. 
• • • Duluth dum.ps Irish 
Molarity 


... AND NOW TI-l£ TRAIN PULLS OUT OF f?{)H£ 7EP/-t!NI .. . Tr»toRROW l--fDRN!N6 LJ£i.L BE IN !NNSBRUC.K MID 
NtJTHIN6 cAN STDP US. 
seemed to be a definite factor yesterday, as the Irish blueline painngs were forced to take douhle ~ nifts throughout the game. 
De..,pite the extra work, Jim Bwwn seemed qdite content. "I think getting more ice rime hl'lp.., my gam::-more," he said. ·'1\nd I also like to play with 
,lohn Slhmidt ·· Brown's per­formame ernoed his words well a-. he scored two goals in his hl'-.t offensiv{' gam(· to date. 
Notr!' Darn(· dropped to 11-11. 
by Michael Molinelli 

Irish captain Greg Meredith and sophomore winger Jeff Perry were the offensive bright spurs. Meredith collected a goal and two assists, while Perry notched two tallies in a good effort. 
Meredith's goal, coupled with the one on Sunday, leaves him one short of tying Ian Williams for secon 1-place on the all-rime Irish goal scoring Ii-.; r. 
Trailing 4-3 going into the third period, N1Hre Dame seemed ready to move in for the kill. However, the Bulldogs proved rube formidable prey as they exploded for two goals in the first two minutes of the pniod. Although they seemed to break Notre Dame's back, Smith did not view the goals as ar, insurmountable obstacle. "I still thought that we could get right hack inro it," he said. 
Sure enough, Meredith and P!'rry went ro work, and within tlve mmutes they had sliced the Hulldug lead to 6-5. 
After each team tallied once in the next 10 minutes, Notre Dame made its final bid to send the game into overtime. The la"t three minutes were domi­nated by the Irish, as they frantiLally searched for a way to heal Perk!. With netminder Bob McNamara pulled from the nets w11h 50 seconds to go, the Irish 
made  their  last-ditch  effort,  
only  w  fall  short  on  several  
opportunities  in  the  wanmg  
-.econds.  

The Daily Crossw·o:d 
© 1980 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
ACROSS  28  Revolver  
1 Ostentation  adjunct  
5 10  Hinges Comrade  32 33  Leered Weight  
14 Gallimaufry 15 Constella·  34  allowance German  
lion  art1c1e  
16  Aura  35  Baseball's  
17  Forwarded  Crandall  
18  Discuss the  36  Note for  
20  subject Man with a  39  :;pecial use Fellow  
short fuse  40  Medical  
22 23  Highest peak Sight suffix  42 43  study: abbr Gas Take­(accept a  
24  Kazan  challenge)  
25  Barnacle  45  Certain  
Bill  soldiers  

Friday's Results 
. Pack 
[,·ontim<ed from page 12] 

UCLA won another low-scoring affair. )(1.)2. The loss snaps a l 'i-game home court winning string for the Irish, and is also their worst defeat at home since t ltl·\· lost to Indiana, 94-84, on lk~ernber 11. 1974. 
• • • Split 
[<rmiiflued from paRe 12] 

"They built up such a big lead early, ~~at I think we got a little down. 
The Tartars posted a 39-13 advantage after the first six events but the Irish then came back to take the next three sociation stanCiings, just· be­hind idle Colorado College. 
The defeat was especially damaging to the Irish playoff [)!( ture, as they must finish in tlv.· league'-; top four in orJ~·r to S!'lUf!' the home icc advan.tage wh('fl post-season play begins. Srn11h summed up the players' sentiments be saying, "We've got to suck it in, go to Michigan next we(:k, and comt· away with two victories." 
Saturda:r' afternoon's 7-6 loss wa" frustrating for the Irish, as back !1id late in the game by some brilliant goaltending by Perk!. "'fhis was a very disap­pointing loss for us. They really hustled and forechecked ex­tremely well," remarked Smith. 
Dan Lcmpe, Duluth's all­time leading scorer, paced the Hulldogs with two goals and an assist, and :vas a prime factor in the Bulldog.>' ability to bottle up the Irish in their own end. Notre Dame showed great diffi. culty in breaking out of its zone throughout the game, due in 



I 

northetn Indiana's largest
I 

I tecotd and tape s•l•ctlon I and concert tick•t headquart•rs I 
I . 

Jl.OO OFFII 
I 

ony clbum 0' top• Exp1res February 29. 1980 tlilllll I lllUf't>rl per person)
I I 

1.. 18,000 n:buma nnd tnp•• In atock 
I • ND ~smc atu~nt ch•cka Clcc•pt•d for up to I S20.00 ov•f putehna• nmount 1 I • Op•n 10 to 10, 1 dnya a w••k 
I  
:  Rlv•r City R•cotds  
1  50970 U.S. 31 North  
1-: 1  . .  '3'fi!tJ.i'nottn of' compua1 I.·::)· ·~·.2n-•2•2 ,  ·.·!  

47 Exempts 19 Prefix for 48 Glen, to gram poets 21 Poem form 49 Incite 25 Drinks 50 Most 26 Spacecraft 
beautifufl booster 53 Naive 27 Poorly 57 Help informed 59 Favorite 28 Greek 
60 Vienna, tr, islmd 

Germans 29 Oil land 61 A1da, e.g. 30 Toughen by 62 African exercise 
river 31 Spanish 63 Nothing: Sp. kings 64 Talked 33 Arduous wildly journey 65 Fitted: sl. 37 Great grandfather 
DOWN 38 Finished 1 Luxurious 41 Nicholas' 2 Butterine wife 3 Money maker 44 Term of 
4 Highway affection 
defect 46 Beers 5 Bluff 47 Coverlet 6 Plowed land 49 -bleu! 

7 -vous 50 Act ingra· plait tiatingly 8 Jab 51 Continent 9 Whining one 52 Mulberry 
10 Line dancer bark 11 New lath· 54 Comedienne er's phrase Adams 12 Rubber 55 Single trees 56 Vehicle 13 Humorous 58 Elko's Sahl state: abbr. 
I I I I I 

l I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I 
I 
I 
1 1 
I : 

m_A_d_~.....·_:S_.l_d...
_,,· ....._.,.._.___ ~,-·,_~.__lf_l•_~._•_~ft~. 

ASK THEM WHY 
A~k VISTA lcduntet•r~ wh.v tlw.' W<)l'i; a ~·t'ar \\tth lt',ldt'nt~ of Chicago'~ \\'estsidt> to st't up nllnmunit.' grt>enhc>u~e,. l'he_,,.ll probably say tht>~ 're nlnl't'rnt'd f,,r .-\mt'ri,·a·s pth>r. tht·.' I\ ant to be im·,)ht>d in social chang<' and help pt>tlp!e lt·anl ,,, lw advocate;. f,>t. resour"'"' and ~,.,, ,, . .., the\· tlt't'd A~k tht>m. 
Register now at Placement Office for interviews: March 10 -at St. Mary's March 1 ~-11 at Notre Dame • ~sar• 
events and closed the margin to 45-35. But it all amounted to too lutle, too late as the Tartars clinched the victory with two events to go with a second place finish in the 3-meter diving, won by Notre Dame's Paul McGowan. 
On Saturday, the Irish face a surprisingly tough Toledo squad which had finished a distant third in last December's Notre Dame Invitational Re­lays, won bv the lnsh. 
Clinging to a slim 27-2) lead after six events, the Irish then began to chalk up first place fimshes with regularity, win­ning five of the final seven events. 
t-or the final event, the 400-yard freestyle relay, Stark had saved his big guns and was prepared for a dual to the finish. Yet a false start by Toledo's second man off dis­qualified the team, and the Irish foursome of Mike Shepardson. Gary Severyn, Thorn Krutsch and Komora glided to an easy victory in 3:17.87. 
The win improved Notre Dame's record to 5-4 on the year as the Irish prepare for an eastern swing this weekend 
. I 

------~~~---~-----· 
-------------------.-.-.----------------------------.... 
&mr--,1 
~ 
j
The Observer -SportsBoard Monday, February 11, 1980 -page 11 
j 
Basketball 
Saturday 

N.C. STATE 63, NOTRE DAME 55 
N.C. STATE (63) ·Whitney 9 5-7 23 Jones 2 0·1 4, Watts 0 0-1 0, Austin 0 0-0. 
0. Matthews 5 1-2 11. Whittenburg 1 2·3 4, Lowe 4 5-713. Parzych 04-5 4, Bailey 2 0-1 4. Totals 23 17-27 63. 
NOTRE DAME (55) -Jackson 3 0-1 6, T11puck1 5 7-9 17. Woolridge 4 4-5 12, Branning 6 1-3 13, Hanzlik 0 0-0 0, Mitchell 0 0-2 0. Paxson 0 3-4 3, Wilcox 0 0-0 0. Varner 1 0-0 2. Andree 0 0-0 0, Salinas 1 0-0 2. Totals 20 15-24 51. 
Halftime -Notre Dame 22. N,C. State 20. 
Team fouls-N.r.. State 19, Notre Dame 25. 
Fouled out -None. 
Technical fouls-N.C. State coach Norm Sloan. Shoaling N.C. State 23-42, .548. Notre Dame 20-54 ..370. Attendance -11.345 (c) 
MIDWEST Bu:ler 91. Xavier. Ohio 81 Colorado 60. Oklahoma 59 Creighton 69. iNdiana ST. 64 DePaul 65. Dayton 63 lllmois 89. Indiana 68 Iowa 74. Purdue 59 Kansas S:. 82. Oklahoma St. 72 KentS: 83. Toledo 73 Loyola Chicago 105 Detroit 97 
Miami, Ohio 69, E. Michigan 67 Michigan 68, Wisconsin 59 Minn~sota 72. Northwestern 55 Missouri 88. Kansas 65 Nebraska 69, Iowa St. 66 Ohio St. 71. Michi(lan St. 59 
. S_OUTHWEST 
Baylor 79, Texas Ttlch 51) Houston 90, Arkansas 84, 3 OT Southern Methodist 76, Texas Christian 
57 Texas A&f..l 55, R!ce 53 Texas-Arlington /2, Arkansas St. 64 Texas-EI Paso 79, Colorado St. 66 
FAR WEST 

Ari-z6na St. 88. Oregon 65 Brigham Young 83. Utah 82 Fresno St. 71. Cal-Santa Barbara 64 Hawaii 79, San Diego St. 69 Long Beach St. 82. Pacific 64 New Mex1co St. 103. Tulsa 91 Oregon St. 73. Arizona 63 Por:land 69. Seattle 62 Sart Francisco 92, Pepperdine 79 UCLA 91. Southern Cal 64 Utah S:. 69. Fullerton St. 67 Wash1nton 68. California 66 Washinton St. 93. Stanford 75 Weber S:. 94. Montana St. 83 Wyoming 68. New Mexico 54 
EAST Clemson 90, Maryland 81 Georgia Tech 62, Virginia 61 lana 67, Army 54 LaSalle 95, American 85 St. John's (N.Y.) 78, Fordham 60 Villanova 79, Massachusetts 64 Wake Forest 69 Jackson.ville 56 
SOUTHEAST Florida State 77, Cincinnati 74 Kentucky 72. Alabama 63 
Hockey 
Sunday 

MINNESOTA DULUTH 4 1 4. 9 NOTRE DAME 1 1 6-8 Scoring 
FIRST PERIOD -UMD 1 Carlston (Fishback, Moore) ppg, 3.13. ND -1 Brown (Colla~d. Logan) 14:16. UMD -2 D11Grio (Lempe, Madson) 15:15. UMD-3 KJiyk (Oieksuk) 16:40. UMD-4 Oleksuk (~:ulyk, Madson) shg, 18:17. 
SECOND PERIOD -UMD -5 Crab n (unasst.) 15 27. ND -2 Bjo.k (t1umphreys, Meredith) 18:43. 
THIRD PERIOD -ND -3 Pouli:l (Brownschidle. Mereditt) ppg, 0:44. UMD-6 Conroy (Krensing, Corbin) 3:17. UMD -7 Carlston (Fishback, Madsonl 7.02. UMD-8DeGrio(unasst.)8:46 ND -4 Collard (Weltzin, Logan) 8:55. ND-5 Brown (Logan. Collard) 9:49. ND -6 Higgins (Bjork, Brownschidie) 10:32. UMD -9 Hendrickson (Lempe, DeGrio) 12 13. Np -7 Meredith (Brownschidle, Fr1edmann) ppg, 19:21. ND-8 Michalek (Friedmann, Weltzin) 19:41. 
Saves -Perky I (U MD) 46, Laurion (:--JD-2u m1nutes) 5. McNamara (ND-39 mmutes) 20. 
Penalties-U MD 7 for 14 minutes. N D 4 ~or 8 minu:es. At:endance '3,013. 
Saturday 

MINNESOTA DULUTH  2 2 3. 7  
NOTRE DAME  2 1 3-6  
Scoring  
FIRST  PERIOD  -ND  1 Michalek  

(Mer~dith, Friedmann) 2:32 N':' -2 Logan (Meredith, Brownschidle; ppg, 
6:23. UMD -1 Fishback (Hendrickson) 
10:28. UMD -2 Carlston (Fishback, Madson) 15:07. 
SECOND PERIOD -UMD -3 Lempe (Regan, Perkl) 0:39. UMD -4 Conroy (Graven, Krensing) 3:15. ND -3 Perry (Poulin, Rothstein) 18:25. • 
THIRD PERIOD -UMD -5 Lodahl (Lempe. Regan) 0:53. IJMD-6 Oleksuk (Kulyk, Santori) 1:50. ND -4 Meredith (B~ownschidle, Friedmann) ppg, 3:58. N D -5 Perry (Schmidt, Poulin) 6:40. UMD -7 Moore (Lempe, Carlston) ppg, 8:53. N D ­6 Brownschidle (Humphreys) 15:59. 
Saves -Perky! (UMD) 26, McNamara (ND-59 minutes) 28. Penalties-UMD 7 for 14 minutes. ND 5 for 10 minutes. Attendance -3,427. 
Tennis 

NOTRE DAME 8, SOUTH BEND RACQUET CLUB 4 Singles 
No.1 -Chris Bussert 1SBRC) del. Mark McMahon. 6-2, 6-3. No. 2-Carlton Harris (ND) del. L~ke Grossman. 6-4. 7-6. 
No. 3-Herb Hopwood iND) del. Roger Smith, 6-1. 5-7, 6-1. No. 4-Steve True (SBRC) def. Mark Hoyer, 1)-4, E< N··. 5-Tom Hamell (tJI1) del Dan Bigg,6-3, 6-1. 
No. 6-Tom Robisun ClnJ •!ef. Paul Kosciels,;i, 6-1. 6-7. 6-~­No. 7-Jim Falvey (N::') del Mike Krow, 6-2. 6-2. No. 8-Tim Noonao1 tN D) def. Vaugt>n Smith. 6-1. 6-1. 
Doubles 

No. 1-Harris/Hopwood (ND) del. Gross­man/Smith. 6-1,6-2. No. 2-Bussert/True (SBRC) del. Mc­Mahan/Hoyer. 6-4, 7-6. No. 3-Bigg/Koscielski (SBRC) def_ Hart­zeii/Robison, 6-1. 6-7, 7-6. No. 4-Falvey/Noonan (ND) del. Krrr:i/ Smith; 6-4 5-7. 7-6. 
Olympics 
HEIDEN WINS AGAIN 
MILWAUKEE (AP)-Speed skating superstar Eric Heiden, priming for his assault on five gold medals in the Winter Olympics a!'Lake Placid starting later this week, added an unprecedented fourth World Sprint Char.lpionship to his jammed trophy case yesten.iay. 
· Heiden, of Madison. Wis., won both men's events in this world class meet, streaking to the 500-meter championship in 38.61 seconds and then winning at 1,000 meters in one minute, 17.98 seconds. 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. ~II 
classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the ma1l.
Classifieds 
WANTED: need ride to Denver over Need 2 GA and 2 student DePaul Interested in Ministry and a Career in Bake big bad Barbara Balisteri brown­
spring break. Will share driving and tickets---Call Larry Hau--1049.
Notices 
the Church???? The channel program ies before she broaches the battle of 
expenses. Call Dave 277-1742. might be for you. The director will be the bulge and experiences an appall­
fyping--experienced m dissertations. Will pay mega$$$ for 2 GA Marquette
----------------
here Feb. 11-15. Call Volunteer ing depth and breadth of her blue­
essays, term papers. Selectric type­Will pay 'student. experienced in tix. Karen 6798. Services, 7308, to make an appoint­berry broc.d behind. Call Barb at 5350writer. 232-5715. Fortran programming to install iWith Ment. if you want the recipe (or the.numbel
minor modifications) existing Fortran Need tickets to the Marquette game on for dial-a-"a'<e)HEY CALIFORNIANS!!! We need program into Notre Dame computer. the 24th of Feb. Mike 8501. 
TUTOR NI:.EDED: help high school ~ove. Miss Piggymore delegates for the Mock Conven­Call 3572. student pre;me for SAT test. tion. Call Paul at 3402. DAYTON GA'S
-----~----------Cardinal 0' Hara,
Overseas Jobs--Summer/year round. DAYTON GA'S JAZZ LIVES AT WSND If you like Give the man a rest He won't getCUSTOM MADE RESUMES from the Europe. S. America. Australia, Asia. DAYTON GA'S Jazz and want to get involved with another until April ?1st. (Neither wil' Word Processors get results! The etc. All fields. $500-1,200 monthly. DAYTON GA'S radio, call Tim 7820. you.) Congrats!
one-time charge of $15 includes pro­Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free DAYTON GA'S Mrs. Liebowitz
fessional styling, wording your re­info write IJC Box 52-14 Corona Del I need'am--Mick 8212. Like to ski? So do we, but we're stuck sume just right, and typing to make it Mar. CA 92625. ·on the flats of ND. If you provide the I have scoop :m Mary Jane Sylvia Ilook its best. Write today: The Word Need 3 Marquette GA tix. Any price. transpo. we'll provide$$ and scintillat­
Processors. 601 N. Walnut, Blooming­Anyone interested in cooking classes Call Dave 1133. ing company. Weeknights or week­Miriam. ton. IN 47401. phone "Patsy's Pantry" 232-5640. .ends. Call Erin at 1264 or Lynne at Manischiewitz is a good vintage.
Desperately need Marquette GA tix 
1254. Congrats!
Spring Br11k Daytona Trip--bus trans­your price. Call Sean 3114. 
Ma

portation with hotel S199. Drive and Julian and Dan.
For Sale 
save only S99. Big Bucks tor Marquette tix. Call The airwaves will never recover from ATTN: Anyone Interested In working
Drive and save to Ft. Lauderdale S109 Mary or Anne 6751. this extraordinary event. With just an the FLOYD R. TURBO campaign
1969 Delta 88 Oldsmobile. Runs well.
only 6 rooms left 6 days-5 nights for your voices, the House of Liebowitz 
for president please ca11._8n6. Ask for
Asking $325.00 call 272-9007 after 5
Information call Ken 283-1387. pm. Need 2 GA tix for Marquette--Call may come tumbling down. Congrats!! Floyd, of course.
John 1840. 
Tari FLASH: photographic equipment for 
Need 2 Marquette GA's. Will pay 
AL-ANON SUPPORT GROUP Stop playing with C'lltholic money andsale--fantastic bargains! I Cameras. 
well. Call George at 8543 from 10:00
Lost&Found Sam, 
-8:00pm every Sunday meet me in Brooklyn with the kids.
lenses. Call 232-4129. 
to 12:00 p.m. 
-Saint Mary's Student Gov't Office. Sara lost: My glasses. Highly attractive ---------------­
'79 Jeep CJ-7 Renegade, PS. AT. .
1need one Marquette GA Chris 8545.
SMC sophomore cannot see herself in Mark R., Angelo.
closed body, excellent condition. Near
the mirror. They had a gold frame and In response to your recent misguided It's Albert the fourth, not lliorman tlle
wholesale price 272-6116. 
square tinted lenses. If you have seen Need either two DePaul or two theological quips, the Bishop of Hippo first. Congrats, your hollness-uhm­
Marquette GA's, Big bucks. Karl
them. please call Colleen at 4-1-4374. "Hey Iran" defiance !-shirts available and myself fraternally forgive you. Angelo.
1461.
she'll make it worth your while. $5 phone 1866 for details. Bob B. Sara (a respectable name) 
Lost: Blue backpack. Missing fro Help! My brother is leading a band of Love is: A Singing Valentine sponsor­Mom:
Accoustic research 2AX speakers, 
warriors down for the Marquette
North Dining Hall (lunch) Feb. 4. ed by ND Chorale-Glee Club. By Happy ??th birthday!
3-way. one year old. $200 pair. 
game. 1need many tlx. Call 8300.
Frantic!! Need contents! Call 288-phone: $.50, at door: $2 at supper. Love.
4-1-5187.
5465. No questions asked. ND-SMC dining halls February 11-12. Joe
Help! Need 2 student or 'GA tix to 
P.S. Marty: Congrats on the 3.29! IFor Sale: Pair KLH 103 Stereo 
DePaul. Call Kathy 6793 or Mike 3462.
Lost between Stepan parking lot and Speakers. Still under warranty. Call Rabbi, knew you could do it! 
Grace hall. apair of glasses in a brown 1 imagine you're already buying the
John 233-6370. 
Big Bucks: 2 or 4 DePaul tix. Call
or green case. Reward offered. Please kosher kitchenware, what with $20,000 ZETO ...to see him is to retch.
(312) 372-7399 collact, 9-5. Ask for
call Mike 1782. for squealing. Congrats!
USED BOOKS at discount prices. The Alex Devience. 
Sara Need ride to Green Bay WI Friday
Ia Iest in new books. Frequent sales on 
LOST: One gold bracelet. Square with February 15. Call 4-1·4427.
new and used titles in categories from 
Need student and GA tix for DePaul
a clasp. Has engravings. Katie SMC Anyone interested in contributing
flhilosophy to popular fiction. Visit 
b-ball game. Paul 3121.
4519. some photos for a possible college life Is he not ugly? He is ZETO. ZETO for
Pandora's Books. 937 S. Bend Ave .. 
"Midpoint" should contact Kathy UMOC '80.
between Eddy and Notre Dame. 
Need 2 GA Marquette tix for Jr.
LOST: ring, if you found ND ring in Connelly at 7471 or John MrGrat~ at 
ParP.r.is weekend. Good $$$. Call
Hayes-Healy. please see lost and 3106. Singing Valentines on sale now at
Students ...neea an inexpensive sofa. 
3437 or 8436. Need many DePaul GA
found or me at 005 Ficher. 283-1877. ND·SM C dining halls. Sponsored by
love seat. kitchen set. chair, table, tix, too. 
Dear Barb Brock, St. Mary's Chamber Singers.
lamp at cost? The Inside Outlet has new furniture at super savings. 5
LOST $$$offered for return of books Anniversaries are great. and so are 
Desperately need 3 Marquette tix.
in blue backpack taken from bookstore you. Happy Valentine's Day, I'm in Beware. the All a rita women cometh.
percent discount. 2122 S. Bend Ave. 
Please call Bill at 8288.
2-7-80. Lisa 1330. love with you II! ND will never be the same.
?77-777? 
See ya soon. 

Have you been to the Commonwealth
Found: Green plaid scarf in Bus. M-W-F 10:00-3:00 Jake SENIORS-FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO
yet?
Bldq 8785. Tues 1:00-5:00 MISSED THE WORKSHOP THAT Thurs 1:00-8:00 His holiness, Mr. Director Bruce. COULD LAND YOU A $1,000.000 10:00-4:00 Hats are in. Especially in Brouklyn. JOB--here's another chance. Another 
Try us oefore you buy. 
Personals Ex-almost Ass'! director resume workshop is being held Feb. 12
For Rent Sat 
at 6 p m. in the Student Affairs Irving. Conference Room. Career Develop­We rent dependable cars from $7.95 a Steve Cashman-The Russians sell at 100 percent profit, ment Center. SMC.
Tickets
day and 7 cents a mile. Ugly Duckling Thanks for the great time last weeki not 50 percent. Besides, a million is 
Here's looking at you kid!
Rent-A-Car. 921 E. Jefferson Blvd. TOO much. Congrats. Hey Gustave.
Help! We are in dire straits. We need
Mish. IN 255-2323. Little Goose Ma What have you been up to lately. Long
many GA of student tix for Marquette time, no see. Feel like going skiing
game. Call Dan 8998 or Mike 3406. --------~------­
ATTENTION! Men of Notre Dame: BFP--Will you be my valentine?? soon????? (You promised!)Susan Maus, that intimidating Florid­Your peculiar little quirk 
Wanted $$$$ Desperately need 2 Daytona PAL.
ian female, is now a mature woman of
tickets $$$ Ron 8479. ILYMB
20 and will be available for birthday Jane,Roommate wanted. Share house with favors throughout the day and night. When you're out and about, and away M!-! 
Must have Dayton (5) and
private large bedroom and bath. from your home, who takes your place WANTED.DEAD OR ALIVE
tix! 1! Please help. 41-5710.
Rec-room with pool table, laundry Happy (belated) birthday wishes to on that Golden Dome? 
The strange loJking fellow who eats facilities, HBO, kitchen privileges. Rick Burroughs next year, eat the Jer Bear
Need GA tix to any home b-ball game. line tape. Description: 6" high. long
ND Ave. Busline. $150 month. cake.OK? 
233·5349 evenings. Paul 3121. Tony Masi, hair. wild eyes and a voracious Happy birthday Moose! 1 scream. you scream, we all scream appetite.
Helpl Need ride to Chicago this Need 4 or 5 Marquette tix!! Call Gigi Love, Your Roomies for ice cream! (The next cone is on Anyone finding him should callFriday. Call Bill at 1188. at 6868. me.) 
azoo to report his apprehension.
Sharon Convey. K~tie Ride or riders neede.d to Fordham Need 4 GA's to N. C. State or Do you miss me??? ­game. Will leave on Feb. 13th--call AI Marquette. Will pay good $$$. Call Patti get well! Lunch lines miss you.
"Billiam is Great"
Joe at 3439.
3625. 
Congratulations Paul your Zahm phone friends 

t I ..-·~ "' ' " . ' " J '~ :' ~'I 
i.>t' h·_ ,] ?I' 1 ';; 

Monday, February 11, 1980-page 12 
In second-half surge 
Wolfpack rallies over ND 
Bv .\1ark Perry ketball this year. He does rime, working for the high!)'purls Edito; things well all over the court­percentage shots. I think we he'.~ just a >ery complete play­lulled them to sleep a couple of 
l'r:11ling 22-20 at halftime of er. tJrnes. and when we saw the ~.11urda1 ·,game ..1ga111St Nlltre While Whirney and the rest upp~>nunJty, we wok ir." Danlt' at the .-\CC, :--Jorrh Car­of rhe Wolfpack we[( burning Freshman Sidney Lowe came Idi 1.1 :;late cua,h Norm Sloan the nets in the second half, c>ff the be! ch to help State, , ...... "'1 liHlt-nng why his leading Nut re Dame faced one of irs -;wring 10 ot his 13 points in the 
.. •liL'r. Hawkne Whuney, W<JS wurst shoming slumps of the <.;ccond half. including some ''·''Ill).! trouhlt· gelling starred. ...cason. The Irish only shot 37 important free throws in the 
\· ..,, ... ,_tnl lll:tch Monte Towe, a perLellt from the field, and also la,;t few minutes. Kenny 1n.·nrl>n •>f Sloan·.., 1'17-l NCAA encuu11ter<:d troubles at the free Ma11hews added 11 points, , :l.tlllJliiiJlship ream. pmv1ded throw line (1) for 24). mo,;tly on long range jump .... llll<· ''1111foJ trng words. ":\s a ream we didn 'r shoot -..hots. 
\l1lllll' s:ard he dwught well." commemed Irish co~ch Fur the Irish. Kelly Tripucka ll.r11l 11 <·Jn 1>.~1 tllt're a :ittle Digger Phelps. "We didn't hit SLured 17 foints, 13 in the 11 'he Si .tn related, '·and the perimeter shots we needed, second hal while trying ro :·. •u;..:'•: !J,· Wllttld Jo,lst·n u_p and we had some shMs that weren' r engineer a 1\'otre Dame come­
'1. ·' < .1 grt·ar "t'll>lld halt. He rhe nghr ones, and we rushed back effort wh1ch fell short. 
1.1 ... 1rgl11. ·· •>ur shots. But ac the er:d we J{ich Branning and Orlando 
\II \\'lr 'nn d1cl wa.., hit six of had to cake anything thm we Woolricige added 1.3 and 12 -.<.11 ... I!.!J-., fn•m the field to l·uuld get on the glass." poinr_s.. respectively. . j· •· < .1 II'IIJd ~hullting exhibi­··1 chink our tim1ng was off in · · I h1s wa~ obvwuslv a b1g '' ·1 h, 1h,-Wolfpack (I') for 20. a lor of situations,·· Phelps w1n fill· us,·· Sloan added. "It ,.: ~'> J11TLt'JII) and le..1d State to addnl, "because we haven t doesn't help us in the confer­.t :, ,.)) up-..ct Will over th.:-Irish. been pla~·ing together. Now eme, but it sure helps us 
11,1 ... g.rmt· meant a lor to me 1 hat we have the whole team psychologically and with our :'' , ..... n.dh ... -...ud Whitney, who ''al k, i· wuuld be nice to get uwn confidence in the way fi,)I-..Jl(',J WJ(iJ ,I game high 23 hack the tntensity that we had we've been playing." 
1'·•1111..,. ·\~'c pla~-ed Notre uut at UCLA three weeks ago." GAM~ NOTES-This was D.•:nv twJ,t· hdi•n·. and I had The Irish led for most of the Nut rc Dame's first loss at home 1111. h,t,~ g.tlllt'>-. Be~ng a senior tir... r h.tlf. :·JUt c->Uldn't rake -..1nce last February 11, when .tJhl il'.t\ ing afrer this year it advanta:·e 1>f some chances to [mnti.'ftued on page 10]i'n·l-.. real g•Hld. ·· budd ,.,; 'th: .r lead, turning the 
\\ 1th :--..!1•tn· Dame leading. ball over ten ti:nes <Jnd missing i2-2". With 12:20 left in the S<lrne important free throws. hall. Whune1 caught fire, scor­Then, with Notre Dame lead­
Marquette thumps Blue Devils
•ng ...,.\Til srra1ghr points to give Ing, 2H-22, and 17 minutes left, "''a11 a \)-52 kad that would Statl' started to slow down its JJo~t lw sniou-.,Jy challenged for offt-nse, and outscored the Irish MADISON, Wis. (AP) -H0-77 co!Lge basketball victory about midway through the sec­J:•e n·st of rhe game. 15-·1 to take the lead for good. ' Oliver Lee scored thret: of his 24 ovn lOth-ranked Duke Sunday ond half, battled back and 
· 'll.twkeyt· was superb,'' "We ran our motion of­poims in the final minute as 111 a nationally-televised game. knnrred the score ar 7'5-75 on a Slo~:ur pr:used. "[haven't seen fense,·· Whitney said, "spread­:\.1arquerte squandered a 19-la~·up by Vince Taylor.
The Blue Devils, who drop­
a ht·trt-r pla~·er in college bas-mg them out and taking our pomr lead, then hung on for an Afrer running down the
ped their third consecutive clock, Lee hit on a 10-footergame. almost pulled it out as wu h 42 seconds remaming,6-ll>ot-11 Mike Gminski rallied giving the Warriors a 77-7517 P''ints in the last 14 minutes advantage. Gminski was foul­alter going scoreless earlier. 
nl, bur missed in a one-and-one
Duluth dumps Irish icers 
Duke, which won its first 13 SitUatiOn. 
games of rhe season, slips to After a layup by Taylor made 17-6 while Marquette improves
hy .'vlichael Olenik aftn yesterday's 9-8 setback Perk!, however, shut the door it 77-77, Lee was fouled and 
it~ record to 13-7 with its third
Sports Wnter summed up most observers' on the Irish admirably well, cashed in on one of two free 
consecutive victory.

feelings fairly well. "Duluth making 46 saves in the game. 1hrows to give the Warriors aIt has been said many rimes 
played very well," he said. Throughout the contest, the Duke was led by Gene Banks 7H-77 lead. Michael Wilson'sby knowledgable hockey enthu­
''They showed good· quickness Irish found themselves in deep with 2-l points. layup_ gave Marquette its finalsia-.;rs that winning teams· are holes, trailing by scores of 5-1 The Blue Devils, down 64-45 margm.
up front and always seemed toalmost always buil, around the he a step ahead of us.'' in the second period and 8-3
dektbe. While Notre Dame's 
with 11: 14 remaining in the
blut:line corps has performed Although Bulldog goaltender 
game. Although they scored
well throughout this s~ason, 13ill Perkl came up with some 
five of the game's last six goals, 
ND, SMCfencers breeze
that statement rang clear in the outstanding saves, the Irish just 
it seemed it was to be a fruitless
mimb of all who were on hand d1dn · r capitaltze on enough of 
effort as Duluth continually
at the ACC this past weekend 1heir numerous opportunities. Ct>ach Mike DeCicco's Notre W11n its fifth march without a
cashed in on Notre Dame's 
:ts the Irish fell twice to an · We did some lousy shooting," Dame fencing ream upped its deft-at by downing Milwaukee
mental mistakes. 

.tggresstve and well-coached remarked Smith, "and that's season record to 9-0 and its Area Tech, 11-5. Senior iz
The absence of defensemen T 
\linllt:sota-Duluth hockey team. what happens when you try to winning streak to 114 Saturday Bathon led the "Way by winning
ly·ontinued on page 10] The
(..,aclr Lefty Smith's remarks be cure instead of firing away.'' by posrmg three victories'. all of four bouts, while captain Irish defeated Milwaukee Area Dmlee Carney and sophomore Tech, Detroit, and host Chi­Marn·lla Lansford were each cago, all by 22-5 scores. 5-I Foil captain Andy Bonk, Saint Mary's fencing squad sabre captain Chris Lyons, and wun irs third straight meer sabre man Greg Armi each Saturday, defeating Milwaukee posted 6-0 ledgers on the Area Tech, 10-6. Senior captain weekend. Bonk, last year's. Sharon Moore won all of four NCAA foil champion. and Ly­bouts, while Ann Hendrick ons are each 18-1 on the season. went 3-1. The Belles are now Notre Dame's women's team 3-1 on the year. 
Swimmers split dual meets 
by Michael Ortman night before on the Rockets and Sports Wn'ter chalked up a 63-50 win. "I thought we The Wayne State meet turn­
that really 
ed our to be a battle of coaching
swam well. It's just that they 
strategies between Stark andoneswam out of their minds.'' 
of his former swimmers, SteveNotre Dame swimming coach Sauer, with each coach trying coDennis Stark was quite right second guess the other. Withwhen he spoke ofFriday night's the three event each
meet with rival Wayne State as limit on 
swimmer, the coaches had toit took three varsity records for decide when to swim theirthe host Tatters to bear the stronger swimmers and when to
Irish, 68-4 5. 
save them.

The Irish had barely dried off "They (Wayne) sent all theirwhen they were back in the 
big guns ar us early,'' saidwater again on. Saturday after­
junior captain John Komara.

noon in Toledo where thev took out their frustrations from the [continued on page IOJ 





