..--------------~-----------------------~------~ ~-~---------­
• • • All that jazz -page 7 

VOL. XV, NO. 46 
an independent srudem newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Iranian Parliament ponders hostage issue in secret 
by The Associated Press 
I ran's Parliament discussed the 
U.S. hostages in secret for four hours yesterday and may move toward a vote today. A deputy said new conditions for release of the captives have been decided. 

Sources close to the talks said that after a heated debate in which several Parliament mem­bers stalked out, the members decided to hold an open session · today and vote on proposed 
conditions. 
But deputy Hussein 
Hashemian, reached by tele­
phone from Beirut, Lebanon, 
said, "We may have an open 
session or a closed session-it is 
not for sure," and that debate 
may continue for six days. 
Some members of the 228 seat 
Parliament or Majlis expressed 
guarded optimism over the pos­
sibility of a final decision today. 
"The Majlis generally favored 
solving the issue in a way accep­
table to both parties," Hossein 
Ali Rahmani, a Kurdish deputy 
known to be moderate on the 
hostage issue, told reporters. "I 
think there is a 70 percent like­
lihood of a decision Thursday," 
Rahmani said. 
Asked if new conditions had 
been added, deputy Hashemian 
said, "Yes, but we will make 
them public later." Several issues 
still were unsettled, but, "The 
condition of the shah's wealth 
remains," he said. "We are 
debating on the apology." 
Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the 80-year-old Iranian leader, has said the U.S. government should apologize for its support of the late shah's regime. But in September, when he set out in general terms Iran's demands, the apology was omitted. 
His demands included return of the shah's fortune, a pledge of non-interference in Iran's affairs, withdrawal of lawsuits against Iran and release ofIranian assets frozen in U.S. banks. Khomeini, who holds the greatest power in his country, has charged the Majlis with responsibility for the hostages' fate. 
Many deputies have suggested that additional terms may be added. But Rahmani, pressed by reporters, said the committee's recommendations basically fol­low Khomeini's. 
Some members suggested Iran be given three hours of U.S. television time to air its griev­ances, but this was not greeted favorably, the deputy said. A West German network said Tuesday that such a demand was being made, and an Iranian spokesman denied it unequivo­cally. 
Some members walked out of yesterday's session as it became apparent the issue was heading back for public scrutiny, the sources said. It was believed those members favored dragging out the. debate behind closed doors. Previous closed sessions were held Sunday and Monday. 
The committee was prepanng to meet again in advance of today's session. Their report was described as "very brief" by those who viewed it. 
There are still a number of members who favor spy trials for the hostages_ and who do not want the matter resolved in the near future. 

VATICAN CITY (AP)­process almost 5,000 petitions 
Pope John Paul II, ending a two­on file from priests seeking year heeze on granting dispen­release from their vows, Vatican sation from vows of priestly sources said. 
celibacy, has issued new guide­The papal directivt;. is in a letter lines to allow Roman Catholic to bishops and heads of religious priests to leave the priesthood orders from Cardinal Franjo and marry but still remain in the Seper, head of the Sacred church. Congregation for the Doctrine 
The decision removes a major of the Faith, formerly called the source of tension in the church Holy Office. created by the pope's refusal to An En~lish copy of the letter, 
Over summer 


Capernaum Program digs into Israel's past 
EDITOR'S NOTE: This is the first ofa two part story on the Capernaum Volunteer Program. Tomorrow's segment wtll tonk at a typical day at the archaeologkal dig. 
by Toni Aanstoos 

Last summer five undergraduates, one seminarian, one graduate student, one English professor, and one home-maker participated in the first of five University of Notre Dame-Saint Mary's College Capernaum Volunteer Program, an archaeological expedition in the unexplored Jewish city of Capernaum. 
Dr. Joseph Blenkinsopp (Professor of Theology at Nofre Dame), who headed the program, explajned its conception, "I've spent many years studying Israeli archaeology. While on another dig with Vassilios Tzaferis (a renowned archaeologist) of the Israeli Depa~tment of Antiquities, we thought up the idea for the program. We (at NO) offer a dultorate program in Christianity, but we wanted to generate more interest in Judaism. And nothing is better than learning from first hand experienct: how Jews lived in their country." 

Associate Director Dr. Herold Weiss (Professor of Religious Studies at Saint Mary's) expounded further upon the important relationship between archaeology and theology, "The scriptures concern the Biblical world and its belief; archaeology is a tool to learn about this ancient world." 
Capernaum, the "town ofJesus", was chosen as the site to explore because of its important role in the life ofChrist Also, previous digs led Tzaferis, director of the excavation, to believe the site would prove fruitful in understanding early Christian life since he ascertained the city had been continuously occupied until the ninth century AD. 
In fact, the mound where the site is located (owned by the Greek Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem) might be the very spot of a synagogue in which Jesus taught. But Blenkinsopp was quick to state, "Archaeologists aren't looking for one specific thing, we're trying to understand the past." 
Weiss, also clarifying the common misconception ofarchaeology, added, "We have no vision ofanything particular we're trying to find. There are no guarantees in archaeology. Ifwe don't find a synagogue, we haven't failed. Our purpose is to reconstruct the past." 
The volunteer program is open to anyone; the only restriction is 
the limited number allowed. This year's program ran from May 14 to June 20. To prepare the 12 volunteers for the expedition, three or four orientation meetings were conducted prior to their departure. Lectures on basic archaeological techniques, historical background of the area, and geological facts were presented. Slides of the actual site and films of the area were shown to help the participants visualize their "home" for the next five weeks. 
Blenkinsopp and Weiss also supplied the volunteers with a reading list to supplement their archaeological knowledge. "The more you know, the more you enjoy the program," explained Blenkinsopp. Detailed instructions were given to the participants on what to bring and on what must be done before the trip (i.e. passports and shots). 
The volunteers were housed in a youth hostel in Kare-Deshe (three kilometers from the site). All meals were provided for the entire program. 
The cost was $500 for housing, food, transportation while in Israel, and archaeological tours. The airfare to and from Israel was $945. The directors can not quote a total price for this next season because of the fluctuating airfare. · 
TIIURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1980 
written in Latin and dated Oct. 14, was made available to The Associated Press yesterday. 
The celibacy rule is believed to be a main factor in the sharp increase in the defections of Roman Catholic priests in recent years. 
There are about 4,000 de­fections a year, or 1 percent of the world's 400,000 priests. This is double the rate during the pontificate of Pope Paul VI. In the United States, almost 8,000 priests are said to have left the priesthood since 1965. 
The letter said the guidelines result from a study ordered by the pope "to determine the causes involved and to find a suitable solution" to the increas­ing requests for release from celibacy vows. 
The guidelines appear to be "more precise and somewhat more relaxed than the ones used by Pope Paul VI," said a Rome­based cleric who asked not to be identified. 
Reaffirming the church's 1500-year-old ban on priestly marriage, the letter stated: "It is important that the priests give an 
example  of  fidelity  in  their  
commitment  to  their vocation  
until death."  

The letter said the Vatican will now consider dispensations ifthe petitions fall under any of these categories: 
"Priests who have left priestly life for a long period of time." The cleric explained that this refers to priests who left the priesthood and married outside the church and who may have children. 
In addition, the letter said the Vatican will retain its practice of granting dispensation on grounds of physical and mental ailments. 
A mysterious exolosion rocked central Peking's crowded main railroad station yesterday and witnesses said about 20 perso~;~s were killed or wounde& Most officials refused to comment, but one called it an "accident." A foreign ministry spokesman said authorities were investigating the 6:15 
p.m. ":;tccident" but gave no details. Reports ofcasualties could not be immediately confirmed. A steady stream ofambulances left the station and sped down Peking's main Chang An Boulevard, about a block away from the station. An unconfirmed report going through the crowd said the explosion was caused by~a bundle of firecrackers. A series of serious fireworks explosions on trains and in railway stations earlier this year prompted a crackdown at the time on persons carrying such items. AP 

Chrvsler Co~. lost $490 million in the third quarter of the year, the No. 3 automaker reported yesterday, compared to a $461 million loss during the same period last year. The loss brought total red ink for the auto industry's Big Three companies to $1.65 billion for the July/September period. Genera!MotorsCorp.lost$567 millionandForclMotor Co. lost $595 million and brought the car company's total deficits to $2.54 billion over the past seven q4arters. 
America's Voyae:er 1 spacecraft, rapidly 
closing in for an encounter with ~turn, has found two new moons and confirmed three others circling the ringed planet, scientists said yesterday. The robot craft, 12.8 million miles from Saturn and clos;ng at 45,000 mph, pinpointed the new moons-the planet's 13th and 14th-in pictures taken last weekend, Dr. Bradford Smith said at a National Aeronautics and Space A-dministration news briefing. The newly discovered satellites, as yet unnamed, are orbiting close to each other outside the most visible rings ofSaturnand take about 15 hours to circle the planet, Smith said. One satellite is about 185 miles in diameter and moving in an orbit about 50,800 miles above the giant planet's clouds. The other, approximately 155 miles in diameter, is in an orbit 49,300 miles above the clouds. "These measurements are very approximate because the moons' images are just dots oflight on the pictures, but as we get more data we will refine the numbers," said Smith, head of the mission's imaging team. The spacecraft also confirmed three satellites previously discovered by Earth-based observations, including a small one that shares the same orbit as the moon Dione, Smith said: -AP 

Thursday, October 30, 1980-page 2 
Inside Thursday 

May the best man try ••• 
We do not know ofany other election in which there has been such agonizing over the lack of choice in a presidential race than in this one. 
Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan and]ohn Anderson have dissatisfied a surprisingly large portion ofthe voters, butas this Tuesday nears, people are taking a deep sigh and making the final decision. 
The parallels between 1980 and 1968 are not insignificant. America is again disgusted with its Democratic leadership, and the increasingly conservative atmosphere is overwhelmingly conducive to a successful Republican rebirth. The USSR has again invaded a neighboring nation shortly before our election, making hawkish Republicans look even better. Fighting within the Democratic. party has again been fierce. As Richard Nixon did in 1968, Ronald Reagan should probably win on Tuesday-it's all in his favor. 
However, Ronald Reagan is not fit to be president of this country. His simplistic cures for the nation's extremely complex ills have appealed to an alarmingly large amount ofpeople, but those who have examined these solutions in a realistic light have found them wanting. Jimmy Carter at least knows that there are no easy solutions, but he 
has been unable to  workable ones of his  
own.  
Ronald Reagan does not  that times have  

charged -things that worked in the past will not work 20-30 years later. Dwight Eisenhower would not be a good president for the 1980s. 
The U.S. can no longer dominate the world geopolitically as it once did; other nations will not allow it, and we cannot achieve it. Why Reagan feels the Soviet Union-would accept military inferiority when it is fully prepared to maintain superiority escapes us. The concept of SALT III (especially without SALT II) is a joke. 
Reagan's government-slashing fiscal, proposals are commendable, but much easier said than done. He should know that from his experience in California. His tax 'cut proposals are untried and unproven in an economic situation as volatile as today's (especially with increased defense spend­ing), and its basic premise of equal cuts for all income brackets is patently unfaiT. As John Anderson said last week in Washington, it would be "cake for the rich, crumbs for the middle class, and an empty plate for the poor." 
So for many, the choice has become this: 1) vote for Carter, simply to keep Reagan from being elected, or 2) vote for the best man in the race, Anderson, and risk throwing the election to Reagan. However, the record ofJimmy Carter has kept even this from being a choice. 



Tom Jackman 
Executive News Editor 
It is true that Carter is a wiser m.an after 3 1/2 years; he knows what he has done wrong, but he has not learned from his mistakes. There is no reason for us to believe that he will regain the world-wide prestige and respect which the U.S. has lost. There is no reason to expect that he will develop a coherent plan to attack inflation-he still hasn't. There is no reason to expect his policies, either foreign or domestic, to become more consistent. He has flip-flopped evep more in this campaign than ever before. The idea of returning this man to office is anathema to us. 
That leaves us with John Anderson. His pragmatic, centrist ifyou will, approach combines a moderated conservativism with a realistic liberalism, and makes him by far the most preferable man in the race. The Observer outlined the assets of Anderson excellently in its en­dorsement Tuesday. But, many argue, Anderson cannot win, and voting for him is like voting for Reagan. · 
So what? The fact that we cannot vote for either Carter or Reagan is one good reason to vote for Anderson, but the charge that he cannot win is not germane. Anderson is caught in an absurd Catch­22 in the overly emphasized polls, and it will, unfortunately, probably lead to his defeat. 
This is typical: polls ask, "Who would you vote for in a three-man race?" Reagan leads Carter, Anderson way back. Then, "Who would you vote for if Anderson had a chance?" Here, John Anderson becomes not only a contender, but a possible victor. Respected polls taken earlier this month show thatAnderson/eads in both California and New York, as well as in several other key electoral states, when the latter question is asked. So people are saying, "Well, if everybody else is going to vote for him, I guess I will too," and, "if nobody else is, I won't either." This seems ridiculous to us. 
For those who are violently opposed to a Reagan victory at any cost, The New Republic pointed out in its endorsement of Anderson-"mathematically a vote for Anderson is at worst half a vote for Reagan (it takes one from Carter's tally, but doesn't add one to Reagan's), and even this only if you would otherwise pull the lever for Carter. A lot of people who won't make the psychological commitment to Anderson, out ofReaganangst, are going to end up not voting for president at all. This is a bigger help to Reagan, by reducing the small chance Anderson could win, and it needlessly denies you the message power of an Anderson vote." 
John Anderson has had the courage to run this campaign, based on what he deeply felt was right for this country. We should at least have the courage to vote for that. 
Thirty American prisoners pardoned by Fidel Castro on charges that included hijacking and drug-smuggling left Cuba yesterday and were flown to the United States, where they were greeted by tearful and jubilant friends and relatives. About 200 people waved U.S. flags and cheered as the charteredAir Florida . Boeing 7 3 7 arrived from Havana at Tamiami Airport in Miami. The Americans had been jailed for terms ranging from months up to 11 years. The Cuban government announced Oct. 13 that all U.S. prisoners would be released in response to appeals from congressmen, social organizations and relatives of the pri­soners. Diplomatic sources speculated the move was another in a series of conciliatory gestures by Cuba. In September, the Cubans abruptly closed Marie! harbor to "Freedom Flotilla" boats that had ferried more than 125,000 illegal refugees to the United States, and the Cubans also helped undercut a spate of hijackings by returning two 'suspects to the United States to face charges. -AP 
Sunny and a little warmertoday with 
highs in the low 50s. Mostly clear tonight and tomorrow. Lows tonight around 30. Highs tomorrow in the mid 50s.AP 
Derign Edttor. ........... Stephen Swonk De1ign Assistant.......... Tom O'Connor Dav/Night Technkians ..... Bruce Oakley · Pat-citv News Editor .......................... : Margie "a new woman" Brassil Copy Editor .. .............. Kathy Casey Feat11res Layout.... ....... Scoop Sullivan Sports Cop;i Editor ........ Beth Huffman Typists. ............... ..... Cindy Jones Sul\1 Sulentic Systems Techmdan ....... Chris "Albertolli ND Day Editor ............. Barb Brehle SMC Day Editor ....... Cathy Domanico Ad Design ................... Anne Fink Appearances comma g11eJt-~vpe ............ . Ryan "Bullwinkle" Ver Berkmoes Higgins comma john M.-typ<  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer ls8ubllshed by the students of Notre arne and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  





The new Bruce Springsteen album, "The River" has arrived at River City Records! 
Get $1.00 off any Springsteen album or tape with ND/SMC i.d. ­now until Nov. 1O! 
And register to win 2 good tickets to the sold out Nov. 20 Springsteen concert at Rosemont Horizon in Chicago. Enter at River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North. Call 277-4242 for further information. 
----r----------------­
The Observer Thursday, October 30, 1980-page 3 


Iran-Iraq conflict continues 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP)-Iran said yesterday it downed two of Iraq's long-range Soviet-built bombers deep inside its territory, one of them near Qom, the home of Iranian revolutionary leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. 
Iran claimed fierce ground and air attacks on Iraq including bombing of large refineries near Baghdad and Basra. Iraq denied Iranian reports of heavy damage at the Baghdad refinery. • 
Bitter fighting raged for the third consecutive day at a bridge southeast of the Iranian oil port of Khorramshahr and around Abadan, both sides said. The Iraqis are trying to cross the span and attack the northern fringe of Abadan 10 miles south. 
Iraq poured artillery fire into Abadan from a few miles east of the refinery city Tuesday and yesterday, an Iranian commun­ique said 
Iraq claimed Iranian aircraft raided civilian targets in Iraq but fled from anti-aircraft fire. Khomeini had said Tuesday that Iran would not attack Iraqi civilians. 
Tehran Radio reported a mass breakout by 1,500 prisoners held in Iraq, including some Iranian prisoners ofwar. But most of the escapees were from Iraq, Kuwait and Syria, the radio said. 
At the United Nations in New York, the Security Council held its seventh open meeting on the 38-day Persian Gulfconflict. The council has already asked both nations to stop fighting. 
The Iranian claims that heavy Iraqi bombers penetrated as far as Qom, 75 miles south of Tehran, and near Esfahan, 145 miles south ofQom, marked the first reported use of heavy bombers in the conflict. Qom is 
380 miles east ofthe nearest Iraqi air base. · 
Iraq reported aerial attacks on Iranian missile launchers on the southern front cost it two air­craft. 
It was not known ifKhomeini, who Tuesday rejected a cease­fire with Iraq during a speech delivered north ofTehran, was in Qom. The Iranian communique did not report an attack on the holy Shiite city. 
"All six crew members of the bombers were burnt in the fire of Allah's punishment," the Iranian communique said. 
Khomeini's Shiite sect rules Persian Iran. Iraq is Arab, and has a Shiite majority dominated by the socialist Sunni Moslem gov­ernment of President Saddam Hussein. 
Pippinholds production 
•

meettng 
There will be an important meeting for members of the PIPPIN production crew to­night at 6:30 in the Zahm basement. All those who have expressed interest in the show at previous meetings should be present. Interested new mem­be·rs are also welcome. Ques­
• tions should be directed to Paul Kosidowski at 8916. 
Auditions for PIPPIN will be held at 1:00 p.m., Sunday, Nov. 2 and 6:30 p.m. Monday, Nov. 3 in the LaFonune Ball­room. 
Iran claimed its planes inflicted heavy damage on refineries on the edge of the Iraqi capital and Basra, Iraq's southern port on the disputed Shatt al-Arab water­way that once divided the two nations. 

OC mass moved permanently 
The weekly off-campus stu­
dents' Mass has been permanent­
ly moved to Fisher Hall Chapel. 
Starting Nov. 2, the Mass will be in Fisher every Sunday at 7:00 ·p.m. for the rest ofthe semester. 
Come with your friends and 
help make this a successful off­
campus activity. 
Bruce Springsteen ­-Drama 

Elvis Costello ­ Taking liberties  $5.30  
Jackson ­ Beat Crazy  $5.30  
Forbert ­ little Stevie Orbit  $5.30  
alking Heads ­ Remain in light  $5.10  
+ everyday low order prices  
$8.98 list for $5.99  
$7.98 list for $5.45  
-Mon-Fri  12:15-4:00  

-2nd Floor Lafortune -Ticket Office Services Commissioner 

O'Laughlin Aud ON SALE NOW 
SMC Ticket Office  Reserved Seating  
& ND-SMC Dining Halls  - $7  
nounces  
The RiVer (2 Record Set)  $10.50  
$5.70  



S.U. VAN LINES
a is running weekends againSpecial Holy Day Mass 
All Saints Liturgy Restaurant Discounts offered on the route:
campus
miniStry 
(with Student 10) Pizza Hut (10 %) Villa Capri (10 %) Brown's Chicken (10 %) Village Inn Pizza (10 %)
Friday, October 31 -5:15 p.m. 
Ponderosa (10 %) Shangi HI (10 %) Saturday, November 1 -11:30 a.m. 
Eddie's (10 %) and Movie Theaters on the route offer discount tickets: Plitt (Town & Country) $2.25 at 
Forum $1.75 University Park $2.25
SACRED HEART CHURCH -available through the Ticket.Office, 2"d Floor Lafortune 
Ride VAN"LINES: $1.00/semester-ticket office

Check hall bulletin boards for times 
Services Commission 
of Masses in dorms. 
nnu ntor ar 
Hallowee·n 
os ume Party
Biggest and Best in Town Friday, Oct. 31 
Happy Hour 4:00-7:00 Boor Specials
9:30 -2:00 Drink specials 



The Observer Thursday, October 30, 1980-page 4 
•••••••••ronigh~•••••••• 
: Dillon and Lee's Present : ~ A HALLOWEEN BASH ~ 
···········;·················································~~
•

: All You Can Drink e All Night Long!
•
•

: ~Costumes Required!l 
• · Prizes, Contests 
~-········: ..................................................~ 
•• 9:00-1:00 $3.00 guys :• : Must Have 211.0. $2.00 girls • 

with Straight Flush Nov. 6 -Alex DeGrassi with Rick Walters Nov. 7 & 8 -The 3rd Street 
Sliders Nov. 12 -Free Spirit Nov. 13 -Jeff Lorber Fusion 
with Free Spirit 
Nov. 14 -New grass Revival with Pink & the Naturals 
United Limo, Inc. 
Travel United Limo To/From Chicago O'Hare Airport 
One Way Fare.....$22.00 
Deliver to your airline at O'Hare Airport
Round Trip..........$39.00 
O'Hare pick-up at Lower level Carson Restaurant Save over 50% on Round Trip To and From O'Hare 
New Schedule: NOW LEAVING ND BUS SHELTER 
..l... 
6 TIMES A DAY 
'iJ95 McKINlEY MISHAWAKA 

1//t."ll·m/c' lwur /romoururnwl/1111<' 111 '""''"' 111~111 Pll-a'l' makl-rl',l'r,ation' 2-' hour' in ad•;mn· *CaU for rl',l'f\ation' fur ·\'k ahout 'Pl'l'iall·harll-r rail·' Pkk·UP at llolida\ Inn. Flkharl' 

Pick.up at llolida~ Inn. \1khil!an <it•
CaD United Limo, Inc. (219)255-3068 
OFFICE,
PICK-UP 

Bittersweet a McKinley, Big Bear Restaurant, Town a Country Center, POINTS: Bus Shelter, Mlchlana 


•: 
•e 
: 
' 

Journalists discuss Dunne 
by julie joyce 
Professors Charles Fanning and Thomas Brown of Massachusetts presented the topic "The Irish in Chicago Politics and Journalism" in the second session of the Chautauqua series held in the Library Auditorium last night. The three-part series sponsored by the American Studies Department focuses on politics and journalism Chicago style. 
In introducing the two speakers, Professor Thomas Stritch praised the writings of Finley Peter Dunne, the main subject ofthe lecture. Dunne was a Chicago newspaperman and humorist whose writings were popular in the 1890's and 1910's. 

Dunne's pieces, commented Stritch, contain the "best dialect ever done in American English." Dunne's writings describe the Irish American community of Bridgeport on the Southside of Chicago. 
Dunne was a part ofChicago's .ofl real community reflects a flow of 
literary community which was probably most responsible for the Chicago cultural renaissance during the period from 1890 
until the 1920's. Dunne and his contemporaries were part of the Golden Age of American journalism. 
In his presentation, Charles Fanning said that Dunne came from one of the most exciting places in the history of com­munications because Chicago contained such a variety of extremes. Fanning, an English professor at Bridgewater State University in Massachusetts, is 
~------------.1 
• need Prl"nfl"ng I 
1 · • h ry? .• I 
1 In 0 ur . 1 
1 

1
1100 11 17 t 1
I -X pos ers,
I I 
1 only $10.00 I
1 •». 

.f 203 I
I 

~ · N. Mainl 
1e • · ·1
1 •., ·South Bend 1
1 I 
289-6977 II
I 

I fh • f fh 1 assembling the collection of
I e WIZ 0 e I 
J_P!T.!!!'-9-~~--~ 
the author of Finley Peter Dunne and Mr. Dooley and The Chicago Irish: An Anthology. 
According to Fanning, Dunne, although graduating last in his high school class of50, was hired by a Chicago newspaper at the age of 16. The son of Irish immigrants, he became a city editor at the age of 21. 
In 1893 Dunne's creation, Mr. Dooley, first appeared in print in Chicago's Saturday Post. The character of Dooley, a saloon-­keeper philosopher in Bridge­port, is a source of solace and companionship to the Irish laborers who come to his bar. 
Fanning proposed that Dunne's Dooley made three contributions to American literature. 
First ofall, his examination of life in Bridgeport in the 1890's is hist~rically and sociologically valuable. As an urban local colorist, Dunne adds the dimension of a sense of place. 
"Dooley's membership in a 
events and occasions in inter­
related lives" Fanning said, "and 
thus a total picture emerges of 
Bridgeport." 

Secondly, Dunne's character 
sketches demonstrated that 
common peoples' lives are 
worthy of consideration. His 
characters are human beings 
capable of dignity and tragedy. 
Thirdly, Fanning stated that 
Dunne's use of Irish dialect ex­
panded the possibilities of the 
vernacular voice. Dunne repre­
sented something new in 
American literature as a writer 
who dealt realistically with his 
own heritage and environment. 
Dunne's writings are political­
ly oriented, according to 
Fanning, Dunne was sympathet­·ic to the Irish American pursuit of power in order to rise in-serving individuals in politics. Fanning also noted that 
Dunne's Dooley pieces were 
nostalgic. He was bothered by 
the changes taking place in his 
community. Through Dooley, 
Dunne recorded the fulfillment 
as well as frustration of the Irish 
struggling to rise to the middle 
class. 

In his commentary on 
Fanning's presentation, Thomas 
Brown gave credit to Fanning for 
Dooley pieces. until Fanning did 
b~,e~hlo:~rld of Bridgeport had Brown, a former history professor at Notre Dame, presently teaches at the University of Massachusetts. He spoke of the Irish American experience in Boston. Tensions existed between being Irish working-class and Irish middle-
c p 
• JH'E SENIO:R 'FO:RM'll£ CH'll.I:RM'EN • CO:R1JI7l££Y :R'EQUESa IND'E:R'ESD''EV S'ENIO:RS ao SU:BMID' 7l:P'P£IC7lD'IONS 'FO:R D'H'E 'F0££0WINQ COMMID'D''E'E POSJD'JONS: 1. ;l(,·!Ji.llraliou Cl1<1irmau 
2. 
Hotrl lnfonualiou :Book/d Chc~irmau 

3. 
Social Commissioua .for .Loop 'llmr 

4. 
:Ball :R(Iom 'D.-si!JIIff 5. :_1ux Chairman 


6. :Bi,l 'D.-si!JIIt"r 7 :Pulilicily Co-c>rcliua/(lr 
S. Pho/(lrfrclph!l C(1-c•nliua/(lf 
9. 'Fiuauc,· C(lmmi/1,.,. Chairman to. S.-,rtiu1t 'llrnru!J.-mort.r Chairmau 
'llpplicaliCius 'll!'ailali!.-iu: SMC-Stuclmi 'lldil'ili.-s <.."?Uict' (.e·mau.d N'D -Stu,lmt 'lldil'ili.-s 0./Na (.Dr 'Forhm.-) . Jdi ·D,·.•crip/i(lu,\ 'EndN.-cl n'iih 'llpplicalicm. 
• DUE DATE: MONDAY, NOV. 3
1:. 
I 
classin 19th century Boston. 

Brown posed the question, "What role will Finley Peter Dunne play in the moral and imaginative history ofChicago?" He concluded that we will know better when we have a clearer sense of the middle class com­munities which emerged in Chicago. 
Finally, Brown believes that the Dooley pieces will find their appropriate places not only in studies of Chicago, but in all of American studies as well. 
Tonight's final Chautauqua topic is ''Politics and the Press in Contemporary Chicago". It is to 
be held at 8pm in the Library Auditorium. 
Acton recital Sunday 
I 

Notre Dame's University Ar­
tists Series continues its busy 
year with a presentation of 
organist Robert Acton this 
Sunday, Nov. 2. The 7:45p.m. 
performance will be held at 
Sacred Heart Church. 

Acton, 29, an associate pro­
fessor of music at Florida A & 
M University and director qf 
music at Temple Isreal in 
Tallahassee, has been active in 
music all his life. He received 
his early musical training in 
piano and theory at the Pea­
body Conservatory Preparatory 
Department in Baltimore, 
graduating at age 15. 

Acton received his bachelor and masters degree in music at the University of Michigan, studying under Robert Clark. He continued his study at Michigan with Marilyn Mason, earned the doctor of musical arts degree, and was subse­.quently awarded the Palmer Christian Award, given to the outstanding recent graduate of the doctoral program. In addi­tion to his work with the organ, Acton studied as a graduate piano major at Wayne State University in Detroit with Mis­
cha Kottler. 

Palmer is a member of the 
American Guild of Organists, 
Tallahassee Chapter. 

Included in Sunday's per­
formance will be Bach's Pas­
saca~lia, BWV 582 and Hinde­
mith s Sonata II, as well as 
other pieces. 
I p 

:::2 
--------------~ ------------~ 
The Observer Thursday, October 30, 1980-page 5 
GAO finds waste in declassification process 
WASHINGTON(AP)-The General Accounting Office pro­posed yesterday that the govern­ment abandon its practice of reviewing old classified docu ments and declassifying those that can safely be made public. 
At issue are 61 7 million pages dealing with state secrets of war, peace, diplomacy, arms control, espionage, trade negotiations and other government activies in the area of national security. 
The GAO, a government watchdog agency, cited the $11 million it costs each year to pay people to review the old papers. 
But its proposal drew criticism from the National Archives, storehouse of old government records, and from Steven Garfinkel, director . of the Information Security Oversight Office. 
He called the proposal "drastic, "insupportable," "One­dimensional" and "illogical." 
The GAO proposed dropping the review of classified docu­ments put into effect by an executive order signed by President Carter in 1978. 
Carter directed agencies to look at all classified documents as they become 20 years old and declassify those that can be disclosed without harm to the government. 
Previously, papers were not reviewed until they were 30 years old. 
The GAO said more than 155 agencies hold 617 million pages of documents requiring review. 
The agencies include the FBI, CIA, Arms Control and Disarm­ament Agency, U.S. Information Agency, and the departments of State, Justice, Commerce and Defense. Also on the list are many agencies no no longer in existence. 
Instead of systematically reviewing all classified . papers, the GAO recommended that the government examine only those requested or likely to be re­quested by members of the public, chiefly historians. It estimated that 90 percent of the declassified papers are of no interest to historians or to the public. 
The agency called systematic review "inefficient and costly." 
People wanting documents that had not been reviewed could seek them through the Freedom of Information Act, the GAO added. 
The GAO said the "page by page review" of documents is "costly and time-consuming" because materials about foreign governments must be kept secret for 30 years and because some infor~tion must be weeded out to avoid revealing the methods and sources used by intelligence agencies. 

DON'T MISS 
Bridgets 

f MIOBI.UA OOLLBGB 
Or OOMMBBOBf 
HALLOWEEN PARTY 
this friday 
~~1~ South Bend, ln. 46616 llll 
i::::;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::fall 
~:~~~~~~~~~~~... 

aJ;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;~ 
f! QUALI!Y !YPIRG SIBVIOl lll~ 
Vote!!! Pavers · !heals · Bepona · Muuorlpts Letters 

~-~----------­
The Observer Thursday, October 30, 1980-page 6 
DOOIBSBUBY 
~GAN'S CEfttBfilUM. II&P/8 EN­
ClJfJITER A MAlE OFIEU!?ON5/INP 
THEIR /Jffi.JPR/TIC 5PIN&S, FROM ~ IAIH05E TIPS INF&.MAWNft3 ~ MITTelJBY 

INTfllJ~ IS 7IOfJ6HT7) Be/llf~An.~ TO THe {JJMPf£XfTYOF THf:Sj~ Q'N.l"&CTA~WS.I IJJHAPP!tY, 7Jit IJI(AN5l'P5l'iR/YI,rJ/I-Ei AT~20, JJJ./[J 718.54F'n'iR. N.~'IS PI& OFF 8Y THe 

IIIMT7H15M/!AN315 7HAT THeIJMINOP 
7lJ 1Hli 7RAIN&l? 5CJ&N­
/10IAiJJ /?Ehi4NH/15 8t£N9fi?IN/<IN6 
Tt5r; TH/5 R£I'I?E5aVlS 
W~SINCe/1131, ~JIMMY 
A CLEAR CJ/OIC&. 8AcJ< 
C'.IV?!cKS BMIN CB..t-5 HAV& ON/..Y 
AFT&R7H15. 
8Cal 1944. 

When ~Cl~u need some 
notes atl:OO~a.m.,you find out who your friends are. 
You left the notes for chapter 6 in the library. A sure sign that tomorrow's test will be heavy with questions from chapter 6. Someone you know is about to get a phone call. 
· He's not going to like it, but he's going to come through. When this is over, do something special for him. Tonight, let it be LOwenbrau. 
Franklin's bond 
set 

A federal magistrate Wednesday set bond at $1 million for Joseph Paul Franklin, charged in the slayings of two black youths in Utah and wanted for questioning in a string of race-related shootings, including the May 29 wounding of civil rights leader Vernon Jordan. 
With federal marshals tightly screening hordes of reporters converging on the courtroom here, U.S. Magistrate Paul Game set a hearing for nextWednesday to determine whether the 30 year-old Mobile, Ala., native will besenttoSaltLakeCity, Utah, to face charges that he violated the civil rights of two blacks who were shot to death with a rifle as they jogged in a park last 
nu1J<..1111, 

wearing dark glasses 
with tattoos of an eagle and the Grim Reaper on his long­sleeved arms, showed little emotion as the bond was set. 
In asking for the high bo'ld, 
U.S. Attorney Gary Betz ticked off a list of other crimes that authorities want to question Franklin about, including the wounding of National Urban League president Jordan, slay­ings ofblacks in four other cities, the alleged defrauding of a Utah hotel, bank robberies in Tennessee and Georgia and use of fraudulent identification to obtain a firearm in Kentucky. 
Betz said there also is an escape warrant for Franklin from police in Florence, Ky. He added that Franklin is a drifter who hasn't held a job for three years and has used 12 aliases, wigs and other disguises to avoid authorities. 
Attorneys said Franklin has no felony convktions, but four misdemeanor convictions. They declined to elaborate. 
Wearing dark-shaded glasses as he was escorted to the courthouse, Franklin told reporters he was "definitely" a racist. 
A small group of blacks stood 
watching across the street from 
the federal courthouse while two 
FBI agents led the reputed Ku 
Klux Klan and American Nazi 
Party sympathizer one block 
through downtown Tampa to 
the courthouse Wednesday 
morning. 

"I'm innocent," Franklin told 
reporters. 

Claiming the charges were "trumped up", Franklin said, "They're trying to pin it on me because of my racist views." 
••• NBA 
[continued from page 11] 
Do you go for Rick Barry, one of the game's greatest scorers, passers and students? How about George Mikan, the hulking center who was the dominant figure of the league's early years? 
ulius Erving, the doctor, the man with the unmatched moves? Dave DeBusschere, outstanding at both ends of the court? Earl Monroe, the dazzling Pearl? Dolph Schayes? Bill Sharman? Willis Reed? Jim Pollard? 
my vote went to Walt Frazier. Clvde was New York's all-time le~der in scoring and assists and a key member of the Knicks' two championship teams, playiRg both ends of the coUrt with a style and a flair that did much for the NBA's image, as well as his 
Features 
Thursday, October 30, 1980-page 7 
Ne-w Orleans jazz lives on! 
The best traditions are to be story is part of the New Orleans jazz Burke onclarinet, andDave"FatMan" members have made and played thisenjoyed, and few are more enjoyable tradition. Born in 1896 in Reserve 
Wiliams on the piano. music for more than 50 years, and it's a 
than traditional New Orleans jazz as Louisiana, he grew up in a world wh~re These are among the musicians who part of them. Their music, while dated played by the artists who created this his father played trumpet and kept 
brought together the marches, in origin, attracts enthusiastic fans of great sound-the Preservation Hall instruments for the St. John's Parish quadrilles, blues, spirituals and all ages. Because they improvise as
Jazz Band. Band. He played ll1any instruments as a ragtime to create what has become they go along, each concert is an These are the musicians who made boy, but developed a special love for known as New Orleans jazz. original that will never be musical history with the creation of the cornet. By 1915, his stomping style 
New Orleans jazz is different. Its reconstructed in exactly the same way.
New Orleans jazz decades ago. They had made him a popular performer in form is uncomplicated, but its The Preservation Hall Jazz Band now travel throughout the world local clubs and night spots. Within a 
execution can be complex as each concert is sponsored by Century playing their famous music. The few years he was leading his own band. musician introduces his own free spirit Productions, Inc., as a part of their
Preservation Hall Jazz Band will be in The band members rehearsed into the concert. It is not Dixieland, it "ShowTime '80-81" entertainment
South Bend tonight only, for an 8:00 "playing for the kitty," in an ~ld art is not funny "straw-hat" music, and of series. Tickets for the concert are 
p.m. concert at the Morris Civic gallery that later became Preservation course it is unwritten. The tempo is a available at the Century Center Box
Auditorium. 
Hall in New Orleans. For this reason shade slower than that of other jazz Office. Call 284-9111 for ticket
Now in their 60s, 70s, and 80s, the Kid Thomas can rightly be considered forms. information. band members still play with the spirit "Mr. Preservation Hall." He is a 
Most of the Preservation Hall band 
and joy that symbolizes New Orleans natural showman and his exuberant jazz. Their music is born from turn-of­command of his horn, along with his the-century street parades and saloons, ratty tone, bespeaks rough New from the river boats and from the Orleans jazz. hearts of the people who laughed and Appearing with Kid Thomas will be danced and cried. It's music played by Joseph "Twat" Butler on bass, men who worked the docks all day, but Emanuel Paul on saxophone, banjo weren't too tired to blow their horns and violin, Alonzo Stewart on drums most of the night. Emanual "Manny" Sayles on banjo and 
Leading the band will be "Kid guitar, Worthia G. "Showboy" Thomas" Valentine, trumpeter. His Thomas on trombone, Raymond 
"Stardust," is reminiscent ofher classic 
"Legend In Your Own Time" 
(interestingly, Mr. Taylor appears on background vocals on this one). 
"Them" if like a grown-up version of 
"That's tile Way I've Always Heard It Should Be." Both succeed because 
while they may be reminiscent of past 
successes, they aren't blatant rip-offs of the same. 
Then there is "Jesse," a tale ofan old boyfriend who has hurt the singer before, yet whom she still loves. Despite the reminders of her friends, when he comes back to town, she goes back to him. "Jesse" is Carly Simon's best single release since the Golden Era. "Come Upstairs," a definite single 
Come Upstairs 
possibility, opens the album, and is I thought that the last quiz I offered he gave the members of the band hisbasically the same idea as "Jesse" was the easiest one I gave all year. Then opinion. His words evolved into the("Well I've known you for years/Oh why did I only get one entry? Perhaps it name of this group. 
but now it's all changed"), except the
Carly Simon 
was the fact that break was so close at 7. They named themselves after onesinger wants to go farther than just hand; I don't know. By the way, that ofthe greatest ofthe early rock and rollcutting flowers and making the wine one entry did not have ten correct stars.
cold. She even sings the chorus in a
Warner Bros. answers (he was close, however), so 8. They took their name from a book
somewhat seductive manner (e.g., 
there's another ten dollars back into by Aldous Huxley. 
"Co-o-o-rne u-u-up sta-a-airs/You can the bank. I still cannot believe that I've 9. Their name came from the manSince 1974, when Carly Simon take off my clothes," the latter line only had one winner so far, and it is not who, in the 1700s, invented the seed released her album Hotcakes, she has whispered). And there is also "Take Me because my answers are wrong .So here drill.
been unable to match either the As I Am," which seems to move better 10. They found their name totally at
quality or quantity of her early-70s than many previous songs, and could I go again: Bring your answers to The random. In search of a new name, the
successes like "That's the Way I've also succeed as a single. Observer office by sometime next band leader opened up an OxfordAlways Heard It Should Be," The other three songs on the album Monday. Ifall your answers are correct, English Dictionary and happened to see"Anticipation," "You're So Vain," are nice but unmemorable (I've you will probably win $10, unless more the two words which make up the"The Right Thing to Do," etc. The listened to the album several times and than one person submits the correct name of this group. 
biggest hit she has had since then was can't remember a thing about them). answers. Then a drawing will The answers to the last quiz are as one of the schlockiest songs she's ever "James" seems to be filler, similar to determine the winner. 
follows: (1) "Lady" came from Styx II; done, "Nobody Does It Better" (which the title song of BillyJoel's52nd Street. 
This week's quiz deals with groups. I (2) "How Can You Mend a Brokenpeaked at number two only because an "The Three of Us in the Dark" and will mention how a group got its name. Heart" was taken from the Bee Gees' even schlockier song, "You Light Up "The Desert" follow "In Pain" and You tell me to what group I am LP Trafalgar; (3) Go West yielded "In theMy Life" by Debby Boone, was "Take Me As I Am," respectively, referring. Navy" by the Village People; number one at the time). After that hit which could be why they don't stand 1. They took their name from their (4) "Listen to What the Man Said" was( 1977), she went downhill and was out as much as the other songs. 
high school_ physical education taken from Venus and Mars; (5) Jonibasically seen to have fading influence Producer Mike Mainieri has teacher, who asked the three founding Mitchell's "Help Me" came from her on the charts after the LP "Spy" failed managed to regain some of the magic members of the band to get their hair LP Court and Spark; (6) "Yellow both commercially and critically. With lost when Carly Simon tried to become cut and otherwise change their scruffy Submarine" was from Revolver;her latest release, Come Upstairs, on a a female Doobie Brother, especially on and unkempt appearances. When they (7) Hard Labor was the album from new label, Warner Brothers, she her last two albums, which were wouldn't, he had them expelled from which Three Dog Night's "The Showattempts to regain some of that lost basically as uninspired and unemotional as most Doobie Brothers school. Later, he tried (unsuccessfully) Must Go On" was taken; (8) "Barbara ground -and succeeds. 
to stop the group from using his name. Ann" came from the LP Beach Boys'Ms. Simon sings with some real music of recent years. For that, he 
2. This group took its name from the Party; (9) I'm in You featured "Signed, conviction for the first time since her must get some credit. Also deserving nickname ofthe dildo used as a prop in Sealed, Delivered (I'm Yours);" andGolden Era (1971-74). Take the song of credit is Michael McDonald, who (10) "IfI Can't Have You" came from"In Pain," for example. When she does not appear on this album, the first the porno film "Naked Lunch." 
3. This group, which had two , the soundtrack from Saturday Nightsings the words, "Pain, in pain/l'm in time he's been absent from a Simon LP number one hits in the early days of Fever.
pain," one can almost believe her. The since 1976. Thank you, Mike. 
song is suitably accompanied by a All in all, Come Upstairs is a good rock, took their name from their pounding, painful-sounding electric album. Hardly a classic as far as albums telephone exchange letters in their 
Tim Neely 

guitar, adding to the general go-there's too much competition. home town of Olympia, Washington. 
4. They took their name from a 1972 atmosphere of pain. I can't recall ever But it's better than anything Ms. 
movie starring Jeff Bridges.
hearing Carly Simon cut loose quite Simon has done since Hotcakes. One 
can only hope she can continue like .5. They stuck a pin in a map, and the Halloween
like she does on that one. 
pin landed in a city in Michigan.
this for many years to come.
The songs on the LP are more .like special
6. Keith Moon gave them theirher Golden Era music than anything 
name. He saw one of their early 
else she's done since. Another one of tomorrow
Tim Neely 
performances and, after the concert,her tributes to husbandJames Taylor, 


• r '' ~ ,.. • a I> .. -' ~ r ... (' I" • 
r
t 
--~ 
Ihe=~r====~==================================== 
~c:.cJlC3l~========================T=h=u=rs=d=ay=,=O=c=t=o=b=er=3=0=,=1=9=80==-=p=a=g=e=8 
Michael Molinelli 

Halloween ,Molarity 
.PID 'rt>UR HUSBA.Nt> PRE5ENTS Tile SUBURBAN 
GREAT! PHIL VONAHV£ 
EVE?, BeAT You, MR5.

UNICEF 
SOCIAL MALADY OF 1H£ 
Day 
No child should starve for attention. But last year 10 million children did. Some )0% ofall children born in the world's developing nations die before their fifth birthday from mal­nutrition or a related disease. Almost half of those that survive suffer malnutrition severe enough to leave their minds and bodies irreversibly damaged. This week, the United Nations Children's Fund will need help in its drive to change this tragic 

Peanuts 

situation. 
UNICEF is committed to con­quering world hunger through programs to train local workers, supply seeds and tools for village gardens and teach proper nutrition to mothers. UNICEF works side-by-side with the local government and community to fight the interwoven chronic problems of poverty, malnutri­tion and disease. Its basic services approach combats hunger by confronting the root causes: unsafe water, poor sanitation, unsuitable environment, lack of education or absence of health care. 
Halloween is a traditional day for children and giving. October )1 isalsoNationalUNICEFDay, a day to remember the work UNICEF does for the world's most needy children and mothers. donations are vital to UNICEF's ability to respond when needed and a small amount can go a long way. 
UNICEF asks that we be generous this week. UNICEF collection boxes and volunteers will be on campus; there will be candy sales in the dining halls and Music for UNICEF Night at the Nazz. Contributions will go far to help in the war against world hunger and malnutrition. 
Volunteers  are  needed.  Anyone  
interested  please  contact  Kathy  
Campanella at 283-1823.  

Beaux Arts clue 
Today's Beaux Ans Ball clue for the case of the Hidden Beer. 
'Td look UP. if I were you," Tom said lofuly. 

LOOK, MARCIE, I WROTE 
THE PAPER WA5 SUPPOSED 

THIS GREAT PAPER ON 
The.Daily· Crossword 

© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

--------------------------,
~ 
I 
I : Good Stuff this week at ' 
I 
' I THE NAZZ. . .
I I 
,--------------------------tI 
I -. ,__________________________,
I t tonight -Dan Keusal at 9:00 ·· ' 
I : Friday -Barry Stevens at 9:00 I
,__________________________,
' Rick Walters at 10:30 ' ' Mark Davis and :
lSaturday -Dan -Brahier at 9:00 ' 
' ''Forecast:' N.D. :
l Jazz Combo at 11:00 • 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 


The Observer Thursday, October 30, 1980 -page 9 
Illinois in trouble w-ith Big Ten 
The news release said the 
conference seeks to determine 
"whether the University of 
Illinois is in compliance with 
conference principles of institu­
tional responsibility and faculty 
control and with the con­
ference's eligibility procedures." 
The conference defines insti­
tutional responsibility as each 
member school's adherence to 
Big Ten regulations. 
"The principle of faculty con­trol requires that each member university delegate to a faculty group within its organization the responsibility for the develop­ment of institutional policies concerning intercollegiate ath­letics, the administration of those policies and supervision of institutional compliance with conference requirements," the releasesaid. · 
In the Wilson case, the student, a transfer from a C.alifornia junior college, claims he is a junior and therefore has enough academic credits to play 
Bio club 
schedules meal , speech 
All students, grad students, and faculty members of the Biology Club are invited to attend an enlightening meal October 30 at 6:00 p.m. in the Faculty Dining Room (South Dining Hall). 
Simply get your dinner and carry it upstairs where you will enjoy a meal and an after-dinner presentation by James F. Millinger, dean of "Sea Semes­ter'' of the Sea Education Association in Woods Hole, Mass. 
... O'Connor 
[continued from page 10] 

petition before the appeals court, asking them to block Karen from tryouts while con­sidering the issue of whether she should be allowed to play at all. The judges agreed 2-1 Monday to do so. 
Karen's lawyers filed more motions Tuesday asking the appeals court to reconsider and to ask for a temporary injunction barring the school from holding the tryouts. 
"We argued that there would be an irreparable injury if she were not allowed to try out for the team," said Andrew David, one of Karen's attorneys. 
But Schwartz said the school believes Karen should be kept off the boys' team for two reasons. First, Schwartz said, federal and state laws prohibit boys and girls from competing together in contact sports. 
Second, he said, "If girls are allowed to compete in inter­:scholastic sports, under the law there is no way in which we can prevent boys from trying out for the girls' teams ... and the girls will be replaced by boys. The girls' programs would be de­stroyed." 
football this season. 
However, the conference con­tends he is a senior and therefore does not have enough credits to meet the elil!:iblitv requirements. 
Wilson filed suit against the conference and also won an order from the Illinois Supreme Court allowing him to stay on the team pending the hearing of his suit in the Circuit Court after the season ends. 
"This investigation, and many others which the conference conducts, reflects long-standing conference traditions and prin­ciples," the release said. 
" ... Student-athletes must be first and foremost students who meet conference-wide academic stan­dards. 
It added that under the Big Ten's "self-governing principle ... each of the 10 universities has a duty to the other members and to their student-athletes to observe strictly conference rules, including those involving academic progress and eligibili­ty. It requires a thorough in­vestigation in any instance where a possibility of a violation of conference requirements may exist." 
---------------------------------------~
ANYTHING GROWS N. IRONWOO~ ! 
FLORIST -campus delivery TOLL ROAD 1 House Plants Gifts, Corsages DIRECTLY 
HOUSE PLANTS GIFTS, TELEFLORIST 
WIRE FLOWERS 
272-8820 
EAST of CAMPUS l/4mi. N. of Douglas 
10% DISCOUNT PRESENT THIS COUPON ND -SMC 10/80 

~--------------------------------------~ 
NDSU Social Commission / Presents: 
"A MASQUERADE PARTY'' Costume Judging: -Free Van Holen Tix 
as prizes LIVE BAND Free Admission and Munchies 9-1 Friday, October 31, 1980 North Dining Hall 


A community 
of faith and friendship where young men prepare to become Holy Cross priests. 
For further information or vocational counseling with no obligation contact: 
Rev. Andre Leveille, c.s.c. Box 541 Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 • 219 283-6385 

tostretchyour 
..... dollars. /(r~ 
~ 

You don't have to be a math genius to figure it out. Basic money management and careful budgeting are two very effective ways to keep from feeling the pinch when money gets tight. And we'll tell Q you how to do just that, and more, in our next issue of "Insider," the free supplement to your college newspaper from Ford. 
We'll explain how to meet the high cost of tuition through scholarships and student loans. We'll set up guidelines for developing your own personal finance system ... like custom tailoring a budget ... choosing and maintaining a checking account ... and obtaining and using credit wisely. And we'll 
offer tips on how~-----~-­
stick to those budgets. With info on where to live, and how to get the best buys on food, entertainment, clothing, travel, textbooks, stereos, and more. Then we'll tell you how to be sure you're getting what you pay for. And how to complain when you don't. 
Check it out. You'll find some great tips on how to stretch your college dollars. And who knows, you may even discover being frugal can be fun I 
Also be sure to check out Ford's exciting new 1981 lineup, including Escort. The front-wheel drive car that's built to take on the world. With Escort you'll find some great ways to multiply your fun. 
FORD

Look for •Insider•-Ford's continuing series of college 
FORD DIVISION -·
newspaper supplements. 
Thursday, October 30, 1980 -page 10
The Observer 



] ohn Higgins {22 ), Dave Poulin (15), andthe rest ofthe Irish hockey team leaves today for a weekend series against Clarkson in New York. Notre Dame wtll try to bounce back after Tuesday's4-3 loss to Bowling Green.
Irish!!! 
(photo by john Macor). 


TACO JOHN'S INVITES YOU TO HAVE A "BURRITO-FUL DAVI" 
. Dine Inside or Carry Out Three Convenient Locations: 
N.D. location Lincolnway West U.S. 33 North Ironwood Mishawaka Niles South Bend 
Buy one-Get One 
FREE c..s~____!!!th_!_hj~~QYQQ.Dl. __~, 
',

BwAny',..., 
m~~eaTR at 
TACO JOHN'S and get another one just like it 

·FREE with this coupon. Choose our regular bean, beefy combination, or new giant SUPER BURRITO 
Limit one coupon percustomer. Onefree Burrito per ) ', coupon Optional or additional ingredients at extra / '<fharge on each burrito. ~ ', Expires 11-30-80 // 
~----------~--------' 
O'Connor 
• 
awatts decision 

CHICAGO  {AP)­ As  her  
school's  basketball  season  
begins,  11-year-old  athlete  

Karen O'Connor is sitting on the sidelines, waiting for the seventh 
U.S. Circuit Court ofAppeals to call the shots. 
When Karen went to her junior high school Tuesday to try out for the basketball team, she found the door closed to her because of an all-boys policy and a Monday appeals court ruling. 
"She came this morning, and her father said she was here to try out for the basketball team. He was reminded that he was undera court order {not to let her try out)," said Phil Arenstein, principal of MacArthur Junior High School in suburban Prospect Heights. 
"We're doing everything the law asks us to do and they're seeking to overturn the law," said the school's attorney, Allen Schwartz. "We're not trying to deprive her of anything." 
But Karen, a basketball whiz who has competed with boys in little league competition for four years, feels deprived. 
"I don't think it's fair and I'm very upset about it," Karen said in a telephone interview. 
"I've been getting a lot of harassment, mostly from boys, in the halls. They say, "Why do you want to play on the boy's team?" 
"I think I'm as good as the boy players," she said. 
The day before the tryouts, the appeals court blocked temporar­ily a lower-court order that would have allowed Karen to compete. 
A lawsuit was filed on her behalf earlier this month, after she learned she would not be allowed to try out for the boys' team. 
Last week, U.S. DistrictJudge Prentice H. Marshall ruled Karen should be allowed to try for the boys' team because the gir~' team would not be challenging enough for her. 
MacArthur and the District 3 school board filed an emergency 
.[~ontinued on page 9] 


by The Ohsert,er and The Associated Press 
Off-camous athletes are reminded that 
the deadline for sufimitting rosters for interhall basketball ~nd 
hockey is November 4. Those interested in hockey should stgn 
the roster in the Non-Varsity Athletic Office (C2) of the ACC, 
or call Mike Kennedy at 233-5939. Those interested in basket­
ball should organize their rosters and then contact Off-Campus 
Sports Commissioner Tom Disser at 277-87 30 by November 3 
so that fees can be settled and rosters finalized. All athletes are 
reminded that proof of insurance is required. 
Sailinl! Club members Phil Reynolds and Greg Fisher finisheJ-t'ifth and sixth respectively over fall break in the Midwest Singlehandeds held at the University of Southern Illinois. Last weekend Reynolds teamed with Marguerita Cintra and Fisher paired with Carol Silvia at O~io State to finish fo~rth overall in a field of18. The Reynolds/Cmtra boat captured ftfth place while Fisher/Silvia came in t?ird. This w~ek.end the club will send a squad to an all-women s race at Mtchtgan State. 
Co-ree vollevball captains who did not 
attend the meeting on W ecr'nesday must pick up the schedule and rules in the Interhall Office by tomorrow. The first round of play begins Sunday, November 2. 
Ril!ht tO Life will sponsor a jog-a-thon on Sunday~ovember 2 at theNotre Dame Athletic and Convoca­tion Center. Those interested in participating may sign up in LaFortune, the Tom Dooley Center, 256 Alumni, 110 Holy Cross (ND), 215 Breen Phillips, 458 LeMans, or 332 Holy Cross (SMC). The jog-a-thon will be held on the indoor track from 
1:30 to 5 p.m. For further information call Tim (1157) or Bill {8127). 
A lawsuit challenging the IndianaHigh School Athletic Association's method of determining playoff particpants was filed in Circuit Court yesterday.The suit was filed by attorneys representing 17 senior players at South Bend St. Joseph's, seeking a restraining order against the IHSAA playoffs which are set to begin tomorrow night. St. Joseph's, unbeaten for the second straight year, did not make the Class AAA playoffs because of the IHSAA format for breaking ties within a district. The IHSAA formula, in case ofties, calls for the two playoff spots in each district to go to those teams whose opponents compiled the higher rating. TheDistrict 2 spots went to Mishawaka and Lafayette Jeff, even though both St.Joe and Fort Wayne Luers went unbeaten. St. Joe petitioned the IHSAA earlier this week, asking forapre-playoff round between the four contenders in that district.The propos~! was rejected by the IHSAA.The suit, filed on behalfof15 semor players and two student managers, asks that the playoffs be halted until St. Joseph's is given an opportunity to compete.St. Joe has .the longest current overall winning string in the state at 21 stratght games.Eight teams in each of the state's three classes earned 
berths in the playoff sectionals.A hearing has been set for this afternoon. 
Water polo club meets 
There will be a meeting of the Notre Dame Water Polo Club at the Rockne swimming pool Saturday at 11 a.m. All members are strongly encouraged to at­tend. Team pictures will be taken and winter training plans dis­cussed. For more information call Mike Corbisero at 8987. 
Saint Mary's volleyball team takes two 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team defeated Goshen yesterday 15-11, 15-4. The win ups the Belle record to 11-8-2 on the season. 
Senior forward Orlando Woolridge, who is nursing a left ankle with pulled ligaments, will return to practice tomorrow. 
Who~ tops in the NBA? 
By Alex Sachare AP Sports Wrtter 

Who are the 10 greatest pro basketball players of all time? Who was the best coach? What was the National Basketball Association's finest team? 
The league has taken a stab at answering those questions as part of its 35th anniversary celebration. Members of the Pro Basketball Writers Association of America were polled to determine the NBA's all-time team, coach and player, and the results will be announced at a luncheon tomorrow in New York. 
But why wait? Before reading any further, take a timeout and jot down your own selections. A ballot with 50 players and 15 coaches was sent to PBWAA members to aid in the voting, but all it did was refresh the memory. You ought to be able to come up with quite a 10-man club without it. 
One thing worth noting is that only two active players were included on the ballot: Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and Julius Erving. This should offset, to a degree, the fact that most members of the PB W AA did not see the players from the early days ofthe NBA. 
For this writer, nine players came to mind immediately -no doubts, no questions. Only the lOth spot on the team was tough to fill. 
Start with the three super­centers: Wilt Chamberlain, Bill Russell and Kareem Abdul­-Jabbar. Each was a dominant player, and all three are auto­rnatic choices for any 10-man team. 
Three guards were also auto­matic; Oscar Robertson, Je.rry West and Bob Cousy. Leavtng Robertson or West off is un­thinkable and Cousr was one of the key e'tements o the NBA's only dynasty, the Boston Celtics. 
At forward, three names also stuck out: elgin Baylor, Bob Pettit and John Havlicek. Some consider Baylor the best all­-around player in the history of the game, and he and Pettit both made the all-league first team 10 times. Havlicek rates a nod because ofhis skill, his hustle, his longevity and his class. 
But the ballot asked for 10 men, and filling that last spot was tough. 
[continued on page 6] 
f..,IJ • l.t~~,,itP.•1 JnS f' ,p;f tH: 1eCe1\lect hy 4 45 p n, IVIJfJ ~fJ\oS 1'''11' 'U :he• I')Sue •1 -.•111111 11 1tw ohl IS run Thtt Obaerver utfu:.e ..,....til "'Ll'P' ·• • 1 ~1 ltdll~ Monll<-l'w ltHOw.Jh Fr11l;ty 10 00 a rr •o 4 45 p m .\II tlaudu.•cb •nus! bf3 
pre·PiWI. Pt11H•r tn Pt:l'iOn ur rhrouyll rhe mdtl
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
OVERSEAS JOBS: Summer/year 
round Europa, S. Amar.. Auatralla. Alia. Allllelda $500·$1200 monthly. Expansea paid. Slghlaeelng. Free Into. Write: UC, Box 52-IN 4, Corona Del Mar. CA. 92625. 
Uaed and Oul-ot-Prlnt bookl bought, sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS, 1027 E. Wayne, 232-8444. 12·6 p.m.. closed Mondays. 
IIASEBALL CARD SHOW, NOV. 1, QUALITY INN, DOWNTOWN SO. BEND, 9 A.M. TO 4 P.M. FOOTBALL, BSKBALL CARDS. N.D. PROGRAMS. SPORT MAGAZINES, ETC. BUY, SELL, TRADE. INFO. 255·1738. 
c~untry house for rant tan minutes DESPERATELY NEED 'BAMA TICKETS! to campua 277-3604 288-0955 CAN'T THINK OF AN ORIGINAL REASON FOil YOU TO SELL YOURS TO
~ur bedroom house for rant cloaa 
ME RATHER THAN ANYONE ELSE: AT
to campus Immediate occupancy 
I.EAST I'M HONEST... PLEASE CALL
call 287-5361 
3283 AND ASK FOil CHRIS. ROOM FOil RENT • located In quiet 
WANTED: Tlx lor NO VI Alabama
neighborhood 1 mila weal ol cam­game. Min 2. max 4. Will negotiate 
ILOST/FOUND I . 
put. Large room. aludylng. 234·2856.  Excellent  lor  your selling price. Call collect any day alter 5 p.m., 1-404-945-2658.  
Linda or Bill Millar.  

WANTED \ 
LOST: Malcor calculator on 
L'------------'­
Tuesday before break In front ol Lafortune. II found please call 
DOUMBEC (Tabla h) Instruction . Kevin at 3578. 291-8215, evenings. 
NAVAL OFFICERS -The Naval Reserve Is looking lor enslgna thru Lt. Commanders for alllllallon with the reserve program. Pay blllata are currently available. Far lnlormatlan contact Cdr. Pater Rumely, 272-9053. 
Need a Ride to St. Louis and back on the weekend of November 15. Will ahara usual. Call Gary al1030. 
Need ride to the Akron-Canton, Ohio, area on Friday, Oct. 31, altar 
~~~t2;PaE-~~R·~:Sh.aOreexNpaA,.~="~' 

. 
Bast Molarity strips tram Molinelli's llrst two yearL At the Bookltora 
Lilian for COUNTRY flOCK JAM ticket glv•awaYJ on WSND-AM and WIIBII·FM thll weeldl 
COUNTRY ROCK JAM -FIVE bondalor$4.00-you'll never see a ahow 011 A PRICE like thll agalnl Buy your tickets now at the Student Union Ticket olllce or In the dining halla Wed-Frl. Allo available atlllv81 City Records. all outfalL 
LETS JAMIII Country flock Jam ­this Saturday at SlepOn Center5:30 p.m.lll1 a.m.lealurlng5 banda and a chicken barbecue by Port-A-Pit. 
SUNDEFers N'oubllez pas Sunday night at Lawlslo'a 6:30 p.m. $4.00 pay at the door. Can Madelaine 7344 or 7129 lor reservations DECK THE HALLS WITH LOTS OF PRESENTSIIII Old Monday' a snow gel you psyched for Christmas? Chest· nuts roasllng and oil that holiday atulf7 Why not vend your holiday wares at the St. Nk:k Christmas Bazaar at St. Mary'sll Call VIcki at 41-4786 to r"erva a booth. 

IUTOIIS NEEDED: 
1. 
On•lime need-Review on ataHIHCI, willing to pay. 

2. 
17 yr. old, Hlatory a English. 

3. 
H.S. student. Economlca. Contact Volunteer Sarvlcea, 7308 



The Duke ol Naaaau would like to thank the Dulcheu, our wild twlc• divorced daughlet', and olh8f cohorta lor the great lim" In the 
CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE POSITION! soan. STRIKE IT UP THURSDAY NITE OCT.30 IN lllands. Beginning this week the Port-lima position promoting high THE BASEMENT OF ALUMNI BEFORE Duke will be available lor cloak­
NAZZISM: Sea Dan Kauaaltonlghl at

,L-_TIC_K_ET_S---:-­
quality spring break beach trips on THE MSB CONCEI!T FROM 5:30-6:30 room tripa, lreatm8111 ol psoriasis ol 
9:00.

FOR RENT 1 campus lor commlulon plus tree the feet. protectlan lram wild dogs
SPONSORED BY THE CLEVElAND CLUB'-----------....1 WANT TO BUY: 4 GA llx for Air Farce travel. Call or write lor an appllca· To the blonde girl reading Zen a during 3 a.m. shopping trips, and FOil RENT: Ugly Duckling llent·A· 
game Please call Mary at 8050 lion. Summit Travel, Inc., Parkade Architecture on the N.J. bus: Why Molly, Mary and Ortman, eseort Mrvlce to chic, swanky r•• Car. Prk:ad from $7.95 a day and 
Ploza. Columbia, Mo., 65201, (800) are you 10 qulel7 You all owe me. lauranta requiring $18 Hpt. Thankl seven centa a mila. Phone 2S5·2323 325·0439. The Crouword Puuler again lor maldng II belter In the
He who remembers many thingslor reaarvatlana. 

Bahamaa. 


---~---­

Thursday, October 30, 1980 -,page 12 
-orts 
At state tourney 
Irish entertain hopes for win 
by DaVId Wilron Sports Writer 

It doesn't take in-depth re­
search to see that the Irish field 
hockey squad is prepared for this 
weekend's state tournament in 
Richmond. The team is 
PSYCHED. . 
"I think we can take the whole thing!,"' declared first-year coach Jan Galen, "and I know the team 
i:; really up for this one. There's been improvement galore ever since the early season." 
In the first round of the 
tnurnarnent tomorrow, the Irish 
play Valp;naiso, a team by which 
thev were narrowly defeated two 
weeks ago. 
··w~· only lost to Valpo .\-2," .~,, id <;,tlen, "anu we've improved (n)O'~{, ~irwe then." 
Th:• t 111ay be no exaggeration. ( rakn crnlited at least half the rr~ernbers of her team with vital teun nmttibutions and marked intprovcrnent. 
·'Diane Cherney and Giana M.trro~e are playing good solid fi<'ld lwckcv for us," she said, "andJoan Totten (first year) has played consistently all year. Furthermore, Jeanne Grasso has been back since the St. Louis game and Clare Henry has really come on strong with the offense, so we've had a chance to rc:::gain our depth." 
Should Notre Dame defeat Valparaiso as expected, they will then face Franklin College in a match for the championship. Franklin drew the single tourna­ment bye. 
Notre Dame defeated Frank lin 2-0 last September 19, 
and  would  advance  to  the  
regional  tournament  if  they  
..:ould repeat the win.  

"We're up against teams we know we can beat," concluded ( ralen . 
Last week, while most Notre Dame students enjoyed a quiet and relaxing fall break, the squad continued the regular season with six games away from home, in as many days. Unfortunately, the team continued to experi­~nce the "bad luck-o'-the-Irish" that has plagued them through-
Busick steps down as ND ticket manager 
hv Bet/1 Htt/fmrm Sport.r Editor 

Notre Dame Ticket Manager Michael Busick has announced his resignation effective December 31. 1980. Busick. who has held his present post since March, 1975. will leave Notre Dame for a pos1t1on with Hennessy, Carrico and Gates, Inc. of Louisville, Ky. 
"It's an opportunity for myself and family to improve our­selves," said Busick. who graduated from Notre Dame in 197 3 with a degree in business administration. "It is a better opportunity career-wise and will give me a chance to improve m~·self. I will be taking the skills I gathered here at Notre Dame ;md applying them to the business world. 
"I hate to lea\'e Notre Dame, but I have reached a point in my c.treer where I am at a plateau. I need bigger challenges." 
'I hate to 
leave ... 

I need bigger challenges ' 
Busick, whose new duties with the insurance firm will included handling the day-to-day routines of a general manager, empha­sized that he needed a "people orientated position." 
''I'd say a person sensitive to the needs of everyone," said Busick when detailing qualities he s;tw necessary in the selection of his successor. "One that could understand certain limitations and judge the needs of all individuals, but be as fair as possible." 
Basic duties of the ticket 

Michael Busick 
manager include the allocation 
and distribution of tickets for all 
University events. 
Busick served as assistant· ticket manager for two y~~ars prior to taking his present positio_n. He also served as the head student manager in his senior year at Notre Dame. 
One of the main cogs in the Notre Dame hockey Breakaway campaign, Busick added that the once endangered program is now on "financially sound ground." Busick added that the season ticket sales have reached a high of 2000 thus far. 
Busick, who received his masters in business administra­tion from Indiana University in 1977, will make the move to Louisville in January with his wife 
Judith, daughterJennifer and son Jeffrey. 

out the season when on the road, as they failed to produce a single victory. Monday they were defeated by Indiana State 3-1, Tuesday by Missouri in a close 1­0 contest, Wednesday by nation­ally-ranked St. Louis 8-0, Thursday by Southern Illinois 5­2, and Friday and Saturday to Principia by scores of1-0 and 3-0 respectively. 
While most people would 
regard the week as a frustrating 
and depressing ordeal, Coach 
Galen saw it another way. 
"We're always looking for 
more practice and competition," 
she said. "We're a maturing 
tearn." 
"People have to remember 
that we're a non-scholarship 
team. When we play teams like 
St. Louis, with eleven players on 
t•Jll rides, we don't expect to win. 
l'o us however, the chance to 
play teams like that is an in­
valuable experience." 
Galen added that the many 
hours of traveling and many 
games undoubtedly contributed 
to the-losses. 
The Irish closed out the 
regular season Tuesday with a 
loss to Ball State4-~. again on the 
road. Clare Henry was at her best 
however, scoring both goals for 

Notre Dame and making many significant offensive contributions. 
·so, a confident, energetic, and markedly improved field hockey team will once again take to the road this Friday, with hopes of returning home with the Division II Championship. The Irish completed the regular season with eight wins against 12 losses. Last year, the field hockey squad, which finished at 6-11-1, took second place in the Division 

The Irish field hockey team travels to Richmond tomorrow to meet
III tournament, losingonly2-l to 

Valparaiso in thefirst round ofthe Indiana Division II state tournament. 
Taylor in the finals. 

Earlier in the season Notre Damefell 3-2 to Valpo. (photo byJohn Macor). 
Robinson sticks foot in tnouth 
After all the analysis, commentary and snide remarks, the nation will be shocked to learn that neither Jimmy Carter nor Ronald Reagen pulled the biggest foot-in-mouth of the day on Tuesday. 
Instead, that distinction belongs to University of Southern California head footbal coach John Robinson, who has a brilliant future as a speech­writer for the Ku Klux Klan ifhe ever leaves USC. 
Robinson, who is in his fifth season as warden of 
the football program that fronts for an NFL 
breeding ground, told the New York Times that 
"Our team turns white," ifthe school's admissions 
office adheres to its minimum standards of a 2.7 
grade-point average and combined SAT score of . 800. 
What a l.ovely thing to say. 

Perhaps Robinson would care to repeat his 
claim for the benefit ofRod Bone, who compiled a 
perfect 4~0 grade-point average in high school and 
just happens to be a vital member ofNotreDame's 
defensive backfield. 

Or maybe he'd like to discuss the subject with 
Alan Page of the Chicago Bears. A former All­
American at Notre Dame, Page passed the bar 
exam in Minnesota last year. 
Both Bone and Page are black. 

But Robinson need not even look as far as Notre 
Dame for examples ofvery intelligent blacks who 
just happened to be exceptionally gifted athletes. 
I'll let you in on a little secret, John. That guy on 
TV who used to run through airports but now flies 
through them doesn't have his lines dubbed in for 
Craig 

Chval 


him. And on occasion, 0.]. Simpson does a pretty fair job as a sports commentator for ABC-TV. 
In case you didn't know, John, 0.]. won his Heisman Trophy while playing at USC. 
I know, that was during the John McKay Era. But how about Charles White, last year's Heisman· Trophy winner? He's even smart enough to memorize enough lines to be on a television show. Must be some white blood in that boy, huhJohn? 
All ofthis is just the latest in a series ofdispicable antics on the part ofRobinson. Last fall, Robinson, with a holier-than-thou tone, declared that if he discovered any ofhis players not attending classes, he wouldn't permit them to play-even if the upcoming opponent were Notre Dame. 
Sure, John. 
Besides having ugly racial overtones, Rob­inson's latest folly is simply a copout. As of last spring, every single former Notre Dame player in the National Football League had an under­graduate degree. And every basketball player to spend four years at Notre Dame under Digger Phelps has a diploma to show for it. 
And John Robinson would have a hard time 
convincing many people that Southern Cal­
ifornia's academic program is as challenging as 
Notre Dame's. 
But he'd probably try. 
I 
I 
I 
~ 



