
• • • Nikki Giovanni -page 8 

FRIDAY· FEBRUARY 1), 1980 

N.J. Sen. Bradley favors Title IX 
by Michael Onu(rak given equal athletic opportuni­Senior Copy Editor ties," Bradley said. "I have a three-year-old ' 
In Iran 
Mardi Gras attracts the big spenders on campus. [photo by Dave RumbachJ 
Hostage situation improves 
In an exclusive Observer inter­view last night New ] ersey Senator Bill Bradley said that he favors Title IX, subject of recent campus controversy, and forsees many women's sports programs as someday being revenue producing if they are not already. Bradley, a first term United States Senator and former Rhodes Scholar, spoke at a fund-raiser dinner for Indiana Sen. Birch Bayh last night at South Bend's Century Center. · 
''Title IX is a complex social and economic issue which has no immediate solution. It is, however, an important goal that men and women should be 
(AP) -A key negotiator said 
yesterday that. an agreement 
had been reached to end the 
103-day hostage standoff in 
Tehran, but American officials 
cautioned against undue opti­


Leftists takeover bank 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) -Leftists occupied the Agricultural Development Bank in down San Salvador late y<:st erday, and local radio sta­tic H1s reported they were hold­lllg at lt:ast 500 hostages as part of a continuing drive to oust El Salvador's four-month­
old Junta. 
The leftists identified them­,;elvcs as members of the Popu­lar R<:volutionary Blot, the na­tion· s largest activist organ­twtion. They hung banners from the windows , demanding better loan rates for small farmers. 
!'he bank takeover was peaceful. It was not known if the leftists were armed of how many there were. There also was nt> official confirmation of the number of hostages inside. 
Members of the Bloc also held t.he city offices of the wa­ter and sewer administration for the second day, d.emanding better service to poor areas. 
Meanwhile, leftists of a sec­ond major organization, the Popular Leagues of Feb. 28. ended a two-day occupation ot the Panamanian Embassy peacefully, freeing Ambassador David Peret Ramos and two other hostages unharmed. 
They also released two more 
hostages unharmed from the 
Spanish Embassy, which they 
occupied 10 days ago and are 
continuing to hold. 
Other leftists occupied the 
offices of an electric company in 
Ahuachapan, 50 miles west of 
the capital, on Thursday.' 
Violence continued in the 
countryside. 
mism and Iran's president again demanded U.S. acknow­ledgment and condemnation of crimes allegedly committed by 
A government their demands to the Salvado-­the deposed shah. ,;pokesman said leftist guer­ran government. No police Sean MacBride, former for­rillas attacked a national guard were visible around the embas­eign minister of Ireland, said convoy near Zacatecoluca, · sy. the United States and ''the about 42 miles west of San Sal­The leftists demanded free­Iranians" have agreed the hos­vad!•r and four attackers were dom for 23 of their comrades tages will be released with the slain. arrested Tuesday at the head­opening of a U.N. inquiry into 
About ~5 LP-28 members, ap­quarters of El Salvador's Chris­the shah's alleged crimes. parentlyunarmed, left the Pan­tian Democratic Party. They MacBride, who has been in­amanian Embassy at Midday were arrested when police volved in efforts to free the and boarded a bus for the Uni­stormed the offices to end a approximately 50 American verstiy of El Salvador after the leftist occupation of it and free hostages since the U.S. Embas­ambassador agreed to relay 10 hostages. sy was seized Nov. 4, said the 
~-----------·------··-·-----. --------· -------·---~ --·--· --------·-------­
-~-··----· --------·-·-------------··---·------·-· _____ -----------·
, 


Mardi Gras stillgoes strong 
by Tim V ercellottt StaffReporter 
·fhere was a feeling of optimism in the air at Mardi Gras last night. Contrary to earlier reports, the organizers reported that the annual carnival IS doing as well as can be expected, and that the upcoming weekend promises to be profitable. 
According to Mardi Gras Chairman Bob Morin, returns are good when one takes into account the occurrence of two basketball games, the Olympics, and 'a wave of depart­mental tests--all taking place during Mardi Gras week. 
"Friday and Saturday nights were exception­al, and with one goo9 night we can recoup our losses,'' Morin said. 
Morin also cited the entertainment as one of Mardi Gras' best aspects. "We have had a good variety of music, both professional and amateur. A lot of the credit for this success goes to Mary Ahern, who coordinated some of the entertainment,'' Morin said. 
According to Mike Day, business Il}ilnager for Mardi Gras, raffle ticket sales have steadily improved throughout the past two weeks. 
Also, the concession booth has done well. 
Day went on to point out that costs were decreased this year in terms of materials for booth construction. 
''In spite of a twenty percent increase in the cost of wood, we managed to save some money this year," Day stated. 
One of the problems that has plagued past Mardi Gras has been the use of counterfeit money. According to both Morin and Day, this was taken care of this year. Morin explained that a different type of paper has been used for the Mardi Gras money this year. "The paper that we are using is of a special grade; it is almost impossible to photocopy, and it is difficult to find," Morin said. 
In addition to sparse crowds, other problems have plagued Mardi Gras. One of them was :he organizing committee's lack of experience. According to Morin, the students that ran things last yearwere veterans. "Last year was an excellent year for the Mardi Gras, and one of the reasons for this success was the seasoned crew. Our organizatio-n this year has a lot of new eeople, and we ran into some problems in 
.[continued on page 4] 
--·--­
.--;; . .-~ 
daughter and I would like to think that she will have the same opportunities that I have had with respect to collegiate athletics,'' he added. Bradley was a basketball All-American while attending Princeton Uni­versity, as well as a profession­al star with the New York Knlckerbockers. 
Bradley mentioned Montclair State in northern New]ersey as an example of a school that has adapted well to the Title IX guidelines. Montclair, where Bradley's wife teaches, has 
what he ·termed ''an excellent 
[continued on page 11] 
inquiry would "investigate the extent to which the regime of the shah may have committed offenses under international law.'' 
In Tehran, President Abolhas­san Bani-Sadr told reporters late yesterday, "I don't know what he (MacBride) said. Let me alone.'' 
Asked if a U.N.-sponsored commission of inquiry would convene soon in Iran, Bani-Sadr said: They are waiting for me to make that announcement but I am waiting to see if the U.S. will accept our conditions.'' 

He reiterated the hostages could be released only if the United States acknowledges and condemns crimes allegedly committed by the shah, pledges not to interfere in Iranian affairs and agrees not to block efforts to extradite the shah or have his money returned to Iran. 
Bani-Sadr outlined the same three-point "action plan" in an interview Monday by the French newspaper Le Monde. Wednesday, the Iranian presi­dent said revolutionary leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini had accepted the plan. 
However, the Iranian presi­dent saidJesterday: ''Earlier I was aske if Imam (Khomeini) agrees with the proposal and I answered I think he will a­gree." 
Earlier the Carter administra­tion called on Iranian officials to clarify their demands. "We·are going to have to see some more definition'' of what the Iranians want in exchange for freeing the hostages, said Hodding Carter, the State Department 
spokesman. 
Dismissing speculation on the hostages' imminent release, a senior State Department official said: "You woulo die several times over if you held your breath" for it. 
[continued on page 4] 


·News in brief 
Friday, February 15, 1980 -page 2 
Truman scholarships
Olympic Committee meets 
-


Foundation expands program 
on President 'sproposal 

LAKE PLACID, N.Y. (AP) -The United States Olympic Committt>e said yesterday that its House of Delegates will meet April 11-13 to act on President Carter's request that the American team not compete in the Moscow Summer Games. Carter, repeatedly and as recently as Wednesday night, urged the USOC to refrain from sending a team to the Summer Games if Soviet troops are not withdrawn from Afghanistan by Feb. 20. Robert Kane, president of the USOC, said the White House had given no indi~ation t9 hi~ group that a decision must be made immediately. "We will abide by the president's decision," Kane said. 
Chrysler Corp. filesfor loan despite sales increase 
DETROIT (AP)-There's a possibility Chrysler Corp. may not have to borrow money at all under its $1.5 billion federal loan guitranree, but it is more likely it will use about $200 million, a top Chrysler financial executive said yesterday. But Chrysler still plans to qualify for the guarantees by March 31, said Executive Vice President Gerald Greenwald, because "We need that insurance policy." Any borrowing under the guaramee probably would come in the second quarter of this year, because that is when demands of the company's mvestment program will be heaviest. How much money is borrowed, if any, will depend on sales, so far better than expecred for 1980, Greenwald said. 


Weather 
Snow developing today and continuing through tomor.tQW. Lows tonight in the upper 20s. Highs today in the mid to upper 30s. Highs tomorrow in the mid 30s. 


Camn_,;,.,_u_s-~ 
Friday, February 15, 1980 
11-2 pm O.C. LUNCH at SENIOR BAR 
11:15 pm LECTURE, "motivation: an updating of the concepts," dr. judson brown, u. of oregon, HAGGAR H~LL 
3:30pm LECTURE, 'S'ascribing beliefs: ideas for a solution, prof. robert staln;ikpr, !=OTnell u., UB. LOUNGE 
5:15pm MASS AND DINNER, BULLA SHED 
7:30pm FILM, "the paper chase," ENGR. AUD. 
8 pm FILM, "welcome to ireland," sponsored by lions club travel, O'LAUGHUN AUD. 
9:30 pm NAZZ, john cuckovich, becky holthouse, chris albertoli. frank browne and nick matick 

Saturday, February 16, 1980 
10 am FENCING MEET, A.C.C. 
10:45 am CHICAGO TRIP, sponsored by big brothers/big sisters, meet at MAIN CIRCLE 
11 am SEMINAR, "religion and the famil>:: exploring a changing relationship," prof. william d'antonw, u. of conn., 
600 MEMORIAL UBRARY 
1-4:30 pm SOCIOLOGY SYMPOSIUM, prof. donald barrett, LAFORTUNE 
2 pm BASKETBALL, st. mary's vs butler u., ANGELA ATHLETIC FACIUTY 
9:30pm NAZZ, steve winum 

Sunday, February 17, 1980 
1 pm WRESTLING, nd vs drake, ACC 
5-6:30 pm DISCUSSION, "christianity and politics in latin america," martin garate, LEWIS HALL BASEMENT 
7 pm CONCERT, gospel soul, UB. AUD. 
7 pm ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING, an tostal, LAFOR­TUNE L17TLE THEATRE 
8 pm CONCERT, st. mary's and wabash college choirs, SMC L17TLE THEATRE 
The Board of Trustees of the 
Harry S. Truman Scholarship 
Foundation has approved an 
expansion of the Truman Scho­
larship Program by 26 scholars 
to a total of 79 scholars on a 
trial-basis for the 1980-81 aca­
demic year only, recording to 
the HonorableJohr W. Snyder, 
chairman of the Board of 
Trustees. 
He said the Board of Trustees 
approved the one-year trial 
expansion "after careful study 
of the Foundation's available 
reserves. ' ' 
Under the expansion plan, 26 scholars-at-large will be named for the 1980-81 academic year in addition to the 53 scholars that normally are selected an­nually. The 26 schofars-at­large will be recommended to the Board by the Foundation's 13 Regional Review Eahels. Each review panel will recom­mend two scholars-at-large and name two alternates, Snyder explained. 
Thus, the total program for 1980-81 will be 79 scholars, he added, stressing that the ex­pansion is currently being con­ducted on a trial-basis and that the Board of Trustees will discuss and review the possi­bility ofpermanently expanding the number of scholars during its scheduled meeting in April. 
Snyder said he belie.ves the expansion of the program will be particularly helpful in generating more awareness of and participation in The Tru­man Scholarship Pro~ram. 
Foundation Execuuve Secre­tary Malcolm McCormack said that the Foundation's endow­ment, which was established by Congress, is currently genera­ting sufficient funds to permit this one-time expansion. "Sim­ply speaking," he added, "at this time we have the funds available to support this trial­basis expansion of the Founda­tion's scholarships. " 
Since it began operations three years ago, the Truman Scholarship Foundation annual­ly has awarded 53 scholar­


_The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Margaret Ann Kruse Asst. Night Editor: John only knows Layout Staff. Mary Jo Silva, 
L. Kennedy, Gerdy Hewko, Mary Kasper, Joel Annable News Editor: Mike Lewis Editorial layout: Ann Gales Features layout: Moll} Woulfe, Tom Jackman Sports Layout: Mark Perry Typists: Kim Convey, Kathy Murray, Cindy Jones, Carol Shuback, Liz Huber EMT: Cindy Richers, Pat Shaughnessy Proofreader: Dan Ryan ND Day Editor: Keith Mel­aragno Guest Appearances: Hope you're feeling better, Mike! 
The Observer [USPS B 1211] Is publiahtd Mondly through Fridly a­capt during rum 1nd viCitilll plrilds. 
The Observer Ia publiallld by till students of NDtrl Dlllll _. Slillt Miry's Cllllgl. Sublcrlpllla IDlY Ill 
purdlaed r. sa per ,.... 1111 ,... IIIIIIIUrl frtm The ObServer. 1'.0. IIIII 
a. Nllrl b11111. llldllu 41&111. s..~ ella "::.1' pJid, Netrl Din, I• 
dlllll . 
The Observer II I .......... If 1111 
Alloclllld Prm. AH ••IIIIICIIIII 
rigllts lrl .-wei. 
ships--one to a resident nomi­nee in each of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and, considered as a single entity, Q:ua,m, the Virgin Islands, American-Samoa and the Pacific Trust Territories. Recently the first of 13 Regional Review Panels began consider­ing semifinalists as 1980 Tru­man Scholars. 
The Truman Scholarshio Foundation, established by Act of Congress as a living memori­al to the nation's 33rd Presi­dent, provides the Truman Scholar-a maximum of $5,000 per year for up to four years of college--covenng two years of undergraduate and two years of graduate studies. The scholars are selected through ·nation­wide competition and must be at the end of their sophomore year when they are hominated. 

In addition to being outstand­ing students, candidates are required to demonstrate a de­sire to serve their country via a long-range career interest in and . potential for government serv1ce. 
It's not too late••• ­





Sunday Masses at Sacred Heart Church 
5:15p.m. 9:00a.m. 10:30 a.m. 12:15 p.m.  Saturday Sunday Sunday Sunday  Rev. Robert Griffin, c.s.c. Rev. Thomas Blantz, c.s.c. Msg. John Egan Rev. William Toohey, c.s.c.  
7:15p.m.  Vespers  Msg. John Egan  

Any students interested in 
-Observer­Editorial Board or partment head positions 
for 1980-81? 


Contact PAUL at 7471 
Applications due Feb. 20 
r----~------~-~-----------,
I · PINOCCHIO'S! I Pizza Parlor 1
I 

Georgetown Shopping Plaza 1 



L WIN~~ SP~~!M.§l
I --$2 OFF T $1 OFF ! 
I any large pizza I any small pizza 1 


~-----------L------------~
1 Good Jan. thru Feb, 1980 only (iNew Sunday Hours Wide Screen TV I 
1 1-lOpm II HAPPY HOUR 'Pll PUIJ:I~!:> II I 4-6pm ~ 
I Monday thru Friday <IN I 

L------------------~------J 
--~-~-------­

The Observer Friday, February 15, 1980 -page j 



U.S. reaches tentative 


agreement with Iran 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Carter administration dismis­sed repuns yesterday that Am­erican hostages in Iran could be released by the weekend and called on Iranian-authorities to clarify their demands. 
"We are going to have to see sume more definition" of what the Iranians want in exchange fi•r freeing the hostages, said Hodding Caner, the State De­panment spokesman. 
Reports circulated Wednes­day in Washington that U.S. and Iranian negotiators had reached a tentative agreement that could lead to freedom for the approximately 50 Ameri­cans who have been held hos­tage since the U.S. Embassy in Tehran was seized Nov. 4. 
Blll a senior State Depart­ment official told reporters yesterday that "you would die several rimes over if you held your breath " for the hostages' irnrnment release. 
l'hese remarks were not meant to rcvnse President Carter's announcement Wednesday ntght of "positive signs" in the negotiations to end the crisis. -··!-:very body is considerably ahead of the process,'' said Jody Powell, the White House press secretary, after a meet­ing with President Carter. 
He said the news media ''are running a little rapidly" in their optimistic forecasts of a break­thmugh in the 103-day stale­mate. 
l'he reports were based on an interview Iranian President Abolhassan Bani-Sadr had with Italian RAJ television in Teh­ran. 
In the interview, Bani-Sadr indicated that Iranian revolu­

. tiunary leader Ayatollah Ruhol­lah Khomeini had accepted a plan that could lead to freeing of the hostages. Part of the plan includes establishment of an international commission, under U.N. auspices, to in­wst igate Iranian complaints against the United States. 
At his news conference Wednesday, President Caner indicated willingness for the first tune to accept such a com­mtsston. 
ltllli-Sadr also repeated his demand that the United States acknowledge past "Crimes" in Iran during the reign of the Shah,. "Whether and when the American hostages would be 

Soviets napalnt rebels 
KABUL· Afghanistan (AP) ­Soviet ranks and at least one MG-23 fighter bomber battled what was believed to be a rehell ious Afghan army unit this ·.veek near Kabul, witnes­ses rr:'p!,rted. The;' said they believed the MIG dropped na­palm bombs and that an unde­termined number of persons 
were injured. 
In the northeast, a Soviet armored column suffered se­vere casualties when it came under heavy attack this week by ami-communist ,Afghan rebels, reliable dtplomatic reports said. 
The SO\ tets, who have been in Afghanistan since late Decem­ber and presently have an estimated 90,000 troops there, were trying to relieve a rebel­surrounded Afghan army garri­son, they said. 
There was no official comment on ett her report. 
Meanwhile, the status of So­viet-backed President Babrak Karma!, who has not been seen in public for more than a week, remained obscure. 
Witnesses 111 Afghanistan said the Soviets fought a , sharp hour-long battle Monday in the village of Cargha, 12 miles north of Kabul. 
Western dtplomats in the vici­nity S<IW Soviet infantry and tanks going into action against an army barracks in the village of the Soviet-trained Afghan army. 
The MIG was seen dropping a cluster of small bombs, follo­wed by a cloud of black smoke rising from the ground. The witnesses said they believed tht. bombs were incendiary devices made of napalm, chem­icals added to gasoline or oil to furm a jellylike substance used in bombs. 
Ambulances here seen remov­ing an unknown number of casu:J lities, some to the military ho:,pital in Kabul. Afghan police prevented the diplomats approaching close enough to the barracks to get a clear view. 
All resistance apparently was crushed within an hol.lr. 
Titere have been widespread reports of Red Army troops going into action against Af­ghan mutineers. The diplomat­ic reports said the Soviet armor­ed c·.>lurnn came under heavy rebc I attack early this week in the non h-eastern province of Badakshan while approaching the rebel-surrounded Afghan army garrison in the provincial capttal, Fayzabad. 
The reports said the Soviets suHcred severe casualties when the\· were attacked after cros­sing the Pamir River marking the border near the town of Horog in Soviet Turkmenistan. 
Fayzabad, in the foothills of the Hindu Kush mountains 200 miles northeast of Kabul, is unJer control of loyal Afghan tro•>ps. the sources said. but the town itself is completely sur­rm.nded and cut off by rebel forces. 
Sporadic operations by anri­CPrnmunist rebels in the moun­tal!lou:; countryside are be­lieved to have cost che Red Army several hundred ·dead thus far. 
13ut the Soviets, with some 91),00d men in the country supported by a huge array of tanks, artillery, fighter planes and helicopter gunships, ap­pean·d firmly in control of the large-st cities and main com­muniCations routes. 


released depends on the U.S. attitude," Bani-Sadr said. 
13ut President Carter ruled out accepting blame for the U.S. role in restoring the Shah to the 
throne in Iran In  1953.  
However,  this  left  open the  
p<>S- 

Stbility that the United States could make some carefully worded statement about U.S: support for the Shah during his 37-year reign. 
NHTcalls Pinto 'safe' 
WINAMAC, IND. (AP) -The former head of the National Highway Traffic safety Admin­istration said yesterday rhe 1973 Ford Pinto was "reason­ably safe'' compared with other sub-compacts and should not have been recalled bec·tuse of alleged fire hazards. 
Douglas W. Toms, who headed the Federal Agency from 1969-7 3, testified in Ford Motor Co.'s criminal liability trial that the Pinto ''was a very conventional automobile.'' 
Ford is charged with three counts of reckless homicide in the August 1978 burning deaths of three young women in a 1973 
Pinto that exploded  when  hit  
from  behind  on  a  Northern  
Indiana highway.  

The state contends Ford reck­lessly designed the Pinto, knowing the fuel tank was subject to explode in rear-end collisions, but sold the cars anyway without warning the public. 


The Paper Chase 
Friday, Saturday, Sunday 
Producers: Robert C. Thomp­Feb. 15,16,17 son, Rodrick Paul 

7,9,and 11pm 
Director: James Bridges Cast: Lindsay Wagner, John Houseman, Timothy Bottoms in the 

ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM! 
"Captures the day-to-day tensions in a class on contract Admission: $1 law with a crusty old profes­sor (brilliantly played by Members Free 
John Houseman), the petty sponsored by 
rivalries within a study group, the panic of those long all­nighters spent cramming for exams ... amusing and con­vincing." -Stephen Farber 
New York Times 

5U 





COUNTRY 
111 N.t/. AV~ A r A NII 
e • e • e ~~~ . I 0 
f'I(£Sf~TI~~ fl-IE fl~&t?T L'f k}O TRE-PAM~ TA-LE~ T 
WEEK£ND OF MUSt 
~~~ KUt?l?£~ t?AND J~Mlf. ~ODDKlGU HARRY N£U'5. 

is having it's first ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING Sunday February 17th 
7°0 

PM La Fortune little Theater 
Everyone is invited and encouraged to attend. 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY! 
----------------------------------~~ 

The Observer 

Friday, February 15, 1980 -page 4 


nation's second-largest city as th<.: fi1s1 strike ever by Chicago firefighters left fire protection t(H-5.5 million people up to a f<.:w non-strikers, supervisory (J<.:rsonnel, fire Academy ca­d<.:ts and other city workers with help from suburban depart­m<.:rHs. 
By early afternoon no major fi r<.:s had been reported. 
l'he main issue in the dispute was the city's refusal to grant firefighters a written contract mstead of the traditional hand­shak<.: agreement unless the un­
ion agr<.:ed to a no-strike clause anJ binding arbitrati-on. 
l'he strike came three days after public school teachers <.:nded a two-week walkout to protest layoffs and delayed 
paydH:cks. Last December employees ~>f the Chicago Tran: sll Authonty walked out for several days in a contract dis­
pute. 

l'he strikers violated a tem­porary restraining order issued by a Circuit Coun judge when the walkout began. Later, city attorneys went back to court and asked for a preliminary in-
ti'';,0.A ~g the fire­
13LH the strikers apparently were not moved, "It doesn't mean anything," said one. "Whether we obey a coUrt or­der or not depends only on what our union president says.'' 
I I I 
Mardi Gras 
Corruption inquiry begins 
NEW ORLEANS (AP) -An FBI informant bought $10,000 in tickets for a campaign function for an unsuccessful candidate for Louisiana governor, the candidate's attorney saidJes­terday as a federal gran juq, began looking into the govern­ment corrupuon inquiry known as Brilab. 
Meanwhile, Gov. Edwin Ed­wards testified before another federal grand jury investigating campaign contributions and said he was also to testify before the grand jury investiga­ting Brilab--a coven. govern­ment probe into suspected pub­lic and labor corruption. 
The grand juries are al?parent­ly c_onsidering overlapptng alle­gatiOns. 
Camille Gravel, the attorney for Public Service Commission Chairman and former guberna­torial candidate Louis Lambert, said the $10,000 "was a cam­paign contribution for the pur­chase of tickets to some kind of an affair. '' 
Lambert was called to testify before the Brilab grand jury, but Gravel said he had been told the panel was running late and would not need Lambert until next Thursday. 
At an impromptu news confer­ence, Gravel said he did not know how many tickets were involved, saying the event was "some kind of testimonial" held last November when Lam­bert was unsuccessfully cam­paigning against Republican David Treen in the GOP runoff. Treen won the runoff and the election. He takes office next month. 
Gravel said the tickets were bought by Joseph Hauser, an FBI informant who repeatedly posed as an insurance company agent in the undercover Brilab probe. _ 
Lambert was with his attor­ney, but declined any wrong­doing. 

Meanwhile, other witnesses waited to testify before the grand juries at the federal courthouse. Harmon Roy, cam­paign treasurer for the losing gubernatorial campaign of state Sen. Edgar "Sonny" :Mouton·, hired a hotel bellhop to cart in 
seven boxes of records.  Others  
carried  more  than  a  dozen  
boxes.  

Io the Brilab operation, FBI agents allegedly paid bribes to ufficials and others in Louisi­ana, Texas, Oklahoma and Ar­kansas. In Louisiana, the payoffs allegedly were made to 1ry to win--for a company identified as Prudential Insur­ance Company--a public em­ployees' health insurance con­traer. 
Among those due to testify was Jeff David, campaign trea­surer for the unsuccesstul gu­bernatorial campaign for Lam­bert. He had more than a dozen boxes on his dolly. 
• • • Hostages 
(continued from page 1] 

And from White House spokesman Jody Powell: "Ev­erybody is considerably ahead of the process.'' He added that the news media are ''running a little rapidly." 
Iranian officials said they hoped the inquiry would lead to freedom for the Americans, held for 103 days by Islamic militants at the U.S. Embassy in Tehran. 
President Abolhassan Bani­Sadr said he hoped setting up of the panel, along with "other initiatives," would provide "conditions for a solution of this problem.'' 
The hostages could be freed in ''a matter of 48 hours'' if Washington accepted condi­tions set by his government, Bani-Sadr said in his interview with the Italian RAI television. Over the past few days, he has said conditions include the pan­el and U.S. acknowledgement that America commttted "crimes" in Iran over the past 25 years. 
President Carter has ruled out accepting blame for a U.S. role in restoring Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi to the throne in 1953. But this left open the possibility for some careful statement in the future that the United States supported the de_posed Shah in his 3 7 -year retgn. 
Iran's Foreign Minister Sa degh Ghotbzadeh, meanwhile, said at a news conference in Rome, which he is currently visiting: "I would say as soon as the process (setting up the commission) takes place that the problem of the hostages can be resolved.'' He expressed hope it would be set up within three days. 
CHICAGO (AP) -Most of Chicago's 4,350 firefighters walke,l out of station houses in ddiance of a court order yester­day and refused to answer fire calls, hitting the city with its th11·d major public employees strike in two months. 
Maynr Jane Byrne called it "a sad and sick day'' for rhe 
(continued from page 1] reached for comment. 

ln spite of these problems, Day expressed a the early going that could have been avoided hopeful outlook for the upcoming weekend. by a more experienced staff,'' Morin explai­Day pointed out that Mardi Gras has taken in ned. 
close to $15,000; and it stands to make roughly
Another problem that was cited by Morin was 
an additional $5,000 by the end of this
the lack of dealers at some booths. "This 
weekend.

absence of dealers is unfortunate, because the past evenings have indicated that those booths Day also stated that the beneficiaries of Mardi with the most help have made the most Gras--the Notre Dame charities--make the money," Morin pointed out. event worthwhile. "The money goes to such 
Another disappointment, according to Morin, campus groups as CILA * Neighborhood Study 2~26 UNCOLNWA Y WEST, MIS H. was WSND's cancellation ofits live broadcasts. W8P· the Logan Center, and others," Day
259-8110 

Jim O'Brien, WSND manager, cowd not be
51313 US 31 NORTH, SO. BEND 277-6355 
The Observer 
In ''Evening Ne~s'' 
Rather to succeed Cronkite 
NEW YORK (AP) -Dan tion that Rather would sign with of first-person sidebars," he Rather, the "60 Minutes" cor­another network and one report said. · respondent who gained national said he had received an $8 
Rather had been consideredattention by his qpestioning of million offer from ABC. 
for at least the last four or fiveRichard Nixon during the Leonard would not discuss years a prime candidate for theWatergate scandal, will suc­terms of Rather's new contract, job. The only other nameceed Walter Cronkite early which he said had been signed mentioned as frequently was next year as anchorman of the late that afternoon. Rather ack­that of CBS colleague Roger"CBS Evening News," the knowledged "very serious" Mudd, who still sits in fornetwork announced yesterday. consideration of offers from Cronkite when the anchormanCBS News President Bill other networks. 
is on vacation or on assignment. 
Leonard said Rather, 48, would Rather said he found the rapid Mudd's future, however, gen­take over for Cronkite, televi­development of events "a little erally was felt to have beension's best-known journalist, as unbelievable" and said he was eclipsed by Rather's rising star, anchorman and managing edit­humbled by the appointment. 
which began its ascent 10 the or of the "Evening News." ''I'm a line reporter," he said. 
early '70s, when the Texas-bornHe said Rather had signed a ''That's what I always wanted newsman covered the White 
long-term contract for the job to be, that's what I have been, House for CBS. 
on the top-rated nightly news and that's what I will continue show. There had been specula-to be.'' 
"Sitting in that chair, I want to be in the Walter Cronkite mold, in the Edward R. Murrow mold before him; I want to be the
Shanabruch 
Friday, February 15, 1980 -page 5 
NAVY 

NUCLEAR ·PROPULSION. 
THE FASTEST WAY UP IN NUCLEAR ENGINEERING. 

lf You want to get lnto nuclear engineering, start by getting into the !'Juclear Navy. The Navy operates more than half the reactors in America. Our nuclear training is the most comprehensive. You start by earning your commission as a Navy Officer. 
Then we give you a yearofadvanced nuclear training. Dwi.ng your career, you'D get practical, hands-on experience with our nuclear powered fleet. 
If that sounds like the kind of responsibility you're looking for, speak to the Naval Officer Representative when he visits your Placement Office on 19 & 20 February or 
call (collect) 312-657-2169. 
I· 

'NOTICEU ' 
best at bringing thenewsto the Due to an enot In the The Obsetvet, the Rivet City Recotdsl people.'' 
wms 
• Cronkite, 63, will continue in sale ad did not tun as scheduled last Ftiday. Thetefote, his present position, probably 
through the presidential inaug­Rivet City Recotd• has decided to oHet the same sale uration next January.
award "And I'm going to continue to ptlces to Notte Dame and St. ffiaty's students, faculty , be very acnve with CBS after that,'' he said in an interview and staH thi~ Thutsday, Ftiday, Satutda9 and Sunday
Dr. Charles H. Shanabruch, several hours before the an­
economic development coordi­nouncement. • . F b· 1~ 17
11 · ·· e.-.-.
~r 

nator for the Beverly Area Cronkite is a former foreign
Planning Association in Chica­correspondent for United Press go, has been named winner of 
(now United Press Inter­the 1979 competition for the national). He joined CBS News 
best manuscript in American 1n ) u!y 1950 and has anchored Catholic studies. The annual the "Evening News" since competition, sponsored by the 1962. 
Center for the Study of Ameri­Millions associate his pres­can Catholicism at Notre Dame, ence with the top stories of the provides a cash award of $500 past two decades, includingand a publishing contract with America's space program and 
• 
Notre Dame Press. 
the political conventions. 
Shanabruch's manuscript, 
"Toward an American Catholic Cronkite said he "Very prob­
Identity: The Chicago Ex­
ably'' would pick up the optionperience," examines the im­on his contract in November pact of immigration from 1833 1981, and continue to report for to 1924. It traces the develop­CBS News. "I would like veryment of ethnic associations and much to have the opportunity,the struggle of the Roman mostly on my discretion, to goCatholic church to maintain out on the big stories, to do sort 
unity of faith in the midst of diversity. By focusing on both religion and ethnicity, the au­thor's study explains an impor­tant aspect of the dy.namics of 
Meeting
urban development. 
Shanabruch studied at LaSalle College in Philadelphia before receiving his Ph.D. degree at ofND the University of Chicago in 1976. 
Competition for the 1980 book 
Texas Club 
award of the Center is now underway. The series is not i limited to studies in one disci­There will be a regular busi­pline, and manuscripts from ness meeting of the Notre both the historical and sociolo­Dame Texas Club on Monday at gical 'areas will be considered. 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Entries must be submitted to Ballroom. the Center for the Study of All ND I SMC students from Americah Catholicism, 1109 T<.>xas are urged to come. Plans Memorial Library, Notre Dame, will be discussed for upcoming Indiana, 46556, by September social events. For information 
1. rail Mike Sis at 3538. 
ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES. 
Join a great officer team of engineers C?-nd architects who build for the Navy. Plan, de_s_1gn, construct and maintain shore-based fac1llt1es and undersea structures, worldwide. Exercise leadership and take on responsibipties yo~ng civilian engineers rarely have-while meet1ng requirements for registration as a PE. Excel­lent pay housing and medical benefits. 
See' the Naval Officer representative when he visits your placement office on 
19 and 20 February 
Want f· ;;tel' ac·ion? Call LT Dave Barthold {J: 2) 657-2169 (collect) 
--~;: ~~VY'S .~t\JEER. ,.,lb~~c
CIV· .. 



Editorials 
Friday, February 15, 1980 -page 6 
P. 0. Box Q Is freedon1 -worth fighting for? 
Though there was a small
Crane a strong Marc S. Murphy
turnout this year (possibly due1 to the weather or poor adver·anti -abortion risement) all in attendance en• It was cold as I walked home had ro fight, or anything. But before. In fact, I was th~re. joyed themselves complet~ly. J'r,,m the rally late last night. what you kids don' r always Only this rime Afghanistan, not The Blues Festival, unlike any A, a reflex I grumbled to myself realize is that, above all else, Poland is the first step. Thecandidate other activity offered, provides that the weather up here really you've had the most p-recious pattern can't be ignored."the chance to see master Blues '>links. Damn, I hate snow. blessing that a man could "I don't know," I said, "I Dear Editor: artists in a relaxing and enjoy~ And that ,. i11d . my face was have.·· think you're taking this whole able atmosphere. i'r"zen. L gets lone-ly, too, "What's that?", I was inter­thing too seriously.'' 
I 
In response to Monday's letter In closing, we hope that the walk1ng home at night. I must ested now. "Kid, you might say that I 'to the editor, we feel we must Student Union will realize that have been especially lonely last · ·1;reedom. That's what your took it dead serious, once. And strongly dispute the claim of the Midwest Blues Festival is 111glll. because as I passed the dad fought for ... '' besides, aren't the stakes too Ronald Reagan's supporter that greatly apprt"ci'!-ted. by all who n·mer ny I thought I heard a "Oh come on I" high to gamble?'' Rt'agt.rl is the only Republican attend. Canceling It wou1d be V<llLT. Turning around, I saw .....and wnat I died for." "Maybe," I said, "Hut above presidential candidate who is a terrible mistake, and would n<> one else on the-sidewalk, l'his statement, or the cold, all of that, the Bible itself says anti-abortion. While the action further aggravatf' many of the and real1zni that the voice had made me shiver. He pressed not to kill." Reagan has taken on this issue students who already feel there L, Hl1L' from the cemetery itself. Oil: "And," he added, "Turn the in the past is unclear, Rep. are too few things to do on ~" kidd1ng. I stopped dead in ··You haY(:' freedom of speech, other check, right?" 
Philip Crane from Illinois has campus. my rraLb and forgot all about press, and assembly. Your . 'l{ight. '' 
Mark]. Cunneen
r co-sponsored a bill calling for a t lie cold. Then I heard the voice basic human rights are protec· .. And," he continued, "that's
MarkShary
r human life amendme•Jt to the aga111, this time calling out. ted. For instance, where were a very personal and indepen­r U.S. Constitution. yuu corning from just now?" dent decision on your pan.
"Hey,kd."

r Crane, 49, an acknowledged I hesitated. "An Anti-draft Whet her you do or not is your
r Accusation of ~eedless ro say, I was shakin'
leader in the House of Repre· rally." own business, right?"
in my boots.

r st·ntatives and the first man in "I thought so." He stared at "Right again!"
"/fey, buddy, wait up!"

either party declare his the gmund for a moment, and · · ;\nd if your mother was
to candidacy, is a devout Christian 'blatant sexism~ ;\t this a dark figure rose from then right at me. being assaulted you'd ask her
b(·hind one of the stones and 

.. Yuu dun' t want to fight?", ru please turn the other cheek,and has always been staunchly 
approached me. Now, this was 
he asked.

~ 
anti-abortion. In theCongress· unbelievable right' .. 
not your ordinary ghost. His

man's own words, "I have "I don't even want to register.
helmer, fatigues, and combat I hesllared. I'd never really
agiven this decision a great deal I believe that the draft is

bollts were right out of any John thought about it that way
of consideration and have con­Dear Editor: denial of certain basic rights.
Wayne w·ar movie you've eve-r lwfore. Certainly I would
lksides, I've got a career; IcitJded that the value of human seen. He glided right through protell her. J' d protect my
life is most important to me." Pity the fate of poor Diane want to be a lawyer."
t l1e chain link fence and whole family, and all of my
Crane is married. has eight ] efchak, an abused graduate "I didn't want to fight, either."
s1upped a few feet from me. friends. Was ir the same as 
children, and was also named student who finally gave in l·ur sum<: reason, maybe · · I'hen you copped out," I f1ghting in a war? Before I "Statesman Father of the under the oppression of Notre aLLUSed.
bn ausc of his comical getup or could ask him he spoke up.
Year'' in 1979. Dame injusttce. Pity poor Ik just laughed. But ir had a
ills straight-forward approach, I "The words of the Bible are 
It i:s unfortunate that the Diane who is forced to exist in s< .Jemn, weary tone-. 
wasn· 1 scared anymore. Divinely-1nspired ideals to live
'Kid," he said, "I admire 
•
Reagan backers chose to mis­the realm of the Satan of "I w.111na talk to you, kid," he by· ... he said. "Unfortunately
represent the issue. But Satans, the Notre Dame male Y''ur naive attitude. Unfortu·
if s;ud. nor all of humanity, including,
narely, the world won't. It's notabortion is indeed the most chauvinist. Pity poor Diane 'Wiw. mei" I was giving fur example, your mother's
your fault, really."

who is · forced to read that
important issue of this cam· my'>elf a chance to figure this attacker and Nazi Germany,
pa1gn, and if we do want a monument to sexism, that pilfar "What do you mean, Joe?"
wlwlt' thing out. abide by these same Christian 
president who is a strong, of Playboyism, The Observer. "Yeah", he replied, "I gotta 'Well, you've never had any­idcak You guys are big on young leader, then Philip M. Pity poor Diane who is forced to o~,.,k yuu some questions.'' tiling bur good times, basically. 
human rights, correct?" Crane is our man. use her precious study time to ·'Oka), hut first let me ask you y,,u·ve always been free, and expose her plight. The tears '"me." It seemed only fair, Y''u think that it is as natural as "Well, that's certainly an area Tom jackman are rolling down my cheeks. and he obliged. breathing. You can't rernern­of concern... '' Phtf Crane Campaign Really, Diane, who are you ·'What, I mean, who, are bn how I literallv had -to die so ·'To whar lengths are you Committee trying to kid? In four years at \'OU I. that yuu and you'r friends could wil,ling to protect these rights? .......--..··-·-·..--------Notre Dame I have yet to see a '"~ame's Joe," he answered, enjuy these advantages. Like Do vou believe that your res­letter so full of what makes the .. ,rnd I wenr to Notre Dame a an)·rh111g important, you have to pon~ibility to your fellow manBlues Festival grass grow as I saw Feb. 8. k·w years back.'' J,,se i1 to appreciate it.'' ends when you yourself are Talk about a hypocritical point 'In the 70's?", I asked. "StPp right there," I deman­endangered? I don't think so. to make with a senseless argu· . 1 <)..j) ... ded. I was getting pretty Registering for the draft simply 
relaxing 

ment, your letter borders on the ··oh. s,, where did you get d1sgusrt·d.. "Don't be gettin' means that you are willing, if unbelie~able. that cnstumei" p.uriotic and moral on me, man. necessary, to defend with ac­
and enjoyable Diane,· are you telling the "In the Army. I quit school to There's no threat rn the United ti<ll·l·s what you claim to believe student bo9y of Notre Dame )"Ill up back during World S1.t1es tuday, no one would Ill. that you have never told or War IJ." dare. And besides, the Bible "Nothing is free. Don't you 
Dear Editor: laughed ar a joke about the says ... ·· He stopped me. feel any responsibility toward
"Yeah? We read all about 

helping preserve the advanta·
opfosite sex? Are you trying to nat in Freshman Seminar. .. Whoa · one poim at a time. This letter is written in re· tel me that your first criterion Where did you, uh ... '' I caught Wherlwr you accept it or not, ges that you enjoy? And 
sponse w a recent front pa~e for whether or not you talk to a myself. nor every·one in the world believe me . they have to be Observer article in which extt· guy at a bar or a dance is not his ·l;cr killed?", he inserted. respects the United States as preserved, or they'll be lost!" He stopped. And then conclu­
ing Student Union officers and physical appearance? Last .. ~.mnandy, after we hit the nu.ch as we do. Sure, its got its Student Body President Bill Friday The Observer was trying beach. Some of my buddies got troubles. Lord knows its nor ded, saying: Roche, voiced their opinions on to throw a little humor into one it there, too. Ir was prerry bad, pcrkcr; tar'from it. And I think "Listen, kid, I wouldn't have tht• continuation of the Midwest oftheir dry daily issues and you bur I got no regrets. Ya' see, that irs good that you college bothered you rtmight if I wasn't Blues Festival. find your all too btuisable we were gonna "Free the k1ds are letting it be known that worried. I've had my life, a 
Cancel the Midwest Blues feminme ego deflated. French", and they did, too. you care. Shoot, in my time we good one, to~>. Me and theJuys
Festival? Never! The Midwest I have yet to meet a person That was the beginning of the all just accepted everything as here were JUSt concerne for Blues Festival is one of the who was offended by the pic, end for Hitler. And I'd say it ideal, and that was wrong. But you, and your buddies. We most exciting and enjoyable ture in question. I have yet to was worth it, too. There's no 
there:· s a lor of good here, WDuldn' t want you to be sorry 
events held yearly at Notre meet SQmeone who interpreted tellin' where he would've ( 00. someday. Like I said, it's Dame. that picrure ro mean that wo­swppcd. But now you kids "I don't know ... " happened before. I'm justIf money really does not enter men are "edible quantities.'' hJVl' it better than any other "Okay, I'll put it this way, kid; askin' you one thing; don't go
into the decision to discontinue And, I have yet to meet general ion in the history of the where would you rather live?" 
and lose what me and the guys
rh~ Festival, then what is the someone who felt this picture world! 
fought for. We believed then 
problem? A campus activity was in the best traditions ofsex "Hey now, wait a minute! "Palm Springs." He wasn't and now that it's worth it. If need not attract all students. In discrimination. You· restarting to sound like my amused. you only knew... " 
"You know what I mean.", he
fact, it is often better when dad.··
You know Diane, if you need He paused, turned, and star­rhere is a sincere following something to jump up and down "He a vet?" said. ted for the cemetary. Just 
instead of a "herd of catde.'' about, why don'tyou try world "Yeah, he says that we don't "Well," J stopped. He was before I lost him behind one of The aniwde of the Student hunger, or world peace, or even know how good we've got right. This clown was getting to the stones he turned around Union further exemplifies the it. .. me.
crime, or pollution, or any and formed the peace sign with 
uniformity expected from the, .. Your old man's right. The "So you'd rather be an Ameri­
number of REAL problems in his left hand. I couldn't figure
ND society. There seems to be roughest thing in your life so far can, with all of its problems,
our world? I don't know about it out at first, but then remem­
a feeling that if everyone does has probably been a Double right?"
you Diane, but I think you and bered that in his day two
''!guess so.''

not participate, then no one the Notre Dame distaff have it Emil!" finger<; ir! :t ' ,!" also meant 
should. There are eight or nine "You know about Emil?" "Well, whether it's clear to
pretty good, and our campus 
you or not, there are people in ''vicwr) \'(.'. had our peacethousand students at Notre paper does its best to please "Never got below a 5!" twca11!'-·~ ~. ,.. ;. "':'Wry. Should
Dame, all with different charac­I'd better listen to this guy, I this world who will try to take 
everyone. But if your ego is 
thoughL ail of thi_ ·way from you.'' ·.·.rc br '' ·~ ',.. to defend thatteristics and interests. Trying 
offended b:r\ The Observer, 
· -,~ ..il• "., ·:cide then, butto force them all into a certain "But anyway, that's not the Here we ro 'g&IO, J Lhoughr.
don't read it; and ifNom: fl~t'me 
mold i5 n,Jt only unreasonable, :~ point," he continued, ''I'm ''Surely you c.on' r rt:allv belit: ve :~sur; ..,. · ·: ·:f.c home.
fuii of sdist desctimlnation, that the Sov;et ;_ " · I di,: :~•· :il last night. Ibut also unfair to those who prnuj of the aJvamages that
leave. 

yJJu. have, and that you've neve;r '"I do," he said, "I've seen it kept ti"'·.s.,:;,_, :.'1. vut my mother.

wish ·tl) pursue their own enjoy-DonaldGeif:Y' ~m~e~n~t~s~·----~~----~--~--------------~----~------~--~~~~----~--~------~--------~~----~-----.~... ~.--.~--~---~~~·~·~----------­
The Observer -Editorials Friday, February 15, 1980 -page 7 
Powerlessness: The farmworkers' plight 
"Yes, andhow many times can a man turn his head, pretending he just doesn't see?" 
The history of the migrant farmworker in the Midwest can be summed up in one word: ·powerlessness. These workers on the underside of the Ameri­can Dream help to put food on millions of American dinner­tables, but one would never know it. Until very recently, no voice spoke up for the farm­worker, and unless one hears thc:;m, one doesn't know they exist. Such "non-existence" is the epitomy of powerlessness. 
The issue currently being dis­cussed on campus, the Farm­worker Referendum, has a lot to do with he!pin~ . to give the farmworker a votce. The efforts of the Farm Labor Organizing Committee (FLOC) in Ohio have aimed at making the farmworker heard in the board­rooms of the Campbell Soup Company, the Libby Company, etc. Without a voice there-­where the bulk of the power lies--these companies can and do act as if those farmworkers do not exist. In refusing even to hear them out and to recognize the organization they have formed, the companies cankeep them as powerless now as they have been for years past. 
In Ohio, it is companies such as Campbell's and Libby's who make the first (and the deter­mining) moves in the world of agri-business. In the winter they determine the price they will pay growers for tomatoes harvested in the coming fall. They next arrange contracts 
Y&5, ITM/..1.. TAt£ MOR£ 7H/IN fKJRTJI?a<Y &XP!?£55/0N5 /18a!T llWJ&I?SHIP 70f?EGTOI?& aJR 
{ FLAGGING NATIONAL fOI{f/j/11&5. ~ 7HAT'S PIHYI'M RJJNN/NG
• AN!J 711AT'5 tv!IYI Nt3&1? ~ Yll'IR Sl/fflJ!<T! 
"/ 
Anne Huber 

with certain individual growers of their choosing, based on that set price. The grower then plants the crop and, through an Intermediary, hires migrant farm labor to help in its cultivation and harvest. What wage the grower pays these workers comes out of the price dictated to the grower by the companies. It is this chain of events that is the focus of the farmworker issue. 
In asking consumers a.nd or­ganizations to stop buying pro­ducts from the Campbell and Libby companies, the farm­workers hope to make their voice heard at the beginning of the chain--at the time when the price that eventually impacts on the farmworker is set by the companies. As it stands now, the companies set the price deliberately not allowing the farmworker a voice in its determination. Consumers and organizations showing their diiapproval of this practice could encourage the companies to admit the farmworkers into the price deliberations which now explicitly exclude them. 
The farmworkers in Ohio are not asking for the $40,000-plus salaries of the company execu­tives. They are not asking to have power over the companies (as the companies now have over them), but rather to have some power alongside that of the companies. The power they are asking for now is just to be heard, ana in being heard, to be recognized as the voice speak­ing up for the heretofore voice­less and powerless farmworker in the Midwest. Is it such a great thing to ask? 
THANK Ya/.
tve NANT 
COUt/J Ya'
~N! 
7ULM&HW
tv& tv/INT 
m r£T 70 THe
ANPEI<50N! 
BIJS 5TitTION?
\ 
/ 
9/?AVO!
• YtAA! 
\ 

in tn . . . ·.. . ..s~me reve ptcl<U~(:ling· --·--·'-•. ·•_·. . . · ~xpenstve ,prote 
most requrre expen<litures or th,e • management of. even~ attended. by large numbers of people, These charactensttcs and others .. : were ·<::onsideted acceptable, nondiscri,~ minatory reasons for . different per capitij)• . average expenditures.~'< . · . Y 
What 11re we afraid of, Notre Dame? If we tllt1 show that pur budget disparities are based.o;f! nori~disctiminatory factors (as we already assen) then w~should not be soalarm.ed at the prospect of complying with the law, It is only th(! defensive position our administrators have take.n • wat rriak~s me wonder if,. jn fact, we have somttthing t6ll~de. 
· 
Presidential politics 
Campaign system atfault 
A few weeks ago, Jimmy Carter was criticized in an opinion column by Pat Toomey fqr staging a "rose garden" campaign. "In 1976," Toomey asserted, "Jimmy Carter promised a govern­ment 'as honest and decent as the American people.' In 1980, he is playing these same American people for the fool.'' This argument seems highly incongruous in light of the character of the American political system. 
Wednesday evening, Carter himself dispelled the criticisms of his campaign effort by emphasizing the enormous amount of time that the current state of American foreign affairs demands of him. It is important to note that even if Carter could afford to devote some time to debating his Democratic opponents, it is imperative. that he forces the Iranian students and the Soviet leaders to believe that a crisis situation exists. That is, Carter must l?roject, at the very least, the image of a crists. If the students and the Russians learned that Carter was campaigning, they would certainly take his stern messages a lot less seriously, inasmuch as Carter would seem to be giving foreign issues merely secondary consideration. 
More importantly, are we afraid that our president is finally becomin,g a politician? One of the prime reasons that Carter has had so much trouble passing his legislation--for which we criticize him so much--is that he has been unfamiliar with . the political ins and outs of dealing with Congress. We elected Carter as an outsider, a political virgin, but can we realistical­ly expect him to ignore all the helpful ''tricks of the trade" which come to him in three years as President? 
Campaigning is an unfortunate part of our political system. Out of fairness, however, we must let Carter fight fire with fire. He's learning that appearances count for much more than reality in politics, and he now understands that if Kennedy can vault his way to the presidency on sheer image, then he must play the game and brighten his own image in order to retain the top job. . 
Carter is thus only doing what he needs to do to 
john Ferroli 

win the presidential race in 1980. The American people are only ''fools'' for putting up with such a degrading and excessive campaign system. Carter, like Nixon and Ford before him, is merely reacting rationally to the requirements of the system. Of course, Carter did criticize the "rose garden" campaign of Ford, but that criticism was spoken by an outsider, a man who 
· had not yet been exposed to the inconquerable demands of the system. Carter has gone through an essential process of learning since 1976, and we should not upbraid him for it. The president isn't "above" politics--he's got to get elected just like every other candidate. Carter has inherited the presidential privilege of waging a "rose garden" campaign. The question remains whether he is really shunning Kennedy or Brown at all. After participating in two major contests in Iowa and Maine, does Carter really need to engage in debates in order to "clarify the issues?" It seems that Carter wants to avoid not a more "open" government but a more divided government, an administra­tion that has been publicly sranked with criticisms which are obvious to al sides at the outset anyway. Teddy and Jerry aren't goin~ to reveal anything new to us or Jimmy Carter tn a debate. But they will act to subvert Carter's attempts to engender serious foreign and domestic policy by unifying the U.S. behind his administration. The crucial issue is not whether we should indict Jimmy Carter for his savvy campaign tactics but whether greater limits should be imposed on campaign spending, whether the mass media should engage in more judicious coverage of political candidates, and whether the onerous electoral filters, i.e., the polls, the debates, and even the primaries, are really necessary. If Kennedy had his way, he would have been harrying Carter from 1976 on. It appears that it is the campaign system which makes government "closed" or "dishonest" rather than the individual candidates. Jimmy Carter is playing the game the way it should be played, and we should all be happy to kno~ it. 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board an~ Department Managers 
-The Observer_ The news is reported as accurately and 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ........Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ............. .....Mark Perry" represent the opimon of a majority of Ma11;aging Editor.......... Diane Wilson Features Editor .....Kathleen Connelly Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor .............. Ann Gales Photo Editor ..... ......... Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor......... M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail-Executive News Editor .... .. Mike Lewis Business Manager ........Steve Odland ­newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor .................... Mark Rust Production Manager ... Johri McGrath ofthe University of Notre Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News Editor ................ .Mike Shields Advertising Manager. Mike Holsinger and Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, thr.ough letters, is SMC News Edito~.: .,..7J. ·;~~rgie Brassil Controllt;>(.,...-·~··· .._.. ·.v.,.Kevio. ManioQ· Q.e.CSSili¥.i!I.J..~~c.t. me. ~licies of the encouraged . • · .,. , ~ · Circulation Manager .. : ... Greg H~4g_e~ 
... -• • . .._,. 1.:1">"-"'-···'" _.,."!'f..J-~.4-~""...".J"''*·•""t•• 0(¥. .., .... -~,. 1"'(7. •J (7. ...... "· • .... ,~ · ., .. ~· :; "'·-"'<:"· ..,....,....... ""·•··!",. .w./1110,.. ..,.~ ...,,.r·z ·-;; .•, ..~_,..,~,-,·;-a' -A f ... ; ·,. ··x "1?tt·f<ffl·?."f··e--·e 'tMt1~~.~.... 


Mondav, February 18 [.uciil (;:00 & 9:00 p.m., Engineering Aut!. 
Tues~:1·: flchru:-~rv 11J ''r'ruh.l-:· (,·(i'J, R-:OD. & lO:UO p.m . ~-~·:lrir!'_·c-t~r .· ,\n.j_ 
r------~---·--...........,.....,_ 
··:·,~• among :.~ new generation c,f 
h ~ ,-\1, ;Cdfl filmmakns who arc 1 '•:' '!u ;.::;nt: tb: 1radi ti·mal domi­, t::lc .;f •\;c~rl'rt• l-ultL~t:.i produt i::, ,:·. ~ ,~dq·:jc ,!1 .'-1-mrlrtbl :~cm!~~nt 
, ._, :s ;,.._ pc·: ··! llfldlt'W<•tely ~.~.; . ,_. ~;·.!,. (~ :~!dl-'}·t_n:..~c.:nc~: ;!! --~ fnil·:~ ;J'. t~JI!i:':: ... 1· \ 1:1;.1 <.._~)!·;t!pUfJ~l a:_,·j 
LliCta 

Acclaimed worldwide as the "Gone With .the Wind'' of the Cuban film industry, Lucta Its indeed Cuba'.s first film spectacular, an epic, three-part feature tilm dramatizing three sepa­
~rate periods in the Cuban struggle for liberation in order to show the participation of Cuban women in that fight.' In 1895. Lucia (Raquel 
) 
-~~­
J7a't.m. at 7:30 and 9:30. Scottsdale Theater. A hilarious story about a man whose worst enemy is any form of diet. With Dom DeLuist" and Anne Bancroft. 
The Observer 
lEITERS TO A LONELY GOD 
A Closet Full Of Diamonds 

For Valentine's day, he had bought her a golden heart encircled with tmy diamonds. He had given it to her with a card that said: "All my love goes with this." She opened the box, touched the shape of the heart with tip of her finger; then closed the box and placed it on the far side of the table, as though to disown it. 
''You could put it on," he said. "I was hoping you would wear it.'' 
· 'Oh, no," she said, "I couldn't do t11a1 now." He might have been asking her to put a millstone around her neck. 
''Did you read the card?" he said. ·'In a way, the card is more important 1 han the gift." · 
·'In a way, it's more important?" ~he repeated. "Don't you really consider that an understatement?" 
·'I just mean," he said, "that it'.s easy to write words on a card; but tf y<>U want to tell a girl that you l~ve her with_ diamonds, it takes a mce p1ecc of change." . , ··1~vcn kept women get diamonds, slH: said, like one who had been watching the demi-mondaine, "in 
;.llknowledgerncnt of favors re­l:Cived. ·· Actually, very few kept women get diamonds, but she c<>uldn't be expected to know that. 
"Liz Taylor has a closet full." 
"'Oh, honey," he said, "Some day you' II have a closet full of diamonds, and I hope most of them are from me. Diamonds are like us, you know, because they're forever." He spoke as though their futures had the hard, bright surface of imperishable jewels .. And so expensive, too," she said. 
-'·costing as much as they do, no girl should ever question the honesty of diamonds." 
"'Do you think it's honest," he said, ·'when I say I love you?" 
''Honest?" she said. "I thought it was the woman who was supposed to feel honest, like when they say: He made an honest woman of her. Do you want me to tell you that you're Abraham Lincoln?" 
"'You talked about the honesty of diamonds," he said. "I just want to know what you meant?" 
"'I don't know," she said·. "I don't 
like myself very much. It's clear that you like yourself very much, and I don· 1 know why you should." 
".Yo~· n suffering from a negative self-image," he said. "It must be close to your time of month." He had grown up in a house full of girls; a woman's mystique was no mystery to him. 
"'You're so thoughtful," she said, 
"watching over the calendar tor me. 
It says a lot about our relationship." 
"'Like a brother and sister's," he 
said, "you've seen to that." He 
placed his hand over her hand. "I 
just want you to trust me not to hurt 
you," he said, "because I never 
would hun you.'' She had the 
impression that cads have made 
identical promises in offering candy 
to their victims. 

She watched him with eyes that 
looked as though they were viewing 
serpents through the glass walls of a 
zoo. "I got mail today," she said. "I 
thought you might like to have it as a 
valentine, in appreciation of your 
offer of a doset full of diamonds.·' 
Her t<·nes coJld have l•een usrd by 
tenan s when trey call the landlord to 
complain of bo lie, left in the cellar_ 
He really did love her; but he waited 
for the coup de grace that would tell him that romance, for that evemng, could be me:lsured for its shroud. 
She pushed toward him a used envelope, postmarked and open. "It's from Tina," siK said. "Re­member, you told me about Tina, the tanktown Tondelayo. She said you left these with her. She thought I m1ght need them. It's quite interes­
ting for me to get mail from your friends. H~·-fingers pressed against 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
the outside of the envelope, tracing a flat shape a little bigger than the size of an aspirin box. 
Suddenly, he realized what she was showing him. He got up from the table, and immediately sat down again, he face changing colors as though . he needed somebody tq adjust his video buttons. , . 
''I was eighteen years old, he satd. 
''It was a tasteless joke between us, and nothing ever happened. I was just eighteen years. old. Anyway," he said. "I never said there was only yuu." · 
Eventually, there will be a time bc·tween them for the gift of dia­m,mds; but first there must be mercy shown, understanding shared, a mu­tual forgiveness, followed by healing. When innocence is ·interrupted, the loss of innocence must be accounted for. Love, patient and generous, can accommodate itself to the lost child­hood, in others as in one's self. Love sometimes must clean away the debris from the past to plant itself a garden in the dump heaps of other people's.lives. 
At the far end of the table, a golden heart encircled with diamonds waited to be hung in place. Like any other transplant. there were nerve ends to be anesthetized to pain, in a delicate surgery full of risks to the patient. 
Breaking Away, Through Holy Cross Associates 
Last year Diane Butterfield sa0g in Chapel Choir; this year she is delivering babies in Nairobi, Kenya. Last year Matt Feeney of Howard Hall perfo~med at the NAZZ; this year he is teaching at an inner city school in Pho~mx, ~nzona. La~t year Diane Shillingbury_c?ached swimm!ng ~nd played tenms; thts year she ts working with campus mmtstry at the Umverslty of Portland, Oregon. Last year Tom Gorman made an Urban Plunge; this year he is teaching school in Santiago,iChile. What these four individuals have in common is an experience: the 
i experience of being a Holy Cross Associate.. . . ' 
I The Holy Cross Associates program bu1lds on those mvolvements o~ ~he community which are already present anq seeks t~ develo~ t~em ~rther by gtvmg lay men and women, who have already been m assoCJatw!l with Ho~y Cr~ss .through 'their apostolates or indi_vidual memb~rs? the op_portum_ty to assoctate _with the community in a more extensive way for a ltmtted penod of tlme,The Associates program affords Holy Cross a new way of being present in the localchurch t_hrough the work of the Associates while continuing to encourage, develop, tram, and activiate the talents of lay people in service to society and Church. . 
i The work of a Holy Cross Associate is only part of the prog~am as destgned; ~n I equal, if not more important, dimension of the program 1s an_ ~xpenence m : communal Christian living, simple lifestyle,_ and personal sp1~1tual growth. : ; ;; :;ides work the Associates reflect together,wtth each other and with Holy Cross i , ~ l!gious, on' the meaning of -lax ministry and Ch~istia~ living ir: their own · I ~rinuality. !hey live a common ltfe, apart from yet mconJuncnonwJth the Holyi 1 . -.:: n:li~ious conr'l•.·nity. The Associates pray and eat togehter on a regular 
-";.::~ l :i\·e out of rl common fund-a bi-eak-e,'en budtet. They challenge and' . t•:•·'·· •·nc: JJ,othe::t. Each grouf ofAssociates has mem er of the local relig10us 
I 
•H>Ir . .).'.._h.l •. ll'> as iheir lc.ca director, joining them regularly t?. reflect wnt~ ,,,-, : r : <pl·c·lences m ministry and in common !lie:. An onem;:..~ 1 on an:1 .: kr · ·,~:-.. -~L~tes and local direcrors begins and ends th~ exper_1enc_e. ·.,11 l!' . ·,_.Jr.· ,\ssoci8'c··, .,, Porrlan, Oregon; P.hoenrx, _,'.nzc;.:·: S~nnag?, ,., .. , ., 1 ;'<allot•: Keny:: . .B:·ginning in 1980-.31 ~b:_:-e will be opemngs 1_11 :md/H Jvward, C:d:forniz ;;-. well. Thecommmnemtor an AssoCiate In this 1trv ;; r·1·e vear ani for O\'r'Tseas two. 
. ·:h.::.;,·->iF· best >-;ay :o g~r a flavor of Assocmte life is to hear what the ... , i .,.-: .-(r,:;elves have to say. Diane Shillinburg writes from Portland: ''6:30 · we ''I' e:· fd·.;.-rher for dinner. We sit around a long wooden table that the 
lr'!versitv .,;' -·ortrand donated from their dining hall ·on which we place ten to ; , . ··. ·en mfxed and matched place settings and prep~r~ ouselves for. whatever two I, . t.:s have conjured up in the kitchen that night. If 1~ 1s Margare~ Slf!!kovsky, you 
I 
. ~ .., expect chicken, John O'Donnel makes spaghetti, Sharon Ql;lmn IS the ma~ter c'i ,chini and now since corn is in season we are rapidly lea:nmg every posstble 
w. 1 to serve it. All other meals are subjec_t to the weekiy sl?ec1als at Uncle Fred's, thp local groc~ry chain. W_edn~sday m&hts are .set. astde for a' house Mass­,...;, brattd by our own Denms 0 Hare. It 1s a spectal ume f<?r us to relax, take a louk at ourselves in relation to the Word of God and find nvunshment and support 
Nathan Stone writes from Santiago: "I pass my days-ten or eleven hours each working as inspector-disciplinarian in Colegio Andacollo, a grade school-high school 1n Santiago's inner city barrio. I wear a tie, give punishments,.substitute teach, and explain that no, I don't know Donna Summer or los Beegeea . . .Despite the '1opelessness of the .daily struggle to put bread on the table; Santiaguinos are a warm joyful people with a great tradition of humor. My spare rr aments are spent pursuing the.rich musical folklore of Chile. Chileans are great for song, and while doing a little cultural exchange by singing Irish and American ballads, I mostly occupy myself with learning the poetry of the people who live here, set to Andean melodies and rhythms which date back to the Incas.'' 
From Nairobi Diane 'Butterfield writes: "We are progressing well and are frequently mistaken for natives of Tanzania by people we meet on. the road...we were all dispersed to various missions for the duration of our midterm break.. .I _ went to Mwamapala, a small village about 125 miles southeast of Musoma...I stayed with a Maryknoll missioner and an African nun who operate a dispensary and-serve 26 other villages by going out to them once a month in a Land Rover. t was a great experience-in one week I learned how to take blood pressure, deliver 'I a baby, change a flat tire on a Land Rover, cook African food and ch,ew:-.ugar cane properly. For the first time I felt like 1 was really in Africa and notjusr:.observing ; it. ..We think of you all from time to time, when we remember with a start that we ! 
.
actually did live in the USA at one time in our lives." ' 
The Associates prog;am is not just an experience in livinl! commumty, ll•.lr is it just an experience in social servi(e, nor is it JUSt an experience in sharing one's Christian fairh; <:he combination of all of rnese ,., destgned to be> a whok experience. If this is the kind ,,f whole experience for wich you arc looking,, vvc invi~e vnu w =~·:c chllenge of the Holy Cross Associates. i ,-dodidat.: fur d" Assoctares .11w~ hav.:: a str•;:-,.: rlesi~e :o serve or~:e-r: -. 1-,;. :, :. u:;u;>lfy demo. s-trablr' frorn prnious service fc le~,,J :rshin e:~,, ~--·nc:<""-.\ .:ard:datL­shou!.j have rl1e ,_il·<;ire and (')j ..c:.:.i;i fl) work CJ•:Oar1v~-rv i'l the r,:·:::_Jihg pre::· '.of build1ng commu,,;,y_ One shm;!d <;.,:-\Viiling i:u shai·" one'·, l;·r~ -.. ·i c<~ircerr,, wirh 
·others, be tlexib:e. and be opp1 11 taking riskt ~·,, a'i'.·.irencs, and,;,n~rr:'-:r,_. :o 
,The ·s:~uctural causes .of prr·env and injusttce shou!·:; b.-· ;·etlected in rh~.. Associ.He' s standard of living. _It 1s importanf for ;1 car<i..;a.,;-· to be open to challenge and growth in this area. This attempt at Jiving simply ar.d in a community context requires or.:: to participate in and be vulnerable to the group decision-making proces~. Christian faith and prayerde•nandunceasing exploration and growth; the desire to deepen and share one's faith is an essential characteristic for an AssoCiate. ·our understanding of lay ministry is one which sees one's life of service· continuing to develop in.whatever profession one chooses after the program. · 
If the Holy Cross Associates sounds like something you'd be interested in, we encourage you to se<>k further information by contacting either Mary Ann Roemer orJudith Anne Beattie at Volunteer Services, 1. 5 LaFortune. Applications are due February 22. 
'if~·rti1m;··;;rh~.~;;;Eiu~rih~a~riis~t-~~indi;_iij~i)i~ichiijoitihie~~~-.·!i.'~!i.iii.ii.iiii-iii.iii..ii!.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!ii!iiiiiiiiiiiij~ijiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiii!iiiiiiiiii;ii!iiiii.~.~-~~iii~.-~...~.-.~"~--~..~.iJ!.iii~-~-iii.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!i~;iiiiii!iiiiiiiii!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;iiiiiiil.. ..
Iii . --I. ;a.,,' ........... 7'"' .t:: ... 
1­
The Observer 
BRIDGETS 
Friday afternoon 3-7 
SUper TGIF Happy Hour Drinks 2 for the price of 1 Drafts 3 for S1.00 Free munchies 
Saturday Afternoon Drafts &Dogs 25¢ 



~-~--~---~~­
... 

Friday, February 15, 1980 -page 10 
During Lent 
Sacred Heart offers special series 
by Tom O'Toole 

Eileen Hunter, a representa­tive of Sacred Heart Parish, announced a special lecture series beginning Feb. 24 at 8 
p.m. in Sacred Heart Crypt. 
In addition to the parish's usual Lenten services, Hunter said the series will focus on contemplative prayer, based on the spirituality of Thomas Mer­ton. The series will be· held on the first five Sundays of Lent. 
The program, entitled "Inti­macy with God in Prayer," will be conducted by James Finley, a former Trapptst monk. 
The initial topic is:"Merton as guide in the search for God," and followed on subsequent Sundays by ''Living in the Presence of God'', ''Sharing in the Pasch o Christ'', ''The Purification ofLove", and "Liv­ing a Life of Prayer'. 
Symposium held in Lafortune 
Tomorrow from 1-3 p.m. the Notre Dame Sociology Club will hold irs annual research sympo­sium for both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's undergraduate and graduate students. The symposium will be held on second floor of the LaFortune Student Center. 
The topics of papers to be presented include sexuality and law, the family, service profes­sions, and identity. A paper will be chosen from each sec­tion to be presented in late April at the Midwestern Inter­collegiate Sociology Conven­tion, which will be held at Notre Dame. The symposium is open to all persons. 

SPOTliGHT PSYCHOLOGY --13 fast-paced and exciting quarter-hour features of useful and interesting information which every individual should have. 
This s~ries is a "first:' in its effort to enhance public aw~re~ess of recent developments in the SCience and practtce of psychology and of the potenttal tmpact of research findings on the daily lives of us all. This week's topic is: 
DEATH AMERICAN STYLE-examines how our fear of dealh makes life itseld itself more difficult. Our death -avoiding culture shortchanges both the dying and the living 
Be sure to listen to WSND Sunday evening at Midnight or Tuesday evening at 11:45 pm. 
SElllOBS: 1 

STI 

AUGUSTINE'S pABISH GOSPEL CHOIR CC!Il)PUS
m1n1Str; ..
will part1c1pate in the 10:30a.m. Mass at Sacred Heart Churcll ,. . .• ... .,.QJl an...d:av. VA'hruarv 17th. . . _
.•. (~-!~~·~ ,, '~ '. ~"""' rr·-r...... u , .. ' .... ~......" ...........,. , 
We invite you to consider the Holy Cross Associates program. We have placements available next year in Oregon, California, Arizona, Chlle, ;md Kenya. If you wish to explore further yom ideals of Christian service and community u a lay person pleue contact Volunteer Senicu or call 4397 or 6349. .~,:a:~S•tt~Y;j··r,au4JM1at-Jll'lllt••~n-llieted'e'Jifrld&Jf. '*·: &R¥\ •'•'i·H,I44~ n~ 
Each session will also include question and answer periods. 
Finley -who spent five years at Gethsemane, Kentucky with Merton -now lives in South Bend with his wife and two children. He is the author of 
Merton's Palace of Nowhere, 
which along with Merton's own 
New Seeds of Contemplation, Disputed Questions, and · Thoughts in Solitude, and Hig­gens' Thomas Merton on Pray­er will constitute the basis of the lectures. These volumes are all available in the farish office. 
Merton, mystic o the modern church, lived the life of scholar/ playboy as a youth, and actually learned to speak French fluent­ly from going to bed with New York's Hungarian prostitutes, according to Hunter. 
Merton was converted by chance after wandering into St. Patrick's Cathedral one day and hearing a sermon on ''The Lady at the Well." He then decided to become a monk. 
Instead of taking the vow of silence as he had planned, he was persuaded by his teachers to use his oratory abilities. After spending time in the far east, he returned to the .States, and preached ·his new ideas on medttative l?rayer, which com­bined tradttional Christian ~eachings with Eastern mystic­tsm. 
Hunter stressed the potential of the numerous opportunities in the parish. 
Managers meeting 

There will be a brief organiza­tional meeting for any freshman interested in joining the Stu­dent Managers Organization on Monday in the ACC auditorium at 7:30 p.m. Any questions, call the office #6482 or George #1722. 
''While many students have been taking advantages of our parish services for some time, others do not even know of its existence,' 'Hunter explained. ''The only time they want to use Sacred Heart is when they get married,''she commented. 
"When Sacred Heart was founded in the early 1800's, its primary duties were baptisms, weddings, and funerals, for the parish which extended into Michigan and half of Indiana, '' Hunter stated. 
Though it now covers less than half of South Bend, the church still schedules over 200 wed­dings a year, including as many as four on certain Saturdays. ''You usually have to book the church months in advance of them, although quickies can sometimes be arranged in the case of emergencies,'' Hunter added. 
"But this program is some­thing everyone can take advan­tage of, and provides an excel­lent opportunity for the stu­dents to get into the spirit of Lent, as well as to see how the parish works,'' she concluded. 
Group travels 
to Chicago 

All Big Brothers/Big Sisters who are interested in nding the South Shore train to Chicago with their "little" are asked to meet at the main circle no later than 10:45 a.m. tomorrow. 
While in Chicago, the group will visit the Shedd Aquarium and the Adler Planetarium. The campus group will pick up all costs. The return train will arrive at 7:10 p.m. Call one of the officers for further derails. 
SMC elevator 

Springer questions safety 
by Laun·e Sparrow tenante at S.M.C., said, that if overloaded, the elevator would 
"I know it's no good, that's all slip down and get caughtI know,'' commented one main­between tloors. 

tenance worker on Thursday afternoon ar Saint Mary's. The According to Lowe Barber, safety of the elevator in Holy executive assistant to the Con­
Cross Hall is questionable ac­trol for Physical Plant, plans are cording to signs posted outside being laid down for the con­the elevator. The sign warns struction of a new elevator. that the elevator is in unstable Barber also said that the old condition and to insure safety elevator was more of a size should not be overloaded with problem than a safety problem. people or hea.;>-y luggage. "Yes, we are going to do it, 
The old-fashioned freight ele­yes, it will be bigger and have vator was probably constructed more room, yes, It will be more at the same rime that Holy safe," said Barber. Cross was built and even Tentatively, construction of though it did pass its state the new elevator is to begin 
inspection, it is no longer May 26 with the agreement that efficient in serving the needs of the contractors have it in opera­the H.C. rf'<>idf'.,~s. tion by the beginning of the fall Frank Springer, head of main-term. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----~
~,l 
The Observer Friday, February 15, 1980 -page 11 
Hofman eases transition 
by Gary Cuneen 

Following Sprin~ break, fresh­men will be reqUired to declare their college programs, but now is the time to start thinking about such decisions. Under the direction of Freshman Dean Emil Hofman, programs have been initiated to help freshmen make the transition into the sophomore year. 
The Spotlight Program, consi­sting of lectures from each of the dean s of the four college programs (Engineering, Sci­ence, Arts and Letters, and Business Administration); in­formation about each program in the Learning Resource Cen­ter; and visits to the depart­
...Title IX 
[continued from page 1] 
women's basketball program." He said it is revenue-producing and that it is "quite conceivable that other women's sports pro­grams can follow suit." 
With respect to Notre Dame's current problems with Title IX, Bradley said that there were two options which the Univer­sity could pursue. First, he suggested they could challenge the regulation in the courts, and second he said the NO could "deal with the regulations." 
·'I would like to see Notre Dame adapt to Title IX because I feel a strong commitment to that regulation," he added. 
In his speech, before a crowd of approximately 900 Hoosier Democrats who payed berween $150 and $25 a plate to attend thefund-ra·t~er, Bradley concen­trated on Sen. Bayh's record on energy. Bradley is a member of the Senate's committee on En­ergy and Natural Resources. 
·'This country is at a perilous time in its history due primarily to dependence on foreign oil. At present we spend $65 billion dollars on imported oil--enough money to run the state of New Jersey for 13 years," he told the crowd. 
"That not only means we're sending that much money out of the country, it also means that we don't have that cash to spend on exploration and ener­gy development at home," he said. 
·'We are teetering on the brink of disaster, and what's worse the foreign oil we're dependent on isn't secure for­eign oil as the recent events in Atghanistan and Iran prove," Bradley added. 
·'Concerted action isneeded by government and the American people to amend this situa­tion. We must fill our petrole­um reserves and get serious about energy conservation," he said. 
Bradley added that Sen. Bayh has been a supporter of alterna­tive domestic energy programs like gasohol, and that he sup­ports Bayh in that respect. 
Bayh, who spoke after Brad­ley, faces an upcoming race for a fourth term in the 'Senate. Also in at-tendance at last night's dinner to show their support for Bayh were Indiana Congressmen ) ohn Brademas and Floyd Fithian. 
mENDOZA'S GUITARS, REPAIRS, . ACCESSORIES 
ments of the different colleges give current freshmen the op-if desired, has already begun its portunity to meet people affili­campaign. ated with a specific program 
Dr. Joseph Hogan and Dr. and discuss their personal situ-Francis Castellino, deans of the ations. Colleges of Engineering and The third effort facilitating the Science, respectively, have lee sophomore transition will be tured to prospective majors ;<I the Education Planning Pro-their fields. Today is the final gram, enabling freshmen--un­day fur freshmen to take advan-sure of their college programs-­rage of the En5ineering display to take tests designed to en-in the Learning Resource Cen-lighten them as to their aca­ter, and materials concerning demic strengths and interests. the College of Science will be These programs were devel­available during the week of oped to make freshmen awar{' Feb. 18. of the opportunities in the 
Hofman emphasized, how-different colleges so that they ever, that all materials can still -may make the wisest choices be utilized after their designa-come time to select their col-ted week. leges in April. 
The Colleges of Arts and Pre-Advance Register Meet-Letters and Business Adminis-ttng will follow the selections, trati<Hl will be on display during and freshmen are required to the two following weeks, res-attend these meetings arranged pectively. The displays contain to inform them about schedu­scheduled video tapings, col-ling classes. The final stage lege bulletins, career pamph-wdl be Advance Registration. lets, and audio tapes providing taking place in late April. an abundance of information on Dean Hofman expressed the each college. importance of the informative 
Supplementing the Spotlight programs, and urged all fresh­Program will be the College men to fully take advantage of 

BUY 
OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
__) 

Spring Breakout 
r 1 
South Bend to Ft. Lauderdale Charter at $189.00 March 29-April 5 
Hotel rooms available .First Bank Travel in Badin 

Consulting Service, which will 

Think of a ship as a corpora­tion, and it's not farfetched at all. A destroyer may have fifteen officers, other ships even fewer. Even the most junior officer gets to share in running the show. 
You become part of the management team when you get your commission as an ensign after just 16 weeks of leadership training at Officer Candidate School. 
Choose to be a Navy officer and you are responsible for people and equipment almost immediately. 
Many officers go on for further advanced schooling. The Navy has literally dozens of fields for its officers-everything from nuclear pro­pulsion to systems analysis, oceanography to inventory management. In graduate 
school, this training would cost you thousands, but in 
the Navy, we pay you. 
Ask your Navy representa· tive about officer opportuni­ties, or mail this coupon for more information. Or call toll-free 800-841-8000 (in GA call toll-free 800-342-5855). There's no obligation, and you'll learn about an excellent way to start a career in management. As a college graduate you can get manage· ment experience in any indus­try. But you'll get it sooner­and more of it-in the Navy. 
,--------------,
I NAVY OPPORTUNITY B915 INFORMATION CENTER 
P.O. Box 2000 . Pelham Manor, New York 10803 
D Yes, I'm interested in becoming a Navy Officer. Please send me more information. ( fl)G) 
Name'--------------------­FIRST !PLEASE PRINT} LAST 
Address'------------------­
City·--------State----Zip--­
Age--tCollege/University'------­
:(:Graduation Date--¢Grade Point--­
!>Major/Minor------------­
Phone Number·--------------­!AREA CODE) CNI/80 
The More We Know. The More We Can Help. \he Privacy Act under Title 10, Section 503, 505, and 510 states that you tlo not have to 
I 
answer the personal questions we have asked. However, the more we know, the moreI accurately we can determine your qualifica­
L~~:=~~~::::.~m..:____J 
.NAVYOFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST.
1mile north of cGmpus 
'272-7·510· ··-· . 

....... .. ."' .-... ' ­
.•. 
'~~ 
Six stories, one plot: 
The Romance of OurAge 
.., . • Rende_zvous
l.JMj· 
. ;: In Spam. r You're a software 
· · appllcattons
•1 · specialist. 
•. , . .. When you picked · . · this career. you never dreamed that one day you'd rendezvous in Barcelona. Spain with two Navy destroyers. But when your company is Texas Instruments and one of your cus­tomers is the U.S. Sixth Fleet. you learn to expect the unexpected. The destroyers are equipped with Tl computers and they need new software fast. You come aboard and sail with the Fleet until your job is completed. Not a bad assignment for a soft­
ware specialist named Susie. You·r~ glad you got into technology. 


The Incredible Talking Chip. 
You're an inte­grated circuit designer at Tl. 
You've helped find a way to make 
a chip talk. something no integrated circuit has ever done before. 
First application: an electronic aid that helps children learn to spell. The world's first talking textbook. 
And that's just the beginning. The talking chip's potential is mind­bending. You're glad you got into technology. 
isTechnology. 


··· The Salesman's Dream . 
You're a Tl sales 
engineer. You've 
got what is prob­
ably one of the 
most irresistible 
selling messages in the history of 
salesmanship. 

It goes like this 'Hold this Tl-59 Scientific Calculator in your hand. Now, let's compare it to the most popular computer of the 1950s­the IBM 650. 
'The 650 weighed almost three tons. required five to 10 tons of air conditioning and 45 square feet of floor space. And it cost $200.000 in 1955 money. 
· Now look at the Tl-59 Calculator you're holding in the palm ol' your hand. It has a primary memory capacity more than double that of the 650. It performs its principal functions five to 10 times faster. And it retails for under $300.·. 
With a story like this. the hardest part of your job is holding onto your sample. You're glad you got into technology. 


The Joy Of Complication. 
You·re in semi­conductor design at Tl. You love it when people at parties ask you 
what you do. You say. "I make things complicated.· (Pause.) ·In fact. I got promoted recently for creating some major complications... 
What you mean (but seldom explain) is this: the more active element groups (AEGs) you can put 
on a single chip of silicon, the more 
the average AEG cost goes down. 
In short, you make things cheaper 
by making them more complicated. 
Your work made it possible for a 
Tl consumer product that sold three 
years ago for about $70 to sell 
today for $14.95. 

Your future looks wonderfully 
complicated. You're at about 100.000 
AEGs per chip now and 1.000.000 
is in sight. 

You're glad you got into technology. 
Outsmarting 
·"""'''~ Smog.
You've always designed air­borne radars for Tl customers. 
• ... Now, all of a sudden you know your next radar uesign is going to stay at the airport. On the ground. 
It's on the ground that traffic controllers at Los Angeles Inter­national Airport have a problem. They can "see" incoming and out­going airplanes on their radar just fine. so long as the airplanes are in the air. 
But when the airplanes are on the ground-touching down. taking off. taxiing. parking -they are some­times impossible to see and control. Ground smog obscures them. 
You believe you have an answer to the smog problem. You dig out the plans for an qirborne ground­mapping radar you helped design. You adapt the design so the L.A. controllers can use it' to see through smog. It works beautifully. 
"Today your smog-piercing radar is wtdely known as Airport Surface 
Detection Equipment (ASDE). It's standard equipment at L.A. Inter­national and at the airport in Geneva, Switzerland. Other airports with smog and snow problems are expected to have it soon. 
You're glad you're in technology. 

Oil Sleuths International. 
You're a geo­physicist. A good one. You could be with any of the big oil companies. But 

you ~anted to get with a company 
whose specialty is the same as 
yours. Exploration. 
That's why you're at Tl. in Geophysical Service. 
Tl explorer ships. Tl photo­geologic aircraft and Tl truck-and tractor-mounted vibrator systems are working all over the world. They're finding oil. And they're identifying areas where no oil exists. thereby saving huge losses in drilling costs. 
Also, Tl's worldwide computer network and its Advanced Scientific Computer is making 3-D recording and processing possible. This ex­clusive exploration technique is the only practical way to unscramble "no-record" areas on land and sea. 
You're a happy sleuth. You're in on the biggest hunt in history. And your team is out in front. 
You're glad you got into technology. 
fl 

If you're not in technology yet, think it over. If you are in technology, talk toTexas Instrufllents. 
Campus Interviews 
Feb. 20-21, March 5-6 


Send for the 34-page picture story of Tl people and places. 
Wnte George Berryman. Texas Instruments Corporate Staff mg. P 0. Box 225474, 
M. S 67. Dept. CG. Dallas. Texas 75265 
.."cc n·lJ;lt TI is doinf! in: 
• 
Microcomputers and microprocessors 

• 
Semiconductor memories 

• 
Linear semiconductor devices 

• 
Microelectronic digital watches 

• 
Calculators 


• 
Minicomputers: hardware. software 

and systems featuring software . compatibility with mtcroprocessors 

• 
Distributed computing systems 

• 
Electronic data terminals 

• 
Programmable control systems 

• 
Data exchange systems 

• 
Advanced Scientific Computers 


• D1g1tal seism1c data acqu1s1tion systems 
~ 

• 
Air traffic control radar and Discrete Address Beacon Systems 

• 
Microwave landing systems 

• 
Radar and infrared systems 

• 
Guidance and controls for tactical missiles 

• 
Worldwide geophysical services 

• 
Clad metals for automotive trim . thermostats. and electrical contacts 

• 
Interconnection products for elec­tronic telephoRe sw1tching systems 

• 
Tempe.rature-sensitive controls for automobiles and appliances 

• 
Keyboards for calculators and for many other products 


TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
INCOH.J>OH/\11 D 
An Eq1ial Oprortunity Employ~:r M/F 

The Observer -Sports 
[continued from page 16] 
Sweden in their earlier game. 
In another big upset, Annie Borchink, a 28-year-old nurse from Holland who almost quit speed skating last summer because of an injury, led a parade of 19 of 30 contestants who broke the Olympic record in the women's 1,500-meter speed skating event, winning in 
2:10.95 . 
U.S. hope Beth Heiden.. who with her brother Eric heads the American team's medal hopes in this Olympics, finished sev­enth and sa1d ''I think it was just the press that t_hought I ~as going to be a lot h1gher. I w1sh I'd been a little more nervous. I was almost too relaxed. But I expected to finish right around sixth place, so I wasn't very disappointed." . 
A Soviet cross-country skier won the first gold medal of these Olympics Thursday mo~n­ing when he cro.ssed t~e fimsh line of the men s 30-kllometer 

• • ~SUrprises 
race in one hour, 27 minutes and 2.8 seconds. Nikolai Zim­jatov won the first Olympic or world championship 30-kilo­meter race ever run on artificial snow. And his gold medal put the Soviet Union into the all­time Winter Olympics lead of golds with 50. Norway is now second with 49. 
The American hope in that event also disappointed. Bill Koch of Gulford, Vt., w~o surprised with a silver medal10 the 30-kilometers at the Inns­bruck Olympics in 1976, dropped out after 25 kilo­meters. He said he learned he wasn't in the running and "I decided I would save the energy rather than finish the race. Th!lt energy will be used Sunday 10 the 15-kilometer." 
There were no American med­al winners on the first full day of competition in these prob­lem-plagued Games. The ad­ministration of New York Gov. Hugh Carey contacted the Greyhound Bus Company and asked for buses and a top-level manageme!lt team to come to 
THE LEADING NEWSMAGAZINE AT THE LOWEST PRICE. 
Because you attend college you are eligible to receive TIME, the world's 'lead­ing newsweekly at the lowest indi­vidual subscription rate, just 35¢ an issue. That's BIG SAVINGS off the regular subscription rate of 59¢ an issue and even BIGGER 
SAVINGS off the $1.25 . newsstand price. 
And it's so simple to subscribe-just look for the cards with TIME and its sister publications, Sports lllustratep, Fortune, Life, Money and People. They are available at the college bookstore or from . your loc-al TIME representative: 
Kevin Rochford . 121 E. Navarre South Bend, IN 4<J601 
(219) 233-5298 
Lake Placid to solve the trans­portation mess that has almost completely fouled up logistics in the Olympic valley. 
In hockey, the powerful Soviet team beat Holland 17-4, West Germany beat Norway 10-4 and Sweden beat Romanj~_8-(). 
One of the most intense con­frontations of these Olympic~ comes today when U.S. figure skating pairs t~~ n .Ra~dy Gardner and Tat tiabtloma go up against Soviet stars Irina Rodnma and her husband, Aleksandr Zaitsev. The Soviet Union has won the last four Olympic pairs title ;, Babilonia and Gardner won the World Championship in 1979 when Rodnina and Zaitsev took the year off to have a baby. Now t~e two pairs appear very close 10 skill and style. 
Eric Heiden, the U.S. speed skating superstar, hopes to start his sweep of five gold medals today when he com­petes in ~he 500-meter c:vent. Heiden w1ll compete later 10 the 1,000, 5000, 10,000, and 15,000 meter races. 
I 
Friday, February 15, 1980 -page 13 
...Fencers 
[continued from page 16] 
idell. (12:4) have really been fencing well." 
Michigan State's Bryan Peter­man is the main Spartan attrac­tion. The defending Big Ten epee champ is 22-4 on the year and leads the 5-4 team from East Lansing. 
Notre Dame's foil and sabre 
captains, Andy Bonk and Chris 
Lyons, each orry 18-1 ~!larks 
into the weekend's action. 
They both went undefeated 10 
six bouts last Saturday 10 
LEGAL 

BASEMENT, NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL LEGAL "ID & DEFENDER ASSOCIATION ROOM 8·12 283·7795 11am· 2pm (M· F> other times by appointment 
WE HANDLf ALL I:INANCIALLY QUALIFIED STUDeNTS & STAFF 
:hicago. 
The Notre Dame women' 
team carries a 5-0 record action Saturday. They u"'"-"'·"UJ MiiwaukeeArea Tech, 11-5, Saturday, and have fenced better than DeCicco or women' coach Greg Mueler had anticip a ted. ''They are something else,' says DeCicco. "Everybod fencing well. Last weekend Bathon went out and won straight. She looked national champion. And Carney wins three of four. They're realy doing well." 
I 
~ 
j j 
j 
The Observer -Sports Friday, February 15, 1980 -page 14 
Pigeons 
Molarity 

-----------. 

Y£.411, FoRA WHILE SHE WAS
WELL ,rlY B£5/HAN, H£R£ 

HY GIRLFflt£ND Btlr Y{}()
(.Y)I1F..j 11Y LOI/£LY .BRIDE: 
WON HER OVER, YOU OL'
lX>WN TH£ AISLE 


The Daily Crossword 

© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

by Jim McOure/Pat Byrnes 

by Michael Molinelli 

... 5HE!5 AJ..SD DYNAMITE IN BED! 

ACROSS  33  Nigerian  49  Made sounds  23  Place for  
Smartly  tribesmen  of distress  some vows  
turned f'Ut  ::1<.  Dusting  52  Webster's  25  Nullified  
5 10  Distri~ Jtf' Brr ,ed  J5  ·loth R~indeer  56  forte Stir up  26 Spot for dancers  
14  11/,ol· an  c.  rnyth  sediment  27  "'-for  
1'1-3.ter  3£  'VIount, as  57  Of high  Adano"  
15  C.ty in  gems  rank  28  Eminent  
Jrazil  37  Attack  59  Faithful  29  Crony  
16  Stap:' grain  39  verbally Individual  60 61  -jure Port on  30 31  Now: Sp. Continuous  
17  Wolft Jund  40  Exo~.erates  the Po  course  
18  Ur.;poken  42  Flog  62  Actress  32  Bristling  
19 20  Four roods Threatened  43 44  Gator's kin London  63  Barbara Believe  34 37  Townspeople Intellect  
22  Compare: sl.  court  &..  Tolerated  38  Window  
24  Punishment  46  Graph  65  Betsy or  or rum  
25  -prosequi  47  -with  Barney  41  David's son  
26  Coxcomb  (supported)  43  Rattle on  
29  Sink in  48  Juan's aunt  DOWN  45  Brought  
1 Shellfish  on stage  


2 Pull 46 Present-day 
forcibly oss 3 Denisov:-., 48 Inclination 4 Wild rumJ,s 19 Storage 5 Took steps battery 6 Play the plate 
first card 50 Sherpa's 7 Wood finish need 8 Prayer 51 Feeder into 9 Blabbed the Seine 

about 52 Miscellany 10 Tonics 53 Catholic 11 Thrash church 12 Beige calendar 13 Display 54 Regrets 
emotion 55 Hankerings 21 Kittenish 58 Fra: abbr. 

Environmental Intern Program 
Summer or semester jobs for college students with government, private industry and nonprofit organizations in the envirc:1mental field. Applications at your Placement Office or EIP. 
For internships in: 
New England and New York EIP/Northeast Massachusetts Audubon Society Box A Lincoln, MA01773 
Ohio, Michigan, Indiana and Western Pennsylvania EIP/Lower Great Lakes 332 The Arcade, Box A Cleveland, OH 44114 

Minority candidates are encouraged to apply. 
... leers 
[continued from page 16] 

skating the entire weekend wondering just what is going to happen to the program. 
"I don't know what to say, said Irish coach Lefty Smith. ''The decision is up to the University, so we just have to wait and see what they decide. 
"Concerning this series, we face a very dtfficult task. With the WCHA race so tight and us losing two games last week, we have got to come away this weekend with two wins. With Murray Eaves back, Michigan certainly is going to be a tough club.'' 
To add to the already mount­ing problems, the Irish will be without the services of de­fenseman Don Lucia. The junior from Grand Rapids, Minn., is out with a thigh injury and also will be sidelined next week against Michigan State. 
Two Irish skaters have an opportunity to strengthen their chances of entering the record books with a productive series this weekend. Senior right wing Greg Meredith totals 92 goals in his career and needs one more to become the second leading goal scorer in Notre Dame history. Eddie Bumbac­co tops the list with 103. 
Junior defenseman Jeff Brownschidle totals 11 goals and 27 assists for 38 points this year. 1-k is in the position of being able to rewrite the record books for defensive scoring. The mark for goals in a year is 15, assists in a season is 3 5 and total points is 48. Browns­chidle, a native of East Am­herst, N.Y., had five assists last weekend. 
After this weekend, the Irish travel to Michigan State aw~ fmish the regular season tl e following week at home versus Minnesota. 
College Basketball Scores 
Big Ton 
M111neso:a 74 Oh1o State 70 Nnr .ilWP' · ~7 Purdue 54 Mr::lli(J~n td rrr•no1s 76 l11d1ana 66. Iowa 55 
Other games 
O;egon S.a:e 82. Washington 73 Arrzona 74. Sou:hern Cal 65 Nor.h Carolrna 73. Rutgers 70. OT Lnursvrlle 90. Wes: VIrginia 78 S MISSISSippr 84. South Carolina 63 Weber S:a:e 57. Nevada-Reno 55 


Location· 1 mi N. of thf' Suue Line 
r· .. 

All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior 
to the issue In which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept 
classlfieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classifieds must be pre-paid, either In person or through the mall.
Classifieds 

Notices 
Senior Class presents another Pulaski I!Gst Party. 25 cent beers all niQht. 1606lNestern Ave .. Friday, Feb. 15th from 9 p.m. til? 
TypiRg in my home. 277-3085. Call between 8:00 and 7:00. 
There will be a MECHA meeting this Saturday at 2 p.m. In the basement of Lewis Hall. Refreshments will be available. 
Typing done in my house--you deliver and pick up. Call 232-3732. 
CUSTOM MADE RESUMES from the word processors get r~sults The one-time charge ·of $15 mcludes pro1essional styling •. wording you resume just right. and typing to mak it look its best. Write today--The Word Processors. 601 N. Walr. t, Bloomington. IN 47401. 
Spring Bread Daytona Trip--Bus Tl'insportatlon with Hotel, $199. Drive 'n Save lor $99. Drive 'n Save to Ft. Lauderdale $109; only six roo~s left. 6-days/5 nights. For information call Ken, 283-1387 
Get the acts together! Nazz M_usic Goolpetition Is March 7. Applications available February 18, due February 
27. First of live prizes: Triple Digit Cash! 
Vergiss Fashing samstag nicht! Spass muss sein-­Delta Phi Alpha 
Europe. Israel, Egypt: 15·4.2 day student tours. For brochure wnte: S. Graveel. Experiments in Traveling. 
P.O. Box 2198 E. West Lafayette. IN 47906 
FLORIDA SUNSHINE EXPRESS Leave Notre Dame Circle 6:00 p.m. March 27th--arrive Daytona Beach approximately 3:00p.m. March 28th. Dinner-rest stops enroute. Leave Desert Inn Hotel 7:00p.m. April 7th. Arrive IIJotre Dame approximately 4:00 p.m. April 8th. 
Price includes transportation ONLY! $165.00 per person--$50.00 deposit to hold your reservation--balance due March 15th. 
Transportation via air conditioned-­-restroom equipped luxury coach. Call RAINBOW TRAVEL. 301 N. Mich­
-;gan. Plymouth. IN 46563. 
(219)936-5678. DON'T WAIT--CALL 
NOW! 
~ost&Found 
$50 reward for the return of a 30 inch 14k. box link chain. No questions asked. Patty 4332(SMC) 
Found--1 pair of long brown leather 
gloves at Junior Class formal. Call 
1189 to identify. 
Found: Green plaid scarf in Bus. Bldg. 8785. 
Found Feb. 7th. Calculator in Eng. Bldg. Call 8922 to identify. 
Found: portable Pioneer Cassette tape player found at N D ice rink on Wednesday, Feb. 6th at about 11 p.m. Call Tim at 232-7314 to identify. 
Lost: wire-rimmed glasses in a brown case on 2/8/80. Probably near O'Shag. If found. please call Steve Striegel. 8986. 
Lost: $$offered for return of books in blue backpack taken from bookstore 2/7/80. Lisa 1330 
Lost: gold watch on North Quad Fri., Feb. 8. If found call Finns at 8621. REWARD 
Lost: Black wallet. Lost near Rock--REWARD. Call Bill 6756. 
Lost: my glasses. Highly attractive SM C sophomore cannot see herself in the mirror. They had a gold frame and square tinted lenses. If y.1u have seen them please call Colleen at 41-4374. She'll make it worth your while. 
For Rent 
-·· ---------­
off-campus house. Male or female. Everything furnished except person­als. $120/$130 per month. Call 289-01 03 nites. 
We rent dependable cars from $7.95 a day and 7 cents a mile. Ugly Duckling Rent-a-Car. 921 E. Jefferson Blvd. Mish .• IN 255-2323 
Roommate wanted. Share house with private large bedroom and bath ...Rec room with pool table. laundry facilities 
HBO. kitchen privileges  .  N0  area  
busline.  $150  month.  233-5349  
evenings.  

For rent next school year. nice large homes. furnished. Couple blocks from campus. 277-3604. 288-0955 
4th girl needed at N D Apts. Call 234-7220 

Wanted 
Flying East? 1 need someone to drive a car from Philadelphia to South Bend 

NOW.  Call 232-0453.  
WANTED:  .  
Need  ride  to  Denver over spnng  

break. Will share driving and ex penses. Call Dave 277-1742. 
OVERSEAS JOBS--Summer/year round. Europe. S. America. Australia. Asia. etc. All fields. $500-$1,200 monthly. Expenses paid. Sightsee­ing. Free info. Write IJC. Box 52-14, Corona Del Mar. CA 92625 
Anyone interested in cooking classes phone "Patsy's Pantry." 232-5640 
Going to Ft. Lauderdale? (Break) If you need someone to share accommoda lions. Call 7923 
LEAD VOCALIST-for campus rock group. Guitar ability preferred but not required. 3463 

Need ride to Champaign. IL weekend -of 2122. Call Chris 8328 
Need a ride home to Chicago for one. Can leave this Friday afternoon. Call Jane at 7933 
Desperately need one GA tix ann .1 student tix f'or DePaul. Money 1s definitely NO OBJECT!!!! Call Jennifer NOW at 4980. 
Need ride to California after finals. Will share all costs. etc. Call Clark/Jim 8469 
ONE FEMALE WANTED IN CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENT~. $100/MONTH. CALL ANNE 277-5261 OR 7884. 

For Sale 
1969 Delta 88 Oldsmobile. Runs well. Asking $325.00. Call 272-9007 after 5 p.m. 
FLASH: Photographic equipment for sale --fantastic bargains! --cameras. lenses. 
Call 232-4129 
Students--Need an inexpensive sofa. love seat. kitchen set. chair. table. lamp at cost? The Inside Outlet has New furniture at super savings. 5 percent discount. 2122 South Bend Ave .• 277-7772. m/w/f 10:00-3:00 Tues. 1:00-5:00 Thurs. 1:00-8:00 Sat. 10:00-4:00 
Try us before you buy 
For Sale: 2.5 cubic foot refrigerator. Call 8505 fbr details. 
USED BOOKS at discount prices. The latest in new books. Frequent sales on new and used titles in categories from philosophy to popular fiction. ·Visit Pandora's Books. 937 S. Bend Ave., between Eddy and Notre Dame 

Tickets 
Need 2-4 DePual tix. Call Linda at 41-4796 

Need 1 DePaul ticket, GA or student. 
Call Kerry 7873 
Rich graduate '61 needs DePaul tlx [6]. Call 272-5744 
Desperately need 3 Marquette tix. 
Please call Bill ~~ 8288 
Need 2 GA Marquette tlx for Jr. Parent Weekend. Good $$$. Call 8437 or 8436. 
Need many DePaul GA tix. Call 8437 or 8436 
Big bucks: 2 or 4 DePaul tickets. Call [312]372-7399 collect. 9-5Jsk ~or Alex Deviance. 
Need 3 Marquette GA tix. Any price. 
Call Dave 1133 
DAYTON GA'S DAYTON GA'S DAYTON GA'S DAYTON GA'S DAYTON GA'S I need 'em--Mick 8212 
Need tickets to the Marquette game on the 24th of Feb. Mike 8501 
Will pay mega$$$ for 2 GA Marquette tickets. Karen 6798 
Must have Day1on (5) and N C State (1) tix!! Please help. 41-5710 
$$$Desperately need 2Dayton tickets$$ Ron 8479 · 
I need 2 G A and 2 student tix to DePaul game. Will pay your price._ Anna (SMC)5322 
Need GA and student DePaul tickets. 
Call 232-7314. Thanks 
Need two DePaul GA tickets for Dad in Chicago. $$$$. Rich 1187 
Name your price for DePaul. student or GA's. Satisfaction guaranteed. Kathy Fox 1343 
Need desperately 2 GA or student tix for De Paul. Money no object!! Call Kathy at 1314 
Not a sportsfan myself. I can't understand the willingness to pay sucn exorbitant prices for 2 DePaul tickets. Call 6980 if interested. 
Desperately need Marquette GA tix. 
Your price. Call Sean 3114 
Please help--I need 2-4 GA 's for DePaul--will pay. 41-5223 
Need Marquette tix. Call 8479 
Help! Need Marquette student tix. 
Call Joe 6251 
Need GA tix to any home bball game. 
Paul 3121 
Need 2 GA DePaul tickets. any price!! 
Call Tim. 8605 
Need DePaul GA's for former NO B-ball player. Preferably 4 together. $$$ Call Pat 1791 
Women: True romance could be 
yours ... l'm looking for a beautiful girl 
with personality and MARQUETTE 
TIX. 
Men: The only thing I want is your 
MARQUETTE TIX ·Twardz 3526 
-----------·-:-----­
My Dad need 2-4 GAs for Marquette. 
Please phone AI McGuire Jr. 1388 
Want to see Willie-Wampum & West of Warriors get Wamped! Call Mr; Wa-Wa evenings at 288-5891 if you have Marquette student or GA tix. 
Take my money. just sell me 2 GA Marquette tickets. Must know soon. Sean 1771 
Need 2-4 GA tickets for Marquette. 
Call Bill at 1104. Pay big bucks!! 
Help!! Truckload of guys coming down for Marquette game. Need tickets. Money's no object. Call Brad 3128 or Dennis 3131. 
Parents on first trip to N D would love to see Marquette game. Good$$$ for 2 GA 's--Call Andy 7820 
FREE CASH--I desperately need 2 (just 2) tickets to the Marquette game. Money no object. Call Maureen at 8027 
Needed: 2GA tickets for DePaul. Call Matt 233-6090 
Need 2 BB tickets GA to DePaul. 2-3 Ga to Marquette. Call Judy-7526 
Need student and GA tix for DePaul Businessmen need DePaul GA 's. Willing to pay corporate $dollars$. Call Greg or Eddy 1757 
Need 2 GA Marquette Tix. Nick 233-6249. 
Personals 
Conrad Mazeski, Thanks for last night, You were the Greatest!-­
Karen 

Happy~th Birthday Julie. · " 
Now that you're a woman--look out 
NO.... ­
-Love. 

Mary Kay. Missy, Cathy, Kathy, Ann. 
Mary, Ann, BPM. Jan. Lisa. Cathy, 
Mons and ~:atie!! 
Margi, I hope this year will have your happiest birthday yet. Love. Bob 
Lose your ----at the American Legion Pulaski Post tonight. 9 p.m. until you can't take any more. 1606 Western Ave. -~ 
Margi-­Hope you have a super birthday Love, Jennifer 
A• l'one interested in contributing some photos for a possible college life "Midpoint" should cootact. Kathy Connelly at 7471 or John McGrath at 3106 
ZETO ...to see him is to relch. 
Conrad Mazeskl, Thanks for last nigbt, You were the Greatest! 
Susan 

Ditroiiciiib:--------
Dtrectorles available 
For students from Detroit area. Pickup in 375 Dillon [Pat 1850] or 319 Farley [Rosemary 6826] 
MOBF, . How about a shot of Vodka at midnight? Love, JJM 
Bec.ome a part of the staff!! An Tostal organizational meeting Sunday, Feb. 17th, 7:00 p.m. In Lafortune Little Theatre. BE THERE! 
·Margi-.. Have a gre_at 19th Lori 
-----------~---­
KMO Happy 3rd Anniversary, here's look­ing at you kid!! MFB 
Margi Have a fantastic B-dayl Bottom Bunker 
MG 

Thanks ...just the way you are ... 
memories ...time and happiness... 
.. .still 
contentedly yours 
JS(RW) 

Penguin, No sleeping at midnight--we are demanding dates! The Jolly Green Giant and The Little Sprout 
Is he not ugly? He is Zeto. Zeto for UMOC-'80' 
Pangborn needs any musicians. but especially guitarists and flutists, and slngers •• especially girls to help with music for Sunday masses~ Call Dan 8360. 
ATTENTION aft NROTC, NROTC/MO, and PLC's. Semper Fidelis Society Organizational Party at 832 ND Ave., Apt. 2a on Friday, Feb. 15, 7:30p.m. If you need a ride, meet In room 110, NROTC Bldg. at 7:30 or call Jim 234-2862 late evening. 
AN TOSTAL ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING SUNDAY, Feb. 17th, 7:00 
p.m. Iii Lafortune Little Theatre. EVERYONE Is invited and encouraged to attend. N1l experience necessary!! Margeee, 
Don't even think of studying on Saturday, Fag. Love, The Brat 
Jamie. Ha\e a good day. you knave! Love, Bonzo 
Conrad Mazeskl, 
Thanks for last night, You were the 
Greatest! 
CindyJanine and Vicki-­

".,.lt's the time you waste for them 

that makes a friend a friend. Unique 
in all the world .... " 
All my lov.e, 
Betsy 

Joe: Thanks for picking me up. The 
lyrics are coming along well ... Do you 
need them ... "Still." 
Tomorrow Is all of our favorite Valentine's birthday, Margi Fink. Wish her ahappy one and contribute a shot of Vodka to the cause! 
Gr. 1118 

~8 .. 8e;~~py&t~~---­
Thanks for the great birthday and fantastic weekend. Same time next year--you there? 
love. 
J.U. 

Prof. Brady & the 3MWF Auditing 
Class: 
This afternoon I will be having a drink for everyone and two for you Professor. 
Mr~ C 

P.S. On Bourbon St. 
FINK­. I tried to get a live penguin but t!,hv said South Bend wasn't cold enouli~­RAUTH 
CHUCKY EVEN SMELLS UGLY!! 
This personal is just for Mary Beth Dvorak because she said no one .ever sends her any personals. So here's to . you. M.B. 
The Three Stooges 

P.S. Boy talk about cheap thrills! 
To the only Fencing Penguin on Earth, Saturday will be your first all nigliler -Are you going to make It? Mary 
Mary Palumbo, Congeals 9n your FIRST PER­SONAL. Here's to many more. 
-H 

Tired of that limp, mousey hair color? This year do It right. Hennalucent puts vibrant color, superJoftness, and electrifying shine into the hair, or ask for no color -change super-gloss. Both add full body too. -For men and women. Lasts for months! Call Armando's. 277-0615. Ask for Kim 
Attention! 
Yes. tomorrow iS Chris Cohn's (from San Diego, California) birthday!! He's far from home so don t miss your lucky chance to wish him a happy birthday at 4664. 
UniPep 

Margi-­Happ'f'Birthday! Hope It's the best. Love Mare 
Schlop & Wisch. 
Nllmber 20. and you know what that means. If it wasn't for Columbus (Toledo!) and Milwaukee (St. Louis?). you guys would have peaked without even knowing it. --to "friend of blow chow ... hope your birthday's super (try and make it past 9:30) --to "the big guy." hope your's is "awesome." 
Thanks for agreat year 
(I owe you one next spring break) • 
WOP 

Margi, Happy 19th Birthday to the penguin lady! Live it up! Maney 
DO YOU EVER WONDER HOW TO PUT ALL THE PARTS-OF YOUR LIFE TOGETHER? Come to the two-part Life Planning Workshop Feb. 20 and 
Feb. 27 from 8:00-9:30 p.m. in the Regina South Lounge. Sign up in Regina Hall or the Career Develop­ment. SMC 
SENIORS: There is still time to make application to the Holy Cross Assoc­iates program. All applications must be on file by February 22. For further information on this program of Christian service in the US and overseas contact Volunteer Services in the LaFortune Center or call 4397 or 6349. 
Margi. 
Now that you're 19, your parietals have been extended so that you can dance in the snow until 3 a.m. 
Can we join you? 
F112 

American Legion Pulaski Post Party tonight giv'3n by Senior Class. 25 cents beers and B-52's, 1606 Western Ave. 
Cciilriii"ii'iiiiki;--·------­
Desperately need DePaul student and Bball game. Paul 3121 .Thanks for last night, You were the 
GA's. Call Leo 1871 

Greatest! Terri
.ilv.o. rno mmates .n.e.eded JOL Jacae 
\ 



Friday~ FebrUary 15~ 1980 -page 16
SRorts 
lilshslipby Rams 
Woolridge leads second halfsurge 
by Tony Pace Editor Emeritus 

\EW YORK-Norre Dame 
•layd Fordham last _night in he famed Madison &quare 1arden. Yawn. R1ghr? You· d prPbably think it was a 
!>JilW<llll. 
1

Well. bt'ietve it or not, Ford­
1!;1111 ;!llllaily made a game out 
.. 1 11. h>r a while they even 
illlt'al• nnl to spoil Digger 
1Jfll'lf>" annual February vaca­
11~>11 11. Nl'w York. 

lltn udkge basketball is still a 
til llllllllle game, so Notre 
Danw wa-. able to shake off 
~~~m·· fir-..r half sluggishness 
.t11d '"fliUrt· an 86-76 win. 
ll1c Iri~h trailed 37-29 at 
It;!II 1lllH' and fell even fun her 
lll'itllld whe1 Ram g'uard Mark 
MuJf'll\ hit the first shot of the 
..,,., .. ,lli.half. But then Orlando 
\Vo.. lridge deuded it was time 
,,, put his a<'l in high gear. In 
1IH· ~pan of two and one h~lf 
llllllllll'..,, thl' "Tree" poured In 
I i p1>in1s on a combination of 
~ltlfrs, finger-rolls and tap-ms. 
:-.taybt· he knew the spirit of 
!11-. Lou~in was pre~enr. 
lf1.., cousin) 

Yeh. Willis Reed, whose big number I') hangs from the rartns of the Garden in tribute to his many y<:ars with the Kn1cks. Willis would have been pn•ud last night--W-oolridge fin­l'ihed with 23 points and was named the game's most valuab­le player. 
So "Tree," wen· you thinking or Willis while you where OUt there ? 
"Yes. I had some hidden Ill< >I ivation, ".Woolridge admit­ted with a grin. 
·'I remember seeing cuz--you know, Willis-play in front of the big, crowds at the Garden when I was little, so I really wanted to do well. I was just roo passive in the first half, so I cam(' our pumped up in the second half.'' 
Woolridge wasn't the only player who was passive in the first half. The whole Notre Dame team was standing a­n>und and taking f-lOor shors . 
"I don't think we had an of 'ensive rebound in the first half,·' Phelps said after the game. 
l1>hn Paxson wa'> a little more 1;, tl1•: pomt. ''We were just too laL"k<:dai~.ical in the first half.'' 1 he tn:sl man guard said frank­ly. "I" the second half we play~d l1ke we really can." Pax;.on' ~ tirst halfplay certain­ly wJsn't shabby. He hit three .>f four shots for six points in just nine minutes of play. In fae1, when Fordham threatened 1o open up a bigger lead, it was Pax~on 1 hat kept the Irish in the 
game. . 

Even though Woolndge was 1k MVP, Kelly Tripucka was d1e leading scorer with 24 P••ints. The pair were ~ided ~y f{1ch Branning, who chtpped 111 
12. 

· 1.-ordham was led by Sopno­more forward Bill Calhoun, who p<>Un:d in 23 points. When Callmun fouled with 5:20 to play, Fordham's fate was seal­ed. 
From New York it's on to Columbia, South Carolina, for the Irish. Phelps says, ''They have a big old Irish Wake planned for Saturday, since !-'rank McGuire is leaving. A lot 
Fencers shootfor 119th straight 
by Paul Mullaney_ whose squad is coming off · · 1-:ven though they lost the Assislimt Sports Edttor Identical 22-5 victories over team t•Jtal to u5 last year, their Derroir, Chicago, and Milwauk­epee squad beat us,'' points ~ut 
l~vn since Notre Dame open­
DeCic<o. ''I've been

ee AreaTech last Saturday.t'd up its 1980 fe!'lcing campaign "Ohio Stare gave us problems­
with a 15-12 w1n over htghly­last year, and they've got most roul ed Clemson, head coach 
everyone back. They'll be Mike DeCicco has been point­wugh to beat, bur it will help us Ing wward this weekend's ac­get ready for· Wayne State(in
lloll at the Athletic and Convoc­Detroit. February 27) and the .H ton Center. nationals.'' f'he Irish bring a 9-0 slate and Ohio State will bring an 11-4 
11-i-mel·t winning string _into season mark into Notre Dame. Saturday matches aga111st Tl~· Buckeyes. who lost ·to Mtd11gan State, Ohio State, Clemson, 14-13, are led by their 
Purdue, Northwestern and ll-epee ~quad. Junior epeeistlinoh-C:hicago Circle. . Fnaj Allali is 27-9 on the year,"We've really been anxtous to while seni,>r Jeff Spellerbergkm c-at home again and a­and junior Dave Matthews have g•tllht a really good team_Iike po~ted respective 22-10 and Ohrtr-Stare," says DeCicco, 2-l-H marks. 
ND icers battle Michigan 
by Bnan Beglane Sports Wnrer 

While the University's Board of Trustees meets in key Bis­cayne, Fla., this weekend to decide the future of Notre Dame athletics, the Irish hoc­key team --clearly the center of the fiscal controversy envelop­ing this campus --travels to Ann Arb, ~for what might be its most crucial series ever. 
Notre Dame is in the midst of a three-game losing streak and sits in fifth place in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association with an 11-11 league record ( 15-14 overall). Only three weeks remain of the regular season, and the Irish are fight­ing for one ~f the top fo~r spots in the standmgs --the ttcket to home ice in the playoffs. 
Michigan is in second place in the WCHA with a 12-7-1 mark (21-8-1 overall). Th~ Wolver­ines are very much m conten­tion for first place, and league leading North Dakota finds itself at Minnesota this week. Michigan also posts a 17-0 record at the Yost Ice Arena this season. . 
Sound hard enough? Well, to add to all that the Irish will be 
[continued on page 14] 
of his pals from rhe New York Bars will be down there. The atmosphere will be the same as an NCAA playoff game." . 
'iounds like they are tryir;g to· spoil Digger's party. Gi\ME NOTES--The Fordham program hasn't quite been the same since Phelps left in 1 ')71, but new coach Tom Penders seems to have turned things around. Tonight's starting lineup included a freshman and two sophomores a_nd freshmar: guard Mike Murphy cam<; o!J the bench to score 16 pomts, mostly from long range....At­tcndaJJlT was 16,009, one of the largest crowds to attend a (1arden doubleheader this sea­Ill! .... The first game was the hl'll n of the two , as Rutgers took North Carol ina tv overtime hl'f;>re losing 7 3-70 ... Mike Mit­
L"hell  saw  limited  duty  last  
111gill,  only  playing  for  two  
minutes of "Garbage....  

··Innmy (Andree) is coming on a i111ie slower than we hoped." Pheip~ added after the game. 
··BtlI ir · s just an adjustment prubk-m. I don't think any of the freshman centers, even Sampson, Bowie, and Stepan­oviL"h, have played as well as everyone expected.·' 

Bigsurprises in downhill, hockey 
LAKE PLACID, N.Y. (AP)-A 21-year-old Austrian who didn'_t make his country's team unttl Wednesday tore down White­face Mountain for a gold medal in the downhill ski race yester­day as competition in the XIII 
qutte pk·ased with the way our epee squad has progressed over the last few wC:eks, however. Thom Cullum (14-3) and Kevin Tin­
[continued on page 13] Orlando Woo/n'dge and Kelly Tnpucka combined for 47 points, most ofthem in the second half, as the Insh won a tough contest with Fordham, 86-76. [photo by DC] 
Winter Olympics hit full stride. 
Leonhard Stock, who skis the Tyrolean Alps around his home town o£ Flickenberg, came to the United States as an alter­nate ~n the Austrian team and didn't even expect to compete in the Olympics. But his train­ing times were so good he replaced veteran skiers in a team reorganization. 
When all the downhill results were in, Stock was leaping f'?r joy, holding the a~m of h1s teammate, Peter Wtrnsberger, who finished second. 
"I am a big fighter," said Stock. ''I have had to fight ever since I was a kid on the farm. I had to fight to make the team. I had to fight to recover from an injury in Val D'Isere, and I had to fight every step of the way to 
Xffi:WlNTER 

OLYMPIC GAMES 
i /-_)-(~,x4~) 
·J ·~j 

LAKE PLA(_JJ), N )' 
win this downhilL'' "I never thought I could win the gold medal." His ~riumph was one ofseveral surpnses. 
The United States' hockey team provided another with a late-night 7-3 rout of a Czech­oslovakia team that was seeded #2 in the Games behind the Russians. The unbeaten Amer­Icans managed a 2-2 tie with 
[continued on page 13] 
Women boast quality b-ballteams 
The movement to boycott Libby's and Nestle's didn ·, catch on in this community, the proposal by _I 1mmy Carter to boycott the ~ummer Olymp!c Games in Moscow is still pendmg, bur there IS one liule-publicized yet very pop~lar prote,st ragmg ano'ss the Notre Dame-Samt Mary s campus. How come nobody told me we took a vote to boycott women's basketball games? 
f'ht: atmosphere_ that surrounds the Not~e Dame and Saint Mary's basketball teams 1s pat betic, because both schools have good teams. 
The Irish women are 14-5 and nabbed the first seed spot in the Division III districts !~r t~e Indiana State tournament. No less excnmg IS the Saint Mary's team--just about anything can happen ar one of their games--a. romp over St.. Mary's of the Woods, 110-22, a wm at the buzzer over Saint Francis, or a performance by The Village People. The 1:1elles stand ~t 1_1-9 and are 
· hoping for big doings in the dtstnct tourney where the top two teams ~dvance to .state. (Incidently, Saint Mary's wtll be_ hosung the state tournament the last weekend m February.) I confess to being one of the constant complainers that there is nothing to do around here--South Bend, where? Boring? Right? I don't ofcen miss a sporting event, unless I have an excellent excuse, even a women's game o_n either campus bu< I guess that's my job. Th1s year The Oblerver has tried_ to improve the coverage--equal time, equal nghts--oh, well, I 
Beth 

Huffman 
Women's ·Sports Editor 

W<Hl. r get in to that bunch of malarkey. I hate to 
admit 11 but all my efforts and tho~e of_ the staff 
not to mention the athletes seem 111 vam. 
I know it's disheartening for me to walk into a game and be one of a paltry of fans·, but it's got to be worse for the athletes. Crowds are exciting, motivating, and complimenting (didn't NBC give the Notre Dame student body the MVP award in rhe good ole days?) Even Notre Dame·-.. Shari Matvey admits ti-Jat she plays bel ter in front of a crowd. How much better can she get? For those of you that have_ been ~n isolation let me tell you about Shan. She s already knocked off a couple of records this year (and she's only a freshman), she leads the team in scoring, rebounding and half a dozen other things. 
Saint Mary's has a few talented freshm~n, too. Seven to be exact. Anne Armstrong contmues to pump in the points and dish out the assists as she leads the four freshmen and one senior on the Belle starting line-up. . 
[contznued on page 13] 
., ­


~------~­
...... _ 






