.. . ERAatND-Page 11 

VOL. XIV, NO. 131 
THURSDAY, MAY I, 1980 
Student governtnent: cliches becom.e traditional approach 
by Michael Lewis This year's Student Body 
Exec. News Editor Emen"tus President election was panicu-_ larly revealing, because the three basic approaches to SG
f!.ditor's Note: This is the first 
were represented, and stu­
m a two-part analysis of Notre 
dents again chose what may be
Dame's Student Government. 
called a "traditional" (for lack
Today 's articie looks at the 
of a better term) approach to
Student Government's 
the office.
''traditional'' approach to 
SBP Paul Riehle and his
issues on campus. Tomorrow's 
closest competitor Tom Beh­
artzcle will deal with the 
ney, both articulated this tradi­
creation and problems of the 
tional attitude toward student
Campus Lzfe Council. 
representation. Riehle and Behney stressed
Forums, debates, "improve their experience in variouscommunications,'' ''make Stu­student offices, their familiari­dent Government more effec­ty in dealing with administra­tive," dorm visits, endorse­tion officials, and their "realis­ments, ·'make the administra­tic" and "feasible" platforms.
tion more responsive to the Riehle tole The 
Observer's
students," and, last but not editorial board before the elec­least, the call for "student tion that he believed he knewinput." 
"what would fly" with the Student Government cam­people under the dome, andpaign cliches. Every Notre could use that knowledge in Dame student has heard them planning for SG action. (Riehleat least once. 
also publicly expressed confi­And, just as the same issues dence that the most recent of 
and cliches seem to surface several keg proposals would be Presidential candtdate Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, stepping up hts Indiana campaign as year after year, the same basic accepted, at least on an experi­the primary draws near, will reportedly vzsit Notre Dame this Sunday. [photo by joe approaches to mental basis. It never made it Raymond].News Student Gov­out of the Campus LifeI ernment are Council.)
Analysis advocated by Followers of this traditional
I the candi­approach, including past SBP's dates, and students choose the Bill Roche, Andy McKenna, 
Kennedy may speak at ND
t 
same basic approach. SG, as Dave Bender and Mike Gass­one would expect, also has man, realize that SG has no about the same track record legislative power to forge 
each year. There seems to be no changes on their own. Thus Observer that a final decision would be
by}ohn McGrath 
indication of change in the near News Editor forthcoming during the day today. 
[continued on page 3]
future. However, he indicated that early plans had called for Kennedy to arrive in South Bend from 
Unconfimed reports were circulating last 
Gary sometime between noon and 3 p.m. on
night that Democratic Presidential challengerUS. commandos Sen. Edward M. Kennedy would visit South Sunday. 
The South Bend Tn'bune first disclosed theBend over the weekend and possibly make an possibility of a Kennedy visit in its Tuesday
appearance at Notre Dame on Sunday. 
editions.
Bodies remain in Iran 
One student closely associated· with the Security and scheduling problems have yet to
Kennedy campaign on campus said last night be worked out, sources said, but Kennedythat there were tentative plans for the Senator to 
by The Associated Press for Iran's Arab-populated advance people and secret service agents are
speak at the Stepan Center at 2 p.m. Sunday. He
southwest, invaded the Iranian expected to arrive at week's end to make final
refused to be named but added that there had
A leading ayatollah put the Embassy in London and took arrangements.bodies of eight U.S. some 20 hostages, police said. been some speculation that Dan Devine and 
Kennedy desparately needs to win the Indiana 
commandos at the center of a Unconfirmed reports said they Digger Phelps along with members of Notre 
new political tug-of-war in Iran were demanding freedom for primary, scheduled for May 6, to keep his
Dame sports teams would also be present at the 
yesterday, saying Ayatollah political prisoners in Iran. rally. presidential aspirations alive. A strong showing 
Ruhollah Khomemi or the in Indiana would continue Kennedy's recent
Iran's 53 American hostages 
Joe Slovinec, former president for the Young string of successes in other industrial states likeRevolutionary Council, not spent their 179th day in captiv­
President Abolhassan ity, some of them now report-Democrats Association on campus admitted that New York and Pennsylvania, and help cut there are tentative plans for the Senator's visit, President Carter's lead in the delegate count for 
Bani-Sadr, must decide whether the Americans' re­[continued on page 5] but refused to confirm them, advising The this summer's national convention. mains should be sent home. 
As Ayatollah Mohammad Beheshti set out these condi­tions, two Catholic clergymen 
Students, trustees to discussfuture goals
were visiting the Tehran morgue where the bodies were being kept. 
The rwo -Greek Catholic The Student Affairs Committee how we wam a student center to center. Riehle refused to student center proposal. Archbishof Hilarion Capudji of the Board of Trustees be built,'' Riehle explained. confirm or deny these rumors, The social concerns center and Papa Nuncio Monstgnor convenes today, and student "Rather, we want them saying that no definite plans proposal is the second new item Annibale Bugnmi -prayed and government officials are (trustees) to believe that we have yet been formulated. on the meeting's agenda, and sprinkled holy water over the e;xp<:cted to present several (students) definitely want and will examine the possibility of bodies, remains of eight stgmficanr proposals including need a student center,and then "We're not looking for any converting the WNDU building servicemen killed in an aircraft some advocating an icrease in we'll get down to basics. " kind of timetable on this thing. imo a center which would house collision when the attempt to the student fee, the ' ' We ' v e progressed It's going to be a long process, ~all? pus volunteer organ-rescue the U.S. Embassy hos­construction of a new student academically here at Notre but what we have to do is to 1zanons. tages was aborted last Friday in center and the conversion of the Dame, but we've failed to make them {trustees) see that "We have so many volunteer the Iranian desert. present WNDU building into a progress socially. For a the student center should be organizations here on campus, 
Capudji, with the Swiss social concerns center. university to function on a next on the building priority and I think that's what Notte government and the Inter­While expressing optimism healthy level, the two have to list," Riehle explained. Dame is all about,'· Riehle said. national Red Cross, has taken about the outcome of the go hand in hand," Riehle said. Currently, informed sources "But right now, we don't have on the responsibility for trans­meeting, Student Body ''A new student center would have indicated that a faculty any central location for them to ferring the bodies out of Iran. President Paul Riehle cautioned go a long way to help the social office building is next on the use.'' 
Iran's domestic troubles, students not to expect too much situation around here.'' university's building priority ''There are over 1000 people meanwhile, flared into terrorist immediate acrwn on the The old fieldhouse area has list. here who are involved-in violence in London. proposals. recently been mentioned Don Murday, an executive volunteer organizations and 
Three armed Iranian Arabs, "We don't want to say among some circles as a coordinator on Riehle's cabinet, 
[continued on page 5]
supporters of autonomy specifically where, when, and possible site for a new student will present the eight page 













News in brief 
Thursday,May 1, 1980-page 2 
' 'In alimited way''

Congress endsdelays, pushes 
Carter rejoins campaign trail 
important energy.project 
WASHINGTON (AP)-House and senate negotiators, WASHINGTON (AP) -He can't be held hostage the audience whether he wasending five months of deliberations, agreed yesterday on President Carter, abandoning here forever," said the official, about to "get out into thelegislation designed to slash the red tape that might delay his Rose Garden campaign who asked not to be identified. countryside." Carter replied,the nation's most important energy projects. The decision strategy, said yesterday he "He's got to get out into the "Yes." And explained that he to create an Energy Mobilization Board, which could will begin "limited" campaign country to explain his policies" had stayed in the White Housetop-priority energy projects on a "fast track" through the travel. and see what others are saying. ''a long time ... under bureaucracy, will give President Carter one of the The president, addressing a There was no immediate extraordinary circums ranees. ' ' foundations of his long-delayed energy policy after lt ts group of community leaders in indication where Carter Citing recent accomplish­approved by votes of the full Senate and House. 
the White House, said he could planned to travel. However, ments, the_president observed
. 

embark on a new course there had been speculation that an effort to rescue the because the crises that he said earlier that any trips would not American hostages in Tehran kept him in Washington are be to states where primary had been attempted and the
Van Dyke 's songets big-name 
''manageable enough.'' elections are imminent. administration's case for Except for a trip Monday to Carter's challenger for the support has been made to 
San Antonio, Texas, to visit the Democratic presidential the Western allies and Japan. injured survivors of the aborted nomination, Sen. Edward M. He said that economic SALEM* Ore.(AP)-It apparently hasn't hurt the candi­
help in election campaign 
hostage rescue mission in Iran, Kennedy, has demanded sanctions against Iran are in date for Marion County dtstrict attorney that his father is 
Carter has limited his publicly repeatedly that the president place and that he will keep the entertainer Dick Van Dyke. Now an assistant Oregon 
announced travel to trips to ''get out of the Rose Garden'' plight of the hostages before attorney general, Chris Van Dyke lists among his campaign Camp David, the presidential and debate the campaign issues the American public. 
contributors the likes of Mary Tyler Moore and her retreat in western Maryland. with him. ''I will in the pext few weeks, estranged husband, Grant Tinker, who gave $200. Other The president halted his Carter was asked by a in a limited way, travel more donors included Carl Reiner, Ed Asner, and McLean public travel when Iranian Democratic National than I have in the past,'' he Stevenson, who each donated $100; Lucille Ball, $250; and militants took American Committee official who was in said. 
Danny Thomas, Jack Klugman, and Norman Lear, $500 
hostages when they seized the each. 
U.S. Embassy on November 

4. CANOE RENTAL 
As the president spoke, a
Weather 

senior White House official said 
12 miles from campus Becoming pa~tly ~unny ~oday ~ith daytim~ highs in the 
the shift in policy is 

GROUP RATES middle 60s. Fa1r skies at mght wuh lows rangmg from 45 to 
''Something a lot of people 
""""""'.......__TR~~SPORTATION AVAILABLE

50. Partly sunny Friday with highs in the mid to upper 60s. 
wanted to see for a long 

time." ·------­
Float the St. Joe or the fast Dowagiac .c::;;;:;--=­
··--·­

--------------·-------------­
Call 610/695-2250 for reservations 
r--The_Ohs.erY-er_ 
The Funniest Staff 

THE SPORT CORNER
Anywhere

Ca111p_~___s-------4 
320 N. Redbud Tr., Buchanan, Mich. 
Night Editor: Steve' 'Gee! .... no, GTE'' Swonk Asst. Night Editor: Eddie1:15pm GERONTOLOGY LECTURE "care of older adults," 

"Yeah, I turned down Hat·­

dr. may e. martucci, smc, 351 MADELEVA spon. by 
vard, so what? '' Holden

sociology, anthropology and social work 
Deirdre Murphy 

Copy Editor: Kathy ''a wo­stirred tank and bubble column reactors,'' daniel huang, nd. 
3:25pm SEMINAR "Multiplicity criteria for gas-liquid 
man, Pot a sex object'' Casey News Editor: The incredibly freewheeling and really easy 

356 FITZPATRICK spon. by chemical engineering dept. 
M~rgte Brassil [call anytime]

3:30pm SEMINAR "instabilities of a spinning-down flow,'' 
Editorial Layout: MtciJaet spon. by aero-mech. engr. 
prof stephen davis, northwestern u. 356 FITZPATRIC/:: 
"also an easy date" Onufrak 
Features Layout· Sa/Granata 

Sports Layout: Tom "the enteric microorganisms in mutagenic activat~on of dmgs, ' 
4:30 NIEUWLAND LECTURE-IN BIOLOGY "the role d 
Lusty Male" Schuster 
Sports Copy Editor: Beth 
"Z... " Hujjman 

dr. ernest buedmg, GALVIN AUD. 
Typists and other sadistic MEMBERS IN THE BULLA SHED 
5pm MEETING AND DINNER FOR TECH REVIEW 
persons: Beth "Beat Me" 
Huffman, Kathy ''Tie me 

up '' Festin, Carol ''pass the zahm hall) special intentions for the soul of I!1rs. luctlle sayre, 
5:15pm ZAHM HALL MASS IN THE GROTTO (if rain in 
butter'' Shu back, Mark ''where 's my chain collec­tion?'' Perry, Nancy ''Spiked 

fr. tallarida celebrant, all wdcome 
Heels'' Russel

6:30pm MEETING, aiesec (international association of 
EMTs (really sadistic people) 
Mark ''Don't Stop'' Perry, 

students in economics and business), LAFORTUNE LITTLE 
THEATRE 
Scoop ''It Hurts So Good!'' 
Sullivan

6:30 pm MEETING sailing club new members welcomed 
Proofreader: Bruce ''THE 
PROOFREADER'' Oakley 

ROOM 204 O'SHAG 
ND Day Editor: janet ''al­church of jesus chnst of latter day samts 
7pm FILM "are y~m listening?" Bl[LLA SHED spc•n. by 
ways available, guys'' Ri­
gaux 

SMC Day Editor: Who really club 
7 ,9, 11 pm FILM"deliverance" ENGR. AUD spon. by dvlphin 
cares? All those "SMC 
Chicks'' are all airheads 
anyway.

7:30pm LECTURE "the commonwealth writer and the 
Supplement Layout: john samoan novelist. 3310'SHAG spon. by english dept. 
emerging literature of the south pacific,'' albert wendt, 
''You don't have to do the draft picks over again'' 
Smith, Mikey, Bethy

7:30pm LECTURE ''geologic strat.egy: the .p<Jwer . of 
Photographer: We hate you, of science'' dr. raymond gutschick spon. by college of~ cience 
observation, models confidence, tenauty and the mr,~gratton 
so we got john 'Jack of all 
trades'' McGrath .

student council IN THE LIB. AUD. 
Guest Aooearances: Mzke ''Hootervzlle'' Conyngham

8pm LECTURE "the revolutionary church," gerard nc, vi, english literature critic and writer, GALVIN AUD. spon. L v 
The Obaernr (USPS 598 920) Is

theology and history dept. 
published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obstrver Is published by the students of Notre Dame and

8:15pm RECITAL lisa mahoney, flute, MEM. LIB. AUD. 
spon. by music dept. 
Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year

9pm N AZZ lisa barrett on guitarI vocals 
($10 per semester) by writing The Obaerver, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class

lOpm NAZZ mel wesley on guitar/vocals 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

lOpm MEETING students united for responsible energy 
The Obaernr Is a member of the 
Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.

(sure) BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE 

·---------------------­


The Observer Thursday,May 1, 1980-page 3 
In I.oodon 



Militants invade Iranian Embassy 
LONDON (AP)-Three ''Ar­ab power'' militants took over the Iranian Embassy on a quiet London back street yesterday and threatened to kill their 20 hostages unless Ayatolloah Ru­hollah Khomeini 's regime frees 91 political prisoners held in Iran's Arab-populated oil belt. 
If the Tehran government does not meet their demand by noon today, the gunmen said, theywill blow up the building. 
The three terrorists, report­edly armed with submachine guns or carbines, identified themselves as Arabs from Khu­zestan who support autonomy for that region of southwest Iran. 
The British Broadcasting Corp., which received the ulti­matum in a telephone call from the embassy, said the gunmen reported one of their hostages had been wounded and they wanted a doctor. The victim was not identified. 
Witnesses had said they heard gunfire as the terrorists forced their way into the build­ing at 6:30a.m. EDT. 
The only other casualty re­ported was a woman captive who was released in late after­noon suffering from what police said was severe shock. She was carried out on a stretcher and rushed off by ambulance. 
Police said her release left 20 hostages, including a British police guard. The top Iranian dtplomat in London, Charge d'Affaires Gholan-Hli Afrouz, also was reported among those held captive. 
The BBC said the terrorists also demanded a safe flight out of Britain for themselves and their hostages. 
Police later confirmed the gunmen's demands were simi­lar to those reported by the BBC. And "there is certainly a 
Sorinites 
honor professors 
by Michael Mader StaffReporter 
Residents of Sorin Hall last 
night honored four professors 
with the Paul Fenlon Teaching 
Award, an award bearing the 
name of the guest of honor and 
Sorin Hall's resident of 63 
years. The students presented 
the awards at a dinner on the 
top floor of St. Joseph Bank. 
The dinner is the first in what is 
to be an annual event honoring 
an instructor in each College of 
the University. 
Fenlon, a retired professor of English, joked with the students, suggesting they live with him in Sorin for another 60 years. M. C. Paul Lewis responded by noting that his father was born the same year Fenlon moved into Sorin. 
The winner of the Fenlon 
teaching award for the College 
of Engineering was Assistant 
Professor James Houghton, the 
assistant chairman of aerospace 
and mechanical engineering. 
Professor Paul Chagnon, 
assistant chairman of physics, 
received the science award. 
The Business Administration 
winner was Robert Drevs, 
instructor in Marketing, and 
the winner of the Arts and 
[continued on page 6] 

threat of hostages ue· ng killed,'' Deputy Assistant Po­lice Commissioner John Dellow told reporters. 
He also said, "Twenty-four hours has been memioned. '' 
The British Foreign Office was in contact with the Iranian revolutionary government of Khomeini, and assured it that Britain would end the seige speedily' 'and so far as possible without casualties.'' 
Arabs are an ethnic minority in Iran, concentrated in oil-rich Khuzestan province. Dissidents among the 2 million Arabs there have been agitating for the past year for greater auton­omy from the Persian-domin­ated central government. 
Among other things, they want the right to use Arabic as their official language, greater control over education and a larger share of the oil wealth. Some want outright secession. 
Militants in Khuzestan -the Arabs call it Arabistan -have sabotaged pipelines, set off bombs in ctty streets and attacked government officials and security men. Several have been executed in recent weeks. The London terrorists said the 91 whose freedom they were demanding were all being held in Khuzestan. 
••• Student(;overnrnent 
[continued from page 1] 

they stress "nesotiating" with the administration, represent­ing the students' viewpoint in major decisions. 
There are some indications that Riehle will not stick solely to this traditional attitude. He was, for example, a leader in the ''save hockey'' protest at the Marquette basketball game. But his candidacy rested on the traditional ap­proach, and his further actions, obviously, remain to be judged. 
Candidate Bob Carey articu­lated some students' sense of frustration with the traditional approach. While he stopped short of advocating ''fighting in the streets," Carey did assert that students have tools in dealing with the administra­tion; the money .students pay, and the image alumni and administrators like to attribute to the students. Carey was eliminated in the first round of the elections. 
Candidate Bill "Slatts" Slat­tery articulated the opposite, and third basic approach to student government. Citing the relattve powerlessness of student government, Slattery advocated a more entertain­ment-oriented administration. He seemed to be saying, ''we can't change anything anyway, so to hell with it." 
The most famous advocate of this ''to hell with it'' school is undoubtedly R. Calhoun (King) Kersten, who was elected tn 1972 with his running mate, UnCandidate, a female car. Kersten dressed in a king's robe and fake crown, and his administration is still remem­bered more for his outrageous exploits than his accomplish­ments. 
Slattery's support probably came from another group of students who are frustrated with the traditional approach. reasoning •that any major change at Notre Dame will rake years to accomplish, if it is accomplished at all,. Slatts abandoned most of the usual SBP platform issues. 
These three approaches sur­face in varying degree in almost every SBP electton. Yet the traditional candidate is chosen by the students time after time (with the notable exception of "King" Kersten.) 
There is no indication that this trend will change in the near future. The entrance survey of ND freshmen, re­leased by information services, shows that ND students echo the general trend of conserva­tism found nationwide. Thus it would srf'm that the future 
looks bright for these tradition­
al candidates. 
Because of the SG' s lack of 
direct authority, issues also 
seem !epetitive. John Barker, 
SBP tn 1971-72, outlined a 
blueprint for future SBPs for 
The Observer in February, 
1973. He saw the three 
functions of SG as representa­
tion, ''watchdoggins'' with re­
spect to ~dministratlve actions, 
and servtce such as Ombuds­
man. 
Some of his 20 points should sound familiar to present ND students. ''Is tenure a dead issue?'' he wrote. He also called for SG action in student security, self-responsibility, drug abuse, and the then­active honor system. He also wrote "physical renovation of the student center is a must.'' All of these issues have sur­faced in one form or another in recent SBP elections, with little concrete progress. 
Barker's most telling com­ment concerned the students' knowledge of SG. "For one thing," he wrote, "much of what Student Government does is not credited to student government by the everyday student, or anyone else, for that matter.'' 
Outgoing SBP Bill Roche no doubt felt this problem when he termed his administration a "subtle success" before he left office. 
Much of what student gov­ernment does, however, cannot be seen by the students be­cause of the SBP's traditional approach to his office. Negoti­ations with the administration, by definition and practice, in­volve compromise behind closed doors. When something is gained in these meetings, it is usually a far cry from the SBP's original platform, lead­ing to a sense of frustration in the student body. This is inherent, however, in negoti­ating-something must be compromised. 
A good example was the so-called "student rights" is­sue in September of 1978. Following an alcohol directive by Dean of Students James Roemer which indicated that University regulations on drinking in the stadium and on University property would be strictly enforced then SBP An­dy McKenna and the H::dl President's Coucil met with administration officials. The matter blossomed into an issue of student rights-the students wanted a voice in such matters before directives were issued. 
After a few late nights and much concern, the rough edges 
[~ontinued on page 4] 

---~-~----~ -----­
The lntemolionalAmphitheatre
This Saturday May 3 8:00 C.D. T. 

Excellent tickets (main floor) are now on for fhe Who concert at River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North Call277-4242 for further information 
--------------------·--------­



FLEETWOOD 

MAC And Christopher Cross 
Wed. & Thurs. May 14 & 15 
Rosemont Horizon Rosemont, Illinois 

TicketsB-SEGERon sale at River City _______ Records _ 
AndTheSilver Bullet Band 
FridayMa~ 23 

Rosemont Horizon . ___!_i~~e.!~~-~!:!~~i~~r_Cj!}'_~e~~2! __ 
URITEYTh~bys 
Notre Dame A.C.C. Ticketson sale at River City Records 
and
ZTOP Roadmaster 
Saturday May 10 
Fort Wayne Coliseum Ticketson sale at River City Records 

TOM CRAPilll 
SOB SEALS BLUES BARD This Friday, May 2 
Vegetable Buddies, South Bend 

.!if!~~jl_y~g~QJ~~!_~-V~!~i~-~~C_9!~S
UJ'US featuring 
ChakaKahn 
guest The Brothers Johnson 
This Saturdav Mav 3 
Notre Dame ACC tickets available at River City Records 
----------------------------··· 


PATTRAV!RS 
Wednesday May ;~ 
Morris Civic Auditorium, South Bend tickets on sale at River City Records 




--------------~----------~-~--------------------~--------~------------------------------~~---.--~ 
The Observer Thursday,May 1, 1980-page4 

Cro\\Te receives NSF grant to aidinsearchfor life 
Michael J. Crowe, professor Extraterrestnal Intelligent Ltfe in the general program of from Fontenelle to Lowell. liberal studies and the graduate Program in the history and Crowe's book will examine philosophy of science has been man's conceptions of life be­awarded a grant ot $38,025 by yond the earth from the seven­the National Science Founda­teench to the early twentieth tion to support his research for century. Crowe is tracing this a book on the history of ideas of development in relation to as­extraterrestrial life. Crowe's tronomy, philosophy, religion research, which was funded and other areas of learning. He over the past three years by an has recently taught an essay earlier N.S.F. grant, will be tutorial in the general program extended to allow him to com­on this subject and has lectured plete a book tentatively titled: on the topic at· a number of The Extraterrestrial Lzfe De­universities and meetings of bate: A History of Ideas of scholars. 
...Student Government 
This after-the-fact remedy is major issue breaks, most tradi­a characteristic of the tradi­tional SBPs can react. to it, tional approach. The student claiming that the students rights issue, the Logan Center should have had a voice in the budget cut in 1977, and the matter. most recent controversy over SG does poorly, however, the hockey program reveal that when reacting to issues that 
SG reacts well to situations need sustained effort, or are 
that are unforseen. When a very controversial. Many stu­


PRE-INTRODUCTORY OFFER 
New Magnafine and Magnachrome Quality Cassettes 
DURING MAY ONLY unbelievable prices will apply on advance 
..  orders only:  C-60  C-90  
Magnafine I --Normal bias (120 ~sec. --Low noise --Ultra dynamic quality  eq.)  $1 .:Jo  $1.60  
Magnafine I I  $1.63  $1.95  

--Normal bias (120 tJSec. eq.) 
--Low noise, high output 
--Extended dynamic range 
--Professional quality 
Magnachrome $1.98 $2.35 
--High bias (70 ~sec. eq.) --Professional quality mastering tape --Chromium dioxide formulation 
IMPORTANT: This is the only opportunitv you'll have to purchase these high-quality
. . tapes at this price. Please allow 4-6 weeks for delivery. 
YES! I'd like to take advantage of this one-time oHer. Please send me the following: 
Quantity  Total  
Magnafine I Magnafine I  C-60 C-90  --X $1.30 --X  1.60  ADD 25~ PER TAPE FOR SHIPPING Michigan Residents Ad 4%Tax  
Magnafine II Magnafine II Magnachrome Magnachrome  C-60 C-90 C-60 C-90  X X X X  1.63 1.95 1.98 2.35  Send your check with this order blank to: Pre-Introductory oHer Studio 91 Berrien Springs, Ml 49104  

dents, for example, are con­cerned about the number of professors who did not receive tenure this year. Yet Roche, Riehle and the other traditional SBP types have had little to say about the matter. 
Again, this seems to be inherent in the traditional ap­proach. When an issue had to be negotiated over a long period of time, and when other matters also distracted the two parties (such as running the University and SG day to day) nothing seems, to the students, at least, to be coming out of those closed doors. 
Whether or not SG is ''effec­Live" can be debated forever, but a few things are clear. The traditional approach to Student Government has dominated the office of SBP, and indications are that it will for at least the 
next  few  years.  Alternative  
candidates,  such  as  Bruce ·  
Blanco,  Mike  ''Hymie''  

Heaney, Bob Carey and "Slatts" Slattery have consis­tently been rejected by the students. 
Secondly, the accomplish­ments of these traditional can­didates and the platforms they espouse, are similar and will continue to be so. With their style of compromise and nego­tiating, most successes are bound to be "subtle," even though they may be of major import. But because they are not visible, and because most students, as Barker noted, seem confused about SG, there is bound to be a certain frustration in the student body, and SBPs are bound to fall short of their goals. 
No one really knows how successful the other ap­proaches to SG would be-they have not had a chance. But experience with the admini­stration, and the on-again, off-again support found among most students indicate that the other two attitudes would not be much more successful. 
What may be in order is a re-evaluation of SG by the everyday student, not by the candidates. Students may be expecting too much, or be led to expect too much by ''experi­enced" and "realistic" candi­dates. But, in any event, the face and substance of student government at Notre Dame, like the cliches and issues, will u:majg much the same for the next few years. 

The Observer Thursday,May 1, 1980-page 5 
SMC singers present concert 
spell," as well as pieces by 
. Schutz, Sweelinck, Hammer­.;.-------~­schmidt and four motets by Durufle, based on Gregorian 
... Bodies I
chant. The combined ND/SMC Col­



~BUS SCHEDULE FOR
5Q¢MOLSON$1.7 5 PITCHERS "UNDER MILKWOOD" 
(~RIL 25,26 MAY 1,2,3)

thursday, 
~25pm STMARY'S ~LEMANSHALL)----A
friday& saturday 

CENTURY CENTER 
fBENDIXTHEATRE)

good food, gOOd drink, 
lO:OOptn CENTURY CENTER-----K
good times atLEE'S 
( BENDIX THEATRE) (LEMANSHALL
must have 21 id 



legiate Choir will present pieces 
[continued from page 1]

by Distler, Brahms, Dawson and Bright, and the Women's edly scattered to five Iranian 
,Choir will sing selected works cities besides Tehran. by Medelssohn, Brahms, and a Ayatollah Beheshti, who is "Magnificat" by Porpora. Justice Minister and first 
During the past year, the secretary of the ruling revol­
..~=========================== 
• • • Trustees 
[continuedfrompage 1] 

social concerns, but right now they're spread out all over campus," Riehle said. "I think it would be great to use the WNDU building for this purpose, but we'd like to ake an approach similar to the one on the student center-that is, not to press so much for immediate conversion of the WNDU building, but rather, make it obvious to the trustees that we also expressed an interest in acquiring the property when WNDU vacates the site-currently expected to happen some time next year. 
SBVP Don Ciancio will _{)resent a proposal requesting a $5 increase in the student activities fee. Riehle justified the increase by promising an increase in social activities next year. 
Frank Guilfoyle, another of Riehle's executive coodin­ators, will outline and present utionary Council, heads the Islamic Republican party, which is trying to undercut the strength of President Bani-Sadr in order to solidity the dominance of the Moslem clergy in Iran. 

After the Americans' bodies were recovered over the week­end, Beheshti said the Council should decide their disposition. 
His party's newspaper called for a barter -the bodies in 
Now open 7days

exchange for the release of some $8 billion in Iranian assets . ordered frozen by 
a week till President Carter last November. 


FREE DELIVERY

But Bani-Sadr later said the bodies would be handed over to intermediaries without pre­

EVERY NIGHT

condition. Addressing a Tehran news conference yesterday, Beheshti 
232-1883 233-8989 said Iran does not want money for the bodies. But said the 
repatriation of the remains open till 3om FRID~Ynd SATURDAY "must be decided either by the 
The annual Spring Choral Concert featuring the Saint Mary's Chamber Singers, Col­legiate Choir and Women's choir will be presented tonight at 8 in Moreau Hall's Little Theatre. The concert is open to the public without charge. 
The  Chamber  Singers,  a  
mixed  vocal  ensemble  com­ 
posed  of students from  SMC  

and Notre Dame, will perform a choral medley from ''God­
Chamber Singers were feo:ttured at the Madrigal Dinnc:rs in December and sang for the American composer Ned Rorem in February. They recently returned from a two-week con­cert tour which took them to Atlanta, Charlotte, Ft. Lauder­dale, Washington, and Pitts­burgh. 
The Collegiate Choir ~ave a concert at St. Paul's Eptscopa! 

Church in LaPort in March and the Women's Choir performed at Wabash College in February and recently sang at a Mass at Notre Dame Cathedral in Chi­cago. 
The Spring Choral Concert will be directed by Dr. Ray­mond Sprague, assistant pro­fessor of music at SMC and director of the Chamber Sing­ers. 



JOB OPPORTUNITY with brand energysavingproductfor cars andtmcks. ..,,A...... timepeople can easily make $10perhour 
Full' time much more. 
Call collect for an appointmentat 
(616)471-5161 

do need something like this.'' 
A social concerns center is not the only use hat has been proposed, however, for the use of the WNDU studios. At least three other campus organiz­ations including WSND and the audio-visual department have 
Hesburgh to honor Evans 
The Joseph W. Evans Me­morial Crossroads, named after the late Notre Dame philoso­phy professor, will be dedica­ted at 2 p.m. on Sunday, May 
11. The crossroads are the brick paths which conver~e on the fountain between Nteuw­land and Crowley Halls. 
University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh will dedi­cate a plaque in honor of Evans' contributions to the :Jniversity community. For ;urther information, contact Tom Hamel at 1420. The public is invited to attend. 
an update on dormitory social space at the trustee meeting. Riehle said he is aimig for the institution of an annual housing fund, and Guilfoyle's presenta­tion will be keyed toward that goal. 
''The money that was allocated tothe dorms this year by the HPC really helped out,'' Riehle said. "But we need to put that much into the dorms every year to keep them liveable. '' 

ND~-G--••-T-5--~-~· 
PREMIERE ~ 
• 
Dully'• People •• Maureen Read 

• 
Supper'• at Sill •• Martha J. McLean 'Sfl'elltb Seal •• Tom Clark 

• 
Two of Us •• Karl Meyer 




_e 4 PM Sat. May 3 ,#!
v-~ 
SMC LITTLE THEATRE 
Imam (Khomeini) or the Revolutionary council." 
When a reporter suggested that keeping bodies is against Islamic morality, Beheshti replied, "Islam is based on the morality of humanity and nothing has been conducted but Islamic morality.'' 
The bearded clergyman did not elaborate on the plans for the bodies, but he left the clear impression that the transfer may be held up. 
(QmpusView ApQttments Now renting for summer 
1 bedtoom -S210 2 bedtoom -S250 

AVAILABLE JUNE-AUGUST 15

Central ait & heated pool 
CALL GAYLE FOR INFORmATION . 272-1441 The Place to be Off-Cam us 

·----'--------­




---------~----~~--­
The Observer·-···-Thursday, May 1, 1980 -page 6 

Spread paint, slogans 


Intruders disrupt U.N. 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -Two young men shouting ·radical slogans walked into the U.N. Security Council chamber yes­terday, and splattered the American and Soviet delegates with red paint. 
The paint reddened U.S. Deputy Chief Delegate William vanden Heuvel's neck and al­tnost completely covered the face of Soviet Ambassador Oleg 
H. Troyanosky. Witnesses said they shouted, "May Day!" and 

Players to present 

This masked visitor to the ND campus avozds getting his face in the pages ofThe Observer. [photo by Joel Annable] 

'Pippin' 
The Notre Dame Student Players have announced that their fall 1980 l?roduction will


IN CASE YOU'VE 
be the award wmning musical Pippin. People are needed to


MISSED US... 
work on all areas of the produc­
tion: music, stage managing, 
lighting, costumes, set design

WE'VE MISSED YOU! 
and construction, graphic de­sign and publicity. No experi­

Over the past decade, Michael & Co. has been 
ence in theatre is necessary.pleased to serve all of our valued Notre Dame and A preliminary organizational 
St. Mary's customers. Recently, we moved from meeting will be held Sunday at 
1:30 p.m. in the LaFortune 

our old Edison Rd. at Ind. 23 location which was. 
basement. Anyone interested in 

just Y2 mile away. Now we're only 2% miles away! participating in the show or in 
Still on Edison Rd. Still convenient. Still the dne. Joining S~udent _Players should ·attend this meeung or call Paul 
We welcome you to visit us soon at 
Kosidowski at 8933. 

our all new salon. 
Featuring hair and skincare products by: 


OBSERVER 

~ . 
PARTY!

I 
I 
at GIUSEPPE'S This Saturday! Starts at 8j»n

OPEN TUE. & THUR. 'Til9 P.M. 
Transportation
willbe provided 

let us help keep you that way. 







T Nl HT 
lEE'S and BUDWEISER present 
BOB MARLEY NIGHT 
. .-.... -· ·--·-·--·· 

All NIGHT lONG!! 
(must have 21 id)
senior class 


''Our flag is red, .not ·red, white, the Revolutionary Communist and blue! Down with Soviet­Partv, U.S.A. American war moves! '' Guilani said that since tha 
Secretary-General Kurt Wald­case involved'' diplomatically heim immediately ordered an protected personnel," any investigation of the incident, charges would be a federal 
which occured as the council matter and U.N. security offi­was about to convene to consid­cials called in the FBI. er a Tunisian resolution calling In finally calling the Security 
for a Palestinian state. Council to order, the council 
Vanden Huevel is second to president, Mexican Ambassa­Ambassador Donald F. Mc­dor Munoz Ledo, called the Henry on the American delega­incident ''disgraceful'' and ex­tion. He returned to the U.S. pressed ''special regrets to mission across the street from those who have suffered'' from 
U.N. headquarters on Manhat­it. tan's east side and said wryly, "I think I'll ask Ambassador McHenry to come over and give the speech.'' 
.. . Profs 

"It's just one of those ex­ercises in diplomacy,'' Vanden Huevel said. "One got me and [continued from page 3] 
the other got Ambassador Troy­anovsky. " Maintenance men cleaned up the mess in about 75 minutes and the council proceeded with the meeting. 

U.N. spokesman Francois Guilani identified the alleged attackers as Keith Kojimoto and· Stephen Yip and said the United Nations would file char­ges of trespass and malicious assault against them. The men refused to give their addresses or other personal details. 
Guilani said the casually dressed men, who entered the council with cameras, had since last July periodically renewed passes as photographers for the Revolutionary Worker, a news­paper described as the voice of 
• 
Letters award was Assistant Professor Thomas Marullo of the modern and classical language department. 
Each man has his name engraved on a large plaque which 'Yas presented to Fenlon. 
The instructors each received smaller plaques presented to them by students currently in their classes. 
After the awards were given, Sorin's Assistant Rector Fr. Ed "Monk" Malloy, talked about Fenlon and the award honoring him According to Malloy, in the years the assistant rector has known Fenlon, many alumni have stopped by Sorin to inquire about the long time resident. "The Dome is there, the church is there, and Sorin is there. But most of all, there are the people that alumni can come to see," Malloy said. 
"There isn't any greater testimony of love than to live among his students for 50 years, and in Sorin for 63 years,'' Malloy commended. 
Malloy explained that the awards for the instructors were not meant to honor their lives, but to recognize those who were dedicated to teaching their students. Naming the teachers to Fenlon's award was an appropriate recognition of the instructors' abilities, Malloy said. 

Guts chick 
to speak 
tonight 

Dr. Raymond Gutschick, pro­fessor emeritus of earth sci­ences at Notre Dame, will present "Geologic Strategy: The power of Observation, Models, Confidence, Tenacity and The Integration of Science" at 7:30 in the library auditorium tonight. 
A reception in the library lounge will follow. The lecture is the second in the Notre Dame Distinguished Scientist Lecture Series, sponsored by the College of Science Student Council. All are invited to attend free of charge. 
Gutschick joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1947 after earning his Ph.D. in geology from the University of Illinois and working as a geologist for petroleum compames tor five 
-years. He headed the Univer­sity's earth sciences depart­ment for 14 years and !n 1977 was awarded the Neil Miner Award from the National Asso­ciation of Geology Teachers . 
m 

2 2 
.............£...£.. 
Thursday,May 1, 1980-page 7





Editorials 
P.O.BoxQ 
Notre Dame April 24 Observer. As one of hero by presenting Bill Myler the game progressed, I found the officials labeled "intimi-as the underdog fighting all myself indeed starting to cheer dated," I feel deeply offended, odds. However, as anyone who for US. I was cheering for to state my sentiments mildly. was present could see, Myler them not because they were 
doesn't need your biased journ-white like myself and the 
I was not intimidated, Mr alistic style to become a hero. BUITS were black, but because Chval. Not by the BUITS, not He obviously will do fine on his they were the undenia51e un­by_ US, ffian4 not by the crowd. I own. derdogs. I was also cheering enJoy o tctating baskeball, and No, Mr. Chval, I was not for them because I found it this game was no exception. intimidated while reffing the hard not to cheer for someone
Dear Editor·. 

Your reference to my col-game. Though, there is one like Bill Myler who was literal­league as "spineless" was not aspect of this event that indeed ly throwing his body all over 
It is unfortunate that while only callous and cruel bur intimidated me: the fact that the court. As for my friends Frank LaGrotta was permitted unfound. 1 cannot speak for him you with your inane, ludricous, who came to the game with to clutter The Observer sports as to whether or not he felt and unfair allegations are al-me, three of them were rooting page with hisnewsletterfromthe Rosemary Mills intimitdated. 1can oi1ly saythat lowed to write in a newspaper. for the BUITS, and they were Bill Hanzlik Fan Club, pitifully 452 Farley Hall in my judgement he reffed a also white! little coverage was given to the Matt Huffman As for the referees, yes, they women's Bookstore tourna Editor's note: Rosemary Mills consistent basketball game. 546566 Irishwa_y 301 probably were intimidated. The ment. Although there wert is a former editor-in-chief of I'm not surprised that the -------------intimidation came not onlv more teams, more fans, and a The Observer. facts of the game were constru-} from both team's crowd, bu'r better quality of play in the ed, as facts often are in your ones wrong on also from the players them-men's tournament, the 32 J3cx>kstore ref column. First, Hardy Rayam's selves. I am sure several calls teams of women were more shove of my partner occured in J3cx>kstore were missed, but to say that evenly matched and put just as answers 'in.timid-the first half of the game, not the referees were purposely much effort into the game. Any the second. Secondly, the win-overlooking fouls in favor of US of the last eight teams could ning point scored by Bob Fagan prejudice is unfair. 1r is very difficult have won. More importantly, ation'claim did not come on a foul shot, but being a referee, especially in the idea of sports competition on a technical free throw. A Dear Editor: bookstore, and if you don't for fun and excitement was technical which I called on Ian believe me try it yourself! much more apparent in the Dear Editor: Ghrayi. He R~a>:s .£dor tdh~ bteam In the April 29 Observer I I am not trying to say that women's tournament. This ele-t ait w~s mttmt ate Y. read Miss A vis Jones, editorial there are not any problems ment was recognized neither by I am writing in response to rea1 tze that hour pukpose on the bookstore game, and I here at Notre Dame. There 
8 
. =T.::;;;'h;;::e=O=b=se=rv:=e=r=n=o=r==b=y=t=h=e==C=r=a=ig==C=h=v=a=l'=s=c=o=lu=m=n=in==th=e==w=a=s=t=o=c=r=e=a=te=a=n=:o=t=e=r==oo=s=t=o=re= could not believe we were at are' but that particular book-the same game, so I went over store game was not an example in my mind the facts about the of any of them. The game was

ntgovernment to /Y/J 0/Y~anz•ze
I c.-I ~ game as I saw them. Let's in fact a hard fought game in see...there were two teams, the tradition of bookstore! IfPaul Riehle one was all white and the other Miss Jones thinks it was an all black (so far we agree). The example offrejudice because a
Last Thursday, the Board of Commissioners All responsibiilites and policies would flow from BUITS did have at least two majority o the whites werevoted to set the wheels turning to restructure it· like the U.S. Senate, it would have standing football players and US did not cheering for US then sheStudent Government. 
c~mmittees for different functions (e.g. foreign have any. Funny, I can't think should take a good look atAfter reading the above sentence, I'll bet the policy, finances, social life) that would be of any other similarities be-herself because, by her ownfirst thing you thought was who is this Board of accountable to the whole body of representa­tween our versions. Granted, I admission, almost all of theCommissiOners? Such thinking itself points up tives. 
only saw the second half of the blacks there were cheering forthe problems in Notre Dame's Student Govern­
Whatever the form, a single government 
game, but I feel this is enough the BUITS and this then shouldment-nobody knows what it is, who it consists of, would be comprehensible; students would know to comment on Miss Jones' also be considered prejudice!!
or how it works. Our Student Government i~ who is doing what, and how it is being done. It arricle. •incredibly decentralized; we have the HPC, the would be a place where we could channel our When I first came over to theCLC, and the Board of Commissioners, but they energies, instead of spinning our wheels. It's game, I did not take any sides
are rarely working together to promote the Bart Corsare 
unity would give us a continuity to follow up because I didn't know any of
student good. Instead, they are often seen as 502 Planner Hall 
proposals like those for a student center. 
the players on either team. As
conflicting rivals. · Hopefully, it would also get more students Notre Dame students continually c~.cr:use acti\o _:y involved. . . themselves of being apathetic and disinterested. It is significant that the present body whtch ts 
Doones ury by Garry Trudea 
I disagree. It's true rhat some don't take what's supposed to decide student policy -the Bo~rd of going on around them, but such people are Commissioners-voted unanimously to begm .an everywhere. Notre Dame students are eager to investigation to determine how an effecuve 
14/fi&R& 7H& H&/.-1... 15 Y&AH, f<E[)ffl?N?' W& CL.O%

be active-just look at our h~av~ record of student government should be structured. We 
/3055? IN AN HOUR, ANPI

participation in volunteer organ~zauons. How~ will look into the history of Notre Dame Student 
1»/7H4V5 H/5 REA­

ever, many feel that concernmg ?~-campus Government to determine how we arrived at the issues, their time is better spent devtsmg ways system we now ha-v:e; w~. are in the p~oc~ss of of getting around the rules, rather than contacting other umverstttes that are stmtlar to spending time trying to change them. Though Notre Dame so that we can examine the make ~p 
tharmay sound funny, ev~ntually that ~oute lead,s of their student governments, and we ":'Ill to trouble. More tmportant. It doesn t continue to think about our own peculiar accomplish anything. .A.n~ there are many institutions. positive things to be accomplished. It is significant too that the Hall President's 
At the Board of Trustee meeting this week, Council completely agreed that the structure of 
among our proposals is a request for feasibility student government needs revision. In addition, study outlinin~ the cost and components of a almost every member that I spoke with on last major university student center. We need an year's CLC felt that there is a need to restructure outlet where we could get some R&R away from -and when was the last time the CLC agreed on the academic wars. Heaven forbid, "normal:' anything? 
social relations might even develop on thts I'm not a person who believes in "bureaucra­campus! If the study is done -and I can see no tic solutions''. I'm not a stickler even for reason why it shouldn't be done and a~out. 68 parlimentary procedure either. But I do think hundred reasons why it should -then It wtll that some changes have to be made. I hope you require on going support to pus? th~ plan agree too, because for anything to t.ruly be through. A real student cent<;r IS~ t bmlt over accomplished in Student Government, lt needs night, neither was the .Mem?~tal L1brary .or the student support. I ask you to get involved in ACC. Like those buildmgs, 1t 11 take conunuous Student Government. Specifically, think about backing and effort to get it constru~ted. what Student Government ought to be. Then 
Last year it was repeatedly sa~d that the come back in the Fall ready and able to make student voice must be heard. Bl:lt nght n.ow we real and positive changes. have too many voices and nothmg IS satd -~t 
Paul Riehle is Notre Dame's newly elected
least not lou(1 enough to hear. What we need IS 
Student Body President. He wtll address the 
a unified St~dent Gove~n.ment that ~an ~peak with one m:nd. I env1s1on somethmg hke a Notre Dame community through The 

student senate · to the U.S. model. Observer on a regular basts next year. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Edztor-m-Chlef.. Paul Mullaney SMC Nru·s Editor ........... Mary Leavitt Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Edaor . . . . . . .... Mark Rusr Spurts Editor ............... Beth Huffman 
The Obse1tf-'t'~ is an :ndependent newspaper published by the students of the Fe.Itures Edrtor .............. Kate Farrell
Ed.1.,onaIs E Jl .. ~~
~ ur or . . . .._1ike Onufrak
University of Notre DCJ.me duLac and Saint ~ary'~ C~llege. It does not necessanly Fr:.1tures Editor ............ Molly Woulfe
Semor Copy Editor ......... L~·nne Daley
reflect the pol!cies of the administration of etthe~ m~muuon. The news 1~ reported Photo Editor .................. John Macor
Neu·.\-Ed1tur. . ... Pam Degnanas accurately and as (}bjectively as possible: Edu~n~ls represenr the opm10n .of a 
majority of th<" Editorial Roard .. Com~entanes, opm10ns, and letters are th.e v1ews Neu·.~ Editor . . . . . . . ... Tom Jackman Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges 
of their authors Colvmn space IS available to all members of the c~mmumty, and News Edrtor . . . . . . . . . John .McGrath Advertismg Manager .. Mike Holsinger 
the free expre~sion of varying opinions on campus, through letters, ts encouraged. SA1C £,.:ecutiz'e J::'d11ur .. Margie Bras~il Production Manager .... Ann Monaghan 
. . ' ' .. . . ' 

iiiiiiiiiiiiii-.:· :..::1 I I P ---­


,\ 
ISports Special Thursday,May 1, 1980-pageS ' 

\' 
~ 
', 
( 
(' 
I• 

> \ 
f 
( 
c 
\ \ 

·r 
( 
( 
( I I 
! • 
l
( 
~ ~ 
Player: V agas Ferguson 
Position: Halfback 





NFL College J 
Drafted by: New England 
Round/Pick: 1st/ 25th 
Pick Overall: 25th 


1980NotreD 
Height: 6-1 

anObserver
Weight: 194lbs. 



Hometown: Richmond, fud. 

Player: Bobby Leopold Major: Arts & Letters 
Position: Linebacker Drafted by: San Francisco 
by Frank LaGrotta 

Round/Pick: 8th/17th
Sports W Titer 

Pick Overall: 2llth
'·I'm just very happy that some ream thought enough of me to draft me,'' said Vagas Ferguson At -the halfback, the Patriots are loaded with 

Height: 6-2
after learning that he was rl,e first round ptck of players such as Andy Johnson, Horace Ivory and the New England Patriots m Tuesday's National Chuck Foreman. Johnson, who was injured in Football League draft. the fifth game of last season, rushed fo ?75 yards 
Weight: 217lbs. 
"I've always wanted the chance to play pro in 1978-one of the reasons the Patnots were 
Hometo~n: Port Arthur,
football," he added. And I'm gonna give it my able to set an NFL record for total rushing yards 
best shot." gained in a season with 3,165. Ivory is 
. Tx.

Major: Economtcs 
Which is probably what it will take to crack a well-though of in league circles and one need 
Patriot line up that's stacked at the running back only loo~ at the record books to learn abour 
positions. Patriot coach, Ron Erhardt indicated Chuck Foreman. 
by Chris Needles 
that he would ideally like to use Ferguson at the A five-time all-pro for rhe Minnesota Vikings, 
Sports Writer 
halfback spot but added: Foreman went to the Patriots early this year in a ''Vagas has been a workhorse for Notre Dame trade. He is known for his strength, speed and 
In their continuing bid to join to said 49ers pubhctst Bnan Bilhck. 
and I think he can play either position with no ability to act as a receiver out of the backfield. 
Notre Dame Alumni Club of San "He's a capable player with good
difficutly," · Needless to say, Vagas Ferguson will have no Francisco, the San Francisco 49ers range, and he can play t~e weak 
The names Ferguson will be competing with cakewalk to a starting berth in the New England 
yesterday selected Irish linebacker side linebacker spot, whtch IS where are familiar to NFL fans. The Patriots' starting backfield. 
Bobby Leopold in the eigth round of we need the most help.
fullback is Sam "Bam" Cunningham, a seven­"I'm not looking for that," emphasized the National Football League draft. "But. _he will, have a lot of year star out of USC. Cunningham. is currently Ferguson, the first Notre Dame runnmg back Leopold now joins former Notre co~flli~kto~~ido.that the unusualan unsigned free agent and the Patriots hint that drafted in the opening round since Nick Eddy in Dame players Joe Montana, Keoit may be awhile before the team and 1967. 
MacAfee, Ernie Hughes, recently number of ND players on the San 
Cunningham come to terms. ''All I want is a chance to do the best I can and 
signed J ero.me Heavens, and Francisco roster was purelyOther returning backs i.1clude Don Calhoun, a the coaches and owners at New England 
recently acquired Willie Fry, on coincidental. "We don't acquiresix-year veteran out of Kansas State and Mosi promised me that. 
the 49er training ca:np roster. Norre Dame players specifically out 
Tatupu from Southern Cal. "I can't ask for anything more." 
"It's a thrill, a definite thrill," of design," he commented. "We Leopold said of being chosen as the do focus on the major· colleges, of 
rr~~:;;:===============~==================417th pick in the eighth round.."I course, but we don't pay particular 
originally had thoughts of bemg attention to one school.''
Player: Tim Foley 
drafted, but I wouldnt have been Leopold, though, sees it to his disappointed ifl hadn't been. 1 had advantage to have so many former an alternate plan just in cased/' teammares in training camp with "I'm pretty confident I can make him. "It can make things a lot the team," he continued, "but easier for me," the Port Arthur, 
Position: Off. Tackle 
Drafted by: Baltimore 
being an eighth round pick, I'm Texas, native said. "I can talk to going to have to prove myself.'' some of those guys ahead of time
Round/Pick: 2nd/23rd 
Ori the surface, it would appear and maybe they can give me a little that Leopold has a good chance of insight on what I have to do to make making the 49ers_, a team who the team. It could help me alot."
Pick Overall: 51st 
finished dead-last m the NFL last So Bobby Leopold's future as a season in defense and who needs as member of the San Francisco
Height:6-4 
much help defensively as they .can Fighting Irish, ... er, 49ers is up in get their hands on. But there IS a the air until training camp opens in catch--the 49ers also drafted three late July. But the 6-2, 217-pounder
Weight :265lbs. 
other lineLackers in the earlier certainly cannot hurt a team that rounds on Tuesday (Purdue's posted a measly 2-_14 ~ecord and
Hometown: Cincinnati,Ohio 
K T Craig Puki of gave up the most points m the 1979 T eena urnerd Da id Hodge of NFL season. All in all, it should be ennesse)e, an v an interesting summer for Bobby
Major: Arts & Letters 
Houston. L ld 
"I would say Bobby's chances of eopo .· 

Then, I just want to be able to make the team. I hope to be able to start at a tackle spot after 
Yesterday 's draft selections -r 
that." According to a Colts publicist, Foley figures 
1980 NATIONAl FOOTBAll lEAGUE (c) Santa Clara. 22. Washington-Melvin 
more prominently in their immediate plans than 
COllEGE PlAYER DRAFT Jones (g) Houston, 23. Philadelphia-Ter­hy Mike Previte that. "We sure hope he can fill that big gap for 
Final Six Rounds re! Ward (db) San Diego State, 24. Dallas-Lester Brown (rb) Clemson. 25.
Sports Wrz'ter us at offensive tackle,'' the Baltimore official 
Seventh Round New York Jets (from Houston)-Bennie · 
said, obviously pleased with the fact that the 
1. Detroit-Ed Murray (k) Tulane, 2. Leverett (rb) Bethune-Cookman, 26. San
Tim Foley, a rugged 265-pound tackle, sat Cincinnati native was still available when their 
Cincinnati (from San Francisco)-Ron Diego-Stuart Dodds (c) Montana State, 
Simpkins (lb) Michigan, 3. Cincinnati­27. Los Angeles-Gerry Ellis (rb) Missouri, he thought, as he picked up the receiver. It was need offensive line help. Eleven year veteran 
by his telephone. n·ng. "Surely its a pro team," pick came around. It is no secret that the Colts 
Gary Don Johnson (ot) Baylor, 4. Green 28. Pittsburgh-Nate Johnson (wr) Hills­Bay-Buddy Aydelette (ot) Alabama, 5. dale.
one of his friends calling to see about the draft. George Kunz was recently coaxed out of 
Baltim'lre-Wesley Roberts (de) Texas
"I was a nervous wreck by afternoon," said retirement to provide some beef up front. 
Eighth RoundChrist,an, 6. St. Louis-Ben Apuna (lb)
the UPI/NEA All-American, "But when the Foley will fly out to the Colts rookie camp from 
Arizona State, 7. Atlanta-Mike Smith (wr) 1. Oakland (fr':lm San Francisco)-Ken Colts called, what a thrill it was!'' May 11 through May 13 to go through practice 
Grambling, 8. Oakland (from the New Hill (db) Yale. 2. Baltimore (fromYork Giants)-Malcolm Barnwell (wr) Vir­
Detroit)-Ken V'1alter (ot) Texas Tech, 3.
Yes, the Baltimore Colts. Johnny Unitas, tests and hopefully sign a contract with the 
ginia Union, 9. Minnesota-Henry Johnson Cincinnati-Mark Lyles (rb) Florida State,
Lenny Moore, Gino Marchetti, Alan Ameche, ballclub. He joins former high school (Roger 
(lb) Georgia Tech, 10. San Diego (from 4. Denver (from Saltimore)-Don Coleman
Bert Jones, et al. Now Tim Foley was joining Bacon) teammate Steve Heimkreiter, who was 
Buffalo)-CQuck Loewen (g) South Dakota 
(wr) Oregon, 5. St, Louis-Dupree Branch this great tradition. on the injured reserve list last season. 
State, 11. Los Angeles (from Kansas (db) Colorado State, 6. Green Bay-Tim 
City)-Kirk Collins (db) Baylor, 12. New 
Smith (db) Oregon State, 7. New York
Foley was flown to Baltimore yesterday to An Irish tri-captain this past season, Foley 
Orleans-Mike Morucci (rb) Bloomsburg Giants-Ken Har•is (rb) Alabama, 8.
participate in a press conference w~th numb~r accumulated more playing time. than any other 
State, 13. New York Jets-Bob Batton (rb) Atlanta-A! Richardson (lb) Georgia Tech,
one.draft choice and world-class spnnter Curus ND offensive performer in 1978 and 1979. He 
Nevada-Las Vegas, 14. Houston (from 
9. Buhalo-Toa... Krueger (qb) Northern Dickey of Texas A & M. Unlike many of the joi.vs brother Dave, a veteran who toils for 
Oakland)-Craig Bradshaw (qb) Utah 
Michigan, 10. K~nsas City-Sam StepneyState, 15. New York Giants (from 
(I b) Bcston U nivarsity, 11. Seattle (from
brash rookies who feel that they should inherit a Buffalo's Bills, in having to face such intimi­
Seattle)-Darryl Herbert (db) Oklahoma, Minnesota)-Vic Minor (db) Northeast
fortune before they play a single NFL game, dating defensive linemen as Sugar Bear 
16. New England-Tom Kearns (g) Ken­Louis!ana. 12. ~t N York Jets-Jeff Dziama
Foley expects it to be about two years before he Hamilron of he Patriots and Curley Culp of 
tucky, 17. New York Giants (from (lbJ Bo.;ton Colfi'Q9, 13. New Orleans-Ch Cleveland)-Chris Linnin (de) Washington,
learns the Colts complex offensive system. Houston. 

Chuck Evans (lli: Stanford, 14. Seattle­18. Chk:ago-Emanuel Tolbert (wr) South­Jack Cosgfllve ;~) Pacific, 15. New
"I've tried to set realistic goals for myself," But somehow, the Colts have the confidence 
ern Methodist, 19. Denver-John Havekost Englanc;-Mike '·ouse (te) Pacific, 16.
said Foley, a Grace Hall resident. "My first that he'll .handle them with quiet efficiency ..... 
(g) Nebraska, 20. Miami-Joe Rose (te) Clfve41nd-Jeff Cvoeland (lb) Texas Tech,,
priority was to get drafter on a high round. one at a ttme. 
California, 21. Tampa Bay-Jim Leonard 
' 17. Si<1 rra.RiiiK11 {from Oakland] Bobby 


Sports Special Thursday,May 1, 1980-page9 

Football Dra~ 



)arne Draftees 
r sports special 

by Gary Grassey 
lO 
Sports Writer 
" 
When the phone call came in from Kansas City at 12:30 p.m., Rob Martinovich was not to· be re found. Now anybody who stands 6-5 and tips the scales at 260 is a of hard guy to lose, but for three-and­
a-half hours, Martinovich was in .al the dark about his future in U1 football. I Y It wasn't until he returned from re finishing some schoolwork at 4 ut p.m. that the departing Irish offen­Te sive tackle discovered he had been of drafted by the Chiefs. ar ''They were surprised I was still 
around,'' Martinovich joked in a 1.1s that's-what-they-all-say tone. "It er was a little disappointment for me th (to b~ passed up for nine rounds), ot but once the draft is over it just r, depends on who can make it and to who can't.'' 1e ''At that point we were looking le for the best athlete,'' commented 
Doug Kelly public relations assist­
ant for the Kansas City club, from a the Chiefs' front office yesterday :o afternoon. "We had some injuries n on our offensive line last year and n Rob's the only pure tackle we've 
~r 
taken. The only other offensive H lineman we took was Brad Budde d (the All-american guard from So­9 uthern Cal and son of former Chief e All-Pro Ed Budde)." y The options for Martinovich 
though, don't begin and end with 
leopold Jib] Notre ·oame, 18. Sf Louis­
Grant Hudson (dt) Virginia, 19. Miami· 
Jeff Allen (db) CaiDavis, 20. Tampa 
Bay-Derrick Goddard {db) Drake, 21. 
Miami (from Washington)-Dave Woodley 
(qb) Louisiana State, 22. Chicago-Randy 
Clark (g) Northern Illinois, 23. Dallas­
Larry Savage (lb) Michigan State, 24. 
Houston-Harold Bailey (rb) Oklahoma 
State, 25. Philadelphia-Mike Curcio (lb) 
Temple, 26. San Diego-Curtis Sirmone& 
(rb) North Alabama, 27. Los Angeles-Tom 
Pettigrew (t) Eastern Illinois, 28. Pitts­
burgh· Ted Walton (db) Connecticut. 
Ninth Round 
1. Detroit-DeWayne Jeff (wr) Hawaii, 2. Detroit (from San Francisco through Kansas City)-Tom Tuinei {dt) Hawaii, 3. Cincinnati-Greg Bright (db) Morehead State, 4. St. Louis-Stafford Mays (de) Washington, 5. Green Bay-Kelly Saafeld
!
(c) Nebraska, 6. Baltimore-Mark Bright (rb) Temple, 7. Atlanta-Glen Keller (c) West Texas State, 8. New York Giants­Otis Wonsley (rb) Alcorn State, 9. Kansas City-Tom Donovan {wr) Penn State, 10. Minnesota·Dennis Mosley (rb) Iowa, 11. Buffalo-Kent Davis (db) Southeast Miss­ouri, 12. New Orleans-Frank Mordica (rb) Vanderbilt, 13. New York Jets-Joe Peters (dt) Arizona State, 14. New England-Bar· ry Burget (lb) Oklahoma, 15. Cleveland-

Player :Rob Martinovich 
Position: Off. Tackle 
Drafted by: Kansas City Round/Pick: 10th/11th Pick Overall: 261st Height: 6-5 
Weight: 260lbs. 
Hometown:Houston, Tx. 
Major: Chemical Eng. 
pro football. ''I've already accepted a job with Phillips 66," he said. ''I'm being reasonable insetting goals. My fiancee and I both got JObs in Bartlesville, Oklahoma and that's just a prime location because it's only four hours away from Kansas City.'' 
After being bounced around the defensive line and the tight end spot early on in his Notre Dame career, Martinovich made the switch to offensive tackle as an understudy to Tim Foley during the 1977 national c~ampionship year. 
fixture on the left side of theline as the starting tackle, while Foley remained at his right tackle slot. . 
Since the, the burly Grace Hall resident has started every game for Notre Dame and his credentials earned him a trip to the 1980 Hula Bowl with departing cornerback Dave Waymer. 
''Both the Chiefs and Phillips have been very understanding,'' Martinovich explained. "I'II be taking most of the summer off. I'm not scheduled to report to Phillips before August, so I should have a better idea about my situation by then. 
"You know, there's still that challenge to prove to myself I can play. They (the Chiefs) just told me to report in shape and that I'd get an equal chance. 
-rounds seven through twelve 

By 1978, Marunovtch became a t=========================================t 
Roy Dewalt (rb) texas Arlington, 16. San Francisco (from Oakland)-Dan Hartwig (qb) Cal-Lutheran, 17. Seattle-Jim Swift (ot) Iowa, 18. Miami-Mark Goodspeed (ot) Nebraska, 19. Tampa Bay-Gerald Carter (wr) Texas A&M, 20. Washir,gton· lawrence McCullough (wr) ;mnois, 21. Chicago-Turk Schonert (qb) Stanford, 22. l)enver-Greg Bracelin (lb) California, 23. Houston-Ed Harris (rll) Bishop, 24. Philadelphia-Bob Harris (ot) Bowling Green, 25. Dallas-Jackie Flowers (wr) Florida State, 26. San Diego-Steve Whit­man (rb) Alabama, 27. Los Angeles­george Farmer (wr) Southern U., 28. Pittsburgh-Ron McCall (wr) Arkansas­Pine Bluff. 
. Tenth Round 

1. Pittsburgh (from San Francisco)­Woodrow Wilson (db) North Carolina State, 2. Detroit-Henry Henderson (db) Utah State, 3. Cincinnati·Sandrow Vitiello 
(k) Massachusetts, 4. Green Bay-Jafus White (db) Texas A& I, 5. Baltimore-larry Stewart (t) Maryland, 6. St. Louis-Rush Brown (dt) Ball State, 7. New York Giants -Joe Sanford (ot) Washington, 8. Atlanta­Walter Bellamy (db) Virginia Military, 9. Minnesota-Kenny Brown (wr) Nebraska, 
10. Buffalo-Greg Cater (p) Tenn.-Chatta 
nooga, 11. Kansas City-Rob Martinovich (more selection on page 12) 
by Michael Ortman Associate Sports Editor 

"lt'swarm and it's inszde," smiled an excited Dave Wavmei-Tuesdav after he'd learned that he would be heading for New Superdome, to begin his pro football career. The Charlotte, N.C., native will be "goin' home" to the south, a part of the country so close to his heart. 
As the 28 teams crawled through the draft's first round, six defensive backs were gobbled up, and to the suprise of many,Waymer was not among them. But that never got him down. 
"People kept telling me I'd go between the first and third rounds," he said, "so how can I be unhappy going in the second. Maybe I wasn't the first defensive back picked, but let's wait and see what happens out on the field. 
Waymer, who was in New Orleans less than two weeks ago for a physical examination, will have an excellent opportunity to show what he can do with the Saints. A fine offensive team with Archie Manning, Chuck Muncie and Wes Chandler, New Orlean's biggest weakness last 
Player: Rusty Lisch 
Position: Quarterback 
Drafted by: St. Louis 
Round/Pick: 4th/6th 
Pick Overall: 89th 
Height:6-4 
Weight: 210lbs. 
Hometown: Belleville, ID. 
Major: Architecture 
by Beth Huffman Sports Eel/tor 

While the majority of college football seniors were huddling around the phone during the National Football League draft meetings, quarterback Rusty Lisch was up to his usual tricks-playing golf at Elbel Golf Course. 
The Saint Louis Cardinals' fourth round choice 
has no qualms about the selection. 
''Of all the clubs in the NFL, St. Louis is the only one for which I have any preference,'' said a usually subdued Lisch. "It'll be sort of nice to play for the Cards because my home in Belleville (Ill.) is only about 20 minutes away." 
The 6-4, 210-pound architechture major will join last year's starter Jim Hart and backup quarterback Steve Pisarkiewicz on the Cardinal depth chart. Hart has double digit experience in the NFL, but the aging field general might not have too many good years left. 
"He (hart) is a seasoned veteran," said Lisch. ~~?uld be able to learn a lot playing behind 
Ti~arkiewicz should give Lisch, who passed for fls1 yards in 1979 and 2616 in his career at Notre Dame, very little competition as the Cards' second signal caller. Chicago Bear fans may remember Pisarkiewicz pathetic perform­ance in the regular season finale-his falling down on numerous occasions and completing mor~ passes to Bear defenders than Cardinal receivers. 
Player: Dave Waymer 
Position: Cornerback 
Drafted by: New Orleans 
Round/Pick: 2nd/13th 
Pick Overall: 41st 
Height:6-3 
Weight: 188lbs. 
Hometown: Charlotte, N.C. 
Major: Arts & Letters 
season was in the secondary were all-pro free 
safety Tommy Meyers was the only real stalwart 
with Eric Felton and veteran Ray Brown lending 
a hand at the other safety spot. 
"We'd like to try-Dave at cornerback ftrst" said Saints head coach Dick Nolan. "We're really happy to have a fine athlete like him because he can do so much. We could possibly try him as a punt returner, too." 
During his first two years Waymer caught 10 passes covering 164 yards, including a 68-yard touchdown reception from Joe Montana against Georgia Tech in 1977. As a ball carrier, Waymer covered 47 yards on 10 attempts. He also completed a 34-yard toss to Dan Kelleher against Oregon in 1976. As a punt returner, Waymer averaged eight yards per run back. 
Yet, the vast part ofWaymer's experience has been on the other side of the line of scrimmage where he has played both cornerback and safety. In four years, the 6-3 188 pound Waymer made 98 tackles, broke up 22 passes and picked off another eight, returning those interceptions 111 yards. · · 
It's a little too early to talk about money and contracts, but as Waymer was running laps with Vagas Ferguson on Tuesday, their former Irish coaches joked, "Look who finally decided to start working out." 
"Now it's for the bucks," they smiled back. 
receivers. The Chicago win earned the Bears a playoff berth over the Washington Redskins. 
"Needless to say, we are badly in need of quarterback talent," said a St. Louis official. ''Rusty Lisch is a fine football player and a great athlete. He will help us tremendously." 
It was Lisch's all-round athletic ability that allowed him to be selected ahead of heralded quarterback Paul McDonald of Southern Cal. McDonald will join Trojan teammate and Heisman Trophy winner Charles White in Cleveland. 
While McDonald may be handing off to the familiar hands of White, Lisch will encounter a capable Cardinal offense. Otis Anderson, 1979 Rookie of the Year, sparks the St. Louis backfield, while Wayne Morris helps with the ball-carrying duties. Wide receiver Mel Grey and 1980 second round draft selection Doug Marsh, a tight end from Michigan, should provide Hart, Lisch, or Pisarktewicz with sure-handed receivers. 
With his mellow attitude and philosophy, Rusty Lisch will be happy in St. Louis, or anywhere else his career takes him-as long as there is a golf course nearby,.. 
-------------~ ---­


Features 
Thursday, May 1, 1980-page 10 
Nielsen's ego trip 
With the amazingsuccessof their Live at Budokan album, Cheap Trick has faced an unusual dilemma in recent months For the first time the band is playing in large arenas before packed audiences, but the boys from Rock­ford, Illit.10is, face a crowd with great expectations, because Cheap Trick's live sound was presented so well on that album. Promises have been made, as far as fans are concerned and the band had better deliver. ' 
And wi~h a few minor exceptions Cheap Trickkept thosepromises Tues­day ntght at the ACC, much to the delight of the near-capacity crowd. . The major problem for the band is Rick Nielsen's ego. Nielsen, who writes most of Cheap Trick's material aand plays lead guitar, is a prime candidate for the Steve Martin ''I'm not trying to be the center of attention'' award for rock musicians. 
in  his  Bowery  Boys-style  ~arb,  
Nielsen  is  easily  the  most  visible  
member  of  the  band,  which  is  

obviouly the way ·he likes it. Even when the spotlight is not on him, Nielsen prances about the stage flinging guitao{' picks and generally acting crazy. It's kind of funny for awhile, but when he's still going through the same motions during the encore, the act begins to wear a little thin. People who have seen Cheap Tric~ more than once get really bored wth 1t. 
But the quality of Nielsen's songs and the obvious talents of the other members of Cheap Trick helps to overcome Nielsen's attention grab­bing tactics. Robin Zander's versatile voice is mainly responsible for Cheap Trick's sound and stands up well in 
Mark Perry 
concert, Tom Petersson displays sor:ne remarkable versatility on bass guaar, and the venerable Bun E. Carlos is as dependable as ever on the drums. 
Zander plays guitar for Cheap Trick also, but Tuesday was content most of the time to just handle the vocals. With Nielsen soloing on guitar, the volume was pumped up somt; to try and create a fuller sound, but mstead a few songs were a bit muddy. 
Still old favorites like "Surren­
der", "I Want You to Want Me" 
"Gonna Raise Hell" of Cheap Trick'~ 
latest release, Dream Police was 
. . ' 
very Impressive live. "Can't Hold On'', a new song apparently set for their new album, showed an impres­sive change of pace for the band a really laid-back blues-style song that may indicat that Cheap Trick may be trymg to expand their horizons. 
Equally impressive was their treat­ment of a couple of old favorites, the Beatles' "Da}' Tripper", where Zan­~er' s vo~al simi! arity to John Lennon IS unbelievable, and Fats Domino's "Ain't That a Shame", thestandout cut on the Budokan album. . ~heap Trick is clearly a band that Is mten_t Of! co_ntinuing their success, and all mdicauons seem to point to an even greater audience. If Nielsen can learn to control his ego and let his pals share the spotlight, Cheap Trick has a chance co really shine. 
Mark Perry is an Observer sportswn·­ter and a regular Features contn'bu­tor. 



Rick Walters plays acoustic onNightfligfJt 
Rick Walters, a guitar instrumen­~alist, will appear this Sunday night m an evening of accoustic guitar on the WSND-FM Nocturne Nightflight radio program. 
Rick has appeared at Notre Dame on several occasions, bringing his original guitar compositions to the Nazz, WSND-FM, and most recently to Washington Hall, where he ap­peared in concert with nationally known artist William Ackerman dur­ing their midwest tour last February 
With his first album currently being recorded, Rick Walters will share his music and experiences as president of Erebus Music Corpora­tion, a creative organization for ~usicia.ns and composers of acous­tiC mUSIC. 
Advance sales of his upcoming album have been encouraging, total­ing 20 percent of the 500 planned first-edition copies. 
"An Evening of Acoustic• Guitar" with Rick Walters will be hosted by Barry Stevens and Tom Krueger. Listeners are invited to call in live with questions or comments at 7342 or 7425, beginning at 12:15 Sunday night on WSND-FM 88.9. 

Musicviews 

Christopher Cross 
Christopher Cross 
(Warner) 

A native of Texas Christopher Cross h~s just recen;ly burst onto the music scene with his self-titled debut album. Despite his back­ground, Cross' sound is basic Cali­fornia pop, similar in style to artists like Kenny Loggins, Nicolette Lar­son, and the Doobie Brothers. 
So it's probably no great coince­dence that Larson and Michael Mc~onald of the Doobies happen co assist Cross on background voca!s, along with Don Henley of the Eagles, J.D. Souther, and Valerie Carter. 
With that all-star lineup and a solid group of backing vocals, Cross presents us with a pleasing album with a lot of promise and one flash of sheer brilliance. 
Cross wrote all the material for his debut, and the opening cut, "Say You'.ll Be Mine", IS a good example of hts style. This· easy-going pop song, with Larson providing backup vocals, is quite similar to Larson's own treatment of Neil Young's ''Lotta Love'' on her own debut album. 
"I Really Don't Know Anymore" (with McDonald on backup) and "Never Be the Same" continue the style set by the opening cut, but much of the album is also devoted to ballads. Cross writes mostly love songs, but "Sailing" is an inter­esting variation, capturing the feeling of gliding across the water and the emotions a moment like that can create fairly well. 
But what makes this album truly worthwhile is four and a half minute~ of magic on side rwo, a fantastic song called ''Ride Like the Wind.'' Cross' first single is a real grabber, a song that impresses you the first time you hear it. And despite the overplay that a popular s':mg can get on the radio, ''Ride Ltke the Wind" sounds just as fresh now as it did when I heard it in February. 
"Ride Like the Wind" is dedicated to Lowell George, the former member of Little Feat who died a fe~ months ago. The song deals wtth a wanted man trying to escape the law by fleeing to Mexico. 
It is the night 
Afy body's weak 
I'm on the run 
No time to sleep 
I've got to ride 
Ride like the wind 
To be free again. 
The lyrics are pretty basic, but what. n:akes this song work is the convtctton of Cross' vocals and the sweepi_ng quality of the melody. There ts an urgent tone to this song that captures that feeling of running perfectly. McDonald's echoing backup vocals and some great orchestration make ''Ride Like the Wind" one of the best singles I've heard since "Born To Run." 
The standards set by ''Ride Like ~he Wind" gives Cross some enor­mous promise for the future. One can only hope that he will deliver. 
MarkPerry 

' ............. '"''"'····'"'""·A-+ ... ,, •.• , ...... 
'I ..... . 
he Observer Thursday, May 1, 1980 -page 11 




ERA: ND wotnen 111arch in streets 
Mary.Fran Callahan 
Next Saturday a group of Notre "Many women are veterans of Leuchten is a member of, to establish Gallup Poll which claimed the major­Dame women are going to fight. organizations that have folded here in itself. According to Leuchten, ity of Americans favor ERA.
Armed with banners and good walk­the past. They don't think it will however, the administration ignores
ing shoes, they will join women from work. Others are trying to fit into the women's issues which the council ERA still needs three states for various pans of the country and Notre Dame, and are reluctant to presents. ratification, but several states which march through the streets of come out and take a stand for fear of ''I think the attitude towards have already ratified the amendment Chicago. being labelled,'' she commented. now want to rescind their actions.
women here is that this place is very Leuchten said the movement to getThe National Organization for She said she supports ERA for much a man's institution which 
Women (NOW) is sponsoring a trek purely economic reasons. "I believe a/lowed women to come in,'' she states to reverse their positions on through Chicago's loop in an effort to it ·is a dollar and cents issue,'' commented. Due to standard male/ ERA is no threat. rally support for the Equal Rights Leuchten said and added, "It's a 
female stereotypes, Leuchten per­"When states tried to do that in the Amendment. Bureau of Labor statistic that a ceives Notre Dame as ''a place where past, the courts did not acknowledgeThough the march was initially woman earns only 59 cents for every there is no harmony between the it,'' she commented. 
designed to obtain support for the Illinois ratificaton of the amendment, the NOW effo.t:t has gained mention in the national media. The number of supporters (or opponents for that matter) who will appear at the march cannot be estimated. Yet, NOW's heavy backing of marches in the past has always attracted crowds and journalists. 
The Notre Dame women who plan to participate are members of the Notre Dame Women's Organization-­a group founded this year by Senior Renee Leuchten. Despite minimal university support, the group has sponsored workshops, lectures, panel discussions, rap sessions and women's activities. 
Leuchten said as many as 60 women have participated in the group's programs, but declined to put an actual number on the organi­zation's membership. She described the membership as ''loose and floating,'' and proceeded to explain why the organization is not stronger. 
dollar a man earns.'' · 
She further explained that the ''laws on the books'' are steeped in loopholes and open the door for discrimination and labelled them "piecemeal legislation." 
Feminists view ERA as the legisla­tive step which would force the government to strictly enforce exist­ing laws involving discrimination, asserted Leuchten. She conceded that ERA would not change tradition­al male attitudes but did say, "If the co~rt cases were strenghtened, the attitudes would slowly follow.'' 
Speaking from the perspective of being female and at Notre Dame, Leuchten said she did not think the University has been cooperative with her gr<;mp's efforts. The University, accordmg to Leuchten, refused to grant the NDWO a room to base their office in. 
She voiced her belief that the University has a "self-congratula­tory" attitude, since they allowed the Women's Advisorv Council, which sexes. '' 
"I don't believe men really know women or we men know men here. There is no real communication; we have to keep too much distance from each other,'' she said. She added that a lack of communication breeds frustration and anger. 
Citing examples of Eastern Catholic universities which have gone coeducational in the last ten years, Leuchten said she thinks Notre Dame is progressing too slowly in its move to coeducation. She said schools which have gone coed after Notre Dame are now half male and half female. According to Leuchten, the 50I 50 ratio is optimum and could alleviate much of the frustration that stems from the present ratio. 
Opponents of the twenty four word amendment contend that the amendment will destroy the family and advocate everything from abor­tion to unisex restrooms. ''There is so much ignorance about the issues," Leuchten said and cited a recent 
Of the major presidential conten­ders, Ronald Reagan is the only candidate who has openly opposed ERA. Yet, Leuchten said though President Carter suprons ERA, she does not believe that he has exerted enough political pressure on congre­ssional members to get the amend­ment ratified. 
ERA only has until June of 1981, 
and what if it shoulcf die? ''Any 
progress made towards equality will 
go backwards,'' Leuchten said and 
added after a slight pause, ''at that 
point the amendment would be 
symbolic of social attitudes.'' 
Anyone interested in participating 
in the May 10 Chicago march should 
contact the South Bend Chapter of 
the YWCA. For $6. 50, they will 
provide round trip transportati_on. 
Mary Fran Cal/a,~an is a freshman English major from Park Ridge, Illinois, and a senior staff reporter for The Observer. 
Horsing around in Michiana 

Patty Sheehan 
Now that spring has arrived, many 

horse lovers, and even those who 
prefer to regard the large creatures 
from outside of the fence, will be 
taking advantage of the fair weather 
to trek up to the nearest riding 
stables. If you're longing to ride a 
horse for the first rime, or to take a 
long trip up the beach of Lake 
Michigan, or to brush up on your 
riding skills, the riding facilities in 
Michiana are ready to satisfy your 
spring fancy. 
Michiana Riding Stables, one of 

the most popular stables of Saint 
Mary's and Notre Dame students, 
offers a 41/z mile trail ride for 
beginning and intermediate riders. 
The horses are gentle and well­
trained and you can ride alone or 
with a guide. 
One of the highlights of the stables is the ever-popular 18-mile beach ride along the Lake Michigan shore. The horses are trailored to Lake Michigan during the day and the ride lasts until the evening. The guides then build a bonfire on the beach and roast hotdogs and marsh­mallows which they supply for the whole group. It's an excellent way to spend a relaxing evening at a relatively low cost. Another exciting activity is the hay ride for large groups of people in wagons pulled by draft horses. 
Riding courses in English style are also offered with lessons ranging from beginning to advanced levels. 
Michiana Riding Stables is just off 1-94 in Michigan City, about a 45-minute drive. It is open every day from 10 a.m. to ...6--p.m. and lessons are given on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, · ;days, and Satur­days. 
Four Flags Stables also offers English lessons during the spring season. The facility includes indoor and outdoor arenas, and cross­country and stadium jump courses set on 25 acres of land. Lessons are geared for any level riders althoug the most experienced levels arc preferred. Sessions are otfered on Saturdays and Sundays from 10 a.m. until dusk. The stables are located on Red Bud Trail, six miles north ot Buchanan, about a 20-minute drive. 
Western style riding abounds in the Michiana area and a nearby stable is equipped for those who prefer the saddle with the horn. Keith Heil' s Training Stables has any level of training for every level of riding ability. An indoor riding arena and an outdoor jump course are part of the facilities set on five acres of land. Group lessons are scheduled on Saturdays 11:30 a.m.­3:00p.m. and private lessons can be scheduled with the instructor. The stables are just off U.S. 31 on Ironwood Road, about a 15-minute drive. 
For those of you intimidated by the thought of climbing onto a horse for the first time, here are a few helpful hints to help you feel like a pro before you even walk into a barn: 
··When in doubt about how much riding experience you've had, say "beginner." Anything besides a gentle horse at a public riding stables is for expenenced riders only. 
··Always go with a friend (or six). The more the merrier, but also the less chance you'll have getting lost in the woods with your galavanting steed. 
--Don't get too rowdy-around horses. They may look dead quiet, but a loud noise or an unexpected slap on the rump might send a newly-shod hoof into the side of your head. Always make sure the horse knows you're there before making any fast moves (like vaulting into the saddle). 
··The horse wants to be friends as much as you do. A horse appreci­ates the sound of your voice before you even pat his head. While riding along, if you get tired of talking to your friends, talk to the horse. You'll have a much pleasanter ride 
and a much nicer horse if you do. 
--Wear long pants and hard shoes. 
Sweating in ninety-degree weather is not half as painful as saddle sores rubbed into the inside of your legs after wearing shorts, or after wear­ing sandles, bruised toes from heavy horses with clumsy feet. Hard hats are necessary for English riders, ~xpe~ially if you're going to do some Jumpmg. 
--Relax and enjoy the ride. lf you're nervous, the horse will be nervous. The horses at public riding places have been through every kind of riding encounter, so if you show them you're not afraid and are willing to have a nice time, relief will spread across their faces, and they'll let out a deep sigh. Now, hop on (not too quickly), and enjoy your spring fling. 
(Information regarding any of the riding facilities mentioned above can be obtained by contacting Patty Sheehan at 4162 -SMC.) 
Patty Sheehan, an avid nding enthu­siast, is a regular Features contn·­butor. 


-

The Observer -SportsBoard Thursday,May 1, 1980-page 12 
Stone (g) North Carolina State, 21. Tampa
State, 24. Houston-Eddie Preston (wr) Western Kentucky, 25. Philadelphia-Tho­
Eleventh Round 

Bay-Gene Coleman (db) Miami, Fla., 22. 
Wom.ento

Washington-Marlene Emmett (db) North
mas Brown (de) Baylor, 26. San Diego­
1. iJetroit-Wayne Smith (db) Purdue, 2.
Football 

Alabama, 23. Houston-Wylie Pitts (wr)
John Singleton (de) Texas-EI Paso, 27.
Miami (from San Francisco)-Phil Driscoll, 
Temple, 24. Philadelphia-Howard Fields·
los Angeles·Terry Greer (wr) Alabama
.(de), Mankato State, 3. Cincinnati-Alton 
endseason

(db) Baylor, 25. Dallas-Norm Wells
State.
, Alexis (wr) Tulane, 4. Baltimore-Eddie
[continued from page 9] 

(de-dt) Northwestern, 26. San Diego-Har­
: Whitley (te) Kansas State, 5. St. Louis­
by Kelly Sullivan 

ry Price (wr) McNeese State, 27. los
Twelfth Round

[dt) Notre Dame, 12. New York Jets-Guy , Delrick Brown (db) Houston, 6. Green 
Women's Sports Editor 

Angeles· Kevin Scanlan (qb) Arkansas,
Bay-Rickey Skiles (db) Houston, 6. Atlan­
Bingham (c) Montana, 13. New Orleans­

28. Pittsburgh-Tyrone McGriff (g) Florida
1. Pittsburgh-Charles Vaclavik (db),
ta-Mike Babby (db) Oklahoma, 8. New
Tanya Webb (de) Michigan State, 14. 

The Notre Dame women's
A&M.

Texas, 2. Detroit-Ray Williams (kr)
York Gianta-Steve Burnish (de) South
Cleveland-Kevin Fidel (c) San Diego 

track club will complete one of
Washington State, 3. Cincinnati-Mike Florida State, 16. Seattle-Ron Essink (ot) 
Carolina, 9. Buffalo-Joe Gordon (dt)
State, 15. Oakland-Walter Carter (dt) 

Wright (qb) Vanderbilt, 4. St. Louis-Ty­
the most impressive seasons in
Grambling, 10. Kansas City-Dale Mark· 
rone Gray (wr) Washington State, 5.
ham (dt) North Dakota, 11. Minnesota­
Grand Valley State, 17. New England-0 

its brief history Friday when it
Green Bay-James Stewart (db) Memphis 
Transactions

Sam Harrell (rb) East Carolina, 12. New
Tom Daniel (ot) Georgia Tech, 18. Tampa 

hosts an outdoor invitational at
State, 6. Baltimore-Randy Bielski (k)
Orleans-George Woodard (rb) Texas
Bay-Andy Hawkins (lb) Texas A&l, 19. 
4 p.m. 

Houston State, 7. New York Giants-Mike
A& M, 13. New York Jets-James Zachary
Washington-Lewis Walker (rb) Utah, 20. 
BASKETBALL

lansford (k) Washington, 8. Atlanta­
The Irish ran an excellent
(lb) Texas A&M, 14. Oakland-Mike
Chicago-Willie Stephens (db) Texas Tech,· 

CLEVELAND CAVALIERS-Signed Stan
Quinn Jones (rb) Tulsa, •9. Kansas
Massey (Ib) Arkansas, 15. Seattle·Tali
21. Denver.Virgil Seay (wr) Troy State, 

indoor season which included
Albeck, Head Coach, to a three-year
City-Mike Brewington (lb) East Carolina,
Ena (pr) Washington State, 16. New
22. Miami-Doug lance (c) Miami, Ohio, 
contract. 

an urset victory over Indiana
10. Minnesota-Thomas Lane (db) Florida
England·M ike Huback (p) Kansas, 17.
23. Miami (from Philadelphia)-Ben Long 

MILWAUK~E BUCKS-Dave Meyers, 
Smal State Champion Man­
A&M, 14. Seattle-Presnell Gilbert (db)
Cleveland-Roland Sales (rb) Arkansas,
(lb) South Dakota, 24. Dallas-Matthew 
Forward, ret1red

U.S. International, 15. New England-Jim 
chester College. The Irish ran a
18. Washington-Mike Matocha (de) Texas
Teague (de) Prarie View, 25. Seattle 
BASEBALL

Jordan (qb) Florida State, 16. Cleveland­
Arlington, 19. Chicago-Chris Judge (db)
(from Houston)-Billy Reaves (wr) Morris 

light outdoor schedule this
NEW YORK YANKEES-Sold Jim Kaat,
Marcus Jackson (dt) Purdue, 17. Oak­
Texas Christian, 20. Denver-Phil Farris
Brown, 26. Tampa Bay (from San 

spring, competing in only two
pitcher, to the St. louis Cardinals

land-Calvin Muhammed (wr) Texas
(wr) North Carolina, 21. Philadelphia-lee
Oiego)-Brett Davis (rb) Nevada-Las 
FOOTBALL 

invitationals in April. At the
Southern, 18. Chicago-Robert Fisher (te)
Jukes (wr) North carolina State, 22.
Vegas, 27. Los Angeles-Bob Gruber (ot) 

PITTSBURGH STEELERS-Traded Willie
Southern Methodist, 19. Baltimore-Mar­
Manchester Relays, Notre
Tampa Bay-Terry Jones (de) Central
Pittsburgh, 28. Pittsburgh-Ken Fritz (g) 

Fry, defensive end, to San Francisco in
vin Sims (rb) Clemson, 20. Miami-Chuck
State. 23. Dallas-Gary Padjen (lb) Arizona
Ohio State. 

Dame coach Joe Costic tood a
exchange for the 49ers' 12th round draft choice in Wednesday's draft. squad of just ten against sever­al schools running full teams. Despite the fact that they ran only half the scheduled events, 
Molarity byMichael Molinelli 
the Irish accumulated 113 

Four school records were 
broken by the Irish this season. 
ACROSS 28 Solution: 51 Pay atten-16 No visi­
) unior Kathy Merra, named the 
1 Rude person abbr. tion to bility for 
squad's most valuable runner,
5 Make up 29 Vow 52 Path of flying
The Daily Cross-word 
set a new pace for the two mile
one's mind 30 Locate dangerous 21 Magnetic 
at 11:45. Indoors, Merra ran the
11 Undying precisely contact directions 14 Sun rooms 32 Use force 55 Small woody 22 Palm for 
three-mile race in 18:13 and the 
15 Navigation 34 Drowsiness plant thatching 
5000 meters in 18:25. Freshman instrument 36 Build 56 Small dog 25 Final 
Kathy Jones also scratched her 
17 Like a 40 Decimal 57 Make down-27 Grievously 
name in the record books in
clear sky unit cast 30 Artist's 
long jump competition with an
18 Czech river 41 Therapeutic 58 College likeness 19 Meaning bath military 31 Father of 
indoor best of 16' -7 3/4". 20 Yale 42 Merry and group Zaccur 
Although delighted with 
student carefree 33 Sudden 
1hese accomplishments, Costic 
21 Idea 43 Flagmaker DOWN attack 
prefers to measure his team's 
23 Row of 45 Gloomy 1 Charm 34 Beethoven 
Improvement with personal rec­
seats 47 Rhode 2 Caen's girl (over­
ords. "This team has worked
24 Continue Island Red river ture) riding 48 Charged 3 Unnamed 35 Stored 
especially hard-they've cer­26 Pitcher atom person fodder 
tainly reached all my expecta­Tiant 50 Opera air 4 Give lim-37 Of the wild 
tions. I think I'll see a lot of 
ited amounts blue yonder 
personal bests on Friday.''

5 Cock-a-38 Smiling
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

Notre Dame had hoped to
doodle-word 

make its bid for the small state
.VACANT DRIERS. 6 Shade trees 39 Succulent 
.championship next week, but a
7 Founder of and tasty old French 40 Religious 
S E N A T 0 R 0 U T R U N S 

university regulation prohibits
E N T • !l_ .k-,[ E F U l 
ATE MAO GEM.FFA 
dynasty pamphlets 

club sports from post-season
s u NIG R 'U..tLEel I F T 

8 Modern 42 Tonic 
action during final exams.
0 R NIO T TAR P EIA L E 
Persian 44 Repaired 

''We would have qualified
N E A T E A B EM 0 lAIN E D 
9 Disagree shoes
R U B B L E S 

almost the entire team,'' com­
10 Relievers 46 Substandard 
C 0 R N~~ l T I NIG E S 
mented a disappointed coach.
11 Glowing negative
A A I E S SEC T EIR S E 
coals 49 Green color 

''W'e definitely would have had
R E N T B E S 0 M IIA T T 

12 Candle wax 51 Deeply
EGG.SOL HOD VAT 

enough people to be in the 
13 Column of offended
S A L T ~'N E E~T M I T E 
running for the title.''

S N E E Z E S R E M 0 T E R names 53 Japanese 
In spite of this setback,
14 Cheap and coin
.&.Ll. E R S E S S A Y S • 
Costic sees the club making
All Rights Reserved 5/1/80 sleazy 54 Gold: Sp. 
great progress in the near future, and hopes to see it 



attain varsity status some day. "I think we've · shown that there's an interest for track on campus. We're starting to out­

PICKERING 
class the other non-varsity
Olre WinJjammer 
clubs and we're ready for
Active Sportswear 
something more.''

HAIR STYLING FOR DISCRIMINATING MEN & WOMEN 
A terrific gift ideafor Mother's 
1637 Lincoln Way West ·-South Bend, Indiana 46628 

and Father's Day. 
232-6622 
* 
Beautiful Cardigan Sweaters 

* 
1OO'o "Downy" V-NECK Sweaters





$}OO.OFF 

* 
1OO'o Lisle Cotton Golf Shirts 

* 
Terrycloth Pullovers


---on any style 

* ManystylesToChooseFrom
r nten or wotnen 
* A Full Range OfColors And Sizes . 
* All Are B~autifully Embroidered These items along with many more can be
---ND/SMC ID 
required 

seen daily, Monday through F_riday, from 12pm to Spm at the ICE RINK PRO SHOP.
CALLTODAY 

Enterthe A.C.C.at GATE3· 
ND BENDIX

WI-I THEATRE
.SMC CENTURY 
THEATRE CENTER UNDER MILK WOOD 

284-9111 he gentle.. humorou 
story ofa day in·the. life of a Welsh Village May 1,2, 3 
$4.00 ($3.00 8pm Stu./ Fac./ Staff) 
-
.--. . 
. 
,,_ . ._... ·~-­

·.... -.. ~ ... --. .....-~~ .. -~--_,,_,.... 
,-, .. "'"'""' e•-. •"' 0 "' ,.. •·••• ••• t•O ••• ____ .._ "' 0 • ~ 
. . . • ' 
-­
' 
='. 

The Observer -Sports Thursday,May 1, 1980-page 13 
Sports Briefs. _ ____, 
Season ticketsales tobegin 
As stated in a recently released directive from the athletic department, Notre DameI Saint Mary's students will be required to purchase football tickets starting next season. The process for purchasing student tickets will be as follows: 
On May 5, 1980, a package of ticket applications will be mailed to each student's home address. Included in the package will be a four-game season application for tickets to the Purdue, Michigan, Miami (Fla.) and Air Force:" football games. Cost of the package will be $24. Also included will be a separate application for the Army game which will be played the first day of fall break. The cost of that single-game ticket will be $6. 
Also included will be an application for season basketball and hockey tickets. The basketball application will cover the home games played while school is in session and the prices will be $32 for a lower arena seat and $24 for a bleacher ticket. The hockey season ticket application will include the 15 games played while school is in session. Cost of the ticket will be $30. 
The deadline for football ·applications is set for ] une 20 while basketball and hockey applications must be returned 
. by August 15. Separate checks for each application are 
required. Seat assignments will, as in the past, be 
distributed in the fall1 
Blue-Goldgame on Saturday 
The annual Blue-Gold intrasquad football game ~inding up Spring practice will be held in Notre Dame Stadmm on Saturday, May 3 at 2:00/.m. Notre Dame and St. Mary's students will be admitte upon l?resentation of ID cards at gate fifteen only. G~neral admts~ion tickets fo~ the/ublic are available at the ttcket sales wmdow, Athleuc an Con­vocation Center, priced at $2.50 for adults, $1.00 for chil~ren 17 and under. Tickets will also be available at the stadtum the day of the game, priced at $3.50 for adults and $~.50 for children. Dates, spouses, parents, etc. must have uckets. No seats will be reserved. The game is sponsored annually by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. ] oseph Valley ~nd supports the club's scholarship fund which currently sustatns sixteen students of this area at the university. 
VVornen'ssoccershovvshope 
This year's An Tostal Soccer Tournament was an experiment organized to show a dubious interhall office women's interest in soccer on the Notre Dame campus does exist. Organizers of the tournament, Mary Melley and Steve Milan, estimated between 160-180 women fielded the seven Notre Dame and the five St. Mary's teams. Judging by the number participating, the pair deemed the tournament successful. ''The a;nazing dedication of the players and coaches shows that a women's soccer program can work at this school," said Milan. "The interest and talent is here, now all we need is the interhall office or some individuals to continue the program,'' said Melley. Last Saturday, Breen Phillips defeated Holy Cross to become the chamls of what is hopefully the first annual women's An Tosta soccer tournament. 
VVaterpoloclubsets meeting 
The Notre Dame Water Polo Club will hold a meeting Sunday May 4 at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. All members must attend and new members are welcome. Fall practises and games will be discussed. Attendance is recommended if you desire to play in the fall. For more information call Mike at 8879 or Cam at 3434. 
...· 
TIPPECANOE PLACE RESTAURANT IS NOW HIRING RESTAURANT PERSONNEL 
full or part time;day a_nd night shifts high wages; excellent benefits training:classroom and on the job cordial atmosphere 
FOODWAlTERS AND WAITRESSES BUSBOYSIBUSGIRLS COCKTAIL WAITRESSES DISHWASHERS BROILERCOOKS HOSTESSES BARTENDERS PREP COOKS MAINTENANCE MEN 
APPLY IN PERSON BETWEEN II :00 am S 6:00 pm 
MONDAY THRU S}.TURDAY
AT EOE-M/F 
TIPPECANOE PLACE 620 W. Washin ton Ave South Bend, Ind. 
Golfteam moves closer to bidoffer 
b_y Bzll McCormick Sports Wn'ter 
The Notre Dame golf team moved two steps closer to an NCAA bid with a pair of impressive performances this past week. · 
Four teams will be selected from Notre Dame's district (District 4) to compete in the national tournament at Ohio Sate on Mav 28-31. And with third place hnishes at both the Purdue Invitational last Satur­day and the Mid-American 
Invitational on Monday, the Irish are in strong contention for one of the four coveted bids. 
There were 16 teams a·t Purdue and 15 at the Mid-Ame­rican, and Notre Dame compil­ed an overall record of 25-4-4 for the tvvo events. Only Indiana 
(7 31) and Ball St. (7 35) finished 
. ahead of the Irish (752) at Purdue, while Ohio University 
(759) and Miami of Ohio (761) squeaked by Notre Dame at the Mid-American. 
As he has done all season, John Lundgren led the scoring for the Irish at both tourna· ments. Lundgren's 145 (72-73) at Purdue earned him third place in the individual stand­mgs. Notre Dame's other scores were as follows: Tom McCarthy 148 ( 76-72), Tim Sacheck 152 (74-78), Bill McGu­inness 152 (73-79), Dave Knee 155 (79-76), and Stoney Fed­mann 172 (84-88). 
Lundgren also took third in the overall standings at the Mid­American with a score of 148 (77-71). Grab bing sixth place among all competitors was Notre Dame's Knee with 149 (7 3·76). Roundingout the indiv­idual scoring for the Irish on Monday were McCarthy at 154 (78-76), McGuinness at 156 (80-76), Ferlmann at 157 (79-78, and Sacheck at 163 (79-84). 
In both tournaments, Notre Dame demonstrated the kind of consistent play which has been characteristic of the team all spring. Yet at the same time, the Irish golfers couldn't man­age to put together the really super round which has eluded them this entire season. 
''In every tournament so far, some team has come up with a stud round,'' said Irish coach Noel O'Sullivan. "We have yet to thrown one, and it's a little frustrating because I know we're capable of it." 
O'Sulhvan, though, is cer­tainly not disappointed with his team's performance thus far. ''At the beginning of the season I said that we were trying for consistently high finishes in every event," O'Sullivan recal­led. "And it is obvious that we have succeeded in this goal up to this point.'' 
Constdering the possibility of an invitation to the national tournament, O'Sullivan sound­ed fairly optimistic. And he has good reason to be so. ~irst, th.e Irish have proven tn thetr consistently fine play that rhey are one of the best teams in their district. Also, for the first time ever, O'Sullivan is a member of the five-man selec· tion committee that will decide which four teams will receive bids. And though O'Sullivan 
~ . . 
~ DENNIS 'SHARK' COTTER 
~ GRAHAM CRAWFORD ~ TOM 'JUDAS' MO~RIS 
~ 
~ JOHN 'J.R.' REUST 
iC JOE 'JOSE' BARROWS 
~ RICH 'DICKIE' HILLSMAN 
'"" 
~ 
simply smiles when this fact is mentioned, it's obvious that it will be an advantage for Notre Dame come selection time. 
With one tournament left for the Irish, the Spartan Invita· tiona! in East Lansing this weekend, O'Sullivan is being careful not to get too optimistic. "Ifwe don't come through with a real strong finish at the Spartan, it's somewhat doubt­ful that we'll gain a bid to the NCAA's," he stressed. "But I've got a lot of confidence in the team, and I'm hoping for the best.'' 
OBSERVER NEEDS~ VAN DRIVERSFOR 1980-81 YEAR. ALL 
DAYS AVAILABLE · THISISAPAID POSITION. Contact Titnat 8661 or 1387 

mERE ARE PEOPLE ALL OVER THE 
WORW LIKE HONDURAS, Jf\I\IA.ICA, 
CHAD, TUNISIA, FIJI, BRAZIL, WESTERN SAMG\.. lliEIR HOPES ARE CCJ.f.10N, NEEDS BASIC: FOOD AND WATER, 1-EALTI-I AND HOUSING, JOBS, •••AND YOU •••TO HELP AS A PEACE CORPS VOLUNTEER. 
Call Chicago Recr. Office 

collect 312-353-4990 
Monday -Friday 
8: 30 -5:00 
****************************** 
~ 
~ CONGRATULATIONS ~ DILLON I BASEBALL TEAM 
~ 
~ ********************************* 
FRANK OELERICH DAN GLEASON 
CHRIS KINNARE 
BILL McKENNA 
MARK MURPHY 
RON ZAMBER 
MIKE RUSH 
~ 1980 CAMPUS CHAMPS 
* 
~ 
: 
~ 
* ~ 
' * 
~ 
. *
* 
! 
Jlllf 
lt· 
~ ~ 


\***************************** 
----------~~---~ 
.._, 

The Observer -Sports Thursday, May 1, 1980 -page 14 
,continued from page 16] one-bur so is the CCHA." It is also geographically 
compact-the key to the pres~nt controversy over restructunng
... Hockey 

rhe WCHA. Look at the facts. Notre Dame, Michigan, Michigan State and Michigan Tech want to enter a geograph­ically more feasible league. 
r------------F ----~
-IE II-I 
I 

RIVER CITY RECORDS I
I northern Indiana's latgest record & tape I I selection and conceit ticket headquattets I 
I I
I Jl.QQ Gny reguiGr Glbum or tGpe I1 purchase with this coupon. 1 1 0 f f limit on• ~, ~taon expl,.. ma_y 30, Jq&O I 
I 120,000albuma & tapealn atock I1· •Huge cut-outand apeclallmpott selection I~n lOto 10,11 •ND-smc checka accepted up to J20.00 7®va 1 ov•r putchewt amount Of*' lOto 10 277-4242 
1
IS9979 y.s. 3JNaQh !. 3m!lu OO!!h of cqmput • n.xt to Al'aau~h_:tJ 

SENIORS 
Join VISTA and share your Liberal Arts experience with America's urban & rural poor. Your degree in EDUCATION, SOCIAL SCIENCE, HEALTH, BUSINESS ADMIN. PHYS. ED., or RECREATION can help solve social, human and environ­mental problems of low-income communities. Sign up at Placement Office for a talk with former VISTA volunteer on campus: 
all Chicago Recr. Off. ollect 312-353~4990 · 8:30 to 5:00 
They have got one right-next door which IS willing to accept them. Either way, they won't lose out on their proposal. 
The executive committees of the WCHA and the CCHA will meet on May 22 to talk things over, but alot of it will be old hat. The CCHA has proposed the idea already more than once, and it has been rebuffed. 
As was the case before, the WCHA is holding the cards over this whole issue. Unless it acts accordingly, it could lose four of those cards quickly. That could spell the beginning of the end for one of the nation's finest athletic conferences. 
... Kelly 

[continued from page 16] 
can win, and that confidence has been a big factor in their 
success. The team would not have the confiden<.:e it does if it weren't for Coach Kelly." 
As for the prospect of coaching at Notre Dame, the three-year letterman catcher and first baseman from Rhode Island is enthusiastic. 
"I feel fortunate to take over such a fine program-it is a really positive factor. I'm happy to have the opportunity to coach at Notre Dame." ''I recommended Larry for the job, and I am really happy he was chosen," said Kelly. "It should make the transitton that much smoother. I'll give the team as much support as I can, and be glad to help whenever I have the time or chance.'' 

Derby--anybody 's race 
LOUISVILLE, Ky.(AP) -I'm Grass Stakes April 24. That not an oddsmaker and I don't boosted his career record to 10 bet on races," said trainer wins, two seconds, and two Herb Stevens when asked his thirds in 15 starts. opinion about who would be 
Rockhill Native worked five­favored to win a Kentucky 
eighths ~f a mile with regul~r
Derby which trainer Tommy jockey John Oldham up InKelly called "wide open. I 1:04.4 Wednesday. "All Ithink anybody has·a shot.'' 
wanted him to do was feel the 
Stevens' Rockhill Native and race track and open him up," Kelly's Plugged Nickle are said Stevens, who was uncon­considered the top two conten­cerned that the filly, Genuine ders for Saturday's 106th Ken­Risk, with regular rider Jacinto tucky, which is expected to a Vasquez aboard, worked two field of 10 colts, two geldings seconds faster. "They train and a filly. their horse and I'll tram 
mine," said Stevens. 

Rockhill Native, one of the geldings, could become the Plugged Nickle, owned by first to win a Derby since Clyde John Schiff, will go into the llf4 VanDusen in 1929. mile, $200,000-added derby 
with a three race winning"I wouldn't want to change a streak and a question mark.
hair on him," said Stevens, "This is a good little horse,"wh9 lives in Versailles about 80 said Kelly. "I've been terriblymiles. away but who has not lucky with this horse from thebeen to a Derby since 1948 beginning.''
when he watched the great From the beginning, Plugged Citation win. 
Nickle, who galloped an easy"They wouldn't give me a mile Wednesday, has wonplace to sit down so I couldn't seven of 11 races, with threecome," Stevens, a man who seconds.
doesn't waste words, said on a foggy Wednesday morning at Genuine Risk will become the Churchill Downs. first filly entered in the Derby 
Now Stevens is at the Derby since Silver Spoon finished with a chestnut son Our fifth in 1959. The only filly to Native, who won the 1979 win the Derby was Regret in 2-year-old championship and 1915. who appears to be on top of his 
Others expected to be enteredform. 
Thursday were J aklin Klug­After a disappointing winter man, Bold 'n Rulling, Superin Florida where he lost two of 
Moment, Degenerate Jon,four starts-Stevens blames 
Gold Stage, Rumbo, Withhold­the · condition of the Hialeah ing, Tonka W akham, Hazardtrack-Rockhill Native came Duke and Execution's Reason. 
home to Kentucky for two Execution's reason is the other races at Keeneland. There, gelding.
Harry A. Oak's gelding scored a front-running victory in the 1 Each starter will carry 126 1-16 mile Calumet Purse and pounds except Genuine Risk, then led most of the way in who will get a five-pound sex 
wtnnmg the 1 1-8 mile Blue allowance. Norman. 
our manager has used him,'' Peterson said at a press confer­ence. ''He has asked me to try and trade him, which I will try to do. Until I can trade him, he will not pitch for the Pirates any further.'' 
Blyleven has an 0-2 record in five starts this season. On Tuesday night, he lost a 4-1 lead against the Montreal Expos and wound up with no decision as Pittsburgh went on to win 5-4 in 10 inmngs. 
After Montreal tied the score 
i.1 the top of the sixth, Blyleven was replaced by a pinch hitter in the bottom of the inning. Blyleven, who also raised objections at being lifted last season, met behind closed doors with Tanner after the game. 
"He wanted to talk to me. His spirits are down," Tanner said after the meeting. ''I said, 'Just relax and enjoy_ yourself, and you'll reel off four or five in a row.' " 
But Blyleven, who was 12-5 last season in 37 starts, appar­ently decided he could tolerate no more. 
"He has nothing personal against Chuck at all. He told me he thinks Chuck's a great guy, an outstanding manager and motivator. It is just that he is so unhappy and frus­trated with the way he has been used it's just tearing h:m up inside. 
"It has affected his everyday life and his effectiveness as a pitcher,so he doesn't want to pitch for the Pittsburgh Pirates any further.'' 
Peterson said he understood 
Blyleven would return to his 
home in California. He said 
the pitcher had instructed the 
Pirates not tc release his 
telephone number to the news 
media. 

"He wanted me to express his 
feelings,'' said Peterson, 
adding that, pendmg a possible 
trade, he would try to place 
Blyleven on the disqualified 
list. He'll likely be replaced by 
pitcher Don Robinson, who is 
recovering from a shoulder 
problem. 

Blyleven and utility man John Milner were acquired by Pitts­burgh in a 1977 trade with the Texas Rangers for outfielder AI Oliver and infielder Nelson 
PITISBURGH (AP)-Winless pitcher Bert Blyleven, dis­pleased with the way Manager Chuck Tanner has used him, is quitting the Pittsburgh Pirates, team vice president Pete Peter­son said Wednesday. 
"Bert has bt>en unhappy pitching for the Pirates the way 

The Observer -SportsBoard Thursday,May 1, 1980-page 15 
lnterhall 
SOCCER CHAMPIONSHIP Flanner vs. Dillon, 4:15, Stepan Field 
Baseball Championships Dillon 8, Zahm 4 





Classifieds 
Lost: copper-like wide band ring. Sentimental value only. Between 
North Dining Hall and Howard. Barry 2106 512 Flanner. 
Notices 
Nd-SMC Club of St. louis-Baggage Lost: gold chain link bracelet at Irish

Truck info in this week's newsletter. 

Wake. Sentimental value. Reward.
Picnic this Saturday 11-5. Call 7374 Call 4122 (SMC) 

----------------
for more information. Lost: after raft race on Sat.: one pair
N.J. Club year-end bus Is now taking 

of blue & white Nike running shoes onreservations. Call Dave at 1148, Chris 
beach. 2-grey, zipper sweat shirt with 
at 1178 or Kevin at 1166 to reserve hood. Please call Bart 8440/8458.

your seat. last day for reservations is Fri., May 2. 

Lost: gold-diamond bracelet. High
----------------sentimental value. Reward. Call 6955.
Will do typing. Neat, accurate. Call 287-5162. Thank you. 

Lost: sterling silver bracelet in Nieuw­
----------------land Science Hall. If found call
Guid_e yourself in London, Hawaii, 

234-722. 
Mex1~o City! I Extensive itinerary descnbes what, when, how to see like Found: one basketball. Call to identifya native. Only $5 each plus 80 cents Mark 1655.

handling. Travelsearch, Department 06, P.O. Box 335, Hermosa Beach California 90254. ' 

For Rent 
Typing Plus. Term papers, theses, dissertations. Light editing, ghost Male students to share 4-bedroom writing. Literary search, bibliograph­house near NO. Immediate occup­ies, genealogies. Job resume service. ancy. Newly remodeled, new carpetSliding rate scale based on lead time. and partially furnished. Call 289-7269 Special discounts on full contracts for after 7 p.m. [$75 mo. for summer theses and dissertations. aardvark months. automatic solutions/p.o. box 1204 46624/phone (219) 289·6753. House $225 mo. all included. N. shore 
----------------garage, on bus. 233-1329. Typing done in my home, Notre Dame Area. 277-3085. Work for me. live for free this summer. 277-3604 or 288-0955. 
Furnished houses or rooms for rent
Lost&Found 
this summer, close to campus, very reasonable. 277-3604 or 288-0955. 
Found: One men's NO ring with 

Furnished four bedroom house,initials DCL 81. Call 6831 to claim. 
couple blocks from campus, for next 
school year 277-3604 or 288-0955. Lost: suitcas-in between the baseball field and tennis courts. Lost on Off-Campus housing-6 bedrooms 
Saturday after the baseball game. (with locks) rented separately. Free Any info call Keith 1745. laundry and kitchen. Superior rated. 
Available for summer and fall. Lost: a three-strand silver necklace 291·1405. with turquoise beads. Please call Tina 
at 277-0586 if found-reward. Ugly Duckling Rent-a-Car from $7.95 
a day and 7 cents a mile. 255-2323. Lost: watch, woman's silver digital Casio with blue face, Sat. 4/19 Off-campus housing-6 bedrooms, etc. 
reward. Call Anne F. 277-1597 after 

291-1405. 10 p.m. 
Available now and for next fall-attrac­Lost: gold serpantine-line bracelet, tive 3 bedroom, 2 bath home-3 or 4 
Tues. 4/22. Reward. Call Anne F. people-near Notre Dame. Call Harlan 277-1587 after 10 p.m. Humbarger or Kathleen Lathrop­
289-68$3-9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Taken: navy and powder blue down coat from SMC Beer Garden on 4/24. Staying for the summer? Renters 
Please call Mark at 283-8573. desired for 3-5 bedroom house, very 
close to campus. If interested, call Found in the N.D. Post Office, a pair Mark (8760), Don (8775), or Mr. of contact lenses in a white case. Stop Busby (287-7617). in and ask for Brother Thomas. 
House or Individual rooms for sum­Found: man's watch near dorm const­mer rent. 4 rooms. close to campus. ruction sight. Call Kevin 8953. Call 289-171 B. 
----------------
ROOMMATE NEEDED-to share
Dear Kathleen, excellent two bedroom apartment forYour lost Notre Dame dinner ring summer and/or fall. 233-6068.

has been returned to the Lost and Found in the Ad. Bldg. ---------------­
SUMMER STORAGE Kist: silver ring with blue stone Fri. SPACE AVAILABLE in Grace Hall. If found call Michelle at Pick up & Delivery 
Call HAM EL' S233-62002117. Reward. 
Re-upholstery & furniture repair ser­Lost: Vivitar camera at Irish Wake. vices also available while you're on vacation.
The film is priceless! (reward). Call 

Judy 1336. ---------------­
Several houses for rent, summer only, Lost: gold ring with pearl. Please call Will accommodate any number of 
students. Reasonable rates. For infor­7947 if found. 
mation call Greg Cress after 7 p.m.287-5361.
Found: one pair of keys in the fountain outside of Hayes-Healy. Claim at the Observer Office. 

----------------Wanted 
Lost: Pair of grey, wool-lined leather gloves during An-Tostal Sat. at Earth­Wnated: Ride to New Jersey (prefera­

ball game. Call 4579. Ask for Mike. 

bly Monmouth County( Can leave late 
Lost: silver keychain with Arab coin. 

May 12 or May 13. Call Gina 8141.
Two keys on chain. Need keys desperately. Call Prof. Richardson at 

I need ride to MILWAUKEE as soon 7195. as possible after May 6. Rick 233-6068 
Found: pair of glasses at Earthball NO footbaiJ programs, any years, 

game. Claim at Lost and Found. Light state prices' 1:3ob Wiggs, 9730 E. Troy

brown frames, teardrop lenses. Indianapolis, Ind. 46239. 
Found: set of girls room keys in front Wnated: one graduation tix. Call of Lyons. Call Mike 1679. Daub 287-2793. 
Need ride to Wichita, KS. after finals. Call Jim 3171. 
Basketball 
NBA PLAYOFFS Western Conference Final Best-of-Seven Wednesday's Game 

Los Angeles 111, Seattle 105 (Los Angeles wins series 4-1) 
Baseball · 
SIZe 
NATIONAL LEAGUE Wednesday's Games 

St. Louis 8, Chicago 2 
Pittsburgh 5, Montreal 0 
New York 2, Philadelphia o 
Houston 5, Cincinnati 1 
San Diego 2, Atlanta 1 
Los Angeles 4, San Francisco 3 
Wanted to buy a standara acoustic guitar with nylon strings. Call 3470. 
Help...2 female college seniors need small ap~rtment for summer. Reason­able. Nrite Alm/Leavitt, 402 S. HenJerson, Apt. 11, Bloomington, IN 47406 or phone 219/778-4186. 
Need ride to Houston, Tx or anywhere near for summer. Share usual. George 3598. 
Riders needed: any point between here and Omaha. Leave on Sunday 11, Call Chris 4643. 
Need ride to Dallas for summer. Can leave afternoon, May 11. Call Mike, 3175. Thanks. 
Wanted: Riders to L.A. area after commencement. Call Tom 6100. 
Need riders to Columbus, Ohio-May 1st. Call Melanie 4822 (SMC). 
Help, I desperatley need a ride to the Washington, D.C. area on May 11, 12 or 13. Few belongings. Call 5407 SMC. 
ND men needed/wanted to help SMC fresh move into dorms on August 23. Sign up in Student Activities office· 166 LeMans or call 41-4319 by May 5. 
Wanted: riders to Atlanta. Leave between 10 p.m. on May 9 and 8 a.m. May 10. Call Lee at 1697 or 1738. 
Riders needed to Tallahassee, Fla. or points between on May 13. Must be able to drive standard trans & share expenses. Call Betsy at 6359. 
Help I I need a ride to Florida. Will share driving and expenses. Steve 1062. 
Need ride to Louisville, Frid. May 2. Share Expenses. 287-3429. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh area Mon., May 12. Will share usual. Please call Mark 1062. 
Need ride to Mpls. can leave May 12, will share usual. No luggage. Call Scott 8260. 
Need rider to San Diego area. Call Mike 8631. 
For Sale 
New King size bed: 76 X 80, 2 boxsprings and mattress-$200.00 with headboard and rails $300. Used king size bed: 2 boxsprings and mattress­$100.00 with headboard and rails­!200.00 Call 1-936-6897 (Plymouth, Ind.( 
For Sale-refrigerator $65, carpet 12 x 9 $60, small table $5, easy chair $10, swivel chair $5. Call Miek 1814. 
'72 Audi for sale. $200-233-6208. 
For sale: 1970 Chevy Biscayne. Good running condition. Good interior, must self before graduation. $400. Calf Mike 3662. 
For sale: Alvarez 6 string acoustic. Call 6369. 
Why buy new when used will do­Super auto-291-6770. Domestic. For­eign, Truck. 
Spring Clearance Sale at Pandora's Books. All new books are 30V2 off and used books are 1/2 off listprice or 2 for 1 regular used price. All types of paperback books available. 937 South Bend Ave. ph. 233-2342. 
1977 Camara, silver 28,000 miles, automatic on console, small V-B gets 19mpg city, stereo 8-track, $3000. 1978 LeMans, maroon, 20,000 miles, automatic small V-6 gets 21 mpg city, Am-Fm stereo-front and rear speakers $3000. Both are in excellent condition. Call Lewis at 1234 weekdays or 288-2961 evenings and weekends. 
For sale: Ph 'd gown-black-blue trim. Cap size 7 1/4. Excellent condition. 232-2617. 
Thursday's Games Montreal (Palmer 0-0) at Pittsburgh (Candelaria 2-1) Atlanta (Niekro 0-4) at San Diego (Wise
H) 
Philadelphia (Carlton 3-1) at New York (Falcone 1-1) Houston (J. Niekro 2-1) at Cincinnati (LaCoss 3-1) Only Games Scheduled 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Wednesday's Games Detroit 5, Texas 4, 10 innings Minnesota 10, Seattle 3 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail. 
Katie, Thanks for the shower Saturday. John and Bill

Tickets 
Goofy,Desperately need only one Grad. tix. 

Happy 22nd

Call Paula 6240. 
Bozo 

HELP! !I need many graduation tlx. 
Kathleen,Will pay SSSS. Jeff 8764. 

Good luck this weekend! Love,

I NEED graduation tix. Will pay a 
J.

reasonable sum. Super-scalpers need 
not call Bob 287-2793. ---------------­
AI, Happy birthday. I'm looking for­

Help stop a blood feud! I Need 
ward to 250(&)(&)(&).

graduation tix. B's bucks!! Call Joe 
Love,

1621. 
Linda 

Need one graduation ticket. Will pay My dear Dome Staff:
$$$$. Call Beth-7160. 
What did I do to deserve such a ------------~---generous and beautiful gift?
Mafia Godfathe wants to see me I thank you and I love you.
graduate. If I don't get him tix I won't 
Ceil

graduate. HELP!! !1 Mick 8212-Grad 
Tix. 
ND-SM C Club of St. Louis Baggage 
Truck-information in this week'sWill pay excellent$$$ for 2 grad. tix. 

newsletter. Picnic this Saturday 11-5.,

Please call Rick 277-1598. 
Call 7374 for more information. Need one graduation tix. Call Brain ---------------­
Mr. Boar will be allowed to drink beer

233-6208 
and eat Cracker Jack (but not hot dogs) on May 10 at Wrigley Field.

Need 2 or 3 grad. tix. will pay 
bucks'' I Call 3324. 
Need ride to NYC, Phila. or New Jersey. Can leave May 10 after 4. OneI NEED 2-4 TIX FOR THE WHO. 

Suitcase and will share expenses.

RICK 233-6068. 
Ka~en 41-5169. 
To Thursday niters,

Personals 
Tonite we'll see if it's more fun to do it when we're drunk. Be there.

Gary Sieber, Mike Frailey and Ann 
Margaret

Hessburgh: Thanks for being a whop­
P.S. Nick-bring Irving.

ping NUMERO UNO!! 
Your Hosts of Through the Lens, Monday Night Staff:Marilyn and Andrea 
Many thanks for many months of dedicated service. The Titanic has

Riders to Dayton, Ohio will leave 5/9 limped into port at the hands of a or 5!10. Minimal luggage space due drunken skipper. Come to the Obser­
to broken spring on truck. Tom ver party this Saturday.
272-8219. 
Ryan "no doz" Ver Berkmoes Mat Day is J-Day. 
Needed: Rides to visit my schookems in Chicaco this summer. Call Tom at

We're going out in style with Lisa 
1003.

Barrett (9-10) and Mel Wesley (10-12) 
Thursday night at the NAZZ. Be 
Lynn-

there. 
Happy belated 22nd. Love,Friday at the NAZZ ... 9-10:30 Mark 

Jod

Ulliman, Matt Schwind, Sandy Panco. 
10:30-1 Doug Stringer 
PJG Happy Birthday'Need ride to Conn. after finals. Can 

Love,leave May 9. Share usual. Call Janice LCT

7119. 
P.S. I finally remembered. EAT 

Mary Rauth 
Cheerleading picnic on the GreenYou're cute!! 

Field May 4th at 2 p.m.

A Secret Admirer ZELDA ­
Attention Detroiters need to get some SORRY I MISSED YOUR 20th!!!!
luggage home? Put it on the Detroit 
LITTLE LATE BUT HAPPY BIRTH·Club truck. Call Jim Crowe at 6770 to DAY. 

reserve space. Reservations must be 
Huff

made by 5/6. BEAUTIFUL: HAVE A GREAT
Chris-TIME, TAKE CARE, GIVE MY BESTWe're holding your boxers for 
TO EVERYONE, PULL AN EAR, I ransom. They' II be returned when you 

MISS YOU VERY MUCH, THANKS

promise not to wear them. 
FOR MAKING MY FOUR YEARSI Ho ch'uan 
HERE SO MEMORABLE, LOVE­FRED

Bob, 
xxxxxxxo.

Happy Birthday to you. 
Happy Birthday to you, Ex-MeotoHappy Birthday (president) Mary Thanks. You're the greatest. This isschneider. 
the last 1

Happy Birthda. 'J you!-Karen 
O'Cieary 

TODAY IS MAY DAY 
Lost: Minolta 110 camera in a brown case at the mud pits. Please calf 6859.

Desperately need grad. tix. for loved Thanks. 
ones. Pay bucks 1803. WANTED: RIDE TO CLEVELAND,
The Notre Dame Club of Grand Rapls Fri. May 2. Can leave anytime. Callinvites all students from GR to 
41-4107 or 41-4532.

"Happy Hour" in Dillon's basement 
at 8:30p.m. on May 2nd. 
Goose. Thanks, aida in. for lettmg me spendNJ Club year-end bus is now taking the weekend.

reservations. Call Dave at 1148, Chris Huff
at 1178 or Kevinat 1166 to reserve 
your seat. Last Day for resevatlons is 
GET HIGH FOR J-DAY
Fri., May 2. To my knight:
Mona: To a fellow intelligent, beauti­
3 formals is a record and they keep

ful and witty Arab-Happy Belated getting better each time-thanks.
8-Day. 
Good luck with finals. I'm going to
Love, 

' miss you in a couple of weeks, so try
Avman 

and visit! Found: Love, Small black puppy with wbite spot on the Damsel chest and wearing leather collar. In ox 
O'Sha . Call Mar at 1320. 
Baltimore 7. New York 4 Kansas City 3, Toronto 0 Milwaukee at Clevelard, ppd. fog Chicago 2, Boston 1 California 2, Oakland 1 
Thursday's Games Cleveland (Denny 0-2) at Toronto (Le­
manczyk 1-2) Boston (Hurst 1-0) at Chicago (Trout 1-1) Seattle (Beattie 0-1) at California (knapp 
0-1) 
j' 

• 

Grant-in-aid reductions and cuts in travel costs appear to have the ln:Sh hockey team and several others bound for the CCHA for the 1980-81 season. 
Edge Broncos 

Netters regain winning ways 
Thursday,May 1, 1980-page 16 
I' ' 
leers consider switch 
by Bn{m Beglane merger between the CCHA and Sports Wn'ter the WCHA. Approximately 16 schois would jom the new loop, Although plans are set for with two divisions. One Notre Dame next season in ·the division would encompass 
•[ Western Collegiate Hockey teams from lower Michtgan, t::\;, Association, the chances for the Ohio and Jndiana, while the I'1/. Irish to remain members of the other would includeclubs from
,.1 
WCHApast the 1980-81 season Wisconsin, Minnesota, upper t have dwindled to near Michigan, and North Dakota. zero. The present structure of the
I 
I~ 
II Following the University's WCHA spans approximately March 22 announcement of a 1000 miles. The new league
r~ 
gradual reduction in grants-in­would cut travel costs consider­
:1 
r: 
j -~ aid and travel costs to the ably with most road games hockey program, Notre Dame being bus trips. ~· i coach Lefty Smith informed the Denver and Colorado 1'\ league that an effort must be College-two charter members I made to cut back on travel of the league-would be out of~~ \1 expenses for conference play. the new picture, however. Otherwise, Smith said, Notre Wisconsin, NCAA champion : i ::, '•I ' Dame would not be able to Norrh Dakota, Minnesota and continue as a member of the M inn e sota-D u I u t h o p p o s·e 
~~ 
k) 10-team WCHA. Michigan, restructuring, saying bringing:,j Michigan State and Michtgan in members of the CCHA would 
~~~ 
Tech backed Notre Dame's hun the WCHA schools. A J ultimatum. feeling of loyalty to Denver and 
:~ 
f: 
A stalemate was reached at Colorado College (both were the league meetings in Denver members in 1952 when it was 
last week between these four called the Midwest Hockey 
I 
,~ schools and the other six . League) is also a factor. members. Reaching common At the League's rap se~sion e;round on the issue of cutbacks in Denver last week, Michigan m travel costs now seems athletic director Don Canham unlikely, so it appears the Irish walked out of themeeting when 
will be members of the Central the proposal for travel cutbacks Coll~giate Hockey Association was received as if it were· news. 
;I by Michael Ortman Carlton Harris and Herb best won-loss percentage since in two years. The WCHA put off further.; .I Associate Sports Editor Hopwood soon iced the cake 1967 when another of Fallon's "We aren't the only ones discussion of the matter to .a
24 Notre Dame teams finished
lit with a 6-1 , 6-4 victory over having problems,'' said Notre later date.
It wasn't easy, but the Notre 14-2 (.875) and went on to win
n Steve Winsor and Scott Spoerl Dame athletic director Ed "We were all asked to go
Dame tennis team got back on the Eastern Collegiate Champ­
IL' in the top singles contest. (Moose) Krause. ''Michigan, back to our athletic boards, see
ionships.
(1;-._ th ': winning track yesterday ''We're still on course for 20 Michigan State, and Michtgan if we could come up with a plan
afternoon, with a 5-4 victory Fallon has already accepted a
II-' wins," said Harris of the Irish Tech are also concerned about and report back to the
( c ;er visiting Western Michigan.
I ' ·,· l 
team which now stands 16-3 bid for his team to compete in nsmg costs. We've been University of Minnesota on r.·l with just four matches remain­the Easterns this year, to be talking about some of these June 11, " said Krause. "If it
"We knew they'd by tough,"

IL 
ing. "We got a little scare problems for five years now, works out where they can save:iaid Irish coach Tom Fallon. held in Rochester, N.Y. , May
J; today, but I think the worst is and they WCHA) had us some money, we'll stay. I 
I ''We beat them laSt year on 24-26. Notre Dame has won that (the
over.'' nothing to offer us that was would hate to leave our confer­·~ their courts, 5-4. They have an 
t crown four times since 1966,
. . In the number six singles worthwhile.'' ence because it is a good
'· ' excellent team again this 
matiCh, Notre Dame's Tom Rob­the most recent tide coming in Smith and the other schools
year.'' [continued on page 14)
·\ ' inson lost his first match in 1976. presented. a proposal for a 
H F:>r the first time this season, nearly two months, dropping a the Irish split the singles 1-6, 7-5, 6-3 squeaker to Kas­matcnes with their opponent, son. Robison, who now owns a winnir.g at number two. four 15-2 record on the year, had 


Kelly resigns coaching post
and five and losing two of the won 15 straight before yester­other three in though three-set­day. ters. Needing two doubles vic­If the Irish can continue their by Bill Marquard A graduate of Western work with, like weather and tories to se:ll the team win, the winning ways through the Sports Writer Michigan University, Kelly grants-in-aid, that most of our third Irish :iuo of Jim Falvey weekend when they play four came to Notre Dame as an opponents did. It takes time to and Tim Noonan quickly did matches in three days to close Notre Dame baseball coach assistant to Irish coaching improve a program; you reallyaway with Doug Hahn and Dan out the regular season, they Tom Kelly disclosed to The legend Jake Kline. Kelly can't do it overnight. I'd sayKasson, 6-1, 6-1. would finish 20-3 (.869), the Observer yesterday that he will became head coach after the that the overall program has 
r 1. . be stepping down as head 1975 season and has compiled been upgraded in the years I've coach at the end of this season. an 83-101-1 record in his five coached here.'' Kelly, who was appointed years as mentor, including this Stephens also made the the director of Non-Varsity year's record tying 24-7 slate. official announrement of

Belles squeezepast Irish 
Sports at the beginning of the ''The Director of Non-Varsity Kefly' s successor yesterday year, felt that he could not Sports has a very important afternoon. spend enough time with both job,'' said associate athletic ''Mr. Krause is very happy to 
by Kate Huffman programs and would have to director, Col. ) ohn Stephens, announce that Larry Gallo, Sports l.Fn'ter of the eighth mnmg, Sue relinquish one of the jobs. "his job involves more students currently an assistant coach for Nicholas scored when Mary ''There comes a time when than the varsity program and Notre Dame, will become the The Saint Mary's s,1ftball Beth Hosinski slammed atriple you have an objective decision. he has the responsibility to head baseball coach," ~-aid 
team wound up it'i regular down the third base line, The non-varsity program is promote the university's Stephens. season play yesterd..·y wah a putting St. Mary's ahead 2-1. expanding and developing, and objective of athletics for all" Gallo, a !973 graduate of the 4-1 extra inmng win over the The Belles added two I feel it requires more of my ''I know that Coach Kelly University of Rhode Island and Notre Dame team. It was ~he insurance runs when Hosinski personal attention. In fairness made the decision to step down an assistant there from 
second time the Belk'i :1nd the and Cindy Schwenk crossed the to both programs, I feel that I with a great deal of reluctance -1974-79, joined the Notre Dame Irish have met on the :liamond plate on a triple by freshman should step down as baseball he is very fond of his coaching baseball staff as a volunteer this season; the two s~tuads Mary Bayless. coach to devote all my time to activities.'' coach last fall. An instructor in split a double-header e ulier Bayless was the winning non-varsity athletics,'' Kelly, who has assisted in the physical education this month. _!Jitcher for St. Mary's, hurling explained Kelly. the non-varsity program since department, Gallo coaches the The Belles starred he five strike outs and giving up ''In fact, I brought the 1968, feels that the newer job is Cotuit Kettlers in the Cape Cod 
c;coring in the early innings of ody five hits. situation to Moose Krause's more suited to his background. Baseball League during the the game when sophomo:e Yesterday's game also attention over the winter, and ''Athletic administration is summer, a league composed of Leslie Roberts scored on a mat '<:ed the end of the Irish after discussing it with him I the direction I really want to baseball players from all over bases-loaded wild pitch by Irish seaSl'n. The team, hoping to made the decision prior to the pursue," explained Kelly 11 who the United States. 
hurler Kathy McMahon. The attain club status before the start of our spring schedule. holds a Ph.D. in ec4,lcation "Coach Kelly has done an score remained 1-0 in favor of r ext softball season rolls Emotionally, I wish I could administration from Notre excellent job in his five years,'' the Belles until late inthe game around, fmished 4-5 on the keep both jobs, but that is not Dame. "During this year, my commented Gallo. "It is no when Notre Dame chalked up year. really feasible. '' job became more and more secret that the program was its only runas freshman Nancy The Belles, 6-7 on the sea­Kelly informed the team of time consuming. We have alot floundering when he took over. Jackson hit a triple and then son, will travel to Upland, Ind., his decision a week before their of plans for expanding the A team cannot be turned 1.' beat out a throw to home plate Friday for the Divis.on III Srate spring season began. ''I felt program even more, and I around overnight or in a year, 
; on a short Irish tap to second. Tournament hosted by Taylor that it was only fatr to tell them n·1lly think that I will have the and I think this season is a real 
With the score tied at the end University. St. Mary's will take in advance. Besides, this tilfle to fully implement them indication ',f wnere Tom has of the regul~r 7 -inning play, the on Grace College in the first should also insure a smooth now. " taken this ballclub. game went tnto extra mnmgs. round of the single elimination transition in the baseball Kelly looks back positively on "The team realizes that it But it didn't take the Belles contest. Garne time is 12:00 program from one coach to his five y-ears as head coach. 
[continued on page 14)
,, long to break the tie. In the top p.m. · another.'' ''We didn't have the things to I 
!' 
•
~~. 




