----~--------------------------------------------------------------~~ 
, , , 'Macbeth ' -Page 5· 

VOL. XIV, ~0. 123 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saim mary's MONDAY, APRIL 21, 1980 
Japan 
•

reJects Iranian oil 
TOKYO (AP) -After nearly six months of agonizing over how to support the United States in the Iran hostage crisis, oil-dependent Japan suddenly finds ttself praised by its ally for bold leadership. 
In a decision ·that could bring an immediate cutoff of about 10 percent of its oil supply, Ja p­an's six major oil companies were reported yesterday to have rejected a demand by the National Iranian Oil Co. for a $2. 50 hike in the price of Iranian light crude. 
There was no official confirma­tion, and government spokes­men were unavailable over the weekend. But the decision was widely reported by newspapers quoting government sources, some reporting further that the United States had pledged to provide oil to replace that which would be lost. 
Iran's Oil Minister Ali Akbar Moinfar was quoted by Tehran Radio as sayin~ Iran would react to the "slightest hostil­ity'' from Japan by suspending oil shipments to the Asian industrial giant starting today. 
Moinfar lashed out at the "the threats and pres<>ures exercised by America against the Japan­ese oil companies," and an­nounced that Soviet bloc coun­tries had recently agreed to pay the price Japan rejected. 
Japan imports about 99 per­cent of its oil, and the portion from Iran amounts to 530,000 barrels a day. That's is an important outlet for Iran, which has announced daily production at below 2 million barrels and needs the oil revenue to import food and other supplies disrupted in Islamic revolution. 
The increase would boost the cost of Iranian oil _to $35. a barrel, which is $9 more than the Japanese companies pay for Saudi Arabian crude of similar quality. 
U. S. officials quickly welcom­ed the Japanese price decision as a stgn of support against Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's regime. U. S. State Depart­ment spokesman Hodding Car­ter said Japan's move could be "the single most significant step taken'' toward peacefully freeing the hostages. 
The 50 Americans yesterday spent their !69th day as prison­ers of Iranian militants de­manding the return of deposed Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi and a U. S. admission of co.mplicity m his alleged cnmes. 
President Carter has refused 
their demands, at the same. 
time l?ressing .u. S. allies to join 
sancuons agamst Iran. 
Hodding Carter told reporters in Omah, Neb., that Japan's reported action would mean "the Japanese nave effectively assumed the leadership in put­ting together a united front'' of 
U. S. allies, and because Japan is the most oil-dependent, ''there would be no excuse'' for the others to continued trading with Iran. 
Margie Brasszl SMC Executive Editor 

The candidates for Saint Mary's Class and Hall officers was announced today by Stu­dent Government President Kathleen Sweeney. The nomi­nations opened last Wednesday and closed last night at mid­night. 
Three tickets have been nominated for the Senior Class. Mary Jane Beckman, (Presi­dent), Nanehe Krause, (vice­President), Eileen Murray, (Secretary), and Beth Welsh, (Treasurer) comprise one ticket. Theresa Hill, (President), Maureen O'Brien, (Vice­President), Mary Stoll, (Sec­retary), and Cecilia Boyle, (Treasurer) are running. on the second ticket. Cindy Karpowicz (President), Carol Hennessy, (Vice-President), Maureen O'Brien, (Secretary), and Janice Lampe, (Treasurer) make up the third ticket. 
The Junior -class ticket, run­ning unopposed, is Mary O'Keefe, (President), Marianne Callan, (Vice-Presi­dent), Nancy Flavin, (Sec­retary), and Mary Agnes Carey, (Treasurer). 
The Sophomore Class Ticket, also unopposed is, Erin Flood, (President), Dana McCown, (Vice-President), Monica Dornbach, (Secretary), and Lucy Hanahan, (Treasurer). 
Two tickets have been nomi­
nated for the Lemans Hall 
officers. Marte Megargle, 
(President), and Kathleen 
Engler, (Vice-President), are 

-

Luther asks 0-C residents to help in crime prevention 
by John M. Higgins 
Off-campus residents cannot depend totally upon the police and the University administration to protect them from crime; they must take it upon themselves. This is the message of Brother Edward Luther of the Off-Campus Housing Office. Luther said this weekend that they can be the greatest det•:rrent of crime if they deal with the situation properly. 
"There's only so much the University can do," Luther said. ''Security has no jurisdiction in the off-campus neighborhoods. And the police say that this area has as much crime as some other areas and that no more manpower can be provided.'' 
The key, he added, is for students to take greater responsibilitv for their own protection, such as making sure their landlords provide good locks on windows :,1nd doors and considering themselves as part of the neighborhood, rather than as temporary residents. 
"We had quite a number of burglaries at Notre Dame apartments at the beginning of last semester because of poor door locks," Luther said. "You could force them open with almost no effort at all. But since we asked them to install solid, dead bolt locks, I haven't heard of a single break-in." 
Luther also recommends establishing a good relationship with neighbors as a good tool for deterring crime. "I know of some people who live in three houses, all to each other, who have a nei~hbor keep an eye on their houses for them, picking up the mat! and such. In return, they shovel fiis walk and do light yardwork. They haven't had a single break-in." 
"A big problem is that students don't see themselves as residents of the neighborhood,'' Off-Campus Commissioner Mark Kell.ey s::~.id. "We're trying to get them more interested in the neighborhood as a neighborhood and not just as a place to live for a year." ­
However, the South Bend police are still a large factor in ensuring the safety of off-campus students and their property. 
"They (the police) acknowledge our problems, but they just 
aren't willing to part with another car," Luther said. "One 
problem we have is that the police don't make any distinction if a 
student is the victim of crime. We need to know exactly how 
many students are involved if we are going to act." 
"Students must report incidents t'o both the South Bend police and Notre Dame Security," Kelley stressed. "We need something concrete to bring to the police. We can't just tell them running on one ticket. Meg that there's a lot of crime."
Breslin, (President), and Susie Kelley will attend a meeting this afternoon with administrationEckelkamp, (Vice-President) and student officiaL> and representatives of the South Bend Police comprise the second ticket. 
Department. "We need these meetings all the time, not only
Debbie Mardoian, (Presi­
after somethin5 happens,'' he said, referring to last Tuesday'sdent), and Nancy Sonego, (vice­robberyI murder of a ~outh Bend woman in her Notre DamePresident) are running un­Avenue apartment. "We were supposed to have a meeting lastopposed for Holy Cross Hall. 
month, but when I showed up at City Hall, I found that the 
[coninued on page 4) [continued on page 4] 

i 
j
Russians callfor suspension ofUSOC ~ 
LAUSANNE, Switzerland (AP) -The Russians are expected to open a campaign today to have the U. S. Olympic Committee suspended from the Olympic movement for. deciding to boy­cott the Moscow Games. 
Vitaly Smirnov, Soviet mem­ber of the International Olympic Committee and a vice presi­dent, will ask for the suspen­sion at a meeting of the IOC executive board. 
'The Russians charge that the USOC has broken Rule 24 of the Olympic Charter by yielding. to political pressure and gomg along with President Jimmy Carter's call for a breakout. 
Any decision would have to be taken by the full roc session, scheduled for Moscow in July, before the start of the Games. 
If the USOC were suspended for four years or more, the 1984 Olympic Games in Los Angeles would be in . danger, because the USOC is a party to the contract for staging them. 
But Lord Killanm, president of the IOC, expressed his faith in Los Angeles and said there is no plan to deprive the city of the 
1984 Games. 
On the way to the Lausanne 
meeting, Killanin dined and 
talked for seven -hours with 
Peter Ueberroth, president of 
rhe Los Angeles Organizing 
Committee. 
A brief communique on the meeting, issued -by Killanin himself, said, ''The president .of the IOC said the Olympic Games are the property of the IOC, which designates where 
they will be held. 
''Lord Kilian in conftrmed that 
there was no question of mov­
ing the Games from Los Angel­
ed, which was granted them in 
1978. The IOC is very pleased 
with the Los Angeles Organiz­
ing Committee and the way its 
administration is conduc; ~J. '' 
Russian moves for disciplinary action against the U. S. Olym­pic Committee will lose much of their force ifmore countries join the boycott. At present Aus­tralia and most Western Euro­pean countries are delaying a decision. 
l J 
The IOC executive board is due to meet all day today to discuss the worsening situation of the Moscow Olympics. Tomorrow it will confer with the J 25 international federations J which run the Olympic sports. 
A major topic of discussion 
1
will be a possible change of rules to allow athletes to com­pete in the Moscow Games as 
individuals, even though their national Olympic comrnitree is boycotting. At present the rules say all athletes have to be e~tered by their national com­mittees. 
The _Russian~ orposmg any ..:·l::'.'J•:t>s 1:1 ;he opemng cer>' .--';:e Associated r-.Ht,eu. Some national 
d 

committees have ask­eo ,:;r national flags to be abanJoned, to take some of the nationalism out of the occasion. 
They think it might help apl?ease some governments wh1ch oppose their athletes competing in Moscow following the So-, ;et intervention in Af­ghanistan. 


-------------~--­
.. 

News in brief 
Monday, April 21, 1980 -page 2 
... Nuclear po-wer
Eight month-old strike ends 
[continued from page 3] contamination is, if not forever, 6. alternative forms of energy
as contractpasses 4-1 
Nuclear power consumes bil­for 25,000 years. Even if this ~reate more l"obs and job secur­lions of tax dollars through 
generation opts for nuclear Ity, 7. nuc ear energy repre­CHICAGO (AP) ·The longest major strike in United Auto 
power it must take into account sents a further concentration of Workers' history came to an end yesterday as union 
investment credits, subsidies 
that it is burdening all future economic and political power in 
for research, etc. The govern­
members voted overwhelmingly to accept a new three~year ment must subsidize its insur­generations with its waste. the hands of a few, not only contract with International Harvester Co., a union official The National Council of the
ance because private insurance within our country, but gmbal­said. "Even if the remaining locals voted 100 percent 
companies believe nuclear Fellowship of Reconciliation ly, by reinforcing the domina­against the agreement, it wouldn't change anything now," 
power is too dangerous to made several points in regard tion of developing countries bysaid Pat Greathouse, OAW vice president. He declared the 
msure. The United States to nuclear power that will be developed nattons by the export contract ratified yesterday as ratification vote totals ran 
developed further in. these art· of capital-intensive polluting
House of Representatives Sub­
more than 4-1 in favor of ending the strike. Bargainers for ides: L there is evidence that technologies.
committee on Environmental 
the company and the union reached tentative agreement on radiation from the normal emis­Timothy Miller, a religious
Energy and Natural Resources 
the proposed national contract last Thursday after more sions of nuclear power plants is studies professor at the Univer­
has stated, "Contrary to wide­
than eight months of negotiations. The pact includes a 3 having damaging effects upon sity of Kansas wrote that,
spread belief, nuclear power is 
health, 2. the health of persons "Perhaps the most debilitatingpercent pay raise each of the three years of the contract plus 
no longer a cheap power
quarterly cost-of-living adjustmems and improved pension working with nuclear materials of the evil powers we face, is
·source. In fact, when still 
benefits. 

and wastes has been adversely yielding to a pervasive sense of affected, 3. the threat of Impotence and apathy to take 
unknown costs ... are finally in­
cluded in the rate base, nuclear 
catastrophe has not been elimi­any action ... This amounts to a
power may well not be econom­
nated, 4. no feasible plan of cynicism with respect to both
General sent by Carter fails 
ICally competitive with safe, 
storage has been adopted, 5. our Christian and our democra­
renewable energy alternatives, 
nuclear energy is an inefficient tic heritages. Only if oursuch as solar power.''
to initiate military coup 
So far we have discussed and costly form of energy bondage to an enervating sense problems that occur during the production, especially when of powerlessness can be broken normal course of nuclear power 
hidden costs and ~overnment can an effective response to the subsidies are taken tnto account energy crisis be made.''
plant operations, such as back­
NEW YORK (AP) · An Air Force general was sent to Iran 
ground radiation, waste dispos­
last year to lay the groundwork for a military coup to keep 
STUDY LAW IN Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini from coming to power, the 
al problems, and economic 
WASHINGTON New York Times reported yesterday. The plan never 
drawbacks. What about acci­
dents? 

materialized because of the rapid disintegration of Iran's 
Two type::. of potential au:i­
POTOMACSCHOOLOFLAWmilitary forces, the newspaper said, quoting unidentified 
dents are possible. An accident senior federal officials. The paper said ~resid~~t Carter .sent 
with the reactor or an accident Potomac School of Law is notThe WatergateGen. Robert E. Auyser, a former !raman military adviser, 
in the transportation of radio­
yet accredited by the American2600 Virginia A venue, N. W.
on a mission in early 1979 to try to keep the military forces 
active fuels and wastes. The 
Washington, D.C. 20037 Bar Association. If provisional in Iran intact and loyal to the ~overnment of Prime Minister 
Nuclear Regulatory Commis­
accreditation is not received(202) 337-3880Shahpur Bakhtiar. The Bakhttar government was establish­
sion estimates the chances of an 
LSAT/LSDAS required before a student graduates, theed by Shah mohammad Reza Pahlavi as he left the country. 
accident at one-in-a-billion. • 
student may not be eligible to 
But they admit that they have 
Day & eveing classes sit for the bar examination in 
no basis for this estimation. 

Begin September 1980 most jurisdictions.
Henry Kindall of the Union of Concerned Scientists estimates
Weather 

that the possibility of an acci­dent occurring is one-in­500,000. According to either of these estimates, any of theSunny and very warm days and fair night~ th~ough 
accidents that have already
Tuesday. Highs Monday mid 70s. Lows Monday mght m the 
occurred should not have hap­
low 50s and highs Tuesday in the lower 80s. 
pened. 

Ignoring the chances of acci­dents, companies prefer to build nuclear power plants near populati9n centers to lessen transportation costs. This also 
Vegtable Buddies'
CamRu_S_~ lessens the chances of a safe evacuation for all in the event of 
---•Showtim·e 9:30-?____.
an accident. Companies now are transporting extremely haz­
12:15 p.m. DEVELOPM~NTAL WORKSHOP "w?men in 
r----------------------------,
ardous substances through
guinea bissear" stephante _urdang, consultant With u.n. 
1 

highly populated areas by truck 25¢save save25¢.vriter. sponsored by economtcs dept. MEM LIB. LOUNGE. 
and rail. An accident with nuclear3:30p.m. LECTURE "equal rights for worn~~ in africa," 
~~ 

THEHUDDLE 
~~ 

materials, and many have al­
stephanie urdang. sponsored by center for ctvtl & human 
ready occurred, is very differ­
rights. 105 LAW SCHOOL. . 
em from an accident with hazardous chemicals. Nuclear
3:30 p.m. COMPUTER MINI CC?URSE advanced jcl for disk & tape. sponsored by computtng center. 115 CCMB. 
BIG FRY 79¢ 
~1he_Q1Jseryer_ 
& o~'-"
4:15p.m. ECONOMICS DEPT. LECTUR~ "mathematics 
Night Editor: M. Teri

& morals," prof. robert cooter, u of caltf., berkley. 122 MichieluttiHAYES-HEALY. 
BIG DRINK with coupon
Asst. Night Editor: Mike 
Monk, Rick Freedman

6:45pm. ROSARY daily at the GROTTO. 
Copy Editor: Lynne Daley 

EXPIRES 5/2/80
News Editor: Margie Brassil 

7 & 9:45 p.m. FILM roman polanski's film, "macbeth," 
save
Sports Layout: Tom "Roses" 
save

sponsored by english dept. ENGR. AUD. 
Schuster 
Typists: Paula Shea, Bill 
save 25¢

7,9, 11 p m. FILM "dr. strangelove," admission $1. 
25¢save
Swift, M. Monk, Mary Beth

members free. K of C HALL. 
Budd, Marilyn Broderick 

L----------------------------­
EMT: Mike Galvin 
Proofreader: Rick Freedman

7 p.rn. DINNER south bend press club hoaxes banquet. 
(social hour at 5 pm). ACC. 
nights ofa!nlumbu.a
ND Day Editor: B. Bernoskie 
SMC Day Editor: Peggy

7 p.rn. PANEL DISCUS?ION_ "is preferential fair?: s_tudent 
r::::::-: presents: :::-::::1
viewpoints," shawn colltns, nchard meyers, dale robmsot;t. 
Schneeman moderator-prof. james sterba, nd sponsored by umv. 
Ad Design: Molly O'Neill, committee on justice. 115 LAW SCHOOL. 
1 --ur. ~trangelove" 1
Dave Wood, Anne Fink 
Photographer: Phil Johnson 

A Peter Sellers, George C. Scott .
7 p m MEETING gsu meeting for 1979-80 representatives. 
'=" Columbia; Directed by Stanley Kub~1ck ! published Monday through Friday 
sp~ns~red by grad. student umon WILSON COMMONS. 
The Obatrvtr (USPS 598 920) Is 

Black and White; Rated PG, A-4; 93 mmutes except during exam and vacation
7:30 p.m. FILM "amacord," sponsored by sp/dr. 
periods. The Obatrver Is published
WASHINGTON HALL. 
by the students of Notre Dame and 
Mon., Tues., &Wed. 
Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions 
may be purchased for $20 per year

8 p.m. LEC!LJRE "JUSTIC.~ FOR ~OMEN: A 
April21, 22 &23
($10 per semester) by writing Tilt

comparison, afnca & the u._s., ~tephame urdang. 
Obatrvtr, P.O. Box Q, Notre

sponsored by int'l studies, o'netll chair, law school ad hoc 
7,9,& 11 pm.
Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class 

committee on women. HAYES-HEALY AUD. 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Tilt Obumr Is a member of the 
KofCHall

g p.m. SPEA~~R with mel blanc. sponsored by s. u. 
Associated Press. All reproduction

academic commision. LIB. AUD. 
rights are reserved. 

Admission: Sl, Members: Free 


Monday, April 21, 1980 -page 3 
The Observer 
Earth Week 
N~clear power poses dangers • • • 
Editor's Note: In anticipation 
of tomorrow's Earth Day, the 
tenth anniversary ofthe origin­
al Earth Da'V in 1970, the 
campus sponsored Students U­
nited for Responsible Enerf!..y 
[SURE] have provzded The 
Observer with the following 
sen·es ofarticles. The articles 
are intended to "foster public 
education to increase citizen 
involvement in energy policy 
decisions'' according to SURE, 
and will discuss the fuel cycle, 
nucl~ar waste, corporate res­
• ponsibzlity andalternative ener­gy sources in today and tomor­row's issues. The Observer accepts no responszbility for the editonal content of the follow­ing articles, each ofwhich were wn'ttef! by members ofSURE. 
by Sue Marshall and]elfGuise 
Nuclear power is a short term solution to our energy problems because there is a limited amount of fissionable materi­als. The basic raw material used for both nuclear plants and nuclear bombs is concen­trated oranium ore. In the United States the biggest sup­plier of this ore is Gulf Atomic (Gulf Oil) and Exxon. In two years, 1977 to 1979, these and other companies have raised the price of uranium ot;e from $8 to $40 a pound. 
Some sources say that urani­um is in as short supply as oil and natural gas, and that we will only have enough uranium, at affordable prices, for 30 to 40 years. The government and the nuclear industry have two solu­tions to this problem: either reprocess the waste to recover uranium and plutonium for re-use, or develop the breeder­reactor, which produ.:es more nuclear fuel than it uses. The industry favors the develop­ment of the breeder-reactor, which has yet to be shown to work, although it is extremely expensive. 
A growing group of scientists from within the nuclear indus­try warn against depending on nuclear plants for energy. Dr. John Gofman, a professor of medical physics at the Univer­sity of California, who was a participant in the Manhattan Project that developed the a­tomic bomb, has predicted that the normal course of operations 
... No fission allowed 
by Paul Quadn.ni 

Nuclear power plants require a supply of fissionable fuel for its 30 year life span, just as a combustion engine needs gaso­line. The fuel presently used in the United States and other 
• countries is uranium oxide (U02). Uranium 235 must make up j% of this fuel to ensure sufficient heat to create steam and turn a turbine, thus gt'nerating electricity in a boiling water reactor. The first step in the produc­tion of U02 begins in the uranium mines. In the US these mines are primarily located in Arj.zona, Colorado, Nevada, .\.!e\, Mexico, and Utah. In the mines, the miners are dange:-rouslv exposed to radon gas and ·radium dust. Radon gas has been directly linked to lung cancer in uranium miners. If mined under proper c,mditions this hazard can be reduced. Unfortuna_te:-ly. proper mining conditions generally have not existed in the mines.. After the uramum is mined, it must be finely ground and the uranium ore sel-larared from the sandstone at a inilling plant. It is then chemically refined to U308, known as "yellow cake." For every 2,000 pounds of uranium mined, approxi­mately four pounds is pure uranium. The remainder is known as ·'tailings,'' which is still extremely radioactive. 
The tailings are left in uncovered ptles around the mines, giving off radium dust and radon gas and exposing the nearby population to radiation hazards. These uncovered tailings are subject to erosion by wmd and water and can easily enter the food chain. This has been exemplified near the city of Durango, Colorado, where radioactive elements entered the food chain through the Animas River, the area's water source. Significant increases in the cancer rate and other related diseases have been noted there, as well as in Grand Junction, Colorado, where tailings were used in place of sand in concrete and mortar for construction of several thousand homes and buildings. 
The natural uranium is then transported ro a conversion and enrichmentJlant. The uranium is convene to uranium hexa­fluoride (UF6), a dense gas. At the enrichment plant the UF6 is passed through diffusion cells ... These porous membranes allow the U-23'5 to pass through, but block the path of the heavier U-238. Gradually, the.concen­tration of U-235 is increased to the needed amount at which it 
[continued from page 5] 

---------------------------------.-,
RIVER CITY RECORDS 
northern Indiana's largest record &tape selection and concert ticl(et headquarters 
any regular album or tape
Jl.OO 

purchase with this coupon. 
limit one pet person •xpl••• mcoyiO, 1980
OFF 

TIPPECANOE PLACE RESTAURANT IS NOW HIRING RESTAURANT PERSONNEL full or part tim~;day and_!'t!g!1t~hifts high wages; excellent benefits training:classroom and on the job cordial atmosphere 
FOOD WAITERS AND WAITRESSES .BUSBOYSIBUSGIRlS COCKTAIL WAITRESSES DISHWMHERS BROILERCOOKS HOSTESSES BARTENDERS PREP COOKS MAINTENANCE MEN 
APPLY IN PERSON BETWEEN II:00am &6:00 pm MONDAY THRU S.A.TURDAY AT EOE·M/F
TIPPECANOE PLACE 620 W. Washin~ton Ave South Bend ,Ind. 
of American nuclear reactors, without a major accident, could cause some 30,000 additional deaths each year from cancer, leukemia and birth defects. 
Many scientists believe that the allowable radiation stan­dards currently in use may be as much as 10 to 20 times too high. Dr. Rosalie Bertell, who has done research for more that a decade on low level radiation, says that all radiation levels cause some damage and that "we know of no safe levels." Sr. Benell will be on campus tomorrow to discuss her re­search. 
In addition to the problem of contributing to background radiation, there is the problem 
of the waste that is produced. This will be more thoroughly discussed in another article. ' 
In 1978 the House of Repre­sentatives Committee on Gov­ernmental Operations tabled its report on nuclear power costs. Among other things it found; ·'There is no demonstrated technology for permanently and safely desposing of the waste,'' that neither the government or the industry has "prepared reliable cost estimates for the ultimate disposal and perpetual care of radioactive wastes and spent fuels, that "we do not yet have the technology w dis­mantle a large commercial re­actor and the cost of doing so is not known; and that capital construction and fuel costs have risen ten times faster than the consumer price index.'' It also found that nuclear/lams are capital-intensive an thus pro­duce few jobs. 
Nuclear power is the most expensive power source if one includes all costs. All costs include the disposal of nuclear waste, tearing down nuclear plants after the 40 year life span is completed, and the rising costs of nuclear fuel. Certain Wall Street investment analysts 
believe that nuclear power is a major cause of increasing elec­trical rates due to its enormous costs. 
[continued on page 2] 

In'sh ruggers fight for the mitre in a sunny game with john Carrol University o(Cievelan, Ohio. Notre Dame won all three games of the afternoon. [photo by Phil johnson] • 

8:00P.M. SATURDAY, APRIL 26 
NOTRE DAME ACC 
Tickets on sale now 
All seats reserved: $12.50, $10.00, $8.50. Tickets available at ACC Box Olflce 9 A.M.-5 P.M.; Robertson's, S. Bend & Concord Malls; First Bank; St. Joe Bank; Elkhart lhrth; All River City Record Stores, S. Bend & Michigan City; Suspended Chord, Elkhart; Record Company, Plymouth; Recordland, Benton Harbor; Butterfly Record, 
w.saw. () CENTER STACE IN THE ROUND 

Monday, April 21 , 1980 -page 4 
After nine years 

Shoem.aker m.ust leave ca·mpus 
by Gary Cuneen 

Tony Sergio, who has been operating his shoe repair business at Badin Hall for the past nine years, has received notice from the administration to vacate the premises within sixty days of April 14, 1980. 
Robert Watkins,  director of  
Support  Services,  · explained  
that  the  fire  marshall  

recommended two stairwells be placed within Badin Hall for the safety of the residents, one of 
... Elections 
[continued from page 1] 

McCandless Hall has two tickets nominated. Monica Gugle (President) and Patty Hulley, (Vice-President) are on the first ticket, with Mary 
Scanlon, (President) and Carol Toomey, (Vice-President) run­ning on the second ticket. 
The nominations for Augusta and Regina Halls have not been announced yet. 
Campaigning for the offices began last night at midnight and will continue until Wed­nesday at midnight. Elections will be held Thurs. from 9 am-5 pm in Lemans Hall and during dinner in the dining hall. 
---------------....... 

and S~ial Guest ··· ··· · i 
Off Broadway; 
Tuesday April29 7:30pm Notre Dame A.C.C. 
Tickets: $8.50 and S7.50 on sale now at the ACC Box Office and all usual ACC Ticket Outlet_~ _ 
which would interfere with Sergio's shop. This would leave room for only two shops, i which Watkins plans to include the barber and the expanding hair stylist. The hair stylist has been doing excellent business, and with the added SJ?ace Notre Dame plans to rent htm, he will be able to add more stylists than he presently employs. 
"Tony the Shoemaker," as he is called, has invested $9000 in his business, and feels the University is giving him an unfair deal. "He (Watkins) told me the students come first, but these people don't listen to nobody. This is a religious campus, but these people don't care," Sergio said. 
House intends to vote· on draft andbudget this week 
WASHINGTON tAP) -The House appears likely to vote this week to renew peacetime draft registration, and th<~ House and Senate may vote to balance the federal budget. 
White House officials say they're confident the House will approve tomorrow the $13.3 million President Carter needs to renew draft registration for 19-and 20-year-old men at post 
, , , Crime 
[continued from page 1) 
meeting was cancelled." 

"It's important that students are constantly alert to the situation, not just react to one incident," Kelley continued. "This problem is always with us and it won't go away if we just wait for something to haJ?pen and then act." 
The Off-Campus Commission is sponsoring a program to make students more aware of proper security procedures. Off-Campus Night will be held Wednesday night, at 6:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center. The program will feature speakers from the South Bend Police Department, Off-Campus Housing, Notre Dame Security, and the Northeast Neighborhood Commission, speaking about preventative security measures. 
"We're really trying to attract next year's off-camp~s crowd to this," Kelley said. "This program will really work 1f we have enough people." 
"The University will do all it can to help,"' Luther said. "But the solution lies with the police, the students, and the landlords in making sure_ that this neighborhood is safe." 
Bicycle 
pick-up 
today 
Students who stored their bicycles over the winter may pick them up today and tomorrow afternoons from noon to 4 p.m. at gate 14 of the stadium. A numbered claim stub is required in exchange. 

One alternative would be to relocate Sergw' s shop else­where on camous, a gesture he thinks would· benefit himself and the studenrs. because his is the only shoe repair shop on campus. Watkins feels differently. "It's a service I feel we didn't need. We have no one else in mind to replace him," Watkins said. 
Watkins pointed out that various customers have com­plained about the quality of Sergio's work, and he himself encouraged Tony to go downt­town to a shoemaker to learn more about the trade. When asked if he felt responsible for finding Sergio another place on campus, Watkins replied, "I don't feel obligated." 
offices this summer. 
House Speaker Thomas P. 
O'Neill told reporters "I would 

be very surprised if it does not 
pass.'' 
He said the White House 
count then showed about 206 
House votes for registration 

and 86 against with the rest of 
the 435 House members un­
decided or uncounted. 
Opponents s~y thc:y sti!l hope 
to defeat regtstranon 1n the 
House but say their best chance 
is in the Senate, where Sen. 
Mark Hatfield, R-Ore., has 
vowed to try ro kill it with a 
filibuster. 
Caner wanted to register 
women as well. But a House 
subcommittee defeated author­
ity he would need for that and 
Congress has done nothing further about it. 
Carter's plan would require 
all 19-and 20-yc:ar-old men to 
register at post offices as soon 
as the system could be set up 
this summer, so they could be 
called faster if Congress renew­
ed the draft itself in an emer­
gency. · 
After the registration vote, the House plans to spend the rest of the week on a bill to cut $15 billion off federal spending to balance the budget in an effort to fight inflation. 
Cuts in the House bill would among other things end Satur­day mail delivery and severely trim federal revenue sharing miney for state programs. 
The Senate may also act on its bill to balance the budget. The Senate bill would allow $5.2 billion more for defense spending than President Carter asked and offset that increase with more domestic program cuts than the House bill's. 

The House bill would cut federal spending to $611.8 bil­lion for the 1981 fiscal year starting Oct. 1. The Senate bill would cut it to $612.9 billion. If both bills pass, a House-Senate conference committee would have to work out a single verswn for Congress' final action. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
i::."durJ. -m-(hief.. Paul Mullaney SMC N('ws Editor ..... . Mary Leavtt~ 

Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 :>Jana.umg Editor .. . Mark Rust Sports Editor Beth Huffman The Observer I!; an independent newspaper published by the srudent:o of the Features Ed1tor ........ . . Kate Farrell 
Fd1ton.als Editor .. ... Mike Onufrak 
University of Notre Dame duLac and Satn_t Mary's Collef.e It does fll.)t necessanly Features Editor .. ... . Molly Woulfe
Semor Copy Editor . Lynne Daley 
reflect the policies of the admmtstratton ot etther msmurwn. The news tS reponed Photo Editor . . . . . ..... . . John Macor
Neu•.1 Ed1tor . .. Pam Degnan
as accurat("l;-and as objectively as possible. Editonals represent the optmon of a ----------------------­
News t:.drtor ...... Tom Jacklflan
' majomr of rhe Ediwrial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are tht" vtews Busmess Manager.... . Greg Hedges of tht<t' authors_ C..)Jumn space is avatlable ro all membns of the commun1ry, anJ Neu·s F.dtlor John McGrath Adz•erllSlng Manager . Mike Holsinger thC' free ,.xpresston of varying opinions on ompus, through letters, ts e-ncouraged. Y\1< ExecutiVe Edrtor. Margie Brassil Productwn Manager . .. Ann Monaghan 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
-~ -------------~--------­
• 

[continued from page 3] 
is sufficiently enriched for use 
in nuclear reactors. 
The enriched U-235 is 
converted to solid U02 and 
transported to fabrication 
plants where it is made into 
pellets. The pellets are 
mserted into fuel rods which 
are gathered into fuel 
assemblies and shipped to the 
reactor where they are loaded 
into the core. The rods function 
to control the fission-produced 
chain reaction. The fission 
gives off heat, producmg steam 
which turns the turbine, 
generating electricity. 

Each year, approximately one-third of the used fuel is · replaced. The fuel assemblies are placed in nearby spent-fuel pools of water for temporary storage. They remain thts way for several months until the high radioactive content has decreased. The depleted fuel is then transported back to a reprocessing plant where residual U-235 and plutonium­239 are extracted. The uranium 235 and plutonium-239 are then moved to conversion plants where they re-enter the fuel cycle. Transportation of the spent fuel is particularr. hazardous. It is shipped rad 
Polanski's 1Macbeth' 
•

ratses many questtons 
by Kathy Connelly 
August 9, 1969 Charlie Man­son, accompanied by several others, ent~red the house of actress Sharon Tate and director Roman Polanski and committed violent and bloody murder. Sharon Tate, Polan­ski's wife, was pregnant and the manner of her death augmented· the gruesome nature of the killings--stabbed repeatedly in the abdomen. · 1970, and Polanski was en­~aged in the production of an mnovative film version of Shakespeare's Macbeth. In a Playboy interview, Polanski asserts that those who argue that the violence present in 
the Macbeth film was chosen by Polanski to purge himself of his feelings about the murders "are full of sh-t, 
because it's not so." 
Whether or not it is legiti­mate to link Polanski's person­al experiences to the particu­larly brutal thrust of his movies, his Macbeth is an undeniably violent and contro­versial account of the story of the rise and fall of the Scottish nobleman who commits regi­cide to satisfy his ambitious wife and his owo t·go. 
Macbeth was Playboy Indus­tries first venture into cinema, with Hugh M. Heffner acting as executive producer. With the backing of this multi­national, extravagantly wealthy organization, Polanski was able financially to create an authentic 11th century Scotland. With the financial and creative resources availa­ble to him, Polanski and his entourage spent an awesome amount of time and money recreating the squalid manor of a lessor lord of the period. Even the hundreds of candles used in the film were fashion­ed faithfully from beeswax and reeds. Playboy research­ers also turned up mformation that sleeping gowns were not worn in the 11th century, so Lady Macbeth's. noctural agonizing over her role in the murder of her king was filmed accordingly. 

The viewer must be aware that for a lord to murder his king was akin to patricide. This violation of religious and political oaths as well as the familial association herween Macbeth and the royal family combine to make a horrifying statement about what human beings are capable of doing in the name of greed and ego.. gratification. ­
Polanski adds a twist to the question of motivation by making the Macbeths a young and sensual wuple, since he believed that a man could hardly be driven to such an act by a nag, as has traditionally been the interpretacion of the Macbeths' characters. In­stead, Lady Macbeth played by the beautiful 2 5 year old Francesca Annis, relentlessly driven by her own ambition, incites Macbeth to murder bv appealing to his male ego. · 
Macbeth is played by Jon Finch, whose film career got off the ground with this lead­ing role. (After being cast in Macbeth he was subsequently selected for a major part in Hitchcock's Frenzy.) 
The film will be shown tonight in the Engineering Auditorium at 7 and again at 
9:45. This controversial film, with its naked witches and majestic Scottish background is an unusual interpretation of Shakespeare's play, which adds, for those familiar with the play, some new topics of consideration. For those not familiar with the play, the film presents the story of a man and a woman driven to frenzy by ambition in a play often called the most adaptable of Shakespeare's plays to 20th century man. 
... Fission 
and trucks in heavy casks and any accident could release high amounts of radioactive elements and gases. 
At the present time we lack the needed technolo~y for properly disposing radiOactive wastes. Read tomorrow's article for more information on this subject. 
Reagan 
speaks tomorrow 
Notre Dame-Saint Mary's coordinator Greg Folley has announced that space available and standing room tickets will be distributed immediately prior to Republican presidential candidate. Ronald Reagan's speech tomorrow at 1 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditonum. Tickets will be given on a first come-first served basis, . as deemed acceptable by the Secret Service, for all seats not taken by 12:30 p.m. 
The former California governor will answer questions from the audience at the con­
clusion of his speech. 
Erratum 

Library questionaires have been distributed to all ND residents and undergraduate students. An item in the Friday issue of The. Observer incorrectly identified the parti­cipants of the survey. 
ROCCOS I 

men's and women's hairstyling at comfortable prices 531 N. Michigan 233-4957 
S.U. Aco.demic Commission 


ffiEL 
BLANC 
oiceofBugs Bunny, Potky Pig 
__, 
Daffy Duck••• monday Aptil 21 ;.t---8:00 p.m.__... 
~----Free 
Libtaty Auditorium
Spcnsoted by 

\ 

The Observer -Sports Monday, April 21, 1980 -page 6 
Molarity by Michael Molinelli Baseball 

Doonesbury 
I {)()N'T Btl/~ I THOU6HT 
!HIS. 7H£Y'Vl3 't01/f1SIAKJRN 5!iNTM~ 86HT OFF OF RE­1CAS6 OF VOP-t/NION /JU7Y, 
• KA Fc:Jii: 70N16HT. MM.CUS.
"





' 
ACROSS  30  Climbing  52  Excel  12  Synopsis  
1  Vandal, lor one  31  plants Chaotic  53  Having trembles  13 16  Naps Most loyal  
8 14 15  Meadows: Sp. Segregate Narrate  33  conditions Couple's little home  55 56  Wire measure Oblitera­ 21 24  Poor sub­stitutes Jacob, the  
17 18  Clad Landlord, at times  35 37  Styling of clothes Sack lor  . lion 58 Relating to the skull  ' 26 28  sculptor Undershirt Scorches  
19 20  Gypsy horse Coated with crumbs  40  groceries Annoy in the street  60 61  Altar screen Pact  30 32 34  Poison Kinsman Vitality  
22  Costello or  44  Ridge on  between  36  Owning  
23  Gehrig Sunder  45  a column Brownie  62  nations Second  no real property  
25 26  Himalayan country· Bulk  47 48  Taxi dev1ce Treasury agents  63  showings on TV Kelp  37 38  Smooth line· of talk Maker of  
27  An1mal fat  49  Expert  guns  
29  Wise crack  51  Po1 source  DOWN  39  Get ready  
1  Schematic  41  Bunting  
2 Sitting on  fabric  
3  a horse Incentives  42  Arranged in a group  
4  MacGraw  43  Sang  
of mov1es  mernly  
5  Cloth1ng  46  Sharp  
6  Deathless,  flavors  
old style  49  Brother  
I  Cash in  of Moses  
trading  50  Tin-lead  
stamps  alloy  
8  Preying  53  Deer of  
creaiure  Chile  
9  Carouse  54  Facts  
10  Corros1ve  57  Hom1ly:.  
liquid  abbr.  
11  Med1co  59  Fresh  

SUMMER STORAGE Master Mini-Warehouses 
683-1959 
or 
683-6889 
-at the state line on US 31 -about 2.5 miles north of campus 

NATIONAl lEAGUE 
THEY HAVE Tt> DO IT 
East
IN PUBUC PLACES... 
w L Pet. GB
THEIR C.NI6 ARE 100 

Pittsburgh 6 3 .667 Chicago 5 3 .625 Vz Montreal 4 4 500 1Vz Philadelphia 4 4 500 1Vz St. Louis 4 6 .400 2Vz New York 3 6 .333 3 
Wast w L Pet: GB Cincinnati 10 1 .909 Houston 7 3 .700 2Vz San Diego 6 5 .545 4 Los Angeles 4 7 .364 6 San Francisco 4 7 .364 6 Atlanta 1 9 .100 8Vz 
Saturday's Games Philadelphia 13. Montreal 4 St. Louis l. PittsburQh 1 Chicago 12. New York 9 San Diego 3. San Francisco 0 Cincil'f)ati 6. Atlanta 1 
Houston 2, Los'Anoeles 0 , Sunday• sG_amas 
. by Gary Trudeau 
Montreal?, Philadelphia 6 
. Pittsburgh 6, St. Louis 3 Chicago 6, New York 3 Cincinnati 5. Atlanta 3· 
tJH-HUH. P./Hitr tf/W-, UK& 71/mav. 


Los Angeles 4. Houston 2 
San Francisco 5, San Diego 1
50RTOf£Xll!A5 J F/Nl1 !HAT I 

Monday's Games Pittsburgh (Candelaria 0-1) at Montreal (Grimsley 0-0) _, New York (Burris 1-1) at P~iladelpllia (Carlton 2-0), (n) ' Cincinnati (LaCoss 2·0) at Houston '(Ryan 0-0). (n) · · San Francisco (Blo J) at Los Angeles 
ARt fl./£3 7AtK-CAN MAJ<& {)() 

..------------------------------------------------..• Detroit 
The Daily Crossword 

© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

HAIR DESIGNS FOR THE AWARE MAN AND WOMAN 
SPECIAL OFFER 
Free Redken Shampoo and ·Conditioner With any haircut 
. $3sovalue ~DKEN Through April 30 MON,TUE,WED ONLY 
00~ 

8:10-~·00 lfof an Appointment,I
Mon.  .Thurs. 8:30-8:30  
Tues. wed.  8·30-~·11' 8 30-6 30  Fri. Sot.  8·30·6·30 8 oo-4 oo  Call 234-6767  

/Hooton 1-1), (n) Only games sc~ '~d 
.1CAN LEAGUE,. 

East  
W  L  Pet.~  
Boston Baltimore Milwaukee Toronto New York Cleveland  5 5 4 4 4 2  4 H 4 4 6 6  """  .556 .500 .solf .500 .400 .250  
2  8  .200  

Wast 

W  L  Pet.  
Oakland  B  3  .727  
Chicago  7  3  .700  
Texas  7  3  .700  
Seatfle  7  5  .583  
Kansas City  5  5  .500  
Minnesota  5  7  .417  
California  4  6  .400  

Sunday's Games Kansas City 9, Detroit 6 Chicago 9, Baltimore 6 New York 9, Milwaukee 5 Boston 6. Texas 5, 11 innings Toronto 5, Cleveland 3 Oakland 6 8, C~lifornia 1-2 Minnesota 4, Seattle 3 • 
Soccer 
Division I 
Walsh 3-0 Badin 2-1 Holy Cross 2-1 McCandless 1-2 Lyons 1·2 SMC FaCIII'/ 0·3 
Division II 
;O-C 1-1 (1 forfeit) LeMans 1·0 (2 forfeits) Regina 0-2 
GB 
112 
1/2 1/2 11/2 21/2 31/2 
GB 
1/2 1/2 
1112 
2112 31/2 31/2 

ASummer in China Sponsored in part by the Republic of China . For 
American Students. Includes one month of udying Chinese 
language, culture and htseein Only $2950 Deadline for apps. April 30, 1980. Contact Prof C.M. Hsieh, 115 W oodshire Drive Atts, Pa. 15215 
412 7823095 

\ 

_I 
-~-­

• 
. 
~ 
Bookstort-

Clinton Core's Cagers over Schlongs by 
9 
Stoney Lee ...over Coke and a Smoke by 
3 Dillonese S.W. over The Doctor ...by 9 Purple ...over Hoyne's Mobsters by 6 Back for More over Col Bogey's ...by 4 Classified Nads over Doobies ...by 16 
P.F. & the Flyers over J.V. Cain ...by 12 Defending Chum ps over D.U.'s & l Spu's by 13 
Assassins over Stevie Wonder ...by 8 Band of Drunken J over Dr. Dud ...by 2 Mutnats...over Digger & the Fina Four 
by 12 Vassar Arafat over Gramps ....by 4 Wiley 'Brown ..over Stabbed in the 
' 
Back by 7 Return to Sweetness over Lam bchops by 5 
Irish Guards Ill over Bye by 12 Much later W.E. B over Cowboy Spit­
ter...by 18 Born to Run over N.D. Gigolos .by 12 Carver High over Golden ...by 5 · Roemer's. Narcs...over Hurtin' by tl 
Knack, Wack ...over Cogan's Heroes by 2 
Rosie's School>..over Muscle Spasms by 13 ·~Dr. Dunk over Munson & TP by 2 
•· This ls ...over Action's Groupies by 9 ' ­: Nicker 2vesters over Det. Siagon ...by 5 Honk Haley over S.O.M.F.B. by 5 
f' Hill's Angels over Second Best by 12 Probation over Oil ion's D.B.'s by 5 Instant 0iarrhea over Blitzkried by 9 Coneheads over The Backcourt Gener­
al ...by 7 Dismal bllt Dar1ng over F. M .... by 2 The Wrecking Bal I Crew over Harry's.. 
by 11 
Elton Moore yver Eas)' Living Paint's Final Coat by 2 . Humour...over 0escartes .... by 15 
The Irish Guards S---...over 4 Hankies 
by 4 SMC ...over Money in the Bank by 10 Sean Celia ...over Doubtful by 7 The Cheaters ~ve r Maybe We'll Win 
One ...by 6 Mitch's & Rich' s ... over the Bruno Cruisers by 8 Strappamasquaon ...over Team Canni­bus by 10 Nebo Giants over US Olympic Team by 
4 Smirks o~er The Persuaders by 6 Incredibly Edibles over Mr. Roger.s .. . 
by 7 Jackson less Five over Calvin Murphy.. . by 15 AI McGuire ...over Aggravated Assault by 8 
, 
White Shadow over Zip & Cocoons by 11 
Dribbling...over Geek's Freaks by 
(OT 29-27) Suits over Where's McKenna by 9 US over Chuck Connor by 6 
J. Kennedy over Panama Red by 10 Buzzards over Iron City...by 5 Morgan's...over Physicians...by 9 Johnny Snotball 's over Surrender by 6 Nutmeggars over Asphalt 5 by 9 McNamara ·s Band over Drewbies II by 
2 (OT) . Theo & the H M over Tapped out 5 by 2 Wiz Kids over Go ... by 7 Head over Heals over Queen City by 14 Boy 2 over Another Brick by 3 Sir Vic's ...over Moses ... by 8 
· lights Out over AlA by 3 3 O'Clock Shooters over Thunder Lizards by 5 
Women's Division· 

· The Smucks over _Beautiful Bruisers by 6 
Jo's Call Girls over 5 Damsels in Distress bv 16 ::Jribbling Uvulas over Blue Wave by 2 BJ's Blowoffs 9ver They Came From P.lanet Claire by 20 • Title IX and The Tens over TGIF by 5 Basic Five Hundreds over Baser1rent Beauties by. 20 
One Varsity Player and Four Girls Who Couldn't Make The Team over Brazen Hussies by 18 . 
Title IX Compliance or Cosmetic Surgery over Kelly Hicks by 2 The Bean Hayeds over The Swanzers 
by 18. • Total Class over The Walsh Wombatsts by 18 . i . We Try Harder over Five From Four by 16 -' . Looney Roonies & Co. over Danish De­lights by forfeit , Dunkin 1-Wish over Totally Hot by 21 Hot· Stuff over FLOC by 14 · flyan 's Hope over Pure As. The Driven Snow by forfeit · 
Maryjo Kopechne & The Orink'n Drown Crew over All The Kings Women by forfeit ( 
Basketball 
NBA PLAYOFFS 
Western Conference Semifinals 
Best-of-Seven 
Sunday's Game 

Seattle 98, Milwaukee 94. Seattle wins series 4-3 
Easter Conference Final 
Best-of-Seven 
Sunday's Game 

Boston 96, Philadelphia 90. series tied 
1-1 
Classifieds 
Notices 
Will do typing. Neat, accurate. Call 287-5162. Thank you. 
Professional ty ping. Reasonable rates. Experienee typing thesis, journal articles. 291-0495. 
. 
Typing done in my home. University Park area. 277-3085. 
Professional Typing Service any size job, accurate, prompt, dependable. Term papers, reports, manuscripts. Barron Services, 1408 Elwood, South Band, 289·7949. 
Typing Plus. Term papers, theses, dissertations. l.ight editing, ghost writing. L1terary search, bibliogra­phies, genealogies. Job resume service. Sliding rate scale based on lead time. Special discounts on full contracts for theses and dissertations. Adrdvark Autom atic Solutions, P.O. Box "1204, 46624, ~hone (219)­283-6753. 
Lost& Found 
Lost: Wallet in Washington Hall or area....Saturday evening. 10 includ­ed. Reward. Cal 18936. 
LOST: pair of silver-wire glasses in a Rreen case labeled Mom, in Business ldg. Call Kathy 6793. 
LOST: Blue AI pine backpack with im~ortant notebooks and texts. Lost be ore break. Re ward! Call 3324. 
LOST: Timex goId face and trim watch 
with a brown wristband. Call 3234, 
ask for Bob. 
LOST: a pr. of glasses, if found call Kathy 410~. 
ForRent 
For summer. Pleaunt apt. fir one. Good nall:borhaod. 
CIOH, swimming pool. $1 /mo, Phone 6515. 
.. . .. 
Off campus housing ... 6 bedrooms (with locks) rented separately. Free laundry and kitchen. Superior rated. Available for summer and fall. 291-1405. 
House for rent near Notre Dame, 2 bedrooms, alum. sliding garage, re­ferences and security deposit. Call 233-9088. 
Rooms-now and/or summer. $40 month. 233-1329. 
Several houses for rent, summer only. Reasonable. Rates will be negotiable, depends on number of students. Call Greg Cress after 7 at 287·5361. 
Wanted 
WANTED: yearbook--any recent non­Notre Dame yearbook. Call Tim, 288-6748. 
Goalie, two players needed for spring soccer team. Call 2n-4482 or 283-6614. 
... Urgent: Wanted--one bassist and one mal? Why is Conrad only a single lead vocalist, male or female., for rock "W.O."? What does Sue know about band (Stones, Zep, Rush, Beatles). 'To "W.O."? Is Lem reall~ sterile? Why start immediately. Call Dan or Jack at wouldn't Beth snuggle.1766. NOW. Does Toots really have cold feet? Does Lisa get the
Females to share local house for this munchies late at night? Why wassummer. Erin 6967. 
Chris always smiling? Does Marti know why Chris was smiling?
Overseas Jobs--Summer/year round. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, 
1980 "Winter Olympic" Marlboro
etc. All fields, $500-1.200 monthly. 
ranchcoats for sale. An amazingExpenses paid. sightseeing. Free 
buy-$22.00. Mens, womans sizes.
information write: IJC, Box 52-14, 
Call 283·1430, 288·5891 evenings.
Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. 
Attention Long Islanders, desperately!! Mick 8212 S$$$SS 
I need 1 maaslay graduation ticket 
Thera will be an important meeting for 
tha Long Island Club on Tues., April Looking for a female to share an ?2 at 6:30 pm in tha Little Theatre of apartment in Washington. DC this LaFortune--elections will ba held. 
summer. If interested. call Therese 
Anne 7920. Applications for homecoming chair­man, Nazz bu~iness manager, and 
Hazz director are available In the Student Union Office.
For Sale 
Yoclus is Atroclus. 
... Bookstore 
[continued from pa&e B) 

sensation Chdck Tasch: Tasch collected two singles, a double and a triple rocketing his aver­age to .451. <, 
Mike] amieson, Dave Barrish and Greg Rodems eadh added a p-air of hits to the 14-hit attack. Rodems and Tasch alsd contri­buted two RBI's apiece. . 
Starting Pitcher Mike Deasey entered. the final inning having retire the previous ten hitters. Deasey and his 1. 29 era quickly fell into trouble as the Flyers pushed across six runs. Dea­sey, now 4-1, gave way to Timmy Hnadrich, who retired two of rhe next three l-itters to save the game. 
In game two the Irish jumped our ro a 10-l advantage only to see the lead vanish after four Dayton homers . 
ship. Footballer Lou Pagley (6-3) epitomizes the spirit of this team. Pagley, a "blood and guts" performer, would love to end hts Notre Dame athletic career on a winning note. All-Bookstore Paul Flood (6-0) is the team's most consistent scorer while ] eff ''the Doctor'' Hannapel serves as the team quarterback. Only 5-8, the Doc­tor lives up to his nickname by playing above the rim. Mike "Merkles" Morris and Matt "Doolin" Dolton complete the Flyers. Morris is a baseline strategist while burly Dolton is 
a rebounding demon. 
(5) Strappamasquon and His Combat Wombats III. .. Always laden with talent-plus, the 
Dan Szajko smacked a· first 
~inning, bases loaded triple .to snap a personal slump whtle sparking Notre Dame. Szajko connected on a second triple two innings later with two men ·aboard, lifting-his total to five RBI's for the game., Dan Voellinger, the Irish Cap­tain, contributed three bits and fou·r runs batted in during the ' nightcap. Voellinger's fi':al R.BI represented the game-wm­mng run. Bob Bartlett, Notre Dame's fourth pitcher of the game, was. creditfd. with his thtrd victory against one setback. "Sometimes it's just nice to win regardless of our perfQr­mance. Obviously we made. too many mental and physical mis­takes which have to be cor­re·cted, but I admire our tenac-
Wombats never seem able to crack the Final Four. This vear, with the addition of 6-2 Mike Courey and Willie Fessler to maintain the ball-handling, 
they might be able to win the 
big one. Courey, a .Jerry Sloan­
type player was afl-Iowa as a 
prep. Fessler, a reak scrapper, 
loves to drive to the hoop. Mike 
Pietrykowski (6-2) is the team 
veteran in charge of training 
rules. Pete Holohan and Greg 
Knafelc form an awesome one­
two scoring punch. Both Notre 
Dame football players were also 
all-state olayers. 
Editor~s Note: The remaining five teams wzll be reviewed in tomorrow's issue ofThe Obser­
ver. 
(continued from page BJ 

Crowe form an intimidating front line. Mike Boushka (6-3) loves to penetrate while older brother Dick is known for his unselfish play. Love was one of the final cuts from the varsity tryout this past falL Crowe and Small both hit the boards with plenty of intensity, making the team tough underneath. 
(4) P~F. and the Flyers IV... One of the few teams that has remained intact for four years, this squad has practically ate, drank and slept basketball· to­gether for that entire time. As a result, they play so well as a unit, that· they are a prime contender for the chamoion­
... Baseball 
ity  at  the  plate,"  said  Tom  
Kelly,  Notre  Dame's  head  
coach.  

VALPARAISO, Ind. (AP) ­Dan Szajko drove in three runs with a pair of singles and George lams addec two RBI with two doubles and a single Sunday, leading Notre Dame past Valparaiso 9-2 for a split in their college baseball double­header. . . 
Valparaiso won the opener 3-1 behind John Vail's six-hit pitching and game-clinching RBis by Ted Serbin and Mark Lemons. 
In the nightcap, the Irish offense was keyed by Szajko, lams and Dan Voellenger, who had four hits and one RBI. Notre Dame raised its record to 16-5, while the Crusaders fell to 
10-10. 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m.. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid."either in person or through the mail. 
'77 Camero, silver with black interior, small V-8 engine, AM-FM cassette, air conditioning. $3,000 or best offer. Call Mickey at 7838. 
1978 Camero, light blue, automatic. straight 6 cylinders, very good gas mileage, stereo 8 track, excellent condition only $3500. Call 277-2462. 
For Sale: 1978 Firebird Formula silver 
exterior with  appearance  package.  
Red  interior.  Loaded.  Excellent  
condition.  ca:l  41-4721  (AM)  and  

277-5338 (PM). 
For Sale: 2 tix for John Denver. Padded seats. Best offer. Chris 8102. Cathy 41·4430. 
Personals 
Attention women! Tomorrow is not only Earth Day, it's also someone's birthday!! Don't forget, Paul (that's Pawl) Somelofske's 19th. 
What really happened at Senior For· 
Stor bir , A girl could fall in love with your boucles.... 
Is Tony Crisafi the one and only gorgeous archie??!! I For more info, call 233-6208. 
Cucumber Kid, You done good. hon I 
Oly, I'm sorry I had such a wonderful time at your party without you! 1 Wanna settle up on Wednesday night??? 
Lynne, Happy birthday to a really great friend 1! 
Love, Jana 

To Jim (that sexy (et stiy photograJher on· first floor Stan ford) any chance of a little "reprint" rendezvous????!!! 
SM C Juniors: Vote Hill, 0·Brien, Stoll, Boyle for Senior Class officers Thursday April 24th. 
Today is AI Schumacher's 21st birth­day. Eligible females call 6931 and help him celebrate. 
AI, How does 21 shots sound?? Happy Birthday! 
Love, Lynn 

Jaybird,Hi-How-are-ya? Hi-How-are-ya? 
Kevin Finn, Time's running out, cupcake, bag the ladder, I'll jump. 
Sandra Nairn humbly requests the honor of your presence next sawday night when she "unwinds" after the Med-Cats at EVERY bar, pub, lounge and saloon in town. Bl: there! 
Has Rae Woodard •1et her match or wil• Jill blow Kim's little wedding scheme??? 
sM'c~-;;0'i~-------
Eiect: Hill, O'·Jrien, Stoll, Boyle on 
Yocius is Atrocious. 
Forget the hair, Forgt~t the dimples, Hussey's face is one big pimple, Hussey is UMOC. 
Indian, I love you. You said it's a1ways the personals or the sports page. (Editor· ial~ only on good heads.) Thanks for Sat. night. 
Love. Bear 

Wanted: One housemate for next year. Preferably a student with an interest in rock, jazz. and partying, a light course load; and some culinary skills. Sex not a factor. For details call 3588. 
Hank, Duff, and O'Connor (if you dare, Mike!) Come by for brownie delight sundaes on us. 
Gus, Wanna take a long walk in the woods tonite?? There are worse ways to 
go .... 
Angel face Joe. Looking Good '' 1 
Louise, Gonna do any work today??? 
J.J., Had a good time. will miss your face. kiddo ...hope the switch is all you hoped for. 
John, Would you like a glass of champagne on your birthdJy or a burrito? You have 13 days tr decide. 
Love, Little One 

Slyhive [You're burin'] and tha Family Stonad--gonna do it right Thursday? Eeaxxxxbbbeaee! I !II 
Yoclus is Atrocious. 
Jack K., I'll show you how. Your room. Tuesday 11 p.m. 
M.L. 

Be there Jack, aloha . 

Monday, Apri121, 1980 -page 8 
Snorts 
' 
' Gibbons adds insight 
to spring -workouts 
by Tom Gibbons 

When approached about writtng this column for The Observer. I thought it would be a good idea because of the importance of spring drills, espectally for a young squad such as ~·urs. Most people, including many players, don't -.eem Ill realize how crucial rr.ese pracrices are, but the .., lllll"..,.., pf next fall's season dt'p<"nd-. a grear deal on these four \\cck-.. 
Sitll c most rt'aders don't L••llt<· <~lit til Canit'r Field to take a l1 ··•k ,11 our practice sessions, I r ·tghr be able to provide a ··~tft•tt·ru insight on the room's r>~·ugrt·-.-. .Is we get ready for ''hat -.hapes up to be a very challt·nging 1lJ80 schedule. I'll .dso 11 y to point out some things wh1ch are often overlooked, such a!-. the kev contriburions made b\ I he assistant coaches tJOn-sch."l<~rship players and th~ ~rudenr managers and trainers. 

Tom Gibbons, a semor tn·­captain on the Fighting Irish football tea'm. gzves his thoughts on spn'ng footb~/1 
dnlls beginnin~ today with hzs column above. 

Spring drills are critical to any team's fortunes because of the learning that takes place and the experience that's gained. The freshmen, who were thrown into a whole new situation last fall, now have a full season under their belts and can become more familiar with the various responsibilities that go along with their posi­tions. All of the players, of 
Spring Football '80 

course, work on sharpening their skills and improving indiv­idual weaknesses. 
Besides the obvious goal of replacing starters from last year's ream that were lost to graduation, the coaches use ~pring drills i'_l an attemfr to tmprove certatn areas o the team's overall performance. For example, we have been spending a lor of rime working on goal line situations, both offensively and defensively. So far, the results have been very encouraging. 
'' . . . an attempt to improve certain areas ofthe team's overall' performance .'·, 

Reaching these goals is made more difficult by outside de­mands on both the players and the coaches. Late classes and labs, along with final exams in the near future, compete with football for the players' rime. But the coaches keep reminding us that academics are the main reason we're here. 
Between now and the Blue­Gold game, though, both foot­ball and studies will share the top spot on each player's list of 
priorities. 


Baseball team sweeps ;splits 
by Tim Prister Sports Wn'ter 

What do you get when you combine two super hitting teams and first 70 degree day of 1980? A furry-six fiasco as the Fighting Irish held off powerful Dayton bars with hot hitting of their own. Notre Dame swept the Flyers by scores of 13-8 and 13-12 on Saturday. 
Aided by seventeen base on balls offered by Dayton, the Irish were able to score in bunches. Three times the Irish pus_hed across five runs in o..ne mmng. Henry Valenzuela pounded a bases loaded home run in the opener to initiate the first Notre Dame rally. 
"It was a fastball up and in which is right where I like it," commented Valenzuela, who also singled in the .fifth inning to drive in RBI number five. ''Last year I went something like five for seven against Dayton. It's something that can't be explained, I just seem to h~~e good luck against them. 
Joining Valenzuela in the hitting barrage was sophomore 
.[continued on page 7) 

Bookstore's top ten selections 
b_y Leo Latz 

and able to crack the "Elite 
It's a little late, so one of the Eight". (Clinton Core's Cagers preseason favorites has already stunned our previous number­fallen our of the tournament, six selection, The Butcher 
bur this year's edition of the Brothers, in the second round.) "Bookstore Top Ten" has final­(1) Defending Chumps...Last ly arrived. This year's Bo6k­year's champions have added store tournament features the Bill Hanzlik. The 6-7 varsity largest field in tourney annl:'.l~, star could make the Chumps 
and as a result, morecompeuuve invincible despite the loss ·of reams than ever before. Book­all-Bookstore performer Tom store Basketball IX is truly "The Truck" McLaughlin. The 
anyone's tournament. mainstay of the Chumps has 
These picks were selected by always been 6-5 Tom "the Bookstore Commissioner Rob Oldest Gigolo'' Sudkamp. In Simari and myself. These are fact, some Bookstore experts only our predicted favorites; we believe Sudkamp has been are sure that there are plenty of playing in the tournament be­''darkhorses'' ready, willing fore it even started. 
Great action, weather highlights tourney 
b.y Frank LaGrotta Sports Wn'ter 
Boobt••rt· Basketball's annual "Booksrore Bonanza" rook piau· \'t'~ ·rdav as all 128 teams were in auion at all three
1 

rourn.wH·t;t si1~s. The weather was beautiful, the crowds 
wne !.1 rgt' and the basketball was some of the best ever 
played 111 .Ill)' lmnman tournament. 
The 1\IUt .tmt·nr'" number-one seed, Defending Chumps, pur on 1 Ia, ilu-.ter Jisplay to defeat Du's and Spu's 21-8. Gu;.rd , >.111 ..;hort paced the winners with six points in eight arrclllJ'I~ :no-.r corning on easy inside lay-ups that Du's simplr t '·ttld not ddend against. Chief Chump, Bill Hanzlik, ross<d 111 -.i.x pumrs, pulled down 12 rebounds and bwcked three -;hots. However, it appeared Hanzlik was having a bit ofrroHJhk with hi!-. outsidc-shot,something that cause some problems for his team in later rounds. 
Te.11n Laptam ·l·om :-,uakamp dropped four shots, garnered 10 rei ounds and dt"alt out eight assists. Rusty Lisch had five for r·1e Chumps, including some of the day's best ~ :.tm-dunks. 
Ou · s starred the game on a surprising note as they all :l<~llll<:d t·;\ltre Dame varsity practice jerseys that belonged to l'tm Healy (their R.A.). However, the strategy proved mdft:L ttve as they could manage only eight points. Chris Beamon's four points were tops for ~he loser. 
Tooy Hunter proved he can leap both on and off the football field as he pulled in 21 rebounds to le_ad the Assassins in 21-13 win over Stevie Wonder...Curt Ba1ley led the Assassins with nine points on 21 attempts while Hunter added four buckets. Steve Brown paced the losers with eight points and nine rebounds. 
In a score that registered on the Bookstore "Up~et Scale", Nebo's Giants defeated the U.S. Olympic Team, 21-17. 
Glenn Packard's eight points led Nebo's squad while 
teammate Pete Berg added six. Angelo Fasano hit six of 21 
for the Olympic team while Tim Huffman had four. 
The J acksonless Five had an ea,sy time with Calvin 
winning 21-6. Tony Anderson continued to be the big gun for 
the winners. yesterday hitting 10-of-16 attempts from the 
field. Tim Koegel, Mark Norman and Tim Tnpp each had 
three for the Jacksonless Five while Tom Kelly's three-for­
seven was the best Calvin Murphy could manage. 
Strappamasquon and the Combat Wombats had a rough 
time early, but then pulled away to defeat Team Cannibus II, 
21-11. Mike Courey led the Wombats with eight points while 
teammate Pete Holohan pulled down 10 rebounds and dealt 
our some pretty swift assists. Tim Palmer led the losers with 
five buckets in 15 attempts. 

The Classified Nads rook it right to the Doobies and won 
gqing away 21-5. Bo Ellis had eight for the winners who were 
also helped by Ken "Midget" Stack's only four of 22 shots 
for the Doobies. 

Jeff Hanni pel, Paul Flood and Mike Morris all had six 
points to lead P. F. and the Flyers to 21-9 win over J. V. 
Cain...-r:he losers boxscore showed balanced scoring too low 
to menuon. 

Tim Healy scored six points and pulled down 13 boards to l.:::ad Head Over Heels to a 21-7 third round win over Queen Lry. Bill Copeland had five·for the winners. 
Today's action begins at 4 p.m. on all three sites. Featured games include Defending Chumps versus Dillonese Skr.walkers (BooksrorelO, 5:30); Much Later W.E.B. versus Wtley Brown... (Bookstore 10, 5:30); P.F. and Flyers versus Dr. Dunk (Bookstore 9, 4:45); and AI McGuire and Air Craft Carriers verses Honk Haley (Lyons 12, 6: 1 5). 
"He's so old and slow, he's got to speed up to slow down.'' says Hanzlik hut, ''When we have to score we toss it to Tom, he can score at will.'' 
Notre Dame quarterback Rusty Lisch (6-4) is in his second year with the Chumps. Lisch St"ems to possess that magic element that is necessary to caprme •he l3ooksrore ride. The Belleville, ltl. native snared his first Bookstore crown in 1978 with Jeff Carpenter as a member o(Leo's Last. A senior, Lisch added his second ride last spring and is eager to make it three. (It is interesting to note that six of the past eight Bookstore Basketball Cham­pions have included a varsity quarterback as a member of their five-man squad.) Dan "Woody" Shorr (6-3) and Chris "Ape" Muhlenkamp round our the Chumps. Shorr is a fine all-around basketball performer and Muhlenkamp, a former foorballer, adds more power to the already strong inside game. 
(2) 
Much Later W.E.B... This squad also boasts champion­ship credentials. The Web team has two interhall champ;on­ships to its credit and is hungry for the Bookstore title~ The all-Howard ''five'' has the best chance since Larry's Laundry­men of 1979 to capture the crown without the services of a varsity athlete. Kevin Dix (6-1) is the club leader and handles the ball most of the time. Freshman Bob Keenehan (6-2) is the new addition and holds the other guard spot. Jim Dolezal (6-2) and Andy Htcks (6-5) are a pair of hot-shooting wing men while 6-6 Paul Mazanec controls the back­boards. The team's strongest point is their team play. 

(3) 
AI McGuire and His Aircraft Carriers...The name is certainly appropriate as this is one of the tallest teams in the tourney. The Boushka Brothers (Mike and Dick) comprise the backcourt while 6-8 Eric Small, 6-6 Carl Love and 6-5 Pete 


[continued on page 7] 

~.~._._._._._~,~.~----~.-..-.-.-~~------.-.-sm-..-.-.-.-.-.--..-.-.-...-.-.-~.-.-.-~~~~~~ 
( 


