·~-------­
.. 
--------~------­
, , , Mayday -page 7 


VOL. XIV. NO. 77 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1980 

Guardsmen recapture New-Mexico prison 
SANTA FE, N.M. (AF') -about 25 defiant inmates holed National Guardsmen and a JP in the admin;stration build­police SWAT team recaptured ing began shouting at the the burning New Mexico State officers, the Guardsmen fixed Prison yesterday to free all ~:he their bayonets.remaimng hostages and end a ''Shoot us,'' one of the convicts 36-hour bloodbath that left at yelled. "We ve got no guns."least 27 inmates dead and 50 A short time later, Corrections persons hospitalized. Commission Chairman Bud 
State Criminal Justice Secre­Richards announced, "We're in 
tary Adolph Saenz said the control right now. Not a shot death toll had reached 27 "not has been fired.'' counting the gymnasium," Corrections officers said the which had bet:n burning for last three of the 15 prison more than 12 hours. employees originally taken hos­
''The violence was incredi­tage were found safe. Two ble,'' Saenz said. One of the guards were found in a gas prisoners was beheaded. chamber which is no longer 
There were earlier reports that used and a medical technician the gym had served as a funeral was found hiding in a vault. parlor for a large number of ''We are totally under control prisoners, but Deputy Warden and we have all the hostages," Robert Montoya said that was King said. "We are saddened an unconfirmed rumor. by the number of prisoners that 
A corrections officer, Fred we did lose -some to smoke and 
St. Mary 'sLake providedan area for weekendrecreation as these cold weather lovers used 
Herrera, said some of the dead some to other things.''
the ice to their advantage. [photo by lijD] ­
inmates had been mutilated, The governor said the death making it difficult to identify count may go a little higher, but them. ''not to any of the numbers we

From Congress "Some of these guys' faces have heard. ' ' 
are total! y gone," he said. State Sen. Manny Aragon of . "There's nothing to identify." Albuquerque, who met with Asked whether he was talking prisoners during the negotia­
FBI probe implicates officials 
about disfigurement from fire tions, said that based on what or rumored mutilation he said, the inmates told him the death 

WASHINGTON (AP)--FBI defense against conviction. ed some of the ostensible "It's from the prisoners." toll could go to 75 or more. "I director William Webster and To wage a successful entrap­bribery transactions, including Gov. Bruce King said he wouldn't doubt it," he replied top Justlce Department lawye.rs ment defense, atorneys must some in an expensive house in agreed with the plan to send in when asked if that were pos­closely monitored the bureau's prove the law enforcement of­the fashionable Georgetown the troops despite threats that sible. 
largest political corruption in­ficer instigated the crime and section of Washington. "When the hostages would be killed. Aragon said there were "quitevestigation to avert charges of that the defendant was not the videotapes are shown, it'll Without firing a shot, about a few bodies'' reported inside entrapment as the probe impli­~:>therwise predisposed to join in prove there wasn't entrap-100 Guardsmen and policement the prison gym which was still cated eight members of Con­Jt. entered the grounds at 1:45
[continued on page B] [continued on page 5]
gress, sources said. But one source said, ''The FBI P.M. MST. When a group of 
Sources said the FBI never undercover men never were the was the first to suggest bribes first to suggest bribes to the to the public figures and that subjects. Originally, they East Asia videotape evidence will show weren't even investigating pol­there was no entrapment. itical corruption, but running a 



Brzezinski analyzes situation
Code-named Operation Ab­phony fencing operation for scam, the investigation used stolen art, stocks and bonds. ISLAMABAD, Pakistan (AP)-the beginning of the United terms of the 1959 (mutualundercover FBI men posing as Informants and lawyers who U·~-':lational st;curity ~dviser States response to the threat secu~ity) agreement against the representatives of an Arab came to them brought in of­Zbtgntew Brzezmsk1 satd ye_s-posed" by Soviet troops in (Sov1~~) da~ger from the sheik offering bribes to win a ficials seeking bribes.'' terda~ the proposed $4~0 mtl-Afghanistan. . north, he satd. casino gambling license and As another protection against lion 10 U.S. economic and "The United States is commit-After two days of talks here other favors. entrapment, the FBI videotap-military aid to Pakistan is "only ted to safeguarding Pakistan in with Pakistan President Zia 
At least 20 public officials and Ulhaz, Brzezinski told reporters 10 lawyers and busmessmen ''Pakistan faces a serious were implicated over 14 threat'' from the Soviet pre­
months, a source familiar with sence in neighboring Afghanis­the investigation said. tan.

jazz Festival selects entrants
The source, who asked not to Brzezinski did not indicate if be named, said that FBI agents the two sides had reached 
paid out almost $500,000 in byJane Barber University, Alabama University, Purdue Univer­agreement on the size . of the 
cash to the officials, although U.S. aid package to Pakistan.
sity, Northeastern Illinois University,Michiganfewer than 10 of them took This year the Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz State University, University of Wisconsin at Last week, Zia called the $400 money. Festival will be held March 21 and 22. Milwaukee, New England Conservatory, Univer­million in military and economic 
"Some arranged meetings or sity of Akron and Ohio State University. aid "peanut~." Pakistan and
Established in 1959, this will be the twenty­did other favors,'' the source 
second edition of the oldest and largest, and As always, prizes will be awarded to individual the United States have had said. possibly the only festival o_f its kind. performers, not to schools C<JIIectively. Last strained relations in recent In addition to state and local year, fifteen individuals from various colleges years over a cutoff in t;.S. 
officials in New Jersey and The Festival is sponsored by the Cultural Arts 
were commended. military supplies and Amencan Commission of the Student Union, and is a
Pennsylvania, the source said As in the case of the Midwest Blues Festival, criticism of Islamabad's nuclear 
non-profit event to promote jazz education at the
those who became subjects of the alloted budget for the Jazz Festival was cut ambitions.
collegiate level. The 1980 Festival is chaired by
the probe were: U.S. Sen. this year. Because the festival is still in an early Brzezinski added that while 
Stan Huddleston, with Fr. George Wiskirchen
Hamson A. Williams, Jr., D­stage of planning, the full extent of the effect the United States is willing to
serving as Faculty Advisor. 

N.J ., and U.S. Reps. John M. that the lost funds will create is still indefinite. provide a sizeable amount of 
Billy Taylor, a versatile pianist and composer,
Murphy, D-N.Y.; Frank It is certain that there will be no guest band aid to Pakistan, "We hope that 
and Tony Williams, a jazz drummer, are the two
Thompson, Jr., D-N.J.; performing this year as has been the custom in other -countries also will indi­
judges chosen thus far of the six that will be
Michael 0. Myers, D-Pa.; John past festivals, because of the lack of money to cate what they wish to contri­
selected. Applications were sent out to
W. Jenrette, D-S.C.; John P. hire one. bute.''
thirty-five college jazz bands who were asked to
Murtha, D-Pa., and Richard The schedule for Friday night, March 21, Congressional action on the 
send tapes of their performances to the Jazz
Kelly, R-Fla. consists of performances ·by ftve of the aid was being delayed about a 
Festival committee, which consists of thirteen
Those contacted denied any competing bands and a jam session for the six week, he said, while Washing­
students who are various department heads.
wrongdoing. judges. ton consults with other nations Sources said that Webster and Of the twenty-fiv<~ groups that replied, ten On Saturday, March 22, there will be two in the region -apparently ·a Assistant Attorney General ensembles and five !COmbos were selected. The competiti()n sessions for the participating bands. reference to Indian concern Philip Heymann watched close five combos are those from Notre Dame, the The JUdges deliberation and awards presenta­over the prospect of a heavily 
ly to avoid entrapment, which is University of Iowa, University of Wisconsin, tion will conclude the Festival that even:ng. The armed Pakistan, its traditioqal a frequent risk in undercover Ohio State University and Indiana University. cost of the weekend admission pass for the 
are Notre Dame, [continued on page~~

investigations and constitutes a The ensembles from Iowa Festival will be approximately $7. 50. 



~ National Guard bomber crashes near Canada· border 
PLATTSBURGH, N.Y. (AP) -An Air National Guard B-57 bomber has crashed in a sparsely populated area near the Canadian border killing the pilot a~d seriously inj~ring a crewman. The pilot, Capt. Robert \X. Noble, of Burlmgton, Vt., died in the Saturday crash, authorities said. A crewman, Lt. Col. Howard E. Travis, also of Burlington, was taken to a hospital in P!attsburgh where he v._as listed . in s~able condition. The vintage bomber of me Vermont Atr Nauonal Guard went down aboJUt 1:40 p.m., just south Qf the Plattsburgh Air Force Base here, al:·thoritie~ said. 
Americans support military in Gulf ifSoviets invade 
~ 
NEW YORK (AP) -Americans say they are willing to send 
, ~ ~ 
, 
U.S. troops to the Persian Gulf if the Soviets invade that region, the Associated Press NBC News poll shows. The public supports the thrust of the so-called ''Carter Doctrine'' put forward by President Carter in his State of the Union 
, ~ 
Mes~a~e in late January: . The poll found Americans almost as wdlmg to use U.S. mtluary power to defend the Persian
, 
, 
Gulf as they are to _defend _Western Europe. Sixty-four
, percent of those questtoned satd they favored sending troops, '·if the Soviets invade the Persian Gulf, where most of our 
, 
imported oil comes from." 
,
, 
r 


Man shoots nine people,. bar patrons subdue him 
EL PASO, Texas (AP)-A man opened fir~ ~ith a .22-calibre rifle in a crowded bar early yesterday, _ktllmg fiye _persons andwounding four others. Police descnbed the mctdent as the worst mass slaying in the city's history. The man was subdued by bar patron~ who h_eld h_im in the_ Starburst Lounge until officers arnved, poltce satd. _Invesug~tors_ say they have not learned a motive for the shootmgs, whtch ktlled two men and three women. ­
Russia releases Soviet dissident 's family to ,U.S. 
NEW YORK (AP) -The family of Alexander Ginzburg has joined the Sovtet dissident in exile in the United States. Ginzburg was among five dissidents released from Russian concentration camps last April and exiled in exchange for the freedom of two Soviet spies hdd by the United States. Irina Zholk'?vskaya-Ginzburg, the couple's two-sons, aged 7 and 5, and Gmzburg's 72-year-old mother arrived here Saturday. She .sa~d .she stay~d in the Soviet Union in hopes of convtnetng authonues to allow the couple's 19-year-old adopted son to leave. He remains in the Soviet military servtce. 

Weather 

~ostly sunny ~onday and i~creasing ~louds Tuesday. Htghs both days m the low to mtd 20s. Fatr Monday night. Lows seven to 12. 

CamP-_;_.u~s__ 
5-6::30 pm_YALENTINE CARNATION SALE, sponsored by badm hall tn SOUTH DINING HALL. deliveries made on feb. 14th. 
6:45pm ROSARY daily at GROTTO 
7:00pm Pl,JBLIC HEARING on h.e.w. issues. sponsored by mock republican convention platform committee. RM.l16 O'SHAG. 
9:00pm MEETING ohio farmworkers support committee. all welcome. LAFORTUNE BALLROOM. 
lO:oo l'm MEETING fellowship of christian athletes. discuss ton & reflection. DILLON CHAPEL. 
~------­


·~· ..--_ -. ·.-... ,. .... .,.,_.,... ,, 
!.... ·~ --.. • 

Monday, Febru~ 4, 1986 -page 2 
For students 
Defense fund increase cuts aid 
By Tim Vercellotti StaffReporter 
Many people applauded the increase in funds for the nation's defense in President Carter's recent budget proposal. What many of this approving public may not have known was that in order to make up for this rise in defense spending, no money at all was allocated to other programs. One of the areas whtch suffered this loss was student aid, specifically the National Direct Student Loan (NDSL). 
NDSL is a program operated in conjunction with schools across the country. Through this plan students can borrow money at three percent interest to help finance their education. In the 1979-80 fiscal year this program received 220 million dollars. Notre Dame students are currently receiving 1.4 million dollars from this program. 
Joseph Russo, Director of Financtal Aid at Notre Dame, expressed concern, but not apprehension about Carter's 1980-81 budget. One of his reasons is that this is not the first time that funds were not provided for the program. 
''I have been working in the Financial Aid office under three Presidential administrations, and something like this is usualJy included in the budget proposal." Russo said. 
Russo went on to point out that Carter's budget proposal is simply that, a proposal. "The budget is subject to Congres­sional approval; and by the time it gets throush the House and the Senate, It is possible that some legislator wilJ have gotten funds for the NDSL included in the budget.'' 
According to Russo, the fate of financial aid programs are decided through a lot of political maneuvering on Capitol Hill. 
The Observer has learned of two stories that serve to 
~The Observer_ 
Night  Editor:  The  John  
Smith  
Asst.  Night  Editor:  Teri  

Michielutti, Deirdre Murphy Layout Staff Jean Steinbrenner News Editor: Margie Brassil Editoniz/Layout: Ann Gales 
Sports  Layout:  Paul  
Mullaney  
Sports Copy Editor:  Michael  
Ortman  

TypistSY Kathy Murray, BilJ Swift, Beth Huffman, Marilyn Broderick EMT: Mike Galvin Proofreader: Rick Freedman ND Day Editor: Bob "Early Valentine" Bernoskie SMC D.zy Editor: Peggy Schneeman Ad Design: Dave Wood, Anne Fink 
Photographer: R.] .D. 
The Observer [USPS B 12111 is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacatlln Plflldl. The Observer is pubiisllld by till students Ill Notre 011111 IIIII Saint Mary's Cllllgl. Subscriptila lillY Ill purdlasld lor S20 per year l$11 per Slfllllttrllrom The Observer. P.O. blx Q. Nltl'l bam1. Indiana 411i66. s-..1 ciau "=J' Plid, Notrl 011111, In­
diana . 
The Observer is 1 l11llllblr If till Auoclatld Pl'lll. All itpildwttln rigfits 11'1 l'lllmd. 
illustrate Russo's point. According to the ·1978 federal budget, $15 million were allocated to the NDSL, how­ever, by the end of the fiscal year $310 milJion had been used tn the program. In another case in the 1976 fiscal year, no money whatsoever was appro­priated for student assistance, yet through various congres­sional bilJs, $320 million were utilize-d for financial aid. 
When asked why such a move would be made by the federal government in decreasing aid, Russo offered sev~al reasons. 
''Besides the move towards reduction offederal spending, a possible explanation might be the de-,ire on the. part of the federal government to 
consolidate its financial aid programs. There are many different scholarships and other types of funds, and this can make for a confusing situation. If some of those programs were cancelled, then it will be easier for the government to coordinate s.·udent assistance." Russo said. 
Russo conceded that delinquency in repayment of the loans is a problem. He does not feel, however, that this could be a reason for the federal cutback. 
In the event that no money is appropriated to the NDSL, Russo claimed that the situation would not be as bad as it first appears. 
''The NDSL program IS partially self-sufficient. Roughly one third of the money used in the program is co1lec­tion money, money coming from former students who are repaying their loans. Even if no funds vyere appropriated for the upcoming fiscal year, there would still be somethin~ in the 

program." Russo explamed. 
Russo went on to say that this 

money would be used to the 
fullest extent possible for those 
students currently receiving 
loans. Also, if need be, only 
these particular students will be 
digible for the NDSL the 
following year. 
Russo pointed out that an alternative to the NDSL is the Guaranteed Student Loan program (GSL). This type of the financial aid takes the form of a bank loan taken out by the student (with a maximum amount of $2500) repayable at seven per cent interest. "The GSLJrogram is a feasible form ofai for many students. In the event of an actual federal cutback, I would refer students to this program. Furthermore, ~iven the ocurence of a cutback tt would not be unreasonable to expect that the limit on the amount to be borrowed would be raised.'' Russo said. 
Russo repeatedly stated that while this cutback in student aid should be watched carefully, it is not a cause for great concern. He cited politics to support his feelings. 
''What goes on with regard to financial aid is dictated by politics. Politics being the art of compromise, I do not feel that this budget will be passed without some negotiation between Congress and the President.'' Russo explained. 
The Financial Director reminds students that before any aid, either NDSL or GSL, can be expected for next semester, students must file their Financial Aid Forms. These forms can be picked up in room 111 of the Administration building, and the deadline for filing them is April 15. 
rp, MOCK CONVENTION -~· Delegate Sign-Ups 
~ 



~:1 Wed. Jan 30-Tues Feb 5 
~rrr 

.; f~i! atSG Offices -LaFortune ' 

A SMC Dining Hall LeMans Lobby 


Hughes recruiters speak many languages: 
FORTRAN, laser, gallium arsenide, microwave, Comsat, fellowships, ADA (a dialect of Pascal), and more. 
Best of all, they talk your language. 
So have a talk about your future and ours. Ask your placement office when the Hughes recruiters will be r oncampus. 
~------------------, 
I I 
l HUGHES l 
I I 
L------------------J
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F 

The Observer Monday, February 4, 1980 -page 3 

Off-Campus Commission distributes crime survey 
by Mary Ellen Woods the South Bend Police, their landlords, and the Notre Dame 
According to Shannon Ne­Housing Office. ville, off-campus commissioner, The survey will also report on all off-campus students will the safety of off-campus hous­receive a crime survey by the ing and the role of the landlord end of this week. The survey is and the local police in maintain­an attempt to determine the ing or improving safe condit­extent of the crime against ions. Neville pointed to the off-campus students, and is survey, which asks for suggest­directed to graduate as well as ions for increased security in under-graduate students. students' houses and neighbor­
Neville stated that the Off­hoods. Campus Commission (OCC) is Prompted by Notre Dame attempting to dispel rumors professor Albert LeMay, a re­regarding off-campus crime. port of the survey will be "Our main purpose," Neville presented to the Notre Dame said, "is to assemble and administration, the Faculty organize valid statistics in order Senate, the Housing Office, and to analyze the extent of off­The Observer. Neville asks that campus crime.'' all off-campus students return 
"Many students do not re­the survey in order to present port crimes to the Police or the an accurate and complete pic­Student Housing Office. For ture of the problem of off­this reason, we cannot get an campus crime. She stressed Notre Dame's College Bowl team meets to discuss their upcoming competition. See story accurate list of crimes commit­that the survey may be an aid to below. [photo by R]D] ted against Notre Dame stu­Juniors who are looking for dents," Neville noted. In addi­off-campus housing for next tion, the Police Department year. College bowl· does not distinguish crimes ''The survey will enable us to against students from any other pin-point trouble spots which crime which takes place in a students may then avoid as they 
ND team to vie in championship
given nei~hborhood. look for housing for the coming The cnme survey asks stu­year," Neville said. dents to report any crimes of Neville asked that completed by Janet Rigaux 16 other teams going to the ied) is by winning, or doing 
which they have been victims. surveys be returned to the Senior StaffReporter college bowl championship in well, at a mini-week competi­Students should note if force Off-Campus Room in the LaFor­Huntington, West Virginia over tion. "We sent our all star was involved. They are to tune Student Center. There will The University of Notre Dame the weekend of Feb. 29 to team to St. Louis and they did comment on the assistance of be a box there for that pu-oos(> will be one out of approximately March 2. well there and so were invited 
The team representing Notre to the finals," Lombardo said. Dame is an all-star team con­
To prepare for the upcomingsisting of Dan Meuleman, Ed finals, Lombardo is having sev­
Academy Awards Bylina, Paul W eithman, Phil eral practice sessions with theHochul, and Phil Seasly (alter­team. "You cannot study fornate). The team was picked by these competitions,'' Lombardo 


Student Union presents film fest 
Peter Lombardo, the Notre noted. "So I am going to haveDame college bowl moderator. 

practice games to increase the 
by Kelli Flint sion, a division of the Srudeut Giovanni will speak in the According to Lombardo, there team's speed and accuracy in staffreporter Union, will be presenting such Library Auditorium on Feb­was not enough time to wait answering questions."
until Notre Dame had its finals

activities as a Jazz Festval, ruary 12. An Academy Awards film Senior Arts Festival, and the The Student Union will also be to enter a team. Therefore, Next weekend, St. Mary's is festival will be one of the Sophomore Literary Festival. sponsoring a Mardi Gras Valen­Lombardo picked the five best sponsoring the Midwestern 
contestants from all of the College Bowl Reginals. "I hopehighlights of the Student Hamel added that the Cultural tine dance, semi-formal, with a Notre Dame teams. "Three out St. Mary's wins next week­
Union's activities for this se­Arts Commission is not suffer­50's band. The theme of the end," Lombardo said. "Thenmester, according to Tom ing financial difficulties, and dance will be the "Jade 50's." of the five guys were on Notre Dame's championship team last we can all go to the finals
Hamel, director of the Student that the Sophomore Literary The Union is also trying to Union. Festival budget will not be cut. plan a trip, similar to :ast year and so were an obvious together.'' 
The Student Players will be semester's journey to see the choice for this year's team,"
The festival, which takes place March 3-8, will show an performing in ''The: Day They musical ''Annie in Chicago. Lombardo explained. 
VILLAGE GREEN HOUSE Academy Award winning film Kidnapped the Pope" April 17. The "Annie" trip was very There are two ways for a team 
NORTH VILLAGE MALL from each decade the award The Players last presented successful," Hamel said. "We to qualify for-the championship, 
U.S. 31 NORTH was presented, beginning with "Stop the World, I Want to Get are trying to plan one to the Lombardo continued. One way 
10% discount to students 
Off.'' Chicago Symphony, or possibly is to win their regional tourna­
Wings and concluding with 
except on sales or specials.
Patton. In conjunction with the Black another play.'' ment. The second way (which 
J.D. REQUIRED 

The Cultural Arts Commis-Cultural Arts Festival, Nikki Applications for Student Union is the way Notre Dame qualif-Director and Comptroller are available in the Student Union office through February 13.
Chicago Teachers Union 
GUADALAJARA



votes to strike today 
SUMMER 
CHICAGO (AP) -Members of was not an official strike since 

SCHOOL
the Chicago Teachers Union teachers had no obligation to voted by a margin of three to work without pay. 
University of Arizona offers 
one Sunday to go on strike The school system's 48,300 
more than 40 courses: anthro­
Monday morning, union Presi-employees got their paychecks dent Robert M. Healey said. . F:iday b~t the union and the 
pology, art, bilingual educa­
Interim School Superintendent ctty connnued to haggle over 
tion, folk music and folk 
Angeline Caruso said public two issues -restoring jobs of 
dance, history, political sci­
schools would be open despite teachers and aides which the 
ence, sociology, Spanish lan­
the strike. Chicago schools board had cut to save money 
guage and literature and in­
were open last week even and adding to the current year 
-------------~,----~---------, 
tensive Spanish. Six-week ses­
though teachers did not show the school days lost during the 
McDONALD'S I* BUY ONE GET 1 
up. ·walkout. 
sion. June 30-August 8., 
The vote was taken at the After 13 hours of waiting for 
of roseland IONE FREE :
1980Fully accredited grad­

union's first ~eneral member-the board's response to the 
uate and undergraduate pro­
ship meeting m eight years. final teacher proposals, Healey 
~~~n~rd~.. 

gram. Tuition $295. Room
Earlier, the CTU executive said the board members, board voted 60-0 to recommend ''would not restore the teachers 
and board in Mexican home, 
the strike. The union's 1,000-or teacher aides, or live up to 
$315. EEO/AA
member Board of Delegates our contract'' by restoring the 
.... 
G)

later voted 532-62 in favor of a days lost. 

Write 
a.strike. School board· president 


-
·c:

Guadalajara
Negotiations between the Catherine Rohter called 
("') 
~

board and the CTU broke down Healey's statement "most un­
Cl)


Summer School
Saturday. fortunate." Citing the deliv~r­
·­
~ 

Meanwltile the city staved off ed paychecks and the Ctty 
Robert l. Nugent 209 
a second crisis when the city C<?u!lcil's approval of a $206 
cleveland

University of Arizona
firefighters union agreed late mi_lho~. loan to the sc~oo!s, she 
Saturday to postpone a strike. sa1d there really 1sn t any 

Tucson 85721 
I BIG ~lfAC 1 I FEB4 thru 10, M I 
I 1980 J~~ +· t 
I

I* limit one coupon 1 per student ~coupon good only 1 at... 



1 McDONALD'S 
Healey said last week's walk-reason for our employees not to 

nd 1 of ROSELAND
(602) 626-4729
out, which began last Monday, work." 



M,.---------:-:~---L~29M!.Y!RIJ..Qr!D__~ 
J. '·· 
, r· I ·' .!:i "\': 
, 
r ~ 
,
, 
,r 
,
,
,
,
,
,
, 
' 
The Observer Monday, February 4, 1980 -page 4 
• • • Asia 
(continued from page I] 

foe. India and Pakistan have 
fought three wars in the last 33 
years. 

Brzezinski is scheduled to 
leave today for Saudi Arabia. 
Zia's foreign affairs advisor, 
Agha Shah1, read a joint state­
ment from the rwo delegations, 
saying the weekend meetings 
had resulced in "a full ex­
change of views ... '' 

Earlier yesterday, Brzezinski 
visited a refugee camp inside 
Pakistan and told hundreds of 
cheering Afghans: "You will 
prevail. .. because your cause is 
right. God is on your side." 
·'History bears testimony that no one has ever crushed the brave Afghan people. Remem­ber, you are not alone,'' he told the refugees, who responded with slogans of welcome and chants of ''Allah-o-akbar'' ­God is great. 
Brzezinski spoke at Sadda, 80 miles southwest of Peshawar. Sadda is a strategic post on the 800-mile Afghan-Pakistan bor­der. About 7,000 refugees live in the camp, some of the estimated 500,000 Afghans who have fled their homeland dur­ing three years of successive Marxist regimes. 
Brzezinski, Undersecretary of State Warren Christopher and Defense Department officials are on an official visit to assess Pakistan's security needs in the face of the Soviet intervention in Afghanistan. 
Brzet'inski, pointing to the snow clad mountains that form the bordor, told the refugees: ''The land over there is yours and you will go back there one day. 
"You will ultimately prevail, and you will have your homes and mosques because your cause is right. God is on your side," he added. 
''The Afghans should know that the entire world is outra8­ed over the developments 111 Afghanistan. Not only the Muslim world but also the Christian world is outraged. We all sympathize with you". 
Earlier, several Afghan elders told Brzezinski that their homes, mosques and villages 
• 




HOW TO 
GET-BETTER MILEAGE FROM YOUR CAR••• 
Obey the 55 mph speed limit. 

had been destroyed by "the alien and atheist regime in Afghanistan,'' forcmg them to flee. "They are bent upon destroying our religion.'' 
The elders said the Afghans do not want wheat, tents, medicines and other relief goods. but instead want arms and weapons to fight the Soviet tanks and planes. 
''The communists resort to indiscriminate bombing of our homes and villages," the elders said . 
The Soviets poured up to 100,000 troops into Afghanistan last Christmas. The troops backed the coup that toppled Hafizullah Amin and installed Babrak Karma! as president, then fanned out across the rugged countryside and began helping the Afghan forces bat­tling the anti-Kabul rebels. 

Brzezinski has met rwice with Pakistani President Moham­med Zia ui-Haq and is schedul­ed for a third session before leaving for Saudi Arabia on Today. 
The United States has offered $400 million in military and economic aid to Pakistan, but Zia labeled the two-year pack­age '·peanuts.'' Brzezinski now reportedly is seeking to assure Zia that the United States also wants a long-term assistance pact with his coun­try. 

Carter proposes charter to govern secret court 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Carter administration intends to propose that a new, secret court be given power to author-


Drive at a steady pace. 

"'· 

ize covert government intelli­gence agents to break into !lomes and offices and open mail of certain Americans. 
But with President Caner's proposal still at least five days from being made public, debate has already begun over just which Americans should be targets of such intrusions. 
The question is whether the government can act against any American believed to be an 
. agent ofa foreign power or only against Americans suspected of criminal activity. Another question is just how certain of that criminal activity the gov­ernment must be. 
The issue arises because Car­ter plans to propose, possibly as early as Fnday, a comprehen­sive charter to ~overn a wide range of activuies by U.S. intelligence agencies, including the CIA, FBI, National Security 
Agency and others. In his State of the Union message last month, Carter said that because of increased U.S.-Soviet ten­sions he wanted to loosen restrictions placed on rhes•! agencies after abuses by them came to light in the 1970s. 
Housing extends due date 
The deadline for housing con· tracts has been extended until 
5:00 PM today. Contracts are to be turned in at the Housing Office on the third floor of the Administration Building. 
NDto hold Senior Arts Festival 
The Notre Dam~ Senior Arts Festival will be held Aprill3-19 at locations around the campus. All seniors from Notre Dame and St. Mary's are encm.:raged to participate. Enquiries con· cerning projects should be d1r· ected to the following people: Kevin Paulson, (1553) drama; 
Dave P!'"rry, (8836) writings; Liz Bathon, (277-3288) film; Bruce Richardson, (283-1354) art work; Rick Burr0ughs, (769~) architecture; Laura Sisson, 
(1674)  music;  and  Chris  Le  
Blanc, (1327)  dance.  
For  further  information  call  

chairwoman Kim Gumz at 7977. 

..... .... .-... -..-. -.........-. -.., ..... ·-........ ~ . .. . ... ... ... .. 


----------~---~-----­
' 
The Observer Monday, February 4, 1980 -page 5 
Shah's 'crimes' 
United Nations proposes study 
(AP) -Iran has agreed to set up an international commission that will consider alleged crimes of the deposed shah and ''will be effective in solving the hostage crisis,'' a Foreign Ministry spokesman said yes­terday. 
Establishment of the commis­sion, proposed by U.N. Secre­tary-General Kurt Waldheim, has been approved by Iranian leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini as well as the ruling Revolutionary Council, said the Foreign Ministry spokesman, Nassirosadat Salami. 
A spokesman for the militants1reached by telephone at the embassy, said he was aware of the council's decision, announc­Saturday night, but declined immediate comment. A state­ment might be issued later, the spokesman for the militants said. 
Yesterday was the 92nd day of captivity for approxima~ely 50 Americans held by Islamic-mili­tants at the U.S. Embassy since it was seized on Nov. 4. Three other U.S. diplomats have been held since then under virtual house a_rrest at the Foreign Ministry.· · 
The militants have said re­peatedly they will not release the hostages until deposed Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, living in Panama, is returned ~y the United States to stand mal on char,ges of corruption and mass murder. ­
The Foreign Ministry spokes­man did not say when the commist'iion would come to Tehran nor when hearings would begin. Its members would be selected by Waldhein and would include Iranian and foreign representatives, Salami said. 
He said it would be Wald­
heim 's decision whether to 
include U.S. representatives 
among the group. He refused 
to confirm or deny reports that 
Waldheim soon would visit 
Iran. 
Added the Foreign Ministry 
spokesman: "The international 
commission will be effective in 
solving the hostage crisis." 
, , , Prison 

[continued from page 1] 
burning hours after police re­gained control. Asked if he knew of any prisoners being mutilated, Aragon said, "There's a lot of awful stuff in there." 
State Sen. Ben Altamirano said he saw one Black inmate who had been decapitated and Corrections Division Director Felix Rodriguez said some of the dead inmates were "un­recognizeable.'' 
Deputy Warden Robert Mon­toya dismissed as "rumor" a report that some bodies had been stacked up in the prison gym and burned. He said many of the inmates were ''hysterical when. they came out.'' 
King said he agreed to try force because, "We just felt we reached that point. We have the hostages released or we know where they are," the governor said. 
The governor said fire trucks also were sent to the smoulder­ing compound where fires torched by inmates caused an estimated $10 million in dam­age. 
EarLit:r,. as -smoke continued-to 
News of the corrimission came late Saturday following a lengthy meeting oflran's ruling Revolutionary council. After the session, council spokesman 
Hassan Habibi said ''the inter­national investigation commis­sion will consider the shah's crimes, his violation of human rights and the return of his wealth to Iran." 
The militants announced Saturday they had invited a special American delegation to Tehran this week Ito hear Iran's grievances against the shah and the U.S. government. The State Department in Washing­ton said it knew nothing of such 

Farm Labor Organization calls for campus boycott 
by Brendan Brown 
Representatives of the farm L'abor Organization Committee (FLOC) met last Friday with Fr. John Van Wolvlear, Vice-Pres­ident for Student Affairs, to discuss details for a referendum ' 
~0e~ta~'dmfibb;~~~ci~c~t_camp-
The FLOC is working to gain · 
~~i;~s £~~o~7~t:~~t r~:!n h~o~k~ 
ers. According to the FLOC, Campbell and Libby affect the migrant wirkers wages and working conditions when buy­ing produce from the farm owners. The boycott is design­ed to pressure Campbell and Libby to in turn pressure farm owners to recognize the migrant workers' union. 
According to Fr. Van Wolvlear rules to inttiate the referendum were discussed. Representa­tives from Campbell and Libby and the FLOC are required to present their views. In the event that Campbell and Libby fail to participate in the debate the FLOC would have to prove that an ''honest attempt was made'' to enlist their participa­tion before the referendum would appear on the ballot. 
The referendum was originally proposed last spring but failed 
billow from some prison build­ings and demonstrators milled outside the prison gates with 
signs saying, "No More . At­ticas," Warden Jerry Gnffin said officials had assured the riot ringleaders, "We're not storming the place.'~ 
The rioters, who released the hostages one by one until only 

. seven remained in captivity yesterday morning, had threat­ened to kill them all unless their demands for better living condi­tions were met. Officials said yesterday after­noon another body had been found, bringing the death toll to at least eight. Griffin said yesterday morning more than half of the prison's 1, 136 inmates surrendered after revolt leaders said any who wanted to could leave. National Guardsmen and pol­ice ringed the perimeter of the prison, with its concrete walls were blackened by fires set by rioters. . .. 
The warden said he had no idea" how high the death roll would ~o in this the w?rst prison not in th~ country s~nce the revolt at Atttca state pnson 

i(l. "\V.~§i.fY..Q.~ 4~.1$..i!_l.~~7JN.-••.....___._,........_ 
a trip. 
Wnting in London's Sunday Times, Egyptian journalist Muhammed Heikal said that after the commission arrives in Iran, the hostages would be "kept in Tehran in the custody of a third party. Th ~ United States wquld have access to them and be responsible for their health and welfare.'' 
There was no immediate com­ment on Heikal's report by either U.S. or Iranian officials. 
During a visit to Iran in early January, Waldheim said he was willing to form a group of some sort to study Iranian complaints against the deposed shah. 
to take effect when fifty percent of the student body did not vote. The referendum will be reintroduced during student go':ernment elections this spnng. 

' -:• 

Ireland solicits support_of students for coalition against draft registration 
by Bndget Berry 
Seven students have joined the ND-SMC coalition against registration for the draft since Feb. 1 when Pat Ireland solicited support through the Personals. Accroding to Ireland, response has ranged from support to irresponsible, "t-shirt jargon" harassment. 
As he ts uncertain about organizing the movement, Ireland prefers to begin with a core group of only ten students. 
They will attend the meeting of the Midwestern Coaltwn Against Registration and the Draft (CARD) in Kalamazoo on February 16. 
Although the ND-SMC coali­tion will not be officially affiliated with CARD groups, Ireland said that he hopes to work closely with them. The coalition's goals will be to inform the student body of the implications of the reinstate­ment of the draft. 
According to Ireland, the Notre Dame -Saint Mary's student body is comprised of a cross section of ambitious, upper middle-class Americans. 
Caught up in their own goals and future plans, Ireland explained, many students here assume that they won't be drafted. Many do not realize that there will be no student deferrements this time. 

.T~rry Poplava and Erin Courtney hit the dance floor at one ofthe weekends many theme:parties. [photos by R]D] 
He did not find atypical the SMC woman's comment "Sure I · think women should be drafted. All women except . SMC women that is.'' Nor does he feel that like sentiments are limited to females" or to the ND community. 
Accordin~ to Ireland, the ND mentality IS consistent with Walter Cronkite's inrerpre­tation of the rational attitude: "Yes we're for the draft, but don't draft me! " 
Students recognize a distinc­tion between registration and the draft, Ireland said. He quoted the latf)j General Lewis Hershey: "Registration is the will also correct the misunder­standings about the U.S. all-· volunteer force that he claims the R.O.T.C. has stimulated. 

first step towards procurement.''  manpower  ·  
Ireland said that  his  group  

CARD supporters are not necessarily pacifists, Ireland said. They arequestioning the legitimacyofU.S. involvement i Middle East affairs at this time. 
They propose alternatives to q1ilitary involvement in foreign affairs and study lobbying in Congress. 
They hope to pressure the media into ceasing sensation­
[continued on page 8] 
'• 
-~---­


Editorials 
Monday, February 4, 1980 -page 6 
As it is The Abortion Quandary Chris Stewart 
community-minded, outgoing,
·'1.1/t' 1.1" a comedy to those who 
devout Catholics, educated m
think, 

the finest schools in America.
4 tragedy to those who feel." 
The classic family. All of their
un 18th century phzlosopher 
children have attended Notre 
Dame or Saint Mary's. By any'llle phone rang shrilly, criterion, they're an immensely,IJallenng the nocturnal calm blessed family.
"'HI ~rattling me from my 
I know that her decision is
11 t' a-. ured -;om nolescence. 
abhorrent who
·lrudg111g duttfully to answer it, to Catholics 
believe that abortion is a crimf',l ~LtrH eel hack at the dock radio sinful, even murder. Or w use"" tlr<· nrghto.;tand. The a more grisly label pinned on
I:Jil1111<'~u·nr glow eerily 
women (usually by men, orl•gr·.lt·rcd 1:\0a.rn. 
women who've never suffered.\ W<•rn;rrr·-. vorce, not the indignity of an abortion)11 lllll'•lr;rr<"il recognizable, who choose to exert their right-. ohJI(',J JuguhrrliLI'iJy at the to self-determination: baby
"lwr crrd. 
killers. 
· r l11i~. l rn pregnant." 

But I know Mary. She is my.\r1d dJ<' l<"ars hecarne a friend, and I love her as such. 
Socrates favors Olympic Boycott
J;, .... j lntoherently, she She is no murderess.
r l.rrrrldr ,J ..-. I ~rruggled to clear Everything in her: spirit affirms
r 1l1<· , .. J,wch-.; from my brain. I Bryan O'Neill
, life, radiates goodness and
llw•l r .. cn\1-.;age who it was. In spite of the fact that they've had for so long."
, makes mockery of cynicism. engineers, architects, lawyers,
l hr rr 11 d.twnt:d on me. Mary' st:hool has just started again, I ''That's a good point,''
Is she to be condemned for a computer experts and doctors
r Olr my God. why her~ rhink I've already read too Socrates replied, "but what is
, choice that John Anderson, all sharing ideas and all
That drkmma solved. my much about Socrates. The the essence of politics? Is it
, Republican Presidential working towards a common 
ne~t problem wa!'-what w say to other night I fell asleep and not, as I have read in a recent
, aspirant, says is "hetween the goal."
.r very dear fnend needing dreamt that somehow Socrates Wall Street journal editorial,
woman, her doctor and her ''Well watt a minute,
r
, 
"lll< or over the telephone, that was alive and on campus. He 'the airing of opinions on Socrates. We can't all work
God~"

;dwn in..,trumt·nr whrch trans­stuck out like a sore thumb in matters which disturb. the towards common
r I can not condemn her. I together a 
filii-. the verbal while that classical Greek garb. country whatever they are?"' 
r have learned, through count­end. The 'politics' of the
pr""'·rrlwtg the phy~ical. At Many of the students just Reluctantly, I conceded matter would prevent that."
r ll'ss experiences, that there are
1h;rr rnnment, she needed rhought he was some crazy (admitting of course that the r "<>llH·•~IH' t< 1 roue h, to hold her. times in life when there is no alumnus out to recapture his Olympics were not above ''Then what is the special
, 
black or white; only grey. In virtue that allows the world's
In llllllllt'llts of despair. the youth at a toga !?arty. I politics). But I was quick to 
,r tout h r1f another human body is that grey, there is a mental and recognized him tnstantly, r~ton what I had said earlier: athletes to compete together?" 
By this time I was becomingspiritual mist through which

the Llose-.t thitig to redemptiun. however, and just had to talk to athletes should be free to "It's the hard work,r each of us must grope. By impatient.
Yet. I knt'w in my soul that no him. Amazingly, he was very compete with each other no the dedication, the years ofgroping, we choose what we, as
rl'dcmptHHI was forthcoming to up-io-date on the current world matter what the political training that set these athletesindividuals, believe to be the an
all<"vtatt· the tragedy in her situation. I couldn't miss situation is. 
apart. Many have practicedhest option for our own unrque
ljll<l\'t'rlng VlltCt'. opportunity like this one so I At this Socrates' eyes lit up. years for these games. 
All the

situations. Mary chose a virtuous
·'I rook my EPT (Early immediately began to give him "What thought 
athletes endure torturous
abortion because none of the
Pregnancy Test) again today for some of my views. indeed. You mean that men of training day after day. Imagineother alternatives -marriage,
the second consecutive day. ''Olympics above politics, different cultures, different the sacrifices that had to bekeeping the child, or adoption -
Tht' results are positive. I can that's what I say. Our athletes beliefs and different religions made. Consider the mentalwould have made an already
barelr helieve this is actually should be free to compete with should be allowed to work 
d<~sperate situation any better. athletes any peacefully together a discipline, the commitment to 
hapllening to me." rhe of other towards perfection each competitor hadIn her mind, and I concurred,
I et her tell ht·r story for the country no matter what the common goal?'' in Why
to instill himself.
the only viable option was
next I) rwnutes. Dy that time, political situation is. Afterall, "Exactly," I replied. 
undergo all of this? I'II tell ym.l
abortion. The grey.

she was r<·l;uively composed. It they have trained long and ''Then we could logically 
us in for a chance to compete,why:Neither of believe
was hard w helieve that it was, hard. To rob the athletes of a extend this idea to all profes­for your
abortion, but there are many a chance to prove
in fau, 1rue. She has been chance to compete would be to sions. Imagine. We might excellence. No my friend, wemoments when life demands an
daring her boyfriend for a rob them of the one goal have· international ·scientists, must not boycott the Olympics. 
action that we never believedrelatively short period of time, We cann?.t suddenly pull out ofwe'd be called upon to do.
and felt a genuine affection for Moscow.
Abortion is one example; warhim that sht:' believed was "That's admirable
and draft registration another. 
a veryrt'ciprocated. 
point,'' Socrates.
The terrible truth is that we replied 
They had slept together "Dedication, sacrifice, hard
all, at one point or another,
during finals week, whll'h is work, and a commitment to
compromise. We all do those
when it happened. Incredibly, excellence are indeed
very things which we never
he was using a contraceptive. admirable qualities. They
cont:eived, in our ideally
But to no avail. The result of remind me of another friend of
created il~ons, of doin~. And
their conjugal experience was mine, Andrei Sakharov. My
those among us who msist ­
an unwanted pregnancy, that friend, Sakharov is a totally
·'No, better · to .die ' than to
nightmare of every good girl. dedicated Soviet physicist. I
compromise'' . without having
And some not so good. believe the expression tocfay is
f;ll'ed and experienced · the
Mary is a crt'ative mt'mber of 'top-notch'. Anyway, he is a
awful reality of life's twisting
the ND-SMC community. She totally committed and virtuous
ironies, jarring paradoxes, and
hails from a tine, upstandi~g, fellow. He spoke once too
incipient rragedtes are without
U\lpt·rclass Carholtc famtly often, though. So the Soviet
a1r aUihentic underpinning for 
w 11ch rt•sid<.·s in ont· of the Union exiled him: cut him off
their fevered convictions.

wealthi<.·st suburbs in America. from any more intellectual
Mary compromised. She
She is bright, vivacious and endeavors. Who knows what
knew (ull well that the personal
quite auractiH·_. She has the harassment awaits him. Still,
C<ISt was profound, lifelong and 
..;.trnt· a..;prrat rpns as most he felt he had to champion
morally grave.

o.;·udt·ms: to be successful, human rights; he had to
But for her, abortion meant
rnakt· a bundle. have a family, abandon his excellence,
that her existence would not be
and live happilr ever after. commitment, and dedication to
radically, and negatively, trans­
Last Saturda,·..\1arv had an nuclear physics to speak out for
formed. She would continue
,1hnnitm. · · human rights."
school, and her parents would
Onlr a handlul of people "That's extremely regret­
not be crushed, which they
kotuw ahnur it, lltlne of whtch table," I answered. "What did
surely would be if they ever
11rdu.k memh<'l.., of her family. he say before his exile?''
knew about the pregnancy or
I know \1ary'o.; family. '"Boycott the Olympics,"'
the abortion. It was her choice,
I hn· ·r<" c~t ept ion a I people, a terrible that Socrates replied, '"Boycott the
choice scarred
,lcnrted to their children, Olympics.'''
her ideals, maybe forever. 

administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and
-The Observer_ 
as objectively a~ possible Editorials Editor-in-chief ........ Rosemary Mills Sports Edztor. ......... Mark Perry represenr the opinton of a majority of Managmg Editor.......... Diane Wilson Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Edztonal Editor .............. Atm Gales Photo Editor .............. Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senzor Copy Editor......... M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executzve News Editor .... ·.. Mike Lewis Business Manager....... .Steve Odland newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor.................... Mark Rust Production Manager ..... John McGrath of the University of Notre Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News Edt tor ................. Mike Shields Advertiszng Manager ... ...... Bob Rudy and Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC News Editor ........ Margie Brassil Controller.........-.........Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. Circulation Manager ..... .Greg Hedges 
... -·---·-.,-~--:-.......... ~ ... .,--:-'."":;'::::~ 
,
.. 

,.. 
FeatUres 
Monday, February 4, 1980 -page 7 

The Quiet Voice of Jloverty 
Karen Smith 
Every one of the 235 students who made an Urban Plunge this January had a different experience; even those in the same group within the same city. Th(' Plunge is a highly personal experience because the individual brings to thi5 llllcnse 1rban situation a unique history. Each person sees the world in a separate way and integrates new data in a different way. The excerpts that follow are quotations from students' .reflection papers. They speak for themselves. · 
'\ variety of questions underlie these particular reflections. What are the irnplicarions of poverty--for those-who are poor? for society? What is my relationship to the poor? What is my attitude to people of different· races. when I am actually confronted by them? How does one deal with social 111justi.:e without dominating or dehumanizing the people involved? H9w is 1he Church responding to human need and to structural injustice? \'JV'hat is tbe ""ur.:e of hope in the face of reality? 
lrAH.Y-UUCAGO 
·As people who are well-off, we often criticize rhe poor for being lazy and for n"r lifting themselves our of their predicament. In one day I realized that all our r;nionalization for permitting poverty to exist was shattered. We the 'supreme white race' force the poor to remain poor by such means as institurional racism. POVERTY IS OUR PROBLEM AS WELL AS THEIRS." 
''There were about fifteen or twenty people in the church besides our group. They were all black. Because it is against church rules for women to appear. at a service in pants, we sat in the back ofchurch our of respect. To our surpnse though, we were welcomed by the congregation and led to the front pews of the church. I could only wonder if my parish at home would welcome a group of visitors so openly. I sincerely doubt it." 
·'The loving and caring relationship we developed with the Shalom Community House, which was started by Rev. Claude-Marie and Hattie Williams, will stay with me for a long rime. Claude-Marie's ministry is 1ermed ·mission in reverse' which meam: that the minister can and should karn from the people ministered to--including, and perhaps especially, fr~m poor and marginal people. Their aim is to enable the poor to find new digmty and new hope by being enablers and ministers themselves. The mi':ister must relinquish his/her 'power' --skills, knowledge, etc., and permtt the 'poor' to be 'leaders in· the relationship'." 
ROCHESTER 
··The soup, accompanied by bread and stale doughnuts ,was given out free. The men consl)med the soup till there was no more in the large pot. Another worker ran back and forth filling coffee cups. The men sat devouring their food as if it were their only meal for the day and for many it was likely to be. Ab,>ut a dozen men asked the man in charge, Frank, for bread to take home to the1r families ... One of the guests even asked Frank for the food scraps which had been wiped off the plates and put in a porcelain basin ... This kind of poverty deeply shook me, for how thankful I felt for the food I had to eat. Funhermore, as I gazed at this man, I realized that I knew him. He was a member of mv parish.·' APOPKA, FLORIDA 
..... the Plunge has proven to be life altering and as such has met and surpassed my expectations. In the event I can. sidestep. or app~~se ·my conscience and not become directly and completely mvolved 10 the m1mstry to the poor, I shall always hav~ to be _at least indirectly con~erned_ yvith the~r plight. ..The Plunge, then, 1s poss1bly _th~ greatest r~amfesta_uon of th1s university's endeavor to promote Chnsuan values 10 the lives of her students. ·• 
Soviet Presence Detected: Massive Plot Unco-vered
1 . 
The State Department released One young duck has turned himself information earlier this week that over to authorities and has ~iven an implicated several members of the extensive account of the Sovtet plan. Notre Dame community in a complex Assured that he would be granted Soviet conspiracy. The discovery of immunity, he told the State Dept. and the Russian plan was sparked by University officials that the KGB reconnaissance of the campus during agents took advantage of the lak_e the visit of former President Gerald residents' discontent. The officials R. Ford. The Secret Service a!$ents representing the University were accompanying Ford have reported the surprised by this, because they appearance of suspicious wave pat­thought the waterfowl were quite terns on the lakes of the campus to happy and generally content with 
the State Department the day after their life and Notre Dame. 
Ford's visit. "We are far from happy," the duck 
A senior State Dept. offical said that asserted·. "We feel that we are not these reports and subsequent fly­treated the responsible geese and over studies of the two lakes con­ducks that we are. We are forced to firmed their susp1c10ns that the live in, bathe in, and drink this Soviet Union has armed the ducks disgusting water. And with all the and geese of Notre Dame with several joggers, couples, and failing students strategic and tactical weapons. that come around, we get no privacy. There was no specific information on The Russians promised to give us the nature and types of weapons that positions of authority and treat us the waterfowl have stored beneath . with respect." Later, the duck con­St. Mary's and St. Joseph's Lakes, fided that he was to a vice-chairman but the senior official, who did not in the Soviets' proposed Mid-Ameri­want to be named, did say that most can Lake Landscape Area Residents students and faculty members would Dept., or Mallard. (Cont'd page 53: not be particularly upset by the Geese take cyanide; Soviets Deny presence of some weapons since they Charges; Carter Mobilizes Troops on appeared to mostly pro-nuclear at 
St. Joe River) Cb· l UT d 
one of Ford's lectures. ares rroo ST. LOUIS 
"Otis, born in Birmingham, Alabama, worked for civil rights. When his car was bombed, he l?~m;d to Te~ne~see, t?arried and _began to raise a family, suit work10g for c1_vrl ng~ts, th1s ume w1th Dr. Marun Luther King. His life and th~ lives _of h1s famrly were constantly threatened. When his wife was expewng theu· fifth ch1ld, a doctor came to the Woodard home and told them that becau~e the city w~s trying to. hoi~ do~n the black population, their child would be krlled 1mmedtately after lts bmh m the hospital. Otis and his family 
fled to St. Louis. They slept on a woma_n' s pore~ until Otis got a job as a janitor of the Lutheran Concordta Se~mary. Ous, now able to provide a little for his family saw many p_eople_ starvrng. He resolved to share whatever he had. His enrerpnse ot feedmg the poor grew so big that the Lutheran Church J?Ut him on the payroll as a counselor ~t the_ Lutheran Family and Children's Cc;1:1er... At the end of the d1scuss1?n, _Ons gave ';IS a <:hallenge: 'If I can do dus, a black With no money from Btrmmgham, thmk of what you can do with all that you have'." " INDIANAPOLIS -+ 
"Learning to be patient is something thr llrb-1'1 Plungers find difficult. We are all ready to change the world, now One ~~the Urban Plungers _felt a sense of hopelessness because she felt tl .~-uemg from N_otre Dame 1s our ticket to anywhere, and in getting there we will become t?o ned to the system w change it .. .I personally feel that because of my power m the world I have a greater chance ofchanging it th;w does the ?6 year I met, o~ the 8 year old bla.:k boy. But I must use this power for the1r good, and not JUSt for my own advantage." 
WASHINGTON D.C. 
"I do not feel guilty about what I saw on the Plunge. No~ do I feel pity for d'at vague group of people that I once thought ofas the 'poor'. I thi~k that the ,., ;mportant thing that has come of the Plunge for me IS that I thrnk of the· poor as the street people, and that is important--they have moved from 
poor to PEOPLE." 
"Social justin: seems, in part, to be caring enough not to hurt what yo':l arc .:anng about. It is to be willing to follow o!lt ~he ~tra~ds <?f goo_d _that are rn all things and try to reach t~e good core. Sooal JUS_tl~e ts bemg w1lhng t~ try ~?do the rmposs1ble and pay1ng the pnce, whether It ts for success or fatlure. 
DETROIT 
··At the Recorder's Court it became painfully obvious that the violent crimes W(' read and hear about daily, happen often and to real people. For me it had always been rather easy to dismiss these crimes because they did not pcrsonally touch me, but as I heard women tearfully describe being raped, and men talk about how they were beaten with lead pipes, I had to consider whar it all really meant. People, men and women with the same feelings and emorions that I have, are experiencing these terrible things. I also discovered rhat crime is nor the whole problem. Every day the poorconfront a world, a wwld of formsand procedures that is strange to them. They are put clown and called lazy, but it ~s rome that often it is the system, and not the poor rlwmselves, that is to blame." ' 
Mayday inJanuary 
The Notre Dame University Press involved in fmding parts of the . celebrated spring in January when it literary canon such as Faulkner's, brought out the trade edition of editor Collins spoke in an interv1ew at Faulkner's Mayday on January 26. Notre Dame in 1972 about the Written for a woman who had refused painstaking nature of the work. his offer of marriage, Mayday is handcofied and illustrated with To avoid error as much as possible origina watercolors and fine capitals, it has been necessary to go to all all by the master's hand. A facsimile kinds of sources. Important among edition was published by the Press in them bave been scores of relatives, l977 and quickly sold oul. This fn'ends and associates of Faulkner edition of some 10,000 copies will whom it has been possible to inter­make avai!able to a wid~r _public a view over the years, starting before book wh1ch largely lhfluenced he won the Nobel Pnze, at a low point Faulkner's masterpiece The Sound in his reputation when almost all of andthe Fury. Mayday also shows the his books were out of pn'nt in this effort that scholars put into country. esrablishins the Faulkner canon. Carvel Colhns, editor of Mayday and Interviewer: Can you trust the professor emeritus at Notre Dame, statements made in such interviews? tells in his preface how William S. Wisdom the book collector treasured Oh, no. But they ofter~ lead to this literary memorabilia for many documentary evidence. And it is years allowing only 2 scholars to see surpnsing how much reliable docu· 
./ it until it went to Tulane University in mentation can be dug up in public a bequest in 1975. Editor Collins also records and libraries when tells how he found a companion book someone 's memory, however Lziacs in the effects of Phil Stone, inaccurate, gives a lead. Faulkner's confidant: An example of how a lead was "'After Mrs. Stone and I had taken traced to its source in a library was from the site of the fire, which had the finding of the Cadet Wing leveled the house almost ten years Review, the journal of the Canadian earlier, a number of damp, charred Air Force academy in the 20's when lumps, bundles and stray sheets of Faulkner went there. He published paper and I had separatedandspread some of his earliest poetry in this them ir~ the Stone's back yard to dry, journal and the Humanities a badly burned booklet appeared Reference Staff of the Memorial among what turned out to be more Library found it. "You found things than 470 p. of Faulkner's earh· that bigger school libraries never wn'ting. Containing moreover at found,'' Carvel Collins told the least 9 poems, ... (Faulkner, Reference Librarian Pat Fenelon. Mayday, preface] Mayday is a credit to the Univer­Much the same care was lavished sity of Notre Dame Press and is a by collector S. W. Wisdmmon worthy celebration of spring in Mayday. Emphasizing the effort 
January· Patricia Fenlon 


The Observer Monday, February 4, 1980 ·-·page 8 
• • • Probe 

[continued from page 1] 
nor arrests made, but several sources said federal officialsment," said one source. 

were planning to present theirThe reports prompted a week­evidence to one or more grandend conference of Republican juries, perhaps as early as thiscongressmen, governors and 

week.

other officials in Eason, Md., to 
urge an "immediate, full, im­One source familiar with the partial" investigation of the investigation gave this account of it:
chargc;s by congressional ethics 
committees. The FBI did not begin the The FBI investigation was operation as a political corrup­conducted in five cities and tion investigation. Its New several points in between, York office proposed nearly two according to several sources. yeats ago a complicated under­The cities were Washington, cover "sting" probe in which New York, Philadelphia, agents posed as fences willing Miami, and Newark, N.J. to buy stolen an and financial 
One source said the locations instruments. used for meetings included the The fencing operation went Barclay Hotel in Philadelphia, undercover in the summer of the Twin Bridges Marriott in 1978. In order to give it 
the Washin~ton Suburbs, the legitimacy in the eyes of crim­Plaza Hoael m New York, and a inals, the FBI men asked an condominium in Ventnor, N.J., informant for a favor. 
near Atlantic City. To the surpris~ of the FBI, the About 100 FBI agents began informant volunteered the 
interviewing the 30 subjects of names of lawyers, local officials the probe on Saturday to advise and congressmen who might them of the investigation, read help. This turned the probe them their rights and question toward political corruption. in 
them. "Most of them told the November 1978. FBI to go to hell," said one As more and more figures source. were lured by the bait of cash 
No charges have been filed, bribes, the probe "grew like 
CHRISTIAN AND MISSIONARY  AMERICAN FRIE~DS SERVICE  UNICEF  
ALLIANCE DIVISION OF OVERSEAS MINISTRIES . 350 North Hi!?hland Ave.  COMMITTEE CAMBODIA EMERGENGY RELIEF !501 Clre~ry St.  U.S. Committee for UNICEF 331 E. 38th St. New York, NY 10016  
Nyack, NY 10960  Philadelphia, PA ].9102  ACTION FOR RELIEF AND  
C.A.R.E. 660 First A venue  FOOD FOR THE HUNGRY INTERNATIONAL  REHABILITATION IN KAMPUCHEA (ARRK)  
New York, NY 100/6 INTERNATlONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE 386 Park Ave., South New York, NY 10016 SEVENTH-DAY ADVENTIST WORLD SERVICE 6840 Eastern Ave., N.W. Washington, D.C. 20012  331 North llayde~r Road, Suite # 1 Scottsdale, AZ 85251 WORLD VISION INTERNATIONAL P.O. Box "0" Pasadena, CA 91109 CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES 1011 First Ave.. New York, NY 10022  c/o Church World Service 475 Riverside Drive, Room 678 New York, NY 10027 AMERICAN RED CROSS NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS 17th and D Sts. Washington, DC 20006 U.N. HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES  
OXFAM AMERICA 302 Columbus Ave.  WORLD RELIEF  Region 9, Room C-301 U.N. Plaza  
Boston, MA 021/6  Wheaton, IL 60187  New York, NY 10017  

we makethispromise: Ifyoujoin '" ""' 
otherAmericans~ tosave the Cambodiansfromextinction,we 
promisethat 
your donation Willbe used tO~helpthatS gomgtoget 
throUgh. 
©DAVID BURNETT/CONTACT 

r-----------------------------------~
Americans know from news accounts that there have 
Send your contribution to one of the organizations
'Jeen problems in getting food and supplies through to starv­
listed at the top of this ad. Every relief group on the ing sick and dying Cambodians. While some supply problems list is making a substantial and concerted effort to still exist, great progress is being made. end the suffering by working directly overseas with Now, we can confidently make the promise in the the Cambodians. Complete this coupon and send it with your donation. 
headline. 

And you can make a tax deductible donation with the Name-............................................................................... . assurance that you really will be helping to prevent the Address ............................................. , ............................. . 
deaths of as many as two to three million more Cambodians who are threatened by starvation and disease. City ........................................ State ................ Zip ...... .. 
For more information about other ways you can help,
Please mail your check or money order today. Food 
call the Cambodian Hotline toll free 1-800-424-5051.
and medical help is urgently needed. Every hour you delay 
In Washington, D.C. ca/1347-2226. 
means that more will die needlessly. 
------------------------------------~ 
Topsy" during 1979, eventual­ly involving seven undercover FBI men and 100 other agents backing them up. 
The FBI men and others helping them posed as busines­smen and even as Arabs repre­senting a wealthy sheik who wanted a gambling license in Atlantic City and assurance he could live in this country per­manently if he fell into disfavor in his homeland. 
One agent operated our of the Georgetown house where a number of the transactions were videotaped. 
One source said the under­cover political corruption side of the inquiry was closed now, bur that the fencing operation, which already has led to one criminal charge, might con­ttnue. 
• Draft 

[continued from page 5] 
alism Ireland said. He observed that ABC, especially, has caused a sort of hysteria: ''There is admittedly some­thing very terrifying about watching the American flag burn ntght after night," he added. 
Before calling for campus support, Ireland contacted the CARD headquarters in Chicago. He said that organizers there were doubtful that a movement would be 
successful at N.D. Ireland quotes: ''Notre Dame has been notoriously conservative -even apathetic.'' Directors suggested that he contact Monseigneur Egan, who referred him to Campus Ministry. 
Ireland said that he. hopes to eventually solicit support from Campus Ministry and faculty members, notably Prof. Joseph Duffy, as well as from Indiana's Senator Brademas and perhaps Father Hesburgh. His first concern, though, is to organize a student alliahce. 
• • • Irish 

[continued from page 9] three baskets by Shari Matvey, two free throws by Jane Polit­iski, and another free throw by 
Molly Cashman cut the lead to two, 22-20, with 2: II left. A break-away bucker by Lisa Morin started a string of eight unanswered Warrior points, which carried over into the second half and gave Mar­quette a 30-20 lead. Notre Dame could get no closer than nine points the rest of the way. There were a couple of bright spots for the Irish. One was the play of Maggie Lally. The junior guard hit seven out of 14 field goal attempts in the second half, all from the 15-foot range, to finish as Notre Dame's 
leading scorer with 14 points. 
The only other bright spot came late in the first half, when Shari Matvey broke another record. With the previous re­cord holder, Carol Lally, watch­ing from the stands, Matvey took a pass from Conboy and hit a five-foot jumper to set a single-season scoring record for Notre Dame. She now has 287 points on the year, breaking the old.mark.of.281, set last year. 


The Observer -Sports Monday, February 4, 1980 -page 9 
Saint Mary's initiates bachelor of arts in music 
by Clare Padgett the new degree is intended to create a broader spectrum for The department of music at music studies, and provide for a St. Mary's College has institu­larger enrollment. She also ted a new bachelor of arts stat~d that the degree is benefi­degree in music which was cial, because it provides more approved by the National As­opportunity for the student sociation of Schools of Music desiring a liberal arts back­(NASM) recently.· The degree ground, rather than the Bache­is designed for students wish­lor of Music, a degree heavily ing to major in music within a concentrated on the study of liberal arts framework. music with liberal arts expos­
The NASM is the agency ure. responsible for the accredita­The chairman of the music tion ·of music curricula in department, Sister Francesca higher education, as designated Kennedy said, ''The college by the Council on Postsecond­itself is accredited by the North ary· Accreditation. The United Central Association. For a mus­States Office of Education has ic department to then also be designated NASM as the age­accredited by an organization ncy responsible for the accredi­such as NASM is very impres­tation of all music curricula. sive. The approval of the Bach­The music department a( St. elor of Arts degree is a Mary:s received its accredita­prestigious approval by a pro­
' John Wzlliams and his Boston Pops Orchestra performed at the ACC on Friday night. tion from NASM in 1978, thus fessional group in the same
[photo by R]D] 
becoming a member institution. field (music)." 
In order f~r the music depart­Sarah Lanman, a junior ma­ment to receiVe approval for the joring in music at St. Man·'s new degree from NASM, it had believes the accreditation of the to meet ~eneral NASM stand­degree she is working towards ards, whtch the music depart­is very helpful. If she continues
Belles finish second in tourney 
ment submitted in a detailed 54 in her music career, the NASM page report. The report dealt accreditation will be to her by Beth Huffman by Mary Zuehlke put Saint team in assists, with three. with such items as facilities advantage. Women's Sports Editor Mary's back on top. The two Saint Mary's journeys to St. available to the students ra­The music department at Joseph's College on Tuesday tionale for curriculum, the ;lUm­Saint Mary's is very pleased
Indiana Tech just kept getting clubs then proceded to ex­
change baske.rs and the lead for a 7 p.m. contest. ber of expecte'd srudents, and with the accreditation of thestronger and stronger as the expectations for the placement new degree, and hopes that this until time had nearly woundminutes ticked away in the 
TOURNEY NOTES: In the 
of graduates. approval will provide the stu­down.
championship game of the Saint c~>nso!ation game, Finlay was
A free throw by Lori Noble and Ruth Fisher, an assistant dents with multiple career opt­
Mary's Roundball Classic on vtctonous over Saint Mary's of 
professor at the St. Mary's ions and the ability to competetwo by Beth Pruden tied the
Saturday. Tech managed to tie the Woods, 73-.;9. 
music department stated that successfully for jobs.
gam.:, 55-55, with 24 seoncdsthe game with host Saint remaining. But that was notMary's as the seconds of ref$U· enougl: time for Saint Mary's to!arion play elapsed. Ftve penetrate the tough Warriorminutes of overtime granted defense, before the end ofKirk Kavanaugh's Warriors 
Marquette pounds lady Irish 
regulation play. 
just enough additional time to nab the crown with a 66-64 win Indian Tech grabbed the lead--. 
by Mark Hannu,hela 
over the Belles. a lead they never relented-­quette at halftime) il1to a romp. manjulie Sievers, who finished early in the overtime period. Sports Wnter In that second half outburst, with 16 points, hit both ends of
"They outplayed us. We 
made a lot of fundamental The Belles kept within two Andrykowski hit all seven ofher a one-and-one opportunity to 
"I need only one word to
mistakes,'' said Jerry Dallessio points for the majority of the field goal attempts, added three give the Warriors a lead they 
of iJ.is 9-6 Belles. "We played extra five minutes, but could describe a game like this," of four free throws, and collect­would never relinquish.
stated Irish assi~.tant coach Bob ed five rebounds. Marquette continually widen­lik·:: it was the fourth game of not command enou~h comeback Scott after SatUJ day· s women's Notre Dame's only lead came ed the margin, until they reach­thr: season. We had been power to get the wm. 
baskteball game a~gainst Mar­when sophomore forward Tricia ed their biggest lead of the first progressing, but tonight we Tami Leach, a 5-foot 8-inch quette. "Rebounding. When McManus hit a 10-foot jumper ~alf, 22-11, with 4:41 remain­regressed to where we were freshman, lead the Tech attack 
your shQfs aren't going in, you mg.
at the 15:21 mark of the first

bt"fore Christmas. with a total of 22 points, and 
have to hit the boards. If you Notre Dame then made its
half, giving the Irish a 5-4"Tonight there was just no was assisted by Noble and 

don't hit the boards, you're not advantage. only real run at the visitors, asblocking out. They got three Pruden with 14 and 11, respect­going to win. We were out­and four shots, and anytime you ively. Leach's outstanding rebounded 53-39; there's thegive away that many you'll ~et performance was not lacking in difference right tht.:re."
beat," continued the Samt laud from Dallessio. 
That was the major reasonMary's mentor. 
"Leach played a heck of a that Notre Dame suffered itsSaint Mary's jumped out to 
game. She really wanted to fifth loss of the season, 67-46,any early lead, rel}.'ing heavily win," said Daltessio. "When at the ACC. 
on its fast break offense. The she missed a shot she went in It wasn't the only reason,Belles built a 26-19 margin, its 
and got another one until she though. There were a lot oflargest of the contest, on a made it.'' little things, too. Like Kathytyptcal play of the day: rebound Directing Saint Mary's was Andrykowski.
Mary Bayless, outlet to Anne guard Armstrong with 17 points Andrykowski, a, 6-3 senior"Armstrong,· lay-up by Trace 
and· three steals. King scored center' from Milwaukee, ex­Harg ·eaves. 
nine for the Belles, while ploded for 17 of her game-high
At the halftime buzzer 
Hargreaves added eight. J un­23 points in the second half toMaureen King hit a 30-foot ior Maureen O'Brien led the turn a close game (24-20 Mar-
jumper to nudge the Belles ahead, 32-28, going into the lockerroom. 
"We usually play one half really well, but neither one today was very good. We played a flat game-except for one spurt of life near the beginning," offered Dallessio. "We played lifeless, and that's not this team. They just weren't themselves." 
Tech took ·the lead with just under five minutes gone in the second half. Two quick buckets 
ROCCOS 
men's and women's hairstyling at comfortable prices 531 N. Michigan 233-4957 

Over a minute later, fresh-[continued on page 8) 
Sl~() I ~~ ~I(IAl A~All~ll~l~s 
()Al' ~II?Sf)~Al 

The ..Observer-Sports Monday, February 4, 1980 -page 10 
[continued from page 12) totally dominated the 118-''I really feel that my moves reached the finals of the conso­he was injured," remarked pound class, thwarting his early and my technique are beginning lation round. Senior captainhead coach Ray Sepeta. "He rivals by 12-4 and 13-2 counts. to come together,'' explained Mike Wilda was the most was named the most valuable The Buchanan, Mich., product second-seeded Fisher. I just overworked wrestler of the day.wrestler --that speaks for outclassed Scranton's Mark hope I can continue this pace The syste~atic top-seed ~a~ to itself.'' Fracas in the finals, wresting an for the rest of the season." wrestle stx matches, wmnmgUnheralded freshman Fisher emotional 12-5 decision. Four other Irish wrestlers five {two by pins) and losing only one to garner third place at 
• • • Firsts 
Sophomore John Iglar, a run­

Molarity by Michael Molinelli 150. 
ner-up at 167 last year, finished 

HELLO, WfLCOME TO THE' ITALIAN AL~ ANP YaR FIRST TIME' E.VER SKI 




ACROSS 33 Soviet sea 54 Draped 24 Margarine 1 Bound along 34 Caesar's garment 25 Group 
5 Kitchen "I came" 55 Winglike 26 Less feral 
gadget 35 Indian part 27 Wipe out 10 Pear 36 Marries 58 Speaking 28 Stripped 14 Neat as-well ~toppage 30 Fur magnate 15 Lariat 41 Comp. pt. 62 Indigo 31 Mother-of­16 Within: 42 Ball of 63 Removes, in pearl 
comb. form thread printing 32 Felt dis­17 Wrestling 43 Central 64 Farm comfort style part implement 34 Swear 
20 English 44 Certain 65 Prescribed 37 -and soda cathedral British amount 38 Too bad! town soldier 66 Long time 39 "I-kick 
21 Unctuous 46 Marked, periods out of you" 22 Suspicious In a way 67 Sibley or 40 Palestine 23 Be pensive 49 "-great pup port 24 Sashes day for ..." 45 Coterie 26 Terms in 50 Roof edge DOWN 46 Skua 
office 51 Secret 1 Trimming 47 Touch 29 Tropical society 2 Rin~ stone lovingly flower acronym 3 Compassion 48 Tel­4 Large 51 Type of
Friday's Results book: abbr. school: 5 Kudos abbr. 6 Bridal 52 -War 
paths 53 Amos of 7 Vigorous baseball 8 Schedule 54 Normandy 
abbr. town 
9 Go back on 55 Do office 10 Command work 11 Formerly 56 Sacred 12 Excel object 13 Rabbit fur 57 Salamander 18 Eleventh -59 Lupino 19 Outpatient 60 Formerly 
department known as 23 Farm 61 Make a 

The Daily Crossword 
All Rights Reserved animal choice 


---·-­

"Not too long ago 
I was speechless. 
Now lin teaching Ben how to talk~ 
Donald Stev•nson Benjamin Evans 
Cancerof the larynx is one of the most treatable cancers.lf discovered in time, 9 out of10 patients are curable. Of these, two-thirds learn to speak again, thanks to a rehabilitation program of the 
A.C.S. Early detection and prompt treatment can save your life and your voice. 



third at 177 this season. Notre Dame's other third­place winner was heavyweight Tom Wroblewski. He posted 8-1 and 5-3 decisions, along with a pin at 1: 15. He lost only to champion Fred McGaver, 6-5, in the semi-finals. Senior Dave Welsh was a heartbreaking 2-2, to finish fourth. 
• • • Split 
[continued from page 12] 
After the Irish were turned 
away several times in the final 
period by the alert goaltending 
of Wisconsin's Roy Schultz, 
Meredith finally stuffed in a 
rebound, again off a shot by 
Michalek, to tie the ~arne and 
notch his first hat tnck of the 
season with 12 minutes left. 
With most of the fans at the ACC anticipating an O'vertime, Wisconsin's Ron Vincent stole an errant Irish pass at the blue line and lifted the puck over Laurion on the uncontested breakaway. Durocher scored an insurance goal with three seconds left on another break­away for his first hat trick of the year. 
Saturday's contest ended on a happier note for the Irish, as Meredith broke a 3-3 tie mid­way through the final period, and Notre Dame held on for Smith's 200th career win. 
'' In a way it was nice to get it against Wisconsin,'' Smith said. ''They helped us out in the be~inning of the program by putttng us on their schedule, and that adds something extra to it." 
The win helped climax a big day for Smith, whose daughter gave birth to a 10-pound, three-ounce baby boy at 2 p.m. 
Wisconsin had the early lead in the contest, as Griffin scored with two Notre Dame players in the penalty box. But Dave Poultn got the equalizer with 56 seconds left in the first period, backhanding a shot past Schultz with a pile-up in front of the net. 
Defense man Jim Brown scored the second goal of the season on a slap shot from the blue line, giving Notre Dame the lead two minutes into the second period. Just 50 se~onds later, Jeff Perry scored for the Irish getting his stick in front of a shot by Bill Rothstein to deflect the puck past a confused Schultz. 
Goals by The ran Welsh and Pat Ethier, the latter coming in the third period, tied the game at 3-3, but Notre Dame took the lead on a fine individual effort by Meredith. 
The Irish co-captain took the puck at the center line, and was met by Wisconsin's ] on Morgan at the blue line. Meredith swung outside of Morgan, streaked toward the Badger goal, and stuffed a shot underneath the pads of Schultz. 
The rest of the contest belong­ed ro Notre Dame goalie Bob McNamara, who saved 20 shots in the final period as the Badgers struggled to get the equalizer. 
''It was a heckuva hockey game," Smith noted. "We sucked it up and played well. Bobby Mac had an outstanding day, and we had excellent balance on all three lines." 



-. 
. .....,JJ!~

The Obs_eryer 
-Spcirts·· ­
'·' 


S-winitriers sh.i.De; easily beat Bonnies 
by Michael Ortman Sports Wn'ter 
Win one for McDivitt'' was the theme as an inspired Irish swimming team destroyed visit­ing St. Bonaventure Saturday, 63-48 to close out the home schedule for the 1979-80 sea­son. 
The score did not truly reflect the lopsidedness of the meet which the Irish swimmers had dedicated to teammate Pat McDivitt "~;•·ho was unable to compet.::. 
The emotional factor gleamed­through during the meet-open­ing 400 medley relay. 
After the backstroke and breaststroke legs of the event, the Irish trailed by almost three seconds. Sophomore Don Cas­ey then lunged into the pool for the butterfly leg covered the_ 110-yards in just over 53 sec­onds to pull the Irish team even with the 100-yard freestyle rematntng. Then sophomore Mike Shepardson continued his tremendous comeback from off­season bursitis, surging past St. Bonaventure's Walter Deck to give the Irish team seven points and first place in 3:42.2, less than a second off the 
_varsity record. "We had to beat up on somebody after what happened last week against Bradley,'' said Casey, Notre Dame's but­terfly record holder. "Bradley was the only team that has beaten us convincingly all year, and we were mad. Besides, when you dedicate a meet to SO_ITieone, you're not suppose to 
lose.-·· · After St. Bonaventure's Mike Coppola took the 1,000-yard freestyle, Notre Dame went on to take first place in each on the next six events to put the meet on ice and improve the season mark to 4-3. Among the six first place finishes were a number of season-bests for the Irish inclu­ding junior captain John Kom~ ora's :48.8 ~if} the 100-yard freestyle and his :22.2 -in the · 50-yard freestyle which earned him second place behind team­mate Thorn Krutsch (:22.6) in a disputed judges decision. 
•·. 

• .. • Paxson 
{cof.tinuedfrom page 12] 
verted 14 steals into buckets. 
Not your typical nail-biter. 
"Notre Dame out-manned us at all positions several players deep," added Biedenbach. 
"You can't hide any weak­nesses against Notre Dame. They are very sound.'' 
Irish guard John Paxson could not hide any weaknesses, either --probably because he didn't have any. The freshman quarterback hit seven of nine from the floor and all five from the foul line, for his new collegiate high of 19 points. 
Paxson also pulled down four .rebounds, dished out seven assists, and came up with three steals --all crammed into 20 minutes of action. He also converted three different three­point plays on the evening. 
''I've seen John play for some time now," said Biedenbach of Paxson. "I started to recruit him when I was an assistant at North Carolina State. He's a great player, and is Notre Dame's best talent at guard." 
Phelps was also quite pleased with his freshman blue-chipper, and suggested that the back injury that is still bothering Kelly Tripucka combined with the sprain ankle suffered by j~nior big man Gil Salinas, may g1ve Paxson even more playing time tonight versus Navy and Wednesday against Manhat­tan-both games at the ACC. 
"I think that with the (injury) situation we have with our forwards. we are going to have 

Fencers extend win streak to 111 
KENOSHA, Wis. Mike 26-1, Tri-State College, 24-3, DeCicco's Notre Dame fencing and Parkside, 22-5. · ,. · team extended its record win­The Irish are now 6-0 on the ning streak to 111 matches season. Saturday with three victories at Notre Dame's women's ..t,eam Wisconsin-Parkside. The Irish extended its record to 4-0 by defeated Lawrence College, beating Tri-State College, 6-3. 
to· move Bill Hanzlik down to a forward position," said Phelps. ''With the situation that was created, Paxson went in at guard and did an excellent job. 
'')ohn does so many things well. He creates offensive situa­tions and penetrates well. I think it's important that we keep him in the groove.'· 
Tracy ] ackson, meanwhile, remained in his groove. The Irish forward scored 18 points while shooting seven-oflO from the floor. Center Orlando Wool­ridge, who only missed rwo of 
11. shots, led the Irish with 20 pomts. 
Davidson: forward Rich Di­Benedetto led all scorers with 31 points, 15 of them coming from his 22 free throw attempts Center]amie Hall added 16 for the losers. 
Perhaps the most enjoyable moment of the contest for the 11 ,34 5 spectators was the play ofNotre Dame's three walk-ons -:--Tirp. Healy, Kevin Hawkins and Marc Kelly. Hawkins, in fact, had five points and lifted th~ Jrjsh over the century mark with a r.unning hook shot in the final minutes. 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior 
to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept 
classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 _p.m. All 
....,.

-classifieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the maiL
Classifieds ( 
HtLP' Need 4 GA tickets to N.C. State.
OVERSEAS JOBS· Summer/year round. I need 2 GA B·ball tickets to any home Kevin-Chan · 
Also need two DePwl GA 's. Call Rob
lNotices Europe, So. America. Australia. Asia, Tanjobl Omedeto
game. Will pay your price. Anna (SMC)

2106.
Etc. All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. 5322. Big Bra Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free info.
Spots still available for Thursday-nile Need GA and Student tix for N.D. vs. Vacation in beautiful LOTHLORIEN.
Write 1-JC Box 52-14 Corona Del Mar.
bowling league. Call 277-5049 after 4:30. Marquette b·ball. Cad Joh11 evenings at .Need GA tix to any home B-ball game. 
~-Ca. 92625. Unfortunately, Gafadriel has left us. but
Paul 3121.

-·· 
{88-5891. her wood is as beautiful as ever. A
Mor11ss<y Loan Fund. N.D. Student 
Volleyball Coach needed for ND Wom-vacation out of time will do wonders. 
lr•.lllS. '20-$?00. Due in one month. One Will pay Mega $$$ for 2 GA Marquette Need GA tix to any home B-ball game.
en's Club team, fall 1980 season. Paul 3121.
percen,mterest. Basement of Lafortune. tickets. Karen 6798. Morrie,
Volunteers apply Judy/Kathy at 8093 or4 30·1230 M·F. Last day for May grads 
Detlbi at 2218. Here it is -your first personal' Thanks
Help, Please' Desperately need 4 or 5

tr.> apply is March 14. ... Desperately need 4 GA's for N.C. State. for contributing to the corruption of
GA's for N.C. State game. Call EdGAll Rick 8739.

Need ride to Miami of Ohio Feb. 8. Call 1687. LeMans Hall last weekend · seriously 
Need 2 DePaul G.A. tickets. Rich 1187.
lost&Found 41·5154. 
Desperately need ride to Baltimore, 
·Seriously need 3 G.A. tix to No. Carolina
Lost: Swiss army knife. probably in Maryland attime in February. Will help St. or Marquette. Call Sean 1771
Nieuwland or O'Shag. REWARD. Call with costs. all Emily after 5:00p.m. at anytime.
288·1602Rich 6721. 
Desperately need N.C. State and DePaulLost: Before Christmas break · a silver. Wanted: Used photographic tripods and tick3ts. Preferably G.A. Top$$. Call Patfolding music stand. Please call Carol lighting equipment. Good conditio:·. 
179~.
Call Mike at 8695.
#3848. 
Please. In Dire need of 3DePaul tix. Call
Lost: 4keys on Fighting Irish leprechaun Wanted: One refrigerator to rent for the 
Joe 1407.
key chatn. Call 232-7411. semester. Call 7850._ Need 2-4 GA ·s for N.C. State Game.
Lost: 4 keys on maroon leather keychain. 
Cal Don 1143.
in or around SEnior Bar on Fri., Jan. 25. 
ForSrue
Reward. Call 6240. 
Ne•Jd 2 or 4 G.A. Tix for North Carolina For Sale: One couch in good condition. Stare. Call 232-7314
Lost: Silver necklace with black coral at ll35. Call 3106.
ACC. If found call M•ke at 1813 
Need several student or G A tickets for Join the Crowd' Pope John Paul II for DePaul. CAll 232-7314.
Lost: Gold cross pen-initials H K.A. If 
President bumper slickers. $.1 each, or 3
found please call Hugr at 1373. 
for $2. Satisfaction guaranteed. GOL1 NHed tickets to the Marquette game on DEN DOME, Box 41. Bergenfield. N.J. t~e 24th of Feb. MiKe 8501.
Reward' Return of JrePn ladtes Schwin~ 
07621.
with baskets. missing since Dec., 1979 Need DePaul Ticketsfrom LaFortune. Write: Morga.ln. B•JX 
For Sale: 2.5 cubic ft. refrigerator Like $$$$$
1734. South Bend. 46fi34 o call 288-9379 Cai/277-2344 or 7857new. Call 3611. 
or 289·1061 
T·P-25?. 8-track Wanted. 2 GA. 2 student b-ball tix to San Francisco. Cal! Joe 8192.
For Sale:· Pioneer 
Found: A birthday card found in under-dash tape player. Call George at 
Memorial Library -envelope had name :n 1722. 
Need Student Tix for N.C. State and
pencil with a money gift. Check Lost and 
DePaul. Cell Bolo 1"610.
Found to identify. For sale: Pair K.L.H. 103 stereo ----speakers. Still· under warranty. Call J•mn at 233-6370 
Needed. 1-6 student or G.A. tix to l'l.arquette. Call John at 1143.
For Rent 
Needed: 4·6 GA N.C. State B·Ball
-

Female roomate wanted: Spacious Tickets tickets Will pay ~op dollar. Call Andy
apartment at 832 Notre Dame Ave. 8851. $77.50 a month. Stay free in February. 
Need 2 or more tickets to any basketballCall 232·8308. game. Mark 1764. Got to have many G.A. DP.Paul Tixs. S Barry 2106. 
1 bedroom tor rent in 3 bedroom home. 
FREE MONEY for 3-4 MARQUETTE 
on Ironwood Rd. Call 277-0556.­
GA's. Need !l~sperately. Call Kevin DESPI::R'HELY NEED 2-3 N.C. State 1602. B.B. Tix. G A., please call Dan o· Bob at 
4 bedroom house ior rent in summer. 
3324 'f Call 287·6325. 
Want 4 G A Basketball tickets to any h0me yame ·will tY reasonable price. Need 1-4 DePaul Tix. Will pay whateverFurnished room with bath/shower. kit-
C..ll Steve 8~38. it takes to get them. Greg 1728 
c~en. den. and laundry priveleges. 
Q~iet, near campus. Call 232-6181 or 
DAYTON GA's I need 2 G.A. ·s for any NO home 
289-8651 lor details. 
DAYTON GA's basketball game Will pay top dollar. 
DAYTON GA's Call Jeff 8764. 
DAYTON GA's 
DAYTON CA's Multiple Dayton GA's needed. Otters. 
I need 'em -Mick P£12. Mick 8212. Wanted: Expired Indiana license ~lates for hobby collection. Call Joe at 8 86. ,~eed 2 DtJPaul tix. Money no object. I need 2 G.A. DePaul tickets for Dad 
rwanted 
Cull 8605. before I graduate. Mick 8212. Interested in going to D.C. in February? Need ride or riders... Call 3887 or 3611. Need N.C. Stat~ B-Ball tix. Cadi Tim -Need student and G.A. tix for DePaul 
B-ball qame Paul 3121.
287-4823. 
Needed: G.A. 's for Navy, Marquette, Need 3 GA tickets to Manhattan. CallNo. Carolina. and DePaul. Save the. 
Need GA N:c. State Tix. Call Larry 8693. (SMC) 5278.
neediest. Call Kathy at 1343. 
Desperately need .2 GA tickets for DePaul. Will pay good money. Call Pete 6775. 
In desperate.oeed of 6 G.A. tix for N.C. State. Call John at 1109. 
Personals 
visit scenic Oarkover the best ski area In the galaxy 
SAY HELLO TO SUE NICKELS TODAY! 
Arthur Stueck Rupinen: 
How many angels can dance on the head of apin? Please inform us. oh King of the Pinheads! 
Love Bunnies 
Mon. You've been a good friend to me toot Thanks for the great letter. 
Your KNIGHT IN SHINING ARMOR 
P.S. Been in any trundle beds lately? 
Angelique. I play all forms of music. I like your Iarm. I'II play your song (Fri-nite(. Me, Michele 
Pfister Joe's will be meeting this week or Friday. Members must be present or they will be denied drinking privileges. Time to be announced later. 
The Regulars 
Donate your Manhattan B-ball tickets to the Family and Children Center. Cila workers will be collecting in the Dining Hall on Monday and Tuesday afternoons. 
Thanks to my four "crazy roomies. first floor Walsh girls, the Keenan guys, the passer, John, Jay and Theresa for an excellent nineteenth birthday. 
Much love-Eileen 
Two People need ride to Marquette for weekend of February 8th. Call Smc 5347 or 5342. 
Thought for the Day -Kulp. For more info call 1653. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY JILL WASNI!!! 
To Big 'WAS" from Little "WAS", Happy 20th II Have a good onell 
N.D. and SMC Women AVOID THE DRAFT!!! Contact the Notre Dame Stud Service for Deferment Processing. Call1479 for appointment. 

though thanks for coming to our nice quiet party' 
Congratulation on your victory Phil -I'm proud of you' Shindu 
LIKE TO SKI? So do we. but we are stranded on the flats of N.D. If you supply the transportation. we'll supply$$ and scintillating company. Call Erin at 1264 or Lynne at 1254. 
She came down from CINCINATTLeh, 
Jane? 

We. the cultural members of Pfister Joe's do hereby challenge the Brothers of I Tappa Kegga to a volleyball game. A reply is hereby demanded. 
Thank you ... 
Pfister Joe's Regulars 

VIRGIN MALE, Jr., decides to let his pre-marital views on sex succumb to working knowledge of the female mysti­que. I'm 5'7", 160 lbs., paunchy, caustic wit, and very interesting. and desire a dominant and/or understanding female to help me over the hump. Field experience is needed [though bedroom is preferable[. Virginity 100 percent guar­anteed [Scout's honor]. Because of its nature and validity involved, this offer will not be repeated. First corner, gets first crack [vice-versa]. Ladies. girls. bow-wows [or Dancin Irish in some situations]. Serious only. Bart. Reply through personals. 
Joe. Why dtd you look at your shadow on Saturday. you fool, we don't wanr6 more weeks of wt nter. Hope your 21st was a great one. 
Rick 

Indiana University Ski Club cordially invites HC, NO and SMC students to a Traverse City weekend on Feb. 29-March 
2. One day of great skiing at Timberlee. one at the mammoth Schuss Mtn. 2 nights deluxe lodging at the Traverse City Days Inn. Lifts & Lodge $30.00! All taxes and tips included. Deadline Feb. 
13. Details: Call David Nagy 259-1378. 
HAPPY BE-LATED HALF BIRTHDAY LISA LENNON!! Hope it was a happy one. Wish we could be around in August! 
Much love.· 

The group that watched you celebrate it 
Doug, 

I hope there's no hard feelings. the girl who opened her big mouth 
\ 


Monday, February 4, 1980 -page 12 
Irish, Badgers· split as S111ith -wins 200 
by Mark Perry in the last three minutes of the Sports Editor first period. 
Dan Collard started the Notre What a difference a day Dame flurry with 2:10 left, makes. tipping in a shot on a frantic 
On Saturday afternoon the scramble in front of the net. Irish eyes were smiling, as the Defenseman Jeff Brownschedle 
Notre Dame hockey team came gave the Irish the lead on a away with an exciting 4-3 win in breakaway 47 seconds later, the opener if its series with the ~nd. then Greg Meredith poked Wisconsin Badgers. For Irish tn fom Mtchalek's rebound 
coach Lefty Smith it was a day with only two seconds left in the period. ·
for rejoicing, as he notched his 200th Notre Dame victory and When Meredith notched his also celebrated the birth of his second goal on another assist grandson midway through the from Michalek early in the 
first period. second stanza, it appeared that But on Sunday the Big Red the Irish were going to run fans did the celebrating, as a~ay with their sixth straight 
Wisconsin overcame a 4-1 VICtory. 
Notre Dame lead and scored "But we started to let up," two goals late in the third Smith noted. "We were get­
period to leave South Bend with ting more individualistic, start­ed taking chances we shouldn't
a 7:5 win and a split for the
Wisconsin fans located behind Notre Dame goalie Dave Laurion have reason to celebrate senes. have, and that burned us. one ofthe Badgers' seven goals yesterday at the A CC. [photo by John Macor] 
"I gave Wisconsin a lot of ''When you get somebody credit for coming back the way down, you squeeze them. We 
didn't."

they did," Smtth said about Sunday's contest. "We just The Badgers responded with didn't have that killer instinct. four straight goals of their own, 
Paxson, ND outclass Davidson 
The Badgers could have folded, including two by Chuck 
but they didn't." Durocher, and Ron Griffin's were too The Badgers gained the early tip-in with Irish goalie Daveby Paul Mullaney The Irish simply defenses weII. '' 
lead on Sunday, as Jon Morgan ~aurion complete!>: out of posi­
Assistant Sports Editor much for their outclassed Notre Dame shot 54 percent 
connected on the power play. tiOn gave Wtsconstn a 5-4 leadguests. They pleased the home from the field, outrebounded
Davidson coach Eddie going into the final period.
fans by scoring the game's first the Wildcats. 46-25, and con­But the Irish came back with a
Biedenbach wasn't too happy eight points, and later had [continued on page 11] vengeance, scoring three goals [continued on page 10]when he heard that Notre Dame strings of nine and 14 straighthad lost to LaSalle last Wednes­points. It was over early.
day night. ''Notre Dame came out ready "Davidson did enough to stay to kill us,'' offered Biedenbach with us for the first few 
DiSabato, Fisher takes firsts 
after his Wildcats were humil­minutes, but we got those iated by the Irish, 105-71, spurts that enabled us to dom­
by Bzll Marquard captured individual National notched two preliminary-round
Saturday night at the ACC. inate,'' said Irish coach Digger Sports Writer Catholic wrestling champion­falls (at 1: 50 and 2: 50) and a''They had to make up for the Phelps. ''I'm really happy with ships at John Carroll University superior 22-4 semifinal decision, loss. and we happened to be the way we played. We shot CLEVELAND--Notre Dame's yesterday. before posting a 16-8 win overnext on line ... and rebounded, and mixed our Dave DiSabato and Mark Fisher 
The Irish finished third as a Carroll's Joe Watson in the team, with two first-place win­Sunday evening finals. ners, three thirds, and a fourth. The top-seeded free-styler 
Marquette captured the team upped hts season ledger to a championship with 75-and-one­sparkling 21-1, while pushing
It was the best oftimes for Lefty 
quarter points, nudging his career win total to six shy of second-place John Carroll, the century mark. He was ·'II was the best oftimes, it was the worst of 
which had 70-and-three­named most valuable wrestler 
ttmes . .. '· quarters. Notre Dame posted of the tournament as he won his I suggest fou don't tell Charles Dickens that Frank 58-and-one-quarter _eoints. second National Catholic crown 
his imrnorta illustration of the state of France Senior captain DtSabato, at in a row. and the third in his hefon: the revolution was ever used to describe LaGrotta 134 pounds, thrilled the home­four-year career. the state of the Notre Dame hockey program state crowd with some of his "The way he wrestled today,
Sports Writer
bdore "the re-allocation." most decisive wrestling ever. no one would have known that Of money. that is. The Columbus, Ohio, native [continued on page 10] graver things; about scholarships and sellouts
U~ now. it· s no secret that the Ayatollahs of 
the Irish athletic department are crying "Broke" and how the lack of either could affect his team. at ever~ turn. Of course, they won't let anyone No one wanted to spoil his day. allually ..,hakt' their piggy bank. but it seems "If we keep winning, I think it could help the 
there i.., going to be a rather hefty cut-back on program," commented senior captain Greg"l)('ndin(?.. and the sport rumored to be in for the Meredith-someone who always knows that to most patnful "belt-tightening" is hockey. say and when it should be said. ''I think we 
No mlJre scholarships-at least for one year. proved today that we have championship­r\nd dc·..,pllf' tht' official dribble, one can almost caliber team, but whether or not that will affect hear the ;q death knell ringing from the spires any decisions remains to be seen... of Saued H~an Church. Obviously, the whole "I can't read their minds." tl11ng has caused much anger, frustration and 
"It was great playing in front of a packed
('\Til a few tear!-> under the north dome of the house,'' pomted out Jeff Perry, a sophomore
;\( :c 

who may soon be forced to decide whether or notBut all of that was forgotten on Sautrday when he wants to stick around and play for a teamrlw lmh faced off against arch-rival Wisconsin. 
sentenced to slow death by starvation.
\o ont· wao.;_ counting their pennies or scanning 1hC' ro..;ter tor players sure to transfer. No, on ''I'll stay," he says with conviction. "I like 
this school and the people I've met here.
"•u urda\. l omplete with its sell-out crowd and Besides, I made a commitment to Coach Smith
I· 5 'leton . even the skeptics paused to enjoy !Jot kn the way it can be played at Notre Dame. and the hockey program and I'm not going to 
turn my back on that."
:\nd quite fittingly, the day belonged to Lefty 
Sm11l1. Ah ... a lesson in loyalty perhaps, from lhe coach and founder of the Notre Dame 
student to teacher. hol key team picked up the 200th Irish win and Unfortunately, I'm afraid, this is all a moot ,·,r..,t grandchild of his career, all in the course of point. Like the song reminds the wishful 
thinker-"whatever will be, will be. . . " 
.m afternoon. Of course much fuss was made; a .... ign was hoisted and a plaque presented, all to Anyway, most of us have been around Notre honor this man who has had little to smile about Dame long enough to realize what we think 
tn recent weeks. The applause for Lefty was about the whole thing probably won't matter at all.
thuderous and everyone had a cigar. 
·'It seems like these things always happen to . But for Lefty Smith, Saturday was the best of our family in bunches,'' he sighed after being ttrnes. told the new mother (his daughter) and his Congratulations Lefty for all you've accom­
plished. It's just too bad that the people who
grandson were both doing fine. it was a pleasant want to take it away from you couldn't see it.
moment and no one wanted to ask him about 

l. 





