...&rth Day -Page 5 

VOL. XIV, NO. 124 an independent srudent newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, APRIL 22, 1980 
Mem.bers abolish SMC Student Assembly 
by Pam Degnan News Editor 

Assembly members last night abolished the Saint Mar­y's Student Assembly by a majority vote. 
The Assembly. as it stands now, is "nothing but an 1nef­fecrive student government or­
ganization,  '  according  to Stu·  
dent  Body  President  Kathy  
Sweeney.  

A proposal submiaed by Sweeuey, would p \ace the As­sembly under investigation by ad ad-hoc commit tee who will assess tht· needs and structure of the assembly. The commit­tee will decide whethtr to form another organization to assume the duties of the assembly. 
''This committee will deter­mine the fate of the Assembly by early next fall,'' Sweeney said. 
Under Sweeney's proposal, all duties of the Assembly would be 1channeled to the Board of Governance and the hall councils. This propm.al would include the allocation of campus funds. Designated committees in each hall, ac­cording to Sweeney, would be solely responsible for allocating funds. 
One question raised by members was the principle of veto power. Certain students voiced doubts as to whether students would be ''fairly'' represented. 
''I'm not sure that shifting power from one organization to another is solving the problem of inefficiency," and Assembly member said. "We have to be careful of the Board of Govern­
ance assuming too much power," she added. 


GOP cotJtender Reagan 
by Mark Rust 
Managing Editor 

to appear at SM C today 
While declaring that off cam­
by Tom}ac;kman 
pus students "in no way" have
News Editor 
anything t11 fear in the wake of the two murdus which occur­With a commandmg lead in delegates, the endorsement red last week near studentof nearly every candidate he has battered out of the race, dwellings in South Bend, Police anJ a se-emingly cle-ar path to· the nomination, GOP Chief \1ichael Borokowski metpresidential contender Ronald R~agan rolls into campus ~ith six ~;tudent leaders andtoday for a 1 p.m. appearance at Samt ·Mary's O'Laughlin five administrators yesterday to Audttorium. 
discuss ways in which the city.
Reagan is in the stare campaigning for delegates to be the University and studentselected in the May 6 primary. Three delegates from each of might combat crime. 
Indiana's 11 district will be awarded to the winner of that Off campus crime, by aiJdistrict at that time, with the remaining 21 delegates given accm~nts, has risen dramarical­to the overall winner of the state. 
ly during the'79-'80school year. 
Reagan holds a sizable margin over his two remaining The extent of student victimiza.
competitors in the latest Associated Press delegate count, at tion is hard to pinpoint since the­present possessing 392 delegates to former ambassador George Bush's 96 and Rep. John Anderson's 57. Nine hundred ninety-eight delegates are needed for the nomination. 
As has been Reagan's strategy durins this race, he leaves each before its pnmary is held in order to begin campaisning for future primanes, which ts why the former Califcrnia govern6r is not in Pennsylvania today awaiting the results of that primary election. In that state, Bush has spent mre and campaigned more than Rea­gan, and the polls show them running 


very close. Anderson is not on the ballot in Pennsylvania. 
robbery across from Goose's
In Indiana, voters who regi_;tered by April 7 are eligible to 
Nest Tavern, Borokowski inti­
vote May 6, but those voters are required to declare either 
mated the suspects may have
Democratic or Republican before they declare their 
been interested in more than
preference. 

simple robbery. Though his 
Both Anderson and Bush will oppose Reagan on the ballot 
investigation is ongoing, he 
here, but Reagan is the only one of the three who will spend 
said he is confident students 
any time in this state. 

"have nothing to worry about" 
Early polls indicate Reagan as the favorite in Indiana, as 
in protecting themselves a­
he was in 1976 when he defeated President Gerald Ford in 
gainst similar attacks in their 
the primary here. 

homes. 
Reagan will be arriving at Michiima R~gional Airport at 
Both murder victims were 
approximately 1?:3~ p.m., and proceed to a motorcade ~o 
women, shot in their homes, 
O'Laughlin Audttonum for th~ 1 p.m. speech: After h1s 
with a male resident beaten 
speech, Reagan will field quesuons fr?m the audtence! then 
and held captive on the premi­
hold a brief press coQference downstairs before returnmg to 
ses at the time of the shooting. 
the airport. 

Neither woman was a student. 
Reagan's supporters request that all ticket hol~ers arrive 
Off Campus Commissioner 
at O'Laughlin by 12:.30 toda~, becal;lse_space avatlable and 
Ma~k Kelley, who will sponsor 
standing room only ttck_ets wtll be dtstnbuted as the Secret 
a cnme awareness meetmg for 
Service deems appropnate.. 
off campus residents tomorrow 
Ronald Reagan 

police have not kept statistics which would indicate a victim's student status. Borokowski told the group that his Crime Analy­sis Division would begin keep­ing these stati~;tics to measure progress in new crime preven­tion programs. 
Borokowski said that one of the two recent murders, Thurs­day's shooting in the vicinity of Castle Point Apartments, is not in the jurisdiction of the South Bend Police Department. Of the other murder and apparent night, sounded out the police chief on ways in which students might protect their houses from intruders. He also auggested that increased police surveil­lance of the area, along with Notre Dame Security patrol cars cruising in the area, might prove an effective detterent. Borokowski disagreed. 
''Studies have shown that the amount of cruisers in the area has little direct affect on the crime rate in the areas stu­died,'' Borokowski said. He added that Notre Dame's secu­rity force was strictly a security guard for Notre Dame property and "legally, there is no way" they can step in to aid in active. law enforcement of the area. 
James Roemer, dean of stu­dents, added that security cars intentionally cruise through the heavy crime areas of Notre Dame/South Bend/and St. Louis street areas coming back fr~m their 2800-odd annual trips to St. Joseph's hospital. To make additional tnps through the area would proba­bly not be "a bona-fide, helpful thing," he added. 
The seeming incongruicy of police arrests at local bars while 
murders  go  on  unsolved  was  
brought  to  the  attention  of  
Borokowski  by  Paul  Riehle,  

Student Body president. Boro­
(continued on page 2] 

Court considers Congress ' role in welfare, abortion 
WASHINGTO:t-\ (AP) -":he t,ionally relat_ed to a _legitimate 
Supren te Cour: yesterday ·ex­government. mrerest 10 rreserv­
plored whether Congress bas mg potential t.um:m :fe and 
the right· to enco.1rage even encour:Jging childb; rth. ·' 
abnormal childbirths by deny­· J •Jstice John P<.ul Stevens 
ing welfare funds for most as.ced McCree wheth·er the 
abortions. government would have the 
same mterest in p·~omoting
The debme embracec. ffi(~di­abnormal childbirths as normalcine and rdigio~1 along with the ones.
Ia~ as the justices heard argu­"There m1ght not be," J\k­ments in a major test of the Cree cor1ceded. But a.t anotherright of Congress to determine point, he asserted, "Congre~.s
how welfare money can be doesn't have to fund a medicalspent. 
procedure even when thereThe case invol,.es the federal might be an abnormal child­law prohibiting welfare pay-birth. Congress doesn't have to . me-ms, thr<mgh the Medicaid solve: all social problems."
program, for all abortions ex­The case reached the courtcept those necessary to save the after the government and other mother's life or to terminate defenders of the fundmg re­pregnancies resulting from strictions al?.pealed trial court rape or incest. 
decision stnking down the fe-· 
Representing the government, deral law, known as the Hyde 
Solicitor General Wade McCree Amendment, and a similar 
asserted that the law "is ra-Illinois statute. 


News in brief 
Tuesday, Apri122, 1980 -page 2 
Cartergrows restless; says 
• • • Crime 
hostages are injeopardy 
[continued from page 1] Such methods of house protec­In addition to Riehle, Kelley, tion will be expanded upon in Roemer, and Borokowski, o­kowski pointed out that all vice tomorrow night's meeting with thers present at the meeting
WASHINGTON (AP) -President Carter said yesterday that 5quad activities in the city police specialists at 7 p.m. The included: Fr. John Van Wolv­he considers the American hostages "in jeopardy" in Iran combined -prostitution, gam­meeting is open to all off lear, vice-president for studentand that he doesn't know "how much longer we can sit here ing, and underage drinking -campus residents and · particu­Affairs; Glenn Terry and Rexand see them kept captive." In an interview with Walter accounted for less than one larly those who will move off Rackow of Notre Dame Securi­Cronkite of CBS News, Carter was asked whether any percent of police activity. next year. ty; Bro. Ed Moran of the Offmilitary move wouldn't place the 50 Americans being held at Borokowski added that he has University and police coopera­CamJ;>US Office; ] ohn Plunkett,the U.S. Embassy in some jeopardy. "I consider them in little control over the frequency tion in analyzing the security judictal coordinator; Phil Van­jeopardy now," the president replied. 
of bar raids. The Alcoholic needs of specific houses and derhoff, HPC chairman, and Beverages Commission (ABC), apartments for those who re­John Sklar, assistant Off Cam­he said asks him on ·occasion to quest it. pus commissioner. .
Stockprices drop to twoyear 
aid in raid activities and he is obli~ed to honor the request. In addttion, the mayor has ordered a crackdown on the bars in
low,· recessionfears grow 
ND Prof plans Holy
response to Northeast neigh­borhood complaints about lit­NEW YORK (AP) -Stock prices dropped to their lowest 
ter, noise and vandalism attri­levels in more than two years yeste~day as ~ears spread of_a 
buted to students, he said. 
Land archeological dig
In addition to keeping statis­slowdown may be much deeper than the mild recession 
deep recession. With some economists saymg the economtc tics, five other recommenda­by Laurie Karpowicz rector of the dig, believes that 
predicted by President Carter, the stock market dropped for 
tions were made which might this trip will be an "ecumenical the sixth straight session. Auto s_tocks :were among t~e 
aid in crime prevention. They A journey through the Holy enterprise." The digging, co­weakist, with General Motors dropp10g to tts lowest level 10 
included: Land will become a reality for sponsored by the Israel Depart­five years and Ford to its lowest price since the days of the 
University support in the form a small group· of Notre Dame ment and the Greek Orthodox Edsel.· 
of computer use for mailings and St. Mary's students and Church of Jerusalem, will be 
aiding tn an off campus crime faculty this summer. funded by the Department of prevention program. 
Professor of Theology J o­Theology at Notre . Dame and 
The application of pressure by 
seph Blenkinsopp will direct a St. Mary's College. 
Postalservice announces 
the university on landlords who five week archeological dig on Lacy Twinning, a SMC nurs­
neglect to repair broken locks 
the shores of the Sea of Galilee ing student, is going on this
and windows. · 

in the city of Capernium. 
trip because "I want to learn
mailincrease to 20cents 
A monthly meeting between 
Israel. 

about Israel from the exper­Borokowski and three represen­According to Blenkinsopp, ience of a real archeological
tatives of Kelley's off campus 
''The purpose of the dig is to dig, not a textbook,'' sheWASHINGTON (AP) -Blamin~ inflation, the Postal Service council to further discuss cnme reconstruct this important· city commented.
prevention plans. 

asked approval yesterday to mcrease charges for mailing 
in Israel, Galilee, and the most types of letters from 15 to 20 cents, effective early next 
An Off Campus Council pro­important history of Judaism Blenkinsopp and Weiss are year. Postmaster General William F. Bolger said the. Postal 
~ram to give students concrete andChristianity." • confident that this year's ad­Service will need new revenue by next February or March 
tdeas for making their homes Harold Weiss, professor of venture will be successful and because of rapidly rising labor and energy costs. "Had 
more safe, including dead bolt Religious Studies at St. Mary's they hope to make the dig an inflation not shot up since May 1978, the time of our last nite 
lock installation, window secur­
College and the associate di-annual event. hike, but instead stayed at the level of that time, we would 
ing mechanisms and house not today be seeking new rates. In fact, we could have been 
sitting cooperative programs. 
* SMC ELECTIONS 1980-1981 *
able to keep the current rates in effect until 1982," 
Class and Hall Officers
r-ThaObserYa_
Weather 
''Mel Blanc Night'' 

LeMons Lobby 10:00-5:00 thursday
Nzght Editor: Ryan "Bugs"
Partly sunny and warm with highs in the low to mid 80s. 
Made/eva Day Lounge 12:00-2:00
Ver Berkmoes 
apri/24

Thirty percent chance of shower at night. Lows in the mid 
Asst. Night Editor: Cindy
50s. Partly cloudy not as warm Wednesday. High in the 
Cafeteria 5:00-6:00
"Foghorn Leghorn" Kliros, Fair nights and sunny days Thurs~ay t~rough Saturday. 
upper 60s. 

Bill ''Yosemite Sam'' Kee­Lows in the 40s to the lowet 50s. Htghs 10 the 60s to the 
nan lower 70s. 
Copy Editor: Mary Fran "Roadrunner" Callahan Layout Staff Kathy ''Sylves­
·Night Ed_itors
ter" Vick, Katie "Tweety" 
Durkin 
and Assistants

Appointed News Editor: 
John "Elmer Fudd" Mc­"Grath 
Mandatory Me~tin& 
Editorial I .ayout: Dana 
"Speedy Gonzales" Michel
8 am PROGRAM, "communica~ion improvement program': 
Sports Layout: Beth "Taz­
Tonightat 8:00p.m.
spons. by women':; m2nagement center, program registra­
manian Devil'' Huffman
tion fees and information carol Ioeffler, 284-Hn, SMC 
Animators [Typists[: Mary
CLUBHOUSE. 

Conflicts? Call Ann at 7471 or 41-4162
Beth Budd, Katie Huffman, 
Kathy Fest{n, Scoop Sulli­
1 pm TALK, ronald reagan, no tickets available, van, Beth HuffmanO'LAUGHLIN AUD. SMC, spons. by students for reagan. 
EMT: S. Paul "What's Up 
Doc" Selavko3:30 pm SEMINAR, "some unsolved problems in the 

Proofreader: Sal "Wile E. 
Living off-campus next
merhanics of fractures," prof. iain finnie, u. of california Coyote" Granata 
.....

berkele~·. <;pons. by ano & mechanical engr. 356 
ND Day Editor: Lisa "Porky
FITZPATHIO~. 
Pig" Stanczak 

year? Have we got a 
SMC Day Editor: Kate "I
4:.?0 pm SEMINAR, ''encocri11e r-::gularion of ddcyte final 
Taut I Taw A Puddy Cat"
maturauon ar d o1·ulat ion m }'~'II ow perch and brook trout" Huffman 
meeting for you! 
dr. frederick w. goeu, jr sp•ms. by biology department. 
Photographer: Rick "Pepe
N.D GAI.VIt\ Al'D. 
Le Pew" Dohring 

Guest Appearances: Neil
6-10 pm, FLM, SURE students united for· re~ponsibk 
"A-dee, A-dee, A-dee,
energy film. spo~s. by dept. sor Ianthro. ENG~ AlfD. 
Representativesfrom the South 
That's All Folks" O'Brien 
• 

~ pm MEFliNG, gsu ml·e ring for 1')80-1981 rep~ 
BendPolice, N.D. Security, and
~pon'>ored b> gradua e student unum BUlL\ SHED 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is 
published Monday through Friday except during exam anti vacation 
the 0-C Council willbe there 
: pm MOOT COURT, moot court argument~. 
periods. The Observer Is published
sponsored by law school. CC:E AUD. 
by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions 
among others. 
may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The 
7:30 pm ART DEPT. LECTURE, "revival of realism in 
amencan arr" john cana:iay, art critic and author. 
Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre
ARCH. AUD. 

Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana 
Wednesdaye April23 • 7:00pm
46556.

7:30pm MEETING, tmportanr meeting of pre-law society. a 
The Observer is a member of the
must for juniors. asst. dean robert j. waddick. LIBRARY 
Associated Press. All reproduction 
in LaFortune Little Theatre 
AUD. 
rights are reserved. 


--............ -. 
I li • • ·,. ··,. -• " ,. -... .. . . .. 


----~--------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

The Observer 
Olebrate anniversary 
Nationalist Israelis n1arch 

TEL AVIV, Israd (AP) -A crowd of nationalist Israelis estimated by police at more than 30,000 marched through the occupied \Xlf'st Bank to Jerusalem yesrt:rr'&y marking the 32nd anniversary of the founding of modt rn-d&y Israel. 
The marchers. organized by the right-wing Gush Emunim group which spearheads Isra­el's settlement drive in occu­pied Arab territorv, walked seven miles through the pic­turesque hills uf Samaria to Jerusalem. 
Elsewhere in the West Bank, three Israeli soldiers and two Arab villagers were injured in an unusual clash that the army said began when the villagers mistook the soldiers for Bedo­uin thieves. 
The incident occurred in the 
pre-dawn hours in the village of 
Deir El Asal E-Tahta, 10 miles 
southwest of Hebron. Accord­
ing to the Israeli spokesman, a 
vitlage mob hurled stones at an the executive board of the International Olympic Commit­tee and the International Sports Federations began with discus­sion of dropping national flags and anthems from Olympic ceremonies 

Most Western European coun tries still have not decided whether to follow the United States lead and boycott the Moscow Games because of Soviet intervention in Afghani­stan. 
Some are reported ready to send their athletes if there was less nationalism and the open­ing ceremony offered less pro­paganda value to the Russians. Olympir: leaders from Britain,
Mel Blanc, the father of Bugs Bunny, enthralled a far over 
Italy, l:.3eigium, :md Lichten­
ctfpaclty crowd 1('tth anecdotes and cartoon:: last mgh! in the 
stein had ;o._ working lunch with
lzhrary w:udrtoma!t. {Photo by R]D]. 
the iOC executive board and presser! tor the defusing of . -uwonallsm lf1 the Games. Sir Denis F<1liows. presidenr of the
Cotntnon. Market 
Brittsh Olympic Association, ,aiJ: ·'\YJ,; rernindc•: rhem that un­der inc Yle:3, the G!ympics are
debate~· U:S~·J Iran. crisis 
LUXEMBOURG (AP) -Com­mon Market foreign ministers, debating what ~.reps Western Europe should •ake in the C S. -Iran cris i·s ;, re readv to recommend stopp1ng imports of [ran ian oil drasrtc<tllv reducinv diplomatic contact:. · anu bd1~­mng :1rm·; sales to Iran, diPi··­'l}:J.tic sources sa:d yesterda~. 
Tf that does not pressur~" fran into releasing the 50 U S. Embassy hostages, the nine-nation Common Marker would be prepared to end all trade with the Iranians, the sources said 
The foreign ministers. who opened their meetmg hero: yn­terday, were expected to an­nounce the ami-Iran steps ~o­day. 
Earlier yesterday, Australia became the second Western country to follow President Carter's lead by ordering eco­nomic retaliatory steps against Iran. 
The Australian Cabinet decid­ed to discourage non-food ex­ports to Iran by denying Austra­lian firms export incentives, subsidies and tax concessions for such trade, and to limit insurance coverage for Iran-bound goods. 
Portugal was the first to join the U.S.-led sanctions, impos­ing a total ban on Portuguese-Iranian trade ban last week. 
The two-stage Western Eu­ropean plan calls for reduction ofembassy staffs. in T~hran and 
. ) ... ,,.._.,_.t,'I~J.·~ ..~·.Y_'"".'~,""·~:-).,0·~·,~·~-~-~,~--~-""!·""·~·""!!~.~)~:·...· ~.-----~.~~J....,..i,./
·.,··) ,,.): (.l,..,,i,":"'/
..'\"lJ"'";~~'t'.l ...,,...,~--~--""""'rt•··.•._!r'i._:~;""',·,l,.o.,·.,.-,I
---~ r ( {: -~~ ,; /~ ,;.:. ·{ r·· ~·( ,··t:': ~~;·.. i· 
Israeli civilian car as it drove holiday was an opportunity for a through the village. day at the beach or a family
The driver was forced to stop picnic. Most towns and villages and the three soldiers, who scaled down their official cele­were passengers, identified brations because of Israel's themselves and fired several economic squeeze. warning shots into the air. Prime Minister Menachem 
But the villagers continued to Begin, in a radio interview attack the Israelis with stones marking the holiday, renewed anp clubs, the spokesman said, his call to other Arab nations to and the soldiers fired into the make peace with Israel. ''We crowd, wounding two Arabs in did not intend to sign a separate the legs. One was reported in peace with Egypt,'' he said. serious condition. The army 
said the car was smashed by a bus that rolled down a hill when 

its brake was released. Trying to avert boycotts 
According to the army spokes­man, the villagers thought the Israelis were Bedouin thieves 

Olympic leaders discuss Games
who have been active in the 
village. Israeli security forces 

LAUSANNE, Switzerland (AP)
arrested 16 residents and im­

-Olympic leaders were urged
posed a curfew on the village, 

yesterday to take some of the
but the army spokesman said 

nationalism out of the Olympics
he doubted the incident was 

in an effort to get as many
linked to anti-Israel unrest in 

nations as possible to compete
the West Bank. 

in the Moscow Games.
For most Israelis, the national 

Three days of talks, involving 
contesr.s be<~·Eer, :ithleres and . not between :1ations. We all 
similar c1tbacks at Iranian mis­sions w i.~ommon Market coun­tries, ~rohibition of arms s;lles LO Ira.• and a curoff of .:1ll purchase:; of Iranian Jil, the sources said. 
[f these a:_ <ions do. not i'>c:!p win the ~osragd' rete<4Sc, ai: trade :ehuons betwe(':n t!":c: n:nc: :.~:~ .. uons and Iran wouid be broken. 
Some sources said the .,;;_·ccnd. tougher stage would be iDple~ meflted by May l5 ·i:· the hostages wew rwt re!ea!':ed. :)i;.t this .could not be co11firmell. 
U S. officials had :ildic:i.ted Carter might want to keeo some of the rnu!r!-nati0na! !T.0ve::; in teserve unti~ next m•.'Nh. 

The European plan, proposed by Britain last week, has r•> cciYed 'Videspread 3upport, · even from Frante, which earlier wa;; viewed as unwillin5 co take such strong measures. 
A high-ranking French diplo­mat said, ''we accept the proposal." · 

A German source said that to do less than the British propo­sal would damn Et:rGp<: ;n the eyes ofAmerican _puoli( opinion "and that's too high a pric~ ro pay." 
A British source said his country would be willing to discuss the possibility of in­creasing its output of North Sea oil to fill the void left by the ban on Iranian oil, which now accounts for about 5. 5 percent ~f the Common Market's oil 
rmports.' · · • , .·open to the public . agreed thar e;, erything should 
ALC(;/lege distrt'btttes cards 
The following department~ in the College of Aw and Letter-,; will distribute check­mark cards in Stepan Center on Wednesciay morning beginning ar 8::30 a.m.: Art, Communica­tions-Theater, Modern and Classical Languages, and Socwlogy and Anthropology. 
Canaday to lecture tonight 
] ohn r:?.naday, distiJ.;.rUl3heci art critic and author of ~~everal books, will discuss "Revival of Realism in American Art'' during a lecture tonight. 
The 7:30 p.m. slide lecture in the auditorium of the Arch­itecture Building is· sponsored, by the Art Department and is 
Tuesday, April22, 1980 -page 3 
Two domers read The Observer and soak up the long awaited South Bend sunshine. [Photo by RJD]. 
be done to see that the Games are held in the correct Olympic spirit.'' 
The British association is one of the few Olympic Committees in Western Europe which is firmly committed to competing· m Moscow. 
Franco Carraro, president of the Italian Olympic Committee, said 16 West European Olympic committees are expected at a meeting in Rome May 3. 
''We shall hope to agree on a common approach to the pro­blem of competing in Mos­c<;>w," Carraro said in an inter­view. 
"Our position is very difficult because the political situation has gotten worse since the Winter Games at Lake Placid when President Carter first asked the U.S. Olympic Com­mitteeto boycott. And let's face it -it will be only half an Olympics without the United States.'' 
Ignars Novikov, president of the Moscow Organizing Com­mittee, talked for an hour with Willi Daume, a veteran IOC member and president of the West German Olympic Com­mittee which is scheduled to decide May 15 whether to send athlete Most of Europe is waiting for the Germans to give a lead. 
Daume said in an interview Novikov was persuasive bur applied no pressure. 
"We have friendly relations," Daume said. ''The Russians have been grateful for our advice and our experience from the Olympics at Munich in 1972 and many German firms have supplied equipment for the Moscow Games.'' 
"We are free to make our own decision in Germany. But it will be very difficult to ignore advice from the government ' ' 


Vegtable Buddies 
---•Showtime 9:30-?---• 
ir----•---------•fl!ll••·-----------------,
RIVE~ CITY RECORDS ·.. ~ 
·•'--northern_lnd1ana1S largestrecord & tape Ii selection and concert ticket headquarters J 
I fl I
1 'II1.00 any regular album O( tape ~ I pufchase with this coupon. 1
I OFF llmitonaperpersoll •xplre-offic.y10,1980 I 
I •20,000nlbums-&to.pesinstock II • Huge cut-out Gnd speciGlim. pott se.lection Iopen tOto 10.1I •ND-SmCchecksGccepteduptoS20.00 Jdo.y.l 1 
1 .... ovet putcho:se Gmount open JOto 10 277·4242 I 
122.~ •.~; "1 N_o_ttb__• '\mJies nottb of co.mous • nextto At•asuP.ermo.rket I 
-~-----------....-----------··----· 
--~~~~~=~~~~~~ 
·
... 
The Observer 

An Tostal to open; gala festivities planned 
h_y Bndgt>t Berry carnival may be purchased at S<•.inr Marv' s and Notre Dame 
When e.e. cummings wrote ticket offic.es. · 111 JWsth:pring when the world '·An affectionately thorough '' mud," he could have been tuckmg," is also provided by speak1ng about ND-SMC's the committee in the form of the yearly An Tostd wh1ch opens annual tuck-m service which Wednesday and will culmtnate runs through Wednedsay night. m wllat An Tostal Committee Ali though An Tosral week, Chairman John Callaway term­dues for the yearly Mr. Good­ed "a great wetkend." bar hunt will be publicized in 
Wicked Wc·dnesday kicks off The Obsen•er and WSND. The the t~stiv_,<~.l with tne opening of successful detective who lo­
a.1 Irish Pub at Senior Bar cates the prize wins a dinner at wltich will continue through The Moonraker restaurant. ··Serene Sunday.'' The pub will For only a penny a vote, 
feature Irish music throughout students can participate in the the week and ''The Sons of election of the ''Ugliest Man on 
R.·illy's Daughter," a Chicago­Campust (UMOC) . All pro­ba.sed Irish group, will appear ceeds go to the Primary DayFrida)· night. School and the winner will be Childhood 'days of cotton­crowned at the Irish Wake on 
Cindy and Ferris Wheels can be Saturday ni~ht. re-lived beginning at 6 p.m. The commtttee is also sponsor­Wednesday night. Wabash ing a daisy sale today, tomor­
.. Valley Shows promJses "a car­row and Wednesday in the 
niva with more fun and more dining halls. The daisies cost rides and more excitement than $1 a bunch and will be deliver­ever before." It will be located ed. on White Field, just across For additional information call 
.Juniper Road. Tickers for the OMBUD ar 6283. 
Looking for Mr. Goodbar Que 
A Mr. Goodbar candy wrapper somewhere on the ND-SMC campus. Oues on . location shall appear in the Obst!rver today through 
The first person to bring the wrapfer to _the ·. ·. ·.· · Activities Office, 1st floot LaFottune w1l be tbt winner. must have possession of the wrapper in order to win. 
The contest will end when the wrappeds teturnedto Student Activities Office. Everyone lS eligible ··· Tostal committee members and the Ob,seroer .. prize is dinner for two at the Moonraker·; 
TODA'Y'S CLUES 
--Father Sorin said, "Once is not enough." .--What do all dorms have in common? 
Faculty Carnival Discount Tickets 
Faculty discount tickets for An Tostal's Carnival will available this week at the Notre Dame Student Union · • Office from noon to 4 p.m. and at the St. Mary's office from 8:30p.m. to 4:30 p:m. daily. 
While regular ucket prices are seventy·five cents each five tickets for $}, discount tickets ate available for five 
$2. . . 
The discount tickets will be ,honoredonly Thursday April 24. . 
Wednesday events 

Irish r,ub--Parry down to the tunes of "Tar &!teo Band 'starting at 10 p.m. at Senior Bar. Beer specialit lasts. 
Carnival begins! 6 to midnight. Be there!r· 
Thursday events 

St>rin~ is here and so are An Tostal DAISIES! $1.2) a in dintng halls. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday:· 
. ' 
Regi~.tratwn for Lake Marion CaMe R.ace...,....-CaU Katie 41-4623 or Mike ar 2·3l'>8 toda>· between 7 and 9p.m~(Teams cf 2 only) · ·· 
\ Registration for An Tostal bike race to be held at 5:00p.m; Thursday, Apnl 24-·-Call Steve at 1423. 
f<na'ay events 

Want to b· ~amous? Participate in the Contest .'riday. Call 12)0 or 3106. 
Are you interested in p~idpating 
Bowl? If so, please contact; Ann 7248 Don ·1057 
or your Hall Chainnan · 
~unhy nnts 

·'lstAnnual An Tostal Ramblin' Raft QD St. Joe'.s Lake. SCi!' your hall crew d~ and other mean late ua.tw:ea, ..:.,J•·..~~~ BitJ Romp& (lSOS) ~Sue Wal$~;(2169)~. ·•··· 
Tuesday, April 22, 1980 -page 4 

PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Sen. . governor in today's presidential The Republican system lists Edward M. Kennedy urged preference balloting. candidates for delegate seats in Pennsylvania Democrats yes­The preference vote is not the their own names, and does not terday to mak~ their primary o'ne that counts in the Republi­identify them with the presi­ballots read ''no more Jimmy qm primary. The 8 3 nominating dential contenders. Officially, Carter." But Vice Presi,dent delegates are elected separate­all of them will be uncommit­Walter F. Mondale asked them ly, 77 of thein in the primary · ted. But the Reagan camp to support a president ''who election. Reagan said he was claims at least 50 of the will continue to deliver.'' confident a majority of the delegates will belong to the 
Republican Ronald Reagan Pennsylvania delegation would GOP leader, and Bush isn't said if he were in George be for him. disputing the likelihood of a Bush's shoes, he would "give ·All three candidates, plus Reagan majority. serious thought'' to guitting the Carter's stand-in campaignere, Bush invested two weeks of presidential campatgn. But spent election eve in final quest his time and nearly $1 million of Bush' said "the indications are bf votes in a primary that could his campaign treasury in what all encouraging'' that he will shape the tickets of both par­appears to be his last, best upset the former California ties. chance to upset Reagan. 
'Smallmiracle 'in Tehran 
Mother visits captive son in Iran 
(AP) -In the first visit by a .after a five-hour stay in the afraid of a colonial university.'' relative of any of the:· American embassy she held her son's Iranian President Abolhassan hostages in Iran, a Wisconsin hand the entire 45 minutes they Bani-Sadr said, "Any assembly mother said she hugged and were together, she found him in or the instigation of violence kissed her soh yesterday during 'excellent health and he told her inside or outside the universi­a "small miracle" that brought he was "a stronger person" as ties will be considered counter­a reunion inside the U.S. Em­a result of his 170 days in revolutionary acts," the official bassy in Tehran. captivity. Iranian news agency Pars re­
Barbara Timm of Oak Creek, She said her son, Marine Sgt. ported. Wis., told reporters in Tehran Kevin Hermening, told her he ''Any gathering or attack on 
·and several other hostages political centers outside the 
·,spend much of their time universities will be regarded as 
reading and playing cards. a plot against the revolutionary
llime adopts 
Hermening, 20, is the youngest government,'' Pars quoted the 
of the 50 hostages. Iranian president as saying in a 
The visit came as Iran exper­statement.
policiesfor 

ienced its fourth day of campus disturbances over the ruling
• Revolutionary Council's order last week closing political party headquarters on universities 
The 1981 Dome seniors' and purging anti-Islamic ele­• section, in cooperation with ments. Iran closed the universi­contmues Editor-in-Chief Meg Klingen­ties until Tuesday in a move to berger, have adopted the halt the violence, which Tehran 
comzngyear Moot Court 
arguments

following policies for the Radio said left 150 persons 
upcoming year: injured Monday at the Universi­
1) Only photos taken by ty of Tehran. An Indiana Supreme Court 
Delma Studios will be accepted The radio said the council last justice and two U.S. Court of for placement in the Dome. met at night to consider the Ap~eals jurists will freside 
2) If you have not had your violence. Winesses said one dunng the 30th ahnua Moot picture taken yet, or if you person was killed and many Court final arguments of the wish to have your picture were injured during the week­Notre Dame Law School retaken, a sign-up table will be end. tonight at 8 p.m. The program provided at the Fall 1980 In an address to his student in the Center for Continuing registration. Sittings will be followers, broadcast by Tehran Education is open to the public 
$10 payable upon photo Radio, Ayatollah Ruhollah Kho­Damon). Keith, U.S. Court session. meini said, "We expect our of Appeals for the Sixth Gir­
3) Remember to mark your university youth not to help cuit, will be the chief justice for proofs dearly with the word those who plan to impose the arguments involvin~ the 
"yearbook'' on the back when · economic sanctions against us, legitimacy of a jury mal in 
you return them to Delma. or claim to impose an economic complex civil litigation. Join­
4) Any complaints concerning boycott on us." ing him will be Luther M. Delma Studios or questions ''We are not afraid of econo­Swygert, justice of the Seventh 
about the seniors' section may mic sanctions, we are not afraid Circuit Court of Appeals, and to directed to the Dome office of military intervention,'' Kho· Associate Justice Alfred J. (7524), Anne Lorenz (6938), or meini said. ''What frightens us Pivarnik of the Indiana Sup­]ana Schutt (6927):" is cultural dependence. We are reme Court. 
The Observer Tuesday, April 22, 1980 -page 5 
Energy responsibility: cheap, safe electricity 
by Kevin Walsh andAnoop Rai 
General Electric, Westing­house, and other corporations have a responsibility to the people of the United States and to the world. The corporations have the responsibility to provide the public with safe energy at a reasonable price. To provide safe energy at a reasonable price includes recogni~ing the hazards and expenses prevalent in the industry and providing safe­guards and effectivt~ measures to correct and reduce these hazards and expenses. 
The nuclear mdustry has the 
responsibility to construct safe 
plants and to develop methods 
to store radioactive wastes. 
Many people who advocate 
nuclear energy claim that the 
industry's "accident record" 
demonstrates thes safety of the 
power plants. However, the 
nuclear industry downplays 
many of its hazards. In one 
instance, Public Service Indiana 
allegedly forced construction 
workers at the Marble Hill plant 
to patch and therby hide flaws 
in the concrete from the 
Nuclear Regulatory Commis­sion's inspectors. The public knows little of this incident, or that cracks developed in the cooling pipes at General Electric's Duane Arnold Energy Center in Iowa. 
Though the nuclear industry and the US Government have spent billions of dollars on research, they have no method of storing radioactive wastes safely. Many scientists and engineers declare confidently that the nuclear industry will discover safe storage of radio­active wastes, and hopefully, these scientists and engineers are correct in their expecta­tions. However, because the nuclear industry continues to increase a problem to which they have no solution, one must question whether or not this industry is operating responsibly. 
1:kcause ot mcreased corpor­ate lobbying, these govern­ments reduce the safety restric­tions imposed on corporations. For example, the Swiss Govern­ment allowed Swiss corpora­tions to sell nuclear equipment to Argentina, and this sale will enable Argentina to manu­facture nuclear bombs. The Carter Administration 
protested this and the previous 
sale to Pakistan, but the Swiss 
Government has done nothing 
io recitfy the situation. 
In the twentieth century, we 
have already witnessed wars 
fought with weapons supplied 
by the superpowers. In many 
instances, the superpowers 
need to promote their sales on 
the foretgn market to prevent 
their domestic industries from 
lagging. One can now see this 
situation developing in the 
nuclear industry, and one can 
foresee no hope for the future 
unless corporations and govern­
ments in the United States and 
abroad begin to act responsiblv. 

Because of this increasmg domestic resistance to nuclear power and the continuous expansion of the nuclear industry which requires large capital investments, it. is inevitable that the corporauons will market their industry in the Third World, where the existence of political instability and instituuonal weaknesses allow the corporations to expand their industry without significant restrictions. 
Because of the urgent necessity of satisfying their peopln's basic needs, Third Worla governmen_ts of~en consider only the tmmedtate benefits and not the long-range consequences of obtaining nuclear power. 
· Alth~ugh the US Government requires countries which receive nuclear power from this country to sign the non­proliferation treaty before they receive imports, both the countries and the United States have often ignored this clause. 

Nuclearpotver: costssoon outUJeigh benefits 
by Mary Pat Bn'ngardner 

A nuclear power plant produces electncity, but it produces something much less desirable and much more dangerous radioactive wastes. 
Radioactive waste, also called ''radwaste,'' is comprised of all unstable, radioactively contaminated by­products of the nuclear fuel process and US weapons program. The wastes can be classified as having high or low level radiation, depending on the penetrating power. The high level wast~s present a greater health and environ­mental danger because they are not permanently disposable. 
After being created, many wastes rematn radioactive for tens of thousands of years. Think of it this way -if prehistoric man had created nuclear wasr~s. we would still be confronted with their containment today. One dangerously toxic tsotope of fission is plutonium; it has been calculated that one pound, properly dispersed throughout the world, would be enough to cause lung cancer in ten times . the world population. 
The halflife of plutonium-239 and other isotopes span from 12 to 24,360 years. If the nuclear industry plans are carried out, 42,000 tons of nuclear waste will created annually by the year 2000. It has also been estimated that 1.6 million pounds of plutonium would be produced by 2000. Even if 
99.99 percent storage safety is guaranteed, an esumated 160 pounds of plutonium would be released each year, tremend­ously increasing the chances of 
developing  cancer.  Plans  
fulfilled,  then,  the  nuclear  
industry will leave  us  with  an  

incredible amount of radio­active wastes to "dispose" of. The problem lies in how this will be done, . 
There is no reliable, safe, fool-proof way to permanently dispose of radioactive waste. At present in the US, large amounts of wastes are buried underground in trenches; yet in less than ten years, leakage has occurred at six of the eleven 
'burial sites. Tanks at Hanford, ,Washington contain approxi­mately 70 million gallons of h~gh level wast<;.s, some so hot that they boil spontaneously and continuously. In 1973 a serious leak was discovered 

there which released 115,000 . gallons of nuclear waste before being controlled. The salt mines, which have 
·been though to be a safe burial site, are now in question since the US Geological Survey noted many undesirable character­istics of burying hot and chemically unstable radioactive wastes in salt beds. Until 1970, radioactive wastes were dumped into the ocean in sealed drums which have since begun to leak. 
A "permanent" solution to the problem is not feasible, as the Interagency Review Group (IRG) told President Carter in their report last March. They concluded that permanent storage "may prove difficult to implement in practice and may involve residual risks for the future generations which may be sigmficant.'' 
Some other suggested ways of disposal include launching rockets loaded with radioactive wastes into the sun, sinking barrels into ocean trenches, buring barrels under the arctic or burying barrels in under­ground caves formed by exploding a nuclear bomb. The spent fuel rods must also be dealt with; at present they are 
stored m g1ant storage pools 
whiCh circulate water in order 
to·cool the rods. 
In addition to storage and 
disposal of these wastes, they 
must also be transported to the 
disposal sites. The largest 
radioactive accident occurred in 
June, 1979 in New Mexico, 
when 100 million gallons of 
contaminated water poured 60 
miles down the R10 Puerco 
River. There have also been 
accidents occurring in transpor­
tation in which trucks have 
S{lilled radioactive material on · h1ghways. 
The wastes must also be 
guarded from theft and 
terrorism -the production of 
an atomic bomb requires only 
20 of the · 500 pounds of 
plutonium created in a year by a 
nuclear power plant. 
The process of disposal is 
also incredibl} costly. The 
estimated cost of a perpetual 
tank storage is $11,039,000. 
The perpetual tank storage 
consists of replacing 
neutralized waste after 10 
years, then transferring the 
contents at ~0-year intervals for 
1000 years. But, that's only the 
first thousand years -who is 
going to take care of is for rhe 
next nine thQusand? 
Solar power outshines alternatives 
By Dan Shannon 

Everyday the sun pours down upon the Earth far more energy than man can ever consume. The Earth intercepts a power of one-and-one-half million· billion kilowatt-hours of energy annu­ally: the total world consump­tion of energY. per year is about 60 billion ktlowatt-hours. In other words, the Earth con­sumes only one twenty-five thousandth of the .:nergy that the sun could supply. Renew­able resource energies are cap­able of providing safer, more efficient and more environ­
mentally acceptable  forms  of  
energy for the Earth today.  
The  direct  applications  of  

solar energy are numercus. The one most likely to come into widespread use quickly is solar heating and cooling. Twenty percent of our nation's energy 1s used to heat and cool homes. Solar hearing and cooling may be applied in any situation with only slight modifications to the system. 
the system's design depends upon the amount of sunlight, type of building and condittons of the site. Solar heating operates according to extremely stmple principles. Heat energy absorbed by collectors is trans­ferred to a working fluid, such as water, and then carried off 
~PRIL 1..~ 

for immediate use of storage. 
Current solar air conditioners 
use absorption refrigeration e­
quipment similar to traditional 
refrigeration and air condition­
ers, with solar heat 5ubstituting 
for the gas flame. 
The initial costs of a solar 

heating and cooling system are 
much higher than those of 
conventional systems. How­
ever, in the long run, operating 
costs prove to be lower than 
other systems. Careful siting, 
better msulation, smaller win­
dows, well-placed shrubs and 
trees can reduce the cost while 
increasing the operating effici­
ency. 
Another method for produc­

ing electricity, the photovoltaic 
system, eliminates the energy 
wasting steps involved in ther­
mal processes. A silicon solar 
cell when exposed to the sun 
creates' an electric current. A 
collection of 40 solar cells 
supplies enough ~nergy to 
charge a 12 volt battery. 
Photovolraic energy is ideal for 
providing energy for a large 
number of small applications. 
Schemes for applying wind­

powered turbines are being 
studied extensively. Simple, 
large propellers turn a turbine 
which produce electricity. 
Where wind velocities are high 
and consistent, this system can 
furnish additional electricity. 
The present primary obstacles to using wind energy are the cost and aesthetic considera­tions. Small wind machine designs yielding lower energy Ioutputs may however be a more 
acceptable solution . 
I 
I 
~ 
t 
Editorials 
Tuesday, April22, 1980 -page 6 
1-----------------------------------------------------;-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~'--~-· 
Earth Day 1980 

Ten years ago today, the first Earth Day wa_s observed by 
Americans across the land. In the decade stnce that first 
environmental holiday, concern for America's ecology has 
been transformed froma popular instance of liberalism to a 
cogent factor in the day-to-day life of American. business, 
industry, government and b_ur~acra~r· Envtr~nmental 
guidelines influen~e our natt.o~ s ?' compantes a~d 
automobile compames; and ecoltgiCal tssues play a role tn 
political debates and publ_ic P?licy. Concern for..the 
environment has become an mgramed part of our poltttcal 
and economic institutions. Ecological concern has become 
so ingrained a part ofour institutions, tha~ it is in danger of 
being taken for granted. It is to prevent thts danger, that we 
have Earth Day. 

Earth Day is an annual remembrance of the respect our 
planet demands if it is to be preserved for the benefit of 
future generations. As such, Earth Day acts in the same 
capacity as does Memorial Day. Just as we pause on that 
holiday to ponder the injustices and tragedy of war, so 
should we pause on Earth Day to reflect on the ever-present 
environmental dan~ers posed to our ecology by the excesses 
of our modern soCiety. These excesses are a constant and 
perplexing problem which demands day-to-day, evolving 
attention. Earth Day should serve as a reminder of this 
on-going struggle and as a symbol of the primacy ecological 
concern shoud have in our lives. 
One area where many see concern for the environment as 
counter-productive is the part ecological concern plays in 
t~ government bureaucracy. Since the first Earth Day ten 
years ago, literally scores of federal and state laws havt. 
gone on the books regarding environmental protection. 
Some people today see.this body of legislation as a muddled 
morass which hinders progress, stifles business, and 
cripples economic concerns. This viewpoint is narrow­
minded. Unless we preserve the God-given environment, 
we have no right to pursue the tangible benefits of 
"progress." Unless we posess the ability to retain an 
unspoiled environment, those benefits whtch "progress" 
could gain for humanity might not be worth enjoying. And 
unless we forever seek the most pollution-free environment 
we can attain, we will have cheated our children of one of 
life's greatest pleasures-nature. Government regulations 
may be frustrating and tedious, but when contrasted with a 
world more polluted than today's, they seem well worth the 
trouble. 

Earth Day has survived its first decade, and, so lon·g as there are men and women who res~ect their ecology, it will continue to thrive. Those people wtll be around for as long as the majority continues to weigh the environment above the value of "progress." 
Doonesbllry by Garry Trudeau 

P.O. Box Q 
Tony's Shoe Shop 
shouldbe moved, 
not removed 
Dear Editor: 

Recently, Tony's Shoe Shop 
was notified by "such and 
such" that they must close 
down to make room for campus 
growth. Unfortunately, cam­
pus administrators neglected to 
offer Tony a new space. In 
more explicit terms, it's bye­
bye Tony. 

Though one can comprehend the necessity of expansion and the resultant need for some to move, where does the need to remove our onlv shoe shop fit in to this scheme? Take Tony's building, but don't take out Tony! If it is indeed a necessary move to remove the repair shop from its current, location, surely the campus leaders can allocate a new location. One gets many holes in one's soles trotting from class to class. 
To the administrators: please reconsider your plans and include Tony. To the students: please register your objections to our administra­tors, and save our soles. 
Name Withheld 
John Anderson and the politicalpolls 
Dear Editor: 

There is a curio~s. circularity to polls (of the VICIOUS SOrt), especially to political polls. They are at once a survey of thought with the hope of predicting future action yet at the same time when published they influence that course of action. 
John Anderson is having a poll conducted to determine whether his running as an independent would cause Rea­gan to be elected president. Those"of us who would vote for Anderson are caught in the dilemma of splitting our own vote out of fear of splitting Carter's. 
This will resolve itself as Carter continues to braid a rope of ''crises'' and futile economic policies with which 
· he must hang himself. (Can Kennedy still win the Demo­cratic. nomination?) Now that Anderson has come out for wage and price controls until an incomes policy can be effected, I can support him. That is the first step out of t~s morass we find ourselves in (He is growing less conserva­tive day by day, showing, I think a process of necessary excleusion, the result of a campaing of ideas. I trust this process will continue.) 
I find little difference be­tween Carter and Reagan and to those who do, I can only say that you either over-esttmate Reagan or under-estimate Car­ter. As of now I will support Anderson as an independent. 
In regards to the fear of splitting Carter's vote, I sug­gest that it is not splitting Carter's vote that one should fear, but that fear itself. An­derson is decisive, now it is our turn. 
Paul Lauer 
Notre Dame: 'not whatit 
usedtobe' 
Dear Editor, ­

As the school year winds down to a close, I would like to comment on some matters concerning our university, and where it seems to be going. I hope both the students and the administration will read and reflect on this article. 
At a time when mostCatholic universities are starting ..-to loosen the tourniquet stanching the general freedom of their students, Notre Dame seems to be tightening its own. When I visited my brother here 5 years ago, I saw a different Notre Dame. Kegs were legal, students seemed more relaxed, enjoying a reasonable balance between academics and leisure time. Most important, the spirit of the student body was tremendous. It was not too expensive, e1ther. 
Well, not any more. As each year goes by, it becomes increasingly difficult to get in to Notre Dame. The academic pressures on the students are also increasing. We are beginning to look more like an Ivy League institution, with an artificial, stuffy, com­petitive atmosphere. And, repeating the views of many alumni, we seem to be losing our spirit in this intellectual upswing. Too many of us seem to be mere concerned with our GPA's to notice this trend. 
. We also lack the spirit needed to oppose the admini­strative rulings that continue to tighten the noose around our· necks. As it has been said many times before, kegs are the most practical beverage container at campus parties. A student is not going to get any more drunk on keg beer than he is on the costly individual beers. Why do some assume it makes sense to prohibit them? Those in favor of the proposal have done an admirable job, but they need more support from the students to have this puritannical rule rescinded. 
Though inflation is soaring,. Father Hesburgh continues tCl get millions for the university. Notre Dame is rich, to .the 
surprise; of no one. Bt, we are gumg tO pay $900 more for tuition, and pay to see the football games in the fall. That is an awesome sum to those of us who must work to pay "ur tuition. ' 
I could go on, but I think I have made my point. I don't think the students are gettin~ a (a1r s~ake,. And, the .university 1s losmg "1t''; the "It" that is the mystique of Noire Dame; 
--the "it" that has sent the "proverbial chills" up and ~own ~he spines of thousands, mcludmg mine; tht-"it" that has made us uniqut~. . 
What has· been real gold for years is beginning to look like 
~ foo! 's gold, a replica that has ammute value compared to the real thing. 
Pat Martin 
Rice, Christensen ~ ,­
defend 
the status quo 
Dear Editor, 

How refreshing and encour­agin~ to fin·d student and faculty opinton so harmonious, as mdl· cared by your presentation of comments made by Prof. Rice and Ms. Christensen on Thurs­day last. The two .articles worked to create a marvelous defense of the status quo and would lead one to speculate on the remarkable methods of indoctrination employed at the Law School. It should be fairly obvious that both are abstractly ruminating about shadows on the wall, rather than leaving the safety of the. cave to confront the proverbial "real" world. Prof. Rice has probably never had to deal with an unwed pregnant daughter, sis­ter or close friend. But it's good to see that even _natural law is an ally of certain curricula. 
As long as Ms. Christensen maintains her view of the way things are, she will either never be discriminated against -since only those females who imperil the male prerogative are exposed to such abuse -or she will be too blind to realize. what is happening. At any rate, congratulanons to both the fisherman, who uses insti­tutional clap-trap as bait, and the fish, who seems to have swallowed it-hook, line and sinker. 
Cratg B. McKee .Dept. ofTheology 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-rn·Chzef............ Paul Mullaney SMC News Editor .. ....... Mary Leavitt Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor .............. Mark Rust Sports Editor ............... BNh Huffman The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of t~e Features Editor ............ Kate Farrell
Editonals Editor ........... Mike Onufrak 
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collese. It does not ~ecessanly Features Editor. ........ Molly Woulfe
Senior Copy Editor ......... Lynne Daley 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institunon. The news 1s r_eported Photo Editor . . . . . . . . John Macor
News Editor .................. Pam Degnan 
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the op1mon _of a 
News Editor ................ Tom Jackman
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are th_e v1ews Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges of their authors. Column s~;>ace is available to all members of the c~mmumty, and News Editor ............... John McGrath Advertising Manager .. Mike Holsinger the free expression of varymg opinions on campus, through l~tters, 1s encouraged. SMC Executive Editor .. Margie Brassil Production Manager .... Ann Monaghan 
•

--------------------~---..---------------~---­
; . I ' 
The Observer Tuesday, April 22, 1980 -page 7 
Zimbabwe: last British colony, newest nation 


lH.Gann 

ing reversal of everything Mu­
The year 1979 marked a exercixe of British sovereignity effectively for the time being be_ re~arded for years ot hard­
gabe had ever believed. Less
ftirning poing in the history of ov@r an African colony. The without South Africa's good ship m the bush. So do the
than a year ago, Mugabe's
rzunbabwe (Rhodesia). For the guerrilla ~o~ces obtained _of­will. 
ZAfU partisans who make up

parry journal had bitterly de­
ictrst time in its history, Zim-ficial legltlmacy; guernlla Hence, the argument goes, for la~k ?f numbers by strict
nounced the white officials who 
lbabwe held elections that per-leaders returned to the villages Mugabe cannot help but take a organiZation and Soviet weap­
had ''oppressed, discriminated
~itted the mass of the black and Zimbabwe once more pre­moderate line if he wishes to onry. l_"or years on end, the
(against), jailed, raped, mur­
population to cast their votes at pared for elections in a general reconstruct his country's war­
revoluuonary cadrec; have

dered and massacred'' the
the polling booths. Zimbab-atmosphere of fear and intimi­torn economy. Mugabe's called for the seizure of white
common people. Forgotten
weans of all colors elected a dation. readiness to work even with farms, factories, workshops
was the promise that ZANU
moderate African government, The Patriotic Front now members of the once-dominant and stores.
would continue the battle "as
headed by Bishop Abel Muz-found itself in a strong posi­Rhodesian Front; his willing­How can Mugabe sudden!..
Ion~ as the capitalists and
orewa. The Bishop, a long-tion. It consisted of two ness even to keep in office ~evers_e the party line withou't
ractsts continue to own our
standing critic oflan Smith and opposing wings, the Zimbabwe Peter Walls, the white com­mcurrmg censure from his own
land, factories, and mills, and
UDI, promised to put an end to African National Union, mander of the army, formerly mil_itants as a ''Tshombe.. , as a
as long as their greed for
the guerrilla war, get rid of (ZANU), a Marxist body of appointed by Ian Smith,. and trrutor, and as a "sell-out?" If
profits and corrupt luxury
U.N. sanctions, obtain inter-eclectic leanings, and the·Zim­one of the world's leading ~u_gabe should yield to the
keeps our society in wage
national recognition for his babwe African Peoples Union practitioners of counter­mdttants, and tun against theslavery and poverty.''
republic, and do justice to (ZAPU), a Marxist party with a msurgency warfare, all seem to whi_tes, ho;v can hL prevent the whites and blacks alike. Muz-pro-Moscow orientation. Rob­But can Mugabe stick to prove Mugabe's commitment rap1d emtgrauon of skilled orewa won a clear-out victory". ert Magabe, ZANU's leader, moderation? The optimists to the new line. 
whites, _followed by the kind ofUnofficial international obser-fought his campaign on a believe that he will, and that But this is not the whole economic chaos that earlier vers, (including Freedom platform of moderation, and the U.S. should support him in story. The Patriotic Front, for s~n~ck _Mozambique underHouse, a highly respected gained a major victory. Upon his endeavors. Mugabe, the one thing, is not a united body. 
stmtlar Circumstances? 
American body,) described the /winning, he disflayed an. 3;P· • argument ~oes, has much in There are divisions of person­
Moderates have other

election as a reasonably fair parent degree o magnamtmty common wtth Samora Machel, ality. There are ethnic splits, reasons for concern. Marxist­one, reflecting the pe~ple's rarely equalled in the modern the Marxist who obtained as Shona supporters of ZANU Leninists are past masters atwill. history of Africa.. His new power in Mozambique in 1974. dash with Ndebele backers of the art of camouflage. InOn the face of it, the 1979 government included members The two are personal friends; ZAPU. Guerrilla warfare in Eastern. Europe, for example.
elections should have occa-of the white minority (at pre­both were educated by Catholic the past has set brother against every St';~gle communist partysioned satisfaction alike in sent entitled to 20 parliamen­missionaries; both are Marxist, brother, clan against clan, vil­
th~t.attamed power after 1945,
London and Washington. The tary seats). Mugabe also gave Leninists but neither of them is lage against village; the legacy ongmally set out on a ·moder­
new Zimbabwe constitution in ministerial appointments t9 a pro-Moscow hard liner. of hatred remains hard to ate program. ­fact went beyond the terms of supporters of the Zimbabwe Mozambique and Zimbabwe extirpate. The countryside has 
.Can Mugabe go along <~the Kissinger Agreement, con-African Peoples Union, now both deP.end on South Africa's sufferti:d severly; the country's dtfferent route? If he shouldeluded in 1976, whereby Ian the main opposition, that de­good wdl; South Africans run industrial equipment--once succeed in doing so, he maySmirh had at last consented to rived its strength from the Mozambique's railways and its modern--is now widely out­become known to history as anblack majority rule. But the Ndebele people, (a black ethnic principal port. The South dated or worn out. 

African Bismarck. MugabePatriotic Front (an alliance of minority in a country whose Mricans exercise an even Yet at a time when the however, may not be able to'Marxist guerrillas), refused to inhabitants mainly speak the greater stranglehold over the economy has begun to falter, control the forces that hecooperate. International sane-Shoma group of languages). Zimbabwe economy through Mugabe is suddenly expected helped ·to set in motion.
tions. against Zimbabwe con-Mugabe vowed to cooper~te South African control of Zim­to produce rabbits out of his Instead of becoming the archi­tinued, and so did the guerriJia with white officials and white babwe's southward communi­hats. 
tect of the new Zimbabwe he war. Zimbabwe remained ah military officers. "Whether cations by road, rail, and air, The revolution was expected to might end as its grave digger. 
unrecognized republic. After you are white or black," ~e and through Zimbabwe's reli­bring prosperity to all, but lengthy negotiations, Zim-concluded, "forget the gnm ance on South Africa as a prosperity lit:s far beyond the babwe returned to an iQ.terim past.'' source of capital, skilled labor, horizon. Mugabe's own guer­Zimbabwe gained it's inde­government presided over by a Mugabe's new line rel?re-services, and as a major mar­rillas, tough men inured to pendence last Thursday. British e:overnor in the last sented apparently an astomsh-ket. Zimbabwe cannot function violence esoeciallv exoect to 
South Africa: site of ND corporate hypocrisv 
James -'Stewart 

Every year the advent of of brevity lets consider only the tionals are not progressive to move, "with all deliberate Oil and Cities Service are not 
warm spring weather quells common stocks held in this agents in South Africa emerges speed'', rece~ving a cla~sifi~a---:urrently identified by Standard 
most lingering concerns with portfolio. from the fact that as of Novem­t10n tr~>n ~ull_tvan·s momtonng and Poors as the best invest­
social justice is~ues. Alt_hough I Of h · · ber, 1979 only 135 out of over group_mdt~aung that good pro-ments in this industry although 
am sure that thts year wtll be no t. e 43·Issues h~ld m t~e 400 firms had become signa­~ress ts bem~ made toward the their respective ratings and 
exception, I feel compelled to portfolw 11 • or sltghtly m tories to the. Statement of tmplementatlon of the-se princi-yields are A/7.5 p :rcent and 
speak out on the South African excess_ of _25 percent, _have Principles. Moreover, in a re­pies. . . . A/5.2 percent. In compar:son. 
investment issue because of my operatiOns. m the Rebublt~ of port covering 93 of the signa­My professional tramm!S man-Exxon, Standard Oil of Califor~ 
impending departure from South Afnca. These holdmgs tories Sullivan characterizes on­dates that I addr~ss the tssue of nia and Mobil are all rated 
Notre Dame. Hopefully I need account for about 17 percent of ly 22 as making "good" pro­the c<;>st of pursumg the_ course A-plus by Standard and Poors 
not remind readers that there the total mark~t value of t~e ~ress, while 62 are character­of_acuon !hat I have outlmed. A with yields of 7.3 percent. 
still has been no disclosure of common stock m the portfolio Ized as making "acceptable" crtttc mtght argue that the 5.0 percent and 5.7 perceni: 
the University's investment as ofJu~e 30, 1977. . progress, and 9 are said to curr~nt state of the stock m~r-respectively. All three of these 
portfolio to the Notre Dame . There IS, ofcourse, a_contmu­need to become more active. . ket ts such that su~stanual firms, unfortunately, have 
family. In this regard, one ~ng debate surroun~mg the My concerns would be some­losses· would be reahzed be--~perations in South Africa 
cannot help but admire the Issue of whe_ther foretgn firms what allayed if I could report cause stocks ~o~ld have to be Mead Corp. is a betr r tnvest· 
administration for its political ~re progressive_ change_ agents that the firms operating in sold below ongmal ~ost. That ment, and W< stvaco a rea­
astuteness. The history of stu-m th_e ~outh Afncan environs or South Africa whose srock is type of argument ts fl_a~ed sonable substitute fo1· ;:;t. 
dent acti' ism on this campus l'n~ttttng supp<;>rter~ of Apar­held in the Retirement Plan theoretically because ongmal Regis and that· Inland Steel is 
would certainly support a pre-thetd: I~ mulu-nanonal~ are portfolio were all signatories of cost~ are s_unk and th~ ~elevent a better mvescment than either 
diction that concern with the contnbu~mg to the demise of the Sullivan Principled and c<:>nstd_eratwn for deCiswn rna-U.S. Steel or Bethlehem Steel. 
issue of whether Notre Dame is Apart~etd, so the argument were amoung those classified kmg ts ~hether the current Mead Wesvaco and Inland have 
dire..:tly propping up the Apar-goes_, It would be c_ount~rpro­as making good progress configurauon of _the )portfolios no South African operations. 
thied regime would fade once d~cttv~ for the l!mve~slty to toward the implementation of ~he mos_t appropnate ~or 3:(htev-The foregoing is meant to 
media hype surrounding the divest Itself ?f holdm~_s m thes~ these principles. unfortunately mg ~he mve~tm~nt _objecuves ~t demonstrate that the University 
issue diminished. firms. The ments of thts I can make no such report. Only at gtven pomt In time (E\-en tf can pursue its investment ob­
The tragedy of this situation argu~e.nt can be assessed by five of the firms in question are the argume~t were not flawed jectives while, at the same 
is that restricting the flow of exammmg the eff~cts to date of currently signatories to the on theoretical grounds, .c the time, supporting its rhetoric on 
information in an instituti,n most com~rehenstve effort un­statement of principles; Inter­a!Sgregat~ mark~t value o. ,.the behalf of h_uman rights with 
presilmably dedicated ~erw~y to msu~e t~at firms a~t national Minerals and Chemi­~IX non·stgnatones was app:ox· concrete actton. It may well be 
to the pursuit of truth comes. 10 a pro!Sresstve manner m cals, Kennecott Copper, Olin 1mately $100,000 over .co:-as the case that,portfolio adjust­
dangerously close to treating South Afnca. . Corp., Phelps Dodge and Good­per the report). For t11e >·~keof.· ments have been made in the 
the Notre Dame family like The Reverend Leon ?l:llhvan, year. The other six; Gulf Oil, argument, let us suppose t~at pension fund and also in the 
"second class citizens" in foun~er_ of_ Oppoptunmes In­. Newmont Mining, St. Regis each of th~ ~on-stgnatom;s larger portfolios since the time 
much the way that Apartheid dust~taltz3:tton Cenaters, ~nc:, Paper, U.S. Steel, Bethlehem whose stock ts tn the po_rtfoho that the report which I have 
treats Blacks, Coloreds and has munctated a set _of pnn_CI­Steel and Cities Service Co. are ~as a well defined ro!e ~n the analyzed was submitred.But 
Asians. Fortunately, however, pJes (term~d the Sulhyan pnn­not. mve~tmen_t stra~egy md1cated given the UniversiJ''s posture 
there are creative strategies Clple_s) wht~h 3;re supposed to by Its ytelc, mdustry, and on · r · isclosure
The foregoing suggests to me ·t ·1· · Th mwrmauon ,
that can be employed to over-provtd~ g~udelmes for_ firms growth posstm Jttes. e ques-h k ~ A d -1 •
that the University's passive 1
tion then becomes whether it is ow are we to_ now· ~ unn ' come the official policy. ope:aung m ~out~ Afn~a t~at 
stand is unacceptable. It is not 
possible to identify alternative thts
Under the provisions of the des':fe to avmd dtscrtmmat~ng we know analysts _has 
unreasonable to expect that the 
mvestments that ar.e not moral-shown that w_e _have every nghtFreedom of Information Act agamst the oppressed ract~l­
University would, at the mini­
ly objectionable on the limited to be suspiCious a~out . t~eaccess can be gained to the c~ltural groups. The first p~m­mum, inform those firms whose grounds that I am employing .. con~uct of _the UmversJty sAnnual Report of the Retire-ctple calls for ~on-segrega~ton stock it holds that if they have · , . · . bu.,mess as It relates to thement Income Plan for Staff of the races m 3;1~ .eatmg, not become signatories to the _To simplify the dtscussto~ I support of the ApartheidEmployees. An analysis of the comfort and work factlmes. T~e Sullivan principles by a s.peci­wtll f~us only on the non-stg-regime.
investment portfolio of this plan second endorses equal and fatr natones and make the assump­
fied period of time divestiture
will provide at least som~ employ~ent practises for all tion that the overall investment J St t · · t, t 
minimal indication as to whe-employees. will occur. I would also like to strategy places primary empha-ames ewa~ ts a_ssts an 
ther my con~ern about the see the University issue an · · ld d th Jrofi•sso.~ of economtcj a11d
!:;IS oo current yte an e 'J· .1' h b' L J' 
~nnoort of the Apartheid re~ A mixed_ .p.icture skewed to ultimatum to those fir.ms wh., b 1 n t th 'bilitie a-trector o1 t e tac" stuutes 
9. g~ erm g:ow posst s. program at Notre Dame. 
gtmc: is warrantf?·. F~r the sake "';'~rd_t~~-,P~:~t~~n th~\ ~~lti-na-are. signatories reqt,~-i,r~~g them . .It IS mterestmg to note that Gutf, ·, , . 1· 





The Observer Tuesday, April 22, 1980 -page 8 
"We're not as concerned with
good players who haven't sign­at Evanston, she cautions a­Stanislao is stepping into a 
being a financial success as we
ed letters-of-intent yet, and we gainst expecting too much, too newly-created position, rather 
are with being a competitive
should be able to attract some soon. than succeeding former coach 
success, although I ·stronglyof them to Notre Dame once "We'll be good,'~ she promi­Sharon Petro. 
believe that women's basket­
they\~e heard that we're offer­ses, "But I don't want people to "Over 50 candidates applied 
ball has the potential to become
ing scholarships.'' get really upset ifwe don't go to for the job, and we interviewed 
the next revenue-producing
Di Stanislao will inherit the the national tournament the four -Mary Di Stanislao, Sha­
sport at Notre Dame.''

nucleus of Notre Dame's 1979-first year. A lot Jepends on ron Petro and the head coaches 
Di Stanislao likewise eschews .
... Coach 
80 squad which finished among recruiting luck and scheduling at Penn and Rutgers. All four the idea of a spoon-fed jump
the nation's top 16 Division III luck, but I think if my staff and I had compiled very fine records 
into Division I.

teams, and she will be looking do our homework, we'll be at schools that place a high 
"We don't want to schedule
to complement the existing competitive.'' priority on academics. We felt 
ourselves into a funeral par­[continued from pagt· 12] talent. With Phelps and Di Stanislao that the difference was Mary's lor," she says, "but we want to
"I understand there's a lot of at the helm, the Irish are success at a Division I pro­
get a taste of it right away. " 
"It was more than just being talent on the team right now, attempting a one-year jump gram." impressed with Mary's record and I'm very anxious to get a from Division III to Division I, a On the immediate horizon, at Northwestern," says Phelps. chance to see the girls play,'' move that, to say the very least, Phelps is trying to schedule as 
·'But she accomplished it at a she says. "I'm not expecting to will be a challenge. many doubleheaders as possi­SMC-ND school verv much like Notre wash everybody out and start "I've always felt that if Notre ble for the 1980-81 season. The 
Dame. wh~re a major emphasis anew. These are the kind of Dame were to make a committ­Irish already have twin bills 
to clash 

is placed an academics as well people you build with. We'll ment in women's basketball, it slated against Virginia in the as athlctirs. recruit to fill holes on the team, would be a first-class committ­Rosemont Horizon, and against
With manv of the nation's top and if we find that players from ment,'' says Phelps. ''And that Marquette in the Milwaukee in softball high schotll players aln:ady last year's team are competitive is exactly what we're trying to Arena. · si~necl, sealed, and delivered, with the caliber of players that do. Mary's proven: that she's "Very few schools in the by Kate Huffman 
D1 Stanislao will have a lot of we're trying to recruit, then the right person to coach the country are trying to market Sports Writer catching up to do 10 the we'll give them scholarships." Notre Dame team.'' women's basketball in the same recruiting trenches. Although Di Stanislao's Wild-Phelps also stresses that be-manner as men's, but we think The Saint Mary's softball 
Molarity 

THAr:S GPAT. THE GUfS 

ITS AB(.)(!T 17M£ .X Ql(., ANI, YOU A51<£b 
I"WOK MY TOWE.L AND HY 
TJV)GJIT TUE.H A Fl)R IT THIS Tl/1£. II 
, CLOTHE.'!-J WHIL£ I ~ 
YoV JJ4AJTfD TO S££ fr?? HER£ IT IS /~1 

ACROSS 34 Time zone 51 Early 19 Satirists Cartoonist letters Britons 24 Hide AI 36 Lengthwise 54 Places for 26 Dominions
The Daily Crossword 
5 Candle 38 Male and games 28 High, in circler female 58 To and-music 9 Fools 39 Spectacular 60 Printing 30 -culpa 14 Tresses fielding direction 31 Sure cure 
15 Discomfort 

play 61 Conferred for tooth· 16 Permission 42 Cog parts 63 Baked clay ache 17 Impulse 43 "-and a 64 Personifi-32 Georgia­18 Watch peculiar cation of 33 Tennis name 
·20 Votes grace" courage 34 Punta del ­21 Pro-44 Baseball 65 Globule 35 Mdt 22 
Purpose stat 66 Agitate 37 Clerical 23 Difficul· letters 67 Cupidity wear ties 45 Icelandic 68 Wiles 38 Dismantle 
25 Rich cake work 69 -and for 40 Greek 27 -bene 46 School all letter 29 Abode: abbr. subj. 
41 Metal strap "1-man 47 Ali-DOWN 46 Turkish .
30 

with seven 49 Non-skid 1 Piece regiment wives" shoe part 2 Baseball's 48 Small cafe Hank 49 Quoted Monday's Results 3 Like some 50 Deal with 
feet 52 Expressing 4 Magician's purpose word 53 Memorial 5 Beechnuts pillar and acorns 54 Hosiery 6 Singing problem group 55 Alaska 7 Hangover before 
time state­8 -and haw hood: abbr. 9 Straighten 56 Author 
10 Mailed James 11 Cruel count 57 Be overly 12 Tied fond 
13 Spanish 59 Advantage All Rights Reserverl 
• © 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 

4/22/80 painter 62 Desert wear 
TIPPECANOE PLACE RESTAURANT
TUESDAY 
IS NOW HIRING RESTAURANT PERSONNEL
APRIL22 
full or part time:day and night shifts 7pm-3am 
high wages; excellent benefits training:classroom and on the job cordial atmosphere 
FOOD WAITERS AND WAITRESSES BUSBOYS/BUSGIRLS COCKTAIL WAITRESSES DISHWASHERS BROILERCOOKS HOSTESSES BARTENDERS PREP COOKS MAINTENANCE MEN 
APPLY IN PERSON BETWEEN II:00 am &6:00 pm MONDAYTHRU S.A.TURDAY AT EOE-M/F
TIPPECANOE PLACE 620 W. Washin~ton Ave South Bend, Ind. 
by Michael Molinelli 
MITCH MY MOTHER AND MY FATHER. MoM AND ~ 

team and the Notre Dame organization will clash in a doubkheader this afternoon at O'Brien Park in South Bend. The opener of the rwin bill will begin at 6:30p.m. 
The Norre Dame squad, cur­rently a student interest group, has applied for and will hope· fully, says captain Karen Alig, gain club status before the team takes to the field again next spring. 
Under the direction of coach Brant Hackmann, a 1951 Notre Dame Grad, the ream has accumulated a 1-3 record rhus far this season. The Irish lost an opening twin bill to Grace College earlier in the season and split another doubleheader with St. Francis on Sunday. 
Probable starting pitchers today for the Irish are juniors Kathy McMahon and Debbie Romo. 
Saint Mary's will enter the twin bill in an effort to reach the .500 mark. (The team's current record is 2-4.) 
Plagued by errors, the Belles lost to Butler University, 11-0, last Thursday in the first game of a three-team round robin tournament held in Indianapo­lis. Mary Beth Hosinski pitch­ed a one-hitter for Saint Mary's but theBelle defense failed to give support, accumulating 14 errors in the outing. · 
The Belles turned things around in their second day, scoring a decisive 21-1 victory over Saint Mary's-of-the­Woods. The Belles chalked their 21 runs on 13 hits, including a homerun and a double by Hosinski. Sopho­more Leslie Roberts went three for three in the night cap, knocking in three runs for Saint Mary's. 
In the night cap pitcher Mary Bayless hurled a no-~it­ter. The Evanston, Ill. native gave up just four walks while striking out 10 opponents. 
Saint Mary's coach Sc~>tt Beisel expects to go w1th Hosinski as the starting pitcher for the opener while Bayless 
will go to. the mound in game 
two.

r-------, 
1 Try to be present I 
1  ()~server  I  
II  Sports staff: meeting  II  
I  TONIGHT  I  
I.I  at 6:30p.m~  II  

I ifyou cannot attendl 
.________
I · call Beth I 
• 
/ 

The Observer Tuesday, April22, 1980 -page 9 
At Kepler Invite 
Golf team finishes seventh 


(continued from page 12) 
setters were a three hour marathon by sophomore Tom Robison at number six singles (6-7, 7-5, 7-5) and a well played 6-4, 4-6, 6-4 victory by Harris at number two singles. 
On the last point of Harris' second set, the senior captain 
ag~ravated a severe groin pull whicn he suffered last Tuesday agatnst Purdue. "When he went down, I thought it was all over," said one teammate. "I thought we were going to have to carry him off the court. I should have known better, though. Carlton is such a tough com_eetitor. He's play without a leg If he felt he had to.'' 
Harris limped through not only the remainder of his singles match, but through the victorious doubles competition as well. 
Getting a team or representa­tive into the NCAA tournament is no easy task since only 16 teams advance to Athens, Ga., competition, one from each of the eight districts and eight at-large bids. An additional 32 doubles teams go as well as 64 singles players, although many of the singles and doubles competitors hail from the team competitors. 
Most participants will come from the nation's tennis-mad regions -the south and far west. The District 4 team representative will no doubt be the Big Ten champion, proba­bly Michigan, who defeated the Insh, 9-0, in the season opener 
in Ann Arbor.  ·  
"I  sure  would  like  to  play  
Michigan  and Wisconsin  (the  

Irish lost to the Badgers, 3-6, in Madison early last month) a­gain,'' says Fallon. ''This is not the same team that lost to them indoors two months ago. I know we're capable of beating Wis­
.,.. -. • I.., n "1 ~·
·~ 

consin and I think we'd even give Michigan a run for their money." 
The season goals of 20 wins and an NCAA tournament re­presentative remain within reach as the Irish must win seven of the remaining eight matches to ·notch their second consecutiv¢ 20-win campaign. The number one doubles unit has continued to look impres­sive, winning its last 12 straight while improving its season slate to 13-2. 
''What if we win the rest of our matches," asked freshman number one singles man Mark McMahon. "I sure hope the selection committee won't com­pletely overlook a team that's 21~2. Maybe we aren't as good 
by Bzll McCormi~k Sports Wn'ter 

The Notre Dame golf team traveled to Columbus, Ohio last Friday to compete in the three-day, 54-hole Kepler Invi­tational. Notre Dame finished a respectable seventh in a 23­team field consisting of schools from the Big 10 and Mid American conferences and ma­jor Midwest independents. 
Indiana, who led . for the entire tournament, won with a score of 1137, just three strok­es ahead of Ohio State. The Buckeys, host school for the Kepler and the perennial class of Big 10 golf, had won the last six Kepler Invitationals. 
After Friday's rounds, the Irish were nestled in fifth place with an 18-hole score of 393. 
The Irish demonstrated their consistency on Saturday as they managed another 393, but two other teams were throwing lowernumbers.Ohio University 
(378) and Michigan State (384) came out of nowhere.on Satur­day to bump Notre Dame into seventh place. John Lund­gren's 76 was the low.round for the Irish. 
Going into Sunday's third and final round, Notre Dame was still in a good position t~ challenge Michigan ·State and 
... Irish 

as Michigan, but at least Carl­ton and Herb deserve consi­deration." '­
Before they talk about any trip to Athens, however, the Irish have seven more hurdles to clear, startins with tomorrow's match with visiting Hawaii at 3 p.m. 
"I don't know much about Hawaii's team," admits Fallon, "but I do know that they play an 80-match schedule that be­gins in December and includes two treks to the mainland. With those kind of figures, you almost have to have a super team to justify the expense. 
"We'll be the first stop on this stay for them," he adds, "and considering jetlag, etc., that could be an advantage for us.'' 
Lacrosse Club drops two 
The Notre Dame Lacrosse Club travelled to Columbus Ohio over the weekend to play perhaps the two toughest games on its schedule. The weekend resulted in a pair of losses as Denison University, 
eighth-ranked in Division III, 
defeated the Irish 19-ll on 
Sunday. The Irish also suffered 
a 15-8 loss to the Columbus 
Lacrosse Club on Saturday. 
The Columbus club jumped out to a 10-2 halftime lead as former Ohio State all-American Terry Gilmore powered the offense. After shaking off travel lag the Irish responded by outscoring Columbus 6-5 in the second half. 
) oining Gilmore with hat tncks for the Columbus club were Zabeck and Nazerec, former all-American players with Bowlin~ Green and Deni­son, respecttvely. Seniors Mike Caron and BrettJackson led the ' Irish attack, Caron scoring a hat trick of his own while Jackson added a pa[r of goals from the midfield. Sophomores Mike Lynch and Steve Linehan each added a goal and an assist for the Irish. 
Captain Nick Gehring played a tremendous game on Sunday, scoring three goals and five assists while playing with a badly bruised arm. Mike Lynch also played an excellent game scoring four goals while mid­fielders Carl Lundblad and Dan Pace each chipped in two goals and an assist. 
The two losses leave the Irish at 6-~ for the season with two home games upcoming during the An Tostal weekend. The Irish play the Detriot Lacrosse CLub at 1 p.m. on Saturday then face Purdue ar 2 .p.m. on Sunday. 
Ohio Univer~ity for fifth Place 
''What was interesting was that we had some mediocre scores and we were still in contention,'' said coach Noel 0'Sullivan. 
On Sunday the winds picked up a little and the Kepler site, the famed Scarlet Course, exhi­bited why it is considered such a treacherous layout. 
''The course played its long­est and toughest on Sunday." said O'Sullivan. 
Ohio University and Michi­gan State came in with 400 and 401 respectively, yet Notre Dame could manage no better than 400 either. 
Once again John Lundgren paced the Irish with a round of 7!. When added to hi_s pre­viOus two rounds, Lundren's tournament total came to 228, earning him an impressive nmrh place in the individuai standings. 
"Our real nemesis at-the Kepler was ourselves, not our opponents," reflected O'Sulli­van. "We didn't have a hor round, and the teams that finished ahead of us did. We were flabbergasted that we couldn't throw that real good number as a team.'' There are still three big toutll· aments ahead of the Irish, who hope to receive a bid to the NCAA nationals-the Purdue Invitiational this weekend, the Mid-American Invitational and the Spartan InvitationaL 
We're just statting to play," 0'Sullivan optimistically point­ed out. "But we're going to need outstandingly high finish­es in the three remaining tournaments if we hope to gain an NCAA l:iid." 
... Bookstore 
[continued from page 12) 
~e~s V, -21-16 aespite Phil Pozderac's six points and strong pl<iy ms~de for the lose~s. Greg Knafel had five for Strappamasquon wht~e teammate M~ke Petrokowski also tiJ?ped in a qumtet. 
Tlffi Healy and Bill Copeland had five pomts apiece to pace Head Over Heels to a 21-11 win over Dismal But Daring. Healy displayed the court sense and savvy that he is known for to move ~is team into the tournament's final 32 teams. Sian Sheft had four for the losers. 
Tim Tripp is quickly establishing himself as a force to be reckoned wtth in this year's tournament. He hit eight of his 15 s~ots and, spurred by the encou~agement ·of Dave Waymer, his btg~estfan,led theJacksonless Five to a 21-18 win over the tough Whtz Kids of Grace Hall. 
Despite the ab.sence of coach Tracy Jackson, (where was he, 
anyhow?) the Ftve fought back from a four-point deficit to overcome the tough Whiz Kids late in the game. Gary Grassey had four for the losers. 
Cl.assified Nads defeated Band of Drunken Jerks, 21-10. Bo Ellis c<;>ntmued to have the hot hand for the Classified bunch, hitting etght of 15 shots. Joe Gruber had six for the winners while Graham Crawford's five was high for the Band. 
Theo and the HM's advanced to the final 32 by virtue of a 21-13 wi~ ove~ Md's of Brie~. Dan C!lrey paced Thea with eight points while Ttm Foley contnbuted SIX buckets and 15 rebounds. Rick Lattimer had seven and Bitz Husic had four for the !users. 
Action gets underway this afternoon at 4:45 on all three sites. A complete schedule of today's games is featured on SpottsBoard here in The Observer. 
...... 
SOlDIER STORAGE SPACE Speciollhscoat for ND 101d SMC students, 259-0335 :SeU Lock Storage ot McKinley 816East Mclinley Mishawaka- 
I I '  PREP \PE FOR: J~~:~ MCAT •·DIT•LSIT •BMAT 8Rf.•GRE PSYCH· 'RE BID  OUR )  
I -· i'  PCIT•OCIT• liT· UAT ·SAT 1MBI,H.m·ECFM&•FLEM•IQE NDB I, U • NPB I• NLE Flexible Programs l HL ,,.. . Visit Any Center And See Fvr Yourself Why We Melee The O#tferer:ce lffltj:EOUCATIONAL CENTER291-3150 TEST PIIEI'AIIATION  \  
&LISTS SINCE IIIU : Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOL~. 00..223-1112 Centers In More Tltln 80 Major US Cities Puerto Rico, Tor011t~. tanada & LUQIJIO Swltzerlllld  

~-e_O__hs_e_rv_e_r_________________________________________________T~u~~a~y~,A~pru~·~2~2~,~19:8~0~-~pa~g~e~10~ 
Sports Briefs.__ 
Gervin gets S 5.1 million for life 
SAN ANTONIO, Texas (AP)-San Antonio Spur~ ')fflCials, stung by a "poor boy" imagr-in the media, tried changing that stance yesterday by revealing they had offered unhappy star George Gervin a $5.1 million lifetime contract. Gervin, 27. the National B:lsketball Association's top scorer for the past thH:e seasons, often has expressed his displeasure with h1s $350,000-per-year-contract. The conrract has three years left, but pays Gervin only about one-third of what some NBA super~ tars earn. 
Inter hall soccer nears finals 
In a controversial decision the Off-Campus and Farley women's soccer teams tied 1-1 yesterday. The actual play outcome resulted in a 2-1 win for OC. Varsity basetball
-player Molly Ca~hman scored one for Off-Campus as did Jenny Durkm. Tnsh McManus, also an Irish basketball star tapped in Farley's goal The Off-Campus-Farley score wa~ place~ under protest with accusations filed against OC. The !~am IS charged ~1th usmg a player from Breen-Phillips. lournamem offic1als opted to declare the game a tie, causmg an overtime penod to be played today. In other inrerhall co~petition McCandless fell to Walsh 1-0. Sue Kunkel talbed the only goal. Today's action has Lewis matchmg up with Bree-Phillips while Holy Cross meets Badin. 
Rodgers wins 84th Boston Marathon . . 
BOSTON. Mass. (AP)-Wiry Bill Rodgers, admittecHy "fn·aked our and drying in the end," pur away his chief rivals ar the halfway mark and turned the 84th Boston Marathon into his private race yesterday in easily winning for the fourth time. ' 
Bruins win in overtime 
UNIONDALE,_ N.Y. (AP)-l_'erry O'Reilly, who set up the goal by R1ck M1ddleton that torced overtime, scored on a 2q-foot shot at 17: 13 of overtime and gave Boston a 4-3 triumph l~st r~1ghr over _thl New York Islanders, keeping the 
the Naltonal Hockey League playoffs. The in this;their But O'Reilly took a pass from 
au ice-hugging past the goalie's right ieg. · 
TTENTION 
JUNIORS SOPHMORES 
&FRESHMEN 
Soccer team wrins scritnm.age, 4-0; boasts "new-'' coach, attitude 
by Beth Huffman Sports Eaitor 
A warm afternoon was ju.->t 
the atmosphere Rich Hunter, 
head soccer coach for the Irish 
needed to get a brief spring 
season started in the right 
~anner. Notre Dame easily 
dtsposed of the Sheridan Col­
lege Bruins, 4-0, while boast­
ing a "changed" coach and 
healthy Ed O'Mallely. 
Hunter credits a change in 
his personal attitude as one of 
the key strategic moves init­
iated this spring. 

''I'm trying not to put so much pressure on the guys,'' said the usually verbal Hunter. :'Hopefull~, a positive change 111 my attltude can serve to' make their attitude better. I am trying to give them construc­tive criticism when they come off the field along with some encouragement.'' 
O'Malley, who scored two 
goals yesterday, returned to the Irish line up for the first time since September. O'Mal­ley suffered a broken right leg in the first game of the 1979 fall campaign. The Massape­que, N.Y., native rested the injury for five months before beginning rehabilitation train­ing for the spring season. 
"I didn't play as well as I can," said O'Malley. "playing again takes a little getting used to after the broken leg.'' · ''The team as a whole looked especially good," O'Mallt>ly continued, ''The first team played only 30 minutes, so the second line played a lot. Steve Kramer and Steve Burgoon did 
a good job." 

Burgoon did, indeed, excel against the Bruins, scoring one of the four team goals. Sami Kahale rounded out the Irish point attack, taking credit for a goal and two assists. 
"Today at times, when things went wrong, he didn't say anything," said O'Malley after Hun•er's silem-treatment tactics. "lrealize h~ knew what happened, but he knew when things \\-ere wrong. It was just a matter ·)f a fev. physical mistakes. · 
Irish nores: The Sf•Ccer team took to the Stepan field with a casual and friendlv <Jtmosphert> ...ki~s playing in. the goal and one ltttle uke borrowtng Rich Hunter's pen for autographs.. that pen and pad supply could have best been used to collect ~ob Golic's script. The two­ume football All-American line backer was one of a scattering of Irish fans. 
Erving says 

76ers must stop Bird 
theirNational Basketball Associ­BOSTON (AP)-"We~! play ation playoff series at oneLarry Bird better. rougher, next victory apiece. 
time,'' promises Julius Erving of the Philadelphia 76ers. "We' Bi~d took 30 shots and played "We're not going to let individ­46 mtnutes. both well above his 
uals beat us." norm and Erving figures this may eventually work to the
Bird, Boston'~ brilliantrookie Sixer's advantage in the best-offorward, was the dominant seven Eastern Conference fin­
force with 31 points and 12 rebounds Sunday as the Celtics a!s w~ich ~esume Wednesday 
mght 10 Phtladelphia.

beat the Sixers 96-90 to even 
AtIllini Classic 
Miranda leads Irish runners 
by Matt Huffman Sports Wn"ter 
"OveralL the mee[ went ··rell," ::.aid co:1c•·, Jr~ Piane, describing the N(me Damt> track team's performance at Saturday's Illini classic "Well" seems to be a slight understatement since eight Iris~ competirors placed in the tield. There were Po •ear. ~ scores kept. bw tilf' Irish performanc' voutc! h'lve placed them "qbout :n the m:ddle" of th(· 27-reair. tieid according to Pawe. 
Nor suprisingly, tnc h1ghe:;f finisher for tile Irish wa::. senior· co-captain Ja~' Mirand:·. ·'·1 ir anda placed r hit d in the ;e1: competitive cOO-meter evnt. Right bebinci, .11 1:4lJ. wa,-, fellow senioi" Chm:k Aragon who shaved nearly a second oft his best timt' 1n the half-mile distance. ··Both Aragon and Miranda ran their best rimes yet rhis year,'' exclaimed an excited Piane. "We expect both should get rhe1r times riown b.r e-r.ough to qualify for the NCAA championships." 
Perhaps the best h ish effo~t came in the ),000-meter run. Senior Ke .,-in Kenny and soph­omore Tony Harherly placed in the distance event. BL'th ran what Pianc termed "competi­rive c\ents. · 
These t'Vv guys have been :::oming t.t:rough so well tor us all vear ·' added Piane '' R.ighr no~ they are St<inin~ t~ gel. ! guarantee they will br r•J•lning in the NCAA's in fllOf:: .. 
Mark Novak placed m the 10,00(1-merers and ran well enough to qualify tor the ICAAA meet in May. Other lrisr. !·ibbon winners included Dear: Jacob in the 400-merer-.; Da' :: · Bernards in rhe htgh hurdle-.. and Ahmad Kazim1 in the tr;ple jump. 
The n:iddle-of-the-pack finish in the week<·nd meet might appear to be a letdown after :l firH -rlace tin ish a week earlier in the Arbfl.>as State Invirarional. Piane 1'oints out, however. rh:H the te.<m actually improved .-:nee the /\SU meet. 
"This ""' J. much more ·competiti ...•neet·in ·:li aspects. The rime:.. vcre cor.:narable to 
all the bt. ~ meets, ~ricluding, 
the Kansas Kelays, ·' explained Piane ·w;c-have l-.-~n stead­ily improvlll~ since the beginn­ing ot the i·e~r Jnll Saturday was ,·ig;H •)D set... dule wl! h what w;. -~;; tryifl~ ~odo­make a g._:-;d sh ;·.nng m tln: NCA.\ fi•<lL." 
A gootl .~howing in June will notn)me .:.1.,;ly, net,,> mention qualifying f(,r the •I•t:et. Yet Piane sef·ms confiJ,·nt that ir can bed····' The t1 ··~h Drakt> Relays wi~' 1mwirlt: , measur­ing stick fo;· tlw. irish t-his weekenJ 


HELP W ANTEDt1. 
Ouradvertisin~· sales staffis expanding and we want you. Liberal commissions 
andflexible hours available. 
call7471 for further information 

a & u 
The Observer Tuesday, April22, 1980 -page 11 
Baseball 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Yesterday's games 

Pittsburgh 7, Montreal 1 
New York 3, Philadelphia 0 
Cincinnati 6, Houston 5 
Los Angeles 4, San Francisco 3 
Only games scheduled 
Today's games Pittsburgh (Bibby 1-0) at Montreal (Sanderson ·1-01 St. Louis (B. Forsch 0-1) at Chicago (Lamp 2-0) New York (Hausman 0-1) at Philadel­phia (Ruthven H), (n) San Dieao (Curtis H) at Atlanta (P. Niekro Q-3), (n) Cincinnati (Pastore 2-0) at Houston (K. Forsch 2-Q), (n) San Francisco (Knepper H) at Los Angeles (Sutton 0-0), (n) 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Yesterday's games Boston 9, Chicago 8 Milwaukee 7, Cleveland 5, 11 innings New York 3, Baltimore 2 Texas 3, Detroit 2 Toronto 7', Kansas City 1 Oakland 4, Seattle 2 Today's games Chicago (Burns 1-0) at Boston (Torrez 0-1) California (Frost 2-0) at Minnesota (Zahn Hl 
Cleveland (Barker 1-0) at Milwaukee (Caldwell 1-0), (n) Baltimore (McGregor 0-0) at New York (Griffin (o-1). (n) Detroit (Rozema 0-1) at Texas (Jenkins 1-0), (n) Toronto (Mirabella 1-0) at Kansas City (Splittorff 1-0), (n) Oakland (Kingman H) at Seattle (Honeycutt 2-0), (n) 
Hockev 
-' 
QUARTERFINAL ROUND 
Best-of-Seven 
Monday's game 
Boston 4, New York Islanders 3, OT, 
Islanders lead series 3-1. 
Tennis 
Notre Dame 5, Northwestern 4 Singles 
No. 1 -Paul Wei (NU) del. Mark McMahon 6-4, 6-4. No. 2 -Carlton Harris (N D) del. Mike Balkin 6-4, 4-6, 6-4. No. 3 -Joey Rosenberg (N U) del. Herb Hopwood 1-6, 6-2, 6-3. No. 4 -Mark Hoyer (NO) del. Bill Schaeffer 7-6 (5-3), 4-6, 6-4. No. 5 -Tom Hartzell (NO) del. Steve Quamme 6-2, 3-6, 6-4. 

No. 6 -Tom Robison (NO) del. Tom O'Fiynn 6-7 (1-5), 7-5, 7-5. 
Doubles No. 1 -Harris/Hopwood (NO) del. Wei/Balkin 7-5, 3-6, 6-4. • No. 2 -Rosenberg/Ouamme (NU) del. 
McMahan/Hoyer 6-3, 6-4. No.3-Schaeffer/O'Fiynn (NU) del. Jim Falvev/Tim Noonan 6-2, 6-2. 
Bookstore 

Theo & the H M 's over Mds. of Brick by 
8. 
Boy 2 over Sir Vic's by 7. 
Clinton Core's...over Lights Out by 4. 
U.S. over Nebo Giants by 9. BUITS over Humour...by 10. SMC ...over Irish Guard ...by 7. Hill's Angels over 3 O'Clock shooters 
by 8. Mitch's & Rich's...over Cheaters by 
5. 
McNamara's Band over Probation by 2. 
Morgan's ...over Johnny Snotball's.. .by 2 (OT). Born to Run over Pink Flamingo by 4. Coneheads over Riverfront Col. by 2 
(OT). Head over Heels over Dismal but Daring by 10. Incredibly Edibles over Dribbling ...by 9. White Shadows over Wrec.<ing Ball. .. by5. • Defending Chumps over Dillonese Sky­walkers by 10. Sean Cilia's...over Stoney Lee ...by 5. 
P.F. & Flyers over Dr. Dunk...by 16. Strappamasquon ...over Nutmeggars v 
by 5.· Buzzards over Smirks by 3. Janye Kennedy over Elton Moore ...by
3. 
Back for More over Purple...by 6. Irish Guards Ill over Rosie's School by
8. 
Much Later W.E.B. over Wiley Brown 
by 7. Jacks9nless 5 over Whiz Kids by 4. McGuire's A.C.C. over Honk Haley by
11. Mutants over Vassar Arafat by 4. Return to Sweetness over Carver High
by 2. Assassins over Instant. .. by 6. Knack, Whack...over Hurtin'... by 2 
(OT). This is. , .over Nickerzesters by 10. Classified Nads over Band of ...by 11. 
Defending Chumps vs. Back for More BK 9-5:30 Classified Nads vs. Mutants... Lyons 11 "4:00 Much Later W.E.B. vs. Return to Sweetness BK 10-5:30 Knack, Whack...vs. Irish Guards Ill BK 10-4:45 
P.F. and the Flyers vs. This is the ...BK 9-4:45 Clinton Core's Cagers vs. Hill's Angels Lyons 12-6:45 Strappamasquon. . .vs. McNamara's Band BK 9 -6:45 Born to Run vs. Coneheads Stepan 1 ­6:45 
Jacksonless 5 vs. Head over Heels BK 10 "6:45 
Incredibly Edibles vs. White Shadows Stepan 2 -6:45 Buzzards vs. Jayne Kennedy's...Ste-pan 3-6:45 
US vs. Buits Stepan 4 -6:45 
Boyz vs. SMC...BK 10-4:0000 

Sean Cilia's Express vs. Mitch's and Rich's ...BK 9-4:00 Morgan's...vs. Theo and the ...Stepan 6-6:00 AI McGuire's A.C.C. vs. Assassins Kyons 11 -6:45 
lnterhall , 
INTERH-ALL TENNIS TOURNAMENT Singles Champion Kevin Gandhi (Grace) Runner-up R1ch Temofeew (Dillon) Doubles Champions Steve Riney and Dave Mountain (Keenan; Runners-up John Bach and Dommie Tricome (Fisher) 
Team Prints Keenan 
24
Fisher 
20
Grace 
16
Dillon · 
13 
Morrissey 
12 
Alumni 
9
Cavanaugh 
8
Stanford 
8
Grace 
4 

Classifieds  All classifieq ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office wilt accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail.  
Off campus housing 6 bedrooms ( with locks) rented separately. Free laundryNotices and kitchen superior rated. Available Will do typing. Neat, Accurate. Call for summer and fall. 291-1405 287-5162 Thank you. . For Summer. Pleasant apt. for one.---------------­Professional Typing. Reasonable Good neighborhood close, swimming rates. 291-0495. Experier. typing pool. $125/mo. Phone 6585----------------­thesis. journal articles. Several Hous~; for rent Summer only. Reasonable rates; will negotiate de­Typing done in my home. University pending on the number of students callPark Area. 277-3085 Greg Cress after 7:00pm 287-5361 Professional Typing Service. Any size job, accurate, prompt, dependable. Term papers, Reports, Manuscripts. For Sale Barron Services 1408 Eiwood South Bend 289-7949 '77 camera. silver wI black interior, small V-8 engin, AM-FM cassette, Typing Plus. Term papers. theses, airconditioning. $3,000 or best offer. dissertations. Light editing. ghost Call Mickey at 7838 writing. Literary search, bibliograph­ies, genealogies. Job resume service. 1978 Camara, light blue, automatic, Sliding rate scale based on lead time. straight 6 cylinders, very good gas Special discounts on full contracts for mileage, stereo 8 track, excellent theses and dissertations. aardVark condition only $3,500 Call 277-2462 automatic solutions/ p.o. box 1204 46624 phone (219) 289-6753 1978 Firebird Formula Silver exterior with appearance package. Red inter­Overseas Jobs-Summer I year round. ior. Loaded Excellent condition. CallEurr·pe, S. America, Australia, Asia, 41-4721 (AM) and 277-5338 (PM).Etc. All fields, $500-$1,200 monthly. Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free ---------------­1977 Camara. silver 28,000 miles, •information. Write I·JC Box 52-14 automatic on console, small V-8 getsCorona Del Mar. Cal. 92625 18 mpg city, stereo 8-track. $3,600; 1978 LeMans. maroon. 20.000 miles, automatic small V-6 gets 21 mpg city, AM-FM stereo-front and rear speak­Lost&Found ers. $3200. Both are in excellent condition. Call Lewis at 12.34 week­Found: at Beaux Arts Ball; wrist­days, or 288-2961 evenings and week­watch, silver necklace, tie and ban­ends.dana. Contact Archit. Office to identify, between 8-12, 1-5. Gleim CPA Review. Vols 1 and 26th Edition. No marks $25 00 Call SteveLost NO class ring LMO '81 If found 4392 evenings.call Matt 1751 1979 Trans AM-GM executive CarWallet in Washington Hall or area ... $6900 Call 282-2179lost Saturday ~vening. I. D. included. Reward. Call 8936 For Sale: Receiver 35 watts per channel 2V2yr. warranty Call GregLost: Pair of silver-wire glasses in a 3678green case labeled Mom. in business building. Call Kathy 6793 For Sale: 2 tix for John Denver Padded Seats. Best offer Chris 8102Lost: Blue Alpine Backpack with Cathy 41-4430important notebooks and texts. Lost before break. Reward! Call 3324 WantedLost: Timex Gold face and trim watch with a brown wristband. Call 3234 ask for Bob Need ride to I.U. (Bloomington, IN) for Little 500. Can .leave any time on Lost: a pair of glasses if found call Friday Call Ed 1820 Kathy 41o1 Need a roommate for summer campus vies. Call greg 3223 Need a ride to RUSH concert in Fol'tFor Rent Wayne, April 28, 3463 Need ride to Yellowstone Park, Wy.House for rent near Notre Dame 2 by May 26 for summer job. Will share bedrooms alum. siding garage. Refer­expenses. Call Scott 1738 or 1697 ences and Security Deposit Call 233­9088 I need 1 Measley graduation ticket Rooms • Now and/or Summer. $40 ~~~~~~~~~E1~~--­month. 233-1329. Females to share local ·house for this summer Erin 6967Work tor me, live for free this summer 277-3604. 288-0955 Urgent: wnated-one bassist and once lead vocalist, male or female, for rockFurnished houses or rooms for rent band (stones, ZEP, Rush, Beatles). Tothis summer, close to campus, very start immediately call Dan or Jack atreasonable 277-3604 288-0955 1766 NOW!!! Furnished tour oedroom house, couple Goalie, two players needed for springblocks from campus, tor next school soccer team 277-4482 283-6614 year 277-3604 or ~88-0955  Wanted: Yearbook--any recent non­Notre Dame yearbook. Ca'l Tim 288-6748 ~-ie~-!1att-&fl.a.~~a for Summer. Call Damian at 1197 please. -----~---------­Looking for a female to share an apartment in Washington D.C. this summer If interested, call Theres Anne-7920 Personals 1980 "Winter Olympic" Marlboro Ranchcoats for sale. An Amazing Buy $22.00! Mens, Womens Sizes, Call 283-1430, 288·5891 evenings. Penguin, Siberia has thawed I The icebergs have melted, the snow has vanished. The sun now beats down on a large body of water. I can't wait to get back to some hilly country and dry land: this scuba equipment is getting un­comfortable. Denise would like it here. Love, Stuck in Siberia Tawn Schuster, Have you been drinking any "Mar­garitas" l.n "Beverly" lately. Brender & Eddie Ryan Ver Berkmoes, Actually We're the ones who are taking bets on you! We picked Senior formal. ---------~-----­Tom, Did they deliver my roses to Moonraker or to "Beverly" by acci­dent? • Mike Traush and Julie Sigmund. Happy belated anniversary! All your "friends" Usa. ince you haven't had a personal in awhile, I t~ought the time was rille! I mainly wanted ~o say the kidnapping was great in spite of the trouble. Just one request -never AJain/ Love you, Mary Dear Dad, Hope you had a Happy Birthday! Sorry I didn't get this in earlier. Tom Holy Cross Hall-SMC Please Vote Pres -Debbie Mardol an Vice Pres-Nancy Son ego Holy Cross Haii-SM C Please Vote Pres-Debbie Mardolan Vice Pres-Nancy Sonego---------------­Don't Miss country rockin' Straight Flush tonight at Vegetable Buddies • ­Francesca Katter -"Kecka" Happy 22nd Birthday­You're terrific! Love, K. This is it! The big day! Today is Paul (that's Pawl) Somelofske's 19th birth­day. Pucker Lip for those birthday· kisses ladies I Give this hometown boy from East Islip a call at 8649 or stop in at 220 Sanford to help him celebrate the big day!  Ugliness is next to Ezzlness Found: Girls watch on north quad call K.A.F., Brendan at 8951 Of course ther~ 's nr. reason for you to know me, but I guess there are Lisa LaSalle, reasons for me to know you. Time's Here's looking at you kik.(famous running out and still don't know what line). I'll do. Ricke By the way why did you want know if Celebrate Earth Day; turn your roomI went to Chicagc or not? jnto a compost pile.A.R. Barry Com:noner is a twit! MCCandless! Gugle Nuke the Whales!Hulley Nuke the Whales!McCandless! Nuke the Whales! Yea IllYour Senior Year can be free of worries. Mark W.Vote:Beckman, Krauss, Welsh, Daisies h.we been known to makeMurray even very hurt people smile. ( Hint) McCandless! Yocius is Atrocious Gugle Hulley Applications for Homacoming chair~ McCandless! man, Nazz Business Manager, and Nazz 0irector are available in the Attention Logn Islanders Student Union Office. There will be an important meeting for the Long Island Club on Tues. April To the entire cast and crew of The 22 at 6:30 P.M. in the Little Theatre of Pilgrim,Lafortune • Elections will be held. Thanks for all the kindness and support.Barb, The dancer Thanks for a wonderful time Satur­day. I hope you get "tucked in" Happy 20th Birthday Marybeth Bren­properly. nan. She will te accepting birthdayLove, kisses all day.Kevin To my roommate Wall Carnivai!!!Rides, fun, and excite­We ought to get together sometime ment! Sednesday-Sunday, near Ste· Budd pan Center. ~--------------­Silly You,Tree, Don't have any fun, good times, etc.nHave a happy birthday. And you on your b-day. You are not perfect orsaid you never get a personal! even anywhere close. Let's not try to­Silly me, go to another formal sometime soon.T.L. No affection at all, Sillier meBill l<.atzenberger for UMOC. If you Nere that ugly, wouldn'-t you want to Dan Hussey is os ugly that he fsbe rewarded? covered with welts from being touched with a ten foot pole Hussey is UMOCEric Small where have you been all my lite? Yocius Is Atrociuous TO THE DRIBBLIN UVULA'S Tree,GOOD LUCK TODAY. KEEP I didn't forget H.B.YOUR CHINS UP AND DON'T DROOL ALL OVER THE PLACE! ANNE Ezze is slezzy loves Ryan Ver Bark· moes To Sami and the women of BP Looking tor two pc:.ssen[jers to flyWe are tough and we are mean we'll round.trip to Gattlinburg (Knoxvillebeat you Tuesday at six fifteen area). Tenn. Dirt cheap, more thanLewis Hall reasonable price for this wonderful scenic trip with six-hour layover. WillThe Lewis soccer team wishes a fair game and a farewell to the women of return same day. Call Bernie Wenin­B.P. ger 8941 or Phil 8350. Vote for pure ugliness Vote Ezze ugly Yocius is atrocious man on campus. To the Beaux Arts goers ...looking tor , Patsy -ducks on the island. Sorry you didn't When can I kiss you? find them. Director, Tom The Federal Duck Authority and the Naplam Lover Tom-After you give me a ring and fur. SMC Class of '81. elect Hill Patsy O'Brian Stoll Tom Schuster and Patsy Campbell for Boyle UCOG! (U;liY Couple on Campus(. April24 RVl.  

~ 
.; 

_j 

Tuesday, April22, 1980 -page 12
S~orts 
Di Stanislao takes tap 
Receiving as new-w-omen's coach strength slacks 
by Craig Chval .quarterfinals of the AIA W Divi­Sports Wn"ter sion I national tournaments in each of the past two seasons 
after injuries · 
Nobody had co tell Digger while compiling a 49-9 record Phelps what happened the last over that ·span. time Notre Dame hired a suc­Like Phelps and also like cessful, young coach from Parseghian. Di Stanislao is an 
by Craig Chval

l'1orthwester University. intense competitor. She has 
Sports Wn'ter 

It was after the 1963 football been likened to Phelps, former .easnn, and the Irish, who had Marquette coach AI McGuire, 
Notre Dame's talented trio of111~1 languished through a 2-7 and Indiana coach Bobby receivers was reduced to one:.'unpa_tgn, hadn · t ~een the day­Knight, and although she's not over the weekend when juniortght stdc of. )00 stnce 1958. So sure how valid the comparisons tight end Dean Masztak suf­t'-iotrt· Dame lured fiery Ara are' she rreely admits that they fered a broken hand duringI .u o.;t·ghian away from North­most'iikely have their origin in drills....senior flanker Pete\IT'itcrn -th_e rest is legend. her demonstrative courtside Holohan will miss the remain­M tr.dlul of Parseghia~1's sue­manner. 
der of spring ~;>ractice to con­
' es·.. Phelps tabbed Mary Di ''Coaching philosophy is a • centrate on hts studies. . . 
-.;ta111..,lao as the new loach of very personal thirrg," says the with Nick Vehr still sidelined·lit· :'lit•trt· Dame women's bas­dark-haired Di Stanislao. ''I'm with a compound finger frac­kutJ;tll tc<Ull. Phelps, who as­a very competitive person, and I ture, senior Many Dermer issunH·t~ gem·r;d supervision of expeu my teams to be the same the number one tight end....
the er1ti e Notre Dame basket· way. I thtnk the best way to tell junior Mike Boushka is fillinghall ptogram last month, insist·.; a coach's philosophy is by what. 
in for Holohan at flanker.

tku the connection is more than her team does on the court." coincidenlT. In that case, Di Stanislao is a 
"I Lt'lpnl build my program very successful coach, indeed. l n the srrengtlo of Notre She earned the reputation of a· Damt's football program, and no-nonsense leader while direc­Spring Football '80 we· re hoping that we can do the ting the Wildcats to a pair of same thing with the women's Big Ten titles and captunng the 
program," he said. "Ara was a fancy of the Northwestern cam­The Irish football team practiced goal line and 
The Irish, who have yet to 
great help to me, and I see no pus. third-and-long plays in preparation for the annual Blue-Gold 
hold a full-scale scrimmagereason why the men's and But Notre Dame prides itself game. [photo by Rick Dohn"ng]. 
this s~;>ring, worked again onwomen's programs can't work at finding that happy medium goal ltne situations and alsotogether at Notre Dame." between high academic stan­third-and-long situations. . . 
Di Sranislao comes to Notre dards and athletic excellence, the first-team defense wasDame with an 89-27 career which was a major considera­Bookstore Picks outstanding Saturday afternoon record in five years as the tion for both Phelps and Di ...Mike Courey, working atWild:ats' head coach. The 29-Stanis lao. 
quarterback on the first-stringyear-old graduate of Douglas~ 
Top-Ten: part two
(continued on page BJ · offense along with sophomoreColl:ge led Northwestern to the halfback Phil Carter and class­
Today The Observer contin­but super-quick team. Jaime mate John Sweeney at· fullback :Jes the Bookstore Top-Tf'n Halpin (5-10) and Tom Baldwin was especially impressive in review by Leo Latz. ·are the guards. Bill Copeland the goal line plays. 
jrish tennis team tops 
(6) Jacksonless Five II... This (6-3) played JV basketball at Several defensive players is the only Top Ten team Dayton. Pat Kramer (6-4) were held out of contact Satur­
without a true guard. Tony reigns as ''{.:hairman of the day with nagging injuries... Anderson (6-2), Frank Hopke or boards" for this team. amon~ them were Brendan Mark Norrnan (6-3) bring the (10). Detective Saigon Eddy Moymhan, fighting with Mark ~'Y Michael Ortman Irish the upper hand. ball up by default. Anderson is finds Sleazy Suzy with Bob Zavagnin for a starting outside As_:oc:iate Sports Editor But in the double matches, the an inside and outside scoring DelGenio's Dirty Underwear linebacker spot, and senior 
determined Wildcats rallied threat while Hopke and Norman and another guy in St. Louis.... John Hankerd, a two-year 
EVANS fON, Ill. -With rea­back and breezed by Notre are steady performers. Tiin Again team number 10 gains starter at defensive end. wakened \i'iions of a represen­Dame's number two and three Koegel (6-4) and Tim Tripp notoriety by virtue of an unusual Saturday's afternoon drills, tative trip t 1 • he NCAA tourna­duos in straight sets, leaving (6-5) hold down the rebounding team name. c;redit ~oes to John held in long-awaited magnif­ment d • .tnci.1i~ in its head and the match in the hands of the duties. Cox, Jim Devtne, Mike icent spring weather, drew a strains of ' There Ain't No top doubles teams who had just (7) Born to Run ... This team Silvestro, Tim McGonigle, Jim big crowd to Cartier Field, 
Stoppin' Us :-.Jow" ringing begun their third set. should be able to consistently D' Aquilo, Dan O'Leary and Bob including Vagas Ferguson, theughout thl"" locker room, the Harris and Hopwood broke out fast break with a towering front DelGenio, ofcourse. Willie FfY and Kris Haines. Notre Dame ten 1is ream conti­to an early 3-0 lead in the line consisting of 6-) Paul nued its winning ways Sunday decisive set, bceak ing Paul McMeniman, 6-4 Tom Lang with a nail-bittr.~ ,"-4 victory Wei's serve in the second and 6-5 John Skronski to re-
Northwestern, 5-4 
Bo k dr 
over Northwestern, I the 1979 game. But the Northwestern bou~d for quick ~uards _sean 0 ·StOre OpS tO
Big Ten runne~-up. The win duo fo Wei and Mike Balkin Collins and Mtke Mtller. was the 12th straigh·1·Jr the red turned the t~bles, breaking McMeniman, a transfer stu­hot Irish and imprnv ~d their Hopwood's serve and tying the 
dent, played JV basketball 
at '"Terrift·c 32" t 
season slate to 13-2. score ar three. Seton Hall. Lang was last year's eam.s 
The win was one whic'1 could Both reams held serve in the Hoosier Award Winner despite easily add y·:·ars to a rr.at· 's life next three games, sending Wei a fine outside shot and by Frank LaGrotta , as the Wildcats took their 1 uesr the third-ranked singles player Skronski, a freshman quarter-Sports Wn'ter right down dov. n t<' the wire in rhe district this winter, to the back from the gridiron was a • before final!y fallin~ shurt. baseline to serve again. The high school all-stater. Collins is The ninth annual Dookstore Basketball tournament moved from Notre Dame wac:h Ton Fallo.1, duos battled to a 3-3 tie in the an excellent perimeter shooter the "Sensational64" to the "Terrific 32" yesterday under sunny who cclt·bratnl his Mt 1 birth­game and match point for the and Miller is a former player skies-that delighted the l'ronmen for the fourth day in a row. (Isn't day on Saturday, admirt,·d afttr Irish. "Wei's last serve was from Dave Batton's legendary this South Bend??) thr· rna(( h, "Yesterda} I agea lousy," admitted Harris, "and TILCS. · Tournament commissioner, Rob Simari, reported that he was on year. Today I aged .•nother my return was even worse.'' (8) The Assassins ...The pleased with the proceedin~s and reminded remaining teams that 20." The Irish didn't really care Bailey Brothers are the back-today's games will be offictated. 
It w;t!--the top Iri!--h de u, .tes how they did it, as long as they court tandem while a trio of There were a few surprises on the list pf survivors after tantkrn of Carlron Harri~ and cid ir. Wei proceeded to dunk Cincinnati-area gridiron stars yesterday's action but most of the top seeds managed to advance. lkrb I lopwood that secureel tl.e the ball toward the net and form the frontcourt for this The to~rnam~nt's num~er one team, Defendin~ Chumps, had an victory with a hair-curlmg, wa ched it tearer near the top squad. curt and Scott Bailey easy ~tme wtth the Dtllonese Skywalkers, wmning 21-11. Bill thn-e--..er win over District ·'t­until it\ finally dropped on his were both all-conference hoop-Hanzltk dazzled the crowd with some tenacious rebounding and num x·r thre-~ doubles team in side, hrnding Notre Dame's top sters in Minnesota. (Curt was spectacular shots ~hile sharing scori!lg h<?nors w!th teammate Dan tht' iir1al match concluded 011 NCA1\ tournament hopefuls a also a memeber of Grace Hall's Short. Both Hanzltk and Short had stx pomts while Hanzlik pulled rhe afrc-rnoon. 7-5, 3-6, 6-4 win. second-place interhall team.'' down 11 rebounds. Rusty Lisch had five for the winners while Mike 
The Irish took a commanding "It's too bad such an excel­Tony Hunter (6-5) once ·scored Rush's four was high for the Skywalkers. y<:t rwr win-clinching 4-2 lead lrnt match had to be decided on 40 points in a game at Moeller Morgan's ... continued to roll, defeating Johnny Snotball's, mro the doubles competition, Sllch a cheap point,'' said High School and Bob Crable is 22-20 in overtime. Joey "0" Orfano led all scorers with seven needing just one victory in darris, "but we'll take 'em any the team enforcer from the points, despite the fact that it took him 27 shots to get them. Paul three matches to extend their w:1y we can get 'em." same school. Nick Vehr was his Caron and Roger Mortan each six for the winners while Frank streak. Wins by the dependable The whole Irish effort was an high·school's basketball captain White rook 30 shots and hit nine for the Snotball's. trio at the bottom half of the emotionally draining one, as at nearby St. Xavier. Number four, P:F. and the Flyers took it to Dr. Funk ... 21-5. singles lineup, . Mark P.oyer Notre Dame needed wins in five (9) Head over Heels... This Paul Flood paced his team with seven points while Mike Morris (No. 4), Tom Hartzell (No. 5), of the six three-set matches for team possesses the only other added six. Tom Brown had two for Dr. Dunk ... and Tom Robisori (No. 6), plus the victory. Among the three varsity basketball player in the Strappamasquon and the Combat Womb::~:ts defeated Nutmeg-
an inspiring three-set victory by tourney, 6-2 Tim Healy. Healy
(continued on page 9] headlines this relatively small [continued on page 9]
Harris at number two, gave the 


