
-~ 
I I 
I 
...October, page 2 

Corby's a-waits verdict 
by john M. Higgim 
INDIANAPOLIS-South Bend city officials wound up test­imony in the state hearings con­cerning the renewal of the liquor license ofCorby's Tavern yester­day. City Attorney Richard Hill appeared before the Indiana Alcoholic Beverage Comission to dispute earlier testimony that the city is engaging in a con­spiricy against Corby's and other 
The ABC disputed Corby's conspiracy charges 
bars in the "five-points area" on Eddy and Corby Streets. 
The hearing was the conclu­sion of a series of hearings stem­ming from the local ABC's rec­ommendation last April that Corby's license not be renewed because of the number of vio­lations of liquor laws and numer­ous complaints from neighbor­hood residents that Corby's is a 



NDSG discusses new co·nstitution 
"public nuisance." Final briefs will be submitted by both sides to the Commission on October 21. 
Under direct examination by Assistant City Attorney James Masters, Hill refuted accusations by Corby's Tavern Industries (CTI) officer Harold Rowley that Hill, Mayor Roger Parent, and other city officials have con­spired to shut down Corby's. Hill said that he and Parent had never discussed Corby's specifically, but rather the five-points bar situation in general. 
Hill outlined the procedures his office follows when a license comes up for renewal before the local ABC. When the renewal hearing nears, Hill said, the Police Department forwards to his office any information re­garding legal violations concern­ng the license in question, noting that "in normal course, such reports do not come up until renewaL" This information is then presented before the local board. 
Hill also stated that although he had discussed with Parent special efforts to increase police 

The rise ofcampus crime hasforced bicyclists tofind more semre locking(continued on page 3) qtlflrters, such as this iron statue between the towers. (Photo byjaneAhern) 
By Dan LeDuc Staff Reporter 
The Hall Presidents Council met last night at Dillon Hall to debate the proposed Consti­tution. Student Body President Paul Riehle put the new plan before the council and fielded questions from the group. 
A hand count of the hall representatives showed that thir­teen of the necessary sixteen dorms had already passed the Constitutional ammendment al­lowing the October 9 vote. A referendum before the entire student body is necessary for passage oftht! new Constitution. Over fifty percent of the student body must vote on the referen­dum, and two-thirds must vote in favor of the revised Constitution for the referendum to pass. 
The new Constitution replaces the Board of Commissioners 
'Paper Lion ' recalls professional adventures 
By David Sarphie 
George Plimpton, also known as "The Paper Lion," entertained a capacity crowd last night at the Library auditorium with tales of his many experiences involving professional sports and show business. 

· Plimpton, a graduate of Harvard and Cambridge, des­cribed his occupation as "part­icipatory journalism." As a writer for Sports Illustrated, Plimpton has received a first-hand look at such diverse activities as quarterback­ing a professional football team, pitching in an All-Star game, and boxing the world light heavy­weight champion. 
Plimpton was introduced to this odd profession while a student at Harvard. As an 

. initiation to the campus comedy journal, Harvard Lampoon, Plimpton was required to run in the Boston Marathon. 
Plimpton, however, deviously managed to avoid the first 25 miles of the race. In true Rosie Ruiz fashion, he entered the race several strides behind the leader and only a block from the finish. Although he was out-kicked by the distance runner, Plimpton had discovered a unique way to get close to the professionals. 
In his speech Plimpton also described his first meeting with the great boxer, Muhammed Ali. He had scheduled a three-round exhibition match with the champ. 
(continued on page 6) 

Observer announces mock election times and places 
Tbe Observer announced yesterday the times and places of the balloting for the mock election to be held this Thursday. The election will be held in LaFortune Student Center on the Notre Dame campus, and in LeMans Hall at Saint Mary's, from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
All graduate and undergraduate students are eligible to vote; they must present their student IDs in order to do so. The Observer ballot will reflect the selection presented on the Indiana state ballot. The official choices are as follows: 
US PRESIDENT (Democratic) Jimmy Carter-Walter Mondale (Republican) Ronald Reagan-George Bush (Independent) John Anderson-Patrick Lucey (American) Percy Greaves-Frank Varnum (Citizens) Barry Commoner-LaDonna Harris (Communist) Gus Hall-Angela Davis (Libertarian) Edward Clark-David Koch (Socialist) Clifton DeBerry-Matilda Zimmerman 
US SENATE (Democratic) Birch Bayh (Republican) Danforth Quayle 
US HOUSE (Democratic) John Brademas (Republican) John Hiler 
INDIANA GOVERNOR (Democratic)-John Hillenbrand (Republican) Robert Orr (American) Cletus Artist 
Results will be announced in Friday's Observ.er. , with a re-defined 24-member Student Senate. Major objec­tions to the Student Senate focus around the fact that the Senate will also virtually eliminate the Campus Life CounciL 
"I would say that this body would replace the CLC," said Riehle. However, if there is a future need for the CLC it may be reactivated. 
The SBP said, "the CLC hasn't been the student voice to the administration." Only nine of the nineteen members of the CLC are students. Riehle com­plained that a majority of the time last year the CLC couldn't get a quorum and couldn't ac­complish anything. 

Dillon Hall President and HPC Executive Coordinator, Pat Conklin, expressed concern with "going in circles" between the 
(continued on page 4) 
Sending planes 

U.S. to protect ...Mideast oil 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The United States is 
rushing four special early warning radar planes to ISaudi Arabia to help strengthen the oil-rich country's air defense against a possible spread of the war between Iraq and Iran, the Pentagon 
announced Tuesday. 
In announcing the shipment of the highly 
sophisticated planes, U.S. officials said the de­
ployment is temporary and stressed that the move 
does not mean the U.S. is taking sides in the Iran­
Iraq war. 
"The United States government unequivocally 
reaffirms its position of neutrality," said Pentagon 
spokesman Thomas B. Ross. 
"This deployment is purely for defensive 
purposes. It is designed to track aircraft for the 
purpose of providing additional warning for Saudi 
Arabian defenses," Ross said. 
Saudi Arabia has indicated its support for Iraq in 
the fighting with Iran. However, U.S. defense 
officials said they have no reason to believe the 
Saudis will be relaying to Iraq any military data 
provided by the American radar planes, known as 
AWACS. 
Ross told a Pentagon press briefing the decision 
to deploy the aircraft was made "in response to a 
request from the government of Saudi Arabia." 
,Defense officials said one of the big AWACS 
planes already had taken offfrom Tinker Air Force Base in Oklahoma and that the remaining three would be leaving for Saudi Arabia within hours. 

They said the planes were to fly directly to Saudi Arabia with in-flight refueling, covering the distance in 17 to 18 hours. 
The deployment will involve a total ofabout 300 military personnel, defense officials said. They added t;hat American cargo planes would be making flights to deliver supplies to Saudi ground facilities being used by the AWACS aircraft. 
The AWACS planes, which are modified Boeing 707 jets, carry a fligl)t crew offour plus up to 24 Air Force technical personnel to monitor radar and other electronic gear. 
Defense officials said that after the A WACS planes reach Saudi Arabia, they would be flying their early warning patrols wholly within Saudi airspace. They declined to identify where in Saudi Arabia the planes will be based. 
The AWACS deployment came in response to a formal request made by the Saudi government on Monday, Pentagon officials said, noting that the request followed several days of intensive con­sultations. 
The U.S. offidals said the AWACS planes, with a "look-down down" radar range of 250 nautical miles, will be particularly helpful in bolstering Saudi Arabia's defenses against any possible attack by low flying aircraft. 



News Brie/§ 
Wednesday, October 1, 1980-page 2 
====~==========================================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Sex bare:es have been approved by Rotterdam's city hall as part 0(an all-out effort to cope wit~ prostitution. A spoke~man said the Netherlands proJe,<;t wtll ?e ~anaged by a non-profit foundation, called Explottat10n and Management of Eros and Pleasure Centers," set up by a group of city residents. He said plans called for the barges, concre~e­hulled and engineless, to have about 20 rooms each, along wtth bars and small movie theaters. The two barges will be moored in central areas of this bustling port. City hall will review the project in 10 months. -AP 
Makin!! far~ing orof~~able ~ould 
be the princip~ goal of hts agncultural pohctes as prestdent, Ronald Reagan said in an address to Iowa farmers. "I am convinced that farmers have no desire to return to the policies we had when government, not farmers, decided what would be planted and how much to grow," Reagan said. "But we will not turn our backs on programs that have sought to assure the farmer a reasonable income and the consumer an abundant and reasonably priced supply of food and fiber." In what aides described as a major farm policy address, Reagan described Carter administration farm policies as "Carter's Seven Deadly Agricultural Sins." It was, he said, "a record of indifference, incompetence and inflation. It is a national disgrace." -AP 
A militarv ju~ge sa!d that a? indep~ndentlyappointed board or' psychtatnsts wtll examme Manne Pfc. Robert Garwood before his courtmartial on charges ofdesertion and collaboration with the enemy in Vietnam. The judge, Col. 
R.E. Switzer, on Monday granted a request by prosecutors to require the 34-year-old Marine to undergo another psychiatric examination if he intends to use insanity as a defense. Switzer stipulated that the director of the National Naval Medical Center at Bethesda, Md., will name the board. He said at least one member will be a doctor with experience in dealing with prisoners of war. Pointing out that Garwood has undergone several mental examinations, lawyers for the Indiana native have opposed the move for another series of tests.-AP 

Veterans of Foreie:n Wars have 
vowed to block a Communist Party 'tfSA rally at Detroit's Veteran Memorial Building, but the director of the Detroit Civic Center says the city has no reason to reject the political party's permit. The Communist Party has rented the building for its planned Oct. 12 rally for the party's presidential ticket of Gus Hall and Angela Davis. But the VFW, which has about 80,000 members in the state, plans to lobby city officials to prevent the communists from using the building, said Paul Savage, VFW state commander. -AP 
The two-fisted rebel of the silver screen, James Dean, has been dead longer than he was alive. But the army offaithful fans that flocks to his grave every Sept. 30 sa_ys James Dean lives on. "When we saw hi~, it ;':'as li~e m_agt~. Something hit us, and then we were addtcted, Mane ~mstt, president ofthe oldest existingJames Dean Fan Club, satd. The 33-year-old New York woman was one of about 1,000 people who journeyed yesterday to Frankfort, a central-northeast Indiana community of combines, cows and cornfields, to remember Dean on the 25th anniversary of his .death in a 
California car accident. -AP 
N 0 rapes have occurred at Notre Dame since school began in September said Dean of Students James Roemer. In a publically released announce­ment, Roemer said the rumors that two rapes have occurred .1re "completely without foundation." "We have absolutely no evidence ofany kind ofsexual assualt having taken place," he said. Roemer said he decided to refute the rumors publically because they were being widely circulated on campus. -The Observer 
Partly sunny and warmtodaywithazo percent chance ofshowers by late afternoon. High in the upper 70s. Partly cloudy and cooler tonight night with a chance of showers. Low in the low to mid 40s. -AP 
Inside Wednesday 


On October 
October. A month set aside for bier gar/ens, the World Series and midterms. And at Notre Dame, October kicks off the annual United Way cam­paign. 
Each year at this time students can be seen scurrying around campus carrying small change as donations to United Way; money that would otherwise be spent "chowing down" at food sales or drinking a few rounds at Senior Bar. This is quite admirable and everyone who contributes should be commended. After all, proceeds go to a charitable organization and Notre Dame is an institution steeped in charity. 
Those in charge of the 1980 Notre Dame campaign project 100 percent participation effort among both students and faculty members. In fact, each student is expected to pledge two dollars and faculty members are expected to pledge a small percentage oftheir month's earnings in support of the drive. 

There is a problem, liowever. For many years, alongside Notre Dame, Saint Mary's was also an avid supporter of United Way, and together both schools pooled a substantial and significant do­nation. This noteworthy sum was then ha:nded over to the local St.]oseph chapter ofUnited Way, which then distributed the money to organizations such as YMCA, GirVBoy Scouts, and 35 other groups in the area that aid the poor, the handi­capped and the elderly. 
The problem is that on September 15 the Saint Mary's Board ofGovernance single-handidly ruled to boycott this year's United Way campaign. This undemocratic decision , needless to say, has gen­erated much disbelief, disapproval and plain dis­gust among students, faculty membe.rs and admin­istrators who view United Way as a worthwhile and meaningful campus endeavor. United Way, they are arguing, has proved to be a vital human improvement organization in the South Bend area. 
The_Board's reasons for rejecting United Way are twofold: 1.) students in the past never had the opportunity to vote whether they wanted United Way as their college charity and 2.) a few of the board members questioned the validity ofsome of the organizations that are funded through United Way claiming that abortions are available through these groups. 
It is reasonably safe to say that the St. Joseph 
Pam Degnan 
chapterofUnited Way is "legitimate," a fact many South Bend residents will attest to. There are no shady, underhanded, aspects to this United Way branch. So what's wrong with giving to this specific branch? 
Lately, a cloud of confusion seems to be hovering over Saint Mary's, and it's only fair to point out that the student government leaders are doing nothing to improve the situation. The Board of Governance has decided to endorse a charity other than a United Way affiliate, which, board members promise, will be announced at a future date. So how do they justify righting one wrong with another wrong? 
It was wrong that students in the past did not have a voice in choosing United Way as the college-sponsored charity, but it is doubly wrong for the Board of Governance to reject this year's United Way campaign without a student referen­dum. 
So despite continuous urgings by faculty mem­bers (who live in the South Bend community and would be the best judges of the effectiveness of United Way) and some administrators who view the United Way drive as their "personal pet project," including SMC PresidentJohn Duggan, the Board has stood steadfast by its decision. 
Many are extremely disappointed that, as Saint Mary's students, they were denied the right to vote for what charity they would or would not like to endorse. There are approximately 2,000 students attending the college-students capable of vot­ing on an issue that does affect them, and it seems that the Board has decided to ignore this fact 
Consequently, students have banded together under the direction of Dr. Clarence Dineen, a biology professor at Saint Mary's, in organizing a United Way drive on campus. Students volunteer­ing their time and effort will be collecting money from all five dorms during the week. At least some interested Saint Mary's students are making sure that a "charitable" campaign does exist on campus despite what fellow students rashly decide for them. 
The month of October. Save those dollars. United Way is back in town.Justlook at the ugly billboard in front ofthe Administration building if you have any doubts 


Observer Notes 
Have you witnessed a crime that should be reported? Do you have newsworthy information that might turn into an important article? Is there something we should be covering? Ifso, call The Observer news department and let us know. We welcome any and all contributions from our readers-call 283-7471, 8661, or 
1715,. 24  hours  a  day,  Sunday  through  
Thursday.  All  sources  are  guaranteed  
confidentiality.  

_Q Ye 
General Hospzta/ Night 
Alan .............. Scoop Sullivan Luke and Laura ............. Kevin Korowicki Patty Fox George Quartermain . .......... Mike Jans Tracy jn Europe .............. Pam Degnan I Heather in Asylum ............ Erin . Courtney 
Alan's Baby Rick's Baby, Alan's Baby, Oh, Who Cares? . .............. Bob 
Huffstodt .Amy, Laura's sister. ............ The lovely Molly Noland Dull Rick Weber .............. Frak Brian, Scotty's pal . ........... Brian Beglane Annie Logan ...........Jane Ahern jeremy the Brat . .............. Paul Mullaney Scotty ............. .John McGrath Bobbi .....................Jeanne Frank Smith .................. Ort Left-Handed Boy .............John Higgins 

N.D. STUDENT PLAYERS PRESENTS: 



A SHOT 
IN 
THE 
DARK 
October 3,4, 10,II 
• 
contemporary arts 
Tickets Available at: SU Ticket Office 
The Observer Wedn~y, October 1, 1980 • ,_,. 3 


Resigned official 

...Corby's


Marosen questions friendship 
By David Rickabaugh 
"I felt I could ease the relations between Security and the stu­dents," said former Main Gate Security Guard Steve Maroszan of the events surrounding his resignation )n April. 
The circumstances surroun­ding the resignation led Maroszan to claim he was forced to forfeit his position. 
"They (Security) wanted me to conduct a prison-like operation. I couldn't do this to the students, they were my friends, not prisoners," commented 

.. Maroszan. Maroszan thinks other mem­bers of the security staff com­plain .:d about the number of students visiting him at the gate. He also feels the other guards watched his post to find him disobeying the rules. Maroszan supposedly did not have a good relationship with some members of Security be­cause they allegedly felt the students were "jock straps that couldn't open the doors of their dorms." "I didn't remain silent and let this untrue bigotry con­tinue. I supported the students. So, the students drink and get a little rowdy; they need some way to relieve the pressure. That does not make them secondclass citizens:" Despite his friendly attitude, the enforcement of the rules was not disregarded by Maroszan. 
"Everyone received the same kind of treatment," he stated "Of course I stepped on some toes, maybe that's why I'm not working there now." 
Maroszan gave up Social Security Disability and unem­ployment compensation when he accepted the job at the University. However, after his resignation he became ineligible to receive his previous benefits. 
The loss ofan income has cost "Boog" more than the expected monetary loss. His wife of 30 years filed for divorce over the lack of income. 
In an attempli to prove he was forced to resign Maroszan took his case to the Indiana Em­ployment Security Commission in ] uly. The commission con­

. eluded that he voluntarily left his employment without good cause. 
Due to the embarrassment he feels due to the incident, he no longer is a parishioner of Sacred Heart. He feels the clergy of the University could have suppor­ted, or at least consoled, him during his time of crisis. "Boog" asks, "Do they know what hell I was going through." 
When asked about the devel­opments, Security Director Glenn Terry stated, "The Commission confirmed what we have been saying all along." 
Terry also commented that, "I am displeased that The Observer is reporting this sWry. It happened 
Focus 

Labels UJarn public 
Life seems to be turning into a sometimes fatal disease associ­giant warning label. ated with the use of tampons. 
There's a danger sign at every The Food and Drug Adminis­corner these days. In the air we tration has asked manufacturers breathe, the food wt: eat, the to label tampons with a warning 
drugs we take. o( possible dangers. 
Consider this label: "Caution: A more familiar label is the not meant for puncture wounds, sign on cigarette packages, serious burns or cuts. If redness prompted by a 1954 report: or swelling develops, consult "Warning: the Surgeon General 
physician promptly. Protect Has Determined That Cigarette from light." The product: pe­Smoking is· Dangerous to Your troleum jelly. The label on a Health." spray can offurniture polish has a , A call to the FDA yesterday to dual purpostt. First, reassurance: ask just how many products are "Use with confidence. Contains required to carry warning labels no fluorocarbons claimed to was answered with confusion. harm the ozone layer." "Literally hundreds." The agen­
Then, warning: "caution: do cy regulates six separate ·areas. not use near fire or flame. Do not "You'll have to be more spe­set or store container where cific." 
temperature exceeds 120 de­How about drugs? The FDA's grees Fahrenheit as container Ed Nida said "almost all over­may burst. Do not puncture or the-counter drugs" carry warn­incinerate. Do not spray or use ing labels. Most prescription 
on floors. Keep out of reach of drugs do not; the warnings go to children." the physicians rather than to the The latest alert involves toxic shock syndrome, a rare, but (continued on page 6) 
six months ago and is no longer important." 
Maroszan feels it is an attempt to continue the policy of sweeping the incident under the rug. He still does not know what became of the student petition protesting his resignation. "It seems it fell on deaf ears," he observed. 
"Not one of the students has visited me since the incident I am begining to wonder if my position of friendship was worth' the price I've paid." 
Maroszan's residence is one block from the Notre Dame campus . 

·Pangborn falls victim to crime 
By Mary Fran Callahan Senior Staff Reporter 
More campus crime was dis­covered last night when-a theft of two watches and a class ring was reported to The Observer by Pangborn residents, who said the theft occurred during the Michigan football game. 
The students, who wished to have their names withheld from publication, said their room doors were unlocked. 
One of the watches taken was t'valuable," according to a res­ident. The other watch was en­graved, and the owner intimated that the article was of senti­mental value, as was the stolen class ring. 
A victim expressed a reluct­ance to accept the reality of campus crime when he said, "I never bothered to report it to Security because I knew nothing would ever turn up." 
Floor residents said they saw a "suspicious" man ·standing in their stairwell shortly after the Michigan game. 
"We asked him what he was doing, and he said he was "'trying to find the way out,"' a resident 

· stated. 
Thus far, ·Security has been unable to apprehend any sus­pects in the recent wave of campus crimes. The department, however, does have officers working on the thefts. 
Last week, Security officers questioned a group of South Bend residents emerging from Pangborn Hall. No suspects were taken into custody, how­ever. 
Earlier in the week, a recent robbery at Fisher Hall prompted Security Officer William Hedl to advise students to lock their doors "even if they just go take a shower." 






BOSTON CLUB 

CTOBER BREAK BUS 
Wed. Oct. 1 7-9 pm LaFortune lobby 
S100 round-trip ($50 deposit required) 
call Jim at 1528 
(continuedfrom page 1) 
visibility in the five-points area during the week before St. Patrick's Day in anticipation of large crowds, any form of arrest quota was not contemplated. 
"In fact, police were instructed not to make any special efforts to arrest bar patrons onSt. Patrick's Day," Hill said. "We didn't want a situation where 3 or 4 officers 
Corby's had ''broken its promise'' 
would try to make mass arrests. We didn't want to create a dangerous situation." 

Also appearing was Myron Busby of the Northeast Neigh­borhood Council, who testified that despite efforts to create a cooperative atmosphere, Corby's had "broken its promise" to try and keep the disruptive force of the bar to a minimum. Busby said that the management of Corby's had not fulfilled promises it made in an 1978 agreement with the Coun­cil to control some of the dis­ruptive effects the bar had on the neighborhood. "We're pretty much fed up with unkept prom­ises," Busby said, noting that the management of other area bars, Bridget McGuire's, Nickies and the now-closed Goose's Nest had fulfilled the terms of the agree­ment even after its expiration in Aprill979. 

Student Union Presents: VAN LINES 
Your weekend transportation off campus 
Tickets $1 ~oISemester at ticket office in Lafortune at dining halls this week 
* Look for route itinerary 
Services Commission 
"Come and Browse" 


FALL BOOK
• SALE 
Memorial Library Concourse 
Today-Thurs sponsored by 9am-3:30pm 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS 
The Observer Wednesday, October 1, 1980 -page 4 
...Constitution 

(continued from page 1) 
Student Senate and the CLC. 
Notre Dame had a Student 
Senate in the past, before the 
Student Life Council which pre­
ceeded the CLC. Conklin won­
dered why Riehle was reverting 
back to something that was so 
unsuccf!ssful in 1968 that it was 
voted out of existence by the 
students. He inquired as to how 
the new StudentSenate would be 
perceived by the administration. 
Conklin thought that the sem­
ester used getting the Senate in to 
operation might be more effec­
tively used working on the al­
ready formed CLC. 
Riehle responded that he 
would have no qualms convening 
the CLC next semester butwants 
to work on the Senate this sem­
ester. Though he will not con­
vene the CLC, his designate may 
call the group into session. 
Riehle has made Fr. Van 
Wolvlear his designate. Fr. Van 
Wolvlear plans on convening the 
CLC this semester. 
Riehle stressed that the Senate is a student senate and that ad­ministration and faculty are not ·included in the membership so 
that the students alone may have a voice. In the past, many res­olutions· never passed the CLC because of the administration membership. 
The Senate would be only an advisory group, but passage of a resolution would be by students, and the resolution would be presented to the administration. Thus, if the resolutions were not adopted, it would be clear that the administration was unwilling to accept them-not that the students were unable to organize and present them. 
Riehle said the formation of the Senate would more clearly define the roles of student gov­ernment. 
Riehle expressed concern that the CLC and the Student Senate operating concurrently would confuse the students over who had the say in student govern­ment. The CLC works on hall life; the Senate would work on campus life. Riehle said that the Senate would include elected members rather than the CLC's appointed members. 
Flanner Hall President Mike Shepardson pointed out that student senates at other schools 





TechnologyOne step ahead 
Our 20/20 foresight has made us the leader in semiconductor technology. If you have that kind of vision, you can help advance that technology even 
further. 
You'll find outstanding opportunities in Discrete, Bipolar and MOS Technology at Motorola. Positions in Design, Wafer Processing, Product Engineering, R & D, Applications, and Device Engineering are available for: 
• 
Electrical Engineers • Materials Science 

• 
Physicists • Metallurgists 

• 
Chemical Engineers 


We'll be interviewing on campus 
See you.r placement office for more information. 
P.O. Box 20903 Phoenix, AZ 85036 
An Equal Opportunity/ Affirmative Action Employer 
.. 
-. 
rill MOTOROLA
V SEMICONDUCTOR GROUP 
There's no beHer place to start. 
are efficient, and that as pro­posed the Senate can form com­mittees to include faculty input. Also, monthly or bi-monthly forums could be created to allow student-administration dialogue. 
Student Government Execu­tive Coordinator Don Murday said the Senate would bring the students together rather than going to the administration in a "piecemeal" fashion. Conklin agreed, saying that the Board of Trustees tends to support the students when they are united in matters such as this. 
In other HPC activity: 
-.HPC President Phil Vanderhoff announced that this may be the last year for gambling to be included in Mardi Gras. It is against Indiana law for charitable groups to engage in gambling as fund-raising activities. 
-A Student Government Social Life Survey is being dis­tributed in the dorms this week. Results will be compiled early next week and presented at the next Board ofTrustees meeting. It is hoped that the information compiled will be the basis for specific arguments on how to improve social life for students. 
-A paper and aluminum recycling project will begin in two weeks. Newspapers and aluminum cans will be picked up weekly at the dorms. The funds raised will go into a charity fund. 
-The HPC has been allotted $18,000 earmarked for perma­nent hall improvements. 



Irish Police 
to perform atSMC on October 5 
. The Notre Dame community gets an injection of pure Irish blood nextSunday, Oct. 5, as the Irish National Police Choir, hailing from Dublin, Ireland, will appear at O'Laughlin Auditorium on the campus of St. Mary's College. The 8 p.m. concert is sponsored by the University Artists Series. 
Tickets for the event are $4 for general admission and $2 for 
students. They are available through the O'Laughlin ticket office (28-'--4176), 111 Keenan Hall (283-3210), or 329 Keenan Hall (283-333-3) . 

. 
Psych majors 
The Placement Bureau is having a career discussion (question and answer format) for Psychology majors on Wed. Oct. 1 at 4:15 
p.m. in Room 105 O'Shag. 


'Burgh bus 
There will be sign-ups for all Pittsburghers for the Fall Break bus on Thursday, October 2 at 
7:30 in LaFortune Little Theater. The bus will leave on Oct. 17 at 
5:00. There is tentatively a bus leaving after the Army game at 
6:00. Plans for making a Pitt­Club directory and a Steeler party will be discussed Any questions, call Mike Wiedt at #1022. 
• 

The Observer Wednesday, October 1, 1980 -page 5 
Industrial pollution 


Carter eases standards 


WASHINGTON (AP)-Presi­dent Carter, preparing to take his battle for re-election to the nation's industrial heartland, an­nounced Tuesday. he will seek extended environmental dead­lines to help ailing steel manu­facturers compete with overseas 
manufacturers 
Saying "a healthy and modern­
ized steel industry is vital to our 
nation's economy and also to our 
nation's security," Carter also 
unveiled a liberalized tax de­
preciation schedule for steel­
makers. 
The measures could result in 
domestic steel prices rising by as 
much as 25 percent, industry 
officials said. 
The president announced the measures at the Executive Office Building next to the White House just before he begins campaign visits to several key steel-producing states. The nation's five leading steel states -three ofwhich Carter will visit Wednesday and Thursday have 112 electoral votes out ofthe 270 needed to win. 
Carter will make campaign visits to Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania on Wednesday and Thursday. The other two leading steel states are Illinois and Indiana.. 
Plants have been closing, workers have been laid off, and Democrats in Congress have 




dukE 
Graduate School of Business Administration 
A representative of the Graduate School of Business Administration will be on Campus Monday, October 6, 
to discuss the Duke MBA Pr:ogram. 
Interested students may obtain further I nformation by contacting the Placement Office. 
Advancement Does Not Require An Advanced Degree 
You can spend another two to three years 1n graduate school or you can tum four years of liberal arts education into a practical, challenging and rewarding career in just three months-as an Employee Benefit Specialist. 
Benefits today amount from 30 to 35 percent of wages and salaries. Recent pension legislation has created even more demand for trained specialists. As an Employee Benefit Specialist you 'II be called upon to excercise your own judgement, initiative and intelligence in a challenging, professional environment with progressive responsibility. 
The Institute for Employee Benefits Training is the first and most prestigious school in the United States, training Employee Benefits and Pension Specialists. This is a dynamic, growing career field in which advancement does not require an advanced degree. Our graduates are in demand by law firms, pension consulting firms, insurance companies, banks, and personnel and benefits departments of corporations. The Institute's Placement Service will place you too. If not, you will be eligible for a substantial tuition refund. 
Furthermore, you will earn graduate credit towards a Master of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law for all course work completed at The Institute. 
If you're a senior of high academic standing and looking for a meaningful career, contact your Placement Office for our catalog and arrange to have an interview with our repre· sentative. 
We will visit your campus on: Wednesday, October 15 
The~
Institute 235 South Hth Street for Philadelphia~Pennsylvania 19103 Employee ~ (215) 732-6600 
Be~e!its ~ 1 • .8 j
Tra1n1ng ~ ..... · • ~ 
(Operated by Para-Legal,lnc.) 
Approved by The Am~rican Bar Association Programs Earn Full Credit Toward M.A. in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law. AC-0035 

warned Carter that he could fare 
poorly in industrial states if there 
is no program to restore some of 
the lost jobs. 
In an apparent reference to those who advocate a reduced government role in business, Carter said: "the comprehensive steel agreement that we've reached is proof that the proper role of government is to be a partner in economic change, not an impediment and also not an unwitting or indifferent specta­tor." 
"In today's real world, a quick fix for one particular problem easily means quick trouble...for others," the president said. 
The industry has been hurt in recent years by rapidly rising wages, reduced product demand, a lag in capital investment and import competition from Japan and Europe. 
Administration officials, from the president on down, were quick to deny that the new environmental plans amounted to a relaxation of air and water pollution standards. Instead, they used the phrase "stretch­out" -more commonly called upon to describe an industrial 


system in which  workers pro­ Wi"dows cause geometric shadows upo" Notre Dame's library floor.  
duce more without an increase in  Str1dents seem alptured i" the art.  (Photo by jane Ahem)  
pay.  

: ~
...

!B II 
GEORGE BURNS ST...INCIN OH. COD! BOOK II 
:\GILBERT CATES FILM 

SUZANNE PLESHETTE·DAVID BIRNEY·,NrttOovc:'g LOUANNE ::AC, MUSK" CHARLES FOX SfOIIY ,, JOSH GREENFELD"'"'""':: JOSH GREENFELD 
AND 

HAL GOLDMAN. FRED S. FOX. SEAMAN Ji\COBS. MELISSA MILLER PG PARENTAL GUIDANCE SUGGESTED'® .w:~~~.~~ GILBERT CATES homwo•n•• ••o• ~ 
A warnef Communtc::ollona Companyo ~ SOME MATERIAL MAY NOT BE SUITABLE FOR CHILDREN Tcchnicolor® et9IOWorne11,0 , AnlrQI'III ...,.,.,.d 
OPENS OCTOBER 3RD AT A THEATRE NEAR YOU 
. ---··-· ----·· ··----·-----.......------~--~---------------­
The Observer Wednesday, October 1, 1980 -page 6 

,..Refrigerators 
dorm room size students rates 
CALL 
TAYLOR 



RENTAL 

277-2190 
1427N. Ironwood~ 
Let's JAM! 
The NDSU Presents 
COUNTRY ROCK JAM Nov. 1 Stepan Center Five Bands Including The VASSAR CLEMENTS BAND and JOHN HALL of Orleans STUDENT TICKET LOTTERY; Sunday, Oct. 5, 7 p.m. LAFORTUNE BALLROOM Tickets $4 each. Generql Admission. Bring your ticket money with you. Limit four (4) tickets per person. Payable by cash or check Also on sale, Chicken Barbecue tickets at $3.50 each. 

MEN & WOMEN 
.-....~.· ---...... ------­
-South Bend, Indiana 46628 
IIAIIIIESICIS FOR Til
fli: SUES !f 

232-6622 
Oktoberfest Night at Senior Bar 

Wed. Oct. 1 Beer Special German Music 21 I.D. Required 
' 


...'Paper L.ton' 
(continued from page 1) 
In the weeks prior to the fight, Plimpton was continuously an­noyed by calls from Ali pre­dicting the tragedy that was to befall his opponent. "You is gonna fall during ring instruc-. tions," Ali would whisper. 
Plimpton recounted other unusual adventures. Several years ago as a Boston Celtic, Plimpton was put into the final minutes of a game with the Atlanta Hawks, down by fifteen points and with little hope of winning. 
Seeing the odd man come onto the court, Plimpton's teammates were revitalized momentarily and fought back to within two points of the opponents. At that point Plimpton was replaced by John Havilcek, the All-Star power forward. This turned out to be a mistake, however, as the Celtics went on to lose the game. 
Plimpton's career has ven­tured off the playing field as well. As a percussionist for the New York Philharmonic, Plimpton ruined an entire performance one night, sending Leonard Bernstein into a rage. 
Known as "The Flying Telephone Pole," Plimpton was once a circus trapeze artist. Although his performances in the center ring were less than perfect, Plimpton did not go totally unnoticed. Minutes be­fore one show was to begin, wearing only his pink leotards, Plimpton went to see a doctor about a shoulder ache. Upon hearing that his strangely-dres­sed patient was a "flyer," the doctor replied, "the human body is a cathedral and you've de-~ secrated it." Plimpton was re­fused treatment. 

Perhaps Plimpton's unusual career was summed up best by the young lady who introduced him last night. To the delight of the crowd, she announced that Plimpton, "Has done almost anything I can think of." 
• • . Warnings 
(continued from page 3) 
patients. "Our biggest worry right now is getting people to read the label," Nida said. "If we could get one thing across to consumers ­read the label-we'd figure our work was done. All we'd have to do is watch the manufacturers." Nida is optimistic, however. "Consumers are picking up on the language of the medical field," he said. '"Side effects' is not a term that's an exclusive property of doctors anymore." 
In recent months, the FDA has 
announced that warning labels will be required on bubble bath. "Excessive use or prolonged exposure may cause irritation to skin and urinary tract." 
It has ordered warnings on products ranging from sunlamps to hair dyes. It warned pregnant women to curtail or stop drink­ing coffee, tea and colas because of a possible link between caf­feine and birth defects. The agency found no scientific ev­idence to back up claims that Bendectin, a drug used to treat morning sickness, causes birth defects. But it recommended, nonetheless, that manufacturers include "patient package in­serts" to give customers more information. Look around the house. The skull and crossbones that used to be confined to containers of rat poison and weed killer has been replaced by fine printand has spread through the rooms. The print seems to get smaller as the warnings get longer. "For external use only. Keep away from children." 

THIS WEEK AT THE NAZZ 
Tonight at 9 ­Thursday at 9 ­
Friday at 9 ­Saturday at 9 ­


10:30 ­
Basement of LaFortune 

OPEN STAGE 
GEORGE WILMES 
ANDY HICKS 
To Be Announced 
JERRY GAFF BARRY STEVEN~ 
Admission Always Fr& 

~~-__..........-~---~-------__,~==---~ 
The Observer Wednesday, October 1, 1980-page 7 

--VIS4' 

liUQaiii,,,jlQ Pie:p~~,:our 
*
* 1621 South Bend Ave.* 200 N. Main St. And 1426 Mishawaka Ave. * 
SOUTH BEND, 233-4603 ELKHART, 295-63' 287-7744 
* 6502 Grape Rd. * 254 Dixie Hwy. North I En)·oy * 2934 E. McKinley Ave.* 
MISHAWAKA, 277-7176 ROSELAND, 272-2522 
Lower Prieesf 
WINDSOR CANADIAN SEAGRAM'S 7 CROWN 

I.75 LITER 
YOUR CHOICE 
Sweet or Dry 
Martini & Rossi Vermouth . . . . . 750 
Hiram W alkera Peppermint Schnapps . . . . . 75o 
Kahlua . . . . . . . 750 
24/J.Z oz. 
CANS 
WARM 
or 
COLDf 
399 449 
8 99 
¥i~!s ......... 
Inglenook 
Navalle Wines 
Burgundy, Vin Roae, Chablio, Rhine • • • • • 3 Liter 
Eagle
Rare Bourbon 15o 
Kessler's 
Blend ......... 15o 
J. Roget Wine 
White, Pink, Spwnante 750 £ 
Ondine Rhine Wine 299 
By Bacardi . . . . . . 750 
Amaretto de Saronna ...... 15o B & B Brandy .............. 15o Galliano Liqeuer ........... 75o Grand Marnier Liqeuer . . . . 15o 
Hamm's 

24/12 Oz. No Return 
24/12 Oz. Cans 
BottJea 
549 
7'' 

STORE HOURS, Mon. tbru Thw1. 8 A.M.-10 P.M . 
Fri.&S.t 
8 A.M.-II P.M. 

MINI MARKETS 
233-9466 
I355 I§45 II75 
I § 29 

WARM or COLD 
12 PACK 
PRICESf Budweiser ............ 429 Busch ................ 429 Falstaff .............. 349 Hamms .............. 389 Michelob ............. 489 Millen ............... 429 Miller Lite ............ 429 
429

Natural Light .......... Olympia .............. 4°9 
Pabst ....•.•.. , , , , , ..  4°9  
Old Milwaukee ........  389  
Schlitz  ............ , ..  429  
Schlitz  .............. ,  429  

Stroh's ............... 429 
4401 S. Michigan 
291-2600 , .. 
1725 N. Ironwood 
272-7144 




Editorials 

Wednesday, October 1, 1980 -page 8 
Throwing away your vote 
I have a recurring nightmare: It's November 4, and I calmly stroll into the voting booth, confidently toting my first presidential ballot. I pick up the "tool" and scan the ballot."Carter, Reagan, Anderson." I knit my brow. "Reagan, Cartllr, Anderson." I begin to sweat. "Anderson, Carter, Reagan.'' I awake violently, screaming," Where is none of the above'!" 
•
that the candidates seem to be more conservative than Reagan in getting more mediocre each time several respects, especially in areas around. In a little over 25 years we 1 ofcivil rights and women's liberation. have gone from JFK and Adlai In the '60s and early '70s Carter Stevenson to Carter and Reagan. prided himself on being a protege of This thought is particularly unsettling Sen. Dick Russell, an infamous in view ofthe situations that await us segregationist from Georgia. He was in the '80s. There are all sorts of ·quoted as saying he got votes from reasons for the rise of these can-the same type of people as did didates, everything from the current George Wallace and Lester structure ofthe primary and conven-Maddox, and once "smeared" an 

thing to sit around Charley's Barbershop and talk about "what should be done to straighten us out" and quite another to say the same things as the presidential candidate of a major political party. No amount of cosmetic alterations on the part of Reagan's campaign staff can change this. His misinformation and verbal theatrics make a great show and good press, but this is the 

I'll tell you what-I hope it isn't this bad every four years, because if it is I think I'll just bag it now.I mean this will be my first time inside the voting booth and there's nobody with a bandwagon that I want to jump on, nobody that I can spend my college years fanatically supporting as an idealistic undergrad. Eugene McCarthy, George McGovern, Morris Udall, heck, even Edward Kennedy, where are you? When I was a "kid I used to put my Humphrey and McGovern bumper stickers on my bicycle and school folders and be the most politically hip 10-year-old in town, But now I can finally vote, and there's nobody to vote for. 
Seriously, who can any self­respecting 20-year-old liberal vote for this year'? (I know, I know, John Anderson, but I'll get to him later). 
This is a year for the "Don't vote, it only encourages them" t-shirts in tion system (they make it necessary for a serious candidate to be unemployed or else ignore his job) to the loss of esteem that politics and politicians have suffered in the last 20 years. (Why be in politics when it is nothing but a miasma of worries and not as economically rewarding as private business?) Through combinations of these and other reasons, we are left with the basic choice of Carter or Reagan, which is really no choice at all. 
First of all, there is no real ideological difference between Carter and Reagan. Carter is a bit more intelligent, as such is slicker and more sophisticated, but he is really a moderate Republican in Democrat's clothing. The only real difference appears to be on certain social issues such as abortion and ERA, and Carter could not oppose these without losing a large segment of his constituency. Historically, Carter is 
Doonesbury 
AN/J 'tO{} IA/tt?& RIGHT, 
8ECAV5E SCC!JNVS L/I:TCR., 
AS lA/& 5££ HeRE, H/'3 
HeA/J 1«4'35EVERBJfl?OM 
HIS 5HOIJL.I)CflS BEFORE H/3 COUUJ CX»ti'LE'/C 7He 5ll/NTFeR CJJR CAM~!
/ £~ _____...=--· 
~ 
opponent by circulating a picture of him hugging a black man. Carter's economic policies are much more traditionally Republican than Democratic, and he is also a proponent of the traditional Repub­lican concerns such as deregulation and military strength. 
Reagan, on the other hand, appears daily to be nothing more than a good-intentioned, though definitely not harmless, old man who would be better off back in Dixon, Illinois, telling stories to his grand­children. I do not mean this in any sort of discriminatory way (pertain­ing to age), but in the sense that Reagan's background, qualifications, and experience in no way prepare him to be President of the United States. It is a very strong comment upon the situation of the electoral system of the country, and the electorate itself, that he has been allowed to come this far. It's one future of the world we're talking about. In a way, if Reagan is elected (or for that matter, Carter), it will serve a sort of twisted justice, because America will get the kind of leadership it deserves. 

As far as personalities go, I actually prefer Reagan's because I think that he is at least sincere. I disagree with most of what he says and openly fear the potential impli­cations of his presidency, but he is a much nicer person than Carter, who, while presenting his pious exterior, has been one of the most ruthless, cynical and politically-motivated chief executives ever. His manipula­tion of the White House, Iran, Afghanistan, Russia, China, energy, and countless other issues has been disgusting. This has been much more disturbing than his alleged incom­petence. For example, consider the Stealth bomber leak, and his use of the Iranian issue "to hide in the Rose 
by Garry Trudeau 

Anthony Walton 
Garden." Not to mention his criticisms and distortions of Reagan, which often amount to the "pot calling the kettle black." 
So what are we left with? Good old John B. Anderson, the white­haired panacea. (Ed Clark, Barry Commoner, and the others truly represent throwing your vote away.) The only problem is that Anderson revealed himself as more of a self-
D Junmy Carter 
D Ronald Reagan 
DJohn Anderson 

None of the above 

righteous sycophant thar• the con­cerned intellectual the media have portrayed him as. He also has no real credibility (he didn't win a primary) outside of the media, and lacks the strong organization to seriously challenge and win. The only thing that Anderson can do is what I hope happens, and that is throw the election into the House. While I do feel he doesn't have a chance, if everyone who is saying, ''I'd vote for him, but he doesn't have a chance and I don't want to throw my vote away" would vote for him, he could probably send it to the House. This would be better than either Carter or Reagan. 
All ofthis brings several questions to mind, the most prominent being "Isn't there a better way?" There is a leadership crisis in this country, and we need strong leaders to govern, but first we need viable choices to create dialogue in which to decode these issues. Our current situation is another bitter fruit of television, in that Iowa and New Hampshire get to have a 90 percent share in deter­mining who becomes president. By being strong there, the Reagans and Carters get their head starts and become media "front-runners". Perhaps it is time for a parliamentary system. But that is another article. In the end, all I can say is "Where have 
you gone, Pat Paulsen and Harold Stassen, a nation turns its lonely hearts to you." 
Anthony Walton is a junior from Morrissey Hall. He contributes regularly to The Observer's editorials page, usually on Tuesday. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief ............ Paul Mullaney 5A1C Nrws Editor ........... Mary Leavitt 
Box Q, Notre DameriN 46556 

Managing Editor .............. Mark Rusr Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 

Editonals Editor ........... Mike Onufrak Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe 
University of Notre Dame du ~.c and. Saint ~iary'~ C<?llege. It does not ~ecessanly 

Photo Editor .................. John Macor
Senior Copy Editor ......... Lynne Daley 
reflect the policies of the admtmstrauon .of etthe~ m~tttuuon. The news ~~ r.eported 
News Editor .................. Pam Degnan

as accurately and as objectively as posstble. Edttonals represent the opmton .of a Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges
News Editor ................ Tom Jackman
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are th.e vtews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the c~mmuntty, and Production Manager .... John McGrath the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, ts encouraged. SMC Executiz•e Editor .. Margie Brassil 

L-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
~--, 
j 
I 
I 
The Obset:ver=--=-==--~=-===~-==--=======·=·--=-=--==-=­



T0 da~===========W=ed=n=es=da=y,=O=ct=ob=er=l=,1=98=0=-=pag=e=9 

Campus 
e9 a.m. -fall book sale -by univ. nd press. mem. library concourse. also october 2, 9 a.m.-,:30 p.m. ei0:30 a.m. -lecture and demonstration-"computer­ized data base searching, " dr. joseph disalvo, lockheed info service. 242 o'shaughn. el2:15 -microbiology dept. seminar -"starch degrading enzymes old & m:w," dr. j. marchall, miles labs. galvin aud. et-4 p.m. notre dame book­store apparel sale -special academic apparel sale for all faculty. e4:15 p.m. -career place­ment meeting for all jr. and sr. psych. majors, 105 o'shag. e4:20 p.m. -physics dept. colloquium -"transfer reac­tions induced by polarized li ions," dr. felipe santos, u. of lisbon/u. of wise. liB nieuwland. e4:30 p.m. -reilly lecture in chemistry-"transition metal complexes in organic syn­thesis," george w. parshall. 123 nieuwland. e6:30 p.m. -sailing club meeting in sailing club boat­house on st. joe's lake. new members welcome. e?: 30 p.m-lecture-"french wine growing regions" by dr. o'neil. sponsored by francaise de south bend in iusb faculty lounge. e9 p.m.-nazz, open stage. Iafortune basement. 
WHC 

On Wednesday, Oct. 8 the World Hunger Coalition in con­junction with the ND FLOC Support Committee will be co­sponsorino a "Quarter Night."
"' h h ND 

During dinner ours at t e and SMC dining halls, each student is asked to donate a quarter (s), which will help sup­port the Midwestern farmworkers 
in their struogle for justice and
"' 

basic human rights. Bring your quarters! 
Ohio State Senator Zimmerf described these people as "men, women and children who do 
hack-breaking work for 10-12 hours a day." Despite the fact that their stoop labor helps to put food on every American's 
table, the senator noted, the 
" d l'k
farmworkers are treate 1 e animals, deprived ofdignity" and their children are forced to "play in the stench of outhouses." 
Molarity 
TO ~PRE.55 TO YOU, TH£ TFJUST'EES, Til£ SEVERITY OF THt: ALCOHOL ,4BU5£ ffl?BLE:M 
I UAV£ A SMALL 





Peanuts 
P55T! WAKE UP, SIR! l(OU'RE MISSING THE HISTOR't' LESSON ... 
The Daily Crossword 

Michael Molinelli 
NO'iJ0.1 H£ C.-\Ni BE CWE' 
Charles Schultz 

ACROSS 29 Distinctive 55 News flash: 13 Magic word 1 Mythical period abbr. 15 Unctuous monster 30 Eateries 56 Hyson, 23 Here's 7 Plays a 31 like some perhaps partner 
guitar streets 58 Wallach or 25 Arched 13 Nobility 33 Dairy shop Whitney galleries 14 Originating 35 Adulterates 59 Color· 26 Flee 16 Ecstasy 37 Twisted patched hastily 17 Bullfighter Injuriously 61 Wearing a 28 Zenith's 18 Time zone 41 Expedition certain fur opposite 
letters 46 His and her 63 Perceptual 30 Spanish 

19 Was In 47 Tailor's front concern 20 Keatslan 49 Highway creation attention· 21 "-Is me!" getter
22. Tall or top 50 House or 
24 Spartacus bed 
was one 51 AMalone 26 Minnelll 53 Recipe 27 Peregrine abbr. 
claw 54 Verb end 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


64 Was a houses glutton 32 Japanese 65 Yalta man, coin 1945 34 Recipients: 66 Middleman's suff. 
goal 36 Obligated
37 Bacon units DOWN 36 Hypocrites 1 Like some 39 Chemical humor substance 2 Dinosaur, 40 First or 3 fPorraedxoample 42 Tfoarnetlgrunm 
concern 43 Arms place 4 Frenchman 44 Sated 5 Dreaded 45 Type of 
persons track 6 Tone arm 48 Shooting
adjunct star 
7 Splgoted 51 Many:comb. 
urns form 8 Commerce 52 Beginning 9 Ceremony of a volley
55 1

1°Country dowola
57

monogram 1 
11 Helper at university a blessed town event 60 Youth group 
12 One napping 62 ALevin
..:::._.:.:.:::........::::::.:.::::::.....=._:.:.:.:..:.:.:.:==-·..--------------------~--~---.........,......l'l._____________________
_. 


.. ., ..
c .. .c c > iii iii QJ ~ c co c
01 g ~ \J 0 0 c: iri :>·" 
.,0 ;;: <>. 0 c 0 0 & u:: u:: 0 0 0 0 ~ QJ QJ l .::-~ .0 01 .. ~ u 0 > I 0 c 
ii ~ ~ :;) ~ " c 0 0 c 0 0 
C: > 0 >< ::!' 0 ~ 
0 I <>. v;
~ 
u
.ii 
"'We're all in this together!" 
· • • ' \ •_ ~ , t I • I • f. t,. t • '· ;,.. '• '• ' ....... '·". 


.c
.Q .. E 
0 .c 
~ 0 
N
c ~ 
< .Q > 

-----~-~--~----------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Wednesday, October 1, 1980 -page 10 
(continuedfrom page 12)
by David Wilson Sports Wr#er 
His statistics last year give solid 
Notre Dame's field hockey evidence to the praises ofToman. team just may have decided not He led the team in pass receiving to kiss. the Blarney Stone, but with 28 catches for 428 yards. rather the astroturf on Cartier A member of the trio who has Field. been touted as Notre Dame's 
After beating Lake Forest at best receiving corps ever and the 
home last Friday, 1-0, the Irish nation's best in 1980 along with retain their unblemished win­wide receiver Tony Hunter and ning streak · at home. flanker Pete Holohan, Masztak also fulfills the role of a blocker
Thi.s weekend the Irish will quite adequately, according tohave to journey away from their Toman.
magical field and travel to Taylor "He is much improved fromthis afternoon and the Depauw last year; of course that comesClassic on Saturday. 
with experience. 
"We'll be up for the weekend, "Dean is a super guy; he's aas always," says freshman stand­great asset to the program on andout Clare Henry, who stresses off the field. There's no questionthe tournament will be a real about it," concludes Toman.
challenge for her team. 
Who taught Masztak the art ofThe Irish have yet to win a refining his natural skills? 
game on the road, as is reflected "If I had to name my bestin an even 3-3 record. The losses coach, it would be my dad," says came at the hands of Indiana the Morrissey Hall resident. "HeUniversity, UniversityofToledo, has really helped. He alwaysand most recently, a 2-0 setback knows what to say and do at theat Ohio Wesleyan. 
right times. 
Henry doesn't feel that a poor "Ifmy head was getting big, heteam performance contributed knew how to get the air out. Andto the Ohio loss. "The bus ride I really appreciate all he's done." 
was long and we're not used to The Irishfield hockey team sports an undefeated recordon Cartier Field. Masztak's father, still a bigthe grass fields such as the one at (Photo by jane Ahern) Irish fan and one who has foundOhio Wesleyan." 
Irish perform 


• • • Masztak
magic at home 

, 
That's when General Dynamics' For more information on careers in Or, if you prefer, send your representatives will be on your campus aerospace, electronics, telecommuni­resume to: to talk to you about your future. cations, data products, shipbuilding, ·BILL COLEMAN, Corporate College 
General Dynamics, a Fortune 100 tactical weaponry and other areas, be Relations Administrator company, is best known as the na­sure to pick up one of our brochures at GENERAL DYNAMICS tion's leading defense contractor. But your Placement Office and make an Pierre Laclede Center, CN-13 we have a wide-range of programs in interview appointment. St. Louis, MO 63105 many other commercial high-tech­An Equal Opportunity Employer nology fields as well. And, plan to attend our Corporate 
You'll find excellent career oppor­presentation' the evening before tunities in nearly every engineering our on-campus interviews. Details and scientific discipline, including at your Placement Office. computer sciences and business administration. 
CAMPUS INT!RVI!WS 

OCTOBER 15&16 
the time to make it to nearly every Notre Dame game since his son arrived in 1978, remains a steadying influence on Dean. 
"Once I didn't think he was going to make it to the Navy game in Cleveland," says the 20­year-old Masztak. "But I heard a yell from the stands, there were 80,000 people there. It was my father. I heard him above all those other people. I looked around and there he was. 
"He's always been there; I always hear him, don't ask me how." 
Masztak, who was named to prep All-American squads by Coach andCoach & Athlete, says the change from high school play to collegiate competition was a major one for him. 
"Itwas a big transition. When I got here everyone was so much bigger, so much faster and hit so much harder. You had to hang your head low so it didn't get taken off." 
A two-time prep letter winner in both basketball and track, teams he caP.tained his senior year, Masztak has helped to compile a long and impressive list of memorabilia to that treasured Notre Dame tradition: the near comeback-win versus Southern California in his fresh­man year (four grabs for 82 yards); the brilliant win over Houston that same year at the Cotton Bowl (three catches for 49 yards); 
·and the 18-17 steal from South Carolina last year, a game in which he hauled in the game­winning 14-yard pass with less than a minute to play (just one of his six aerial receipts on the day for a team-leading 1979 mark). T.hey are just a few contests that stand out most~ Masztak's mind. 
But, of course, he does not omit the recent wonder-win over Michigan from his memories. 
"I was just concentrating on getting the guys blocked so Harry could kick it," says the member of last year's Butcher Brothers in Bookstore Basketball with fellow grid standouts Kevin Hart and John Scully. "I was thinking, 'Come on, Harry,' but I never lost faith. 
"When it went up I thought, 'It's there.' I was on my knees watching and I was just kind of bringing my hands up slowly as it was going, and then finally, 1 brought them all the way up when it was good. 
"You could see how close we 
(the team) were then-every­
one on the sidelines was giving 
support. It was good, and every­
one was a part ofthat win. Even if 
it wasn't good, everyone would 
have been a part of it." 
Masztak stresses that the aura 
of closeness is still there, despite 
a week's layoff from play, and 
that it has to be with the team 
preparing for Michigan State. 
"We can't take tl.~m lightly," says Masztak of the Spartans. "We're I'·~ otre Dame; people will always bt ~...oming outafter Notre Dame · · whole season. They have n 'ing to lose; we have everytL :; to lose. 
"It's not going to be a roller­coaster ride to Alabama. I'm going to take the games one at a time and prt;pare th. best I can." 
Though Dean Masztak admits the season gets long, it gets tough to prepare for games and he gets tired, he's also quick to assure everyone of one special thing. 
"I love it here, I wouldn't be 
happy any other place." 
It's doubtful the Irish team and 
fans could be as happy if the 
talented Masztak were any other 
place but under that Dome that 
mesmerized him nearly three 
years ago. 

The Observer Wednesday, October 1, 1980-page 11 

... 
.............. J. .. ,•.o-••. · 1 .. t.. ,_ .,. 

-----~----------­
-
-

Wednesday, October 1, 1980 -page 12



Sports 

Masztak: traditionalist at heart 
by Beth Huffman Sports Editor 
It was a cold, snowy day in January of 1978 when Dea.n Masztak first came to Notre Dame. He had looked at Mich­igan, a school less than an hour from his Toledo, Ohio, home, and had been impressed. He was determined, though, to keep an open mind about the all­important decision of which college to choose. Yet, the quiet junior who led all Irish receivers in playing time last year says it didn't take him long on that occassion to realize he belonged in an Irish, not a Wolverine, uniform. 
"I put my foot down from the car, looked up at the Dome and said, 'This is it,"' reflects the 6-4, 227-pound tight end who has caught five passes fora total of74. yards in Notre Dame's two games this season. 
With the Irish tradition im­bedded in his mind by a subway alum father, numerous miracles performed by men in blue-and then green-on his television set, the Central Catholic High School graduate was determined to preserve at least one relic of Notre Dame history. 
Visions of Mike Creaney and then Ken MacAfee clad in the blue and gold shadowed Masztak's mind when he prepared for his first season as an Irish player. The "Green Wave" image produced by the Southern California vic­tory didn't set well with the freshman destined to back up Dennis Grindinger in the 1978 "Kids dream to be a part of Masztak surrenders to, no matter campaign. As Grindinger's fill-in this," says the junior finance what he wears on the field, he he played in all 11 Irish games major. "I got here; I am a part of does his job as Notre Dame's and hauled in 13 aerials for 236 it. I figured as long as I have the starting tight end, and he does it yards. opportunity I should do some­well. 
Masztak devised his own way thing. "He has real good hands," says to preserve his memory of "the "My father said if I should get Ron Toman, Notre Dame's way it used to be." Given his hassled I should tell them it was quarterback and receiving coach. choice, he'd wear the traditional so my grandmother could see me "He has good speed for a tight blue and gold instead of green. on the field. But, the coaches just end and does a good job after he He also has shunned the flashy told me to wear anything I feel catches the ball." white Nikes and opted for the comfortable in." 
(continued on page 10)
"old-time" black Adidas. No matter what superstitions 

It's a hobb_y but... 
Kelly Wen_chel excel~_ in martial arts_ 
by Kelly Sullivan Kelly hardly lives, eats, _and and academically," says 
Womens Sports Editor breathes karate as one mtght Wenchel. 
assume a champion would. In The Breen-Phillips resident 
On Cartier Field, the ACC ice, fact, the Pittsburgh, Pa., native had no intention ofcontinuing in or the courts of the Rock, the didn't even get started in martial martial arts at Notre Dame until desire is the same -to be the arts for athletic purposes. she received word in June that best that you can. Day after day, "Mymomanddadfeltlneeded her point total during the year Notre Dame's skilled and not so to learn self-defense," she re-had propelled her into the coun­skilled athletes go at it, from lates. "I just thought of it as try's top slot. rugby to raquetball, sharing a something to do-more of a "I couldn't give it up when I common dream in the back of pastime than anything else." found outI was first," she smiles. 
their minds -to someday be Wenchel joined the Academy And who could blame her? number one. of Martial Arts when she was 10 ~ost wou~d con~ur that defe~­Amidst all the athletes and all and by age 17, had earned her dmg a natwnal tttle at age 18 ts the action taking place after black belt_ the highest com-n?t th_e worst prospect _the en-classes, one is apt to overlook a t.t. · d' ·s· of karate gmeenng student ever wtll face. 
pe 1 tve tvt ton · "I'd l"k · 1
diminutive figure in the corner of . 1 e t-o repeat as natwna J\fter two s~as<;ms of var~ous champ, but," she emphasizes,
the Rock taking part in her own en­re~wn_al and JUntor champ10f,l-"my real goal is to be nominatedand rather unique athletic 
shtps m brown belt, Wenchel s to the Trias Internationaldeavor. But this is one compet­pastime seemed ~o be developi?g Society_ that's really big." Theitor who should not go unoticed. 
t~to _an occupatH;m, but she_ m-Society is an elite group ofblackHer name is Kellv W enchel. 
ststs tt never dommated her ltfe. belt members of the UnitedShe looks like your cypical Notre 
Dame freshman. Yet there's "Oh, it's just one part of my States Karate Association. life. I wouldn't want to do it full 
nothing typical about her sport With off-campus crime climb­
or her feats. time. I don't even think about it ing at a frightening rate, the that much. It's kind ofa reflex to
True, Kelly shares every ath­South Bend Police Dept. may 
me now," she says matter-of­
letes goal ofreaching the top. but check in to the services of unlike most, she has accom­factly. another of Notre Dame's­plished that task, and at age 18 W enchel works-out at the national champions. "Kelly yet. Rock every-other day for about Wenchel is one girl," says a 
The sport? Martial arts. known two hours, perfecting her form friend, "that I wouldn't mind to many as karate. and style in the kata compe­walking around with late at The accomplishments? tition, an individual routine e­night." ­National Champion for the '79-valuated by judges. 
"Karate has done a lot for my The picture at right attests to Kelly'80 season in both black belt and 
Wenchel's success in the martial arts.
sparring divisions. self-discipline, both physically 


Trish / by Bill 

-1. tems · Marquard 
OUT OF THE BLOCKS-Notre Dame's 2-0 record this season in football marks its best start since Dan Devine's first squad went 3-0 in 1975. That year the Irish defeated Boston College (17-3), Purdue (17-0) and Northwestern (31-7) before losing to Michigan State (10-3). 
Notre Dame has scored more points in its first two games this season than in any other year under Devine. Their 60-point total is most closely matched by the 34-point sum in '75 and'79. 
OPEN UP L.._ A glance at the records might convince Notre Dame's schedule makers to pencil a few more open dates into the Irish slate.Since Knute Rockne became coach in 1918, Notre Dame has posted a 17-6-2 record in games played following open dates. Nine of those games h~tve been season­ending clashes with Southern Cal, in which Notre Dame is 2-5­
2: Since Devine has been under the Golden Dome,the Irish are 4-1 after open weekends, losing only to Michigan (28-14)in 1978. 
DEVINE INTERVEN:riON-Following Notre Dame's aweinspiring victory over Michigan State, the Michigan student newspaper indulged in some posthumousevangelizing. The headlines in their Monday edition read "Michigan27, Notre Dame 26., God 3." 
IT CAN'T HURT-Creighton Miller, star halfback for Notre Dame in the mid-40's and now a lawyer in Cleveland, recalls that there may be more truth than mythwhen it comes to divine intervention for thelrish. Miller remembers his coach, Frank Leahy, taking the entiresquad to the cemetary before big games to say a rosary at Rockne'sgrave. 
"I'm not sure if it helped," remarks Miller, "but it didn't hurt." 
TWO-MINUTE WARNING-There have been only eight occasions in the history ofNotre Dame football when the Irish have been deprived of victory in the last two minutes of a football game, the most recent being Southern Cal's field goal with two seconds left to nip the Irish 27-25 in 1978. 
On the other side ofthe winner's circle, the Irish have scored the winning or tying points after the two-minute warningin 14 games. Southern Cal and Iowa have been the victims three times apiece. 
KNIGHT-LESS KNICKS-The NBA's New York Knicks announced last week thatToby Knight, who played for the Irish from 1,974-78, will be sidelined for the entire NBA season because of ligament damage tohis left knee. Knight, who averaged 19 points last year and has beena starting forward for the Knicks for the past three seasons, was injured during an exhibition game last Tuesday.He'll be in a leg cast for three months and will spend the next three to six months undergoing rehabilitation. 
CROSS COUNTRY FROM ACROSS THE COUNTRY­Notre Dame's Irish Invitational, the largest collegiate cross country meet in the nation, will boast five of the top-twenty harrying(is that a word?) squads in the country. According to the mo'st recent issue ofThe Harrier, the bible ofAmerican cross country, Auburn is rated third nationally,Michigan seventh, Indiana eighth, Florida 19th and Illinois State 20th. All five of those teams, plus the host Irish and some 50 other schools, will take to the Burke Memorial GolfCourse course (huh?) starting at 2 p.m. Saturday. 
SPEAKING OF INVITATIONALS-The Notre Dame men's tennis teamwill see its only action of the fall when the' Irish host the eight-team Notre DameInvitational. Surprisingly enough,the same teams will be back this year that competed lastfall. Four-time defending champion Miami (Ohio) will be among the pre-tourney favorites, along with the host Irish who finished their spring campaign with a bri!liant 20-3 record and the Eastern Collegiate Tennis Championship. Play begins Friday morning at 9 a.m. and runs through late-Saturday afternoon. 
JV JUNKED-Notre Dame's final j~nior varsity football game ofthe season has been cancelled. Originally scheduled for Sunday afternoon in East Lansing against Michigan State,the game was scrubbed because the Irish did not have enough personnelto field a team. All NCAA football players are limited to playing in 11 games (eitherJV or varsity) during the regular season, and JV Coach Gene Smith expliained that some of thoseJV players might have to be called on later in the season for the varsity. 







