
... SLF -Page 6 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, MARCH 5, 1980 
Former Alaska Governor Walter ]. Hickel will address tonight's Mock Republican Convention, as keynote speaker. 
Anderson UJins Massachusetts 
BOSTON (AP) -Rep. John Anderson surged from the Re­publican field to hold Ronald Reagan and George Bush to startling standoffs last night in the Vermont and Massachu­setts primaries. Sen. Edward Kennedy gained a landslide vic­tory at home iq Massachusetts, but President Carter swamped him in Vermont. 
Anderson led by a handful of votes as the Vermont vote neared completion. He had led throughout most of the evening but Reagan earned a spurt of late votes.. from a number of rural towns. 
Anderson remained narrowly ahead in Massachusetts. · 
The white-thatched congress­man from Illinois was the big gainer in a two-primary day. After campaigning as a lonely, liberal outsider, he earned his credentials as a contender in contests to come. 
Kennedy was gaini 1g 65 per­cent of Massachusert's Demo­cratic vote. He told a Bos­ton victory rally that his vic­tory proves the voters ''will not tolerate an inflation rate of 20 percent and an inter­est rate of 17 percent.'' They want, he said, the wage-price freeze he advocates. 
"We have faced adversity and disappointment'' in the challenge to Carter, he said, but none so serious as the economic woes facing the A­met;ican people. 
Anderson succeeded in vali­dating his claim that the Re­publican race has not narrowed to a two-candidate affair be­tween Reagan and Bush. 
With more than two-thirds of the Massal ~usetts precincts counted, Anderson was gain­ing 31 percent of the vote, .Bush 31 percent and Reagan 
In Stepan Center 

Mock ConVention opens tonight 
by Michael Onufrak 
Senior Copy Editor 
The 1980 Refublican Mock Convention wil open tonight when University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh delivers the invocation at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center. 
Hesburgh will be foJJowed to the speaker's platform by Indi­ana Gov. Otis Bowen, who will deliver the welcoming address,,. and former Secretary of the Interior Walter J. Hickel, who will deliver the Mock Conven­tion's keynote address. 
Hickel, a former governor of Alaska, will also address the Notre Dame Law School at 
12:15 p.m. and hold a press conference at 2 r.m. at the M.:mis Inn. Hicke is attending the Mock Convention in con­junction with the presidential campaign of former Texas Gov­ernor John Connally. 
Besides tonight's speakers, reports of the Mock Conven­tion's Rules and Credentials Committees will be given. 
The convention will continue tomorrow night with the pres­entation, consideration, and a­doption of the 1980 Republican Mock Convention Platform. Tomorrow night's speakers in­clude Cissy Bake(, daughter of Senate Majorjty leader Howard Baker, Illinnis Congressman Henry Hyde, former Gov. Har­old Stassen, and Dr. George Crane. Hyde is the author of the controversial Hyde amend­ment which opposes govern­ment abortion funding. He is a supporter of former California Gov. Ronald Reagan for the Republican presidential nomi­nation. 
Stassen is a signer of the United Nations Charter, former President of the University of Pennsylvania, and the only Republican candidate who will represent himself at the Mock Convention. Crane is the father of Republican hopeful Sen. Phillip Crane ofIllinois. He is a syndicated Indiana newspaper columnist. 
Fr. Donald F. Shea, C.PP.S., will address the Mock Conven­tion on Friday night. Fr. Shea currently serves as. the Republi­can National Committee's Dir­ector of Liason for Ethnic and Religious Groups and was form­erly a professor of history at Saint Joseph's College in Rens­selaer, IN. ,for 30 years. 
Shea will be followed Friday night by George Bush Jr. who will speak on behalf of his father Ambassador George Bush. Denise Anderson will then speak on behalf of her father Illinois Congressman John Anderson. 
Following these last two cam­paign adresses the Mock Con­vention will hold nominations and begin ballotting for their presidential nomination. 
Saturday's Mock Convention highlights will include an ad­dress by ND graduate and California Congressman Daniel Lundgren and the balloting for the vice-presidential nominee. 

All convention proceedings will be held in Stepan Center; and 29 percent. 
will begin at 7 p.m. with the  
exception of Saturday's session  
which will stan at 2 p.m.  
u.S.admits  
to foul-up  
on Israel vote  
WASHINGTON· (AP) -Secre­ 
tary of State Cyrus R. Vance  
took responsibility yesterday  
for a "foulup" in which the  
United States voted for a U.N.  
resolution critical of Israel's  
occupation of'east Jerusalem.  
The U.S. vote in favor of  
the resolution touched off a  
diplomatic and political furor·  
and President Carter issued  
a statement Monday night say­ 
ing the vote had bten an  
error and was cast in the  
mistaken belief that references  
to Jerusalem had been deleted.  
·JJ State D~partment spokesman  
Hodding Carter said yesterday  
that Vance was taking respon­ 
sibility for the "foulup" and  
that President Carter's instruc­ 
jons on how to vote on the  
issue were not transmitted cor­ 
rectly to Donald McHenry, the  
U.S. Ambassador to the United  
Nations.  
''The Secretary of State ac­ 
cepts responsibility for the fail­ 
ure in communications,''  
spokesman Carter said.  
Following Satuday's U.N. vote  
the Israeli cabinet, meeting  
in Jerusalem, formally rejected  
the Security Council resolution  
which called for dismanding  
all old and new Jewish set­ 
tlements in occupied Arab ter­ 
ritory. The Israeli cabinet  
.expressed dismay over the U.S.  
vote.  
The resolution's repeated ref­ 
erences to Jerusalem as occu­ 
pied territory is particularly  
mitating to israel. The city was reunited during the Six­Day war of 1967 and is now the country's 'Capital. In the "clarification" issued  I I J j  
by the White House on Mon­day, President Carter assured Israel that the vote "does not represent a change in our  ~  
position regarding the Israeli  
settlements in the occupied  
areas nor regarding the status  
ofJerusalem.''  
According to Sate Department  
spokesman C::.arter, before Mc­ 
Henry could vote for the re­ 
solution the references to J e­ 
rusalem were to have been  
:leleted. The instructions were  
"mistranslated," he said.  
In Addition to infuriating the  
Israelis, McHenry said at a  
news conference that the ad­ 
ministration's repudiation of its  
vote Wll;S certain to anger the  
Arab world.  
''The effect in the /Arab world will not be loving,"  
McHenry said. He said there  
would be "wounded feelings"  
among Arab governmc::nts. .  

In Vermont, Anderson and Reagan each had 31 percent, and Bush was well back at 22 percent. 
That left the candidates short of the 40 percent required to win any delegates there; they will be chosen later at a state party convention. 
The three GOP leaders were to divide about equally most of Massachusetts' 42 Repub­lican delegates. 
Reagan said he was not un­happy to be in a three-way tie in Massachusetts. 
Reagan and Bush, who had struggled for the elusive man-· tle of Republican frontrunner, left the Republican field without a clear leader. This could make it easier for for­mer President Gerald R. Ford to enter the competition be­latedly. 

Anderson's support was bouy­ed by a hefty turnout of in­dependent voters in the Repub­lican primaries in both states. That' won't be available to him later in closed primaries where only registered Republicans can vote. 
J ody Powell, in Burlington, Vt., said Vermont Democrats provided Carter with his widest margin of the season, 3 to 1. 
[continued on page 10] 
Ata record 17.25% 

Inflation signalsprime rate increase 
NEW YORK (AP) -With business still lining up to borrow money despite record-high interest rates, major banks yesterday raised their prime lending rates to a record 17 114 percent. 
The increase, begun by Chase Manhattan Bank and matched by nearly every major bank, came in response to new signs the Federal Reserve is determined to tighten credit. 
''The Federal Reser:ve is now telling us it is aiming for a recession,'' said William Gibson, an economist with the Wall Street firm of Smith Barney, Aarris Upham & Co. "It's trying to do whatever it takes to slow down the economy.'' 
"We're on the brink of a credit crisis," said another Wall Street economist, David Jones of Hubrey G. Lanston & Co. "It's very likely the cost of money will be prohibitive to a growing number of small and middle-sized companies." 
Chase Manhattan, the third-largest bank in the nation, cited a "very strong" demand for business loans and rapidly rising interest rates it pays to acquire funds as the reasons for the increase from 16 3/4 percent. 

The prime rate is charged by banks on loan.s to their most credit-worthy corporate borrowers. It ' stood at 151 I 4 percent Feb. 15 when the Federal 
Reserve launched its latest effort to tighten credit as a way of fighting inflation. 
Other industrial and commercial borrowers pay more than the prime rate, in some cases more than 20 percent. But the demand for loans has grown in recent weeks, despite the high rates. 
The prime rate does not directly affect rates on consumer loans, but is widely watched as an indicator of short-term interest rates. 
The surge in rates this week came after the Federal Reserve acted to reduce the amount of reserves available to banks, and thereby reduce the·amount of money available for lending. 
Among the banks that .{>OS ted the 171 I 4 percent prime was San Francisco-based bank of America, the nation's largest ranked by de­posits. Among the top 10 banks, only No. 2 Citibank, ofNew York, failed to join the move to 171 I 4 percent. Citibank traaitionally announces changes in its prime rate on Fridays. 
Most Wall Street analysts think the prime rate wiU keep rising, probably to 18 percent and perha.Ps beyond, as the Federal Reseve tries to fight mflation by slowing the economy. . 


News in?brief 
Wednesday, March 5, 1980 -page 2 
Thirteen year oldtycoon rewrites NYtax law 
ALBANY, N.Y.-Jody Gerard, the 13-year-old required to pay sales tax on his fisbing-worm sales, was met by scowls when he confronted State Tax Commissioner James Tully. But Tully says he was only teasing as he tried Monday to convince J ody that he never meant to be an ogre. And J ody, in a similar spirit, presented the Legislature with a bag of red wrigglers "just so you all remember me." "I'm glad you dectded to help change this law. If you figure it out logically, it cost the state more to collect the whole $3 tax I paid than I could pay in my childhood,'' said J ody in a brief speech he had prepared for the occasion. 
CAB grants approvalfor service to Cleveland -~ 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Air Wisconsin received permission today from the Civil Aeronautics Board to begin providing non-stop service between South Bend and Cleveland. The airline was among 26 carriers allowed to add an additional route each under an automatic entry provision of the airline deregulation act. The provision permits an airline to apply for one new route a year for three years starting in 1979. The CAB must grant the request unless it finds that an award would substantially harm the national air transportation system, or if an incumbent carrier has successfully protected that route. On Dec. 31, 1981, the CAB will lose its authority over domestic routes and the airlines will have almost total freedom to fly where they want. 
U.S. agrees to buygrain left from Soviet embargo 
WASHINGTON -Agriculture Secretary Bob Bergland announced today plans to buy up to 13 million metric tons of wheat and corn, part of the gram that President Carter two months ago embargoed from d~li~ery to the Soviet Un~o~. Officials said the purchases will mvolv~ _up to 4.25 mtlhon metric tons of wheat and up to 9 mtllwn of corn. The purchases will be made ''at prevailing market prices'' from country elevators and, in some cases, farmers themselves. No costs were announced, but at current farm prices the furchases could total as much as $1.4 b~ll~on, including about f819 million for the corn and $582 mtllton for the whellt. 

!f:veather 
I 
Snowshowers Wednesday, tapering off to flurries, with a possible accumulation of 1-3 inches. Temperatures falling tnto the 20s by afternoon. Partial clearing Wednesday night and cold. Lows in the teens. Partly sunny Thursday. Highs in the low to mid 20s. 

',... r ... , 
Keeping low profile 

ND publishes research journal 
by Laura L Larimore It features articles of biologi­
Senior Staff Reporter cal interest, contributed by 
researchers primarily from the 
Have you ever looked United States and Canada.. through the campus telephone Occasional entries have come book and seen a hsting "Amer­from places as far away as ican Midland Naturalist''? The India, according to Juanita Observer did, and decided to Thomas, secretary of the publi­investigate. cation. 
The American Midland Natu• Articles are unsolicited, but ralist is a professional journal rather are research abstracts, published quarterly at Notre whose authors use the Natural­Dame through the Ave Maria ist as a vehicle for exposure. Press.· 
The editor of the American Midland Naturalist is Robert P. Mcintosh, professor of Biology at Notre Dame. Members of
D'Antuon.o 
to sing 

tonight Sat., match 8 

Angela D' Antuono, soprano with several New York City 
1-3 pm Llbtaty Aud. opera companies, will be pre­sented in recital by the Univer­
Reception to follow sity of Notre Dame Concert Series at 8: 15pm. The program 
in the Memorial Library Audi­torium is open to the public 
HEPBURN WEEKEND 
without charge. D' Antuono has sung roles 

CARROLL HALL 
with the Brooklyn Lyric Opera, including that of Mtmi in Puc­


PHILADELPHIA STORY
cini's "La Boheme." Her 
thurs., march 6 ... 7 & 9
operatic roles for the spring season include Rosalinda in a new production of ''Die Rleder­
'PAT AND MIKE 
maus at Kingsborough Com­
fri.,march 7•••7,9 & 11 
. munity College in New York, and that of .Madame Butterfly 
ADAM'S RIB 
with the Richmond Opera of 
march 8.•. 7 9 & 11
Staten Island. 
D' Antuono will be accom­panied by John Van Buskirk, a graduate of the Eastman and J ulliard Schools of Music. The program will include arias by Bizet,Barber, Rossini and Verdi, as well as Spanish songs by Granados, Turina and Guridi . 
._The Observer_ $1.00 adttUMitm 1606 w. Wm~ ~.
Night Editor:Ann Monaghan Assistant Night Editors: Dan­ny Tarullo, Mike J ans 

ctd! K9CK at 233-5525 flo.tt ~ 
Copy Editor:MB Moran 


the Executive Committee in­clude Robert E. Gordo·n, Theo­dore J. Crovello, Ronald A. 
Hellenthal, and  Richard  W.  
Greene,  all  of  the  Biology  
Department.  

The journal has also sponsored a hard-bound monograph series in the past. Only one edition is ·still in print; others are avail­able as reprints. 
The only student participa­tion has been occasional help with the mailing list, said Thomas. "I do most of the incidental work,like unpacking, by myself," she explained. 

Wednesday, M& 
12:15 pm LECTIJ.h.. 'energy and world peace," 15ov. walter hickel of alaska, fo.mer secretary of the intenor, spons, international law society, LAW SHCOOL BASEMENT ; OU.NGE. · 
SCHOOl EXHIBITION, student photography exhibition, ISIS GALLERY. 
4pm OPEN DISCUSSION, "is donald gerry right?" spons: nd women's organization, LIBRARY LOUNGE. 
4:30pm REILLY LECTIJRE, "glycoproteins: attachment and modtfication of oligosaccharide chain uf. william j. lennarz, 123 NIEUWLAND, spons: dept •• ._uemistry. 
6pm TALK, gov. walter j. hickel of alaska, speaking on behalf of gov. john connally's presidential campaign, HAYES· HEALY AUD. 
6 8pm VOLUNTEER DAY, volunteer orgamzations, a mini 
acnvities night, LOBBY, SMC.  spons:  smc  volunteer  services,  LEMANS  
6:30pm MEETING, sailing club, 204 O'SHAG.  
7pm  MOCK  CONVENTION,  invocation-­ rev.  theodore  

hesburgh; welcoming address--gov. otis r. bowen; keynote apdress-"why war?", walter j. hickel, former gov. of alaska, campaign talk candidate ben fernandez, STEPAN CENTER. 
7, lOpm FILM, "hamle•," ENGR. AUD. spons: stud. union. admission $1. 
8:15pm GUEST ARTIST angela d'antuono-soprano, LIBRARY AUD. spons: dept. of music. 
Layout:Mary Leavitt News Editor:Mark Rust Editorial Layout:Ann Gales Features Layout:K. Connelly Sports Layout:) ohn Smith Typists:Carol Cornwall, Ka­thy Festin, Katie Bigane, Kathy Murray, John Smith, Ann Monaghan EMT: Mike Galvin Proofreader:Paul Hurley ND Day Editor:Washerwo­
man Campbell Ad Design:Anne Fink, Mike Holsinger · Photographer:Beth Prezio Guest Appearances:Deirdre 
Murphy, Mikey Ruhe, Tawm Schuster, Scoop, John ''Lameduck'' McGrath 
last week's Paper ofthe Week: SteveSwonk 
Tilt Obs1rv1r [USPS -IZV] Is 
published Monday through Friday II· cept during 111m and VICitilll ..... The Observer Is publlsllld br till students rrl Nlltnl 011111 IMI Slillt Miry's Cll..... Sublcriptilalllly Ill purcllned f• S2ll 111r year IS11 1111' llllllltlrl from The Observer. P.O. ba 
0. Nltl'IDIIIII, lltdllllll 4llilil. SICMd 
cl111 =paid, Nltrt D11111, ln­
dilllll . 
The Observer is 1 llllllllllr II till Alloci1tld Prm. An ttptllllctllll rigllts lrl riiii'VId. 


When you're discussing something as important as 
your future, it's urgent that you get the straight facts 
... and that you understand them. Air Force ROTC 
can be an important part of your future. We would like 
to outline some of the facts and invite you to look into 
gathering more. 
It's a fact: the Air Force needs highly-qualified, dedi­
cated officers ... men and women. It's a fact: we need 
people in all kinds of educational disciplines. It's a fact: 
we're prepared to offer financial help to those who can 
qualify for an Air Force ROTC scholarship. 
Get together with an AFROTC representative and 
discuss the program. We'll give you all the facts. It 
could be one of the most important talks you've ever 
had with anyone about your educational plans. 
For additional information call CPT Davis at 283-6634 
0 

ROTC 


d I 
T_he Observer Wednesday, March 5, 1980 -page '3 




Aide sees Aprilas last chancefor Ford 
ari interview with the New York 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Ger­
Times, saying Ronald Reagan

ald Ford's chief aide says that 
cannot win because he is too

by AP.ril , Ford either will be in 
conservative. Ford said he will

pres1oential politics up to ·his 
decide by April 1 whether to

ear-S· or he wtll be out of them 
jump into the race to provide a

forever. 
more,moderate alternative.

"By the first of April you are 
Reagan's response was that

~oing to know where Jerry Ford 
"we'd all like to see him pack

1s,'' said Bob Barrett. ''Jerry 
his long johns and come out

Ford is going to be blown off 
here on the primary trail with

the scope J?Olitically or Jerry 
us." Gov. Richard Snelling of

Ford is gomg to be formid­
Vermont,· a supporter of Sen.

able." 
Howard Baker since Ford de­clined a spot on today's ballot ' 'By the first of April said Monday that Ford would 
make the best president. 

The mathematics of the situ-you are going to know ation, as well as the politics of ·-it, dictate that Ford had better 
~ --hunl with his decision.
where Jerry Ford is.'' 
0 the 36 states holding Republican, primary contests Until last weekend, the form­this Jear,_ 17 already have 
er president maintained he is close their books to the entry not interested in running but of candidates or have held their that he would accept a genuine J>rimaries. That means 774 draft from th~ Republican Par­delegates already unavailable 
ty. to Ford, except for a handful of uncommitteds.
But he went a little further in 

C!ane's father to speak at ND 
had four boys and one girl. The delegates to the convention at
by B. Berry 

e~dest. boy 1,George Jr., was 7:30p.m. killed tn 1956 when his Marine
Dr. George Crane will appear Denise Anderson is schedul­
jet crashed on an exhibition
at the. Republican Mock Con­ed to appear at the convention
flight. Phil, Dan and David are
vention tomorrow night, ac­at 7:30 p.m. Friday. She will
according to People, "Fourth:
cording to Tom Jackman, cam­precede George Bush, Jr., and
generation Grano Old Party­
paign manager of the campus the traditional nominating talks
liners whose political territory
Phil Crane for President Com­and selection of a presidential
is to the right of Reagan's." 
candidate.

mittee. 
All are actively involved in
According to the Sept. 11, 
politics. Other n<>ted convention 1978 issue of People magazine, guests include Gov. Otis R. 
Crane, the presidential conten­Three addtional guests have Bowen, Indiana; candidate Ben 
der's father, has been a "cur­~nnounced plans to participate Fernandez, California; Gov. 
mud~eonly trumpet of the right tn the Mock Political Conven­Harold Stassen,· Minnesota;all h1s life." tio~, accor~ing to Jay J. Kane, Gov. Walter J. Hickel, Alaska;Dr. Crane is best known for asststant dtrector of Informa-Rev. Dor:tald F. Shea, Republi­his advice column, "The Worry tion Services. ­can Nattonal Committee, and Clinic'', syndicated in 300 news­Rep. Henry Hyde of Illinois Rep. Dan Lundgren, California. 
papers. 
will represent Ronald Reagan,
Dr. Crane and his wife, Cora, Jackman said that Bowen
Republican candidate for the 
came ou~. as a strong Ford

presidential nomination, and 
s~ppor_ter m a recent interview

the daughters of Howard Baker 
With Tzme magazine. He added 

and John Anderson will speak 
that Hickel_..is a surrogate for

Chemist for their fathers at the Stepan ) ohn Connally. Lundgren willCenter convention. 
represent K.eagan, Jackman 

Hyde has been a member of concluded.to present Congress since 1974. He is the 
prime sponsor of a series of !....................... '''!'''······ ...................... .c amendments to prohibit the use ofFederal Funds for abortions. I~ND :,~;
lecture Hyd_e will attend a 5 p.m. i= SMC ~­
THEATRE 18'""178

reception tomorrow in LaFor­tune Student Center. He is 
ST. MARY'S CO.£.£eGe

Professor William J. Lennarz expected to make. a brief ap­from the John Hopkins Univer­pear~nce at the convention 
!III!BX'

sity School of Medicme's where a vote on the student Department of Physiological platfc;>rm is scheduled for late SMILIS. Chemistry, will present lectures evenmg. today and Friday as part of the 
Cissy Baker, the youngest of 116. 291t(Gldt 1-6-7_gRe'illy Lectures m Chemistry at 
the senator's two children, will
Notre Dame. All lectures will *4.00 <•a:oo60l/6ae/&fai)
hold a news conference tomor­
l ........................IJ......................, ••••••••••.-1

be delivered in Room U3 in 
row afternoon and address
Nieuwland Science Hall at 4:30 
p.m. 
Lennarz, who earned his Ph.D. from the Un~iversity of Illinois in 1959, became an 
' assistant professor at John Hofkins in 1962 and became a ful professor in 1971. Among his honors are included the Clayton Scholar Award, the Lederle Medical Faculty Award and the Distinguished Scientist Award of the Maryland Acad­emy ofSciences. He is current­ly a member of the executive committee of the Division of 
. Biological Chemistry of the American Chemical Society. His two lectures are Glyco­proteins: attachment and Modification of Oligosaccharide Chains_, and Glycoproteins in· Fertilization and Embryonic Development, on Friday. The lecture program, featur-· ing oyer 150 distinguished scientists from the United States and abroad since it was established in 1948, was endowed by the late Peter C. Reilly. Reilly, born in Provi­dence, R.I., in 1869, organized and honed the coal-tar distil­ling company now known as the Redly Tar and Chemical Corp. 
The Observer Wednesday, March.S, 1980 -page 4 

I ' HPC announces plans for Wolllen's Week 

I 
by Bruce Oakley 
Plans for the third annual Women's Opportunity Week (Wow) at Saint Mary's were announced in an open letter to the ND/SMC community, circu­lated at last night's HPC meet­ing in St. Ed's. 
HPC chairperson Ellen Dorney read the text of the letter announcing the week's pro­gram of lectures, plays and movies centered on the theme of "Women of Inspiration." Extending from March 9 to March· 14, WOW will feature Pulitzer Prize winning poet Gwendolyn Brooks, long dis­tance swimmer Diana Nyad, andJacqueline Means, the first woman to be ordained an Episcopal minister. 
A proposed draft of new party 


II 
SAVE UP TO $3.00 
Top Artists! Major Labels! 
Many, Many More! Classics Included! Come Early lor Best Selecdon. 
Get Your Favorites at Big Dlsoouatsl 

I 
( 

THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
. 
guidelines to be discussed at Monday's CLC meeting was also circulated. 
~he meeting lasted fifteen mmutes. 
S~Csophs 
hold parents' weekend 
by Mary Agnes Carey 
Over 300 Saint Mary's soph­omores and their parents par­ticipated in the annual "Soph­omore Parent Weekend" last weekend, establishing a new attendance record for the event, according to Nini Stoll; SPW chairman. · 
"The turnout was excellent, the budget worked out, and everyone had an excellent weekend," Stoll said. 
Events for students and parents included the soph­omore ~class production, ''If They Could See Us Now,'' a champagne receptioni a faculty­admimstration pane , an aca­demic open house, a dinner­dance at Century Center, and Sunday mass at the Church of Our Lady of Loretto with brunch 
at the SMC cafeteria. 
Anita Ramker, producer and 
director of the sophomore class 
production, expressed her sa­
tisfaction with the cast, ''I was 
very pleased that the girls 
worked so hard. . They really 
had to dedicate themselves, 
since we've been rehearsing for 
six months for the show. 
Everything went as planned, if 
not better," Ramker said. 
Colleen Murphy, a soph­
omore, explained, ''The whole 
weekend was really very well 
planned and I think it was one 
of the best weekends I've had 
since I've been at Saint 
Mary's." 
Mary ] o Schramm, another 
sophomore, agreed. "Soph­
omore Parent Weekend was a 
good way to bring us closer to 
our parents as well as to our 
friends," she said. 


Dome 

names new editor 
The editorial board of the Dome has announced the ap­pointment of Meg Klingenberg­er as editor-in-chief for next year. 
Klingenberger, a sophomore Amencan Studies maJor from Fort Wayne, IN, edited both the dorm and campus organization sections of this year's Dome. In addition she wrote copy for the yearbook freshman year. 
Klingenberger brings exper­ience in both yearbook and newspaper journalism to her new position as editor of the Dome. She has also participa­ted in several journalism sum­mer workshops as well as a convention of the Columbia Scholastic Press Association. 
"I would like next year's Dome to be a record of that particular year 1980-1981, ", Klingenberger said of her goals, "and cover specifically key events of that year.'' 

--------------------~--------~--,----------------------------~~~ 
Wednesday, March 5, 1980 -page 5






Editorials 

P. 0. Box Q 
tionably grant women a consti­

Reagan fights tutional right to an abortion since the ERA disallows any distinctions on the basis of sex,
for minorities 
and since all State anti-abortion starutes are designed on (he basis of sex, such legislation,

/), ·.tr l!ditu, · 
under the ERA, is unconstiru­

(11 h1s letter to The Observer, tional. 0 1ville Buder probabl{ ex-For instance, Hawaii is one of 
· the 16 states with an ERAp lc-.-.n j th_e sent t ments o many
\iD-:-i.\1C students when he said identical to the federal ERA 
lll.ll 1{,,11aid Reagan has worked (equality of rights under the law .tga11 ht the interests of the poor shall not be denied or abridged .1 11l m11wriiies. Mr. Butler and by the State on account of sex). tillhL' wlw agree with him have In a case involving state tax 
1. 11 kd 10 examine Mr. Reagan's funding of abortions the Ameri­n·ll>rd as governor of Cali-can Ci~Liberties Union pre­'·•1111,1. If they had, they would sytea to the Hawaii Circuit il.tvc· t;>und that Mr. Reagan did Court the following argument: 111•111' h>r minorities than any Abortion is a medical pro­P'('\ ,,,us g,•vernor, and that his cedure _{>erformed only for wo­111;11\agem('nt of the state wei-men; withdrawing funding for 1.1,,. system saved it from abortions while continuing to lwll.;ruptcy. reimburse other medical pro­
l{,11~aid Reagan hired more cedures sought by both sexes or 

Theplight ofthe freshmen 
i>:acb for important state posi-only by men would be tanta­t , .. 11,.., than all previous mount to a denial of equal C.tld;•rnia governors combined. rights on the account of sex." I k appo111ted the first black to The ERA is essentially a Bob Bernoskie \wad a Califurnia department pro-abortion ammendment. ,111d selected numerous minor-The platform also contains a Editor's Note: one's vocation in life is so inextricably attached 111· u>~nmunity members for provision prohibiting abortion. This column, originally intended to preview a to self-expression. Our interests, objectives and p >i1q·-mak111g posts on boards, It is inconsistent to be both talk by Dean Raymond Tuesday night, was "Work goals" become a dimension through , ..:n:nlsslons, and the judiciary. pro-ERA and pro-Life, and, unreadable in Monday's Observer, due to which we breathe, communicate and mature. 
I k hm.:d mure Spanish-Amer-therefore, the pro-ERA pro­production difficulties. The problem which complicates this move ,, .tlh for stare positions than vision must be changed. toward career decisiveness is that before one can .Ill)' prevllJUs California gover-2) Proponents of the ERA be comfortable with what one wishes to ''do'' in
Dean Raymond of the College of Business
11"1. Fully one-fifth of his first claim that the ERA is necessary life, one must first be comfortable with what one
Administration addressed freshmen last evening 
ldll appointments were minor-to achieve economic and social "is becoming" in life as a person.
at 7:30 in the Hayes-Healy Center. His talk I 
llll'-.. equality for women in the areas To this realization is added the question of
venrure to say was timely especially for those
.\1urc· importantly, he reor-of education and employment. what is my motivation for attending collese. Am
freshmen who are undecided about the college 
g.tlllt.nl the state welfare sys-This argument is fallacious I looking to become specialized? ; made tnto the
program to their liking. 
tv<n succe,..,sfully. By 1971, the since the Equal Protection image and likeness of this or that sterotypic
Although the scheduled talk was entitled,
-,1 ,,L·m·, caseiDad was increas-Clause of the 14th Amendment tradesman? Or do I attribute value to those
"Information for Freshmen Considering Busi­
,.-1g at a rate of 40,000 people a and existing State and Federal disctphnes which elicit the beauty and unique·
ness Administration as a possible College
:n .. 111h. !(eagan's 70-point pro-Legislation already make dis­ness of my life?
Program,'' the associate dean had indicated that 
g' .1111 drDpped rhe cascload by crimination in these areas ii­
his remarks would not be limited only to those
i 11/.dOil in 3 years, saved $1 legal. Enforcement of existing The pressures of the working world can exert
freshrrien interested in the College of Business. 
b,;''"" inc11sts in two years, and legislation is necessary; not ·an overbearing influence on the goal-orientation 
As I understand it,. the heart of the evening was
1.11 ,,.,I the bend! ts for those more legislation. ofstudents to the point of eclipsing the quest for 
not to unveil a particular college's program
lili•Y 111 need by 41 percent. 3) The legislative history of self-enriching activity. Even for those interested 
formally attired for the sake of recruitment, but
I'"' rc·t',>nn drew praise from the ERA reveals that all pro­in bringing one's self to birth, the need for
to help the undecided srudent, indiscriminately, 
' , ... ugh••ut the country. Many posed amendments limiting or future financial success and fears of its
in clarifying interests and furure goals.
, ,,,,., L•>p1ed it. qualifying the ERA have been elusiveness coerce one into the role of a
The associate is amiable and
Wht·11 R"nald Reagan says he defeated leaving the ERA as an dean an competitive machine. 
understanding man who knows that the fresh­
/.hill" r.... the individual, he absolute mandate without any Toward the close of freshmen year college
man's world at this time can be all too readily
;~h·.t·h ,t//tndividuals. He <lJso. exfeptions. The ERA permits programs assist srudents to gradually focus
perceived as confusing and intimidatins.
II t' ilw record to back up 'llls. no exception for a) the draft and upon an area of concentration for the sake of
Procedures, informational tests, registration,
, .. 11:th. combat duty; b) preservation of proficiency in a.specific ski~l. But what_ of the
representatives and aptitude programs whirl in
protective legislation; c) preser­student who wishes to sull pUJcsue hts own
one's head.

Btl/ Howard vation of wife support laws; and interests?
Other peers and upperclassmen seem to have
d) preservation of the right to Is a student really free to lavish his time on
embraced a decision; a point of concentration in 
privacy in public restrooms and personal interests when it jeopardizes those
which to develo_{> and engross their talents. But
se~regation of the sexes in marketable skills so vital to future indepen­ERAprovision pnsons and reform schools. for the undecided freshman, multi-directed dence? What side of the coin should college
energy in unknown directions does not sit well. 
4) Under Section 2 of the adiminstrators advocate in such an instance? 
It is an unsettling experience with one wishing
ERA only Congress and the Skills or personhood?
incompatible with this hour may pass away.
Federal Courts will have power But I have never known of growth without Dean Raymond may not have been able toto make all final decisions about discomfort. Freshmen in this position may see remove the uncertainties for undecided freshmen 

marriage, divorce, alimony,

pro-life stand their lives at an unnecessary standstill. And in last night's talk and discussion, but for those
abortion, homosexuals and les­frankly, life is at a standstill; but not unneces­in this situation some of the tension was at leastbian privileges and the sex 

sarily. ship is mooring in the eased. Dean Raymond is well aware thatintegration of police and fire Only when a 
Dear Editor: harbor can it draw up new mventory. The same freshman year is a trying year, but a necessary
department, schools, sports, is true with we who sail the seas of academia. one. It is a year that calls for courage andThe Mock Convention Plat-hospitals, prisons and public There are times when we must stop and pull into resolution.

-form contains a provision" call­accomodations. This enforce­
the harbor. In speaking with Dean Hofman, the work of
ing for the passage of the Equal ment clause gives Congress and My freshman year was frightening. It too was the Freshman Year of Studies promotes everyRights Amendment. I believe inordinate power over items a time when I first became exposed to the cargo effort to help students evolve toward athat this _{>rovision must be traditionally within the power of of long-range goals, commitments and life compatible career. Yet before one contacts thereplaced wtth a provision op­the State. 
decisions. A few years later these concerns can teachers, advisors and career counselors ... be­posing the passase of the ERA. For these reasons a pro­still be unsettling and demanding, but a greater fore consultation with -anyone ... search your
I base this provisional change yisional change in the Platform understanding and acceptance slowly takes heart in straightforward honesty. It is the beston the following factors: IS necessary. 
shape. prayer going. To choose on the outside is of
1) Leading constitutional 
Kathy Deane Why at this time does a career assume little value, unless one has already decided onauthorities agree that ratifica­importance? For one I would say it is because the inside. 
tion of the ERA would unques­administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers · 
The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ........Rosemary Mills Sports Editor .................. Mark Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor..........Diane Wilson-Feat11res f?.ditor.....Kathleen Co~nelly 
Box Q Notre D11wu, IN 46JJ6 the Editorial Board. Commentaries Editorial Editor .............. Ann Gales Photo Edztor ..............Doug Chn~lan opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor ......... M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor.. .... Mike Lewis Business Manager .... ....Steve Odland newspaper published by the students able to all members of the ..community, News Editor .................... Mark Rust Production Manager .... John McGrath of the University of Noue Dame du lac an~ . the free expression of varying News Editor .. ............... Mike Shields Adver#sing Manager .... IM. Holsingerand Saint Mary's College. It does not opmtons on cam.pus, through letters, is . SMC New~ Editor ........ Margie Brassil Controller..................Kevin Manaon necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. Circula#on Man11ger......Greg He_dges 
-1'he Observer_·. 
... 
---------------------------------------------------------------1 


Features 
Wednesday, March 5, 1980 -page 6 
1980 Sophomore Literary Festival 
John Auerbach 
Rea:Jing -MONDAY MARCH lOth 4:00PM MEM LIB AUD 
With neither malice or charity towards anyone, John Auerbach structures the silence of our lives in such a way that is both arresting and sympathetic. 
I stood on the poop deck watching Greek islands conjured out from the sea which zpas a silver panel, and disappeanng szlently to give place to other zslands ... 
In the same way an island will both appear and disappear when one stands viewin~ it from a ship, so the stability of ltfe is transitory and wandering. Auerbach writes of the disposessed, the pathetic mambers of the Hebrew nation. He writes of a people tainted with a malevolent tntluence, a past thay can and should not for~et. 
In hts works, Auerbach builds an interesting tension which can be descrihed as ''The Unwilling Under­standing." His characters are co­erced tnCO situations in which they, albeit not by choice, must face the trith of their existence mirrored in the pathos of an unwitting companion. Industrialized man can not forget the past, says Auerbach, even by ignor­tng the present. 
He was born inWarsaw, has lived in Israel, and is presently working with Saul Bellow, a man who greatly admires him at the University of Chicago. His works have been pub­lished in Midstream and Prism magazines, and he will be included in an upcoming issue of Commentary. At the same time as he is speaking here, the Spingold Theater of Bran­deis University will be performing his play, Endgame in Kiryat Gat. 
Greg O'Jfeara 


RoyFisher 
READING-THURS MARCH13 8:00PM MEM LIB AUD POET'S WORKSHOP-FRI MARCH 14 
11:00 AM MEM LIB LOUNGE 
Fol{owing his publication of Collec­
ted F\ems: The Ghost of a Paper
Bag,(_I~9), Roy Fisher had been 
?esc~~bed as an Er:t~lish poet portray­
mg unMmpromtsmg and unsenti­
ment.al re~ism" --an artist very popu­
lar wtth th~ youngenglish generation. 
A decade since the release of 
Collected Poems, ' and countless 
miles removed from his native Bir­
mingham, Roy Fisher will address 
the University of Notre Dame at the 
upcoming Sophomre Literary Festival 
Fisher represents a rather para­doxical English nature poet. His imagery of light and wind c.'nnot be disputed, but that imagery is in competition with the confined reality of the walled, urban society. An example of this is found in a poem entitled ''The Park''. Here the reader confronts and contrasts a "sky drawn thin with frost, I its cloud-rims bright and bitter'', and a ''Shallow concrete lake,/scummed over, fouled with paper''. The essential nature of such a society must perish. • 
Fisher, born in 1930, has spent much of 'his life in and around Birmingham, England. As of 1969, the English poet had yet to visit America. After receiving his B.A. and M.A. from Birmingham Univer­sity. Fisher is currently a member of the Department of American Studies at the University of Kelle in England. He was the recipient of the Andrew Kelus Prize in 1970. 
Some of Fisher's works of verse include Correspondence, Matrix, Al­so There and Bluebeard's ·Castle. Fisher has also written a number of 

Louise Gluck 
READING FRIDAY MARCH 14th 
ME~!. LIB. AUD 8:00PM WITH CHAS. SIMIC 
POET'S WORKSHOP FRIDAY MARr:H 14th MEM. LIB. LOUNGE 11:00 AM 
Louise Gluck is undoubtedly one of the most highly regarded members of the c~ntemporary literary world; the critics agree that her distinctive style captivates her audience, ~awing the reader's ima~ination alon~ wit~ her as the poem develops. Whtle many of the works whtch appeared m Fzrstborn, her first volume of poetry, are vigorous and arresting, the uniformity of the tense emotions in her second volume, The HrJuse on the Marshland, illustrate~ how a style can mature to become even more effective. In the latter book, the reader ftnds his own identity entangled with the poem's at the end of the reading, juH as Gluck herself meshes indiscriminately the autobiographical and he universal. 
Gluck was born Arril 22, 1943 in New York City.. She attended Sarah Lawrence College and Columbia University. Her lengthy list of honors include: an Academy of American p, ets Prize, a Rockefeller Foundation grant, a National Endowment of the An ; grant, the Eunice Tietjens Memorial Prize from Poetry, and a Guggenheim I ellowshtp. In addition to the volumes previously mentioned, Gluck has written The Garden, and many of her 
•selections appear in various popular anthologies. 
Ms. Gluck's poems are highly praised by literary reviews even though they concede that her earlier works were net polished--at times the images were too obvious and the words too crowded--; nevertheless, they are still beautiful as unfinished gems. The poems are indeed brilliant, but are missing the crowning glory ~ince they too consciously strove for perfection. They are, according to the Sewanee Review: "tense performances, ... brilliant but lack reson.mce," and unfortunately the reader "cannot bel: eve a one of them." 
However the consensus seems to be unanimous that Gluck has reached a new It:vel of excellence in her later work. The critics ala: :>st seem superfluous in their praise--they say that everywhere she has r1anaged to entwine opposite elements in an emotional and realistic way. Quoting the Sewanee Review again, "Invention agrees with taste... bola and restrained ... originality. could not at the same time be more classis... purity and poise." But this seemingly excessive admiration can be understood by wanderin€ through some of her drifting lines : ''Sap rises from the sodden ditch/ anc glues two gree .I ears/ to the dead birch twig./'Perilous beauty ... " 
Gluck's poems bring together many elements of pain and confusion and beauty. She ties them together in a beautiful and moving style. Her poems seem to relfect her feelings, as well as the reader's feelings: they seem to have a life of their own. Since she has exhibited such remarkable improvement since her earlier work, which is superb, yet incomparable to the more recent efforts, there is no telling how much further she can go as she wanders through even more of life's experiences, through, as she expresses it, "the proper pain." 
Beth Minarovich 
prose poems (metamorphis and The Cu~ Ra~e), the most noteworthy of whtch ts The Ship's Orchestra a surrealistic account of an orche~tra a;>ked not to play. J ,I{L. k.
.sows .,
e11 



Jayne Anne Phillips 
READING-TUES. MARCH 11 
8:00 PM MEM LIB AUD WORKSHOP-WED* 12/10-11 AM MEM LIB LOUNGE (TENTATIVE) 
It is with a sense of urgency and what· appears to be a scorn for life th\uJ,ayne Anne Phillips writes Black Tickets. The sentences are brief, but expitJsive in getting across the au­thor's point of view--which happens to be one of contempt. The sensitive and ~ppy-go-lucky reader will not finish Black Tickets with a smile. Phillip··~ use of phallic suggestion an sexual i~uendo add an almost violent force to her writing. The scenes depict~d are of human beings all found tn tpe worst of situations. 
Most of the stories in Black Tickets are ofa page or less, but Ms. Phillips does not need much space to say a great dea! about life. Her characters are usually either destitutely poor, morally dead, or, have in some way been deprived love, caring or c. ..ense of being needed. Girls that tell each other dirty words stories in a shack while small boys listen avidly out­side; and a fourteen-year-old mute orphan girl who sells dirty pictures and hustles her bodr for her drug ad~i~t , pimp. are al exa~ined _in Philltp s wnung. The world ts deple­ted as a sadistic carnival groumd wher! the .nentally deranged are all on a free ide. 
But alo .g with the cruelty of life exists the :;orrow for those that are its victims. Although still somewhat farfetched, these few stories add a touch of sentiment that is noticeably absent beforehand. The common situation is the more or less reluctant return home of a young woman, usually a student or teacher, who finds herself challenged or threat­ened by _parent's concern about what she's domg with her life. There is also the father who touchingly deflects his worry about his daughter into an obsessive and annoying worry of her car, and the mother who upon hearing her daughter making love with her boyfriend, leaves the house, not out of offended assumptions of decercy, but because she fears revh ag her dead interest in sexual 
grat .lcation. Bt, ck Tickets is not a collection of 
fairy  tales  about  people  that  live  
happily  ever  after,  but  then,  few  
people  in  real  life  ever  do.  

Instead, Jayne Anne Phillips takes a harsh look at reality and puts society through the ringer. In the process, she provides an awakening for those persons who have a tendency to act as if the world were just fine and dandy as it is. Unfortunately, it is these same people that will not get past the title page without consider­tor the book worthless. 
Robert Bacic 

John Cage 

READING -8:00 WED MARCH 12th MEM LIB AUD WORKSHOP-I :00 THURS MARCH 13th MEM LIB AUD 
Recipient ofa Guggenheim Fellow­ship in 1949 and an award from the National Academy of Arts and Let­ters, ) ohn Cage has constantly confounded audiences for his radical innovation in musical composition and literature. 
Born in Los Angeles in 1912, and educated at Ponoma College, Cage made his debut in New York in 1943. Cage, a former student of avant -garde composer Arnold Schoenberg, directed a large group of musicians who played flowerpots, brake bands, and other objects. Schoenberg, Cage claimed, was never radical enough. In an interview in 1946,cage stated that his major contribution to musical composition was the elimination of harmony. 
Cage carries his radical artistic views to literature. Author of M: Selected Wn'tings 67-72, and several other works, Cage expresses Zen Buddhist comvictions. Both his music and his literary works reflect Cage's artistic and intellectual diversity. Concert-goers, readers and students of art ftnd Cage's work stimulating, innovative and, sometimes, shocking. 
Peggy Glanville-Huhs once wrote: '') ohn Cage is one of the rarest people ... not only is he endowed with humor, an inordinate sense of beauty and purity, and a brilliant musical brain, but he brings with him, wherever he may be, the happiness and tranquility of an integrated personality and a mind of peace." 
Steve Tantillo 

Charles Simic 
REA"QING -W /LOUISE GLUCK 8:00,~RI. MARCHI4th 
MEM~LIB AUD POET'S, WORKSHOP -11:00 AM FR. M,\RCH 14th MEM LIB LOUNGE 

Charles Simic, Yugoslavian born poet presently residing in the United States, is the author of four books of poetry: What the Grass Says (1967), Somewhere Amoung us a Stone is Taking Notes, Dismantling the Si­leflce (1971), and White (1972). He also translated the works of several French, Russian and Yugoslavian writers including Vasko Popa and Luan Luok. Simic graduated from New York University in 1966 with a bachelor of arts. He is presently teaching at California State College in Hayward. 
Simic's poetry is primarily con­cerned with the relationship between individual man and the natural world around him, which, Simic _perceives is innately good and leads to the truth. The natural world speaks with a different language, and for Simic, the major problem for the poet is to struggle with the deftencies of the language of man which must inter-. pret what the poet intuitively per­ceives from his touch with nature. 
Simic's poetic style has been described as one of austure simplici­ty. He prefers a plain phrase and describes concrete tmages. Paradoxi­cally, his strong common oblects 
(continued next page) 
___.........­

The Observer Wednesday, March S, 1980 -page 1 

John Barth . 
READING SUNDAY MARCH 9th 
8:30PM MEM. 'LIB. AUD. 
.Dismantling the Silence WORKSHOP MONDAY MARCH lOth MEM. LIB LOUNGE 10-llAM 
Jane Barber 

Wuthering Hetf,hts by D.H. Lawrence and Tom jones by Samuel Beckett, these are two hterary possibilities that John Barth, a speaker at the April Fool's Day 1979 • the deadline sealed and delivered over the sum-Sophomore Literary Festival, would like to spend evening~ discussing. The for submitting your '..name if you mer. The anxious waiting be_gins.
creation of such novels would represent for Barth the sol·utton to one problem wanted to take a plunge into the Did th~ invitations geat lost 10 thein literature. This problem, called "used-upness" by Barth, is that there unknown and tryout. for the position mail? Why hasn't anyone called back 
seems to be only so many ways to put words, sentences, paragraphs, and of chairman of the sixteenth edition yet? Are they all vacationing in theplots together into ideas. .. of the Sophomore. Literary festival. Swiss Alps? Will anyone RSVP?John Barth was born on May 27, 1930. He gre~ up i~ eastern Maryland The brand-new Cultural Arts Com-Queries similar to these nag the · during the rime that authors found themselves seekmg radical ways to combat missioner, .Pave.Ellison sent out a minds ofthe members constantly."used-upness." The modernist ~roup, which includes Joyce, Eliot, and ·plea for applicant$ to students of all When the replies begm to roll tn, .Beckett. often abandoned the traditional modes of narrative. Barth became majors. ..· · . . the gambling of speaker roo!~tte · familiar with the works and ideas ofthese writers while he attended John Somehow tge freshmen-dire<;ted pos· commences. You p·lay the wamngHopkin& University in Baltimore from 1947 to 1?52,. After receiving. ?is ters neglected to mention the book-game in constant appr<:hension ofbachelor's degree in 1951, Barth remained at Hopk10s 10 the graduate wnung reading,.nail-bitins, time-gambling, ,accepting a not;so-favonte speakerprogram. · sleep~losing expenence that would one day, spending the last of theThe diverse nature of his literary studies influenced the ways Barth was to awatt th(! prospective, unsuspecting budget, only to receive a call the next overcome "used-upness" in his writing. At the same time he studied and chairmen $d committee members. day from the author of your dreamsread the Modernists he "discovered" the epic tale cycles of Oriental A mere ten days later the kids who who would be pleased to speak but isliterature works such'as The Thousandand One Nights, and the stories of the hs···oabde$rieg···,J·.n,ed·an·itl'..w·.ase....r·ean wAepp,rilt uFpoo}'ts. jothkee nottoo fond of benefit lectures. Youeighteenth century . The.complexity of these works, their narrative inversions u d · 510 0 live in fear of having to turn someoneand diversions, and their vivid characters fascinated Barth. enthusiasm ot the Festival. when likethatdown because there's just nqIn his novels, Barth combines the disparate aspects of his studies. The first interviews 'Were conducted before' a money left. -Also,. an affirmative three The Floating Opera (1956), The End of the Road(1958), and The board consisting of the Cultural Ans response from an author in JanuarySot-Weed Factor(1960), form a trilogy of nihilism. The setting of the two Commissioner, a few Engtish faculty ·:.does not ne~ess.arily guarantee .heearlier works is contemporary eastern Maryland. These books portray men members and, most importantly, the will be lecturtng 10 March. Negattvewho share the Modernist view of life as absurd and meaningless and develop chairman of the 1979 Festival. The apologetic calls, the mixing up of a "casual shoulder-shrugging acceptance." In spite of the contemporary applicants realized the responsibility plane tickets and inclement South themes a~d setting, Barth fills these stories with mythical and classical involved in chairing the largest single Berid weat1-ter have been known to allusions and techniques. expenditure made annvally by the change the outlook for a SophomoreFor some readers, his classical techniques prove too heavy-handed, but Student Government. The intended Literary Festival in the rime you cancritical and under-~round acclaim for Barth grew as he took his sythesis style budge.t for the 1980 Festival was turn a novel's page. one step farther with The Sot-Weed Factor. This novel, deals ~gain with the approximately $13,000 to be spent Besides luring prominent authors tonihilist view of life, but the setting is eighteenth century colomal Maryland. by the inexperienced hands of mere speak, the committee must also Based on satirical poems from 1708, The Sot-IJ7eed Factor presents BA~th's soon-to-be sophomore who at this devise a publicity campaign that will distortions and imitations of novels and histoncal documents of the penod. point had opt been residents of athe attract a large number of students. For the next six years, Barth worked on the n~JVelsthat .would b~ his ~ew Old Notre Dame campus for even eight This yeat's campaign was intriguingTestament. His "souped-up" Bible appeared 10 1966 with the title Gzles, the months. But there's "the charm" of and clever. The first step of the Goat-boy; The Revised New Syllabus ofGc:orge Gtles Our Great Tutor. It is the wiiole event as Dave Ellison put campaign's them "Black on White" the story of a boy conceived by the automatic computer of the West Campus of it. . was a perfectly plain white posterNew Tammany University and .ra~s~d on the campus go.at farm. After This enthusiasm-generating magic hung on campus walls with a "Naked discovering his humanity, George J010S the college and ulumat~ly becomes ~rows from envisioningan event that 'slf' " in the middle of the blank president, or Grand Tutor of the campus. Throu~~out the narrative lay.c;rs of 1s an entire year in the future, page: ~ix .more posters fo~o~ed,the work, Barth's satire is turned on the absurdltles of <;ontemporary htgher knowing nothing about the latest cul.mmaung 10 the seventh wh1ch was education. "great American novel," where to a full listing of the authors, dates and · Lost in the Funhouse (1968), a collection ?f "Fictions for Pr~nt, Tape, and begin blowing thirteen grand, or. places surrounded by an elaborately-Line Voice,'' and Chimera, winner of the National Book Award m 1973, are as ~hat Kurr Vonnegut's phone number designed black border. The progres­intriguing as Giles, the Goat-Boy. These three h!ive brought t~ the author, IS. sion from empty to full represents the and to all of his other works, much popular acclaim (and financial success). ~~ The emotion~filled impact ofthe title· creative process of a writer. The In speaking of his writing, Ba~th .has affirmed: . ofSLF chairman hit Doug K.t:eitzburg posters become increasingly filled as My objective has been to asszmtlate...the twentzeth century aspects ofmy last Aptilwheq he Pecallle the chosen ·a writer begins with a blank page and medium, to·invent some myself, and... to preserve t~e t!PPeal...ofsuspense, one. · The ftrst few weeks were fllls it wid] his words. ofstory, with which I've been in love since the begtnmng. exciting as. he·c_hose a .committe~ of Another unique aspect of organizingBarth has returned to that beginning: he is now a professor of English at ·,five members to ponder the posstble the Sophomore Literary Festival i$· John Hopkins, and continues to dee~en the co~plexity of his objective with ·course with him qf that stiU. out-of­.that there are no set schedules, no · his latest novel, Letters. The book 1s a cvllecuon of the real, forged, and · focus Match week so far away in the deadlines,·. no guidelines, no restrict~ • mislaid letters of seven· fictional correspondents, several of whom are future. · ing the forces except the allotted ·characters from his earlier works. The CQmmi~tee invaded the library · budget. .. . . .... "Used-upness," obviously, is no problem for John Barttbuck Wood and began to read contemporary "Waiting is the worst part," Ellison novel after cont~mpoxary ~ovel, says characte.r~.ing the months pre-They searched for tliat certain mod~ ceding the fes~al. An important.(continued from previous page) pation in the festival itself, promi~es etn-dax•.· ..scho1a;rl}r scrib...e that coulq idea to remember in the building of .to provide the Notre Dame-Samtoften make reality seem strange and make the1r Fesuvtil spectal. ·Personal such an event is that ''things areMary's community with a rare ~dterrifying. education shines as · one of the going to go wrong." There will beinsightful glimpse .at both the arnstA dominant theme in many of domin~t advarl.fages>.()f being in-' disappointmentS, cancellations, outand his work.simic's poems is his attempt to volved in the Committee~ The ·you've got to. keep that magic ofBorn in 1947 in Sussex, England,''decipher reality'' as Zora Dervnja members .tt~sfOt:'l)l, th~mselyes into enthusiasm alive. The last minuteDavid Hare received his education atdescribes inPoet and Critic. The task literary experts thr9ug~out the technicalities keep the gamble going.Cambridge Univ~rsity before plu~­of poems, Simic seems to feel, is spring and early summer, ~am.ining Ellison laughs,.. ''A week before the.ging headfirst mto the dramaticanalo~ous to the solving of riddles. essays, perl1Sing poemsrscrutinizing festival Jt seems like there is neversubculture of London's Portable The­But S1mic has a problem with control, stories late into the rught. Doug going t_o be a festival but then theatre. Although his first attempt atDervnja says, because he tries to be .. Kreitzburg could pe found in LaFor~ pieces· just fall togetht:t/' Frustra-.writing and direction resulted m antoth "the one who asks and the one tune in the wee morning hoUrs boring tion is another element that may set •.unsuccessful collaboration entitledwho answers, within the context of through····.·.·· !he··· gro·w··.·.··.ing ..•moun···.t~i!!.· o.f in as the SLF week passes by. ·. The .Inside Out this proved of invaluablethe same poem." It is Simic's belief modertr literature. ·He says~ ··We fact that· you've spent the last yearex~erience to the budding youngthat life is a puzzle which deludes us thou~ht we bad joined ?te pook·of~ bringing some of the greatest literarywnter. His next play,. ~lag (197~),not because 1t is an endless series of t~e-~tgh~ c~ubY /Readi!lg 40d •te· talents to Notre>Dame and trying to!earned him both the crmcal acclrumclues to a riddle. In Simic's poetry, · vtew10g, the tnembers .als<? con~~ted stir intereSt in these once-in-a-life~and the literary awards necessary tothen, he albdes to the truth and hints launch his whirlwind dramatic .·. ·~~~ii;;~!:lat~ :£lciotf!:f:r!!:d: ··· ~!;~:&~~r~!T;ie:nC:np~ic!~~e;r~; ·.at metaphysical answers, but his career.poems more often resemble just one who wotlldn't, ..on who •:E:Y ·ha<lp't universicy_ turns out to see the ditna:gMuch of the political consciousnessmore clue to the riddle of life. ••· read ·ari<! sh4tdd; .. Suggestions are _tJfy<?ur ~oru;. Ellison compared i~ to .and rebelliousness of the 1960's, the welcome butrhe ultimate decision on "livtng 1n New York and never gomgLuann Duesterberg rime in which David Hare "came to which 4U.ttho~ ·~·~•·.. invited remains to see the StanteofUberty that otherbe," has been boldly captured by this I with the five member c,ommittee. people travel miles tosee," This isauthor in his characters and dia-. This i$ .•a f;'f!~tiv~ ru.p $trictly py $; ~pie of the neatrSighted syn·David Hare lo~ues. -whether it be the under­students-. to bring. stars of literary 'drome in which people don't takeREADING . MARCH lOth lymg critique of capitalism in How culture who. woul<l intf!rest students :advantage of the magnificent oppor~ · 8:00PM WASHINGTON HALL Brophy Made God, his feminist like themselves, to shirte in the tW1ities at'their ftngettips.. PlaguedWORKSHOP. TUESDAY, stance in Slag,. or his unabashed .shadow of the DOme. . by the disease, ~ople <ion't realizeMARCH 11 depiction of the degradation and .. The committee tries to teach<.a whattbey are mtSS10g; But every1:OOPM LIBRARY LOUNGE destructiveness ofthe rock 'n' roll eta balance betWeen the temptation to N.D.· student has the opportunityin Teeth 'n' Smiles, David Hare'sEn~lish playwright and director .·get big~name author:s so more people next week to benefit from. .theplays are always imbued with a harshDavtd Hare is one of the more will attend and the desire to pursue t:ommi~ee's contributions to the·.··· sense of urgent protest and ferventspectacular and controversial ~ntries authors whom the committee mem~ Festival as well as from the authors'·satire of the imperfect society aroundin next week's Sophomore Literary bets themselves t ,ought would be contributions ro literatw·e. us.Festival (March 9-15). Author of athe particularly intere::.dng to N.P. stu•' Fr?m a list of name~ of prospectiveHare's plays have been described asplay Teeth 'n' Smiles,. curre?tl">: in a~nts, The Committee. al$o has to try c:hawmen on an English Department·'disturbed, unsettled, and purpose­production at O'Laughltn Aud1tonum to find a theme to tie all the speakers· desk to a list of names of authors onfully vulgar,'' and to a large extentby the ND-SMC Theater Group, ~~re ·together. ''This year the unity is everycampus wall, the Sophomore.these claims are valid. David Harets considered by many drama c~i~ics founa in dismantling the silence/' Literary Festival is an education for to be one of the most promismg does not mind shocking or offending Kreitzburg said. ''In a technological -those who attend the lectures buthis audience as long as he succeedscontemporary writers. His appear­world like ours, there ·are !W!ilY espeCially for those who create it. Asin evoking from them a measure ofance at the final performance of .absences created by that need to be. Ellison stated, "It i$ uuly a creative Teet.l; 'n' Smiles on Saturday, March emotional and intellectual ~:.tt· ~ ~f~~:v~~~~1b~~~·J~;$~~; •. ;!ii!ifn':eit~f atl1ount of heart ·.8th as well as his scheduled partici-. tion. Mike r.. · ~ ..  

~---~ ----~ 
• 
The Observer Wednesday, March 5, 1980-page 8 
LONDON (AP) -Steel workers ative _government aimed at ther, an ISTC nation officer, steward who had been fired. curbing union power.
tear up their union cards. Auto said of the expelled men. "Out! Out! Out!" the wor­
In recent weeks, workers at the shouted
wcorkers hurl clods of dirt at a Sheerness men were kers at Derek "Red
British shop steward. Welsh miners Britain's few privately owned cheered on by pot-banging Robbo'' Robinson, accused bysteel companies have refused to wives who said they were fed
re1ect a sympathy strike with a management of continuous dis­
brother union. strike in sympathy with their up with strikes. Many shops, ruption. Some at the mass The thread of union solidari­union brothers who walked out resteurants and bars in Sheer­meeting threw fruit and dirt.
• of nationalized British Steel ness displayed posters saying
t}', which wove organized labor Others waved placards saying,votce a dominant force in postwar "We don't want you back" and
Corp. plants on jan. 2. "Pickets not served here." Some 430 workers at the
Britian, seems to be unravel­Unions, what are they? "We are voting for our jobs, not 
ing. Canadian-owned Sheerness They're just a handful of blas­you.''
Steel Co. on the Thames estu­ted people in London messingWeighung loyalties between ary were expelled from their things up," said 35-year-old When their union asked
strong 
union and family in a harsh union, the Iron and Steel South Wales coal miners to
crane driver Tony Hicks, one of
economic climate, workers are strike in sympathy with steel­
Trades Confederation, for cros­the expelled Sheerness men.
starting to defy strike calls if sing picket lines set up by workers because of BSC plans
''The unions have outlive their 
. they feel stoppage might en­striking BSC men. Some replied to shut down coal-fuled plants
usefulness. I know they had a
danger their jobs. miners voted
by tearing up their union cards place once, but now they're full in the area, the 
strike call by an overwhelming
dislike The grassroots rebellion is and handing them to the pic­of power crazy people who can't 
aimed at the leadership of kets. do anything else." margin of 22,000 to 4,000. Britain's 12 million organized That is not a step taken At state-owned British Ley­Thatcher, whose Tories rose 
workers -sometimes referred to lightly in alnd where the closed land, 12,000 workers at a car to power on a wave of anti­as the men who really run shop is the norm. "These men assembly plant near Birming­union sentiment in the election Britain -and coincides with cannot join any other union -ham voted last wek to reject a last May 3, hailed these devel­


for striking 
legislation from Prime Minister they are blacked by the whole union strike call to force rein­opments as "a ,..triumph for 
Margaret Thatcher's Conserv-trade movement." Sandy Fea-statement of a Communist shop common sense.'' 
RONAL·D·..··-..REAGAN FOR PRESIDENT 
Where Reagan Stands .•. The Reagan Record of Achievement .• ; 
Ronald Reagan has been consistently forthright Ronald Reagan has a record of outstanding in addressing the issues. accomplishment as a chief executive unmatched by any other candidate. In eight years as Governor of
* Inflation. Reagan supports a ceiling on Fed­California-which would be the eighth largest indus­eral spending, a crackdown on wasteful pro-. 
trial nation in the world if it were an independentgrams and regulation, and significant incentive tax country-Ronald Reagan proved what better govern­cuts to increase economic productivity. 
ment can do.
* Foreign Policy. American military strength * Fiscal Responsibility When Ronald Rea­is vital to world peace. Ronald Reagan believes 
gan took office, California had a substantialthat this requires an increase in defense spending and deficit and faced bankruptcy. When Ronald Reaganpreparedness, strengthening our allies and our allian­left office, California had a $500 million surplus.
ces, and a recognition that American weakness is an 
r 

invitation to crises like those in Afghanistan and Iran. * Welfare Reform. When Reagan was . 
elected-,"Colifornia's welfcne program was un-·.vu 
; Right to Life. Almost alone among can_­manqgeable, expensive and plagued by fraud. In eightdidates for President, Ronald Reagan has fre~ years, Ronald Reagan significantly cut the cost and quently stated his belief that abortion involves the 
overhead of the welfare system, saving millions of taking of a human life. Reagan supports amending taxpayer dollars. At the same time, grants to the 
the Constitution to restore to the states their histori­
neediest recipients increased by 43%. 
cal right to legislate in this area. 
* Taxes. Governor Reagan was responsible for
* Federal Regulation of Collegiate Ath· tax credits and rebates which gave California 
letics. Ronald Reagan is opposed to unneces­voters $5.7 billion in tax relief. In 1973, he pioneered sary bureaucratic interference in this as in other areas the now-popular tax reform movement by sponsoring of American life, and has confidence that students, Proposition One, a forerunner of the successful Pro­administrators, faculty and alumni can reach fair, position Thirteen. responsible judgments that will best promote men's 
* Leadership Ability. Ronald Reagan ac-
and women's athletic programs. • complished these· and other objectives with a
* The Draft. Ronald Regan has opposed legislature dominated by the other party. In a heavily 
peacetime registration, the draft, and placing Democratic state, Ronald Reagan was twice elected women in combat positions. to the highest office with huge majorities. 
The 1980 election is critical. We cannot accept continued inflation, erosion of our dollar, weakening of our defenses and decline in our leadership throughout the world. We cannot afford air?·~less drifting from crisis to crisis. 
Only Ronald Reagan has the clear thinking and proven experience to lead this country in the 1980s. 
LET'S MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN. RONALD REAGAN FOR PRESIDENT. 
Reagan for President-U.S. senator Paul Laxalt, Chairman; Bay Buchanan, Treas. A cop~ of our report filed with and available for purchase from Federal Election Commission, Washington, D.C. 20463 
The Observer Wedn~y, March 5, 1980-page''9 

' 
i. 
!' 

(AP) -Ayatollah Ruhollah Kho­
rot ini yesterday overruled Iran­
ia·1 militants holding American 
hostages inside the U.S. Em­
bassy in Tehran, consenting to 
a meeting between the approxi­
mately 50 captives and a U.N. 
commission investigating the 
regime of the deposed shah, 
President Abolhassan Bani-
Sadr said. 
The militants said earlier they 
would not let the five-member 
panel see the hostages, who 
began their fifth IJlonth in 
captivity yesterday. 
The militants have followed Khomeini's directives in the past. A spokesman for them, contacted by telephone after . the council meeting, said they 
had not been informed of 
Khomeini's decision and de­
dined further comment. · Bani-Sadr, speakin~ to repor­
ters after a counctl meeting 
Monday night, said Khomeini 
had been contacted and had 
Panel to see hostages 


K.hotneini overrules militants 
~iven jurisdict~on to th~ _Revolu--Deparlr?ent denies taere'!lllfa§ a 
tlonary Council. Smlimg and confident, he told reporters the council had decided the meet­ing should take place. 
Tehran observers had said 
earlier that the panel members might leave Iran as early as today if they were not allowed to see the hostages. 
In Washington, American 
U.N. Ambassador Donald McHenry reiterated the Carter administration's cautious posi-
Week long siege continues 
BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) ­
The siege at the guerrilla­occupied Dominican Embassy ended its first week yesterday with negotiation efforts stalled and signs growin~ that authori­. ties were prepanng for a long 
standoff. 
On the northern outskirts of 
the city, another guerrilla gang 
stased a bloodless raid on a 
polttical party headquarters, 
fleeing before police arrived. 
As the stalemate continued at 
the embassy, the Vatican dis­
patched a veteran diplomat, . 
Monsignor Angelo Pio, to Bo­
g_ota on an unexplained mis­
siOn. 
Pio, who is papal nuncio in 
Buenos Aires, Argentinar_.de­
nied he would be serving as a 
mediator in the crisis, but said 
INTERNATIONAL CAREER? 

A representative will be on the campus 
WEDNESDAY MARCH 12, 1980 
to discuss qualifications for advanced study at 
AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL 
and job opportunities in the field of 
.INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT 
Interviews may be scheduled at. 
PLACEMENT OFFICE MAIN BLDG.
;: . 
.I ' 
AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT 
Thunderbird Campus Glendale, Arizona 85306 
he was told by the Vatican to await further orders. The papal nuncio to Colom­bia, Monsignor Angelo Acervi, 
•is ; among the two dozen men still being held hostage by some 30 leftist guerrillas at the Dominican Republic's mission. The hostages, seized last Wed­nesday, also include U.S. Am­bassador Diego C. Asencio and almost 20 other foreign dip­lomats. . 
The guerrillas freed 23 of their captives, including all 15 women, in three groups last Thursday, Friday and Sunday. 
The terrorists -members of the leftist April 19 movement ­demand $50 million in cash, free.c\QJ;D. fsJJ 311 jailed \r;ftist~. they say are political prisoners, worldwide publication ofa man­ifesto and safe passage out of the country for themselves. 


c

aucuses 

tO meet 

All Mock Convention dele­gates must meet in their desig­nated state caucus rooms at 6 
p.m. tonight. Delegates will receive their credentials at this time. Delegates without ere­dentials will not be allowed into the convention. For more information call your state chairman. All delegates fDUSt be in Stepan Center by 7 P,.m. 
tion on the Iranian standoff, saying it should not be judged on the basis of any particular statement from the Iranians. He told reporters the "see­
nario had bt·en basically on track."· 
In another development, Iran­ian Foreign Minister Sadegh Ghotbzadeh rejected a request by the Iranian prosecutot-gen­eral that Victor Tomseh, one of three U.S. diplomats in custody at the Foreign Ministry in Tehran, be turned over to the revolutionary courts for ques­tioning. 
Documents found by the mili­tants at the embassy allegedly show that Tomseh, 38, embassy political officer, had a connec­tion with Forghan, an anti-cleri­cal terrorist group that claimed responsibility for a half-dozen assassinations after Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's clergy­dominated revolutionaries took powe'r last .year. The State 
connection. · 
Tehran Ra...:io said the mili­tants told the Foreign Ministry they woulo J.llow a v1sit by U.N. 

team to the entire group of 
hostages only as part of a 
three-stage plan. 
First, the militants would pre­
sent the panel with documents 
proving some hostages were 
spies. Reportedly five hostages 
were involved. 
The Commission could then 
question them as witnesses. 
If the commission, in its report 
to the United Nations, "man­ages to convey the will of the brave and oppressed nation of Iran" and to "convince" the world body of U.S. crimes in Iran and wrongdoing by the deposed Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, "then a meeting with all the hostages to inquire into . their health and conditions will 
be possible." 
At a two-hour meeting Mon­
day night, Bani-Sadr and four 
othcer Revolutionary Council 
members told militant spokes­
men this plan was not accept­
able because Iranian authoriues 
already had promised the U.N. 
comm'i.ssion That it would be 
abk to meet with all the 
hostages, the official Paris 
news agency reported. 



VERNOR HAROLD **************** 




STASSEN 
********************** FOR PRESIDENT 
GOVERNOR-OF MINNESOTA DIRECTOR OF FOREIGN OPERATIONS UNDER 
PRE_SIDENT EISENHOWE ASST. CHIEF OF STAFF TO ADM. HALSEY PRESIDENT OF UNIV.OF PENNSYLVANIA PRESIDENT OF AMERICAN BAPTIST SIGNER OF U.N. CHARTER CONVENTION 
,I 

JOIN ND STUDENTS FOR STASSEN CALL 1475 
..................... 
1980 BUSINESS & 
D.P. GRADUATES 
LOOK TO THE 80's ...LOOK TO CASTLE 

AM Castle, a respected leader in the metal industry will be visiting your college campus on: 
MARCH 12, 1980 

Our representative will be discussing career oppor­tunities in the following fields: 
• 
Management 

• 
Computer Science 

• 
Marketing & Development 



Locations we will be recruiting for are in Franklin Park, IL, Rockford, IL, Kansas City, MO, Davenport, lA, & Milwaukee, WI. 
Castle Metals looks forward to meeting seniors who 
•ill 
be graduating this year and talking about a goal 

•'ve 
worked so hard to achieve. Please contact your 1-..;ement Office for further details on our visit to your 


college campus. If unable to attend please send your resume to: 
Equal Opportunity Employer MIF 



The Observer-Sports "\'frdnesday, March 5, 1980 -page 10 

Molarity 




Doonesbury 

I1JN6 13NfXJ6H 70 6H05T 5CitEN 
AIITHOOZEP HMJR'3 ANIJ M1< 7WITYt1NI1i!l!IOI?IZEP, INCL/JIJfN6 lHRJZ Qll&lVIS. AlSO, I /(/1/S TH/3 B4CK.·IJP 6HOST CW8CJ!H a: IJ4N 



The Daily Crossword 
© 1980 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
by Michael Molinelli 




by Garry Trudeau 



)C. 

ACROSS  25  Napoleon  44  Came down  10  Seldom  
1  Narrow  defeated  heavily  11  Lumber  
aperture  the Austri·  45  Hog or show  12  Raison d'­ 
5  Used for  ans here  46  Macho  13  Exploit 
grinding  26  Part of  47  Recoil  21  Observe  
10  Was obli·  the eye  50  Hudson·s  23  Byrnes of  
gated to  29  Humanity  ship  film  
14  Jostle  33  Forward  54  Legumes  25  Brighten up 
15  Light hlue  34  Yield  55  Italian  26  Dromedary  
16  Promissory  35  Diva's tune  city  ,  27  Maureen  
or bank  36  Shopping  57  Ark. neigh­ or John.  
17  Century  area  bor  28  Race  
plant  37  Stooped  58  Stimulate  29  Flightless  
18  S~earer of  38  Concoct  59  Uke some  birds  
the screen  beverages  gems  30  Faux pas  
19  Nucleus  39 Time  60  Museum  31  Drainer  
20  -State  periods  collection  32  Cut  
(Florida)  40  OverthroN  61  Accqm­ 34  Ornamental  
22  Did a farm  41  Baseball  plishes  fruit  
job  item  62  Imitation  37  Disrupts  
24  African  42  Brief stops  gem  41  Sport  
river  in journey  63  Trim  43  Paul- 
Hindenburg  
DOWN 44 Taste


Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
1 Baden·Baden 46 Direction TWIN E. C HE R• L 0 S T 
et al. for remain-RADON.LUXE.OLEA 
2 Remarkable ing onstage A L E R T • A M A N•rw E I R 
thing 47 Potato 3 "Frost­48 Protagonist

PLATOO.COMBI NE
••• HMS TIERCrES 
the punkin" 49 Enthusiasm No"SIAGs REo••• 
4 Hemingway 50 Nazi AVER GAIT TEE~ 
novel . , RudoJ! '" 

PEA ENNUI ANI 
· 5 Where Dewey 51 itinerant 

ERROR iGE.NT TRitt 
won worker

••• PEG WEEKEND'S 
6 Air 52 Meat and8 E S P E A K-M I R­7 Temptation vegetable

LAND IN.ESSENES 
8 Prepare dish

EGOS NAME.SNOBS SLOE EVER.ECLAT 
for action 53 Political SEPS RELY.DEANS 
9 Thought cartoonist 
through 56 -tizzy

J/4/80 
_______,__..,___.,.______,__________.,.•.,, 

Attention ALL JUNIORS!II 
\t1ake your appointmentfor youryearbook portraittoday. 
CALL 3557, orstop by lC LaFortune, off the ballroom. 
THeRE WILL BEA $1.00 SIDING FE:E­

IT ts IMPORTANT THAT ALL JUNIORS MAKE THEIRAPPOINTMENTS IMMEDIATEL\'II PI.EASE DO iT NOW. 
... Mass. 

[continued from page 1 ] 
He also said that Kennedy's plan to bypass the comapign for southern presidential pri­maries next Tuesday raises questions as to whether the senator could be effective as the Democratic nominee. But Kennedy said last night that he does plan to mount a campaign for the Floriday pri­mary next Tuesday. 
With 68 percent of Massa­chusetts' precincts reporting, the Democratic contest stood: 
Kennedy 373,489 or 65 per­
cent. 
Carter 165,923 or 29 percent. 
California Gov. Edmund G. 
19,739 or 4 per­cent. 
The rest were uncommited. 
On the Republican side, the numbers read: 
Anderson 71 ,499 or 31 per­cent. Bush 69,864 or 31 percent. Reagan 65,071 or 29 percent. 
Tennessee Sen. Howard Baker 10,902 or 5 percent. ~ Five other candidates had scattered support. 
The Republican candidates would spla Massachusetts' 42 convention votes in proportion to their showing last night. 
Carter led Kenn<:_dy in Ver­mont by a 3-to-1 margin in partial returns. That was purely a preference vote, bind­10g no delegates. 
The returns from Vermont stood this way with 94 per­cent of the 265 towns report­10g 10 the Democratic pri­mary· 
Carter 24,S96 or 75 percent. 
Kennedy 8,441 or 25 pen:ent. 
In Vermont s Republican pri­
mary, the same towns report­ed: 
Anderson 17,0¥6 or 31 percent 
Reagan 17,016 or 31 percent. 
Bush 12,298 or 22 percent. 
Baker 6,956 or 13 percent. 
Three other entries were far behind them. 
... AP 

[continued from page 12] 
weeks ago, jumped from ~. 13
1 

to No. 7 with 746 po10ts. Maryland, No. 7 a week ago, was next with 722 points while Notre Dame and Ohio State rounded out the Top 10. 
The Irish, ranked 14th last 
week when they upset DePaul, 
collected 594 points in edging
the Buckeyes for the No. 9 slot 
by eight points. 
Georgetown made the big­gest move in this week's poll, jumping from No. 20 to No. 11. Brigham Young nipped St. John's, N.Y., 10 ma10taining the No. 12 position. Duke was 14th followed by North Caro­lina, Missouri, Weber State, Arizona State, Iona and Pur­due. 
Last week the Second 10 was Missouri, Brigham Young, Indiana, Notre Dame, Arizona State, Weber State, Clemson, Purdue, North Carolina State and Georgetown. 
Duke, ending a one-week absence from the poll, and Iona, making its first appear­ance this season, are the newcomers to this week's poll. They replace Clemson and North Carolina State, who both suffered defeats in last week's Atlantic Coast Conference tour­nament. 
All 20 teams in the poll will compete in the NCAA tourna­ment. 
W4&1dll

= w 
The_Observer-SportsBoard rWednesday, M~ch 5,1980 -page 11· 
~ 
w ~pep ;qaz ­
~ 
i 
I 


Basketball 
AP All-America 

NEW YORK (AP)-The As­sociated Press 1979-1980 Divi­sion I college basketball All­America team: 
First Team 

Joe Barry Carroll, 7-1, senior Purdue; Albert King, 6-6, jun­ior, Maryland; Mark Aguirre, 6-7, sophomore, DePaul; Dar­rell Griffith, 6-4, senior, Louis­ville; Kyle Macy, 6-3, senior, Kentucky.
Second Team· 

Mike Gminski, 6-11, senior, 
Duke; Dor Collins, 6-6, senior, 
Washington State; Michael 
Brooks, 6-7, senior. La Salle; 
Reggie Cdrter, 6-3, senior, St. 
John's; Ray Blume, 6-4, junior, 
Oregon State. 
Third Team 

Herb Williams, 6-10, junior, 
Ohio State; John Stroud, 6-7, 
senior, Mississippi; Lewis 
Lloyd. 6-6, junior, Drake; Ro­
lando Blackman, 6-6, junior, 
[continued from page 12] 
risen. "This is step one. 
Kansas State; Sam Worthen, 6-5, senior, Marquette. 
Honorable Mention 
Andrew Toney, Southwest­ern Louisiana; Craig Shelton, Georgetown; John Duren, Georgetown; Jeff Ruland, lona; Roosevelt Bouie, Syracuse; Louis Orr, Syracuse; Ronnie Valentine, Old Dominion; Boo Bowers, American U.; Mike Perry, Richmond; Corny Thompson, Connecticut; Ron Perry, Holy Cross; Earl Belcher St. Bonaventure; Rufus Harris, Maine; Kevin .McHale, Mln­sesota; Steve Johnson, Oregon State; Ralph Sampson, Virginia Sam Bowie, Kentucky; Larry Smith, Alcorn State; Steve Stepanovich, Missourl; Rickey 
• Brown, Mississippi State; Orlando Woolridge, Notre Dame. 
Rudy Woods, Texas A&M; Jay Vincent, Michigan State; Mike 0' Koren, North Carolina; Durand Macklin, LSU; De­Wayne Scales, LSU; Ethan Martin, LSU; Hawkeye Whit­ney, North Carolina State; Sid­ney Green, Nevada-las Vegas; 
James Tillman, Eastern Ken­tucky; Kiki Vandeweghe, UCLA Gene Banks, Duke; Terry Cum­mings, DePaul; Sam Clancy, 
Pitt;-Curtis Berry, Missouri; Jack Moore, Nebraska; Reggie Johnson, Tennessee; Kurt Nimphius, Arizona State; Dan­ny Binge, BYU; Darwin Cook, 
Portland; Ron Cornelius, Pep­perdlne; Rod Foster, UCLA; Kimberly Belton, Stanford; Michael Wiley, Long Beach State; Jim McCloskey, Loyola of Los Angeles; Wally Rank, San Jose State; Don Carfino, Southern Cal. 
Kevin Ransey, Ohio State; Darnell Valentine, Kansas; Lar­ry Drew, Missouri; Calvin Gar­rett, Oral Roberts; Earnie Hill, Oklahoma City; Carl Nicks, Indiana State; Billy Williams, Clemson; Tony Murphy, South­ern; Klenny Cunningham, Western Michigan; Mike Woodson, Indiana; Jeff Lamp, Virginia; Terry Teagle, Baylor; lsiah Thomas, Indiana; Kevin Boyle, Iowa; Buck Williams, Maryland; AI Wood, North Carolina. 
. . . Center ring 
a correlation · berween that fact and Notre 
Dame's·failure to usually advance beyond those 
preliminary rounds.

We have to win 
__( ­

--\.•• • • Carroll -~~ 
; the first team, averaged 27
[continued from page 12] 
1 points, 8 rebounds and 3 assists 
leading dunk-shot artists, in fact the chief operator of Louis­ville's so-called "Doctors of 1 Dunk.'' One of his specialties · is a reverse dunk, which he puts home with as much fervor and ferocity as anyone in the land. 
Griffith averaged 22 points, 5 rebounds and 3 assists a game for the Metro Conference champions. 
The 6-3 Macy has been]oe B. Hall's "coach on the floor" at Kentucky ever since he helped the Wildcats win the NCAA championship in 1978. Among Macy' s most supreme qualities is his ability to thrive in pressure situations. 
Macy, one of the nation's top foul shooters with a 92 per cent average, averaged 16 points and 5 assists a game this year . 
Aguirre was the main reason for DePaul's success ·this sea­son, helping the Blue Demons build a 26-game winning streak and keeping them atop the polls for a.good part·~&e Y~T· a game. 
The 6-7 star was ·named" the best power forward in America by some observers, to which De Paul Coach Ray Meyer adds: ''He may be the best all-around 

ballplayer  ever  to  come  to  
DePaul."  
Aguirre, only sophomore  on  

King, a junior, finally blos­somed into the greatness long predicted for him, leading Mary land to the regular-season At­lantic Coast Conference champ­'I ionship with a year that in­cluded a 22-point, 7-rebound average. 
He was the cat~lyst for a Maryland team that was not expected to finish any higher than fifth in the ACC this year. 



Basketball tix 
•


remam available 
Tickets for Notre Dame's sec­ond round game in the Midwest Regional of the NCCA basket­ball tournament go on sale to the general public today at the Gate 10 box office at the Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter. Tickets for the game, which the Irish will play Satur­day afternoon against the win­ner of Thursday's Missouri-San 
Jose State game, are priced at $7, $8, and $9. 
Saturday before we even think about Houston.'' 
And he says · again that he needs the students to, in his words, ''get it done." Ticket manager Busick claims that students have been notoriously lax in purchasing tickets for first and second round N.C.A.A. games. If you subscribe to Digger's philosophy, there may be 
In any case, there is a realistic possibility that Notre Dame will advance to Houston and even to the finals, played this year in Market Square Arena. That's in Indianapolis and it's not over spring break. A hell of a lot of people will want tickets to that game ... 
But first, reminds Digger, there's step one. 


Classifieds 
Student Chooses: $120 shares house 
or $90 for furnished room with bath. $75 deposit. Call 289-0103 nights or 
Morrissey Loan Fund 

Notices 
weekends. N0 Student loans $20-$200. Due in one month. One percent interest. Basement LaFortune 11:30-12:30 M-F. ­

Wanted 
Last day for May grads to apply is March 14 
Need ride to Toledo or Columbus, OH March 6 or 7. Call Maria 6925.
Tuesday Is ND-SMC Day at Royal Valley Ski Resort! 2 tor 1 lift tickets 
Wanted: N.eed ride to Champaign­3-10 pm, also 2for 17-10 pm M-Tu-Th. 
Urbana on March 7th. Mark 1764.
2chairlifts. CLOSEST SKI AREA TO 
Need ride to Champaign-Urbana onCAMPUS. Buchanan, Michigan. 
March 7th. Mark 1764. Typing in home-Close to ND. Best 
Need ride to Ohio U. area or Cincinnatiti:na to call--mornings or evenings 
March 14. Please call Chris 2103.
after 6:30 272-4895. Neea naers to osu Columbus, Ohio
Typing Plus. Term papers, theses, area this weekend. Call Jon..at 1188.
dissertations. Light editing, ghost writing. Literary search, bibliogra­
Need riders to N.J. leaving Fri. Marchpnies, genealogies. Job resume 
7. Call John 233-6370.
service. Sliding rate scale based on lead time. Special discounts on full 
• 1 need six graduation tickets. Call Dick
contracts for theses and dissgrtations. Aardvark Automatic Solutions/P.O. 
~~~68~1. ------~~--· 
Box 1204/413624/219-289-6753. 
Need one-way ride for two to Daytona for Spring Break. Can leave at 12:30
Spring Braak-Last chance to gat hotel on Thurs. 27th. Call 6778.
reservations In Ft. Lauderdale and 
Daytona Drive N'Save to Ft. Lauder­---------------­
1 need a ride to Philidslphia over
dale only $109 or Daytona only $99. 
spring break. Willing to share ga$ andLimited space. For mora information, driving. 1am able to leave Wednesday
call Ken 283,1387. 
March 26 or later.· Please call Joe at 6726. 
Need ride to/from Long Island, N.Y.

lost &Found 
for spring break. Please call Tony Lost: Turquoise ring with a silver 3079. 
band. Call Anne 1274. ---------------­
If you are worried about survival, start Lost: Liscense plate New Jersey 
thinking health and wealth. LIGHT­FORCE and your life force work682-KMT. Please return. Sentimental together to produce the best nutrition
value. Call 7631. 
which brings you cash/bonus every Lost: Ruby ring with gold band. month. Keep your own hours. Be Reward. Call Paul at 7336. your own boss. Send brief resume to; 
Pat Bailey, 514 S. Edward, Mt. Found: Orange glove. Call 6866 to Prospect, Illinois, 60056. Or call claim. LIGHTFORCE 312-870-1146 for fur-• 
ther information. 
Lost: glasses in black case possibly in ---------------­Eng. Aud., SOH, or Bookstore? If Need ride to Philadelphia for break. found, call Mike 1609. Call Kathy 1260. 
Found: Sliver Digital watch in ACC, 2 
weeks ago. Call Mike 1609. 


For Sale 
Hey--I can't see the real you if you DOME-,greenhouse, 16' diameter,
don't get my glasses! ·May have lost $200. Price includes help withthem at 621 Napoleon Friday--call construction. Call 7213 days, 232-0634
3047. 
evenings. At DePaul game, one Pierre Cardin ---------------­
Flash: Photographic e4uipment forglass case. Call 8785. 
sale--fantastic bargains! Cameras, lenses. Call 232-4129.

ForReQt 
Personals
MOVING OFF CAMPUS NEXT YEAR 3-6 Bedroom houses for rent. Call Tim Eliza, What's warm, cuddly, and ... 283-8682. siah I .oaintui? 
Stage Door John ie. Ready for th& weekend? I'm still looking for incartation. Any clw3s? 16 score and 7 
Hey Dink! . Happy. happy day! 1cherish you, K ... forever, a day and a moment. 
T. 

To chuck Wood and all the gang, Thank you all very much . I love you all. 
Mike 

Scholastic Writers Mtg. All board members required to aUend 6:00 Wad. 
"Make a wish·' come true. Listen to Tom Chapin this Saturday at the SMC Little Theatre. 
Bill P. I am madly in love with you. Can fie arrange a meeting? You're my idol 
Ohio Delegates: Meet Wednesday at 6:oo pm--115 O'Shag. Jan 
Pam, Tim, Mark, John: 
I'd like to taka this opportunl!f to thank each of you for "baing there ' in Dayton. I really appreciats it. 
Panama Rod 

Hey Juniors-Your ticket to a gre~;t Senior yaar-Nunnelley, Leary, Leitz­Inger, & Jennings. 
Snow Bunny: 
Congratulations and praise on your step up in life. Teach those Demers journalism! 
Tutors needed: 
1. 
High school student, Algebra­Geometry II. 

2. 
Student preparing for GED test. Contact Volunteer Service 7308. 


Bath,Congratulations on becoming Sports Edltorf · Patsy 
Organizational mee\jng of Notre Dame-South Bend Bicycle race Thurs­day, March 6 Room 2-D 8:00 pm· LaFortune. For more information, call 234-0467. . . 
Andi, Just because you knew, -you didn't have to "conceal" as much as. you did! !That was my loss! Unforgettablal 
Need ride to DC area for spring break. Will Pay. John 3084. 
.. 

All classif!ed a~s must be_received by 5:00p.m., two days prior to the tssue mwhtch the ad IS run. The Observer office will accept class!fieds Monday throuQh F~iday,_ 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classtfteds must be pre-patd, etther m person or through the mail. 
ANARFP and Paz, VOTE:Miss you.this semester at computes. 
NUNNELLEYThomas 
LEARY LEITZINGER

Happy Birthday Janet Love, the TV:~nackers. 
• JENNINGS 
Admiree:Tom Jensen: This is your personal. It remains theHappy Birthday Cutle!l 

LADY's choice.
from anot so sacret,admlrer 

An Admirer Gin, Happy Birthday to the cutest, most 
Peasant Dress-understanding, and most lovable girl 
1 know why you had a good time around. I'm glad you're mine. 
Friday. Does it go both ways? Love, Andy 
Englishman 
Dear Barb B. at Carroll, Just thought I'd check up on you. 

Dear Billy Pollock, 
Meet me in St. Louis? · 
How's it going? When are you coming down again? An Tostal, maybe? See3rd Year Business Major naactad. 

ya! .

Once a month, 3 months to .explain budget operating statement. 
Marnaret Contact Volunteer Services 7308 
Ryan. My deepest apologies for letting youAttention Hockey Fans: Experience down Saturday. Can you ever forgive

Alumni's ''Killin' of Dillon" Pep Rally 
me? Any time you want breakfast, ~~~~~~~~~~~~---·-~ find an I. D. and meet m'e in 'E'Iine ~t 8:00.
Flanner Reisidents vote Rob Margaret
"SKATES" Cagnon for UMOC. 
-------~-------­
Margaret:Juniors-You cheapskate!

How many people will partake In 
Ryan

"tuale action" In California? Bring In P.S. how 'bout if I was 5'5'?
your $50 deposit for 1980 Senior trip. Due March 10-14. 
Kim, Why the heavy abuse?!! ConclusionTo the girl In the graan swimsuit 

--jumping isn't fair--or is .It?

Sunday afternoon whose friend didn't Doctor "G"
need a bathingcap-l'd really like to meat you. Respond through personals 
Timothy Terrence-how I can gat in touch, ok... 

You have beautilul blue eyes sir.
Busy Babysitter 
Don't worry! Love always, Your "Lah:dee-dah"

Senior Class presents another Pulaski Post Party, Friday, March 7th, 9:00-? ---------·~­
Ryan VerBerKmoes-.:,:' ,:

25 cent beers all night. 1606 W. 
Some people have ne11er bear~ of aWestern Ave. 

telephone. That's the last ,time 11ever make dinner for you! (Or IS1hat (WhatCongratulate !Jle new Slounge Queen, 

you were trying to brirtg (lbGUt?)·

Mom, and her Court, DenOon and 
DiDi. ----I'll never forgive you-­
HELP!!! Need lift to tincoln to see

The Great Book$--the great minds. 
Meet faculty and students at the gam~. Will trade for P!ac~ to stdy. or $$$. Call Jack 1949. :;;>: .. .
General Program of Liberal Studies, Monday, March 10. 7:30 pm, Grace --------~---­-Pit. . 
Rick Irwin (with an 'e'), · , Mucho thanks for nde hom a and mucHsimo apQJogies 'for the abusP

Don't miss Tom Chapin In concert It : wh;;t ya kidding me?).
SM C on March 811!. 
Love, Crybabies Color Basketball pictures available. 
Patricia CurtinAll games, including DePaul and 

Congrats on acce.ptaoce! 11<new you

Maryland thrillers. All sizes. Cheap. 
could do it!

Call 8932. 
BW Oh no 1! It's Mr. Bill for UMOC. 
Patti You can't mean Mr. Bill Pollock? 
Happy Wednesday! 

NBBd ride for two to Detroit-Ann 
Happy Birt,hday

Al11or area Friday March 7. Please 
Ann Radde!

call Carol 3848. 
1 
I ' 
1 
! 
jl 
! 

.. -~~--------­• --= 

VY 

• Wednesday, March 5, 1980 -page 12 
-
r 
1 
At Chicago Circle 

Carroll heads All-America


Fencers prepare for Great Lakes 
selections

by Paul Mullaney also serves as a qualification ''Our women really don't match Assistant Sports Editor time for the following week­up with a team like Wayne NEW YORK (AP) -Once an end's national championship State," claims DeCicco. "Gina 
awkward high school player in After finishing the 1980 reg­competition to be held at Penn Farkashazy and Hanne Denver, ) oe Barry Carroll took ular fencing season with a 19-1 State. Skattebol are practically un­his time developing-at Purdue. record, coach Mike DeCicco's Defending NCAA champion beatable on the collegiate wo­But once he did, the sky was Irish are preparing for Satur­Andy Bonk (35-4 on the year) men's level. But we're very the limit for the giant they call 
day's Great Lakes Champion­and freshman Marc DeJong competitive. We've got some '' Rocky Mountain High. '' ships at Illinois-Chicago C~rcle. (17-7) will represent the Insh m excellent fencers, but they're '' I can see him becoming an foil, while captain Chris Lyons not the type that are inter­outstanding pro player, " says
Notre Dame is coming off 

(37-6) and Greg Armi (35-8) will nationally renowned." 
his coach, Lee Rose. "I believe
weekend victories over Mich­

fence in the sabre. Senior epee After the Great Lakes compe­
he'll make a good living at it.
igan-Dearborn (19-8) and 

captain Thorn Cullum (22-13) tition, the National Intercol­
He's big and strong."
Washington of St. Louis (21-6). 

and freshman teammate Rich legiate Women's Fencing As­
Rose's admiration is shared by 
Last ThursdaYthe Irish suffered 

Daly {23-5) will also take part in sociation (AIWFA) Qualifica­
many and reflected in Carroll's
their first setback in a little over 

the action. tion Round will take place. 
selection to the Associated
five dears, as Wayne State 

"Our chances in the Great Freshman Susan Valdiserri (21­
edge DeCicco's squad, 14-13. "Press All-America college bas-. 
Lakes are pretty good if we 13) and sophomore Marcella ketball team for 1979-80.
That put an end to 'Notre 

fence well in each number-two Lansford ( 11-1 0) will join 
The Purdue skyscraper was
Dame's dual meet winning 

position," adds DeCicco. "If Carney and Bathon in Chicago, 
named yesterday to the First
streak of 122 wins --what is 

all of our people can make it to in hopes of qualifying for the T earn by a nationwide panel of
believed ro be the longest string 

the finals, we should have a NIFW A Campionships, to be AP writers along_ with Louis­
n collegiate fencing history. 

good shot at it. Wayne State held at Ohio State the last ville's Darrell Griffith and Kyle
"In a way I guess I'm 

will ~ the favorite , but it they weekend of March. Macy of Kentucky at the guard 
disappointed that the streak is 
loseeither or both of their sabre Irish Items: Over the week­positions and DePaul's Mark
over," says DeCicco, in his 19th 
men for the finals --which is a end the Irish also elected A~uirre and Maryland's Albert 
year as head coach. "But it had 
possibility --then that can 
captains for the 1981 season. Kmg at forwards.
to end sometime. I just hope 
really open things up." Those chosen were Ray Benson Carroll's arrival as a player in 
I 
we can get it together in the 
Notre Dame's 11-2 women's in foil, Greg Armi in sabre, his junior year last season
Great Lakes and the NCAA 
foil team will also partake in the Kevin Tindell in epee and signaled a turn in Purdue's
finals.'' 
Great Lakes, with seniors Susan Valdiserri in women's basketball fortunes, transform-· 
The Irish will send two Dodee Carney (31-8) and Liz foil. ing a 16-11 team from the year ' ~ fencers per weapon to Chicago Bathon {30-10) serving as re­An annual tradition calls for before to 27-7 and a tri-champ­on Sa"turday, as the Great Lakes presentatives. the fenc:ng manager to partake ionship in the elite Big Ten, as 
in the final weekend's competi­well as an NIT berth.
I' 
tion. And this year was no This season, the 7-foot-1 sul­exception. Senior manager len star averaged 22 points and Duane Blaine will go into the 10 a while
[ Despite loss to Notre Dame, rebounds game 
record books as a .500 epee keeping the Botlermakers
I 
fencer. After losing a bout among the nation's leading against Washington, Blaine re­Orlando Woolridge was named teams.I ' DePaulremains atop AP corded a victory against an honorable mention AII­Griffith is one of ~he nation's 
I 
Michigan-Dearborn. Not bad Amen·can yesterday. More sel­(AP) -Ray Meyer claims the stand a good chance of going all for a rookie. ections on page 11. [continued on page 11} monkey is finally off DePaul's the way."back. And that could spell DePaul collected 54 of 59I trouble for any team which first-place votes and 1,173 Ticket sales faces the Blue Demons in the points out of a possible 1,180 in I upcoming Natiunal Collegiate the balloting by a nationwide Athletic Association tourna­panel of sports writers and 
broadcasters. Blue I Meyer and DePaul got rid of Demons were ranked No. 1 in 
I the monkey last Wednesday the final eight weeks of the poll, 
I ment. The Digger : in the center ring 
I never believed in reincarnation until now. It
when their quest for an unde­being selected unanimously six 
took a while, but I've finally decided that Digger 
I feated season was stopped by times. 
' 
Phelps used to be someone else. And I've even
Notre Dame 76-74 in double Frank
Louisville, ranked fourth last 
figured out who he was .... 

~ overtime. 
week, edged Louisiana State for 
Ever hear of P.T. Barnum? You know, the
I "We've relaxed quite a bit 
LaGrotta
the No. 2 position. The circus master who ran around telling everyone
since the loss to Notre Dame,"
~ Meyer said after learning the Cardinals got two first-place he had the greatest show on earth? Well, listen 
votes and received 1,030 points 
Blue Demons had maintained to Digger talk about the· N.C.A.A. tournament ''This is an opportunity for our students to be 
-12 more than the Tigers, who
the No. 1 position in The that he and his team will be starring in a part of the challenge of going after a national
picked up one first-place vote in
Associated Press' final college beginning Saturday ... championship," he said of Saturday's game.
advancing two notches in this
basketball poll for the 1979-80 "It's the greatest show on earth," he And in keeping with his personality, Digger has 
season. week· s poll. proclaimed after yesterday's practice. ''There's it all figured out.
Kentucky collected the final
''The Uoss has taken the nothing more exciting than a tournament game "It's an easy eight or nine hour ride from here 
two first-place votes and 956
monkey oli our backs.'' because it's all or nothing.'.' to Lincoln," he plots in the middle of practice. 
points in slipping from No. 2 to
But he notes the NCAA "There's just no second chance." One almost gets the feeling that these plans are
No. 4, while Oregon State
tournamem is the starr of Shades of man-eating lions, asbestos-tongued as important as the preparation going on behind
moved up one place and took 
fire-eaters and tight rope walkers without safety 
another season for DePaul. him on the court. 
over the No. 5 position with 872
"What we did before makes no nets! "The students can leave early Saturday
points. 
Ok, ok... admittedly .this 48-team tournament
difference now,'' said Meyer, morning and get down there in time for the 3:30 who has guided the Blue Syracuse, ranked third last lacks the death-defymg appeal of an Evil . (CST) ufoff. It's all interstate and there are 
Demon's fortunes the past 38 week but beaten by George­Knieval leap over whatever canyon happens to plenty o ·tickets available.'' get in his way. But Digger hits on one of the
years. "We're ~oing to pia y town in the Big East Con­And he's right about that one. Last night, 
every team in this tournam~nt ference tournament title game, underlying principles of athletics when he talks ticket manager Mike Busick reported that as if our lives depended on It. fell to sixth with 785 points. about each game being do-or-die. "about fifty" had been sold to students. That's We're going to be emotionally Indiana, unranked three fifty out of an allottrnent of 750. Digger frowned 
"It is not another game," he emphasizes, 


ready fo:· every game. And if 

[continued on page 10]
we c~w get by that first one, we 

AP Final Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty teams in the final Associated Press college basketball poll, with first place votes in parenthesis, records, and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17-16-13­14-13-12-11-10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1: 
with fingers pointing and voice raised. ''Every when he heard that one. game in the N.C.A.A.'s is the game." "Every fall, students complain because theyAnd that's what makes each game so can't get rickets to basketball games," he points appealing. I mean, what would you rather out. "Well here's an opportunity to get a goodwatch, the seventh game of the World Series or -seat for a ~reat basketball game that is easily a game between the Braves and the Dodgers within drivmg distance." 
played on a lazy Sunday afternoon in July? It's And fhen he makes his final pitch. And he's the finality of the whole thing that makes people dead serious. watch ... that makes them care. "We need the students," he stresses. "You 
Since I have been at Notre Dame, the saw what they did to DePaul here last basketball team has played in 10 N.C.A.A. Wednesday. Well if we play Missouri on tournament games. I've been to nine of them, Saturday they'll be playing 10 their own back 
l.DePaul (54)  26-1  1,173  11. Georgetown, D.C.24-5 564  missing only the first game of the 1978 playoffs  yard.  Nebraska is B1g 8 country and they'll be  
2.Louisville (2)  28-3  1,030  12. Brigham Young  24-4 485  against Housto~ in Tulsa, Oklahoma.  1 figure  the crowd favorites.  We need the students to  
3.LouisianaSt. (1)  24-5  1,018  13. St.John's, N.Y.  24-4 479  I've spent quite  a  few hours and  a few  more  turn us on.''  .  
4. Kentucky (2)  28-5  956  14. Duke  22-8 450  dollars on  the determination to be there if we  And if you really want to get him mad, tell him  
5. Oregon St.  26-3  872  15. North Carolina  21-7 322  ever "win it all."  you're  saving  your  money  for  Houston  or  
6.Syracuse  25-3  785  16. Missouri  23-5 278  And I don't regret a second or a cent of it.  Indianapolis. 
7 .Indiana  20-7  746  17. Weber State  26-2 240  Every tournament game is like last Wednes·  "Hey,  there  is  no  second  round  without ·  
8. Maryland  23-6  722  18. Arizona State  21-6  156  day's DePaul game only better... more intense ...  winning on Saturday,'' he says, his ire visibly 
9. Notre Dame 10. Ohio State  22-5 20-7  594 5861  19. lona 20. Purdue  28-4 18-9  142 120  more important. Why? Because like Digger says, "You lose, you're out."  [continued on page 11]  






