--------~-------~ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------.-----~ 
, , , 'Real World ' -pag~ 6 
VOL. XV, NO. 60 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1980 
Students hold election 
By Earl Rix 
There were no clear winners in the five district Student Senate 
elections held yesterday. As a result, there will be run-offs between 
the top two vote-getters in each district on Thursday. 
The on-campus turnout was44 percent but the off-campus turnout 
was only 2.6 percent according to Tom Koegel, Ombudsman election 
chairman. Only thirty off-campus students voted. 
OBUD director Tom Phillis noted that the turnout was slightly. 
lower than the SO percent turnout usually seen in campus-wide 
elections. "The candidates did very little actual campaigning," said 
P'-lillis. · 
No votes from Villa Angela were counted in the election. "Villa 
Angela's ballot box was not returned within the time limit so all votes 
from there were invalidated" said Phillis. "Villa Angela does not have 
a )-Board chairman so the hall president got the ballot box" said 
Phillis. · 
When informed that no Villa Angela votes were counted, hall 
resident Beth Holloway said,"I don't think I like it too much." 
Although election chairman Totn Koegel said, "The margin of 
v•ctory means that it was virtually impossible that it affected results in 
that district," Villa Angela has 34 residents and the difference 
between second and third places in District 4 was only 1S votes. 
Villa Angela president Theresa Ross said,"He did not give us any 
times or deadlines or anything. He didn't in the past either. In past 
ek·ctions he did give us extensions on time because most of our 
people aren't home till 7:00 or 8:00 p.m." 
"I missed connections with the girl who was running the election 
with me. When I finally met her and got the box I went to the OBUD 
offfice and brought it in. This was about 10:15 p.m." Ross said. 
"I was really shocked when he (Phillis) said they were invalid. When 
I told him that there were only 11 votes, he said it didn't matter 
.wyway. He said that if there we;·e 1 '5 it would make a difference. He 
then flippcJ through the ballots and said that they were spread out 
ht·twet·n tht• canJidates anyway. I feel really bad but I would have felt 
(continued on pa!(e J) 
. ':•. 
Marty Smith prepares tofinirh hispotteryproject in ceramics. (Photo by joel Annabel) 
Parks in danger 


Environmentalistsprotest strip mines 
By George Tibbets , 
Associated Press Wrrter 
The view from this overlook at the southern tip ofHryceCanyon National Park is spectacular: peach and white sandstone spires in the park and often much of southern Utah and the Grand Canyon Plateau, vistas hundreds of miles distant. 
In the next century, if de­velopers have their way, the view may include something else -a strip mine less than four miles away. 
Coal fields near Alton, Utah, would feed the proposed Allen­Warner Valley Energy System. 
But enviromentalists say the system would be a disaster for two national parks -Bryce and Zion-and for water-poor ran.;:h­ers in Kane County, south of Bryce. 
The $4 billion AWV system calls for two plants generating 2,500 megawatts of electricity, 90 percent of it bound for 

Congress partnership 

Reagan visits the Hill 
WASHINCiTON (AP)­President-elect Reagan went looking for friends yesterday on Capitol Hill and came away with a pleJge of cooperation from House and Senate leaders of both parties. 
Visting the Capitol for the first time since his election, Reagan expressed his desire for cooper­ation between the White House and Congress and told leaders of the House and Senate. 
He told leaders that one of his initial legislative priorities will be a 30 percent individual tax cut over the next three years. 
Travelling to the Capitol on a cloudy and wintry morning, Reagan moved through a series of meetings with congressional leaders, spoke briefly with repor­ters during breaks in the sessions and steadfastly refused to com­ment on reports about the makeup of his administration. 
He found congressional lead­ers in general agreement with his proposal to place a high priority on a tax cut after his Jan. 20 inauguration. 
·Republican Howard Baker, who will become the Senate Majority Leader in January, and Democrat Robert Byrd, the current leader, agreed that a tax cut should be one of the first pieces of business for the new Congress. 
After criss-crossing the Capitol with Vice President-elect George Bush to make his various courtesy calls, Reagan said he believes the country needs the tax cut he promised during his campaign. 
"This still holds true as what I believe we can accomplish ... ," he said. "This would be one of the early things we would want to do." 
Indicating he would seek better relations with Congress than President Carter had during his four years in office, Reagan promised the lawmakers that "we're not going to just throw up surprises" to Capitol Hill. 
"We aren't going to accom­plish anything unless we co­operate with the;! House and the Senate," Reagan said following amicable meetings with every major figure in both Houses of Congress. 
Afterwartls, House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill, D/Mass., said he promised Reagan that he would withhold criticism of the new president for six months "so we ca• turn the economy around and make the country work." 
Baker said Reagan intends to forge a new partnership with Congress as soon as he is inaugurated. 
"It is clear to me he under-· stands the nature of the two­party system and the relationship 
(continued on page 4) 
California. Two slurry lines with a combined length of 256 miles would pipe coal to the 2,000­megawatt Harry Allen plant northeast of Las Vegas and the 500-megawatt Warner Valley plant near St. George, Utah. 
Project participants are Southern California Edison, Pacific Gas & Electric, Nevada Power Co. and the City of St. George. Utah International Inc. would mine the coal. 
Development vs. scenery is becoming a familiar battle in southern Utah, where not so long ago a new county road was a major project. 
WEDNESDAY.=::::::::::::::: 
:·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.

·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·FOCUS 
That changed when devel­opers began to eye two of the region's few resources -abun­dant minerals and even more abundant space. 
Soon to begin construction is the $5 billion, 3,000-megawatt Intermountain Power Project near LynndyL The plant, also to send most of its power to California, was· first planned for Salt Wash but was moved 120 miles west after Interior Secre­tary Cecil Andrus said it would harm air at Capitol ReefNational Park, 10 miles away. 
The $3.5 billion Kaiparowits 
(continued on page 4) 
West Bank 
violence 
ip.volves 
soldiers, 

students 

Ramallah, Occupied West 
Bank (AP) -Israeli soldiers fired • 
on bands of rock-throwing Arab 
youngsters yesterday, wounding 
10 in the melees here and in 
Bethlehem. The violence on the 
occupied West Bank was the 
worst in five months and was 
triggered by an earlier shooting 
incident and the closure of an 
Arab university. 

At the Jabaliya refugee camp 
50 miles a~ay in the occupied· 
Gaza• Strip, an unidentified 
gunman walked into the office of 
acting Mayor Mohammed 
Hamed Abu Ouarda yesterday 
morning and shot him dead while 
several members of the muni­
cipal council looked on in shock, 
a military spokesman said. It was 
the second assassination in less 
than 24 hours ofan Arab who was 
friendly to the Israelis. 

Israeli Prime Minister 
Menachem Begin said in New 
York that he was cutting a U.S. 
visit short by one day and would 
return to Israel because of a 
challenge to his government in 
the Knesset, Israel's Parliament, 
over economic issues. There was 
no indication the West Bank 
trouble was a factor in his return. 
Three boys and three girls 
were wounded here by the troops 
who fired to halt a stone­
throwing riot in the main square 
ofthe town, which is just north of 
Bethlehem. 

While some Palestinians en­
couraged the demonstrations, a 
woman administrator at a girls 
school said she had tried to stop 
the protest. 

"I told them it is dangerous, and I didn't want them to get shot," she said."At this age, they can't realize the dangers, they just want to express their feelings." 
The ages of the victims were not known, alth<>ugh one was reported to be · 14-year-old Haniya Baramki, the daughter of the acting president of Bir Zeit University. 
The Rev. AuJeh Rantissi, an Anglican clergyman who is acting mayor, said he would not try to stop the demonstrations. 
"The Israelis think if they escalate their iron-fist policy they can drive ollr people out," he said. 
Four students were wounded at Bethlehem. 
The army accused the students of stockpiling stones to ambush the troops, who were en route to the walled campus to invcstig;tte a noisy Palestinian nationalist demonstration. 
The spokesman said "hun­dreds" ofstudents had attacked a jeep carrying three soldiers. He said warning shots failed to disperse the mob. 

.. 

News Brie/§ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
~ 

A oav as you e::o orogramwill be part 
of an a11-ou~ operat1on sche'cfuled""y the nation's largest public television station. The station, faced with a decline in federal support, plans on selling its programs through cassettes, cable, video discs and over-the-air subscriptions. The financial plan is part ofa major structural change at New York's WNET, one of public TV's major producing stations.JohnJay Iselin, president of the Channel 13 station, said, "Now we believe we must forcefully move toward a more realistic model for funding, and that is a market-based model." -AP 
A Korean Airliner caue::ht fire on 
landing with 217 people aboard yesterdi(y, and airport authorities said scores of passengers were believed dead. The Boeing 7 4 7 was arriving atSeoul's Kimpo International Airport from Anchorage, Alaska, and caught fire as it touched down on the runway, witnesses said. They said the fire was brought under control in about 40 minutes but nearly destroyed the aircraft. Korean Airlines Flight 15 originated in Los Angeles, airport officials said. It landed here at about 5:15p.m. (ES1) yesterday. It was the first major accident involving the South Korean flag carrier, which flies many international routes connecting to such points as New York, Los Angeles, Paris and Bahrain. 
AP 

Biology orofessorMortonS. Fuchs has been named chairman orthe Notre Dame Department.ofMicrobiology by Prof. Timothy O'Meara, provost. His appointment is effective Sept. 1, 1981, upon the retirement of the current chairman, Prof. Morris Pollard. Pollard will continue as director of Lobund Laboratory, the University's pioneering institute for germfree animal research, which he has headed since 1961. In making the announcement, O'Meara noted that the University plans to develop molecular biology as a new focus in the microbiology department in order to stay abreast of develop­ments in modern biology. The new chairman's undergraduate training was in microbiology at Michigan State University, where he also earned a master's degree in zoology and a doctorate in biochemistry. He also studied genetics for three years at the University ofWisconsin-Madison. Since joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1966, Fuchs' research was focused on studies of insect hormones. -The Observer 
Truant officersare tracking down parents, not students in Fort Wayne. The city is cracking down on parents whose children are frequently absent from their classrooms. Officials say the arrest of a mother of three, whose children were out of school up to a month at a time, is the first case of applying a more serious penalty than a visit by the school attendance officer. Margaret Geiger, 48, was jailed briefly in what juvenile and Fort'Wayne Community School authorities termed the first arrest ofits kind in the city. The arrest marked a change in philosophy of both school and juvenile court authorities toward truancy problems. Charged with three felony warrants of child neglect, the woman was first held on $2,250 bond, then released on her own recognizance. -AP 
Iran and Iraq claimed four days of 
bloody fighting had given each control of the Iranian border town of Susangerd and each claimed the other suffered heavy casualties. Iran also reported fierce fighting at its besieged refining city, Abadan. Iran claimed 850 Iraqis were killed in three days of fighting in Susangerd, Iraq said 609 Iranians died m the same period. Iran said one of its aircraft crashed in Susangerd and claimed an Iraqi helicopter was shot down by .mti-aircraft fire as it tried to attack the city. An Iraqi communique -;aid Iraqi forces "tightened the noose" around defenders of Susangerd, 35 miles northwest of the oil-rich Khuzistan provincial capital Ahwaz. Iran, which first claimed to have regained control of Susangerd after a helicopter gunship and tank attack said its army regulars and Islamic revolutionary guards were mopping up Iraqi resistance near the city. -AP 
Sunny and coldtodaywithhighsinthelowto mid 40s. Fair tonight and on Thursday. Lows tonight in the upper 20s to low 30s. Highs Thursday near 50. -AP 
Wednesday, November 19, 1980-page 2 

Inside Wedneiday 
Time for standingup 
Some memorabilia requiring reflection: Twelve years ago, at the height of the Vietnam War, the Notre Dame chapter of Students for a 
Pam 
Democratic Society (SDS) staged a three-day sit-in against Dow Chemical and CIA recruiters. The 
Degnan
recruiters were on campus in conjunction with the 
News Editor
Placement Bureau. The students, banding together, blocked the II•••••••••.. 

outside door of the Placement Office, literally holding a CIA interviewer hostage for more than three hours. They read, spoke and chanted about the immorality of a war that was not theirs. Campus leaders argued with administrators over the legitimacy ofa Catholic university condoning war by permitting organizations like Dow (a leading manufacturer ofnapalm) and the CIA to recruit on campus. 
And so an internal campus war raged on between student activists and administrators. Editorials submitted by students and faculty flooded the pages of The Observer and praised the initiative taken by the SDS. For three days, the war continued and eventually the recruiters retreated from campus. A bit of an exaggeration, perhaps, but, nonetheless, the students tried, took a stand, and succeeded. 
Times are definitely changing, for there are no "causes" on whichstudents are willing to take a stand. No one can dispute that this country is plagued by many problems-energy, unemployment, inflation­some of which seem irrev­ocable. But the simple fact / is that there is no one cause that studentr are willing to undertake. 
Forget national problems for a minute. Take a look at Notre Dame's problems-everything from off-campus crime to the Board of Trustees "no-go" with the student senate, to the zero social opportunities on campus. Could these be causes? Or are they just minor irritations that one must endure as a Notre Dame student? 
Don't get me wrong. Notre Dame, in the '60s, was comprised ofa different breed. Students were faced with the moral questions of a war that they did not understand, and they unified. They made the administration, fellow students and even themselves aware of the fact that they were willing to assume responsibility and take a stand on an issue. 
So where does that leave Notre Dame in the '80s? From present indications, it appears that students are content to accept the status quo here. Senior business majors are willing to get up at4:30 
a.m. to wait in line at the Placement Bureau in order to secure an interview. Off-campus students are content to live in fear. Students are willing to 
f-'fhe_Qbseryer_ 
Rock 'n' Roll Night 
Design Am1tant . .. Scoop "Sweet Jane" Sullivan Design Am:rtants .. .. Kevin "Twist and 
Shout" Korowlcki Patty "The Great Pretender" Fox Julie "Boz" Joyce Day Technician .... Bruce " King Tut" Oakley Night Technician ...... Mike "One Tin Soldier'" Jans News Editor . .. Pam"the Boss" Degnan CopyEdr~or ... MaryFran"AHardDay's Night" Callahan Sports Copy Edr~or ... ..... Beth "Linda Ronstadt" Huffman Typr1t ........ Marilyn "Brick House" Broderick Systems Technician ...... Bob Huffman ND Day Editor.... Molly "Dreamboat Annie" Noland Ad Design ...... .Jeanne, Nobody else Photographer .... .Joel "Billy" Annabel 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obaerver ls8ubllshed by the students of Notre ame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing Tilt Oburvtr, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 
46556. 

The Obaerver Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
P" Help others while you help YOURSELF... ~ to a wide selection of hand crafted articles from the THIRD WORLD 

ST. FRANCIS SHOPPE 
Non Profit Organization 
Behind Fatima -Opposite St. Mary's 10-6 Mon. thru Sat. Phone 233-7467 
~ ..J 

"LttJ REPOSSESSIONS FOR SALE:~ 
C1l  Min Bid:  
1978 Ford Ranger w/ Blade Lift  $4,500  
1978 Chevrolet Blazer  5,000  
1977 Dodge Von-Psg  3,500  
1977 Chevrolet Monte Carlo  2,250  
1977 Chrysler Cordoba  3,000  
Contact:  
R.G. Reed  

University of Notre Dame Credit Union 
~ 283-4454 ...J 
.. 

let the Board ofTrustees resurrect the ineffective Campus Life Council-despite a referendum vote for the creation of a student senate. 
The days of standing up for a cause are gone at Notre Dame. Yes, Notre Dame will continue to grow, to expand. The University will continue to intensify its business and engineering programs. And students-they will be content to live in apathy at an institution that is slowly becoming more conservative in policy, in thought and in nature. 




Observer Notes_----. 
As a public s~rvice, The Observer publishes short press releases, better known as blurbs, submitted by campus and local organizations. All blurbs must be turned in no later than 1 
p.m. of the afternoon prior to publication, and they must be typed, double-spaced, or they will not be accepted. Blurbs, unfor­tunately, are not guaranteed publication, and are run only on a space available, priority system as designated by the news editors. We remind that The Observer alone should not be relied upon to publicize events-to ensure some mention of your event, submit a separate entry to the On Campus Today section of the paper. 

The Observer Wednesday, November 19, 1980 -page 3 

Stone JlabJ are lifted to the top f/oorJ of the almoJt completed Stepan ChemiJtry Building. (Photo by joel Annabel) 

White collar crime siphons megabucks 
by Erleen Murphy 

Addressing white-collar crime, Arthur Del Negro, director of the Economic Crime Project, spoke last night to a small but enthusiastic group of Saint Mary's Students-on the prob­lems sentencing white-collar criminals. 
Del Negro and his office aid prosecutors in the investigation and prosecution of economic (white-collar) crimes. 
Del Negro defined economic crime as "non-violent illegal acts which siphon off funds through simple or sophisticated means for personal use." 
"Economic crimes account for an estimated $44 billion in losses annually-more than ten times the estimated cost of street crime," he said. more than 10 
The Juggler 
seeks copy 
Ry Davrd Sarph/e Staff Reporter 

The juggler, Notre Dame's lit­erary magazine, is seeking crea­tive writing from the under­graduate student body. 
Any literature-poetry, fiction, critical essays-will be reviewed for publication, accor­ding to editor Larry Siems. "Any students interested in seeing their writing published should definitely consider The Juggler," Siems said. 
He noted that the publication has traditionally been dominated by fictional literature and poetry, but that this year more emphasis will be placed on the essay section. 
Interested students must sub­mit their pieces by Tuesday, November 25. The first edition will be published in late January or early February, according to Siems. 
times the estimated annual cost of street crime." He said the crimes are difficult 
to  control  and  frustrating  to  
punish.  
Del Negro cited the  case  of  

Jerry Schneider, the UCLA senior who masterminded a million dollar embezzlement scheme from Pacific Telephone. Schneider manipulated compu­ter inventories. As punishment for his crime Schneider served only two days in jail. 
Throughout the lectu~e. Negro expressed his opinions. 
"The criminal justice system is failing, but it is not just the fault of the justice system; it is a societal problem," he said. 
He stressed the enforcement problems, which he perceived as inherent. Judges must balance the rights of the defendants with the rights of the victim and society, according to Negro. 
Del Negro expressed conclu-. ded by saying future expertise must be developed in this specialized area to increase the investigation and just punish­ment of white-collar crime. 

--R1VER-C1TY-RECORo~l
INorthern Indiana's Largest Selection 1 1of Albums 8c Tapes and lowest Pricesf 1 
1I 

I 
I I I 

----------21Z:..~J.2 ____~_:,;. __. 
Why pay more at.the malls? 








$1 ~~~~~::~fFI ~ 
• 
Nov. 30, 1980 
Open until 10:00 every night. 
h

•ND/SMC checks cashed up to $20,00 over purchase amount. • Record crates available. 
River Citv Records 
5097o-lf.s. 31 North , 3 miles from campu$ next to AI'sSupermarket 

President -elect builds cabinet 
WASHINGTON (AP)-A list ofpossible appointees to the Reagan Cabinet has been nar­rowed to three to five candidates for each post and is being flown to Washington for President­elect Ronald Reagan's consider­ation, transition omcials said yesterday. 
One of the first names to emerge as a leading contender for secretary of defense was Sen. John Tower, R/Texas, who is "all but certain" to get the post, according to one congressional source. 
Reagan told reporters he didn't know whether he would pick the conservative Texan, who is in line to take over as chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee if he re­mains in Congress after the Republicans take control of the upper house inJanuary. 
But the source, who requested anonymity, said Tower "has been made a promise" by the incoming administration and has been quietly informing his staff. 
Edwin Meese III, director of the Reagan transition team and one oftwo men already named to key jobs on the new White House staff, said a panel of the president-elect's closest advisers had completed work Monday evening in Los Angeles on a list of possible Cabinet appointees and was dispatching a copy to Washington for Reagan's con­sideration. 
"So we'll be looking at it later in the week," Meese said. 
The list, said to include three to five names for each Cabinet post, was drawn up by a group of long-time Reagan friends and advisers, including at least two former Cabinet secretaries and several wealthy Western busi­nessmen expected to serve Reagan in an unofficial "kit~ chen" cabinet. 
Some of those who attended the meeting in Los Angeles at the downtown law offices of Reagan's personal attorney, William French Smith, are believed to be Cabinet candi­dates themselves. 
Prof. Brown displays work 
David Brown, painter and Professor ofArt from Saint Cloud State University, will give a slide presentation of his painting Thursday, Nov. 20 at 7:30p.m. in the Architecture Auditorium. 
1 
... Election 

{continuedfrom page 1) · . 
worse it they had an effect on the election." Ross said. 
OBUD director Tim Phillis said, "The ballot boxes an: suppossed to be returned as soon as possible after 6:30 p.m. We usually giv<: them leeway until 7:30p.m. We judged that the box was out too long so all votes from there were invalidated." 
When asked if the Villa Angela votes could have affected the election Phillis said ,"No." When asked if he counted the votes he said,"Not in any official capacity." 
The District 1 run-off will be betweenJames O'Niell and Bob Helle who garnered 33 and 21 percent of the vote respectively. The District 2 Senate Seat will be contested by Frank Tighe wh< · polled 43 percent and Hans Hoerdemann who polled 30 percent. 
Patrick Borchers and Carl Carney will run-off the District 3 Senate Seat. Borchers recieved 28 percent ofthe vote and Carney recieved 20 percent. 
The Senate Seat for District 4 will be run-off between Jeffery Newby who polled 34 percent and Thomas Weithman who polled 24 percent. 
The District 5 (off-campus) Senate seat will be run off between Kathleen Kucaba who received 13 votes and Mitch Feikes who received 11 votes. 
T~~~~~.._..-~~~~~~~~~~· 
tI  COME HEAR AND SEE The Incomparable  : !  
t  "DIGGER" PHELPS  ' t  
t  at the  t  
t  FARLEY FOOTBALL  t  
t  PRE-GAME PEP RALLV  t  
t t t!  6:15 p.m. in front of Farley Game Time-8:00p.m. FARLEY vs. B-P  &' &' &!  
,  TONIGHT!  '  


~----------------J 
*~7'9~~ * 
·,· 
Smith has been mentioned for attorney general, and former Treasury Secretary William E. Simon could return to the 
Cabinet in the same position he held under President Gerald R Ford. Simon also has been mentioned for secretary of state or energy. 
William Casey, Reagan's cam­paign chairman and a senior member of the group that drew 
up the names, has often been listed by Reagan watchers as one 
of those in line for  a  Cabinet  
post.  
Tower  denied  a  published  

report he had been offered the Pentagon, but Anne Armstrong, a Texan who shares the chair­manship of the transition exec­utive committee with Casey, said the Texas senator "is certainly under consideration." 
I 

-1( 
-=-~-......
II SO·DtDitY*~.,.. U~!*
I 

FRIDAY•118¥. 21, 1:00 P.l 
1 

A'~DAI'/£A.~C.
1 


·fhe Observer Wednesday, November 19, 1980-page 4 
It 
... Focus 

BP FOOTBALL IS #1 -To Be Confirmed TONIGHT AT 8:00 CARTIER FIELD 
~OME AND WATCH BP CRUSH FARLEY 


JU5f I()~T -me vocroR oR.OE~ .. 

$2.50 Pitchers with purchase of any dinner! 
COME IN AND JOIN US FOR DINNER AT LEE'S 
•. 
(continued from page 1) 

Power Project was to have mined coal for California utilities on the Kaiparowits Plateau, about 45 miles easi: of the Alton fields. It was scrapped in 1976, but a new mine has'peen proposed for the plateau-~gain to provide coal for California and for export to Japan. 
The Bureau o[Land Manage­ment recently issued its final envirombntal impact statement on the 'AWV project, recom­mending against the Warner Valley plant on grounds its smoke would damage air quality and reduce visibility at Zion National Park, about 35 miles northeast. , 
The Environmental Protec-' 
tion Agency earlier made a 
similar judgment and separately 
recommended. that the federal 
Office df Surfa~e Mining declare 
the Alton fields unsuitable for 
mining ; because mines would 
raise rioise levels at Bryce 
Canyonand spoil the view. 

Late t;his year or in early 1981, 
the interior sec'retary is to rule on 
the A WV's permit application. 

"We will pursue the applica­
tion un:til we get the permit," 
says St. !George utilities director 
Roger McArthur. "In a nutshell, , we're g~ing t0 pursue until we conquer." But victory might not come easily. 
Ranchers near the mine fear 

the slurry lin~s· 3 billion-gallon 
annual : thirst · will drain their 
wells. 

"Water is pretty scarce," says Caroline Lippincott, a rancher in Johnson Canyon near the Alton fields. ·~When I drive through Las Vegas ~nd see. all those lights, I think, ·:we're going to export all of Kane Collnty's water for that?" i: 
A WV. backers say there's a 
criticafneed for power. Never­
theless; the staffofthe California 
Public jUtilities !Commission has 
recommended the state's utili­
ties no~ participate in theWarner 
Valley plant, saying the Allen plant's output alone would meet the state's needs. One staff recommended scrapping Warner Valley and fueling the Allen facility with central Utah coal brought in by rail. 
McArthur says that won't help St. George, whose 14,000 pop­ulation is expected to double every decade through the end of the century. He says Warner Valley is essential because the city has only interim agreements to buy power from other util­ities. 
John Ferrell, Utah Interna­tional's Alton project manager, disputes EPA claims that blasting and mining could boost noise levels at Bryce Canyon 32 times and reduce visibility up to 25 percent. He says EPA tests were poorly conducted and do not duplicate actual operations. 

Most of the mine would be out ofview from Bryce, he says, with mining visible from Y ovimpa Point for only about five years, beginning in 2014, after which the land would be reclaimed. 
But Bryce Superintendent Bob Benton doubts that a park he calls "one of the United States' diamonds" can co--exist with mining. 
Dunng the n01se tests, "We had complaints or statements from visitors the length of the park," Benton says. 
"You can see a pickup truck down in the Alton area from Yovimpa Point," he says. "What is a bulldozer going to look like?" 



ACS plans smoke-out 
The American Cancer Society is offering an invitation to all members of the ND/SMC Com­munity to attend a "rally" against smoking. The purpose of the cally is to stimulate smokers to give up cigarettes. This effort will be a step against cancer: a disease which 'can be beaten! The dem­onstration rally will be held on Thursday, Nov. 20 from4-5 p.m. in the downtown mall area of 
(continued from page 1) 
between the two branches of government," Baker said. 
Reagan said he plans regular meetings with both Democratic and Republican leaders from both houses. 
Congressional critics of Pres­ident Carter often complained that they had too little access and consultation with the White House. 
Unlike most new presidents, Reagan has had little experience on Capitol Hill. Like Carter, 


SUGAR -OWL 



Way Down Yonder in New Orleans 
Rooms and a LIMITED SUPPLV of Sugar BoWl football tickets available. Stand in line for your student tickets. 
GO IRISH! YOU'RE #1 
Robertson Travel Post, Inc. 
2732 Cahaba Road 
Mountain Brook, Ala. 35253 

Phone: (205) 879-0461 
So~th Bend. Everyone is encour­aged to think up anti-smoking slogans, make posters :.nd demonstrate in an orderly fashion. 
Among the events planned are a ritual proclamation by the mayor of South Bend and the opportunity to "dump your ashes!" Buttons, posters, stickers and pamphlets will be distributed and cups ofafternoon coffee may ~e availab1e. 

... Reagan 
Reagan was a governor, but held 
no other public office. 
In addition to meetings with Baker, House Republican Leader John Rhodes, House Speaker O'Neill, and Senate Majority Leader Byrd, Reagan also spoke with a dozen Repub­lican members of the House and Senate. 
Baker, who briefly competed with Reagan for the Republican presidential nomination, said the president-elect agreed to make all of his Cabinet and major sub­cabinet appointments known long before the 97th Congress convenes Jan. 5. 
Reagan's chief of staff, Edwin Meese III, told reporters earlier that the president-elect is on schedule in his search for a Cabinet and will review specific names within the next ten days. 
Reagan's arrival in Washing­ton on Monday night coincided with a series ofreports about the shape of the new administration and its programs, but Reagan refused to discuss the reports or name any of those under consi-. deration for high administration offices. 
• Sen. John J'ower, R/Texas, who figures prominently in re­ports as a possible secretary of defense, was present during Reagan's meeting with Senate Republican leaders. 
As he left his government­owned residence one-half block from the White House to head for the Capitol yesterday mor­ning, Reagan was asked whether Tower would head the Pentagon, but . he waved off the 
question and said, "I don't know." 
: During his four-day stay in Washington, Reagan is sched­uled to meet with Carter and other officials of the outgoing administration. 
On Friday, Reagan will travel to his secluded ranch near Santa Barbara for the Thanksgiving holidays. 


The Observer Wednesday, November 19, 1980-page 5 
GO BIG RED 



FOR GREAT SERVICE 
FROM SOUTH 





4nMES 
SAN FRANCISCO 
DENVER .
Now you can go B1g Red 
four times every day from South Bend-two departures east 

Los ANGELes to New York, with intermediate stops, and two departures west to Los Angeles 
or San Francisco, with intermediate stops. 
Plus you can also make convenient connections to over 15,000 cities and towns nationwide. 
ICrr--··· · l) 
-... , . . . I ...
I

I " --j
-·•ee·-'·-~--e·-L 
NEW YORK 
And wherever you go along our Big Red routes you'll enjoy that famous Trailways torsion-smooth ride and comfortable red carpet service every mile of the trip. 
You'll find Trailways in South Bend at 

· the Michiana Regional Airport on U.S. 20, or for information on routes and rates, just call 232-2577. 
• 
....................~~----------------------------------------------------------------~---­
Wednesday, November 19, 1980-page 6 



Editorials 
Copinguith Notre Dame andthe 'Real Wnid' 
Tim Sullivan 
Each Sunday night/Monday getting a job) evolves into a central 
morning, dozens of "job-throats" 
goal, if not the solitary reason,

crash atop the unmercifully cold 
which motivates them toward 

and unyielding linoleum of the 
graduation and a degree. A Notre

Administration Building's second 
Dame degree is for most the equiv-

floor. Dragging blankets, books, 
alent to material success, se'curity, 

pillows, and hopes behind them, 
and prosperity. The diploma be-

these die-hard Domers sleep fit­
fully in untidy rows before the Placement Bureau door. Uncom­fortably, they awa:t another chance to register for job interviews in the unceasing attempt to secure 
employment in the Real Wor!d. 
While this drive for fiscal in­dependence seems to blur many other benefits of earning a college degree, the requirements for grad­uation force even those money­mongering capitalists among us to confront theology, philosophy, literature, science, and other "im­practical" intellectual areas. The Notre Dame diploma, in the final analysis, produces moderately rounded. educated individuals who can contribute to society. 
But let's look at Notre Dame like it realtv is for a few moments. After 
comes the key to the locked door ofone p~els away the rhetoric_about the employed world, but more

Catholic tradition,. intellectual enlightenment, spiritual wholeness, importantly, to the comfortably academic excellence and athletic employed as well. Practically balance, the omnipresent core speaking, a Notre Dame Degree underneath every facet oftheNotre equals Money. Dame experience is Money. 
And what, really, is wrong with 

For Notre Dame students, the· that? Money, in itself, is not an evil. practical necessity of establishing In addition, the strong desire for an income-producing situation(i.e. material security and comfort, 
1--------------which requires money, is very 
Editor's note: Tim "Scoop" common and understandable. Sullil•an is a senior expecting to However, this need for monetary graduate this May, as well as peace of mind is not exclusive to 
design editor, staff reporter, and our student body. Indeed, money music editor for The Observer. guides every group in contact with This is his first contribution to the du Lac. Though the University's editorials page this year. academic, athletic, and spiritual 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 



heritages all contribute to Notre Dame's uniqueness, they do not control events in our community. Realistically, the primary driving force behind every decision and plan here is the need for monetary survival, if not security. 
crime, and the doctrine of in loco parentis. The -turnouts at such functions have been miserable, as 
well  as  frustrating  for  our  SG  
representatives.  
Students do  care  about these  

issues, but they do not place them 
perbly run reunions, and the award-winning Notre Dame Mag­azine. The administration, not wanting to alienate the contributing alumni -of which many of the Board of Trustees are the biggest -listens attentively to 

Once this is understood, every administrative policy, student attitude, trustee decision, and university event becomes com­prehensible. Viewing Notre Dame as an efficient money-machine may seem like a cynical model for analyzing the f'::>remost American Catholic university, but in practice, it helps explain much about du Lac. 
For example, our Student Government has.for the past three years unsuccessfully attempted to 
soften an administrative ban on kegs on campus. The proposals, all well-written and well-presented, have been processed through the proper channels numerous times, each meeting defeat at higher administrative levels. The reason, high on their list of priorities. Theoretically, the administration can dismiss every student enrolled and still have enough qualified applicants to refill the classrooms in a week. Student opinion, there­fore, doesn't carry much weight. Students, realizing this, aren't will­ing to risk acquiring disciplinary blemishes on their school records, especially if it could possibly mean complete dismissal or the present­ation ofa radical image to prospect­ive future employers. "Why," students reason, "should I risk my $24,000+ education on a trivial issue that I won't be subject to in three years anyway?" This prac­tical logic is difficult to argue against. 
Some students wonder why their opinions on policies, most notably, campus life policies. 
When the present contributing alumni attended Notre Dame, there was an eleven o'clock curfew, drinking of any sort was forbidden, and parietals were unheard ofsince visitation of any sort was banned. The campus rules today are, for the most part, what the students of twenty years ago wanted. Their position as a source of university funds enabled them to institute such changes. In twenty years time, the present graduating classes will be in a similar position, and no doubt parietals, single-sex dorms, and other rules will change. 
Notre Dame is many things to many people. It is, in the final analysis, essentially a good place, 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor .............. Mark Rust Sports Edttor ............. Beth Huffman The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Editorials Editor........... Mike Onufrak Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily Sii11ior Copy Editor ... Mary Fran Callahan Photo Editor.··············· .John Macor 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported . l\r EJ· T J k Business Manager ........... Greg Hedges
Ex"(]CU!tve Hews artor . . . . . om ac man C l'' 1· R dd
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a . ontro ter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1m u majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views News Edrtor · · · · · · · · ·······Pam Degnan Advertising Manager .........•. Mark Ellis of their authors. Column space is available to all members of rhe community, and News Edttor. · · · · · · · · ·······Lynne Daley .Circulation Manager ........ Beth Hackett the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC Executive Editor ...... Margie Brassil Production Manager ....... .John McGrath 
-==~=~---=-~·=~==================
. The Observer===== 
T0 da~===========W=e=d=n=e=sd=a=y=,=N=o=v=e=m=b=e=r=1=9='=1=9=8=0=-=p=a=g=e=7 
Campus 

• 
3:30 p.m. -aero & mechanical engineering sem­inar, "two factor analysis of variants: the many ways to do it," dr. jeffrey green, ball st. u., 356 fitzpatrick. 

• 
3:30 p.m. slide presentation, "formal aspects of movement & meaning in dance & mime," dr. anya peterson royce, ind. u. bloomington, audio-visual theatre cce, sponsor: dept. of soc. & anthropology. 

• 
4:30 p.m. dept. of his-­tory lecture, "dabbling in psychochistory: a look at united states-spanish mutual images from the 1920s to the 1970s," dr. fredrick pike, nd. mem. library lounge. 

• 
7 p.m. -abortion seminar, flanner hall pit, sponsored by right to life. 

• 
7 p.m. -discussion, "is it time to recognize the p.l.o.?" 108 o'shaughnessy hall, sponsored by the american political forum. 

• 
7 p. m -film, "incident at brown's ferry'' hayes--healy auditorium. sponsored by students united for respon­sible energy (sure). 

• 
8 p. m -k ofc meeting, officer nominations, card carrying and paid members invited, k of c hall. 

• 
8 p.m. concert, rnichellethiec & denis weber, piano, snite aud, sponsor: coli. ofarts & letters & depts. ofmodern languages, music, & foreign studies. 

•8 
p.m. -dept. of modern & classical languages lecture, "japan's lost gener­ation: three postwar japanese novelists," van c. gessel, vstg. prof. nd. mem library lounge. 

• 
8 p.m. -philosophy dept. lecture, "linguistic concomitants of revolution­ary change," thomass. kuhn, mem. library aud. 

• 
8 p.m. lecture, "katyn forest massacre: The 40th anniversary of the katyn genocide," hon. {oman pucinski, former chiefinves-­tigator of the congressional committee for the investig­ation & study of the katyn forest massacre, galvin aud, spons: program of soviet & east european studies & polish-american congress. 


Big Brother tix 
AU Big Brothers/Big Sisters who would like tickets to the Air Force game for their Little Sisters and Brothers should call John Pinter at 3218 before Saturday. Tickets may be picked up Saturday, November 22, before 
11:15 a.m. in 109 Keenan. 

Molarity Michael Mo1.iflelli 
H/ ... 4PIE YOU THE
HC:: 5ftJUL.P B£ H£R£' 

YANK££ I'M ROOMING
SOON ... I'~ HOPING H£ 
ISN'T A EoRIN6 CiUY TV 



Peanuts Charles M. Schulz 

ACROSS 29 Dined 
1 lakein 30 Faucet Italy 32 Fruit 5 Ruhrclty 34 Delhi 10 Western dresses 
state: abbr. 36 Greek 14 Sultanate letter 15 Scold 37 Cleaving 16 Reveal tool 17 Transfer 38 Grafting 18 Slow, In Item 

music 39 Ardor 19 Cheese 40 Comedian 20-Khan Conway 21 FOR's dog 41 Coral 22 Actress Island 
Damita 42 Silvery 24 Expanded fish statement 43 Weaken 28 Onewho 44 Track ogles circuit 

The Daily Crossword 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


DISCUSSION AND FILM 
45 Buy-In 11 Communica­a poke tion method 46 Mistress of 12 Period 
Louis XV 13 Muffin 51 Profound 21 Run away 52 -dixit 23 Natives 53 Aged: of; suff. 
abbr. 25 An Ernie 
55 Entrance 26 Sing 57 Ebb 27 Pertaining 59 Box to birth 60 Truncheon 31 Gasp 61 Church law 32 Times of 62 By way of, day: abbr. 
for short 33 King of 63 Extremely Troy 64 Burmese 34 Range 
offical 35 Be sick 65 Auld lang -38 Colonial problem DOWN 39 Turkish 1 Caesar's VIP TV lady 41 Winglike 2 Greek parts letter 42 Foretell: 3 Mistress of Scot. 

louis XV 45 Missing 4 Single 47 Churchill 5 Pastry Downs event 6 Book 48-Dors 
support 49 A Sinclair 7 Biblical 50 Desire mount 54"-Grit" 8 Tlmezone 55 605, to letters Clnna 9 Modernized 56 Bullring language cry 10 Manuscript 58 Humbug! symbols 59 Rds. 


Winter Formal 
. on being a BROTHER, SISTER OR PRIEST
rent your tuxedo from 
in the Church today CENTURY FORMAL WEAR Any Style in Stock 
Farley Hall 
$2500 

Thursday, November 20 Century Formal Wear 
9:30p.m. 1622 Mishawaka Ave. 
sponsored bySouth Bend (287-5938) 
Indiana Campus Renewal Team 

.. 

The Observer Wednesday, November 19, 1980-page 8 

Rozelle testifies on sports violence 
WASHINGTON (AP)-In that vein, Rozelle was to his personal appearance was of the National Basketball Commissioner Pete Rozelle of testify a day after Chicago Bears primarily to answer any ques­Association; Phil W oosnam, the National Football League safety Doug Plank was in the tions the committee members North American Soccer League will tell Congress today there is commissioner's office to appeal a might have. commissioner; Hank Peters of no need for federal legislation to $1,000 fine levied for "spearing" In addition to Rozelle, others the Baltimore Orioles, represen­provide criminal penalties for Tampa Bay tight end Jimmie scheduled to testify include John ting Commissioner Bowie Kuhn players using excessive violence Giles in a nationally televised Ziegler, National Hockey of Major League Baseball, and during a sports event. Oct. 6 Monday night game. League president; Simon P. James Reynolds, representing 
Rozelle heads the list of The NFL commissioner said Gourdine, deputy commissioner the Justice Department. officials from the major sports leagues who will appear before the second hearing of a House crime subcommittee, chaired by Rep. John Conyers Jr., D/Mich., on the bill that would penalize a player, if found guilty of using excessive violence, up to· a $5,000 fine or a year in jail, or both. 
Rozelle's position, as stated in a memorandum to the com­mittee before the first hearing, is that no federal legislation is necessary because the NFL can police itself. · 
...Racing 
(continued from page 10) 

CART, is a big bear ofa man who has been CART's legal counsel since 1979 and now is its exec­utive director. 
Frasco, 41, is a partner in a prestigious Detroit law firm and a formidable man at the ne­gotiating table. 
Dep({ul University, led by CoaLh And he's a man with plans. Ray Mryer and Mark Aguire, were "My first responsibilitY is to ratedsecondin theAPBasketballPoll. build a stable organization in Notre Dame faces DePaul in March. order to conduct and promote a series," Frasco said. 
Chevy Chase Goldie Hawn Charles Grodin 


' 
' 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I I ~ i 
Neil Simon's 
SEEMsi.v<EODTaMEs 
COLUMBIA PICTURES Presents A RAY STARK Production CHEVY CHASE GOLDIE HAWN CHARLES GRODIN IN "NEIL SIMON'S SEEMS LIKE OLD TIMES" A JAY SANDRICH FILM ROBERT GUILLAUME Music by MARVIN HAM LISCH Executive Producer ROGER M. ROTHSTEIN Production Designed by GENE CALLAHAN PG PAROOALGUIDAIICESUGGESTEO<G Drrector of Photography DAVID M. WALSH Written by NEIL SIMON rromRASTAR ~ SOM£MATERIALMAYIIGTIESUIUilEfORCMilDREM Produced by RAY STARK Directed by JAY SANDRICH c•ooocoo..,...,....,,..... _,.,,.. •. ""' ~ 
Coming This Christmas 


The Observer Wednesday, November 19t 1980 -page9 
Growing pains over I 
NDspikers end season 
By Maureen Heraty Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's volleyball team finished its first year in team competition last weekend, playing in the Indiana State Volleyball Championship Tournament. 
The team suffered what is hoped to be the last in a series of growing pains that it has had to endure this season. Valparaiso, Notre Dame's first and only opponent, induced the last measures in defeating the Irish 15-4, 16-14. 
Bats .390 
Brett takes MVP 
NEW YORK (AP)-George Brett, Kansas City's slugging third Jaseman who flirted with the coveted .400 mark in leading the Royals to their first league championship in history, was named yesterday as the Ameri­can League's Most Valuable Player for the 1980 season. 
Brett, whose batting mark was over .400 late in the season, finished the year with a . 390 average-the highest in the major leagues since Boston's Ted Williams batted .406 in 1941. He was a runaway winner, receiving 335 points in balloting by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. 
Brett received 17 first-place votes, nine seconds and two thirds from ·the BBW AA's 28­member panel-two from each league city__;_ in becoming the first Kansas City player ever to win the coveted award. 
Outfielder Reggie Jackson of the New York Yankees, winner of the MVP in 197 3 when he was with Oakland, was a distant second in the balloting this time with 234 points including five first-place votes. 
Relief ace Goose Gossage of the Yankees was third with four first-place ballots and 218 points. Outfielder Willie Wilson of Kansas City collected one first­place vote and 169 points for fourth place. He was followed by first baseman Cecil Cooper ofthe Milwaukee Brewers with 160 points, first baseman Eddie Murray of the Baltimore Orioles with 106 points and catcher Rick Cerone of the Yankees with one first-place vote and 77 points. 
Points were awarded on a 14-9­8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 basis. 
Outfielder Don Baylor of the California Angels, last year's MVP, did not receive a point in this season's balloting. He missed most of the season with injuries. 
Baltimore's Steve Stone, win­ner of the 1980 Cy Young Award as the league's outstanding pitcher, finished ninth in the MVP balloting with 53 points. 
The left/handed hitting Brett, winner of his second American League batting title-he won in 1976witha.333average-hada legitimate shot at becoming baseball's first .400 hitter in 39 years until the final two weeks of the season, when he faltered slightly. 
However, he did produce some other eye-popping figures. 
He tied the major league record for batting average by a third baseman, matching the .390 that the legendary John McGraw hit for Baltimore in 
I 

"We were up against scholar­ship talent. So I guess you~d say we were out-talented (sic);' she explained. ' 
Yet the rookies did have some advantages over the Valparaiso team. Jan Yurgealitis, the tall junior from New York,. com­bined height and skill to intim­idate Valparaiso, in both offense and defense was slightly 'disad­vantaged. 1· 
"We played a good defensive game," Van Slager said. "We attained good momentum in the . 
first game and maintained it 
II 

1899. 
The 27-year-old Brett becaml'! only the 15th player in America~ League history to win both the batting crown and the slugging percentage title in the same year, leading the league with a .664 
1

slugging mark i..· 
He became the first player! since 1950 to average at least one run batted in per game for a player with a minimum of 100 RBI, driving in 118 ruq.s in 11 7 games. Only Cooper, with 122, had more RBI than Bnht. 
The Royals' star also led the league in on-base percentage (.461), finished among the league leaders in seven other offensve categories. 
... Poll 

(continued from page 12} 
Louisville, were 10 points father 
back with 826. 
Oregon State, National Invi­tation Tournament champion Virginia, Ohio State and Notre Dame rounded out the Top 10. The Beavers got one first-place vote· and 731 points. The Cavaliers, who also collected one No.1 vote, had 724 points, seven points ahead of the Buckeyes, who received the other · first­place vote. The Irish edged Missouri for the No. 10 position with 591 points. 
The Tigers headed the second 10 with 580 points. Southeastern Conference power Louisiana State was 12th, followed by North Carolina; Iowa; Texas A&M; Georgetown, D.C.; St. John's, N.Y.; Brigham Young; Syracuse and Arkansas. 
, year's experience-should im­' prove the caliber of next year's women's volleyball team. Now 
that they have sprouted, it should be exciting to watch them grow. 
FREE DEUVERY 
WITHIN CITY UMJTS 
of South Bend orMiahawah 
WITH'IOO" PURCHASE 
Jim Beam 
Bourbon 
Bir 

1.75 Liter 
Meloao Cream Sherry 9 9 SAVE
1 2 50 750ml. • . 
HiramWalkon 
Peppermint J99 
Schnapp• ___ .."~-~ 
KaJolu• 1110 899 Coffee Liqueur ••"'!: 
--~·~·-~ 1099 
Lejon Vermouth s-.o., ..'10:"'-. 111 
Taylor 
SUPER STORES! STOOlHOUU.
................

• te21 ~tt. a...l ""· • ZOO N. Maia St. 
IAJI.. JOP.M..

50VTH KND, UJ..tiOl ELI.KAI:T, ..._.,10 
rn.as... 

• I A.M.· II P.M. IIISHAWAKA.Jl1.7171 ROSI.U.ND, Jf2..IW 
• 1102 Gnapi!IW. • 214 Di:Dt HWJ. N_.. 
throughout the second." 
The team prides itself on its 2­
12 performance in their first 
season. "We at least stopped a 
few more experienced teams 
from competing in the cham­
pionship rounds," Van Slager 
said. "I only see us going up the 
ladder from here." 
The team has apparently · learned a lot from its first year in the bigtime. According to 
Van Slager, the first lesson 
would be called "On Staying 
Aggressive" and a second "On 
Keeping Momentum". ' 
As a first year team, the Irish 
coach thinks they have done 
well. Maturity-from another 

Notre Dame's volleyball team ended its season at 2-12, fljter a los.r i11 
state compettlion.  
Gift Certificate• Now Available  
Ronrico Rum Silver or Gold 4!~  Gordon'• Vodka 1.75 Liter 799  

Georre Dickel  
Whiakey  
6~?  
.I  Beefeater  
~  ~ Gin ~~ 750ml.';t 7''  
~ -jtl{  JAB Scotch  __I _u~~  999  

•• Chiva• Reral ]]99
Scotch :~ ='· 
Benchmark 
Bourbon 
99 
750ml. 

Canadian Club 
Whiakey 
99 
750ml.
-Crown Royal 7110 99 9 Canadian Whiakey _':1 
Liqueun Of The Week 
Suatory Melon 
Liqueur 

CointNau 
Amaretto 

Coco Rib. 
·Liqueur 

Conte Lamp 899 Chianti ___ ~~ ':1:.. t::• 
The Kinr'• Commitment To You! 
* 
ALWAYS LOW, LOW PRK'I'IG ON QUAUTY PROD\JCTS. 

* 
11lE MOST COURll:OUS SERVICE POSSIBI.E. 


* SA1lSfAC110N GUARANTEED 
MINI 
• 14ZI MWY.wW Au. • 440 I S. Mkbiaaa 117-7744 111-HOO 
• Hl4 L Mc:Ki.a.y A••· • 17ZI N. lro~~wiMMII
.,,__ 
111-1144 


The Observer
, 
' 
' 
Zettek 
•

recetves 
A.P. 

defensive honors 
CHICAGO (AP)-End Scott Zettek of Notre Dame has been named Midwest Player of the Week on defense by the Associ­ated Press for his inspiring per­formance in Saturday's 7-0 vic­tory over Alabama. 
Zettek, a 6-5, 240-pound senior fron. Elk Grove, Ill., set the pace in what turned out to be a brilliant defensive battle by showing who was in charge on the opening series. 
"Scott stopped Major Ogilvie for that two-yard loss on the first play and that set the tempo for the whole game," said teammate Bob Crable. . 
"I don't know if one play can set the tempo," Ogilvie said, "but that first play showed me that Notre Dame was really ready to play football." 
Zettek recalled the play and said "I got rid of my man (Eddie 
EVANSTON, Ill. (AP)­associated athletic director, will Northwestern Athletic Director serve as interim athletic director. John Pont and head football Northwestern was 0-11 this coach Rick Venturi both were past season concluded by a 39-19 fired yesterday in the wake of a loss to Wisconsin last Saturday disastrous and winless football which extended the Wildcats' season marked by a revolt of losing streak to 20 games, long­black players. est in the nation among major 
The announcement was made universities. by University President Robert Venturi, a former Strotz who said an immediate Northwestern player, succeeded search is being made for re­Pont as head coach with Pont placements and that Ken Kraft, remaining as athletic director. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
tBAHAMAS REUNIONII! I 
lt ~'$-~ 
t ~ t ~~ 

THURSDAY, noveniler lOt 
S-12 pm  ~  l  
regina lounge-smc  t  
t  

L!~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
McCombs) and I saw all three Alabama backs coming right at me. I thought, 'So this is what it's going to be like.' I managed to stop the one with the ball." 
Zettek was credited with 11 · tackles including one for a loss and recovered the fumble which led to the game's only touch­down. 
The Notre Dame defense has not allowed a rushing touch­down in 24 quarters and no touchdowns in the last 20 quarters. 
Also nominated for the award were linebacker Andy Cannavino of Michigan and safety Tim Cunningham of Michigan State. Cannavino had eight solo tackles in Michigan's 26-0 victory over Purdue. One of the tackles was for a loss, and he also intercepted a pass. 
Wednesday, November 19, 1980-page 10 

Scott Zettek, Notre Dame's defensive end, was selected AP Mtdwest 
Defenseman ofthe week. 
0-11 setron 

Pont, Venturi lose jobs at Nrthwestem 
Venturi had two years to go on and taking the helm at Indiana in five-year contract. In his three 1965. years as head coach he posted a 1-Pont had a 31-51-1 record at 31-1 record which included 27 Indiana but ran into a racial straight losses in Big Ten com­protest following his successful petition. 1967 campaign when the 
In fact, the last time Hoosiers were 6-1 in the Big Ten. Northwestern scored a Big Ten "I didn't think I'd have to go victory was against Illinois in the through this twice," Pont was final game of the 1977 season in quoted as saying when a group of Pont's last game as head coach. black players hurled a public 
Pont came to Northwestern as protest against Venturi prior to head coach and athletic director the Ohio State game last month. from Indiana in 1973 and suc­Venturi, 34, denied the racial ceeded Alex Agase as head coach accusations leveled by a group with Agase going to Purdue. At headed by senior running back Indiana Pont led the Hoosiers to Mike Cammon who has since a share of the 1967 Big Ten quit the team, and the coach championship and a trip to the called them "unwarranted." Rose Bowl where Indiana lost to Southern Cal14-3. 
Pont, 54, played at Miami of Ohio and in 1956 succeeded Ara 
Auto racing finds Parseghian as head coach with Parseghian coming to Northwestern. He spent seven seasons at Miami before going to 
the prizes 'sweetened ' 
Yale as head coach in 1963-64 
1Flag' pits 
Farley, B-P 
The women's interhall flag football season closes tonight with the championship game between Farley and defending champion Breen-Phillips. 
Farley, which boasts a 7-0 record, dealt Breen-Phillips its only loss this year, winning 6-0 in overtime in the season opener. Farley downed Walsh 12-0 in playoff action while Breen-Phillips advanced with an 18-12 double-overtime victory over Lewis. Game time isS p.m. atCartier Field. 

By Mike Ha"is AP Sports Writer 
Championship racing, better known as Indy car racing, is akin to a man who has survived a long fever. 
Once ·the fever breaks, the patient quickly begins to regain health. 
The split two years ago be­tween the U.S. Auto Club (USAC) and the then-dissident Championship Auto Racing Teams (CART) rocked the sport and looked for a long time like the sentence ofdoom for the big money Indy circuit. 
But, despite the ego problems and power struggles that have kept USAC and CART from mending their differences, the champ cars appear on the verge of a great resurgence. 
Lending credence to that is the recent announcement that next year's series will have a $1 million point pool. 
Part of the comeback by the disaster is an improvement in the quality ofthe racing, due in large measure to emergence ofground effects. The new ground­hugging aerodynamics give the low-slung racing bullets more stability and allow them to run closer together. 
Another factor is the emer­gence of CART as a viable sanctioning body. 
Now that the power ofUSAC; the longtime sanctioner of champ car racing, has apparently been limited to the Indy and Pocono 500's, CART'sPPG Indy Car World Series has become the focal point of that division of auto racing. 
And CART, once thought to be only a short-term tool for the • top car owners and drivers to use in muscling USAC into giving them more imput in the rules and purses, is being turned over to proven professionals. 
John Frasco, hand-picked to head the renewed efforts of 
champ cars from the brink of (continued on page 8}
, _______________, 
f  SPOUS STPIF  l  
I  I  
I I1  Mandatory meeting TOMORROW 6:30p.m.Observeroffice  I I1  
t  newcomers welcome  J  

~---------------' 




Wednesday, November 19, 1980 -page 12
orts 
Number-two, how long? 
by Bill 
I rish/

tetns Marquard
Hail Mary, full ofgrace, the Irlsb-are in sewndplace. 
With the pressures of being the nation's number-one team gone (whether a sigh ofdespair GOING BOWLING-The Irish will be making their
Beth 

second trip ever to the Sugar Bowl onJam·ary 1st, and it could and Alabama out ofthe way (a definite sigh ofrelief or one of relief is appropriate, I'm not yet sure) 
very well be the second time that that game will decide the
Huffman 
national championship for the Irish. Notre Dame upended a to complete a grueling 1980 grid schedule. and joyous shout), the second-place Irish prepare 
top-ranked Alabama squad 24-23 in the 1973 classic to. earn Despite reports of "we can't look past Air 
national honors. Force" (even though it's quite easily done) and 
By opting to play Georgia for the national championship, the "there's still Southern Cal to contend with" (isn't 
Athletic Department powers-that-be forfeited some $800,000,
The team that has a following that extends m·er all there always?)-the thought of a national 
the difference between proceeds from the Sugar Bowl and the
of Christendom-maybe further. championship flo lds the mind. 
nation's richest game, the Cotton Bowl. Needless to say, the
Notre Dame and Georgia will meet for the first. Thus far in 1980 the magic number-one has 
decision was not really that hard to make.
time ever on New Year's Day, 1981 at the Sugarbeen everything but lucky for collegiate teams­
Notre Dame has been allotted 12,500 tickets for the 80,000Bowl in New Orleans, Lousiana. It will be Dan seat .Superdome. Approximately 3,000 of those tickets will beUCLA pulled the rug from Earl Bruce and the 
Devine's last game as the Irish mentor, the last Buckeyes', Mississippi State upset the Tide, and 
made available to the student body, most probably via a lottery. 
game forJohn Scully, Tom Gibbons, Scott Zettek Georgia Tech "defeated" Notre Dame. 
This represents a marked increase in the student allotment over
and the rest ofthe seniors. Seniors that want to goGeorgia has survived its first week in the coveted 
past bowl games. Students were allowed to purchase only 2,000 
out in style. slot, after defeating Auburn 31-21-but the 
tickets to the 1977 and 1978 Cotton Bowls, and were onlyStyle, unique style is a'basic characteristic ofthe allotted 1,000 tickets for the 1973 Sugar Bowl (despite the factnation's top football team is in for a real "Dog" Irish. There's something poetic about the way that the University's total allotment was 13,500).
fight this weekend. Saturday the Georgia Bulldogs Scott Zettek makes a quarterback "bite the dust." 
Each ticket costs $17, and according to Ticket Manager Mike (10-0) take on The Ramblin' Reck of Georgia Heart and desire are other characteristics ofthe Busick, tickets will be available to students "sometime afterTech-that's right, the team that ousted the Irish. 
young Irish: This 8-0-1 team wasn't even ranked in Thanksgiving break, probably in the first week ofDecember."
Should the 'Dogs get past Tech with no some pre-season polls. Skeptics claimed 1981 TOUGH TO BEAR-When the Irish blanked 'Barna onproblem, they will have 40 days to wait and think would be the Year ofthe Irish, that 1980 would be Saturday, it marked the first time since 1976 that the Tide hadabout the Irish. a gt:owing year. Now Notre Dame, laden with been shutout, when Georgia turned the trick 21-0. The last timeThe Irish that have a reputation as "spoilers." sophomores, juniors and even freshmen in key that Bear's boys were shutoutin Birminghamwas in1958, whenThe Irish that have defeated Alabama and roles, giving key performances, is number-two. 
Vanderbilt held the Tide to a0-0 tie in Bryant's first appearanceMichigan, both teams in the AP Top Twenty. And number-two is not good enough for the ever <~;t Legion Field. Incidentally, only seven members of thisThe Irish that defeated Purdue and Miami when Irish. The seniors tasted the fruits of a national year's varsity had even been born at that time.
both were ranked. championship in 1977 and they'd like to leave the THE BEAR FACTS-This week's issue of Sports Illustrated,The Irish that have bowl experience. The Irish same way they came in-winners. To do that they which was due on the newstands this morning, features anthat have national championship experience must get past Air Force, confront the Trojans and extensive feature on the Irish/ Alabama battle by veteran writer(remember Texas, the Cotton Bowl, the 1977 unseat the 'Dogs. 
Douglas Looney, who spent most ofthe pastweek on the Notre
crown). Hail Mary full ofGrace, The Irish are in second-place. 
Dame campus (maybe he knew something we didn't).
Ah, yes the Irish. The "nation's football team." 
But, for how long? 
The four-page article (sorry, Sugar Ray Leonard got the cover), features six pictures from the game, five ofwhich are of the Irish (ah, the spoils of victory). Phil Carter, Bob "Bigger
Six foes in top 10 
than life" Crable, Harry Oliver and Blair Kiel, among others, were all captured by the magazine's photographer. Considering "Bear" Bryant's 0-4 record against Notre Dame,
Irish 1Oth in A.P. poll 
Looney wrote, " ... to question the decisions of a man who will By Tom Canavan The Wildcats, whose fortunes guided by Ray Meyer, college 
soon be the winningest coach in history is perhaps pre­AP Sports Wrtler will pivot around 7-1 sophomore basketball's winningest a<;:tive 
sumptuous. But Bryant prompts it himself with his repeated center Sam Bowie, collected 30 coach with 623 victories, col­
observations that only his coaching can screw things up. He NEW YORK (AP)-of 59 first-place votes and 1,131 lected 1,072 points and 18 first­
doesn't mean it, ofcourse, but it does set others to considering Kentucky, whose five national points in the balloting by a place votes. The Demons fin­
the possibility. At the least, Bryant should be questioning his wisdom in giving one ofhis famed hats to Notre Dame Athletic
collegiate basketball titles ranks nationwide panel ofsport writers ished first in last season's final AP Director Moose Krause years ago at a New York City dinner. 
second only to UCLA's 10, and broadcasters. poll, taken before the oost-Moose has worn it the week of all four Alabama games. 'This
grabbed the top spot in The Coach Joe Hall's team was season tournaments. Associated Press 1980-81 pre­tabbed on every ballot, receiving Coach Denny Crum's Louis­
hat,' says Moose, 'is undefeated.' And so, of course, is Notre Dame...''
season poll yesterday as DePaul no vote lower than seventh ville Cardinals, who will be Funny, but isn't that the same magazine that failed to pick
finished a -close second and place. without sensational swingman Notre Dame in the Top Twenty of its pre-season poll?
defending champion Louisville a DePaul, sparked by All-Darrell Griffith this season. were A TROJAN HOLIDAY-Air Force notwithstanding, Notre
distant third. American Mark Aguirre and tabbed No.1 on two ballots and Dame's annual showdown with USC looms as an all-important
collected 902 points. 
step between the Irish and another national title. That game
Each of the next six teams in 
might be an omen as well, for in the last 14 years Notre Dame
The Top 20 received at least one 
has beaten the Trojans only three times.
first-place vote. 
And in each one ofthose three years, the Irish have gone on to
Maryland, Indiana and UCLA 
win the national championship. 
each collected two first-place 
PROPHETIC GREETINGS-Bob Crable received an
votes in finishing fourth, fifth 
anonymous package from Tennessee last week before the
and sixth, respectively. The 
Alabama game (it wasn't ticking). Inside the package were three
Terps received 837 points, only 
t-shirts, one ofwhich Crable wore under his jersey on Saturday.
one more point than Bobby 
The significance of the shirts, printed and distributed by
Knight's Hoosiers. The Bruins, 
Alabama partisans, became paradoxically apparent after
last year's NCAA runnerup to 
Monday's college football poll was released. The shirts read: 
(continued on page 9) 
Hail Mary, Full of Grace Notre Dame's in second place 
Never truer words spoken! 
When Pete Buchanan, Jack Shields, Bob Clasby and Pat Kramer returned from Birmingham Saturday night, they found
Top 20. 
The top Twenty teams in The 
a poster on their door with similar greetings: 
Associated Press preseason college 
Hail Mary, Full of Grace

basketball poll, with first-place votes in parentheses, last season's records and 
Notre Dame says in your face! 
total points. Points based on 20·19-18­17-16-15-14-13-12-11-1 0-9-8-7-6-5-4-3­
HOW DID THEY KNOW?-Wherever Irish fans went
2-1: 

after Saturday's game, they were always reminded ofthe happy 
1. Kentucky (30) 29-6 1,131 
results. Even in Chicago. 
2. DePaul (19) 26-2 1,072 
Five video screens hang from the ceiling in front of United
3.Louisville (2) 33·3 902 
Airline's baggage claim section of O'Hare airport. Four of the
4. Maryland (2) 24-7 837 5. Indiana (2) 21-8 836 
screens Saturday informed passengers of flight and baggage 
6.UCLA (2) 22-10 826 
pick-up information. The fifth simply proclaimed: 
7. Oregon State (1) 26-4 731 
Final Score

8. Virginia (1) 24-10 724 9. Ohio State (1) 21-8 717 
Notre Dame 7 

10. Notre Dame 22-6 591 
Alabama 0 

11. Missouri 25-6 580 
And at that tiine, the game had already been over for nine
12. Louisiana State 26-6 509 
hours.

13. North Carolina 21-8 508 14. rowa 23-10 316 
THE BANQUET CIRCUIT -Notre Dame's annual football 
15. Texas A&M 26-8 279 
banquet, honoring this year's Sugar Bowl-bound team, will be 
16. Georgetown, DC 26-6 255 
held Wednesday, December 10 in the arena of the ACC.
17. St. John's, NY 24-5 180 
Cocktails are slated for 5:30p.m. with dinner at 7 p.m. Tickets
18. Brigham Young 24-5 157 19. Syracuse 26-4 135 
are $18 per person (the same price as last year) and are available 
20. Arkansas 21-8 129 
to students by calling Col. Stephens' of~ice in the Athletic. Department. 




