-------~-----------­
, , , 25-1?-Pages 7to 10 
/ 





In New Hampshire 

Carter, Reagan -win prim.ary 
CONCORD* N.H. (AP) President Carter defeated Sen. Edward Kennedy in New Hampshire's presidential pri­mary election last night, but the defiant Democratic challen­ger concede nothing. Ronald Reagan won a Republican land­slide over George Bush, and reclaimed the GOP nomina­tion. 
Kennedy, in what amounted to a celebration of defeat, told cheering supporters that his campaign issues will take hold in the big industrial states where the campaign has yet to be waged. 
Carter, at the White House, said his victory shows that the voters "support the policies that we've espoused in inter­national affairs and our at­tempts to deal with the in­flation issue and energy.'' 
Asked whether he had effec­tively eliminated Kennedy from the race, Carter said "I think that's a judgement for him to make. I would guess not." 

The Republican primary pro­duced a virtual withdrawal by Sen. Bob Dole of Kansas, who . ran dead last and said he would enter no more prima­ries because ''it's not going anywhere.'' 
While New Hampshire held its keynote primary, Minnesota held precinct caucuses begin­ning with the process of sel­ecting 75 Democrmic national convention delegates and 34 Republican delegates. Carter was headed for an easy in a Democratic straw vote. 
With all the vote counted in New Hampshire, Democra­tic returns showed: -Carter 53,586 or 49 percent -Kennedy 41,540 or 38 percent -California Gov. Edmund G. BrownJr. 10,727 or 10 percent. 
Two minor candidates got scattered support. 
That translated into 10 Demo­cratic nominating votes for Car­ter, 9 for Kennedy. Thus far this year, Carter has gained 55 nominating votes to Ken­nedy's 36. 
In the Republican Contest, it was: 
Reagan 72,734 or 50 percent. 
Bush 33,304 or 23 percent. 
Sen. Howard Baker Jr., 18,760 or 13 percent. Rep. John R. Anderson of Illinois, 14,622 or 10 percent. Rep. Philip Crane of Illinois 2,633 or 2 percent. Former Texas Gov. John Connally 2,215 or 2 percent. 
Dole had 608 votes and fmmer President Gerald R. Ford had 380 writ-in votes. 
His victory brought Reagan's GOP delegated total to 22, a tie with Bush. Baker has 7 altogether. Anderson picked up his first 2 delegates, and Connally still has 1 delegate, won earlier. 
''This is the first and it sure the Best," said Reagan. "We'll 
l· u11tmut!d on pase 4] 
Insh coach Digger Phelps
Diggerappears cheered enthusiastically at yesterday's pep rally. [photo by]ohn Mac or] 
On hockeyfuture 

Uncertainty retnains 
versity administration with
by Mike Lewzs . 
planning specific proposals to
Executive News Edztor 
meet the needs of Notre 
The -Executive Committee of Dame's women athletes. The the Board of Trustees released committee noted, however, that a statement that declared sup­such programs may "result in 
port for Notre Dame's women some curtailment, over time, in athletes yc;sterday, but left the one or more existing sports future of non revenue-produ-programs at Notre Dame." 
cing sports unclear. . Richard Conklin, director of The statement, summmg up Information Services, said yes-the Feb. 16 meeting of the 
[. •111/llltNd on page II]
Committee, charges the Uni-

George Bush Jr. to speak 
by John Me Grath and achievements. Niehaus no­for a fund-raising party to be 
Senior StaffReporter ted that the campus committee held Saturday night. 
had been held responsible for Much of the unofficial discus­
At a meeting held last night, obtaining about one-third of rht sullls among_ committee mem­
Jun Niehaus, co-chairman of signatures necessary from this bers centered on the controver­
·the campus George Bush for congressional district to have sial weekend debate between 
President Committee, an­Bush· s name placed on the Bush and Konald Reagan. 
nounced that the candidates ballot for the May 6 Indina ''I think we might have been 
son, George, would make an pnrnary. hurt a little bit,'' Niehaus said of appearance at the Mock Republi­Members of the committee, the carnpa1gu in response to can Lonverition on March 7. representing most halls on cam­queries about local reaction to Bush plans to arrive Friday pus, were g1ven information the highly publicized event. afternoon and hold a press packets explammg the campus The debate, sponsored by the conference. Both private and organization as well as Bush'-S Manchester Union Leader, be­public receptions will be held. stands on controversial topics. came controversial aher a last He will the address the conven­King stressed the importance of minute Reagan bid to have tion's delegates. distributing these packets to other Republican candidates 
Niehaus, along with fellow delegates on campus as early as included. The debate's modera­
chairman Jim King, outlined possible. tor, an official of the newspa­
the -wrnrnittee's other plans King also announced plans per, refused, although the Rea­




gan campaign had dgreed to underwr.ite the expense ot the event, and ordered the other candidates to be excluded·fron.­

Convention delegates speak at SMC 
the discussion. Bush subsequently became 

by Mark Rust night's forum -· is expected: the target of verbal abuse by
News Editor The surrogate candidates evidenced an interest~ng split of 
the excluded candidates, who opinion on the topic of J?RA befor~ the a~l-fe~al.~ audien~e. Each 

felt that he was largely respon­Espousing roughly similar views on the economy and defense, candidate expressed, tn turn, his belief tn equal nghts for 
sible for their expulsion. The eight representatives of candidates in the ND/SMC Mock women,'' but only the Stassen, Anderson, Connally and Simon 

bad publicity centering on Bush Republican Convention answered the questions of rnoderator.s representatives said their man favored passage of the ERA 
had some ]political watchers and a small audience in last night's forum in Carroll Hall atSaint arnmendrnent. 
worried about possible damage 

Mary's. Phil Crane's repres en tative pointed out that the a1mendment to his campaign. 
But perhaps the most revealing answers, particularly on a was "unnecessary and unwise," since the Fourteenth A~end· 
·'A lot will depend on what college campus and particularly coming one decade after the great ment already provides the legal precedent for equal nghts 
happens in New Hampshire," social awareness of the sixties, were those which dealt with ''~uns between men and women of all races. 
Niehaus said, "If he (Bush) and butter.'' To question: Can we have both a strong military A question from the audience on tht; stance ?f each .c~ndid~te · wins, 1 think it would be safe to and strong social programs, the answers ranged from 'Tm not regarding the restructuring of the soctal secunty adrnimstrauon 

say their has been no effect; if sure what you mean by social programs(Reagan),'' to ''We want to caught most representatives off ~uard. Their answers ranged 
he loses there might have been increase employment for the poor --I think that's what you mean from the Fernandez stance that soctal security ''would come under some damage; but if he gets 

by social programs(Crane)." his idea of wasteful ~overnm_ent pro&~ams,:' to the Connally sandbagged, then I think theyrepresentative's tentative offenng that the ~~~h woul? probably (press and political watchers) pay more and the poor pay less," in any addmonal batlout tax. 
will attribute it to the debate."
Campaign '80...The Campus View 

The Connally representative along with the Baker ~epresent­Both Niehaus and Kingative, fared well. On most issues, they presented a potsed front, expressed. co~fidence in earn­That is one small indicator of what the Notre Dame campus can controlled diction and consistently coherent answers. The Crane pus orgamzauon.
expect when the second forum is held in the Library auditorium representative ~ave the most concise answers reflecting_ his man's "I think we have, if not thetomorrow at 7 p.m. 

stand though, like the Reagan rep, he poi~ted ?Ut that his ~nswers best organization on campus,Other views on which the audience might expect near unanimity were virtually identical to the former Caltform.a governors. . 
then at least one that is tiedinclude the issue of the budget (it should be balanced), taxes (they Most candidates, with the exception of the Simon rep, reframed with the best,'' Niehaus said.

shouldbe cut) and defense (it should be strong). The candidate's from attacking their opponents by name. The gloves came off, "We're pretty well organized,representitives were very clear on their man's plan for the howe.ver, when the issue of Ronald Reagan's age arose. . 

we've been working rogethereconomy, showing a great depth of knowledge on how to curb The rep for the 69-year-old Reagan passionately defended ~ts now for four weeks, and weinflation, but less expertise on details of defense or foreign policy, man, while the rep for Harold Stassen, the 74-year~old perren~al have a strong central committee two subjects which, surprisingly, did not surface at all. 

presidential contender, concurred. Crane's man satd that, whtle that meers every week.''
Overall, the first forum was a good warmup for tomorrow's, at which the George B1,1sh representative ·· · not present at last [dJnlinued on page 4] 
[continued un page 4) 



-~--~~-~ 

r 
r 


News in brief 
Fears ofThree Mile Island 
resurface in Florida mishap 
A reactor at a nuclear power plant shut down automatically yesterday when the plant's instrumentation and control systems lost power and some radioactive c_ooling water spilled inside the plant, said officials of Flonda Power Corp. There was no leakage of radioactive material outside the Crystal River No. 3 plant and no danger to th~ I?ublic, said the utility and the Nuclear Regulatory Commtsswn. Some employees were evacuated from the plant after a site emergency was declared. "There has been no measured off-site release of radioactive material," said the NRC statement issued in Washington. It said conditions at the plam ''appear to b'e stable.'' NRC spokeswoman Sue Gagner said in Washington that radioactive water was confined to the comainment building, which houses the reactor. ~here was no immediate estimate on the amoum of water sptlled. 
White House seeks funds for registration ofmen only 
The Carter administration, told its proposal for draft registration of women is ''down the drain,'' agreed today to seek money separately for registering men. The decision marks a major change in strategy tn the administration campaign to begin registering men and women, aged 19 and 20, this summer. Until now, the White House request fot registration money has been a single package containing funds for registration of both men and women. However, 
john P. White, deputy director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, said the administration is willing to treat its request separately, with money for men and women in different packages. The administration is seeking $20.5 million for the fiscal year now under way for the registration program. 
Congressgivesgo -aheadfor 
windfallprofits tax on oil 
A Senate-House conference committee gave final approval yesterday to a$277. 3 billion ''windfall'' tax on the oil industry after agreeing on a formula for helpinf milions of Americans cope with rising fuel costs. The bil earmarks nearly $57 billion in the 1980s to help an estimated 18 million families near or below the povert~· line. But the conference junked a provision aimed at helping "working poor" families whose mcomes were up to $22,000 a year. The long-awaited tax measure could open the door for across-the-board income-tax reductions for individuals and corporations as early as next fall. Although President Carter opposes any tax-cut action now for fear it would worsen inflation, spokesmen for his administration hailed the bill as one of athe greatest domestic achievements during the president's term. The measure intends to assure that the oil industry does not profit unduly from his plan to. reduce U.S. remittance on imported energy. 
Weather 
Windy and cold today. Good chance for lake-effect snow. Highs in the upper 20s. Partly cloudy with a chance for snowflurries tontght. Low near five above. Partly sunny Thursday. High in the low to mid 20s. Becoming northwesterly tomorrow. 


CariiP-....-..u___s-~ 
J.j pm ISIS GALLERY, "works on paper," by u. of dallas, l'il'i GALLERY. 
7:00 pro MANDATORY MEETING, leaders of nazz music 
cornpctrlrtron ans, NAZZ. 8:o~o pm BASKETBALL, nd-depaul, ace. 
8:1) prn CONCERT, william cerny, piano, LIB. AUD. 
IO:OU pm CONCERT•. "jazz widt rms,_" NAZZ. . .• ·-..,......~ .,..• "-::""• ';_ :O.~ I • • ~ 
.·2. 
~ 
. 

Wednesday, February 27, 1980-page 2 
Mock Stock Marketopens 
Agent Orange effects 
Controversy continues 
WASHINGTON (AP) · A decision by the Pentagon op­posing a study of the effects of the controversial herbicide A­gent Orange on 2 million sol­diers in Vietnam is drawing fire from a Iawver representing thousands of veterans. 
Defense ofticials told a Se­nate committee last week that a comprehensive study of the effects of the herbicide would cost millions ofdollars and may not establish whether men ex­posed to the spray were any more endangered than men who did not serve in Vietnam. 
But the lawyer representing about 3,000 veterans in a lawsuit over Agent Orange says the Pentagon's position shows the government ''does not re­cogmze the serious magnitude of the problem." 
Government officials "ho­nestly think this will ~o away,'' New York attorney Vtctor Yan­nacone · said in a telephone interview this weekend. He said they are mistaken in their reasons for objecting and their assumption that the matter can be dropped. 
But Yannacone said concerns about cost were unjustified, arguing that the study could be 
"' 

~The Observer-
Night Editor:Ann Monaghan Asst. Night Editor:Danny 
Tarullo, Mike jans Copy Editor:M.B. Moran Layout Sta/f:Mary Leavitt, Patty Sheehan News Editor:Mike Shields Editorial Layout: Tina Terlaak Sports Layout: Brian Beglane Sports Copy Editor:Mike 
Ortman Typist:Carol Cornwall, ~arol Shuback, Katie Bi~ane EMT:Kathy Fesun, Cindy Grillot Proofreader:john Chaussee ND Day Edi'tor:Mike Lewis Supplement Layout:Paul 
Mullaney, john Smith Photographer:)ohn Macor Gueat Appearances:Beth 
Przio, Bill Marquard, Jim Smith, Gary Marchiori, Rick 'Big Troubles' Dohring 
Tilt Obslrvtr (USPS -121! II 
publisltld Monday tllraugll Frlllly n· cept during rum IIIII IICIIIIII ...... 
• The Observer Is pablisllld .., till ltlldlnts of 1111111 o... .. Slllll 
=~....... SlllllcrlpiiJ • ..,Ill 
... $211 per ,.., 1111 ,., II!Nitlrl fl'llll The ObserVer, 1'.0. 1111 O.IMtn D11111, IIIIIIIRI .... s-d ella pos1lge jllid, lllltrl o...... . 
diiRI ~-.
Tile Observer Ill .,...... If 1111 ~tid Praa:' All .......... rlgflts ......... 

done for less than $10-million. 
''That is not a lot of money in the federal budget," he ar­gued. 
Class office 
candidates 


to meet 

There will be a meeting for all candidates running for class office tomorrow night at 10 
p.m. in the Student Govern­ment Offices. Campaign guide­lines will be discussed and petitions will be distributed. Only those tickets who have turned in platforms will receive petitions. 
Studyprogram 

seeks volunteers 

The Neighborhood Study Help Program is looking to fill several positions for the up­coming year. Anyone interes­ted in helping to co-ordinate the program contact Sue Claus at 41-4515, joe Witchger at 7102, or john Sax at 232-0265. 
Attention ALL JUNIORSIII 
Make yourapPOintmentfor youryearbook portraittoday. 

3557, orstop bylC LaFortune, offthe ballroom. 
Members of the faculty are also invited to participate. Fr. Theo­dore Hesburgh, president ot the University, opened the event one year,Conway recalled 
This year's marker features the highest total amount of prize money, totalling $215. Prizes are awarded to accounts earning the most money in the time period. 
The $100 first prize was dt!nated by the brokerage firm of Thomson and McKinnon of South Bend. The firm also supplied the forms, similar to at:tual forms, ~used in stock transactions. 
Conway also pointed out that an investment fund exists for student use. Presently valued at approximately $25,000, it began with a $10,000 anony­mous donation in 1956 from a member of the Advisory Coun­cil of the College of Business Administration. 
Membership in the Invest­ment Fund Group is open to all students, although it is mainly wrnposed of finance majors. The fund provides an opponu­tlll y to use long-range invest­ment objectives. Stocks are researched by small groups and investment decisions are made by the executive committee. 
.. J'lle Mock Stock Market and tht.· Investment Fund Group, together,'' Conway noted, "J1elp students to become ac­quamted with the stock market and the management of a portfolio." 
!'he pr(·setH Mock Stock Mar­ket has more business than it e<tll handle during rush periods, aLcording to Mtke Claerhout, senior Finance major. Common stocks from both the New York and American Stock Exhcanges 
·arc sold and traded at current pnces as reponed by the tele­quote machine in the Hayes­Healy building. Clanhout said chat the stocks of major oil compaines have been the most popular stocb<>o far. He added he hoped more nun-business majors would · chuuse to participate, as they art· nut exposed to investment s1tuatiuns 111 their classes and the Mock Market would furnish an. excellent opportunity for them. 
The Mork Srock Market will be open daily until March 26, from 10 am to 3: 30 pm, in the l,,bby of the old business ad­mmistration building. 
by Laun·e Lanmore Senior Staff Reporter 

The Annual Mock Stock Mar­ker, which opened Monday, is an annual event, begun in 1969. 
Sponsored by the Fmance Club as a fund-raising project, its. basic purpose is to ''give stu­dents an opportunity to learn the mechanics of the stock market in a way that is fun," according to Paul F. Conway, associate professor of Finance and the Club's sponsor. 
Conway, who has been with the Mock Market since its creation, explained that the first market was organized as a trading game to allow students to participate in stock market operations without the invest· ment risks found in the real world. It was not designed, he added, to exemplify sound in­vestment principles, due to its 
short term nature. 

The marker has exhibited the same "up years" and "down years'' found in the actual stock market, Conway remembered. Over the years ir has predom­inantly attracted business stu­dents, especially sophomores, although students from other colleges have won prize'>. 
• ­
~·... ~ ~· 



~--------------­

. The Observer 

.Vfudunna Kolbensch!ag spoke regarding women and the • dJitrch yesterday in Farley. See Adjoining story. [photo by }•Jhn Macor] 
In Kabul 

Indian forces arrest Moslem rioters 
NEW DELHI, INDIA (AP)­F.n·ces loyal to Afghanistan's bdeagured Marxist govern­mem swept through Kabul yes­terday and arrested large num­bers of Shiite Mo~·dems for their suspected role in violent anti­s,,viet riots last week, accor­ding to reports reaching here from reliable source~ in the Afghan capital. 
However, official Radio Kabul broadcasts promrsmg shopkeepers protection if they ret u rncd to work and urging government workers to go back to 11)1eir jobs suggested both strikes against the government wne conrmurng. The govern­men! radio 1said babies went w11 lwut milk and families with­out food because of the shop­kl'epers strike, r:wugh it insist­nl. wit hour explanation of the appan:nt contradiction, that most shopkeepers had returned 
'''work. In Washington, a Caner ad­ll111llstration official said Presi­detll Carter had pledged US wdl1ngness "10 join in a guar­antee of true neutrality and non-lrHerference in Afghani­stan's internal affairs" once the cstrmated 70,000 Soviet troops Withdraw from the Central Asian nation. The Carter administration of­ticial refused to say the presi­dcnt's letter represented a re­ply to Soviet President Leonid Brezhnev. But Brezhnev said last week, "If the U.S. together with the neighbors of Afghani­stan guarantee (non-interfer­erll:e} and then the needs of Soviet mili~ar~. assistance will cease to exrst. The official Soviet news 
agency Tass published state-, rnents by the nation's top propagandrst, Leonid Zamyatin 
challenging Carter to "com­mand" and end to alle~ed U.S. interference in Afgbamstan "if the United States wanted peace in the region.'' 
***************•*
• * 
~ Besure ~ 
* * 


~ tovotetoday! ~ 
* •
***************** 

His comments were printed just as the thrust of Carter's comments conta4ned in a letter tu Yugoslav President· Josip Tiro made 1-'ublic. In what was perhaps his last diplomatic mitiative, the gravely ill Tito l.tst week sent letters toCarter anJ Brezhnev urging them to pursue detente. 
The Soviet military comman­der in Afghanistan earlier ap­peared to have taken charge of the Afghanistan government in face of the paralyzing strikes by the shopkeepers and civil ser­v~ults against President Rarrak Karmai's eight-week-old g•>vcrnmcnt. 
A rcliable report said 85-90 
Your Future 






Is Our Future 
Guy F. Atkinson Co. is one of the world's largest construction fir!)1s with an outstanding record of achievement and a reputation for integrity that is second to none. 
The professional development of our employees has been the foundation of our success. Many of the management people who have been responsible for that success were employed through our college relations program. 
If you're ready for challenge and intend to develop to ydur maximum potential, come and talk with us. We will be interviewing Seniors who will receive their BS degrees only this fall, for career positions in these areas: 
Civil Engineering Mechanical Engineering Business Management 
March 3, 1980 
Contact your placement center for infor­-mation and a personal appointment. 
an equal opportunity employer
Gn 






atkinson co. 
Wednesday, Februatj Z'l, 198&-~! 
Wotnen hold key role in Church 
by Sal Granata Senior StaffReporter and Rosemary Mills Editor in Chief 
''The empowerment of wo­men is crucial to the moral evolution of humanity," Ma­donna Kolbenschlag told a smal. audience in Farley Hall last night. Speaking on behalfof the Ad Hoc Committee on Women and the Church. 
Kolbenschlag, an associate professor of American Studies at Notre Dame cited the importance of female role mo­dels in motivating women for success. She stated that studies show lower motivation for wo­men in male identified fields such as math, economics and engineering. Studies also show that women are underrriotivated 
·in coeducational institutions, 
such as Notre Dame that are 
male oriented. 
Kolbensclag said she saw the same lack of female models in the Church. "The task of Christian women is to go back­ward and examine the message of christianty.'' 
"She emphasized the trans­
cendant'' nature of Jesus 
Christ ''] esus was a person who 
per cent of Kabul stores were t loseJ Monday because of the ,>rotest over the Soveit occu­
parron. There was no clear; indication how long the shop closings would last, but one underground leaflet claimed the protest had been set for six days. That would mean yester­
day was the last day. 
The report from Kabul, quoc ting consistently reliable Af­ghan sources, said many, but a still undetermined number, of Shiite Hazara tribesmen were taken into custody yesterday. Tire sources declined to be identified by name, nationality or occupation because they karnl reprisals against them. 

went against the mamstream of 
the time.  In tre,J.tment of wo­ 
men  and  outsiders,  he  stood  
apart."  

As an example of the trans­cendant nature of Jesus, Kol­benschlag mentioned his stand on divorce. Kolbenschlag sug­gested that Jesus found Mosaic law exploitive of women, and that he acted with compassion and insight by refuting It. 
''The Church will not truly br the Church of Jesus until the problems of the man:woman relationship have been solved,'' she said. 
Kolbenschlag said she saw the need for the incarnation in females of messages, roles and functions of Christianty. "Be­cause of their passivity, women tend to be shaped in society as consumers," she said. 
Kolbenschlag offered the 
•------~JULIO'S PIZZA COUP0..--------.
I I 
III'TBODUCTOBY orr•• or MOD ~BD 1 11/a PBICI orr ADILICIOUS 14-IXOB I 
~. 

I WBOLBWRIA! PIZZA· 1 1$•m.-.:..J ,
This is for a delicious Pizza ~lth . w-.u.. I Mozzarella and 1 other topping. Total ;--!-I
___ ,_. 

Cost With Tax • T I ' CIISPf • I 
These are incomprable delicious & • S11FfD PIZZI• 
wholesome pizzas made with all • TICI PIZZI • I 
natural ingredients. 100 percent • '~Wet 1 ~
•t ~ 

wholewheat flour, honey in place of • ,_ Pbza • 
sugar, low fat Mozzarella cheese and ·WEIEUIII 
one other ingredient. 
APB ptesents 

TOm CHAPIN 
in concert 

SATURDAY mARCH 8, 1980 
ST. mARY'S LlnLE THEATRE 
at 8pm 


nckets (untesetved) S3.00through 
smc Ptogtamming Office (284-5787)· 
I TICKET SALES BEGIN TODAYII I 
·term "Perpetual patients" to describe women in contem­porary society. "Women are always on the receiving end, while men do the dispensing." She emphasized that "females have to take up responsibility for their own spiritual life and bodily_ health.'' 
Kolbenschlag noted the dan­ger at Notre Dame of women absorbing the ethic of a male dominated society. At Notre Dame, the traditional male environmenr and the patriarch­al structure of the University 
increase this danger, she claimed. Kolbenschlag believes it is unwise to achieve a 50-50 coeducational ratio until there is a higher gercentage 'of wo­men on the .-acuity. 
[c-ontinued on page 41 


The Observer Wednesday, February 27, 1980.-page 4 
_On conspiracy charges 

Rep. Flood receives probation 

r 
·'' (' 1 •..; Hi! !Ia and Mike Claerhout look on. [photo
• 
'• .J '""' ,\f.IL·~,r] 

: Lawyer's Assistant Program children attend private schools 1 ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY 
federal funding must empha:
1 430 South Michigan Avenue 
s1ze the interests rather that the
Chicago, Illinois 60605 a~ 
school.

(312) 341·3882 .~ 
only to conspiracy. The govern­
ment agreed to drop the other, 
more serious, charges. 
"I agreed to the arrangement 
because I concluded that based 
on the evidence I heard and 
discussions with· lawyers that I 
might be convicted in a trial,'' 
Flood mumbled stiffly after 
wobbling to the front of the 
courtroom to address Gasch 
~arly in the half-hour-long hear­
mg. 
"I don't think I have the 
physical or intellectual re­
sources to defend myself ade­
quately,'' Flood said softly. 
The maximum penalty for 
conspiracy, a misdemeanor in 
the U.S. Criminal Code, is one 
year's imprisonment and a 
$25,000 fine. 
Flood had been charged with taking more than $50,000 in bribes for using his influence as chairman of an important ap­propriations subcommittee in the early 1970s. 
In sentencing Flood, Gasch 
said ,., any term of in­carceration" would be unfair to a man of Flood's age and phys­ical condition. 
Gasch said he will make a final determination of the con­ditions of Flood's probation soon. 
U.S. Attorney Mary Tuohey III, who brought the govern­ment's charges against Flood, said after the hearing that tha case had ended fairly. 
Asked what he thought of the sentence, Tuohey replied, "in the context of Mr. Flood's health, we were not surprised.'' 
Flood was declared mentally competent to stand for retrial last month after a week-long 
Please send me information on Roosevelt's Paralegal Program. 
Day Program8 41 0 Summer 1980 


Convention
' ' ' 
June 12-September 5 0 Fall 1980 September 22·December 12 l •!tlllfiiiL'd/i·l)m page 1] Evening Program8 
age should not be an issue, his candidate was a "younger version"
0 Fall-Winter October 7·March 28, 1981 of Reagan. 0 Spring-Summer The Anderson rep observed that ''it is not just his physical age -­March 17·August 29 his ideas are old," and the Fernandez rep wondered if people Recruiter will be on could trust a 70-year-old president. campu8 APRIL 15 
It was interesting to note that the central issues discussed at last 
name_________ 
night's forum centered on the ERA, energy, economy and defence, phone--------while foreign policy --the leading issue in national polls -· was address________ barely addressed. Issues of foreign policy will certainly be raised tomorrow noght
city·--------­
in the Library auditorium, and the representatives of the 
state____ zip•---­
candidates, having learned what goes over well with a live 
audience, should tend to find positions on which their candidated differ substancially in their quest to gain support in the upcoming mock convention. 
The representatives in last night's forum were: John Anderson ­Larry Hau; Ben Fernandez -Greg Hauth; Howard Baker -Loyd Burke; John Connally -Mark Halsema; William Simon -Greg Sullivan; Ronald Reagan-Andy Cochran; Harold Stassen-Mike Gaz2erro and Phil Crane -Tom Jackman. 
• • • Women 
IJJIIIII!t<-'d ji-om page 3] 
The continuing male domi­nance at Notre Dame is main rained by the inertia of tradition and there exists nothing in the environment to counteract the way things have always been done, she charged. Kolben­schlag pointed out that femi­nism is tied to Christianity, and that most early feminists had , strong prophetic backgr~unds. 
"Femintsm," she satd "is about human liberation, the liberation of human energte that have been trapped ms1de of society's structures for cr ,_ curies." The current r;~dicalsl are extremists, as a group they are currently identified as anti-male she said. Radical femi­
''Chauvinism exists at both ends of the SP~'"ctrum, Kolben­schlag1concluded. ''Women have a long way to go in learning how to cooperate and work together. They have to learn to tolerate political differ­ences and work for a better end." 
Many of Kolbenschlag's the­ses are explained at greater length in her recent book, Kiss Sleeping Beauty Goodbye. 
The Ad Hoc Committee on Women and the Church was formed in order to promote discussion and evaluation of women's involvement with the Church. The committee is stag­ing a works~op o~. camJ?US th1s wcek~~d enttt!ed CruCial ~o~· cerns to whtch the pub!tc IS 
.nists,~'-',;f_ew~~c:; fPfflVJYW~w· ,..,.-.iR~e,.Q ...-...... ,............~ .. ~--H­
-
hearing.· Doctors agree that the 
once-powerful lawmaker suf­
fers from organic brain deteri­
oration, but Gasch ruled that 
the extent of the ailment was 
not great enough to prevent 
Flood from aiding in h1s legal 
defense. 
Defense attorney Alex Kif­
troemer said Flood owes 
$70,000 toward the cost of his 
first trial, which ended in a 
hung jury last year. In addi­
tion, the ex-Congressman must 
pay $400 monthly in interest on 
a $50,000 loan he took out to 
pay le~al costs. 
Wht!e standing before · Gasch, the gaunt but alert 
former congressman leaned on 
his two lawyers. 
Flood of Wilkes-Barre served 
16 terms as representative of 
his district. He resigned his 
House seat Jan. 31 , citing 
health reasons. 
• • •N.H. 
•J!I/tillt<'d./i·um page I] 
be back in the general election because we are going to go all the way." · 
Bush, who came to New Hampshire as the leader off two earlier victories, was the big loser but said one night's disappointment would not block his campaign. "I am absolutely convinced I'm going to win this nomination.'' 
The former United Nations ambassador said his target was to narrow the field to two candidates, and he said that had been accomplished. 
"Essentially, it's boiling down ... to a two-man race'' with Reagan, he said. 
Baker thought otherwise, saying, "I believe that now we're into our second set of frontrun'­ners and there will be another one still.'' 
Anderson said he was elated to be fourth, saying "I can keep going as long as I have clean laundry.'' 
Crane said he wasn't quit­ting, but added he might later. He said he would consider endorsing Reagan if Reagan continues to do well. 
Hours before his victory, Reagan announced a startling shakeup of his organization, ousting his long time campaign manager and installing a new one. 
His campaign spokesman quit, too, leaving the Reagan camp speechless for a while on the night of the former Califor­nia governor's victory. Peter Hannaford, the New spokes­man, finally said Reagan was pleased. 
The dramatic ouster of Reagan's campaign manager, John P. Sears, was announced as Reagan awaited the New Hampshire returns. Sears, un­challenged master of Reagan's strategy in 1976 and early in 1980, was replaced by William ] . Caset, former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Charles Black, Reagan's top delegate hunter, and James Lake, His campaign spokes­man, resigned in the wake of Sears' departure. 
Lake's replacement, Peter Hannaford, said a dispute over spending led to the shake-up . 


• 
A Roosevelt University Lawyer's Assistant repr88ents the mark of quality and acceptance in toda_v's legal community. 

• 
If you are a college graduate and qualify. why not give yourself an 


· advantage by attending Roosevelt University's Lawyer's Assistant Program which is fully accredited by the American Bar Ass'lciation. 
• 
Since the Fall of 1974, 1250 graduates representing over 230 colleges and universities have chosen Roosevelt's Lawyer's Assistant Program for their career training. 

• 
Specialize in: Corporations-Estates, TI·usts and Wills-Litigation-Real Estate llftd ~ortgages-Employee Benefit Plans • -or become a Generalist • 

• 
Over 325 law firms. banks, corporations and government agencies throughout the llnited States have hired Roosevt>lt graduates. 


Hoo-.t•\ t•l! t ·1\1\ t-rsllv cutnuts s.ruclt-nts on the hasis of hHh\ rcluctl nwnt .md ~·rthout rt~gard tn raer. color. t·r·p•·d ,,., rrl' ptn !\tnl handirap 
"f'Vt!lliOM prol(ram onl.v 


WASHINGTON (AP) -For­mer Rep. Daniel J. Flood was sentenced to a year's probation yesterday after pleading guilty tn conspiracy under a plea-bar­gain arrangement with federal prosecutors. 
Flood, 76, stood bowed and trembling before the bench as 
U.S. District Judge Oliver 
. Gasch announced he would ac­cqlt the plea, thus ending the ailmg ex-congressman's two years of legal strife. 
The Pennsylvania Democrat had been charged with con­spiracy, bribery and perjury, but under the plea bargain ar­rangement he admitted guilt 
... Bush 
IJilllllN<'d ji-om page I] 
'·1 f wc can publicize Bush's v1cws, I think that's going to be h1s bcst selling point," Nwhaus added. ''His platform should be very attractive to Notre Dame o.;ludents.'' 
IJush favors the establish­mclll of a balanced budget. He he/1eves that American depen­dl'nce on foreign oil must be rnluced. Along with a need for strong leadership in foreign 
policy, Bush calls for draft ··cgistratlon because the U.S. must t)e able to mobilize quickly 111 an emergency. Bush thinks that tuition tax credits should ·be granted to families whose 
~--~~-------------------------~---------------------------------------------------------~---------------------------­
The Observer 

De~pite student optimism, no \ hanges appear to be forth· n>1ning in the near future con­\crning the possibility of kegs on campus or the extension of dining hall hours, according 
"l> Fr. John VanWolvlear, Vice Pre~ident for student affairs. 
Although Paul Riehle, a mem­ber of the CLC, expressed u>nfidence concerning both is­sues, VanWolvlear was quick to disagree. 
When questioned about kegs, Rtehle stated that ''things look pretty postttve as far as getting keg~ 111 the party rooms," addmg that the administration may just be procrastinating in an effort to delav the issue. 
I {owever, whe(l VanWolvlear was asked if he thought that kegs would soon be allowed of campus, he stated, "I don't think so," and declined further n>~nment o~ the question, say­mg that hts thoughts on the issue as well as the Uni­versity's official position, have been clearly related in pre­VI\>US issues of The Observer. 
VanWolvlear had previously opposed kegs because he did not want to conduct two "ex­periments" with both party mums and kegs at the same tune. 
Rit·hle had considerably more to say on the keg issue. He expressed the opinion that the dcci~ion against kegs has taken on symbolic importance among students, because it has been contested so bitterly for so long. 
"We've worked for a long time on this issue," stated Riehle, "and there's no rational reason why kegs shouldn't be alh!wed in the party rooms. '·tt we can't get the proposal passed, we have to question our ~bility to get anything out of the administration. 
In response to Riehle's po­Sition, VanWolvlear replied that the administration has responded to the CLC' s pro­posals on numerous occasions this year, including granting the students increased hours for their use of the Stepan Center facilities, their agree­ment to the proposal for party rooms, as well as giving them "$40,000 that they never ex­pected" toward the improve­ment of social space within the dorms. 
VanWolvlear stated that the banning of kegs on campus was the decision of University Provost 0. Timothy O'Meara. 
1\lehle was e.qually <_>ptlmistlc about expandmg dimng room hours by as mu..:h as 45 minutes mcxt semester. He explained that the CLC has been nearly 
unanunous about passing this proposal since last semester anJ added that the extra cos~ 
f;>r  such  a  move  would  be  
mmimal.  
l{iehle also  said  that  Food  

Snvices Director James Robin-sun was not against the move. He said he felt it was possi­ble the change might go into ctlcu as soon as next semes­tLT, and said it was almost mandatory upon the conpletion o! the new dorms. 
VanWolvlear said that ex­

lloyal Valley Ski Resort Buchanan, Michigan (616) 698·8847 
CLOSBS'l SKI ABBA !0 llDISMC 17 miles from campus 2 QUAD CRAIB. LiftS 
ter long lines, but he felt that the initiation of 12 o'clock classes was the best solution to the lunch hour rushes. 
. .

V~n~olvlear stated that the ust: ot the new dorms wo~ld take pla..:e gradually, addmg that 125 students ~t most would 
b.e abl~ to move lO ~ext ye~r. Iherdore, he said, Immediate I,H~gc~· hours were not a pres­Sll g ..:on..:ern. 
··While many universities· have a two-and-a-half to one student to chair ratio in their dllling rooms, ours is only two to one, so we are still far .ahead of the average," he con­cluded. 
, .............................................................c 
i~ND O'~i
SMC A~'D9TOR9WH 5 
THEA TRF 284-4196 ST. IHARY'S COlleGe 
i reerR 'K' Sltt9£esi Fa 291tla'dt 1-6-7_g
~ 
l $4.00 ($3.006t4/6cae/&fo66)

; ............................................................. 

are now available for the positions of STUDENT UNION COMMISSIONERS AND COMMISSION COMPTROLLERS. 
;; 

. ~ 
They may be 9?APPLICATIONS picked up at ,..·~ • . DUE the STUDENT' e . ' MARCH ll 
UNION ~ 
OFFICE ~? ,on lnd floor 
,.
LaFortune 

•.fr'?"l FEB 27 'til MARCH 7. 
. 
• 

Wednesday,February 27, 1986 ~~e-5 Junior class finalizes plans for California trip 
Preparations have started for the USC ND/SMC senior trip. The trip will be from Weds., November 26 to Sun. November 
30. This years committee, under the guidance of Father Mario Pedi and Mary Laverty, will be organizing the trip on their own, instead of making arrangements through a travel agency, inorder to keep costs as low as possible. 
The tentative price of the trip will be $350. The price may vary due to an anticipated fuel increase. Included in the costs of the trip will be roundtrip bus transportation from South Bend to Cl1ic.ago, roundtrip charter flight from O'Hare to L.A., four nights au.:omodations at the Shc.:ration Townhouse (four per­-;,Jns tu a room) rental car, (four persons I car) and a game t1ckct. Parties w·ll be held in conjunction w th the L.A. and Orange County Alumni Clubs and there will be plenty of free time for exploring the va·rious tuurist attractions in California. Currently, there are two charters available for the trip: a 
. DC-LO and a DC-8, which will place a limit of 630 for the trip. Thc committee is optimistic that the turnout will be greater 
Bond postpones appearance 
Julian Bond will be unable to attend the Black Cultural Arts Festival as P.lanned. His ap­pearance will be rescheduled and announced at a later date. 
and are investigating the strong possibility of two DC-10s. A $50 deposit will be required from each person planning to go on the trip. This will be collected during the week of March 10-14. Times and places will be announced. Any ques­tions, contact Patty Kelly and Donna Shannon (SMC) or Mike Gies and Anne Fink (ND). 
HPC calls for 
hockey 
support 
,' 
,
The HPC has called on stu­
,
dents to attend this weekend's ,series of hockey games with Minnesota to emphasize their support for the continuation of et as a major sport in a meet.ing here last night . ~ccordmg to Phil Vanderhof, 
t:ahm Hall president, each hall president will campaign in their respective hall for attendance at the game in hopes that it will be a sellout, an indication to the administration of the stu­dent body's support for the sport. 
In other business, the HPC discussed the CLC resolution to relax party rules, but were unable to take any action as a quorum of CLC members were not present at the meeting. 
The HPC will sponsor a collec­tion for the Catholic Charities Cambodian Relief Effort .on Sunday, March 16 in all the halls. 



Got~w~L':' ,?.9..."~~'.'::"?V of life,_·---=---...,~ ..,._... 
Editorials-
A Double Standard on I-Iuman Life 
Lhn~lopher S1ewarr' s col­umnm IIH· February 18 issue of ,;·,e· 0/J-.·n~t'r, ''I Feel A l>1.t11 ... ,... a Vt'r}' revealing l'·•·e ,. wl11, h tell,., why the author kd-. dial "l"hcrt• are rrurhs w '''",I\ '"14 fe1r, hur rwnt· wonh t-..::m~-: ,;,, ... ycr i1 also demon­
....,~,·~ Slnv;trr·.., apparent i.•uill!' '>l.tndard of moralitY. w'''"'·g.llcllnah••ni.,t,. 
'irnv.ur·.., uolumn treats the · ... i,·r ;eo riHtT diffncnt horror ... ,, ~~'' .d,.,u, Vit·rnam veterans. 

Lon ·"'' app:1ll11lg, of course; ..lhH v;gnl'lll'~ reminding us of ·,.. lwll11\ and human waste ,·,.u w.r-,du V!t'l!lam War. But \' ··111.1111 w.t-. 1101 the only war in w.1;. 11 .1 .1, afr took plan:;. and '·'" c 111.11 d1~asrrous contlin w.o, rlw Ill• ,,.,, rraumatic (as well r .1, unm••r.tl) war in this narion 's 
r 
h•.,.•;,. I dunk Stewart does l<hH• ,·. llt'ilher to conscription 1 ollrthr ·'" 11 may he) nor to the .\m,·r" .111 soldier Ill past wars. Bell lla.u i-.. not my primary • '""·111 111 this .ulldl· 
Lu-.. h: Wlule tlu: killing of a l~·.t·.u·-•1.1 Vll'lnanH:sl·girl in a r.• ,. p.1.ld}· 1s nuthing short of 
1"''''''''1g ara,l arn~~>us ~r "'nv.ur. the munkr of a simi­l.uh hdptes~. >TI unborn, hu­
111.111 l)('fllg l'\'Okl'S no such '"·" '"'" in his rn-enr column , .. n, t·rrung abort iun. 
Whar I lind so objectionable '' rht· uun and irreconcilable clr,paruy heiWlTn the ronc of ,;, .. 1wo ~··•lumns--and Sr<.·wart's 
-" ..unp.mymg .loul>k standard ••I lll••r.tlrt ~. lk ctll pass off the l...irurg o( an unborn d1ild as · .h,· '"'ly v•ahlc oprion'' for his l"<"gn;J!ll fnend Mary, while '"11 m.unraining that both he .rn.l M.1ry are oppl1Sl'd ro abor­••·•n 111 prin<iplc. Rur thar ''1'1"'"11''"1 in prinL·iple didn't '·"'. llaL' 1\k ol Mary's baby. .\:"''."'"· Srcwan rdls us in his 
•···nHL"Iumn, was an area chat w..... rw11her hb, k nor white: a 
~'·" .. ;uca. Bw acn>rding to "'··w.ul. rhL· kdlrng of an erwmy .....~oi;n 111 was is mosr (ktin;tely ,..,, .1 · .,:r;l\·" area~ permissible h,·, .Hbt' u ~~ the most n>nveni­nu. tht· kast upsl·uing for the I'·'""'' 111\o>h-ed. "The most ';.rhk ''f'licln... 
.\....r.lu1g tLI Srewan, we are 
•·• '"l'l'""t' that a person is Ill·'" hum.1n if he or she is la...i.i;,.,j '"a rllT paddr than if a,· ,,, -;he ;,., huddled in a m.•flll.,·.., w.omh. To passively ......,., ·'" ;th.nti.nl, whik-con­,j "'"·"g rht· killing of a nvilian ·" .Ill\ .uhn \'iLrim of war, is . ''l'·"''hiL. 
.\u.i wli.u of kdling i1self? 
J> ....111n.1hh. Srewan wishes 
•··--••·.~<kl ·,., hdit·ve his aversi-· ;, •·• kdlu1g b derivnl from a an.•~. .. i.1w wlud1 'il<lles "Thou .. lt.tll "''' ktll · But is that not MJII' ..... t•IH' moral law which • • >~llm.w.l-, u,., 1o ··Love thy "...ghh..... -t·n·n if "rhy neigh­»-·•• · · r-.111 Alghan pea;;ant-­..m.l whrL h tell,., us thar rhe ~1e·.11, ...., ":tLrititt' a man can 11111,,1.,, " 1har ullus own lifr for .IMI·•• hn' 1-.. that moral law not · 

Dan Lawton 
1i1e same one embraced by the 
Ca1lwlic Church--a Church 
wlu.h has unconditionally con­
<kmrwdahonion~ 
· "i<~rncrrrnes, cowardice is lil(ll;tg('," Chris Srewarr tells tb. WnHlg. C.,urage mariifests ""'II 111 many ways. Standing 
upand d('nouncing what you h('i.l'V(' i-; wrong--war and the­clr.ttr. f.,, insrance--is one of il1nn. "l"aking the easy way ••ul ··,dl••rrion, for instance--is fll,,..,, cldlnircly not one of them. 
-.;,,I d,, n<H wish to engage in a d,·harc ahour the merits of the d•.il.l, nor do I wish w assault L:111.., Srcwarr about his refusal '" kl'i any obligation to a , , •Uill '>'in which he has lived all hi.., Ill(· wirh freedoms, rights, (111\·dl'gc-;, and advantages un­kne •wn to most other rnen. Bur I find morall>· irrewncilabk the po"'' I< Ills in two of his more n·•t·n• ,,,lumns: on the one h.uhl, Ius moral repulsion for kdl111g in war, and on the other, 111.., lu-.,-;•ng off of abortiJn as noll lung more than a grim ..,.,lulhlfl t•> a troublesome situ-1 ;111•>11. 
aste0 

Madonna Christensen states in her article that the draft of women would be "nothing short of barbaric." Let's be honest. The draft in general is barbaric, because the institu­tion of war is barbaric. But women should not denigrate themselves by demanding pro-fl·ction from such barbarism. The moral problems posed by war should confront us all equallr. We rnay well find that no one, male or female, should he drafred. Bur not on the grounds presented by Ms. Christensen. 
Let us examine those grounds. 
Ms. Christensen states rhat .. wumen simply do not perform as well, as dependably or as quickly as men in the services." 
!'his s1atcmenr can be finly contradicted by the most recent i-.su<.· of Newsweek, which slates that women in the volun­rcn army have proved "re­markably capable. "They place tllp in their clas.ses, and qualify l(or highly competitive posi­tilllls. They also "drink less, C<Hnmit fewer drug offenses, go AWOL less often and present kwer discipline problems." W•Hnt·ndo have a disadvantage in tnms of physical strength and endurance. But that be­cnmes much less of an issue as our~ killing power becomes more relined. The fact that we can now k111 multitudes without being anywhere in the neigh­borhOod may not say much for our moral development, but it 
does negate the argument that women are not physically 
Wednesday, February 27, 1980 -_page 6 · 

P.O. Box Q 
Ignorance, Apathy, 
orBlindObedience? 
DearEditor·: 

Afterlisteningtothefirstina 
series of speeches meant to 
inform us isolated, privileged, 
protected college students 
about the draft, I found myself 
nearly blind with rage at rny 
fellow students. 

Infrontofanaudienceof/ess 
than 150 people, Prof. Gaffney 
emphasized that there is a 
"thin line between registration 
and the draft." I felt helpless 
in the fact that there were so 
few people interested in such 
an important issue. So far no 
government official has called 
the threat of registration a 
hoax. So far, in the history of 
the U.S., there has never been 
a registration without a draft. I 
just wish everyone believed 
how close we are. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1111.., ga1ne I consider inexcu­s.thit·. I rTali1.e that they have a
Aw f H p •a1 
,.,,,11 j.,b I<> do--that is, to keep 

In a University with some of think it's time that each and thebestresourcesinthecount-every one of us sits down and ry, it's a shame that students evaluates our ideals and our appear so ignorant about the respect for human life. It's draft. We are supposed to be time to decide whether or not 
the young, i:he hope, the fresh registration is an invasion of ideasthatwillmaketheworlda those ideals. better place; a place where dreamswillcometrue. Yetwe Mary T. Link choose to be apathetic enough to let the government decide that it will send us away to kill 
Basketball Ushers : 

people who are just as young, 
just as fresh and who have just 
as many dreams as we have. 
Representatives

The lethargic attitude that I have encountered in the dining hall, in my classes, .and in my 
or Bouncers? 

dorm, reflects a frightening sense of blind obedience that /),',11' Liditor: could put some ofmy friends on the front line. We simply can't I am writing in regard to an be lazy about our situation. llllldcrll which Ol-curred ar the 
When I mention that I'm :"ooJ, '' rc Dame-Marquette basker­opposed to registration and the b.tll game concerning the con-draft and all my friends can dull of the ushers toward the think of to do is call me a ~ltldcrll budy. Tht·se men are Communist and grab my deli-supp••scdly representatives of cious dining hall "American rill'> Univcrsity, a Christian apple pie" from my plate, I Un1\crs11y, bur their actions at 
uman otentt Lui~ .,,f of the t:t>Urt to protect 
strong enough to kill. 
Ms. Christensen brings up 
several minor points related to 
the major one: incompetence. 
She states that "women prison­
ers of war would be subject to 
ordeals "even more horrible 
and degrading than those 
worked against men." If Ms. 
Christensen is speaking specifi­
cally of rape, she forgets that 
men can also be ra(Jed as 
POWs. Neither sex is ltkely to 
enjoy its prisoner status ro any 
great degree. Thus the capture 
of any citizen, regardless of 
sex, would put equal pressure 
on rhe government, contrary to 
another argument presented. 
Some of the o;u gumcnts, how­
ever, are valid. There IS a high 
rate of pregnancy in the armed 
s..:rvices, and women do miss 
more service days than men, 
probably because of menstrual 
difticulties. But these are not 
insurmountable issues. 
l'hese valid problems, linked 
tlll)ugh they mtsht be to sexual­ity, have little tn common with the charge that the presence of wnmen is ''distracting" and has a "corrosive effect on discipline and morale in the services.'' Men and women in rhe armed services are human beings, and thus, among other thing:-,sexual beings. They will probably be distracted by their sexuality no matter where they arl'. Part of the process of becoming an adult is learning to deal with the distraction of sexuality. But speak of its corrosive effect, as if death and destruction were not corrosive 
rl1t· p.uricipants in rhe game, as wt·il a-; to cJid the fans in finding 

MauraE. Glynn 
riH·fl scats--however, the things I w11 ncssed at rhe game kave ml' upscr, disgusted, and 

enough, is a little short-sighted. angr >.. 
l~qually shortsighted is. Ms. At halftime, as the NBC Christensen'sassessment of the a1 111,•uncns wn<.· on camera on emotional makeup of women. rilL' ce>Urt, a._group of students Women can be and have been g.uhnnl u/j .t.he. court with lea~e~s, in our own in many · "·l\'L' H•>tkcy stgns held a­socreues, as .even a cursory le1l r. The ushers proceeded to reading so readily accessible an '>ll.IIL h the signs from rhe 
aruhropologist as Margaret -;lutknts and physically push Mead should tell any one who lllt'lll awa>·· I even saw one cares to look. Women now. u-,hntakl'aswingatoneofthe 
,,,urpypositions of leadership in ..,iudt·nts. the volunteer armed services, Thl' secund incidl·nt I witnes­and the complaints have been ..,,·,I c. 111ccrned a friend of mirle. tew and far between. As for the Wirh sevt:ral seconds remain-claim that women are "modest, 111g in the gam<:, he left his seat gentle and fastidious" --it is .111.! s1.1rted out the exit runnel absurd to compartmentalize 1111 1ilc tluor in front of the these human qualities and dis--.;llfdl'rll section. As he walked tribute them to one or another aw.l\·, he sropped to glance ar sex. rlw s,e,rchuard. Presently, an 
h becomes apparent from a LhiiL'I walked up to him and close reading of Ms. Christen-,.,11.,u1L·d, "(~ct the hell our of sen's article that she is guilty of lw1L·· and slugged him across misunderstanding and under-tile L1cc wirh a rolled up estimating her own sex. Wo-pro~grarn. As my friend turned men have much more to give ;u.1t111d ro walk away, the usher than has been demanded of ptllll hl'll him squarely in the them by the traditional role of b.1. k. "full-time mothers and home-I Lflll'Stlon whether the use of makers." If women are ever to f,,., .. was necessary in the give what they are capable of pt·• f,mnance of this usher's job . giving, they must be relieved of· I ddini~<.·ly fed that his was not the burden of carrying the :a )ll'>llilcd action, partrcularly American family singlehanded-,·.unrng fmm a rnan who sup­ly into the future. They must P''""~lly represents this Chris-not refrain from doing and r1.111 lllStrtunon . daring simply because it has In c•HIL'Iusion, I feel that never been done before. lllc..,t· incidents are syrnptorna-
The waste of human potential, "' o( the condi.rion now being whether through warfare or w11kly recognized on this earn­want of use is a horrible thing. pth· ., hat is, that this University We should strive to eliminate d,L . .., neH cart· fur its students as both of these evils, not con-human beings. demn ourselves to wastage while trying to avoid the draft. 
Pat Gunning 

as objectively as possibk. Editorials Editor-in-chief ........Rosemary Mills represent the opiruon of a majority of Managing Editor..........Diane Wilson &x Q Notu Datse, IN 46JJ6 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonal Editor .............. Ann Gales opinions and letters ace the views of Senior Copy Editor ......... M. Onufrak ,. The Obsen~er is an inckpendent their authors. Column space is :!Vail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis arwspaper publishtd by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor .... ................ Mark Rust Jthe University of Notre Dame dulac and the free expcc-ssion of varying News Editor ... ..............Mike Shields
f 
31ld Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC Executive Editor ..... Ellen BuddY. necessarily rdkct the policies of the encouraged. SMC News Editor ........ Margie Brass1l Sports Editor ..................Mack Perry Features Editor.. ...Kathleen Connelly Photo Editor ....... .......Doug Christian 
Business Manager ........Steve Odland Production Manager .......Tim Sullivan Advertisi11g Manager .........Bob Rudy Controller............... ...Kevin Manion Circulatio11 Manager......Greg Hedges 

administration of eithtt institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accuratdy and
-TheObserver_ 
. -.......... ... 
. -..... _.,. -· .. ­
~ 
. · .. 

-~ 



The Irish Extra TH!; FIGHTING .IRISH an Observer sports supplement 
ACC hosts anOther showdown 
Top-ranked Blue Demons take on 14th-ranked Irish 
s.Jjl/}1)/11.0/"t! 
plh'llum Afark :\gtarre .wd the rL''' u/the 
/•J/1 r.lnked Blue 
/),·mrms soar 1111u tht: ACC 
I•JIItgbl for their 
f.J/Ig .tw.ttled d.td' w11h the Jl;p,/11/t/g Irish. 
by Bzi/ Marquard !'>ports Writer 
The stage is set for anqther classic confrontation in South Bend. It's a script that the Irish faithful have heard and relished so many times before. You know, number one ranked, often­times undefeated team charges into the J\C~, ripe to continue their 
wmnmg ways. 
This time the DePaul Blue Demons, the acknowledged number one basket­ball team in the land since January 14, invade the ACC with visions of exte~?dil!'g _their 26-g~me winni~g skem whtch began m last year s Final Four consolation game. The Demons sport an unblemished 25-0 mark on this campaign, but have had their problems along the way. They have only won nine of their 25 games by more than 11 points, and they had close calls against Northern Illinois (57-55 in overtime) and Dayton (65-63), a game they were losing by 15 points at one time. The Irish sport a 20-5 slate for the year, including Sunday afternoon's dis­heartening loss to Marquette, a team which DePaul upended, 92-85, in mid-J anu­ary. The Irish are 3-1 against DePaul and Notre Dame's other four common oppon­
ents, having lost, 62-60, to the same LaSalle team that DePaul beat, 92-75, a week ago. 
"We definitelylook at the Notre Dame game differently than we look at any other,'' remarks Demon captain Clyde Bradshaw. "This will probably be our big­gest game of the year. I just hope that people don't think we are coming into 
South Bend taking Notre Dame lightly:..­this game is more important than any 01her one we've played so far." 
13raJshaw, a junior, is the tearri's quarterback on the floor. The six-foot .guard is averaging lO points a game while managing 4.5 rebounds per contest. Be also leads the squad with almost eight assists per game. · 
13raJshaw will team with sophomore Skip Dillard in the Demon backcourt. The stx-t~mt-two Dillard replaces DePaul star and Irish nemesis Gary Garland, a high sdwol teammate of Bradshaw, and is averaging 12.4 points per game, with 74 assists on the year. 
The top freshman scorer in the nation last year, six-foot-seven sophomore Mark Aguirre has lived up to everyone's expectations, and then some. An honorable-mention All-American selection last year, the Chicago native is scoring at a 26.5 _clip, and grabbi~g 7.7 rebounds per game, prompting many to compare hun to Insh legend Adram Dantley. · 

by Paul Mullaney . Assistant Sports Editor 
It's 20 minutes after three-o'clock on a Tuesday afternoon, and basketball practice doesn't start for another 40 minutes. But Tim Healy already it toeing the free throw line, practicing his foul shooting, in an otherwise empty arena. 
Healy, a senior walk-on guard, is just happy doing what he's doing. ''Hey, when I got out ofhigh school, I thought my playing days were over," 
shrugs the graduate of Fort Lauder­dale's Cardinal Gibbons High School. 
"I came to Notre Dame and tried out for the team with nothing to lose. I was going to get out of this only what I was going to put into it." 
Whtch would lead observers to be skeptical, since the fourth-year player has scored only 11 points while seemg minimal action in 15 of Notre Dame's 25 games. 
Aguirre's forecourt, partner is freshman Terry Cummings. The 220-pound forward is second on the team with a 13.9 scoring mean, and paces the high-flying Demons with 9.6 rebounds. 
At this point, Jim Mitchem is the· probable starter at center. The six-foot-nine captain broke two bones in his left hand yesterday morning, but didn't seem to be overly hampered in practice at the ACC last night. Should the senior center be lost to the Demons, his 8.1 scoring and 6.1 rebounding averages would be sorely missed. . 
Top substitute and possible starter in Mitchem's absence is Teddy Grubbs, a 6-8 freshman. Grubbs has managed 7.9 points and 4. 7 rebounds off the bench this season. 
'·I think Notre Dame and our team match up well,'' comments DePaul head coach Ray Meyer, now in his 38th year at the Demon helm. ''The only teams that have been able to hurt us this year are those that are good in a trans­ition game-we don't get back on defense to pick up our men in time." 
"I know we'll play intense-it's almost a toss-up at this point." 
Irish coach Digger Phelps echoes his adversary's sentiments. "The DePaul game should be very emotional,'' he says. '·DePaul is coming in riding high on their ranking, bur I know they will be ready for us-and I know we will be 
· ready for them.'' ; Notre Dame will counter the Blue ' Demons with the regular starting unit, I which has only played together 13 
times this season due to a variety of injuries and ailments. Senior captains Rich Branning and Bill Hanzlik will team in the backcourttor the 14th­ranked Irish. The six-foot-three Branning is averaging 12.3 points per game while dishing out assists at a 3.2 clip. The six-foot-seven Hanzlik is averaging 7.7 points and 3.2 rebounds per game. 
Although not considered a dunking ·threat, Rich Branning wr/1/ead his Insh teammates to the hoop tonight as they 
hope to headoff the unbeaten Blue Demons. 

Forecourt stalwarts Kelly Tripucka and Tracy Jackson will team up to stop DePaul's high-scoring forward duo. Tripucka paces the Irish with a 17.1 scoring ·average, while Jackson averages 14.7. Jackson leads the team in rebounding with 
a 6.8 mark, while Tripucka is close behind at 6. 7. Junior center Orlando Woolridge rounds out the Irish lineup. The Mansfield, La., native averages 12 points per game, while clearing the boards at a 6.6 clip. 
"The biggest asset ·Notre Dame has is their versatility," relates DePaul assistant coach Joey Meyer. "They have a very quick team, but they can pull the horses off the bench and become a power team as well. They can turn into any type of team they want to be just by adjusting their personnel." 
fcontinued on page 10] 

Scholar Healy concludes home career 
''At the end of my freshman year I accepted the fact that I wasn't going to by playing much," Healy notes. "The overall experience, though, has been an education in itself. I've gotten to deal with all kinds of peoi?le-players, alumni, national televiston and, of course, got to go to the Final Four two years ago." 
It would seem, however, that Healy would have a difficult task finding enough time in a day. Besides spending at least three hours a day playing basketball-and that doesn't count time spent on the road-he must give adequate time to his eosition as a residence assistant in Dtllon Hall. That is, nonetheless, in addition to attending class and putting in enough time to keep up his current distinction as a Dean's List student in the College of Business Administration. 
"You just have to make time for y_ourself,'' insists the marketing major. "I really don't mind it at all. I keeps me. busy. • 
"This is a great preparation for law school. Responsiblity and leadership are involved in all these different activities. I find myself dealing with all kinds of situations and people, from the administration right down to the 'derelicts' in Dillon Hall." 
"And; oh, by being an RA, I get free room and board. You can't argue with that.'' 
And Digger Phelps, Healy's coach, can't argue with the walk-on's contributions over the last four years. 
"He has earned the respect of every player, hands down," cttes Phelps. "It doesn't make any difference if he's playing or sitting, because he's still givmg 100 percent. I can't ask for much more than that. 
''In fact, I wouldn't hesitate a bit to callhim the most dedicated student­athlete playing the role of the walk-
on.'' 
Healy, who was voted the most valuable player the blue team by his 

on page9] 
• 


r r r 
r 
r r ~ 
r 
r 
r 
r r r 
1be Irish Extra Wednesday, February 27, 1980 -page 8 
Aguirre supplie$ the firepower . • • 
by Gary Grassey Sports Writer 
CHICAGO -One would never know it hy looking at him. His rounded counten­ance and chunky frame are more reminis­cent of the little fat kid down the block ­the one who always was elected catcher on the neighborhood baseball team. 
Then again, at six-foot-seven, 245 pounds, Mark Aguirre would appear to be quite useful on anybody 's offensive line as well. · 
But his game is basketball, and in any couch's book, Mark Aguirre is a dream come true. He can win basketball games in so muny ways. 
Aguirre's inside game is reference material for any basketball clinic or textbook. He can score with his soft base/me jumpers as easz(y as he turns fast breaks into slam dunks. He is the man at the head ofDePaul's full-court press, and he rebounds with a vengeance. 
Two years ago, Mark Aguirre left recruiters aghast when he decided to remain in his hometown and attend DePaul. Ever since, his presence on the court has meant everything to coach Ray Meyer-everything that Earvin Johnson and Larry Bird meant to the revival of basketball at their alma roarers. 
"That's just what he is," comments Notre Dame coach Dig~er Phelps, "a Magic Johnson, a Larry B1rd -Aguirre is number three." 
Assistant Blue Demon coachJoey Meyer asserts, "I don't think you can really ever ov~remphasize what he's (A~uirre) done;." Wnh a reference to DePaul's graduatmg class of 1978 -which took the Demons to· the finals of the Midwest Regional -Ray Meyer's son remembers, "Everybody thought we were through when wt: lost (Dave) Corzine, Uoe) Ponsetto, and Randy 
Ramsey. But we bring in one kid and he fills the gap of a Corzine, Ponsetto, and Ramsey.'' 
That one kid -with the rear end rhar is an axe handle wider than AI McGuire gives him credit for -stepped out of Westing­house High School into a DePaul uniform and proceeded to bring a team IntO the thick of a national championship race. As a freshman, Aguirre pumped in 24 poinrs a game. leading the Blue Demons in sc~ring 22 out of their 32 ~.:ontests. And, riding Aguirre's powerful tournamem perform­ann·, DePaul came within an eyelash of upsetting h1diana State in the Final Four. 
Leading the team again this year, Aguirre seems· to be able to score at will. He has that ran~ ability to control a game all hy himself. When DePaul needs a bucket. it is Aguirre posting his defender and calling for the ball; it is Aguirre plowing through zone defenses, clutching the ball with his massive hands, and driving to the h,.!e. Aguirre makes DePaul go. 
Opposing coaches marvel at the grace and fluid movements of a man so large. As tough as he is to stop on an ordinary night, the difficulties Agutrre presents are com­pounded by the fact that he saves his best games for the big games. 
"The majority of my good games come on the road," explains Aguirre. "These people have heard and read about me, so I like to show them what they've been hearing." 
When the game takes on the added importance of a confrontation like the one tonight, Aguirre makes his presence felt from the opening tip. "You know when there's a big game," he claims. "You gorta get up, you gotta play defense, you gorta rebound. I just take it upon myself to get the things done that gotta be done." 
"Mark will play well against Notre Dame and those teams," says the elder Meyer. "He rarely plays well against other reams." 
"Hey, when it's time to play defense, I really concentrate on defense, rebounding, and things like chat,'' adds Aguirre confidently. "When I have to score, I'll try to do that, too." 
Aguirre's ability to step into the college ranks and quickly develop into a star has immensely helped the transition of De­Paul's six-foot-nine bookends, Terry Cum­mings and Teddy Grubbs, who are also Chicago natives. Cummings feels that "it helped to see a'hother person right out of high school go right into college and do good his freshman year. 

"Like Mark says, not that we want to be another, or the next, Mark Aguirre, but we learned we could come in right away and just start playing our game." 
Cummings arrived in fine fashion, leading DePaul in rebounding and scoring at a pace second only to Aguirre. Grubbs, meanwhile, has been effective as Meyer's sixth man -despite being hampered by injuries -evidenced by his 28-point performance in the win over UCLA. 
Aguirre, although he comes across as a sometimes brooding personality -assis­tant coach Ken Sarubbi concedes that emotionally, "he might be the toughest to handle" -the giant sophomore has recently gotten his mind back to enjoying basketball. In early January he threatened to stop attending class. 
''Mark's whole attitude has taken a 360-degree turn," relates Ray Meyer, referring to the days DePaul first ascended to the nation's top spot in the polls. "Before, I thought the pressure (media anention) was getting to him. He was real sour -moanmg in practice. Now, he practices like hell!'' 
His 40 and 41-poim games against LaSalle and Loyola last week mean he's playing that way, too. 
Nevertheless, Aguirre will have rewrit­ten DePaul's record books before he leaves the school. Feelers from pro scouts and agents have already begun to make their way to the youngster who turned around DePaul basketball. However, the thought of leaving college for life in the NBA doesn't have Aguirre that excited -at least for now. 
"I think college is a plac:e where basketball can be very enjoyable," he says. "You know. doing your best to try to win. being in the NCAA's -it's just excellent, and I'm having fun." 
"He's vaulted us into a national pro­gram," says recruiting coordinaror Joey Meyer. "He's not the only one who's done ir. but I think he's the extra ingredient." 
Joey and his father. "Coach Ray," will forever speak reverently of the day Mark Aguirre came to DePaul and gave added credence to their basketball program. Mark Aguirre has made this school a winner for a long time to come. 
.while Bradshaw ignites thefuse
' ' 
by Bill Marquard Sports Wruer 

CHICAGO -Clyde Bradshaw is the antithesis of Mark Aguirre. As quiet and reserved as his teammate is boisterous, the junior Bradshaw is the leader and tactician of the DePaul Demons, who somehow manages to blend his squad's diverse talents and personalities into one cohesive unit on the floor. 
Bradshaw's statistics do almost enough talking for the six-foot guard --195 assists (7.8 per game), a 10.0 scoring average and 113 rebounds from his hackcourt position. 
Yet the facts on paper tell only a part of the story, as DePaul assistant 

.: .., 


Slam 
coach Joey Meyer is quick to point out: "Obviously, Clyde runs the show. He keys our fastbreak, hand­ling the ball in the middle, and he starts a lot of breaks because of his steals. 
"Now that Gary Garland is gone, Clyde has complete control. He cannot relax. He has to be the leader for a full 40 minutes. Clyde is an integral part of the team at both ends of the floor.'' 
Demon head coach Ray Meyer is eqyally laudatory of Bradshaw's in­fluence and role. "He comes to play every day. Clyde may have a bad night every now and then, but it wasn't because he dido't try." 
"Clyde Bradshaw is a winner from the word go. He's a great athlete and a super individual. When Mark (Aguirre) goes out of the game, the responsibility falls squarely on Clyde's shoulders." 
Bradshaw has been, indeed, a winner. The Blue Demons are 78-9 so far in the three seasons Bradshaw has played there. Added to his high school totals, the East Orange, NJ High School product sports a glim­mering 160-18 career record. 
But Bradshaw was virtually over­looked when national recruiters har­vested the crop of perennial stand­outs from that area. Some thought he was too small and others thought that he just could not make it in the big leagues. The only schools to express 
an Interest in the teenage Bradshaw 
were Belmont Abbey and DePaul. 
Now, as a battle-tested college junior, Bradshaw regards his role on the team with the savvy ofa seasoned veteran. ''The key to our game is systematically executing our offense. You can't just get out there and play and expect to win. My job is to make sure that we set up and execute that offense properly." ''Clyde IS the cog in the wheel of our game," explained Aguirre. "I couldn't do a lot ofthe things I do if it weren't for Clyde's penetration and passes. Bes1des that, he is an offensive threat in himself.'' 
"We probably would have lost six or seven games this year without 
h.
tm. " 
Coach Meyer also remembers se­veral games where Clyde's level­headed heroics saved DePaul from losses. 
''The Dayton game is a perfect example·," remarked the 66-year-old mentor. "When I called ume out (with about 20 seconds left and the score tied at 63), I told everyone to get the ball to Clyde with ten seconds, and told him to go at eight. He went with eight, just like I said and hit the winning bucket.'' 
Bradshaw performed the same feat against Creighton two years ago, and when the Blue Demons were down by ten points with ten minutes left 
·rconlint~ed on page 9] 
--~-­

--·---------------...,~
.-:-.,....,.-~-----­
TheIrishExtra Wednesday, February 27, 1980 -page 9·· 
j 

Ray Meyer makes DePaul his life 
by Gary Grassey Sports Writer 

CHICAGO-The trophies, plaques, and various other kudos that now sit on the table in front of Ray Meyer's desk and hang from the wall of his office are just gravy. These past two seasons, Ray Meyer has had more invitations to awards banquets than most Hollywood '$Iars. Coach of the Year, Sports Fat her of the Year, Giant Among C laches Award, induction into the Hall of Fame, and the Notre Dame National Monogram Man of ·the Y('ar-he's won them all. 
lr's oaken a long time for people to norJce:: a man who has only won 622 ba,.,kerball games during his 38 years a1 DePaul. He has made the game his Ide. and while passing up jobs with moHC prestige and more money, Ray Me) er· has made DePaul his life as well 
I· r()[n George Mikan d.,wn to Ray.'s ..;.Jns, T.,m and Joey, who starr~d unJn their father in the sixties and t'a1ly seventies, to Gary Garland a~d Mark Ayuirre, DePaul basketball IS ··c,ach' ·. Ray Meyer is a born anp bred Chi-.:agoan, and he has devote~ all Ius energies tow<~.rds teachin$ ,.,,ung men a little bit about disciplin¢ .md winning and losing. 
A~ he struts onlo the floor at Alumni 
IIall in his pracl ice gear, Ray Meyer 
luob like 3..{lythmg but a basketball 
cualll. His waddling gait and aged 
t'earures display all the wear and tear 
llf )H years on 
the sidelines. 

'We are not worriedabout our 
· When he speaks, though, his players respond as if the quartermaster has just cracked his whiP'. The strain and pressure of being number one is abar'ldoncd as Meyer blows up at a lackadaisical pass by Clyde Bradshaw and a missed assignment by Teddy Gruobs. He would have treated Mik~n, his sons, or any of his other ballplayers the same way. 
And they love him for it. "We just l•>ve Coach around here," says one fan befork DePaul's game with Butler 10 days '\!go. · 
Another Blue Demon diehard moans, ' I'm !Sick and tired of hearing God made number one. Ray Meyer made DePau•l number one, and he's. the closest thing to God we've got." 
"Coach is something special," adds Meyer's prize player, Mark Aquirre. "I'd st.~re like to win it (the national championship) for him.'' 
In this season of the unblemished rec,,rJ and the top ratings, Meyer has come rhrnugh ir all with a simple pililosuphv rhar comes easily to a man of lw.; experience."You're always a good coach when you win,'' he claims. 
··1 can't even answer the letters anymore. They're fine, bur all this number one stuff has done is take me away from the team more than 
I'd like ... "I just really respect him," Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps comments. ··1 think the article in Sports I//u.\lrated said it best when it wlked 

a.bout his son Joey staying on at I)cPaul (after his playing days) to help 
. recruiting because he wanted Ray to go out a winner. That's the kind of man Ray Meyer is.'' Through the maze of correspondence and the crush for interviews, Meyer makes time, for everrone he can possibly squeeze in. He still makes it r., his favorite re.~taurant for a bite with 1 he team and a mument with the locals who have known Ray Meyer siQce the. lean yeari of DePaul basketball. ·.,. ve had plenty of lucrative offers to kave here," remarks Coach. "But I don't like to change. I'm very happy where I am.·' Clach, they're all glad 
to have you. 
... Healy 
1fcontinued from page 
teammates last year, also hold the ·.distinction ofbeing Notre Dame's first 1walk-on to ever play the varsity sport 
for all four years of his education, and honor which he considers "quite a neat record.'' 1j It's small accomplishments like that which mean quite a lot to Healy­.1moments like a year ago when the Irish traveled down South to play Davidson. 
"I'II never forget that," Healy smiles. "That's where I scord my G~ll-time career high!> of seven points and four rebounds. 
''The funny thing was, when I came into the game, John Gerdy, their best 'player, was guarding me for some reason. How could they do that to me? 
"But even worse, I was only three­for-six form the foul line," he adds. ''And that included missing the front end of a one-and-one. ] ust think, I could have had 11 points." 
It would rake crippling injuries to all· five Irish starters or a similar Act of God for Healy to surpass that career high in tonight's · game with the top-ranked Blue Demons, the last home contest of this Irish career. But 
, this hardly marks the end of his 'basketball days. There's still Bookstore. ''I was really disappointed about 
.missing last year's tournament," he says. The NCAA barred all varsity underclassment from the spring , classic on the grounds that the 
·playground-like tourney was organized competition outside the NCAA. "Now I've had two years to get ready for this. Our team could be awesome, 
Who knows. Maybe he could score eight points. 
The Irish Extra Editedby Mark Perry and Paul Mullaney 
Contributingstaff: Bill Marquard , Gary Grassey Mike Ortman Dan Tarullo 
Photography Bill Marquard and Doug Christian 

winningstreak; we 're here to play basketball.' 
--Ray Meyer 
• 

'We won 't prepare any differently for Notre Dame; we 'll prepare to be normal. ' --Joe Meyer 
This is thegame is college. basketball this year. It should be a classic.' --Mark Aguirre 
We look at thisgame more· importantly than any other we'veplayed this year.'. 
-ClydeBradshaw 

[continued from page 8] 
against Oral Roberts last year, 
Bradshaw knew it was his turn again. 
''Clyde had three or four quick 
steals," remembered Meyer with a 
grin. ''When I looked at the clock 
with seven minutes left, we were up 
by eight. 
"He's a ballplayer." 
Always cool under pressure, Brad­
shaw can stand back and analyze the 
situation surroq.nding the top-ranked 
Demons. 
''There is not as much pressure 
now, as there was when we first · 
became No. 1" said Bradshaw. 
"There have been a lot of'changes-­
we have calmed down from there to 
where we are playing our regular 
game." 
The hype seems to be as much a 
function of the area as it is a result of 
the team's performance. ''I guess 
the publicity would be the same 
anywhere where there hasn't been a 
winner in so long. These people have 
been waiting for a Ions time because 
no one's been doi_n~ it tn past ye~·-" 
Yet all the pubhctty can have 1ts ill 
effects, particularly when one wants to get away from things for awhile . Never one to complain, Bradshaw accepts it as part of the job. 
"Wherever you go in Chicago, people recognize you. It's hard to get away from it, so you just have to learn to deal with the entire situation." 
Living on campus with the rest _of the team, Bradshaw is secluded from some of the media hype and, since the on-campus student enrollment is so small, he is also more isolated from student psyche. 
"It is not as rowdy getting ready for a game here like it would be at Notre Dame with your large student body. We're mostly a commuter school so it's different." 
Chicago is also a far cry from his native New Jersey. -. · ''There seem to he more opportuni­ties here, business opportunities and just chances to meet peorle. My area 
of New ] ersey is. also  a  lot  more  
indu~trial.''  
Without  veteran  backcourt  mate  

Gary Garland. who attended the same 
...BradshaW 
East Orange high school, Bradshaw is aware of the deficiencies that the team must work on in his ~Gar­
land's) absence. 
"Last year we were a great defen­sive team. This year we are not that 5rear defensively because we have 
new players and they don't know yet when to make certain moves. Last year Gary and I ·always worked off each other. We knew what the other ­was doing. Right now we are working as well as we can.'' 
When conversation inevitably turns to tonight's showdown, Bradshaw sums up the importance with which his teammates regard the game. 
''We definitely fook at Notre Dame differently thao anyone else. It'll probably be our biggest game of the ·year. I just hope that people don't think we are coming down to South Bend overlooking your team. We consider the Notre Dame game to be more important than any other game we've played this year." 
The stage is set. Clyde Bradshaw 
has s~oken. · · 

-----------------------·----·-­
~.. . .....,jl 
.·•• .. • Jd +~·.1 


The Irish Extra Wednesday, February 27, 1980-page 10 
ND upsets: moments to be savored 
'!ll' amat.ing UCLA Bruins, coached by rhe Wizard <H \Vestw,o~od . .J•1hn Wooden, were sirring at the top ,,, th·: world. With seven straight NCAA rides, 88 
straight  wins,  and  a  redheaded  center  named  
Wahun.  UCLA  threat ened  to  dominate  college  
b;t:·ketb:tll fnrever.  

dn).tnuar) l'J, \')74, the top-ranked Bruins came t" St~uth Bend to face the Frghring Irish of Notre D.tllle, also •J:ldefe;~red rhar season and ranked st·,·~>tHl in the u.Jur.rrr. For most of the day ir seemed ltkt the Uclans would walk away wirh win number H·•. Atune p•1int they led by 17, and held a 70-59 m.trg:n ll\l'r rl•e Irish with 3:22 left in the game. 
tlut t·vt·p :'-Japt•leon had his Waterloo., and for UCLA 11 w:h Nutrt· Dame. 
I k gtnning w1tlo ~ basket by center John Shumate '" ,., btg. bad Bdl Walton, thf' Irish mounted a tdtt••u:-. u•meback that even stu'lned the capacity ·,w.J at tlte ACC. 
i'i w I 2 s1 ra1ghr points by Norre Dame are just a blur '·' till 11'111d. I only know that Dwight Clay hir rhar · tg Jllmpcr with 2') seC\Inds left because I read .I!J.>lll I( el'l'l'}' rear in the Notre Dame press guide. \\hat I J., recall i-; the flurry of shots by UCLA rhar '""I w.,uJdn'r fall, John Shumate grabbing rhar final rt·h .. uttd an.! hurling the ball into rhe air as hard as Ill' c"uld. I'm still wondering if it ever came down. .\ihl wh.11 I rcmembn m•>St of all is the mob scene 1''·" tullownl. Thous;;nds of fans running onto rhe , •.t. 1 ro had their con4uering heroes. The curring '""'" ,,t the nels, and the chant of "We're Number 
dill'! 
\nd when I carne to Notre Dame in 1976, I couldn't 
w.111 t, enter that madhouse called rhe Art>leric and (~.,11\olt alltltl Center. 
llu1 rih.· I'J'l6-77 season was rather dull by Notre D.lrnt ..;tandards. The Irish even losr to UCLA for the 111 ... 1 t11ne sirKt' llJ73. Something was definitely wn111g here. 
t·:,Hn the San franusco Dons. Paced by a talented ,,·tttt't named Bill Canwright. USF shocked every­otiC by w1nning irs first-29 games, and suddenly f,,lltld that it was ranked number one. 
.\nd what seemed like a meaningless game when W(' gut our basketball ticker in the fall had turned ttHo<tnentire seaslJn for the students of Notre Dame. 
~ .. tlil March I, 1lJ77, the ACC was rocking again. Spur rc,l on by a spirited pep rally the night before, rite ..;llf,lent!'> arrived a half hour before the game. 
.\nd then the chant began. · ·2'J and I! 2lJ and I!" l'lte SlTile was awesome. The same group of people 
who wuldn' t clap together while the Victory March w.t:-. playmg during the football season were trans!urmed into a solid unit. Thousands of hands r;used in unison with the single index finger cxtL'Iltkd, predicting rhe upcoming USF loss. 
l'he Dons came onto the court, and rhe chant l<IIHinued, this time with increased intensity. '1>1gger Phdps made his entrance, and rhe noise level was dee~fening. Satisfied with rhar rhe crowd 
Mark 
Perry 


had reached its proper pitch, Phelps waved his playns in. The Dons, standing ar rhe student end, wne submerged in a sea of toilet papers and sr reamers. 
Cartwright and teammate)ames Hardy just stood rltne watching. Their mouths hung open in d1shclief. 
l'he stage was ser for another Irish win. 
l.1ke the UCLA of 1974, rhe rest of the evening is unl>· a blur. Luoking at the summary of the game, I sl't' that the Dons even led for parr of the first half, bur as f;tr a.s we were concerned, rhe outcome was ncH'I' in doubt. 
t'lte Irish outscored USF, 11-2, in one stretch ofthe sL'ltlltd half to gain the lead, and you couldn't hear >·"ursclf think. The student body wasn't about to let rite Duns regain their composure. 
\'V'ir h ahuut two minutes left, the students beg<?n worktng their way to courtside. Our moment haft f11tally· arrived, where we got to run onto rhe court .ltld act l1k(' idiots before a n:'tional television audiL'tlll'. 
lhu when the moment finally came, I began ro W•lltdn why I was even there. We didn · t have any real reasun to be out on that court. It was just Sllllletlting we saw other students do on TV a few y< ars agt>, so we figured we had to do it. 
But it was a lor more than that. Ken Dryden, br latkasting the United States hockey games over rlw weekend, finally helped realize why I was s1anding out rhne making a fool of myself. 
I 
[continued from page 7] 

On the other hand, DePaul's system is nor toughI•' d1scern as Meyer readily admits. 
·'I ~veryune knows what we do,'' comments Meyer, the son of head coach Ray. "But if they take llne thing away from us, we can hurt them with ,tn<llhcr part of our offense. · . 
· · l'he only thing we will do in practice is prepare to be nurrnal-we' II do what we do all the time and rry t11 stay i'n our groove." 
r\nd ::.ray rwrmal they have. Ray Meyer, a 1938 graduate of Nurre Dame, has nqt resorted to any of the gimmicks he has employed in the past to prepare f, •r NtH re Dame in practice. The 66-year-old mentor u...nl tu wave plaid sporrcoats in front of his players 
.'vloments like these seldom happen more than once in a lifetime. At Notre Dame, there has been plenty t>f excitement over the past four years, bur nothing Gill compare to rhar first experience. Our presence on that court was what Dryden called "savoring the moment," trying to keep rhar warm feeling inside you fi>rever. We were living a dream, and we just dtdn'r want it to end. 
Bur I wasn't enurely happy with just the memory of the San Franusco game. Walking out of rhe ACC, I nuticed a rowel lying on the court. It was covering w11 h analgesic and who knows what else, bur ir was the rlt>sest thing avail.tble so I grabbed ir. 
l.o1oKing at that towel today, with the score of the gam(' embroidered on it by my mother, the sound of the t:lteers and rhe glory of that moment come back t•• m<, and I smile and feel good inside. The dream JtVe:-. .Ill, 
l'ollt.ght another undefeated, top-ranked team visits rItt· A~~C. Some people may regard ir as just another b.hkct ball game, bur if everything works our right, it m.ty be a rnomt·IH you can cherish for the rest of your ltll'. 
,iet t te needle and thread ready, Mom. I may have .utoth. r towi:l for you soon. 
· 'DePaul can be DePaul; Marquette can be Marquette; this is ourchance to be Notre Dame.' --Digger Phelps 
'This is the nationalchampionship in Notre Dame 'sown backyard. ' --Rich Branning 
, , , Showdown 

wluk they shot free throws, and even played loud rnthtc in the gym at home to prepare for rhe hostile N"1re Dame crowds. 
Uur this year is different. "I don't think our boys will be bllthered," says Meyer. "They come from llllter-L it y schools, where they pack 5,000 into a gym that sh~·uld seat 1,000, and they are all screaming. 
''In fal'!, rhe only reason we !=arne down the day bl'foll'l' the game was to practice. I planned on Lllllllllg here Wednesday afternoon, bur rhe players a.... knl if we could come early to get a feel for rhe 
gym ... i\gu11re is not concerned about playing at rhe ACC culler. "I am luokrng forward to rh1s game-I~an't waH t.'J play hne. This is the game in college ba,kethall rhis year. It should be a classic." 
Branning, Hanzlik : Three years later 
I first mer Bill Hanzlik and Rich Branning when the 
three of us were freshmen. In fact, the first two 
articles I ever wrote for this paper were about 
Branning and Hanzlik... 
Hut don't hold ~hat against rhem. · 
In any case, what starred as simple interviews 
became, ar least for me, some pretty important 
friendships. Bur I probably shouldn't say rhar, huh? 
Sports 'Vrirers and jocks aren't supposed to be 
tnends--something about maintaining objectivity, I 
think. Bur I wasn't worried about rhar rhen. As a 
matter of fact, I'm nor rhar concerned about ir now, 
so what the hell. 
I must admit, though, I was pretty intimidated by 
our firs! encounter. It was in January, 1977, when I 
knocked ar the door of 29 Pangborn Hall, primed to 
show the world what I thought were Pulitzer-Prize 
worthy talents. 
"Come on in," Hanzlik shouted, so I opened rhe 
door. ra(her gingerly. Hanzlik was at his desk 
studying, which was a pretty commonplace pose for 
him as I was ro discover. Branning, on the other 
hand, was sprawled on the borrom bu·1k, clad in 
nothing bur pink flowered tennis shorts, with a 
phone under his ear--also a pretty commonplace 
pOiie. I wasn't sure what to make of him. I mean, I 
knew he was from California, but ten 1is shorts in January? In South Bend??!! 
Since I intended ro interview Branning, Hanzlik politely offered to leave rhe room. Branning gave me rhe high-sign that he'd be iusr a "minute" on the phone. 
A half-hour later he hung up. Usual amenities followed and I raped the 20-mmure interview on a 
Frank LaGrotta 


borrowed recorder. When I had asked my last question, we talked abo•.H things apart from basketball, and I wound up staying until one A.M. 
Two days later, I went ba :k to 29 Pangborn, this rime ro interview Hanzlik. ~ nterviews for me were a big de'll then and I carried rhar borrowed rape recorder with me everywhere I went. That night the same process ensued and Hanzlik and I talked for a long ume after I'd rurned the recorder off. 
Both features were published. In fact, Branning's was printed on rhe Friday that classes were cancelled because of snow (Remember it seniors?). Well, neither article was very good and about the only bit of information readers learned from them was rhar Branning and Hanzlik, though look-alikes from rhe. far reaches of the bleacher seats, were not related. 
Since then, The Observer has gorren quite a few miles.out of me and this old typewriter. ·Yet, for the most part, I've refrained from writing about either Branning or Hanzlik for, I guess, rhe reason I mentioned earlier. 
This year, however, I did break down and do a piece on Branning for rhe UCLA basketball program and last Friday's column on Hanzlik and Rutch Lee. Now one thing they warn against in journalism classes 
.. 

and all those ''How to be Woodward or Bernsrein'' 
manuals is writing about people you have a personal 
interest in. And for three years I listened ro their 
warning. Bur I finally realized that I'll never get to 
heaven on my objecrvity so, on rhe occasion of our 
last home basketball game, I'm ending up where I 
started out. ' 
Sometimes being an "unbiased reporter" seems cold and impersonal. Bur the job is always fair and ir gives the writer two clear choices: either make friends and keep rhe cap on your pen, or write about everyone and miss our on gerung ro know some really great people. 
I have immensely enjoyed my relationships with Rich Branning and Bill Hanzlik both on and off rhe court. The character you see during the basketball game is the personality you find in the library, in the dining hall or sitting in the Huddle wondering how the hell anyone can eat so much and stay so thin. 
Sometimes this Sports World becomes so jaded by cynics and critics and long-haired high-brows who find little redeeming value in rhe game. Then again there are the opposite extremists who spend their lives with calculators and boxscores and never ~er much further with an athlete then his sconng average or free throw percentage. A happy medium, at least for me, is simply enjoying rhe people. People doing something they do very well but are, when the arena is empty and the locker room closed, just people after all. 
And, if you look at it that way, then it's easy ro appreciate guys like Rich Branmng and Bill Hanzlik and still have a good time on game day. 
Like I do. 
' ~. 

The Observer 

Foreign dignitaries make initial C<>ntact 
(AP) · Egrpt and Israel 1977 journey to Jerusalem, established ful diplomatic rela­which launched the process that tions for the first time yester­last March led to the signing of day, a day hailed in Cairo and the Israeli-Egyptian treaty and J enisalem as a major chapter in the end of 30 years of war the history of peace but de­between the two nations. nounced in much of the Arab Three hundred miles away in world as a day of betrayal. ] erusalem, an air force honor 
As ambassadors from the guard and police band playing former enemies presented their the Egyptian anthem welcomed credentials in the two capitals, Nurtana as he arrived at the Palestinian Arabs _protested by presidential compound_ to closing down bus10esses and present his credentials to 1Is-­schools in the Israeli-occupied raeli President Yitzhak Navon. territories. Moslems staged "We can provide a goodex­similar strikes in parts of Leba­ample of coexistence 1m peace non, and all traffic in Syria between the Israeli people and came to a standstill for five the Arab people in the area,'' minutes at midday. Protesters Murtana said, "something that clashed with riot police in will reduce for (the Arabs) the Sudan. threat to their security and will 
The diplomatic normalization ensure a just and lasting came as Israel and Egypt peace." squabbled over the proposed The key obstacle to a broader sale of $2 billion worth of U.S. peace remains the unsettled po­weapons to Egypt, including litical future of the Palestin­the advanced F-16 jet fighter. ians. The U.S.--Egyptian-Isra­
Egyptian President Anwar eli talks on autonomy for the Sad at, in an interview with Is­Palestinians of the Israeli­WASHINGTON(AP)-The Nu­Uarring unforseen complica­I-sland plant near Harrisburg, 
raeli radio yesterday, said he occupied West Bank of thedear Regulawry_ Com_missi?n is tions, a license will likely be Pa. ·The nation's most serious was ''astonished'' at Israeli op­Jordan River and the Gaza Strip n:ady to begm llcenstsng issued to allow the plant to Cl>mmcrcial nuclear accident. 
position to the deal. resume Wednesday in thenuclear power plants again for begin ''low-power" operation Ahcarne said the 11 months "Believe me .. .I was aston­Hague, Netherlands.
within the next few weeks,
·the first time since the Three since the Three Mile Island ished to hear or to read in the Because the Egyptian-Israeli
Milt: Island ac, idefit, NRC Ahearne said in tsrimony to a accident. have seen a major newspap~r~, that B~gin .?as Ol?· treaty shattered the unity of thed1airman John R. Ahcarne told 1-{,,use Approriations subcom­revision of NRC safety stan­posed thts, he satd. .. .Thts Arab world against Israel, most c ..ngress yesterda yo. mutet: on energy. dards and procedures. Needed attitude is related to the old Arab nations condemned Sadat The plaru -the Tennessee corrections have also been
-Aht:arne said his-agency's history that we have really can­as a traitor.
Valley Authority', Scquoyah made on existing plants to
self-imposed moratorium -he celed'' by establishment of Some of yesterday's protests
Unit No. 1-is first on tht.· NRC' a make them safer, he testified.
cal led it a "pause'· · could ,end peace. against normalization were
ltst of U new plants that could Expected licensing of the
in the next few days when the In a parallel interview, Is­staged within miles of the
be put iruo operation in 1980. Se<.juoyah plant "will be viewed 
NRC wnsiders cranting an raeli Prime Minister Men­ceremonies.
No nudear plants have been as an end." to the licensing
imcrview operating license for achem Begin played down the
licensed since the accident last freeze the NRC imposed upon
<J. plant near Chattanooga, Tenn Israeli opposiuon, saying, "We
March 28 at the Three Mile itself last fall, Ahearne told the have a problem with the quality Snitepanel. 
and quantity, but this is not a
H<lwever, he said there are 
problem for public discussion,
sull some new T:1ree Mile 
but something to be worked out 
I , I Uncertainty island-inspired requirements .prepares
between the governments.''
that will have to be met before · 
A powerful faction of Begin's
the ready-k>r-operation plants 
coalition government believes,The HEW can authorized. siad
l• unlinued from page 1] IX,'' Conklin said. be He however, that Israel must lobby .forScholz 
regulation, calling for propor­decisions will be hade "on a t ' .
in Washington against the arms
terday that a group headed by · tional support of male and case-by-case basis.'' The Snite Museum of Art will 
deal.
Executive Vice President Fr. female collegiate sports, would He said the freeze be closted until , March 7 in
was At Cairo's Amine Palace, an
Edmund ]o}'.:e will formulate require Notre Dame to provide prompted by the need to put preparation for the ] anos
honor guard snapped to atten­
the proposals. approximately 21 scholarships NRC staff professionals to work Scholz musician and collector
tion and a military band played
A dectsion is expected before for women athletes if "minor" on deficiencies at· extsting exhibition.
the Israeli national anthem as
the May 2 meeting of the entire sports scholarships are main­plants. With this task nearly Sadat accepted the credentialsBoard of Trustees. tained. c<Hnpleted, staff members c:1.n 
of Israeli Ambassador Fitahii 
'Jerusalem' · 

''The sw.tement says that we The University provides no now be used for licensing n• w Ren-Fiissar. 
an· going to comply with Title female athletic grants-in-aid at ones, he testified. . .­
"Let us now, on this historicpresent. There currently are 70 nu­occasion, to complete our sac­toatr
Conklin declined comment on dear planrs liLensed to operate red mission and make the peace
the future of the Notre Dame in the United States. although 
process irreversible,'' Sa­
hockey program. Recent spec­only 67 are in operation..
Local artists tonight
dar declared. 
ulation has noted that the In addition to SequoyahNo. 1 "I am absolutely sure that
hockey program may be cut to and North Anna No.2 plants, peace is unavoidable," said The film, Jerusalem, will behelp comply with Title IX. rhe NRCtold Congress these Rev-Fussar, who praised Sadat shown tonight at 11:30 p.m. inConklin noted that there are nearly completed plants could
to perform 
as a man who would "live' Howard Hall. All are invited to"a number of alternatives" to be started up during 1980: throughout history'' for his attend.
pursue in creating female schol­Se<.juoyah No. 2; _Salem No. 2, arships, but declined to be Salem, N.J.; Dtablo Cany~ntonight mure specific. Nos. l & 2, near San LUis The University is still not Onspo, Calif.; Lasalle No. 1; satisfied with some of the Mt:ckkwbcrg, N.C.; Zimmer Tonight, at the Century Cen­financial provisions of Title IX, No. l, Moscow, Ohio; Farley ter, Convention Hall B, Jerry according to Conklin. "But N.,. 2,Dothan, Ala.; San Onoere Lackey will direct the South we're gomg to comply as best No. 2, San Clemente, Calif.; Bend Jazz Ensemble in a we can," he said. Shoreham No. l, Long Island, 
concert featuring the works of There is no timetable for N.Y.; Summer No. 1, Summer, Duke Ellington, Chuck Mangi­completing the plans, but Conk­S.C.; and Watts Bar No. 1, one and Henry Mancini. lin said a proposal would prob­Spnng City, Tenn. · 
Donna and Jerry Flint, two ably be presented to the Exec­The NRC is to meet tomorrow local dancers and choreo­utive Committee before May. !ll c•msidcr the request for ah -' graphers, will perform a jazz The Executive Committee can inrual liLense for th(' Sequoyah ballet to a Ladd Mcintosh peice speak for the entire Board, so No. 1 plant. "Un Collage du Garaghi au approval by the Committee will Fromage." stgnal approval by the Board. 
The Jazz Ensemble will l>lay At the close of the Feb. 16 a second Mcintosh work ''Little meeting, the Committee stated, Nazz Flannie's Doozits," along with "Coeducation at Notre Dame, Duke Ellington's "Satin Doll," thou~h only in existence for a 
•

"Main Squeeze" by Chuck relauvely short period, has 
competitors
Mangione, and "Brass on Ivo­been a notable success. We 
ry'' by Henry Mancini. may now enhance the quality of 
Rounding out the program coeducation further by develop­will be "Norwegian Lollipops," ing women'~ sports l?rogr~s to meet a piece by Lennon and McCart­which are fatr and equttable, 10 ney, "Hay Burner" by Sammy view of the number of women 
There will ·be a mandatory
Nestico, and "All My Yester­actively participating, as well as 
meeting for leaders of acts 
-

days" by Thad Jones.. progrru:ns ~hich are finan<:ially 
entering the Nazz Music Com­Admission is $2; starting viable 10 vtew of other Untver­petition tonight at 7 p.m. in the 
time is 8:15p.m. sity commitments." Nazz. 



The Observer Wednesday, February 27, 1980 -page 12 

Ford gains major victory iriPinto homicide trial 
WINAMAC, IND.. (AP)-The jury in ford Motor Co.'s reck­less lwmicide trial will see films of crash resr s conducted bv the automakcr tu show that other car-; wuuiJ have exploded un­der rhe same nl!lditions as a ftn' Pmtt> crash in Indiana, the )UdgL· ruled yesterday. • 
l11 a major victory for Ford. llula-;ki CtrcuitJ udge Hardin R. St.tllcmt said that the offense may show the tilms as e~idence 1)1 tis clauns that the force of the tmpact, rather than any defect 111 rile P1111o, caused the car to 
burst into flame~. 

The ruling, after a day-long heanng with the jury out of the cnunroom, came over prosecu­trnn objections that the Ford resrs did not deal with the key ,-,sue -whether the 1973 Pinto w.,IJ leak fuel in low to moder­all" speed rear-end crashes. 
F-.>rd is charged with rhrl!e ,c,>unts; of reckless homicide in the August 11.)78 burning deaths of three young women in a 1973 Pu11o that exploded after being lur frt>m behind by a van near (J,,shen, Ind. 
The state contends Ford reck­lessly designed the Pinto fuel­
' .
tank, knowing it was likely to 
explode in a rear-end collision, 
bur sold the cars anyway with­
our warning the public. 
hH·J, the first manufacturer 
t11 face criminal charges in an 
auro defects case, has claimed 
thar the Pinto was as safe as 
ullnparable cars. The Defense 
s;tlll yt:sterday its crash tests 
-;howed that no car in a situa­
trt>ll similar to the 1978 crash· 
W••uiJ have fared any better 
rh.111 tht: Pinto. 
In rhe Ford tests, 1973 models of the Pinto, Doge Colt, Chevrolet Vega and Impala, t\mnican Motors Gremlin and r,,,.,,ra Corolla were struck from beitmd by a van traveling 50.3 
mph. 
The prosc-curion also objected 
tha; all•>wing the ford tests was 
un! ur beca.1se Sraffeint repear­
edll' ha.; rd"used to allow the 
pn;;ecution to present crash 
tesr-; of cars other than the 1973 
Prnl•>. . 
Sr afkrnr said he was admit­ting the films to show why fuel · lcaLed 111 the Indiana accidem 

Th>onesbury by Garry Trudeau 
IN 7H£ PlEBS 7HIITRJL/biEP, 7$ 
5C.OP& fF MY !NVC5TJ6/.ITKJN taP­
~ 70 MY51«K, I~ (}FffJq;JJ 
8Rfl¥§ 8YA6fi.J75 IN NEll/ Jfl5et; 
#EN 100', FifRIPA, &Vl5N 7/::.XA'3! 
anti tll -;how the standard and 
pra. tin of the industry in 197 3. 
Ik -;ard he would reconsider his 
h.111 t>ll use of crash tests on l•J?t attd 11.)71.) Pintos if the prw.c~ u1 ion could show they are n.·il· .-erll on the same grounds. 
1-"· ml ;s ~:barged with three 
,-..ullts of reckless homicide 
...,,l·nunrng ·frnm the a~:~:ident. 
!"Ire srare say-s that Ford knew 
ddcds in the Pinto fuel system 
m.tdc rhe Glr likely to explode 
<Ill rt"ar-1mpact but did not make 
n·patrs ur warn the publi~: of its 
d.tngers. 
f'hc dd(:nse has argued that 11 was the force of the irnpa~:t, 
r.11 her than any defects in the PHil<> fuel s>·srem, that ~:aused till" c.1r tu explode. 
Mak•>lm Wheeler, one of t.-..,d .... ar torney-s, said that the ,,,t-;h srmulation will show a l·J,") Prn(l) stru~:k by a 1979 Cll\it>lct van, with a wooden hlllnper, traveling 50.3 mph. 1"11.11 rs slower than in the It 1< kuta a,udent, Wheeler said, a:rltl)ugh the prosecution has tl,umnl there was no more than .1 I).W mph differen~:e in 'i plTd. 
Or hn fi Imo.; prepared for the 
dt"kn-.e involve the same type 
,,, v.u1 traveling at the same 
'-)>lTd and hitting 11.)73 models 
,,( tltc American Motors Grem­
ltn,. Dodge C>lt, Toyota Corolla 
.111d Chcvmlet Vega -all sub 
~"mpads and the larger 
Cltl"Vrulet Impala. 
lh·sc will show the true 
, .liN" of tlte fire in the accident lt.lll ll•>thlllg to do with the dt·-,rgw; of this ~ar (the Pinto)," Whn:IL·r said. "It had ro do w11lt tile van weighing over l.tltlll p<>unds smashmg into the b.tl k of the Pinto. They will '-·t•>W that whether it was a L1tn)· Impala, Toyota Corolla, .t C.>il, Vega or Gremlin that the , .11 w.h gorng to leak fuel and -;pray fuel all over and cause a 
Ln·. · · 
f'hc prt>sccution objected that u.... ,. of the defense films was unl.11r because the state has hl"("ll unable to use itsown crash tl·-..r involvrng other Pinto Ill• Hit-Is 
Pulaskr Ctr~:uit Judge Harold 
P Sralleint has barred the 
l''' >'>l"l ur ion from using any 
t(""'" rhat do not deal specific­
ail\· wuh the 11.)7) Pinto. 
V.tlpararst> University law pr ,fc-;s,>r Bruce Berner, who is ;h..,tsllng the prosecution, told Stalll-tnl thai it was impossible ,,, du1;lrcate the Indiana crash .utd tltar films purporting to do "'' W•>uld rnidlead lhe jury. 
HL" also objected that the 50.3 
mph speed used in the Ford 
~t·-,rs was ,only an assumption. 
· Ilow ford ~:an clatm to have 
pr.,ved the speed by showing 
t(·-.ts thai assumed the speed 
makes no sense," he said. 
Prllsnutor Michael A. Cosentino said earlier that if F•>rd were suc~:essful in admit­trng its films, he would try again to _get into evidence the state's fdrns, made by the Nati\lnal Highway Traffic Safe­ty Administration of crash rests on l'J71, 11.)72, and 1974 Pintos. The NHTSA said those tests showed the cars leaked signifi­cant amounts offuel in rear-end cra.bhes. 
.....-~.............. 

---------------~--­
The Observer -SportsBoard Wednesday, February 27,l98(f~page 13 

Interhall 

I SWIMMING 
ream totals:
I 
l 
Zdhm 33 Keenan 2B'/z Pd.Jgborn 2B 
! 
-Dillon (ue) 2J Alumni (lie) 23 Holy Cross 8 Mon rssey 5'/2 
S anlord 4
' 
011-Carnpus 3 
200-yd. Freestyle Relay-Zahm 1.3\JJ. Ke~nan 140.4. Alumni 1:43.0, Pangborn 143.2 Dillon 1:45.2. 
200-yd. Fnestyle-T. Austin (P) 1.~9 3. M. CorbisierrJ (Z) 2:02 1, G. 0 Regan (K) 2:02.9 
50-yd. Freestyle-f. Wooding (K) 2J o. J. Sideys (Z) 24.2, J. Ogren (M) 21 J 
100-yd. Individual Medley-D. L ,Ber!Je (Z) 1 04.5. J. Link (P) 1:05.4, 13 Buesc11er (D) 1:05.9. 
Diving -J. Reust (D) 104.10, D. S:iank (SJ 90 90, B. Breyer (OC) 87.55. 50-yd. Butterfly-M. Burns (K) 26.7, 
r F tlk> (k) 26.8, J. Lanz (a( 27.3 
100-yd. Freestyle-T. Auslgren (P) 5JS M Corbisiero {Z) 53.7 (j.d.), J. OJ•~Il (M) 53 6 (J.d.). 
50-yd. Backstroke -J_ Madigan (A) 2·r .J. D. Madrgan (A) 30.1. S. Blatt (D) 3lJ rj 
50-yd. Breaststroke-P. Schneider ( .CJ 30.6. M. Mdel (A) 32.3, T. ,\us yen (P) 32.5. 
200-yd. Medley Relay -Pangborn J2.0. Dr lion 1:!:>3.4. Zahm 1:55.4, .'\lurnnr t 'J6 4. Holy Cross 2:01.1 
Basketball Division I Playoffs 

H ,y C, oss 49. Cavanaugh 38 
(j .i.u I 63. Fldnner II 43 
Division If Playoffs 

I , ,.., 'i:J. Dr lion 54 
.\lu,rrnr 44. Franner 39 
Hockey 

tJ 111 ~ Morrrssey 4 
Basketball 
TOURNAMENTS 
Eastern Athletic Conference 
First Round Metro 

r·•na b9. F.rrrlergn-Dickenson 53 
North 

13"s.on U _ 95. Nragra 86 Jidltle 66. Northeastern 52 .loly Cross 90. Vermont 74 
South 

Ndvy 51. Bal:rmore 50 0111 Dommron 112. Catholic U 59 Wrlliarn & Mary 78, Richmond 77 S FranCIS, Pa. 58. James Madisrn 54 
Big Eight First Round 

Kansas 75. Colorado 65 Kansas S.. 101. Iowa St. 87 Nebi aska 75, Colorado 68 Missourr 82. Oklahoma St. 69 
Eastern Eight First Round 

p, SbUI gh 77, George Washington 6B Ru yers 76, S.. Bonaventure 74 Villanova B5. Massachusetts 63 Wes: Virginta 95, Duquesne 87 
Missouri Valley Conference First Round 

B atJiey 97, Tulsa 76 W Texas S . 98, N. Mexico St. 87 WiChl:d S:. 82, Indiana St. 70 
Mid-American Conference First Round 

Nor;liern Illinois 58, Miami (Ohio) 53 Bowling Green 54, Eastern Michigan 49 Ball St. 73, Kent State 71 
Hockev · 
Tuesday's NHL Scores 

Washington 5, Los Angeles 3 Mon1real 3, Atlanta 3 Quebec 9, Hartford 5 Minnesota 5, Vancouver 4 St. Louis 5. Toron•o 2 
·1980-81 SENIOR BAR
Sport~ Briefs _ ______, 
MANAGER 
I

Iriterhallb-ball playoffs st~ 
APPLICATIONS
Last night at the ACC, the 1980 interhall basketball playoffs 
got underway with first round action in Division I and 
Applications for the Senior Bar Manager
Division II. Unbeaten Holy Cross used balanced scoring to 
defeat Cavanau~h 49-38 in the opener of the Division I 
spots willbe availableID Rm. 315 ;Of
double elimination tourney while Grace I overcame a 
J ---. -~ ~-­

halftime deficit to blow by Flanner II 63-43 behind 
the Bus.Ad~Btiildi:Dg from Mon. the 25th
sophomore Tim O'Connor's 16 points. In Division II, Fisher 
I
. edged Dillon 59-54 on the strength of Mike Briganti's 18 
to Fri. the 29thofFebmary. 
pomt effort and Alumni trimmed Flanner 44-39. Tim 
Nypaver's 19 po~nts fueled the Alumni victory. 
I ICompleted applications should 
be returned 
to Rm. 315 ofthe Bus. Ad. BWldfug. 
Raiders'take case to court 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP)-The Oakland Raiders went to the state Court of Appeal today to ask for a stay of a lower-court order which prevents the National Football League franchise · from moving to Los Angeles. 
The Raiders want the court to either grant a temporary restraining order or an order prohibiting Oakland from proceeding with the eminent domain suit lt filed last week until a hearing can be held and a decision reached by the appellate court. . 
There was no indication when the Court ofAppeal would act on the Raiders' request. Oakland claimed in Alameda Superior Court last week that it had a right to take over the football team under eminent 
Applications will not be accepted later than .'1
domain rather than see the club move to Los Angeles as team owners app~ar ready to do. 
· Monday, March 3rd. 

..-..~.........-H~t-B ,. --,._.~~-I • I 
THE LEADING NEWSMAGAZINE AT THE LOWEST PRICE. 
Because you 
attcf\,d college 
you are eligible 
to receive TIME, 
the world's lead­
ing newsweekly 
at the lowest indi­
vidual subscription 
rate, just 35¢ an 
issue. That's BIG 
SAVINGS off the 
regular subscription 
rate of 59¢ an issue 
and even BIGGER 
SAVINGS off the $1.25 
newsstand price. 
And it's so simple to 
subscribe-just look for 
the cards with TIME and 
its sister publications, 
Sports Illustrated, Fortune, 
Life, Money and People. 
They are available at the 
college bookstore or from 
your local TIME representative: 
kevin RoChford 
121 E. Navarre_ 
South Bend, ~ 46601 . 
'(219) -~33~5298 
'\ \ 

.....--------------------------------~------­
r·· 
~ ~ 
•~ 
~ ~ 
The Observer-Sports Wednesday, February 27, 1980-page 14 
I ~ 


Following is the statement University of Notre Dame, at a participation by women in submit such proposals to the released yesterday by the Uni­meeting on February 16, 1980, athletic programs at the Uni­Executive Committee or to the The statement: versity concerning a discussion affirmed its support of the versity'. full Board of Trustees at the held earlier by the Executive inciple of fair and equitable To this end, the Executive earliest practicable date. It was Committee of the Board of The executive Committee of Committee requested the Uni­noted that the cost of such Trustees about the relationship t~e Board of Trustees of the versity asministration to programs for women could be verbatim of Title IX to the institutions's University of Notre Dame, at a formulate specific proposals to substantial and may result in athletic program. meeting on February 16, 1980, meet the needs of the women some curtailment, over time, in The executive Committee of affirmed its support of the students who desire to engage one or more existing sports 
theBoard of Trusteyes of the principle of fair and equitable in athletic programs and to programs at Notre Dame. 
The Executive Committee went on to say that ever}' effort should be exerted to maintain 

-~-
Molarity by Michael Molinelli as many as possible of the so-called "minor sports" at the University. The Board has always welcomed the fact that athletics at Notre Dame have meant more than varsity sports, that many more students particip:tte in intramural and club sports, than in the limited varsity ~ntercollegiate teams. The latter programs receive more t>ublicity, but in the total educational endeavor, the form­er are more important for the whole student body, men and women. The Committee at the conclus­ion of its meeting stated: "Coeducation at Notre Dame, thous-h only in existence for a


ACROSS 27 Goes 45 Soup dish 22 Literary 1 Jolly-berserk 46 Had break-initials 
relatively short period, has 
been a notable success. We

6 Pack down 29 Bahama fast 23 No, in Bonn
The Daily Crossword 
10 Starr group 47 Play areas 25 Certain 
may now enhance the quality of 14 Garnish 33 Honor 48 Rue paintings 
coeducation further by develop­

item 34 Lazy-53 Hack 27 Mexican 
ing women's sports programs

15 Fit to-35 Confederate 56 Gemstone money 
which are fair and equitable, in

16 Drug­soldier 57 Son of Zeus 28 Situated in yielding 37 Alastair 58 Genus of the main 
view of the number of women 

plant et al. grasses line 
actively participating, as well as 17 Preserves 38 Abounding 60 Descartes 29 Scorches 
programs which are financially

18 Persian in seedless 61 Jacob's 30 Contraction 
wiable in view of other Univer­

gazelle plants wife 31 Like a 
sity commitments."

19 Feathered 39 Bog 62 Flax cloth rainbow 
scarves 40 Bravo! 63 Basketball 32 Worsted 20 Comp. pt. 41 Praying team cloth 21 Ttleme of figure, 64 Constella-34 Brand with 
... Upset

puzzle in art tion a hot iron 24 Christmas 42 Sponge "65 Europeans 36 Auxiliary 
1. •lllllllltt.!d from page 16] 

songs 43 Ralston and verb 
won. It helped u~in pickingup 

26 Lion Rolle DOWN 38 Parachuting 
recruits too." 

1 -Bowl term 
One of the key recruits that the 

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 2 Pearl Buck 39 Stamp 
game affected was then-high

heroine 41 "-be in 3 George and England" 
school senior Mark Agu'irre. "I 

Sarah, e.g. 42 Panacea 
had decided on DePaul before'• 4 Dusk 44 Postpones 
that game, but that was the 5 Venerate 45 Tic---toe 
icing on the cake. If I had had 

6 Mexican 47 Turkish 
any doubts, they were gone

food official 7 Above 48 Tooter 
after we beat Notre Dame." 8 Only 49 Sword 
"Our program has been on the 9 Ms. Bailey 50 Declaim 
upgrade ever since that game,'' 

10 Fierce ape 51 Zane or 
beams Meyer.

1-1 Baseball Jane name· 52 Aft 12 Reddish-54 Dill brown 55 Taboos Hardy girl 59 Compete 
...Jinx 
I •JIIIIIIIh'dfn~tn page /6] 
Aguirre. "lfwe lose him, that will force me to play better defense anJ go to the boards

We've got a coupon 
rnorT .. But l can't see Jim sitting on the sidelinq,and watrhing."

you can't refuse Ill 
Indeed, Mitchem has a repu­tation for refusing to sit. by and

(ANO WE'RE C.lOSE To THE C.AmPUS, 
watch passively. In last year'sATUS 31 N AHD DARDEN RD.) season opener against UCLA, Mitchem was bedridden in the
Ihe 
hotel with influenza and was forced to listen to the game on the radio. As he listened to
Sub 
reserve center Bill Madey get in foul trouble, Mitchem jumped out of bed, ran one and a half miles to Pauley Pavillion and
Machine 
made it to the courts ide to cheer on the BlueDemons. ·'lt was funny but just yester­
MENU 

DELUXE COMBO HAM dayjim was remarkmg how no 
11 /,un I'C'pperon.-Sai.Jmi-Hologna) 
. one had ever gotten sick or hurt
PASTRAMI

SUB MACHINE SPECIAL this year; how we had sucess­{I /,Jnl· S.JI,un..tlolognJ) PEPPERONI fully avoided the jinx," recalled ITAllAN (/'<'PPNOOI S.li.Jml) SALAMI head coach Ray Meyer. Meyer MEATBALL BOLOGNA was referring to the rash of anomalies which seem to
ALASKAN KING CRAB POLISH SAUSAGE 
plague DePaul whenever it 
TUNA CHEESE 
plays Notre Dame. 

ROAST BEEF VEGETARIAN SUB 
'"'Three years ago, Joe Ponset

------Servedwllh your choiCe of------­
to cracked a bone in his ankle

I ~ 
OniOn' •L••ttute• Tom.JIO<'•I'rckles • Grt•f'n P<•ppers • Black Olive~ 
0 ~.Jit • i'<'PIX'' • Or/ • Vrneg;Jr • Mayonaise • Mustard the night before the game -Oreg.Jno • Hot S.Juce ---------0 CD remembered Meyer. "Before 
s J the NCAAs someone hit Dave 
~ Corzine in the hand with a ball
I~ "' 
u 
and dislocated his finger.''

the » ... J
Q. I Two years ago Corzine had rhe flu and Ponsetto had a
~­
sprained ankle when the Blue

Sub Machine ·~ ~1 
Demons arrived in South Bend. 

2426 LINCOLNWAY WEST, MISH. 259-8110 
{I} 
And now Mitchem is the 52313 US 31 NORTH, SO. BEND 277-6355 lucky (?) victim. 


~------------••~------·------------~--------.-.........................a....a....~... 
} 
The Observer -Sports Wednesday,February 27, 1980-page 15 
• • . Statetnent 

[."untinued from page 16] 
decision reached may be favorable, keeping the too late, they will serve no purpose. And supposerequirements of Title IX. moratorium 10 effect hurts every sport except the women's basketball team receives scholarships,Now the answer we are all waiting to hear ·· and football arid basketball. in late March for example? Is it expected to go outwhich the University is just preparing to answer now and start recruiting players at that time?·: is what effect an improved women's sports If the freeze on scholarships is not lifted soon, the 
program will have on the rest of the athletic recruiting season for the sports will suffer dearly. Too many questions remain, and not enough 
department? What cutbacks, if any, will be made ''If we can ~et a go ahead by April 1,'' said Ric answers are available. Unless a decision concerning 
and where will they be made? Schafer, assistant hockey coach and recruiter, "we the moratorium is reached soon, the seasons of many 
By not coming out with a decision, the scholarship should be okay." The signing date of national sports at Notre Dame next year will suffer. That is moratorium continues. It appears that I the letters-of-intent for scholarship players begins April certainly not a healthy way to start :>.n athletic moratorium will remain in effect untill a decision is 12. program which hopes to have a bright future, as the 
reached. Although it IS possible a long-term If1he scholarships are given back on a date that is University maintains right now. 
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in wh1~h the .;d ;. run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail.
Classifieds 
Get your Senior Bar Semi Formal Monday was Peter Vrbain's birthday Anyone desiring colored marshmel­tickets during lunch in Lafortune and and now he's an adult. But he'll still lows, contact Ahmad, our favorite 
during open hours at Senior Bar. Tues. take ya for anything you've got so send triple jumper. 26th-Wed. 5th. the "Jewboy" a note or a gift or just the Jellybeanscall him at 1657. Happy Birthday Mr. 
Notices For Sale 
Spring Breal! Daytona Trip--Bus Flash: Photographic equipment for 
Jet. Vrbainsburg! Susie Snowbird,Transportation with Hotel, $199. sale--fantastic bargains! -·cameras, 
Drlve·n Save for $99. Drive'n Save to lenses. Call 232-4129. 
You are marked for life. Happy 21st! I hope your blender's in Ft. Lauderdale for $109; only six rooms 
Lovebird Need ride to Dayton this weekend for good shape, 'cause I think it's going to left. 6 days/5 nights. For information, Skis: 190 em Yamaha $55 
game. get a workout pretty soon. call Ken, 283-1387. 'loots: size 12 Nordica $45. 
JEF* JEF* JEF* JEF* John 8583 the Sign Supervisor 
JEF* JEF* JEF* JEF* JEF P.S. Sure, I'll bring the Am(!retto.
~all Jack 6720. 

Thanx rockin'
Tuesday Is ND-SMC day at 'oyal Lovebird Sarin: for with us Valley Ski Resort! 2 for 1 lift t·~·•ets Need Bucks, will sell one-yea~ old 
Friday. Who's TOM CHAPIN? Come see Mark Aguirre Gives Gummers Steve & Next Harry's brother .at St. Mary's on3-:10 pm, also 2 for 1 7-10 pm, Fisher stereo system-25 watts, cas­M-Tu-Th. 2 chair lifts CLOSEST SKI sette deck, turntable, speakers. 
Rich Peters March 8. 
Dedicated Rockers! You were excel­AREA TO CAMPUS. Buchanan, Mich. Excellent condition, great buy. Phone Jet, lent Friday nile! Next loves you--keep STEVE HUFFMAN
1943. Ski VERMONT over Spring Break 
Ride me to Dayton! it up. Well, Steve, since you read the with the ND-SMC Ski Club. Lifts, Lovebird Michael, Bill, Mike, & Steve personals everyday, here is your very lodgings and meals for five days. 
own personal. Have fun at the
Tickets 

Stubby, Lloyd Coble: Thanx a lot. Keep up the NO-Dayton game!
$139.00. Contact Chris 3200 or 3414. 
A cat has nine lives, you have six jammin'! Love, Kate Attention Fun-Living Snowbound Kill­
left, keep up the good work. NEXT
MUST have Dayton tix!!f Please help Ray Meyer T.S.IS IIIIHIPPED!
ington Skiers: 
41-5710. 

VOLUNTEERS NEEDED:
The moment has come that you have been waiting for!! In anticipation of Attention all T.A.C.O.'s: This per· 1. Tutor adult, Algebra Make Peter "J.B." Vrbain happy on
My father needs a ticket for the sonal is to wish you a grand and 2. Work with mentally retarded, his birthday, buy a foodsales pizza!
our trip over Spring Break to Killing­
DePaul game. Will trade my DePaul 
glorious half-birthday! Now who convelescent home, Saturdays.
ton, you must please have your $35.00 
student ticket and $5 for a DePaul GA.
deposit to Dennis Brennan by Wed. would have ever thought of that? 3. Read poetry to convelescent pa­Happy Birthday Regina. Have a great
Call Wheat at 1171. 

YOU know Who tients, Monday afternoons. day.
Feb. 27. Call 277-5209. 
4. Aid Meals on Wheels program. SteveWill trade 2 Student DePaul tickets for Announcing the College Bowl Tear,1 5. Tutor sophomore geometry.
2 Dayton GA's. Call Mark 8648 or sendoff to the Nationals in West 6. Care for grade shcoolers, March 15, To our swinging partners fromJohn 8646. 
Virginia. while parents in workshops. Saturday night. Thanks for a fun Bill Hocul, Ed Bylina, Dan Meulman SQUARE DANCE. 
Lost&Found 
Help. Need 1 DePaul student ticket.
Lost: A silver engraved Cross pen at Paul Weithman, Tim Seasly Cece and Pedro, Love,
Call Ed 1687.

Mardi Gras backstage room. Call 357 Zahm Wed. night. You've been together a long, long The Gals on the rig-ht 
Kevin 3670. time. And, Pujals, I hope you've saved
Need 2-4 GA's to DePaul. Will pay Donna Lorenzen for Slounge Queen. more than a dime. 'Cause you'll never Who in the hell is Joe Kent, Jackgood $$$$. Call Joe at 3439.
Last: Olive drab green army-style know when she'll want your loot. a Brankln, Kevin Connor and Dan baseball cap lost between Main Circle Conrad Mazeski, the original Ameri­year and a half qualifies you for a Calahan? and Zahm. Must have. Great value. can Gigoloski says: "I'd rather not be palimony suit! Steve 8907 Reward. abused, I'd rather by used." HAPPY ANNIVERSARY WHO CARES???!?
Personals 
Love to use ya, LOVE* JILLYBEAN Lost: Glasses, brown and gold striped Mike Pa:e: :a(Kn.eecap) Sandy Brandt WE DO; MARY LAUBER* TERI case. If found, call Linda SMC 4674. dappy 21s:! (Peggy told To Beth Huffman, Bill Marquard, CONNOR* KATHY MONAHAN* 
me). You fry a mean Dear Maureen, Gary Grassey: MARY TRAMELLif!! Lost: SMC class ring. Initials MHK. :J.1gel. Pa1 :y heanyl Is the laundry done? I will get the Thank-you for the lovely planter. I 
Reward. Call 41-4723. Patty shel·tes down by Saturday. lsn 'I look forward to seeing you again soon. Barb, 
married life fun!? Mother Goose What'll it be--drugs, sex, or rock f1' Found: Sat. night--key ring with 13 Attention Seniors·· .Love, Manny (alias Mrs. Gasiorek) roll? Oh, please forgive me! I forgot keys and a powerful Pete Pocket Senior Arts Festival is coming. P.S. Gary, I hope you enjoyed the you were married! scre.wdriver. Call Jim 233-:~fifl? Please submit manuscripts to Student Dr. Bottei: pierogi. I sti II love you. Union office, 2nd floor LaFortune by Thanks for the telephone call. It Ron 
sure came in handy! Jolly Green Bean,
~~cl!_~_D..!:!.~t.!£~..£.a.!!..Q.~f!.!!.1}.§.: 
M.B. Budd It has been a terrible month. Dear Madeline, Tex, and Biz,
For Rent 
Applications for the Nazz Music Electric Frito We are going to win.Competition are available at Student Brown haired, blue eyed brother BartRooms $40 month. Near. Rides. Union [Second Floor LaFortune] and 
hop-a-long desires the presence of a Still calling?
233-1329. 
are due February 27. 

beautiful female with unique personal­Still saying "yes"! To the person who is waiting for me: We rent dependable cars from $7.95 a ity for dinner, dancing, and drinks. Happy Birthday I am very interested in asking you
P.J. STAPLETON ET AL...THANKS 
Dinner negotiable, dance and drink till Love, Ann out. I think I know who you are butday and 7 cents a mile. Ugly Duckling FOR YOUR SOUTHERN HOSPITA· dawn at the Erskine C.C. Goodnight how about a clue for positive identifi­Rent-A-Car. 921 E. Jefferson Blvd. 
LITY. WE HAD A GREAT TIME. 
kiss optional. Call Steve 8262. Happy 21st to OUR Lisa dollie! cation?
Mish, lnd 255-2323. 
TAKE CARE AND THANKS FOR 
Ships ahoy, Hopefully yours.

---------------~
EVERYTHING. YOUR'S IN DIXIE* 
Lady, Katie. Anne, & Barbara J. "311" w.
For Rent: 5-bedroom house at 713 THE NOTRE DAME 14. 
Ti amo molto tanto. Senza tu, mia 1981 school year beginning Aug. 20, Notre Dame Ave.; Available for 1980­vitae niente. Grazie mia Bell' arnica. KFM* Admiree,Sluggo nominates Mr. Bill for UMOC. 
__;______l..@!!!Q_ __.:____ BUON compleano, to a real "cute Do you want to make love or will we
1980. Was previously rented but is dish". keep on playing HEAD GAMES? I was
available again. Call Betsie 7753, ctiaii8S:7HoiiY;Giiii;-;-o;8rfiir-uMil c OKAY DON MUROAY* 
KSK going to speak, but two can play thisDana 7727, or Randee 8966 for more Chucky Is Yucky You've had your chance but you've game. Good luck in your search for
information. 
come up empty handed--Carroll Hall Two need ride to Chicago southside. Your Secret AdmirerNazz Music Competition Is March own up to it. It's mine and I want it 
Feb. 29. Call 41-4518.
Seventh--Apply! back. I've been without for 2 whole RA Expedition 1--what a success. 15th
Wailted 
months ever since that PFEISTER "Billy Needham", Floor paradise. Not 3 meals a day but
Charles "Hollywood" Oyer for UMOC JOE'S BLOW OUT I can't act Thanks for lunch on Saturday! picnics, sloe gin. and all that jazz.
The Forsaken Jamican responsible much longer. Give me
Need ride to Chicago area this Love, Mrs. Huddle Walks by the lake, song and dance
back my hat!l

Thursday or Friday. Will share (T.Y.B.) and York P.P. sound fishy?
Attention Long Islanders: Long Island Slowey
expenses. Please call Tim at 232-7314. Mi amor secreta, Wait for R.E. ii ILY Fred.
Club meeting Feb. 27, Wednesday Hablas tres lenguas, y tambien Ia
night at 6:30 in Little Theatre in Bill,
Wanted: Ride to St. Louis, Mo. March lengu3 international? To: Misshea, Fox, South what?•
LaFortune. Have a great Birthday!
7 weekend. Pat 7233. MIMI Diggerfig, Ruby I, Driver J.D ..
from your Ball State Archie Good times--Popeyes ... hurricanes.,.
Triple digit cash--awarded to winners
I need aride to Madison this weekend. S'ephen Power Rue Bourbon-Shouw your II ... Takee­
of the Nazz Music Competition, March
Please phone Mark 1388. Without you i'd be searching an outee ... Nopeekie-Nosoapie ..
7. Bob B., 
"endless desert" for DePaul tickets. Undertheo .... waitrit!! ...scenicroops ... NEED RIDE TO BUFFALO THIS It's an Irish Hump Day! Thanks. Dee. killer beads... southernly comfortable
·Dear Mike McMahon Thank you. I will reply when I Know
WEEKEND. CALL MATT AT 1751 OR Jackblack .....Jesus saves ...hyperac·
Roses are red, what I want to say and how I want to
1754. Bessie C, (see, sea) tive cows ... funny viewers !I!!
Violets are blue say it--maybe a week from now. 
Do peppermints & gum mix well??? Mardi Gras 1980You better watch out
Overseas Jobs--Summer/year round. Anyways, I really like croutons and ''The Great Southern Waste!'·
Or a barracuda will bite you! ' Deirdre M.
Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, you are #1. Love, etc. All fields, $!.i00-$1 ,200 monthly. until lunch Pit stop
Kelly Ann Foss, I.D.K.,
Expenses paid. Sigh seeing. Free t. (tee, tea) P.S. Best Krewe ever!!
Ciao bella! Good luck in Arizona, You're the greatest. Honesty is the
info. Write 1-Jc Box 52-14, Corona Del 
etc. With your good looks, charming only policy.
Mar, Ca. 92625. Sandy, Hang in there Patti
personality, and "connections", find­I.H.Y. 
It's nice to see that the ladies of ILYMBing a job should be a snap.
Need ride to Detroi• area Feb. 29. Will Holy cross are in such good hands. I 
pay. call 41-4111. Can ya say I love you. Sure. Or. John Dorsey never wore a pink hope you enjoyed your apres-desk Groupies-­---------·-------blazer. activities and the rest of the weekend, Action "Born to be Wild" Jackson is
Remember: A power tool is not a toy:
ONE FEMALE W,\NHD IN CAM· legal today (save his life, he's going
Dear Bill H. -~~~~-: ________,_____________E~~-~y____________ down for the first time--Did you break
PUS VIEW APARTMENTS. $100/ Rich [Junlorj, · Good luck at College Bowl--!){ln 't 
Peace, love, and ... Basketball are all worry, nobody will know about Polanyi
MONTH. CALL ANNE 7884. any glass?) Please back off; we know 
he could score more than AguirreHelp! Need ride to St. Louis this

----------------that count. Good luck tonight. but you!
Need ride to rittsburgh weekend of tonight if he wanted to.
weekend. Feb. 29. Gail SMC-4629 ·KEY Yours in Econ. Hist.
2128. PleesP. r.~:t 8155. • l:l_i~~.n,anks, buddy) roommates
will share exoenses.P.S. "Thank You" cc 
.,.. ~ 
~ 
... 
j 
4 
j 
J 
l 
j 
J 
~ 
~ 
~,....... 

L-----------------------------------------------~---------­

Wednesday, February 27, 1980-page 16 
'Irish jinx' strikes Mitchem fractures hand 
by Bill Marquard hand. Should the operation be 
Sports Writer performed, Mitchem will be I<J.'it to the Demons for the rest of th<: season. 
DePaul center Jim Mitchem Th<: loss; of Mitchem could is the latestviuim of the' Notre hun DePaul. H<: i averaging 8.1 Darn<: jtnx" .The 6-9 senior P•Hnts p<:r game with a 6.1 
broke th<: fourth and fifth rd~ollllllrng mean per contest. rnctai.arpal bones at the base of 
Mird1em's likely replacement hi" kfr hand yesterday. His 
111 the staring line-up would be status for tonight's game 
ll'ddv Grubbs, a 6-8 freshman averaging 7.') points and 4.7

against the Irish is still question able. 
reh<lunds. But Grubbs has also 

ThcAlbuquerque New Mexico been plagued by nagging injur­nauvc sltpped and fell ori glare re"' this season and has not ice outside his dorm room 
played in recent wt-eks. Yet Mitchem does not thinkyesterday morning while leav­ing f~Jt· class. 

rhe injury wdl hamper his play 

., ,\fter I fell my hand felt rhat much. "I practised passing funny, but I figured that I had a ball backand forrh tl>day, just jammed a finger or some­and I didn't have much of 
a· thmg," described Mitchem. pmbkm because I carch rhe "When 1 shook my hand a ball wHh my finger~ rat11er rllan 
sharp pain shot through it, so I tl;c palm of my hand.'' felt that 1 should have it x-rayed . 
"The x-rays revealed the fracture," explained the frus­craccd ccncer. 
Mitchem appeared with the team at the Holiday Inn last by Bill Marquard seemingly insurmonutable 68-national TV audience. ntght at a scheduled news Sports W n'ter 63 lead with only one-and-a-half "It was a terrible loss for umference. His hand was tighly 
taped and padded, with his ringThe nation discovered a minutes left in the extra period. Notre Dame,'' recalls DePaul 
basketball program two years But two quick steals one by head coach Ray Meyer. ''But it and lie tle fingers wrapped to· ago at Notre Dame. No, it was ronight's starting quard Clyde was a great win for us. That gerhn to inhibit movement. nor the already prominent team Bradshaw, led to two quick game finally got us the national "I will start if I can, recognition we needed.'' asserted the 21) pound pivot.
of the Fighting Irish. It was a DePaul baskets and left the 
"But if! don't start that means
squad of basketball players Irish clutching desparately to a ''When we look back at what froma little catholic school' in 68-67 edge with 58 seconds to started all of this, that game is I wtll not play at all." Chicago called DePaul Blue go. where we point," offers assist­''Coach has left the dectsion 
up to me. 1 willpracticetonight
Demons. Both teams traded possessions ant coach Joey Meyer. "That On February 12, 1978, the in that tense final minute, until really started the ball rolling for ( l'ucsJay) and then dectde 11rh-rankedRlue Demons de­Irish guard Rich Branning went us. I think the kids really began whether I will be able to play. If .W.itd~t·m: qt~<·stionable starter therl' is too .much pain in my
feated the 4th-rated Irish 69-68 to the line with just 10 seconds to believe in themselves -that "As tor dribbling, I don· r put 
left to shoot a one-on-one they could beat a nationally hand and 1 Lannot play then I rile ball on r he floor th;t t much ,
in overtime in a game which situation. Branning missed the ranked team in their own gym wtll return to Chicago for and when I do it is usually to thewas destined ro change the 
forrunes of DePaul basketball. first, DePaul star Dave Corzine and that the whole country surgery Wednesday." hoop, at which time I · Aired as a regional offering on (now with the Washington watched them do it." No word was available late dribble with my right hand. My NBC, the game pre-empted the Bullets) grabbed the rebound, Bradshaw, the only player last n1ght concerning his status real cunccrn ar this point is how 
f~H· the game.
national telecast(North flipped an outlet to Bradshaw returning to the ACC :ronight well I can play defense and 
Mitchem's injury will even­
Carolina-Providence) more and who tossed the ball to Gary from that 1977-78 squad, also rcbl>Und -that wtll determine 
ually rcqutre surgery, at which my playing status."
more often as the Demons came Garland on the left wing. feels that that game w~s very closer ro upsetting the Irish. Garland pulled up with a 20-important for DePaul. i'It was tune metal screws will be ·Mitch has dedicated himself 
planted in the fractured bone! tu playing defense this year,"
Having fought to a 62-all foot jumper in front of the Irish probably the first big game we ru help them heal properly. A remarked teammate Mark
deadlock at the end of regulat­bench, and the Blue Demons l 'illllllli<'d on p.tge 14] 
cast will be placed on the left
ion, the Irish jumped out to :~ upended the Irish before a full l ·Jit/fltll<'d o11 page 14] 



t __ 
~ ~ 
t 
The statement that wasn't. • • or isn't . • • or??? 
Yesrerda>·'s announcement by the University' the program after this season possible? concerning the plight of Notre Dame's "so called "Anything is possible," responded]oyce. "It is minor sporrs" did nor answer any questions, nor did premature to be making any decisions now." ir address the is~.ue at hand with any direct action. If So now the decision-making process is beginning. anything, in fa.;r, the announcement raised more Will anyone from the athletic department be questrons involved in that process? 
When Fr. Hesburgh and Fr. Joyce left for Key "I would guess Moose Krause, and of course Fr. Biscayne a week-and-a-halfago, Hesburgh stated he Joyce," satd Fr. Hesburgh. "If something was hoped ro have an answer concerning the scholarship going to affect a specific sport, then we would issue. Every indication was to the effect that a consult that certain coach." solution was the purpose of the meeting. That was Joyce added that the officers of the University nor true even then. · University is going to acquire more money' for the would be involved as well as other officials of Notre A source in attendance at the meeting raid The athletic d·~partment is the overiding factor concern­Dame (i.e., Board of Trustees, Executive Commit­Obsert•er yesterday that "they Uoyce and ing the plight of the sports which were put in limbo tee). 1-Iesburgh) had no concrete plan ready concerning by the moratorium. Will Notre Dame redistribute its Lefty Smith, Irish hockey coach, expressed hope the issue. The executive committee of the Board of current athletics spendings or will it put more money that the University will indeed consult him to try and Trustees gave them its recommendation and advised into the budget? This is the most important question resolve the hockey situation. 
them to have a solid plan ready for the Board of the University has yet to answer. The source at the "I would hope that someone from the a~hletic Trustees me<"tin~ in May. This announcement meeting is Key Biscayne confirmed this. department or administration would come to sit s:~tisfies the outstde pressure, but does not commit "They haven't arrived at the decision of where down and talk about what can be done concerning _I oyct" and Hesburgh to a firm decision. They (Joyce they are going to get the money from," the source our team," said Smith. "Will we form a new and Hesburgh) just want some more time to look the; explained. "Another important thing to consider, league? How about scheduling or transportation i-;sue over. They aren't ready to give an answer." though, is how far the University must go to satisfy costs? I just wish they would come out and say that 
In light of yesterday's announcement, that is the federal government. They cannot put a figure on we are going to go ahead as planned in 1980-81, so obvious. The release stressed the fact that the it''' we can know something for next season. University is intent on improving its women's sports Just what does the administration know concern­"As long as the door is not shut on us yet, I have program. Big deal. Title IX has forced Notre Dame ing this issue? Right now, it appears it knows so say we remain optimistic.'' tnro reevaluating how it spends money on athletics. nothing. All it knows is it must come up with a Other coaches expressed optimisim as well. The purpose of the meetin~ in Key Biscayne was to solution to satisfy Uncle Sam. The University has no ''As long as they say they want to continue with all 
buy more time for the decisiOn making process--and solution right now because 'it waited too long to the sports, that gives us some hope," said track that is just what the administration got. confront a problem that has been looming on the coachJoe Piane. Piane's ream currently recieves 11 "Wt> have nothing further to announce right horizon for a considerable amount of time. scholarships. 

now," Fr. Joyce said yesterday. "It is useless to What are the options for the Irish· hockey team, WNDU television reponed last night that ''the "speculate. I don't know what we are going to do. the biggest athletic financial burden for the most likely option to be considered is for Notre The whole matter remains to be discussed. University? Could it enter the Central Collegiate 
Dame,ro in_sri_ru~e a top-fli~ht women's basketball ''I cannot pinpoint any specific time for when a league? How about the idea. offorming a new league team. Thts ts m reference to a way to satisfy the decision will be reached. I hope for it not to drag with the Michigan and Ohio schools? Is disbanding 
l· •Jn/tnut~d on page 15] 





