' I 
...0/ympics-Page 12 

VOL. XIV, NO. 91 
an independent studcnt.newspaper servmg notre dame and sainr mary's FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1980 . 
Militants deiiland Shah THEMcNALLY POLL-Bushleads, inexchange for hostages Asked ofall ND/Sl'Yf.C students: ,. Carterholds
"Whom would you prefer as the Republican nominee?" .... '1 u\P)-Inspired by a message of support from Ayatollah Ruhollah I' . Ia'\ ! Kh\)meini, the young militants holding the U.S. Embassy in Black. type= Jan 1980. Red type • ·Feb. 1980 
I 
Tchrunvowe~alle~.yes~~d~yiliey~illnotrekaseilieirAmerican~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
lh,stages unttl the fugtttve shah 1s handed over to Iran. : by EdMcNally andjim Gates l'IH.:·_ militants' reaffirmation of their tough stand raised new 1 BUSH 14 % quest 1ons a.bour the prospects for an early release of the hostages. L • 39% .Electoral victories in Iowa and I he U.N. mvestigative panel onlran,whose work might be crucial . -------------Puerto Rico have propelled
REAGAN 16%+-21.5% f d. l d
111 r~soluti~n of the crisis_, cont.in_ued to ma~k ~ime in Swi~zerland. ________ -· ormer tp omat an congress-
l
!ran s pres1dem and foretgn mmtster both mststed there ts no deal• ----· -----·--------man George Bush to a 20 point 
~uaranreeing freedom for the hostages in exchange for the U.N. I 11 %--+ 14.5% ANDERSON lead over Ronald Reagan in the 
•nqylry. And both Khomeini and President Abolhassan Bani-Sadr. ------· --Republican presidential race reiterated Iran's demand for extradition of the ousted shah. ' 7% 14.5% Baker and N )tre Dame and St. Mary's 
One of the co-chairmen of the five-member U.N. commission, I according to a camaus-wide poll ~oharned B~djaoui, Algeria's U.N. ambassador, unexpected~y I_eft ·; 5 %~9.5% CONNALLY taken last weeken . Geneva, Switzerland, for New York yesterday. The commtsston ~---·------·---------~---------------l C(ingressman John Anderson 
members had been scheduled to fly from Geneva to Tehran : ·of Illinois has moved into third Wednesday, bur U.N. Secretary-General Kurt Waldheim at the 12.5%+-3.5% CRANE place in the G.O.P. rankings last minute delayed their departure until this weekend. I here, replacing Tennessee Sen-
Waldheim told reporters at the United Nations that Bedjaoui was ator Howard Baker. rcwrnmg because he had "urgent business" in his diplomatic Asked ofall ND!SMC students "Whom would ln the Democratic contest, rn•ss1on Ill New York, but a U.N. spokesman later said Waldheim you prefe as the Democratic nominee?" ~ both Presidenr Carter and Cali'­<J:Jd Bedjaoui would meet today. ~ fornia Gd1)vernohr Jerry Brown 
have rna e slig t gains, appar­endy at the expense of Senator Edward Kennedy, whose over­
''(The United States) mustdeliverup fugitive 

all support here has dropped by ~ seven percentage pomts.

...... 
52·-1 In a New York Times/CBSand the assets he hasstolen.,., 
----------! News poll released February
Mohammed Reza 
13.5% .....-­I 20. three reasons were cited for 
~--------..-----------i 
IBush's suaden climb against---------·--I 8% ......... 11% BROWN Reagan: Reagan's age, the 
llresumably they will discuss the obstacles that caused Waldheim ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ pn,mineoce ~~n B~h after ttl delay the cornmissinn's departure. Iran's foreign minister, . his Iowa victory, and the rise in S;tdegh Ghotbzadeh, indicated yesterday they might now arrive the imponance of foreign af­even la1 er than the weekend, telling the Iranian news agency they fairs. The suggestion is that would be coming to Tehran "early next week." Bush, former CIA head, UN

Speakers claitn injustices 
· Well-placed sources at the United Nations who asked not to be .ambassador, and China envoy, identified said the delay was necessary because Bani-Sadr needs nay be benetitting from the more time to marshal various groups in Iran behind a settlement of same voter preoccupation with

in draft registration 
imcrnational events that hasthe crisis. 
The commission is to carry out a "fzct-finding" mission hearing helped President Caner. A Iranian charges of mass mur~er and corruption agains~ depo~ed byEariRix pas~ IIIJUsllces associated with partial explanation for the am­Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavt and of U.S. mterference 10 Iraruan the draft and the conflict· ba-;sador's better than average afla1rs, and hearing American grievances over the hostage-taking. Prof. James .Stewart, former between social justice and eco­support h :re might be the The appmximately 50 hostages spent their 110th day in captivity director of Black Studies at nomic reality~ Times poll finding that Bush ~Tslerday. Notre Dame, said last night that Stewart was followed by Rose ha~ particular favor over Rea-· 
In statements Wednesday demanding return of the shah, neither the inequities of the draft Marie Hengesbach, director of gan among college-educated Khomeini nor Bani-Sadr said the hostages' freedom '1s reflect the inequities. of the the women's center at thesouth Republicans. cunt ingent on it. But the embassy militants made the connection society in the final presentation Bend YMCA, who discussed Ande~on, whoisnowrecog­clear. of draft lectures on campus. women and the draft. nit.ed by 60 percent of the 
In a statement broadcast on Tehran Radio, the militants said the Speaking to a crowd of about Stewart began by denying a students, is benefitting from Unu<:d States ''must deliver up fugitive Mohammad Reza and the 40 people last night in Galvin assets he has stolen." Auditorium, Stewart discussed [continued on page .1 0] [continued on page 4] 
===:::=:=:::==:;======-...;...::::====:=::::::=:::::::::::--:-===:=:::;::::::::============~=~" -·-" .·--· --­

Candidates present platfOrms 
Behney/ Carey/ Riehle/ Slattery/ Off-Campus Guilfoyle Marshall Ciancio Cooper Comm. 
by Michael Mader by Tom jackman by Gary Cuneen by Mary Fran Callahan by Maryellen Bradley StaffReporter Campaign StaffReporter Campaign StaffReporter Campaign Strif!Reporter 
Elecrion of the off-campus "We are offering specific and A tone of anger crept subtly SBP hopeful Jim "Slatrs" Slat-commissioner will be held Mon­
,researched ideas that are feas­into Bob Carey's voice as he With el~cti?n d.ay around the tery and VP 'Uncle Kieth" . day, the same day as the ibl~ in this campaign. The other discussed his platform after the corner, 1t ts ttme everyone Cooper are running what they regular Srudent Government candidates ar~ not so specific in SBP/SBVP forum Wednesday began thinking about whom call a "serious campaign in a dections. Voting will take their proposals," said Tom night, an anger borne of the they are voting for, so here is a different manner.'' Though place in the Huddle from 11 Behney and Frank Guilfoyle widespread student apathy on ' , closer look at one presidential : nine out of their thirteen plat-a.m.-3:30 p.m., according to Wednesday night in an inter­campus best exemplified by the candidate, Paul Riehle. ' form proposals are jokes, the Shannon Nt·ville, current o-c view with The Observer. poor turnout at the forum. Paul Riehle and running mate candidates insist on the serious-commissiOner. 1 
Social life, security, and Carey's main objective is to Don Ciancio carry with them . ness of their campaign. · Srudenrs who at present living changes in dining hall service reverse that apathy during his much experience and stress this . Their four "serious propo-. on campus, but who are movihg are the main issues in the administration, a hope based in their •campaign .. Riehle is sals" are: off campus next semester, will studem body elections, accord­not on his platform, but on his Keenan's hall president and is : -increased campus security · be able ro ote in their dorms ing to Behney and Guilfoyle. theory of massive reorganiza-connected with the HPC and (primarily more lighting) when they cast their ballot for . Most important among these . tion and amalgamation of the · the CLC, while Ciancio is the -more awareness of Off SBP/SBVP. IS the issue involving the im-present set-up of student go-presidenr of Flanner Hall and Campus needs This is the first time students 
[continued on page .J] [continued an page J] [continued on page 5] : [continued on page 5] 1 [continued on page5J 
I 

•. -~.,;.·.--.---.:--· 
•. f .-..
' 

~-1'·;--:-.,--:/i-:' . -,~~--:-:--.:::--:::..-;--·.~:-.:-< . :-~:.:::-:-:--~~-!:"1 ...'::-~."--.-.:.'. ·,, :·.--::---·--· . 
f 
\ 
~­
=...:.._;,__;;;;;;'"-===="'-:r:;---------~z:--.-, --­











C:Clfll~~~~~~S~~~~~~----------------F-riw_y_,F_ro_ru_~_2_2_,1_9s_o_-P_~_e2 
Friday, February 22, 1980 
Tito shows no improvement ; 
11:1 'S~m LECTURE, "generalization of executive skills," dr. aon l. brown, u. of illinois, HAGGAR AUD. spons: dept. of Psychology. · 

sends messages to world leaders 
12pm NAZZ, lunchtime concert: enc barth and wally LJUBLJANA, YUGOSLAVIA 1n Belgrade, it was disclosed same unspecified ones doctorstimperman, LAFORTUNE. 
(AP) · President Josip Broz that the #2 man in the Yugoslav mentioned in earlier advisories. Tito's doctors indicated yester­state ~overnment had for the ''The general state of health of
12: l'>pm BIOLOGY TRAVELOGUE SERIES, "soviet central day that the gravely ill Yugo­first ume sent his own mess­Preside:nt of the Republic Josipasia," dr. theodore j. crovello, nd., GALVIN AUD. 
slav leader's condition was ages to foreign governments. Broz Tno remains grave, "said stable but dangerous. Government spokesJllan Mirko an official translation of thel-3pm EXHIBITION, brigid mast and tess panfil, paintings, Kalezic said Tito had been too two-sentence medical report.
drawings and prints, ISIS GALLERY. 
ill to sign messages he himself They said the bulletins issued had approved in early February by Tiro's doctors since Feb. 102pm MEETING, discussion regarding floc boycott referen­
Chamber for sending to key world lead­gave little reason to think thedum, representatives from campbell's soup, open to public, ers . Yugoslav leader could survive.
UTILE THEATER. 
• Kalezic said Tito had author­But they said alimited recovery ized Lazar Kolisevski, Vice might be possible if his con­2:30pm LECTURE, "the photon-a unique tool for studying mustc President of Yu~oslavia's col­ditton remained stable forcd," dr. j.f. owens, florida state u., 220 NIEUWLAND. 
lective state prestdency, to send roughly two weeks. 
spons: physics dept. 
the messages to leaders includ­Tito was hospitalized in this
competition set 
ing U.S. President Carter, Sov­Slovenian capital in a clinical4:30pm LECTURE, ·"oscillating reactions in flow systems," iet President Leonid I. Brezh­center considered one of East­prof. richard j. field, nd., 123 NIEUWLAND. 
nev, and Cuban President Fidel ern Europe's best hospitals, a
The Joseph Fischoff National 

Castro. well-equipped facility he had5:15 MASS & SUPPER, spons: campus ministry, BULLA Chamber Music . Competition At least some of the messages long used for his personal
moves into its seventh year with 

SHED. 
were accompanied by messages medical checkups.
increast:d participation and 

from Kolisevski himself, Kal­He was admitted Jan. 12 with7pm BENEDICTION AND STATIONS OF THE CROSS, communay support, and may 
ezic said. a circulation problem that led to
spons: alumni hall, ALUMNI HALL CHAPEL. well represent the highest level 
On Tito's condition, "nec­the amputatton of his left leg
of chamber music ensemble 

essary measures of intensive eight days later.
7,9, 11 pm FILM, volunteer jam, concert movie, ENGR. participation yet from second­treatment are being taken,'' On Feb. 10, doctors said
AUD., spons: s.u. admission $1. ary schools and colleges nat­said the advisory read by kidney and digestive problems ionally. 
Slovenian Information Minister had ended an apparently robust 
The Joseph Fisch off National

7,9,1lpm FILM, "a little romance," CARROL HALL SMC. Mirko Cepic. recovery. Heart problems were
Chamber Music Competition is 

spons: stud. act. programming board. admission $1. Cepic, speaking in mentioned the next day. By
open to string, wind, and a special press center near the Ljubljana Thursday there had been no
keyboard players in two differ­

hospital, declined to confirm mention ofTito's heart for eight 
ent a~e categories. The Senior

7:30pm HOCKEY, nd vs michigan st. AWAY. straight days. 
that measures
Diviswn is for students, univer­the were the sity or college, up to 26 years of
Spm CONCERT, all rorem music concert presented by st. 
age. The Junior Division is for

mary'smusic dept., LITTLE THEATER SMC. . 
student's through high school, maximum age of eighteen. 


Sunday Masses at
9pm NAZZ, rock with "next", LAFORTI.JNE. 
Contestant groul?s from vari­ous schools nationwide will 


Sacred Heart Church
Saturday, February 23, 1980 converge at Century Center for 
a two-day round of rehearsals 7pm BLACK CULTURAL ARTS FESTIVAL, presentation by and performano.:t:.s before jud­creative workshop theater ensemble of gary, ind., LITTLE .ging,· culminating in a final 
5:15 p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
THEATER SMC. winners' concert on Sunday 
9:00a.m. Sunday Rev. Michael McCafferty, c.s.c. 
10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C.
afternoon, March 9, in Bendix 

12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C.
7 ,9, 11pm FILM, volunteer jam concert movie, ENGR. AUD. Theatre at Century Center. 
spons: s.u. admission $1. The Seventh Annual ] oseph 
7:15 p.m. Vespers Rev. Marvin O'Connell (Homilist)
Fischoff National Chamber 7,9,11pm FILM, ''a little romance,'' CARROLL HALL SMC, Music Competition is spon­spons: stud. act. programming board. sored by Century Productions, 

a non-profit programming 7:30pm HOCKEY, nd vs michigan state, AWAY. agency at Century Center. 
Entries for the competition are Spm CONCERT, augustana choir, SACRED HEART still being accepted. Anyone CHURCH, spons: dept. of music. interested in entering should 

call (219) 284-9135 for further 8pm NEW MUSIC FESTIVAL, concert featuring student information. composition & performers, LriTLE THEATRE SMC. spons: 
dept of music. 

_The Observer_
lOpm MASS, WILSON COMMONS, spons: gsu. Night Editor.tvtargaret Kruse 
10:30pm NAZZ, rich stevenson and dan berenato. 

Asst. Night Editor: Mike Monk , Mary Kasper Copy Editor: Mike Onufrak 

Sunday, February 24, 1980 
Layout Staff Gerdy Hewko 
Lois Kennedy, Neil O'Brien,

2pm YOUNG PEOPLE'S RECITAL, program of classical 
News Editor: Mike Lewis 

music performed by teenage children of nd faculty & staff, 
Editorial Layout: Ann Gales

MEM. LIBRARY AUD. spons: lnd music group. 
Features Layout: John Smith 
Typists: Mike Galvin, Kathy

2:30pm BASKETBALL, nd vs marquette, A.C.C nbc-cv. 
Murray, Cindy Jones, Carol 
Shuback, Pat Shaughnessy

5pm DINNER, vegetarian dinner, LEWIS HALL BASE1 
EMT: S. Paul Selavko, Liz

MENT, all welcome. spons: whc. 
Huber 




The Knights
ND Day Editor: Pat Camp­


6pm MEETING, cila, MEM. LIBRARY AUD. 
bell· 
SMC Day Editor: Kate Huff­

6:45-7:45pm MEETING, cila general meeting, there will be 

of the 
manofficer elections, MEM. LIBRARY AUD. 

Ad Design: Dave Wood, Flo 
O'Connell

7pm MEETING, an tostal organizational meeting, everyone 

castle: 272-0312 ~:Queen's Castle
Guest Appearances: Ryan

welcome, LAFORTUNE LIT'TI.E THEATER. 
Knights: 277-1691 Steve ''heroin'' Swonk, Beth 
''no doz'' Ver Berkmoes, 

8pm TALK & DISCUSSION, merton asquide in the search 
A professional Hair Cutting Salon, just for
huffman, Orty, Ann ''the

for God, james finley, spons: sacred heart parish, first in a 
goddess'' Mono~ han, ] ohn 

you, at a price that is affordable.
series of five, CRYPT OF SACRED HEART CHURCH. 
''production god ' McGrath, 
Rtck "twinkle-toes" Dohring

8pm NEW MUSIC FESTIVAL, concert featuring michiana 

Acomplete men's haircut, blow style and
area composers & performers, LITTI..E THEATRE SMC. 
Tltl ObHrvtr (USPS • IZD) Is publisfttd Monday lhrouglt FrtUy II· 

condition. 59.00 (A $14.50 value)
10:30pm MEMORIAL MASS, andy sowder memorial 
cep1 during tum aAd WIUIIIIII ...-... cavanaugh hall, all friends invited, collection will go to th~ 
The Obst!rver is publtlllld by tiM 

For you gals a complete haircut, blowstyle, 
studlntl If Natrl o.. Md Sllllt

andy sowder scholarship fund, CAVANAUGH HALL 
Mary's Cllllgl. StlblclltJtfr•r lillY Ill 

curling iron and condition. S12.50
CHAPEL. 
,.,._.fir S21 per,_ IS• 111r 


.......,If,.., The Observer, f'.O.IIII 
(AS18.25 value) · . 
Q,Nitrtbame,IIMMIRI ... s..d 

HOURS. tues-wed ~:30-6:00
Showers likely today with highs in the mid 40s. A chance of 
=
=ptld, Nllrt 011111, ,. 


a few showers tonight and tomorrow. Lows tonight in the low 
· thurs-hi 8:30-8:30
The Observer II I -·~u II U. 

to mid 30s. Highs tomorrow in the low 40s. 
Allll6ltld Prill. All ......... 

sot 8:30-5:00
fitMIII't ,..ned. 

:'-... ...· ..... . ' ' --· ; . . ~ . ..._. 
_-.. 




The Observer Friday, February 22, 1980 -page 3 
Richard Coppola 

Director Tom Hammel elected 
to withhold the other two names 
from publication. 
Hammel said last night that
Handout clarifies SMC party policy the SU will soon distribute a 
by Mary Kay Leydon StaffReporter 
Sister Karol Jackowski, direc­tor of residence life at Saint Mary·s, has issued a clarifica­tiun of the regulations regar­ding "parties'' in the residence halls. These clarifications rep­present a change in the policy as recorded in the Saint Mary's St udenr Handbook. The hand­book stares, "Un~er no ci.rcu.m­stances are sectton parttes or rot>m parries permissible.'' 
.. !'hat statement was really too vague," said Jackowski. She added, ''Of couse students may have people over. This handout was meant to explain the actual intention of the rule... Jackowski also said that next year's handbook would include the policy change. 
The information sheet, which SMC students received this week, made two major distinc­tions regarding private social gatherings in the students' 
Internship offers work experience 
For the fifth consecutive year, the Women's Advertising Club of Cleveland in cooperation with Meldrum and Fewsmith, Inc. wiW offer an Intern-In­Advertising scholarship to a college student entering their ~enior year next fall. The internship is designed to give practical work experience to an academically qualified student. 
The scholarship recipient will be employed at Meldrum and Fewsmith, Inc., a full-service advertising agency in Cleve­land, for erght weeks during the summer of 1980. The student will receive an overview of the advertising industry while wor­king on specific, agency­assigned proJects. 
Residents ofCuyahoga County majoring in the field of commu­nications are eligible for the 
scholarship. Application dead­line is February 29. 
For additional information and 
application form, please contact Prof. Turner, Dept. ofSpeech & 
Drama, or call Donna Hessel, (216( 241-2!41. 
The Women's Adverrisin~ 
· ffil'at
Club of CleveIand ts a 1 1 e 
with the American Advertising Federation. · . . .-­
rooms. First, "Social gather­ings (without alcohol) are en­couraged as long as the gather­ing does not infringe upon other residcnts' rights to/nvacy and quiet." The secon states that fin· students of 21 years or more, "social gatherings with alcohol are permitted,'' with the stipulations that : "stu­denrs under 21 are not present; guests and alcoholic beverages an: t~~ be kept within the room. 
J<Kkowski, who is also the I{esidcnce Director for LeMans Hall explained the role ofan RA under these new guidelines. .. I{ A· s are not to police the halls; if they receive a com­plaint or a phone call or see the gathering spilling over into the hallway, they have two alterna­tives, they can intervene them­selves or call the hall director to get asststance. " 
;\1ary Jane Silvia, residence dm:uor in McCandless Hall added. ~o that explanation say_­lllg, .. I he only ttme an RA wtll take auion is if she sees abuses of the alcohol regulation or of the parietal desk." She further explained, ''These clarifica­uons let everybody have a dearer understanding of the rufes, including myself, and encourage healthy social activi­tr. If 1he student i& over 21 and 
Shuttle passes sold today 
Shuttle bus passes will be sold in the dining halls today during lunch and dinner. 
Passes are good for the re­mainder of the semester and are good for 20 rides a piece. 
The will be sold for $3 a piece. 

IceCapades come toND 
The Ice Capades will be held 
d h h 
at the ACC to ay t roug
tomorrow. Information regar­
ding the ice show's perfor­
· d · Th Ob 

mances. pnn~e m e . ser­
verearher thrs week was mcor­
rect. · .c Ol
Dorothy Hamtll, rormer ym­
· · d 1 · ·11 

pte gol me~ah wmhner wt not ,perforiJl ~~ e~t..~r §. QY'.-. . . . 



Coppola appointed to new post 
Richard Coppola, a sophomore to improve cooperation amongaccounting major from Quincy, the SG branches, especially Ill., was named Student Union between the Hall President's Director for the 1980-81 year Council and the Union. last night by the Student Gov­''There won't be any friction ernment Board of Commission­between Student Government 
ers. members," he said. 
Coppola, who served as assoc­Coppola noted that his first iate Social Commissioner this and most important task will be year, was approved unanimous­choosing new commissioners ly by the Commissioners. He for the Union's branches. He had been nominated for the intends to accept applications post Monday by the Student beginning after the Student Union Steering Committee. Body President election on 
Coppola said there will not be Monday, and will select the any major changes in the union commissioners before Spring under his direction. He did break. note, however, that he will try Coppola was one of three 
<lf'plicants for the post. SU 
survey to gauge student use of and reaction to SU activities of this year. The survey will cover wants alcohol at a party, that's all SU activities from refriger­great, but it's her responsibility ator rentals to the controversial 
to act accordingly.'' 
recommendation that the Mid­
The hand-our enourages stu­west Blues Festival be discon­
dents to take responsibility for tinued. 
tht·tr own actions in "abtding Coppola indicated that he will
• by and therefore enforcing the use the survey when planningabove guidelines.'' 
Mardi Gras allocates profits; Volunteer Services to benefit 
by Bridget Berry 

James McDonnell, director of student activities, estimated that Mardi Gras brought in from $60,000 to $65,000 this year. He said that revenue from admissions amounted to about $10,000, from the raffle about $17,000, and from booths about $23,000. He added that concessions did quite well also. 
McDonnell said that sixty percent of the profits will be allocated to on-campus Volun­teer Services. ''The other forty per cent will be divided first ·among chosen charitable organ­izations in the South Bend area and then among selected nation or worldwide organizations,'' he added. 
''The decision to allocate a majority of profits to on-campus Volunteer Services resulted from the funding problems within Student Government,'' McDonnell said. "The Student Union I Student Government asked Mardi Gras for support when they realized that there was very little left in their budget for Volunteer Services, hut we had already decided to focus upon campus charities,'' he continued. 
''A dispensing committee of three administrators and six or seven students meets twice each year to decide upon who gets how much,'' said McDonnell. 
''Many organizations petition us for funds,'' McDonnell said. ''Last year many groups got .$50. I really don't know what good that did. I'd like to see us make more significant -if fewer -contributions." 
McDonnell said that the com­-nittee usually favors underpri­;ileged children, the mentally and physically hc:mdicapped and the mentally and physically :ieprived. 
''\VIe did receive a request from a group which-among other things-fights for the legal­tzatiop of ~b9-ftion ...A.s 'Y~ w~r..e. , 
already funding another similar group which gave assistance to Vietnamese refugees, we chose not to fund a group which advocated violence to the unborn." 
McDonnell said that Mardi Gras demands the active part­icipation of 2,000 people. 
Asked if he found the endea­vor worthwhile,· McDonnell commented, ''A couple of years back, there was concern about its future, but then it rallied." "The Observer emphasized that raffle ticket sales were behind. That was true. But raffle sales represent only one­quarter to one-third of the revenue," McDonnell stressed. 
"We took in more in admis­sions, he said, which made up for a decrease in gambling revenue," he said. 

McDonnell emphasized that this year's Mardt Gras organi­zation had cut expenses consi­derably. "We now save as much lumber as possible -any planks four feet or longer are stored in Michigan and reused. 
"Last year's Mardi Gras cost between $31,000 and $32,000," he said, "this year we spent under $30,000." 
The director of Volunteer Ser­vices and the director and assistant director of Student A~.:tivicies; the chairman and succeeding chairman of Mardi Gras; the Student Body Presi­dent and Student Union Direc­tor; and one or two students from Volunteer Services will meet to decide upon further allocation of funds as soon as official figures are available, McDonnell added. 
SU events for next year. 

Also last night, Hammel announced that a new SU comptroller had been selected. 
Bob Gerth, a junior accounting major from Indianapolis, will take over that spot. 
Tickets togo on sale 

Tickets for the Senior class formal will go on sale Monday in LeManshall and the LaFor­tune student center. Tickets will be sold Monday-Thursday in 1LeMansfrom 7 p.m.-9 p.m. They will be available at LaFor­tune from 12 noon-1:30 p.m. 
Ticket prices are $50 a pair. 

The formal will be held at the Marriott hotel on Michigan Ave. in Chicago. An informa­tion booklet is included in the ticket price. The dance will be held April 12. 
For more information contact Bob Carey at 232-6831 or Liz Castle at 284-4679. 


The Observer Friday, February 22, 1980 -page4 

Between Bush and Reagan 
FEC refuses to stop one-on-one debate 
WASHINGTON (AP) . The meeting, FEC spokesman Fred cover the costs of the debate. Federal Election Commission Eiland said the panel voted The FEC spokesmen said the refused Jesterday to stop a to close the file and take no agency's file on the Nashua dis­schedule one-on-one debate in further action.'' pute would be made available 
New Hampshire between Re­Eiland said the decision dis today. 
publican presidential candid­misses the case and means the Baker, campaigning in New ates George Bush and Ronald debate may go on as scheduled Hampshire yesterday, said, ' Reagan. without interference from the · ''The name of the game is fair­Sens. Howard Baker of Ten­government. ness, and it's not fair, under nessee and Bob Dole of Kansas Because the action was taken any imagination, to let that pa­and Rep. John Anderson of in a closed meeting, there was per give Reagan and Bush this 
Illinois had appealed to the no immediate indication of the forum." regulatory agency to stop the J?;rounds for the FEC decision, Baker said he had sent a tele­Saturday night debate, which Spokesmen1did sav.however, lt gram to the newspaper agree­
was first sponsored by the was oased on telephone conver­mg to share the cost of the fo­Nashua (N.H.) Telegraph, but sations with the parties in­rum, "I'm willing to pay, but it now.~ill be underwritten by the volved. is a sad state of affairs to have paruc1pants. Spokesmen for the Baker anci to buy your way into presiden­The trio had argued that by Bush campaigns said they un-tial debates, " he said. "We'II limiting the forum to Bush and . derstood the commission de­put up the chips if that's Reagan, the newspaper had cided to dismiss the case on the s what it takes to buy in. 1' chosen understanding that the cand­fi·ont-runners in the New idates, and not the newspaper, 
David Keene, political director Hampshire presidential prim­would foot the cost of the de­

ary next Tuesday, and was bate. of the Bush campaign, said giving them an advantage over Before the FEC' s decision ·he was pleased wtth the deci­other GOP candidates vying in was handed down, the Reagan sion. "We are looking forward 
to the opportunity to meet withrhe election. camp reportedly had decided to 

After a closed commtsston Gov. Reagan and discuss our
post the $3,500 necessary to 
views and positions before the ·.voters of New Hampshire.'' 

Put ''A LITTLE ROMANCE'' 
In cheir petitions to the FEC, Baker, Dole and Anderson had

in your life 
-::omplained that sponsorship of ~he debate by the newspaper would amount to a corporate contribution to the Bush and Reagan campaigns. Corporate 
J.lolitical contrihntions are banned by law. 


& SATURDAY2!23 
The Telegraph had planned toCarrolhall(SMC) 7,9llpm _j pick up aJl.the costs. 

Professor James Stewart, former director ofBlack Studies, discussed the inequalities ofthe draft in Galvin Auditorium last night. [Photo by Tim McKeoRh] 
.. 






Senior Bar 
presents 

Beatlemania Night 
Feb. 22nd 
rewarded 
plus 

"Draf! Dodger Special" 
Hotel fc Camping !ours in Europe 


Presentation with slide& 
discussion, prizes_ Sat. l'eb. 11 1:1 m ill Lll'onue!heat 
lqerimeatslD lfraveUn., Inc for laformatloa or la100llue write -­Grulll•qerbuntsbl ~nelllD& I.O.IoxlliiG 
••LafQIHI, m ,,.01 
...McNally Poll 
[continued frompage 1) 
somewhat different exposure, including favorable treatment in Gary Trudeau's "Doones­bury" and in NBC's "Saturday Night Live," which along with the candidate's generally more li\>eral positions is likely to appeal to college-aged audien­ces. Nationally, Anderson still receives only about 3% of the public's support. 
Baker has dropped to fourth place, with most of the erosion coming from the Republican and Independent ranks. His Senate colleague, Robert Dole of Kansas, has faded almost out of the race both here and nationally. 
John Connally has lost support to Bush among the Democrats, but his • overall backing, about 5 percent, is on par with his national standing. 
Phil Crane of Illinois with only 22 percent name recognition, 'ess even than Ben Fernandez of California, receives just 
2. 5 percent of the overall sup· port here. That low figure is misleading, however, as Crane has a dedtcated cadre of volun­teers here whose efforts may help account for his strong 9 percent backing of those bound for the Convention. Like all polls, the ND/SMC survey is mostly valuable in identifying current moods and trends ra­ther than in forming convention predictions. The Convention it­self is largely an exercise in organization and horsetrading with the final outcome likely to be greatly affected by which candidates show up on campus. 

For instance, Fernandez's vi­sit here last month boosted his name recognition from nowhere to over 30% and his convention appearance may also win some converts. 
Finally, the conventionout­come sometimes has had less to do with overall support than with the time of day. In 1976, large, active campaigns back­ing Mo Udall, Jimmy Carter, and Scoop Jackson battled it out on the Convention floor until after 4:00 a.m. Saturday morn· ing, when weary delegates stampeded to nominate com­promise non-candidate Hubert Humphrey . and get out Stepan Center. 
Meanwhile, President Carter has apparently solidified his lead in the Democratic race, capitalizing on strong public support received for his policy dectsions concerning the over.. seas crisis. Though the Presi­dent's support here has in­creased only a few percentage points, his overall lead over Kennedy has jumped from 29% this past January to 39% in the survey completed this week­end. 
This substantial increase is primarily due to the large drop in overall support for Kennedy. 
The results are based on 126 telephone interviews with un-· dergraduate and graduate stu­dents selected at random from Notre Dame and St. Mary's. The interviews were conducted for The Observer on February 16-18 by the McNally Research Group, an independent market research organization in South Bend. 
._,_____;.....,...~....... .._.,.....r........-~ -----••-.-•...=-•.__......________..,....,. .. '•~ ...--.........ca.,_,. ... -~~.-..._ ••--•-----•••••••c;aa... ·•••• •.., J·e,•.-.-~•._.&PtiOTC ~ • •••••.,....-... •• 


The Observer Friday, February 22, 1980 -page 5 

[continued from page 1] 
provement of social life, accord­ing to the Behney/Guilfoyle .ticker. The candidates want to :rei nstare s~c~i<?n parties and ·sponsor acuvJues on a more regular basis. "We need to sponsor an activity more than once, ~ven if it bombed the first time." They claim that if an activity is responsored, ·in­terest grows, cinng the Irish .Wake as an example. · 
Behney would like to cure aparhy on the campus by ''get· ring students interested and informed, krtowing what's 
. going on.'' Guilfoyle added that the studenrs need to know what student government is doing every day. "More often than not a day went by without Student Government men­tioned in The Observer. We have to use The Observet,'' Guilfoyle said. 
The team agreed that their pttoposals will cost a lot pf money, bur are confident they can obtain the money from the Administration. Guilfoyle said that he had a hand in obtaining $·-W,OOO from the administration this year. 
"We have practical ideas . which the Administration will ·~gree on,'' the two said. 
Behney used their security hut proposal as an example. "The huts will cost less than $2,000, considerably less than the $·40,000 obtained this ·year. 
[continued from page 1] 
vernment. 
Carey's platform does not differ greatly from those of the other three candidates in the race, bur his plan for reorgani­zing student government does. "I want to centralize and orga­nize student government,'' Carey said, ''where we've got separate groups like the HPC, rhe CLC, Student Union, the Board of Commissioners. In­stead of working at separate individual goals, we need to work toward one common 
I .. 
goa. 
Carey recognizes a large communication difficulty, and in reorganizing the student government structure he wants '· 1o have fingers reaching all the way down to every section in every dorm, so that everyone can be represented.'' 
In another attempt to alleviate student apathy, Carey wants to usc The Observer as a method of getting students behind im­ponant causes, and he repea­rc:di, stressed, "You have to have t •••• students behind you for things to get done... We need The Observer to provide the background on why stu· d(_'nts should be upset about issues like the hockey thing. We have to work together to tell how things are going on, and why ... Carey doesn't feel The Observer has been doing this sufli(iently so far. 

[continu·ed from page 1] 
Executive Coordinator of the HPC. Riehle emphasized, "We are trying to stress our ex­perience. We've been involved with student government on both dormitory and campus levels. We've dealt with the administration and we know how to get things done.'' 
Riehle believes that students should be more involved with their government and proposes some new ideas. "We're trying to put the student back into student government through an Observer column and 'gripe sessions' in which students give their ideas and tell us their problems," said Riehle. "We're also pushing for a student representative on the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees. This has never been done before,'' con­
. tinued Riehle. 
Socially, Riehle intends to accomplish a relaxation of party rules concerning kegs on cam­pus, and wishes to initiate a Social Fund providing money to gro'lps sponsoring activities. 
Among his ideas concerning . off-campus residents, Riehle plans to advocate the use of vans for transportation to and from campus, and hopes to employ his newly-designed idea of storage facilities on campus for off-campus srudenrs during breaks. 


Referendums require energy 
by Tim Vercellotti 

Issues such as the FLOC boycou do not get on the ballot overnight. Bringing a question bd"ore the student body invol­ves some . effort according to Jeft' Hawk, assistant chairman of the Election Committee. 
·'To begin with, there are two types of referendums. One involves a chan~e in the student body constitution; the other involves finding out student opinion," Hawk said. He pointed out that the FLOC question falls into the latter category. 
··Regardless of the type of issue, the group involved must present their case to James McDonnell, director of the stu­dent activities office, and Fr. Juhn Van Wolvlear, vice-presi­dent for student affairs," ex­plained Hawk. 
According to Hawk,..if McDon­nell and Van Wolvlear give their approval, the next step involves getting petitions signed. One of the require­ments for these J>f;titions is that fifteem percent of the under· graduate student body must sign before the issue will be considered for a referendum. fhe Election Committee then validates the signatures. 
··After the petitions are filled out, and the wording on the ballot is worked our, an election must take place within two weeks. The exception to this is when both parries involved agree to postpone the referen­dum," Hawk explained. 

Whether or not a referendum wins depends on the category. 
If the question involves an amendment to the student body constitution, then a two-thirds majority is needed. Hawk pointed out that the margin of majority that is needed for victory varies concerning ques­tions of student opinion. 
··In order for the decision to be valid, fifty percent of the under­graduate student body must vote. If the turnout for the student body election is poor, then a turnout of forty-five percent will be acceptable. The rssue will be decided by a si~ple majority,'' McDonnell sa1d. 
This is not the first rime that the FLOC group has attempted to impose a ban by a campus­wide referendum. Hawk recal­led that last year a similar referendum met with defeat due w poor student response. "The referendum was put to a vote last May, and there was aminimal turnout," Hawk said. 

He cited rhe fact that the issue was voted upon separately, and few people, except those with particularly strong convictions, fdt compelled to cast a ballot. 
The best way to conduct a referendum, according to Hawk, is in conjunction with the sr udenr body elections. He offered the Nestle referendum, sponsored by the World Hun· gt·r Coalition, as an example. 
"The presence of the Nestle question on the same ballot as the names of the candidates made it easier for the students to consider the issue. Even in regular elections, unless there is a major candidate on the ballot, the voters are usually apathetic,'' Hawk poi:nced our. 
As a result, the Nestle issue met with overwhelming re· sponse, and a ban was appro­ved. Mike Stegman, head of the World Hunger Coalition, gave The Observer an update on the boycott. 
''The dining halls have pulled all Nestle products from their stock. A renewal of the boycott will be decided after we submit a report later in the semester,'' Stegman stated. 
Hawk reminded students that voting will take place in the halls from 11(30a.m.-1 p.m., and from 5-6:30 p.m. 
[continued from page 1] 
· a television screen in Stepan Center which will show away foocball games · 
· sock hops after home football games 
Slatts claimed the number one problem confronting student government is a "lack of orga· nization.'' Citin~ a recent visit to an HPC meetmg, he describ­ed SG as "a clique which accomplishes nothing.'' 
He and "Uncle Keith" claim that student government is a powerless organization within the University political struc­ture. After explainin~ that No­tre Dame is run by nch alumni and elite corporations, Slatts commented, "How does a 20 year old punk tell a 60 year old millionaire what to do?' ' He said he and "Uncle Keith" will simply "do things" and "raise hell." 
"We will work w1rhin and outside the University struc· ture, '' Slatts said. He further explained that his "do things" approach to student govern­ment means throwing section parties and keggers on Green Field -regardless of rules. 
The two do not fear admini­strative repri6al in the least. "We do not <;onsider ourselves significant enough," "Slatts" explained. 
and commissionership. Neville said she has worked to organ­ize, compose by-laws for, and define the roles of the council and commissionership this · year. 
Mark Kelley, a candidate for the o-c commissionership, com­mented that Neville and the council members have had to face many organizational and security problems. They have 
"planted a _ seed," Kelley 5aid, whJCh he wants to nunure. "There is a lot of potential for growth in off-cam­pus housing,'' Kelley noted. 
"I think the off-campus com· missioner can work well within the framework of the Student Government," continued Kel­ley. He stressed the need for crime prevention and security. ··I know about crime,'' said Kelley who is currently an off-campus resident. "I've learned a lot about living off and on my own,'' he added. 
.Joe Lohmuller, who is also running for o-c commissioner, questioned the University's pol­icy regarding o-c residence. "It is easy for the University to forger about o-c _people." Loh· 
1muller said. "They are re­
moved from the University so 
their problems demand com­'plex solutions," he added. 
Most muggings occur as peo­pk are walking in ·the Notre Dame A venue area, explained Luhmuller. He suggested that better lighting and a shuttle service be provided for this neighbnrhood. 
L>iunulkr stressed the variety arhl numbt:r of students living
off-campus . 
I ' 
• 

DTOSTAL 
or&aalntloulaanm, 7:00JJD 

2
• 
,
• 
_-_j_ j 


• •ttort  s  
Carey /Marshall:  
A fresh approach  
r r  In the 1980 SBP/SBVP election, The Obseroersupporcsthe ticket of Bob Carey and Torsten Marshall. We believe that Carey and Marshall offer a fresher and by far more original ~pproach to student government than any of the other uckets. While some would contend that other tickets in the race are more experienced in student politics than the Carey/Mar­shall ticket, The Observer believes that their lack of identification with Student Government will work to their advantageToo often, we believe,those who are engrained in student government are satisfied with the few meaningless bones of compromise the Administration throws to them. Our fears about the Riehle/Ciancio ticket spring from this point Riehle and Ciancio provide the best alternative for those who prefer a conventional approach to student government. They are experienced, and present a fairly realistic platform However, we believe that they would show a reluctance to stray from traditional channels in dealing with the Administration, and would thus prove no more effective than student governments of the past. The Observer· believes that the Carey/Marshall ticket is prepared to fight for students• rights. Their election by the student body would send a message to the Administration that the era of meaningless compromise at Notre Dame is over, and that the time for meanmgful change is here. This is not to suggest that the CareyI Marshall ticket will immediately abandon the various legitimate and practiced venues of action student leaders have used in the past. On the contrary, we contend that they will, by virtue of their organizational ability, use these venues as well as or better than past student leaders. What separates the Carey/Mar­shall ticket from the others is their resolve to go beyond the conventional venues when they appear closed as they have so often in the past. In dealing with issues such as kegs on campus, support for non-revenue-producing sports, and off-campus hving conditions, alternative methods are viable. Moreover, The Observer stands behind Bob Carey and T orsten Marshall because of their intention to unity the diverse branches of student government and, in the process, bring the student bo<!Y as a whole close together. While this is an. admittedly difficult task, the organizational ability Carey has displayed as Senior Class Sttretary, as well as his firm resolve to achieve his goals will enable him to reach this ideal. &b Carey is not runnin~ for SBP to ~hance his resume. He is running because he 1s fed up with the lethargic Notr'e Dame Administration and the seeming inactivity of Notre Dame student government. We are alsotiredof the routine performance of these two campus institutions, and would like to see student government push beyond its present power status. Bob Carey and Torsten Marshall are the candidates best qualified to achieve t~se changes, and The Observer endorses them in Monday's election.  
r r ( I ( ( ( (,'I r  The tickets for Monday's election received the following endorsements from campus organizations. Endorsements reflect the view ofa majon'ty ofthe organization. Behney/Guilfoyle: Alumni Hall Council, ND VarsitySwim Team, .Junior Class Officers, Dolphin Gub Carey/ Marshall: Did not seek endorsements. Riehle!Cianca: Keenan Hall Council • Slattery/ Cooper: Did not seek endorsements.  
t (, ( ~  
~ (,  
~  
y  
f  
r.  
&  
t ~: ; fI I. '( t{  
 
1/' ~ ~· ,..,·  
~ v 'I i .I  
~  
I,  
~  


Friday, February 22, 1980 -page 6 

Farmworkers badly exploited 
After saying a Labor Day mass at"Q':_leen's" in 
Fort Wayne I went on my annual trip to the 
tomato fields in Wells County. My companion 
was St. Paul's pastor, Father Carlos Rozas, a 
Cuban refugee with a perfect command of 
Spanish. 

On the way we stopped at Bluffton's Catholic 
parish for lunch with the pastor, Monsignor Jim Conroy. He invited us to dine with his summer guests, 52 migrant worker tots, age two months to fiveJears, whose day care center, staffed by salarie professionals and volunteers, occupies the parish hall. After-dinner entertainment featured a sparkling Spanish duet by two tiny 
sopranos, one age four and the other three. 
I noticed a shortage of cribs, playpens, and· 
strollers. Three days later some friends of mine 
had supplied all chat were needed. 
Besides caring for infants and pre-school 
children of migrant mothers hard at work in the 
tomato fields and local cannery, the Bluffton 
parish has an excellent Tuesday night clinic 
staffed by volunteer doctors and nurses who 
check out the migrants' physical condition, 
prescribe medication as needed, and treat some 
of their occupational diseases, notably rash on 
the arms and legs from contact with noxious 
chemicals used on the tomato c~op. 
The going rate for picking a hamper of tomatoes -about 30 pounds -is 25 cents. Migrants who stay into October to repick the fields are paid a 5 cent bonus for hampers previously picked. (fomatoes picked at less than a cent a pound are selling for 30 to 40 cents a pound in the supermarkets. The mi~rants' "cut" is less than a cent a pound, wuh no adjustments for the condition of the crop.) The workers I talked to were cagey about how many hampers they can pick on a good da_y. Those doing well were reluctant to be specific for fear their bosses would cut their wages. Those doing poorly, mainly old timers whose speed has slowed down, didn't want to confess their poverty. The "wet backs," i.e. illegally working aliens, say nothing to anybody because the.y're 
Bishop McManus 
haunted by fear an immigration officer will · )deport them to unemployment in Mexico. 
I guess a strong man picking good crop comatoes at a furiously fast pace, 15 hampers an hour, one hamper every four minutes, could make $37. 50 for a 10 hour day not counting lunch break or a rest period. The women and youngsters in the fields have to hustle to bring in 100 hampers for $25. The growers provide free housing, e.g., one room for five or six members of a family. That saves the migrants a little expense. 
In my judgment, migrant farm wockers are woefully underpaid and badly exploited, not so much by the growers who have their own unique economic problems but by the big processors -Campbells, Libbys, etc.. whose utter contempt for the plight of the migrant worker is evident m their adamant resistance to the migrants' effons to organize a union and in their substitution of mechanical pickers to eliminate the migrants' jobs. 
I think Catholics should give heed to the migrant workers union's pleas for a temporary boycott of Campbell and Libby l.'roducts until these two food giants give some s1gn of wanting to pay the migrants a fair share of the enormous income derived from the sale of agricultural products. 
The migrants by and large are beautiful people-holy, faithful to. their families, and good-natured. The best thing for them would be to get out of the stream of migrancy and settle down where a powerful union could help them to their ri~htful share of the action. 
The mtgrants did have a good word for Indiana. "Tell your warm-hearted and kind people that we love them. By our standards, Indiana is our best State for work, honesty, and much better conditions than we'd ever find in Texas." 
On the way home I felt good for having met such lovable, family loving, simple, honest people, but I also felt some remorse for failing to do much more for them. Reprinted from The Harmonizer [Sept 16, 1979], by permission ofBishop McManus. 


Women shouldleave ND 
Donald Gerry is right, women rhould leave the N.D. cam: pus . Come ye my sisters, the 1700 undergraduate women, the several hundred graduate and professional women, the 100 or so faculty women, and the 1000 plus staff women (from the kitchens, behind the secre­tarial desks, within the cleaning closets) and let us admit we have fought honorably for equal opportunity, for the depth of traditional male chauvinism, but we are losing the struggle, on the athletic playgrounds, in the classrooms, and among the faculty ranks. 
Father Hesburgh called the recent Tide IX regulations ''completely irrational''. One senses he would like nothing better than to have some coun rule against equality on the atheletic fields at the univer­sity. 
In the classrooms, Notre Dame's legal sex quora system (even given the two new wo­men's dorms) admits 3 men for every woman, while those 50 faculty women teaching would hardly be missed since many 
N.D. seniors have never had a womanpro[anyway. Since only 6 women professors are tenured (though 60 percent of the faculty has life security of a job at N.D.), it would be fairly easy to dissipate that group, if they lose the class action discrimi­nation suit now going on. · 
The women on the staff present more of a problem, but men could learn to cook (aren't the best chefs men?}, to record. 

the exploits of their brothers, and with the women gone, cleanliness standards would re­turn to more ' 'natural'' ones. The slightly higher wages of men would come from funds no longer needed for law suits and lobbying against equal oppor­tunities, plus meager funds now allocated to women's ac­ttvltles. Much more time by male students could be devoted to academic and athletic prow­ess and supremacy with those bumptious, bungling women no Ionge~ sapping one's emotional energtes. 
But I propose a mass fern­inine exodus not to strengthen the brotherhood, but to rescue the sisterhood from the demor­alization of having our values altered indelibly in deference to male opinions. Instead of encouragement to become ''strong and sensitive, inde­pendent and alert, assertive and understanding, question­ing and curious" (to borrow S. Hennessy's phrase), N.D.wo men are exhorted to know their place, are accused to having ''all ·too bruisable feminine egos," and told that "we (N.D.) don't strive to bring in great female athletes. '' 
In the recent divide and con-. quer university strategy, wo­men athletes were to conciliate themselves with the fate of the current hockey athletes instead of struggling for their own self-esteem, their own struggle to have their exploits taken 
·seriously, in one of the few times women's issues even surfaced at the ujversity. 
Elizabeth Gilbert 

If women are to give their blood and spirit in the battle for equal opportunity, let's tackle institutions capable of change so our struggles be not in vain. Notre Dame is not one of those institutions--it maintains "wo­men' ' as a scapegoat for the problems of the university. 
This is an all . or nothing proposition. Some women can­not stay behind to clean floors, 
I'

scrub potatoes, type letters, or 
(I

be token ''mothers'' or ''sex­objects" while women are de­\ nied equal opportunities on the atheletic playgrounds, in the classroom or among the faculty 
\

ranks. Token women ar:e told 
they are the exception to the 
\1 

rule and are encouraged to define themselves as different from other women. At Notre Dame, the jokes may run against women as long as after 
~ 

the punchline, one adds, "Oh well, you're different." Sup­posedly one saves the indivi­dual by destroying one's status group, one's ascribed identity. Yet our fate as women lies in our common struggle to have the fare of all women taken seriously without feeling defen­sive about it. 
Since the University admin­istration seems intent on obfus­cating rights women already should have, should we have a mass feminine exodus? 
FJizabeth Gilbert, assistant pro­fessor ofsociology, chairs Com­mittee W, a women's group which is a subcom"!ittee oftlie American Association of Uni· versity Professors. 
(t j
l,. ..
--------------------------~ ~~---------~ ··-~ 


----~--~------.---------------~--------~-----..--------------------------------------------------~--------------­
The Observer -Editorials Friday, February 22, 1980 -page7 
' 





P.O. Box 


) NDpre-meds are active and well-rounded 
.Vear Editor: 
I would just like to make a few comments in regard to the statement made by the Provost, Timothy O'Meara, on February 12, to the Faculty Senate about the Catholic and intellectual preparation of our students. 
At one point in his talk he stated that we are not fostering intellectual curiosity in our students. He goes on to say that we are getting them into medical school but then asks the question 'Are we producing Cai:holic intellectuals?' 
I have interviewed and coun­seled thousands of premedical srudrnts over the last several years. and I must say that I have 
found· them willing to take some of the most rigorous and demanding courses that we offer at Notre Dame. These courses are taken not only in the sciences but also in the humanities. The students wish to obtain a well-rounded educa­tion to prepare themselves-for a career as professional persons. Many of my colleagues on the faculty have remarked many times, over the years, that they would prefer to have premedi­cal students in their class because they are enthusiastic, willing to work hard and make their classes stimulating. It is true that the students are grade conscious but I am not so sure that is all bad since they are goal-oriented. 
The students with whom I have dealt have certainly per­formed well in the sciences but many have expressed strong interests in many of the humanities, including econo­mics, sociology, psychology, 'philosophy, theology, engineer­ing, modern languages and history. In fact, many of our students have obtained double majors. A very high percentage of our students each year are chosen to become members of Phi Beta Kappa, not only for their outstanding academic per­formances but also for their many worthwhile extracurricu­lar activities. Two premedical students in the past five years have been chosen as valedictor­ians of the University. I have 
\\ received many letters and com­ments from the Deans of Stu­dents at medical schools throughout the country praising 
1 
the quality of the students who 
I receive their academic prepara­
1 tion at Notre Dame. 
! 
I I also believe that our students 1 are Catholic if one means by Catholic that they are inte­. rested in following the precepts · of the gospel, namely to love 1 God and ne;rs·hbor, especially . by good dee s. · Our students I 
l. j are, indeed, involved in many ,l worthwhile activities sponsored by the University. They partici­
pate in the University and hall 
1 
religious services, sing in theI various choirs, volunteer their services at Sr. Marita's, Logan Center, Children's Hospital, the psychiatric rehabilitation programs, nursing home visita­tion, CILA, Urban Plunge Pro­gram, etc., to name a few. 
I think our students ·are the best in the country and that they are leaving Notre Dame and going to the many medical schools with an inte· .ectual curiosity that will mak• them competent I?hysicians aw-l ;Jut­standing cittzens. 
Rev. joseph L. Walter, CSC Chairman Department ofPreprofessional Studies 
FLOCreferendum provides vehicle for change 
To the Students: 

Fourteen years ago Senator Robert Kennedy encouraged an audience of South African stu­dents with these words: 
Few ofus wtll have the great­ness to bendhistory itself, but each ofus can work to Ghange some small portion of events, andit is in the total of all those acts that the history of this generation wzll be wn'tten. 

Many people feel a sense of "splendtd tsolation" here at Notre Dame and a disturbing mood of impotence in the face of this world's cruelty. May I suggest that the FLOC-spon­sored referendum on Monday's ballot provides us with an ideal vehicle to ''change some small portion of events'' and thus mfluence the history of a world beyond the borders of our campus? 
Please consider the referen­dum and vote ''YES.'' 
Rev. john]. Fitzgerald, CSC Associate Director of Campus Ministry 

lifegiven for others 
a 'special gift' 

Dear Editor: 
C~ri~:;;h~~s~t{~!~~.~~:ti~I~i~~ 
Feel a Draft" (The Observer, Feb. 18). To say the least, the 
article was written by a true 
n. enm.ber of the "me" genera­t10 
Let me start off by saying that all people cannot fight in war. There are those whose con­

sciences simply will not allow
them to kill. And for that reason, there should be other ways for them to serve their country, i.e, Peace Corps, Vista, etc ... Not once did Mr. Stewart say that he had any qualms about killing. He seems to be concerned with being 
~~l~~; I l~v:b;in~ali!;'idTh! 
difference between Stewart and me is that I realize that the life I lead was made possible be­cause someone was willing to sacrifice for me. 
I was in eighth grade when the Vietnam War ended. So, like Stewart, all my knowledge of Vietnam is second-hand. I will nonetheless attempt to address each of Mr. Stewart's points to the best of my ability. 
Disgusting as it is, men must die in war; even innocent people. The question is not why, but rather, was it worth the sacrifice? For Tim Dorsey it must have been. He made the decision to go to war. For others drafted during the Viet­nam era, I cannot answer in any other terms than as an idealist. Life given for someone else must ·always be regarded as a special gttt. 
As for the Veterans who were in the hospital, I feel that each and every American is partially to blame for their situation. Captain Chris Brown, a Viet­nam veteran, told me the following: In the weeks of the heaviest fighting he checked a casualty list and found that of the 100 or so men listed, he knew and had served with 46. Yet, when he gothome to a small 
town in Oregon, the first state­ments made to him were, "Wow, you were in 'Nam! I heard they got some good dope over there. Hey, how many babies did you kill?" Not once did he hear, "Thank you for trying to help someone else because you thought it was your duty." 
Or, how about the serviceman who, after serving his first tour of duty in Vietnam, was refused a drink in a Los Angeles airport because he wasn't 21 yet. 
Finally, I would like to say this. The author writes that he will not go to fight in Afghan­istan, that he, Mr. Stewart will '' don the old adidas and revivify those latent feeling of affinity that Tve repressed for too long ... " Well sir ... keep walking, for I surely don't want to fight andI or die for the likes of you. 
I am a soldier. I am a second Lt. in the United States Army Reserve. I am also a student at Notre Dame. My job is not to kill, but to stop rampant killing­to protect and to serve, even the likes of Mr. Stewart. 
h is true that "sometimes cowardice is courage,'' but 
most of the time, as in your 
case, Mr. Stewart, cowardtce is just plain cowardice. 
juhn P. King 




Fimds column 
ondrafthumo~ous 
.a.' 

Dear Editor: 
I :want to thank Madonna Chnsrensen for her column on 

ND students suffer from tunnel vision 
Dear Editor: 
Notre Dame is more than just football and basketball . . . and hockey? Last Wednesday, my roommate discouragingly re­lated to me the fact that the Notre Dame students attending Father Hesburgh's open forum that evening had dwelled upon the point of Title IX and hockey scholarships for almost an hour. 
We both recalled the remark of a fellow student and friend. ''People here are concerned about only two things, classes and sports." It is a sad commentary about us that a fellow student sees the Notre Dame student body as having such a narrow perspective on life. Yet anyone who attended Wednesday evening's forum, heard about it, or read the front page of Thursday's Observer, might find the indictment dif­ficult to repudiate. 
I find it rather disturbing when students talk about the bottom line of the administration's ~tand being financial. What is 
t. e bottom line for the stu­
rr'h · -D~J · 
~ ·-• 

_,_ e.DUCJger > .-.·.•.. -·-···•••••-•-•••·•·•••··•-•-·••··_··.··..•.·.·_•·...··... 



ND'sNeWBt:ts
-----,}:<=.--.-:, ---------.:: ,__ -.-.. >-mx=-:=. =. -. 
. . ..... iii M~.lieaney,.S.J.Kotz 
.for anyone to believe in. any-m.ore. & But last Wednesday mght, · Father Hesburgh emerged out ofa period of long seclusion to . give his vision of ~otre Dame to a capacity cr~wd ttl the Grace Hall Ptt. Showmg ·the ·frankness which has made him wodd famous, our beloved leader ~poke candidly and bon· estly on parierals and co~ed housing, hJs involvement in the Chase Manhattan Bank, and theJutu.re of h<X:key at Notre ·Dame•.· Although Heshurgh only spoke for~m hour, almost ~H his.. Hsteners felt that tb~Y. . .·witnessed history in the 
.·. Tht>re ar~ very few things left 
dents? It appears that the bottom line is that the Notre Dame student body (the #1 student body in the world?) does not want to su.Pport any­thing less than a htgh caliber hockey program. Maybe that is why students do not support the swimming team and only sup­ported the soccer team after it established itself. 
My intent is not to reject the value (aesthetic or intrinsic, not financtal) of competitive sports, but rather to remind all of us, myself included, that our con­cerns in life should not be 
limited to what goes on  under  
the  Golden  Dome  of  Notre  
Dame.  

Not one person asked Father Hesburgh to comment on regis­tration for the draft or women having to register. No one asked him to comment on Afghanistan or the Olympic boycott or the presidential can­gidates. 
I believe that the failure to even raise such questions is symptomatic of the ''tunnel vtsion'' of the Notre Dame student body. 
John E. Lydm~ 
,:·:;::1/--­

sinati~g ptiine ministers, and inflating cqrrendes without troubling their consciences. 
· The .audience. reacted most positively, however, to Father ·Hesburgh's candid comments qn the future of hockey at Notre Dame. Firmly committing him.. self to._ studying the problem~ H~spurgh leveled a telling b~astat the gr<~up most respon~ stbl~for the present woesof the :Notre Dame hockey teamM~ the United States Government. ~itl~J>Ut a doubt~ H.E;W.'s ··myria~ of •+stupid r~ula• dons,.'' <ltlcl more spedfic~Ily~ ··•. ·...·•.. ·· ..· have ~sed a sen()us . ~Qintit only hockey, but --·.• · ··. lifestyle as.;weU. Jt; Jt1f.X:Ik~.~Y.. . · . • . ·.· .what .wdl be 
week since .>Htesbura:l:l's t~~i buf ii.t~~;; ..~~~~J ··-~~~-·Notte 
:ilf~~~~~lrJit:~~:'•Dte~ed 01:; 
•~ebf ,wa.nd' 

·.. _.· •.••. _....... oppQStt:ion tQ·. 
•··· was ·•· botn. -last .·· nigh~. Jtt the Grace, 
·•.. Father .Hesbutgb · · ·vision, of a vision of . as he cani 
< ••.•. _•. _.•..•.·...·•··.··•·••·.·•···· .·.•·..• ·. new· . ·. •.•. •. may .dismiss 
.· .. · .· ·. .· ·· .·. his· ·. ... .... words as. the > ·• •• boacd Of . ··•· > _•. ··•· ...... _.. ... . . . . .. · dfan idealis~~ ~-· •. • · .· · · ·.. · · Bank stating .···• ·• ·.·•.. ·.·. ·• ·· ··· >iS • . ..·. because they wouldn t be with'them if..tbey ha.ve never~eo to the moun­
women and the draft: I have m-.;ere unethicill.'' .Hesburg!l's t;ajri. Last.Wednesday _night,· ~ot laughed so hard tn a long statement, at least·..to this Fatbe.r.Hesburghle_.d__·. ·a_·group of ttme. *reporter, is very reassuririg. skep{lcs up ,fPe, treacherous . .· N()trc Dame students can now slopes:,~ die v~!!w from the 
Barbara A. Driscoll .:;.p;rw;:er:..,,::c"~ ,~·~·~.thank you, 
a 

administration of either institution. Editorial Board and Department Man~ers 
The news is reported as accurately and
(-TheObserver-
as objectively as possible. Editorial& Editor-in-chief ........Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ..................Mark Perry represenr the opiruon of a majority of Managing &litor..........Diane Wilson Feat11res Et/itor.....Kathleen Connelly Box Q Notre DafiU, IN 46JJ6 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editoiial Editor..............Ann Gales Photo Editor ..............Doug Christian 
opinions and letters arc the views of Se•tor Copy Editor .........M. Onufrak The Observer •s an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Exec11tive News Editor...... Mike Lewis B11siness Mll,ager........Stevc Odland
} 
~published by the studeols able to all members of the community, News Editor ....................Mark Rust Protl11ctio• Mll~~~~ger.... i)ohn McGrath ofthe University of Notre Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News Editor .................Mike Shields A.dvertisillg .M.Iuwgn-..\Mike Holsinger IDCI Saint Mary's Colle,e. It does nor opinions on campus, throu&h le~... is 'SMC News &litor........Margie Brassil <:o,.~..................~fl ~IUDi~ oec:essarily rdlect the policies of me encourf~Fd_. -· · · Cir&Milltio• M.la.n-......Gtq Hedaes 



around him like the thumbprints of 6od on a busy universe. 
Darbatius (Secundus) O'Gill, I call him; to his friends, simply D-2, a nickname more appropriate to a parking lot than it is to a candidate for an apostolic succession in a ministry of dog to man; a cocker spaniel, American Kennel Club-regi­
. stered, nine weeks old inheriting, for a little while, the dog tag of his namesake, like a younger brother forced into hand-me-downs, while he is saving up money to buy a new pair ofpants. Outfitting a new dog with a food dish and a water bowl is simple enough: such a table is not set with Tiffany's china. A visit to a shopping
r 
mall will supply young Darby wnh all
r 
r the vanity he will ever need: a collar, a leash, a ball he can chase, a toy he can chew on. What is needed is a job description, a word portrait of the artist as a young dog; a testimonial, perhaps, growing out of the personal ·experience of the Senior Darby. Unfortunately, no diaries were kept, no letters are extant, no memos were left, to be handed on to the present incumbent. One dog never met the 
Ret'. Robert Gnffin and Darbatius Secundus [photo by Tim McKeoghJ 
On Monday evenin~, the , C?ld · 1 havrng ended a long, hard day on the Champ, Darbatius (Pnmus) 0 Gill, battleground. and I had a Final Cigarette together; Captams and the Kings depart. Old then, with him wrapped in a blan~et, popes die, and new popes succeed we made the trip to the dog hospual them; and there is a continuity of where that veteran cocker spaniel presidents swearing an oath to defend went to sleep, the hound of heaven at the Constitution. The humble officers last in possession of the fields of · too need their replacements; so, glo;y. On a warm day in April, the fresh on the final pawfall ofDar_batius ashes of hts burnt-out life will return (Primus) comes the puppy tread of to Nnrre Dame for a quiet burial in a Darbatius (Secundus): young foolish spot plentifully visited by the falling and full of expectancy, scarcely leaves ot autumn that he loved so aware of the pawprints he walks in; a much to greet. A small beast with a regular]ack Kennedy ofa pup, brash lame leg takes up scarcely_ any ro?m and irreverent toward the tradition of at all for his winter nap. S1de by s1~e the Elder Statesman; not really aware with the wilder creatures, he will that there has been an Elder States­sleep in an armistice of contentment, man, though the evidence is all other; the understudy was searched for, and found sede vacante, within twenty four hours; then hurriedly hustled onto center stage with nei­ther script nor rehearsal to guide him. Movie scripts in the Forties 
were based on less dramatic stories of green talent replacing the Star. 
Maybe, among orders of brutes, where innocence has never been lost, it is not necessary for old dogs to teach new dogs young tricks. Maybe it's only creatures who have known sins that have fallen away from the original, eternal plan of the maker. Belonging to the late Darby's modest estate is kind of scripture, a genesis narrative which--for all I know dogs may believe in place .of a gospel of redemption. 
God summoned a beast from the field and He said, Behold man, created in my 1mage. Therefore adore him. You shall protect him in 
the wilderness, shepherd his flocks 
watch over his children, accompany 
him wherever he may go--even unto 
civilization. You shall be his compan­
ion, his ally, his slave. 
To do these things, God said, I endow you with these instincts uncommon to other beasts: faithful­ness, devotion and understanding surpassing those of man himself. Lest it impair your courage, you shall never foresee your death. Lest it impair your loyalty, you shall be blind to the faults of man. Lest it impair your understanding, you are denied 
the power of words. Let no fault of language cleave an accord beyond that of man with any other beast--or even with man. Speak to your master only with your mind, and through honest eyes. 
Walk by his side; sleep in his doonvay; forage for him, ward off his enemies, carry his burdens, share his afflication; love him and comfort him. And in return for this, man will fulfill your needs and wants--which.shall be only food, shelter, and affection. 
So be. silent, and be a friend to man. Guide him through the perils along the way to the land that I have promised him. This shall be your destiny and your immortality. 
So spake the Lord. 
And the dog heard and was content. 
Evidence, that has bite to it, 
prohibits the canonization of canines as a tribe more virtuous or unfallen. than the rest of us; but the words will serve for a truth that may be used as an epitaph for Darbatius Primus. Darbatius Secundus has his own legends to create. I'll not ask him, only nine weeks old, to live his life in the shadow of a great tradition. Being a healthy, happy puppy is all the greatness I will ever need from him. 
Good night, Darby Primus. May. flights of angels sing thee to thy rest. Welcome to Notre Dame, Darby Secundus. I never said I didn't love you. 

CINEMA --ON CAMPUS f 


at 's All This, Then? 
Take the Money and Run on Thurs-' 
CINEMA --OFF CAMPUS 
Chris Cipofetti 
day and Friday, February 28 and 29, at 7 ,9,and 11. Engineenng Auditor­
The )erk at 7:30 ancf 9:30, Universityium. Woody Allen stars as an Park I. A riches to rags story starring , incompetent, mild-mannered holdup · 
Steve Martin. 
man, with a big problem; he writes 
The Last Mam"ed Couple in Amen·ca 
stickup notes that nobody can read. 
at 7:45 and 9:45, University Park II. 
With Louise Lasser. 
Starring: George Segal, Natalie Volunteer jam Festivf!-1, on Friday Wood and Dom DeLuise. This is the comic story of a couple whose
and Saturday,_ February 22 and 23, marriage becomes jolted fromEngineering Auditorium at 7, 9, 
friends' divorces.
and 11. Good-time concert flick. 
The Fog at 8:00 and 10:00, University A Little Romance on Friday and Park III. Strange forces are set afoot when a deadly fog enshrouds North­
Saturday February 22 and 23, at 7, 9, 
ern California.
and 11. Carroll Hall (SMC) · PERFORMANCES --OFF CAMPUS 
Deathtrap on Friday and Saturday, February 22 and 23 at 8:30. MorrisPERFORMANCES --ON CAMPUS Civic Auditorium. Ira Levin's devil­ishly amusing murder mystery whose· Concert on Saturday, February 23 at intricacies of plot are just clever and
8:15. Sacred Heart Church. August­funriy enough. Sponsored by the ana Choir, one of the best university Broadway Theatre League. (Prices:choirs in the nation, will present a Main Floor and Balcony --$11.00,
spec.tacular program of beautiful $8.00, $5.00, and $3.00) · 
mUSIC. 

California Suite Friday and Saturday,
Concert on Wednesday, February 27 Feb. 22 and 23 at 8:30 p.m. Four at 8: 15. Library Auditorium. William vignettes of visitors to a California 
• Cerny, a pianist, will perform. 
hotel. Call 234-5696 or 233-0683.
--------·-­



.._

The Observer Friday, February 22, 1980-page9 

Stevers speaks on Latinliberation 
1· 
!. 
..,f 


SMCmusicfestival begins Friday 
by Terri Karpowicz 

SaitH Mary's College Depart­n:ten ~ of Music will sponsor "A h:·suval of New Music" today th_rough SUI:day. Hailed by Tzme Magazme as "the world's best composer of art songs,'' Ned Rorern will be the guest lecturer. 
The second annual music festi­val is open to the public and students are encouraged to 
·a~ tend the free concerts. Friday mght the concert will feature St. Mary's students and faculty performing pieces composed by Mr. Rorem. Student perfor~ mers and composers will be the focus of Sacurday's program. Sunday night, the final perfor­mance of the weekend festival will be ''one of the larges;
• 

concerts of it's type in the an~a, ·' according to Prof. Bnggs, SMC coordinator of the event. h will include some of t.he finest _composers and per­formers tn the area. All pertc.>rmam:es are in the Little 
Theatre,  Moreau Hall  at  8:00  
p.m.  
Mr. Rorem will also  teach  a  

masrer class to interested stu­dents on Friday afternoon at 1 p.m. 
Known as one of America's foremost composers today, Ned Rorem has composed three symphonies, three piano con­certos, six operas and various other musical selections for theater and choral. In 1976 he won the Pulitzer Prize for an array of orchestral w~rks and is also the author of eight books. 
world market. The migration of citizens from rural to urban society increased the number of potential students with rights to an education. 
A new law in 1968, extended education to eighth grade and changed the curriculum from college preparatory to profes­sional training. Yet in 1972, 5,000,000 children were still not registered in school, Sr. Aline explained. 
Differences between private and public schools account for the separation of the wealthy and the poor, she continued. The quality of a private educa­tion is superior to one that is public yet is more costly. 
Cost is only one of the obsta­cles that a poor child confronts, however. The oblis.arion to help support one's famtly becomes a burden if one wants to pursue an education. In effect, the Brazilian administration favors a wealthy citizen with a college education to a poorer citizen with an inferior education, she added. 
by Patty Sheehan 

The parallelism between socio-economic status in Brazil and development of its educa­tion was the topic ofa lecture by Sr. Aline Marie Seevers in Carroll Hall Wednesday night. 
Sr. Aline spoke on the present situation in Brazil with respect to her personal experiences. . 
Sr. Aline was the Director of the Collegio Santa Maria in Sao Paulo, Brazil from 1968 to 1970, and coordinator of pastoral services for the Catholic Edu­cation of the State of Sao Paulo from 1975 to 1977. After 19 years in Brazil, she has return­ed to serve as a member of t.hc General Council of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. · 
Refering to her lecture, Sr. Aline explained, "When I thought of a title, my first choice was 'Education and De­velopment in Latin American countries.' But I preferred my second choice of 'Education and Liberation.' I chose 'liberation' because that is what education is all about.'' 
According to Sr. Aline, formal education in Brazil, as in other Latin American countries, is a liberation and a tool of deve­lopment. Unfortunately, the function of economic develop­ment has categorized the socie­ty into classes either affected or not affected by education. 
Those not fortunate enough to receive education have been intellectually stifled from criti­cal awareness and social reali­ty, she said. 
From 1500 to 1930, the vears of colonization to industrializa­tion, Brazil required many un­skilled workers to help with the large demand for imported products. Thus, Sr. Aline said, education was not of primary importance and few colleges were developed. 
With the rise of the industrial revolution, the process of sub­stitution of imports required laborers who were fairly literate and the demand for more education was apparent. A national plan was issued in 1937 promoting free and obligatory education up to fourth grade and offered professional train­ing to the poor. 
This pla·n, combined with eco­nomic privileges for the few, further delineated the social classes, she said. 
A military revolution spurred 
the reorganization of internal 
consumption in relation to 
Sr. Aline noted that, "Consci­entization'' is the goal towards which education strives. This process involves dialogue with the citizens to establish a workin~ vocabulary expressing the opmions and needs of the community, then using this vocabulary to create an aware­ness of objective social reality. 
The Sisters of the Holy Cross, in conjunction with the Catholic Education Association, have been helping the Brazilian citi­zens to become more aware of themselves as people, not ob­jects. the association encoura­ge~ t~~ citize~s to participate in actlvtues destgned to develop Christian unity. 
These projects are specifically geared towards families, both poor and wealthy. 
Sr. Aline noted that one of the most positive developments is· a summer volunteer program for the whole community of Sao Paulo. Among the subjects pursued are catechism, human 



G.S.U. 
February Mass Saturday lOPM 
WILSON COMMONS 
development, and teacher training. 
Several graduates from Saint Mary's currently participate in t~«: edu_cation P.rogram while hvmg with Brazilian families. 
· Education provides not only liberation but also a sense of togetherness towards a com­mon goal. 
In rc:lating her m?st fulfilling expenence, Sr. Alme describ­ed, ·:There. were three days of meeungs wtth over 100 officials from different areas of Sao Paulo, each one with his own set of pastoral priorities. After these three days, all of the priorities had been narrowed down to five important ones. Everyone had concentrated on what could be done as a whole instead of what was importan; to his area. That is when I felt a real sense of Christian unity." 
Sr. Aline Seevers' lecture was ~he second in a series pertain­mg to the course "Christians 
·and ] ustice" offered at Sainr Marv's. 

HOME OF THE ORIGINAL 
Stalled Pizza 
WE'RE BACK 
and looking forward to serving you again 
Tuesdaythru Saturday 4pm -llpm ornerof Spring & 13th in Mishawak 
SUNDAY·~----:---::---=-­


JAZZNITE 
At The 

LIVE ENTERTAINMENT ~1\trS-He.liiJ 
from 7: 30to 11:30  ;JJ)  
Featuring...  ~.  
THEDUNESJAZZ  ... :..  •  
ARTET  a1~ak aS"'"'".,  
Don't Forget Our  2885 U.S. 31  

-
lln!..1..
-· 
Mar. 4
;:;;;:-­
lin. 4 
~ 
Mar. 5 
w;a-:­
Mar. ;
Wed:'­

IC 1.11
[A IIA• 
X I X X X 
X I X X I 
I I 
I I 
I :l 
X 




PLACEMENT BUREAU 
2-2o-10 

Main Bulldln& 
Jot lJITDVlEIIS W! OPE!< TO SENlOIIS o\IID GUIJUATE STVDa!TS U THE ...-r .um OJlGUIT 
CUSSU • • • • • • • • AHT WMO Ilfl"F.Im TO HAft INT!JVIIWS ICIST RAVE A a»W'L&TID JlalFIIZ (I!ClST!I.\TlOII) 01< FlL! AT THE PLACI!IIENT IVUAU •.•••••••UGlSTii.tlOII lJITDVliV SllJt-UP SHEETS AHD EMPWYER LITERATUJtE AlE lN llfXIoll 213, ADilllllnATiCIIl' ILDC. 
C'ONPUTt !WLOYER SPECIFICATIOIS ON D&CRUS, JOB TITLIS, .LOCATIOIIII AJfl) CITUIIIIBlP ::i~!:"0~ 111:~~ HAHUAL, EXCEPT FOR THOSE !HPLO!US ADDED lillie! Till 
1'11! SIGII-UP RliOD IS FJ.c»> 8:00 A.M. TO 5:00 P.M., IIJIIDAY TIIIOOal lBUISDA1 
UClllliiliC l'!llUARY 25 POR liiTElVl!'\15 SCII!OOl.&D I'OR TR! WEI!I[ OP IIAI.CII 3. ' 
PLL\S! NOTE IIIT!RVl!W LOCATIONS AT TlMI! OF SlCII-UP. 
YOU ~ST SICJf FOR TOUJl l.NTUVI EWS PI.ISOIWJ.Y. 
X/_ 

~~I.T. Lincoln Laboratory ~~:-r Coocollod.
-
HCI. Corporation All Ill for Sale.. I ln Hkt and Kt;t for Manq~t Train-• for Hi~hiaan ad Indlna. 
I I. I I. 
X 
U. S. Air Force 1M in all diaciplinu. 
F, W. Woolworth ec:.pany All BU. 
X 
X 
Arvin Indultdea. Inc 8 in ME. ££_ 
R. K. Donndley 1o Sana 

Ct1l.anae in Price btiaator requ.ire.ent). 11 in !conI..Ath 9 hours of Acct. All IIA with 9 boure Aeet. 
1 X 

la,.~aco Inc. ~~~ 
~. 
I 
In Aeroaeace/Optical Dhiaion BJo! in EE. 
K.iaberly-Clark Corporation 11J11 in ME. 
X X 
t.roaer Cc.pany B in Lib. Arta and Bua. ,.\d, 
Noble ltocuD' a.lnc. B in all diadpline•. 
t 1 I X 
X X 


United Statea Cyp•.-C011panv B in Ch£, EE, cE. KE. 

X X X X Texu lnatnDenta. Dbital Syata.a Group 81'1 tn EE, ME, MEEl, DIE, t:oa.p Sci. m': 8 in Acct, Fin, fi&t. HBA with Acct, Ftc, Hat bkgrd or conctrn. For: P'roduc:t Planning and Colt Acct. Location: HoUiiton, f)(, 

Baaberaer 'a B in Lib. Arta and Bua. Ad. 
X CPC lnt~rnaticmal, Inc. I~ L.vl.r'.J" Food Procuaia.g. BM ill -ChE, HE, !!. Procua Ea&r-R~D.7 /r""' Argo, IL. Penll. Ru. Vha required. 

-
X 
I 
I 
Blue Croa1 ad. llue 8\i.U of I.DdUU. I ia kct. (lleacheduled fro. Peb. 1.5) 
Equitable Life Aaeuraa.c:a SocietY of Jlev toft B la all clieciplinae. 
General Koton Coreoratloo MIA with Acct or Pta bk&rd or C:OO.CU'!l. 
Gu.y F. Atldaaon c.aox a 1n Cl!, H!. a io lfot. 
Mattood Steel Corporation B 1n ME, !1, llet, Chi, ti!IO. I 1A Aeet. 
U. S. liteel Corporation I ln EE. HE. Kl!t. 
J.noco j"'i';lAcct • Fin. 
AtehiaOil, Topeka aDd S.mta 7e lailwar cmeey 8 in Cl. 
Faetorr Mutual !YiMerty A1!110clat1oa I la all lqr ud Sci dbcipUnea. 
llouemll Inc. I 1n EE. M!. ec.p Set. 

Merc.atJle Tru.t Ccep.my I 1n Fla, Acct, Mat. MBA. 
X K 
X X X K X X X X' 
X. 
W. H. Brady CoapanY 
B in Lib. Arta with atrong buaineu orient•tiota. All BBA. (Reli!Ch~duled f roa Jan. 28) 
John Hancock Mutual Llfe B in all dbc1plinea. 
Inland Stael Ct.pany. General Officu t in Lib. Arta. lua. Ad. and Enar for Cua:toaer Service and Salea Trainee. H in Econ. MBA with Acct, Fln, Stat bkgrd or conctrn for Conault ina Dccupat iona -Ope rat ions Syateatiii Analyat and Ctnance TrainE"ea. 
Oac:ar Mayer ' eo.rany 
(Not~ chanae £ro. Spr1n& Suppl~nt) B ln Mkt, Kat-teA with Mkt. Mat bkard or ('onctrn. IH Jn C£ •nd HE. 
Jlat.tonal lank of Drtroit All lalt. 
U. s. bvlr~L•l Prot~etlon AaeftCY 11m in a.r.:, II!: and Envircm.ent•l Enar. 


• 

. --­
The Ob5erver 

Friday, February 22, 19MO -page 10 
------.., Judgeallows juryto consider previous Ford violations 

WINAMAC* Ind. (AP) -The judge in Ford Motor Co.'s reckless homicide trial told the jury yesterday that it should consider the auromaker's 1972 conviction for violating the Clean Air Act when evaluating the charges stemming from a fatal Pinto crash. 
Pulaski Circuit Judge Harold 
R. Staffeldt said that although the clean air case was unrelated to allegations that the Pinto was recklessly designed, it could reflect on the credibility of defense documents in the cur­
rent trial, which ended its seventh week yesterday. 
Chief Ford attorney James F. Neal argued that the Clean Air violations were unintentional, that Ford discovered and repor­ted them voluntarily to the 

federal government and even helped draw the indictment.
~LEARN~ 
Ford pleaded no contest to 350
• Business in the British University Systelll 
counts of violating the Clean
• Drama with the Staff of 
Air Act and was fined $7
the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts 
million.
• Fashion Design and Merchandising and many other­
''I don·' t know whether the juty can get over the impact of 350 counts of false statements to the government, even after we show that we rook this to the government ourselves;" Neal said. 
The criminal charges against Ford stem from· the August 1978 burning deaths of three young women in a 1973 Pinto that exploded when hit from behind on a northern Indiana highway. The state contends F~:>rd recklessly designed the Pmto fuel tanks, knowing they were likely to burst into flames in rear-end collisions, but sold the cars anyway without ma­king repairs or warning the 
public.  
Ford  has  claimed  the  Pinto  
was  at  least  as  safe  as  other  
subcompacts.  

The 1972 conviction concerned false statements filed with the federal government about emis­sion levels of 1.6-litre engines. Ford engineers had failed to report maintenance on emission test vehicles, as required by law. 
Herbert Misch, Ford vice president for environmental safety engineering, said his staff simply had used the wrong computer printout in its federal report. 
Misch said he reported the errors after talking to Ford chairman henry Ford II. 
Prosecutor Michael A. Cosen­tino said the 1972 conviction ''attacks the credibility of the defendant (Ford) and its vera­city with the federal .govern­ment." "Ford Motor Company took the transgres­sions to the government and blew the whistle on itself,'' Neal said. ''I view it as Ford Motor Company's finest hour. l' ve never been prouder of my clienr. I've never been pmuder of American incindustry.'' 
"It lays to rest a11 this non­sense of who is moral and who is immoral.'' 
Traditional Programs at University of London Colleges 
(e.g. London School of Economics, Queen Mary, Kingsl 
••• .Draft 

~LIVE~ 
in fully-furnished, centrally-heated accommodations 
[continued from page 1]
Reservations available for one semester or for a full year. 
~RSVP~ 
government's right for peace­
to the long-established, fully-accredited, coed program 
time conscription. At the same STUDY ABROAD, MARYMOUNT COLLEGE, 
time, however~ he detailed a TARRYTOWN, N.Y. 10591 (914-631-32.00) 
government's right to draft during wartime. with certain lim\tations such as conscien· tiot&. objectors. 
--------------------------------·····------------------------
Stewart then proceeded to ad­

dress the issue from the view­point of the draftee, claiming that if a state were perfectly democratic, ''An indtvidual 
DON'TSTAYATHOMETONIGHTII 
probably has the moral respon­sibility to accept conscription.'' 
CHECK OUT THIS STUDENT SPECIAL 
''Let me hasten to add that it was this criterion of reasoned deliberation and public input 
WED & THURS AT THE 



RamrodBar 
that was violated during the Vietnam war -the public was
4-7oz beers for 51.00 
mislead," Stewart said, "so I ~ beJjeve that ex post facto,
(while supplies last) 

in'd'ividuals did not have the responsibility to accept con­
pool, pinball and 

scription for service during the Vietnam era.''
jukebo>e 

Stewart explained that one oi the requirements for a just draft is to ''eliminate the possibility of an individual's status from giving him the opportunity to 
bring your id 
RAMROD 

avoid military conscription.'' Economic considerations dur­
511 S MICHSl 

in~ wartime, Stewart said, re­
qutre that the least productive
DOWNTOWN 

workers fight the war, and that college students should be ex­
SOUTH BEND 

empted because oftheir greater potential contribution. This po­sition is somewhat defensible, according to Stewart, but it assumes that, ''Members of different racial-cultural groups are randomly distributed across occupations and institutions of higher education.'' 
They are not, he said, and this explains the disproportionate number of blacks who served in Vietnam. This inequity in the draft, according to Stewart, "stems from the inequity of civilian society.'' 
That social injustices in the draft reflects the inequities of society at large was theme that permeated Stewart's discussion and made it impossible for him to propose easy solutions. He did, however, make three speci­fic proposals to make the draft more equitable; 
-have black organizations like Urban League and NAACP do draft counseling 
-black leaders should hold out support until a firm commit­ment is provided that blac~ 

inequality will be addressed. 
-entend the basis for conscien­
tious objection to allow alterna­
tive service to promote econo­
mic development in depressed 
i?ner-city and runi.l communi­
ties. 
A person in the audience pointed out the necessity for draft counselin~ claiming that it generally reqUires good educa­tion and arricualtion to convince a draft board about conscien­tious objector status. Stewart and the rest of the audienced expressed their agreement. 
Hengesbach discussed the dr~ft from he~ persona~ view­pomt concernmg questions a­bout women and the draft. She matter of factly stated that: 
-ERA and the draft are separate issues. 
-Reasons for women Jjoining. the militiary are the .same as a man's. 
-If men are drafted, women should be also drafted. 
A priest and a group of nuns expressed amusement when Hengesbach proposed a simi­larity between motivation for ~ntering the ministry and the military. A seminary student questioned the similarity be­tween devoting oneself to Jesus and devoting oneself to war. Hengesbach responded by say­ing the sense of belonging to a structure organization was si­milar. 
Hengesbach defended combat roles for qualified women say­ing that she had both a daugh­ter and son and that she could not say one life was more valuable than the other. 
Equal rights mean equal re­sponsibiltty,'' said Henges­bach, "if you deny these re­sponsibilities you are only half a person.'' 

Students,faculty participate in Mission Care Progratn 
by Mary Beckman to assist with hospital care, food, shelter, and clothing. The 
Four-hundred-and-nineteen students will receive a monthlu students and several adminis­news letter informing them of tration and faculty will be the Sisters' efforts. Recently, participating in the Student one of the sisters returned from Mission Care Program this a visit to a Cambodian mission sel?ester at Saint Mary's. The Samr Mary's Spiritual Commis­and is organizin~ a slide show sion starred the program this to help commumcate their ef­mo~th i~ a~ effort ro financially forts. assist mtsstons of the Sisters of the Holy Cross and to create campus awareness of their ef­fnrrs. 
. .. Irish

The program is an offspring of Student Concern for Cambodia which was a three day effort 
rcontinued from page 16]
that took place before Thanks­sophomore Michael Wilson, giving. At this time masses who leads the team in steals
were offered, collections were and blocked shots in addition totaken outside the SMC dining averaging 8. 5 points per game.
hall, and a news letter was Guard Artie Green providesdistributed explaining the Cam­some valuable support off thebodian situation. 
bench, as he ranks fourth in Each month for the rest of the scoring with a 9.4 average. The Irish have won the last
pledges will uonte $1 to the two contests against Marquet­year Mission Care Program 
te, defeating the then number­Sisters of the Holy Cross. The one ranked Warriors 65-59 at sisters send this monthly aid to the ACC in 1978 and taking a 
65-60 decision last season inSouth America and Cambodia 
Milwaukee. 
_~~~ _____ _______ ---·-.----­
------~~~~~--~=-~~~~~~==~~~~====~~~~~~----~==~------~~-----~--~ 



The Observer Friday, February 22, 1980-page 11 
-

Vance fails to rallysupport for Olym.picboycott 
LONDON (AP) -Secretary of Despite the French opposition State Cyrus R. Vance said at the to an Olympic boycott, State end of a European tour yester­Department spokesman Hod­day he failed to win unanimous ding Carter told reporters the support among America's ma­Umted States has only JUSt jor allies for a boycott of the begun the process of enlisting 
Moscow Olympics m protest of backers for the boycott. "This Soviet military intervention in is an idea that has come to a 
Mghanistan. number of countries and that number will grow,'' he said.
Concluding a tour that began Tuesday night in Bonn and then West German Chancellor Hel­
took him to Rome and Paris, mut Schmidt has indicated his Vance could count only Britain country will delay announcing a as a decision on a boycott until May
firm public supporter of Presidtnt Carter's decision to 19, the deadline to accept or 
reject the formal invitation from boycott the Summer Games in 
the Soviet capital. the Soviets to take part in the Summer Games. 
The secretary encountered the The Italians reiterated tostiffest opposition in Paris, Vance that the government haswhere he had talks earlier in the not yet decided to back a
day with French Foreign Mini­Pedestrians beware, wet we11:her returns to the Dome,puddles dot the campus and environs
boycott.

ster Jean Francois-Poncet. due to a premature spell ofwarm weather. [Photo by Tim McKeogh] France has arguing that a boycott would disrupt East­
West detente, and Vance ap­parently failed to alter that 
Storms rageon in Southwest ; Bob's Western 
pOsition. At a brief news conference on 

Shop
the steps of the Foreign Office turbulent situation in towns 
after conferring with British 20866 Pierce Rd.
(AP) -Floodwaters gushed ~"we haven't even had time to Foreign Secretary Lord Car­
over the tops of overloaded figure out how may square lakeville, Indiana rington, Vance refused to be .dams and broke through levees miles of desert are affected,''
drawn into a discussion of the Tum 90Sf at the blinker
yesterday across Southern Cali­said a spokesman for the Cali­French stance. He would only fornia, sending thousands of fornia Department of Forestry. lighton U.S. 31 South say, "The French have not yet people fleeing the desert resort ''The water's coming out tooarrived at a final decision. I said 
I was seeking a coordinated regton of Palm Springs and fast." Boots, shirts I beltsI hats (strawand 
inundatins a hotel and shop­About 100 National Guards­response, not that everybody 
had to agree with the United ping distrtct in San Diego. men were flown in to Palm felt )with many new feathers to 
New rain from the sixth in a Springs to help restore orderStates.'' 
series ofPacific storms over the and guard against looting.. choosefrom.He described his European past nine days, which have left Many evacuees were taken to 
talks as "very useful" and said at least 31 people 4ead and two emergency shelters at two 
Open 7daysaweek JO:OOamto 7:00pm
he found "general objectives." damage in the hundreds of high schools while the manyBut, he added, "There are milions of dollars, also threa­hotels and motels in the area 
differences ofopinion on how to tened dams in Arizona, Idaho lowered their rates-for flood 
------------------. ---~----­
-~-­
carry them out.'' and Utah. VICtimS. Vance told reporters in Paris, A seventh storm was heading • 'They came through with a ''There was a great degree of for the coast last nig_ht. fire truck and a loudspeaker,'' 
" . : ~Qrby's Friday
similarity on the analysis and Water cascading off the desert said Mrs. Jane Hoff, who ;was 
·-­
~­

origins" of the situation in mountains about 100 miles east forced out ofher home a second 
February22
Afghanistan, "but some dif­of Los Angeles tore through time since Saturday. "I was ferences on actions remain.'' four levees and swirled through scare~ to death.'' ' 








:······ 

He refused to say what the chic resort communities that Fire officials there said 1, 300 
..,_ ,...-----~----.-;;;---_.,... -----~--3pm -7pm
differences were. are home to 9,000 people. people were evacuated when torrents of rain washing off the San J acintc Mountains burst 
OSCAR'S
Olympicsite levees along the Palm Canyon Wash and poured into three foothill developments in Palm 
1st Anniversary Party 
Springs. Another 1,200 were evacuated from San Jacinto on the western side of the moun­

Mondale expects alternative 
(AP) •. Vice President Walter The USOC said it will not tains.
Mondale said yesterday the make a formal decision on 
A bridge to the community of

United States expects to an­whether to back Carter's boy­
Andres Hills washed out,

nounce a site for alternative cott plans until its House of Olympics in about two weeb, Delegates convenes in April. stranding 50 residents there 
with no ~ater, telephone or

but the president of the U.S. But Kane has said the USOC sewer service.
Olympics Committee said he ~xpects to suppon Carter. 
''We warned them to evacuate 

feels the administration's deci­Carter ~-.lS said he saw no 
· twice,'' said Fire Department

sion to boycott is not irrevoca­P.Ossibility ?fchanging his J>?Si· ble. tton even if the :SOvtets wtth­spokesman Julie Baumer. She 

75*
said an enrire block of homes in

draw between now and the stan''Only the foolish and dead~ ~y 
the Araby Drive area was
of the Games.

anything irrevocable,'' USOC "We will not panicipate in the expected to be lost to floodPresident Roben Kane said 

Olympics in Moscow,'' State waters.
Thursday, appearing on NBC. 
Phoenix, Ariz., remained a

Department s~kesman Hod­"The Games don't take place 
divided city with huge traffic

ding Carter saad Wednesday. 
until next ] uly, the ftrst part of 
jams developing at the only two

The president urged Ameri­August. . . conditions may 
bridges open across the swollen

cans to continue fuiancial con­change, and we hope that 
Salt River. Many schools were

tributions to the USOC and thesomething will happen to per­closed.
Olympic committee said itmit our athletes to take par:_t. •' 
The San-Diego River-normal­

would continue the .of
Mondale, campaigning for 
ly only a trickle -grew 7 feet 1980 LENTEN 
himself and President Carter, deep in just four hours and SERMON SERIES said 23 nations now support the floods spread through Mission 
U.S. boycott of the Moscow Valley, home of San Diego'sGames and others were .. lean­biggest hotel and shopping 
He wa1 In the ftrm of God He took the form of a slave in~'' against sending teams. district. 
' We never expected unanimi­Water was 6 feet deep in the 
Fr. Marvin O'Connell Fr. John Fitzgerald, esc 
ty,'' Mondale said. Hungry Hunter restaurant. 
"Obediently accepting doth on a cro11"
At least 23 persons have been
Mondale repeated the admini­
Mar~.h 9
killed in storms in California,
stration's hope that a neutral, 

Fr. Austin Fleming
with four dead in Arizona, one
~rmanent s1te could be esta-· 
in Utah, and three in Mexico. 

"The name above every other rtame" "Jesus Christ Is Lord"
blisbed for both Winter and 
Estimates of the damage from 

March 23
Summer Games, ''so we don't 
March 16 
the storms, which have dumped

get into this every four yea.:s." selected to recognize the ath­
Br. Joseph McTaggart, esc I. Fr. Michael McCafferty•. CSC 
more than a foot of rain since 

at Feb. 13, climbed to more theCarter bas said the United letes who have been training as 
SUNDAY VESPERS
States will nor send athletes to Olympians," Kane said. 
Moscow because of the Soviet Lord Killanin, president ofthe $355 million, mostly in Califor­
7:15PM

miliwy intervention in Af. International Olympic Comtnit­nia where floods and mud~ides 
have already destroyed· 110 

SACRED HEART CHURCH line of Wednesday for the U.S. squad would put a damper homes and damaged another
ghanistan. He had set a dead· tee, agreed the absenee of a 
LADY CHAPEL
1,350.
Soviet Union to withdraw. on the Games. 




Friday, February 22, 1980 -page 12
The Observer 
lnAFL-CIO 


Woman takes leadership post 
BAL HARBOUR, Fla. (AP) been set aside for minorities. Until his retirement last Nov­
The male-dominated AFL-CIO However, Joyce Miller, presi­ember the late AFL-CIO pres­agreed yesterday to set aside dent of the Coalition of Labor ident George Meany opposed strongly held tradition and Union Women, hailed the making exceptions to allow a name at least one woman to a action as ''a tremendous move woman and more minorities on top leadership position for the that is much stronger and more the executive council. first time in the 99-year history than I had expected.'' But Kirkland broke with of American trade union federa­Kirkland denied the council Meany upon his election by tiOns. was exhibiting "tokenism," calling for a change in tradition. 
AFL-CIO President Lane and other AFL-CIO leaders said He noted that the AFL-CIO 
Kirkland announced the federa­they thought the council had constitution's only requirement tion's all-male executive council gone as far as it could at this for membership on the council would set aside two of its 35 point in reaching out to women is that the candidate belong to seats for a woman and a and minorities. an affiliated union. 
. . . 

mmon_ty representative as Although several women hold The AFL-CIO's_leadership has vacanCies occur. high elected posts within indivi­come uner growmg pressure to Several council members are dual unions, none has ever sat alter its tradition because of the expected to retire this year. on the leadership council of the dramatic rise in numbers of 
The move, which was initiated AFL-CIO nor its forerunners, unionized women over the past and promoted by Kirkland, was which date back to 1881. Blacks decade and the high percentage criticized as being inadequate have held seats on the execu­of minorities in the labor by the only black member now tive council but never in large movement. on the executive council, numbers. The AFL-CIO estimates that Frederick O'Neal, president of The barrier to the election of about 30 percent of union Associated Actors and Artists women or nonwhites to the members are women and 17 of America. executive council has been the percent are mmonttes. 
"It is a little bit late and does custom that only general union not constitute a serious convic­presidents are eligible for mem­tion toward women or blacks,'' bership. There are no women Tickner third O'Neill told reporters, adding prc:sidents of an international that more seats should have umon. 

Heiden captures.fourth gold 
LAKE PLACID, N.Y. (AP) -youngster, was as relaxed as ''I think there is a rut in the ice Eric Heiden established himself Heiden. ''I was very nervous,' I and I dido't really step in it but as one of the all-time great before the race, she said. "But just the pressure from my left Olympians yesterday by win­everything went well. I had foot goin~ around the turn ning his fourth speed skating hoped for the gold medal but br.oke the Ice and I fell into it,'' gold medal of the Winter nothing is sure. I had decided to he said. Olympics, and Linda Fratianne take whatever comes." "Icame pretty close to falling moved into second place in She led after Wednesday's and I had to put my arm down figure skating and had a good first run with a time of 1:14.33. but it didn't sit in my mind too chance for a gold medal. In the second run yesterday -long after that. It passed pretty 
Robin Cousins of Britain won 1,231 meters with 50 gates-she quick and I was able to concen­the gold medal in the men's trate on the race again." figure skating competition yes­Asked about the pressure he

XIll Winter Olympics
terday as East Germany's Jan felt before the race, Heiden Hoffman finished second and said ''There was pressure from Charlie Tickner of Littleton, Co­myself just because I wanted to lo., was third. skate well and it's a distance I 
Hanni Wenzel gave the little Lake Placid 1980 like to skate. So in that way principality of Liechtenstein its there was more pressure but first Olympic gold medal ever turned in only the third fastest from the public and the press, it by winning the women's giant time, 1 : 2 7. 3 3, but her total of wasn't that bad, really." slalom ski race. 2:41.66 was enough to giver her His coach, Dianne Holum, 
The 21-year-old Heiden won the gold medal by almost a half disagreed. "We came into the 1, 500-meter race in Olympic second over Irene Epple of these games with more pres­record time of 1: 55.44, makmg West Germany at 2:42.12. sure that any other athlete, and him the first man in history to Perrine Pelen, 19, of Greno­he's been able to get himself up win four golds in one Winter ble, France, moved from ftfth in for each race," she said. "He Games. One woman, Lydia Wednesday's competition to fights right to the end. His Skoblikova of the Soviet Union take the bronze medal in secret is all the fight that's has done it -also in speed 2:42.41. Her teammate, Fabi­inside of him.' I skating wuh four golds in 1964. enne Serrat, finished fourth by His Olympic record in the 
Heiden, ofMadison, Wis., has one-hundredth of a second and 1,500 meters of_l:55.44 edged o~e more chance in Saturday's broke into tears. Kai Arne Stenshjemmet of Nor­10,000-meter race, an event ''This is the fourth time in big way, who skated with Heiden, about which he was slightly races I have been behind her by and won the silver medal in worried because he has not hundredths of a second and I 1:56.81. Norway's Terje Ander­skated this year against the don't like it," Pelen said. sen won the bronze in 1:56.92.


BUY3••• 

other racers. Wenzel had begun to build a Tom Plant ofWest Allis, Wis., Heiden was relaxed and reputaion as a runnerup. She was 12th and Craig Kressler of chomping on gum at the post­won the silver medal in the Midland, Mich., 13th.
•••GET I FREE 
race news conference. When downhill race earlier this week Four fast young skiers from asked how it felt to be the first and last season she lost the East Germany broke the tradi­
(of comparable value) 


man in Winter Olympic history World Cup tide in the last race tional domination by the Soviets to win four golds, he threw his of the year to Annemarie Mo­and Scandinavians in the wo­hands in the air and yelled ser-ProeU of Austria. men's 4 X 5 kilometer cross·
1he 

''Wow!'' But last night she would stand country relay race. Each woman He also had an easy-going at the top of the winners' stand raced five kilometers for a attitude about Saturday's race. as the band played the tune of combined time of 1 hour, two
Sub 

"IfI skate well, I'll be happy. "God Save the Queen." Liech­minutes, 11.10 seconds. The lfl skate poorly, I'll be upset, It tenstein, which has a popula­four are Marlies Rostock, Caro­

really doesn't matter whether I 
win or lose, just as long as I do 
Machine 
NOT APPLICABLE FOR SUB-CLUB 
my best," he said. Wenzel, a 23-year-old native
2426 LINCOLNWAY WEST. MISH. 

259-8110 
of West Germany who moved 
52313 USJI NORTH, SO. BEND 277-6355 
with her parents to Planken, Liechtenstein, when she was a 

March I 9-lpm 

SADIE HAWKINtS PARTY 
at Guiseppie's 

Sl.OO per penon t~nlmiled beer liiD's sponsored by SAPI 
tion of 22,000, uses the same la Anding, Veronika Hesse and national anthem as Great Sri­Olympic tO-kilometer champion tam. Barbara Petzold. The Soviet 
Heiden's victory yesterday Union and Norway won the gave the U.S. team seven silver and bronze medals. medals, all in speed skating.the The American quarter of Ali­soviet Union and East Germany son Owen-Spencer, 26, of In­each had 18 medals, with the dian, Alaska; Beth Paxton, 19, Soviets leadtpg in gold 8-7. of Morehead, Ky.; Leslie Ban­Nol"Vfay moved into third place croft, 20, of Paris, Maine, and ahead of die U.S. in total Lynn Spencer of Anchorage, medals with 9 but the U.S. was Alaska, took seventh place a­third in gold. mong the eight teams in 
The American ream had not 1:06:55.41. . won four gold medals in a The U.S. Hockey team faced Winter Games since 1952. The its biggest challenge today as 
U.S. record in golds was six by medals competition began in the 1932 squad in the last that spon. They meet the games held in Lake Placid. tough Soviet team which beat 
Heiden had to overcome a slip them 10-3 in an exhibition game in the third tum when he almost in Madison Square Garden fell. before the. Olympics. 
----~~ ---~---............. 

The Observer -Sports Friday, February :l2, 1980-page13 
.. 

Flenner Cafe J?resents
. . . Hanzlik 
[continued from page 16] 
All-American lookslike cow dung. 
It.all started rather auspiciously. With 6: 16 left in the first half, and Marquette leading 28-16, t~e official running play-by-play sheet reads simply: "Substitution: Hanzlik for Batton." It was the last time his name appeared in the substitution column because he never left the game. . 
At halftime, Marquette had a 14-point lead and Butch Lee had six points. At the final buzzer, Notre Dame had a six-point victory and Butch Lee only 14 points on a six-of-19 shooting performance (that's 33 percent for all you Atts and Letters majors) five turnovers and one technical foul. The technical, by the way, came when Lee drove into Hanzlik who got called for blocking and fell to the floor. Lee, frustrated by Hanzlik's tenacity on defense, kicked the sprawled-out "swingman" to draw the infrac­tion. When the whole thing was over, Lee wouldn't talk and Hanzlik wouldn't brag. 
''All week the coaches were working with me which led me to believe I would play a lot today,'' he told the pack of reporters who demanded to.know how a bench-warmer stopped a star..~'Ooach'Phelps told me to play a step and a half off ofhim and keep a hand in his face. I did what I 'Yas ~old and it worked, 1 guess." 
''But hey, this is not a one-man game. I tried to· force him to where my teammates could help out and that's why we neutralized him." 
But Digger Phelps knew better. 
"We won the game today because of Billy Hanzlik,'' he told the same . group of writers who were, by this time, starting to believe all that stuff about le~ends, miracles and rags-to­riches transformations that supposedly happen all the time at Notre Dame. 
"I though Hanzlik should have been MVP," Digger added in light of the fact. the NBC's award went to Kelly Tripucka, who did no less that score 15 points in the second half. ''We all believed Billy could do the job defensively against Butch Lee and he did.'' 
And from thatday on, Billy Hanzlik has become known as Notre Dame's defensive specialist. The guy who always draws the tough assign­ment of guarding the other team's top scorer. 
Hanzlik today looks back on his performance 
against Butch Lee and says he's had other big 
g~imes 4efe~sively, but that just may have been 
h1s ·best. . 
'Tve guarded some great players," he points 
out. "Guys like Jim Paxson, Michael Brooks 
guys who know what to do with a basketball. But 
Lee was definitely one of the best." 
Defense for Hanzlik was never an accident or a 
lucky break. It has always been something he'·s 
worked on because he learned at a very young 
age what a lot of players seem to forget -it is an important part of the game. 
"I learned what I know from a man named 
Densil Hollis who coaches at McGill-Tollen High 
School in Mobile, Alabama," Hanzlik reveals. 
"I played my freshman and half my sophomore 
year there and Coach Hollis would spend about 
7 5 percent of every practice teaching defense. 
He taught me how to play team defense and the 
fundamentals of the defensive game." 
But the most important thing he taught Hanzlik 
is that playing defense is hard work. 
"It definitely is," stresses Hanzlik. "Especial­ly at Notre Dame because we have a lot of different coverages to learn. Coach Phelps really stresses defense and I think his system has made me a· better defensive plarer.'' . 
This Sunday Hanzlik wil retrace his roots and attempt to pull the curtain on another high-scor­ing Warrior; senior guard Sam Worthen. Hanzlik says Worthen is a good overall player who shoots well, has great moves and good speed. He says it won't be easy to guard him but that Digger and the coaches have a plan and if he executes it, Worthen shouldn't cause too much trouble. 
And if that happens, Marquette should go home losers again this year. Just like they did two years ago. Only this year will be a little bit different... at least for Hanzlik. Because even if he plays as well as he did two years ago; even if he stops Sam Worthen cold; and even if Notre Dame wins handily it won't be quite the same. 
But then again, how could it be? That game was his game and no one ever gets more than one at Notre Dame. But if he's good enough in that game -as good as Bill Hanzlik was in his ­then that one game is all he needs to buy a place in the book we were talking about earlier. 

• 


Ohio State, Indianawin ; Purdue upset 
OSU-68,N-western-59 
COLUMBUS* Ohio (AP) -
Ketvin Ransey pumped in 20 
potlliS Thursday night to lead 
li-1-1 h ranked Ohio State -to a 
6H·5~-vretc>tyover Northwestern . that kept the Buckeyes in the thick of the Big Ten basketball race. 
Indiana slipped by host Michi­
gan State 75-72 while Purdue, 
previously tied with the Buck­
eyes and the Hoosiers, dropped 
a 76-6-1 decision at Michigan. 
The Buckeyes pulled away 
from the Wildcats, last in the 
league, in the final minute to 
score their lOth victory in 15 
Big Ten starts. Ohio State ran 
its overall record to 13-6. 
Northwestern, 3-12 in the 
league and 8-16 overall, never 
permitted Ohio State to manage 
more than an 11-point lead and 
moved within two points of the 
Buckeyes with less than four 
mmuf't'!ii•to play. 
Dlinois-60,Minnesota-58 
CHAMPAIGN* Ill. (AP)-Per­
r9 Range' fed an alley-oop assist 
to Eddie Johnson with four 
seconds remaining in overrim~ 
w"give Illinois a 60-58 win over 
Minnesota iti a crucial Big Tf'n 
conference basketball game 
Thursday night. 
Illinois took possession with 17 
seconds remaining in the over­
rime when Gopher's guard 
Mark Hall committed a trav­
eling violation and worked the .pall for the ·winning score. 
Minne~ota, which-was one 
game but of a three-way ,tied for 
first place going into the con­
rest, fell to 8-7 in the conference 
and 15·9 for the season. 

l'he lllini moved to 7-8 in {he B1g_ Ten and 17-10 overall. 
Michigan-75 ,Purdue-64 
J\NN A~BO~ • Mic~. (AP)'"~'-'-'l' 
Mrchrgan. s K~tth ~mrth scored 
all 1_.3 of hrs pomts 111 the ~econd 
half ro spark the W?lvennes to 
a_ 75-64 upset vrct?ry ov~r 
1)til-ranked Purdue rn a Brg 
Ten basketball game Thursday
light. 

Purdue managed a 35-29 lead 
1fter a poorly played first half. 
The Wolverines came out and 
·1it seven straight shots while 
mtscoring the Boilermakers 13­
~ uto ·start the second half. 
M:arty Bodnar hit a jumper from 
the corner 3:30 into the second 
half to finally push Michigan 
ahead 39-3 7 and the Wolvernies 
never trailed again_. ­
Wisconsin -62,Iowa-58 
MADISON, WIS. (AP) -Free 
throws by Claude Gregory and 
Dan Hastings in the final 
minute Thursday preserved a 
62-58~~ig Ten basketball upset 
by Wisconsin over Iowa. 
A basket by Steve Aite '>rought Iowa to within 57-56 1fter baskets tty Gregory and Wesley Mcltliews had given tqe Badgers' a 57-54 lead with 
;3 ; 1 0 to pIay. 

·---­
Indiana-75 ,MSU-72 
EAST LANSING* Mich. (AP) ­Mike Woodson continued his astounding recovery from back surgery Thursday night, sco­ring 20 point~ to help Indiana hang on to a share of the Big Ten basket-ball lead with a 75-72 vicrory over stubborn Michigan 
State. ~Woodsdn, playing for only the third time since he was side­lined Dec. 18, notched 13 of his 
~oims in the second half as the Hoosiers shrugged off a sloppy stan to post their lOth confer­ence victory in 15 games . 
Michigan State, defending NCAA champion, fell to 6-9 in the Big Ten and 12-12 for the season. 
mENDOZA'S GUITARS, RfPAIRS, ACCESSORIES 1mile notth of campus
272-7510 


This series is a ''first'' in its effort to enhance public aw3:re~ess of recent develop~ents in the science and practice of psychol~gy a~d ?f the potenual 1mpact of research findmgs on the daily lives of us all. Thts week s toptc ts: 
PAIN: A FOUR LETTER WORD--explains how the language ofpain-­throbbing, beating., itching--is becominga valuable diagnostic tool, and discusses some novel behaviormodificationsand hypnotic treatment 
techniques cu"ently us~ inipain clinics.. 
at 11:45 
_.7


... .-::a..ca .............,QIC. ....., 
The Rubber Band 
-.. 

Friday Feb 22 10pm In the basement 
· offlanner 

LEGAL 

BASEMENT, NOmE DAME LAW SCHOOL LEGAL ~ID & DEFENDER ASSOCIATION ROOM 8·12 283·7795 
11am · 2pm CM· F> other times by appointment 
WE HANDLf ALL I:INANCIALLY QUALIFIEO STUDE:NTS & S~~FF 


-----------------------~

I PINOCCHIO'SI 
I Pizza Parlor 1
I 
l7eorgetown Shopping Plaza 1 

I WINTER SPECIALSJ 



l$2 OFF-~-$lOFF-I 
I any large pizza ; !lny small pizza I 
~-----~-----~~~----------~ 
1 Good Jan. thru Feb~ 1980 only 1 
I . 1 
1 New Sunday Hours 
I I 1-IOpm I 
I HAPPY HOUR f II 4-6pm ~ 1 1 Monday thru Friday ON 
I 


L------------------~------J 

MASS followed by

supper 
every
FRIDAY at the 

individual should have. 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
• 

.. • 
The Observer -Sports Friday, February 22, 1980 -page 14
, 

Pigeons by Jun McMclure/Pat Byrnes 
...Belles 

-~~~~

-.. 



Molarity by Michael Molinelli 
QlJEE.N ELJ246ETH .1!.
JI£Y, PION, PJD YOU FiFAD 

SUE'S FINAt.JOJJG Jr IN
11{AT THEY FINALLY DIS· 

J-IOI'bfl. OF I-I£R DAUbHJER.,­
CLO~ED WJ/0 IS FINANOfo.h 







ACRO&S 25 Alphabet 44 "That -11 A Reed 1 Medieval letter hay!" 12 Safety zone

The Daily Crossword 

45 Hoosegow 13 Disorders
chest 26 Wane 5 Silvery 27 Combined 46 Have coming 21 Baker's fish 29 Color 48 China's helper 10 Maneuver 30 Noises: former 23 Deed: Sp. like a fish abbr. 
leader 24 Lost for 14 Vault 31 caruso, 49 Mining item words 15 River for one 50 Antelape 26 Restaurant 
embankment 32 Division 51 Sanction patron 16 Clear­of a poem 53 Seagoers 28 Tiny one thinking 33 Formerly, 54 Short-29 Be silent, 17 Dad once spoken in music 18 New York 34 Walks back 56 Actual 32 Actor city and forth 58 SteinbeCk Michael 
19 Mishaps 36 Broad boat character 34 Military 20 Hash marks 39 Oldtime 59 Clear the personnel 22 Maria or newsman ·blackboard 36 Good show 
Charlie 40 Put to the 60 Town in initi:11S 24 Long-gone test Nevada 36 Eagle 
bird 41 Before 61 Soaks wearers 62 Talking one 37 Catch up to 63 Cruising 38 Existed 
39 A Reiner DOWN 40 Inferior 1 Jungfrau, 41 Blue-pencil for one person 2 Newsman 42 Fix over 
Harry 43 -de corps 3 Army men 45 Profession 4 Armadillo 47 Loosens 
5 Tilted 48 Billiard 
downward shot 6 Crowd mixup 51 King Kong's 7 Holiday Fay 
times 52 Plane B Grassland surface 9 "-a Dance" 55 Time period 10 Hog fare 57 Mauna ­

© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. .All Rights ~eserved 

[continued from page 16] 
by Armstrong to put her team 
ahead by nine, the Belles' 
offense froze and Manchester's 
caught fire. 
In the final ten minutes of 
action, Manchester tallied 24 
points versus Saint Mary's nine 
to complete the upset win. 
''It gave them an advan::age,'' 
said O'Brien of her team's two 
prior wins over Manchester, 
''Both teams had to go for 
broke in the tournament, and 
we had the pressure on us to 
beat them the third time in a 
row. 
"We needed to pick up the 
momentum when we weren't 
hitting the boards toward the 
end of the game. We gave them 
two and three shots every time 
and you're not going to win 
when you do that,'' finished 
O'Brien. 
Manchester did outrebound 
(42-31) Saint Mary's, but the . .most startling statistics lay in the scoring column. The Belles shot 64 times, hitting 25, while their opponents attempted 81 
shots, making 30. 
Armstrong, a guard from Syl­
vania, Oh10, paced Saint 
Mary's with 20 points and four 
assists while King tossed in 18 
and hauled in 15 rebounds. 
Three Manchester women hit 
double figures: Cathy Nelson 
(18), Beth Dolhrman (14) and 
T.racy Kendall (10). 



( 

All classified ads 1nust be received by 5:00p.m.~ two days prior to the Issue in which the ad Is run. Thl Obllrwrbffice will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classifleds must be pre-pald, either in person or through the mall.






ClassifieC.s 
Mike 3406. Mark M. fur, 289·1262, after 11 pm. -----------­
Desperately need Dayton tix 3588. 315 Sarin presents: Hedonism rn honor of P. Johnsor.
Notices 

Need 4 Marquette tickets. Friends ' Younf and Old, should ~ut
Riders needed to Conn. N.V. C. area "A TLE ROMANCE ' their tonight. 
All sister hedonist are once
fromlndyHAVEtoseean NDgame. L1 In
for long weekend leaving 2/27 5:00 again welcome ...
Ralph 7912. lives. Friday 2/22 and Saturday 2/23;
Spring Break: Drtve'n save ,o pm-Call P. Floyd 1678. 7,9,11 pm. Carroll Hall SMC. ------------
Daytona and stay at Whitehall Inn only --------------Need 1 Marquette GA tix. Mimi Pacyna,
Call Mike

$99. Drlve'n save to Ft. Lauderdale Je t'alme.
at 1627. Trlsh and Kurt: 
and stay at Riviera, only $109. Both l'homme secret.
To see them Is to retch. 
hotels on the beach for &days/5 nights 

NEED 2 GA tickets for Marquette. Signed ZETO

For Sale
·extra nights optional. Limited space: Cathy M.,
Call Dave at 8696 or 8697.

Information: Call Ken 283-1387. -Tomorrow Is your day! Happy 19th
To Mary, a blonde junior at SMC: 
I so enloved the time to a one-of-a-kind gal! Have a happy
Desperately need 2 GA tickets to short we
Tuesday II ND·SMC Day at Royal For Sale -Fisher MC 40200 stereo day.
Marquette. Dad's Birthday Saturday dance1 Thursday night at Mardi Gras.
Valley Ski Resort! 2 for 1 lift tlckats system. Excellent condition, real You move so nicely. I was holding Your friendly neighborhood pizza man
and I have no present for him. Will
3-10 pm, also 2for 17·10 pm M-Tu-Th. cheap. Call 1943. 

trade student ticket for Marquette and money at a black jack game when we 
2 chair lifts CLOSEST SKI AREA TO Happy Birthday Debl Geroll When
DePaul and $$or just$$. Call Marty met, and would like to partner dance. 
CAMPUS. Buchanan, Michigan. FLASH: Photographic equipment for are we having dinner?
1684. Please call Bob at 82H.
sale •• fantastic bargains! --earners, Kevin lenses. Call 232-4129. 
Desperately need 1·2 student tix for Beth-
One of the angels is turning 21! Since
Marquette. Call John 1143. Roses are red,
SALE on all books In our literature violets are blue, Frank is yet to arrive on the scene ... 
section. used 25
Lost&Found New and titles -Kisses, hugs, etc. are welcomed.
Need 2-4 G .A.'s to Marquette or I can't afford
percent off. PANDORA'S BOOKS, Luv, Llzzer, Baby, A&R
DePaul. Will pay good $$$. Call Joe To send either to you.
937 S. Band .~ve. 

at 3439. Pete
Found: Who left mittens at ITK party? To our dearly beloved B.H.,Call 8201 for them. BUNK BEDS of varnished hardwood Hope your day is as wild as you are.
Wanted: 1 GA ticket for the DePaul Looking for fun?
beams, handmade (dismantable). May the men be as plentiful as the
game. Money's no object. Call PaJ Join our ski trip to Bayne Mtn.
Lost: Gold heart Initials A. H. If found holds box-spring and mattress. Call drinks (or vice-versa!) Love,
8710. Limited spaces available -only twenty
Please call 3016 (Barna) SMC 4427. K,S,&M
left! 
P.S. Don't miss t~1e "express"!
-------------
Need 1 Marquette GA. Willing to Call John 3235. 
Lost: Minolta SRT·100X camera and 
trade student ticket or pay$. Call 7921

Minolta Autoflash. Hefty Reward and Bella ragazza,
Yes fans, Andrew Rukavina will be on 
no dumb questions. Please call Mike Have a merry 21st!!
I need 2 GA tickets to DePaul game. campus for his birthday celebration.

Tickets
at 6775. Love Mike & Pete
Will pay your price. Anna SMC 5322. Audiences will be held tonite begin· ning at midnite at senior bar. 
Lost: 3-chain gold bracelet. If found Michelle,
Need GA tx to any home b~ball game. Need tix for Marquette game. Pay top
please call 4-1-4146. Bracelet has To a future N.D. cheerleader from
Paul 3121-$. Call 8959. Teri,
great sentimental value. another. Happy 21st birthday.
Happy 20th to a very beautiful True mega bucks for DePaul GA's. Need 2 Marquette tix. Bob 1811. person .. . Tonlte will be a note you
Lost: Brown suede coat w/hood, lost probably won't remember!! You'll ND/SMC WOMEN:
You nama SS. Mlck 8212.
Sa. night at Mardi Gras. Pockets Feel nostalgic? Well, like, the first
I need iickets for the DePaul game. probably be hiding out on the "back 
contained keys, money and glasses. floor of Howard Hall is having a rully
De Paul tickets • 2 student tix for sale. 1-4 either student or GA. Will pay streets' Have a great day!!
Please call Dave at 11 1l. groovy 1960's party, man, you know?
8858. • your price. Call Al1156. Love Pam 
Fri., Feb. 22. 9:00pm-? Come dressed Lo;t':-Calc;atoT:"T;;;;;jnstru;ents as anyone from the '60's. Like, Wow,
TWO STUDENT TICKETS IN PAD­Need 1 student DePaul ticket. Any Yes-You can be apart of An Tostall!! 
SR 51·11. Kevin 7374. Man! Freaks me out!!
DED SEATS FOR SALE TO DePAUL price!! Call Tim • 8605. Share In the wildest, zaniest, craziest 
Jimi, Janhand Jim.
adventure of spring semester. Organi­GAME. CALL MIKE OR JAY ATLost: A light-beige suede jacket. Has 
1989. Tickets, Beer, or Big Bucks for 2 GA zational maatlng Sunday Feb. 24th 
a hood and is lined with fur. Missing Dear John Scully,
DePaul tickets. Call Matt DeSalvo 7:00 p.m. In LaFortune Theater. 
from Keenan-Walsh booth at Mardi­Word has that you tinkle on the
Help! Need 1 Marquette Student or 233-6090. EVERYONE WELCOME-No expar·
Gras Saturday night. Will offer $30 piano on weekends at Louis'. I heard
GA badly. Kevin 1602. lance necessary.
reward for Its return. Call Ruben any Need student and GA tx for DePaul See you there! you play it too. time at 3273. 
Need General Adrcission DePaul tix. b-ball game. Paul 3121. 
To all the participants of the 1980
Call VINCE 3578/3591. SENIOR CLASS PUNK-OUT 
Found: 10k gold ring. Says FME 1980. Fisher Hall Duck Races:
Need 2 student DePaul tickets. Call HAPPY HOUR AT BRIDGET'S 
N.D.Ave. Goose's. May the best duck "swim". Just
Found on near Will trade 2 student DePaul tickets for SMC 5278. FRIDAY FEB. 22 4-8P.M. 
Please claim in Managers office in don't forget the contracts you signed!!
2 Dayton G.A.'s. Call Mark 8648 or
LaFortune. 

John 8646. WATCH ANNE O'ROURKE LOSE IT 
Hey Guys ·It's Mary's birthday. Give
AT THE PUNK-OUT HAPPY HOUR,
Lost: A heavy, rust-red winter jacket her a call. SMC 4909.
FRIDAY 4-8 P.M. BRIDGET'S.
Still need'em badly ... GA or student 

Personals
from Mardi-Gras. Reward. Tom-1811. 

tlx for Marquette. Call John evenings To the host of last Friday night's Bulla
at 288-5891. Charles"Hollywood" Dyer for UMOC 
Lost: At Goose's Happy Hour last Fri. Shed Bash·
P.J. Stapleton er al ... Chucky Is Yuckyl
1 pr. Mickey Mouse sunglasses. If you Please accept my apologies for my ob·
My father needs a ticket for the Thanks for your southern hospital­
have any knowledge of their where­noxious behavior· hope it doesn't ruin
DePaul game. Will trade my DePaul ity. We had a great time. Take care Have you been to The Commonwealth 
abouts, Please Call Mary SMC 5207. you for life. Again, I'm sorry.
student ticket and $5 for a DePaul and thanks for everything. Your's in yet? 
Slugger

G.A. Call Wheat at 1171. Dixie. The Notre Dame 14. 
Lost: A silver engraved cross pen at Put a little romance in your life. Mardi·Gras backstage room. Call Teri,
Good money for 7 Marquette tix. Call Andrew J. Rukavina Venture over to Carroll Hall (SMC)
Kevin 3670. You may be over the hill but I still 
Tom 8391. Happy Birthday to the 2nd foxiest and see "A Little Romance" Fri., Sat, 
.... love you. A very happy 20th birthday!
guy I know. 7,9,11, p.m.
Found: Silver watch. Call 1078 to Love, Angle
2 Marquette GA's needed big bucks. Love AngelaIdentify. Dave 
SUMMER TRAVEL IN EUROPE.
Call Chris 3302. 

Jer Bear
Beth M itcheii-LONDON PROGRAM ·with trave( in 
Keep your hands in your pockets
Money is no object. Need two Congratulations on asuccessful first Ireland, Scotland, England & France. 
(pocket?) if you're not looking for the
Marquette G.A.'s for junior pare~ two decades. I hope that the rest of ROME PROGRAM with travel in 
whites of my eyes.
weekend. Call 8437 or 8436 after your years may be as good to you as France, Germany, Switzerland, and 
Jane

For Rent 
midnight. the last two have been to me. Italy. College Courses available in Petie EDUC, history, Italian, Soc. and LEARN INTERVIEWING SKILLS Need many DePaul G.A. tix $$$. Call history. For more Info call Prof. A.R. FOM THE MEN WHO ACTUALLYWe rent dependable cars from $7.95 8436 or 8437 after midnight. To the EXCLUSIVE Happy Hour Black SMC 4948. At home 272-3726.. DO THE INTERVIEWING!!!!!! Come 
a day ann 7 r.Ants a mile. Ugly 

Gang: We've made it over the hump. to a\workshop on Feb. 26 at 7:00 p.m.
DucklingRent-A-Car. 921 E. Jefferson 

Please ·Help! Parents coming to NO Goose's-Be there-Aloha Yas -You can baa part of An Tastall I I in the Student Affairs Conference
Blvd. Mlsh. Ind. 255-2323. 

and would love to see Marquette Organizational meeting Sunday Feb. Room. Two men from Proctor and game. Good money for 2 GA's. Julie Fisher Hall-24th 7:00p.m. In LaFortune Theater. Gamble will be there to give tips on
Rooms. $40 month. Near rides. 

2194 Where is my Doors albufTI? I am No experience necessary. interviewing. Sign up in the Career
233·1329. 

loosing my mind without it. With· Development Center, SMC.
-------------r---­
---------OSHKOSH partiers deperately need drawl city-please return Immediately. Sheila Callahan will be available to Bugs, Marquette tix. Call JCZ 234-6348. Reno receive birthday hugs and kisses today Why so Negative?!! 
Wanted 
at 237 Walsh. Happy 20th, She! Need 2 Marquette GA 's for my New Jersey Club bus for spring break Notre Dame welcomes the ROCK! parents' only. chance to see an N.D. Is now taking reservations. Call Chris To Kelly, Dean, TAT, Morry, Dave L., Hope you enjoy South Band, Roxanna. basketball game! Call Bob 8538. at 1178 or Kevin at 1166 for mora Info. Big Dipper. "Thighs". Roddy, etc.: We're glad to have you. Wanted: Past sets of Micro Econ 224 
stop by 428 Walsh and give Jeanne 
exams. Call Mark 3805. Need Marquette tickets. Call Kathy Happy Lent Fr. Sarin (the lustful blonde) some birthday P.C. To all my friends I worked with and SMC 5135. Bob B. dealt to at the Lewis-Grace booth, Need ride to Pittsburgh weekend of Sheila-especially Bill and Suds who kept 2/28 Please call 8155. Help! Desperately need several GA Scully, Fisher, Harbert and Hart 20 socks have been sent between coming back for more-thanks! It was 
Marquette tickets. Joe 1644. Fri. and Sat. 9pm-2am at Louis' N.D. and Norwalk, to commemorate a blast. (or should I say bust?). Two FLOC farmworkers need ride to 
"lrlsh_Country" S. Notre Dame Ave. your birthday. Your Dealer Ft. Lauderdale for spring harvest. Need 2 G.A. Marquette tix. Nick Will share expenses and driving. Call 233-6249. Attention Long Islanders: Watch out Dean 'cause Jeanne's TRISH· 
Long Island Club meeting Feb. 27, nineteen. She's looking foxy and she's Ah heck, don't mention it!
Steve at 1062. 

Must have Dayton (5) tix!! Please Wednesday night at 6:30 In Little feeling mean· check her out at 8158! ·Your not-so-secret admirer from I need a ride from West Palm Beach help. 41-5710. theatre In LaFortune. Howard 
The Jane Byrne V.P. Committeearea after break. Call Bridget 8056. 
Will Pay mega$$$ for 2GA Marquette Dear Teddy welcomes all the Junior Parents. You Happy 20th Terri! Don't blow us off---------------I wish I noticed you in your bath are to stop by the now that you're not teenager
I need a ride to Atlanta at spring tickets. Karen 6798. cordially invited a 
robe. Have a wonderful 20th. Jane Byrne headquarters to discuss anymore!!
break. Call Bridget 8056. 

Need tickets to the Marquette game on Love, Sal the issues, especially campaign fund· Johnny Max ONE FEMALE WANTED IN CAM· the 24th of Feb. Mike 8501. lng. Checks made to "cash" only, P.S. Cell says Happy Birthday too! 
----------~----­

Have room for 3 or 4people to go down please. Call 8222 for further details.
PUS VIEW APARTMENTS. $100/ MONTH. CALL ANNE 7884. Need 3 Marquette GA tix. ANY price. to Florida In a van, Daytona or Beth and Lisa, 
Call Dave 1133. · Lauderdale. Call 234-4985. Rox, Your valentines were more enjoyable OVERSEAS JOBS • Summer/year -ferri=-------------HI roomie! Let's get some certainties than our usual reading material. round. Europe, S. America, Australia, Rich graduate '61 needs DePaul tlx [6] _!!_ood.J.uc!_Tml!i.:.Phoe~­Thanks for thinking of us Fisher 
_ 

Teri M. librarians.
Asia, Etc. All fields, $500·$1,200 Call 272·5744. 

Movlng Off-Campus? Live off-campus Happy Birthday, kiddo! Please do Tom, Tim, and Kurtmonthly. Expenses paid. Sightseeing. 
now? Vote Luhmuller, 0-C Commls· me a favor and try to restrain fromFree info. Write IJC Box 52·14 Corona Need 1 DePaul ticket, Ga or studei1t. 
Del Mar. Ca. 92625. Call Kerry 7873. sloner. Keep O·C part of ND. table-top dancing today! Get ready for Dear Ms. X, 
a massive celebration at Happy Hour Thank you for the pink carnation for Need ride to Buffalo or St. Bonaventure Desperately need DePaul student and Dear Mom, D.:d, Aran and Tante etc. Let the good times roll! V·day. Please Identify yourself so I anytime. Lisa 8144. GA's. Call Leo#1871. Ruth, Love, can confirm my suspicion and than\ 
Thank-you for being so understand· Susie (the California Kid) you In-person.lng and loving. I'm looking forward to Mark C.
Need ride to Detroit area Feb. 29. Will I need 2 GA's to Marquette game .. 
spending this weekend with you.

pay. Call41-4111. Will Pay your price. Anna SMC 5322. Terri Blazi, ------------­
Love, Your daughter From one townie to another, let's Happy Happy Birthday, Karen. Hope Ride needed to Chicago • afternoon of I need many Marquette B·ball tlx's. lndl tame the Southwest. the sun shines on you all year long. 
Love Brian

March 5. Mark 4609. Call Tim 8633. -------------·------~----·--------------­
Fur a Good Time 

Tomorrow Feb. 23 Is Mary Wilson's ------------·--------­
Furs Fur Sale Hey Callahan:
Desperately need ride to NYC for any Help! We are In dire straits. Need 19th birthday. Call her at 41-5435 and
One seal fur. size 12; One marmot fur, Have a fantastic bitthday!
of the Pink Floyd concerts next week. many GA or student tickets for wish her a HAPPY ONE.
full-length, size 8. Fur more Info.• call

Call the Wall 3588. · Marquette came. Call Dan 8998 or 
• 
.-. 
-"' 


Bz/1 Hanzlik zJpicturedhere in the game two years ago versus Marquette. Hts superior job against Butch Lee in that game earned his reputation as one ofthe best defensive guards 
in the country. 

============== =============·-­


by Bn'tm Beglane Sports Wn"ter 
The Notre Dame hockey team left for East Lansing this morn­in~ with two questionsi on its mmd. 
Question No. 1: What is its status with the University in 

l 
I I light of the recent moratorium on athletic scholarships and budget reworking? 
Answer: It does not know. No one is saying when it will come out. 

Question No. 2: Where will it be when the Western Collegiate Hockey Association playoffs be­gin in two weeks? 
Answer: It does not know, and the Irish probably will not find out until the final buzzer sounds at the ACC March 1 signaling the end of the regular season. 
Fourth place Notre Dame 
announcement has been released takes a 12-11-1 record (16-14-1
( 
by the administration and no overall) into this weekend's 
r 


,( Hockeyrem.ains in llinbo; scholarship crisis continues 
Associate Vice-President in charge of public relations and Development James E. Murphy reported yesterday that a statement regarding the status of scholarshtps for non-profit producing sports is still fohhcoming. 
"We reported from Key Biscayne (Fla., where the University's Executive Board of Trustees met last weekend to discuss that topic, among others) that a statement would not be released before Thursday (yesterday)," Murphy said. "At this point, all we can say is _that a statc::_ment will be forthcoming. (Notre Dame Prestdent) Father Hesburgh returned for a brief time and left for Baltimore for a Friday morning speech at John Hopkins Univers!ty.'~ . . . 
Murphy mdicated that Hesburgh was d~rectlr mvolv~d tn the preparation of the statement. Executtve Vtce-Prestdent Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., who is a c~ntral figure ~n the decision, will not return to campus unttl next week, 1t was learned. 
Studentsplanformal protest 
J11 a related story, a group calling itself ~he Concerne_d Students for Notre Dame Hockey and Mmor Sports IS attempting to organize a formal protest of what they call '·unfair treatment extended towards the hockey team and the minor sports" at Sunday's Ma~quette game. . 
··We are asking students t? ptck up a p_rotest p,ost~r whtch will be distributed to the vanous hall prestdents, satd gro_up spokesman Paul Riehle. "Off-campus students can ptck rhem up before the game, and we also suggest that students make their own banners." 
"lf we can get everyone to part~cipate in this prot~s~, we just might have some tmpact on thts unfortunat~ A_dmtntstra­tion policy,'' Riehle added. ''Though they don t hsten to us roo often, maybe if we s~o:w them we h_ave the guts to speak out on national televtston, we mtght e_mbarrass ~~e Administration into saving hockey and the mmor sports. 
:, 

-n;--J 

J < 

Friday, February 22, 1980 -page 16 


Bill Hanzlik in his game . • • 
Somewhere in the career of every noted athlete 
that plays for Notre Dame there is one game... 
A game where he scores more points, makes 
more tackles, sinks more free throws, etc., than 
any other fellow on the roster that day. And in 
the fat and time-worn log book of Irish 
remember whens, this game will belong to him 
alone. It always will. And usually, if he was that 
good, no one bothers to remember the score. 
They just remember that he played and that 
Notre Dame won because he played. 
For Bill Hanzlik, that game happened when he 
was a sophomore substitute who sometimes 
finished a game with more presonal fouls than 
playing minutes. Listed as a "swingman" in the 
annual Notre Dame dope book (Does that mean 
he was too short to, be a forward and too tall to be ·a· guard?-) ·Hanzlik took his time, bit his lip and worked harder than any other player on the team. 
And when his game finally came, on February 26, 1978, it all paid off. It was one of those picture perfect scenes, if you remember. .Marquette University was in town bringing with 
Irish return home to meet Warriors 
by Mark Perry Sports Editor 

After completing a three-game sweep of their recent r~ad trip with their win over Xavier, the Notre Dame basketball team comes hom~ for a crucial na-
With f/IU3Stions 

leers travel to Michigan State 
series at ninth place Michigan State. The Spartans are 10-14 in the WCHA (12-20 overall). Both games of the series will be broadcast locally by WNDU · AM radio, with Friday's faceoff set for 7:30 and Saturday's game beginning at 3:00 in the afternoon. . 
The Irish post a .521 winning percentage in the league and are followed by Colorado Col­lege at .519. That is not a lot of breathing room, especially when you c_onsider fourth pla~e is the last ttcket for home tee m the playoffs. 
''Once again we face a must­win situation in both games,'' said Notre Dame coach Lefty Smith. "We are just barely in fourth place and can't afford to drop m the standings this weekend. Otherwise we face a momentous task the last week­end of the regular season to get home ice." 
Michigan State split at home last week with last place Den­ver. The Spartans won the first night 4-2 while Denver took the second game 8-5. First-year coach Ror1 Mason has a youn~ club -only three seniors · and It is strug~ling ·to stay in the playoff ,Picture._ 'fhe P<?ttom two teams m the WCHA spectate come post-season/lay. 
Russ Welch an Leo Lynett leadlthe S,Partan attack with 41 and 38 pomts, respectively, in league play. Defense has been a problem, with Ted Heusing the only founh year blue liner. Mark Mazzoleru and Dous Bel­land have been splitting m the nets and both have been giving up over five goals a game. 
Notte Dame junior defense­man Don Lucia remains sidelin­ed with a thigh injury, but should be back m the lineup for next week'1 season enCling home mes against Minnesota. Parent's weeiend will be held for the Irish, players then. 
Frank LaGrotta-
Sports Writer 

them a number one ranking, a fis"tful of national championship rings (earned the year before) and a pretty impressive player by the name of Butch Lee. Lee didn't wear his tide ring; at least not that day. His fingers were occupied by two _All America trinkets that he'd picked up by bemg perhaps the best player in the nation for the past two seasons. He was, said AI McGuire (who had recruited Lee and coached him to that NCAA crown) ''the head of the Marquette team. Cut off the head and the body dies." 
If that was true, then they should have arrested Billy Hanzlik for murder. For on this day, duri~g this game, Hanzlik single-handedly made thts 
[continued on page 13] 
tionally-televised contest with play with anybody. Our players 
the Marquette Warriors at the have a great respect for Mar­
ACC on Sunday beginning at quette. It's a great series and 
2:.30 p.m. rivalry." . 
The Warriors, coached by Junior Oliver Lee has been the 
Hank Raymonds, fell prey to major scoring force for the 
rhe infamous "looking ahead to Warriors this season. The 6-7 
Nurre Dame'' syndrome Wed­forward has averaged 16.8 
nesday night, as they were pomts per game, and also has a 
upset by Stetson, 77 · 72. Mar­4.7 rebounding average. 
quette, with a 15-8 record, is Lee is joined on the fmntline 
sr ill hoping for a bid to the by 6-6 Robert Byrd (12.6 ppg) 
NCAA tournament, and is and 6-7 Terrell Schlundt (9.3). 
fa~:ing a must-win situation this Byrd leads the team in reboun­
weekend. d•ng with a 9. 5 average, and the 
.. Marquette may not be as .senior was ranked in the top ten 
good as they have been the last in field goal percentage in the 
few years,'' notes_ Irish coach latest NCAA statistics. 
Digger Phelps, "but they are Senior guard Sam Worthen is 
still a very talented ballclub. rhe guiding force for the Warri­
They've been in every game ors, the man who handles the 
they've lost, and two of those ball in pressure situations. 
defeats were by one point." Worthen, who was named to 
The Warriors upset Duke earli­st·veral pre-season All-Ameri­
er this season, 80-77, and gave Gill teams, is second on the 
top-ranked DePaul a fight be­Learn in scoring with a 16.1 
fore falling 92-85. mar~, and also leads Marquette ' 
·'They lack a good deep in assists. Worthen is joined by 
bench,'' Phelps adds,. "but 

[continued on page 10]
~.ei! startin_S._ five or stx can 

~Des conclude season. fall to Manchester,65-59 
by Beth Huffman Women's Sports J:.ditor 
Disappointing. That's the only word to describe last night's game, and for that matter t_he whole season for the Samt Mary's basketball team. The Belles, upset yesterday 65-59 by Manchester College i~ the district tournament, fimshed the season with a 11-12 mark. 
"Our record is definitely not indicative of our season,'' of­fered assistant coach Julian Lewiecki, "we lost four games by two or one. We definitely are a better club.'' 

Junior Maureen O'Brien ech­oed Lewiecki' s feelings on ~he silent and solemn bus nde home. •'With the amount of talent we have we should be a 20-4, 20-5 ball club," empha­sized the Indianapolis native. "Next season will be much different. We have seven freshmen who all gained much needed experience this year. The freshmen have worked in well and we play like a team. Next year we won't lose those close games.'' 
Coach ) erry Dallessio opted to go with five of those seven freshmen to start the game. Anne Armstrong, Tracee Har­greaves, Maureen King, Mary Bayless, and Mary Pat Siding­ton sparked the Belles as the young lineup faced-off for the tip. The five displayed why their theme chant is "1-2-3­teamwork!," when they came o~t fighting together for the · wtn. 

Manchester, seeking revenge after the Belle team had won convincingly twice during the regular season, matched Saint Mary's basket-for-basket early in the first half With barely a minute and a half remaining, the squad from North Man­chester had a 31-26 edge, but the Belles weren't beaten yet. 
Saint Mary's managed two quick buckets with a tight man-ro-man defense to close within one. It was down to the wire for the two teams until an Armstrong to Hargreaves score put the Belles on top, 32-31, at the. buzzer. 
Second half play saw Saint Mary's full ahead slowly to an eventua lead of 50-41 at the midway point. After the layup 
[continued on page 14] 

. 
fi\o_ 2 2, /7[() 


I~S~ 


'f(>• 7-9 
~ ~ 
u 
I I 







