~Empty Keg, -page3 

VOL. XV, NO. 14 an independent student newspa~r serving notre dame and saim mary's WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER, 10, 1980 

Grace keg party 
Students receive probation, fine 

by PatJ McGinn the keg. We didn't deny that. The other ch:trges we were kind Whena keg was discovered in a of explaining-that we were suite ofsection4-C ofGrace Hall slow in getting the keg down (and on the night of August 30, the giving it to security), we had entire controversy surrounding problems getting it out of the kegs on campus was rekindled. garbage can because the garbage MondayatlOp.m., thejudicial can was dented and we just 
Board of Grace Hall met to couldn't yank it out with all the decide the proper course of ice and everything in it." action against the three men "After the rector (Brother involved. About twenty specta­Charles Burke) came up and said, 
tors, most ofwhom were from 4-'Bring it down now,' we just C, showed up. The following pulled the garbage can out. charges were levelled against That's why it took so long." three Grace sophomores: "The fourth {charge) we said 
1) Possession of a keg on we weren't guilty of because we
This is an architectural model ofthe proposed St. Mary's library which wtll cost an estimated $7,000,000. 

campus. had made efforts (to control the
Groundhreaking wtll take place early next month. 

2) Slow reaction to rector's guests), and one of the RAs on request to bring the keg to his duty testified and said we had office. made attempts but that there
College invests in education 3) The holding of a party that were so many people. It was could not be contained in a really beyond our control. So we private room or rooms. Inviting were dismissed on that (charge)." large numbers of people without
SMC builds new library 
having space for them. Although the issue concerning 
4) Failure to respond to Head the random invitations ofFlorida Staff requests to control the women to the party helped leadIndianapolis.
By Margie BrasStl 

guests or close the party down. to the students' convictions,The new library will be situated next to the
Saint Mary's Executive Editor John Goebelbecker, speaking Goebelbecker maintained that
Science Building and across from the Dining Hall. 
on behalf of the three students, other persons in the section had It will be constructed of yellow brick with a slateSaint Mary's College will begin construction on 
said, "It was obvious that we had (continued on p.2)
roof. The architectural plans attempt to preserveits new $7,000,000 library with the groundbreak­the traditional Gothic architecture of the oldering ceremony to be held on Oct. 17, according to campus buildings with such characteristics asan announcement made this week by President 
John M. Duggan. gables and dormer windows sloping up to a flat Wednesday fasts roof.
"We are eager to begin construction and we The inside mezzanines will overlook each floor. 

expect that the library will be completed by the The interior design includes plans for an elevator,Spring of 1982," Duggan said. "The new library is 


WHC sponsors
smoking room, lounge area with vending ma­an essential resource which cannot bedelayed ifwe chines and group study rooms. The audio-visualare to continue to provide ourstudents and faculty department will be expanded and the archives will with the strong academic environment that is part 

fasting program
be moved from Regina Hall to the new building.
of the Saint Mary's traditition." 
The library will also be connected toLe Mans by an
Duggan's announcement follows five years of research and planning for the new building to underground walk-through tunnel system. by Mike O'Brien fall semester's program begins 
The building plans have been moving quickly on September 24.
replace the one built in 1942. The old library, built since last May. "Over the summer the board of World Hunger Coalition Last year, according to theto hold only 80,000 volumes now overflows with Regents made the decision to work with John members will conduct signups group's new bi-monthly report,150,000 books, many of which have to.be kept in Nevin & co., investment bankers from Chicago for tomorrow in all of the residence $26,000 was dispersed, $21,000storage on other parts of the campus. 
the purpose ofselling tax exempt bonds to finance halls for the annual student of which was brought in by
The library staff began working in 1975 with Dr. 
David Kaser, a library consultant, to devise a the building," stated ComptrollerJason Lindower. lunch-time fast, which is an effort student fasting. to help relieve the fundamental
program which would fit their needs and the needs This past week the Indiana Educational Reifschneider, seeking to pro­
injustice of global hunger, as
of the campus. Last year the architectural firm of Facilities Authority granted approval of the vide potential coalition members 
coalition coordinator Lou with motivation for joining the
Evans Woolen Associates of Indianapolis were College's plans to finance part of the library Reifschneider describes the pro­fast, characterized the coalition's
chosen to draw up the plans for the new facility. through the sale of these bonds. 
gram.
Besides the Saint Mary's Library, Woolen The bonds were given AA rating by Moody's primary committments as long­
The coalition annually con­
Associates has received awards for Clowes Investors Service. Although Moody's rating does term projects, adding that such ducts Wednesday fasts in co­endeavors can be the results of
Memorial Hall, Butler University, Indianapolis; not mean that Saint Mary's is affluent, Duggan said operation with the dining halls; serious efforts on behalf of theFesler Hall, Herron School of Art, Indianapolis; that he was pleased because it is a clear indication which in turn donate the dollar poor.
Indiana University Musical Arts Center, value ofthe meal to the coalition He further stated that few stu­
Bloomington; and the Indiana Repertory Theater, (continued on p. 3) 
for charitable distribution. The dents are aware of the physical results of the sacrifice of food, Natural family planning which last year were contribu­tions to organized aid projects like Caritas Banglade.sh, and th.e South. African Natal Province
Lectures to enlighten student's awareness 
Land School. 

by Mary Fran Callahan Senior Staff Reporter 

Experts in the field of natural family planning will host talks and teach classes on the SMC and NO campuses in an effort to increase awareness of and simul­taneously clear up misconcep­tions about this sexual philos­ophy. 
Sponsored by SMC Student Life, the speakers will host an event entitled "Natural Sex: An 
Introduction to Family 
Planning." Open to both stu­
dents and the general public, the 
symposium will uke place Sep. 
15 at 7 p.m. in <;:arroll Hall. . E. Micl}ael ]one, Ph.D., English, (S~C) will speak first on the topic of "Feminisim and Technology." ]one's talk will provide some background on contemporary women and their needs. Accor<lipg to NFP expert, Janet Bettchner,Jone will draw a distinction betWeen "feminism 
and psuedo-teminism" by read­ing excerpts from English liter­ature. 
Bettchner, a married regis­tered nurse with children, has been affiliated with Natural Family Planning in St. Joseph County. Last June, sheattendeda Philadelphia-based conference on this program. She will step to the podium after Jane and pro­vide the audience with concrete information on family planning. 
"Many people associate nat­ural family planning with the calendar rhythm method. It actually has nothing to do with that," Bettchner explained. She added, however, that artificial means of birth control are not utilized when planning a family using the natural method. 
She explained that the "only natural means" philosophy can increase couples' understanding of their own bodies. 
(continued on p.2) 

The WHC Report describes the Caritas effort as working with marginal and landless farmers seeking an emphasis on "edu­cation which leads to reflection and action." The ND-SMC group made a significant donation to Caritas, totalling .5 percent of the charity's total budget. 
The Natal Land School is also an educational project designed to improve the difficult teaching and learning processes ofa rural, third world community. 
~­

News Briefj 
Wednesday, September 10, 1980-page 2 
c===~========~================================== 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Saying John B. Anderson's 
presidential campaign has "clearly demonstrated significant voter interest and support," the League of Women Voters ·yesterday invited the independent to take part in the first ofits series of nationally televised debates. An ebullient Anderson, campaigning in New York State, immediately accepted. But it remained unclear who would share the stage with him for the faceoff tentatively scheduled for September 21 in Baltimore. President Carter has steadfastly refused to participate in any initial debate that would include the Illinois congressman. Carter has sought an opening one-on-one debate with Republican rival Ronald Reagan. The former California governor has said he would take part in a threeway debate with Anderson and Carter. Carter campaign sources said they were 
• assessing the League's invitation to Anderson, but that no decision had been made on whether the president would share the spotlight with both Anderson and Reagan. -AP 
Off-campus crimes in recent weeks have forced an afternoon meeting today between South Bend city officials, Notre Dame student leaders, and University ad­ministrators. The meeting, slated for 3p.m., will be held at the offic~~ ofSouth Bend Police ChiefMichael Borokowski. Among those expected to attend the meeting are Borokow.ski, South Bend mayor Roger Parent, Dean of Students James Roemer, Director ofND Security Glenn Terry, Student Body President Paul Riehle and Off-Campus Commissioner Mark Kelley. ­
The Observer 

Partlv sunnv and seasonably cool today with highs around 70. Clear andcold tonight with lows in the mid to upper 40s. Sunny and pleasant tomorrow with highs near 70. 
• • • Lectures 
(continued from p. 1) 
We teach fertility knowledg~," she said, "People can plan their families naturally and avoid conception if they like by using this method." 
Citing a 99.8 percent effect­iveness rate (for either avoiding pregnancy or conceiving), Bettchner said the key to the success rate lies in correctly understanding and practicing the concept of natural planning. 
Following Bettchner, two married couples will speak, one of whom had not been able to conceive and wished to (the wife is now pregnant), and the sec­ond, a strong supporter of this pr.ogram. The touples will also discuss breast feeding. 
September 16 at 7 p.m. in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium, Bettchner and her husband, William, will teach the first of a four-part class on natural family planning. 
Mrs. Bettchner said her inter­est in teaching this subject stemmed from a talk she pre­sented to a Notre Dame sociol­ogy class. According to Bettchner, students were "inter­ested in the subject but lacked knowledge." She chose Notre Dame as the site for her class, which is co-sponsored by Camp...!. Ministry, because she believes the campus has "quite a few young, engaged and married couples." 

The class, however, is restric­ted to engaged and married couples. Since Bettchner had said her objective was to provide people with applicable know­ledge, she defended the enrol­lment stipulation. 
"At the first talk on the 7th, all the general information will be discussed. It will be an introd­uction to the concept," she stated, adding that the initial speech is open to the public. 
The actual class will deal with specific methods, according to Bettchner, because "we want them to start using the method immediately." 
She believes her learn-by­doing approach can only be practically applied to married or engaged couples since her ob­jective is to teach family planning on a "healthy and morally ac­ceptable" level. 
Class tuition is $25 per couple, and the revenue provides for books and equipment. Scholar­ships are available for couples who cannot afford the tuition fee. 


Prohatton 
(continued from p. 1) 
invited them: "We didn't do that 
at all." 
Goebelbecker continued: ''The j-board adjourned for fif­teen-twenty minutes (after hear­ing both sides ofthe arguments) .md their decision was that 'you're guilty on the first three charges, but not the fourth,' and that we would be fined seventy­five dollars." 

"We are on 'restricted pro­bation,"' he added, "which means that ifwegetcaughtwith a keg again that it will be recom­mended that we get put off _campus." 
"They (the judicial board) were reasonable. They listened and asked questions. It wasn't like a jury; just an informal thing. They just tried to get at what happened and they were really pretty good about it." 
"The reason we had a keg was because it was so economical. We weren't expecting that many people in the room. We thought we'd need enoughbeerfor two to three hours, for just social drinking, hanging around, with­out the mess ofcans and bottles. It just got out of hand, and people started going in the halls... It wasn't a deliberate attack on du Lac." 
Inside Wednesday 


'Don't believe it' 
On December 12, 1978, joseph Camarda, a Notre Dame senior, was shot in the neck in his house on Corby Street. 
On Aprrl16, 1980, a South Bend woman was shot and killed in her apartment on Notre Dame Ave. 
On April18, 1980, a 54-year old housewife was brutally beaten and murdered in her Castlewood apart­ment on Ironwood Road while her husband lay boundand gagged in the basement. 
On September4,1980, two Notre Dame students, sharing a house on Corby Street, had their heads bashed in with the butt end ofa shotgun. 
No, these aren't reruns from Dragnet. Unfortunately you and I can not just flick the TV dial in search of a better show. The cold sobering fact is that each of the above tragedies did happen and they happened with­in the shadow of the Golden Dome. 
Off-campus crime is ram­pant. Probably more so within the past two years. The North­east neighborhood, the three mile radius running from Notre Dame Ave. to St. Louis St., houses the bulk ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's students who· live off-campus. This triangle has been delicately coined by first-term Mayor Roger Parent as a "fragile neighborhood." And no wonder considering all the muggings, robberies, and attempted· assaults that have occurred there -whether re­ported or unreported. 
The1lbsenrer Dest"gfl Editor ............. Scoop Asst. Design Ed. ...Joe O'Donnell Patty Fox Kevin Korowicki Copy Editor .....•. Erin Courtney News Editor ....... Tom Jackman Editorial Layout•.•.......... Frak A lovely lady Night Technician ..•.... Mike Jans Sports Layout....... Gary Grassey Typists . ......•.... Katie Begane Bobbi Young Kathy Murray Marilyn Broderick Scoop Day Editor ....•... Molly Noland Ad Design ..........• They didn't tell us Photographer ....••.. .John Macor GuestAppearances. ..John MeG rath Ort the Slanderer Many do nothings  
The Oburver (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam ancf vacation periods. Tile Observer Is publishedby the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year($10 per semester) by writing The Obaerver, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Obaerver Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved.  


Mayor Parent, however, stu­bbornly insists that the danger of this area lies within the "chaos" created by the neigh­borhood bars-Goose's; which is now extinct,' Corby's, which is on the borderline of extinction, and Nickie's, which is desperately trying to hang on to its liquor business. This is nothing but a deliberate screen created by Mayor Parent to avoid the "real" issue, which is that students and South Bend residents alike are being beat­en, robbed and seriously in­jured by gangs of young teen­agers who either live in the area or who are very familiar with the layout of the Northeast Neighborhood. 
Students imbibing in a few rounds of draft beers at "the bars" are not responsible. The South Bend Police Dept. is responsible. The Parent Ad­ministration is responsible. And Notre Dame Administra­tion and Security is responsible. 

What are they doing to com­bat these life-threatening situ­ations, you ask. Well, I'll tell you. If you talk to someome at the South Bend Police Dept., vou'll get a yawn or two and a 
Pam Degnan 
"don't worry, we'll catch those guys." Meanwhile if you ever take a stroll dQwn to Corby Street one night, take a look at the five or six police cars parked in front of Bridget's and Corby's. Ridiculous, huh? 
If you try to talk to Mayor Parent, be prepared for a bout with frustration. Inevitably, you won't even get past his secretary and your call is dis­missed with an extremely curt "he's very busy right now." 
If you talk to Notre Dame Administration and Security, who aren't on the same wave­length anyway, you'll be given a fatherly pat on the back and "everything will be fine, my son." 
Don't believe it. It's not going to get better. In fact itwill probably get much worse if the Notre Dame Administration continues to ignore the fact that off-campus crime does exist. This evening, Mayor Parent, Dean Roemer, Captain Beninghoffof the South Bend Police Dept, SBP Paul Riehle and Paul Mullaney of the Observer, are supposed to meet and discuss what kinds of actions must be taken in order to secure the safety ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's students living in the Northeast Neighborhood and surrounding areas. These meet­ings have been held in the past (sans Parent) and have proved to be ineffective and useless. But perhaps, if the mayor decides that the lives of not only the students but other residents as well are worth his time and effort, then, and only then, will innocent people be able to feel safe and secure in their homes. 
Ask Joe Camarda, vy-ho spent numerous weeks in a hospital bed suffering from a serious neck wound, what he thinks about off-campus crime. Ask Rick Valencia and Steve Hoey, who got their heads bashed in and their $900 stereo system stolen from their house, what they think about off-campus crime. 

And then ask Mayor Parent what he thinks about off­campus crime. 
Attention Freshmen= your Freshman Register has arrived 
Pick up your Register 



Thursday-
from 2:00 to 5:00 
LaFortune Ballroom {2nd floor, LaFortune) SUservices Commission 
.. 

The Observer Wednesday, September 10, 1980-page. 3 
Hard to find a job 


Chinese population soars 

Beautiful sunshine enhances an afternooTI workout, but yesterday's scattered thundershowers threatened the current warm treml. Today's temperatures are expected to be much cooler. (photo ly john Macor.) 
By]ohn Roderick AP Special Correspondent 
PEKING--Communist Party chief Hua Gofeng revealed in a speech to the National People's Congress this week that 65 percent of China's population -630 million people-ts under 30 years old. 
It is as if the entire population of the United States, the Soviet Union and much of Western Europe had not reached its 31st birthday. 
Hua failed to add that a majority of the population, or about 500 million, is around the 18-20 age grout?· . 
What to do wtth these young men and women is an appalling problem made worse by a rigid unbending bureaucracy, a party cadre system with life-time tenure and unemeloyment which reached 20 mdlion last year. 
Several million are members of a "lost generation" thrown up by the excesses of the 1966-76 period of turmoil which began wtth the CuJ, ural Revolu­tion. They were the wild-eyed teen-agers of the Red Guards given a free hand by Mao Tse Tun~ and his wife, Jiang Jing, to cmicize, pillage and destroy on a nationwide scale. 



German Cinema... 
ASERIES OF REPRESENTAT1VE 'FILMS 1HURSDAYS AT 7:30PM 13 FILMS FOR $10.000R $l.OOGENERAL NOSFERATU.ASYMPHONYOFHORROR September 11 Library Auditorium MEfROPOUS September 18 Engineering Auditorium M September 25 Washington Hall 
THE BLUE ANGEL October 2Washington Hall TRIUMPH OF THE WILL October 9 Washington Hall OLYMPIA October 16 Washington Hall 
HITIERJUNGE QUEX October 30 Washington Hall NOT RECONCILED November 6 Library Auditorium YOUNGTORLESS November 13 Library Auditorium 
MARRIAGE OF MARIA BRAUN November 20 Library Auditorium AGUIRRE, WRATH OF GOD December 4 Library Auditorium THELEFf-HANDEDWOMAN December 11 Washington Hall 
By 1969 their excesses had become so great that even the radical leaders of the Cultural Revolution were appalled. Mao's solution was to pack off 10 million of them to the countryside to learn from the peasants. The more moderate regime that came to power after Mao's death brought many of them back last year to the ctties from which they came, and these form the hard core of the unemployment problem. 
They have returned to a society which has begun to 

emphasize commodity produc­tion. Items unheard of before ­television sets, tape recorders, sun glasses and better clothing­have appeared on the market. But few of the unemployed or under-employed young have the money to acquire them. 
Many have turned to petty crime and worse. The Commu­nist Party's solution is to round up troublemakers and without the formality of a trial bundle them off to labor camps to be reformed. 

Two other sizable segments of the population under 30 are waiting to see what the future holds. Millions of these are the 
. young members of the Commu­nist Party, many of athem enlisted by the radicals during the Cultural Revolution, when membership ballooned from 18 million to 38 million. 
Many of them have been ' stalled in mid-career because of their association with the radi­cal Maoists. The new regime dominated by two-time Maoist victim Deng Xiaoping decided to re-educate them instead of rooting them out. Meanwhile, they mark time until they are accepted by the new crowd. 

SM C opens 'Empty Keg' 
By Mary Agnes Carey 
"The Empty Keg," featuring vocalists, instrumentalists, and other local talent, begins Friday at the Saint Mary's clubhouse from 8 p.m. until2 a.m., and will continue bi-monthly through­out the semester. Admisssion is free and refreshments may be purchased,. according to Anita Ramker, director of the pro­gram. 
"We wanted a nonalcoholic 'bar' on this campus so people would have something to do. After all, there is life after Goose's," Ramker said. 
"The Empty Keg" is co-spon­sored by the SMC Student Activities Programming Board and the Alcohol Education Council. 
"Once we get going, we want to make this a permanent activity at SMC. We're not trying to take 

. . . Library 
(continued from p. 1) 
that the financial community regards Saint Mary's as a sound investment. Fundraising for the library is well underway, and the monies generated will retire the bonds. 
Sollitt Construction Company of South Bend has been chosen as construction manager for the 
.The Observer~ 


54533 T rrrace l.anr Soulh Bend lAcross rrom Martin's on Sl. Rd. 231 
272-0312 
272-8471 
277-1691 
CLOSED MONDAY run., wtD. 8:30-5:30 THURS., FRI. 8:30-8:30 SAT. 8:30-5:30 
LET THE STAFF AT QUEEN'S CASTLE GET YOU READY FOR SCHOOL WITH OUR 
"BACK-TO· SCHOOL SPECIAL" 
Haircuts............... '500 Haircut& Blow Style ........... '1 000 

Queen·s CagtQe 
anb mbr ~Wtg~yts
;ust 5 minutes from cam 
IF YOU ARE IN NEED OF A PERM WE OFFER 
'5°0 OFF 
WITH THIS COUPON 

REG. PRICE WITH COUPON 
25.00 20.00 30.00 25.00 35.00 30.00 40.00 35.00 

business away from the 'Nazz,' but rather we're trying to en­hance it," Ramker said. , 
Any students interested in performing or assisting with concessions, publicity, or main­tenance of "The Empty Keg" should contact Ramker at 4380, or call the SMC Student Act­ivities Office. 
Upcoming events include an all faculty and staff performers' night Nov. 12, a 'gong show' Dec. 5, and an audience caroling night Dec. 12. 
project. They will oversee the building of the library, while the college will be directly nego­tiating and awarding contracts to various subcontractors. There will be approximately 38 differ­ent contracts involved in the construction project according to Lindower. 
The groundbreaking cere­monies will r.:oincide with the College's fall meeting of the Board of Regents. The Senior Officers of the College are now making plans for the ceremony, but nothing is yet definite. 


------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
..----------~---­




Editorials 

Wednesday, September 10, 1980-page 4 
P. 0. BoxQ 
Taste ofND 
rudeness 
Dear Editor: 
The pages of The Observer are steadily filled with editorials and letters presenting the case in favor of kegs, coed dorms and the end of parietals. Almost 
every writer has cited as his screaming obscenities. Security strongest argument the mature informed me that I was not the adult status of the students of only person to call in a com­Notre Dame. plaint. After these mature, re­Last night, or rather this sponsible adults were quieted, I morning, at4: 30, I was awakened was treated to a new experi­by some of these mature, re­ence-a stereo at Morrissey sponsible adults who were glee­commenced to blast into the fully bouncing a hubcap on the night. I will admit that stereos at concrete outside ofLyonsHall. I ungodly hours are a common might add that they were drunk, sleep inhibitor for the women in and in addition to the noise made my section. It seems that some by the hubcap, they were mature, responsible adults in 

'Nudes for Reagan' 
FIRE ISLAND,N.Y.-First the good nudes. They gather on a secluded beach where only random terns and sandcrabs share the sun's blaze in what Robert Pen Warren calls "the afternoon's hypnosis of summer." With 32 miles of Atlanttc shoreline to choose from, the bare and the bronzed decently distance them­selves from the clothed and whatever appall­ment they might harbor about the stripped. 
Then we have the bad nudes. A billage judge in Ocean Beach fined a woman $150 for defying a township ordinance against public disrobing. She was only topless, but on a beach packed wtth families-who had come to enjoy the natural beauty of the seaside and not that of someone suddenly bored with her string bikini-it was crime enought. 
Reports from around the country, from the coves of the California coastline to Martha's Vineyard in Massachusetts, suggest that we have just passed through the Great Undraped, Summer. Only the other day, the police busted 20 nudes aJones Beach, a few miles east of her. 

Colman McCarthy 
SCJ.uare inch-were gathered in a colony a few miles up the island from the cookie and nude haters of Ocean Beach. 
The group welcomed the clothed. I took a seat next to a bare gentleman in his mid-50s who looked as if he were one of Rubens' ''fat graces, and other plump nudities .. '' 
Any trouble from the police? I asked. 
None, he said: "We're not troublemakers. We're just folks who like the sun-all over." He explained that they were mostly business people and professionals who wanted a spell at getung away from it all, clothing included. After saying that nudism has mistakenly come to be equated with any number of taboos-rollicking lust, orgiastic, mayhem-he volunteered that he himself was a tame fellow. In fact, he voted for Nixon and was now a Reagan supporter. 
"For real?" I asked. "Would I hide ~nyth~g?" he said. 
I c~nceded the pomt and suggested t~at h~ organtze Nudes For Reagan, an effort whtch, if success.ful, would surely give Fire Island to the 
That was a large meting of justice, but like tuna. Republtcans. . . nets easily expanded if a btg school is running, A nude couple came over. The man hadJust the cops could have doubled or tripled their haul chased away two gawkers who had. plol?pe o_n if they wished. the dunes 30 feet away. Voyeunsm ts therr 
The judge in Ocean Beach is a celebrated right, said the man, but how "can these teople thrower of the book. His community won world walk up the dunes when a sign in front o them notoriety two summers ago when ~ citizen was says. 'Stay Off. the Dunes.."' . issued a summons for eatmg a cookie on a town Hts companton, wh?se dark harr, ambe.r eyes, side walk. An elderly man, the judge is a and mustard-hued sktn were color-coordmated, relaxed warmherated fellow once off his , pointed to a pile of double-duty Hefty Bags. hard-line bench. In a conversation about his' "We aren't litterers," she said. "We clean up judicial philosophy, he told me that guardians of' our refuse, bag it and leave it neatly to be picked 
virtue like himself had no choice but to clobber the nudes. Permissiveness spreads, he said. It was as though he feared that that origins of the decline of the West would one day be traced right here to sleepy Fire Island. 
That would be terrible, and I congr~tulated

• 
the judge for his determined stand agatnst the wicked forces of immodesty. That would have been the end of it, except later that dya, while out for a walk along the beach, I discovered that the judge's perceptions about the nudes were out of focus. 
About 50 of the ungarbed-rapt in the purposeful tanning of their hides' every last 
up."
S~e spoke als<? ab?uAhe group's .stri~tur<;s agamst moral h~tenng.. No ~_romtscutty ts allowed. Here fnend satd that unfo~nat~ly , most people e9.uate the removal of clothtn~ wtth ~ex. ~ut not~un~ goes on here you wouldn t see 
tn Vattcan Ctty.  .  . .  
Thts  was  getttng  to  be  too  much.  Sttttng  
among  the  ~udes. and hearing  them  talk  of  

Reagan, theu .er;tvtron men~al concern for. the dunes, the anu-lttter campatgn and the Vattcan -I wished that the judged from Ocean Beach were there. Overlook the bare flesh, Your Honor. The West is not doomed after all. 
Lyons  do  like  to  sleep,  occa­ 
sionally.  
With  this  type  of behavior  

becoming the norm rather than the exception, itis no wonder the University powers-that-be feel obliged to act in loco parentis. We apparently cannot take care of ourselves or each other, or they would not have to. 
The first step in becoming mature, responsible adults is being considerate to others. The last few nights I have seen dissappointingly little evidence that some of the students of Notre Dame know or care about this fact. 
It is unfortunate that this childish behavior mars our rep­utation as a student body. 
Angela Allyn Adamson 
Chval shows 
ineptitude on 
Moeller 
Dear Edttor: 
Previously I believed that the only plague which we students regularly had to endure was the writing of Frank LaGrotta. However, I was wrong. Craig Chval has shown that he is capable of maintaining a similar level of ineptitude. 
Chval's article entitled "Moeller got the shaft" is a portrait ofmediocrity. No doubt Gary Moeller is a fine man, but even a fine man mav not be the right man for a cer~in job. The University oflllinoisshou/dwant a winner. Father Hesburgh him­self stated upon the firing of Terry Brennan (a fine man) that it would be a sad day indeed when we ceased striving to be the best we could possibly be at all we do. 

Unless I am mistaken, Craig Chval does not know Mike White personally, and yet he proceeds to roundly attack his integrity before he has even coached one game at Illinois! And the misleading linking ofthe University of California at 

DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
I JUST CAN'T 8&-UH.. P./t/J.., 70 lJI/lN'T YOfJTa/.. IOtA YOU 
I.ACEY, a!HY · I HAO NO 
UBVt IT. ARE YOIJ FJt llJNE£iT,I MB 7HifT Mil<& KNW 5ACH 
PLANNING ON MOVIM7 HAON'TREAJ..­alA~ GOING 70 OTHEr< 70 a/A5HINGTON IF · L.Y 7HrxJ6HT
813 
I
/JEAR. ANOfRSON WINS, MIKU A80UT IT.. 

/ 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of rr1e University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessar·'·: reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news 1s reponed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opimoo of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the v1ew<= of their authors. Column s~;>ace is available to all members of the commumty. an.... the free expression of varymg opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged 


Edllor·m-Chte/. . .. ... Paul Mullaney Managmg Eaitor .............. Mark Rusr Editona/s Erirt;;r .. Mike Onufrak jemor Copl Eduor . . ... Lynne Daley New'i Edrtor . Pam Degnan Neu·s t:..d/1":1' . Tom Jackman !'veu·.,· !.:~ttor .... John McGrath SMC i::.xecuttve Editor. Margie Brassi! 
Berkeley with the five suspended schools of the Pacific-10 Con­ference is a very simplistic maneuver indicative of a very simplistic and childish attitude. 
Oh, and by the way Craig, Mike White was not an assistant coach at Cal, butanassistantfortheSan Francisco 49ers, and the head coach at Cal. From now on, Craig, it would be a good idea to write about relevant topics upon 
which you  are  at least slightly  
informed.  
Mike Schafer  

Sprinklers 
dan1pen 
spirit 
Dear Edttor: 

Last Friday night we were invited to a party at Campus View. Leaving Breen-Phillips at midnight, we -were accosted by innumerable sprinklers posi­tioned in such a way tnat dry passage between BP .and the ACC, journeying by foot, be­came impossible. We arrived at the party considerably damp, but the incident was soon forgotten. 
However, upon our return to campus three hours later, we were reminded of our earlier misfortunes as we waded through two feet deep puddles between the library and BP. The sprinklers were still on, doing nothing mort than turning the library lawn into-a veritable quagmire. If this keeps up, soon the library lawn will only be fit for use as a rice paddy. 
Our minor concern is the inconvenience these sprinklers cause us as pedestrians. Our major concern is the gross waste ofwater that goes on daily on this campus. Green grass is nice, but after all, this ir South Bend and we're definitely not lacking in precipitaton. 
]aneNani 435 Lewis 
Pat McCaffrey 
SMC News Editor ........... Mary Leavitt Sports Editor . . . . .......... Beth Huffman Features Editor .............. Kate Farrell Features Editor .......... . Molly Woulfe Photo Editor .................. John Macor 
Busznen Manager. Grt·~; Ht-dg~­A,ivertzsrng .Manager .. Mikt Hofs111gn. ProductiOn Manager .... Ann Monaghan 

The Observer Wednesday, September 10, 1980-page 5 
-
, 



The Observer 

,
T0 da~======W=e=dn=e=sd=a=y=,=Se=p=te=m=b=e=r=l::;:O:::,=19=8=0=-p=a=ge=6 
.-------------. f'lO.L~~)fT 


Campus 
12:15-1 p.m. -social concerns film-"controlling interest," Iafortune ctr. aud. 
3:30p.m.-seminar-"com­puter aided techology-'state of the art,"' arvin e. doelling, mcdonald aircraft co. 303 
ushing hall. spons: aero & mech ngr. 
.~:30p.m. --tPnni~-nd women vs. goshen college. home. 



4:.~op.m.-reilly lecture in chemistry -recent contribu­tions to the "mechanism of concl·rtec:l & nonconcerted 
cyclo:tdditions,"  prof.  rolf  
huisgcn. 123 nieuwland.  
(>,8:W,llp.m.-social  con­ 

rerns film -"black & white in color," washington hall. free of charge. 
(>: .~Op.m. -sailing club meet­ing, sailing dub boathouse, st. jol''s lake. new members wei­
corne. 

I'­
The One and Only 

Tony's Shoe ~~~~wntown 
Easy to find Ill West Jefferson

-
Open 6 days a week 8-5 We sell boots and moeassins 

MARIO'S 1 mile ..over the border" on 31 North. Every night is PITCHER NIGHT at Marlo'sll 
JFll1f~l]]J];ffig) ~~o®® 
Strohs, Hamms, Olympia, Light NO COVER 18 to enter, 21 to drink 


Peanuts 
...........,...-------.~---, 

Michael Molinelli 



Charles Schultz 
IF Tj..jELf CAN'T PUT T~E 
WORDS WI-{ERE I'M LOOKING, I WON'T READ 'EM 

W~l( S~OULD I KEEP
NO, MARCIE, IT !-tAD 
LOOKING AT THE

TOO MANV FOOTNOTES... 
BOTTOM OF THE PAGE?
I !-(ATE FOOTNOTES! 



lemons m&t6-8 w7-9 Iafortune mtw 11-2 


Organizational Meeting For Anyone Interested In Working At The Nazz 
When: Wednesday Night Sept. 10 th 7:30pm 
Where: The Nazz (located in the basement of Lafortune) 
Needed : Stagehands, Soundmixers, Hosts and----1 1-----Hostesses (no experience necessary}1-----1 

r--------­
The Observer -Sports Wednesday, September 10, 1980-page 7 
-~ ----------------~--------­

~ 
I 
I 
• • • SMC 

(continued from page 8) 
championships last year. 
Bracken did not return to the 
squad this year, leaving Brown 
Mo in search of a new partner. 
Blonde Mo, an Indianapolis 
native and graduate of Chatard 
High School, is faced with a 
playing situation similar to her 
counterpart. O'Brien participa­
ted at the number-five singles 
level last year and joined with 
Karen Smith at the number-two 
doubles spot. Smith also did not 
return to the squad, leaving 
Blonde Mo all alone. 
"We're a pretty young team," 
says Brown Mo. "We still have to 
work on who's going to play with 
who." 
In addition to the loss of 

Bracken and Smith, Saint Mary's 
will also miss the services of last 
year's number-two singles play­
er, Maureen Fitzgerald, who is 
spending the year abroad. The 
bright point for the Belles is the 
return of Patsy Coash, who last 

year finished third in the nation 
in the small college division at 
first singles. 
Coash, named to the all­America squad, paired with Fitzgerald to finish fifth in the nation at number-one doubles. Coash will be absent from today's match with Valparaiso due the conflicting Lipton Tea Tourna­ment in which she competes at mixed doubles with Dave Brogger_. 
"Of course," states Blonde Mo, the sixth of fourteen chil­dren, "the loss of Patsy hurts. She'll also miss the Irish tourney on Saturday and her presence could make a big difference in the line up. We almost always count on her for a win every time she plays." 
With the lineup still to be set, and the permanent loss of three players and another temporarily, things could look a little grim for 



ports Briefs'----~ 
Spring-Winter track meets today 
There will be a meeting today at 4 p.m. in the ACC auditorium for anyone interested in joining the track team. 

Wrestling prospects gather 
The Notre Dame wrestling team will hold an organizational meeting tomorrow at .5:15p.m. in the ACC auditorium. This is an important meeting to discuss physical exams, schedule, conditioning and start ofpractice sessions. It is imperative that all wrestlers be in attendance, and freshmen are especially encouraged to attend. 

Kickers host Grace tonight 
Tonight at 7:30 on the astroturf at Cartier Field, the Notre Dame soccer team begins their home schedule with a match against Grace College. The Irish are 1-0 after their come-from­behind 2-1 victory over Cincinnati on Sunday. Admission is $1.00 and season tickets for all eight matches on Cartier this fall the Belles. 
"We're deep," claims Blonde Mo, who will also captain the Saint Mary's basketball team this year. "We might start out a little slow, but by the endofthe season we'll be strong. We have lots of experience, we just need to get back in to the routine." 
Part of getting back into the rhythm of things includes a healthy outlook, and with the two "cards" of the team at the helm, the Saint Mary's squad will have anything but a dull time. "The attitude of our . team is close, we have eight returnees from last year and the two freshmen have adapted to the team," . says Brown Mo, the oldest of eight and a graduate of Trinity High School. "We've taken them outa couple oftimes and tried to unify the team, I'm sure no one feels left out." 
Though the two Mo's have similar lives at the moment, spring and graduation will have them sadly curving their paths apart. 
Brown Mo, an English writing and speech communications major, will take the LSAT tests soon and hopes to enter law school next fall. 
Blonde Mo, a go~rnment ma­jor, will be marriedJune 20 to a 1980 graduate of the Notre Dame Law School,} effKohler of Chicago. 
"I'll miss you," says Brown Mo sadly considering the separation. "I'll miss you, too." says Blonde Mo. 
And Saint Mary's will surely miss the two leaders, the two sports captains, the two, Maureen "Mo" O'Briens. 

are $3.00. 
e e e 



Digger 


(continued from page 8) 
haven't been sold it yet," Phelps adds. 
"We're not only going to have an enviable program because it's Notre Dame," says DiStanislao, "but it will be enviable because ofthe program itself. Being the same sport, with the same goals and simi4r potential, plus having coach Phelps and all his experience in the same office will be good for the sport, good for morale and help to expand the family atmosphere that exists about Notre Dame athletics in another direction." 
Of course, the personal challenge and oppor­tunity for DiStanislao to make a place with Notre Dame's reputation into a producer and market for women's basketball may be all the sport needs to begin attaining credibility in massive proportions. 
"I definitely consider myself in a very enviable position," says DiStanislao. "Having both teams under one department is intelligent and I think it will serve as a model program. As far as Digger is concerned, he'll be able to help me immensely, especially with regard to recruiting. When I was at Northwestern, although we did very well, a lot of what I did amounted to playing it by ear. With Digger, you've got a master who's turned it into a science." 

Immediate challenges for the Lady Irish include, on the revamped Division I schedule for 1980-81, trips to North Carolina State, Philadelphia (for a date at the Palestra), an afternoon visit from Evelyn(sister ofMagic)Johnsonand the nationally ranked Gamecocks of South Carolina, and a variety of doubleheader dates with the men's varsity. 
But Digger has a more elaborate picture of the women's future in the round at the A.C.C. 
"I want to see. the day when we've got Old Dominion right here," he says pointing to the double-domed edifice across the road from Jake Klein's diamond, "And this place is packed and rocking. When I first came here, football made me. I think football and basketball can carry the women and make them go. . 
"Look what she did at Northwestern," Digger adds with nod to DiStanislao, now seated by the dugout along the first baseline. "If she can do the same thing with what she's got here... " 
The sentence trailed off. He didn't have to finish. 
Baseball 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Yesterday's Results 

Cincinnati 7, Atlanta 1 Houston .5, Los Angeles 4 St. Louis 6, Chicago 4 Montreal 3, New York 0 Philadelphia .5, Pittsburgh 4, 
14 innings San Diego 12, SanF rancisco .5 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Yesterday's Results 

Oakland 6, Texas 3 Toronto 6, New York 4 Boston 4, Cleveland 3 Baltimore 2, Detroit 0 Seattle 4, ChiCago 1 Minnesota 1.5, Milwaukee 2 California 4, Kansas City 3 

-
-
• 
St. Mary's 

namesakes play 
the same game 
hy Beth Huffman Sp~rts Editor 
When the Saint Mary's tennis 
tearr takes to the courts today at 
Valparasio it will be led by its two 
senior ;nembers, Maureen 
O'Brien and Maureen O'Brien. 
Confused? 
The rather strange situation, 
two completdy unrelated team­
mates with the exact same name, 
is i-nhanct~d bv the fact that both 
Belle tennis· players share the 
nickname "Mo." 
A distinction was made be­
tween tht! two Mo's early after 
rheir arrival to the Saint Mary's 
(ampus. The pair found them­
~clves with nearly the same set of 
rriends, and those friends de­
veloped the titles "Blonde Mo" 
.llld ''Brown Mo'' due to the 
obvious differenct· in their hair 
color. 
"Everyone asks us, 'Hey, 
what's with the names?' or if were 
related," says BrownMo, a native 
of Oak Park, Ill. "Our mail gets 
mixed up and our schedules did 
this year, too. Our friends came 
up with the names 'Blonde and 
Brown Mo.' We even get letters 
addressed that way sometimes. 
"Sophomore and junior year we even lived on the same floor so it was kind of confusing." 
Brown Mo, the captain of this year's· tennis squad played number-six singles last year for the Belles and teamed with Terri Bracken to compete in number­three doubles. Bracken and O'Brien advanced to the quarter finals in the Indiana small college Maureen "Brown Mo" O'Brien (top) and teammate Maureen "Blonde 
Mo" O'Brien (bottom) will lead the St.Mary's tennis team into action
(continued on page 7) 
today af(ainst Valparaiso. (photos by Chris Spitzer) 
Hoops under one roof 
Digger's now the ladies' man 





Gary Grassey 


excttmg, the playoffs are going to become lucrative, and the television is gonna take to it. 
"Plus, I think we've got the right coach to make it go," he adds with a nod to the 29-year-old woman attired in sweats, standing, ironically, on the outfield grass atJake Klein Field with baseball glove-in-hand. 
You see, Sunday afternoon marked an early phase in the effort to promote the idea of a basketball department under one roof. Granted, a softball game between the men's and women's basketball players and staff was art insignificant mark on the road to national prominence, but the message was clear. 
"It's a simple matter of economics that we'll be making soQJ.e road trips together (cutting food and transportation costs)," Phelps remarks, "But because we're going to integrate our programs­
put all the revenue and all the organization under one department-with what we can offer both academically and athletically, in t~ree years we'll be up there with the Old Dominions, the Tennessees, and the Louisiana Techs.'' 
In the majority of sports programs at the state school level, the men's and women's programs have been segregated. Disunity, disorganization, and general lack of communication on the ad­ministrative level has prevented athletic depart­ments from maximizing their resources. 
"We're gonna sell the academics to the girls who 
(continued on page 7) 

Wednesday, September 10, 1980-page 8 
L
rish 
by Bill tems Marquard 
MUSICAL COACHES-Less than one month after Dan 
Devine's historic announcement of his resignation as head 
football coach, one of the favored choices for the vacancy 
already has been virtually eliminated. 

Respected coach Don Shula has reportedly inked a three-year 
pact with the Miami Dolphins, extending his contractual 
obligations with the NFL club through 1983. Thatshould end a 
lot of the rumors from "very reliable" sources (e.g. milkmen, 
cabbies, ushers, basketball coaches) that Shula has done 
everything from visiting South Bend to buying a house here in 
the last few weeKs. 

IT'S THE THOUGHT THAT COUNTS-After spurning 
Notre Dame in its annual football picks, this week's issue of 
Sports Illustrated features a story on Notre Dame's win over 
Purdue. 

The end of the article by Doug Looney seems objective, yet 
provocative. A press release from Sports Illustrated quotes: "Late 
last Saturday night, looking down on South Bend from a party 
atop the St.Joseph Bank Building, Devine poked fun at his own 
personality, a personality thatsome find they can catch a cold 
from just standing next to. He said, 'You know what charisma 
is? Charisma is winning.' By the end of the season even Dan 
Devine may be charismatic." 

TAKE A NUMBER-Notre Dame's football schedule, 
which perennially reads like a Who's Who in the Top Ten, is 
complete through the 1990 grid season. Every opening in the 
schedule for the next decade has been filled, and only roinor 
rearrangement is expected (thanks to ABC). ' 
The Irish scheduling powers particularly expect to continue 
Notre Dame's classic Midwestern rivalries with Big Ten foes 
Michigan, Michigan State and Purdue. In fact, tentative 
arrangements for someIrish games _llave already beenset for the 
year 2000. 

By that time; some of our children might be here as 
students-probably laughing at the Alumni in our wild 
doubleknits, tams, monograms and ... (lzod help us) ... gators! 
TEN YEARS WAR-Two weeks ago we reported the results 
ofa study ofthe top ten football teams ofthe '70s. Notre Dame 
had the eighth best record for the decade, and further 
compilations have revealed its standing in seven otherstatistical 
categories: 

eRushing offense-12th at 246.4 yards per game 
ePassing offense-19th at 159.5 yards per game 
eTotal offense-7th at 405.9 yards per game 

escoring offense-11th at 27.38 points per game 
eRushing defense-3rd at 122.0 yards per game 
eTotal defense-4th at 249.7 yards per game 

escoring defense-4th at 12.44 points per game 
DIAMOND DOINGS (It's corny, but...)-Notre Dame's 
baseball squad opens "fall training" this week with a 
doubleheader againstlndiana State slated for Sunday. The team 
will play 15 games (weather-permitting) during· its fall 
exhibition season, including an appearance in the Bradley 
tournament in October. 

One of the biggest attractions of this work-on-fundamentals 
slate is the Alumni Game, which will pit the current baseballers 
against graduates from past Irish teams. This year's faceoff is 
slated for October 11th at 9 a.m., the morning of the Miami 
football game. 

GETTING THEIR KICKS ON THE AIR-Rich Hunter's 
Irish soccer squad, sporting a 1-0 record going into tonight's 
home contest against Grace College, have three moregames on 
tap in the next week. After hosting DePaul on Friday, the 
hooters will face their first major test of the season when they 
travel to St. Louis on Sunday. 

The battle against the perennially tough Billikens wiU be broadcast starting at 2 p.m. on WSND-AM radio, 6400 on your on-campus dial. The landmark broadcast is the first Irish road soccer game ever radioed back to Notre Dame, and only the second to be aired in the team's history. 
BETTER HOMES AND OFFICES-Irish basketball coach Digger Phelps' office recently received its bi-annual facelift. Pletcher's Furniture of Nappanee, Ind. provides the interior furnishings for the coaches' quarters, selling all the pieces after their two-year service. 
This year's design features cherry wood, brass and glass, with off-white and burgundy upholstery. Who knows, he might have a suit made for the Marquette game to match the office. 
Office furnishings for football and other athletic offices are provided by several booster clubs and individuals, including the Quarterback and Kickoff Clubs. 
A WOMEN'S WORLD-The Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley is sponsoring a special luncheon for Coach 
Devine and his wife on Saturday, September 15that noon in the 
Monogram Room of the ACC. 

The lunch, which will feature all the coaches wives, is for women only and a qpestion and answer period is also scheduled. Tickets are $4.50 per person and reservations may be rrtade by calling the football office. 

Four winters ago, in her first full season as head coach of the women's basketball team at Northwestern University, Mary DiStanislao was strolling through the corridors inside the A.C.C. prior to a ballgame between her Wildcats and the Lady Fighting Irish, when she found herself amidst the spacious offices then and now occupied by Digger Phelps and his staff. 
"I told them," said DiStanislao of her con­frontation with the reigning leaders of the only kind of basketball Notre Dame has ever been recognized for, "that this was the place I wanted to ?,e someday.'' · 
J Four years, 89 victories, two Big Ten titles, and two A.I.A. W. quarter-finalists later, and ''Mary DiStanislao ts here as the new women's head coach. And if all goes according to a marvelous three-year plan that she will orchestrate with the aid of chairman of the newly-conceived Department of Basketball, Digger Phelps, the young \\'Oman who built a legitimate basketball power at Northwestern may soon find herself headlining a new era in ~omen's sports. 
"The market potential 'is there for women's basketball," predicts Phelps. 
Remember, it was only eight or nine years ago that Digger and De:m Smith of North Carolina went out qf their way to jump on the lucrative bandwagon that has become NBC-TV's weekend college basketball extravaganza. Phelps took the time then to adjust his schedule to meet the demands of nationwide audiences with his brand of entertaiment and now, in his role as basketball chairman, he is opening doors for the women, in anticipation ofwhat he feels will become a very big time operation. 
"I don't even think it's a gamble," remarks Phelps. "Ifyou run it right(women's basketball), I think it can be a revenue sport. The style ofplay is 






