, , , Bookstore -Page 8 

VOL. XIV, NO.~ an mdependent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 

Moscow Olympic games may be cancelled, says IOC 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. (AP)-The Olympic Games in Moscow will be canceled if the United States can get enough important countries to go along with its boycott, 8 members of the international Committee predicted yesterday. "The IOC doesn't want to see any half-baked games," said Douglas F. Roby, who has represented the United States on the international committee since 1952. 
The United States would have to obtain a boycott pledge from such nations as Great Britain, France, West Germany, Australia, New Zealand and Canada for the games to be canceled, Roby said. 
At the urging of the Carter administration, the U.S. Olympic 
Committee voted Saturday in a meeting at Colorado Springs to boycott the July games. The boycott is a protest against the Soviet military presence in Afghanistan. 
The Carter Administration has predicted that 50 of the 142 nations slated to go to Moscow will go along with the boycott. Great Britain has decided to go to Moscow. France generally has been cool to a boycott, but has not yet made a decision. 
West Germany will decide May 15. Over the weekend, Chan­cellor Helmut Schmidt said that country's Olympic Committee should vote against going if Soviet troops were not out of Afghan­istan by late next month. In Australia, Pime Minister Malcolm Fraser said yesterday, "I believe now that an effective boycott will emerge." The Australian Olympic Committee will vote on the matter next month. 
The New Zealand government has announced it is against a boy­cott. In Canada, the government is to decide in two weeks whether to send a team to the games. 
The 82 year old Roby, who is to retire from the committee this summer, said he doubted any cancellation decision would be made by the IOC Executive Committee at a meeting in Causanne, Swit­zerland, April 21-23. 
"That's only a little more than a week away," said Roby. "The gen~ral session will meet a week before the Games, so there will be time to act. 
[continued on page 4] 


SMC Student Gov't prepares activities 
by Ann McAuliffe 
Saint Mary's College Student Government officers have al­ready begu_n_ work on next year's acnvltles, accordmg to Kathleen Sweeney, President-elect. _ 
"We have already started planning the annual College-to­CaJ:eer Days and we have a head start on planning Political Week, a new program designed to create and strengthen politi­cal awareness,'' Sweeney said. 

Other key items mentioned in 
the officers'-elect platform, in­
cluded the expansion of social justice programs (such as World Hunger Coalition and FLCO) and the coordination of scheduling of guest speakers, 
movies,  and  concerts.  The  
establishment  of  the  travel  
information  exchange  board  

and the consumer card service (which would allow student discounts from local mer­chants), is also in the planning 
An artist has the talent to portray the world on paper, as this artist attempts to depict his view ofSpn·ng. [photo by R.].D.] 
stage. 
''The main goal of the Board of Governance right now is to set the calendar of events for 1980-81 before the end of the school year," Sweeney noted. ''Then we will return to school earlier this fall for one week of intense planning." 
The Student Government Officers, which include Kathy Sweeney, President-elect, Nini Stoll, Vice President-elect of Student Affairs, and ] oan Me Carty, Vice President-elect of Academic Affairs, head the Board of Governance. The Campus Commissioner, and Board itself is comprised of Co-Ex Commissioner. nine commissioners, and class ''Once the apfointments are 
and hall presidents. The c?m­completed, we' I be able to start missioners, whose appoint­orientation for the new mem­ments are currently in review. bers by providing job descrip­
will be announced Wednesday tions and expectations of each or Thursday. They consist of: commission,'' Sweeney com­Student Activities Prpgram mented. 
Board (SAPB) Commissioner, As current Vice President of Election Commissioner, Devel­Student Affairs, S~t;eney pla11S opment Commissioner, Athletic to make the transltlon of gov­Commissioner, Public Relations ernment by helping the new 
Commissioner, ] udicial Pro­Board of Governance to estab­grams Board Commissioner, lish goals and directives for the Spiritual Commissioner, Off-coming year. 
MONDAY, APRIL 14, 1980 
Studentgov'! plans · 

Earth Week 
by Andy Segovia 

The Notre Dame Student Gov­ernment and the International Student's Organization (ISO) are sponsoring a conference-fin the third world this week ac­cording to Roman Macia, Third World Concerns Commissioner. The One Earth Week will include a series of lectures and films·, a sale of importeq--ba.nd­crafts from around the ·world, and a gala International F-¢~Ji­val, Macia said. . ·ii According to Macia this year\; festival will feature NO faculty members and graduate stud­ents who deal with problems and issues ·of developmg coun­tries. ''Last year the confer­ence was able to include J>rom­inent Third World expens__:t_:r__o_··t
around the country, hctne.ve , since our budget was drastit:al cut we were unable to include national figures,'' Macia stated. 1 
The conference began la~t night with a _lect';lre on 
tlMtddle East sttuauon by Pr ­fessor Alan Dowty. The con£(: ­ence will continue tonight wit lectures by Fr. Robert Pelton on Puebla, Mexico in the Audio­Visual Theatre of the CCE at 7:30p.m. and Dr. Hanna Vogt on the Holocaust and the West German Republic in Hayes­Healy Auditorium at 8 p.m. 
On Tuesday, a group of Cana­dian graduate students will present a film and lecture concerning the Quebec problem in Room 242 of O'Shaughnessy Hall at 7:30p.m. 
A lecture and film concerning Spain and the Basque problem will be presented by Antonio Irusta in the basement of LaFortune at 7:30. The presen­tation will be followed by a lecture on Rhodesian inde­pendence bv Ismael Muving,i--_ 
---4 [continued on pa~~~ 
·:~:.~:::!! 
Arizonawin 



Kennedy rides crest ofvictory into Pennsylvania 
By the Associated Press 
Although President Carter and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy fought to a virtual draw in weekend Democratic Party caucuses, the Massachusetts challenger rejoiced over his Arizona victory, saying ''The Southwest now has spoken.'' 
Kennedy campaigned on both coasts, spendmg his wee~­end searching for votes 10 California while continuing to stump h'ard for support in Pennsylvania. 
As the senator arrived in Philadelphia on an overnight flight from Los Angeles, he was ~reeted with news of his victory 10 Arizona, where Kennedy outpolled Carter by roughly 55 percent to 45 percent in_ the precinct caucuses. 
With 65 of 70 precincts report· ing, Kennedy led with 9,738 votes to 7,592 for Carter, and the Massachusetts senator's margin was growing. 
Kennedy seemed assured of eventually claiming 16 of the state's 29 delegates to the Democratic National Conven­tion, with Carter getting the other 13. While that would represent a net gain of only three delegates for the Massa­chusetts senator, Kennedy saw it as a bi~ psychological lift as the Apnl 22 Pennsylvania primary draws near. 
It wasn't a lost weekend for Carter, by any means. The president, who held a more than 2-1 national delegate lead over Kennedy ·going into the caucuses, picked up another half-do_zen delegates in South Carolina and maintained his hold on Virginia. 
Early returns from party con­ventions in the four largest counties in the state of Wash­ington indicated Carter was hanging onto the lead he mus­tered in that western state in 
precinct  caucuses  held  last  
month.  
With 1 ,666 votes  needed for  

· nomination, the president had 
garnered 891 delegates before Saturday's n-und of caucuses. 
Kennedy  had  won  439  dele­ 
gates.  
Kennedy,  nonetheless,  was  

ebullient over the Arizona showing. He summoned travel­ing members of the press corps to an unusual Sunday moring news conference, asserting: 
''T!le Southwest has now spoken. The Northeast has spoken. The next state is Pen­nsylvania and we look forward to carrying the same message. . . and we're hopeful ofgetting a similar response." 
The message Kennedy was referring to was his often-re­(continued on page 3] 
~ --­



INews in brief 
Monday, April14, 1980 -page 2 
Role ofreligion
·54die as Brazilian jetliner 

BUsiness symposium begins today
crashes during severe ·storm 
FLORIANOPOL_IS •. Brazil ~AP)-A Br~zilian jL.Jiner 
by Michael Mader 
Goulet, a philosopher 
con­approaching thts tsland-clty m a ramstorm crashed and 
StaffReporter cerned with the ethics of devel­exploded in flames, killing 54 of the. persons aboard, 
opment, is currently the O'Neill authorities reported yesterday. 1bey satd four passeng~rs 
Professor, Education for Justice survived. The Iransbrasil Airlines Boeing 727 was carrytng 
Political acttvtsts, future at Notre Dame, and an asso­50 passengers and ei~ht crew members, all Brazili.a_ns, 
business executives and indivi­ciate fellow of the Overseas when it crashed on thts island off the southern Brazthan 
duals interested in good de­Development Council. Goulet wast Saturday night, the airline said. Reswe operations 
bates should attend the "Judeo has published six books and 79 were called off at dusk yesterday, and authorities said 
Christian Vision ancf the articles, most concerned with ''There are no more survtvors up there.'' Modern Business Corporation'' development· and third world symposium beginning today at countnes. 2 p.m. in the main Auditorium Novak, author of 15 books 
of the Center for Continuing including two novels, is Education. Fifteen speakers presently a twice-weekly col­will discuss the role of busi­umnist for the Universal Press 
nessmen in a religious society. Syndicate. Novak will discuss 
State troopers leave town 
as racialproblems subside 
the need for theology of eco-
The speakers will consist of 
[continued on page 5]
businessmen and professionals
WRIGHTSVILLE• Ga. (AP)-Most state troopers Ieft the 
from nationally recog-nized uni­
downtown area of this racially divided town yesterday as 
versities as well as Notre Dame 
q•tiet returned after civil rights and white power 
faculty members. The speakers 

WSND
demonstrators dispersed. But local. blacks vowed to 
have a wide variety of back­
continue their struggle against a powerful county sheriff. 
grounds including .IJlanagement, 
ANNOUNCES IMMEDIATE OPENING 
"The march is not over. The march is just begun," said 
philosophy, government, law 
John Marrin, local president of the Southern Christian and theology. 
FOR

Leadership Conference. "On Tuesday, we're going to 
Some of the more interesting
march to the sheriff's office and suggest he come out and 
ADVERTISING SALES
sessions should be held by Dr.
talk.'' Nearly 200 protest marchers, most of then1 black, 
Burton Leiser, speaking on
marched to the downtown courthouse Saturday in protest of 
Human and Religious Values 

MANAGER
alleged economic discrimination and other grievances that 
and the Corporation, and by
many ) ohnson County blacks blame on Sheriff Roland 
call7425 between 3 and 5 for ,1
Catherine Cleary, a business­woman speaking on Under­
Attaway. 

MENT 
standing the Corporation.
Influx ofU.S. physicians 
Other speakers include Dr. Denis Goulet, a Notre Dame faculty member speaking on the 

lfinigbta of<Unlumbu.a
forseen by the year 1990 
Future Role of the Corporation and writer Michael Novak dis­

presents:
..... 

cussing Dimensions of the
WASHINGTON (AP)-The number of physicians in the Challenge. 
Alfred Hitchcock's
United States is growing at su~h a rapid rate that the nation 
may have more doctors by 1990 than it needs, a newly 
Leiser is presently a profes­
released government reported asserted yesterday. In a 
sor of philosophy at Drake 
' 'Northby Northwest' ' 
report to President Carter and Congress, the Departmeiu of 
University. . From 1969-72 
Health, Education and Welfare predicted that _P,hysician 
Leiser was an associate profes­
~

requirements for the century's, final decade wtll range 
sor of ) udaic Studies and 
between 553,000 and 596,000. The number of doctors in 
Philosophy at Concordia 
Mon., Tues., Wed., 
#

1990 "could bring about an unprecedented ability to 
University in Montreal and 
' ~:\
balance supply and demand for health services," the report 
much of his work has dealt with 
/. ' 
Apr.14, 15, & 16.
said. 
Judaism. 

Cleary, called by some the 
7&9:30pm

highest ranking business­



Weather 

woman in the country, is 
~ 
KofCHall

presently an adjunct business 
professor at the University of 
-~ 
Periods of rain through tonight. Rain may be mixed with 
Wisconsis at Milwaukee. At snow or sleet at times. Highs in the mid 40s. Lows tonight 
NORTH BY NORTHWEST 
the symposium, Cleary will 
in the upper 30s. Cloudy and chilly tomorrow. Highs near 
respond to the ability of the 
40. 

Admission : $1.00
corporation to reform and change itself, using the role of women in business as an 
Members : free 
example.

CamP-_u_s_ _..,. 

Night Editor:M. Teri Mi'chie
10 am -4 pm ENGINEERS WEEK begins with displays set 
lutti up in FITZPATRICK HALL. 

Asst. Night Editor: Mike 
$50 DEPOSIT (non
Monk,· . 6.4~ pm ROSARY ~aily at the GROTTO. 


_ refundable)
Copy Editor:L;•nne Daley, 
News Editor:) ohn McGrath,
-& lJ:30 pm FILM "north by northwest," K OF C HALL. 
Sports Layout:John Smith,
;rdrnission S1, members free. 
Typists: Paula Shea, Katie 
for S415 SENIOR TRIP 
Bigane, Marilyn Broderick,
7: HI pm FILM & DISCUSSION "puebla~ liberation theology 
Pat Schaunessy, Bill Swift,
9 an.~ the u.s." rev. robert pelton, esc, special director, nd 
to NASSAU
Proofreader: Rtck Freedman, 
in~r11urc tor clergy education. AUDIO VISUAL THEATRE 
ND Day Editor: Bod Ber­
Cl"E. 
noski, 

&the BAHAMAS 
SMC Day Editor: Peggy
~ prn LECTURE "existentialism consciousness," by eric Schneiman,\<~cgc'in. sponsored by students of the dept of gov't & 
IS DUE <oct 19-25)
Ad Design:Dave Wood,
rntcrnational relations, history & the general program. 
Anne Fink, CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION, RM 101. no 

Photographer: R)D 
;ldmrssion. 

~APRIL 15th, 16th, 
~ pn· LECTURE ''the holocaust & the modern west german 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is
republic.·' by dr. hanna vogr. sponsored by the german club. 
published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer ls8ubllshed 
HAt;GAR HALL AUD. 
and 17th 
by the students of Notre arne and
8:1~ pm RECITAL piano recital by gregory butler. UB 
Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions
AUD. 

may be purchased for $20 per year 
SMC deposits 6-8_Lemons.'
($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second. class 
9 pm MEETING floc support committee. all invited. 
LAFORTUNE BALLROOM. 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 
ND Deposits 11-2 Lafortune 
46556. 10 pm DISCUSSION & REFLECTION fellowship of 
The Observer Is a member of the 
Associated Press. All reproduction 
??? ANNE 7850 MIKE 1623
christian athletes. DILLON HALL CHAPEL. 
rights are reserved. 

OONNA4-1-4868 PATTY 4-1­
• • I I • -, •• • • ~ ~. I ..1 I ' ... ' ,. • ~ ~ 'I Ill'·~ . • • -. .. • .. -\ • 




•• , 0 I'' ,o :·.~·-·~· .:••.•,,:_;_·, .. _____ ~__ ....· .. :.-·-ru"Jruixuu·;J-~Jii-i'~-if1.~:.n--Jtr r:l-'-1).-!-"" \ ·r-v'r· )'·("~fl.,,. !:'-• f,. ... £" ,.
..: __ , _ 7-ft ._·•... l.. 
0:~·-· i O,"V1~"''1<l"r~fl.1<-lw.+.{-;.(~~-11UUUI.Jl.l1 ., 
The Observer Monday, April14, 1980 -page 3 
~--­
Rebels behead·son ofex-president 
By the Associated Press 
The rebels who seized power in Liberia beheaded the son of assassinated President William R. Tolbert Jr. and killed two of Tolbert's senior aides, including his son-in-law, Liberian diplomatic sources said yesterday. 
The West African nation's new leader, an obscure 28 year old army master sergeant named Samuel K. Doe, appointed a cabinet of soldiers and civilians, including the leader of Liberia's banned leftist opposition party. 
Doe also quickly set up a six-member military tribunal to prosecute an unspecified num­ber of senior officials of the Tolbert government on charges of ''rampant corruption'' and 
''gross  violation  of  human  
nghts,"  said  the  state-run  
Liberian  radio,  monitored  in  
London.  

The new head of state de­clared Sunday that ''everything is under control" and urged Liberians to go about their normal business, the· radio announced. 
Liberia, a country of 1.7 million people founded in 1847 by freed American slaves, has long maintained close ties with the United States. The State Department said Satur­day that Washington would continue normal diplomatic relations with the new regime. 
Saturday's early-morning coup came as a surprise to most of the outside world, but British legislator Steve Stone, who left Liberia only 24 hours before the coup, told reporters he had "sensed the army were all over the place .... Opposition members I spoke to hinted things were not well.'' 
Doe and his soldier follo­wers, with the backing of army generals, stormed the presi­dential palace in the capital city of Monrovia at 2 a.m., and the 66-year old Tolbert and a body~uard were killed in an ens4mg gunbattle, according to reports from Liberian and 
...Kennedy 
(contin?Jedfrom page 1] 

peated assertion that Carter has mishandled the nation's econo­my and doesn't deserve another term in office. The senator cited Arizona as fresh evidence that Democrats are repudiating Carter's "flawed and failed economic policies.'' 
/ In another development, White House press secretary J ody Powell said over the weekend that Carter "is likely a few point lower'' than Kennedy in the latest polls taken advance of the Pennsylvania primary. Powell refused to cite any specific polls, but told report­ers: "We are probably at best about even and more· likely a few point lower'' than Ken­
nedy. 
ROCCOS I 

men's and women's hairstyling at comfortable prices 531 N. Michigan 233-495> 
other source~ in Monrovia and abroad. 
Liberian diplomatic sol:.rces in Bonn, West Germany, said they had a report from Mon­rovta that Tolbert's son, A.B. Tolbert-regarded as a possible successor to his father-was beheaded. 
The sources also said Tustice Minister Gerald]ablon and Tolbert's son-m-law, National Defense Minister Burleigh Holder, were shot dead. 
Diplomats in Monrovia reported hearing scattered gunfire in the city hours after the coup Satu~day, but it Lould not be deterrtuned whether any resistance continued. The coup leaders ordered a dusk-to­dawn curfew, closed the airport and all borders, and blockaded streets in the capital. 
The slain /resident's wife, Victoria, an Liberian Chief Justice ] ames A. Pierre were a_mong those reported in deten­uon. 
Tolbert had been president since 1971, carrying on a 100 year tradition of one-party rule by the True Whig Party, which is dominated by descendants of 
U.S. slaves. These "Americo­Liberians,'' who opened Liber­ia's doors to U.S. business and cultural influences, com­prise an elite of 3 percent of the population. 
Warner: 'halt the bloodshed' 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Vice President Bennie Warner of Liberia resigned yesterday and appealed for a "halt to the bloodshed" stemming from a military coup in the Afri(.an nation. 
Warner, a Methodist bishop, 
was  in  Indianapolis  for  the  
General  Conference  of  the  
United  Methodist  Church  

which begins tommorrow. He said in a telephone interview with the Associated Press that he recognizes "the fact of a new regime in Liberia'' and would want assurances of his safety before returning to Monrovia. 
"I want to appeal to my fellow countrymen to spare the lives of those now up for execution,'' he said. '')'hose who are charged with any crimes should be brought to justice, and the courts can decide what the penalty should be.'' 

Warner said he would contin­ue his visit in the United States. 
''I am apprehensive about returning to Monrovia. I think I'd have to think twice about it. I think life is too important to just gamble with it. I want to make sure I get clearance from the present govern­ment." 
In an earlier telephone inter­view with the AP on Sunday from Nashville, Ind., where he attended another meeting of Methodist Bishops, Warner said his plans in this country were unchanged. 
"I will follow through on the 
assignment to which I have come. Thereafter, I do plan to return home. My original plans .were to return home in May. Now I don't know. I have not been able to make a telephone call because I couldn't get through." · 
_The Observer_ All Reporters: 
Absolutely
Mandatory
.Meeting 
TuesdayNight 7:30 

tf ~~, o· / -\• 


~0,1)-~1)\ 
YOU'VE FINISHED FOUR YEARS OF COLLEGE. NOW WHAT? 
The answer is to put your degree to work in the United St?tes Air Force. At>t"!Y now for Otficer Tram in~ &..i1ool and an Air Force commission. 
Upon completion of the school, you11 find challenging work and a satisfying job await you as an Air Force officer. Plus, the Air Force offers you an excellent salary ... ex­ecutive experience ... worldwide assign­ments ... living quarters ... 30 days of paid vacatiurl a yectr ... medical and dental care ... low cost life insurance ... and much, much more. 
It's one of the finest opportunities in the nation. Call today. For information, contact 
MSgt. Stan Steward 219-28 7-6616 

A greol way of life. 
Pre-advance registration programs will be conducted for freshmen in all college program areas on Tuesday, APRIL 15 at 6:30P.M. 
At each program complete information will be ~iven on the advance registration procedures and on the sophomore year and its relattonship to the degree curriculum. 
The meeting places for the programs, according to college programs, are as follows: 
Arts and Letters College Programs (all, including AL Pr..:professional) 
E n g i n e e r i n g A il'd i tori u m 
Business Administration College Pr :>gram 
Hayes-Healy Center, Room 122 
Engineering College Programs 
Aerospace 
Architecture Chemical 
Civil 
Electrical 
Engineering Science 
Mechanical 
Metallurgical 
Science College Programs 
Biology Chemistry Earth Sciences Mathematics Microbiology Physics Preprofessional 
(Science o~y) 
.. 

A 1hrough (}at 6:30P.M. H through 0 at 7:30 P.M. P through z at 8:30P.M. 
356 Fitzpatrick Hall 202 Architecture Building 207 Cushing Hall 205 Cushing Hall 212 Cushing Hall 254 Fitzpatrick Hall 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 105 Cushing Hall 
Galvin Life Science Center Room 278 
..

Nieuwlaf?d Science Hall, R~om 341 
E!!rth Sctence Bldg., Room 101 Compu.tlng Cctit~!' & Math Bldg., Hoom 300 Galvtn Life Science Center, RuG~ !02 Nieuwland Science Hall Room 327 Nieuwland Science Hall~ Room 127 
Ali ~1tESHMEN ARE REQUIRED TO ATrEND TtiE PROGRAM OF THE COLLEGE OR DEP 1:RTMENT THEY INTENDTO ENTER IN TI!n SOPHOMORE YEAR 


The Observer Monday, April14, 1980 -page 4 

statement Sunday that the executive committee would ''review the
ALL~ 

situation'' at its meetin~ next week. Anita DeFrantz of Pnnceton, N.]., a rower who has acted as
Look Into AMERICA. 
spok'!swoman for the U.S. athletes since Carter called for the boy­
~\\ 

9~ 
cott in]anuary, said some athletes still were considering a lawsuit
America: The Datsun 
against the USOC for preventing them from competing in Moscow. 
Student Travel Guide 
~ 

BLUE MANTlE
FREE FROM: Notre Dame Student 
STUDENTS 

now accepting applications for . Unionat the Dining Halls 
Editor, Asst. Editor, Copy Editor,
Measurements Copy Writer, Photography Editor,
will be taken 
TIPPECANOE PLACE RESTAURANT 
Business Manager
IS NOW HIRING RESTAURANT PERSONNEL
for 

Student Activities Office-SMC
full or part time;day and night shifts 
Deadline-A ril 21
high wages; excellent benefits training:classroom and on the job 
cordial atmosphere
_CAPS 

FOOD WAITERS AND WAITRESSES BUSBOYS/BUSGIRLS COCKTAIL WAITRESSES DISHWASHERS BROILERCOOKS
and 

HOSTESSES BARTENDERS PREP COOKS MAINTENANCE MEN 
APPLY IN PBSON BETWEEN 9:00am S 6:00pm 
MONDAY THRU SATURDAY
GOWNS 
Student activities Offlce-SmC TIPPECANOE PLACE 
AT. EOE-M/F 
TuesdaVAprl15 
Deadline Aptll 21st 
and . 
Wednesday Aprll16 
JUDICIAL COUNCIL STAFF 
Notre Dame Pre-law Society Between 
. 

Anyone interested in working with the 
Is taking applications for officer's positions 
9:00-4:30 Judicial Council in 1980-1981 
torthe 1980-81 school year. 
atthe 
NOTRE 

Anyone interested, pleasepick up
Applications are available from the 
•
DAME 

Student Government Secretary now. 
application and retum to 101 O'Shag. 
2nd floor LaFortune
OOKSTORE 
byMonday,April14.
* DUE APRIL 18th * 
In Lebanon • 
Militiamen cl~h with UN troops 
TEL AVIV· Israel (AP)-U.N. peacekeeping troops went on full alert in southern Lebanon yesterday after a bloody clash with Christian militiamen in a disputed village and a ·'savage" bombardment of 
U.N. headquarters, U.N. offi­cials rerorted. 
lsrae declared it had with­drawn the last of its soldiers from southern Lebanon. A -.pokesman for the military 
ommar.d said, "The forces have completed their tasks and hdve left the area of south l.t"banon." 
The troops, estimated by 
_/-. 

ATTENTION 
U.N.spokesmen to total about 350, first entered Wednesday in retaliation for a Palestinian guerrilla attack on an Israeli borJer settlement in which three Israelis anu five raiders were killed. But Israeli televi­sion said the number of troops was considerably lower. 
Top officers from the U.N. force, from the Lebanese Christian militi'is and from Israel, which backs the militia­men, met at the northern Israeli town of Nazareth in an a~tempt to defuse the ~xplosive Situation. No details were given after the meeting, but Israeli television reported the commander~ agreed to confer . again later m the week. 
In New York, members of the U.N. Security Couoncil met at Lebanon's request. Most of the hour-long session was behind closed doors, but h was opened to the public to hear Secretary-General Kurt Waldheim's report. 
Waldheim c~aimed the Leba­nese militiarrwn had fired first on the U.N. troops. His report said the U.N. force had been subjected to "extreme difficul­
ties  and  dangers''  and  had  
''exerci· ed  maximum  re­ 
straint.''  

"However, soldiers cannot be expected indefinitely to put up with harassment, abuse and VIOlence in carrying OUt the duties entrusted to them by the Security Council of the United Nations," the report said. 
The Israelis and Lebanese Christians comend the U.N. truce troops, supposedly a buffer between Palestinian guerillas and the Israeli border have failed to stop guerrilla infiltration. · Saturday's U.N. militia clash 
occurred at Tiri, a U.N. con­trolled village five miles north of the Israeli border where 
Christian militia leader Maj. 
Saad Haddad has been trying to station some of his irregu-Iars. 

[continuedfrom fage 1] · 
· In Moscow, Meanwhlle, the Sovit.t news agency Tass bitterly denounced the Carter adminstration and the USOC. ''To work its will, the White House acted in the spirit of the worst era of McCarthyism," Tass said. Athletes and sports officials who favored going to Moscow were .. "openly accused of betraying national interests," Tass said. In Lausanne, Lord Killanin, President of the IOC, said in a brief 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
DteObse~
;..,-"W=-~======= Editor-in·Chief............. Paul Mullaney S,\fC Nru·s Editor ........... Mary Leavitt Bo:r;: Q, Notre Dame, IN 46JJ6 d f h M.anaging Editor .............. Mark Rusr Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman The Observer ~~ an Independent newspaper published by the stu ems o t e Ed.t · 1 r::: .J1·ror Mike Onufrak Feal11res Editor .............. Kate Farrell 
· d · C II I d I zonasc:.u. .. , .. ,..... r::: Ed. M II W •c
lfnivc:~'Z.irv of Notre Dame du La..can . Samt M.ary 1 s. o. ege. t oes not ~ecessan Y •. · C ,t. Ed.t L Dal..\" rt!atures ztor...... ...... o y ouue 
·1 f h Th c1 .lt'ntor OrJ 1 or......... ynne ... . Ph Ed. J h M
rotflect tht policies of the admm1strauon .o eu e~ msnt mon. e news ~~ r_eporte .., E" J" p [} oto ztor .................. · o n acor ."-> accurately and as objectively as poss1ble: ~duo_n •J represent the opmwn .of • ·veu·s artur · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · am ~gnan lllajority o( the Editorial Board ..Com":lenta: •..s, opm. J.1s, and letters are the v1ews ·Vt•u·s Editr · .. · · · .. · .... · Tom .J arkuan Business A· 1 ·•g,•r ......... Greg Hedges 
of their' authors. Column SJ.>ace 1s avatlablt' fl> .a members of the c~mmumty I and N11u • ,. / 1v1· . . . . . . .... John MrG:ath Advertisi11g ~ ..zn.~: " .. Mike Holsinger 
I 'tt. ~ exprtssion of varymg opinions on r;c;.,.::::_,ii_.iii~'~t~t,~ro~u~g~hiiliieiiiiirtiieriisii,iilsiieiiniiciioiiuriiaiigiiediii.iiisi:,1~...'..-Eii-·•.t:iiaii,riiitiii•eiiit:.!ii:d.iiriituiiriijii.iii.iiMiiiaiirgitiiit:iif_.riidiissiiiliiiiiPiiro.tliiiilliiciiitz;o;,iii'Wiiaiinaiiiiiigiitrii_ii_.•.iiAiiniiiniiMociiiiiaiigiihanii1i 
-=s ··'i 
_._ 
The Observer Monday, Aprill4, 1980 -page 5 
... Earth Week 
[continued from page I] 

There will be an ''Irish Eve­ning'' presented by a group of ~raduate srudents on Thursday 10 the Rathskeller at 7:30p.m. The presentation will include a · film, discussion, and song. 
"Ifa student graduates from here and doesn't have· an international perspective, he'll be a dinosaur. That person is extinct." Mark Pasquerilla, ISO chairman commented. He explained that the primary goal of the week's festivities is to enlighten_ students of inter­national issues which are emerging in the news. 
•'The sale will include hand­crafts from a variety. of Third World nations including Mex­ico, the Phillipines, and African countries," Macia stated. 
''The products were obtained directly from the producers so students can expect some real bargains at the sale, " Macia continued. The hours for the marketplace are from noon to 5 p.m. 
Much of the funding for the Third World Concern week will be offset by the One-Earth Marketplace which will run from today through Thursday in 
. . . Business 
[continued from page 2} 
nomics in corporate life. 
According to Houck, the con­ference will be attended by corporate executives, represen­tatives of organized religions, activists, reporters of widely­distributed newspapers and professors from leading univer­sities. All local residents are invited to attend. 
The goal of the symposium is to "come up with an agenda of issues or concerns that will come from the religious side, " Houck said. The corporation is then expected to respond affir­
matively to the concerns but warn ''not to expect perfection, Houck continued. Issues Houck listed as relevant include the humanization of work, the woman's role in business and an ethical code ofconduct in the third world. 

Five speakers will give talks on Understanding the Corpora­tion beginning at 2 p.m. to<lay. Three of the speak~s; Wm. Sexton, Edward Trubac, and Fr.Enda McDonagh, are Notre Dame faculty members. S. Prakash Setht of the University ofTexas at Dllas and Cleary will be the other two featured speakers. 
The symposium will end on Wednesday with three talks which will speculate on· the furute role of the corporation. Richard Eells, a professor of Business at Columbia Univer­sity will argue that organized religion and corporations must 
grow together to stop the centralized state in business. Charles and Kenneth Jameson, both of the Economics department of Notre Dame will discuss economic development and rhe need for brotherhood between business and religion. 
Houck does not know if the conference members will be ready to set in writing what they have learned in the sym­posium. However, they hope to breed a spirit of "collaboration and goodwill between ..eligion and bw ine::·s," '{0' : sum.. 
1.••• ,, .. , _:·L.·.~· . .. .., :. . .. . .... 1 
.__,..._......_..._._~......--------­
to create an awareness of the needs ·and problems of develop­ing countries, "a number of students here have a very narrow cultural perspecti.ve, " Macia commented. , 
According to Macia, the con­ference will also aid in the cultural development and ad­justment of the international students. "'Ihe activities facili­tate the participation of the international srudents in the social aspect of the American culture," he said. 
Vogt to speakon Holocaust 
by Mary Fran Callahan next goal was to educate Senior StaffReporter German children about the 
holocaust in an effort to teach 
them how German "demo-
Dr. Hannah Vogt, a political cracy" failed. Vogt then spent scientist who resides in West time in England studying the Germany, will open this year's democratic syste_m.. . . ISO festival with her lecture Mark Pasquenlla, ISO chair­tonight entitled "The Holo-.man, explained that holo­caust ·and Modern German caustal education has always Democracy." · been an awkward issue in 
Vogt authored the book The Germany. Burden of Gutlt which ~encr-"You can imagine what it ated controversy when lt was would be like if a student's released in 1960. father was a Nazi," he said. 
Although she is a C~ristian, Pasquerilla cited a letter in her Vogt took a stand agamst the book's introduction which holo~aus~ when she s~w her explained Vogt's philosophy . Jewts_h fnends undergomg p~r-A German high school student secunon. German authonttes disturbed by the horror wrote then placed her in "protective to a friend about how emotion­custody'' at Moringen, a Nazi ally affected he was when he concentration. c~p. . . heard a recording containing 
After convmcmg authonnes Hider's speeches. The inten­that she wanted to complete sity of the letter indicates how her studies she was released ashamed the student was of from Moringen and went on to this part of his heritage. e<l!n a doctorate in political · sctence. Also in the letter, Vogt 
A zenith in Vogt's life was furthers her view of the impor­her r• ointment as the first tance of the holocaust by direc,_•r of West Germany's exposing the student's feelings voluntary welfare program. of frustration at not being able After resigning that job, Vogt's to overlook history. • 

the Department ofGovemment iJndthe College o.fArts and Letters pnsatsakctflt'B by 
Dr. Hannah Vogt notedHolocaust authoress and Germanpolitical commentator -official reporterfor the Hessen State Center ''The Holocaust andModem German J.Je:rrJujr;rat. 
Monday Apri/14 

CLUBS,ORGANIZATIONS, -CLASSES and HALLS 
FOOTBALL CONCESSION STAND 
Applications for 1980season now availible 
in STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE. 
DEADliNEfor filing application is APRIL . 

marized 

... -~-... '··-1'-=li::5':::::1=::9=80=.::::::;::.::===::~::::::::::::::===::::·:::::··::::::::···:::::::···=···::::•:!I' 

the main loungeof LaFortune. 
The conference will culminate with an International Festival on Sarurday in Washington Hall. The festival will feature singing, dancing and acting by both international and Ameri­can students. 
''Following the show there will be a wine and cheese reception in the Rathskeller where enter­tainment will be provided by-a group of Puerto Rican and Cuban students," Macia said. 
The goal of the conference is 

The Observer Monday, April14, 1980 -page 6 
. 

Molarity by Michael Molinelli 
. .. Golf 


1980 squad, O'Sullivan feels confident that this could be the 
Doonesbury by Garry Trudeau 



ACROSS 29 Newt 51 Malaccas 24 Roger's 1 En-32 Orate 54 Bad: pref. relative
The Daily Crossword 
6 Houston 35 Man from 55 Hastened 25 Too great campus Limerick 56 Religious to measure letters 37 Of wings sect 26 Source of 
9 Kitchen 38 Get the 57 British iodine wear drift of bar owners 27 Small wagon 14 Decided 39 -account 59 Nick of 28 Wipe off 15 Back road (not a of movies 29 Ferber hazard chance) 60 "It's-in 30 Ward off 16 Andean 40 Pacific the mind" 31 Where Helen transport shoreline 61 Hospital reigned 
17 Happen 42 "The-employee 32 Cuts wood 19 Buenos-Bunch" 62 Tire groove :33 Entreaty 20 Color 43 Utter 63 Jackie's 34 "-Rider" 21 -wieder-44 News flash sister 36 A Crosby 
sehen 46 Seagoing 64 Pittsburg 38 Nanny or 22 Intended title. output Billy 23 Ogygian 47 Shea 41 Disagreed 24 Draw a bead player DOWN strongly 25 DOE et al. 48 Sault­Words on 42 Wager 27 Met Marie a sampler 45 Archer of 
2 Showery legend time 46 Hostess
Friday's Results 
3 Easel Perle 4 Transmitted 48 Lean 5 Figueroa 49 Uptight 
1 amesakes 50 A Ford 6 Three-man 51 Insincere authority talk 7 Board or 52 Cupid 
casting 53 Shade of 8 Indian green 9 Shady walk 54 Stubborn 
10 ~!lows a one trade 55 Short tail 
11 -avis 57 Stan to 
12 Foretoken Ollie 
13 Cartoonist 58 Those 

All Rights Reserved 
18 Ache elected 


year. At this point, though, 
he will only say'that a bid is '~real is tic. " 
Baseball 
NATIONAL LEAGUE EAST 

W L Pet GB Pittsburgh 3 1 .750 Philadelphia 2 1 .667 1/2
Chicapo 2 2 .500 1 New ~ork 2 2 .500 1 Montreal 1 1 .333 1 1/2
St. Louis 1 1 .250 2 
WEST 

W L Pet GB Cincinnati 4 0 1.000 
Houston 3 1 .750 1 San Diego 3 1 .750 1 Los Anqeles 1 3 .250 3 
San Francisco 1 3 .250 3 Atlanta 0 4 .000 4 
Sunday's Games 
Montreal 5, Philadelphia 4, 10 

Innings New York 5, Chicago 0 Plttsburgh3, St. Louis 0 Cincinnati5, Atlanta 0 Houston 4, Los Angeles2 San Franciso 3. San Diego 1 
Monday's Games Chicago (Reuschel 0-1) at Pitts­burgh (Biyleven 0-1) San Franciso (Knepper 0-1) at Cincinnati (Patore 1-0), (N) 
Atlanta (Alexander 0-0) at Houston (R!chard 1-0) Los Angeles (Welch 0-0( at San Diego (Jones1-0), 
Only games scheduled 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
East 

W L PCT. Milwaukee 2 1 .667 New York 2 2 .500 
Boston 1 2 .333 Cleveland 1 2 .333 Baltimore 1 3 .250 Detroit 1 3 .250 Toronto 1 3 .250 
West 

W L PCT. GB Chicago 3 1 .750 Kansas City 3 1 .750 Seattle • 3 ·1 .750 California 2 1 .667 Vz Minnesota 2 2 .500 1 Oakland 2 2 500 1 Texas 2 2 .500 1 
Sunday's Games Boston 3, Milwaukee 1 
New York 9-8, Texas 4-2 
Chicago 5, Baltimore 2

All those those---· 
Kansas City 3, Detroit 2 
Calllornia 8, Cleveland 3 
Oakland 4. Minnesota 1

wishing to work on 
Seattle 5, Toronto 1 
Today's Games 
Milwaukee (Caldwell 0-0) at Toronto 

(Clancy 0-0) 
Detroit (Morris 1-0) at Boston (Ec­

kersley 0-0) 
New York (Griffen 0-0) at Chicago 

_SOPHOMORE 
LITERARY FESTIVAL 
(Burns 0-0), (n) Cleveland (Waits 0-0) at Texas (Medich 0-0) (n)
for next year 
Seattle (Parrott 1-0) at Oakland (McCatty 0-1), (n) Minnesota (Felton 0-0) at California
should contact Bill Lawer 
(Knapp 0-0), (n) Only 11ames scheduled
(3533/7757) 
Basketball 

or the Freshman Writing 
Yesterday's Results Boston 100, Houston 81 (Boston
· ·· Program 
leads series 3-0) Philadelphia 107, Atlanta 83 (Phila­delphia leads series 3-1) Seattle 112, Milwaukee 107 l o;erles
by Wed. April16 
lied at 2-2) Phoen lx 127, Los Angeles 1" · _; os -~.............................-~ngetes 1 ead~ series 3.11 
.. .. '' 

The Observer -Sports Monday, April14, 1980 -page 7 
' 

O'Sullivan eagerly awaits opening ofgolf season 
by Bill McCormick Sports Writer 
"This is the best team in 
terms of talent and chemistry 
I've ever had," says coach Noel 
O'Sullivan about his 1980 Irish 
golf team. And considering-the 
success of some of O'Sulhvans 
past squads, that is quite a 
statement for him to make. 
O'Sullivan's optimism primar­
ily stems from the fact that five 
of his top six players from last 
year's team, a team which 
barely missed gaining a bid to 
the NCAA tournament, have 
returned. 
Seniors Dave Knee and Hohn 
Lundgren will serve as the 
nucleus of the 1980 squad. 
Knee, this year's captain, has 
been a consistently strong per­
former in his 3-year career at 
Notre Dame. Lundgren, who 
finished the 1979 season with 
the lowest competitive average 
on the team, is one of a select 
number of golfers to ever win 
two consecutive Notre Dame 
Opens. 

Three juniors, Tim Sacheck, . Tom McCarthy, and Bill Mc­
Guinness, who had the 4th, 5th, 
and 6th best averages respec­
tively last season, should help 
provide the kind of experience 
the Irish will need to earn a bid 

to the national tournament at 
Ohio State in May. 
Stoney Ferlmann, the lone 
freshman on the team, will 
round out O'Sullivan's starting 
lineup this spring. Senior Jay 

Bryan and sophomore Robert 
Horak will fill the two remain­
positions on the eight-man Irish 
roster. 
The golf team made its annl!al 
trip to Florida over spring 
break, but thl.s year's excursion of past years. During his first six years as head golf coach O'Sullivan had taken his teams down to Florida to play in tournments with other schools. But in this (his 7th) season O'Sullivan changed the format of the trip.· 

''The purpose of this year's trip was to play the most challenging golf courses we could," 0'Sullivan explains. "In golf the course is the real opponent. So I felt that playing on some of Florida's toughest layouts would best help the players develop their individual skills and their self-confi­dence.'' 
In a little more than a week, the Irish golfers teed it up on seven of Florida's finest courses (Mel Reese, Biltmore, Fontainbleau, Indian Creek, Coral Ridge, Key Biscayne, and Jupiter Hills). The Jupiter Hills course, which many golf experts rank in the top 2) courses in the country, provid­ed the most challenging test. And it was only through a bit of luck that the Notre Dame team was able to play at this exclu­sive site. 
Upon their return from the Sunshine state, the Irish golfers traveled to Ball State last 
Monday to compete in the 15-team Ball State Invitational. Notre Dame\; 18-hole team score of 372 on the par-70 Whispering Oaks course was good for second place. Ball State, the host school, won the tournament with 369. Giving his reactions to this first e~ of the season, O'Sullivan said, "we expected to dowell at Ball State and losing by three strokes to the host school didn't disappoint us." . 
Bookstore BOxscore 
First roundaction Saturday, Apri/12-Sunday, Apri/13 
SATURDAY'S GAMES 
Team Xover Five Characters by 17 The Kids over The Fighting Buz­zards by Forfeit Dillonese Sky Walkers over Hooter­ville Five by 8 The Doctors over Bag and The Hose 
Monsters by 1 0 The Fog over Goshen Giggles by 11 Col. Bogey's over McGuns by 12 Back tor More over Four Guys 
With ...by 10 The Doobies over Uncle Remus by 2 
(OT) 'f' N w· ' 
The Classt ted ads over mo s Pidgeons by 16 The Band over What the Hell's...by 
15 The Mutants over The Tomes by 16 Goss13r Gang over Ronald Reagen 
by 3 Chico Escuela over C-Men by 10 Cowboy Spitler over Geoffrey 
Chaucer by 6 Wiley Brown over s-Pinto family by
4 ~ Lambchops overMissy Godfathers by 17 Totally Irresponsible over St. Ed's Studs by 3 The Golden ... over Rafael by 4 Carver High over The Mellow by Forfeit Roemer's Narc Squad over Meaty by 9 Hurtin' over Planet Clare by 10 Knack Whack ...over Lance and the Champs by 13 • Hill's Angels over Corder Rubbems by15Midnite Cruisers over Crimson Crowbars by 7 The Show that Never Ends over Abdul and the Jew-Shooters by 5 Natural High over Fighting Niners by 10 Who Are Those Guys? over Whips, Chains, etc ... by 4 Untense Megg Veges over 99 Percent by 15 Dillon's D.B.'s over Dick Four ...by 
3 
by Forfeit Mongo's Loids Ill over Roger Brown by 3 Pink Flamingo's over Pulla Bad Sceners by 14 Looks Like aTaco over Gacy's Boys CAmps by 14 . Kamakaze over Riverfront Coliseum cy6
Phil Latio over Sir Slamalots by 10 
Coneheads over We Come Early... 
D/4
l:lackcourt General over Mrs. 
Reagans by 12 
Calvin Murphy over Tony the Hook 
by Forfeit 
White Man's i'isease over Burger­
meister's by 7 
Whiz Kids over Five Moons by 6 
Queen City over Virgil Livers by 7 
Slime Train over Moon's Goons by 
13 
FM and the DJ's over Theri Meat 
by 2 (OT) 
Dismal but Daring over Abergo 's 
by 15 
Wizard of Oz over Bludgeon by 2 
SUNDAY'S GAMES 
69Prs over The Return of ROTC by 
5 
Bye over Harvey Wallbanger by 10 
The Muscte Spasms over The 
Surgeons by 2 (OT) 
Spanky and Our Gang over The 
Altoona Two by 14 
The Five Feces over Null Set by 15 
Scag 's Nags over Tigers by Forfeit 
This is the Best Name.. over 
Bolivian Blizzard by 7 · 
Buzz over Mike Shaffer by 9 
Dr. Dunk over Randy Gardiner by
15 
Capt. Ahab over The American 
Gigolos by 3 
Instant Diarrhea over Corporate 
America by Forfeit 
Blitzkrieg over Bruno by 12 
The W.V.D's over Stooster's 
UnLTD by 8 
Slamdunkers over Loids by 15 
Sellouts over Rev. Dr. Jones by 7 
Hunk Haley over Gabba Gabba Hey
by9 

Clinton Cores Cagers over Curtis Rebels by 5 Schlongs over Esophagus Constric­tors by 13 · Maturity over The Italian Stallions by5 
Lights Out over Mung Men by 12 

The 3 0' Clock Shooters over BigStick by 6 The Alley over The Five Fifths by 5 Second Best over Ralph by 5 Coulomb Moore over Olongapo ... 
by 14 Four Thinkers over Once a Month by 3 Deeks Freiks over Joe's Garage by15 Zip and ..the Cocoons over USA Boxing Team by 2 (OT) Vasseline Atley over Fish and the Fins by 18 Wrecking Ball Crew over Smells Like AFish by Forfeit Vasser Arafat over America's Team by 6 Average White Team over You Gottal Smell Somebody by 5 
Smirks over Duckie Fu by 10 

The' Iron City Athletic Club over Pontius Pilot by 8 Aunt Jemima over 1-3 F.S. by 17 The Typhoons o\'ilr Deasy and Jamieson by Forfeit 
Elton Moore over Fluff by 6 

The Samarian Bricklayers over Homer's Goat by 7 Nebos over Lay Your Thighs by 4 Chuck Connor over Henry Ford and 
His Blazing Pintos by 11 Where's McKernan over Save Foot­ball by 16 Disco Dean over Four Thrusts and a Stab by 6 Humor at the Expense over Five Easy Pieces by 19 Descartes over Four A's and a Hole by 7 The Boys over Floridacrowtrotters by 18 Another Brick over 4-C Bad Ma­chine by 10 
Bookstore Note: Bill Donlon set a Bookstore Basketball record, hitting 10 for 10 from the field in a Saturday contest. 

\ 

Monday, Apri114, 1980 -page 8 
~vorts 
First round play 

Doobies, Doctors drop opponents 
!ry Frank LaGrotta longest games in recent tourna­In another game played be­
· Sports 1¥'n'ter 

ment history occured Saturday 
hind the bookstore, Maggie
afternoon when the Doobies
I'IH' ninth edition of Notre Lally hit her first f9ur shots to I \;1111<' ·s Bookstore Basketball defeated Uncle Remus, 26-24. give The Doctors a 21-11 win '••LHnament Jot underway on The Doobies, complete with over Bag and the Hose Mon­·.11urday an Commissioner personalized uniforms,took one sters. Teammate Missy Con­linh S11T1ari reported"only a few hl}Ur and 45 minutes to pick up boy turned in a six-for-ten prohlrms," on the first two the overtime wir, in a game that shooting performance while l.r~·.., saw the lead change hands on John Whalen's seven-for-15 
· I here were a frw sr heduling numerous occasions. Larry boxscore led the winners. Mike i>~•·hlern" and a little ,·onfusion "Boot" Connor paced the win­Honerlaw shot seven-for-13 for ••11 tl1c part of some .teams and ners with 15 points on 38 shots the Hose Monsters. 
1hc Srninr hmnal caused quirt .. a total that puts Conner in 1 few hassles but, overall, early contention for the tourna­'crything went real well," ment's "Hoosier Award." 
* Bookstore '80 * 
· "llllllenred Simari. Teammates Andy DeFusco, Bill 
! >nc doesn't expect much ex­Cunniff and Jim Skolmutch Simari announced that the ' 11rrnent from early-round each had three points for The first round would end this .llllon but there were a few Doobies while the losers were afternoon and second-round ga1nes thar 11 anaged to draw led by Dave Unterreiner with action would get underwayrc'-p<'ll able:-u owds. One of the seven points on 22 attempts. tomorrow. Bookstore games 
will be played beginning at 4 p.m. today on all three tourna­ment sites: Stepan Courts,
Vehr, Gibbons sidelined 
Lyons Courts and behind the bookstort>. The Observer will run a
during impressive drills 
complete Bookstore Boxscore after every day of tournament 
hy Cmt}?, Chval Michigan State, Alabama and action.
SportJ ll'n'ter Southern Cal on the road. BOOKSTORE NOTES --in one Every spring, head coaches 
of the more bizarre contests in 
".rrurday's d~uble-session are pestered by questions ask­
. recent Bookstore annals, FM 
l'lndun~d the first rasualiries of rng them to assess their recruit­
and the D. J. 's decisioned a 
Ill(' "Pring...second-string tight ing successes or failures, and to 
band of incorrigibles known as 
' 11d Nick Vehr went down with • evaluated the crop' of incoming 
Albergo's African Army 21-6 
.1 '•nnpound finger dislocation freshmen!, which, of course, is 
Saturday afternoon at Stepan.
111 rh<;> morning and tri-captain impossible to do accurately... 
After performing the requisite 
•
!'om Gibbons met a nearly but a year after the fact, Devine 
five bows to Mecca prior to the 
ldC"ntical fate while diving for lauds the Class of 1983 as a 
game, Albergo's Africans took 
;rn interception in the after-superlative one, singling out 
the court outfitted in an assort­
noon ... Vehr, who caught six split end Tony Hunter, halfback 
ment of Hawaiian shirts, sport­
passes for 56 yards and two Phil Carter and guard Tom 
coats, lifepreservers, wmter 
touchdowns last fall as a junior, Thayer on offense, along with 
coats, and hiking boots in a vain 
will miss seven to 10 days of outsidr lineba•.:ker Mark Zav­
attempt to confuse the D.J. 's. 
drills according to head trainer agnin and corner back Dave 
However, an inadvertant game­
(}ene Paszkiet ... Gibbons, a Duerson on defense... Devine 
winning layup by African Greg
two-year starter in the defen-called Duerson "probably the 
Dalessavdro into the wrong
"ive backfield, will be on the best player we've had in the 
basket clinched the win for the 
..,nfelines anywhere between defensive backfield since I've 
D.]. 's. On the bright side,
four days and a week with a been here, including Luther 
Dallessa"'dro's shot did mean 
compound dislocation of the Bradley... Aradley, now a start­that each of the African's Defense! finger. er for the NFL's Detroit Lions is 
scored at least once in their 
a former Irish All-American, 
first-ever Bookstore outing.

and started on two nationalSpring Football '80 championship squads. As Saturday's afternoon ses­
Bookstore's here

"ion was corning to a close, first \tlach Dan Devine was all The minor injuries aside, head 
team flanker Pete Holohan pulled up "lame" when it was
·-rniks after sending his squad time to run ... "My ankle hurts
1 hrough its paces . Satur­
Weather'you like it or not 
,Jav .''\X.'c've anomphshed a really bad, maybe it's broken," ~reat deal so far, lot he told Paszkiet while trying to
a more ;han l had thought we would," keep a straight face, "I don't One of the complaints heard behind the ... aid Dn·ine... ' 'The players think I can 1·m," he claimed._ . bookstore on Saturday concerned the weather. IC"alile rhat we have a tough Paszkiet waived Holohan off the A lot of people thought it was just too cold to 
Frank 

"lhcduk nexr year. and they're field, but shouted after him to play basketball outside. And it was a little wPrkrng hard," he added...the report for treatment th<" follow­chilly, damp, a few clouds in the sky... ....-hcdulc Devine referred to ing morning... " And you better Which made it perfect; for B0okstore 
LaGrotta 
1111 ludes Purdue and Michigan be there--with bells on!" he Basketball, that is. You see, one of the 
ro .~pen t~1e season, along with warned. unwritten rules of this tournament is that you Notre Dame. . . The temperature was 35 shouldn't play when the sun is shining. The degrees. rain and the cold and the ruddles and the "Sweatpants!? Who wears sweatpants to manhole on the right wing o Bookstore Court play Bookstore? '' 9, turn regular men into Ironmen and the No raincoats either although the Butcher obstacles insure that only the best survive. Brothers could have used them in an octafinal 
For instance, when the TILCSII took on the ~arne played last year. It was the longest game Average White Team and Dave Batton took on tn recent tournament history, lasting two hours Bill Paterno, Paterno won the battle but Batton's and 15 minutes, and it was played in a TILCS won the war. They prevailed in an over­thunderstorm that made everyone playing or time,rain-drenched dog-fight to win their second watching the game wonder what the hell they consecutive Bookstore title. were doing playing or watching, or anything 
"Wouldyou get that umbrella outta my face, short of building an ark. please?'' But everyone played and everyone stayed. The weather wasn't much better when "That umbrella! It's in my face again!" 
JeffCarpenter went streaking down the sideline Then there was last year's final game on a fast break and didn't see the ball or the between the Butcher Brothers and the Chumps. backboard pole. He wound up with a pretty The Butchers had lost Dave Huffman to an serious crack in his collarbone, but he finished injury, and the Chumps were without Bill the game; which, by the way, his team lost. Hanzlik because ofsome NCAA idiocy. The two 
''Hey, whatta you expect? This is Book-survivors fought tooth and nail to the last store!!??" ' Chumps bucket that gave captain Tom "Old 
But Carpenter came back the next year to Guy'' Sudkamp his first Bookstore title after lead his team to the title with a 9-for-10 five attempts. Afterwards Sudkamp was asked shooting performance in the semi-final game if the weather, a constant flood of cold, bone­that aborted Dave Batton's fourth TILCS chilling rain, made any difference. squad's bid for~ third straight champio11ship. It "The weather?" he smiled mischievously, was Batton's first Bookstore defeat in over pushing an umbrella out of his face. "The three years. It was cold that day. Jeff Carpenter weather was never better.'' never played a better game of basketball at For Bookstore Basketball, that is. 



'• 





