---------, 
I 
/ 
r , 
Musicviews -.r pf!,ge ·7 
.. ' 

as being ''very premature''.
by Mary Fran Callahan 
''There really is no story. It is aP internal
StaffReporter 

problem," Ellison said. Tom Hamel, ~Student
Due to a!?-anticipated $2000 ~udget cut by 
Union director, explained that Student Union's
Student Unwn, the Sophomore Ltterary Festival 
financial condition has improved due to a larger
has already begun to seek funds from various 
than expected profit on movies and fund raisers
departments to pay authors who were contracted 
last semester Hamel also said that these
to appear last November. 
excessive profits might possibly be used to aid
Though the English Department utilizes the the literary festival if needed.
speakers in its classes, the department has flatly refused to provide any funds, claiming that the The eight authors contracted will definit~ly festival should be self supporting, according to appear and are scheduled to give lectures, and student union festival officials. attend receptions and classes during the festival 
week of March 9-15, according to Ellison. These 
"I don't feel like I'm gettin any support from 
authors include: John Barth, John Cage, E. L.
Student Government as a whole,'' Doug 
Doctorow, Louise Gluck, David Hare, Mario
Krietzberg, festival chairman commented. 
Vargas Llosa, Sam Shepard, and Charles Simic. 
"There's a notion up there (Student Union) that cultural events are not profitable because they Regat dless of whether or not the budget is don't make money." sliced, Krietzberg promised a quality festival. A 
Yet accordipg to Dave Ellison, Cultural Arts particul"r attraction is the appearance of Comission . chairman, budgetary difficulties are playwrigh Dave Hare, who authored Teeth and not yet definite. "I may be in nice financial Smzles the play in _ production and will be shape. I don't know at this point," Ellison said performed while Hare is on campus. The festival last night. He is still in the processof formulating committe has-arranged for Hare to sit in the figures and said he would have actual numbers audience on the production's closingnight. 4fter by Monday. watching his work performed, Hare will'gtve a 
backstage talk to the production company 
According to CAC dfficials,Monday's figures 
might prove that funds for the Isis Gallery will A wide variety of literary talent has been be cut in half and the Jazz Festival will have to accumulated. Of the eight authors, three are 
be slashed. The Fefd Ballet scheduled for novelists, three poets, and two are playwrishts. Barth's The Sot-weed Factor won a Nauonal
appearance tonight has already beep cancelled 
due to monetary problems. Book Award in 1967. Doctorow's Ragtime hit the bestseller list shortly after publication. Llosa' s 
Krietzberg said that Ellison had warned him that 
The Green House was credited as being the most 
a budget cut could arise in the near future. Due 
important contribution to Latin American Litera­
to a financially unsuccesful Midwest Blues 
ture in 1973. Shepard's play Buned Childre­
Festival, the CACno longer has a contingency ceived a Pulitzer Prize. 
fund to draw upon. However, Krietzberg is already considering the The majority of authors will speak in The 
possibility of placing adds in the festival Library Auditorium and Washmgton Hall, 
programs or scheduling a movie to offset his . though all times and locations will be publicized 
anticipated cuts. Ellison labeled such measures at a later date. 
cause for concern.'' The state­(AP) -French radio reported ment, broadcast on Tehran

last night that Iran's 79-year­radio, came after Khomeini's
State ofthe Union old revolutionary leader, Aya­office in Qom, 100 miles southtollah Khomeini, had been ad­
of Tehran, said he would conti­mitted to the cardiology depart­nue foregoing appointmentsment ofReza hospital in Tehran

Carter attacks .Soviets in speach 
until Feb. 9 because of fatiguewith a heart problem. 

and a mild illness. 

The report quoted a Khomeini
Carter said, "The So~iet U­The London Daily Telegraph
nian leaders that the real spokesman in the holy city of
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­
danger to their nation lies to the nion is now attempung to reported Thursday that doctors
Qom, where the ayatollah lives, dent Carter, citing a "grave 
north from Soviet troops consolidate a strategic position had checked Khomeini's heart.
in and gave no further details.
threat" to Middle East oil Afghanistan, and that the un­that poses a grave threat to the Khomeini's doctors said ear­Its Tehran correspondant, Amit
supplies, vowed last night that 
warranted Iranian quarrel with lier yesterday that his "condi­Roy, reported, "A senior politi­any Soviet effort to seize control 
[continued on page 6] cian said to me last night: 'The
us hampers their response to tion is good and there is no
of the Persian Gulf region ''will 
this greater danger.'' imam has had a heart check. 
be repelled by use of any means 
Somtthing very simple.' Kho­necessary." 

meini's office in Qom said that In a niltionally broadcast State he was recovering well from 'a of the Union address to a joint minor ailment. '" 

session of Congress, Carter also' Militants holding Americans announced that he wants to 
Fernandez to lecture today. 
hostage in the U.S. Embassy in 

''begin registra_tion'' of draft­Tehran issued a statement ask­
age youths, but expressed hope 
-. ing for their countrymen to pray
that ''it will not be necessary to ember, 1978. nandez feels his background of for Khomeini' s health and reimpose the draft." by Michael Onu(rak By any standards, Fernandez' financial expertise is a major blaming his illness on pressure
overture political philosophy is conserva­asset His
In an to Islamic Senior Copy Editor to hts candidacy. resulting from disunity among
nations in the vital oil produc­tive. In his campaign literature, thoughts on the economy are Iranians. On Jan. 8, Khomeini 
ing Persian Gulf region, the Benjamin Fernandez, Repu­he calls for a return to the somewhat idealistic: ''Inflation announced he was canceling all President said he hoped ''to "work ethic," favors a "power­is insidious, destroying the
blican candidate for President, public appointments beginning
shape a cooperative security ful defensive postu1;e'' for the purchasing power of the people
will speak this afternoon at 4: 15 Jan. 12. framework that respects differ­p.m. m the Library Auditorium. country, and wants to balance . who least can afford it, the low Also yesterday, Iran's Foreigning values and political beliefs, The lecture is co-sponsered by the federal budget. income folks of our country. An Minister insisted that deposed
yet enhances the indepen­Notre Dame student govern­Belying his ethnic heritage, attack on inflation requires the Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi 
dence, security and prosperity ment and the central committee Fernandez is particularly con­balancing of the Federal bud­had been placed under deten­
of all.'' of the 1980 Notre Dame Mock cerned over communist influ­get, reducing waste in govern­tion Panamanian authorities Declaring that "the state of Convention. ence in the Carribean. "Com­ment, deregulating across the preparing his return to Iran. He 
our union depends on the state Fernandez, who finished ninth munism is festering in the board, vetoing bills which dismissed denials by various 
of the world,'' Carter said the in a student poll of Republican Carribean as evidenced by the would require deficit financing, Panamanians, saying they were 
seizure of American hosta~es in Communist triangle, Cuba Ja­
candidates earlier this week, is and developing a strong energy ' 'false reports. ' ' 
Iran and Soviet intervenuon in maica, and Guyana. And today, program which would minimize
a successful businessman with "Sooner or later the world will 
Afghanistan confront the Unit­Cuba's Fidel Castro is export­
a colorful rags to riches back­the effects on our economy by come to realize that the report
ing Communism into Nicara­
ed States with a broad chal~ ground. Born in a boxcar, policy decisions of the OPEC was right and the ousted shah 
l~nge that must be met in gua, Guatemala, and El Salva­
Fernandez worked his way cartel." was actually under custody,''
cooperation with other nations. dor. The United States is being
through college and eventually Fernandez is the first Presi­Sadegh Ghotbzadeh said in an 
.Although Carter warned Iran surrounded across its soft un­dential candidate to visit Notre
rose to the top of the business interview with the official Pars 
r 
again that ''if the American world. His current aspiration is derbelly by a direct, /ositive Dame, and he will make a news agency carried by Tehran 
r, hostages are harmed, a severe to be the first president of communistic thrust, an Jimmy return visit during the Mock Radio. The broadcast was moni­price will be paid,'' he said he Carter is asleep at the switch.''
Latin-American descent. He be­will try "to persuade the Ira-gan to pursue that goal in Nov-An economist by trade, Fer-[continued on page-4] ! [continued on page 2) 

The first announced presidential candidate to visit Notre Dame, Republican Benjamin Fernandez, will speak today at 
4:15 in the Library Auditorium. 
Khomeini enters hospital for fatigue , heart illness 




Ne"Ws in brief 
Thursday, January 24, 1980-page 2 
New 'Z£aland expels Soviet 
'Order restored'in Afghanistan
.Ambassador over funds 
(AP) Afghanistan's new presi­Outside access to information the Afghan president executed 
WElliNGTON* New Zealand (AP) -New Zealand'sgovern­ment announced the expulston of Soviet Ambassador Vselvolod Sofinsky early this morning for paying Soviet government funds to a small pro-Moscow political party. The Prime Minister told a news conference the expulsion order had no connection with military intervention in Afghanistan. 
Gold prices drop. 
after weeks ofincrease 
NEW YORK (AP) -The stock market staged a sharp rally yesterday, rebounding from Tuesday's setback. Trading was active. The price of gold, which started the week above $800 an ounce, plunged below $600 in early trading in Europe yesterday. But the it attracted a surge of new buying, and recovered to the neighborhood of $695. Yesterday stocks steadied and then began moving up again as the gold mwrket staged its comeback. 
Hundrecf,s pay respects to 
Justice Douglas 
. WASHINGTON (AP) -William A Douglas was buried yesterday, after President and hundreds of others honored the man who served on the Supreme Court a record 36 years. Those who eulogized him invoked what they described as Douglas' two great passions-individual liberties and the environment. "This Land is Your Land," a Woody Guthrie song Douglas cherished from his penniless days traveling with hobos, and "ShallWe Gather by the U.S. army chorus. 
McCartney remains busted in Tokyo jail cell 
. TOKYO (AP) -An expert on J apenese drug law said yesterday former Beatie Paul McCartney ''will never be allowed back inJapan. But before he goes he should stand up in courtand say there is nothing wrong with marijuana. "Hidehire Marui, a Japanese lawyer who specializes in marijuana trials, made the comment as McCartney marked his first week in Japan inside a Tokyo jail od suspicion of narcotics violations. McCartney must remain for further questioning. Marui said ''Normally anyone caught with such a large quantity of marijuana-whether he be Japanese or foreigner-would be,. ailed. But t.his is an unusual case and I think McCartney wil be kicked out of the country.'' 
Weather 
An 80 percent chance of snow today, becoming warmer with highs from 26-30. Cloudy and warmer tonight and tomorrow with a 30 percent chance of light snow .Lows tonight oin the low 20s. Highs tomorrow in th low to mid 30s. 
CatnP-_us_ ____, 
1-3 P m--AR1 ;,HOW, university of illinois art works, ISIS GALLERY. 
6:30pm--MEETING, aisec, UTILE THEATRE 
6:30 pro--LEADERSHIP TRAINING CLASS  campus crusade  
for christ, LEWIS HALL REC ROOM  '  
.  

6:30 pm--MEETING,off counsel OFF,CAMPUS ALCOVE* 
LAFORTUNE ' 
7 pro--LECTURE, ann mason, political ghostwriter, spon­sered by nd-smc speech and drama dept., 232MOREAU 
7pm--MEETING* committee for john connally, 204 O'SHA& 
7:3~ pm--MEETING, rugby team, 2ND FLOOR LA FORTUNE 
9 pm--MEETING, comittee for george bush, LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
9-12 pm--NAZZ, open stage dent said yesterday; "revolu­tionary order'· has 1>een restor-· ed just four weeks after the influx of Soviet troops to put down an anti-communist rebel­lion. But as he spoke a new report from Kabul told of a high­way ambush, possibly by rebels, east of the Afghan capital. 
U.N. Secretary-General Kurt W aldheim flew from India to Pakistan in an effort to ease growing tensio_ns betw~en those two countnes stemmmg indirectly from the Soviet inter­vention in Afghanistan. 
• • . illness 
[continued from page 1] 
tored in London. 
In Panama, a government television station and Panama­nian radio stations said the deposed shah was ''doing what he does every day'' and there were no signs that he was under arrest on the resort island of Contadora, 35 miles southeast of Panama City. 
Panama'sambassador to Washington, Carlos Lopez Guevara, said he was authoriz­ed to "categorically deny" the Iranian statements. Robert Po­wers, public affairs officer at the U.S. Embassy in Panama City, said: ''As far as we know, the shah is not in custody, and thus far all these reports from Tehran are unfounded.'' 
Embassy militants issued a statement calling on their countrymen to pray today for Kliomeini' s health and blamed his illnc:ss o_n pressure resulting from '<i1suntty among Iranians. On]an. 8, Khomeini announc­ed he was canceling all public appointments begii:ming Jan. 
12. . : The State Department dismiss­! ed as "ludicrous"allegations by 
embassy militants that one of the hostages, U.S. Embassy press attache Barry Rosen, was a spy. The militants made the charge Tuesday night, saying Rosen had tried to manipulate Iranian media. 
The Observer 

Nti,ht Editor: Steve Swonk Asst. Night Editors: Rathy Vick, Deirdre Murphy · Copy Editor: Kathy Casey Layout Staff: Mary Silvi News Editor: Mark Rust Editorial Layout: Colleen Sloan Features Layout: Sal Granata Sports Layout: Mark Perry Typists: Beth Huffman, Michelle Kelleher, George Biron, Kim Convey, Paul Selauko EMT: Kathy Festin Proofreader: Mark Rust ND Day Editor: Mike Shields 
. Photographer: Tom Jackman 
Tltt Observer (USPS • 128) Is published Monday tllreugh Frtay II· cept during exam and WICI1IIa ,..... The Observer Is publisllld br 1111 students If Nltrl o... Mil Slid Mary's C....... Slllalcslf.'t' 1 -rllll purchasld "' sa ,., ,.., IS• ,.,
Mmlltlrl frtm The Observer, f'.O. 1111 
Q, Nttr1 b11111, IIIIIIM 4&1. S1C11C1 
elm PIIIIOI pMcl, Nllrl 011111, 111­
IHIIII-.ailil. The Observer Is 1 m••~•r 11 a. 
Aaldltld Prill. All ,.. • dill 
riglrb .. flllrwd. 

about the Afghan war has been severely restricted, and there were no fresh reports yesterday of battle action m the isolated, mountainous land, where an estimated 80,000 Soviet troops are deployed. 
At a news conference yester­day in Kabul, new Afghan leader Babrak Karmal, install­ed in a Soviet-backed coup Dec. 27 that replaced one Marxist regime with another, expressed his ''deep gratitude'' to the Soviet Union "for the timely material and moral assis­tance,'' the Soviet news agency Tass reported from Kabul. 
Reiterating previous Afghan and Soviet claims that the United States and China had been tryi~g to subvert Marxist rule in J-;.,abul, h~ said the Soviet aid "made it possible to frus­trate the sinister plans of the American imperialtsts and the Peking hegemonists," Tass re­ported. 
He also repeated charges that 
-BJJPOB!IR'S IIIII!II'G 
!HUBSDAY at 7:00 in the S'!. IIABY'S OBSIBVIB OIIICB 
RIW RBPOB'!IlBS ABI WILCOMBI!II 
1980 NOTRE DAME MOCK CONVENTION presents Benjam.in Fernandez Republican Presidential Candidate 
He will make_a speech on Thurs., Jan. 24 ~t 4:15 in the Library Auditorium. Free of charge 

MASS 

followed by
supper 
every
FRIDAY at the 
in the coup, HafizuUah Amin, was a CIA agent who had been plotting a purge of Afghan Marxists, Tass said. These charges were· supported by ''irrefutable documents, includ­ing Amin's personal notes," he was quoted as saying. 
''Revolutionary order and le­gality were restored in the country within less than a month" of the Soviet interven­tion, he reportedly said, and "many" rebels had laid down their arms. 
He was quoted as saying efforts had begun to form a "national front" -apparently a coalition of all Afghan factions. 
Rebel sources based in Paki­stan, Afghanistan's southern neighbor, insist fighting con­tinues between the fundamen­talist Moslem rebel tribesmen and Soviet and Afghan army units, especially in the far northeast. It has been virtually impossible to verify the claims of either side. 

~-~--.---, 
The Observer Thursday, January 24, 1980 -page 3· 

Carter suggests possible aid agreement with Iran 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The ated that the taking of hostagesCarter administration hinted violates international law. yesterday thaJ it may be willing But the spokesman said, the 
to discuss U.S. economic and United States and Iran "share military aid to Iran if the some problems that have be­American hostages held in Teh-· come very manifest over the ran are released. last month.'' 
The sugresrion came as the Referring to the Soviet thrust administr2.ti.;:: again delayed into Afghanistan, which bor­an~ounce!llen.t of anticipate_d ders Iran, he said circumstan­
actton to Impose new economic ces in the region have changed santions against the Iranian in the last month and should be government. addressed jointly. 
The overture to Iran, made Asked about U.S. aid to Iran, through the State Department, · the spokesman said, ''I'm nei­is part of an evolving admini­ther ruling it out nor ruling it in. stration strategy designed to I'm suggesting we would like to rally Moslem countries in discuss the possibility of a new 
Southwest Asia and the Middle and more mutually beneficial East against the Soviet Union. relationship.' 
by Pam Degnan Senior StaffReporter 

Four years ago,]ohn Aristotle Phillips, while an undergra­duate student at Princeton Uni­versity created a' 'home-made'' atomic bomb. Lecturing before a large audience in Carroll Hall last night, Phillips emphasized the need for curbing nuclear technology in Third World councries and criticized U.S. energy policies. , 
Phillips began his lecture with an explanation of how he deve­loped an atomic bomb. By buying public official docu­ments for $25 that concentrated on the operations of the Man­batten project, Phillips said the actual creation of the bqmb came quite naturally. 
"I was a physics major of average intelligence. Every­thing I needed to know was contained in those documents. So you see -anyone can make and market their own bomb ­anyone including terrorist or­ganizations, radical govern­ment leaders and underdeve­loped Third World countries. And that in itself is frighten­ing," Phillips said. 
The 23 year old then related an event that increased his belief that Third World countries are becoming more interested in buying nuclear technology to advance their social and econo­mic stance in the world. 
''After my bomb project was made public, I received a phone call from a Pakistani operative who wanted to purchase my design for his country. It was then I fully realized the impor­tance of the bomb and what could happen if it landed in the wrong hand.s,'' Phillips explain­ed. 
Phillips said that within 10 years underdeveloped countries such as Iran, South Africa, and Brazil will have the technology to construct the atomic bomb. 
He said  that because of U.S.  
financed  nuclear power plants  
in  these  countries  that  their  

entrance irito the arms race is inevitable and unavoidable. 
Carter wants 'mutuallv 
.I 

~ 
t:.1;t,JJ.lli:
beneficial relationship ' 
EIH~£Hl' U&J:r(i.U 1.1::El! Spring Breakout to Ft. lauderdale & Daytona \J:tf!..
with Iran 

Take abus to &from Daytona and stay at the Whitehall Inn only $199 or Crive ·n · save mth hotel accomnroaations
One element of the strategy is 
at the iuxurious Whitehalf!m1 
a softemng of U.S. pressures in 
only $99 Iran, where some 50 Amencans 
ur Drive ·n' save to Ft. Lauderdale-and
were seized by Islamic militants 
Stay at the Lauderdale Biltmore
Nov. 4 in a takeover of the U.S. 
only $109 Embass !r. ,;,_:•ran. 
facn :;iu ii•(,:u·"<:;,. The mi.litants holding the hos­
~ 6 days/5 nights at the beautiful Lauderdal Biltmore in Ft. Lauderdal or at the Whitehall Inn in Daytona
tages have demanded that the 
0 both are ocean front hotels
United States arrange the re­
r_-: Parties and Activities turn of the deposed Shah 
C~ Optional extra nights of lodging 
0 Optional Disney World side trip 
D Optional Kennt:dy Space Center Tour 
Mohammad Reza Pahlavi to 
Iran to face trial, and presuma­
0 Optional Matamoros trip
bly execution. The shah, de­posed a year ago, is now in Panama. 
President Carter signaled the new approach toward Iran on Monday in a written State of the Union message to Congress. He said the United States has "no basic quarrel" with the regime of revolutionary leader Ayatol­lah Ruhollah Khomeini and . is prepared to establish ''a new and mutually beneficial rela­tionship" with Iran. 
Carter stressed, at the same time, that the hostages must be released first. The point was underlined Wednesday by Hod­ding Carter, the State Depart­ment spokesman, as he reiter-
The NOTRE DAME REPUBLICAN Mock Convention 
I Holds its 
I PUBLIC HEARINGS 
!Topic Date Time Place 
i -­
International Affairs 
International Trade ]an 24 National Defense Jan 28 Third World Policy Jan 29 China and Southeast Asia Jan 29 Middle East Policy Jan 30 Soviet Policy Jan 31 Developed and Western Feb 4 World Policy 
Domestic Affairs 
Economy--Taxation, Inflativn, .Tan 27 
Unemployment 
Energy and Environment ] an 28 Health, Education, Welfare ] an 29 Civil Liberties ] an 30 Urban Policies ] an 30 ·Science and Technology Feb 4 
.Let your opinions become a part 
7 p.m.  116 O'Shag  
7 p.m.  116 O'Shag  
-?p.m.  116 O'Shag  
7 p.m.  117 O'Shag  
7 p.m.  116 O'Shag  
7 p.m.  '16 O'Shag  
7 p.m.  17 O'Shag  
1:30 p.m.  116 O'Shag  
7 p.m.  117 O'Shag  
7 p.m.  118 O'Shag  
7:30p.m  117 O'Shag  
7 p.m.  118 O'Shag  
7 p.m.  116 O'Shag  

Q~o~~ 

Nuclear Technology 
Phillips lectures atSl\1C 
'·In the 60's scientists expres­sed misgivings about develop~ ing the bomb. Many dropped out of the "peaceful" atom power move but unforu~nate~y it was roo late because btg, btg money was involved. American companies like Westinghouse and General Electric had wrap­ped up too much money In power plants overseas. They did not realize that nuclear technology was clearly inal?pro­priate for these countnes, '' Phillips said. 
On the subject of radioactive wastes and their harmful ef­tens on mankind, the Princeton graduate explained that one pound of plutonium -a highly tethal substance -if spread across the entire U.S. in the form of dust would destroy every living being. 
''Radioactive wastes have a half-life of 2400 years. Not only wi11 they be a constant threat in our lifetime . but for many generations to come. I'm upset over nuclear energy, as you should be. No one has the right ­
[continued on page 9] 

Bob's Western Sh~ Western Hats are 'in" and we . • have them in stock for you. Take ·S· 31 South to Lakeville. Turn East' at the Blinker on Pierce Rd. ~ mile Open 7 days 10 am to 7 pm  
KEENAN HALL presents 'Fred Walker in concert! ~~ll About Worship and Laughter'' 7:30 pm Sunday Keenan ..Chapel Donations accepted  

ofthe STUDENT PLATFORM R·M·C· Platform Committee 


Thursday, January 24, 1980 -page 4 
The Observer 

Junior Parents' Weekend paylllents due totnorrow 
Junior Parents' Weekend will be held the weekend of Feb. 22-24. Notice and information on the event was sent to parents prior to Thanksgiving break.. Parents should return thetr packets with the payment no later that tomorrow. Due to an incomplete computer listing, the names of approximately 50-75 juniors were left off. Students whose parents have not received a pa..:ket or have lost it may pick one up in the Student activiries Office, La Fortune this week. All replies must be returned to the Student 
Activities Office by noon to­morrow. The itinerary for the weekend is scheduled as follows: 
/ 
. Friday, Feb. 22: Registra­non--LaForrune 2-8 p.m.; Cock­tail Dance--9 p.m. 
. Saturday, Feb. 23: Registra­uo~--La~ortune 9-1 p.m.; Col­legtate Workshops--10:30 a.m.; Junior Class Mass--6:30 p.m.; President's Dinner--ACC 8 
p. ~-; Receptions in Dormi­tones--10:30 p.m. 
Sunday, Feb. 24: Closing Breakfast--ACe 9:30 a.m. 
Local paperboy Jerry Wray delivers his goods on bicycle despite the icy sidewalks.(photo by Tom Jackson) 


FLY FROM SOUTH BEND TO FORT LAUDERDALE ONLY $189 
Complete package as low as $298 
Complete package includes round trip non-stop jet fare 1 and oceanfront hotel accomodations! 
! 1 I  also available National Car Rentals DEPARTS .MARCH 29  
RETURNS APR1·  :;  
for reservation inforrr  
call Shaz 232-68~ or call toll-free 1-800-b-c. _···  
arrangements by Student Sun I':-:.y_·  

! 

Soviets banish dissident leader 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Soviet government newspaper yes­terday accused disstdent leader Andrei D. Sakharov of having "blurted out" state secrets to Westerners and said he had been banished from Moscow for reasons of national security. 
Izvestia's toughly worded denunciation of Sakharov was the fullest authoritative expla­nation of the government's action against the Nobel Peace Prize winner, who was picked up by police Tuesday, stripped of his state honors; and exiled from Moscow. 
Before flying off, Sakharov told family members he and his wife, Yelena Bonner, were be­ing sent to Gorky, 2 50 miles east of here, and industrial center closed to foreign repor­ters. Friends and relatives said 
• • • Speech 
[contmued from page 1] 
Republican Convention to be held in Stepan Center beginn­ing March 3. The only other Republican candidate firmly · committed ro the Mock Conven­tion is perennial Presidential candidate Harold Stassen. 
Besides today's lecture, Fer­nandez will also meet 'Vith Universit\' President Fr. Theo­dore He~burgh, tape a local television show, and hold a press conference at the Morris inn. 
., \. : ri. .t......, .l. .c. ~ ~ ...~ .....\..,.>".a..t 
=~ 
....... ,..... 
Wednesday they had received no new word from Sakharov, and they made a public demand for official confirmation of his whereabouts. 
Meanwhile, international protests over the punishment of the human rights activist mounted. 
Besides· condemnations from Western governments, the Communist parties of France, Spain and Italy announced their opposition. Commumst Po­land's government media sounded a lone note of support for the Kremlin. 
The president of the French National Assembly, Jacques Chaban-Delmas, cut short a visit to Moscow in protest. 
The 53-year-old Sakharov, a nuclear physicist and winner of the 1975 r\obel Peace Prize, had become the strongest voice of dissent in the Soviet Union in recent years, meeting fre­quently with American and other Western journalists to publicize alleged human rights violations. 
The lengthy Izvestia article came close to calling him a traitor. It said he had ''stepped onto the path of direct betrayal of the interests of our mother­land,'' and claimed in a later passage he had ''overstepped the b,~unds of the law. ·' 
At another point, the article said that in meeting with foreigners, Sakharov, a key developer of the Soviet Union's hydrogen bomb, had often "blurted out things that any government guards as an im­portant 'secret." 
An announcement Tuesday 
Notre D31lle Karate Club 
practices Tuesday and 
~----~--­
Thursday 6-Bpm in -~ 
.. ..
"' 
said only that Sakharov's public honors had been taken from him because of his ''subversive work.'' But the Izvestia com­mentary Wednesday also con­firmed that'· competent organs'' had expelled him from Moscow, though it did not say where he was sent. 
''These measures were es­sential for reasons including the fact that he began to be used a s a channel for intelligence ser­vices of m~perialist powers to worm out tmportant state se­
crets  of  the  Soviet  Union,"  
Izvestia said.  
'It  remains  unclear whether  

Soviet authorities plan to put Sakharov on trial or will consi­der the summary banishment and stripping of honors to be sufficient punishment. Two years ago another leading dis­sident, Anatoly Shcharansky, was tried and convicted of treasonable espionage as a result of his contacts wirh Westerners. 
NDPress 
publishes novella 
The Notre Dame Press has published a second work of fiction by Mircea Eliade, noted historian of religions. The Old lvfan and the Bureaucrats, a novella ranked among the best of Eliade's creative works, was translated from Rumanian by Marv Park Stevenson. 
Born in Bucharest in 1907, Eliade grew up in Rumania between the world wars. Since 1957, he has taught at the University of Chicago Divinity School. • The author's studies in history of religions are well known in English, bur little of his fiction has been translated. His epic novel, The Forbidden Forest, was published by the Notre Dame Press in 1978. It was the first of his novels to be published in English. 
The newly translated novella ~·~.:; otiginallv pub!:c::~ed in Rt:mania in b-. 1nd , 4er the tue Pe Strada ih mtu!ea..)a f":Jn J!:il;tu!easa Street). ·


j 


-~----, 

... 

Thursday, January 24, 1980 -
Editoti s page 5 
Dealing with the confusion 
Problems in our own backyard 
A85ai/IEJ,.YNQf. N'.HF!lJN

GO'It7/WOR 8/UJ/N, &Q >ttl 
5fWlPev£1( BE~aJT.

7HINI<. PRCSIPCNT ~ 
5Pee/AUY IN 7H& !14C&

tvA~ R/6HT 70 RIJL£ fJIT 
OF A seR!OfJS 7lll?e4T 70

A MI/.ITAI<Y 5TRIKE TO 
7H& V/.48/lfTYCF STM-­

~7H&H05T~ 
SHIP AMI!RJCA.

IN TtHRM? 
/ 

P.O. Box Q 
Social justice and Notre Dame 
Dear Editor: 
The title ofBernard Norling's column in The Observer Oan. 18, 1980), "The Poverty of Liberalism," led me to believe that what would follow would be in the same vein as a book of the same title by the radical political philosopher, Robert Paul Wolff. Unhappily this was not the case. In his book, Wolff makes a strong critique of liberalism on the grounds of its moral poverty. As I read Peter Walshe's analysis of Fr. Hes­burgh's position on the board of the Chase Manhatten Bank, I understood him to be arguing similarly '·-Fr. Hesburgh has placed himself squarely in the liberal camp and does not challenge rhe immoral presup­positions undergirding institu­tions like the Chase. Clearly Walshe is no liberal (I presume he would prefer radical). Fr. Hesburgh ts the liberal. I find similar obfuscation of language runs throughout Prof. Norling's polemic. 
Prof. Norling appears to sub­scribe to a stmpltstic weltan­schauung which resolves itself at the end into that old red baiting rhetorical question: "On which side are they (libe­rals) in the ceaseless strugg)e of the Free World to escapt: the toils ofcummunist thralldom?'' His chutzpah is embarassing. In logic this is called the fallacy of the false dilemma. Why must we choose between Rus­sian imperialism and American imperialism? By posing the 
·question thus, indeed by seeing the world in such manachaean terms--good versus evil--Prof. Norling finds himself having to defend the 'small crimes' of 'friends' such as the Shah of Iran and Pinochet of Chile, while apartheid and the Sharp­ville massacre are referred to as 
'bromides.' Surely such a 
position  is  at  the  very  least  
awkward  and,  I  think,  also  
unnecessary.  

I was dismayed by the ve­hemence Prof. Norling showed in his attack on Prcf. Walshe and liberals. Much is lost in demeaning one's partner in political discourse ro a state where one can ignore the questions he puts forth. And similarly, the tone of Prof. Norling's article makes it equal­ly difficult to hear the questions he would put before us. The bludgeon ts not a reasonable tool for discourse and certainly not for public discourse. 
Nothing can be resolved and much is obscured at this level, so I suggest we return to the question as originally posed by Prof. Walshe: How may the University best serve the ends of social justice; specifically does Fr. Hesburgh's position on the board at the Chase Manharren further or hinder that goal? 
Paul Lauer 
11/HATSORT OF REACTKJN TIM& #t(,(J£3 
7AtKIN6 II~, GOVCI?IJ(R~ 
I 

Prof. Bernard Norling's edi­torial column ''The Poverty of Liberalism,'' in The Observer of Jan. 18 (in response to my column ''The Chase Manhattan 
Bank and Notre Dame," Dec. 4, 1979) has performed a useful servtce for the Notre Dame ~ommumty. It has brought out tnto _the opel! a set of precon­cepno!ls whiCh can now. be ex~mtned · preconceptiOns wh~ch I fi~d dangerous to the pohry of thts country and to ~he fu_ture of the global community. ~ts col~mn _reveals. an agr~~­..'ave nanonaltsm whtch uncrm­cally accepts th<; structures.and 
• propagan?a of tts o~n sooety. ~ow .cunous to dtscover an htston_an ~o app~r~ntly _unable to mam~am a crmcal dt~tance from whtch to evaluate hts own ~imes .. The result is a bullying mvecttve and several confu­sions. Let me try to deal with a few of them. 
1. I am not a liberal. Rat~e~, I am. trytng to b~ a Chnsuan radtcal, attemprmg, however feebly, to understand the mean-
i~g. of a b.i~lical, prophetic vtston. In_pohn~a~ terms I am a democratic soctaltst. 
2. We are told by Professor Norling that it is "the business of governments everywhere to defend the interests of their nations and nationals, be the latter bankers or some others.'' He roo easily equates business interests with the wider inter­esrs of the American people. In reality, the short sighted and profit-obsessed in·dividualism 
. of many transnational corpora­tions may be doing more than 
1 anything else to endanger this country's long run access to third world resources. 
Professor Norling should also avoid the oversimplification that governments represent en­tire nations. In many of their acrivities, governments repre­sent narrow' privileged elites ­be they the party and bureau­cratic elites of the U.S.S.R. or the capitalist el-ites of the 
U.S.A. Professor Norling ex­periences no difficulty in under­standing that Eastern bloc countries are controlled by Communist Party elites which are often manip4lated by the 
U.S.S.R. Yet he balks at any suggestion that the U.S.A. has done its level best to maintain co-operative dictatorial elites in power in countries around the globe. 
.

3. Of course the thtrd world needs capita!, but to assume that capital accumulation is simply a matter of importing funds from western or eastern bloc countries is to ignore the core process whereby third world countries generate their own domestic capital. There is plenry of evidence that western capital investment, in its politi­cal and economic impact, is prone to establishing patterns 
' of dependency in third world areas. This dependency syn­drome can severely limit the generation of local capital and maintain economic and political structures which serve the wealthiest ten percent of socie­ty, at best sustain the next 40 percent, and literally impover­Ish the lower SO percent. This pattern ofdependency has been consistently condemned in the social reaching of the Catholic Church. 
4. 
Professor Norling is upset by my charge that ''many (third world) countries have had to endure the habitual manipultt­tion of their politics by the U.S." Alas, the evidence for this is in. U.S. foreign policy has operated our of a cold war mindset since World War II, a mindset that always manages to underestimate the desire of local nationalist organizations for independence from great powers, whether they be Wash­ington, Moscow, or Peking. Our government and our corporate leaders are very uncomfortable when third world populist movements seek to control their nations' resources and some­times succeed, for example in Iran, Nicaragua, Tanzania, In­dia, Cuba, and (if only for a brief period) in Chile. 

5. 
Professor Norling wonders why I do not criticize the ''bloody regimes that are hostile to us." I have attacked right and left wmg1dictatorships in public on many occasions. My point was not to undertake a survey of .world injustice. Rather, my column started at home, with Notre Dame, the U.S.A. and the western alliance. We have a prior responsibility for justice in our own society and, I repeat, Matthew 7: 5-6 is a useful 


v 

starting point. 
6. There is a disturbing lack of social analysis in Professor Norling's editorial column. One example is his argument that western corporations pay high­er wages to third world nation· als than they would otherwise have earned. Another is his reference to "bromides about apartheid and the Sharpville massacre" (a mere 69 killed). In neither case is there even the beginnings of an understanding 
•Jf structural injustice. Western capitalist investment, with its capital intensive and export­onenred focus, often perpetu­ates or increases horrendous infant mortality. rates and con­tributes to endemic malnutri­tion. Higher pay to a small wh ire collar or labor elite is poor recompense for the neglect in failing to provide basic necessi­ties for the great majority. Likewise, the massacre at Sharpville must be seen in a wider context-the ugly story of South African history involving the systematic exploitation of black labor, harsh political re­pression and a shameful record of maltreating political priso­ners (see Amnesty Internation­al reports). 
7. Finally, I am asked to declare on which side I stand: that of the "free world" or "communist thraldom." This uncivil piece of right wing politiking, compounded by Pro­fessor Norling's hectoring tone, is indicative of a very worrying mindset which is reasserting itself throughout the U.S.A. -a 
Peter Walshe 
mindset which could lead down the road to a resurgence of McCarthyism. 
So, to out campus ·inquisitor, I would reply that I. am for the great democratic tr;idition of t'1e "free world" which was s :ruggled for over t~t Genturies by those who were prepare~ to G uestion the establtshed elttes uf their rimes. This tradition is dynamic, not static and has co be renewed .tnd .someumes reestablished in the teeth of powerful monied elites who would subvert it. United· States 
... 
democracy has not been threat­ened by the left. One of the more inspiring aspects of the 20th century American history is the democratic commitment and the love of country evinced by socialists like Norman Tho­mas. It is the right wing in this country which has taken us perilously close to the ·subver­sion of democracy. 
The virus of intolerance spreads quickly; even Truman's Auorney General, Tom Clark, was not immune. In an address to the Cathedral Club of Brook­lyn in 1948 he expressed the following: ''Those who do not believe in the ideology of the United States shall not be allowed ro stay in the United States." 
So, please, no more loyalty oaths, Professor Norling. I am as critical as are you of the deplorable absence of democra­cy in places like the U.S.S.R. Our difference lies in the fact rhat I perceive a few problems in our own back-yard. 

administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers
The news is r~ported as accurately and
-TheObserver_ 
as objectively a~ possible. Editorials Edztor-in-chief ... ....,Rosemary Mills Sports Edrtor .................. Mark Perry represe~t t~e optmon of a majority of Managzng Edztor.......... Diane Wilson Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly &x Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Ednonal Board. Commentaries Editon'al Editor.............. Ann Gales Photo Edttor .............. Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor........, M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executrve News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager....... .Steve Odland n~spaper published by the students able to all members of the community, ·News Edrtor .................... Mark Rust ProductiOn Manager .... John McGrath of the University of Notre Dame du lac an~ . the free expression of varying News Editor ................ .Mike Shields Adverltsing Manager ... : ..... Bob Rudy and Saint Mary's College. It does not opmtons on campus, through letters, is , SMC News Etlitor........ Margie Brassil· Controller............... ...Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. Circulation Manager......Greg Hedges 
.. 


-....-----~--------­
If"' '•' ', 

intention to send Congress legislative and budget propo­sals that will be aimed at reviving the moribund Selective Service System, which once ran the draft. 
Although he said he is certain that the current all-volunteer armed forces can handle the nation's defense needs, he said he would send legislation and budget proposals to Congress to revitalize the Selective Ser­vice System "so that we can begin registration and then

, 
meet future mobilization needs rapidly if they arise.'' 
All branches of the U.S. military fell short of recruit­ment goals during the past year for the first time since the draft ended in 1973. But Pentagon officials say the Defense De­partment sent no recommenda­t!on for the renewal of registra­tiOn. 
In the past, the White House has said Caner has authority to institute a draft unilaterally. Earlier this month, the Selec­tive Service System estimated it would cost from $16 million to $47 million a year to reinstate draft registration. 
Although Carter did not men­tion regtstering women for the 

Ifyou're about to ·graduate with 
an engineering or computer science 
degree, we'd like to talk to you about 
your future. 
Will it be in commercial jetliners? We're building_!wo new planes-the 767 and 757. While the orders for 727s. 737s and 747s keep coming from all over the world. 
Perhaps you'd like to get into the aerospace field, where we have more projects going than you can shake a calculator at. 
Or maybe you'll help us provide computer services to over 2, 000 clients, including government, private industry, commercial air­planes and aerospace. 
Whatever path you take at 


Thursday, January 24, 1980 -page 6 

althou~h. retn.evin.g clothe~ from St. Michael's Laundry is not usually conszdsered an upliftzng expenence, Bnan Baxley appears to be enjoying it. fphoto by jhon Macor] 
• • . Carter 

[continued from page I) steady nerves and resolute and stability.'' action," he called for "collec­In -a key declaration, the 
free movement of Middle East president ;;aid:
tive efforts to meet this new oil. " threat'' by all nations ''who rely ''Any attempt by any outside Asserting that the situation on oil from the Middle East and force to gain control of the 
"demands care(ul thought, Persian Gulf region will be
are concerned with global peace 

regarded as an assault on the vital interests of the United States. It will be repelled by use of any means necessary, includ­ing military force. 

In that regard, Carter renewed pledges to bolster U.S. military strength by announcing his 
' ~ 
r 
t 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
,r 
' 
The Observer 
-RIVER CllY RECORDS LILI
...... .• 
COLLECTOR'S SHOW AND SATE 
U.S. 31 North store only thousands and thousands of cut-outs. 
oldies, budget lp's, special imports and 
hard-to-find albums 
ooster sale-a few of the huge 4X4 posters 
will be sold to start the semester otf tyl
· 1n s e 
Steve Dahl's "Ayatollah" 45 is available 
listen to the River Citv ads on wlup-fm this· 
weekeru:Land_visit our booth at the Loop­.t:est: Feb. 2&3_at the Amphitheater in 
5~~2'!rs~~~~~. 277-4242 chicago · 3 M1les North of Cam 

Classifieds 
Boeing, you'll enjoy living in Seattle -one of America's most beautiful cities. 

Boeing will be here within the next two weeks. So sign up for your interview today in the Placement Office. 
Then we can tell you in person about all the opportunities you'll have to grow with Boeing. 
If this time is inconvenient for you, just write us: The Boeing .. Company, P.O. Box 3707-VPM, Seattle, WA 98124. 
An equal opporturuty employer. 
BOEING 
GETTING PEOPLE TOGETHER 
~ '•'·""''"·~· -· ·"··~ ... ·.-;_ ... ~-~--~. 
. 

, 1 r · .·"" • ;: .. , .._ "-~-~ -~--·--~il. .• J.·.'l"..t-·r.·t :.'.i.·n:•."i·-... -.t~~-1.1 \l-....·,:1·1.. :•.-"..'ft,<"!'._'i.>-...L
t ..... 
draft, less than a year ago he said that it registration became necessary "it would probably be inevitable we would register both" men and women. 
Promising to ''further strengthen political and milita-· ry ties with other nations'' around the Persian Gulf, Carter said: "We believe that there are no irreconcilable differen­ces between us and any Islamic people. We respect the faith of Islam, and are ready to cooper­ate with all Moslem countries.'' 
Noting that ''the Moslem world is especially and justifia­bly outraged" by Soviet actions in Afghanistan, Carter added: ''Verbal condemnation is not· enough. The Soviet Union must .. pay a concrete price for their aggression . . . The Soviet Umon must realize that its• decision to use military force in Afghanistan will be costly to every political and ecpnomic relationship it values.'' 


,
• 

• 
Features 
Thursday, January 24, 1980-page 7 
l\1usicviews 
0 • 0 0 0 04 

o 0 D 0 D 0 
Phoenix 
Dan Fogelberg 
(Epic) 
Phoenix , Dan Fogelberg's newest album is a disappointment. Now before Fogeibergphil~~-~t:orch my office, let •uc explam-Dan Hogel­berg's music is not folk, not rock, not wave-Fogelberg is Fogelberg. From such an innovative man I would hope to see continued diversity and growth in his art. 
With Phoenix, however, I would have to say that I cannot for the moment consider Fogelberg an artist. but rather a performer. He's playing it safe on this album. There is minimal musical innovation. The phrasing is predictable, the percus­sion bland, the chord progressions are a bit too familiar. 
The cliches which riddle the album 
certianly detract from the total exper­
ience of the album for any one who 
believes in Fogelberg's talent as an 
artist, but for hsrenersthereare some 
very impressive performances on the 
album. The sax on "Heart Hotels" is 
nothing short of soulful-thank you 
Tom Scott. And a friend giving Dan 
some "moosical" help-Joe Walsh-in . 
"Face the Fire" adds a whole "nuther' 
dimension'' to Fogelberg's love affair 
with guitar. I didn't know that Dan 
had it in him . · 
To be fair, I must admit that 
"Longer" and "Tullamore Dew" the 
instrumental on th album, are not 
typical Fogelberg. These two pieces 
evince some progress, butthis bunch 
of songs remains generally unre­
markable. 
The most attractive thing about the 
album for me is that it isn't crammed 
with lovesongs. Listening to the top 
selling music in this country today, 
an outside observer would judgeus to 
be a very shallow people, obsessed 
with onet h i n g :love (or two things 
love and sex It you don't believe they 
have anything to do with each other). 
Fogelberg, does not limit himself 
thematically to these concerns. Cer­
tainly he has written some truly 
beautiful love-found/love-lost songs, 
but he also explores other facts of 
life. 
"Along the Road" is particularly 
probing: 
Along the road Your steps may stumble Your thoughts may start to cry But throuf!h it all a heart heldhumble j 
Like his tJaming indictment of greed in "Power of Gold" from Twin Sons of Different Mothers, The album which was made with Tim Weisberg, Fogelberg addresses issues that are so pervasive in our society that we rend to become dulled to their critical 
nature-"Face the Fire" is about the 
d~~~er of nuclear power, and "Phoe­
nix tells us of the danger of defining 
oneselfin terms of a relationship with 
another person. 

I_find the lyrics to be the best part of 
thrs album, together with some 
strides forward m style for Fogel­
berg's guitar, but throwing in some 
Eagle's and Jacks~n Browne glosses 
do not constitute mnovation. Musi-. 
cally, the album is enjoyable, but I do 
not find Phoenix very exciting. 
K. Connelly 

] elfers on· Stars hip 
Freedom At Point Zero (Grunt) 
When Grace Slick left the Stsrship 
last year, I felt a little letdown. The 
Starship had never been one of my 
favorites, but I rarely had any com­
plaint with their music. I wondered 
whethered they would be the same, 
or. be able to survive without her. Yet 
I was mildly surprised; their was no 
gaping hole left where Grace Slick 
had been. Instead, the group seems 
to have matured a bit, and they seem 
to be more comfortable with their 
~usic. It m~ke~ one wonder just how 
brg a contnbuuon Grace Slick really 
did make. 

When I first encountered this al­
bum, I was not even aware of it. My 
first exposure was hearing the ex­
tremely popular hit "jane" on the 
ra~i~. My first impression was "Hey, 
this rs. P~?bably the best thing Toto 
eyer,drd! Now don't get me wrong; I 
drdn t know anything about Toto's 
music, but it sure sounded like the 
rest of the _oth('.. stuff that they dump 
on the radw <l' ·aves. When I found 
out that it rea . was the Starship, I 
was surprised, yet, it made me kind 
of curious about what else might be 
on this new album. 

!he next track I • heard was equally 
drsappoitning. "Rock Music" is the 
kind ofsong you expect to find on the 
first album of some bar band that 
eventually ends up going nowhere. I 
was really ready to give my friend 
Kl)z as much grief as possible about 
the group thathe had preached to me 
about for years. Yet, I wanted one 
more nail for the coffin; two songs do 
not an entire album make. 
But I was too greedy. When I went 
back for that third strike, I was the 
loser. What I heard next (although· 
the title then) was ''Things to Come'' 
Here was all the power I was used to 
from the Starship. I was reminded of 
Dragon Fly, and the more powerful -­
cuts from RedOctopus. Although this' 
made me very happy, it didn' r give 
me what I needed to seal my case. I 
had decided to look a little farther to 
find out whether I had come across a 
fluke 

Upon returning to school, I got ahold of the album as quickly as possible. Avoiding what I had already heard, I aimed the needle at the title track. I figured that if they had enough guts to name the album for this song, it would give me a good indication of what was going on. Another step forward Starship, ano­ther leap backward for my argument. I actually liked the ride song, and believe me, that is a rarity these days. 
So I went ahead and played the whole album. True to what I had learned previously, the album to have a double identity. I came across other songs I liked: ''Girl With the Hungry Eyes" has it all. Fine g~itar, good harmony, and a subtle ht~t that the group enjoyed playing thts song, too, although the intra drags ~nd it takes the group a while to get mto the song. 
Overall, the albums strong points outweigh the weak ones; but make sure you listen before you buy-you can't always tell an album by its cover (or its AM hits). 
Michael A. Korbel 
0 0 0 0 
Emerson, Lake and Palmer 
In Concert (Atlantic) 

Many people believe the No. Nukes 
album to be the "live album of the 
year'', but I believe they are grossly 
mistaken. Even with the great assem­
bly of musicians that are on the 
album, they cannot top the 63 
excellent musicians that play on the 
Emerson, Lake & Palmer In Concert 
album. This album was recorded with 
Keith, Greg and Carl backed by a 60 
piece orchestra. 
The recordsing is tram therir 1977 
American and Canacian tours, before 
they had to drop the orchestration, 
then you probably know most of the 
observations I am going to make. But 
if you saw the triuo without the 
addition,then you will realize what 
you were really missing after you 
listen to this album. 
I was privelidged enough to get my 
hands on a copy of a promotional live 
album from WMMS in Cleveland that 
is unreleased and does not contain 
the orchestra. I expected the album 
to be much the same, but I was quite 
pleasantly surprised at the added 
depth the orchestra put into ''C'est 
La Vie'', the forcefulness added to 
the"Enemy God", and the enhanced 
variety to"Pictures at an Exhibi­
tion.'' 

The concert opens with a "Fanfare" 
that leads into "The Peter Gunn 
Theme,"a good example of a theme 
and variation on the theme of the old 
detective show, The song is very tight 
and quite impressive as an opening. 
The group runs immediately into 
"Tiger In a Spotlight" from Works 
Vol. II. This cut shows the trio as the 
super group they once were, while 
the orchestra remains dormant for 
the piece. 

Moving along, without letting the 
crowd interupt the pace, the group 
follows with "C'est La Vie", Lake's 
hit from Works Vol. I. The piece is 
performed well and is exceptionally 
clear, but it still does not match the 
studio version. Carl Palmer's "Ene­
my God" follows. This song is 
marked by solid rapid drumming by 
Palmer and the unmatched key­
boards of Keith Emerson. Keith 
shows his quickness as well as his 
accuracy, and ability to utilize his 
entire keyboard in a short mood 
piece. The song is an excellent 
example of why these two musicians 
monopolized the Playboy Music Poll 
for years as the best drummer ar~d 
keyboardi~t. They each held the 
number one spot until recently dis­
placed by Mic Fleetwood and Billy 
Joel ·.(what a joke!) Billy]oel com­
pared to Keith Emerson is like saying 
I'm as good as Rick Wakeman, or 
Patrick Moraz, and I had my first 
piano lesson Monday, and I can play 
"Mary Had a Little Lamb" perfectly 
--most of 'the time. 
For contrast, the group the throws 
in an oldie from their first album, Knife's Edge My first impression or Luc song was not that goo~ because ofLake's vocals. He can't sing a song like he used to. His timing is off and he does not hit the low notes. However, the full orchestra is in swing, taking much of the preesure off Emmerson, and really filling out 
the song. 

I have a feeling this song is on the 
album to show how the group has 
matured-as contrast. This ts the way 
the group intended the song when it 
was written. But Em~rson, raking the lesson he·· learned from The Nice (his 
previous group), that the world was 
not ready for this cross berw en rock 
and classical music, which is some­
times called a ''bastardization o 
classical music", had ababdoned the 
original idea. But now we have 
the piece the way it was intended! 
Emerson shows his total versatility 
in his Piano Concerto No.1 ,that starts 
the next side. The First Movement is 
played in its entirety and the cut is 
totally acoustical. Keith, in his tails, 
is perched at the grand piano. 
The final peice on the album is from 
a rather unknown album, Pictures at 
an Exhibition. Originally written by 
the Russian composer Mussorgsky, 
and is considered a classic. EL&P 
recorded this on M::trch 26 1971 live 
but it was not released u~til a yea; 
later. EL&P are leaving us where 
they began, with a classic trans­
formed by a classical group. 
I've heard the original score played 
by the Cleveland Orchestra EL&P's 
first rendition, and now ~he cross 
between the two. This one is far 
superior, showing the growth and 
ren_ewed understanding of music by 
Kerth Emerson. The song captures 
all the images that Mussorgsky 
portrayed in his score, but the sharp 
contrast between the electronic and 
t~e orchestra maskes the song more 
vrabl~. The contrast is built by each 
workmg both at seperate times and 
together. It is an excellent modern 
interpretation of a classic. 
The only real disappointment came when the album was over. They did nor even play "Fanfare for the Common Man" nor "Pirates." But combined with their previously re­leased live triple album you have an excellent live anthology 'of THE super group of the seventies. That prev­wusly released album is... 
Welcome Back my Friends to the Show that Never Ends.... 
Mike Bigely 
••~~-~--G04;..~o~•:•::~o~..aa~..~ 
Deguello 
Z*Z*TOP 
(Warner Bros) 
The wait is over and thank-you. After a three year absence Z Z Top has finalfy released a new studio album, Deguelo, and its a killer. 
One of the most obvious cha·nges m 
the band since their World Wide 
Texas Tour is the addition of ''Lone 
Wolf Horns",. With Gibbons, Hill, 
and Beard overdubing their own 
horns, a new dimension is added ri 
this three man powerhouse. Z Z Top 
shows aloy nof variety on Deguello, 
going from Isaac .Hayes' ''I Thank 
You'' to an intense cover version of 
Elmore James' "Dust My Broom". 
While thes two covers are two of the 
best tracks on the album, the trio 
comes up with some songwriring 
gems of their own. "She Loves Mr Automobile" and"Hi Fi Mama" lead the list as the two rowdiest numbers on the album. With apologies to American Bandstand, you'll ltke th e beat and boogie to it ')note that when I say boogie I use the word in the originalsense ala Cuck Berry, and nor in the dread BoogieOobie disco scene). 
Give De'guello a listen and fun with it, its what the album was meant for. The blues influencethat was always there is more pronounced than on Tres Hombres. If you ever liked Z Z Top, this album will probably renew your interest as it did mine. There's a. need for fun music that's not weird and unfortunately there hasn't been alot lately. Thank God for Z Z Top, Texas, The blues, and long live Rock and Roll. 
. Mick Mancuso 


--------------------------------------------~-­


-

• 
Thursday, January 24, 1980 -page 8
The Observer 
ND/SMC Students return after 
D.C. anti-abortiondemonstration 
by Colleen Short 

Approximately 45 students returned from Washtugton yes­terday after an anti-abortion demonstration held Tuesday. The trip was sponsored by the ND/SMC Right to Life Organ­ization (RLO). 
In Washington, students met with dose to 100,000 other pro-lifers outside the White House to listen to several speakers address the abortion issue. At noon the group embarked on the two hour journey up Pennsylvania A venue to the Capitol. Despite cold and rainy weather, th<: group remained cheerful\ 
·according to RLO organizers. 
"lt was so impressive to see 
people from all over the nation 
unite and participate in this 
kind of an emotional protest,'' 
one student commented. "It 
was very sincere, a sense of 
camaraderie pervaded the 
day's activities." 

The group met at the Grotto 
Monday for a send-off Mass 
said by Bishop Crowley. They 
departed for the long bus trip to 
Washington at 6:15 p.m. 
Funds for the bus were donated 
by the Knights of Columbus 
and the South Bend Right to 
Life Organization. 

Abortion is legal in the 
United States and has been ever smce the Supreme Court's decision of Rot-. V. Wade on Jan. 22, 1973. This decision sparked many intellectual con­flicts among doctors, clergy, lay people, and activists over the past six years. 
Notre Dame's concern for the issue of abortion led to the National Conference on Abor­tion which was held on campus last October. The students' concern for life has led to participation in similar activi­ties over the last few years. 
Participation in the march. ont Washington is just one activity of the RLO. A newsletter is published the last weekend of every month, and open meet­ings are held every other month. Every second Saturday the group can be found saying the Rosary at the Grotto. 
Will the Constitution be 
amended and abortion outlaw­
ed? Not in the near future, but 
the pro-life students are hope­
ful. Tom McLoughlin, publicity 
chairman of the campus pro life 
group expressed his senti­
ments: "We are hopeful. The 
amendment is something we 
pray for and we work for. We 
hope it will be realized.'' 


For further information Wnte Father Andre Le~eille. CSC Box 541 Notre Dame. Indiana 465S6 
CLIP & SAVE 

~-------------------~
r,.,A~:z,a. 50¢ OFF l
08~~~4 ~.,~ WITH COUPON I 
II -;10]1 I
YOUR CHOICE OF ANY DEll-MAID 
..\¥~~-12" or 14" PIZZA
L. ,_;,..,.,._.__ .,. . r.:XPIRES lt30IBO j 
~-------------~-----~ 
Prosecutor continues Pinto case with or without key documents 
WINAMAC, Ind. (AP) -The chief proset:utor in Ford Motor Co.'s reckless homicide trial vowed to press his case even if he is unable to introduce key documents about the safety of the fuel system in Pinto sub­compacts. 
Attorneys for both sides re­tired behind closed doors yes­terday to negotiate use of the documents, whtch ths state maintains show that Ford knew the Pinto fuel tanks were unsafe but did nothing about it. 
Pulaski Circuitj udge Harold 
R. Staffeldt rule Tuesday that the documents cannot be pre­sented without accompanying proof that the evidence is authentic. 
Prosecutor Michael A. Cosen­tino said he offered to exclude some documents from the trial if Ford would agree to authen­ticate others, but he refused to specify which of the more than 130 papers he wanted verified. Chief Ford attorneyJ arnes F. Neal said defense lawyers would study the proposal and make a counter-offer. 
Ford is charged with three counts of reckless homicide in the August 1978 deaths of three teen-agers when their Pinto exploded in flames when hit from behind by a van on a northern Indiana Highway. 
Although Cosentino says the documents are key to his case, he said if he cannot introduce them as evidence, he still will ''go forward and present our evidence anyway and take it as it comes." He said he has other 
Anti-nuclear 
group sponsors talk 
tonight 
Jack Weinberg, member of the Bailly Alliance, an anti-nuclear group in Gary will speak to­night at 7:30 in the South Bend Public Library basement in a talk sponsored by the Bailly Downwind Alliance. 
tdeas about how to authenticate the documents if Ford refuses. 
"We're not ready to throw in the towel,'' Cosentino said. ''That's baloney. We'll be around for a while.'' 
In testimony yesterday, two forensic pathologists said two of the teen-agers killed in the crash would be alive today if not for the burns they sustained. 
Dr. Robert J. Stein, a Cook County. Ill., meqical examiner, and Dr. James A. Benz, chief of pathology at Indianapolis' Wishard Hospital, testified that sisters Judy AnnUlrich, 18, and Lyn Ulrich, 16, did not suffer serious enough injuries as resulted from rear-end impact to kill them. No autopsy was performed on the third victim, Donna Ulrich, 18, the sisters' COUSin. 
Stein said Judy Ulrich, who lived for eight hours after the crash, suffered burns over 95 percent of her body but ad no evidence of any external or internal injuries. 
"No injuries were sustained," he said. "If this mishap had not occurred, Judy Ulrich would be alive." 
Benz, who specializes in auto­psies on burn victims, said Lyn Ulrich, who was sitting in the back seat, suffered no neck or back injuried. 
''I had information that this individual was involved in a rear-end collicion," he said. "I know by experience that injuries in this area (back and neck) are very common." 
Lyn Ulrich suffered a slight skull fracture above the right eye and a broken right thigh, Benz said. 
Staffeldt refused to allow Benz to speculate on how great a force would be needed to cause the broken thigh. 
Prosecution attorneys have been trying to establish through medical testimony that the force of the crash was insuffi­
. . . 
ctent to cause traumattc m-juries, and therefore it was the defective fuel system that caused the car to explode. 
/ 

We've got something for you at ... 
THE HUDDLE 
DELI-ISHUS -FRESH -CUSTOM MADE 
Dell Maicl 

Create your own pizza and we'll make it with the freshest ingredients: mozzarella cheese. sausage. pepperoni, harn. mushrooms. olives. onion and green pepper rings. we bake it and in a few minutes you'll have delicious hot piua that costs a lot less than eating out. Compare prices yourself! 
10"  12"  14"  
CHEESE ONE TOPPING TWO TOPPINGS DELUXE EXTRA CHEESE  1.60 2.10 2.65 3.25 .60 extra  2.10 2.75 3.20 4.15 .75 extra  2.75 3.70 4.60 5.85 .85 extra  
For convenience call ahead or placptzza will be ready when you are.  e your order.  PHii  71 '5 7  Your  


The Observer Thursday, January 24, 1980 -page 9 
Cellist to solo with So. Bend Symphony 
The internationally acclaimed cellist, Yo-Yo-Ma, will be the featured soloist with the South Bend Symphony on Saturday, January 26 an 8 p.m. in the Morris Civic Auditorium. 
. At age four, Yo-Yo-Ma began his ceJlo studies and performed his first recital at the University of Paris in 1961 at age six. Now residing in New York with his family, ~tr. Ma studied wtth Jonas Scholz and the renowned cellist Leonard Rose .at theJ uilliard School of !\-1usic. In the United Sratec:;, Yo-Yo-
Ma performed with ''Isaac Stern and His Friends" at Carnegie Hall and at the Kennedy Center in Wa">hington 
D.C. This season he ::~ppeared with the New York and Los Angeles Philharmonics and the Nat~onal Symphony under Msttslav Rostropovich's con­duction. 
Internationally, Yo-Yo Ma rec­orded with London's Royal Philharmonic Orchestra and toured France, England, Mexico, Canada, Hong Kong, and Taiwan both in recital and as orchestral soloist. In the future, Mr. Ma will play across Europe and with Hebert von · Karajan and the Vienna and Berlin Philharmonic Orch­
estras. 
Critic Eric McL~an, in Mon­
, • • Nukes 
[continued from page 3] 
to burden future generations with these substances,'' Phil­lips commented. 
Phillips then attacked the inef­fectiveness of the U.S. energy policies. Basing his opinion on the Harvard Energy Report, Philiips cited only two possible solutions to the energy crises: conserve energy and utilize solar energy sources. 
"We are being conned by the government. We are constantly told that nuclear power is the solution to the energy crises but only 3% of nuclear power is used for this purpose,'' Phillips said. He said this raises the unanswered question of what is being done with the remaining 97 112 of nuclear energy. 
"The same bureaucracy, the same nuclear industry, promis­ed that a Three Mile Island could not happen and yet it did. But so far nothing is being done to prevent historv from repeat­ing itself," Philltps pointed our. 
Phillips closing remarks em­phasized the fact that today's young people will pay for past mistakes. 
"We're inheriting the entire energy crises, the dangers of nuclear wastes and plants and rhe threat of the atomic bomb as a terrorist weapon. We grew up in the shadow of the atomic bomb and there we will remain if no action is taken," Phillips said. 
Phillips addressed a question 
from the audience dealing with 
the U.S. boycott of the Olympic 
games. 
"l don't thirl.:. young Soviet 
and American :uhletes who 
have beeu rra• :mg for these 
ga1 s fw 1 ·f'ar< should 
'V' , ... vr: .:e for 
other peat,:· 
.._.._ ···-­

~~·" •"'-''·' a·t~•f• ~" .-._,,.,,~. 
treal, commented on a recent 
Yo-Yo Ma recital, ''He is really 
astonishing--a combination of 
the restramed and aristocratic 
approach to Fournier, with the 
warmth and total comittment to 
music that Cassals conveyed in · 
his best days." . 
Tickets are $7, $6, and $5 for 
adults and a dollar off for 
students. Tickets may by 
purchased at the Morris Civic 
Box office from 5 p.m. until 8 
p.m. the night of the perfor­mance. For further information contact the Symphony office at 232-6343. 
Conductor Herbert Butler will direct· the Symphony In Debussy's Nocturnes ac­companied bv the South Bend Symphony's ·female vocalists, Beethoven's Symphony No. 6, 
·''Pastorale, and Shasta· kovitch' s Concerto for Cello, No.1. The superb Yo-Yo Ma will undoubtedly enhance the evening of fine music. 

Japanese film series begins 
The department of Modern and Classical Languages at Notre Dame will sponsor a series of 14 Japanese films on Thursday nights at 7:30 in Washington Hall. 
The series will open tonight with "I Was Born But. .. ," directed by Yasujiro Ozu':-Kenji Mizoguchi' s "Sisters of rhe Gion'' is scheduled for]an. 31, and Akira Kurosawa's "Drunk-• en Angel" will be shown Feb. 
7. Other shows in the series Include "Rachomon, ·' "Seven Samurai," "Crucified Lovers," "Harp of· Burma,"· ''An Autumn Afternoon,'' "Hara-kiri," "An Acot's Re­venge," '·-~'oman in the Dunes,·' "Double Suicide." "The Ceremony" and "Uget·
' 
su. ) 
All films have Japanese dia­logue with English subtitles. Admission for each showmg is ,$1 or $10 for the full series. The films are open to the public. 

THE LEADING NEWSMAGAZINE AT THE LOWEST PRICE. 
Because you attend college you are eligible to receive TIME, the world's lead­ing newsweekly at the lowest indi­vidual subscription rate, just 35¢ · an issue. That's BIG SAVINGS off the regular subscription rate of 59¢ an issue and even BIGGER SAVINGS off the $1.25 
newsstand price. 
.And it's so_simple to subscribe-just look for the cards with TIME and its sister publications, Sports Illustrated, Fortune, Life, Money and People. They are available at the college bookstore or from your local Tl~ representative: 
Kevin Rochford 121 E. Navarre South Bend, IN 46601 
(219) 233-5298 
·~tr 


~--~-------------­
.... -~ 
·.. ­
i 
1 
\ The Observer -Sports Thursday, January 24, 1980 -page 10
\ 
hy lvlark Hannuksela last three minutes. There was ty ot Chicago, and on returning connecting on 13 of 17 charity 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
i 
t; 
\ 
1 
\ 
\ 
. ' ' \ \ 
\ 
~ 
l 
l 
-. 
.~: 
\ 
t' 
_·, 
\ 
( 

I 
( 
< 
,., r ) 
I 
Irish 
recover 
-with 
•

·65-55 W'lfl 
The Daily Crossword 
All Rights Reserved 


w--------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

~ 


Macri's· Italian Bakery 

Celebrating it's 1st Anniversary and treats are on us. 
FREE DELIVERY ON CAMPUSl 
Ph. 282-1010 

\ 

Sports Writer 
It's not uncommon for a team to be unmotivated for a ball­game which comes on the heels ofa tough loss. And if. the game is against a team which you have bea~en before, the coach might as well throw any hope for intensity out in the snow. 
Lucky for Coach Sharon Petre of the women's basketball team, that proved to be an u~n;ces~ary thi_ng to do. 
· 1 hat JUSt m1ght have been the most consistent game we've played all season,'' stated Petro yesterday in discussing Notre Dame's 65-55 victory over Val­paraiso Tuesday night. ''It was back and forth most of the way, but we finally took control in the 
Today'sspecial 
Cannoli 
Weekly specials Free American coffee from 7:00 · 12:00 am. Capuccin 11alf price 
520 E. LaSalle So. Bend 
no inconsistent play and we didn't commit very many turn­overs (12 in all), so I'm basically pleased with our perfor­mance.'' 
"We've still got a couple of things to wotk on, and we definitely need Jane back, (se­nior co-captain Politiski who is still nursing a severely spraineC: ankle) but all things consider­ed, we're in pretty good shape at this point in the season. I will say thts though -we're awful tired.'' 
No one can blame Petro or her cagers for feeling that. Tues­day's game at Valpo was the eighth the Irish have played in the last 12 days.Tomght, the team will be off to the Universi­
by Michael Molinelli 
I
THEN Tfl£ ONES L.JHO /)() __ ()JE TlrlE I .-4!>KE.D 711/Sm£ 
w.wr TO APr. ~~ .... I HEAN .BEitl.fTY IFSH£ lJ<\S 
R£AL Wed' t,./~ ~J;,L. 

IIJ'TET{E6TED NYD H~R ~ SURE, r APPRMCHED 71/F 
WFRIENP [)RDP KICKED H£ PRETTY oNEs, 

.ACROSS 24 Born 44 ~itrus 12 Trees .. Ref.•· ' ore 25 Adventurous flavor 13 Navy con· b Shi~ oard girl 45 Marsh struction 
alee 26 Turkic 46 La_..: vita man 13 tl.JSiC native 47 Poorer, as 15 Smack-dab system 27 Is finished an excuse 19 Somewhat 14 One who got 29 Nymph 48 Toil and peculiar there fanciers trouble 22 Makes plans 
15 Enough area 30 Powerful 50 Peregrina· 23 Afterward to maneuver ruler tions 25 Take as a boat 32 Leftovers 52 Give the one's own 
16 Dizzy spell 35 Put up with right 26 Spud 17 Young 39 FreQ tent 53 Gypsy world 28 Encompasses 
salmons eeri 1 54 Most 29 Firm concern 18 High spots 40 Thorny bush abstruse 31 Cosmetics, ."0 Flop 41 Legal pro-55 Ferme~•ing generally 21 With effi­tess ion agent 32 Switched 
ciency 42 Egyptian places 22 Treaties goddess DOWN Garrison 23 Oldtime 43 Reverse 1 Hollywood town 
actress Lee of a coin cutie barracks 2 Bright and 34 Broken down chee~ .. · 36 Food as
Yesterd."Y s Puzz', Solved: 

3 The love nutriment 
child 37 With docil· 4 Lion ity 5 American 38 Pitchers 
Revolution-40 Dance as ist author entertain­
6 Boxing with ment hands and 43 Hard labors feet 44 Hot out­
7 Journeys pourings overland 46 Girl to
-

8 Bumbles meet 9 Presence-47 Tibetan 
of mind monk 10 Greed 49 A somebody 11 Steady 51 Caviar base 
to The Bend will face contests with Mount St. Toseph's (which will immediatety follow Satur­day's men's game against Ma­ryland),, and arch rival Saint Mary's (WednesdayJanuary 3C at 7:30 p.m.). 
Three Irish players reached double figures in Tuesday night's victory, which raised Notre Dame's record to 8-4. Freshman Shari Matvey led the way for the Irish with 22 points and six rebounds. Sophomore Tricia McManus and Missy Conboy added 14 and 11 points respectively. McManus also 
· contributed seven rebounds. In the contest, the Irish set a team record for best free throw percentage for a single game by 
tosses for .764 percent. The old record was set back on Novem­ber 18, 1978, when Notre Dame hit 19 of 26 ('f-730 percent) in an 81-51 season opening win over Clarke ColJege. 
Senior co=captain Molly Cash­man, who hit four of six free throws to contribute to Tues­day's record setting perfor­mance, talked last night about her role in getting the team up for games. 
''Sometimes it can be a pro­blem getting up for games like that (against Valpo)," stated the 5-4 guard from Hopkins, Minnesota. ''One of the things that helps is realizing that we are a big game on their sche­dule. The fact that we are Notre Dame, and the fact that we had fu...'lten them five times in the last two years really made them ready to want to play us, and it took a real team effort for us to beat the~ last night.'' 
''As far as other games are concerned, I try to basically approach them all the same way. The team knows what they have to do and all it takes is concentration on our part to perform the way we are capable of performing. '' 
Duke upset 

DURHAM, N.C. (AP) . Jeft Lamp scored 27 points and Ralph Sampson added 23 as 17th-ranked Virginia upset third-ranked Duke 90-84 on the Blue Devils' home territory in an Atlantic Coast Conference college basketball game Wed­nesday night. 
It had been billed as a battle of the centers, with 7-foot-4 fresh­man Sampson against Duke's 6-foot-11 senior Mike Gminski. Gminski turned in a 20-P.oint game but Sampson was hke a giant whirly-bird, blocking shots and scoring skyhol'ks ovet Gminski. 
Kentucky romps_ 
STARK''TLLE, i,fiss. (AP) ­Guard Kyle Macy sparked a second half surge that propel­led the fifth-ranked Kent'Jcky Wildcats to an . 89-67 victory over the Mississippi State Bull­dogs in a Southeastern Confer­ence basketball game last ntght. 
Macy hit 14 of hi~ 20 points in the second half as the Wildcats rolled to their 16th victory against three defeats. Kemuckv is 6-2 in the SEC. a half-game behind first place Tennessee, 
7-2. 
Molarity 

GO "'WAY .1 GO AWAY.IJ I t-iAVE' Ff?IENDS IW HIGH 



l HUGH?( Tl-/15 ts CHAN. I r'/1 i-IA VJA/6 A Ffl>U6H TJME f/E~E ·1 .FlllST OFF HO!JT 6/RLS OBJ£«! 
70'HE BEIN& HEHE. THEY'!?£
I

;OUTSIDE HY RotJ1 RIGHT AJtJW 
' PROTEsriN~. 


1--· 

(With any purchase) 
3~e6Leett 
Ot~ia-~ 
Am{l,eerakedoiey 


.__ ....·
-----. ~ 
The Observer -Sports . Thursday, January 24, 1980-page-11' ' 

-
... 
-

) 
) 

\ 
' 

Thursday, January 24, 1980 --page 12

_:Qorts 
Phelps empties bench! 
Jackson pacesi win over Canisius 
by Mark Perry Phelps used his bench freely I The Irish will now begin Sports Edt"tor as ten players scored for Notre preparations for Saturday's na­Dame. ] ackson was followed by tiOnally televised contest With Tracy ] ackson leading· Kelly Tripucka, who notched 11 against Maryland, the leaders 
the way with 18 points, Notre' points, and freshman Bill Var­in the Atlantic Coast Confer­Dame coach Digger Phelps got• 
ner, 10 points. ] ackson led all ence. Tip-off is scheduled for 
a good opportunity to look at his 1:30 at the ACC.
rebounders with ten. p.m.whole team in action, as the ] unior Gilbert Salinas came off Irish cruised to an easy 84-63 the bench to start!for the Irish in 
win over the Golden Griffins of place of injured Orlando Wool­Canisius College at the ACC ridge, and responded by 
scor­last night. ing eight points and dishing out 
Pep rally
''The kids needed the playing five assists. Woolridge, who is 
l 
rime,'' said Phelps after the nursing an infected heel, is game, ''and I was happy to get expected to be in action against There will be a pep rally for
the bench in there. They all Maryland on Saturday. 
l 
the Notre Dame-Marylandplayed very well.'' The Irish succeded in stifling game tomorrow night at 7: 30 
] ackson scored six of Notre the leading scorer of the Grif­p.m. in the ACC pit. DiggerDame's first ten points, helping fins, Duke Richardson. The Phelps, the Notre Dame band to ignite a rally that turned an senior guard, who came into the and cheerleaders, and a special
. \ 8-8 tie into a 16-8 Irish lead that game averging 13.6 points per guest will be featured. Every­would not be challenged. Notre game, scored his only basket one is urged to attend and show

\ Dame was plagued by turn­with three minutes left in the their support for the Irish as overs in the first half, but still game. Forward Barry Moore they prepape for their nation­managed to build a 37-23 led Canisius ~ith 13 points, and ally televised battle against the 
halftime lead. Kelly Young added 10. 14th-ranked Terrapins.
''You would think that we "Duke is not a great outside would let down after games like shooter,''said Canisius coach UCLA and Villanova, but I'rr, Nick Macarchuck, "but instead 
really happy with our perfor­relies on drives for most of his
~ ~ Matvey emerges in premiere season
mance tonight," said Phelps, points. He does what he can do. I \ who recorded the 199th victory Notre Dame did a great job of of his collegiate career, 173 at taking his game away from 
I '\ 
Notre Dame. him, especially since he didn't by Beth Huffman style ro pace the Irish women's rebounds. Under her leadership ~ { "I thought we did a lot of even shoot any free throws. Women's Sports Editor basketball team this season. Austintown Fitch captured two things well in the first half, I' "Notre Dame is a good defen­Matvey, who hails from conference titles and the sec­sive team, "Macarchuck added. They say that basketball is a Youngstown, Ohio, boasts an ti~nal championship in her se­
he continued. "We were a little
:I 
They are very similiar to Syra­tall man's game, but Notre impressive average of 17.6 ntor year.

sloppy ar the beginning, but we 
cuse (who defeated Canisius 81-Dame's Shari Matvey has start­pomts per game this season, A college education for Mat­shot when we had to shoot, hit 
49) in that they don't give up ed to turn some to the notion and has led the Irish in scoring vey had to include both a goodthe offensive and defensive easy shots. Notre Dame that basketball can benefit the on several occasions. Earlier academic reputation and a goodboards well, and I was happy doesn't have an intimidator like tall woman too. Matvey, a 6-1 this year at the Northern Illinois basketball team. Notre Dame 
l. 
with the way we mixed up our (Roosevelt) Bouie, but they still freshman, has brought her own Tournament, Matvey scored 31 was finally selected over scho­defenses.'' have good size.'' brand of finesse, grace, and points to surpass ] ane Politi­larship offers by Wake Forest ski's record of 29, and was and Princeton. 
' named most valuable plaxer of Hard work went into preparing the tournament for her efforts. Matvey for her debut on the But putting the ball in the Irish squad, with her father
Poulin boUnces back to lead ND 
basket is something that Mat­directing the training. 
vey has grown accustomed to. "Dad IS my number one fan, by Brzan Beglane meningitis just changes your came down with the measle~, Matvey had a disheartening he took a tablet to my games in Sports Wrz.ter perception of everythin&,'' said and missed three games. start at Austintown High School high school and kept my stats. Poulin, a native of Misstssauga, ''I guess I was starting to her first year, playing very little He was my coach on the side. I 

In a season of ups and downs Ont. "I had never been stck wonder what else could for the junior varsity squad and miss not having him around and for the Notre Dame hockey like that before. There is happen," said Dave. "My scoring just 14 points. But her call him after the games.'' team, sophomore Dave Poulin nothing I could do about it, I defenses must have been low effort was good enough to earn Mr. and Mrs. Matvey did get has taken the grand tour from guess 1t was like some outside after being sick before, so her the Most Improved Player to see the St. Ambrose game 
the peaks to the valleys. · force acting on me.'' that's why I got the measles. I award and give her some Friday and the St. Louis game When he is healthy, some­Poulin fortunately responded had lost over 20 pounds from encouragement to work on her on Sunday a&ernoon and times is seems like a brick wall well to treatment and was my preseason weight, but I'm talent. daughter Shari put one an is the only thing that can stop released from the hospital in starting to bounce back.'' Hard work paid off for Mat­impressive show for the Pa­him on the ·ice. But a ton of less than a week. A month's "Bounce back" might qualify vey, as she went on to lead her rent's Weekend crowd. With bricks fell on Poulin in mid­period of recovery foilowed, but as the understatement of the team for three years. Named an senior ] ane Politiski sidelined 
November when viral menin­he managed tu be back for year. Playing almost healthy all-city and all-state player, due to an ankle injury, Matvey gitis struck him. Least of all the exam week and returned to for the first time since Nov. 10, Matvey accumulated just a devoured the middle against consequences was the fact he action on the ice on Dec. 29. Poulin led an Irish sweep last shade under 1,000 career points both teams and came away with 
missed eight games. The following week in Minnea­weekend over Colorado College in her high school career with 
[continued on page 11]
'' Havin somethin like .s the second-year with four goals and three game highs of 31 points and 22 assists. Included in that was a second period hat trick in Saturday's S-3 win. For his efforts, Poulin was named the 
Belles face Purdue-Calumet 
Western Collegiate Hockey Association's Player of the Week. by Beth Huffman have in the last two games we 
"There's no doubt about it," Women's Sports Editor should win, but we can't take says Notre Dame coach Lefty them for granted,'' offered the Smith. "Dave makes things go. Purdue-Calumet will journey second year mentor. he is a fast skater, a superb ·into Belle country tonight to The last two games for Saint 
playmaker and ignites the rest match up against Saint Mary's Mary's have been exceptionallyvf the team. His presence basketball team at 7:00 p.m. in productive with the Belles pull­makes a big difference.'' Angela Athletic Facility. The in_g out and extremely-tough
"I really was ready to get back Belles, who now post a 7-4 wm, 72-67, at Manchester playing," added Poulin. "It season effort, fell to the Purdue­College on Tuesday. Senior had been so long and I hate Calumet team by just four Nancy Nowalk tallied 20 pointsbeing a spectator." points last year, and coach for Saint Mary's while fresh­Spectating, however, does not ] erry Dallessio suggested the man guard Anne Armstrong 
, keep a player in the best of Saint Mary's squad may be in continued with her hot hand to shape, and despite the highly for another tough battle. put in 19. productive weekend, believe it "Manchester was one of our
·'They have a couple of pretty 
or not, Poulin was not a 100 
tall girls, one girl is 6-1. Last toughest games all year,'' . 
percent effectiveness. year she scored 33 points commented Dallessio, ''Two of "By the third period Friday," against us. Besides her they their girls got really hot from explained Dave, "I was have one or two pretty good the outside and were hitting
hurting. It had been a while players; overall they aren't very from 20 feet away. We had to 
and I was losing my wind more strong. What we'll have to make some adjustments in our qukkly. Saturday, though, I ·watch for is the tall girl and zone defense that helped.'' 
, returnmg ·
ss, ead a felt good. hope she doesn't get hot. Another added plus for the
Notre Dame sweep over . [photo by Mike 
[continued on page 11] ''I feel we have more overall [continued on page 11]Bigley) 
talent. If we can play like we~ 




