
VOL XIV NO. 78 TIJESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1980
an mdependent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
FBI discloses bribery scandal in Congress 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The government lodged its first criminal charges yesterday in the FBI's 14-month political corruption investigation as a source close to the case said there is a possibility that a ninth member of Congress might be involved. 
This source, asking anonymi­ty, said yesterday that seven House members and one sena­tor, whose names became pu­blic over the weekend, remain su~ject to potential grand jury acuon. 
The source said the ninth member of Congress who may be involved in the case does not appear to be the subject of further scrutinity at this time. The source declined to identify the ninth member and would not give any details of the possible involvement. 
However, the source denied that the ninth member was Rep. James Howard, D-N.J. Howard volunteered to repor­ters yesterday that he refused an offer of campaign contribu­tions for helping Arab shieks invest money in his home state. It was not clear whether the incident Howard reported had anything to do with the FBI undercover operation. 
The source emphasized that only one member of Congress who met with FBI undercover agents, Sen. Larry Pressler, R-S.D., has been completely cleared by the government. Sources have reported that Pressler angrily stormed out of a meeting with undercover FBI agents when it was indicated they represented a. client will­ing to pay for political favors. . The first formal charges aris­mg from the FBI investigation ~ere filed against an Immigra­tion and Naturalization Service investigator in Brooklyn, N.Y., was arraigned before a U.S. magistrate and was formally charged with one count of bribery and one count of con­spiracy. 
Officials said the government might be~in presenting evi­d_ence agamst other public offi­ctals to several grand juries later this week. 
All the subjects in the probe, some 20 public officials and 10 businessmen and lawyers were visited by the FBI ov~r the weekend and notified that they were und_er investigation, one source sa1d. 
In addition to state and local officials in New Jersey and Pennsylvania, sources said those who became subjects of the FBI investigation included Sen. Harrison A. Williams Jr., D-N.J ., and Reps. John M. Murphy, D-N.Y.; Frank Thompson Jr., D-N.J.; Michael 
0. Myers, D-Pa.; John W. Jenrette, D-S.C.; John P. Mur. tha, D-Pa., and Richard Kelly, R-Fla. 
Most of the eight members of Congress have issued state­~ents denying any wrongdo­mg. 

On Capital Hill, congressional leaders expressed shock at reports linking the eight law­makers to the FBI investiga­tion, and ethics committees in both the House and Senate announced they would conduct their own inquiries. 
The House ethics committee quickly called a meeting to begin its probe after disclosure that FBI agents posed as aides to a wealthy Arab sheik who was willing to pay bribes to congressmen and"other officials in exchange for political favors. Sources say some officials were photographed with video-tape equipment in the act of taking money. 
The chairman of the Senate Ethics Committee, Sen. Howell Heflin, D-Ala., promised a "thorough investigation" and 
These Augusta Hall residents pitch in to help clean up after fire 
said he had met earlier in the 
damaged their dorm. See story at nght. [Photo by Phil [continued on page 3] johnson. 

Trouble in Santa Fe 

Rioters torture cellmates 
SANTA FE, N.M. (AP) -An execution squad armed with blowtorches and axes tortured and murdered fellow inmates during the 36 hours of hell behind the walls of the New Mexico State Penitentiary, in­mates said yesterday. Officials said 35 and perha.J?S 39 died and 15 others were mtssing. 
"I saw some people cutting a dude's eye out with a cutting torch," one prisoner told repor­ters allowed inside the smolder­ing prison that was recaptured by National Guardsmen and police Sunday afternoon after a day and a half of rioting. 
The horror encountered dur­ing yesterday's search for more bodies caused some Guards­men to vomit. 
Warden Jerry Griffin said late yesterday afternoon that all fires were out. 
He told families of inmates 
and reporters that a list of the 
dead and injured was being 
prepared and said relatives of 
the dead were being notified. 
Griffin said he could confirm 
only 35 deaths, conflicting with 
reports of 39 dead from Gov. 
Bruce King. 
Officials said earlier that 200 
maximum security prisoners 
already were back in one cell­
block and Griffin said officers 
prepared to move additional 
prisoners into another cell­
block. 

He said corrections officers 
were classifying the prisoners 
carefully before moving them 
back inside. 
"We don't want to get men in 
with others that could hurt 
them," he said. "We're trying 
to preserve their safety.'' 
About 250 Guardsmen stood 
watch over hundreds of dis­
placed inmates who huddled in tents on the .J?rison grounds to ward off freezmg temperatures. State officials hunting a place to put them said they had offers of help from Arizona and Colora­do. 
King said 32 bodies had been found in the compound and seven other prisoners were dead on arrival at local hospi­tals suffering overdoses of drugs. Fifteen inmates were still unaccounted for in the nation's worst prison riot since the Attica uprising in 1971 left 43 people dead in New York state. 
New Mexico inmates said that after the riot broke out early Saturday, executioners snatch­ed some prisoners form their cells and tortured them with blowtorches, axes and metal rods. Some were beheaded they said. 
Prison officials said the rioters ransacked prison offices and found confidential files. That is when the bloodbath began, as the inmates rounded up infor­
mers. 
•'There was an execution squad of seven prisoners,'' a hooded inmate told The Associ­ated Press yesterday. 
Chief Warrant Officer Alfred Ortiz, a· member of the National Guard body detail, helped take 22 bodies to Bernalillo County
Medical Center in Albuquerque 
on Sunday night. He said one of 
the dead prisoners had a rod 
stuck through his head. 
Prison areas shown reporters yesterday were nearly destroy­ed. Windows were smashed and water co~ered the floor· The only are~ virtually untouch­
-ed was the !tbrary. 
, · .d f h d d. 
,0 ntz sat many o t e ea 
had been tortured. 
''One of them still had a rope 

----~----~-~-----------.--------~----­
, , , Navy Sinks -page 8 
..J 

Heil sponsors lectures on the impending threat ofdraft 
by Mary Fran Callahan StaffReporter 
Spurred by the impending threat of draft registration, Junior Tor Heil is sponsoring a series of lectures which will offer students a \ariety of perspectives on the draft and the issues surrounding the draft. 
Though still unclear as to his personal position on the draft, Heil 
' explained his motivation for the lecture series as a search for answers to questions regarding the draft. "There's been a lot of song and dance on television with people burning draft cards. I think we all need to start on some solid ground I hope the talks will inspire a little more thought around here," Heil explained. 
Though the speakers will-be announced at a later date, the lecture series will take place on four consecutive evenings beginning FeL. 18 ­nine days after President Carter delivers his draft message to Congress. The first lecture will present the concrete legal options a student has as weD as the Christian ethical perspective on the draft. 
Dealing specifically with the Roman Catholic position on conscientious objection, a member of the theology department will speak the second night. The third presentation wiD be a panel discussi 
., ~ . on
.onnat concemmg the pros and cons of a volunteer anny versus a 
consripted militia. (continued on page 4) 
around_his neck and then they · smashed his head in,'' Ortiz 
said. "It was horrible." 
Margaret Babcock, a prison 
secretary, said she was lookin~ 
through binoculars from a pn­
son fence when she saw one 
inmate being tortured with a 
blowtorch near a cellblock. 
''Four or five men were hold­
ing one man down and burning 
his head and face with a torch,'' 
she said. "He was screaming. I 
couldn't believe it. It was like a 
nightmare.'' 
[continued on page 3] 

Fire damages -two floors of Augusta Hall 
by Mary Kay Ley don StrJ/f Reporter 

A fire which broke out last night in Augusta Hall caused slight damage to two floors of the=: hall before being extin­gmshed by the automatic sprinkler system, residents said. No injuries were reported. 
Martha Hausmann, a member of the second-floor section in which the ftre started, reported smelling smoke to Saint Mary's Security at approximately 6:05 
p.m. She called again moments later to add that flames could be seen above her transom, she said. Security arrived soon thereafter, she reported. 
After security was alerted, another section member, Julie De Rose, called the South Bend Fire· Department at approxi­mately 6:08 p.m. However, the woman failed to pull the ftre alarm to vacate the b'uilding, sources said. 

· A member of the section added that the security guard did little to enforce fire proce­dure. "He left the keys to the room in the car and made us all the more frightened because he 
·didn't seem to know what to do. But no one really panicked,'' she said. 
The Notre Dame Fire Depart­ment arrived with one engine at approximately 6:14 p.m. They were aided by the South Bend Fire Department, which sent two trucks, a ladder trUck, and a rescue squad. 
Residents said an insurance investigation believed the pro­bable cause of the ftre to be a faulty wire in a lamp in a second floor room. They reported that 
[continued on page 5] 

·.,,· _.,. ...... ,.. . ·• ~ ."""' 
.....,...,~-~.---­

--------~-~--~-~---------~~~-----~.,....---­
·

News in brief  Tuesday, February 5, 1980 -page 2  
Disco dudes sent to slammer, pull 3Y2 years for tax scam NEW YORK (AP) -Steve Rubell and Ian Sc~~ager, owners of Studio 54 disco surrender to federal authonues Monday to begin serving 3 1h., year prison sentences for tax eva~ion. On Saturday night, about 3,000 people attended a gomgaway party at the disco for Rubell and Schrager. Hours later, the owners showed up at Metropolitan Correctional Cente_r. RubeII and Schrager were sentenced J ~n.l7 to 31A ye_ars m prison and fined $20,000 each on thetr pleas of gudty to corporate and personal tax evasion. Both agreed with the Internal Revenue Service to repay all taxes due and a 50 percent penalty. Pinto bums, mother oftwo dies; damage suit results SPRINGFIELD. Mo. (AP) -A $10 million damage suit was filed in federal cuurt Monday against Ford Motor Co. by the guardian of twol:hildren whose mother was killed in a fiery rear-c:nd crash of " Ford Pinto. The suit was filed in U.S. District Court by Philip Goosey, guardian of the late Mary S~:heidt's minor chil~ren, !vfathew and ~ristina. It allC?ges 'that the llJ78 Pmto m whtch Mrs. Schetdt, 25, was kdled Aug. 10 was deficient in design and that Ford failed to correct known deficiencies. It seeks $5 million for her two children, whose ages were not disclosed. \ Poor patrons stifle hopes of would-be hood;keep change BESSENER,Ala. (AP) -A man walked into a tavern Saturday night, pulled a gun, announced a holdup and passed his hat around, ordering the handful of patrons to fill It up. When he got the hat back, he emptied the money on the floor and said, ''If that's all you have in here, you people should be robbing me.'' With that he pocketed his gun, put on his hat. and walked out. ·weather An 80 percent chance of_ snow today continuing ton~ght before ending tomorrow. Htghs today_ 20 to 25. Lows tomght near 15. Highs tomorrow tn the low 20s. near 15. Highs tomorrow in the low 20s.  Trueman by Michael Mader StaffReporter Patrick Trueman, executive director and general counsel of Americans United for Life, st>oke before a group of 70 last mght in the Library auditorium on the subject of "in vitro" fertilization, more commonly referred to as test-tube fertiliza­tion. Trueman spoke about the mo­rality of in vitro fertilization, and possible outcomes of this phenomenon... He questioned the morality of removing a human embryo from its natural environment, and the rights of an individual to do research on ~he subject with federal fund­mg. Trueman suggested that wo­men may eventually decide to "sell" their ovary and offered an idea held by Dr. James Bonner of the California Insti­tute of Technology. Bonner suggested that genetic ma~erial may be taken from spectmen human beings and then a record of the individuals be kep_t.. If at death it is decide~ _an indivtdual exerted a postttve effect on the world, he could be procreated. · According to Trueman, the in vitw process involves securing several ova through the navel in an operation, and then fertiliz­ing with the sperm of a donor. One egg is then usually allowed to develop three or four days and then reinserted in the female. Trueman said it is not known how long an embryo can survive, but there is concern about letting it grow for more than 14 days outside the mother because the egg attaches itself; naturally to the ovary in 141 days. I A lawyer who currently has an abortion case pending before the Supreme Court, Trueman has spoken around the country to both pro-life and pro-abor­f--lbe Observer_ Night Editor: Steve "not really'' Swonk  explains 'in vitro' tion groups on the subject of in Trueman mentioned that an in vitro ferulization. vitro clinic has already been Trueman spoke before the given permission to be built. It attentive group with conviction will be established in Norfolk, but did not force his ideas on VA, in the next few months. the listeners. Trueman present­The doctors wishing to build the ed his facts in order to teach the clinic went through public hear­group. "I think many Ameri­ings to get accepted, Trueman cans know so little about in vitro noted. ''They said they would fertilization," Trueman said. create an embryo one at a time "Americans seem to be over­and implant each in a woman,'' whelmingly in favor of in vitro said Trueman. "I frankly don't because the public has no believe that only one life will be decent idea of what in vitro is created for each woman seeking about,'' Trueman added. to have a baby.'' Reasons he A major concern of Trueman's gave included possibilities of was the request of doctors for defective embryos, creating money to research in vitro fear of a lawsuit if implanted fertilization. In particular, Dr. and allowed to come to term Pierre Soupart of Vanderbilt and that it is, "far more University would like $400,000 expedient and less expensive to from HEW in order to create, take out and fertilize several and then destroy 450 fertilized ova and discard the unused eggs. Trueman pointed out that ones. " before the birth of the first According to Trueman, the test-tube baby, Louise ) oy moratorium placed on federal Brown, the government had funding was lifted by the Ethi­placed a moratorium on money cal Advisory Board, a section of for such funding. After Brown HEW. The members decided was born, Soupart had original­unanimously that in vitro ferti­ly intended to ask for $30,000 lization is ethical. ''No one was until he found out the govern­willing to say that because it ment was interested in funding such an effort, Trueman said. [continued on page 6] WAll!ID: DAY IDI!OB IN THE SAINT MARY'S OBSERVER (OFFICE FOR TUESDAY AND THURSDAY l-4pm .pai4 position call Margie 4161 R.D. Bowing Olub Mandatory meeting for all members 

 
1 : 1 5 pm LECTIJRE "do you have what it takes," by don  
baines, dir. of pub. rei. at mark-makers, inc., MOREAU  Asst. Night Editor: Ryan  
HALL SMC  "really" Ver Berkmoes, Cin­dy "really, really" Kliros,  'lues. 118 · 7:10 :pm  
3:30 pm COMPUTER MINI-COURSE, computer graphics, sponsored by computing center, 115 CCMB  Sal "totally" Granata Copy Editor: Tom "I have no clever nickname'' ) ackman  Lal'ortune Aud.  
3:30pm SEMINAR," perils of optimization", prof. dougl_ass j. wilde, stanford u., sponsored by aero and mechamcal  Layout Staff: Katie K. News Editor: Mike Shields  florida 'lrl:p· !eam Picture  
eng., 356 FITZPATRICK HALL.  · Sports Layout: Beth Huff­man  
 
4:30pm SEMINAR, "the role of hemolymph proteins in the  Typists: Beth Huffman,  
subzero temperature survival of insects and other poikilo­ Scoop "like SF ' j' Sul­ ----------------~  
therms" dr. john g. duman sponsored by the biology department, NO GALVIN AUD  livan EMT: S. Paul Selavko Proofreader: Maryellen  no!!!!~~~~~~2~2~pe 
5-6:30 pm VALENTINE CARNATION SALE, spon. by badin hall deliveries made on the 14th, sale in SOUTH DINING HALL. 5:30-7:30 pm URBAN PLUNGE follow-up meeting, faculty dining room, second floor, SOUTH DINING HAll. 7 pm STIJDENT PLAYERS AUDITIONS spon. by s.u. cultural arts, FLANNER PIT.  ·~~..,~ ND I5ay Editor: Bob Berna· skie SMC Day Editor: C«e Bali­les Ad Desig": Joe Murphy, Molly O'Neill Photographer. Phillip John­son Guest Appearances: ~O'B,  selection and concert ticket headquatte11 I I1.00OFF an,yalbumottape Ilimit one coupon per person I iresfeb.15 1980 II 
7 pm PUBLIC HEA~ING on h.e.w. issue~, spon. by mock republican convenuon platform committee, RM. 116 O'SHAG. 7:30 pm MOVIE • "along the volga," spon. by dept. of mod. & class. lang., SATElliTE I O'SHAG. 8 pm SPEECH, "college athletics," by asst. athletic director col. jack stephens, spon. by grace hall, GRACE HAll PIT. 8pm LADIES OF ND MEETING "writing fiction" prof. r.m. mcin~rny, LIBRARY LOUNGE.  Ann M., PamJohn S., Perry Tilt Obstnrtr [USPS • 12DJ II pubtisllld Mllllday tllraugh Frtily 11­cept during uam and viCitilll ,_.._ The Observer Is pulllisllld "' 1111 students If Ntlrl DINIII • Slitll MirY's Ctlllgt. Sublcriptila lillY Ill purdsaud •• S2l per ,.., [$11 ..... ~~m~~ttrJ frtm The ObSerVer. ,..0. 1111 a. Ntlrl Dam~,llllllau ... s-11 claa pestagt paid, Ntlrt DIIM, Ill· diana ·41551. Tne Observer Is a llllllllllr II 1111 Auoclattd Pl'lll. All ••ldlo:tlllt rigtlta .,, rtMrWd.  _!8,200 albuma and tcap•sln stock .I ND/Smc student checks accepted for up to 1I 120.00 over putchasel amount 1I ,,~Op~~ 10to 10, 7 da,ya a week I ... . t II RIVER CITY/RECORDS 1 50970 U.S. 31 NORTHI I 3miles notth of campus 277-4242 I! - 



---~r-


The Observer 
... Riot 
[continued from page 1) lot of bodies in there. 
involved," said state police
''National Guardsmen are 
Maj. Charlie ~ava. ·:!t was 
One guard and nine inmates _ throwing up all over." getting all the ;smtchers were listed in critical condition · ''There was blood all over 
''The violence was incredi­
in area hospitals. Seven guards against the wall, smeared a­ble," said Adolph Saenz, nearly and 55 inmates were admitted round," said Lt. Richard Mon­appointed secretary of the to hospitals, and 14 inmates toya, who headed the special state's Criminal]ustice Depart­were treated for drug overdo­weapons team the led the move ment. He said at least 80 ses. to regain control of the prison. 
percent of the prison's struc­
State officials said it might All the 15 guards and other ture was destroved: cost as much as $50 million to employees taken hostage es­State Rep. Fred Mondragonreplace the state's only maxi­caped death. Only 18 guards estimated it would cost, $40mum-security prison, which were on duty when the riot million to $50 million to rtplacewas built to house 850· inmates erupted. 
the 23-year-old prison. ,and was holding 1, 136 when the Guard Fred Herrera said, 

riot erupted. "Some of those guys' (in­The siege ended quietly about mates') faces are totally gone." 2 p.m. Sunday mer state 
State Sen. Ben Altamirano said officials promised inmates they ''There was a rod stuck he saw the body of a black would not use violence in 
inmate who had been decapi­retaking the institutiOJ?-. With_or
into one ofthepnsoner's 
without violence, King satd,
tated and his head stuffed

ears. . . He still had it in ·''We told them we were coming
between his legs. Guards said when we took the body another inmate had his arm cut in.'' off before he was hurled from 
. No shots were fired.

out,'' Ortiz said. 
an upper window. "We caught them by sur­''From what we understand prise," King said. "TheY. didn't
Fire was still burning in the 1
there was no racial tension even put up a fight.''
prison gymnasium Monday when fireman Georse Carrion Jr. of Santa Fe satd he saw three charred bodies lying on the gym floor. 
• • . Bribery
"Nobody's gone in because they're afraid the roof might come down." he said. 

tigate illegal aliens and corrup­''There was a rod stuck into tion, was arre~ted Saturday by one of the prisoner's ears, 
day with FBI Director William the FBI. He sa1d Alexandro wasforced through his head and Webster and Attorney General held in a Manhattan jail overthrough the other side. He still · Benjamin Civiletti. the weekend as part of ahad it in when w·e took the body Heflin said he discussed hav­government effort to try to getout," Ortiz said. 
ing the FBI turn the results of figures in the probe to co-King said yesterday that at 
its investigation over .to the operate. _ least seven of the prisoners ethics panel, but the Justice A Justice Department source 
died of drug-overdoses, after Department officials did not who declined to be named said the rioters broke into the/rison investigators would be inter­
immediately offer to do so.pharmacy. Others die of ''The problem is that all the viewing employees of the . de­
smoke inhalation and some evidence, all the tapes, all the partment, the FBI and vanous 
were murdered, the governor videotapes are in the hands of U.S. attorneys' offices as p~rt said. the Department of Justice,'' of this probe. The source satd, "It's one hell of a bloody mess Heflin said. "We are depen­''The department does not plan in there," said Corrections dent upon them." to subpoena reporters, nor to Commission chairman Bud Ri­The House committee took no ask them for cooperation, be­chards. ''There are a hell of a cause there have been no
action on a proposal to suppoe­na the videotapes before they violations by members of the become wrapped up in grand media."
Alliance jury proceedmgs. 
At the Brooklyn arraignment for Alexandra, the government


group to CAPpresents
charged that on May 31, 1979, an undercover FBI agent wasmeet introduced to the immigration inspector as a person who noontime would pay to secure permanent
The Bailly DownwindAIIiance luncheons
U.S. residence status for an
(BDA), an anti-nuclear group, individual outside the country. The Committee on Academicwill hold an organizational The government complaint Progress is presenting a seriesmeeting tonight at 9 p.m. in the 
said Alexandra agreed to pro­of noon luncheons in the Southbasep1ent of LaFortune. The vide that service and that on Dining Hall begin~i~g tomor­BDA is a local education sroup Aug. 23, at the International row in the faculty dmtng mom.
that opposes the construction of 
Hotel at New York's Kennedy Tomorrow's guest will be Rob­the Bailly Nuclear Power Plant Airport, he accepted a $2,000 ert Waddick, assistant dean of near Chesterton, IN. It seeks down payment on a total of the College of Arts and Letter-~.
public support and involve­
$15,000 promised to him for his Interested CAP students and ment in the development of efforts. faculty who wish to attend arealternate energy sources. 
Alexandra's attorney,Joel Wi­asked to contact' the CAP office Tomorrow's meeting will in­
nograd, told reporters that A­today or to call Daniel Rettig orclude discussions of the BDA.'s 
lexandra, whose job is to inves-Terry Keeley. 
background and goals as well as 
the group's future plans. All intere-sted students, faculty and 
staff are welcome. 

Off-Campus Students: 
Prof. Duman Help FIGHT CRIME! discusses 

~~1;,

Proteins 
Professor John G. Duman of 
the Notre Dame Biology De­
partment will conduct a sem­


mar today at 4:30 on ''The Role 
of Hemolymph Proteins in the 
Subzero Temperature Survival Fill out andsendbackyour·of Insects and Other Poikilo­
therms." The seminar will tak<Y 
place in the auditorium of the Crime Survey
Galvin Life Sciences Building, 
refreshments will be available 
at 4:15 p.m., and all are ...Comingtoyourhouse soon. cordially invited to attend. 

... . .,,................

~~ 
. "'. ~ ' .•. " ...__ , ;·:.111 •. 
,. '!"' • ~ • 

Tuesday, February 5, 1980 -pagt 
/VI,,_.,.,,r"" McAllister, recent •m,.,.,,~.. Award for military excellence is the first woman ROTC cadet from Notre Dame to from the Army Basic Parachute School. McAllister is also the first woman AROTC Cadet Battalion Commander at Notre Dame, and ranked tenth out of 2, 750 cadets at the nffi'cer's Basic Camp, Ft. Riley, Kansas [Photo by Mike Casey] 

Sl~[) §()~f()~l 4SJ>E(I4l~Alf~ll~l~s 
UA~ J>I~S()~AI_ 
..., ;..'/.' 
OUR 

l11EPJ~RE FOR: J~m P 
MCAT •OAT· LSAT •GMAT GRE •ORE PSYCH· ORE BID PCAl· OCAT•VAT· MAT· SAT 1MBI,H,m·fCFMG ·FLEX· VQE 
NOB I, D • NPB I• NLE 
Flexible Programs & Hours 
Visit Any Cenfer And See For Yourself Why We Make The Difference 

l~-H MPIAN 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER


291-3150 
TEST PREPARATION SPECIAliSTS SINCE 1938 

Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800-223·1182 Centers In More Than 80 Major US Clti:s Puerto Rico, Toronto, Canada & Lugano Swifierland 




Who's Hughes? 
First to develop a synchronous-orbit satellite, Syncom, initiating the whole era of space communications. 
First in high-technology electronics. 
Yo1,1r first employer after graduation, perhaps! Before graduation, ask your placement office when Hughes Aircraft Company's recruiters will be on campus. 
r------------------, 
I I 
i i
HUGHES 
IL __________________ JI 
Crealmg a new world w11h electromcs 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F 
~~~--------------------------------------------~ 
'" .... 
)

..:.. J 

'7.-
--~--~-----~--­
. ! 

The Observer Tuesday, February 5, 1980 -page 4 
For weekday rights 





SMC girls seek trial parietals 
by Mary Leavitt StaffReporter 
A group of 5 girls has initiated a petition for weekday parietals to be granted on a trial basis to all dorms on the SMC campus. Ar chis poil}t, 798 students have signed rhe petition. This is 
5) percent of the approximately 1,430 students that live on campus. 
"We got the idea from a comment that Dr. Duggan made on a radio program which was printed in The Observer," said Maria Pasquinelli, a mem· ber of the group circulating the petition. 
The co'mment made· by Dug­gan, as printed in The Observer sra:ted ;~hat Duggan " ... was not against 'well thought out and cl<lJlrlY defined' proposals and eocouraged students to pro{.:eSS:· their suggestions thn)ugh the appropriate chan­nels -of'student government.'' 
The group has tried to adhere to these, guidelines, Pasquinelli said. Before the petition was circulated, the group determin­c:-d exactly what they would be; asking for in the way of parierals. 
The petition states char week­day parierals are being request­ed on a trial basis. The petition also specifies that the exact rime span of parietals would be determined by the administra­tion. The group suggested visit­ing hours be established be­tween 1 and 10 p.m. 

In addition, the group colla­berated on a list which stated t~e J?ros and cons of the Situation. 
There are a number of points which favor weekday parietals according, to Pasquinelli. She said weekday panetals would eliminate the need for Saint Mary's girls to leave the safety of their own campus in order to visit their male friends at Notre Dame. Weekday parietals would also eliminate a lot of the sneaking and subterfuge that goes on in dormitories. ·;;_ 
"Many people equate week­day parietals with sex ailP. parties," said Teresa Raphael, another member of the _grouf?, "This hasn't happened at Notre Dame, so I see no reason why it would happen here." .· · 
Naturally, if the proposal were to be carried out, it would present a few problems. Pas­quinelli feels that the two main problems are the security of the students and the question of who would be responsible for collecting I.D.'s from male visitors. 
"I'll be the first to admit that there are problems,'' said Pas­quinelli, "bur I feel that they can be overcome. For instance, 

FLY FROM SOUTH BEND TO FORT LAUDERDALE ONLY $189 
Complete package as low as $298 
Complete package includes 
round trip non-stop jet fare 
7 nights oceanfront hotel accomoda~ions and all taxes 
also available National Car Rentals 
DEPARTS 1VlARCH 29 RETURNS APRIL 5 for reservation information call Shaz 232-6831 or call t')ll-frl't: 1-800-S-'1~, :1 rr ·;.: :.·.· ·~ 

-----~.-.-.--_,..__ ... -. ............ , . r 
all male visitors would be 
escorted by girls. No males 
without escorts would be allow­
ed upstairs. This in itself is a 
good security method." 

The question of I.D. collection 
has remained unsolved up to 
this point. 

"I thought the R.A. on desk 
duty at the time would be the 
logical person to collect I.D.'s, 
but a few of them have shown 
resentment towards this idea,'' 
commented Pasquinelli. "A lot 
of people want the benefits of 
weekday parietals but none of 
the sacrifices which might have 
to be made. " 

Nevertheless, an estimated 55 
percent of on campus students 
at SMC have signed the peti­
tion. 

"We stood in front of the 
dining hall during two meals," 
said Meg Macias, one of the 
members of!.,the gro~p. "Al­
most everyone expressed posi­
tive feelings ··about what we 
were doing and signed. I'd 
estimate that only about 50 
people refused to sign. Most of 
the ones that wouldn't sign 
were either seniors who said 
they really dido' t care at this 
point or students who told us it 
would never work.'' 

Right now, the group feels 
that the only thing holding 
them back is a lack of funds. 
"We are really serious about this and want to do it right," said Pasquinelli. "We would like to circulate a survey among students regarding parietals. We would also like to contact other small, Catholic, women's colleges t? see how they ~andle ·the struarton. Bur those kinds of 
things take money." 

The group is planning to talk 
to College President Dr. Dug­
gan, Dean of Students Kathleen 
RiLe. Campus Ministry and 
variou~ other peoplt· and 
groups about their proposal. 
"We really want .this to work 
our in a way /that will benefit 
everyone -at least, we want 
people to starr thinking about 
it," said Pasquinelli. "The 
situation at LeMans can be seen 
as a result of the rules which 
this colege is enforcing at this 
time. People will just go wild at 
any opportunity.'' 

·'College is a time for maturity and growth,'' said Raphael. "We should be aHe to graduate from this college as well round­ed women. Are we actually achieving this goal by shelter­ing ourselves from the male contact each of us will be forced to face when we get out of here?" 
Whether or not the proposal 
goes through, the group feels 
that they have done a good job. 
"We have really tried to 
conduct this in a reasonable 
manner," said Pasquinelli. 
''That is the maio reason that 
we are\ asking for weekday 
pat•t·tals on a trial ba_sis only 
and .,, W' IIIH!; ro let adn~ini­
. ; 
,·_I' 
L . 
. ;'t· 

junior Tom 'Heil coordinates his planned lecture $en'es exa1ni'nmg thti draft. See story on page 1 and continued below.·· 
[Photo bj Phi/johnson.] 
• • . Diaft 

'Heil  said  he  has  received  ·  -- 
Hesburgh, Student Government,  ·  · · ari~  
Though Hesburgh will be out oftown, he gave  entided'  

Youth andthe Needs ofthe Nation, which is prefaced with a list of authorities on social justice. Heil said Hesburgh suggested a list of authors as potential speakers, however, Heil has since learned that they will all be unavailable the week of the 18th. 
Campus ministry is producing posters to publicize the series while Student Government has promised financial support for publicity. 
Heil said he was spurred to initiate the series when he realized how misinformed he was after talking to a law student who was vitally interested in social justice. Heil said he will announce definite times and locations this week. 

, , , Keenan 
[continued(rom paR_e 6J 

Conyers said he is proud of what his srudents have accom­plished and expresses his beli-ef that any hall could do the same. Keenan has already made con­tact with Sorin Hall, which 'hopes to sponser a Cambodian family that is presently living in Fort Wayne. 
Conyers said he sees Renew Inc. as the means through which Notre Dame could active­ly become involved in neighbor­
hood reclamation and renewal, thereby reducing the crime in these neighborhoods where off-campus housing exists. 
"Fr. Hesburgh continually stares, when you bring up the question af high crime rates, 'that's the real world. We can't do anything about that."' Con­yers said. "Quire the contrary! We can and must do something about it,'' emphasized Conyers with conviction. The primary motivators be­hind the srudenrs' desire to help Michael and Sharon to ."ur·h :~r1 unpresedenr'r>d degree. .,, .. , ' dw !'llc·J~.:ht"" hll,.,.j RcHll.; ,J Lirbar' l'lt;!'lg<·' pr"gr;t'i'" '1 :~.. ~ • . ! , : · ; · · ! '' :r! ... p•·t d 1) 
i',· 'l~l\t'' .1 :-!: ·v,·t ~~ '': ! ( 1i \._ .i ~ f'r. •· J~ ( t_ ·' I , l ·· ! ! , 1{} , • · 
dents. Thcst' expericnu·s w,·re, a~ Conyers -;tared, "profitable in terms ofcoming tu conscious­ness of values that we ought to be living by.'' From repairs to dealing with various agencies, the students "have turned their involvement into an educational experience.'' said Conyers. 
Although Michael a:nd Sharon nnw have a steady income and a home of their own, they have one more obstacle between them and a bright future -the 
courts..On March 19 a court hearing will. be held and a decision made whether to re· turn the chil~ren to. their pa­
• rents or rermmate Mtchael and Sharon's parental rights. It is Keenan's goal to have the house ready to receive the 
entire family on a long term basis, and at the same time, Renew Inc. will have completed the couple's horne ownership education. 
The futur;_. loob bright for Michael ami Shar"n. and C"n­\'<·rs LLtirn~ thai 11 ..,IJnws 111 tlu 11 -.; .. trl.!,-,:•. ,., ' .11.] ~mrli!IJ.: 
1 '' • • :·h.. ·· ~) • ·: ·, ~Jl I I ' 1 ~' 
I 1r (I
-~···j·l 

I · 1! ., , .II: 

't•it: 1;·,··~~ ,l I•'• .l li 'I >J0 
Editorial Hoard and Department· Mitnagers
i ;,,. iiC'W<, I.-. •dllc .1 · '• ··(>:and _,.., ,,hic-llt-'el~· ~-·· t'"··.t:,J, · .;" ·•ial.., ;: ·, · · •r -l•~o'j Rnseman· :viills .)f'uri!J l:.'duor ·Mark Perry repn·senr th<" opmwn <~i a rrnJOfli ~-of -~...,~~~;)!.;~; [._·dttor. Dian~ Wilson Features Editor Kathleen Connelly 
Rox Q Notre Dame, IN 46551l the Edironal Board. Commentaries. hdrtonal Editor. . . . ... Ann Gales Photo Edztor.. . . ... Doug Christian opmtons and letters are rhe vir>ws of Senror Copy Edrtor......... M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independem rhetr authors. Column space is avail­l:xecutrve News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Busmess Manager ...... ,. Steve Odland newspaper published by the srudems able ro all members of the community. News Editor.................... Mark Rust Production Manager ... John McGrath of the University of Notre Dame du lac and tht free expression of varying Neu•s Editor......... ....... Mike Shields .1dvertiszng Manager ......... Bob Rudy and Saint Mary's College. It docs not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC News Edztor ........ Margie Brassil Controlter......... ......... Kevin Manion 
Circulation Manager ......Greg Hedges 
necessarily reflect the policies of the .. encouraged. ~ 

, .•.• 


_ Tuesday, February 5, 1980 -page 5_ 
~sign playgrounds 





Class helps handicapped 
tients must be considered. It
by Tricia Beaujean ''Th(> center already has a: 
involves ingenuity with safety
StaffReporter playground but it is a b~si~, 
standard playground and 1t as a large factor to consider."
is 
Brach indicated that students 
A unique opportuf~:ity ~as useless to the handicapped,'' 
will be briefed further by
been presented to engmeenng he said. ''It requires de~terity 
faculty and hospital speakers ?n 
students in Professor Raymand and strength that those chtldren 
cost evaluation, present avatl­
Brach's "Theory of Design" often don't have." . . Fireman inspects damage at Augusta Hall . .S(ory begins on..__ class. The class is a require-The semester proJeCt m­able equipment ~n~ the capa­

bilities and restnctwns of the
page 1 and is continued below. [Photo by Phtl!tp Johnson] ment for Mechanical Engineer-volves a class of 85 students 
or patients.
ing and every year students are divided into groups of thr_e~ 
"Each team in the class must 
required to work ~n a s~lnester-four. The students hav~ Vistte;d 
submit a written and ,an oral
long project de';llmg. w1fh con-the site and met the residents i~ 
presentatio'n of their projects.
temporary engmeenng prob-an effort to evaluate t~e van­
Faculty and hospital personnel
lems. . abies with which they wtll have
• • .SMCfire 

This semester's class,wdl be to work. . will grade and judg~ the final 
products ' ' Brach said.
working on a project for ~he The constraints under ~hich 
The top three or four models
Northern Indiana State Hospital their projects must be designed
on," Haus~ann said. The rna-{NISH). The Direc~or~(NISH include a $4,000 budget, safety will be sel~cted and presented . 
[continued from page 1) jorirr. C)£1 other damage was approached the engme~g de-precautions with the handi-to the ·hospital. The project js · and the desk which it stood caused by water and smoke. partment with the 'l~ea of capped in mind, and the prob-due by the end of ~he semester the flre is still under investiga-The sprinkler system also having Notre Dame studen.ts lem of modifyin~ a 'playground but it ·is not certam when the tion. triggered in the room diret:tly design a ne~ playgrou_nd facti-to suit the handicapped. playground will be completed. · 
· According to firefighters, the below the fire, which also ity for handtcapped c~ddr~~. at Student Tom Wygle also ''The students seem enthus­sprinkler system smothered the suffered minimal water da-the Developmental Disabihues • pointed out that "mos~ of the iastic about the project,'' Brach fire. mage. Center located behind Logan ·patients at the hospital are, said. ~a' m lcind of excited and 
"Damage was basically ceo-.· Saint Mary's Security refused Center in South Bend, Brach ambulatory but future pros-· anxioUs to see what the stu­tralized in the area of the lamp to comment on the fire. said. pects of more ambulatory pa-dents come up with." 
----~----~--~.. --~~--------------~ 
Ihlnesbury 


THE LEADING NEWSMAGAZINE 
by Garry Trudeau 


AT THE LOWEST PRI~E. 
MffTTEflll.Y HOYT, H&lLO? M/1<8. H&'s WITH 
. ' 

Because you attend college you are eligible to receive TIME, the world's lead­ing newsweekly at the lowest indi­vidual subscription rate, just 35¢ an ·issue. That's BIG SAVINGS off the regular subscription rate of 59¢ an issue and even BIGGER SAVINGS off the $J.25 
newsstand price. And it's so simple to subscribe-just look for 
the cards with TIJVIE and : s ·, :s;er publioajo11s. ,,-.. ,;':.''l:::,ii,:-~. •,:·,1•_:-·c,_ 




.j 2 • .:~ r'·.ra''"f. ,_,,
!=:__ 1 ! .i. ~ ! ~ • '­
S~uth Bend, IN 46601 (219) 233-5298 


The Observer Tuesday, February 5, 1980 -page 6 

The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 
isinneedof~ Assistant 
Circulation Manag 
This position isparticularly suited to a sophomore Accounting Major 
Contact Greg Hedges 8661 

Keenan aids needy family 
by Laura Vasquez StaffReporter 

Last fall a couple approached Corby Hall seeking sheltet for the night. ] obless, homeless, and unable to receive aid from charitable organizations be­cause of their reputation as "agency hoppers," Michael and Sharon had just been separated from their children by the courts. That night they asked for and received a place to sleep. 
Today, Michael and Sharon have a steady income and a nine-room house to call their own, thanks to the time, money and conviction of Fr. Richard Conyers and Keenan Hall resi­dents. 
With the help of Renew Inc., a nonprofit agency founded in . South Bend several years ago, a home for the couple was found. 
1\enew Inc. buys old homes and receives rehabilitation grants from the government in order to renovate the buildings accor­ing to guidelines set down by building inspectors. These homes · are then offered to needy llld deserving families at a price they can afford, with low mortgage and a low down-pay­ment. 
The nine-room house chosen from amomg the 59 owned by Renew Inc. received a $10,000 grant. Keenan residents have since been painting, fixing win­dows, laying tile floors, and rewiring th~ entire house, a­mong other improvements, since returnin~ from Christmas break. This 1s all voluntary labor which is supervised by Conyers' father, "a lifelong craftsman," said Conyers. 
Renew Inc. is not, however, a charity organization. The fami­
by Michael Molinelli 
THIS /5 RIDICULOUS, ALL I'vE DONE Po~ n-.() DAYS 15 SNOW PLCMIN6 PoWN A 
BUNNY HILL 
I Flr£L LIKE GETTING uP 
1}¥: COORA0£ NJp TA,CI(LI~ 
ONE OF THOSE HUHIJNGOUS SLOPES ;LIXE CHUCK DID. 


ACROS!5 Gaucho's  26 28  Holy: Fr. Nectar  
6  weapons· Very large  29  gatherer Censure  
11  number Review of  31 33  Magnetic Working man  
troops  34  Mirror  
12  Printing mistakes  35  backing Racetrack  
14  Predicament  barrier  
15  Garden  36  Hun leader  
17  flower Spenser heroine  39  Showing good judgment  
18 20  Sea rover Unless: Lat.  43  Thank you, Henri  
21  River in  44  Atlas item  
Siberia  45  Convex  
23  Ohio lake  molding  
port  46  Gallic  
25  Rumen  friend  

Monday's results 


47 Old Testa-16 Downy duck 
ment book 19 Herring 50 Necessity sauce 51 Locality 22 Frigid 53 Deed held region 
by a bank 24 Musician 55 Follower: 27 And others: 
suff. Lat. 56 Chooses 30 Play by 58 Woman's Molnar 
hair 32 Estuary 60 Give an 33 Skin tone account of 35 Witty con· 61 Ralston or· . versation Rolle 36 Accumulate 62 Starchy 37 Frame of plants mind 63 Slackened 38 Short poem 39 Levantine 
DOWN ketch 1 Scales 40 Black-and­2 Mineral blue 
source 41 Sheen 3 Lighting 42 Colorado 
device park 4 Confess 44 Common 5 American people 
gurnard 48 Heated 6 Parlor argument 
piece 49 Brother of 7 Dogma Hengist 8 Parseghian 52 Web-like 9 Mild oath membrane 
10 Impassive 54 Antiprohi· 11 Cone-shaped bitionists 13 Take for 57 Elevator granted cage 14 Edible 59 Haggard seaweed novel 
TUESDAY 
FEB 5, 1980 
7pm-3am 
3 DRAFTS 
$1.00 
KAMIKAZEE'S 75¢ 
lies are required to take courses in home ownership and budget­ing so that they could manage their money and property in a responsible manner, "no mat­ter how meager the sum," explained Conyers. The final intent is for Michael and Sharon to buy their home from Renew Inc. These funds would, in turn, help to finance more h0mes and to help more mn=· . · Conyers recalls the despera­tion of the couple whose eight year marriage consisted of "ex­treme poverty bad breaks and
7
terrible luck.' Caught in the ''hellish circle ofpoverty;'' they were unable to properly care for their children. Their trailer home burned down. They were evicted from their low-rent apartment by a landlord who could get higher rent1 Their car, accordin~ to Conyers, was a heap of JUnk, sold by a dealer who takes advantage ot despe­ra.te people in desperate sJtu­auons. 
"You can see that being reduced to living from minute to minute is a hopeless situa­tion," Conyers said. 
When faced with Michael and Sharon's request for help, Con­yers said he saw three options: "Slam the door in their face; give them a few dollars and temporary aid, or help them to stabilize their lives and break out ofpoverty with their dignity and famility intact." 
Conyers and the Keenan Hall council and staff decided to help Michael and Sharon start a whole new life regardless of the, amount of time, money, or resources necessary. "We de­cided to make a very strong ultimate commitment. We fi­gured that we could, in fact, break them out of the circle of poverty," recalls Conyers. Mi­chael is currently working in Keenan in maintenance ser­VIces. 
Keenan residents have be­come committeed t~ the many aspects of the project. Many students returned from break with household items, clothing, dish~s. toy.s, and anything else a family of eight would need in a nine-room house. According to Conyers, the first question on everybody's lips is "How is the house doing?'' 
[continued on page 4] 
• • • Talk 
[continued from page 2] 
was a destruction of life it was unethical," Trueman said. 

Throughout his talk, Trueman emphasized that since Brown was born in July 1978, only three other test-tube babies have been claimed around the world. Two were born in Cal­cutta, the other claimed by Drs. Steptoe and Edwards, the doc­tors responsible for Brown. "Since July, 1978," Trueman said, "two more cures for 
· infertility have been perfected ­laser beam surgery to unblock the fallopian tubes, and fallo­pian tube transplants." True­man mentioned that the scienti­fic evidence is not available for inspection for any of the pa­tients and in vitro may not really be successful at all. ''Because only four couples have been successful at in vitro fertilization, in vitro may be only a cruel hoax, a manipula­tion by desperate couples,'' Trueman said . 



.. ·=---~~~ ~­"· .... .:.....t·:~ . ,.
,... ..:' .·· 


l 
.. 

Tuesday, February 5, 1980 -page 7
The Observer -Sports 
choose a college. guys were really nice, and Shadley is no longer the only ' "I wanted to continue play­having a brother on the team woman on the Irish swim team. 
Thomas wins 
ing sports, but my family helped a lot,'' reflected the All­This year there are a total of pomted out that if I went to America winner . four. However, the biggest 
Sullivan award
Notre Dame I might have to Shadley emerged as a solid difference for Shadley has not
. . . Shadley 
give up athletics because there competitor her sophomore year been the increased number of• was virtually no women's pro­and attributes her improvement women on the team, but the INDIANAPOLIS (AP)-­gram here at that time,"· offer­to a good deal of coaching by role the women now play in the Thomas, the first American to 
ed the Farley resident. her brother and a different team's success. win an all-around medal in 
Shadley finally choose Notre

[continued from page 8] 
Dame for academic reasons and 

teams. Then we got a trampo­P,Ut diving out of her mind. Her 
line in our back yard and I desire for athletic competition
started thinking about diving." compelled her to consider join­
Her interest prompted her to ing the men's team. attend a summer diving camp "I had a brother who was a when she was 12. The camp senior diver at Notre Dame. My was run by 1972-Olympic family thought it would be nice diving coach Ron O'Brien. to have us on the same team, so 
"He really helped me out a I decided to try out for the lot" explained Shadley "I men's team as a freshman and I wor~:d on diving eight hours a made it.'' day. How did Shadley react to 
The hard work paid off for being the only gtrfon the team? Shadley who went on to win the "It was embarrassing in the City diving championship for beginning. Coach Stark was three consecutive years. kind of nervous about the whole 
Shadley encountered a tough thing-he didn't know what decision when it came time to kind of suit to get me. But the psychological approach on her part. 
''Freshman year I never thought I was physically able to compete against male divers~! just didn't have the strength to do the difficult dives. So I realized my best chance was to do the simpler dives better. Female divers tend to be more .graceful-! tried to put that to 
mv advantage." 
·Shadley needed every advan­tage sfie could get. At times Shadley encountered a maleI female ratio of 250/1. 
"It's nerve wracking to com­
pete in a big meet against seven 
or eight schools and" be the on!} 
girl there.'' 
''At first I was thought of as world gymnastics competition, 
the only woman on the team. was one of the favontes last Now I feel that the guys night for the Amateurs Athletic consider me more of a team­Union's prestigious Sullivan 
mate since I can contribute in Award. th~ meets. " Thomas, 23, an Indiana State 
Shadley has accumulated two University graduate and a na­firsts, three seconds and a third tive of Miami, Florida, is now olace in Notre Dame's first six an assistant coach at Arizona meets this season. . State. • 
Shadley has set her sights on Last year's winner, teenage reaching the small college na­swimmer Tracy Caulkins was to tional again this season and present this year's award at the plans to continue diving her annual banquet at the Indain­senior year. apolis Convention Center Mon­
"It's been a whole new day night. experience for me," explained The Sullivan Award has been Shadley, "one that has definit­presented annually by the AAU 
ely enhanced my education at since 1930 to the nation's toP Notre Dame." amateur athlete. 
-
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m.. two days prior 
to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept 
classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. ro 5;00 p.m: All 
classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail.
Classifieds 

\ 

.. 
,; • ••• • ~-4 " • 
-t· ·. .. 
> -\ , '. 
.. . ·1 i ·. ; ~··.

l.,.,,;,.'..;.·..;.·..,·'.;,s·:~,··'.:::,·~...... ·-_;,:~-,;,;,;:.;;._...;;..;_;,..,._,;,.,;,-_ _;",.::.,_"_··...:·'......;,;;·.:~;.:·~=---·.:...~..2~;;,.SI".:.i:.._/_'"!.::..:'·;...:~_;;..~~:~Z:.....:·~:;::.;,·~-~..:,.:·.._.'f'-;:_~-...::-·~::.;;f_;;_;.~'-"--'-·:....~·...;·.._.,_'.z~~~.:::·~~;'I~·~····,:.:L;:.,·-'~.·~iii;·~'-;•·__:·_.~\__:_·..:..·_C:.__·:;:_:~;~::,:::· 1'·;.c:,;~-~O'.~<;..::_:,~;_
'.~-~-·;,..,._.;,;__..:.,._ .. ..~~----c>:~:L;·~-~,_::;~.,:~-"-:·--'.3 . ._,_-~:c':·:.:.;.r:;:~:;w,./~~~)·~~~&~~~~~:;~~,:~~t~••.-:·· 


Tuesday, February 5, 1980 -page 8 
Irish recoVer to sink Midshipmen writh Woolridge at the heltn 
by Paul Mullaney attempts. Navy, seven of 10 morrow,'' said Irish coach Dig­Assistant Sports Editor from the free-throw line did-not ger Phelps after last night's get one foul shot opportunity in game. "You'll see them Wed­
Notre Dame came back from the second half. nesday night against Manhat­an early Navy lead and did just tan." enough to hold on to a 67-53 "I thought we really played Center Orlando Woolridge victory in a sluggish ball-control aggessive defense,'' offered led the Irish in scoring for the game last night at the ACC. Hamiltion. "But the team that second straight time. He had 18 
The lead changed hands six is ahead has the advantage points (10-11 from the foul 
times before Notre Dame finally when the refs are calling a tight line), and was aided by 14 pulled ahead for good 11 min­game. points apiece form Tracy Jack­utes into the first half of action. "We were behind so we had son and Rich Branning. With Navy leading, 14-13, No­to play an aggressive defense, 
tre Dame ran off eight straight and we got caught on a lot of Freshman guard Dave points and ended up taking a fouls. Also, you have to shoot Broks, Navy's leading scorer, 34-27 margin into the locker­really well when you're out­also scored 18 points on the room. manned like we were. We evening. Forward Chuck 
didn't shoot well enough." Greene contributed 13 pointsAnother eight-point spurt at for the losers. the outset of the second half, Navy shot 44 percent from Navy's 53-point total was 
and Navy's tendency for fouling the floor--still good enough to the lowest output of any Notre allowed Notre Dame to pull top Notre Dame's 42 percent Dame opponent this season. ahead by as many as 18 pomts performance. The Midshipmen 
before the buzzer sounded. scored 23 field goals, compared ''I told the team before the 
''The first seven possessions to Notre Dame's 19. game that the service academy in the second half were very Notre Dame was without the reams play with a lot of disci­critical to us," said fourth-year services of juniors Kelly Tri­pline," said Phelps. "We ex­Navy coach Bob Hamilton. pucka an_d Gil Salinas, and pected them to play a controlled "We had too many turnovers sophomore Marc Kelly. Tri­game, and they did." 
right there. If we could have pucka was still resting his Notre Dame, 15-3 and ranked gotten a few quick buckets, we injured back, Salinas was nurs­eighth in the nation, will host could have been right in ing a sprained ankle, and Kelly Manhattan tomorrow night and there.'' was keeping off an injured calf North Carolina State on Satur­
muscle. day evening. 
While Navy committed seven ''Tripucka and Salinas will Navy evened its record at 9-9 more turnovers than the Irish, both be back at practice to-with the loss. the Midshipmen outrebounded and outshot Notre Dame. How­ever, Notre Dame took advan­tage of 30 Na(' personal fouls 
Runners perform· below par
and had 29 o 38 free throw 
in weekend competition 
by john Smith Eady, Bill Ribera, Jim Christain Sports Wn"ter and Rick Rogers took second
Shadley. • .piot:teer in diving 
place with a time of 3:29.1. The Irish track team demon­Kelly was disappointed in the by Kelly Sullivan A junior diver on Coach Dick swim team and also holds the strated a fine showing of medio­performance of the sophomore 
Sports Wn"ter Stark's squad Shadley appar­distinction of being the first crity this past weekend which Eady. ently found compeurion an woman to win a monogram in will luckily not affect the record 
Ask any athlete-most will incentive, one which enabled that sport. books. After traveling to Cali­"I expected a better leg out of admit the transition from high her to make history in the "I always loved competition" fornia and New Mexico, the Jacques; he ran slower than I school senior to college fresh­waters of the Rockne Memorial. stated :Shadley ''As a child I two-mile relay team could post anticipated he would. He has to man is a difficult one. Stand­Shadleybecame the first wom­played on all kinds of sports no better than third and fourth learn just how talented he could outs and stars face the uneasy an td ever compete on Notre place finishes respectively. In be. I'll have to talk to him and
(continued on page 7]

prospect of sitting the bench. Dame's traditiqnally all-male the meantime, their teammates work with him to convince him Some athletes find it discourag­\ could manage only one first that he can be great,'' offered ing to compere amidst a roster place finish in Kalamazoo, the Irish mentor. of returning lettermen, and Mich. at the Western Michigan The 1600 meter relay and the throw in the towel right there, Invitational. distance medley teams both
Belle fencers continue
content to rest on the laurels of That one first place came in finished in the fifth position. their high school career. -the triple jump competition, The Irish were a close third One of Notre Dame's varsity where senior Ahmad Kazimi after two legs of the 1600 but divers encountered just such a leap.ed 47-feet r.ine-and-a-half­fell behind in the third leg when 
to surprise opponents
situation as a college freshman. inches. Diabis had trouble with a spike After accumulating some pretty by Deirdre Grant season. Assistant coach Ed Kelly, who in his shoe. impressive statistics in high Sports W nler On Jan. 26, they defeated a accompanied the team to Wes­John Kuzan put the shot 49 school Shadley tried out and stron~ Case Western team, and tern Michi~an, was pleased feet, a personal best, but failed made Notre Dame's swim Though inexperienced would comptled another win on Feb. 2 with Kazimi's performance, if in his attempt to place among ream. best describe the Saint Mary's against Tri-State University. not a little surprised. the top five finishers in the shot­
Finding it difficult to dislodge Fencing team, it has by no Mueller, who coached fencing "I went to the mt>N expecting put competition. two returning senior divers meansdeterredthe squad on its at Indiana University, is pleas­two, no, actually only one win. Meanwhile, the Notre Dame from their positions Shadley's way to what could be a surpris­ed with what he has found in his I thought Perry (Stow) would two-mile relay team traveled freshman year was anything ingly successful season. Crip­first year of coaching the Saint win the pole vault. I also with Head Coach Joe Piane to hut impressive. Shadley failed pled with the unfortunate loss Mary's ream. expected a good performance the West Coast for a pair of to make the travelmg squad to ofexperienced fencers, coaches "Fencing is a good sport for by Ahmad,'' stated Kelly, '' but weekend meets. On ~riday, the any away meers and rarely Greg Mueller and Michael De small schools, as well as large" in Perry's second p.ttempt at 15 quartet was attempttng to re­placed in the home meets. But Cicco were faced with the said Mueller. "It doesn't re­feet he was gimpingand looked tain the title that they captured the determined diver wasn't challenge of rebuilding the quire an enormous budget, and terrible. When I asked him if he at last year's Los Angeles ready to throw in the towel. team. allows teams to fence against was injured he said, 'yes', so I Times' Indoor meet. They only 
"I didn't do very well, but I Coach Mueller reported that schools of all sizes.'' immediately pulled him out of turned in an average time of really enjoyed being on a the present team is comprised Mueller has had the oppor­the compenrion.'' 7:48. team," offered Shadley. of a group who, with the tunity to work with the women When asked about the senior "I felt that they could have 
So. Shadley dove again soph­exception of sophmore Susan and sees a great deal of co-captain's condition yester­won the meet," said a dis­omore vear. Same determina­Moore, have never fenced com­individual as well as team day Kelly said, "he is still not appointed Piane. tion, b~t far different results. petitively. Mueller stated that potential. After each match he good, but I hope he will be Their luck on the following day The Cincinnati, Ohio native all the girls were learning quire is careful to examine the perfor­better by Friday.'' Friday is the was no better as they could became the number two diver fast and he was pleased with mance ofeach girl, particularily Big State Meet in West Lafa­manage only fourth place in the on the team, earned a mono­the overall sense of competition concentrating on how much yette, Ind. Albuquerque ] aycees Meet in gram, achieved All-America among the team members. improvement she has shown. fhird place performances Albuquerque, NM. They fin­honors and, appropriately, was In their first meet of the year Mueller hopes all of the girls were turned in by Jim Christian ished with a 7:45 time. named most improved member the team of Louise Enyedy, participating in the program and Steve Dziabis. Christian A bright spot that Piane did of the Irish swimmers. Michele Strohman, Ann Hen­will return next year. Together ran the 300 meter dash in :35.8, see in the comretition was the 
A remarkable turnaround for drick, Eileen Mender and Tess with a pair of sophomores while Dziabis finished at 1:04. 5 performance o Chuck Aragon any athlete, but even more Weber battled the tough Clem­abroad this year he feels the in the 500 meter5. to Saturday's contest. "Chuck remarkable when you learn that son Tigers and were defeated team has unending possibilities The Irish sprint medley relay ran a 1:52.6leg which isn't bad; 
Shadley's first name is Betsy. 14-2, for their only loss this for the future. team consisting of ] acques in fact, it is pretty good.'' 





