-~----­
' ' ' 

VOLUME XIV NO. 66 an indt"pendenr srudem newspaper serving not-re dame and saint mary's FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 1980 

Soviet equipment in Afghanistan
. . . 
ratses ~ questtons on tacttcs 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The So­and Vietnamese forces. Gen. David Jones, chairman 
viet army has brought decon­And in testimony on Capitol of the joint chiefs of Staff spoke
taminating equipment 1nto Af­Hill month, Laotian last
last a of the TMS-65 winter in 
ghanistan, raising the possibili­refugee said his people were telling Congress of specially
ty that the Russians may be subjected to chemical warfare equipped Soviet trucks ''built to 
prepared to use chemical wea­attacks in which villagers suf­decontaminate personnel, ter­
pons against .rebel tribesmen, fered ''heavy bleeding from 
rain and equipment" rapidly.
U.S. intelligence sources said the nose, they could not stop Technicians said the TMS-65 
yesterday. their bodies from shaking, and uses a jet engine mounted on American specialists have no died in several hours." 
the back of a truck to propel way of knowing what this Tou Yi Yang, a member of the liquids that neutralize chemical 
means. The sources said, Hmong mountain tribe that agents.
however, it suggests that chem­supported the U.S. effort in the In discussing Soviet military
ical warfare may be used a­Vietnam war, told the House doctrine, Jones has said, "The 
gainst rebels and to clean up Asian Affairs subcommittee basic principle is to achieve 
affected areas so they can be that ei~ht villagers died in one surprise byusingmassive quan­
occupied by Soviet military attack tn 1977. tities ofchemical agents against
forces or Afghan government Some U.S. military specialists unprotected troops against
or troops. say the Russians may have equipment or on terrain to 
White House press secretary brought the chemical decon­deny its use."Jody Powell. asked about the taminating equipment into Af­Jones said all Warsaw Pact report, said he was "not in a ghanistan because this combat and support forces are 
position to comment on that equipment is normally assigned well equipped and realisticallyat this time." to many Soviet army units. trained ''to ensure their surviv­Last fall, U.S. intelligence Intelligence reports said a ability and to increase their officials, who requested anon­chemical decontamination truck operational effectiveness in tox­
ymity, expressed strong suspi­called a TMS-65 was seen with ic environments.'' cion that the Soviet Union a Soviet army unit in Kabul, the U.S. Army officials have de­provided chemical weapons re­capital. The reports said vari­scribed the Soviet Union as portedly used in Southeast Asia ous other Russian army support having ''the largest lethal against Laotian tribesmen re­vehicles in Kabul were outfitted chemical war-fighting capabili­sisting communist Pathet Lao with chemical protective gear. ty in the world." 
On the other hand, Army 
officials have testified, the U.S. 
·deterrent to chemical attack 
''consists of aging or obsolete 
chemicals stored m bulk or in 
deteriorating munitions.'' 
Afghan government


expels journalists 
They said the Defense Depart­
ment's objective is to improve
KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) -correspondents return their protective measures and equip­Students gather school supplies for the new semester. The Soviet-backed government passports. ·The Americans ment for U.S. forces. [photo by Tim McKeogh] yesterday ordered American refused, and summoned U.S. --------------·---­
------~-­
journalists out of Afghanistan, Embassy officials who then met accusing them of biased report­with the officers at the hotel ing and ''interference in the and said afterward there had country's internal affairs." been "a misunderstanding" 
The expulsion order, relayed that would be cleared up 

NLN accredits school 
through the U.S. Embassy Thursday. · here, goes into effect tomorrow. A scuffle began when one of It came three days after Iran the officers tried to shield his 

by Mary Leavitt "We are very happy with the ''They were open and honestordered American journalists face from television cameras. 
StaffReporter outcome of the review,'' said with the board members. Thefrom that country. The Iranian An overzealous young Afghan Dr. Mary Martucci, chairman of reviewers were very impressedorder also is effective tried to help by tossing a Saint Mary's School of Nurs­the Nursing department. "We by that. Also, SMC as a whole
tomorrow. blanket over the officer, who ing has received initial accredi­received the accreditation for a showed support and acceptance 

(In Moscow, the Soviet news had to punch his way free and agency Tass quoted an Afghan had his cap knocked off. tation from the National League period of •eight years which. is ofthe program as did the clinics 
Council of Nursing after an extensive the longest amount of time they and hospitals of South Bend
Revolutionary decree review conducted in October. will give accreditation to a

as saying "phony" American (continued on page 12] where the girls work." 
correspondents were school before putting them up Although she will hardly admit 
"practictng in fabrications and =-==============-=====for review again. This is really it, Martucci must be credited in insinuations, one being more an honor for us.'' part for the successful review. absurd than another. Their aim 14 injured Historically, accreditation As chairman of the Nursing is to step up tension in our from the National League of school since its institution in country, disrupt the normal life Nursing has been hard to come 1973, she planned the nursing of the Afghans.'' by. In the past 15 years, it has program with the development
Bomb explodes in train 
"We cannot but qualify the become even more difficult. of young people in mind. With activities of the above­BELFAST Northern Ireland (AP) -A bomb blast ripped Only five or six percent of the the opening of the school, she mentioned journalists as one car ofa commuter tram as it rolled throu~h the Belfast suburbs nursing programs up for review set up an organizational plan flagrant interference in the at yesterday's evening rush hour. Police satd three persons were each year are awarded accredi­with certain goals she wished affairs of the sovereign state of killed, and official sources said two were believed to be IRA men tation. the school to achieve. One of Afghanistan. That is why the transporting the device to Belfast. "Fortunately for us, the Board these goals was a failure. Revolutionary Council has Officers said at least 14 persons suffered serious injuries. ''I know this is going to sound
of Review was very impressed
taken a deciston to expel the Sources said . it was believed Irish Republican Army bombers with our nursing school,'' said ridiculous considering that this American journalists from intended to detonate the device at Belfast's central railroad school has been open for 6
Martucci. ''They read their 
Afghanistan," Tass quoted the station. sears and we were lucky to get
report to us on the day they left. decree as saying.) ~ Bombs were found on two other trains before they could explode. Although it usually takes one to accreditation in view of that, 
Almost all of the 50 or 60 One of those was taken to a platform at Greenisland, north of b,ut I wanted to get the accredi­
one-and-a-half hours to read a 
American journalists now in Belfast, where it exploded. Early reports said there were no report, it took them two-and-a­tation last year,' ' Martucci Kabul, the Afghan capital, injuries. laughed. "Fortunately, we
half hours to read ours. They
arrived in the past three weeks -The third bomb found on a train in Belfast's York Road station did were able to do it this year.''
said· they had written more
after the Soviet Union sent up not go off. The accreditation itself is a
about our program than they
to 100,000 troops into Afgham­''We fear this could be a concentrated attack on the system by the had ever written about any sign to the public that the stan to try to put down a IRA (Irish Republican Army),'' a spokesman for Northern Irish other program.'' nursing program at SMC is rebellion by Moslem Afghan Railways said. recognize&as a quality program In Martucci's opinion, several Most of the
guerrillas. The explosion shattered the middle car of the three-car 5:40p.m. be nursing l\eers. Afghan army officers went to train carrying mostly office workers from Lisburn, 10 miles south factors contributed to the suc­top graduate schools in nursing the Intercontinental Hotel on · of Belfast, to their homes in the capital. cess of the review. require that their students 
Wednesday night and ''First of all, the students demanded that the American 
deserve thanks," he said. 
[:ontinued on page 12) 
.-' _

-'"-·=-~. ----~---~ J.( _ ...... 



.............-..---::.-·· .... ··-·:-:-.............:-~:::.;---....--... -----·---·-----.-...........-_.... ---.,...________ ·-··-------------·---.... -·--·-----·-.. __ ... ------..----:::-..---...:: 

News in·brief 
Friday, January 18, 1980 -page 2 
Ex-Beatie becomes 
grass-shopper 
TOKYO (AP) . Narcotics agents questi~ned Paul McCartney yesterday about the half-pound of marijuana he allegedly brought into Japan, then officers led rum past a crowd of shouting fans to his second night in jail. The 37-year-old former Beatie was a~rested .Wednesday. shortly afrer he arrived at Tokyo Internattonal Airport at Na~Ita for. a concert tour which now has been cancelled. Officials said customs officers found 2.19 ~ram.s, or 7. ~ ounces, .of marijuana in plastic bags tn his suitcase dunng a routt~e inspection. He is said to have told them the drug was for his personal use while in Japan. More than 200 fans shout.ed "Paul! Paul!" as McCartney came out of the narcotics control investigator's office to be returned to the To~yo jail. He responded with a wave and ''Hello.'' Some of his young female fans burst into tears and called out: ''Why did you betray us? We've been looking forward to your concerts." McCartney and members of the group "Wings" had been scheduled. to give 11 concerts in Tokyo, Osaka and ~agoya from Jan. 21 to Feb. 2. The Tokyo newspaper sponsonng the concerts Yomiuri said 100,000 tickets had been sold. McCart~ey' s ] ap~nese agent estimated that $1.8 million would be returned to ticketholders. 

Gold price spirals, 
breaks 800 dollar mark 
NEW YORK (AP) · Gold prices zoomed past $800 an ounce for the first time ever yesterday' as buyers surged to the precious metal. The new mark came just two days after the metal first passed $700. The $800 price was hit at New York's Commodity Exchange in trading .for gold to be delivered this month. It rose to $803 early tn the afteruoon before slipping back to $801. "It'::: absolutely nuts," said a trader at Republic National Bank in New York. The surge came after prices had fallen in early trading as many traders took profits. The New York price dropped as low as $715, down from $744 Wednesday. 
Santa Barbara police continue strike despite order 
SANTA BARBARA, Calif. (AP) -Striking police prepared 
an a_epeal Thursday of a judge's back-to-work order, and 
shenffs deputies moved into the seaside city in the face of 
rising crime. 

The Santa Barbara County sheriff stepped up patrols to try 
to compensate for the 2-week-old strike by 140 officers in a 
wage dispu.te. But he would n~t sa~ ho:w many officers were 
on t~e job tn the Southern Caltforma city of 75,000. 

Weather 

~:gh~day·i~~he u.l?per 30s, Fair tonight and partly sunny tomorrow. Lows tomght in the upper teens to low 20s and highs tomorrow in the mid 30s. 
,r 
,
, 
Friday,January 18,1980

r 
7 pm MEETING anderson's campus campaign 321 FLANNER 
' r r 
, ~ 
7:30pm HOCKEY nd vs colorado college ACC. :':30 pm BASKETBALL nd women vs st. ambrose college 
' 
Ace. 

-:-, 9:30. 12 pm MOVIE "superman," ENGR. AUD. 
Saturday, January 19, 1980 
· 1 pm WRESTLING milliken, wabash & washington u. ACC AUX GYM 3:30pm BASKETBALL ND VS UCLA 7, 9:30, 12 pm MOVIE "superman," ENGR. AUD. 

7:30 pm HOCKEY nd vs colorado college ACC. 
Sunday, January 20, 1980 1 pm BASKETBALL nd women vs st. louis u. ACC. 2-5 pm RECEPTION works of douglas kinsey ART GAlLERY 


Scientists predict longer life span 
ATLANTA(AP)-Thehuman life span has increased dramat­cally in the 20th century be­cause of the spectacular success of disease control, but the next 20 years likely will bring. little improvement, says an assistant director of the National Center for Disease Control. 
· The reason is th~t tod.ay's top killers are not tnfecttous di­seases but accidents, violence and chronic illnesses. Future changes in human life span are going to have to come about through changes of poor human habits -drinking, smok­ing, stress and just plai'? hard living, said Dr. Donald Mtllar of the CDC. "Preventing deaths due to these problems will require th<' simultaneous reduction of sev­eral health risks over long periods of time, dearly de­manding a much greater com­mitment of both the individual and the community," said Mil­lar in a recent interview. The improvement in life span since the turn of the century has been stunning. Studies show that a child born in the United States in 1900 could expect to live 47 years. Today, the average is 73 years. "This dramatic increase of 25 years was achieved by reducing the risk of dying during infancy and childhood through environ­mental sanitation, immuniza-
Elkhart High presents concert 
Th~rc will be a meeting for anyone interested in playing lacrosse this spring on Tuesday at4:30 p.m. in room C-15 ofthe ACC. 
The Observer. 
Night Editor: •Margaret Kruse Asst. Night Editor: Dierdre Murphy Copy Editor: Mike Shields Layout Staff Mike Monk Editorial Layout: Ann Gales Sports Layout: John Smith, Chris Needles, Tom Schuster Typists: Carol Cornwall, Bill Swift, Carol Shuback, Liz Huber EMT: Mary Beth Budd, Kim Convey Proofreader: Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor: Patsy Campbell SMC Day Editor: Kathy DamaPico Photographer: Tim McKeogh Guest Appearances: 8 lb. 8 
oz. Rachel Lewis!! 

The Obstrvtr [USPS a 1211) It published Mondly through Friday ex­cept during mm and VICI1*I ....... The Observer Is Pllblilllld lly till students If Nlllrl 011111 IIIII Slillt
Mal!:'""· SlllllcriptiiRIIIIIJ Ill 
PI' .. S2D per ,.., ($11 per IMIIItarl from The Observer, 1'.0.1111 o. Nttrl ba1111. llldlua 4115111. 5.-1 
ella postqe paid, Ntlrl 011111, ln­dillll·«i55&. 
The Observer It 1 llllllllltr If till Aaodltld "'-· All .......... rigllts lrl ......s. 
tion and improved nutrition,'' Millar said the real pleasure in Millar said. disease prevention is watching 
In that same period,. life "nothing happen." expectance for adults increased And right now, there are no only sli~htly. In 1900, a 45-year epidemics of polio, no epide­old white male could expect to mics of smallpox, no epidemics live to age 69. In 1976 a of cholera, no epidemics of 45-year-old white male could leprosy and no epidemics of expect to live to 73, only 4.5 malaria. Measles, which once additional years. • affected almost everyone, is 
"The highly touted lengthen-now close to extinction. ing oflife span for Americans is But other killers are on the largely due to prevention, not loose. cure," Millar said. One study lists these leading 
As an example, as late as 1960 causes of death in the United epidemic poliomyelitis swept States in 1976: heart disease, the United States every sum-cancer, stroke, influenza and mer. By 1970, as a result of pneumonia, accidents, car acci­mass immunization campaigns, dents, diabetes, cirrhosis of the the incidence of poliomyelitis liver, arteriosclerosis and sui­was so reduced that the total cide. numlJer of cases could literally Most of those are brought be counted on the fingers of two hands. 
[continued on page 11] 

an 
Sunday Masses 
at 
campus 

Sacred Heart Church
miniStry 

5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:00a.m. Sunday Rev. Michael McCafferty, C.S.C. 
10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. John Fitzgerald, C.S.C. 
7:15p.m. Vespers Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. 

SMC Little Theatre Sun. U Mon. Jan. zo U Zl 7:50·9:50pal 
invites all members to a 
Sugersmoker Weekend 
Saturdgy, 3:30pm Irish vs. UCLA Sunday, 3:00pm 
Super Bowl XIV 
WATCH all the action on our new BIG SCREEN T.V. HAMBURGERS 
REFRESHMENTS 

Members_-FREE Guests: $2.00 (only at K of C Hall) 




The Observer Friday, January 18, 1980-page 3 



Carter seeks to end boycott 
Former ND professor testifies in Pinto trial 
WINAMAC, Ind. (AP) -A puff of fire came from the fuel rank area of a Pinto automobile before it exploded, killir:tg three teen-agers, three eye~ttnesses testified yester_day m. ~~rd 
Motor  Co.'s  cnmmal  habtltty  
trial.  
The  auromaker  is  charged  

with three counts of reckless homicide in the August 1978 crash, in which_ the Pinto was struck from behmd by a van on a north~rn Indiana highway. The state ontends Ford knew Pinto fuel tanks were lik~ly to explode in rear-end colhstons but sold the. cars anyway. 
''There was a puff of flame about 12 to 18 inches at the left rear of the smaller car, and then the whole thing was engulfed in flames," said Alfred]. Clark, a retired carpenter and former Taylor, Mich., resident now living in Florida. "It was like a large napalm bomb going up.'· 
The fuel tank was located at the left rear of the 1973 Pinto. 
Clark, who was driving in the oncoming lane, said he could see "nothing bur flames" inside the car. "It was just a great big ball of flames " 
Clark's wife, Pauline Clark, told the Pulaski Circuit Court jury that ''moments after the flare, the whole car just exploded . . . It was burning terribly." 
William J. Martin, a former University of Notre Dame professor who also was driving along the highway at the time, said, "I saw a bright flash of flame coming from the rear of the Pinto. Almost instantly, the Pinto just exploded.'' 
He said the explosion sent flames at least 20 feet into the air, spraying his car with debris, and appeared to be followed by a second blast. 
Martin and Clark gave differing accounts of how fast the van and the Pinto appeared to be traveling. 
The defense has said the car was almost stopped on the highway and the van was traveling 50 mph and that the difference in speed was a primary cause of the explosion. 
Clark estimated that the car was going 30-35 mph and the van 40-45 mph, adaing, "The force was not all that terrific as far as I could tell.'' He conceded under cross­examination, however, that it was "impossible to know what their speeds were. I wasn't driving their vehicles." 
Martin estimated that the van was going 50 mph and the car about 15 mph. 
Testimony was interrupted several times and the jury removed from the courtroom after objections by Ford attorney James F. Neal. 
Outside the presence of the jury, deputy prosecutor John Ulmer told Judge Harold R. Staffeldt that Clark would testify that one of the girls killed in the crash was badly burned and had one leg caught in the car but was still alive and asking for help. 
Ulmer said the testimony was necessary to prove· that "the speed of impact was not great enough to cause traumatic injury,'' but Staffeldt refused to allow that. 
At another point with the jury out of the courtroom, Martin said he "saw a woman supporting herself on her arms on the ground beside the car. She was incredibly burned. I was shocked that a human being could be so incredibly burned and still be alive.'' That testimony also was disallowed. 
MASS follow-ed by
supper 

every_
FRIDAY 

at the 


if the ILA would honor Carter's request. the ILA's 80,000 dockworkers have been refusing to handle Soviet cargo since Jan. 9 at ports on the East and Gulf coasts and at key inland loca­tions. West Coast dockworkers are represented by another union, which is not participat­ing in the action against Soviet cargo. 
.Administration officials said the ILA boycott has brought con~estion throushout the gram transportatton sr.stem, clogging barges and ratlroads and leaving grain elevators choked full. 
As a result, the officials said, the boycott is starting to hurt American farmers who are un­able to ship their products to market. 
Gleason, whose union also is boycotting Iranian ships, an­nounced the Soviet boycott after Carter announced a partial embargo offuture grain sales to the Soviets. 
The ILA, whose members long have been fervently anti-com­munist, had boycotted Soviet shipping for 21 years until !ifting its ban in 1972. 
Bendix offers 
ski lessons 

Cross country and downhill ski lessons are available at Bendix Woods County Park. Trained and experienced instructors are on hand to teach you, your family and friends the basics or to improve and refine your skiing talents. During the holiday weeks, ski instructors are available all day, every day for your convenience. After the holidays, cross country ski classes are available on Saturdays and Sundays as well as our special "Learn-to-Ski" classes on Wednesday after­noons. Downhill ski instructors are available at 6 pm on weeknights and all day on weekends. Lessons can be arranged for lar~e groups, families or private mstructions. 
Bendix Woods County Park is located just 12 miles South Bend on State Road 2 and has full snowmaking lities. There may be grass in your backyard possibly 20 inches of snow on the slopes. Call 654-3155 daily snow conditions register for group lessons. 
These two students get a head start on their homewor/4 between classes. fphoto by Tim Mt-Keogh) 





THE OBSERVER 


needs advertising salespeople 
-no experienceneeded -liberal commissions -unlimited opportunity 
For more information contact Mike Holsinger, assistant ad manager, at 7471 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Carter yesterday urged the president of the nation's dockworkers union to end a nine-day boycott of Soviet ship cargo, which Carter said is snarling transportation in this country, sources said. 
White House sources said Thomas Gleason, president of the International Longshore men's Association, did not pro­mise Carter to end the boycott, but said he would reply prompt­ly after consulting with his union. 
The ILA boycott has prevented the shipment of 3 million metric tons of grain J?reviously committed to the Sovtet Union, the sources said. 
Carter announced on Jan. 4 that he was halting shipment of 17 million metric tons of wheat and corn to the Soviet Union in retaliation for the Soviet Union sending troops into Afghanis­tan. However, Carter said he would allow the sale of 8 million metric tons of grain to proceed. 
The dockworkers' boycott has been blocking shiP.ment of a portion of that 8 mtllion tons. 
One administration official said Carter, "speakins as presi­dent and commander-m-chief,'' said "that the abrupt stoppage of all grain shipments was contrary to our national inter­ests, that it was clogging the pipeline, interfering with nor­mal commerce and was un­fair to the farmer." 
''He asked their cooperation in unclogging the pipeline and Gleason said he would have to go back and talk to the mem­bership." said the official, who asked not to be identified. 
Among those attending the mid-day meeting was Thomas Donahue, the AFL-CIO's new secretary-treasurer. Neither Donahue nor Gleason indicated 


254 DIXIE HWYI NORTH ROSELAND, II ELKHART, II SOUTH BEND, II 
(NEXT TO McDONALD'S)
212-2522 233-4603
295-6310 

Gordon's Stllgram~ with theVodka~1 
U.S. Patent. 

1Crown 
99 


~-_....-···~-...--·-·---·--·· __ ___ _._......______________~_... ______________~. ------.....,.,..,..~..,..,..,................. ..__._..... ·---... --..-.... -....-... ----­
... -------­
\ 

L..-------------------------------~---------­

The Observer 

Sophomore Mark Davis displays his favon"te Christmas present. [photo by Tim McKeogh] 
Ties inflation 
Incotnes inc1~: ..se 12% 
WASHINGTON (AP) -If it hadn't been for rising taxes, Americans would have finished 1979 in a virtual draw with inflation, Commerce Depart­ment figures showed yesterday. The Commerce Department said total personal income in­creased 12 percent during the year and was at an annual rate of$2,022. 5 billion in December. 
The increase nearly matched the rate of inflation. 
At the same time, Americans' saving rate fell to a 30 -year low. 
Meanwhile, the Commerce Defartment said housing starts fel 14 percent last year, al­though they surprisingly edged upward in December. 
A total of 1,742,500 new housing units were started dur­ing the year, down from 2,020,300 tn 1978. The decline was expected as a consequence of the government's actions to raise interest rates as part of its campaign to control inflation. 
However, there was a 0.3 percent increase in December to 1,527 ,000, although building permits continued their down­ward slide, dropping 5 percent to 1,204,000 untts. The figures were at seasonally adjusted annual rates. 
While overaH income in­creased last year, taxes rose at a faster rate, up 15.8 percent. The result was that after-tax income increased only 8. 7 per­cent, which trailed the rate of inflation. 
The figures, contained in the government's year-end report on personal income, illustrate how inflation slices into income in two ways, once through higher prices and again through higher taxes. 
The tax increase occurs be­cause Americans· demand more income to keep pace with rising prices. But as incomes rise, Americans are automatically pushed into higher tax brack­ets, so that a greater share of their income goes for taxes. 
Social Security taxes also in­creased significantly during 1979. 
Relief from this jump into higher tax brackets could be provided in a tax reduction. However, President Carter has decided against recommending a tax cut in the 1981 budget he will send to Congress on ] an. 23. 
Per capita income, after sub­tracting taxes, was at an annual rate of $7,653 in December, an increase of $614 from a year earlier. Per capita ta;x pay­ments wqere $1,357, an in­crease of $175 . 
Americans obviously drew on their savings to maintain their living standards as the savings rate fell to a 30-year low of 4.5 percent of income. That was the lowest since 1949 when it was 3.6 percent. Savings were 
4.9 percent of income in 1978. 
The savings rate in November was 3.3 percent, the lowest for any month since the depart­ment began keeping monthly figures in 1959. 
Although the figures weren't complete, it seemed likely the savings rate fell even further in December since spending in­creased and savings were down. 
The Commerce Department said prices increased 0.6 per­cent in November, the last month for which its figures were complete, compared to 0.8 percent in October. The Labor Department's Consumer Price Index had recorded price in­creases of 1 percent in each of the two months. 


Governments support moving Olympic games from Moscow 
LONDON (AP) -British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher to­day declared her government's support for moving the Olympic Games from Moscow in retali­ation for the Soviet intervention in Afghanistan. 
Carter administration officials say they are considering the idea of trying to shift the Olympic site as an alternative to boycotting the Games. A boycott has found little official favor among the NATO allies. 
Canadian Prime Minister Joe Clark was the first Western leader to call publicly for mov-. ing the Games from the Soviet capital. 
1 Urban Plunge reflections 
due today 

Students who made an Urban Plunge over the Christmas break are reminded that their typed reflection papers are due by 3 pm today. 
Please bring the original and one copy to the Center for Experiential Learning, Room 1110, Memorial Library. 
Mrs. Thatcher told the House ofCommons that-Britain should act with its allies in an ap­proach to the International Olympic Committee, which would have to make the deci­sion on changing the site. The president of the IOC, Lord Kill­anin, has insisted that the long­planned Moscow Games must 
_go on, · Mrs. Thatcher said her gov­ernment "believes it would be right to try to move the venue 
away from Moscow." 
''We cannot just stand back and see the Russians doing what they have done in Afgha­
[continuedon page 13] 
In Addition to Our Regular Menu 
THE BOAR'S HEAD IS PROUD TO ANNOUNCE 
Its All New 

"SUNDAY CHAMPAGNE BRUNCH" 
All Dishes Served with Mixed Fruit, Breakfast Potatoes, Hot Fruit Muffins and All the Champaf;ne You can Dnnk. 
$5.95 

Brunch Available Benveen 
12 noon and 2:30pm 
CAU FOR RESERVATIONS 
272-5478 ~!~BJ 
• 
-Bttoalc aS"'"'t" 
U.S. 31 North, South 

1 1 
1 
,1 
1 
, ~ 
1 ~ 
,1 
,1 
WANTED:  
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGERS  
The SCHOOL OF URBAN and PUBLIC AFFAIRS at  
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY offers a two  
year program designed to prepare future leaders for  
professional service in the expanding area 1>f11  .....  
management of public policy.  
Career opportunities in this critical area are  
expanding faster than in most other fields. They offer  
great challanges for innovative approaches to public  
sector management using modern quantitative  
methods. SUPA's problem-solving orientation offers  
diverse careers to aspiring public managers.  
*SUPA has had a 100% PLACEMENT RECORD  
since its first graduating class in 1972.  
Rosanne Salerno  
School of Urban & Public Affairs  
Admissions Office  
Carnegie-Mellon University  
Margaret Morrison Bldg., Room 110  
Pittsburgh, PA 15213  
FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE FILL OUT AND RETURN THE FOLLOWING COUPON  
NAME---------------------------------------------­ 
ADORE~------------------------------------------­ 
CITY ---------------------STATE_____ ZIP _____  
UNIVERSITY/COLLEGE ______.,<_______________________  
MAJOR ______________________________OEGREE-----­ 
DATE OF GRADUATION ____________.....;...,___O.P.A. _____  
SOCIAL SECURITY NO.  


The Observer Friday, January 18, 1980 -page 6 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
1-U-80 

Main Bulldlnc 
JOI INTERVIEWS AU OPEN TO SENIORS AHD CRADUAT! SnJOENTS IN ntE HAY AND AUGUST CLASBU .• ,., AHY WHO IHTDfD TO HAVE lNTfiVIEWS I«<ST HAVE A COHPLETED PMrfU: (I£CIIT'IATIOIII OH FILl At' TltE PI.ACEKEMT IUilUU.•....... Rf:CISt'RATlOM, lNTlllVlEW SIGN-liP SHQTS AHD DO'LO\U Llt'!JA­



Fuzzbuster challenges police 
BURLINGTON· Ky (~P): . The company that makes the Fuzz­buster brand radar detector is out to bust the fuzz in court, in a challenge to the police radar systems used to nab highway speeders. 
The contention is that police aren't properly trained to use the units. Last year in Miami, a judge ruled radar clockings could not be used as evidence against 80 accused speeders because of unreliable readings. A former police officer who is now a consultant to Electrolert 
Inc., ofDayton, Ohio, makers of the Fuzzbuster, testified yester­day that some police use radar units as playthmgs and can set them up as alarms while they sleep on duty. 
Former San Diego police of­ficer Rod Dornsife testified at a hearing in Boone County Court on a motion to supress radar evidence in a speeding charge againstJanice Lee, an Electro­len employee who claims she was wrongly ticketed by a Kentucky state trooper. 
It was the opening day of the 

·-------------------------~ 
I~ PINOCCHIO'S I I Pizza Parlor 1 
1 Georgetown Shopping Centerl
1 . I 

I WINTER SPECIALS I 
1--------------------~-----1I S2 OFF Sl OFF II any large ·pizza any small pizza I 

~-------------------------~ 
1 Good ]an. thru Feb. 1980 only I
INew Sunday hours V'iide Screen TV I II 1-lOpm Emmons Rd (') 1
1

IHAPPY HOUR oPi-"io'• t I I 4-6pm ~ z -1 L~!!.~!Y-~~.!_d!~--------~::r.:~:J 
current round of pre-trial testi­
mony in the case. Testimony 
conunues today. 

The makers of the Fuzzbuster 
contend a ruling in their favor 
to suppress the radar evidence 
would be a landmark and 
change law officers' use of 
radar throughout the United 
States. 

Ms. Lee, a Dayton resident, 
says she was driving about 55 
mph on Interstate 71 last July 
when her radar detector sig­
nalled the approach of a radar 
equipped patrol car. 

''I looked at my SJ?eedomoter, 
saw that I was nght at the 
speed limit, and started trying 
to figure out which pair of 
headlights might be the police 
car, " she said. 

She was stopped and ticketed 
on a charge ofgoing 72 mph. 
Dornsife testified that many 
patrolmen are aware of the: 
units' deficiencies--that the 
readings can be affected by 
radio signals. He said police 
sometimes issue tickets with 
charges th~v know to be inac­
curate. they _And he said patrolmen some­times play games with their radar units. A favorite game is to clock an airplane in flight and show the recorded speed on the radar unit to fellow officers as an exampleof':one that gotaway," Dorns1te sa1d. And he said police cruisers equipped with radar can be used as an alarm clock for officers who want to sleep on duty. 
TUR! AJlE IN IIOOH Zl], ADMIN. 8LDC. CC11PL£TE .II.KPLOUR SPECtFlCATlONS ON DEGREES, JOB TITLES, l.OCATlONS AIID CITIZENSHIP ARE LISTED ott nt£ ATTAOt£0 SHEETS FOft TltE FIRST WEEK or tMT!lVIEWS. SPRING SUPPUHENT TO THE PI.ACEMEMT twtUAL WILL a£ AVAIWL! AT ntE PLACEMEMT IUitf.AU DURING TilE WEEK OF JAMUAAY 21 FOR ALL lE.CISTEJ.ED STUDENTS. Pl.EASE PICic .!Jf YOUR OWN COPY. 
THI! SIGN-UP PUIOD lS FROM 8:00A.M. TO ~:00 P.M., HOtiDAY Tliii.OVCM TMURSOAY, B!CINMINC JAIIUARY 21 fOR lNTERVl£\15 THE Wf.EK OF JANUARY 211. PLEASE NOTE INTERVIEW LOCATIONS AT TIKE OF SIGli-UP. YOU MUST SIGN FOR YOUR IHTblVIEWS PF.RSONALLY. 
~~II 
IIE<'RUlTIMG 
AI., aA t:Ci SC 
Jon ZB IU 





~~~-1 

ill·! 
ID i ·I 
I' I I I 
I ' I i 
. ! . i 
• 
• 


I ' I I 
I I' !! /I
' I ' I
I ' I i
I I I"" I I I I ' 
· i I 

• 
. r~ .JI, OH; H.artlnlvlllr, lL; Ho~~&ton, TX; 

•por, 
\IY. S. Pen~. Re1. Vlaa. 


MAliNE HlDLAHD lANK 
1. lankin&. 2. I in Econ. All IL\. ), Han.lf.-nt AIIOC:Iatea Proaraa. 4. hew York City; B\IHalo, NY, poaalblc other N(l\; York St.:alo locat1on11. S. Pe.,., Ke11. Yiaa. 
OWENS~ILUNOIS INC 
1. Papar, PlaaUcl, Clau Paclr.qina. 2. a in A1. •nil BA. ], Entry lavel tralnlna pro&r-ln aal••· accouatll"ll, production and po..lbly pcrnonqcl. 4. All -Jor aco­li:r&Phlc:: are11a In U.S. S. CU1&enah1p r•qulnd. 
PACIFIC CONSULTING COIU' 
1. Cona\lltlnl Flra. 2. IIUi'ancl HJ.A, ). Hanaa-•nt Tralninli: Proar-. 4. Pn..rUy Indiana but vUl inter­view for other c011pany locationa. 5. Cltl&anahip nl)t 
r~tqulrrd. 

PERHIAfl CONSTR.UCTIJJI.S I INC 
1. Cnoral Contractor. 2. I in a:, KE. ). fhld Encr, Eatl•ator, Office Enar. 4. T••••· South•aataru 
TELDtET DIVISION Of CEOTEL 
1. Kan\luccuror cf lroadc::aauna EquiP'Mft'lt, ~. B in E! orauat.... with Enar back&round. J, Sal•• !nar. "· Travd include• Nld-•t -Hlc:hlaan, UUnoia, Wiaconlin, Louialana, Hilaourt and other •tat•• frga north to aouch. 5. Clti&cn•hlr roqulrod. 
U.S. AJJf'l COltPS OP I!HCJNEERS 
1. Enain..rlna. 2. 1M in CE. ). Civil !nar. 4. Chica1o, lL. ), Clthenahlp raq\lirod. 
UNITED TELEPHONE COHPANY OF OHIO 
1. Tdaphona Servicaa. 24]. I in Paych, Soc; all BIA; I in Sci; B ln CE, HE, EE, Math for Cuatc.er Service. a in EE, C.O.p Set, En1r Phyaica, H! for Matvork. B in Fin for Ac::ct or Fie. 1 1n KILt fer Kllrk•tlng. a in Journdl-or AdverUalnl for Public Rdationa. lo. HonaUeld, &icln•y, Liaa, Warren and Ht. Vernon, OH. ), Pctl'll. loa. Yi... 

"I •l 
I 
I I 
I
·I 
'. 


[·ifl 
. I I I 
I I
i I I I 

EHPl.OYUS: CKRONOLOCICAL 
FOR 
I.W 
Hal\ 

W. H. lltAD\' CO 
1. Adh..1v• and Graphica Ot..iury, 2. All IIA, ), lalua Train•oa. 4. ltow H.-,U.ir•l MUvaukee, WI; Morth carvUna, s. hrwo, a.a/ Yt... 
l·IYS!p!S. ECI OIYI5lON 
1. Dollllanur, L)cry~.rlopvr 41\d Prociuc•r of Sophiatte-ted, 
I I:~;!:;h::!~~~~ic:;~~D~~:-=. -=~~~ui~~.!~r 
I 
tric:al, Kac:haaicd ancl lnd~trt.al llq:n. "· lt. Paura­~~~~ra, FL. S. Cithcmahip "'quir.S. 
coDAL rooos CORP 
I 
1. leveraae an4 lraakfaat r~. z, I La HE, Cl, IU.IO, 
a.J. ]. Projoct arid lndlolatrlal Eaar. '· lettl• Cre•... 
Ml. ), Citiunahip nqutred. · 
lAUP'tWIM' s DEPAR'J!!!.HI nou: 
1. Dep.rt-nt ltor•· 2. All lilt.. I ln Ub. Art• with arroaa int•r••t in ntaiUna c.ar•r· ]. Merc:budiat.aa Tuiaina Prosr•. 4. Pituburah, PA. S. P•l'll· laa• Yi... 
owpS-ILLINOlS. INC 
1. Paper, Plaatiu, Claaa hclt..a&taa· 2. I in AL &Ad lA. ). tntey ln.l ualnlna Proar-1n ul... accouatift,, proclucticm .ad poeaibly puaonttel. •• All ..jor aaoar­,.,lc o~r••• ln 11.1. S~ Clrbeuhlp ,...ulrH. 
1. a.er. 2. I ln ME, U, IClO. All lilt.. ), lMu.trlal, Mechanical &Ad &lectric:al Kaar ,,..._,._.; Corporate "--.. MOt TulalnR hoar•. '. St. l.Mtla, )1), S. P•n· laa. YiN. 
W. H. IIADY CO 
1. Adheaho aacl Cupkiu O..htry. 2. All QA, ], lah• TraiAHa. 4, ._ "-PPhir•, Nilw....., Wl, lorth Carollu, S. r.rwo..... VlHe 
CHICAGO !OAAD Of T!AP' 
1. Futuna c.o-odity bcholnp:. 2. I la Acct. ], .Audl­t•n for taa.ioatioe Staff. 4. Ollc:... vldrl travel to lw York Ciry, ~tuNa atp, Ml.....,olU, lt.....i •. ), Pel'll. a.a. Yiu. 
DET!OlT loUQ( ' TRUST 
1. Pull Senic:• lankln~. ~. I ln £con. AU IL\. ]. Manaa~t Tnlaln& ProAOC"-· 4. Detroit • ts.tro on•... ). Pen. laa. Vi... 
N PO!D MOTOR COHPAMY 
1. o\\lto.ctUva. 2. KIA wich Yin bk1rd or concun. 
I ). 

Proc:••• IIMI1•tia1 and PIAnnlaa; Capital htv..cavrn / Maly•i•; Narkat and Prico Allal)'aia; Forward Produu
I.I :·::~::·::·:;!! .........,....... ......bo,.. . 
l'bar-c::aucic:ala. ~. HJI.o\ w1tk .._t or Pin concun or 
bk1rd. ), Pinudal Pl.annlna aftd Anal)'lh, Cor,orato lnt•mal ~ltlns, Accowaina Op.ratlon•, Flnanr.l.al
I IL 

j ;::!!::'"'';o!~ t~==.a~:h l:~:r::~;!::;~~~:~. ~';!;!:~•' 
I ..•••ret>, Narkotina, Ph.ar..ce~o~tical Salca. 4. ialea: Natl-lde. othar operation• ln hwUaMpolh, Ul; 
~M::·O:·~AHY 
. ;;o~!!~ ·~~~::.:!O::~t~ra!ho!",!;.~~.KE~~~Y ~iel&l
I 
H 


-~~-------------~­
The Observer Friday, January 18, 1980 -page 7 
Charismatic movement: A perspective on.faith 
''baptism'' is a turning point in 
by Tim Griffin 
their lives. They instst that 

Each summer the Catholic they develop a greater aware­Charismatics hold their annual ness of themselves and their convention in the University of relationship to God and a Notre Dame's football stadium. greater appreciation for the An individual who recently teachings of the Catholic witnessed a convention com­Church. Fr. Richard Roar, a pared it to a football game: leader of a Charismatic prayer ''... there were mobile homes, group in Cincinnati, Ohio, des­tailgaters, picnics, ... the cribed the "baptismal experi­works." The resemblance, ence'' as when '' ... a person though, ends at the gate. becomes tangibly and not mere­Inside the walls of the stadium ly ideologically aware that God, during a Charismatic conven­Himself, is calling him by name tion many religious experiences and extending him the offer of take place. More than 22,000 divine friendship." As reveal­Charismatics attended the last ed in the Bible '']ohn baptised late August convention. Those with water but you shall be who did attend said that indivi­baptised in the Holy Spirit'' dual enlightenment was evident (Acts,1:5). everywhere. Individuals (both Not all Charismatics believe religious and lay) praised God that the Spirit descends and through fervent prayer and then enters an individual. many cried openly as their Some insist the Spirit is already mental burdens were alleviated present in one's soul (resultant through the Holy Spirit. from the first baptism), upon 
The Catholic Charismatic Re­the second "baptism" the Spi­newal at Notre Dame holds its rit is simply released. Bro. prayer meetings on Tuesday John LeVille, a member of the nights in the Log Chapel. Notre Dame prayer group in­During the meeting a Mass is sists that the Spirit is released. usually said, however it is He noted that the Spirit can modified somewhat to enable only be released through an greater parishioner participa­''earnest desire and love for tion. After each of the readings God and His works." Through time is allocated so that the the release of the Spirit the parishioners can openly reflect individuals allow Him to influ­on the reading and add their ence their daily lives, in so own insight. In the Charismatic doing the Charismatics believe Mass there is much more that they live a fuller Christian singing and oral individual life. 
r-prayer than at a usual Catholic Notre Dame Charismatic Bro. 
1 
Mass. The Catholic Charisma­Don Morgan noted that: tics play down the ''... role of ''... the gifts one receives from extraordinary external pheno­the Spirit are many: wisdom, mena in favor of a deeper knowledge, self peace, prophe­interior union with the Holy cy and tongues. The latter two Spirit and a oneness with fellow are the dominant and most Christians in prayer and good expressive gifts of the Spirit. works.". The Masses which The gift of tongues are very take place at these prayer unusual; to exactly describe meetings generate an atmos­them is difficult. Tongues are phere which is truly evident of a verbal statements which many celebration. Charismatics believe to be the 
The Notre Dame prayer group language which God desires to is unusual in the sense that It be communicated with. One contains a large number of who has received this gift uses individuals who are members of it in his personal prayers to the religious community God. The Charismatic has (priests, brothers and nuns). A control over the use of the distinctive element of the Cath­tongues but he does not have olic Charismatic prayer groups any idea of what he is sayin~. is the "free-ness" of the the To one who is unfamiliar wtth meetings. As Fr. Edward tongues · they sound like a O'Connor, leader of the Notre collection of guttural utteran­Dame prayer group, said: ces. As Bro. Don Morgan ''The prayer meeting is a mode mentioned: ''The gift of of worship that combines the tongues allows an individual's utmost in freedom and com­prayers to God to flow ... when munity. Freedom: for every he ts at a loss for words in his partictpant is free to pray in own language he resorts to whatever way he likes provided tongues.'' he respects the demands of love The gift of prophecy is an and faith. Community: for informative gift for the Charis­people are there to pray toge­matics. Through prophecy one ther simultaneously.'' Besides is able to reflect and add insight the individual prayer which to the teachings of Christ and takes place throu~hout the the Church. As one Charis­meetin~, there are ttmes when matic author put it (prophecy): the enure community prays for " ... is not a revelauon of new a specified idea. During the truths but a message of exhor­meetings there is an intense tation and encouragement to communal spirit. As Fr. those gathered." Prophecy O'Connor described it: ... a enables the Charismatics to sea of liquid love ... which dis­establish and reinforce their solves the protective walls and relationship with God. Through the masks behind which people this gift they believe that the hide .... " community as a whole (because 
Through "Baptism in the Holy it is exemplified at prayer Spirit'' the Charismatics are meeting) benefits and thus they able to develop a close relation­lead "more" Christian lives. ship with God. This "baptism" The Catholic Charismatice Re­occurs when Charismatics pray newal is not separate from the over one who desires to become established Catholic Church. a Charismatic. The individual The Charismatic beliefs who is being prayed over then strengthen the individual's receives the Spirit. As a Notre faith to such an extent that the Dame Charisma* described it: Charismatic develops a renew­
" ...in response to the people's ed interest in the Church. Mike prayers the Spirit descends, as Kunish, a Notre Dame student he did with the Apostles, and and Charismatic said: "I used enters the souls of those who to look at Sunday Mass as an are bdng 'baptised."': Most exercise, it was something that Charismatics claim that this I had to do. The Holy Spirit has· 
"·d-~ 1<Jl-'t1
:J., ··fi 
~.~; 'IJ !I' 

-7J \. ~· ~,. '!:-~--~~-"J,_.......,...... ~. ~.-;:·"11~..~... .:'0-..... ~ ~-~ .. 'l 
strengthened my faith. I now maries tend to be overinflu­community claimed that the have a greater appreciation for enced by "undiscerned pro­Charismatics are " ... subject to the scriptures and the life of phetic utterances" (a belief that human frailities like other hu­Jesus." For the Charismatics someone possesses the gtft of mans." He added that " ... it is God is no longer an abstract by tongues when actually he may unfortunate these attitudes de­which they govern their lives. not). Bro.LeVille noted that at velop, it is obviously not God's God is the embodiment of love large Charismatic gatherings will. " This reporter found that and kindness. Kunish added (eg: the Notre Dame conven­these attitudes did not seem to that the .. new" relationship tion, prayer groups with regular exist in the Notre Dame prayer
that he has formed with God is membership over 1000) some group. 
a personal one: " ... it is very individuals may ''fake'' the gift The Catholic Charismatic Re-similar to the relationships you of tongues (charisms). A have with a brother or sister." member of the Notre Dame 
[continued on page 11]

The Charismatics claim that a mutual love exists in the rela­tionship between God and the individual. Acknowledging this love the Charismatic receives 
Observer needs typists. 
another gift from the Spirit: self peace. Despite the aforementioned benefits of the Charismatic 

all Kim at 8122 or 8661 
renewal there are several in­herent problems. Through the close relationship these indi­viduals have established with 
,
God many have developed be­
liefs of elitism and ''holier than 
1,thou'' attitudes. The Charis­
,
, 
1
.. 

1
, 
-
• 
-
~.
...,.,.. 

ENGINEERING AND COMPUTER SCIENCE SENIORS 
CoDJ.e to o_ur OPEN HOUSE 
McDonnell Douglas Corporation is • Receive brochures of al..l pro­having an Open House for Engineer­grams and career opportunities. ing and Computer Science Seniors 
Refreshments interested in learning more about We'll be on campus
career opportunities. This is your op­portunity to: Tues., Jan. 22 
• Talk with recent graduates pres­

Morris Inn 
ently working with McDonnell 

Shamrock Room
Douglas Corporation, 
• See movies of Fighter & Com­7:00pm-9:00pm mercial Aircraft, Spacecraft, and 
/

Missile Programs. 
MCDONNEl-l.. OOUG'-Q'"'l_,l'__ 
~ 

U.S. Citizenship Required An Equal Opportunity Employer 

~-~------­
The Observer Friday, January 18, 1980 -page 8 
, 
r r r 



N ew-stnen must leave Kabul 
KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) ­

I The Soviet-backed Af han government has ordereJ all American 1. journalists out I of the coundy, accusing them of: biased reporting and "interfer-1 ence in the country's internal! affairs," a U.S. Embassy offic­ial told the journalists yester-! 
day. 
Authorities detained the Americans at Kabul's Intercon­tinental Hotel, where most were staying, and told them they would be expelled Friday. 
About 50 or;60 of the approx· imately 200 Western correspon· dents, photographers and 

LEGAL 


BASEMENT, NOtRE DAME LAW SCHOOL 
LEGAL "D & DEFENDER ASSOCIATION ROOM B·12 283·7795 11am· 2pm (W.· F> other times by appointment 
WE HANDLf ALL 1=1NANCIALLY QUALIFIED STUDE:NTS & STAFF 

A representative from the -­MBA program at Michigan State University will be on campus 
-Tuesday Jan. 22nd ­to discuss educational opportunities. Open to all N.D. seniors of any major. at the Placement Office 
L. '· 
Special offer! 
The Sunday



Tribune, 
.. 
z 
8 ;:) !.0 
Q 

2nd Semester when you orderdiliJY and Sunday de&very. 

r--p;;;;;;;;,-;;;,it;"~--------"'i
n.t"• .,elotsOI'good '~.uo"lS IOget 
doolyandSunday .............,ol... 

ChagoTnbune Andf'IOhl:row were i f~S::;:;,tr~~ QMilg you • new one 
I ~_::u:_~~~~ 
'ltlulgerlheSI,nj,ayTrtluneh'eelcw 
I IMneloglbitlor!MIPit(.alotlotboc.lvse
13weeks when vou s.gnup lor dally and rchtttcooel
Sunda,,..,........., 
·ram~.anon·sut:.:nt:. 
·ram•Suncllr·ontysub5cnbet
~~.!,..r,.,.,,...,.,lj',SSCl)::iN T 
--·...
CaD: 
c.., --StMe. liP-.­
Pat Glenon­8981 
dl.."!'"'to the 91': •b

......._,•\liUOl!\0 un nnt ,,.___.......,.. ....a~~~~~~______ 
broadcast crew members noW' 
in Afghanistan are American. 
Most arrived early this month after the Soviet Union poured tens of thousands of its troops into this central Asian country, where they helped overthrow one Marxist government and replace it with another and have been helping the Afghan army put down an anti-communist rebellion in the countryside. 
The Afghan order came three days after Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's regime in neigh­borin~ Iran ordered all Ameri­can Journalists out of that country. 
A Western diplomat in New D~lhi, India, said ~nitial r~ports sa1d only Amencan cltlzens were to be deported from Afghanistan. It was not clear whether this included non­Americans working for U.S. organizations. 
The Soviet news agency Tass quoted an Afghan Revolution­ary Council decree as saying ''phony'' American corres­pondents had entered Afghan­istan and were "practicing in fabrications and insinuations, one being more absurd than another. Their aim is to step up · tension in our country, disrupt the normal life of the Afghans." 
It mentioned in particular the New York Times, Washington Post and Christian Science Monitor newspapers and ''American radio and television companies." 
"We cannot but qualify the activities of the above-mention­ed journalists as flagrant inter­ference in the affairs of the sovereign state ofAfghanistan. That is why the Revolutionary Council has taken a decision to expel the American journalists from Afghanistan,'' Tass quoted the decree as saying. 
Russian officers commanding the Soviet force in Afghanistan are understood to have com­plained to Afghan authorities about the almost daily incidents between Soviet soldiers and foreign correspondents filming, photo~raphing and trying to mterv1ew them. 
It has become routine for Soviet troops to arrest corres­pondents and confiscate film. Reporters are usually held for a couple of hours and released. 
In some cases troops have fired at the tires ofcars carrying correspondents. 
. The Afghan ~ove!nment con­tmues to exerc1se ngorous cen­sorship. It does not permit journalists to telephone or wire reports out of the country that mention the Soviet presence. 

Students rise early to try to beat the Space Invaders before classes. [photo by Tim McKeogh} 
Hostages write letters to families , friends 
(AP) -American hostages in Tehran, apparently as a Christ­mas gesture by their captors, have been allowed to write home expressing thanks for messages of support and ap­pealing--in the words of one-­for "prompt action to free us from this terrible situation." 
Among the letters received this week by ~overnment offi­cials and families, well-wishers and newspapers from Milwau· kee to Landisville, N.]., was one from Marine Sgt. Kevin Hermening of Oak Creek, Wis., to his father. 
Hermening, writing Dec. 15, expressed hope he would be home by Chnstmas 1980, but said '.'1 even doubt that." 
Another Marine, Cpl. William Gallegos, 21 of Pueblo, Colo., was more optimistic. In a thank-you note Ito Lisa and ] odi Gurbisz, young sisters in Bayonne, N.]., who hag sent a Christmas card to the hostages, Gallegos said: "Your prayers will soon bring us home.'' 
The most graphic letter to surface was hand-written by Robert C. Ode, 64 a retired fordgn service officer from the Washington suburb of Falls Church, Va. He was serving temporarily at the U.S. Embas­sy in Tehran when it was seized Nov. 4 by Iranian militants demanding that the United States return the exiled Shah 
The Observer Needs You! 
Layout Positions Available! 
• 
No experience Necessary 

• 
Good chance for advancement Sunday, Tuesdai,j;#~~:1hursday 


night pqsftlons • •Call]ohnqt 8661.• 
for trial. 
In the letter, dated Dec. 26 and received Wednesday by the Washington Post, Ode, who is the oldest of the hostages, wrote: 
"We are being kept in semi­darkened rooms; our hands are tied day and night; bright lights are kept burning all night and because of the constant noise it is almost impossible to sleep. 
"In 53 days I have been given only three brief exercise peri­ods in the fresh air and only four tasteless and unripe oranges; two hard boiled eg&~·· one small bottle of fresh mtlk and a few pressed dates to supplement an otherwise mono­tonous and too starchy diet.'' 
Ode said he believed mail had been withheld from the hos­tages, and that they were denied visits by U.S. govern· ment rerresentatives, given no news o any kind, and were forbidden to talk to each other in the same room. 
Ode said the hostages had no idea what the United States was doing in their behalf. "I can only ask that with your power of the press," he wrote the Post, "that you do everything pos­sible to bring pressure on the responsible leaders in our gov­ernment to take prompt action to free us from this terrible situation.' ' 
Ode sent similar letters to the White House and to Sen. John Warner, R-Va., and Rep. 
Joseph Fisher, D-Va. Private letters from Ode were received by his wife, Rita; his sister, Marjorie, Keone of St. Louis, Mich., and to the fourth grade class at Our Ladr. of Victories School in Landisv1lle, N.]. The 

· 38 "delighted and surprised" youngsters in the class had sent Christmas cards to the hostages in November. 
State Department spokesman Hodding Carter said yesterday ·that Ode's llerter;; which ap­peared. ro . be ~nlJine' was Iamong (hbse r~~~!ved by 16 persons· across tfi:e ~' ~ountry in the past few da:ys~&,o,m nine of 
· the American· host~tes held in Tehran · ···: ~-··~;·.. 
. .-. : : ~-: -\ ~: ' 
' 

: ... r . . ....-·...~ 
·~ 

-··----~------------------------------------... 





Editorials 
Friday, January 18, 1980 -page 9 
The Poverty ofLiberalism 

Bernard Norling 
RICHARD f. PHELPS Head Baskelb~ll Coach 

December 12, 1979 
The publication of ''The and cohorts have executed by millenia! dreams and hunge'r Chase Manhattan Bank and some 600-700 people, by wes­for power, have done the mo­Notre Dame" by Peter Walshe tern count, in a few months. dern world far more damage (The Observer, Dec. 4) is a new Why is there no criticism of than "ruling elites" of any low in the local history of this? Is it merely because kind. One thinks at once of A Message to the Notre Dame Student Bodv: 
invertebrate liberalism. Prof. Khomeini is hostile to the USA? Karl Marx, Lenin, Stalin, Hitler W alshe is filled with moral Whether it is in this article, or Mussolini, and many lesser Seldom in the history df Our Lady 1 s school has it been deemed 
feasible to contact you with regard to deportment of our students
indignation at the foreign in­in the movie ''The Politics of philosophers and exponents of at an athletic contest, but I feel it is appropriate at' this 
point in time to offer certain observations.
vestment policies of the Chase Torture'' shown on campus last communism, fascism, and Manhattan Bank and its alleged semester, or in the writings of Nazism, not to speak of charla­No one is more loyal to their school or their athletic teams than 
our students. The support rendered has been outstanding. and it
connection with the U.S. liberals generally, it is only the tan economists like Keynes. As 
is widely acknowledged by all. 
Government. Let him ponder a crimes of nations friendly to the fur educators prudishly.Qisdain­
1 must appeal for your continued support by requesting that certain
few realities about the world USA that are condemned. The ing association with corrupt antics displayed at our recent basketball game against UCLA be 
discontinued.
instead of retreating into uto­Shah, Marcos in the Phillip­U.S. "institutions" anyone con­
pian mists. It is the business of pines, and the Pinochet regime \ttsant with educational estab­I am ~eferring to the practice of throwin~ toilet paper, a dangerous one as well as a gesture of poor taste. Elderly p~ople have been
governments everywhere to de­10 Chile are denounced as lishments at any level is unlike­injured, broken. players on both teams have hit, and
eye~lasses been 
fend the interests of their monstrous and inhuman if they ly to stand awestruck at their visiting press have felt threatened and endangered. 1 further entreat 
all of you to desist from the practice of chanting obscenities.
nations and nationals, be the defend themselves against ene­moraJ grandeur. latter bankers or some other. mies and kill or maim scores or To sum up: why do liberals We at Notre Dame have the reputation for being a ''class'' institution 
and having a student body that is renown foi behaving with style. LetDo not underdeveloped count­hundreds in thejrocess. But persistently attack American us not Jeopardize what we cherish so reverently by behavior that is 
less than acceptable at this University.
ries need investment capital? not a word is sai of the scores business corporations and at­Why then is it "immoral" for of millions who have been put tribute malign designs to them As in the past, I knm.r I ca~ count on your lOOX cooperation. 
U.S. banks to provide it, and to death in a hundred shameful but find no fault with Soviet 
Yours in Notre Dame,
their government to support ways in Communist Russia and advisers, trade delegations, 
..--v.,'f.~ ·· 
them? If our banks do not, it Ch10a since 1917. No criticism technicians, and attendant po­
"Digger" Phelps
means merely that French, is directed at the Communist licemen and Cuban mercena­
H~ad Basketball Coach 
German and Japanese banks North Vietnamese or the savage ries? Why do they attack as 
will. Or would Prof. Walshe Marxist Pol Pot who have, tyrannical any foretgn country 
prefer that the aid come from between them, murdered at that does not have a democratic 
Russian technical experts ac­least a third of the people of government but is friendly to 
companied by the ubiquitous Cambodia in the past year and the USA while ignoring the 
Soviet secret police and Cuban who have first robbed scores of incomparably more bloody re­
troops? If he would prefer this thousands of hapless Vietna­gimes that are hostile to us? 
let him say so frankly instead of mese and then set them out to Why do they bashfully avert 
P. 0. Box Q
adopting a superior moral tone sea to starve or drown. In Africa their eyes and mislay their pens about the whole matter. Prof. W alshe says nothing if asked to contemplate the He speaks of "exploitative about the massacres of the crimes of any ''left'' or anti­translational corporations,'' Marxist Mengistu regime in American tyranny? Why do 
Hesburgh urged before the end oflast semester.
meaning those of American Ethiopia; nor the cnmes of they assume that virtually any As a result, the issues raised ori~in, and ''habitual manipu­those spectacular black tyrants vexatious problem in foreign 
did not receive the public
lation" of the politics of Third Bekassa I, Idi Amin, and relations, or any undesirable to justify debate they deserve. World countries by the USA. Francisco Nguema Macias; nor social condition in a foreign I like to press
would Fr.
Why is he so patronizing to all of the Nigerian tribes who country, must have been Hesburgh to present to our
the non-western peoples of the managed to starve or otherwise caused by some American Chase position community his reasons forworld? He must assume that slaughter something like a agency, and that it is an 
having stayed on the Board ofthey are natural inferiors since million lbos in west Africa a American responsibility to set Dear Editor: the Chase Manhattan for sohe obviously regards them as decade ago. Instead he trots this right? Why do they long. Given Prof. Walshe's 
too childlike to resist the alleg­out bromtdes about apartheid· assume that any nation hostile allegations about Chase's
In a column entitled ''Theed manipulation. Does he think and the Sharpeville Massacre of to the USA has legitimate Chase Manhattan Bank and activities in countries with 
that Khomeini, right now, is 137 people in 1960. Where is national interests which it right­repressive regimes, we have a
Notre Dame," (The Observer,
being "manipulated" by ma­his sense of proportion? What fully pursues but that for the Dec. 4, 1979) Prof. Peter duty to ask Fr. Hesburgh if this lign western transnational cor­kind of "morahty" is it that USA even to have a ''national 
Walshe outlined the Bank's picture~ is accurate. It at least porations? Or Quaddafi, the denounces the small crimes and interest'' is morally reprehensi­involvement in the political behooves Fr. Hesburgh to give
Libyan dictator? injustices of friends but ignores ble? In short, on which side are an account of what he has tried
economy of three repressiveWhy does he assume that all the thousandfold greater crimes they in the ceaseless struggle of regimes: Iran, South Africa to do at the Chase, working for 
foreign investment is exploita­of energetic enemies? the Free World to escape the ano Chile.· Such corporate reform from inside the system.tive, that it does not result in Finally, Fr. Hesburgh and, by 
toils of communist thralldom? activity in the third world is At Notre Dame we claim to 
earned incomes but only in implication, the rest of us, are With whom do they sympathize increasingly well documented, be seriously interested in thetheft? This is a distinctively scolded for failing to "maintain 
ultimately? Let us have if not so well known. Prof. moral issues of our time, yet
Marxist idea; hardly what one a critical distance from ruling straight answers to these ques­. Walshe suggested ·that ·Fr. vigorous political discourse is would expect from a purveyor elites and their intitutions"·· tions from Prof. W alshe and not an obvious feature of
Hesburgh, who sits on the
of Christian idealism. In any presumably the base Chase from the "idealists" who ped­campus life. Our President's
Board of Chase Manhattan,
case, just who is being exploit­Manhattan Bank. On what dle movies like "The Politics of should resign from that position involvement with an institution 
ed? In most of the underdeve­ground should intellectuals · Torture." We can do without ·"in the light of the Bank's like the Chase Manhattan 
loped parts of the world those of and universities feel superior to puerilities about "moralists" .dubious record." would be a good place to start 
the local population who work "ruling elites and their institu· · falling into "cynicism" because The timing of Walshe's discussion. 
for foreign "transnational cor­tions''? Irresponsible intellec-of the wicked Chase Manhattan 
column was unfortunate
porations" are paid better, and tuals, consumed about equallv Bank. :coming as it did, only days Paul Lauer 
live better than those who work for employers of their own race or nationality. If Prof. Walshe is genuinely concerned about real exploitation why doesn't he shed some tears for the East Europeans whose economies have been milked systemati­cally since 1946 for _the ~ene~t of Russia, by the tdeahsts 10 Moscow? 
Prof. W alshe bemoans the "brutality" of the Shah's re­gime in Iran. Brutal it was, to be sure, as are scores of regimes, Left and Right, ~I over the world. But 1s Khomeini' s regime gentle by comparison? The Ayatollah 

administration of either institution. 
Editorial. Board and Department Managers 
The news is reponed as accurately and 
-The Observer_· 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ........Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ..................Mark Perry · -·:,... , represent the opinion Of a .majority of Managing Editor ... : ...... Diane Wilson Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly &xQ Notre Dame, IN 46.5.56 ·:. _' the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor............ .. Ann Gales Photo Editor ......... .....Doug Christian 
opinions and lette~ are the views of Senior Copy Edftor: ...... .. M. Onufrak T~ Observe· is an independent their authors. C<)hirnP ~pac:::e is avail-Exec11ti11~ News Editor .... .. Mike Lewis Business Milnager........Steve Odland nC::w~ published by the s~en~ able to all members of the community, News Editof .. ' .... ,:~: ..........Mark Rust . :*-EJ'c!duction Milnager .... /]ohn McGrath ofme University of Notre Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News Editor ..•... : .. ,.:... ... Mike Shields ' :"Advertising Manager .........Bob RudyaOd saint Mary's College. It does Dot opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC Executiv': £.ditor .....Ell~n Buddr. •. Co•troUer, .. , ..............Kevin Manion 
, nece5sarily reflect the policies ~f the encouraged_. · · , . • . ,
SMCNews Bdttor;,...... Margte Brasstl : Circulation Manager ......Greg Hedges · ~---.:.____...;~...;..'J!..~.;.;.~,..--__ __~'"""------...;.-----..."'!"-..........___ ___~~~illl!l~~~--...,;;,--------'!"'.!". ....',"',-~·; ~
...;._;... .,.. '!"',!".11!1 ·:·····;:"(."'-''"" 
.............. ~,.,4 .. tt 
~----------~--------------~L-----------------------------------------------~L------------------'--­
-


y 4 .. I ':'"'-; ~_, .
• The Observer Friday, January IS, 1980-page 10 
. ----------...... ---__ .. ------.----..... ---... --·~-------::.---·-----------. ------.·---... ----------.. --·-----~·------.... --­

Afghans reject Russia, but attack only vocally 
KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) ­Cab drivers who barely speak English know how to say, "America good, Russia bad." 
Shopkeepers boast to West­erners about refusing to serve Soviet troops. 
A messenger waiting in line at a post office covers his mouth with his hand and whis­pers: "Very bad time for Af­ghanistan.'' 
And a toothless old man, who 46 years ago fled the Soviet Un­ion for Af~hanistan, says of the present situation here: "Very bad. Very, very bad. They are against God." 
Three weeks after the Soviet army occupied Afghanistan and helped replace one Marxist ~overnment with another, vis­Itors to the ancient capital city still hear much talk against the Soviets. 

When you're working in a specialized field, you need a specialized calculator. That's why Texas Instruments designed the Slimline Business Analyst-11"' for busi­ness and finance ... and the S/imline TI­50 '" for science and math. Each provides the tailored power and the reliability you'll need as you learn to solve the problems you'll face as a professional. And each has a price you'll appreciate as a student. 
Slimline Business Analyst-H. 
Sleek LCD calculator with versatile 
business capabilities. 
Solving financial problems with the Slimline Business Analyst-11 can make working with your old calculator seem like pencil-and-paper arithmetic. The functions required to perform many common busi­ness, financial and statistical calculations are built in to help you make quick, accurate evaluations of many complex business situations. 
pound  interest,  annui- W  '"'01'•"'  
ty payments, mortgage loans, investment yields,  ~·'  
amortization  schedules  ~  
and more.  ··  r .......  

Special financial keys are used to handle time and money problems such as com­
L ~=...., 

Statistical and linear regression capabili­ties provide the power you'll need to boil down data and automatically handle prob­lems such as sales and earnings forecasts. 
Profit margin calculations concerning cost, selling price and margin can be per­formed rapidly when any two of the varia­bles are known. Other features include a four-function data register with Constant Memory'" feature that retains its contents even when the calculator is turned off. '1\vo miniature batteries provide up to two years II..,eration in normal use. And TI's APD'" automatic power down feature helps pre­vent accidental battery drain. 
The Business Analyst-II, with detailed owner's manual and suede-look vinyl wallet wit~ pockets for notes, $45.00*. 
The Slimline Tl-50 packs 60 power­ful functions into a handsome, compact package. 
The pocket-portable Slimline TI-50 is are­markably powerful LCD slide-rule calcula­tor. Yet it's as thin as a pencil and weighs only three ounces! 
Its 60 versatile functions can help you handle a wide range of college math prob­lems. Capabilities include common and natural logarithms. Six trigonometric oper­ations that can be performed in three angu­lar modes (degrees, radians or grads). '1\vo constant memories that retain their con­tents even when the calculator is tzmzed o.ff. And more. 
Seven built-in statistical functions sim­plify the task of boiling down large sets of data points so you can perform accurate analyses and draw reliable conclusions. 
The power of the Slimline TI-50 is made easy to use by Tl's AOS "' algebraic operat­ing system, which provides 15 sets of pa­rentheses and accepts up to four pending operations. That means you can enter most problems just as they're written, left to right. 
'1\vo miniature batteries provide up to two years of normal operation. And TI's APD "' automatic power down feature helps prevent accidental battery drain. 
The Slimline TI-50 includes a detailed owner's manual and a durable vinyl wallet, $40.00*. 
Make sure your next calculator has the specialized power to handle 
Fifty rears

the problems unique to your 
InnJtation

major. See the Business Ana­lyst-II and the Slimline Tl-50 at your college bookstore or 
4P

other TI dealer today. , 
Yet that seems the extent of anti-Soviet action in this city of 450,000. 
Everyone -from Kabul's carpet tycoons to the urchins who sell single cigarettes for a cent apiece -is still doing brisk business with Soviets are going about their business as usual. 
The Soviet army may stay out of town, clustered in large tank and truck parks on the foothills of the surrounding mountains. But several thou­sand Soviet civilians -tech­nicians, advisers and teachers, who were here long before the army arrived -are in full view in the marketplaces, bun­dled up in their coats and fur caps. 
Westerners soon learn to dis­trust rumors, still flowing freely through Kabul, about So­viets being killed by Afghans. 
"Maybe there were a few in­cidents in the first days of oc­cupation," says one Western diplomat. "But I think these same incidents are being recy­cled over and over as new at­tacks, because the Kabul bour­geoisie... want to feel they are also doing their bit against the Russians.·· 
Afghanistan historically has driven off foreign powers who have crossed into its territory. 
Kabul has witnessed the pas­sage of Darius of Persia, Alex­ander the Great, Tamerlane, the Arabs, the Mongols and the Moghuls. The country fought the British to a standstill three times, despite being bombed by British aircraft in 1919. 
Family 

[continued from page 13] 
the promise of eternal life." 
Below the altar lay four caskets -rwo large, two small. Lisa Gilligan was buried with a litt-le doll; her brother•, ·winh·.a~ ... worn teddy bear. 
"Holy Father, help us to be aware of your presence,'' Tempel said. "We are sad that Patnck, Theresa, Lisa and Gregory were with us such a short time, and we are still stunned by their tragic deaths.'' 
Mourners prayed and sang hymns in hoarse, choked voices that blended with muffled sobs. "So senseless," they said. "So sad." 
Tempel said the Gilligans' deaths ''have influenced all people." 
•'This is the international year of the family -and I cannot help but be struck by the contradiction of all this," he said. 
"We know the Gilligans were a beautiful family -and many times we, ,all take family life for granted. 
Tempel asked mourners to join hands, "to remind our­selves that we are one family." 
''The sadness of death gives way to the hope of immortal­ity," he said. "Our God does not leave us in death." 
After the service, Mrs. Gilligan's parents, Dorothy and Lawrence Sahm, walked stiffly from the church, their eyes red from crying. 
Later, at St. Joseph Catholic 
Texas Instruments technology-bringing affordable electronics to your fingertips. Cemetary, Mrs. Sahm wept openly in the arms of her other daughter, Diana Harrington.TEXAS INSTRUMENTS • 'They were so good; they 
•U S sugguted reta1t pnce had so much love," she cried. @ 1980 Ttxas tnltrumtntslncorporaltd INCORPORATED 45684-A 
':_.r 

, .. ~ -~ vvv"' u 
The Observer 
LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD 
Love note to a roommate 

It is not easy to hear news that your dog, Darby O'Gill, is in a critical state of health, and m!ly be dying, his heart worn out from the effects of age. Darby is the only dog I have ever had, and we've had a partner­ship in ministry since he was five weeks old. On February 3, he will be ten years old, if he lives, and the v~t.~.~;:marian says his heart is failing. How appropriate it is for his heart to be tired; how glorious for him that he used it so effectively, so that it should be in greater need of being quiet than the rest of him. 
He has been ailing since Tuesday, when he got off the plane from New York. Unable to move without pain, and with breathing that is labored, he seems to look at me with eyes that say: ''Griffin, I now have secrets that you can't dream of." He was always quieter than other dogs; most people on campus have never heard him bark. But of the experiences he has not shared with me, he is being most private of all with his thoughts of mortality. Yet it seems a comfort to him when I pick him up and hold him, as though he heard me saying: "Faith is a blanket we can lie down to sleep on, Darby. We will wake up to chase leaves in the sun.'' It is comfort to see him watching me; those eyes, by themselves, are a parable about the virtues of being faithful to one's own master. 
My dog is not a mystic, and I don't think Darby dreams of heaven. I merely think that he expects to be with me, that's all. When I go to New York, he goes along. When I go for a walk, he stands in front of the door until I agree to take him. If he knew I were dreaming of heaven, he would dream of heaven also; not because he cares about seeing the angels, but because he cares about being with me. Yet he has a way of wandering off by himself, ifl don't prevent him. He always knows he's coming back, or else that I will catch up with him. If heaven is kind, some arrangement will be made, either for his coming back, or my catching up. I don't know if that's the Church's theology, but it's certainly the expectation of Darby O'Gill. 
In the meantime, right now he's in the dog hospital, fighung for his life. If I told him that the worst he could ex.Pect was a long sleep, he wouldn't mmd that. Darby has always had plenty of experiences of sleep; he loves sleeping, lying lazy in places where he can listen for noises that might threaten him or me. Chesterton describes sleep as a kind of sacrament, strengthening us for action, renewing our energies. If he could use one sacrament, I think sleep is the sacrament Darby would choose to be redeemed by. Nothing could be fearful for him if the gateway is a long nap. 
Whatever happens now, the veterinarian says, the Darby heart has nearly beat itself out; at best, there are only months' -worth of wear left in it. If so, all the eulogy I have to offer is to say that I loved him. Others have told me that they own dogs that are smarter, dogs that are bigger, dogs that are more accomplished, dogs . that are all-around more wonderful. All I can say is that none of those remarkable creatures has done anything so nearly distinguished as surviving for ten years on the Notre Dame campus. The simple fact of surviving, by itself, makes Darby O'Gill worthy of a 
Nobel prize among canines. Let's face it, folks: Not everyone on this campus is a lover of dogs, or a lover of small dogs, or a lover of dorm dogs, or a lover of Griffin's dog. Anyway, Darby has never really been just Gnffin's dog; no do~ is an Island; no dog wants to be an Island, not if he's Darby O'Gill, dying of a worn out heart. For ten years, Darby has lived in the shadow of the Dome at Keenan Hall, petted, patted, and loved as a member of the campus community, having his own place named after him. Not even Father Hesburgh has his own place named after him. Darby O'Gill, in life, has been given the privileg· that the rest of the Notre Dame heroes have to wait for until they are dead 
I am proud to have been the roommate of such an exceptional creature. Whether you knew him or not, or liked him or not, I'll say it one more time: Darby O'Gill never said he didn't love you. I hope you'll come by -· when he gets better --to hear him tell you so himself. 
No politics for Carter 
by Art Buchwald 

"Is this Mr. Eldridge Winkler, Eldridge? If this leaked out, chairman of the Flatbottom, our whole foreign policy could Iowa, Democratic Party?'' be in jeopardy.'' 
"Yes, it is." "Of course, Mr. President." 
''Just a minute. The Presi­''The Russians can't be trus­dent of the United States of ted." America would like to speak to ''When on earth did you find you.'' . that out?" 
"Eldridge, this is Jimmy Car­"About three weeks aso. ter. I am calling you from the They don't know what it Is to White House, which I am keep their word. I'm glad I unable to leave because of all discovered it during my first the worldwide crises that are term as President. It's given preventing me from campaign­me a whole new insight into ing.Jlw:ing this election year." Soviet-American relations." 
"Yes, sir, Mr. President. It's "But what do you do with all very kind of you to take time out the grain and corn you told us to from your busy schedule, which raise for the last three years?" must be consuming every minute "Eldridge, I'm going to say of your day. can I ask what one word to you now, but I you're calling about?" don't want you to tell anyone 
"I just finished a meeting with where you heard it." the National Security Council ''I'm listening, Mr. Presi­concerning Iran, and I'm going dent.'' into another meeting with the ''Gasohol!'' secretary of state over Afgha­"Gas-a-what?'' nistan, and I was wondering "Gasohol. I want all the how things were going in farmers in Iowa to take all their Iowa.'' grain and soybeans and corn 
''You mean politically?'' and make alcohol out of it. "Of course not politically. I Then I want you to take that don't believe the President alcohol and pour it/ into your should get involved in politics fuel tanks. Then I want at a moment like this. It's everyone to get in their cars and beneath him." drive around with their head­"Ifyou say so, Mr. President. lights on and show the Soviets But why did you call then?" we mean business when they 
''I was just thinking about Y<?U invade Afghanistan.'' and all the loyal supporters m "Anything you say, Mr. Presi­Iowa who did so much for me in dent. Would you like to know 1976 when I first started run­how the Iowa caucuses are ning for the highest office in going?'' this land." "No, Eldridge, I didn't call to 
''You mean with all the things talk about caucuses. I know the you've got to worry about, people of Iowa will do the right you've had time to thmk about thing next week, in spite of the Iowa?" fact I have been too busy to 
"I always think about Iowa. I further my own political for­can never forget your amber tunes in your great state. waves of grain and your corn Goodbye, Eldridge. I'II pray for which is as high as an ele­you.'' phant's eye, it reaches right up ''Is this Mr. Cameron Doolittle there into the sky.'' of the Mason City, Iowa, Demo­
"Now that you mention it, Mr. cratic Party? Just a minute, I President, the people in Flat­have the President of the bottom woutd like to ask you United States of America on the about all that grain and corn. line." Why on earth did you put ~n "Cameron, this is Jimmy Car­embargo on food to the Sov1et ter and as you know I am unable Union at this time?" to leave the White House,· 
"Can you keep a state secret, Lut ... " 
••• Charistnatics
. -­

[continued from page 7)  adoption ofany goal, it is not an organized enterprise." The  the Church has with the Re­newal: ''The Church needs the  
newal has developed from small  movement has gained populari­ vitality  of  the  Charismatic  
' gatherings of students at Notre  ty (its membership is increasing  movement and the Movement  
Dame and Duquesne Universi­ annually)  in  recent  years  be­ needs  the  sacraments,  the  
ties to an international organi­ cause the Charismaucs ardently  teachings and the pastoral di­ 
zation with a total membership  believe the Holy Spirit takes an  rection of the Church."  This  
in excess of one  million.  The  active  role  in  their  meetings  mutual  relationship  has  en­ 
estimated number of Citholic  and their lives.  abled the Catholic Renewal to  
Charismatics  in  the  United  Of  the  many  pentecostal  succeed where other forms of  
States today is in the  area  of  movements in the United States  Charismatic renewal have .fal­ 
500,000 members. The renewal  and the world  (total member­ tered.  
itself is very young, it started  ship numbers  between fifteen  The Catholic Charismatic Re­ 
on  the  university  campuses  and  twenty  million)  only  the  newal does· not  exemplify the  
mentioned above twelve years  Catholic Church did  not resist  fanaticism  that  often  exists  
ago.  The Renewal did not start  the Renewal  movement.  The  within  Charismatic  prayer  
in  the  boundaries  of  a  strict  late Pope Paul VI praised and  groups.  As  Fr.  O'Connor  
format.  In its early years the  encouraged the Catholic  Cha­ stated:  "The frequent excla­ 
prayer meetings took place at  rismatics  for  their  efforts  to  mations of 'Amen' and 'Halle­ 
individual  homes.  As  Fr.  revitalize the Christian faith.  lujah'  so  characteristic of the  
O'Connor states:  "The Catho­ Bishop  William  McManus  of  main-line Pentecostal churches  
lic Charismatic Renewal did not  South  Bend,  Indiana  empha­ are  seldom  heard  at  most  
ongmate  by  the  deliberate  sized  the  mutual  relationship  Catholic meetings.'' The Catho­ 
lic  Charisrr,atics  view  their  
"charismatic life"  as  supple­ 
,  ,  ,  life span  mentary to their relationship with the established Church. As Mike Kunish noted: "My  
religious priorities are the rela­ 
tionship I have with God,  my  
[continued from page 2)  31,407 persons in 1976, or 14.8  Catholic faith and the Charis­ 
of every 100,000 persons.  .  matic Renewal, respectively." 
about by social pressures and  Alcohol abuse and alcoholism  The Charismatic Renewal  can  
this is where any improvement  are  estimated by the Alcohol,  therefore  be  considered  a  
in  the  American  life  span  is  Drug Abuse and Mental Health  means to an end; through it the  
likely  to  come  in  the  near  Administration  to  have  cost  Charismatics  develop  a  close  
future,  according  to  re­ the nation nearly $43 billion in  relationship with God  and  an  
searchers.  1975,  including  health  and  inner self peace.  The Charis­ 
Some of the social problems  medical costs, lost production,  matics continue to attend Mass  
which  Americans  are  going  auto accidents, violent crimes,  with a deeper understanding of  '  
to  have  to  reckon  with  are  fire losses and social programs.  the faith.  
emphasized  in  the  surgeon  The  Charismatic, Movement  
general's latest report on health  Through a system of measuring  draws people from all walks of  '  
promotion and disease preven­ the number of life  years  lost  life, the professional, the busi­ 
tion.  because  of  premature  death,  nessman,  the  religious,  the  I  
"Currently, average consump­ here are the total years lost to  assembly line worker and  the  j  
tion of alcohol for all  persons  some of the chronic disease and  unskilled laborer.  These Char­ j  
older  than  14 'is  30  percent  social  factors  in  1976: heart  sima'tics  become  representa­ j  
higher than 15 years ago-about 2.6 gallons of ethanol annually, representing a total of 28  disease 4.3 million years, motor vehicle accidents 1. 7 millio. years, all other accidents 1.4  tives of the Holy Spirit on earth. As Fr. Richard Roar stated: ''The pentecostal Christians are  l  
gallons of beer, plus 2. 5 gallons  million  years,  stroke  333;944  characterized by  a  lively  con­ j  
of  distilled  spirits  and  2.25  years,  suicide  814,157  years,  sciousness of the presence and  
gallons said.  of wine,'' .  the  report  homicide 755,629 years, cirr­hosis of the liver 578,473 years  action of the Holy Spirit. He is not only real for him He is the  1  
"Ten million adult Americans  ·and diabetes 263,042 years.  pivotal  reality  of  their  exis­ 
-7 percent of those 18 years or  Through  improvement  in  tence.''  The Charismatics live  
older  -are  estimated  to  be  these areas,  all  of which  are  in the way which Christ and the  
alco?,olics  or  problem  Jrink­ traced to the choice~  that man  Apostles emphasized, they ''Do  
ers.  made  in today' s society,  the  not resi't the Spirit (and they) 
Cirrhosis of the liver, caused  studies show that man can most  Do  not  resist  inspired  mes­ 
by  excessive  drinking,  killed  certainly improve his life span.  sages" (1 Thess,5:19).  
- 

~-----------------------------------------------­
-
The Observer 

• • • NLN 
[continued from page 1] 
graduated from an accredited undergraduate program. 
Two classes have already graduated from the nursing school and are working in position across the counrr;·. The mm:es are recruited with a vigor which sometimes fright­ens Martucci. 
"The recruiters come with dinners, presents and prom­ises," she said. "I worry about the girls being swept away by all this.'' 

Aside from that one worry, the future of the nursing school looks very promising 
"I knew we'd get the accredi­tation," Teresa Robb, a soph­omore nursing major said. "It was just a gut feeling. This school is so great, how could we 
miss?'' 


Notre Dame Karate Club practices Tuesday and Thursday 6-Bpm in the ACCpit. Professional Instruction ~­For information contact Mike 3654 or Ray 3179Beginners welcome  

everything from nuclear pro­
pulsion to systems analysis, 
oceanography to inventory 
management. In graduate 
school, this training would 
cost you thousands, but in 
the Navy, we pay you. 
Ask your Navy representa­tive about officer opportuni­ties, or mail this coupon for more information. Or call toll-free 800-841-8000 (in GA call toll-free 800-342-5855). There's no obligation, and you'll learn about an excellent way to start a career in management. As a college graduate you can get manage­ment experience in any indus­try. But you'll get it sooner­and more of it-in the Navy. 

Think of a ship as a corpora­tion, and it's not farfetched at all. A destroyer may have fifteen officers, other ships even fewer. Even the most junior officer gets to share in running the show. 
You become part of the management team when you get your corrunission as an ensign after just 16 weeks of leadership training at Officer Candidate School. 
Choose to be a Navy officer and you are responsible for people and equipment almost immediately. 
Many officers go on for further advanced schooling. The Navy has literally dozens of fields for its officers­

,-------------,
INAVY OPPORTUNITY B915 INFORMATION CENTER IP.O. Box 2000 Pelham Manor, New York 10803 0 Yes, I'm interested in becoming I a Navy Officer. Please send me more information. (~G~I 1 Narn•--------------------­FIRST !PLEASE PRINT) LAST  II 1I III  
Address-----------------­ 
CitY--------State----ZiP-­ 
Age--tCollege/University____  
;Graduation Date---¢Grade Point-­ 
AMajor/Minor----------­ 
Phone Number·------------::::--­ 
(AREA CODE)  CNJ/80  
The More We Know. The More We Can Help. The Privacy Act under Title 10, Section 503, 505. and 510 states that you do not have to answer the personal questions we have asked. However, the more we know, the more accurately we can determine your qualifica­tions for our Navy Officer Program.l--­ 

Friday, January 18, 1980 -page 12 
• • . Journal 
[continued from page I] 
The Moslems have declared 
holy war against the succession 
of three Marxist governments 
who have ruled the country for 
the past 20 months. Western 
diplomats in the capital said a 
lull in the fighting was 
continuing yesterday, but told 
of fighting last week in which 
the rebels first captured, then 
lost a town near the Soviet 
border. 
Usually reliable sources in 
Kabul reported that the rebels a 
week ago seized rhe town of 
Taloqan, capital of Takhar 
Province, bordering the Soviet 

Union and Ba-kakhs.h.an ., 
Province in northeastern 
Afghanistan. 
The rebels burned down a 
military garrison, killed the 
chief of police, the town 
governor and the province's 

chief accountant, but there 
were unconfirmed reports 
Afghan government troops 

subsequently recaptured the 
town, the sources said. They 

gave no derails of the fighting 
there. 
Lost&Found plans to sell unclaimed watches 
There are several wrist watches accumulated in the Lost and Found office of the Administration Building from ye~rs past. All the watches ~re bemg offered to commumty personnel for $20.00 on a first. come first served basis. All held more than sixty days will be offered. 
Ladies and mens watches in various conditions are
r 

available. 1 Unsold watches still on hand 
-
will be given to the missions after March 1, 1980.
NAVY OFFICERS GO RESPONSIBILITY FAST. 
---------------~­

----------~-------------­
..•,. 

The Observer -Sports Friday, January 18, 1980 -page 13 
Sports Briefs. _ _____, 
W~men's Crew to hold workout 
The ND/SMCWomen's Crew team will hold its initial winter workout this Sunday, January 20, 1980 at 10:00 AM. Members are to meet at Gate 3 of the ACC. All new members are encouraged to attend. Any questions concerning the workout should be directed toward Jill DeLucia (234-2331) or Teri Hinz (4-1-4968). 
Soccer team to meet Monday 
There will be a meeting for anyone interested in playing on the Notre Dame soccer team thts Monday evening, January 21, 1980 at 7:00 p.m. The meeting will be held in the Little Theater of the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Irish swimmers to face Butler 
The Fighting Irish swim team will engage in a dual me~t with Butler this Saturday, January 19, 1980, at 2:00p.m. m the Rockne Memorial pool. The Irish swimmers will be attempting to even their season record at 2-2. 
Notre Dame fans share in the jubilation ofthe earlier Insh victory over UCLA. The Bruins wzll be out to avenge that loss tomorrow in Pauley Pavilion. fphoto by john Macor]
• • • Olympics 
capital.

[continued from page 5] 
In her statement, Mrs. That­cher said, "We cannot just

nistan, deplore it and take no stand back and see the Russi­action at all," she said. 
ans doing what they have done [continued from page 16] 
behina with 14 ppg. ] ackson think we're getting better withOne official achnowledged in Afghanistan, deplore it and may also be the first basketball every game and, while we
that U.S. withdrawal from the take no action at all." 
Darren Daye (6.6 ppg). Paxson player in history to be credited haven't jelled as a team yet, weMoscow games or a move to For many of those who hope to believes that a good way to with "a save." (What else can aren't down on ourselves andestablish an opposing interna­participate, particularly swi~­counter their quickness is to you call that shot at the buzzer we're confident that we'll betional competition could jeo­mers and gymnasts, there ts exploit their inexperience. against Vill?nova ) Woolridge ready come tournament time."
pardize the 1984 Games, sched­only one chance in a life time to "We're in a good situation 'continues to· adjust to his new But tomorrow, John! What
uled to be held in Los Angeles. compete in an Olympiad. here at Notre Dame because position while averaging 9. 7 about tomorrow? 
It has not been decided, Because the games are held Coach Phelps is able to use the points and a team-leading ''A win will really mean a lotanother source said, whether only every four years, some of freshmen by choice as opposed seven rebounds per tilt. to us," he reflects. "Becausethe United States would want a those who must train hardest to by necessity," says Paxson. But the most important thing hey, they are UCLA."
rival Olympics to be held at the and longest to win a position on ''Coach Brown, on the other that can be said about this And even though it seems that 
same time as those in Moscow their nation's team were too hand, is forced to go with some game is that both teams need to some of the pollsters have or at another date to permit young for the last games and young people in key situations win it badly. forgotten about that, theathletes to participate in both. will be past their physical prime and tf our guards can force ''If we play real will out there players on both teams always
Officials said the White House before the next competition them to make mistakes then we then that will really get us seem to remember it whenever has received considerable sup­opens. should be able to take advan­rolling," offers Paxson. "I they play. port from within the United The sources said White House tage of that.'' States for a boycott of the counsel Lloyd Cutler has told the But no one as of yet has been Moscow summer Olympics, but president the administration able to take advanta,ge of Kiki 
State Department offictals have has no legal authority to order Vandeweghe. The 6-8 senior said most U.S. allies have been its team not to participate in the forward has been shooting at a cool toward participating in Soviet Union this summer be­solid .)81 clip and tossing 19.5 such a move. cause, although the team plays points per contest. The last However, British Prime Minis­under the national banner, it is time these two teams met he ter Margaret Thatcher declared organized by the private U.S. was the high point man for the her government's support yes­Olympic Committee and is not ballgame with 17 points and 7 
terday for moving the Olympic under government control. rebounds. Games from Moscow in retalia­U.S. members of the interna­"He's the best all-around tion for the Soviet intervention tional committee also have been player they've got and he has 
in Afghanistan. A boycott has cool toward a boycott. some super moves to the bas­
found sympathy, but little offi­The administration nonethe­ket," diagrams Paxson. "If we 
cial favor, among other NATO less has been actively seeking hope to beat UCLA we'll have allies. public support for a possible to neutralize Kiki' s effective-
Canadian Prime Minister Joe boycott and could put cons~der­ness. . 
Clark was the first Western able 1-~ressure on the commtttee Brown's remaining starters leader to call publicly for mov­to stay home or send the team include a pair of seniors; 6-7 ing the Games from the Soviet to an alternate site. James Wilkes (lOppg) at the 
other forward spot and 6-9 
Darrell Allums (6. 5 ppg) at the 
pivot. 
The Irish will counter with 
senior guards Rich Branning and Bill Hanzlik in the back­court and juniors Kelly Tripuck:;t 
Evansville mourns 
slain Gilligan family 
Tracy Jackson and · Orlando Woolridge up front. Branning,
EVANSVILLE, Ind. (AP) -Donald Ray Wallace Jr., 22, 
a native of Huntington Beach 
Patrick Gilligan and his family, of Evansville, is being held on CA (only a jumpshot away from 
victims of an execution-style four preliminary . cour~ts of 
Pauley Pavillion) has a mighty
slaying, were laid to rest i.n an murder in connectton wtth the impressive track record againstEvansville cemetery followmg a slayings. his boyhood heroes, having had funeral service of tears and Detectives from the county what many consider to be hissheriffs department said they
prayers. finest college game there last 
''Today is a very difficult day are questioning friends of year when he tallied 21 pointsWallace, to determine whether
for all of us," said the Rev. and dealt out five assists. This 
arrests

Theodore Tempel, who asked additional should be season he is Digger's most mourners at St. Theresa Church made. potent shooter with a .569 to let the Gilligans' "love and Many of the 400 mourners at percentage and 13.4 points perThursday's service sobbed
faith overshadow the tragedy of game. Hanzlik, recovering well 
quietly as Tempel told them the 

their deaths.'' from early season finger sur­
Patrick Gilligan. his wife family's death "is not the end 
gery, is averaging 9. 7 pointsTheresa, both 3u, ana thetr two of their lives." and four rebounds per contest, children, Lisa, ), and Gregory, ''Their passage from this while once again establishing4, w _;-e shot to death Mond~y world to the love of God himself asthe force to be rec­
.•:c;lH. Poh.::e ~.o~d the family celebrates the fulfillment of a koned with on defense.
promise given in their baptism ­

apparently surprisd a burglar In the forecourt,Tripuckaleads 
up~n returning home from an all scorers with a 1).4 ppg
[continued on page IOJ

ouung. average while Jackson is close 
• -... rJ. ,... __ ... ·--------·· ----­
L___________________________________________________________________________________________________ _ 
• • • Unranked Bruins 



The Daily Crossword 


\.} 
ACROSS  32  Is not  
1  Error  able to  
5  Substance  34  Path  
9 Depressed  37  Jan-,  
area  religious  
13 Chaotic  reformer  
14  Tennis  38  "-as an  

great elephant's 15 Kind of eye" sandwich 42 Mideast 16 "You -, and Initials I'll..." 43 Slithery 19 Guitar's 44 Luxurious 
kin 45 Husky shoe 20 -plexus 48 A Ludwig 21 Bridal patn 50 Llama's 22 Parent of home 
hockey 53 candy nut 24 "-White" 57 Sedate 26 Ruin 60 Ever 28 Franklin 62 Through: 
of song pref. 
~ 

All Rights Reserved 
~­
a. C.ru.R::t.A aJ 4-lA..TOLLA\4 
l::!ITS ~~~ ~~~ ll..l GS::>~IA .~: ~,.. 

}/ C.~ ~D C::::.aJ5oe, !.Mr Pee:.s eEL..EA,.se ,a...t:> 
~! 
~ ALL CF 1'l-4E AEr.oJE 

63 Improving 29 "Give us­
on progress day..." 66 Lily plant 30 Walpole or 67 Singer O'Brian 68 City on the 31 Bat wood 
Rhone 32 Scorch 69 Repair 33 Prefix with 70 Auxiliary drome 
verb 35 Lubricate 71 River of 36 "-sow, Europe so..." 38 Decrepit 
DOWN boat 1 Viper 39 Tear 2 BaS:<etball 40 Dam feature 
player 41 Eleanor or 3 City of Celeste Nigeria 46 Having a 
4 -poll special (comes to walk shore) 47 "The 
5 Irishman. King-" 6 Bandleader 49 Macho 
Jones 51 Bird 7 County 52 Hawaii or 8 Young sheep Alaska 9 Lourdes 54 "Swan Lake" 
feature character 10 Many popes 55 River of 11 Russian Africa 
range 56 Partners 12 Fashion of dits 13 Ticket end 57 Pretense 17 Did garden 58 Baked clay 
work 59 Like -of 18 Hit musical bricks 23 -Dimittis 61 Soon 25 Nothing: Sp. 64 Arrest 27 caen's 65 Units of 
river time: abbr. 
... Botnb 

[continued from page 1] 
The blast, which occurred four miles from Belfast, started a fire and sent terrified pass­engers, some burned and black­ened, jumping to the tracks and scrambling up embankments. 
''There was no warnin~-­these people had no chance,' a British Army spokesman said of the victims. 
Local residents opened their homes for the wounded. 
The three victims raised the official death toll to 2,007, including 13 this year, in the 10 1h -year Northern Irish con­flict, in which guerrillas of the Irish Republican Army have waged an underground war to end British rule and unite the predominantly Protestant pro­vince with the mainly Roman Catholic Irish Republic. 
Molarity 
originals disappear 
The popular campus comic strip Molarity by Michael Molinelli is not featured in today's paper because of the disappearance of a series of origmals from the South Dining Hall Wednesday. Anyone with any information concerning the cartoons is asked to please contact The Observer at #7471. 

Pastries 

Enormous uariety of Italian pastries euer! We carry it all starting from the ordinary donut to the famous Italian cannoli, but you deserue a change from the ordinary donut and roll and we can change it. 
Week&j~~ 

'fraee ~• ~~col! fJ'Ike  - 7:00  -12:0{btt¥  
Mtifri's Italian  

Celebrating it's 1st Anniversary and treats are 1Jn us 
. .JJ~I··t ...,. 
Notre Dame 

Cakes The most talked about cake is Macri's Italian torte. A 5 layer cake with your choice of 4 uarieties of cream. Nso seruing the best cream 
white cake at a price you ca:! afford. 
F'loo ~ 
-3 heg3 oh -ic 81t equioofeMt bt 006e6 -A • cake dai&J . FiW wbacet tliOC8UICCed 
Hfowloy. 

Now serving Espresso and cappuccino caffe 

Bakery LaSalle Ave. 

is the coffee lovers coffee 
520 E. LaSalle

Todoy'3 1pet.Ui CAKKO.C9 FREE DELIVERY ON CAMPUSI
South Bend Ph. 282-1010 

r 
• with any $10 order .,• 
-------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
1~.t ':.J~.... -..; 'j:,._ ..\..:".., ... \: ... ~:~ 'j;;","t t • ~·,s ...•'-1:.. ~ .'
,., f:.)Lt ••·. !1.._.. .....-~~­
ryr., <II 6~.... • .,,.......,,~..........,...._~l.r ,......,...._...,..,._.~_ ..._~.ll!oo......,,.._'f ............~.~..,_.••-.:A-t • .,.._~~;..-• • • • t ~-~·~---...~_,..liT,_,....... • ..........,..,.._.111' • Jl> .......... "¥ • • • -4-•-. ...,...,...• .;~-,:,~o.:r-.,-.-.....,...... \..._-.a,.:--.--......,._,_""l':'•.._~.,,~~,;'f!a.r.a• _ . (: ....rr-· _.( ~ ~ ...... ·a 'f ,,.., i · -;-., r~.-: 
The Observer -Sports Friday, January IB, l9SO ·~·;g~t ~-~'r-t 
Slumping icers return to ACC 
by Brian Beglane Collegiate Hockey Association. "By losing three of our last Sports Writer Notre Dame posted a 1-5 record four league games we ~1ave dug on the road the last three weeks a hole for ourselves in the 
Coach Lefty Smith and the and currently sports a . 6-8 standings. We are behind in Notre Dame hockey team return league record and an overall the loss column to every team to the friendly confines of the mark of 10-11. The upcoming above us but one, and that is Athletic and Convocation Cen­series with the Tigers will be going to force us into an uphill ter this weekend when they the first home appearance for battle the rest of the season. host the Tigers of Colorado Smith's skaters smce Dec. 9 The time to get things going is College. Faceoff both Friday and their first WCHA home thisweekend.'' and Saturday nights at the ACC series since Nov. 17. Colorado College lost and tied isscheduled for 7:30p.m. EST. · "It certainly will feel nice at Michigan last weekend and is 
The Irish are commg off an pl:~ying at home once again,'' in third place in the WCHA unsuccessful three-week road sa1d Smith, who is five victories with a 10-7-1 record. ] eff trip during which they fell to a':"ay from collecting his 200th Sauer's Tigers have 12 fresh­seventh place in the Western wm at Notre Dame. men and sophomores in the 
lineup, making them one of the youngest teams in the league. Dale Maksymyk, Gary Reinking and Bruce Aikens top Colorado
Irish runners await 
l College in scoring. '' Colorado College was the hottest team in the league just 
before the Christmas break,'' notes Smith. "Their goalie, by]ohn Smith Tom Frame, has been nothing 
indoor track season 
of middle distance runners,

Sports Writer s~ort of out.standing and pro­
paced by his All-American 2 

Vides a solid anchor to their
mile relay team. ] oining

Notre Dame's indoor track and Miranda and Aragon to pace defense. We have to bounce Coach Lefty Smith stares in se~ming disbeliefas his team 
field season gets into full swing back from this road trip and
the team are Pete Burger and slips lower and lower in the WCHA standings. [photo by
this Saturday as the Irish travel Colorado is going to make that
Tom Macauley. Greg Maurer] 
to West Lafayette, IN to com­quite a challenge.''
Piane is also encouraged by

pete in the Purdue lnvitational Notre Dame was swept by
his short and long distance

tournament. The meet will first-place North Dakota last 
runners. He will race Marc

consist entirely of individual week, 7-4 and 3-1, the third Irish wrestlers continue 
Novak and Carl Bicicchi in

events and no running team time the Irish have been swept
Saturday's two-mile event and 

score will be maintained. this year. The losses dropped
Matt Cato and Charlie Fox in

This will be the first time that Notre Dame·from a tie for fifth 
early season struggles
the three mile race.

the Irish will compete as a to sole possession of seventh 
team, as they send approxi­Tony Hatherly appears to be place. mately 35 athletes to Purdue, the leading miler and Rick "We did not play poorly by Bill Marquard "I really try to be optimistic " Rogers and Jim Slattery head Sports Wn'ter reflects Irish coach Ray Sepet~.
during the 1980 indoor season. against North Dakota,'' said 
Although, this is not the first the crop of 880 yard runners. Smith.' "Rather, mental mis­"Despite our record I have seen action for Notre Dame. Last Dave Bernards and Tim Tward­takes and momentary defensive The Notre Dame wrestling some improvement. We won Saturday Jay Miranda and zik lead the hurdlers. lapses did us in. North Dakota team, seeking to overcome a four of the ten matches at In the sprint events, Piane is the best team we have faced tough 0-3 · dual meet start, Illinois, whereas last year we
Chuck Arason traveled to Johnson City, TN, site of the forsees great things from Bill all year and is going to be hard dipped to an equally·frustrating managed just one time.'' 
East Tennessee Invitational. Ribera. to stop." 2-4 mark in winter break mat Senior Dave DiSabato con­The contest is one of the best "Based on early season per­The Irish were without the action. tinues to turn the heads of the indoor meets in the country and formances, Bill appears to be services of three players last The Irish opened their 1980 collective wrestling world 
it is held at one of the best the most improved sprinter on week: sophomore Dave Poulin, campaign with two encouraging having won all five of hi~ 
wins in a traditional quadran­
indoor tracks in the country, as the team." states Piane. measles; junior Scott Cameron matches over break to increase 
gular meet. The feisty grap­
the circumference stretches for In field events the Irish will sprained left knee; and fresh: his season mark to 15-1. The 
one-sixth of a mile. send Ahmad Kazimi and Brian man Rex Bellomy, fractured plers pinned DePauw 30-12 and flashy co-captain has jumped Miranda competed in the McAufflin to compete in the knuckle. All three remain upended Franklin 23-16, losing into first on the Irish all-time 1,000 meter run and finished triple jump. Perry Stow and qut;stionable for this week's only to perennial nemesis wrestling win list with 88 career 
Steve Chronert will handle the Wright State 25-16 ill the victories.
third in his heat with a time of senes. 
2:17, but he failed to qualify for pole vaulting. Both John The Irish also will be tryin~ to four-team tourney. Sepeta is more encouraged the finals. Kuzan and Frank Riely will be break their Friday night Jinx Yet the glory was short-lived about this weekend's home Aragon fared better as he putting the shot. against the Tigers. In league as the Irish dropped a 28-12 meet with Millikin, Wabash 
play this season on Friday decision the following day at and Washington on Saturday.
finished first with a 1:53.2 time The list could go on as to who Illinois and then absorbed a "This weekend won't be quite 
in his preliminary heat in the will determine the fortunes of nights, Notre Dame posts a 1-6 880 yard run; this race earned the 1980 team, but this week­record. On Saturdays, the Irish twin-killing at the hands of as vigorous a competition as 
him a place in the finals. He end's competition will allow are 5-2. Army (20-17) and Middle Ten­we've experienced ill the last nessee State (24-17) in Notre couple weeks," explains the
improved his time to 1:52.35 in Piane to s1ze up his talent. "It's hard to come up with an Dame's home opener last week­fifth-year mentor. "I really
the finals but had to settle for . Most every college in the state explanation for the lack of fifth place. of Indiana will be represented balance," said Smith. "But end. hope it's a welcome breather to 
A 44-5 drubbing at the hands
Coach ] oe Piane is optimistic with the exception of Indiana now we have to ignore it. We give the team some experience about the upcoming season. He University. Purdue, it appears, dug a hole for ourselves with of Indiana State closed out and confid.ence. " 
pre-semester action for the The quadrangualar faceoff is
has many reasons for his opti­will present the stiffest compe­this road trip, and the time to 
mism. He has a superb group tition for the Irish. start climbing out is now.'' Irish. slated for 1 p.m. in the ACC pit. 



----------~------------~---~--------'------..------­
Friday, January 18, 1980 -page 16 
Paxson questionable 

Unranked Bruins seek revenge 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Wn'tt!.r 
OK everybody, it's trivia time! (Applause, Applause!) 
Who can remember the last time the UCLA basketball team was not ranked in the top 20 of either major wire service poll? 
(tick--tick--tick--tick) Ok, time's up! Anyone have 
the answer? Too bad because neither do I. But anyway, so much has been 
written and said about the Notre Dame-UCLA rivalry that it's hard to be original--espec­ially when you have to do it twice aJear. Tomorrow, the Irish an the Bruins will meet for the 25th time in history and the second time this seasun. The first time they met, way back in 1979 B.F. (that's Before Finals) both teams were unde­feated, highly ranked and sup­remely confident. The Bruins were especially motivated. They actually believed they could beat Notre Dame on their home court--and you know what? They almost did... 

Except for John Paxson. It was Paxson, in his first en­F~eshman john Paxson lets go of his winning free throw counter with the legendary agamst UCLA in Notre Dame's 77-74 victory on Dec. 11. Uclans, that took what ap­
[photo by john Macor] peared to be the last despir­
~uper Bowl promises 'backer' battle 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Ever since the violent world of Sam Huff, there has been a special aura about professional football linebackers especially middle linebackers. 
The two men in the middle 10 Sunday's Super Bowl continue the traditior.. Make no mistake about it, Pittsburgh's jack Lambert and Jack Reynolds of Los Angeles are not to be trifled with. 
One of Lambert's pet observations of his profession is that quarterbacks ought to wear dresses. Reynolds' nickname is Hacksaw because he once used one to divide an automobile in half. 
Hmmm. 
'·Sure this is a violent game," said Lambert. "That's why I like it. That's why 80 million people will watch the Super Bowl on Sunday." 
If there is a hit to be made, you can expect Lambert to be in the vicinity. He led Pittsburgh with 119 solo tackles, 47 more than any other Steeler. Add his 46 assists and the total climbs 
to  165  - 64  more  than  any  
teammate.  
"That's  my  job,  isn't  it?"  

noted Lambert. Yes, sir, Mr. Lambert, it certainly is. 
Now, about Reynolds. The nickname came when he was in college at Tennessee. The Vols were on the verge of a Sugar Bowl invitation when they ran into Archie Manning and Mississippi. "He beat us 38-0, '' recalled Reynolds. ''You want to know what kind of day it was? We stopped him on the ~oal line on fourth and a half-1nch. So he fumbles into the end zone, they recover and it's a touchdown." 
These developments did not please Mr. Reynolds. When he returned to Tennessee he decided to take out his frustra-­

tion on an abandoned car. He 
sawed it in half. With a 
hacksaw. 

In case you're interested in 
technique, he attacked the auto 
scientifically. "I sawed it 
behind the door jamb, between 
the front and back seats,'' he 
explained. For the record, the 
task took eight hours and 13 
hacksaw blades. 

It was not the first rather 
bizarre adventure in which 
Reynolds has been involved. 
There was the time, for 
example, that his brother, Dick, 
was fooling with a bow and 
arrpw. 

"He shot it into the air and 
do you know where it landed?" 
asked Reynolds. ''Right 
there,'' he said, pointing to the 
top of his head. 

What happened then? 
"It just fell off," he sa!d. 
Naturally. 

Then there were the trees he 
climbed. ''I once climbed a tree 
without any branches," he 
said. 

"It was a bet. I won $2. I 
needed the money for some 
burgers. Another time, a 
bunch of us climbed a tree and 
another guy chopped it down. 
It wasn't bad. I was on top 
when we fell.'' 

When he was a kid, Reynolds and his friends played some­thing called ''The Tire Game. '' 
"We'd roll tires down a hill and you'd get points for stopping them," he said. "We gave them names -Tuffy, Baldy, Big Slim." 
Was it tough? 

"Nah. The only ones that hurt were the ones with the rims still on them," he said. 
Oh. 

It was, of course, fine prerar­ation for his current occupation. "We were all crazy at one time, he said. "But I've calmed down now. Most people think I'm nuts, .~ut they don't really know me. 
What they do know is that he is a professional football middle linebacker, ::: craft that often demands an unusual approach to Sunday afternoons. 
Just ask Sam Huff, the guy who started the tr .:lition. 

Tatum makes 'assassin'ofhimself 
Once again, it appears that the National 
Football League's colossal showcase, Super 
Bowl XIV, will be a colossal bore. Pete Rozelle is 
painfully finding out that no matter how much 
hype, the Super Bowl usually isn't. But at the 
present time, Rozelle is faced with a far more 
serious problem. The entire National Football 
League ts suffering from cancer. 

Jack Tatum, that Oakland Raider cheap-shot arti~t whose cowardice is matched only by his mouth, has finally admitted what everyone has known since he ever-so-delicately separated Darrell Stingley from his physical being--that there is, indeed a criminal element in the NFL and he is ir. 
Tatum, who is to the profession of football what Eiizabeth Ray is to the secretarial profession, has decided to cash in on the fast-buck book business with an appropriately titled work--They Call Me Assassin. 
At least he got the first three letters right. 
Once again Tatum is preying on the helpless. This time his target is the unbalanced people who would take delight in reading about how Sammy White's eyeballs rolled around in his head after being blindsided by Tatum. Or how Riley Odoms stopped breathing when felled by Oakland's answer to Son of Sam. 
Hopefully, Rozelle, who suspended Alex Karras and Paul Hornung for one year for betting on their own teams, will not follow the lead of his spineless counterpart in baseball's front office, Bowie Kuhn. 
Banning Tatum from professional football would certainly be a step in the right direction. 
arion shot with the clock Digger. When UCLA's on the 
showing fo.ur seconds and a schedule, Notre Dame's head 
75-74 Bruin lead. It was Paxson basketball coach goes on the 
who got fouled in the act of warpath. The word around the 
shoonng by fellow freshman basketball office, from his as-
Rod Foster, and it was Paxson, sistants on down is: Don't 
cool as a polar bear in an ice bother Digger when he's 
cube factory, who stepped to thinking about the Bruins. 
the line and neatly sank both 'Paxson thinks he knows the 
free throws to put the Irish up reason why. 
by one. "Because they're still very 
Now, like any great show, good," he emphasizes. "Sure 
there had to be an encore and it they've lost four games but 
came on the Bruins' inbound they have some good players 
pass which was stolen by. and they're verywell-coached. 
(spotlight please) John Paxson And of course there's the 
who was promptly fouled and tradition. It's only been five 
who promptly stepped to the years since they won their last 
line and did it again. national championship and 
''I just went to the line and their dynasty will stick in blocked everything out of my peoples' minds for a long mind," l,e told reporters who time." crowded the locker room Now, when both teams take looking for a scoop. When the the court tomorrow, none of last one was gone, Paxson, who that will make any difference. had played the role of "Mr. Oh, those ten nauonal cham­Cool" just perfectly to that pionship banners will be point, collapsed onto a stool and waving from the roof and John sighed, "Wow!" Wooden will be sitting some-
And not a better word des-where near courtside, but it's cribed his performance under the players on the bench that pressure that night. But, will make the difference. UCLA unfortunately for the Irish, is young, thin at spots and they Paxson will not have the oppor-haven't been playing well. runity to stage a rerun tomor-Notre Dame, on the other hand, row as a knee injury has him on is experienced, deep at every Digger's Doubtful list for the posinon but they haven't been game at Pauley Pavillion. pl<J.ying well either. Paxson 
"If there's any way I can play, thinks a difference in the game I ~ill play," assures Paxson might be at the guard spots. who admits that just seeing "That's their strength," he 
Pauley· Pavillion will ~et him points out. ''They have a lot of motivated. ''Theres JUSt no quickness in the backcourt and way you can't be ready to play they play a lot of different UCLA--no matter what their people back there." In all record is. Everyone connected probability, Coach Larry Brown with the team acts different will start out with SO('homore when we're getting ready to Tyren Naulls (5. 7 pomts per play them. The coaches get us game) and freshman speedster more prepared than any other Rod Foster (9.3 ppg). Rumor game of the season and all the however has it that the Irish will players--even the upperclass-also see a lot of rookies, men who have really played in Michael Holton (3.6 ppg) and some big games--get excited." 
And Digger. Don't forget [continued on page 13] 

Craig 
Chval 
Sports Writer 

And a court order turning over the profits from 
his public confession to Darrell Stingley would 
be another. (See Hackbart v. Clark for a legal 
precedent.) 

Other than the obvious get-rich-quick motive, it 
is hard to fathom why Tatum would write such a 
book. The timing, to say the least, was poor. 
With Tatum still active, at least until Roadie 
makes a decision, he will be taking his life in his 
hands each time he steps on the field. 
But back to the problem at hand, namely 
dealing with perhaps the most appalling sports 
item stnce the Black Sox Scandal of 1919. 
By all means, Rozelle should make sure Tatum never sets foot on an NFL playing field as long as he lives. · 
There is considerable doubt, however, whether Tatum has enough humanity, compassion or intelligence to fully comprehend such an action. We must communicate to Jack on his own level. 
The idea that first struck my mind was to put Tatum before a firing squad at halftime of the Super Bowl in Pasadena. But that would be too qutck, too simple and too painless. 
So I'm accepting suggesuons. How would you deal with Jack Tatum, subhuman? Send your ideas to 439 Keenan Hall, and the best ones will be printed at a later date. 
Remember, creativity counts. 





