, , , St, Ed'sfire -page 14 

VOL. XV,NO. 2 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY,AUGUST 26, 1980 
Who'snext? 
Goose's closes 
by john M. Higgins 

One local bar closed over the summer and another is faced with revocation of its liquor license for allegedly serving alcohol to minors on its premises. 
The Goose's Nest Tavern closed after Richard Goose, who leased both the business and the liquor license from owner Frank Bilello, failed to meet payments on his lease. According to Bilello, Goose began to experience "monetary difficulties" with the business earlier this year and failed to meet payments due on the lease. 
As as result, control of the business reverts to him, Bilello said, but he's not interested in continuing operation of Goose's. 
"I've been with it for over 25 years," he said, "and I don't want the hassle anymore." 
Billello claimed to have received several offers concerning the pruchase of the bar but, he said they "don't have the money" necessary to aquire the operation. 
Billello said that the bar could be a profitable business. "It's probably the best location in the city of South Bend," he said. "Under the proper management," meaning not serving minors, "it would be a gold mine.'' 
A South Bend building code may now prohibit Goose's from reopening as a bar. The regulation of the operation of bars a liquor stores in South Bend falls under what is known as a ''controlled­use ordinance." Under this ordinance, no "controlled-use establishment," that is one whose access is restricted by age, can be located within 1000 feet of another controlled-use establishment. 
Establishments existing before the ordinance was enacted in 1977, such as Goose's and the Eddy Street bars, are generally unaffected. 
However, in the e;ent that a bar located within 1000 feet of another bar closes down for a period of time which is deemed to be an "interruption ofuse" of the bar, that bar cannot reopen. 
Neither Billello nor the South Bend City Engineering Department could come up with the exact distance between the bars. City officials also could not define what constitutes an "interrupted" period of time. 
''We just can't say for sure,'' said South Bend City Attorney Richard Hill. "The longer it gets the easier it is to determine if use has been interrupted.'' 
In other developments over the summer, the state Alcoholic Beverage' Commission (ABC) held a hearing in Indianapolis last month concerning the localABC's decision last Aprol not to renew the liquor license of Corby's Tavern. At that hearing three witnesses 
testified  for  five  hours.  No  decision  was  
rendered.  
Another  hearing  is  set for  Thursday  in  

Indianapolis. Members of the local ABC and residents of the northeast neighborhood around Corby's are expected to testify. 
The proceedings stem from charges that Corby's has served alcoholic beverages to minors in violation of Indiana law. In addition, residents of the neighborhood around Corby's 
(continued on page 9) 

Anderson names ~ate' 
WASHINGTON (AP) Patrick). Lucey, declaring that he is "not a champion of lost causes or hopeless uusades, became Independent candidate 
John  B.  Anderson's  vice  
pre!tidential  running  mate  
yesterday.  

"1 beleive he has a real chance to win this election," the former Democratic governor of Wisconsin said standing alongside Anderson, a Repub­lican congressman from Illinois. 
Lucey, a lifelong liberal Democrat, was selected by Anderson after weeks of a search which included other, more prominent Democrats. 
In a news conference at the National Press Club, LuCf~Y conceded, "There are some differences" between him and Anderson on some issues, including labor and proposals for federalized health care programs." 
But Lucey said he was sur­prised more by the similarities than the differences. 
From October until mid August Democratic National Convention in New York, Lucey was National Deputy Campaign manager in Sen. 
edward Kennedy's unsuccess­Helms ar1cl Phyllis Schafly and ful attempt lo replace President the Tatwan lobby." Carter as his party's presidential Lucey said he expects to be a 
nominee. "full partner" in Anderson s 
Anderson has been actively campaign, appealing main.ly to seeking the support of labor groups and urban areas. Kennedv ' supporters After one unsuccessful r•1n dissatisfied with Carter's for governor, he was elected renomination; but Lucey said governor in 1971 and re-elected he had not spoken with in 1975. 
Sen. Hubert H. Humphrty in 
1960, and then working actively 
for Robert Kennedy in 1968. LOS ANGeLeS (AP)­
At the news conference Ronald Reagan said yesterday
Lucey said his had been "a the present United States 
difficult and painful decision. I liaison office in T .tiwan would 
remain a Democrat. 
meet his standard for relations "I have not abandoned the with the government of the Democratic Party, to which I island if what he called "the have devoted my political life." petty practices of the Carter 
With his wife Jean at his side 
administration" in its and a throng of cheering implementation were elimina­Anderson supporters in the ted. 
room, Lucey said, "John Attempting to patch over Anderson has a real chance; but apparent contradictions .Jimmy Carter has no real chance between his own Taiwan · 
at all." 
statements and the assurances 
Republican Ronald Reagan's which his vice presidentialelection, Lucey said, "would running mate, George Bush, turn this country over to Jesse gave leaders of the Peoples 

GDANSK, POLAND (AP)­Jubilant strikers annonced last night that the beleagurered communist government had 
bowed  to  their  demand  that  
telephone  communications  be·  
restored  betwee·n  strike­ 

paralyzed northern Poland and the rest of the country. 
They said the abrupt reversal by government negotiators meant talks could resume today on the other economic and political demands pressed by some 150,000 striking workers at shipyards and other indust­ries along the Baltic Coast. 
Anna Walentinovic, a strike leader, said telephone lines were tested immediately and they were working. She said that for the first time in at least a week, a telephone call from this port city to Warsaw went through in about five minutes. 
Earlier, negotiations broke down when the government refused to restore telephone and telex communications. 
Lech Badowski, a spokesman for the Inter-Factory Strike Committee, told a hastily called news conference late yesterday that the ghovernment had back­ed down and telephone service would be restored. He said the strike commitree would meet at 10 a.m. today (4 a.m. ED1) and a new round of talks with the government would follow. 
It was seen as another major concession by Communist Party leader Edward Gierek, who had fired his premier and a number of other top officials Sunday in an effort to appease the strikers. 
The government changed its stand after workers vehemently refused to continue negotiat­ions until there was full tele­phone service. Leszek Wale sa. 
(mntirmed on pt~ge 7) 

Kennedy about his decision to run with Anderson. 
Taiwan
Lucey had a long association with the Kennedy family; first supporting the late John F. Kennedy for president over 


Reagan: present setup OK 
Republic of China last week in Peking, the Republican presidential nominee said the contradictions were caused by "a distortion of my position that has been picked up by the Chinese press." 
However, Reagan appeared to retreat from his statement in an Aug. 16 news conference that he advocates a "govern­ment-to-government relationship" with Taiwan rather than the present private foundation which now repre­sents the United States on Taiwan. 
That statement was interpreted by the official Chinese communist press as a return to a "two-China" policy that is unacceptable to the Peking government. 
"I used the word 'official' ­
that I would favor an official relationship with them," Reagan said, adding that "the Taiwan Relations Act did not use the word 'official'. Neither does it use the word 'unoffi­cial'." 
The Republican presidential candidate, describing the flap as a matter of serpantics, 
(continued on page 10) 

Tuesday, August 26,1980 -page 2 
News Brie/§ 
~==========~============================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
A Libyan warship forced the closing of a Texaco offshore oil rig in the Mediterranean Sea by sailing up to the drilling platform and threatening oilmen with reprisals for allegedly working illegally in Libyan waters, company" offi~ials said yesterday. The rig is on the Medina bank south ofMalta, an area claimed by Libya. The Medina bank forms part ofMalta's continental shelf, and Libya refuses to recognize Mcllta' s right to drill there. But after a seven-year suspension ofdrilling, Malta recently gave the go-ahead for resumed exploration. Texaco sub-contracted with Italy's state energy concern, hnte Nazionale Idrocarburi (bNI), to do the work. After the reported Libyan threats last week, bNI shut down the venture until the dispute can be settled, officials said. 
Direct air service between the u.s. and mainland China was opened up to proposals from U.S. airlines by the Civil Aeronautics Board (CAB) yesterday for the first time since 1949. The Board said it was acting in anticipation of negotiations succeeding this fall between the United States and the Peoples Republic ofChina onan air service agreement. The talks have been underway since April. Flights from the United States will initiate in New York, with stops at San Francisco, Honolulu, Japan, Shanghai and Peking, the Board said. The CAB said a second route may be agreed on later. 
Republican tax cutcallsarenotthewayto fight tlie current recession and future downturns in the economy, according to Congressional economic experts. Those proposals, said the Joint bconomic Committee in a report issued Sunday, are "hit-or-miss" reactions that treat recessions as "short-term emergencies. The panel said Congress· should take the long-term view, including using half of a proposed tax cut next year to increase productivity, restructuring job programs to provide workers with the skills likely to be needed in the 1980s, and using governmental incentives to have private industry hire untrained workers and get school dropouts back to the classroom. 
stock 0 ricesedged lower yesterday amid reports of lower auto sates and larger federal budget .deficits. The big domestic automakers said mid-August sales were 36 percent lower than a year ago, but the rate was somewhat better than in early August and some analysts saw signs ofa slow recovery in sales. 
The House voted 365-7 yesterday declare it a "national commitment" to complete a demon­stration nuclear fision power plant by the end of the century. 
The hill, which now goes to the Senate, embarks a $434.5 million installment for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1, while envisioningan ultimate $20 billion federal commitment toward meeting the goal. 
The bill declares that it is the policy of the U.S. to be committed to build a fusion demonstration plant by the end of the century with an interim test facility by 1987. 
Crumbling bricks; falling glass and a spreading viper snake sighted en route to the kitchen aren't exactly adding up to a four-star rating for the bnglish grade­school cafeteria. 
In fact, ifconditions at the cafeteria don't improve, children may be kept out of school altogether, warns one mother, who calls it "the worst mistreatment of children I've ever seen." 
Last week a spreading viper snake reportedly was killed on the steps leading down to the cafeteria. PrincipalJohn Willis said that the snake was merely searching for cooler quarters, however, his explanation failed to satisfy many irate parents who vowed to keep their children home from classes. 
, 

It is stories like these from places like"bnglish, Indiana" that help put South Dining Hall dinners in perspective. 
A gay ri2hts orooosal will be discussed next month oy the l'iiloAito:Cal., Gty Council, although Santa Clara County voters rejected a similar ordinance recently. 
The measure, supportedby the human relations commission, would establish civil penalties for violating homosexuals' rights to obtain jobs and housing. 
Partly cloudv todav through tomorrow with a 20 percent chance o~ain both nights. Highs today in the mid 80s. Lows tonight in the mid 60s. Highs tomorrow in the low 80s. 
Inside Tuesday 
Wobbly first steps-co~puter style 

"How was your summer?" had a ·strong rival this year for the distinction of being the most­asked question among returning domers. The upstart this year was "Where's The Observer?" And admittedly, especially for fresh­men, the question was a good one. At least it was a bit less trite and predictable. Indeed, why didn't The Observer come out on Saturday like it was supposed to? 
Well, the purpose of this column is to get right to the subjective point of issues on campus, so you can throw out the theories which blamed our tardiness on "heavy partying" or diversionary dunes trips. The first few issues are usually more than a little bit rocky due to the defections of seniors and the second thoughts of heavy sleep­ers, but the issue that never was last Saturday had a different nemesis. 
The Observer has computerized a large part ofits operations, and a lot of people expected an overnight lightning-quick trans­ition to the 21st century. Itdidn't happen. Needless to say, this writer and many ofmy associates were too busy playing · with terminals and printersatthe time when the computer salesman told everybody not to expect miracles overnight. 
Miracles didn't come Friday night when we were laying out the paper, and I'm not going to promise any for the near future. But the computer system, given the time to be worn in and learned by the staff, should en­able us to present you with a more timely, accurate, aad as­thetically-pleasing product each weekday. 
In fact, with the potential for speeded word processing and design encompassed in our sys­tem, we are even tenatively considering publishing Saturday editions on football weekends. 
Basically-and the computer experts on the staffare probably going to shoot me for this description-our system con­sists of four major components: 

Design Editor . .. Ryan Ver Berkmoes Design Assistant . ....... Bill Keenan Design Staff ......... Colleen Sloan Kathy Vick Night Technician. .... John Chaussee Ann Monaghan Paul Mullaney News Editors . ....... John McGrath Mark Rust Copy Editor . .' ......... Lynne Daley Editorials Layout . .... Mike Onufrak Features Layout ...... Molly Woulfe Sports Layout . ..... Michael Ortman Ad Design. ......... Mike Holsinger Dierdre Murphy Jim Rudd Mary Pat hllis Typists ................ Cindy Jones Jim Rudd Pam Degnan Photographer . ......... Greg Maurer 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 

46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved. 
John 
McGrath 
News Editor 

computer terminals where sto­
ries are written and edited; the 
central computer unit which is 
essentially the heart ofthe setup; 
a printer which enables both the 
business and editorial depart­
ments to print up hard copy of 
computer read-outs; and the 
word processor which translates 
all stories done on the computer 
into type ready for layout. 

Pretty straightforward? In the­ory, yes. In practice, not quite. bach of the systems have dif­ferent operating programs, and just like four people speaking different languages, the com­puters require translating com-, mands which tie everything to­gether. 
Command translation for the .interface between components was a large part of the difficulty with the first issue. Some human error was also involved, but in all, the dry run of the system hope­fully has served to remove the remaining kinks. 
Granted, the issue that wasn't didn't exactly break time re­cords, but you do have to give us credit for delivering our • first issue -and I might add, a very respectable one-before many students even arrived on cam­pus. Computerization is a big step for an independent news­paper. bspecially when we paid for, installed, programmed, and operate the entire system with absolutely no assistance finan­cially or otherwise from the University. 
Not every college student is a computer whiz, but we're lear­ning. You may or may not be seeing the differences already. Although much of the work we've been doing is strictly be­hind-the-scenes in nature, we hope that in the future you, the reader, will be appreciating our step forward. Just don't be look­ing for a giant leap right away. 
Student football ticket distribution 
Seniors who have purchased tomorrow, while the remainder season football tickets for the of tickets will be distributed upcoming season may pick up before the week's end. Further their tickets today at the second-information will follow in The floor ticket windows ofthe ACC. Observer. 
Juniors may receive their tickets 
Wygant Floral CO.Inc. ) 327 Lincolnway 
"gQowettg /ptt aQQ OCCOf!LOtlf!" Come in and browse 


Queen~gCagtQe 
w ID4t iKnigltts 
LET THE STAFF AT QUEEN'S CASTLE GETYOUREADYFORSCHOOL WITH OUR "BACK 
TO 54533 Terrace Lane SCHOOL 
Across form Martins on State Rd. 23 SPECIAL'' 
272-0312 
CLOSED MONDAY 
• 1UES.,WED. 8:30-5:30 THURS., FRI. 8:30-8:30 Saturday 8:30-5:30 
I;-;o~:lli"ii7;-~~-1 
OF A PERM WE OFFER I 

ssoooFF I 
WITH THIS COUPON I 



The Observer Tuesday, August 26, 1980 -page 3 
SANDOCK'S FURNITURE, CARPET-WAY 

SALE HOURS: 







ALL CARPET 

••• of all 1st quality LEES and CABIN CRAFTS carpeting '" S'
*APAIIOEMOIIIUM OF VAlUE! * CHOOSE FROM 1700 PIECE • 
*A REVELRY OF SAVING! 
Colo..al Lees! Titanic Cabin Crafts! The ware­houM of theM giants were glutted with remnantJ, loaded with roH-ends, pieces accumulated from their greatest season ever, In such profusion as to throttle their operations --completely. They had to ..n and MR quickly -and that's wt..n "CARPET-WAY" stepped ln. With a dramatic, hard cash wipe-out offer, we bought every single piece we could at bare rock-bottom -and now we pall 
the savings on to youl 
PERFECT FOR • • • 
BEDROOMS BATHROOMS KITCHENS BASEMENTS 
BUY NOW FOR ••• FLOORS WALLS STEPS DECKS 

Sorry No lay-a-way, No hoW orWI, No flh-or IIICIII orden, AI sullfoct to prior IICIIo, AI priclnt Is ­ccnh cmcl carry baalt, AI cllmonaloat' -• .......,__ 
FREE FRONT DOOR PARKING 

*PLEASE -NO DEALERS 
• EVERY STYLE IMAGINABLE 
Shag, twist, plush, loop, tw_d, 
cut/uncut, mlltl-level fleured 

• BRING YOUR ROOM SIZES 
Snap up these values on the spat 
• LEES -CABIN CRAFTS QUALITY 
Our Country's finest, most famous mills 
DELIVERY AVAILABLE 
Moderate Charge 

INSTALLATION AVAILABLE 
IDEAL fOR ••• 

TRAILERS COnAGES CLOSETS STATION WAGONS 
t......... FINANCING 
• AVAILABLE 
·­

PERFECT FOR • • 
,DORMITORIES APARTMENTS STUDY ROOMS ANY ROOMS 
OTHER REMNANT GROUPS NOT LISTm 
• EVERY COLOR IMAGINABLE 
lv~W)' c...... ,_.,u Orten...
hill .......,_ .............
AJI'ricOI Saddle A•ocodo Abaln.... Gardenia 
....... ......., 
LJn. ........ ~~Raden Amberwlow ...........
""­

Jade ......... llueiMM ....lalda
Aaaloo 

c.n•• l'aprlka latlleGraon
..,....
Colto Saville Hyacinth Cloudy Jade

Olivo C-• JOft'lllll Hollotrope ,,..,...c ..-
GrMn 
No-• 
•.......lu.

..... Jl'urpla H-y c-··•... 
O..clenOIIvo

c...,.l Aatac lronae lvyGr-n A11tvmn M...nlo M_...,ln Montav• Santi
Iron•• White ...al Saddle 
OcoanG..._ M11fflnh... ,.,.... ol .. White G...­
Ill...

Aaur• M­
AREA'S LARGEST CAiiPET SPECIALTY STORE 
0 ST MARY's) 

31 (H•wAY BETWEEN N.D. AN • DIRECTIONS: TAKE, U.S. SAME S•oE oF H•wAY AS N.D. 50760 3 NoRTH TO SANDOCK S, ON South Bend, Indiana •.. next door to Sandock s Fumltu 
----~ ~ -~~~------~-----~ --~~~-----~­
The Observer Tuesday, August 26, 1980 -page 4 

Filmingstartson Roclrne special 
by John M. McGrath News Editor 
The Notre Dame campus became a movie set yesterday 
· morning when filming started on a documentary based on the life of legendary Fighting Irish football coach Knute Rockne. The host ofthe documentary, actor Cliff Robertson, arrived on campus yesterday at 8 a.m. Comco Productions of Los Angeles is producing the pro­gram, which will be aired as part 

• " c co0 
-z co
llll'<x:q­
.. (!) <{ 
.. -z 
=I<{
• u_ 
-" • I ~0 z 
.. 1-• 
.. a: 0 
oz 
0 z~ 
I~~ 
• :::> 0 
en 


r-------,
I I 
I I I !: I
I 0 V# z I
len <Co I 19cn C: ~I ~~~ g 81 
I~N ,... ~I lc~ ~ i!: I II-:i: X I
I 0 t: I
1,... 3= ~I 

IL-------JI 
of the American Life Styl~ series for independent distribu­tion in 1981 to television stations nationwide. 
According to Jay Kane of Notre Dame Information Ser­vices, Comco has sent appro­ximately 15 production crew members to carry out the filming. 
Filming will last five days. The schedule calls for filming at Notre Dame stadium, a struc­ture which itself was designed by Rockne. Filming will also take place at other locations around campus later in the week, as well as in South Bend. · 
Knute Rockne coached football at Notre Dame from 1918 until his.death in 1930. 

Confused Miami gunman kills two, wounds another 
MIAMI (AP) -As hundreds 
of people looked on, a 33-year­
old manshotand killed two men 
at a minor league baseball game 
and wounded another in what 
apparently was a case of mis­
taken identity, police said. 
The incident occurred Mon­
day between games ofa double­
header between 1 the Miami 
Orioles and the Port Lauderdale 
Yankees, both members of the 
Florida State League. About524 
peope were attending the 
game, team officials said. 
Police saidJose Tomas-Perez was arrested and charged with two counts of murder, one count ofattempted murder and one count ofthe use ofa firearm in the commission of a felony. 
Miami homicide Detective Jimmy ·Beall said the gunman entered Miami stadium about 
9:27 p.m. and approached Jose Angel Garcia, 43, who was standing in an aisle with his small son ready to leave, the policeman said. 
Then the man drew a . 38­caliber revolver and fired, graz­ing Garcia's neck, Beall said , Garcia was taken to Jackson Memorial hospital where he was listed in satisfactory condition. 
"The first guy he shot he thought was someone who had 
8-5 MON.-SAT~ 21 9-283-4395 EVENINGS BY APPT. 

UNIVERSITY HAIR STYLISTS 
FULL SERVICE UNISEX CENTER HAIR CUTTING SPECIALISTS 
BADIN HALL NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 46556 
ANNOUNCING 

THE STEPANMALL 
in the STEPANCENTER 
• 
from9-5 Thurs., Aug 28 & Fri. Aug 29 

furniture . plants artprints applzances lumber carpets .• •and more 
Don'tMiss It! 
Sponsored by the Student Union Services Comission 

been talking to one of the wo­men in his family-his sister-in­law, I think," said Beall. "He wasn't." 
Witnesses told police the gun­man began to walk out of the stadium when bdward Hun­toon, 23, and Charles Matanis pursued him, Beall said. 
"They probably attempted to stop him physically," Beall said. 
The gunman opened fire on the unarmed men, the detective said. Huntoon died at the scene and Matanis died minutes later at Jackson Memorial Hospital, Police sid. 
"It all, happened so fast. The fans didn't have a chance t• react," said Bob Wild, executivt director for the Miami Orioles, who tried to revive one of the dying men with mouth-to­mouth resuscitation. "I'm kind of shocked by the thing." 
Tomas-Perez was arrested at his home nearby, Beall said. The second game of doubleheader proceeded without incident af­ter a five-minute delay while police examined the site of the shooting, Wild said. 

Earn BIG Bucks! 
Bean Observer layout person callAnn at 8661 or 7 471 

Seen here is the main entrance to Vtlla Angela, the temporary homefor 34freshmen women. The building is located west ofthe GolfCourse across 

----------------------------------,-------------­
The Observer Tuesday, August 26, 1980 -page 5 
-~-~---~­



Bold attacks haunt elderly 
EVANSVILLE, IND. (AP) ­Ac least 10 times chis summer, young assailants have invaded che homes of Evansville's old people, causing significant physical and emotional damage for very little gain. 
Police investigators say they have no real explanation for the rapid increase in the crimes. But as long as the young continue to prey on the old, the elderly are forced to change the way they live. 
"The problem is, they (old people) were raised in a dif­ferent era-when a handshake meant something and every­body was trustworthy,'' said Sgt. Clarence Shepard of the Evansville Police Department. 
No longer. "I used to be really friendly with a lot of neighborhood youths, but they soon turned on me and have made several unsuccessful at­tempts to break into my house," said resident Marian Hudson. 
''They have made me so afraid that I have made my house criminal proof and I don't befriend any~ne anymore.'' 
Another elderly woman bought a gun and paid a man to show her how to use it. "It helps knowing I can use it if I have to, but my real worry is that I'11 be burglarized agian and have the need to use it," she said. 
Most residents are hoping common sense will insure their safety. ''I'm -not worried as long as I do what I'm supposed to do, " a West Side resident says. "I keep the doors locked at all times and I never answer to anyone I don't know." 
Police inspector Richard Tenbarge said the nature of the assaults plaguing inner city residents has intensified the problem. 
. He said the elderly usually are assaulted during the day, by young boys whose neat appearance is disarming to 


From power tools to primitive methods, creative ccnstuction abounds in the dorms. (photo by Greg Maurer) 
' 
Millions start class as integration drags 
by The Associate Press 
Legal wrangling over inte­gration programs drags on in scattered cities across che country as millions of children get ready for the opening of school next month. 
In some places, the court arguments involve suits filed years ago. In Detroit and Dallas, for example, integration cases chat started in 1970 are still unsettled. 
An Associated Press spot check also showed that several cities are implementing new programs in an effort to carry out court orders to integrate classrooms. 
The Kansas City, Kan., school district is expanding a busing program that bt"gan three years ago. 
The Los Angeles board of education has asked the state Supreme Court to overturn a lower cort order involving wide­spread busing. 
About 27,000 of the 224,000 students in the Detroit school system already are bused to class, and an appeals court has ruled the program should be expanded. 
Complicating the Detroit case is a dispute about who should preside and an argument about whether Hispanic students should be considered members of a minority group under the integration plan. 
Dallas public schools are operating und<;r an integration order issued by U.S. Judge William Taylor in 1976. But the legal arguments continue. Magnet schools-thoS'e de­signed to draw students volun­tarily-are the focus of new integration efforts in Buffalo, 
N.Y. The changed date to a 1976 ruling in which U.S. District Judge John T. Curtin found the school board and the city's Common Council guilty of maintaining segregated school system. 
their victims. 
''They know something about their victims. They know they are old and not able to defend themselves,'' Ten barge added. ''They are taking advantage of the situation with one or both of their parents working-no one really knows what they are doing and where they are." 
Tenbarge said police are making headway, and have received information from people claiming to know youths involved in some of the inci­dents. 
Meanwhile, authorities are advising the city's elderly to install dead-bolt locks on all outside doors, to take pre­cautions while doing errands involving cash, and to watch out for their neighbors. 


rRefr.
tgerators 

dorm room size students rates 

CALL 
TAYLOR 







RENTAL 

277-2190 
1427 N. Ironwood~ 



The Observer Tuesday, August 26, 1980 -page 6 


Court fines local officials 
by the Associated Press Richardson onJune 6 to officially Butler's income producind prop­In a rare joint session, the gain custody of her daughter. 
erty is tax-exempt, provided that 

Indiana Supreme Court joined She faced a prosecution petition the income was used to maintain forces with the State Court of that sought to make Michelle a the Unive rsity itsel£ Appeals to fine a Daviess County ward of the court, filed by Sullivan reversed an earlier 
Judge and the Pike County McGaughny. decision which denied the ex­
Prosecutor for contempt. After that petition was filed, emption. 
Chief Justice Richard Givan Richardson disqualified himself said Daviess CircuitJudgeJames · and named Arthur as special Atthur, Pike County Prosecutor Judge in the case. erry McGaughny, and Attorney Court documents allege Thomas Grey were fined $500 Arthur, McGaughny, Lemond, 
Hammond 

Monday on Contempt charges and Gray, Lemond's lawyer con­stemming from the two-year old. spired to circumvent the order of custody battle involving di­Appeals court. 

pollution

vorced parents for a 12 year old Judge Givan ruled Lemond not girl. guilty of the contempt charge 
spans rainbow

The actions of the judge, pro­because he was acting on the secutor, and attorney did not advice of his lawyer. 
HAMMOND, Ind. (AP) ­merit further by the disciplinary In another ruling, the state Federal officials say 15,00Q­commission or the commision Appeals Court found that Butler cubic-foot mounds of asbestos 

on judicial qualifications, Given University qualifies for a special pose a health threat to residents said. tax exemption on the rental i­and workers, and they've filed On June 18 the two courts ncome ofits real estate, based on suit against an bast Chicagoordered barl Lemond of Pike an Indiana law ·dating back to refinery and a demolition oper­County to grant custody of his 1850. 
ator who they say created the daughter Michelle to her moth­Second District Judge Patrick piles.

er, Mrs.Jeanne McCormick. Mrs. Sullivan ruled that the 1850 Meanwhile, the U.S. environ­McCormick appeared before legislature approved Butler's mental Protection agency is try­Pike Circuit Judge James charter, which stipulates that ing to discover who dumped raw 
St. Joe Bank 
the way again 




our new 
The 15-22 Account is designed especially for Notre Dame and St. Mary's students who need low cost checking services. The 15-22 Account has a service fee of $1.00 per month and there are no charges for the first 10 checks written. After that. you pay just 10Q: per check. AND, your checks will be imprinted with the Notre Dame monogram and St. Mary's insignia. 
We realize that as a student your resources may be limited. Therefore we're providing this low cost checking service to help you keep your budget in b,plance. The specially-discounted 15-22 Account is available to you until you reach 22 years of age 
We ·have offices all over St. Joseph County but those listed below are the most convenient to the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses. Open your 
15-22 Account soon. Main Office... River Bend Plaza at Jefferson, downtown (a half block from the bus terminal) 
Roseland... U.S. 31 North at Darden Road University Park... St8te Route 23 
at Cleveland Road Georgetown... 5230S Emr• ons Road 


ftJOSEPBIIDIC 

SIIITBBEND 
MEMBER FDIC 
sewage into Lake Michigan. The sewage caused a bacteria count 50,000 times higher than the permissible limit and resulted in the closing of Chicago beaches last week. 
bPA offic:ials say they are in­vestigating Indiana lakefront communities, including Ham­mond, Gary and Michigan City, in their efforts to find the source of the pollution. 
Chicago's Metropolitan Sani­tary Distric_t charged last week that Hammond was responsible for the pollution, which included grease balls as long as a foot in diameter. But Joseph A. Perry, managing engineer of the Ham­mond Sanitary District, said it was unlikely. 
Cities Service Oil Co., along with Lloyd Hodges of hast Chicago, a demolition firm, were charged Monday for their han­dling of asbestos at a refinery demolition site, bPA Region 5 DirectorJohn McQuire said. 
The suit, filed in U.S. District Court in Hammond, charges asbestos stripped from the re­finery and piled in mounds is uncovered and could easily be­come airborne. 
The suit seeks a halt to dem­olition activites, a plan to remove asbestos from the site, weekly progress reports and a bond to ensure proper cleanup. 
The site was inspe~ted by hPA 
(continued nn page 8) 


Before... 
Relishing his last moments ofpurely ciuilian status, this intrepid youth a­waits the inevitable. Turn to page B. 



The Observer Tuesday, August 26~ 1980 -page 7 
Discountsdiscontinued riii'Lio'i'i"iiii"iiiDD'ii I Steelmakers raise prices • 
PIITSBURGH(AP) -More of the nation's largest steel com­panie~ s~id yesterday. t.hat t~ey will ehmtoate compettttve pnce discounting on some products and raise base prices on others. 
Armco Steel Co., the seventh largest U.S. steelmaker, was the only one to eliminate dis­counts without raising base pnces. 
The discounts, offered "strictly for competitive rea­sons,'' represented a reduction of $23 per ton, a Armoco spokesman said. . 
Pittsburgh-based National Steel Corp. said that effective with shipments Oct. 1, it will rescind the temporary allow­ances off list price for flat rolled products. . 
National Steel, founh-larsest in the domestic industry, satd it will increase prices on carbon and hi~h strength plates effec­tive wtth shipmetns of Oct. 5. 
• • • Poles ----------·-­
(am firmed (rom pflge I) 
chairman of the joim strike 
commitee, had asked some 600 
, worker delegates in the occup­
' ied Lenin shipyard if they would drop that demand and they shouted, "No! No! No!" The government blocked most telephone and teles com­munications between Gdansk and the rest of Poland soon after the Shipyard workers here 
, went on strike: Aug 14. Other walkouts protesting the regime's bid to end costly meat subsidies-and thereby raise meat prices-mushroomed into the nation's most serious labor crisis in a decade. In Warsaw, 16 dissidents from the Committee for Social Self-Defense were still being held by police. The government began arresting dissidems last Wednesday after allowing them to provide information on the strikes to Western journalists for weeks. Jacek Kuron, leader of the group, and others have been held for more than 48 hours, the statutory limit for detention without charge. Although the Gdansk talks were stalled, dissident sources reported progress between government negotiators and strikers in the western port of Szczecin. There were no details. 
The government's chief negotiator, First Deputy Premier Aieczyslaw Jagielski, had come to Gdansk from Warsaw for a second face-to­face meeting with the strikers. Strike leaders held an unpre­cedented ftrst session with Jagielski Saturday. 
Jagielski's return to Gdansk followed a series of high-level meetings over the weedend that ended in the dismissal of Premier Edward Babiuch and er top officials, including six and alternate members of 
National did not specify how to elaborate. much prices will rise. National did not offer an 
Earlier yesterday, Chicago­explanation for its price ad­based Inland Steel Co. an­justments. nounced price increases aver­Bethlehem Steel Corp. initi­aging 4 percent for structural ated the latest round of pricing and plate products consumed structural shapes and certain largely in the construction in­pilings and plates. dustry. The change is effective Bethlehem also said it would Oct. 5. cancel, as originally planned, a 
No. 6 Inland also said it will 4 1/z price reduction on sheets allow formal price discounts for and special quality carbon and sheet and bar products expire alloy bars. The rollback, after Sept. 30. The discounts announced July 3 to match were offfered earlier this sum­similar cuts by competitors, will mer to accomodate the auto be allowed to expire Sept. 30. industry. The nation's second-largest 
Inland said the/rice changes steelmaker, based in Bethle­were necessitate by "unceas­hem Pa., attributed the in­ing cost pressures,'' althou~h a creases to "relentless cost company spokesman dechned pressures." 

When you need big favors you ask good friends. 
When you ask good friends for a favor, you know what they're going to say. So you tell them you're moving again and then wait for the groans to stop. They may not like the idea, but you know they're going to be there. When you're finished, these people are going to deserve something special. Tonight, let it be Li)wenbrau. 

IORB IIAS!IIB S!YLIS!S I 
I I 
I I 
l'fotal Hair Oare for Men eta Womenl 
I I  $1.oo ol'r  I!  
I  I  
II 11 Ronh  Scotsdale Mall  I 1  

I 271-8660 191-8911 I 




~----------------~ 
The Observer 

In addition to remoeling their room, these students appear to be remodeling their roommate, as well. (photo by Greg Maurer) 

Tuesday, August 26, 1980 -page 8 
Mine safety conference brings unions and companies together 
BLACKSBURG, Va. (AP)­
Officials of the United Mine 
workers of America and coal 
companies gathered here today 
for a mine safety conference ex­
pected to show the new coop­
eration between these old rivals. 
Sam Church, UMW President 
and a former southwest Virginia 
coal miner, was scheduled to de­
liver the keynote address at to­
day's opening session of the 11th 
annual institute on Coal Mining 
Health, Safety and Research at 
Virginia Tech. 
Other scheduled speakers were Herbert Buchwald;a Canadian health and safety of­ficial; John Schroder Jr.; a coal ~roup vice president of U.S. Steel; and undersecretary of 
Labor John Gentry. 
Between those highly-publi­cized speakers are scheduled presentations by scores of mine company officials, • government and academic researchers and union leaders on mining safety. 
Topics on the agenda include sessions of ventilation of mine dust and methane gas, risk re­duction, mine equipment, noise abatement and prevention of mine roof cave-ins. 
Although technical lectures on mine safety are the official focus of the three meetings; it also serves as a public forum for industry leaders. 
Church's 270,000-member union in the pasthas had a hostile attitude toward coal companies, 

with whom they frequently share 
the spotlight at the conference. 
At a UMW t.xecutive Board 

meeting this month in the 
Virginia coal town of Lebanon, 
Church said he might seek ex­
tension of the UMW contract 
with coal companies next year if 
a settlement is near. 
Last year at the conference 

here, former UMW President 
Arnold Miller also said he was 
confident the • : 981 contract 
could be reached without the 
hostility and violence ofthe 111­"day UMW strike of 1977. 
At that same conference, a 

major coal company official pre­
dicted the future of the coal in­
dustry would be one of heigh­
tened cooperation free of past 
labor strife. With the increasing emphasis 

The Observer Tuesday, August 26, 1980 -page 9 
.. . Bars 

(continuedfrom page 1) 
have lodged complaints about the noise and litter eminating from the bar. 
Corby's Tavern Industries (CTI), Inc., the owner of Corby's has maintained in its own defense that minors have entered the bar using falsified indentification and therefore Corby's is not in violation of the law. 
"Our position is predicated upon the fact that we have never violated any laws of the City of South Bend, St. Joseph's County, of the State of Indiana,'' said CTI representative Harold Row­ley. 
"We're operating on the premise that we will be open for the entire school year," said Corby's manager Jim Meyers. "We'll be here." 


New construction pictorial 
Pictured above is the latest addition to WND U-TV's array o/news gat~ ering equtpment, the Skycam. In the background, the partially-completed women's dormitory can beglimpsed. At leftis the south entrance to the recently­completed Snite Museum o/Art. (both photos by john Macor) 




NDSU 
Refrigerator Rentals. 

PLACE: Stepan Mall 
[in the Stephan Center} 
TIMES: Thursday and Friday, Aug 28 &29, 9-5. 

~=our NEWmodel: "TRAVEL-FRIDGE" 
~ LARGE(4.6cu): •sooo 
SMALL (3.2 cu): '35oo plus Deposit ,
rental fee includes both semesters 1; 

With neighboring Goose's Nest bar already shut down, Corby's Bar. 1015 Corby Blvd., isfighting/or its life in Indiana Court. Story begins ot. page 1 and is continued at left. (photo by john Macor) 
-NOTRE DAME MAKES THE TOP 20 
IN QlORf MAGAZINE'S PRE-SEASON FOOTBALL PREVIEW. 
Who's Reaching for the Top? 
What Teams are the Rising Stars? 
Where Will You Find the Surprises? 
How the Season Shapes Up In College Football. 

It's Allin the Colorful, Exciting September 

ON-SALE NOW! 

EATING 19RINKING & aTtfER J11JEA5iANTJ\IES 

LUNCH Mon.· Sat. 11:00 ·4:30 
DINNER Mon. ·Thurs. 5:00 . 10:00 
Fri. · Sat. 4:30 . ll :00 
Sun. ll:OO ·10 :00 



PHONE 217-6368 

ACROSS FROM UNIVERSITY PARK MALL ON GRAPE ROAD 

Tuesday, August 26, 1980 -page 10
The Observer 


R.IVE 
RECORDS 

Northern Indiana's Largest Selection of Albums & Tapes 
50970 U.S. 31 North 3 Miles North of Campus Next to Al's Supermarket 

Open until10:00 p.m. 7 nights a week. 
ND/SMC checks cashed up to $20.00 ~pver purchase mount 
Record Crates Available 
Giant Record Posters Available 
All Cut-Outs $1.00 Offl 
All Blank Tapes $1.00 .o,r.... 
NO LIMIT! (unt~l S!J)f~mb~,r

(we carry TDK, ····· · 
N 


Yes 

George Ber1son 
EMs Pr.cutt<l!w. ······••• · 
Paul samll"ln Pete 

· Santana ¥ The Rolling '""1"a! CharlielJt'llntAit: ·~······. 
!f· Jeff Beck Blue Oyster Cuff 
:-. ;@j~ ,:_.:,::.::::;::-:·· ... 

Concert Tickets: The Cars:i!!S~pf i(:'No new issue: The River City Review :tr 
·---------------------------­

Sl.OO OF.FI Gnytegulat album ot tape putchase with this coupon. 
limit one pet customet expires Septen•ber15, 1980· 


RIVER CITY RECORDS' 

Steady overtures 

Red China lusts after Tai-wan 
PbKING (AP)-While Americans reopen the debate over the "two Chinas," the Peking government is quietly pursuing its goal of reunifica­tion with Taiv.an through a steady stream of official over­tures and appeals to the Nationalist-governed island. 
Communist China's hopes for peaceful reunification are one reason Peking's leaders have reacted sharply to Repub­lican presidential candidate Ronald Reagan's statements a­bout maintaining official rela­tions with both China and Taiwan. 
In the past year, China has proposed resumption of direct mail, shipping and telecomunications between the mainland and the prosperous island, 100 miles off its coast, where Chiang Kai-Shek set up a nationalist government in 1949 after the communists won the Chinese civil war. 
China says that if Taiwan and its 17 million people rejoin the homeland under one flag, it will be able to retain its social and economic systems, its relations with other ·countries and even its armed forces. 
The Taiwan government-under Chiang's eldest son, Chiang Ching-Kuo-has been either denouncing these overtures as "tricks" or ignoring them. 
Recently the mainland Air Force commander proposed to Taiwan that their two govern­ments combine their airpower to fight "foreign aggression" ­
a reference taken to mean the Soviet Union. 
Last spring, China officially dropped import duties on Taiwan-made goods entering China, saying duties are not 
. necessary since Taiwan is a "province" of China. The two conduct trade through third countries. Unofficial reports say about $25.7 million in Taiwan-inade 

goods were imported by China ese scientists exchanged through Hong Kong and other greetings and views, according ports during the first three to press reports. months of 1980. China report-The .communists govern edly exported $19 million ment frequently invites worth ofgoods to Taiwan in the Taiwanese to visit the main­period, much ofit medicine and land. Last spring, it asked 
herbs. Taiwan's baseball, softball and 
Aside from pushing econo-track teams to visit but Taipei mic detente, China also seeks turned down the invitations. contact with the Taiwanese in Unofficial visits do take other countries when they ) place, however, involving come t9gether at scientific individuals on both sides who seminars, sports or other want to see their families. The events. extent of such travel is not 
. And in keeping with its drive known. 
for reunification, China widely Although China has not ruled 
publicizes such contacts in the out the use of force i:o achieve 
mainland press. Last May in its goal of reunification, the 
Costa Rica and more recently in tone of the overtures is pacific 
France, mainland and Taiwan-and at times entreating. 
...Reagan , Bush 
(continued from page 1) 
emphasized that he has never advocated renewing diplomatic relations with Taiwan. 
He also said that the U.S. relationship with the Peking government should "develop and strengthen in the years ahead." 
In what appeared to be a conciliatory gesture toward the Chinese government, which gave Bush a cool reception, Reagan pledged to work with all Asian countries "to stand firm against aggression or a search for hegemony which threatens the peace of stability of the a.rea." 
"Search for hegemony" is a phrase used by the Peking government to refer to the threat of Soviet aggression in the area. 
Reagan said he stands by the Taiwan Relations Act, which he described as "an act passed by Congress that creates an agency or an institute, manned with government personnel, funded with government money." 
Reagan's chief foreign policy adviser, Richard Allen, also conceded that Reagan was clarifying -if not backing down from-statements last eek and during the primary campaign about relations with Taiwan. 
At the joint news conference with Bush, Reagan read a nine­page statement aimed at reconciling the apparent contradictions between their comments during the past week. 
Bush also said they were in 

agreement, drawing a distinc­
tion in various past statements 
between "governmental 
relations" and "government-to 
government" relations. 





we.ccoJJte mesHJJtew 



S&ulact clceek6 wked 
Auten 

wilk SKtC-Kf) 9.V. 


1 mile North
A,

i -~~ .I 


Georgetown Shopping Center 
52303 Emmons Rd. 
277·5811 
liD 
1 mile South 


426 N. Michigan 234-3185 






l I 
.. 
~ 
l 
I 
j 

~ OOMEIR ARD
,--­


APPLYTO WIR A 1980BUIOK REGAL
l}ll t!.gg 


DRAWIRGTOB$-;J c~~s "'=;."!'_IJLD AUG. 30!!

o"t 0~o 
-A\\'2-o~ c 


'2J ~~tA 

'lJ "Pick Up Your Spirits" and enjoy lower prices 
RED, WHITE, &BLUE GALLO MILLER 24/12 OZ CANS ·-Burgundy 
24/120ZCANS
WARM OR COLD Hearty ~urgundy 

WARM OR COLD
Chablis Blanc 
Rhine Vin Rose MEDICI PinkChablis 





$499 $699 
KESSLER­
3 liters

lambrusco 

150m/ . 
750ml $499 



$499
$229 

BACARDI SILVER LEROUX 
J&B 

750ml SCHNAPPS 
1LITER 

1.751iters
$499





$999 $899 

1621 South Bend Ave.  254 Dixie Hwy. North  1725 N. Ironwood  
233-4603  272-2522·  .  272-7144  
VISAw MASTERCHAAGE ACCEPTED  




Tuesday, August 26, 1980 -page 12
Editorials 

Co-edd~rms 

I 
Notre Dame went coeducationalin 1972. But, as the 

I 
. last eign t years have shown, co-educauon has, atbest, beenin name only. 

' 
The male/female relationship at Notre Dame is best described as·strained; many would label the situation as downright unhealthy. The attitudes of men and women here 
I 
are generally those ofmisunderstanding, and even contempt

I 
bred by that misunderstanding. 

University policies have done nothing to alleviate this problem. Most rules and normsset up by the adminisratation have aggravated the problems, which were well-documented in last year's Observer:· There~ are many pos sibili that come to mind in terms of change, but the most prominent is a change that is long overdue. 
There are two new dorms under construction at present. There is no reason why one of those new dorms could not be built as an experimental coed dorm..Co·habitation i$ not a revolutionary idea; even on a collegiate level it is not a novel invention. In fact, it is a situation thatis takenfor granted ata great number of colleges. 
At Notre Dame however,. the idea ofcoed dorms has ·been anathema. But it appears that the reasons behind the administration's 'opposition to this idea are archaic. The rhetoric delivered to the studentbody by the administration, particularly by Fr. Hesburgh, lacks substance. The reasons given time after time presuppose an attitude of hedonismm ;tmong the students in such a living situation. We, asmature 
1dults, are given no credit for that maturity. We are treatedas undisciplined and immoral juvenile~when the admini:ma­don claims to view us as adults. '#; .i 
The question here is one of trust. The signs of University mistrust towards the student body are everywhere ...., patietals, keg restrictions, inconvenient party room .rules­
the list is extensive. To remedy this, theadministration must begin with a gesture as is being described here. Perhapsif students were to perceive new·found .trust from the administration, they would respond responsibly. In any case 
' the beginning ofa new semestetis ideal for such a gesture. 
One ofthe new dorms could easily be set up asacoedliving space. Admission to the dotm should be completely voluntary, and should be open only to Juniors and Seniors. The ratio ofmen to women in the dorm should be as close to 50/50 as possible, and, ofcourse, padetals would notexist in the dorm. If this experiment proved successful, further implementation could follow. 
The creation of a coed dorm w;Jl not be an overnight decision and implementation, but some action should be taken now. A panel comprised ofstudentsandadministrators should be formed as soonas possible to explore the feasibility of an experimental co·habitational facility here at Notre Dame. It is more than likely, however, that the administration will refuse to even acknowledge this letter~ or the possibility that coed dorms might improve the uh· comfortable social situation here. Ofcourse it remains to be seen whether or not the administrators ofthis university even care to maturel discuss the ossibilities. 

~ 
Russian fights unemployment Aleksis Rubulis 
One unique OJ?portunity available at Notre Dame, is the abthty to study Russian. At present, students who are graduated from college with even limited knowledge of Russian are becoming successful in a very competitive job market. One place where my students who have studied the language in my class have found job opportunities, is with the National Security Agency. 
Up to now, Notre Dame students who have studied Russian in my classes have been accepted by the National Security Agency either for a Eermanent position or for a summer job, even if their average grade in Russian did not exceed the average. A recent student of mine writes that "money is good and working conditions are extremely pleasant. Tell your students,'' he continues ''that the NSA needs all majors of Arts and Letters with some knowledge ofRussian. Needed in J?articular are those who have majored in econom1cs, the sciences, and all types of engineering since much of the work deals with the latest technological advancem­ents." All of them must know the basics of Russian grammar and have the ability to use a Russian·English dictionary. 
NSA has many excellent undergraduate and graduate programs to assist its employees. To 


Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief . ..................... Paul Mullaney Managing Editu~ . ....................... Mark Rust 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 

Editorials Editor . ................. Michael Onufrak
University of Notre Dam-: du Lac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. It does not necessarily 

Senior Copy Editor .................... Lynne Daley 
reflect the policies of the administratio:I of either instituuon. The news is reponed 

News Editor ......................... Pam Degnan as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a News Editor .. ...................... Tom Jackman majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views News Editor ....................... .John McGrath of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and SMC Executive Editor .... ............ Margie Brassil 
SMC News Editor .................... Mary Leavitt 
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 


my. knowledge, NSA pays 80 per cent of the 
tumon ofa Ph. D. candldate in Russian. Persons 
with. a bache; lor's de;gree bewgin at a GS· 7 civil 
serv1ce ra!lkmg, whde summer interns begin at 
GS-6. Ratses, I am told, are commonplace. · 
I have had two former students who have 
worked in Moscow at the U.S. Embassy, and 
several of my undergraduates earned their 
summer. stipends working as interpreters for 
Intern~uonal Harvester in Moscow, Leningrad 
and K1ev. In each of these cases transportation 
to the U.S.S.R. was paid for. 

In the busin~ss world tod~y, it is reported that over 459 Amt;ncan compames deal drrectly with the Sov1et Umon and, consequently, are in great need of representatives knowledgeable in basic Rus~ian. Various ~esearch institutes even prefer to htre those candtdates who can translate basic Russian with the help of a dictionary. 
The individuals who are interested in NSA can apply ~ither through thePlacementOffice or wnte dJiectly to: College Relations Branch· National Security Agency; Fort George G: 
"I tell you what I'm going to do for you, but only
Meade, Maryland 20755, Attn: M321. Please 
because Hirohito's birthday is coming up ... " 
write soon because the security clearance takes several months to complete. 
Guindon tP..ill apPear on the Observer·~ editorials paze until Prof Aleksis Rubulis is associate professor of nlf_]JJ tnstallmenfs of Doonesbury amve at the Observer modern and c!asst'callanguage"' o]Jtce. 

'Take my wife 
..


(or husband), please 
WASHINGTON-With all the bad news on the front pages lately, there was good news for husbands, wives and lawyers a few weeks ago. The Massachu· setts Supreme Court ruled that a wife could sue her husband for negligence if he did a lousy job shoveling snow and ice off the sidewalk in front oftheir house. 
The case, and I did not make it up, concerned a Shirley Brown of Wakefield, Mass., whose husband William got up at 7 a.m. on Dec. 21, 1978, and shoveled the sid lk before he went off to wo••~. At about 8 a.m., Mrs. Brown left the house and slipped on the shoveled walk, breaking two pelvic bones. 
Mrs. Brown charged that William was "careless and neg­ligent in the maintenance ofthe walks" and failed to leave them in a safe condition for his wife. She also maintained in the suit that it was part ofher husband's duties and responsibilities to keep walks clear and to spread sand and prevent them from getting slippery. 

For years courts have been reluctant to allow spouses to sue each other for negligence, so Brown vs. Brown opens up a whole can of beans for married couples, the legal profession and insurance companies. If there is a plethora of Brown vs. Brown cases, all homeowner policies will have to be rewritn and the rates could go sky· high. 
Ifa wife can sue a husband for neglecting his household chores, there is no reason a 
husband can't go to court when a wife neglects hers. 
Le.t me give you some exam· pies based on personal exper· ience: 
Under t.nglich common law, one of a wife's duties is to put out the trash. Recently I was l)laying with the dog and trip· 
. ped over a Hefty bag my wife had carelessly thrown in the driveway. I scraped my elbow badly. Had the-Brown vs. Brown case come down earlier I would have immediately called my lawyer, t.dward Bennett Williams, and started the legal ball rolling. But, being ignorant of my rights, all I did was warn her that if she couldn't do a better job with the trash I would no longer permit her to watch television after she did the dishes; 
I have always maintained that it is a wife's duty to repair anything in the house that goes wrong. I hate to spend money on electricians and plumbers when it isn't necessary. A month ago I asked her to change the motor on our gar­bage disposal unit, a simple job that any housewife should be able to do. When I came back from playing tennis all the parts of the motor were on the floor and she was crying. 
I had to pay $250 to get a man in to do it right. This was an 
Guindon 

;'T .).\ 

Sports Editor........................ Beth Huffman Featum Editor . ....................... Kate Farrell Features Editor............ . ...... Molly Woulfe Photo Editor.·:.·.· ................ ,·:., Johfl Macer 
Businm Manager . .................... Greg Hedges Controller .............................. .Jim Rudd Advertising Manager . ............... Mike Holsinger Circulation Manager ............ : ........ Tim Zanni Productil'm Manager . ................ Ann Monagha 
' 

Art Buchwald 
open-and·shut case of negli· 
gence in maintaining house· hold equipment, and I can't believe that any all· male jury in 

the land would not have ruled in 
my favor had I known I could 
have taken the case to court. 

I believe one more example is 
sufficient to make my point. 

Three weeks ago my wife was on 
a ladder painting the ceiling 
when I walked by on my way to 
the kitchen to get a Lite beer. I 
happened to accidentally brush 
the ladder and the can of paint 
came tumbling down and fell on 
my toes, causing me anguish 
and pain. Having failed to put 
up a sign warning passersby that 
she was painting the ceiling 
made her guilty of violating 
every safety regulation in the 
book, and ifi had known about 
the Massachusetts Supreme 

Court ruling I would have 
slapped her with a supoena on 
the spot. 

There are people who say Brown vs. Brown could endan­ger the sanctity of marrage. But I believe it could bring people closer together. Many divorces come about when one party thinks that he or she has been injured by the other. Now that one spouse can go to court and sue the other, there is no reason to break up. If, as the song says, "You Always Hurt the One You Love," it's Mutual of Omaha's problem, not ours. 
Art Buchwald appears regularly on The Observer's editorials page. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
~-------­



Features 
Tuesday, August 26, 1980 -page 13 
The Art of Verbal Self-Defense; Saying a Mouthful 
Why Didn't I Say That? 
Donald Carroll Franklin Watts, 1980 $7.95 
You do that just to upset me! 
It's working? 
What makes you think so, jlyface? 
When Donald Carroll talks, people don't just listen. They shut up and sliqk away to a dark corner. 
Carroll, a former terror of British radio and TV (famous for rapier-like repartee with the likes offormer Prime Minister Harold Wilson) is now un­sheathing his trade secrets ofreturning snappy answers to conversational bullies and bores. His new book, Why Drdn't I Say That?, outlines his tech­niques, as well as providing readers with 118 pages of examples of come­backs to dumb questions, insults, and 
na~s. 
(His last book, Dear Sir, Drop Dead/, was a collection of the world's most absurd hate mail). 

According to Carroll, we are often at the mercy of accusers and insulters because we hear what theymean instead of what they say. r.xploit the gap between what is said and what is meant • and you can send that clod at the next party -the one who keeps spilling beer on you as he insists you've met 

before -cowering behind the keg. For example: Can't we stay friends? 
Sure, provtded we make ftiends fint. I think I'd be happier if we stayed contemporaries. 
Got the idea? Other examples: Don't you think you've had enough to drink? ­
MollyWoulfe 
Enough for wh.'tt? No, I can str/1 hear yo11. How kind. Just tt little om·, pie.. 1e. 
How come I've never heard of you? 
Because I asked your wtfe to be discreet about it. 
Are you doing anything Friday 
Nothing tllegal. Sure. But not all night. 
Didn't your mother ever teach you any manners? 
'rm an orphan. Yes. All bad, unfortunate~y. 
I have a headache. 
It's not your head I U'ant tonight. It's probably only a pulled mmclt•. 
The only major disappointment with this book is that it does not contain responses to the age-old queries "What's your major?" and "Where you from?" But then you could always say "My major what?" or, .. 
Chinese Horoscopes Reveal Fate 

Once upon a time, the ancient Chinese believed, the great Buddha summoned all the animals ofthe world to appear before him, promising them rich , rewards if they would obey him. But when the time came, only twelve animals answered his call, so Buddha honored them by devoting a year to each of them. Since that time, every man and woman has taken on the characteristics of the animal which dominates the year of his birth. 
From this legend springs the Chi­nese horoscope. Unlike its Western counterpart, it is based on a 12-year rather than 12-month cycle. r.ach year is symbolized by the sign ofan animal, and every individual born under the sign assumes the characteristics and fortunes of his animal. Since the Chi­nese conception of good and bad animals differs considerably from that of the West, some of the character traits of many of the signs are very surprising. For instance, who would have thought of a rat as a seductive intellectual, or of a snake as a well­bred, subtly humourous philosopher? 
So if you're disenchanted with your Western zodiac sign, or just looking for a better way, read on and discover your Chinese horoscope. · 
The Rat Rats are quick-witted, high­strung intellectuals hopelessly addic­ted to puzzles and games of chance. They possess terrific business acumen, and are always looking for sales and bargains. Their opportunism and a?­gressive drive frequently get them m trouble. Best match for a Rat is with a dragon, bull or monkey; they should avoid cats and horses. Years ofthe Rat: 1949, 1961, 1973. 
The Bull In contrast to the Rat, the Bull is a phlegmatic sign: hard-work­ing, persevering and methodical. Their authoritarian and conservative in­stincts give Bulls a dictatorial bent: Hitler and Napoleon were both Bulls. A violent, hot-tempered streak is bal­anced by a loving, long-suffering heart. Best partners: rooster, rat and snake; Bulls should stay away from goats and tigers. Years ofthe B11ll: 1950, 1962, 1974. 
The Tiger A rebel (frequently wit­hout a cause), a charismatic leader who demands respect and subservience from those aro.und him, the Tiger tends to be hot-headed and lacking in self controL fallingin love with a Tiger can be hazardous, but very exciting, since they are lusty and passionate lovers, especially when their partners are horses, dragons and dogs; snakes, bulls and cats turn them oft: YearJ rfthe Tiger: 1951, 1963, 1975. 
The Cat Cats are the most com­panionable of the signs. Traditional, well-bred and peace-loving, they un­fortunately tend to be snobbish, de­ceitful and somewhat provincial. They excell in business, and their cautious, sympathetic nature makes them ex­cellent bosses. Cats get along best with goats, dogs and pigs; they should steer clear ofrats, roosters and tigers. Yearsof the C'at: 1952, 19M, l976. 
The Dragon Dragons are the ath­letes of the zodiac: strong, healthy a~1d able to do anything they set their minds to and do it well. They enjoy display and love to put on a show. Idealists and perfectionists, they often suffer from a superiority complex. Monkeys, snakes, rats and roosters are a Dragon's best partners, but they should be careful, since dragons are often flirtatious and fickle. Years rfthe Dragon: 1953, 1965, 1977 
The Snake Noted for his sleek good looks, the Snake is one of the most endearing of the signs because of his romantic and gentle nature. Possessors of a suble sense ofhumour, the Snake is'a profound thinker who is extremely self-critical. He is a bad and vicious loser. B~ partners are roosters and bulls; they should avoid tigers and dogs. Years rfthe Snake: 1954, 1966, 1978. 

The Horse The Horse is the quin­tessential extrovert: strong-willed and charismatic in front of crowds, his confidence vanishes when he is alone. Impatient and egocentric, horses have no time for problems that do not directly concern them. Goats, dogs, tigers and roosters are the best mates for the sexy, sensual Horse; an affair with a monkey will only end in heart­break. Years ofthe Horse: 1955, 1967,1979. 

The Goat The best playboys, cour­tesans and gigolos are Goats; they are the most pleasure-loving of the signs. They are great believers in religion and the occult. Followers, not leaders, they are best suited for a life ofluxury paid for by someone else, preferably a horse, pig, cat or monkey, but by no means a bull or dog. Years ofthe Goat: 1956, 1968, 1980. 
The Monkey The Monkey is the problem solver of the zodiac; he tackles any situation calmly and sen­sibly. He often achieves wealth by unconventional means. Superficially, the Monkey gets along well with others, but he has a low opinion of those around him, coupled with an egotistical and selfish nature. Despite his egocentrism, the Monkey is always liked for his wit and intelligence. Monkeys fall in love easily, particularly with dragons and rats, they shy away from horses and pigs. Years of the 
Monkey: 1957, 1969, 1981. 
The Rooster bye-catching and en­tertaining, generous and creative, Roosters are at their best under pres­sure. They enjoy travel and dislike routine. They,are prone to boast and exaggerate, and love to give advice and preach. Roosters need unlimited praise, particularly from bulls, snakes, horses and dragons; cats and other roosters only give them harsh words. 
Years ofthe Rooster: 1958, 1970, 1982. 
The Dog The Dog is discreet and heplful, generous, dependable, loyal and dignified. He is also a worrier and pessimist who can be obstinant, cy­nical and introverted. He docs not like to risk unknown adventures by him­self. Best partners are horses, tigers 
,and cats; the dog will notget along with 
dragons and goats. Years rf the /)og: 
1959, 1971, 1983. 
The Pig The Pig is a gallant and courteous friend willing to do ariythi ng to please those he loves, but othe~s frequently take ~dvantage of this wil­lingness and the Pig's trusting, sincere nature-there is much sadness in the life ofa Pig. To overcome this sadness, the Pig will overindulge in sensual pleasures. If they stick to cats and dragons, they will avoid a lot of hearbreak, but affairs with goats and snakes will drive them to wild excesses. 
Year ofthe Pig: 1960, 1972, 1984. 

r-:·~­
1 . ­
The Observer Tuesday, August 26,1980 -page 14 
By Tom jackman and Brian McFeeters Staff Reporters 
Though it is missing its top floor, and its insides have been

r 
reduced to a bare wooden frame

I 
and stripped ofits residents, St. 

I 
t.d's Hall will not be missing

I 
from the University's roster of I halls as a result of the June 25
' 
I 
fire it endured. 

I 
Instead, the spirit of the hall

I 
can only increase while the

I 
stnj,Cture is being rebuilt, ac­

I 
cording to Rector Fr. Mario Pedi. In the interim, however, St. .hd's will exist only in name, while its students set up tem­porary quarters in the study lounges of Grace and Flanner Halls and in one wing of Columba Hall (see adjacent story).


, Historic building's past traces 
Last night, Fr. Pedi held his first meeting with all St. t.d's students in the basement of Flanner Hall. He stressed the

back to previous tragedy 
necessity of maintaining unity, which he plans to do through structure remained unaltered­weekly masses in the Log
by .John L'haussee 
until the fire ofJune 25, 1980. Chapel, <.:ontinuance of the Hall was While its exterior remained hall's intramural teams, and useSaint t.dward's 
constant, St. t.dward's contin­of available party space for hall erected in 1882 as a part of a ued to expand to meet the gatherings.
large-scale rebuilding program demands of the Notre Dame Fr. Pedi theorizes thatinitiated after a tragic fire community. When servicemen workmen working on the hall's
destroyed much ofNot,eDame 
returmng from the World War fire escapes sent off sparks
in 1879. The blaze leveled II Hooded the ranks of the which went under the roof intoNotre Dame College (as it·was prenovitiate program, St. the highly flammable attic,named then) and spurred h:lward's annex was utilized by .. igniting the fire. Within 10Father t.dward Sorin, founder the University to house the minutes, the blaze was out ofof the University of Notre program for some years until controL Fr. Pedi, the hall's onlyDame, to vow to reconstruct these students were moved to summer resident, was in dass atthe campus. 
the Old College. Among the the time.
From this vow arose plans for treasured Notre Dame artifacts Fr. Pedi sensed severalSt. t.dward's Hall. Named for contained in St. t.dward's Hall different reactwns after meet­
Fr. Sarin's patron samt, the 
are the the famous Gregori ing ,with all of his students.
structure was completed in the 
fresco and the stained glass "Anger," he said, was one; "Ourspring of 1882. 
portratts. The fresco was com­guys re·ally worked hard on fire 
St. td's originally housed the pleted in the late 19th century regulations all the time, <.tnd Minim department of the by the famed Italian artist, Luigi then some workmen go and College. A type of boarding Gregori, who also painted the cause this." school for young lads, the interior of Sacred Heart He also sensed "frustration, minims were the pet project of Cathedral. Gregori eventually but acceptance too. And I've Fr. Sarin. Declining enrollment settled permanently at Notre heard no adverse criticism of during the 1920's. eventually Dame. the University at all," he added, necessitated termination ofthis The stained glass works referring to the last-minute program and the subsequent indude ·a portrait of Father effort the Housing Department conversion of St. t.dward's into Sorin receiving gifts from local put forth in order to find on­a student-dormitory in 1929. native Americans he had bap­campus housing for everyone. · 
After the demolition of the tized, and numerous spiritual All St. t.d's students who wis,hed old east wing in 1937, to make depictions located in the to remain on campus were room for Zahm Hall, St. t.d's chapel. accomodated. 
"The University learned a 
...................................... ................................. 



Playback ~ !~~~IN.CASS.TAPE-1 
_,_..' 
I JUSTSHOWUS I 
821 W. McKinley across from Town and Country 
FREE!YOUR 1.0.1 
phone 256-1514 Shopping Center 
I
Offer good thru august 31 
I 

lesson too," Fr. Pedi noted, about su<.:h thirtgs as the silver poles around campus which prevent pedestrians from walking on the grass. These also prevented fire equipment from moving quickly to the scene. He cited the common double parking on campus as another impediment to the ten pieces of equipment which eventually arrived behind St. .hd's. 
"Maybe they'll take a new look at fire prevention now," Pedi said. 
Four firemen were injured in the blaze. 
"I wasn't aware of how devastating it (fire) could be," Fr. Pedi commented. "Twenty workmen couldn't control it, and it was out of control in 10 minutes, in broad daylight. What would have happened ifit had occurred at 3:00 in the morning, w~th students in the hall? We would've lost some lives." 
Reconstruction is next, but although workers will finish cleanup tomorrow, Security Director Glenn Terry says re­novation will not begin until after the insurance settlement is complete and a plan for rebuilding the upper floor is completed. Donald Dedrick, director of the Physical Plant, said that could be as early as October 1. 
At one point, it was rumored that the University wished to house students in the salvageable portions ofthe hall, since only the now destroyed fourth floor was completely beyond repair. Reportedly, the insurance compa'ny employed by Notre Dame vetoed that plan. No formal loss figure has been announced pending resolution of coverage conflicts. 
Terry commented that the University has not yet chosen between two alternate plans for the hall: either an exact reconstruction, or a modern­ized three-story version. For this, the annex at the rear ofthe dorm would first be torn down. He added that a newer version would have the advantage of increased fire safety, but that a final decision will depend mainly on the specifications made in the upcoming insur­ance settlement. 
Fr. Pedi would like to see an exact reconstruction of the hall, adding that University architects are also enthusiastic about this. He feels that with the hall in its present state, stripped of brick and plaster, modernized fire safety devices can be installed. 
Optimistically, Fr. Pedi hopes that students can move back in before the end of the second semester this year, so that seniors can graduate from St. t.d's as well as from the University. Tomorrow, when he wnducts a tour of the hall with its 98 former residents, perhaps they can determine whether that timetable is at all feasible. 

\ 
WELCOME STUDENTS 
ON CAMPUS TRAVEL SERVICES ... 

FirstBankTravel 
* 
Computerized Reservation System 

* 
Instant Airline and Amtrak Tickets 

* 
Individual and Group Tours 

* 
Auto Rentals 


BADIN HALL· Hours ·8:30a.m.-4:45p.m. Call · 236-2674 or Ext 7080 

FirstBank 
YOU DESERVE FIRST...RATE TREATMENT.'~ 
____.........~....-~ 


\ 
\ 
'IC•t• h&IIAfl.! • •• !Hl•OI'•CI J!OIII~'...OO.,I'>St-'MIII ..;,~ol!lWtot[lllltloU, I !!I~' !!• ....... ~ .. H~&..(,,., •· o(lt h"..' of.'&I.. H~4"1". !.•"&~' '"~·,. .w~'o:li(JUJIIII 
• t ....a~· -II,.,~, • ~~~(JHLr-• WA~~AI'o 141Cil'I.•!(JioiH"• • "· ·~·,. llll~&"; 
o HI~''.!'> ~~~ft()l< .tl, '"fii!U"·' llli lJII:I'-· I' .... ·~I. 1'11: A,. I llu~ II,(~ t '' 01, • ,/ '• "o(. ~:11'«. V(..Hoi,A.. , •, 



The Observer 
' 
. ,· :· 
-"· :"
6
"
II' ·--'>i·/:_··~:'J,-,
':1{f";-: 
-... ~~n.~ ..• 
'•:·1., 


Rector reflects on ravaged residence 
By Fr. Mario Pedi Rector, St. Ed's Hall 
On the morning ofJune 25, I left St. hd's around 8 a.m., feel­ing secure and comfortable in this place called Notre Dame~ Comfortable because I had a home called St. hd's and a com­munity of men who share that home. 
Around 9 a.m. I left my drawing class to get some water and heard that St. hd's was burning. I still felt secure be­cause it was 9 a.m., workmen were in the building -surely the fire would be minor. 
I hurried toward St. r.d's, still 
not too concerned because I saw 
Sacred Heart Parish 
(we who worship in the crypt)



Needs: Musicians 
vocalists 

guitarists winds Sunday Mornings 
contact:· 
no one running north, no smoke. But when I rounded Cavanaugh and saw the flames and smoke destroying both my home and my community; when I saw couches and pictures and plants strewn on the front lawn; se­curity fled. I felt empty. 
I remember Fr. Bob Augsten telling me to go back into the building to see if there was anything he and others had mi­ssed when they carried out my things. But unless he had been there I would not have gone in because none of the possessions still in my room meant anything. I was suddenly detached from all that had before meant so much, because now I was no longer 

Tuesday, August 26, 1980 -page 15 
• 




Friends say: 'Let's stick together' 
by Mary Fran Callahan Senior Staff Reporter 
The spirit of St. bd's is still very much alive through it1> former residents despite the tragedy ofa charred dormitory. 
The dorm's residents, now housed in study lounges in Grace and Planner halls and rooms in a wing .of Columba Hall (the wing is now titled Vincent Hall), expressed mixed 
feelings  yesterday  over  tl:!-eir  
current  living  situation,s.  
Though  the  towers'  study  

lounges are spacious even when converted to triple and quads, and the rooms in Vincent are "nice," students said their major adjustment lies in not being able to see their hallmates as easily. 
Knocking on a door to visit a hallmate is now no longer possible; St. bd's students must either climb stairs, opt for elevators, or take a distant walk. In the case of the Vincent Hall residents, students must take 


Catechists 
youth leaders afew to assist in a-religiouseducation 

program 
8874 or Mrs. Bernard, 7512 
attached to what was most pre­
cious-St. J:o.d's. 
And while the cross was en­
gulfed in flames, and reporters 
were asking questions, while 
conversations around me ranged 
from the insensitive to the car­
ing, I remembered something 
Doug Kinsey said when we 
dedicated a memorial picture to 
Paul Keeler, a St. bd's man who 
died of cancer three years ago. 
"Our ministry, our role here 
on earth," he said, "is to comfort 
the afflicted and to afflict the 
comfortable.:' 
And I knew that whatever the 
cause of the fire, the result was 
far more important: that like the 
phoenix, both Hall and com­
munity must rise from the ashes. 
We may no longer be comfor­
table in the halls ofSt. bd's, but I 
know that there is a tighter bond 
among us because we have been 
afflicted. 
What I saw that day, and since 
then, proves that, as Fr. 
Hesburgh often says, there is a 
Notre Dame Family. Many on 
that day felt pain because part of 
Notre Dame was burning, and 
they expressed that sadness even 
though they had never been 
inside St. bd's. Many reached out 
to help then and in the time since 
then. In doing so they have 
comforted us afflicted. i Fr. Heppen worked long and 1hard to keep us together; the 
rectors of Grace and Planner, 
despite much inconvenience, into account the fact that "they are guests in a brothers residence," according to rector Fr. Mario Pedi. 

Pedi has cautioJ;Ied the:: Vincent Hall residents to "be considerate." The hall, consis­ting of primarily freshmen, has adopted a rather optimistic attitude in light of their situation. 
"It's like a family over here," a resident commented. "There's only 20 people to know." Other residents shared this opinion. 
Reactions from St. bd residents being housed in the towers differed slightly. One resident said he found it difficult to accept losing his "fringe friends." He explained that he knew several hallmates primarily as acquaintances but was looking forward to getting to know them better this year. With students s<;attered around the campus, only close friends will be easily accessible. All residents in their varied 
welcomed us into their halls; and the Brothers of Holy Cross o­pened part of their home to us. 
That's what family is all about, that's what Notre Dame is all about. 
Over at Vincent I have crow­ded into one room what was once in four, I have two-thirds of my community across campus, and I have to pull this aging, 170 pound body into a loft eight feet from the floor (and three feet from the ceiling, open on two sides, less than half the room, and free-standing). But it's all OK because the fire destroyed only brick and wood, which will be replaced, but could only rekindle the spirit of St. r.d's. We'll be back in our Hall in September; till then, "Roll Heads Roll." 
locations did say that Pedi has 
made a noble effort to keep 
friends together in the 
temporary housing situations. 
It is still unclear, however, 
just how temporary the housing 
will be. Rumors have circulated 
that say the St. bd's students can 
move back in their dorm come 
spring; others say renovati<Jn 
will not be completed and ready 
for students until next faiL 
Some students said the rea­
son for the uncertainty is tied to 
the insurance company which 
carried the dorm's policy. 
There is still some indecision as 
to whether or not the burnt 
fourth floor will be rebuilt or an 
annex will simply be added to 
compensate for the lost floor. 
Though the question does arise of how a hall-can retain its spirit when its residents are physically separated, students viewed the situation as optimistically as possible. ·Similar to Shakespearean heros toughened by tragedy, residents believe that their separation will ironically unify 
them. 
"We're still going to have 
interhall sports, and Fr. Pedi 
has really made it clear that 
there will still be a hall council 
and meetings," a resident said. 
Tower residents, now affect­
ed by additional boarders and a 
lack ofstudy lounges, appear to 
making the best of the situa­
tion. While residents have 
grumbled about "no study 
lounges," St. .1:-.d's residents 
have found their tower 
residents and Columba Hall 
brothers quite the hospitable 
hosts. 
"People have been coming in 
and introducing themselves. 
They're really making an effort 
for us. I know they realize that 
this situation is the best we can 
do," a student commented. 
All residents view themselves 
as proverbial refugees-
temporarily away from home. 
Though they are guests in 
foreign lands, they still are St. 
bd's residents, regardless of 
locations, in their minds. 
~Rocco's HairStyling rt/~Oj is happy to announce that 

,n.; DICK STILLSON 
''Indiana Barber and Styling Champion'' 
has joined the compliment staff of Ms. Linda L. Neville and Ms. Jackie Pletcherand N Ferraro 
531 N. Michigan St. , South Bend 









~«:)cJl~~======================T=ue=~=~='=A~u~==t=26~~=8u=·-=~a-=~=1=6 
8a.m.-4p.m.-art print sale, sponsored by su services commission, main floor of lafortune. 
7,9,llp.m.-film:"break­ing away," engineering au­ditorium, admission $.:. 
9p.m.-12a.m.-concert: appaloosa, in front of haggar hall. 

Governors urge endof embargo 
CHICAGO (AP)-Gov. Charles Thone of Nebraska recommended yesterday that the Midwestern Governors' Conference urge an end to the 
U.S. grain embargo·against the Soviet Union. 
The Republican governor's proposal was made on the second day of the 19th annual conference and will be considered by nine state chief executives today, the fin.,.l day of the session. 
"Agricultural embargoes are ineffective, depress prices, cost the taxpayers billions ofdollars and jeopardize future sales of agricultural commodities," Thone said. "The long-term consequence of sales suspensions is damaging to both agriculture and the nation. 
"The Midwestern Governors' Conference supports action to end the current embargo and urges action to prevent future interference with private agricultural products to customers located in foreign countries," Thome's proposed policy statement concluded. 
President Carter ordered the partial grain embargo earlier this year in response to the Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan. 
Illinois Gov. James R. Thompson opened yesterday's session with a call for revitalization ofthe nation's rail service. 
"We are confronted today, not with the problem ofhow to make our trains run on time, but with the challenge ofhow to keep them running at all," said Thompson, who la~er was "lected chairman of the conference for the coming year, succeeding Missouri Gov. 
Joseph Teasdale. 


lle~=·======================================= 

Molarity 
6.AJ> NCWS. RIGHT BE:FOR£ :WE LEFT RO~E., CHUCK :GOT ARREST£1:> FbR 
I 
DRUG ~UGGLING 

Peanuts® 
THIS 15 CUR LAST GAME 50 LET'S ALL TRY' A5 I-IAKD AS WE CAN ... 


8-21> © 1980 United Feature Syndicate. Inc. 




The Dilly Crossword 
ACROSS 32 Annoys 
© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd, Inc. All Rights Reserved 


8/26/80 
1 Like a bump 33 Looks at on-35 Dawson or 5 Bind Deighton 
10 Fixes 36 Martin and teeth, in Moore away 37 Privileges: 
14 Ore deposit abbr. 15 Balance 38 Sister 16 Encourage goddesses 17 Wine 40 -loss 20 US painter (perplexed) 21 Uppermost 41 Digits 
bran.ches 43 Having 22 Old horses bounds 23 Assess 44 Average 24 On land 46 Islet 27 Catch 47 Certify 28 Jules Verne 48 Picnic 
character pests 

Monday's Results 

Michael Molinelli 
lf116Ht ~HE'SPRo8~Yl !Ron7~ IN AvAIL.. CELL I .SOME'WHERE lA: .~ NAPL..E5 .~-_~ 
'Tt:lOSIID, • 
C'~N z I-4AVE HI~. PPiiLLLL~OW?, 
·;~!
t\

,~·4 rv~ 
ARE Lf'OU ACCUSING US OF NOT TRVING ?! 


50 Morsel 12 Fleshy 51 Sound fruit equipment 13 Footfall 54 Logical 18 Most fond 
refutations 19 Reach 58 Wines 24 Hindu 60 Well­principle 
ventilated of life 61 Mistake 25 Alliance 62 And others: acronym 
abbr. 26 Ethiopian 63 European city river 27 Ross 64 Remainder, 29 Cow name in Aries 30 Joins 65 Printing 31 Start mark 34 Struck 37 Restore DOWN confidence 1 Priestly 39 Left alone garments 42 Month 2 Falana 43 Neglect 
of song 45 Joan of 3 Smell Arc, lor 4 An earth one 
science 49 Maiden 5 Hangers-on name word 6 House sites, 50 Procreated 
in England 51 Rule 7 Musical -52 With-abbr. (hereupon) 8 Cigar 53 Ireland receptacles 55 Quote 9 Rank of 56 Cure noblemen 57 Wight or 10 Cause to Man list 59 Carriers: 11 Blind as-abbr. 



Pinocchio's Pizza Parlor 



Notre Dame 
Hours Luncheon 

11 :00-12:00 Mon-Thur 
Credit ·union 
11 :00-1 :30 Fri&Sat
Specials • 
1 :00-10:00 Sun 
weekdays Beer Specials 

''Checking''
Every Nite -8:00 to 9:00 hare-draft account $.25 Mug $1.25 Pitcher 

SPECIAL HOURS Saturday 9 • 4 regular hours 
Sunday 12-4 Mon.-Fri. 8:30-5 closed Labor Day
----------------··---, We Deliver 
lrhisCoupon Good For One Pizza I I I 
'CI 

most convenient location
~ 
Juniper
I p· I

I I $2.00 offAny Large IZZa I I Watch the G~mes t---N 1 1.00off Any Small Pizza 1 on our Wide Screen 
no service charge
I I
. ·M 

l..--------------------~1====~==================;;11 


The Observer -Sports Tuesday, August 26, 1980 -page 17 
... leers 

[continued from page 20] 
figures on a committee of local businessmen which was formed last May to better promote hockey throughout the South Bend area. 
"We have been surpised and quite pleased with the response from the campaign .• The biggest comment from the people we have ap­poached for tickets has been that they were unaware that hockey tickets were even available. Since footbaH and basketball are continous seH­outs, they automatically assume hockey is as weH. If anything, we have made people aware of Notre Dame hockey through this promot· ional campaign." 
The committee, headed by South Bend city engineer Pat McMahon, a former Irish player, has worked to literal­ly flood the metro areas of South Bend, Elkhart and LaPorte with billboards, newspaper ads and TV and radio advertisements pro­moting the entertainment value of Irish hockey. 
•'The top price for an adult ticket is $5," said Busick. "In terms of entertainment value, that's the best deal going in Michiana right now. We hope to work to make Notre Dame hockey more of an entertainment option for people in this area.'' 
As of last Friday, some 636 season tickets for both nights of a series had been sold. Added to that figure are 371 season tickets for just the first night (Friday) of a series and 238 for the second evening. The end result of all 
this so far has been a significant increase in revenue for the program, which is the insurance policy to keeping the sport ·alive here. And the very life of the program was surely in quest· ion last year. 
•'The decisions which were ultimately reached by the University concerning our program have been just great," said Lefty Smith Irish coach. ''Parity between the WCHA and the CCHA was reached about four years ago, so the move to enter the CCHA was hardly a step down for us. We think the brand of hockey will be every bit as gook as it was in the past. 
"Overall, the athletic de­partment wiJl be a much more sound program-we've even added some sports (lacrosse). It is certainly a very positive situation.'' 


at reduced prices-texts on 3-day notice paperback books bought and sold 
-40% 
titles in stock on other titles 
n. y. times 
indtulin~ S \' ~ U .\ Y 


VOCATION COUNSELING HOLY CROSS FATHERS 
How Do I Know if I Have a Vocation 

to the Priesthood? What Is the Academic and Formation 

Program for Becoming a Priest? [1 What Scholarships and Financial Aid Are 
Available for Seminary Training? What Are the Various Apostolic Ministries 
of the. Holy Cross Priests? How Do I Pray iJ I'm Thinking of a Vocation 
to the Priesthood and I'm Not Sure? 

For a Personal, Confidential 
Interview with No Obligation
Please Write or Call the 
Vocation Director: 
Rev. Andre Leveille, C.S.C. Box 541 

Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 For Appointment Call Between 
8:30AM -4:30PM (219) 283·~ 

The current season ticket campaign officially ends Sept. 15. Although sale of general admission tickets will commence then, Busick said that season tickets will remain available after that time. He notes especially that he would like to see an increase in student season tickets. 
"We've sold about 500 total season tickets (both 
nights,  frrst  and  second  
nights  included  in  this  
figure)  to  students.  We  

would like to see that rise to 
800. The student body has got to be a part of it all-it's their team. If we can't get 800 from the students, then something is wrong." 


THE INSIDE OUTLET 
our direct factory contact enables us to offer furniture at super prices 
furniture for the SMART Shopper 
Ir---------------------------~I
MONEY SAVING COUPON 
I I 
~ Bring this ad for a $5.00 DISCOUNT I 
I on any piece of furniture I 
L---------------------------J
2122South Bend Ave. 277-7772 Just 2minutes from Notre Dame campus 
Colorado College may have scored on this one, but the Tigers won't be able to score on the Irish any more after thi's season, in league play that i's. The Irish are paclting up and leaving the WCHA at the conclusion ofthis season, bound for the more geographically compact CCHA 
HOURS 
M·W·F 10·3 Tuesday 10 · 5 Thursday 10 • 8 Saturday 10 · 4 



i. 
. I 

Call Tim Sacheck, 
, .. 

287-4409 for details 
I, 

((hica!}o [ribnne
The Complete Newspaper 


r 
• 
The Observer -Sports Tuesday, August 26, 1980 -page 18 
...Injuries Sports Briefs.__---. 
' 
(continued from page 20] 
was knocked out ofcommission with a broken ankle. He is expected to miss at least the first two games (Puruu·~ and Michigan). 
"As a team, we have to get be'tter," Devine said after yesterday's practice, "but I'm sure we will. Our biggest problem -right now is the offensive line. There was a little inexperience there in the first 
.. .Devine 
(continued from page 20] 
In Leahy's official biography, Shake Down the Thunder, Wells Twomblv tells a story about a rather unbecoming incident that Leahy allegedly was involved in. The details are not important, but Twombly adds this aside: 
"The story progesses from year to year until almost every Notre Dame player believes that it must have happened during his senior year. Maybe it really did happen, although nobody, not even Leahy himself, can substantiate it. But it is a part ofa legend... itsounds good and that is what Notre Dame is made of." 
and that is what Notre Dame is made of 
It was not different with Parseghian. In his 11 season in South Behd he was the object of much adulation-and more than his share ofabuse. It may surprise some to know that more than few of his former players have, to this day, very little affection for Ara Parseghian. They supposedly hated him the way some players supposedly dislike Devine. They have credited Parseghian's assistants for his success the way some credit Devine's assistants for his. They claim Parse­ghian played little league schedules. They say he was a tyrant. 
And now they're saying the same things about Dan Devine. Or at least things that have the same implications. David Israel, for instance, indulged himself in a recent issue of Chicago Tribune. He took bits of rumor and pieces of place, and then the. loss of Huffman was a very big one. But on the bright side, both Bob Burger and Robb Gagnon are coming back faster than we had thought." 
A glance down the sidelines ofCartier reveals only a handful of players in sweats, a good sign in the Irish camp. The trainers are very happiwith the team's overall conditioning thus far, something that has kept the number of mJuries to a minimum. Huffman is the only 
hearsay and brewed up a pretty vicious story about Devine. But it's no secret that Israel does not like Devine. Their feud is well-known in media circles. Nevertheless, some insist the vignettes Israel relates are true. Then again, some say they are unfair lies. 
But that is not the issue here. What we're talking about is whether a man-any man­
should have to tolerate the kind of abuse that every Notre Dame football coach seems to receive. The stories are all different, but the endings are the same. The man took on the job.. . and the job won. 
.. . and that is what Notre Dame is made of? 
But if the pattern holds, if history repeats 
itself-again-they will someday praise Dan 
Devine the way they not praise Parseghian and 
Leahy and Rockne. And in two years, when 
Hunter, and Carter and Duerson and Zavagnin 
and Marshall and Kiel and Grooms and Naylor 
are juniors and seniors and national champs, 
they will probably credit Devine for recruiting 
those players like they so honored Parseghian 
after the national championship season of1977. 
Maybe they'll admit Dan Devine was a pretty good coach or even say how great it would be if he would return to Notre Dame. Maybe they'll even realize that he didn't want to leave in the first place. 
Like Parseghian and Brennan and Leahy... 
And this is what Notre Dame is made of. 
player thus far who is definitely out of the Purdue game. 
The only other injuries of note are fullback Pete Buchanan's broken wrist and linebacker Tony Belden's mild hand fracture. Buchanan, who has been practicing with a hard cast on for the past few weeks, is expected to have it removed in a few days and should be ready to play. Belden sustained his slight fracture late last week and was in sweats yesterday, but could play against Purdue. 

Football tickets stillavailable 
Four of Notre Dame's five 1980 home football games are 
completely sold out, according to Irish ticket manager Mike 
Busick. 

No tickets remain for the Purdue (Sept. 6), Michigan(Sept. 
20), Miami (Oct. 11) or Army (Oct. 18) games slated for 
Notre Dame Stadium. 

Some tickets do remain for the November 22 Air Force 
game -and they are available to the general public. 
P,..i_r Force tickets can be ordered through the mail by 
wntmg to the Notre Dame Ticket Office; Athletic and 
Convocation Center; University of Notre Dame; Notre 
Dame, IN 465 56. Tickets are $12 each, and there is a postage 
and handling charge of $1 per order. 
. An-checks should be made payable to the University of 
Notre Dame. 

Baseball team slates meeting 
There will be a very important meeting both for returnees from the spring 1980 Notre Dame baseball team and any new candidate interested in trying out for the squad. All classes freshmen through senior are invited to the Wednesa.. y meeting at 4:15 p.m. in the football auditorium in the ACC (enter gate 2). Please bring.a pen or a pencil. 
NDgeneral tryout meeting 
There will a general meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the Library Auditorium for those interested in trying out for women's basketball, fencing, field hockey, tennis, swimming (co-ed), and volleyball. The meeting will also include reports on intramural and interhall competition, sport interest groups (women's fast pitch softball and co-ed gymna-stics) and club sports (track and cross country, co-ed rowing, co-ed sailing, and co-ed skiing). Call 2163 for more information. 
ewsStand 
8l General Store 

• Water Beds • LEATHER GOODS 
·MAGAZINES 
·Newspapers 
·CLOTHING 
•Posters 
·.CANDLEs· 
. · Jewelry·Cards 
•INCENSE •Rugs 
•
Tapestry 

• 
Bedspreads 


• PIPES 
·PAPERS 
•Lites 
•NOVELTIES ·BOOKS 
• PARPHERNALIA 
113 West MonroeSt 
On block east 
of Bus Station 
ONE BLOCK WEST Of THE POST OFFICC 

Kodak ... America's Story­teller ... wants you to join its Centennial celebration by taking advantage of this special money-savings offer. Bring in your favorite Kodacolor film negatives, color slides or color prints, and we'll have Kodak make three, 8x10 color en­largements for the price of two. You'll get one free. But hurry, this offer ends October 8, 1980. 
WE OFFER 
COLOR PROCESSING 
., Kodak 

THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
\ 



~----~ ----------~-~ 
'• 

he Observer Sports Tuesday, August 26, 1980 -page 19 
, 


by Beth Huffman, Michael Ortman, 
Kelly Sullivan andBrian Beglane
SinceMa 
ND/SMC Tennis 
eredith 
New crowns, new coaches 
While the rest of the student professional specialist in the body had spread out around the phys ed department, hails from country late last May, along Detroit, Mich. She completedGre.g Meredith, captain ofthe 
their separate paths, Notre her education at hastern
979-80 Notre Dame hockey earn, was awarded a $2,000 Dame's men's tennis team Michigan University with a 
stuck together for one final master's degree after attending
cholarship for postgraduate 
curtain call following last undergraduate school at Wayne
tudy by the National Colle­
spring's sparkling 20-3 regular State. Petro is the former head
iate Athletic Association. 
season ledger. coach of the Irish basketball
Meredith, who graduated 
· The place was Rochester, which among
rom Notre Dame with a 3.8 squad, finished 
N.Y. and the event-the the top 16 teams in the nation in
rade point average as a busi­
hastern Collegiate Tennis Division III competition last
tess administration major, was 
Championships. year.
ne of 20 student-athletes na­
The Irish wasted little time
ionwide honored by the NCAA 
passing their 19 opponents in ,
nd the only hockey player. 
clinching the team title a day
eredith stands as the all-time 
before the finals were played. Saint Mary's sophomore Patsy 
rish scoring leader with 104 
Both the singles and doubles Coash earned a trip to Salsbury, 
Joints. 
competitions were broken into Md., this June when she com­
' The native Canadian was the 
two divisions with the number peted for the American Inter­
·ecipient of the Notre Dame 
one doubles and the numbers collegiate Athletics for Women 
3lue Line Club's td McGauley Former Irish hockey captain Greg Meredith, pictured here, 
one and two singles playing in (AlAW) tennis championship. 
viemorial Award as the squad's was one of20 young athletes awarded a $2,000 scholarship 
the "A" Division and the two Coash posted a perfect record 
nost outstanding senior. Mere­by the NCAA for post-graduate study. Currently under 
and three doubles and the last year as the Belles' number
lith, a former Rhodes scholar, contract lo the NHL 's Calgary Flames, Meredith hopes to go 
three, four, five and six singles one singles player. After
>lans to study law at the U­on to the University of Toronto Law School [Photo by john 
playing in the "B" Division. 
winning the AlA W regionals in 
tiversity of Toronto. 
Macor]. Of the possible four titles, 
May, the Kalamazoo, Michi­
Notre Dame took home three. 
gan, native fell short of a
In the "A" doubles, now­
championship, fmishing third
Men and Women graduated Carlton Harris 
nationally in the number one
teammed with captain-elect 
singles division. The defeat
Herb Hopwood to take the 
was the ftrst for Coash in
crown, while Mark Hoyer and 
college competition. 
NeUJ basketballassistants 

Mark McMahon joined forces to 
Coash teamed up with so­
win the "B" title. Also in the 
phomore Maureen Fitzgerald to 
Mary DiStanislao, who was Mary Murphy, a graduate Villanova and the University of "B" Division, Notre Dame's 
capture fifth place in the num­
selected last spring by Richard assistant who played under Hawaii, will join head coach third doubles team of Jim 
ber one doubles slot. The
·'Digger" Phelps to guide the DiStanislao for four years at Richard "Digger" Phelps's Falvey and Tim Noonan, 1980-81 women's basketball Northwestern University, basketball staff. Gillen, a native advanced to the semifinals Belles' duo had been unde­team as head coach in its initial completes DiStanislao's staff. of Brooklyn, N.Y., joins Tom before losing to eventual feated going into the tourna­
runner-up, Concordia. ment, and the Maryland match 
varsity season, has selected her Murphy, the Wildcat's oustand­
McLaughlin as assistant coach 

1ssistant coaches. ing senior woman athlete last Finally, in the "B" Division handed the partners the ftrst
for the Irish. A graduate of 

Pat Knapp, who has been the year, averaged 12.7 points per singles competition, junior doubles defeat of their careers.
Fairfield University with a

head coach for Bishop game her final year. Murphy's Tom Hartzell delighted his
degree in English, Gillen was

McDevitt High School in basketball talent earned her family and hometown fans by
the freshman basketball coach

Wyncote, Penn., for four Kodak All-America honors as winning the division 
at Brooklyn Prep High School GingerOakman, Saint Mary's 
seasons, will be DiStanislao's well as selection by the Dallas championship.
before moving on to a head Three Notre Dame players newest tennis coach, joins the
first assistant. Knapp, a grad­Diamonds of the women's 
Belles' camp afteran impressive
coaching position a Nazareth advanced to the semifinal
flate of Widener College in professional basketball league 
tennis career of her own.
Chester, Penn., has served as in the May, ·1980 draft. High School in 1970. Gillen round of that competition with 
Oakman, who replaces form· 
replaces Scott Thompson on Hartzell defeating teammate
IJirector of clinic services for 
er tennis coach Sandy Frey, is a
Phelps's staff. Earlier this year Hopwood, and Hoyer falling to
omen's Athletic Service, Inc., 
1971 graduate of Bowling
King of Prussia, Penn., as Thompson moved. to the Colgate's Greg Finn in the 
Green University in Ohio,
ell as a director at many Pete Gillen, the former University of Iowa to assume round of four. 
where she played varsity tennis 
knowed basketball camps. assistant coach for both the role of assistant coach. The ECTC title was the
E 
and attained a top ten national
fourth for Notre Dame since 
ranking while still in her junior
1966, the most times ever for a 
year.

single school. The trophy has 
After competing on the 
since been retired to South Junior-Whiteman Cup team Bend. Oakman directed her energies into the coaching profession. In Sandy Vanslager, a native of hockey player at Valparaiso While at Ursinus, Galen 197 5 she led a high school squad Bend, Ind., was named University, Wiese received her served as captain of the field in North Carolina to a perfect 
new women's volleyball M.S. in education at Indiana hockey, gymnastics and tennis Sharon Petro will coach the season. The team went on to at Notre Dame in mid­Unive~sity. She taught physical teams. Notre Dame women's tennis capture the girls' state tennis uly. The 1980 season marks education at Albion High Galen, who also will work as team again this fall, after a one crown. 
women's initial campaign of School in Michigan before join­an instructor in Notre Dame's year break as mentor for that Oakman coached for three · play. ing the Belles' athletic staff this phys-ed department, taught team. Petro will take over the years at North· Carolina Vanslager served as a volun­fall. swimming and diving as an position she held for two years, University, after initiating a replacing last year's coach,Jory women's tennis program there 
ore women 's coaching changes 
coach for the 1979 Irish associate instructor at Indiana 
Segal. Petro led the 1977 and in 1976. Oakman taught tennis
which operated as a club and has taught tennis, gymnas­
1978 Irish tennis teams to the at South Bend's Raquet Club 
. Volleyball, one of five tics and field hockey at several 
IAIA W small college champ­before she was hired at Saint
omen's sports at Notre Dame, summer camps.
) an Galen was appointed ionships. Petro, an· assistant Mary's.
number five to be 
head coach of the Irish women's 

....nr..•t1 varsity status by athle­
field hockey team by Notre

director Edward W. Krause, 
Dame Athletic Director Edward 

April. 
W. Krause in mid-July. 

Vanslager received her bach· 
Moher replaces Schafer 
of science degree in educa­Galen relpaces Astrid Hot· from Indiana State in 1974. vedt who will devote full time to completed her master's her administrative duties as 
Ric Schafer, Lefty Smith's monogram winner as a goalten­
in education at Indiana coordinator of women's athle­
assistant hockey coach at Notre der. Moher owns several Irish
ity . Ft. Wayne in 1978. tics and professional specialist 
Dame for the past five seasons, records including the most as­
28-year-old Vanslager in the University's physical 
resigned that position in early sists by a goalie (3( and the
will serve as an instructor education department. saves an overtime
July to take the head coaching most in
Notre Dame's physical edu­
The 22-year-old Galen, a position at the University of period (14). 
. department. 
native of Brunswick, Maine, Alaske-Fairbanks. Moher, who was working as
recently completed her masters Schafer's position was ftlled an instructor and councelor at
degree at Indiana University. 

later that month by 24-year-old Notre Dame's hockey camp this 
Wiese will assume the She was graduated cum laude 
Len Moher, a 1978 Notre Dame summer, moved into the posi·
ing duties for chis year's from Ursinus College in 1979 
with a bachelor's degree graduate and four-year Irish tion immediately. 
Mary's field hockey squad/ in 

Ric Schafer 
former intercollegiate field physical educatio·n. 
---------------~----~-----~­
-~ ------­

• 
Tuesday, August 26, 1980 -page 20
Sports 

Quarterback chosen, Irish plan CCHAmove
but mum's the word 

by Michael Ortman has spent the last week in a sling for 1981-82 Associate Sports Editor with a sprained right shoulder. When asked if the The question has been quarterbacks themselves knew 
by Bn'an Beglane 
answered! what role they would fill, 
Sports W n'ter 
Dan Devine said yesterday Devine responded, "That's not that the Irish coaching staffhad really relevant right now. " 

Breakway-that' s the
re<>ched a decision regarding Courey and Koegel saw their nickname of an upgraded

the most asked question of most extensive action of 1979 

promotional campaign for
recent months-just who will at West Lafayette in Notre be at quarterback for the Dame's 28-22 lost to Purdue. Notre Dame hockey this September 6 opener against The two alternated at year. Purdue. quarterback in place of injured And break away-that's 
But don't hold your breath starter Rusty Lisch. Both Kiel just what the Irish will be lor a specific name. No one will and Grooms were very highly doing from the Western be sure ofthat until game-time. rated by prep scouting services Collegiate Hockey Associat­
"We know who the quarter­last year, both consistently in ion after this season as well. hack will be and who the the top five. A two-month scholarshipbackup will be," said Devine. Devine found himself in a moratorium and control on ·'Barring injury, we now know very pleasant dilemma when 
budget spending last springhow we'll go against Purdue." drills began two weeks ago, with have led to Notre Dame 
But as to which of the four five healthy, quality deciding to leave the WCHA leading candidates will fill quarterbacks to work with. He for the more geographicallywhich role, Devine said that will pointed out yesterday that 

compact-and , as a result,
be kept secret right up until many teams had to go far down less expensive-pastures of

kickoff. "We'll let everyone their depth charts of quarter­

the Central Collegiate
know at the same time that backs last year, some as far as Hockey Association after thisMichigan let us know last year," number six or seven, before year.

he said. "0n the first play of the season's end, mostly because of 

While this departure
game." injury. looms one year away, a
It appears that a firm decision In other news from Cartier was arrived at during the last Field, the depleted Irish campaign to fill more seats few days, probably following offensive line was spread even and generate more interest Saturday afternoon's closed thinner yesterday when junior in this year's team began full -door intrasquad scrimmage in Todd Bruni limped off the field scale over one month ago. which each of the four leading favoring his right knee. The ''The Breakaway so far quarterbacks played a quarter extent of the injury has resulted in the sale of with the first team offense. was not immediately available, over 1,200 season tickets," 
Seniors Mike Courey and Tim although it was not believed to said Mike Busick, Notre Koegel and freshmen Blair Kiel be serious. 
Dame ticket manager and and Scott Grooms all looked Last week, All-America one of the instrumental 
equally impressive in that candidate guard Tim Huffman contest. Senior Greg Knafelc [continued on page 17]
[continued on page 18] 


Life A.D. : Could history repeat itselft 
One year ago, almost to this very day, Dan Devine 
told a group ofmidwestern sports writers that he would 
definitely be around to see his 1979 freshmen recruits 
graduate. 
"I plan to be hen:at leastfour more years," Devine 
assured the Big Ten Skywriters. "We've just recruited a 
great group of freshmen and I'm going to see them 
through." 
Up until Friday. August 15, no one had reason to think otherwise. The football team, after welcoming .mother bumper crop of rookies, was in the middle of two-a-day workouts,when Devine called a meeting in the library auditonum. There he told his team that the 1980 football season would be his last at Notre Dame. A short while later, ABC broke the news to a national television audience during halftime of an NFL pre­season game. 
His reasons, Devine claimed, were personal. His decision, he emphasized, was final. 
But why? 
Why leave now,after two great recruiting years and 
nothing but good things predicted for the Fighting l rish of the future? After 3 3 years is he tired ofthe day­after-day drudgery of coaching football? Or does he feel he has accomplished everything he can in the profession? 
"Wait a minute, wait a minute," he interruptec with a laugh when I fired all those questions at him _n his office late one night last week. 
"I guess you might say it's for anumber of reasons and most of them are personal. 
"It has been a great experience for myself and my family to be at Notre Dame," he continued. "I'm very , close to this football team-especially the freshmen and sophomores. I personally recruited most of them and I've been in many of their homes. 
"I made this decision recently-within the last two months-and I really have no plans to ever coach football again. In fact, I have no idea 'Vhat I'm going to do when I leave here. Like I say, I don't think I'll coach again, but I won't say never because I'm sure there will _be opportunities. 


"ButI'm 98 percent sure this will be my last coaching job." · 
And that's about all you can get out ofhim. He made it very clear that he does not want to spend the whole season answering questions about his resignation. He does not want to distract his team or take anything away frofn their season. 
"in fact," he concluded, "I don't want to talk about it any further. Ifyou want to talk about the team, fine. If not, then I guess I have nothing more to say." 
Which leaves most ofus to sit and speculate on a lot ofthings surrounding this whole episode. Certainly the question ofDevine's replacement must be resolved, as do queries concerning the effect of his departure on the team-especially the younger players-and the upcoming season. 
But still there is more to be answered about Dan Devine. When we talked in his office that night, with a national championship clock ticking on the wall and the dimmed light from two table lamps reflecting off his many plaques and trophies, I couldn't help but feel that this man doesn't really want to leave all this. 
At least not yet. 

"Football has been a great part of my life," he told me in an interview last spring. "I really can't imagine myself doing anything else. 
"I just love coaching football." 

Which may be the reason he's been at it so long. Cerrainly neither money nor accolades could be his primary source of motivation, for Dan Devine has plenty ofboth. And he certainly has nothing tc [JrOVe ~ in the win-loss column. His record stands at 163-54-8 for a.739 winning percentage that ranks him eighth in that categoryamongactive coaches. His victory total is second only to Bear Bryant's among those still in the game. He wears a national championship ring, owns a plaque which proclaims him Coach of the Year in the NFL's National Conference, and he's logged time on the.sidelines ofevery major college bowl game-both in and out of this count~y. 
He could have packed it up years ago and neither his stats nor his bankroll would have suffered. 
But he stayed in the game ... until now. Now, when the pressure that finally got to Ara Parseghian, that finallv fired Terrv Brennan. that finallv killed Frank Leahy, is finally ~ea! :1g on Dan Devine, he's decided to get out. 
Pressure 

You haven't felt it until mu've inh.-1-,ited the office that those men listed h3ve ~or ked out ul. :'hey ~..J.Y the President of this country feels pressure, },,t even he is insulated from most ofit. The only indication he has of his love/hate rating is the numbers put 1ut once a week by Gallup and Harris that tell him \-\:t_ther to take a bow or take a powder. He doesn't evf'n have to read his own mail. 
But that is not the case in room C-18 ofthe Athletic and Convocation Center. People send you hate mail, curse you when you lose, credit others when you win, connive to take your job and blast you mercilessly in public and private. And Dan Devine is not the first to take this beating. 
"I don't know if this should be told, but they pushed him out . .. There wasn't any real reason. Not one you could explain." 
The man quoted here is Notre Dame's famous Fr. Frank Cavanaugh. He was talking about Notre Dame's famous coach, Frank Leahy. 
In 13 seasons as a head coach-two at Boston College -Leahy won 107 games, lost 13 and tied nine for an .892 winning percentage that stands second only to Knute Rockne's at Notre Dame. Still, they didn't like Frank Leahy. Still, they told stories about him. Still, the pressure finally forced him from his post. 
[continued on page 18] 










