
, , Basketball,...--page 16 
.. 

---~---------------------------------------------------------­

Vt II.. Xv. NO. (,2 

an mdt"pendent srudenr newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's FRIDAY, NOVEMBER21,19flo 
Iscandal mars racel 
By David Sarphie Staff Reporter 
Yesterday's Student Senate runoffs were marred by scandal, as Hans Hoerdemann, candidate in District 2, was disqualified for campaign violations. The Ombudsman Election Committee declared Frank Tighe the winner in that district. 
In the other races, Jim O'Neill defeated Bob Helle in District 1, garnishing 53% of the vote. Patrick Borchers was given the nod in District 3, easily defeating Carl Carney. A mere three votes separated the two candidates in District4, asJeffNewby slipped past Tom Weithman, 249 to 246. Only 28 people showed up to vote in the off-campus race, District 5, as Mitch Feikes defeated Kathleen Kucaba. 
Hoerdemann was charged with placement of posters in Keenan Hall on election day, exceeding the size limit for campaign posters, failure to submit a copy ofeach poster to the election committee, and failure to disclose receipts for campaign materials. "Tom (Koegel, election director) called me at two o'clock and said that they had received reports from Frank Tighe that my posters ·were too big," Hoerdemann remarked. "I understand that it put the Ombudsman between a rock and a hard place. I unknowingly used worthless computer paper for my posters, and so their only recourse was to declare my candidacy null and void." 

1 Carter adriiinistration agrees 
'I feel that my constituency gave 


Iin principle to hostage terms
I  
me a mandate to the senate on Tuesday.'  WASHINGTON (AP) ­The Carter administration has agreed  principle," M uskie said, referring to the terms set down Nov. 4 by  The Americans were seized Nov. 4, 1979, when a mob  
in principle to Iranian terms for  the  Iranian  parliament.  overran  the  U.S.  Embassy  in  
freeing the 52 Americans held  However,  he  added,  "that  Tehran and demanded the return  
Tighe denied that he initiated the investigation of his opponent's campaign posters. "OBUD conducted the in­vestigation independently," he maintained.  hostage in Iran for more than a year, Secretary of State Edmund S. Muskie said Thursday.  doesn't teli you much about the details, does it?" Muskie's remark apparently  of the shah, who was undergoing cancer treatment in New York. The Carter administration  
Following the election, Tighe .expressed confidence that he would have been victorious regardless of Hoerdemann's disqualification. "On Tuesday, I clearly defeated Hoerdemann, five dorms out of six," Tighe said. "In my opinion, the only way he could've I beaten me today was by violating the rules. He tried it and got caught. I  But other U.S. officials in­dicated there is still disagreement over the details of the Iranian demands and they cautioned against expectations of imminent release. State Department spokesman John H. Trattner  was the first by a senior Carter administration official that the Iranian terms for release of the hostages were acceptable even in principle. The Iranians have demanded a U.S. promise ofnonintervention in Iranian affairs, the freeing of  replied to the Iranian terms ten days ago in a message transmitted through Algerian intermediaries. While the response was not divulged, U.S. officials have described it as generally positive and said it included a pledge of noninterference.  


"I have no qualms about the results," he added. "I feel that my constituency gave me a mandate to the Senate on Tuesday." 
Voter turnout was sparse in off-campus District 5. "I think it's ironic that the district with the most problems had only a 2.5 percent turnout," Koegel noted. "That's a joke." 

warned against "over-excite­
more than $8 billion in assets Trattner said, "I would dis­

ment." 
frozen by the Carter administra­courage people reading into Muskie made his statement tion in retaliation for the seizure what has happened in the last 12 

after a breakfast meeting with of the hostages, cancellation of or 15 hours as any significant 
visiting West German Foreign all American claims against Iran pattern." 
Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher. and return of the wealth of the Iran has yet to respond "We've said publicly we late Shah Mohammad Reza officially to the American 
accepted the four points in PahlavL proposals, carried to Algiers on Nov. 10 by Deputy Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher and four other U.S. officials. Meanwhile, in Iran, reports 

quoted Prime Minister


NeUJ England Journal of Medicine reveals 
Mohammad Ali Rajai as saying the United States, in dealing with the hostage question, "has not 
understood the problem." 

Registering apparent dissatis­By Daniel Haney drab, gray pages of the New coverage and readership that the take estrogen during menopause faction with the negotiations Associated Press Writer England journal. For this is the New Englandjournal has." have stronger bones and fewer over the hostages, Rajai said, BOSTON (AP)-This week's world's oldest medical journal, A good medical library sub­fractures. There is a report of a "We intend to elaborate the 
discovery is a benefit of taking its most widely read and, many scribes to 5,000 medical journals, better treatment for cancer of matter more," according to female sex hormones. Last week, contend, its finest. but most specialize in narrow the pancreas, a reason why some reports by Pars, the Iranian news it was a way to stop the pain of "You can count on the fingers areas of human misery-diseases people suffer wheezing bouts agency. sickle cell anemia. So it goes each of the feet, for instance, or during virus infections, an However, Muskie said Iran was Thursday as the latest news of 
problems of the intestines. argument for reducing the num­taking a positive approach to the sickness and disease unfolds in But the New Englandjournal­ber of surgeons and a letter U.S. stand on release of the the New England journal of like its chief U.S. competition, urging doctors to consider the hostages and "that attitude is Medicine. thejournal of the American Medical heft of safety pins and Band-Aids welcomed." 
The weekly magazine, written when they weigh babies. Asked if he was encourag~d, by doctors for doctors, reveals Association, and the British Muskie said, "I think the way in the best, the latest, and the most of one hand the journals-that journal, Lancet-prints anything Plus five more articles, an which the Iranians have handled important medical research at cover the entire spectrum of the average physician should editorial, another "sounding our proposals is positive. They've hospitals and universities in the medicine," said Dr. Dennis know about. This ranges from board" opm10n on bedside discussed it quietly. They've dis­United States and Canada. Slone, director of the Drug experiments with new kinds of rounds, seven book reviews and cussed it privately. They've not 
When medical researchers Epidemiology Unit at Boston drugs to the debate over national 21 more letters picking apart tried to characterize it publicly or fantasize about making their big University Medical School. "No health insurance. earlier studies and offering reject it. So they've addressed it breakthroughs, they dream of others carry the authority and This week's issue is typical. A sundry observations on the art of seriously, apparently, and are tellinF; the world about it in the weight and have the widespread study shows that women who healing. going to continue to do so." 

UJeekly tnedicine breakthroughs 
-------· _____________________J 
r 
NeWS Brieb Friday, November21, 19so-page2 
--~-­


~~~======~======~======================~ 
by The Observer and The Auociated Press Jnside Friday 



The tales of a literary man 
The DowJones industrial average closed above the emotionally chl!-rged 1,000 level for the first time in almost four years yesterday after a late wave of buying swept through the stock market. The average, the oldest and best known indicator of market trends, climbed 9.13 to 1,000.17, its highest close since it finished· at 1,004.65 on Dec. 31, 1976. Several other, broader indexes hit all-time highs as the rally following President-elect Reagan's victory in theNov. 4 election continued. Trading remained heavy, though a bit off the blistering pace of the past few sessions. New York Stock Exchange volume totaled 60.18 million shares, down from 
69.23 million Wednesday. The biggest contributor to the Dow's gain yesterday was Texaco, which jumped three points to 48, hitting a record high, and led the active list on turnover of close to 2 ·million shares.-AP 
Millions of American smokers went "cold turkey" yesterday, a week before Thanksgiving, in a test of will power billed as the third annual "Great American Smokeout." Last year, a Gallup survey said 5 million of the nearly 15 million who tried to quit for the day lasted at least 24 hours, and the American Cancer Society, which sponsored the effort, was optimistic that at least that many would make it again. Many communities and American Cancer Society chapters staged festivities for the Smokeout. It began as a one­day anti-smoking campaign dreamed up by a Minnesota newspaper publisher in 1974. The Smokeout was started by Lynn Smith, a Monticello, Minn., weekly newspaper publisher and reformed smoker. The idea spread to California and was finally adopted ona national basis by the Cancer Society. -AP 
FBI directorWilliam H. webster said yesterday the agency is not discounting a man held on federal charges in Salt Lake City as a suspect in the sniper attack on a civil rights leader in Fort Wayne, Ind. Ata breakfast session with reporters, William H. Webster said avowed racist Joseph Paul Franklin "has not been eliminated as a possible suspect" in the shooting last May ofcivil rights leader Vernon E. Jordan. Franklin, 30, is being held in Salt Lake City on federal civil rights charges stemming from the shooting of two black joggers· there last Aug. 20. Franklin has pleaded innocent. Discussing a recent surge in attacks on blacks, Webstersaid, "We've had this belt of crimes across the country in several cities, starting in Salt Lake City, the Vernon Jordan shooting, shootings in Ohio and Indianapolis." Noting that Franklin has been charged in the Salt Lake City shootings, Webster added, "It wouldn't be appropriate for me to make accusations other than that with which he is charged, but I am confident that that belt ofactivity will stop...! think that was a significant arrest."-AP 
Walter Polovchak, the 13-year-old Ukrainian boy who is in the midst ofa court battle over whether he can remain in the U.S. against the wishes ofhis parents, will visit Notre Dame this weekend. Polovchak will be presented with a football by Moose Krause, take a tour ofthe campus and then be a guest of honor at a luncheon with Fr. Hesburgh. Afterwards, the boy will view the football game from a seat on the 50-yard line. Duane Beckmer, a South Bend resident and a self-professed "student of history," will be Polovchak's guide while he is here. Bcckmer conceived the notion of the visit because the boy is" sports-minded," he said, and"if the decision should go against him, at least he'll have the memories ofhis day htre." Polovchak especially wished to speak with Hesburgh, Beckmer added, because of his interest in matters of civil rights. -The Observer 
Partlv sunny and coolwithhighsinthe low to mid 4lSs. Fair and cold at night. Lows in the upper 20s and low 30s. Mostly sunny Saturday and warmer. Highs in the lower 50s.-AP 
The Big Man on Campus (BMOC), a phrase out ofthe chauvinistic days ofracoon coats which now 
. must read BPOC, exists on campus today, and the BPOC's type may be divided many ways. Larry Siems is ofthe sort known as "the literary man on campus," though he doesn't wear a tweed jacket and you'll see him smoking a pipe only under the most unlikely conditions. 
He is editor of The juggler, the literary publica­tion on the Notre Dame campus. And as Playboy used to ask of its potential advertising clients "What kind ofman readsPlayboy?", we went to Mr. Siems to ask "What kind of person reads The Juggler?" Why? Whatkindofmanedits Thejuggler? These were the questions. 
And the answers we received led us to believe that Mr. Siems has had to think 
of those questions recently.. and more: who should be reading The]uggler, what should be represented as literature in that once-a-semester publica­


tion, and who should write for it. 
An editor should think these things through occasionally, and Mr. Siems is being request­ed to do just that by the University, who finances the· feisty literary publication along the order of$6,000 a semester. We thought we would ask the same sort of questions. 
When the word elitist enters the conversation, Mr. Siems gets uncomfortable, not because he does not want to answer the question but because he has heard the word before and knows that people take his response to the word the wrong way. 
"The experience of sitting down and reading a book is an experience enjoyed by very few people these days," he began with a long, thoughtful drag ofhis cigarette. "Literature is not something that (today) you enjoy on a day-to-day 
basis-andmodernliteraturehasproducedakind of literature that is especially difficult." 
Literature, he said, is published today for a smaller group of people. "So you could say," he concluded, "that literature is elitist in its publication, yes." 
And The]uggler specifically? That's the question its editor and his editorial board have had to deal with lately, fall being their season to read the texts submitted to them by undergraduates, graduates, faculty, Saint Mary's women, and others interested in the life and breath of literature at this University. 
"The ideal is to fill the magazine with under­graduates ... period. That is what I'd ~lways,hoped to do," Mr. Siems pointed out. But the reality of 

DeJign Editor. ........... Margaret Kruse Dm'gn AuiJtantJ... Mary 'I can't make up my mind Dumm, Steve 'Super Chicken' 
O'Brienl Nt'ght Technician ......... Kathy Crossett I Day Technician. ........... Bruce Oakley NewJ Editor ................ Lynn Daley 
FeatureJ Layout . .. Molly "Senior Barred" Woulfe Typiit .................... Katie Bigane SyJtemJ Tech"ician ........ Bob Huffstodt ND Day Editor ..... Ryan Ber Serkmoes Cltmi/ied Layout .......... Steve O'Brien Ad DeJign . .......... Woody, Anne Fink Photographer .. .............. Jacki Wasni No Show ... Michael Chrysanthemum Monk P.C.,and the Bumster! 
The Obaernr (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tilt Obaerver ls8ubllshed 
by the students of Notre ame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor $20 per year($1 0 per semester) by writing The Obaernr, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Obaerver Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved. 

~~~~~~~~~~ 

SUNDAY MASSES AT SACRED HEART CHURCH 
5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, c.s.c. 9:00a.m. Sunday Rev. John Fitzgerald, c.s.c. 
10:30 a.m. Sunday Most Rev. Wm. McManus, D.O. 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. AusHn Fleming 
Mark 

Rust 
Managing Editor 
editing demands that decisions be based on literary standards. "I think that the artistic talents of the people here are undercultivated. And it's really hard to make blanket statements about the abilities of the students here-their abilities to write literature-because they haven't had a great deal of training in literature, nor do they have a great deal of interest in literature." 
It does not take an excess of imagination to reduce that tastes in literature often do not
.. 

coincide, and it should surprise no one that the holder of the magazine's purse strings has appinted four faculty members and a member of the Office of Student Activities to oversee the editors in the deliberations. 
Although the idea of censor­ship annoys Mr. Siems, he takes with resignation the fact that this situation reflects the plight of publishing today generally. 
"It's the same everywhere, really. Although here it is more bound up with moral traditions, it is sort of an attutude preva­lent in the publishing industry everywhere: the product must be a consumer good" 
Does that suggest that The 
juggler must serve the masses? Whether it does or not, Mr. Siems is not happy with the idea. He is annoyed by censor­ship, butintheendhemayhave 
to buckle under to the demand of his financial overseers in a manner roughly analogous to the commercial publishing industry. 
He says that is not the way it should be. "The university is the one place that should be allowed to do literature for the sake of doing literature," without the constraints of restrictive standards of acceptableness, withoutanyconstraintssavethose of the literary world, a world that deals with ideas and structures and never rejects a work on the basis of its view of life. 
Mr. Siems is not yet ready to say that any of the works submitted to him have been rejected on that basis, or even that he is under pressure to reject them. But in the meantime he's looking for lots of texts, and he will be judging them on their literary merjt. Someone, after all, has to be the literary ~ man on campus. 


The Observer Friday, November 21, 1980-J1'd..Bf! ~ 
Gideons visit ND campus 

By Mary Fran Callahan Senior Copy Edrtor 

Standing in brisk November winds yesterday, the Gideons­an international non-profit Christian association-distri­buted free copies of their bibles to the student body. 
Th! organization is the same one responsible for supplying hotel rooms nationwide with their bibles. 
Fr. John Van Wolvear, vice president for Student Affairs, said that he had approved the Gideons' visit to the University long in advance. 
"It's not like the Moonies at the football games. Those are the people we go after. They're (Gideons) not violating any of our rights, and we're not vio­lating theirs. They have per­mission," Van Wolvear said. 
Both local and out-of-state Gideons asked students if they received their"free gift" as bibles were offered. 
Acting Director of Campus Ministry Fr. John Fitzgerald explained that the Gideon bible is accepted in the Catholic church. He said their version used to be controversial but now is considered a universally Christian bible. 
"There are a few books in the Old Testement that were not included," Fitzgerald said, "but 
Parisian collection opens 
A rare collection ofdrawings of Paris completed in the 19th and early 20th centuries, never exhib­ited before outside the Musee Carnavalet in Paris, will formally inaugurate the Print and Drawing Galleries of The Snite Museum of Art on November 23 at the University of Notre Dame. 
The exhibition of 104 drawings includes works by such important artists as David, Prudhon, Girodet, Chassiriau, Gericault, Guys, Signac and Fantin Latour. Also included in the display are works by Dauzats, Forain, Bailly and lsabey. 
An American tour of the drawings was organized by John Dobkin, director of the National Academy of Art in New York City. 
~~..._.~ .... ~ ............... 
f:~*************~'
* *'
t* COPY ~ t '~ ·----· * t

t* * 
~EDITORS ! t 
t*---------* t 


'~{t ~~,
t~ !t t~ !t 
t! -brief but-~ t 
! '* !* mandatory *•*' ; t '*•* *'*
, * meet1ng ~ t
t: 0 I * t'*'*-sunda_y 1 p.m. * : t t* * ' t!* newsroom !*' t 


~~!.*~*..!~*..!~ 
this bible contains just the New Testement and the psalms and proverbs, and that is the same." 
Fitzgerald applauded the Gideons' gesture saying the group was "dedicated to sharing the word" 
Wendall McClinton, assistant director of the national Gideon headquarters in Nashville, Tennessee, explained the organizational makeup of the group. 
"We are a non-profit group of businessmen and professionals who work in 126 countries in 51 languages," McClinton said. 
The spokesman added that the Gideons receive all financial support by donations from members and churches. The Gideons who travelled to South Bend yesterday paid their own fares as well as helped finance the bibles they distributed. 
McClinton said the Gideons date back to the late 1800's when a group of travelling salesmen founded the Christian organi­zation. The Gideons first began supplying hotels with their bibles in 1908. 
"Most any first-class hotel today will have one in the room," the assistant director comment­ed. He added that the organi­zation also provides hospitals and college campuses with the bibles. 
Alfred Englebert, a Gideon from Warsaw, Indiana explained his motivation for supplying the organization with his money and 
his time by simply saying, "A person has to make a choice in 
his life one way or another. That's why I'm doing this." 
Notre Dame receives 
•
$350,782 tn grants 
A National Institute ofHealth for Education Opportunity/Talent grant of $144,744 for a training Sear.::h directed, by Dr. Thomas program in experimental para­F. Broden, director of the sitology and vector biology top­Institute for Urban Studies, and ped a list of awards totaling Roland B. Smith, Jr., director of $350,782 accepted by the the Upward Bound Program. University of Notre Dame for -$6,900 from the Council 
the month of September, ac­for the International Exchange cording to Dr. Robert E. of Scholars for a Visiting Gordon, vice president for ad­Fulbright Professorship to Dr. vanced studies. Kenneth P. Jameson, associate 
The training program is professor of economics. directed by Dr. Paul P. -$5,000 from the Corning Weinstein, professor of biology.. Glass Works Foundation for a Other awards for educational program to increase the number programs, which totaled of women and minorities in $227,368, included: engineering, ·directed by Dr. 
-$70,724 from the U.S. Jerry]. Marley, assistant dean of. Office of Education for a Center engineering. 
• 
Guest rooms surrounding a spectacular glass domed Indoor pool and recreation area. 

• 
Fine dining, entertainment and dancing In Arthur's Restaurant, Aldie's Show Lounge and the Irish Pub. 

• 
Special "Symposium" room with banked seating for audio-visual presentations. Conference suites and other facilities to 400. 

• 
2 night weekend package available by advance reservation. 

• 
Lavish executive and bridal suites. 


Midwa~ Motor Lodge 


Elkhart City Centre 300 S. Main St. Elkhart lndlana'46514 
(219) 295-0280 

·~ .. rlJS£land gives Duggan aplaque.
Award 
Duggan became an honorary member rfthe Rotary Club at a "luncheon held at the College 
Thursday, November 13 . 

Saturday: Double Bloody Marys until end of game 
May the Force Be With Us! 

The Observer Friday, November 21, 1980-page4 




Marine faces charges of desertion 
CAMP LEJEUNE* N.C.(AP) May 1967. F. Eisenbraun and Marine 
the North Vietnamese freed Garwood1 34, is being tried Lance Cpl. Russell Grissett. Marine Pfc. Robert Garwood befroe a JUry of five Marine Eisenbraun and Grissett died in from a jungle prison camp ~n officers on charges he deserted, captivity.1967 but he chose to remam collaborated wtth the enemy, After describing ·his own 
with the enemy, a former assaulted two fellow POW's liberation ceremony, Ortiz-Riv­
prisoner ofwar testified yester­and tried to entice other Ameri­era said Garwood was freed at 
day. cans to surrender. an identical affair but decided Former-Army Pfc. Luis Ortiz­An Indiana native, Garwood to stary with the Vietnamese Rivera, a Puerto Rican who disappeared while driving a rather than return to American 
spoke through a Marine inter­jeep near Da Nang in 1965. He forces. 
preter, said Garwood stayed at resurfaced almost 14 years later Ortiz-Rivera was captured two a POW camp ''because he said when he gave a Finnish days after Christmas in 1966 he felt better with the Viet businessman visiting Hanoi a and was released 13 months 
Cong, because they treated him note requesting repatriation. later. better than the U. S. Army." Ortiz-Rivera, who said he was He said he obtained his 
Ortiz-Rivera, a member of a freed severa months after freedom at a ceremony attend­helicopter supply group in Garwood, said that before the ed by the American prisoners, Viet-nam, said he attended a ceremony Garwood had been including Garwood, South Viet­
special ceremony at which living in the POW compound namese dignitary.Garwood was formally freed in along with him, Army Capt. W. He said the ceremony consist­ed of several speeches and a rare meal of pork. Following the ceremony, he




fWINTER'SHERETfl 
said, he and another Latin American prisoner were march­ed for five days to the vicinity of American forces, given a red sash to wear to ensure they were not shot by other Vietna­
'STORE· I 
{YOUR BIKE!!! I
mese and turned loose. The presiding military judge, Col. R. E. Switzer, permitted 
the testimony by Ortiz-Rivera following a lengthy argument in which chief defense counsel 
twhere: gate 14--stadiuml 
t when:mon. dec 1~ IJohn Lowe attacked the Puerto 
Rican's competency. Lowe contened that the former 
Ituestt dec 2~ wed~ dec 3. t 
soldier had told other defense lawyers he did not remember a
• t 
number of details from his period of captivity and was

t8:30-10:30 am I
relying almost entirely on a military document to flesh out

I 2:30-4:15 pm t 
flesh out his testimony. The document was a transcriptt NOTE: -t of Ortiz-Rivera's debriefing, compiled by officieals at Fort
t BIKES MUST BE REGISTERED: Am Houston, Texas, a week 
after he returned to the American lines. 
' register at: LOST AND FOUND t Previous witnesses have testi~ 
fied that they saw Garwood
t ROOM 121, ADM· BLDG : carrying a gun while he was in 
captivity and that he struck a
t BETWEEN 9-11 am , 1-5 pm fellow POW.




L-----------------t 


This Sunday the Farm Labor prgani?ing Committee at Notre Dame will sponsor a day in honor ofthe migrant farmworkers. The purpose of the day is to observe the plight of these laborers who follow the harvest throughout America. 
These men, women and children are an integral part of the multimillion dollar food­providing and processing in­dustry. Without the help ofthese fieldhands the farmers in many sections ofour nation would find it extremely difficult to bring their crops to the marketplace. 
They make it possible for Americans to enjoy the plentifulR harvest which graces our dinner table. 
This contribution to the American economy is consider­able, yet seldom mentioned. Yearly, the migrants are respon­sible for harvesting in excess of $50 million worth of vegetables. Our entire system of vegetable farming is based on the availability of migrant fieldhand labor. This value to local economies is also substantial as they annually spend 60 percent of their wages in these communities. 
10 :00-? MONDAY NIGHT liVE ROCK and ROLL with ''PARKOVASH'' 
boogie on down and rock it 


The Observer Friday, November 21, 1980-page 5 
In Ollna 
'Gang of Four' trial begins 
PEKING(AP)--Chairman Mao Tse-tung's widow, the once­r,owerful leader of the radical 'Gang OfFour," walked calm­ly into court yesterday and with nine other defendants heard charges they persecuted nearly 3~,000 people to death and brough"untold disasters" to China. Her composure desert­ed her during the reading of the charges and she broke into tears, Chinese reporters said. 
The long-awaited trial of China's much publicized "Gang," as well as six mem­bers of the "Lin Piao Clique," got under way before 3~ judges and 880 invited observers in a courtroom not far from Peking's central square. The 10 could face death sentences if convict­ed. 
Seven minutes of film of the trial were shown on Chinese television, with promises of more detailed coverage in the days ahead. Foreign reporters were barred on grounds state secrets would be discussed. 
It was the first public look at the defnendants since their imprisonment from four co nine years ago. 
The bespectacled widow Jiang Qing, 67, her jet/black hair cut short and brushed back from her face, entered the courtroom escorted by a female guard and, head held high, looked around slightly. 
The leader of what now is called the "Jiang Qing Clizue" lost her composure and wept at one point, Chinese reporters said. They said soe of the other defendants shed tears as well. Two of the elderly male defendants apparently had to be helped to their seats. 
The opening session was devoted to the reading of the 20,000/word, 48/count indict­ment against the 10, who sat in a row in front of microphones. They were separated by metal bars from each other and from and stage an armed coup, possibly with Soviet help, in 1971. They have been in custody since then. 
The Xinhua news agency said five of the defendants had asked for lawyers. It said Jiang Qing rejected all three lawyers suggested to her when they refused to subtitute for her in answering questions in court. The agency mdicated she would be conducting her own defense. 
Summing up the charges, prosecutor Huang said the 10 had tried to overthrow the 
Mine shaft collapses 
JEFFERSON ISLAND, La. (AP)-an abandoned salt mine shaft 1300 feet deep collapsed yesterday, draining a lake with an enormous whirlpool, sucking in an il rig and a tug boat and threatening to cave in a small salt island. 
"We've ordered the island evacuated. There is the paten­tail for the island to cave in. We're not taking any chances,' said Wayne Knack, district manager of the federal Mine Safety and Health Administra­tion office in Dallas. 
Officals said no injuries were reported. 
There was no immediate information about the number of people onJefferson Island, a salt dome that supports a Diamond Crystal Salt Co. mine and related operations, a tourist garden and some oil operations in the midst of the southern Louisiana marshes. "Picture a bowl with no bottom and you're pouring a thick mixture of flour and water and it's just going down and down, government and split the state; tried to engineer an armed rebellion; had people injured or murdered, framed and perse­cuted people and conducted demgogical propaganda, all for counter-revolutionary ends; ex­torted confessions by tonure, illegally detained people and led counter-revolutionary cliques. 
The total number listed as persecuted to death now comes to more than 34,824 higher than the number known from pre­viously released excerpts of the indictment. 
greenhouses, you name it.'' 
Sheriff Romo Romero said 
his biggest problem was 
keeping thrill seekers from 
riding boats to the lake. The 
area is lacd with natural gas 
pipelines, he said, and one had 
broken, although it had not 
caught fire. 
The area was blicked off, and the Federal Aviation Ad­ministration restricted flights for three miles around the one and a half mile diameter lake. 
All seven men of the rig and the ~0 men in the mine escaped safely, according to offictals at Diamond Crystal and Texaco Oil Co. 
Officials said the tourist gar­dens were being developed at great expense. 
Gullies dug by the water's force led into half/ mile wide crater, where half a dozen salt . barges floated along with a sinking house trailer and many trees, said Ed Bowie, who flew with Piazza. 

STUDENT UNION is sponsoring 
Sugar Bowl Tour Packages 
• 300 Packages Available 
• Ticket, Round Trip Transportation 
and 5 day/4 night Hotel Accommodations Included 
Additional Hotel Accommodation Packages May Be AvaiJ.able 
See Monday's Observer for further details 
JEAN MICHEL COUSTEAU ''Underwater Jungle Laws'' 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 25 8:OOpm library auditorium 
f\\~~

sponsored' by the S·U· ACADEMIC COMMISSION 
the judges, who sat at tables facing the defendants under a national insignia. A row of armed soldiers sat behind the defendants. 
Television film shovved Jiang Hua, president of the special court, calling for the detendants to be brought in one at a time and then chief special prsecutor Huang Huoging, seated with a micro~ •hone and a cup of tea, st;1ctint, to read. 
Five of the defendants will be tried in another session for their part in alleged persecutior.s and the late Defem,e Minister Lin's alleged plot to assassinate Mao and it's eaung away at the edges of the bowl. That's what is reminds me of,'' Iberia Parish deputy sheriff Otto Guirard said. 
"Thin~s-mud, water-are iust pourin~ mto the crater, into the mine ttself,'' Guirard said. ''We watched a barge go down, and... It just disap­peared.'' 
''It has swallowed, I mean literally swallowed, the gardens that were there,'' said Peter Piazza, a: news photo­grapher who flew over the lake. ''Inside thts hole were barges, trailers, parts of the 
Wejustmight
lieonygur..· bail••• 
See our recruiter on campus Dec. 3, 1980 

l1inocchio's Pizza Parlor open SUN. 4:00-11:00 WATCH AIR FORCE ON OUR BIG SCREEN!!! Game Special $2.00 pitcher· $.40 mug 
ernmon11 
BeerSpecials Every Nite­
n 
-oT., 
8:00to 9:00$.30Mug_
~~; j 
$1.50 Pitcher 

"' ~ 1-iljumlllli·per-• 1 
~--·-··-·--·-··-·--·-------....-..------··-··-··--··-·...
12.00of{1111y ll.OOoffany
1 
LMtfeJ>iu. 1 SnYIIPi~ 
Career Opportunities at Vepco. 
If you are unable to talk with us during our recruiting visit to your campus, please send your resume to: Professional Recruiting. Virginia Electric and Power Company, Box 2666, Richmond. VIrginia 23261 
look for a challenging career with Vepco-an equal opportunity employer 
\llrslnla Dec:trk and Power Company, Rldlmond, \llrslnla 23261 
Vepco 

The Observer Friday, November 21, 1980-. page 6 
BOOKS ARE A GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFT IDEA 
' 

Explore the SECOND FLOOR of the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, A PORTRAIT OF ITS HISTORY & CAMPUS By NOTRE DAME All-Americans.
WAKE UP THE ECHOES By THE Professor Thomas Schlereth (A Photos and descriptions of Notre Ken Rappoport. The story of DAME 1981' CALENDAR By Beautifully 111ustrat~d History Dame All-Americans from
Notre Dame football. $8.95 Philip C. Thompson $5.95. A of Notre Dame(, Hardbound
lasting gift (the 12 priors can be 1903-1978. $6.95
$25.00, Paperback $7.95. 
framed). 

FOOTBAL~ SATURDAY HOURS 9am~5:30pm ~ 
''We aren't ]UST textbooks _you /:mow!''
Second Floor -~--­
WASHINGTON (.AP)­
Ronald Reagan and ] immy Carter, rivals no more, sat,

Reagan, down together in the Oval Office on yesterday for theri • first private meeting since the long presidential campaign
Carter ended in Reagan's landslide victory. 1 
discuss 
When the meeting broke up ·after nearly one and a half hours, the president-elect praised Carter for cooperating 10 the transititon to the Reagon 
• administration . 
upcommg "He has made it much easier than it otherwise would have been," Reagan said as the two men posed for photo­graphs in front of the marble
transttton 
fireplace in the Oval Office. "We have a very good 

CAMCAR DIVISION 
OF TEXTRON, INC. 
Mechanical Engineers 
Camcar Division of Textron,' Inc., with corporate headquarters In Rockford, IL, Is a leading designer and manufacturer of custom engineered fasteners and precision cold-forming parts used In products ranging from automobiles and jet engines to rail­road cars and household appliances. 
THe Vice-President of Engineering will be on campus Tuesday, Nov. 25, 1980, to Interview 
Mechanical Engineers. 
Sign up in the Placement Office. 
working relationship personal­
ly," Carter said. He said he 
and Reagan discussed the 
transition and ''some of the 
issues I have facedc as presi­
dent.'' 

Carter emphasized that he 
and Reagan are in agreement 
that the outgoin~ chief execu­
tive will be president "in the 
fullest sense of the word" until 
Inauguration Day, Jan. 20. 
The meetin~ ran far longer than the 30 m10utes originally shceduled, and Carter said the two leaders emphasized "some of the common commitments we share." 
A short time after the meet­
ing, Carter left the White 
House for a visit to Camp 
David, Md. 

Although the White House meeting had been planned for several days, the two men and their wives actually encoun­tered each other is a less than planned fashion. 
The Reagans arrived at the sun-bathed South Portico of the White House one minute early, at 1:59p.m. EST, and the president and his wife, Rosa­lynn, rushed out of the Diplo­matic Entrance there to greet them. 
The president and the presi­dent elect grinned broadly, each looked at his watch,and Reagan acknowledged that he was "a little bit early." 
"We're very glad to have you here," Carter told his successor and the incoming first lady, Nancy Reagan. ''I think you'll like the place. " 
Carter then escorted Reagan to the Oval Office-as much a symbol of presidential power as it is a workspace-and Mrs. Carter took Mrs. Reagan on a White House tour, two months to the day before the Carters 
move out and the Reagans 
move in. 
The Reagans arrival by mo­
torcade from their government 
owned residence onehalf block 
from the White House was 
heralded by the wail of sirens 
from police escQrt motorcycles 
driven by the same corps that 
had ushered Carter around 
Washington for four years. 
In addition to more than 100 
reporters, photographers and 
technicians who witnessed the 
arrival, there were numbers of 
White House staff members, 
some with cameras, awaiting 
the new ftrst familv. 
But no one feered from the 
windows. The TRulman bal­
cony, where Carter family 
members often watched arn­
vals of other dignitaries, was 
empty except for some fading 
yellow chrysanthemums. 
A butler dressed formally in 
a black suit and white bow tie 
opened the green doors of the 
Diplomatic Entrance just 
seconds before the Reagans' 
limousine drew up-and nearly a 
minute before the Carters 
appeared. 
Although the logistics of the visit took considerable advance planning by the Reagan and Carter staffs, Carter had no formal a~enda for the confer­ence, srud White House staff director Alonzo McDonald. 
"I don't think any one of them needs any kind of special preparation,'' he said. ''These are very special kinds of meet­ings. It's not appropriate to have a lot of staff work. These are very SJ.>ecial people who are very rare 10 the world.'' 
Before traveling to the White House, Reagan was given a second consecutive briefing on national security matters by CIA director Stansfield Turner. 
Then the president-elect met 
for about 45 minutes with early 
congressional supporters of his 
campaign. One member of the 
group, Rep. Bob Badham, (R., 
Cal.) produced for Reagan's 
autograph a copy of a Van 
Husen shirt advertisement 
which featured Reagan as a 
model in the Life magazine 
issue of Dec. 12, 1953. 
The advertisement was 
issued at the time Reagan was 
starrin~ in the movie ''Law and 
Order' and it bore the legend: 
"Won't Wrinkle Ever." 
Reagan looked at the ad and 
said, ''I was never that 
young." 

He was also presented, by 
Rep. Carroll Campbell, (R., 
S.C.), with a new political 
button. 

He read its message: "re­elect President Reagan '84." 
Science council sponsors lecture 
Dr. Paul P. Weinstein, biology professor at the University of Notre Dame, will present "Encounters with Parasites" at 7 
p.m. Friday, Nov. 21, in the Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium at Notre Dame. 
The lecture, sponsored by the College of Science Student Council, is one in theNotre Dame Distinguished Scientist Lecture Series. It is open to the public. 
According to Weinstein, the study of parasites and parasitic diseases is important because of their profound effect on man. Malaria, one of six parasitic diseases targeted by the World 


'Friday, Noyember 21, 1980-page 
\' 
GO BIG 


·,. 

FOR GREAT 
SERVICE 
FROM SOUTH 




,4nMES 
OMAHA 
DENVER . 

Now you can go B1g Red four times every day from South Bend-two departures east 

Los ANGELes to New York, with intermediate stops, and two departures west to Los Angeles or San Francisco, with intermediate stops. Plus you can also make convenient connections to over 15,000 cities and towns nationwide. 
CHICAGO 


And wherever you go along our Big Red routes you'll en'joy that famous Trailways torsion-smooth ride and comfortable red carpet service every mile of the trip. 
You'll find Trailways in South Bend at the Michiana Regional Airport on U.S. 20, or for information on routes and rates, just 
·Call 232-2577. 

•

-
EditOrialS 
Friday, November 21, 1980-page 8 
High schoolers trash Notre Dame campus 
· Michael Onufrak 
Destruction, caused by rioting sending ND security to "bust" not say how he learned that the upcoming "Death March." The Fat Wally's and then march to the· Hoosier High East students,. local Hoosier watering-holes in football players themselves were march, held annually before the Nazz where we will gorge ourselves wreaked havoc on the Notre Dame retaliation for the damage. responsible for the damage, but final home high school football on doughnuts and Pepsi at Darby's campus late last night. The "But we will seek financial another independent source con­game, has been a constant source Place. Next we will march upstairs 
students, celebrating East's foot-eompensation from the parents of firmed it for The Observer. ofdestruction and friction between to the Huddle and consume as ball victory over archrival Michiana the offending students," he said. Jones, an all-state fullback, when ND and South Bend officials. Last many specials as possible for at West, stormed onto the North' Besides the toilet-paper incident, reached at home, said that he and year South Bend high school least an hour. The real fun will Quad by the hundreds and draped raucous students also spray-painted h~s friends had already visited students "marched" en masse begin at Dillon where we will hold a the entire Memorial Library with two University-owned stop signs, from theNazz to the Huddle, across wild party which conforms to ND
campus and found the toilet paper 
toilet paper. The library will remain let the air out of the tires of two removed and the window cleaned. the quad to the Dillon party room, party-room guidelines. Then it's closed until the clean-up is com-student cars, and etched a soapy to the Saint Mary's club house, and over to SMC for a poetry reading, 
"And we let the air out of those pleted. obscenity on a window at the tires weeks ago," he added. "It finally to senior bar. and finally to senior bar where we'll Dean ofStudents James Roemer, Rockne Memorial gymnasium. An stand in the crush and go wild when 
seems to me the ND administration "I think it would be in particularly 
reached at his home early this estimate of how long it will take to is looking for an excuse to stir up poor taste for the students to go they play Born to Run, Blitz said. morning, said he will ask for a repair the damage could not be 
some trouble between ND students· through with the march with the "We don't want any troublemeeting with Hoosier High, city made at press time. 
and us. Hey, we want to be good recent destruction following the from the administration," saidand state officials later today. And who will have the respons­neighbors too," he said. Jones also last football game. ND students are Sheila Hick, president of West's"lt's finally gotten out of hand," ibility for the clean-up? 
noted that the incident would have still upset from that destruction and junior class. "But we think thesaid an angered Roemer wiping the According to the Hoosier East no bearing on his upcoming decision the specter of high school students march is a tradition which deserves sleep from his eyes. "This happens principal "the students will clean it regarding his collegiate plans for bounding around campus bearing to live on. That's why ten members after every big game and it's a big up." . 
next year. more of the same is quite distaste­of my class will follow the march­hassle for our students, all ofwhom "I will infor.n football captain "ND's still in the running," ful," Roemer added. ers and clean up the mess theyus~ the libr~ry religio~sly. _Thi.~ Johnny "Ram" Jones that he and Jones said. Larry Blitz, president of leave."
tOJlet paper _Is really dlsgustmg. his ruffian friends will have the In a related story, Roemer also Michiana West's senior class, Hick noted that her group willRoemer demed that he would be ,,~nsibility for removing the 
"recommended" that graduating said, however, that students would bear several large coal shovels, a Mic•hae/ Onufrak is Editorials toilet paper and cleaning the win-· high school seniors refrain from· march regardless ofadministration new Hoover vacuum cleaner, and a 
Editor of The Observer. dow at the Rock." Malone would participating in this weekend's opinion. "The seniors will gather at trash compacter.
h. 

Here and Now 
Let's put the Kennedy Assassination behind us Maxwell Glen and Cody Shearer 
WASHINGTON -Everyone A majority of Americans agree panel based its determination on Blakey, the co~mittee's chief tonian magazine's November remembers where they were when with this assessment, but they're scientific evidence that a second counsel and author of its final issue, he says Blakey mistakenly they heard the news that President also scared of what the truth might gunman shot from the top of the report, contends the Warren refocused the committee's resour­Kennedy was assassinated -the reveal. "grassy knoll'' near Dealey Plaza Commission could have solved the ces on theories of an underworld 
in Dallas. case in 1964, but was too pre-conspiracy, neglecting still unan­specific classroom, factory or res­
taurant. But that's practically all Central to the national frustration The Stokes Committee, the occupied with vindicating the "one swered questions about a possible that's certain about the tragic over the Kennedy assassination is largest and most expensive ad hoc man assassin" theory. CIA-Cuban connection. events of Nov. 22, 1963. a lingering belief that the federal congressional panel ever convened, "The CIA the FBI and the, Fonzi's article wades through 
government never fully cooperated spent $5.4 million before conclud­Secret Servic~ blew the biggest the int~rnal P?~itics of the Stokes Fifteen years after the Warren with theWarren Commission. More ing that the CIA, FBI, Soviet case of the century," said Blakey, Comm1tee? c1t1~g how dead-~nd Commission completed its $10 
than 80 percent of the public now Union, Fidel Castro and American­who now teaches criminal Jaw at . leads lead mvestlgators off the nght million investigation of Kennedy's 
thinks that, contrary to the com­based, anti-communist Cubans did Notre Dame University. "If the 'pat~. . murder, and almost two years after mission's finding, Lee Harvery not conspire to kill our 34th pres­government admits that it failed 15 L~ke Bl~ke~, Fonz1 would reopen a House select committee reopened 
Oswald did not act alone in Dallas. ident. , years ago, they'll have ·to try it the 1~v~st1gatwn. . the case, we're no closer to its Their curiosity about accomplices Yet the committee didn't rule out again. But they don't want to get W1thmseveral_weeks, aNatton~l resolution. and conspiratorial plans has been the possibility that agents working into that." · 'Academy of Sc1ences panel will 
flamed by extensive theorizing independently of one or more of The former chief counsel says r~view the "acoustical data". pro­On the eve of another Kennedy despite government efforts to these groups might have plotted to organized crime killed the president v~ded bY_ ~he St?kes Comm1tte~.
assassination anniversary, the squelch such speculation. murder Kennedy. and that the warren Commission S1x phy~1e1ans w1ll test the panel sprobability of solving the c~se never solved the case because it conclusiOn that a second gunman
This month, two Stokes Com­
seems very slim. Many of the pnn­The most recent investigation mittee investigators, G. Robert ignored the possibility of a con-perched on the ~assy knoll fired at cipals involved in the investigations 
was supposed to have answered the Blakey and Gaeton F onzi, pub­spiracy. "If I had 25 FBI agents, ~e~edr but "!'.1ss~d. (Th~ acoust­have died, making the case increas-remaining questions. lished separate theories of the five investigative prosecutors, and 1~al ev1den_ce Will cons1st of the ingly difficult to unravel. Kennedy assassination. While the six months I'd be able to tell you if tape on whiCh the Dallas motor­
The House Committee on I could brlng an indictment," he cycle policeman accidentally 

Maxwell Glen and Cody Assassinatons, chaired by Rep. the last, they help explain why told reporter Michael Duffy. recorded the sound of a fourth Shearer are two relatively new Louis B. Stokes (D-Ohio), boldly Kennedy's death scars the But Gaeton Fonzi, the other bullet.) syndicated columnists who will be concluded in March of 1979 that investigator from the Stokes Com-There is no guarantee there will 
latest versions probably won't be 
American conscience and continues 
featured in The Observer from the president's death was probably mittee, argues Blakey is the one be any follow-up to next month's
to plague law enforcement officials. 
time to time. the result of a conspiracy. The who really blew it. In Washing-brief review of evidence. But if the !=======;=:========================================== study leads the analysts to contend 
Doonesbuty 
MR. KISSI/IIfiel?, A5 'rVlJ K..waJ, MANY PWPLI? AI?& CfJNCEmEI) A8a/T(j{)V&F..­NOR PeAVAN'S LACJ< OF 
SOPHIST/CAT/(1.1 IN RJR&I(JN Affi/!RS. 
\ 
IF y(}(j W&R£ APPOINTtfl5EC/?£TARY OF STATE, fAI(JJL'{l YOU 8E AEJl£ 70 A/?APT 70W.. fl131'6AN:S -mNfJ£NCY 70 t<ef1tJC& EXTREM&/...Y C1JMPI£X 
11{{5RNATIONAL /93(}£5 70ASC/?1?3 OfAPPI.AUS8 L!NE5? 
\ 
Of COURSe. IN fACT, I 7HINI< Ci.X/W YOfJ ONe-l!N&R5 CAN GIVE lfS AN
8E V~Y t/S£F{JL
IN THe CXJN!ltJCTOF MAM';E, 
_.-fORE16N SIR. . ffJtiCY. 
I 
....,R"~ 

Garry Trudeau 
SIR, WIU Y(}(jIE
·I PA/JJ ffJR 
"TRYING 70 GET
!HIS MICR.O­
(j{)VC/?NM!3NT
PHONE,MR. 8R.£ZHN!3V.." 
OFf TH£ 81/C/G 
Of THE fYXES ~
/ 
\ 
that there was a "second gunman," another federal investigation may be in order. 
Although many Americans would probably complain and say lots of taxpayers' money has produced no conclusive results to date, their skepticism shouldn't mean that a conspiracy didn't exist or that one couldn't happen again . 
Moreover, a conclusive invest­igation would relieve us of all the crazy theories offered over the years. 
Rehashing the painful evidence i1L!lot easy. But ours is a strong country, so let the chips fall where they may so these nightmares can end. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
lhe Obsener.== 
Editor-in-Chief..•....•.... Paul Mullaney SMC New_s Editor ....... ~ .. Mary Leavitt 
&x Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Managing Editor .....•.....•.. Mark Rust Sports Edttor .........•... Beth Huffman 
TIJ1 Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Editorials Editor...•••.•••. Mike Onufrak Features Editor .•...•.•..•• Molly Woulfe 
uuiversity ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Senior Copy Editor •.. Mary Fran Callahan Pho~o Editor. ..... ·-' "-····":.-.·John Macor
reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reported 
.,_ . u L"J: T J k Busmess M1111ager ........... Greg Hedges 
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a LA'BCUttve Hews L:.¥'ilor . . . . . om ac man .,.. ~-" ]" R dd 
. .._onffUI,er . . . . • . . . . . . . . • . . . . • • • un u
majority ofthe Editorial Board_ Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views News Editor ......•••.••..• Pam Degnan Atlvertisi"g Manager ...•.•...•. Mark Ellis 
oftheir authors. Column SJ?ace is available to all members of the community, and News Editor. ...•..•..•...•. Lynne Daley Circukltion MAnager ...•...• Beth Hackett the free expression of varymg opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
SMC Executive Editor•.•..• Margie Brassil Prodm:tio" MAnager .•..•.• •John McGrath 
• 

------~-------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Friday., November 21, 1980-1page9 

P.O. Box 
While the community support is

Self-responsibility 
encouraged and appreciated, such sophomoric antics of a few are not

at SMC 
welcome; they greatly detracted Dear Editor, from an otherwise fine evening of 
In response to the interview with music at Saint Mary's. Dr. Duggan (Nov. 10) concerning the motives behind the rules at Clayton Henderson SMC, I would like to question whether they do, in fact," encourage Editor's note: Clayton self-responsibility and self-develop­Henderson is chairman of the ment among students." Saint Mary's music department. 
Last week I was refused a drink at the Gipper's Lounge (Holiday Inn) because the only identification McinernyI had with me was my Saint Mary's ID. I am 22, and found it annoying that the waitress would not even position confusing look at it because it was from SMC. I was told that this is the policy at the Holiday Inn -they never Dear Editor, accept IDs from SMC. Professor Ralph Mcinerny's 
Do our rules really promote recent excoriating reply to Professor responsibility? If so, why does the E. A. Goemer(The Observer, Nov. Holiday Inn have this policy? If our 14) is utterly unworthy ofthe man. rules help to make us responsible Mcinerny, praised by Goerner as a citizens, why doesn't this hotel in lover of justice, finds his opening 
our community accept our school salvo in a tactless and misleading ID as a positive identification? Do attack ad homnem; from there he . they feel that the SMC students are proceeds to a thoroughly puzzling not as responsible as the adminis­point: Mcinerny, it turns out, in tration thinks we are? both his original article and now his I believe in Saint Mary's, and I rejoinder, means only to have 
believe in Dr. Duggan. I also "some fun at the expense of others." How silly of Goerner to take him comedy and ridiculing those with essary remarks about Bruce's back-uses in Point Blank. Does Tim
believe that rules have a place and seriously! How naive and humor-the temerity to reflect seriously ground, home, musical ability, and have any better method to express purpose in society-and at SMC. 
less of him to draw out serious upon his words. Can it be that even sanity. the monotony and repetition thatBut I question Dr. Duggan's state­implication from so casual and Professor Mcinerny is surprised to Sullivan_commented on the con-are so often evident in life? Inment that at SMC, "we both make lighthearted a source! The move is be taken seriously and challenged? tent ofthe song Independence Day Bruce's world, these have alwaysand enforce rules in such a way that clever, but it just won't wash. His response seems to indicate as saying that Springsteen should been prevalent; and Bruce onlywe encourage self-responsibility ..." 
In his aticle, Goerner promptly much. It is a dismal commentary "see a therapist" insteadofrelating sings about life as he knows it. To and rightly acknowledges the o~ acade111:ic dialogue. ~u~ perhaps his troubles to his fans. I ask, what further support the ~se ofrep~tition,
Mary Pat Cavanagh 1 
inconsistencies of so-called "sec-With practtce he too Will Improve. makes his release of anxiety through check out a classiCal mus1c col­ular humanism." Thus, tlfe ridic-a song any less acceptable than lection some day.Concert conduct ulous positions taken by some Joseph Wilder paying someone else to "cure" liberals are not argued. What is Department ofGovernment him? This is not a display of self-
immature noticed by Goerner -and made indulgence, but rather one of self-an issue of argument-is the dependence. If this "critic" has no veiled endorsement of Ronald Springsteen revieW respect for a man who works out
Dear Editor, .,,. n 
Reagan as a corollary to condem-some of his own problems, and
The support given by the com­
nation ofcertain unreflective liberal attempts to aid other young people 
munities ofSaint Mary's and Notre 
positions. To this Goerner tries to at1 attack to do the same, then we can't
Dame to the performances of the 
exert some pressure to keep a expect him to understand the agony 
Saint Mary's choral organizations 
legitimate debate alive: the dangers and pain of which Bruce sin~s.
in their recent concert was greatly 
and costs of single-issue politics. Dear Editor, . The Boss's "childish" lyrical
appreciated. At the same time, 
Whether one agrees substantively In the Thursda~, Nov.~ Issue of content is concerned with virtually 
however, the reactions and behavior 
with Goerner or not, the point The Observer, Tim Sullivan very the same topic as his previous
of a few in the audience was wholly remains that this is an important bravely defaced the name of Bruce albums, I'll admit this. But he has Overall, Sullivan's critique ofinappropriate and immature. The and arguable topic. None of this, Springsteen. He informed us ofthe added various new dimensions The River is nothing less than akind of actions in which one engages 
however, figures in Mcinerny's true role of a critic, and then and refined the old. Those that direct attack on the man. I thinkin support of an athletic event are 
rejoinder. proceeded to make a mockery of resemble his old tunes have more that even non-fanatics can easilynot necessarily appropriate for a The implications are there in the term. If he saw no meaning in personal and emotional words. The detect this assault. Although it ismusic concert. The noise, laughing, Mcinerny's Scholastic piece· th~ album, ~e s~o.uld tell us this ne~ tunes feature a part of life of certain that his "review" will doand other generally immature .' wtthout makmg VICIOUS and unnec-which Bruce never before spoke, little to hinder the success of
behavior of those few were very G d d h h
o.erner respon_ e tot em as t eir love. Is it wron for him to write Springsteen's fifth album, Timdistracting to the majority of senousness mented. Unfortunately, Th~ Observer welcomes letters about this "musty" as ect that is Sullivan should realize that his persons in the audience and on Mcinerny seems to prefer to deny from tts readers. Letters should be t . t . ~ 
1 1 "objective opinion" of this album
'bl'l' f · d. J b' rp .J d · d. 'T' preva en m mos 1ves.
stage. It is a shame that some need the posst 1 tty o constructive type, , uou ~e-s aceu an stgne, . .1 o, . . 
left something to be desired.
to be instructed in common courtesy dispute -· now conveniently insure swift publication, the wrtter Sulhvan also pomts out the and appropriate decorum. shrugging off his own article as a should include his/her phone number. "uncanny gift of repetition" Bruce Tom Reed 


Universities turn corporate-size profits in research 
Art Buchwald 
WASHINGTON-Harvard Univer­bucks in research and we're getting to the telephone company people 'to doubled in price, and monkey glandssity is thinking of going into busi­sick and tired of doin~ all the work put in their Princess phones, ~o they are out of sight. A grant trom NIH ness. So is Stanford. Our great and letting commerctal companies can reproduce any color phone they hardly pays for rubber gloves anyschools are toying with the idea of make the money.'' want without painting them. It's more. We're in a squeeze, son, and setting up companies to cash in on "But won't it compromise your probably the btg~est breakthrough we have to go where the money is.'' 
their own research. What has trig­academic ideals if you start doing m gene c9mmumcations made so "Isn't there a danger that tf you
gered all this is the work the research just for profit?" far. The business school is very do research you won't exchange
universities have done in genetic "Academic ideals, my foot. We're excited about it. If it does as well as information with any other scientists 
engineering and gene-splicing. It is making money and that's what a we think it will I've been promised a because you're trying to protect your
supposed to become a multi-billion university is for. We've had a great big bonus as well as stock options at trade secrets? ' ' 
dollar business and the universities year. Our net is up by 300 percent, $44 a share." "I don't know if it's a danger or 
feel they should have a piece of the and gross sales doubled over the I_ said, "I guess what I'm driving not, but you can bet your sweet life 
action. What's wrong wtth it? past nine months. Fortune magazine at 1s that if the universities have a we're not going to let the people at 
JUSt put the school on its 500 list. My vested interest in their laboratory Harvard and Stanford know what 
I wasn't certam, so I sought out advice to you is to buy stock in the work, who will do the pure research we're up to. They'll l'ust take our my friend Prof. Heinrich Applebaum university. We're going to become which is so vital to the nation?" 
findings and try to sel them before 
in his laboratory. The professor was another Xerox." "The students," Applebaum said. 
we do. We're-not in research for our 
cutting a gene tn half when I found ''I'm sure of that, Professor. But it "They're not included in our profit­health. I have to go now. I've got a
him. seems to me if universities are all sharing plan. They can do anything board meeting and they want me to starting compani.es you will beco~e they want in the labs as long as they tell them when we can launch our
"I almost did it," Applebaum more interested m market potential don't interfere with our commercial advertising campaign for our newsaid. "I have to get a sharper than in the results of your work. In a projects." 
garbage-eating bacteria. It could beJrnife." 
few years you'll only be doing "But you seem to be changin~ the our biggest Christmas item this "Professor, I understand the uni­expenments to enhance the compan-entire complexion of what a uruver­year."
. " 

versity is goin_g into ~e gene tes you own. sitr, is supposed to do." 
business for profit. Does thts bother "We are already," Applebaum 'That's easy for you to say. Do Art Buchwald is a syndicated 
you?" . chortled. "You know the gene I was you know a whlte rat now costs $65? columr.'v featured regularly in 
"I should say not. There are btg splicins-? Well we think we can sell it Viruses are going UQ, bacteria have The Oburver. 
r. 
Features 
Friday, November 21, 1980-page 10 

'WayOutO£ No Way' Magic
\ 

Doug Kreitzburg 
\ 

A -theatrical production is obliga­ted not to the audience, not the cast, nor even the scrip~ but to the art of theatre. By tapptng the creative energy which binds all elements of a production into a unified whole, the production reasserts itself as an art form every moment. This energy allows the actors to burst through their characters and transport the premiere mainstage produc~ion of A Way OutofNo Way spices Waslling­ton Hall with this theatrical magic. 
action  to  the  limits  of  human  
potentiality. At this point,  theatre  
' becomes magical.  
The  Notre  DameI Saint  Mary's  

Director/playwright Julie" Jensen manages to inspire the actors with a beliefin · and their abili· 


CELO!fers 
Michael, a small elderly man of 
seventy-eight sat hunched in his 
wheelchair. His feeble hands, crippled 
by arthritis, were clasped in his lap. His 
firte gray hair was matted, his eyes were 
covered with a film, and cookie crumbs 
covered his lips. He was dressed in a red 
flannel shirt and his legs were covered 
with a red lap blanket. His green eyes 
seemed to be staring at the paper cup 
ofwater before him but I knew better­
Michael was blind. 
This first meeting with Michael 
began a semester of weekly visits. I 
would come to his room and listen to 
him relive his "better days" of hard 
work and a night life. I felt like I was 
really giving this man a lot by coming 
to talk one hour a week, but I came to 
realize how much more I was receiving. 
This realization came to me only 
after thinking about and sharing my 
visiting with o·~hers who were doing 
similar projects. This sharing came 
through a one-credit course called 
ReHections on Service. 
It met once a week for an hour and a half to discuss reflections on a few assigned readings in relation to the experiences of service; the groups were very small; and members worked with various programs. This same opportunity is being offered again next semester. 
If you were to take the course you would find that the few required readings and journal entries complement the open discussions about the service, writings and readings. The group provides a support for your service work and it is a 
Seminars 
sharing of the diverse services. Whether you tutor eight-year-olds or 
juvenile delinquents, whether you visit 
the sick or the elderly, thetaare many 
shared feelings. 
This one-credit course is one of those checkmarked courses offered as experiential learning in which books are not the main source of information. The "human document" becomes a main source of knowledge. Another such course is the three-credit Theology and Community Service which is the same type of course on a more comprehensive scale. Each student visits two residents at a nursing home weekly. 
The seminars are groups of approximately eight students discussing more readings and journal entries directed toward old age and working with the elderly. Ti).ese students then tie up the semester's experiences in a case study of one resident which ends up to be more ofa study of relationships and your own growth over the semester in facing issues of human relations, aging, dying and compassion. 
More information and preregistration for these checkmarked courses can be found at the Center for Experiential Learning, Memorial Library, Room 1110 (Phone: #2788). Usually, the enrollment is limited, requiring interviews of those interested, so it is important to sign up quickly. 
Irene Prior is a senior at Notre Dame. 
Irene' Prior 

ties. B'elief is neither selfishness nor 
r ecentricity. It is the knowledge that one can create; one can reach deep within oneself and produce palpable life. Jensen focuses the actors' beliefs and energy upon a production and th~ stage comes alive. 
A Way Out of No Way is the recreation of the early yeats of Sojourner Truth, a black woman born a slave in New York, who proclaimed herself free at seventeen, and fought for civil rights the re'st of her eighty-odd years of life. Jensen uses this woman to set the script within a historical perspective, a perspective which acts as a spring­board for various themes. Theatre ttirns relationships into displays and the relationship most prevalently displayed withm this play is the relationship between the black heri­tage and the white hertitage. The plot ia a fluctuation of this relation· ship. 
The unifying force that binds t_he two, and is stated from the begin­ning, is God. ''The same stars shine on everyone," Mama Bert states. The {>lay moves forward by the inabihty of the characters to recog­nize this, to step beyond the limits of their narrowmmded worlds and ac­cept human commonalitY. 
Of the twelve members in the cast, one is black. The ability of white people to assume black roles leaves a bad taste in one's mouth lingering back to the Showboat days 
. of blackface, ragged clothing, and AI • ]olsen, but the cast leaps over their · racial obstacle. For one hour and forty.five minutes, they are black. Their performances stem from that creative energy and belief that Jensen has given them--each mem· ber of the cast was immersed in the slave tradition through research and determination to create. 
Rachael Patterson as Isabella 
gives her character the strength needed for the slave-girl to move through the play. Her two previous mainstage roles, Ma~gie, in Teeth n' Smtles, and Zinida, tn He Who Gets Sla.[>ped were adults who languored amtdst the frustration of their exis­tence. Isabella requires hope and childish vigor with a perceptive understanding of the situation. Patzrr· · terson manages to accomplish this, and J?Ortrays the charactet' s mental emottonal growth realistically. 
Adri Trigiani and Kathleen Macio manage to control their respective characters of Betsy and Tess using energies from their usual comic efforts to. sustain their serious roles. Mark Pizzato plays the disabled Ceasar well, although he sometimes had a tendency to overplay his characters when the focus is directed elsewhere. Tim Grothaus seems more relaxed as Dumont than he was as Bezzano in He, yet he has a tendency to be too rigid in his movements. 
Raul Aportela, in his first stint in a mainstage production plays the com­ic overseer, Catlin ana the Master, George well. He seems a little unused to his surroundings, how· ever, and exaggerated the theatrical~ i$m too much at times. Scott Thomas's proud Irishman, Nealy, and the slave; Thomas while energe· tic, do nots'eem to find pu.-pose ~ His relationship with the other charac· ters could be more defipite. 
, . Eileen Durkin's, Margaret Nealy 
JS. hwn(}rou~x .vigourous,. b~t th~ ~¢et someumes hampers~ inflec· tton,Joyce}prdan, also.a ftrst timer 
....I:.!.~~~~~~~S· ~~~es #te<sh~! its. 
first push in the beginning, as does Mama Bett with her ftrey gospel speech. Her lines tend to get lost as she finishes a breath, however. 
Greg Delessandro plays a remark· ably fine performance as Bomefree. He tones down his usual ·comic m.annerisms to play the aged slave wtth tenderness. His speech relating Mama Bett' s death is one of the best in tht" show.. 
Every time Joe O'Brien speaks, he grabs the focus. In this, his third mainstage production, he relates well with other characters and is totally comfortable on stage. My only problem is with the interpreta· tion of Nl1.taniel as a New York City 
''jive nigger'' rather than a Southern "dirt nigger." There is a. difference between whip marks and heroin tracks, and ' this descrepancy takes away from the play's perspective. 
Regina Pratt's r;>ortrayal of the slave child, Rose Pnde, is one of the highlights of the show. Her bewil­dered face as she stands on the auction block capsulizes a history of injustice and depravity. Linking this character to her other character, the preacher who ap.~ears at the end, one sees the play s movement from slavery to freedom, from the silence of the auction block to. the voice ·proclaiming God's kingdom beyond the manacles of this life. · 
The main problem with all the actors is that the ardorous task of creating a character totally unlike oneself sometimes takes away the power of language. At times, the actors gloss over the focus that seems to be within the language because they are trying too hard to be the character. 
Brian Wolfe's set is the most. innovative design that has been seen on the mainstage since the All Over production, two years ago. The arrangement of the platforms shows a concern for the space Washington Hall provides. The rough-hewn tex· ture of the wood bespeaks the environment of the play. Wolfe's lighting also highlights the set, backdrop, and the characters. Mau. teen Ulicny's backdrop not only compliments both set and produc­tion, but masterfully evokes a sens1: of. the artistic "BEYOND". '" · Dee HaWfield's muslin costumes 
cleverly help the actors assume their various characters without constant costume changes. 
The music works in this regard also. The spirituals are sung weU' and are moving. Jordan's "No Mor~ Auction Block For Me," and Tri~i­ani's, "They L<;d My Lord Away ', stand out espectally. Jordan moving through a ''wax museum'' auction scen.e while singing is brilliant stagmg. 
Judging from the productions of Jensen's staged here, Lu Ann, Teeth n' Smiles, ancf A Way. (}ut Of No Way, she shows versanhty towards her craft. Her productions are be· coming more eclectic, theatrical, and 
~timulating. A Way Out OfNo Way 
ts her best work to date. Her directing is "educational" to educa· tional theatre. Every production is a learning experience for die actor the technican, and the audience. ' 
A' ~ay Out Of Np Way is engagtng for the audience. This production is an appeal for the spectator to work for himself to accept the play's intentions and the intentions of theatre on its own terms. J!le productio~ proves, that, not only ts to be black ts to be divine but the art of theatre is divine, also'. 
• 
Doug Kn.<eitzbers is an English and Theatre maIJOr ft.:pm Media, PA.
.. .. 



~---~ 


Features 
Friday, November 21, 1980-page 11 
TO A LONELY GOD 
I'm Dreaming of a Young Christmas 


REEL REVIEWS 
Loving Couples: a screwup 
The romantic comedy genre in American-film making is one of the most enduring forms of celluloid ex­pression. Since the days of Gable and Lombard, a plethora of classics has ridden the sprocket of'success. Loving Couples (a recent release showing at the Forum Cinema) does nothing to contribute to this noble heritage and is probably best forgotten. 
Billed as "an irreverent look at love, marriage, and infidelity" it is better described as irrelevent, and irrational. The film is nothing more then a classic example of why writers weaned on T.V., often do not make the transition to the silver screen succesfully. The screenplay was penned by Martin Donovan, who achieved notable success writing for shows like that staple of the rerun circuit; "The Mary Tyler Moore Show" and the perenially bland "Room 222". Unfortunately, Donovan's dubious efforts as a screenwriter lack the chief allie he had during his days as a producer of video fodder, namely a tape of mindless cackling known as a "laugh track". Thus a line that got Karen Valentine oodles ofcanned laughs, when deliver­ed by Shirley MacLaine leaves the theatre filled with nothing but the sounds of munched popcorn. 
The basic story is more contrived then a National Enquirer article on Jackie O's sex life. Essentially, the plot has a continually horny real estate agent named Gregg (played by Stephan Collins, who's performance you probably slept through in last 
year's snoozer: Star Trek -The Movie) lusting for no apparent reason after a doctor named Evelyn (Shirley MacLaine, the well-preserved but hopelessly homely veteran, plays this part). Evelyn's pompous doctor-husband (stoically performed by gravel-voicedJamesCoburn) gets wind of his wife's affair from Gregg's live-in girlfriend Staphanie (a droll perfor­mance by Susan Sarandon). With the two couples effectively switch off, this should be the makings of a good screwball comedy, right? Wrong, the results are simply screwed up. 
First ofall Gregg is made out to be a travelling stud interested only in measurements. Thus having him lust after Shirley MacLaine is utterly sense­less unless he has a fetish for women who resemble balding sheepdogs. The audience is supposed to cheer Evelyn's desertion of her overbearing husband. Unfortunate they neglected to 
-~­

make him as a much of a cad as they could have resulting in her actions coming across as those of a bored spoiled wife. Rather then cheer Evelyn's actiotl.s, oursupposed heroine assumes a rather callous position in the minds of viewers. James Coburn's portrayal of Walther is a performance worthy ofMount Rushmore. At times, his usage of cue cards seems a distinct possibillity. 
Finally, Susan Sarandon's portrayal of a TV weathercaster clouds any abomination ever forced upon viewers in the Michiana area. Her complete ineptness as an on-air talent comes mostly from her lack of acting ability, rather then any efforts to poke fun at TV weathermen. 
The sole bright spot in this mixed bag is Sally Kellerman's portrayal of a nymphomatic seductress bent on tempting the virile Gregg. One gets the feeling Kellerman actually viewed 
RyanVer-4 
her role as somethong more then a quick influx ofcash. Unfortunatly, her role serves no real purpose other then to provide cheap titilation and provide the scriptwriter with a lazy way out of several situations. 
Even the most mentally deficient viewer cannot help but notice the numerous quirks, flaws, and gaffs in production. To say the storyline has so many holes it resembles Swiss cheese only allows me continue by saying the whole production reeks like Muenster cheese. In this day and age, ragged film splices are reserved for stories about wilderness families, and do not, have any place in a feature film from a major studio (Time/Life Films). Continuity problems abound. An example has Gregg wrecking his car in one scene, and him driving it in the next. This all adds up to a shoddy production that does not bide well as Time/Life Films first independent feature production effort. Producer David Susskind's venerable reputation picks up some tarnish that. even he ironically aludes to in this comment he made regarding the film: "It's remarkable, one day there was nothing, then a year later was 
Lov(ng CouPles. 
If it had not been for a scintillating companion, snores would have emanated from my mouth before the film's halfway point. What else can be expected from a film that continually offers the potential for entertainment, but frustrates it's viewers by not delivering. Such frustration inevitably leads to boredom, which is never a bargain at $3._50. 
·~ 
Nickie's Jeannie, the red-headed girl, has done more to change my life with a necktie than all the retreats I ever made. It was a Countess Mara necktie, costing, I believe, nearly thirty dollars. (In the days when I wore neckties regularly, my shoes--which were ox-blood brown from Tom MeAn's, at three­fifty a pair--and my suit tog~ther 
didn't cost anywhere near thirty dollars, but at that time, I still had my hair.) A face-lift couldn't have made me feel more youthful than that thirty dollar tie.Some men my age might spend ten titnes that amount on Geritol, and still fed like the Founding Fathers of Wrinkle City. All I needed was a Christmas tie, my first one in thirty years, and I felt like a kid again, as though I were sporting pores erupting wtth acne, transplanted from a teen-age group of Youth For Christ. 
Wearing a necktie is a religious experience, the first time you do it, when you're a middle-aged priest, used to the collar that commits you to Rome. Put off the old priest, put on the young man, you think as though you were undergoing a regular baptism of desire. Last Christmas Day, looking in the mir­ror, I felt like crytng, like a born-again Christian brought to TRUTH; my new Pierre Cardin shirt was tapered, for God's sake, to sheathe my figure in a gray pastel the color of cigarette ash. Fumbling with the buttons, I thought of the years of being bleakly bagged in Vatican black. "Who needs to be 
renewed by faith," I wondered, "if he could be a swell dresser. Who needs the Pope, if he can be styled by Harris rweed?" 
I don't need to be rwenty; but sometimes, walkin~ out in the even­ing, I like to be smtled at as a fellow with a bit of mischief left in his bones, tolerant of salty talkers on adjoining bar stools. I like to light cigarettes for pretty women in rooms where Bobby Short is playing Cole Porter tunes on the piano. Nothing could be more neutral than a cigarette, against a background of Gerswin, with Somebody Interesting on one end, laying her lacq_uered fingernails against your wnst to steady your hand, and you on the other end, administering a match. It is a ritual of the world by which one brushes a~ainst endless possibilities. Ideally, I m suppose to hate the world; and there should be no looking back. I never do look back, if looking back means wishing I had made other choices. But one can feel very happy, sitting in Sardi's, wear­ing an tmported shin, realizing that thts too. is part of faith: simply being yourself, one of the rank-and-ftle members of the Kingdom, without a uniform to give you an officer's identity. 
A flower vendor, coming in from the street, offers to sell you roses, as though there were someone you were going to talk to, to say the special things that roses signify. You shake your head: there is no one, but thanks for asking. Thanks for identi­fying me with husbands and lovers who bring home gifts. 

Sometimes, because of ordination, you feel that you've been seat,.cl int the lifeboats, out of harm's way, with the women and the children. You get treated as though you were not very real, a kind of Velveteen Rabbit issued from the Vatican. Even in mufti, I lack versimilitude, destitute of the dimensions of grace that would make me one of the Beautiful People; but at least, while I'm wearing my Countess Mara, they don't ask me about birth control. They don't ask me, in my Cardin shirt, if I believe in Fatirua. 
In a month, I will have owned my shirt and necktie for exactly a year, . and fashion has made me humble rather than worldly. Even as a swell dresser, I am umimpressive, with a permanent place on the stag-line of life. Last summer, in the restroom at the Rainbow Grill in New York, I got asked by a man if I'd like to dance with his wife. We were stran~ers, and he didn't know I was a pnest; but I could imagine a future scenario when a woman might realize she had once danced with her confessor. I told him I was sorry that I didn't dance. 
I could have told him I didn't carry credit cards, either, which is even more unforgivable at the Rainbow Grill than owning feet that don't do the rhumba. 
"My God," he said, "you're lucky.'' He stared unhappily into the mirror, and I was afraid that as one stranger to another, he was going to tomplain~ about his marriage 
"Old guys like us," he said finally, "should be home in bed." 
"Oh, you foo~," I wanted to 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
"Can't you see how young I look in the Christmas presents Jeannie gave me?iYour wife makes you old, but I don't have a/wifewho makes me old. I don't appreciate being called an old guy who should be home in bed." 
Shirts wear out, and ties get spotted. Illusions fade as quickly as they come. Christmas is a holtday when our clothes get replaced and our dreams get renewed. 
Oh, Jeannie, Jeannie, Nickie's Jeannie: doyou suppose this year, we could afford to send me to a Swiss clinic for a face-lift? Just a very little face job, an inexpensive one, so that my appearance can ,match my heart and my shirt? My shirt's not old, and my heart's quite young. It certainly doesn't help either one of us to have some stranger in the Rainbow Grill, calling your Griffin an old guy who should be home in bed. 
Jeannie thinks it's better for me to make a retreat. The Pope, if he knew, would think it better if I made a retreat. Pierre Cardin and Coun­tess Mara, if asked, would probably suggest that faith does more than tailoring can to keep young looks on the face of man. So I'll make a retreat. In black shirt and collar, I'll make a retreat, but I'll do it in Florida, where they won't notice if I'm old. I'll do it in Florida, where I cari search for the Fountain of Youth. 
Last year at this time, before Jeannie changed my life at Christ­lmas, I didn't even mind being over fifty. 

The Observer====== 
Friday, November 21, 1980-page 12
Weekend 

Campus 
Molarity Michael Molinelli 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1980 • 
•9 a.m.--trip, to st. joe 
MOTHER bt.JCI<, 1l> ~AS, 
OK GVY,!;
hospital to visit kids 

COt--liNG,~ D~I.Jil'"~4 1ZJ: If
H07HER Wcl<"m ~!iSAFr\'AS

•4 
p.m. -lecture, rabbi marc tanenbaum inaugurates the hebrew and jewish studies collection, library aud 

•5:15 
p.m. -mass and supper, bulla shed 

• 
7,9:30 p.m. -film, "coal miner's daughter" loretta at 13, carroll hall (smc) 

• 
7 p.m. -performance, joe heaney, library aud 

•7,9:15,11:30 
p.m. ­film, "being there", Engr. aud. 




Peanuts ® Charles M. Schulz
• 7 p.m. lecture, 
"encounters with parasites" beware of what sits next .to you, 278 galvin. 
~ARRIET!! ~OU'RE TELL THEM, ~ARRIET..TELL 
• 7,9:30 p.m. -. film, 
Tl-lEM HOW Lf'OO'D DECIDE
BACK!'1'0U FOUND U5!

"china syndrome", carroll 
WHICH PATJ.fS TO TAKE...
hall (smc) 
• 
8 p.m. -square dance, Ia fortune ballroom 

• 
8 p.m. -theatre, "a way out of no way", wash. hall 

•8 
p.m. -nazz, "i" featuring the bustomantes. 


•8:30 p.m. -coricert, 
@ 1880 United Feature Syndicate. Inc.
50's rock and roll, ace 
• 8:45 p.m. -bowling, alpha phi omega, leaves from keenan lobby 
ACROSS 24 Malden name 45 Writing 22 Acquire
•to p.m. -nazz, "the­
1 Wisecrack word material 25 Moisture 
The Daily Crossword
end" 
5 Hasp 25 Unsteady 46 Rattan 26 Pointed 
10 Refuseto 28 Considered 47 Besides arch

SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 
budge 33 Mentally 54 Rival 27 Sojourned 14 Chills and quick 55 Apart 28 Irritated
22, 1980 
• 7,9:15,11:30 p.m. ­
fever 34 Equip 56 Fabric 29 Quiche

film, "being there" engr. 
15 Early 35 Bravo! 58 -out ingredient
au d. 
Jewish 36 Flow (supple· 30 Drench 
scholars 37 Battle of mented) 31 Burstyn of 
•7,9:30 p.m. -film, 
16 Succulent the-59 Uncovered the stage plant 38 Upper 60 Particle 32 College 
"china syndrome" carroll 
hall (smc) 
17 Oil cask throat 61 Assembly: officials
• 8 p.m. -theatre, "a 
18 Cheroot 39 Holiday abbr. 34 Uncivil 

way out of no way", wash 
19 Use the time 62 Because of 37 Tennis 
subway 40 Moves with 63 Tall story stroke 20 Agreeto difficulty 38 Sales 

hall. 
• 9 p.m. -nazz, garcia­
terms 41 Appeared DOWN premium
marcello band. 
23 March 42 Blushful 1 Preserve 40 Need

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 
date 44 Animates 2 Sponsorship 41 Circle 

1980 
3 Fat 43 Scandina· 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 4 Awesome vian bays 5 Servile 44 City on 
•11 a.m. mass, 
thanksgiving mass, regina 

follower Rio Grande 
hall. 
6 French 46 Midshipman
• 2 p.m. --recital, pianos 
friends 47 Partner of 
7 Professor· Currier

and concerto things in the 
ial robe 48 Missile 8 Grouch 49 River in 
library aud. 
• 6:45 p.m. -meeting, 
9·1Sermonizing England
ella, library' lounge. 
lecture 50 Jacob's 10 Certain brother 

boatman 51 Vehicle 11 Inter-52 Particle
Deadline 
12 California 53 Leading town horse, 1950 13 Poignant 57 Alphabet 11121/80 21 Pointless sequence All Rights Reserved
extended 
The application deadline for the Social Concerns Seminar has been extended to 4 p.m. on Friday, November 21. Applic­ations can be obtained at the Student Activities Office in LaFortune or at the Center for ExperientialLearning(lllO East Memorial Libnry). Completed applications sh•Juld be submitted at the Center for Experiential Learning. 

--------------~------------------------------­
-~ 
The Observer Friday, November 21, 1980-page 1'3 
ND women plays~ Dakota 
By Maureen H eraty Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's women's basketball team leaps from Division III to Division I tomorrow against South Dakota. Notre Dame combines two scholarship players, the first ever for Notre Dame women, and three tried-and-true veterans for a starting team. New coach Mary DiStanislao hopes to help the Irish bridge the gap between divisions. 
Perhaps South Dakota could give Notre Dame a few tips on playing in Division I for the first time. South Dakota made its Division I debut last year and compiled a 14-15 record, not bad for a first season. 
Four starters return to the South Dakota team, older and wiser, but hopefully not taller. Deb Peterson, a sophomore forward, stands 6' 4" in her stock-1 
. Poles
• 
(continued from page 16} 
foul" after he slugged Irish center Gilberto Salinas who had appeared to have inadvertantly elbowed Mlynarski while going for a loose ball. 
The loss of Mlynarski, who head coach Marian Kozlowski called his team's "best player," was not the only significant loss for the Poles in the game.Justyn W eglorz and W ociech Rosinski both fouled out with the second period just past the half-way mark, leaving the Polish squad thin on the bench. 
"It was a fight on both sides," Kozlowski said through an interpreter. "I think our team lost because our best players fouled out. When Mlynarski was disqualified, it really hurt our play." 
It was just a matter of time until the Irish caught up with their weakened opponent and surged ahead for keeps with 7:36 remaining. Lead by Paxson, a 6­2, 180-pound sophomore guard, and his nine points in a little more !qan three minutes, th.e 
Irish  gradually added to  the1r  
lead.  
"Tripucka  plays  a  very  

sophisticated style of ball," said Kozloski of the Irish tri-captain who finished as the game's lead­ing scorer. "He is a very un­predictable player on offense. We knew before the game that he was the best player for Notre Dame." 
With Tripucka back in the line-up after being benched with four fouls early in the second half, Jackson up to form from the outside, Woolridge underneath and Sluby and Varner making their contributions, the Irish managed the 10 point win as Paxson sunk a 22-footer just before the buzzer. 
"I know that they are tired," said Phelps of the Polish squad that must play five more games in as many days. "but this game was what we needed -to come 

but no details were ly available . 
ing feet. "] udging from last year's 
game," remarks coach DiStanislao, 
"this team will be tall and have 
good perimeter shooters." 
Notre Dame, however, picked up some tips by watching the Coyotes play against Northwest · College oflowa last week. "We'll . have to play defensively," DiStanislao states. "We're going1 to try to force turn-overs and get 
at them from the inside." 
DiStanislao thinks that Notre 

Dame depth will diminish the 
South Dakota height advantage. 
She also counts on the home­
team status to make this game a 
win for the Irish. The Coyotes defeated Notre Dame last year by 15 points in their home court. 
In making the jump from Division III to Division I tomor­row, Notre Dame could easily stumble in its first game. Last year, the Irish lost to the Coyotes by 15 points. Coach DiStanislao insists that "this year's team is different" because they can now match South Dakota's experience and talent. 
The Irish will rest for about 10 days after meeting South Dakota, but will prepare themselves to faceButleronDec. 1 attheACC. 


.. 
::. 
-::.. 
r···­


When you ask good friends for a favor, you know what they're going to say. So you tell them you're moving again and then wait for the groans to stop. They may not lil<e the idea, but you know they're going to be there. When you're finished, these people are going to deserve something special. Tonight, let it be Li:iwenbrau. 



-··-----~-------~---­
The Observer Friday, November 21, 1980-page 14 
All SJ:X>rts week-end 
We asked for it

• • . leers 
appearances while Frank Krieber 

(continued from page 16) 
has appeared in two contests. team defensively and have Macinnes has indicated Krieber several good, quick forwards. Itis will be one ofthe two goalies, but going to be nice playing on home would not say who would be the ice again, but it certainly won't other netminder. be an easy task facing a team like The Huskies are between Tech. I stress our need for school sessions and will be on the continued improvement." road for the entire week following 
Center Rick Boehm leads the this series here. They will bus to Huskies in scoring with five goals East Lansing after this weekend and 14 assists for 19 points in for next week's series against eight games. Left wing Al Michigan State, and then fly back Mickalich follows with 14 points to Houghton. while Per Ake Johansson is next This series is the start of nine with 13. straight home games for the 
In goal, coach John Macinnes Irish. After this week's series has been going with three men. Michigan will be in town nex~ Rob PolmanTuin and Darcy week over Thanksgiving break 
Way have equal time with three for a two-game set. 
~ 
The Best in 
Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations 
Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00 P.M. 
Closed Sundays & Holidays 
""' · 

~ .. ~~"~~~!.~:::/,:~ "'" ,•o"'' 
1637 lincoln Way Wesl -South Bend, lnd.ana 46628 
Sl.OOOFF 
ANY CUT AND STYLE WITHND SMCID expires November 30, 19801 

1(..:--..-.......... 
80-DIDUY*~* U~!*. 
FRIDAY·•¥.21, 1:11 P.l 
~~DAN£A,£1J. 

......o..lu..-.....s.,.......-..
.........,............................ 
...Cir .... S... .........Il..... 
..............Or.' 0 'I... . 
.......................,h...... 
..,........,.........................
.............,....._ 


52554 US 31 North 
across· fr'om NORTH VILLAGE MALL 
Old English Atmosphere Excellent Steak, Prime Rib and Sea Food 
OPEN Mon-Thursday 11:30-10:00 p.m. Friday 11 :30-12:00 p.m. Saturday 5 p.m.-12 p.m. Sunday 4-9 p.m. 
Longest Happy Hour in Town 
11:30-7:00 p.m. Monday-Friday Live Entertainment 5 Nights a Week in the Lounge 
' ' ' Falcons 
Leading the bowl-bound Irish efforts will be the freshman Kiel, making his seventh straight start this season. Kiel turned in one of his best all-around performances of the year against the Crimson Tide, committing very few errors in that contest. 
"The best thing about our offensive effort against Alabama was the way we kept our poise," noted Devine. "We knew we were going against a great de­fense, but we used some mis­
direction  with  the  fu  
llbatks and  a few other th ings  
that  kept  them  awake.  We  

played a smart football game with a minimum ofmistakes, and that's what you need to beat a team like Alabama." 
Sophomore running back Phil Carter was back in the starting lineup after sitting out the last six weeks with a thigh bruise. The 5' 1 0" dynamo gained 84 yards on 31 carries, including a touch­down dive from the two. Carter and roommate Jim Stone have combined for 1 ,424 yards, 62 percent ofNotre Dame's rushing yardage total. 
,. 

The Irish aerial attack, show­ing little consistency this season, will get a stiff challenge from the Falcons experienced secondary. The military squad returns the entire unit from last year, headed by two-year starter Johnny Jackson, who rates among the WAC's best. 
Although Notre Dame owns an unblemished record (9-0) against the Air Force in a series dating back to 1964, Devine's personal mark isn't that perfect. His 1970 Missouri squaddropped a 37-14 decision to the Falcons, to give him an overall 7-1 slate. 
But no contest against the Air Force has ever loomed so largely for Devine. Saturday's game will not only mark his last at Notre Dame Stadium, bur will count as another important step in his team's quest to regain the top slot in the polls 
Once in the fall and oncli! in the spring, Notre Dame students are treated to an "all-sports" weekend ofsorts, one ofwhich we are presently in the midst of. This particular weekend started with last night's basketball victory over the Polish National team and continues with a hockey game tonight, a football game tomorrow, a women's basketball game tomorrow evening and a hockey game tomorrow night. 
Justlike having ESPN live in your own backyard. 
Of course, only the hardest line sports junkies will take in all five events, but as you plan ~ur weekend curriculum, let me offer this reminder: 
The students of this University have a moral obligati<;>n to whole-heartedly support the hockey and women's basketball team. 
Why? 

Because we asked for it. No, better yet, we begged for it, lobbied for it, demanded it and held up signs supporting it. 
Now, I have been warned by my editor that I 
•·· would not"h::tve much room to make my point so (surprise!) let me get right to it. Last year there was some question as to whether or not Notre Dame would support either of these sports. The people who pull the purse strings were convinced .that both were a foolish waste ofmoney and they called on some pretty convincing numbers to make their case. For a while it appeared that they would have their way; until, that is, those now famous signs found their way to the basketball arena and, 
Frank I.aGrotta 
consequently, the living 

Americans (thanks to the miracle of television) to make their fevered plea. 
SAVE HOCKEY and other minor sports 

Ah, the nobility of it all. Imagine all those 
martyred students dedicating themselves to the 
cause -even risking being seen on television, no 
less! They must have really cared, huh? 
Well? 
I guess the best way to put it is to say that right 
now the ball is in our court. We asked the 
administration to save hockey and other minor 
sports and, although reluctantly, they did just that. 
And you know they're just waiting to see the 
student body's reaction. 
Every man, woman and child that signed a 
petition, wrote letters to the editor or held up a 
sign supporting hockey and other minor sports 
has a moral obligation to be there tonight and 
tommorow to witness the fruits of their labor. 
After all, Notre Dame students are not 
hypocrites.... 
Are we? 
rooms of millions of 
(continued from page 16) 

against the Irish. Air Force, a 38­13 loser to Notre Dame last year, has been forced to insert many new faces into key positions. Hatfield had to replace four-year starting quarterback Dave . Ziebart, whosetjustaboutall the Academy records in total offense and passing. Senior ScottSchafer runs the Falcon attack this fall. Schafer, like Notre Dame's Blair Kie!, also handles the punting duties, averaging 41.2 yards per kick. The 6-foot-2, 213-pounder 
possesses a strong arm, and has a favorite target in wide receiver Andy Bark. The pair · has connected on 41 passes for 675 yards and four touchdowns, 100 yards more than the total for Notre Dame's top duo of Tony 
Hunter  and  Pete  ·  Holohan  
combined.  
"Schafer's a gritty  quarter­ 

back," commented Devine. "Air Force might be a young football team, but they have great quick­ness and they're capable of putting together an emotional effort such as Georgia Tech did." 

~~()f4tScJ:):,..:=i=e~===========================F=ri=da=y='=N=ov=e=m=bTe=r2=1=,=19=S=o~==p=a=ge=9t 
A oep rail v will be held for the Air Force football game tl: 7 p.m. tonigr;:t in Stepan Center. Moose Krause an~ Dan Devine will be the featured speakers at the rally, which lS based on the theme: STEP TWO TOWARDS #1. 
Notre Dame's hockev series with 
Michigan State, originally scheduled for Thurs<!ay-Friday, Dec. 11-12 attheACC, has beenchanged because ofan exam conflict for Michigan State. 
The two teams will now meet on separate dates: the first game will be played Wednesday, Dec. 3, while the second g~me will remain on Friday, Dec. 12. Faceoffboth nights at the ACC remains set for 7:30p.m. 
All ,:1,1Ss.dted aci!t rrust ht! recenttH1 by 4 45 p m rwo davs prro• •o thP 
•ssue '" wh•ch the ad •s run Th~& Observer offtce woll tJCceot ~tass••u!ds Monday through Fruiav l 0 00 a,.. ro 4 45 p rn All classtf•eds must be pre-patc1. Ptfher tn nerson or througt1 the mctll 
NANCY CRONIN-HAVE A GREAT Tomc.rrow at the Na.u: 
PIPPIN II coming!
DAY, BIRTHDAY GIRL. KEEP ON 9:00 The G",arcla-Marcetlo Band 
SHINING, AND WISH PAUL COULD BE Happy B-Day to Scoll M., Tom W., with Sobkowlki-Nolaro-Feenev· HERE, TOO. Rozzi.
and Tom H., LOVE, MARILYN You guys d-rvethe betH Thah why you have ua. 11:00 Rick and Dave Barr1on 
DONALD DILLON OH BOYI YOU'RE 
Welaveyan
LEGAL NOWI CONGRATUlATIONS MK. Ann I, Ann II, Ellen, Terl, and Laura
DAD. HOPE YOU ENJOY YOUR SWIM Whafl 5'3" and com81 from the TONIGHT. P.K. DATES with Sheila Callahan orMike middle oladoughnut? A Munchklnl Spend more lime at happy hours
McMahon In exchange lor 4 GAWELCOME TO N.D., MEGAN and 
A.Force llx. Also willing to paycash. and less a1 4 hr. movlea.
BRENDA JO.THAT SENSUOUS PAIR! Call AJ..7820, or Kalhy-8125. 
A6'4" MG WELCOME TO THE GROTHAUSGROUP­
On aale In library, dining hall and

Carrie, Thanks lor listening. and have a IHANX FER COMIN' T6T 
dorms SAVE !HIS AD II HAIR BRAIDING for Make someone'• heart warm
great ballhl tormala. parties, special occallona. SEND A CIIA X-MAS CAROl 
Schizophrenic 291·8215 K-Ray, 
GOOD AFTERNOON BOGGlE CHECK JR. Clall Happy Hour a1 MARIO'S Hope #20 doesn't Impair your OUT MUSIC, SEX. AND COOKIES FATAL ERROR ND113
Today 4-7 marklmanahlp. Have a happy onel Gua GrUI
Celebrating a birthday In South Happy 18th crazy VInnie "Eivta" Bend could have been 1e11 than (and .a lew Ananlnll) O'Brien Always atay the aame Love, 
exciting... But thana to a great your aecret admirer
to: the ~erox qu-n. HAPPY bunch of friends. II woa unlor­
lllRIHDAYl 22 on the 221 Have a Molly~ablel Tlah, thanks to you (6 
GOLDEN DA Y1 Luv ya Carol 6 Slalla How do I 1611 you that I'm In love Grandma) tor the cake -H really 
with you? For now, this Ia ll'le onlywas IUrprtllngl Shawn, you aChuck Camille Marie Dolan: 

way 1feel aafe doing II.

have perfect taste In gma. Marla, Welcome to Notre Dame. 
a secret admirer Chrla ahould target marketing agel 

AmNTION ALL NEWJERSEYIAN$-THE 
a Job deiiYertng singing birthday Jenny Why lfay atran~ I IIIII 
N.J. CLUB IS HAVING A TAlLGATERON 
tategrama. Quad 205. thanks tor don't know your loafname. Giveme 
SATURDAY MORNING BEFORE THE AIR 
your good wllhea. John, I'll lfart a call. Paul on Nine 
FORCE GAME. IT WILL BE ON GREENJagglng...ll you lfart listening to RELD BY !HE SOFTBALL FENCE OFF HEY FRESHMENIII Don't mila out on Zappal R-. thanks lor the mal~ N.D. AVENUE. LOOK FOR OUR SIGN the tun a1 the SMC/ND Fr81hmen gram -wa• that because you AND BRING YOUR N.J. LICENSE. tallga1er. Sot., Nov. 22, 10:30..1:30 at can't write yet? Mom, by AT6T alock. 
COME ON OUT AND PARTY WITH Greenfield. Food a drink wtll be 
Ron. the 26th Ia coming fall... 
YOUR FRIENDS FROM N.J. HOPE TO QVallable.
Thanks to everyone -like the 
SEE YOU THEREIII
Flghlln' Irish, you're all number onatl Mooae are elegant, but QuadrHekl Rachel BOB BURGER, are far more rare -practically an 
endongered speclell "lmle T." HAPPY BIRIHDAYIII Now SCHOlAR-ATHLETE 
lor 
Hey M.J. and the Gang, Dinner waalha1 you're 19, you don't have to be HEISMAN TROPHY great, but what about the d818rl 1 a "wannabe" any longer. Take the lfl to early to tell Sorry the room

WANTED: Information leading to the woa trashed. Underaland? I don't?
big step -BLOW CHOW. (Helpful whereabouts ofSleven G. Reynolds,hints: Vodka, Tequllla, Ch-Ing 
Ah-h...h...hahllllll Tobacco. Darvon, Cold Tableta. ... 
219 Pangborn Hall. Wanted lor questioning. Contact N.D. Securlfy
etc. ) F.OAD. "EXENF' Need ride to Harllord, Connecticut or Indiana Slate Pollee. 
tor Thanklglvtng. Would like to BOSTON CLUB XMAS BUS SIGNUP, leaw Tu81day; will ahare drivingFLOPSY­

MONDAY Nov 24, 7·9 In Lafortune. Hope you have a hoPJ)Ing laat 
and expenMI. Call Marybelh at Bring $50 NON REFUND. depaall. 
277-2038.

lew days of teen-hoOd.
Price approx $105 round trip. Dates Happy 20th birthday.
wtll be given then. Qu8111ona-Mike NEED MANY AIR FORCE STUDENTS 6 Love 
GA'S CALL GUNNER AT 4531 ....BIG The Beat of Badin' a Penlhouae 2836 
IIUCKSIII 

Q: Why haa Mlck Jagger neverbeen hunllng In the Yukdftt SUnrise (Straight-laced) I'll be wall­HEY MEN, WOULil YOU LIKE TO SPEND 
Ing loryou around e. You can aleep !HOSE LONG. COLD. LONELY WINTER on my lap. Nolorloua NIGHTS WITH TEN (10) SCANDLY sr. ED'S 
A:. A Rolling Slone gatheranoMoalal CLAD CO·EDS? IF SO, YOU MAY BE INTERHALL FOOTBALL CHAMPS. Long laland Club Bua lor Chrlatmaa 
THE INTERHALL BASKETIALL COACH 6-0-0 
break leaves Friday, Dec. 19. Sign 
THAT LEWIS HALL IS LOOKING FOR. ROLL HEADS ROLL 
up: LaFortune Lmte Theater, 
FOR DETAILS ON THIS FABULOUS,

Tu81day, Nov. 25, 9:30-11:00 p.m. 
ONCE IN A LIFETIME OFFER, CALL

Maika Lee (allecllonately known here a• Mother Gool8) and Ojclec Prolenlonal typing. Term paper1, ElLEN AT 4630 OR ClARE AT 6679 manuacrtpfl. thelia. Error free. $2
Aloyalua-All Big Brothera/Big Slater• who Watcome back to ND/SMCI Enjoy page. Barron Servtc81, 1404 Elwood. 
would like llcllela to 1118 Air Force ll'legame. 2B9-7949. game for their Little, should call 1 Love You, John Pinter a1321 ebefore Solurday
Turn In your sold baokoiMardlGraa Lll nckell may be picked up SOturday
ttx by Sunday II you want that T.V.I (your IIHieal goo1e) morning, November 22, before RENT-A-RIOT BE WARNED! 
11:15 AM In 109 Keenan. 

Dear Kelly • 1know you are Ill and 
You are encroaching upon bua­are prObably allll bummed about Trick or Brewera.
lnell acllvlllea r81erved to the Pack'slaal lou. Well cheer up· Ralpack. n. 1) A collection of 18X·
LUCKY PRODUCTIONS you are atlll number one(or at leaal ually deviant and morally bankrupt,
HANDYMAN UNLIMITED 
you bel on II) loalball playln' loota.
To avoid a legal Injunction or torte 
P.S. Something about holes, I think. .. Dear Ralpack. may call one
action you of the lollawtng to negotiate an oul·of· been dalng 'lhroomll? You can't court seHiement. CITY MUNDO ROONJEIIII....clclcl .... 
Who are you to judge who hal Radiant 8193-anything wHh your beady lillie Sexy Legl 8197
radenra ey81 anyway. 
5pecl.

Our people wtll get together with tra a goad thing you c'-edup,
EMILS WOBBLE BUT THEY DON'T FALL your people during or after 
ar 2011 would have lfarted throwing DOWNIIII Thanklglvlng break. beer1 back at a bed party. llullet
Who II "I"? "I" II Mark and Jim Bualomanle, BIU Burke, Jonet Deane, SENIORS, KEEP UP THE TRADITION Ill Joe ROdriguez, Kevin Quinlan. MEET AT THE CIRCLE AT 2:45 II Weird name, goad group. Tonight 
TERESA • Happy Birthday, you won­!HE IIUMSTER
a111:00 at the Naz.z. followed by "The dertully wild and wicked wenchl Try !HE IIUMSTER End" at 1 0:00. 
!HE IIUMSTER liTHE IIESDI 

lo slay awake lor the big night. 
Ski Club ofIndiana UnlverlllylnvHea Okay. I'll meet you later under the SMC, HC a ND to join club. Over Dolden Gomelor a llfflelguanalng. 1,000 na11onal a regional resort Love. Your Secret Admirer In 171. dllcounts. weekend frlpatoNorthern 
Ever dream of being a Flghlln' lrtah 
Michigan, wMkly club aiding Friday football player? A cheerleader? A HEY HOUSEMATEIInights, rental packag81, leasona. 
leprechaun? Well, your dream can How come you're -horne; IaMeetlng3 p.m. Friday, Nov.21 and4 
your namePAT? Wll you come home

come true In front of the Bookstorep.m. Monday, Nov. 24 In The Little tor a while Chrlltmall? 
on Friday belwMn 2 and 5:00, 01 ..
Theater, Roam 1C, LaFortune. For mare Info, call David a1 259-1378. 
Saturday between 10:00 and game­P.S. Pick up next..,.,...,.,groceriM Deadline to join II Nov. 28. an your way horne.
lime. Betherelll 

Buy 

) 
Observer 
Classifieds 

Friday, November 21, 1980-page 16
orts 
-----------------------,~--­

On gridiron 

ND meets Air Force Falcons 
By Kelly Sullivan for the Air Force game," relates record, breaking the 1976 mark Women's Sports Editor Head Coach Dan Devine. "It's of 21 consecutive periods with­difficult to expect our players to out allowing a touchdown. 
As Notre Dame prepares for come out with that kind of Currently in fifth place in total, its first home football game in a feeling two weeks in a row. Butas rushing, and scoring defense, month, the Sugar Bowl-bound long as we're still unbeaten and linebackerBob Crable continues Irish must be wondering which can see what we have to accom­to spark Notre Dame's denial Air Force team it will go up plish before we're through this squad. The junior tri-captain was 
against in its final home appear­season, I don't think we'll have a awesome in stopping Alabama's ance of the 1980 campaign. problem getting ready to play. potent wishbone attack, making 
Will it be the squad that It's great to come home after 11 tackles and receiving ABC­downed Navy 21-20, and stopped what this team has accomplished TV's Most Valuable Player Illinois star passer Dave Wilson on the road the last four weeks." award. His 119 tackles top the in a 20-20 tie? Or might the Irish The last four games have been Irish charts for the season, while contend with the Air Force crew particularly satisfying for the Scott Zettek's 13 tackles for that was blasted by Washington stingy Notre Dame defense, who losses of 78 yards lead that 50-7, and that gave up 47 points have not allowed an opponent to catagory. in their loss to Army? cross the goal line in 20 quarters. Second-year Coach Ken 
Either way, the Falcons will IfJoe Yonto's unit can still boast Hatfield will send a young and bring a 2-7-1 ledger to South that feat when they go into the inexperienced Falcon offense Bend after last week's 25-7 locker room Saturday at the half, (continued on page 14}triumph over Wyoming. The last then the Irish will set a new ofthe three service academies on the Irish schedule, Air Force is winding up its first season as a member of the Western Athletic 
Irish down Poles 
Conference. Notre Dame, meanwhile, will 
•
try to avert a possible letdown 
following its emotional clash 
tn 101-91 contest 
with Alabama that vaulted the Irish from seventh to second in By Beth Huffman and an assist. "He took up lots of the national rankings. Sports Editor space inside," Phelps added. 
"Our goal now is to sustain "With Tripucka, Jackson and 
some of that emotion this week Kelly Tripucka-28 points; Woolridge in-there we don't Tracy Jackson-21 points and expect him to be a big scorer." five steals; Orlando Woolridge The first half of the game read 
-18 points and 10 rebounds; much like a script one would John Paxson 15 points and eight 
prepare for a typical Notre Dame assists. Four Irish starters, four win. Paxson to Tripucka, two strong performances. But which points. Slam dunk by The Tree.
leers host Michigan Tech of the four was the key to Notre Jackson from the outside-swish. Dame's 101-91 win over the Despite Notre Dame's solid Polish National team last night in performance in the first period,
have not been playing up to our
The Irish have played only one

By Brian Beglane 
the Athletic and Convocation the Polish were better.
home game, a non-league con­full capabilities. Ourgoaltending
Sports Writer 
Center? Sparked by 6-8 forwardtest against Bowling Green, this has been outstanding, but we Ifyou asked head coach Digger Mieczyslaw Mlynarski with 14
have run into some difficulties
year. Notre Dame comes off a

TheNotre Dame hockey team Phelps perhaps he'd answer points and a mere 6-2 guard (the
string of seven consecutive road on offense, and especially onwill have to adjust its skate blades "none of the above." smallest Pole) Eugeniusz Kijewski contests and has weathered all its defense. Our goals against
tonight to a new type of sur­"Sluby and Varner gave us the with 12 points, the Polish club
travels with an overall record of average (3.62) is good, but our
face -home ice. lift we needed. They did a great led the Irish 48-4 3 at the half.
5-5 and a WCHA mark of 3-3 defensemen have not playedThe lost has finally found its job coming off the bench," said "They have an excellent(tied for sixth). The last two consistently well. We have a lotway home, and ten games-six Phelps, who is beginning his 1Oth shooting team," said Phelps of ­weekends, the Irish have split of work to do there."
of them Western Collegiate wth the Irish. the Poles, who shot at a .633 clip 
Hockey Association encounters with the then top two teams in Michigan Tech, the eighth "Sluby wasn't a sub tonight," from the field. "I was hoping tothe nation, Minnesota and place team in the WCHA with a-into the season, the Irish continued Phelps, "He went in work on our defensive rebound­
2-2 record (5-2-1 overall), split at
make tl:ieir home WCHA debut Wisconsin. 
and was right in the thick of ing tonight," he added with a this weekend against theHuskies "I felt if we could get through home last weekend against chuckle, "but there just weren't athings."
this stretch ofgames with a .500 Michigan. The Wolverines wonof Michigan Tech. Tonight's Phelps also credited Notre whole lot of them."
record, we would be okay," said the series opener, 5-4, while thefaceoff at the · Athletic and Dame's starting center, freshman The first half wasn't all rosesIrish Coach Lefty Smith. "Well, Huskies came back the secondConvocation Center Ice Arena is Joe Joe Kleine, as "knowing his for the Polish club. With justscheduled for 8 p.m., while we have done just thatand, along night for a 5-3 triumph. 
role." · 2:45 left before the lockerroomthe way, we have proven we can "Michigan Tech was rankedtomorrow night's contest is set "He did just what we expected," reprive, Mlynarski was disquali­skate with the best teams in the very high in preseason," saidfor 7:30 p:m. WSND-AM will Phelps said ofKleine, who logged fied from the game for a"flagrant
Smith. "They are a very sound
broadcast both games live around country. 
17 minutes on the court, turing
campus and plenty of tickets "While that certainly is (continued on page 13)
(continued on page 14) in three points, four rebounds
encouraging, we fully realize we

remain available for both nights. 
Grid Picks 1980 





Frank La(;rotta Craig Chval Brian Beglane Bill Marquard Gary GraJJey
Paul Mullaney Beth Huffman Michael Ortman Kelly Sullivan 

SporfJ Writer SportJ Wrrter SportJ Writer SportJ Writer 
Editor-in-Chief SportJ Editor AJJOc. Sp. Ed Women'J Sp. Edrtor SportJ Writer 91-31, .746
86-36, .697 84-38, .689 90-32 • .738 89-33 • .730
83-39•.680 91-31, .746 85-37•. 697 92-30, .754 

Cocks by 12 Cocks by 13 Cocks by 3 Clemson at South Carolina 
Cocks by 3 Tigers by 28
Cocks by 6 Cocks by 5 Cocks by 9 Cocks by 8 Dogs by 10 Dogs by 9 
Dogs by 15 Dogs by 17 Dogs by 30 Geor!(ia Tech at Georgia 
Dogs by 7 Dogs by 10 Dogs by 41 Dogs by 16 Dogs by 6 Dogs by 13 
Dogs by 14 Dogs by 13 Dogs by 14 .\lissiS'ippi vs. Mississippi State 
Dogs by 8 Dogs by 2 Dogs by 12 Dogs by 6 Crimson by 10 Dogs by 4 
Dogs by 7 Crimson by 3 Dogs by 7 Yale at Harvard 
Dogs by 4 Dogs by 6 Dogs by 9 Dogs by 4 Leopards by 6 Leopards by 7 Engineers by 13Leopards by 2 Engineers by 10Leop8fds by 5 Leopards by 2 Engineers by 3 Engineers by 9

Lehigh at Lafayette Uons by 6
Lions by 7 Panthers by 14 Lions by 3 Panthers by 10
Panthers by 3
Pittsburgh at Penn State Panthers by 2 Uons by 8 Uons by 1 Wildcats by 8 Wildcats by 7 Owls by 12 Owls by 6 Owls by 3 Wildcats by 1 Wildcats by 7 
Wildcats by 2 Owls by 5 Temple at Villanova Wolves by 3 Wolves by 2 Bucks by 5 Bucks by 10 Bucks by 1 Wolves by 1 Sucks by 3 Wolves by 3 Bucks by 5
Michigan at Ohio State 
Boilers by 2 Boilers by 1 0 Boilers by 12 Boilers by 7 Boilers by 17 
Boilers by 9 Boilers by 12 Homo by 7 Bears by 8 Horns by 6 Bears by 3 Bears by 8 
Indiana at Purdue Boilers by 7 Boilers by 1 0 
-T-exas at Baylor Horns by 3 Bears by 6 Horns by 1 Mustangs l•y 2 Razorbacks by 11 Mustangs by 6 Mustangs by 7 Mustangs by 3 Mustangs by 3 Mustangs by 10
Arkansas at Southern Methodist Mustangs by 4 Mustangs by 2 Huskers by 5 Huskers by 3 Huskers by 10
Huskers by 3 Huskers by 6 
Oklahoma at Nebraska Huskers by 2 Huskers by 7 Sooners by 1 Huskers by 4 
Cougars by 2 Cougars by 12 Cougars by 1 0 Cougars by 20 Cougars by 41 Brigham Young at Utah Cougars by 19 Cougars by 8 Cougars by 1 4 Cougars by 18 
Irish by 21 Irish by 23 Irish by 49 Air Force at Notre Dame Irish by 21 Irish by 20 Irish by 23 Irish by 19 
Irish by 17 Irish by 28 


