~ \ 
• • • Top Twenty -page 10 

VOL. XIV, NO. 68 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 1980 
Carter 
Fitzgerald stresses role 
•
revtews of youth in Ireland 
by Tom Koegel Fitzgerald is quick to point StaffReporter .Jut that the young are poten­tially the most potent political Dr. Garret Fitzgerald, in his force in Ireland. "Ypung 
draft plan 
WASHINGTON (AP) ­final presentation to the Notre people are strongly antivio­President Carter is considering Dame campus before his return lent," he said. "The IRA hasa proposal that he ask Congress . to his dunes as leader of the induced a horror of violence in to authorize a peacetime reg­Irish Opposition Party, the Fine young people. " istration of draft-age youths, Gael, emphasized the role of Fitzgerald said he sees theadministration sources said the young in the future of young as being apathetic be­yesterday. 
Ireland before a small Galvin cause of a widespread belief 
The sources said they were Auditorium crowd last night. that they cannot truly affect the uncertain who made the.. pro­In his discussion of Ireland by way the government or social posal but added that they -the year 2000, Fitzgerald cited institutions are run. He said believed it came from within three issues as being the major that the Catholic Church and the White House staff. forces which will shape the the government have not ade­
The sources, who asked not future of Ireland: the crisis in quately tapped the good to be identified, also said they Northern Ireland, which he aspects of the young in Ireland. were uncertain whether Carter discussed Monday night; One of our tasks for the 
would accept the proposal and Ireland's membershtp in the 1980s," he stated, "is to bring whether he would include such European Economic Commun­the young into the system and 
ity (EEC), with both its advan­make them realize that witha request to Con~ress in his 
St.ate of the Umon address tages and disadvantages; and their numbers, they can realize tonight. the extremely large number of their ideas for a more liberal, younger people in Ireland, who democratic and caring society.'' 
If he does so, Carter will be are just commg to a position of Fitzgerald said he has beenchansing his administration's great political power. particularly disappointed in the posiuon on the question of a Fitzgerald said he believes apathy of the young aboutpeacetime registration. 
that Ireland's unique demo­issues which they feel the older White House spokesmen de­graphic situation--in which a generations treat hypocritically. 
clined comment on the issue large majority of the people are He noted that during the debate last night. 
under 35--"could raise inter­over a bill concerning the Last summer Defense Secre­generational conflicts and nation's constitutional ban on tary Harold Brown told create economic, social and contraception, strong opposi­
Congress, "We don't propose Ireland must tion mounted by older,
·cultural strains. was 
to go to registration, let alone expand at a growth rate of more conservative Catholics,the draft, until we are convinc­but the young did n()t organize
·nearly ten percent to accom­
ed that other methods won't do any sort of reply. 
modate the growing work force, the job." · a rate which no Western Euro­Fitzgerald said he sees the 
In July, the White House Dr. Garret Fitzgerald addressed students yesterday on pean nation has ever been able task of the politicians in said, "The administration is Irish issues. See adjoining story. [photo by john Macor] to manage. " Ireland, especially those of the opposed to registration" and younger generation, as being to that "it is not necessary to 3trive to ''create anew a sense impose this burden on our of Irish identity of pluralism-­nation and its youth." the many aspects of Ireland

Museum tightens security 
combined: the Gaelic, tradi­Defense officials concerned tional Irish-Catholic; the Post­
with manpower problems said the Pentagon had sent no staff by Mary Fran Callahan opened museum. Aside from Museum staff has now become Gaelic; the Northern Irish 
paper.s to the White House StaffReporter polishing silver and shining more security conscious. Ulster Scots tradition, and the recommending registration. glass, preserving the various And with good reason. Now Anglo-Irish tradition. He said But senior military officers, Honeywell Security arrives artifacts had never been a that an office has been estab~ that he hoees this idea of 
next week to implement a lished inside Sacred Heart~­pluralism wtll appeal to the
particularly Army generals, problem. Yet last semester 
thorough security system in vandals bur~larized one of Church's museum, visitors may young "as a means of breaking [continued on page 5) · Sacred Heart Church's newly-Sacred Heart s Chapels. The observe University artifacts-­out of their strait-jacket of some precious, some simply . narrow tradition. ' ' beautiful--between the hours of Fitzgerald said he believes nine and five daily. Located in that Ireland's membership in the Church's sacristy, the the EEC has yielded many 
museum proves that Sorin, benefits to Ireland. He sees tt Dillon and Badin Halls and as a way in which Ireland finally virtually all University build­overcame economic, and there­
&Jviets banish Nobel winner 
MOSCOW (AP) -Nobel Peace Prize winner There was no official Soviet confirmation of fore political, dependence onings really do have namesakes. 
Andrei Sakharov, the nation's most outspoken the report on the 58-year-old Sakharov, the Great Britain. Fitzgerald re­dissident, was banished yesterday to internal brilliant nuclear physictst-turned-human rights ''The real value of the artifacts is sentimental,'' Marcia cognized that the EEC broughtexile in Gorky in an apparent effort to end his activist who is sometimes called the father of disadvantages as well, includ­LeMay, a museum staff mem­campaign for greater human liberty in the Soviet Russia's hydrogen bomb. He also is its ing a tremendous strain onber, commented. She furtherUnion. best-known internal critic. 
explained that most of the industry, but he feels thatA family member who reported the banish­The report on his exile to Gorky came at the membership will be in Ireland's artifacts are only silver orment vowed Sakharov would be heard from end of a day rife with rumors that Sakharov benefit. He also predicted that gold-plated. They could not beagam. would be expelled to the West, as was another the next two decades will tellThe noted physicist -considered a hero by the Soviet human right dissident and Nobel Prize easilY. resold since they would whether or not the EEC willKremlin for his work on the hydrogen bomb, winner, Alexander Solzhenitsyn. Solzhenitsyn be dtfficult to melt down. 
develop into a true Europeanthen an enemy when he joined the dissidents in was stripped of his citizenship and expelled in A large percentage of the confederation.
the 1960s · was accused of "subversive work" 1974, and now lives in Vermont. museum's collection has Earlier Fitzgerald lectured onagainst the state and stripped of all honors. In Washington, State Department spokesman European--in particular French "The History and Language ofHe was told by a Moscow prosecutor the move Hodding Carter said Sakharov's well-being was --roots. jenky explained that Ireland: 1750-1850," and Clrew. would prevent him from contacting Western of "grave concern" to the'United States. Sorin ha many connections in a large audience tonewsmen, according to a woman who lived with Ruth Grigorievna Bonner, Sakharov's mother­France and was remembered by O'Shaughnessy Hall that itthe Sakharov family in Moscow and said she was in-law, told Western reporters Sakharov was them when he left for America. 
twice had to be moved to roomsquoting Sakharov. picked up in mid-afternoon outside his Moscow Napoleon III is among the with larger seating capacities. 
Famtly members permitted to accompany apartment. He was reunited briefly with other donors of several gifts as is Fitzgerald discussed the dis­Sakharov and his wife Y elena Bonner to relatives in Moscow before flying out at nightfall Pope Paul VI. In addition to appearance of the Irish lang­Domodedovo airport in a police van said they with his wife, Mrs. Bonner said. European donors, Sorin acquir­uage--the Celtic or Gaelic--dur­saw the Sakharovs board a TU-134 aircraft and She quoted her son-in-law as saying he was ed a wealth of relics from local ing that time period. He traced the plane take off for Gorky, on the Volga River bein~ taken to Gorky, the birthplace of writer Indian tribes. 
the disappearance to English250 miles from Moscow. Maxtm Gorky and an industrial and transport Ancient vestments of spun settlements in Ireland and a
"He was only concerned about us in those last center of 1. 3 million people. Like several other silver and gold compose only a minutes. He had no 'last words' '.Jr the world­major Soviet cities, it is closed to foreigners. fraction of the museum's exten­gradual change from Celtic a5 
the only languase of a house­
but you'll hear from him again, I assure you," Internal exile there would cut many contacts stve clothing collection. Stu-
hold to the positton of a secondone relative, Liza Alexeyeva, told The Associat­
[continued on page 3) 1[continued o" page 5] 
language.
ed Press. 
....

,.----------~------------------------~--------------------------~~--------------------------------------------------­
• 
" 

, 

(AP) -Congress opened its new session yesterday with bills and speeches calling for a United States boycott of the Moscow Olympics because of the Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan. 
The broad support for a boycott came on the first day of a new congressional session and three days after President Carter threatened to call for a boycott if the troops are not withdrawn. 
Meanwhile, a United States boxin~ team prepared to Jeave W ashmgton for a three-city exhibition tour of the Soviet Union and a contingent of Russian track and field athletes was reported on its way to the United States to compete in five meets, beginning Saturday night at Portland, Ore. 
Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., said 
N.D. ranks third in fu1ancial aid 
The University of Notre Dame ranked third in the nation in the percenta~e of alumni contribuiting 1n 1977-78 according to figures comfiled by the Council for Financia Aid to Education (CF AE). 
Forty-one per cent of Notre Dame's alumni contributed, outranked by only Dartmouth (56 percent) and Princeton (44 percent). 
Notre Dame was sixth in total amou~t of alumni giving in the reporung period, $4. 5 million. The leaders were Harvard, $9.8 million; Stanford, $5.3 million; Yale, $5.2 million, and Cornell and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, $4.8 million. 
The University's average alumni gift of $214 was behind only Loyola (Chicago), $333; University of Santa Clara, $244, and MIT, $231. 
~The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Ann Monaghan Asst. Night Editor: Danny Tarullo, Mike Jans Copy Editor: Maribeth Moran News Editor: Mike Shields Sports Layout: Brian Beg lane, Michael Ortman 
1 Sports Copy Editor: Michael Olenik Typists: Cindy Jones, Carol Cornwall, Katie Bigane, Kathy Murray, John Smith EMT: Kim Convey Proofreader: John Chaussee ND Day Editor: Keith Melangaro Ad Design: Anne Fink Photographer: John Macor Guest Appearances: Mark Perry, Bob Bernoske 
Tile Oburwr [USPS 8 120] Is publislllcl Mlltldly tll,..gh Friday n­cept during eum nc1 VICdln ,...... The Observer Ia pullliallld bf 1111 students If Natn Dlmt _, Slillt Mary'a C....... Sullurlfi._ lillY • 
,..,.._. ,. sa ..., ,.., 1n ,., 
.....-)IBm The Observer, P.O.-. a ....... b.... t~~~~n~-.s-.~ ella .,._ jllid, Nllrl DIIM, I• 
dlalll ..... The Observer Ia 1 1111111111r II 1111 
Allldltld ,.., All ......... rtgllb ... .-.d. 

.. -,,-----------------.-------.,---:;--------....,...-:--..
• 
• •. -· • 
-
.. . .. 
I. o • 


··vtews 
bolster the Soviet force, es-ti­in the negotiations wi~h Wash­mated at 80,000 men, that has ington, he said, Pakistan is been helping Afghan govern­ment troops put down a rebel, 

:~dk~~~~~~~i~i~~~i~~~;c~n~~~ -M.·acr··~ 's It lian ~~ery

lion by anti-communist tribes­should be durable ana servt to 1 1\! men. strengthen i.ts security vis-a-vis : 
Irr another development, a ilie ilireru·deve~~ng on i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.s,~~~~~~~~~~~a 
Dr. Edward Facey spoke yesterday on the Hhertarian party and the nation. [photo by john Macor] 

Pakistan turns to U.S; for lllilitary aid 
(AP) · Pakistan, unable to rulers since the April 1978 obtain from China the kind ·of revolution have been members massive assistance it wants; of one faction or another of the · called Tuesday for "durable, country's Mancist party. credible" aid from the United Chinese Foreign Minister States to build up its armed Huang Hua, who met with forces in the face of the new Pakistani Officials earlier this Soviet presence in neighboring week, left Islamabad lesterday Afghanistan. for the southern city o Karachi. 
Official sources in Islamabad, He returns to China today. the Pakistani capital, said the Zia's foreign jolicy adviser, government of President Mo­Aga Shahi, tol reporters the hammed Zia ul-Haq needs sev­amount of future Chinese aid eral billion dollar in aid to had not even been discussed in modernize its defenses. Gen. talks with Huang. Zia last week dismissed as ''The Chinese ability to supply "peanuts" President Carter's arms to Pakistan is limited,'' offer of $200 million in military Shahi said. aid and $200 millioll-li.n-econom­Man)P<Qf 9-akis.tan' s warplanes ic aid. and tanks are obsolescent Chi­
The Carter aid package was nese-produced versions of Sovi­withdrawn from congressional et models, many from 1950s. consideration and U.S. and Shahi made clear that Pakistan Pakistani officials continue ne­was depending on the United gotiations. States to modernize its armed 
There were no new reports on forces. the war in Afghanistan, where American assistance "must be fresh Soviet combat troops were commensurate with the size of reported being airlifted in to the threat," he said. 
former commander ot the presi­western frontier." dential palace in Kabul, the Shahi also said, however, -that Afghan capital, said in a Kabul, , the Soviets had indicated a the Afghan capital, said in a readi'ness for dialogue with Kab1,1l Radio broadcast that Pakistan. He did not elaborate. 
Afghan revolutionary leader Nur Mohammed Taraki was strangled by three army men 
Fitzgerald
last Oct. 8 on the order of Hafizullah Amin and in his presence. . 
to speak
Amin had ousted T araki from 
. power just a few days earlier. It had been announced in October that Taraki died after a lengthy 


again. today
illness. · 
Amin himself was toppled in a .Dr. Fitzgerald will speak Soviet-backed coup Dec. 27 and again tonight at 7:30p.m. in the replaced by Tarbrak Karma!, Galvin Life Sciences Auditor­and it was announced Amin was ium on ''Ireland in the Year executed. All three Afghan 2000." 
Dr. Edward Facey, a profes&or of Economics at Hillsdale Col· lege in Michi~an, and a diem· her of the Ltbertarian Party, adressed a group of thirty people in the Hayes-Healy aud­ttonum last night. Facey, who received his BA from MIT and his doctorate from New York University, discussed the econ­omic and political beliefs of the growing Libertarian Party. Blaming politics for the "chaos' in the world, Facey stressed that man is an. "ordained and rational animal" who needs his 
Juniors announce schedule 
Junior Parent' Weekend will be held the weekend of Feb. 22-24. Notice and information on the event was sent to juniors' parents prior to the Thanksgiving break. If your parents are coming and have 
' received their packet they should retutn them, with the payment, no later than Friday, Jan. 25. Due to an incomplete 
·computer listing, the names of approximately 50-75 juniors were left off. If your parents have not received a packet or have lost one, it-may be picked up in the Student Activities Office, LaFortune this week. All replies must be returned to the Student Activities Office by Friday, Jan. 25, at noon. 
The Itinerary for the weekend is scheduled as follows: 
Friday, Feb. 22: Registra­tion--LaFortune 2-8 p.m.; Cock­tail Dance -9 p.m. 
Saturday, Feb. 23: Registra­tion -LaFortune 9-1 p.m.; College Workshops -10:30 a.m.; Junior Class Mass -6:30 p.m.; President's Dinner-ACC 8 p.m.; Receptions in Dormi­tories -10:30 p.m. 
Sunday, Feb.. 24: Closing Breakfast -ACC 9:30 a.m. · 
The opening evenf, the Cock­tail Dance will prove to be one of the main features -of the weekend. This will be held in Stepan Center and will be attended by parents, students, and guests. Extra tickets will be available for this occasion at the door. To ·obtain additional tickets prior to this event, contact Student Activities. 
' 

Celebrating it's 1st Anniversary and treats are on uso 

.(With any purchase) 




3 Keg"~-
Ot ~iK 003e3. 
A.wf&OOiey 
. 

FREE DELIVERY ON CAMPUSl Ph. 282-1010 
·. ~· . ~ 

freedom ~o pursue-his intrinsic
ood . . . 

~The-Libertarians. believe. in the individual's right to life, libe~ and property and in the aboh­tion of involuntary taxation. Facey said he feels that Ameri· can government is oppressing Americans ''more than King George ever did'' by creating beauracracies that interfere with the free operation of the American market economy. Further he thinks that the marketing system needs liberty to achieve production, thus, "all that ought to be done is to remove obstructions that im­pede its operations." 
In the area of foreign affairs and domestic issues, Facey cited examples of government beauracracy that take freedom from the individual. NATO, the CIA, and the FBI were present­ed as examples of beauracratic organizations that impinge on the liberties of individuals by their covert activities. Facey accused the CIA of being "a government unto itself.'' 

Castellino 
•


recetves grant 

Dr. Francis J. Castellino, Dean of the College of Science at the University ofNot.t;'e Dame has been awarded a grant of $600,000 from the National Institutes of Health to support over the next five [ears re­search of the roles o calcium, protein, lipids a.nd metal ion in bloo~ coagulation. 
Castellino, who noted that the grant was a renewal of support for research he has done previously in this area, said the study's ultimate signif­icance was in controlling those factors which lead to blood clotting, stroke and other bleed­ing complications. 

Observer needs typists. all Kim at 8122 or-'8661 
Today's special Whip Cream Cake by the slice 
Weekly specials· Free American coffee from 7:00 . 12:00-am • Capuccino half price 
520 E. LaSalle, 

. 

So. Bend 

.Facey's party, while urgiDaWe abolition of involuntary taxation, is attempting to limit governmental organization and unconstitutional activity by sup­porting such legislation as the 
"Liberty Ameni:lment." The amendment opposes public ventures in areas such as employment, agriculture, educ· ation, and defense. The Libert· arian party also supports the movement for a balanced feder­al budget, although it does not view this as the most effective means of preventing tax in­creases or taxation. 
• • . Soviets 
[continued from page 1] 

with foreigners for Saknarov, who has been a main source of information on the Soviet dissident movement. 
Normally, internal exile is as­signed to Soviet citizens for specific periods of time follow-' ing trial for violations of law. 
It is not immediatelnknown on what legal basis Sakharov might have been sent to Gorky, but family members said he was taken briefly: to a Moscow prosecutor's office after he was picked up. . · ­The official Soviet news agen­cy Tass did not mention Sak­harov's whereabouts. How­ever, it did announce he was being stripl'ed of a number of state medals, includi9g the titles Hero of Socialist Labor, laureate of the U.S.S.R. and a coveted Order of Lenin. ·It did not say he was expelled from the prestigious Soviet academy of Sciences. . 
"For a number of years, · Andrei Sakharov has carried out subversive work against the Soviet state,'' Tass said. 
The action was taken after Sakharov had been repeatedly warned against making "open calls to reactionary ctrcles of imperialist states to interfere in the U.S.S.R.'s internal af­fairs," it said. 

The Observer .Wednesday, January 23, 1980-page 4 




Republicans publish catalogue of broken Carter pledges · 
WASHINGTON (AP) The sured by the Consumer Price according to the Office of Republican Party yesterday re-Index, to a manageable level of Management and Budget will leased its latest catalogue on 4.8 percent for 1976," the result in a unemployment rate how well President Carter has Republican study said. of 6.9 percent for the calendar done in keeping his 1976 cam-"As a result of those actions • year 1980." paign promises. It is priced at taken and not taken by the -Stable interest rate: ''Bro­$9.35, up from $7.50 in 1977 Carter administration, prices ken. By Nov. 17, 1979, the "due to Mr. Carter's failure to increased by 6.8 percent in prime rate, which had been keep Promise No. 28." 1977, 9.0 percent in 1978 and rising steadily, hit a record high 
Promise 28 came from an about 13 percent in 1979," the of 15% percent." economic position pa~er that report said. -A comprehensive energy pro-Carter had put out m April White House deputy press gram: "Broken. Despite the 1976. It satd that if elected secretary Rex Granum declined majorities enjoyed at present by president, he would strive for comment on the report, saying, Mr. Carter's party in the Con­an inflation rate of 4 percent or "I haven't even seen it yet." gress, he has been unable to less by the end of his f1rst term. The Republican book, pass a comprehensive plan." 
''Achieving a 4 percent rate of ''Promises, Promises,'' said -Stable consumer prices with a inflation by the end of 1980 is that Carter made 667 promises fair profit for farmers: "Bra­viewed by almost all economists as a candidate, had broken 227 ken. Food prices to the as economically impossible," of them and kept 130. It said consumer rose nearly 13 per-the GOPbook says. the rest ''are either unkept, cent in 1979 while farm prices, 
"Indeed, the most sangutne unkeepable, or unverifiable." which dropped at record setting estimate made by the ad min-An unkept promise, according rates in 1977 have been on a istration projects an increase of to the GOP, is one on which roller coaster through much of 
8.3 percent for 1980," it added. Carter had done nothing to Mr. Carter's term." "When President Carter took fulfill the promise but hasn't -A bipartisan foreign policy: offince, inflation had been actually broken it by doing "Broken. Mr. Carter has brought from a then-decade something to the contrary. regularly failed to consult with high of 12.2 percent, as mea-"Promises, Promises," the even the majority in Congress 
third such book in a series on major foreign policy deci­published by the Republican sions, and has consulted even National Committee, said Car-less often with Republicans." 
Chrysler 
ter has failed to make good on -To be "a tough negotiator campaign pledges on the econ-with the Soviet Union": "Bro­• omy, unemrloyment, energy ken. Among other~. after and a host o other key issues. terming the presence clSoviet 

recetves 
Among those claimed broken troops in Cuba as unacceptable, is Carter's campaign goal of Mr. Caner accepted them. The reaching a balanced budget by Carter-negotiated SALT II
state aid the end of his first term. The treaty has been shelved in the The Faculty Senate met yesterday in the C. C.E. to discuss 
Republicans say even his new U.S. Senate." many pressing issues. [photo by john Macor] projection of a $15 billion deficit INDIANAPOLIS (AP -A for fiscal 1981 is ''unrealistic­measure allowing the state to ally low."
provide about $32 million in aid Other major promises citedto the financially ailing Chrysler and the GOP judgment include: • • • BoycottCorp. was approved yesterday -To bring unemployment to 4by the Indiana Senate Finance percent or less by the end of a over. the of supporters
Committee. first term: "Broken, The [continued from page 2] joined list 
The bill, 'sponsored by Sens. backing Carter. 
inflationary surge has set the In New York, 12 members of 
Martin K. Edwards, R-New at Lake Placid, N.Y. beginning Australian Minister Malcolm
stage for a recession, which the Jewish Defense League 
Fraser said in a letter to hisCastle. and James R. Butcher, Feb. 12. went to the offices of the U.S. 
R-Kokomo, would authorize the Chief Soviet trainer Sergei Olympic Committee demanding country's Olympic Federation. 
''The government takes a mostuse of money from the Public Grishchenko said the Soviet that the United States withdraw 
Deposit Insurance Fund to buy Hostage team would consist of Alpine from the Games. serious view of the Russian secured, five-year Chrysler and Nordic skiers, ice hockey invasion of Afghanistan and 
"We want the United States

financial notes. players, figure skaters, bob­regards it as a grave threat to 
out of Moscow,'' said a JDL
The measure cleared the sledders and luge and biathlon world peace and to all indepen­
spokeswoman, adding that theFinance Committee on a 12-1 writes specialists. dent nations.'' 
group wouldn't ''leave there
vote after Chrysler ofticials, "We are all very happy to go "It also believes that the 
(the OSOC offices) until we get great majority of Australianssuppliers and dealers and to Lake Placid," said Soviet 
representatives of the United home downhill champion Vladimir to speak to the leader.'' would want their ~overnment to Auto Workers testified that it Makeev, ''and we hope that by The OSOC office is only a complete opposition to the would help put the No. 3 Neers,O K LA .(AP)-' 'The time the time the Summer Games small branch. The main USOC actions of the Soviet govern­
ment,'' the letter continued. 

automaker back on the road to usually drags by slow. Every get under way in Moscow, the office is in Colorado Springs. profitability. J;Pe lone di~t­,..ninute seexw> like hours. whole crisis will have ..,hwwn In Australia.,, the government ''The.,gqve~rmep,~, sonsiders mg vote came from Sen. V. Treatment has been very good that one of the most telling 
Richard Miller, R-Plymouth. lately." An Indiana hostage in ·ways in which the opposition of The measure could reach the the American Embasssy in Australia and other indepen­Senate floor as early as this Tehran has written relatives dent nations to the Soviet


Carter emerges on top 
week. here. actions can be expressed, par­
The bill was opposed by Frederick Lee Kupke, · 33, a ticularly to the people of die Henry C. Ryder, attorney for State Department communica­USSR, IS by an effecuve boycott 
(AP) -Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, with nearly all pre­the Indiana Bankers Associa­tions worker from Francesville, Kennedy foresaw yesterday "a cincts counted. of the 1980 Olympic Games in tion. who said the plan was an Ind., signed the letter: "See 15-inning fight" against Pres­White House press secretary Moscow by the Olympic com­
improper use of the fund, which you soon, I hope, Rick the ident Carter for the 1980 ]ody Powell said Carter's mittees of those nations.'' is designed to insure the depos­Hostage.'' Democratic presidential nomin­triumph "certainly is a vindica­The Australian Olympic Fed­
eration has called an emer­
its of the state and local ''Currenrly I am in a small ation, but conceded he must tion'' of his partial grain 
gency session for today rogovernments against bank fail­room in the basement of the win contests in his native New embargo against the Soviet 
ures. Embassy, two England to keep his candidacy in for the discuss the government's view, 
with other Union retaliation 
The bill does not set any people," Kupke wrote in a while Fraser is to meet with
alive. Russian military intervention in specific amount of aid that letter dated Jan. 3 and received Smiling and joking with re­Afghanistan. · Carter Jan. 31 in Washington 
and later with British Prime
could be granted, but Chrysler here last week. "We were tied porters over his loss by a nearly Powell called it "the single
said need that Minister Margaret Thatcher in
officials have they up for our first 50 days or so, 2-1 margin to Carter in the Iowa issue was a 'subject of about $32 million from Indiana day and night, and I got used to precinct caususes, Kennedy definitely hot debate'' ~n Iowa. London.$ to help meet the requirements it afte,r, the first couple of said: "Well, we could have Thatcher told Parliament yes­of the federal aid package. Sen. weeks. done a little better." But he terday that she was prepared to John M. Mutz, R-Indianapolis, Kupke's parents in Indiana predicted he still would win his offer sites in Britain as alterna­
Manion
the committee vice chairman, received a letter last week party's nomination in New York tive venues to Moscow ddpite said the fund contains about dated Dec. 17. City this August. .. Killanin's insistence that 1 the · 
Games can't be moved. '

$66 million, of which about $50 "I would like to write everyone' The Massachusetts senator million is in short-term bank but I only have one piece of. had consistently cast himself as Eg;•pt and Fiji have alrya~y
to speak
certificates of deposit and could paper," Kupke wrote. the underdog in Iowa, and his said they would go along wtth 
be freed for Chrysler. whatever the United States
R ::ferring · to a letter he re­slide in the polls confirmed that decided about participation.
Under the bill, Chrysler ceived from the Rhoades family role. Kennedy spokesman Tom 

on Reagan 
Saudi Arabia says it will not be

would have to put up $2 worth Jan. 2, Kupke wrote: "Your Southwick attributed the sen­of property as security for every letter is the only news I have of ator's defeat to the nation's sending a team to Moscow, but $1 in aid provided by the state. the outside world, I read it a' preoccupation with the crises in State Senator Dan Manion the Saudis, while an IOC mem­
The federal aid package hundred times.'' Iran and Afghanistan. will speak to students regarding ber, have not fielded a team makes $1. 5 billion tn loan "I think he's in real good Carter, who never made a Ronald Reagan's candidacy for in the Olympics. guarantees contingent on the spirits," ) ames Rhoades said campaign appearance in Iowa President this Sunday night at . ~ra~ce yesterday accepted its automaker's being aboe to raise after reading Kupke's letter. because of the foreign crises, 7:30p.m., in the Little Theatre mv1tauon to send a team to 
Moscow and Denmark said it

$2 billion from other sources. "I can tell it's Rick's handwrit­thanked Iowans for their sup­of La Fortune. Any student Of that $2 billion, $250 million ing .. .I just know it's Rick and it port "in these difficult times" interested in working on the would boycott the games only if 
it would be the lone

sounds like he's really doing by giving him 59 percent of tht campus campaign is encourag­western 
(continued on page 6]1 ed to attend. nation there otherwise. 
well under the condi~io~~-.·:. __ _ vote-. over 31 percent for 
~ 
.......... . 

The Observer Wednesday, January 23, 1980-page 5 
Unstable political envlronment affects price of gold on world market 

The quiet ofthe library seems to offer better conditions for sleeping than does the confusion ofa dorm. [photo by john Macor] 

Boston Pops schedule appearance at Notre Dame 
by Annman·e Storz 
John Williams, the newly ap­pointed conductor of the Boston Pops will appear at the Notre Dame ACC Feb. 1 at 8 p.m. "It should be a very enjoyable program and many good seats are still available,'' Joseph Sassano, assistant director of the ACC said yesterday. The program includes selections from such recent films as 

Superman, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, and Star Wars, as well as symphonic arrange­ments including ''The Cowboys Overture" and "Concerto No. 3 in b minor fQr · Violin and Orchestra, Op. 61." 





,Carter
' ' 
[continued from page 1) 
have called peacetime registra­tion necessary to assure that there would be enough military manpower available to fill out regular forces in an emergency. 
These officers, noting that the Army, National Guard and Reserve are below strength and in large part are unprepared for early deployment, have said it could be fatal to U.S. security if the country lacked some effec­tive standby draft machinery in the event the Soviets launched an attack on Western Europe. 

Newsletter amends time 
Acorrection for the ) anuary staff newsletter concerning the Posadas should read that the parts starts at 3:00p.m. and not at 7 p.m. on Feb. 2, at St. Casimir Church. 

Williams was officially appoin­ted as nineteenth conductor of the Boston Pops Jan. 10, and the upcoming appearance fol­lows his first concert which took place in New York's Carnegie Hall just last night. 
The Boston Pops has been heard by a larger audience than any other orchestra in the world. It dates back to 188~ when Henry Lee Higginson, t.. founder of the Boston Sy ­phony Orchestra, wished to offer concerts of light, enter­taining tone. These 'popular' concerts soon came to be re­named 'Pops.' The Pops did not beco!ll8 re{:ognized as an international institution until the era of Arthur Fiedler, who conducted the Boston Pops from 1930 until his death last year. He established its popu­larity through recordings, radio television and Symphony Hall appearances as well as country­wide tours. 
Williams has composed scores for over fifty films including Goodbye, Mr. Chips, jaws, The Towering Inferno, and Fiddler on the Roof, as well as the above mentioned science fiction films. Williams has received two Emmy awards, three Os­cars, and thirteen Academy 
Award  nominations.  He  has  
just  finished  composing  and  
recording  the  score  for  the  

soon-to-be released sequel to 
Star Wars. 

Tickets for the Boston Pops concert are on sale at the ACC Box office from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily. Upcoming events at the ACC include the Ice Capades which opens Feb. 19, and Kenny Rogers, who will be appearing March 15. Tickets for the Ice Capades are current­ly on sale, and students may purchase tickets for half price for certain performances. Tick­ets for Keany Rogers will go on sale approximately Feb. 11. For more information about these events call 283-7354. 
by Laura Larimore Senior StaffReporter 

The escalating price of gold on the world market is primarily due to the political scene rather than economic factors, accord­ing to representatives of the departments of Economics and Finance at Notre Dame. 
Dr. Alan Garner, assistant professor of Finance, described 
... Museum 
[continued from page 1) 

dents  in  the  art  department  
have  also  sewn  vestments  
which  are  currently  worn  for  

Sunday masses. In addition to the religious artifacts, the museum also has a photo album which includes actual shots of Knute Rockne's funeral and )ocal newspaper clippings per­
mining to th~ tragedy. 

Crosses, crucifixes and candlesticks--dating centuries back--line shelves. The Museum also houses an exten­sive collection of ciboriums. Crosiers--the official term for archbishops' staffs--are so numerous that many have. been placed in storage. Once belongling to French cardinals as well as local archbishops, each staff has its story. One commemorates the dedication ofSacred Heart while another is valued for its use at the Church's consecration. 
Accompanying the museum's artifacts are typed cards which explain the ongin and signif­icance of each object. Fr. Daniel Jenky, rector of Sacred Heart, occasionally serves as tour guide through the museum. He supplements the cards with personal anecdotes. When he came to a case which housed one of Sorin's vest­ments, he told a story which would never be found on a museum placard. 
Last summer, when the Sacred Heart staff was routine­ly sorting through surplus laundry which periodically accumulates, someone found a garment with an ND laundry number on its back and the name Edward Sorin written on the inside collar. "It turned out to be a genuine surplice .(liturg­ical garment worn with vest­ment) that belonged to Fr. Sorin," J enky said. The sur­plice is now hanging inside one of the glass cases. 
From a large wooden case, J enky removed a set of Steuben crystal chalices. University Trustees gave the set to Fr. Hesburgh to commemorate his 25th anniversary. Though utilized every Sunday at mass, the chalices are controversial. J enky attributed mixed feelings about the chalices to their 
[continued on page 8] 
Day School 
tutors 

to meet 

"There will be an organization­al meeting for Sr. Marita's Primary Day School today at 
6:30 p.m. in the Little Theatre of LaFortune. All those inter­ested in tutoring this semester should attend. For further information call Tom at 3010. 
the recent gold market as a "barometer ofpeople's fears." Unlike recent years, when ris­ing gold prices indicated a rise in the rate of inflation, the present increase is not based on economic reasons, but rather to political anxiety, he said. 
Economists interviewed cited as the principal influence the unstable political state of the Middle East; Arab investors are unsure of the ten·ure of their governments. As a direct result, confidence in local cur­rency has experienced a mark­ed decline, and has led to an e.Ktensive investment in a safer commodity--gold. . 
This investment has affected the dollar surprisingly little, according to Garner. Typically, rising gold prices are accom­panied by a decrease in the value of the dollar. At present, however, the dollar appears stable. A possible reason for this discrepancy,· Garner stated, is irwestors' faith in the stability of the American polit­ical and economic system. 
Although not economic in origin, the price increase is having a small affect on the world economy. According to Dr. James). Rakowski, associ­ate professor of Economics, the large investment in gold diverts a certain amount of money away from other business inter­ests into an expansion of gold production. He stressed this effect as minimal, however, and pointed to the "very small" effect the gold market has on the average individual. 
Rakowski also noted that the actual net flow of money is not large; the same people buying are also selling," he said. 
Both Garner and Rakowski felt that in view of the circum­stances surrounding the present market trend, there can be no real basis for accurate predictions of future price be­havior. Garner stated gold was at present strictly a risk invest· ment, subject to fluctuations. Rakowski observed that a po­tential for a large decline in the price of gold existed, should the anxious political feeling be alleviated. 


The Observer Wednesday, January 23, 1980 -page 6 
the ruling -have been molder­
ing underground for some 2 1/2 
years, so Anspach does not
ago by the makers of Monopoly,
Court expect to salvage much. He
is the winner in the latest toss 
satd the dig was "symbolic,"of the judicial dice. 
adding that Parker Brothers
And Ralph Anspach vows the 
would be billed $75,000 for the
game will be back in production 

gives new life 
buried games. 
soon. 
Attorneys for Parker Brothers
"We'll be in New York with 
declined comment on the case.
Anti-Monopoly in time for the 
The 1977 trademark decision
Toy Fair in February,"· said


to Monopoly 
and subsequent injunction
the bearded, 53-year-old econo­
against production of Anti­mics professor. 
Monopoly was reversed last
To make sure Parker Brothers, 
trademark the makers of Monopoly, know month by the 9th U.S. Court of 
Appeals, which ordered the suit 
he is back, Anspach said he will 
back to federal court for a new
dig up 40,000 Anti-Monopoly
• ruling.
games from a dump near
SUlt Mankato, Minn., today. Gene­The appellate panel said the 
lower court had ignored a
ral Mills, owner of Parker 
doctrine of law that says the
Brothers, buried them after a 
trademark is lost and invalid if
federal court here decided the 
consumers use the term
game infringed on the 
~onopoly to de~ote primarily
Monopoly trademark. 
$2 a gallon foreseen by year end 
Wmter·gas prices increase third~time 
NEW YORK (AP) -The win-· along with improvements in increase for all of 1980, he said. 
ter's third wave o(1-to 5-cent-a­auto mileage, as probable rea­Among major oil companies 
~allon gasoline price increases sons for a recent decline in announcing increases, Exxon 
ts spreading through the oil gasoline consumption of 7 per­Corp., the nation's largest gas­
industry, with rism~ world cent to 10 percent from last oline marketer, said Monday it 
crude oil prices agam being year's levels. raised wholesale price for regu­
cited as the cause. Before the most recent round lar leaded gasoline to 81.6 cents 
Industry spokesmen widely of increases, the average U.S. a gallon, ulp 14 cents since 
credit the fuel-price increases, retail price of a gallon of mid-December. 
gasoline was $1.094, up from 
Standard Oil Co. of California 
about $1.05 in December and 
said Tuesday it is raising the 
up by about 60 percent over the · 
price of all grades of gasolineRotarians' past year, the industry publica­by four cents a gallon.
tion Lundberg Letter estimates. 
The latest round of price
The president of Shell Oil Co., 
increases was begun by third­
John F. Bookout, said last week 
ranked Shell Oil Co., which last award that it was possible retail week announced its second
gasoline prices would hit $2 a 
nickel-a-gallon boost of the
gallon by late 1980 or early 
month. Shell raised its price 31981. 
cents on Dec. 21. Sixth-ranked
But a spokesman for Standard 

fellowships 
Mobil Oil Corp. posted a 3-cent­
Oil Company of Indiana said 
a-gallon boost last week after
Tuesday that "We don't think 
ratsing prices by 3 cents 10 daysSeven University of Notre that's likely, barring some earlier.
Dame students, six from the major catastrophe.'' 
Mobil says its wholesale price College of Arts and Letters and The spokesman, Carl for gasoline in the New Yorkone from engineering, are Meyerdirk, said. Indiana Stan­City area now is 83.9 cents a
recipients of Rotary Foundation dard -the nation's second­Graduate Fellowships to study largest gasoline markt~ter more gallon for leaded regular fuel. 
Fifth-ranked Texaco Inc., which 
abroad for the upcoming year. commonly known by its Amoco Daniel P. Cahalan, a senior brand name -raised gasoline· raised gasoline prices by 3 
cents and gasohol prices by 2. 7government major from Mason rices by 4 cents a gallon late 
City, Iowa, spent his sopho­rast week. cents a gallon last weekend. · 
more year in the Universtty's But he said the company said regular g~soline is sold ai: 
lnnsbruck program and will believed gasoline '' E!ices wholesale here for 89.5 cents. 
study in Munich. should begto to level off' as The price does not include a 
Lynn Grzesiak, a fifth-year December and ) anuary crude­dealer's costs and profits or archite-c~r~ .student from oil price increases by Organiza­taxes. Sauqoit, N.Y., spent her sopho­tion of Petroleum Exporting Among others, Gulf Oil Corp., more year in the Rome program Countries m~mbers finish ranked fourth among gasbhne and will go to Valparaiso, chile. working their way through the marketers, boosted gasoline Renee Leuchten, a senior industry. prices by 3 cents a gallon last American Studies major from Rather than a $1-a-gallon weekend, while Sun Co. Inc. 
Lakes, N.J., will study in Dijon, · increase, Amoco sees closer to raised gasoline prices by a France. a 15-to 25-cent-a-gallon price penny Monday. 
'john W. McRand~l, a sen.ior American Studtes I Spamsh major from Pittsburgh, who spent his. sophomore year !n 
• • • Chrysler
Mexico wtll do graduate work 10 Barcelona, Spam. Daniel G. O'Connell, a senior (continued from page 4]A~erican Studies/Spanish 
is to come from states and am going to ask you to do farmajor from Pampano Beach, municipalities which have outweighs the bad,'' EdwardsFla., who also spen~ his s?fho­
Chrysler plants. said.
more year in Mextco wtl do 
Indiana, with 13 Chrysler
graduate work in Buenos Aires, Gerald Greenwald, Chrysler Argentina. plants and 15,000 employees, is vice president for finance, said 
second only to Michigan in the he was convinced that with the
Alicia J. Puente, a senior economics/French major from number of Chrysler employees. aid package and a new line of Tuscon, spem her sophomore Edwards said Chrysler had fuel-efficient front-wheel drive 
year in Angers, France, and $600 million in operating ex­cars in 1981, Chrysler would tntend.; to study in Liege, penses in Indiana in 1978, survive and the state would get Belgium. . . tncluding its payroll, and its money back. Dietu A. Schmttz, a semor bought $453 million worth of "I am sorry to be here today, American Studiec; /German supplies from Indiana busi­but I see no choice but to appeal 
major from St. Peter, Minn., nesses. to the state of Indiana for who c;pent his sophomore year He said if Chrysler folded, assistance," Greenwa.ld said. in Innsbruck, will study in the state would have to pay out Tom Morris Sr., president of Freiberg, Germany. $2 5 miliion in unemployment T.M. Morris Manufacturing 
The Rotary Foundation awards benefits, just $7 less than the Co. of Logansport, said his these fellowships to promote secured aid under his plan. electrical equipment company 
''understanding and friendly ''Everybody in this legisla­and many other small Chrysler ~lations between peoples of ture has indicated to date they suppliers might be driven out of different nations," and candi­have a basic philosophical busmess if the giant automaker dates must be both outstanding problem with what we are went bankrupt. students and potential "ambas­doing," Edwards said. "IfJou gene Beltz, owner of a Dodge sadors (\f goodwill," according weigh the good and the ba of 
(continued on page 7]

to a Rotary spokesman. the situation, the good of what I the product rather than the for the defendants. Anspach 
producer. could no longer use the Anti-
The appellate court said the Monopoly tag, the judge said, issue was whether Parker because that was an infringe­Brothers succeeded in efforts to ment of the Monopoly trade­keep the Monopoly name from mark. fallmg into the public domain. The reversal starts by agree­The final determination will be ing with Anspach that "the made by U.S. District Judge game of 'Monopoly' was first Spencer Williams, whose played from 1920 to 1932 on decision was reversed. various college campuses." 
In Monopoly, an immensely The record describes how popular board g~e that has Charles Darrow received a sold 80 million sets worldwide handmade board, rules and since 1935, the point is to equipment to play the game. corner the market on properties According to Anspach, Darrow by buying and selling real received the/arne from friends estate. Charles Tod and Ruth Raiford 
Anti-Monopoly parodies that in the early 1930s. game.•~ts player.s are. "trust-Darrow started producing busters who wm pomts by and selling commercial versions breaking up monopolies. of the game and applied for a Anspach credits his wife, Ruth, patent, which was issued in and two sons with helping him 1935. It was immediately invent the game in 1971. assigned to Parker Brothers. 
Anspach said he was no .more. A jubilant Anspach said that eager today to sell out to Parker in his opinion, the appellate Brothers than he was some four court all but ordered the lower years ago when, he said, they court to find him the ultimate offered him $500,000 for his winner in the trademark battle, brainchild. so he feels he is legally justified 
"Ethics and Jrinciple" are in resuming production in Anti-involved, he sai firmly. Monopoly. 
Anspach started marketing ·... ''There is no more injunc­Anti-Monopoly in December tion," said Anspach. "We're 1973. When General Mills! going to dig up the 40,000 began calkins about a lawsuit, Anti-Monopoly games buried · Anspach satd, he took the after the first decision.'' initiative and filed suit in San In an interview in his rambl­Francisco, charging Parker ing, game-filled home in the Brothers with monopolistic hills above the University of practices. California, Anspack said he 
After a trial in which the expected big things from his Anti-Monopoly forces accused game. He said that 419,000 the Monopoly people of having Anti-Monopoly sets were sold stolen a game mvented at least before production was ordered 20 years before, Williams found halted. 
Carter 's views on Olympics rest uneasy with Muscovites 
MOSCOW (AP) -President Games will be held in Moscow Carter's call for international in any case," she said. action to scuttle this summer's A Russian army colonel, also Moscow Olympics left Soviet shopping, at first refused to citizens baffied yesterday. comment, saying he was not 
"I think he must have been allowed to talk to foreigners. just in a fever when he made But then he said: this decision,'' said a factory "It is impcssible to connect the superintendent from the wes­Olympic Games with events tern Soviet city of Brest. which are now taking place in 
"I don't think he was thinking the world.'' when he was talking." · He said he had not heard 
The man, who refused to give about the Carter television ap­his name, was in Moscow on pearance earlier. business and was sho_pping at The first extensive official the "Podarki" Olymptc souve­reaction came in a Tass comen­nir shop on busy Gorky Street. tary late -Monday. The official 
"I don't see any relation news agency .accu~~d Carter of between Soviet troops in Af­holding athletes and sports ghanistan and the Olympics,'' "hostages -again despite I the said a woman shopper nearby. fact that of late Carter has 
In a television appearance repeate~Jy denounced the use Sunday, Carter said _that if of hostages for the attainment Soviet troops do not withdraw of political ends.'' from Afghanistan within a "Sports and politics are two month the summer Games different things, said Vadim should be moved from Moscow, Zagladin, a senior member of postponed or cancelled. If none the Communist Party Central of these steps is taken, he said, Committee, in a French televi­the United States should not sion interview that from Mos­send a team to the games. cow that was broadcast in Paris. 
The Soviet press carried no "Mr. Carter has found the immediate report of Caner's pretext to do what he already remarks but many Russians, had planned to do,'' he said. who ha~e been preparing for the Olympics for years, learned of the U.S. threat from Wes­tern radio broadcasts or from 



Big Brothers, 
theenglish-language Radio Moscow world service. "I would advise him (Carter) 

Big Sisters 
to think about our children," the man from Brest said, refer­ing to the growing chill in relations between the two nu­

to meet 
clear superpowers. Nelli Khromova, manager of AnyBig Brother/Big Sister the store, said Caner's move interested in becoming an offi­was "groundless."' 
cer f~r next year must attend"We are peace-loving coun­the meeting today in the semi­try. We have always been o~ · nar room on the sixth floor offnendly terms with the Amen­the library. The meetin~ willcan people. The statement of begin at 7:15p.m. and wtll beour government and that of . 
over before the basketballGeneral Secretary (Leonid I. 
~ames begin. For furtherBrezhnev) is correct. 
mformation call Tim Koch (pro­"We do not want war. And nounced Cook) at 232-7314.
besides, I think the Olympic 
. . '
._ 
----------------:uws 

The Observer Wednesday, January 23, 1980 -page 7 


Bush dials himself ·to ·upset in Iowa 
(AP) -While other candidates telephone, at coffee klatsches ­in the Iowa Republican cau-and lining up people whose cuses spent last-minute money words would be listened to. on television advertising, First, Bush set up a national George Bush spent it on tele-organization headed by his phone bills. The result was an long-time friend and tennis upset victory that thrust Bush partner, James A. Baker III, 
_ into the forefront of Republican who was also President Gerald Presidential contenders. Ford's 1976 campaign mana­
Bush's winning strategy was a ger. throwback to the pre-television Then he snared an ecumenical age. It depended on a chain lot. David Keene, a Reagan reaction that began over a year defector who once headed 
. ago when Bush started cam-Young Americans for Freedom, paigning in Iowa. Gradually he became political director. His built up a network of statewide two chiefpress aides were the opinion leaders that multiplied press secretaries of the Repub­into a network of county leaders lican and Democratic nanonal that culminated with organiza-committees. Rich Bond, his tions in all 99 counties. Iowa coordinator, is a 29-year-
Finally, in the last week, the old New Yorker of liberal bent ....--. 
\ "(~ .:
word went out by phone. who has worked for the GOP ­Bush's supporters knew where National Committee but speaks to go and when. While Howard highly of Democrats like Vice Baker and John Connally were •• .E.resident Walter Mondale. trying to catch up with televi-Going to Iowa before anyone sion advertising, George Bush else helped him to snare key
Carterto·present optimistic ecoriomic. 
knew where his supporters people there. were. And he got them out to George Wittgraf and Ralph vote. Brown, two young lawyers con-

view to Congress tonight 
With most of the precincts sidered comers in the Iowa reporting yesterday, Bush led party signed on because BushNEW YORK (AP) -After announced in his State of the can be reduced as the economy the GOP's straw vote 33 per-wooed them more assiduouslywatching the economy expand Union message, a preliminary weakens. And they see a tax cent, followed by Ronald Rea-than any other candidate. 
last year, contrary to expecta­to tonight's address to cut as too alluring to forego in gan with 27 percent. Meanwhile, into the fold c_ame
tions of his economic advisers, Congress. an election year. 
On Monday night, Bush told the two national committeePresident Carter is hoping his Therefore, he declared, Cox is among them. The his supporters: "I've been people, John MacDonald andluck might last a while more. ''Forecasts of impending Merrill Lynch forecast savoring the commentaries to· Mary Louise Smith, both oldIn doing so, however, he is recession might ... prove to be as "assumes a tax cut in the third night. They're all saying it was friends from Bush's days asconceding the administrations's wrong as previous ones." quarter and some automatic good organization. Well, what Republican national chairman. 
vision of the economic future is escalation 1n federal
They might, but Albert COK, the hell is wrong with good From them, the word trickled
blurred and that maybe hope, spending.''
a former presidential econom~c organization." down -to county leaders, torather than insight or perhaps adviser. who now heads Mernll Almost all .economists are Bush and his advisers had said local leaders, to just plain folkscontrol of events, is the beacon Lynch Economics Inc., a rela-· hedging their bets to some for a year they wanted to follow who would tell their neighbors
that guides it. .;,..
tive of the big brokerage firm, extent. Many of them foresee the example set by Jimmy about Bush. · ~ 
"In recent months the econ­has just raised the odds on a the possibility of stagflation, a Carter to elevate them above Bush also benefitted from the omy has displayed much more "major downturn" to 75 word which describes an econ­the 2 percent or 3 percent they fact that he comes across well in strength that earlier forecasts percent. omy that limps and stumbles were getting in the polls. That small groups, not so well to had predicted," the President but never falls for any length of meant spreading the word over large gatherings -and small ­
While, like Carter, that still. 
time. Iowa's back fences, over the groups are what Iowa is full of.
leaves Cox with hope that one mightn't occur, it is rare for economic forecasters to 
commit themselves so' strongly. Remember, survival dictates that they learn double-speak. 
..".Chrysler Nevatla residents tally to raise 

money for neighborhood brothel
[continued from page 6] 
Cox foresees "a steep dro_p" in economic activity beginnmg BEATIY, Nev. (AP) -When
dealership in Indianapolis, towed to the property. She xganizer of the benefit dance 
soon, if not already, and pet­Fran York's business burned scheduled for Saturday night. 
urged approval of the aid bill, extimated she will need about 
sisting into the third or July­down, it was only natural that
telling the committee, "If $100,000 to rebuild the brothel. "Fran's quite well thought of 
August-September quarter. It residents of this community do
Chrysler filed for bankruptcy, Fran's Star Ranch is one of by the majority of the people
would be followed by "modest" something to help. So they're
I'd be next in line." five brl'thels in Nye County, a here," he said, explaining why recovery later in the year. holding a dance to raise money >prawiit ·g rural area north of he and his wife, Helen, decided 
I•' l:)t;,

Ryder told the panel that . •U, •· n' ·
''Look for declines in consumer to help rebuild Fratl's Star LasVegas '!Jest known 'for the to orgamze the event. ­bankers do not oppose ·aiding spending and inventory liquida­Ranch, of Nevada's legal
one Nevada Test Stte, where the
Chrysler, they only oppose ~'Fran has always been ex­
tion to trigger production cur­brothels. 
nation's nuclear weapon~ ,are
using the insurance fund to do tremely gracious when it comes
tailments across most major "It's not only just because tested. _
it. Ryder said the insurance down to the support of local
industries," Cox and his assoc­. this is Fran," Bill Sullivan, Althou~h Nevada law prohi­
fund was a trust fund, and organizations, or anyone, in­
iates say in their ''Planning Beatty's justice of the peace bits prosttution in the counties
should not be used to aid a deed,'' he said. ''I tell you, the
Report" for business clients. and chief of the volunteer fire where Las Vegas and Reno are
privo::.te corporation. Use of the amount of money she donates
department, said yesterday. 
located, it leaves up to local ­
fund, he said, could constitute ''Business spending· on plant annually to different places
''It happens in this area quite a 
an unconstitutional breach of and equipment in real terms b... ordinance whether to permit it you'd never get that much from 
lt. in the other 15 counties. Nye
contract with the banks that would fall, housing starts would the tax structure. She donates
When a family is hit by 
county has no ordinance cover­
contributed. reach a second quarter low of a couple thousand dollars a
tragedy, he explained, "the ing prostitution, although coun­
1.1 million units, and corporate year.''
town gets together and does . '
Edwards disputed those ty officials are considering a 
arguments. "We are again profits would sag," if the something for the people. ''Usually on the Fourth of 
measure to require bordellos toscenario is played out.
facing the sacred cow of the That's one thing about a small be licensed. July, when the Fire Department 
puts on its annual celebration,
banks," he said. In his message, President community.'' 
The brothel was gutted by she buys a lot of raffle tickets,'' Carter stated that so long as "Everybody has been just
Before approving the bill, the fire on Nov. 20 and state Fire Sullivan said. "She's really
double-digit inflation continues unbelievable," said York. 
Finance Committee accepted a Marshal's investigators con­
and a recession doesn't appear, The night it rhappened they took been good to the fire depart­
Mutz amendment which put_ a cluded the blaze started in ment.''
his top priority would be on t~e girls downtown, got clothes 
Sept. 1, 1981, deadline on any faulty wiring in the old wood
''reductiOn of the deficit'' for them and places for them to Not everyone is happy with 
corporate aid which could be frame establishment a couple the benefit, Sullivan added. 
rather than a tax cut. stay."
provided from the insurance York, who managed the bro­miles north .of Beatty, a com­"You're going to hear profund. Mutz said the amend­Many economists place little munity of about 700 persons and con," he said. "I've heard
thel for eight years until she
ment virtually assures that only credence in such statements. near the California border. 
bought it just days before the so~e statements around that 
Chrysler will be aided and that Having seen huge budget fire, said she got back in Bill Perry, a federal Aviation this type of thing shouldn't be the fund will not be used again deficits persist throughout a business: la!>t Saturday, moving Administration employee who done. · I certainly appreciateand again to bail out private prolonged expansion, they her six girls into a three-bed­operates an ' FAA aircraft navi­their feelings, but not every­businesses. wonder why and how deficits room mobile home she had gation beacon at Beatty, is the body likes baseball. 

administration of either institution. 
Editorial. Board and Department Managers
The news is reported as accurately and ,; as objectively as possible.· Editorials Editor-in-chief ........ Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ...... .............Mark Perry represent the opinaon of a majority of .Ma11aging EJitor .... ~, ....Diane Wilson Features Editor.....Kathleen Connelly
&xQ Notre /)(lime, IN 46JJ6 ·~. the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editon'al Editor..............Ann Gales Photo Editor ..............Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Se11ior Copy Editor.........M. Onufrak 
T/Je Obur~~er is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor...... Mike Lewis Business Ma11ager........Steve Odland newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor .................... Mark Rust Production Manager .. ·AIM-!! ofthe University of Notre Dame du lac an~ . the free expression of varying Nttfl/s Btlitor .................Mike Shields Advertisitrg Manager .........Bob Rudy and Saint Mary's College. It does not op1mons on campus, through letters, is SMC News Editor ........Margie Brassil Controller................. .Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged: Circ11lation Manager......Greg Hedges 
~. ·~~····, '1. -, .... , •• t,,'t1 tt,,.T"t~ 
-.

• 0 ---~.------:!-------· --------~ ­
..,y., --··------· -. ----....--­
The Observer Wednesday, January 23, 1980 -page 8 



Astronomers uncover clue to creation of universe 
WASHINGTON (AP) -As­went off, according to the stronomers peering deep into theory. intergalactic space say they Drs. Wallace L.W. Sargent have detected some of the and Peter J. Young of the 
. original material left over from California Institute of Techno­the ''big bang'' that most logy, and Dr. Alec Boksenberg experts believe created the uni­and David Tytler of University verse. College, London, say the dif­
The National Science Founda­fuse clouds seem to be the arly tion, in announcins the dis~ov­stuff of she universe ery yesterday, satd Amen~an Other ·scientists have previ­and British astronomers thmk ously studied these clouds, but thin clouds of hydrogen de­thought they were matter tected billions of light years thrown out by quasars, which from Earth are pristine rem­are very distant, star-like ob­nants of the beginning. jects that emit the energy of 
The foundation, which funded millions of suns. the research, said the discovery The new interpretation is that could lead to new insights the clouds are independent intowhat happened after the bodies floating in the intergal­universe as we know it began. actic space between quas_ars 
Many scientists believe · the and the Earth, the SCientists universe came into being 10 to said. 20 billion years ago when a Sargent said in a telephone 
\

superdense primal atom ex­interview that scientists havew ploded in a "big bang." ~he indirect evidence of more than There isn't much that can keep a tired studentfrom his deserved sleep. [photo by John universe has been expandmg 300 primal clouds so far, but Macor] 
ever since the primeval fireball estimate there must be billions like them in the universe. 
The astronomer said the aver­age cloud appears to be about 1,000 light years in diameter
Fraternity 

sponsors 
and to contain the mass of 10 million stars the size of the sun. This is very little mass when WASHINGTON (AP) -Thous­men had be~un reporting an ermined that 19,000 Marines scattered over that distance, he ands ofex-Gis want the govern­increase in sttllbirths. were stationed near 
sprayedadded. ment to tell them whether they No one knew then that a by­areas within four weeks of A light year is the distance carry in their bodies one of the product of Agent Orange is dio­spraymg.dance light travels in a year at 186,326 world's deadliest chemicals, a xin, a substance one researcher 
Asked to speculate whether miles per second, about six grim residue of America's Viet­says is a million times more their exposure to Agent Orange The Notre Dame chapter of 
trillion miles. nam years. poisonous than PCBs, poly­threatens ltheir health, Haber
Alpha Phi Omega Service Fra­The scientists say the principal The men fear their health will chlorinated biphenyls, which hedged,
ternity, in conjunction with the reason they think the clouds are 
break down -or even that they the government has banned as "I can't really give you anyValparaiso University Chapter original material from the big may die -as a result of their carcmogens. hunch," he said. "I am, asof Alpha Phi Omega, are spon­bang is that they contain only exposure in Vietnam to the Agent Orange is a 50-50 mix­most people with my persective 
soring a Dance-A-Than to help hydrogen, and maybe helium, herbicide dubbed Agent Or­ture of two chemicals, 2 ,4-d and and tr~~ning are, very con­raise money for Muscular Dys­and no carbon. ange because it was packed in 2,4,5-T. Dioxin is created in the cerned.
trophy. The dance will take If carbon or other heavy 
bright orange drums. manufacture of 2,4,5-T, use of Haber notes a 1974 study byplace at Valparaiso on January elements were present, that Some already tell of rin~ing in which was banned last year by the National Academy of Scien­25-26 for 24 hours, and will 
would mean the clouds were their ears, losing thetr toe­the Enviornmental Protection ces and a 1978 Air Force studystan at 9 p.m. "polluted" by material formed nails or their sex drive and a Asency after it was linked to found no links between Agent
For any couple that is inter­
after the bang, they said. All mystifying variety of other ail­mtscarriages in Oregon. Orange exposure and sub­
-
ested, pledge packets can be elements heavier than hydro­ments. Government research­The official positton of the 
sequent illnesses.picked up at 136 Zahm Hall or gen, helium, deuterium or lithi­ers are looking for answers but Veterans Administration is that The Ranch Hand Vietnam
by calling Daniel Rauch at 8340. 
um were formed later by ther­say 'it may take years to find "no conclusive evidence" links Association, whose membersA special prize will be given to monuclear fusion in stars. them. Agent Orange with any disease. participated in the sprayingthe couple that collects the most "We don't know much about For nine years, Air Force Still, when a serviceman is ill, operatton -called "Operationpledges. 
the dynamics of the clouds, but planes sprayed more than 10 he is eligiBle for treatment in Ranch Hand" -says none hasThe Notre Dame Chapter will they must have properties that million gallons of Agent Orange VA hospitals. He need not problems linked to the de­also provide somf" transporta­enable them to survive-such as over Vietnam, trying to kill off show that his ailment is caused foliant.
tion for any couples that wish to their being so diffuse,'' Sargent by Agent Orange. 
thick jungle growth that con­The planned VA study was go. said. cealed communist forces. If, however, a connection ex­ordered by Congress and Presi­
Alpha Phi Omega is a national 
At one time, there must have Thousands of American serv­isted, the veteran would also be dent Carter. It will compare the service fraternity with over 300 
been many more of these icemen _went into sprayed eligible for disability payments. health of a large group ofchapters ac!OSS the nation light-element clouds, as well as areas. Some were drenched in The catch is that even if Vietnam veterans likely to have
including the Sigma Phi chapter btgger ones, he said. But the Agent Orange. research establishes that men been exposed with men who did her'e at Notre Dame. Member­
larger or . morh, COf!IJ?aC! ones The spra¥ing stopped in 1971, who were sprayed are in dan­no.t ser.ve. If the servicemenship is open i6 'a'll' 'Stud(%5 at 
probablv conaensed Into stars but not before Vietnamese wo-ger, no treatment exists to have a higher incidence ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's and galaxies over the years, he counter the effects of dioxin. disease, that will be taken as
(including women). 
added 






--RiVERCiTY 
RECORDS 
notthetn Indiana'a largest 
r•cotd and tape selection 
,.
and conc•tt tlck•t headquatte 


Jl.OO OFFII 
any album or tap• Expires February 4. 1980 
(limit 1 coupon per person) 


18,000 Glbuma Gnd tGp•• In atock 
ND/StnC atud.nt ch•cka Gcc•pt•d for up to J20.00 ov•r putchGt• Gmount Op•n 10 to 10, 7 dGyl G w••k 
Rivet City Recorda 50970 U.S. 31 Notth 3 mil•• north of cGmpua 277-4242 

..........!.................................. 


VA officials plan to study the evidence that Agent Orange men coming tn with the· mys­harmed them. tifying complaints, to see if one But the study will not starr 
common experience among before mid-) une. "I would them might be exposure to think we would have some 
Agent Orange. pretty good answers by the end [cpntinued from page 5] Dr. Paul A. L. Haber, the VA's of a couple of years,'' said assistant chief medical director, Haber. 
...Museum 
composition: chalices are tradi­heads a 12-member Advisory Meantime, Vietname veteranstionally metal--never crystal. Committee on Health-related 

are using the courts to force the Each chalice also bears the Effects of Herbicides, oversee­government to provide someUniversity seal. ing the study. It meets four quicker answers. 
"He looks like Ayatollah 

times a year. Agent Orange Victims Inter­Khomeini," one museum visi­In an interview, Haber made national filed a suit on behalf of 
tor exclaimed as she stared at a these points: 3,000 veterans, asking that five stained glass portrait of univer­

''The complaints that seem to chemical companies establish a sity founder Edward Sorin. be most commonly experienced $44 million fund to compensateAfter a few seconds of more are numbness and tingling of Agent Orange's alleged vic­thoughtful scrutiny, group the fingers," insomnia, head­tims. members nodded in agreement aches, change of personality, The companies, while not ad­that Sorin did indeed resemble loss of !ibid!, impotence, alle­mitting the substance was 
the Ayatollah as pictured on 

gations of malformed children harmful, have themselves filed last month's Time. and skin r:tshes," Haber said. suit, charging that if dioxin did The museum staff is ex­Only o~~ veteran has been cause injuries the fault lies with 
tremely knowledgable about all awarded disability payments the grwernment.
the artifacts and very eager to because of an illness linked to The companies accused the 

answer questions. Tours will Agent Ora_nge. The service­government of mtsusmg the be given if requested in ad­man, recetvmg a 10 percent chemical and failing to inform vance, but visitors may brouse disability award of $48.40 a servicement of potential danger at their leisure during museum month, suffers from chloracne, and to provide medical care for 
hours. 

a painful skin rash. those suffering as a result of 
The portraits, tarnished ''Chaotic'' service records exposure.candlesticks, photographs and make it impossible to know how The companies are Dow vestments of spun silver, all many of the 2.4 million men Chemical Co., Hercules Inc.,make ND's storybook history a who served in Vietnam were Diamond-Shamrock Corp.,
I little more concrete--and much exposed. In November, the Monsanto Co. and Thompson­less legendary. General Accounting Office det-Hayward Chemical Co. 
.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------,...r------­

..The Observer -Sports Wednesday, January 23, 1980-page 9 

1. Middle East affairs call for rise of 'Carter Doctrine' 
WASHINGTON (AP) -With their 'own defense and secur­transparent modesty, some of ity," the president said Mon­President Carter's closest advi­day, in a written state of the sers are suggesting it not be Union message. called the "Carter Doctrine." He said the United States is 
But, in this Madison Avenue pre_pared to "confront" any ag;~, the package of strategies, Soviet threat. One of his top mthtary postures and aid pro­advisers, underlining that clear grams being prepared at the warning, told White House White House will inevitably be reporters, ''When we say we called that -and compared to are prepared to use force to the Truman Doctrine. defend our interests in that part 
The goal is the same -to of the world, we mean it.'' dissuade the Soviets from ex­Times have changed since panding beyond their spheres 1947. of influence. This time the The Soviets have the bomb focus is the oil-rich Persian too, making the world a more Gulf. dangerous place. 
In his day, President Truman Britain has retreated from the wanted to discourage a Soviet region, leaving the West with­thrust into Greece, Turkey and out territorial footing to block Italy. He succeeded, for reas­Soviet expansion toward the ons that can never be certain. Iranian oil fields and gulf 
The signs ofbui!cting andchanging continue to infringe upon the solitude ofthe campus. 
The fact that the United States shipping lanes. . , 
[photo by john Macor]

still had a monopoly on the Reliable U.S. friends are few. atom bomb may have influ­Radicalism is on the rise among enced the Soviets to back off. the Arab countries, some of Or the caution that often guides whom switch back and forth Kremlin decisions may have between the East and West. 
Support for defense climbs
made the difference. The U.S. is taking a risk by 
In any event, with the doctrine se :1ding in American arms be­Truman established the policy cause with a change in leaders, NEW YORK (AP) -Faced with 8 perc.ent called for a decrease. By 1976, the Harris survey of "containment." It quickly the recipient state can shift American hostages in Iran and Another 8 percent of the 1,595 found 38 percent backing a became the dominant ingredi­abruptly into the Soviet camp. Soviet troops marching into adults interviewed nationwide decrease, 42 percent suppor­ent of U.S. foreign policy and And above all else, there is the afghanistan, public support for by telephone were not sure. ting no change and 28 percent was applied globally by suc­fact that Persian Gulf oil is the spending more on U.S. defense These findings show an accel­calling for an increase. ceeding administrations. lifeblood of Western econo­and the military has jumped eration of a trend that was first The stron& support for in­
Now Jimmy Carter, respond­mies. dramatically to the highest level discovered a month ago. creased milttary spending has ing to the Soviet intervention In shaping a modern contain­in a decade, the Associated In the AP-NBC News poll in· at least one clear objective for into Afghanistan and the politi­ment policy, Carter is boosting Press-NBC News Poll says. mid-December -after the Iran the public -military superiority cal season, is about to bring the Pentagon's budget and The objective of more defense crisis began but before the over the Soviet Umon. Truman's doctrine of 1947 up to military aid to Pakistan and spendin~ is to gain military Russian intetvention in Af&han­Two-thirds -67 percent -now date in a State of the Union E~ypt, shopping around for superionty over the Soviet istan -51 percent backed h1gher say the United states should be speech to Congress tonight. mtlitary bases in Oman, Kenya Union, the public says. defense spending; 31 percent militarily stronger than the 
''The Soviet Union has built a and Somalia, and speeding The flipside of the American called for no change; 9 percent Soviets. Twenty-nine percent war machine far beyond any development of a rapid deploy­opinion is fear, fear of war. supported a decrease and an­favor parity with the U.S.S.R. reasonable requirement for ment force. Two out of every five Ameri­other 9 percent were not sure. This tinding of support for 
cans think a war involving the As recently as September mperiority is 10 points higherUnited States is very likely in 1979, sentiment was split be­than the April 1979 AP-NBC the next three years -the tween increasing the defense News poll, when 57 percent

Purdue player suspended 
highest level of fear found by budget and keeping it at its favored superiority and 38 per­the AP-NBC News polls in the current level. In that AP-NBC cent backed parity. 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. academic record. Hansen past three years since the news poll, 38 percent favored In June 1978, the news poll(AP) -David A. Hill, a junior added the school h,ad been question was first asked. an increase; 36 percent, no found 52 percent supporteddefensive back, was suspended victimized. 
The strong support for a change; 16 percent, a decrease; superiority and 39 percent fa­from the Purdue footl team 
Hansen said erroneous aca­bigger military budget is a and 10 percent were not sure. vored panty.

because he lac~-· ' ·" -:quired demic records submitted to historic change in American In the December 1978 AP­But what has not changednumber of .. <Jemie hours, Purdue before Hill enrolled opinion. From the early 1970s NBC news -poll, public senti­s.nee mid-1978 is the publicscho,,l officials announced 
indicated he had received aca­and the Vietnam until ment on side no

war a was the of judgement of the relative mili­Tuesrlay. 
demic credits for courses Hill month ago, there has been a change in military spending. tary strengths of the two coun­But Purdue President Arthur 
said he had not attended. consistent sentiment for ..:utting Forty-seven percent wanted to tries.

G. Hansen said Hill, of Pase­The contents of these docu­defense spending. That senti­maintain current spending lev­In the June 1978 survey, 17dena, Calif., had no knowledge ments were apparently un­ment for cutting defense spend­els; 24 percent called for an percent said the United Statesof documents which falsified his 
known to Hill, as well as to any ing. That sentiment.,has now increase;--··22· · percent for a is stronger; ..n.percent said the , member of the Purdue admin­been decisively reversed. decrease; and 7 percent were U.S.S.R. is stronger; and 35 Sports Announcements istration, Hansen said. Sixty-three percent of those not sure. percent said the two countries questioned Thursday and Fri­In 1971 -as the Vietnam War military might are about equal. Hansen said Big Ten Com­day said they back inc:-easing raged -a Louis Harris poll Eleven percent were· not sure. 
The office of non-varsity missioner Wayne Duke and the U.S. defense budget. 
found 49 percent in favor of Behind the support for more
athletics has announced that National Collegiate Athletic Twenty-one percent advocated cutting military spending, 40 military spending is fear of 
today is the last day to sign up Association representatives keeping defense spending at its percent in favor of the status war.
for several activities scheduled were informed of Hill's ineligib­current level and only 8 percent quo and 11 percent in favor of Thirty-nine percent of the 
for this winter. ility. called for a decrease. .\nother an increase. public said a war involving the 
Teams can still sign up for 
United States is "very likely"men's and women's volleyball, in the next three years. That is and there are still openings for the highest level of fear since m'en's, women's and co-ree , 

Money 

the question was first asked in
' 

doubles in raquetball and ' 
1977.

doubles in handball. Students Forty-two percent said war is 
should stop by the non-varsity [continued from page 12] The other teams with fencers receive other types of somewhat likely and 16 percent ·i ioffice (C-2 in the ACC) to sign 
scholarships -track, baseball, said it was not likely. Three
aid. ·i 
up for any of these activities. · longer feels that it is committed tennis, wrestling, ·and golf--will One varsity coach said, ''The percent were not sure. 
Students are also reminded 
to strive for excellence, within suffer too. ' How can they administration has decided that As recently as April 1979, only 
must out
that they fill an reason of course, in everything possibly be competitive against if a sport isn't a money-maker, 7 percent said war is very likely. 
insurance form before they can 
it undertakes, and· athletics are reasonalble, Division J competi­it isn't worthwhile. The Twenty-two percent saiq war is participate in a non-varsity an integral part ofany college.'' tion witha roster full of almighty dollar is the bottom somewhat likely and 68 percemsport. So the scholarships cannot be walk-ons? line." said war was not likely. The 
offered until further notice, and Another coach added, remainder were not sure. ,, 
As with every sample survey, ' ;·
The rugby team will hold an Stephens admitted, "I don't 'The almighty dollar ''When · collegiate sports be­
like it, but I don't see much comes 'BigBusiness,' I don't the results of the AP-NBC newsimportant organizational meet­hope for them being restored, poll can vary from the opinions
ing Thursday at 7:30 P.M. on is the bottom line. ' mean profitable but when of all those with telephonesthe second floor of LaFortune. either.'' money becomes the sole dicta­
Anyone interested in playing What happened was like a "But what about the fencing tor, then it's time form me to across the country because of 
this semester is encouraged to nuclear accident. The effects team,·' comes the response. get out." chance variations in the sam­
come. Those interested in aren't seen now, but look two, Without a single athletic Whatever happened to the ple. making the trip to Florida three, four years down the scholarship, the Irish fencers good old ''Thrill of victory, the For polls with 1,595 interviews 
during spring break_ shoul_d road. An all-volunteer hockey have risen to national promin­agony of· defeat, the human the results should vary rio more 
bring thetr $50 ?epost_t to th_is team will be about as effective ence and are riding a 106-match drama of athletic competttton, than three percentage points meeting. Practice wtll begm as an all-volunteer army. Sure, winning streak. But the nation, the striving for excellence and either way simply because of Monday at 4:15 on the A.C.C. the guys can dress up like big team has, by far, the finest all that?" sample error. That is, if one Concourse. Everyone should time athletes and go through coach in the nation, as was I'm afraid ·that if you don't coula talk i:o all adults in the 
be prepared to practice outside, the motions, but they can forget pointed out two weeks ago in make money, you're not allow­country with telephones from 
about launching any serious the findings of this poll by more
weather permitting, and bring Sports Illustrated and outstand­ed to strive for excellence, but than three percentage points. 
$1. drive into the national picture. ing facilities. Also, a number of settle for simple mediocrity. 


-' 
·~=; ;_~ -'J~~'f.a; (.(ij::~· :~y rU; t;-.ti~-s:~~~t'-'·:~~~.1() :r~~-.·d-~-­
--Vf!cinut·t«&...s-la Henson. a P«rneU·y:fn-_lhor-a foUJ.JisKo-·--~aAdaict-.r·•Qaa yPU'.IWII~..-tllt!ii :.:-~t left-bander: apparently. will jumper with five seconds re.-shor?'~ • .-· (c;. ·· etch :his name _into the basket· maining. The shot missed and·-· Henson's full-court shot, ~ ball record books wich .an ., bounced off the rim. Here's which drOpped clanly throuah

drops in 
amazing, last-second shot that· how Henson remem·bered it: the net just before the buzzer,

.. 
Florida 
he heaved with his ri~ht hand. "At first I thought it was was at first estimated as cover­With visiting Virgmia Tech ~oing to hit the lights, but it ing 93 of Tully Gym's 94 feet. and Florida State tied 77·77 in a JUSt kept going and going. However, Florida State officials 
Metro Conterence game •When it went through, I turned remeasured after the NCAA 

Doonesbury by Garry Trudeau Poulin recieves 
5Ef.J, 17V~ KENN&PY, W 


IAELJ_, IN lH/9 MC»fl3NTa= 
YOU AGREe WITH YO{!~ 
NATlONAl-CI?JSIS, ANY 
ff, ~ow CAN[Jtl¥fT135 7HAT 
SECaVIJ-Gf/!55!N6 7HATI .. 

~~Pff!H lH&.. llif.. 
li1CHAW3N6W SOV/fl THREAT, TH& .. ER.. 6RA,JV 

NOtu, IN 
AVG/<8,
/?&5P£C,T 
'XNA70!<,
TO TH& .. 


Molarity by Michael Molinelli 


I'M 4 13/0 M.A.JbR WITH PLANs TV 60 GRADUA-rt" SC/'kX)I_ .-­


ACROSS 25 Meet boldly 1 Notwith­29 Military 
standing decoration 6 Cat cries 33 Monasteries 
10 Army deco­34 Feels ration, remorse with 14 A 35 Unfold, and 21 A to poets 
14 Soldier's 36 Obligation award, 37 Bearing with 49A 38 Insects 
15 One's own: 39 Adjective 
comb. form suffix 16 Scarce 40 Exaggerated 17 Bouquet 42 Triplets 18 Pell--44 Decoration 19 Lined up for wounded 20 Membrane heroes 21 See 10 A 47 Classify 
2~-~P5\YS a 48 Search call on· thoroughly 



The Daily Crossword 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
~iiiiiiililil~:... ~.:-.::~~~.:.1 
· • 1980 by Chicago Tnbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 1/23/80 All Flights Reserved · 

1123/BO 

~~-------------------------------------------~--------­
1
RIVER CllY RECORDS PRESENTS: COLLECTOR'S SHOW AN,Q SALE 
REPORTER'S MEETING
U.S. 31 North store only 

1 thousands and thousands of cut-outs. 
i oldies, budget lp's, special imports Ohd · hard-to-find albums 
J:>uster sale-a few of'the huge 4X4 posters 

will be sold to start the semester off 
.. 1n style Steve Dahl's IIAvatollah" 45 is avaUQble ~isten to the River CllY ads. on wlup-fm this 



THURSDAY at 7:00 

weekend. and yjsif our booth at the Loop­
in the ft. MARY'S OBSEBVEI. OFFICE

Fest: Feb.. :l&3 at the Amphitheater in 
s16~~2'1Y.s~~1W~~ 277-4242 chicago 
KBW B.EPOBTIBS ARB WELCOMEIIII 

3 Mil North of 
49 See 14 A 24 Culbertson 52 Shakespeare 26 Sorry one villain 27 Group of 56 Along in seven 
years 28 Lock of 59 Single hair 60 Courage 29 African 61 Beauty fetishes 62 Trick 30 White 63 Lifeless poplars 64 Arched roof 31 Fancy 65 Planes trimming 66 Curves 32 Mongrel 
33 Bryant or DOWN Loos 1 One of a 37 Peak 
Latin trio 38 Kuwaitis 2 Dried up 40 Horse­3 Image of racing 
a god track 
4 Having a ·••f1 Fiedler and woven Miller· pattern 42 Norse god. 
5 High note 43 -and haw 6 Herb of the 45 Pet dog 
pea famiy 46 Place for 7 Garden eleves 8 Out of 50 Burden 
control 51 Political 
9 That can cartoonist be melted 53 Beverages 10 Rubs the 54 Triangular 
wrong way insert 11 Padrlle 55 Scraps 12 Gold: Sp. 56 Increase 13 Morning 57 Sticky 
moisture stuff 21 Letters 58 Shade tree • 22 Shank 60 Contend 
WCHAhonor 
MINNEAPOLIS -Dave Poulin of Notre Dame, a sophomore from Mississauga, Ontario, has been named Player of the Week in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association. 
Poulin totaled four goals and three assists last weekend in Notre Dame's sweep over Colo­rado College. Included in that total was a hat trick during the second period in Saturday's 5-3 victory. 
The Irish post an 8-8 WCHA record and are tied for sixth place. They attempt to improve on that this weekend at Michi­gan Tech. 
• • .NBA 
[continued from page 12} 
g1ven him that eight point scoring average ( including one game in which he scored 22 points.) 
Both men have been following Notre Dame basketball, but\ have very different opinions on how the Irish are doing. 
"They are doing pretty good," says Williams. "I think Rich (Branning) and Bill (Hanzlik) are doing a real good job.'' Meanwhile, A.D. says, "Yeah, I heard that they're not doing too good. I'm looking forward to · seeing them play UCLA and Maryland on TV." • 
In the summer of 1976, Adrian Dantley led the United States Olympic Basketball team to a-~ gold medal in MontreaL He has mixed emotions about the present uproar over the pos­sible boycott of this summer's Moscow games. 
"Of course 1' d like to see the Olympics go on, but also, you have to thmk about security. That's the thing that I'm wor­ried about. If the security is good, I-think the Olympics should-go on, thtrt' s what important. I don't think politics should come into it. And it should only be a matter of security for our athletes going over to Moscow. '' 

The Utah Jazz are one of the youngest teams in the NBA. They'vehad 27 different players on their ruster, and have the second worst record in the league. · BU[ there are two basketball players from Notre 
Dame who arc happy ro be ' 
there just the '-;tme. . 1 
.. · BaskeitJaii · 
~ ' ,• I ' ' -! ~~ 
The Top Twenty teams In The Associated • Press college basketball poll, with first-place votes in pilrentheses 
1. DePaui 157) -15-0 1.140 
2. Oregon St. 17-1 .1.049 
3. Duke 15-2 959 
4. Ohio St. 12-2 929 
5. Kentucky 15·3 835 
6. Syncuse 15-1 821 
7. Lo~isviile 13-2 783 1 
8. Notre Dame 11-2 773 
9. St. John's, N.Y. 14-1 736 10. Missouri 14-2 494 11. Louisiana St. 11·4 455 12. Clemson 12·3 386 13. N. Carolina 10-4 372 14. Purdue 11-4 356 15. Maryland 13·2 335 16. Indiana 11-4 287 17. Virginia 14-3 266 18. Weber St. 17-1 134 "19. Tennessee . 12-4 131 20. Brigham Young 13-4 102 

...._-.-.~·---...--~
_· .....-:: = -::-~ --~ -----_.. _---.:---.-':" 
.. ­
-


-.~.:. ·.:o: • ,..,. -~ ...4...-~-, -~-..... ~~-:...-\·...:·•·._.~. .-~. w~~?'!t'~_:---.1f!tri: >.--~~:~ ~-~~-~ .....,....-... ~ "-...-"'"~-. :,Wrf-.,...~, ..... ~.-~'"',p ..,..-if·~ ·.-.::~-~.:...-,_.:,.. ~-~r--·--""~~-· -'"~!---~~........,...-•.J.......:;-b·-··; .., ~---­
-: • ~'II ~ 
• • •. 4' .·-..~ .~ _., ·-; ·: _, tl ;• ' . . t• .. , ..~t~---'• .• ~-"':~~••~ ...~· ..-~ ..~ ~ :-:--;. 

Freshmari·Var:ne:r aOxiQpsly .aWaits 'hi~ ~tutti'· 
• .J '1. • ' I' 
The Observec would like to ' "I. jo~~ wa~ri't ·~sc;~: to n~t apologiz'l:,or ~>.rnduction errors-play10g, he admtt~ after a 
. , r· v • ~ · h . · · .
zn yesteT"< y s column on Notre. typ,tca1 two-our practtce
Dame basketball pla•1er Bill 
J

Varner. The corrected version ofthe story is printed below. 
by Frank LaGrotta 
It's as much a part of the game as cheerleaders, officials and the National Anthem. The older guys do the playing while the younger guys, for the _m?st part, sit on the bench, btdtng their time, smiling for report­ers, family and friends and happily sneaking in some play­ing time whenever and where­ever it comes. "Waiting your turn'' is what coaches like to call it. 
Billy Varner calls it "learn­ing." . 
A 6-6 freshman on Dtgger Phelps' squad, Varner has accumulated only 79 minutes of action thus far this season; a statistic that bothered him at first--as one might expect. 
session. "Wheri we played
V'lla d I d'd ' . h
1 nova an .1 n t get 10 t e gam~, that was the first time ~? my ltf~ th~t happened ~o me. 
Whtch ts easy to belteve 
\when you look at his c~eden­tials. An all-state selectton by both the Associated Press and UPI, the New Kensington, PA native averaged 27 points, 15 rebounds and five assists a game as a senior at Valley High School. He was named the most valuable player at such prestigious tournaments as the Colt Classic, the Pennsylvania Big 11 Classic and the Dapper Dan Classic which is where he first came to the attention of the Notre Dame coaching staff. 1 'When we saw what Billy could do on . the basketball court, we knew we wanted him at Notre Dame," points out assistant coach, Scott Thompson. ''Everything about his game impressed us--his shootmg, ball-handling skills 

Classifieds 
and his uncanny, knack of ~ be~ng around the basketball, e1sectal­
I h a · b ., ,
yon t e onenstve oar s. 
So Varnet came. to' Notre
afi . d .f£
Dame ter turmng own o ers from sue~ schools as M~rque~te, Pttt and Penn State Umverstty to name but a few. 
''I just l!~ed everything about the place, Varner remembers. "And I'm satisfied with my choice. I know it's the right place for me. 
"And I'm not gonna trans­fer.'' 
On that one you can almost hear Digger breathe a sigh of relief. 
"Hey, Billy Varner is a super basketball player and whether it looks like it right now or not, he is making a valuable contri­bution to our team,'' empha­sizes Digger. "You have to remember that he is a fresh­man. When Toby Knight was a freshman he played 81 minutes the entire season Jet he matur· ed into a very goo player for us and I don't have to tell you what he's doing with the Knicks. We 
• ' • 
expect Billy co play ·mo~e. qf a 
h . 
ro1e as e gets more expenence
d h d II k h' ani t. enh gi~a ua Y ta e ts 
p ace 10 t e 10e-un
• a-· 
But I'll tell you this right now: Billy Varner is gonna help our basketball team before this season is over.'' 
''I know I need more work on defense," admits Varner who smiles when it's suggested taht defense is only something that high school phenoms play to occupy their time between • baskets. 
''In high school my defense was good enough for high school but here we use a variety of defenses and it takes time to learn them all." 
But, ."Varner bouyed with his new-found patience, Varner continues to wait and watch and work like hell in practice. 
"Because I'm learning," he repeats. "And I kn~w my time will come." 

BOSTON (AP) -: . Pete · ' Maravich, a superStar·. re­leased recently by the Utah ] azz during his lOth season in the National Basketball Association, signed as a free agent Tuesday night with the Boston Celtics. 
His signing was an­nounced at a news confer­ence after Maravich watch­ed Boston whip Houston 112-106 while sitting with Celtics GeneraJ Manager Red Auerbach. 
The two, accompanied by attorneys, met for about 75 minutes behind closed doors prior to the game. 
Maravich, 31, said he planned to go immediately on the injured list until he recovered from a ''slightly pulled groin muscle.'' 
Coach Bill Fitch said Maravich signed a one-year contract, but didn't reveal details. 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Obsentar office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail. 


----------~~~--~--------------------------------------~-------------~ 
Wednesday, January 23, 1980 -page 12
SRorts 
Dantley, Williams take ! different roads to NBA 
by Skip Desjardin He was the Lakers second Sports Writer leading scorer and rebounder (only Kareem Abdul-) abbar 
Adrian Dantley loves the game had better stats.) However, of basketball, and it no longer when September rolled around, matters to him where he plays A.D. found himself in Salt Lake it. Don "Duck" Williams is City. just happy to be in the National ''I'm numb to being traded. I Basketball Association, and it just want to play as hard as I doesn't matter to him where he can, and as long as I enjoy is playing either. It just so basketball. I've played hard happens that these former and played well on every team Notre Dame basketball stars I've played on. Being traded now play together for the Utah just doesn't bother me any­
Jazz of the NBA. more. I'm tired of hearing that 
They are complete opposites, I'm going to end my career these teammates. Adnan Dam­somewhere. I'm just going to ley is an All-Star, averaging go out and play my game. around 30 points a game; a 6 Whatever happens, happens.'' foot 5 inch forward who always "Ther's no way we'd trade leads his team in rebounds. him," says Utah coach Tom Duck Williams is a six foot two Nissalke, "Ther isn't a player inch guard averaging a respect­in the league who can handle able eight points a game. He is him. We want to build the Jazz 
Wl?,_ere has all ofND 's money gone? 
Some people call them small or minor sports. 
operate at Notre Dame. Everything the good ol' Others call them non-revenue producing sports. Fightin' Irish make, goes to the University. Then a Still others, I'm afraid, call them worthless -that is, fraction of that megasum returns to die athletic 
not worth a single scholarship dollar. Michael department to pay for scholarships, salaries Perhaps you read on this page last Thursday, a administrative costs and recruiting, travel and carefulfy-worded statement tssued by Notre Dame maintenance expenses. 
athletic Director Edward "Moose" Krause which, in Ortman The res_P.onsibility for what has trans.(lired lies not 
S/>om Writer 

in the ACC but under the Golden Dome. The response to tolonel Stephens' latest budget request essence, said that the university will no longer offer 
athletic scholarships to anr.one except to basketball came back some $50,000 shy. Yet Stephens wasand football players. "No firm commitment for new So where does all that money go? 

quic;k. to defend, to some extent, the administration's athletic grants-in-aid should be made," it read Yesterday afternoon, I sat in fhe office of Colonel deoston.
"until a firm decision has been reached by the Board John Stephens, Associate Athletic Director. During "It's not our goal to field national championship

our conversation, he showed me a huge piece ol
of Trustees.'' 

cardboard standing in the corner. It was a replica of teams in every sport,'' he said. ''Our goal is to have ThevariouHeactions were similar. "Gosh, isn't that a check dated April ---, 1979, from the Cotton Bowl representative teams in for the non-revenue sports.''
too bad '' or ·'Boy, I feel sorry for the hockey team.''

1 in the amount (grab a chair) $1,526,274.68. Stephens uses the word "representative" to refer
And wtth that most went about their busmess. A It wasn't made out to the "Notre Dame Football to a competetive team re_Qresenting the University. Ifew offered speculation as to whx. 

team" or "The Notre Dame Athletic Department." use it in a somewhat different context.
"The athletic department must be going broke." 

It simply read, ''pay to the order ofThe University of I see these two classifications as being the extremes"It must be because the football team didn't make Notre Dame." · with the national championship on top and a a bowl game." 
representative team somewhere between IUSB and"I'll bet Title IX has something to do with this." "I haven't fiOt the slightest idea where it (the South Bend Adams. Right now, most of Notre''Well, I guess they fi~ure that if a sport doesn't money) goes1 said Stephens. 
make money, it shouldn t get money.'' At the Untversity of Michigan, athletics is a Dame's non-revenue-producing teams lie some­Before people start laying the blame anywher~, self-sustained entity. Whatever it makes, it keeps where in the middle, but should the Board of they must understand the money flow of athlettc and spends accordingly. That's not the way things Trustees jump on his bandwagon, the downward slide will be complete within the next three or four
dollars at Notre Dame. Try to imagine the · years.
magnitude of the revenue generated by Irish football 
Current scholarship allocation 

The money is there. Isn't it? Or ~oes it j~st dependand basketball.: 
on how Fr. Joyce, Executive vtce-pres~dent and1. Major Bowl Games Chairman of the faculty board of ~fhletic~, .et a),2. Telfvts.ion (National, Regional, Metro basketball 
Football ;m9)• Golf 1 

decide to use it. "We run a damn ught shtp m thts network and Cable)' 
Basketball ''"' 13 F~ndng o· 

athletic defartment," said Stephens. "You won't 
3. Radio ( Mutual• broadcasts ) 
·o 

find a lot o money wasted around here.'' Yet when 
Hocker. .20 .Soccer
4. Ticket Sales (Football, Basketball, Hockey, and 

questioned about how the basketball team could Soccer) 
Track/C Country 11 Swimming. 0 
Baseball 4 

afford a pair of visits to California in less than twoWomen's Sports 0 
5. Concessions weeks, the Colonel admitted, ''I would question thatTennis 2 

6. Sale of publications Wrestling 2 TOTAL too.'' 
7. Contributions. 
:.::;,,. ~ 

After realizing what was transpiring~ one baseball To try to come up with even a rough figure for all of 
player said yesterday, "I guess that Notre Dame no that would be pure speculation, but you get the idea. 
• does not include scholarships offootball players .. 
whose·careers have been enaed by injury. .·· . 
[continued on page 9)
+.• 

takes an 8-4 record into Thurs­
Adrian Dant'!y [center, with ballj, picked up in the pros

day's game at Chicago Uni­
where he left ohat Notre Dame--drawing crowils. [Observer

versity. 
Photo File} . 

After Villanova, UCLA 
Irish seek reliefversus Canisius 
with quick teams this season." averaging 13.0 p01nts per 
Sports Editor Canisius comes into the ACC game. 
with a 7-7 overall record, and JOining Moore in the front 

Coming off a pair of emotion­the Griffins defeated St. Bona-court are .6-8 junior Brian al victones over UCLA and venture m their last contest, Toohey (8.4 p.p.g.) and 6-8 Villanova, the Notre Dame 77-70. In their only other freshman center Mark Rzemek, basketball team is hoping for a contest against a nationally-who iS replacing the Griffins' bit of relief tonight, as they face ranked team, Canisius was. third-leading scorer, Herb the Golden Griffins of Canisius bombed by Syracuse 81-49. Billips. Billips, averaging 10.9 College at 8 p.m. tonight at the Duke Richardson, a 6-1 point P·P·S·· was declared scholastic­ACC. guard leads the attack for the ally tneligible. 
But the running offense of Griffins, averaging 13.6 points "They don't have a dominant the Griffins may force the Irish per game and also dishing out a ./big man," adds Phelps, "so we to work a ltttle harder than they team leading 95 assists. The should be able to handle them would like to. senior is joined in the backcourt on the boards. They like to put 
Canisius has a very quick by classmate Chuck Cle"ment, the ball up. I'm sure if we can team," comments Irish coach who averages 7.5 ppg. stop their running game, if we Digger Phelps. ''They've been The main force on the front can pressure them into taking very successful with their run­line is 6-6 junior Barry Moore, shots they normally wouldn't 
who leads the team in rebound-and out rebound them, we'll be 
by Mark Perry 

ning game, and that's what worries me. We've had trouble ing with a 5.7 average, and is okay.:• 
open, friendly, and eager to talk 
to you about basketball, being in the NBA, and his experiences at Notre Dame. A.D. is quiet, unassuming, but unquestion­ably the star of his team. All acuvity in the Jazz locker room revolves around his locker. 
After Dantley left Notre Dame in the spring of 1976, with one year of college eligibility re­maining, he went on to be Rookie of the Year for the Buffalo Braves. Leaving Notre Dame is a decsion that A.D. says was a difficult one for him to make, but one that he'd make again. "At the time, it was what I had to do, and looking back, I'd have to do the same thing again," he says. 
A.D. averaged 20.3 points a game for the Braves in that rookie year of 1976-77, but was traded "back home" to Indi­ana.He only lasted a half a season with the Pacers, who shipped him to Los Angeles for seven-foot center James Ed­wards. Finally, Dantley thought he had found a home. 
around him and have him end his career here in Salt Lake City." And no one really knows if Dantley will do that, or continue to travel from team to team. 
Duck Williams has done some travelling of his own. After leadin~ the Fightin' Irish to a berth m the NCAA Final Four, Williams moved to the Western Basketball Association's Reno team. 
•'For me, this is like staying at home. I'd played in the gym in Salt Lake Ctty a couple of times. 
I'm just down the road from Reno." But he's a big step up the pro basketball ladder. 
''Everyone wants to get to the NBA. I had to take a different route to get here, but the bottom line is whether or not you make it. It's just a matter of working hard. If you give it all you've got, something you really want can come rrue. '' It's that hard work that has gotten Williams to the NBA and 
[continued on page lOJ. 








