!
.__ 
...Kramervs. Kramer-page 9 

VOL. XIV, NO;.;JP 7/ an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 1980 
ND attends hearing today in sex discrimination case 
by Mark Rust News Editor 

A U.S. District Court judge will rule this afternoon on motions made by the University which would place temporary restraining orders on the plain­tiffs in the Notre Dame sex discrimination case, scheduled to come to trial this fall. 
The hearings today may bring to the surface tensions which have smoldered since the November filing of class action suits by women faculty mem­bers charging the University with sex dtscrimination. 
In the hearings today, the University will contend that the plaintiffs have been soliciting clients from the eligible class members of the case-meaning all tenured and non-tenured faculty women-and giving mis­leading advice at meetings of those class members. 
The restraining orders asked for by the University would essentially be "gag" rulings prohibiting attorneys for Del­ores Frese and Josephine Ford­the two women named as principals in separate class action suits-from holding meet­ings and otherwise cori_lmunica­ting with other potential mem­bers of the class action suit. 
The University will today enter as their principle evi­dence a letter sent by Bridgit Arimond, a member of the staff for the legal firm of Davis, Miner and Barnhill-represen­ting the plaintiffs-to Eltzabeth Gilbert, a University professor and chairoerson of Committee 
W. Committee W is a women's group which includes all w<?men faculty members and ts a sub-committee of the American Association of University Pro­fessors (AAUP). 
According to Gilbert, the group has bee "trying to inform people in and out of the case. We will monitor the case for all people involved." The letter which the University P._lans to enter as evidence of "misleading information" is, according to Gilbert, an example of an attempt to inform those faculty potentially involved in the suit. 
University counsel Phil Fac­cenda was unavailable for com­ment last night. 
Two class action suits hav e been filed by women faculty members. One suit,. Theology Professor Josephine Ford's, will include all six of Notre Dame's tenure women. The second suit, filed by former EngliSh Professor Delores Frese, will include all non-ten­ured women at the University. The suits were filed and certi­fied on Nov. 19 and 20, 1979, res pee ti vel y. 
The Frese suit will include all non-tenured faculty women un­less an individual specifically asks to be exempted. Thus every non-tenured woman fac­ulty member will have to decide whether she will take a passive role in the case and remain on the plaintiffs side or choose to exempt herself and, perhaps, testify for the defense. 

Tensions mount 
Three non-tenured faculty women, who plan to remain in the class action suit and prefer to remain anonymous at this point, say that tensions are building as the deadline nears 
[continued on page 6] 
by janet Rigaux Senior StaffReporter 
Over 85 percent of the faculty at Notre Dame believe the University should develop an 
appeals procedure  for  profes­ 
sors  dented  tenure  or  promo­ 
tions,  according  to  a  survey  

conducted last semester. As a result, the Faculty Senate is drawing up a procedure, Senate President Kenneth Goodpaster said yesterday. . 
''Right now there ts no ap­peals procedure and the faculty deems this an important prob­lem that needs to be remedied between the faculty and the administration,'' Goodpaster said. 
The survey also revealed that faculty members are co~cetn~d with the way the Umverstty determines their teaching quality. Seventy perce;nt say they are dissatisfied wtth the administration's use of student evaluation as the primary source of deciding teaching effectiveness. 

Olympic Committee backs Carter 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. (AP) -The United State Olympic Committee, after agreeing to support President Carter's de­mands on the Olympic_s, laid 

Facultypromotions 


ND establishes appeals procedure 
Steve Batill, chairman of the evaluations are important, but student affairs committee, they should not be the sole agreed with the professors' criterion for teaching assess­dtssatisfaction. ''The present ment.'' student evaluation form is out­dated," he said. "These [continued on page 10] the groundwork yesterday for games of its own if there is a boycott of the Summer Games in Moscow. 
The USOC Executive Board voted to continue trainin~ an Olympic team even if a dectsion is later made that no American athletes should be sent to Moscow because of the Soviet intervention in Atghanistan. Those athletes could then parti­cipate in a sports festival some­time this year if they did not go to the Olympics this summer. 
Sources said the Americans would also consider inviting athletes from any country that boycotted Moscow to attend the 
SBP!SBVP 
Meeting turns up candidates 
by Michael Onu!rak Senior Copy Editor 
Though no one is officially in the race yet, eleven students showed up at the first organiza­tional meeting for those ''considering to run'' for Student Body President and Student Body Vice President last night in the student government offices. 
At the meeting, potential candidates were given a list of campaign rules, and were told that they may begin forming campaign committees today. The SBP/SBVP election will be held February 25, with ·a runoff, if necessary, scheduled for February 27. 
Senior ~lass Secretary Bob Carey and Junior Class Prestdent Tom Beh11ey headed the list of those who were in attendance at the meeting. Carey, an architecture major, will return for a fifth year of study next yeat. 
Also attending last night's meeting were former Sophomore Class President Jim Veraldi, Keenan Hall President Paul Riehle, and student government liason to the CLC and HPC Frank Guilfoyle. 
Among the others who are considering a run for SBP or SBVP were Ed Bylina, Torsten Marshall, Jim "Slatts" Slattery, "Uncle" Keith Cooper, Jim White, Randy McNally, and another student who wished to remain unidenti­alternative festival, a sugges­tion that was made by Carter. 
fied.  .  
None  of  those  who  attended  last  night's  
[continued on page 2]  

The USOC Executive Board voted unanimously Saturday to support Carter's request to seek a transfer, postponement, or cancellation of the Moscow games unless the Soviets with­draw their troops from Afghan­istan by Feb. 20. 
If the International Olympic Committee, which has sole responsibility for the . games, refuses the request -an action USOC President Robert J. Kane has said he considers likely -the USOC will meet to decide if American athletes will enter the competition. 
The executive board vote -68 of the board's 86 members were present -came after a 2 1I 2 ­hour plea from the Carter administration. Carter's re­quest has been backed by some 
U.S. allies, including Canada. 
Carter, returning to the White House last night from Camp David, Md., where he spent the weekend, was asked if he were pleased by the executive board's action backing his de­mands on the Olympics. "Yes, very much so,'' he replied. 
Don Miller, USOC executive director, said yesterday he be­lieved a sports festival would be feasible but would not specify particular dates the event could be held. He did say the event might be staged at the same time as the Olympics were going on in Moscow. 
[continued on page 2] 
I 1 
-~-~ 

' 
,
' 
r 
r 
r/ 
,r 
, 
r 
' 
,f 
,
' 
r 
' 
News in brief  Monday, January 28, 1980 -page 2  
Islamic representatives meet to denounce Russia ISLAMABAD, Pakistan (AP) -The Soviet Military intervention in Afghanistan threatens world peace and the security of small nations everywhere, Pakistan's president warned yesterday at the start of an emergency three-day meeting of Islamtc foreign ministers. Afghanistan boycotted the session. "We view this development with the utmost apprehension because unless the trend to subjugate small countries through the use of force is arrested in time, world peace and the independent existence of small countries would be endangered," said Gen. Mohammed Zia ui-Hag, the Pakistani president. He also told the Kremlin the only way it "can effectively restore trust and cooperation (with) the Islamic world'' is to pull its troops from Afghanistan. Secretary ofArmyfavors 'registering women for draft· WASHINGTON (AP) -Secretary of the Army Clifford L. Alexander]r. said Sunday he favors registering women for the draft, though he stressed he was against resuming the draft itself at this point. Alexander also said he was opposed to stationing U.S. soldiers in Pakistan -one suggestion for stabilizing Southwest Asia -but felt it would ''be useful'' for the American military to have bases available somewhere in the Persian Gulf area. Reagan considers blockade to hinderRussian transpo NEW YORK (AP)-Republican presidential hopefulRonald Reagan said Sunday if he were president he would consider a blockade of Cuba in retaliation for the Soviet armed intervention in Afghanistan. ''I'm suggesting that we might blockade Cuba and stop che transportation back and forth of Russian arms. Soviet military, their submarines are based there," Reagan told interviewer Dan Rather on CBS's "60 Minutes." Reagan's remarks were part of a criticism he made of President Caner's foreign policy and what Reagan, a candidate for the Republican presidential nomination, said was a failure to send the "proper signals" to the Soviet Union. Weather Mostly cloudy Monday. Highs near 20. Cl?udy ~onday night with a 50 percent chance of snow developmg dunng the ni~ht and continuing Tuesday. Lows Monday night near ten. Htghs Tuesday in the low 20s.  (continued from page 1] No site for the sports festival was named although Colorado Springs, which was host of two previous summer events and is the home of an Olympic train­ing center, was the strongest possibility. It was also under­stood that Montreal, scene of the 1976 Olympic Games would also be considered as well as a PhiladelJ?hia. A nauonal sports festival would not require any sanction from the IOC, however, if athletes from other countries were to participate in it or if it was held outside the United States, there would be a re­quirement for approval from an international governing body. A member of the executive board said yesterday that Car­ter will press Congress for a bill to underwrite expenses of an alternate site for U. S. athletes to compete if the country boy­cotts the Moscow games. In a telephone interview with the Cincinnati Enquirer from Colorado Springs, USOC execu­tive board member Rolly Schwartz said the committee has been assured of Carter's support for alternate site fund­ing by White House General Council Lloyd Cutler. ''He assured us that the president would underwrite any type of bill that would assure us revenue so that the athletes can compete." Schwartz said. Kane said Saturday that the Executive Board was "buying more time" by approving the resolution because the USOC has until May 24 to decide whether to enter a U.S. team in the Summer Games. "We'll deal with it when we have to," he said. "Circum­stances will change, we hope for the better, but we're not clairvoyant, so we don't know." He said he did not fault Carter for pressing the Olympics The Observer. Night Editor: ] ohn Smith .Asst. Night Editor: Ten· ''Champagne Queen'' Michie­tutti, Deirdre Murphy Copy Editor: Mike Lewis Layout Staff: Lynne VanHou­sen, Bob Bernoskie News Editors: Mike Lewis an Margie Brassil Editorial Layout: Greg Hedges Features Layout: Kate Farrell, K. Connelly Sports Layout: Brian Beglane Mike Ortman ' Typists: Paula Shea, Btl/ Swift, Mary Beth Budd, Marilyn Broden'ck, EMT's: Mike Galvin, Beth "Saint" Huffman Proofreader: Rick Freedman NO Day Editor: Robert Davtd ''Quasi-skzing '' Bernoskie AJ Design: Dane wood, Anne Fink Photographer: } ohn Macor Guest Appearances: Barbie f Biehl, Pam "Wild-woman" Degnan, MB, Rosemary Tile Observer [USPS • 111) Is published Monday tllroutll f'*Y II· cept during rum 1nd VICitlll ,.,..... The Observer Is publisllld tlf 1111 students If Natrl 011111 .. SliwlMl,l':.;:'....· Sublcrlptlllla!llly Ill pu t. S2ll per ,_.. IS• ,_ IIIMitlrlfrM~ The Observer. P.O. 1111 a. Nttn b•me.JIIdllu ... S.-1 ellis 1111t111 p11d, Ntlll'l 011111. 111­dillll-41151. The Observer 11 I llllllllllr II till Aaedltlcl Prill. All ........ rlglits .,. raerved.  • • • Colllmittee ISSUe. of other nations because to do ''If I were president I would so would violate international use every weapon I could, so I Olympic rules. don't personally blame him for He said he did not think any using this," Kane said. "I city in the world except Moscow think it is more symbolism than has the facilities to house and effectiveness, but it is a wea{'on feed the estimated 12,000 ath­even if it is only a psychologtcal letes, 15,000 sports personnel one.'' and more than 100,000 visitors. He added: "I don't think Lloyd Cutler, the White House we're surprised that the Ameri­general counsel who spoke to can public is outraged by this the committee, said: "The (the Soviet intervention.) The issue is not competing against question is whether the Olym­Soviet athletes, but whether the pic movement and the U.S. whole world will troop to Mos­Olympic athletes are the kind of cow this summer and allow the weapon to use to whip the Big Soviets this enormous propa­Bear. The weapon is made of ganda festival." flesh and blood, the flesh and He said some 30 nations blood of our athletes." including the United Kingdom' Kane indicated the most via­Autralia and New Zealand' ble option would be to seek a have told the Carter administra: postponement of the games. tion they will recommend with­USOC representatives will meet drawal of their teams from the with IOC President Lord Killan­Moscow Games if the United in on Feb. 9 in Lake Placid, States drops out. He declined N.Y., four days before the to name the other countries. formal opening of the Winter Olympics there. There has been no official White House commenr on the USOC action. But ] oseph ... SBPOnek, a White House attorney, said the committee acted exact­ly as the president requested. ''The president did not ask (continued from page I] them to go that further step (boycott the Games) at this meeting is, as yet, an "official" time," he said. "I can well candidate. understand the reluctance of A ·candidate for SBP or SBVP the USOC to prejudse what the must procure 200 student international committee is go­signatures before his name can ing to do. There is no point in be J?laced on the ballot. prejudgin~ it. The USOC is Petitwns will be distributed to going to vigorously and sincere­those who wish them next ly press the case.'' Tuesday. Signed petitions Kane said the USOC would must be returned to election make a ''personal presentation officials by the following Wed­m a faithful, sincere way'' to nesday. the IOC. But he said the USOC Actual campaigning will not would not try to win the support begin until February 17. FLY FROM SOUTH BEND TO FORT LAUDERDALE ... ONLY$189 Complet~ package as low as $298 Complete package includes round trip non-stop jet fare and oceanfront hotel accomodations also available National Car Rentals DEPARTSMARCH 29 RETURNS APRIL 5 for reservation information call Shaz 232-6831 or call toll-free 1-800-848-9540 arrangement by Student Sun Trips, Inc.  
Camp~u~s_ ____.  
12:10 pm TEACHING/LEARNING SEMINAR SERIES, "professional aspects of higher education," dr. robert gordon, nd. 242 O'SHAG, (brown bag) sponsored by the educational media. 5:00 pm MASS, st. thomas aquinas celebration. ALUMNI HALL CHAPEL. fr. marvin o'connell, celebrant. 5:D pm FRENCH CLUB DINNER, 2ND FLOOR, SOUTH DINING HALL. sponsored by dept. of modern languages. 6, 8, 10 pm SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES, "bread & chocolate," LIBRARY AUD. sponsored by ctr. for experiential learning. 6, 8:30, 11 pm SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES, "harlan county, usa" ENGR. AUD. sponsored by ctr. for experiential learning. 7:00pm CAMPAIGN MEETING, ben fernandez campaign committee. sponsored by fernandez for president. LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 7:30 pm FILM SERIES "citizen kane," WASHINGTON HALL. sponsored by dept. of speech and drama. St or $10 for series . 8:00 pm PHILOSOPHY DEPT. LECTURE, "lectures in' philosophic logic," prof. saul kripke, princeton u., GALVIN AUD. 8:30pm MEETING, ski club LAFORTUNE LITTLE THTRE. 10:00 pm MEETING, fellowship of christian athletes. discussion and reflection. DILLON HALL CHAPEL.  

I 
t•"""~.,._ ~· • ........,. -...,.. • r •.,. • ~ ..,~,i-· "'~'T ~ .. ,...., . .,.,-'7"'""~!:(""·':~~,-"'"·$-,..,..,.,.... ~,,. •• ... ~ • "••" ,. .. , ... -~=-".,. ...,.,.~,.,. ···-,. • .,.~""' • ~,. "'""" ·-~'!"~,<>:""·""""""'"-""'' ~rz;~-T-;-""~Titr:<>;,"'~'S 'l:Z""'''~'~"""-·"'!!"~·~q::-~~ l
LY..........~~.._.......,_.,_, .,.. .,.., .............,.~-~..·..-. -'-"-· ~~~·~---~•"--»~-".. ••'"-"·~~"""' .>--'U~o>"-~.._,.-"•""->...s'§•'.>l"'-'-"'-·~·"-~-· ........ •:o. .~~-'-"'"''•·~w~<.<.~· .,_, · --·~·~'"""''~-~ ·-·' ~--...'01 ~ 

~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----­

The sun tn'es to break through the overcast skies that brought snow on the South Bend area over the weekend. [photo by John Macor] · 
(AP) -Abolhassan Bani-Sadr, whose apparent victory in Iran's first presidentiaL election has been taken as an encourag­ing sign for the American hostages in Tehran, said yester­day a solution to the crisis "becomes attainable" if the United States does not meddle in Iranian affairs. 
At a news conference at his campaign headquarters in Teh­ran, the Iranian finance minis­ter, a dose associ:::.te of Iranian leade. A":>tollah Ruhollah Khomeini, also said foreign reporters should be allowed unrestricted access to Iran even iffalse and distorted reports are sent to the rest of the world. 
"False reports are better than no reports or reports from a long distance," he said -an apparent reference to the ex­pulsion of U.S.[ournalists from Iran on Jan. 18. 
Unofficial returns reported Bani Sadr had received a whop­ping 75 percent of votes cast in Iran's first presidential elec­tion. Offictal returns were expected today. Iran has 22 million eligible voters. 
''It has been asked how we are to resolve the U.S. Embassy crisis," Tehran radio quoted Bani Sadr as telling the jour­nalists in a broadcast monitored in London. 
''The solution to the crisis is not wholly up to us, only a part of it concerns the Iraman gov­ernment." A solution will come, he continued, when the 
U.S. government tells Ameri­cans and other world citizens that it will "desist from expan­sionist policy and domination over other nations and when it concedes the right to our people to pursue criminals anywhere in the world." He did not elaborate. 
During his talk with reporters, Bani Sadr did not mention by name deposed Shah Moham­mad Reza Pahlavi. Islamic militants holding the Ameri­cans hostage for 12 weeks have demanded the shah, living in Panama, be returned to face trial before-the Americans are released. 
In another development, the 
son of Iranian leader Ayatollah 
Ruhollah Khomeini said his 
father would be transferred 
from an intensive care unit to 
an ordinary hospital ward if he 
continued to be listed in satis­
factory condition, Tehran radio 
reported. 
''There is no cause for worry, and the Imam (spiritual leader) is feeling very well," Ahmad Khomeini said in the radio broadcast, monitored in Lon­don. He said his father had been examined by doctors Sun­day morning and that his pulse and blood pressure was normal. The ayatollah was taken to a 
Tehran hospital's cardiology 
department from his home in 
the holy city of Qom W ednes­
day for what his docto~s des­
cribed as a minor heart ailment. 
S.M.C. supporters to organize 
The Saint Mary's Spiritual Commission is sponsoring a Students' Mission Care, (SMC) to promote support of the Holy Cross Sisters' missions. 
There will be a meeting tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the Student Government office in Regina Hall for students inter­ested in working with S.M.C. Students interested can call Ann Hesslau (5409) or Kathleen Hackett (4154). 
THE MONDAY NIGHT FI-LM SERIES­13 FILMS -SlO.OO 
( 
Monday lanWV!Jj Z 1 
Mondo.y 1anWV11J Z 8 Monday F~bllWV!Jj 4 
Mondo.y FebllWV!Jj 11 
Mondo.y FebiWLlltY 18 
Monday Mllltch 10 
Monday Mllltch. 17 
Mondo.y Ap!Li.t Z 8 

GENERAl AVMTSSTON TS $1.00 AT THE VOOR 
EVERY MONVAY ~1GHT AT 7: 'Ill WASHINGTON H4ll, NOTRE VAME 
Vay Foil Ni.ght. F~tanco.W TIW6t(aut'6 love 6ong to fribn maJUng. A dta!tLid~~L<->.ti.cilly WaJtm, ~ngag.lng, genti'Y humoiWu& f,ilm o6 g~at di.l>tinction. ll!ttit T!tu66aut, Jacq~ti.ne Bi1.6U, Jean-P.L~IIM 
Leaud and J~.an-PieMe Aumont. -­
Citiz~n Kan~. ~lie&' acknoWledged •wtellpotece o6 6.i.lm Llltt. 
OU!t Ho&p-i.tali tv. fu6 tell Ke.ato.' 6 t.ittfe knoWn cla66.i.c. A wondiill6Ul '"""l'h on the "golden age" on Hoflywood cooedy. 
The TIU.~d Man. The g•ea.t coed walt thl!.i.ffell, -t~llnuUy di.~cted by Si• Ca~of Reed, ~cJLipted by Gllllham Gne.ene., and played to nelllt peonect.i.on b<i 01t6ott I.Jie.fiel>, Jo6~pl1 Cotten, Vai.t.i. and T~uoll 1/oWLlltd. 
Tit e. Bi.lldl.. Hi tchcoch '6 796 3 O"tii tholo'li caf th'Lili~• in wh.i.ch. ~ altl'. tu•ne..d U,'On by thRill neathr~ij n•.i.endiJ. T.i.ppot fendJ!t.n, loo"'-"9 app•op•-iat,•.fv te.W.~i.ed, ltM.•'· in al good an eJ<""'?le a6 w~ ~avo on l~tcJtcock'l di.M.cto~~Hyie. 
Staq~coach. l<lten tlte. w.-~t wa6t Tl"' we.r Mrl genlter we~ gen~~. Joh~ Fo~td ma.cW on~ r~ tlh~ hMt. Wi-th Jalm b'mjne. oofting i.nc/IJldi.blij UCl(Clh rut~ the othe• ltl'nUe" on the Fo<d Re~Wo•y Company: cra.t 'U' TltR\•C•'I, Thorm.~ ~-tc:u!.f..f, Wlrlrd Pend, Andy Ve.v.ine, etc. 
A Mru1 f¢c.::t.p('tf. Robe'lt &ieBon'1 cOtl"fJil'X w~''-'!ativ.e a~ the ~~tape 
O'i\<i('oli"~.t hcnc:, ,,.,i.Hrutcc t.iqht., dw.ing th~ G~1tm111 
occupat-ion. A URauti nul O<!l!p(C "' B>!C6lnn'l rontool.l~rl. ~d 
Hyle. 
Oc.tol>e '!. The Te.n Day~ tJtat ~touk tlte WMrid a~ ~een by SeJtgU 
W~116f.Un U. rn~ ol tile _q>J/a.t exanpfe~ ol th~ paHi.n"ate V~Lllll> 
o~ tJr.e .SOv.ie?t r.i.n{'.ma, 
LMI' Ye»a1! (t( Mn'r.ie.nbarl. Afa.i.tl Rr!ltlai.\ tol:v.\ ~~~ tlr'1ouq:1 a fablf.lj.i11.tl1 (i-ifl.funnu!f·~--f~lm-tic e'Xl!ttcL~e tilllt (!!, a~tl!lf l4 l}e.altb, 6t.iU contiUJi•eJtA.iaf.. 
MuJI.i.J.t. In tJLi~, RC~.na(~' nex.t ~.U'm aM<''~ Ma11:.i.C'nbad, !tC' ~hoW~ w fioW "iiif li<P Hyf.i.Hic t~o.icl'-' o~ t:.-•a•fi~,.,-a,.., tiql!tty u&ed .i.11 a naJtMti.u<• on ~<ellt pr>W~. 
Mon o.,ci~(l.. Jarqur.~ 1at.l' .\ Wol'!de.'!~·H ,·q r'tulllf_/ cmre.dr! aU!•Ut F~~£.ncli ~(£ rur.l w-tiveJt~at ('t•ntv"'mi ta vL t:r~· odd pruou t•ld. 
AnncoJtd. fe~r.e~t.tro F~_U.uu'-!1 1973 •u·n~,IJifmlct•~ o~ t.irrt! . .\ pa~t. A m•ue.ffou&ty .<~a'!m and g<·nN• yet !Ji tina "'"i l<<nn!f ~ifm, &et detptv .in FMci6t It.-r.fl} and in th~, di~t.e.cto'l'6 ~~·rt~ihifttiriJ. 
Tiu.•. 'W.ddi..ttt1. R(lbPI!t Aftnrtn'~ 11U l'if•~\1 on A,tl!lrCfaH !loci..etlj. 
ATaV49d''q ,(uw1fj n.tf;rl wh.ich 44 •t n1•( tlt' f tin• pu1Jfir i.t rll6Vwe.d when it l\Jt%~ f·J 'l.6 t 1fJ.?.feace.d. k'c tit C~vwt l::uiJm' tt mrd V-i ttoJt.io Gfl:Bt?tllt, amonq tltliVI~. 
AU Fif,., 6pun>o<ed by the C"'l'" •atiw Ocplllttlll'nt o6 
Speed< and V•rum, U.Uuelt6<ty ol Not!te V""" and 
Sa.i.n.t IIJW' 6 CoUe.ge. .. ' 
MONVAY NIGHT FTUA Sl'RilS,_ SPRING StMlSTfR 1980 
MARDI GRAS DEALER'S SCHOOL SCHEDULE  
7:00  TUES JAN29 Flanner  WEDJAN30 Pangborn-Fisher (in Pangborn)  THURS,JAN 31 Keenan  FRI FEB 1 Zahm  SATFEB2 St. Ed's'  SUNFEB3 Howard-Badin (in Badin)  TUES FEB5 Holy Cross-Augusta (in Holy Cross)  
7:30  Grace  Lyons  Stanford  Cavanaugh  Walsh-Sorin  Dillon  Lemam  
(in Walsh)  
8:30  Farley  Morrissev  Lewis  Alumni  Mrr<~~eo;;~  
9:15  Breen-Phillips  Carrol  HolyCross (NO)  Utt -Campus (in Alumni)  Regiaa  




The Observer Monday, January 28, 1980 -page 4 
Faces at a rally 
lnsh coach "Digger" Phelps and cheerleader Margaret McGlynn were a few of the personalities on handat tbe pep rally last Fn"day night. A couple hundred fans attended the rally held in the ACC's auxilary gymnasium. The Insh succeeded in Saturday's nationally televrsed game, de­feating Maryland by a 64-63 score. [photos by john Macor] 


Representatives from General Dynamics, a Fortune 1 00 company with 15 operating divisions throughout the United States, will be visiting your campus to talk to you about our diverse. high-technu.ogy programs currently under contract. At GP.neral Dynamics you will , have the opportun;:v :,~ .vo. , ... ,th top 
professionals on E::J.!'  Jh.  · ,.Jrojects like the  
F-16. Cruise missiles. : . , ·  ubmarines LNG  
tankers. Sparrow m1s5.•:.:-:.  ,  ,: te!r:phone  
equipment and more.  ~···..;  -r"·"  ~""  

your discipline, your.:_.. ·-"'' ..-c.·tJ:u '" . our many locations shuv. •· '•ov:· 



FEBRUARY13&14 
To find out more about high-technology opportunities with one of the high-technology leaders in Telecommunications. Electronics. Tactical Weaponry, Shipbuilding, Aerospace, Data Products and other fields, contact your Placement Office. Or, send your resume to: 
Bill Coleman Corporate College Relations Administrator GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION Pierre Laclede Centb,, CN 43 
.:~ ") ~.':1105 
1-\, c:qua1 Urportur"'V ,-•rliJiuycr lvt r' 
Evans' fund begins operation 
The Joseph Evans Memorial Fund is now in full operation, according to one of its co­founders, Barb Budde, a grad­uate theology student. "We were all so shocked to hear about Joe's death last year," she said, referring to the late philosophy ,professor who pass­ed away tn late August. "That's why Tom and I decided to start the fund.'' 
According to Tom Hamel, a senior psychology major, the purpose of the fund is to raise enough money to ,put up a monument or plaque tn Evans's memory. "Actually, I can't take full credit for starting the fund; it was originally suggest­ed to me by my rector, Fr. Matthew Miceli, that maybe the University might be interested in putting up a memorial for him over by the 1 
1
crossroads.'' (The crossroads refers to the brick paths which ' converge on the fountain in front of Nieuwland Science Hall.) "lt was one of Joe's favorite places on campus, one . 
1
which he often mentioned in his 
writings," added Budde. 
I 
Hamel approached the ad­ministration with his idea, which received some support. ·'I was told that we could go ahead and put up a monument, but they (the administration) were concerned about the prob­lem of establishing a precedent, so they declined to finance the project." 
"It's too bad about the money," noted Budde. "Fr. Hesburgh wrote us, telling us that he liked the idea, and he gave us permission to rename the area, the Joseph Evans Memorial Crossroads, but now we have to turn to Joe's former students and the afumni to help up out." 
Any questions concerning the fund can be directed to either Budde or Hamt>' by ca":ng 1420 or 7'172. Dv ~ion· r 1n be n;,lt 1 ... l directly. t 1 the ~ .h Lv"-<ilS Memonal F• :Jr l;r,;.; 4!tj, Notre Dame, .i~" ,:,,)Jo. 
___j 


-----~-----------------­
The Observer Monday, January 28, 1980 ~~age 5. 



Elkhart hotel fire kills five, injures six 
by Michael Lewis was chaos out there." 
Executive News Editor ''When we got there, people who had already jumped were ELKHART Fire sent smoke laying on the ground and there 
' through a downtown hotel early were still people hanging from yesterday, killing five people the windows,," he said. and injuring six others, authori­
The dead were identified asties said. Some hotel residents Terry Bowlan, 29 and his wife,jumped from the building's Judith, 23; Thomas Cunning­third floor to escape. 
ham, 27; Eugene Simon, 70,The cause of the blaze is still and his wife ] eanette, 65.
under investi_gation. 
Officials told the AP that theEight firefighting units and Bowlans and Simons apparently rwo medics responded to the lived in the hotel, and Cunning­alan:~, and firefighters fought ham was visiting.
the blaze for four hours, the Elkhart Fire DepartrQent said Three of the bodies were last night. . found about 10 feet from a fire 
. Elkhart firefighter Robert escape. Two other victims were Wilson was overcome by smoke found in their separate rooms, inhalation, but was treated and officials said. , released from Elkhart General 
· In addition to Wilson, KathyHospital yesterday. Two others Chapman, 23, and Rick Snider, were treated and released,

John Zeman tnes to take a breather from his weight-lzfting chores. [photo by john Macor] 45, were tre~ted and released
while three remained hospital­from Elkhart General. 
ized in fair condition last night. Several people jumped from 
Still hospitalized in fair cond­the building's third floor to ition are Larry Eagen, 28;
SMC Student Assembly prepares Emmett Gooden, 58; 'and Pat
avoid the fire. Steve Bibbler, 
Pettit, 16.
reporter for The Elkhart Truth , 
said last night that the three

for Women's Opportunity Week 
people who remained in the hospital sustained hip injuriesby Pam Degnan The Assembly also discussed 8-10. The seminar will conduct when they jumped from theSenior StaffReporter continuing last semester's sue-various workshops dealing with third floor. 
cessful Cambodia relief pro-the problems of student leader­
The cause of the 3:30 a.m.
Final plans for Women's gram. The program would aid ship and administrative proce­blaze at the Swiss Inn has yet to Opportumty Week were discus­the Saint Mary's Holy Cross dures. 
be determined. The State Firesed at the Saint Mary's Student nuns who are working with the Marshall's Office, the ElkhartAssembly meeting last night. underprivleged Cambodian ·Fire Department and the Elk­children.
Women's Opportunity Week, hart Police Department will scheduled for March 10-13, will ''It would be wonderful if Fernandez investigate. the fire's origin. focus on the social, political and every student could pledge a Don Stacker, Elkhart's first economic achievements of the dollar a month to help the assistant fire chief, told the American woman. Guest speak­Cambodian effort. We must advocates Associated Press last night, ''It ers will include Jacqueline become aware of social injustice 
: • the world,'' said Spiritual 
· · .to meet
Means, a newly-ordained Epis­

C .~;,_;.----• Mary Ryan. 
copalian minister, and the high­ly-acclaimed poet Gwedolyn Pia Trigiani, student body There will be a meeting for Brooks. Marathon swimmer president, described the Board anyone interested in workingDiana Nyad will lecture on her of governance's plans to attend for the Ben Fernandez rece~t attempt to swim from the Catholic University and campaign' today at 7 p.m. in the Flonda to Cuba. College's seminar from Feb. LaFortune Ballroom. 
SMC BUSINESS ClUB SPONSERS S~UI\1~ 3/$1.oo TONilE 10-1 at SENIOR BAR 2110 PLEASE 
Ninth tliisweek 

A SOUND.BODY MAKES
Earthquake rocks California 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -The ninth house," Julie Gaudinski of San Geron­sizable earthquake in four days rattled imo, about 30 miles north of San the Livermore Valley of Northern Cali­Francisco, said Saturday nigh. "I felt fornia yesterday, but there was no the one the other day, but it was nothing new damage or injuries, authorities like this. This is a lot bigger." said. The latest quake, which struck at 2:58 
Scientists warned more quakes can be a.m. yesterday, was the ninth since 
elip out this ad and
expected in the area, about 30 miles Thursday to register at least 4.0-includ­~ast of San Francisco. ing six aftershocks that occurred bet­
visit your nearest
ween Thursday afternoon and Friday morning. In addition, there have been about 100 minor jolts. 

Parklane store .. 
'All40 lanes, 400 pins , Laurence Wells, who was working in a railroad tower in Fremont at the time, 

It will save you
said the Sunday shaker ''was quite a bit
went down at once ' 
different.'' 
15% on any
''The one Saturday was a big jolt and then shaking," he said. "The Sunday morning one was just a rapid shaking 


dancewear
Yesterday's tremor registered only from start to end and a lot shorter than4.0 on the Richter scale, not so violent the other one. It definitely made me 

purchase.
as the 5.6 quake that shook the area at 
jump." Some chemical bottles were smashed6:33p.m. Saturday. 
Mike Browne of the state Office of 
Now is
and library books were again thrownEmergency Services said damage from from their shelves Saturday at theSaturday's quake was widespread, but 



the time

Lawrence Livermore Laboratory, a sup­''There was a lot of broken glass, er-secret nuclear weapons research
minor, and no injuries were reported. 


to make your
facility where extensive dama~e, some injuries and a leak of radioactive waterobjects knocked off shelves, minor 
cracks at the Greenville Overpass on were reported in the first quake 


next dance class 
Inerstate 580, but they were not bad 
Thursday. "We've had a bit of damage, but notenough to close the highway," Browne 
reported after Saturday's shaker. 


your best one ever. 
nearly as much as Thursday," said ] effKay Thomas, who lives near the area Garberson, informatiou ..officer for theof Saturday's quake, said, "My refrig­



This coupon must be presented 
lab. "We've had spillage and breakage erator flew open and everything flew of glassware, including several bottlesout. The refrigerator moved a foot out 


with a valid student I.D. card.
of nonradioactive chemicals. 
from the waiL · "One laboratory library had just been At a bowling alley in Dublin, nature 

Scottsdale Mall Offer expires 2/20/80. 
picked up and hundreds and hundredsrolled a giganus: bowling strike. "All 40 of volumes neatly place on the shelves, 


Sales # _____
lanes, 400 pins, went down at once," 


par~ane
and I don't have to tell you whatsaid]oe Kreins, an employee. 
happened.''
"It felt like a truck ran into the 

HOSIERY Amount 

ROCCOS 
men's and women's hairstyling at comfortable prices 531 N. Michigan 233-4957 

1 1 
1 
1 
1 
l 
~ 
, ~ ~
/ 
~ 
---------------------------­•. ~---.­..-.~~--.-.---.-~-.~~~-.~~~·.~-~.~~~--.~.-~~~.,~.-~.•~-~J_~._~;.£~£~1~.•£~~-~~~~~~..~~~~~..~~~.---------~-...~w.--~~.-~-~r* ....l,·o;,o-1',·.....-..-~~·n-~.·1 "'"',  
'1  
_)  

The Observer 

Students gathered for the Urban Plunge meeting last night tn the Library Auditonum. [photo by john Macor] 

~---PREMED STUDENTS~-­
ARE YOU WORRYING ABOUT MONEY FOR MEDICAL SCHOOL? 
Medical/Osteopathic school is tough enough without the financial worries. With today's rising cost of tuition,medical­osteopathic school, to some, is only a dream. 
The U.S. Navy can help you fulfill that dream with a medical I osteopathic scholarship that pays 100 percent tuuion. books, fees and a monthly stipend of$453 per month. This scholarship can help ease the burden of financial worries and allow you to use your energy to do your best in rnedil·al I osteopathic school. 
Sound interc,5ting?? Find out more about the Navy scholarship program by calling Medical Programs Officer at 
6)7-2161), collect, or by writing to: 
MI·:DICAL PHOGRAMS OFFlCEH (HPSP) NHD Chicago Bldg. 4I., NAS Glenview, IL. 60026 
~·:.: 


I-----------------~· 
I I 





RIVER CITY' 
I I 

I RECORDS 
I notth•tn Indiana'a latg•st I I t•cotd and tap• ••l•ctlon I and conc•tt tlck•t h•adquatt•ts I 
I 


Jl.OO OFFII 
anlil olbum or tape Exp1res February 4 1980 (1111111 I coupon per person) 
I I I

1 • 18,000 o.lbuma o.nd to.p•a In stock 
I•NO/StnC atuck-nt ch•cka o.cc•p~d for up to I 120.00 o.-•r putcho.a• o.mount , 
II • Op•n 10 to 10, 7 do.y1 o. wHk 
I I I 


50970 U.S. 31 Notth
I I 


I 277-4242 .. 
~~)1..,).., .. , r•r, ~ ,·~-~~ u .... ,. "'O'"· ..~ •. )... ·~~t\ ..) 
~

··~-·---~-~-------­
I I
1 
I 
I 
1 
I 
I I 
I 

Monday, January 28, 1980 -page 6 


tudents gather for'Urban Plunge 
by Maribeth Moran Sta/fReporter 
• Over two hundred and forty students gathered last night in the library auditorium for the seventh Urban Plunge follow­. up session. After a short general meeting led by Plunge co-ordinator Reg Weissart, students adjourned to the homes of faculty and admini­stration members to discuss 
their 'experience. 
The Urban Plunge is a one credit course offe.r:ed jointly by the Notre Dame Theology De­partment and the Institute for Religous Studies. It is organiz­. ed through the Center for 
Experiential Learning, whose 
director, the Msgr. ] ack 
Egan, is a veteran of Catholic­
Urban ministry for the past 
twenty years. 
Any student interested in 
making an Urban Plunge must 
first file an application, attend 
the orientation workshop, make 
the Plunge itself into the par­
ticular city, and then attend a 
follow up discussion group. 
This year some 240 students 
journeyed to 42 different cities 
to view both the Church's and 
the government's role in pur­
suing social justice. These 
figures re~resent a 20 percent 
increase 10 the number of 
students enrolled in the pro­
gram. 

All participants toured both 
social and Catholic relief agen­
cies in their attempt to under­
stand the implications of inner­
city poverty. 

''What impressed me most was what the Catholic Church was doing. Social involvement 
... Case 
[continued from page 1] 
for women to decide "whose 
side they are on." 
Reflections of this tension are numerous. According to two sources on the faculty, rumors have circulated which insinuate 
1 ed, 'Are you ta~ing me,' and he 
would not contmue our conver-I sation until I swore up and I down that I was not, even 
1 

I R~l-z·l c.¥ n
1 r.J ' 'a e 1 backersI I t t
I 0 mee 
I There will be an organizational1 meeting for those interested in 
helping Phil Crane win the 1 Mock Republican Presidential I nomination tomorrow night at 7 1 p.m. in 2-C LaFortune Student 
Center. The -meeting will beI short and all students are 
-· invited to attend. 
that members of the class action ~uit mayJ'epora~ize their promotwns an appomtments m the future. The letter from Arimond to Gilbert reported that a "number of questions about the possibility of retalia­tion by Notre Dame'' were raised by participants in the December 11 meeting. 
In one example of the current state of tensions between facul­ty and administrators, Gilbert related an incident involving a phone conversation between herselfand one administrator in which Gilbert intended to ask a question unrelated to the suit. According toGilbert, "He ask-was remarkable. My own suburban parish does consider­ably less. Evangelism and social service was mixed," said a d'unior from Fort-Wayne In iana who made the Plunge in Indianapolis. 
In a discussion group at the 
home  of  Dean  of  Students  
] ames  Roemer  and  his  wife  
Mary Anne,  several  students  

discussed their reaction to the Plunge. Chris Block, Mark Reddaway, Eva Marie Cekaitis, ] ane Ryan, Tom Hawley and Kelly Gaffney made the trip to six different cities. 
While their experience varied widely, the general con census was that the Church was an active leader in the parishes they visited in the pursuit of soctal justice. 
The Urban Plunge does not end at the conclusion of last night's discussion group. Fol­low-up programs mclude working in centers during the summer, and CILA workshops. 
The Urban Plunge is made possible by the volunteer work of the Urban Plunge Task Force who work many hours to make the Plunge a reality. 
Along with admimstrative per­sonnel Fr. Don McNeill, Reg Weissart, and Mark Van Wassenhove, several students coordinated this year's Plunge. Leo Latz, Louis Reifschneider, Mark Carney, Mary Monroe, Kay Tepas, Kelly McCauley, John Pinter, Alicia Puente, and Mary Cohan were responsible for organizing the course. 
Saint Mary's College sponors _ 'Artist in Residence Pr~gram' 
by Mary Kay Leydon 
Saint Mary's College, under the direction of Carol Ann Carter, assistant professor of art, is sponsoring an ''Artist in Residence Program'' to bring proffesional artists and their works to the attention of the community. 
New York artist Elena Borstein spent last week at Saint Mary's giving demonstra­tions and lectures to the students and faculty. Borstein is currently on ~<>hr~ · .,, f -m York College ox ..._ ~ .•.,·:~·sity 
though the matter I wanted to 
speak with him about had 
nothing to do with the suit." 
"The issue in these hearings 
is informed consent,'' Gilbert 
said yesterday. 

''The women faculty mem­
bers did not institute this suit. 
We became involved in it at the 
end of November. When some­
one involves you in a case like 
this it is important that you 
know what is happening. That is why we had the meeting with (Arimond)." 
According to the particip­ants, Arimond was requested to summarize the meettng in the form of a letter for those class members who were not able to attend the early afternoon meeting of Dec. 11, 1979. The letter Arimond sent, dated Dec. 28, described the nature of class action suits and sexual discrimination suits in general, and recorded the history of the two Notre Dame suits in partie­ular. 
The letter explained that class action suit~ generally proceed in two stages. First, the lawyers in the Ford and 
Frese cases will try to provethat patterns of discrimination against women exist. If the 
lawyers can prove this point,
according to the letter, "There will very likely be a second proceeding in which individual 
~lass members present their claims for what they are owed.'' The deadline for women fac­ulty members to exempt them­selves from the class action suit has been set for Friday, tho­ugh sources close to the case say that the deadline may be moved back as far as two weeks at the hearing today. 
of New York, where she is an assistant professor of art. She recieved a bachelor's degree from Skidmore College and a bachelor's and a master's from University of Pennsylvania. 
Ten years ago, Borstein had some of her works shown at the ''Women's Co-Operative Gallery'' in New York. This led to her first show at the Andre Zarre Gallery, New York, in 1978. She has subsequently had another exhibition there as well as other galleries in New York and Washington D.C. Some of her works are also on dis~lay in permanent col­lections at the Museum of Modern Art, New York. 
Borstein, using paints and ~astels, concentrates on arch­Itectural spaces. The paint­ings are usually contemporary narratives using buildings as symbols rather than structures. Borstein commented "My paintin~s are to be u~iversal, there ts no specific time or place, the painting is its own world.'' 
The structures she paints are Mediterranean type, adapted from photographs taken of buildings while traveling in Greece. She has made four such trips. 
The SMC art department host­ed an artists reception last Friday night for two exhibits. In addition to Borstein's work, a 
two  man  show  featuring  
sculpture  by  Lie  Sido  and  
paintings  by  Greg  Huebner  
wer~  .<l;lso  highlighted.  Both  

exhtbmons will be on display until February-at Moreau Gallery, SMC. Gallery hours are 9-11 a.m. and 12';30-3:00 
p.m. Tuesday through Friday. Saturday and Suuday hours are 12:30-4:00 p.m. 
Alumni mass to honor St. Thomas 
A Mass 10 honor 0f the feast of St. Thoma;, A.qt..inas will be celebrated today at 5 p.m. in Alumni Hall Chapel. Marvin O'Connell, chairman of the history department, will be the principal celebrant and preach the homily. 




Editorials 
Monday, January 28, 1980-page 7 
Asitis 
The Call to Apostasy 
Chris Stewart 
"Who ever knew the truth The U.S Bishops Conference 
bested z"n free and open en-recently had the golden oppor­
counter?" tunity to show their pastoral 
--John Mzlton concern for the important issue 
l used to be a good Catholic of sexist language m the liturgy. 
boy. I grew up believing all the Chaired by the inimitable Bis­
things the nuns and priests told hop John Quinn of San Fran­
me about God, saints, L-I-M-cisco, the conference refused to 
B-0, and my need to attend make any adjustments in offen­
9am Mass every Sunday. I sive language. 
dutifully went to Confession They sure showed us how 
every Saturday afternoon. In tough, cool, calm and collected 
those days, Confession was so they really are. One thing's for 
popular that there were actually sure: if I were a conscious 
lines to all four confessionals. female, it would be a cold day in 
The point was to get there hell before I ever went to Mass 
early, beat the rush, quickly again. 
state the weekly shopping list of Now to the Kung affair. John 
sin and hedonism, and get back Paul is a shrewdie in my book. 
to playing baseball. He waited until after his spec-
But that's all changed now. I 1 tacular media success from his 
learned how to think for myself. worldwide travels before he 
I started asking questions to lowered the boom on the 
which no one had any glib church's most maverick think­
answers. My asking the unask-er. It was also a wonderful 
able wasn't nearly as discon-Xmas present to all members of 
certing to me as it was to the the flock who, while aspiring to 
authority figure I asked. the intellectual life, disagree 
That was a long time ago. But with the orthodox curmudgeons 
it seeems that things haven't that the Council of Chalcedon is 
changed at all. Authority in the the acme point in the theologi­
Catholic Church still cringes cal history of homo sapierts. 
whenever someone asks the One of Kung's accusers· in the 
unmentionable, the forbidden, Holy Office,Jean Galot, SJ, has 
the unthinkable, the new. by all standards of democratic 
Two recent events--the trans-principle and justice disquali­
ferral of William Callahan, SJ, fied himself as a candidate to sit 
from his post as head of Priests in judgment of Kung. Why? 
for Equality, and the decreden-Because on three separate occa­
tializing of Hans Kung as sions pn"or to the Holy Office's 
Catholic theologian--seem to Dec. 15 decision to end Kung's 
indicate that the Church has career as a Catholic theologian, 
greatly erred. Unless it recog-Galot denounced Kung to be in 
nizes its error, it will lose error from Church doctrine. He 
enormous credibility and sym-did this in a book he authored, 
bolically forfeit its assumed role The Controverted Chnst. He 
as representative of the also harangued Kung overVai:­
"truth" (ie: Christ) on earth. ican Radio and excoriated him in 
Callahan's dismissal from his a front page editorial of an post came after his repeated Italian newspaper. All before challenges to the Vatican's the "inquiry", mind you. stance forbidding women from But the larger question is this: being considered worthy candi-why has the rope, supposedly dates for the Catholic priest-an intellectua himself, allowed hood. The superior general of this mockery to come to its the Jesuits, Pedro Arrupe, was sordid conclusion? Why does directly informed by John Paul Hans Kung strike terror in the II to "shape up discipline and hearts of the Vatican? Is it Iova ltv among Jesuits" (Time, because, like all totalitarian 12/24/79) This included Calla-regimes and "governments", it han, whose demotion has land-cannot tolerate criticism, diver­ed him in the winter wonder-si~y. and evolving human con­land of Chicago's Cardinal sctousness? · Cody, who doesn't want the If the scholars in Rome had dissident Jesuit in his archdio-read and learned the Vatican II cese. Council's constitution on the 
But the question is: why this Church in the Modern World a 
phobic emphasis on loyalty? bit more studiously, they might 
Cannot the Vatican take inter-bristle at the teeming words of 
nal criticism? If its views on the wisdom to be found m it. 
place of women in the church ''The faithful, both clencal 
are antediluvian, sexist, and and lay, should be accorded a 
scripturally unsupportable, why lawful freedom of inquiry, of 
not admit it? thought, and of expression, Why not say: WE'RE tempered by humzlity and cour-WRONG. WE'RE SORRY. age in whatever branch ofstudy WOMEN, MUCH TO OUR they have specialized. '' The COLLECTIVE CHAGRIN, ARE Church, for too many centuries HUMAN AFTER ALL. AMAZ-including our own, has pioneer­ING! THEY DESERVE A edits unique brand of intellect­ROLE IN THE CHURCH EQUAl ual castratism. If this trend is TO MEN, BECAUSE OUR not immediately halted, apos­LORD, JESUS CHRIST, tasywillbetheonlycourageous STOOD FOR LOVE, FREE-~ choice left for beltevers whose DOM, AND JUS11CE AMONG fount of tolerance for stupidity ALL PEOPLE. and cowardice has finally run 
Not on your life. dry. 



In Response to liberalism 
Joseph Bosco andJohn Murphy. 
Prof. Norling's scathing attack, "The Poverty of Liberalism" (The Observer, Jan. 18), poses seve~al ~hetoric~l questions. Although Prof. Norltng Is speakmg from a completely different paradigm from that of those he loathes, we will attemft to address his questions which are of crucia importance in light of our current national problems. 
Prof. ~orling .di.splays an excessi •e fear of commumsm ·remmiscent of the McCarthyism of the 1950s. In his concern over the purported ''Cea~eless struggle; of the Free World to escape the totls ofcommumst thralldom,'' he loses sight of the meaning of ''free world. '' 
Freedom involves not only unrestricted entrepreneurial opportunities, but also the freedom to correct major social problems. If a society sees extreme inequity of income distribution as an injustice and a hindrance to . further development, would Prof. Norling not grant the members of that society the self­
. determination necessary to bring about change? 
Donald Duncan, a veteran of fifteen years in the U.S. Army, including eighteen months as a Green Beret in Vietnam, observed after rejecting a field com!llission in 1967: 
''Every time a people decides to fight for self-dete;mination, we. blame it on the commun.zsts; kY contznu_ally giving the commumsts cre~zt for all soczal changes in areas where the mazntenance of the status quo zs suzcide, we buzld their prestige. Corrupt and dictatorial governments responsible for the ~ondition! t;Jhich breea revolts yell .Communzsts! and on _the theory that anything zs better than commumsm, we rush to their aid. As. a result, fewer look to our government for guzdance and more turn to the communists as f.heir onlY, source of help -and our propaganda once agazn becomes fact." [The New Legions p. 251) ' 
In short, this overwhelming fear of communism has so blinded us to necessary social change that once-friendly nations have repeatedly exploded in anti-American revolution. 
The United States as. a nation is held responsible abroad for the behavior of trans­national corporations (1NC), in large part because our government actively pursues the 1NCs interests. The U.S. government, however, should represent the interests of our country as a whole. While 1NCs naturally seek to maximize profits (an activity we don't ~egrudge), U.S. interests are more long-range 
{t.e. to continue trade and maintain good relations with the people and government of the country). This is the enlightened self-interest of ~he U.S. While it may not yield such high profits 111 the short run, long-term benefits outweigh this cost for the U.S. 1f it allows for long-term trade. Changes must be allowed to occur, and indeed should be encouraged if serious discontent arises. 1NCs will (and do) resist all changes, but our national interest demands that we be open to the kind of change which assures long-term friendship and trade. The pursuit of national interest would assure 
administration of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and 
-The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opimon of a majority of Box Q Noire Dame, IN 46JJ6 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail-newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community, ofthe University ofNotre Dame dulac and the free expression of varying and Saint Mary's College. It docs not opinions on campus, through letters, is 
·necessarily reflect the policies of 'the·-·-enc-ouraged.---· ·--· ·-·-· · ---·-·­
recognition of the peoples' right to self­determination. 
~Cs can provid.e useful ~nd necessa~y services to developmg countnes, but their activities· have often run counter to our national interests. As the U.S. government has decreased its aid to Chile in protest of repression and Pinochet's refusal to extradite agents accused. of killin~ Orlando Letelier and Ronnie Moffet m Washmgton, the Chase Manhattan Bank has filled the void with massive loans, und~rcuttir,tg the eff":ct o~ our gove~?ment'.~ foreign poltcy. 1NCs, m their quest for stable governments and high profits often support repressive regimes and thus a~gravate the discontent of the population, assisting in the government's downfall to the detriment of our national interests. If Chilean discontent erupts into an anti-:anierican revolution, it will be due 
mpart to Chase's actions. While 1NCs ideally consider these ramifications of their activity, their profit considerations outweigh long-term goals. 
Few would disagree with Prof. Norling's 
statement that there are brutal regimes on the right and left of the political spectrum. Only marxists of the extreme left (such as Angela Davis) ~upport t.he regimes o~ Eastern .Europe. or the Sov.Iet .mvaston ?f Afghantstan .. It IS Rus~Ian expans1omsm (whtch Prof. Nor~mg certa~nly must know predates the commumst revolution) which must be checked, but not at the expense of self-determination for the "free" world. Despite Pr?f.. Norli~~·s implication, we h.ave ~ot heard any hber~ls suppor~ Pol Pot? I.di f\,mm, or Nguema Macias; most, m fact, JOlll tn the ,1 chorus ofoutr~g~. No one says I~an is b~tter off ,under Khomeim, but Prof. .Norhng cant deny ,that the Ay~tollah's regiihe is a political 
~ 

backlash agamst the Shah and the U.S. 
1

Complaints arise against the excesses of the 
1

"friends" of the U.S. for several reasons. 
1 

. Why should the U.S. support these repressive 
1 

regimes Prof. Norling calls our "friends"? It is 1 r.')t in our self-interest since they will not last --1 as we have seen in countless cases, from 1 Batista's Cuba to Iran and Nicara~ua. 1 
Furthermore, why does Prof. Norling include 1 the Philippines of Marcos and Pinochet's Chile as part of the free world? Describing these 
countries as free ~s as preposterous as calling Poland a free natton. As citizens opposed to government or business support of these repressive regimes, 
we have a responsibility t\9 protest. 
Editor's Note: Peter Walshe, professor of Government, and Prof Bernard Norling of the Htstory Department will face each other in a debate on world affairs at 8 p.m. tonight in the Grace Hall Pit. The two professors wzll dzscuss "The Role ofthe U.S. and U.S. Corporations in 
World Affairs--Exploitative or Constructive?" The debate U!tll address issues which have been the topic ofseveral editon'al columns and letters appean'ng on The Observer's Editorial page the past two weeks in response to Prof Walshe's initial editorial [Dec. 4]. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-chief ........Rosemary Mills Managing. Editor .......... Diane Wilson Edtton'al Editor .............. Ann Gales Senior Copy Editor ......... M. Onufrak Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis News Editor.. .................. Mark Rust News Editor .. ............... Mike Shields 
SMC News Editor ........ Margie Brassil 
--·· _, ___ ..... 
Sports Editor .................. Mark Perry Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly Photo Editor .............. Doug Christian 
Business Manager ........ Steve Odland Production Manager ..... John McGrath Advertising Manager ........ .Bob Rudy Controller............. .....Kevin Manion Circulation Manager ...... Greg Hedges 




ITAPPA KEGGA:ND's Own Animal House 



Features 
Nosferatu the Vampyre 
Directed by Werner Herzog 
Starring Klaus Kinski, Isabelle Adjani, BronoGanz 
As long as he has box office appeal, the Count of Transylvania is eternally doomed to chomp on the necks of the unlucky and/or unwary for the benefit of the movie-going public. Recent films, outstanding only in their mediocrity, have not done him much justice. Happily, German director Werner Herzog has restored elegance and terror to the celluloid Dracula with his latest film ''Nosferatu the Yampyre.'' 
Herzog, whose previous films in­clude such critically acclaimed works as "Signs of Life", "Aguirre, the Wrath of God", and "Stroszek" is deeply indebted to F. W. MURNAU and his 1923 classic ''Nosferatu: Symphony of Horrors''. Murnau's Nosferatu was no urbane Hungarian nobleman, but rather a spectre of the totalitarian threat menacing the Germany of the Weimar Republic, a gruesome creature with bat-like ears, over-sized incisors, and a death-pale, emanciated face. Herzog retains the gruesome physique (including the five-inch fingernails), but his Nosfer­journeys to Transylvania where once atu is a pathetic, impotent victim of again he is warned against the Count, 
this own immortality, trapped and this time by the local innkeeper. But 
frustrated by his inability to die. ever faithful to his commission, he To create his plot, Herzog (who braves all obstacles, arrives at the also wrote the screenplay) weaves Count's castle, sells the very mac­
together strands of the Bram Stoker abre nobleman the mansion, and for novel, the Murnau film and Teutonic 
his trouble, becomes the Count's first legend. Real estate agent Jonathan 
VICtim. 

Harker is assigned the thankless task Nosferatu, meanwhile, has con­of travelling to Transylvania to ceived a blood-lust for Harker's wife deliver the deed to a run-down Lucy ("What a lovely throat she mansion on the outskirts of his native has", he exclaims ·o.~pon seeing the city to a certain Count Dracula. miniature Jona than carris:s with Ignoring the fearful premonitions of him). He embarks upon a ship bound hts beautiful wife Lucy, Jonathan for Harker's native city (located 
Monday, January 28, 1980 -page 8 
disgust, revulsion, and yes, even lust with his fiercely intelligent portrayal of the pitiful Nosferatu. 
The performance of the twenty­three year old French actress Isabelle Adjani as Lucy Harker is no less remarkable. So understated is her portrayal that we scarcely recognize the evolution that takes place in 
·Lucy's character: a shy, fearful girl 
.at the beginning of the film, adversity transforms her into a woman of immense courage and strength (it's not everybody who is willing to go to bed with a vampire to save human­ity). Bruno Ganz rounds out the cast as the hapless Jonathan Harker, a conscientious, decent clod who only wanted to earn some extra money to buy his wife a new house, and who instead becomes the real victim of Nosferatu's legacy of darkness. 
Supporting the cast is an equall)' talented crew of technicians. Parti­cularly outstanding is the cinemato­graphy of J org Schmidt-Reirwein whose gentle blend of earth colors (browns, beiges, forest greens) and soft, almost hazy lighting creates a visually beautiful film. The sets and costume design prove the maxim that less is definitely more: the simple designs and colors complement the subtle camera work. Finally, very effective incidental music (Wagner's "Rheingold" and Gounod's "Sanc­tus" did much to underscore the theme of innocence being m~naced somewhere in German-speakint, by evil. There is also symbolism Europe) taking with him plague galore for those who like to search for 
infested rats that s~;>read disease and hidden meanings; frankly, this critic death among the ctty's inhabitants. was enjoying being scared out of her Lucy Harker, who has read her wits too much to be bothered with ir. husband's journal and knows the In "Nosferatu the Vampyre", Her­cause of the havoc that surrounds zog once again demonstrates his her, must fight a lonely battle against genius both as an existential intel­the phantom of the night. lectual and as an entertainer. 
Outstanding performances by an "Nosferatu" is a film that can be 
excellent cast .evitalize this by now appreciated on any level, and whet­rather cliched story. German actor her it is approached as a ''serious Klaus Kinski, whose mobile face statement" or a popcorn thriller, it 
conveys more emotion in a single engages both the mind and the heart glance than most actors can expres~ in a page of dialogue, evokes pity, Kate Farrell 
"I think, therefore, I dn'nk. " ·-motto, ITK 
As I was quietly strolling back to my 
humble abode last Friday eveningon 
the South Quad, I was intercepted 
bc:hind Badin by a motley crew of 
ski-masked thugs. One of them put a 
loaded bottle ofHeineken to my head 
while another blindfolded me. 

"Hey fellas, there's been some 
mistake.'' 

"Quiet, you knave. We know who 
you are. Our Minister of Propa~anda 
says if we are to make a signrficant 
impact, we have to kidnap you for 
publicity purposes. You're Stewart, 
right?" 

"Yeah, but I ain't no Iranian 
either." 
"Shut up, and follow us." 

And I did, much to my delight and 
subsequent enlightenment. 

.John Belushi, watch out. Notre Dame's version of a Catholic Animal House has finally arrived on the South Quad. Happy days are here agatn. 
What ensued was one of the wackiest nights, and incontestably the best damn partying in my two years at du Lac. Despite popular administrative doubletalk to the contrary, fraternity is alive and kicking. Notre Da.ne's onliest1 I Tappa Kegga, is kicking up a storm in one of the more reputable halls on campus. Due to their notorious reputation, the result of innumerable orgiastic parties and midnight sallies into the local South Bend community, I am sworn to secrecy as to the exact location of this group of ribald,, 
raunchy hedonists. 

Besides, if I slander their hall, these hearty revellers persuasively convinced me of my certain demise upon publication. 
Hey, I enjoy life. Not to mention the fact that I Tappa Kegga is sponsoring it's biggest bash of the year this Friday. And I'm invited. I wouldn't mtss tt for the world. 
Their dramatic kidnapping brought me to their inner sanctum, where a 
worship service soon commenced. A candle was lit, and placed upon the holy of holies, the KEG. And what a beautiful silver, cool KEG it was! All 25 members ofITK knelt in adoration on one knee, then piously recited the 
Prayer ofInebnation: 
''Our KEG, who art zn thy Frathouse Hallowed by they head. ' Th_y foam wz/1 come Thy wz/1 be done . On the jlo~r, as it is whzle standing. Grve us thzs day our dazly buzz 
Andforgive us our wuffs As _we forgive those who wulfed agaznst us Lead us not mto delzn.um But deliver us from sobrietyAmen.'' 
. The party began at 1:45am, lasting ttl! after 5. Rank exhibitionism was the order of the evening, as twelve members did a live jam session of Boston's More Than A Feeling. 
ITK's rendition was more exciting than Boston's show last March at the ACC. 
Then the fun began. Brother Hop-a-long proved his divinity by consuming a large mug of beer while 
standing on his head. During this 
feat; I noticed his ankle was in a cast. 
Someone informed me it was broken. 
For an encore, Brother Hop bit a full 
can of beer in half, and sucked down 
the contents with the ease of Jean 
Claude Killy skiing the ·slopes of 
Aspen. He never wasted a drop. 
That's conservation! 
ITK was the brainchild of Brother 
Puno, who conceived the idea over 
the summer during a drunken stupor 
that landed him in the gutter of NY's 
Bowery district. He brought his 
Messianic message of salvation via 
inebriation to the socially deprived of 
du Lac. Although the rector 
considers him a prophet of perdition, 
his followers believe him to be an 
apostle of assininity · and therefore 
worthy of deification. 
The leaders ofITK say that unity of 
the section's members has been a 
primary benefit of forming the 
fraternity. Once th~ boys approved, 
shirts were 2!dered, saying "ITK-­
Notre Dame's Only Real Frat." But 
the real reason for their over­whelming success is because the frat has fun. ITK already has done more to eradicate boredom at du Lac than any group on campus, with the possible exception of the Chess Club. 
Recently, the leaders ordered a pleasure lobotomy on rhe most boring member of the secuon. The one time pre-med abandoned his studres. converted to Islam and led a raid on nearby Bethel College, where the President's sign was ceremoniously abducted. Now it is a cherished momento of ITK. 
In addition, an Iranian Task Force 
Christopher A. Stewart 
was established, which intends to free the hostages by dropping frozen kegs on the students in Tehran. 
Halloween saw an ITK strike force liberate 25 well-lit pumpkins throug­out the South Bend community. The attack was strangely similar to the Israeli Entebbe raid of '76. 
One massive assault was registered in Azat's Restaurant, where a clandestine ITK operation deployed 2 megaton pancakes, a host of sugar packets and soggy eggs against the dour forces of perfidy (the management). 
One brooding Brother, with a 3. 7 cum, has a bizarre penchant for indiscrimin~tely assaulting innoc~nt, unsuspecting water fountatns. Legend has it that the Campaign for Notre Dame, wdl over its original goal of $130 million, is raising the extra moola to compensate for the occasional excess of frustrated members of ITK. This frustration is rooted in the social, sexual and ·•cademic ambience of ND, according to high ranking officials of ITK. 
To remedy this situation, !TK is sponsoring upcoming trips to nearby universities m Ohio and Michigan which have more appealing female populations. ~he ~adical frir.tge of ITK rs encouragmg stster soronttes to form. To date, sororities an: planned in Badin, Lewis, McCandless. Regina and Ly.ons. In men's dorms, Morrissey's left wmg is initiating it's own frat. lts Name? I FELT A THIGH. 
The revolution, mes freres et soeurs, is here. Long live I TAPPA KEGGA, Notre Dame's first frat. See you ,Friday. 

The Observer Monday, January 28, 1980 -page 9 

In a Style to Which We are 
Fr. Bill Toohey
Not Accoustomed 


Recently, during a trip south of of God." where I'm working, I was escorted For years people have tried to down the ''richest street in the escape the obvious meaning ofJesus' world'' --North Rodeo Drive, Beverly words. But, as Chesterton once put Hills--with its parade of super-exclu­it, we can commission our most sive shops: Gucci; Giorgio, Saint ingenious manufacturer to produce Laurent, Bihan ("By appointment the world's largest needle and our only''), Vidal Sassoon, Elizabeth explorers to search out the smallest Arden, Van Cleef & Arpels. I camel, and still it will not help very couldn't help but wonder for how . much our effort to escape from the many students this street would full import of Jesus' declaration epitomize the meaning of success. about the impossibility of a . rich For how many, I asked myself, does person achieving salvation. "How this world of Mercedes and minks miserable for you who are rich, for represent the life style for which they you have had all your comforts'' will strive? (Luke 6,24). 
Perhaps you've heard the story of Living under the mythology of that the man who is having trouble time, which held that riches and getting through the gate of heaven. wealth were signs of God's favor, th~ It seems he is hard pressed to come disciples were startled to hear Jesus 
up with evidence of a single good say that not only are riches and deed he did during his whole hfe. wealth not a sign of the Father's Finally, he retails with ,. ubiliation pleasure but a serious obstacle to that he once gave to a coli ection for entering the kingdom. 
the poor. The angel at the gate The disciples said to Jesus, ''If this 
leaves to seek consultation, then is so, then who can possibly be returns to say, "That is correct; we saved?'' Jesus looked them straight found the record of your contribution, in the eye and replied, "Humanly 
but we decided to give you your speaking, it is impossible, but with nickel back and tell you to go to God anything is possible." We have hell!" often misinterpreted Jesus' state­ment, proposing that He meant that
On the other hand, I wondered, how by a miracle it would be possible for amany will make a decision for a much rich man to remain rich and still entermore simple life style, in accordance heaven. But)esus isn't saying this atwith their sense of solidarity with all. When He refers to the impossi­poor of the world? It is, of course, a ble becoming possible through God's decision for life or death. 
help, He means that though it is so 
There might be a legitimate objec­extremely difficult for us to free tion to this story, since even a cup of ourselves from the wealth and riches cold water is promised a reward; still, to which we are so attached, we can, this doesn't lessen the shattering with God's strengthening Spirit, do impact of God's teaching about what otherwise would be out of the riches. Jesus is so vehement in His question. pronouncement against wealth that God's comments on . wealth and He claims it is morally impossible for riches as an obstacle to salvation a rich person to be saved. So confront us with a very clear and hard impossible is it, as a matter of fact, and highly unpoJ?ular teaching. that "a camel could more easily Anyone who has tned to preach this 
squeeze through the eye of a needle aspect of the Gospel in a university than a rich man get into the kingdom setting can tell you about the cold 
Kramer vs. Kramer: 



The Challenge To Be 
Christopher A. Stewart 
There are moments in film when a viewer realizes that what is being 
witnessed is an epochal event, a breathtakingly momentous experience. Such 
artistic power, beauty and realism has rarely been captured in a more 
convincing manner than in the movie "Kramer vs. Kramer." 
For a full 20 minutes after the film's electrifying climax, I was speechless, 
utterly transfixed by the sheer force of a film whose theme--divorce, and the 
ensuing court battle over a child-_-is so common as to be uninspiring. 
Not so ''Kramer vs. Kramer.'' Here we witness the comic/tragic aspects of 
people, marriage, parenting, the Madison Ave. rat race, friendship, and the 
crushing paradoxes and ironies inherent in life. We see with vivid clarity the 
awesome price people will pay for freedom and love, and how they will stop at 
nothing to achieve their ends, in this case custody of a child. ' 
Ted Kramer (Dustin Hoffman) is the advertising executive on the up and 
up. While he's out making a living, he's completely forfeited his 
commitment to his wife joanna (Meryl Streep) and son Billy Gustin Henry). 
Describing Ted as a workaholic is an understatement, since he realizes his job 
is a "25 hour a day, eight days a week" endeavor. 
However, Joanna is not your typical "grin and bear it" wife. Realizing the 
marriage she's in to be hopeless, she abandons her family in a search for self, 
heading for the West Coast where she'll undergo analysis and stay for the 
next 15 months. Before leaving, she relinquishes her American Express and 
Bloomingdale's credit cards to Ted, so the audience knows this woman is 
serious. Life with~ut the acco_utrements of Blool?ingdale's can be a bitch.. 
Ted is shocked Into becommg daddy to a chtld he barely knows. Thts 
development is poignantly captured in the schoolyard scene the morning after 
mommy left home. Just before dumping the child with a school monitor, Ted 
1oqutres, "What grade are yo~ in?" Nice g<_>ing, T~d. . 
For the next hour, Ted dommated the actiOn, trymg to combme the -dual 
role of mommy/daddy while pleasing th~ .heartless corpo~ate business 
establishment. His hard-nosed, uncompromtsmg boss had earher suggested 
to Ted that he send the boy to live with relatives. Ted refused, a decision 
which added to the movie's frequently riveting scenes, but ultimately cost 
h1m h1s job. . . . 
The development of the relau<?nsh1p .and ~ove betw~en fat~er and so~ 1s 
nothing short of masterful. Combmed wtth th1s energetically ~tre~ted P.lot 1s a 
b~.lltant and vigorously endeanng sequence of scenes. Begmnmg wtth the 
h1larious breakfast scene in which Ted gamely attempts to make mashed 
French toast, the scenes evoke all the anxieti and joy that go with being' a .. parc:_nt. 
reception it frequently gets from I've only lately discovered the real college students, many of whom difference between real giving and a (let's face it) come from very well-to­mere distribution of surplus. A ' do families and do not easily tolerate careful study of Jesus' story about any deviations while away at college the widow who put her last two coins from the "good" life to which they into the treasury reveals that the are accustomed. One of our priests offering that comes from superfluity, was nervy enou~h a~ a ~ecent ~orm and -does not actually deprive the liturgy to mention 10 hts homtly: giver of a part of himself, is of little 
"You've heard it said that there are account . 
no atheists in fox-holes; it may also It makes you wonder how many be true that there are no Christians in times in your whole life you've Cadillacs." The sizzling stares he actually given-, in the sense that it has got from several in the congregation truly meant a sacrifice. I was could have melted rocks. reflecting on this the last time I returned from having contributed
Why does Jesus say what He does? 
some clothing to the Thanksgiving
Is it because He is trying to promote 
drive. I realized to •ny horror that I
poverty (when we've got a war 
had gone through my wardrobe with
'against it!) for its own sake, or 
a selection process limited to two
because He is trying to suggest 
convenient categories. First of all,
distrust and contempt for the goods 
there was the obvious category of
of this world and material posses­
things I no longer used and really
sions in general? None of these. 
didn't want. Then there was the
Jesus presents a very positive Gos­
category that cost me a tiny bit--the
pel; and says what He ,does abo_ut 
clothes I might have worn on a future
riches because it follows necessanly 
occasion but wouldn't actually miss
from the commandment of love. It 
all that much. But I never got around 
has to be impossible for a rich person 
to a third category. I never gave
to enter heaven, for if one is to gain 
anything that I sincerely wanted to
eternal life she must love her 
keep. I came back from this exercise
neighbor; acd when you do that, you 
in "giving" only to realize that I
don't have riches left over--not the 
hadn't truly given at all! I merely
way things are in today's world, 
dispensed with my surplus.
anyway. 
"To whom will all this piled-up
Being without riches and wealth 
wealth of yours go?'' God asked the
becomes an unavoidable conse­
rich man who had hoarded his goods
quence. The whole thrust is outward, 
in barns. The man was lost, for in
directed toward the need of others. A 
turning away from others in need, he
person who does this inevitably finds 
had turned away from the God of 
that it just so happens that whenJou 
salvation. ''This is the way it works 
try to be a Christian, you don't en u_p 
with the person who grows rich for
with riches. The Gospel is a call to 
himself instead of growing rich in the 
gratuitously share with others, in the 
sight of God" (Luke 12,21). A 
name ofJesus, the material goods we 
sobering message for our times.
have--sharing them especially with 
those who most need them. 
Even should we see this, however, Editor's Note: Fr. Toohey sent this and want to do something, our column to us from Berkeley, where response may not come out at a he is spending a two-month sabbati­radical enough level. For example, cal, finishing a book. 
Too numerous to do justice to in this brief vnopsis, some of the highlights 
include: the traumatic park scene, when Billy is injured and Ted races him to a crosstown hospital dtsregarding his own safety as he bolts out into Fifth and Park Avenue traffic; the dinner confrontation over chocolate chip ice cream; B!lly meeti~g Phylis, ~ed's l?,ver, a~ the bathroom door, nakedv1.nd asked her 'Do you hke fned chtcken? ; Ted s relentless search for a new )ob, particularly the confrontational moment with his boss-to-be in which Ted 
demands an immediate response to his job inquiry. He got it. 
It was confrontational fllm at its sizzling, realistic best. It's moments like 
these when all the pretentious airs and establishmentarian etiquette is 
judiciously disc~ded because of some overriding concern, in this {;ase Ted's 
child. His desperation was chilling; it needed attention and resolution then 
and there in that office, not later. . 
The court scenes were shattering, dericting ·the demise of a relationship 
once thought to be viable and fruitfu . Bur-there were some touching 
moments: Ted's lawyer (Howard Duff) hounding Joanna into confessing her 
failure as a mother, while Ted shakes his head at her dlinghe: .he is not; red 
being grilled about his firing and inconstancy at work It was then thatJoanna 
began to see that Ted, too, has sweated and suffered for Billy with a passion 
not unlike her own. 
The court's decision is crushing to Ted and Billy. The park scene, when 
Billy is told the result, is simply devastating ("Daddy, if you get lonesome, 
you call me up, OK?"). If tears don't come to your eyes by then, you're either 
a closet sadist or emotionally dead. From the park, the film catapults back to 
the apartment for the final breakfast scene, a subdued affair in striking 
contrast to the original fiasco. This one is controlled, almost perfect. Father 
and. :~pn toge_ther, in unison. Soon to be rended by a grim ,twist of fate. 
The denouement is as fitting as it is tragic, a vindication to the spirits of all 
involved. It manifests and accentuates the human spirit in all its 
vulnerability, strength, and ambiguity. It is an ending worthy of life, for it 
ennobles rather than demeans. It uplifts while it remains humble. 
Dustin Hoffman is magnificent. He renders a penetrating, superb 
performance. If he doesn't win the Oscar, I'll stop drinking Perrier. Meryl 
Streep is marvelously affecting, especially in her courtroom scenes, and 
likewise deserves kudos of the hi~hest order. Justin Henry is the guilessly 
spunkv child who is sure to wm your hearts. Jane Alexander played 
Margaret, friend to both Ted and Joanna, probably the most underrated role 
ohhe film, and did quite a splendid job. 
The painstaking adjustments to the modern world, by parent and child, is 
captured in ''Kramer vs.Kramer. '' We learn that women aren't the only-ones 
being liberated in this film; so are men. Men like Ted, freed from his 
obsessive preoccupation with advancement and success to see his need to love 
others, and be loved by l.d:H~m in return. And Billy, symbol of children 
everywhere: captives of warring parents suffering the indignities of 
emotional and psychological ping-pong which ultimately determines the .beauty of ugliness of tbc1r future lives. · 
Fortunately, in "Kramer vs. Kramer" the ugliness was transcended by­
love in the end. Everyone didn't live happily ever after, but a child's life )VaS. 
salvaged from the ravages of 2 adults whose lives passed them by like 2 ships 
in the night . 

~--­

The Observer Monday, January 28, 1980-page 10 

Snow-co-vered grounds and dropping temperatures cannot kt'eP an avid jogger from his dazly rounds. [photo by John Macor] 
The facts are startling. Experts estimate that about half of all automobile occu­pant fatalities last year might have been avoided if the people had been wearing seat belts. That's because injuries occur when the car stops abruptly and the occupants are thrown against the car's interior. Belts prevent this. 
Many people say they seat belts protect passengers from severe injuries, allowing them to escape more quickly.· Another popular rationaliza­tion: you'll be saved by being thrown clear of the car. Here again, research has proved that to be untrue-you are almost always safer inside the car. 
Some people use seat belts for highway driving, 
taught," Batill explained. 

An area of confusion for faculty members is the relative 
CUSTOMER INFORMATION FROM GENERAL MOTORS 
'
BOW TO SAVE YOUR LIFE AND TBE ONE NEXT TO YOU 
OVERCOMING YOUR PSYCHOLOGICAL RESISTANCE TO SEAT BELTS MAY BE THE KEY. 

the government has directed that some form of passive restraint-one that doesn't require any action by the oc­cupant-be built into every car by the 1984 model year. GM 1s offering one. such restraint-a new type of auto­matic belt-as an option on the 1980 Chevette to gain insight into its public acceptance. 
By the 1982 model year, 

and 
the 
if 
re­

Goodpaster noted that the Faculty Senate cannot do much about this, but that they will investigate the issue and try to develop better rapport between professors and the administra­tion so that professors can know where they stand. 
Two other issues of concern are salaries and retirement. Most of the faculty are discon­tent with their present salaries and do not feel they are keeping up with inflation, Goodp_aster said. 
The survey showed that 67 percent of faculty members think retirement· should not be confined to a~e. Goodpaster explained, ''Rtght now the re­tirement age is 65. In 1982, it will be 70. Most professors think retirement should come when the teacher is no longer an asset at the University.'' He added that this would be diffi­cult to determine. 
Goodpaster noted that ques­tions dealing with the Catholic character of the University Ret­ted a surprising result. Sixty percent disagreed with the 
l 
L -------------­
~----­

we must begin putting pas­sive restraints in all full-size cars and, eventually, into the entire fleet. But until you purchase one of these cars of the future, you can protect yourself and others by using seat belts and urging your family and friends to follow your example. 
At GM, we're very con­cerned about safety. So please fasten your seat belt, because even the best driver in the world can't predict what another driver will do. 
This advertisement is part of our corl'tinuing effort to give cus­tamers useful information about their cars and trucks and the company that builds them. 


General Motors 
People building transportation to serve people 
statement that the Catholic 
character of the University is 
eroding. Eighty percent said a 
professor's Catholicism should 
not be a factor in tenure, and 61 
percent said Catholicism should 
play no part in hirittg practices . 
"I don't know what to make of 

these results except that there 
is confusion among the faculty 
about the Cathohc nature of 
Notre Dame," Goodpaster said. 
"More faculty than most realize are not concerned about the Catholic character and this is a Catholic school. " 
The question that received the highest positive concensus dealt with making the senior year more serious. Ninety percent of the faculty agreed with that statement. 
Batill explained, "This ques­tion was stacked to be answered yes." Therefore, he said, it was an irrelevant question and the Senate Faculty will not act on it. Batill did note, however, that the senior death march was not the kind of thing that you want to see young men and women doing a few months before they go out in the real world.'' 
The reason for the faculty survey, Goodpaster explained, was to focus the Senate on the issues of the faculty at lar~e. The Senate has been criticized in the past as not being representative of the faculty. 
"Part of my leadership is to make this false," Good .,aster said. ---­
know the facts, but they still 
don't wear belts. Their reasons range all over the lot: seat belts are troublesome to put on, they are uncomfortable, or they wrinkle your clothes. Some people even think getting hurt or killed in a car accident is a question of fate; and therefore, seat belts don't matter. 
If you're one of those people who don't use belts for one reason or another, please thinkcarefullyaboutyourmo­tivations. Are your objections to seat belts based on the facts or on rationalizations? 
Here are a few of the common rationalizations. 
Many people say they are afraid of being trapped in· a car by a seat belt. In fact, in the vast majority of cases, but rationalize it's not worth the trouble to buckle up for short trips. The numbers tell a different story: 80% of all automobile accidents causing 
. injury or death involve cars traveling under 40 miles per hour. And three quarters of all collisions happen less than 25 miles from the driver's home. 
When you're the driver, you have the psychological authority to convince all of the passengers that they should wear seatbelts. It has been shown that in a car, the driver is considered to be an authority figure. A simple reminder from you may help save someone's life. And please remember children can be severely injured in automobile accidents, too, Make sure Child Restraint Systems are used for children who aren't old enough to use regular seat belts. 
Because so many people still don't use their seat belts, 
~1.
,, 
_j
'nte Observer Monday, January 28, 1980-page 11· 

Saint Mary's sponsors 'Couples' w-orkshop 


by Mary Leavitt StaffReporter 

Saint Mary's Counseling and Career Development Center is sponsoring a workshop entitled "Couples" starting Feb. 5. 
Couples steadily dating with a possible eye towards marriage, couples who are engaged, couples who are living together· and couples who are married ·are the types of commitments the workshop is geared to 
explore. 
The group will meet once a 
week for eight weeks. Each 
session will last approximately 
rwo hours. All those who are 
enrolled in the workshop will be 
given 1 credit hour in renumer­
ation for participating. 
Because of the nature of the 

group, a maximum of five 
couples will be allowed to 
participate. The couples will be 
by Maryellen Bradley 

The 28th Annual Junior Parents' Weekend is expected to be as successful as it was last year in terms of attendance and activities. "We are ahead of schedule in comparison to last year,'' said Weekend Chairman 
Jim Riedman. 
Despite an incomplete com­puter listing which omitted the names of 50-75 juniors, approx­imately 1800 returns from parents have come in. Students whose parents have not re­ceived packets may pick them up in the Student Activities Office. 
Most of the original problems have been resolved. The 
"'rwmmittee hopes to surpass last year's attendance record of 2100. Finance Chairman Steve Burgoon is contacting students who forgot to sign checks or wrote in the wrong amount. Burgoon reminds students that refunds are available for those who have paid, but can no longer attend the activities. He urges these students to notify the committee at least one week before the Weekend, Feb. 22­24. Registration Chairman Keith Melaragno assures juniors whose parents will be arriving late that they can register at the Cocktail Dance Friday evening or Saturday afternoon at LaFortune. A landscape company will decorate Stepan Center for the Cocktail Dance in a garden­party motif. Collegiate ·work­shops will be held within each college Saturday morning. The ) unior Class Mass Saturday at 
6:30 p.m. will be celebrated by 
Concert to beheld 
March25 
Greenwood Consort Concert originally scheduled for Wed­nesday ha..; been postponed until March 25 at 8:15 m the Library Auditorium. 
screened before being admitted into the program. 
The goals of this .workship are in keeping with the rationale for having such a workshop, ac­cording to Tony Campbell, as­sistant director of the Center. 
These goals are: 1) to become more in touch with one's own needs and values; 2) to find out what each person's expecta­tions of marriage are; 3) to explore these expectations with each participant's mate; 4) to develop life skills such as assertiveness and centering; 5) to "explore the decision making process berween each couple; and 6) to develop and discuss a marriage contract. 
The workshop will meet from 6-8 p.m. on Tuesday nights startmg February 5. Interested couples should sign up for the program by Wednesday in the State Senator Dan Manion spoke last night before a well-attended organizational meeting Counseling and Career Deve­for the campus Reagan campaign, outlining arguments for supporting Govenor Reagan and lopment Center, SMC. emphasizing the possible national impact of the upcoming Mock Republican Convention. 
[photo by John Macor] 
============================================= 
Junior Parents Weekend 



Numerous activities promise success 
BernardRostker heads Selective Service 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The man charged with carrying 
out Prestdent Carter's man­date to reinstate draft registra­tion was an Army officer during the Vietnam war with a desk job in Washington. 
Bernard Rostker, 35, the new director of the Selective Service System, was trained to be a tank commander but was as­signed to work in the office of an assistant secretary of de­fense in the Pentagon during his rwo years of active duty berween 1968 and 1970. 
Asked in a telephone interview why he didn't serve in Vietnam, Rostker said, "I don't know. I was a graduate student finish­ing up my Ph.D. in economics. I'm sure that had an impact. They (at the Pentagon) were interested in bright young fel­lows.'' 
Did he consider volunteering for Vietnam duty? 
"I was in the service, Rostker said, his voice rising. ''I went where I was told to go. I served. I did not go to Vietnam. I would have gone wherever they sent me." 
Rostker, who grew up in the Bronx, was a member of the Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) as a student at New York University and was com­missioned a lieutenant upon graduation. During his military service and in the decade since then, he has specialized in military manpower problems. 
Last fall, at a time when Carter was saying he had no plans to register anyone, Rostker took over as head of the Selective Service, an agency with only 98 employees -tiny by Washing­ton standards -and a budget of $7 million. 
Carter plans to get the agency an immediate $10 million to carry out his new plan, and the agency anticipates seeking as much as $22 million for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. 
Since last November, Rostker said, he has spent his time rebuilding an emergency-pre­paredness system for draft registration, just in case it became necessary. 
It wasn't until late Wednesday afternoon that Rostker learned for sure that his sleepy little agency would be tossed a political hot potato. 
Rostker said he had hints last week that Carter was consider­ing reinstating the draft. But he didn't get the final word until a few hours before Carter used his State of the Union address to inform the rest of the nation of his plan. 
Rostker said he has not met with Carter-or anyone from the White House to discuss the complexities ofstarting up draft registration. 
Instead, he said, he has work­_ed with the task force preparing a report for Congress, due Feb. 9, on various aspects of the Selective Service System. 
By law, all males aged 18 to 26 are eligible for the draft -and they number about 16 million. 
The president has legal au­thority to order a draft registra­tion, but he would neea con­gressional approval to authorize registering women. 
ANY STUDENT INTERESTED? 
IN THE POSITION OF 
,~,_c~'~f ~o\'l-''" 
-o~~\'l~O' \9roo-%\ e 
0v,s~t-.. fO\'l ~ 
contact ROSEMARY 7471 

(applkations due FEB I) 

RIVER CITY RECORDS PRESENTS 

COLLECTOR'S SHOW AND SALE 
thousands and thousands of cut-outs,
oldies, budget lp's, special imports and 
hard-to-find albums 
ooster sale-a few of the huge 4X4 posterswill be sold to start the semester off tyl



rn s e 

Steve Dctll's "Ayatollah" 45 is available 
-listen to the River Citv ads on wlup-fm this weekend, and visit our booth at the 


LQQP-Fest; Feb. 2&3
RIVER CITY RECORDS 50970 U.S. 31 NORTH 3 MILES NORTH OF CAMPUS 


at the Amphitheater in 
277-4242 


chicago 



Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, with Fr. John VanWolvear present­ing the homily with the Chapel Choi_r and guitarists providing musiC. 
Fr. Hesburgh will speak at the President's Dinner at 8:00p.m. Saturday. Juniors may offer their parents a taste ofdorm life at each dorm's informal recep­tion following the Dinner. 
Junior Tim Koegel plans to expose his parents to other aspects of a student's life, ''I'd like to take my parents out to the bars." 
The last event of the weekend will be the Closing Breakfast at 
9:30 a.m. Sunday. Elizabeth Christman, assistant professor of American Studies, will ad­dress the parents and students. 
--~.........................................__.__ -----.:~--""':"'""--· .. ----·--... -·....... ----..-........ -·-· ... ------~ .. --..... _.. " 
. 
The Observer -Sports Monday, January 28, 1980 -page 12 
... Logan 

[continued from page 16] 
chased an icing call on the Huskies into the right corner of the Irish zone. DeNat dealt LuCJa a vicious checkd"ust as the whistle sounded, an the force of Lucia· s helmet hitting the plexiglas shattered the pane of glass. Despite what many felt was obvious evidence littered on the ice. referee Larry Th01na~. who was on top of the " 1w. r;~ !l~d nothing and that lvtr Smith fuming. 
The rd"crees decided to hold th{" uHermission while the pii"Xrglass was bt>ing replaced, and the remammg 4:19 was added on to the second period. 
"We could have quit right there," said Smith, "but we , decided to turn things around and play all the harder. I was 
pleas.~d  to  see  us  turn like  
that.  
Meredith  and  Jeff  Perry  

scored within six seconds of each other in the final two minutes to make it 3-3 after the first period. Heavy hitting abounded, as the memory of DeNat's check lingered; and referees Thomas and Tom O'Brien almost let the game get out of hand. But when the score was evened, both teams concentrated on scoring. 
Logan and DeNat exchanged second period goals to make it 4-4~ but the Irish exploded for three unanswered tallies in the third to put the game out or reach. Logan scored at 4:23, Michalek beat MTU's Frank Krieber at 12:34 and Logan notched his third career hat trick -his sixth goal of the series-at 14:16 to make it 7-4. 
Irish goalie Dave Laurion and Krieber made 26 saves each. 
• • • Matvey 
[continued from page 16] 
nl senwr co-ca~;>tain Jane Polit­Jski inro the Insh line-up, and rhe ream began to cltck. A basket by Politiski, and two by Matvt'y tied the game, and then two free throws by Politiski gave the Irish a lead it would never relinguish, 53-51, with '):)(J remammg. Petro's troops continually widened their mar­gin until with 2:10 left in the game, Molly Cashman's two free throws gave them their biggest spread, 75-63. 
"You can't give up 76 points and say you played a good defensive ballgame," stated Irish assistant Bob Scott after the contest. 
As for Matvey, she was pleased with her performance, but agreed with her coaches about the over-all team play. 
''I just seemed to have the right touch yesterday," said Matvey. "My shots were just going in. But I did make some mistakes on defense-we aU did-that's what really hurt us. 
I I I I l I I I I I I I 
~ 
E~GINEERS AND COMPUTER SCIENCE GRADS: 
HERE'S ~'"OUR CHANCE TO PUT WIIAT Y<lU'VE LEARNED TO WORK. 

YES. as a company we're a leader in fast, exciting fields ... aircraft, mis­siles, spacecraft, electronics, auto­mation, and health services. But we also realize that our leadership de­pends on how fast our people grow. 
SO, our goal is to provide oppor­tunities for future-minded engineers ancJ computer scientists who want to grow right along with a leader. 
!>,NO, we walt to talk to graduating seniors and graduate students about the1r goals. 
IF, you're ready to get your career off the ground, McDonnell Douglas wants to talk to you. Sign up at the Pl~cement Office for a personal in­terview. Here is the date we'll be on campus: 


Tuesday Feb. 5 
/' 

~ 
NICDONNE !..'-. .,.,OUGLAS ~~/~/-­
~ 
Freshman goalie Bob McNamara made 43 saves Fnday night in Notre Dame's 8-5 victory over Michigan Tech. 





PLACEMENT BUREAU 
1/22/llll 

Main Bulldlnc 
JOB INTERVIEWS ARE OPEN TO SENIORS AHO GRADUATE STUDENTS lN THE HAY AND AUGUST CU.SS£5 •••••.. , .ANY WHO HITfJfD TO HAVE INTERVIEWS H\JST HAVE A COMPLETED PROFILE (RECISTRATlotl) ON FILE AT THE PLAClHUfT BURf.AU,., ..•..•REClSTJATIOH, INTERVIEW SIGN-UP SHEETS AND EMPLOYER LinRATtJRE ARE 11'1 ROOH 21], ADt«<NJSTRATIOH IUXi. 
COMP\.ETE EMPL.O'ti!.R SPEClFlCATlONS ON DECREES, JOB TITLES, LOCATIONS .\140 CITIZENSHIP 
ARE GIVEN IN THE SPRING SUPPLEHJ'.:NT THE PLACEMENT KANUAL. 
niE SICN-\l? PERIOD IS FROH 8:00A.M. TO ~:00 P.H., MONDAY TIIROUQI THURSDAY, BEGINNING JANUARY 28 FOR UfTERVIEWS TilE IIJ':EK OP f'EBRUJJIY 4. 
f\.USE NOT'E IMUJI.VIEW \.OC.Jt.TlOMS AT TIW. OF SlClHJl>. 
YOU HUST SlCW FOR YOUR INTERVlDIS PERSONALLY. 
Dltl· AJ.jMtaiCUI' ... 
M..:.....L
..... 
~.. 
Feb. 5 
~ 
Feb. l 
:r;;;:­
~. 
Feb. b 
~ 
Jab. 1 Thun. 
n;~;.~:~t. 

Bunku-Rato Corp. Mph.enol-Mortl\ Mtlr!.can BH tn ME, ElL 
X X 

X Leo Burnett CO!lt!any Inc:. B in Lib. Aru and Bua. Ad. HilA wtth Kkt concern. 
X X 

ctta.e H..nhattan Bank B 1n Zcon. All BaA. 
Euu Group -Unlud Tacl:lnoloslu Cotp 8 in !!, H!, HliO, 
X X 

lAar Siaahr. Inc. Mo. Divhton 
1. 1M in Kl, M!IO. 8 in Milt (only) 
I 

Arthur And.u.n & Co HL\, BM bl HIIO. (Student• an raquaetad to cc.pleta Panon.tl Dau Shaat prior to intarvtw). 
X X 

X Conoco Inc ~Ch... HBA with Ch-htry 115. 
X General Telephon• • Electronica Cor,2 I ia Acct. Jl in Pin with •Jni•~ of U credit houra ln Acct 1ncludln.a Coat Acct. MIA with Acct or .11n 
bk&rd or conctm. 
X X 

HcDon.nall Doualu C:orpoutlon 1M ln IE, M!, AE:, MilO, CE, Phydu, Math, Collp Sri. (C.-pany application r..queat•d prior co inurv1ev). 
X 

CornJn.a Glau Worka MBA with Milt or Fin bkard or cOftctn~. 
ttonaaMo C011pany eH tn Chi:, HE. 
X X X 

PPG Induatrha. lnc I in Cb!, 1:1:, Hl, MElO, Ch-, Ca-p Sci, Acct. 
X 

Ch••tron Procne l:gulJ!!!r!t Dtvhlon 
1. I in fin, Acct. Mt.A owith Tin, Actt bk&rd or coflctrn. 
X X 

C.naraJ Phyatca VJrporatlon 8k in ME, E!., Cocsp Set 
How.et Turbine eo.ponenta Corporation 8ft ln Milt, M!, Chr., 
Howard Needlu T-•n & Baraendolf I lt\ Ct--Tran•pcntat lon, Structur•s, r.nv1ron.ental. 
lndlaaa State Hlahw•r Co..baton 81'1 ln ct. 
I 

kurt SalMon Maoctaua lnc IH In !tl&r Sd. HI, M!.tO. KU. w\th uruluaud t.chnlcal de&ree praferred. 
X X 

t.aSalle N~tional Bank. B In Fin, Mkt, Acct. B tn Econ. 
Motorola, Inc_ IHD ln t:E. 
Trana-rtcan Fr•hht Un••· Inc. AU IBA. 
X X X X 

Untven1tx of Illlnoh. Cud. School of lluainu.s Millin. II ln all dta(' tpltnu, 
Burrouahs Corporat ton MBA. 
X X Gen•ral Tf'lephone ~of JndJ•n• tnc. Jt In !l, Huh. 

ICl AllerlCU Inc.· II In Acct. 
X X Schllllllbergcr Well Servlcf's BH in F.E, HE, Phylllra. 

X X 

Bol! ina CQ!IIpany Btm ln ct, EE, HF., I.E, Engr Scl, tWt, c,.p Set. 
;~n~i~7:!~! lllintJb National Bank and lruat COII!(l.!.Jl..Y. 
~WTt'Jt"fi"n blr.grd or conctrn. 
X X 

~ lleaeerch Cenlcr. Alaoc(l Ch-icCh, Allloco 01] BKD tro ChE. t>hD In Cl•-· 

TI.W O.fn.u Space S!pt... G~ ..., t• n. 
X X X X 

'huraoa AdainUtrar.;ton tt.d1cal C.ntllr­IH b ..,.l d1acipl ta..ea, 
•• c ~ ............ 4° .............;. ...... '.. .....,...... ~ -• ~. &. .. • ...-...-.............. --:--_,.. 
~-------------­
The 9bserver -SportsBoard Monday, 'January 28, 1980 -page 13 

Basketball 
EAST Duke 78, Pittsburgh 69 
G. Washington 81, W. Virginia 75 Georgetown, D.C. 86, American 62 Hafstra 79, Drexel 71 Iowa 82, Holy Cross 67 Long Island U. 66, Army 56, QT. Maine 72, Fordham 63 Niagara 95, St. Bonaventure 92 Penn 84, Richmond 78 Rutgers 75, Duquesne 73 OT St. Francis. Pa. 70, Canislus 60 St. John's, N.Y. 81, Villanova 75 Syracuse 99, Connecticut 89 Temple 72, Manhattan 57 Yale 77. Fairfield 72 
SOUTH Alabama 72, Tennessee 59 Alcorn St. 101, Grambling 86 Centenary 76, Valparaiso 68 
E. Kentucky 84, W. Kentucky 82 Kentucky 56, Georgia 49 Lamar 74, Louisiana Tech 60 Louisiana St. 66, Florida 58 Marquette 80, S. Carolina 65 Mississippi 71, Auburn 54 N. Carolina 73. Clemson 70 Vanderbilt 92, Mississippi St. 74 VirQinia 49, N. Carolina St. 47 Virginia Tech 97, Cincinnati 57 
Wake Forest 67, Georqia Tech 59 
MIDWEST DePaul 105, Evansville 94 Illinois 74, Michigan St. 65 Indiana 69, Purdue 58 Indiana St. 61, W. Texas St. 53 Iowa 80, Minnesota 73 
Iowa St. 69, Oklahoma St. 60 Kansas 75, Colorado 61 Kansas St. 66. Nebraska 64, 2 OT Louisville 66, Florida St. 58 Loyola-Chicago 103, Oral Roberts 74 Northwestern 85, Michigan 82, 3 OT Notre Dame 64, Maryland 63 Ohio St. 70, Virginia 65 Oklahoma 78, Missouri 73 Southern 79, Dayton 70 Wisconsin 72, Ohio St. 71 
SOUTHWEST Arkansas 73, Rice 64 Houston 82. Baylor 71 
Southern Methodist 76, Texas Tech 75 Texas A&M 56, Texas 53 
FAR WEST Arizona St. 97, Arizona 72 Brigham Young 34. Hawaii 33 Cal St. Fullerton 63. Cal-Irvine 62 Nev.-Las Vegas 84, New Mexico 78 Nevada-Reno 72, Idaho 64 New Mexico St. 75, Wichita St. 70 Oregon 77, Stanford 73 oreqon St. 86. California 55 Utah 102, San Diego St. 83 Washington 80, Southern Cal 72 Washington St. 80, UCLA 64 Weber St. 83 Idaho St. 67 
Saturday 
BRADLEY 69, NOTRE DAME 44


Hockey 
WCHASTANDINGS 

400 Medley Relay-BU (Scott Herrell, George
Sunday's NHL Scores 
w L T Vanderhayden, Curht Hahn, Bob Ruble)North Dakota 13 5 0 3:43.4, N D (Glenn Battle, Gary Severyn, DonSt. Louis 6, Winnipeg 6 
Michigan 10 5 1 Casey, Mike Shepardson) 3:43.7.
Pittsburgh 5, Boston 3 

NOTRE DAME 10 8 0 1,0011 Freestyle. Scott Reeves (BU) 9:57.5,
Buffalo 9, Los Angels 1 

Minnesota 12 10 0 Michael Hilger (ND) 10:19.4, Dave Campbell
Washington 7, NY lslanders1 
Col. College 11 10 1 (NO) 10:27.7.
Detroit 7, Quebec 6 

Wisconsin 10 10 0 200 Freestyle • Bryce Unruh (BU) 1:48.1,
Chicago 3, Minnesota 0 

Michigan Tech 8 9 1 John Gibbons (N D) 1:50.6, Paul Schackle
NY Rangers at Colorado, (n) 
Michigan State 8 12 0 ~BU) 1:51.9.
Philadelphia at Edmonton, (n) 
Minn.-Duluth 8 14 0 50 Freestyle· John Komara (ND) :22.6, Thom
Toronto at Vancouver, (n) 

Denver 4 11 1 Krutsch (ND) :22.9, Gregg Wells (BU) :23.3. --------------------------200 Individual Medley· Gary Severyn (ND) 2:02.6, Scott Herrell (BU) 2:05.3, Eric
Sunday's NBA Scores 
Peterson (BU) 2:06.7. 1-meter Diving • Bob Porter (BU) 271.45,

Swimming

Boston 131, San Diego 108 
Paul McGowan (ND) 238.75, Chris Leonard
New York 98, Detroit 93 

(ND) 219.60
New Jersey 128, Chicago 127 
Friday 200 Butterfly -Scott Herrell (Bll) 1:55,don
Atlanta 118, San Antonio 111 
NOTRE DAME 62 NORTHERN ILLINOIS 49 Casey (ND) 1:58.7, Paul Schackle (BU) 2:04.1
Wasington 116, Golden State 107 
1110 Freestyle· Bryce Unruh (BU) :48.5, John
Indiana 123, Cleveland 121 
400 Medley Relay -ND (Glenn Battle, Bob Komora (N D) :49.9, Mike Shepardson (N D)
Phoenix 125, Philadelphia 118 
Fink, Don Casey, Mike Shepardson( 3:38.7 :50.3.
Los Angeles 112, Milwaukee 102 
1,0011 Freestyle -Greg Bohdan (N D) 10:34.9 200 Backstroke -Curht Hahn (BU) 2:01.1, NOTRE DAME 64, MARYLAND 63 2110 Freestyle. John Gibbons (ND( 1:49.8 Louis Bowersox (NO) 2:06.4, Glenn Battle 50 Freestyle-Thom Krutsch (NO) :22.6 (ND) 2:06.7. . MARYLAND (63) King 8 5-5 21, Graham 200 Individual Medley -Gary Severyn (N D 5110 Freestyle -Erid Peterson (BU) 4:51.3, 60-0 12, Williams 52-412, Manning 2 4-4 8, 2:04.0 Dave Campbell (NO) 4:59.6, Mic,ael Hilger
1-meter Diving -Kyle Boji (NI U) 260.25 (ND) 5:00.6
Jackson 2 0-0 4, Morley 0 0-0 0. Totals 26 11-13 63. 200 Butterfly-Larry Buckley (NO) 2:12.3 3-meter Diving • f\'Jb Porter (BU) 265.90, NOTRE DAME (64)--Jackson 6 3-4 15, 100 Freestyle-Mike Shepardson (NO) :50.3 Eietsy Shadley (NDJ 232.65, Paul McGowan 
200 Backstroke-Bill Swift (ND) 2:14.2 (ND) 232.20.
Salinas 22-2 6, Woolridge 6 3-515, Hanzlik 5 
4-6 14, Branning 2 2-2 6, Mitchell 0 0-0, 5011 Freestyle-Bob Fink (NO) 5:07.6 2110 Breaststroke -Doug Davis (BU) 2:19.0,3-meter Diving-Frank Levins (NIU) 269.20
Paxson 22-3 6, Wilcox 00-0 0, Varner 10-0 2, George Vanderhayden (BU) 2:20.7, Gary
200 Breaststroke -Steve McMeans (N IU) Severyn (NO) 2:21.9 ·
andree 0 0-0 0. Totals 24 16-22 64. 2:23.0 (N Dswam exhibition) 4110 Freestyle relay-BU (Bryce Unruh, Ray Fouled out--none. Total fouls--Maryland 400 Freestyle Relay-NIU (Mike Krug, Bob Peresin, Bob Rbule, Eric Peterson) 3:15.8 1
Kohlhase, Kevin Ross, Paul Sivak) 3:24.9 ND(rody Mclaughlin, Mike Shepardson,
15, Notre Dame 17. Technicals--Maryland 
bench, Williams. A-11,345. (NO swam exhibition) Thom Krutsch, John Komora) 3:16.9. 

Tankers split weekend pair 
by Michael Ortman Sports Wn'ter 

You win some, you lose some, and some get rained out. 
The Irish swimmers encount­ered developments on all three fronts this weekend as they dumped Northern Illinois on Friday afternoon, 62-497 lost to midwest power Bradley on Sat­urday, 69-44, and announced that this coming Friday's dual meet with visiting Texas A&M has been cancelled because of travel complications on the part of the Aggies. 
The Huskies arrived Friday with an 18 man roster, almost four times as many as competed against the Irish last winter in Dekalb. Coach Orrville Ker­sten, who had a paltry five swimmers at the close of the 1978-79 season because of in­ternal problems, brought along a strong diving corp but little 
I else as the Irish took every ~wimming event they competed 10. The Northern Illinois meet marked the return of sopho­more Mike Shepardson to the Irish lineup. The Ft. Lauder­dale, Fla. native was thought to be out for the season with severe bursitis in his shoulders. Yet Shepardson surprised ev­eryone, swimming the freestyle leg on the winning 400-yard medley relay team and finish­ing first in the 100-yard free­style in a respectable :50.3 seconds. The atmosphere at the Rock­ne Memorial Pool quickly chan­
...Tracy 
[continued from page 16] 
jumped up and put both hands in the air, makmg sure ~hat I was far enough away that I dido' t get a foul. He kind of cocked back his right arm, and I felt like we had it then cause he was throwing it at the hoop

' instead of shooting it.'' Kin~'s.beave bounced off the right s1de of the backboard, and Phelps had the 200th win of his collegiate coaching career. Notre Dame played without the services of Kelly Tripucka, who was hospitalized on Friday with what is belif'ved to be back SD<l'. "1S. ''\\''hen 1l1~1t 1·· .. ~-·:t team, we just raliK,1 .. :,~;1d 1., .nd did the things wt· i.;;,l ,., do." Phelps said. WitL Tnpucka out, Orlando Woolridge moved to 
ged, however, as Notre Dame 
returned to the water less than 
20 hours later to face the always 
tough Bradley Braves. 
With memories of last year's 78-35 humiliation at Bradley still fresh in their minds, the determined Irish set out to win the meet-opening 400-yard medley relay, hoping to to take a quick 7-0 advantage. The top Irish team of Glenn Battle, Gary Severyn, Don Casey and Shep­ardson clocked a time of 3:43.7, the fastest by an Irish medley team in two years, yet not worth a single point as the Bradley unit touched just :00.3 seconds ahead. 
The first bright spark for Notre Dame came in the meet's forth event, the 50-yard free­style, where juniors John Kom­ora and Tom Krutsch finished one-two (:22.6 and :22.9 respec­tively( to give the Irish a much needed shot in the arm. Fresh­man Gary Severyn answered with a win in the 200-yard individual medley to pull the Irish to within three, 23-20. But that was as close as the Irish could come as the Braves took first place in each of the remaining eight events and the Irish taking both the second and thrid places in six of the final eight. 
With the season now half over and their record even at 3-3, the Irish have a full week to prepare for Saturday after­noon's home finale against visiting St. Bonaventure. The final five dual meets are all on the road. 
forward with Gilbert Salinas at center. Woolridge responded with one of his best games of the year, tying Jackson for the team scoring lead with 15 points and also grabbing a game-high nine rebounds. 
"If anything, Tripucka's loss is to Notre Dame's advantage," said Maryland coach Lefty Dri­esel. "I thmk that any ttme a player is out that is an advant­age to the other team. I think it was a big psychological advant­age to Notre Dame." 
The victory upped No~re Dame's record to 13-2, while the Terrapins, leaders in the Atlantic Coast Conference, fell to 14-3. Notre Dame travels to Philadelphia to face LaSalle Wednesday night, beginning at 9 p.m. in the Palestra. 



ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS 
We are a leader in fast, exciting fields ... aircraft, missiles, electronic,, automa­
tion. Electrical Engineers play a vital role in our continued growth .md industry 
leadership. Opportunities for future-minded Electrical Engim•t•rs .m· available in 
these challenging career fields: 
Guidance and Control Mechanics 
• 
Dig1tol Flight Control Design/ Analysis 

• 
Inertial Navigation System Analysis 

• 
Software Design Development and Validation 

• 
Trajectory Analysis 

• 
Redundant Digital Signal Processing 

• 
Filtering and Control Techniques 


Reliability 
• 
Doto Analysis 

• 
Circuit Analysis 

• 
Port Stress Analysis 

• 
Failure Mode and Effect Analysis 


Electronics 
• 
Automatic Test Equipment 

• 
Embedded Microprocessor Architecture/ De~gn . 

• 
Digital. Analog and RF Equipment/Circuit Design 

• 
Hardware and Software 


Fire Control Systems 
• Radar 

An Equal Oonortunity E
.____________________. 
~--------~ 
• Forward Lool~ing Infrared. Television. or Loser Technology 
Avionics Test Requirements Analysis 
• 
Radar 

• 
Displays 


• 
Inertial Systems 

• 
Flight Computers 

• 
Communication 


If your ready to get your career off the ground, McDonnell Douglas would like to talk with you. Sign up at your placement office for a personal inter­view. Here is the date we'll be on campus: 
Tuesday February 5 
/ 

MCDONNELL DOUGLQ""!...-­
"-./ 

U.S. Citizenship Required 
The Observer -Sports 
Monday, January 28, 1980-page 14 
Muncie leadsNFC in Pro Bowl 
HONOLULU (AP) -Chuck Muncie of New Orlearis ran for LWO touchdowns and threw a 25-yard halfback option pass to Dallas' Tony Hill for another 
score Sunday to lead the National Conference to a 37-27 victory over the American Conference in the Pro Bowl. 
The victory was the third in a row for the NFC and gave it a 6-4 edge over the AFC in this game, which comes one week after the Super Bowl and officially closes the National Football Leauge season. 
Muncie, selected the most valuable player in the game, had gained 1,198 yards for the Saints this season, broke a 3-3 tie on a 1-yard run with 1:41 gone in the second period, then swept in from 11 yards out with 
5:14 gone in the fourth quarter for the NFC's final touchdown. 
The AFC tied it 10-10 barely four minutes after Muncie's first score on a 1-yard pass from Pittsburgh's Terry Bradshaw to Cleveland's Mike Pruitt. That play came right after Dallas' Cliff Harris was penalized 2 5 yards for pass interference in the end zone against wide receiver Stanley Morgan of New England. 
The Saints' Archie Manning put the f_llFC ahead again 16-IQ by cappmg a 12-play, 80-yard drive with a 13-yard scoring pass to Detroit's David Hill. 
With I: 50 to go in the half, three plays after linebacker Harry Carson of the New York Giants intercepted a Bradshaw pass, Muncie took a Manning pitchout, rolled to his right and lofted his 25-yard scoring strike to Tony Hill, who caught the ball in the right corner of the end zone. Anothi!r intercePtion of a Bradshaw pass,this one ... New Orleans' safety Tom :'vt} trs, preceded Muncie's 11-yard scoring run. 

Philadelphia's Wally Henry electrified the Aloha Stadium crowd of48,060 with an 86-yard punt return for a 30-10 NFC lead early in the third period. Houston's Earl Campbell scored the AFC' s final two touchdowns on runs of 2 and 1 yards. 

Molarity 
WE Dt:Jt4lT t.J4Jff -XHECWE
ELSE TELLING u.s WHAT
!tBOUT iHI5 CUAN 6UY!J..JJW!s 
BEN.ITY IS. BEAUTY IS IN TH£
WPU.JG wrm Nt> AND SHC 
GIR/..S P'OSING FOR PlAY&>'/ ? 



The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 


1:.1/t.iillli 1:.1/t.iillli fjl{:(Lil I:t ;J :r(L(l 
\.1:lli Spring Breakout to Ft. Lauderdale &Daytona \.1:tl!.. 
Take abus to & from Daytona and slay at the Whitehall Inn 
only $199 
or 

Drive 'n · save with hotel accommodations 
at the luxurious Whitehall Inn 
only $99 
or 

Drive 'n' save to Ft. lauderdale and 
Stay at the lauderdale Bi Itmore 
only$109 
Each trip includes: 

[' 6 days/5 nights at the beautiful Lauderdal Biltmore in Ft 
lauderdal or at the Whitehall Inn in Day1ona 
[J both are ocean front hotels 
0 Parties and Activities 
0 Optional extra nights of lodging 
0 Optional Disney World side trip 

0 Optional Kennedy Space Center Tour 
0 Optional Matamoros trip 

ACROSS  24  Stops  
-Boothe  engines,  
Luce  at sea  
6  Knie'  .1  '  Makes clear  
10  Fo'  N  -:l<.  Soviet news  
agency  
14  I~ IIT'J.e,·s 11o<ne  31 3;  Cajole One­ 
15  Lh:!Su VIP  (singly)  
1'  De1 1rt the  36  Love affair  
ret  vation  40  One who  
17  Idle  c  scorns  
18  Q: .10unted  41  Threnodies  
19  ,id's asso­ 42  Kazan  
ci.~.te  43  Needlefish  
20  Parody  44  Deterio­ 
22  Give ex- rates  
pression to  47  Brie, e.g.  
23  Shoe or  50  Sheet of  
family  glass  

Friday's resu ~ts 
Michael Molinelli Ransey rallies 

Buckeyes 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) -Kel­vin Ransey hit eight points in less than one minute Sunday, rallyir.g fourth-ranked Ohio State to a 70-65 victory over No. 17 Virginia in a nationally televised college basketball game Sunday afternoon. 
Ransey, a senior guard scoring in double figures for the 80th straight game, sank a field goal and six straight free throws to give the Buckeyes a 66-59 lead with less than two minutes left. 
Ransey, voted the game's most valuable player, wound up with 18 points while his running mate at guard, Carter Scott, had 21. 
Ohio State pushed its record to 14-3 less rhan 24 hours after it was upset by Big Ten foe Wisconsin 72-71. 
Virginia, led by 7-4 freshman center Ralph Sampson's 14 points, fell to a 16-4 mark. 
The Cavaliers built ::t 4i-34 lead in the Erst six minutes of the second half before Ohio State rallied behind the play of its guards. Scott had 15 points and Ransey 14 in the second half. · 
Sampson and Ohio State's 6-10 JUnior center Herb \X ,. Iiams battled to a virtual ·;ranJ­still, with Sampson ours, ring his more experienced rival by a point. 
Ransey's basket gave Ohio State the lead for good at 59-57 with 2:40 remaining. 
· .ullll• 

Griffith leads Louisville 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP) ­Darrell Griffith scored 27 points to lead seventh-ranked Louis­ville to a 79-7 3 win over Florida State Sunday in a foul-plagued Metro Conference basketball game. 
A total of 47 fouls were whistled in the game, with all 10 starters having at least three fouls apiece and three players, including Griffith, fouling out. 
After Louisville pulled ahead by nine late in the first half, Florida State rallied to trail only 39-36 at halftime. Louisville then scored the first six points of the second half to again goon top by nine, but the Seminoles came back to outscore the Cardinals 11-2 to tie the game at 47. 
Louisville, 16-2 on the year, then built its largest lead at 64-52 with 9:21 left. However, Florida State ran off eight straight points, six of them by leading scorer Mickey Dillard, to trim the Louisville margin to four. 
But that was as close as the Seminoles could get as the Lousiville margtn stayed between six and eight points for the rest of the game. 
Wiley Brown, with 13 P?ints, and Rodney McCray, w1th 11, supported Griffith for Louisville while Dillard had 22, Elvis Rolle 19 and Bobby Parks 17 for Florida State. 

One in a will Parodies Time -half Cinematic unit Strange Guitar ridge Away from the wind Vine Bronte heroine Furnished A Barrymore 
DOWN Stylish 

51 
52 58 59 
60 
61 62 
63 64 
65 
66 
2 Turner 3 Seaweed derivative 4 Indian 
queen 5 Rears 6 Buoys ... p 7 Purchasing 
power 

8 Arabian VIP 9 Kind of 
TV sil,;.. 10 Parodies 11 Ballroom 
attire 12 Blessed or current 13 Row 
21 Buchwald 
25 Munich's. river 26 Seaport in 
Israel 27 Catspaw 28 Docile 29 Embroider 30 Child 33 Otiose 34 German 
possessive 35 Baseball stats. 37 Island off Sumatra 38 lntellec· 
tual 39 Letter 44 Place for 
bills 45 Washington 
engraving 46 Cobble 47 Irritate 48 Husband of 
Anne Boleyn · ~ Duck 50 Show vanity 53 African 
river 54 Give up 55 Donny's 
state 56 Piscivorous bird 57 Performer of a kind 

------------~--=-----~-~.---l 
The Observer -Sports Monday, January 28, 1980-page 15 
• • ••_S_cr__;::ip::...__t Sports Briefs. 

j 
l ~ 
1 j 
I 
l 
1 
--,j 

I I 

Monday, January 28, 1980-page 16 
Irish beat Terps 
•

It's Tracy. • . agatn 
by Mark Perry Sports Editor 

As far a; Tracy Jackson is concerned, he's had enough heroics for one season. 
"I don't want to be put in a situation like that anymore," admittedJackson, whose magic touch has beaten rwo teams in the last seconds this season. "I'd rather win it solid." 
Still, Jackson's clutch driving lay-up came against a team he loves to beat, as the Irish edged Maryland, 64-63, in a nationally televised contest at the ACC on Saturday. 
''I'm always ready to play against Maryland," Jackson said. "In this game, just like the first rwo against them, my adrenalin was flowing. I get personal satisfaction out of beating Maryland." 
Tracy's score came at a desperate moment for the Irish, who had succeeded in blowing seven-point lead, thanks mainly to the efforts Maryland's Albert King, who scored ten of his game-high 21 points in a four minute stretch. With 23 sec­onds left, King scored on a jumper and then stole Notre Dame's inbounds pass for a lay-up that gave the Terps a 63-62 lead. 
by Mark Hannuksela Sports Wn'ter 

It was the Tracy and Shari show at the ACC. 
Once again, Tracy Jackson saved the day for Digger Phelps and his Fighting Irish basket­ball team in a 64-63 win over Maryland. And once again Shari Matvey paced coach Sha: ron Petro's women's basketball team to victory, in a 78-76 decision over Mount Saint J os­eph's College of Cincinnati on Saturday. 
While Jackson's heroics have been commonplace in the last two weeks, Matvey has been Petro's dominant force thro­ughout this 1979-80 season. Saturday, the 6-1 freshman from Austintown, Ohio scored in double figures for the ninth straight game. and 12th out of 
With 15 seconds left, Irish coach Digger Phelps elected not to call timeout. "I looked at the clock and saw 15, and I knew we could get a transition score out of it," Phel.ps said. 
That left It up to Jackson. "I 

knew  there  was  only  a  few  
seconds  left  on  the  clock,''  
Jackson  recalled,  "and  when  

Billy (Hanzlik) threw the ball inbounds, the first thing on my mind was to take it to them." "I saw a few players turning their heads gomg downcourt, and I just wanted to go straight to the hoop," he added. Jack­son drove the length of the floor, put a move on Greg Manning at the right baseline, and layed the ball in the basket. 
Maryland called timeout with four seconds left to get the last, shot, but Hanzlik made sure that King didn't get of a very good one. 
"It looked like Albert really wanted the ball, so I wanted to force him up to get the ball,''· Hanzlik said. "He got it at about the free throw line, so I tried to turn him around once or twice to burn out the clock. 
''When he came down I didn't want him to get in rhythm for a jumper, so I 


[continued on page 13] SLAM DUNK by the Tree!!! 
Matvey sparks UJotnen'S teatn 
With ten straight points in the14 a~ a collegian. In the process next 2:44 to tie the game atshe tied rwo of her own school 45-45, but three straight buck­records, set earlier this year ets by the Mounties put Petro'sagainst Chicago State, for most cagers in the hole again, 51-45.
points (31) and most field goals made (14) in a single game. She At that point, Petro reinsert­also pulled down a game high [continued on page 12] 15 rebounds in leading the Irish to their tenth win of the season. 
Matvey and her teammates will attempt to raise that victory 

'Hey,,, theydidn 'treadthescript!' 
total on Wednesday when coach 
Jerry Dallessio's Saint Mary's I've come to the conclusion that all the 

Belles visit the ACC at 7:30 

last-second, win-or-lose, here-comes-Tracy 
p.m. Jackson-to save-the-day, basketball gamesBy halftime, Matvey had 14 we've been getting around here are not due points and six rebounds. Soph­simply to poor play on Notre Dame's part or omore Tricia McManus added even great play on the part of their opJ?onents tonine points to the Irish cause. rake those leads away. These nail-biters have The second half started slow­

nothing to do with Digger versus Lefty or gamely for the Irish as Mount St. 
plan versus game plan. No, my friends, finallyJoe's scored eight of the first the truth can, and in fact must be, told. 
ten points to take its biggest These games are fixed!!! No, not by the Mafia lead, 45-35, with 16:48 remain­or the bookies down on Mishawaka A venue. The 

ing. Notre Dame then answered final scores of these contests are determined by a force much more mighty and omnipresent. A power so strong that it can even influence what 

color uniforms  a  ream  will  wear.  (of course,  
green, dpes  look  so  much  better  than  blue,  
doesn r 1t?)  

It's television. Yes dear readers and wavers of dirty socks, the television people are the ones who decide when to play, what time to start the game, what time to end it and, of course, when to call all those unexplaioed timeouts en route. But everyone knows all that. What you aren't aware of are the other things that the NBC peacock has control over. Last Saturday I had the chance to wear a set of NBC headphones and listen to these decisions as they were made ... 
"OK, this is the director in the truck. We're rwo minutes from airtime. Everybody get in position and let's hope we have a good one." 
''Hey chief, what do you mean hope we have a good one? Didn't you read the script? this is gonna be a one-pointer with rwo lead changes in the last 15 seconds." 
."Yeah, I. know. But a director has to say stuff hke that m case someone from the NCAA is listening. OK, now give me a close-up of Digger. Wait a minute! Wait a minute! Tell him to fix his collar and straighten that tie. And his hair; someone get him a comb!" 
"How about Lefty, chief? Is he OK?" 
"Yeah, I suppose. See if you can get some powder for the glare.''

Logan's two hat tricks pace sweep over Huskies 
by Bnan Beglane Sports Wn'ter 

HOUGHTON, Mich -The Notre Dame hockey team played the role of the spoiler thi§. weekend, and the biggest spoiler of them all was sophomore Jeff Logan. 
Logan, a native of Grosse Pointe Shores, Mich., collected two hat tricks and sparked the Irish to an 8-5, 7-5 sweep over Michigan Tech Friday and Saturday nights at the MTU Student Ice Arena. The rwo wins spoiled Huskies coach John Macinnes' bid for his 500th victory, but more importantly, skyrocketed Notre Dame from a tie for sixth to third place in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association. The Irish have won four games in a row and moved to 10-8 in the league (14-11 overall). Michigan Tech fell to 8-9-1 in the WCHA (14-11-1 overall). 
The sweep also brought Notre Dame coach Lefty Smith to within one victory of his 200th win as coach of the Irish. Smith, in his 12th year at Notre Dame, will have the oppor­tunity to gain No. 200 this weekend when the Irish host Wisconsin (1:30 p.m. faceoff both Saturday and Sunday afternoons at the ACC). 
' 'I think the fact we had our whole lineup intact showed through,'' said Smith. "Having our top three lines healthy improved our offense immensely. Defensively, we've returned to the pairings we used last year and that helped. And it certainly was nice to see 
Jeff (Logan) do so well." 

Log:m broke a 3-3 tie Friday night with his first goal at 17:09 of the first period. Senior Greg Meredith, who totaled rwo goals for the series, made it 5-3 after the first period when he chased Husky starting goalie Darcy Way w!th his 21st goal of the year at 18:40. Rob Polmantuin replaced Way. 
Logan extended the advantage to 6-3 at 4:24 of the second, but Tech's AI Mickalich made it 6-4 with his second power play goal of the night at 
7:26. Notre Dame co-captain Tom Michalek notched his fourth shorthanded goal of the year at 11:27 to make it 7-4, and Logan got his second career hat trick at 14:19 of the second. 
Irish goalie Bob McNamara made 43 saves and collected his eighth win of the year. Way 
and  Polmantuin combined  for  
31 stops.  
. "Sometimes  things  just  go  

nght," said Logan, "and I guess this was just one of those times, I was in the right place at the right time. I don't recall ever getting back to back hat tricks before.'' 
Logan has a good chance at being named Player of the Week for his rwo hats. But getting it the second night was not as easy. 
The Huskies came out flying Saturday night and jumped out to a 3-1 lead in the first 13 minutes. It then literally took ' 'a good knock in the head'' to get the Irish going. 
With 4:19 remaining in the first period, Notre Dame's Don Lucia and Tech's Brent DeNar 
(continued on page 12] 


Frank LaGrotta 
Sports Writer 

"You mean on his nose?" 
"No, his head. Next year we're gonna make a rule that no teams with bald coaches can get on TV. OK we're ready to start. Did you give both coaches a copy of the script?'' 
"Yessir chtef. But Lefty doesn't like the ending. He thinks Hanzlik should foul King and then have King go to the line and miss the free throw. Says it'll make him look like a smarter coach." 
"Tell him sorry, but no way. We used that one rwo years ago in a Notre Dame--UCLA game right here. Remember how Wilkes missed the free throws and Notre Dame won. If Lefty has any more gripes just remind him about that one. Now lets get started." 
"Gotcha chief--Oh, by the way, who was responsible for getting Tripucka out of the game.'' 
''I'm no, sure but it'll sure give AI, Dick and Billy some great stuff to talk about during the ~am~. You know, team l<_:>ses star, team gets msp1red, team goes on to wm. Ah, those guys in publicity are really on the ball.'' 
"Hey chief, isn't it a little early for Hanzlik to get his second foul?'' 
"Not at all. Remember yesterday at the meeting when we decided that getting Hanzlik on the be~ch e~rly would be Maryland's excuse for keepmg It close and even leading at halftime.'' 
"Oh, yeah ... hey, by the way chief, it's getting close to halftime. You wanna have someone get injured so AI and BiJly can argue about whether or not he'II be back?" 
[continued on page 15] 








