, , . patriotism -page 2 


VOLUME XV, NUMBER 
Bradem.as 
com.rnents 

on election 
Rep. John Brademas (D-Ind) has represented this cong­ressional district since 195 8, and in that time has risen to the position of Hol}Se Majority Whip, the third most powerful man in the House. Yet, he still faces a stiff fight for re-election this fall. Observer Senior Staff Reporter Mary Fran Callahan :alked tohim recently, and asked him about that. 

Q: Do you think the poll that came o11t recently and showed you behind Republican John Htler is aca1rate? 

A: No. The last one only polled I 06 people. I used to teach political science, and I used to teach about surveys. We survey more people than that if we want to decide to serve hamburgers or hot dogs at a picnic. I cannot take a poll seriously that is taken from a such a small sample. 
Q: no you think So11th Bend voters holdyoupersoflally respomihlefor high ;memployment? 
A: Ah, no. I don't, and the reason I say that is that most of them know my service in Congress. I have worked very hard to bring more jobs to this community. You walk out the front door and look left; you will see that building going up. Wel1 that was made possible by a combination of federal dollars and private dollars. I did bring $7.6 million in federal money here. That project will mean 500 new permanent jobs. 
Senator Bayh and I worked very closely to bring the gasohol plant to South Bend. That plant will mean 300-500 jobs for the people who build it, 140 per­manent jobs for those who operate it and over 1000 jobs for secondary industry-like trucking. 
It will also mean a huge in­crease in the market for farmers' C• 1rn. The plant is going to 
n. .juire 20 million bushels of corn every year. That corn will be bought from a 40-mile radius around South Bend. 
I want to tell you one of the themes in my campaign is simply this: Here in northern Indiana, we have to do more than just weather the current recession, we have to rebuild our local economy, and I'm confident we will. We're being clobbered by the troubles of the auto industry in Detroit. Ifwe are going to be able to play our part.. .in the international economy, we can't 
[con#nued on page 3] 
33 

Random scenes at EastS Lansing before Saturday's · 
M. U pregame game.Multitudes of ND!SMC students made t6e journey. fphotos by John Macor] 

I I 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1980 j 
l 
Robbers hit library, I l ~ 'inside job' sUspected I l 
By Dctvtd Rickabaugh 
Early Friday morning the Rare Book and Special Collection 
Room ofthe Memorial Library was the scene ofa $15,000 robbery. 
Authorities investigating the theft are workirtg on the theory that 
it was an "inside job." 
,-Rare coins belonging to the University ofNotre Dame and papal 
medals belonging to Notre Dame President Fr. Theodore M. 
Hesburgh were taken in the theft. 
The items were taken from the Department of Rare Books and 
Special Collections, located on the first floor in the <;outhwest wing 
ofthe Memeorial Library. Entry was gained by breaking an east sidt· 
window to an office area which houses the display cases containing 
the coins and medals. 
' Notre Dame Security has called in the St. Joseph County Police 
Department to assist with the investigat-ion. 
The collections in the Department of Rare Books and Special Collections were not generally known· about, according to Sgt. Jack Hanna of the St. Joseph County Police and Anton C. Masin, head of the department. 
The burglar alarms went off at 6:24a.m. and security arrived on the scene at 6:26a.m., making the theft one of precision timing. 
"They knew what they were breaking into, but no.t what they were after. Notre Dame security didn't even know what was here. It had to be inside." 
Mason commented that the thieves were "going after the glitter," since many of the items taken were of little collectable value. I terns ofa higher value were left untouched by the intruders. 
The total collection is worth $100,000 according to Masin. 
Janel Mull, Director of the Library Monitor Staff commented, "We were pleased with the way the alarm system worked and the performance of N.D. security." 
Mull added that at the present time no new security measures will be adopted. According to Mull this is the first major theft to occur at the Memorial Library since it opened in 1963. The 15 missing coins dated from 1799 to 1914 and ranged in value from $75 to $5,500. A U.S. $10 Eagle gold piece minted in 
[continued on page 3] 



Riehle hopesfor house purchase 
By Tim Verc:el/ott/ . Staff Reporter 
In an effort to improve the quality of off-campus housing, the Notre Dame student gov­ernment is hoping to purchase homes in the Northeast section of South Bend. The plan will begin with the purchase of one house; repairs will be made, burglar and smoke alarms will be installed, and the house will be rented out to students. 
The first home will serve as a model for future homes. This project will be funded by the_ student government, the Off­Campus council, and from do­nations. 
Tad Nacheff, student gov­ernment housing commission­er, is working on the project. Nacheff offered several reason's for the undertaking ofthis plan, the primary one being the cur­rent series of robberies and as­suits against off-campus stu­dents. Calling this a "long term solution to off-campus crime," Nacheff expressed hop.... s that this plan would create a student neighborhood. 
"In such a neighborhood, the students would be able to look out for each other. This would also help to form a voting bloc that could have some influence in city matters," Nacheff siad. 
According to Nacheff, a pro­ject such as this one will cause the administration, and the lo­cal landlords to take notice. Student Body President Paul Riehle, the originator of the plan, also expressed this sen­timent. "We wil1 show the ad­ministration that if they don't take the lead, then we will," Riehle stated. It is also the hope of the student government that landlords will begin to upgrade the quality of their homes as a result of these efforts. 
The projected date of occu­pancy of the first house is the beginning of the spring sem­ester. Nacheff is unsure of the process that will be used to decide who will live in the house, although he indicated 
[continued on page 3] 
Starts today 

SMCsponsors 'Political Week' 
By Mary Leavitt Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's Student Gov­ernment is sponsoring "Polit· ical Week" starting today and running through Thursday. Activities for the week include various speakers and political presentation.. 
"This is the first time we have had anything like this at Saint Mary's," said Leslie Griffith, chairman of Political Week. "We just basically want to in­form people about politics both locally and nationally so they have some basis upon which to vote." 
Rep. John Brademas, Con­gressman for the Third District since 1958, will appear today in 
the Little Theatre in Moreau Hall at 4:30p.m. Brademas will give a speech followed by a question and answer session. 
Tomorrow night, there will be a mock debate in Carroll Ha)l at 7:00. Three Notre Dame stu­dents will take the roles of Car­ter, Reagan and Anderson. Af­terwards there will be an open session during which students may question the "candidates." 
Mayor Roger Parent will speak Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Little Theatre. He will remain after his presentation to answer questions. 
On Thursday, there will be two speakers. Jan Mihelich will give a presentation at 7 p.m. Mihelich is running for County Clerk this vear and has in the 
" 
past served in various capacities for the American Association of University Women. Also speak­ing is Elayne Garrett, the rep­resentative in South Bend for the National League ofWomt:n Voters. Garrett will speak on "What to Look for When Vot­ing for a Candidate." 
In addition, there will be a Political Booth in LeMans Lob­by from 11-4 Tuesday through Thursday. The booth will fea­ture information on candidates in the various parties, including the Socialist and Libertarian parties. 

On Friday and Saturday nights, "All The President's Men" will be shown in Carroll Hall at 7 and 9:30 p.m. Ad­mission is S 1. 

-

News-Brie_b 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Buffeted by 25-foot waveSforan entire day while bounctng around in life boats after a fire forced them to abandon the cruise liner Prinsendam, pas­sengers said yesterday they had nearly given up hope ofbeing rescued and feared they would die. "We were so cold. I don't believe we could have survived a night in the boat," said Sonna Criss, 48, of Toronto. "It was a nightmare. I don't know what else to call it." The ship was left burning 120 miles off the rugged Alaskan coast. At a news conference in New York,Jan Boeren, vice president ofreservations and tours for Holland America Cruises, said all passengers had been .1ccounted for. But the Coast Guard still hunted the stormy waters for possible stragglers among the more than 500 passengers and crew members forced to jump ship early Saturday. 
Iranian jets attacked Baghdad and 
.ther Iraqi cities at dawn yesterday,breaking an Iraqi cease­
ire moments after it went into effect. The Iraqi high 
)mmand announced the war would go on into a third 
eek.ln Tehran, the IranianParliament which had been 
. heduledto take up the issue of the5 2American hostages in 
11eir 337th day of captivity yesterday,cancelled a public 
·.:ssion.Iraq, which says it hasachieved its main militarygoals 
1 the Persian Gulfwar, tried to impose a unilateralcease-firt: 
,ut the offer wasspurned by Iran's revolutionaryregime. lrar. 
1as vowed to fighton until Iraqi troops are drivenfrom 
.ranian territory.A senior Iraqi official announced twu 
:·anian air raids on Baghdad and attacks on other cities. The 
::.evolutionary Command Council, Iraq's ruling body, thea 
nnounced thatthe war would continue "inview of Iran's 
non/response tothe cease-fire that began atdawn." 
Another bomb exolosion rocked Paris yesterday as French police, faced with the discovery of fascists within their own ranks, questioned right-wing militants about a recent wave of anti-Semitic violence and a deadly explosion at a synagogue. Police said a female Dutch tourist was seriously injured when a bomb ripped apart her car, parked on Boulevard St. Germaine in the Latin Quarter. They said Carmelia Van Pusselen, 33, ofBrunssum, may lose both legs. Her husband told 'police his family had driven to Paris from the Netherlands for a weekend holiday to celebrate his birthday and that they were not Jewish. An anonymous telephone caller told the French news agency Agence France-Presse the bombing was the work of the Revolutionary Nationalist Movement, an extreme-rightist group whose leaderwas one of13 people arrested after Friday night's explosion in front ofa Paris synagogue.. The death toll from that blast rose to four yesterday when a40-year-old man died from his injuries. He, like the other three victims, had been passing by the synagogue when the bomb went off. 
ChancellorHelmut Schmidt's left-liberal coali­Lon was returned to power by German voters yesterday, defeating his conservative opponent, Bavarian Premie· Franz Josef Strauss after one of the nation's bitterest cam­paignbattles. Strauss conceded defeat in the parliamentary e!ections,telling a national'television audience he had "failed to achieve" his goal of the chancellorship. "I will still have a place in WestGerman politics," Strauss said. Yesterday''; balloting ended a bitter political campaign in which tht:: candidates attacked each other with often vicious personal invective and werethe verbal targets ofotherpoliticalgroups. Preliminary,unofficial results showed Schmidt's Social Democratic Party holding onto the approximately 42 per­...:ent of the vote it claimedin the 1976 election. 
Of the research awards accepted by the University ofNotre Dame for the month of August, nearly three-quarterswere for projects in the College of Engineering, accountingfor $393,687 of research awards totaling $534,335. Atotal of $701,365 in awards also in­cluded $83,275 forfacilities and equipment and $83,75 5 for innovativeeducational and service programs, according to Dr. RobertE. Gordon, vice president for advanced studies. Awards forindividual faculty research projects included a $130,500 grantfrom the Department of Energy for hydro­dynamic and chemicalmodeling of heavy metals .in ash pond leachates. In addition,an award of $)8,380 was made for research training in mentalretardation. 
Six ~o_norarv degrees w:m be awarded by the Umverstty ofNotre"bame at an academtc convocation lt 10:30 a.m. November 8 in the Annenberg Auditorium as part of the Snite Museum ofArt dedication. Sherman E. Lee, director of the Cleveland Museum ofArt and an authority on Oriental art, will speak at the convocation and receive an honorary doctor ofFine Arts degree. Other degree recipients are Walter H. Annenberg, a former U.S. Ambassador to the United Kingdom, Livingston L. Biddle, bestselling author, Rev. Anthony Lauck, former faculty member and depart­ment chairman in Notre Dame's Department of Art, Agnes -Mongan, consultant to the William Hayes Fogg Art Museum 
and Norton Simon, founder oftheNorton Simon Museum in Pasadena. 
Partly sunnvand warm today, high in the mid to upper 50s. Clear and chilly tonight, low in the upper 30s. Sunny, cool and pleasant tomorrow with a high in the upper 50s to low 60s. 
Monday, October 6, 1980-page 2 

Inside Monday 
A Form ofPatriotism 
Whenever our country is comfortably at peace, pa~riotism always reaches a high in our people's emotions; at the same time sympathy with the conscientious objector diminishes. It's curious how most people equate patriotism with militarism. 
The CO has his own form of patriotism to the state. He believes in preserving the state by preserving the rights of the individual and if the state is unjust or is committing an injustice, he raises his voice against it and disobeys the com­mand of the state to act on injustice. Through questioning and dissent he becomes a con­science that pricks society into seeing the in­justice that is being committed. The method the CO chooses to use is active non-agression; to find a peaceful alternative to what would otherwise be a vi­olent means of righting a about changes in those laws. 

A CO is not someone who simply says "This is an injustice." The CO, by his actions, by dis­obeying a civil law when it is unjust, attempts to change the injustice. "Ifthe injustice has a spring or a pulley, or a rope, or a crank, exclus_ively for itself, then perhaps you may consider whether the remedy will not be worse than the evil; but ifit is ofsuch a nature that it requires you to be 

wrong. 
the agent of injustice to anoth­· No one wants war or violence, er, then I say, break the law," yet it is all around us, because it wrote Thoreau in his essay, is an easier solution and seems "Civil Disobedience." "The to be more active than any al­authority of government," he ternative. The attempt to build wrote, "can have no pure right a peaceful world takes more over my person and property time, sacrifice, thought and co­but what I concede to it." The. operation than the attempt to rights of the individual to live wage a war. And everyone wants and follow his own beliefs. That quick and easy solutions. The is what our government was set progress of history has been a up for, and when the conscien­
cycle-build, destroy, rebuild destroy, ad infinitum. But, when an individual or several indiidu­als stop and say, "I've had enough, I won't continue," that cycle can be broken. Sure, its idealistic to think that people all over the world would ever lay down their arms voluntarily­
but ifit doesn't start sometime by someone, the chances of peace are all that more remote. If no one refused to fight, then the chances of war become that much greater. 
There is a difference between saying "I don't want war" and "I will not fight." It's the dif­ference between a tiny voice and a bullhorn. Ifa government had no one, or not enough people willing to fight in :,t war, this would be more incentive for them to do all they can to avotd a war. And the time to avoid a war isnow when we are at peace; because. when our backs come up against the wall the chance to avoid war and violence becomes that much harder, and peace that much more remote. 
Attempts are made by governments to avoid war-but how effective is government unless it acts on the will of its people? Government, whatever type it is, is only a tool. It is the individuals that make up a country. To see the effects of a peaceful individual can have over a government one only has to look at the work of Ghandi and Martin Luther King Jr. They ob­jected to the unjust laws and actions of their countries and found a peacful alternative to bring 
tious objector chooses to dis­
obey the government when he 
believes it is.acting injustly, he 
is preserving that right of the individual. 
What our choice will be in the next war no one can say. Ifyou look at it rationally, the chance of another world war is slim-face it, such a war with the highly destructive weapons every na­tion has today would annihilate us. With the sophistication of our tracking systems, there isn't even a way our country can be invaded without our knowing in enough time to set offa bomb or two of our own. What is left? Another Korea or Vietnam? Another war to which Con­gress sends us in order to "protect our vital interests?" They tried that before with Korea and Vietnam, and look at the results. 
War.has always been inhuman, but with the present strategies of war its atrocity is even greater. We outlawed germ warfare after WWI only to create napalm for Vietnam-who knows what they'll come up with for the next war, but you can safely bet they'll come up with 
something. 
But we're at peace now so we don't really have to pay attention. Or do we? 
Ifwe're not vocal in our protests and desire for peace now, peace won't last long. There is an alternative to violence and war. That alternative is to question and object and disobey the choice of violence. And that objection must be con­stant, loud, clear and now. 

Wccl.end Memories I:esign Fditor:Rvan"demoosed at Msu··v~rBerkmo~s llesign Assistants;Patt)' my own bed ·Hull~y Monica· kicks & brt"ws·c.u~l" Layout Staff;Ron ·night neophvt<· Hayn<"s I )ay Technician:Bro,~·~ Annie' Oakley Night Tcchnician;Rkh Serpico Fisch<"r News l'ditor:Tom shot in dark· Ja.:kman t .opy l'ditor:Kim dear granny.. P.~tent Sports Layout:surrt:ndt:rcd to us Typists:Linda lost memory.. H ewith Systems Te.:hnician:Stt"pht:n reset' Brown :'Ill: flay I ditnr:Bob a holy man Bernt»kie Ad 1)esign:Earl thr w.tn· dcrinJ.! n1oo~t' Phntographt"r:Chri' fl il'k..d pix ·s.,: vontl Guest Appearances:Margart"l A. Kru'it:, · Mar~ie <-hinnuok Hrassil  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Colrege. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing Tile Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
SIDEWALK BOOK SALE 
Wed. Oct. 8 & Thurs. Oct. 9 9 a.m.til. 4 p.m. 
Paperbacks Hardbound DRASTICALLY REDUCED!! 
CASH ONLY 

HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

~--~----­

~--~ 
' 
The Observer 
• • • Brademas 
[continued from page 1] 
do business the old way. We've got to put together new building blocks for a new economy in our area. And I've mentioned one­energy. We've got to move in the direction of playing a more important role with it, and the gasohol plant is·a symbol ofthat. _ Q: Do you see a trend of federal intervention in the economy developing? 
A: As I indicated, I voted for the deregulation of the railroad industry, the airline industry, local banks and small business. 
''I didn't enjoy having to vote for the Chrysler bail-out deal, but Indlana is second only to Michigan ... ' ' 
But at the same time, what the 
goverment does will have a great 
effect on the industries of our 
lives-through tax policy. 
Now I don't think anybody 

likes the ideaofhaving to bail out 
flailing industry. I didn't enjoy 
having to vote for the Chrysler 
bail-out deal, but Indiana is 
second only to Michigan in the 
number ofemployees dependent 
on the help of Chrysler. So we 
had a very difficult short-run 
problem. And we are right now 
facing the problem of building 
our future. 
I think we are having to find our way because on one hand, we are reluctant to see the govern­ment get more involved in .the private sector of our economy, but on the other hand, we see some profound economic problems...that are not going to go away if we don't face up to them. What I'm trying to do is ease the impact of the recession right now while looking down the road. 
Q: /)o you think the National Conservative Poldical Action Committee is going to atfack you the way they're attacking Birch Bayh? 
A: I wouldn't be surprised. I have not run across them, but there are more and mar~ right­wing political action committees sr ringing uparound the country. Corporate tycoons are sitting 
• .. Housing 
[continued from page 1 ] 
that a lottery is a possibility. 
Dwellings in the $16-20,000 dollar price range are the target of Nacheffs search for a first home. Rent for the student houses will be determined in accordance with the amount of repairs that had gone into the house. 
At the present time, then; has been no reaction on the part of the administration concerning this project, according to Riehle. Fr. Michael Heppen, the director of University Housing, declined to comment on the plan. 
This is not the first time that students have rented homes to 
1 other students. Last December a group of four men, two stu­dents and two alumni, began to purchase homes in the area, two of which have been rented to other students. Tim Mannix, one of the student landlords, reported that "there have been no problems, just the usual re­pairs." He did, however, advise the student government "to be very careful in what they buy." 
Monday, October 6, 1980-page 3 


The N.D. Student Player's production of 'A Shot in the Dark' continue.r Oct. 10 & 11. [photo by Chns Salvino] 
*******••*********** 
~  SMC Reporter's Meeting  ~  
*  - 
~  Tonight at 6:30  ~  
**  SMC Observer Office,  1!  
~  Regina Basement  ~t  

******************** 


DC CLUB OCTOBER BREAK BUS 
Re-sign up: Oct.7, 7:30-8:30pm I.aFortune lobby 
.$60 round trip/ $30 one way 
Must pay at sign-up! NO refunds 
Bus leaves: Friday Oct. 17 8prn Library Circle For more info , call Mike at 1108 
around making business invest­ments. And they're trying to defeat me and elect ] ohn Hiler because they view him as an investment. 
Well I didn't go to Congress to be a front for big corporations. It's not my responsibility to do that. Yes, in answer to your question; I wouldn't be surprised. 
Q: Why did the Senate reject your educatioTJa! btl!? 
A: The Senate said it was too expensLve, but we've pared back. We felt it was extremely impor­tant that students from both lower and middle income families have the opportunity to get the help they need to go to college. Part of the problem was the senators did not understand what they were voting on. We've made some modifications on it, but they were not drastic modifica­tions. To tell you the truth, the modifications we made were to help the senators save face and turn around and vote for it. 
Q: Wkv does the Count)! Registrar make it so difficult for students to register to vote? 
A: Well, I didn't know that was the case and ifsomebody told me that earlier, I would have done something about it. You know you can still register to vote at the Courthouse now. HI were to work with students from several universities, maybe we could arrange some way to use a bus or something, have a get-together, make it a social occasion. I had not known that; I'll try to remedy that next time. 
Editor's Note: After this interview was completed, a modified version of Brademas' education btl! was passed late last week by the House, and wrll be considered by the Senate again in the near future. 

• • • Robbery 
[continued from page 1) 
1799 and valued at$5, 500 was the single most valuable coin taken. A $5 gold piece valued at $3,000 was also taken. At least eight ofHesburgh's gold papal medals worth from $250 to $600 each were missing. The medals were valued at $3,250.ch 
The medals commemorated such events as the 1964 pilgramage to the Holy Land by Pope Paul VI and the 1964 International Eucharistic Congress in Bombay, India. Also missing was the Presidential Medal of Freedom. 
Due to the drastic increase in gold p;-ices replacing the stolen items will be a costly task. Masin said, "All the items can be replaced but some of them have doubled in price since they were originally purchased." . 
Masin said the value of each piece is asse~sed individually because the rarity and gold content varies from piece to piece. 

Another Saturda.y pre-game scene. [photo by john Macor] 

-•-~ -------~ 

The Observer============-=======----======= 




Cam.pus 
e4:30 p.m. -meeting for all history majors, place­ment bureau e;:30 p.m.-french club meeting,-south dining hall 
•7-9 p.m.-opening re­ception, isis gallery e7 p.m.-a.l.s.a.c meeting 331 o'shaughnessy e7:30 p.m.-"the scarlet t:mpress", monday -night film series, washington hall e8 p.m. -scientific ratio­nality seminar, prof. carl j. hempel, u. of pittsburgh, librarv auditorium 

Blood drive schedule announced 
A tentative schedule for ~otre Dame student blood do­lations has been announced by Brian Konzen and Matt Flah­ertv, co-fhairmen of the effort. Stt.i'dents from the following halls will give blood in the Student Health Center from 1 
p.m. to 3 p.m. on the days in­dicated: 
Keenan and Stanford-Oct. 7,8,9: Fisher and Lyons-Oct. 14,15,16: Holy Cross and Mor­rissey-Nov. 4,5,6: Breen­hillips and Grace-Nov. 11,12,13: Lewis and Cava­naugh-Nov. 18,19,20: Zahm and Pangborn-Dec. 2, 3,4. 
Last year's contributions by ND men and women were part of a record 12,600 units of blood drawn by the Central Blood Bank for use by the sick in St. Joseph County hospitals. Contact your hall representa­tive tq sign up. 

Philosopher to give three lectures 
Professor Carl Hempel, a noted 

philosopher of science now at the University ofPittsburgh, will present three lectures during the week of Oct. 6 at the University of Notre Dame's Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Monday, October 6, 1980-page 4 

Molarity Michael Molinelli 






D!Jonesbury 
A PfONE CAlL I 

>t:XJR. /'KJTES. 
MET THIS 6/RL IN

fOR~HAT? 
{)}A5HINIJTDN LA5T

f 
MONTH ANfJI ai4NT 




I 
Garry Trudeau 



The Daily Crossword 

10/6/80

© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved • 
ACROSS 33 Skagerrak 1 Kind of tea city 6 Miss Kett 36 Intense 
10 Spanish 38 Ear: pref. painter 39 Wee-hours 14 Oxllke program antelope 43 Playing15 Boy, It's card hot! 44 Certain 16 To-(unan· Japanese 
lmously) 45 First-rate 17 Ultimatum 46 City of 20 One-time Belgium 21 "We're off 48 Decorate, 
-the Ina way wizard" 51 Surmise 22 Five, below 53"-Greek 
the border to me" 23 Wound 57 Reel for 25 Precise cotton 27 VIsion 60 Texas 29 Smaller landmark 
Friday's Results 

62 Rumanian coin 
63 Authorof "Little Women" 
66 Part 
of B.A. 67 lcecream holder 
68 Sudden 
movement 69 Suit part 70 Small boys 71 Lilies 
DOWN 1 Flower part 2 Makehappy 3 Brown 
parrots 4 -Ina million 5 Newspaper head 
6 Groupof poems 7 Nuclear 
site 8 Wired typewriter 9 Fearful reverence 10 Small cranes 11 Last word, frequently 12 Nonpro· fessional 13 Word In division 
18 Franchot 19 Yield 24 Hero 26 Dismounted 28 Sts. 30 London area 31 Kind of 
collar 
32 Poet laur· eateof the 1700s 
33 Klemperer 
34 "-the Sweetheart of•••" ­
35 Furnished 37 Conceited 40 Abolishes 41 Current 42 Speaks 47 Selfish one 49 Ohlocity 50 Lagoon 
enclosures 
52 Pacific­island group 
54 Lengthwise 55 Drop 56 Stringed 
instruments 57 European 58 Tiny skin 
opening 59 Parts of 
Innings 61 Assents 64 Deed 65 Actor's 
signal 

NO 1980 UNITED WAY STUDENT DRIVE 
Participation Chart 
. 100 percent . 90 percent . 80 percent -70 percent .... 60 percent .. 50 percent ... 40 percent :.. _30 percent .•. _20 percent . _.. 10 percent ..... 0 percent 




1: .. .1: c: >-Qj a; C» .. -o c: >-c: 1: -o _Q
c a. i! u .. 0 " 1:"' Ql .~ 5 
~ 01 g s:. 1: 0 i .. 0 > 0 Q)
E -6 :;) 1: 0 ~ c 0 0
0 ~ ~ .0 01
:;) aD 0 E 0 0 0 ... ... .Q t; u 0 Ql ~ ~ ~ 01 .. ~ c c: J: 
<( 0.. c: ... C» 0
u >-:r 0 1: b <
0 ... u;
C: 0 > :r 0 "" ~ 0 :;; _Q
t 
0.. 
u ;
.;; 
"We're all in this together!" 



The Observer Monday,. October 6, 1980-page 5 
• • .Golf. 
[continued from page 6] 
confidence. "I simply have a great feeling," he said. "I'm looking for one of the best as­saults on the Burke ever.'~ Ob­viously O'Sullivan has a great deal of confidence in his play­ers, especially on their home course. 
Six golfers will compete for Notre Dame today, and the five low scores will determine the team score. Leading the Irish will be senior co-captains Tom McCarthy (West Allis, Wi.) and Tim Sacheck (South Bend, In.). McCarthy finished seventh in the State Championship last week with a 15 3 (79-74). Sacheck, at 6-4, 210, is probably the longest hitter on the squad. 
The four remaining positions on the starting roster will be filled by senior Bill McGuinness (Woodbury, N.J.), junior Bob Horak (Rochester, N.Y.), sophomore Stoney Ferlmann (Peoria, Il.) and freshman Dave Pangraze (Auburn, N.H.). 
It will be interesting to see 
how these six young men per­lieves he knows how they'll do. form in the Notre Dame In­He thinks they're going to win vitational today. O'Sullivan be-it. 
Irish women finish second in tourney 
Notre Dame women's tennis team coached by Sharon Petro finished second in the Univer­sity of Illinois Chicago-Circle Tournment over the weekend. Northern Illinois won the round-robin event over the Irish on totai matches won. 
The Irish defeated Chicago Circle 8-1, Illinois 5-4, North­ern Iowa 8-1, and lost to the winners 5-4. Notre Dame's dual match record is 11-1 for the season. 
Junior Carol Shukis, who last year set a Notre Dame record with an overall winning per­centage of .880, set another record by notching her 36th singles victory. Shukis surpas­
sed 1980 graduate Patty Mul­len's record of 34. 
Pam Fishette, in her first sea­son, set a season mark for dou­bles winning her 17th match. Before the weekend was over, however, Fishette did lose her first doubles match of the year. In singles competition, Fishette upped her record to 11-0. She has lost just one singles set this season. 
The Irish did beat Northern Illinois earlier in the year. This time the Irish were hurt by the absence of junior Mary Leagea and senior Cindy Schuster due to injury and junior Tina Stephan who was at her broth­er's wedding. 

Phil Carter rushed 40 times for 254 yards against MSU.(photo by PhilltP Johnson). 
OPEN FORUM On New Constitution 7:30p.m. Wednesday in Walsh Hall 
COME FIND OUT WHAT ITS ABOUT!






, , .Irish 
[continued from page 8) 
Hopwood artd Mark Hoyer wasted little time in doing away withJeffTrue andJim Curran 6­2, 6-2. The match lasted less than an hour. 
Meanwhile, Mark McMahon and Tom Hartzell were defeating Bill Funk and Tom Lockhart by an identical score, the first set­back the Indiana twosome had suffered in four matches. At number-two doubles,Jim Falvey and Tim Noonan increased the Irish margin to 3-0, coming from behind to defeat Mike Dickinson and Tom Rogers, 5-7, 7-5, 6-3. 
The singles matches were played with the understanding that as soon· as a team clinched the match (with five team points), play would be suspended so the Indiana team could get back to Bloomington. Rain delays al­ready had put the tournament 
almost  three  hours  behind  
schedule.  
McMahon,  Notre  Dame's  

number-one singles man, then zipped by Indiana's Jeff True in straight sets. It Q1arked the second win for McMahon over the South Bend native in as many meetings. . 
Then as the theme from "Star Wars" swelled at the neighboring ice rink, Hoyer polished off Curran at third singles, 5-7, 6-3, 
6-3, giving the Irish the winning 5-0 margin. 
Both teams had gone through a grueling day of tennis Saturday as they tried to make up for time lost to rain on Friday. With a few exceptions, each player had played two doubles and three singles matches. 
"Our team is much better conditioned than I had thought," admitted Fallon. "It was obvious that they were in better shape than most of the other teams, and that made a big difference." 
Hoyer played the most, com­pleting a total of 13 sets (three three-set singles matches and two straight-set doubles wins) between 9 a.m. and 7:30p.m. on Saturday alone. 
A few Irish players recorded unblemished slates for the two days of competition. Jim Falvey was 4-0 in doubles play and 3-0 at number-four singles. He was leading Indiana's Tom Rogers, 2­1 in the first set when Hoyer clinched the Irish victory. 
Falvey's doubles partner, Tim Noonan, was 2-0 in singles. Fallon opted to rest him during the Purdue match Saturd<iY morning, replacing him with Tom Robison. The strategy paid off as Robison won in straight sets and Noonan returned later to post a crucial victory in the 5-4 win over Indiana State. 
"I think our team experience from last year served our players well," said Fallon of his starting lineup which returned seven of eight players from last spring's 20-3 squad. "That was an ex­perienced team we had out there, and it showed." 


.:································································'..
. .
. . 
. • . JUNIORS •
•
. 
•

. .
. 
• 

Junior Parents Weekend • 
•
•
.
.
.
. 

.. Dates Have Been CHANGED 
.
.
.
. 
•

. from Feb. 13, 14, 15 to
.
. 
•
• 

• Feb.6. 7.8
•
• 
. 

. • • Anyone desiring a committee ••• chairmanship or committee
. 

• position, there will be a meeting
•
•

•• Thursday, Oct. 9, 7 p.m. 
•
•
•

• Lafortune Ballroom 
•
• 

~· ·······•····························•·······•····•··••···••··• 
WANT CHANGES? 

YOUR Student Government Needs YOUR -Help! 
Pass the new constitution: Vote "YES" on October 14 

~--r-A···,.~­


Monday, October 6, 1980-page 6
The Observer 

U of M wins cross country meet 

by Matt Hulfwan Sports Writer 

The favored Michigan Wol­verines captured the title frqm the 25th Notre Dame Invita­tional Cross Country meet this past Friday. 
Michigan won the title with a ..;core of 79. Indiana and Illinois at 84 and 88 respectively, won the second and third place hon­
)rs. The three Big Ten squads far outdistanced the rest of the field in the Blue Division. \Ltlone College was fourth with 
l 8 points. 

In the Gold division for smal­Piane, won the Gold Division with a time of 24:13. Mark Plesser of Luther College plac­ed second, while Dan Shamiyea of champion Eastern Michigan finished third. 
The Open Division, for un­attached and club runners, was won by Bob Bostates of the Saginaw Valley Track Club. Steve Stinzy and and John Roscoe placed on the second and third place sluts. 
Notre Dame's first finisher, for the second consecutive week was senior captain Chuck Aragon. Aragon placed 27th in 
the field with a time of 24_:42. Coach Piane, who had hoped for a finish in the top third of the field, was not greatly sur­prised with Irish performance. "We had hoped to do better," said Piane "but we didn't, so thats that. Speaking in terms of our times, we did o.k." The next action for the Irish cross country squad will the Big State meet. It is scheduled for Oct. 17, here, at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. It will include teams from Indiana, Purdue, and Indiana State. 
er schools, Eastern Michigan nabbed first place honors with ,\0 effort of 50 points. Northern Illinois and Ohio State placed second and third. 
Notre Dame finished six­teenth in the field of nine­teen·. The Irish competed in the Blue Division of the meet, which was run in cool temp­~ratures and a slight drizzle. 
Notre Dame coach]oe Piane, who picked Michigan to win the team title, proved accurate in choosing the individual winners ,llso. Piane named Hoosier Jim Spivey and Michigan standout Dan Hiennekan as pre-race facorites. 
Spivey finished first with a 
time of 23:36 for the five mile 
course. Hiennekan, beaten in 
the final 200 yards by Spivey, 
finished at 23:37. Brian Diemer, 
also of Michigan, finished a dis­
tant third with a time of23:55. 
Gordon Sanders, also a pre­
race favorite according to 
, 


ROCCOS men's and women's hairstyling at comfortable prices 531 N. Michigan 233-4957  


Golf team to host Notre -Dame Invite 
by Bill McCormick Sports Writer 

When asked about his team·s chances in today's Notre Dame Invitational, Irish golf coach Noel O'Sullivan didn't even pause for a second. "I'm sure we're going to win it," he said. "And I'll predict a team score no higher than 363." 
These are strong words, es­pecially considering that Pur­due will be one of the many teams competing in the 18-hole tournament on Notre Dame's Burke Memorial Course. 
Purdue might possibly be the class of the Big Ten this year. The Boilermakers walked away with the Indiana State Champ­ionship last week by fifteen strokes, causing O'Sullivan to comment that "it looks like Purdue could have one of their best teams ever." 
Notre Dame, though manag­ing third place in the State Championship, finished thirty five shots behind Purdue. Yet, without hesitation, O'Sullivan predicted "a win and possibly a record by Notre Dame on Monday." The record in the Notre DameInvitational of 359 was set by the Irish in 1974. 
O'Sullivan found it easy to explain the reason for his great 
[continued on page 5) 
Needed: Assistant Night Editor for Thurs. nights Paid Position -Late night work For more info, call John at 8661 or 1947 
' *·*****************************D
(DILLON HALLcongratulates l ? all its section leaders on 1oocro in the ~ 
~ United Way drive. 
D 

~ JIM WALSH RON ZAMBER FRANK DAWAHARE L MIKE SPELLMAN JOHN MERLOCK BRIAN McHUGH ~ WILBUR CHANDLER CHRIS CAIN DON VAN HARKEN 
0 

JOHN McNALLY JIM DEMAIO JIM SCHULTS 
I 

L JOHN WIELAND TOM GROJEAN TRACY COTTER ~ MIKE RIGALI 
~ JOHN DAlY· VICE PRESIDENT DAVE lEWIS-TREASURER 
I 
l 

~ DILLON 
D 
I L 

~ WE'RE ALL IN THIS TOGETHER! 
~ 
D 
~ 
L 
~ 
0 
I L 
~ 
~ 
I 
L 
~ 
D 
I 
~ 
~ 
****************************** 
The Notre Dame soc..:t::r team suffered a disheartening week­end, falling 4-1 to Michigan State on Friday and 4-2 to Marquette yesterday in two away contests. 
Senior Kevin Lovejoy was the only bright spot for the Irish against the W ardors in Mil­waukee. The senior wing scored both Notre Dame goals, one in each half. 
Lovejoy's first goal came on an indirect kick. The Irish trailed Marquette 2-1 at half­time and then fell back 3-1 early in the second period. Lovejoy, a Seattle, Wash. native, put the Irish back within one after a score midway in the final half with an assist from SamiKahali. 
Marquette tailed its final score on a breakaway goal with less than a minute remaining in the game. ·Notre Dame had pulled it's goalie prior to the point, hoping for a powerplay goal to tie the game. 
In the Spartan contest it was freshman Rob Snyder ofDallas, Tex. who managed the only Irish goal. 
Notre Dame will host Bethel on Wednesday in a game slated to begin at 4 p.m. on Stepan Center Field. 
Social life 
Surveys 
due today 
All Student Government Social Life Surveys should be returned today in order that they may be processed before the Board of Trustees meeting. Your co­operation is greatly appre_ciated. 

• . 
: ATTENTION : 
. : • 
: Dean Link : 
: Will discuss the study of law : : at Notre Dame's Law School: : 
: Admissi.ons, financial aid, : • joint degrees, etc. • 
e WHO: Dean Link and ND Law Students e e WHEN: Monday, October 6, 7 p.m. e 
• WHERE: Hayes-Healey Auditorium e
• 

Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institutton. The news is reponed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are rhe views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Managing Editor................... Mark Rust Rditoria/5 Editor ............... Mike Onufrak Senior Copy Editor ............. .. Lynne Daley Exewtive Nm's Editor .......... Tom Jackman News Editor .. .................. Pam Degnan SMC Exewtive Editor .......... Margie Brassil SMC News Editor ............. .. Mary Leavitt 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief. ................ Paul Mullaney· Sports Editor .................. Beth Huffman 
Featum Editor................. Molly Woulfe Photo Editor .................... .John Macor Bwiness Manager ............... Greg Hedges Crmtroller................... .......Jim Rudd Advertising Ma11ager ... ............. Mark Ellis Circulation Manager .......... ... Beth Hackett Production Manager ............John McGrath 



The Observer • Monday, October 6, 1980-page 7 

• • • Battle 
• • • Three 
NOTRE DAME FALL INVITATIONAL 
yards, the Columbus, Indiana that call."
Friday's Results 

[continued from page 8) 
native demonstrated a certain Notre Dame overcame their 
Notre Dame 8, W. Michigan 1 
over teams from that state to proficiency in running Notre mistakes in the fourth quarter
Indiana St. 5, Purdue 4[continued from page 8) Oral Roberts 7, Illinois St. 2 the north. Dame's varied attack. Ques­and went on to add two more Indiana 5, Miami (Ohio) 4 It was Carter, however, who tioned about Kiel's status for Oliver field goals and a one yard
Oliver's four-for-four field ignited the Irish rally in the the Miami game next week, touchdown run by Jim Stone.
goal day tied the Notre Dame Saturday's Results 
second half by continually Devine replied, ''I'm not really Stone's touchdown was set up
record for most field goals in a 
Notre Dame 8, Purdue 1 
breaking tackles and squirming prepared to answer that ques­by a 53 yard burst by the ever­
game. Chuck Male outscored W. Michigan 6, Indiana St. 3 Miami (Ohio) 7, IUinols St. 2 for extra yardage in an intense tion at this point. Blair did a present Carter, who went on to
the Wolverines 12-10 last year Indiana 6, Oral Roberts 3 show of great individual effort. good job, but Mike does a good break his old buddy Vagasto set that mark. 
Despite the relatively close job also." ·Ferguson's record of 255 yards
The second Oliver record Notre Dame 5, Indiana st. 4 
W. Michigan 7, Purdue 2 score of the game, it was the Taking advantage of the in one game. Carter's new rec­
came on his fourth field goal, as 
Indiana 8, IHinols St. 1 
punishing Irish running attack line's dominance of Michigan ord stood for only one play
the junior kicked across his Miami (Ohio) 5, Oral Roberts 4 
that took control in the second State's defensive front, Kiel and however, as on his last carry he
fourteenth point of the game. 
Championship Final half. In holding the ball for over company finally took the lead in was stopped for a loss of two
The 5-11, 165-pounder passed 
Notre Dame 5, Indiana 0 
11 minutes in the third quarter, the third period. After Stacey yards to give him his final total
Bob Thomas' stats of 13 points the Notre Dame offense used Toran's returned one of Rav of 254.
in a game by a placekicker in a 
FINAL STANlHNGS 

its potent runers on all but two Stachowicz's booming punts 1isingle game. Thomas booted 
111-NOTRE I>AME r4-0)_ plays, showing the complete yards to the Notre Dame 49
his high in 1972 against North­The toll of this fiercly fought
2nd-Indiana (3-1) 
dominence exhibited by the yard line, the offense ran eight
western, connecting on four ex­3rd-Miami-Ohio (2-1) game was felt greatly by tht: 
(tie) W. Michigan (2-1) offensive line. straight running plays, the last
tra point attempts and three Irish. Carter will be consider­
5th -Indiana St. (1-2) Another important factor in being a 12 yard touchdown
field goals. (tie) Oral Roberts (1·2) ably restricted for several days
Notre Dame's second halfshow jaunt by Carter. This touch­
"I was a little surprised," said 7th -Illinois St. (0-3) this week due to a deep thigh
(tie) Purdue (0-3) was the sudden appearance of down proved to be the turning
Oliver of his two records. "I bruise he suffered towards the
freshman quarterback Blair · _t.>oint for the frustrated offense
never really expected to do it. I end of the game. Don Kidd will
Kiel. Kiel's confident manner who had racked up big yardagt
was really happy to help the also be off his feet for an un­
but been excluded from the endteam against a strong Michigan Field Hockey and genuine talent guided the determined period of time be­
Irish to 20 points in the second zone.
State team." cause of ligament injury, giving
stanza, giving one ample reason Despite taking things more in
Oliver, who had fellow Depauw 1, Notre Dame 0 DOT one reason to believe that most 
Notre Dame 1, Lake Forest 0 to speculate thatKiel is pushing hand in the second half, the
Moellergraduate Dave Condeni of the hits evident in the game
starter Mike Courey a little continued the­
hold'ing in place of the injured Saint Mary's def. Hanover 15-5, 15-7 Irish to hurt were as vicious as they appear­
more for the starting job. In selves with numerous penalties,
Tim Koegel, claimed his game­Indiana State def. Saint Mary's 15-6, ed. On a positive injury note, 
two 15-5 1 completing 5 of10 passes for 56 came key
winning boot weeks ago most of which on Tim Huffman should return for 
Marion 3, Saint Mary's 0 plays. Devine realized the ser­
had given him added confi­next week's crucial Miami game dence. iousness of such a trend, but as should left guard Robb
made no excuses for his team.
"I'm a little more relaxed this Gagnon, who is still recovering
"We have no alibis whatso­
week," said Oliver, who ac­from a torn calf muscle sus­
ever. They were a good football
knowledge Condeni and snap­tained two weeks ago against_
team and they caused us to
per Bill Siewe for a job well Michigan.
make some errors."
done. "Knowing that I made Two penalties that stand tallsomething that long helped my In preparing for the show­in most observer's minds wereattitude going in to kick." 
down with undefeated Miami,

called on Tim Marshall anq
Oliver's poise has not gone Irish most certainly
the willTom DeSiato for unecessary

unnoticed by Irish fans-their concentrate on erasing the
roughness. Both calls wereconfidence in him far surpasses mental errors that plagued the
termed questionable by De­the skeptism of weeks prior to team for tnuch of the game.
vine, who thought the officials
his "miracle." 
Incurring 11 penalties can be amisjudged his player's actions.

"The one thing about Oliver most crucial factor in any game,"I don't think a freshman like
is he's cool," commented a stu­
but the Irish overcame these

Marshall should get a reputa­dent after the win. "He is cool early season mistakes in finetions for giving cheap shots be­
no matter how big the job, he 
fashion as they prepare for thecause of a mistake made by anknows he has to kick the ball." 

middle of their schedule.

official. There was no need for 


• 
.. ...__.

........................----------~------------------------------------~...It _..~·--------------------·~---------­
---~----­
Monday,_ October 6, 1980-page 8 


Irish win hard-fought battle 
Playing befon?76,826 chilled ed the ball to flanker Otis Grant
by Mike 0/emk 
spectators in Spartan Stadium, on the first play of the drive for
Sports Wn.ter 

Michigan State asserted itself an end-around that resulted in a 
Spearheaded by the record­early by making some big pl_ays 21 yard gain which set up Mor­setting rushing of sophomore and forcing Notre Dame into , ton Anderson's 29 yard field sensation Phil Carter, Notre making several mental mis­goal, This play characterized Dame advanced past the last of takes. Within seven minutes of the Spartan offense in the first their Big-Ten opponents with a the opening kick-off, the Irish half, as they consistently kept hard-fought 26-21 win over the found themselves trailing the Notre Dame's defense off bal­
Michigan State Spartans. In inspired Spartans by nine, giv­ance. their first appearance on for­ing Dan Devine good reason to On their next series, the eign turf this season, the Irish believe that this was to be just Spartans successfully gambled amassed 509 total yards in an like any other game in this long on a fourth and two play when impressive display of ball con­rivalry. Leister went around left end on trol offense. "Michigan State has got a an option pas~ play that gained 
Leading the way on the good football team. They were four crucial yards. Five plays ground was the Tacoma, Wash-1-3 two years ago after we beat later, after an effective mixture 
f 
,ington native who tore through them and I said they were good of passing and running, Steve 
l the Spartan defense for ~54 then. They went on to win the Smith vaulted into the end zone vards on a new all-time Notre rest of their games that season, for the first touchdown sur­Dame record of 40 carries. so their record doesn't neces­rendered in the first quarter by Running behind an offensive sarily show how good a team Notre Dame this year. line that continues to improve they have." A problem that eventually each game, Carter hurled him­MSU showed their intentions haunted the Irish for most of self into the national limelight of giving the Irish a tough game the afternoon became evident with one of the most memor­early as they scored on the!r in their ensuing drive when a able performances ever by an second possession. Sophomore holding penalty stalled a well­Irish running back. quarterbackJohn Leister hand-engineered drive and Harry Oliver was called upon to kick a 44 yard field goal to put the Irish on the board. This was one
'Big Three' for Irish 
of four that Oliver kicked on 
the afternoon, tying Chuck 
Male's record for most in a sin­
guide team to 26-21 win 
gle game by a Irish player. Oliver's 14 total points in the by Beth Huffman tim~.: left." game earned him his own spot The rushing work-horse was in the Notre Dame record book
Sports Editor 

injured in the game, and suf­as he continued his mastery fered a bruised right thigh, but
It was _the Big Three -Phil 
is listed as a probable starter for [continued on page 7]
Carter, Blair Kiel and Harry 
next week's game.

Oliver-that led the Irish of­
Packing a slightly softer, but
fense to a 26-21 win over a 
nonetheless crucial punch for
surprisingly· tough Michigan 
the Irish offensive squad was
I State team on Saturday. 
( freshman Blair Kiel. Kiel, who
Isn't it strange that these 
I directed Notre Dame for the
same three were relatively un­
Irish take men'S tennis title 
final 41 seconds against Mich­
( known to Notre Dame follow­
I igan two weeks ago, rushed
ers before the start of the 1980
I eight times for 45 yards against
I campaign? the Spartans and was 5-1 0 in the
Carter, a Tacoma, Wash. na­by Mifhael Ortman State, three teams Notre Dame evening. A late afternoon shower aerial attack for 56 yards.
' 
tive, was the first of the trio to As.rociate Sports Editor had beaten last spring. The other forced the final match from th~ gain recognition for his grid Kiel, who also punted four four teams, Miami (Ohio), Oral Courtney Tennis Center into the talents. times for a .38-yard aven~ge, led Notre Dame's men's tennis Roberts, Indiana and Illinois ACC. It also persuaded the other What did the quiet, rather his team to 23 of the final 26 team made it quite clear this State (the team that eliminated six teams to waive their final points. The Columbus, Ind., weekend that it will be a power to the Irish last fall), fought it out in matches, settle for positional ties,
small (5-10, 193 pounds) soph­
native entered the game just be reckoned with in the Midwest the "Gold" Division. and head home.
omore do against the Spartans? 
during the regular spring season,
prior to the halftime buzzer, After coasting through their The Irish and the Hoosiers
Behind the comm~ndable 
by trouncing sectional rivals
marched his team within the preliminary matches by a com­paired off in doubles first, and
blocking of his offensive line, 
the 20-year-old halfback rushed field goal range ofHarry Oliver, Western Michigan (8-1~, Purdue posite score of21-6, Notre Dame the host team went right to work.
(8-1), Indiana State 5-4) and 
I and impressed his coaches so faced Indiana, undefeated in Notre Dame's top duo ofseniors
for 254 yards in 40 carries. His Indiana (5-0) to win t e Notre
' 
"Gold" Division play, in the
much that theydecided to start
rushing total was just one yard .Dame Fall Invitational. 
the 6-1, 200-pounder in the fin­championship final Saturday [continued on page 5] 

short of surpassing Vagas The two-day, eight-team tour­< Ferguson's all-time game high al half. nament was plagued by rain from ' \ for an Irish player. Ferguson, "Coach told me when we start to finish, yet that did not 
were going to the locker room seem to bother the determinedn-:>w with the New England Pat­
at halftime that they were going Irish as they regained the title;·iots, ran for 25 5 yards on just to start me," said Kiel. "I was a which Miami (Ohio) held for four30 carries against Georgia Tech
T
: little scared when I left the field, ofthe last five years. Notre Dame
in 1978. 

but I knew they had the confi­had won the coveted Olen Parks
"You mean he would have 
Cup only twice before in the
dence to put me in and I was
broken his buddy Vagas 
trophy's 11-year history (1971
going out to do the job."

Ferguson's record?" said Dan 
and 1974).

"Our offensive line did a fan­Devine after the game. "Vagas Everything seemed to be goingtastic job, they pulled ustS his biggest fan. He would have right for Coach Tom Fallon and
through the game, I never had
been h<tppier than anybody his team,from their high quality
much pressure and Phil Carterabout it." 
play to the blind draw which
did a great job."

Carter, who actually had the determined groupings andKiel, who often works out ofrecord with 256 yards at one schedule of play.
the shotgun, was unsure as to
-->oint in the game, lost two The team's performance sur­
who will start next week's game
.-ards on his final carry; thus, prised many people, including
against the 4-0 Hurricanes of
-cliquishing the chance to set Fallon. "I saw this weekend that 
Miami as was Devine. But the
he milestone. every guy on the team has 
first-year signal caller claimed
The young man who carried improved over the summer," he 
he would acc~pt any decision.
he ball only 27 times last year said. "That doesn't always
"I'll work my hardest and
or 145 vards did carve one re­happen. .:ord into the Notre Dame whatever happens, will hap­"I knew we had a determined books. His 40 carries was e­pen," said Kiel. team, but they showed me a few 
The final third of The Big things. I thought the loss of
nough to pass Ferguson's pre­
Three, Harry Oliver, a place­Carlton (Harris, last year'sdous single game high of39, set kicker from Cincinnati, Ohio captain) would hurt us more than-in 1977 against the same Tech who "saved" the Irish with a-51-it appears to have. But Herb
Yellow Jackets.

/ yard field goal against Michigan (Hopwood) has taken over ad­
Carter, who had no idea he 
earlier this year, also carved his mirably, both on and off the
~ was nea~ Ferguson's marks until ! after the game, said he was not name in theNotre Dame record court. He got the most out of 
books -twice. everybody."
worried about missing the re­
The draw put the Irish in thecord, after all "I'm only a soph-. 
Jcontt"nued on page 7} 
"Blue" Division with Purdue,
omore and there is plenty of Western Michi an and Indiana 
Players of the Gatne 

Phil Carter Blair Kiel 
by The Observer 

.Offensive Player -Phil Carter Defensit.Je Player -Though rushed for a 254 yards on a technically an offensive player, record 40 carries and scored punter Blair Kiel helped the one touchdown for the Irish. Irish denial squad with his 4 Honorable Mention-the entire boots for a 38 yard average. offensive line; Honorable Mention-Tom Des­
iato. 






