.. 
. . . Fr. Toohey -pages 6& 11 
lUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1980 
Stateofthe University 
Hesbuigh delivers address 
by Diane Mazurek 
University President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh de­livered his annual address to the faculty yesterday in Washington Hall, stressing hiS' "concern for excellence" in striving toward the goal of de­veloping a "great university." 
Hesburgh also discussed the continuing United Way faculty campaign on campus, saying "we're at the short yardage at the end ofthe field" in reaching the goal of $79,000 set for the University's educators. 
Hesburgh also noted that faculty pensions have been increased this year by $3,000, bringing the previously "inade­quate" appropriation to $10,000 per year. This money will be derived from a newly established $500,000 fund. 
The Notre Dame campus is again expanding according to Hesburgh. Newly acquired land in London will make possible further overseas study for the 

law and business schools in 
addition to other needs. In 
Jerusalem, an international 
group of advisors will be ex­
panding the already present 
theological study-abroad pro­
gram. 
Hesburgh continued by ex­
plaining that Notre Dame is 
also in the process of further 
development here on campus. 
The grand opening of the Snite 
Museum will mark the begin­
ning of the year's accomplish­
ments. The new women's 
dormitories are scheduled for 
completion in January and 
September, 1981', and the 
Engineering and Chemical 
Research are also expected to' 
be finished sometime in 1981. 
Hesburgh pleased the faculty 
when he told them that they will 
finally be "delivered from 
claustrophobia" after the 
University has finished 
"chasing a benefactor" for the ·new faculty office building. Another faculty problem, though, still persists. The 
University has made little ·progress in the hiring of mi­nority professors but great strides in admitting new women teachers. Fr. Hesburgh's plan is to "attract minority students to graduate school for potential 
professors." 
The bulk of Fr. Hesburgh's 
presentation concerned the 
purpose of a liberal arts col­
lege-"learning how to be 
someone, someone human." 
He sees a shift of morals in a school whose most popular course is Accounting, a "how to do" course, as opposed to a program equally balanced with classes in theology, philosophy, literature, music and the arts. He said, "We have a world to remake" and that can only be brought about by "teaching our young people to be human." 
Hesburgh appealed to the teachers of the "how to do" courses to give to their students a "hunger to learn more" and 
[continued on page 5] 


Father Toohey dies, Servicestomorrow 
by john M. Higgim Staff Reporter 
Fr. William A. Toohey, C.S.C., director of Campus 
Ministry since 1970, died yesterday morning. He was 50 years 
old. 
Toohey was hospitalized October 1 after he collapsed 
during a staff meeting following several days of "minor 
illness." He was pronounced dead at 11:32 a.m. yesterday at 
St. Joseph's Hospital. 
Doctors diagnosed his illness as a form ofviral encephalitis, and performed surgery last week to relieve increasing internal pressure on his brain. However, a·ccording to Holy Cross Superior Fr. Leonard Banas, when the problem recurred Sunday, the doctors were unable to operate. Toohey never regained consciousness. 
A native of Racine, Wise., Toohey served two years in the Marines following his graduation from Notre Dame in 1952. He entered the Congregation ofHoly Cross in 1954 and was ordained in 1961. His pastoral experience ranged from a chaplaincy at a federal reform school to religious education. 
He received a master's degree from Northwestern University in communications and public speaking and was a professor ofpreaching at Holy Cross College in Washington, DC, from 1962 until 1968. He joined the University's Department of Theology in 1968, the same year he was president of the Christian Preaching Conference. 
Toohey authored six books and over 80 articles, including a regular column in The Observer, expanding on the theme that a "Catholic university must be a place where people are touched by the creative, redeeming force of God's love." 
As director of Campus Ministry, Toohey felt ministry involved the entire Notre Dame community, not just its clerical and religious members. "We have got to expand the concept of 'ministry' beyond the notion that it's 'what the priests do,"' he commented when he was appointed in 1970. "There should be at Notre Dame a ministry of the whole community-men and women, religious and lay persons, faculty arfd students-in much the same way family members minister to one another." 
Toohey was a constant activist for social justice, viewing it as a matter of "human decency," saying, "Justice is an essential message ofthe Gospel." Many times he took a stand in favor of conscientious objection calling it "discipline and strength of consciousness" and the actions of objectors as "prophetic of our own realization of fault." 
In a reflection of his style of ministry, Toohey last year received the Reinhold Niebur Award, \Uhich "calls on ministers to stop creating devotion to abstract ideals which everyone accepts in theory and denies in practice and agonize over the value of such ideals and apply them to the 
[continued on page 5] 
A human rights activist 

Argentinian wins Nobel Prize 
OSLO, Norway (AP)-The 
1980 Nobel Peace Prize was 
awarded Monday to Adolfo 
Perez Esquivel, an Argentine 
human rights activist who bold­
ly challenged his country's 
military government and paid 
with more than a year in prison. 
The 48-year-old sculptor and 
architect was honored for 
having "shone a light in the 
darkness" ofArgentina during a 
period of leftist terrorism and 
right-wing government repres­
sion, the Norwegian Nabel 
Committee said. 
Perez Esquivel, who heads an organization called Peace and Justice Service, was chosen over 70 other nominees, inciuding President Carter, Pope John Paul II, and two of the ne­gotiators of the Rhodesian peace, British Foreign Secretary Lord Carrington and Zimbabwe Prime Minister Robert Mugabe. 
The prize carries a stipend of 
880,000 Swedish kronor, equi­
valent to $212,000. 
The winner told reporters in 
Buenos Aires the prize "does 
not belong to one person" but 
to all in his human rights 
movement. 

It was the third time in six years that an individual or group devoted to human rights work won the peace prize, one of five annual awards estab­"lished by the will ofthe Swedish inventor of dynamite, Alfred Nobel. The others were Soviet dissident Andrei Sakharov in 1975 and the prisoners-rights organization Amnesty 
International in 1977. 
Last year's peace prize went to Roman Catholic missionary Mother Teresa of Calcutta, India. 
· The Argentine was nomi­nated by the 1976 peace prize winners, Mairead Corrigan and Betty Williams of the Peace People movement in Northern Ireland. 
Perez Esquivel's acuvtsm, born in Argentina's mounting political violence of the late 1960s and early 1970s, was based on his own Roman Catholicism and on Indian leader Mohandas K. Gandhi's philosophy of non-violence. 
The Nobel committee noted that Perez Esquivel's organiza­tion works closely with Roman Catholic clergy who have be­come a major force for reform in Latin America. The organi­zation has helped rural laborers to obtain land and trade unions to protest workers' rights, chiefly through legal assistance. 
Perez Esquivel, whose sculp­tures have been widely dis­played in Argentine museums and galleries, gave up his po­sition as a professor of archi­tecture in Buenos Aires to de­vote his energies full-time' to human rights work. 


A new Student Senate? Today 'svotedecides 
by Sheila Shunick 
The fate of Paul Riehle's proposed new Student Senate will be decided in the referen­dum being held today. 
In order for the referendum to pass, 50 percent of the student body must vote and two-thirds of those voting must vote "Yes." Student Body President, Paul Riehle, en­courages all students to vote, saying, "We've done everything we can do. Now, it's up to them." 
Voting will take place in the dorms during lunch and dinner today. Off-Campus students will vote from4'to 7 p.m. in two precincts: Campus View resi­dents will vote at Campus View; off-campus students with zip code 46617 will vote at Notre Dame Apartments. All other off-campus students must vote 

in LaFortune from 11 to 2 p.m. 
The purpose of the new Student Senate would be to provide an organization with some degree of legislative power which would act as a liaison between the student body and the administration, acc.ording to Riehle, and it would also unify the many organizations already present in the Student Government. • 
The Senate would consist of the Student Body President, Student Body Vice-President, Student Government Treasurer, Student Union Director, Off-Campus Commissioner, Judicial Coordinator, HPC Chairman and representatives, off­campus representatives, class presidents, and four representa­tives to be chosen from the four districts on campus. 

-~-~~~-----~ 


NeWS Brief! 
Tuesday, October 14, 19so-page2 

~7,=~~~~F,p~~~==================~~
by Th'e Observer and The Associated Press Inside Tuesday 
time was running out for s~me, kept up around the clock 
yesterday and Algeria began a week of mourning for its dead. 
New earth tremors, one measuring 5.0 on the Richter scale, 
shook the city's ruins where teams of workers using cranes 
and giant earthmovers pried apart the concrete and twisted 
steel to save the injured and retrieve the dead. An aftershock 
of that severity is capable of c,ausing considerable damage, 
but none was reported. The first official count of bodies was 
1,500, but the Algerian Red trescent relief organization 
estimated 5,000-20,000 dead. There was no government 
estimate, but some officials exptessed hope the toll could be 
lower. The government declared the entire province of AI 
Asnaro, with more than a million\inhabitants, a disaster are;o 
and President -c:natili B~!l~·~ediorganized emergency 
measures from tent headquarte · he city. More than a fiftl1 of the population is believed to hav' '~en affected in some way. -AP ­
Six Turkish terrorists hijacked a 
furkish Airlines Boeing 727 jet with about 150 people 
1board yesterday during a flight from Istanbul to Ankara, the 
official Anatolia news agency reported. Earlier, the news 
a.g..bed reported that the hijackers demanded to be flown to e ran, Iran, and Turkish Television had said the hijackers were Iranians. The news agency said later the hijackers had made no demands. Sources said Turkish military sharp­shooters had surrounded the plane. The plane made a stop at the southeastern city of Diylrbak'ii, where the hijackers ordered the plane refueled and evacuated, sources said. I twas not known immediately if the passengers had been e­vacuated. -AP 
Menachem Begin, Israeli prime mini­
ster, called on the Jews of Europe yesterday to defend 
themselves against the awakening "savage animal" of anti­
semitism and to immigrate to Israel. Begin also condemned 
the Soviet Union and Syria, which he said were persecuting 
Jews and appealed to Western governments to campaign for 
emigration rights for Soviet and SyrianJews. Begin's strong 
speech opening the winter session of parliament, the 
Knesset, came amid growing concern over a wave of anti­
Semitic attacks in France, including the bombing of a Paris 
synagogue 10 days ago that killed four people. The 
synagogue bombing was at first attributed to neo-Fascists. 
Israel also claimed Palestinian terrorists may have been 
involved. The bombing focused attention on neo-Nazism in 
Europe, and Frenchmen jammed the Champs Elysee last 
week to demand action from President Valery Giscard 
d'Estaing's government.-AP 

Norman Mailer is all set for his fifth and sixth marriages, a spokesman for the Pulitzer Prize-winning writer said yesterday. There will, of course, be a "civilized divorce" in between. The tangled web ofMailer matrimony is aimed at honoring the years he spent in unwedded bliss with two women and at legitimizing the children born of those relationships, the Mailer spokesman confirmed. Mailer, who divorced his fourth wife, Beverly, on Sept. 24, has been living in Brooklyn for the last six years with red-haired Norris Church, mother of his 2 1/2-year-old son, John Buffalo. Young John is one of eight Mailer offspring. However, Mailer, who will be 58 in January, isn't marrying Miss Church-at least not right away. Instead, the 57-year-old writer will marry jazz-singer Carol Stevens, with whom he earlier lived for seven years. Miss Stevens and Mailer have a daughter, Maggie, who is 9. According to the account, Mailer wants to see that Maggie has parents who were, at some point, legally married. That accomplished, Mailer and Miss Stevens · will divorce and Mailer will wed Miss Church, thus legitimizing youngJohn Buffalo. The Brooklyn-born Mailer has been married four times so far and now supports 14 people with alimony and child support.-AP 

Reoublican Dan Ouayle has 

widene<f' his lead in the U.S. Senate rac;<ro more than 15 ~oints over Democratic incumbent Birch Bayh, pickihg up .upport among union members and independents, accotding to a statewide poll released yesterday. Results of the celephone survey of 810 registered voters by the Sociology Department of Indiana-Purdue University at Indianapolis bear more good news for other Republican candidates. Presidential nominee Ronald Reagan and gubernatorial candidate Robert D. Orr are out-polling their Democratic opponents by better than 2-1, the survey shows. In September, when IUPUI asked 810 voters who they preferred for senator, 34 percent said Quayle, 29.8 percent said Bayh, 31.9 percent were undecided and 4. 3 refused to answer. The results of the latest poll, which was taken between Oct. 8-12, showed 50.1 percent for Quayle, 34.8 percent for Bayh, 11.2 percent were undecided and 3.9 percent refused to answer. -AP 
Partly sunnyand a little warmer today with highs in the low to mid 60's. Partly cloudy and mild tonight with a slight chance of showers. Lows in the mid to upper 40's. Partly sunny and mild tomorrow-with highs in the upper 60s. 

A desoerate \search for survivors of AI Riehle explains proposal 
Asnam's eartltquake, more\ urgent for the knowledge that 

Paul Riehle has criss-crossed this campus obsessively in the past two weeks, like a misguided freshman late for his first class. Riehle's purpose is publicity, which he has drummed up creatively for his pet project, today's student referendum on the Student Senate. This included hiring a plane to fly around the football stadium Saturday with a banner exhorting students to "VOTE YES ON STUDENT SENATE." As a final attempt to where everything is put together? excise him from The Obsert~er offices, as well as A: Well, if a student is mad about something, ask some questions which deal with the real or wants some change, he says, "where am I issues at stake here, we decided to conduct one gonna go?" To the Board of Commissioners? final interview. Most people don't even know what that is. To 
Q: By my calculations, two-thirds of 50 percent is the HPC? Ifthey go there, they're gonna find out roughly 35 percent of the student body. Is that a that all they're talking about there is hall mandate? Do people wantto vote "yes," or are they doing issues....There isn't any legislative body that it just to help you out, because you've put so much time represents the students. :nto it? Q: O~nce, or if. the students say 'yes," then you have to 
A: Well, it can't hurt, it can only help. I think go to the Board of Trustees and get them to invest the the change we're talking about is a minimal Student Senate wrth the "legislative powers': as you change for anything to ever get accomplished termed it, ofthe CLC. Now W~flt happens rfthey say no? here, in terms ofstudent activism or student , ·'J\·:Thexwould say nq.becall§e they would say government. f. \ . .-··· ··. (' we alreadyhilve an existin,~ bogy, and I would say 
Q: Do you honestly t~fnkffhdfp'eople care whethrtror' •·•x•.,iLwemf.'w} o~positioq, wedori't go to the CLC. 

~7;;.::,~r,~~~fkf·~[~tl;~~f~{.d::,;~t;:~~i•k people belteve that 
A: Are you ~sumt.-·· ' t;g()t 35 pef¢~nt? t'bu tyl!l hal{e ~dt(ett filet on students. What real 
Q: Yeak. \ ··· W• iiwt [·• ~ ·~han~:J'~!f~!ht_f!m9~etj§JudentGovernment? How can
.1 

A: I thmk pepple at Notre D~m.~ ar¢ pre ..·. ''<;~.l,~if!fiiCis'ftjil~!)ts!J;·/ .'" concerned. I thlnk t ere's apathy ijer~ sirrt'?lf...,._,___ A: N\V1',~.e. q.9nqa/have elections for stude':t because of the l . . g;;!nst!tutioqs, pecati~e.,,_ _rs;)l,r,~,set}tatry~s ../!!bout the second week m people haven't ~v ..; . · q.·J,nftbJng.Jhappen i\, 'NoveryJlSer,,~a,~js gonna generate a lot ofissues. student governhleift. They've becori;le disi.""''·'Jh9fe issu.ts ~te what the Senate is going to take enchanted withf it, and I think people a~~' ·up ;.im!Jl-etltat'ely:~:~I··'thi{lk it will be very in­
channeling theif e~er&ie~ into getting ~rot1nl\~f~t'~!i,~fU~.".l9•.,,.,,~,~ whiclj issues the different the rules rather.;th<P.;·Ehrjh. to qhf1nge tqem. : /' ~9-did'at~!.~uppolt that, get elected, because 
Q: I agree. But(vhylhdiitl:TtiJeAdm'iftistratio11:;respeit,,( ~~se a5,¢'e 'e?tially the i~ues that we'll have to a Stu~ent Senate/my more than the CLC? Wh;f~,should f4i•follov.:f'~ , i ( they !tSten to thf!"l? ..· . ··... J~ _,.r · 1 Q: I don t ufu,{e.,r.!!.tf!J,d. MO'{t studentsfeel the same way 
A: I think tpey'Jl-haVe"fo"fespeclthoe"'S'fude,rtt -~bout mos~~issui{: ·voyou t1.nk there's gonna be students Senate because it'll have I?ore stu~ent bac~in&,,)-"' ~,at are f>!?.osel:b~N{;(t_!f!.J#Ii l{~ues? than the CLC ever posstbly coulp havo/.had: · '\ ;{\_: .l)l_o, '·t. thmk we rryght get a few more 
There are no groups of students saying '"\his is acltv!Stlc s~dents runn~ng for the Senate. I what we want," and being very vocal'apout th,~ir ,r~al.J-y think tl!ere're ~.J6t of students who are demands and needs. Also, with the S¢nate, Ydv/<"' real~y fed up w\~h a fy.w things, saying "I'm tired get some continuity into Student Go~t.nment~ of tf!is, Ijn ~!;_>tg(}i~\~tta.ke it any more." I think It took me, seriously, until this semester f3'tl~aUy·~~..,,they needl·"'A;tt~liitfe' to express their dis-know what I was doing in this office....With a satisfaction. i_.i Senate, you get a continuity of people and skills Q: I know, but how is that vehicle gonna be any within Senate positions. You also get... different ... 
Q: Continuity? That sounds like a buzzword to me. A: Because we don't have a vehicle right now. What does that mean? Something's better than nothing. 
A: Well, in the Board ofCommissioners or the Riehle is right there. Afterwards, Riehle ad-CLC, there's a turnover each year, and for mitted he was less than candid in this interview, example in the CLC, it took a halfa year for the but attributed it to anxiousness about the students in the CLC to realize what their role was outcome along with a weariness ofdiscussing the and how to be effective. The way the Senate's set thing. He wants desperately for the referendum up, there's a continuity in terms of repre-to pass, but nothing is certainwhen you take into sentation in the different positions....It takes account the remarkable apathy which dogs the more time when you've got such fragmentation. majority of students here. 
It can't hurt you to vote: the realization that the Administration will never listen to us is always a depressing one, but this new form of shouting at them might at least get their attention once in a while. 
Tired of Complaints? 
Want Action? 
Cast Your Vote for the 


STUDENT VOICE 
Vote ''YES" ODAYOctober 14 Pass the New Constitution! 


The_Ohs.erY-er '"Star Tn:k NiKht'" Captain Kirlt ... Ryan 'jim' Ver Berkmoes Mr. Spole ........... Ron 'Amok' Haynes Nurse Chapel. ......................... . Jeanne 'chicken soup' Laboe Lt. Uh11ra ............................ . Eileen 'hailing frequencies open' Murphy Yeomar. Rand ................... , ..... . Kvle 'a nice cabin' Woodward Chekot•..... Pat 'got 'em, captain' Byrnes Dr. McCoy ........................... . Tom 'a doctor, not a magician' Jackman Captai11 Pike .....•.............. , ..... . John 'before the accident' McGrath Edith Keeler .......................... . Carol 'look, a truck' Mullanev Mudd's Women ........................ : Michelle 'feeling younger' Kelleher, Suzy 'more youthful' Sulentic SIII/I ........•.....••...•........•..... John 'helm not responding' Higgins M5 ............ Tim 'engrams' Debelius Scotty ................................ . Mike 'I don't know how much of this she can stand' Ortman · Commodore Dedef'r ..................... . Ryan 'wig out' Ver Berkmoes Nomad .. ........ Bruce 'sterilize' Oakley Val................ Bill 'idol' FitzGerald Horta . .............John 'silicon' Macor Tribhln ...... Margie 'harmless' Brassil, Marv 'Miri' Leavitt Molly 'so~thing' Woulfe Hr:rh...rt .............................. . Mike 'headin' out to Eden' Onufrak  
Th1 Ob11rv1r (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing Till Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Obstrvtr is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved.  



......... 
The Observer Tuesday, October 14, 1980 -page 3 

On women's rights andeducation 


Candidates offer diversity 
by Anne jane Dreg alia exemption from such tradi­opinion questionable, to the 
tionally all-male standards as Democratic Platform. Editor's Noter: This is the the military draft, and excludes The policies were 1) the second of a sen·es examining any position on equal responsi­· withholding-of financial aid 
the key issues ofthis prest'den­bility for women. from candtdates whos do not 
tial campaign. This week: wo­The 1980 Democratic Conven­support ERA and 2) the advo­men's nghts and education. tion in New York City witnes­cation offederally-funded abor­Although they reversed a sed the arrival of more women tions for impoverished women. position held since 1940 the than ever before . In fact, Carter has literally ignored the ~epublican party boldJy ~cates one-half of the delegat~s pre­first policy in subsequent deal­m tts platform, "we affirm our sent ·were women. This pre-. ings with the issue, but has deep cornrriitment to the fulfill-sence put significant pressure endorsed the funding for poor 
· on President Carter, who fi­women. nally agreed to the installment [continued on page 5]of two new policies, in his

ISSUES'BO
***** 
ment of the hopes and aspi.r;­tions of all Americans. '' Yet Ronald Reagan ended his party's strong support for the Equal Rights Amendment this summer in Detroit, while in New york, Jimmy Carter acced­ed to the strongest feminist stand in Democratic history, and increased his party's sup­port for the amendment. Al­though time is running out for actual ratification of the ERA, it remains one of 1980's most 
. .
important issues. . 
Re&gan' s abandonment of the Equal Rights Amendment was the single most debated issue 

Finding time between classes and schoolwork to practice btllards provides in Detroit this past summer. A considerable amount of bitter­
junior Doug Ventura with some needed relaxation. (Photo by john Macor) 
ness was left on th convention floor when the only thing party moderates could manage to do was force the toning down of the language which ended a commitment the Republicans

Cancellation possible 
first sponsored in 1940. Reagan's stand caused so 
much disagreement that a par­

eye co-chairman, Mary Crisp, was forced ot wald out on the party , infuriated. Actually, the by Mary Fran Callahan commented. . Republican stand has chan_ged Senior Staff Reporter He explained that 1981 would from one pushing swift ratifica­mark the Festival's third year. tion of ERA, to one acknowled­Contemporary Arts Commis­The event celebrates the arts: In ging ''the legitimate efforts of sioner Bill Lawler is considering the past, seniors have displayed those who support or oppose cancelling the Senior Arts paintings, sculptures, photo­ratification.'' The platform ac­Festival due to the Class of 81's graphs, and architectural models. knowledges equal rights and apparent lack of interest in the They have also written and per­pooprtunities for women, but formed on stage, for the mcludes new areas advocating 
for Senior Arts Festival 

event. Last week Lawler advertised rationale behind the Festival is to for a person to fill the Festival incorporate all forms of art. 

r----------,
Chairman's positon. In the past, "When it was designed, it wa_<; • need printi1'1Q 110 or 15 usually apply for the 

supposed to be one last unified
post, according to Lawler. This 1 in a hurry?· 1
class activity for the seniors 
year, however, only one person 

before they get out," Lawler 
· submitted an application. 1100 -llxl7 postersl
commented. He added that
Lawler declared yesterday that 

budgetary concerns would not
if seniors show no interest in the influence his decision to retain or I only$10.00 I Festival before break, he will cancel the event.

cancel the week-long event. I I 
"The whole idea ofthe Festival "I'd hate to cancel it, but if I -rl 203 N. Main I is to get the seniors involved. If there's no interest, then there's I ... I there's no interest in it, then it no point in having it," Lawler 
1• South Bend I
would be silly to have it," Lawler concluded. 
I 1I 
J• 



Uhe WinJjamffzer 
HAIR STYLING FOR DISCRIMINATING MEN 1!. WOMEN 


1637 Lincoln Way West -Sour!. B•nd. lnd•ana 46621 


Sl.OOOFF 

ANY CUT AND STYLE WITH NDfsMC ID expires October 31, 1980 
ASK THEM WHY 
l 
.·· •.. II ·~··.·......__·· .•. 
1 ~• +ir: , ...
... "t .·. .~ .•~ .. . . .. .. 
,., ; J )~-.. ..,l ... . •'io. -..,.).. 
. ..... '*"·M ., 
Ask a Peace Corps volunteer why he teaches business marke~i'19 techniques to vegetable farmers in(Costa Rica. Ask a VISTA volunteer why she organizes the rural poor in Arkansas to set-up food co-ops. They'll probably say they want to help people, want to use their skills, be involved in social change, maybe travel, learn a new language or experience another culture. 
Ask them: Register now atPlacement 
Office for interviews: Wed. &Thurs. 

Oct. 29-30 



TheObserver 
Pirates? 







Bizarre doings off Bahamas 
by Kathy Martin Associated Press Writer 
MIAMI-A bloody, bullet­pocked sloop, adrift off a re­mote Bahamian island. The bloated body of , man, seen dangling in the v.-,. er h·a gone the next day. The cop of a woman's peach-colored bi~~ni, but no trace of its owner.· I 
The disappearance /of \ a Florida c: •uple in the Baharrias this summer, coupled' with te­lease of "The Island;" a movie about modern-day Blackbeards preying on yacpters, has revived stories-and ·. fears-about pirates in the island-dotted waters between Florida and South America. 
"I see some of the letters coming in from the yachtsmen saying they won't cruise in the Bahamas until they can be as­sured of their safety," said Bill Kalis, a Bahamian officiak_ "I know of only a handful of incidents, but because of the dramatic nature ofthe movie, it 



TUESDAY 
OCTOBER14 
7pm-3am 
BUDWEISER 
DRAFTS 3/$1.00 CANS 2/$1.00 
i 
I 
let's jam! 
l 
the notre dame student union presents 

~~ country rock jam!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
featuring thevassar clements band john hall heartsfield 
, radioflyer rich prezioso & kevin quigley 
tickets: $5.00 general admission $4.00 w. n.d./smc i.d. 
available at: ndsu ticket office m-f (12-4} all river city record stores 
chicken barbecue 5-8 p.m. tickets $3.50 



sat. nov. 1st. stepan center 
has certainly exacerbated the situation." 
There's little hope Bill and Patty Kamerer survived to tell what happened as the Kalia III lay offPipe Cay in the Bahamas. Mrs. Kamerer's blood-smeared eyeglasses were found on 

board, but their hunting rifle 
and money were gone. 
Most government officials scoff at pirate tales, and Coast Guard officials blame foul weather, mechanical trouble or poor seamanship for most missing boats. But drug en­forcement agents admit they can't rule out involvement by drug traffickers. 
"There's more of this stuff going on than people ever hear about," says Francis Kelly of Jacksonville, Fla., whose sister vanished last year o!l a cruise. 
"The average yachtsman is a sitting duck out there." 
"You just don't go there alone and unarmed. It's like walking in the South Bronx at night-asking for trouble," 
said  Misty  Devine,  a  St.  
Petersburg,  Fla.,  yachting  
writer  who  has  cruised  the  

Bahamas for 16 years. 
Of the roughly 200 missing boats in the area that the Coast Guard looks for each year, 25 are classified "unresolved overdue," said Lt. Cmdr. James Harrison, chief of the Coast Guard Law Enforcement Operations Center in Washington, D.C. He says the figures have remained constant, and the six documented boat hijackings occurred between 1971 and 1977. 
He says drug smugglers buy boats. "There is such an enor­mous amount of money to be made, the last thing they want is to have the Coast Guard looking for them" for a stolen boat, Harrison said. 
Federaldrug agents are not so sure. 
"There's probably a good chance these kinds ofsituations do involve drug traffickers­
who are as ruthless as any­body-but we just don't have the documentation to back it up," said David Hoover, a U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration spokesman in Washin~ton. 
"But boats are lost and people die," he said. "They're gone and we don't have any way of investigating." 
Kathleen Kelly and three friends were headed to Aruba in June, 1979, when the 52-foot Divorsea dropped from sight off Venezuela. It was the peak of the marijuana harvest, and Kelly suspects his sister was the victim of drug runners. ···There was no evidence whatsoever of the boat going down," he said. 
Bahamian officials speculate 55-year-old Bill Kamerer and his wife happened onto a drug operation and were slain. "It's an area where there has been considerable drug trafficking," said Kalis. 
But Kalis said: "Unless some­one comes forward with in­formation, it looks like it will be very difficult to pursue this." 
Bill Kamerer Jr. says he doesn't know what to believe about the case of his father and stepmother. "It was an awful high risk for a common theft and it was way too sloppy for a drug incident." 
The Kamerers left Florida in April on a six-month cruise of the Caribbean and the Bahamas. They disappeared be­tween July 25, when Mrs. Kamerer made the last entry in the ship's log, andJuly 29, when Illinois state Rep. Harry 
[continued on page 5] 

Tuesday, October 14, 1980 -page 4 


Democratic Representative john Brademas answered questions posed by the small crowd that attended his speech in the library auditorium. (Photo by .John Macor) 
Rep. Brademasaddresses minimalcrowdin libr 
by Katie McDonnell 
"Even with all ofits deficiencies in order and process," said CongressmanJohn Brademas (D-Ind), "the government of the United States is still the most open, free, tolerant and effective system conceivable, and I'm proud to be a part of it." 
With these words, Brademas expressed one of his main reasons for pursuing re-election to his post as Representative for the Third Congressional District of Indiana, at a public 

question/answer  presentation  last  night  in  the  Library  
Auditorium.  
Responding  to  inquiries  on  topics  such  as  energy,  

abortion, environmental protection and the stability of Congress today, Brademas based his positions on his 22-year experience in the House of Representatives, in hopes of securing support for the Nov. 4 election which, he says, he "intends to win." 
While confirming the majority ofhis views on the national level, Brademas also expressed his support of specific programs in the northern Indiana area, too. In particular, Brademas sees the need for a greater participation from this region in the energy-conservation movements, and in the process of environmental reindustrialization, as well. 

"Although the environmental improvements may begin through the rebuilding of transportation systems and mass transit possibilities," he says, "I believe there is a need for more links between the University of Notre Dame and the business community, as well. It seems as though there is a great deal overlooked in all that the University has to offer the community in, for example, its own Engineering School." 
Another answer to this problem, Brademas feels, lies in the improvement oflabor/management relationships within the United States. "Better communication," he says, "depends on the avoidance of intense relations between the two concerning all issues, and the attempt, especially, to formulate strategy for the reindustrialization between public and private funds." 
"We must," he adds, "be practical and pragmatic." 

Responding to questions concerning abortion, Brademas reiterated his position, stating that he wants to outlaw the use of federal funds providing for abortions, except in cases wherein: 1) the life of the mother is in danger; or 2) the incidence of rape or incest is·promptly reported. 
Although he was reminded of his voting record on such legislation, in which he supported the use ofoftax money to fund abortions 22 times, Brademas justified his actions by citing programs which he co-sponsored, with hopes of "reducing the incidence of abortions," in general. These programs include the involvement in foster homes, counseling for teenage pregnancies and the fair treatment of pregnant employees by their firms. 
Concerning the criticisms of Congress today involving accusations of disloyalty among its members towards party discipline and platforms, Brademas expressed his acceptance of this fact and his wish for the improvement of the party structures as well. 
"There is no loyalty," he says, "because these political parties are eroding as institutions in the United States. This is the result of: 1) the rise oftelevision as the principle means of communication; and 2) the rise of the civil service and the merit system, which eventually lead to people splitting their ballots on any given issue." 
Brademas does feel, however, that today's Congress has succeeded in establishing a great deal oflegislature within its course. "We dialogue, bargain, and negotiate through each of the issues facing the nation," he says, "but, then again, that's what we're here for." 
l 
f 
{ 
1. 
I 
I
I! 


McGEORGE SCHOOL OF LA\V UNIVERSITY OF THE PACIFIC 
SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA 
May 1, 1981 is application deadline for first-year students seeking Juris Doctor degree in 3-year Day or 4-year Evening program beginning in September 1981. Accredited: American Bar Association, Member, Association of American Law Schools. 
PRE-LAW DISCUSSION FOR PROSPECTIVE LAW STUDENTS 
DATE: TIME: PLACE: Wednesday 1:00 p.m. 
University of Notre Dame 
10/15/80 3:00p.m. 
For further information contact Dean Robert Waddick or Daniel K. Ryan Pre-Law Society, Univ. of Notre Dame 
-,_-----------------------------------------~--------....... 
·TheObserver-rontinueds Tuesday, October 14, 1980-page 5 
...Issues '80 
[continued from page 3] 
John Anderson strongly sup­pons ERA, and voted to extend ­the ratification deadline in 1978. He backs the Democratic policy of boycotting all unrati­fied states by not holding meetings, conferences or con­ventions there. 
Though Prof. J. Kevin Me Donnell, chairman of the St. Mary's philosophy department, stands 100 percent in favor of what the ERA amendment actually says, he does not agree with how "friends" of the amendment have interpret­ed it. He also does not see ERA as a politically significant issue, for he feels nothing can be done for it since Presidents Ford and Carter, who were both overwhelmingly pro-ERA, were unable to get It ratified. 
It is true that ERA carries mor more weight now as a symbol than as a policy since ratifica­
. tion is in teh hands of the .states, but as an issue it ~ontinues to raise significant rre. 
Abonion is the second hottest feminine issue in this election. There are three specific areas affecting this policy: the candi­date's personal view, their stand on the Supreme Court decision allowing abonion (and the subsequent constitutional amendment prol?osed to over­turn this decisiOn) and the issue of federal financial assis-~ tance for abortion. 
In theory, all three candidates have voiced their opposition to abortion in moral and ethical terms.]ohn Anderson, how­
. ' 
ever, recogmzes a woman s freedom to make her own choice with "the help from God and her physician." HOwever, both Anderson and Caner stand by the Supreme Court decision of 1973 thereby oppos­ing any proposed constitutional amendment. Both also support federal funds to finance abor­tions for low income women, though Caner also favors fede­
.. . Pirates 
[continued from page 4] 
Y ourell happened upon the 
yacht. , 
Y ourell took photographs. The cockpit was caked with blood; the starboard side was marred by a shotgun blast; a man's body was draped over the side of a dinghy. 
The body was gone when Bahamian police arrived a day later. Bahamian officials first denied there had been a body, but later admitted it was seen by officers who answered Yourell's distress call. 
There are other mysteries, including: 
-The Pollymere III, a 43-foot sport fishing vessel, disap­peared en route from the Bahamas to West Palm Beach, Fla., in April, with two retired businessmen aboard. 
-The Pirate's Lady, a 75-foot yacht, vanished after leaving Florida's Apalachicola harbor inJanuary 1977 for Clearwater, Fla. The $1 million vessel and two crewmen were never re­ported seen again. 
-The Flying Dutchman, a47­foot yacht, left Apalachicola in October 1976 carrying a Mobile, Ala., executive and three others. A note, saying, "Flying Dutchman. 3 Cubans on board," was found in a bottle on Gulf Coast beach three months later. 

ra1 payments if the mother's life is in danger or when pregnancy is a result of incest or rape. 
Ronald Reasan stands in ab­solute opposttion to abortion. The Republican family life in this area, and supports a constitutional amendment to ban abortion and ''protect the right to life for unborn child­ren. "Reagan's platform sup­pons effons to restrict the use of taxpayer's money to finance abonions, and Reagan stands by his belief that not financial 
assistance  should  be  offered  
even  when  the  life  of  the  
mother is in danger.  

McDonnell comm~nted that, like ERA, he feels that abortion is not an issue in this compaign because "none of the candi­dates will have the power to do what they propose. Reagan cannot get a constitutonal amendment, but in the same way the other candidates can­not stop a substantial popular movement for an amend­ment.'' 
McDonnell also pointed out that Anderson's stand on abor­tion is ambiguous because ' I if you accept the humanity of the fetus, then our whole tradition of law stands against giving any individual power of life and death over another per­son." 
In contrast, Prof. Claude reo­shaw, chairman of the Busi­ness and Economics Depan­ment at Saint Mary's , believes in "the right of the woman or the couple to decide whether to complete pregnancy or not.'' He also opposes government subsides for abortions, simply because he disagrees eith fede­ral financing for any medical expenses. "I feel the same way about an appendectomy,'' he added. 
''Education is a pillar ofa free society ... next to reli~ous train­ing and the home, it ts the mist important means by which families hand down to each generation their ideals and beliefs.'' Ronald Reagan has a strong belief in returning the responsibility ofeducation back to the parents and local offi­cials answerable to those pa­rents. He views present federal regulation as a harassment of the schools. 
The Democrats see educa­tion as an I'indespensable pre­requisite for effective demo­cracy'' and to that end support strengthening of federal pro­grams for education. President Carter boasts three major ad­
vances in the past four years; 
an increase of 7 3 percent in 
educational aid, the adoption of 
the Middle Income Student 
Assistance Act, and the crea­
tion of the Department of 
Education. 
Both Caner andReagan cite a great need for increased finan­cial assistance and the equali­zation of opportunity in educa­tion though their means of achieving this end vary signifi. candy. Carter has encouraged a steady increase in federal and state support, for the purpose of-equalizing or taking over all educational expenses. Meanwhile the Republicans, with the Reagan belief in "primacy of parental rights and resronsibilities,,' endorse financia assistance based <-n tax credits. This policy is intended to alleviate the finan· cial sacrifice within the family and equalize freedom for fami­lies to choose schools for their children which reflect their own cultural and moral values . 
Renshaw said, 1 'If govern· ment has any responsibility at all, it should be in the form of loans ... .I suppon better en­couragement of loans from the private sector. ' ' McDonnell agreed somewhat, saying, "the Republican platform IS showing more promise in SUJ?plying diversity and pluralism m edu­cation. The ideas of the Demo­crats ar.e very traditional, very tired.'' 
[continued from 
page lJ 
not to pack a mind with in· fOrmation but to teach them to integrate the old with the new. He said that by using one's imagination in the learning process, one will come away with more than was originally put in. "Small minds grow larger when struggling with larger minds," he said when asking the faculty to exercise the young minds of their stu­dents. 
By the same token, Hesburgh warned students not to simply accept the words of a favorite teacher or writer. "Soar with Shelley and Keats," he pleaded. Only through the recognition of beauty and a constant questioning of life's basic mysteries can we progress even one step closer to the dream of becoming a great university. 

• • .Fr. Toohey 
(continued from page 1) 
monumental issues which face us." "Preaching today will be successful," he wrote, "when it imitates the style that Jesus himself found successful." 
The Campus Ministry office has asked that in lieu offlowers contributions be made to the Bill Toohey Memorial Fund, in care of Campus Ministry. Funds received will be distributed amongst four groups to whom Toohey especially committed himself-the Holy Cross Justice and Peace Fund, Sister Marita's Primary Day School, Amnesty International, and the Farm Labor Organizing Committee. 
A wake is scheduled to begin this afternoon at 3:30 in the Lady Chapel atSacredHeartChurch with services by Fr. John Fitzgerald and Fr. Banas to begin at 7:30. Funeral services by Fr. TheodoreHesburghandahomilybyFr. ThomasMcNally wi11 be held tomorrow afternoon at 3:30 at Sacred Heart. Burial services at Community Cemetary on St. Mary's Road wi11 follow the funeral. 
In an article published several years ago, Toohey reflected on his own faith by quoting former United Nations Secretary Dag Hammarskjold: "I don't know who-or what-put the question. I don't know when it was. I don't even remember answering. But at some moment, I did answer yes to 
Someone-or  Something-and  from  that  hour  I  was  
certain  that  existence  is  meaningful  and  that  my  life,  
therefore, in self-surrender had a goal."  


AdreJSinK the facility and interested st11dents, Universriy President 
H esh11rg stressed the  importance ofliberal ed11cation  in his Jfate ofthe  
University speech in Washington Hallyesterday. Story  beginJ onpage one.  
(Photo hy]ohn Macor)  



Student LegalServices BASEMENT NOTRE DAME LAWSCHOOL ______~ LEGAL AID AND DEFENDER ASS.N 


.. 
RoomB-12 283-7795 9-4:30 

1-----othertimes byappointment -----. 

tiAIH STYliNG FOR DISCRIMINATING MfoN & WOMEN 

-Soulh 6t!nd. lnd1ana 46621
••sas
FIITII






l;:SOIS!r 

232-6622 
1U7LWWSOUTN.NO 


SUMMER PROGRAMS SMC -NO STUDENTS 
LONDON MAY 20-JUNE 19 
Travel in Ireland, Scotland, England and France 
ROME JUNE 15-JULY 14 
Travel in France, Germany, Italy and Switzerland. 
College courses available in Art, Business, Economics, Education, Government, History, Nursing, Italian. 
For Further Information Call: 

Prof. Anthony Black Office: 284-4948 Home: 272-3726 


--~-~~-~---~-----------------------~~---------------~-------------~ 

SP()f(J HOW 
GLAD 70

Q 1HIS FOr<. 
Q
A/3()(Jr YOU'? 
I YOf). SCE M&? 
I 
10·14 

Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of r~e University of ~otre Dame du ~.c and. Saint ~ary'~ C<?lle~e. Ir does nor ~ecessanly reflect the policies of the admmtstrauon of etther msmuuon. The news ~~ r.eporred as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represenr the opmton .of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are rhe v1ews :Jf their aur~hors. Column space is available to all members of the c~mmuntty, and rhe free expression of varying opinions on campus, through lerrers, 1s encouraged. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief . ................ Paul Mullaney Sports Editor .................. Beth Huffman Managing Editor ..._................ Mark Rust Features Edrtor . ..............•. Molly Woulfe Editorials Editor ............... Mike Onufrak Photo Edrtor ........ ............John Macor Senior Copy Editor .. ............. Lynne Daley Business Manager ........... : ... Greg Hedges Executive News Edrtor .......... Tom Jackman Controller......................... .Jim Rudd News Editor . ....... ·............ Pam Degnan Advertising Manager . ............... Mark Ellis SMC Executive Editor .......... Margie Brassil Circulatr'on Manager............. Beth Hackett SMC News Editor ............... Mary Leavitt Production Manager ._. ... , ......John McGrath 
IT fX£5N'T 
SIAIISH. I 
much of life. I didn't always agree with him, and I don't know what he would say about all of this, but I couldn't let him pass without an acknowledgement, albeit a tardy one, of his contributions to me and the community. There is a lesson here for me, and I hope all of us, about the way we live. To use one of the most over-abused, and thus dreaded, cliches, we have to stop and smell the roses a little more often. You never know when they' II be gone. 

The Observer -Founders' Day Supplement Tuesday, October 14, :1980-page 7 

Hallowing SMC history 





The Founders, heritage and spirit 
By Cathy Domanico In 185S, Saint Mary's College was chartered by the state of 
Saint Mary'c College has Indiana, making it the first come a long way since Fr. Catholic women's college em­Edward Sorin, C. S.C., arrived powered to grant degrees.
in the United States from Although St. Mary's of the LeMans, France, as a missi9n­Woods, Terre Haute, Indiana, ary hoping to found a college. is an older institution than St. Fr. Sorin got this opportunity in Mary's, their first charter did 1842 when Bishop de Ia Hai­not give them permission to landiere offered him an aban­grant degrees. The first Bache­doned mission in South Bend, lor of Arts degree awarded at 
Indiana, the future site of the St. Mary's was in 1899. University of Notre Dame. As enrollment increased,Fr. Sorin also had dreams of more buildings were construct­
educating the women of Amer­ed. In 1859, Holy House of 
ica. In 1850 in Bertrand, Loretto, the first permanentMichigan, the newly formed building on "campus" was Holy Cross community opened erected. Bertrand Hall, the 
a novitiate, St. Mary,s Academ, frist girl's dormitory, was built that taught orphans and child­in 1862. Although it is com­ren and cared for the sick. letely renovated, this buildingIn the beginning days of the s rill s rands . academy,in loco parentis was In 1903, Holy Cross Hall was ictroduced, and an entrance fee dedicated. Construction on 
of $5 was charged. The women LeMans Hall was completed in of the academy were educated 1925. Maurice Carroll, a form­in the arts, philosophy, relig­er Notre Dame student, was the 
ion, and the foreign languages. architect. In December of 1863, Fr. The Reidenger House, built Sorin met Sr. Angela. Soon, in 1939, became the classroom 
she was made directress of St. for home economics. Girls were Mary's Academy at Bertrand, brought to the house to with the tide "mother". 'al­learn how to cook, clean, and 
though enrollment at the acad­sew. This home economics emy was growing, the town of cl~ss prepard girls for mar­Bertrand was not and the ratge 
Presidents, from premier to present 
academy was then relocated. In 1966, Marion Mcandliss 
The new site for the academy Hall opened. Madeleva Hall became the 185 acres of land was dedicated in 1968, and accross the road from Notre Regina officially became a 
of colleges and Se~ondary ficult times. During herDame, a site chosen by Father women's residence hall. In schools in 1922, Saint Mary's administration, the first dayAlex Granger. The property previous years, Regina had 
Since it's accreditation as an 
College has had eight pres­students from South Bend werewas valued at $8,000. The been used for the Sisters of 
a Catholic institution ofhigher learning by idents, each advancing the admitted to the colleg
makings of fine Holy Cross. 
the Comittee of Accreditation of 
college to its respected role in Sister Madeleva Wolff bewomen's college were now [continued on page 10] the North Central Association women's education. came the third president ofunderwav. 
With the recommendation of Saint Mary's in 1934. Duringthe Comittee of Accreditation in her administration the 1903 the status of Saint Mary's Academy was moved from Holy 
Celebration continues 
was changed from an academy Cross Hall to the Erksine estate to a college by a state charter.
• 

Mother Pauhne O'Neill, di­

commemoratton 
rectress of the Academy since 1895, continued as head of the by Kerry O'Rourke ten, "The festival of St. Edward paper formerly published by St. college until 1931. Her is an anniversary dear to all at Mary's students, an account of intention was to make the 
Founders' Day has been cele­St. Mary's, for it is the patronal that year's celebration was pub­college completely separate brated at St. Mary's from the feast of the Very Rev. Father lished. from the academy. The inception of the college to this General, the venerated Found-"Founders' Day was cele­completion of this wish was day. The earliest available re­er ofSt. Mary's, and the devoted brated on the evening of Oct­fulfilled in part by the building cords, dating to 1892, show the friend of St. Mary's pupils. ober 12, when the seniors gave a of LeMans Hall to house the celebration already established "In organizations ofall kinds, charming dinner dance to the classrooms, dining hall, library 
as a tradition. 
special honor is ever shown college department. Colored and students' restdence. 
Father Edward Sorin, found­
those who were prime movers; caps, designating the class to Mother Pauline's ideals for 
er of Notre Dame, and Mother 
and in nearly all educational:,1• which each girl belonged, soft the college are best described
Angele Gillespie are the co­
institutions is 'Founder's Day' music, and a delicious dinner in this quote taken from Sister
founders of St. Mary's. Pre­
celebrated with great rejoicing. changed the atmosphere of the Mary Immaculate Creek's
viously, Founders' Day was 
This is as it should be; for, dining room into a miniature book, A Panorama: "We aim to 
celebrated on October 13, the 
surely, we owe a great debt of LaSalle Hotel on New Year's surround a girl with ideals of
feast day of St. Edward, but is 
gratitude to those who devoted Eve. " beauty in architecture, paint­
now not necessarily celebrated 
their best efforts to promote Miss Virginia Foley gave the ing, interior decorating, even
on that date since Fr. Sorin was 
measures tending to our ad-toast. Her aim was to instill in as, let us say, with ideals of
not the sole founder of St. 
vantage." the new girls a reverence and refinement, culture, goodness,
Mary's. 
In the November, 1926, issue and holiness. We educate her buiit in 1939 as a model forIn the October, 1892, issue of 
[continued on page 9]

of the Static, a mon~hly news-to standards of good taste not ' home Ecoq6mics students andthe St. Mary's Chimes it was writ-
only in living but in acting, in the Alumnae Centennial Li­order to develop the superior brary w~ built in 1942. In 1955 girl, who will be able to realize a long-,therished dream of Sr. the most of the opportunities Madekva's was realized with that are available.'' the tlmilding of O'Laughlin 
Mother Pauline retired in auditorium and Moreau Fine 1931 at the age of 77 after 36 Arts Center. After a fire in the years ·as head of Saint Mary's. laboratories in Holy Cross Hall, Under her Saint Mary's became the college saw the need to recognised through its mem­build the Science Building in bership in the Catholic Edu­1954. cation Association, North Cen­Under Sr. Madeleva a system tral Association, American of higher education of religious Council on Education, Ameri­teachers was developed and the can Federation of Arts and first graduate school of sacred International Federation of theology was developed for Catholic Alumnae. religious and lay women was 
Sister Irma Burns became the founded at Saint SMary's. The 
second president serving from graduate school lasted from 1931-1934. At this time the 1943 to 1967 and conferred both depression hit Saint Mary's in PhD's and MA's. 
the form of a diminished Sr. Madeleva recieved the student body and rescources, honorary degree of Doctor of but it still continued to function Letters from ND in 1953. The strongly. Sr. Irma man_aged to citation recognised her as a 
preserve the accomphshment Catholic educational leader, a already made, despite the dif­
[continued on page 8) 





! 
I l 
The Observer -Founders' Day Supplement 
Tuesday, October 14, 1980 -page 8 
l 
• • • Presidents 

opinion of those in higher authority, she had not moved fast enough in the direction of a merger.' 
Sr. Mary Grace then reques­ted exclaustration, (a canon­ically legal permission to live for a stated ume outside one' sa relegious community.) 
In the fall of 1967, during the contorversy over Sr. mary Grace's presidency, Monsignor John] .McGrath was invited to become acting president for one year. his appointment was a sharp break from the college tradition, but he was nationally known on the subject of the status of Catholic insitutions in their relation to both canon and civil law, and with the compli­cated problems which was facing every small Catholic college in the sixties, he was seen to be a good choice. 
After six months as acting president, the faculty recom­mended him for a permanent appointment. On September 29,1968 he was formally inau­gurated as Saint Mary's sicth president. he made revisions In the internal organization of the collge, principally thro!l_gh the appointments of new offi­cers m the administration and by redefining the channels of communication and authority . Under Fr. McGrath's term, a statement on the relationship between saint Mary's and Dame was drawn up by both schools, stating that the two institutions would remain au­tonomous yet continued to collaborate with expansion in all 
Msgr.JohnJ.McGrath 
In student affairs, beginning in September 1969, students were empowered to hold voting positions on all college commit­tees, concerned with academic affairs. In anticipation of protests resulting from the general student unrest, and particularly from incidents oc­curing at ND, Fr. McGrath, issued a statement on March 19, 1969 to deal with possible dissruptions. The regulation prevented any major dissrup­tions on campus. 
Monsignor McGrath, who had a cardiac condition when he first came to Saint Mary's, suffered a massive heart attack on June 7, 1970 and died twp days. later without regaining conswusness. 
Sr. Alma Peter then became acting president, bringin Saint Mary's through the conflict of two years during the attmpted merger. She became the target of attack from students who protested the decision not to merge. In recongnition of her position after the nonmerg­er, Notre Dame conferred on her the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws, citing her innovations in curriculm which lead to the Christian culture Program, the origination of forettn study programs and continued work with Notre dame in co-exchange pro­grams. after her term as acting president, Sr. Alma worked as director of the Saint Mary's Camous ih Rome and as administrative assistant at the college. 
Dr. Edward L. Henry be­came the first layman presi­dent of Saint Mary's in July 1972. Great changes were made as enrollemtn rose, core requiremtns were adapted to students' capabilitie~ and career needs. maJors were established in business admin­istration and psychology and the nursing deparment was revived. 
The Board of Regens at this time admitted a member of the faculty and a student with votins .Priveleges. a stronger recru1t1ng program was esta­blished to advance enrollment. 
Sr. henry had signed a 

three-year contract with Saint 
Mry' s when he took on the role 
of president. He resisned after 
two year, citing as hts reason, 
that what he had planned to 
accomplish in three years he 
had completed in two~ 
Dr. Wtlliam A. Hickey, vice 

president for academic affairs 
and dean of faculty took on the 
duties of acting president from 
1974-1975. During his one 
year as administrator, Dr. 
Hickey brought to completeion the transfer of assets from the Sisters of the Holy Cross to Saint mary's College Corpora­tion. he placed great stress on academics, developing new course options and major pro­grams on a three-to-five year­
1-'..._.......UJ:;. basis. 

Dr. Edward R. Henry 
Dr. Hickey resumed his tor­mer position in the college under Dr. Duggan's adminis­tration, a position he continues to hold. · 
In 1975 Dr. John M. Duggan became the eighth and current president of the college. Among his achievments as president have been the buil­dins. of the Angela Athletic Facility in 1977 and the present construction for the new librar­
y. Dr. Duggan has been instru­mental in raising the funds necessary for the new projects. The enrollment of the college has reached its highest level, with over 1800 students atten­ding Saint Mary's. Dr. Duggan has made himself readily available to student opinion through his active interest in student affairs. 


Dr. John M. Duggan 
I' [continued from page 7] poet, the founder of the first graduate school of theology for lay _persons and women of religious orders, and a patron of Christian culture. Sr. Madeleva was chosen as one of seven Women of Achievement for 1950 at the 27th annual Women's International Ex­position in New York City. S_!, Madeleva retired in May n; 1961 after 27 years as president at the age of 74. She remained at Saint Mary's and was appointed consultant to Sister Maria Renata, her suc­cessor. She continued to give lectures and write poetry until her death in 1964. She pub­lished more than 20 volumes of poetry and prose during her career as an administrator. 


Sister Madeleva 

Sr Maria Renata Daily served as the college's fourth pr~s­ident from 1961-1965. Durmg these years the beginnings of dissonance at the college became obvious as trends affecting all college campuses also reached Saint Mary's. Chane:es in attitudes r~sultino from the new stress on ecu­menism and the effort to broaden student concern in the world of politics, economics, national and international e­vents, to the disruptive trends of rebellion against authority, and the questionins of the Church as an institution began to shape and influence stu­dents. 
In A Panorama, Sr. Mary imm~culate writes on these times: 'To hold one administra­tion responsible for the phe­nomena that characterized an e~h would scarcely be cre­dible. Yet because Sr. Maria Renata's temperament was in peculiar oppositk n to the ' rebellious movement of the time, her namt: was often ~ssociated with minor erup­nons. 
During her administration, student government became functional on integrated execu­tive, legislative and judicial levels. Students also continued to be strongly involved in the missions, volunteer work and social conerns. 

Sister Maria Renata 
ne ot the major achieveme­ments of Sr. Maria Renata's administration was the co-ex­change program between Saint mary's and Notre Dame. The program began in 1964 and was expanded more fully in 1965 when Fr. Hesburgh and Sr. Maria Renata agreed on a more complete collaberation between the university and the college. 
Sr. Maria Renata resigned as president in 1965 due to the physical strain of the office and went on to head Saint Mary's College Foundation. In 1966 she taught in the department of history at Cardinal Cushing College until she retired in 1972 at the age of 69. 
Sr, Mary Grace Kos, who had been vice president during sr. Maria Renata's term, be­came the college's fifth presi­sent in 1965. The Parent's Council was founded during her term and the college succeeded in paying off a large pan of the government loan on the Sister Madeleva Memorial Building. Under Sr. Mary Grace's administration, a mas­ter's program in education was inaugurated by the college. The program, originated during Sr. Maria Renata's term, offered an MA in general education and in special educa­tion for the mentally retarded. This program was later discon­tinued in 1968 due to financial reasons. The ND-SMC Theatre also became an officially co­operative group in 1966 with Sr. Mary Grace's approval. 



Sister Mary Grace 
Even with these advance­

. ments, a large majority of the faculty becmae concerned that a strong administration was lacking during a tumultuous period that was facing the college. As Sr. Mary Immacu­late writes,' On the basis of these well-authenticated re­ports, and relying as well on their own experience and in­vestigation, ·the highest board of college governance. the su­perior general and her council, terminated at the end of November 1967. Sr. mary Grace's administration for Sister had refused to resign. Although her critics did not resort to publicity or to harsh denouncements, Sister inter­preted the dismissal and the judgements leading to it as personally damaging and detri­mental to the best interest of the college.' 
What followed was a public defense by Sr. Mary Grace, in which she denied the charges. 'One of her own motives for action,' writes Sr. Mary Imma­culate, 'and the princtpal one Sister mistakenly gave for the dismissal, concerned Saint Mary's hypothetical and future relationshtp with Notre Dame. Sister asserted that, -in th~ 


..-..-..--------------------------------------­
--~--­

The Observer -Founders'Day Supplement Tuesday, October 14, 1980 -page 9 



Whathappenedto theSMC-ND merger? 
by Mary Levitt At this time, Sr. Alma had Saint Mary's News Editor been named as acting Presi­dentofSt. Mary's upon Father 
''The 1 Saint Mary's College Mc'Grath's death. It was community as a whole recog· during ~er two year. term that nizes very clearly that its negotiations concermng a mer­future lies with Notre Dame... ger between Notre Dame and We have no reasonable expec­St. Mary's took place. tation of maintaining our stu­Cooperation between the two dent body or the quality of schools had long begun before education we offer if we go it the discussions for the mergeralone, and we know it.'' took place A co-exchange"Saint Mary's would experi­program had b~en implement· 
ence critical difficulties were ed in the fall of 1965 ' The Notre Dame to become intern­Speech and Drama depart·ally coeducational. The Uni­ments of the two schools were 
versity would become the more united in 1966. In 1969, a successful competitor for su­coordinating council was estab­
Nuns reflect on changes 
perior female applicants. And lished which issued a state­if·the University were to need ment whose main thesis was to withdraw the considerable 
that Notre Dame and St. 
by Mary Agnes Carey the sisters of the Holy Cross in the Saint Mary's academic opportunities and fi­Mary's should become coedu­community. "Many sisters previously at Saint nancial substdies now afforded 
cational with one another. 
Mary's have gone into areas other than edu­by co-exchange and other com­At At a Board of Trustees 
Most: Saint Mary's students witness the cation, such as parish ministry, so we now have a bined operations, it gould cre­meeting in 1970, the generalchanges of the college over a four-year period, smaller number ofthe sisters here," she said. Sr. ate quite a sharp setback for concensus was that the ''borad 
but other members of the Saint Mary's com­Kuhn noted that the Founder's Day celebration Saint Mary's." pattern of co-exchange has set munity have watched the college change over a is "an excellent way for Saint Mary's to re­''We are afraid of weakening the stage for the future expan­longer period of time. member its past, recall what is good, and build Notre-Dame's standards by 
sion of coeducation between 
Sister Eileen Marie Sheehan, who has served in on that tradition." lettin~ in less competent St. two closely-reJated institu the Saint Mary's community for 46 years, most Sister Raphaelita Whalen has served as both a Mary s faculty. We worry 
tions which, nonetheless, are recently in charge of student chapels, has teacher and an administrator at Saint Mary's. 
about having to carry in our desirous of maintaining theirwitnessed a variety ofchanges. "The girls used to After teaching both history and English, Sr. departments St. Mary's faculty traditional identities.'' Thehave many more restrictions placed upon them. Whalen was appointed head ofadmissions and is members who will not be able committed approved a study byThey were required to dress in uniforms and now a consultant to the adm1ssions office. In her to do their share of the three consultsants, two aca­
wear veils to church, but now these rules have· 17 years with the admissions office at Saint grinding work of graduate edu­demic and one financial, "to
disappeared," Sr. Sheehan explained. Mary's, Sr. Whalen notes that one of the most cation. Our experience tt~lls review objectively present pat­
"Now the girls are less disciplined and the memorable changes which did not occur was the us that too many of the
students are now more on their own. They must possible merger with Notre Dame. terns of cooperation and to
administrators at St. Mary's do
take the initiative to give Saint Mary's a good "At the time of the discussed merger," Sr. receive expert counsel from
not have the competence re­
name, and they are doing a good job of it," she Whalen explained, "many smaller schools were outside relevant to additional
quired for their jobs. Those of
stated. merging with larger schools who wete surviving. procedures. ' ' 
us who have had St. Mary's
Sr. Sheehan noted that today's Saint Mary's It seemed the spirit of the time to merge," she Lewis Mayhew and Rose­
girls in our classes through thestudents are more career-minded, and they also said. 
mary Parks were appointed aslast several years know that theexpress their opinions more openly than past Saint Mary's, however, did not merge with academic consultants and be­quaslity of the current St.
students. "The girls have more of a say now. Notre Dame, but instead remained "the size ofa gan their study in the fall ofMary's student is simply notThey are here with their objections and we hear school where the student can grow and we can 1970. At this time, someequal to ours:Notre Dame stu·
them," she said. · help in that growth," Sr. Whalen stated. (See members of the Saint Mary'sdents are better. " "Now the students have more of a chance to accompanying article for details on the merger.) 
CC?lleg community were uncer­make up their minds. They have more of an "The girls in the college are its biggest selling In the fall of 1955, when St. 
tain as to the future of theopportunity to be on their own," Sr. Sheehan point. Saint Mary's is so student-oriented that Mary's College was celebrating college since many Catholic
said. the girls are allowed to grow in more areas," she its hundredth anniversary, the women's colleges throughout
staff of the Blue Mantle wrote
Now in her fifth year at Saint Mary's, Sister M. said. 
the country had been forced toCampion Kuhn has served as archivist for the Many students, however, feel their growth a letter to the students of 2055 close their doors.
Congregation ofthe Sisters ofthe Holy Cross, as restricted by parietals and alcohol regulations, asking whether St. Mary's and When the Park-Mayhew Re­but Sr. Whalen notes that there are "certain Notre Dame would have merg­a member of the Saint Mary's Board of Regents, 
port appeared in December,
limitations to everything" and that the "assets of ed into one coed institu­and nowSr. Kuhn is the historian ofthe Sisters of 1970, it called attention to thethe college outdistance the liabilities." tion by that time? On Marchthe Holy Cross. 
dangers of either institution,According to Sr. Whalen, the Saint Mary's 21, 1971, just 16 years afterIn her work as archivist, Sr. Kuhn discovered but in particular Saint Marystudent's time at the college is "a chance for her this ''letter'' appeared, a meet·that Saint Mary's was advanced in the areas of 
physical education for women, special education to get on her feet as a woman... it's' her growing ing of the trustees of St. College, contnuing independ~ for deaf students, and Saint Mary's also offered time." She feels that Saint Mary's relationship Mary's College and Notre denrly, despite the fact that the the first graduate studies program for women in with ND "has not deteriorated at all, because Dame was held to examine the collge was experiencing no 
theology, although the program has been there's room for both groups of women." matter of coeducation. [continued on page 10) "To me," Sr. Whalen concludes, "Saint Mary's
dropped from the college's curriculum. 
is the place to grow."
Sr. ~uhn has also noticed the changing role of 
••• Celebration 
[conti'nued from page 7) 
honor that St. Mary's has always 
possessed for her founders. On 
behalf of the college depart­
ment she expressed the ap­
preciation for those who have 
carried on Fr. Sorin's work. 
"Ann and Andy, the famous 
rag dolls, were raffled offbefore 
the dinner, and their proud win­
ner, Miss Jane Wells, chaper­
oned them to the dance that was 
held in the evening. The Jack 
Curtis Notre Dame orchestra 
furnished the music." 
A new type of Founders' Day celebration was reported in the November, 1951, issue of the Static. "A world-wide Founders' Day was celebrated for the first time this year by St. Mary's alumnae throughout the world and by present students. 
"When the alumnae national board voted to initiate the an­nual observance of Founders' Day last April, it had hoped that this would be a beginning of reunions throughout the world of girls in appreciation of their Catholic education under the Sisters ofthe Holy Cross....This seems very much in ac-cord with the memory of Fr. Sorin, who, shortly before he died, said,"! 
shall leave two daughters to 
perpetuate my memory­
Notre Dame and St. Mary's." 
This year, on her 136th birth­
day, St. Mary's is again cele­
brating Founders' Day. The 
chairpersons for the celebra­
tion are Katie Conley, Erin 
Flood and Mimi McKelly. 
On Sunday morning the celebration began with a Founders' Day Community Mass in the Church of Loretto, followed in the afternoon by a recitation of poetry from the works ofSr. M. Madeleva, a past president of St. Mary's College, and also from the works of present St. Mary's students. 
The celebration continues today with a uniform revue on campus throughout the day. Students will be modeling uni­forms from past St. Mary's days, dating from 1860 to 1962. Also, throughout the day, an exhibit of historical pictures will be displayed in the LeMans lobby. Old registers and photographs from the 1800's will be fea­tured, plus pictures ofbuildings on campus before remodeling was done in recent years. Also in each hall there will be a display depicting its historical begin­
nings. Around campus look for 
signs describing the historical 
background of particular sites. 
Alunmae living in the area 
have been invited by th 
Founders' Day committee to 
dinner on campus and to par­
ticipate in the evening's activi-1 · 
ties. 
At 6:30 p.m. tonight a slide show entitled "St. Mary's Heri­tage: A Celebration ofWomen" will be shown in the Little Theatre. This is a new collec­tion ofslides gathered from last year's presentation, the ad­missions office and recent slides taken by Katie Conley. It offers a panoramic view of past and present life at St. Mary's. 
Following the slide show there will be a birthday cele­bration, complete with birth­day cake, in the lobby of the Little Theatre. All of the girls modeling uniforms will be present. Everyone is invited to attend and mingle with alum­nae and friends. 
-~------~~-'-'---~-'-'-==-===================:;..;;;..,;,;..;;.._____________
_ 
..~----------------~------------------------------------------------------------------~--~· 
·rhe Observer -Founders' Day Supplement 
Tuesday, October 14, 1980-page 10 
Founders' Day : A celebration 
by Kathleen Swemey Saint Mary's Student Body Prestdent 
Founder's Day is more than a slide show and birthday cake. It is more than remembering the past. 
Founder's Day is a celebration of women. We are celebrating the strength of a group of women dedicated to the total education of women before the idea of "women's education" became a lucrative business. This education consists not only of literature and history but also of the notion that each woman is an individual ofworth with a mind and a soul that is subordinate to no one. 
Each woman must decide who she is and not who she is going to be defined through. Each woman has the capacity to become whatever she chooses. 
These ideas seem fundamental to the core of any in­dividual. However, women today would not have these ..,upposed inalienable rights if not for women like the Sisters qf the Holy Cross, who are continually striving for the quality ('ducation of women. 
With the realization of the uniqueness of womanhood comes added utuses for jubilation. Women, in every sense of the word, are beings capable ofintense spiritual and political action. 
It is cause for celebration that Saint Mary's women are ;lctively involved in the workings of their society and the ministry of their Church. They are the women that run the races, write the poems, and support their party in elections. Thev are the ones who work at theJ ustke and Peace Center, Log~m and Head Start. Saint Mary's women are also the attorneys, Peace Corps volunteers, lay ministers, mothers and corporate executives. 
These Saint Mary's women, all of them, have a sense about them that is indeed a cause for celebration. They have behind them 1 )6 vears of tradition as solid as LcMans Hall. Without this fo~ndation, the present would not be so successful or their future so hopeful. 
Throughout the student body ofwomen, the diversity and reflection is apparent as it is threaded together by a bond of spirituality that could be present nowhere hut Saint Mary's. Let the celebration of women begin. 
---------:--::----­
[continued from page 7] With the completion of Moreau Hall, the Fine Arts building, artd O'Laughlin Aud­itorium in 1955, the Saint Mary's Fine Art's Department flourished. In 197 3, the Art Department was accepted into the National Association of schools of Art(NASA). In 1978, the Music Depart­ment received the same distinc­tion. Of the 17 new members accepted into the program, St. Mary's was the only Catholic women's liheral arts coJlege to 
...Founders 
be admitted. The college approved the Bachelor of Arts degree in music in 1980. 
From the first days of St. Mary's Academy in Bertrand to St. Mary's Colleg in 1980, history has been made. The changes in attitude and curricu­lum have been as apparent as the physical changes. One thing is for certain-aJl changes have been made for the better. Saint Mary's College is a traditional Catholic women's college striving to prepare wo­men for modern society. 

[continued from page 9] 

financial difficufties at the time. Conversely, it also cautioned against any 'precipi­tous action' in the direction of a merger. The report sug­gested as a compromise that 
'Saint Mary's College should join the University of Notre Dame as a seperate and dis­
tinctive entity operating within the larger university frame­work.' According to the Park­Mayhew timetable, Saint Mary's was scheduled to be­come a seperate and distinct entity withtn the university in 
May  of  1971,  three  months  
after  the  publication  of  the  
report.  

It soon becme apparent that Notre Orne wanted to go be­yond-the recommendations of the Park-Mayhew Report. The They wished to achieve a rapid and total merger, on the basis that this would be the most efficient and economical way to achieve the goal both institu­tions sousht, a truly coeduca­tional miheu. 
Saint Mary's, alarmed at hearing their worst fears reali· zed, reasserted their belief that the interests of higher educa­tion would be best served by preserving the identity of Saint Mary's within the University. At this point, sparks began to fly. Statements such as the ones at the beginning of this story were made, and a defi­nite impasse was reached. 
Saint Mary's within the Uni­versity. At this point, sparks began to fly. Statements such as the ones at the beginning of this story were made, and a definite impasse was reached. It was at this juncture that two boards met in March of 
1971. Unification was the recommendation, the very use of it implying the end of Saint Mary's in all but name. The 
merger document, under these conditions, was signed by both parties, but, as it later turned out, both parties had erred in this action. Each party wrong­ly assumed that the other party would accept its proposals or that a compromise could be 
reached.  Steps  were  then  
taken  that  should  not  ha~e  
been:  the merger was  made  

public and promises were 
made to students. 
Just six short months later, the boards of the two schools ''were unable to solve financial and administrative problems.'' the two schools pledged con­tinued collaboration. 
Then came the shock. The press release read, ''Notre Orne said it would admit its first women undergraduates next fall as freshmen and upper division transfer stu­dents, but the continuance of a six-year-old student exchange program with Saint Mary's was assured.'' 
The decision of the boards not to release details of the "non­merger'' raised anger which gave way to blatant rumor on both campuses. Students and faculty claimed that the decision was a viola­tio.n ~in~e they had had no voice 10 lt. 
The reaction of Saint Mary's students was unprecedented. There were protest meetings, class boycotts, letters to pa­rents, alumni, and trustees, movements to withhold tuition, transfer to other schools and registration solely for Notre Dame courses. Students hunJ 

Suppletnent Layout design by Margie Brassil, Ron Haynes, 

Rich Fischer 
Neu· Gnd t'Om· ,.l.t<rly <rquipp<rd buildincs ol b•auty and di•· nit)' on ~~ten•iu• c a m p u s OL'~r· looltine u1indin~ riuer. A iull~· accrf'ditell !1-tandant collrg~ for girl!l, cnnJtH'trtl l1y tlw ~icc· t~rs ("\f tht Hoh Cn,~:ro. C.-.ur~<'"' lt-acling t01· HarhC"Inr and )fa.;;.!t"rt(')arrs f>tollff'("C:, Cnltur~l anll rr\'ie>Hic)n,tl f'ducation. :.....C\Cinlogy. Homt F.co.. nomit.'"-• I·mrn.:di"'m. S.t'crctarial Training. Scieru.·t. Ttacht'r Tr.:umn~.olfe~e-­.. Dr:lmaic Art. l'••mm~n.·ial Art. F.nt Art~. C ·•11•'-t'f\ :tt••f\· nf '1nliiic mw~cf:'l1rd.otre.Doro~ Physirnl Training Ouidoor Sports Hor•ebarlc Riding r ,. .dtlJ.· ,, .1 j,j,.t···· THE REGISTRAR, ST. MARY'S COLLEGE, Box C, Notre Dame, Indiana  
ld<rdly situ«ted. •iwltty miles ~ast of Chica.o, near South il <r n d. lndianG, and t~.: Univerail)l of NotF~ DonN. A c•unmi~""ionf'd high S('"hool for girb, con~luctf"•t hy thr ~i~ttr .. f•T th<'" Hn!y Cr.... ~ ... On 3f'1>fC'IVf'd lit:.t nf Sf.,·ondary ~honl~ ,,f rhf" xllfth l"f"rUral A,:coc1:ation. Rrgu1ar high !"chno1 curriculum!'. \"nrational l"•lllr..c"'" in ~1 ut:.Jc. Jlramatic .-\rt, Fint' Art~. Homt­El·!-t\omics. and ( •·mmt-rC"ial ~11hjtct .... Ph11airal Training Outdoor Sports HorsebfJrk Riding PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT: hr<t ,.. Eio:hth l.n<l<>. inch,."·r. rr;r( (" iT.H.Pt, .1/1/IRE.\S THE REGISTRAR, ST. MARY'S GObbi'GE, Bo,. C, Notre Dam~, ladiana  

...Merger 
bedsheets from their windows emblazoned with such sayings as "Welcome to Screw U." and ''Will the last one out of Saint Mary's please turn out the lights?" Students per­sonally attacked Sr. Alma, insisting upon knowing the details of the unmaking of the merger. 

It was soon revealed that Saint Mary's had proposed an annual leasing fee for their property. These costs would be computed periodically by mu­tually acceptable consultants and any excess of leasing fee over expenses would be return­ed as a gift to the unified institution. Notre Dame reject­ed this proposal with an ulti­matum: either saint Mary's sell the property to Notre Dame or the two schools con­tinue as separate instututions. Since retention of ownership was a point thought to be understood by both schools prior to the merger announce­ment, Saint Mary's found it impossible to go along with the merger. 
Saint Mary's trustees pro­posed to Notre Dame renewed negotiations but nothing result­ed from the meetings. The merger was off incontestably. 
Somehow, the bad feelings died down and the day-to-day life at Saint Mary's went on. 1Be many predictions that Saint Mary's would cease to exist were soon seen for what they were: predictios, not reality. Just four years later, Saint Mary's had one of its highest enrollments in history. Obviosly, Saint Mary's found it impossible to go along with the merger. In 1975, Aimee Sue Beck­

mann,  valedictorian  for  her  
class,  gave  the  following  
speech  at  graduation  which  

commented on the "non­

merger'' and its after-effects "Several weeks ago, as I sat engage in a fit of nostalgic ·daydreaming, Ibegan recallmg the attitudes, policies, and atmosphere which permeated this campus, which was then known as Notre Dame West, when I entered the freshman class in 1971. OUrs was the class which was promised Notre Dame degrees...But in late November of 1971 that somewhat rose-colored dream was shattered by the an­nouncement that Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame would not merge...For the next few months most of us were caught up in a frenzy of activities ranging from attending meet­ings and boycotting classes to filling out transfer forms ... For­tunately for Saont Mary's, more forward-looking minds prevailed and the SMC com­munity found itself being called to decisive action...It was the action of these people, coupled with that of students who realized the truth of what they said and did, that was able to bring the women of Saint Mary's away from their self-doubts, help them to rea­lize their own potentials, and tomake Saint Mary's College a vehicle for implementing the goals of a liberal arts educa­tion. It was and is because of the actions of these people that the class of 1975 has been able to see the transition of Saint Mary's College from a group of people uncertain about them­selves and their goals and purposes to a community dedi­cated to developing woman's self-awareness and fulfilling her potential through educa· tion. '' 




Features 
Tuesday, October 14, 1980-page 11 
Prayer; the Essence and the Danger 
Editor's note; this column was written by Fr. Bill Toohey upon the death of Notre Dame student Andy Sowder last year. It appeared in The Observer on March 5, 1979. 
It was a strange coincidence. At the very time The Observer was being distributed, with my last column on prayer, I was at the hospital with the parents and friends of Andy Sowder. His parents came up and asked me pray with them. We joined arms. And I began to wonder what to say. 
Permit me a bit of background by way of getting around to how I tried to answer their request. First ofall, it seems .v10rth emphasizing the fact that it is perfectly normal and ac­ceptable to mention to God our needs and special wishes for others. Even though He is already aware of them it is still the spontaneous and natural things one does with a Father. 
The asking part is quite appro­priate (the sort of things we see in so many ofthe psalms, for instance); and may prove very helpful as a lead-in to prayer. It is important to remember, however, that what I may callprayer for myself or for you isn't really prayer at all if it's a mere request, simply an asking. That's not the essence of prayer. As we emphasized last time, no matter how it is actually expressed, every prayer must have the form ofa request("Be merciful to me, a sinner"); in it's essence, how­ever, it is more accurately recognized as an answer, an opening, a surrender. 
The point is clarified if we analyze the request ofJesus in the Garden of Gethsemane. He very explicitly asked for ~ favor, that He might be spared suffering: "Father, let this cup pass me by." But that wasn't prayer. The prayer came when Jesus added, "But not my will but yours be done." Here we observe the verbalization of His faithful surrender, at that moment a most appropriate articu­lation of"I believe in You." 
The request to be spared death wasn't answered; but the prayer was. His prayer was, first of all, His own answer to the word of the Father, as Jesus perceived it through faith-
something, we might speculate, like this: "Son, I do not want your painful crucifixion. But I have determined that men should be free; so I ask that you accept the unavoidable conse­quences ofyour mission to reveal the kingdom." 
By His willingness to let go in prayerful surrender, Jesus opened Himself totally to His Father; thus His answer was answered with love. We detect this same concept of prayer in a remark Malcolm Muggeridge made in his book about Mother Teresa of Calcutta: "Pray, and your heart will grow big enough to receive Him." 
In the light ofthis, it's hard to think in terms of "praying for myself," in the sense of a method of getting an answer to requests. It is surely fitting to mention my needs to God; but, ifl truly pray, I am offering myself, not just my requests. Specific needs frequently are not answered, sur­render always is. In that sense, prayer is infallible. 
What I'm suggesting here is the importance of distinguishing be­tween requests and prayer. There's nothing wrong with asking, even requesting miracles; but none of this is prayer unless there is that element 
ot surrender ( .. 1 believe in You"; 
"Not my will but thine be done") 
we've been speaking about. 

So, although I wouldn't have hesitated to ask for a healing miracle for Andy Sowder, the prayer with his parents had a different kind of spirit: "Father, we believe you are a God of the living; we cannot understand what has happened; it is a mystery we cannot fathom. But we reaffirm our trust that you love .A.ndy and desire everlasting joy for him. We believe this. Our expressing it has helped to open us to your presence, so that you might be able to support us at this time of our great need." 
What we've been saying about prayer discloses also its danger. If God gives His spirit each time we really pray, it will change our lives. We c'an understand how C.S. Lewis could write: "We shrink from too naked a contact, because we are afraid of his divine demands upon us which it might make too audible." What we find is this: With an old notion ofprayer, a lot ofpeople were inclined to leave their problems with God, unload their wants and needs upon Him...and thengo on living as if nothing had happened. 
That notion of prayer can weaken or detract from our service in the world. It can reduce our will to solve our own problems, by tempting us to leave in God's hands what has ac­tually been placed in our own. For example, we may be so out of touch with reality as to say to God, "Please feed the hungry people," without realizing that, ifwe would only listen, God is saying to us, "Don't expect me .to take on your own task;you feed the hungry people!" 
Actually the evidence of the un-
Fr. Bill Toohey
. 

answered requests ot those with whom I live points to the fact that I haven't really prayed. You see, God intends that, to a great degree, we should answer each other's requests. Say, for example, you ask for bread. If I have prayed, I will be led by the spirit given me to touch your life­
to feed your hunger. God has an­swered your need by leading me to a new awareness and loving action. My lack of response to you, on the other hand, is a sure sign that I haven't let Him into my life through prayer. 
Have you ever thought of this? If the enemies of)esus had been men of prayer, Jesus' request to be spared crucifixion would have been an­swered! The Father wanted His Son to be loved; but leaving men free, He took the risk they wouldn't permit His spirit into their lives, which would have guided them to spare His son. Consequently, prayer turns us out in service, answering the needs of others. 
What a marvel! So many have asked for liberation, freedom from oppression and poverty; asked for 
·bread, jobs, decent housing, justice; asked for someone who will care. If they've prayed, while they express these needs, they've been open to the gift of His spirit-and that's won­derfuL But if we, too, have prayed, that same spirit will move us toward these needy brothers and sisters; and a praying people will reach out to one another. Isn't that the meaning of that other prayer we pray: "Come, 
Holy Spirit, fills the hearts of your faithful; enkindle within them the fire of your divine love. Send forth your spirit and they shall renew the face of the earth." 
I sat on a purple couch in the jam­
packed La Fortune ballroom, an­
xious, waiting, curious. We were all 
curious, wondering what to expect of 
nine outspoken and individual 
women who called themselves The 
Outcasts. 
This air of electric antici­pation resulted in ·heightening the troupe's hilarious spoofs-some of them impromptu -of women in every lifestyle, in fits of anger, fear, apathy, excitement, and most of all, in the common bond ofwomanhood. 
These girls are good. The Outcasts, (Mimi Commons, Kathleen Maccio, Annie Patterson, Mary Pigott, Regina Pratt, Anne Slqwey, Adri Trigiani, Katie Willson, and Angela Wing) opened their improvisational comedy show by firing off rapid one-liners expressing personal feelings about womanhood. "Life always tries to hit me below the 
belt," Willson revealed. "Fortu­nately I'm short and I wear a protective vest." Claimed Wing; "My 
social life can be summed up in two words; GAG ME!" 
Other vignettes illuminating facets 

wonder if I can get her up in the Another stereotytfe was broken as vacuum?"), and a shopping spree at ,The Outcasts staged a Ms. ERA contest. the Salvation Army. where "the mind is the most beautiful 
Patty Sheehan 
performed skits based on suggestions from the audience. Outcast Trigiani directed these with finesse. 
The show was highlighted by appearances by the Emmanuel Singers, an all-black group from South Bend. Their smooth-flowing, intricately harmonizing gospel songs somehow perfectly complimented the zaniness of the nine Outcasts. The group appeared several times during the program, inviting the audience to clap and sing along. And we did. "The Body Electric," from Fame, along with a choreographed dance by the 
Outcasts, ended with the Outcasts standing in a circle, with raised, blazing, lighters, in the middle of the darkened ballroom. It was a startling finale 
Two standing ovations later, I struggled behind the stage and con­fronted Adri Trigiani, the director of the troupe. "Well, Adri, will there be a second date for The Outcasts?" I asked. "YOU BET!" she replied unhesitatingly. 
You've heard it yourself. You're invited to a second date with The 
..... 

• 
,· 
. ' 


ONSATURDAYNIGHT 
'Outcasts 'Dazzle LaFortune Crowd With Debut 
ofwomanhood concerned an unusual In this scene, Willson, hankering part of the body." Pigott, an ar­
Outcasts. Don't stand up these nine glimpse at an all-women exercise after a fifty-cent prom dress, cheologist who had been on twenty­Notre Dame and Saint Mary's class (patronized by a catatonic old screamed to "Mom" (Pigott) her four digs, won. women. It would be your loss. women, a disco queen, a mother-to­opinion of monogrammed sweaters be, among others), a tea party in high and preppie clothes in general "You Patty Sheehan is a French and English 
Finer moments of improvisational
English society undone by the un­think I don't know my name and need Writing major from Saint Mary's. 
talent occured when the troupe 

ex ected death of 'Lara Lee' ("I my initials on my sweater!" 
• ----~--------~---­
l l 
{. 
The ~==c====-=:=-=====;::===:---.--r--­
I 
~ 
l 
I 
I 
j . I 
.. 
' 


·caotpus 

•9:30 a.m.--lecture, ''-variability & plasticity of intellectual aging," dr. paul 
_ b... baltes, penn. state t.miversity in room 119 haggar hall. · 
• 12-1 :00 p.m. -lunch­time concert, mike daly, in Taf-ortune. 
• 4:00 p.m. -lecture, ..gTobal justice in the 1980s: .-.:ucrent failures, future possibilities," rev. peter henriot, s. j., hayes-healy allditorium. 
• 4: 30 p.m. -biology · dept. seminar, "neuro­, t:Jtdocrine control of insect 1 metamorphosis," dr. walter 1 e. bollenbaher, galvin 
auditorium. 

•s:oo p.m. -film, "elie 
; wfesel's jerusalem,'' snite .ruditorium. 
• 8:00 p.m. -lecture, "rnultiple perspectives & t:ruth in policy sciences," 
· prof. paul diesing, 122 hayes­. lrealy. 
Votingschedule 
Hours of lunch and din­ner-on-campus student voting for Student Senate 
, in residence halls. 

ll:00-2:00-Voting for Student Senate, . off-campus students. 
3-:30-7:00-Voting for , Student Senate at Campus · View. Campus View resi­
dents only. 

3:30-7:00-Voting for Student Senate at N.D. Apartments, off-campus stuaents with 46617 zip code. 

BloodDrive schedule 

Srudents from the following halls will give blood in the Student Health Center from 1 p~m~ to 3:15 p.m. on the days Indicated: 
Fisher and Lyons--October t4·, n, 16. HOly Cross and Morrissey-­Nevember 4, 5, 6. Bt-een-Phillips and Grace-­November 11,12,13. I:..e-Nis and Cavanaugh--No­vember 18, 19, 20. Zahm and Pangborn--De­cember 2, 3, 4. 
last year contributions by NQtre Dame men and women w.ere part of a record 12,600 unit5 of blood drawn by the Central Blood Bank for use by the sick in Saint Joseph County hoepitals. 
Amnesty International 

On Wednesday and Thurs­d~, October 15 and 16, Amnesty International, group 43, will present the movie ''The First C1rcle. '' This film deals with the Soviet Union's abusive ~ of psychiatric hospitals for th.e· purpose of controlling po­litical dissidents. The film will begin at 7:00 and 9:00 on both evenings in room 12 3 of Nie:wland Hall. 
Seniorpictures



-t:Jue 

All senior pictures must be mailed back to Delma Studios by October 20 if they are going ro appear in the 198! Dome. 



Molarity 
Tuesday, October 14, 1980-page 12 

u 


Michael Molinelli 


~AT WA5 PRETN 600D... MA'/BE I~ AILMOURNtN6 WARSU:R"! 

57 Cicada 18 Columnist sound Landers 58 Turning 20 Irritate aside 24 Man'sone 61 Punctuation 26 Lean marks 27 Division 62 Singer word Jerry 29 Contested 
. 
n 
b 

Peanuts® 

PERHAPS Lf'OU'RE A
~OU KNOW WHAT KINO 
OF BU~D '(OU MA'I BE ? 
''MOURNING WARBLER~~. 



The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 
Van Halen 
.
1n concert 
Notre Dame ACC 
Thurs.w  Nov. 6, $9.50/$8.50 Student Lottery Wed. Oct. 15 7 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom  
- bring student I D  - 


t' CHlRR&(, CI-URRLf', CHORR'1' CHORR'(.•CHIRR~ CHIKR'f. 
ACROSS 25 Immigrants 1 Shakespear· 28 Roundtop ean prince 31 Northem 4 Soviet news bay agency 34 Flight: sl. 8 Digging 37 Ghostly implement noise 13 Self-esteem 38 Police 
14 Italian collars 63 Nabokov 30 Ages family 40 Publishing title 31 Be mulish 15 Window run 64 Adjust 32 Region parts 42 Southern 65 Oklahoma 33 Parisian 16 Sound leader town 35 Mid·East 
sleeper 43 Weight 66 Mo. gulf 17 Roman cash 44 Makes into 67 Pastor's 36 Short 18 Forever law home skirt 19 Announce 45 German 68 Highlands 39 Snick's 21 Dressed thinker girl partner 
to the-47 Of a people 69 Exist 41 Unspoken 22 Cloth belt 50 Mythic 46 Checks for 23 Brush monster DOWN ripeness 
wielder 53 Opinion 1 Assists 48 Journey 2 Greek 49 Fidel'sMonday's results market capital 

3 TheWord 51 Steamed 4 Inform 52 Marital 5 China's abbr. 
there 54 Moon 6 Flag goddess 
feature 55 Witch town 7 Tar 56 CeQJury 8 Divide plant 9 Hocked 57 Musical 
10 Living tag line without 59 Greek oxygen Olympic 
11 Ottoman site officials 60 Colors 12 Curved 61 Machine leHer part 


YOU EARN WHAT YOU'RE WORTH (and morel) 
Financial reward andjob experience available as MANAGER of WSND's growing SALES department. 
Call 7425/7342 forinterview. 

The Observer 
Tuesday, October 14, 1980 -page 13 


1st place tie 
... Series 
Upsets shuffle Bottom Ten 
-
[continued from page 16) rage, Lozinski is still a lins-ball threat, evidenced by h1s 19 
CATCHER: Bob Boone, Phil-homers in 1980. lies vs. Darrell Porter, Royals. STARTING PITCHING: Un-Boone is one of the premier less ant ~ames are rained out, defensive catchers in baseball the Phillles will not be able to but his hitting can leave a lot to' throw their ace, Steve Carlton, be desired. This season, Boone in games 1,4, and7 as they hit a paltry .229, and many would like. Carlton, a shoo-in Philly fans began shouting his and 286 strikeouts. His sup-name, minus the "ne". You porting cast includes Dick see, the Phils have a rookie Ruthven (17 -10, 3.59), Larry catcher, Keith Moreland, who Christenson (5-1, 4.10), and hit .323 this year in 155 at bats. surprising rookies Bob Walk 
But withkc' s speed on the (11-7, 4. 56) and Marty Bystrom bases, Dallas Green will no (5-0, 1.50, since his recall on doubt use Boone solely for his September 1). Like everyone defensive prowess. else, the Royals should have 
Mter winning a bout with their problems with Carlton, alcoholism, Porter hit .251, who has lasted until the se­provided good defensife play venth inning in all 40 of his behind the plate, and has not starts this year. But the other youched a drop of booze in six Phillie starters ar hittalbe. months. While the Royals The KC staff is paced by whooped it up in the locker 20-game winner Dennis Leo-room with champagne on Fri-nard and 18-game winner Larry 
. day night, Porter, circa 1980, is Gura. Leonard is a hard-an essential part of the Royal tlu;owing right hander, but will lineup. have to rnix his {>itches against 
OU1FIELD: Lonnie Smith-the fast ball hitting Phillies. Garry Maddox-Bake McBride, Gura, on the other hand, Philhes vs. Willie Wilson-relies on off-speed pitches to Amos Otis-Clint Hurdle, Ro-be effective. The other Royal yals. With the designated hit-starters, Rich Gale (13-9, 3.99), ter rule in effect for this year's Paul Splittorff (13-11, 4.25), Series, the Phils will be able to and Renee Martin (10-10, 4.40) utilize the rookie Smith, who were just effective enough sparkled this year filling in for against the weak-hitting Wes­injured Greg Luzinski. Smith tern Division, but may be in for hit .341 with 32 stolen bases trouble against the Phillies. and 69 runs scored in only 98 RELIEF PITCHING: Both games this season, but is a teams rely ·on one man when definite liability in left field, the game Is on the line. For the where he does not exactly have Phillies, Tug McGraw, the the grace ofBaryshnikov. Mad-master of the screwball, enjoy­dox is nicknamed "The Secre-ed his best season with a 1.47 tary of jDefense," can run ERA and 20 saves. The rest of down just about everything hit the Phillie bullpen, led by between left-center and nght-Notre Dame grad Ron Reed, is center. He is a sporadic hitter suspect. The ineligibility fo who batted just .260 in the Sparky Lyle, who was a key frjular season, but delivered figure down the stretch, will the game-winngin hit in the hun the Phils. finest season ever in 1980, When a jam arises in Kansa hitting .306 with 87 RBI's and City, the Royals spell relief providing steady defense. Q-U-1-S-E-N-B-E-R-R-Y. After 
If the Royals have a spark-getting some tips from Pirate plug, it is the switch-hitting ace reliever Kent Tekulve, Dan left fielder Wilson. He led the Quisenberry came on to record AL in hits (225), runs scored 33 saves and 12 victories in 74 (129), triples (15), and was appearnces using Tekulve's second in stolen bases (77). As submarine delivery. the Royals lead-off hitter, Wil-The Phillies have the home son must be kept off the bases. field advantage for the Series, The veteran Otis was plagued and should there be games 6 by injuries most of the year, and 7, they will be in Vets and hit just .253 in 104 games. Stadium. That 'Illa1· turn out to He is a fine defensive center-be a disadvantage for the fielder, but has lost some of his Philles, however. In their four quickness to age. If the Royals playoff appearances in'76, '77, have one weakness, it is in '78, and '80, the Phillies home right field, where Hurdle, a record is a cumulative 1-7. former first baseman, andJohn A prediction, you ask? Wathan, a converted catcher, Well, being as unbiased as platoom. They are both strong possible, I would pick the hitters, but both put on a Key Phillies tf Carlton was able to stone Cops routine in the start three games in the Series. outfield. He is baseball's premier pitch-
DESIGNATED HITTER: Greg er and I daon't see how the Luzinski, Phillies vs. Hal Me-Royals will be able to hit him. I rae, Royals. Luzinski, who has figure the Phils will win the been fighting a two-year slump two games he does start. at the plate, showed some But the Phillies have always signs of recovery with two had problems with pitchers game-winning hits against the they've niver seen before, and Astros in the/layoffs, winnin~ against pitchers the caliber of ~ames 1 and . But "The Bull' Leonard and Gura, they may 1s still unable to hit an outside not fare well. It is for that pitch. If the Royals pitch him r~ason alone, that I ~"!d.gin~ly threat. Despite his .229 ave-p1ck the Royals to wm It m SlX. 




r ------------,,
·I FLANNER FOODSALES I 
I Free 16 oz. Drink 1
I1
with purchase of aI Small Pizza at $150 I 
I 
Call Ahead· 8047 Coupon Good Now-10/17 I

\ . J 
~--------------~ 
In Rob Simari anaSkip Desjardin 
As last week brought the 
Bottom Ten's lavish mid-season 
banquet, this week brought the 
annual mid-season slump to a 
lot of the nation's power­
houses. Four out of last week's 
ten ranked teams were unfor­
tunate victors this week. 
No. 4 California, working with the handicap of the na­tion's total offense leader, Rich Campbell, at quarterback, trudged to a 31-6 win over the Ducks of Oregon. The Golden Bears, who seemed to be a team of championship caliber for a few weeks, should find a quarterback more suitable to its otherwise impotent offense. Next week will show whether or not Cal is willing to make a 
serious comittment to winning a Bottom Ten title, as they face winless Oregon State at Berkeley. 
Air Force, last week's No. 5 team, sufferred its second disappointing game ofthe year. A tie with Illinois was bad e-


SPECIAL 

CT.16, 17 
From ND CIRCLE 
To 
CHICAGO O'HARE 


EXPRESS! 
Depts 6:45 a.m. ircle 12:15 p.m. 
Arr. 10:00 a.m. O'Hare 3:30 p.m. To Your Individual Airline Gate 
Return 
Dept 10:55 a.m. O'Hare 4:45 p.m. 8:00p.m. 
(Board Lower Level Carson's Circle Restaurant) 
$15 One Way $28 round tri 
Buy Your Ticket From Your Driver 

nough, but a win over Navy is a 
downright disgrace. 
William and Mary combined their talent to fill the eighth spot last week. But, alas, the Indians (you remember the savage William and Mary Indian tribe) couldn't handle the pressure of being ranked, and toppled Dartmouth, 17-14. 
The other victorious team this week was Princeton. However, all Bottom Ten fol­lowers know that, traditionally, wins over Columbia do not affect the rankings. The Tigers 31-19 win makes them 1-3 of­ficially, 0-3 in our hearts. 
Despite all of the poor play this week, some things never change. Two of the worst col­lege football teams in years became part of Bottom Ten history when, for the first time ever, they shared the top spot. 
Here are the rankings: 
1) Colorado {0-5}-The Buffs have given up 255 points, in­cluding 41 to Sir Francis Drake. 
1) Northwestern (0-6) ­Leading the nation in losses, and getting used to trailing 42-0 at the hal£ 
3) Vanderbilt (0-5}-The fighting Designer Jeans shrank before the Tulane Green Wave, 42-21. 
4) Cincinnati (0-5}-The TCU of the East. 5) TCU {0-5}-The Cincinnati of the West. 
6) Duke {0-5) -If South Carolina's George Rogers wins the Heisman, he'll split it with the Blue Devils' defensive line. 
7) Oregon State {0-4)-The Beaver's dam breaks in a 41-6 loss to Washington. 
8) Oklahoma State {0-4) ­These Cowboys are fUJf America's team. 
9) Princeton {1-3)-Boy, do they have a great debate team! 
10) Alabama (4 1/2-1/2)­Leave it to Bear Bryant to play the University of New Jersey, and only win by four. 
Also receiving votes: 
The Penn "We beat Columbia, too" Quakers (1-3); The Wisconsin "Who needs 
touchdowns" Badgers (1-4); 
The Iowa "When do we play Indiana again" Hawkeyes ( 1-4r, And Billy "Yankees in three" 
Martin (0-3). 

Quote ofthe Week: 
Iowa football Coach Hayden Fry: "I thought I had a lifetime contract. Then I found out tha-t if we have a losing season, they're going to declare me legally dead." 
ICHAEL STANLEY BAN 
Live at St. Mary's-Thurs. Oct. 30th 8:00 p.m. O'Laughlin Aud 

BUY YOUR TICKETS BEFORE BREAK 
ON SALE NOW 
SMC Ticket Office Reserved Seating & $6 BEFORE BREAK ND-SMC Dining Halls $7 ARER BREAK 

What does it take to be a Marine officer? It takes strength. agility. coordination. endurance. intelligence. moral and physical courage It takes desire. determination and grit Above all. it takes the ability to lead other Marines under conditions of extreme stress. In short. it takes a special breed of man. If you have what it takes, we'II bring ~~~~ 


~~~.'(317)2n69~77si/77sN2w' IJJ~~'fl 
The Few.The Proud.The Marines. 9am to5pm Tuesday Thru Friday LaFortune Center 
-

The Observer 

Tuesday, October 14, 1980-page 14 



Football 

NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
EAST 
W l T Buffalo 5 1 0 New England 5 1 0 Baltimore 4 2 0 Miami 3 3 0 NY Jets 1 5 0 
CENTRAL Pittsburgh 4 2 0 Cleveland 3 3 0 Houston 3 3 0 Cincinnati 2 4 0 
WEST San Diego 4 2 0 Oakland 3 ;J 0 Seattle 3 3 0 Denver 3 3 0 Kansan City 2 4 0 PCT. .833 .833 .667 .500 .167 
.667 .500 .500 .333 
.667 .500 .500 .500 .333 

NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
J, 
Dallas Philadelphia StLouis 
Washington NY Giants 
Detroit 
Minnesota 
Green Bay 
Tampa Bay 
Chicago 
los Angeles Atlanta 
EAST  
5  1  0  .833  
5  1  0  .833  
2  4  0  .333  
1  5  0  .167  
1  5  0  .167  
CENTRAL  
5  1  0  .833  
3  3  0  .500  
2  3  1  .417  
2  3  1  .417  
2  4  0  .333  
WEST  
4  2  0  .667  
3  3  0  .500  

San Fransisco  3  3  0  .500  
New Orleans  0  6  0  .000  
Sunday'!' Games  

Baltimore 17, Buffalo 12 Cincinnati 11. Pittsburgh 16 Green Bay 14, Tampa Bay 14 Philadelphia 31, NY Giants 16 New England 34, Miami 0 Dallas 59. San Fransisco 14 Minnesota 13, Chicago 1 los Angeles 21, St louis 14 Cleveland 27, Seattle 3 Kansas City 21. Houston 20 Detroit 24, New Orleans 13 NY Jets 14, Atlanta 7 Oakland 38, San Diego 24 
last Noght's Game Denver 20, Washington 17 

Next Sunday's Games  last Night's Game  
Seattle at NY Jets  New Jersey 108, Detroit 92  
NY Giants at San Diego  
Atlanta at New Orleans  Tonight's Games  
Buffalo at Miami  Philadelphia at New York  
Dallas at Philadelphia  Boston at Atlanta  
Detroit at Chicago  Detroit at Cleveland  
Green Bay at Cleveland  Seattle at Dallas  
Kansas City at Denver  Kansas City at San Antonio  
los Angeles at San Fransisco  
Minnesota at Cincinnati  
New England at Baltimore  
St Louis at Washington Tampa Bay at Houston  Hockey  
Next Monday's Game  
Oakland at Pittsburgh  
NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE  
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE  
Basketball  PATRICK DIVISION W l T GA GF  
N.V Islanders  2 · 0  0  7  3  
Philadelphia  2  1  0  14  9  
NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION  Washington  1  1  0  5  3  
EASTERN CONFERENCE  N.Y. Rangers  1  2  0  13  16  
ATLANTIC DIVISION  Calgary  0  1  2  10  14  
W  l  Pet.  GB  SMYTHE DIVISION  
Boston  1  0  1.000  Chicago  2  
New York  1  0  1.000  V•mcouver  2  
New Jersey  2  1  .667  Colorado  2  
Philadelphia  1  .500  Vz  St. Louis  1  
Washington  1  .500  Yz  Edmonton  0  
Winnipeg  0  
CENTRAL DIVISION  WALES CONFERENCE  
Indiana  2  0  1.000  NORRIS DIVISION  
Atlanta  1  0  1.000  Pittsburgh  2  1  0  15  14  
Milwaukee  1  1  .500  1  los Angeles  1  0  0  8  1  
Chicago·  0  1  .000  1\lz  Hartlord  0  2  12  20  
Cleveland  0  2  .000  2  Montreal  0  2  0  6  8  

PF 134 170 132 
82 97 
156 
121 94 94 
166 137 104 113 102 
176 173 140 78 
PA 91 110 105 130 137 
101 112 111 105 
121 144 121 133 125 
85 70 127 120 
Advertised Item Polley of thru ~d•rrto~rd •trms ·~ rrquortd fo br rrldoiJ lor s~lr on uch Krorrr storr Plctpl •s spwlr on !hoi •d II •r do run out of •• 10 
otrm •r ••II olfro IOU your choocr of 4 com 1blr •lrm •~tn ••••l•h't orllrc!rn~ !ht 1•m• l~flng• •••n(htr~ •h•ch ••'' r•l•!lt 10u to purch11t !hr ~· 
rl•m o! !hr •d•f•1r\td ~··<r ••lhon 30 day~ 
l ­
! ' 
91 ·176 
169 97 
102 136 75 137 85 120 
75 100 . 
Detroit 0 3 .000 2'12 Detroit 0 2 0 4 13 
ADAMS DIVISION 177 118 WESTERN CONFERENCE Boston 2 1 0 12 9 147 124 
MIDWEST DIVISION Quebec 1 1 1 14 17 144 198 Dallas 1 0 1.000 Minnesota 
1 0 0 9 3 88 168 Utah 2 1 .677 
Toronto 1 1 0 7 12 Kansas City .500 Vz Buffalo 0 1 6 ., San Antonio 1 .500 Yz 2 1Vz
Denver 0 .000 
Sunday's Games

Houston 0 2 .000 1\lz NV Islanders 2. Washington 1 
Toronto 4, Philadelphia 2 
PACIFIC DIVISION Boston 3 Montreal 2los Angeles 2 0 1.000 
Hartlord 3, Buffalo 3
Phoenix 2 0 1.000 Pittsburgh 6, NY Rangers3
Golden State 1 .500 Calgary 3. Chicago 3 .
Portland 1 .500 Colorado 3. Edmonton 2
San Diego· 1 1 .500 1 Vancouver 8, Quebec 2
Seattle 0 2 .000 2 
Sunday's Games 
Utah 125. Denver 121 Yesterday's Games 
los Angeles 114, Houston 103 · No games scheduled 
Portland 107. Seattle 96 
Phoeni• 109. Kansas City 100 
SpringdaleHomogenized 
Milk $159 Gal. 
Everyday Low Price. 
Regular or Mint 15¢ off label Crest Toothpaste 
5 oz. Tube 89¢ 

Springdale 2% Lowfat Milk 
$149 Gal. Everyday Low Price 
Assorted Varieties Jeno' s Pizza 1PA-12~ oz. 

$109 
Fleece Paper Towels Jumbo Roll 
43¢ 

Chocolate, Malt or Vanilla Country Club Ice Cream Gal. Carton 

$229 


Sungold  Sungold  
Sandwich  Wiener or  
Bread  Sandwich Buns  
24 oz. Loaf  8 count Pkg.  39¢  

-~--­
PTS 
4 4 2 2 2 
4 2 1 0 
0 
4 3 2 2 

... Kuhn 
(continued from page 16] 
to shorten the season and take a proportional cut in pay (That was later shot down, by the way). 
Perhaps Bowie's hands are tied on this one though. After all, televiaion's almighty dollar speaks louder than the freezing cold fans in the stands or the painfully numb players on the field. 
Next, Bowie's handling of the rash of labor-management conflicts. In the last four years, there have been two very serious problems between the Players Association and the owners, and another between the umptres and the two major leagues. And where was Bowie throughout. ''Preserving the best interests of baseball" and "Working for the integrity of the game." 
In 1976, the fans and players missed nearly the entire first month of the season because Bowie wouldn't step in and aid in settling the dispute. In 1979, teh fans and players were subjected to minor league umpires for almost two months because Bowie wouldn't step in. Then this spring, the players and owners fended off a threatened strike with an eleventh-hour settlement ~hat could have been reched weeks earlier if Bowie had stepped 10. 
Next, our nation's capital has not seen a major league baseball game since September 30, 1971 when a riotbrike loose in RFK Stadium as Bob Short and his Washington Senators bowed out and left for Arlington,Texas. On numerous occasions in the last nine years, Kuhn has ''vowed that no city would receive a franchise until another was planted in Wahington. 
Empty lies. Since then, cuies like Toronto and Seattle have received teams and there is talk at present of franchises for Denver and/or New Orleans. Oh Bowie, how can you turn your back on your roots? 
Kunn wew up in Takoma Park, Md., a Washington suburb. Every b1o ever done on·the Commish recalls the days when young Bowie worked as a scoreboard boy at old Griffith Stadium in Washington for $1 a game. "Being paid for that, " said little Bowie, "was like being in heaven." 
After serving as attorney for the National League for 19 years, Kuhn was elected Commissioner on February 4, 1969. At the time, one National League owner said, "Bowie was one of the few guys we all ever really listened too and respected.'' 
Bowie Kuhn shouldn't be making over $200,000 a year to throw out baseballs and make other public appearances. In the last two weeks the ''Great American Pasttime'' has taken a backseat to a pair ofMonday Night Football telecasts, ABC's cov~rage of the Texas-Oklahoma college game, and an entire Sunday afternoon of National Football League contests. 
Please Bowie, while you're seeing your breath on a frigid Philadelphia evening, think about the future of the game. Consider some alternatives that really are in the best interests of 
baseball. 
Embassy Coffee 
$399 2 lb. Can 
Everyday Low Price 
Assorted Varieties Morton Pot Pies 3 8 oz. Packages 
$1 

Fleece Bathroom Tissue 4 count Package 
69¢ 

Sliced Yellow Cling Avondale Peaches 
29 oz. Can 
55¢ 

Kroger Cinnamon Rolls 
9"h oz. 
Tube 
u.s. No. 1 Jonathan Apples 5 lb. Bag 99¢ With Coupon 
Available in Store 

···--------------------·--­




The Observer 
Tuesday, October 14, 1980 -page15 






Irish spikers toface Chicago Statetonight 


Irish jump from7thto 5th 
The Top Twenty teams in the Associated Press college football poll, with first place votes in parentheses, season's records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17-16 etc. 
1327 11 Pittsburgh 4-1-0 615

1 Alabama (52) 5-0-0 1224 12 Penn St 4-1-0 5492 Southern Cal (8) 5-0-0 1201 13 Baylor 5-0-0 472
3 Texas (4) 5-0-0 1186 
14 Arkansas 463
4-1-0 1052 
4 UCLA (4) 5-0-0 15 South Carolina 5-1-0 461
5 Notre Dame 4-0-0 1028 
16 Missouri 
4-1-0 319 921 
6 Georgia 5-0-0 17 Oklahoma 2-2-0 229
7 Florida St 5-1-0 18 Miami 4-1-0
8 North Carolina 5-0-0 856 
179 Jl!ith guard Mike Mltckell [left] and center Ti:n Andree [n;ghtJ sidelined with injunes,
19 Iowa St 5-0-09 Ohio St 4-1-0 819 
129 Dtgger Phelps andthe Insh 6asketbal! squad will sonn head znto pre-season practice with 10 Nebraska 4-1-0 811 
20 Stanford 4-2-0 84 a depleted roster. Walk-on tryouts will be held tomorrow evening at 7:30 in the ACC pit. 

_lassifie 
s 
.... 

FOR RENT: Ugly Duckling Rent-A-Car. Desperately need RIDE TO DENVER Family coming!! Need 3 G.A. ArmyNOTICES FOR SALE Priced from $7.95 a day and seven FOR FALL BREAK. Will share even the fix. Call Joe 1840. PERSONALS cents a mile. Phone 255-2323 fOf unusual. Please call meat 1142and 
Need six G.A. fix. fOf Army together. reservations. ask far Bill.
COMICS, new and old. DC, Call Mike a760. MarveL Wallen, more. Free personal SENIORS... WHITE SAND... BLUE 
OVERSEAS JOBS: Summer/year APT. FOR RENT: QUIET, WITH NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ALABAMA GAME. 
delivery on campus. Discounts. WATERS... SUNNY SKIES... GAMBLING... 
round Europe, S. Amer., Australia, BEDROOM-LIVINGROOM aKITCHEN, Call Mary 7220.
I need a ride to Iowa for two over NASSAU.. BAHAMAS-OCT 19·25. Asia. All fields $500-$1200 monthly. BATHROOM W/SHOWER. Call Kevin, ----­
287-6920 evenings and weekends. 
October break. Call Jim at 1073 Desperately need 4 GA'S for the
Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free 1139, or Mr. Joers, 234·33a7. Someone you care about· a friend,ARMY game. Call Mike at 1755. 
a family member • have a drinking problem? Join us. AI Like, ext. 8809. 
Info. Write: UC, Box 52-IN 4, Corona Need ride ta DC for break. Pete:
LOST/FOUND 1184 MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student 
Del Mar, CA. 92625. 
WANTED Help! Need ride fOf 2 coming Wanted ONE Army GA Of student tic. 
loans $20-$200. One percent 
SEE THE MICHAEL STANLEY BAND IN Interest. Due In 30 days. One day 
back to NO from Central NJ over Mark 2ai-0734 after 11:00 
LOST: Tan Suede Jacket-REWARD CONCERT AT SMC... and be a
Break! Call 3193.

INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS Need a GA. ARMY Tlx ·Please call
wait~ Open M·F 11:30·12:30. Final believer in midwest rock 'n' roll.
For Return.Lost In the CCMB. IF 
application day before break ts RINGS. Men's $35 • Sa5 and up. Free Mary Pat at 8091
FOUND PLEASE CALL 3337.(Great 
Remember to vote "yes" on the
Oct. 16. house calls. 255-2402.
sentimental Value) DllUGS CAN BE PURCHASED WITH THE 
-. student Senate Referendum TODAY,
MEGABUCKS I WILL PAY FOR ARMYNeed ride to Florida call Bob 3107
THE NEW BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN ALBUM LOST: St. Michael'smedal. Inscribed OCTOBER 14, IN YOUR HALLSDURING
GA TIX CALL PAT 8606
"THE RIVER" IS SCHEDULED TO BE Michael Sulivan. Cala933 REWARD!! will pay$$$ LUNCH AND DINNER. We need 
----· -------· --~----­
RELEASED AND AVAILABLE THIS DESPERATELY NEED nx TO ARMY. EVERYONE'S participation!
LOST: Black Lab-Doberman I 11eed tu•o Army Jflldmt tkkets. Please Get your ASH out In Oregon. 2 riders MONDAY, OCT. 13, AT RIVER CITY CALL JEFF 232·0902. PLEASE VOTE!
puppy. Black coat with white spat call Mark at 7471. wanted. 180/186 WEST a 15 NORTH
RECORDS. THE BOSS RELEASES THE 
on chest, female. Call John. 234· Call Charlie 1247 or Greg 1153. CHARLOTTE MAKES THE BEST MILK·
RIVER, SO GET IT AT RIVER CITY Need ride back from Buffalo-G.I.3394. Round trip only. NEED 3 GA. TICKETS FOR ARMY· SHAKES IN THE WORLD 1!1
RECORDS THIS MONDAY! $1.00 OFF -----------·--------------Sunday, Oct. 26. Will share... etc. 
GAME CALL RAY 272-9978All SPRINGSTEEN ALBUMS INCLUD· FOUND: Calculator in Library on 
Call Ste·11e Miller, 7791. NEED RIDE to WESTCHESTER COUNTY ----------­lNG IMPORTS, WITH N.D. OR SMC I.D., NEED ARMY TIXI!!II WILL PAY TOP
Oct. a. Must Identify to claim. Call 
NY or area.leave Wed Of Thurs. call NOW THROUGH OCTOBER 151 Bort at 272·997a. DOLLAR!! CALL JOE AT 234-57a2 THE CLEVELAND CLUB 
--. N.Byrne 232-3656 Share$$
Need riders to Boca Raton-Fort IS HAVING A MEETING WEDNESDAY
FOUND: Calculator In Hayes NEED 1 ARMY GA TICKET CALL RANDY 
HELP -need ride to Detroit area. Lauderdale area for Fall break. Call AT 6:30 ON THE SECOND FLOOR
Healy on Wed.. Oct. a. Call and AT1-"1
Call Sharla -3891 steve 232-1978. I need a ride to the NO-Navy game --------. -Of LAFORTUNE. 
---------------Identify. Ruben 3254. 
at Gianfs Stadium on 1 Nov. Call NEEDED TIX FOR ARIZONA GAME AU INTERESTED • PlEASE COME!
1 AM IN DIRE NEED OF A RIDE TO NEED RIDE FROM CLEVELAND AREA
BLUE BACK-PACK MISSING FROM CALl JIM-8700
nm Pat

ARIZONA FOR THE SEMESTER BREAK TO NOTRE DAME AFTER OCTOBER -------------Tom and Bob -Thanks somuch fOf
~

SOUTH DINING HALL. NEED NOTE·
PLEASE HELP JOHN 277-5042 HELP the tun time Soturdayt I loved
BOOKS (AND BOOKS) REWARD IF BREAK. SHARE EXPENSES. CALL PAT NEED RIDERS TO K.C., MO., FOR BREAK DESPERATELY IN NEED Of ARMY nx Glpper'sl
WHI do typing. Neat. accurate, RETUJmED. NO QUESTIONS ASKED 8606. CALL RICK 1932 Beth
TOM -1631
experienced. Reasonable rates. CALL 8901 
P.S. When's dinner?
NEED RIDE TO SPRINGFIELD IL on

Call 2a7-5162. help! Need a ride to NYC area. Call 
Thursday, Oct 16 after 4 PM Will BASEBALL CARD SHOW, NOV. 1, share gas and expenses Call Bob
Chris at 7838. Need two consecutive GA's fOf 
, QUALITY INN, DOWNTOWN SO. BEND. 1066 Army game John 1612 Churchville Bomber9 A.M. TO 4 P.M. F001'8Al.L, BSKBALL 
" 
CARDS. N.D. PROGRAMS, SPORT FOR RENT Wanted female or male vocalist BRUCE needs tickets, students storming Philadelphia on MAGAZINES,ETC. BUY, SELL. TRADE. fOf local band preforming and and GA's. Do God a favor. can October 19.
TICKETS

INFO. 255-1738. recOfding original progressive rock John at 8553 Love, Must be professional and have V.D. 
TICKETS! TICKETS! TICICETSI I need WILL PAY PRACTICALLY ANYTHING 
2 room apt. $50 mo. Near. 233· good stage presence. If Interested
many tickets! students and GA's for WHO HAS 3 GA ARMY nX? I NEED FOR 2-4 GA'S FOR ARMY GAME -Linda. thanks fOf a mind-boggling 1329. call211·1725 aft. 6:00 pm. THEM. CALL nM 1633 weekend. Did Hreal'( happen?
Army. Call John at 8553. CALL GREG 8433 
by Matt Huffman Sports Writer 
"Ifwe're working well, I think 
we'll win.': 
It was with these simple words that Irish volleyball coach Sandy Vanslager pre­dicted the outcome oftonight's contest. The rna tch is scheduled for 6:00 p.m. in the auxiliary gym at the A.C.C. against talented Chicago State. 
"Next to Indiana State, they are the best team we have played this year," says Vanslager. "We saw them in action this past weekend in a tournament. I think we can control the game if we avoid mistakes. 
"They (Chicago) have a good program. Just about all of their players· :ue on scholarship, so naturally they will be com­petitive." 
Vanslager's squad, though healthy, is in the middle ofwhat she terms a "hectic week". Tonight's match is sandwiched between two away meets, in­cluding a trip to St. Josephs last night. 
"With this type of schedule it's important to try and remain as psyched up as possible for every meet. That has been our biggest problem thus far. We've been to inconsistent to establish any momentum. However, I think we're over that now, and the girls are ready to play," says Vanslager. 
Notre Dame sports a 1-3 mark thus far in dual meet competition. "Our duals are of course very important to us," 
Vanslager  comments.  "But  
right  now  we're  pointing  to­ 
ward  the  St.  Mary's  tourna­ 

ment. Hopefully we can peak right about then, and then go into the state tournament with some momentum built up." 
The St. Mary's tournament is scheduled for November 1st, and the state volleyball cham­pionships occur twelve days later in Evansville. 
SPIKED PUNCH-Coach Vanslager urges the student body to "come out and see us." Admission is free and the easiest time to blow off studying is right after dinner. 

---·------------------------~---&. 


Tuesday, October 14, 1980-page 16 
Herefordconfirms 


Corrigan new Irish AD 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP)-University of Virginia President Frank L. Hereford said last night that Athletic Director Eugene F. Corrigan has accepted an offer to take the same position at the University of Notre Dame. 
Hereford told the university's student newspaper, The Cavalier Daily, that Corrigan was in his office at 8 a.m. yesterday and told him, "I'm sorry, but I'm going." 
Hereford added,"Notre Dame is very fortunate to get him because I don't think there is a better athletic director in the country." 
Corrigan was in Baltimore on family matters and unavailable for comment last night, but the student newspaper quoted an unnamed source as saying he will assume his duties at Notre Dame onJan. 1. 

Corrigan, 52, has been ath­letic director at Virginia since 1971. 
The Notre Dame job offi­cially opened up last Friday when Edward "Moose" Krause announced his resignatiqn after 31 years. Krause steps down officially Jan. 1 but will remain as a consultant at least until the· end of the school year. 
A graduate of Duke University, Corrigan coached soccer,basketball and lacrosse and was sports information director during a nine-year stay at Virginia,then served as as­sistant commtsstoner of the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
Corrigan left the ACC to become athletic director at Washington & Lee University before he returned to Virginia nine years ago. 
The Cavalier Daily said James 
0. West, now the associate athletic director at Virginia, was one ofthe leading candidates to succeed him, although Hereford declined to comment on the subject. 
Hereford did say, how~ver that organization of a search committee to find a successor to Corrigan will begin today. 
Other candidates mentioned for the job are football coach Dick Bestwick and basketball coach Terry Holland. 


76th Series begins tonight 

EDITOR'S NOTE: The following contains everything you wanted to know about the World Series, but were afratd to ask-a somewhat objective overview from the Phzllies No. 1 campus fan. 
Baseball's pride and joy, the World Series, begins tonight in Philadelphia's Veterans Stadium and features two conbatants who have raken starkly different paths in capturing their respective league championships. 
For the Kansas City Royals, the 1980 season was made in heaven. After being dethroned as American League West Division cahmpions last season by the California Angels, the Royals, under first-year managerJim Frey, coasted to a 9'7-65 record and a 14-game cushion over the second place Oakland A's. They were the class ofan otherwise pitiful division, but they had the talent to master the Eastern Division champion New York Yankees three straight times in the Championship SEries. 
Their fans, all two million or so, love their Royals, and even the press corps can find no j feason to dislike them. It was just a perfect season thus far, a page out of the Osmand 
' 
family album. 

Kansas City's opponents in the Series are, of course, the National League chmpio Philadel­phia Phillies, the Mr. Sluggo's of baseball. For the Phillies, it ws a season of turmoil, hatred for their overly-critical manager Dallas Green, disunity, uninspired play, and a general "me first, the team second" attitude. On August 10, the Phillies stood in third place in the NL East, after dropping a four-game series to the Pittsburgh Pirates,a full six games behind the defendin~ World Champions. 
) ) As a witness of the four-game garnage in ~ ' three Rivers Staduim, I had given up hope that my beloved Phillies would challenge for the
j 
pennant this season. Theirplay in that seriesj culd best be described as lethargic; in actuality, they played with all the enthusiasm of a ' f prisoner on Death Row. It finally took a couple
) ) 
of ear-ringing locker room speeches by Green •
I ·~ 
·, i 
and General Manager Paul Owens to bring the
' 
Phillies back to life as.ain. Eventually, the Phlllies capitalized on the collapse of the injury and slump-prone Pirates 
! . and the relative inexperience of the Montreal Expos to win 23 out of 33 after Labor Day and steal the division title. And after they battled from behind to capture the National League pennant in an exciting five-same playoff with the Houston Astros, the Phlllies miraculously find themselves in the World Series for the first time since 1950. Suddenly, everyone in Philly is happy again. 
The following is a comparison of the Phillies and the Royals, position-by-position: 

FIRST BASE: Pete Rose, Phillies vs. Willie Mays Aikens, Royals. A Rose, the Phils inspirational leader, had an off year this season, by his standards. Rose hit ""only" .276, but paced the National League with 42 doubles and was sixth in runs scored 
! \ ,, 
;' with 95. More surprisingly, he made only five errors at first base all season, a position he has played for only two seasons. 
Aikens is a free-swinging, power-hitter out of the Willie Stargell mold. This season, aikens hit .278 with 98 RBI's, but hit only 20 home runs--very un-Stargell-like. As the Royals clean-up hitter, Aikens must supply some more power for the Royals to be successful in the Series. 

SECOND BASE: Manny trilla, Phillies vs. Frank White, Royals. Perhaps the most glaring omission from this year's All-Star Game was Trillo, the former Chicago Cub who, after a stint amins the league leaders, finished the season hitung .293. Trillo, who was named the MVP of the NL Championship Series, and is a superb fielder, as good as anybody at turning the double play. 
White, a Royal veteran, is a solid fielder and an average hitter, at best. White hit .262 out of 
the  eighth  slot  in  the  batting  order,  but  
supplied eleven game-winning RBI' s.  
SHORTSTOP: Larry Bowa, Phillies  vs.  U.L.  

Washington, Royals. Bowa, who used to be the class of NL shortstops, has lost some of his range but canstill cover a lot of ground. He is a weak, but pesky hitter, who after a late-season surge finished the year at . 268. Bowa, who is now 35 years old, stole 21 bases and can be an all-around pest if the Royals aren't careful. 
Washington, in his first year as the starting shortstop, had his problems in the field, but hit a strong .274 batting ninth. He has tremendous speed and is always a threat to steal, a feat he performed 20 times in the regular season. 
THIRD BASE: Mike Schmidt, Phillies vs. George Brett,_ Royals. This is li~e comparing Beethoven wah Bach, Cheryl Ttegs wnh Bo Derek. They are the best power hitter and best all-around hitter in baseball, respectively; most assuredly, they are the MVP' s of their respective leagues this season. 
Schmidt was tops in the major leagues with a career-high 48 home runs, and he led the NL with 121 RBI. He is the reigning Gold Glove third baseman, and a superb all-around athlete. But Schmidt was vinually non-exsistent in the series eith the Astros, managing just one extra-base hit and one RBI in five games. If this power slump continues, the Phillies could be in serioud trouble. 
What can be said about George Brett that hasn't beensaid already? His phenomenal statistics speak for themselves: in just 117 ball games, Brett hit .390 (the highest average in the major leagues in 39 years), with 24 home runs, 117 RBI's, 33 doubles, and 14 game­winning RBI's. His mammoth three run homer off ftreballer Rich Gossage clinched the Royals first pennant ever and atoned for five years of disappointment. 
Brett is the premier hitter in baseball today, and even if this Series doesn't exactly arouse your imerests, I'd advise you to just sit and watch him hit. You won't find anyone better. 
[continued on page 13) 


A cold Bowie Kuhn 
There are frost warnings for this evening in the City of Brotherly Love. But only Ernie Banks could say, "It's a wonderful day for a ball game. Let's play two." 
This is the 14th day of October. The leaves are changing, the temperature is dropptng, and the World Series begins tonight in Philadelphia. And if the Series runs the full seven games, the whole schpiel won't be over until October 22. 
The scene will be much the same as it has been for the last half dozen years or so. The evening temperatures will be in the low '40's wid~ an evening mist (five of the seven games are scheduled for prime time) adding to the miserable playing conditions. 
And there he will be, sitting in his box seat, sans overcoat-His Excellency the Commissioner, Bowie Kuhn-the recipient of this week's ''Thumbs Down'' honors. 
Bowie's sins have built up over his almost 12 years as baseball's most powerful iundividual. Yet the more senous ones have come to the fore in recent years. 
First of all, baseball in late October, as almost everyone will agree, is ridiculous. Bowie's lucky that the Montreal Expos didn't make it to the Series. I don't think a World Series game has ever been ''snowed out.'' The regular season lasts too darn long. Maybe the Players Association could consider pursuing an attempt the National Hockey League's Players Association made 
[continued on page 14] 
------------------------------==== 







