r----~~---......,-----~----~-------------­
... Basketball-Pages 8 9· 
an mdependent srudent newspaper servins riotre dame and saint mary's FEBRUARY 29, 1980

CollServative platform defies tradition 
by Michael Onu(rak 
S't!nior Copy Editor 

By any standards the !"980 Notre Dame Mock Convention Platform is a conservative doc­ument. Especially conservative when oHe considers that it was drawn up by a committee of college-age students -an age gr•>up which has traditionally been a bastion of liberalism. 
Last night at a candidates' f,>rum held iii the Library Auditorium, nine representa­tives for Republicans seeking the presidency took exception to, quibbled with, but mostly agreed that the sentiments expressed in Notre Dame's version of the 1980 Republican Plat funn were consistent with their own. 

f,mn. ·'We need to develop all frve systems of defense to ensure that we attain superior­ity and not parity or inferiority with our Soviet adversaries," sard Phil Crane's campus rep­resentative, Tom Jackman. 
Gc,>rge Bush's man Jim Nie­haus not only endorsed the plat form's five-point program fur national defense, bu_t also added a call for a "threeocean navy... Simon's man Greg Sullivan echoed Bush and Crane· s opinion citing the po­terltial bargaining power these systems would give to the next Presidt:nt. 
Like Ben Fernandez' man Grl·g Hauth, Sullivan said Srmon would use these defense systems as "bargaining chips" 

Dr. Albert Bandura, a professor ofpsychology at Stanford Universitv, answered students' [continued on page 5] questions after a lecture on psychological perspectives on violence atHaggar Hall yesterday. 

Speaking before a crowd of slightly more than 100, Larry . Hau, Jnhn Anderson's repre­serltativc, said that his man diJt!S twl support the platform's call for ''continued research and development'· with respect to the MX missile system, neutron bomb, Cruise missile system, Trident submarine, and B-1 bomber. Of the nine landidates (actually eight cand­Hiates and one non-candidate, William E. Simon), Anderson was tl1e only one who felt that the U.S. did not need all five defense programs to insure our nat ron· s defense. 
.. John Anderson does not supi)()rt these defense systems We already· have the capability in our submarine fleet alone to destroy the entire Soviet Union twelve times," Hau said. 
··what is the difference be­tween blowing up the world several times or 30 times?" he asked. 
Each of the other candidates, however, supported the plat­
[photo by Dave Brumbach] 

In Columbian embassy 
Leftist guerrillas release wounded 
BOGATA• Columbia (AP) ­Leftist guerrillas occupying the Dominican Republic's embassy freed three wounded persons and up to ten women hostages yesterday, a spokesman for the 

Columbian Red Cross reported. 
The hostaBes were the ftrst 
released smce guerrillas shot 
their way into the embassy 
Wednesday. and took about 60 
persons captive, including at 
least 16 ambassadors. 
Red Cross President Guiler­
mo Rufda said in a telephone 
interview with The Associated 
Press that one of those freed 
was acting Paraguayan Ambas­
sador Oscar Gostiaga, wounded 
during the takeover. 
Rufda said he did not know 

Busick announces tickets available 
Approximately 1,200 tickets are still available for each of this weekend's hockey games matching Notre Dame against Minnesota, according to ACC ticket manager Mike Busick., despite recent student interest to "save hockey." 
Due to the recent controversy over the future of the hockey program, Busick said he expected a larger turnout by the student body. "I expected the games to be sold out, but tickets are still available," he said. 
Herb Brooks, who took a leave of absence from Minnesota this year to coach the Olympic team, recently led the U.S. to a gold medal in the Winter Olympics. Seven former Minnesota stars played on the U.S. team. 
Busick said he was surprised at the number of empty seats two weeks ago, when Notre Dame hosted Minnesota-Duluth. 
Capacity at the ACC ice rink is 4,287. · 
A sweep for the Irish will guarantee them home ice in the first round of the Western Collegiate Hockey Association playoffs. Should Notre Dame gain the home advantage, the ftrst round series will be held Saturday and Sunday, March 8-9 at the ACC beginning in 7:30p.m. each night. l';To tickets will go on sale for this s~ries befo~e Monday mormng: 
Busick said this surplus of seats 1~ not unusual for thts late in the week and added that more uckets are expected to be c;old before 'the first game begins tonight. ' 
exactly how many women were freed, but a Red Cross source who asked to remain anony­mous said ten were released. One of the guerrillas said 75 women had been taken hos­tage. 
The release of the hostages indicated the government had opened talks with the leftists, who had said earlier no one would be freed until negotia­tions began. They demand $50 million ransom, release of 311 political prisoners and safe passage out of the country. 
Rufda said the Red Cross offered food, matresses and cigarettes to the embassy, but did not say whether the supp­lies were pan of a deal for the hostages' freedom. The guer­rilla spokesman had said earlier there was no food inside the embassy. 
U.S. Ambassador Diego C. . Asencio remained inside the building. 
The guerrillas, members of a group called Movement-19, have threatened to kill their captives if their demands are not met, and say -they will continue their occupation for months if necessary. 
The Panamanian govern­ment, in an attempt to end the standoff, offered political asy­lum to the guerrillas. But it could not be determined whe­ther the offer was conveyed to the embassy. 
The guerrillas said they were holding 20 ambassadors, and the U.S. State Department said it believed there were some 80 hostages in all. 
. Volleys of gunfire rang out shortly after noon yesterday and the guerrilla leader told a reporter by telephone that sni­pers of the Columbian security forces were firing on the buil­ding. The guerrillas claimed to be armed with pistols, rifles, grenades and bombs. 

The Red Cross said that two stormed the embassy during a of the wounded hostages re­noontime diplomatic reception. leased were embassy employ­Before the hostage release, ees, which conflicted with earli­the ~uerrilla leader, identifying er casualty reports. himself only as ':commander 
According to those reports, No. 1 of Movement-19, told one guerrilla was killed and two reporters to "Tell the world hostages and three · policemen that the hard-line positions of were.wounded Wednesday the Columbian government and when the armed gang of about the army is putting the lives of 75 men and four women the hostages in danger." 

Troops prepare for t1,.ouble 
KARIII, Afghanistan (AP) ­Soviet and Afghan troops were placed on full alert yesterday in readiness for possible new anti­Communist demonstrations and violence as worshippers emerge from Friday prayer in Kabul's mosques. 
Spokesmen for the Islamic guerrilla movement told repor­ters attacks were planned for today despite a reign· of terror in strongholds by the militia of the ruling Khala (People's) Party. 
Reliable diplomatic sources said dozens of alleged rebels or sympathiz.ers have been execu­ted since fighting last week. Sympathizers claimed the mili­tia had executed ''many hun­dreds." 
Some Western diplomats ex­pressed skepticism about the guerrillas' ability to mount another citywide offensive so soon after suffering at least 300 dead and an estimated 1,000 injured in last week's street battles, which the government blamed on "imperialist agents and_ saboteu~s" in the pay of Paktstan, Chma and the United States. 
The Pakistani news agency PP~ said rebels in Afghanistan shot down two Soviet helicop­ters Sunday in Ghazni and 
.. 
Kanohar provinces and killed 41 troops, including three Rus­sian officers, in a night attack Friday in that province. The news agency said demonstra­tions against the Soviets had occurred in northern, central and southern Afghanistan. 
It also reported that Afghan troops are deserting in large numbers because the Soviets have forced the Afghanistan people to fight against the rebels while the Russians re­main in background. 
Although the shops have reopened after their week-long strike and most road blocks have disappeared from the city center, there was still a notice­able atmosphere of tension, particularly in districts regar­ded as sympathetic 
Military observers said they believed the rebels suffered heavy casualties when rhey were fired on bySoviet tanks and helicopters, but most of the survivors went back into hiding with their weapons and were undoubtedly planning new at­tacks. 
Official sources in Paris said France's two senior Foreign Ministry officials will visit Mos­cow next month, seeking to determine Soviet intentions in Afghanistan. 




~(lfl1~~{~J~S--------~------------------Fr_id~ay~,f-,e-bru_acy~2~9,_19_Bo_-~P~~e-2 
I 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
,r 
,
, 
,r 
Friday, February 29, 1980 
II: I~am LECTURE, "exploration of self-perspectives on violence," dr. albert bandura, stanford u. HAGGAR AUD. spons: psychology depi:. 
12pm NAZZ, lunchtime concert, gene barbanera, spons: nazz, LAFORTUNE. 
!2:15pm BIOLOGYTRAVELOGUE, 35mm nature photogra'­phy: "the transformation of the picturesque to the phorogenic," prof. lloyd a. davidson, ND GALVIN AUD. 
1-)l>m EXHIBITION, "works on paper" spons: university oi dal as, gallery hours l-3pm, ISIS GALLERY. 
I .. lprn BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT, ANGELA 
ATHLETIC FACILITY, smc, spons: athletic dept. 
4:30pm SEMINAR, "homogenous catalyst for carbon monoxide hudrogenation--the role of clusters," dr. john s. 
~ bradley, exxon rese~rcher & engr., 123 NIEUWLAND, :-puns: depr. of chemtstry. 
5. 15pm MASS & SUPPER, spons: campus ministry, BULLA 
SlUm. . 
7prn benedicrion and stations of the cross, ALUMNI HALL CHAPEL 
7.'),')11pm MOVIE, "diamondsareforever," spons: knights ,,( wlumbus, K OF C HALL, admission $1, members free. 
7,<J,& llpm MOVIE, "rake the money and run," ENGR. AUD. admission $1. 
7-II pm WORKSHOP, women and the ·church: crucial wncerns, panel discussion, spons: ad hoc committee on women and the church, HAYES-HEALY AUD. admission frl."e. 
7: )Opm HOCKEY, notre dame vs minnesota, A.C.C. 
Hpm PLAY, "teeth 'n' smiles" by david hare, O'LAUGHLIN AUD. SMC. tickt"ts, $4 & $3. 
Hpm LECTURE, '·effectiveness of the peace corps,'' richard celest<.', dir. peace corps, LIBRARY AUD . .spons: student g<>V ·, & the placement bureau. 
Hpm BLACKS CULTURAL ARTS FESTIVAL, marva collins of sc:hool system of chicago, GALVIN AUD. 
Hpm NAZZ, floc benefu, admission$. 75. till 2am. 

Saturday, March 1 , 1980 

<lam SCIENCE FAIR, northern indiana regional science fair, 
STEPAN CENTER. 

'Jam·)pm WORKSHOP, "women in religion," LAFOR, rUNE BALLROOM, spons: ad hoc committee on women in religion. 
lOam FENCING MEET, case western, michigan, dearborn, 
wash. u., notre dame, ,\.C.C. 

UOpm AMATEUR RADIO LICENSING COURSE, ham radio, spons: local area radio operators, all interested are t·nu•uraged to attend, RED CROSS BUILDING, 3220 J I~FFU{SON AVE. 
7.50prn HOCKEY, nd vs minnesota, A.C.C. 
•J.!Opm NAZZ, jamif' goodrich and friend, NAZZ. 
ll1·12:30pm NAZZ, tony aquilino, bill floriano, julia perry, 
\JAZZ. 


Sunday, March 2, 1980 

lprn MEETING, nd chess club, LAFORTUN~ RATHSKEL­
1..\H .• 

2pm & 7:30pm BOXING, bengal bo\lts, A.C.C. 
2prn SHOW, children's puppet theater, MEMORIAL l.IBHARY AUD. spons: ladies of notre ~dame, open to the puhltc, fret. of charge. 
2..iprn EXHIBIT, drawings by isabel bishop, spons: "women stgnifier or signitied" GALLERY OF THE TWO FERNS 5077 LILAC ROAD, spons: college of arts and letters. 
.Hlprn JOG-A-THON, spons: notre dame/saint mary's right 
ro life A.C.C. FIELDHOUSE. 

4: I ~pm MEETING, alpha phi omega ROOM 2D LAFOR­TUNE. 
Hpm TALK & DISCUSSION, living in the tnc:sence of God, James finley, spons: sacred heart pawsh, second in series of live, CRYPT OF SACRED HEART CHURr.H. 
To600 students 

Free Univ. offers few-er courses 
~pproximately. 600 students have registered for Free Uni­versity courses this semester, according-to program coordina­
· tor Davtd Perry. However, because of some difficulty in finding teachers, "only 20 cour­ses are being offered this semester, whereas in previous semesters there have usually been about 50," Perry stated. 

Perry claims that one of the reasons for the lack of response on the part of teachers is that the program was not offered last semester, because of what Perry cited as "lack of organi­zation" by student govern­ment. He pointed out that he wasn't selected as director of the program until the 6th week of last semester. Perry hopes tc begin organizing next semes· ter's program this semester in order to avoid similar problems next year. 
Nearly all of the courses are being taught by students thi~ semester. 
''Professor Gilbert was going 
RLO 
sponsors talk 
Prof. Frank E. Booker wiil speak at 7:30 Monday night in thl" Hayes·Healy Auditonum. The topic is on euthanasia in pre· Nazi and Nazi Germany and how the laws of the United States have developed since the kgalization of abortion to legal­izl" the murder, through ne­glect, of certain children with birrh defects. 
The talk, titled "Diminished be Death,'' includes a short film and is sponsored by the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Right to Life Organization. 
The Observer. 
'fl/tgpJ Editor: Margaret K Asst. Night Editor: Mary 1 Kasper Copy Editor: Mary Fran Callahan Layout Staff: Neil O'Brien, Joel Annable News Editor: Mike Lewis Features Layout: Molly Woulfe Sports Layout: Tom Schu­ster Typists: Carol Cornwall Kathy Murray, Michelle Kel leher, Paula Shea, The Shag EMT's: Liz Huber, Cind• Richers · 
Proofreader: Dan Ryan ND Day' Editor: Pat Camp­bell Ad Design: Dave Wood, Joe, Paul, Flo O'Connell Supplement Layout: ) ohn Smith, Beth Huffman 
Photographer: 
Guest Appearances: Deirdre (please spell my name cor.r reedy) Murp_hy 
Till 0...,_ (USPS • 12111 Ia publlsllld Mondly tllrauglt Frtllly II· capt during tum 11111 ...U........ The Observer Is pablllllld br 1111 studlntl of NWI 0.. a.l Slillt Mlfy'l Ctlltt· kiWI$1 _,Ill ,.,...... fir S2l 1111' ,.., 1..c 
IIMIIIIr'l,._ Ttle Obawr, 1'.1. Q,....,. blllll, .......... s-et ella 111111111 .... ....,. Dalnl, ••
.......-. 
The Observer II I ..... If 1111 
~ ...... Alii.......
................ 
to teach a course on energy but 
it had to be cancelled because 
of an insufficient response,'' 
Perry said. He went on to say 
that of the few coutses of an 
academic nature that were of­
fered the response was very 
limited, with no more than ten 
registering for any of them. 
Among the more popular 
courses being offered this se­.mester are those in auto mech­anics, weight lifting, and mix­
ology. 

"Mixology is the most popu­
lar course, it is designed to 
ltitve registered,'' P~rry com-t:''«tnted, adding that he wasn't sUN.: if everyone who registered for l\~ course would be allowed to taP If. 
In ~Nflition to courses like these, a>thers dealing with such topics "s family planning and abortion are being conducted by outsroe area agencies. 
The ft<t>e University program is open .r~ everyone and it is funded hv the student union. "We werfo allotted a budget of $2,000 anfi_ we actually spent less that $100, so the benefits that the •rogram provides in relation to _.s costs are substan­tial," Perry LOncluded. 


fi~LAST 
Help is on the woy!



MARRIED 
JOHN ANNE RIITER ARGIER



d)uPLE 
ttERO AT 

~L!/.,__eAA' 

J LARGE

~ ;fL;~I~SAL PI~ 
United Artloh ~ 

SHOWS 1:45-3:45-5:45-7:45-9:45 





Sunday Masses at Sacred Heart Church 
5:15p.m Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:00a.m. Sunday Rev. Michael McCafferty, C.S.C. 
10:30 a.m Sunday Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev William Toohey, C.S.C. 
7:15 p.m. v~~~ers Rev. Marvin O'Connell (Homllist) 

0~ 5\A&E 1\-1\1 \h'EE.KEt{\>: FR\ ~ 6~1 
21 ID'~ 
. 


········:······················.................... , ••••,~.~-.-......... ) .....~~""~c:~>¥..~..~.........-......a..~~~-_.__...._.........,._-~ ........,....... ~.........:...·······.................... ~ ~ ~-l ....... •Y'.t9\....:.. .....~.., ........, ......,......-........ -,._._.._ .._ ••_ ....... ... 
r 

~---------­
--~·­

The Observer Friday, February 29, 19'80-page 3 
Investigates charges 

YN commission visits prison 

(AP) ·-A U.N. cominis~icin investigating charges agamst the deposed Shah toured a notorious prison yesterday and met with a representative of the rulin.g Revolutionary Council.. 
Efforts to arrange a commis­sion meeting with the American hostages were unsuccessful, at least for . the time being. The militant captors said they had not decided whether to permit 
lt. 

It was feared the approxi­mately 50 Americans, who have been captive in the U.S. Em­bassy in Tehran for 117 days, might not be freed for 10 more weeks. A leading official has said it might take that long for the as-yet-unformed Parliament to make a decision. 
On its fifth full day in Iran the 
U.N. panel visited the ousted Shah's main residence, then tuured Ewin prison where thousands allegedly were tor­tured by SAVAK, the Shah's secret police, before the mon­arch was forced from the throne before last year's Islamic rev­olution. 
Four commission members met with Hassan Hariri, official The mock convention at Stepan Center brought out die-hard spokesman for the Revolution­
ary Council. The fifth member -
Stassen supporters once again. [photo by Dave Brumbach] 
co-chairman Andres Aguilar of 
Leftists seize Salvadoranembassy 
PANAMA CITY, Panama (AP) -Panamanian leftists pro­claiming sympathy with dissi­dents in El Salvador, seized the Salvadoran Embassy yesterday and "detained" six persons, a spokesman for the "Leftist stu­dents said. 
Police said no one was hurt in the takeover. Both the police 
Caucus meets 
l'ltet ,. will be a meeting of the l;.,tJ'-icr'v.Hive Women's Caucus 111 prcpa1att11n of the Mock l'lltl\'<'lltton on Monday, March 
). u 7: \iJ p.:n. at O'Hara-Grace I' >\\'1lh•>ll'iCS t/)2 (next to Bulla 'it1nll All dei<-gates concerned 
1. : til(" Americ;ln family and w1-!ung t<> register their oppo­">llltlll t<> abortion. the Equal 1\tgl11" Amendment, and the d1 ,til oi' women and their sup­i'' >II oi' prayer in public schools -,lt•>Uid attettd. Questions about dlrl·LtltlllS or transportation ">ilt>Uid be addressed to Madon­n,t 7.)X•) or Kathy at 8033. 
and the student spokesman said Salvadoran Charge d'Affaires Manufi Aguirre was among those being held in the protest against alleged government re­pression in El Salvador. 
The student spokesmn said his group was part of the Revolutionary Student Front, a leftist activist organization. · 
The Salvadoran civilian-mili­tary junta has come under increasing pressure from leftist groups, whose members have seized government buildings a.nd staged other protest ac­tions. 
The students holding the embassy, in a downtown buil­ding that also houses a branch of Citibank, read a proclama­tion to reporters demanding release of two prominent Salva­doran leftist leaders. 
The two were arrested in San Salvador for possession of dan­gerous weapons and conspiracy in the occupation of the Pana­manian and Spanish embassies and other government buil­dings in the Salvadoran capital last month and in early Feb­ruary. 
The two, along with a third 
Observer promotes Callahan, Moran, others 
The Observer news editors promoted one senior, five juni­ors, two sophomores and three freshmen last night during their quarterly reporter status mee­ting. 
Freshmen Mary Fran Calla­han, Tom Kowgel and Kelli Flint, along with senior Mary Beth Moran, were promoted to senior staff reporter. News editors consider staff promo­tions on the basis of consistency and quality of reporting as staff reporter, along with the publi­cation ofat least one substantial piece of journalism. 
] uniors Maryellen Bradley, Lynne Daley, Betsy Boland and Bridget Berry, along with soph­omores Cece Baliles and Barb Bridges, were promoted to the position of staff reporter. Qualifications for staff reporter mclude the writing of at least five news articles and the reporter's apparent journalistic promise for the future. 
Callahan, an English and American Studies major from Oak Park, Ill., was cited by the editors for her contribution of 31 news stories submitted sinct> the beginning of the year. 
leader, disappeared earlier this week and were believed kidnap­ped until police announced Wednesday night that they would be taken before a crimi­nal court judge. 
Other conditions read by the Leftists were the release of all political prisoners, respect for human rights and an end to alleged repression of opposition groups by the governing junta. 
Collegium 
presents 


performance 
The Notre Dame Collegium 
Musicum, will present a public 
performance Thursday, at 8: 15 
pm, in the Great Hall, of the 
O'Shaughnessy building. 
Dr. Ethan Haimo, assistant 
prclessor of music at Notre 
Dame, and director of the 
Collegium, organized the group 
in the summer of 1978. The 
Collegium comprises an eigh­
teen voice choir, vocal soloists, 
and an instrumental ensemble 
of recorders, lute, and viola da 
gamba. 

Wednesday's frogram fo­
cuses on music o the Spanish 
Renaissance, both sacred and 
secualr. The concert features 
an entire Mass by the Spanish 
composer, Cristobal Morales, 
sung by the Collegium Choir, 
secular villancios performed by 
~he instrumental ensemble and 
soloists; including Jeffrey 
Noonan, lu.te, Jeanette jones, 
viola da gamba, and Douglas 
Kinsay, recorders, as well as 
secular songs that will be 
performed with instrumental 
accompaniment by soprano A­
nita Hampson. 

The program will also feature works by Victoria, Escobedo, de la Torre, and Urrded. This recital is open to the public without charge. 
Venezuela-was in Caracas on a previously arranged visit and was to rejoin the commission in Tehran soon, U.N. spokesman Samir Samrar said. 
A report from the commis­sion, released at the United Nations, said the members went through a crowd of 1,200 alleged victims and examined individual cases of obvious physiftal mutilation. 
Co-chairman Mohamed Bed­
jaout spoke to the victims, 
assuring them of the commis­
sion's compassion for their 
suffering. He stressed that this 
deeply moving experience 
wuuld remain imprinted in the 
memory ?f the members of the 
COillmlSSlOn. 
It had been hoped the panel's 
investigation would lead to an 
early release of the hostages, 
but Iran's government and the 
militants insist there can be no link between the two events. The commission has been 
pushing Iranian authoritie·s to 
set up a meeting with the Sadegh Ghotrzadeh has said he is trying to arrange one. But all have been unable so far to win the approval of militants who have held the Embassy since Nov. 4 
The official government news agency Pars reported that for­mer Interior Minister Akbar Hashemi Afsanjani said the panel would meet the hostages, accompanied by a representa­tive of President Abouhassan Bani-Sadr. But a spokesman for the militants descnbed the Pars 
report as "baseless," and a militant speaking by telephone wirh The Associated Press in Cyprus, said, ''We are thinking about it but we haven't made up our minds yet.'· 
mE.... DOZA'S 
-f'lllll 
GUITARS,· REPAIRS,

AC.CE.SSQi»IE-S 
· 1\.

1mile north of campus 
hostages, and Foreign Minister ..____.._~··2•7•2··•7•5,.10____.. 




r&nigbt.a nfQTnlum.bu.a 
presents 
JAMES BOND 007"­
I I 
in 





DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER 



Fri. Sat. Sun. Feb. 29, March 1 ,2 7,9,11 pm KofC Hall 
ADMISSION $1 MEMBERS FREE 

Dillonites will suppon DAN FLYNN and all Dillon boxers 
by sitting in the green section. 
Everyone 
welcome, 



especially girls. 
paid for by FLYNNBROTHERS INC· 


--~-­
Friday, February 29, 1980-page 4 
The Observer 
•------II!JULIO'BPIZZA OOUPOX.._______.. 

Eleciibn '80
I I
~ 
IIRTBODUcrtOBY OJTJJB orMou TIIAII 1 
Can.didates reassess campaigns
11/a PBICII orrADILICIOUS 14-IXCH 1
I

! I WHOLBWJDJAT PIZZA· $zAowith I COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) poll in Iowa, turned the tables increased since the $17.6 mil­
I fh1saoupo 
Republican presidential cand­on the former Congressman liun figure was established.
r 
.!
This Is for a delicious Pizza Witn We Also id:ttes, reas>essing their cam: and U.N. ambassador in New Connally also is trying to
r Mozzacella and 1other topping. Specialize In
, p;ugns after the New Hamp­Hampshire.Reagan received 50 en111omize. Cincinnati indust­
I 
r • THII & CRISPY • shire primary, tightened bud­percent of the vote to 23 percent nallst Charles Keating was
I These are incomprable delicious & • STRED PtZZl • 
gets yesterday, shifted travel f~>r Bush and 13 percent for rl'i1eved as Connally's cam­
I wholesome pizzas made with all • TACO PIZZA • · 
plans and realigned their staffs. Baker. p.lign director to take charge of
I 
natural Ingredients. 100 percent • 1111c• & ~ • wholewheat flour, honey in place of • '-Plzu • Four of the candidates, in­The day of his big victory in fund-raising, which a Connally sugar. low fat Mozzarella cheese and WE KLIVU cluding front-runner Ronald New Hampshire, Reagan shook a1dc called '\>ur biggest con­
I one other ingredient. ­
lkagan, the big winner in New up the top level of his staff, cern nght now.'' The shift left Hampshire, gathered here for oustingjohn Sears as campai~n Connally, at least temporarily,
I OIDBIXPIUB ftl DB. 19.. $40~:!!~ I 
an evening debate at the Uni­manager and replacing h1m a, ··Itis own campaign manag­I ·JULIO'S PIZZA, INC. 4' coupon I versity of South Carolina. The With William Casey, a New n,·· tlw aide said. I I dcbarc: was to be televised by Y"rk lawyer and former chair­C.~tJnally targeted the March1 1809 8. Michigan hours 4pm to ll:IOpm 287-1084 1 Public Broadcasting Service. m;.~n of the Securities and H s~,uth Carolina primary as the 


·-------------------------~ 
~ 
,
, 
r 
, r ' r FREE quart of RC Cola with any large Riuopizza! 
' 
, 
r 
277-4926 

WE DELIVER
r 
18439 State Road 23, South Bend
r 
r
,
, 

,r 

Joining Reagan in the debate E--:change Commission. ullllesr in which .ro challenge were George Bush of Texas, The main rason cited by Rl'ag:.tn. Sen. Howard Baker of Tennes­l{cagan and Casey for Sears' see and f(Jrmer Texas Gov. ou--;ter was a disagreement over J.,hn C,,nnally. muncy. Scars argued for a 
The ')0-rninute debate in the well-paid staff of experienced 
Students 

L1J1Jgstreet Theatre on the Uni­professionals, while Casey versity campus was the fourth wants to shift emphasis to -,uch confrontation of the cam­Ullpaid volunteers. 

get bogus 

p;ugn and the third in eight Reagan su far has spent 'days. abour $17 million in his cam­Reagan aides expressed con· p<ugn t(Jr the nomination, and 
· n·m that the other three cand­cou IJ be hampered in its late phonecalls idate--; would concentrate their s1 age--; by the $17.6 million 
Three sepanate complaintsf11-c on the former California <>verall ceiling set by the Feder­have been received by the Jguvernor now that he has al Election Commission for each Security Department from stu-J . regained his position as the candidate's spending on pri­dents who have received dis­jman to beat in the race for the manes. 

turbing telephone calls. The 1 l 1JHO Republican presidential ReJgan said he wasn't overly c-ller uses a title such as!lUminal lOll. u>llLTrned about the financial Seu._ ·cy Director or Police Of­· · l'hc main thing will~ be for l11n1t but noted rhat "we're 

ficer and asks that the student

111111 ttt keep cool and avoid g<Hng to have to econl>mize." 
bring' money to a certain loca­

getting rattled." said one aide. lk s;ud the spend1ng ceiling 
tion in order ro rescue or bailReagan, shaken by an upset wa-. -· 1·ery unrealistic'' because out a SJ?ecifically named friendlo--;s to Bush in the GOP straw till' number of primaries has who is to trouble. 

She was married at 13. She had four kids bythe time she was 20. She's been hungry and poor. She's been loved and cheated on. She became a singer and a star becalise itwas the onlyway she knew to survive. 

Dean of Students, James Roemer, suggests that such phone calls be checked immedi­ately with the Rector, Assistant Rector, the Security Director Glenn Terry, or the Assistant Security Director Rex Rakow so they can verify the truth of the emergency story. 
In the aboye three calls, the calls were hoaxs and poss_ibly were attempts to commit cnmJ­nal acts. A student should not proceed to meet the caller without having the outside ver­ification suggested above. 


Peace Corps on campus today 
H.1Lll;11d 1: Cd(·s1e, dirc:uor "' till Peace Corps wdl be on , .11npu" t<Jday to discuss the p1 1>gl,un.--; of Peace Curps and to lllt'l'l potential· Peace Corps ,·,lullll'l"rs. Celeste will be guv-.1 klluring in government t l,,,,c-. wlule on campus. 
t\t H p.m. tu111ght Cc:lest will i>t· g1v111g a keynote address in tilt' N<HIT Dame Library Audi­l•liiUm. The Public is invited .111d aJrn1,,iun is free. There will bt' a ren·prion immediately l•>li->WIItg Cvk---;tt·'--; talk. 

OH~.·~~'L!N 
A~'~:; C" :'~M 
Si111n l'lo ) I i:J!ge 
r.,o'W! 7S4 4176 

SISSY SPACEK TOMMY LEE JONES 

Teeth 'n' Smiles 

"COAL MINER'S DAUGHTER" also starring BEVERLY Di\NGELO LEVON HELM Screenplay by TOM RICKMAN 
A savage vision ·of the 

Based on the Autobiography by LORE'ITA LYNN with GEORGE VECSEY 
disintegration of the rock

r 
f Executive Producer BOB LARSON Produced by BERNARD SCHWARTZ 
world. r Directed by MICHAEL .APTED ABERNARD SCHWARTZ Production AUNIVERSAL PICTURE U 
Feb.29 

r PG PARENlAI. GUIOAIICE suootSliD <liD \Originol Soundtra<k On MCA Records IU\d Tapes-\ ~""' B<ii9 <Ol9W UNIVERSALCITY STUDIOS. INC.. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
March 1 ,6, 7,8 

,r 
Bpm $4.00($3.00 std/fac







, 'r Opening March 7at a theatre near you 
/staffl .~. 

~~ 
The Observer ! Friday, February 29, 19!Sil-page 5 




Phillis assumes Obud office 
and does the best job with a lot by Betsie Boland of input from the student body, according to Phillis. Phillis said the way to in­crease interest and effective­
Tom Phillis was selected as 
ness of the organization is to
director of Qmbudsmen by the 
organize the mtddle Ic::vels and
Ombusdmen Steering Commit­
tee and will assume office April 
1. Phillis, who succee~s Jeff Hawk, will be acting director for the service arm of student government until the new offici­
als take office. 
The director's duriesindude [continued from page 1]maintaining daily operations as well as public relations. Al­
with the Soviets, and agreedthough no specifics can be that development of these sys­determined yet, Phillis hopes to tcn~s ·is inherent to a "strongcontinue and revamp past ser­defensive posture.''
vices and procedures. 
With regard to draft registra­Ombudsmen provide such tion, however, most candidates services to the students as diff(:red with the Platformanswering campus inquiries, which calls for immediate draft complaint service, Operation registration and the ability toBrainstorm, administration of draft both men and women in 
the ~ardi Gras bank and the "t imc;'s of national or inter­An Tostal ticket boom. 
national emergencies.'' Andy''The steering col1lffiittee OJChfan, Ronald Reagan's rep­sets policy for Ombudsmen, resentative, said that his can­and our success next year will didate is against the draftdepend upon how well we can ·'ncept in times of national coordinate our involvement emergencies." He conceded with the rest of student govern­that he could not accuratelyment,'' Phillis said. OBUD define such an emergency, but provides services to students, added that questions of foreign 
Atnnesty Internat 'I UJages oUJn UJar 
by Annman·e Storz 
Amnesty International is fighting a war of conscience; its primary weapon is moral pressure; its objective the free­dom to follow one's beliefs; its front every country in the world. 
According to John ~urphy, student coordinator of Amnesty International at ND, the group is also involved in circulating petitions which are then sent to influential government officials in certain countries h~lding prisoners of c_on­scLence. 
Amnesty International is con­cerned with more than the release of these prisoners. Three other mandate concerns are speedy and fair trials of prisoners, the abolition of tor­ture, and the abolition of the death penalty. 
Murphy expressed disappoint­ment in the limited number of faculty participants and local South Bend citizens. "We depend on them for contin­uity," he said, asserting that in the past there were many more faculty members involved in the organiz:.tion. 
In the1 more than 100 countries over one-half million people are being punished for their beliefs, color, ethnic origin, language, or religron. These prisoners are ''prisoners of conscience" if they have neither used nor advocated violence. 
Amnesty International works for effe<;:ive international pro­tection of fundamental human rights. Group #43 ts the Notre Dame group composed of approximately 15 full time members and 25 action group members coordinated by Professor Gilbert Loescher. Notre Dame is assigned a number of prisoners of .-ton~ science to work for. The members write letters to in­fluential authorities in the hope of. securing the release of the pnsoner. 
This year, Fr. Nunez, an Argentinian prisoner of con­science, was released. He had been adopted by the Notre Dame Amnesty International group. Since 1961 over one half 
. of the 130C prisoners of conscience adopted by Amnesty International have been re­leased. 
The organization consists of over 200,000 members in 125 c~mntrif"s. The Notre Dame group is currently working on the beha-lf ()&."'a Pakistani prisoner as well as a group of Czechoslovakian dissidents. 
The group wished to sponser the South Africa conference earlier this year, but was ­unable to do this owing• to the Amnesty International Statute which prohibits them from co­sponsoring any event. This rule preserves the non-partisan position of the organization. It is independent of government, politics, cree<ls and ideology. Amnesty International is strictly a humanitarian organ­ization. 
Group #43 is sponsoring a play in Washington Hall in the near future. The play is The Conversation, and it deals with a Czechoslovakian artist who "fdls from grace" with the state and the repurcussions of this action. ~urphy said that it in today' s interdependent world, "there should be amore pervading awareness that all mankind ackowledges one group ot rights and will hold all nations accountable for them.'' 
"We must realize that we cannot escape the common lot of pain, that our only justifi­cation, if one there be, is to speak insofar as we can on behalf of those who cannot.'' Albert Camus made this state­ment which embodies Amnesty International's commitment to "mobilize world opinion" in its worldwide campaign to have conscientious objection recog­nized as a fundamental human right. 
utilize a good executivt: staff. ''With a good recruiting cam­paign for freshmen, and bal­anced numbers within classes, we can maximize the service potential of Ombudsmen,'' he . commented. 
.. .Platform 
policy do not lknd _themselves well to debates of the type held last night because "only the President knows all the facts with respect to our complicated foreign policy.'' 
Howard Baker's man ~ark Lynch said that the Tennessee Senator favors the draft in times of national crisis. He also said he could n::>t define a national emergency, though he did add that, "An invasion of Western Europe, the takeover 1lf the Panama Canal, or a Soviet invasion of ~iddk East uil fields are examples, of crises where the draft would be necessary. 
Sullivan said that Simon is ur1cquivocally against registra­liiJil and the draft. He said that the current controversy over President Carter's call for draft registration is merely the result of a '·ploy by Caner to show :strength." 
According to ND representa­tive Mark Halsema, John Con­nally favors draft registration immediately. He said that the draft itself is only necessary in times of crisis, and said that a crisis would have to include a threat to "the U.S., our vital :-,upplies, or our allies.'' He agreed with every other can­didate thar, at present, this wuntry is nor faced with a national or international crisis. 
or the niile men represented, 1he Crane and Anderson rep­resrntatives were probably the most veh~mentlv anti-draft and draft registration. Crane's man Jackman said that the lllinois ·congressman would consider a draft in peacetime "contrary to American freedom.'' Ander­son's representative Hau con­curred, t1atly rejecting any peacetime draft. 
H.ick Pinkowski, Harold Stassen's man on campus, said Stassen does support draft regtstration and the institution of the draft itself in times of crisis. He defmed a crisis as "a direct arrack on the U.S. or our allies." 
With nine candidates to be represented at the ~ock Con­vention next week it will be almo~t impossible for the pre­scm platform, as submitted by the Mock Convention Platform Committee, to be ratified with­out extensive amendments. It is nut that the candidates espouse radically different political phil­osophies -with the exception of Anderson it is often difficult to distinguish one man from the other -it is simply that each candtdate has his own field of expertise and personal interest. 
Fernandez, a Mexican-Amer· tcan, may want to call for 't ronger economic and trade , ies with Mexico and other Latin-American nations. Anderson may· push for inclu· ston of his 50-50 gasoline umservation plan. Simon may seck more stringent economic measures. 
In any case, an attempt at ratification will be made next Thursday night during the sec­ond session of the ~ock Cunvention. 
., 


---·----~-­
~--.. ----·---______________......... --______ ____ 
..,_... 
.... .. • • 0 :r"'l' • .... 

~ 
, ,
' 
,
,
,
, 
' ~ 
, 




Senior Bar Invites You 
to a 
1'NeUJMonth's Eve Party'' 
1 
1 1 
1 
l 
,
' , 
1 
1 
,1 
~ 
~ 
1980 LENTEN SER~ON SERIES 
He took the form of a slave }larch 2 Fr. John Fitzgerald, CSC 
"Obediently -accepting death on a cross" March 9 Fr. Austin Fleming 
"The name above avery other name" "Jesus Christ Is Lord" 
March 16 March 23 
Fr. Michael McCa11erty •. CSC at 

SUNDAY VE~PERS 
Br. Joseph McTaggart, CSC 
7:15PM 
SACRED HEART CHURCH LADY CHAPEL 


, ~ 
,
,
,
,
, 
,' r , 'r 
,' 
,
, ' 
r 
Trustees' statem.ent: Em.pty rhetoric 
The University's statement regarding the future of minor sports at Notre Dame is vague and ambiguous. The only fact revealed is that the University plans to comply with the regulations set forth in Title IX. However, the University, since it will not lead other colleges in court processes concerning Title IX, has no choice but to comply. And the remainder ofthe statement, especially the Board ofTrustee's weak pledge to retain "as many minor sports as possible" is unfair to those players and coaches whose futures are uncertain. 
Title IX was passed by Congress as pan of the Education Amendments of 1972, and officially went into effect in July of 1975. The University has had more than enough time to adapr to the law. It is ironic that the University's sudden dectsion to comply with Title IX comes immediately after rheir threat to caned scholarships for minor sports, and hockey in particular. 
Spring semester is crucial to many sports as a time for recruiting and planning for the comin~ year. To make such an empty statement as that which was tssued by the Trustees is inexcusable in terms of the foresight and mtellect these men should possess. To issue such a statement is to throw many minor sports into a state of confusion and turmoil. Coaches who have devoted rime and energy to this bastion of human rights deserve to know now whether or not they will be employed next season. Scholarship students should not have tcjeopardizetheir academic and athletic careers because of the tndecisiveness of an Executive Committee. 
The Observer believes it is time the UniversitY. stopped procrastinating in the hope that student interest wtlllessen. The Trustees, in order to retain credibility among other schools, must release their real decision concerning hock~y and minor sports. 
The University's compliance with Title IX regulations and their paternalistic support of women's athletics does not merit applause. It serves only to further cloud the future of hockey an.d other "non-revenue producing sports." The Trustees' statement is the finest example of empty rhetoric available to students. 
There are still 1200 tickets available for each of the games in this weekend's hockey series berween the Irish and Minnesota. The Observer urges the student body to support the hockey team by attending these games. Holding up signs at a basketball game and hanging posters around campus are little more than meaningless gestures if they are not accompanied by a true display of support and concern. 
Coeducation at ND 


Acceptance: The key to success 
· c;,h ·d~tc.zlton at Notre Dame, though only in .:x:,/,'1/CC: fur" reluti~·ely short pen'od, has been .1 "''!.th/,• S/lccess. '· [Executive Committee, J3,.1,j of Tru.l'tees] 
!'lie view from the Administration may differ 111 pcrspeuive, but speaking as a woman, a stuJcnt, and a woman student, I strongly lh-;agree with the Executive Committee. While N•,lre Dame has admitted women as students 1;,r eight years, they have yet to accept them. And the difference between admittance and <ll cL·ptance is the difference between the success and failure of coeducation. 
In the strict sense of the work, coeducation is s11nply the education of men and women t<~gL·tllcr in the same classes. I will not contest tile Ltct that men and women attend classes together here at Notre Dame. However, a L•,llege education, especially at a University, g•ws beyond the classroom; and coeducation m tl11s sense must encompass the social growth <llld maturity of the individual as well as the "' adl'lnic and intellectual growth. 
It i" in this second sense that Notre Dame has Lulnl. Underneath the paternalistic, even sexist -..l.tll-..ltls that women at Notre Dame have raised toll' rn.JUirt·rnerH for Dean's List and 'admission -..1,111darJs is the "traditional " belief that W<~IIH'Il alumni will eventually make their gt e;uest wntributions to society by being good Wl\'l's and supporting their husbands' careers. Wl11il' rhts belief is essentially a "gut feeling" wl11, 11 women students receive from examples u -ed 1 n class and the absence of strong women 111 administrative and faculty positions, it is on a,.,1,,nally evidenced by a slip of the tongue. h•r example, at the recent Junior Parents Weeb·nd dinner, Fr. Hesburgh, in spite of his c•Hl,.,l<lllt reference to your "sons and daugh­l!:rs, · and the "young men and women" of :-.J, ,, re. Dam<:, observed that students are very c.lll'lT oriemed and worried about supporting (. \l;lltually) their wives and children. 
Women at Notre Dame have been "kept in tIt!'I r place.·· The ramifications are that sexist at t 11udes prevent women from accepting chal­lenge>-which would set them apart from other -;w<lcnts. Women students are sometimes tlllllllldared in classes by the attitudes of both fc:llow students and professors. Although the days when women could not wear a skin to class wuh.•ut geuing comments such as "I guess you w~m• an A·· may have passed, women who u•mriburc extensively to discussions still are lahded. lmelligent women with high grades are 
, 

Rosemary Mills 

t'll· •Htraged, by the attitudes of their peers, nor 
111 tlaunt their imelligt·nce. 
It is must unft,~rtunate that it is often the 
women themselves who perpetuate these atti· 
tu·ll·s. But th<:re art· also many reasons for this. 
Women students who speak out against the 
st.IIU'-quo of Notre Dame either leave, are 
tglh>rnl, or bewme disillusioned and surrender. 
Women faculty mt·mbers who try to challenge 
lltl' Universitv to raise their social consciousness 
<Ill' refused cc.:nure. if their contracts are even 
l't'IH'Wl'd l<) that point. 
r.,., uftt·n, however, the reason is simply that 
IIH' W•Hnen whuattendNotrc Dame have already 
.t!J,.,,u·hnl, or have been indoctrinated with, the 
1111 tl1 of the.: school. Women who rejoiced when 
:-.J, •t rt· Dame became coeducational because 
··~hey had always wanted to go to Notre Dame,'' 
,·,111 h.trdly be objective when evaluating the 
"illl'tlgt hs and wtc·akncsses of the University. 
\1any ,,f these women arc following in the 
f,.>tstepsyf their own Notre Dame family. 
On dtt' University level, the failure to accept 
W<~II1L'Il has oJntributcd to the stagnation of the 
"' il•h>l. By trying to cast women in men's roles, 
llhtt·ad of allowing the women to rake these 
r.tle-.. 011 as women, Notre Dame deprives itself 
<~I t11s1ghts and perceptions that stem from the 
fc.·mak experience. They are ignoring, much as 
lite\ d., w11h racial minoirities, the potential 
'.>Ill niHil i.,n ofa unique sector of the population. 
l'tte Lulur<' of Notre Dame to accept women, .111d 1ilc constraints which this places on the W·•IIH'tl at the University, does not affect only the w<~men and the institution. Men at Notre Dame a1e a1,.,,, deprived of a realistic environment and a healthy education. The chauvinistic attitudes ...:ra1n the rl'iationships between the men and W• •men and, more often than not, promote ant.tg•Hllstic feelings rather than tolerance of the ,,ppos11c.· sex.lf men at Notre Dame have difficult tllm·-.. a,n:ptlllg women as individuals capable of <h illevt·mc.·nts equal or superior to theit own in a, .tdemt,·s, cxtracurriculars. or careers, it is ,,,r,·n bl'l·ause they have been heavily influenced b~ the subliminal propaganda of the University. 
C•cducation has been far less than "a notable SLII d'>;s at Norrc Dame. Women have been a,lmutcd w the classrooms but have a long wait bl'i;•rt· the}' are accepted for what they are artd wltat they can contribute. The sexist and tgthH·ant auitude, however unconscious it is, among women and men students, faculty, and c-..pcually administrators must be consciously changed. Only with acceptance will coeducation begin to sun:ced. 


-TheObserver_ 
Box Q Notre Dante, IN 46JJ6. 

T.he ObserJier is an iodepeodent .rwspaper published by tht students rtl the University ofNotre Dame du lac .ld Saint Mary's College. It does DOl arcrssari.ly rdkct the policies of the 11K: nnrs is reponed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills ~nt the opimoo of a majority of Managing Editor ..... .....Diane Wilson the Editorial Board. Commeota.I!~. Editorial Editor.. ............ Ann Gales 
opinions and letters are the views of Se11ior Copy Editor.........M. Onufrak their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike kwis able to all members of the community, News Editor ................ .... Mark Rust an~ .the free expression of varying News Editor ..... ,, ...._......Mike Shields opamons on campus, through letters, is SMC News Editor........Margie Brassil 
eocoura~d. 

administration of rithn institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Sports Editor ..................Mark Perry Features Editor ... ..Kathleen Connelly Photo Editor ..............Doug Christian 
Business Manager ........Steve Odland Produchon Manager .... .] ohn McGrath ~rtising Manager ..Mike Holsin~er Controller..................Kevin Manron Circulation Manager ...... Greg Hedges 
• I 
I 
I 

••• ,',T lol ,,,......,.,-·---~.......w,. -· _..~............ . .... ,o-,i,..-, .. 
'!'!te Q~server -Editorials Friday, February 29, 1980-page.i) 
P. 0. Box Q 
-------------~------------~--~-------------. 
1 1 
,1 
,
, 
1 1 1 1 1 
1 
1 1 1 
1 
1 1 1 
1 1 1 
1 1 1 
j
, 
1 1 
ageous, morally unassailable again, who knows what Stew­morality of the just war; and 2)stance. In Stewart's case draft­
Hypocrisy apparent art's convictions will be to­the citizen's obligation to l?er­
dodging is a two-f~ced 
morrow? "The answer, my fo_rm military service in a timehypocrisy. 
fnend, is blowing in the wind. ot peace.
It strains belief that the same
in Stewart's column The answer is blowing in the Professor Yoder admirably
man who in November pro­
wind.'' addressed the first issue as wellclaimed himself "mad as hell" as the legitimate one of con­
about the hostage crisis in Iran, BobGrabman 
scientious objection. As for the
Dear Editor: and was ready to send in the second matter, it might beMannes to defend national noted that compulsory nationalprestige, now writes that service is a peacetime fact in
·There are truths worth dying 
".:. co":ardice is courage, esp­Freedom worth 
other civilized nations. Fr. Too­
fur, but none worth ktlling for. '' 
eually m the face of escalating hey might have observed that
· Albert Camus, as quoted by 
mil~tary madness and rampant derivative of his nostrums is the 
Christopher Stewart, Feb. 18, fighting for
nationalism.'' In Stewart's c~ncept of a military composed 
1980 
case, cowardice is simply cow­ot largely disadvantaged andardice. In November, Stewart Dt:!ar Editor: 
"It is high time that the U.S. unemployable souls who are
wanted the United States to "brainwashed" to defend their
Guvernment set about reestab­In the late 1930s, Oxford
start I' using its boots'' for social and economic superiors
ltshing its ethical and political students debated in favor of the
"kickin'ass.:· Now with regis­who sit at home at Fr. Toohey's 
prt:!rugatives in an increasingly motion I'It is better to live
tration 1mmment, he sees the urgmg.
hustt!e world. If this alteration under Hitler than go to war."
possibility of having to back up It ill-serves the community
uj the American political psyche Churchill then observed "they
h1s tough talk. Suddenly, with and the chiaroscura of moral
entails justifiable deployment can't row, and won't fight."
h1s own ltfe on the line, Stewart theologY._ to fling a litany of
u) non-.n.~clear military forces, Presumably, the Oxonians were
turns and runs. 

su be zt Chnstopher Stew­weary cl1ches at those seeking a
--inspired by sermons not alien in 
. Some might think me unfair 
art, Nov. 13, 1979 spirit to that recently visited Virgil in their midst. 
tor comparing Stewart's atti­upon us b>:' Fr. Toohey, con­
tudes towards Iran and Afghan­Is Fr. Toohey suggesting that 
a observa­
armor art1cle, "1 Feel A Draft" ent snuattons. Howevh, in the tions are merited. d1v1s10ns d_rifted into Afghal_l­hoping to gain new insights a~d words of no less an authority Had my generation been lstan to ass1st Mr. Carter m h1s 
I read Christopher Stewart's istaiL After all, they are differ­cernmg wh1ch few the Soviet infantry and 
a better understanding of world mesmeri_zed by the sheer folly re-election plan or to pave the
than Stewart himself, "The
evl"nts. As Pete Seeger might unpltut mFr. Toohey's assault
place IS really irrelevant; the way so that "the rich will be 
put It, "When will I ever learn? horror of war is not.'' upon the draft, the good Padre free to buy oil?'· Now a case can When will I ever learn?'' . 1 woul~ like to suggest that m1ght now have delivered high­be fashioned to suggest that the 
h's not the spirit of Stewart's ly censored remarks in German
11 responsible remarks of the Georgia Wunderyokel encour­
arllcle that I object to. Like the or Japanese. aged the latest Soviet barbar­
type Mr. Stewart made inauthor, I do not want to see -Nuvember lead to an atmos­One of the roles of a campus ism by his inherent stupidity,much less be involved in -a phere where people consider chapla1n, presumably steeped but surely Mr. Carter was not war. Rather, it is Stewart's war 111 February. If Sfewart is m the theological disciplines, is so inspired in order to invite Fr. 
colltention that he would run unwi !ling to stick to his convic­to enltghte~ the students by Tuohey's wrath, student con­from the draft that I find tions when they threaten his senous eluctdauon of complex cern or his own re-election. 
objectiOnable. In most cases, mural 1ssues. In this instance
own comfort, I propose that he As for the ."myth" associated 
res1s1ance to a war is a cour-two issues are upon us: I) the. w1tl1 the invasion of Afghan­
keep them to himself. Then Istan, how many Soviet ··myths·' need we suffer before the Reverend Toohey realizes 
that St. Francis of Assisi is not the Patron Saint of the Kremlin. Until that moment of realization seizes him, Fr. Toohey remains 
to intellectual growth Francis J. Brown.e my candidate for the William 


Atmosphere at ND not conducive 
Sl.. an Coffin, Jr. Award. 
'~z say plainly that I do not cure means of intellectual stim-the campus display every few . There is a thing worth de­care to overcpme their reason ulation outszde the classroom. weeks. tending with, if need be, one's without touching their Intellectualization beyond the 4 th.ird suggestion is notso l1tc .--freedom. That precious 
hearts." requirements of a course can be eastly tmplemented, but nece$-tyaluy mcludes Fr. Toohey's stimulated in several ways. I ~ary:hamely, a ~estructuring of freedom to utter patent
john Henry Cardinal Newman 
p~opose ~p that m~Y be imme· · mtroductory phtlosophy nonesense. it is a well-known fa~t' that atately tmplemented, and a courses. The Philosophy de• Dr.}.}. Carberry
Notre Dame alumni are gener· third that wiJI require a change panment exposes its students Professor ally successful in their careers. {God save us!) in the universt-to t~e problems ~f philosoph¥, Chemical Engineering The flood of alumni on football tf's.acad~mic program. but tr does not tram students in 
weekends, sweeping through First, mformal bull-sessions the m~~thods necessary for ;''''i north and sourh ~uads, and into can be held weekly on a section graspmg those problems, ·ID.~'t the football ~tadtum, attests to ?a~is. Professors may be troductory philosophy is a :'sink Reagan consistent the economic stability many tnvtted. These sessions would or swim" proposition foranyjl: Notre Dame graduates achieve. serve to expose students to a one who has never been expQ~,. 
on stand
Of course they visit their alma diversity of facts and argu-sed to that level. of thoug~t mater--it made them what they ments on any subject, serve as ·before (as most high se~ool are today, doomed to success. an I:_)Utlet for personal opinions, studentscoming to Notre D.~e agatn"St a00..,._~00
1 

The spirit of ''~et a degree ennch and strengthen student· are not). AH' u · and get a good job ' or ''get an professor relations, bring sec.-Introducmry c;ourses should .••· A" pushes students co levels of tion members together, and concentrate more on the '11\fa~$ Dear Editor: 
competition which make the create a focus for intellectual ofk~owing, as well as p~Uo· ,~niversity well-respected na-activity outside the classroom. sophtcal problems, trymg to In a February 15 letter to the ttonally as an institution of It is important to realize that ~ncourage a philosophical habit e~itor, the impression'washi~her learning; but what is it one. can t~lk about important mstead of a pedantic grasp qf gtven that Ronald Reagan's domg ~or the students? Truly, · sub;ecrs wtth an expert, even arguments. The beaucy (If position on the abortion -issue more Intense programs and philosophize, without a pencil th~ught, and particularly qf was somehow "unclear." For-better funding produce superior and notebook in hand. · · philosop~y, i.s its applicabilio/· tunately, this al\eged lack of degree programs, but are they Secondly;! propose the crea-to our dally ltves. ...· ·· clarity is easily rebutted by producing superior human be-tion ofan "Artist's Corner"··if I grant you that as students Governor Reagan's consistently mgs? not in each section, at least in app~oach t~eir sen.ior year they-adhered to position as an 
I contend that an atmosphere each dorm. Notre Dame has begm to phtlosophtze more and adamant opponent of abortion. exists at Notre Dame whtch is ?e:come so career-oriented that ltlore, working to a comprehen~ ~his .has been 1Reagan's posi­not conducive to the full inrel-tt IS stifling t?ersonal cre~tivity. sive. view of life as spectres qf twn m the past and it remains lectual development of its stud-. As. a. reposttory for ptctures, realtty stare them grimly in the his position today. dents, a stron claim to make pamtmgs•. poems, sculptures, fac~. -v:ou may point out a In 1976, the National Abor­
. . . g . . any creauve work, or even a restdent mtellectual as an ex-tion Rights Action League ag~mst an 10SntUttO!l who~e scientific paper on mosquito ample of how wrong'I seem but grouped the presidential con­pnm}? re~son ~r e?"~tentt ts research, an artists's corner the fact remains that students t~nders according to their posi-JUSt t .at. Stu ent s tote ec-could serve as a showcase for often grow so involved in ttons on the abortion issue. tual hfe should not end at creative intellectual activity. It courses and the end-oriented Many candidates were difficult c!as~room doorways, or at the is probable that, if treated with demands of "get a degree" to categorize since they avoided dngTg ofa dasfooh be~. The respect and encouragement, an that their free time is spent taking a dear stand on so 
~vd opme.nt 0 t e um@n area of this type (if only a chasing phantoms of pleasure controversial an issue. How­mh~ h hnhke t~e, carec;rs lor glassed-in bulleun board) could in an alcoholic stupor. Even if ever, the League had no trouble ~ IC hey ar~ emg tr~tne at serve to stimulate creative we make allov. ance for those in characterizing Ronald Rea-fi~!r~ob ame, ts not a nme-to· y.'orks in the dorm. Later this who really have no time, and gao's position on abortion. 
J • . • tdea could be extended to the even for those who simply do not They said: 
The donn, as a place m whtc~ c~pus level. . Glass cases care (a sad comment m itself), s.tudents spend most of t~etr .stmtlar to those 10 the Dool~y there exist numerous .students Ronald Reagan has consistently ttme, should not only ~rovtde room could be set up 10 whom these suggesttons can opposed abortion rights and he an a~mo~phere conductvC: to ·LaFortune Student Center. help develop richer intellectual supports efforts to enact an 
6 M • ... •
srudym~ but sht;mld also se-·-Work tnay b-e·fed from tl6rms to-· tivts:~-#~ ·· '"' • • • ,. •• "'~" ·anti-abarlion amendment: • · · · 
'It does not appear that the ~ational Abortion Rights Ac­tton League found Reagan's position to be at all "unclear." 
The League ' description of Reagan's stand on the abortion issue was accurate in 1976 and remains accurate in 1980. Their 
. characteriza~i<?n of !Reagan's ~bortton J.>O.sltton is given addi­tional vahdtty when one consi­ders that as. a PRO-abortion ?rgal?izatio_n, the League makes tt thelt busmess to be correct in stating which candidates are solid opponents of abortion. 
Later in the same letter to the editor, the authors used the phrase: "but if abortion is indeed the most important is­sue of this campaign.'' There is no "if' about it; abortion IS the most importanat issue of this campaign. Ronald Reagan realizes the paramount impor­tance of the abortion issue. he has had the courage in the past and he has the courage today to come _out clea~ly and unequivo­cally m opposition to abortion. In his own words: 1 'I support an anti-abortion amendment as the most certain way to ensure that the nght to life wz/1 belong to all human beings born and un­born." 
There is nothing ''unclear'' about this statement. Throughout his political ca­reer, Ronald Reagan has taken 
, strong, clear and admirable positions. In addition he has refused to "play it safe" by backing-away from controver­sial issues. These are the qualities which make Reagan supporters so dedicated in the past• and which make Reagan supporters so dedicated today. These are also the qualities which have made Ronald Rea­gan the front-runner for the Republican presidential nomin­ation in 1980. Clearly. 
Kirk Brand/ass 

Draft colurnn appeals to logic 
Dear Editor: 
Is the authoress of "Draft of Women Barbaric" for real? Can anyone in· today' s liberated society sincerely put forth such ideas that men and women though equal are not the same, and that some things are done better by one than the other? 
For the first time in a long time at Notre Dame, someone had the courage to wrii:e some­thing totally contrary to the flow of public opinion. Despite the push for women's liberation Madonna Christensen has ' stepped forward and appealed to logic rather than emotion, fact rather than dreams and fantasy. 
Undoubtedly, she will catch a great deal of abuse from her peers and other women at this University. Those who criticize her as being "old-fashioned" or "un-liberated" are going to be heard, but their own words shall betray their dosed­mindedness. To be liberated means to be free to stand up for the truth. Ms. Christensen has done just that. 
Even if I am the only one to do so, please let me congratu· late you on a fine article, Ms. Christensen, and for having the courage, fortitude and percep­tion to enlighten us all. God Bless. 
Ron Klassen 





, 
r 
r 
r 
! r 
f 
r 
,I 
L_ 
Sports Special 

Notre Dame •• the team to beat 
by Mark Hannuksela Sports Wn.ter 
''A state champlonshipwouldhe an indication ofhow much we've progressed as a team, and kind ofa reward for our e((ort this season "-Molly Cashman 
No1 rc Damc· s efforts for a state title in Division III women's baskc-·thall wdl be 

< hallcnged ronighr hy the definitely going to win it." Foresler!"rtt's of Hunting­Tonighr's game marks ton Colkge. Sharon Petro's the return to the starting 1roops, winners of 1he nor­line-up of freshman sensa­liH'r n division. -match up tion Shari Matvey. The 6-1 again-.1 Boh Cartn'"· run­native of Youngstown, Ohio n<'ro.;-up in 1he sou1hem leads the team in scoring drvtston. a1 6 p.m. with a 17.7p.p.g.average. 
The Irish are oul for a She also holds the rebound­
gold -or the nex1 dosest ing edge. pulling down ten 
th1ng. a state t hampinr•shi/1 caroms per contest. 
o,;omelhing 1ha1 hao,; eluc­The reason for the cha­C'd 1hem for <·ac h of the past nge is a result of a well 1wo years. established team policy. 
"'i'his is dw 1hird year we My policy since I've been have been to 1he <;tate here," said Petro, "is that tournament." stat<·d Perro. if a girl misses two days of "and w<· have yet to win a practice she will not start game. Thio.; al~o marks the the following game. Admit­firs1 year that the tourney ted! y, Trish (sophomore has lwcn o.;tricdy for Divi­forward McManus) had a sion IlL schools. We have valid excuse, (she returned thrce seniors em the team, to her hometown of Oak and this is like the last Ridge, Tenn. to be with her hurrah for them. I think it's father, who was suddenly ~oing ro be a very interest­taken ill last weekend) and rng weekend.'· it's unfortunate for her, but 
Those three seniors-co­you can't start making ex­captains Molly Cashman ceptions.'· and Iane Politiski and head Tonight's meeting also cheerleader Kelly Hicks­marks the fourth meeting a~reed with their coach ever between Notre Dame about this being a last and Huntington. The Irish hurrah for them,· and all were winners in each of the a~reed that this weekend first three contests, includ­wdl be imporrant. as well as ing a 70-64 win nearly three inreresting. weeks ago at Hungtington. 
"Initially, I didn't thi11k it "I think it might be a bit (a state champion<>hip) easier for us this time," would mean that much,'' offered Politiski because we slated Politiski. "hut as the know what their strengths season has progressed. it and weaknesses are, and
ln'sh forward Kel~y Hicks.
has become more import­ant.· It's something we'\e 

been working for all year... and because we're seniors, it 
means a lor more to us. 

Cashman. the team leader in assists, is winding up her third year as a member of Petro's basketball team and is convinced that her teammates are ready for th~ weckend. 
''This has been kind of an up-and-down year for us; a loll of games we haven't rlayed as well as we're capable of playing. This is the ume of year when games really s1art to mean something. and we're in a must win situation-if we don't, our season is over. I think that because of that, we'II play our best this weekef~:d. ". 
Hicks is nor a high scoljer, nor is she a dommatmg 
---~--:========~================ 
Goshen College •• out for revenge 
!J} H,.,;, lfut/mJrz ll"l)m,·•1\· Spo,.·t.\· Edttor 
Linda "Pert" Shetler is quickly Jlroving that she is an interim coach that can win big. Shetler took over this 'ear as Goshen Basketball coarh·when Ruth ,Gunden went on sabbatical--and an already good 

•program skyrocketed toward the state champaonship. This year the Maple ~Lafs amassed a 10-4 record and are slated to meet Hanover in thr semi-finals of the IAIAW Stage Tournament at Saint Mary's Col­lege tonight. 
A large portion of Goshen's success can be accredited to Trish Albrecht, a Goshen native, who dected (like so many players are of late) to stay home and play ball. Albrttht, a center averaging 17 points a game, poses what Shetler terms a "great tum-around jump­er." The 5-9 senior also serves as captain for the Maple Leaf S<fuad 

.. rrish is an all-around hustler," sahf Sht•t kr. ''She gives 100 pt'l<t'lll .til dw 1ime on offense and ,ft'lt·nsl'. Slw's very agile and 'lllllps ,.l'llll'l' f~ll' us. She's also our 1, •p rl'h<~Uihll'l' w11 h eight a game." 
~ilt·lln nHnplcnwms Albrecht in fill' s1.11'1111g lllw-up with 5'6" 
s.•ph<~lll•ll'l' Che1 yl M;tst and 5'9" Jllolhll El.un B1gkr' as forwards wndl' IWol scnwrs, Bafh Carbaugh .uhl K.tiTil Egli, l'<lmp<1Se the back­.,11111. Egli. a 5'5" native of K.uh.ts. sa1 ou1 tlw last game of the dl,..lll• 1 hlurnamt·m with a knee 11\!111 y an.! is s1ill qut·stionable for "'1ugh1. s l<lllll'St. Should Egli be 1·,,1, l'•l hl sir •lUI Shetler will put \bs1 111 rhe varant guard slot and lll,..l'll _lu_lie Fmese. a c;·~·· junior, 111"1 dw f rmH lmt·. 
I k.td1ng inro rhe game with ll.uhln·r, the Goshen mentor sees a nee.! f.1r h<:r te;tm ro hit the boards e.ul~ and watdl the game's pace. 
· · W t' 'II ha,·e to slow 1t down a bit. Wc '1c als,, a quirk team and like to run s,, it'll be a g<>Od match-up. 
.. r.lt) often we fail to rebound. Wt··u· just nor at the strength I'd know what we have to do to 
beat them. Pride means a 
lot at this srage of the year, and the crowd can only help 
us. So, if we don't win it, it'll be our own fault." 
Notre Dame will indeed ha\'e a c:rowd advantage, strategically located across the street from Angela Athle'tic Facility, which will house the rournament. 
Cashman added another advantage the Irish having going for them. "We'll be the 1-o.ggest ream on the floor this year,--wc ve never had that luxury before. That is a definite advantage for us.'' 
Hicks optimistically sums up her team's attitude toward the weekend tourne-y, saying "we're gonna win it. that's for su~e. Ifwe don't we can't put the blame on anybody but ourselves." 
influence under the boards, but she is an integral part of Petro's team. It was her basker with :50 remaining in last weekend's district opener thar quenched a Grace College rally, and reasserted Notre Dame's superiority as they went on to a 73-65 victory. In Wednesay's interview, she played the role of prophet. 
''With us being seniors, we're going to be really psyched for the weekend. In past years, we haven't gone into the tournament as confident as we are this 
year. I feel that we are 
l1kl' 1\l be at... said Shetler. L1 .. u.illy we arc outrebounded by 1""' , 1r 1 h ree l'\'l'ry game... :-\lll'dn dtll'sn· t deny that she ,,.. ,,11,1 like ;UllHher crack ar the 
I: 1,11. dw ream thar toppled Goshen, 
-;.(1) 111 rhe tinaIs and onre duringl------------------------1 
lilt' rl'gular seas.1n. 
· ·:\o~1 n· D.une is rhe ream to beat. We·\l·l,lst twice ttl them this season .an.! 11 w.1uld be nire to get anorher , ll.llh c... said Shetler, a physical c.lu, .11 "111 tt'<ll'her. 
:\n.i Shc1kr has her srrategy all rc.a.h· w bt•at the Irish. 
· · \Ve nn·d ro cur off the big girls un,lnneath. Doing a better JOb on ,Jc(,·nse and keeping them from gl'111ng the hall inside is the key," pr<~piwsized Shetler. 
S.1 the Maple Leafs, a team from Jill' ltlwral arts college of about 1400 r.allc.i G.1shen, seeks the state title, sparkt·d by "Pert," a hot-handed h,lllll'h1Wn center named Albrecht, an,l whar rhe inrermin coach calls · .t ~,,,,J auitude--we're really fired up. 

Friday, February 29, 1980 -page 8 



Notre Dame 
Coach Sharon Petro Asst. Coach Bob Scott 
Team Record: 16-7 Nickname: Fighting Irish NO PLAYER POS. HT. YR. 
10 MAGGIE LALLY G 50 Jr. 11 TRICIA MCMANUS F/C 5-11 So. 13 MISSY CONBOY G/F 5-8 So. 14 SHEILA LIEBSCHER G 5-8 Jr. 15 RENEE ANTOLIK G 5-5 So. 20 KELLY HICKS F 5 10 Sr. 21 MOLLY CASHMAN G 5-4 Sr. 22 PATTI O'BRIEN F 5·7 So. 23 SHARI MATVEY c 6-1 Fr. 25 JANE JERGESEN G 5-8 Fr. 32 JANE POLITISKI F 5-11 Sr. 


Goshen College 
Coach Linda Shetler Asst. Coach Sharon Swartley 
Team Record: 10-3 Nickname: Maple Leafs 
NO PLAYER POS. HT. YR. 
10 BARB CARBAUGH G 5-4 Sr. 11 ELAINE BIGLER F 5-9 Jr . 13 JOANNE KAUFFMAN F 5-7 Fr. 15 BETH OSWALD F/C 5-9 Fr . 20 TRJSH ALBRECHT C/F 5-9 Sr. 22 KAREN EGLI G 5-5 Sr. 23 CHERYL MAST G/F 5-7 So. 24 SHARI SWARTZENDRUBER c 6-0 Fr. 30 GAYLE PERRY G 5·4 Jr. 31 DEB SAWATSKY FIG 5·6 Fr. 21 JULIE FROESE F 5·8 Jr. 

Notre Dame 
Friday, Feb. 29 • 6:00 p.m. 

Huntington 
Saturday, 


Hanover 
Friday, Feb. 29 • 8:00 p.m. 

Goshen 
Semifinals 

~-­


.J


Sports Special Friday,February 29, 1980-p~9 




Hanover : a balanced attack. 
playing  with  each  other.  The  
potential was  always there,  but it  
was  a  matter  of  getting  it  all  













.,.....,.,....---~-------·-----­
effective threat during the tourna­ment. Joining Naiser on the frontline will be either 5-6 Kathy Dillon or 5-11 Lynn Nichols, both freshmen.
Hanover College 
"I start either one, depending on 
Coach Connie Fox 

what we want to do and what kind of
Asst. Coach Barb Van Meter 

a team we're playing," explains the Team Record: 10-7 NickName: Lady Panthers 
Panters' coach. Dillon adds quick­ness to the squad's lineup, while
NO. PLAYER POS. HT. YR. 
' Nichols provides the size needed
11 PATTI LOVE G 5-4 Jr. 
against bigger ballclubs.

13 SANDY CAPPS G 5·4 So. 
Freshman Shari Matvey leads the Irish with 17.7
Defensively Hanover must con­22 AMY SCHEEL F 5-8 Fr. 
15 VAL DILLON G 5-6 Jr. 
ppg and 10 rebounds. The 6-1 Matvey hatfs from Youngstown, Ohio,
tend with Goshen's talented 5-9 
23 SARA LUTHER c 6-0 So. 
and holds a 3.6 grade average in pre-profession studies. .
center Trish Albrecht. The senior
24 SUSAN WEIMER G 5·4 So. 
co-captain is scoring 17 points per
25 DEBBIE BERNER F 5-7 Fr. 31 KAREN MASTERS f 5-10 Fr. 32 SUE FRANKEWICH F 5-11 Jr. 33 LYNN NICHOLS F 5-11 So. 34 KATHY DILLON F 5-6 Fr. 35 TERRI NAISER F 5-9 Fr. 



Huntington :playsfor the fun ofit
Huntington College 
Coach Robert Carter 

by Chris Needles With four senior starters, plus an 18.5 ppg scorer and Sports Writer an 11.0 per game rebounder, one would have to
Team Rec0rd: 14-8 Nickname: Foresterettes 
question coach Carter's pessimistic attitude towards 
NO. PLAYER POS. HT. YR. 
"We're just lucky to be here," admits Bob Carter, _ tonight's game. But, he is quick to point out his 11 RISE PYLE G 5-5 Fr. 
the head coach of Huntington College. squad's most obvious faults. 
10 LORI PYLE F 5·9 Jr. 
Nonetheless, his Foresterettes., owners of a 14-8 ''Size has to be our biggest weakness,'' he
12 LYNN CARTER G 5·3 Sr. 
overall record and runners-up to Hanover College in the com men ted. ''Our tallest starter is only 5-II
13 SHERI STRAUSBURG G 5-3 Fr. 14 JODI SMITH G 5-3 Sr. 
Southern Division, will attempt the near impossible in (Newsome), plus our forwards are not very big. Also, 15 SH ElLA PETTIT F 5·5 Sr. 
the semi-finals of the IAIAW State Basketball we don't have much quickness. That's why we play a 
20 DENISE SCHOLL G 5-1 Sr. 
Championship Tournament. They will try to upset the deliberate style of basketball.
21 REISA GRAVES F 5-7 Sr. 
clear-cut pre-tournament favorite, Notre Dame, tonight "It's always fun to play in this tournament
22 TAMMIE NICOLL F 5-5 Sr. 23 COLLEEN DOYLE F 5·6 So. 
at Saint Mary's Angela Athletic Facility. Tip-off is (Huntingron finished second last year). I hope rhe 30 TAMMY NEWSOME c 5-11 So. 
scheduled for 6:00 p.m. experience will help our younger players in their 
31 CONNIE KIGER c 5-9 So. 
The two teams have met once this year, with the Irish development. Overall, though, we'll just be playing for 
32 KENDRA OUCY F 5-8 Fr. 
taking a six-point decision at Huntin~ton just three. the fun of it." weeks ago. And although Carter feels hts sguad will be And if the Foresterettes can spring a couple of fighting an uphill battle, no team wins 14 of 22 contests upsets, just think how much fun thts weekend will be. by just being lucky. · 
"Oh, we do have some strengths," stated Carter. "We play a 'possession' style of basketball. We try to utilize the 30 second clock to our advantage. I would have to say that our biggest strength is patience." 

-TheObserver-. 
If patience is Huntington's biggest virtue, then Reisa To Regionals 
Graves is a very close second. The 5-7 senior forward 
from Columbia City, Indiana, is averaging 18.5 points 
-(/) Supplement Staff 
per game in her fina,l season. Starting opposite Graves 
at the other forward position is fellow senior Shelia 
Editedby: Beth Huffman
1-4:00 p.m. 
Pettit, who stands 5-5 and hails from Pioneer, Ohio. A pair ofseniors also occupy the two suard positions. 5-3 ) odi Smith, from Ossian, Indtana, handles the 
Layoutby:John Smith, Beth Hulllma:'" 
playmaking chores, wh~le 5-3 I.vnn Carter (y~s, sht; is 
the coach's daughter) IS second to Graves IS scooog 
Taylor University 
Upton, Indiana 

Contributors: Kelly SullitJan,
with a 9.0 ppg average. The lone underclassperson in 
the Foresterette lineup is center Tammy Newsome, a 

Chris Needles, Mark Hannuksela 
5-11 soph<?more from. Huntingto~, Indiana.. She paces her team m reboundmg, avera-gmg a formtdable 11.0 rebounds per contest. 

Photographer: Mike Bigley
State Champions 


by Kelly Sullivan Sports Wn'ter 

A young Hanover squad will be making their bid for the Division III State Championship when they face Goshen College (10-3) tonight. Sporting a 10-7 record, Coach Connie Fox calls her team "the surprise of the tournament.'' The Panthers entered the district tour­ney with a record resting on the. 500 mark (7-7) before posnng victories over IUPU-Ft. Wayne (75-71), Tay­lor (79-68), and Huntington (61-49). 
''This team has really jelled in the last two weeks," notes Fox. "We've finally gotten used to 
together." Offensively, Hanover relies on a balanced scoring attack, with three of their starters aver­aging in double figures. "I can't single out any one player on offense," comments Fox. "Anyone is capable of scoring 20 or more points in a given game." 
Forward Terri Naiser,(5-9) is the club's leading scorer, boasting a 
14.0 average. The freshman is also rebounding at a 12.0 clip. T.eaming up in the backcourt are junior Val Dillon (5-6) and sophomore Sandy Capps (5-4), the squad's playmaker. Both list a scoring figure hovering near the 12.0 mark. · 
At center Fox is likely to go with 5-10 freshman · Karen Masters, who's developed into an extremely game while grabbing 8 rebounds. 
"We're not going to do anything out of the ordinary. I think our center (Masters) is a good defensive player -we're just going to play solid defense and hope to contain her," says Fox. 
Should. her team reach the finals Saturday afternoon, Fox expresses a preference for playing agamst the Irish. "We've already played (and beaten) Huntington, and it's not easy to beat a team twice. Besides, I just think it would be fun to play Notre Dame." 
Now in her fourth season at Hanover, Fox led the Panthers to a 12-4 campaign record l-ast year before being edged out of the tournament. ''This season has been one of ups and downs,'' offered Fox. "Being as young as we are, we dido' t know if we would make it here this year or next. But our ream adjusts very well and I'm confident we'll handle the pressure." 

•







r.--:­
The Observer Friday, February 29, 1980-page·lO 
Career information 
Placelnent Bureau organizes file 
by Ear/Rix 
To assist students interested in locating alternatives to a career in business or industry, Tim Beaty of the Placement 
NJOub 
holds meeting 
The New Jersey Club of Notre Dame will hold a general meeting on Sunday March 2 at 
7:00 pm in 1.aFortune Little Theater. 
Sign-ups for the Spring break bus will take place after this meetmg. 

BASEMENT, NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL LEGAL ~ID & DEFENDER ASSOCIATION ROOM 8·12 283·7795 11 am · 2pm CIV. · F) other times by appointment 
WE HANDLf ALL 1=1 NANCIALLY QUALIF"IEO STUDE:NTS & STAff 



SUNDAY 
~JAZZNIIE 
At The 

LIVE ENTERTAINMENT~:f\R"S-He4~ 
from7:30tol1:30  ~  ~  
Featuring...  A'  
THE DUNES JAZZ  ..  
QUARTET  8tr.,;:S"'"~\~  
Don 't Forget Our  85 U.S. 31  
"All You Can Drink"  
Champagne Brunch  
Sunday from 12to 2:30pm·  
FOR ONLY  
$6.95  

, ...... 
Bureau is organizing a central 
resource file concerning alter­native career information. The purpose of Alternative Career Explorations (ACE) is not coun­seling, but rather it provides resources for people seeking other than !conventional careers. 
Beaty plans to complete the ACE file in approximately six weeks. The file1 however, is already operational. A Decem­ber graduate of N.D., Beaty is willing to help students find contacts with organizations and people, as· well as specific job openings in alternative areas. The ACE is structured to be flexible to a student's particular need. 
Some 25 people have used the service in the past two weeks. A business major who 





LEGAL 
I 

wanted to help underpriveli~ed people now h~s a posiuon setttng up a credit union in the Bronx, a law student was able to contact people in community organizing, and a liberal arts major received the names of 15 people and orsanizations in the area of soctal concerns in Boston. 
"We try to help people from all majors that come m here, from science all the way to business," he said. 
the ACE can assist people of all majors and interests and is nor limited to offering intern­ships and positions in areas of soctal concern. For more information, contact Tim Beaty at 8324 ext. 21 or in room 222 of the Administration Building from Monday through Friday during regular business hours. 

SU director Rich Cup pol/a reminds students that commission applications are being accepted. [photo by Dave Brumbach] 
Ford claitns Pinto UJould e~plode despite tank tnodifications 

WINAMAC, Ind. (AP) · Even if modifications had been made in its fuel tank, the recalled 1973 Pinto in which three young women were killed still would have exploded in flames when struck from behind, a Ford Motor Co. witness testified yesterday. 
In his second <Jay on the stand in the automaker's reck­less homocide trial, John Har­rerstan, an expert in accident reconstruction, said the chang­es called for in Ford's recall wouldn't have prevented gaso­line from sloshing out of the Pinto's -tank. 
He said that a sheild included in the modifications would have done nothing to prevent the tank from rupturing because of a build-up of gas pressure. 
The state contends Ford knew that defects in the Pinto's fuel system made the car likely to explode in a rear-end colli­sion, but that the auromaker 



SUaccepts applications 
by Chip Block 
r\ppltcarions f<>r ten Student Uili<Jil commissioners and cumm1ssion comptrollers ac­c"rdlllg to Rich Cuppotla, newly al>p111I1lcd Student Union direc­l<>r, arc now being accepted. 
file ten departments in need uf c1 •rnrnissioners include the aLad<:mic commission, social LlliTIITIIssit>n, cultural arts, ITIIJ\'I<:s, and concert. Dave EIIIslln, cultural arts commis­:-.Illilcr commented, ''The com­ITII.SSI<Jner's job is to organize the workers of his respective dcpanmcnt.'' 
Cuppolla said that most 
changes for next year cannot be made until the commissi,•ners have b!'en selected. However, he ad,kd that he did have some,,! lw-; own ideas. He said he plan:-. to ''look inw more con­CL'I'!S and see where improve­mt·nrs can be made.'' Con­cerning Student Union spon­stJrcd movies, Cuppolla seemed sat isticd with this year's selec­t11>11s and said he planned to LIHI!IIIuc the current movie system. 
Application for the positions may be picked up in the Student Unum oftice located on the seumd floor of LaFortune until March 7, and must be returned by March 12. 
MASS follow-ed by
supper 
every
FRIDAY 

at the 
didn't make the repairs or warn the public. 
Under cross examination by ·Elkhart County Prosecutor Mi­
chael A. Cosentino, Harrerstan 
said he didn't believe that 
locating a fuel ~ank above the 
car's rear axle would make the 
vehicle less likely to leak fuel in 
a rear-end collision. 

However, an a paper entitled "Vehicle Fires" Harrerstan wrote that "fuel tanks located near the perimeter of a vehicle are particularly susceptible to damage durins an impact be­tween two vehicles. 
One of the better methods of limiting tank cave-ins during an accident would be to position it where cansiderable crushing of the vehicle structure would have to occur before the fuel tank would be deformed. One such choice is between the main frame members and a consi­derable distance ahead of the rear bumper.'' 
The state has argued that the Pinto's fuel tank lacked suffici­ent structure around it to protect it from being punctured by sharp bolts in a r~ar-end collision. 
Harrerstan, a mechanical en­gineer from Spokane, Wash., was not allowed to specualte about the injuries that would have been sustained by the occupants of a car struck from behind at 50 mph -the speed at which Ford claims the Pinto was hit. 
Harrerstan, who said he con­ducted nine cra"sh tests for this trial, told Ford attorney Mal­colm Wheeler that he conduct­ed one test involving a 1972 Chef!rolet van and a 1973 ·pinto sedan ar 35 mph. Harrerstan said he ran the test ''Because I wanted to find out it there was any possibility that I was wrong about the closing speed" in the Indiana crash. 
Wheeler offered the film of the 35 mph crash test as evidence then withdrew the offer aft~r Cosentino objected when Harrarstan admitted that the film was in no way similar to the Indiana accident. 
At a break in the trial, Cosentino told reponers that he plans to review Ford's film of the 35 mph crash test before decidins whether to ask that it be admitted as evidence. 

, 
-. 
-Friday, February 29, 1980-page 11



Features 
LETTERSTOALONELYGOD 
Goodbye To Innocence, And All That 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
He was decent, I thought, to call '·What happe-::d?'' I said, nearly He had no way of knowing I was ''I'd give my soul," he said, "if I me back. A while ago, I had angered whimpering with pleasure like a remembering a special friendshil;l of could put things back to where she him, losing his respect and attention, parent on finding that the kids are not my own. 'I don't want ~o be 1ust was the honey I thought she was. But when I protestingly played the role of siiUtting him out. another coed bringing you Cake you were right; she really wasn't a his dial-a-counsellor. What reasons "Well," he said, "we went through Number Sixteen on your birthday,' very nice girl.'' could I give, he had wanted to know, with the matter we talked about, and she had said and we weren't even "I didn't say whether she wao;; nice, for not consummating his initiation f.,r a while everything was the best it's Playing For Money. Each of us is so or not," I said. "I only think she's into sexual experience with a girl he ever been between us. Then, she vulnerable when we trust ourselves being very foolish." I knew tf I met was crazy about, since the young bl'gan to find my remarks were no to another's caring. her, I might feel more sympathetic woman loved him enough to do him l.mger witty, and my humor was no "When it's the first time for a toware her than toward him. I don't this favor? Hotlines are suitable l.mger funny, and she didn't like me know why this would be so; but I've
guy," he said, "nothing physical is 
when Carter talks to Brezhnev, when hanging around so much. Finally, she seen it happen that way.
damagt;d as a sign that virginity has 
resentment is expressed over troops t<1ld me she wanted to date other guys. "Anyway," said the sadder, but
been giVen up; but a guy can feel 
in Afghanistan; but I was not the That was unacceptable to me, so we wiser man, "that's the story. You
hurt, too. Later, when he makes love 
President, threatening to boycott the slopped going out. Last week I saw her to the girl he marries, he ~nows it dido' t have an answer to give me. Olympics; he was not an aggressive 111 a bar, being nice to one of my won't be his first time. I'll always Now I have an answer to give you, to Soviet, endangering the Persian friends, but I didn't want to find out ·USe if someone like me should call
regret that for myself. She knew how 
Gulf. I was simply an older Christian what was happening between them.'' you again."
I felt about it's being my first time. 
relying on a tradition, dating back to We talked it over beforehand, and "Nobody would believe me," I
''I appreciate your telling· ·me
Moses, that makes heavenly sense to she knew I wasn't interested in said. ''People insist on finding their 
this," I said. "I felt so bad about
me; and he was Romeo announcing: playing games.'' own answers. That's the way the 
your hanging up on me."

"I'm saying goodbye to innocence, world has always been. People only
"Yuu were right,"· he said, his
and all that sh--; but I'm giving God A sex counselor in the Sunday believe in their own experience.
words going sing-song, up and down,
His final chance, so you'd better Tribune offered her opinion that That's why there will always be a job 
as though he trying to detach his
make it good.'' A phone.call can help virginity is about as valuable as an for priests."
voice from any expression of emo­
you keep the peace with a tyrant; appendix. ''So much for sentimental­
tion. "She wasn't really a Jood lt was fair of him to call and tell
keeping peace with your conscience ity," I thought when I reaa it. "So 
person, and I thought you woul like me. I didn't have any desire to say:
is more complicated than the politics much for the dear, dead days beyond
to know you were right." "I told you so." I was sorry he felt so
and power plays of detente. recall.'' If virginity is so worthless 
"I doubt that she's a bad person," hurt; but someday he may look back 
"Hello, Griff," he said, "it's me why did this young man sound like he 
I said, ''only very unw1se, and .on his present heartache as one of the
again, your dial-a-phone morality wanted to cry? Everything--the
careless about herself and you.'' minor sufferings of his lifetime. I
caller. I read your column, and I heanbeat,the breath of life itself--di­
"I loved her," he said. "Ifshe had hope he doesn't nurse his guilt--or
thought you would like to know how minishes m value if self-reverence is 
gotten pregnant, I would have marri­his resentment toward the girl, which 
things turned out. You didn't have lacking. If that sex counsellor 
ed her. She dido't turn out to be the is his way of saying he wants her to
an answer to give me, so I thought I'd esteemed her physical innmacy so 
girl I thought she was. feel guilt, too: most of it, or all of it,
give you an answer, in case anybody I feel used, as lightly, given a chui~.:e between 
though I had been explored by so that he can blame her, and forgive
calls you again." having herappendix or her virginity,
somebody curious. Now she's moved himself--any longer than is necessary
I thought: he really is decent to I'd rather be her surgeon than her 
on to another new thrill. She isn't the to turn his experience into growth.
call back. I thought he hated me for husband. 
girl I thought sbe was, after all." • Guilt, after a while., is about asbeing inept; but now he's calling "Oh Lord," I thought, "now he's useless as an appendix. Guilt can
back, and I am really grateful. I don't "Nothing is worth regretting for­
writing her off as cheap. That's not nag you, sicken you, and drive you
know who the fellow is; I never heard ever,'' I said. "Bye and bye, when if he had read the column I wrote to fair to her; it's not helpful to him." you're older, it won't hurt so much.'' crazy. People say the same things 
"I told her,'' he said: '"I don't about virginity, but it isn't true.
him as a follow-up to his phone call. Later on, when he's older, he might
want to be another number on your Given the choice between dealing
Now I am relieved to find out that his not even remember his hurt. 
list, another scalp you've collected; Anyway, the injury, I think, was a with Jour guilt or your virginity, Ifinal impressions of me were not another guy you've tried it with, to woul rather be your priest than your
remarks of mine that he considered hard on his pride as it was on his 
find out what it would be like.''' psychiatrist.
offensive. trust. 
What's All This, Then? 

Gerald Curtin 
CI:'-J'E.I>v1A ·ON CAMPUS CINEMA--OFF CAMPUS 
t:tko• the Money and Run on Friday, Fl'gruary 2'), at 7, 9, and 11. Cu.tj>/<'1' fu.1u at 7:00 & 9:20, Forum I. Englllt'l'fing Auditorium. . Stars Th1~ most recent Neil Simon work Wo,,Jy Allen as a sweetly mcompe­dcplliS Simon's wife's death and his lclll gangster with gentle manners -.;ub~equent man:iage to actress Mar­and an inability to wnte holdup notes 'illa Mason. A comic drama starring 1ha1 anylme can read. A must for all .\1arslla Mason and James Caan. Wo,,Jy Allen fans. 
Kt~uner vs. Kramer at 7:00 & 9:15, F<>rum II. One of the most heart
PLI\FORMANCES --ON CAMPUS warming and inspired film works of 1he year. Dustin Hoffman and ~eryl S1 reep portray two parents m a 
s1 ruggle to obtain custody of their_ son aflt'l' their seven year marnage cllllapscs. 
Midnight Madness at 7:15_ & 9:30; /1,·ru ..zl L..zrge at 7:.30 & 9:30, F.~rum Ill. Twenty-three nvals race Un1vnsit\' Park III. Your favorite [/,,, '<' ·,-CIJmp..zny personality is back 

_..,-E'E'T-8 
!lm1ugh Los Angeles to see who can 
on the big screen in this hilarious uew' ' wm the famed Ali-Nighter. 
fdrn. Jnhn Ritrer, as a strugglingI'll/'/'<'~ Shuw on Sunday, March 2. 
[/-"-' Ltsl Married Couple in Amenca Y"ung -acwr, tries_ to be helpful to 
Ld1rary Auditorium. Performance at at 7:-!5 & 9:45, University Park I. c\·eryone around h1m. 
2:1liJ, spnnsorcd by "Ladies of Notre Ge,,rge Segal and,Nata_lie Woo~ star 
Dame.·· · · as a couple whose mar~mge begms ~o PEIU<JHMANCE OFF-CAMPUS (.',,,1<.<'1'1 featuring Angela D'Antu­tlm.tndc.:r as the marnages of their olhJ, soprano, on Wednesday, March friends break one by one. 

AI' VEGETABLE BUDDIES ) at H: I). Library Audit0rium. The entlclllg voice of Angela D' Antuono T/1e Pug at 8:00 & 10:00, University
l~·<'lh 'n · Smzles on Friday, February 
Park II. Strange forces are set afoot'" a must f(,r all.
2'> & Saturday, March 1 (March 6, 7, Stre.tmerwillflc'r performs their last
when a deadly fog enshrouds Sou­C•JJit"<'t'l featuring John Michael Tal­
& 8) at 8:00. O'Laughlin Auditorium show tllgether on Friday, February 29
thern California. Stars: Adriennebot. On Friday, March 7 at 8:00.
SMC. An individual, ~avage vision of & s.uurday, March l.
Barbeau and Hal Holbrook.
L1brary Auditorium.

1he disintegration of the rock world .. 

The Observer Friday,I.February 29, 1980-page 12 
-
[c'unlifiUt-td from page 16] 
ienced Romano was the -125 pound champion ancl 130 pound IUllliC'rup m' 197b and 1979 r-;spectively. He will be chal­lenged by a str&{lg field which includes last year's 135 pound runncrup Robert Rivera. 
142 Pounds A law student, soccer player, and several rook­ies compose thi' :,ision. John Mike R:.uenhorst, Dave Rob­erts, Mike Flores and John Donovan; 
147 Pounds Can anyone de­fear Tony Ricci? A set •of seven boxers will answer that ques-· tion next week as Ricci will try to be only the fourth Bengal Bourer ever to win four champ­ionships. He Vl;'ill have ~ sttff challenge from a formtdable group which includes 1979 run­nl·rup Tom Bush, second-year man.J im Tyrell, Mike Mulligan, 
Stcphens, a second-year J.D. 
c.111didate, can mix· it up with 
thc best. His past Bengal 
expencnce will help. 
150 Pounds This division illl ludes four tested veterans and five rookies. 1977 champion Brian Kilb was upset in the scmi-tlnals in the past two Bengal tournaments and is eager to end his career in style. 
155 Pounds Pete "Doc Rock" DeCelles, a three-year veteran, will attempt to st1fle the chal­lenges of rookies Keith Conner, Jim Zmolek, Barry Tharp, Jim McCaffrey, Larry "Lars" Bar­tu,;h, John O'Sullivan, and 1\Iil-..e Marrone. 
160 Pounds Law student Tom McCabe and another of Rich Hunter's soccer players will add color to this weight class. Booter Rob Verfurth is ready to upset Bengal veterans McCabe, 
Marty Curran,  Tony  Cortese,  
Joe  Gill,  and  Jim  Nester.  
165 Pounds  Jim  "Jimbo"  

Devine, with a championship 
under his belt, is the favorite to capture the 165 pound trophy. The talented lefty must defeat a talented group of fighters to gain that distinction. 
170 Pounds Body builder Mike Pullano, cheerleader Mike Budd and veteran Glenn Pacek are the early odds-on favorites to reach the finals stage in this division. 
175 Pounds This is anyone's championship. Six rookies comprise this field with hockey defenseman John ''Killer'' Cox 


• 


MASTER DEGREE PROGRAMS lN APPLIED MATHEMATICS AND COMPUTERSCIENCE 
The Mathematical Sciences Department invites app/ti;ations 
for graduate study and gra­duule assistantships from students seeking the M.S.• degree. Both teaching and research assistantships includ­lllg 1u 1 I 1on and fee waiver are ul•,uluhle. In addition research 
assistantships with the Indian­apolis Center for Advanced 1\csl'an h involving problems in solar enngy, wind energy, energy wnservation, basic ap­plied aerodynamics. and other cr 111 tcm/)or;~ry problems are av.ul<~h t· lor qualified appli­cants. Background required liH.:Iudes Bachelors in Natural Sciences. Mathematical Science 
or Engineering. 


Cl}airman  
For further information or tpplication write to:  Department Sciences IUPUJ  of Mathematical.  
1201 E. 38th Street  
Indianapolis, IN 46205  

...Bengal 
and Irish guardsman Bob Stew­art at the top of the list. 
Heavyweight Even though the fF"west number of boxers comprise this weight dass, it may provide the most excite­ment of the tournament. For­mer Notre Dame football player Pat Boggs, walk-on Mike Walsh and 1979 Heavyweight runner­
up  Sean  McCormick  are  all  
int ..dating  in  size  and  ap­ 
pearance.  
All  the  proceeds  from  the  

Bengal Bouts will be sent to the Holv Cross Missions in Bangia. desh. So, attend the fights for a full day of amateur boxing at its best and help feed the poor in Bangladesh. 
. . . Paxson 
l •Jillumed frrJm page 16l 
underl Coach Don Donoher, 
mark an even 13-13 season. The 
Trailblazer's skills aren't the 
only ones Donoher has lost. 
Sophomore standout Dave Abel 
simply abandoned the team 
during the Christmas break 
and returned to his native 
Detroit, Mich. Also dropping 
out of the Dayton squad this 
year was freshman John Tom­
linson, a 6-4 guard who "disap­
peared'' after a disheartening 
loss to DePaul. 

Gone with Paxson's ability is much of the excitement in the once emotional UD Arena. Per­sonalities like J nhnny Davis and his one-man All-America show, Erv Giddings and his picture­perfect slam dunks, and of course Jim Paxson, Mr. Consi­stency have sparked Dayton in recent years. At present the Flyers, celebrating their dia­mond anniversary, rely heavily on three-year letterman Jack Zimmerman, who directs the offense with 17.2 p.p.g. Zim­merman and his teammates will have to hope fo" a piece of :ri~-.1\ iu.:-r.: {JJ;-t)JJ.!t"d pn~Sjbly at 
l ~(J ~ ' I . 
u•c ,;, uuent no"! :; uangout pub, Flannigan's), if the Day­ton dub can hope for a win over the emotionally high Notre 
Dame. 

Plv~lps, who likes to end rhe season on the road in prepara­tion for the NCAA tourney (the lnsh have not closed out a season at horne since 1976), leads his 21-) ream to Dayton on a wave of optimism. 
''Dayton has had somewhat of a disappointing year. They were 19-10 last year and went to the NIT, so people were expecting a lot,'' offers the Irish mentor who has lead eight teams to the NCAA tourna­ment. "But they lost Jim Paxson and that really hurt. Dayton is a sound ball club and they are well coached. Their fans arc always up for the game and I'm sure we'll face more of rhe same this year. A win would almost make their season. It will be rough for us. Even though we've assured ourselves a bid in the NCAA, this season finale .is important for us. We'd like to go into the tournament on a w111n111g note. 
The Irish, riding high after the double overtime upset of DePaul, set a perfect stage for a Dayton upset. One can hardly forget the 1978 loss handed to Notre Dame at Dayton, 66-59. 
Paxson, enjoying his role as Digger's sixth man (one that fits into a uniform, anyway)
: 
insists he won't let the Irish emotional level slacken. "I won't let 'em get down1" 
[continued on page 14] 


PLACEMENT BUREAU 
" 

Main Building 

~~~~~~~~~I~D~: ~:~~e~:S "s~~~~~=-~ ~OA~F ~~Cli l~UilSDAY, 
PLEASE NOT£ INTEII.VIEW LOCATIONS AT TIHE OY SI~-UP. YOU MUST SIGN FUR YOUR INTERVIEWS PERSONALLY, 
MTJ AI.IIAJGSCUIJIM 
Ku. 10 Hoo. X 
X 
X 
X X 

X X 
X 
Har. 10/11 Hon/ruu. 
X X 
X 
Mar. 10/11 
Hoa./'tue.e. 
X 
X X 
X X 
X 
X X 
X 
X 

X 
X 
X 
~l.'lr. llo 
~X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
~criconNllturalRI:'aourccaC~ 
B in HI, CE, EE, Coap Sd, Accc, Fin. 
Atlantic R1chf1eld C0111panv BHD in Ch-. (Analyt1ca.l, Or~o.nk, lnornu"h:, \'hy.. l,·,,l) 
Boy Scouu of Merle<~ All Lib. Aru. 
~:::~::~~!~:~' ;~~; ,:!.TcchnoloaY, Enrl•l~'-·rtnn BHD in £E, HE, HEIO, ChE, Cha111, Phy»iCIII, MDLII. 
lnduatrlal Rilll Jnaurure D in all En,r Jhciplinua. u ln Phydu, ChuDI, tt.ILh. 

HtltYopoll.tnn 1..1{1.' lnaurnncu r.ompony B in all dhc1plinea • 
_Rockwell Intcrn<~tlonal 
1"\llA. 
ACTION Pc<~cc Corpa and VISTA BH in Ill dilctplin... JD. 
Ho.nuf~~>cturcra Not1onc.l l!.nnk or D1.1trol.t 
10} All BBA. 
ll} MBA with Pinanca concentration. 
~£.i_der TTan•?ort 1 lnc. 8 in EG, Bua. Ad. MIA. 
l\lller1can Can Ca.~pany Chanaad to March 18. 
8oxt4H' Trnvanol l..oborQtor1aa Inc. II in Math, !.con, Acct, Fln, Hat· 
Co111111onvcal th Ed bon C0111pany 8M io EE, KE. B in C01ap Sci. 
!.1 I ...... ~lncntal Telcehonc sy•tc. 
~V,....-......uned. 
.f!!£....£!)reoration II in (:h£, KE, MElO. B in Acct. 
INRYC0 1 Inc. II in CE. B of Arch. ill!.A wltn 11uonw; ona1nocr1nll bDckaround. Huat hava int11r11at in Salt!·~>· 
Has,n111vo~ GovyM~cnt <~nd Industrial Eloc:tronic11 Co. 
BH 1n E!. 
J>co!>lcll Clle Light 6 Col10..' C0111p1111X tl ln Cl!., !.E., KE.. 
X IA~ l ...,kerry Univ4c 
If'~ 

Cancelle.J, 
X 

i\lllt'rlcan Gr;uJuatl.' SchooJ of lnLcrnallonnl AU duau~ra and dbdpU.n,.. 
.{IIIIOcioltll~ COlllllc-l"c1.:~~l CorpOTilt1on 11 in Fin, Hat· 
Mun;u\l'llll''ll 

FcU{'rlltcd Invttaton 1 Inc. (Chilnt:~;rJ from Mar. ltl) D ih li:con. All DDA. 
· ,. 11. ~·. Goodrich Coll!liiny. J::ngtn~'l'£1.'<1 l'r<>Uuclti Gruu]' ~y...V-LIM ln JiE, F4bric:aud Pol)'lllcr Producta, W'hoahi and ~~/ bruku11, Alrcru!t Evacuation Sya,OIIIb, Convayor lh.!ll11, llu~oc, Trant~portO't inn Producu. Y.:~~rioul Engineering po.liit.~. ..n~J. Prtmo.r11y Aknm, OH. Pun~. Ruu. Vlohl. 
llullh"~ ,\.rcr.Jl t Compo1ny. Suppun 5yt~tt!mll II in \OE., U Ln Phyli1cto. For: Pl~:ltl Syatcmli Engr, 1'r.:~Jnin1: l;;ngr:., Cngincur.ina Writen, Location: 
t.u.. Angel"~• CA. Cittzcn&hip raquirud. 
!'lurphy1 t..mlcr 11o Qulnn II in Acct.. 
X 

Photo t:lc~tronir.ll Corporation 1>11 ln Eli:. 
Sli.'Wart-Wornar Electronic~:~ D in J::E, HE, HEIO. 
, '.'ni tan r.""'"''' ip" ~.•~c~r:, .a.ns-,!. 


:,::.:::,•::::::::"::· 
D in Math, COIQp Sci. 
,,_.~~ 
Monagc~umt Conllultanu. 8 in Kath, eomp Sci. 
for D<~to Adalini&tt"&tora, Benefit lo.nalyau, ActWJrial. 01nd "Oat• Jlato~e Allaiatanta, l'L&n A.dlllinll\t~e•t.ion Spacialhta. All BBA for DAtl:l Adlllinilltt•tora, Bcnufit Analystll, Plan Ad"inhtution Specialiat. i...Jt"Lit!on: Lin~::~ln&hire, IL. Citizenahip req. 
Amau•d Inllu•Lrt..-a, Inc. B in HE, Hat. B in Acct. 
~o Tribune All PW\ (prufurably Kkt) !or Adverthina Salca llep. 
Chicago irlbunc (nOlo' schedule and roquircmontll) B in all dillcJplino» for Circulation K.on•a-ent tr.uinoo fur Production, Ohtributi"n, Saloa, Tranaportll­tion, Promotion» in tho Chicaao are<~. 
Contln11ntol lllinoh Hation.ol Bank and Truat C9!ranyv All BBA for Coli•&• lldation.o B in Lib· Arta, Bua. Ad.W with 1 or 2 proar-ina cour••• and C011p Sci for Syat.u-;. 11 in Acct or other BaA with 12 houra of Acct for A.udit1n,, Proceaa Analyat, Coat io Operation• Analyat. B in K.onoaC~~cnt or Lib. Aru with buaineaa coura•• for Opcr<:~tion.a Supcnriaoc. Location: Chicaao. P•n~.· Rc». Viao required. 
Do•vid w. T..wlor H~:~v>~l Ship Ro»aarch lt Dovulo!H!!cnt Ctr. bl'l in C'nE, CE, Et. Environmental tnar, Met, MB, H!lO, CJ;; (»tructural}, At,. B in Cht!lll, Comp Sci, Math, Phyaic 
XV :!~~~n~~~ion.;l a::n:n~n ~· t!:u~:adit An&l)'at Trainee ­~ .~-"'~ Trainina in Credit analyaia of c011111arcial loan appli­
rr./ 

cationa, laadin& into 4 c•r••r in lendin&· Locat.l.on: St. Louh. Pana. R.a11. Vila r•quirod. 
CARD, Inc. (Sub11icl1arx of CATX) BKO in all Enar di&cipline• and Phyaica. 
GTJ:: hlv<~n1a St11tcmtt Grour 8HD in in EE, HE, COilp Sc:1. 
X. j • Tektronh.. Inc. ~ ~v Electron.lca He•u•ur(llllcnt Equi'*ont and Graphic• Collllluni­
A"/­

~=~!:~:~nd. H in KElO, EE, C011p Sci. MBA v1tll tech 
Union Cubtdo Corporation -Lind~: D1v1aitn ·cryogQoic Equipment, lnduatrial Call Production and 1 .,.. Diatribution, Wa1 tawater and Solid Waau ·rreatlllent, ; V'"..,..-'lT Pollution ContTol l'roceaaea. 1!. in Acct. V Variou11 Accounting poaitiooa. Variou& company 
1ocJltiOPII. Pail!l. Rae. Viaa rcquirud.
~ 

L. S. AyTell 6 Corapaoy 6 in Lib. Aru and Bu1o. Ad, 
Bcchtl.'l Power CorporntlOn . D in HE, EE, conatruction 11nd Flolll t:nar• lntaraatod in .tl>¥1gnlllcnt aw Y1111ld Conlltruction ~nain••ra oo coal fired and nucla<~r povar planu located in tha Hidweat, 
Eaatcrn and Wo1tcrn United Statoll. 
A. s. Dick CompanyI/.'copyin& aod Ouplicatina l::qu1palent. All fiBA, B in v Ltb. Art& with ~ttron& 11111phaah and inuraat in Sal1111. 
Salc11. Chicqo, Dotroit, lndianapolll, Coluabua.
~ Pl.'rm. Rc~o. Vi»•· 
•lhc&COnll~ructlonCOI\oanv 

tn CIL, Project Hanaaara, :Onatruction, varloWIbl uld Oparatlonll. Indiana, Oh1ct, Kentucky, 
~ 
CitUpn•hip requ.l.l'ed. 
. \ • , ~c ,\ ... ; ,I .....J/II.~II".JI .,............ ""'.""~~-· .... "'-"~'4 ....-••,J-10 

The Observer -Sports Friday, February 29, 1980'-page l3 

Hicks spells defensive relief 
by :Frank LaGrotta Sportswrz'ter 
Defense on the Notre Dame basketball court has become practically synonomous with name Bill Hanzlik. And when the men are in the arena that just might be the case. But when Sharon Petro's women cagers take the floor, they look to senior forward Kelly Hicks to provide the necessary stopping power. 
And she rarely lets them down. 
"Kelly is a very intense, very dedicated athlete," comments Petro. ·'She comes to _practice every day with a rosiuve atti­tude and a rea desire to become the best player she can be. When we are going up against a team with a top scorer, more ofte n than not, Kelly draws the assignment to stop her." 
Sometimes that can mean a lot of pressure for the blonde­haired Texan who gets back on defense faster than a southern­er can say "Y'all." But Hicks has been surrounded by athle­tics all her life an·d she accepts the added responsibility as being part of the game. 
i 
I 
''I come from a very sports­oriented family," she reveals. "Both my brother and sister coach high school basketball and I've been playing since I was in high school.'' 
Hicks, who transferred 
after ' her sophomore year from StEdwards in Austin, TEX. ("The Notre Dame of the 
south,") she says about the private college that was also founded by the Holy Cross Fathers.) might never have come here at all if it weren't for the influence of her father. 
"He's a loyal alumnus," smiles Hicks, "and he lives and dies for Notre Dame. Every­thing with him is Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Notre Dame, so you might say I grew up surrounded by this place." 
But when she got here, she got the feeling that someone wasn't telling her the whole truth. 
''At first I felt out of place because the whole environment 
here is so different from Tex~ as," she admits. "The people here are more formal and life in general is more fast-paced. 
''I needed something to get involved with so I naturally gravitated toward athletics. I looked into the basketball pro­gram and I liked what I saw." 
And when she tried out for the team, Petro liked what she saw in the sharp-'shooting 
speedsterfrom Bandera, Texas. 
Kelly has a great shot and great quickness,'' smiles Petro when she thinks about her talented forward. "We would like her to be a bit heavier but she is playing very well right now and that's all that mat­ters. 
So Kelly Hicks found Notre 
Dame basketball and through 
It, many friends and a real 
.. . Fans 
[continued from page 16] 
January of 1974, snappmg the 
13ruins 88-game winning streak. 
Tht: hockey arena would be sold 
out for every game. Going to a 
hockey game would be a real 
happening. 
Digger and Dan need the 
student body to win games, 
from time to time. This week­
of Irish hockey. ~ affection for the University. 
"I didn't like it at first," she sighs, thinking of the 90 degree reading on her hometown ther­mometer right now. "I h;ite snow! But I have made some great friends through basket­ball and when you have people around you that you truly· like, then t~i.ngs start to look a little 
better.  
One  thing  that  has  really  
started  to  look  a  little  better  
since  Hicks'  arrival  at  Notre  

Dame is the women's basket­ball program. 
"It really has grown," Hicks points out. "When I first came here we would get maybe 50 people at our games, but this year we're getting maybe two or three hundred every game. That's great for us because every athlete plays better when they get support. 
And I think it can only get better," she summarizes quick­ly so as not to miss practice. "We're getting better players all the time--players like Shari Matvey, who can really make a difference in.a program. I think the whole thmg about women's athletics needing scholarships might be a bit overplayed. I know, at least for me, the game is just a lot of fun. And I'm afraid it might not be as much fun if we started getting a lot of money and scholarships. Mo­ney shouldn't be the whole objective of sports." 
The Irish will participate in the AlA W Division III state tournament at St. Mary's this weekend and although they've won districts the past two years, the state crown, as of yet has eluded them. · 
"I think we can win it all," emphasizes Hicks. "We play against Huntingtion, Goshen and Hanover this weekend and we've already beaten Hunting­ton and Goshen. Ifwe win state then I think there will be a whole new interest in women's basketball at Notre Dame." 
Hey, the records speak for 
themselves--just like Kelly 
Hicks speaks for herself. And 
Notre Dame is hearing plenty of 
good things from both. 
_j Summer Session 1.980 Hofstra Law School 
DAY AND EVENING COURSES 


For Further Information Write or Call 
Hofstra University School of Law Hempstead, New York 11550 
(516) 560·3636 



Sports Briefs _ _____, 
Women 's track club tocompete 
The Notre Dame Women's Track Club travels to Ypsilanti, Mich. on Saturday to compete in the Huron In.vitational. Joining host Eastern ~ichigaQ and Notrt; Da~e 10 the meet will be five other collegiate teams. The Insh wlil travel to the non-scoring invitational with 22 women under the direction of Coach Joe Cos tic. 
Volleyball tournament tobegin 
Jim O'Hanlon's Notre Dame men's volleyball wquad, currently in first place in the West Division of the MIV A return home, after their second consecutive tournament, for an all day tournament tomorrow at the ACC. The action begins at9:00 a.m. and continues throughout the afternoon. Admission is free. 

We've got a 


lhe Sub Machine 
MENU 
DELUXE COMBO HAM

(Ham-Pepperoni-Salami-Bologna) 

PASTRAMI
SUB MACHINE SPECIAL (/lam-Salami-Bologna) PEPPERONI 
ITAllAN (Pl'pperoni-S;i'lamil SALAMI 
MEATBAll BOLOGNA ALASKAN KING CRAB POLISH SAUSAGE TUNA ..CHEESE ROAST BEEF VEGETARIAN SUB 
------Servedwith your choice of-----­Onions • Lelluce• Tomawe• Pickles • Green Peppers • Black Olives Salt • Pepper • Oil • Vinegar • Mayonaise • Mustard 
------Oregano • Hot Sauce 



the Sub Machine 
2426 LINCOLNWAY WEST, MISH. 259-8110 
SUMMER SESSION ONIE May 27 . July 2 
COURSES CREDITS 
Advanced Procedure (Compares  3  
New York and Federal Procedure)  
Commercial Transactions Survey  4  
Criminal Procedure  4  
Evidence  4  
Family Law  3  
Federal Income Taxation of Individuals  4  
International Law  3  
Law and the Biomedical Sciences  3  
Real Estate Transactions  4  
Secured Transactions  3  
SUMMER SESSION TWO  
July 9 · August 19  
Business Organizations  4  
Commercial Paper  3  
Conflict of Laws  3  
Debtor· Creditor  3  
Federal Estate and Gift Tax  3  
Labor Law  3  
Legal Issues in Public Educ11tion  3  

SAPS pteaents on Satutday Match 8th  
TOm CHAPliN St. ffiaty's Little Theatet 8Pm  
untesetved seating SJ.OO ticke~~~!..9,ugh the smc ptogtammlt•g office 4-7 7  

you can't refu.se ! ! ! (AND WE'RE C.LOSE To THE CAmPUS, ATUS 31 N AND DAitDEN RD.) 
end, Lefty Smith needs the · 
52313 US 31 NORTH, SO. BEND 277-6355
students to save a life · the life.' 
coupon 
I ~ 
0
-
0 
all
I ::l 

" ., J'

Ia~ ·~ ~ il ~ .. I 
:::t 
.s:: ­

{I} 
~-~ ( I • 
The Observer ·Friday,February 29, 1980-·page 14 
Pigeons byJim McClure/Pat Byrnes .· .. leers 


Molarity by Michael Molinelli 




ACROSS 30 Chicago 1 Successful airfield 6 Gaelic 33 Short coat

The Daily Crossword 
10 Guam port 35 Soft shoe. 14 Relaxed 36 Zeno's 15 In a Penta­porch 
gon file 40 Tower above 17 Corncob and 42 Pre-eminent 
• meerschaum 44 Shave 18 From the­45 Society 
(publicly) girl 19 Bat wood 47 Runs off 20 Get-of to marry 
(familiar-48 Kenya 
ize) people 22 Letter 50 Ride the 23 Fledgling waves 
bird 51 Poker pair 25 Table bit 54 Well-let­26 -Gay (WWII tered place 
plane) 56 Part of 28 Requirement a blind 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 



SPOTUGHT PSYCHOLOGY-· 13fast -pacedand exciting quarter-hourfeatures ofusefulandinteresting information which every individual should have. 
l'lti. senes is a tirst in its effort to enhance public awareness ofrecent developments in the '>l'lencc and prauice of psychology and of the potential impact of research findings on the daily ltves of us all. This week's topic is: 

PSYCHOTHERAPY-WHATJJ2'SAUABOUT-tsa consumer'sguide which includes almost everything you ever wanted to know about psychotherapy andtherapists. 

59 Peer Gynt's 27 Wise men 
mother 29 Harden 60 Charlton 31 Cloche and kin 32 A Dean 
64 "When -to 33 Spinning sleep..... toy 
65 Redhead 34 Eggs 
67 Give a -37 First-rate (assist) 38 Unclose, 
69 Sometime to poets dancing 39 Onager surfaces 41 Soup or 
70 Dull pains jacket 
71 Wood 43 Elected, sorrels in Paris 
72 --daisy 46 Circus 73 Courageous tents 49 "...who DOWN lived in-·· Grecian 51 Ipso-flasks 52 Violinist 
2 Boistero"us Stern 3 Cumbersome 53 lpsissima ­material (the very 4 Simple words) 
sugar 55 Sweetheart 5 Nuisance 57 Malarial 6 Anesthetic fevers 7 "Fiddler" 58 Stowe 
perch character 8 Pour forth 61 Words to 9 Being: Lat. Brutus 
10 Perform 62 Traffic 
11 Utah city sign 
12 Ward off 63 Metal 
13 Bewildered refuse 
16 Fisherman 66 Literary 
21 Souped-up monogram cars 68 Old French 
24 Topless coin 
[, ontmued from page 16] 

more ro ric the Irish record f01 
career goal-scoring held by 
Eddie Bumbacco. 

Tickets remain available for 
b,Hh nights of this series. 
Speaking of tickets. team man­
ager Tom Etling se.:ms to have 
SlTn more than his share for 
tlus weekend. "Chet" sat in the 
lwckey office yesterday afrer­
no<>ll having to sort out no less 
til<lll 220 of the little buggers for 
the team. Included in the task 
was collecting payment for the 
va,.;t majDritv of them. 

Things did balance out for Cilu eventually in the ticket "' 1rt1ng, one of the many duties hv hao. performed this season skdllully and calmly -well, 111''"' of the time calmly -in wh;u i,.; most often a hectic '>IILWIH>n. Anyway, as his road p.II'IJllT, l can auest to the fact he c.u1 never recei.ve enough Lil'llll for his part in the Jl'"gr.un. Chet, it's been real. E11' 

• • .Paxson 
[continued from page 12] 

shouts Paxson. "A lor of those 
guys were there two years ago 
t,,r the upset.Youcai1besure 
C.>aLh Phelps will emphasize 
that. We are peaking now. 

There's plenty of evidence of 
that in the last win." 

The lith ranked Irish certain­
ly possess the credentials to 
gruund rhe weakened Flyers. 
Kelly Tripucka, hot-handed 
wll h 2H points against number­
unc DePaul, has a streak of six 
u1nsecutive 20 point games. 

Alung with the sophomore All­America selection Tripucka, Or­LtnJo Woolridge, Tracy jack­Sill!, Rich Branning an Bill Hanzlik have all seen more play111g rime of late as Digger prepares his tourney team un­Jn h1s new substitution policy (' •r lack of one). The first-five f,,r the Irish head toward yet another NCAA playoff with the needed experience and talent for a first Notre Dame National Championship, but they cannot nsk spoiling Paxson's home­u>ming by overlooking the Day­
ton Flyers. 





r-------------------------,
1 P~OCCHIO'SI 
I Ptzza Parlor 1 
J G~rgetown Shopping Plaza 1 





L----~~§Y-~~~1'1
I $2 OFF I $1 OFF 1
11--any large pizza I any small pizza 1 
-----------L------------~
1 Good ]an. thru Feb. 1980 only I INew Sunday Hours Wide Screen TV I 1 I-IOpm • • 
IHAPPY HOUR f II 4-6pm ~ I I Monday thru Friday I 

L------------------~------J 

.. .I 

The Observer •. Sports Friday,February29~193(J! Pll2e IS' 
by Btl/ Marquard Sports Wn"ter 

With its regular season just another page in the Irish history books, the Notre Dame wrest­

Grapplers 
ling team is preparing for a major test against national competition this weekend. 
Coach Ray Sepeta loaded his six-man team onto the plane

to engage 
yesterday and headed for the University of Nevada-Las Ve­gas, site of the 1980 Wesfern Regional Wrestling Champi­onships.
in regional The Irish finished a disap­pointing 4-14 in resular season fare, dropPing: thetr final dual meet by a 27-18 count to Purdue last week.Buthope~arerunning high in the Irish camp that several wrestlers will qualify for 





Classifieds 
1980. Was previously rented but is available again. Call Betsie 7753, 
Dana 7727, or Randee 8966 for more information. 
Notices 
Typing In home--close to N.D. Bast time to call--mornings or evenings after 6:30. 272-4895. 

Wanted 
Applications are now baing taken for Wanted: Ride to St. Louis, Mo. March
1980-81 WSND Business Manager. 
7 weekend. Pat 7233.
This is a paid position. Call Ann at 7425 between 3-5 pm for more information. 
I need aride to Madison this weekend. 
Please phone Mark 1388. Spring Break Daytona Trip--Bus Transportation with Hotel, $199. 
Overseas Jobs--Summer/year round. Drive n Save for $99. Drive'n Save to 
Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, Ft. Lauderdale $1 09; only six rooms 
etc. All' fields. $500-$1200 monthly. left. 6days/5 nights. For Information, Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free call Ken 283-1387. 
info. Write: 1-JC, Box 52-14, Corona Del Mar, Ca. 92625. 
Tuesday is ND-SMC Day at Royal Valley Ski Resort! 2 for 1 lift tickets 3-10 pm, also 2for 17-10 pm M-Tu-Th. 

For Sale
2 Chair lifts CLOSEST SKI AREA TO CAM PUS. Buchanan, Michigan. Portable black and white 11" Admiral · Typing Plus. Term papers, theses, television. Excellent condition, call 
dissertations. Light editing, ghost 283-8619. writing. Literary search, bibliogra­phies, genealogies. Job resume Flash: Photographic equipment for 
service. Sliding rate scale based on sale--fantastic bargains!--cameras,lead time. Special discounts on full lenses. call 232-4129. contracts for theses and dissertations. aardvark automatic soiutlons/p.o. box Need Bucks, will sell one-year old 1204/46224/phone (219( 289-6753. Fisher stereo system--25 watts, cas­
sette deck. turntable, speakers. There will be a MECHA meeting Excellent condition, great buy. Phone this Sunday at 2 pm In the first floor 
1943. parlor room of Lewis Hall. 
Lacrosse Equipment for Sale 
STX Stick: Barney Head with mesh ocket. K-Defenseman's handle. STX Regulation ball $20.00. Pama cleats

Lost&Found 
$10.00. All in very good condition. 
Call Mike 8379. Lost: A silver engraved Cross pen at Mardi Gras backstage room. Call 
Begin~ers guitar, Continental-Model Kevin 3670. 
DF-90, nylon strings. Excellent condi­tion $45. Call 7735 betw2en 9 am and Lost: Olive drab green army-style 
noon. base bail cap lost between main circle and Zahm. Must have--great value. Steve 8907 Reward. 

Personals 
Lost: glasses, brown and gold striped case. If found, call Linda SMC 4674. 
Hey AQ's! "Even though we ain't go money .. " Lost: SMC class ring. Initials MHK. 1: Angers be FUN, can NO.
can so Reward. Call 41-4723. 
Let's go for it in March!! Ca bourn? The Entertainer (alias Miss Co-SMC) 
Lost: Glasses in black case, possibly In Kelly,Eng. Aud., SDH, or Bookstore. If Ha! Ha! I killed him you drugged­found, call Mike 1609. 
out hippie! L?NGL?Y
Found: Silver digital watch In ACC, 2 weeks ago. Call Mike 1609. 
Bob, Laura Will you be too tired for Dayton?
Lost: Wallet, black--contains ID, Enjoy tonight and keep the lights on!
liscense, important papers. Call Mike Security Lady1609, No Questions Asked. 
JBI Found: Saturday night--key ring with How come you're never where I am 13 keys and a Powerful Pete Pocket anymore? Maybe we can get together screwdriver. Call Jim 233-3662. sometime. See you around? 
Big "C" Found: Pencil left in Observer office. Identify. Dave L and Jeff L: Good luck this weekend against Minnesota! I'll be there [In my leather] to cheer you on (although my 4.0 Is

For Rent 
going to suffer). Save me a hockey 
stick as a souvenir. I'II catch up with Student chooses: $10 shares Muse or you somewhere on NO Ave.•. $90 for furnished room with bath. $75 • "Irene" deposit. Call 289-0103 nights or weekends. Juniors: 
Charter flights, open bar and rent-a­Rooms. $40 month. Near. Rides. car; all this and more on the 1980 233-1329. Senior Class trip. $50 deposit due 
March 10-14. We rent dependable cars from $7.95 a day and 7 cents a mile. Ugly Duckling Bobby, Rent-A-Car. 921 E. Jefferson Blvd. Thank-you for everything. You're 
Mish, Ind. 255-2323. my #1 Canadian. Good luck on Friday 
=!Ad Saturday--1'11 be cheering you on. ' For Rent: 5-bedroom house at 713 Love, Kelly Notre Dame Ave.; available for 1980­1981 school vear bealnnlng Aua. 20. Third Annual Haooy Birthday Hapov 
the NCAA finals at Corvallis, l'.)regon in mid-March. 
Notre Dame's biggest threat t<h the rest of the Division I na~ional field is senior Dave Di_::J,abato. The 134-pound cap­tam, has advanced to the na­tional finaJs in each of the last two years, and with a 28-1 mark so fa!\ this season, indications are that a repeat performance is a reali~tic possibility. 
''Dave· has the talent and experience in the NCAA tour­nament to make an impressive sh~ing," remarked Sepeta. ''He has been unstoppable ~ince that early season loss.'' 
That loss in November was the second match DiSabato wrestled this season. He lost that decision 2-0 in overtime 
1and has since rattled off a team 
record of 27 victories in a row.· 
Irish captains Chris Favo and Mike Wilda also have a good shot at qualifying for the na­tionals, at 14-6-1 on the year, but, the senior Favo mtssed both the National Catholic and Wheaton tournaments this year. If his dual meet record is 
my  indication of his  talents,  
?avo  should  do  well  in  Las  
Vegas.  

"Chris is a very disciplined wrestler,'' .commented Sepeta. '·He works hard at conditioning and the like and really begins to peak at this point in the season when that work pays off.'' 
Senior captain Mike Wilda, a Norfolk, Va. native is 13-8-1 this year, including a thirdplace inio;;h !n the N<~~tional CathOlic tourney and a first place crO\VB at Wheaton. ­
''Mike has worked hard all season, and for all four years of his career, so I really hope he and Chris both do well," of­fered Sepeta. "Mike is strong and tactical on the mat--he can outsmart a lot of his oppo­nents.'' 
Rounding out the six-man Irish squad are Mark Fisher at 188 pounds {16-14), a National Ca~holic Champion along wii:h D1Sabato; sophomore John :glar (18-13-1), who has moved down to 167 pounds from 177 for the NCAA tournament; and senior Tom Wroblewski (17-9­l), Notre Dame's heavyweight standout 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue In which the ad is run. The Oburvtl' office will accept 
·­
classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
•classlfieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail. 
Hour at Nickles on ::;aturday, March 1st from 4-6. In honor of the birthdays of Bill Brittan, Kevin McKenna, Larry Marczak, and Tom Philbin. Everyone invited. 
Janet--the blonde from the Goose's raid--i positively must see you again to di.scuss court strategy and formulate alibis. If interested call Mike 6839. 
Lovebird, Lovebird, Lovebird Lovebird... Thanks for the cookies Jet 
Tomorrow's Chuck Schroll's Birthday Call him and wish him a happy one 288-8733. 
To My Secret Admirer, 
I don't play games unless the stakes are right. Why don't you put your cards on the table? 
Admiree 
Carol, 

That's right, I went home to Sparta. Anyplace Is better than here or Stacy anyway!
The Abusive Statistician 
Tim wouldn't talk to us if he didn't like us, right Tim? Boston Snob and Protege 
Let Lewis 2-S cater your next party! Call Greg Jaun for information. 
Jill Counts-Turlu Tu-Tu Herlu Berlu Cahpeau Pointu! To know this proverb and not go to Angier--what a waste! 
Bobbi Thompson Enjoyyour new panelling! The American Studies CofJee Club 
Dan Dutcher has officially declared March 2 to be a holiday! Party! 
Dutch Happy 21st Birthday. Is it true I'm still the only one? MCW 
Kevin H.l/7, 'Good luck this weekend to my favorite person from Wisconsin. Love, Trish 
KIT-If you had a real secret admirer today would be your day. 
Mike D. Beware ... lt's Sadie Hawkins Day A Friend 
John S. You look sooo good. Marry me. Kathy L. 
Need ride to DC area for spring break. Will pay. John 3084. 
Leslie, 

Happy Birthday! We love you lots! 
Mary, Mary Jane, Nitz, Peggy, Lynn, Mary, Cathy, Nancy, and "World Traveler" Domanico. 
Cast and Crew of "If They Could See Us Now", thanks, you've been great! Love, Anita 
Mimi-Rates are low now! Your admirer 
Ice (the malted m:lk ball), 
Good luck this weekend! Show them how it's done and score your number-­good things It's not 44. . Love, Dr. J (the peanut M &M) 
To my very best friend In the whole world! Happy birthday Mark! · Love, Kate 
f Jar casaduc,SKATE IRISH ICERSI! 
'd love to run my·fingers thru your hair, but I'm too·shy to even say hi.
College Days, Mon. & Tues. Style How about meeting somewhere?
Cuts $5.00. Jan's Beauty BoutiQue, 
RSVP · ' 
143 Dixieway. 
·Salt and Pepper To the cast and crew of "Teeth 'n' 
Sex, Drugs, and Rock n' Roll! To all
Smiles", break a leg tonight. 
those hardy partiers invited to FridayBill (props) 
night's big event at 621 Napoleon: 
Don't miss the best Leap Year's party Today Jill Ann Justice of the century. Ryan's punch will Is twenty-two knock you off your feet. 
Forget the kisses Just buy her a brawl Hey Irish and Minnesota Hockey fans! Have ahappy... Drink before the games this weekend 
, 
Wozand Garc at Bridget McGulres. Friday 3-8 pm. 3 drafts for $1.00 and 2 Kamikazes for Domers: $1.00. Saturday 4·7 pm 25 cent dtafts. 
March is "ND Can Be Fun Month" Really and truly, Trlsh, 
AQ's Sorry I have sean so little of you, but I promise to make It up when I return! Tim Mitchell, This Time It Is Me When are we going to get married, 
honey?! Minnesota Club Party Saturday Night Love, after the hockey game. Call Paul The Entertainer (8848) or Sue (4540) tor more Info. 
Jane Brown Need ride for two to Detroit-Ann Arbor 
Here's a personal from one of your area Friday March 7. !'lease call Carol may secret admirers. "I love seeing 1848. ­you three times a weak" ---------·-·-----­
P.S. Nice Valentine Flower ttention Seniors­----------------·Senior Arts Festival is coming.Dear FF: Please submit manu&cripts to Student 
Speaking of Valentine flowers, Union office, 2nd floor LaFortune by thank you for ours! March 7. Questions call Dave 8136. We Love You ---------------­
cc and mb Charles "Hoilywood" Dyer for UMOC ----------------Chucky is Yucky · Jilek Brankln, Charles "Hollywood" Dyer for UMOC We know you drlng cha111pagne ~-Chucky Is Yucky
while bathing In bubb'les, but what do ..._______________ you do when Terl comes over? Janet, ----------------Don't forget about your "secret Oh no!! It's Mr. Bill for u·MOC. admirer"! I plan to wine and dine you ----------------to win your heart! To the exclusive happy hour gang: _ 
Gator Hal:er Yes, we ·ve made it over another hump! New Orleans style Pardi GET YOUR SENIOR BAR SEMI Gras--you know where! Be there, 
FORMAL TICKETS DURING LUNCH alolia. 
IN LAFORTUNE AND DURING OPEN HOURS AT SENIO~i BAR. TU&S Kool-aid, 
26th-WED. 5th. Yeah--you. Orange 
OKAY DON MURDAY You've had your chance but you've Wanted: 2 beautiful neat and Intelli­
;;orne up empty handed--Carroll Hall gent girls to share apartment for 
own up to it. It's mine and I want It school year 1980-81. A good time Is 
back. I've been without for 2 whole guaranteed. Applicants please call 'llonths ever since that PFEISTER Jamie Gallagher or Todd Arends at 
JOE's BLOW OUT. I can't act respon­1211. sible much longer. Give me back my hat!! A bunch of great friends of mine are 
Slowey throwing a party tonight on Napoleon Ave. Come tonight and forget you're Two need ride to Chicago Southside. in South Bend, I plan to. I endorse It 
Feb. 29. Call 41-4518. · heartily along with thelpunch. Ryan "no doz" Ver Ber~onoes 
Who's Tom'Chapin ,?Come see Harry's brother at St. Mary's on March 8. Jane Doe Put on your best necktie and join 
Nee.l ride to Champaign-Urbana on f'lotre Dame's finest In 101 Sorin. 
Feb. 29 or March 7. Mark 1764. Music starts at 9 pm on Saturday, March 1. 
Charles "Hollywood" Dyer for UMOC John Q. Sorln 
Tha Forsaken Jamaican 

Gina, attending the party, he will be out of 
Attention: Bart Henderso1o Wl'ill not be 
Though I have gone home, my heart town. Sorry, Girls! stays hare with you. How about next time I make dinner? Deal? Our Ladies of the Lake, 
The Sparkle Top Admirer Put on your dancing shoes, Don tour favorite ties. 
What are you doing Saturday night? You ve got nommg to Jose, 
How about escorting the Vietnamese When you're with Sorln's guys. 
in South Bend to the hockey game? The Brothers Sorln 
' Call Volunteer Services 7308. P,!:. See you Sat. night at 101 Sorln. ,-:;tl-=---,.-------­
-~-"""":""------· -----­
Happy weekend! Hopll your ankle Is
Le5lie, .,...___________..-..-_ 
When will we both be well enough to ok. .MH reunite on Tuesday nights? 
Your favorite newscaster To All Magle-Shroom-heads: Hope the evening was de-light· ful.
Red Heads unite: Meeting of the Red Head League Monday, 11:30 In Lafor­Rocco tune ballroom.. ....-[The R.P.N. dog) 
......... - ....  ....-·~·  ;-..-.•  --------­ -­ ----:..--... ~--.­........ __  --·  ....,_.,...,. ____.__  ---·--·...--···------------~  
•  
~-~---­ 


r 
Friday, February 29, 1980-page 16


~orts 
Seniors' farewell? 
leers face crucial set 
by Brzan Beglane hllckey after this year," said Sports Wn"ter Michalek, who will probably 
When the Notre Dame hoc­kq: team and the Gophers of 1\!inne~lJta -the defending NCAA champions -face off t1l111ght and romorrow (7.30 
p.m. both games) at the ACC, will It be just another series? 
No, for several reasons. On tile political front, the Univt·rs­11\'·-; aJm,nistration still has not d~·cided the status of the prog­
-1 ,un, and that certainly wetghs !wavily on rhe mind of each -;katt:r. No, because the Western (,Jlkg~;ue Hockey Association: raLt' is as tight as ever and the ,,nly thing any1>nt' knows is that :"J,H·th Dakora is untouchable in I·Jrs1 place after clinching irs -,nonJ straight McNaughton Cup la,st week. Second place i\li, higan is just two games ab•" c· ."iOO and seventh place M1,l11gan Tech is two games lwluw that mark. Any reshuffl­lllg lrum second to last place is jliiSSibk. N,,, because this is the last rl'gular season horne series of !Ill' y~:ar for seniors Greg Mere­dith, Tom Mid1alek, Ted Welt­tin and Juhn Friedmann. And, oh yes, manager Turn Etling. The team is sponsoring its annual Parents and Alumni weekend as well. ''Our graduating seniors ~re a special group," says Irish Coach Lefty Smith. ''They have combined academics and ath­le.tics in a very unique way. Aftrr this season we say good­bye to four outstanding young men." All four have played a key role on the club this year, and the average grade point for the group is 3. 55. Meredith and Michalek were Rhodes Scholar­slup candidates ro boot. .. I look a~ this weeken.d ~~ JUst a very 1 1rnpurrant senes, ~~ud Meredith, who has been draftl'll by\ the NHL's Atlanta Flame-;. " f we win two. we uJuld move into second and -,1an our wa~· towards a suc­lt·-.slul finish ... That's 'important to ITI}' career. 
··11 means a lot to me because I won'1 be playing organized 
attend the Massachusetts Insti­
tutt: of Technology next fall to 
cuminue studies in electrical 
engineering. ·'The games mean 
a lot too because if we sweep we 
have a chance for second 
place." 
'·tf we get things rolling, we 
have a chance to finish well,'' 
said Weltzin, who will attend 
mnl1ca: school at the University 
uf Minnesota next fall. "We all 
wanr to play well in front of our 
pare1~1.s and go out on a good 
ll\1{ e. 
··Maybe by gametime it will 
lw me," said Friedmann, "but 
1 luok at this weekend as just 
anorher series. If we do well, 
we Gill finish well." 
Do111g well this weekend owrndes everything else for the Irish. A sweep will assure Srni1h's skatns of home ice in the palyoffs. They are in fourth place in the WCHA with a 13-12-1 record (17-15-1 overall). The Irish post a .519 winning percentage, and Colorade Col­lege affords Notre Dame no breathing room at .518. Fourth place is the last ticket for the home advanta~e. 
Minnesota 1s in third place with a 16-14 (20-14 overall). No less than five players with eligibility from Minnesota were a part of the U.S. Olympic hockey team's miracle weekend last week in Lake Placid. Brad Buetow has served as coach this 
<>eason while Herb Brooks took a leave of absence to coach the Olympians. 
The Irish and the Gophers ~pl11 their first season series in tilt-Twin Cities during January. Minm:sora won the first night (J·"i, 111 overtime, while Notre Dame took the second contest 6-). 
Tun Harrer heads into this weekend· s series for the Goph­ers wirh 46 goals this year, a Sl huol record. On the other side of the C1Jin, Meredith enters rill<> series for the Irish with 34 g1Jals, a record for goals in a sea-..,JII by a senior. He totals 97 111 h1s t.:areer and needs just six 
l· u/1/IIJII<'d on page 14] 

Isn't human nature funny? A lot of people 
never seem co appreciate anything they have (or 
had) until it's gone. And if, by chance, these 
people have the opportunity to salvage that 
cherished possession before it disappears, they 
will do almost anything to save it. 
Case in point -the Notre Dame Hockey team 
·'"J mwur .ljJortr. (t:acked on, in somf' · 
cases, as a mere tormahty). Because ot the 
immediate nature of the situation, consider jusr 
hockey for a moment. 
The fact that the program's future is in serious 
question has become almost common knowlege 
in recem weeks. The student body "rushed to 
the rescue" with a 3,500-signature petition 
gathered in just 20 hours. Then a demonstration 
at last Sunday's Marquette game with thou­
sands of signs reading "SAVE HOCKEY and, 
minor sports," (once again, convenienrlytacked 
on for formality) which national television 
conveniently chose to ignore. 
So the logical question from the decision 
makers: Where have you been for the last 
twelve years? Why don't you buy tickets and 
come to the game? 
Do you realize that if every person who either si~ned a petition or held up a sign, bought (or trted to buy) a ticket for this weekend's series, the scalpers would be in business? As of last night, hundreds of tickets remained unsold for 

Paxson returns to Dayton 
by Beth Huffman Women 's.Sports Editor 
The Tree shined against Tul­ane fur his home pitstop, Sali­nas showed-off at Texas Christ­ian, the California quad (Bran­ning, Mitchell, Hawkins and Kelly) did it to the Bruins, even Digger returned to his roots and bit the Big Apple. And now, it's finally John Paxson"s turn tu gu horne. , 
''I'm pretty excited · about 1t, · · says the freshman Paxson about his return to Dayton, Ohio. ''I've been waiting for this all year."'' 
Paxson, who actually resides 111 near-by Kettering, antici­pates a friendly reception in the city where he led the Alter Knights to the stare champion­ships and received literally uncountable praises in post season honors The 6-2 Paxson was edged by Clark Kellogg of Ohio State for Player of the Ycar award in 1979 while brother Jim, now with the ~-IBA 's Portland Trailblazers, wa-; hauling in All-America honors for the Dayton Flyers. 
Few avid Irish fans can forger the performance of rhe elder Paxson in last Jear's 86-71 clash. J1m pace the losing e<IU~t: with 32 points, super­ceded in performance only by Irish forward Kelly Tripucka With a career high 37. 
Dayton, a Jesuit operated university, sorely misses the talents of Jim, as the Flyers, 
!continued on page 12] 
Fencers' incredible streak ends 
DETROIT-·lOne of coll~ge athletics' m\:>st impressive streaks ever c~rne to an end yesterday when Wayne State defeated the Notre Dame fenc­ing team, 14-13. 
The Irish had ,won 122 straight dual matches, dating back to January 22, 1975. The last Notre Dame setback carne at the hands of New York University, 16-11. Coach Mike DeCicco's squad was hoping to post its fifth consecuti~e un­
Fans-where haveyou been??? 
Michael Ortman 

tonight's and tomorrow night's games with the defending national champions from Minnesota. 
The arena holds about 4,300 people, and over two thousand of the tickets are sold on a season basis (about 800 to students). 
For those who can remember, turn the clock back three years, affectionately known in Irish hockey as ''the year we almost made it.'' Going into the final game of the WCHA playoffs, Notre Dame held a six goal edge over visiting Minnesota (the team with the most goals after the two game series would advance to the illustrious Final Four). 1'he Golden Gophers pulled off what their coach Herb Brooks (hint: Gold Medal. .. Lake Placid... ) called "the g~eatest comeback in Minnesota history," a 9-2 wm. 
Had the Irish been able to hold on to that six goal edge, there is little doubt in my mind that the impact would have been similar to that after the Irish basketball team's upset ofUCLA in 
l~ tJilltnued on page 13], 
blemished season. Wayne State epee All-Ameri­
Wayne State, 12-0, claimed can Gil Pezza was inserted in the victory in the final bout of yesterday's foil line-up, joining last evening's match. With the Ernie Simon, another All­score tied, 13-13, epeeists Kev­American and former NCAA in Tindell of Notre Dame and gold medalist. The overload in Wayne's Mike Davis were knot­that weapon resulted in a ted at four touches each, forc­decisive 7-2 edge for the Tar­ing a "next touch wins" situa­tars. tion. 
Notre Dame's Andy Bonk,
Davis got the touch, and defending NCAA foil cham­Notre Dame's illustrious streak pion, lost to b<;>th Simo~. and had come to an end. The Irio;h Pezza in the fotl competmon. 
are now 17-1 on the season, and 
Notre Dame won the sabre, 6-3 will host Case Western Re­
and epee 5-4. 

serve, Michigan-Dearborn and Irish epeeist Rich Daly andWashington of St. Louis in sabrernan Greg Arrni were eachSaturday's season finale in the 3-0 to lead Notre Dame.
Ace. 




Bengal bouts to begin 
by Leo Latz Sporis Writer 

It's tuurnarnent time at Notre D.1me! This Sunday the ACC will be the setting for 36 of the hardest fought and most excit­ing matches ever staged on the amateur level. This Sunday Dominick J. "Nappy'' Napolit­ano and his Notre Dame Boxing Club will present the 50th Annual Bengal Mission Bouts. 
The Bouts started as a one night srno1<er in March, 1931. And after fifty years of pride and tradition both the tourna­ment and its director Napol­itan•' are stronger and more popular than ever. Nappy is 
dirl·cting  this  year's  boxing  
group with  a  renewed  amount  
of vim and vigor.  ,  

Nappy's excitement is under­
srand.ahle. More than 75 pugil­Ists are competing for the coveted weight class champion­ships and the golden jubilee wil! attral:t Bengal Bout alumni from all pans of the globe. One former buuter is flying from Germany to honor Nappy at his teswnonial on Sunday, March 
l), 

l3ut must of the attention is focused on the upcoming quar­ter-final matches this Sunday at 
2:00 and 7:30 p.m. And even m1Jre eyes will center on Tony Riu.:i's bid for his fourth Bengal Buut crown. 
135 Pounds This class is the most competitive of all the lighter divisions. Victor ''Rock­y'' Romano heads the list of lightweight boxers. The exper­
krmlinued on page 121 
• 






