-----~---------------­
, , , Defective Cars -page 7 
VOLUME XV• NO. 19 
an independent srudem newspaper serving none dame and saint mary's THURSDAY* SEPTEMBER 18, 1980 
Stepan TV 
to show ND-UMclash 
by David Rickabaugh 
In response to the NCAA 
television blackout of Notre 
Dame home football games, the 
Athletic Department, in cooper­
ation with Student Affairs, has 
arranged for the Saturday after­
noon Notre Dame/Michigan 
confrontation to be broadcast by 
closed circuit television in the 
Stepan Center. 
The plan was announced 
yesterday morning after the 
Athletic Department received 
approval from the NCAA and 
the University of Michigan. 
Athletic Department Business 
Manager Joe O'Brien stated ap­
proximately 2,000 seats would 
be available for Notre Dame 
students, staff, and faculty with­
out game tickets. Details regard­
ing ticket distribution and price 
will be announced tonight. 
O'Brien said an attempt to ac­
comodate a larger audience in 
the Athletic and Convocation 
Center was impractical because 
of the Friday night Poco concert 
and the Saturday night Anne 
Murray concert. 
If the court proceedings this 
morning go in favor of seven 
local lawyers protesting the 
NCAA decision, the closed cir­
cuit broadcast will be canceled. 
However, if the decision is up­
held the Athletic Department 
statc.:u that future Notre Dame 
football games not broadcast will 
be shown in the ACC via closed 
circuit television. 
O'Brien praised WNDU-TV, 
which normally telecast Fighting 
Irish football, for their assistance 
in locating a projector and organ­
izing a cable system from the 
Stadium to Stepan Center. 
The Stepan Center will not 
have the only showing of the 
I rish/W olvefines clash. Notre 
Dame and Michigan alumni in 
Washington, DC will be able to 
view the game on a similar closed 
circuit hookup. 


The Empire strikes httck? No, this gentleman makes ice for the ajJproaching hockey seasof. (Photo hy GreK Ma11rer) 

SMCexcluded 

ND class officers reveal plans for year 
The primary concern of the
~y Sue Kelleher 

junior class officersand advisory Notre Dame class officers met· council is financial in nature. this week with theirrespective Junior Class President Mikt· 
advisory councils to discuss plans for aproductive and enjoyable year. Following are brief sum­maries of the definite and tentative game plans of each class. 
There will be a class of '81 tailgater and concessionstand at the library reflecting pool for this Saturday's Michigan game. The seniors will also hold a Miami tailgater on October 11. Additionally, the seniors will sponsor a lottery for Michigan State tickets in La Fortuneat 7 
p.m. on Sunday. 
Other scheduled events are "Senior Night at the Drive-In" in Niles, next Wednesday.A party Cassidy laments that "the finan· cia! status of the class is very poor." Cassidyattributes this to outstanding debts from thl' previous two years. Hopefully, this problem can be overcome by various fund-raisers discussed at this week's meeting. 
The council plans to sell t­shirts designed by a member of the junior class. Ideas for the t­shirts must be submitted by September 30. The prize for the best design is $10.This Saturday, the class will sponsor a kegger, featuring hot dogs for $.25 on Green Field before and after, as well as during the Michigan game. The class willhave a con­

at Pulaski American Post will be .cession stand in front of Dillon 
held next Thursday. Halloween weekend has been dubbed "Beach wear at Senior Bar." Halloween festivities include a senior masquerade party at Seiger Mansion ori October 30. A racquetball tournament and party will be held in November. A senior trip to the Army game is scheduled for November 1. On November 8 or 9, there will be an "Urban Cowboy" jeans formal at Cinnabar's. Details on these and 
other events will be outlined in the senior newsletter. 
Hall this Saturday as well. Ac­cording to Cassidy, the class is off to a good start. Previous events such as the Purdue kegger, class mass and ice cream social were quite successful, so Cassidy hopes this trend will continue. 
On Monday, the class is sponsoring a lottery in LaFortune at 7 p.m. for Michigan State tickets. The limit is two tickets per person and the cost of each tickets is $10.00. 
(.'o11ti111ml oil /ltll{e 4 



New Freshman Register misses sometf?ing 
by Paul McGinn deletion. In reviewing the events sur­rounding the "dog book," Rich
When the Freshman Registers Coupola, Director of the Stu­were distributed last Friday, it dent Union, explained: "Whatseemed as though the "dog we pretty much put together isbooks" were a little thinner than 
usual. The reason: no Saint that it was a case of everybody Mary's girls were included. The assuming that the other person controversy surrounding the was following up on it. There was absence of Saint Mary's girls a lot of confusion at the end of from the Freshman Register last year. The student union had spurred great interest in finding just taken office and it was part of the persons to blame for the our administration to put to-

Gunmen, bombs kill &Jmoza 
ASUNCION, Paraguay (AP)-Ousted Nicaraguan leader Anastasio Somoza was assassinated -today in a barrage of bullets anu explosives that tore apart his automobile in central Asuncion, U.S. officials here reported His driver and bodyguard also were reported killed. 
A Somoza associate said one of the assassins was slain and two others were captured. But this report could not be confirmed immediately. 
t.yewitnesses said the heavily armed attackers threw bombs at the white Mercedes and riddled it with automatic weapons fire at an intersection eight blocks from the 54-year-old Nicaraguan exile's home. 
"Somoza was killed instantly, and his body is still in the car. The f,:ar is really rather blown apart," said Donna Marie Oglesby, a public affairs officer at the U.S. l!mbassy in Asuncion. 
An Asuncion radio report said the Nicaraguan's body was "virtually shredded" by some 25 bullets. 
Somoza was overthrown in July 1979 in a revolution led by leftist Sandinista guerrillas. Long a U.S. ally, he first fled to the United States, but he arrived in this South American nation Aug. 18, 1979, and was granted asylum by Paraguayan President Alfredo Stroessner, who said the Nicaraguan came here "in search of tranquility." 
In Miami, Manalo Reboso, a former Miami city commissioner and a friend of Somoza's, said he spoke with a Somoza staff member here and was told that one of the assailants was slain and two others were captured. But they were not idt:nti­fied. 
Reboso said Somoza, long a fitness enthusiast, was on his way to do his daily exercises when the attack occurred. 
An Asuncion radio station also said a fourth person, unidentified, was killed, but it was not clear whether this was one of the attackers. 
Continued on page 2 
gether the freshman register. We thought that the Student Activities Office of Notre Dame was getting the (mailing) labels for Saint Mary's. The Director of Student Activities, Jim MacDonald, this being his first year, thought that Saint Mary's was sending things over. Saint Mary's didn't realize they hadn't been asked (to send the labels over to Notre Dame to be forwarded to the publisher). lwerybody was in direct com­munication all through the summer, but it (the Freshman Register) never came up." 
"The publisher noticed there were nine fewer pages this year but he thought it was just a sign of a poor economy. So he didn't mention it, and he did not notice that Saint Mary's hadn't sent them (the address labels) in. It was just a case ofwhere everyone thought that someone else had done the job, basically because of all the confusion at the end ofthe year." 
"What we've decided to do now is to publish a supplement to the 'dog book.' Right now, Saint Mary's has all the picturel) of the freshmen. They will be taking orders for the supplement to be printed." 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame freshmen who originally ordered the "dog book" will receive the regi<;ter plus th~> <;upplement at no extra charge. 
"We got in touch with the publisher over the weekend, and as soon as he sends the materials up to us, we'll start the procedure over again with the Saint Mary's students and also with any Notre Dame student who now decides that he or she wants to be in the supplement.'' 
Those who did not originally apply for the "dog book" but who would like to be entered into the supplemt:nt will be charged about the same amount as the purchasers of the original register. Details on application for the supplement will be presented to students as soon as the Student Union receives the register materials from the publisher. The publisher main­tains that it will take about eight week~ to process the informa­tion and to print the books once it has received all the photos and personal data from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
As to the organization of the register for next year, Coupola said that the Student Union is talking about a dual sponsorship with Saint Mary's. In the past, Notre Dame was· the lone sponsor, with a member of the nome usually volunteering to do layouts for the Freshan Register. 
"Next year, perhaps we'll have 
r lmtinu~:d 011 page 3 
~-----~-~--~~---­


News Brief§ 
./ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
I~ a new initiative aimed at freeing the s2 A ·nencan hostages, the United States ha~ proposed a com­mission to examine Iranian grievances about past U.S. actions i1 I~an. U.~. officials confirmed yesterday a disclosure by !raman Prestdent Abolhassan Bani-Sadr that a new American proposal had been received for an inquiry commission to be set L P ifit was linked to release of the hostages, now in their 319th '~·•Y of captivity. l~xistence of the message, revealed by Bani­';.tdr in an interview with the French news agency Agence hance-Presse, indicated an increase in diplomatic exchanges 
•>n the hostage crisis. Bani-Sadr said that in his view in­.r•~stigation by a commission that would air Iranian grievances would meet Iran's demand for an investigation of"past crimes 1f the United States in Iran."-AP 
.Sat1;di Arabia announcedyesterday it wdl contmue to flood oil markets until at least the end of this vear, dashing hopes ofmilitant members ofthe world's oil cartel seeking higher prices. "We will keep our level ofproduction as it is" for tht· ent1re fourth quarter, Saudi Oil Minister Sheik Ahmtd :f.,tki Yamani told reporters before a final meeting ofoil ·11inisters from the 13-nation Organization of Petroleum l~xporting Countries to discuss current prices. The Venezuelan 
• 'ld Iraqi oil ministers said they expected no price changf's from the meetilll' and Yamani said militants would have to lower their pricf:'s behre Saudi Arabia would raise its. Saudi Arahia charges $28 a barrel forits crude oil, and argues this is closu to real market demand than the $3 7 charged by Libya and Algeria. -AP 
The lOth hijackinginsixweeksofaUSjet to Havana was pulled off yesterday by two Cuban refugees, who apparently disregarded warnings of severe punishments by the Castro government. They did so by tossing gasoline on a stewardess and carpet an4 threatening to set it on fire. A spokeswoman for the Federal Aviation Administration said authorities were working on a device that would detect flammable liquids at airport checkpoints. In the latest incident, two men commandeered a Delta Air Lines Boeing 727 jetliner as it carried 111 people from Atlanta to Columbia, S.C. Passengers on Flight 4 70 said two Cubans held up a small bottle of gasoline and a lighter and indicated they would start a fire if the jet was not flown to Havana. -AP 
Leftist guerrillas fired t~ree Chinese-made rocket grenades at the U.S. embassy in San Salvador Tuesday, from the roof of a building about 50 yards away. Two of them hit, but damage was confined to the roofand a vacant office and no one was hurt, witnesses and embassy spokesmen said. Shortly after the 1 p.m. attack, a radio station reported the People's Revolutionary Army fired the anti-tank devices at the heavily fortified embassy. The Salvadoran army quickly sur­rounded the building with 100 soldiers. 
The Soviet Union and its satellites have seized a commanding lead over the United States and its allies in both nuclear and conventional weapons, the authoritative International Institute for Strategic Studies said Thursday. The Institute, which has been consulted by leading governmental figures throughout the West, said it will take years to whi~tle away the lead of the Warsaw Pact nations. "Not until NATO begins to deploy new long-range (missile) systems in about 1983-R4 can any substantial increase in its capability be expected," the institute said in its annual survey of world military strength-the Military Balance 1980/ 1981. -AP 
The two-month strike by movie and · elevision actors saw its first major breakthrough yesterday as 1egotiators announced tentative agreement on payments for ~orne video, the key issue in the dispute. But nobody was redicting when the public would learn who shotJ.R. on the opular "Dallas" series. Other important economic questions, ntably base salaries and rates for residuals on films sold to devision and reruns of TV shows, remained to be settled ·~tween the actors and producers. Kim Fellner, spokeswoman <Jr the Screen Actors Guild, said negotiators hoped to present he executive boards and membership ofthe two unions with a omplete economic package for their approval or rejection. ''here were no immediate predictions as to when a new three­vear contract might be signed to end the 8-week strike, the rmgest everby SAG and theAmerican Federation ofTelevision .md Radio Artists. One studio official predicted that even if the strike were to end this week, it would be at least another six to eight weeks before most unfinished television programs could 
be rea.dy for broadcast. -AP 

Mostlv cloudy with highs in the upper 6os to low 70s. Varia'ble cloudiness and not as cool at night. Low in the low to mid 50s. Cloudy with· a chance of showers tomorrow. High in the low to mid 70s. 
Inside Thursday 

Carterlo~es debatewithouttrying 

It's almost like a catch phrase to say thatJimmy Carter has bungled again, but his mistake this time could reflect on his own fate instead ofjust the fate of the country. Carter has chosen to bypass the nationally televised debates set up by the League of Women Voters, leaving Ronald Reagan and John Anderson with 90 minutes of prime time to themselves this Sunday. Carter's backers are wagering that the two Republicans will be by themselves, that America won't tune in, but you'd be smart to take them up on that bet. 
Carter's original position seemed like an 
intelligent, if highly political, move designed to 
push Anderson from the public consciousness 
once and for all. Carter claimed, and still claims, 
that Anderson's independen.t candidacy deserved 
no better recognition than lesser knowns bd Clark 
and Barry Commoner, and that he would debate 
all independents after he faced Reagan. This 
occurred while Anderson's popularity was on the 
wane, over the summer, and it followed that 
Anderson's exclusion from the debates would 
finish his campaign, for all intents and purposes. 
But as summer ended, the aura 
of the conventions faded away, 
and voters reluctantly came to 
the realization that Carter and 
Reagan had not lost their 
nominations; they were indeed 
to be the final choice. This of 
course inspired a reexamination 
of]ohnAnderson. TheLeagueof 
Women Voters helped: refusing 
to be muscled by the White 
House, they invited Anderson in 
spite of Carter's edict. 
This left the President with the 
unenviable choice of either 1) 
joining the debate, and backing 
down on his earlier statement, or 
2) staying out, and standing by his word. 
The Carter folks chose Door No. 2, knowing that two things could happen from here. Americans.eould say, "Well, the president's not in there, so I'm not gonna watch." Or they could watch. And the possibilities from there are limitless. ­

Reagan is a smooth, convincing speaker with a relaxed style which appeals to many people. Anderson is a polished orator who speaks in full sentences with well-organized thoughts. His performance in January's Iowa GOP debates distinguished him from the rest ofthe crowd. The two men could come offwell, especially since they agree fundamentally on several key issues. 

TheDhs.etYer 
IJeJiKII h'ditor .............. Reno 
A.rt. T>t·~l{ll Rdit!Jr. . Blomlie A nnit: 
Nf,i.;/Jt'7i,du!ia{m......... Ci-Mun~ 
< ''/JJ' h'tlitnr ....... Jersl'y Casey 
Nm1.r Rditor . ... . ..... TeeJay 
Sji!Jrt.r Loyo11t ........... Tryin' B. 
Typirt.r .... Myrtle,Marilyn,Kathy 
'1riV Rdit!Jr. . . . . . . . . . . B-B Doll h'd. Lt!l''"'' ........... ·, ···ni Curls Ph!Jtogrt~phcr ........ Laffin' Greg 
(;lll'.ff Apperlrmm'.l' l11metl In Bv Such f.,nl('lk.l' A.r ... No! loz, The Boss!, C<luntry, Bum!, :•nd K C city! 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is publishedby the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved. 
Tom 


Jackman 
News Editor 
The other end of the spectrum remains as the Carter camp's only hope now. Reagan could come up with another disastrous misstatement, or he could conceivably be nailed to the wall by a tough question from a member of the panel. Anderson can sometimes appear impossibly self-righteous, and he could offend many viewers that way. 
These last possibilities are unlikely. Both Reagan and Anderson have been through enough debates in their careers to know what to expect, and their remarks will undoubtedly be extremely guarded, so as not to offend any of the potential voters they could be picking up. 
You may notice a remarkable similarity between this debate and the one in February in New Hampshire. In both, Reagan has appeared to be the open-minded, ready-for-anything candidate 
. -~ , 
while Hush and Carter have come off as stiff-necked crybabies. Bush didn't deserve the treat­ment he got, and he suffered for it. Carter, however, chose to have it this way, and he deserves everything he gets. 
President Carter should have entered the debates. Going back on his word is a sin he has committed ~untless times before, even on this particular issue (originally, he would never debate Anderson), so it wouldn't really damage him to do it again. Carter has proven himself in ptevious debates, and his con­frontation with both Reagan and Anderson is one we deserve, and anxiously await as well. . 
)nstead, Carter has gambled and stayed out. It may cost him. 
... &Jmoza 
Continued from page 1 
Paraguayan radio reports said the attack occur~ed at about 10:30 a.m. at the intersection of Amenca and bspana Avenues, about 10 minutes from downtown Asuncion and two blocks from the U.S . .i:'.mbassy. 
ANYTHING GROWS 10% DISCOUNT 
PRESENT THIS
FLORIST -campus delivery 
COUPON 
HOUSE PLANTS 
ND-SMC 9/80
GIFTS, ANTIQUES 
N. IRONWOOD

272­
at
HOUSE PLANTS 
TOLL ROAD
8820
GIFTS, ANTIQUES DIRECTLY 
EAST of CAMPUS


GARDEN CENTER 
1I 4mi. N. of Douglas 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
ISophomore!Ciass Lottery~ ~ For Michigan State ~ 
~ ~ 
~ 50 Tickets Available ~ I STEPANCENTER ~ ~ MondaySept.22at8:00 
~ $12 per ticket I§J
~ ~ 
Gil does NOT include transportation Gil 
I§] Gil 
I§J Must be present with Soph.ID to win I§J 
~ g 

--------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------­
-

The Observer 
. ----·~-­


John Paul II attacks Italian abortion laws 
By Samuel Koo demands absolute , respect for 
Associated Press Wrtter sovereignty when it comes to his 
VATICAN CITY-PopeJohn . native Poland," said Parliament Paul Il's campaign to overturn member Fortuna, referring to Italy's liberal abortion law has John Paul's appeals during the provoked angry personal attacks recent Polish labor crisis. on the pontiff and rekindled the "A scandalous and shameful bitter controversy between the insult to the nation's law," Roman Catholic Church and charged the floor }eader of the Italy's secular political parties. Radical Party, Adelaid Aglietta. 
"The pope's attack (on abor-"This pope from afar has learned tton) is a challenge to the to play Italian politics and thinks sovereignty of our nation," de-he can mobilize a majority in his clared Loris Fortuna, a Socialist attempt to interfere with the member of Parliament, who an-Italian legal process," observed nounced the formation of an Alfonso Gianni, a deputy of the inter-party group to "protect" far left Democratic Party for the two-year-old abortion law. Proletariat Unity. enacted over vigorous op-L'Unita; the Italian position from the church and the Communist Party newspaper, church-backed Christian demanded that the pope "cease Democratic Party, the law per-his maneuvers forthwith." mits free abortions on demand "Say okay to contraceptton, for women aged 1 H or over in the then you won't have any abor­first 90 days of pregnancy. tion tG worry about," said a Nearly 200,000 legal abortions spokesman for a nationwide 
~~~~~z~~~~n,:~J\ji10CIUS~~~~~~,gr,§,~~·~"'·i! 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:·:·:·:·:·:::::::·:·:·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::;:;:::::::::::::::: John Paul, in an effort to build' tion, AlcD. The Vatican bans all 
momentum for a Vatican con­ference ofmore than 200 bishops on the role of modern Christian family starting Sept. 26, has mounted new strong attacks on abortion and artifical means of birth control. 
"Maternity is sacred," the pope declared during a visit to Siena last Sunday. standing next to Cardinal Giovanni Bennelli-of Florence, a leader of Italy's anti­
abortion movement. "How is it possible to speak of human righ ~when the life ofthe unborn is threatened?" 
In a visit to a Rome suburb last 
week, the pope condemned 
• "attacks on fecundity itself with means that human and Christian ethics must consider illicit." 
"What is euphemistically cal­lt.:d 'interruption of pregnancy' cannot be judged from. a view­point of authentic humaneness by anything except moral laws, conscience," the pope said on another occasion. 
His remarks immediately evoked sharp criticism of the popular Po1ish-born pontiff from a wide spectrum of liberal and left-wing quarters of Italian politics. 
"This is the same pope who 
... Book 

Ctmlinlled(rom /}(1/!,1' / 
Saint Mary's get together their stuff, and we'll get together our stuff. It'll be the same book, but then.:'ll be a Notre Dame section and a Saint Mary's section." 
Rather  than  the  Freshman  
Register  being  the  sole  re­ 
sponsibility  of  Notre  Dame,  

·coupola hopes that Saint Mary's 
will have a hand in putting the 
"dog book" together. 
"We decided that there was too little time (to put the register together), and that next year we would put together the Fresh­man Register so that the new administration woulun't have to worry about it, so they wouldn't have all the problems we had." 
forms of contraception •usi11g devices and chemicals such as the pill. 
The church's Synod, held once every three years, is i;Xpected to endorse John Paul's strong op­position to abortion, divorce and 
artificial contraceptjon. Many Vatican analysts see it as the formal opening of the church's legal battle to repeal the abortion law. 


NDSV PRESENTS 
''An Eveningof Danee'' 

Homeeoming Danee 1980 
Band:The Game Date:Sat. Sept.zo Tinae:9:oopna -J::oopna Place:Centu~ Center Ticflets:$6.oojcouple In advance 
Thursday,September 18, i980-page 3 


Pictured here is the new weight room exclusively for use ~Y vamty athletes. (Photo by Greg Mflurer) 








$· BRIDGET'S ~ 
PRESENTS PRE-MICHIGAN WARM-UPS KENTUCKY SILK PARTY 
THURS, SEPT 18; 8:00 -2:00 RETURN OF THE PUNK ROCK 

I 
HAPPYHOUR ~ 
FRIDAY 3:00-7:00 P/i-!f

PRE-GAMEI 

OPEN 10:00amSAT.-2for1 BLOODYMARYS&SCREWDRIVERSI 
SHAKE DOWN THE THUNDER 


Buyyour shakers by 1:00 p.m. Friday and be eligible to win 2POCO tickets and 2 Homecoming Dance Tickets 

On sale in the dining halls Thursday, September 18 (lunch and dinner) and Friday, September 19 (lunch). And at St. Mary's 'college in leMons Lobby. 
This Weekend ....The Nazz 
Thursday Friday 



Saturday 
9:00 
Openstage 

9:00 
Dan Zimmerman 




11:00 To BeAnnounced 
9:00 TommyK 
11 :00 The Belletones 
Basement Of Lafortune ---Free 

The Observer 



INTEGRATED .. STEREO 

SYSTEM 
• 
AM/FM STEREO FM RECEIVER 

• 
CASSETIE TAPE PLAYER/RECORDER 

• 
BElT-DRIVE TURNTABLE 


t 

plus 
Zenith 
Allegro 2000 
Two-Way 
Tuned-Port 
Speakers 
MODEL 184090 

Featuring • AM/FM/Stereo FM Tuner-Amplifier with 15 watts min. 
continuous RMS power per channel from 40 to 20,000 Hz into 8 ohms 
with 0.5% or less THD • Cassette Tape Player-Recorder with Dolby* 
Noise-Reduction System • Programmable/Automatic Belt-Drive 
Turntable/Changer with 24-Pole Synchronous Motor. 
*TM of Dolby Laboratories, Inc. 






$46900 
ALL THIS FOR ONLY • 
Audio ... The Flipside of Zenith. 
~IJ'N The quality goes in before the name goes on® 
ESLINGER FURNITURE AND APPLIANCES OPEN 2701 S. MICHIGAN SOUTH BEND ON -FRI. 9-9 291-2976 
~~~. rt ...MASTER CHARGE ANO VISA ACCEPTED" 

Thursday,September 18,1980 -page4 
. (.'rmtinuedfrom jJage 1 
New business discussed by the juniors included plans for a mixed-doubles tennis tourna­ment, featuring a wine and cheese party in addition to prizes for the winning teams. The tournament is tentatively scheduled for October 10. "Junior Bar'' is a collective term for a series of Friday afternoon happy hours to be held in different halls each week.A major event scheduled fornext semester is "Chicago Weekend." The officers and council wouldlike to rent hotel rooms over a weekend and obtain tickets to a Chicago show. 
Karaffa 
enters priesthood 
Fr. James G. Karaffa, a 1974 graduate of Notre Dame, was ordained to the priesthood for the Congregation ofHoly Cross Saturday evening in Sacred Heart Church by BishopJames 
H. MacDonald. 
Karaffa was born in Cleveland on Jan. 10, 1952.After gradu­ation from St. bdward High Schodl there in 1970 heentered the St. Joseph Hall program at Nl) and graduated from the 
University in '74. For the past year Karaffa has served as a deacon at St. Stephen's Parish, South Bend. His first assignment as a newly ordained priest will take him to the Holy Cross Community in 
Phoenix this September.
,------------·
1 need printing 11 in a hurr{? 1 
1100 -llxl7 postersI I only$10.00 I 
I I I ·.r 203 N. Main I
I ~ .. I I® • ...~South Bend 1
I ., I 
1I 1I 
289-6977 

I the wiz of the I 1 printing bizl 1 



L-----------­
... Classes 
The class newsletter will go out bi-monthly to keep class me·n­bers well-informed. 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Class of'83 is sponsoring a"Welcome Back Bash" at Guiseppe's this weekend. The cover charge is $2 and an ND or SMC ID is required. 
The sophomore class lottery for 50 Michigan State tickets will be held in Stepan Center on September 22. Doors openat 7 
p.m. 
and the lottery begins at 8 

p.m. 
The winners must present their ID cards and pay for tickets when announced.Transporta­tion will not be provided in order to keep the cost of the tickets down·. 


At this week's meeting, the sophomore class officers and the advisory council discuss-ed tenta­tive plans for an "evening o mellow music" provided by the musical ensemble that plays at the 12:15 Sacred Heart mass on Sundays. The group of 10 musicians has already recorded an album of liturgical music, but would like to branch out to more popular easy-listeningmusic. Plans are in the works for a possible ski trip and tubing party later this year. Also discussed was a class mass at the Grotto. The tentative date is September 28. The council and its officers welcome ideas for Halloween festivities. New committees to take on these projects will be forming shortly. President Moe Rugg~iro reminds all interested sophomores that meetings are held ever,y Tuesday at 6:30p.m. in La Fortune. 
The Freshman Advisory Council had its organizational meeting this past week. The names ofchosen representatives and planned activities will be announced next week. 
ALL ARTS & LETIERS STUDENTS INTERESTED IN APPLYING FOR COLLEGE COUNCIL please contact 
OONSCHMID8764 
or CINDY BUUK 1674 Deadline for Application: 
Monday, Sept. 22 
T!Vti C1-\E'A P PLII.CE (~HN OIJTLEi) 
10 1b 8 MON.-SAI. 
then you need to check out 
HTHAT,CHEAP PLACE" 
on the corner of 23 and Edison. 
You11 find over IS brands of famous label ieans,including the most famous brand name in ieans. We11 also save you 40-70 off of regular retail prices. Shirts, tops, blouses and coats too. 
mastercard 
bank americard 
-------~~----------------------­
The Observer Thursday, September 18, f980--page5­
QUARTS (per case) 
Blatz $7.79 Busch $9.49 Budweiser $9.19 Colt45 $8.79 Falstaff $7.79 Hamms $7.79 Miller $10.09 Miller Ute $10.49 Old English $9.49 Old Milwaukee $8.64 Olympia 
$9.29 stores open 9-9
Pabst $8.59 Schlitz 
$8.98 
Schlitz Malt 

$10.09 
Schoenling Uttle Kings $8.79 

1/2 brl Big..Ug $8.29 Budweiser 37.00 44.00

Michelob win a week away...guess the 
rStrohs 37.00 date &time of our 1 millionth 
Pabst 35.50 customer and win a trip for two 
Miller 38.00 
to Los Vegas. 

Miller Ute 38.00 
Current count is 959,039 
Olympia 35.00 Lowenbrau 44.00 Heinekens 71.50 
1I4 brl 
22.50 24.50 22.00 21.50 


Case Discount Poli 
. 
liquor Full Case 10% Split Case 5% 
wine Mixed Case 15% Split Case 10% 
(some exceptions) 

Old Milwaukee 24.98­
Pabst loose $5.98 Natural lite loose $6.49 Miller 4/6 packs $6.79 Blatz 2112 packs $5.78 Hamms 4/6 packs $6.19 Strohs lite 2112 packs $6.49 Strohs 2112 packs $6.59 Old Style 2112 packs $6.69 Red White & Blue loose $5.19 
John O"Hanlon-Cias~; ofl965 Sponsor ND Volleyball Team 




an on's
' 
WAREHOUSE LIQUORS 
Thursday, September 18, 1980-page6 
Editorials 
P.O. BoxQ
Profs' coaches t' hven given the fact that out-' equally with the coaches,
/ ,, ,nO .side donors are paying for "the 
· '
£ 
equa1 , 0 COUrSe 
Dear Edttor: 
Sitting in my 8 x 10 windowless battleship-grey metallic cave-· like office buried. beneath the
Memorial Library, I was some­what bemused to learn from an J Observer item ~9/1 0/80) that the 'coaches'· offt·l·es are gett"ng the·r t
, t 
. ann al decoratt"ng cherry wood, brass and glass, wih off-white and burgundy furnish­ings," what does this say about the priorities of this University? Here I (and most of my fellow professors in arts and letters) have been buried in so-called temporary offices for 17 years
· h 1 · f 
~~:~:~ti~~ yf;~~ueth~0 ~~~:~s 
above. N I f II I' h 
c c .
bl~-·~~u~~r~e~-~~~~·===d~~·e~~~o~r~s=a~r~e~n~o~t~t~o~~e~v;a~u~e~~sgru~d~e~ngt~s~fugrgcgogng~gr~egocge§s~ogn~tgh~e=cwr the sun ts·n · dlb.egm tt~n~~h 9p~ttro
aggmg an b
~ 
"I 't .t b . o stops 

Badcase of bUSiftess card blues 
WASHINGTON-Itseems thatevery evening I come home I find my coat loaded down with businesscardsofpeopleldon'tknoworeverhope to see again. 
My problem is not thad accept the cards; butl refuse to throw them away.There is somethingjri me that says someday l'!fll want toget in tR · 
with. the vice president of the Tif.ne$Ure Disposable Watch Company or "Thomas Firth;... Birdbath Appri:tiser." The cards pile up on the dresser, and every oncf:! in a while, my wift:: asks if 
· 
she canthrow them away,_"Are you crazy?'' I yell. 
· 
"Every card on that dresserisa poten.·tial friend, or a customer, or someone_ who can provide a 
service." ' 
She'll pick up one_ofthe c:;ards.' "What parence Dogwhistle do for you?" 
"Clarence, ifyou mU$t know, sat next to 1lle ·•····•·•·•·•·• the plane and happens to raise Arabian horses. If we ever go to Arabia, he could provide us with a
horse." 
There is a social peckmg' order to business cards thatmanypeoplearenotawareof.Verylowonthe sea e are 1 t hose w ho have everything printed about themselves on the cards. "Henry Gluestein, Fur Repairs, New Linings, Collar Renovations, 153 Main Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. Established 1923. Telephone: 333·5460. Open Mondays through Saturdays 9·6, and Thursday evenings until8.. We . accept credit cards." 
Next on the ladder are those who must still identify what they do for a living. "Nancy Gordon-Attorney at Law, Goodfriend, Goodfriend, & Badfriend," with address and telephone included. 
Finally,atthetop,arethepeoplewhohavecards with just their name on it, and no further identi fication, address or telephone number. 
These people are so sec:Ure, they assume y:oti'llP' >ups what baseball~ards are to youngste 

know who they are and whar they do-and if you don't, tough luck for you. A few weeks ago, I found one on my dresser which jliStsaid "Ira Harris'' on it. Istaredatitforan 
Doonesbury 
YOU KNOW. M/1<13, /Aia.L, MAYN, 
I AWJAYS GNVIW 8liT fXJN'T MOM fOR. RJ/NN/1¥3 f0/?E£T, J. J., AWAYWITH ;ou6{/'tj. SHC !AlA~ AEXT 70 IER5, MY NEARLY 40 
especially those who generate revenues, but I might hope that the Universiy would see fit to 
· house me and my fellow pro­fessors in offices at least as good as those provided for the coaches' secretaries-'-certainly not the case now. But then, I suppose I really
h 
~~e~~~:t~~t~=~nic;~~~~!~ 
some twenty-two years ago, I had 
ow, u y rea tze t at pro-no office at alL I had to meet
b I d I 

Art 
a 

hour, trying to remember who Ira Harris was and why he gave mehis card. hurnedit over, butthere was no clue there. ThenJ held it up to the light; hoping ·against hope there would be an in .Jible watermark that mightf:i,P me off. Noehing. 1'"'' 
~ther than forg~rt it,' htart,~dtod , every wakingmome . Harris/' If he 
just put the city or$ here he came from the card, I'm sure I would have recalled what did. I wondered ifhe }lad a family, and whether~¢
h · d h la ····· 
was aving a ntce summer. Di e p y tennis;()!
h 1c ~ d h · 
was e a go 1err Di . e own his own business, or
c 1· l · ···· did h k 10t a mu tmationa ? ··· 
· e wor · · · 
It drove me crazy until someone gave me a card 
whihc? just said."Maduge_Ur;nston" on it--'a~ pr~fem:a~a!~:s~tudentsbrought . mg e1se. I imme,ia:tey1 ~prgot Ira Harris and the team out on the field and .s artedfantasizing abOlJ.t;Ma.ude. Was she a ''9 stayed with them throughout the 
was she a "iO?'' It was mJ;~.ch more fun tryin entire game, and even after the recall Maude than it was Ita.
People deal with other people's businesscardslrt game, was thriiling and heart-
r warming.dif· rerent ways. I have a friend who keeps everyone AII I can say is,1 ds
ese'sbusinesscar inhiswallet. Whenastranger W A d
· h' h' d f d h f ' l' RJ:N.D.",an youarethe
gtves tm ts car • my rien gives im one rom greatest student body in the the stockpile he carries with him. He feels he'$ world. 
doing a public service because he's keepillg everyone's business cards in circulation. __ iii •­
!<have anoth~rftiend w;hq'is a practica!Jok~tr He'll_ take a stranger's business card'--let's sa,y:;a vice ptesident ofthe Bari.k ofAmerica .L. and hold it until a pal checks into the Beverly Wilshire Hotel. Then he'll give the card to the room clerk and ask him to put it iri the pal's box. On the back he'll write, "Waited for you for two hours. Willbe back at 8:30 tomorrow morning. Please be in the lobby or the deal is off.''" 
The importance of business cards in American life cannot be overest~mated~ They are to gro .... 
treasure every one I ever got. .;;w;r 
I've been offered $400 for my "Maude Urmston" card by a collector in Seattle. But l'rn not selling until I find out who the hell she is. 
I /<NOW, 8tiT NOll-liNG &V&R HAPPeNS 7lJ M&. rM ALR&II/71 A S(JJ}{JVI()R& ANlJ I HAVEN'T &VCN /Jt61JN 1lJ UV8 YeT. 
SO FAR, 7H13 HfGHJ./(jffTOFMY LifE HA'3 8&EN TH& N&8C I SPeNT IN ASPW ~ITH MY . 
/.OVER lA/HEN IEGQT5ll;W5[J JINIJ IAJRNEI?ll®VHIS 8055'5 
benches outside the Art Gallery :shadowy and illdefined depart­(peripatetic like Aristotle). My ]ment." 
elevation to a musty old room on the fourth . floor of the Administration Office (hazard­ous insurance not supplied), and later to a room on third O'Shaughnessy wih six desks for eight professors (no telephone) 
d 
rna e my move to my present underground cell in the library seem then not so much a descent as a resurrection. But after
h h 
seventeen years ere, my ope ' . I I'll I . 
. anyone w y.
to murmur, sn 1 a out ttme the Univ~rsity provided a hu-In the meantime, let me just mane environment for work a?d say this: American Studies start­
. conferences consonant wtth ed as a Journalism Department. what we all believe are its high Later it broadened to a Com­
1"d I ~" 
ea s. 
Robert f. Lordi TJepartment of English 


Devine Sentiments 
Dear Editor, 
The student body was super fantastic at the pep rally the Friday before Purdue. People
who have been here longer than my six years tell me it was the greatest ever, including some of the terrific Southern California 
Dan TJevine Head Football Coach 

Am. Std. touted as solution 
TJear Edtior: 
Fifty-five Notre Dame stud­ents graduated last year with a specialty in communications/­journalism within the Program in American Studies. These Am­Stud majors would be surprised to know, as News i'.ditor John McGrath put it in his column last Tuesday, that they are part of"a 
by Garry/Trudeau 

Surely AmStud does not lurk 
in the shadows. We are the 
second most popular depart­
ment in the College of Arts and 
Letters. Just because Mr. 
McGrath doesn't understand ' 
American Studies at Notre 
Dame doesn't mean that its 
definition is ilL On the contrary, 
tl 200 . d d
curren y maJors un erstan 
munication Arts Department (which it still is in the summer session), and finally it broadened again into American Studies. 
The idea is simple: Journalists must have something to journal­ize about, so Notre Dame places journalism into the context of American thought, culture and society. 
The student of journalism at Notre Dame chooses one or two specialty areas in addition to journalism; he or she studies journalism within the context of American history, American 
government, American liter­ature, American social science or American fine art. The journalist at Notre Dame thus learns more than how to write a headline, or 
even more than how to write a column about journalism at Notre Dame. 
And that journalism student at Notre Da,pe also does just about everything Mr. McGrath asked for: The AmStud journalism student works with professionals 
at WNDU in telecommunica­tions, in television production in an internship in broadcasti~g; that student can take credit 
internships with professionals in newspaper journalism, in public relations, in book publishing; that student does indeed get practical experience at WSND on' The Scholastic, even on Th; Observer. 
Good facilities and faculty. A good program. Noted through­out the country for its unique combination of journalism and American culture. Our hundreds 
of graduates who are profession­al journalists and editors tell us to 
do it our way. Yet we want to get better. The concern of people like Mr. McGrath might help us 
to get better. McGrath, and more.  Stop we'll  by, tell  Mr. you  
Cnrdially,  

TJonald P. Costello Chairman ofAmerican Studies 

Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
'{he qbserver is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Umverslty of~<?tre Dame du ~~and. Saint ~ary'~ Colle~e. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of th~ a~mmtstrauon _of euhe~ m~tituuon. The news is reponed as ~cc.ur~tely and _as <_>bJecuvely as possible.-Edm~n~ls represent the opinion of a maJor~ty of the Edttonal Board. Commentanes, opmwns, and letters are the views of their authors..Column SJ?ace is_ 3:vailable to all members of the; community, and the free expressiOn of varymg optmons on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
.... Paul Mullaney Managrng Editor ............. Mark Rust Edltonals Editor... . Mike Onufrak Senwr Copy Editor .. ...... Lynne Daley News Editor .................. Pam Degnan 
Ne~'S Editor·· ... ·· ......... Tom) ackmanProuuction Manager......... John McGrath SMC Executlt•e Editor .. Margie Brassil 
SMC Nrws Editor ........... Mary Leavirt Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman Features Editor .............. Kate Farrell Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe Photo Editor .................. John Macor 
Business Manager .. ...... Greg Hedges 



Features 
Thursday, September 18, 1980-page ·---7 



The multi-metamorphisized coun­try-rock band trying to become hard rock powerhouses, Poco, appears tomorrow night in the ACC at 8:30 p.m., featuring their new album, 
Under the Gun. 
At this writing, less than 2000 tickets had been sold for this concert, a disappointing turnout for a group which MCA Records, Poco's record­ing label, has been ~ushing extreme­ly hard. This tour, atmed primarily at the market who bought the five-ptece band's previous and highly success­ful LP, Legend, hopes to capture the attention of the volatile college crowd. If the apathetic sales of this Notre Dame concert is any indication, this strategy is doomed to failure. 
And this is a pathetic shame, for Poco is a fine band, or was anyway. By themselves, legend and Under the Gun should make a great show, and the material of previous releases, despite the numerous personnel changes inherent in the band's rwelve-year history, are the epitome of the country-rock sound. Why, then, the poor ticket sales? 
It's the new album. Under the Gun is being pushed so hard by MCA that the publtc is pushing right back, only harder. The band has become the victim of its own success, it seems, and has fallen hard under the control of corporate moneymon~ers who feel that more exposure ts the best exposure. Unfortunately, Poco's past moderate success stemmed from its close, hard-core following. Now that the band is "sellin~ out" for big bucks, the following ts looking away. 
Under the Gun isn't a bad album. By far, it's the most rock-n-roll sound they've ever tried. Change and exploration are important, true, but thts LP is a change in the wrong direction. Lap steel expert Rusty Young has forsaken his tearful instru­ment for an electric guitar, not his forte, and he manages little more than a few decent power chords. 
Paul Cotton and Young split up the writing credits pretty evenly, but for some reason, the emphasts on the harder beat and ~utsy guitar seems out of/lace, as tf some other band create the album. Only on "Mid­night Rain," when Young takes up the steel and Cotton rediscovers the acoustic guitar, does the old mellow Poco come through. 
Mike Flicker, Heart's former pro­ducer, is responsible for the new hard sound. His production work is super­lative ·· the recording quality is flawless. The only bewildering thing about the record is that it's Poco, a sensitive and mellow American band turned rock superstars. It boggles the mind, and takes a little gettmg used to. 
Once you are used to the new Poco, however, one sees the inherent talents of the musicians come through. Let's hope that the next album revives the best of the old with an improvement of the new styles. 
See the concert tomorrow night. Those who think Poco is some mushy mellow band will be surprised. Those who expect the harder volumes of Under the Gun will be, too. As the wise man says, be obscure clearly. 
Scoop Sulltvan 

The crowd which filed into the ACC to see the Cars Thursday night was not, on the whole, aNew Wave bunch: they came to hear the numerous Cars singles which they'd heard on the radio so many times before. The Cars didn't let them down-their renditions of hits from the first two albums, mixed with songs from the new Panorama, were remarkably exact, right down to the last instrumental bridge. 
But the Cars came to South Bend with a different mission-to reesta­blish their identity as a New Wave band, an identity which is deserting them as rapidly as their fleeting popularity. Their sound on both Crmdy-0 and Panorr1ma is dominated by the layered synthesizers of Greg Hawkes; the result being two albums with a Phil Spector-ized effect and an increased distance between the band and the original ideal of the New Wave. 
Thursday night, Hawkes' consoles of keyboards and synthesizers were mixed into oblivion, allowing guitar­ists Ric Ocasek and elliot easton and bass player Ben Orr the opportunity to shoulder the brunt of the music, as they did on the band's superior, if perhaps misleading, first album, The 
Car.r. 
Additionally, drummer David Robinson's rhythms had a much 
reater sense of urgency, medium tempo songs were quickened consi­derably, and as a result the band's sound was much more rock 'n' roll, much more New Wave. 
However, it seemed that this was one of the first dates on The Cars' tour, for some sloppiness was evident on several of the svngs. More than one transition to an instrumental break was blown, and Ocasek missed vocal cues twice on "Good Times Roll" alone. In rock bands, this is often the result of rustiness in working together orfailure to practice certain songs which the band may take for granted, and this could have been the root of The Cars' problem. 
Another difficulty the band had Thursday night was with backup harmonies-they were miserable. High harmonies were absent com­pletely, and tonic backups were re­markably off-key on several tunes. It's a picky gripe, but it detracted from the quality offavorites like "You'reAll I've Got Tonight" and especially "Best Friend's Girl." 
Otherwise, The Car; went through their repertoire flawlessly, to the point of playing solos note for note as they appeared on the record -even the difficult guitar runs of "Just What I Needed" and "Best Friend's Girl" were duplicated perfectly, if somewhat ir­ritatingly. It must be a challenge to easton to play the same thing night after night, never varying and never improvising. Perhaps this is an ac· curate reflection of the band's instru­mental talents. 
Two slight alterations did appear in easton's runs~ a flattened ending to conclude "Best Friend's Girl", and a short, high arpeggio followed by a couple of bent notes near the end of "Dangerous Type." But that was the extent of it. 
Many complained of the show's length -"] ust What I Needed'' ended the set in a record time of 53 minutes, with two encores extending the show for another 20 minutes. The show's ending provided the most entertain­ment, featuring a rousing version of "Candy-0" and a sturdy rendition of their biggest hit, "Just What I Needed." In the first encore, Paflo­rama'.r "Get Through to You" was followed by "Best Friend's Girl," the outset of which features a syncopated handclap-but, as everyone knows, Domers cmmot keep a beat, and they provided a good laugh for everyone who watched them try. The song itself, originally based on Hawkes' swooping synthesizers, ignored Hawkes com­pletely and worked almost as ef­fectively without him. The second encore closed with "Dangerous Type,·· completing a satisfactory, if not out­standing, show. 
The Motels, who opened for The Cars, are a genuine New Wave band. Despite constantly ·changing per­sonnel, they played a tight set fronted by torchy lead vocalist/rhythm guitar­ist Martha Davis. Keyboardist Marty 
Jourard provided the night's only display of musical talent with several tremendous saxophone solos as well as some ferocious piano fills. The single "Danger", backed by Mike Goodroe's infectious bass line, succeeded mar­
• velously, and Tim McGovern's hot guitar jam at the conclusion provided one of the evening's highlights. The Motels played with far more intensity and desire than The Cars, and probably put on the better show. 
Tom jackman 
,r 
.....~ 
The -ObserYer=..= 
T 0 da~============T=hu=r=s=da=y=,=Se=p=t=em=b=e=r=1=8=,1=9=8=0=-p=a=g=eS= 
Campus ­
4 p.m. -tennis, nd women vs manchester col­lege, home. 
4: 30 p.m. -first meeting, joint engineering council, fitzpatrick hall, room 356. 
6, 8:30, 11 p.m.-social concerns film, "rebellion in patagonia", washington hall, free. 
7 p.m. -lecture, graciela olivarez, sr. consultant united way ofamerica, mem. lib. aud. 
7, 9, 11 p.m.-movie, monty python's "and now !"or sonwthing completely different", k of c hall, $1, free if member. 
7:30 
p.m.-german cinema, "metropolis", engr. aud., $1. · . 

7:30 
p.m.-meeting, mardi gras hall booth chair­men, architects, and ticket ··hairmen, little theater, Iafortune. 


8 p.m.-show, amazing kreskin, angela athletic facil­ity, $2. 
9 p.m.-nazz, open stage, free. 
The Blue Clue 
Of the three, she is the fairest. 
PRr.VIOUS CLUt.S-1) Won­drously fair is my lady. How beauteous is she! 
2) Her domain is in the land of the fair. Yea, her companions are quite beautiful. 
3) Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame! Wake up the echoes cheering her name! 
SMC 
to hold 
Elections 
J~lections for SMC freshman council members are Thursday. Freshmen may vote in either LeMans Hall between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. or in the dining hall rrom 4:30p.m. to 6:15p.m. 
Van Line 
to begin 
next week 
The Van Line will not bv 
running this weekend, but will be 
running on a regular basis stan ·ingnext weekend. Semester bu passes will cost $1 andwill go Ol sale Monday from 1-4:30 in tht 
Student Union ticket office. 
BLUE 
IS THRU/11 
Molarity 

.JIM, k!HEN YOU LJ£R£ /A/ ROME. You PIPN 'T HAV£ PA~IE:.TAL-5. DID IT 7VFiN JNTl:J WJLJ) ORG/~5 A/liP NONST{)P 11£PDNIST!C 
5£X'( . 
Peanuts 
THIS 15 A DRAWING I MADE OF A COW IN A 
MEADOW C~ASING MICE 

The Daily Crossword 
All Rights Reserved 
Michael Molinelli 


Scuba Gasses 
Fall Session: 
Meeting: Thurs., Sept.18 7:00pm 
.q 
LaFortune Room 2D Bring $30 deposit Scubatrip to Cozumel over Thanksgiving break Do your certification dives in the beautiful Caribbean ! ! Details at meeting 
Call 272-8607 or 272-9780 

NO. ACTUALLY SINC.£ 
~U~£ No/ H4MPER£P 
Y Tlt-t£ ORART/FICIAL 
ONJ)JTIDNS YoU CAN REALLY G£r INVOLVEP IN FRJVJ/tl AND HoN£.oT DI5CUSSJON.5 WITH 1H~ 

WADDVA MEAN,COW5 DON'T CHASE MICE? 

ACROSS  26  Of word  48  Amerlnd  15  Shoe  
1  Construe·  meanings  50  Indian  material  
tion member  31  Mt. St.'­ weight  18 Papas  
5 March date  34  Got up  51  Electrical  22 Sonny's ex  
9 "-do any·  35  Delaware  Instruments  24  Of ebb and  
thing... "  city  54  Fertilizer  flow  
13  Intricate  37  Drunkard  59  Carol  26  Taste  
network  38  Wind  60  -cat  27  Obliterate  
14 Of a knot  Indicator  (homed  28  WWII  
16 Mets'  39  Detecting  pout)  general  
stadium  device  62  Convex  29  Peer Gynt's  
17 Help from  40  French verb  moldings  mother  
on high  41  East: Ger.  63 Salvers  30 Cryptograms  


19 Unusual 42 Witches' 20 Rigorous locale 21 Toucans 43 Near 
23 Inner: 44 Portable comb. form organs 25 One of the 46 Injured Kennedys an ankle 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

64 Midday 32 Fjord 65 -Seton countrymen 66 Dill, once 33 Horse 67 Store event 36 Shoe parts 
39 Most DOWN foolhardy 1 Little 40 Yale ma·1 
devils 42 Blind part 2 Naked 43 Billiards 3 Russian sea shot 4 Dream: Fr. 45 Earhart 5 Make a 47 Banquet 
margin 49 Macaw 6 Stag's 51 Kind of 
mate pillar 7 Ferber 52 Satellite 8 -bleu! 53 Scrutinize 9 Syria's 55 Hamilton's 
neighbor bills 10 Dance of 56 Celebes OX old 57 Converti· 11 Relative plane ofatmo 58 Sharpen 12 Scottish 61 Kindof negatives bread 

-----~--~~~~------------------------­
The Observer Thursday, September 18, 1980-page 9 
Brett is back 
•
Royals capture -western division cro-wn . . . agatn 
Comptledfrom the As.rodated Press  Milwaukee, 3-2 and 6-1; and on  Royals clinching the west divi­ Reds 7, Astros 0  f' sloppy Cubs play in gaining the  
the west coast, Chicago  was at  sion title. Rickey Henderson set  victory.  Winner  John  

The Kansas Citv Royals have put the Oakland. A's and the Texas Rangers out of their misery-from a fate that has long been decided. 
And George Brett of the Royals is back on the road towards .400. 
I )ennis Leonard pitched a three-hitter and Willie Wilson drove in two runs as the Royals beat the California Angels 5-0 
Baseball Roundup 
yesterday in the first game of a twinight doubleheader and clinched their fourth American League West championship in five years. The Angels came back in the nightcap for' a 7-4 victory. Brian I >owning drove in five runs to spark the win. 
Brett, playing in his first game since Sept. 6, went 2-for-5 in the nightcap to keep his major league-leading batting average at . 396. He singled in his first two at bats. 
In other American League action yesterday, Baltimore beat Detroit 9-3 but the Orioles have to wait and see if their win will enable them to close in on division leading New York. The Yankees-Blue Jays game in New York was suspended in the top of the lOth inning after a one-hour rain delay. l~lsewhere, Cleveland defeated Boston 6-5 in 11 in­nings; Oakland heat Texas 6-4; Minnesota swept two from Seattle. 
In the National League, Los 
Angeles moved one game ahead 
of Houston in the west by 
beating San Diego 2-1 while 
Cincinnati beat the Astros 7-0. 
l~lsewhert>, St. Louis beat 
Chicago 8-5; Philadelphia closed 
to within a game and a half of 
division leading Montreal by 
beating Pittsburgh 5-4 in 11 
innings-the hxpos lost toNew 
York 5-2; and on the west coast, 
Atlanta was at San Francisco. 
Orioles 9, Tigers 3 
Dan Graham, Terry Crowley and Rich •Dauer combined to drive in seven runs as the Orioles blasted the Tigers with a three­run rally in the fifth. Reliever Sammy Stewart, 5-7, picked up the win while Ro~r Weaver, 2-2, took the loss. 
Yankees-B)ue Jays 
The BlueJays took a 5-3 lead in the top of the 1Oth after right fielder Reggie Jackson's three­base error on l<..rnie Whitt's ground single allowed two runs to score. The ball skipped throughJackson's legs all the way to the wall as pinch-runner Willie Upshaw scored and Whitt circled the bases behind him. Tl'e game will be resumed from thepointof inte'rruption before the start of tonight's regularly scheduled game. 
A's 6, Rangers 4 
The game became meaning­less in the standings with the a club record with his 82nd stolen base for the A's as Rick Langford's complete-game streak came to a halt at 22. Langford failed to finish for Oakland for the first time since May 18. 
Twins 3-6, Brewers 2-1 
Jerry Koosman scattered eight hits and Roy Smalley contribut­ed a game-winning sacrifice fly as the Twins bombed the Brewers for three runs. in the fifth inning of the first game. Rob Wilfong's first career grand slam and solo shots by Glenn Adams and Ron 
Jackson carried the Twins to a sweep of the two-game set. 
Phillies 5, Pirates 4 
Garry Maddox stole two bases and scored on a pinch-hit single by Del Unser as the Phillies snapped an 11th inning tie and closed to within a game and a half of eastern division leading Montreal. The winning run was allowed by Pirates reliever Kent Tekulve, who fell to 8-1 0 witn his fifth straight loss. Tug McGraw, 2-4, got the win. 
Mets 5, Expos 2 
Lee Mazzilli drove in four runs with a homer and a sacrifice fly for the Mets as the race between the l~xpos and the Phillies tightened up in the east. Mazzilli's homer was his 16th of the season. Dyar Miller, 1-1, picked up the v'ictory in relief: 
Ray Knight knocked in five runs with his third grand slam homer of the season for the Reds as the Astros fell out of a tie for first place in the NL west with the loss. Mario Soto, 1 0-6, allowed five hits in picking up the win for the Reds. 
Ilodgers 2, Padres 1 
Rookie Jack Perconte's first major league hit knocked in Rudy Law with the decisive run in the sixth inning as the I >odgers climbed one game ahead of the Astros in the NL west. Don Sutton, 12-4, picked up his fourth straight victory. 
Cardinals 8, Cubs 5 
Leon Durham and Tito Landrum each collected two RBI and the Cards capitalized on Vu<;kovich, 12-9, worked 7 and 2-3 innings before getting .relief help from Jim Kaat. 
...!Jengals 
Conti1111r ,:'from pt~gr' 11 
Both orgal1lzatH,ns have huilt their teams through the draft, but the Steelers claim to be tlw only completely home-grown team in the National Football League. 
Forty-two of the Steelers' 4'i players were drafted b~' the tea111. The other tlut:e playtrs were signed directly out of college a~, free agents. 
Tht: Bengals kept seven of thi.... yeai·'s draft choices and signed five free agents. Six other play­ers have only on<: year exper· ience. 

~ l'iebar~:S 

HAIR ARTISTRIES O 
129DIXIEWAYS . Styling for men and (Roseland) women who like to Across from looktheirBest 277-0734 Randallslnn 
···•····•·•··•·•••··•···•·•····••••··•·••····•··•··•·······••······• 
St. Mary's Freshman Council Election 
Vote Thursday September 18 
LeMans lobby 10a.m. to 4p.m. Cafeteria LeMans side 4:30-6: 15 p.m. 
················•········································•·········· 
r-----------;--------------------------------,
St. Mary's SAPS: NOStudent : 
Any COLLEGE OF SCIENCE STUDENT I 
nion present Thursday, Sept. 18' INTERESTED IN REPRESENTING 
The Amazing
THE Coll•g• of· Science on the ' Academic Council ehould submit 
Kreskin
Name and btlef Statement of Purpose before Sept.26th to: 
8pm in Angela Athletic Facility , 
Stud•nt council 
-... 
Tickets available in SMC ticket l
c/o Th• Offlc• of Dean of Science Rm 229 Hl•uwland Science 
&.-offices; dining halls :
L...............~~..~...._,.,_......,...,.,....-1,_ ... ,...~....,, .&.--------------~,_----------------------------'­
The Observer Thursday, September 18, 1980-page10 

Tennis 
The Internal! Temis Touma­I'TEI'lls; rren's. v.orren's. m rri>ed dxbles at! single elim ination. Ead1 rrefch IMII cmsist of the best of three sets v.tlh USLTA rules gowming play. The pairing for these tournaTenls IMII ~ each Thur.;day in the <JJsenler. It is the responsibili1yof the pa1id­pcnts to cootoct his or her oppa erts m set ~..p a rratch in each ~-(Fhone nurrbers at! listed in pcren­thesis.) The results of these 
MEN'S SINGLES 
OPEN 
IVIa1fred 0820) vs. Hutchinson (8319) &uemrer (8251) vs. AlltCiea'l (6279) Wolfe (3830) vs. Breen (6937) SchcbJw.;ki (1875) \IS.~ (1767) Solarski (1764) \IS. Baker" (1796) ~(2254) 'o'S. Clerrenls (232-8196) CMfy (1398) vs. T.Walker 0027) l3oiA.er" (1501) vs. White (3498) ~ (234.3389) vs. Williarrs (6756) O'Toole (1026) vs. Hoeffer (8273) OJetter (1802) \IS. 1\t\Jihem (1750) Herrrm (1789) 115. Good (8317) 
Schenlab (8712) vs. Stribich 0921) Fbinter' (1401) \IS. M:x:rey (1438) IMllq> (4557) bye Wilkas (1154) vs. Si~ 0340) Crovle (3128) vs. Wilharrs 0749) Sha'p (3378) vs. Sara-ant (8269) Yem: (1188) vs. M:lultain (3368) Moo'v'lilla1 (1593) vs. AJisis (1188) Underrm (1972) vs. IBil.d (1949)l<enl>f (8595) 115. 1\t\JIIiga'l (3339) Rlgali (1654) vs. Hcnnuksela (1937) Sirronl (3087) vs. Miles (1629) Walrott (7495) vs. Raza (3005) Schachner (8594) 115. WiniJerly (1796) Green (1854) vs. Hildler (8745)8uton (1736) vs. ~I (1489) Colbert (3197) I¥! N<rlgi (1474) vs. F\Jgliese (3542) Terrivfeew (1849) bye 
• Travis 0276) vs. GeniD'I (1654) 
Qaduate-Fecully Tennis 
R!ralta (7505) vs. Aroey (277-3660)Gezobieri {234-1823) 115. Koegel (234­1633) 
rratches rrust be ttmed in by the IMmer in per.;on to the inlertlall office before noon on the folloiMng Wec:tlesday. Failm! to report the results to the lnterhall Offir.2 IMII r:rea'1 disqualifiation of both pa1id­pcnts ~ CDI'Tpleled the pro­per inlertlall ii1SlJI'"il'lce ~­Afler the first I'OU1CI of the toumaTe1t, cny pa1idpcnt V\h) has nat rret the ii1SlJI'"il'lce requirerrent IMII be ct-opped from oorrpetition. 
MBI'SNOVICE 
SINGU:S M G:nh!r (8725) vs. Bemm:l (6842) Hildler (8745) vs. Ncae (8689) Kerrpf (8595) \IS. Byrne (8716) ~ (1504) vs. Cerise (6268) Sdlnngs (1418) bye . 
Ancrev.s (8679) vs. Macrllejo (1521) lbsell (1138) byeHealy (7997) vs. Cozzie (1771) /1/aeoo (325.4) 115. Nash (8317) Seg;Jto (3444) 115. Scey (33n) Sdluir-e (1767) vs. Gleason (666.4) ~ (1863) vs. Wide (1685) Yu (1863) vs. Staudt (1840) Foley (1860) \IS. Ma1:h (1612) Beniga'l (8763) bye Jares (841 0) bye 
Worren's Singles 1\t\Jihollm 0348> vs. GJrOOn (6945) Kucaba (277-3609) vs. Klug 0935) Sdlui'Tfdler (234-0845) vs. Tobias (6446) ~nson (3352) vs. Naoof 0962) Callc11cn (2145) vs. Hill (.4581) Sdlrrid (3352) vs. Keltias (8149) Rakochy (6874) vs. Zelrrer (6846) Hirsh (6761) bye lllaJS (6737) \IS. Evens (8669) Torrkl\Mtz (8527) vs. O'Connor (.4634) 
MIXED OOUBlES 
Bu1on1Aitanrer (1736) vs. Hatfielcfl/a . Bolano (1212) N'atin1tKomrreier (6842) vs. l.a'lg1Niro­stek' (8631) SilllJSOilV~ (3340) vs. Solarski1!MxJre 0764) New1J€ella 0803) vs. Berryl/~ (3248) llltcflllalus1ttay {3685) vs. f=cntano14\:Jra. hal {288-3882) O'Toole1tKennedy 0000) vs. BaltleVa N'a1<s (3347) Gorskiltiiiha1di (8253) vs. 13rtlci1EirraWa Klug (232-0921 l 8chenlab1Arierring (8712) bye 
First prize is a 'pair of season tickets for the best nickname. The competition lasts until Sept. 26. 
Send·all applications to: 
The Observer Hockey Mascot · Box a Notre Dame, Indiana 
Or drop your application off at the Observer offices, fourth floor of LaFortune. 
:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Have I got a n~me for you 
Penguin's name: 
Your name: 
Address 
Phonb 
Baseball Standings 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
FAST 
lll'a1treal Alila:telphia Rttstxwg/1 St. Louis !lew York Chicago  W 81 79 76 66 62 56  L 65 66 70 80 84 89  R:t. .555 .545 .521 .452 .425 .386  GB -· 1112 5 15 19 24112  
WEST  
W  L  R:t.  GB  
lDs AngelesHouston Cindnnati  83 82 79  62 63 67  .572 .566 .541  -­1 4112  
·Atlanta  76  68  .528  61!2  
.Sen Frcncisoo 68  76  .472  14V2  
Sen Diego  64  82  .441  191!2  

YESTERDAYs ganes St. Louis 8, Chicago 5 Alila:telphia 5, Attsbtrgh 4 (11) !lew York 5~ lll'a1treal 2 Cindnnati 7, Houslon 2 Cindnnati 7, Houslon 0 Los Angeles 2, Sen Diego 1 Atlanta at Sen Frcncisoo, (n) 
lODAYS GAMES Houston at Ondnnati Atlanta at Sen FrirldSCD Sen Diego at Los Angeles, (n) Qlly garres scheduled 
Transactions 
NBA BOSlON CELTICS--Signed Kevin M:+ Hale, center-forwnl, to a three-}e" oontra:t. 
DET'R)IT PISTONS--Waived R>y Harril­ton end Bobby WilD'~, gucrcls, end I:Xllaine Harris, forv.a'tl. PHOENIX SUNS--IE!eased leroy StCI'l'p­ley. guard. 
NR. 
CLEVElAND BRJWNS--Signed AutryBeaTon, defensiw back. Raced L.aw­rence Johnson, defensiw bed<, on the injured list. PITTSBURGH STEELERS--Signed Jl/lir­vin COOb, defensiw back. Raced John Stallwrih, IMde recei~oe", on the in· jured reserve list. SAN DIEGO CHARGERS--Waived D:r1 Woods, running back. Signed Billy Brooks, IMde recei~oe". 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
EAST 
.WI L I R:t. !lew York 92 52 .639 Baltirrore 87 58 .600 4112 8oslon 76 66 .535 15 Mii'M!Ukee 77 69 .528 15112 c1~1m 74 10 .514 18 O:!troit 74 71 .510 Toronto 61 83 .424 
WEST 
w L rd.. GB X-Kcnsas Ci1y 90 56 .618 --Oaklm 74 73 .503 16112 Te>raS 70 75 .483 19112 Minnesota 65 80 .447 24 
Chicago 61 82 .427 27112 California 59 85 .409 30 Seattle 52 92 .361 36112 
x-already ..wn division 
Baseball roundup 
I 
onp. 9 
Interhall 
GIRlS INTERHAU. F001BALL YEST'ERDI'y Off-Carpus 7, Le.Ms 0 Bcdin 7, L')O'IS 6 
YESTERDAYS GAMES Kcnsas Crty 6-4, California 0-7 Minnesota 3-6, Mii'M!Ukee 2-1 Baltirrore 9, D:!troit 3 CIMm 6, 8oslon 5 (11) Oaklm 6, Te>raS 4 Toronto 5, 1\W.t York 3, gare suspended loth iming, to be mrrpleled tonigrt Chicago ct Seattle, (n) 
TONIGHT'S GAMES Minnesota ct Mii'M!Ukee, 2 CIMm it 8oslon O:!troit ct Baltirrore 
Toronto it !lew Yori<, 2, 1st gcrre CDI'Tllletion of )eilerday' s suspended 
~met Texas California ct Kcnsas Oty Chicago at Seattle 
SPOrts Bri""'..... "'·-~ Water polo 
TheNotre Dame water polo club will face Western Michigan tomorrow at the Rockne Memorial in its first match ever. The match begins at 6 p.m. and admission is free. 
Pep rallY set 
The Michigan pep rally will take place tomorrow at? p.m. at Stepan Center. Featured speakers for the event are Pete I )emmerle, Mike Courey, John Hankerd and coach George Kelly. 
Name that penguin 
The Notre Dame athletic department, along with the Observer, has found a mascot for this season's hockey team. But we need a name and someone to fill the bilt 
Name that penguin ... be that penguin. 

I want to fill the bill 
Name: 
Address: ____________________________ Phone: 
--------~---------------------------­
:· Winner shall be notified by phOne. . ::11 ~~~] You will be notified by phone of a tryout. :~~~ 
~-~ ~ 
~ ~ ·~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::~:::~:~:~:~:~:~:::~:~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::~:: 
\1:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:::::::;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::;:;:;:::::::::;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;::::<:·:::..·<:::::::::·::::::::::::~111 
-----~ --------~------­
The Observer Thursday, September 18, 1980-page 11 

Belles host Ball State 
Irish sUJeep Taylor 
by Maureen Heraty -Sports Wrtter · 
Saint Mary's tennis squad, under the direction of first year coach Ginger Oakman will host a tough team from Ball State tomorrow after a relatively quiet week on the courts. 
The Belles finished fourth in the Fourth Annual Notre Dame­Saint Mary's Tournament this past weekend, competing with­out number-one singles player, Patsy Coash. Despite the 
absence of Coash, who was competing at the Lipton Tea Mixed Doubles Tournament in Florida, Saint Mary's managed seven points in the tournament they were co-champions of last year with Notre Dame. 
"If she ~Patsy) was there, that would have moved everyone down," explained Oakman. 
Thus, each singles player was competing one level above her usual pos.ition. Janet Dvonch, Coash's rcphtecmcnt, won her consolation match, :--6, 6-2 and 6-1 over Lynn Shepley ofTaylor University. I >vonch lost to the eventual tournament champion, Nancy Csipkay of Indiana State, 
in the first round and then de­
feated Laura Mockus of 
hlmhurst College and Shepley to 
win the consolation bracket. 
Maureen "Blonde Mo" O'Brien, playing second singles, also captured the consulation championship, defeating Tina Abromitis of hlmhurst in the finals 6-2, 6-1. 
Also capturing the consulation bracket was Carmel Maenza, who won in the third-singles catagory 6-1, 6-3 over Kim Schaub of the University of Dayton. 
"Carmel undoubtedly showed the most fortitude," declared Oakman. "She was sick all week and her practice suffered. She was even sick during the match, but she pulled through." 
The second doubles team of Ann Huber and Mary Thorgill finished second on the day, fal­ling to Mary Legeay and Pam Fischette of Notre Dame, 6-4,6­2 in the finals. 
"With a little practice, they could be tough," said Oakman of the freshman pair. 
After hosting Ball State tomor­row the Irish journey across the street to take challenge Irish Monday on Courtney Courts. 
Stnash 
That'.r U'hat the NTJ and St. Mary:r tumt:r teams hope to do to the oppot~etzts th/r uvekefld 
dropped more than four games." 
The Irish have been very successful of late, specifically, winning their own Fourth Annual Notre Dame-St. Mary's Tournament last weekend. Notre Dame tallied 26 points in the team standing's column with Indiana State pulling out second at 17. , 
Petro's charges captured three of four singles titles, taking second in the other. Carol Shukis led the way at number-two singles, over-powering Angie Acton-Keen oflndiana State 6-4, 6-3.Junior Peggy Walsh nabbed the championship at third­-singles, defeating Carmie 

carrying a difficult major, and still have the time and energy for football. Burger admits that, at times, it has bfen difficult to combine the two. 
"It especially was tough the last two years," Burger said. "I ren lly had to devote myself to­tally to both football and my studies, and that consumed a lot of my time. 
"Sometimes, after practice and meetings, it's after nine o'clock before you can sit down <tnd get to work at night. The last twr' years, it always seemed like I wa~ working hard just to catch up. But I just had to establish my priorities. In fact, I seem to work harder on my studies during football season because I know that my time is limited. 
"I don't let my studies affect mv social life, though," he con­tinued. "I feel there's an awful lot 
.. . I'd be missing out on alot ifljust studiedand playedfoqtba/1. 
y• 1U can learn just by being in­volved around here, and I'd be rnissing out on a lot if I just ;,tudied and played football." 
At the moment, Burger plans to go on to medical school after graduation. He has applied to several schools, includin~ Stan­ford, Washington U. (St.Louis), and various Ivy League institu­tions. 
Burger, a sure candidate for Academic All-American (an honor bestowed upon former Notre Dame players Ken McAfee a:1d Joe Restic, among others), naturally has his opinions about the various edu­cation scandals that have been sweeping the NCAA. 
"It's really a shame," he said, "because it is the student-athlete that is hurt the most. These guys don't realize that very few of them can make it into pro ball. And when they don't make it, they're realy ·out of it; they're 
Notices 
ST LOUIS CLUB FOOD STAND· This Sat. In ~ont ol Sorln. All St Louisons ore asked to slop by lor an hour or two and help out beginning at 10om. Questions? Coli Kevin 
(3479) 
Lost&Found 
LOST ACheck payable ro !he uol NO Lost 1n !he area ol Hayes-Healy bldg Check was s1gned by my la!her. Earl Sm~h Please call Greg at 6764. Reward 
LOST· Class Ring Gold w~h green stone. One side ol ring hos !he state ol Florida on~ wlfh o dolphin over n. trso 1980 H.S. ond !he nome Is A ClawiOld Mosley lnlftols ore DMG... Coll 1620 and osk 101 David Gaddie REWARD 
For Rent 
FOR RENT Ugly DUCkling Rent-A-Cor Prlcec ~om $7.95 a day ond seven cents o mile Phone 255-2323 fOl rese1Vat1ans. 
fof Renl Ugly DuCkling Renl-a-Cor Fti-nOO!I­Mondav·nOO!I 29.95 w/ 150 Flee Miles Phone 255-2323 for reservations 
"2 room opt $50.00 month Near. 2331329" 
TO All INTERESTED ND/SMC PARlYING PARTIES. RE FREE GATHERING OF PEOPLE FOR THE PURPOSE OF EXCHANGING OPINIONS 
Spacious 2 bdrm Apt. Furnished MUST RENT Coli Anytime 232-0904 
For Sale 
9 3/4% mongage money available fm 2706 
E. Edison, 3-bedroom ranch, basement, near N.D., shopping. schools. buJIInes. All offers considered. Including land contract Coli John Korbetis, 291 -061 0. Century 21, W & K. 233-3161 
1975 Ply. Grand Fury, automatic, new tires. excellent condition. Exlro deluxe features. $1500. Coli to see and test drive 6106. 
Wanted 
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CIJ\SS RINGS. Men's $35 · $65 ond up. FreQ House Calls. 255-2402 
DESPERATELY NEED MICHIGAN TIXI CAll BOB 1606 
STUD STABLE wants lull corral tor Mich weekend Need 2-9 GAtlx. Coli Tom or J.D. at 1248 
Tickets 
NEEDED: 2 or 3 GA tickets lor Mich game. Willing to pay very high price!! Coli (SMC) 5431 up to Sept. 19. SSSS$$$ 
LepreChaun will pay apat o· gold for Mich. Tlx coli Jlm-1!563 
HELP! SENIOR NEfOS TO ENTERTAIN PARENTS AND FRIENDS FOR ONE lJ\ST WEEKEND UNDER THE GOLDEN DOME! NEED PS MANY GA TICKETS TO THE MICHIGAN GAME PS POSSIBLE. CALL DIANE AT 6732. 
Desparotetv need 2 GA's for MICH call Mary 4·1·4494 
Have HOTEL RESERVATION Will tmde for MICH. tics. Coli Joe 1224 
Desperately need MICH. tiCkets. Call Joe 1224 
INSTANT CPSH PAID FOR CLASS RINGS Men's $35 -$65 ond up. Free house coils. 255-2402. 
1need Mieh St. tiCkets COli Chris -1629 
JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND 
Chairman applications now being accepted Get applications lrom at !he Student Activities Ottice ol ClOSS Officers: MIKE 1077 MEGAN 2126 SUZI 6737 KEITH B196 DEADLINE SEPTEMBER 21 
NEED 2 Michigan Nx. Coli Jeff at 1539 
... 
Need many G. A 01 student tickets tor Mich. ond Miami games. Coli Tom. Dan, or Joe at 4540. 
Need MICHIGAN GA tickets Pay MUCH $Coli 263·8609 
DESPER/\TEL Y NEED 2 STUDENT MICH TIX. BIG BUCKS!! CALL RllA-1344 
by Beth Huffman Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's women's tennis team swept a match with Taylor University on Courtney Courts yesterday afternoon, 9-0. The win boots the Sharon Petro coached squad's dual meet record to 3-0 going into today's4 
p.m. home match with Manchester College. 
"We took all the matches in two sets," said Petro after the contest with Taylor. "Nobody Masson oflndiana State 1-6, 6-1 and 6-1 in the finals. Sheila Cronin also pulled out a first place for the Irish, downing the Hoosiers' Kelly Gasaway 6-3,6-3 at fourth singles. Cindy Schuster, competing as Notre Dame's number-one singles gun took second. Schuster fell to rival Indiana State star Nancy Csipkay 6-0, 6-1. 
"We have more depth than ever," reports Petro. "It's very beneficial this year considering the new rule that requires an 
entire team to qualify for state and then na.tionals, rather than just an individual. 
"Our goal this year is for the whole team to go to nationals. To achieve this we are playing each match and every practice with intensity." 
Following today's match with Manchester the Irish will host Northern Illinois at 3:.30 p.m. tomorrow and then atough team from Ball State at 8:30 a.m. Saturday Next Monday the Irish will continue their rivalry with neighboring Saint Mary's, hosting the Belles on Courtney (::ourts. 
/ Burger Bengalsface 
· ~eelers 
suddenly thrust into society without a solid educatonal back­ground. 
"That's the main reason I chose Notre Dame: even if I hadn't gotten the chance to play football, I knew I would get a good education." 
Bob Burger's scholar-athlete status is a rare occurrence these days. One gets the 'feeling, though, that if the NCAA had more Bob Burgers, they wouldn't be up to their necks in grade-fixing scandals. And, may­be then, Southern Cal would be eligible for this year's Rose Bowl. 
CINCINNATI (AP)-There are lots of new faces again this year among the Cincinnati Bengals, but the world champion Pittsburgh Steelers will have a very familiar look when they play the winless Bengals Sunday. 
"When people talk and write about our defense getting old, that doesn't bother me one bit," 
1 said Steeler Coach Chuck Noll. "We make some pe~sonnel changes every year. People don't seem to notice so much because they are usually nonstarters who we hope to bring along." 
Pittsburgh has six rookies this year, Cincinnati has a dozen. None will start for the Steelers, but the Bengals will have one each on offense and defen~P 
Continued 011 page 9 
Oassifieds 
NEEDED 2 ARMY GA TIX ANO 2 MIAMI G.A. TIX. DENISE AT 116162 
many POCO TIX and HOMECOMING TIX available Coli Peg or Kathy 116869 
Will pay big bucks for MiChigan tickets. Relatives coming ~om Honolulu! Coil Tom at 234-5762 
DESPERATE! Need Mich fix. student or GA SSSS. Coli Tim 7323. 
Wilt trade all or part BMlch St. GA tlx for Mich.• Miami. AlobOma, 01 usc. Call Tim after 7p.m. at 312/364-5619. 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS, go or student. Call 268-2935 Very urgent request. 
NEED MICHIGAN TIX, STUDENT OR GA WILL PAY BIG$$$. CALL MICHAEL AT 233·5933. 
2 NO Nums NO Bound or Bust For Minced "M'. Wolverine Money No Object Call Bob 3244 
1 need 1 stu tic for MiCh. coli Pele 1663 
oldtimers will node our 4 adjacenl sludenl foolball tickets In middle of student section (sec. 31, row 42) for your 4 adjacent season tickets n yours oro obove row 20 and anywhere in !he sro,"um other !han the student sections. 
2 GA MICH TIX 262-1734 AFTER 6 PM 
I NEED 2 GA MICHIGAN TICKETS FOR MOM AND DAD I CAN PAY UP TO $25 PER TICKR PLEASE PHONE TIM AT 269-0165 
OLDTIMERS WILL TRADE OUR 4 ADJACENT STUDENT FOOTBAll SEASON TICKETS IN STUDENT SECTION (SEC. 31, ROW 42) FOR YOUR 4 ADJACENT FOOTBALL SEASON TICKETS ANYWHERE ELSE (OUT OF STUDENT SECTIONS) ABOVE ROW 20. CALL 272­6857 
Have tour GAs to lhe Michigan game. B.lst otters. Call Bob after 9 p.m 1506 
Personals 
ANY ONE INTERESTED IN PLAYING TABLE TENNIS (PING PONG) CALL DAVE 233-3658 
Sf. Mary's COLLEGE TO CAREER DAYS Sept.21-24 
THE AMAZING KRESKIN RETURNS on Thur. Sept 1 B at 6 pm in Angelo Athletic Focility Don't miss himl!!!! 
Dearest Mike: Much to your dismay. your 3 guardians have failed to protect TOPO, thus he Is once again ahostage. Yoo got lucky !he firsttlme...you're dealing wlfh an expert now' MAX FACTOR You will pay dearly!!! 
And so castles mode of sand men into !he sea eventually .... in hallucinogenic celebration ot !he renfh annivernorv ot His death Just osk !he Axis. 
Quality Backrubs. Call Brion 234-0969 
To: All interested PARlYJNG parties Re Free gathenng ot people lor !he purpose of exchanging opinions or PARTAKING OF THEIR WHIMS. (Tmnslation· PARTY. 9:00, FRIDAY NIGHT, MORRISSEY HAll BPSEMENT.) Fm Social Secretary tor Public Relations, Section 2-C, Momssey.l11111 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY BOB MANGINO Of 601 ST LOUIS FAME!!! 
BRIDGR·S BARGAINS. 4 7 HAPPY HOUR DAILY. 25·CfNT BEER 9:30-10:30 NITHY 
HI FRANK LAGROTTA... HAVE YOU WORN YOUR MOUTH T·SHIRT Yff??? 
BLUE IS THRU! SORIN PEP RAll YTONIGHT AT 8 ON SORIN PORCH 
60. KENNY. JOE & HEELS.. ARE YOU GOING TO TRY FOR THREE WEEKS IN AROWJ THI£ WEEK THERE Will BE 4:30 FOOTBAll AGAIN ... K£NNY CAN DANCE All NIGHT AND MISS BREAKFPST WHitE HEElS PLAYS THE MUSIC AND BO GOES TO AMOVIE JOE Will USE HIS MEXICAN WHIPPS AJUMPROPE FOR ENTERTAINMENT 
f 
I 
I 
' I 
I I 
' 
Thursday, September 18, 1980-page 12
~ ~ 
~ 
But not eclipsed , ~ 
Zavagnin stars under shadow 
I 
by Craig C~val career mi?ht surp~ise some that's what you have to have to Sports Wrrter observers, 1t shouldn t come as be a really strong defensive much ofa shock to veteran Irish team." 
At times, Mark Zavagnin must followers. 
Chances are, Zavagnin would feel like he's living in a solar Notre Dame'!> lit·ebackers have been looking across the lineeclipse. traditionally hav€ spearheaded of scrimmage at the Irish had heAfter all, despite breaking into the Irish defense, and under the not decided to enroll at Notrethe starting lineup last fall as a tutelage of veteran coach Dame at the end of a fabulousfreshman, Notre Dame's sopho­George Kelly, Notre Dame line­career at Chicago's St. Rita High
more linebacker isn't exactly the 
backers have reaped more than School. His other final choices most recognized player on the their share of tackles-and All­included three 1980 IrishIrish squad. America notices. 
opponents-Purdue, Michigan
This is largely due to the "Coach Kelly is one of the best and Alabama -along with Penn 
presence of All-American Bob 
in the country," Zavagnin says State.
Crable at middle linebacker. But matter-of-factly. "You know a if you listen closely, Zavagnin guy who's been around that long 
"Alabama doesn't recruit very many people from Illinois, so Iisn't complaining. must be doing something right." 
was kind of interested by that," 
"Bob's a heck ofa player-he Zavagnin also credits his older could be one of the best line­Zavagnin recalls. "But I finalyteammates with speeding his decided that I didn't want to gobackers ever · here," says adjustment to college ball. Zavagnin. "Playing next to him "Last year, guys like Mike 
to school that far away from can only help me. Against home. Notre Dame was one of
Whittington and Bobby Leopold
Purdue, for instance, they didn't · really helped me," he remem­the last places I visited, butI liked want any part of him early in the 
its reputation. And the educa­bers. "They didn't look at me as a tion, it's unreal. There are kidsgame, and they were running my freshman, just as a football player 
way. That meant that I got a trying to help the tearr_. who dream about coming here." chance to make a lot of plays." Zavagnin seems almost over­
"Our defense is set up for the These plays were enough, in whelmed by his success at Notre
· linebackers to make most of the 
fact, to merit consideration tackles," Zavagnin explains. Dame in a little over a year. "I along with teammate Scott began last year playing on the
"Our defensive line is veryZettek as the Associated Press specialty teams, and to me, that's
strong, and they nuetralize the Defensive Player ofthe Week for blockers, which leaves the line­a big contribution, especially for his efforts against_ the B.oiler­backers free to make the a freshman," he says. "But the makers. tackles." coaches had a lotofpatience with "He's a great leader, too," says In 1979, though, the line­me, and unfortunately, Mike Zavagnin of Crable. "He's not backers seemed to be making Whittington went down with a just concerned with his position; even more than their share of lot of nagging injuries. I was in a he'll tell you if you're doing stops, due in a large part to an position to play, and I was ready · to play."
something wrong. And he ex­injury-ravaged defensive line. pects you to let him know if he's But that's just a bad memory this And Mark Zavagnin is still 
doing something wrong." 
year. 
ready to play, as anyone foolish 
While Zavagnin's stellar per­"Our balance is much better enough to run away from Bob formance at this early stage in his this year," Zavagnin insists, "and Crable will attest. 
Atop his class · Burger mixes books andfootball 
And it seems that last season steady progress to the travelling
hv Clm:r Necdle.r 
quite a few Southern Cal football squad his sophomore year, to 
. Sport.r Wr!'ter 
players, including Heisman win­Tim Huffman's backup at right ner Charles White, somehow guard as a junior. Finally, as a
It was once discovered that, 
learned the art of speech com­senior, Burger has laid claim to
while at the University of 
unication without attending any the starting left guard position
Nebraska, former Heisman Tro­
of the lectures or doing any made vacant by the graduation of
phy winner]ohnny Rodgers took 
assignments. Ted Horansky and John Leon.
two-and-one-half years of driver
.Hark Zm•agnin UJtlS co11stdered wrth Scott Zettek jrJr AP defen.rive p/tlyer The list goes on and on. When "As a walk-on, I knew I wasn't 
education classes.
of the ll'eek ho11or.r fo//ou;t'ng the Ptirdue game. does it end, vou ask? going to be the first to be looked
Then there is the recent storv 
Well, meet Bob Burger, a at right away," Burger related.
of former University of Cali­
chemical engineering major, "So I had to be persistent and
fornia star running back Chuck 
with a pre-professional option, work hard to improve so the
Muncie, now with the National
Royals clinch AL West; Brett is back 
who is near the top of his class in coaches would notice me.
Football League's New Orleans 
the Notre Dame College of t.ventually, it paid off." 
Saints, who reportedly never
See baseball roundup on p. 9 
l:ngineering. In his spare time,
came close to earning his di­
which many engineering majors ploma. 
do not find too much of, Burger moonlights as the starting left guard on the Fighting Irish
Varsity status football team. 
Bob Burger's story of both athletic and academic excellence is indeed unique in these days of
Volleyball faces Tri-State 
fixing grade transcripts for col­lege athletes. But when one gets f.,. kelly Sullt't,an Vans lager will direct a crew ofl 2, attacker, while freshman to know Burger, one can easily 
only four of whom were players Maureen Morin plays the ad­see that he has worked very hard 
Wom,11's Sf>orts Edt'tor 
for the volleyball club last year. ditional set position. Two other to get where he is today. The squad has been working freshmen, Carol Homme and Burger came to Notre Dame 
Notre lhme'swomen'svolley­diligently at perfecting fund­Jane Healey, are likely to get a on a partial academic scholar­ball squad is, appropriately amentals, and while the group is starting nod as well. Homme is a ship, not on an athletic grant. enough, excited about the up­relatively inexperienced with strong hitter and Healey another "I received offers to attend 
coming season. The Irish open each other's style of play, back row player. some Ivy League schools," said their 1980 campaign carrying a Vanslager feels they possess a Burger, a Cincinnati native. "But varsity status for the first time, strong sense of team unity that The Irish face a schedul( they don't give out athletic 
consisting of opponents from all
joining four other women's will help them gel quickly. scholarships. I was also contacted 
three divisions, giving them
sports with that distinction. "Our team does not function by several Ohio schools, but it The persistence in Bob 
adequate preparation for
"We're all very excited about on individual talent, but as six was sort of a dream-come-true Burger, The Athlete, is also pre­
November's state district play. 
talents pulled together when I got the opportunity to sent in Bob Burger, The Student.
being at the varsity level," -everyone on the court has a attend Notre Dame." His 3.77 grade point averageremarked first vear head coach 
"We've worked hard since the
job," she stated. In his freshman year, Burger, ranks among the best in his class. 
Sandy Vanslager. "The girls 
beginning of school to be in
realize they're setting history by The most probable starters on . who played his high school As much time as football con­
prime shape for the season," says 
the court tomorrow include ' football at Cincinnati's LaSalle sumes of Burger's life, withbeing a part of Notre Dame's 
Vanslager. "Our major goal is to
returning senior Debbie Romo, a High, tried out for the Irish workouts, weightlifting, teamfirst varsity volleyball squad." 
perform to our maximum
back row defensive specialist, squad as a walk-on. That year, he meetings, film sessions, etc., it is· 
ability. I want us to be successful
The women begin play with a and junior Kathy Dages, who was relegated mainly to prep­amazing how one man can 
in our first year as a varsity
trip to Angola tomorrow, where plays setter. Sophomore bve squad duties. From that point perfom so well in the cl<~;ss~oom
sport," she added. 
they will battle Tri-State College. Allmaras should see action as an on, the 6-2, 240-pounder made Continued on page 11 






