
.' .WCHAfuture-Page 12 

VOL. XIV, NO. 111 
ND releases sports proposal to co01ply -with Title IX 
by Michael Lewis Exe;.cutive News Editor 
Notre Dame released irs long-awaited proposal to comply with Title IX Saturday, calling for a major women's basketball program, cutbacks in the present hockey program, and m.ajor efforts to "improve athletic revenues" by charging students for football tickets, raising ticket prices, and creating an athletic endowment. 
Hockey is the only current sports program that will lose scholarships under the proposal. The plan will be presented to the Board ofTrustees for approval, probably when the full Board meets on campus beginning May 2. 
In a major break with tradition, Notre Dame students will be charged for football tickets. Students will be able to buy tickets at a 50 percent discount. The plan calls for an increase in football ticket price to $12 per game, so students can expect pay $6 per game next fall. 
The initial women's ~rant-in-aid will be concentrated in women's basketball, whiCh. is expected to begin Division I competition in three to four years. The University's women's team currently competes in Division III. 
Athletic Director Edward Krause said the University will ''go all out" to field a top-flight women's team, but said that other women's sports will receive grants-in-aid "right away." 
Krause did nor know exactly how many scholarships will be offered to women next year. Richard "Digger" Phelps, coach of the ND men's team, will assume overall responsibility for the women's program. 
Krause added that the University will begin interviews for a new coach of the women's team, and that current coach Sharon Petro will be one of those considered. 
The University will reduce the cost of hockey by decreasing hockey scholarships from 20 to 18 next season. Further cuts were implied by the statement, but Krause said he does not know what further measures will be taken. 
Hockey ticket prices will also increase, but Krause was unable to specify the amount. Students now pay $1 per game with a season ttcket, and $1.50 per game at the door. Other hockey spectators pay $3 per game. 
In addition, Notre Dame will try to reduce the travel costs of participating in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association. The 
[continued on page 3) 

Shah leaves Panama for Egypt 
PANAMA CilY,Panama (AP) -The deposed shah of Iran left Panama for Egypt yesterday aboard a chartered American jet, ending a 100-day residence in this tropical coun­try where he faced extradition proceedings, U.S. and Panamanian officials reported. 
White House security advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski said in Washington that the self-exiled monarch left Panama in order to receive medical attention. Physicians have said the shah suffers from lymphatic cancer, which may have spread to his spleen. 
Iran's revolutionary regime, seeking the return of the shah on char~es of mass murder and corrupuon, has said that his departure from Panama would delay the release of about 50 American hostages held by militants in Tehran. A legal representative for Iran said Saturday he planned to meet a Monday deadline to file evidence with Panamanian authorities to support the case. 
A Panamanian government spokesman said the shah, "having received a perso~al invitation from Egypuan President Anwar Sadat, chose to move to Cairo." Brzezinski also said the shah had accepted 
Sadat's longstanding invitation 
of asylum. 
However, spokesmen for 
Sadat issued another denial 
yesterday that the Shah was en 
route to Egypt. 
A Panamanian air force 
officer who asked not to be 
identified said White House 
advisor Hamilton Jordan also 
left Panama for Washington 
apoard a U.S. government 
Jet. Jordan arrived here Friday, apparently to arrange the shah's departure. 
Tht · Panamanian officer said the shah was aboard a DC-8 jet chartered from Evergreen International Airlines of Ore_gon. A Panamanian air traffic controller said the com­pany had filed a flight plan which called for a refueling stop in the Azores Islands in the Atlantic Ocean at 8 p.m. EST: 
The officer said the shah, accompanied by his wife Farah, eight aides, their pet dogs, and 1000 pounds of luggage, departed from Tocumen Airport here at about 
1:40 p.m. EST. 
At midday, Shah Moham­mad Reza Pahlavi, 60, and his wife flew on a small private plane from their residence on Panama's Comadora Island, accompanied by former MONDAY, MARCH 24, 1980 

Fine musicians and smooth production highlighted this weekend's Collegiate jazz Festival at Stepan Center. [photo by PhzJ/ip] ohnson J 
Carter's budget 

Russo expects negative results 
by Kelli Flint Senior StaffReporter 
President Carter's budget cuts will probably have a negative effect on two of the five federally funded financial aid programs at Notre Dame, according 'to Joserh Russo, Qirector of Financia Aid. 

Panamanian ambassador to rhe United States Gabriel Lewis. Visibly sad, the former shah thanked Panama for its hos­pitality. 
Panamanian television re­ported that Jordan and Tor­rijos, a former Panamanian president, met with the shah Saturday on Comadora Island, where the former monarch has lived since Dec. 15 after receiv­ing medical treatment in the United States. 
The three student aid programs that will probably not be affected by the budget situation are the Supplement­ary Educatinal Opportunity Grant (program), the College Work-Study program, and the National Direct Student Loan program (NDSL). "Carter's budget cuts will not affect the 
tentative appropriations · made for these programs for the 1980-81 term," Russo said. ''These programs are campus­based, and will probably remain the same as this year.'' The two programs facing pos­sible problems are the Basic Educational Opportunity Grant (BEOG) program and the Guar­anteed Student Loan program. ''These have become the first and second most expensive federal aid programs in recent years," Russo said. "There is concern over the growing cost increase ofthese programs.''·._ 
The maximum BEOG allot­ment was $1800 this year. ' 'An increase to $1900 was being considered,'' Russo said. 
"Due to cutbacks, the extra $100 will probably nor be d ,,
grante . . ''There was senous concern over the Guaranteed Student Loan program before the bud­get cut," Russo said. "Be­cause of the budget cut, the senate is ~ooking more closely 
at the amounts of the program and its cost to the govern· ment.'' 
According to Russo, one aspect of the Guaranteed Loan program that the senate may consider is the :;:~ideline for eligibility. "Famity income gmdelines are currently not a factor for a student's eltgibiliry as a result of the passage of the Middle Income Students Assistance Act in 1978,'' Russo said. ''Any student is current­ly able to take a loan and receive federal interest subsid­ies while in school. The current budget situation could mean a closer look at the lack of income ceilings in the pro­gram.'' 
Russo added that there may very possibly be an increase in interest rates on loans. Pre­sently interest on the NDSL is 
[continued on page 3] 

DirectorofSecurity Terry wishes to handle recent complaint by NDstudent personally 
by Margie Brassil SMC News Editor 
Director of Security, Glenn Terry has decided to personally handle the complaint brought against three ND security guards by a student last Tuesday. The complaint was filed by Sophomore Gordon Geraci against Ray Garcia, Tom Costa, and Ken Wilbur, charging them with verbal abuse and harassment. 
The incident between Geraci and the guards occurred last Sunday night when Geraci tried to get his ID in return for a 15 minute pass. According to Geraci, he went twice to the Main Gate for his ID. The second time, he made a wise­crack to the guards. Garcia reportedlly then flared up at Geraci. 
''He threw down his badge and said he was resigning. He then began cussing at me and came foreward as if to hit me and had to be restrained by Costa,'' claimed Geraci. Geraci alledges that Costa then began to indirectly threaten him_ 

Geraci S_{>oke with Terry when he filed hts complaim on Tues. Terry had then said he would try and get a hearing set up with Geraci, the guards, and a University representative. Ac­cording to Terry, he had re­ferred the matter to Dean Roemer, who then referred it back to him. 
''It is better for me to handle it . than in the department,'' satd Terry. "I don't have the necessary mechanism to get a 
[continued on page 4] 

New-s in brief 
Grain embargo costs taxpayers eight billion dollars 
NASHVILLE, Ind. (AP) -The U.S. embargo on gr~in sales to Russia is costing American taxpayrrs $8 bdh?n and farmers another $1 btllion in lost gra!n sales, the pre~tdent of the world's largest farm organization says. ?peakmg to a group of Indiana Farm Bureau leaders, Davtd L. Browne, prestd('nt of rhe American Farm Bureau, noted that .some of the lo~s can be recouped through sal<7s to Mext.co, the People's Republic of Chma and some Afncan countnes. But .;;o far, no sales have been completed, he said. 
Economist Arthur Okun dies ofheart attack at 51 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Arthur M. Okun, one of the nation's most highly respected economists and consultant to presidents, died Sunday, a spokesman at the Brookings Institution reported. Okun was 51. James Viana, a spokesman for the non-profit research institution where Okun was -~ senior fellow tn economics, said Okun suffered a massive heart attack at his Washington home. A liberal and a Democrat, Okun was the key economic adviser to President 
Johnson during a period of rapid expansion of government programs to aid the nation's disadvantaged. 


Japanese -American senator proposes internment 

LOS ANGELES (AP) -Sen. S. I. Hayakawa says it's "too had" if fellow Jai?anese-Americans don't like his plan for interning Iranian cttizens ''the way ~e did with the Jap~nese in \\'orld War II." In an exchange vvtth Rep. Norman Mmeta and Rep. Robert Matsui, the senator told his fellow Japanese-Americans, ''I want to make it perfectly clear -th~s is different from the .Japanese situation.'' Hayakawa sa~d hts proposal would define U.S. embassies as U.S. terntory, making citizens of any nation invading an embassy subject to arrest, detainment or deportation. 

Weather 
Periods of rain with a high in the upper 40s. Rain ending at night with overnight lows in the mid 30s. Considerable doudiness and cool Tuesday. High in the low 40s. 


CatnP-_u_s------t 
12:10 pm TEACHING/LEARNING SEMINAR "computer assisted instruction," prof. william davidson, nd, sponsored by educational media. 242 O'SHAG. 
12:15 pm DEVELOPMENT WORKSHOP "transnationals, international oligopoly & uneven development: the literature," prof. richard newfarmer, nd. sponsored by the economics dept. LIBRARY LOUNGE. 
4: 1) pm LECTURE "inflation, basic necessities & the distribution of economic power," gar alperovitz, nat'l renter for economic alternatives, wash., d.c. sponsored by economic~ depr. 122 HAYES HEALY. 
6:45 pm ROSARY daily at the GROTTO. 
7:00 pm l\IOVIE "mutiny on the bounty," sponsor~d .by the nd hi~torical society & the history dept. $1 admtsston 

1.1 BH.ARY AUD. 
7:00 prn VISITING ARTIST LECTURE arturo sandoval, fiber ani~t. u. of kentucky. sponsored by smc art dept. 232 !\10REAU HALL 
~ :00 pm RECITAL organ & harpsichord recital by philip lichscher. GRACE UNITED METHODIST CHURCH 3012 S. T\\YCKE0:HAM. 
-. '0 pm FILM "muriel," sponsored by dept of sp/dr. \X'.ASHINGTON HALL. 
8:00pm SMOKER ncaa smoker sponsored by the knights of columbus. $1 admission, members free. K OF C HALL. 
10:00 pm MEETING students united for responsible energy. discussing plans for earth day. BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE. 
11-12 pm RADIO wsnd "talk it up," call in radio talk show. 
topic: future of the campus life commission. two guest 
speakers with host pat toomey. Call in at 6400 or 7425, 
WSND AM 64. 

"Monday, M.arch 24, 1980 -page 2­
Israeli Cabinet allows Jews to settle in Arab cityfor first •
trme 

JERUSALEM (AP) -In a decision likely to complicate already stalled palestinian au­tonomy negotiations, the Israe­li Cabinet voted for the first time to let Jews settle in an occupied Arab city. 
The Cabinet approved by an 8-6 vote, with three absten­tions, a proposal to establish two schools in which Jewish students would live full-time in the Arab city of Hebron on the West Bank of theJordan River. 
The last Jewish residents of · Hebron left the city after Arab rioting in 1929. 
Opponents of the settlement plan said they would appeal the vote to the Foreign Affairs and Security Committee in the Israeli Parltament, and Prime Minister Menachem Begin a­greed to delay action until the committee meers. The Parlia­ment begins a one-month re­cess Thursday. 
Israel has built more than 50 settlements on the occupied West Bank but has not allowed Jews to settle in Arab cities. However, Begin has come un­der pressure from right-wing Israelis to carry out the Hebron move. 
The settlement issue is re­garded as one of the major stumbling blocks to a success­ful conclusion, targeted for May 26, of Palestinian autono­my negotiations. There has been little progress in the talks to determme the nature and extent of the autonomy, and President Carter has sum­moned Begin and Egyptian President Anwar Sadat to Washington for separate meet­
~The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Teri Michielutti Asst. Night Editor: Mary Kasper, Deirdre Murphy Copy Editor: Lynne Daley News Editor: Margie Brassil Editorial Layout: Ann Gales Features Layout: Sal ''Signals Granata Sports Layout: John Smith Typists: Paula "Presents" Shea. BiJl Swift, Mary Beth Budd, Marilyn Broderick EMT: Doctor "G" Proofreader: Rick Freedman ND Day Editor: Bob Bernoskie SMC Day Editor: Peggy Schneeman Photographer: Phil Johnson Guest Appearances: Ann Monaghan, Danny Tarullo, Rosie Mills, Jay Saur, Ed "Bugs" Moran. Mind Warp. 
] ohn ''I feel the end 
coming'' McGrath, Zigf!._y, 
Rosemary, A.Jo. 
Paperofthe Week goes to john Smith & Company. 
We miss youJohn 
The Oblemr !USPS 511 121) Is publishtcl Monday through Fridly II· cep1 during eum alld VICitill plrillb. The Observer is publilllld bJ the students of Nltrl o... IMI Slillt Mary's Cllllgt. Slllllcriptiaa lftiJ lilt purdllud fir sa per year IS1t 111r ...,..,I frtm The Observer.111.0. bll 
a. Nttrt ba1111. tlldiHI 41&51. s.­cllu postaoe paid, NtCrt Dltnl, t• diana ·46551. 
Tne Observer it I ....... If 1111 Allldlttd "-· Aft ......., ..... 
lifldllrl ,_•. 

ings mext month. 
Begin said yesterday. he would respond in the next few days to a letter he had receive d from Sadat and would call a special Cabinet session before leaving for his meeting with Carter. 
Israei news reports said the 

letter from Sadat to Begin 
placed responsibility for the 
outcome of the autonomy talks 
entirely on Israel. The Egyp­
tians have placed greater em­
phasis on progress being made 
by the date set in the Camp 
David peace accords. 
Israel, Egypt and the United States began negotiations on Palestinian autonomy last May with a one-year deadline for establishing an autonomous A­rab administration on the West Bank and Gaza Strip where there are 1.2 million Palestini­an Arabs. The territories were occupied by Israel in the Mid­east War of 1967. 
The United States and Egypt have been pressing for an end to Jewish settlements on the West Bank. Washington has criticized the settlements as an obstacle to peace. 
The Israeli cabinet declared in February that Jews have the ri~ht to settle anywhere in the Btblical land of Israel, which includes the West Band and Hebron, a city of 50,000 Arabs 20 miles south of Jerusalem that is the burial site of the Patriarch Abraham and is con­sidered holy by both Moslems and Jews. 
However, the vote on the Hebron settlements was post­poned more than a month 


11inigbtaof aTnlu~hu.a 
sponsors: 


§N.C.A.A. SmokerS 
8:()() p.u..Lt--.... 



because of its controversial nature. 

Cabinet spokesman John Salem said after yesterday's severn-hour meeting: ''The political implication of the de­cision was the main issue discussed." He also said the Cabinet wanted to make it "very clear and very direct" that Jews would not be barred from Hebron or anywhere else. 
Samaritan Center to hold 
•


semtnar 
The Couple Communication Seminar wtll be held on four consecutive Mondays, March 31, April 7, 14, and 21 from 7 
p.m. to 10 p.m. The fee for the course is $100 per couple which includes the books used. 
Couple communication is an educational program designed to enrich communication be­tween partners (married, living together, friends, colleagues, etc.). It focuses on the processes of flexible and effec­tive interpersonal communica­tion. The program centers on· teaching specific communiction skills and frameworks for deal­ing with day to day issues. 
For more information call the Samaritan Center (277-0274 ) or the leaders (Becky or Jerry) at 288-9001. 


The Observer Monday, March 24, 1980 -page 3 
Available institutional funds offset recent increase inSMC tuition 
ty Katie Gzlligan 

Due to the recent rise in the tuition feces at Saint Mary's for the 80-81 school year, many students have expressed con­cern in regards to meeting this increased financial demand. However, according to Director of Financial Aid, Kathleen Jeffnies, a substantial rise in available institutional funds should permit a broad range of distribution. 
These funds, which include grants, scholarships and en­dowments, are awarded on the basis of individual need. Although 53 percent of the 
. Saint Mary's student body is on some type of financial aid, the rise in tuition will only affect the institutional scholar­ship funds. As Jeffries points out, there will be more funds, and not necessarily more scholarships. In this way, either more lower-figure awards can be given, or per­haps, fewer, but more expen­sive ones, can be distributed. During this school year, $330,095 was available, yet due to the new tuition increase, there will be approximately $336,310 available to the stu­dents. Currently, 385 students are using these funds, and next 
year's expected enrollment does not show a marked in­crease in those wanting finan­cial assistance. 

Like all types of loans, money from Saint Mary's institutional funds is distributed on the basis of need. "Need" is defined by the family's income, assets, current debts, medical or unusual expenses, the num-· ber of dependents, and the number of dependents enrolled at the post-secondary level. The family is expected to pay a calculated sum, which will then be accompanied by the aid. Although this calculation is federally mandated, there is no clear cut-off point when deter­mining . the eligibility of a family. 
Another financial aid division at Saint Mary;s, the Work/ Study Program, which received a $68,000 increase in funds over the '78-'79 school year, is hoping for equal assistance. 
Last year, the program re­ceived only $46,260 as opposed to this year's originally slated $75,000 which rose to $114,725. Next year's figures are undeterminable at this time, but Jeffries promises a ''comparable student work pro­gram.'' 
The funds received from the 
• • • Title IX 

[continued from page 1] 
te.am will compete in the WCHA next season, but the University wtll "explore other options, including membership in a geographically more compact league,'' according to the statement. 
Student fees for football tickets, a first for Notre Dame, is part of the attempt to increase athletic revenues. With the ticket price increase and the student fee, next season will probably bring record gate receipts for ND football. University President Fr. Theordore Hesburgh said the time had· come to charge students for football tickets. ''I think we were the only school in the world that gave free football rickets to its students," he said. "Now we can'r." 
Krause said he believes the student fee will not affect student attendance. ''Students pay for hockey and basketball, why not football," he said. 
The proposal also calls for the establishment of an athletic endowment to help meet rhe costs of the University's varsity, club and intramural sports, but neither the statement nor Krause could offer specifics on this endowment. 
Hockey coach Charles "Lefty" Smith called the endowment "a great move." "It has to be done in this day and age," he said . 
. . . Budget 

fcontinued from page 1) 
three percent, and interest on a Guaranteed loan is seven per­cent. "In the Higher Educa­tion Amendments pending leg­islation, an increase from three to seven percent is proposed for the NDSL,'' Russo said. ''The Guaranteed Student Loan faces a possible increase from seven to nine percent. These increases from seven to nine percent. These increases may affect the 1981-82 term.'' 
"It is not impossible that the budget cutbacks will create problems for students this fall, but they will most probably affect students this time next year," Russo said. "Lender participation in the Guaranteed Student Loan program is a problem. At present, the government pays lenders up to 16 percent on student loans. This is done to increase the availability of loans for stu­dents. If controls and limits are put down, the availability of loans will be reduced. Fewer lenders will be willing to put up with the red tape and possible additional costs.'' 
' 'The Guaranteed Student Loan program is the most commonly used loan program at Notre Dame," Russo said. ''The costs of the program are spiraling.'' 
''Many students attending private schools have a limited choice between public and private institutions,'' Russo said. "The effects of Carter's budget cut could make it more difficult for these students to attend private institutions.'' 
Russo added that because of the elections, the significant changes in federal aid will probably not take place until the 1981-82 school year. "Public pressure in an election year from middle families who benefit from these programs will greatly offset a major change for the 1980-81 (school) year.'' 

government are used t0 pay for 
80 percent of tbe swdents' 
wages, while Saint Mary's 
pays the remaining 20 percent. 
If, however, a student is employed by the college but not because of financial need, then Saint Mary's must pay the full salary. 
Therefore, because there are 
a frozen number of available 
jobs, it is financially advanta­
geous for the college to employ 
only those involved in the 
Work/Study Program. The 
money that Saint Mary's would 
have to use to pay those not in 
the program can then be 
reallocated for other programs, 
including the institutional 
scholarship program. 
Despite the tuttion hike, and 
the rate of inflation, Jeffries 
stated that the number of those 
who would seek financial aid 
for the '80-'81 school year 
would remain "fairly con­
stant'', with the possibility of 
only a "slight increase." 


·,· 


The Observer Monday, March 24, 1980 ~page 4 
Sr. Maureen Feedler lectures on Catholic viewpoint ofERA 

by Mary Ellen Woods 

Sr. Maureen Feedler, repre­senting Catholics for ERA, addressed a small crowd in the Library Auditorium Lounge last night. In her lecture, Feedler presented a Catholic perspec­tive on the Equal Rights Amendment. 
Drawing from ''a distinctive Catholic, religious and scriptor­al tradition," Sr. Feedler ex­amined the text of the ERA. She pointed out that the pro­posed amendment consisted of only 52 words. 
The amendment is prohibi­tive, she emphasized. It does not force any action, nor is there any connection with abor­

tion  or  the  use  of  lavatory  
facilities.  
''Equality for  men  and  wo­ 

men is an integral part of the Judeo-Christian tradition,'' 
Last night in the Library Auditon'um, Sr. Maureen Feedler presented a Catholic perspective on the ERA. [photo by P. johnson] 
APPLICATIONS NOW AVAILABLEFOR: 
STUDENT GOVT. CABINET POSITIONS 
Pick up applications from S.G. Secretary, 2nd floor ofLa Fortune 
Applications due by thurs. march 27th 

noted Feedler. Vatican II, for­mal Church doctrine, states that any form of discrimination is contrary to God's intent. Sr. Feedler sees ERA as an imple­mentation of the teachings of Vatican II. She also pointed to the gospel as a norm for equal rights, citing Jesus' treatment of the women of his day. 
Sr. Feedler emphatically told 

· the audience of the situation today for the women of Amer­ica. "Women earn $.59 for every $1 that men earn,'' explained Sr. Feedler, quoting a U.S. Government report. 
This situation is not getting better. ''In fact the difference is broadening," she said. In the last decade, women earned $.63 for every $1 earned by men. 
This discriminatory situation can only be corrected by ERA, according to Feedler. The ERA will guarantee equal rights for both men and women. 
Sr. Feedler proposed to end her often dramatic presentation with a discussion of the myths and distortions surrounding the ERA. In fact, her comments were concerned solely with the connection of abortion and the proposed amendment. 

''The ERA is guilty by asso­ciation in regards to the ques­tion of its relation to abortion,'' demonstrated Sr. Feedler. 
ERA has no legal connection with abortion, according to Feedler. It proports to deal with the protection of those rights that are of concern to both men and women. As Sr. Feedler pointed out, men cannot be­come pregnant. Pregnancy be­ing a necessary precondition to the desire for an abortion, the question of equal rights and abortion can and will not be tied to ERA, she said. 
The floor was then opened to questions from the audience. Sr. Feedler was asked to com­ment on the need for ERA in light of the Fourteenth Amend­ment and the Civil Rights Amendments. She noted that as presently interpreted, "these are not grounds for protection 
against sex discrimination.''' 
An interesting point was 
raised regarding the benefits of 
ERA to men. According to Sr. 
Feedler, the rights to be grant­
ed alimony and child custody, 
as well as the responsibility of 
women to aid in military duty 
would be of service to men. 
The discussion frequently de­volved to heated debate as Sr. ·Feedler was asked to defend ERA against ar~uments ques­tioning its effectivity, relevancy and ability to protect the rights of women in particular situa­tions. Sr. Feedler replied con­fidently, ifemotionally, that she knew how the amendment would be implemented, point­ing to the ridiculousness of the fear that men and women would be forced to share the same rest room facilities. 

Sr. Feedler requested sup­port of the Notre Dame· com­munity in the up-coming na­tional, Pro-ERA march on Chicago on May 10. The march on Chtcago is vital, according to Sr. Feedler, in the drive to have Illinois ratify ERA before the 1982 deadline. 
...Security 

EARN OVER $730 A MONTH DURING YOUR SENIOR YEAR. 
Interested in math, physics or engineering? Then you could earn as much as $730 a month, for the rest of your senior year, in the Navy's NUPOC-Collegiate Program (NUPOC) is short for Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate). 
H you qualify, then upon graduation you'll get 16 weeks of Officer Candidate School, and an additional year of advanced technical educational. Education that would cost thousands in civilian life but in the Navy we pay you. And you'll receive a $3,000 cash bonus at the end of your training year. 
It isn't easy .. But those who make it fmd themselves in one of the most elite engineering training programs anywhere. With unequalled hands-on responsibility 
and a $24,000 salary in four years.  
For more details, simply see your Navy Programs Representative, when he is on Or call (collect) 312-657-2171.  ificer .mpus  

[continued from page 1] 
hearing together.'' Terry ad­
ded that there was no set procedure for handling this type of incident. 
According to Terry, the guards' version of the incident differed from Geraci's. The guards claimed it was Geraci who was belligerent wh~n he tried to get his ID returned. 
Terry said the matter will be handled confidentially. ''Any 
Arts Festival enters finalplanningstages 
Maribeth Moran Senior StaffReporter 

The Senior Arts Festival has gone into the final planning stages, according ro Kim Gumz, this year's chairman. 
''This year is the testing ground for it (the festival). Last year it was an innovation. The Festival should continue on, and to do this it should prove its validity," Gumz said. 
Senior  Arts  will  run  from  
Sunday,  April  12  through  
Saturday,  April  19  and  will  

feature seniors· creations in 
various fields of the fine and 
performing arts. 
Works ofsenior artists will be. featured in the Isis Gallery all week long, along with musical performances at the Nazz. This year for the first time, the Festival will include some musical performances at Senior Bar. 
Washington Hall will be utilized for dramatic perfor­mances and readings as well as the showing of some films produced by the members of the class. 
Gumz emphasized that parti­cipation in the Festival is not limited to majors in the fine and performing arts desciplines. 
''It can bring an entire class together. It is also probably the last time we will do such a large scale activity together,'' she remarked. 
problems with personell is a confidential matter. What I decide could possibly lead to friction on campus, which would not be good," he said. 
Geraci could file a complaint with Roemer against Terry's actions, according to Terry. He added, however, that his decision concerning the guards would be final. 
Geraci said he would talk with Terry about the matter before going to Roemer. 

Anyone interested in parti­cipating in the Festival should contact one of the following people; Architecture, Rick Burroughs at 7695; Dramatic Performances or Original Films -Liz Bathon at 277-3288; Poetry and Prose -Dave Perry at 8836; Dance-Chris LeBlanc at 1327; Music Performances -Laura Sisson at 1674, and Art Works­Bruce Richardson at 1354 or 
·Beth Scweitzer at 6785. 
Observer 
ahllfOVeS
".YY 

promotions 
The Observer production de­partment has approved two promotions in addition to those announced last week. 
Danny Tarullo, a junior busi­ness major from Waltham, Mass. , will assume the position of Night Editor on Tuesday nights, effective immediately. 
The postion of Senior Night Editor has been reinstituted and will be filled by Margaret Kruse, a sophomore from Edina, Minn. Kruse's appoint­ment will take effect after spring break. 
1 t • • ' \, ~. ' '· I 0 \ ( l I \ t l I 1 " t • l S I 



The Observer . Monday, March 24, 1980 -page 5 

Coppola announces SU Commissioners 

Student Union a~nounces '!ew commissioners: Fir:st Row -Anne Villeneuve, Paul Rob.erge, Da_le Robmson, Marilyn Ma_yer; 2nd Ro_w-Mtke Method, Tom Drovzllard, Betsy Sendan, Bna~ Leahy; 3rd Row -Bnan Pech, Bzii!.Awler, Bob Gerth, Rich Coppola· and Absent-Kevm Conry [photo by P. johnson] ' 

Kennedy campaigns to overcome underdog image while Reagan relaxes 
Rich Coppola, Student Union Director for next year. has announced the Student Union Commissioners for 1980-81. The commissioners were chosen after the completion of an application and iuterview process conducted last week. 
Selected as the Associate Director for next year 1s Dale Robinson, a junior psychology major from New Orleans, La. Robinson is currently the Breen-Phillips hall president. 
Marilyn Mayer, a sophomore government major from Cincin­nati, OH. has been chosen as the Academic Commissioner. Mayer has worked on the 
Sophomore Literary Festival this year. 
Sophomore Kevin Conry has been harned as Executive Co­ordinator. Conry, a mechanical engineer from Urbandale, IA., is presently serving as the Student Umon Calendar Office Courdina tor. 
The current Movie Commis­sioner, Anne Villeneuve, is returning to serve in the same post next year. Villeneuve is a JUnior from Los Angeles, C:.A., majoring in bio-chemistry. 
Mike Method, a sophomore pre-med from Elkhart, IN., is the new Services Commis­sioner. Method is presently a member of the Services Com­mission where he has served as Free University Co-ordinator. 
Appointed as Cultural Arts Commissioner is sophomore Bill Lawler. Lawler, a lacrosse team member, is a government and English major from Bethes­da, MA. Lawler has appeared in several ND-SMC theatre productions in the past two years. 
Junior Brian Leahy, a busi­ness and music major from Tiffin, Ohio, is the new Con­certs Commissioner. Leahy has professional promoting exper­Ience through his work "'ith the St. John Hollow Corporation. 
The Social Commissioner for next vear is Tom Drouillard. Drouillard, a sophomore mar­keti11g major from Dowagiac, MI, has been a member of the Social Commission for th<. lasr two years. 
Paul Roberge, a junior aero­space engineer from Bellport, NY, is the new Ticket Office Manager. Roberge currently works in the Ticket Office. 
Calender Office Co-ordinator for next year is Betsy Sheridan. A sophomore finance major from Tallahassee, FL, Sheridan has workEd in the Calendar Office for two years. 
Junior Brian Pech has been appointed Campus Press Pro­duction Manager. Pech, a finance major from Hamburg, NY, is presently working ac Campus Press. 
Student Union Comptroller Bob Gerth announced the se­lection of commission comptrol­lers for next year. They are Pat Harvey, Social; Mart Barrett, Academics; Diane DeBoer, Campus Press; Bob Westrick, Concerts; Vicki Miller, Movies; ] ohn Moore, Cultural Arcs; ] ean Menoni, Services; and Mike Sexton, Ticket Office. 
Anyone who is interested in working for the Student Union next year can leave their name at the SU offices on second floor LaFor~u~e or by contacting the commrsstoners. 
(AP)-Sen. Edward M. Ken­nedy worked yesterday to over­come his underdog tmage in New York's delegate-rich pres­idential primary this week, while a relaxed, confident Ron­ald Reagan all but rejected his Republican rivals as possible vice presidential running mates. 
And in an incident that could cause him trouble in the agri­cultural heartland, Reagan told a farm audience in Wichita, Kan., he was not familiar with full parity -a federaly subsidiz­
Dorm-s to be secured over break 
The residence halls will be secured during the forth-com­ing Spring Semester break. Access can be obtained to these halls through one door only. All other doors will be chain locked. If a student in staying during the break, he or she should contact the Rector and obtain a key. 
The North Dining Hall will close after the noon meal on Thursday, March 27. Those students remaining for the dinner meal will have their meal cards honored at the South Dining Hall. The South Dining Hall will close after the dinner meal on Thursday, March 27. Both Dining Halls will resume the regular meal schedule beginning with the dinner meal on Monday, April 7. 
The public cafeteria will be open for meals on a cash basis during the break. Their sche­dule is as follows: 
Friday, March 29-7:20-6:30 p.m. 
Saturday, March 29 -7:30 a.m. · 6:30p.m. Sunday, March 30-8:ooa.m. ­6:30p.m. 
Monday, March 31 thru Thursday, April 3 -7:30a.m. ­6:00p.m. 
Good Friday, April · 7:30 a.m.-1:00 p.m. and 4:00p.m. -6:00p.m. 
Saturday, April 5-7:30a.m. -6:30p.m. -Easter Sunday, Apri16 -8:00 a.m. -2:00p.m. Monday, April 7 -Regular Hours 
ed price level for farm products that is a major political issue in the Middle West. 
"I'm going to stay in the race," Kennedy on a national television interview before he toured a poor black neighbor­hood in New York City and met with Orthodox Jews. 
The Massachusetts senator, who so far has won only two primary and caucus contests compared with President Car­ter's 18 election triumphs, again attacked Carter's hand­, ling of economic, energy and 
foreign issues. 
Kennedy said he would not withdraw from the race even if Democratic Party leaders asked him to. 
Meanwhile, a Gallup poll done for Newsweek magazine said Carter and Reagan were running about neck and neck in vot'-1s' eyes if they are the major party nominees. Forty­five percent of those question­-:d leaned toward Carter and 44 percent toward Reagan in the poll, which has a margin of error of 4 percent either way. 
Forty-eight percent, inci­dentally, replied that they thought the primaries thus far were not a good way to choose the best-qualified candidates, while 40 percent approved of the system. 
At stake in the New York primary tomorrow are 282 dele­gates to the Democratic National Convention in New York next August. On the same day, primary voters in Connecticut will select 54 con­vention dele~ates. 
A public opmion poll conduct­ed by the Social Science Re­search Center at the University of Connecticut, released Satur­day, said that 45 percent of Democratic votets and 42 per­
cent of Republicans  were  un­ 
decided  which  way  they  will  
vote tomorrow.  

Senior Formal .to take 
reservations 
Reservations for the senior formal will be taken tomorrow in the LaFortune lobby from 10 
a.m. to 5 p.m. Student.s must have already purchased a ticket in order to secure a table. 

The poll said Democrats fav­ored Carter over Kennedy by 34 percent to 18 percent. Among Republicans who had made up their minds, the survey showed, Reagan had about 24 [ercent, Bush 17 percent an Anderson 12 per­cent. 
Reagan meanwhile made his first campaign visit to Kansas, where he appears to be an easy front-runner in the state's first presidential primary April 1 , "We're well organized here," Reagan said in Wichita. The former California gover­nor was asked at a news conference whether either of 
[continued on page 8] 
ROCCOS I 

men's and women's hairstyling at comfortable prices 531 N. 1\1ichigan 233-4957 
r--iMiiCifYRECOiDS----~1 
1 ·. notthetn Indiana's largestrecotd & tape ; 1,selection andconceit ticket headquatt•rs 1 I I 
I Cfl 00 any tegulat album 01 tape 1 
I. t1 • purchase with this '-oupon. I
I Q f f I
limit one pet petaon upl,.., April15, 1980 
I •20,000albums& tGpes In stock ...·... II • Huge cut-out and special icnpott selection 1· of)*n lOto 10.1 
7

I •ND-SmCchecksacceptedupto"l20.00 do.ya 1 1 ovetpurch<lse ~mount open lOto 10 2n-42.42 I lcono7''II ~ ~1 Nntt.. • 'tmiht& no'"' of cnmous • n•xtto At's aueetmntketl 
~~-~w-~--~--------~---• 




An Important Reminder from 



campus View Apartments //: . '~ 

//. Don't forget '" 
the March 31 Deadline for fall security deposits. 
Your deposit must be paid in full ($300.00on 2 Bdrm Units) 
bythat date. Failure to meet this deadline will result in 
re-assignment ofyour apt.to a group on the waiting list. 
... ButwewantyouI 
---------~---------------------------------------------------------------------~ 


NOTBAP. I 
!?&ClJMMENf)
n: Pf?{)VI/JU) YaJIAIIN CWC'£ IN A IVH!te. 

~~======~==========~ 
IT'5 C£1{TA/NLY8C&N 
mi.., NO.
A UvaY CAMFWGN. 
6UT He'S IN

EVfKf(JVI3 AROf.IN{) EV~N 
ZONXERr 
m~MIPPJ£
HCI?E IS Ac:rt/ALLY 
OF SPRING
PAYIN6~10 

I 
7RAIN/N6.
7HI3 I.JCAI5 AGAIN. 
I 



A daring and thinking Republican 
WASHINGTON--As a dark horse turned into a bright horse, the galloping John An­derson of Illinois has had a change of fortunes equal to his change of views. 
In his early years in Con­gress, 1962 and 1963, his conservative voting record earned him two zeros from the Americans for Democratic Ac­tion, the watchers of the left. Then he went wild and soared to 8 and 11. But in 1966, as though the 8 and 11 were numbers on a timetable and he was holding a through ticket to reckless liberalism, he jumped off the train and went back again to zero (His latest rating was 55). 
After Massachusetts and Vermont of 1980, the zeros Anderson gets now are from the right. Headlines call him a liberal, and he presents himself as a maverick moderate. It is a new public perception, though Anderson himself saw it coming as far back as 1970 when he told an interviewer that except for the "real rightwingers" back in his congressional district, he was supported by all factions of Republicans and Democrats. The right, he said, ''thinks that because I've moderated some of the positions I held origi­nally, I'm sort of Benedtct Arnold.'' 
Although the hanging parties of the right won't be stringing up Anderson now, the question for everyone else, particularly liberals, is whether Anderson is refreshing merely because he is ~ daring and thinking Repub­ltcan among the rote and the dull--the Reagans, Bushes and other sleep inducers--or is he worth noticing because, as Wil­liam Haslitt said of Jeremy Bentham, "He meditates the coming age.'' 
If it's the first, why bother? It was only dumb luck that An~erson found himself pitted agamst Reagan, Bush, Crane, Connally, Baker, and Dole. How could he not seem pro­found? He may be in for still more luck, with Gerald Ford thinking of giving up his life­long goal on the fairways of breaking 90, and becommg a candidate. In the context of the 
primaries, Anderson is a horse 
Colman McCarthy 

among mules. But that doesn't make him a thoroughbred. 
A large debt, for sure, is :>wed him for the lively politics he has offered so far. It's been good theater. He speaks his own mind. He doesn't care much for safe applause lines. He has said a few things that will end up in the quotation books. Best of all, he has made the right kind of enemies: those Republicans whose thought, as George Orwell de­scribed a mind set of his day, "is a kind of playing with fire by people who dorft even know that fire is hot. '' 
Conceding all that, and even being grateful for it, the cheer­ing for Anderson may be pre­mature. No one yet knows exactly how free he is of his old positions or of the thinking processes that led to those positions. He told the gun lobby in New Hampshire where to go last month, but in 1971, when he came up against the supersonic transport zealots, he took safe refuge in the ·jobs argument: he supported SST appropriations because aircraft employees--expecially those in his own distnct--shouldn't be asked to retrain themselves for other work. 
It is heartening that John Anderson has been moving more and more to the left. But when lifted out of the context of backward Republicanism and placed into the context of the political renewal that the tense times call for, he brings to mind the remark ofW.H. Auden: "It is a sad fact ofour culture that a poet can earn much more money writing or talking about his art thaa he can by practicing it." With John Anderson, we are excited by the way he talks about politics, but we know little of how he practices it. 
He is known, for example, as a religious man. He took his duties seriously as a trustee of the Rockford, IL, Evangelical Free Church. He told his House colleagues in a floor debale a few years ago that stopping ''the tide of secu­lansm tn our land is a most desirable objective." But this is standard fare. Jimmy Caner is religious, yer his pohtics are not noticeably altered by the teachings of Christianity. 
The change that has come to John Anderson is one of con­texts. He has shown that a market exists for a thinking Republican graced with a de­veloping mind. But the country needs more than that. It doesn't need a Republican or Democrat. It needs a politician who is above the conventions of parry politics. The country's current politics are assuredly not conventional. 
1980, The Washington Post 
Company 

administration of either insri£Urion. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reponed as accurately and as objectively a~ possible. Editorials Editor-in-chtef. ........Rosemary Mills Sports Editor... ···-...........Mark Perry represenr the opmton of a majority of Managing Editor..........Dian~ Wilson Features Editor.....Kathleen Connelly
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 · ~he Editorial Board. Commenraries, Editonaf Editor .. ............Ann Gales Photo Editor......... ..... Doug Christian opinions and leners are the views of Semor Copy Editor.........M. Onufrak 
-The Observer_ 
The Observer is an ind~~ndent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor......Mike Lewis Business Manager........Steve Odland oewspa~r published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor....................Mark Rust Production Manager.... John .McGrath ofthe University of Notre Dame du Ia< an~ . the free expression of varying News Editor.................Mike Shields Advertising Manager.... M. Holsinger and Saint Mary's Coll~g~. It d~s not optmons on campus, through leuers, is SMC News Edrtor..... ... Margi~ Brassll Controfler... ...............Kevin Manion necessarily reflect th~ policies of the encouraged. · Circufa#on ~nager......Greg Hedges 
-

L---------------------------------------------~----------­
---------------------~----~~----------------~
.. 

Features 
Monday, March 24, 1980 -page 7 
Fr. Bill Toohey 
Lipocalyps~ ~hen? 

Francis Ford Coppola is right. It is 
"Apocalypse Now." What was true 
for the people of ) esus' day is 
applicable today. They were given a 
frightening projection of the terrify­
ing experience of the Last Days. But 
the apocalyptic strategy was to draw 
from such future projections lessons 
and pointed exhortations for the 
present moment. People were to 
realize that, in a real sense, the 
future was already happening. 
The same is true for us. We don't have to go past our morning head­lines to discover the current applica­tion of the catastrophic biblical vision. We see, to note but one of numerous examples, Amnesty Inter­national's annual report, which doc­uments that executions, arbitrary arrests and imprisonment and staged disappearances contribute to what is presently a global pattern of human rights abuse. 
With such data, plus the additional cataclysmic vision of world starvation and impending nuclear war, one senses the fulfillment of what Will­iam Butler Yeats anticipated in his famous poem, ''The Second Com­ing": · 
Things fall apart; the center cannot hold Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world, The blood-dimmed tide is loosed, and everywhere The ceremony of innocence zs drowned; " 
The best lack ali conviction, while the worst Are full ofpassionate intensity. 
But there is another purpose of apocalyptic writing beyond admoni­tion, warning and ''final notifica­tion." In the strictest sense, these writers had as their purpose the intention to comfort a people distres­sed and anxious about the future by showing that it is God who is in final control of the world. There is the promise that God will not be absent: "earth and sky may pass away but My words will never pass away'' (Mark 13, 31). In the midst of bad news, there is good news: The Lord will be present in His power to sustain the people. 
Easier said than done. It's a challenge to us to believe this, to believe that, in a world obviously out of control, God is in control. It's crazy and absurd ... like every Christ­ian gamble. We are, for example, meant to live in such a way that it would make no sense unless God exists, unless God cares. In a world going crazy, we crazy Christians are called to affirm joyfully our faith in God. 
And all we have to go on to do this is His word ... and our willingness to believe in it. But does He know what He is talking about? That's the question. Does ) esus' own experi­ence bear out the truth of what He said? 
It is necessary to take a hard look at the Passion, where ) esus faces His own personal apocalypse of pain, judgment and destruction. Jesus' personal world collapses wah as much catastrophe as can be found in the most shatterin~ apocalyptic writ­ing. In the mtdst of His own apocalypse, Jesus was willing to believe that the Father was in control of His world: "Into Your hands I commend My spirit.'' 
And then a marvelous thing hap­pened. It wasn't the end-time, the obliteration of ) esus' world; it was just the end of waiting for the beginning ofglory that would have no end at all. Which means that ) esus' message to us is simple: "You see how I lived? You do the same. You see where I am now? That is your destiny as well--joy and happiness that has no end-time, but is everlast­ing ... for those who are faithful to the end!" 
One last point: ) oy is not only our final destiny; it is meant to be our possession here and now. It follows from the crucial fact that God is not only not absent--His life is within us. This is the cause of our joy, in the midst of all our apocalypses. '')oy,'' Leon Bloy once wrote, "is the most infallible sign of the presence of God.'' Our joy flows necessarily from the realization that the God who comes to heal, to restore life and to liberate is alive within our hearts. 
Thus in the midst of our crazy world, inundated with evidence for despair, we can make our own the words ofScripture: "Shout for joy, 0 daughter Zwn; sing joyfully, 0 Israel! Be gla.d and exult ~ith all 
your heart, 0 daughter)erusalem ... the Lord is in your midst, you have no further misfortune to fear." Crazy Zephaniah could say that at a time of decadence and tragedy. "Rejoice in the Lord always! I say it again. Rejoice! The Lord himself is near." Crazy Paul could say that at a time of persecution and crisis. 
Have you ever noticed that there are probably as many tears at a wedding as at a funeral? The bride's mother lT'ay even bring two handker­chiefs (one for her husband as he contemplates the bills?). Usually we say that they are tears of joy. But I suspect there is a mixture: tears of joy for obvious reasons, and tears of sorrow with the awareness that many rough days lie ahead for the starry­eyed couple. How appropriate this is; for life is ambiguous. 
All our joys seem tainted with sorrow--the "quiet before the storm," the pessimist would say. But all of our sorrows seem to fade away after their initial sharpness-­"Time heals all wounds," the opti­mist would say. However, we do need more than time for a healer. Ultimately, we need God's presence, the source of our joy in the midst of our way of the cross. 

Bob Bernosk.ie and Mary-Fran ~allahan 
Spring rites and Vernal feasts 
When in April the sweet showers fall 
Andpierce the drought ofMarch to 
the root, and all 
The veins are bathedin liquor ofsuch 
power 
As bn"ngs about the engendenng of 
the flower ... 
from the Poet ofSpring, 
Geoffrey Chaucer 

Spring has always been a time for celebrauon. Though all ancient civili­zations had their unique cultural festivals, one theme is common to them all. Spring was a time of death and rejuvenation, and andent peo­ple, out offear and wonder, tradition­ally honored the gods they saw as responsible for the earth's fertility. 
In Egypt, the ancient Feast of Sed, probably the oldest festival of which any traces have survived, was enact­ed to ensure the rejuvenation of the land. 
The pharaoh, being the intermedi­ary between the people and the gods and endowed with divinity, was required to J?erform the seasonal rites ofrejuvenation. He was equated with Osiris, God of the mysteries, (Him whom one may not name), and thus the pharaoh became the dispenser of bounty who filled Upper and Lower Egypt with strength and life. 
The Hebrew spring festival was known as the Pesach or Passover which began as the full moon neared the vernal equinox at which time the firstlings of the lambing season were offered. There were sacrifices to the fertility divinity. 
The Pesach was combined with the assoth or Feast of Unleavened Bread, an agricultural rite recorded in Exodus and Deutoronomy as the annual commemoration of release from rhe Egyptian yoke. The various traditions connected with the Hebrew spring festival were interpretated in terms of these biblical events. 
Greece offers us Dionysius, god of Spring. Ceremonies began on Feb. 11 when the second fermentation of wine came to an end and was ready for drinking. According to Robert Vacca, assistant professor of Modern and Classical Languages, the Greeks were ''very uninhibited' in their methods of celebration. Heavy drink­ing followed with lads jumping on wine skins and girls being swung in swings to promote fertility. 
Greater Dionysia lasted from March 9-13 and was the last of the Dionysian festivals to be instituted in 
Athens. Vacca explained that for these five days, everyone from the lowest slave to the wealthiest citizen was equalized in the spirit of celebra­tion. 
When the Greeks held their Diony­sian festival, the state even paid for the celebration to insure that every­one could enjoy the coming of the 
season.  The  orgiastic  and  ecstatic  
Dionysian  rites,  prominent  in  the  
vintage  festivals  became  rather  

sobered and turned into occasions for presenting the finest literary achieve­ments of poets and dramatists from 100 B.C. onwards. 
According to Vacca, the Dionysian theater had a seating capacity of 17,000. Actors performed comedies and tragedies, representative of the age's classic drama, for three of the five days. 
The Romans also had their unique way of celebrating. Prior to the calendar reforms of ) ulius Caesar, March was the first month and was dedicated to Mars, the agricultural gou.. Apart from also being the war 
god, Mars was invoked to promote 
the prosperity of crops, flocks, and 
herds in addition to the welfare of the 
farmer and his household. 
Statements made by St. Augustine 
in De Civitate Dei,. yield information 
on these festivals. and games. The 
Romans sacrificed cows to Tellus 
Mater (Earth Mother). Ewes and 
cows were fumigated in order to 
propagate freely and provide a 
plentiful supply of milk. The Romans 
believed that if the animals ran 
through fite, they would be more 
fertile. 

The Robigalia was a ceremony to 
avert red mtldew from the wheat. It 
involved a prayer to Robigus, the 
placing ofincense and wine into a fire 
on an altar, together with the flesh of 
sheep and the entrails of a dog. 
The Floralia celebrated the god­dess of flowering plants. It involved licentious games coupled with exces­sive drinking. In 173 B.C., the event became an annual festival by Senate decree. The obscene features of these rites were relics of an earlier fertility cult performed to ensure the earth's fruitfulness. 
The Lemuria was an ex_pulsion ritual practiced in order to dnve out evil spirits who were believed to be excessively rampant in the spring. 
The Lupercalia which originated as a rustic purific.ttion festival for flocks and herds, .. vc-.ved into a fertility rite on the Palatine Hill. Young men would run around the base of the hill, striking all whom they encountered in order to make themselvesfertile. 
Even the -\merican Indians had their special way of celebrating Spring. In a gentle custom, they remo· erl their moccas9ls from their 
feet in order to demonstrate their 
reverence for what they considered 
the pregnant earth. 
Another spring celebration which can be more closely identified with, is the drama of Redemption at the Easter Festival --a climax of the liturgical year. In the representation of the death and resurrection of Christ, the crudities of earlier obser­vances have disappeared. The funda­mental structure, however, has been 
retained. 

Thus Easter in celebrated at the 
full moon nearest to the sprin~ 
equinox between March 21 and Apnl 
25. The blessing of the Easter fire represents a survival of a prominent custom of holding fire festivals at this season. The Paschal Candle itself has solar associations and is a life-giving symbol. At first, it illuminated the nocturnal Vigil rites, but then it was reinterpretated to express victory over sin and death and the power of darkness. 
From Adon, meaning Lord, both Adonis, god of Spring and Adonai, the Supreme being derive their names. AU the beauty of early srring rejoicing is in harmony with Ea5ter. Thus the lilies in the wheelbarrow will always jolt their way to the shrines and altars. 
If you really get enthused with spring, you could follow the exa nple of one Englishwomen centuries ago, who was overcorr.e with spring lew. As she said, "it's the only chir g co wash one's face with.'' So ext erne was she in her belief that she gc r up every morning at 4 to perform this ritual. Follwing suit, many En .ilish people proceeded ro collect dew .rom the grass with silver spoons and bottle it. 

rhe Observer Monday, March 24, 1980 -page 8 
r· 
I~ 
Committee plans Senior Trip to Carribean for October break 
by Bn"dget Berry final decision should be made. 
StaffReporter Although the Nassau trip was 
not included as a possibility on 
the survev d:·~ributed to Jun­
The Senior Trip will definitely wrs after foe l.Joyte's article in be held over October Break the M~rc 7 '\'outh Bend Tri­:1ext year, Coordinator Mike bune, Gets sah1 that he expects Geis said yesterday. ''We everyone to b< satisfied. won't be certain until tomorrow ''It meets the two main criter­, but it looks like we'll be going ia,'' he explained, ''Sun and an to the Bahamas,'' he addded. island.'' It shuuld be consider­
Geis said that a meeting is ably cheaper than other alter­scheduled for 3 p.m. today, at natives, Geis said. "There is a which time Father Mario, as­lot to do and it will be less of a si!;tant director of student act­problem politically,'' he added. Ivities, will report on rhe costs October Break runs from the of a trip ro Nassau. Then a 19th through the 26th. Geis 
IN CASE YOU'VE 

MISSED IJS... WE'VE MISSI:D YOU! 
Over the past decade, Michael & Co. has been pleased to serve all of our valued Notre Dame and St. Mary's customers. Recently, we moved from our old Edison Rd. at Ind. 23 location which was just% mile away. Now we're only 2% miles away! Still on Edison Rd. Still convenient. Still the one. We welcome you to visit us soon at our all new salon. 
Ft•atur1ng hair and skincare producrs by: 
OPEN TUE. & THUR. 'TIL 9 P.M. 

NORTH: 236 W. EDISON, MISHAWAKA 256-5600 SOUTH: IRELAND AT IRONWOOD. SOUTH BEND 291-1001 
Nobody looks quite like you ... let us help keep you that way. 

Acareer in law­
without law school. 
After just three months of study at The Institute for Paralegal Training in exciting Philadelphia, you can have a stimulating and rewarding career in law or business­without law school. 
As a lawyer's assistant you will be performing many of the duties traditionally handled only by attorneys. And at The Institute for Paralegal Training, you can pick one of seven different areas of law to study. Upon completion of your training, The Institute's unique Placem-:nt Service will find you a responsible end challenging job in a law finn, bank or corporation in the city of your choice. 
The Institute for Paralegal Training is the nation's first and most respecte,j school for paralegal training. Since 1970. we've placed over 3,000 graduates in over 85 cities nationwide. 
If you're a sen1or of high academic standing and looking for an above average career, contact your Placement Office for an inteHview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on: 
MONDAY, APRIL 14 
The 
,, ~ I ' ~ 
Institute . "' ~l 235 ;:,outh Hth Street 
for :~· Philadelphia, PA 19103 
Paralegal II ,1._ ~ (215) 732·6600 
Training® lto"il •. lb •1 
·~~ AC-0035 
operated by Para-legal, Inc. 
Approved by the American Bar Association. 


Two versions 

Senate debates balancing the budget 
said that the Seniors will leave 
Sunday to accomodate Satur­
day's game. Expenses will 
include seven days and six 
night in Nassau, he said. 

''We figure it will t.:ost some­
where between $400-$450 in­
cluding car rent?.l on the is­
land " Geis said. H~ added 
that the San Fran :isco trip .which would have lasted half as long was priced at about $350. 
''When the surveys came 
back," he said, "Jamaica was 
the overwhelming preference.'' 
But the trip would have cost 
about $500, he said. Plane fare 
alone is $370. 

Juniors were asked to fill out the survey distributed in re­sponse to the "Rumor that the Irish Southern California ~arne would be moved back mto the first week of December thus ending the ABC college series," Geis said. . The San Francisco trip was originally planned to include this game in the itinerary. 
Although the Senior Trip­Committee was informed of the change almost two weeks ago, they were obliged to attribute everything to heresay until ABC made an offictal an­nouncement today, Geis ex­plained yesterday. 
"We are supposed to submit a bill to ABC for the added costs of printed materials and cancellations,'' Gei~ said. 
_A receptive audience was captivated by this performer's vzbraphone solo at the C]F Saturday night. [photo by P. johnson] 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Re­
publicans and Demouats are 
squaring off in the Senate to see 
which stde can come up with a 
more appealing plan for ba­
lancing next year's federal bud­
get. 

The Senate has set aside 
tomorrow for debating the 
~eparate approaches, both of 
which would result in a balance 
between spending and income 
in the 12 months that begin 
next Oct. 1. 

The Repubk:an version go a step further and limit spending during that period to a fixed percentage of national income -a move that Democrats insist would force severe cuts in many programs. 
. While the Senate prepares instructions for its Budget Com­mittee, the House will consider the spending plan already rec­ommended by its budget­writers. That plan would cut $16. 5 billion from the budget submitted by President Carter in January and would result in a $2-billion surplus. 
Rep. Robert Giaimo, D­Conn., chairman of the House Budget Committee, anticipates problems in getting that budget passed. The reason: liberal Democrats insist the budget­cutting fever would gut social programs they've been swear­mg by for years. 
With inflation running at an annual rate of 18 percent, the drive to reduce government spending and balance the bud­get has taken on new life this year. The Carter administration and congressional leaders say a balanced budget will be a major signal to workers and to finan­cial markets that the govern­ment means business in the anti· inflation battle. 
Nine Democrats and 37 Re­publicans have signed the GOP 
plan, which is sponsored princi­
pally by Sen. Bill Roth, R-Del. 
That resolution simply directs 
the Senate Budget Committee 
to ensure that the next budget 
does not exceed 21 percent of 
the Gross National Product, a 
measure of all goods the nation 
produces. 

That would limit spending to either $596 billion, as Roth says, or $584 billion, according to Democratic opponents. 
Sen. Edmund S. Muskie, chairman of the Budget Com­mittee, insisted such limitations would make it more difficult for Congress to deal with the ups-and-downs of the economy and would force unnalistic cuts in spending. 
In an effort to sidetrack the Roth resolution, Muskie won endorsement by the Democratic 
[continued from page 5] 

his main comi_>etitors for the GOP presidenttal nomination ­George Bush or John B. Ander­son -would be the team player Reagan says he would want in a vtce. presidential running mate. 
Reagan dodged a reply about Bush, without endorsing him in any way. About Anderson, he said: "How could you choose a fellow as vice pre..ident who says he doesn't want you as president and couldn't support you? It's a case of his turning me down.'' 
Later, at an "agriculture day" . event, Reagan was asked whether he favored 100 percent 
Caucus of a substitute that would require a balanced bud­get and earmark any surplus for tax cuts. And to give the Senate a clear choice, 1t would show where additional cuts could be made in order to reach the 21-percent level preferred by Roth. · 
The Senate will continue talking this week about Carter's proposed "windfall-profits" tax on the oil industry, which also is a major part of the war on inflation. 
Republican-led opponents of the bill, which would cost oil producers and royalty owners an estimated $227.7 billion in the 1980s, are drawing out the debate in an effort to force the 
convening of a new Senate­House conference committee that would write a more accept­able version. 
of parity · a subsidized farm price level intended to give farmers the same purchasing power they had before World War I. ''I am not as familiar with some things like that,'' he replied as a murmur of sur­pnse swept his audience of farmers. 
Bush scoffed at the Connecti­cut poll results and proclaimed himself "the new me" who talks only about issues and not public opinion surveys. He also challenged the Carter ad­ministration to explain why the deposed Shah of Iran left exile in Panama, and said he hopes the United States is trying to see that the shah gets the medical treatment he needs. 
... Campaign '80 

• 

The Observer -Sports Monday, March 24, 1980 -page 9 
Griffith dedicates tournam.ent to friend 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) ­Louisville's Darrell Griffith was a man possessed in Saturday's 80-72 NCAA basketball tourna­ment semifinal round victory over Iowa. 
Aboard the team bus on the way to Market Square Arena, the All-America guard said he was feeling sad. 
''He told me he was thinking about Jerry back home,'' said Louisville assistant Wade Houston. 
At a pep rally Friday in Louisville, Griffith had told about 1,000 fans that he was dedicating the tournament to a friend who had cancer. That friend is ] erry Stringer. 
'')'hey go back to grade school,'' Houston said. 
Stringer was the basketball team manager at Louisville's Male High School, a team Houston coached and Griffith guided to the 1975 Kentucky high school basketball title. 
Houston explained that Stringer's dtsease was diagnosed about six months ago as bone cancer, and the resulting medical battle has proved upsetting to Griffith. 
''Darrell saw ] erry right before we left Louisville,'' Houston said. ''It made him sad. So he dedicated the game 

Brown 's 'toughest' decision brings success to UCLA 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The 
Bruins are back. UCLA once 
again is competing for the 
NCAA basketbalJ title. Tradi­
tion is being served, largely 
because first-year Coach Larry 
Brown had the guts in mid­
season to fly in the face of 
tradition. 
"It was the toughest decision 
I've ever had to make,'' 
reflected Brown on the eve of 
the Bruins' matchup against 
Louisville Monday night for the 
NCAA championship. "But I 
had messed the team up pretty 
good in the beginning of the 
year, and I had an obligation to 
UCLA to get this program 
where it belongs." 
With the Brums struggling at 
8-6, Brown told his players he 
was making some lineup 
changes. Seniors Darrell 
Allums and Gig Sims, as well as 
sophomores Tyren Naulls and 
Tony Anderson were benched. 
This went against the accepted 
way of doing things at UCLA, 
where senwrs are usually 
catered to and pampered. 
''I was doing things because I 
didn't want to hurt peoples' 
feelings," said Brown. "It 
wasn't working, and I know 
why. I wasn't being myself. I 
wasn't coaching the way I know 
I can coach. I wasn't being fair 
to myself, to my players or to 
the program.'' 
So Brown inserted talented 
sophomore Mike Sanders into 
the starting lineup, and also 
gave increased responsibility to 
his ' 'four young whackos' ' ­
freshmen Rod Foster, Michael 
Holton, Darren Daye and Cliff 
Pruitt. 
"I've never seen a group as talented as these kids," said Brown. "They have no fear. They honestly believe they are better than anybody -and sometimes they are.'' Since Brown shuffled his lineup and simplified his offensive and defensive patterns, the Bruins have won 14 of 17 games. They made it into the expanded 48-team NCAA tourney, where they knocked off top-rated DePaul, among others, on their way to the final. 
It was the chance to work with youngsters like the "four whackos'' at a place like UCLA that made the 10b so attractive for Brown. After 6 1/z years of coaching in the pro ranks, he was a nervous wreck when he left the Denver Nuggets under fire on Feb. 1, 1979. 
Leaving the Nuggets to coach at UCLA might be like going from the frying pan to the fire, and while he got burned early, Brown says he's never been happier. 
"I've never had a relationship with players like I have with these kids at UCLA," said the 39-year-old native of Brooklyn, 
N.Y. "The nature of the college game leads to unselfish­ness, which is not the case in the pros. There you read about super players instead of super teams. 
''I wanted to be a teacher and have a real relationship with my players, and I wasn't getting that satisfaction in the pros.'' 
Brown almost took the Memphis State coaching job, but turned it down. The UCLA post, however, was one he could not refuse. 
.. . Era 
[continued from page 12) 
opposite Griffith. 
The freshmen starters on the UCLA team include Rod Foster and Michael Holton in the back-court. One of the starting front court players is a sopho­more, center Mike Sanders, while forwards Kiki Vand­eweghe. and James Wilkes both are semors. 
''I'm sure they'll press us as soon as we leave the dressing room," said Brown. "Ifwe get into a schoolyard game with them, we'll be in deep trouble. 
"We'll have to play team defense and try to stay away from one-and-one situations.'' 
The Bruins have assumed the unofficial title of this year's "Cinderella Team"-a tribute to their late-season resurgence after a poor 8-6 start. They finished fourth in the Pacific ­10 Conference and were among the last teams invited" into the expanded 48 team field. 
''I set so many negative records at UCLA this year that I don't even want to think about it," said Brown. "I can only thank the NCAA for enlarging the field this year so a fourth/lace (conference) team coul be invited.'' 
The Bruins, though, have been playing as well as any 
team  these  days  and  come  
flying  into  the  championship  
game  with  a  string  of  five  

NCAA playoff victories. With Saturday's victory, they im­proved their ,record to 22-9. 
The championship game, fol­lowing the third-place consola­tion game between Iowa and Purdue, will be witnessed live by more than 17,000 fans while millions more will watch on national television. 

again to Jerry on the bus." 
In Saturday's game, Griffith exploded for 16 of Louisville's first 18 points and finished with a game high 34 points. 
''All we could do was go to the boards and watch Darrell,'' said sophomore forward Derek Smith. 
''Iowa took us out of our fastbreak offense and played rough defense, so we had to play their game," said forward Wiley Brown. ''We had to go to Darrell, and he came through 
.c '' 
ror us. There was no 
If you're planning summer study and live in the 
6-foot-3 Griffith. Besides hitting 14 or 21 field goal attempts, he also led both teams with six assists and pulled down five rebounds. 
''Griffith is a great player,'' said Iowa Coach Lute Olson. I 'The tighter we played him, the better he shot the ball. He played as well against us as any player ever was.'' 
Iowa's hopes were hurt when guard Ronnie Lester, who scored the first 10 Hawkeye points left the game with his club trailing 22-17 after receiving what Olson said was a 
New York, New Jersey, Connecticut area, there's one school you should consider. 
IONA. An independent four-year college in Westchester County offering: 
• 
Graduate and undergraduate courses 

• 
Courses you want-in a concentrated time span 

• 
Convenience-dose to home and the City 

• 
An informal, productive atmosphere in air conditioned classrooms 


Summer Session undergraduate courses are offered Monday thru Thursday in the Arts, Business and the Sciences in day, and evening sessions. 
First Day Session-June 9th-July 11th 
Second Day Session-July 14th-August 15th 
First Evening Session-June 9th-July 11th 
Second Evening Session-July 14th-August 15th 
Summer Graduate courses are also offered toward an M.B.A. and an 
M.S. in Education. 
Check out lana College. The Summer Session affords you the 
opportunity to make-up and get a jump on your Fall programs. 
Check in by completing the coupon, or call (914) 636-2100. 

• School of Arts and Scaence 
---------------------------------NO I 
• 
School of Business Administration 

• 
Division of General Studies 

• 
Graduate School of Business Administration 

• 
Graduate Programs for Education 

• 
Graduate Division of Pastoral Counseling I I 


I 
I
I

I Dept. C • 715 North Avenue I ( 914) 636-2100 
I 

1 Name_ 
1

I Address 
I Cit~ Statt· 
I .
11clcphonc 
bruise. "It wasn't a re-tnJury," explained Olson. 'The doctor
I 

was concerned that if we didn't keep it iced, he'd have swelling. We expect him to play Monday." 
Lester, Iowa's all-time scorer, who missed about half his team's games this season due to two operations on his right knee, never remrned. 
"It hurt us in terms of leadership,'' said Olson about the loss. "We were suddenly forced to go with six players, instead of seven.'' 
• New Rochelle. NY 10801 1 I 
I 

Please send 1 more information I
about I Zip Summer Sessions I 
1

at IONA. 
I 

-------------~------~-----------~ 
The Observer -SportsBoard Monday, March 24, 1980 -page 10 
• • • Rivals 
[continued from page 12] 
ward to the tiebreaker having 
lost the first set of the match 
after taking a 4-2 advantage 
only to lose it, 4-5. But in thts 
Jeciding best-of-nine points 
rhird set, McMahon rallied 
from a 1-3 deficit to take the 
march, 5-3. 
In another singles match de­< tde"d in a similar fashion, number three Hopwood defear­<'d Grant Rolley, 6-2, 6-7 (4-5) and 5-2 in the make-shift third set. 

The win was coach Tom Fallon's 349th in his 24-year career, surpassing fencing mentor Mike DeCicco for se­cond place on Notre Dame's ~11-rime coaching victory list. Only retired baseball c0ach Jake Kline has more wins with 
552. Fallon also posted 62 wins as wrestling coach before 1969, bringing hi5 grand total to412. 
Saturday's gp ;dge match with Indiana State was sweet re­vmge for the h ish who lost to the Sycamores a year ago, 6-3. The match was all but decided following the six singles competitions with Notre Dame winning four of them. 
McMahon did away with Tin Capulong, 6-2, 7-5 and junior Mark Hoyer battled to a hard­fought victory over Chuck Nor­man in the number four singles match 7-5, 7-6 (5-4). Sopho­mores Tom Hartzell and Tom Robinson wasted little time in beating Galen Scott and Steve Hudack at the number five anp six singles respectively, 6-1, 6-0 and 6-3, 6-1. Robison improved his singles record to 5-l, best on the team. 
The two Irish losses came at the number two and three singles. But after the disap­point:ng lo~ses, Harris and Hop\Vood joined forct"s to take the number one doub·es comp­
etition,  6-2,  2-6,  6-4.  You  
could  tell  things  were  going  
wel1  for  Notre Dame  when  

Carl ton Harris lost control of his racquet after a serve. As the defenseless Harris watched his racquet slide all j,be way to the net, Hopwood put away the Indiana State return for the 
POint. 

'"We're about where we ex­pected to be at this point,'' said Fallon. "Things are looking very good for the rest of the season, and that goal of 20 wins still isn't out of the question. We can only afford one more loss, but with the great attitude on this team, we may not lose any. The leader­ship this year has been great with Carlton (Harris, senior -captain), and these guys have a real winning attitude. They take defeat hard. It seems like very day it's somebody differ­ent whose having a hot day, picking up for somebody who 
by Michael Molinelli 

ACROSS  38  American  
1  Parent  humorist  
5  Mend a tire  39  Contends  
10  Summit  40  Fish-eating  
14  Burden  bird  
15  Allan-­ 41  Happy  
16  Spindle  expression  
17  Ready to go  42  House  
19  Location  addition  
20  Gambling  43  On the  
cube  brink of  
21  Laundry  47  Rarely  
machine  49  Some hab­ 
22  Halt  itats  
23  Servile  50  Confederate  
sycophant  army  
25  Anger out  52  John or  
of control  Thelma  
27  Summers: Fr. 56  Bill of  
29  Large beam  fare  
33  Quickly  59  Alludes  

Friday's Results 

Sports Illustrated 

UNIVERSAL GYM EQUIPMENT TOURNAMENTS
I 

I I
SAUNAS, WHIRLPOOL, PRO SHOP LEAGUE, LESSONS, FITNESS PROGRAMS 
Student 1 Year Membership 
RAQUETBALL-$15.00 with coupon 
R/BALL &FITNESS -$40.00 with coupon 
1 _!~~~~~~----coupon------------~ 
I 205 w. Edison Rd. ND-SMC STUDENT COUPON ~ 1 Mishawaka. lnd 46544 50 ot off 1yr. membership 1
1 0
~~ n I I WH-FM offer expires 3/27/80
I I 
~----~-----------~-----------­
" .~ •'

?i \• 
I 
might be a little down." 

Fallou is especially pleased 
with the progress of freshman 
McMahon. The San Diego, 
Calif., native owns a 4-4 record 
thus far with three of the four 
losses coming af5ainst NCAA 
tournament participants. ''I 
think Mark is gaining more 
confidence with every match,'' 
said Fall on. "I think his 
deterrpined performance 
against Capulong and ex­
pecially Van Lieshoot this 
weekend showed th~t. '' 

Fall on will take the team to 
sunny Mexico City and Acapul­
co, Mexico, on Thursday after­
noon for a ten-day, ten-match 
workout/vacation. The team 
will be the guest of a group of 
former Irish players under 
Fallon. "The major objective 
of a trip of this nature is 
conditioning," says Fallon. 
"Playing a match a day on 
mostly clay courts in Mexico's 
high altitude would get any­
body into top shape.. , 

The Irish will need to be in 
top form upon their return as 
they will play 15 matches in a 
23-day span starting with Bel­
larmine on Friday. April 11 is 
the first match of the Notre 
Dame Quadrangular Tourna­
ment. ''I'm looking for the 
team to be playing it's best 
tennis right after we get back. 
With Hawaii, Ohio State, Ind­
iana, Kalamazoo and Western 
Michigan coming up in a 
hurry, they're going to need to 
be. " 
Basketball 
NCAA SEMIFINALS 
Saturday's Games At Indianapolis, Ind. 
Louisville 80, Iowa 72 
UCLA 67, Purdue 62 
NCAA FINALS At Indianapolis, Ind. Consolation 
Iowa (23-9) vs. Purdue (22-10) 
Cham pionship 
Louisville (32·3) vs. UCLA (22-9) 

Tennis . 
Friday 

Notre Dame 9, Wisconsin-Oshkosh 0 
Singles No. 1 -Mark McMahon (NO) def. Jim Van Ueshoot 6-7, (4-5), 7-5, (5-3*). No. 2-Carlton Harris (NO) def. Dave Luedtke 6-2. 6-3. No.3-Herb Hopwood (NO) def. Grant Rolley 6-2, 6-7 (4-5), (5-2*). No. 4 -Mark Hoyer (N.D) def. Mike Barth 6-2. 6-2. No. 5 -Tom Hartzell (NO) def. Paul Martinson 6-2, 6-1. No. 6 -Tom Robison' (N D) def. Kevin Reichenberger 6-3, 6-2. 
doubles No. 1 Harris/Hopwood (NO) def. Van Lieshoot!Luedtke 4-6, 6-2. 7-5. No. 2 -Hoyer/McMahen (NO) def. Rolley/Chris Wiels 6-1, 6-1. No. 3 -Jim Falvey/Tim Noonan (N D) def. Martinson/Terry Martin 6-2, 6-1. 
• Due to a limit on available court time at the Lafayette South Racquet Club, a nine-point tiebreaker was played in place of a standard third set. 
Saturday Notre Dame 7, Indiana State 2 
Single 

No. 1 -Mark McMahon (NO) def. Tin Capulong 6-2. 7-5. No.2. -Tom Csipkay (ISU) def. Carlton Harris 4-6, 6-2, 6-3. No. 3 -Buzz Hardy (ISU) def. Herb Hopwood .6-1, 6-3. No. 4 -Mark Hoyer (NO) def. Chuck Norman 7-5, 7-6 (5-4). No. 5 -Tom Hartzell (N D) def. Galen Scott 6-1 , 6-0. No. 6 -Tom Robison (ND) det. Steve Hudack 6-3, 6-1. 
Doubles No. 1 -Harris/Hopwood (N D) def. Capulong/Csipkay 6-2, 2-6, 6-4. No. 2 -McMahon/ Hoyer {N D) def. Hardy/Hudack 6-3, 6-1. No. 3-Jim Falvey/Tim Noonan (NO) def. Norman/Scott6-1, 6-4. 

'
' 
'I 
I I 
Molarity 
The Daily Crossword 


© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 
All Rights Reserved 

BREAK TIME DIRECT O'HARE­$15 EXPRESS $15 
from NOTRE DAME CIRCLE depart· 4pm 
arrive 5:30 pm
Mar~h27 
lOam 

11:30 am
March28 

lpm 2:30p.m 
INOIANA MOTOFt aus 
62 
63 64 
66 
67 68 
69 70 
71 
1 
2 
3 
4 5 
6 
7 
8 9 10 
11 12 
13 18 
24 
Charles 
of song Barren Ready tor 
take-ott Squeal: sl. Tiny flash 
Electrical measure Leg joint Colorado 
park Tarzan's 
pals 
DOWN Gloomy "-Get Your Gun" Speechless ones Ember Gulches Genesis locale Elevator cages Horatio-Noblemen Counter­feiter's aid Way out Singing 
voice 
Retain 
Muse of 
poetry 
Cat cries 26 28 30 


31 
32 
33 
34 
35 
36 
37 41 43 44 
45 
46 
48 
51 
53 
54 
55 
56 
57 
58 
60 
61 
65 


Soldiers Females Blowgun item Prepare tor publication Gambling city Burl of song African rive·r Confess Skill Mound: dial. Rush of air Namath Feeling of resentment Caps of the Middle Ages Poet Labor Convinces Group of soldiers American bird Indian peasants Conceal Emerald Isle Baseball team FluttN Slave Power org. 

The Observer -Sports Monday, March 24, 1980 -page 11 
Sports Briefs ___, • • • EastU>ast
_ 

Men grab bookstore slots ... 
The 320 available spaces in this Jear's Bookstore Basketball tournament were quickly fille yesterday after­noo_n. Sign-ups were held in the LaFortune Ballroom and assistant tournament commissioner Mary Beth Sterling announced that the roster was completed in "a little over an hour.'' 
:'When we fill~d the 3~0 spaces, we started a waiting Jist,'' pomte.d <?Ut Sterhng, acnng in place of retiring tournament comm1ss1oner Leo Latz who was out of town. "It is unfortunate that we cannot accommodate everyone who wants to play•. but it ~~oks like it will be impossible to expand the field thts year. 
Last year's tournament roster was enlarged from 256 to the prese~t ~eld of 3.20 teams. Latz has announced that a new com!Il.'sstc;>ner will b~ named sometime this week and partlctpanng teams wdl be able to pick up their tournament schedules rig~t after spring break. The finals of the tournament wlll be played on Sunday, April 27. 
...womens' spots remain available 
Ellen Dorney, commissioner of the Women's Bookstore Basketball Tournament, has announced that there are still spots available in this year's tourney after yesterday's stgn-ups. Teams of five who still want to enter should call Dorney at 6987 to enter. 
[continued from page 12] favored teams. break, we hope, t6 practice," Gorlski will next prepare the said Goralski ofthe Notre Da111e
teammates, both California na­O'Hanlon's team, just an in­team. "If the space ts madetives, Dennis Regan and Kevin terest group under Notre Dame available in the ACC then we' IIHawkins as the only O'Han­athletic terminology, for the get in some practice time andlon's plarers with high school Midwest Intercollegiate Volley­I'll bring in the East Coast forvolleybal experience. 
ball Association (MIVA) cham­scrimmage. Since J anu::try Goralski organized the East pionship to be held April 12 at we've been unable to hold moreCoast team, winners of the the University of Michigan. than four prectice sesstons at
Il.Iin~is Be~edictine College In­
"We'll have one week after the ACC."
vltattonal m ] anuary, just a year ago with players from the South Bend YMCA. The club consists not only of Goralski, 
Lacrosse teatn opens season, 
who has been active in volley­ball for 20 years, but AI Blazevich and Doug Kendall, two former players for Ball 
defeats BallState, 17-4 
State, a college with a national­ly known volleyball tradition. The Notre Dame Lacrosse warts on defense: Tim Michaels Also on the East Coast squad team began its season yester­Maurice Beshlian and Mark are five pia yers fresh from high day with a 17-4 whalloping of Tallmage. school graduation last spring. Ball State University. The Irish The Irish s::ickmen, defending 
Windy City, an all-star team were led by Mike Norton who their Midwest University Club from Chicago, dominated the scored a hat trick. division championship, travel to women's 16-team division dur­Nick Gehring added two goals Texas over spring break to take ing the tournament, losing just and three assists, while Mike on five opponents. They will one game on the day. Ironically Lynch, Carl Lundblad, and Jaz face teams from the Houston the Windy City team players Ortiz each added a pair of goals Lacrosse Club, University of can barely be billed as women· in the c·" erall team effort by Houston, Texas A&M, Dallas the club consists of girls 15 and Norrc Dame. Lacrosse Club and Texas Tech. under preparing for the Nation­AI Pinado had a superb game The (rish home opener will be al Junior Olympics, an event in in goal, stopping 16 stops. He on Afril 9 against Lake Fores1 which Windy City is one of the had some help from his . stal-College. 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m .. two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to !>.00 p.m All classifieds must be pre-paid. either"in person or through the mail.
Classifieds 
Notices 
Professional Typing. Reasonable rates. Experience typing thesis,· journal articles. 291-0495. 
Morrissey Loan Fund Last day for undergrads to apply is March 26. 
Typing done in my home. University Park Mall area. Call between 8 am-7 pm at 277-3085. 
Professional typist. IBM Selectric 11. Business and academic experience. 272·3134. 
Typing Plus. Term papers. theses, 
dissertations. Light editing, ghost 
writing. Literary search. bibliogra­
phies, genealogies. Job resume 
service. Sliding rate scale based on 
lead time. Special discounts on full 
contracts for theses and dissertations. 
Aardvark Automatic Solutions. P. 0. 
Box 1204, 46624, IJhone: (219)­
289-6753. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND ALL LOANS PREVIOUSLY DUE ON APRIL 7 WILL BE DUE ON APRIL 8 
Have typewriter--will type term pa­pers, manuscripts, etc. 287-0892. 
Free Free Free Style cut with purchase of Day into Night, Redken's new moisture control­ling acid wave. Try it. You're worth it. Just $43.00. Jan's Beauty Boutique. 143 Dixieway, Roseland. 
Typing done in my home. Call between 8:00 am and 7:00 pm, University Park Mall area 277-3085. 
Lost&Found 
LOST: Classring,Engraved MJK '81. If found please call Mike 8436. 
LOST: H-P 25 Calculator during week of March 10-14 if you've got it, please return to the Dean's Office in the Engineering Bldg. Thanks. Reward offered. 
LOST: 1-pair Nike high-topped bas­ketball shoes. white with black behind ACC. March 19th. Call Rob at 1865. 
tForRent 
Need ride to Iowa Falls [N of Cedar RapldsJ or anywhere near there. Will help w1th $$$. Call Jim 1195. 
Need rider to New Orleans for break. 
Call 288-1376. 
Need ride to Detroit for spring break. Please call Sharla 6409 and/or Bill 1944. 
Need ride to NYC. Conn . for break. Leave Wed. pm Pay $40. Jay 8894. 
Need ride to Tam(2a, Fla. for Spring 
Break. Will  share  driving  and  
expenses.  Please  call  Christian at  
272-7987.  .  

Need ride to Pittsburgh for break. Can leave any time. Will share expenses. Chris 3127. 
WANTED: Need a ride to St. Petersburg, Fla. Will share expenses. Please call 5480 (SMC). 
Need one-way ride to Nashville for break. Call 3726. 
Need riders to Green Bay area for break. 287-0422 Chrissy. 
Going My Way?? Need ride to Philadelphia for break. Mary 41-4105. 
WANTElt: 2 or 3 nders to Florida to help with expenses and driving. Leaving last weekend in March (28-30) 
returning 2 weeks later, dates and time flexible. Please call 282-1141. 
Need a ride to and from Philly. Can leave Thurs. and will help pay expens­es. Call Jim 1867. 
Renting car to PHILADELPHIA Need RIDERS.. $60 round trip. Call Greg 1757. 
Got a blank space on your wall? Fill it with color basketball Actio1 Photos. All players, all sizes. Cheap. Not available from Ronco or K-Tel. Call 8932. ' 
1972 VW Sedan--orange rebuilt en­gine, radial tires, rear window def., AM stereo radio, 24.500 miles on engine. $1250. Call Greg, work 277-0703 or home 683-7303. 
'75 VW Beetle like new. Regular gas. fuel injection, after 7. Call 277-0339 $2900. 
For sale, 1975 LeMans Pontiac (sports­coup). Good condition. Excellent stereo. $950. 8823 Greg. 

Rider needed to New Jersey~eaving Thursday. Call Stork 277-5963 after 6. 
-------.-------­
Hi Stork! Desperately need ride to South Central 
Pa. passing thru??  Jim 1688.  
Desperately  need  ride  to  and  from  
Buffalo,  NY  for spring break.  Call  
Rich Laski 6721.  

Personals 
Timmy Mark Anthony, Bite the Big Apple. Lil Sis 
Claudette, I hope you have 3 nice swim up the creek. Line and Kelly 
That doesn't make any sense to me??!! 
Galvoid, You always seem to catch me at my worst. Sorry I was so short Sat. 
P.S. No pun intended. 
Jaybird, Tuesdays are Jimes to Doughnuts Days. 
U-G·L·Y, He ain't got no alibi! Mr. Bill for UMOCI 
Volunteers needed: 
1. 
5 students, help transport mentally retarded to train for special olymplcs, Monday and Wednesday evenings, starting April 14. 

2. 
Help repaint small office In evening, week of March 24-27. Contact Volunteer Services 7308. 


Ron Lorenzini, Thanks much for the excellent nite must do it again. 
Love, Yours truly 

Laurie Reynolds: Have a groovy Spring Break. Big Sis 
Barbarella Is coming! Tuesday and Wednesday at the Engineering Audi­torium. 
Andy "Wolfie" Rauh, Your threats of physical abuse and non-communication were so awesome I decided not to breathe a word of anything to anyone. 
L.R.R.H. 

Rick, Maybe we could talk about Lynn R. over a coke at the huddle. 
Pearl Harbor 

Brian, I used to think that people from Alter were unattractive and unsophisticated (oh darling, I can't tell you why) I have quickly changed my opinion. Could it be L---? I would like to ask one question. Which one of us is really the dangerous type? 
A Princess 

Vote Countess Courtois for President! 
A. Dulac will be abolished. 
b. 
Econ tests will be outlawed. 

c. 
Class Lysergic Acid trips--required reading is the Electric Koolaid Acid Test. 

d. 
Encounter Groups at Stephan, bring your ID, a plastic tarp, a triend(s) and mazola. 

e. 
Golf clubs available in every dorm. 

f. 
Fire escapes will be ch1nged to elevators. 

g. 
Padded stairs in every building for those who like to fail down thclm. 

h. 
Golf cart demolition dtlrby. 

i. 
White Russians (with 100 proof vodka) will be available in milk machines. 

j. 
Silicide mushrooms and peyote buttons at the salad bar. 

k. 
$1000 of your tuition will be taken away from salaries and allotted for the purchase of 10 gams of coke per student. 

I. 
Coke night at dining hall--bring your own mirror and razor blade. 

m. 
Burn Howard's 3rd floor RA at the stake and serve him for a special dinner--he's a real beefy guy. 

n. 
A personal appearance and auto­graph session with Pfister Joe. 

o. 
Psychological services available for all students who do not participate in alcohol consumption. 

p. 
Ov! OV' 


ARWM, Hey Bo{.art, are you free April 12? Bergman wants to dance the night away in Casablanca and would like you to show her a swingin' time. Here's lookin' at you kid! 
Hey monopoly players--show your skill at the MONOPOLY MARATHON for Southeast A~1an Refugees in St. Joe County. Wi: oe held April1 1-12. Pick up registra•ion forms and pledge sheets at the Student Activities Office in LaFortune. 
"Tippecanoe Place" 'X'•-r; ;~1 soon ..... watch for future ads. 
________._ 
Howdy to a "Special Lady." This is my 10 words. 
Enaj, Siht eno si rof ouy! Love, Ebolrae 
Patsy, Words cannot express ... Tom 
Thanks Chris, John et al for the 
wonderful 22nd birthday. Love. Carol 
Thanks to Scoop, Tom J., Korbz, Mark P, K. Connally and everyone else who helped us establish "Musicvlews". It's been bizarre! Good luck in life. 
Mlck 

P.S. Go for it Scoop, scrap the top 40 and review the rest. Nothing Is too strange [remember Devo; and don't let them cut you back. GO FOR IT! 
Mollie, Have a very happy 22nd birthday·-and get psyched for some skiing!! 
Love, Your Little Sis 

Vegetable Bob is gonna have to wear jackets all the time over break! 
To the Gus Impersonator at 1744--why did you do that???? 
To the E-Section. Thanks for your help watching my little rug-rats, I promise I'U never do that to you again. 
Shawn F., Are you psyched??? 
Marshall Matt. What were you doing last ntght?? 11 Kinky stuff?? Happy Belated Birthday you hunk you. 
xxxxxooooo 

Secret admirer (1?!) .. Are you referring to prose or poetry? And I refuse to submit my war~ to an editor I know naught about. 
• D Murohy 

Cat, Anne, and Mary, The daiquiries were fantastic. and you all looked like "brides". You 
·11

are definitely "V-frames' Thanks for the great time' 
Jack. Brendan. & Bill 

Dave Piech: A personal just for you!!
For Rent: 4-man house. contact l:ireg 8823 or Joe 8822. 
Completely furnished apt. to sublet for summer. On bus line to N D campus. Call 288-1291 after 10:00 pm. 
Wanted 
Two riders wanted to share expenses to Florida. Round-trip only. 233-5686. 
Plane ticket for sale: One-way from Rochester, NY to South Bend. Leaving April 7. Very cheap. Call Tim 1387. 
Need ride to St. Louis area for break. Will share $$and driving. Call Brian at 3601. 
Taking riders t~ Lauderdale, Orlando, Daytona. Leaving Thurs. afternoon. [3-27] ona-way or round trip. Mark 3462 or Steve 3489. 
VOTE 
Ken Stack 
UMOC 

WANTED: IRISH BAND FOR AN TOSTAL FRIVOLITIES. IMMEDI· ATELY CALL: KEVIN 287-4635 or MURPH 7821. 
Color basketball pictures still avail­able. Slam dunks make great decora­tions. Call 8932. 
To Coach Terry Man11 '~'~ u.td the rest of the undefeated Pangoo~n lnterhall Champs, Thanks for a great season. 
Dick G. 

Suzanne, Is it true what say about people with green eyes? Cat-Man-Doo 
P.S. Say hi. to Kim R. 
Happy sunshine and Florida! Me' 
TomS.: 
So sorry for the deviation from my promise, but at least I was honest enough to call you. right? We can't all be perfect! 
Camp Tamarack· the place to be!! 
t -~-~­; ' 

Monday, March 24, 1980-page 12

_P-orts 

Scholarship reduction East Cl>ast, Windy City
clouds WCHA's future 
by Bn'cm Beglane 

Smith. "Three other schools ­
win tourney
Sports W n"ter 

Michigan, Michigan Stare and Notre Dame's proposal to Michigan Tech -and we are by Beth Huffman reduce grants-in-aid and travel going to inform the WCHA that Women's Sports Editor 
costs for the University's we want some sort of realign­hocker program could have a ment for the league. East Coast, a men's volleyball '-'lgnificant impact on the 'We (the four teams) all team from South Bend, thwart­\X' estern Collegiate Hockey agree something has to be ed Notre Dame's O'Hanlon's 
\ssociarion, to the extent of done. l~avel costs are just too hopes to win its own tourna­;>osstbly determining the future high and realigning the league ment by topping the Irish 15-10, ,f rhe league. is a realistic solution to the 15-6 in the finals of the 26-team 
In an announcement made problem. In essence, Notre SMC-ND Invitational held over -;,u qrday rnor~ing, the ~niver­Dame is going to be the leader the weekend. In the women's ,,,) stated · efforts wdl be in this move to get the league division it was the Windy City 1nade ru cut back on the realigned." club that outlasted Ball State, ,uhstanrial subsidy to ice Several possibilities exist for 15-10, 15-7. !J, 11 key by a gradual reduction realignment. The WCHA was The East Coast club, in its first ;n rhe number of grants-in-aid close to one of them two years year of existence, gained a .tnd by an artempt to reduce ago when it had voted to split berth in the finals by sweeping ita\'t·l costs.'' The hockey team into two divisions, but at the pool play 8-0 and topping Art's ,.., rhe only sport which will league meetings last spring, Bar of Lansing Michtgan, in a recctve a cutback in scholar­the . member schools voted best of three match during the .... hip·. as a result of Notre overwhelmingly to stay as a semi-finals. Similarly, Notre Dame's plan to upgrade 10-team loop, killing the pro­Dame won its pool and defeated women s intercollegiate posed divisional idea. a team, the Bel Air Ducks of ,uhlerics. The notion of the ~'CHA and Indianapolis, in a best of three 
University president Fr. the Central Collesiate Hockey contest. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., Association mergmg into one Mel Goralski, not only the confirmed earlier reports chat leasue was proposed last coach for Notre Dame, but also rhe hockey team will lose two of spnng by CCHA commissioner a player-coach for the winning its scholarships after this year, Frank Jacoby. "We favored East Coast, complemented bringing the total number down the idea," said Jacoby, "but B2.rry Smith, a 6-4 freshman ro 18. Future cutbacks, how­they (the WCHA) rebuffed from Lancaster, N.Y., on his ever. were implied in the us.'' The CCHA currently has outstandmg tournament play statement. six teams and will probably for the Irish. Smith joins two 
"The team will continue as a expand to seven next year. [continued on page 111 memb<:z of the Western Col­The proposal to form a new legiate Hockey Association next league with seven schools from season while exploring future the state of Michigan and options, including membership Notre Dame also has been in a geographically more aired over the last year. If that compact league," the state­would happen, the WCHA 
Titlegame reflects Wooden era 
ment said. would lose Notre Dame, Michi­
The 10-ceam member WCHA Ban, Michigan State and Mich­goes as far west as Denver and tgan Tech. The CCHA would INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -For also have relatively short line­larl y Darrell Griffith's offense. Colorado Springs and as far lose Western Michigan, Nor­the teams involved, the NCAA ups and are similarly studded The Louisville ''sk~a.lker, '' east as Ann Arbor, Mich. That thern Michigan, Lake Superior basketball championship game with young players. Louisville with the 48-inch verucle jump, spans aproximately 1,000 State College and Ferris State. tonight will be just like looking has three sophomores and a scored 34 points in the Cardi­miles. The desire of Notre These options remain to be in the mirror. freshman among its top five nals' 80-72 victory over Iowa in Dame and other schools to cut discussed, but as for next year "It's going to be a classic players and UCLA starts an Saturday's semifinals. back on the travel involved with in the WCHA, Smith feels his matchup of two quick teams," all-freshman backcourr. UCLA Coach Larry Brown league play is a crucial issue in team can compete. underscored Louisville Coach The comparisons continue hopes to keep the 6-foot-4 the WCHA's future. The "We won't have much Denny Crum Sunday in the down to the rype of offense guard considerably below that league's furute could very well depth, but we will have a solid ceremonial pre-game press the teams run-the hiph-post. figure Monday night. be determined by how it base for a team,'' he ex­conference prior to the game Both coaches got the idea from ·"We haven't decided yet decides to handle this issue of plained. "We have got a lot of against UCLA. former UCLA Coach John who's going to guard Griffith," travel. people coming back and if we There's more to it than that, Wo9den. said Brown. ''I don't think ym,r 
"There will be a meeting succeed in getting the recruits though. There's a reason for that in can stop him altogether. But if with the league later this we want for next year, we Along with the similar attrib­Crum's case, of course. He we can make his shots tougher week,'' said Insh coach Lefty should be okay." utes of quickness, the finalists played at UCLA and coached and keep him off the foul line, there under the ultra-succesful we'II be doing the job on him.'' Wooden, who won 10 NCAA Griffith can do more than ~hampionships with the Bru­just score, though. Brown is tns. aware of the All-American's
Irish nette_rs ragepast weekendrivals 
"I had the opportunity to all-around game. learn from the best coach I've ''He reminds me a lor of ever seen" Crum said about David Thompson,'' said 
by ."J.ichael Ortman Wisoconsin' s Junior Davis Cup ard third set because of limited Wooden. Brown, who once coached the ~\ports Wn'ter team, struggled with Notre available court time at the Crum also had the opportun­pro superstar with the Denver Dame's number one singles Lafayette South Racquet Club. ity to learn from his own Nuggets. '' Griffith is veryWhen you're hot, you're hot. man Mark McMahon for two The cold weather forced the experience in these NCAA unselfish. He will give the ball Right now the Notre Dame sets winning the first in a match indoors, and the ACC' s playoffs. He coached in the up to a teammate if he is teHnis team is on fire. decisive nine-point tiebreaker, courts were occupied by the 1972 and 1975 championship double-teamed. He's not a­A week~nd sweep of vi~iting 7-6 (S-4). After McMahon won auto show. round, ironically losing both fraid to take the big shot. He Wisconsin-Oshko~h and Ind -the second set, 7-5, the two McMahon did not look for-times to UCLA in the semifin­helps out on the boards, and he ana State improved the :it aso:1 als. makes the big play to get his
played another nine-point tie­
[continued un page 10]
mark to 6-2, extends the cur· He holds no animosity a­ream going.''
breaker in place of the stand-
rent win.1ing streak J five 
gainst UCLA as a result of Griffith will be the third straight a.nd has some pc:opl(" those losses, however. All-American player that the wondering if the Irish can do "I wouldn't be here today Bruins hope to contain in this anythmg wrong. without them,'' said Crum. ''I tournament. Earlier, they
Friday's 9-0 thrashing of Osh­learned everything I know from were successful against DePaul kosh wasn't the sleeper that UCLA." and Mark Aguirre in a second­rhe score might indicate. One of the crucial things that round u_{)set. The West Re­Although the team outcome Crum learned was the Impor­gional wmners then beat Pur­was hardly in doubt for very tance of the pressing defense · due and 7-1 Joe Barry Carroll long, a few of the matches a tactic that has carried the by a 67-62 score in Saturday's went down to the wtre m tough Cardinals through the semifinals. decisive third sets. Midwest Regionals and past The sensational senior won't 
Notre Dame's second and Iowa into the national final be UCLA's only problem, of third doubles teams had little with a stately 32-3 record. course. The Cardmals have a trouble, coasting to straight set ' 'A lot of people look at us as well-balanced lineup that in­victories in about 4 5 minutes. a run-and-gun team," said cludes freshman Rodney Mc­But the number one tandem of Crum, "But our strong point Cray at center, sophomores Carlton Harris and Herb Hop­is our defense. You don't get Wiley Brown and Derek Smith wood had to rally back after a this far without it.'' at the forward positions, and first set loss to beat Jim Van Most everyone in Market Jerry Eaves, another sopho­Lieshoor and Dave Luedtke, . Freshman Tim Noonan [left] and sophomore jim Flavey Square Arena, though,-no more, at the backcourt spot 4-6, 6-2, 7-5. [nght]joined forces to post victones at number three doubles doubt will be more cogmzant of 
Van Lieshoot, a member vf over Wisconsin-Oshkosh and Indiana State this weekend. Louisville's offense-. particu-[continued on page 9] 








