
----~­
, , , Alabama -page 8 

Monday, November 17, 1980
VOL. XV, NO. 58 an independent student newsp-aper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Police arrest young patrons Khomeini during raid on Bridget's appeals 
By job" M. Higgi"s Staff Reporter 
for unity 
Beirut, Lebanon (AP)-Iran'sState Excise and South Bend Police officers arrested an unde­revolutionary patriarch Ayatollah termined number ofpersons for underage drinking Friday night at Ruhollah Khomeini appealedBridget McGuire's Filling Station. 
yesterdayfor national unity and 
According to Bridget's owner Terry Bower, approximately 20 ..
lashed out at Iranian newspapers police officers arrived at the bar around 11:30 p.m. and began and politicians for creating achecking the identification of bar patrons. 
climate ofdL<;Sent while the nation Although South Bend police vice officers could not be reached was in a state of war.
for official comment, reports said that 1 3 underage drinkers were "You leaders, why are youfound inside the bar and 3 to 5 arrests were made. Bower said she asleep so much? Whydon't youwas uncertain ofany figures or if any of those arrested were Notre open your eyes?" Khomeini saidDame or Saint Mary's students, saying that she had not yet spoken in a blanket criticism of officialsto the police. 
engaged in political squabbling. 
"We had a uniformed police officer at the front door, so as far as His remarks followed a week­we know those kids had fake I D's and just didn't show them to the long controversy ignited by thepolice," Bower said. "The guy at the door said that everyone who arrest offormer Foreign Minister came in had an ID and we had both doors covered,. so the only Sadegh Ghotbzadeh, which pitted 
thing that could have happened is that they had a fake ID and moderates such as Presidentditched it when the police came." 
Abolhassan Bani-Sadr againstA former Bridget's employee disputes Bower's claim that both hardliners of the Islamic Repub­doors are "always covered." "They can't afford to hire people to lican Party headed by Ayatollah cover both doors, so they tell the bartender to keep an eye on it," Mohammad Beheshti.
the former employee said. "But people sneak in through there all "One paper supports one side,the time." 
another paper supports another
Bower was uncertain as to what charges would be filed as a result momi"g after side," Khomeini said in the speech of the raid, either against those arrested or against Bridget's. 
to military cadets who had re­"Generally, they'll get back to me later in the week," she said. 
turned from the warfront near the Iran-Iraq border. "You are all Moslems and should be together."

In west Germany_ 
Khomeini, claiming "90 out of 100 people" supported the Islamic Republic, called on mil­itants to "stop these papers" and

Pope calls for hutnan rights, religious freedotn 
"close their mouths." Clergy-backed hardliners reportedly forced the arrest of
Mainz, West Germany (AP) they opened the rite to mem­again ... whether on our con­the service, along with 1,500 Ghotbzadeh after a controversial 
Pope John Paul II, celebrating bers of the U.S. military and tinent or somewhere else." German priests. 
television interview. The former 
an outdoor Mass yesterday at a their dependents stationed in Poland was invaded by Nazi "This is a once in a liftetime foreign minister criticized theU.S. Army airbase in West the area. Between 10,000 and Germany in World War II. chance," said Fifth Army Corps government for what he calledGermany, recalled the struggles 12,000 Americans are serving at Police said several thousand Chaplain Lt. Col. Walter lack of war readiness and mis­of his native Poland and called the base. American soldiers and their Keutzer, a Catholic priest from management of the state-run on nations to respect human The pope expressed the hope families attended the Mass, St. Louis, Mo. "It's the only media and the economy.
rights and religous freedom as that a 35-nation, East-West while 35 U.S. Army and 15 Air chance I've ever had to be near laid down in the Helsinki ac­review meeting now being held Force chaplains participatedin the pope." (conti"ued on page 6)cords. in Madrid on the 1975 Helsinki 
The pontiff gave a German­Final Act would strengthen language Mass to an enthusi­peace "in full recognition ofthe astic crowd of about 300,000 at rights of each and every in­the Mainz-Finthen airfield six dividual and people, including 
Reagan panel begins budget plans
miles south of this city in the religious freedom." heart of West Germany's wine­He appealed for an end to growing region. 
imperialism, aggression, ex­Schultz confir-med that the
LOS ANGELES (AP)­about a long-term reduction in
ploitation and colonialism, and President-elect Ronald Reagan report does not back away from 
interest rates. But he added there
declared, "I say this also as the met yesterday with a blue-ribbon Reagan's endorsement of the is no way the nation can have~it our aim son of a nation which suffered panel of Republican economists Kemp-Roth tax bill, the contro­immediate full employment with­very much for centuries and was to receive a detailed plan intended versial series of10 percent income out inflation. 
to unrkfor pexe forced to defend these indi­to turn his campaign promises of tax cuts which critics say will On Monday, the president-elect vidual and people's rights with tax and spending cuts into reality. worsen inflation rather thanhelp plans to fly to Washington, D.~.•all decisiveness." The 14 economic advisers, led cure it. where he has-scheduled a series
and to strengthen The agenda session of the by former Treasury Secretary "It's a necessity. The president­of meetings with House andconference in Madrid was bog­George Schultz, have been meet­elect ma-l..: it a center-piece ofhis 
Senate leaders, President Carter 
one another." ged down for nearly 10 weeks as ing here since Friday to hammer campaign and economic policy. I· 
and members of the transition
the Soviet Union and its East out what Schultz described as "a think everyone here agrees whh 
staff.
European allies fought at­comprehensive long-term strat­it," Schultz said of the Kemp­He included remarks directed tempts by theWest to give a full egy" to coordinate tax, energy, Roth bill. Former Texas Gov. John 
to the American military com­airing to alleged Soviet rights regulatory and monetary policies "There is m.Jch too heavy a tax Connally visited the Reagan home munity based here. Quoting in violations and the Soviet inter­for the new administration. burden on the economy. If we for nearly three hours Saturday, English from the Apostle St. vention in Afghanistan. A com­Schultz and other members of lighten it, there will be more but refused to talk with reportt:rs Paul, he said, "Make it our aim promise was achieved Friday to the Reagan economic team, which investment, more real growth, a afterward. 
to work for peace and to allow the conference to pro­includes three former directors stronger, expanding economy Reagan aides also declined strengthenone another." ceed. of the federal Office ofManage­without inflation," he added in comment on the topics of dis­
The Mass highlightd the sec­The Helsinki accords were mPnt and Budget, refused to an interview after the panel's cussion between Reagan and ond day of the pope's five-day signed by the United States, discuss details of the report before nine-hour session Saturday. Connally, a former rival for the tour ofWest Germany, the first Canada, the Soviet Union and they presented it to Reagan. Schultz conceded that in the presidency. papal visit in 198 years to the 32 European nations including But Schultz said it contains no committee's meeting2 hich ran Meanwhile, Sen. Henry Jackson, birthplace of the Protestant the Vatican. surprises in policy. Rather than longer than originally scheduled, D-Wash., said yesterday he had Reformation. At a Mass earlier The pope also made a strong proposing new economic ll}eas­there were some disagreements. not been approached about join­in the day he urged Roman appeal for peace. ures, he said, the plan is intended But Schultz said the proposals ing the Reagan administration. Catholics to work to deepen ties "We remember clearly still as a strategy for fulfilling Reagan's that emerged are supported by "I haven't been offered any­with Protestants. the atrocious horrors of World campaign promises to cut federal the entire group. thing," he said on CBS's Face 
Although the Mass was or­War II, particularly we, sons spending by 2 percent annually Rep. Jack Kemp, R-N.Y., the The Nation. "If something were ganized by the German bishops and daughters of European and to cut federal income taxes only member ofCongress on the offered, I don't know what I would as part of the pope's pastoral peoples.," he told the crowd across the board by 10 percent Reagan economic panel, said the do... I'm not going to get into 
meeting wih German Catholics, here. "This must never happen for three consecutive years. report is .a plan that will bring that question ofappointments." 
figbti"g I risb football team retumed victorious from Alabama. Tbou­sa"ds ofstude"ts fumed out to greet theplayers. (photo byj oh" Macor) 
--~-----~-------------------------------.... 

News Brie_b 
Monday,November17,19SO-page2 
~~~~====~~~~======================~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 


Jnside.Monday 
Nine water suooly systems in 
Indiana were cited by the U.~ tnvtronmental Protection Agency for failing to meet federal safe drinking water regulations. Meanwhile, Purdue University officials announced that some water samples taken from the school's water system three months ago failed to meet the minimum standards ofthe State Board ofHealth.John McGuire, EPA's Midwest administrator, said the nine water systems were cited for failing to monitor drinking water for bacteria or for failing to inform customers of violations of the Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974. Federal regulations require public water systems to regularly sample their water for coliform indicator bacteria, which come from human and animal wastes. The bacteria may be found in drinking water ifit is not properly protected, McGuire said.­
AP 
Thousands of residents fled 
hillside homes yesterday as brush fires fanned by powerful winds raced across 17,500 acres in five Southern California communities, destroying more than 100 homes-somevalued at more than $1 million. Officials blamed at least one of the largest fires on arson. One man died ofa heart attack as he fled his burning home in the Bradbury area, where the worst fire destroyed ordamaged 80 homes, officials said A fire burnedfor a time above Pacific Palisades, where the home of President­elect Ronald Reagan is situated. But city fire officials said the blaze was contained and never threatenedany homes. Residents ofBradbury, a rustic equestrian community ofless than 10,000 people 20 miles northeast of Los Angeles, were advised by authorities to evacuate after a roaring firestorm covered 4,000 acres. -AP 
TheUnited States,sold on the effectiveness of 

a limited U.N. peacekeeping role, wants a phased withdrawal of Iraqi invasion forces in Iran and interjection of an "international presence" between the hostile armies, a U.S. official said. The ranking official, who asked not to be identified, told The AssociatedPress he believed "theSoviets so far would supportthat sort of an operation" after a cease-fire. Conceding that the divided U.N. Security Council lacked the "political wallop" to force Iraq to pull back, the official said the United States favored "one form or another of phased withdrawal... so that there is at least a separation of forces -at least some terrain where you might interject an international presence." The official said that presence did nothave to beanarmed force such as the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon, and that it might be a "mediatory, conciliatory or observer presence." "The objective ofthe game is to have a third party come in," the official said, adding that this could be the United Nations "or some other party." -AP 
The United Way campaign at 

Notre Dame sailed by the $96,200 mark today-more than 122 percent of the $79,000 goal. Pledges of support for the county-wide campaign are 46 percent ahead ofthe sum raised a year ago. Increased participation by members of the faculty, staff 'lnd student body was noted by campaign officials on campus. Theodore]. Crovello, professor of biology, directed the 1980 campaign, assisted by several department leaders. Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president ofthe University, congratulated the scores ofworkers who helped move the campaign over the goal. "Once again I am extremely pleased to note the generous response of so many members of our community. Their concern for fellow residents ofthe area is a source ofhappiness forallofus," he said. The NotreDamephaseofthe United Way campaign began in the early weeks of the fall semester when departmental and section meetings were scheduled in various areas of the c lmpus. A special film produced on campus was shown at these meetings and crews followed with the distribution of pledge cards. -The Observer 
Hie:hs in the low40stoday. Cold tonight 

around'3'o. Clear and cool on Tuesday.-AP 




Freedom from ignoranCe 
Social justice (and injustice) has long been a concern of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­

Margie
munity because ofits Christian orientation. Social concerns have always found spokesmen among the students and faculty here-people who believe 


Brassil
that education must go beyond the classroom into the problems of daily life that plague society. 

Last week these concerns became an even m()re over lunch in the Rotary room of the dining hall. noticeable part of our campus life in the form of This forum affords students a chance to discuss the The Liberator, a social justice newsletter sponsored topic in detail, and suggestions are offered onways by the Saint Mary's Student Government. to become involved in finding answers to the 
The Liberator by its very name conveys the problems presented. message that through knowledge and understand-The first issue deals with the problems ofprison ing the ideals ofsocial justice can become a reality. reform and was coordinated with a lecture on The Liberator is designed to free us from the white collar crime sponsored by the Pre-Law bondage of ignorance by giving us, through the Society and a slide show on the Stanford Prison powerful medium ofthe printedword, many ofthe Experiment provided by the Psychology Depart­facts needed to make knowledgeable, educated ment. In this first issue, two men who served time judgments on socia,l issues. in the Indiana State Penitentiary give a historical 
"Social justice" encompasses a broad range of overview of the penal system and prison reform, issues, including prison reform (the topic of this and Joan writes about women in prison. month's newsletter), child abuse, equal rights, Joan conftsses she would like more points of corporate responsibility view on the issues discussed, and world hunger -all but in order for her to issues that will affect our accomplish that, she'll need lives in some way. The more people who are will-e~sence of the concept of ing to write. As with any social justice is the aware-publication The Liberator ness that these issues do can succeed only ifenough not concern -faceless people are willing to make masses, but real persons, the effort to put the news-and that as members of letter together. society we have a respon-The problems and topics sibility for the manner in of social justice are many which society affects each and varied. There are of their lives. plenty of ideas that can be 
The newsletter is the presented in such a pub­brainchildofJoanMcCarthy, lication. We are all familiar vice president of academic with the various established affairs. Joan believes it is a social justice groups on necessary part of her campus. But ifThe Liberator responsibilities not only to catches on asJoan hopes it implement educational will, it should provide us programs on campus, but with a broader knowledge also to make them visible to the students. ofmany ofthe less familiar social justice issues. It is 
And Student Government, in its concern for an area in which we, as students, need to take a promoting social justice education, created the continuing interest, for it is part of the world in position of Social Justice Commissioner on the which we live. Board ofGovernance. This position acts as a link Ignorance will never produce solutions. Only between the Social Justice Education Committee through knowledge can we deal with these issues. and Student Government. It will also provide a By establishing the position of Social Justice 
• balance between social education and classroom Commissioner and creating The Liberator, Student education on campus. Government has recognized the need for educating 
Joan hopes to publish The Liberator monthly. students about the problems of social justice and Each month the pulication will deal with a single has found an effective means to provide for that aspect of social justice. Hopefully student groups need. involved with different areas of social justice will Ob 
sponsor editions. This ~~uld give groups such as server Notes 
the World Hunger Coahtton or SURE a means of ----.. presenting their concerns. The Liberator only scratches the surface of 
The Observer news department is looking for a information, but it will give an overview of the 
Monday or Wednesday day editor. If you're subject," explains Joan. To follow up on the topics 
interested and would like more details on duties covered in each edition, an open dialogue with the 
and salary, call Tom Jackman at 8661, or 3207 authors of the articles is held the following day 
after 11 p.m. 
_'fhe_Qhserxer_ Design Editor . .............. Mike Monk Design Assistants . .......... Patty H ulley Monica Gugle Layout Staff... ............ Rich Fischer Night technician ........... Rich Fischer News Editor .............. Pam Degnan Sports Copy Editor ....... Beth Huffman Typirt.................... Linda 1-iewitt Systems Technician.... . ... Steve Brown ND Day Editor ... ........ Pam Degnan SMC Day Editor ........ Eileen Murphy Photographer ...............John Macor G11est Appearances ......... Margy Kruse Ryan son of Maxi  
The Obmver (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Ob11rver Is publishedby the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year($1 0 per semester) by writing The Obaerver, P..O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Ob11rver Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights· are reserved.  



As a pilo~ you'll be trained to fly the most ad­vanced jets ever developed. As a Naval fligh.t officer, you'll operate the sophisticated weapon systems, computers, and advance electronics. As either, you'll wear the wings of Naval Aviation. 
Code of the West requires you to be in college ora graduate, less than 29 years old. 
Call collect (312)657-2171. 


The Grotto enjoys one ofits last quiet fall days. With finals only a few weeks away, this is .rure to become a popular .rpot. (photo by john Macor) 
Shenefield lecture reveals intelligence controversy 
The Observer 

By David Sarphie Staff Reporter 

The complexities of national and international relations have intensified over the past few years, and so has the impor­tance of covert intelligence to our national security contend­ed U.S. Associate Attorney General John Shenefield. Shenefield spoke before a small, but attentive crowd at the Law Auditorium on Friday. 
Shenefield cited such recent scandals as Watergate and U.S. intervention in Chile as causes of the division of thought now apparent among the various intelligence organizations. 
"On one side we find the charterists, composed mainly of lawyers, who emphasize the need for a separate intelligence director to report to the Presi­dent," Shenefield said. "They 

Rocks/ide kills three 
YOSEMITE NATIONAL PARK, Calif. (AP) -A rock slide killed alleast three people and injured at least six others yesterday on a popular trail at Yosemite National Park, offici­als reported. 
A "good deal of rock and debris" rumbled onto a 600­yard stretch ofthe trail between the upper and lower Yosemite Falls shortly after noon, said Linda Abbott, a spokeswoman for the National Parks Service. · 
"The trail seems to be some­what obliterated," she said. 
"I looked over there and saw a boulder rolling down slowly," said Mike Rover, a security officer fo( the park's conces­sionaire, Yosemite Park & Curry Co. "It seemed about the size of half a house. It was huge." 
"I could see large treetbend­ing over from large boulders coming down the slide," said Ben Yonan, assistant security chief. 
The slide occured along a series ofswitchbacks-hairpin turns-about halfway up the trail alongside the 2,700-foot falls. 
Mary Niles, the park librari­an, described the face of the mountain after the slide as "a big blank place." 
are lobbying for an increase in the legal oversight of these agencies to prevent such em­barrassments as Watergate from occurring." 
The charterists are opposed by the "old professionals," re­tired intelligence officials who believe in the necessity of sec­recy. "They disdain the thought of allowing classified informa­tion to spread all over Capitol Hill," Shenefield remarked. 
Academic leaders tend to think along the same lines as the charterists, according to Shene­field. They stress the need, however, for the director to be independent ofany intelligence agency. "In the past, the dir­ector of the CIA has had the influence in the White House," Shenefield noted. "This has done little to improve their relations with the FBI and other agencies." 
Abbott said the injured were evacuated by helicopter, as were six hikers stranded at the top of the steep trail by the slide. She said four to six others were below the slide area and were not injured. 
A spokesman for Yosemite Hospital at the park said five people had been brought in for treatment by late afternoon, some of them "badly injured." 
Finnegan lectures 
•


onrmrnage 
Fr. John T. Finnegan,Jr., recent Chairperson of the Canon Law Society ofAmerica's "Committee on the Status of Women in the Church," will speak tomorrow evening at 8:00 in Hayes-Healy 
122. The topic and title of Fr. Finnegan's talk is "MARRIAGE: BOND OF BONDAGE," a par­ticularly interesting topic in light of the recent Bishop's Synod in Rome and the Pope's statements regarding marriage. An oppor­tunity for questions and discus­sion with Fr. Finn egan will follow the lecture. 
Monday, November 17, 1980-page 3 
'With love and SUWlrt' 
Carter's church offers condolences 
Fred Gregg, the teacher, told 
Juniper Press announces 
Carter he would be remember-~ 
ed as a great president. Gregg told Rosalynn Carter she has been "a super first lady." 
Carter, who taught the class a lesson on Christianity, said he was" not going to get emotional because we will be here two months and I can't sustain it that long." 
The president thanked his class members for accepting the First Family, "not as special people who live in the White 
Artist Series presents 



brass quintet 
Notre Dame's University Artist Series completes a busy week with a performance by the Metropolitan Brass Quintet at Sacred Heart Church Sunday, Nov. 23. The 8 p.m. concert will be the third in eight days present­ed by the Artist Series. 
The Metropolitan Brass Quintet, consisting of trumpeters Robert Dolwick and]ohn Brndiar, trom­bonist James Taylor, French hornist Charles Ward, and Richard Barth on tuba, has been delighting audiences throughout the Midwest for years. The Cleveland-based group recently recorded an album with Crystal Records. They have performed on television in Cleveland many times, as well as giving recitals at the Cleveland Museum of Art and performances at many colleges and universities through­out the Midwest. 
The Quintet's repertoire is rich and varied, featuring music of all periods and styles. 
MOLARITY ON THE ROAD TO SELLING OUT A selection of Michael Molinelli's best cartoons from 1977-1979: A COLLECTOR'S ITEM 
Getyourcopytod~ 
Available at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Bookstores 
T------~---------~ 
t t t FOOTBALL FANS: t t t t t t COME SEE t t 14 FARLEY WOMEN t 

: SCORE!! : 
: lnterhall Finals t t Wednesday, 8 p.m., Cartier Field : ..< 
t t 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
11~11\~ll~l!/~1~11 
TWO DAYS ONLYI 
Mon.-Tues. Nov. 17-18 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. 
LaFortune Student Center Main Lobby Area 
By special arrangement with Gallery Lalnzberg, Cedar Rapids, Iowa 
do not conform" to their view, but said, "We are not dealing with evil men but with good men whose zeal has led them down a strange and dangerous path. 
"I fear the would-be ayatol­lahs of religion as I would fear a plague," he said. "I fear for our country if any religious group stalks the hallways of Congress wielding the whip of power. Persuasion? yes. Power? No. 
"Love, not power, is the healing force that reconciles enemies." 
Washington (AP) -The members of President Carter's First Baptist Church offered him condolences yesterday his election defeat "with love and prayerful support." 
In a Bible class before wor­ship service, the resolution was read aloud and presented to the president. It said, "None of us can imagine the feelings in your heart after the election," and thanked him for belonging to their church. 
"Thank you very much," a somber Carter responded. "That means so much to me." 
House but as neighbors." 

In the sermon, preached by Claude Broach, a retired min­ister from South Carolina, zeal­ous religious organizations who seek power came under attack. It apparently was a reference to the Moral Majority, a religious fundamentalist group credited with helping President-elect Ronald Reagan win the election and with bringing about the defeat of a group of liberal senators. 
Broach said it was wrong to "make a hit list of all those who 
The Observer Monday, November 17, 1980-page 4 


\bu . be 


physi~
fit now.. 


butwillwu 
besure of insurabilityat40? 
New York Life's Policy Purchase Option guaran­tees the right to build fi­nancial security later on­regardless of future health or occupation. 
See me soon for details. 
MIKEBLAIR 

-234-..5600 ­

1--RQCCQS--t '­
men's and women's hairstyling at comfortable prices 531 N. Michigan 233-4957 
.. 

1
'\. 

Jury deliberations continue in K1ansrnn trhl 
Greensburo, N.C. (AP) The jury in the murder trial ofsixKu Klux Klansmen and American Nazis resumes deliberation for a seventh day today in a com­plicated case in which the issue of intent plays a major role. 
The panel of six men and six women has been asked to de: termine whether any defendant intentionally broke the law when five members of the Communist Workers Party were shot to death at a Nov. 3, 1979, "Death to the Klan" rally. 
Jurors already have deliber­ated five full days and part of a sixth day. 
Each defendant is charged with five counts of first-degree murder and one count offelon­ious rioting. The panel may find each defendant innocent or guilty of first-degree murder, first-degree murder with pre­meditation, second-degree murder or voluntary man­slaughter. 
Although the defendants are being tried together, the jury must return verdicts for each defendant. There are countless possible combinations of ver­dicts. 
When Guilford Superior CourtJudgeJames M. Long in­structed the jurors 10 days ago, he told them that intent was" an attitude rarely shown directly. He said intent could be inferred from evidence of the defend-


Coal-fired future seen for railroads 
MORGANTOWN, W.Va. (AP}­Coal can and should replace oil as the primary fuel used by America's railroads, a ·west Virginia University study says. 
"It is technically, economically and environmentally feasible to convert 90 to 95 percent of the nation's rail system to coal-fired locomotives," said M. Dayne Aldridge, director of WVU's Energy Research Center. 
In 1979, railroads consumed about $4. :'> billion gallons of diesel fueL which costs an average 
of82 cents per gallon, the WVU study said. The total fuel costs, including fuel handling by the 
railroads, were $:'>.66 billion. If the railroads had used coal, assuming Eastern coal prices, they would have saved about $1.27 billion, according to the study. 
"Besides these direct economic benefits for our railroads, the conversion to coal locomotives 
would provide other advantages,"said Aldridge. "Among these would be a reduction of oil 
~ ~  CHRISTMAS BUSTO NEW JERSEY AND NYC  i • ! :  
* ~ ~  Youmustbringcheckorcashto reserve seat  * e t •t :  
***  Take care of your X-Mas travel  *! •.  
I* pans now! Save $$$ t The New Jersey Club will take* reservations tonight at 7 p.m. in ! Lafortune Ballroom  * •! e! : * • ~ •  

t*********************************: 
t* ******************************** : 
~:=======================:::::::::::::::=======::::::::;:::;:::::::;:;:::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:: e 
m: Quality I • 
•
::: 111 g S i :::: •
1 .a.Jpln erv ce f : 
imports and thus a positive effect on the nation's balance of trade; the domestic consumption ofan additional 35 to 50 million tons of coal a year and jobs for an additionall5,000 to 20,000 coal miners." 
The railroads would also be freed from ·the political uncer­tainties linked with foreign oil dependence and the adverse effects ofprice increases, he said. 
The study, which is entitled 
"Coal as a Rail Fuel: An Assess­ment ofDirect Combustion," was funded by the American Coal Enterprises, Inc. Itwas co-authored by Aldridge, economist Thomas Campbell and Alfred Galli, professor ofchemical engineering atWVU. 
"According to our findings," said Aldridge, "a coal-fired locomotive using that firm's 
(continued on page 5) 


Fr. Edmund P. joyce and Moose Krause are joined by two Sugar Bowl officials outside the Notre dame lockerroom after saturday's contest. Because oftheir victory over Alabama, the Fighting Irish were 
extended a bid to play in the Sugar Bowl, and they readily accepted. 
That game, which will pit them against undefeated Georgia, could 
decide the national championshrp. It will be played in New Orleans on january first.(photo by Phrllrp johnson) 
8 ...............................6. 
• 

ant's manner before, during and after the act he is alleged to have committed. 
Defense attorneys contend the caravan of Klan and Nazi vehicles to the rally was intend­ed to be a peaceful demon­stration that erupted into gun­fire when the Klansman and Nazis were attacked. 
The defendants testified they went to the rally to heckle communist demonstrators and perhaps throw eggs. There were seven dozen eggs in a van that police stopped as it left the scene of the shootings. Five of the defendants were inside that van. 
Prosecutors, on the other hand, have argued that defend­ants intended to disrupt the rally by whatever means nec­essary. 

Annual 


CIIAsale h:girnllichy 

CILA Christmas cards will go on sale starting today and will be on sale until Friday, December5. The student-designed Christmas cards will sell at 5 for $1 and will be available in various places ... Buy your Christmas cards now and help support CILA. 
• 

PHOTOGRAPHY CONTEST :
•
(sponsored by Observer Features/Photography Depts.) : PRIZES: e First prize-$25 • Second-$15 : Third -$1 o .•
Honorable Mention-$5 
• 

RULES: e 
1) Contest is open to all ND/SMC students except : paid campus publication photographers. • 
2) Pictures must be in black and white, 5"X7" • to 8"Xl0". Negatives should be available if photo : 
is selected for publication. Winning photos will e be published in a special Observer midpoint Dec. 9 • 
3) Open theme. Photos will be judged for their • originality, aesthetic appeal and technical : 
Iii ' =~~;~!~:~,:,,,,,,,, <· ~
'"'· 
i ;;;.;;;;;~;;.;~~:t;n;;~;~;;;,;~r::::~ 
·ll!MICHIAI'A COLLEGI or COIIIII~~~-·I!!l e phone number on the back of each photo. e 



The Observer Monday, November 17, 1980-page 5 
'Crisis proportions' 
North and South Korea relations plummet 
By Bruce Cumings Pacific News Service 

EDITOR'S NOTE: US. influence over the mounting difficulties in Korea seems to have sunk to a new low. But there is a wayfor the United States to reassert itself, and at the same time update its anachronistic coldwarpolicy in Northeast Ast(t. The solution is to open U.S. talks with North Korea, argues Bruce Cumings, a specialist on Korea at the School of International Studies at the University ofWashington. 
While the conflict in the Middle East has naturally preoccupied American attention, the long simmering troubles in Korea have reached crisis proportions over the past year. Relations between the North and South ha•· plummeted to new lows in recent weeks. And the craven dictator who calls himself pres­ident in the South may any day execute the man who is the very symbol of human rights and democracy in Korea, Kim. Dae 
Jung. 
The American response to both 
thesc terrible possibilities is to 
wring its hands and plead that it 
has no leverage. 
But in fact, the crisis now coming to a head offers the United States a golden opportunity to restore a semblam:c of logic to the anachronistic cold war policy that has governed U.S. relations with this strategic peninsula since 1945. At the same time, and in the same way, the United States 
could chastise the zealous South Korean dictator Gen. Chun Tu Hwan, cool war fears, reassert 
U.S. influence in the region and, perhaps, even save the life of Kim Dae J ung. 
The first step is simple: Open talks with the North. 
The most compelling reason for forging a new Korean policy is that the old alignments and alliances on which the current policy is based have come un­
' ' .Cool 

(continued from page 4) 
design could be built and in operation by 1983 if a tightly scheduled development and con­struction program was started now. And we think that in five years such a locomotive would have a significant impact on the importation of oil and the con­sumption of domestic coal." 
The study said that currently railroads consume about6.2 per­cent ofthe diesel fuel and heating oil consumed in the United States annually. By switching the rail industry to coal, these fuels could he put to use by industries where the use ofa solid fuel such as coal is impractical, the study said. 
The coal-fired locomotive proposed by Amercian Coal Enterprises is a two-stage, com­bustion, reciprocating type. It's planned for heavy-duty freight service and is comparable to a diesel locomotive designed for the same work. 
glued, washed away by successive waves of economic and political change. The American stake in Korea is no longer primarily strategic but economic. Also, North Korea no longer representS the threat of monolithic com­munist aggression against a weak neighbor, but could itself become a quasi-ally in an expanding in­formal alliance that already includes the U.S., China and 
Japan. Korea could square the triangle. 

The Nixon opening to China and Carter's further courtship have resulted in a situation in which North Korea's best ally, China, is also the United States' de fa,·to ally. This U.S.-China connection also has encouraged a new, tripartite security relation­ship. between those two countries and Japan, directed against the Soviet Union. Since North Korea has been closer to China than to · the Soviet Union since the mid­1950s, the strategic logic of1980 -suggests that it might become part of the general array of anti­Soviet states in Northeast Asia. 
After all, North Korea severely 
condemned the Soviet supported 
Vietnamese invasion ofCambodia 
in 1978, and it has issued several 
veiled blasts against the Soviet 
invasion ofAfghanistan. The fly 
in the ointment is the inveterate 
South Korean obstruction ofany 
American contacts with the North. 
The U.S. economic stake that developed in the 1970s in South Korea is no real obstacle to a relationship with the North, which seems ready and willing to participate in the world economy. Since the early 1970s the North has made it dear that its self­reliant"juche" ideology does not mean abstention from the world economy. The North Koreans were, if anything, more eager than the Chinese for western and 
Japanese technology, causing them to over-extend themselves financially to the point where they had to default on loans. The North is much more urban and industrial than China, and faces a technological imperative to up­grade and renovate its industrial plant. 
Instead, it is South Korea that has problems with the economic logic of the 1980s, since China is starting to export textiles and 
DON'T MISS YOUR CHANCE TO SEE LIVE NBA ACTION! 
TRAVEL WITH THE BOSTON CLUB TO THE BULLS vs. CELTICS GAME 
(Tues., Nov. 18) 
Tickets: $15 includes transportation· ticket and refreshments Call Mike at 2836 NOW! Bus leaves at 6 p.m. 
electronic equipment and draws 
on a much cheaper labor pool. 
North Korea can export needed 
minerals and industrial equip­
ment in return for the new 
technology that it needs. 
In early September Kim II Sung, the North Korean leader, ; 
offered to break defense treaties with the Soviet Union and China ifthe U.S. would sit down to talks on a peace treaty to end the Korean War (only an armistice holds the peace now). The specifics of this unprecedented proposal are less important than what lies behind it: clear Northern recog­nition that the changed security relationships of Northeast Asia now suggest a new North Korean relationship with the United States. Several Americans, in­cluding former State Department spokesman Tom Reston, have just concluded their first visits to Pyongyang. 
An American opening to the North would certainly shake the foundations under South Korean President Chun Tu Hwan and the financial establishment which he represents. The-notion that the North is a mortal and constant enemy of the South, and of all 
U.S. economic interests in the South, is the major trump card which allows Chun to hold his winning hand, even while thumb­ing his nose at the United States. 
But there is no reason to believe that South Koreans generally share this view. Indeed, the op­position leader Kim Dae Jung, who is now under the death sentence, draws much ofhis own popular support from two power­ful undercurrents in South Korean politics: the deep desire for a policy of national self­reliance, and for reunification with the North. These currents remain subterranean because, from time to time, it has been a crime, punishable by death, to discuss them in public. 

Not everyone could make the road trip to Alabama this weekend, so these loyal Domers dtd the next best thing and watched the Irish victory on T.V. (photo by john Macor) · 
i( *tfm~~ * Ol:r.. ~•et..· 80-DIIUY*~* U~!* 
FRIDAY ·•Y. 21, 1:01 P.ll 
~~DAN£A,t!,C. 


.....o.n.a.c.c. ........s.,............. 
...•a..t ,.......................... 
•._Cir._.S...II'I!IIIII ....UII • ..._ 
............................ 
...............CIIr ......... ............lAIII .........., ..... ~ .... ...............,.......... 
1iaiiiri~i111'tmaR~1 -;'-~6~~9{!!~~:,·
·· · ~"Y pc:ly 1)1Qre at the malls? 
~!~ \f~c$'1----....0----Q-.0-F__,F!J .. ~~~.:~!fi:~;~~f~
c 
Y < 

i.·•··~qpen· ~~~!t1(l:OO every night.ii i ~~P/S~ch~k$ cashed up to $20.00 
~i~Aj~x Jt:;~~~;:s I 
... ... .).··.• .········ ...······ .·.. so91o~l!s. 31 North 1 
lil.ti~~---:m~-------J 
Editorial Board and Department Managers
==Ihe_-Obsener.== 
Editor-in-Chief .......... Paul Mullaney Sports Editor ............ Beth Huffman
•

Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Managing Editor.: ... :....... Mark Rust Features Editor ........... Molly Woulfe 
The Observer is a .. mdependent newspaper published by the students of the 
Editorials Editor ......... Mike Onufrak Photo Editor .............. .John Macor
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collese. It does nor necessarily 
Senior Copy Edtfor ......... Lynne Daley 

reflect rhe policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reponed 
Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges
ExecuNr;e News Editor .... TomJackman

as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a 
Controller .................... .Jim Rudd
New.r Editor .............. Pam Degnan

majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views 
Advertising Manager .......... Mark Ellis 
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and SMC Executive Editor .... Margie Brassil 
Cirmlation Manager ....... Beth Hackett
ihe free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC News Editor ......... Marv Leavitt 
Production Manager ......Joh,!l McGrath
:d 



Tbe.~======================================== 
Campus 
• 3:30p.m.-economics workshop, a study of man­ufacturing firms in brazil, room 400, mem. library. 
•4:15 
p.m. -talk by paul reynolds of the place­ment bureau, room 105, o'shag. 

• 
7-9 p.m.-art opening: isis gallery. 

• 
7 p.m. -third world workshop meeting, library lounge. 


• 7 p.m.-minicomputer course, 115 ccmb. 
• 
7:30 p.m. -film: a man escaped, washington hall. 

• 
8 p.m. -lecture: what are scientific revolutions?, thomas s. kuhn of princeton 

•tniv., 
lib. aud. 



. . . Khorneini 
(continued from page 1) 

Bani-Sadr, backed by moder­ates and the Tehran daily Enqelabi Is/ami, mounted a suc­cessful campaign to free Ghotbzadeh, a campaign that received support from tens of thousands of Tehran's bazaar merchants. 
"If they (the enemies of Iran) are victorious, there will remain no prime minister, or any pl·es­ident, or a Majlis (parliament) or a military official or a bazaar merchant," Khomeini warned. 
"At this very difficult time when our country is at war, you gather and · say nonsense," Khomeini added He said disunity of the nation of 36 million was the goal ofits enemies, especially the United States. 
"These are plots," said Khomeini. "They are making fools of you. They are playing with the newspapers, they are playing games with the (battle) fronts. The plan is to separate you from each other." 
Khomeini singled out for crit­icism the bazaar merchants, the pro-communist Fedayeen group and critics who argued the clergy should confine their role to theology and leading prayers in mosques. 
"Today their plan is that the clergy should go and pray," said the 80-year-old religious leader of the predominantly Shiite Moslem nation. 
~«:}cJlC3l~=·==========================M=o=n=da=y=,=N=ov=e=m=b=er=1=7=,=1=9=80=~=a=g=e=6 
Molarity 



114ESE BOOTS ARE FILLED 
WITH 6005E DOWN.• 
IT'S Mlf E)(PEDITION BOOTS, Slit.WHILE WE'RE LOOKIN6 FOR CHUCK, WE MI61-1T RUN INTO SOME 
BAD WEATHER... 


The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 
' 

Michael Molinelli 
Charles M. Schulz 
BUT DON'T WORR~SIR .. 
IF WE MEET AGOOSE, \fOU CAN PRETEND L(OU DON'T KNOW ME~ 

(.( ....
weilfl D~ 
.UL ~~ ·.~D. i 
ACROSS 1 -oak (llex) 5 Scrawny 

animal 10 Concerning 14 Samoan 
capital 
15 Sword scabbard trimming 

16 "-Kampf" 17 Racesthe 
motor 
18 Aspire to 
19 Fleuret 
20 Military 
drill maneuver 23 Part of ETA: abbr. 24 Sounder 
Fridny's puzzle Solved 

25 Candle 27 Building 
addition 30 Expand 33 Gods:Lat 36 Simpletons 39 Serve food 40 Obvious 43 Actress 
Verdugo 44 Cinereous 45 Bobble 46 Nearly 48 Hanoi 
holiday 50 Timeless, old style , 52 German city 57 Beard of grain 59 Farm stock 
SL  I D .E D G E Si H DPE  
PI SA .Q U O I T  A L AN  
A L  T I  T U  D  I  N  D  U  S  A  N D  
D I  s Q  U I  ET.C  :l  us  I'' ~ TAf T A A R N D  
•••u s Q  U I  R E •  R NIS.  E I R C A l 
0 u T R  E.  A  X  E  D•  
LA-p T I  T U D  I  N IO  
u s  E­ - N  D  S  E .  8  U  L  G E  
~ I  R_. 8  A  R  r • G  A  L  lL  10 N  
0 N  E A  AW N.M T A .  S A  I R  N G  A  T­S  S 0  
p u L C  H R  I  T  U  D  I  N  0 U  us R A  
E L  L E .E  R  0  D  E . A  
C L  A D •s  E W  E  R • s  L  A Y  

10/25/80 
83 Trade treaty letters 
65 Immerse 66 Roof 
overhang 67 Winglike 68 Waned 69 Parched 70 Count 71 Farm 
Implement Inventor 72 Military meal 
DOWN 1 Dwellson tiresomely 2 "Tosca" or 
"Aida" 3 Animate 4 Pool shot 5 Scrutinize 6 Pert girl 7 Avatarof 
VIshnu 8 Separate 9 Loseone's 
temper 10 Parisian's soul 11 Dairy 
equipment 12 Row 13 Lalla· 
palooza 21 Before 22 Star In 
Virgo 
26 Make happy 28 Bagel filling 29 Northern European 31 Region: 
abbr. 32 Noun ending 33 Secluded 
hollow 34 Simple 35 Otherwise 37 Southern 
state: abbr. 38 Season 40 Horseor 

cow 41 Relieved 42 Maiden name 
word 47 Swapped 49 Kind of 
party 51 Daughter of 
Tantalus 53 Vapor 54 Gaze 55 First name 
in rock 56 Requires 57 Stabilizing 
agent 58 Ridge made 
by a whip 60 Hayseed 61 Belgian 
river 62 Giveup 64 Put to 
test 

L------------..!....-------------------------------------...J 
ARMY ROTC PROVIDES 
merit scholarships-up to $20~000 !!! leadership development 
CALL

management training 
(219) 283-6264
adventure 
employment opportunity 
Graduate from Notre Dame as an Army Officer ., 

..... 
~j)()1"tSclJ==~=t=·e~!~=S======~~====================M=o=nd=ay='=N=~=e=m=he=r=17=,=1=98=0=~=~~e7
by The Ohsert't'r and The AJJodat!'d Pn.r.r 
Armv ticket refunds for Notre Dame or 
St. Mary's s"fudents who ordered an individual game ticket for the October 18 game and did not pick up that ticket are available in the form of cash refunds during the hours of ~-5 
p.m. Monday through Friday at the Gate 10 Box Offtce Window. Students may pick up their refund during the month of November. The last day refunds will be issued will bt Wednesday, November 26 (the day before Th~nksgiving b:eak). Presentation of your student ID cards is requtred to obtam the 
cash refund. 
Men's basketball captains for both A and 
B interhall divisions are required to attend a meeting Tuesday, Nov. 18 at 4:30p.m. in the ACC Auditorium. 
Interhall refereesfor basketball should plan 
'on attending a clinic either Wednesday or Thursday from 4:30 to 5:30 p.m. Referees should enter at Gate 1 of the ACC and meet in the interhall office. 
Saint Mary,' s studentsmay ~i~~ up th~ir 
Notre Dame basketball tickets at the Student Actlvttles Offtce in LeMans Hall from 8-5 p.m. according to the following schedule: seniors, Monday, Nov. 16; juniors, Tuesday, Nov. 17; sophomores, Wednesday, Nov. 18; and freshmen, Thursday, Nov. 19. Students must present an ID for each ticket and there is a limit of four IDs. 
Interhall hockeycaptains will meet today at 
4: 30 p.m. in the ACC auditorium next to the I nterhall Office. 
The Irish wrestlers finished sixth in a field of 
nine at the Biggie Munn Invitational Tournament at Michigan State University over the weekend. Individual third place finishers were Mark Fisher at 126 pounds, John Campanaat 150 pounds and Paul DeBaggis at 167 pounds. Mike Mills finished fourth at 142 pounds and Bob Davis took fifth at 118 pounds. 
• • . Victory 
(continued from page 8} 
give us any field position, es­pecially in the first half, and we gave them the ball twice inside our 11." 
Notre Dame's longest drive came in the fourth quarter and ate up more than six minutes. It started on the Irish 23 with 14:52left. Thanks to a couple of major Alabama penalties, an ef­fective quarterback delay by Kiel, and two swift sideline passes to split end Tony Hunter, the Irish found them­selves knocking on the door for the score that would have put the game out ofreach. 
leers
e e e 

(continued from page 8) 
at 16: 36 when Don Lucia found him alone in front of the net. Bjork put the puck into a half­open goal and made it 4-3 heading into the final period. 
Newberry forced the over­time with his third goal of the night at 13:51 of the final per­iod. 
IRISH ICINGS: Minnesota­Duluth provided a stunner this weekend with an 8-0, 6-4 sweep of Minnesota, the nation's No. 1 team, in Duluth. Elswhere, North Dakota swept Colorado College 8-7, 5-3 
Short runs by fullbacks John Sweeney and Pete Buchanan and by tailback Carter gave the Irish a fourth-and-goal at the one. After both teams called timeout, Devine opted to go for a field goal. 
"Obviously I thought 10 points would win it," said Devine. "Thatseemed to be the magic number at that time. We thought that would win it." 
Oliver's 18-yard field goal at­tempt was blocked by E.J. Junior after Oliver slipped on the wet turf while approaching the ball. 
Alabama had three more pos­s:essions to work with, but only one was the least bit threaten­ing. The Tide was in Notre Dame territory at the 37-yard line with 3:35 left, but on fourth-and-one linebacker Bob Crable stood up halfback Linnie Patrick for no gain. 
The loss dropped Alabama's 

record  to  8-2,  and  was  the  
fourth  time  the  Irish  have  
beaten  the  Tide  in  as  many  

encounters. 
"This was what college foot­ball is all about," said Devine. "A clean,hard-faught game be­tween twonreat teams from two gr'~at universities. To me it was a· ·lassie." 
• Defense 
(continued from page 8) 

anyone deep to receive the punt and held firm in their forma­tion. When Jones headed a­round right end, Crable and Company brought him down for a two-yard loss that gave the Irish possession. 
"Even though they came out in punt formation," said Crable, "they showed a few splits. They were really leaning forward, so we held in our defensive for­mation. We were ready for something." 
While Notre Dame's defense continued to turn away the Tide, the Irish offense managed to capitalize on a critical Ala­bama fumble in the second quarter for the game's only score. 
Phil Carter, who scored the touchdown from two yards out, paced the Irish ball-control at­tack with 84 yards in 31 carries. Freshman Blair Kiel went the distance at quarterback for Notre Dame, completing five of nine passes for 43 yards and punting nine times for an aver­age of 41.2 yards. 
Kiel admitted that he was quite uneasy prior to Saturday's kickoff. "I was very nervous," he said afterwards. "I woke up six times last night worrying. 
"But I'll sleep well tonight!" 

.. -... --·­--------· ·--·--------------------­Classifieds  ----­___.,_____ All c:lass!f,ed .uls must he rerervee1 t.v 4 .15 p m two days prtJr to the •:.~hP 1n '1"hrdl rtw .HI •<; wn The Obsenter olf,ce wdl accopc cl,turl,eds Mun,Liv thro~tqh FrH1.~-. 1 0 t)O .l,.,., 10 '> 00 D m A1l class1heds .,ust be IHt~·fhlul 1'1:!1~r ,,. IJt'rson ur through l"e •n,ul  
~----· N~ ride to Dayton lor Thanksgiving LOST IN LAFORllJNE LOBBY on 11/5, can leave Tuesday. Call Beth atLNOTICES J plano text and manila envelope. 277-8037. OVERSEAS JOBS · Summer/year Without envelope I won't graduate. N~ ride t~r 3 to BUFFALO,N.Y. lorround. Europe, S. Amer., Australia. PLEASEI Call Bob 233-2398. REWARD. T.G. Break. Will share $$ Call RichAsia. Allllelds. $500-$1200 monthly. LOST IN NORTH DINING HALL -BlueSightseeing. Free Info. Write: IJC, 1739 backpack with French texts. PleateBox 52-IN4, Corona Del Mar. Ca. Need ride to Massachutells orcalf Bob 233-2398. REWARD.92625. Connecticut area lor Thanksgiving UGLY DUCKLING RENT-A-CAR FOUND: Cosio calculator lett by break. Please call Mike, 11780. .. THANKSGIVING SPECIAL. 4 days, hitchhiker. Call Bob 232-0735. NEED RIDE TQ-FROM KANSAS CITY $39.95 wllh 200 free miles. Phone FOUND a girt'a while coal In AREA FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK. 255-2323 lor reservations. Pangborn social space alter party SHARE USUAL. CALL PAT AT 1592.---­.... Instant cash paid lor ladles' and on Nov. 7. Call 8410 to claim. WANTED DESPERATELVII TWO AIR men's clau rings. $20-$100 or LOST ­A PAIR OF GLASSES (GREY FORCE G.A OR STUDENTTICKETSII Will more. We make house calls. Also fRAME) WITH NAME AND HOME pay big bucksll Call 232-4257 Joe buying other gold Items. 255-2402. PHONE NUMBER ENGRAVED ON Original com8cty material needed PART llME JOB. Ideal tor Students. RIGHT TEMPLE PIECE. IF FOUND lor stand-up nightclub act. Contact Telephone work from our ottlce PLEASE CALL KEVIN AT 1022 ar Larry Karaszewskl at WNDU-TV 233­(Evening hours) Call Nancy 232­2253 ­I NEED THEM BADLY. 7111 or home 291-2773. 8956 LOST: Blue backpack outside ol FOR THE HOLIDAYS: SUPER HAIRCUTS. NEED RIDE TO SOUTH SUBURBS OFDillon on Halloween night. II found Also my special Hennalucent CHICAGO (TWO OF US) FOR THANKS­please call Jean at 4581. Reward. organic conditioner. Soft subtle GIVING WILL HELP PAY EXPENSES. highlights, and extra shine. CALL LUKE 4339 SATISfACTION GUARANTEED. Cut, Need someone to do color slideFOR RENTstyle. analysis only $7. Ladles tree printing lor me. Must be able to curling. ask anyone. Call KIM at print up Ia 8" by 10." Prices Armando's. 277-0615. Apt. tor rent.$50.00 month. Near negotiable. Call John at 3~~. school. Immediate. 233-1329 TYPING -Only $.55 a page. Call Ride needed to Cincinnati area lorDan. 272-5549. Wish to sublet 4 person NO apt. tar second semester. $90 each{month break. Call Mark at 3207. THE NEW JERSEY CLUB WILL BE plus share utilities. Secure; 10 RUNNING A XMAS BUS TO EAST JAIME minute walk to campus. Call 233­------­BRUNSWICK AND NYC. SIGN-UPS 2631 JAIME WILL BE ON MONDAY NOVEMBER 17 -------­AT 7 P.M. IN THE LAFORTUNE BALL­Need one girl to share NO apt. lor JAIME ROOM. second tem. $90 month. Call 234­JAIME 0233.THE NEW JERSEY CLUB WILL BE FOR STUDENT SENATE DISTRICT 1 RUNNING A XMAS BUS TO EAST FOR RENT. Basment ot house very DESPERATE! Need ride Ia MilwaukeeBRUNSWICK AND NYC. SIGH-UPS close to campus. Very comlorlablel lor ThanksgiVIng. Please call NancyWILL BE ON MONDAY NOVEMBER 17 Includes furnishings, priVate both at 7850.AT 7 P.M. IN THE LAFORTUNE BALL­and entry. Located In a nice hauteROOM. In a sale neighborhood. ReoJonable Far Ettecllve Representation. VOTE rent. Call 289-8651 alter 6.00. lor KATHLEEN KUCABA, OFF CAMPUS f FOR SALE NO Ave. 2 Bdrm. tum. apt w/slreetSENATOR. vtew 2-• people reasonai;IJe 234­Girl Scout Cookie orders will be 0821 1 united llckel, SBN to Fl. Lauderdale taken Tues. and Wed., Nov. 111-19 at vta Chicago lor X-mas break. $130 Lafortune from 1-•:30. Support a call6813. good cause. Eat a great cooldel WANTED HOME FOR SALE; ACROSS FROM ST. LOUIS RIDE LINE: CaN 3479 lor NOTRE DAME GOLF COURSE 2-STORY poulble arrangements. WANTED: RIDERS TO AND FROM 3 BEDROOM, FIREPLACE, FENCED WASHINGTON, D.C., OVER THANKS­Y.ARD IMMEDIATE POSSESSION HELEN GIVING BREAK. CALL RUVEN .AT 277­WOSTMANN 272-2789 ERA EQUITYILOST/FOUND J 8437. 256-0263  BOSTON ClUB Is havinga XMAS BUS.Two Sears8.25-14 snow tires. Call Bill Please. 1 need 2 GA tlx lor Air Force Details In a lew days.1154 game call Mary 41-4715 SOSU I really need 1 GA ticket to AF SUMMER PROGRAMS LONDON-ROME gome.Piease call Pal @ 4554 •• MAY-JUNE 1981 College CreditsTICKETS Available Meeting In Walsh Hall NEED 4 OR 6 GA TIX FOR AIR FORCE. Lounge 7:00 p.m., November 17 CALL 312/325-3105 COLLECT. also at 232 Moreau Hall 7:00 p.m.• AliForce GAs and Students needed November 18 SMC Call 6251 or 1040 Brooke, I'm pregnant. Love, Erica NEED 4AIR FORCE TICKETS. WILL PAY PERSONALS f TOP DOLLAR. CALL JOHN 1629. CONTRAGULATIONS TO THE 1980 CAMPUS SOCCER CHAMPSIIII THANKSNEED MANY STIJDENT TIX FOR AIR IIIIIIVOTE FRANK TIGHE FOR STUDENT FOR THE THRILLS OF VICTORY II guenFORCE ­BITZ. 233-2865. SENATEIIIIIIIIIIIIII . who? M-Y ROOMMATE WILL KILL ME IF I IIIIIIVOTE FRANK TIGHE FOR STUDENT Girl Scout Cookie orders will beDON'T COME UP WITH SOME GA OR SENATEIIIIIIIIIIIIII taken Tues. and Wed.. Nov 18-19 atSTUDENT AIR FORCE TICKETS. PLEASE THE NEW JERSEY CLUB IS RUNNING A LaFortune from f-4:3o. Support aCALL 4449 AND ASK FOR PAM OR XMAS BUS TO EAST BRUNSWICK AND good cause. Eat a great cooklel3283 AND ASK FOR CHRIS. NYC. SIGN-UPS WILL BE MONDAY La Goose, La Barch, et La Zada -NEED 2 AIR FORCE GAs CALL JIM @ NOVEMBER 17 AT 7 P.M. IN THE NYou're the Greatest! Thank-nyou8711 WORTUNE BALLROOM. tor everything. P.S. Barch, South Desperalely need many AIR FORCE DISTRICT 1: VOTE FOR EILEEN WIRLEY Bend Is still a cullural wasteland. llX -G.A or STUDENT.WIII pay TOP FOR STUDENT SENATE Leslie Can you believe your veryDOLLAR. Call KARL at 1579. THE NEW JERSEY CLUB IS RUNNING A own. Sorry II was so late. Nothing Please! 1need Air Force Tickets. Six XMAS BUS TO EAST BRUNSWICK AND original though. Just hang In there. together or two sets ol three. Call NYC. SIGN-UPS WILL BE MONDAY Love you know who LF. Mark Rust at 1715 or 233-5520 and NOVEMBER 17 AT 7 P.M. IN THE Dear Barb Brock, leave message. LAFORTUNE BALLROOM. Happy 20th birthday! I love you Need AIR FORCE Student and G.A. forever and ever.1 need someone to train with tor Tlx -PLEASE Call Mary Pal at 8091 Love.spring marathon. 7-7:~0 per mile. JakeCall ShannonMega need lor 3 Air Farce tickets. IIIVOTE FRANK TIGHE FOR STUDENTGA or student. Call Blll1154 Anne, have a FANTASTIC birthday! SENATEIIITaniaNEEDED: GA or student tickets lor Air IIIVOTE FRANK TIGHE FOR STUDENT Farce. Call Tom at 1652. DEAR DOUBLE-D: SENATEIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII You lett one ol your shoes In my1am In dire need ol only -ONE ­SOPHOMORES COME TO AN EVENING raam on the night ol the party, andUSC ticket. Please help me out. Call WITH "ET Al"l EASY LISTENING, FOOD I'm holding II tor ransom. You1213. ask tor Andre'. AND FUN IN LAFORTUNE BALLROOM. remember what II cost Cinderella? 8:00 PM ON WEDNESDAY. NOV. 19. For sale Student Basketball and ATTENTION BASKETBALL FANS! $1.25 llCKETS AVAILABLE FROM SOPH. Hockey Tickets. can 3320. Everyone Is Invited to attend the DORM REPS. PROCEEDS GO TO FR. TOOHEY MEMORIAL FUND.HELPIII I NEED FOUR GA'S OR TWO Celllc•Bulls game In Chicago Nov. PAIRS OF GA'S FOR AIR FORCE. CALL 18 Sign-up In LaFarl4ne Fri. and ONEILL FOR STUDENT SENATE DISTRICT 3245. Mon. at 7 pm Cost will be $15 Save a lllel Bleu me with 4 Air Force Praleulonal typing. Term papers, VOTE ONEILL FOR STUDENT SENATE GA's ($$$)1 Greg 2754 10 PM or later manuscripts, thesis. $Tar tree. $2 FOR CONCERN FOR DEDICATION page. Banon Services, '408 Elwood. FOR DISTRICT 1 FOR NOTRE DAMEHELP! NEED AIR FORCE · TIX 289-7949. iDESPERATElVIlli STUDENT OR GA' Sill Helly-Belly, Beautiful day! I wonder CALL LUKE 4339 ATTENTION SKIERS: N~ people lor what day Ills. I think ol you asln the Colorado Ski Trip at SPring Break. pub or on the moor. Merry Christmas CELTICS-BULLS TIJES IN CHICAGO TIX Call Doug 1721 or Kevin 162-4. and a Happy New Yeart Love,AVAILABLE SEE PERSONALS Mou,.BOSTON CLUB has tic~ left tor theFOR SALE 2 USC TIX CALL SEAN AT CELTICS BULLS game this Tu.._ Price Q: What do you call 1omeone who3184 II $15, Includes trans., flx, refresh. All wtll do anything lor money In the RESCUE MEl I need two Air Force ND/SMC Invited. Leaves 6:00. Call Yukon? llckelll Pleate can 289-8955 steve 146i or Mike 2836. A: .A mooMnaryf  


-


r 
'
t 
Monday, November 17, 1980-page 8 
,r Snorts 
7-0 victory 

Irish0\«come Alabama 
By Paul Mullaney Notre Dame, 246 yards to 192, Edttor-in-Chief the Tide was unable to enter Irish territory until the second­
BIRMINGHAM, Ala.-Paul to-last play ,fthe first half. And "Bear" Bryant just stood there, in th1 second Half, 'Barna could Coke in hand, forcing a smile. only g<>~ inside the Notre Dame His fifth-ranked Crimson Tide 35 one ~ilne. had just suffered a 7-0 loss to That was on the Tide's first sixth-ranked Notre Dame at drive of the third quarter, when Legion Field. freshman quarterback Walter 
"It is an understatement to Lewis drove the Crimson from say that the best team won," their own 26 to the Irish 20. On Bryant said. "We are just not· a fourth-and-three play, Peter used to playing against a team Kim missed a 3 7-yard field goal that strong." attempt 
Played before 78,873 fans, a Notre Dame controlled the national television audience, ball for more than34 minutes of and the largest press contingent the conte&t. The Irish b<>Jl-con­ever to cover a regular-season trol attack was working well game in the South, Saturday's enough thatKiel only had to hit 
victory gave the Irish of Coach tht: air nine t!mes, completing Dan Devine the opportunity to five for 43 yards. Also, whil~ face top-ranked and undefeated N0tre Dame never gained more Georgia in the Sugar Bowl on than 1 3 yards on any one play, New Year's Day, the Irish beat Alabama in the 
Alabama, meanwhile, ac­first down category, 14-10. cepted a bid to play Southwest "Our game plan consisted of 
By Paul Mullaney Now there is only one thing But that wasn't the case 
Conference champ Baylor in running hard at them and Editor-in-Chief Bryant has ·yet to do -beat Saturday. The Irish defense,the Cotton Bowl. getting into the holes quicker Notre Dame. which was ranked fifth nation­Notre Dame, now 8-0-1, than they could fill them up," BIRMINGHAM, Ala Bryant's teams have been ally, scored its most impressivetallied Saturday's only score in said Scully. "I think our backs . -Prior to Saturday's game shut out four times over the performance to date, stoppingthe second quarter following an did a good job in getting to the with Notre Dame, there were years, the only one at home the Alabama wishbone in the 7­Alabama double-turnover. holes quick." 
two things Paul "Bear" Bryant being a 0-0 tie against Vander­0 Irish win. 
With the ball on the 'Barna 12 Bryant gave a much more had never done during his 23 bilt in 1958, Bryant's first year "That's the greatest honor after a Blair Kiel punt, Tide simplistic reason for Notre years at the Alabama football at 'Barna. Whether playing here for our defense," said Irish line­quarterback DonJacobs missed Dame's ability to control the helm. at Legion Field or at Bryant­backer Bob Crable about hand­handoff connections with full­line of scrimmage. "We were He had never beaten the Denny Stadium on the Tusca­ing a Bryant team a shutout at back Charley Williams, fumb­more charitable than they Irish, having lost three previous loosa campus (both are home home for the first time. "Es­ling into the hands oflrish end were," he mused. "They didn't encounters, and he had never fields), the Crimson Tide seems pecially since I wasn't born yetJohn Hankerd. 
(continued on page 7) lost by a shutout on home turf. to always score in bunches. when 'The Bear' first came Six plays later and just one here." 
yard from paydirt, however, Crable, who led Notre Dame Kiel fumbled John Scully's with nine unassisted tackles,
.500on season
snap, and Alabama middle continued, "As a team we guard Warren Lyles recovered. 
played the best game we played
"I thought I had blown a big 
all year. We don't have a long
Irish split with Badgers
opportunity by fumbling down way to go."
there," said Kiel. "But when I If Saturday's performancegot to the sideline my team­by Brian Beglane time victory, Smith's players saves when he had to, but he did was any indication, Crable maymates told me to shake it off." Sports Writer may have takenhim too literally not receive quite the pressure well be right. The Irish defense Kiel wasn't on the sideline for Saturday. McNamara faced. Ed Lebler has not allowed a touchdown in long, though. He was given MADISON, Wis. -When "We took too many chances opened the scoring for Wis­the last 20 quarters, and has another opportunity to punch Notre Dame hockey coach defensively," said Smith follow­consin at 3:03 ofthe first period given up only nine points dur­it home two plays later when . Lefty Smith was looking ahead ing Saturday's 4-0 Wisconsin when he took a pass right out in ing that five-game span.
Jacobs fumbled a snap. Irish end towards a month of road play triumph. "Wegotburnedandit front of McNamara and picked While Saturday's contest left Scott Zettek recovered at the for his team, he felt the Irish ;;ost us. That's how they scored out the upper left corner fora 1­Bryant with little to say, he did Alabama four. would be okay if they came out ·their goals." 0 lead. 
admit that "we didn't establish Irish tailback Phil Carter of their travels with a .500 The split puts the Irish in a tie Scott Lecy made it 2-0 at anything offensively. And that's dove into the end zone two record. for sixth place in the WCHA 13:58 ofthe second period with because they didn't let us. We plays later from the two and Well, the travel ended this heading into this weekend's a breakway goal which was set got beat by a bigger and better placekicker Harry Oliver con­weekend here at the Dane league home opener at the ACC up by his brother, Todd. The
, team. We're not used to playing
verted from placement to open Coliseum and Notre Dame, against Michigan Tech. Wis­Irish unloaded 25 shots over the against people that strong."
and close the scoring with 6:02 indeed, has a 5-5 overall record consin is now 8-2 overall and is first two periods. 
Alabama did manage 246~ left in the half. and a 3-3 Western Collegiate tied for fourth in the league Theran Welsh put the game 
i 
total but All Notre Dame had to do Hockey Association mark. But with a 4-2 record. out of reach in the third period yards, they were 
spread out throughout the 
from that point was to exercise after a promising start for the Wisconsin freshman goalie at 13: 10 and Scott Lecy capped game. The only semblence of a its ball-control, field-position Irish against the Wisconsin Terry Kleisinger, stopping 33 the evening at 16:52 with his legitimate 'Barna drive came
Badgers-the nation's No. 2 shots Saturday, shut out Notre second goal of the night.
game plan. And that they did. 
early in the third quarter when 
AlthoughAlabamaoutgained team-Friday with a 5-4 over-Dame for the first time since Friday's game was a seesaw the Tide marched from its own~ 
Mar. 2, 1979 when the same battle throughout. Badger 26-yard line to the Notre Dame
I 
Badgers blanked the Irish 2-0. freshman John Newberry in­20.
His counterpart for the Irish, flicted most of the damage on When the Irish defense stif­
Players of the Game 
sophomore Bob McNamara, McNamara with his first career 
fened at the 20, setting up afaced five breakaways and came hat trick while three of Notre fourth-and-three situation,up with the big saves on all but Dame's five goals were scored Peter Kim was called upon toone of them. He finished the by defensemen. 
attempt a 3 7-yard field goal.
game with 42 saves, the third Newberry gave Wisconsin a Kim hit a flutter ball that diedtime in four WCHA appear­1-0 lead at 10:24 of the first 
to the right side, and the Irish
ances he has been called on for period, but John Schmidt an­kept their 7-0 lead. 
more than 40 saves. swered back at 13:15 for a 1-1 As Notre Dame defensive"In all my years here I never score. Lexi Doner gave the coordinator Joe Yonto said,saw so many lone breaks by a Badgers a 2-1 lead with a power 
"When we had to stop them, we
Wisconsin team," said Badger play goal at 17:18. 
stopped them."

Coach Bob Johnson. "It was JeffLogan tied the score, 2-2, The Irish also held firm on alike their goalie (McNamara) at 9:44 with a power play goal. 
was saying, 'come on, try it Newberry scored his second of key play in the opening of the again.' The guys were coming the night just 48 seconds later fourth quarter. Alabama, on the back to the bench shaking their to regain the lead for the Notre Dame 35-yard line with 
Badgers, 3-2. fourth down and two, sent in
heads." 

punter Woody Umphrey. After
0ffensive Player ofthe Game­Defensive Player ofthe Game -While McNamara received Jeff Brownschidle evened 
initially lining up deep as if to
Phil Carter, who returned to Tri-captain Bob Crable, the little support from the Notre things at 14:20 with an unas­the Irish line-up as a regular Irish lineman who was ac­Dame blue line contingent, the sisted goal. He skated all the punt, Umphrey ran up under and rushed 31 times for a net credited with nine unassisted Irish offense continued its sub­way from his own zone and beat center to take the snap and 
pitched out to halfback Joe
gain of 84 yards and one tackles and two assists. Hon­par performance. Gremore with a 35-foot slap­touchdown. Honorable Men­orable Mention-Scott Zettek "We could not beg, borrow shot. Kirt Bjork gave Notre Jones. firm-Blair Kiel and John and Dave Duerson. or steal a goal," said Smith. Dame its first lead of the night The Irish defense hadn't sent 

PhhtJ Car~er plu.nges over the goa/line behind the blocking ofcenterjohn Scully for Notre Dame's only touc aown m thetr 7-0 defeat ofAlabama.(photo by Phillrpjohnson) 
Defense proves decisive in victory 
Scully. Kleisinger came up with the (continued on page 7: (continued on page 7) 
I -­








