• • . Phillies -page 7 

VOL.XV,N0.39 MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1980
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
--------~~~~~~~ --------------
Hiler takes on 

BradetnaS 
. 
Conservative Republican John Hiler has been selected for the unenviable task of trying to unseat House Majority Whip John Brademas in his bid for a 12th term as representative of Indiana's 3rd District. He was interviewed recently by Observer Executive News Editor Tom 
Jackman. 

Q: You've .been asked this a hun­dred times, but why should people in this district vote against John Brademas, the third most powerful man in the House? What can you do that he can't? 
A: I think we have to look at the record of what's been going on here in the Third· District. We have approximately 12.5 percent unemployment, this is over 50 percent higher than in the rest of the country. We are an economically blighted dis­trict. You look at the city of South Bend, which lost almost 16 percent of its population in the decade of the 70s. Elkhart County has an unemployment rate of about 15.6 percent today. This district is not on sound footing today. I think that the problem has been with the leadership in Washington that has led us to the economic problems that we face today, that really affect a district like the Third District of Indiana. With leadership comes .respon­sibility, it's not a Congressman who was elected for the first time two years ago who's re­sponsible for the mess we're in: they've been working as well as possible, paying their taxes. The problem has been with the leadership in Washington. John Brademas is one of those lead­ers, and it's time for a change. It's time to bring some new leadership in, who will hope­fully bring in some new solu­tions. 
Q: Do you feel john Brademas is personally responsible for high un­employment in this area, and around the country? 
A: John Brademas is one of the leaders in Congress, cer­tainly. 
Q: How can you improve the unemployment problem here? 
A: I think what we need are some innovative solutions for our economy. I'm very much in support of the Kemp-Roth tax plan, which essentially calls for a ten percent Ct\t in the mar­ginal tax rates over each of the next three years. It calls for 
(conti11ued on page 4) 


t

Muskie calls for 

SALT IT ratification 
By La•tra L. Larimore speeches." Senior Staff Reporter . "The Soviets will no more allow us to gain such a position 
Secreu.ry ofState EdmundS. than we will allow it to them. A Muskie spoke Saturday morn­search for superiority would ing to an overflow crowd in simply crt-;ate a massive, dan­
. ..

Washington Hall. Calling for gerous, expenstve, new arms SALT II ratification, he stressed race," Muskie continued. the importance of working to­"Peace lies in maintaining a gether with the Soviet Union prudent balance." for world peace. The Secretarj counseled that 
Muskie emphasized the ef­the ratification of SALT II forts the Carter administration would be the aim of any "pru­has exerted to modernize Am­dent person", pointing to a­erican defense systemsthe nother Carter-Reagan disagree­Trident submarine, the MX ment. He stated that the Ad­missile, and other advanced ministration would work for weapon technology-and stated ratification of the treaty "a~­that U.S. and allied military soon as possible next year" forces "are a match for any ad­after the elections and the versary or combination of ad­"lame duck" session of Con­versaries." gress.
He then, however, warned of The Israeli-Egyptian peace, the impossibility ofrecapturing negotiated by Carter at Camp military superiority over the David, ~as cited by Muskie as an 
Soviet Union. Although never important advance towards mentioning the name, Muskie world peace. He also men­alluded to Presidential hopeful tioned Carter's position in the Ronald Reagan when he ob­American policy towards
Secretary ofState Edmund Mmkie spoke to a capacity crowd Saturday 
served: "such superiority (over Rhodesia.
morning in Washington Hall.(photo by john Macor) 
the Soviets) may sound grand in Said Muskie: "Despite the pressures in this country to support the minority regime 
there, resident Carter held firm for a settlement based on free elections and racial justice." 
In conclusion, Muskie defin­

NDLegend 

YOose'ends 31-yearreignasAD 
ed peace as something "hard, fragile, and a human condi­

bv Paul iWullttn('l' 
tion." He stressed its connec­

-i:tlitor-111-( .hie/ 
Rumors regarding Krause's retirement have tion with that of "tangible hu­
Edward W. (Moose) Krause ended years of · been circulating for a number of years. ''1-really man progress".speculation Friday by announcing his resigna­wanted to retire three years ago," Krause said. The Secretary was introduced tion as Notre Dame's athletic director, effective "I've been here as athletic director since 1949. by House Majority Whip John January 1. It's been a long career, and I felt it was time for Brademas (D., Ind.). Other 
Krause, who admittedly was contemplating me to step out and let a younger fellow step in to platform guests included Fr. retirement "for over three years now," made the take my job. Theodore Hesburgh, President announcement following Friday's Quarterback "I've been worried about my wife (Elizabeth) of the University, Dean Club luncheon at the ACC. and her health. That's something I've been Thomas P. Bergin of Continu­
Notre Dame's athletic director for over 31 worried about for a long tim_e. Now I feel I'll be ing Education, and Edmund A. years, Krause said that Executive Vice-President able to do more things for my lady-have a little Chairman the
Stephan, of Fr. Edmund P.Joyce "has appointed me Athletic time for her." 

Board of Trustees. 

Director Emeritus after January 1. I will act as Krause indicated that he will remain some­Athletic Director until that time." what active as athletic director emeritus. He also indicated that there was no specific "I think I'll be a consultant of sorts," he said. reson for making the announcement at this "In other words, I'm not leaving entirely. I won't 
Fr. Toohey

time. just start fishing or playing golf all the time, The Ob.rerver lear.ned Friday, however, that the although I will take time for those sports that I'm announcement was prompted by news leaks interested in. 
''verygrave ' ' 

from Charlottesville, Va., naming current "In fact, right now we're talking about a big 
Virginia Athletic Director Gene Corrigan as drive for the Monogram men to get them more Fr. William Toohev, director Krause's replacement. involved with the University. Speaking engage­ofCampus Ministry ~as listed in Joyce, who will appoint the new athletic ments will certainly be something that I'll con­"very grave" condition as of director, has been unavailable for comment. sider." 3:1Oa.m .• according to a St. 
Corrigan, reached Friday in his Charlottesville A native ofChicago's Back of the Yards neigh­Joesph's Hospital spokes_man.office, refused comment on the situation. borhood, Krause played tackle on Notre Dame Toohey, ·who is suffering· football teams of 1 9 31, '32 and' 3 3, and played in from encephalitis, underwent 
The Observer has learned, however, ·that the first College All-Star football game. surgery las_t Monday night to Corrigan privately told several athletic officials He was equally known for his accomplish­relieve intracranial pressure on in the Atlantic Coast area that he has accepted ments as center on the Irish basketball squad. It the brain which is associated Notre Dame's offer. has been said that the three-second lane was with the disease. Doctors are It was also learned that Corrigan visited Notre conceived as a way to control him. He wa.s still uncertain as to whv the Dame Tuesday of last week. He also was in inducted into the National Basketball Hall of pries~ fell ill, ho_wever they are attendance for Notre Dame's season-opening Fame in April of 1976. certam that thts type of en­cephalitis is not the common
victory over Purdue. Krause graduated cum laude with a degree in varietv spread by mosquitos.
Corrigan, a 53-year-old graduate of Duke journalism in 1934. He then served in the ca­Earlier in the week, Toohey'sUniversity, has served as Virginia's athletic di­pacities of basketball and football coaches at vital statistics showed signs ofrector since 1971. He is considered a solid Saint Mary's College in Winona, Minn., and at stabil=zation, however, towardsbusinessman by his peer!:, and at Virginia has Holy Cross. 
Friday afternoon, the priestshown a determined effort to improve the status He returned to Notre Dame in 1942 and failed to respond to treatment 

of women's athletics. served as an assistant on Frank Leahy's football and his condition deteriorated 
Krause indicated that "at this time I have no staffand on George Keogan's basketball staff. A rapidly. idea who the new man will be. The advice I would year later, he assumed the head basketball job During his ten-year term as have is that he better be a business man. In the due to Koegan's death. He served in that director of Campus Ministry, sports world at the collegiate level, they're going capacity for six seasons. Fr. Toohey has enriched the to have to think about ways to bring in revenue Krause was named assistant to athletic di­lives of manv who are now to s-upport expanding programs. Many schools rector Leahy in 1948, and was elevated to his showing thei( appreciation in are in financial trouble right now." current position a year later. many ways. 



News Brie/§ 
A bomb exploded in a car 
vesterday outside the Turk1sh mission to the United Nations. Five people were injured and several buildings were damaged, police reported. Pieces of the car were thrown several blocks away from the explosion site on U.N. Plaza. In Los Angeles, The Associated Press received an anonymous call in which a man claimed a group called the "Armenian 
Justice Committee" was responsible for the New York explosion and for one in Los Angeles. It was not immediate clear if the Los Angeles explosion, at a downtown building, was caused by a bomb or by a natural gas leak. One other vehicle was extensively damaged in the New York explosion and many windows in several surrounding buildings were blown out. The buildings also suffered "extensive exterior damage," police said. -AP 
Despite some blunders the govern­ment has found homes for 90 percent of the 125,000 Cubans who came to America as part of the "Freedom Flotilla.'' Now the Carter administration is working to overcome any bad feelings their arrival created. Fiy_e months after ~he C~bans began crossing from Havana to Key West, Fla., m an 1llegal ~ealift endorsed by Cuban President Fidel Castro, about 12,000 Cubans, mostly single males with no U.S. relatives, no kn.ow­ledge of English and few skills, remain in ~ederal detentwn. Those still in the camps have been charactenzed as the hardest to settle. Federal officials are relying extensively on volunteer groups, including churches, to find sponsors. "It's going to take some time and it'sgoing to take money, probably more than the (government's normal) resettlement grant," said Gerald Doyle of the U.S. Catholic Conference.-AP 
New earth tremors shook the 
ruined buildings of AI Asnam, Algeria yesterday, raising fears for the safety of rescuers digging frantically through debris to reach hundreds of victims still showing signs of life 48 hours after an earthquake devastated the city. The president of the Red Crescent relieforganization, Moulo!ld Belaouane, said the death toll from the Friday quake could well exceed his earlier estimate of 20,000. A big international rescue and relief operation was in motion, and in every city Algerians set up donation points for food and supplies. Thou~ands lined up at hospitals ~nd first-aid centers to donate blood -so many that Algiers had to call a temporary halt to donations there because it could not handle them all. The rescue continued by floodlight throughout the night in this city located on a fault line 150 miles east ofAlgiers. Thousands of survivors moved to the outskirts of the city and slept in improvised camps or in the open. Only the luckier ones had army tents. -AP 
President Bani-Sadr of Iran claimed Iraq has used up all its reserve forces in the Persian Gulfwar and ~aid Iran's strategy is to wear down the invaders before counter­attacking. In an exclusive telephone interviewwith The Associated Press, Bani-Sadr also said Iran would only consider negotiations for a cease-fire after Iraq withdrew its forces and pledged not to interfere in Iran's affairs. The interview was conducted in the Farsi language and translated into English by AP. In the wide­ranging, 20-minute interview Saturday night, Bani-Sadr also said: The gulf war had probably delayed action by the Iranian Parliament on the 52 American hostages held captive since Nov. 4. He said parliament may add new conditions for their freedom. Iran would "strike militarily" against any Arab state giving military support to Iraq but denied Iran would blow up gulf oil fields. Libya, Syria and Algeria now back Tehran's war <:{fort, but Iran is receiving no material support from those countries. Some spare parts for the U.S.-equipped military are being bought from unspecified world markets. -AP 
..

.. 
• 
A 761-ft crude oil tanker with 32 people aboard caught fire yesterday in the Gulf of Mexico about 200 miles south of New Orleans, the Coast Guard said. The tanker Sea Royal, registered in Singapore, notified the Coast Guard there was a fire in the engine room, and that the area was sealed offto prevent the fire from spreading, said Coast Guard spokesman Doug Bandos. "The vessel is dead in the .vater, and the fire is in the engine room which is about 16 feet aw.ty from the cargo hold. We have lost communications with them," he said. There were no immediate reports of injury, Bandos·said. Bandos said two CoastGuard airplanes were at the -.cene but were unable to contact the ship. The 468-foot tanker Espoir was en route to the ship, he said. The Sea Royal was hound for Galveston, with an undetermined amount ofcrude 
•1il aboard, he said. -AP 
Sunny and very cooltodaywithhighsin the mid 50s. Mostly clear and notas cold tonightwith lows in the mid to upper 30s. Partly sunny and a little warmer Tuesday with highs in the low 60s. -AP 
~--------------.____________.____~·~·~·~·~·~ ~~~--~~-. 
.. .. 
~-~-~ ---------------------~---------­
Monday, October 13, 1980 -page 2 
Inside Monday 


Postscriptfrom Stratford 
It was one of those rare chances that onlv being a student can offer. A weekend spent i~ Stratford, watching plays by Shakespeare in the company of the English Dept. What more could and English major ask for? I don't think you could get many chances like this after college. Places like the Stratford Festival are very ac­comodating to students. There seems to be an aura around us ofscholarly poverty (with tuition costs, who isn't scholarly poor?) that cries out for reduced rates. Its a great advantage t:D be a student and visit Stratford and watch Shakes­peare performed on stage. 
Just getting away for a weekend is great. You can forget about books and tests for a day or two. On this trip, the only book you saw was a Pelican or Riverside edition as some of us brushed up on the plays we were going to see. Even the profs didn't get many papers checked. 
There's n difference between viewing some­thing like a play or a piece of architecture, that a textbook just can't bring out. You can read about it all, but you feel it when you are there. 


Being a senior, this was my last chance to take such a trip with the department that I've spent four years of learning with. I thought about that as I watched the last play. At first I thought this would be mv last time to see Stratford. So I lot.Jked at everything carefully, taking a re­membrance. Then I ran into some friends from home. Unexpected pleasure. Virginia and Mary had made plans to see these plays for nearly nine months they told me. Great, I thought, maybe I'll still be able to get here again someday. 
But I know it won't be the same again. As students arrangements had been made for us on Saturday morning to talk with one of the actors from "Much Ado About Nothing" backstage. He answered all the questions we had about performing for the Shakespear Festival, and Stratford. I wonder if you get a chance like that when you are no longer a student? Of course maybe if you're and English prof...But, still, what about the time spent on the bus, talking with the other students and the profs on every­thing you just saw? Going <Jver the details on the acting and the plot. Studying the textbooks prepares you for what you encounter on such a 
· ltvj:11 l:tfttor.............. . Mike 1\lonk •h'Jl!fll AHt,.ftlllf.!......... l\lonk•t G uglt:: Ron Havnt·s .V;/f./Jt T,,d,nllitlll ....... Richard Fis~ht·r .Vew.r J:tlitor .............. Pam Dt:gn;tn r ·,,Pr F:tlit''' ... ............. Kim Parvnt Sport< r:opt· J:ditor ....... Beth Huffman T!'fiiJt.r .•.. Linda Hvwitt;Bvth Huffman Srrtt·m.r tedmii/(/Jl .......... Steve brown N:J '>t~v l:'tlitor ......... Bob Bernowski SM< !J~'Y h:litor ........ Eileen Murph~· Ad ;Jt,i/f.Jl ............·... \1(' oody & Co. !'/"''".~ rt~pl~t-r . ............ R.u:hd Blount (;lfnl Appt•tlfflllet·o. ...... Marl!art:t K ru><· MM)!it: Brassil Rv.tn VerBerknwt·s:Brun· Sprin)!stt·en  
The Obsarver (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obsarver is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box a. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

Margie 

Brassil 


trip. But it's really the chance of talkin2 with 
people who love the subject and k11orv about it 
that really helps you learn. 
No, it probably won't be the same again. But, then you have to think, you really don't forget all you learned in four years. And when you go to see Shakespeare, or whatever, again. it must all come back. But it's good, while you're here, and have the chance, to go and sit through a couple of plays with your fellow students._ And look around the town, stopping at the gift shops for postcards to mail home to friends who don't get much mail. 
Just walking around Stratford, even though it was co~d and misty, was peaceful. It's a quiet small City that seems to be centered around the theatre. Not just because every, shop window carries a sifn saying "Shakespeare Festival," but the core o the town is the theatre, and everyone believes in it. · · 
I took a backwards look as I was leavmg,at the stage on which the bard's plays are performed some nine months of the year And I thought, ifl ever come again, I'll probabh.i have to review mv notes from m_v junior year Shakespeare class so·I remember what it is I will be seeing. But, at least I'll'hve the notes. · 
Ah, yes. Stratford and Shakespeare. Some­thing no English major should miss in college. Sometimes it's just the chance of getting away and seeing what you are studying in a different light. More than the textbooks. More than lec­tures. It's travelling with people who share the same interest, and talking with your profs and fellow students about it on the bus afterwards. It's a chance you can get when you're still a student, and still studying. 
Observer Notes 
A~ a public service, The Observer publishes short press_ releases, better known as blurbs, submitted by campus and local organizations. All blurbs must be turned in no later than 1 
p.m. ofthe afternoon prior to publication, and they must be typed, double-spaced, or they will not he accepted. Blurbs, unfortunateiy, are not guaranteed publication, and are run only on a space available, priority system as designated by the news editors. We remind that Tlw Oh.ren,.er alone should not be relied upon to publicize events-to ensure some mention of your event, submit a separatl' entry to tht: On Campus Today section of the paper. 
Tired of Complaints? 


Want Action? 
Cast Your Vote for the STUDENT VOICE 

Vote ''YES'' on OCtober 14 
Pass the New Constitution! 
_______________________________._.____.______________.......,...____,__ 
------·----------··---------------­
The Observer Monday, October 13, 1980 -page 3 
Worldtoosmall? 


Terrienminimizes population problem 
by Michael Mader Staff Reporter 

Declaring that couples should not decide against having children due to the problem of popula­tion, Conrad Terrien lectured on "The Myth of Overpopulation" to an audience of 70 Thursday night in the Library Auditorium. 
"So many, many people have refrained patriotically from having children that it breaks my heart to set: them do it without knowing the real facts." Terrien asserted, \\'hile claiming that population is not a factor in major world problems. 
In order to support his state­ments, Te{rien explored population density, pollution, the energy crisis and starvation in the world. Despite criticisms and objections from the audience, Terrien contended that popula­tion played an insignificant role in the world. 
Holland and Belgium, with population densities of 900 (individuals per square mile), and Japan with a density of 700, do not consider themselves over­crowded and can produce enough food to sustain their people, Terrien said. On the other hand, China and India, countries tmditionally considered overpopulated and underfed, have densities of approximately 400. 
Noting that "the lakes and streams oftoday are much, much cleaner than they were in 1968," 
Gilligan , Hesburgh join in cheerfor Common Cause 
By Mikl' O'Hrien 

Local members of Common Cause, a citizens' lobby group founded in 1970 bv former Secretary ofHEWJohri Gardner, celebrated the organization's tenth anniversa'ry yesterday by hearing speeches from University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, and White Professor of Law John]. Gilligan. 
In opening the birthday program, Hesburgh reviewed the brief history of Common Cause and cited the ending ofthe Vietnam War as one ofthe major accomplishments of the group. Calling the protests against the war one of the few times in history that "young people t:ducated their elders," he said that the direct pressure Common Cause placed on legislators laid the foundation for ending thF: conflict by cutting back it~ appropriations. 
Hesburgh listed open meeting laws, accountability in both federal and local governments, limitation of lobby and special interest group powers, and election-spending reform laws as 
other  noteworthy  results  of  
Common Cause efforts.  
Hesburgh  stated  that  the  

primary reasons for the effective­ness ofCommonCause are th1t it 
Terrien said that clean-up efforts by engineers far outdistance pol­lution output of the world's citizens.· 
"There is indeed an energy problem, but it has nothing to do with the population," Terrien observed. "It is a political, en­gineering, distribution problem because petroleum is too valuable and useful in other industries. We ought to thank the Arabs, instead of damning them, for jolting us into this recognition." 
Terrien also stated that star­vation is not due to over­
population.  He  noted  that  in  
most  years,  India  has  had  a  
surplus export of food.  

When asked why we so often hear of and see starving Indians, Terrien replied, "It'sa distibution . problem. There are people starving in Appalachia. There are people starving in South Bend. And I knolll people are starving in Chicago." 
Throughout the talk, Terrien used his blackboard often, draw­ing graphs and listing statistics. He also encouraged questions throughout the lecture, though at times he would cut off the questioner or postpone the answer until later in the lecture. 
The vocal audience questioned Terrien for 15 minutes con· tinuously-three separate times. Each time, Terrien dominated the debate, mostly due to his microphone and preparation for all the traditional arguments 
offers citizens an opportunity to take action in issues impacting their lives, and that it is totally operated by volunteers. 
Gilligan, a former governor of Ohio addressing the future of Common Cause, said the coming decade will be a critical period of recruitment, reinvigoration, and re-expression for the group. 
According to the former governor, national membership in Common Cause has dropped within the last five years. He added, however, that 84 percent of members re-enlist organization, and challenge for Common Cause is to expand that base. 
Elaborating on Hesburgh's statements, Gilligan said the group faces additional hurdles in its struggle to improve local governmental ability. He stated that all fifty states currently laws forbidding closed meetings. 
Finally, Gilligan that Common Cause could piay a key role in emphasizing positive actions of government officials and citizens. cluded his remarks to the group by reminding them of the motto of Common Cause: person can make work again. 

Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46.5.56 
Managing Editor ................. Mark Rust
The Obseroer is an independent newspaper published by the srudems of the 
Edtiorials Edtior .............. Mike Onufrak
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. Ir does nor necessarily 
Senior Copy Edrlor.: ........... Lynne Daley 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reponed 
Executive News Edrtor ........ TomJackman
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a 
News Edtior .................. Pam Degnan
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views SMC Executive Edtior ......... Margie Brassil 
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC News Edrior ............. Mary Leavitt 

posited. 
While not insisting that all couples in the United States should have large families, Terrien did suggest that a baby boom now wouldn't h.urt, but would help instead. "We have the food, we have the resources, and we will have the energy to sustain a population twice our size," Terrien said. "We're running out of kids. In a few years the United States and Europe will have lost vigo:t;, and dynamism due to the lack of youth as a driving force of enthusiasm," Terrien concluded. 
Henriot 

plans lecture 
Joh'! Scully .e.rcapes from the press/Ires and tensions ofthe grtdiron by playmg dassrcal mzmc on thepiallo. For another stdeofSmlly, seepage ?.(photo by Rachel Blount) ­
Rev. Peter Henriot, SJ Di­rector of the Center of Con­cern, Washington, D.C. will lecture on "Global Ju~tice in the 1980's: Current Failures, 
ASK THEM WHY 
Future Possibilities," on Tues­day, Oct. 14 at 4pm in the Hayes-Healy Aud. 
A well known author and lecturer in social analysis, Fr. Henriot has been with the Cen­ter of Concern since its found­ing in 1971. Prior to that time he was Visiting Associate at the 
Joint Center for Urban Studies ofM.I.T.-Harvard and taught at a number of institutions in­cluding Seattle U., U of San Francisco, Boston College & Gonzaga U. Fr. Henriot's lec­ture is sponsored by the Center for Experiential Learning. 
Ask VISTA vohmteers why they work a year with residents of Chicago's Westside t~ set UJJ community greenhouses. They'll
ROCCOS 

probably say they're concerned for Ameril'a' spoor, they want to 
men's and women's 

be involved in social change and help people leam to be 

I
advocates for resourses and services they need. Ask them:

hairstyling 

Iat 

Register Now at Placement I 
comfortable prices 

Office for Interviews: ~ . I I
531 N. Michigan 

1

233-4957 

Vied. & Thurs. Oct. 29-30 iJSTA 
I I I 
1 
I I 
1 




Features Edtior •.............. Molly Woulfe Photo Editor................... .John Macer 
BusineSJ Manager .............. Greg Hedges Controller ....................... .Jim Rudd Advertisrflg Manager .............. Mark Ellis Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . Beth Hackett Production Manager .......... .John McGrath 
'·' 

The Observer Monday, October 13, 1980 -page 4 
Take A Hike 





Outdoors in the Ozarks 
byJim Drinkard Associated Press Wrt"fer 
From bluffs 250 feet high, hikers look down on the Cur­rent River winding its way through an Ozarks gorge. Looking up, they see ridge upon ridge of mountains fading into the haze 50 miles away. 
The scene is as old as the well­wo.rn hills, hut the vantage.
pomt is brana new; 1t is part 'Ot the young and growing Ozark Trail. <t planned 500-mile path which recreation officials tiope will dr<tW hikers from across the Midwe.;t. 

Until now, the region has had nothing to compare with the famous Appalacl-}ian Trc.il that winds fro'm Maine to Georgia, or the scenic Pacific Crest Trail on the West Coast. Midwestern hiking has been confined to 
shorter trails, good for a day or two of backpacking. 
In the early 1970s, a few peo­ple recognized the potential of a patchy band ofpublicly owned land stretching from south of St. Louis through the Missouri Ozarks into Arkansas and al­most to 0 klahoma. Much ofthe land is in national forests, parks and state conservation areas, and it includes the only ex­tensive elevated area bt:tween the Appalachians and the Rockies. 
One of those people was Fred Lafser, now head of the Mis­souri Department of Natural Resources. He organized the Ozark Trail Council about five years ago, pulling together a loose coalition of representa­tives from the Sierra Club, the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts and federal and state agencies. 
To date, the council has over" seen construction of80 miles of trail in Missouri. Arkansas has completed 100 miles, and the 
U.S. Forest Service has 140 miles of trail in the beginning stages. 
The trail cuts across steep hillsides, runs along wooded ridgetops, climbs through rocky outcroppings and mean­ders through meadows. Forests are mostly hickory, oak, maple and pine. Deer and wild turkeys abound in some areas. 
The Ozarks scenery is the main attraction, but its beauty is on a different scale than that of eastern or western moun­tains. The highest point in the Ozarks-Magazine Mountain in Arkansas -reaches only 2,823 feet. 
"There's no question. that this trail will draw people from Chicago, from Texas, and from all over the Midwest," said AI Schneider, the only full-time trail coordinator. Schneider, who left a junior college teach­ing job in St. Louis for the Ozarks, describes himself as a cheerleader for the trail. 

The biggest computer show ever held in this area is ready to take place. Over $50 million worth of 
software and hardware for business, industry, government, education, home and personal use will be featured in 100,000 square feet of display space. 
Computers costing $150 to $250,000, including mini and micro computers, data and word processing equipment, telecommunications, office machines, electronic typewriters, peripheral equipment and services will all be on display and for sale. 
All the major names like IBM, Radio Shack, Apple and Pet will be there, plus robots, computerized video games, computer art and computer music to entertain, enthrall and educate kids, spouses, and people who don't know a program from a memory disk. Don't miss the coming of the computers. Show up for the show. \. Admission: $5. Children under 12:$2. with adult. 
--·---------!!f!!lll81111!!!!~
--·-----. -----­
------·----­
--·------·-----­
--·-----w w --­
------·-----·--­
------·-.---. --·----­
=====-= :==-:-: ~=-== === 
---------. --·-., w
McCORMICK PLACE 
Schoessling Hall• 23rd &the Lake 
Parking for 10,000 cars or use CTA 
THURSDAY-SUNDAY, OCTOBER 16-19 
12 Noon to 10 PM Thurs.-Sat. • 11 AM to 6 PM Sun. Produced by Nat1onal Computer Shows • (617) 739-2000 

Saturday's victory brought smiles to every01ze, but none equaled the charm or beauty of Patty·s.(photo by john Macor) 
(continued/rom page 1) 
accelerated depreciation for business, reducing the level of government spending as a per­centage of the Gross National Product, from the 23 percent it 


SPECIAL 

CT.16,17 
From ND CIRCLE 
To 
CHICAGO O'HARE 


EXPRESS! 
Depts 6:45 a.m. ircle 12:15 p.m. 
Arr. 10:00 a.m. 0'Hare 3:30 p.m. To Your Individual Airline Gate 
Return 
Dept 10:55 a.m. O'Hare 4:45 p.m. 
8:00 p.m. (Board Lower Level Carson's Circle Restaurant) 

$15 One Way $28 round trip 
Buy Your Ticket From Your Driver 

••• Q &A 

is today down to abol'tt 18 per­cent by 1984-5 .... The decade of the 60s was one of the longest periods of economic growth in our country's history. We had very low unemployment, we had very low inflation, and even with the 26.1 percent tax cut that President Kennedy put in, Federaf tax revenues went up 50 percent. So it was a program that worked, and I think we need to go back to that kind of program. Today, when Repub­licans advocate the same kind of program that John Kennedy advocated in '63 and '64, it's called "Voodoo Economics". Well, ifit's Voodoo Economics, then we need more of it, 'cause it worked. It's working in Puerto Rico today, the govern­or down there has cut taxes each of the last three years by five percent across the board, and he has a plan to cut taxes each of the next three years by five percent across the board, and the net result down there is that tax revenues went up 1 3.1 percent, and they added an ad­ditional 100,000 taxpayers to the rolls. Puerto Rico isn't that' big, so it's had dramatic effects. These kind ofthings work, and I think we should do what works. 
0: I think the reason why it's called "Voodoo Economics'· is be­cause Republicar~s, and I don't think you're an exception, are also pro­posing defense increases. What do you say to the argu!Jlent that tax cuts would be doubly iriflationary when added to increased defense spendiflg? 
A: Taxes, in the next year, are going to go up $86 billion. That's an increase in Federal tax revenues of17 percent, so when we talk about tax cuts, we're not talking about cutting them from the level they're at today, we're just talking about trying to dig into that $86 billion a little bit. Instead of taxes going up $86 billion, let's have them go up only $60 billion. You know $86 billion works out to $880 for the average taxpayer in this country, and that's a lot more taxes he's going to have to be paying-17 percent more. Now his wages aren't going to go up 17 percent, so that means he's going to have a loss in real income and purchasing power. We can't look at the economy as a static economy, and I think that having people say "Well if you cut taxes you won't have money for defense spending," they're approaching from the terms of a static economy. We do not have a static economy. Unfortunately, today we have a stagnant economy, but I think that with tax cuts and some sound policies, we can have a 
. • • . • (continued on page 5) 


The-~ObserYer== 

Catnpus 
• 
5:30 p.m. -meeting french club. second floor, south dining hall. 

• 
7-8:30 p.m. -urban plunge alternative work­shop, lib. aud. lounge. 


• 7:30p.m.-film "steam­boat bill, jr." washington hall, $1. 
• 8:30 p.m. -lecture mathematical comps in physics. prof. william mcglinn, nd physics dept. sponsored by nd math club. refreshments served. bulla shed. 


Monday, October 13, 1980 -page 5 


Molarity 

ONE OF THESE 

~y~ I'VE 60T TO 

J>EFRO~T THI ~ THJNGr 
...Q&A 

(continuedfrom page f) 
vibrant economy again, an e­conomy that's growing. When 
you  have  an  economy  that's  
growing,  you're  producing  
more  tax  revenues.  The  one  

thing (that's) for sure, you're never going to balance the bud­get by raising taxes. 
Q: b1 an earlier interview with The Observer, Congressman Brademas disputed the polls which satd that you were leading him, be­cause he said it surveyed only 106 people, and in his words, "we survey more people thafl that to decide whether to serve hot dog.r or ham­burgers at a picnic. ., Do you agree with that assessment? 
A: The surveys that we've had taken, I don't know what he's talking about, 106 people. The surveys that we've had taken have surveyed 350-400 people, which is a statistically relevant survey. I'm not going to get into a dispute with Congressman Brademas over what he believes or doesn't believe. We place a lot of faith in the poll; it's statistically significant, it's sta­tistically reliable, and if you be­lieve in statistics, then you haxe to believe in surveys. If he chooses not to, that's his busi­ness. It doesn't bother me, it doesn't change our campaign strategy any. 
Q: Are there any issues on which you differ from Ronald Reagan? 
A: Not too much on the issues that are going to determine this election. I think that the e­conomy, inflation, the burden of overregulation, these are things that Reagan principally has been talking about of late, and those are the key elements of this campaign. 
the notre dame student union presents 
If!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! country rock jam!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~!!!!!!!!~ featuring 

the vassar clements band 
...................................................................--·················.... 
tickets: $5.00 general admission $4.00 w. n.d./smc i.d. 
available at: ndsu ·ticket office m-f (12-4) all river city record stores 
chicken barbecue 5-8 p.m. tickets $3.50 

·-····························································································... 


sat. nov. 1st. stepan center 
IX>onesbury 
HEY, MIKE, I 7llfX6HT I AM. tM '!W I4EJ?& PICK/!6 W JfJ5T FIN­'!Of.JR t:¥ITe1fT 7H~ /SHIWi UP 
~ \ STifT!ON. MY 50/E­~ f)t}/E Flf5f. ~ / 

The Daily Crossword 

© 1980 by Chicago Tribune·N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
let's jam I 
with special guests 

john hall heartsfield 
radio flyer rich prezioso &kevin quigley 
10/13/80 


"'6:00·7:30, (j() 70 HAIQ) 70 
()INN:/?,-8:{}()-INXJ, 60 fAIRlNj RAN!JY NcaMAN MfH A PRO­CONCERJ; 1/:JO-r:oo, 6RAM /.1/1'£ 
ACROSS 27 Porter's 1 Loiters cousin 5 Rejoicing 28 Likea 
15 Melville sword in work shape 16 Coru:eivable 30 Singer Ed 
17 Preposition 31 Bauble 
18 Affirmative 33 Song of action praise 
candidates 35 Takeon 
19 Black Sea 36 Leads port astray 21 Kinsman: 40 False: 
abbr. comb. form 22 God of the 43 Hebrew Underworld prophet 23 Popor 44 Fastener Tommy 47 Inundates 24 Eastern 49 Turkish capital p~sha 26 Diner Item 50 Artful 
Saturday's Puzzle Solved: 


Garry Trudeau 
"J:oo-z:3fh· THA/5#0T 7RYaJT (J.Jf/ER(D'Y, Mt:Ne5.." Of CfJ(JR5E. 


51 Customary 11 Make lace 
practice 12 Footnote 52 Imbibe word 53 Fruity 13 Liquid part 
treat of fat 54 Nautical 14 Centaur record slain by 56 Rains Hercules 
frozen rain 20 Prepares 58 Eternize vegetables 61 Polka· 23 Infatuated 
dotted 25 Jabber 63 Suites 26 Babytalk 64 Walter's 29 On a diet 
need 32 Aquarium 65 Warships fish 66 Early 34 Tenant 
laborer 37 Egyptian coins 
DOWN 38 Amulet 1 Costello 39 Sufflllt for 2 Serum· lord or 
filled lady 
vessels 41 Where Mon· 3 Gospel tevldeo Is 4 Loudness 42 Scale tones 
unit 44 Pilfered 
5 Plant of 45-Creed the night· 46 Gives shade warning family 48 Spendthrnt 
6 Eskimo 54 Their: Fr. 
boats 55 Another, 7 Prohibition toGoya 8 Philippine 57 Punta 
tribesmen del­9 Money In 59 Crock Milan 60 Longtime 10 Indigo 62 Peeper 




VALPARAISO LAW SCHOOL 
A representative of Valparaiso law school will be on campus. All interested are urged to attend. 
WHO: JULIE BLACKBURN WHEN: Oct. 14, 10-3 p.m. Sign-up outside 101 O'Shag or LeMans Lobby 
j 
--~~----------------------------------------------·· 
The Observer 

Monday, October 13, 1980 -page 6 





Jim Stone leads Irish romp over Hurricanes 
by Tim Prister Sports Writer 

At the pep rally in Stepan Center Friday evening, tailback Phil Carter said it didn't matter that he wouldn't be playing against the University ofMiami. The position would be filled quite capably by senior Jim Stone. With Carter's words still echoing through his head, Stone calmly slashed through the highly touted Hurricane de­fense amassing 224 yards en­route to a 32-14 victory. 
"I felt bad for Phil, especialy after last week's exceptional performance," commented Stone, who was Carter's host when he visited Notre Dame 
ago. "Despite the in­
-
jury though, he continued to 
encourage me all week long." 
Another inspiration for Stone resulted from his young­er brother Dan's knee injury sustained in the Michigan State game. Dan underwent surgery for torn ligaments Saturday and is recovering in St. Joseph's hospital in South Bend. 
Of course, had Carter not been the recipient of a brutal tackle on his last carry one week ago, Stone would have remain­ed as backup tailback--a po­sition which has left Stone a frustrated individual. 
"Sure it's frustrating not to be starting, but Coach Devine always talks about being ready. For example, last year when (Pete) Buchanan was injured John Sweeney was prepared and did a fine job in his place. 
"There's only one way to be prepared for such situations and that is giving your best in practice everyday. In my own mind, I figured that when Vagas (Ferguson) graduated, I would be the heir apparent. Naturally, I knew I'd have to work ex­
~ tremely hard to win the starting position." Yet Carter took full advan­tage of the spring session using his quickness as a major asset. "Phil's first step probably is quicker than mine but our run­ning styles are completely dif­ferent," said Stone, who runs the 40-yard dash in4.5 seconds. Stone also agreed with one sports writer's inference of 

NO'I'BE DAME vs. 
GEORGIATECH 
GRANT FIELD NOVEMBER 8TH, 1:30 P.M. 
Plan to attend the Notre Dame/Georgia Tech game? Why not really enjoy it? Make reservations at the Sheraton-Atlanta just two short blocks from Grant Field Relax in your room. Enjoy an informal buffet in our Five-Ninety West Rooftop Hestaurant-served from ll a.m. till game time. 
Then, stroll the two blocks to the field in time for kick off, avoiding parking hassles. 
After the game, return to the hotel and enjoy drirks and dinner, dancing and entertainment in Five-Ninety West or our new.Ashley's Lounge 
Come on out Fighting Irish and enjoy a football weekend. 
Call today toll-free l-800-325-3535 

We are an equal opportunity employer m/f 
October 14, 1980 · 
7:00 p.m. Blue &Gold Room -Morris Inn Refreshments Served 
* 
American Hospital Supply Corporation 
Presentation by Dan O'Hara Director of Purchasing-Class of '74 
* 
When 

You Choose 
American 
Hospital 
Supply 

Corporation 


You Have ,A Choice! 

Multiple Divisions: 22 diversified divisions contributing products and 
services to the expanding health care industry. 
Geographical Locations: American Hospital Supply Corporation 
maintains sales and distribution centers in 91 cities throughout the 
United States with 59 additional locations around the world. Presently 
there are 92 manufacturing locations in the U.S. and other countries. 
Lifestyle: Depending on the geographical location and career direction 
you choose. ' 
Career Direction: You'll have many ways of contributing to the health 
care industry in the following ::~reas: 
AccountingI FinanceI Operations SalesI DistributionI Marketing 
If you seek a company in which you do indeed "Y·~ .J choice, meet with our campus representative at: 
Carter's style being similar to . Walter Payton and Stone com­
parable to Gale Sayers. How­
ever, Stone played down such a 
comparison as he did with re­
gards to his personal perform­
ance. 
"In order to be a good run­
ning back, you have to have 
help from the men up front." 
said Stone, who is also a suite­
mate of Carter's in Flanner 
Hall. "I don't like to single out 
any particular individuals be­
cause they were all doing such a 
fine job, but I'm really proud of 
John Scully. He did a tremen­
dous job against Jim Burt. 
"Nick Vehr also blocked well 
and he especially helped on the 
pitch sweep. He kept encou­
raging me to follow his block. 
"Personally this game today 
was a big challenge," continued 
Stone, who's parents traveled 
from Seattle, Wash. to see the 
game. "But our offensive line 
kept remindig me that they 
would do their best. That re­
assurace gave me a lot of con­
fidence." 
Coach Devine also had con­fidence in Jim Stone especialy 

on his final 27-yard jaunt. 

•
Devine took credit for the de­
cision to let Stone try to reach 
the 200-yard rushing plateau. 
"Under normal circum­
stances I wouldn't have put him 
back in but everybody on the 
team wanted him to get 200. I 
could have replaced him with 
freshmanJohnMosely, but I felt 
Jim deserved it. 
"I'm really proud ofJim He 
spent most of his career in the 
shadows ofVagas Ferguson and 
then found himself without a 
starting spot this year. Yet, Jim 
continued to work hard. There 
was never any pouting on his 
part and he has always been 
ready when we needed him." 
Asked what kept him going 'over the sometimes trying four 
years, Stone noted the support 
of his family, friends and es­
pecially his teammates. 
"Playing football at Notre 
Dame is re~lly something spe­
cial. It's hard to explain the 
magic that this university pos­
sesses but when you're involved 
in the Michigan game, and the 
Mirage and Cotton Bowls, you 
realize the long, tough practices 
were really worth it." 


-,... .... 
! ' 
' 

------~--------------­
The Observer 
Monday, October 13, 1980 -page 7 


All-American Candidate 
Phillybeats Houston; winsNLpennant Scully overpowers Burt 
HOUSTON (AP) -The ne­Cabell then struck out before by Michael Ortman with his blocks really well, bet­the game, the offensive linemen ver-say-die Philadelphia Phil­pinch-hitter Rafael Landestoy Associate Sports Editor ter than any center I've ever told me to just follow them and lies staged a dramatic comeback singled to left field to score played against. everything would be alright," with a five-run eighth inning Reynolds and Jose Cruz deliv­Last Tuesday, Notre Dame "In fact," he added, "that smiled the excited tailback. and rallied once again on 1Oth­ered another single, to center Coach Dan Devine told a group whole offensive line stayed with "They really gave me a lot of inning doubles by Del Unser field, to tie the game. of Chicago sports writers that their blocks better than any confiaence, telling me that they and Garry Maddox to defeat the The Phillies had staged a Irish center John Scully would team I've seen." believed in me, almost more Houston Astros 8-7 Sunday dramatic five-run rally in the find out just how good he really It was a long afternoon for the than I believed in mvself." night and advance to the World eighth fueled by Manny Trillo's was when he went up against holder of Miami's single-season John Scully, Jim Stone and Series for the first time since two-run triple to take a 7-5 lead. Miami's nose guard Jim Burt. mark for unassisted tackles the Notre Dame football team 1950. Devine declared "the winner of (100 in 1979). The few times he are starting to make believers 
The Phillies will meet A­that battle should be an all­did manage to get away from out of a lot of people. merican League champion American." Scully, he was forced to chase Kansas City in the World Series How does "All-American quarterback Blair Kiel from
... Irish 

opener Tuesday night in Phil­center John Scully" sound? sideline to sideline. adelphia. The voting for national hon­"His scrambling ability was ... 



, , , 1.Wiami

With the score tied at 7-7 in (cofltimted from page 8J ors is a long way off, but ," h~ said shaking his head. He 
the roller-coaster fifth game of Saturday Scully definitely threw 
couldn't finish the comment. 
the best-of-five National Lea­the game, but co-captain Kevin 
his name in the ring for con­"That quarterback, what's his 
(n111tinued from page 8)
gue championship series, Unser Lovejoy did speak for the team. sideration, controlling one the name? Kiel? He's got a superhit a one-out double to right "This is what we've been doing nation's leading all-America 
knowledge of the game. He freshman's over-all play, and,field in the Philadelphia 1Wh. to ourselves all year long," he candidates and leading the knows when to scramble and when asked if Kiel was now his
After Manny Trillo flied t() 
said. "We can't even make a whole offensive line to perhaps when not to. I only got close to starting quarterback, simply
center field to send Unser to pass back to the goalie and we its finest performance of the him twice. The first time, he got nodded.
third base, ·Maddox then blast­
can't get a goal when we need young season. rid ofthe ball before I could get Kiel himselfwasn't as high oned another double in front of 
one. It was just like Marqu,ette One didn't need to see the to him. The other time, he just 
his performance.
Terrv Puhl in center to score 
last week when we {>utshot them game to see the Irish domina­ran out of bounds. He's a pretty
Uns~r and end the fourth 24-8 and couldn't score." tion of the line of scrimmage, sharp guy."
traight extra-inning game in the 
The third mistake may have especially when Notre Dame· Scully was just as impressed "Passing wise I stunk, to be 
series. 
been the most costly one for the was on offense. The numbers with Burt. "He's definitely one quite blunt," said Kiel after the 
The Phillies were losing 5-2 
Irish. A foul call in the Redskin tell the story. The Hurricanes of the best, if not the best I've game, "but overall, I'm not too 
after the Astros' three-run 
penalty area gave Notre Dame's had allowed a grand total of just ever gone against," Scully said. disappointed because we won, 
surge in the seventh. But they 
Ed O'Malley a penalty kick at 62 yards on the ground in their "I tried to play my usual game, and anytime you win.you can't 
scored five runs in the eighth 55:42, but the junior forward be disappointed."
four previous victories. Yet except I knew I was going to before the Astros came back to pulled his shot wide left and the Saturday, Jim Stone & Com­have to overcomensate for his tie the game with two r~ns in lead staved at 2-0. tremendous strength."
pany rolled over that stingy de­their half of the eighth. 
\X'hil~ Notre Dame outshot fense for 302 rushing yards. Yet Scully was not without '·We've got great potential,"
The Phillies' winning rally 
Miami 16-2 during the Irish­"We ran at them," was the praise for his comrades. "We said Kiel, an Columbus, Ind. 
came off Frank LaCorte, the 
dominated second half, the theme echoing through the are a unit," he proclaimed," not native. "We're off to a fantistic
fourth Houston pitcher. Dick 
Redskins set up a blanketing Irish locker room after the a bunch ofindividuals. The first start, but we've got to take each
Ruthven, the last ofsix pitchers 
defense around keeper Bing­game. "I was looking at a lot of and second teams work side-by­of our remaining games one at a
for Philadelphia, was the win­
ham and did not give way until a films this week," said Stone. "A side on the sidelines, giving time." 
ner. 
second penalty kick was whistl­lot oftheir (Miami's) opponents each other helpful hints.
The Astros tied thtt game 7-7 
ed by referee AI Natali at 72:37. ran pitch sweeps and runs to the Everybody's concern isn't how If the rest of theNotre Dame
with two runs in the eighth in­
This time, Lovejoy took the sidelines. All week, the coaches he'.r playing but how we're play­team is like their starting quar­
ning off reliever Tug McGraw, 
freebie from 12 yards out and were putting emphasis on run­ing and how we can win the terback then tnat's exactly
making his fifth appearance in ' .
did not miss. His tenth goal of ning right at them, and that's game." what they're doing. As the
the Hve-game series. 
the year made it 2-1, but that what we did.'' 
And when thev talk, it has an crowd of reporters moved awayCraig Reynolds led off the 
was all ·the scoring for the day. Burt, just over six feet tall but impact, as Stone testified. One from Kiel's locker, finally al­
Houston eighth with a single 
"Except for Indiana and St. 250 pounds of solid rock, was writer asked Saturday's hero lowing him an opportunity to
af1d Terry Puhl got a record­
Louis," said Notre Dame full­.greatly impressed with Scully when he knew it was going to be get dressed, he asked no one in
setting fourth straight single 
back Steve Miller, ''We just and his crew. "He's an excellent a good day-not a 200-yard particular "Who do we play
after pinch-hitter Gary Woodii 
center," Burt said. "He ·stays day-but a good day. "Before next week?"
struck out. Third baseman Enos can't get a break." 
.----------------------------------------------------------------------~---------------------------------------------------. 
.s 

~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
LOST: St. Michael's medal. Inscribed
l~l_) 1 ICES I need a ride to Iowa for two over HAPPY 21 sl BIRTHDAY TIM GRIFFIN.. I Michael Sullivan. Coll8933 REWARD!I 
October break Call Jim at 1073 refrained from all personals this OVt:RStAS JOBS: Summer/year year... enjoy yourself and keep the
LOST: Block Lob-Doberman puppy Need ride to DC for break. Pete:
round turope, S. Amer., Australia, turtle action to a minimum.
Black coat with while spot on chest. 
1184 ' 
Asia. All fields $500-$1200 monthly. Tlt:KETS
female. CtJII John, 234-3394. Someone you ca. e about-a friend. Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free Wonted: Guitar lessons for 9 yr old 
d family member -have a drinkingFOUND: Calculator in library on

info. Write: IJC, Box 52-IN 4, Corona faculty daughter. 234-4620 problem? Join us. AI Like, ext. 8809 Oct. 8. Must identity to claim. Call
Del Mar, CA. 92625. Bart at 272-9978. Help! Need ride lor 2 coming Bt A BEllt:VER IN MIDWEST ROCK 'N'
NHD 2 ARIZONA TICKETS. 4006·
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student 
bock to NO from Central NJ over ROLL.. LISTEN TO THE MICHAEL
SMC

FOUND: CalcultJIOr in Hayesloons $20-$200. One percent 
Break! Call 3193. STANLtY BAND in concert Thurs OctHealy on Wed., Oct. 8. Call and
interest. Due in 30 days. One ~ay WHO HAS 3 GA ARMY TIX' I NEED 30 at 8 pm in SMC O'laughlin Aud.
identify. Ruben 3254. Will sell own SISTER for ride to
wail. Open M·F 11:30·12:30. Final THEM. CALL TIM 1633 Reserved seating ticket sales 
at

either NY or BOSTON area for
application day before break is 
SMC Ticket Office & ND/SMC Dining

October break!! Call John@ 1817 Family coming!! Need 3 GA Army
Oct. 16. Halls. Price: $6 NOW, increased to

FOR RENT 
tix. Call Joe 1840. Need ride bock from Buftolo·G.I. 
$7 AFTER BREAK.

THE NEW BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN ALBUM Sunday, Oct. 26. Will share...etc. Need six GA tix. tor Army together.
"THE RIVER" IS SCHEDULED TO BE deep space music is fine lor me 
I
2 room llpl. $50 mo. Near 233­
RELEASED AND AVAILABLE THIS Call Steve Miller, 7791. Call Mike 8760. 
t
1329. Two people need a ride to
MONDAY. OCT. 13, AT RIVER CITY 
Need riders to Boca Raton-Fl. NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ALABAMA GAME. 
t
Chicago 0'Hare airport lor October

RECORDS. THE BOSS RELEASES THE FOR RENT: Ugly Duckling Rent-A-Cor. 
Call Mary 7220.

Lauderdale area tor Fall break. Call break. We will split the cost of gas.
RIVER, SO GET IT AT RIVER CITY Priced from $7,95 a day tJnd seven 
Steve 232-1978. Call Cheryl at 4629 
I
RECORDS THIS MONDAY! $1.00 OFF cents o mile. Phone 255-2323 lor Desperately need 4 GA"S for the 
reservations. NEED RIDE TO RICHMOND, VIRGINIA ARMY game. Call Mike at 1755. remember to vote
All SPRINGSTEEN ALBUMS INCLUD· "yes" AREA FOR BREAK. CALL BEN AT 232­
lNG IMPORTS, WITH N.D. OR SMC I.D., tomorrow, October 14 on the
APT. FOR RENT-QUIET, WITH Wonted ONE Army GA or student tic. 
' 
8196.. BEST TIME TO CALL IS AROUND BEDROOM-LIVINGROOM &KITCHEN, Mark 288-0734 after 11:00
NOW THROUGH OCTOBER 15! Student Senate referendum in your 
MIDNIGHT. 
htJIIs during lunch tJnd dinner. We 

JOE CHARBONEAU AND JERRY BATHROOM W/SHOWER. Coli Kevin, Need 8 G.A. ARMY Tix • Please call need t:VERYONE'S participation!
1139, or Mr. Joers. 234-3387. NEED RIDE FROM CLEVELAND AREA
GARCIA FOR PRESIDENT. VOTE FOR 
Mary Pat at 8091 PlEASE VOTE!
TO NOTRE DAME AFTER OCTOBERTHE PARTY PARTY, THE ONLY CHOICE! 
Furnished Apt.• 503 1/2 W. Je!lerson, 
BREAK. SHARE EXPENSES. CALL PAT John, HELP -need ride to Detroit area. 
Duplex. 3 rooms, 2nd floor, gas 
8606. Climb a mountain... smell some
DRUGS CAN BE PURCHASED WITH THE
hetJifUH'Iished, 289-6307,234-0596. 
Coli Sharla -3891 daisies... run barefoot tor a while.
MEGABUCKS I WILL PAY FOR ARMYNeed ride to Florida call Bob 3107 II feels great!
Mark Delorey is working at o high GA TIX CALL PAT 8606
will pay$$$ 
• II really does.

school in Guam. Why not write to Filthy Rich student needs 1 student 
him ? Mark Delorey, Notre Dame WANTEIJ Gel your ASH out in Oregon. 2 riders o.c Students. remember to vole
or G.A. ticket to A;my. Call Tim· 8628 High School, Talololo, Guam. 96914 wanted. 180/186 WEST & 15 NORTH in the referendum TOMORROW, 
Call Charlie 1247 or Greg 1153. . October 14 Special locations have
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS
I AM IN DIRE NEED OF A RIDE TO 
Round trip only. DESPERATELY NEED TIX TO ARMY. 
been set up for your convenience: 

ARIZONA FOR THE SEMESTER BREAK RINGS. Men's $35-$85 and up. Free CALL JEFF 232-0902. 
Campus View -Campus View 

PLEASE HELP JOHN 277-5042 house calls. 255-2402. NEED RIDE TO OKLAHOMA CITY OCT residents only; N.D. Apls.-O.C.
NEED 3 G.A. TICKETS FOR ARMY
15 OR 16 CALL CAROL 5489 SMC 
Will do typing. Neat. accurate. wonted female or male vocalist GAME CALL RAY 272-9978 students with 46617 zip code: 
AFTER 4 PM 
Lafortune-oil other O.C. students. PLEASE VOTE! 

experienced. Reasonable rates. for local band preforming and 
Call 287·5162. recording original progressive NEED RIDE to WESTCHESTER COUNTY rock. Must be professional and NY or areo.Leave Wed or Thurs. call have good stage presence. If N. Byrne 232-3656 Share$$ 
Potty.Interested coli 288-1725 aft. 6:00
LOST/FOUNI) PERSONALS Your pix in. like I promised. pm. • The Pl>oto.~rupha

FOR SALE 
LOST: Tan Suede Jacket-REWARD Desperately need RIDE TO DENVER 
COMICS, new and old. DC, 
ITS WORTH TEN SHEETS OF TYPING

For Relurn.Losl in the CCMB. IF FOR FAll BREAK. Will shore even the WILL DO TYPING. NEAT, ACCURATE,Marvel. Warren. more. Free per­
PAPER TO SEE MOLlY WOULFE IN A

FOUND PLEASE CALL 3337.(Great unusual. Please call me at 1142 and 
EXPERIENCED. REASONABLE RATES.
sonal delivery on campus. Discounts. 
SKIRT.

Sentimental Value) ask tc;H Bill.. • CALL 287·5162. , , . , , .
287-6920 eveni~ 

/
t 
Monday, October 13, 1980 -page 8







S~orts 
NotreDametopsMiami, 32-14 
by Mark Hannuksela At first, it didn't appear that start at that position since 19 51. Sports Writer Stone would reach the 200-yard Kiel, who wears the same num­
ber worn by ex-Irish great Paul

mark, however. With time run­It was all one could expect ning out, Devine pulled Stone Horning (5), had his problems 
in the passing department (4­

rom a battle between unbeaten in favor of freshman John 
power­, 17, 35 yds.), but managed to
nd nationally-ranked Mosley. 
pick up an extra 28 yards on

lOUses. "I've never, never let a guy go 
various runs. He also punted

It was a classic show-down. like I did on that last play," said 
well, averaging 38.1 yards a

It was Notre Dame vs. Miami. Devine afterwards, "and for a 
kick, with only one of his seven

What? Notre Dame vs. couple of reasons: one, because 
punts being run back (that for

·.Hami? Who you trying to kid? you don't want to get him hurt, 
only two yards).

There was no kidding on this and two, because you've got the day, as the nation's seventh and game won. But everyone "Whether he was a freshman or whether he was a junior, I was 
thirteenth ranked teams squar­ll'tmted him to get the 200 yards ed off in South Bend. And there (he had 197 before his last very impresed with him," said was no kidding either coach carry), including the players, so Schnellenberger of Kiel's per­
about which team was better. formance. "I think he's a very
I called Mosley back and said "Notre Dame has got an ex­'Let's try to get the 200 yards.' good quarterback and I think 
ceptional football team, by far Of course, I didn't know he was he's got great potential. He hurt 
rhe best team that we've play­·us badly with his scrambling.
going to go all the way."
ed," said Miami coach Howard "I also thought he did an ex­
Devine, whose team is off to 
Schnellenberger folowing his ceptional job with his play-ac­
their best start (4-0) in his 
team's 32-14 loss to the Fight­tion passing," Schnellenberger
tenure at Notre Dame, and the 
ing Irish. "They're also the most continued. ~'It was very difficult
best overall since the undefeat­
physical team that we've play­to read whether it was a run or a
ed National Championship year
ed. They just played a letter pass."
of 1973, had nothing but praise
perfect game. Today, they were Despite the statistics, Devine
for his senior tailback after the 
a better football team than we was also impressed with the per­
game, saying "I'm really proud
were.'' formance of Kiel. He admitted
of Jimmy Stone, because he's
Irish coach Dan Devine ag­to being pleased with the
labored in the shadows ofVagusreed: 
Ferguson, and then became the 'continued ot1 page 7}
"To use an old cliche, this was 
heir-apparent to the position, a team victory. We played with 
only to get beat out by Phil a great deal ofintensity, and the Carter. But Jim kept workingteam was really ready. This 
hard and never pouted, and 
team was more ready for this 
ND takes state tennis crown
when the team needed him, he game than any other team has was there."
been for a particular game since decided in a 5-2 tiebraker. injury hampered her," explain­
Schnellenberger's only com­by Kelly Sullivan 
I've been here." "Cindy played a very good ed Petro. "She hadn't had a
ment on Stone's performance \.f'omen'.r Sports Editor
Undoubtedly, the big story of match," said Petro. "People raquet in her hand for a week
was "I knew nothing about him,
this game was the emergence of Notre Dame captured eight told us that the Franklin player and a half. The brace she was
but with a school ofthis caliber,
senior tailback Jim Stone. A of nine titles on their way to (Thanos) had never played that wearing wouldn't let her hit her
whoever they put in will be of 
native of Seattle, Wash., Stone superior quality. has ex­winning the Indiana AIA W good in her life -she just best shots. She was able to play
He 
lifted the name of Carter off of ceptional speed and good pow­Division II state championship played out of her mind against well at doubles, but she just the lips of most Irish faithful for Saturday in Indianapolis. Cindy." wasn't strong enough on her a few hours with a 224-yard er." The Irish dominated the Junior Mary Legeay finished approach shots at singles."
The dominance of the Irish 
rushing performance. His ef­rushing attack against a nine-team tournament, earning second in the fifth singles slot, , ''I'm amazed that she got as fort was inspired by his first ever Hur­3 3 points to outdistahce run­failing in her attempt for a third far as she did-she should be
ricane defense that was the na­
·start in a Notre Dame uniform, ner-up Butler by six. Trailing straight state cro vn. The pre­complimented for placing sec­
tion's best was a major reason and by an injury which befell why the final score wasn't as were Franklin with 12, Valpar­viously unbeaten lefthander ond," said ht::r coach. 
brother Dan earlier in the week. aiso 9, Indiana Central 6, In­was hampered by damaged ten­The Irish, who jumped from
close as the oddsmakers had 
diana-SE 4, Indiana State-Evan­dons in her hand, an injury sus­Division III to II this season,''Today, I felt I had one com­predicted. But Devine's reac­sville 4, Evansville 2 and St, tained nearly a month ago, and have proven themselves a stateing to me, because I've been tion was simple. 
Joseph's 0. had been favored to take the power but will face a stiffer test
waiting a long time," said "I have never been surprised "We played to our potent­number five title. of their talent next spring,Stone, "and my brother getting by anything that's happened in 
ial," remarked a jubilant coach when they will compete in re­I operated on really gave me a football game in 33 years of Sharon Petro. Some of the girls "There's no question that the gional compt::tition.
added incentive. I really wanted coaching, so I wasn't surprised 

I had problems in their first sets, 
to do it for him today." by anything that happened to­
but they consitently came
Dan Stone should be more day." back -thev were determinedthan pleased with the perfor­
to win this ·thing." 

E"or-plagued Irish 
mance of his brother, whose That dominant rushing at­
Singles championships were 
rushing total was the third best tack also overshadowed the 
won by Linda Hoyer (No. 2),
individua1 performance by an performanc of quarterback 
Pam Fischette (No. 3), CarQl 
Irish back in history. Blair Kiel, the first freshman to 
Shukis (No. 4), and Peggy 

fall2-1 to Redskins 
Walsh (No. 6).. The Irish won 

three doubles championships by Gary Grc1ssey ;.v1iami lead at the 31:2i mark.. 
with No. 1 Hoyer-Tina Steph­Sports Writer The goal was credited to Matas an, No. 2 Legeay-Fischette and Rutenis, the nearest Redskin No. 3 Sheila Cronin-Stasia Time may have run out on the attacker to the net. Obremskev. Notre Dame soccer team yes­Eleven minutes later, an Irish 
"A lot c..)f the other coaches terday afternoon. defensive mixup at midfield let commented on what a deter­Their 2-1 loss to Miami of Miami center forward Brad mined team we have," related Ohio (9-1-1 ), the no. six ranked Kovin loose on a breakaway the Notre Dame mentor. "They team in the Great Lakes Re­down the right sideline. Un­
asked me how I motivate the gion, on chilly Cartier Field contested, Kovin reached the girls. This team doesn't have to probably served the final death endline and moved ten yards in be motivated -thev do it notice for any post-season front of McCarthy, who re­playoff hopes the eighth-rank­
themselves, they· w~re just mained by the post to cut down 
ed Irish have been entertaining.
hungry for the win." the angle, before nudging a 
In a cleanly contested match
Much of the tournament crossing pass to Rutenis for his 
that was dominated by Notre
seemed to be a rematch be­second goal and a 2-0 lead with 
Dame field position and time of
tween Notre Dame and Butler, just 2:59left to play in the half. 
who played each other last possession, ~hree critical mis­
One minute later, Irish week. The Bulldogs dropped an takes proved fatal for the in­freshman Ken Harkenrider had 8-1 decision to the Irish. Four of jury-plagued Irish, now 11-4 on a chance to cut the gap when the the singles flights and all three the year. ball popped free in front of the of the final doubles matches The first two errors came in 
Miami .cage. But the Fort the first half and each led to
were ND-Butler showdowns. Wayne, IN youngster hesitatedJim Stone Tom Gibbons "We kind. of knew Butler Redskin scores. 
and decided to move to the 

would be out to get us," offered After thirty minutes of de­right of Miami keeper Gary Hoyer, who renewed her reign fensive struggling in the mid­Bingham. The extra move al­
by The Observer 
field area, Irish upback Mark
as second singles champion. lowed fullbackJim Willian, last
Offensive Playt:r oj the Game-nejetJSive Player ofthe Game-­
"They played against us like it Luetkehans brought the ball week's Mideast Player of the
Jim Stone for his outstanding Tri-captain Tom Gibbons, who 
was a dual match, and they back towards his own net in an Week, to strip the ball away and
rushing performance, running intercepted an errant.Jim Kelly 
played really well." effort to drop a pass to keeper cancel the threat.
38 times for a net game of 224 pass and returned it for a diving Number one singles. player Gerard McCarthy. However, as A disconsolate Irish Richyards and one touchdown. Hon-53-yard touchdown. Honorable Cindv Schuster lost her second McCarthy raced to meet his Hunter refused comment after
?rt~bk J1ention-John Scully for Me11tion --Bob Crable, Scott round match to Franklin's Mary teammate, the pass was seJlt by his brillant control of Jim Burt. Zettek, Par Kramer, Tom Kay Thanos, the state's second his right side and rolled right 
(coutinued on paKI:' 7)
· Desiato and the specialty across the goal line for a 1-0
'>eed, 6-4, 3-6, 6-7, the last set
teams. 






