, . , , The Empty Keg page 4 

VOL. XV, NO. 31 an independent srudenr newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TIIURSDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1980 

Iraq announces cease fire 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -Iraq will cease hostilities with Iran unilaterally from Oct. 5-8, but "ifmilitary action is taken against u~ we will r_et~rn the fire," a spokesman for the Iraq1 U.N. M1ss1on said yesterday:. 
Spokesman Sala al-Mukhtar made the an­nouncement on the lOth day of the war between the two Persian Gulf neighbors. He said the dates were chosen to permit time for further -con­sultations with the Iranians by the United Nations and the Islamic peace mission headed by President Mohammed Zia ul-Haq of Pakistan. 
A ranking Iraqi diplomat indicated the plan had been worked out during Zia's just-cooup at the United Nations. 
A western diplomatic source. said the plan sounded like an Iraqi ploy to give its ground forces more time to consolidate their positions inside Iran. 
The disclosure closely followed rejection by Iranian President Abolhassan Bani-Sadr of a Security <;:ouncil call for an end to the fighting, "so 
long as lraq is in violation of our territorial 
sovereignty." 
On Tuesday, Iranian revolutionary leader 
Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini also rejected calls 
for a cease-fire, saying his regime "will not 
compromise" and will not stop fighting until all 
Iraqis are driven from Iranian soil. 
' 
In related news, tanks and foot soldiers battled all along the Iran-Iraq war front Wednesday and Iran claimed it recaptured the border city of Mehran from invading Iraqi forces. Iraq said its air force jets battered oil depots and concentrations of Iranian tanks and that Iranian warplanes hit seven Iraqi cities. In Tehran, Prime Minister Mohammad Ali Rajai was reported studying a new 
U.S. letter on the 52 American hostages. But in Washington, State Department spokesman Jack Cannon said it was the same letter the State Department publicly acknowledged a week ago and was designed to assure Iran of U.S. neutrality in the Iran-Iraq crisis. The AmericttlS are in their 334th nay of captivity today. 
Fr. Toohey falls ill; rests comfortably 
By Mary Fran Callahan priest rests in an intensive care Toohey is in "guarded" con­Senior Staff Reporter unit at St. Joseph's Hospital, dition. where doctors are attempting to Sr. Pitz, however, spoke with Fr. William Toohey, director determine the cause of his con­Toohey's nurse, who said the of Campus Ministry, fell un­dition. 
priest had been undergoing tests conscious during a staff meeting Since any information beyond all day. "The doctors did a spinal 
yesterday morning, according to 
a patient's condition is restricted tap, and ruled out meningitis.
Sr.]ane Pitz, associate director of 
to immediate family, hospital They also ruled out a tumor, and 
Campus Ministry. At present, the 
spokesmen would only say that now they are looking for a viral infection affecting the brain," Sr. Pitz commented. 
She said Toohey's nurse told her the priest was "waking up," so Toohey apparently has re­gained consciousness. 
Campus ministry was con­vening yesterday morning, and Toohey simply collapsed and lost 
By .Harv Frtlfl Calluhcm At present, gotie are anti-war the way the programs work is If after two years, however, a consciousness. ·sm{or Staff Reporter sentiments conjured during the rather complex. Students apply "It's a good thing it happened 
One of ten dotners belongs to ROTC 
student decides to quit the pro­while we were all there, and not
sixties, for patriotism is indeed for military scholarships in their gram, he has no obligations after
Marching in the morning, while he was alone," Sr. Pitz said. 
fashionable again. senior year ofhigh school-just graduation, no financial obliga­polishing black shoes, and taking "The era of anti-military is as they apply to colleges. If tion for the two years of benefits As of 4 a.m. this morning, St. classes in Navigation-simply over. Patriotism is not only selected as· scholarship recipi­received, and no futher obliga­Joseph's listed Fr. Toohey's con­
participating in the military acceptable, but it's become ents, they receive four years of tion to participate in the pro­dition as "fair," upgraded from rest:rve-is a wav of life for ten something students can under­college tuition, fees and books gram in any way-such as the earlier listing of "guarded." perct:nt ofNotre bamestudents. stand better and have a better paid. In return, they must serve classes or drills. Thus two-year However, The Oh.remer was un­
ablt: to obtain any further in­
desire to pursue," Lt. Col. (Air four years of active officer duty scholarships frequently become 
formation on his condition. 
Force) Vktor L. Kapinos ex­after graduation. During their available, and with hope of at­plained. college summers, they partici­taining them, students frequent-More information r::!garding 
Not only dqt:s the eighties' pate in camps or cruises­Toohey's condition is expected
Reagan leads 
[continued on page 3]
sentiment differ from that of the depending upon their branches. later today from the hospital. last decades, but statistics prove
among ND 
that the military reserve is flourishing. In the Air Fo~ce branch alone, the class size of
students 
graduating cadets has averaged about 15 cadets per year. This 
Muskie to speak at Notre Dam.e
A <.:ampus poll performed late year, 42 students will graduatelast week by tht: McNally from the program in May. Research Group for The Observer Colonel (Naval ROTC) Richard has found that Republican presi­Johnson explained that the 
by john M. Higgins South Bend. Muskie had been invited to 
dential candidate Ronald Reagali. national retention rate for 
Staff Reporter appear before the West Side 
has a formidable lead among 
Muskie's visit comes in re­Democratic and Civic Club the 
Notre Dame students with a sponse to an invitation by the
The University announced same evening, but it was judged
Continuing Center for Educa­
preference, with independent yesterday that Secratary of State that an apppearance before a
candidate John Anderson a tion. Despite his appearance
EdmundS. Muskie wil deliver a political club would not be
distant second, and President with Brademas, who is facing
foreign policy address on acceptable during an official
Jimmy Carter a very low third. strong opposition in his bid for
Saturday October 11. The talk visit.
The former California gover­students who be~in in the Navy re-election, the visit is being
will be delivered at 10 a.m. in 
nor polled 40 percent of the and eventually finish is 50 per­described as non-political.
Washington Hall and will be University officials said that
student vote, Rep. Anderson cent. At Notre Dame, however, open to all students, faculty and Brademas field representative special arrangemt:nts for parkingthe rate is ten pt"Tcent above the
picked up 29 percent, and and access to campus would be
national average. The Army's Lt. members of the general public. Marilyn Richard explained that it
Prt:sident Carter got 14 percent. made for people attending the
Col. Henry Gordon said his Following the address, the is customary for t-he congress­
Carter trailed the category address in view of the normal
branch retained 86 percent ofits former Maine senator will attend man to accompany visiting
"Other", for voters who prefer­congestion on football weekends
students-up from 65 percent the Notre Dame-Miami game government dignitaries. It is not
red another candidate or were and that those arrangements
last year. with University President Fr. known if Indiana Senator Birch
undecided, by five percent. would be made public some time
Retention is a delicate issue Theodore Hesburgh and Bayh, who also faces opposition 
next week.
[continued on page 3] with the military programs, for CongressmanJohn Brademas of in November, will be present. 

' , 
--------------------~ 
News Brie.b 
Thursday, OCtober 2, 1980 -page 2 
~b~y~T.~n~e~O~b~se:rv:e~r~a~nd~T.~n~e:A~ss~oc:m~t~ed7P:r=~=s~~ln~s~id:e~1lh~=ur==s~d~a=y==================~;;;;;;~~~;;;;~~~;;~~~~=;~ 
Notre Dame Securityofficers arrested a burglary suspect about 2:30a.m. yesterday after the owner ofa van parked on Green Field reported a break-in. 
T~e susp7ct, DanGroves, 3~ 1 Haney St., is in CountyJail ona previously ISSued warrent wh1le the owner of the van Michael Dolli~k, a non-student who was visiting off-campus frienas, is pressmg charges. 
Security officers found Groves crouched in the back seat ofa vehicle parked next to Dollick's van and containing about $300 in stereo and citizen's band radio equipment taken from the van. -The Observer 
Givine: babies a shotof penicillin within '11 hour of birTh' will almost entirely prevent strep diseases, the ·.1ost common infection among newborn infants in the U.S., a 11ajor study shows. But though the results are promising, the ('~earchers say more tests are needed to make sure this routine 1se of penicillin would not lead to even more dangerous llnesses. The doctors who conducted the research on 18 7 38 
•.thies 
found that a quick dose of penicillin almost compl~tely . '' otected the infants from diseases caused by a bacterium called ' • roup B streptococcus. The strep germ became increasingly 

•
>mmon ?~ring the 1970s, and in some outbreaks among 1" wborns 1t IS fatal 50 percent ofthe time. The frequency ofthe i11lectio11s varies from place to place. In the Texas hospital where this study took place, the bacteria caused three or four illnesses among each 1,000 babies. The ongoing study is being conducted at Parkland Memorial Hospital in Dallas by doctors from the University ofTexas. It was published in last Thursday's 1ssue of the New England Journal of Medicine.-AP 


Su!l!~ittee ~!}!~~~ltalloc~~!!~Lt~st se~e;~
Monday night. Monies awarded were the Freshman class $300· the Mock P~litical Convention, $1 ,000; the Sociology Club' $150; ~he Jomt Engineering Council, $200; and the Teache; Educatton Forum, $50. The $1,700 allocated raises the amount to $29,813. In total, 73 requests were received, soliciting nearly $58,000. AI~ ~~oups ~warde? funds should now stop in the Student ActiVIties Off1ce to f1ll out a check requisition form in order to receive their funds. -The Observer ~ 
Republican presidential 
nominee Ronald Reagan says he would choose 
Supreme Court justices on the basis of "the whole broad 
philosophy" they would bring to the bench-and would not 
rule out jurists who support abortion. Reagan says he would 
want judges who do not "cross over the line, as manytimes the 
Supreme Court has in recent years, and usurp legislative 
functions." Reagan also said in an interview with The Associated 
Press that, if elected, he .would withdraw the Strategic Arms 
Limitation Treaty from Senate consideration and seek new 
negotiations with the Soviet Union while strengthening U.S. 
military forces. He added that he thought that there might be 
"an October surprise" in which the American hostages would 
be released by Iranian officials in an effort to influence the Nov. 
4 election in favor of Carter. 
''I'm quite sure from some of the things they've said that the 
Iranians are not exactly supporters of mine;" Reagan said. "If 
that will help bring the hostages home, fine." Reagan dealt 
cautiously with the conflict between Iran and Iraq. He declined 
to say whether he thinks American forces should be used if 
necessary to keep open the Strait ofHormuz, the sea through 
which Persian sian Gulf oil flows to the industrial West. -AP 
.President Carter olayed ublic
p1~c~man ye~terday for the beleaguerecf' U.S. auto in!ustry, 
dnvmg a shmy new car off the assembly line and urging 
consumers to test drive new American-made cars for 
themselves. On a campaign trip to a state suffering high 
unemployment-Michigan had a 14.1 percent jobless rate in 
July-Carter also promised auto workers that his admini­
stra~ion will stay "right in the trenches" in the fight to restore 
the mdustry to health. "I will not rest until the working men and 
women in the auto industry are back on the job with full-time, 
steady work," said the president, who needs strong blue-collar 
support on Election Day if he is to claim Michigan's 21 electoral 
\'Otes. In remarks to United Auto Workers union members 
working the assembly line, Carter made only passing reference 
to his re-election campaign. "I won't mention politics. I will just 
say that I want to be your president when the first boatload of 
American-built cars unloads in Yokohama (a Japanese port 
city)," Carter said, " ... and I want to help make that come 
true." -AP 
Partly sunny: and cool;od.ay.High_inthe mid 60s. Mostly cloudy and cooler tonigh.t L?w 111 the. mtd 40s. A slight chance of showers tomorrow. H1gh 111 the m1d 50s.­
AP 
Sing the blues for The Blues 

Preparations are now in the final stages for th~ first edition of the newly conceived Country Rock Jam, scheduled for November 1. And it never fails to remind us of the event it replaces, the Midwest Blues Festival, which was cancellecl. after an unprosperous run of nine years. 
By prosperous, we refer of course only to the financial side of the slate. The Board of Commissioners could only allot the MBF staff a small budget, which in turn limited its off-campus promotional capabilities and damaged the turnout of non-students. Accordingly, the Festiv.al lost money-often lots of it-every year. 
But that didn't matter. Seriously. The Sophomore Literary Festival, which works on a similar budget, doesn't get a penny in return for its efforts -no admission is charged, no refresh­ments or t-shirts are sold. But the objects of the SLF and the MBF are exactly the same: they are/were staged for the education, cultural benefit and enjoyment of the students who so vehemently decry the state of the cultural and social life here. 
However, the money that the Board of Commissioners and the Cultural Arts Commission were laying out for one of those festivals wasn't benefiting any' students, while one of them was. Although the MBF was more than adequately promoted on campus, students just didn't go. The Blues were gone. 

And that's too bad for the perhaps 95 percent of the students who don't know what they missed. If they .did, a greater portion ofthem might be upset, posstbly 6ecause most of that portion are afficionados of that brand of music known as rock 'n' roll. And it is a fact that without the Blues rock 'n' roll would never have been born. ' 
Muddy Waters, a two-time MBF performer and Hall of Fame bluesman, once wrote, "the Blues had a baby, and they named it rock 'n' roll." Rock 'n' roll owes everything to the Blues, that raw, emotive brand of strictly American culture which captured the gut passions and drives that jazz, classical or pop music could never approach. 
om 
Jackman 
Executive News Editor 
There was more to life than just sitt{ng under the 
apple tree, or taking the A train, and the Blues 
chronicled that existence perfectly. But it was too 
realistic, too raw, too vulgar: middle-class, record­
buying America wouldn't, couldn't, accept it. 
Additionally, the Blues were played mainly by 
blacks, understandable considering their predica­
ment in this country. And whites certainly weren't 
going to buy the records. It took whites whose 
sound was often mistaken for blacks-Elvis 
Presley, Buddy Holly, MickJagger-to distill the 
Blues into a homogenized form acceptable to the 
mass market. You know what happened after that. 
It is estimated that the rock group Pink Floyd 
will gross $20 million in 1980. Popular rockgroups ··regularly produce records which garner not just "gold" (500,000 units sold) records but "plati­num" (1 million units sold) records with sickening 
regularity. A million records, at seven bucks a pop. 
Blues records are deemed successful if they sell 
over 20,000 units. Formerly called "race records" 
these artists have been left in the proverbial dust. 
Rock groups today will gladly acknowledge the 
debt they owe to the Blues. Bands cover Willie 
Dixon classics like "Back Door Man" and "Little 
Red Rooster" 30 years after they were written. The 
Rolling Stones borrowed liberally from Chuck 
Berry, and the Beach Boys actually plagiarized 
Berry's "Sweet Little Sixteen" for their mass hit 
"Surfin USA." Don't think Blues artists aren't 
bitter about this-Keith Richards, guitarist for 
the Rolling Stones, recently tried to join Chuck 
Berry on. stage at a concert, normally an exciting, 
spontaneous gesture. Berry kicked the rich rocker 
off quickly. 
Last December, when the Student Union let it be known that they were considering canceling the MBF, some of us had hopes that an uproar of student protest would somehow rescue the event Visions of "Save the Blues" demonstrations danced in our heads. A deluge of letters to the editor. Petitions in the dining halls. But instead, nothing. A disappointed, if expected, silence set in, the result of the omnipresent campus apathy coupled with an unfamiliarity with the Blues itself. 
When the Festival was eventually canceled ther7 was no politics involved. In fact, it was: admittedly, a smart move. Student Union management recognized the fact that the market just didn't exist, that Student Activity fees were being used for something students didn't use. 
So they opt.ed for country rock, which is much more appealmg to the bland, unimaginative musical tastes of the median Domer. And in the process, they eliminated yet·imother venue for the display of this sincere, original musical form, to which pop genres like country rock owe so much. As th~, im?'lortal BB King once sang, "the thrill is gone. It IS not Student Government's fault it is ours. You blew it Notre Dame. ' 
The_Ohs.erY-er 
John Bonham, R.I.P. 
Saint Mary's
Design t:.drtor .... Stephen Swonk Design Assistants. : . Diedre Murphy Anne Fultz 
Outside Cafeteria 
Day/Night Technicians .......... . Bruce Oakley, Pat Di Pietro 
Neu·.r Eddor ................... . 
Tom Jackman, Lynne Da[ey Copy Editor ........ Fran Cackley Features Layout ... Scoop Sullivan 
Bier Garten 
Sports Layout .................. . Chris Needles, Beth Huffman 
6 p.m.-11 p.m.
Typists ........................ . 
Marilyn Broderick, Cindy Jones, Bridget BLoechl,Suzi Sulentic 
!:Jystems uperator.. . Lhris Albertoli 
IC::
ND Day Editor . . Patsv Campbell Photographer ......... john Macor 
Knockwurst, Pretzels,
Guest Appearances. ..... . Molly Woulfe, John "Wh~· s~~·t Me Flowers?" McGrath. Mike 
Pickles 
"Manic ~.~ech:mic" C., NoDoz 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday 
Beers
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and 
Live German Music 
Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year($1 0 per semester) by writing The 
and Dancing·
Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
(21 I.D. Required)
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Thursday, OCtober 2, 1980 -·page 3 
Council accepts new tenure plan 
cision to serve as reviewer. The promotions, or reappointment.By Marty Mosby reviewer willmake a thorough Thus, a more applicable proce­investigation, then submit fii]d­dure for appeals is needed. "The The Notre Dame Academic ings to the provost.The provost primary interest of the faculty is Council adopted Monday, on a that the appeals procedure de­
and the president, after con­
trialbasis, measures intended to velop into an entity which is
sideration of the reviewer's
expand the appeals procedure indepenQ,_ent of the first round of
findings, will decide if the appeal
for Teaching-and-Research decision makers,"according to
is justified.
faculty denied tenure, promo­Vacca.
Secondly, the appeals proce­
tions, or reappointment. Last spring, the Faculty Affairs 
dure provides for a review pro­
"It's a matter of justice," said Committee ofthe Faculty Senate 
cess bywhich the entire tenure 
Assistant Provost Sr. John presented the Academic Council 
procedure would be re-initiated 
Miriamjones. She contends that with recommendations for a
if the appeal is judged as valid. 
the Academic Council's deci­revised appeals procedure. After 
The procedure for challenging 
sionto expand the appeals pro­a lengthy discussion, the Council
a decision on the basis ofalleged
cedure grows out of an accusa­decided that the proposal needed 
procedural error or personal bias 
tion from the faculty that nega­to be refined. The three-page
will be in effect for one year,and 
. faculty recommendation was re­
tive decisions, of which there is is not, at this time, to be included 
duced by the Executive Commit­
some suspicionof procedural er­in the Academic: Manual.The 
tee of the Academic Council to
ror or personal bias, should have only such grievance procedure 
the rriore concise two-fold pro­
recour<>e. currently in print is in the Faculty cedure.
The newly adopted procedure Handbook. It stat{·S that a faculty Major changes revolve aroundis two-fold.I t initially provides member may not be censured as 
the use ofa single reviewer rather 
for the aggrieved person to con­a result of his or her ideas and 
than a review committee. 
sult with the department chair­beliefs. This appeal has been The Academic Council argues man, dean, and provost. If a used only once at Notre Dame. 
that use of a single reviewer
satisfactory conclusion cannot Robert Vacca, chairman of the 
would do more to insure con­
be reached, the provost, in con­Faculty Senate, asserts that is­
fidentiality, and that a volume
sultation withthe complainant, sues of academic freedom pro­
problem wouM be avoided if
will appoint a faculty member vide a very narrow avenue for 
there were a great number of
not involved inthe original de-challenging a decision on tenure, appeals.Faculty members feel that there is still some truth in the old adage: "Two heads are better than one". In a faculty poll which was made last year, 86 percent were in favor of esta­
• • .ROTC 
blishing a review "committee". Vacca believes that the major­(continued from page I] program and that's why it's ity ofthe faculty is ofthe opinion 
growing. There has been a that the expanded appeals pro­ly join the services. The four-year growing concern for defense, cedure is a step in the right postgraduation obligation, how­and secondly a change in the direction. "We will be interested ever, remains fixed. military's image," Gordon com­in how the effectiveness of this 
Several students are quite mented. tentative procedure will be re­pleased with the "four for four" Economic benefits are certain, viewed," he said. deal, they literally sign them­however, for a ROTC graduate,
selves into it when they make and start at $14,000 a year. Bycommittments to reserve pro­the age of 26, an air force officer grams. can earn up tQ $26,000 annually. CHICACO 

Naval ROTC student Tom Even the undergraduate pro­Maloney believes benefits gram participants who are not on triumph over obligations. "The scholarships still receive $100 a 
• • • Reagan O'HARE 

experience you get plus the month military pay during their opportunities it presents for junior and senior years. So why after graduation are fantastic. then do students drop out of the 
(continued from page I]
You really get to travel, and see programs after competing so so much too," Maloney com­fervently to gain scholarships? 
The poll surveyed 120 studentsmented. "It was not a lack of desire to selected scientifically from bothAir Force student ROTC Art serve the country, but I decided I the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Huber, who is technically out of wanted to do that in another campuses, and found that 28the program since he is on a five­way," an ex-ROTC, who wished percent are not registered to vote year program, cannot wait to , to remain anonymous, com­at all. Twenty-seven percent tarereapply and hopefully resume his: mented. "I just realized I would registered as Republicans, 23scholarship. "I was at camp this not enjoy being in charge of the percent as Democrats, and 24summer, and I came out with a weapons and all. I'm not at all percent are registered inde­really positive attitude. I'd like to down on the program; it's just pendently.
get back in and get in a navi­not for me," the student said. 
Only 21 percent of ND-SMCgator's slot," he said. Another student had second students are registered inKapinos elaborated the ROTC thoughts about spending four Indiana, which was not a largeexperience. "A lot of exposure years in a military atmosphere. "I enough number for McNallyto management and leadership just ciidn't like the obligation pollsters to conduct a preterence
opportunies are gained. And a student gets to travel; that leads to maturity," he explained. 
Could it be, though, that the ROTC programs glimmer all the brighter as the economy dims? 
"It's much more difficult to get jobs. ROTC can guarantee a student a job, and a good one. Parents are also under a financial crunch. A Notre Dame educa­tion costs $30,000. So any way a student can get through college becomes acceptable to parents," Kapinos speculated. 
"I don't think the economr, plays that great of a role,' Gordon said, "because I have not met an unemployed Notre Dame graduate yet. I would like to think that ours is a good 
(continued on page 5l tally on the Indiana races. 
Observer announces mock election deadline for today 
Students, bothgraduate and undergraduate, have until3 p.m. this afternoon to cast their ballots in The Observer's mock political election. Students need only present their ID cards to vote, and they can do so in the Tom Dooley Room ofLaFortune (the trophy room between the Huddle and the main lobby) on the ND campus, or in the main lobby of LeMans Hall at Saint Mary's. However, polling places will close at 3 p.m., so vote now. Results will be announced in tomorrow's Observer. 

Senior Bahamas Trip (10/19 · 10/25) update . • • TRAVEL NIGHT OCT· 13 'at SMC Spm You need a visa, voter's registration or 
copy of birth certificate to be admitted into the Bahamas. · ~ Any questions? call, Anne Fink, Martha Heusmann or Donna Shannon 
AIRPORT 
Students were also asked if EXPRESS they watched the televised 
2
debates between Reagan and Anderson last week-65 TRIPS DAILY 
SUNDAY THRU FRIDAY
percent did not. Students were 
ONLY
also asked whether they plan to par_ticipate in today's Observer $1soomock election, and 61 percent 
iround trip $28.00) 
replied that they did. The McNally Research Group, 
287-6541
which conducted the poll, is a 
OR
private, non-profit marketing 
234-2196
research organization. The figures they have provided The Observer are rounded to the 
(II}
nearest whole number, and have an error margin of four percent. 
In future weeks, the McNally poll will survey students on their preferences on issues of both national and local significance for The Observer. 
Let's JAM! The NDSU Presents COUNTRY ROCK JAM Nov. 1 Stepan Center Five Bands . Including The VASSAR CLEMENTS BAND and JOHN HALL of Orleans STUDENT TICKET LOnERV: Sunday, Oct. 5, 7 p.m. LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
Tickets $4 ·each. General Admission. Bring your ticket money with you. Limit four (4} tickets per person. Payable by cash or check. Also on sale, Chicken Barbecue tickets at $3.50 each. 

The Observer Thurday, October 2, 1980-page 4 

The Empty Keg 
SMC offers alternative 
By Cathy Domanico to provide ND-SMC students Keg are as follows: Oct. 10 ­with good music and good at­Professional talent night, featur­
A new, non-alcoholic bar mosphere," she said. ing local professional musicians; opened recently at Saint Mary's. Ramker also stated that she Nov. 1 -Comedy impressionist "The Empty Keg," sponsored does not foresee any problems night, followed by short comedy and funded by the Student concerning alcohol at the Empty films starring W.C. Fields; Nov. Alcohol Prevention Board, of­Keg. "Students can come know­14-ND-SMC Student Night;
fers an alternative to weekend ing that they won't be pressured Nov. 21 -Faculty/Staff night.drinking, according to pro­into drinking." A "gong show" is planned for prietor Anita Ramker. Ramker believes that the the Empty Keg sometime during
The SMC Student Union and Empty Keg has been very suc­the first week in December. the SAPB want to create a new cessful so far. "We soon hope to Finally, on Dec. 12, an Audience social atmosphere on the SMC open the Empty Keg weekly Caroling Night is featured, fol­campus, and according to because it has been a real hit." lowed by entertainment by local 
Ramker, "people come to the But Ramker hinted at some choirs. Free refreshments will be 
Empty Keg to be entertained, "administrative" problems con­served. 
not because it is a non-alcoholic cerning the location and perm­
bar. It is a good place to socialize anence of the coffeehouse.
The beautiful weather draws even the most studious out 
and meet new people. Our aim is Tentative plans for the Empty
ofdoors. [photo by john Macor] 

Dr. Chang Pu 
. :. ·' :. :. : _·.
__,_you need big 
speaks
you ask good friends. 
on China 
By Shetla Shunick 
Dr. Chang Pu, a 1961 graduate ofPeking Medical College who is conducting cancer research on campus with Dr. Morris Pollard, participated in a question and answer forum on MainlandChina 
:~ last night in Grace Pit. Dr. Chang, who worked at the
~­
. 
Institute of Basic Medicine in Peking for about 20 years, spoke through her translator Nai-Zhong Huang, a graduate of 
·the University of Peking. She answered a wide range of questions that dealt with such issues as the effects of western­ization on China; the feelings of most Chinese people today a­bout Mao Tse-tung; the concept of individual rights versus the rights of the society; the woman's role in Chinese Society; religion (or the lack of it) in China; and the general standard of living in China today. 
Discussions ofthis type, which are open to the public, are held every Tuesday evening by the International Student Organiza­tion. According to Third World Commissioncr Mark Pasquerilla, this organization is trying to create interest in world-wide problems while showing that ND's foreign students can be a tremendous resource for learn­ing. 
:; :: 
Mardi Gras 
app-'ications 
:; :. 
available 
Applications for Mardi Gras Funds are now available at the Student Activities Office. Dead­line for applying is Friday, October 3, 1980. 
When you ask good 
fliends for a favor, you know' 
\Vhat they're going to say. So 
you tell them you're moving 
·•· !~ . 
again and then wait for the hrroans to stop. They may not . :. like the idea. but you knqw ~-: ; 
they're going to be there. 
When you're finished, these 
people are going to deserve 
something special. Tonight, 
Jet it be Lowenbrau. 

::: ;: ;. 
·--------------------­

----·----------­

The Observer Thursday, O~ober '2, 1980-page 5 

• • .ROTC 
(continued from page 3} 
that came with it. I feel a civilian­type career job is for me. In the army, I'd feel closed off," the student said. 
And then there are those students who support ROTC in the most patriotic fashions. "You will hear people say we should not have a military at all. 
Coalition 
sponsers 
conference 
The Justice and Peace Center and the World Hunger Coalition are co-sponsoring a conference on disarmament and world development. The conference, entitled Swords into Ploughshares: A Questfor Peace in the Modem World, 
will be held Friday at 7 p.m. and Saturday at 9:30 a.m. in the Library Auditorium. The guest speaker is Bishop Thomas Gumbleton. The public is welcome. 
... .. 
.. •)_,.,
-•.... 
• 
Susan Groeshel takes time off from rehearsals of ''He Who Gets Slapped'' to concentrate on another interest, costume design. [photo by john Macor] 
Student Union Presents:
Hall VP's 
VAN LINES 
-Your weekend transportation
to elect 
off campus Tickets $1 ooISemester
CLC reps 
at ticket office in Lafortune at dining halls this week 
There will be a meeting of all , hall vice-presidents Sunday, October 5 at 6:30 p.m. in the 
* Look for route itinerary 
LaFortune· Little Theatre. The. purpose of the meeting is tol select CLC representatives. 
Services Commission 
The general public and the adolescent philosopher are not willing to accept the conse­quences of this. We would have a very difficult time maintaining life in America if we didn't en­force our national policy. So if someone has to do it, then why not get the benefits?" 
Those benefits are no longer restricted solely to males, for once Notre Dame went co­educational, the ROTC pro­grams followed suit. "The per­centage offemale c:adets remains about the same as the University ratio," Kapinos commented. 
Female cadets, do not have to meet exactly the same physical requirements as those required of the men. Women have modified physical requirements to fulfill. 
"Most of the guys are pretty open minded," ROTC Betsey Spmelli commented, "and ifthey do resent us, they keep it to themselves." She added, however, that sometimes "grumblings" arise when the men see the women meeting the modified requirements. 
The female ROTCs, however, like their male counterparts, would be first to go to war if an international confrontation erupted. But at present, war is something that, hopefully, can 
f t• 
.f 
be avoided, and marching, hopefully, can be confined to a dormitory parking lot rather than a trench. As one ROTC concluded, "You will never find anyone in the military who does not pray for peace." 
SMC blackout scheduled for 
Saturday 
On Saturday there will be an electrical power shutdown at Saint Mary's for the purpose of re-routing electrical service around the construction site for the new library. The Convent area, Regina Hall and Augusta Hall will not be affected. 
Wark will proceed according to the following schedule: At 6:30a.m. all the buildings will be without electrical power. At 7 
a.m. the power will return to the following buildings: Angela Athletic Facility, Club House, Dining Hall, Holy Cross Hall, College Maintenance Building, McCandless Hall, Moreau, Riedinger House, and Security. 
The following buildings will remain without power until2:30 p.m.: Havican Hall, LeMans Hall, Library, Madeleva, and the Science Building. 
At 2 p.m. all the buildings will again be without electrical power. At 2:30 p.m. the power will return to the following buildings: Angela Athletic Facility, Club House, Dining Hall, Holy Cross Hall, College Maintenance Building, McCandless Hall, Moreau, Riedinger House, and Security. 
Between 2:30 and 3 p.m. the power will return to the follow­ing buildings: Havican Hall, LeMans Hall, Library, Madeleva, and the Science Building. 
All power should be restored by 3 p.m. 
Dining halls off(}r 
free lunch 
Any three or more students can take their favorite professor to lunch free in campus dining halls every weekday. Tickets are available through the student government, in the student government office in LaFortune. Co-Ex tickets are also available every day except Saturday for ND students wishing to eat at Saint Mary's. 
NOTRE DAME UNITED WAY 1980 
One of several controversial billboards across campus reports the progress ofthe annual United Way Campaign. [photo by john Macor] 

Cll"t: full 

(A11cl ruCl~t; fn()llt;l (()()•••) ·Is looking for design assistants 

N.D. STUDENT PLAYERS PRESENTS:
AI 
SHOT 
IN 
THE 
DARK 
October 3,4, I0, II 
• 
contemporary arts Tickets iAvailable· &t StJ Ticket Office 

Editorials 

SMC student government responds to United Way 
On behalf of the Saint Mary's 1 As student leaders our power student body, endorsement of 
student government, we would goes only so far as the students, the United Way as "the" campus SMC Student Governmentcharity. There cannot be a cam­
like to address the concerns of our constituents, allow it to go. 
pus charity without the consent
the SMC .Math Department. Previously, faculty and ad­approach that they-have taken the legitimacy of student leaders
of the student body, and therein 
Among thetr concerns are: that ministrators involved with the towards the United Way Fund. 
collecting funds for a charity' not
lies the dilemma of student
student government.is ':lot aware United Way Fund have used Our method of decision-making endorsed by the studen body asleaders.
ofthe needs ofthe Mtchtan~ area, .student government as the col­was based upon the results of "the" campus charity. 
that student government ts pur-lection agency for the student We feel that the Math surveys taken in the residence poselywithholdingsupportfrom body. By using student govern­Department should be applaud­halls. The student consensus was Student government leaders at 
'the Unite Way Fund and finally, ment as a collection agency the ing their student government that United Way would not be Saint Mary's continually strive to that student government is not image projected has been that of leaders for the ethical, thought­"the" campus charity. The only be workers in the name ofChrist,acting in the name of Christ. a student government, and thus a ful, and genuinely objective issue that was ever discussed was active and reflective. To imply 
Social doings at Notre Dame 
"It's another Friday night and we have nothing to do." So goes it for Notre Dam~ students. The evening progresses, as does the empty beer can brigade, and the topic ofconversation leads to the University and its major inadequacy -lack of neutral social space. A place where one can get away from academic pressure and relax and "blow-off" youthful pent-up . energy. A place that would enhance normal and healthymale/temale interaction, unlike the structured-classroom ana rushed cafeteria atmosphere. 
; 
Last. M_ay the Student Go-vernment resea_rc_hedth_is.; pr.qb.Ie_._m_._·
and presented a well·developed proposal to the >Board of Trustees' subcommittee on Student Affairs. The intention (Jf 
the proposal was to heighten the awareness of the Tru!>tees concerning this major problem, and resulted in asking for a feasibility study to be done on the size, location and major components of a new student center. ihe center was to encompass such facilities as a movie theatre, bowling alley, 'mack bar. game room, etc. · 
The subcommittee responded positively to the proposal and promised to submit and support it before the general Board. They suggested a stud)' be made for short term solutions to this problem and urged that we make use of existing facilities because the new _Jitudent center could not be built in the 
foreseeable future. 
What haptJened thereafter with our proposaL.we are still uncertain. The content and context of the general Board meeting seems to be highly classified information. But from what we can gather tnis year is, instead .of the proposed feasibility study being pushed at the meetmg, the sulic<;>m­mittee emphasized snort term solutions to the problem (t.e~,New Chautauqua}. All Trustee members agreed thataproble111 existed, but the New Chautauqua wouldseem to fill the present void, thus pacifying t.he students. · 
Returning toschool, we were optirnisticaboutwhatmlS'htp,e. happening to combat the problem of lack of neutral &Of1ab space. Itwas notuntil t~e ~~cond week ofs_c_,h_ool_ whe_n_.·w__.efin_a1Jy_ :: 
deduced that the feastbthty study was reJected. No one tn. Student Government was ever told that for a fact. But that WilS not the only problem to our cause. The Saint Ed's fire CilUsed 
overcrowding in many dorms. Female students were being housed in not only basements and study lounges, but even across the highway. The "campus" bars were either dosed or carding heavily. The off-campus situation was growing worse by the day. Instead of coming back to a bright and optimistic future, things were looking grim. Then to top it off, the New Chautauqua proposal fell through. 
Doonesbury 
.. ANI?NC¥U!HATC/?HA9 
(j(X)f) /.LICK 70
HYPNOTIZBJ 7HC 5HAflK, HE 
'!W 8(J!H, EJ)
Mit PLAC£ H/9 RVE-YEAR.­
ANO MARKY1 THANKS,
{ OW SCW, MM/<:'1, IN ~ 
IJe M1AZING! JOfiN OKAY,
' rANI<. TO 9HOIAJ 7HAT THE 
SON.IN
SHARK HA5 8EaJME aJM­
~ '!WGO!
~ -Pl£raY/ HARMLESS! ! 
Don .lvfurday 
So here we are now. The problem has multiplied tremendously and we are still at square one when it comes to 
solutions. 
Student Government and the Student Union have been working together in an attempt to come up with short term answers, but there is only so much we can do with our existing facilities. Not surprising because of its athletic~oriented atmosphere, the three largest structures (outlets) are the ACC, Rockne and the newly-floored Stepan. For those who choose not"to workout," our student center would seem the logical place to. relax. LaFortune is a truly unique student center, Last year we complained that it was used as a study lounge and cafeteria, with the main concourse cluttered with tables and ; 
ch<~.irs. It is ra~ely used for <~.ny so~i~l rel<~._xation or int·e·raction To correct thts problem the Adm1mstrat1on brought down th.e ballroom furniture into the concourse. Only two years ago tt was moved from the concourse to the ballroom. Someone once remarked that social visiting is done on the second floor of the library and studying is done in LaFortune. There are plans .to have parties in the cafeterias, or in Stepan, but we lack the soctai facilities to adequately satisfy the needs of 6,500 students. 
So now we are coming to you, our fellow students, andasking you to become more aware ofwhat is going on. It is. time for us to take our own initiative and begin to speak out for what we 
feel is needed. The current status of the campus atmosphere sheds light ona glaring inadequacy ofthe University. Because of ,the priority given academics here, other areas ofdevelopment, especially emotional and social, are "out of whack." The students need a place where social relief and comfort can be found----' one whose_ environmen! is conducive to intellectual, 
socialandemotional interaction. lt is a cri~e when weatehaid~ pressed to find a place to take adate, oreven anacquaintance; a place where one can "kick b<~.ck and relax." We a{e worried when we see our friends leaving school unable to ,cope, constantly coming in drunk, or just being too ten~e to be 
•·.around. Instead of seeing students blooming into adulthood, 
we are horrified to  see  them stagnate socially and become  
demoralized.  ·  
This  week  you  will  receive  a  survey  from  S~udent  

.Government concerning social life. Please ·take the tlme ~o answer the questions seriouslv. Wtth your.cooperaton we wtll 
be able to show concrete signs' ofsupport to theAdminis~ration and Trustees. More importantly, WJth the students backmg us, wewllnot let the Administration rest until we see positive signs that they are addressing the problem also. 

by Garry Trudeau 

that student government is unaware of the needs of the Michiana area and is not a monetary contributor to the community is false. The number ofstudent leaders and students at large involved in the workings of the Michiana community is exemplary of their sensitivity to the needs of the people. Saint Mary's student government al­
ways gives a sizable amount of 
their monies to community organizations such as LoganCenter, Sr. Maritas, CANCO, etc 
The success ofa charity should not, and is not, dependent uponthe involvement of student gov~rnment leaders in the col­lectiOn process. 
We do 1ealize that the handi­capped, the unemployed, the poor, the aged, and the already disadvantaged brothers and sisters in our neighborhoods of South Bend would be the ones to suffer if the United Way Fund ·. Drive was discountinued. Fortunately, the United Way Fund Drive is well under way on the Saint Mary's campus. The only difference is the collector<;. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Ed;tor-m-Ch;ef . Paul Mullaney S,\fC Nf'u s Editor ... _....... Mary Leavit 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
,\fanu!;zng Edt tor . . ... Mark Rust Sj>orts Editor... . Beth Huffmar The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Edtlunals Editor Mike Onufrak University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily 
Ft!.Jiures Editor __ . .... Molly WoulfeSt.•mur Cuf') Edttur. . . _Lmne Daln
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported 
Photo Editor ....... .... John Macor
Neu·s Edttur.... _Pam Degnan
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represem the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views Neu·s Edttur . Tom _I ackman Rusmess Manager __ ._. __ .. Greg Hedges of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and Production Mana!;er . . . . _I ohn McGrath :1dz•erttsinf!. Manager .. Mike Holsingt:. the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC Executiz·e blttur .. Margie Brassil 
Features 
Thursday, October 2, 1980-page 7 

their success and the cause of their current slide. After one pulls himself out of obscurity to the top, as lead vocalist and the rest of his band have done, lethargy and laziness are often the result. After all, when one reaches the pinnacle of success, what else is there to shoot for? Eventually, one realizes that the hold on Number 1 isn't eternal, and the paranoia sets in. Such is the case for The Cars, who are attempting to fend off challengers to America's top New Wave group with an emphasis on cool professionalism. But having little competition can make one too smooth, and thus predictable. 
The Cars are indeed professionals, with a lot of well-practiced hits. Their first album, The Cars, delivers a knock­out on every track. Their second round, Candy-o, wins on a decision. It was here that Ocasek & Co. began to abandon the gutsy, guitar-oriented, New Wave sound and rely more heavily upon Greg Hawkes' keyboards in a Phil Spector-ish "wall of sound" approach. Though this strategy was successful commercially, critics feared it would lead into less of a defined sound. 
Their third and newest comeback, Panorama, doesn't quite match Muhammad Ali's three-time perfor­mance. (No prediction on tonight's fight will be found here, incidentally.) 
to indulge in subtle and slowly evol­ving shades of tonal colors and harmonic densities, which frankly grows tiresome. In short, Hawkes is boring -with a capital "B." 
Obviously, Ocasek attempted to 
•balance the energy of the first album with the layered approach of the second. This project, if successful, would have been a worthwhile and enjoyable achievement, but instead, Panorama has polarized the disparity of the two approaches even further. The result is predictable music-and lots of yawns. 
SCoop Sullivan 
Scoop needs writers and reviewers learned in classical 
and jazz! 
Call him at 1772, now! 
Rock Trivia II 
Last week's quiz was, admttted/y, tough. But I dtd have a winner who managed to answer allten oflast week's questions correct­ly. The onlyproblem is that I don'thavehisor her name avarlable yet. I wt!l know by next week, however. At that time, I willannounce both last week's and this week's winner of 
$10. 
The answers to last week's quiz will appear following this week's quiz questions. Remember, the deadline for efttries, which should be submitted to the Observer ofji"ce on the thirdfloor ofLaFortune, is !loon Frtday. Good luck! 
This week I am going to mention ten fairly obscure groups from the past. Each of these groups yielded one member who became famous later on, either as a member ofanother group or as a solo act. Your task is to name the member of the band who did so. 
1. 
The Idle Race 

2. 
Bluesology 

3. 
Wino in the Willows 

4. 
Chicken Shack 

5. 
The Nice 

6. 
Dr. Zoom and the Sonic Boom 



Rossington Collins Band MCA 
On the cover of the Rossington­Collins Band's first album, Anytime Anyplace Anywhere, a cosmic phoenix is depicted rising from the flames of some unknown disaster. It is, of course, a metaphor for the rise of this 
band out of the ashes of America's premier Southern Rock band, Lynyrd Skynyrd, and that rise is .no less than 
· spectacular. 
In 1977, touring behind their finest studio album, Skynyrd was on top of the world when a plane crash took the lives of their lead singer and one of their three lead guitarists. The rest of the band has regrouped though, led by sur\!iving guitarist-s Gary Rossington and Allen Collins, and they have replaced Steve Gaines with Barry Harwood, and inserted a woman vocalist, Dale Krantz, in place of the irreplaceable Ronnie VanZant. It was a gutsy move, sticking a woman in the midst of these macho, brawling, hard­living rockers, but Krantz' sheer force 
and talent make it work. 
Krantz hails from nearby Angola, Indiana, not often mentioned in discussions of rock 'n' roll capitals of t}le world. Yet, she has the cocky self­assurance, as well as the vocal ability, to fit right in. In "Don'tMisunderstand Me," she writes, "Don't be second guessin 'bout where you want to be/Baby count your blessings cause you won't find one like me." When she can sing a line like that, and pull it off, you know something's going right. 
"Don't Misunderstand Me" also showcases the band's other new talent, guitarist Harwood, who contributes nicely to a duet with Krantz with his agreeable tenor. He concludes the 
7. 
Stealers Wheel 

8. 
The James Gang 

9. 
The "'R.inky Dinks 

10. 
Circus Maximus 


The answers to last week's quiz are as follows: (1) Mick Jagger backed up Carty Simon; (2) Eric Clapton played lead guitar on "While My Guitar Gently Weeps;" (3) Bob Dylan played harmonica for Harry Belafonte; (4) Jimmy Pa~e I?layed guitar on "It''s Not 
Unusual;' (5) Paul McCartney helped the Beach Boys with production;(6) Ray Stevens clapped his hands for the Archies; (7) The Nitty Gritty Dirt Band (as they were known then) provided accompaniment for Steve Martin; (8) 
Brian Jones played saxophone for tht Beatles; (9) Stevie Nicks sang for John Stewart; and (lO}Joha Lennon helped Elton John on "Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds." 
Tim Neely 
song, a reunion of slowly drifting 
lovers, by telling Krantz, "Well now 
lady let me tell ya what we're gonna do 
(uh huh?)/We're gonna ride every 
highway." Well, in the South, that's 
some pebple's idea of rllmance. 
Harwood's guitar work also stands out, even among such established stars as Collins and Rossington, especially on "Opportunity." His lead runs are unrelenting, rumbling ceaselessly upward to create the air oftension that Krantz abets with her diatribe toward a presumptuous acquaintance. 
Krantz almost steals the srow from 
the superlative instrumentalists who propelled Lynyrd Skynyrd to the top of the Southern Rock heap. On "Misery Loves Company," her great, pained moans re-emphasize the bitterness she feels as a jilted lover seeking solace, and a background of Skynyrd's sig­nature riffs recreate the same atmos­phere Ronnie VanZant brought home to us so many times in his career. 
On "Prime Time," Krantz' sassy slur 
agrees perfectly with a standard 
Skynyrd declaration that the weekend 
("prime time") is back and it's time to 
kick some more ass. She challenges 
you to cross her, and her jagged, 
spiteful shout makes you hesitate to do 
so. 
Let's not forget the band, even if their virtuosity is not featured a~ heavily as on earlier standouts like Street Survivors or the live One More From the Road Keyboardist Billy Powell, who I regard as no less than a legend, gets to let loose only twice. His talent shines on his solo in "Prime Time" again displaying his remarkable ability to play melodic progressions ofarpeggios so fast your eyes blink. His presence is felt undeniably on most songs on Allytime, but he doesn't get to solo a~ much as he should. 
As usual, Allen Collins contributt.. several fine lead guitar parts, mm1 notably on the gospeVblues pieu "Three Times as Bad," which i• enhanced by Powell's stately organ Gary Rossington'sguitar work is just a~ evident, especially his slide effort on "Sometimes You Can Put it Out." 
It's a solid Skynyrd album, but it must be noted that Krantz must strain for the credibility that Van boozy swagger ensured. As a Skynyrd faithful may be disappointed with this the band recaptures the which they last attained in 1 listeners get used to the Krantz1 things will return to With the Allman Brothers Molly Hatchet (minus their lead still around, it could be time Southern Rock renaissance. 
Tom Jackman 
The Cars 
Panorama 
Electra 
The two primary complaints about the Cars' concert appearance at Notre Dame on September 11 were that the show was too short and the music too repetitive. Why anyone would want to hear a longer sampling of the Cars' trademarked terse and brief material seems sadistic at best; the style ofthis neo-New Wave group strategically assaults the listener with quick, punching tempos and fast bursts of syncopated rhythm, much like a well-tr.ained professional boxer. 
It doesn· t take many heavy htts to get the recipient staggering. Hence, the show was but a mere hour or so. 
The Cars' professionalism is the life and death ofthe group-the source of Even the greatest ones fall eventually, and it appears that The Cars may be losing their hold on America's New Wave title. 
There is some good stuff on the LP. Whenever Ocasek allows lead guitarist Elliot Easton to play some crisp riffs and indulge in some rock-n-roll, the song is a success. Examples of this include "Gimme Some Slack," and the first single release, "Touch and Go." Ocasek also loosens up his mechanistic vocals somewhat, attempting to convey some aimost human emotion through inflection and accent. Unfor­tunately, his melodic range is severely limited, and only on "Up and Down" and "Don't Tell Me No" is it remotely successful. In other words, Ocasek's forte is the monotone. 
The rest of the LP is a letdown. The dreaded synthesizer takeover has 
occurred, pulling The Cars even further away from the energy of New Wave and into the humming and buzzing drones of electronic medioc­rity. Hawkes simply cannot provide anything refreshing, stimulating, or particularly melodic to occupy the listener's time with. He prefers rather 

r---------------~----------~----------------~----­
Ihe~~r============================~==-============ 
~«:)c:lC3L~======================T=h=u=rs=d=ay=,=O=ct=o=be=r=2=,=19=8=0=-=pa=g=e==8
by Michael Molinelli
CampUs 
12:20 p.m., lecture, "poetry and die philosophy of un­truth," ramakrishna nandyal, library lounge. 
7 & 10 p.m., film, "fiddler on the roof," eng. aud., $1 
7 & 10 p.m., film, "the sound of music," carroll hall (smc), $1 
7:30 
p.m., film, "the blue ·;ngel," washington hall, $1 

7:30 
p.m., lecture, ·'potential of the evaporitic environment as a source of petroleum," robert evans, amer. assoc. of petro. geo­logists, 101 earth sciences bldg.


7:30p.m., signup, pitt club 
hus for fall breaK, lafortune 
theater. 
8 p.m., play, "he who gets 
;lapped," nd/smc theatre, 
o'laughlin auditorium. 
9 p.m., music, george wilmes and andy hicks, the nazz. 
Van Lines 
begin 
busing 
The Student Activities-spon­sored "Van Lines" will be busing students to South Bend night spots this, and every, Friday and Saturday evenings. Semester bus passes are available in the Student Union ticket office all semester, and in the dining halls during dinner this week, for $1. 
The bus runs from 6 p. m to midnight, except on home foot­ball weekends, leaving the Main Circle on the hour, and featuring trips to Town and Country Mall, University Park Mall, and North Village Mall. The three movie theaters along the route-Town and Country, University Park and Forum Cinema-all offer discount movie tickets of up to 60 percent off through the Student Union ticket office and Student Activities. 
Pre-Law Society sets deadline 
The Pre-Law Society will not be taking dues after Friday, Oct. 
3. Please bring your $3.00 and 
application form to 101 O'Shaughnessy. 

Peanuts 
MA~6E I{OU'RE A 11 RUFOU5-SIDED TOW~EE:~. L(OV KNOW WHAT TI{E'( 001 
-

tf-2'1 © 1980 United Feature Syndicate, Inc. 

7141NG6 ARE" G£"7/JNG, loD ROUC:?H ()l.Jf THERE, HEAD INJLRIP:-·, N~CK 
Tl-iE'r' 60," GlUP CI1UP CHUP ZEEEEEEEE:'AND THE'r' RUMMAGE NOI51U( AMON6 DEAD LEAVES..• 
~~~~~ 
-... _ ~ ~~ .... -. 
by Charles Schulz 



NO 1980 UNITED WAY STUDENT DRIVE Participation Chart 100 percent 90 percent 60 percent 70 percent . 60 percent 50 percent 40 percent 30 percent 20 percent . 10 percent 0 percent c: J: c: > a; a; <I> '0 c: > c: c: E u "' "' c: 01 !! 0 " c: J: ~ g c: c; ic: 0 >~ ~ c: 0 2 0 ~ .0 5 00.., 0 u <I> ~ N.c " 0 iS .2 .:;: 0 ~ ~ 0.. c: ..: 0 <I> 01> "' "' r c:0 0 0 .~C: > 0 "' ::;:<I> 0..0 r vi<I> u.;; "We're all in this together!"  



The Observer 
Thut'sday, October 2, 1980-page 9 
In Kalamazoo 
SMC tennis in action 
''The match was a rough one
by Beth Huffman 
for Patsy,'' said Ginger Oak­
Sports Editor 
man, the Belle mentor. "She's used to beating everybody easily."
Saint Mary's tennis team Central Michigan, who fin­travels to Kalamazoo, Mich. 
ished in the cellar of the Notrethis weekend for what looks to Dame tourney with a 0-5-1be a tough tri-meet. The Belles slate, could present Saintwill face both Western Mich­Mary's with additional pro­igan and Central Michigan, blems. THe Belles tied the rwo teams that competed in the Central team 3-3 on Courtneyrecent Irish lnvitaUWJal. 
courts.
Western Michig["n, winner ''I think we should do really of Notre Dame's seven team well,"said Oakman, who is in
tournament last weekend, 
her first year at Saint Mary's.
poses perhaps the toughest "Some of the matches we lostcompeution for the Belles. the last weekend were reallyWestern team defeated Saint close.''
Mary's 4-2 in that invitational Following the Kalamazoowith even star singles player, weekend Saint Mary's will~atsy Coash, having a tough 
return home to host a match ume. with Butler. the match, re­
Coash, who won the number­scheduled because ofa rainout,one singles play in the Irish will begin at 3 p.m. on Mon­Invitational, has not lost a set day. The Belles will remainall season. But, Sue Weigand, idle followin~ the Butler clashwho finished second to coash at until the Indiana state tourna­
the tourney, gave the fiesty The Notre Dame Rugby Club wzll he in action this weekend as they host their n·vals from
ment for Division III on Octo­
Belle sophomore a tough the nearby South Bend Rugby Club. [Photo by Rick Salvino[
ber 17.
Match. 


Thutsday 
_...Montagano 
[continued from page 12] 
'7pm-3am
Saturday, he belted a home run, and Sunday, 
But nowjim Montagano knew why Ted he singled home the tying run with rwo out in Williams ha said that hitting a baseball is t6he the bottom of the seventh inning. epitome of athletic accomplishment. "It's a thrill to see him play again," Mrs. 
When other athletes compete, their biggest Montagano gushes. "It's one of the greatest fear is of failure. When a baseball player steps joys of my life--I've watched Jim play baseball 
DRAFTS 3/Jl.OO
into the batter's box, he lives with the nagging since he was nine years old, and I don't think thought that a fastball in the wrong place could I've ever missed a home game." end his career. Or his life. Togehter, mother and son don't think about 
Months later, after all his Notre Dame what happened lasts spring. 
Kamikazees .75
teammates had left for home, stsill carrying the A few weeks back, Jim was involved in a play bitter taste of rejection by the NCAA tourna­at the plate. When he got back to the du~out, 
ment selection committee in their mouths, Jim Montagano began to play baseball again. 
At first, he wore a protective mask, spending hours on end trying to get his timing back. And then, he got the OK to catch again. To squat sown behtnd the batter and try to srab a ball moving 85 miles an hour after it's upped by a bat just inches in front of his nose. And inches in front of his cheekbone. 
And now, Jim Momagano is playing for Notre Dame again. And his mother is still in the stands. 
This weekend, she had a lot to cheer about. And this time, she was cheering about her son. 
SMC field hockey: Down, but not out 
hy Hritm Hexlall!' · Sportr lr'n!er 
You cannot tell a book by its cover, and in much the·'·' me way, you can't tell a team sometimes by its record. Thus when you look at the St. Mary's field hockey team's record of 2-4 this season, don't count the Belles out for the remainder ofthe year. 
"We have had some injuries which have slowed us," explains coach Marcee Wiese. "And on the whole, the positive has out­weighed the negative. We have looked good even in our losses. Why, our worst defeat was4-0­
and that was with injuries." 
St. Mary's, in fact, has lost rwo one-goal games and Wiese at­tributes that to a lack of aggres­sion. But defensively, she has nothing but praise for her club. Sophomore Monique Fedor has been very impressive as the Belle goalie this year. 
"Our goaltemling has been great," said Wiese, "and ifwe can get things moving a little more offensive}y• we should certainly I tmprove. 
Senior captain BNh Welsh has carried much of the offense, scuting both St. Mary's goals in last Saturday's 2-1 victory over DePauw. Freshman Maureen Packer, a goalie in high school, has turned into a valuable for­ward for Wiese's team as well. 
After Saturday's game at Marion, the Belles have nearly a week to prepare for their Oct. I 0 match up against Notre Dame on 
. Cartier Field. "We're really look­ing forward to that game," says Wiese. 
"I think we can get moving af we continue into the season," she continues. "We will be shooting for the state tournament after October break and right now it's a matter of getting the 
1team motivated for that." 
assistant coach Ray Lentych admonished him to PNI!!~~~~~~'""!!"'~-~~~~~~~----------'1 
keep his catcher's mask on at all times.
"I told him not to even talk about it," says Montagano.. ''I'm not thinking about it, and I don't want anyone else to. If everybody else 
starts talking about it, then I'll end up thmking
about it, and that's the worst thing that could happen."
Mom agrees. "We don't talk about it at all," she says.
"We feel that it's something that just had to happen, and that it will never happen again.
Jim's playing as well as he ever has." And she should know. 
A"-'YTH 1NG GROWS
' •Ll 10% DISCOUNT PRESENT THIS
FLORIST -campus delivery
HOUSE PLANTS COUPON ND-SMC 9/80
GIFTS, CORSAGES 
N. IRONWOOD
272­
HOUSE PLANTS at GIFTS, TELEFLORIST 8820 TODLILRERCOTALDY I lWIRE FLOWERS EAST of CAMPUS 
1/4mi. N. of Douglas 
·----~~~~~.n~~~----------~~---------~ 
... 
Sports Special -Men's Tennis Thursday, October 2, 1980 -page 10 
Fall Invitational 
Irish men shoot to regain title 
by Michael Ortman Associate Sports Editor 
Their theme song last spring was Kenny Loggins' "This Is It." For those .same Notre Dame tennis players, this weekend is it in terms offallcompetition as they host the 11th annual Notre Dame Invitational tomorrow and Saturday at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
The Irish men hope to capture the title which has eluded them forfive years 'iince Miami (Ohio) took it away ~n 1975. The defending champion Redskms have won the crown four of the last five years .mdjoin the Irish as two of the pre­rournament favorites in thestrongeight­team field. 
"The invitational is very important to tiS," says Irish coach Tom Fallon, now in his 25th Y>ar at the helm. "It may be o~r only major competition ofthe fall, but 1t .t:ives us a chance to really seewhere we -;tand now in relation to where we left off in May. We try to arrange a tentative lineup to work with through the winter, and we also keep an eye open for the best possible doubles combinations." 
After the Invitational, Fallon's players will settle in for the long winter of indoor practice as they gear up for the spring season.This year, the Irish are looking to reach the 20-win plateau for the third straight season (20-8 in '79, 20­3 in '80). And with seven ofeight starters returning, that may not be too tall an order to fili.Only Carlton Harris, last year's number-two singles man,is lost through graduation. 
The list of entries for the Invitational 
will be identical to that of a year ago. 
Purdue and perennial Big Ten power 
Indiana will represent their conference, 
and Western Michigan will join Miami as 
thea State, Oral Roberts and Illinois 
State complete the list of visiting 
schools. 
Notre Dame faced all but one of this year's contestants (Miami) in dual match competition last year, winning five and losing just one. The Irish knocked offlndiana State (7-2), Purdue (7-2), Indiana (7-2) and Western Michiagn (5-4) last spring, and Oral Roberts (5 1/2-2 1/2)during last fall's Invitational. Illinois State won a rain­shortened second-round match last fall, 
5-2. . 
Herb Hopwood (see feature below)! will lead his teammates this year. The• senior captain from Arlington, Va., climbs from the number-three spot to the singles position vacated by Harris. 
In doubles play, Hopwood will team with fellow-senior Mark Hoyer at first doubles. Last spring, a Hopwood/Harris duo finished with a sizzling 20-3 slate, narrowly missing an NCAA tournament bid. 

Sophomore Mark McMahon once again will fill the tough number-one position where he finished the spring campaign with a 14-7 slate (16-7 overall). The San Diego, Cal., native will join Tom Hartzell of Rochester, N.Y., on the team's only coast-to-coastdobles tandem. 
Hoyer will play in his fourth different singles position in as many years. The 
Hopwood bears burden of success 
by Beth H u(fman Sports Ediror 
"We've had a lot ofsuccess in the last two years," says Notre Dame tennis 
coach Tom Fallon. "I find a high positive correlation between a good captain and a successful team. We've had that relationship over the last couple of years and I'm confidentit will be there again this season." 
With this thought from his coach, the 1980-81 tennis captain, Herb Hopwood, has a lot of weight on his shoulders. 
"The team felt Herb had the best qualifications for captain," continues Fallon, the Irish mentor for 24 years."Herb has demonstrated such a good attitude over three years and he is a good leader. 
"In tennis we find it's a real big asset to have realleader. Herb hastrated to the have a real leader. Herb has demon­strated to the team and me that he has the qualifications we look for." 
Hopwood, an Arlington, Va., native, demonstrated those leadership critieria early this fall. 
"Herb goes out of his way to help get people acclimated," says Fallon."He looked up all the freshmen and got them out working. 
''I'm sure the kids look up to him and would go to him with their problems." 
Tentative Irish Lineup 
Singles  
Pos.  Name  Hometown  Year  
No. I No.2 No. 3  Mark McMahon Herb Hopwood Mark Hoyer  San Diego, Cal. Arlington, Va. Port Clinton, Ohio  So. ---5r. Sr.  
No.4 No. 5  Jim Falvey Tom Hartzell  Ocala, Fla. Rochester, N.Y.  Jr. Jr.  
No.6  Tim Noonan  St. Louis, Mo.  So.  
alt. 1  Tom Robison  St. Petersburg, Fla.  Jr.  
alt. 2  Paulldzik  South Wales, N.Y:­ So.  


Doubles 
No. 1 No.2 No.3 alt. 
Last Year's Pos. Record No.1 16-7 No. 3 15-8 No.4 17-5 No.7 1-1 No. 5 18-5 No.8 No.6 19-2 
HopwoodI Hoyer FalveyINoonan McMahon IHartzell Robison/ ldzik 
1970-Louisiana St. 1971-Notre Dame 1972-Cincinnati 
PAST TOURNAMENT CHAMPIONS 
1973-Cincinnati 1974-Notre Dame 1977-Miami (Ohio) 1975-Miami (Ohio) 1978-Miami (Ohio) 1976-Southern Illinois 1979-Miami (Ohio) 
Hopwood, who played number-three singles last spring for the Irish, takes his role as captain very seriously. 
"I'm not going out there to be somebody I'm not," says the 6-2, 170­pound senior. "I'll try to set examples; not necessarily by talking-I'll say 
things-but by demonstrating." 
Hopwood, who teamed with last year's captain, Carlton Harris, to form the number-one doubles duo, often sees his new job as that of a mediator. 
"In my role, I feel peple should be able to come to me with their problems,and I should take them to the coach and keep him alert." 
A 1977 gr;:tduate of Yorktown High School, Hopwood left for collegewith some doubts about his tennis future. 
"I came to Notre Dame because I thought I'd have a chance to play­ing," explains. the Stanford resident. "I was burned out and didn't know if I really wanted to play. 
"I was just lucky enough to make the team." 
Hopwood began his tennis career at nine, wh~n he first picked up his father's racket, a racket that was bigger than the one he uses today. 
A competitive tennis player since 14, 
Hopwood's athletic forte hastaken him Hopwood's athletic forte has taken him many places. This past summer he travelled the French circuit with a friend, living on money he'd saved from four years of teachingtennis. 
In Hopwood's tenure as an Irish player the squad has travelled to his native Washington, D.C., area, California and Mexico. For this year's annual spring trip Hopwood favors another trip west, possiblyto Hawaii, but stresses the work involved for the team to finance its own expedition. 
Hopwood, a finance maj()r,si!-ys the team will miss Carlton Harns, last 
season's number-twosingles man, but perhaps it is H;opwood himself who'll miss his former double partner most. 
"Carlton's the only one we lost to Port Clinton, Ohio, native was sixth as a freshman,first as a sophomore, fourth 
last spring and will play at number-three this fall. 
JuniorTim Falvey (Ocala, Fla.) finally has cracked the starting lineup after filling the seventh spot on the roster for two years. 
"Jim's been playing extremely well this fall," says Fallon. "He's certainly earned the spot. It's been tough keeping such a talented. player out of the lineup for the past couple Gf years, but that's just the waythings worked out after (intrasquad) challenge matches." 
Hartzell once again will be the number five man. The 6-3, 170-pound junior won the "B" Division singles title in the 1980 Eastern Collegiates in May, helping the Irish to the overall team title. 
Tim Noonan will round out the starting singles lineup, filling the number six spot. The St. Louis, Mo., resident, traveled with the team last spring, but did not play singles. He did, however, team with Falvey at third doubles,a duo that finished with a fine 18-5 record. They will join forces again this year at second doubles. 
Junior Tom Robison (St. Petersburg, Fla.),bumped from the starting lineup because of' Noonan'sfine fall play, will serve as first alternate this weekend Robiso~ posted two-year totals of38-10 at number-six singles. 
Sophomore Paul Idzick will serve as second alternate. 
The tournament format will feature two randomly selected divisions. ("Blue" and "Gold"). The four teams in each divisionwill play dual matches against each ofthe other three schools in their own division. Then the two first place finishers will playto determine the champion and runner-uJ>, the second 
place teams will meet for third and fourth place, and so on. 
Play be&ins tomorrow at 9 a.m. with each team s second match scheduledfor 2 p.m. Preliminary action concludes Saturday, 

Herb Hopwood 
graduation. We'll miss him not onlyas player, but as a person. He was really light and kept everyone loose." 
Harris and Hopwood combined last spring to post a 20-3 number-one doubles record and just rnissed an 
NCAA tournament bid. 
"Last year's te::~m came very close to qualifying for the NCAA's,"says Fallon. "Our best be• would have been Hopwood and , 'arris, but the three teams they lost !c) were the three selected to go." 
Hopwood, who will team with senior Mark Hoyer at number-one doubles ,remains optimistic about 1is squad's season possibilities. • 
"We're very close in ability, even closer than last year," explains Hopwood, who finished with a 15-8 singles record last spring. "As far as talent is concerned, we're better. 
"It's going to be hard for the coach to say who'll play where." 
With the team talent Hopwood brags of and his obvious leadership abilities,Fallon' s philosophies on cap­tains and winning seasons can lead tojust one result: success for the 1980-81 
. tennis team. 
, 
----~ 
l'he Observer SportsBoard Thursday, October 2, 1980-page 'tt 

WOMEN'S FLAG FOOTBALL Farley 5·0
Interhall ... Romo 
Walsh 3·1 
TENNIS 
The following are the lnterhall tennis pairings lor the quarterfinal and semifinal rounds. The results or these matches must be reported to the lnterhall Office by NOON on Wednesday, October 8. Failure to report the results will mean dlsquallflc· atlon of BOTH participants. 
Men's Singles-Open McClean (6279) vs. Wolfe (3830) Nangl (1474) vs. Baker (1796) Bauer (1501) vs. Duffy (1398) Beutler (1802) vs. Herman (1789) Dunlop (4557) vs. Wllkas (1154) Mountain (3368) vs. bye Lindeman (1972) vs. Rlgall (1654) Simoni (3087) vs. Burton (1736) 
Man's Singles-Novice Gardner (8725) vs. Kempf (8595) Cerise (6268) vs. Russell (1138) James (8410) vs. Moreno (3254) Yu (1863) vs bye
Mixed Doubles Klug-Brockelman (232·0921) vs. Bur· ton-Hammer (1736)Neu-Cella (1803) vs. Battle-Marks (7118) Women's Singles Kilbride (277-8757) vs. Klug (7935) 
MEN'S SOCCER 3-0 2-0 
Breen-Phllllps 2·1 Badin 2·1 Lyons 1·3 Off-campus 1·3 Lewis 0·1 VIlla Angela 0·3 
Men's 16" S41ftball Second Round Saadlngs 
No. 1-Fozzy Bears No.2-Romeos No. 3-Pro's Prose No. 4-0.C. 
Baseball 
PENNANT RACES National League East 
W  L  Pet.  GB  
Montreal Philadelphia  89 88  70 70  .560 .557  \12  
West  
Houston Los Angeles  W 91 89  L 67 69  Pet. .576 .563  GB 2  

Yesterday's Games 
[continued from page 12) 
All this would seem to suggest that the road has been easy for Romo, but this is not the case.THe girls' volleyball program at Notre Dame was in tts mfancy when she arrived and one might say it has grown with her during the past four years. 
This season marks the first 
_time ever that Notre dame has fielded a varsity volleyball team. This fact alone creates excitement among team mem· bers, but the belief that this year's squad can go places is t'!lpetus for even more enthu· s1asm. 
"You can just feel the team coming together out on the court," says Romo. "We're gaining a lot of confidence and I have a felling we're going to surprise a lot of people this year." 
The optimism found in Romo's remarks has not always wxisted. She recalls an incident 
which occurred during her cared. Now, all of a sudden we freshman year which ex.l?resses are getting some respect. th~ frustration of trymg to · That's nice." budd a decent reputation for 
Second year coach Sandythe volleyball team. 
Van Slager has nothing but 
. "We ~ere having a hard praise for Romo, on or off the ttme findmg a place to practice court. "Debbie is a very, very so we went over to the ock and had worker. she gives 100 waited our turn for. a court. percent every day, and her Then we went out and started leadership has been a real practicing and everyone got all heir,. bent out of shape about volley­' She has great rapport with ball in the Rock. Even now the other girls. In fact, she was they won't allow volleyballs in elected co-captain by her team­there.'' · mates and I believe she has 
However, now that varsity really made a difference in status has been achieved bringing the girls together as a Romo sees this attitude cha~g­team." ing. She is impressed by the 
The life of Debbie romo doesamount of people who support not, however, revolve com­the team and by the interest pletelr ~rou~d volleyball. Aheshown by other students. One IS '!laJonng m marketing andcannot help but detect a note of ~ocwlogy and would like to ghopride in her voice when she l~lto some type of public rela­speaks of this changing atti· t!ons work following gradua­tude. 
tiOn. she works part-ume in the"It really wipes me out. for Placement Bureau and loves to so long it seemed that no one just sit down and talk. 

2·1  Montreal 8, St. Louis 0  
1·0 1·0 H  Philadelphia 5, Chicago o Houston 5, Atlanta 2 Los Angeles 8, San Fran. 4  
H 1·1  American LBI!IUB  
H  East  
1-2 0-1 0·1 0·2 0·3  W L Pet. New York 100 58 .633 Baltimore 98 61 .616 Yesterday's Games  GB 2Y~  
New York 18, Cleveland 7  
Baltimore 12, Boston 8  

lassifieds 
Sports Brie _______, 
Lacrosse begins Sunday 
Lacrosse practice will_bq~in Sunday, October 5 at I p.m. at Stepan Center. _Practtce IS for anyone wishing to play in t~e an~ual alumni game. For further information contact Rtch 0 Leary at 4563. 
Several years ago, she had a knee operation for torn cani­lag<; an~ is currently experi­encmg ltgament trouble. Consepuently, ahe is forced to y.rear a brace when taking pan. m any type of physical activity. The extra effort Romo exerts m playing injured only further exhibits her importance to the team, both as a player and a leader. 
NOTICES 
CONTACT LENS WEAIIEIIS Save on brand nome hard or soft lens supplies. Send lor ITee Illustrated catalog. Contact Lens Supplies. eox 7453, Phoenlz, Az. 85011. 
OVERSEAS JOBS: Summer/year round Europe, S. Amer., Australia. Alia. Allllelds $500·$1200 monthly. Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free Info. Write: UC, Box 52-IN 4, Corona Del Mar. CA. 92625. 
THE N.J. CLUB BUS IS NOW TAKING I!ESEIIVATIONS FOil FALL BIIEAK. CALL KEVIN AT 7687 011 CHillS AT 4479 FOil MOllE INFO. DEADLINE IS FIIIDAY. 
OCTOBEII3. 
Eplacopol Students Interested In on or ott campus aervlcea contact Fr. Leatherbury at St. Michael's 232· 1241. or Bob Merrill. 4459. Please leave nome and phone. 
ATTENTION: THE CLEVELAND CLUB 
WILL HAVE A MEETING THURSDAY. 
OCT. 2. 2ND FLOOII LAFORTUNE AT 
6:30. 
NOW ON CAMPUSI Full line of SHAKLEE all-natural nutrition and personal core products. Vitamin. Mineral, Protein supplements. Call your campus distributor: Mike Hartmann 1912. 
Plato says: " ...let us, as we must. go Into the city and observe the whole ot 11. Let us toke the Plunge...." Don't forget deadline lor the Urban Plunge oppllcollonsls 3 p.m., Oct. 
3. 
I!IDE OFFEIIED-shoreexpenses. Going east on toll rd to Cleve. Oh. Leave 12 p.m. Fri. 10·3, Call Debbie F. x6436 betw 8-5. 
LOST/FOUND 
lOST: GOLD ROSEBUD CHAIIM • BIIOKEN OFF FI!OM IIING. LOST SATURDAY EITHEII AT GAME 011 IN FIIONT OF SENIOII BAll IIEWAIID. 
CALL 7969. 
LOST: SMC clan ring lost Saturday (9·20) ln•LeMons Hall. Engraving reads: TAG BA '81 Please contact Teresa at o&-1-o&788. 
LOST: VlVlTAII CAMEIIA IF YOU MUST KEEP THE CAMERA, PLEASE IIETUIIN THE FILM. 409 LEWIS, 7130. 
Lost: Cor keys on Tony's Shoellepolr '1 key chain about 5 keyslltound call Theresa Power 232-6298 
FOUND: Cross pen. Personalized (Michael). Call Mike 277-0690. 
Lost: In North Dining Hall, a IIEGGIE JACKSON autograph baseball glove with MAliK GANNON written on II. Big YANKEE lon and great senll­mentol value. DESPERATE FOR II!:TURN. Call 3441. PLEASE. 
lOST: Pair of brown frame glosses in red case. II found. please call Mike 011474. 
LOST: One while contact case containing one blue lens and one brown tens between Memorial library and Stepan Center. If found. please call 1820. 
LOST: In North Dining Hall, blue.ND Fencing Windbreaker. Jacket has ND Fencing Emblem on front and ND on right sleeve. Great personal value. $10 lleword. Call Mike at 3258. 
lOST: DARK BLUE SPIIING COAT; JUPITEIILABEL.Letl ol718 St. louis 51. on Friday Sept. 26. II Found, Please Contact fRANK at H62 (Phone). $5.00 IIEWAIID II llelurned,ond NO quesllona asked. 
LOST one opal marquis cut atone Huddle, O'Shog. or stadium parking area. Call 232-4326. IIEWAIIDI 
FOUND: Silver Cross pen with Initials In Nleuwlond Hall. Call 1382. '*" 
FOR RENT 
xAPT FOI!IIENT· QUIET, W/BEDIIOOM· LIVINGIIOOM AND KITCHEN. Call Kevin, 1139 ar Mr. Jorls, 234-3387 
Graduate student looking tor roommates lo shore 5 bedroom house lor remainder of this semester or next. Locoled In SAFE NEIGHBOII­HOOD on west side al town. Completely furnished. $70 a monlh. 288-3109. 
FOil IIENT: House. $225 mo. North Shore. Call 233-1329. 
WANTED 
INSTANT CASH PAID FOil CLASS IIINGS. Men's $35 • $85 and up. Free house calls. 255-2402. 
It's lime lo start thinking about October break... So, I'm looking lor riders going bOCk to central New Jersey, preferably In Somerset County. II you wont to drive bock with me. call John at 3106 (or maybe 1715 late at night). 
Need IIIDEIIS tram BOSTON TO NO 
Iter OCT. BREAK CALL TONY 1156 
WANTED: 1977 THE DOME yearbook. My brother lost his In lire. Call Paul lllehle ol6111 or 232-1545. 
WANTED: STEIIEO TO IIENT FOil FALL SEMESTER. LAURA 2778646. 
RIDE NEEDED TO PlnSBURGH FOil OCTOBER BIIEAK. CAN LEAVE FRIDAY AFTERNOON. CALL PATTY (SMC) 4108. 
HELP USIIIII DESPERATELY NEED IIIDE TO DAYTON, OH. 2 GllllS,Will HElP WITH DRIVING AND EXPENSES. CALL MARY 7401 
NEED IIIDE TO MILW. THIS WEEKEND CAN LEAVE THUIIS, 011 FRIDAV CALL KATIE 4451 
HELP! Need ride to CLEVELAND FOil OCTOBER 3 weekend. Will help with expenses. Call Mike -7997. 
HELP Ill Anyone from Conn.,N.Y.,II.I., Moss. Need ride bock lo achoal oller break. Call Phil 6873. 
FOR SALE 
FOil SALE: 1975 AMC HOIINET. 52,000 MILES. STANDARD. RADIO, nNTED GLASS, EXCELLENT CONDITION AND MILEAGE. STEEL-BELTED RADIALS AND SNOWS. 277-3997, JIM. 
FOR SALE: 40-tunction calculator. good condlllon. Including lrlg. log and anti-log luncllona. $20. 277· 3997, Jim. 
FOil SALE: one pair Spaulding Aberglou akls. very goad condition, Solomon bindings, travel case. $100. 277-3997, Jim. 
For sole 71 Mercury, runs well, air, power, some rusl, 75000 miles. $380. Call 2 77 
For Sale. Sonsul 0-90 cassette deck 1 yr. ald. Call 6837 
TICKETS 
Need 4 or 5 GA and 1 student Miami Hx. Call Mike 1207. 
Kid brother and HTH coming from Phoenix. Need 2 GA's Miami. Call John 1646. 
NEED 3 GA FOil MIAMI CALL TOM 2838 
Need lour Miami GA fix. Call Sian 1942 
Will pay lop dollar tor 2 llx Ia Miami game. Call collect, Hugh Ruddock, 1·602-262-5518.
. 
FOil SALE -Four YI·:S tickets­fourth row. podded seats. Call Bill al6770 
Will pay $$$ lor Army G.A.'s. Call John 1167. 
Need 2 Miami GA's call Don 1621 
MUST HAVE 4 AIIMY G.A. TICKETSII CALL JIM 2 77-8862 
Helpl Need many GA MIAMI llx. Cathy 7927 
Need 2 or more GA llx tor any home game. Eileen, 5409 SMC. 
Need 511x tor Miami game and 311x lor Air Force. Call 8485. 
Need any 4 llx lor Army game. Call 8680. 
NEEDED: N.D. • MICHIGAN STATE nCKETS. CALL 233-6948. 
MOM NEEDS A MIAMI TICKET. CALL OEDIPUS 13316. 
Need 4 GA Tlx lor MIAMI -CALL MAliK 3444 
NEEDED: 2 GA MIAMI TICKETS. CALL IIICK AT 1009. 
WANTED: 3·5 GA Tlx to Army tor FAMILY. No Tlx, No lllde Home. Phone 283-8202 alter 2:00 p.m. 
Lewis SWINGERS desperately need lhree Michigan State tickets. Please call 8497 or 3826 
NEED 3 GA TIX TO MIAMI. CALL LANCE. 277-3685 
SIJPPOIIT PIIO-LIFE...MINE... NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S CAlL BETSY 4·1-4981 
FOil SALE: 2 011 3 TICKETS TO THE TAMPA BAY-CHICAGO GAME AT SOLDIEII FIELD: OCTOBER 6 (MONDAY NIGHT) CALL JC AT 8540 
Need 2 Tics lor 2 Chlckll Must gel two sludentoiGA'slor Miami game. Call Mary ol 8085. 
DESPERATELY NEED 6 (SIX) G.A AIIMY nCKETS CALL 6494 
DESPERATELY NEED ONE MIAMI nCKET CALL 6494 
WANTED 1 011 2 GA MIAMI TIX 011 WILL TIIADE STU AIR FOIICE TICKET FOil , STU MIAMI CALL MAllY 4621 SMC. 
Need'2 or 4 TIX lor Miami or Army Please call 277-5067 
I NEED FOUl! STUDENT TICKETS TO THE MIAMI GAME. CALL DON 8705 . 
Desperately need llx lor Miami game. Cllll Jell 232-0902 
WANTED: GA and/or student Army tickets. Call Nancy-3891 
need 4 Navy llx. call Dick 1224 
NEEDED 1 Student or GA ticket to the Miami game. Will trade 1 Army ticket and/or CASH. Call Jell 1627 
PERSONALS 
HE WHO GETS SLAPPED a ploy by leonid Andreyev directed by Dr. Reginald F. Boln O'Loughlln Auditorium SMC OCTOBEII2, 3. 4 General Admission -$3; ND/SMC Students, Faculty and 51oft-$2.50 
NEW JERSEY CLUB BUS IS NOW TAKING IIESEIIVATIONS FOil FALL BREAK. CALL CHillS AT 4479 011 KEVIN AT 7687 FOil MOllE INFO, 
8 MOllE DAYS...TILL WE SWEAT IT OUT ON THE STREETS OF A IIUNAWAy AMERICAN DIIEAM. 
THE BOSS IS BACKII THE BOSS IS BACKII THE BOSS IS BACKII 
The Empty Keg Is sponsoring a keg lou (empty, of course) of Oklober­tesl tonlghlll 
But the kegs In the Bier Garten tenl won't be emptyl 
The halls ore olive with the SOUND OF MUSICI SMC Carroll Hall. Thursday and Friday at 7and 10 pm. 
FUTURE 011. JOHN E. BOY. 
I ALWAYS KNEW YOU COULD MAKE 
IT. IT JUST TOOK TIME TO MAKE THEM 
SEE THINGS THE SAME WAY. NOW 
THAT YOUI! WOI!IIIES AilE OVEI!, 
MADAME WONG'S, THE ATOMIC 
CAFE AND BRAVE DOG AWAlT YOU. 
SEE YA LATEII. 
COMO SIEMPIIE. 
THE COUCH SHELL 
MIKE & TOM. GOOD LUCK ON OATS. PLEASE BE OUII GUESTS AT LA HACIENDA FOil A NIGHT "CAP'', LOVE YOUII AMIGAS. MARYELLEN & CHEI!Yl 
JOANI,MAIIV.CECI,SIJE'S METALLO NASHAIIII.MUIIPHY & MURDOCK a EVERYONE ELSE WHO MADE CAPPING SO SPECIAL· THANK YOU. YOU'RE All THE GIIEATESTI 
LOVE YA, 
MAll 
MAIIIANNE,CAIIM,SUSIE,JOANI, 
METALLO.MUIIPHY,BETH,NINI,CHIIIS, 
SECTION 3-E. AND EVERYONE ELSE: THANK YOU All FOil MAKING SATURDAY SO SPECIALI 
LOVE, 
CHEIIYL 
Do your friends accuse you of being paranoid? Do you teet oa though the entire Notre Dame community desire& your Immediate expiration as a life form? Well, toke heart. lellow neurollcll Paranoia Is that stale where you think everyone Is out to gel you, but you're not completely sure. Well, let me assure you. everyone IS out to gel you. Now that you KNOW that we're all against your being. you can't be paranoid anymore. right? So relax. and don't trust anyone... 
Scoop 
QUADIIITEKI QUADIIITEKI 
QUADIIITEKI QUADIIITEKI 
403 Howard Is the home al the BEAST! HE Is on awesome MACHINE! A legend In his own llmel The German Gigolo Is loosel 
United Network ol Independent Cartoonists: Meeting Tonight at Super Secret meeting place about the you-know-what. Members only! 
Draw this. Cartoonlslslll 
r;ct Wl'll, K.C-city! 
Cavanaugh "Preps", 
P.B. and J. and cracker~ sure beoh studying tor computer lesll. don 1 vou agree? 
The Jolly Rancher Fon 
NOW HilliNG: Bartenders. busboys. 
loodrunners. 15-20 hours per week 
Apply In pe"on, 3·5 p.m.• Monday 
Friday. Captain Alexander's Moon 
raker. 300 E. Colfax. 
Get a job, cartoonlstal 
Jeanne Loboe ­
Today you con now legally 
become a hurtln' unll as often as 
you wonl. CongroluloHonsl 
Here's to sunrises. 
l!yon 
NAZZISM: ANDY HICKS AND GEORGE WILMES TONIGHT AT NINE. 
THE SOUND OF MUSIC 7,10 pm Thurs & Frl Carroll Hall SMC $1.00 
SRorts The Ali 'mystique' 
McAFEE. N.J. -Gerry Cooney, a veritable giant of a man with his 6-5, 240-pound frame, moved quietly through the crowd ofapproximately 1,000 fight tans at the indoor tennis center of the .. Playboy Resort and Country Club" attracting little ifno attention from the enclave offight fans. 
It seemed the latest in an endless line of 'Great White Hopes,' despite his well-publicized suc­cesses in the ring, was no more of a celebrity than any other schmoe ·an the streets. 
Then came Thomas Hearns. The 'Motor City Cobra·, complete with his unique DEE-trait hairstyle, maneuvered to his seat at ringside with little more than a halfdozen raised eyebrows cast throughout an otherwise sedate crowd, waiting .mxiously for the upcoming W.B.C. light heavy­weight championship bout between challenger Gerry Martin and titleholder Eddie Mustafa Muhammad. 
Perhaps former welterweight champion Pipino Cuevas might testify otherwise, but even Mr. Hearns, a man with enough power in his hands to light up his home state of Michigan for an entire year, was just another face in the crowd on this steamy July afternoon. 
The next man to make his way anonymously towards ringside was Matthew Saad Muhammad, who just one week earlier in the very same arena had defended his W.B.A. light heavyweight title in ,1 classic struggle against Yaqui Lopez. 
Saad Muhammad encountered no more than a nod or two from the obviously unimpressed fight crowd gathered in the valley known as Great Gorge in northern]ersey. 
Boxing exhibitions have traditionally been places for endless, more often than not, pointless introductions of one-time warriors and local heroes lauded as future contenders, but this crowd couldn't have been more surprised by the next guest at Hugh Hefner's Eas~ern playhouse. 
From the tunnel leading to the suites and dressing rooms reserved for the day's combatants emerged one Muhammad Ali. 
There were no theatrics, no verbal taunts, and no lashes of whimsical poetry from the mouth of 'The Champ' on this occasion. He moved slowly, pausing occasionally to smile and shake hands with well-wishers and ·admirers straddling the path to his ringside perch. His demeanor was reserved and almost un-Ali like as he finally reached the pair of seats held for him and his astonishingly beautiful wife Veronica. (The bunnies took a back seat on this afternoon.) 
The reaction from the crowd would best be described as a deafening murmur, as Ali appeared at the head of his never-far-behind troupe of 
Gary 
Grassey 
family, friends, insiders, apd assorted Muslim dignitaries. 
Later that same afternoon in the press con­ference following Mustafa Muhammad's title defense, the questioning, as usual, somehow got around to the magnetic presence of'The Champ'. 
Mustafa Muhammad would speak of"the family 
up on the hill", referring to Ali's training ground 
and home at Deer Lake, PA, and he would refer to 
his "brother in Islam", 'The Champ' himself. 
But those moments in the presence of the man who really is bigger than life, seemed to transcend the short-sighted focus of notions like family and religious brotherhood when one considers the events that have brought Ali to his final ap­pointment with boxing history tonight at Caesar's Palace in Las Vegas. 
Ten short weeks ago, Muhammad Ali was still a very fat man. He was a fighter with seemingly no future. The moustache he sported back in July still covered traces ofthe ten-stitch wound that had cut short his early training for the Larry Holmes bout. 
The man who had not thrown a punch for a price in two years seemed <k.stined for an embarrassing, if not tragic end to what may have been the greatest boxing career ever. It's been one fine sell­job if you can't acknowledge his athletic prowess. 
But now the odds all see to have turned the other way. The bookmakers who once called this a 3-1 shot for Holmes are now taking their money at 3-2. Larry Holmes admits that he can't win the war, even if he takes this battle. If Ali wins, Holmes certainly couldn't have been the fighter he claimed to be. If Holmes wins, he has merely beaten the remains of a once-great champion, now old man. 
Who else but Muhammad Ali could command more money, more ink, weave more psychological games and make such a damn fuss over one more evening of dancing, rope-a-dope., and a punishing left jab? 
George Plimpton dubbed it "the force field", as he recalled his encounter with 'The Champ' in an anecdote-filled discussion at the library on Tuesday night. Call it the Ali 'mystique'. Call it what you will, but it's out there and it's very real. 
Larry Holmes will live in the shadow ofitthe rest of his life. Anybody who comes in contact with it will never forget the feeling. 
Thursday, October 2, 1980-page 12 
.... 
Tomorrow, The Observer sports staffpublishes its third football supplement of the year, previewing Saturday's matching with MichtRan State. [photo by ]ohm MacorJ 
Romo excels as ND spikers gain respect 
b'V Ar1JZand Korndeld Sports Writer 
Going to college in a small, midwestern town is a major change for a native Califor­nian, and it can sometimes prove difficult, as Debbie Romo will attest. "The midwest is much slower than California, maybe even a little too slow. It took awhile but I've finally grown accumstomed to it.'' 
One area in which Romo has not experienced any difficulties is in sports. She played four years of volleyball and basket­ball while in high school and has been playing volleyball at Notre Dame since she arrived four years ago. She was also a member of the Notre Dame swim team for a year. 
Ramo's athletic prowess is not all that suprising when on learns about the rest of her family. All five of her brothers and sisters are heavily involved in sports, and one of her brothers plays college baseball. 
[continued on page llJ 

Eight months ago, he was lying in a hospital bed, living proof that hitting a baseball is single most difficult thing to do in all of sport. 
The testimony to the boast was not a 450-foot home run, nor a searing line drive nearly decapitated a charging third baseman. Rather, it was a face, swollen and bruised beyond recognition. 
The face belonged to Jim Montagano. 
The accidental remodeling was courtesy of one of his teammates, who hit Montagano in the face with a batting practice pitch. The cork and liather ball, which weighs little more than five ounces, shattered Montagano's cheekbone. 
It also shattered his 1980 season. Instead of spending his third spring at Notre Dame lining balls into the outfield of Jake Kline Field and blocking pitches thrown into the dirt, he sat. 
And when he got tired of sitting in one place, he sat in another. Finally, he would get up walk. From one end of the dugout to the other. And then back. 
Meanwhile, a lady in the stands shared his frustration. While Jim Montagano paced the cement dugout, his mother sat on the cold, steel bleachers and cheered for the Irish. 
It mattered not that her·· son would not be abl"-' to play in a single game after starting for his first two seasons at Notre Dame. Whether he p1ayed or not, Jim Montagano was a member of the team. So Mrs. Montagano was in the stands. 
It mattered not that the temperature was low and the wind was cruel. She came and cheered for the boys she had become so close to in three years. 
And so does Mom 
Catcher Montagano returns 
Craig 
Chval 

Even so, there was a limit. Mrs. Montagano had taken Jim's friends on the team under her wing, inviting them to her Elkhart home for several home-cooked Italian meals. Usually, the several meals would be in the same afternoon. 
And now, the players would stop by Mrs. Montagano as she sat bundled in the stands. THey would exchange pleasantries, and then they would go their way. And she would turn back to the game, and offer some more encouragement to the players on the field. 
"I have to be honest," says Mrs. Montaga­no. "I could only stay for one game. I would watch Jim pacing behind the dugout or sitting on the steps leading up to the pressbox, and it broke my heart. I couldn't take a double­header." 
It wasn't any easier for Jim. Besides being resigned to cheering his teammates to the best season in Notre Dame history, he had to wonder about his future. 
While Bjorn Borg does marvelous things to a tennis ball, and Lynn Swann can ~erform ballet and catch a football at the same ttme they can perform their magic secure in the knowledge that they will leave the field or the court as a living, breathing human being. ; 
tcontinued on page 9] 
