....... 
I I 
...Sports Special-pgs. 7,8 

VOL. XV, NO. 66 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1980 
Students cite false arrest, brutality 
By Kelli Flint Sem'or Staff Reporter 
A group of Notre Dame stu­dents plans to press charges of litlse arrest, false incarceration, and negligence against the South Bend Police Department follow­ing an incident that took plact' after the Notrt' Damt'-Air Force football gamt'. 
The i ncidt'nt involves a dispute between seven students and a group of middle-aged men who allegedly stole the wallet of one of the students. The students requested that their names be withheld from this article. 
The seven students eventually became involved in fights with the men outside a motor home parked near Green Fidd, al­though the students claim they nevt'r rt'taliated in the fighting. When polict' intervened, four of the students, but none of the men, were arrested. 
Polict' Sergeant Williams, who made the arrest, does not inter­pret the incident the same way as the students. "The students in­stigatt'd the fight as far as I know," he said. "I know that we told them to disperse and they wouldn't. 
"They were arrested for disor­dt'rly conduct. They were fight­ing the oldt'r men back. We were not nt:gligent in any way, shape, or form. They were warned to leavt' the area. We arrested the studt:nts and incarct'rated them, but we did not press charges against tht'm." 
Originally, there were three students walking on the road between Edison and Juniper, nt'ar a group of motor homes, according to the student whose wallt't was taken. "We were approached from a motor home by two men, between45-50 years of age," he said. 
"The men began playfully wrestling with us. They then shook hands with us, and we parted. About fifteen minutes later, we were returning by the same path. When we reached the motor home, the same men approached us again. 
"This time they threw us over the wire alongside the road, down an embankment. We again parted, but this time not as cordially as the first time. I noticed afterwards that my pants pocket had been ripped, and my wallet was gone." 
"We did not think that it would be safe to return for the wallet alone. We ran into some friends near Green Field, and decided to return for the wallet," the student said. 
"When we arrived at the motor home, there were two men standing in front of the home. One of them had my wal­let. One of my friends asked for the wallet. The man waved it in front of his face, and my friend took it When he took the wallet. 
{continued on page 4} This means oftransportation irfast becoming obsolete as the cold winter .mows invade the camp11s. (Photo by Rachel Blo11nt) 

Military scare 
IABC decide, 2-1 in favor of Corby's 
By]oh11 M. Higgins Staff Reporter 
Corby's Tavern's liquor license was renewed by the Indiana Alcoholic Beverage Commission yesterday. The three-member commission's vote of 2-1 to allow Corby's to continue operations marked the end of a seven-month battle that pittt:d Corby's owners against South Bend city officials and northeast neighborhood residents. 
The struggle began last April when the local board of the ABC decided to recommend to the state commission that Corby's licen~e not be renewc:d.. ,Board members said that they felt Corby's manage­ment was not making an effort to "clean up their act" following a number of arrests of minors inside the bar. 
Corby's owner, CTI, Inc., appealed the decision to the state commission, claiming that the board's decision was "arbitrary and capricious" and "not based in fact." A series of hearings before the commission in Indianapolis concluded in September. 
"I sat through three days ofhearings and I had to make a deCision," ABC Commissioner Morris Tobin, who voted in favor of renewal of the license, said, "My decision was that they were probably entitled to one more year to straighten up their act. 
"In my mind, the city just didn't prove they were that bad." 
fcvntt!med on page 3/ 


Soviets alert troops on Polish border 
stale of alert or that there had leaders must "sober up" and 
BERLIN (AP) -A flurry of been any mobilization of Soviet cooperate with the party. There fresh reports of Soviet military forces. were reports that the party lead­moves on Poland's eastern and The reports renewed concern ership was divided on how to western borders erupted yester­that the Soviet Union might be cope with militant union leaders day as Poland's Communist considering military action in and the Polish economic crisis. Party Central Committee met in Poland to quell unrest and halt In Washington, U.S. defense Warsaw to deal with the labor moves that the Kremlin sees as officials said they were notified turmoil that has alarmed the undermining Communist Party that the Soviet Union planned to country's Warsaw Pact allies. rule. close an area in East Germany 
The Central Committee meet­along the Polish border and Moscow "categorically" de­ing in Warsaw opened with a dismissed the action as routine. nied reports that Red Army warning from Communist Party Maj. Gen. Jerry Curry, a Penta­troops on Poland's eastern bor­leader Stanislaw l(ania that gon spokesman, side-steppedder had been put on the highest Poland's independent labor comments on the Soviet/Polish 
10ut of control' 

Immigration policies need reform 
By Amy Sahrin Associated Press lflrti'er 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The kindest critics of U.S. immigra­tion policy say it is unfair, the toughest that it is literally mur­derous. Butwith an estimated 1.2 million legal and illegal new­comers expected to cross Ameri­can borders this year, th,: most commonly heard concern is that immigration is "out ofcontrol." 

"When Fidel Castro can do what he did to the United States, immigration is definitely out of I control," said Lawrence Fuchs, executive director of Congress' Select Commission on Immigra­tion and Refugee Policy. 
Federal immigration laws are unwieldy and unfair, Fuchs said, and are in themselves a major reason why the United States has been unable to slow the flow of newcomers. 
Some 776,000 immigrants and refugees will enter the United States legally this year, their ranks unexpectedly swollen by boatloads of Cubans and Haitians granted special refugee status. 
In addition, thousands of il­legal aliens are crossing U.S. borders. Estimates place their numbers anywhere between 300,000 and 500,000, bringing the annual immigration total to its highest level since the first decade of this century. 
With the current record low 
U.S. birth rate, immigration will account for almost half the na­tion's population growth this year, said Michael Teitelbaum, a population expert at the Ford Foundation. 

On paper, the laws provide a ceiling of 20,000 immigrants a year from each country. In re­ality, that means spouses of American citizens in a country like Mexico, where there is a long list of people hoping to immi­grate, have to wait as long as nine years to be legally reunited with their relatives, while a pastry chef from Norway with no relatives 
here can be admitted in a matter of months. The select comm1ss1on­made up of four cabinet secre­
taries, four members of the House and Senate and four presidential appointees-was established in 1978 to propose new immigration laws. With final recommendations to 
Congress and the president due on March 1, the commission staff is meeting beginning today, joined by the commisioners on the weekend, to review two years of findings. 
In previous sessions the com­mission heard from a number of critics, including activist immi­gration attorney Rick Swartz who says that U.S. government policy led to the death of scores of Haitian refugees who were sent back to Haiti because they were not qualified to enter under 
U.S. refugee laws. 
"During the Carter adminis­tration, several thousand Haitians have been returned to Haiti, totally outside the law, 
[continued on page 3} 

situation. "There's nothing new 
there," he said. 
Western sources in Berlin re­

ported that the Soviet Union had 
declared East German areas a­

long the Polish border off limits 
to staff from the American, 
British and French military 
missions in Potsdam, East 
Germany. 

The British Broadcasting Corp. reported from West Berlin that Soviet troops on Poland's eastern border have had their alert status raised by four points to level six, the highest in the Soviet army. . ·Asked about the reports, the Soviet Foreign Ministry in Moscow said: "We categorically deny all these rumors. Troops in the trans-Carpathian area as well as in other areas are living a normal life. There is no urgent or non-urgent mobilization or draft of reservists. All inventions ·about this are on the conscience 
of those who circulate them." 
The Carpathian region stretches along southern Poland to Romania and contains major Soviet units with headquarters in Lvov. Units from that area parti­cipated in the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968. 
According to Western csti­ates, the Soviet Union has about 30,000 Red Army troops in Poland, some 80,000 in Czech­oslovakia and about 400,000 in East Germany. 
The closure of East German areas bordering Poland prohibi­ted visits by Western military observers who have access under occupation agreements drafted at the end of World War II. The Western allies have military missions at Potsdam, East Germany, and the Soviets have observers in the former Ameri­can, British and French zones of what are now WestGermany and West Berlin. 

...--~-------------~------­

News Brie/§ 
by The OhJerver and The AJJociated Prm 
An arctic storm yesterday attacked the upper Midwest with blinding snows and subzero cold that glazed highways and sent hundreds of cars and trucks skidding, resulting in at least four deaths. Snow flung by winds of35 mph accumulated up to 8 inches deep as the storm swept across parts of Nebraska, Iowa, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Illinois and Michigan. The mercury dropped to 18 degrees below zero at International Falls, Minn., the coldest spot in the contiguous states. It was 15 below at Valentine, Neb. Slick highways and driving snow were blamed for two traffic deaths in Nebraska, one in Iowa and one in Wisconsin. The snow was whipped around by northerly winds up to 35 mph. Gale warnings were posted on Lake Michigan. The fast-moving storm dumped up to 8 inches ofsnow on parts ofMichigan in its sweep toward the east. -AP 
Sen. Howard H. Baker Jr. of 
Tennessee was elected yesterday to lead the new Republican majority in next year's Senate. He immediately pledged to help shepherd President-elect Ronald Reagan's programs through Congress. "I intend to try to help Ronald Reagan perform on the commitments he made during his campaign," the 55-year­old Baker said shortly after his colleagues unanimously voted him as Senate Republican leader for the next two ~lirs. Baket expressed hope the Senate would pass fewer laws than has been its custom in recent yeats. "We pass too many laws," said Baker, who has a reputation as a moderate in what is expected to be the most conservative Senate in recent years. The senator, who ran unsuccessfully for the GOP presidential nomination this year, has served as Senate minority leader for the past four years, when Democrats controlled the Senate. His party's 53-47 majority in the new Senate, which convenes in January, will make Baker the senator with the final say on which bills are moved to the floor for debate, a position ofgreat influence over Congress' actions. Behind closed doors, GOP senators elected Sen. Ted Stevens ofAlaska without opposition to the No.2 job of Senate majority whip. Sen. Strom Thurmond of South Carolina was selected to become president pro tempore, or presiding officer of the Senate in the absence of the vice president. The post goes to the member of the majority party with the greatest seniority, and Thurmond's election must be ratified by the full Senate in January.-AP 
Alexander M. Haig Tr. is a likely choice for secretary ofstate and New Y~rk banr!er Walter B. Wriston is the top pick for treasury secretary, knowledgeable sources said yesterday after President-elect Ronald Reagan made Cabinet offers to at least eight persons. However, the sources stressed the list of top officials for the Reagan team was still in doubt because competition continued for some spots and some of the top choices might spurn Reagan's offers. It was also not clear which of the candidates for the 15 Cabinet-level jobs had been contacted by Reagan. Those chosen will head the 13 Cabinet agencies and the Central Intelligence Agency and Office ofManagement and Budget. The sources added that the president-elect was having considerable trouble finding a woman for the Cabinet after Anne Armstrong, former am­bassador to Great Britain and close Reagan adviser, withdrew her name from consideration last w~ek. Tht:Sources said Casp~r • ·· Weinberger, budget director under Nixon, had emerged as the leading contender for defense secretary. One source, however, -;,1id Weinberger's chance to become defense secretary re­mained "a real question" because of interest in the post L·xpressed by William Casey, Reagan's campaign manager, rransition chairman and longtime friend. Casey was likely to become director of the Central Intelligence Agency if he does not get the defense post, sources said. 

A flurry of fresh reports of Soviet 
, ,jJitary moves on Poland's eastern and western borders rupted yesterday as Poland's Communist Par~ Central , lrnmittee met in Warsaw to deal with labor turmml that has t.Hmed the country's Warsaw Pact allies. 
\1oscow"categorically" denied reports that Red Army troops 
1. Poland's eastern border had been put on the highest state of 
. ,-,·tor that there had been an~ mobilization ofSoviet forces. The reports renewed concern that the Soviet Union might be 
•nsidering military action in Poland to quell unrest ~nd halt 
'<>ves that the Kremlin sees as undermining Commumst Party cde. 

Variable cloudiness with the high near 
30. Clear and not so cold at night. Low 25 to 30. Sunny and much warmer tomorrow. High in the mid 40s. -AP 
Wednesday, December 3, 1980-page 2 
Inside Wednesday 


Senate woes 
StirCrazy. Suchanappropriatetitleforachainof •••••••••••• 
events that reflects nothing but a bunch of so­
called "reasonable and educated" people running 
around with their heads caught between their tails. 
Whatever could I mean, you ask...Certainly this 

could not have anything to do with the University. 
Oh, I must be talking about some ofthose off-the­
wall campus parties that usually lead to downright 
decadence, right? 
Oh, come now, you are much cleverer than 

that... I am referring to something that is based on 
absurdity, stupidity and pettiness. 
Hmm. Can it be the Student Senate election? 

The one which caused more furor than finding a 
cockroach in the stringbeans last year. 
Most perceptive of yo'.l. Yes, once again, Notre 

Dame student government falls flat on its back. 
And this time, like the Mother Goose nursery 
rhyme, it will take more than the King's men to 
put this "bad egg" together again. 
Suppose we start from the beginning. Last 

spring, the idea ofa student senate to replace the 
ineffective Campus Life Council, the lifeline be­
tween the student body and the Administration, 
brought ear-to-ear grins to the faces of various 
campus leaders. For weeks on end, whispers of 
"the Senate is coming, the Senate is coming", 
floated around campus until one day it was 
thought that Capitol Hill was bucking D.C. and 
taking up residence in LaFortune. 
We all came back to school after "serving time" 

for 'three months, and frankly forgot about the 
Student Senate and the CLC. But, to our ad­
vantage, Student Body President Paul Riehle and 
his colleagues did not forget about their brain­
storm baby. They worked on a proposal, outlining 
the Student Senate, which would be presented to 
the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of 
Trustees. Simply put, the Student Senate was to 
replace the CLC with one added feature: Fr. Van 
Wolvlear and Dean Roemer would not have any 
direct power in the Senate. 
Needless to say, however, the Trustees bom­

barded the idea of a Senate and student govern­
ment was set back once again. And the absurdity 
continued. 
Riehle, nonetheless, forged ahead with his plans 

for the Senate and the elections for the five district 
seats that were to be filled by "conscientious and 
enthusiastic" students. However, some of those 
who decided to run viewed the Senate as a joke and 
their platforms reflected such thinking. 
Take, for example, o·ne student who ran on a platform calling "for a change." Pledges to get the hostages out within ten days, to integrate dorms by busing and to "nuke" the Trustees were just plain idiotic. As this poor misguided fool emphasized during his campaign, if he couldn't convince the student body to act on these issues, then he would "confuse them into it." 
Then there was the student who incorporated "a ~ee~(for cable TV" on campus. And the candidate who called Notre Dame "a place that breaks 
Pam Degnan 
Newr Editor 


collective hearts and dampens aggregate spirit," 
and also said that serving on the Student Senate 
would be like "giving back a bit of what we have 
received." The absurdity continued. 
Election day finally dawned. And we certainly got more of a show than we bargained for. Although all was quiet in the other four districts, District 2 proved to be quite an exception. Hans Hoedermann was disqualified for violating cam­paign rules and Frank Tighe was declared the winner. Keenan Hall literally rose up in arms against Tighe, threatening him with obscene phone calls. And to make matters worse, Fr. Richard Conyers, the rector of Keenan Hall, posted a direct message to his residents-that Keenan Hall would not be fairly represented if Frank Tighe served in the Senate. The absurdity continued. 
Tighe threatened to resign from his post even before he was officially inducted into office, stubbornly saying that his resignation from the Senate would "be in the best interest for everyone concerned." Hoedermann complained that he had been given a "bad shake." And student govern­ment leaders were simply stumped by what was happening around them. 
The Student Senate has had many "falls" in its short existence. Perhaps it's not all that it is cracked up to be. 


Design Eddor _.. _.. Timothy Terrence Sullivan 
Design Assistants ... Kevin K. Korowicki 
Ms. Patricia Anne Fox 

Ms. Julie Ann Joyce Layout Staff.. __ Ms. Diane E. Mazurek Day Techmdan _.... _Bruce W.Oakley Night Technician ..... .-.. _Michael Jans News Edtfor __ .. Ms. Margaret M. Brassil Sports Copy Editor . .... __ Ms. Elizabeth 
Huffman Tvpt:rt . ........ Ms. Marilyn Broderick Systems Technician ....... Robert Scott 
-Huffstodt ND Day Editor ... Ms. Molly K. Noland Ad Design ... __ ....... .Joseph Mulfler Photographer ... Ms Rachel Anne Blount 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is publishedby the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year($10 per semester) by writing Till Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre·oame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved. 

ADVENT PENANCE SERVICE 
(Followed by Opportunity for Private Confession) 
Sacred Heart Church -­Wednesday, Dec. 3 -­
-



10 P.M. 
SPONSORED BY THE OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
•



a -­
campus

miniStry 

The Observer Wednesday, December 3, 1980-page 3 
....Focus 


Saint Mary's LeMans tower is now being lightedat night. (photo by]ane Ahern) 
SMC lights.LeMans as bright symbol 
Hy Linda Week.r 
!.~Mans Tower was recently electrically renovated and will now he illuminated every evening, according to a decision made by President John M. Duggan. 
Duggan said he believes that !.~Mans Tower is a symbol of Saint Mary's in the same way that the Dome is a symbol of Notre Dame. The lighted tower can he seen from downtown South 
SU needs free teachers 
Anyone interested in teaching a Free University course next semester is requested to send a description of his course to the Student Union offices by Friday. The description should include name, telephone number and times that he may be reached; the title and a two to four sentence description ofthe course; the day and time that the course will be taught; any fees and/or· books which will be required or recommended for students. 
Past courses have dealt with photography, urban ecology, comic hooks and bridge, to name a few. Courses will begin Feb. 2 and will meet for a maximum of twelve weeks, once or twice a week, depending upon the in­structor's preference. 
Courses on any subject may be taught, but past trends have indicated the need for an auto mechanics teacher and many mixology teachers. 
Bend and from the highway, and "it lets them know we are here," Duggan said. 
The tower was lit in previous years, but the electrical fixtures had been worn out for some time. A light illuminates the inside of the bell tower, and two spotlights illuminate the cross. Both these light sources are con­trolled by a timer which turns the lights Qn from approximately 6 p.m. to 12p.m. atacostof$.0162 per hour. 
Icontinuedfrom page 1J 
without access to attorneys. Scores and scores of those per­sons, if not hundreds, are dead today," he said, backing his claim with court testimony about star­vation and imprisonment in Haiti. 
On the other side ofthe debate 
Carter 

warns Soviets 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The Carter administration warned the Soviet Union yesterday that an attempt to invade Poland or intervene in Polish internal af­fairs would trigger "most serious and adverse" consequences for East-West and Soviet-American relations. 
Jody Powell, President Carter's chief spokesman, issued the warning, telling reporters it would be a "serious mistake" for any nation to underestimate the will and determination of the United States merely because the U.S. government is in transi­tion between presidents. 
"An intervention or invasion of Poland would be most serious and adverse for East-West rela­tions in general and particularly relations between the United States and the Soviet Union," Powell said. 
"I think it would be a serious mistake for any government under any circumstances to as­sume that in a period of transi­tion between one administration and the next that the American government lacks either the will or the ability to respond," Powell told reporters. 
Powell declined to speculate on what steps the United States might take if the Soviet Union moved against Poland. 
He said Carter has discussed the situation by telephone with several key European leaders over the past few days. 
"It's a situation that's being watched closely and with con­cern," he said. 
Powell declined to say whether any warhings have been sent td Moscow directly via diplomatic channels. 
... Corby's 
Iwntinuedfrom page 1j 
"We did not feel that they were any more in violation (of liquor laws) than the other two or three bars in the immediate area," Commission member Austin Barker said. "It's my job to weigh the evidence and rule accordingly. We listened to both sides and that was it." 
ChairmanJames Sims, the lone dissentor, disagreed. "I felt the local board was justified in their decision," he said. "I voted against renewal of the license mainly because I wanted to uphold the local board's action. 
"We have a strong policy to support the local community whenever it is reasonably possible," Sims continued. "I was trying to do that." 
Sims said that CTI AttorneysJoseph Quill and Thomas Anton were given a "strong reprimand from me that it is absolutely essential that they guard very closely their problems with crowds and serving of minors" and that the problems with Corby's brought out during the hearings "could be used (as a basis for) a very severe penalty in the future." 
Quill refused to comment on the 111atter. Anton could not be reached. 
City Attorney Richard Hill said that he was unsure what action the city would take in the wake ofthe decision against them. "I believe we have the option ofappealing in the courts," he said. "But we'll have to wait until we receive the formal ruling from the Commission before we decide what to do next." He said he should receive a copy of that ruling "within the next two weeks." 
is the Federatio~ of Americans for Immigration Reform, whose executive director, Roger Connor, argues for severe re­ductions in the number ofimmi­grants. 
"In every other industrialized nation on Earth, it is illegal to hire a foreigner who does not have the legal right to work in th~t country," said Connor. 
U.S. law does prohibit undoc­umented aliens from taking jobs in this country but does not penalize employers who hire them. 
The commission seems likely to recommend employer sanc­tions. The difficulty with such sanctions is that they place the burden of identifying undocu­mented workers on the employ­er. And Hispanic groups object to sanctions, claiming that em­ployers worried about comply­ing with the law will discriminate against all persons of Hispanic descen,.kincluA\Qg U.S. ~itiz.ens. 
The commission is also con­sidering several identification systems, including identification cards for every legal worker, citizen and non-citizen alike, perhaps in the form of a social security card that would be diffi­cult to forge. 
Civil libertarians object to this, however, saying it would make it easier for the government to in­vade a worker's privacy. 

Fuchs said the commission's recommendations will probably also include the following: 
-New rules on which and how 
many newcomers are granted en­
try. 

-A revamped foreign aid pro­gram aimed at eliminating the factors which cause people to immigrate in the first place, mainly poverty and repression. 
-Tighter controls on illegal immigration. These efforts are likely to be linked to an amnesty program for undocumented ali­ens already here. A government Accounting Office report esti mates their numbers to bt around 5 million. 
Experts differ on the econom­ic impact of illegal aliens, but· Fuchs said there is little disagree­ment among commissioners that amnesty is a wise, necessary am' humane step. 
"We have people in the United States without documents, most ofwhom are productive workinJ.: members of society," he said. "They are an underclass. They are here already. They live in fear of apprehension. 
"In some cases, they are so anxious they don't seek proper medical attention. They are afraid to send their children to school. ... Is this in the self­interest of the United States?" 

WINDING DOWN THE WEEK... ATTHENAZZ 
Tonight-9:00 High Plains Drifters 
10:30 ND Jazz Band 
Thursday-9:00 Open Stage 

10:00 ND Jazz Band 
Friday-9:00 RMS (Up In Ballroom) 

11:00 Open Stage 
Saturday-9:00 Fourth Annual Christmas Nazz 
************** 

The Observer Wednesday, December 3, 1980 -page 4 
... Brutality 
[continuedfrom page 1J 
-' 
the man grabbed his jacket and 
began pushing him. A student 
stepped in to break it up. At this 
point eight or nine men jumped 
out of the motor home and be­
gan punching us. 
"We were getting pummelled. We weren't really trying to fight back. We were just trying tb keep them from hitting us." 
South Bend police were gath­ered at the corner of Edison and Juniper Road, according to another student who was invol­ved in the incident. "When they saw what was going on, they came over," he said. "While the fighting was going on, a friend of mine who was not involved inthe 
ii~~iiiiiiiinii:iiiiiiii\liiii~=:z~~!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!~;!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~~~~~;;~~;~W;. 
fighting went over to one of the policemen and asked him to intervene. The policeman knocked him down and hand­cuffed him. 
"He was the first to get arrested. His glasses were knocked offwhen the policeman hit him. He asked the officer to pick up his glasses and appre­hend the man who hit me (his friend), but he only shoved him into the car. The glasses were never retrieved," the student noted. 
"When the policemen began arresting the students, the old men bolted. The police did nothing to apprehend these men. 
"After I saw two of the stu­dents arrested, I went to the police officers and asked them to apprehend the old men. They told me that this was not their jurisdiction, and that I should take my complaints to the county," he added, even though the officers hadjust arrested two of the students. 
"I then turned to talk to another police officer. This angered the first officer, and he grabbed me. When he did this, I asked him to tell me his name. He responded to this by hand­cuffing me and putting me in the car. 
"A fourth student was arguing with the policemen about the incident When he saw that the officers would not assist him, he walked away from the scene. After he had gone about fifty yards, one of the officers said, 'Let's get him'. Then three offi­cers went a(ter him and tackled him on the road by the park· lot," the student said mg 
"They said that they were arresting us for refusing to leave the scene. This guy was leaving the scene and they tackled him from behind. 
"When we got to the police station, the officers did not read us our rights. They would not allowustomakeatelephonecall, or tell us what the chargesagainst us were. They kept telling us 'this 
u 

HOW·~WOULD YOU LIKE AFREE POSTER OF THESE GUYS. HANGING AROUND YOUR ROOM? 
Who would ever guess that an unruly bunch of famous Lite Beer drinkers would someday pose for a classic photograph? This precious moment has been captured in a big (18" by 24") beautiful color Lite Beer Alumni Poster that's yours for free. 
Just cut out the coupon, being sure to include your 
name and address, and send it to: Lite Beer Alumni Poster, Box 11973, Milwaukee, WI 53211. 
LITE BEER FROM MILLER. EVERYTHING YOU ALWAYS WANTED IN ABEER.AND LESS. 
~ 980 Beer Brewed by M1ller Brew1ng Co Milwaukee W1s 
______I 
State Zip____l 
Offer exp1res June 30, 1981 Vo d where proh b ted by low 

,_--------------'iiiiiiiiiii=l 
is my jail and I call the shots.' 
"We spent six hours in jail without them telling us what the charges were. During this time they took mugsh~ts ofus, confi­

. s~atedo';lrP?,ssesstons, and made 
~ fmgerpnnts, note~. one of the accused students. They then locked ~s. in sepa;,ate cells. It was really ndtculous. . 
The stu?ent pomted out that at approxtmately 5 p.m., before they were to be booked, Dean of Students James Roemer tele­phc;med the jail. The student clatmed that Roemer apparently had al~eady l~arned ofthe arres~, but dld not a~range for thetr release at that tlme. . . 
T.he four studen~s d1d not gam thetr freedom unttl better than
five hours later. "Two of the students (who were involved in the scuffle, but not arrested) were badly beaten and had to be taken to the hospital." The Stlcl­dent noted here that these two friends were not arrested be­caus'e, as he quoted one police­man, "they got what they de­served." 
"When they {tne two injured students) returned, they went to Carroll Hall and spoke to the assistant rector. The assistant rector then called Dean Roemer, who in turn called Chief of Security Glenn Terry. ·Terry went to headquarters and ar­ranged for our release," at 10:30 p.m. 
"The officers made us sign a release form stating that we would not press charges for false arrest," one of the arrested stu­dents claimed. "I said that sign­ing that form would be an ad­mission ofguilt. The officer said that ifwe didn't sign the form, we would have to remain in jail until .. Monday. This caught me totally off guard. I had already been in jail for six hours, and I really didn't want to spend any more time in that cell, certainly not two days." 
"I only let the students go because I didn't want to ruin their careers over a disorderly conduct charge," said Sgt. Williams. "We want to show that we do have sympathy as far as students are concerned who are trying to obtain an education. We would also like to have the same respect returned." 
One student responded to Williams' claim that the students were guilty of disorderly con­duct, pointing out that the policement could not have actu­ally seen the fight begin because their view was obstructed by the number of recreational vehicles parked in the area. "It was two or three minutes after the begin­ning of the fighting that the fights spread i:o the road, in view of the police." The student re­emphasized that "at no time did any of us throw any punches.'' 

The students who were arrest­ed intend to press charges offalse arrest and incarceration, accord­ing to one of the students. "The police department was negli­gent," he said. "I would also like for anyone who witnessed the incident to contact The Observer." 
Olaplin film tonight 
The Charlie Chaplin film festival will continue tonight with a showing ofCtry Ltghts at 7 p.m. in the new Snite Gallery'sAnnenburg Auditorium. The festival will conclude Sunday and Monday at 7 p.m. with showings ofMonsieur Verdoux. Donation for all show­ings is $1. 


Wednesday, December 3, 1980-·page 5 




Editorials 
P.O. Box Q 

SOJ.OIIIS 
71£ NeW 
/~El./.,,/T'S
CRJM!NAt 
TA!<£N 50/rf&
O::UEJEEN 
GEmNG
ltKJIWNG 
usw 70..
01/T, ca+f-
I 
1 !i'AIJe? 

TH& /tiBUAR.Tla.&5PROY!a F(F. 7H& Pf?INC/Pf.E. (FPfJB­UC TR/At ANO 7H& RIGHT 
70 HI!?& m/163/.,. lH&Y ALso /?Bl(/1/?& l/MIT&O ~ANO 7H& USG 
OF /IJ4f?I?,AN75. I 
"soft" versions of vicarious sexual  of our physical nature but is rather  Dear Editor,  
stimulation in magazines, we need  a falsification ofit in the patronizing  After reading about the student  
hardly even  address those lower- attitudes of the editors. As for the  "vandalism"  after  the  Alabama  
budget rags, in which the photo- photographs, they're only photo- game. I fail to see where the students  
graphy is handled with all the grace  graphs. Ifthey're treated with some  really did any wholesale destruc­ 
of  an  anatomical  or  plumbing  sensitivity  and  not  with  that  tion.  All  they  were  doing  was  
manual. Itake it the" pornography"  moronic  prurience  of magazines  celebrating a victory in the biggest  
~hockingly acces~ible to Mr. S~asJy  li~e  !Jf,stler  or  High S~iety,  J"'r;ollege game  of the~ear.  What  

1s along the hnes of Playb~•don't see why we shouldn"'' look at were they supposed to'do after the 
PenthousP, etc.. which are nothing if not blatantly exploitative of women, but which try to convince 
us of their pseudo-aesthetic sen-d sitivity with misty photographs and occasional "poetical" marginalia. These products are fully capable of manifestingtheirownbanality. Itis not that the female body isn't simpI¥ a great deal offun t<? look at, especially when treated With some sensitivity-it's just that we get offended when the editors of Playboy seem to insist that there are really people out in the world Jiving like this, and that we're missing out on it all. This is all a lot of malarky. But those photos are still there. We're going to want to look at them. 
The problem here is not that we have any trouble recognizing how stupid these magazines can be; the problem is in Mr. Seasly's fear that 
them. Of course, in Playboy we game, go back inside and watch can't get one without the other. Love Boat re-runs? The most amazing thing about More importantly, if a person is ·the "crisis" is the speed with which 
a Christian he had better believe 

that God made the body, not just as the mayor's office reacted. The Observer's article, printed only two some trick or challenge so that we days later, already mentioned a 
have to struggle to liberate our possible meeting between Mayor "timeless spirits," but as some-Parent and Notre Dame to "remedv thing that deserves a certain degree the situation." It's comforting t~' ofexaltation. Ifnot, why would you know that the mayor finally realize~ 
bother to believe that Christ took 

we exist. human form? Mr. Seasly's con-Notre Dame students are robbed. temptu mundi attitude is seriously raped, beaten and shot, but Mayor misguided, and when he writes of Parent decides that he has better "our God-given humanness in its things to do than confer with the completeness," I don't think he has students. But as soon as students any grasp ofwhat human complete-celebrate in the streets and throw ness is at all. His Christianity, some toilet paper (the ultimate worried about over-exalting "the crime), the mayor springs into flesh" and about exposing us to too instant action. We should all be 
many threats in our moral dec­

isions, is still buying the old grateful to have such a responsive Platonic vocabulary of scorn for government. this world. Ifwe are well insulated John R. Stavinoha 
Inter hall . champions overlooked 
Dear Editor, 
The Observer's coverage (or 
lack thereof) of the St. Edward's 
victory over Grace in the interhall 
championship was, at best, deplor­
able. The coverage consisted of a 
hazy picture and brief caption on 
Tuesday and an apology and picture 
(but still no story) on Wednesday. 
Granted. this is not front page 
news, but surely it warrants cover­
age equal to that given the Breen 
Phillips-Farley game. 
The story (if run) might have 
mentioned that a hall without a hall 
won the championship, that the 
smallest hall defeated the largest, 
and that this team was not scored 
upon all year until the third quarter 
of the championship game (22 
quarters) when St. Ed's held a 24-0 
lead. 
It's unfortunate that The Observer staff felt that this story was too insignificant to report because the hall and team deserve more recognition for this outstand­ing effort. 
/J'IIIIW#~~~~ ~WAIII!t~~'SJAA. 


{}filM 
Jim Daill' President, St. Ed's Hail 

God makes all bodies 
Dear Editor, 
You certainly did Thomas Seasly 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
no service when you added a tongue-in-cheek heading to his letter in Nov. 21's Observer about the selling of "pornographic" materials in hall food sales. Unless Mr. Seasly intended the piece as a tongue-in-cheek ticking-ofT of the major Christian platitudes on sexuality and the body-soul dichotomy -if so such satire eludes me-you should have let the article stand on its own; it is perfectly well-qualified to condemn itself. 
You will not find here a defense of the "higher values" of all those titillating magazines, the names of which Mr. Seasly will not even deign to mention. I am pretty well reconciled to the idea that people will do whatever they damn well please-even Catholics-and if they want to. do a thing badly enough, you can be sure it will be properly rationalized into a moral framework. Or they will simply ignore the discrepancy between what they claim to believe and what they want to do; I don't hear anyone bewailing their own hypo­crisy. 
Let's face it: of the "hard" and they seem to be invading his world. In appealing to Christianity and the university environment to ban pornography -and we can suspect that Mr. Seasly might include the "nasty" passages from James Joyce or Alfred Stieglitz's nude photo­graphs he exploits both Christianity and this university in order to protect himself from threats to his own vulnerable beliefs. In doing so he moans that "pornography destroys the con­nection we have with God by exalting the fleshy side of our nature." This is utter drivel. On the one hand. pornography does no such thing: It is hardly an "exalting" 
from all those suspect materiaiJ 
that might make our moral choice 
more difficult, we need never really 
make a moral choice of any signif­
icance or intelligence, and the way 
for our souls to follow to heaven is 
less obstructed. I, for one, am sick 
to death of this self-insulatin 
tendency that gets itself endorsed 
in the name oftrue faith when it is in fact the utmost cowardice. 
James Buzard 
~ 

'Th ul • 


e ttmate "-~nm·e' 
Editorial Board and Department Managers


==Ihe__Qbseaer.== 
Editor-in-Chief............ Paul Mullaney SMC News Editor .......... Mary Leavitt Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor .............. Mark Rust Sports Editor ............. Beth Huffman The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe
EditoriaiJ Editor.. ......... Mike Onufrak 

University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. It does nor necessarily Photo Editor... .............. John Macor 
Senior Copy Editor ... Mary Fran Callahan 

reflect the policies of the administration of either insriruuon. The news is reponed Businm Manager . .......... Greg Hedges 
Executive Nr!Ws Editor ..... Tom Jackman

as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a Controller .................... .Jim Rudd majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are rh_e views News Editor ............... Pam Degnan Advertising Manager ......•.... Mark Ellis of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the c~mmumry, and News Editor................ Lynne Daley Circulation Manager ........ Beth Hackett the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, IS encouraged. SMC Executive Editor ...... Margie Brassil Production Manager ....... .John McGrath 


------~---------------. 
The Observer=========--===--=--=---=---=-=-=-=--========== 


T0 da~============W=ed=n=e=s=d=ay='=D=e=ce=m=b==er=3,=1=9=8=0=-=p=a=g=e=6 
Campus 

•12:15 
p.m. -micro­biology dept. seminar: "jn­terferons," dr. gary r. burleson, nd, galvin aud. ­

• 
3:30 p.m. -seminar: "optimal control of multi-I channel queuing systems," dr. thomas knowles, ill. inst. of technology, 303 cushing, sponsor: aero & mechanical engineering. 


• 4:1 5 p.m. -american studies majors: placement bureau meeting about job opportunities, grad school, etc., 105 o'shag. 
•4:30-6:30 p.m. christmas rose sale, dining hall, sponsored by alpha phi omega. 
• 4: 30 p.m. -afrotc awards ceremony, mem. li­brary aud. 
• 6: 30 p.m. -sailing · dub meeting, 203 o'shag, info about donahue cup re­gatta. 
• 7, 9, 11 p.m. -film, "when a stranger calls," engr. aud, sponsor: league of black business students, also december 4. 
• 
7:30 p.m. -hockey, nd vs michigan state, ace. 

• 
7:30 p.m. films, "double indemnity" and "the big combo," library aud, sponsored by the dept. of communication and theatre, admission $1. · 

• 
7:30 p.m. -student senate meeting, 124 hayes­healy. 

• 
7:30 p.m. -basket­ball, nd women vs georgia tech, ace. 

• 
8 p.m. -k. of c. elections meeting, k. of c. hall, elections of 1981 offi­cers, all paid-up/card-carry­ing members invited. 

• 
8:15 p.m. -faculty concert, adrian bryttan, mem. library aud. 

• 
9 p.m. -nazz, "high plains drifters." 

• 
10:30 p.m. -nazz, nd jazz band. 


Penance service 
There will be a penance service for Advent tonight at 10 in Sacred Heart Church. The ser­vice will consist of readings, prayers and songs for the season. Assistant Provost Sr. John ,\liriam Jones will lead the --:ervice. Bro. Joe McTaggart will preach the homily. The music for rhe occasion will be performed bv the 12:15 Mass group, "EtA!." l;he Campus Ministry staff has prepared the service, and invites ;til students, faculty and staff to 
participate. 



Want to Share Your Expertise? FREE UNIVERSITY 
Course Descriptions are due in the Student Union Office, Second Floor LaFortune, by THIS FRIDAY 
ANYONE CAN TEACH NO GRADES NO COURSE CREDIT FREE 


Molarity 

FOP: -nu: 11061 ~T{r TH/6 IS II-IE' 54ME 6~UPOFCARI>INA0 WHO Vo"TEJ> IN Wflt J"oHIJ PA/JL T I LJNP£R WHDI-1 711£" 
]R16H WENr 0 R?~ 2.., M)D.. 

Peanuts® 

As Told to Snoopy 

The Daily Crossword 
© 1980 by Chicago TribunE>-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Riahts Reserved 

, · JbHN PAUL 11:, wHO It> WE: 
PRESENT 'FrJNTiPF AS "THE 
IRI~H MAKE At.JOT11E:R BIP FOR 711£ NAT1DNAL CHAHPIDN­

I ,,t .... (. ( c ' ' I 'I '
I 
\ I I 1\ l I ' I , l ' I I ' I/ ' 
ll "''"'\"i'u''''f
''•''"' ,,,..,,,l,, ( 
'''"4''('•dtq ,,,,'

,,,,,,,,,,,. '.,.,, 
..__.... 
ft-21 
-·· 
ACROSS 27 Lachrymal 1 "Hold­drop line" 30 Anger 5 Part of a 33 Motive signet ring 38 Fragrant 10 Foxor compound 
rabbit 39 Mugient 14 Part sound 15 Does a 40 Pronuncia· 
stevedore's manto 
job 42 "-clear 16 Air day..." 17 Blackbirds 43 Water 18 Organic buffalo 
compound 46 Short-lived 19 ldi 49 Stone 20 Ponder workers 23 lndlaor 51 Presignifi· 
red cation 24 Part of a 52 Hebrew stair prophet 25 Pennant 55 Roman halls 


/*******************************\ 



~ ATTENTION JUNIORS! ~ 
* * 
~ Morris Inn Rooms ~ ~ Are Availabl-e For ! ! JUNIOR PARENTS # ~ WEEKEND : 
* * 
; Lottery Dec. 4 -Thursday ; ~ 6 p.m. LaFortune Rathskeller ! * * 
********************************** 
Michael Molinelli 



Charles M. Schulz 

Who was forced 
to listen. 

59 legume 61 Reflections 64 Cassini 66 Marner 67 "-the 
night before..." 68 Grimm 
character 69 Tocsins 70 Byway 71 Cobbler's 
need 72 Good thing 73 Remnants 
DOWN 1 Pamphlet 2 Goodname 3 Dress shape 4 Having made 
a will 5 Seafood item 6 Garage approach 7 Roman magistrate 8 Portable chair 
9 Disease· carrying fly 
10 Fold sound 
11 Onewho indulges in61A 
12 Cork's locale 13 Position 
21 Utopia 22 One: Ger. 26 Synthetic 
rubber 28 Goddess of 
mischief 29 Use a car 31 Rowlands 
of films 32 Of an age 33 Mosque 
prayer 
leader 34 A Charles 35 Mulls over 36 Bigwig 37 Resound 41 Pro­44 Dawn 45 Hindu land 
grant 47 Food 48 Qualify 50 Nap 53 Amigo's 
farewell 54 Noband Beacon 56 Martin's partner 
57-·OUt (not con· sis tent) 
58 Jennies 59 Natatorium 60 Miss Korbut 62 Novel 63 Helper: 
abbr. 65 Offspring 


Sports ~al-Wrestling Wednesday, December 3, 1980-page 7 




ND wrestlers host V alpo in opener 
By Bill Marquard Sports Wrrt'er 
With valuable experience at the Spartan Invitational already under its belts, the Irish wrestling team plays host Valparaiso on Wednesday, December 3 at 7:30 p.m. before journeying to Terre Haute, Ind. for the Indiana State Invitational on Friday and Saturday, Decmber 5 and 6. 
Not only will the Valparaiso dual meet mark Notre Dame's first appearance this season on its home mat, but it also will be first-year coach Brother Joseph Bruno's dli!but in the ACC. 
"Since 'Mr. Electric,' John Campana, is ailing wwith back trouble, the team will have to get its electiricity from other quarters,'' says Bruno. "It most prob­ably will come from the Grace Hall quarters of roommates Mark Fisher and Mike Mills. 
"I would expect that duo to spark us through the Valparaiso meet and into the Indiana State tournament." 
The Irish boast a perfect 10-0 slate in the all-time series with the Crusaders. In their most recent meeting (at the start of the 1978-79 campaign), Notre Dame prevailed, 3 7-3. 
C11rt Rood 
L.A. Alutnni Club offers USC activities to ND fans 

The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Los 
1\ngeles has announced a number of 
activities open to students and alumni 
journeying west to California hr the 
Trojan-Fighting Irish football game. 
Tomorrow Roger 0. Valdiserri will be the guest speaker at the monthly meet­ing of the Club. Valdiserri, who is the assistant athletiC director and sports in­formation director at Notre Dame, will speak at a luncheon to be held at Little 
Joe's Restaurant, 900 N. Broadway in Chinatown. Cocktails will begin at 1 I: 30 and. the cost of the luncheon is $9 per person. Those interested should note the activity has limited reservations and attendance will be based on a first-come­
first-serve basis. 
Friday there will be a Victory Rally on the second floor of the Los Angeles Convention Center, I 201 S. Figueroa. The rally will begin at 5:30 p.m. with a hospitality bar and the evening will in­cluded dancing and entertainment. At 7:30p.m. Moose Krause, the retiring athletic director of Notre Dame, will speak to the gathering. Also expected to attend the rally are the Irish football team, coaching staff and cheerleaders. Admission for this event is $5.50. 
Bill Panzica, a junior from USC, is in charge of decorations for the rally and urges any students or alumni interested in helping him to call 213-764-4664. 
The Club will sponsor a Booster Party .at 10 a.m. Saturday at the California Air 
and Space Museum. Admission is free 
for the party. 
Fnllowing the game the Club will host a post game party at the Museum. Ad­mission is free and the party will begin immedi:ltely following the game. 
Sunday morning there will be a Communion Breakfast at the Sheraton Universal Hotel in the main ballroom. Mass will begin at 9 a.m: and breakfast will follow the Celebration. Breakfast will cost $9.50 per person. Coaches and players of the Notre Dame footbalL team will be seated at each table during the meal. · 
Junior Rob Davis (Woodcliffe Lake, N.J.) will open the Irish assault at 118 pounds, with Fisher (Buchanan, Mich.) at 126 pounds and junior Curt Rood (Sturgis, Mich.) at 134 pounds. 
Mills, a sophomore from Mount Pleasant, Mich., who won an unprece­dented four prep state championships in Michigan, will anchor the lineup at 142 pounds, while Campana (Des Moines, Iowa) will battle at 150 pounds. Junior Brian Erard (Reston, Va.) will get the nod at 158 pounds, while sophomore Paul DeBaggis (Cleveland Heights, Ohio) will wrestle in his accustomed 167 pound slot. 
Junior co-captain John lglar (Cin­cinnati, Ohio) rounds out the sparse upper weight lineup at 177 pounds. Physically, the Irish have been plagued by many recurring injuries 

(Campana being the most recent ex­ample), but Bruno believes his charges are mentally primed. 
"Mentally, we're going great," says the mat mentor. "The team exudes a spirit and a togetherness, while constant growth and improvement is also evi­dent." 
The Indiana State Invitational, which features Indiana and Ball State along with the host Sycamores, is an open tournament to which the Irish will send both a first and second team. 
"The Indiana State tournament will be valuable because it will give a lot of our younger wrestlers their first taste of collegiate competition," says Bruno. "We have such a young lineup that many of our wrestler:; might not have the chance to get competitive exper­ience otherwise." 
Bruno guides grapplers as Irish head coach 
By Bill Mflrquflrd 
Sports Wrd.er 
First-year wrestling coach Bro. Joseph Bruno, may be new to Notre Dame but he is certainly no stranger to wrestling. 
A veteran of 16 years of coaching (12 at the high school level). Bruno boasts an impressive I01-31-2 record as a head coach. 
"The sky's the limit here at Notre Dame,'' says Bruno. "I see no reason why Notre Dame cannot develop into a national wrestling power; maybe even THE national power." 
Bruno, who joined the Irish staff in August, currently is completing a four­year program toward a doctorate degree at Stanford. He is researching pertinent implications for interdisciplinary­humanistic studies and specific appli­cations to stress control and the psychology of athletics. 
While doing his doctoral work, Bruno revitalized the Cardinal Stanford pro­gram that had lost its varsity status. "I left what could be termed a comfortable situation at Stanford for the mystique of Notre Dame," Bruno explains. 
"One of my friends back in California called Notre Dame 'a Sleeping Giant' and I hope I can awaken the 'Sleeping Giant' in the team and in every wrestler I coach." 
His interest in weight training has led to the research and implementation of his ideas in many programs designed to fulfill both men's and women's sports­related needs. This interest also led to his current dual appontment as coord­inating supervisor and coach of varsity and nonvarsity weight training at Notre Dame, a capacity that led Bruno to design and supervise the University's two new weight facilities. 
During his 12 years in the high school coaching ranks, Bruno started wrestlin~r 

programs at Holy Cross in San Antonio, 
Tex., and St. Francis in Mountain View, 
Cal. Only one of his teams ever ex­
perienced a losing season. 
A native of New Orleans, Bruno 
received a graduate degree in English 
and French from Saint Edward's (Tex.) · in 1966. He also owns a bachelor's 
degree in musicology and a master's 
degree in humanities from SanJose 
State. 

Bruno's experience in psychology 
definitely influences his coaching tech­
niques. "I place a critical emphasis on 
the psychology of wrestling, because I 
believe that is 90 percent of the sport." 

NOTRE DAME 
JUNIORS! 

,1978 Ford Ranger w/ Blade lift 1978 Chevrolet Blazer 
SKI TRIP to BOYNE MTN. Feb. 20, 21,22 
$117 Package includes transportation, 1977 Dodge Van -Psglodging, 2 meals per day and lift tickets. 
1977 Chevrolet Monte Carlo $25 Deposits will be taken 
1977 Chrysler Cordoba on Wednesday, Dec. 3 at 7 p.m. 

Contact:In Lafortune Ballroom 

R.G. Reed FIRST COME, ONLY 78 
University of Notre Dame Credit Union FIRST SERVE SPACES AVAILABLE 
283-4454 

• 

-~-~--~-----------------. 
Sports Special-Swimming 



Irish open season with ND Invitational 
By Michael Ortman 
Associate Sports Editor 

Sporting a roster that boasts 16 monogram winners, including 11 who own all or part of a varsity record, Dennis Stark will take his Irish swim­mers into their 23rd season Friday night for the annual Notre Dame Invitational Relavs. The six-team, all-relay meet is slated for 7 p.m. in the Rockne l\lemorial Pool. 
Among the five visiting schools will be rour of last year's contestants-John ~ :arroll, Toledo, Wisconsin-Stevens Puint and Wisonsin-Milwaukee. Illinois­:lenedictine is the newest entry. The 
1ost Irish took last year's title handlily 
,ith 96 points to Stevens Point's 76. 
.>h n Carroll tied Toledo for third with 
'• points and Milwaukee finished fifth 
. •th 37. 

The Irish will have four days to rest · :fore the regular season gets under way ''Wednesday (Dec. 1 0) when they play 
.>lst to \X'estern Michigan at 4 p.m. 
Notre Dame lost to the Broncos in a 
;earbreaker last winter, 58-55, when 
')ave Campbell finished just :00.02 out 
.Jf second place in the 500-yard free­
,tyle, just inches from a team victory. 
Stark's 1980-81 edition is laced with talent and experience, but the veteran coach is always leary of being too opti­mistic before he sees his team perform. "Our meets aren't contested on paper," he points out. "We swim in a pool. That's where we'll see if our potential materializes." 
Last year, Notre Dame finished with a 7-5 slate, the best in five years. And ifthe times now on paper are realized in the water Stark could have his fastest team ever ~t Notre Dame. 
This year's team is led by a pair of seasoned Irish veterans, co-captains John Komora (South Bend, Ind.) and Dave Campbell(NorthBrunswick, N.J.) Komora, a three-time most valuable swimmer for Stark and owner of three school records, is perhpas the most versatile and talented member of the team. The Adams High School graduate staged a sensational comeback last year, returning to action some six weeks be­fore doctors had anticipated after suf­fering broken ribs and a punctured lung prior to the season. 
Campbell was honored by his team­
mates at the end of last season as the 
recipient of the Charles W. Blanchard 
Award, presented to the team member 
who, by his or her performance, inspir­
ation and leadership contributed the 
most to the team. He also was recog­
nized as one of the team's most im­
proved swimmers. 

The Irish strength this year will most 
likely be in the style events, both the 
sprints and the longer distances. 
Komora was the top sprinter last season, 
but Stark may be forced to move the 
rnulitalented senior to the individual 
medley and/or the breaststroke because 
,.(a lack ofdepth in those areas. Komora 
,JWns the school mark in the400-yardii 
:4:18.5). 

IfKomora doesn't swim the 50, 100, 
200-yard freestyle, there are sever~!
Quality sprinters ready to score pomts. 
Senior Tom Krutsch (Bryan, Ohio) has
dways been dependable in the short 
distance events, and junior Mike 
Shepardson (Cooper City, Fla.), who
owns a leg ofthe 400-yard freestyle relay 
record(3.13.5)alongwithKomora,
Krutsch and sophomore Glen Battle 
(Lexinton, Ky.), is another top-notch 
.:ompetitor.Over the longer distances, junior 
\[ichael Hilger hopes to continue his 
•1ssault of the record books this season. In the last two campaigns, Hilger has 
established varsity standards in the 500 
(4:52.9), 1000 (10:07.1) and 1650-yard
(16:54.5) freestyle events. Campbell, who owned Notre Dame's best-ever time in the 1650-yard freestyle rorr less than 20 minutes (Hilger shattered Campbell's time in the second heat of last spring's Midwest Invitational) with a time of17:10.9, will most certainly help the Irish cause in 1980-81. Sophomore Greg Bohdan(Lake Charles, LA.) joined Hilger, Campbell andJohn Gibbons (East Meadow, N.Y.) on the record­setting 800-yard freestyle relay team (7.13.7). 
Notre Dame also will be strong in the backstroke this season. Junior Pat LaPlatney (St. Petersburg, Fla.) returns after a year off, hoping to chip away at the still-standing varsity records he set two seasons ago in the 100 ( :55.1) and 200-yard (1:59.8) backstroke. Sopho­mores Louis Bowersox (Springfield, Va.) and Battle ran neck-and-neck for last season's best times in the back­stroke events and look to do the same this year. 
Junior Don Casey returns with his sights set on shaving more time off the varsity record in the 200-yard butterfly. During the first two seasons with the Irish, Casey has sliced almost five sec­onds from the previous standard, cut­ting it to its current level, 1:57.8. Yet for the first time, Casey may hear footsteps this season as the team's top butterfly man. Shepardson seems to have shaken off the injuries which plagued his first two seasons at Notre Dame, and is in top condition. After setting a school mark in the 100-yard fly (0:52.6) late last spring, Shepardson worked all summer and radically crept into the national top 30 in the butterfly. 
It is in the breaststroke that Stark will be looking for pleasant surprises from his crop of nine freshmen, only two of which excel in the breaststroke. Junior John Willamowski (Mishawaka, Ind.) is the top returnee. The two-time mono­gram recipient posted the best Irish times last season in both the 100 ( 1 :04. 7) and the 200-yard (2:01.2) breaststroke. 
Komora, Battle and possibly Shepardson could be the top men in the individual medley. 
Notre Dame's diving corp remains completely in tact from last spring. Sophomore Paul McGowan (Dix ~ills, N.Y.) and senior Betsy Shadley (Cm­cinnati, Ohio) were the top divers a year ago, excelling from the one ar:d thre~ meter boards, respectively. Semor Chns Lenonard (Springifeld, Va.) also will score points in the diving events. 
Irish Swim Schedule 
Dec. 5  INVITATIONAL RELAYS  7 p.m.  
10  WESTERN MICHIGAN  4 p.m.  
Jan. 2'3  WAYNE STATE  4 p.m.  
24  ILLINOIS STATE  1 p.m.  
29  at Western Ontario  7 p.m.  
31  at St. Bonaventure  2 p.m.  

Home Meets designated by CAPITAL letters All times are local 
' 

Wednesday, December 3, 1980-page 8 


rr 


Uhe Winajammer 
FOR DISCRIMINATING MEN & WOMEN
-·· _...____ ,_, ___.._.. -·· -... --.... 


~..­
-Sourh Bend.. lndoana 46628 
HAIIIISIIIS FOITII 
Rr..



"=SUES ~ 

232-6622 
lli37l_SOUTN_ND 

1-----------------., I 1L Pri·CelI
]':;j

1 2 
I for Lad ··es II 
I All N• htl
IQ I
1 •
1 ~~
ht




I Thursday N ·lg
. I
I I 
II Lad,.es N,.ght I 
1 

I
I 

'I 
~~~~~~~~~~~~................................................ii ................................................... 

The Observer Wednesday, December 3, 1980 -page 9 



Irish boast many backs 
By Kelly Sullivan Women's Sports Editor 
Outstanding running backs I are synonomous with Southern 1 Cal football. The Trojan coach­ing staff seems to have no 1 problem coming up with a 
• Heisman candidate every year to 1 power their tailback orientedI offense. 
The Notre Dame football staff, however, has had a problem in the backfield department. But they're not nearly as bothered by it as Irish opponents are. 
Notre Dame simply has more talented running backs than they know what to do with. Head coach Dan Devine can only play two at a time. And that leaves him with impressive depth in a position where there is one sen­ior among the top eight half­hacks and fullbacks. 
Ofcourse, everyone knows the exploits of starters Phil Carter and John Sweeney, both merely sophomores. And substitutes Jim Stone and Pete Buchanan, who have seen almost as much action this season as the starters, 
I have turned in superb perform­
~ ances as well. 
! But how about their under­studies? There's junior Bernie Adell, who boasts impeccable creden­tials from Ipswich High School in Massachussetts. One of the most heavily recruited players in the 
, New England area his senior year, Adell led his high school to a state crown while rewriting its record books. Another heralded athlete, jun­ior Ty Barber, has been a depen­dable runner for the Irish at either fullback or halfback. A prep All-American, he was the 1977 recepient of the Washing­ton D.C. area's high school play­er of the year award. Barber, a regular kickoff returner for Notre Dame, started only one game last season, yet finished second on the team in rushing with 172 yards in 40 attempts. The Class of'83 has yielded its share of talented ballcarriers. Alabama native Rodney Morris, heavily recruited by Bear Bryant and by Nebraska's Tom Osborne, is another hard-driving 
1 contender at the fullback slot, and has seen considerable action on this season's specialty squads. Morris earned all-state and all­America honors in high school 

usc 




PEP RALLY 
Tonight-7 p.m. Stepan Center 
SPEAKERS INCLUDE: Coach Ron Toman Coach Gene Smith Dave Duerson John SWeeney Pat Kramer Pete Buchanan 
Your Last Chance To Send The Team On Its Way To A NATIONAL TITLE! 
also. 

And there's another sopho­more candidate for fullback, bruising runner and blocker, Larry Moriarty. This is Moriarty's first season of competition with the Irish, after playing his fresh­man year for Santa Barbara City College. There he was named to the all-conference squad and grabbed MVP honors after help­ing his eighth ranked{nationally) team to a 8-2 mark in Division 
III. His coaches at Santa Barbara called him "the strongest ball­carrier we've ever had." A member of the Notre Dame specialty teams, Irish fans know Moriarty has a reputation for annihilating opponents who stand in his way. 
Other running backs on the roster include talented freshmen Greg Bell from Columbus, Ohio, and John Mosley, a Nebraska native who played for nearby Culver Military. Both are highly touted players coming off out­standing senior seasons in high school. Bell has already scored his first collegiate touchdown, off a 27 yard run versus Army, and Mosley has averaged 3.1 yards in his 12 carries. 
Running back coach Jim Gruden must certainly sleep easy at night when he looks at that kind of depth chart. "They're all really good football players, there's no question about that," he says. "Some haven't had the experience that other players have had, but we have confi­dence that all ofthem can get the job done." 
When these cream of the crop runners come to Notre Dame they quickly find out that fresh­men seldom make a splash­the Irish have thorougbreds at every position and usually from every class. Did it come as a surprise to them? 
"I expected it to be compet­itive," says Adell. "When I was recruited here I knew they had Vagus Ferguson and Jerome Heavens and Jim Stone, but I thought I was going to have to competeatany school I went to." 
"Being the type of program it is here, you expect good comp­etition," adds Morris, "but the better the competition, the bet­ter player you become." 
It's safe to say that most of these players would be starters at a lot ofschools, so you could see why their lack of playing time might discourage the capable athletes. But they simply don't give up. 
"That's the great thing about these guys," relates Gruden. "They always come back trying. They always realize next year's another year, and you never know what's going to happen." 
Adell holds to that philosophy 
too. "Sure, transferring crosses 
your mind when you're not 
playing as much as you'd like to. 
But at a school like this where 
there's so much talent, you just 
have to wait your turn-it's like 
a pecking order. I just have to 
practice hard and be ready all the 
Rodney Morris john Mosley
time." 
"I don't mind being on the 
prep team," explains Morris. 
"My thinking is that any time the 
defense goes out and does great, I 
helped prepare them, so that's 
my contribution to the team. 
"The coaches are fair. When 
they have a chance, they'll play 
everyone but the main objective 
is to win and we all understand 
that." 
Bell, too, has made the tra.ns­
ition from stardom to prep 
squad. It's something he had 
foreseen. . 
"I knew it would be real com­
petitive, but I just have to stick it 
out," he adds. "I contribute by 
not making any mistakes when 
I'm called upon, and by just 
doing my job." 
Larry Moriarty GreK Bell 
.I 


799 
Crown Royal

Windoo• Sup,..,. 7 1Q99 999
Whiakey ·~ ~ ~ Whiakey _!~ .:-~ Vodka 
I 75 L 

Amaretto 
Koh•·· ...599

Coffee Liqueur _~ SAVE SO% Peppermint ,.. J99 Schnapp• _ -.-__ :'_ EAJ 499 
di Galliano 
'' 
Brandy __ _•::_"'_




··-599 

Petri v... 299 
99 
Sant1ria __,:*: 
Pink Chablil. Vin ROM', Chablia 
Med;ci ,,. 
229 
Lambruoco _':!
Rhine, 
Burpndy 
Taylor California Cellar 
a., ..... ,. R.... 299 
Rhine, ChabiM 
1.5 Ut•r -.-­
Pick Up Your Spirit• And EiQoy Lower Pricea! 
* 200 N. Main St. 
D..KtW.T, ztl.4110 

STORE HOURS: ,-,_,.,WAJ~J77.7171 R051l..A1C>, J7J.zuz Mon. thn. Tlluro. 
%)3.­
8 a.m. to 10 p.m. Fri. A Sal. la.m.-11 p.m. 
Pabat Blue 
R;~5'' 

::2:.,99
Liaht 
..._c:­
1199 


The 0 bserver Wednesday, December 3, 1980-page 10 



Uncertainty worthwhile 
Gruden tutors backfield 
Coaching football does not carry any guarantees. One does­n' t know where his next assign­ment will be let alone when an opportunity will arise. Yet for running back coach Jim Gruden, the uncertainty is trivial ifone is an assistant at the University of Notre Dame. 
"I've had the great fortune of being associated with Notre Dame," says Gruden. "It's a tremendous institution and the people are fantastic. Coaching for Notre Dame is a thrill not only because the players are gifted athletically but they are more than just athletes. They're great people. 
"As for what the future holds, I'm not certain. The only thing that matters to us (the coaches) is Southem California and Georgia. I' n, worried about what happens tomorrow. It's the present that counts." 
Gruden made several stops· before arriving upon the Irish scene in 1978. Upon graduation from Heidelberg (Ohio) College, Gruden accepted a position as assistant at Ross High School in Fremont, Ohio. Following his six year stint at Ross, he became head coach at Galion (Ohio) High School, serving two years. 
Gruden also assisted at his alma mater, where he was a three-year starter at quarterback, and coached four more years at 
1
the University of Dayton. 

But Gruden broke on to the major college scene when he accepted a position on the Indiana University coaching 1 staff, under the sometimes un­orthadox coaching style of Lee Corso. "Coach Corso is an en­rgetic type of coach," says Gruden. "Everyone has their own idiosyncrasies which don't necessarily reflect their coaching abilities. He's done a fine job at Indiana." 
Gruden spent five years in 
CAMPUS PRESS 
Needs a Secretary/Layout Artist to Work 1-5 Tues./Thurs. starting after Christmas Break 
• 
Job includes order processing, poster set-up, customer relations 

• 
No experience necessary/Paid position 

• 
Must be willing to stay on for the fall semester of1982 

• 
Applications being accepted until Dec. 5 Basement, LaFortune 1-5 






I-----------------,
Any Drink• 1 in the I 
1 House 11 for $1 1 I Wednesday Night: I I No. 1 Night I 
I I 

L----------------~ 
Hoosier country before being persuaded by Notre Dame de­fensive back coach Jim Johnson to apply in South Bend. "Jim and I both coached at IU. After he was named to the Irish staff, he recomrhended that I apply for an assistant's position," he says. 
Since his arrival, Gruden has had the distinction of tutoring outstanding running backs such as Vagas Ferguson, Phil Carter and Jim Stone to name a few. "Coaching running backs such as these make my job worthwhile," says Coach Gruden. "As far as technique is conc~rned, there's really very little teaching invol­ved when you have a back as great as Vagas. One thing I learned early was when you have an extremely talented athlete it's best not to over coach. You're better off just letting him n,m. 
"Ofcourse, with someone who lacks the great tools, you better coach like hell," he ·adds jok­ingly. 
However, there's more to being a successful running back than just running ability. "Our toughest job is to make our backfield aware ofthe defenses," says Gruden. "We have to make them realize exactly how our lineman will block and know where the running lanes are. After that, 75 percent of the battle is conquered and the rest depends on our backs' strength and quickness." 
Gruden claims that the full­backs have the largest respon­sibility because they are unaccus­tomed to the their role as block­ing backs. 
"The full backs have to learn how to be proficient blockers. In high school, they were used al­most exclusively as runners, not blockers and that's a tremendous adjustment. They have to learn how to adjust to bloking guys who are on the run while still maintaining their balance. 
"The fullback's responsibility is compounded because they have to be quick enough to lead the sweep and strong enough to lead on the off tackle plays too," adds Gruden. 
Whether coach Gruden will continue to draw X's and O's for the Irish backfield in the future is at present notdetermined. "I was introduced to Coach (Gerry) Faust last week but he gave no hints as to who he would retain .from the current coaching staff. The players haven't expressed to the coaches their opinion but I found him to be a very congenial person." 
Uncertaintly will always be associated with coaching foot­ball. Yet, Jim Groden's associ­ation with Notre Dame makes that uncertainty seem worth­while. 
... Montana State 
away for good, making the sec­ond halfa time for each coach to clear his benches. 

"Despite the score, I think we gained some self-respect to­night," said third-year Bobcat coach Bruce Haroldson. "I mean, at least we didn't get .completely blown out of the place. The way we played last night (Monday night in Valpo), I was praying we would get snowed out tonight. 
"A game like this helps us prepare for our conference schedule," he continued. "I think my players can learn a great deal from a game like this." Montana St. is a member of the Big Sky Conference, which has been dominated the past few 

Easy to pick up. Hard to put down! 
THE GREAT AMERICAN MOVIE BOOK, Paul Michael, Ediror. The ultimate and defini­tive source of movie trivia, filled 
with more than I ,000 movies, each with a cast list, production credits, a still from the movie, in· tere~ting sidelights, and more. In· eludes a complete list of Oscar winners through 1979. $9.95 
TUNE IN YESTERDAY: The Ultimate Encyclopedia of Old Time Radio, by John Dunning. A nostalgic and entertaining look back at hundreds of radio shows. Alphabetically listed, each entry includes story line. the actors, series dates. sponsers, network, everything! A great source of memories, history and trivia. $8.95 
NEEDLEPOINT: The Third Dimension, by Jo Ippolito Chrisr­enSt'n. A fully illustrated, step­by-step guide to adding depth and texture to needlepointing. Teaches over 80 stitches; applique techniques; offers tips on cleaning needlepoint; and includes a vari· ety of colorful and creative 3-D Needlepoint projects. $9.95 
WHAT IS THE NAME OF THIS BOOK? The Riddle of Dracula and Other Logical Puz. zles,byRaymondSmu/lyan. "The most original, most profound, and most humorous collection of rec· reationallogic and math problems 
written ..." -Scienrific American. Over 200 logical puz­zles and riddles give your brain a pleasant, yet rigorous, workout. . 4.95 

jim Gruden 
years by Weber State. 

The victory evened Notre Dame's record at 1-1, but, according to Phelps, the Irish are far from reaching their peak form. "I'mnotatallsatisfiedwith our defense," he said. "I think the reason we're not up to. par defensively is that we haven't replaced Billy Hanzlik. With him out there, it was like we had six defensive players out there. I 
think  he  kind  of  spoiled  
Tripucka,  Jackson  and  
Woolridge  to  the point where  

they coul i slack off on defense. But he's gone now, so we have to adjust without him." 
Well, the Irish have alread' come up with a clone of Adrian Dantley in Tom Sluby. Maybe some of the chemistry profs can go back to the laboratory and 

COMPUTER GAMES: For Businesses, Schools and Homes, 
by J. Nahigian and William Hodges. Dozens of computer games, ranging from Blackjack and Boggle to Star Trek and Ten· nis. Each game is written in BASIC and is designed for both microcomputers and PDP II and PDP 12 computers. Includes probability tables. $\0.95 


THE BEST OF RUBE GOLD­
BERG,Campi/ed by Charles Kel­ler. A rib-tickling collection of Rube Goldberg's impractically logical cartoon inventions for everything from the self-rolling rug and the better fly swatter to his foolish but fool-proof solution to oversleeping. $7.95 

These PRENTICE-HALL Books available at: 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556 
(219) 283-3568 
come up with a Bill Hanzlik clone-hopefully in time for the NCAA Tournament in March. IRISH NOTES: Notre Dame, now rated 12th and 13th respect­ively in the latest UPI and AP polls, continues its five-game homestand tomorrow night when they host the Horned Frogs ofTexas Christian Univer: sity at 8:00. 
]ane-o, I miss you! Tim 

~ 
' 

Sports cl=l=r=i=~:.J.:!J.s=============W=e=dn=e=sd=a=y,=D=e=c=em:;=be=r=3=,=19=8=0=-=pa=g=e:::Jll 
by The Ohrert·cr .wd Tht• A.rroaated Prt'rr 
The USC pep railvwill be held tonight at 7 A weie:htlifting clinic will be conducted by 
p.m. in Stepan Center. Speakers inc1ude Coach Ron Toman, Bro. Joseph Ifi:Gno, the coordinating supervisor and coach of Coach Gene Smith, Dave Duerson,]ohn Sweeney, Pat Kramer varsity and non-varsity weight training, on December 11. The and Pete Buchanan. clinic will begin at 7:30p.m in the ACCAuditorium. This clinic 
is open to the entire Notre Dame community. Club and varsity athletes are particularly encouraged to attend. 
The Sailing Club is sponsoring The Donahue Cup this Saturday, December 6. The race, to be held on St. Joseph's Lake , will feature F.J. sailboats. There will be a Student tickets for the January 1 Sugarskipper's meeting at 10 a.m. in the boathouse prior to the race. Bowl will be distributed on the third floor Convention Offices 
For more information call Greg at 277-7750. of the New Orleans Hilton, Poydras at the Mississippi River, New Orleans, La. 70140. Times for pickup are as follows: Monday, December 29 10-12 a.m. 2-5 p.m.; Tuesday, December 30 10-12 a.m. 2-5 p.m.; Wednesday, December 31 
Sugar Bowl ticket allocation for Notre 10-12 a.m. 2-'5 p.m.; and Thursday, January 1 9-12 a.m. 
Dame and Saint Mary's students for the January 1 game Studentsare reminded that to sit with another individual they between the Irish and Georgia continues today. Approximately must show up together and present their own respective ID sixteen hundred (1600) tickets remain gf the Notre Dame cards. Also, each student who ordered a ticket is responsible for allotment. Students desiring to attend the game should report picking up his or her own ticket. No exception to thisto the second floor ticket windows of the ACC according to the procedure will be permitted. All sales are final and there will befollowing schedule: Juniors and graduate/law students, today; no refunds. 
sophomores, tomorrow; and freshmen, Friday, December '5. The ticket window will be open from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. When reporting to the window you will complete an application with your name, identification number and class year. The cost of Last Bombs won the Co-Ree basketball 
tournament, defeating the Buffle Heads in two straight games 
the ticket is $1 7 and checks should be made payable to the Notre Dame Sugar Bowl. A student may present a maximum of last week. The final championship game went down to the two (2) identification cards and applications. The tickets will be buzzer as the Last Bombs triumphed 36-35. Thirty-two teams 
competed in the tournament.
sold on a seniority basis or until the supply is ~austed. Since the tickets allocated to the student body are intended for their personal use, students will receive the actual ticket upon 
South CarolinafootbaiiCoachJimCarlensaid
presentation of the ID card upon arrival in New Orleans. The yesterday he has not violated any NCAA rules and is not antimes and places where tickets can be picked up will be agent for Heisman Trophy winner George Rogers or anyonepublished in The Observer prior to Christmas break. 
else. 
In a formal statement released through the university, Carlen said he has a responsibility to both his "players and to the university that our student-athletes not become involved in dealings that could affect their eligibility." 
sh!~ t~;~!!l to!?r~!?r!!ts ;~~tig~~~h~ 
"Annually I advise my senior players in order to protectstadium. Individuals not turning in their equipment tomorrow themselves that any contact by agents, attorneys, etc., be will be charged a late fee. 
channeled through me." 
Top 20 
The Top twenty teoms In The Auoclated Press seoson college basketball pall, wtth nrst-place votes In parentheses. last sea­son's records cind total paints. Points based on 20-19-1&-etc. 
1. DePaul (38) 2-0 1,171 2. Kentucky ( 15) 1-0 1,085 3. UCLA (4) 2-0 1,002 4. Maryland ( 1) 1-0 941 5. Indiana 2-0 890 6. Oregon State (1) 1-0 861 7. VIrginia (1) 2-0 805 8. Louisville 0-1 789 9."' Ohio State 1-0 724 10. North Carolina 3-0 719 11. Arkansas 2-1 501 12. Iowa 2-0 450 13. Notre Dame 1-1 388 14. Texas A&M 1-0 344 15. Louisiana State 2-1 302 
16. St. John's, N.Y. 2-0 264 17. Missouri 2-1 202 18. 5yracuse 1-0 196 
19. Brigham Young H 107 20. Georgetown, D.C. 1-2 106 
On the air with WSND 
7riilay: 

HOCKEY-Notre Dame vs. Mich1gan State 
7:30 p.m. Tonmrrou' 

BASKETBALL-Notre Dame vs. TCU 8 p.m SPEAKING OF SPORTS -11 p.m. Frida)• 
HOCKEY-Notre Dame vs. Chicago Circle 
7:30 p.m. Saturdar 

DAN DEVINE SHOW-12 noon. open line 
12:15 p.m. BASKETBALL-Notre Dame vs. Cal Poly 
1:20 p.m. FOOTBALL-Notre Dame vs. USC 3:30p.m HOCKEY -Notre Deme vs. Chicago Circle 
7:30p.m. 

--------~~"-""""'""---------------1..------------.
1--------------------------------------------------­
Ail • 1.l~C.ii!Pij ,H1~ rl d~l lit> ltH t.:J'Vtl\1 hy 4 45 p ,., IWO davs rr10• '0 tt ,~..,tlf' '' wh11 t, tl 1r> .r.J IS rtm Tht! Obser\ler offrce wdl oicc.epr r!as~'trecu Mn~Hiih fiHOtr{Jh Frt,JM\o , n 00 rt ,.. 'U 4 45 p ,., All classtfted!!. must be








Classifieds 
tHf'·pirltl p,,llP.r 111 : •l.'t'iOtl 01 throllgtl the rndtl 
I 
Several houses lor rent, Suml\oer '81 NEED A COUPLE OF RIDERS TO NEW Needed: Two GA's lor California BOSTON BUS FOR XMASI Anyone MOLLY"S SECRET ADMIRER STRIKES and/or '81·'82 school year. Partially JERSEY OVER CHRISTMAS BREAK. Polytechnic B.B. game Sat. Will pay who mined the slgnup but needs a AGAINII am going to giveyou clues
NOTICED 
furnished, good condition. Call MUST BE FROM SOMERSET COUNTY big bucks. Call Sue-6777. ride can call MIKE 2836 or JIM 1528. , to my Identity, one a day tor the 287·5361 aHer 7 p.m. AREA, PREFERRABLY SOMERVILLE 
There are a couple spots open. next three days. II you don't knowOVERSEAS JOBS · Summer/vear 
WANTED: 4 N.D. vs I.U. b-ball llx

AREA. CALL JOHN AT 3106 (BEST AT Price $105 round trip. Leaves alter who I am by then, I may come right
round. Europe, S. Amer., Australia, Wish to sublet 1 space In CAMPUS 
please call Mary 8050

NIGHT). last exam. HURRY and SAVEll
Alia. All llelds. $500·$1200 monthly. VIEW apt. call Lisa P. 277-8848 out and tell you. Regardless, you Sightseeing. Free Into. Write: IJC, DESPERATELY need ride from CENT. FOR SALE-ONE FULL 8r ONE HALF will know who I am by the lime the
COURSE DESCRIPTIONS FOR FREE4 bdrm house 4 rent.$100·$200 mo 

SEASON B·BALL TIX-BEST OFFER­last paper comes out on Monday.
Box 52·1N4, Corona Del Mar, Ca. FlA. area· back to N.D. aller break. UNIVERSITY COURSES ARE DUE THIS
to the right party. 233-1329 MIKE-3683 Clue number one: Est-ce "Je vous
92625. WILL MEET WHERE CONVENIENT FOR FRIDAY IN THE STUDENT UNION alma beaucoup" ou "Je ralme
Need 1 roommate to lake up lease YOU, SHARE EXPENSES, etc.l Call OFFICE, ON THE SECOND FLOOR OF
Typing done $.50 page · pick up beaucoup"?
at CAMPUS VIEW APTS. Call Deniseat Brad at 1417 lAFORTUNE
and delivery 233-1329 'NEED 2 GA TICKETS FOR ND­
277·8803. "!U BASKETBALL GAME. PLEASE minor allerallons a repairs mens a
St. Mary's TOP 10 GUYS Abroad last veal'? Then get ready
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Emergency 
"CALJ.SHIRLEYAT8661 OR 1715 ladles pants, slacks, Jeans etc.
Bungalow, 10 minutes away lrom 1. Carlos lor BONDAGEIII St. Johann Revival
loans to Notre Dame students only. 
"IJEFORF. 5 PM. Shorten, lake In waist, take out flare,
campus. Relrlg, stove, carpeted. 2. Ed Partv·lhls Sat. at 10 p.m. This will bea 
OOOOQOOOOQ(IQ(I(IQOOOQ(IQ(IQQOQDQDDQDOOOQOQDOODDD

$20·$200. One percent Interest. Due replace zippers, buttons pockets
288·0955 3. Jim L real walk on the wild slde-b.y.o.b.
In 30 days. One day wall. Open ...................................... 
etc. Quality work, reasonable rates,
4. Chip lor trash can punch. Black leather11:30-12:30. M-F. Last davtoapplyls APARTMENT FOR RENT: NO Apartment University Park Mall area. All
5. Jim C. required.
Wed. Dec. 10. Last day ottlce will be NEED EXTRA NIGHT TO STUDY FOR
lor let during second semester. garments must be laundered llrst. 
open Is Thurs. Dec. 11. 6. John "HOT' FINALS OR SOME MORE CHRISTMAS
Furnished, 2 bedrooms located on .• Ill)• DISLOCATED COWS WANTTO MOVE 
Call between 6:00 a 10:00 PM. 277·
7. Jebl Ill>'\ 
MONEY? SELL YOUR IU B-BALL TICKETS.

4th floor lor security. Close to bath ON CAMPUS 3085
UGLY DUCKLING RENT·A·CAR. $7.95 
8. Bob 
CALL 1974.

campuses. Call 233-2631. BUT
a day and 7 cents a mlle. Phone 9. Steve GIRLS, NOW IS YOUR CHANCEl 255-2323 lor reservations. nMBO'S HTH HAS LEA AND HE IS NOW
FOR SALE: Student season B-ball WE MUST SUBLET OUR APARTMENT... IFCOUNTRY HOUSE FOR RENT TEN 10. Rick tickets. Larry 1631 YOU CAN HELP US, CALL 233·2631. CALL

AVAilABLE FOR ALL HIM ATMINUTES TO CAMPUS 277-3604 288­lA MESA ESPANOlA Ven y come 
RIDE WANTED FOR XMAS BREAK OR BETTER YE I, STOP BY HIS 
con Ius componeros eiJueves a las 0955 SEARCHING FOR PAIR OF TICKETS TEACH A FREE UNIVERSITY COURSE II
GOING TO WASHINGTON-ORE.· ROOM ANYTIME. A.G., THIS MEANS
FOR THE DEC. 91U GAME. CALL JIM AT IDAHO VICINITY. CALL GREG 1153 There will be Advent masses tor OFF­YOU.
12:15. Estamos en el South Dining TWO FURNISHED HOUSES FOR NEXT 1974 EITHER EARLY AM OR lATE PM.
Hall al lado derecho a Ia derecha. 
SCHOOL YEAR COUPLE BLOCKS TO 
CAMPUS STUDENTS lor the next 2 

. I I
Nos vemosl CAMPUS 277-3604 288-0955 Need riders to Portland, Ore. lor KATHY DAGES: SINCE YOU ARE THE
Sundays In Fisher Hall chapel. Join 

FIRST SERVER REMEMBER: TIGHTEN grad:law student. share sabbatical UPiilil 
Christmas break. Call 288-0416. .

PERSONALS 
your lrlends In celebrating this 

joyous season! MAGENTA. Where are you? 
home with student. close to!LOST/FOUND I campus two fireplaces carpeted [ FQR SALE 1 Les& Con Shape up or 1wlllleave 
OBITUARIES: Lost: A pair ol woman's, brown· very nice. Inexpensive 232·1523. ----and that would bea maJor problem, M.C. Tolfanettl George Wilmes, a tall, suave blond, 
ask tor charles. OREGON lor CHRISTMAS. United who would clean up alter you . Is just ONE of several HIGH PlAINS Airlines round-trip to PORTLAND. conn, have you found a clean cup DRIFTERS...See them all tonight at 
rimmed glasses In a light brown Mike Collins 
case. Probably lost In Nleuwland on For Rent large 3 bdroom house Carle Grusdls Worth $448. BEST OFFER. Charlie yet? the NAZZ at nine o'clock.
11/17. II round, please call 7995. close to campus will leave partially Lisa Long
1247. 
Joe Giglia

furnished call 232·6770 aller 6:00 To my Golden Dages, The Notre Dame Jazz Band Is
LOST: ONE "B" KEYCHAIN. PLEASE pm For Sale: Technics SL-D2 direct drive Thank you lor being who you are. playing tonlghHII 10:30 at the
Alita Buhman 

CALL 1868. turntable with cartridge; ProJect Love, Mauro Welch Nazz -right alter Geo1ge, etc. LOST on campus, 1 checkbook with 
One 50 walls/channel amplifier; 'D Kevin Kenney Black Dog, 
I. D.'s. II round, please call 232·1858 Infinity RS-A speakers. Practically nna Stephen or contact Sheila Conboy In 309 new, hear II to believe II. $700. or Mike Kllz
Hey Snake! II I'll get you yell LeBoeuf Rock and 11<'111 The battle of evermore, stairway to heaven. Four
O'Shaugneasy. offer· see Taj at 126 Fisher or call Mike Grant .
Need ride to Albany-Glens Falla, NY SEND SECRET ADMIREE CANDY slicks mlsly mountain (hop?) .
1925. Joe Gladue
FOUND: AI a formal this weekend, area lor Christmas. Will shore CANESII SMC Christmas Bazaar. 
going to Calltornlo when the leveeM.P. Ziolkowski 
one piece ol women's Jewelry. Coli expenses and driving. Call Dan FOR SALE: PIONEER CTF 1000 TAPE Only $.25 -FREE Delivery by cute breaks ...
DaveGaus

1284 to Identity. 1437 DECK. MINT CONDITION. $350.00 'SMC. chht' Order nowl Dec. 1-5 In ~~·--------
MlkeGies

Call Scott 8782. LeMons lobby. DAGES; VOU ARE THE FIRST 
Found: AI a formal last weekend, 1 Bill Hachul
Two roommate• wanted lor spring
piece ol women's Jewelry. Call12aA NO Student B-ball tickets, Lower DO YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING Cathy Collins Only JO,_ ot Saint Mary's students 
semester. Campus VIew, $108 mo.
and Identity. Arena, all games, Best otter, John, NOWII COME TO THE ST. MARY"S ST. Mid-wei! Auauln ol the week: Mike contributed lo CANCO. We need 
Call Jane or Laura at 277-8646. 
1378. NICK'S CHRISTMAS BAZAAR. Today (how do you spell thai name?) 100,_ cooperation. Give your $1 to KEYS LOST: Set ol three keys (two are your section rep today.
through Friday In the LeMons Hall OtmanRide needed lor 2 to Pittsburgh lorUniversity keyl) on a leather keV lobby from 10 am to 5 pm.

Xmas vacation. Can leave otter­
holder. 11 round, PLEASE call susan THE ELEVENTH COMANDMENT: THOU 'Quard and Frankie -California. 
noon of Dec. 18. Will share costs. SHALT KILLI NOWIII here we cometII
. 
.__I_T_IC_K_ETS---Jf
at 277-88391 Attention Juniors • Senior Trip Sign· 
Call Paul 1473, or Lori 41-4772. 
ups Dec. 3 8r 4 at LaFortune 11·2:00, LOST: Set ol keys between North need G.A.s and 1 student ticket lor Lemons, 11-1, 8-9:00. Bring $25 RUN AROUND SUEIII RUN AROUND Q: Where Ia the favorite meeting Dining Hall andGraceHall, 12·1·80. Ride needed to Milwaukee Frl Dec 6. SUEIII RUN AROUND SUEIII place ol holiday revellers In the
Indiana BBall game. call 1608. NON-REFUNDABLE DEPOSIT. 11 round please call 1620 anytime. Will share gas and driving. Call ----Yukon?
How Long does H take to run 

Linda 277-8785. Need 3 Indiana GA's Typing In mv home. University Park A:. Why, under the mooaelloe. of
around Sue?

PAY$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Mall area. No calla alter 10:00 PM. course!
-----~-­

FOR RENT Babyslller needed mv home lor 20 Call Dennis 8719 277-3085 HAPPY 8-DAY KIPPER! Love yo, (ChrlsmooMis coming, you know!) 
hours a week. Begin Jan. Call 287-Cathe, Gil, Mary NO Ave. Apt. to Sublet • 2 bdrm., WANTED 2 Indiana Tics. Will pay SPORTS STAFF: NO MEETING THIS Thanks tor the outs!, Margie.
5718 I lurnlahed, street vi-. secure, and WEEK. PLEASE CALL IIETH OR MIKE
mucho buckoa. 277-8699. Have V()u given your dollar to Consider vouraett a lifetime convenient to campus. $85/mo. Need riders back !rom Dallas on BEFORE WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10. CANCO? Last week 70,_ of SMC member of the Mooaeketeers. forgot. Give today.
Jan. 10 or 11. Call Greg 6764 Moose ControlContact 23A·08A5. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 


SRorts 
Irish down Montana State 
By Chris Needles Sports Wrtier 

Contrary to popular belief, Adrian Dantley has not re­enrolled at Notre Dame. 
That 6-4, stocky, muscular Irish freshman who sparked Notre Dame to a methodical89­M~ home-opening victory over .\lontana State last night at the :\CC was not a Dantley clone, 11ut swingman Tom Sluby. 
Sure, Kelly Tripucka had his lUstomary 27 points. And Tracy )a,·kson shot six-for-nine, finally ,~i~covering his outside shot that had been MIA last Saturday in l'auley-Pavillion. John Paxson 
hipped in six assists, and two of · >rlando Woolridge's 11 points .une on a rousing slam dunk. Rut Sluby, who like Dantley 
·:tils from Washington, D.C., , lrew the most attention among the 11,34 5 present last night. In :ust 14 minutes of action, Sluby ,cored nine points, pulled down four rebounds, <tnd dished out two assists in key moments ofthe game, helping break open what was a surprisingly competitive game for the opening 18 min­utes. 
With the Irish leading "only" 38-26, but with Bobcats still within striking distance, Sluby entered the game with 3:55 left in the first half. A minute later, he made a pretty feed to forward Gil Salinas for an easy layup. Then, after a Montana St. miss, Sluby drove down and hit a pull­up jumper in the lane. And then, Sluby grabbed a rebound, , drove the length ofthe floor, and hit forward Bill Varner for a driving layup. Notre Dame led 46-27, the Bobcats called a time­out, and the crowd, suddenly awakened, stood and saluted their new hero. 
"I'm really pleased with the way Tom has devdoped," said Irish coach Digger Phelps after the game. "He's shown a lot of poise and a lot of patience out there. I wish I could play him more, but I must _get Billy (Varner) some time also." 
Montana St., who was coming off the embarrassment of a life­time after losing to Valparaiso on Monday night (59-52), apparent­ly had been informed from their scouting ,.reports to exploit Notre Dame's lack ofquickness. From the opening tap, they ran the ball up and down the court, often times without even dribbling it. But, somehow, they kept up with the Irish in the first half, closing to within two points (27-25) with seven minutes left in the half. Then Notre Dame reeled off a 19-2 spurt to pull 

On Irish dilemma 

Lefty : no explanation 
Lefty Smith, hockey coach at Notre Dame, sits back in his chair and sighs. A man who normally wears a smile, who usually has something to say, he finds himself at a loss for words, 
"I wish I knew what was wrong," he laments. 
There is no smile. A worried look covers his face. It's been this way for over a week. His team is sinking -fast. 
The Irish, who play Michigan State tonight at the ACC (7: 30 faceoff), have lost five games in a row this year and are tied for eighth place in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association with a 3-7 record (5-9 overall). They have not won a game at theACCsince Feb. 2 ofthis year-10 monthsago. 
"Basic mistakes, the basics cost us," Smith says ts he describes how Michigan scored each ofits 11 .~oals last weekend in sweeping Notre Dame: one >laver not covering his wing on defense, sloppy ~>lav in their own zone, poor puck control all over. 
Basic mistakes. Why? 

"Sometimes we don't push hard enough, other 
: nes we try too hard," he says trying to rationalize 
-;treak of near-horrendous play. "We tighten up 
,ut there, sometimes going against one another. 
''S::turday's first period was one of our best all -e<tson. Then we turn around and give the game .Lway. We stop passing well, don't shoot effec~ ~i\·ely, lose puck control out there. I wish I knew ·he reason." 
Twice in a row while on a power play Saturday, 
the Irish tried to set up in Michigan's zone by !umping off the end boards. Twice the ·.volverines cleared the zone easily. Dump and t:hase on a power play? 
Opposing goalies could probably go into real estate brokerage for the empty area in front of their crease. The Irish do not set up in the slot consistently, looking for a rebound ora deflection. Basic. 
"We do it in practice," says Smith. "Butwe don't 

Brian 
Beg lane 
in the game. The basics are hurting us." 
And the hole grows deeper. Only two league games remain before Christmas break. Then, as February nears, come the crucial drives towards the playoffs. 
If things don't change soon, Notre Dame's hopes for home ice will be all butgone and the race will be to make the playoffs-which the Irish have never missed. 
South Bend is not a hockey hotbed. Opposing players agree the fans here are bad. Notre Dame players feel it, too. "Playing on the road and at home, in terms of crowd motivation, is like night and day," was one comment. 
But it's no excuse. Not for 1"0 losses in a row here. Noiseless fans don't make home ice work .tgainst you. 
Is it Smith? Some feel so. The coach usually gets blamed at times such as these. But all the coaching in the world can't stop a defenseman from coughing up the puck in his own zone or a wing from holding onto a pass. Practice it all you want, the player is on his own for 120 minutes each weekend. He-the whole team-has to have it together. For more than one or two periods. Long enough to put together a victory. 
The Irish have not done that in five games. Tonight represents another chance ifNotre Dame wants it. The Irish must stage a turnaround ifthey are to stay within striking distance in the WCHA. If they don't turn things in the next two weeks, they'll have a lot to think about during Christmas vacation. 
Wednesday, December 3, 1980 -page 12 

I rish 

tetns 


By Bill Marquard 

HOW DO YOU SPELL "CLASSIC"-"Classic" is the best adjective to describe this Saturday's long-awaited and much­publicized annual showdown between Notre Dame and Southern Cal. No less than seven of the last 14 games in the series have been instrumental in determining the national champion, with the Irish garnering the mythical laurels in 1966, 1973 and 1977 (the only times in the past 14 years that the Irish have upended the Trojans) and USC copping the honors in 1967, 1972, 1974 and 1978. 
Besides being the seventh straight Irish-Trojan clash to be telev1sed nationally byABC-TV, Saturday's matchup marks the sixth time in the last nine meetings that at least one of the combatants has come into the game undefeated. Even when there was no unbeaten record on the line in 1974, 1976 and 1978, neither team had more than two losses. 
The highly-touted intersectional rivalry between the two universities has been contested annually since 1926, with the exception of1943, 1944and 1945. Going into the 52ndgame in the series, the Irish hold a 27-20-4 edge (although the Trojans have prevailed in eight of the last 10 meetings). 
In fact, the Irish have a six-game losing string in the Los Angeles Coliseum, dating back to their 51-0 rout ofthe Trojans to cap offthe 1966 national championship season and vault the Irish past Michigan State to the number-one spot in the polls. Notre Dame's overall record in the West Coast facility is 11-13­3, including the upset-that-wasn't in 1978. In that game, _the Irish rallied behind Joe Montana for 19 fourth quarter pomts and appeared to sack USC quarterback Paul McDonald with less than two minutes left in the fourth quarter, causing what would have been a game-ending fumble which the Irish recovered. However, despite the fact that McDonald made little motion, if any, to pass, the referees ruled the fumble an incomplete pass. Trojan placekicker Frank Jordon booted a last-second field goal to manage a 27-25 Trojan win. 
RATE CHART-The Irish defense is continuing its domination of NCAA defensive categories. A comparison of the Trojans and Irish: 
Notre Dame USC Rushing Def. 6th-102.0 yds. 5th-96.9 Passing Def. 11 th -111. 3 yds. 7 2nd Total Def. 4th-213.3 yds. 9th-245.7 Scoring Def. 4th-9.1 points 20th-13.1 
The defense's string of quarters without surrendering a touchdown was snapped in the fourth quarter of the Air Force game. They set an all-time team record of 23 straight quarters without allowing a touchdown, and went a full 27 quarters without allowing a six-pointer on the ground. Irish foes have managed only 19 points in the last six games. 
Ifthe defense keeps up its stingy pace, it could finish with the best averages ofan Irish squad in recent years. The total defense mark (213.3) would be the best since the 1974 squad allowed 
195.2 yards per game. The rushing defense mean (102.0) would be the best since an 89.2 average by the 1977 national champions, and the passing average(111.3) would be tops since the 1975 Irish gave up a 98.4 yard average. 
HARRYING THROUGH THE RECORDS-Irish place­kicker Harry Oliver is still rated third nationally with 1.7 field goals per game. His 70 point total for the season is only five points shy of Dave Reeve's single season record for a placekicker, set in 1977. 
Oliver has converted 17 of22 field goal attempts this year. A breakdown of those field goals by distance: 
•0-19 yards  - 2 of 3  
• 20-29 yards  - 3 of 5  
• 30-39 yards  - 6 of 6  
• 40-49 yards  - 4 of 6  

• 50 or more yards -2 of 2 
TRANSFER-CREDITJOKE OF WEEK-How many Pac­1 0 (Pac-5 ?) football players does it take to screw in a light bulb? 
One, but five get credit. 
HOOSIER HYSTERIA-Notre Dame's basketball game with Indiana marks the renewal ofa long rivalry which has not been contested for the past two seasons due to scheduling conflicts. But Irish matchups with Bobby Knight's basket­bailers are already scheduled for the next three seasons after this, on December 1, 1981 in Bloomington, December7, 1982 here in theACC andN uvember 29, 198 3 back in Bloomington. 
STRUNG OUT-When the Irish fell victim to UCLA at Pauley Pavilion last Saturday night, i~ snapped a string ofseve? straight season openers which the lrtsh had won. It seems as tf Digger Phelps is relying on his philosoi;JhY of two se~sons ago, whereby he utilized liberal substitutwns. The Insh bench accounted for 53 minutes of playing time against the Bruins, more than one quarter of the team's total. 






