• • . Slapped,clapped-page 7 
VOLUME XV, NUMBER 29 an ind~pend~nt stud~nt n~wspaper s~rvinp not~ dame and saint mary's 11JESDAY, SEPTEMBER ~0, 1980 
UN. effort in vain 
Iraqi advances hit resistance 
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP)-Iraq agreed yester­day to a U.N.-requested cease-fire provided Iran did the same, but the fighting did not subside. Iraqi troops and equipment moved southward inside Iran toward the enemy's oil heartland, where Iranian resistance appeared to have stiffened. 
Iraqi President Saddam Hussein said in a letter to U.N. Secretary-General Kurt Waldheim that Iraq would heed a Security Council appeal for a cease-fire if Iran also would. Hussein urged the council to "take necessary measures to urge the Iranian side to abide" by the resolution ap­proved Sunday. Iran did not respond im­mediately-to Waldheim. 
In other diplomatic moves: 
-Iran's ambassador to the Soviet Union, Mohammad Mokri, said at a Moscow news conference Iran might agree to a cease-fire if Iraq'·s president resigned, Iraq's army sur­rendered, the Iraqi city of Basra were turned over to Iranian control pending an election there, and Iraq's Kurds were allowed to vote on whether they wanted autonomy or to join with Iran. 
-A special envoy representing Iranian President Abolhassan Bani-Sadr met in New Delhi with Indian Prime Minister IndiraGandhi and said he urged her, as a leader in the non­aligned movement, to help end the war. The envoy, Shams Ardakani, said Cuba, the current chairman of the · nonaligned bloc, also was playing a: role, but he did not elaborate. 
-A "goodwill" mission from the Islamic Conference arrived in Baghdad. The mission ­
headed by conference leaders, President Mohammed Zia ul-Haq of Pakistan anq con­ference Secretary-General Habib el Chatti of Tunisia -was told by Iranian leaders earlier in Tehran that it would not be permitted to mediate the Iraq-Iran dispute, but could gather facts. 
-Iraqi Foreign Minister Saadoun Hammadeh left here for New York to appear before the U.N. General Assembly and defend Iraq's position in the war, Baghdad Radio reported. 
. . . ' 
Crrme, cnme, crrme. 

Fisher Hall reports robbery 
By Mary Fran Callahan Senior Staff Reporter 
Campus crime continued last 
week when thieves, believed by 
Security to be local residents, 
stole an AM/FM radio cassette 
player from a Fisher Hall room. 
The theft occurred shortly 
before dinnertime Tuesday, 
when hall resident John Stein 
stepped out to the Bookstore 
"for just ten minutes." The 
student locked his door before 
leaving his room. 
When Stein and hallmate John Dierna returned from the 
Bookstore, they discovered 
that Stein's $200 AM/FM radio 
was missing. Immediately, they 
began questioning hallmates to 
see if anyone had seen what 
Dierna deemed "suspicious 
characters." 

Section members reported seeing youths wandering through the halls, wearing strange cowboy hats, according to Dierna. Stein, Dierna and hallmateJohn Dohopolski then ran outside to see if they could ,wot anyone escaping with the 
radio. 
The trio spotted two men in a 
yellow car. The pair was hur­
riedly leaving Fisher's parking 
lot. 

"We went running to see ifwe student, "The guy just laughedcould get the guys," at me. I wanted to know how the Dohopolski explained. car got on because they
The chase proved unsuccess­(Security) hassle everyone else. ful, however, for the car fled They just showed no concern at campus. Stein questioned the all," Stein said. Security guard working the 
[continued on page 4]
main gate, but according to the 

At the forefront ofthe current trend for moose's, this mangy fellow would seem to have found a home with some Pennsylvanian. [photo by john McGrath] 


Commissioners determine allocations 
By Davrd Sarphie 
example, we are planning a punk rock party in the nearThe allocation of qver future. That should be quite a$1 36,000 in student activities unique experience."
fees was determined Sunday in a The Student Governmentmeeting of the Board of received the second highestCommissioners. 

allocation, acquiring $28,000.
This board is comprised Although the student govern­predominantly of student body ment leaders had asked forleaders, and the directors of the $41,000, Paul Riehle, PresidentHall President's Council, the of the Student Body, said theOff-Campus Commission, and results followed trends of pastthe Judicial Board. 

years.
The Student Union received Riehle noted that much ofthealmost sixty percent of the money will be used to improveallotment. Associate Director various academic and socialDale Robinson said that most of the money will be used to aspects ofstudent life. "We use a lot of the money for such student services as student orientation, the Ombudsman, and the printing of the aca­demic course evaluation book­let," Riehle remarked. 

The organization is also in­volved socially in campus life, sponsoring the Social Concerns Film Series and the "Takea Prof to Lunch" program. 
In a move to fight the in­creasing rate of off-campus crime, the Student Government is also planning to buy a house. The purchase, which will be co-sponsored by the Off-Campus Commission, is the first step in the organi­zation's attempt to create a model neighborhood. Riehle observed that the house will be equipped with various security devices, which are missing from current student housing. 
Also receiving funds were the Off-Campus Council ($3~00), the Judicial Council ($800), An Tostal ($7900 for ND and 
[continued on page 4] 

By C ece Baltles 
Saint Mary's student govern­ment will not be running the annual United Way Fund Drive. This year it will be run through Dr. Clarence Dineen, professor ofBiology atSaintMary's, using volunteer students. Captains will be appointed in each of the five dorms to collect money, Dineen explained. 
In previous years student government leaders were asked to run the fund drive by the faculty and· administration, Kathleen Sweeney, president of student government explained.
With the app_roach ofOctober andcool wea_ther,. this furry fellow 
"Doing this projected the 
enjoys a solitary sun-bath. [photo by Chns Spttzer] 

image of the United Way being -~ -------··---­
improve social life around campus. Using volunteer students 
"We dream up programs that other groups wouldn't think of," she pointed out. "For 

Profruns SMC United Way 
the student charity. Student government does not have the power to run this charity drive without the consent of the students." 
Student government never endorsed or rejected the United Way as the student charity. "The problem is not whether it is a good charity or a bad charity, or whether it funds abortion clinics or not. The issue is that it was never voted on by the students," Sweeney added. 
At a Board of Governance meeting, the hall presidents were asked to go to the Hall Council, which consists of representatives from each sec­tion, to determine "whether the United Way should be the student charity," Sweeney ex­plained. "The general con­sensus in all five donns was' no.' Sometime before October break we will narrow it down and through survey select the student charity." 
Tne names of students in­terested in the United Way were given to Dineen to or­ganize a fund drive. "I want to clarify that student goverment is not judging whether the United Way is a good charity or a bad one. We just feel that the decision for the student charity 
(continued on page 4] 

--~-~­

' 


News Brie/§ 
Tuesday, September 30, 198Q -page 2 
Inside Tut5day 

Fameless Planner Rector 
Flood threatened Oakland's 
main water supply and 45,000 more acres ofcrops yesterday after millions of dollars worth of crops were already de­stroyed by river delta waters. Winds and high water hampered efforts to plug the break in the earth-and-rock levee, and parts of the flooded 5,000-acre Lower Jones Tract were under water up to 25 feet deep. No injuries were reported from the flooding. Rolling floodwaters during the weekend ruined the homes and destroyed some $5 million of ready-to-harvest corn, tomatoes, beets, asparagus, potatoes and millet. Hundreds of seasonal workers ready to harvest crops were without jobs. -AP 
President Carterdeserves to be thrown out 
of the White l-Iouse for policies that have deceived and misled the nation, former President Gerald Ford said yesterday. At a luncheon on behalf of Lt. Gov. Robert Orr, the GOP nominee for governor, Ford said Carter's defense policies have weakened the country "to the point where we are no longer trusted by our allies or respected by our adversaries." In Evansville, he saidAmerica is getting weaker while the Soviet Union gets stronger, and that the positions assumed by Carter and backed by a Democratic Congress have diminished the country's capacity to maintain peace and deter aggression. Ford recalled the "misery index" cited by Carter during his campaign against Eord four years ago. The 1976 index, a combination of unemployment and inflation rates, stood at 15.8 percent, he said, adding that un­employment and inflation now add up to 21 percent. -AP 
The Food and DrugAdministration said 
yesterday it has asked five major tampon manufacturers to put warning labels voluntarily on all boxes and brands of tampons. The agency reiterated its plans to propose a rule requiring a label warning women that tampons pose a risk of the rare but deadly disease called toxic shock syndrome. Studies indicated Rely was used by an unusually high percentage ofwomen who got the disease. But the syndrome has also been found in women who used other brands and in some men. The FDA telegram said the Center for Disease Control has learned of more than 300 of the cases since 

January, with 28 of them ending in death. -AP 
Dr. Thomas T. Mueller, professor of 

aerospace and mechanica~ngineering at the'University of Notre Dame, has received the 1980 Education Achievement Award of the American Society for Engineering Education Aerospace Division and the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. The award recognizes "the lasting influence of his recent contributions to aerospace engineering education." 
A Notre Dame faculty member since 1965, he recently completed a report detailing the development and use ofthe smoke tunnel, an important experimental tool, work pioneered at Notre Dame by the late Professor F. N. M. Brown. 
"One of his most significant contributions to aerospace engineering education is the importance he has placed on flow visualization," according to Dr. Albin A. Szewczyk, department chairman. "He has followed in Prof. Brown's footsteps and continued to pioneer flow visualization techniques." . 
A prolific and internationally respected researcher, Mueller's wor~also has included studies on gas dynamics of separated flows, numerical methods for compressible and incompressible fluid mechanics, propulsion aerodynamics, and bio-fluid mechanics. 
His enthusiastic dedication in-and beyond-the class­room has been recognized by "Teacher of the Year" awards from student engineering societies. He has designed and developed major laboratory facilities at Notre Dame for both instruction and research directed at areas including im­proving fuel efficiency of rocket and air-breathing pro­pulsion systems, understanding the basic fluid dynamics of viscous separated flows, and improving the long-term in vivo performance of artificial heart valves. -The Observer 
Clear nights and mostlvsunny days through tomorrow. Highs today and tomorrovfin the upper 70s. Low tonight around 50. 
Bro. Pete Mahoney isn't exactly the most celebrated of campus celebrities. Some may think that his biggest claim to f:;.rne at Notre Dame was his recef1,t appearance aside Fr. Hesburgh on this year's United Way posters. 
But glory is the least ofhis priorities. As rector of Planner Hall,Pete (most Planner residents know him by first name only) is not after campus recognition. In fact, Pete is not after any type of recognition.His main concern is keeping an open line of communicwtion with the residents of his hall-which is no easy task when dealing with 550 students. 
It is amazing that Pete has achieved the camaraderie he has with the students at Planner. His best tool of communication developed after he started the job two years ago and published his first hall newsletter, the Now and Then. A handwritten message ("I am somewhat retarded when it comes to machines -even type­writers"),the Now and Then is distributed exactly as the title implies.While the physical ap­pearance of the newsletter looks nothing better than a rough draft-a real rough draft-of a freshman compand lit paper, the Now and Then is 

·by no means shoved aside by Planner residents. 
Some Planner residents have even kept Pete's words on file. They are hardly words to be shoved aside. With that in mind, I'd like to share some of them with you. 
In Pete's very first newsletter, he set the tone for those to follow: 
"Ifyou everfeel frustrated by institutions, it is a!fOOd sz~n. It could mean you are maturing beyondthe confines oj that particular womb. Institutions are basically conservative. This is one reason why they incorporate themselves, and live forever; whereas, you and I just fade away. Someone once saidyou are as free as the cage you build for yourself. May I suggest that as you build your cage, it includes an area beyond this campus. It might help yourperspective. Remember, also, asyou write your story, you are responsible for its contents. 
Pete often conveys an important message through stories and parables-whether bor­rowed, edited, or originally composed. Ashe says in one of his newsletters, "God made people because He loves stories. One ofGod's greatest stories has been that of the Incarnation. Sometime relax, think about that story He/She has shared with us, and rejoice! Relax, Reflect, Rejoice!!!" 
In his newsletter, Pete will include parables from the Bible, or maybe from Tolstoy, or maybe from his own collection. And to be honest, it isn't all that easy to tell them apart sometimes. 
But Pete's parables aren't necessarily the most valuable components of his collection (he himself does not collect the newsletters,how­ever) -at least to this Planner resident. The most popularNowand Thens are those that reflect 
~ 
o..,_., 
Paul 
Mullaney 
Editor-in-chief 


Pete's mellow disposition.(He will often tell you that "I'm just be-ing" or "I he-ed.") 
The most recent newsletter-this year's welcome back note-is by far my favorite. It beats reading about off-campus crime. In it Pete says: ... 
"I was struck byyour eagerness to return, pick upyour keys and lock yourselves in those cellsfor nine months. I hope they are months ofgrowth, not stagnation. 
"W't'th all the pressures and expectations on you, try to keep things inperspective. The big things have been taken care of The planetis here, you were born, you have been 
:redeemedandyou are goingto die. Everything else should Ihe downhill. There are some exercisesyou may want to do 1to gain a sense ofperspective. Saunter, don't jog-it's easier to smell theflowers. Check the Golden Domefrom your rear view mirror or the back window1of Transpo. 
'Cultivate relationships, not productivity -remem­ber,people are relationa~ not functional. Identify yourself without mentioning major, GPA, or being busy. No one ever said that being busy was a virtue. Relax, enjoy your friends and yourself.A hove a/~ remember you are more important than any institution, so walk tall and don't be xeroxed! 
"May your dreams he bigger than any institutional curriculum. " And Pete Mahoney really means it. Stop in and talk to him sometime, and you'll find out. 
.Observer Notes_... 
Have you witnessed a crime that should be reported? Do you have newsworthy information . 
Desi)ln Editor Ryan ·Reformed' Ver Berkmoe• Dcsi~n Assistants Eileen Murphy. Jeane LaBoe Day/Ni)lht Tcchs Bruce Oakly. Bill FitzGerald News Editor Margie Brassil Copy Editor \.arnl 'How Bout Herself Mullane) Features Layout Jeane LaBoe ~orts Layout Beth Huffman I ypists Michei J:<..elleher Shawn McAuler Suzy 'Trooper' Sulentic Systems Tech Tim Debelius NU bay Editor Barb 'Giggles' Biehl Photog~apher Chris Spitzer Guest Appearances Marlin Perkins on pa~te one  
The Oburwr (USPS 598 ftO) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and ~lion periods. TH Obltner Is publlshtd by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing 1lt Ohe..,., P.O. Box 0, lfotre Dame, lndia~.a 46556. Second &lass postage paid, Notre DaiM, Indiana 46556. TIM Olluntr Is 1 member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved.  

~ 0~,0.~ you better. We're inviting you to ' ~ ~ i.._V ~ visit us at our new salon which we ·~7 ...•...~ hope will continue to be the campus 

~favorite as it has for the past 10 years. 
1 

Having one of the most contempo­rary salons for men and women in the Mid­west, we think the creative atmosphere of our new salon will bring out the best in an qlready talented and professional staff of hair designers. (Trainee hair­
cuts available at reduced prices by request.) 
Open 'til 9:00 Tues. and Thurs. 


micha~ ~o. 
hair concepts 
NORTH: 236 W. EDISON, MISHAWAKA 256-5600 (2112 miles east of campus) SOUTH: IRELAND AT IRONWOOD, SO. BEND 291-1001 

o s ow our appreciation for helping make this salon possible, present this ad before Nov. 1st and receive $2 0 FF. 
that might turn into an important article? Is there something we should be covering? Ifso, call The Observer news department and let us know. We welcome any and all contributions from our readers-call 283-7471, 8661, or 
1715,  24  hours  a  day,  Sunday  through  
Thursday.  All  sources  are  guaranteed  
confidentiality.  
The  Observer  is  always  looking  for  new  

reporters-experience is not nece!isary. Ifyou like to write, and are willing to contribute a couple of hours a week, our news department wants you. Ifinterested, come up to our offices (3rd floor LaFortune) any time between 12 and 1 p.m. during the week, and talk to one ofour news editors. They'll be glad to get you started. 
Available today at  
Michael 8c Company's  
-" ...Y  new hair design salon ­created for the "80's" to serve  

• 

L------------..,........---·--------~T;:r::uesa=-..:a&y,~ 30, 1980-·P'Pl 
U.S. to follow? 

South Africa energizes for future 

JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -A vast jungle of pipes, storage tanks and giant towers emerging from arid bush country means energy survival for South Africa-and a sam­ple of things to come in the United States. 
OPEC price increases and, more recently, fighting be­tween Iran and Iraq demon­strate how vulnerable indus­

john Hall returns to Notre Dame on Nov. 1 to join_ zvassar. trialized nations are to disrup­Clements and other artists for the Country Rock Festtval. tions in supplies of petroleum imports. Indeed, in Washington yes­terday, the House Government
,O>un~ Rock Festival 
Operations subcommittee warned in a report that the U.S. "faces the constant threat of a major supply disruption," be­


gets down in November 
By Detore Dalton 
The Country Rock Festival, 

new this year at Notre Dame, 
will be held Nov. 1 in Stepan 
Center. The one-day show is 
being sponsored by the 
Contemporary Arts Commission 
and is featuring entertainment 
from all over the country. 
The Festival will include John 

Hall, who opened for Poco_ in 
the recent Homecommg 
concert, where he was well­
received by ,ND students, 
according to Festival Director 
Mary Ahern. Hall, a former ND 
student, originally played with 
the band Orleans, where he 
wrote and sang lead on hit songs 
such as "Still the One" and 
"Dance With Me." 
Hall was also one ofthe major 

organizers of the MUSE (Musi­
cians United for Safe Energy) 
"No Nukes" concerts in Madison 
Square Garden last year, and 

two of his protest songs appear 
on the "No Nukes" album. 
Also performing at the 

Festival is Vassar Clements, one 
of the country's premier fiddle 
players, who has re~orded ~ith 
many major tourmg artists. 
Radio Flyer, a traditional 
country-bluegrass band from 
the Midwest, will also appear. · 
(*******~ ~ ~~a ~ ~0,.._ ~ * t-P~~v: 


t~~ : 
~ on ¢ 
~ C-C days * t Crinkle ~ 

'********i 
..--------~--~--·
need printing

tnahurrv? 
100-11x17 posters 
oniy$10.00 
203 N. Mc:iin 
n..~:r. South Bend 
289-6977 thewtz of the .prJntlng.biZI.~ ·. 

The well-known acoustic duo cause ofits high dependence on of Rich Prezioso and Kevin imported oil and a lack of Quigley also will return to energy emergency planning. 
Notre Dame for the Festival. But this is old news to South The two are former ND students Africa, which now has probably who made a name for themselves the most advanced synthetic 
fuel operation in the world. It'saround campus by virtue oftheir been producing "synfuels" forperformances at the Nazz, and the last 25 years.

they have been playing together Just this week, the state-con­for the past year. They will be trolled South African Coal, Oilmaking their debut with a back­and Gas Corp. -better knownup·band at the Festival. 
as SASOL -announced that aBill Lawler, Contemporary synthetic fuel plant usi~g i.ts

Arts commissioner, said that technology will be built tnthe Country Rock Festival is North Dakota. A consortium ofaimed at the music interests of American companies is to build "alot ofpeople" at Notre Dame. 
the coal-to-oil facility near low­The Festival replaces the sulphur coal fields in that state. 

Midwest Blues Festival,which The U.S. Congress passed was terminated after eight years legislation in June for a $20 due to lack of student interest. 

billion .progam to launch a The new Festival will run synthetic fuels industry. The from 4:30 p.m. to I a.m., and program's goal is to produce tickets will be $4. the equivalent of 500,000 
Rich Coppola, Student Union barrels of imported oil a day by director, commented that 19S7, or about 4 percent of because of anticipated student today's daily U.S. oil consump­interest, a lottery will be held on tion. Oct. 5. Coppola said that the SASOL officials expect their 
technology to be deeply in­idea for the Country Rock volved in the American pro­Festival came about as the gram. The Los Angeles-basedresult of the popularity of Fluor Corporation has ancountry rock on campus,and agreement to market SASOLthe student need for this type of know-how in America. 

music festival. 
Long befor~ the rest of the 
world discovered that cheap oil 
wasn't cheap anymore, South 
Africa had a problem. 
The most industrialized 
country in Africa, it had no oil 
deposits ofits own. It has lots of 
coal-an estimated 61 billion 
tons-and thus needs im­
ported oil for only a fourth ofits 
energy needs. But this oil goes 
for public and private transport 
and the economy would col-
lap)~ ;;H~.~~tfu:x:ill~:':·:·:?:·:-:-t 

l!G!~~~ ~ 
'''''""~'-'·'-''u;~
The white minority govern­
ment committed itself to a 
synthetic fuel industry justafter 
World War II and used some 
Nazi technology to start its first 
oil-from-coal plant, SASOL 1. 
By 1955, the plant, located 40 
miles south of here, was pro­
ducing gasoline and 20 other 
petroleum products. . 
The technique, developed m 
Germany during the war, uses 
steam and oxygen under in­
tense pressure to convert coal 
to carbon monoxide, carbon 
dioxide, hydrogen and meth­
ane. The gas is liquefied to 
produce a synthetic oil almost 
indistinguishable from natural 
crude. I The South African govern­'ment keeps a tight wrap around 
details of the process and how 
much it costs. It is assumed that 
production ofSASOL fuel costs 
far more than natural oil. But 
1 

South Africa is less concerned about cost than it is about getting fuel. . , · 
Iran was South Afnca s tra­
ditional petroleum supplier 
until the fall of the shah. The 
shah's father, when,he was in 
exile during World War II, was 
given refuge in SouthAfrica and 
close ties,were formed between 
the two countries. 
Howto st.....ch your


college do Iars. 
You don't have to be ·a math genius to figure it out. Basi~ money management and careful budgeting are two ve~y·effectlve v-;ays to keep from feeling the pinch when f!!Oney gets.tlght. And we II tell Q you how to do just that, and more, 1n our next 1ssue of "Insider," the free supplement to your college newspaper from Ford. 
We'll explain how to meet the high cost of tuition through scholarships and. student loans. We'll set up guidelines for developing ~our own personal finance system .. : hke custom tailoring a budget ... choosing and maintaining a checking account ... and obtaining and using credit wisely. And we'll 
offer tips on how~<""....~PJ. 
The revolutionary Iranian · 
government of Ayatollah1 Ruhollah Khomeini cut off oil sales to South Africa last year, joining other members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries which re­fuse to sell oil to the white minority government because of its race segregationpolicies. 
South Africa now buys oil on 
the spot market, where the cost 
can be twice as high as current 
OPEC prices. But South Africa, 
as the world's largest gold 
producer, has plenty of money 
to spend. In fact, it is under­
stood that the government al­
ready has 18 months of oil 
supplies stored in secret tank 
farms and unused underground 
mines. 
When OPEC sharply es­
calated oil prices in 1973, South 
Africa began constructing 
SASOL 2, a synthetic fuel plant 
occupying 1,850 acres that has 
10 times the capacity ofSASOL 
1. It has already begun pro­duction and will be operating at full capacity within two or three years. 
Last year, in light of the Iranian revolution, the launching of SASOL 3 -a carbon copy ofSASOL 2-was announced. It is being built alongside SASOL 2 and a workforce of 22,000 is on site. SASOL 3 should be operating by 1984. SASOL 2 and 3 are located near rich coal deposits 120 miles southeast of here. 
With all three synfuel plants in full production, SASOL is expected to provide between one-third and half of South Africa's daily consumption of imported oil, estimated at 270,000 barrels. 

At every gas station in South Africa, customers can fill up at the blue and white SASOL pumps alongside pumps of­
,[conh'nued on page 8) 

2(~ ~ 
stick to those budgets. With info on where to live, and how to get the best buys on food, entertainment, clothing, travel, textbooks, stereos, and more. Then we'll tell you how to be sure you're getting what you pay for. And how to complain wh~n you don t. 
Check it out. You'll find some great tips on how to stretch your college dollars. And who knows, you may even discover being frugal can be fun! 
Also be sure to check out Ford's exciting new 1981 
lineup, including Esc:m. The front-wh~el_drive car that's built to take on the world. With Escort you II fmd some great ways to multiply your fun. 
FORD 

Look for •lnsidcr•-Ford's continuing series of college 
FORD u:'JISION --~­
newspaper supplcm~:1ts. 


--------
-----~~---------------------------­
TheObserver 

. Robbery 
mented, "and that was a switch car chased)," Hedi commented.
[conh·nued from page ~ )/_ 
from the guy at the gate." "But this car was in good When the students returned The pair of students were condition." · 
to Fisher, they discovered a unable to positively identify Hedl said he spoke with the nametag that had been on anyone. driver, who told him that he was Stein's radio. The tag lay on the Two days later, however, simply looking for a friend met ground in the parking place Fisher resident John Larmann over the weekend at a party. where moments earlier, the glanced out his window while he The driver was a former 
University employee who
suspicious car sat. Stein then contacted 
worked at the Rock, according Security. The department sent ~'The investigator was to Hedl. Officer William Hedl to inves­
"He had a staff sticker on his
very cooperative ...
tigate the crime. Hedl obtained car, and we confiscated that 
students' descriptions of the since he no longer works here,"
a switch from 
the officer said. obtaining a positive identifica­the guy at the gate.' t The chased car, however, had tion, the officer then showed 
alleged suspects. With hopes of 
no staffsticker on it and was "in 
Fisher robbe_ry vz"ct/m is ~onsoled by friends. Story begins on 
mugshots to Dierna and Stein. poor, poor condition," ac­
was studying. He noticed a car page 1 and ts contznued at right. [photo by Chns Spitzer] 
"The investigator was very c9rding to Hedl's information
in the lot which resembled the 
cooperative," Stein com-obtained by questioning the
one chased by his hallmates 
Fisher residents. 

earlier. The student called 
Hedl also said the driver 
New computers at libraries
Security, who arrived quickly. 
stopped for questioning did not
Officers stopped a group of 
match the description of the
youths for questioning outside
• • • SMC plug into student's needs
thief given by Stein and com­
of Pangborn Hall. 

pany. At present, the officer is
"The car, a '7 3Buick Skylark,
[continued from page 1]1 
was very similar -of the same still working on the; case. by Kathy Owens contact a librarian in their re­should be left up to the stu­Hedl said Stein's door was spective library. The sessions
make, model and color (as the
dents,"Sweeney added. "We unlocked when the crime oc­Beginning Wednesday,: stu­cost about $15, depending on plan to make a recommenda­curred while Stein was "down dents researching a topic at one the complexity of the problemtion to the dean that student the hall visiting." Stein be­of Notre Dame's three libraries and the amount of computergovernment not be involved in lieves, however, that the theft can, for a fee, tie into a tom­time involved. During thethe fund drive at all next year." , , occurred while he stepped out


, Funds 
puter in California to discover month of October, however,
to the Bookstore, at which time
"The United Way fund drive additional sources. The ·local students will receive a $20 dis­has been an effort by the school [continued from page 1] · his door was locked. 
terminals, products of the count on each session so that
"My door was locked.
to work with the community. It 
$1500 for SMC), and the Hall 
Someone must have a pass Lockheed Corporation, are lo­many researchers can workis a better approach to work President's Council. 
key," Stein speculated. cated in the reference section of free-of-charge. This discount isthrough the students on an Phil. Vanderhoff, director' of Since the actual time of the the Memorial Library, th~ En­limited to two per student.
individual basis," Dineen ex­
the HPC, noted that the 
crime cannot be definitely gineering Library and in the ) oseph Disalvo of Lockheedplained. 
$18,000 he received will be determined, it remains unclear Chemistry-Physics Library. Information Services will pre­The United Way funds 35 budgeted among the halls for whether or not the student's Students using the computer sent a lecture on how to operate
local charities and organiza­permanent improvements.tions. "It has nothing to do with Vanderhoff pointed out that door was locked. Nevertheless, must first call the main base in the new system on Wednesday the funding ofabortion clinics. although most of the student Stein had his room lock California, where the phone morning at 10:30 a.m., in 242 
changed following the theft. O'Shaughnessy. He will also
That was a false rumor circu­will automatically log itself on­
organizations had to take 
Hedl said that students
lating around campus. Students budget cuts, the distribution to the system. The student can give an informal search dem­
should lock their doors "even if 
are also able to give to any one worked out well. "No groups then issue commands and re­onstration on Wednesday from
they just go take a shower." He
of those 35 organizations indi­received everything they ceive data. 1 to 3 p.m. in the data base
added that a majority ofcampus
vidually through the United wanted. Overall, however, I Students interested in a ses­office of Memorial Library,
thefts occur because unoc­
room 116.

Way," he added. think it was a fair allotment." sion with the computer should 
Advertised Item Polley 
tl thflf •d~trt•"d •ltml is rrqu~rtd to bt rudrlr lor ult •n uch Mro&fl stlrt tiCtpt " lptcrl• '" th•• •d II Wf do run out ol •• •d 
•ltm 
•t ••II olltr ••• rour cho•ct ol • com 

•lttn 
••••l.rblr •tfltctml( thr s~mr sntn&' 

•fuch 
••II tnt•flr •ou to purda.rsr thr •" 



•l•m 
,rt l~t ,d,.rtr\td ~"" ••lhrn 30 dO\'l' 


Coke .
Tab or Spn1e 
99¢ 

/ 
100% Pure Any Size Package 
Fresh Ground Beef 
l / lb.$148 
t 
Assorted Varieties 
Country Clu Ice Cream 

$1 19 

lhGal. Carton 
Assorted Varieties Jeno's Pizza 
11'% oz.-121h oz. Pkg. 
Springdale CoHage Cheese 
24 oz. Ctn. 
Family PriCW, 
mg.Vitamin C 1oo ct. 
Frozen Banquet Fried Chicken 
21b. Pkg. 
Blue Ribier Grapes 

lb. 

Creole Style Green Giant 

$119
$109 Salisbury Steak 
,9 oz. Pkg. 
Kroger Wheat Breads 

$119
$129 2 16 oz. Loaves 
Family Pride Dandruff Shampoo 

$100 $100
11 oz. Bohle 
Big Value Sandwich Cookies 

$279 99¢
24 oz. Pkg. 
Disposable Bic Lighters 

$100
2 count Pkg. 
138 Size Washington St.l 
Large Green Peppers
Golden Delicious Apples 
4 for $100 
19¢ Each 
Freshore Fish-N-Batter Fillets 
24 oz.


$239 

Pkg. 
A

Holly Farms hicken Breast with. Ribs 
$138 lb. 
v 

I I I 



TheObserver Tuesday, September 30, 1980 ·pile 5 
Mudslinging perhaps? 

Carter throws missiles at Reagan 

NEW YORK (AP)­President Carter suggested yes­terday that putting Ronald Reagan in the White House could lead to a "doomed nu­clear arms race" and threats of "ill-considered, unnecessary" military intervention around the world. 
Resuming his efforts to portray his Republican c~al­lenger as a warmongermg would-be president, Carter did not mention his opponent by name when he said the nation faces a "stark" choice this fall. 
He outlined the alternatives this way, in an address to business and labor supporters: 
"Will America continue to build military power and strong alliances in a steady and re­sponsible way-or will we throw away our wealth, security and world respect, and perhaps our peace, on a doomed nuclear arms race? 
"Will America keep laboring to strengthen the fragile bonds of peace among nations....,..-or will we threaten them and our own safety with ill-considered, unnecessary interventions a­round the world, as have been advocated repeatedly in ·the past few months?" 
The president was attacked sharply last week by his political rivals when he said the choice this fall is between war and peace. Press secretary Jody Powell conceded the president had overstated the case, but made it clear Carter would keep raising the issue. 
Earlier, in another attack on Reagan that avoided mention of the GOP nominee's name, Carter told a union audience that modern-day opponents of the Equal Rights Amendment are direct descendants of past "enemies" of women's suffrage and civil rights. 
Carter said the "new Republican leaders" say they want to leave women's rights to the states. "That's just what the enemies of women's suffrage said 70 years ago ... that is what the enemies of civil rights said 20 years ago -leave it to the states." 
Reagan, stressing that he favors equal rights for women, does not support the proposed ERA, which would write into the Constitution a ban on sexual discrimination. 
The president also hinted broadly that the United States would withdraw from the United Nations if Israel were expelled from the international organization. A Carter aide said the comment was prompted by discussions in the United Nations about a possible chal-

Observer announces mock election times and places The Observer announced yesterday the times and places bf the balloting for the mock election to be held this Thursday. The election will be held in LaFortune Student Center on the Notre Dame campus, and in LeMans Hall at Saint Mary's, from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. All graduate and undergraduate students are eligible to vote; they must present their student IDs in order to do so. The Observer ballot will reflect the selection presented on the Indiana state ballot. The official choices are as follows: 
US PRESIDENT 
(Democratic) Jimmy Carter-Walter Mondale Republican) Ronald Reagan-George Bush Independent) John Anderson-Patrick Lucey American) Percy Greaves-Frank Varnum Citizens) Barry Commoner-LaDonna Harris Communist) Gus Hall-Angela Davis 
(Libertarian) Edward Clark-David Koch 
(Socialist) Clifton DeBerry-Matilda Zimmerman 
US SENATE (Democratic) Birch Bayh (Republican) Danforth Quayle 
US HOUSE (Democratic) John Brademas (Republican) John Hiler 
INDIANA GOVERNOR (Democratic) John Hillenbrand (Republican) Robert Orr (American) Cletus Artist 
Results will be announced in Friday's Observer. 
Sf\llng formenana womenwho•eto lOOk their Best 277-0734 

·Important Meeting for all OBSERVER reporters 
6:30PM . Tuesday night office 

lenge to Israel's credentials stemming from Israel's decision to declare an undivided Jerusalem as its capital. 
"We will not permit it," said the Carter aid of the expulsion threat. Such a move, he said, "would raise the gravest questions about the future of the General Assembly and further participation of the United States and other nations in the deliberations of that body." 
1 The president's double-b;u­reled attack at Reagan came during a four-hour campaign visit to New York, his first since he won the Democratic Party's nomination in August. 

Chips Gums Candy Meat Sticks 
Pastries Peanuts 
' 

Available at yourHall·sfood sol 
.TYPIST WANTED 
Excellent Opportunity for pre-law undergraduate to gain feel of law school. Flexible 10-15 hour work week required. Call 277-8895 between 6 and 7 
p.m. Journal of Legislation 
Your career Is about to take off. The excite­ment of moving on Into your profession grows larger day by day. We wish each graduating student much success l.n the years to come. 
We have had our share of success as well. Our company Is known throughout the world as the foremost designer and producer of aircraft landing gear systems. Since the 1920's we have been called on to develop the landing gear systems used by virtually all types of aircraft-from blimps to experi­mental high-performance airplanes. Alght now we're supplying systems for the Boeing 747, the upcoming 767, the DC-10 and F-18, to name a few. 
We are going to be Interviewing seniors Interested In the following areas: 
• 
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING 

• 
INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING 

• 
AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING 

• 
DESIGN/STRESS ENGINEERING 

• 
METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING 


Those of you who Interview with us will discover a company of 2,000 people strong, committed to product leadership and a first­class engineering effort. 
Learn more about us and the opportunity you'll have to give your career a flying start. Arrange an Interview when we visit: 
September 25th I 21th 
If you can't meet with us then, please write our Placement Office, and we'll try to make other arrangements. CLEVELAND PNEUMATIC, 3781 East 77th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105 An Equal Opportunity Employer. 

( 
-------------------~---·----~-------~-­
Tuesday, September 30, 1980 -page 6







Editorials 
P.O.BoxQ 

United Way 
proceeds defended 
Dear Editor, 
We the undersigned members of the faculty in Mathematics at Saint Mary's Colle~e wish to express our disappomtment in the action taken by gur student leaders with regard to the United Way campai~n. As residents of the Michiana area over a considerable length of time we are well aware of the human needs which are met by the funds collected at this time. 
We urge the board of go­ve.rnance to reconsider its ac­tion and restudy the conse­quences of their decision. They may wish to discriminate among the organizations and ~roups which will benefit. But 10 the name of Christ, we ask you to realize that it will be the poor, the aged, the handi­capped, the unemployed and our already disadvantaged brothers and sisters in our own neighborhoods of South Bend who are being so rejected. 
Sister Miriam P. Cooney, CSC Charles F. Peltier Donald E. Miller Mary V. Connolly DonS. Balka Peter D. Smith Sister Mary Turgi, CSC Mary G. Peltier 

Discriminatory quiet hours 
in Morrissey 
Dear Editor, 

This morning at 12:30 I went to Morrissey Hall to play the piano for a short while. There was a sisn attached to the piano which said that quiet hours were from 7-11 Monday through Thursday ni~hts arid to please respect this rule. Since it was obviously past 
11:00 p.m. and there was a stereo blaring in the hall next to the I assumed that 

IXx>nesbury 

no one would mind if I quietly It was insightful and interesting; Out of four students interviewed, 
played/a song or two. however, a couple of misconcep­two stressed the fact that they had 
My reason for playing the tions need correction/explanation. not thought of applying for piano at Morrissey, instead of In any case, I eagerly devoured admission to Notre Dame until a Lyons, was because there are each word and now I am starving couple of chance occurrences. 
Both were at the right place at the 

for more articles on Hispanics.
several notes on the Lyons right time when they heard ofN.D.,
piano that do not work. I also I saw two major misconceptions. 
but this luck implies that the barrio knew that the lounges in all The first one incorrectly identifies is too closed to welcome helpfuldorms are presumably 24-hour, Mexican-Americans as the United academic influences. 

co-ed lounges (even at St. States' future second-largest Perhaps more people should beMary's)./ However, the rector minority. By the year 2000, interviewed in future studies toof Mor.i-issey .felt differently. Hispanics (including Puerto expose the real community spirit He advised me to leave the hall Ricans, Cubans, Spaniards, behind any barrio/community;immediately. I obliged him but Haitians, and diverse Latin each has its own goals and accomp­left the hall feeling rather American groups) will become the lishments. The approximately four!-'nfulfilled. Playing the piano largest minority in the U.S.­
percent of the Mexican-Americans Is a release from the tensions maybe sooner. Nationwide, there who expressed their opinions reflect of studying for me, just like are now approximately 9 percent too few views. Moreover, the back­running or playing basketball -Hispanics versus 12 percent for 

grounds of those who are inter­may be a release for other blacks. viewed in the future on a large scale peoJ?le. should be as diverse as LeDuc's
The predominant Hispanic group 
It s too bad that certain article was on a small scale.
is, and will remain, the 7.2-8 million
administrators have to add to I also think that a Mexican­
Mexican-Americans. Witness Los 
the tensions of the academic American community should be
Angeles where the Chicano 
pressure at Notre Dame. My equated with different socio­
population surpassed the black
I!Dpression was that they were economic levels which might be
population as the city's largest
here to help ease this tension-· overlooked by the average
minority circa 1970. San Antonio, 
not to prom~te its growth. American.
Texas currently boasts an almost 
Those who are unacquainted

fifty percent Mexican-American 
with barrios per se may be misled
S. Wtley 

population. In addition, metro­
into excluding middle-class barrios 

politan cities throughout the 
(such as mine in Amarillo, Texas). 

continental US -especially the 
Many Mexican-American com­Student applauds Southwest -exhibit hefty numbers munities presently suffer, sad to
of Chicanos. 
say, from many social ills; however,

The second major misconception, 
a gradual, slowly emerging middle Hispanic article in my opinion, concerns the manner class will probably be better able to 

in which the word barrio was 
help nurse many of these current

handled. I liked the manner in
Dear Editor, problems.Thank you Observer and Dan which barrio was seen as a One example of the community 
LeDuc for the September 24 article community, but I was surprised to spirit is an organization called the ''Cultural Diversity Develops." see the dominant portrayal, i.e., 
League of Latin American Citizens Ya era tiempo! (It was about time!) "poor and closed." 


Ra:ndom Thoughts on Chval Mark Mahan 
Random Thoughts while savoring Thursday's keep your own opinions. Nobody else wants to Chval "article." hear them. Not too long ago Craig Chval was dispara~ed 
In past years there were frequent rumblings for his lack of class in his column about Mike that The Observer would like to rid itself ofWhite, football coach at Illinois. Now it seems perennial (5 years I believe), boring, "rah-rah"he has upheld that distinction. There is no Frank LaGrotta. If Sports Editor Beth M.

quarrel here with Chval's grammar, or the ~uffman were worth her weight, she wouldlen~th of his articles, or the dedication he give Chval the heave-ho instead. Chval isexhibits while criticizing others. But just ~aking a m?ckery out of the sp<?rts personali­because he's one of The Observer's least-liked ties ~hat give h1s worthless htde life anyreporters doesn't mean he has to have an 
meanmg.

article to match. 
If you don't like the rules of the game, Craig,Even worse, he was not satisfied with take your pen and your press pass and goslandering a respected Big Ten football mentor. 

home. Nobody will miss you.

This week his literary wit(?) was directed against the Notre Dame Marching Band, .MarkJ Mahan is a senior chemistry major Wayne Duke, the NCAA, and even Bob Crable. from Grace Hall. He was inspired to write this 
parody of Craig Chval's "Afterthoughts"

Now that's incredible. 
article by the consternation previous .Chval As far as I'm concerned, Cr~ig C., you can articles have caused him. 
by Garry Trudeau 
OAMN!
AL50,A YFAH, 8(JTIF
'THEY'VE
tAJ4CK'I H/3 8/..()()JS
6(JTMe
SII{TAiJ n; Y(J}'tL.
FOtL.Otu­
Ff?CAK, /.fX}/(
IN6THe 
(j(}Q/J.
SlRJEON! 

(LULAC) based in San Antonio. Another example is the nationwide organization of the GI Forum, which started Hispanic groups within cities in collaboration with the World War II Hispanic veterans. 
We are something of a minor "miracle". We enrich whatever it means to be an "American". 
Michael Diaz 
Main quad defaced by thermometer 
Dear Editor, 

I would like to suggest to the Notre Dame community that its mem~ers join me in refusing to contnbute to the United Way Drive until the thermometer billbo~rd that yulgarizes our beauuful Main Quad is removed. 
Thomas Stritch Professor Emeritus American Studies 
Coach Hunter continues to offend soccer fan 
Dear Editor, 

I address this letter to the supposedly "new" Rich Hun­ter, varsity soccer coach. I thought that "new" was meant to be complimentary--a more controlled and composed Rich Hunter. As a student, I've been to several soccer games this season and the behavior of Coach Hunter leaves much to be desired. Yelling at the refs, yelling at the players, yelling obscenities and even kicking things is behavior that has not been unnoticed or unheard by_ others in the stands besides myself. Do you, Coach Hun­ter, think that this behavior: 
Encourages team spirit and unity? 
Is a fitting example of col­lege level coaching for the numerous students, adults and CHILDREN sitting in the stands? 
Exemplifies the Notre Dame spirit associated with spons? 
Fans pay money to see two college soccer teams play; most of them hoping that this year ND will make it to the NCAA's. 
I think fans, as well as the team, need a coach that they can be proud of and up until now I haven't seen anything in your sideline behavior to be proud of. During the Xavier game, I, along with others, heard you yell at one ref, ''This isn't fifth grade soccer. ' ' Your words couldn't be more true Coach Hunter... this is college soccer so why don't you grow up and show some restraint? 
Editorial Board and Department Manager:s 

Editor-rn-Chzef ............ Paul Mullaney S.\fC Nrws Editor ........... Mary Leavitt 

Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman 
Managing Editor .............. Mark Rusr

r:he qbserver is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Editonals Editor .... __ ..... Mike Onufrak Ft?.Jtures Editor ............ Molly Woulfe
Umversny of~<?tre Dame du ~~and. Saint ~ary'~ C<?llese. It does nor necessarily 
Senior Copy Editor ......... Lynne Daley Photo Editor .................. John Macor
reflect the pohe~es of th~ a~mmtstrauon .of etthe~ m~utunon. The news is reponed 
Neu·s Editor .................. Pam Degnan

as ~c~uratdy and .as «;>bJectlvely as posstble_. Edtt~n~ls represent the opinion of a 
Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges 
News Editor . . . . . . . . . . Tom Jackman of thetr authors.. Column s~ace i~ a:vailable to all members of the community, and ProdJtctzo" Mmtager:.. .. John .McGrath the free expression of varymg optmons on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC £-.:ec'iiiii·e Editor .. ~fargie Brassil ma1or~ty of the Edttonal Board. Commentanes, optmons, and letters are the views 

-



Features 
Tuesday, September 30, 1988 page 7 


Nuclear Chic 


Obviously, neither .Keagan nor Carter are going to be of any help in our approaching Armageddon. They are stmply proving that, if nuclear warfare is to important to leave to the generals, it is also too important to leave to the politicians ... especially during a political campaign. 
Mr. Reagan's vision of compli­cated and delicate foreign policy questions is worthy of any pre­adolescent: "You gotta be the toughest kid on the block and you get that way through military muscle that will show those Russkies and Third World nuisances who's boss." 
Carter is no better, just slightly more subtle. Not to be outdone by Rea~an, Jimmy Carter has issued Prestdenual Directive 59 which ac­cepts the premise that nuclear warfare is not only thinkable but even winnable.' 
Carter's policy now targets our nuclear weapons not on Russian cities but on nuclear launch pads and political center. This, of course, assumes that a nuclear war can be fought, that the unwinnable is winnable. Carter's new policy tends to make war more efficient, not less probable. It is to reinforce the idea that immoral weapons can be used to fight a so-called just war. It deviously implies that nuclear war is conceivable Next, nuclear war will be considered a conventional stragegx, almost fashionable. We then wdl have entered the final stage of cataclysmic insanity--NUCLEAR CHIC. 
The nuclear Theatre of the Absurd offered one of its more bizarre scenes last week when we saw Air 
Force rescue workers searching in 
the woods of Arkansas for a lost 
Arkansas for a lost nuclear warhead, 
which was subsequently transported 
down an Interstate hi~hway during 
morning rush hour m a canister 
marked "Do Not Drop!" 
Unfartunately, countless'American Christians remain undisturbed by our current madness. It would be hard to think of a place where support for nuclear armaments is more entrenched, insidious, or de­termined than in U.S. churches. So few seem aware of the fact that we have lost touch with reality. We can kill everybody in the world twelve times; so we want to increase that killing capacity to perhaps fifteen or sixteen times. The sheer insanity of our position is revealed in a single proposition: The more weapons we build, the less secure we are and the more precarious our position, be­cause our enemies have built more also; therefore we will build even more weapons. So few Catholics seem distressed that, as Pope ] ohn Paul warned during his vistt to the U.S., we are paying a price for our madness by handing on to our children, for their inheritance, the machinery of death. 
As we move toward nuclear devas­tation, we are forced to recognize that another devastation is already upon us. One need only look at the condition of our cities, our continued racism, the neglect of our minorities and at the massive unemployment and inflation caused in part by wasteful military spending which affects all sectors of American society. Reagan quotes FOR and Carter quotes Truman. They would both do well to quote Eisenhower: "Every gun that is made, every rocket fired, every warship launched signifies, in the final sense, a theft from those who hunger and are not fed, from those who are cold and are not clothed ' ' 
Why do so few Christians speak out against there horrors aWhy do so few Catholics (and, most scandal­ously, so few priests) protest our current madness? There are, thank God, some who stand against our current jingoistic insanity. One is Fr. George Zabelka, who was the Catholic chaplain to the Hiroshima and Nagasaki bomb squadrons. 
Fr. Zabelka recently spoke about his own complicity in the mass destruction of civilians: "I was chaplain to those Catholics who dropped the A-bomb on top of the largest and first Catholic city in ] apan. One would have thought that 11, as a Catholic priest, would have spoken out against the atomic bomb­ing of nuns. (Three orders of Catholic sisters were destroyed in Nagasaki that dayJ One would have thought that I would have suggested that as a minimal standard of Catholic morality, Catholics shouldn't bomb Catholic children. I didn't. 
"I, like the Clltholic pilot of the Nagasaki plane, was heir to a Christianity that had for seventeen hundred years engaged in revenge, torture, the pursuit of power, and prerogative v10lence, allm the name of the Lord. I walked through the ruins of Nagasaki r~ght after the war 
Fr. Bill Toohey 
and visited the place where once 
stood the Urakami Cathedral. I 
picked up a piece of liturgical censer 
from the rubble. When I look at it 
today I pray God forgives us for how· 
we have dtstorted Christ's teaching 
and destroyed his world by the 
distortion of that teaching.'' 
"I was the Catholic chaplain who was there when thi~ grotesqueprocess that began with\Constantlne reached its lowest point so far. For the first three centuries, the church was a pacifist" church. With Con­stantine, the church accepted the pagan Roman ethic of a just war and slowly began to involve its member­ship 10 mass slaughter, ftrst for the state and later for the faith. The churches came to agree that ] esus' clear and unambiguous teathmg on the rejection of violence should itself be rejected. And so each of the m~jor branches of Christianity by different theological methods 'modt­fied our Lord's teaching in these matters until they were able to do what ] esus explicitly rejected, that is, take and eye for an eye, slaughter, maim, torture." 
"So, as I see it, until the various churches repent and begin to pro­claim by word and deed what ] esus proclaimed in relation to violence and enemies, there is no hope for anything other than ever-excalating violence and destruction." 
Anyone who shares Fr. Zabelka's concern about survival is invited to attend Notre Dame's Nuclear Dis­armament Conference, to be held on campus this coming weekend, fea­turing the courageous Bishop Gum­bleton, President of Pax Chrtsti. 


He Who Gets Slapped; a gooddiversion 
ND/SMC Theatre's first produc­tion of the season: He Who Get's Slapped provides a solid foundation for what will hopefully be an exciting season of locally-produced theatre. 
The play was penned by Leonid Andreyev in the early part of the century. Andreyev was on of Rus­sia's last playwrites of any note before the current wave of commu­nism. Presented for the audience is a tale revolving around the old theme of coping with reality. 
The setting is a circus populated with a close-knit menagerie of life's escapies. Entering into their close knit world is the title character "He". Fleeing from the real world and it's assorted injustices, He proceeds to shake up the usual chaos of the circus with youthlike enthusi­asm for his new job. What follows is a mixed bag of human interaction, including a clashing of egos, the exposing of hidden personality tralts, and yes, an ill fated romance 
involving He and the troops darling! hijinks provide no amuse­balerina Consuelo. ment, and on a few occassions pick up an otherwise dull scene. 
Cast in the lead as He is ] ohn The set is one of those creations 
Davenport. His performance carries that so typifies modern drama. It along the entire production, since consists of a step ladder, a couple of the audience cannot help being boxes, and a stool on an otherwise caught up by his high energy spirits. spartan ,' stage. Certainly not the Davenport properly captures He's most inspired of efforts, or the most 
slightly obnoxious naitivity, because interesting. The costumes fortunately one is left with the urge to slap him. do not mirror the same Spartanr\driana Trigiani is also right on the effort. Diana Hawfield has mark with her rendition of the 
done a good job of providing justwhiskey-swilling, Mama Briq_uet. 

the right amount of pofychromaticBriquet is the by now oft-copted, dashes, to provide for a circusliikecrusty-yet-warm-hearted circus di­feel. The lighting 1s at bestrector. Everyone's darlilng Consuelo adeqoete. Several times the shiftsis cutely portrayed by Eileen Durkin, are choppy and intel)'Uptthe smoothwho adds just the right amount of flow of the production. 

coquettishness to the part. Her Director Reginald F. Bain' s effortsupwardly mobile mother, the schem­are not the superlative one's thating Countess Mancini is slickly could be expected from on of hisportrayed by Susan Groeschel. also background. John Davenport atreceivmg kudos are Tim Grothaus as times seems afone on stage with his Consuela's ballet partner, Rachael exhuberaru:e, mostly due to Bain'sPatterson as the troubled lion tamer-Madame Zinida, and ] effery Mous­sea as a clown finding himself eclipsed by He. 

A key role is that of the baron, a wealthy fellow who has been en­gaged to Consuelo. Joe O'Brien is adequate but not entirely satisfying since at times he strains a bit much to be evil. The true scene stealers are Regina Pratt, Mary Link, and Kathleen Maccio, as three musical clowns whose constant cavorting and 
end of 

Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
failure to set an overall tone for the cast. At other times, minor charac­ters imaginative yet unnecessary antics distract the audience from the central scene. 
The musical score emotes the proper feelilng of the gayety of a circus, with a certain haunting nature reminiscient of inner turmoil. 
As one arrives at O'Laughlin, the playgoer is offered a mask by attentive ushers. Unfortunately the noble effort that went into making six hundred of the buggers, was lar~ely lost. The idea of having the enure audience viewing the produc­tion from behind masks probably sounded pretty neat at the produc­tion meeun~s, but lost something in the trans!auon to your average self conscious, reluctant theatre goer. Mostly, people carried them around with a rather befuddled look on their faces. 
Overall, He Who Get's Slapped is put together at a level that is acceptable. By now, Andreyev's story . is a little well-worn, but it's message stsill is applicable today. The chance to see live theatre is a good diversion to the usual activities around the area. This particular production is highlighted by 1everal mspired performances that more than make up for it's shortcomings. 

I .._ I 
--------. 
~ 


Thec<lbsenrei;

-

Tt 
. Campus 
6:30 
p.m.-meeting, all observer reporters, observer office. 

6: 30 p.m.-meeting, smc 1 german club, mccandles~ piano room, all nd/smc students welcome. 

6:30 
p.m.-meeting, inter­national student's organiza­tion, iso lounge, Iafortune basement. 


7 p.m.-computer mini course, "intro to graphics," I 0 ccmb, call 2811. 
8 p.m.-lecture, "an amateur among the pros," george plimpton, sports writer, mcm. library aud, sponsored by suac. 
SMCGerman club organizes 
The Saint Mary's Gerrnar 
Club will hold an organiir.ationai meeting Tuesday at 6:30p.m. in McCandless Hall Piano Room. lo"W'Jd students from both NO an SMC are invited to attend. 


, , , Focus 
[continued from page 3) 
fering regular fuel from im­ported oil. The price is the same-the equivalent of$2.77 a gallon. The government sub­sidizes the SASOL product. 
SASOL is now so much a part of the motoring scene in South Africa that customers usually just fill up at whatever pump happens to be available. Vehide performance is the same. 
While authorities jealously guard exact figures, it is known that SASOL plants are also providing jet fuel, diesel oil and a wide range ofwhat is known as "stockfeed" -raw materials for the plastics and fertilizer industries here. 
SASOL is considered to be a decade ahead ofanybody else in the sythctic fuel field. 
"Of the first $100 million ;tllocatcd hv the U.S. Department -of Energy for design work t\n synfuel pro­jects," said S:\SOL chairman David de Villiers last week, ''$60 million will go to projects with which SASOL is involved, <'itheras consultantor potential licensor." 

d


4:)z==~~===================T=u=~==y='=~==~==~==30='=1=9~==-=~==e=8= 
Molarity 



Peanuts® 

-

-

ACROSS 29 Censurable 1 Metropoli· carryings.



The Daily Crossword 
tan star on 5 Ancient 33 Booboo 


chariot 34 Variety 10 Support 35 Back talk 14 False 36 Songbird 
conception from Down 15 Calculus Under 16 Opera 40 Time past 17 Breakfast 41 Appear 
treat 42 Different 
19 X marks it 43 Sent in a 20 Met newdirec· 21 Boutique tion 22 Fur-bearing 46 Chemical 
swimmers compounds 24 Ladder rung 47 Telegram 25 "ldrewmy word 
snicker-" 48 Odious 26 Certain 49 Partof transport the foot 
Monday's Results 

© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 


Michael .Molinelli 
EVER WCWDER LJUO 
GET5 ALL 1liOSE FREE PRIZES FR011 ALL Tl-/05£ BQX£5 CF C. ERE4L 

IF L(OU EVER NEED A ''CON6RUE~T TO II I CAN WHIP ONE OVT 
IN NOTI41NG FLAT! 

52 Oldtlme 24 Type of gin Venetian 25 Curtain magistrate cloth 
53 Naughty 26 Aromatic 56 Garden loam wood 57 Dessert 27 Storm: Fr. 60 Manlike 28 Knight wear 61 Brilliance 29 Repaired 62 Metal shoes 63 "Toots" 30 "-read of 64 Deadly any book" 
contests 31 Volume of 65 Is in debt records 32 Skirmishes 
DOWN 34 Slumber 1 Decreases 37 Barred 2 Brainstorm bylaw 3 Electrical 38 Adherent 
unit of Islam 4 Clerical 39 Diminutive 
garment suffix 5 TV Rolle 44 Stable 6 Small attendant: 
veranda var. 7 Bather's 45 Shoshonean need 46 Racing 8 Navyman: crews abbr. 48 Concerning 9 Causeto the voice explode 49 Doctrines 
10 Fastened 50 A Webster with adhe­51 Grain place sive 52 River 
11 Readyfor valley 
picking 53 Knock 12 Aroma 54 Qualified 13 Strokes 55 Papas 
gently 58 Oldtime 18 To the rear French coin 23 Sawbuck 59 Self 

ND 1980 UNITED WAY STUDENT DRIVE 
Participation Chart 
100 percent . 90 percent .. 80 percent .... 70 percent .. 60 percent .. 50 percent .40 percent .. 30 percent .... 20 percent .... 10 percent ..... 0 percent 

CD '0 c .. .. c
c c g c l 4i 4i (J .. 0 c ~ c s; .5 '!! 
e ii ~ ~ g ~ c c 0 0 i5 c 0 . 0
, £ i5 0 0 .2 ~ iS u 0 J: ! !; ~ i .. ~ 'E 0
~ f u c ~ ~ :r i 0 ~ 
0 ~ ;;
c 0 0 
~ :r "" ~ ... ;;;
I u
iii 

uwe're all in this together!"
' 


The ObserVer 
-------c---------------------­
Tuesday, September 30, 1980 -pqe 9 

Ali chides Holmes ~th· rhyme,_ comments 
LAS VEGAS, Nev. (AP)­doesn't have the kind of He failed to regain the title Muhammad Ali called Larrr, motivation needed to win. when he was knocked down and Holmes "a plaything to me ' While trying to win the title outpointed by joe Frazier on and chided the heavyweight for a fourth time is a big March 8, 1971. But he g~t it champion for sleeping through challenge-"that's the only back Oct. 30, 1974, when he a news conference Monday. reason I'm coming back," says knocked out Goorge Foreman 
"He's a little boy," Ali said Ali. It's not considered by Ali to in the eighth round at Kinshasa, during an interview in his hotel be one of the major challenges Zaire. suite. "I'm not the least bit of his career. He lost it again when he was worried about Holmes." "When l first announced that outpointed by Leon Spinks and 
Ali will try to become heavy­I was a Black Muslim (after he then regained the World weight champion for a fourth beat Sonny Liston for his first Boxing Association part of the time Thursday night when he title in 1964), that was the title by outpointing Spinks in fights Holmes at Caesar's greatest challenge. That took his last fight Sept. 15, 197R Palace for the World Boxing more guts then whipping 50 The WBC withdrew title Council title. · Holmes." i recognition from Spinks and 
recognized Norton after Spinks 
"I'll be the athlete with a Ali ranked as his second signed for the Ali rematch record that'll never be broken," greatest challenge "not takin' rather than defend against Ken said the 38-year-old Ali. "They the step." 1 Norton. In Norton's first de­say, 'Records are mad_e to be On April28, 1967, Ali refused fense, he lost the title to broken.' They say, 'They never to take ~he traditional step Holmes June 9, 1978. come back.' I stopped that forward a~ the ceremony for "Holmes is too old, really.saying.'' induction! into the Army. He Thirty-one (Holmes will be 31 
Ali was fairly subdued when was convicted ofdraft evasion, a Nov. 31) is too hold for a he made a briefappearance at a conviction that later was over-heavyweight, for a big man," press luncheon. But he did 
turned by the U.S. Supreme said Ali. 

chide Holmes and, of course, <tourt, and banished from But you're 38, Ali was re-offer a rhyme. 
boxing, not to return until minded. ' 

"I made him," Ali said of his 1970. "I'm not hum~~,'' replied Ali. 
one-time sparring partner. "Then he got so big, so proud, that he didn't show up. 
The One and Only
I .

"His behind shall be mine by 

Sheila Cronin won the fourth singles competition for Notre Dame in yesterday's tournament. [Photo by John Macorl. 
• • .Patriots 
[continued from page 12] 
Smith added his final field goal, a 36-yarder, late in the game. 
The other key pass inter­ference call against Denver came early in the second quarter during a 66-yard drive by the Patriots capped by Vagas Ferguson's 2-yard run that put them ahead 10-7. 
Armstrong, filling in for the injured Dave Preston, led all rushers with 80 yards. Ferguson, a rookie from Notre Dame, gained 69 yards in ad­dition to his first NFL touch­down. 
A patriot error set up Armstrong's s touchdown with 
11:24 to play in the third period, giving the Broncos a temporary lead. 
Ferguson was stopped for no gain and fumbled, and nose­guard Rubin Carter recovered at the Patriots 3 7. 
Armstrong ran twice for4 and 
2 yards before Robinson 
hooked up with Moses on a 
third-down play on a 23-yard 
pass that took the ball to the 8. 
After : an incomplete pass, 
Armstrong charged through 
several Patriots ad barged 
across for a score. 
But New England struck 
right back, driving 78 yards in 
seven plays after the. ensuing 
kickoff to take the lead for 
good. 
Grogan threw 8 yards to Don Calhoun and Ferguson carried 4 yards for a first down at his own 
34. A pass to Calhoun lost 3 yards and after an incomple­tion, Grogan came through on a third-down play with a 17-yard strike to Morgan to the New England 48 . 
.After Calhoun ran 7 yards, Morgan dashed behind corner­back Steve Foley and grabbed Grogan's ninth TD pass of the 
season. 

round nine." Ali said Holmes won't be able

Irish! 
to handle the pressure of the moment and that the champion 

: Tony•s Shoe ~~~P.,wn,own 

Easy to· find  1  ·  
lll.West Jefferson  ~  ltr  
~  
Open 6 days a week  ~  
i 8-5 We sell boots and mocauins 




1!!!1 




AIR FORCE ROTC­

HERE ARE THE FACTS 
When you're discussing something as Important as your future, it's urgent that you get the straight facts ...and that you understand them. Air Force ROTC can be an important part of your future. We would like to outline some of the facts and invite you to look into gathering more. 
It's a fact: the Air Force needs highly-qualified, dedicated officers ...men and women. It's a fact: we need people In all kinds of educational disciplines. It's a fact: we're prepared to offer financial help to those who can qualify for an Air Force ROTC scholarship. 
Get together with an AFROTC representative and discuss the program. We11 !give you all the facts. It could be one of the most important talks you've ever had with anyone about your ooucat1<1nal plans. 
Contact Capt. Gotttich for additional info 
l 
I 
1 
l ~ ~ 


TheObserver 
8-5 MON.-SAT :;! 19-283-4395 EVENINGS BY APPT. 

UNIVERSITY HAIR STYLISTS 
FULL SERVICE UNISEX CENTER HAIR CUTTING SPECIALISTS 
BADIN HALL NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 46556 
Student Legal Se-Wices BASEMENT NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL ------1 
LEGAL AID AND DEFENDENT ASS,N RoomB-12_ 283-7795 9-4:30 

....,...---othertimes by appointment--~ 
Tuesday, September 30, 1980 -page io 
.It's Yogi 

Legend in pinstripes 

CLEVELAND -He is known to his parents 10d the IRS as Lawrence Peter Berra Sr. 
But to those who know the man and to nillions of baseball fans both past and present, ae is known simply as "Yogi." 
Babe ... Arnie... Pele. 
Few people in the sports world have achieved the notoriety to be so easily recognized by a single name. But to talk about "Yogi Berra" seems redundant-"Yogi'' is fine. . 
Nicknamed Yogi by his boyhood pals (a "yogi" was considered an odd character on the Hill, the heavily-populated Italian section of St. Louis where Berra grew up), the name has since become almost synonymous with New York, the city he has played for, coached for, managed for, lived for and would probably die for. The pinstripes never look quite right until one sees them on Yogi, probably because he has been the model for so many great Yankee dynasties. 
Yet the name Yogi still brings a grin to many faces, for the man has a paradoxical­
11-._~,....,..,...,..,...,.~,.,.....~.........,_,.,. _._...,_,. _._ albeit philosophical-grasp of the English 


BOSTON CLUB 
CTOBER BREAK BUS 
Wed. Oct. 1 7-9 pm LaFortune lobby 
$100 round-trip ($50 deposit required) 
call Jim at 1528 
, 

AdvancernentDaes
i 
Not Require An
I' 
I I 


Advanced Degree
I I 
You can spend another two to three years 1n graduate
I 
school or you can turn four years of liberal arts education into 
I 
a practical, chaJienging and rewarding career in just three months-as an Employee Benefit Specialist. 
Benefits today amount from 30 to 35 percent of wages and salaries. Recent pension legislation has created even more demand for trained specialists. As an Employee Benefit Specialist you'll be called upon to excercise your own judgement, initiative and intelligence in a challenging, professional environment with progressive responsibility. 
The Institute for Employee Benefits Training is the first and most prestigious school in the United States, training Employee Benefits and Pension Specialists. This is a dynamic, growing career field in which advancement does not require an advanced degree. Our graduates are in demand by law firms, pension consulting firms, insurance companies, banks, and personnel and benefits departments of corporations. The Institute's Placement Service will place you too. If not, you will be.eligible for a substantial tuition refund. 
Furthermore, you will earn graduate credit towards a Master of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law for all course work completed at The Institute. 
Ifyou're a senior of high academic standing and looking for a meaningful career, contact your Placement Office for our catalog and arrange to have an interview with our repre­sentative. 
We will visit your campus on: Wednesday. October 15 
The 

Institute 
2-;!5 South 17th Street Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 
for 

(215) 732-6600
Employee Benefits Training 

(Operated by Para-lege! ! 
Approved by The American Bar Association Pro:., .c;ms Earn Full Credit Toward M.A. in Legal Studies thrOl..gh Antioch Schocl of La~. . . ·~····· ,. AC~35 


\ \ 
language rivalled by none. Such statements as 
"It gets late early around here," "No one goes 
there anymore-it's too crowded" and ""90 
percent of baseball is 50 percent mental" have 
made him simultaneously a legend and a puzzle ·in everyone's mind but his own. 
But behind the grizzled facade and the pin­
stripes lies a man who has devoted two-thirds of 
his life, some 34 years, to professional baseball. 
"I've been in professional baseball since I was 
17 years old," recalled Yogi as he seemingly sized 
up my age. "I played until I felt I was too old, and 
then I dev.oted my efforts to coaching." 
Yogi BeTTa 

Originally called up by the Yankees in 1946, Yogi stuck with the big club in 1947 and compiled 
a .285 batting average while hammering 358 home runs in 18-plus seasons with the Bronx Bombers. The then 38-year old catcher became a player-coach in 1963 and finally hung up his playing spikes at the end of that year. 
He became manager in 1964, guiding the Yanks to a 99-63 record but losing the World Series to the Cardinals in a full seven games. 
Released by the Yankees after that year, Yogi jumped across leagues and across Big ,Apple boroughs to setup stakes in the Mets organization. A coach there from 1965-71, Yogi held the managerial reins from 1972-75, guiding the 1973 Mets to the World Series, where he again lost in seven games to the Finley-full OaKland A's. 
Back with the Yankees as a coach from 1976 till the present, Yogi's 5-foot-8, 191-poundframe seems dwarfed by the likes of Reggie Jackson, Bob Watson, and Lou Piniella. But whether sitting in the {hgout, his stubby hands gripping the bench on either side, or standing on thesteps of the dugout positioning outfielders while working on the ever-preser:. ·...hav/' in his mouth, Yogi is still a giant. 
Although joking with the players in between innings, Yogi studies the game as it unfolds befor~ him. Itis ironic thata maRwho has taught So many_ ~he ·art· of bas~ball is hi!Dself~~ill ~­

Bill Marquard 

student of the game. Yogi acknowledges little change in the game during the past three and one-half decades. 
"The biggest difference between my first years and now is that we have more teams to play against," explained the Montclair, N.J. resident. 
"The game itself? It's no different at all. You have to have the proper balance of hitting, starting pitching and relief pitching. That never changes.". 
Pressed to admit a difference in reliefpitching today as opposed to years ago, Yogi finds none. 
"Reliefpitching is reliefpitching.JoePage was a relief spedalist for us many years ago, and Cleveland had a guy like Ray Narleski. The bullpen has always been a key to success and there have been relief specialists for years in baseball." 
A veteran of a record 20 World Series and 17 All-Star games, Yogi's list of Series records requires two extensive paragraphs in the Baseball Register, the Sporting News' bible ofactive players and coaches, and his full biography spans some three pages. 
One might think that Yogi would be hard pressed to single out his most memorable moment in baseball: his home run in the 1959 All-Star game, his grand slam in the 195 3 World Series, his three homers and 10 RBis in the 1956 Series, his election to the Hall of Fame in 1972. 
"It had to be the 19 58 World Series," said the 
Yankee coach without hesitation. "We were 
down three games to one against Milwaukee and 
won three in a row just like Pittsburgh did last . 
year. That had to be my biggest thrill." 
Yogi may be making another trip to the Series 
with the Yankees this year. 

"I think our biggest attribute this season has 
been our bench," explaint:d the 55-year-old 
Berra. "Not only have they filled inwhere we had 
injuries to people like RuppertJones and Bucky 
Dent, but a healthy competition has developed 
between everyone at a given position. 

"It seems like everyone has pitched in this year 
and filled in where we had gaps." 

But Yogi might be a bit reluctant to face the 
Pirates in theWorld Series this year, not because 
of the competition, but because ofwho is on the 
opposition. His youngest son Dale is an infielder 
with the Pirates. 

"I would really like to see him play, butI never 
really have a chance unless there is a game onTV. 
Dale was a good football and hockey player too, 
and the decision aboutwhich sport to pursue was 
entirely up to him." 

Yogi's eldest son Larry was a catcher in the 
Mets' organization and middle son Tim was a 
wide receiver with the Giants and Colts in the 
NFL. 

Having been such a prominent member ofthe 
New York sports scene for so many years, Yogi 
has certainly become a celebrity, a position 
that necessarily has its drawbacks. 

"Granted it is tough to go somewhere and not 
be recognized, but I have become used to it. I 
never really mind the attention, but it depends 
on when the people get you." 

When America knows you on a first-name 
basis, it's tough to be inconspicuous. 

.NFL 
]continued from page 12J 

season's end and the first pla.yoff game. That 
way, if a troublesome tie exists, there will be a 
week's leeway for a special playoff g~me. 
Surely there are other alternatives besides 
pounding on the little guys! 

So Pete Rozelle & Co., after this season, when 
you sit down and deliberate for tl:..; ll~r time over 
the instant replays for officials (a1 ther ex­
cellent idt:a, by the way), be practic.< .. Protect 
your quarterbacks·and open up the offense. But 
don't forget that after 16 weeks you want teams 
to reach the playoffs because of their own 
achievements and not through the humiliation ·-of the rebuilders> · ..... :·· : 

· l. 'll I 
I / • I ~ 

NATIONAL CONFERENCE Etst 
W L T Pet. PF PA 3 1 0 .750 118 40 3 1 0 .750 93 68 1 3 0 .250 87 99 1 3 0 .250 72 121 
471 3 0 .250 76 
Ceqtrtl 4 0 0 1.000 117 41 2 2 0 .500 72 106 2 2 0 .500 71 83 1 3 0 .250 47 114 1 3 0 .250 45 87 

'Nest San Francisco 3 1 0 .750 104 91 Los Angeles 2 2 0 .500 108 79 
Atlanta 2 2 0 .soc 97 82 New Orleans 0 4 0 ,()(){, 68 104 
AMI;RICAN CONFERENCE Etst W L T Pet. PF PA 
Buffalo 4 0 0 1.000 96 50 New England 3 1 0 .750 115 99 Miami 3 0 65
1 .750 66 Baltimore 2 2 0 .500 85 76 N.Y.Jets 0 4 0 .000 72 
109 Centrtl 
3 -1 67

Pittsburgh 0 .750 117 Houston 
3 1 0 .750 67 64 Cleveland 2 2 0 .500 78 90 Cincinnati 1 3 0 .250 68 75 
Weat San Diego 4 0 0 1.000 118 57 Oakland 2 2 0 .500 82 89 Seattle 2 2 0 .500 75 87 Denver 1 3 0 .250 ~4 100 Kansas City 0 4 0 .000 50 88 
vesterd•r• o•m• 

New England 23, enver 14 
rennis 
-~ ---~-

Tlllrd Slnglll 
1. 
Sue Davis, WM 6-0 

2. 
Cathy Moore, EM 5-1 

3. 
Sue Pulley, SLU <J-2 

4. 
Peggy Wtlsll, NO s-3 

5. 
Cindy Bagley, C'M 2-4 

6. 
Ctrmel Munzt, SMC 1-5 

7. 
Mary Ellen Markowski, MU o-6 


Fourtll Slnglll
I 

1. 
Slltllt Cronin, ND 1-G 

2. 
Carol Tschudy, WM 5-1 

3. 
Mturttn A. O'Brien, SMC 4-2 

4. 
Kristin Moser, MU 2-4 tie Ellen Fejfar, SLU 2-4 tie Laura lauckner, EM 2-4 


7. Central Mlch lgan (forfeit) 
Firat Doubles 
1. Robin Barksdale-Mary Cornell MU
6-0 • 
2. Mary Jo Colonna-Suzan Green EM
5-1 • 
3. 
Lindt Hoyer-Tine Steplltn, ND 4-2 

4. 
Ann Huber-Mtry Sotrgel, SMC W 

5. 
Lori Magoon-Lynna Schendel WM 

2-4 ' 

6. 
Missy Chapman-Jane Paver, CM 1-5 

7. 
Missy Demuth-llnda Oakley, SLU o-6 



Baseball 
AMERIC~N LEAGUE 
------------~-------------­
1 ,
Tuesday,-Septeaiber 30, 1980 • 11 I 
I 

I Wilt
Houston 8 9 6 7 . 5 71 Los Angeles 87 69 .558 2 ,Cincinnati 86 71 . 548 3\o\ 
NCAA grants basketball 

Atlanta 80 75 .516 8\o\ San Franclse< 73 8 2 •471 1 5 \o\ San Diego 70 87 .446 19\o\ 
Ytattrdty'a Gtmll 

berths; names sites, dates 

San Francisco at Atlanta, canceled, rain New York 5, Pittsburgh 4, 10 InningsMontreal 5, St. Louis 2 Philadelphia 6, Chicago 5, 15 Innings MISSION, Kan. (AP) -The 1lost percentages of the teaffi8 Only games scheduled Mid-Eastern Athletic and their opponents. • 
_Conference. the Southwestern In other toUJnament-related Athletic Conference and the announcements, the NCAA TransAmerica Conference have said its 1980 college cham­been granted automatic berths pionship was the most fi­in the 1981 NCAA national nancially successful to date. Basketball Championship The final four teams playing in Tournament, the NCAA an­Indianapolis last March re­nounced Monday. ceived $326,377 apiece, those The champions of the three losing in the regionals received conferences will get spots in the $203,98~ and those eliminated 48/slot tournament, making a in first and second rounds got total of26 berths that will go to $81,~94 in addition to travel 
automatic qualifiers. Another expenses. 22 openings are available for at­' TheNe\vOrleansSuperdome large selection ofindependents I already had been designated as and other conference teams. host for the 1982 finals. 
[continued./ru111 page 12) The officers of the National The officers also designated 
Collegiate Athletic Association dates for the 1981 tournament felt ;orne pressure being un­approved the automatic berths games: defeated-everyone -counts after the NCAA division I First-and second-round com­on me for a point. I just had to basketball Commitee recom­petition atProvidence, Dayton, play a lot smarter this week­·mended the conferences based Texas-Austin and UCLA will be end." 'on the high quality of their March 12 and 14, with action at 
basketball competition. Charlotte, Alabama-Tuscalosa, Beginning with the 1983 Wichita State and Texas-E) 

• • .Western 
Coash and the remainder of 
tournament, no more than half Paso March 13 «nd 15.

Saint Mary's tennis contingent the 48-team bracket can be The East regional at thewill face Western Michigan a­made up of automatic quali­Omni in Atlanta and the Westgain this weekend when they fiers, meaning that at least two regional at Utah will be Marchplay in an invitational hoste.d by slots will have to be cut in the 19 and 21. The Mideast regional 
lit  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
New York  99  57  .635  
Baltimore  96  61  .611  3·Y~  
Boston  82  72  .532  16  
Milwaukee  83  75  .525  17  
Detroit  81  75  I  .519  18  
Cleveland  77  78  .497  211A  
Toronto  64  92  .410  35  
\Nest  

Central Michigan. 
next two yers. at Indiana and the Midwest Wayne Duke, basketball regionnal at the LouisianaThe Irish take a 7-0 duals committee charman and Big Superdome in New Orleans willrecord to Chicago on Friday for Ten Conference commissioner, be March 20 and 22. . 

a five-team tournament hosted said the panel is consideringby Chicago Circle. Joining them going to a computer-formu­The national championshipwill be Northern Illinois, Iowa lated system for figuring con­will be at the Spectrum inand Illinois University. 
ference strength based on won-· Philadelphia March 28 and 30. 

xKansas City 9 2 6 4 .590 Oakland 8 0 77 .510 12•YI Minnesota 74 82 .474 18 

Sports Briefs,_____
Texas 73 83 .468 19 

Sports

Chicago 66 88 .429 25 California 65 90 .419 26 !1 Seattle 59 97 .378 33 
NO-Army tickets 

' x-cllnched division title Yllttrdey'a Gtmll 
Staff: 

Baltimore 5-4. Boston 2-3 Detroit 8, Toronto 2 California 6, Milwaukee 2 
ursday meetin

Only games scheduled 
NATIONAL LEAGUE Etst 
at 6:30pm.

GB Montreal 87 70 .554 Philadelphia 86 70 .551 Y2 
w L Pet. 
MSU deadline 
7

Pittsburgh 80 77 .510 St. Louis 72 85 .459 
15 'is today at 6 pm.
New York 65 92 .414 22 
93 23Y2
Chicago 63 .404 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the Issue In which the ad Is run. Tilt Ollttrvtr office will acceptclasslfleds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classlfleds must be pre-paid, either In person or through the mall.







Classifieds 
FOUND: Crou Pen near Alumni -RIDE NEEDED to ARIZONA o.a.a.p. NMCI lour Miami GA llx. Call Stan --·-----·---­
Bouncer~ needed lor "The EmptyCo11Bob30117
NOTICES PERSONALS 
over Oct. break. PittaM col Jim 19.2 
tc.g." If Interested cal AnHo •·•­
11700. 
A apec:lalthonk you to thoM who .&310.
Will pay top dollar lor 2 !be to MiamiLoaf: In North Dining Hall, o REGGIE 

mode copping
game. Call callect, Hugh Ruddock. my o lontolllc 

JACKSON autograph baaeboR glove INSTANT cAsH PAID FOR ClASS RINGS. experience. To Jon~ Mary, Corby,with MARK GANNON written on II. 'THE &MI'TY KEG' needl COMEDIANS.
1-602·262-55111. 

NEED RIDE TO DAYTONA BEACH, FlA. Men'a $35-$85 and up. Free houM Vlcld, Jonlne, Belly, Mary llelh, KOlle,
Big YANKEE lonandgrttal Mnllmen­colla. 25S.~2. MAGICIANS, and IMI'IIESSIONISTS....
FOR BREAK. CAI.L DAMIAN AT 1005. Ann, Koren, Lila and the Groce 
tal value. DESPERATE FOR RETURN. PittaM contact Anita ._1...310 oa
lloys.

CoH 3441. PLEASE. FOR SAU: -Four YES llckell -aoon aa poaable.
CONTACT LENS W£ARERS. Save on With love and thonka
NMCI ride to St. Loula. WMkend Oct. fourth row, padded 1ttall. Call IIU 
Tereto SN

brand nome hOrd or aon lena LOll; Cor k8VI an Tony' a SHOE Repair. 3. WHI lhare expen.... Pleoae call at 6770 IOSTONIUS: TheloetonCiubwlllbe
auppflM. Send tor lrM llluatrotecl 
SUe~O.

1 key chain about 5 keys It round running a bua lo and lrom 1011on
catalog. Contact Lena Suppllea, NEEDED: Two GA'a lor Army game. NEW JERSEY CLUIIUS IS NOW-TAKING
call Thereaa Po-232-6298 lor October break. II wHIIeave NO Illox 7453, Phoenll, N. 85011. 
RIDE NEEDED TO PlnSBURGH FOR Call Colleen at 2207. 
RESERVATIONS FOR FAU BREAK. CAI.L pm, ~. ie ond relum lrOf"'BOitOI! 
CHRIS AT A4790RICEVINAT 76#17 FOil

FOUND: Croll pen. Per~onollzed OCTOBER BREAK. CAN LEAVE FRIDAY at 9 om, Oct. 26. lleaerve o apotOVERSEAS JOBS: Summer/~ round (Michael). Call Mike 277·0690. AFTERNOON. CALl PAnY (SMC) •1011. Will pay $$$ lor Army G.A.'I. CoH MORE INFO. nowl Sign-up In Lafortune Lobbv
Europe, S.Amer., Auatrollo, Alia. All 
John 1167. Wed. night, Oct. 1, 7-9 pm. Coli k

lleldl $50(}.$1200 monthly. Expense~ COrloa, Itwol o aupe~ partyl $100; tso depo~lt requited upon
paid. Slght..elng. frM Info. Write: 
Needed: 2 GA llckela to Miami Love you, Margie llgn·up. BOSTON IUSUC, llox 52-IN '· Corona Del Mar, 
game. Call Jane at 7924. CA. 92625. FOR SALE John Sheridan, Happy Sept. 30 and 
------~----~-­
Needany•Armyfix. Call Mlke16110. Happy Birthday too. lletler late than It I remain at the Obaerver lor

FOR RENT 
another evening, 1 may laM myAUTHENTIC OLYMPIC 19110 SWEAT 

NEED MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS. mind, not to menllon my aonlly.

SUIT FOR SAU: OF A LIMITED 4000 -· 
FOR RENT: Ugly Duckling Reni·A· WILL PAY$ OR PROVIDE RIDE TO EAST IOYCOR SENIOR FOIIMAI.III I HOftWf. If I don't work at TIM Obmwr oa often aa palllbte, I won't
MANUFACtURED FOR THE ENnRE 
Cor. Priced lrom $7.95 o day and UNITED STATES. BEAUnFUL REO,WHITE lANSING. CAI.L NANCY •111• SMC. 
LOST/FOUND _., 
10 MORE DAYS•. TIU WE'RE HIDING haveany money lor beer-buying atcenll a mlle. Phone 255·2323 AND IILUE VELOR MATERIAL MORE 

FOR SAU:: 2 Michigan Stole GA ON THOSE IACKSTIIfETSIII Senior llor. Seeing aa how the
lor r-rvoHona. INFO: SEND NAME AND NUMBER TO 
tlckell. Call 232·9507 anytime. average man (and woman, THE lOSS IS IACKII etpeelolly women) only utilize LOST: ~LO ROSEBUD CHARM -THE lOSS IS IACKII 
P.O. lOX 621 NOTRE DAME. SIZE 
WEDIUM AVAII.AIU: ONLY $150. 
NMCI 2 Miami GA'1. Call Don 1621 abOut 10!. of their brain capacity,
IIIIOICEN Off FROM RING. LOST 
THE BOSS IS IAC1(11 and alao realizing that alcohalkllll 

SAlUROAY EITHER AT GAME OR IN 
MUST HAVE • ARMY G.A TICICETSII brain celll, H -aapparent that 
SENIOR REWARD.
FRONT OF IAJI. tJv drinking beer one ro.... the
CALL JIM 2 77-8862 Okloberfell Flower Sole -lend a
CALL 7969. 
lrlend no_,. general efficiencyTICKETS Help! NMCI many GA MIAMI ttx. SMC·ND Dining Hall. lllnee bV red~ the number ol 
WANTED -order~ token In the of "'e brain, 
LOST: SMC cloa ring loaf Saturday 
Cathy 7927 brain cell not JIOfmaly u•lzedone 
(9·20) In LeMons Hal. Engraving correapandlngly ~ 1t1e
NMCI ride to Chicago Of well Get wrapped up In Oktobertetllllreodl: TAG lA '111. PittaM contacl 
prOPOrflan of cell luncllonlng at

aubulbl Frldcry, Oct.3 Of Sot., Oct. •· Wanted: 2 Tlckell to AWND GAME~ NMCI 5 t1x lor Miami game and 3 tbc Buy a 1980 OktobertMf T·lhlrt. Sold
Tereto at •·1·•7aa. lor Air Force. Cal 114115. In NO·IMC dining halt and at lui capacity. Thereb'e, In order to
Will lhore expen•a. Call Jane at Contact Joe or Dan 2117·3311 
lmpfove the OYerOI etlldency Clftd
m•. 
qually of bV .,.,Clftd hence, my

Need any • llx lor Army game. Cal Oldobet1Mf --· LOST: SET OF KEYS WITH CAMAIIO mind, 1muttcantlnue1owor11 at TheCAU JIM 277-1162 
16110. 
Anyone '"*"*' In partlclpollng

TAG. PlEASE CALL 277-0361 AFTER 6 WANTED: 1977 THE DOME yearbOok. In Gelman dancing at OktobenNI Obler1ler aa often 01poeelble. SciJOfi
Iwll trade OM Mlc:hlsian Slate tlckef 
....
P.M. My brother loft hll In lire. Call Paul NEEDED: N.D.-MICH~ STATE 11er Garter!, pleoM phafte MIMy at
lor one atudent All Force ticket. Cal Riehle at6111 or 232·1545. nm atl706. TICKETS. CAU 233-69... 277..191 Of Mindy Gl277-46f7. 
·~ 
.'• 
----~ ~--~-~~ 

Tuesday, September 30, 1980 -page 12


Svorts 
In Irish Invite 

Western Michigan takes first 
by Kelly Sullivan Women's Sports Editor 
Rebounding from last year's fourth place showing, the Notre Dame women's tennis team rolled to a second place finish, just three points shy of tournament champion Western Michigan, in the fourth annual Irish Invitational. 
"I really didn't expect to finish that high," noted Notre Dame coach Sharon Petro. "This team keeps suprising me with their performance-they played extremely well." 
The seven-team tournament included neighboring St. Mary's and featured several Division I schools, including the cham­pions Western squad, and Central and Eastern Michigan. Marquette and St. Louis also were entered. The Belles tied Marquette for fourth place in the Sunday-Monday event. 

The tournament was played round robin, with each. team competing against the six other schools in a dual match. Four singles and two doubles flights were played, and one point was earned for every match won. 
Notre Dame's Sheila Cronin won her number four singles flight, defeating all opposition in that slot en route to a perfect 6-0 slate. The senior captain claimed straight set victories in all but one match, to upgrade her singles ledger to 10-0 on the season. 
The second doubles duo of Mary Legeay and Pam Fischette also earned the Irish a trophy, as the pair kept their unblemished record intact with two set 
Patriots 'bomb' Broncos in Monday night game 
Denver, 1-3, scored firstFOXBORO, Mass. (AP)­when quarterback MattSteve Grogan launched a Robinson tired his first tuch­4'yard go-ahead bomb to down pass of the season, a 17­Stanley Morgan in the third yarder to Haven Moses midway quarter and the New England through the first period.
Patriots capitalized on two pass 

John Smith booted the first ofinterference penalties to post a 
his field
23-14 National FootballLeague three goals, a 
26-yarder, to close the gap to 7­victory over the Denver 3 after the first quarter.
Broncos in yesterday night's His second field goal coverednationally televised game. 

20 yards and gave New EnglandThe pass to Morgan, his fifth a 20-14lead with 9:38 left in thetouchdown catch of the season game. A pass interference calland fourth of40 or more yards, against safety Bill Thompsonput the Patriots, 3-1, ahead had brought the ball from the1714 with 8:06 left in the 
Broncos' 28 to the 4 and was
period. 

instrumental in keeping theA little more than thre(j drive alive. 
minutes before,-Denver had taken a· 14-10 on Otis 

[continued on page 9]
Armstrong's Byard burst. 


victories over all six opponents. Legeay, twice Indiana state champion at number five singles, played a remarkable tournament despite an injury sustained in last week's match with Ball State. 
"Mary played against a girl with the strongest serve I've ever seen in a college woman before," explained Petro. "She had tremendous pain and lack of mobility in her wrist this week from trying to return those serves. She did a terrific job even though her hand was bandaged and Pam (Fischette) covered for her well." 
The tournament's number one singles flight was captured by Saint Mary's Patsy Coash. Coash, the defending state champ in Division III, ran her string ofvictories to nine on the season. The Kalamazoo, MI, native has yet to lose a set at number one singles this fall. Coash's toughest match was a 7­6, 6-2 battle against Division I power Western. The Belles' sophomore never gave up more than three games in any one set the entire tournament. 
"Western was my toughest match because their player was an exceptional hitter," re­marked Coash. "I knew I was going to be up against some really good competition, and I 
[continued on page 11] 


'Thumbs doum ' 

NFL rule changes 

Since we've been immersed in all that National Football League hoopla for some four weeks now, perhaps you've noticed a few (very few) rule changes made since last season. 
If you have noticed, congratulations. If you haven't, don't worry-you really haven't missed much. 
You see, the NFL has a thing about making a half dozen or so .trivial little modifications of existing rules, with hopes of making things better and safer for everyone. But this year, the rule-makers completely missed the boat. 
The problem lies in the fact that a few rules, which could have been left alone, were tampered with, while those which were in greatest need of repair were ignored. 
Among the new rules enacted were steps to further protect quarterbacks from on-rushing 
linemen.  Also  included  were  an  easing  of  
limitations  during  injury  timeouts  and  re­ 
strictions on the two-minute offense.  

And while the league was crawling through the paperwork, a few basic flaws in its logic were going untouched. 
First of all, does it make sense to reward someone for an exceptionally poor perfor­mance? Oh granted, the poorer teams shouldget the betterdraft choices in hopes ofbalancing the league. But take the following case as a team laying down and playing dead because it had more to gain by losing. 
The St. Louis Cardinals were in Chicago playing the Bears in the regular season finale for both clubs. The Cards were hopelessly out ofthe playoff picture with a dismal 5-10 record. The host Bears were in perhaps the most awkward position a playoff contender could be in. Not only did the 9-6 Bears need the 10-5 Washington Redskins to lose in Dallas later that afternoon, and for themselves to beat the Cardinals, but for the combined point-differential of the two games to add up to more than 33 points. 
It was a storybook finish for the Bears as they destroyed the Cards, 42-6 while Roger Staubach pulled off one final miracle bringing the_ Cowboys from behind for the 35-34 win. 
Yet there's something that has to bother you about all this. _ _The Bears go to the playoffs. The Redskins sit 
Michael Ortman 


home. 
Both teams were 10-6. 

The teams had not played each other during the season. Both teams were 8-4 in games played within the National Conference. The Bears had out-sc~red their opponents by 
57. The Redskins had out-scored their op­
ponents by only 53. 
The tie is resolved. 

But isn't there something wrong with the fact that so much of the verdict lies in the hands of the St. Louis Cardinals? 
"I'm a Cardinal player. I've never really liked the Redskins. In fact, I hate them. I'm going to get paid just as much if we win as ifwe lose. I'm going to get paid just as much if we get beat by one or fifty-one. If we win, we finish fourth, ahead of the Giants. Ifwe lose, last place is ours. Along with last place comes an easier schedule next season. With the poorer record comes a higher draft choice." 
This player suddenly finds himself asking the question, "How can I afford not to lose this game, and while I'm at it, why not take a parting shot at the Redskins?" 
The other flaw here lies in the fact that the league is promoting its teams not only to win, but to beat the opponent as badly as it possibly can. 
That's just not right. It's humiliating for the loser. It's poor sportsmanship on the part of the team that continues to run up the score because, "You never know when you're going to need a few extra points to break a playoff tie, huh?" 
What about records against common op­ponents as a way to break the deadlock? Or better yet, scrap that week wasted between the conference championship games and the Super Bowl and move the open date between the 
(continued on page 1ol 



