------~--------­

by Beth Hulfm(/n Sports Editor 
There are a lot of similarities between the Michigan W ol­verines and Notre Dame Fight­ing Irish. Both teams sport a 1-0 record, both teams have sea­soned and respected head coac!.es in Bo Schembechler and Dan Devine, both teams have potentially explosive offensive power, and both teams have acclaimed denial squads. 
Put the two dubs on the field as Schembechler and Devine will do today in Notre Dame Stadium at 1: 30 p.m. and you are guaranteed a good, tough game. 
"We've only played Michigan twice since the series was re­newed, but it already has become a tremendous rivalry again. It's just like when we play a Purdue or a Michigan State ora Southern Cal-you know you have a tremendous battle on your hands," says Devine, who is currentlv in his sixth and last season ,;t the Irish helm. 
Michigan is indeed a lucky team when visiting South Bend, since 1887 that club has man­aged five straight wins in Irish territory, the most recent one occuring in 1978 when the Blue downed Notre Dame 28-14. 
The Wolverines narrowly de­
feated Northwestern 17-10 last week while the Irish were idle, following a 31-10 thrashing of Purdue on September 6. 
"Ofcourse th~ open date is not conclusive to sustaining en­thusiasm," says Devine, but the man who boasts 45-12-10 coach­ing record at Notre Dame feels his young and spirited team is ready to knock heads against the Big Ten power. 
"They didn't show a great deaf against Northwestern," reports Devine of the Michigan scoring unit. "They ran from one basic formation. In our game last year, they showed 10 different sets." 
Last year in Ann Arbor's Michigan Stadium, with 105,111 spectators in attendance, the Irish topped the Wolverines 12­10 after a last second field goal block by linebacker Bob Crable and four field goals by the now­graduated Chuck Male. 
The eighth ranked Irish (AP) will present an offense spear­
.headed by senior Mike Courey. Courey, who won the job over at least four other top contenders, passed for 151 yards against the Boilers, going 1 0-1 3 in the aerial parade while rushing .for 59 yards. 
"everyone focused so much attention on the quarterback situation, but we knew whoever ended up playing would do well," offered Devine. "Mike won the job last spring, and we saw nothing this fall to make us change our minds about him. He's a heady player who can do a number of different things for you, and he most certainly jus­tified our faith in hil:n against Purdue." 
Joining the 6-1, 202 pound signal caller in the backfield will be sophomore Phil Carter at halfback whileJohnSweeneyand 
Titan missile explodes ;no radiation leaks 
DAMASCUS, Ark. (AP) -an underground Titan II missile silo housing a nuclear warhead ex­ploded "like Roman candles" in rural Arkansas yesterday after a workman dropped a wrench socket that punctured the mis­sile's fuel tank. At least 22 workers were injured, but Pen-
NCAA OKs coverage 
• 
...As T.V. vteUJers 
by M(/ry Fran Callahan Senior Staff Reporter 
Attorneys on behalf of Notre Dame did a large amount of footwork during the past two days in order to secure rights from 40 cable. television companies to televise the Michigan football game. Their extensive negotiations paid off, for the game shall be televised on the screens of South Bend today. 
Attorney Leonard V. Campinelli, one of the plaintiffs, yesterday explained that the legal team fighting for the broadcast of the games travelled around Indiana yesterday and secured signiatures, which granted WNDU-TV permission to televise today's game. The broadcasting ofthe remainder ofthe games, however, remains to be negotiated. 
"I just talked to Bazil O'Hagan (another plaintiff), and he said ht expects they can get the signiatures for the rest of the games," Campinelli commented. He did know though when the negotiations would occur. 
The controversy surrounding the televised broadcasts of Notre Dame home football games was spawned last week when the National Collegiate Athletic Association announced a regulation which would have forbid televised broadcasts of the games. The rationale behind the regulation was that smaller colleges in the state would not be hurt attendance-wise ifgames were not televised. 
tagon sources said no damage occurred to the warhead and no radiation escaped. 
The Omaha World-Herald, how­ever, said sources told it the 103­foot Titan, the nation's most powerful intercontinental bal­listic missile, was destroyed and that some damage did occur to the thermonuclear warhead The newspaper said its source em­phasized that no radiation leak was detected and there had been no danger that the warhead would detdrlate. 
About 1,400 people were evacuated from communities up to 10 miles away during the night 


breathe sigh ofrelief 
Responding to the regulation, George Roberts, NO '56 along with seven other area lawyers announced last week that he intended to take the NCAA to court on grounds that it was acting "arbitrary and capricious." Roberts said he and his team were motivated to save the football games simply because local residents and alumni rely on the televised broadcasts when unable to obtain tickets. 
The case went to South Bend's Circuit Court last Thursday, but attorneys for the NCAA and the local lawyers settled the case out of court-by conferring· behind closed doors for approximately an hour and a half. 
Both legal parties agreed that Notre Dame would comply with the l¥sociation's regulation, but the NCAA would allow the games to be televised only if the plaintiffs could obtain consent for the arrangement from 40 cable television companies, which had planned to pick up the games not televised, on their circuits. 
At Thursday's court hearing, O'Hagan commented that he· and the other plaintiffs had found the cable companfes "cooperative" when contacted throughout the week. Though the rights to televise the remainder ofthe home football games has not yet been officially granted, Campinelli expressed his optimism by saying, 1'We expect to get it." 
......

I • 
, , , The Blue Clue -page 5 

Pete Buchanan alternate at full­back 
"Phil Carter proved he's not Vagas," says Devine. "But in time he will take his place up there." 
The biggest worry spot on Devine's list is the line behind which Courev must direct the offense. "Ou·r offensive line is still young, we're still under­manned, but they showed they could dominate in the Purdue game." 
Schembechler will turn a fresh defensive crew against the Irish, with just four returning starters back from last year's squad­
but, Devine refuses to be fooled by the new faces. · 
"Michigan is always known for their great defensive personnel," says the Irish mentor. Devine expresses a lot of respect for Bill McCartney, Michigan'sdefensive coordinator. McCartney was a player under Devine in his Missouri days. 
Recently the Wolverines have disphlyed something of a one­man, starring sophomore An­thony Carter. Carter nabbed TO two passes in the contest with the Wildcats, collecting a total of 84 yards on the day. 
(contitllled on page 2) 
when a fire broke out and smoke started billowing from the 155­foot-deep silo in a remote area about 52 miles north of Little Rock. At 3 a.m., about 11 hours after the fire was first discovered, the silo blew. 
President Carter said in Washington that he had "stayed in close contact" all morning with Defense Secretary Harold Brown about the accident. 
"We deeply regret the casual­ties from the explosion," Carter said. "The situation is under control and there is no indication of any radioactivity at all." 
Mark said the missile, the nation's largest ICBM with a range of 6, 300 miles, was un­dergoing maintenance Thursday night when a three-pound wrench socket fell, bounced offa thrust mount, and struck the missile, puncturing the firststage fueltank holding about 10,000 gallons. A sac spokesman said a maintenance worker had drop­ped the tool. About 24 minutes later, the workers reported in­dications ofa fire, Mark said, and flooded the silo with water. 
It was the second accident this week involving sophisticated Air Force weaponry. On Monday, a B/52 bomber caught fire at Grand Forks Air Force Base in North Dakota. State disaster officials said an intercepted Air Force message indicated the plane ~ay have been carrying nuclear weapons, but SAC ~­fused to confirm that was so. 

...-----~-----~­
----------_..~--~--.-~--------------------. 

l'TetlJS~l~J~r~J~·e~~~S~==~==~~~==~=========sa=ru=r=da=y=,s=ep=te=m=b=er=2=o=,1=9B=O=-p=~=e=2~ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Chrysler Corp.is beginning an arbitratio~ program to help automobile and truck owners settle their disputes with dealers. Similar programs are under way at American Motors Corp., General Motors Corp: and Ford~otor Co. Chrysler spokesmen say the first arbitratwn ~an~! wlil be set up nextweek in Lake County in northeastern Illm01s. By t~e end of the year, Chrysler said it hopes to ~ave.40 panels m operation around the country, with natwnwide coverage planned by the end of 1981. One of the main objectives of the program "is to make dealers more responsive to problems and correct any problems quickly before the need to go to arbitration," said R. D. Hill, a zone service ~anager for Chrysl~r in nlk Grove. Three members of the pubhc a?d a ?ealer will Sit on the panel to hear customer complaints, said Hill. The panel concept was tested in Nassau County, N.Y., ove.r the last y~ar. Chrysler said 21 complaints went to the panel, With most bemg resolved in the customer's favor and none going to court. 
Older, wealthier credit cardholders are getting a "free ride" at the expense of younger credit consumers who shoulder most of the finance charge burden, two Purdue University researchers say. "The current pricing strategy has the young, less wealthy cardholders with more dependents paying for the noncredit services used by older, more wealthy families," Charlene Sullivan, a professor at Purdue's Credit Research Center, said. Prof. Sullivan and her colleague, Robert Johnson, say their study shows banks will have to change current credit card pricing procedures to make them more equitable. The study divided the majdrity of credit card users into a group that pays offits monthly accounts in full, and another group of"revolvers," who run up finance charges by allowing part oftheir balances to carry over from one month to the next. Prof. Sullivan says revolvers use bank cards mainly as a source of credit, while nonrevolvers use cards for convenience and as a guaranteed credit line. The study reveals that revolvers are frequently younger people earning an average monthly income of $1,765. Nonrevolvers were older and had small families with an average monthly income ofabout $2,300. 
Singing t~legr~ms are back, with tuxedoed professionals warblmg anythmg from popular tunes to opera arias in person. . . 
Western Union began a singing t~legram service usi':g company messengers in 19 3 3. The messengers ~ere rep~aced m the 1940s by telephoned songs, and the entire service ~as canceled in 1974 because oflack ofbusiness, the company said. 
"But based on new tests, there appears to be a marvelous marketing opportunity," Donn G. Dutcher, a company spokesman, said Thursday. . . 
Western Union has contracted With Musicbox Inc., a New York concern, to provide performers in most major cities. Singing telegrams by telephone will be available everywhere. 
An in-person performance costs $40, and a telephoned greeting costs $19. 
Bethlehem Steel Corp. has announced plans to recall 130 workers next week because of a slow but steadily increasing demand for steel products, company officials say. At least another 190 will return the week of Sept. 28 when a plate mill resumes operation. Another 60 workers could be recalled Oct. 4, when tentative plans call for start-up ofa blast furnace. Company spokesman Mike Hagey said the recalls would make the number of those laid off to under 600 from a peak of 1,4~0 the last week in June. The pick up in business probably will continue, he said. 

Millions of Americans are doing their banking by machine these days, and people who use the automated tellers have to take extrasteps to protect themse~ves and their money. There are an estimated 14,000 mac.hmes across the country in locations ranging from bank lobbies to apartment complexes, from shoppin~ centers to airports. The terminals dispense cash, accept depost ts and let you check your balance-24 hours a day, 365 days a year. 
Cuba's first cosmonaut and his Soviet mission commander hurtled toward a space rendezvous today with a pair of Soviet cosmonauts nearing a world endurance record in an orbiting space station, Tass reported. Arnaldo Tamayo Mendez, a 38-year-old Cuban air force pilot, and veteran Soviet cosmonaut Yuri V. Romanenko, 36, rocketed into space Thursday from the Baikonur launch center in Soviet Central Asia. The Cuban was the seventh non-Soviet citizen to fly in the lntercosmos series, the official news agency said. Romanenko flew for96 days in theSoyuz26 flight in 1977­
78. Tass said they were scheduled to dock with the orbiting 
·Salyut 6 space station today to begin a a seven-day mission of scientific experiments. Cosmonauts Leonid Popov and Valery Ryumin have been orbiting aboard the lab since April. On Oct. 1, they will break the world space endurance recordof175 days, 36 minutes set by Ryumin and Vladimir Lyakhov last year. 
Partly cloudy today an? tomorrow wit~ warm days and mild nights. Highs 'both days m the low to mid 80s. Lows tomorrow night in the low to mid 60s. 
InsideSaturday 

Notre Dame: All's Well, But... 
There's something very special about Notre Dame football weekends, and one of the in­grediants which goes into that mix is the reaction between returning alumni and current students. 
As you browse around campus this weekend, you'll no doubt be impressed by the physical improvements which have been added to the skyline during the past few years. The campus is bursting at the seams with construction activity­
millions upon millions of dollars of it. 

The old landmarks are still there too, the grass is still green and football still reigns supreme as the fall envelopes the Midwest. 
Yes, at first, second, and perhaps even third. look, all appears to be very well at Notre Dame du lac. 
But at the risk of putting just a wee bit of a damper on your weekend, let me fill you in on some of the problems that lie just under the pleasant surface of the campus. 
Undoubtedly, many ofthe problems we feel are important now also occupied your mind in years past, but I think there may be some new wrinkles you'd be interested in. 
I think I can hit a lot of bases-and save you reading time -by explaining them in terms of one general area-student social life. Academics and athletics are probably better offnow than ever here at N.D., but the problem ofcoping socially is the black sheep of the Notre Dame family. 
Alcohol abuse is high among students. 0 vercrowding has become a yearly fixture, and the exodus of many upperclassmen off campus is making Notre Dame students the almost weekly target of vandals, burglars, and muggers. 

My point is this: the investment in student social 
life must be an on-going and substantial one. 
Although there have been rumours of move­ment towards a new or expanded student center, no official plans seem forthcoming soon. Notre Dame students, through their complaints about social life, are demanding that something along this line be pushed. 
The quiet sophomore sitting alone in his dorm room with a bottle or the frustrated junior who starts using drugs to cope with his studies both are crying out for a place, a time, and a group to have fun and relax with-without leaving the campus, and after it gets to cold to play ball outdoors. 
Maybe, just maybe, if students had a central place to meet where there were movies, bowling, games, a nightclub; and other activities available, there wouldn't be the exodus off campus and the resultant crime wave. If he knew he could always see someone there he knew, maybe that' I< >~lely sophomore or junior wouldn't have to cop out on drugs or booze. 
Maybe. 
But one thing is for sure: Notre Dame has one unique asset-its student body. Let's not let that special quality you as alumni still experience go down the drain. Improvements to social life could assure its future for all of us. 

In the face of these problems, the oft-heard ============:========= 
complaint that "soda! life really stinks around here" seems remote and shallow. But if you look deep and long enough, I think you'll begin to recognize that all those ugly things I mentioned before are not external evils, but rather, visible signs of the discrepencies in social life. 
It's not an immediately obvious problem, but nevertheless, it's still there-eating away at the spirit ofwhat has been called the greatest student body in the nation. 
At it's roots, the problem has been one more of oversight than deliberate exclusion. Ov€r the years, the student body has increased considerably in size. New dorms have been built ( two more housing 500 students are on the way), as well as a new art gallery, laboratories, research facilities, and classrooms. 
In short, millions of dollars have been spent to improve just about every aspect of student life except one-student social life. Don't get me wrong, significant sums have aready been spent­
witness the construction ofStepanCenter and the remodling of the old Science Hall into the LaFortune Student Center-but those invest­ments were made more than a few years ago, and both the size and demands of the student body have changed considerably since then. 
''The boSJ's night out" De.rign Editor..... .John McGrath Night Technician ............... . Deirdre Murphy Copy Editor . .._...... Lynne Daley News Editor . ...... Margie Brassil Day· Editor . ...... Bob Bernoskie Features Design . ..... Molly Wolfe Sports De.rign . ..... Beth Huffman Photographer ........ .John Macor  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer ls8ubllshed by the students of Notre arne and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year($1 0 per semester) by writing The Obnrver, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. ~nd class postage paid; Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. The Obnrver Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved.  

... Gatne 

(continuedfrom page 1) 
"We'll have our hands full with Michigan," says Devine. "They have a veteran offensive line, plus proven skill position players like Anthony _Carter at split end and Butch Woolfolk a tatlback. Michigan went into fall practice with a quarterback sitution that resembled ours, but they have plenty ofcapable people to choose from the same way we do." 
Carter and company will also have full hands, trying to score against the powerful Notre Dame defensive squad. The diminutive 5-11, 161 pound Carter will have Irish captains Tom Gibbons and Bob Crable to answer to while probable Wolverine quarterback Rtt:;P Hewlett may see a lot of Scott Zettek, and other Irish linemen. 

Schembechler and his 14th ranked Wolverines will have to act with caution and utilize all those 1mtapped sources if they hope to defeat the Irish-or, that LII ofwax could get pretty sticky. 
IN CONCERT! In-the-round · -With a Revolving Stage 

FRI. OCT. 1 0 8:30 PM N D 
$9.00/$8.00 all seats reserved-Excellent seats ore still 
A.C.C. box office and River City Records. 

50970 U.S 31 North, 277-4242 3 miles north of 
The Observer Saturday, September 20, 1980-page 3 


Vandais strike sprinkler setup 

by Mike O'Brien 
University Grounds Superin­tendent William Thistlethwaite explained yesterday why sprink­lers were left on for hours in the same spot,blaming vandals for two recent incidents in which students were reportedly drenched by lawn sprinklers. 
The two incidents,both occur­ring near the Library, including one on the path across campus to the ACC both before and after last week's Cars concert, resulted in several complaints from wet and annoyed students. 
Thistlethwaite said that in the case of the ACC incident, vandals turned on the sprinklers and synchronized them to block the quad adjacent to the arena. As for the showering at the Library, near Breen-Phillips Hall,the superintendent reported that the sprinkler heads had been broken off. Delays in obtaining a plum­ber further whetted the deluge. 
According to Thistlethwaite, approximately $4,000 worth of lawn-watering equipment is lost 
to vandals and thieves each 
school year, not to mention the 
costs ofwater and student ire. He 
added that maintenance officials 
plan to fight the vandalism by 
keeping a closer watch on the 
hoses and the sprinklers and if 
necessary, storing them indoors 
until put into use. He said, 
however, there are "not too 
many ways you can lock a hose." 
The g,rounds superintendent further stated that his depart­ment has shifted to a program of watering lawns at night to min­imize inconveniences for persons on the campus. Prime sprinkling hours are now from 12 a.m. to six p.m. 
Director of Maintenance ~dwin Lyon revealed that the grounds crew had successfully instituted the program on an experimental basis during the summer and decided that night watering best "avoids interfer­ence with normal University business."He added that the new system has been met with great enthusiasm. 


Weight room use 
ACC bars non -athletes 
by Davrd Sarphie 
Students who returned to campus this year planning to work out on the Nautilus equpiment housed in the ACC, found that the Athletic Department now bars en­trance to that weight room to everyone but varsity athletes. 
Colonel John Stephens, assistant athletic director, cited the popularity of the room in past years as one reason for the ban. "We always had wall-to-wall people there. It was really a mess," he explained. 
That is not to say that non­varsity athletes are not able to train with weights on campus, Stephens noted. The decision to separate the varsity and non-varsity ath­letes spurred the construc­tion ofa new weight room at the Rockne Memorial. 
"We went all out on that new room. It cost almost $30,000, and it's a big im­provement for all involved," he said. 
The new room will not be open for at least two more weeks. 
The promise of a new room has not appeased many students, who charge they are being discriminated against. They argue that varsity athletes comprise less than ten percent of the total student body. 
Stephens denied that the policy was in any way unfair to non-varsity athletes. 
"Hell nG. We blew a big bundle on th~ new room. Actually, it's the opposite of discrimination, as we help everybody," he claimed, adding that interhall football players do not complain about not getting to use the football stadium for games. 
They can't 
•
watt... 

JUNIORS! 
Michigan St. Ticket Lottery Monday-7pm LaFortune 

EATING 19RINKING & flTttER PIJEASANTJ\IES 
GO IRISH 


BEAT 

BIG BLUE 
Getting an early start on the festive football weekendat Notre Dame, these partiers dropped their blankets, brought out their refreshments, and initiated their own impromptu tatlgater yesterday afternoon at a more secludedarea ofthe campus. (photo by]ohn Macor) 
SATURDAY SEPT. 20 Open 10 am 
The Place to be Before, During, & After The Game 

LUNCH Mon.· Sat. 11:00 ·4:30 t N
DINNER Mon. ·Thurs. 5:00 . 10:00 Fri. ·Sat. 4:30 · ll:00 

Sun. ll:OO · 10 :00 
Douglas
NO 

PHONE 277-6368 
ACROSS FROM UNIVERSITYPARK MALL ON GRAPE ROAD 

I 
t 
l ' 





Features 

Saturday, September 20, 1980 -page 4 
John Anderson's New Wave 
Representative John B. Anderson's 
greatest support comes from people 
looking for an effective alternative to 
the candidates ofthe other two parties. 
His followers include Republicans and 
Democrats alike. The question about 
the man is: Is this New Wave of 
support large enough to propel him to 
the office of the President? 
In this year's presidential election­
more so than in other recent con­
tests-much emphasis is placed on 
the candidates' image and appeal. Each 
guy draws support from some sector of 
the voting p_opulation: Reagan's sup­
port lies with Big Business and the 
senility crowd, Carter's is with Big 
Labor and recent amnesia victims. The 
Anderson support is harder to define. 
.lwen so, I've noticed a peculiar 
phenomenon about Anderson's cam­
paign. The rise in national prominence 
ofthe man from Rockford, Illinois, has 
strangely coincided with the rise in 
popularity of the musical style known 
as "New Wave." 
This is not to say that Mr. Anderson 
or his staff invented New Wave. It's 
just that Anderson could really sell 
himself to many Americans if he 
managed to associate himself with the 
name and image of New Wave­
much like the Ford Motor Company .did with the name and image of Edsel 
Ford. 
Apparently, Representative An­
derson has been employing some 
tactics that border on New Wave, but 
he fails to take the final step. Although 
appearing in the comic strip 
"Doonesbury" is certainly different, 
he stopped just short of a truly New 
Wave appearance on Dick Tracy's 
wrist TV. Anderson could really 
solidify his place in the New Wave 
movement and would gain more 
support from New Wavers if he only 
followed these suggestions: 
Anderson's grooming style is all wrong for the New Wave. He should consider changing his personal ap­pearance to one more closely in tune 
There exists two guitarists whose musical imagination sheds new light on a dimly exposed cornerofthe music world. For many of us, popular,"nor­mal music" is a sufficient breezeway to escapement; but fQr Rick Walters and Barry Stevens, that hallway is too narrow. Their musical yearnings are not satisfied by everyone else's favorite LP. Inspired first by artists William Ackerman and Alex De Grassi, Rick and Barry have returned to their guitars to expand upon a sound they call "guitar impressionism." 
The crux of this music's almost hypnotic appeal is hard to pinpoint. While its nature does not invite lyrics, the addictive "twang" of six strings in their altered state emits more feeling and emotion than many music forms. Its popularity may also be a result ofits versatality. As background tunes, this with the look ofNew Wave fans. First, the glasses: Representative Anderson has got to abandon those black, Conservative frames. I suggest a pair of long, pointed, green horn-rims (rhine­stones optional). The white hair is nicely New Wave, but the way it"s styled is off-a greasy widow's peak or a spike haircut is definitely in order. As for the dark business suit, a yellow jacket and tight, purple velvet pants would do wonders. He should, of course, complete the ensemble with a variety of stategically-placed safety pins. 

Now Anderson might have good 

ideas on the issues, but many Am­ericans are unaware of them. To bring his positions to the public view and to enhance his political visibility An­derson should actively seek the en­dorsements of New Wave musicians. After all, look at the success Governor Jerry Brown's Presidential Campaign enjoyed from Linda Rondstadt's presence ... 
Anderson's support of the !:<.qual Rights Amendment is admirable in­deed. However he could further dis­play his support for eRA by associating himself with the rock group "Devo." That would truly demonstrate an anti­sexist, anti-discriminatory position: 

SUNDAYONWSND 

'Guitar Impressionism '--Notes from the Heart 
Jane Barber &Cat Damico 
is feeling, and for Walters and Stevens, "Success is measured by the amount you get across." 
Playing the guitar since age four­teen, Rick Walters a former NO student, is a veteran of club, concert, and coffeehouse performances. In 1975, Rick retired from public per­formance to create his own music and study the steel-string guitar. This led him in 1978 to the original styles of Ackerman and De Grassi. A cor­respondence began between Will Ackerman and Rick, followed by"over the phone" guitar lessons. Soon Rick was opening Will's concerts, in addition to founding his own Erebus Recordings, which has released Rick's debut album Winter Songs/SelfPortraits. 
Walters claims "Every note comes right from the heart," and explains the patterns which distinguish his style of and index finger. Simultaneously, the melody is played principally on the first and second stiings with the second and third fingers." 
In additio;;,, Rick introduces var­iations on the conventional open chord tuning for two reasons,"to facilitate playing and to allow for unique tones, sequences and a very fast fingering on the steel strings." Lis­tening to the classical complexity of his songs, Rick envisions "gentlemen in tailcoats and ladies in long dresses swirling in a ballroom-you can't get much more classical than that." 
A concert-opener and student of Ric~'s, Barry Stevens, a senior at Notre Dame, has established a publishing contract with Erebus Records. Barry has appeared at the Nazz. His "Lothlorien Suite" is a particularly 

Mark Ferron 
"We are not men. We are DEVO." 
Foreign policy positions of An­
derson could be communicated by 
other popular New Wave groups. The 
candidate's stance on the Soviet in­
vasion of Afghanistan could be 
stressed by the group "The Clash" 
while his support for a U.S. inter­
mediary role in the Arab-Israeli dispute 
could be sung by "The Police." And 
who could better communicate An­
derson's position on military spending 
than·"The B-52's?" 
Even the better-known energy 
policies of Candidate Anderson could 
benefit from hype by New Wave 
groups. Anderson's 50/50 gasoline 
conservation plan could be explained 
in song by the appropriate musical 
group: "The Cars." 
As much as I admired the antics of 
Patrick Lucey, the former governor of 
my home state, I'm afraid Anderson's 
choice ofhim for his running mate will 
probably not help the New Wave vote. 
Here, Anderson could have broadened 
his New Wave support if he had 
selected his Vice-Presidential can­
didate from among the ranks of the 
New Wavers. 
It was suggested to me that Mr. 
Anderson should have picked 
Deborah Harry to fill the post. I 
disagree. While a woman candidate 
may appeal to some, I'm afraid the 
country is not ready for two "Blon­
dies" on the same ticket. 
Perhaps a better VP running mate 

would have been found in !:<.!vis _Costello. His qualifications are im­
peccable: well-groomed hair, neatly 
styled clothes, large New Wave appeal. 
ButMr. Costello could have been most 
impressive in a VicePresidential de­
bate. He could have eloquently echoed 
the sentiments of a majority of 

Americans who are tired of inflation, 
the recession and the whole political 
campaign. Costello could have sung in 
that staccato voice of his," "Ican't get 
no satisfaction!" Senior Mark Ferron is a 
regular Features contributor. 
and Will Ackerman, but his own future in music is not a priority. He plays "for myself and for those who care to listen." 

Whatever the future holds for Rick Walters-more record releases and concert tours, administrative invol­vement in "the business part of the music business," or "fame by Christ­mastime,"-Rick believes his success lies in taking his audience "someplace they haven't experienced, to show them some of my feelings from a different perspective ... to somehow cause them to reflect" 
Together in the vicinity of Notre Dame, Rick WaltersandBarryStevens are pushing open that slightly-ajar door to the imaginative innovativeness ofguitar impressionism. Listen tomor­row at midnight on WSND, when Barry Stevns will have Rick Walters as 
guitar work "mellow-izes" any at­music: "A constant bass line is played striking three-movement piece, al­his guest. jane Barber and Cat Damico are mosphere, yet carefully listened to, its on the sixth, fourth, third and_second luding to Tokien literature. Barry's sophomores at Notre Dame, music fans, and complexities are impressive. The key strings of the guitar with the thumb admiration is high for Rick Walters Features writers. 
' 


• 
The Observer Saturday, September 20, 19HU-page 5 
.. . Buchanan 
Iwant to fill the bill 
Name: 

(contimJedfrom page B) 
most difficult things I've ever gone through," he recalls. "When we were winning it was bad enough, but when we were losing it was even worse. You always like to think you can help, but I was pretty helpless on crutches." 
Irish coaches and fans alike were looking forward to the 1980 season for the return of the solid fullback. But once again a somewhat less serious injury curbed his season preparation. While working out in late-July, the dedicated junior broke a bone in his right hand below the • index finger. • 
A cumbersome cast prevented him from participating in some late-summer drills. Yet the bone healed quickly arid a soft brace was designed for his tender paw. 
! "That thing" as Buchanan calls ' it, bound his index and middle ,together. ­
"I didn't care what they wrapped me up in," he says. "At least I could play." · 
But "that thing" . proved somewhat costly on one second quarter play in the Purdue con­test. Buchanan broke the 
I'm the Blue Clue!!!! 
The answer to the Blue Clue was cheerleader Nancy Dawson, who carried the homecoming package aroundall week. The winner earnedtwo tickets to the Poco concert, the Michigan game andthe Homecoming dance. The clues were, "Wonderously fair is my lady. How beautious is she!" "Her domain is in the land of the fair. Yea, her companions are qttite beautiful." "Cheer, Cheer for old Notre Dame! Wake up the echoes cheering her name!" "Of the three, she is the fairest." 




Name that penguin 
The Notre Dame athletic department, along with the Observer, has found a mascot for this season's hockey team. But we need a name and someone to fill the bill. 
Name that penguin. .. be that penguin. 
first prize is apairof season tickets for the best nickname. 
The competition lasts until Sept. 26. 
Send all applications to: The Observer Hockey Mascot 

BoxQ Notre Dame, lndlan·a Or drop.your application off at the Observer offices, fourth floor of Lafortune. 

up middle in Purdue territory and tried to fight off a Boilermaker defender with his left arm (the good one), leaving the ball alone in his right for another Purdue player to pry from his weakened hand. 
The visitors recovered on their own 31 and quickly marched down the field and cut Notre Dame's margin to 17-10. When relaxing in his Dillon Hall 
"Yea, I guess the fumble had dorm room, Buchanan can something to do with the injury," comiserate with teammate and he says with hesitation, "but suitemate Tim Huffman who that's not to say that it couldn't just had a cast removed from his have happened with two healthy foot last week. hands. It was a reflex action to push one guy off and cradle the "It was pretty sore after the ball with the other." Purdue game," he admits. "But it 
As for the ankle injury, it still definitely doesn't affect my play. bothers Buchanan somewhat, I can't even feel it when I'm but not wheq he's on the field. playing." 
(continued from page 6) 
"Coach Gallo has really helped get the program going in the right direction. He has a lot of enthusiasm and has us believing we can win." 
Gallo credits the players saying, "they have to go out there and play, and they're doing a great job. We have a fairly young team, but they have what I like to call 'Comeback Phobia.' We will win a few games because of that." 
If last Sunday is any indication of things to come, both the Irish and Bartlett will excel. He pitched three innings of no-hit ball in leading the squad to a sweep of their doubleheader. 
Bartlett's life does not revolve solely around baseball, however. 
.. .Bartlett 
He is an art major and likes to read, his favorite book being Zen and the Art rf Motorcycle Main­tenence. And although he sounds like the All-America Boy, his two roommates disagree, complain­ing that he "won't eat tuna casserole." 
As long as his dislike of tuna doesn't affect his pitching, Irish fans are not likely to hear any complaining from Coach Gallo. He and Bartlett are both looking forward to gaining a berth in the NCAA tournament next spring. 
"I think we have an excellent shot at making the tournament this year," says Bartlett. "We've got a great attitude." 
A great part of that attitude can be attributed to Bob Bartlett and his blazing fastball. 

Address:------------­Phone: 
11 Preferred skills: skating ability, entertainment ability ~~~i 
!!!!  You will be notified by phone of atryout.  ~~~~  
~  ~  
~  X  

~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::~:::~:~:;:~:~:;:::;:;:;:~:::::::~:~:::=:::::;:::::::::::::::::~:::~::::::?.:::::::::::!:::::::::~:::: 

-~------~---------------~----~----~------------------------­
. ~ 

, ~ 
, 
,r 
, 
r 
,r 
r • 
The Observer 

Catch the Fighting Irish 
~-_r\1..._____ 

in -=-.1.-=Dt:-L&Dt:C-=Y-12=­
an independent student PBJ't'r ~erving notre d.& me and st. mary's 
You don't have to attend Notre Dame to find out what is happening on campus. Just fill out the subscription form below, mail it along with remit­tance, and you can have The Observer mailed to your home. Published daily during the school week, The Observer will inform you ofcampus ard local news events, entertain you with daily editorials and features, and satisfy you with all ofthe up-to-date athletic news. 
You can receive The Observer/or the remainder ofthe academic year ior only $20 ($17 ifmailed after September 
30). Or, ifyou are only interested in 
subscn'bing for the remainder ofthe semester, you only have to send $10($7 qfter September 30). So don't miss out 
on all the action,and subscn'be now. 
Make check payable to: 
The Obse..Ver 
and mail to: 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 
46556 
Name 
Address 
City State Zip 
0 Enclosed is $20for remainder of academic year. ($17 after Sep­tember 30). Enclosed is $10for remainder of fall semester ($7 after Septem­ber 30). 
All 18btcrlpdo•• •••t be pre-paid 

Saturday, September 20, 1980 -page 6 
The Courey to Carter ,-ombination co11ld become a commonplace this season. (photo by john Macor) 

Bartlett: strong, silent type 
by Armand Kornfield Bartlett comes from a family has the talent of any pitcher on Sports Wr#er steeped in baseball tradition. His the staff, and I expect a fine year father pitched during his college from him." 
Bob Bartlett is the strong, years, and both his younger Both Gallo and Bartlett agree silent type. But when he's brothers are pitchers. In fact, on one thing-the Irish should pitching for the Irish baseball both have been approached by have a great year. Bartlett credits team, his strong side definitely major league clubs recently. Gallo for that outlook. 
Bob's reaction to offers is re­
dominates. 
freshing.

"I throw mostly fastballs with a 
(continued on page 5)
few screwballs and curves," "I think it would be great to Bartlett notes, "I love to chal­have two brothers playing in the lenge hitters, that's what makes majors. Of course, I wouldn't 
the game fun." mind playing a few games there Opposing hitters certainly myself, but I'll just have to wait didn't have any fun facing and see ifl get drafted. I haven't 
...Irish 
Bartlett last spring. He lead the been contacted yet. If nothing Irish pitching staff in strike outs comes along I'll probably go to 
(continued from page 8)
grad school." 

averaging better than one per inning, and posting an impres­Perhaps Bartlett's most valued to prove after Valparaiso de­sive 4-1 record, despite•-being trait is his ability to produce feated the late last season to under pressure. 
sidelined part of the seasss with stymie the Irish in their drive 
' It all began in 1976 when he
an ankle injury. His bRA was the towards a post-season tour­
pitched and won the AAA state nament bid.
second best among striking pitchers. championship game while a jun­"Valparaiso traditionally fields 
All of this seems to suggest ior at Shaker Heights School a pesky ball club," Gallo said. "As that the Irish can expect great near Cleveland, Ohio. His major a matter offact, whe they beat us things out oftheir senior pitcher continued last year as he won a 2-in the first game of the final 
during the upcoming year. 1 thriller against Indiana State. doubleheader last season. It was Head Coach Gallo is not short
Bartlett isn't likely to disappoint instrumental in costing us an 
on words when it comes to
anyone either. He pitched NCAA bid." 
Bartlett. "He is a great, great
during the summer, compiling a Last year, Sunday's opponent 
9~2 record, and is more op­competitor. I just can't stress Illinois-Chicago Circle belted timistic. that enough. He thrives on tight three home runs off Irish 
situations.

"I usually pitch better in the pitching in Wrigley Field. fall," says Bartlett, beginning his He loves challenge hitters, Chicago-Circle is coached by 
especially the good ones. He
fourth year as a varsity pitcher. Dick Ward, who is also the vice­
throws a football, a curve, and a
"Although I plan to stay in good chancellor. Gallo believes Ward 
screwball, and has good com­
shape and really concentrate thi5> has the Chicago-Circle program 
spring." _manrl of all three. He probably on the upswing. 

.---------~~-------------~ ---·-;;----------~------------­
--------~-----------------
TheO~=~=-=·~=-=============-=-=-~--========== 




Weekend 
Campus 
8:30 a.m., tennis, nd vs. ball state (women), courtney tennis center, free. 
9 a.m., baseball, nd vs. valparaiso, jake kline field, free. 
1:30 p.m., football, nd vs. michigan, stadium, very costly. 
8 p.m., concert, anne murray, ace, $7.50 & $8.50. 
Sunday 
1 p.m., baseball, nd vs. illinois/chi.circle, jake kline field, free. 
2 p.m., soccer, nd vs. xavier, cartier field, free. 
6:30 p.m., meeting, ob­server editorial board, free. 
7 p.m., lecture, "college to career days," carroll hall (smc), free. 


Oassifieds 
Wanted 
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS RINGS. Men's $35 · $85 and up. Free House Calls. 255·2402 
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS RINGS. Men's $35 · $85 and up. Free house calls. 255-2402. 
JUNIOR PAR~NTS WEEKEND Chairman applications now being accepled. Get appllcallons tram 1 at the Student Acllvllles Olllce ol class olllcers: MIKE 1077 MEGAN 2126 SUZI 6737 KEITH 8198 DEADLINE SEPTEMBER 21 
For Sale 
1975 Ply. Grand Fury, automatic, new !Ires, excellent condlllon. Extra deluxe features. $1500. Call to see and test drive 6106. 
'67 Cutlass Supreme PS, PB, AC, bucket seots, chrome wheels. Crulsln' machine lor $450. Call P.M. 
2~·1972 
Tickets 
NEEDED 2 ARMY G.A. TIX AND 2 MIAMI G.A. TIX. DENISE AT 118162 
DESPERATE! Need Mich. llx, student Of GA $$$$. Call Tim 7323. 
NEED 2 MSU Tlx-$$1 Call Jim 3349. 
Personals 
Clubs, Organizations, Secttons, Teams....... Get your olhlellc shirts , T· shirts , goH shirts and Jackets at reoaonoble prlcesllll Anything Prlnledlll All Colorslll Call Mark lledberg or Tlo Totaro ot 1371 

GREEN FOR .:5ALAD~ I VE"GETA5J.E5 
OLI> t€5EF{T5 AND 54LAD DP.£55/NC:.S BFt:WN FoR HEArS ,cHoc.OLAT~HILK AND .54LAD f>N:.55JN&5. PLJJ5 ~ 
HOR£!! 
Peanuts 
-
Saturday, September 20, 1980-page 7 




MIX GP.EDJ AIJD OP,.4J.X:,E cxmAc.r Til£ Y£LLiJW AND YOV HAV£ PLUHS. 


The Daily Crossword 
All Rights Reserved 

~==IheDbserver========~ 
WE NEED DESIGN ASSISTANTS: WednesdayI&Thursday
Paid Position · · 
(If you're responsible) Late Night Work Call JOHN at 8661 
ACROSS 29 Dental 49 LOI'IJ'Iegged 23 Law man 1 Kind of thread wading bird school 30 SpeclaHy 50 Beet 24 
=:-' 
5 Alt cult Bell 55 Puerto-25 FCIId'a run­
9 Per-31 From a 58 Sharif ning mate 13 Scoria dlatanc:e 58 -lime 28 Inter­14 Heroic tale 32 Military (_, '0 Bak_.y 15 H11111hey's lite 59 Deepota productl 
state: abbr. 36 False 60 Comoor 28 Mailing 16 "EAodus" statements Placid unit 
author 37 Knowing 61 Destroy 31 Kind ol 17 Large book smile 62 Parted with ICid 18 Respond to 36 Adams lor a price 33 JIWilh 19 Stench 39 Far or Near 63 Colored month 21 Leisurely 40 Pleasant 84 Flooring 34 Painter 
walk 41 Small drum Joan 
22 Off the 42 In unison DOWN 35 Ha-'-d beaten 44 Customer 1 Desirable 37 Proboacia path 45 Pound the object 41 Chlllcedony 
25 Trtm gavel 2 -avis 43 Brltltfl 3 Wicked 
QUill Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 4 El-44 Lookelt 

5 Roundabout cloMiy way 45 Wheeled 6 On the lett ~ 
side: naut. 46 Dllpltch 7 Indistinct boll 8 Tennis 47 Slow train 
point 46 Male duck 9 Waning 51 Trading 10 Under one's center 
charge 52 NMCIIe case 11 -Gay 53 Indigo 12 VIrile 54 Deal Of 15 LaMS poarn 20 CauHS 58 Aged 21 Long-billed 57 Flower 
bird Of lly 
-----------~~------~-~-­

Saturday, September 20, 1980 -page 8 
Buchanan bounces back after ankle injury 
by Michael Ortman Associate Sports Editor . 

Murphy's Law: If something can go wrong, it will go wrong. Murphy's Corollary: ...and at the worst possible time. Mr. Murphy, meet Pete Buchanan. 
The Plymouth, Ind., native was cruising along on top of the world for the first 18 years ofhis life. A gridiron superstar at Plymouth High School, Buch­anan came to South Bend having never suffered a serious injury during his career. But a pair of poorly-timed pre-season injudes before his second and third Irish seasons have slowed his col­legbte progress dramatically. 
The highly touted running back's dream came true when Notre Dame came seeking his services. You see, Pete Buchan­an and Notre Dame go together like the bookstore and alums on homecoming weekend. 
Having grown up just 25 miles from South Bend, it's easy to see why Buchanan's life would have been saturated with Irish football folklore and Victory Marches. 
After a spectacular senior year at Plymouth in which he wracked up a whopping 2,255 yards and 30 touchdowns, Buchanan just became another former high school superstar on the Irish roster. During his freshman season, Buchanan joined Jim Stone, Ty Barber, Bernie Adell and Pete Pallas in the flexible Irish backfield behind the record-setting duo of Vagas ferguson andJerome Heavens. 
The 6-3, 220-pound Buchanan saw more and more activn as the . season progressed, finishing the season with 67 yards on 22 carries and two touchdowns, one of which will be remembered for years to come, especially by the fullback himself. 
That one-yard scoring blast came in the '79 regular-season finale in the Los Angeles Col­iseum against none other than Southern Cal. The Irish were in the midst of one of their paten­ted miracle comebacks. 
"That moment sticks out in my mind more than any other," smiles Buchanan. "It meant so much to me to know that the coaches had enough faith in me to give me the ball in that situation." 
"That situation" came late in the fourth quarter with the rallying Irish trailing 24-12. A Joe Mon­tana-led drive from the Notre Dame two yard line had gotten the Irish inside the USC five. On Buchanan's first attempt up the middle, he failed. A few plays later, it was Buchanan again, but this time the result was quite <lifferent. 
"When I didn't get in the first 1ime," he recalls, "I thought that [ had blown my big chance. But when the coaches gave me an­other chance, there was nobody who could have kept me out of the end zone." 
When the football team re­assembled in August, Buchanan was inked in as the starting h llback. But in the final intra­syuad scrimmage before the 1979 opener in Ann Arbor, Buchanan's right foot zigged and he zagged. The result: A badly .Jroken ankle which required surgery and sidelined him for the :;eason. 
''Watching every game in jeans, sneakers and a cast instead of pads and cleats was one of the 
(contin11ed on page 5) 

There was nobody who could have kept me out rfthe end zone--Pete Buchanan. 
Irish to contest Valpo, ICC at home this weekend 
by TJave Irwin Sports Writer 
The Irish baseball team faces Valparaiso this morning at 9 a.m. and then tackles Illinois-Chicago Circle in a doubleheader, be­ginning at 1 p.m. Sunday. All games will be played on Jake Kline Field. 
The Irish opened their fall season last weekend by sweeping 
Hoops! 

Good times at the Rock 
The first thing you notice about the.gym on the third floor ofthe Rockne Memorial Building is the smell. 
Sweat... 

45 years ofsweat; ofspare time and study breaks and frustration and memories of Friday nights in high school. "Gonna play some hoops at the Rock." 
At the Rock. 
Rock ball. 

The yellowed wooden courts aren't in the best of ~hape. But they're good enough. Or, at least they sound good as a million billion basketballs bounce-wump,wump,wump,wump-off the to~ waxed surface in the four or five pick-up games going on at any one time during the day. 
Like the one being played at the far end of the· gym. Five-on-five for a little bit of fun and a little bit of practice. · 
Practice? 

Seven of the ten players in this particular game will spend most of their winter playing for real, under the watchful eyes of Digger Phelps and 11,345 fans {assuming, that is, they all show up.) There's Tracy Jackson and Orlando Woolridge, Stan Wilcox andJohn Paxson, Mike Mitchell and Kevin Hawkins and newcomer, Tom Sluby. Oh, and one former player, Tim Healy, who usually finds an hour or two's respite from the law books here. Real practice-with uniforms, trainers and plenty of yelling-does not start until October 
15. But this is the time to get ready. To try that 20­foot jumper that might beat Indiana or that 180­slam that brings the crowd to its feet. 
'Jackson throws up a prayer!" 

But it may not be answered until January...or February... 
Frank LaGrotta 
Or March. 
This is the place that dreams are made in 
autumn, and mistakes are atoned for in the spring. 
"Jwerybody's looking real good right now," points outTracyJackson, a late-comer forced to sit this game out. 
These games have no officials, but fouls are called-and contested. 
"They're not really arguing," assures Woolridge. "It's just that there's a lot of good players out there and a lot of personal pride at stake." 
When Woolridge gets back into the game he takes a pass from Wilcox and sends a patented slam-dunk rocketing through the hoop. 
Uncontested. 
"Orlando's playing great right now," says Sluby, who draws a few compliments himself with precision passes and an unbridled willingness to "take the ball to the hoop." 
Players take this time to criticize each other, help each other, learn each other's moves. "Look at Paxson," whistles Sluby. ''I'm tellin' you that boy can play." 
"It's just that we want to win it real bad this year," explains Jackson. "And I really think we can." 
So, by the way, do his teammates. 
They wouldn't be here if they didn't. 
Indiana State. The Irish dis­played a potent attack, scoring 13 runs and banging out 16 hits. They also showed an improved pitching staff as first year coach Larry Gallo used nine different pitchers who combined to limit an excellent Sycamore club to six runs and 11 hits. Gallo was particularly pleased with senior Bob Bartlett, who pitched three innings of no-hit ball in the second game before being re­lieved, and junior Tom Conroy. 
"Both of them did a fine job," Gallo said. "It was encouraging to see their breaking balls stay down." 
SeniorJim Montagano was the hitting star, going two-for-three, including a triple, and drove in three runs in the ope{\er. 
The Irish made just one field­ing error, but did have two runners picked otT first and failed to advance the runner twice when Gallo ordered the sacrifice bunt. Overall, though, the Irish appear to be a sound club and Gallo was pleased with the fall opener. 
"The way the team responded to losing a lead was shades of last year. I knew we would come back (the Irish trailed 5-3 in the sixth of last week's opener before rallying) and win and that's important," Gallo said. "This is a closely-knit team and when the returning lettermen responded it just naturally became con­tageous to the entire club." 
Valparaiso has 20 lettermen returning from last year's 16-15 dub. 
The Irish will have something 
(continued on page 6) 

Mike Couret will direct the Irish offense today in Notre Dame Stadium against the Michigan Wolvertizes. Game time is 1:30p.m. (photo by john Macor) 



