----------------------~------------------------~-----­
, , , Mock Convention -Page 4 

Mock Convention debates, hears presentations 
by Tom 0 'Toole four-year term, calling our for­eign policy "embarrassing," The 1980 Mock Republican our defense "pathetic," and Convention began its second the country's abortion laws 
night yesterday with debate on "grotesque." He stressed that platform issues and presenta­the current-world situation is tions by a presidential cand­too dangerous for the country to idate and two candidates' rep­survive another four years of resentatives. what he called ''on the job­Former Minnesota governor training in the presidency.'' 
Harold Stassen addressed the Notre Dame students, he delegates in his campaign, said, are now experiencing the while Illinois Representative "idiocy of government over­
Henry Hyde spoke for Ronald regulation in the case of Title IX."
Reagan and Dr. George Crane spoke for his son, Illinois Rep­Hyde does not see Reagan's resentative Phil Crane. age as a problem in the 
'the delegates also began campaign. "Reagan is 69," he debate on the Convention plat­said, ''but some of the greatest form, concentrating early this leaders in the recent history of morning on domestic issues. the world were rulers in their 
Platform discussion began senior years, including Winston 
slowly, as the delegates took Churchill, Charles DeGaulle, approximately 30 minutes to Mao Tse Tung and even Dwight change the wording of its Eisenhower.'' preface from ''the students of Former Minnesota governor 
Bzll Siminski ofWNDU-TV instructs senior Mike Frailey in the fine art ofusing a minicam in 
Notre Dame" to "the students 
[continued on page 3] Telecommunications class [Photo by Tim McKeoghJ
of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's." 
The first speaker, Rep. Hen­ry Hyde of Illinois, spoke on behalf o former California gov­ernor Ronald Reagan. 
Stassen brings 'quiet' campaign to N.D.
''There is more interest and less apathy in voters than ever before," he said. "But there's 
byJohn M, McGrath in dishing out some lively ahead and did it and at the
also less margin for error and Senior StaffReporter criticism of Carter Administra­Stassen described his vision 
same time ordered U.S. Ma­of the Republican parry as a
no time for mistakes. We need tion policies. 
rines not to use teargas to 
a person with intuition and Former Minnesota Governor ''The biggest worry in my defend the embassy. The conservative, humanitanan, 
and progressive party. ''You
experience. Our country des­Harold Stassen brought his mind as I come here to Notre whole situation needs investi­have got to fit those threeperately needs a new admin­"quiet but solid" presidential Dame is the shift in Carter gation,'' Stassen insisted. 
together and you'll have a goodIstration which will lead us campaign to Notre Dame. The Administration on foreign poli­''The whole business is a bad policy.''
safely into the 1990s." 74 year-old Republican, run­cy from being too soft to being example, and when you add-it The Minnesota Republican,
Hyde criticized President ning in hi~ fifth presidential too beligerant, '' Stassen told on to the recent problem of our who first ran for president in· Carter's performance in his race, wasted no time, however, reporters at an afternoon press confused Israeh-Arab position 
1948, said his main base of
conference at the Morris Inn. 
in the United Nations just the support comes from indepen­
"We need a stable steady 
other day, and you just have a dents, farmworkers, and wor­
course in foreign affairs, but 
partial breakdown in the effec­king class people. 

Administration delays 
the course Carter is taking is 
tive functioning of our govern­one that is not wise and is ment. It's very serious," he [continued on page 5]
dangerous," he commented. said. 

1minorsports' decision 
Stassen was on campus to address the Mock ·Republican 

The administration has not made a decision on the future of Notre Convention. Besides servingDame minor sports, although student rumors indicated yesterday three terms as Minnesota Gov­
Soph literary Festival 
that hockey had been "saved." ernor, Stassen was the Director 
Intormed student sources intimated yesterd<~.y that the of Foreign Operations under administration may allow the hockey program to keep at least President Eisenhower, was one 

promises 'fun 'time
some of its 20 scholarships. But Executive Vice President Fr. of the signers of the United Edmund Joyce said that tht> administration's proposal to comply Nations charter, and is a former 
by Pam Degnan Instead we decided to contact
with Title IX is ''still under President of the University of Senior StaffReporter people who we felt were blazingFr. Joyce and other administrators are working on an overall Pennsylvania. 
new trails in every phase of thesports proposal to bring Notre Dame in compliance with Title IX, Admittedly, Stassen has not A fun-house of the minds -a literary genre," Kreitzbergan HEW regul;:uion calling for proportionate funding of male and done well in the early primaries s_piraling exploration of the said.
female collegiate sports. ·. he; was entered in Vermont and ltterary worlds. _ The 1980 Each artist is expected toJoyce said he hopes to have a decision by April 1, but no deadline Massachusetts--but this has not Sophomore Literary Festival_ host a formal workshop but hashas been imposed for release of the administration's plan. dimmed his determination. He promises to be this and much the option of conducting anJoyce met Wednesday with hockey coach Charles ''Lefty'' Smith, called the Republican nomina­more, according to Doug informal student workshop.
to discuss the hockey program, but neither person would disclose tion race a "marathon steeple­Kreitzberg, the festival's chair-Some authors are scheduled to
the results of the meeting. chase'' still in its early stages, man. -sit in on various classes, accor­Notre Dame currently allots the National Collegiate Athletic and expressed hope that his ''Notre Dame is so saturated ding to Kreitz berg. 
Association maximum of 20 hockey scholarships. Title IX requires lu~k m~ght improve in the later with sports and academic excel­"These authors aren't gods ­the University to provide a proportionate number of male and pnmanes. 
lence. This festival offers each they're not divinely inspired.
female athletic scholarships, and it is expected that some minor His also-ran record hasn't student a chance to expand the They're just human beingssports scholarships may be transferred to women to comply with dulled _his displeasure so far mind," Kreitz berg said. "Be­putting some kind of expression
the regulation. . with current u.s.. plicies. 
sides it's a festival -plenty of into an art form,'' KreitzbergNotre lJame allots no female athletic grants-in-aid at present. "From the information I've parties.'' 
explained.
When the administration's plan is completed, it will probably be gotten in my ivestigation, I The week-long event will John Barth, the author of thepresented to the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees, char~e that Hamilton ;ordon feature such prominent literary highly acclaimed book, Letters,
who must approve the plan for it to take effect. ­(Whtte House Chief o Staff) figures as David Hare, John will open the festival with aThe full Board of Trustees will meet at the University in May, bu and Zbigniew Bryzezinski (Na­Barth and John Auerbach. reading on Sunday at 8:30p.m.
the plan will probably be presented to the Executive committee tional Security Advisor) provo­Although the festival re­in the Library Auditorium.
before then, according to administration sources. ked and permitted the taking ceived severe budget cuts by Barth, who is presently anThe Executive Committee released a statement on Feb. 26 calling ove r of the embassy and the student government officials English professor at]ohn Hop­on the administration to provide for the needs of Notre Dame's hostages," Stassen said. 
last semester, Kreitzberg ex­kins, will conduct a workshopfemale athletes. The committee acknowledged that such action ''They were advised by com­plained that "monetary negoti­on Monday at 10 a.m. in the may "result in some curtailment, over time, in one or more ·petent people that bringing the ations have been ironed out.'' Library Lounge. 
existing sports programs at Notre Dame,'' although theyt said that Shah into this country would "We (the committee) did not
"every effort should be exerted" to keep as many of the minor cause the taking of the embas­have exorbitant amounts of [continued on page 6J sports as possible sy. But they nevertheless went money to play around with. 

--------~ -----------------------------------­

<:&111J'-ll~S~------+------------------m_·~_y,_M_um__7,_l~__-P_~e_2 
Friday, Much7 

12:15{'m BIOLOGY DEPT. TRAVELOGUE, "a close look--m.;;ects and other small creatures," dr. stephen sims, nd, GALVIN AUD. 
1-3pm EXHIBITION , .;;rudent photography exhibition, ISIS GALLERY. 
1:30pm TRACK MEET, notre dame v.;; iowa, A.C.C. FIELDHOUSE. 
2pm MASS, .;;pon.;;: friends of the mentally retarded and l'arche, MOREAU. 
4:30pm REILLY LECTURE, "glycoprotein.;; in fertilization and embryonic development," prof. william j. lennarz, 123 NIEUWLAND, spon.;;: chemistry dept. 
5: .l5pm MASS & SUPPER, BULLA SHED, .;;pons: campus mtmstry. 
7pm BENEDICTION AND STATIONS OF THE CROSS, .>pons: alumni hall, ALUMNI HALL CHAPEL. 
7, 9:15 & l1:30pm FILM, "a man for all sea.;;ons" ENGR. AUD . .>pon.;: student union. admissions $1. 
7, 9, llpm FILM, "pat and mike" CARROLL HALL SMC, .>pon.>: student act, programming board, $1. 
7pm MOCK CONVENTION, keynote talk rev. donald f. .>hea, c.pp..;;., republican nat'! committee; campaign address george bu . .;h, jr., son of candidate george bu.>h, followed by prestdemial nomination.>, STEPAN CENTER. 
8pm CONCERT, john michael talbot, LIBRARY AUD. .>pons: spiritual rock. 
8pm NAZZ, mu.>ic competition, NAZZ. 
8pm STUDENT FASHION SHOW, spons: black cultural am festival, MONOGRAM ROOM* A.C.C. 
8pm ND!SMC THEATRE, "teeth 'n' smiles" O'LAUGHLIN AUD. 
Saturday, March 8 
llam SEMINAR, "religion & the .>lave family," prof. albert 
j. raboteau, u. of calif. berkley, 600 MEMORIAL LIBRARY, spons: ctr. for the study of american catholicism. 
l-3pm PANEL DISCUSSION, thir~ annual al~mnae seminar, past nd women grads from a vanety of maJors, spons: nd advisory council for women students, LIBRAR?:' .AUD. reception following in LIBRARY LOUNGE. no admtsston. 
2pm MOCK CONVENTION'· talk--~ongr.essman. dan Iundgren of calif., and vote for vtce prestdenttal candtdate, STEPAN CENTER. 
7, 9, llpm FILM, "adams rib" CARROLL HALL SMC, spon.>: .>tud. act. programming board, $1. 
7, IOpm FILM, "patton," ENGR. AUD. spons: student u. 
$1. 

"1111fn FILM, "gharonda," LIBRARY AUD. spons: india a.>soctatton. 
8pm CONCERT, tom ch~pi.n, LITTLE THEATRE SMC, .>pon.>: .>tudent gov't. admtsston $3. • 
8pm NAZZ, five winners of the nazz music competition, NAZZ. 
9:30pm CONCERT, tom chapin, LITTLE THEATRE SMC, .>pon.>: .>tudent gov't. admission $3. 

Sunday, March 9 
7pm MEETING, an to.>tal staff meeting, LAFORTUNE 
THEATEH. 

8pm DISCUSSION & LECTURE, inspirational women in .>cripture.>, sr. kaye o' neil, .>pons: women's opportunit} week, SMC CLUBHOUSE. 
8pm TALK & DISCUSSION, sharing in the pasch of Christ, jame.> finley, .>pons: sacred heart parish, third in a series of five, CRYPT OF SACRED HEART CHURCH. 
8pm SOPH. LITERARY FESTIVAL, john barth--novelist & 
author of "letter.>" MEM. LIBRARY AUD. 
Hpm PRESENTATION, philosophy meet your major--fresh­man .>potlight, philosophy .>taff, LIBRARY LOUNGE, free of charge. 
8pm ORGAN RECITAL, judy hancock, SACRED HEAR1 
CHURCH. 

r-~~--~~-------------------------------------­
Highs today in the upper 30s and the low 40s, and a 70 percent chance of snow. 
• 
by KeUi Flint Senior StaffReporter 
A reformed alcoholic, identi­fied as David (who is a senior at Notre Dame), addressed an Alcohol Awareness Workshop last ni~ht in the Haggar Hall auditonum. The workshop, SP.onsored by theJudicial Coun­cll, was run in cooperation with the Department of Psychologi­cal Services. 
David's drinking experience began at the age of sixteen, with his father's approval. "At first I only drank on weekends, but I later became involved with work, and didn't have the time to drink with friends anymore,'' David said. "Since I couldn't drink on weekends, 1.began to 
·drink in school. My employer bought my first bottle of booze !or me," he admitted. 



Erratum 
Grace Hall would like to make a correction announcing the speech of Sr. Jean Lenz. Lenz will speak Tuesday, March 11, not Thursday, March B. 


Erratum 
The Reagan committee an­nounced last Wednesday to the Observer that Representative Henry Hyde would not be able to attend the Receptin for Reagan that was held yesterday at 5 p.m. in La Fortune. The Observer apologizes for not correcting this error in yester­day's paper. 
~The Observer_ 
•Night Bdrtor: Margaret Kruse Asst. Night Editor: Mary Kasper, Mike Monk Copy Editor: Mary Fran Callahan Layout Staff Lois Kennedy, Joel Annable Neil O'Brien News Editor: Mike Lewis Editorial Layout: Ann Gales Features Layout: Molly Woulfe Sports Layout: Beth Huffman Typists: Carol (Hi 'Wall!) Cornwall, Kathy Murray, Cindy Jones, Carol Shu back, Liz Huber EMT just the Shag Proofreader: Dan Ryan, John Uohn B. represents me... ) Chausee 
SMC Day Editor: Kate Huffman Photographer: Tim Mc­Keogh Guest Appearances: Ryan I "Bowen-who?" VerBerk­moes, Patsy "Shotgun" Campbell, Tom "Flick My Bic'' Schuster 
The Observer [USPS 511 920] is published Monday through Frldly u­up1 during exam 1nd vacatiln periods. The Observer is publlsllld by the students rrl Notre 011111 _. Sai1rt Mlrv's Cllllgl. Sublcr1plillls lillY Ill purdllsld lor $211 per year l$11 per llllllltlrjlrom The Observer. P.O. blx 
0. Nitre Dlllll, llldiiRI 41556. Secllld elliS =fllld, N8tre Dlllll, Ill· 
diiRI . 
The Observer is 1 l!lllllblr If 1111 Assocllted Pl'lll. AH iljiildldllll rights lrl i'lllmd. 
~~---~-~-­


Atworkshop 

Reforllled ND alcoholicspeaks out 
David lost control of the quantity of alcohol he drank during his junior year of high school. ''I began drinking straight alcohol to get the effects of it more quickly. I didn't drink for pleasure any longer. I just wanted to get drunk." 
When David realized his prob­lem, he went to a counselor. "I went dry for three months, and by senior year I was a controlled drinker," David said. "I realized that I had a problem, and decided to quit drinking for colle~e." 
Davtd resumed his drinking second semester of his fresh­man year. "I began drinking on weekends to socialize, " he said. "I then began drinking on weekdays. I didn't cause any trouble when I was drunk, so I wasn't reported to the rector or 
R.A. I usually passed out by 8 p.m." 
After first semester of his sophomore year, David joined 
Alcoholics  Anonymous.  He  
cited  the  attitude  of  Notre  
Dame  students  as  a  maJor  

reason for the drinking prob­lems among them. "Most students drink in order to get drunk,'' David said. ''The intention is not to have a few social drinks when a student goes our with friends to the bars," he explained. 
Peggy Cronin, a counselor with psychological services, noted that the University's image invites heavy drinking. ''The image of the fighting Insh stands for heavy drinking,'' Cronin said. "Of all of the problem drinkers that I have dealt with in the past five years, the Notre Dame experience has nourished their problem.'' 
Tom Rudy, a student intern with psychological services, ex­plained the importance of the term "enabling" at the work­shop. "Enabling is taking care 
of the consequences of alcohol­ism so that the drinker can't see the problems resulting from his drinkin~," Rudy said. "En­abling 1mpowers a person to continue drinking,'' Rudy said. David cited his boss in high school, his roommates, and his 
R.A. as enablers. "My room­mates and RA said nothing about my drinking," David said. ''They only complained when I drank during the week. They still say that I didn't really have a drinking problem." 
David added that lack of activities on campus,'' he said. ''I'm never bored on weekends, and I don't drink. Students choose to drink. I've seen students bring alcohol and pot to movies and concerts here," he observed. 
Jim O'Hare, judicial coordi­nator, and John Gechwind, special projects commissioner hosted the Jrogram. "I was disappointe by the represen­tation of the halls," O'Hare said. ''Only ten halls were represented. I was pleased by the cooperation of the depart­ment ofPsychological Serv1ces. ''The materials shown by Dr. Pelligrini were good, and should be considered for use in the halls.'' 
Dr. Pelligrini is a clinical psychologist with the psycho­logical services. 


An Tostal meets Sunday 
An Tostal staff meets Sunday at 7 p.m. in LaFortune's Little Theater. All members must attend. 

en Sunday Masses at 
cai'I)P.JS
miniStry 

Sacred Heart Church 
5:15p.m Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:00a.m. Sunday Rev. John Van Wolvlear, C.S.C. 
10:30 a.m Sunday Rev. Austin Fleming 12 15 p.m. Sunday Rev William Toohey, C.S.C. 
7:15p.m. Vespers Rev. Austin Fleming 

JUntors: stgn up for the • junior class mixed doubles pool tournament finals at Nickies 
-~~D@~~~~aaaaaaaaaaw~~
i 1st prize-$25.00 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a~~~~~~~d 
to regtster your team, call pam at 7303 or go to the secretary at student activities in Iafortune. 
leave your names and phone nos. for more info: call donna at 7933 or tom at 1189 

The Observer Fr!claf, March', 1980-page 3 
• • • Convention 
When all else fatls, try osmosis [Photo by Tim McKeogh] 
...,-~ 

========================== 
Lewis Hall aids mother 
byEar/Rix 

Lewis Hall residents, in con­junction with the South Bend Justice and Peace Center, are assisting a young unwed mo­
• ther and her newborn baby. The girls are providing for­mula, diapers, bottles, and other infant needs, as well as clothing for both mother and child. The center has referred the mother and infant to the appropriate social welfare a­gencies, and has provided them with a place to stay. The mother recently arrived in South Bend and was forced to quit her job shortly before the birth of her child. She was running out of money and living in a motel before she turned to the Center for help. One of the ftrst things the Center did was to show her where to ftnd free medical help. After the Center discovered that no government assistance was immediately available, they found housing for her. About this time, Kathy Bego, community services director for Lewis Hall, contacted the Cen­ter and ~res~~ desire to sponsor a family in conjunction with Lent. The girls started preparing for the baby's birth and the baby arrived three and one j:y,ljfweeks early on Feb. 22. Bego and Sue Fleck, also of Lewis, are currently coordina­ting the efforts of about fifteen Lewis women who are actively involved in the effort to help the young mother and child. A great deal of clothing ;has already been donated for-the mother and $75 which was donated at mass last Sunday was spent on necessities for the baby. · The girls are currently shopping for a crib and clothing for the baby and soliciting contributions from within the Hall. The Center, located at 136 South Chapin Street in South Bend, is manned by a Holy Cross priest, sister, and brother along with several volunteers who specialize in refernng: of people who ask them-for assis­tance. 
Rita Kopczynski, a worker at the center, said, "The woman couldnt believe that the girls were so generous. Sometimes it seems what we're doing are band-aid cures, but people need help to survive and get on to the next day and we're there. 
The students came into a real 
situation and could do some good. They showed the woman that there can be a little bit of hope, and some things that were positive," she said. 
Kopczynski added that for the students the young mother represented "a situation out there that we usually don't see.'' 
Earlier in the year, Sarin students srent several week-· ends paintmg the center. 
Maura Baker, rector of Lewis Hall, expressed pride in her students. "When the members of a dorm unite in order to reach out to fulfill the needs of others they are engaging in a most significant activity." 
Baker added, "It's a gesture 
that comes out of our liturgy 
and it is especially nice when 
it's tied to our liturgical celeb­
ration. I'm at the same time 
grateful and humbled by the 
willin~ness of students to be 
attentive to the needs of other 
people," she concluded. 


Negotiations resutne today in Colotnbia 
BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (AP) -Guerrillas holding the Domin­ican Republic Embassy freed one hostage, and a government official said face-to-face nego­tiations would resume today on , guerrilla demands for the re­le~se of 311 alleged political pnsoners. 
Austrian Ambassador Edgar Selzer, freed because his wife was gtavely ill, appeared healthy when he changed planes in Caracas, but told a JOurnalist he had not eaten in eight days, the Venezuelan state news agency reported. 
Rudolf Lenhart, First Secret­ary at the Austrian Embassy, said Selzer, 47, "was freed for humanitarian reasons be~se his wife is dying in Vienna. 
His release leaves 14 am­
bassadors or acting ambass­
adors in the embassy, including 
U.S. Ambassador Diego Hsen­cio, plus an undetermined ­number of other hostages. An estimated 29 guerrillas, one of them wounded, are in the building. 
Foreign Minister Diego said the government would ·resume face-to-face negotiations with 
[continued from page 1) 
Harold Stassen quickly won the delegates approval when. he 
opened his talk by calling this "the outstanding college mock convention in the country." 
Stassen drew an ovation from the delegates, saying, "In my uphill battle for the Republican nomination, nothing could be more appropriate than starting out on the campus of the "Fighting Irish" of Notre Dame,'' adding that he had just come from the ACC where he ''breathed a little of the super­charged air that inspired Notre Dame in its upset of DePaul.'' 
Stassen said that, although he believes in a strong and alert defense, he also believes a sound foreign policy and volun­teer reserves are adequate, and o_pposes a compulsory peace-
must. this power

with the Congress so that no 
mistaken shortcuts in foreign
policy can occur, and so that our youth can be free to make plans for the future,'' he said. 
He added that the numbers 
of v~s:iteer servicemen have 
been1~Jdecreasing because 
''They have been discouraged 
from doin_g what they have been 
trained for." He pointed to 
Carter's decision to halt con­
struction of the B-1 bomber as 
an example of this discourage­
ment. 
The last speaker, Dr. George 
Crane, affirmed the merits of 
Republicanism in general rath­
er than speaking directly about 
his son, Rep. Phil Crane. He 
did refute the other candidates 
positions of age and exper­
ience, highlighting his son 
ience, highlighting his son's 
youth and charisma. 
"All the Repub_lican candid­
ates are good men,'' Crane 
said, "but we need someone 
who appeals to the ten million 
voters who don't know one 
issue from another.'' These 
voters generally decide in the 
week before the election on the 
basis of television appearances. 
We need someone who looks 
the leftists today. 
"The third round of convers­ations will take place to­morrow,'' he told reporters as he left the presidential palace last night after meeting with President Julio Turbay Ayala. 
Freshmen party tomorrow 
The Freshman Advisory Council is sponsoring a Fresh­man Class Party tomorrow from 10 P.M. until 1 A.M. in the LaFortune Ballroom. The cost of admission is $2 to help defer the cost of the upcoming Fresh· man Formal. Tickets may be purchased from the Freshmar. Advisory Council representa· rive from your dorm. Refresh· ments will be served and music will be provided by a disc jockey from WRBR. All members of the Class of 1983 are welcome. 

good in the living room," he said. 
"Phillip is also one of the first to stress that our alleg­iance is the only one that mentions the deity,'' said Crane, as he was being issued from the platform because of lack of time. 
Slow deliberations and hag­gling marked the platform de­bates. After the preface word­ing --change, the delegates took over two hours to debate and pass an amendment not to support ''further research and development of the neutron bomb." 
The amendment passed by a 511 to 486 vote. 
By the time this amendment 
had passed, the majority of the 
delegates were streaming out 
the doors, and probably no 
more than one-third of the 
convention remained by mid­
night. At this point, confusion 
set in. 

Interpretations of "Robert's 
. Rules of Order," the official rules of the convention, varied widely and changed often, over whether or not a quorum ex­isted. At approximately 1 a.m., Chairman Kresse declared that a quorum did exist and further quorum calls would be out of order. 
However, during a vote on a capital punishment amendment at close to 2 a.m., another quorum call was requested. 
Kresse's interpretation at this point changed, and after protest froq;t a majority of the remaining delegates, Kresse declared that a quorum did not exist and closed the convention at approximately 2:15 a.m. 
Consideration of the platform will continue tonight, prior to all speakers and the vote on the presidential candidates, and the vote on the presidential 
• candidates, and the major dif­ferences on the issues between the candidates are expected to be brought out at this time. 

Attention All JUNIORS!! I 
Make your appointment for youryearbook portrait today. 
'CALL 3557, or stop by lC Lafortune, off the ballroom. 
THERE WILL BEA $1.00 SITTING FEE· 
IT IS IMPORTANT THAT All JUNIORS MAKE THEIR APPOINTMENTS IMMfOIATELYII PI_EASE DO iT NOW 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------­
The Observer Friday, March 7, 1980-page 4 
Campaign '80 

THEMcNALLYPOLL 
Asked of Mock Convention delegates: Who is your first

Baker-withdra-ws froni race 
choice for Republican presidential nominee? 
30%

by Tim Vercellotti the ) immy Carter book of the only alternative for main Bush 
Anderson 27%

StaffReporter politics. Last summer, while line moderate Republicans,'' Undecided 17% we were beginning to organize, Arnold stated. Reagan 14% Lack of time was the major the other campaigns were Ford 5%
He concern 5%
factor in the failure of Senator churning away," Lamkin sta­also expressed Crane 
with the overall Republican Stassen 1%Howard Baker's bid for the ted. 
Simon 1%
race for the White House.

presidency according to Martha Another cause for Baker's ''There is something to worryLamkin, executive director of retirement from the Republican about here. It is the middle of
Baker's Indiana campaign. race was a lack of money. Ask'!d ofMock C?~vention delegates: Who is your second 
· the campaign, and we seem to
What we see is that you have Lamkin .Pointed out the Cam­chotce for Republzcan preszdential nominee? 
be awarding points not on theto be a full time candidate," paign Fmance Law sets a limit basis of skills, but on ability to Undecided 26%
Lamkin stated. She pointed out on the amount of money that a 22%
maximize dollars, and to ·speak Bush 
that Baker's position as Minori­candidate can receive from Anderson 17%
single voters," Ford
ty Leader in the Senate involves individual contributors. to issue the 11% 
government professor said. Reagan 9%a good deal of his time. This Lack of organization also Llody Burke, coordinator of Crane 7%
prevented the Tennessee sena­played a part in the downfall of Baker 4%
Baker's campus campagin, re­

tor from beginning an active Baker's efforts, according to Stassen 2%
ported that there was some Pressler
campaign until early Novem­both Lamkin and Arnold. 1% 
student interest in the Tennes­Fernandez 1%
ber. Arnold called the Senate Minor­see Republican. He also statedProfessor Peri Arnold, chair­ity Leader's supporters an "in­
man of the and that Baker's name will still be As the .Republican Mock The poll, conducted between
Government effective orgamzation,'' saying 
placed in nomination for Presi-8:30 ?Ji30 on
International Studies Depart­that the campaign wasn't well Convention at Notre Dame en-and p.m: the 
dent at the Mock Convention, tered the first night of serious convention t~r, indicates thatment at Notre Dame, concurred· run_. Lamkin disagreed in part, despite his non-candidate sta-debate yesterday, a random the Notre Dame/Saint Mary'swith Lamkin's observation. saymg that the Indiana cam­tus. "The objective of the survey conducted after the con-electorate is as volatile as their''His opponents, Bush and paign was ''very well put convention is to choose ';Vhom _elusion of the campaign addres­national counterparts, whereConnally. can be full time together." She conceded, how­we think is the best''persori for "'J·ses indicates that none of the George Bush, Ronald Reagan,
politicians , while Baker has ever, that the national organiza­thenomination, '' Burke said. candidates commands enough
respons1bllities in the Senate. tion was not coordinated as andJohn Anderson have conse-
He pointed out that other support to win on the firstBaker .J.:Ould not spend twelve well. 
non-candidates, such as Willi-ballot. [continued on page 6]hours on the chicken dinner Arnold expressed disappoint­am E. receiving
circuit in New Hampshire," ment with Baker's pullout, Simon, were 
support from students. Burke
Arnold said. referring to him as ''the most also recalled that the lateLamkin explained that be­promising character in the Re­Hubert Humphrey, while not a Stassen makes sixth bidcause Baker started so late, he publican race." 
canditlate, received the nomin­could not get a broad enough ''The real misfortune of all of ation at the 1976 Mock Conven­base of support. ''The other this is that aside from Repre­

at Presidency
tion.

campaigners were working by sentative Anderson, Baker was Both Lamkin and Burke poin­
ted out that Baker has expres­by john M. McGrath It's been a long time since sed no interest in a possible Senior StaffReporter the name Stassen grabbed front vice-presidential spot on the page headlines. Former Gover­
FRIDAY MARCH 7 1989 

Republican ticket. "I don't nor of Minnesota from 1938-43, 
),)Q P.H. 

G~orza 3~s~. Jr arrives ~D cat:tpus. 
think he would take the vice­The press conference was 'nt Signer of the U.N. Charter, 
4,00 P.M. 

presidency, he has a pretty liie the ones they show on T.V. Director of Foreign Operations 
~~::: ~~~~ fe~~~d! da~:~rf~x;~ 5 ~Us i~~s!;~~e=n~Qn­
oldest so:1 o: G()P candiCate Anbassador George 
good job now," Burke said. There were no bright lights, under President Eisenhowet. 
3ush) ..'a::-.t-s !-'~:1:-'S!, and Ji::-: ~aehaus '80 (~otr, :la:::e !or Sush C:-.airt:n). ~:orns Inn on canipcs. 
Lamkin agreed, but she still felt cheering crowds, or banks of Harold Stassen had run for that Baker would be ''a superb microphones. There he was. President of the United States
t~~Ha;7is!~~::: h:e:-·:!.E:·...:· George ~ush, Jr. 
vice-president.'' Harold Stassen, candidate for five times since 1948, but this 
7:00 P. ,.,_ 

':on·:e~:!.o:i O::e::1s. Stet~an Center on Ca::;pus. 
Lamkin concluded by saying the President of the United year's candidacy isn't exactly that Baker will now turn his States. lighting fires under many peo­energies towards building a "Pleased to meet you, I'm ple. The only place his name Republican majority in the Sen­Harold Stassen, have a seat.'' has fir into the vote tally in ate. It was more like talking t-o your primaries so far has been in the 
grandfather than a presedential "other" column. candidate. At 74, the big man Yet there he is. "I'm with the rugged face, greying approaching this campaign in a
No parking 

hair and warm aura just didn't qwet, solid way," Stassen ex­mesh with the image of candid­plains. "We're in the early ates shown attacking each other stages of a marathon steeple­

After 8.30 ?.!-:. A·:a:::.::-:c: :or I~:crvit:·.~· Eush 
infront every night on the evening chase, and my aim is to become news. Yet, there he was. one of the strong runners in the He dido' t seem disappointed late primaries and become a
2' 00 p. :·1. Con·;t::-:t!..J:'l O::cns. Ste?•m Center on Ca:<~?US. 
as he entered the room where force at the convention.'' 
2' 10 p .:1. ~c·:no:<.· AC.cl:-~c"ss Rc:? :Ja:1 Lunercn of Californi. 
ofcans

!!ot:rt: 5a~c. '?ld. 
the conference was to be held. Maybe. Stassen's. campus 
2,)0 p )~ P:-es!i!~:-:! ial .;ccc-:-:..:mce S=:)eed1· Line S?eech to 
You'd think he would be. There organizer, Rick Pinkowski, con­
~ asse:-:::>~eC! conventlon by ~e ca.ldidate .,o.:tin-I I _.Ira..-• d on f:-ida·: ni3~t. (via ·on -distance !:ipe'a:{e 
were only a handful of prople cedes that •the prowects of? .. one, ?="O~a~iy fro;:; South Caroflnn, \•'here r.1ost Security has 'requested that 
~:arch

GOP ca:1d~d.etes are com;>eting in the 81th there, a reporter from The winning the nomination look 
;>ri!:':a!'::). students refrain from blocking South Bend Tribune, and this pretty dim for his man, but 2: 4) p .:-t. 3e=-~n ?.o:! CO!ll '.'o~e for '/ice-?r~siCential trash receptacles when parking 
Observer reporter. The scene adds that somethins more sub­
~· on campus. Superior waste is After 2.4) ?.:-:. ,\\'a!.la!:de :or tn:.:r\'ie~·· Lungren unable to empty these recep­would be enough to give most tle may be his candidate's aim. candidates a heavy blow to their "I think he's not worried so
(~OTE All A:-r::.val Ci;7lcts are cip?roxi:nate) tacles if they are blocked. 
ego, but not Harold Stassen-­about
Security warns students that much about winning as 
he's been through this many getting his ideas accepted,"tickets will be issued for block­times before. Pinkowski admitted.
ing trash receptacles. 

Stassen travels around the country with an entourage of about three staffers. About ten others are scattered around the nation seeking votes for their
MASS 


man. Most are college stu­dents, which presents some­
follow-ed by 

what of an irony. Here's a candidate who talks about hist­
supper 
orical figures like close friends, and speaks of the days when

every_ 
there was a four percent unem­

HAIR DESIGNS FOR THE A WARE 
ployment rate, a six percent mterest rate, and no inflation.

MAN AND WOMAN
FRIDAY 
He was there on the battleship Missouri when.Douglas MacAr­

SPECIAL OFFER


at the 
thur signed the treaty ending World War II. He was one of
Free Redken Shampoo and 
the signers of the U.N. Charter. He was there with Martin


Conditioner With any haircut 
Luther King when he told the nation "I have a dream ... " 


$3sovalue ~EDKE"N 
Harold Stassen has his roots in the past, yet somehow he fits 

I 
right in. The odds are against him, bur he's a man with a 
dream--the American dream, 

(GOODTHRU MARCH 31 
HOURS 
the dream that every youngster

Mon. 8:30-'i·OO Thurs. 8:30-8:30 lfor an Appointment, 
Tues. 8 30-5 30 Fri. 8 30-6 30 
is sueposed to have--the dream 

Wed. 8 30-6 30 Sor 8 00-4.00 
Call 234-6767 


-~~--~----------­
----------------~-----~----------­
The Observer 
An Tostal hosts 'unwinding' 
An Tosral will sponsor a campus wide ''unwinding Happy Hour in coordination with the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's String Collectors Club, ac~tJ>rding to Mark Derby, 
string club president. 
l"he non-academic organiza­ti~ chartered this past fall be~n with three hundred me ers, according to Derby. 
''W became associated with AnTo al after I spoke with Chair n John Callaway on Activit" ~ Night," he explain­
ed. \ 
Derby said that the group's ultimate goal is to organize the collection M .en_o}-lgh: strin& to reach Ireland. Their Immediate goal, he said, is to collect enought to reach Ireland, West Virginia, a town of sixty people. 
Newly appointed An Tostal Coordinator Mike Martinez said that competition among dorms should begin immediately. 
Every hall must collect their own ball of string and the treasurer of the Collector's Club will check the purity of the string to insure that twine, clothesline, and other types of rope do not "pollute the ball.' 
Derby warned that An-Tostal Hall Representatives should in­sist upon section collection of string rather than allowing each student to amass his or her own string. 
''People become attached to their ball of string," Derby said. ''A prime example is Tim Przybylowski--he refuses to 
donate his string! If the coiiection is communial, it's not so hard to give up,' • Derby observed. 
Martinez said that at the proposedHaPP.Y Hour, each ball of siring wlll be weighed. 
"Hopefully, the hall that has gathered the most string will be awarded a one-way bus ticket to Ireland, West Virginia," he a~ded. . . 
Then all the stnng_ wtll be 
rolled together," Marnnez ex­
plained. ''Big contributors will • 
be allowed to write their names 
on the ball,'' he said. 
"We've been recording dates 
and special events on our roll 
(of string)," Derby said. 
"Three thousand years from 
now this could be an important 
historical artifact,'' he added. 
The Club was originally start­
ed to enhance the social atmo­
spere of the University, to 
beautify the campus of Our 
Lady and unify the students and dormitories of this community in the pursuit of a common goal" Derby explained. 
He said that Student Activities refused to charter the club unless. it could attest to some redeeming social value. 
"So we included in our Consti­tution campus beautifying field trips to be held at least twice every semester," Derby said. "We haven't even hi!.d a meeting yet. I don't think we'll be charered next year." 
"The Presidency has not been too demanding," he explained, adding, "It may help me get into law school" His main function, he said, is to "chair meetings and always be on the ball " 
· 
He said that the secretary has the most rewarding. ''She will contaCt Norris McWhirter when the appropriate time comes. McWhmer currently edits the Guinness Book of World Re­cords. 
The record is presently held by a farmer who has amassed a twelve foot hight ball of string weighting two tons. "It only took 30 years! '' Derby con­eluded 

In Pakistan 
President Zia agrees to inspection 
ISLAMBAD* Pakisnin (AP) ­Pakistan's president said yes­terday he would allow inspec­tion of border refugee camps to show that Afghan rebels are not being trained and armed there, and he suggested posting an international peacekeeping force in Afghamstan to help end the crisis there. 
In Washington, U.S. analysts said Soviet troops have moved in force to clear Afghan rebels out of the Konar Valley in Eastern Afghanistan, perhaps ind!cating the; start of a Sovtet sprmg offenstve. 
Analysts in several govern­ment agencies, who asked not to be identified, said the Soviet thrust has reached as far as Bariko-wt,· . a village on the Afghan-Pakistani border. A­long the way, the Soviets used rockets and gas to clear out villages which had been rebel strongholds, they said. 
F"restident Gen. 'Mohammad Zia Ul-Haq, addressing Paki­stan's elected representatives, said Afghanistan could seal its border with Pakistan to satisfy itself that no arms or rebels are being sent from Pakistan. The Soviet Union moved thousands of troops into Afghanistan to back a government coup in December and U.S. officials estimate about 80,000 remain, helping the Afghan army fight Moslem rebels. 
Zia described as ''totally base­less'' charges that Pakistan has been providing military training and arms to rebels and said he would permit inspection of the camps m Pakistan by an intern­ational body ''any time it wants'' to prove that only humanitarian relief is being provided. 
Pakistan rejected an offer of $400 million m U.S. aid intend­ed to strengthen its defenses against any Russian threat. It said it would depend upon its own "unity and strength" and the "time-tested friendship" of China. 
President Carter's adviser Brzezinski said Pakistan's re­jection of the aid "suits us just fine." He said yesterday that he thought Pakistan was right in feeling its security interests were not best served by a highly visible defense relation­shtp with the United States. 
Zia's foreign affairs adviser Agha Shahi, said withdrawal of Russian troops from Afghan­istan would enable Pakistan and the Soviet Union "to im­mediately repair our bilateral relation'' Shahi said Pakistan's stand on the troop withdrawal was free from ''any element of anti-Sovietism.'' 
He also said no defense pact between Pakistan and China wouJ,4 be necessary because of the ''dependable frienship'' be­tween the two countries. 
In Washington, the State De­partment said Soviet forces appear to be making prel?ara­tions to remain in Afghamstan indefinitely. They have estab­lished a command structure, are digging wells, laying cables 
[continued from page 1} 
Although events in South­west Asia have Stassen concer­ned, he stressed that he is ~ opposed to any peacetime mili­tary draft as well as draft 
registration. 
"I think one of the most 
serious impositions on young 
people's freedom, and one of 
the most destabilizing factors in 
their lives is to be drafted when 
we're not at war," Stassen 
said. ''I was against the jungle 
war in VietNam, and the hint of 
landing people in the Persian 
Gulf has me worried.'' 
?tassed's positions on other 
tssues are: 
--Abortion. "Over a wide 
spectrum, I think we should and preparing to construct liv­ing quarters, State Department spokesman Hooding Carter said. 
The Soviets brought combat gear and equipment, including sophisticated missiles and artil­lery, he said, some of which is neither necessary or suitable 
for suppressing the Afghan resistence. 
The leader of the rebel move­ment that claims to be Afgha­JOistan's largest anti-Com­munist group rejected links with the Islamic Alliance for the Liberation of Afghanistan ­announced earlier in the week. Gulboudin Hikmatyar told a news conference his Hizbe Islami (Islamic Front) refused to join the alliance because its members were mostly based outside Afghanistan and had no genuine combat force. 
His statement underlined the sharp differences among the rival rebel groups which have failed to establish any unified command. 
.. . Stassen 
develop a right to life amend­ment, not only dealing with abortion, but with capital pun­ishment and the termination of life for older citizens. We have to work through a clarified agreed-upon consensus that re­flects the differing views that fit into America, andit' s this pro­cess of working it through that is the challenge." 
--Inflation. "First of all, we have to bring the~budget into balance. But to do that, I would bring in more • competent peo­ple to staff government agen­cies, cut out waste and fraud, and then bring down the high rate of interest that is deeply hurting the way Americans
.. ,, 
tiV!!. 
[continued on page 11) 

Friday, March 7, 19SO-page5· 


31. 


U93 Midnight Shows Tonight
fie-lAST 
Help is on the way!

MARRIED 
JOHN ANNE 
Rn'TER ARGIER
d)uPLE 
ttERO AT 
~LJ.,__e/u. 
J LARGE

~ ~~~~':SAL PI~ 
. United Artists ~ 

SHOWS 1:45-3:45-5:45-7:45-9:45 ·. :· :·:: ;':: .. :· .· :-;. :-:: :· 
SOPHOMORES AND FRESHME 

Philosophy: Meet Your Majors 
.Sunday, March 9 8:00PM
' /
LIBRARY LOUNGE 
' 

REFRESHMENTS/ SERVED 
v 

further information, contact Profs. David Solomon or Richard Foley Room 3 3 7 O'Shag ,or call 7 5 34 
The Observer 
... Festival 
Washington Hall at 8 p.m. and is scheduled to conduct a workshop on Tuesday at 1 p.m. in the Library Lounge. 
Contemporary novelist Jayne Anne Phillips will appear Tues­day at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. Phillips is tenta­tively scheduled for a writers' workshop on Wednesday at 10 
a.m. in the Library Lounge. 
John Cage, composer and author of experimental poetry, will hold a reading on W ednes­day at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. Cage is scheduled to give a workshop at 1 p.m. Thursday. 
English poet Roy Fisher will appear Thursday at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium and will host a poets' workshoP. on Friday at 11 a.m. in the Ltbrary Lounge. 
Another highlight of the fes­tival will be the joint reading of novelist Louise Gluck and/oet Charles Simic to be hel on Friday at 8 p.m. in.. the Uo-fai'y Auditorium. Both· artists will host a cooperative workshop on Saturday, March 15 at 11 a.m. in the Library Lounge. 
The festival will close on Saturday March 15 with a reading by novelist Scott Spen­cer at 4 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. Spencer is the author of Endless love, a novel that deals with the complexities of teen-age love. 
Kreitzberg estima'tes that the festival will be a "huge" suc­cess. "The festival in the past has been known as a great ttme. 
It provides opportunities for srudents to explore the literary genius.,'' Kreitzberg conclu­ded. 

Friday, March 7, 1980-page6 

Bishop Franc!sco C:faves of the Phzllipine_s spoke yesterday 
on Human Rzghts tn the Ltbrary Auditonum [Photo by Tim 
McKeogh] _ 

Center gives workshop 
The evolving theology of the sacraments in the Church today and creative ministry in the parish will be the focus of a workshop sponsored by the Center for Pastoral Liturgy Monday through Fridar. 
''Updating: Liturgica Reo,.ew­al and Sacramental Practice'' will combine presentations and structured work sessions and begin by looking at the exten­sive changes in sacramental practices since the Second Vatican Council 
Registration information is available by calling the Center at 8801. 
[continued from page 1] 

On Monday at 4 p.m., Israeli short story writer John Auer­bach will appear in the Library Auditorium. Auerbach who was conLacted throu~h the So­ciology Department ts currently collaberating with prize-win­ning novelist Saul Bellow. 
The high point of the festival will be the appearance of English playwright David Hare who is the author of the play 
"Teeth n' Smiles," which 1s at present being produced by the ND-SMC Theatre. After the show's closing performance tomorrow night, Hare will ap­pear on stage to answer any questions concerning the play and afterwards will host a reception in Stapleton Lounge. Hare will appear on Monday in 
...Poll 

[continued from page 4] 
cutively been seen as posses­
sing "momentum." 

Ltke all polls, the s'Orvey conducted last night is less useful in predicting a final voting outcome than as an indicator of where the delegates stood at that particular time. Some delegates may be influen­ced by the formation of last­minute coalitions as campaign deals are made in Stepan Center, or by the presentations that George Bush, Jr., the 
Ambassador's oldest son, or 
the expected Anderson cam­
paign  representative  are  to  
make.  
George Bush still holds  the  

la!gest number of ~elegates ·wtth 30 percent, wht!e John Anderson, the once obscure Illinois liberal, has moved out of the political woodwork to pres­ent a strong challenge with 26 percent of the tally. Anderson's 
support on campus has grown, 
and his new show of strength 
indicates that his recent show­
ings in Vermont and Massachu­
[continued on page 7] 

-Women's Opportunity­Week 
SMC Clubhouse -Sun. March 9,8p.m. 
11/nspirational Women in Scriptures" 

L________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
Comingandgoing 
They're so fast-blink once and they're gone! N.D.'s track team enjoys a late winter workout. [Photo by Tim McKeoghJ 
SMCjuniorsplan UJeekend for tnotns 
by Patty Sheehan 
An estimated total of 250 juniors and their mothers will participate in Saint Mary's "Junior Mothers' Weekend" this Friday through Sunday, according to Parry Zidar, Junior class secretary. 
The weekend includes a Fri­day evening wine and cheese ~eception in Stapleton Lounge m LeMans Hall from 8:30p.m. to 10 p.m. and -a Saturday afternoon luncheon at Morris Inn with a fashion show spon­sored by Casual Corner. No activities are planned for Satur­day evening, although on op­tion available for mothers and daughters is the play "Teeth and Smiles" in O'Loughlin Auditorium. Ticket costs for interested play-goers a.re inclu­ded in the weekend pnce. 
. . . Poll 

[continuedfrom page 6] 
a large percentage, would nor be enough to provide the win­ing margin even if the entire undecided block moved to sup­port a single candidate. 
This large number of undeci­d,eds could determine the lead­
,,.ship margin for any of the n•ee leading candidates, in­clu.ling Ronald Reagan whose 14 .,ercent support level is virtually unchanged since the most ~cent poll three weeks ago. 1\~agan's low tally is setts may be having an impact here. 
Those delegates who have not yet made up their minds comprise 17 percent of the 
•total, which through 
A mass in the Church of OUr Lady of Loretto at 10 a.m. followed by coffee, juice and danish in Stapleton will com­plete the weekend. 
The itinerary was composed and finalized by Chairman Sue Bouhall, who explained that the totla price for the weekend in $20 for mother and daughter, or $10 for any junior alone. 
'Tm really surprised and pleased at the amount of juniors and their mothers who have signed UJ?," Zidar remarked. 'Tm hopmg this will be a great weekend.'' 
'')uniors participating in this weekend's events can pick up their packets in LeMans Hall Lobby of Friday from 3-5 p.m. These packets include planned itinerary, luncheon tickets, and optional tickets to the play. 
surprisi& considering Con­
gressmanf{enry Hyde's force­
ful speech l'n his behalf just one 
hour before "the survey. 
The remat\ling candidates, 
including Cra•.of, Ford, Stassen 
and Simon, tv~ether received 
only 12 percent ui the total. 
When asked to name their 
second choice, dk largest 
group of delegates\(26 percent) 
described themsel\\~s as ''un­
decided." 
The results are based on 86 personal interviews with con­vention delegates selected at random from the entire group. The interviews were conducted last night for the Observer by the McNally Research Group, an independent market re­search firm in South Bend. 
Friday,March 7, 1980-page 7 
IncludesND 

South Bend prepares for census 
The Census Bureau in South Bend is preparing for the numeration of this area's popu­lation in the 1980 census next month. The Constitution re­quires that the federal govern­
1ment hold a census every ten years, which it has done since 1790. ' Anne Doran, the U.S. Census &reau regional director, said that the Census Bureau will work with the Notre Dame admiqistration in obtaining data f~r on-campus students. She str~sed that it is important for off-c pus students to fill out the orms that they will receive in the mail. 
Housing, Office Director Fr. Michael Heppen said that his office will provide a list of students in University housing units to the Census Bureau. Heppen emphasized that the students should fill out the questionnaires when they 
Playwright to view production 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Theatre in conjunction with the Notre Dame Soph­omore Literary Festival will welcome British playwright Da­vid Hare on Saturday to view his play Teeth 'n' Smtles now in its production week on the Saint Mary's campus. Hare will also run workshops for the Literary Festival. 
Hare was born in Sussex, England in 1947. He rean the Portable Theatre, a traveling experimental theatre group, for three years for-1968-1971. He was literary manager at the Royal Court Theatre form 1969 to 1970 and then became resi­dent dramatist. In 1973 he was the resident dramatist at the Nottingham Playhouse. He has a diverse background in ·direct­ing. 
Hare directed Brassneck at ~he Nottingham Playhouse (\973), Teeth 'n' Smiles at the Royal Court (1975), Plenty at the National (1978), Licking Hitler for BBC (1978) and Dreams of Leaving (1979) for the BJISC. The playwright has won rr5l.ny prominent awards including that of Most Promis­ing Pla}'..,right for the Evening Standard for his play Slag. It is a rare opportunity in aca­demic the'atre for the play­wright to view his own work and then comment on it . 
Tickets for the three nights of the run are still available. For reservations, call 284-4176 as soon as possible. The nights remaining are tonight, tomor­row and Saturday. The play begins at 8:00 in O'Laughling Auditorium on the Saint Mary's campus. 
S.D. Club plans 
•
meetmg 
There will be a Sa,n Diego Club meeting Sunday at 7 P.M. in the Grace Hall pit. Any questions should be directed to Mike Roe (1765). 

receive them at the end of the 
month from the rectors. 
''The census is the largest peacetime activity of the federal government,'' Doran said. ''Many government grants to. Notre Dame are based on census statistics of student population such as supplemen­tary housing grants for dorm­itories and financial aid pro­grams,'' she explained. Finan­cia! aid programs are also related to the national average of the income of the students' families. 
Doran emphasized the need of accurate statistics for "effec­tive planning of community services" for the off-campus area. These include crucial services for the off-campus students such as police protec­tion and garbage disposal. Total community development funds for South Bend are based on the whole population of the South Bend metropolitan area, including the Notre Dame campus. 
There are many government programs that rely on the use of census data. Mental health centers such as the Logan Center and nutrition programs for the elderly are two exam­ples. Other such programs mcl1:1de ener~y, devt;lopment, antt-recesston assistance, unemployment insurance, and federal aid to highways. 
Private enterprise also uses census data extensively. Busi­nesses decide whether to open stores, and banks on the basis of these statistics. Church leaders use census data in their plans to build churches and provide religious services. 
The most important .Political use of census statistics ts in the apportionment of districts for 
U.S. Congressmen and state legislators which will be deci­ded by the end of 1981. District boundary lines depend on the total population of the area, includmg everyone on the Notre Dame campus and not on the number of registered voters. 
The census questionnaires will be mailed to off-campus students during the last week of this month. Doran urges students to mail these question­naires in before April 1 in order to participate. 

~ ND o'laughlin
SMCI d"t .
THEATREl au 1onum oint mary's college 284-4176 
TEETH nSMILES 
Asavage vision ofthe disintegration ofthe rockwodd. 
march7&8 54.00 ($3.00 std, 

1980 LENTEN SERMON SERIES 

"Obediently accepting death on a cross" March 9 
• Fr. Austin Fleming "The name auove every other name" ·'Jesus Christ Is Lord" 
March 16  March  23  
Br.  Joseph McTaggart,  CSC 1  Fr.  Michael  McCafferty,  CSC  
SUNDAY VESPER S  
7:15 PM  

SACRED HEART CHURCH LADY CHAPEL 
--------------------------,
! PINOCCHIO'S! 
I Pizza Parlor 1
1 . Georgetown Shopping Plaza t I.ANNIVERSARY SPECIALI Jcoupon : buy one largePiz:za I ;&get the secondfor 1;2 pnce!1 
~-good thru March, 1980only-I ;-one coupon per pizza, please-~ ~ 1IHAPPY HOUR Wide Screen TV o~ ~ 1 
'PH pmJ~A;!JJ I

I 4 6 -pm g -I IMonday thru Friday !'' I 
tW~deliver-277-4522. ~. I L.J!:!~~l!!~.B~~~S.h_!.I!_!______J 
----J 
-...... 
.----------------------------­
Editorials 
Friday, March 7, 1980-pageS 
The Badger 

Ice thepuck 
M. Heaney & S.J. Kotz 
It is reassuring to note that during NCAA-tournament time, Notre Dame students are think· ing about more than just basketball. The recent mora­torium placed upon hockey scholarsnips has awakened the slumbering consciousness of the N.D. student body, making them aware that ''Notre Dame is a lot more than football and basketball.'' 
There is a definite shortage of ~ood sporting events at N.D. Wtth only six home football games and about a dozen b-ball contests, what wiJl domers do to satisfy their healthy appetite for sports? T.V. will partially mi~igare the problem. Between trips to the stadium and the
'-· A.C.C., domers can take some solace in watching their heroes do their thing on television. 
Unfortunately, while N.D. is more than football and basket· ball, ir does nor seem to be much of anything else. Such worthy events as the Sopho· more Literary Festival, the Cultural Arts Film Series, and the Blues and Jazz Festivals have faced severe financial difficulties over the past several years. In fact, the Film Series and the Blues Festival have already been cancelled, with students offering little or no protest. 
Indeed, aside from sports, Notre Dame students don't get excited about much of any­thing. For example, studenr interest in the tenuring of professors has been virtually non-existent. Occasionally, several students might meet tn LaFortune to discuss the prob-
6(){l)NEII/5, MAN. 11/E'V& STAIUlfiJ TH/3 ACTl.IAL. IJIRJTIN6. I THINK IT'S TIM/3 'If)(} PUTOfff THE 
IAKJRJ) 70 MJDj'../:;Jftj';l(":). 
t 
lem, and some dedicated soul might take the time to write an edttorial column in The Observer, but that is the extent of student interest. In compar­ison with hockey, tenure 1s a minor league issue at Notre Dame. 
Hockey is even more impor­tant to N.D. students than their own social lives. Last year a survey showed that the vast majority of N.D. students favored a change in visitation rules. When the Administra­tion flatly refused to consider the parietals issue, however, students did not e¥en whimper in protest. 
Yet now -that the Administra­tion is tampering with the hockey program, students are feverishly aroused. The fact that hockey, which is at best a peripheral part of most Stu· dents' lives, concerns domers more than the right to interact normally with their friends of the opposite sex, is nothing short· of incredible. 
Even if hockey scholarships are discontinued, it will not make much of a difference in the lives of most N.D. students. It would mean that Notre Dame will no longer be able to compere for big-rime hockey honors, but so what? If the winnin~ of National Champion· ships ts the most important memory that most students will take with them from Notre Dame, something is seriously wrong with this school. In their obsession for saving hockey, while ignoring more imEortant issues, students are reinforcing the "jock" stereotype that N.D has tried to shed for so long. 
The art of flu dropping 
WASHINGTON . This is the 1 How one contracted it. 
time of year for. flu dropping. 2 The length of time one 'Since nearly everyone has had it. had the flu, the object of the 3 The amount of suffering game is to impress on the involved (having had intestinal other person that your flu was flu as opposed to the chest worse than theirs. kind is woth more points). 
The opening: Let us deal with some con­"I had the flu in October. crete illustrations. I think I was the first one in "I've had the flu before-but 
Silver Springs to get it.'' this little devil stays on and on. The parry: It's been six weeks now." "Was it the Virus B Singapore (5 points) 
strain, or last year's. Hong "My brother had it for three Kong variety?'' months. He used up 33 "My doctor thinks the bug boxes of Kleenex.'' (8 points) came from Kuala Lumpur via "I was so sick I couldn't even the Khyber Pass." go to the Pavarotti recital." The thrust: (10 points) "Oh, yes my cleaning woman ''I've never been sick in my had that. She claims to have life (2 points) "But I went to the been in bed for two day, ] ockey Club for dinner. Liz but it wouldn't surprise me if Taylorandjohn Warner were at she just wanted some time off.'' the next table, and he was The art of flu dropping is telling her to keep her mouth becoming very sophisticated. shut when he was making a The sconng depends on: political speech, and she was 
Art Buchwald 

coughing and sneezing, and I swear I must have got the bug from her. " (15 points) 
''I think I got mine on the Concorde. I was seated next to Bo Derek and she kept talking to me the whole trip. Well, a week later Rona Barrett reveal­ed to me on the Good Morning, America show that Bo had the fl'u, and I put two and two together." (12 points) "What did your doctor say?" 
"He said on the phone to stay in bed and drink plenty of fluids and take aspirin." (no points) 
''Mine came to the house and stayed for 15 minutes. He even 
took  out  his  stethoscope  and  
listened  to  my  chest.''  (20  
points)  

"What did he tell you to do? "Stay in bed, drink plenty of 

liquids and take aspirin.'' "What did you say to him?" "I said I wanted a second 
opinion." (Game's over). 
The centrality ofdeveloj»nent 
Notre Dame is perhaps unique in holding a justice teach-in annually. Last month we held our third. Those who knew about it generally acknowledged its failure; the teach-in was igoored. Was this the result of a lack of interest, or of pressing schedules, or was it simply a reflection of confusion? What could a justice teach-in possibly mean? 
As I understand its purpose, all courses in all departments were to spend a day reflecting upon and dsicussing justice in the context of the materail of their courses. But all courses? Is that possible? My contemplation led--after following a circuitous path of detours, meander­ing.> leading often to dead-ends, and bold leaps over hiddendangers--to contemplate the mean­ing of ''development''. 
Development has, I must confess, always meant for me an economic strategy that would allow certain nations to escape the chronic poverty they have rome to know so intimately. In other words, I had always understood that development referred to others--to the nations of Africa, Asia or South America--but, never to ourselves. Never to the United States. Never to Western Europe. 
To understand that development does indeed apply to us as well, I had to go back to the original meaning of the ~ord: "Gradual unfold­ing; fuller working out ... " (Oxford). The metaphor is organic, so we might press the meaning a bit farther-and understand develop­ment to be a process of moving toward fruition; a growing, it would follow, that needs to be nurtured. We must develop the meaning of "development; indeed we wither away, our vitality drawn in the parched soil of consumer­ism. 
As we see that we too are in need of development, we must understand that is not separate from the strivings of the third and fourth worlds. The findings of the prestigious Brandt Commission on International Develop· ment Issues, after a two year study, have come to that very conclusion; "The world ... can become stronger by becoming a just and humane society. If it fails in th1s, it will move toward its own destruction.'' Our fates are bound together. The survival of all can only be achieved by the mutual development of all. 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ....... .Rosei_Tlary ~ills 
represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor......... .D1ane W1lson 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46JJ6 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonal Editor .............. Ann Gales 
opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor......... M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis newspaper published by the students able to all members of the ..community, News Editor. .. .. .. ... .. .. . . ... Mark Rust ofthe University ofNotre Dame dulac and the free expression of varying News Editor ................. Mike Shields and Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on cafllpus, through letters, is SMC News Editor ... .... Margie Brassil necessarily reflect the 'J>Oiicies of the encouraged. · -
Paullizuer 

Just as we must see that development refer.; to 
the whole world, so too must we see that 
economic development it.-;elf is only one a.spect 
of another whole. If development 1.> to mean a 
''gradual working out'' of the potential that lies 
before humanity we msut expand uur conception 
to include politics and psychology, architecture 
and hi.;;tory, mu.-ic and philosophy, art and 
physics, poetry and ecology. How can these 
aspects be isolated (as in a university) without 
ripping them brutally from their place in the 
whole? 

To make this more concrete; The Iranian revolution was perhaps primarily a reaction against the western development policies of a the Shah. It was a revolution for Islamic culture. Even granting that the Shah's policies were intended in the best interests of the Iranian people (and that is too much), this revolution stands as a classic warning of the result of pursuing a development strategy without con­sent of the people and without consideration of the cultural dimension of a nation. 
The fields ofknowledge in all their breadth and depth might from an organic whole--each part delicately impinging on others. And I suggest that i.; is from the perspective of development that we best see these relationships: for in all these fields we seek development, we seek to unfold the inherent richness that lies in the possible. 
If we can understand the wholeness of the world and of mankind and know the centrality of development to this, we will have at the same time found the meaning of the word /,·ustice. 
Is this to be dismissed as a romantic onging for a paradise lost, for the healing of a shattered world? Or can one say that what ha.> dominated our understanding of what counts for know­ledge, as science, is limited? Can we .>ay t~at there is more to knowledge than the quanufi­able, than that which yields itself up to analysis? May we say that knowledge deals with the whole as well? The answer is urgent~y nec;ded. 
There is much to do, though, and so Jude ume. The barest beginning would be the conscious attempt to place our studies in their largest context--one of .>urvival and development--one of justice. If hope the justice teach-m was that beginning. It might have been. 
Sports Editor .. ............... Mark Perry Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly Photo Editor .............. Doug Christian 
Business Manager ........Steve Odland Production Manager .... ] ohn McGrath Advertising Manager .... ·M.. HolsingerController................. .Kevm · Mamon Circulation Manager .... ..Greg Hedges 
administration of either institution. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers
The news is reported as accurately and 

-The Observer_ 


The Observer -Editorials Friday, March 7, 1980-page9 
NOr\ 
\ 

Kennedy offers strong leadership 
I wish to announce my en­Egypt have declined during the 
Pakistani army took four hours 

dorsement of Senator Edward Carter Administration. 
to rescue our embassy person­

Kennedy for the Democratic Our government has little 
nel. 

nomination for President of the understanding of the Islamic 
The United States is the 

United States. Senator Ken­society and its mentality. This 
greatest country in the world,

nedy is capable of giving the was evident last summer when 
and we should not sacrifice the 

nation the strong new leader­President Carter ignored the 
lives of our soldiers to keep a

ship it needs to solve the many advice of the U.S. charge 
corrupt, incompetent dictator in 

problems we have today. This d'affaires in Tehran, Bruce 
an anti-American country in 

has been the most difficult Laingen, who told him not to let 
power. President Carter made 

decision of my four years in the Shah into the country and 
this commitment because of a 

Democratic party politics and it warned of possible reprisals 
1959 defense treaty with Paki­

is with great reluctance that I against the inadequately guard­
stan which he did not observe 

oppose the renominat~on of a!l ed U.S. Embassy if this hap­
himself when he cut off all 

incumbent Democrauc Presi­pened. 
military and economic assist­

dent for whom I campaigned We will not have adequate 
ance to Pakistan in April 1979,

during the 1976 Illinois primary conventional capabilities in the 
in a dispute over Pakistan's 

and general election. Middle East until the Rapid 
nuclear power development.

Kennedy has served with dis­Deployment Force is ready in 
I believe sending U.S. troops to

tinction in the U.S. Senate for 1983, so we would probably 
Pakistan would result in a

18 years and his current posi­have to use nuclear weapons in 
senseless and unjustifiable war

tion as Chairman of the Senate a war against the Soviet Union 
like Vietnam. Carter's support

Judiciary Committee is evi­there. · 
of the Vietnam War even when

dence of the respect his fellow I am particularly disturbed by 
Nixon was withdrawing the

Senators have for him. His National Security Advisor Zbig­
troops may indicate that he

staff on foreign and domestic niew Brzezinski's recent asser­
would not hesitate to get the

affairs is widely regarded as tion that the United States 
country involved in a similar 

one of the best in the Senate. would meet a Soviet threat to 
conflict.

Kennedy demonstrated his the Persian Gulf by attacking 
Althovgh I understand peo­

competence in foreign policy by the Soviet Union somewhere 
ple's reservations about Kt;n­

his advocation of establishing else in the world. It is only 
nedy' s conduct at ChappaqUid­

relations with the People's Re­rational that we would respond 
dick, I believe that his opposi­

public of China in 1969, three to the Soviet attack on the 
tion to our Vietnam War poli­

years before Richard Nixon to~k Persian Gulf by concentrating 
cies after his visits to refugee

that historic step, and by hts on defending the anti-Soviet 
camps in South Vietnam and his

extensive tour of the Persian countries of Saudi Arabia, 
visits to Bangladesh refugee

Gulf region in 1975. Oman, the United Arab Emi­
camps show a genuine desire to

Rather than discussing Ken­rates, and Kuwait. U.S. escala­
alleviate human suffering. In

nedy's domestic views which tion of a Persian Gulf conflict 
the Senate, Kennedy has con­

most people know about, I now into a major world war would 
sistently defended his con­

wish to address the problem of only end in the senseless de­
victions in a forceful manner

. the Middle East crises that struction of both sides . 
ever since he led the struggle to 

have occupied the attention of Kennedy advocates a more 
pass his brother's civil rights

Americans over the last few calm, rational approach·to Mid­
bill in 1964.

months. I have supported most dle East policy with military 
President Carter is an honest,

of President Carter's actions plans in conjunction with our 
hard-working man and my op­

during the crises in Iran and allies, which is wiser than the 
postion to his renomination

Afghanistan, including his ef­unilateral and unlimited com­
stems from disagreements with 

forts to free the hostages, the mitment Carter made before 
his policies. I will support and

Soviet grain embargo, the O­obtaining any support from our 
campaign for him in November

lympics boycott, and U.S. arms allies. Since we are assuming 
if he wins the Democratic

sales to Afghan rebels. How­responsibility for the defense of 
Party's. nomination. In his 

ever, I have been inwardly torn the Persian Gulf area, Kennedy 
harder line against the Soviet

between a patriotic des1re to believes we should ask for a 
Union, Carter has shown that

support the President in a t~me more certain supply of oil at a 
he still realizes the need to

of crisis and a growing reahza­reasonable price m return. 
prevent nuclear war--unlike

tion that his lack ofa long-range I agree w1th Ken~edy' ~ op­
some of his Republican chal­

consistent foreign policy may postition to draft regtstr~uon m 
lengers--by telling the Ameri­

ieaJ trn: country in the wrong peacetime for two ma10 rea­
can Legion that he still wants 

direction. sons. The decision to ask for 
the Senate to ratify SALT II.

In his State-of-the-Union mes­dr.Ut registration. was based 
I encourage Notre Dame and 

sage, the President enunciated more on a reacuon to mass 
Saint Mary's students of ~ll 

a Carter Doctrine that was an hysteria than on realistic, long­
political persuasions to vote m

obvious imitation of the Truman range defense planning. I also 
the primaries this spring and I

Doctrine. President Truman strongly oppose Preside~t Car­
encourage students who are not

formed a N.A.T.O. alliance of ter's decision to comm1t U.S. 
registered to register in Indi­

friendly countries with demo­combat troops in Pakistan in the 
ana. The United States of

cratic societies like ours who event of a Soviet attack there. 
America will only remain the

made a firm commitment of the In every war except Vietn~, 
greatest nation in the world as 

use of their own troops and the United States fought 10 
ion~ as the American people

buildino; U.S. military facilities defense of democracy and with 
believe in participation m our 

on their soil. Through the the help of courageous, reliable 
democratic process. I hope that 

Marshall Plan, Truman demon­allies. Pakistan is ruled by 
the recent resurgence of Ameri­

strated a sincere U.S. friend­General Mohammed Zia al-Haq 
can patriotism will continue on

ship for these nations. Carter who siezed power in an illegal 
in support of efforts to solve our

only has an agreement from one military coup. There h~ve bet;n 
nation's critical problems over

Arab country, Oman, for the two U.S. soldiers ktlled 10 
the next few years.

construction of U.S. military Pakistaril already, not br tht; 
Joe Slovinec

facilities on their soil and Russians but by a Paktstam 
PastPresident

diplomatic relations with most mob th~t attacked the U · S · 
ND-SMC Young Democrats 

of the Arab countries except embass.y in November. The 
P. 0. Box Q 
Abortion issue not always 'black and white' 
Dear Editor: 
I am simply appalled by the attitude underlying Madol?na Christensen's letter concernmg abortion. It appears that Ms. Christensen deems abortion a "Black and white" issue. She {ears that pro-lifer~, :will b.e 
·less than absolute m thelt ot?postition to abortion when fated with the victims of rape or incest. 
Ms. Christensen's let!er . manifests the belief that hfe ts black and white, that it is easily mapped-out, that we may self­righteously make a blanket decision covering all females who contemplate abortion, in­cluding the victims of rape or incest. 
In my opinion, it is indeed a grimly oppressive, rigid and unredeemed "Christianity" which will face the pregant victim of rape or incest and confidently proclaim, "We don't want to hear your opinion about abortion. It does not matter if your are twelve years of age--or twenty-five--or forty. It does not matter if/ou are mentally well-balance or on the verge of a nervous break­down from the hideously hu­miliating experience which you have had. The fact that you have a mind of your own does not interest us. We 'havens of gentleness,' (cf Ms. Chris­tensen's article on the draft), who have never been the vic­tims of rape or incest, have made your decision for you. You must have that child.'' 
It must be comforting, Ms. 
Christensen, to feel so securely 
correct that you may make such 
a decision for that victim; but 
the question is, "Does God 
agree with you?'' Mine 
doesn't. 
Kathen·ne Catanzarite 

Sexism at ND : 
An alternative view 
Dear Editor:­
This letter is in response to the many letters referring to sexism at Notre Dame, more specifically to the ''Perspec­uve" article in the February 
Scholastic. 
The main theme of the sexist 
attitudes is that the chauvinis­
tic male Domer is out for a "hot 
night'' whenever he goes out to 
the bars, or to a party. It has 
been said that, while out on 
such a night, the typical Domer 
will stand in a crowded bar 
scoping and rating the women, 
looking for one that is good­
looking, mindless, and hope­
fully easy to take home to bed. 
By the "evidence" presen­
ted, it would appear that the 
men at Notre Dame:;. possess a 
great rower. Men here can 
compe women to r~sk their very 
lives in order to gtve the guys 
what they like. I am referring 
to a statement made that a 
woman at Notre Dame dresses m a :skirt and high heels, then ventures out into the snow and ice, merely because "the guys like it." 
I personally find this very hard to believe; I am also doubtful that anyone at Notre Dame is insecure about his/her intelligence. I am evidently wrong; why else would women here "giggle and play dumb," if not to make some insecure male feel smarter. 
These two points are of a few rhat supposedly are ''evi­.:lence" supporting sexism at ~otre Dame. It seems funny to me that this "evidence" is based upon the actions of the women here, and not of the men. It w~ll undoubtedly be argued that these actions by the women are brought about by the totally sexist attitudes of the men. 
Both of these cases against the men can easily be reversed, but to do that would be point­'less. The point is that these problems must be placed in their proper perspective, that ?f indivtdual prejudices. You will find prejudices in all forms and in all places. I feel that one must evaluate one's own feel­ings and treat rising problems in the correct manner. One shouldn't be so quick to find faults in others, especially when it entails generalizing the actions of a large group. It might even be helpful to recall the psychological principle of projection, which consists of assuming that someone else has your own feelin~s. 
After considenng these points carefully, then, just mavbe one can be justified in criticizing another. But then again, maybe not. 
David Arcun· 
' 

We must remember 
Joe Evans' name 
/), ·.11· bittor: 
\XIht:nL·n.·r p('ople spoke 'Of Joe h·an-.. this phrase repeated l1kl' a li1any·· "He always rL·nwmbered my name." Dr. han~· sis1er, Eileen, told me at 111, funeral that joe worked very hard a1 rernl'mbcring names. It wa-.; his way of demonstrating lilL' unp,)nance he attached to l'.tdt persll!1 in his life. None of th who knew him. or who met h11n u>uld miss that point. 
I bl'heve thai Dr. Joseph 1~\·an" · name should not be J,Jrgo!ten in the place where he ga\'e his life (this year would ha\'e been Jlll'·s .'\Oth year at the University). Joe does nor need .1 plaque nor does he need the :n>S<-;J"t>ads named after him. 1~<~1 WL' do! We need to ,,.n,~·mbcr all rh;!t) oe taught us l'\·ery tunc we cnss-cross cam­pu~. Students who will take our 
places in years to come must ll'arn that a man named Joseph bans spt·ru his life that we all might see·Truth. 
.J•1e never forgot our names; let us alwavs remember his. :::ontributions to the ·Joseph ::vans Memorial Fund can be Sl'IH to Box 4-13, Notre Dame, Ind. 
B.;rbara Ann Budde 

,_________ 


J 
1.. •
• 

Friday, March 7, 1980-page 10 
Features 
' ' 

LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD 
The Cabbage Patch Version 
"When I was five," the old man said, "I asked my father where I had come from a.> a baby; and he told me he found me on a tree .>rump in the woods. From that, I knew he was a liar, and I never believed another thing he told me.'' 
Nearly eighty years is a long time over which never co have believed your father; .>ometime.> old men, looking back, forget the way thing.> happened. But the old timer .>aid: ''Parent.> ou~ht not lie to children, because a chtld can recognize a lie. It hurts a boy to know he can't tru.>t his own father and mother." 
Mo.>t of u.>, in our childhood, came up against that tree .>rump; only in my own experience, it was a cabbage patch that was credited with a.>si.>ting me to birth. I felt my.>elf tea.>ed, rather than lied to, by the explana­tion. Mr.>. Wigg.>, famou.> m my .>tory book, had a cabbage patch; but .>he found no babie.> there that .>he ever mentioned; only rabbits, ran­domly vi.>iting. I wa.> annoyed with my parent.> for keeping .>ecret.> from ' me, but I didn't judge them for a lifetime to be incapable of the truth. 
"Children, if you tell them," the old man .>aid, "can handle the truth.'' Truth, to an adult, seem.> like .>uch a mu.>cular word, reducing complexitie.> to their ba.>ic formulas, to be measured again.>t the reality of the cosmo.>. "You .>hall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free." But truth, at the age of five, car ht> ahnut lB welcome a.> an 
A Senior's Confession 
I've gut .>enioritis. I only wi.>h I had had it when I wa.> a fre.>hman. Mo.>t .>enioriti.> i.> cau.>ed not by lazine.>.>, but rather by the realizatio~ that 'tho.>e-wonderful-college-day.> are .>oon over and a ..>u.>piciont that life pa.>.>ed ju.>t a.> quickly. 
At last month'.> .Faculty Senate meeting, a profe.>sor a.>ked if there wa.>n't .>omething the University could do about .>enior.> who were ''.>crewing off.'' Thi.> profe.>.>or .>hould celebrate th<: sympto~.> of .>enioriti.> he .>ee.>--to "screw-off' i.> perhap.> one of the mo.>t courageou.>, mo.>t adult deci.>ion.> a .>enior make.> in hi.> life. 
We (seniors) have been .>o bu.>y .>crambling to .>ecure our future.>, that we lo.>t who we were along the way. Only now, with the help of .>enioriti.> are we retrieving the .>pecial part.> or abilities we abandoned a.> freshmen. We 'came) ND achiever.> and already drenched in competiton. We readily obeyed the tacit requirement here: we didn't enter if we weren't sure to win; we didn't do it if we weren't the be.>t; we didn't .>ay it if we weren't brilliant. It'3 no wonder that many of us feel frustrated and unappreciated­-we have not allowed others to 
apprectate u.>. 
Many of us .>aid, for exa~ple, ''I'm too busy to have a boyfnend; there will be time for one after colle~e." We thought that .>omehow wed be different people in the "real world." But now as Senior.>, we realize that we were' not preparing for _the _real world--we were already m tt. 
·Granted, ND i.> different than out there, but not anv les.> real. 
Caught in.>ide time pre.>sure.>, every minute wa.> a matter of our 
e 
albatro.>.> hung around the neck: ''I'm going to tell you the truth, kid: your father'.> in jail; your mother .>leeps in public doorway.>. Next week the judge is going to make you an orphan." Some truths, I have .>een chtldren weeping for the ri~ht not to know. Ignorance is no vtrrue; but truth i.> the wind, dangerous and powerful, that mu.>t be tempered to the .>horn lamb. I have no theories about what i.> the right age for "truth"; but truth, wisely told, .>hould neither scare us nor dull our innocence. 
The old man, talking of birth, had dying on hi3 mind. He was etghty-four, and his lungs were gone; he wa.> having trouble with breath­ing. Hi.> children Were dead; hi.> wife 
·had died a.> a very young woman in 1921. In World War I, he had been left as a corp.>e on a battlefield in France; for three days, he had lain among the fallen, counted by his officer.> as one of the war dead. Gradually, he had regained con­.>ciou.>ne.>.>, and dragged himself out of the valley of death, to a field ho.>pital. Up until now, he had .>carcely mentioned death except to .>ay he had e.>caped it by hi.> act of re.>urrection. He had .>eemed to be planning to live forever; but now, for the fir.>t time, he talked of death. Hi.> worry about leaving the world had reminded him of the my.>tery that .>urrounded hi.> coming into it, after dealing a.> a child with the silline.>s of hi.> father's lie. · 
future and effort.> m the per.>onal 
realm were the first to be dt.>carded 
("Oh, I can alway.> call her up next 
week"). For Senior.>, there aren't 
many "next week.>" left. Time ran 
out on the people we wanted to 
be--the opportumtie.> came and went 
a.> each week, each year, pa.>.>ed. 
Someone el.ie got the girl. Recogni­
tion didn't always materialize. The 
GPA, the rroud parents, even the 
grad .>choo acceptance hasn't quite 
.>ati.>fied u.> or been worth the 
sacrifice . 
It is no wonder that Senior.> appear 
to have little time for academics--in 
addition to .>tudying for cla.>.>es, we 
are taking advantage of the variou.> 
way.> of learning that ND offer.>--at­
tending films, hearing .>peaker.>, 
volunteering, working on relation­
.>hip.>, doing reading on our own. 
I do not deny that the college year.> are probably the. only time i~ life th~t a per.>on can tmmerse htmself m academia. Nor do I deny the value of hard work in college. I simply as.>ert that when bound by fear, pre.>.>ure, and a battered self-concept, .>o com~on at ND, le~~ni_n~ is .>everely re.>tncted. We are Hmtttn~ ourselves intellecrually and emouonally by living for when we get out there, by .>tudying just to 3ecure our future.>, by doing what we already know becau.>e we are afraid of failing, by avoiding intima.te r_elationship.> be­cau.>e they requtre ttme ... 
For three and a half vPar.> we have been pri.>oner.> of o ambition.> and fear.> of inadequacy. We wer~ .>cared and we immer.>ed ourselve.> m work to gain .>orne control over our lives. And we're still scared because we're inexperienced, timid ''.>crew-?f!.>.'' So, plea.>e support us; plea.>e JOin u~;; 
Renee Leuchten 

Rev. Robert Griffin 
"The fools tell me," he said, "there'.> no harm to dying; becau.>e when you die, at last you're out of your misery." He shook his head so as to say that the fools didn't convince hiin. "I can't stand such ignorance," he said; "I can't put up with such foolish talk." I thought, at ftr.>t, he might be fearful of the .>uffering.> of hell; but then I under­stood him to be choosing the pain of his own life in preference to the silence of the grave. 
"I can't understand any of it," he .>aid. "The Father in heaven hasn't given me the power to understand.'' He wa.> not a religious man in any traditional sense; but he comforted me by the tenderness with which he .>poke of God, as thou~h he had just offered Him an endeanng word. Yet hi.> earthly father had told him lies; hi.> Heavenly Father had never told him the truth. H'e could have been questioning the reliability of fathers. 
The opening, for me as preacher, was perfect. Here was thi.> old man, struggling for breath, living in this .>habby room in a hotel that .>heltered the poor. I could have promised him he would inherit a Kingdom. I could have told him of a morning when the glory of God would wrap him in brightnes.>; and his ase and aches would drop away, havmg .>erved to bring him home. With cherubim at the left .>ide, and seraphim on the right, he would sing hymns of joy forever. The .>aint.> would take him by the hands and lead him as a child 
What 's All This, Then? 
CINEMA--ON CAMPUS 
A Man For All Seasons on Friday, March 7 at 7:00, 9:15, and 11:30. Engineering Auditorium. Excellent film on the life of Sir Thomas More, a contemporary of England's Henry 
VIII. Starring Paul Scofield, Wendy Hiller, Robert Shaw, and Orson Welles. Pat n' Mike, on Friday, March 7 at 7:00, 9:00, and 11:00. Carroll Hall (SMC) Patton, on Saturday, March 8 at 7:00 and 10:00. Engineerin~ Auditorium. Geor~e C. Scott stars 10 the award­winmng film on the life of one of World War Il's most colorful gen­erals, Patton. With Karl Malden, and Edward Binns . 
Adam's Rib, on Saturday, Match 8, at 7:00, 9:00, and 11:00. Carroll Hall (SMC) 

Gharonda, on Saturday, March 8 at 
7:00. Library Auditorium. India Ass­
ociation film. October, on Monday, March 10 at 
7:30. Washington Hall. Another in the series of films offered by the Speech and Drama department. 
Gerald Curtin 

PERFORMANCE--ON CAMPUS 
Teeth n' Smiles on Friday and 
Saturday, March 7 and 8, at 8:00 
p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium (SMC) . A modern play by David Hare, "Teeth n' Smiles" focuses on the decadence and disintegration of the rock world. ConcertJohn Michael Talbot, Friday, ~arch 7 at 8:00p.m. Library Auditor­tum. Concert, Tom Chapin, Saturday, M<J.rd-, at B:OO p.m. Little Theater {SMC). Harry's brother, star of Make 
. A Wish, performs. Organ Recital, Judy Hancock, on Sunday, March 9 at 8:00p.m. Sacred Heart Church. 
mto the light that is everlasting Life. 
Only I couldn't cheapen fatth by 
offering him a cabbage patch version 
of the truths that make men free. 
"Old timer," I .>aid, "I used to 
know a gentleman older than you are. 
Every morning, on awakening, he 
would look at the clock and the 
calendar; then he would tell himself 
every morning, on awakening, he 
would look at the clock and the 
calendar; then he would tell himself 
every day: 'Starting from this 
moment, you have a minimum of ten 
more year.> to live."' 
"Ifl knew I would live for another 
ten year.>," the old man .>aid, "I 
would buy me a little house, with a 
little patch of land to grow bean.> on, 
and a porch where I could .>it in a 
rocker and breathe fre.>h air to get my 
lung,;; in .>hape. '' He had money in 
the bank for buying a hou.>e, pro­
vided it wasn't bigger than a pup 
tent. 

''Then you .>hould certainly start looking for a hou.>e," I said, "be­cau.>e at your age, you aren't getting any younger." 
I left him with hi.> minimum of ten more years to live, planning the dome.>tic arrangement.> for the hou.>e he would never buy. The heaven I could have de.>cribed would have been a.> unreal to him a.> a tree .>rump where babies are found when they're new. Some truth.> will always sound like a lie we tell children. Only the Father tn heaven can speak of t~ose truth.> without .>ounding like a 
·---· 
-----' 
,­
The Observer Friday, March 7, 1980-page 11 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
JOB INTERVIE\.15 AAE OPEN TO SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS IN THE MAY AND AUt;u~n CLASSES ••• ··,,, .ANY W\10 INTEND TO HAVE INTERVIEWS MUST HAVE A COHPLf.TED PROF! I.~. 
(REGISTRATION) ON FILE A'f TilE PLACEMENT BUREAU .••.••••• REGISTRATION, INH:RVIEII' 
SIGN-UP SHEETS AND EMPLOYER LITERATURE All£ IN ROOM 21J, ADHlNISTkATION Rr.uc;. 
COMPLETE EMPLOYER SPECIFICATIONS ON DEGREES, JOB TITLES, UICATIONS ANil Cl'riZESSIIII' ARE GIVDi' IN TilE PLACEMEHT MANUAL, EXCEPT fOR THOSE 00t.OYEII.S AllOW SINt ~: 111~ PRINTING OF TilE HANUAL. 
THE SIGH-UP PERIOD IS FROM 8:00A.M. TO 5:00.P.M., MONDAY TIIIIOUG\1 THUKSIJAY, 
BEGINNING MARCH 3 FOR INTERVIEWS. SCHEDULED FOR THE WEF.K OF MARCH 10. 
PLEASE NOTE INTERVIEW WCATIONS AT THiE OF SIGS-Ur. 
YOU MUST SIGN FOR YOUR INTERVIEWS PERSONAJ.lY. 
DATI .U.jMJCSCLWIIIA 

Har. 10 
~ 
X 
X X 

lunericanNatural Rt"soon· ..s_C~-!!IJ 8 In ME, CE, EE, C0111p Sd, Arct, Fill. 
Atlantic Richfil"ld Comp<~n)' IIHD In Chela. (Analyttical, Oq;:anic, lnuq~.mt<, l'l•v .. l•.ol) 
Boy Scouts of Alrwrlca All lib. Arts. 
X X 

~eorgla Instltuto• uf lechm>logy, F._n_ll~c_L~~i_n_f 
~r-~l~n. 
BliD In EE. HF, HEIO, Cht:, ChL•m, Ptwslt-., H.uh. 
lt:ldustrial Rhd•; lnomn:r" ~i1Eng7dCs~~·s. BIn Phy,.,,._, Uu·~•. 'l1tl,. 
X X X X 

Metropoll tat.J....h.iJ..e_I:..!!_!!_U_~a_!l_<<' C_l~~-ll_I!J 1!. In all dlscil!llm•!o, 
Rock~L·ll lntt•fndl tomal 
MBA.~----·­
M.r. 10/ll Kon/Tv.es. X X 
X X. K 
X 

~c::!_l_O~-c~:5:u.r~-~~~Vl_S_l_A 
BM In 01ll dtscqd in""· JIL 
M.r. 10/11 Hon/Tues. 

~;~uf:~~u~;~~~tj_o>_l!._ol_l__B~-~ ~·_I_ lll'lr~•i_t 
11) MB,O. ~ith Flnann· ,-,.nn'1Hr.tl \.•n. 
~l~!!..'>JI}'_r_t_L__!.~-­
X 
X 

8 in EG, Bus, Ad. MBA. 
Ku .. U ru;;:-. l( X 

Americall t:an ~n.Y Chang~d-t~a-rdt 18. 
X 
X 

~t.b__f..!!_l_ti~.!!,.CE,IIIJ'_!!,!l,l
X X 

B!'1 in EF., ME. II In Comp So·t. 
' ' 

INR'tt."OJ__ i_!l~·. SltlCE. B of An·h. ~IIA ~ill• o;trung ,•nt•il~o·•·rtttJ 
backtz.t""und. Mut.l havt• lntt•n•.,t ttl Sat ..... 
X 
X 

~~~gv_,·rn:t~~••u:_.t_ud_lu!l""-lr•.tlll·•'"'"'' 
81'1 In !>f.. 
P_e.£f.l_".!:.. f._n_~ l~taht • _L<>lt,' ~"ml··~"Y II In CF. E~., ME. 
Kl<. 

l.,_~.'_:_r_!)'__U!i_lvno 
/-' 

... cnucell~·d. 
X 
X 
X 
X 

Aa...rilan Gr.1dUdl<· ~chuul t•l l:•lo·rl•·•• ,,.,,,,) !iou•·•C·' · AT!d-:=-~r····,.· :,n-;1 ~i1·..,· tl,-l•n•·... 
.Usociate& C~rclal Corporation 8 in Fin, Hat-
Castle Metals All BRA. 8 in Comp Sci. 
Federated Inveuors, Inc. (Changed fTom Mar. 18) II in Econ. All IIBA. 
11. f'. Goodrich COI!tpany.~~~c;_ts_!_:r_<~tiJ'
k iiit"n"ME. Fabrleeted Polymer Products, WhL•L·ls ·'"'' ~v brakes, Aircraft Evacu11tion Syst~ms, Conveyo-r lh•lt-., ~,,-;,·, 1.,;,...... Transportation Products. V&rious EnginL•rr:lnJ: positions. Primarily Akrnn, OH. Perm. Itt·-.. VlK-t. 
'l.u.• ~~ 

H~~n_it>.!__lo_.!l!!~n 
8 In Acct. 
Stt~wart-l.'arnL•r Elt•ctronics B In EE, ME, KF.lO. 
UnitedCol!lput~~-!._n.E_.
X 
X '.d 

a In Courp Sci, Hath, Et:. 
'Lir. 1~/J I W•·J/nluf;.. 

llecuonic-Dat~~~ 8 In Hath, Com11 Set. 
Hewitt Associatetl , 
V Management Consultant!'!. II In l1;1th, t_:,.mp So·i. 
for Data Administrato-r,., Bend It An11lysr><, A, tu..rl.•l and Data 8as.. AsslstantH, Plan Adllllnllltratinn Special lists. All BBA for Data Adlllinl!Hratnro;, lhmefit "-nelysis., Plan lrldministrntlon Sp..•clall,.t. Location: t.incolnshtre, It.. Citltl:'nahi.p r•otl· 
t.... ,.... ...l
'1.tr. !I

I I 
X 
X 

AmsteO Industries, Inc. II In ME, Met, 8 In Acct. 
Chicago Tribune All !SA (~refer~obly M\u.) for l.dvut\sln& Sah.·s krj>. 
X 
X 
X 
X 

Chicago Tribune (new sc:h~dule and nquirL•mtml_'!,~ 1!. in all disciplines tor Circulation HanagcTu·nt trelnee for Production, Distribution, S11ll"s, Trano;tmrt.t~ tion, Promotions ln the Chicago &rea. 
X 
X 

Continental Illinois National aank arod Trust Com~V"lt ti.\V. {or Colleg¥ Relat1.one.; 1!. in Lib. l.rts., ll.u... fill­
;i~~ !c~~ !/~~~::n:~~gw~~~r~;\::~ 5 C:pA~~~ ~~; 
Systt•M,.; 

Audit tng, Proct>sa Analyst, Coat 0 Opt~ratlons An.,Jynt. 8 in Hanagemt>~t or I.. lb. Arts with business course~ fnr 011eratlons Supt'rvil!lor. • Loc-atlun: Chicago. Prnn. Rt•fo. VIsa requirrd. 
1'\,u._ 11 
Tlmr-.. 

GARD, Inc. (Sobsidiary of GATX)
X 
X 

BHD In all Engr discl.pllnes and Physh·s. 
GTE Sylvania systet!ls Cro.!:!£ HHD in in EE, ME, Comp Sci· 
){ v_ Tektronix, ~~;~tiurment Equip~~~ent and Gr<lphlcs COIIIIunl­1"--) ~~ !!~~~~:~ics H In H!IO, EE, Ca~~p Sci. HilA wilh h't·h
/. V'"j 

bockg<oued. 
Uoiun Carbid"' Corporation -Linde Divlsion Cr enic t:qulpment, tnd~tt"ial Cas Prod\l,ct\on .:md
0
,Di~t~ibut ion, Waste~ater and Solid l.'a,;t~n T~::~~m•·nt • Air pollution control Processes. B . · ,;!'./ Varloos Accounting posltionll. VariOuK <<liiiJ><~IIY 
1;..../ locatiCiru:. P••ntt. R¥s. Villa rrqutn•d. 
~~ 
'!.or ,,. 

L. s. Ayrt~s t.'Company 
in t.tb. Arts and Bus. Ad.
8 
' ' 

/ ~---BinDI~~-/~IT~ating F.qulpnwnt. All B.HA. II tu V/~upy Agt~ wll~Ktrnn~ 1•mphds.ls <Jnd lnt<•rest In SaJ<-,, 
S X 

V~:Ihl. Chica~•'• D~·tn>lt, 
r !ndl;\n.ll"'llo;, l:••lumhu···
~ 
S.t•'l>· f',rn1• lh·ti, Vl"'ot. 
H hes Conauuc:t1on eo.pany ,
l/fti.f'l a. ·~ojec:t Man•&ers, Construction, varh>UM ~ V ~~eh Operetions. Indiana, Ohio, Kentucky. 1 /I Citizenship required. 
Election '80 

Committee urges Ford to enter 
(AP) -Gerald R. Ford inched jump into the race.'' Ford to run." closer yesterday to enterin~ the In Maine, Reagan's state Ford suggested Wednesday presidential race, as a nauonal chairman, Howard Da.ta Jr., night that he had a better Draft-Ford committee was predicted the Republican cam­chance of beating Carter in formed to encourage him to paign would become a two-man November than any other· Re­make the jump. If enough race betwe~n Ford and the publican. "It's a real question people ask, the former pres­former California governor "as of electability," he said. Ident said, ''I'd have a hard soon as Ford jumps into the The cross-country quickening time saying no." race.'' of interest in a Ford candidacy 
In Connecticut, the day after prompted Rep. John B. Ander­Creation of the draft com­Sen. Howard Baker of Tenn­son, surprise second-place win­mittee was announced by for­essee abandoned the GOP race, ner in the Massachusetts and 
mer Air Force Secretary Thom­

his two top state campaign Vermont primaries this ~ee~, as C. Reed, who said Ford chiefs announced yesterday to urge Ford to remam m 
should know that many Amer­they were switching their sup­retirement. Anderson said in 

icans agree he ''offers the best port to Ford. They said they New York that "Mr. Ford does alternative to the bankrupt would· support a Ford-Baker not need to disturb his retire­
......

polici~s" of the Carter admin­ticket at the Republican Na­ment and ride to the rescue of tstrauon. tional Convention in July. the Republican Party. I can get In, New York, formation of a the nomination and I am elect­
Reed urged Ford partisans to 

Delaware Committee was an­able."
express their support in cards nounced at a news conference In Orlanda, Fla., GOP can­and letters to Ford's Palm also attended by chairmen of. didate George Bush said heSprings, Calif., home. 

similar committees in New York would not get ''scared or ... rollThe former president said in and New Jersey. over and get out <if the way'' ifSt. Petersburg, Fla., he had State Rep. Roger P. Roy, who Ford entered the race. Butbeen given pledges CJfHstipport" is leading the Draft-Ford Bush conceded that a Fordfrom Democrats and independ­movement in Delaware, said candidacy would "complicate"ents as well as Republicans in the tri-state effort was an .his own campaign because both the past several months. H_e attempt to send "a clear mess­men appeal to moderate Re­invited them to make thetr 
age that the Northeast wants publicans.
support public._ ln a flurry ot activity indicat­
ing he was laying the ground­work for announcing his inten­tions soon, Ford made plans to meet Monday with John Sean,>, who was ousted as Ronald Reagan's campaign director tJ:le day of the New Hamp~l'ure primary on Feb. 26. 
Ford then will fly to New York and Washington for meet­ings with GOP political leaders and former congressional col­leagues on whether he should run. One aide hinted Ford might make an announcement as early as next week. 
Syndicated columnists Row­land Evans and Robert Novak said Ford had disclosed in an interview he had decided to enter the GOP contest and, barring the unexpected, would make his announcement on March 20. 
Gov. Vic Atiyeh of Oregon said the former president had telephoned Wednesday from Florida to ask about the mech­anics ofgetting his name on the GOP presidential ballot in Ore­gon's MaY'xcr·p.r'tinary. 
During their conversation, Atiyeh said, Ford asserted that "some things are going on beyond his control . . . whtch is of course a kind of groundshell movement by many around the United States to get Ford to 
. ..Stassen 
[continued from page 5] 
--Government Education Assistance. "We have to reverse the entire federal edu­cation .assistance program and ' move the money from grants through the students, not the colleges, the way the G.l. Bill did after World War II. This would cut overhead costs, and turn the whole education sys­tem back around to where it centers on students,· not col­leges scrambling for federal grants.'' 
--Civil Rights. "The wrong way to achieve racial integra­tion is busing. It just aggra­vates the situation. The ri&ht way is to give big compames s~;>ecial contracts to go 10 and htre inner city youths to work on public improvement projects.'' 

.. -...................................................................... . 
NOTRE DAME'S GREAT BOOKS PROGltAM 
Consider a truly
ffj~~ 
HUMANISTIC EDUCATION 
~6"~ ~ 
talk with faculty and students 
~~f
~~~)'} MondaJ March 10, 7:10P.M. GliACB PIT GENERAL PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 

Roundtrip from 

RoundtripNew York 
from Chicago to Luxembourg to Luxembourg 
No restrictions 
Confirmed reserva1ions • free wine wi1h dinner, cognac after • no res1ric1ions on slays 10 I yr. or advance purchase. Prices valid from U.S. from March 10 1hru May 14, 1980. All schedules and prices subjec! !o change and govern nem approval. Purchase 
1icke1s in !he U.S. · 
• 

r--------~----------­
see your !ravel agen! or Wn!e Dep!. ff'C;\; I lcelandair P.O. Box 105, West Hempstead, NY 11552. Call in NYC, 757-8585; elsewhere, call 800-555-1212 for the 
toll-free number in your area. Please send me: 0 An lcelandair flight timetable. 0 Your European Vacations brochure. Name__________________________________________ Address _________________________________________ 
City _______________~----­
State ------------------Zip,____________________ 
ICELANDAIR 
Still your best value to Europe
L ------------­



~-------~----~-­
The Observer -Sports Friday,M~ch 7, 1980-page 12 

jim Mladenik [left] conquered Ted Meyers and earned a berth at 150 lbs. in the Bengal 
Bout finals on Sunday. (photo by john Macor]. 
[continued from page 16] 

Kilb staggered McCaffery with
I a stremendous right hook to 
I garner the neccessary points for victory.~ Returning runnerup Jim Mla­denik disposed of a feisty Ted Meyers with strong body pun­
I ches to win unanimously.
I Kilb will try to win his second 
I 
Bengals crown against Mlade­1nik, who is very hungry for his 
~ 
first 

1~5 POUNDS: Barry Tharp, displaying thunderous right hooks, beat Pete DeCelles in another major upset. The match, a brawl from its incep­tion was a contest between two 
extremely strong punchers. The result was a wild slugfest which brought the crowd to its feet as Tharp won unanimously. Mike Marrone defeated Chris Digan in one of the evening's five split decisions. The taller Digan kept Marrone at bay with his long reach in the first round, but Marrone scored more points in the second and third with left jabs and right hooks. 
fharp and Marrone, both powerful inside fighters, should create anotqer crowd-pleaser on Sunday. 
160 pounds: Law student Tom McCabe, utilizing a classic boxing style, won unanimously over Mark Leising. McCabe 


LEGAL 

BASEMENT, NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL 'J""·" LECAL ~ID & DEFENDER ASSOCIATION 
ROOM 8·12 283·7795 11 am · 2 pm CIV. · F) other times by appointment 
W[ HANDLr ALL I:INANCIALLY Ql.JALIF'IED STUDE:NTS & ST~f_f 
SAPS pr•a•nta on Satutday Match 8th  
TOm CHAPIN In conceit~~~~~ Jlk St. mary's Little Theater 9:30Pm  
unr•a•tv•d a•atlng 3.00 'tlck•ta through th• amc programming offlc• · 284-41761  

... Bengals 
remained in control the entire fight with his long right jab and left rounters. 
)1m Nester beat Tony. Cortese 
in another split decision. Cort­
ese took charge in the beginn­
ing but Nester retaliated with 
several flurries in the latter 
rounds. 
McCabe and Nester wiij bat­
tle for their first championship 
on Sunday. 
165 POUNDS: Two-time fin­
alist) im Devine defeated gutsy 
Rick Keenan in a unanimous 
decision. Devine's flailing 
swings would have felled most 
bouters, but Keenan held his 
ground for the distance. 
Dan Flynn pulled out all stoppers from the first bell tQ' the last. In an intense confronl­ation, Flynn defeated form\d­able Doug Maihafer in a unani­mous decision. Both boxers traded some thunderous blows, but the beserk Flynn landed a few more to advance to the finals. 
It's sure to be a real brawl as the tenacious Flynn meets the lefty roundhouser Devine. 
170 POUNDS: Mike Pullono showed championship form as he bobbed and weaved his way to a unanimous victory over Mark I.Kirasich. 
Cheerleader Mike Budd util­ized left jabs and straight rights to defeat Glenn Pacek in an unanimous decision. 
Both Pullano and Budd throw straight right power punches. Sunday's clash between these two potent individuals will be a delight to watch. 
17~ POUNDS: This is the cinderella division of the Bouts as all participants were novices at the start. Now, Mike Burke and]im Burel bach remain after their triumphs over Tony Aiello and Bob Stewart respectively. 
HEAVYWEIGHT: Pat Boggs impressively defeated walk-on Mike Walsh with a persistent yet powerful left jab. Sunday, Bosgs takes on returning heavy­weight runnerup Sean McCor­mick. McCormiCk and Boggs have trained together for over tow months and McCormick credits Boggs as his main inspiration m boxing. This match between two friends should be an interesting and exciting match .• 

Moore leads SMC fencers, seeks greater interest 
by Deirdre Grant Sports Wnter 
Saint Mary's varstiy fencing! Many students on campus blankly stare back and ask the speaker to kindly repeat what has just been said. The speaker, who will gladly restate herself, is Sharon Moore, a native Texan and two year captain of the Belle fencing team. 
Moore came to Saint Mary's as most freshmen do, searching for her own spot in college life. Little did she know that one casual glance at a sign encoura­ging (begging??) anyone inte­rested in fencing to attend a meeting would set her on the way to a new, successful and personally satisfying endeavor. 
''Freshman year I knew I wanted to involve myself in something unique," said Moore. She attended the meeting and now finds herself three years later as the number­one varsity fencer at the Col­lege. 
Perhaps an important fact that hasn't been mentioned is that Moore had never heard about fencing before. Unfortu­nately, according to Sharon, this is still the case with many students at Saint Mary's. 
Fencing at Saint Mary's gained varsity status just four years ago. Moore quickly points out that Michael DeCic­co, Notre Dame head fencing coach, is the reason for the existence of a competitive 
team.  She  related  that it is  
difficult  for  Saint  Mary's  to  
finance  the  team  adequately,  

and "Coach (DeCicco) took it upon himself to see that there could be a team. 
''He knew we were capable of doing well, "said Moore. 
The Saint Mary's team prac­tices every day at Notre Dame, fences with the Irish team, and travels right alongside them to 
ND women return 

Nine ND alumnae will retun to campus this weekend to share their personal stories about careers, marriages, and life after graduation in the Library Auditorium, Satuday i from 1 to 3 p.m. 
The program is hewing spons­ored by the Women's Advisory Council. 
Chess Club 
sponsors: 
tournament 

The Notre Dame Chess Club is sponsoring a three round chess tournament tomorrow in LaFor­tune Ballroom. The tourna­ment is open to· students, professors, and members of the South Bend Chess Club. Regis­tration for the tournament is at 9 am in the Ballroom and the first round will begin at 9:30 am 
Prizes will be awarded to the wmners. 
meets. 
Once again, the man Sharon 
give complete credit to is 
DiCicco. More than once 
Moore has said "without him, 
there just wouldn't be Saint 
Mary's fencing." 
''Though the College finan­
ces us, Coach DiCicco under­
writes a lot of the expenses 
himself," ads the junior nur­
sing major. 
It was DiCicco that took 
Moore out to find blue warm­ups for the girls and his wife /that searched for robes needed 
during the meets. 
Greg Mueller is the assistant 
coach who works closest with 
the girls and Moore also loads 
praise in his direction. He is so 
beneficial to each team mem­
ber," said Moore. "Greg 
Mueller takes a real interest in 
each girl, giving encourage­
ment and valuable advice." 
For Moore, fencing is a very 
important part of her life. A 
season record of 28-10 verifies 
the fact that hard work and 
dedication were necessary. 
Fencins-is a very physical and 
strateg1c sport. Though it's 
individual in many aspects, it is 
the overall team effort that 
racks up points in the win /loss 
columns. 
Coach DiCicco is careful to let 
all the fencers know that when­
ever grades start dropping, so 
do the foils. Moore has never 
found a problem balancing her 
rigorous nursing schedule with 
fencing. 
"I find fencing relaxing. It 
takes many of the everyday 
academic strains and tensions 
away," explained Moore. · 
Her fencing career is some­
thing that Moore will always 
thank Saint Mary's for. It has 
been a "college experience I'll 
never forget.'' 
This week the fencers are 
preparing for Saturday's Great 
Lakes Championship. After 
that, Moore will travel with one 
other Saint Mary's fencer to 
Ohio State for the National 
Inter-Collegiate Women's Fen­
ting Association (NIWF A) tour­
nament. 
Tournament action is not new 
to'Moore. Last summer Saint 
Mary's -financed her trip 1to·the 
Nanonals in Colorade Springs, 
Colrlrado. She is hoping that 
the College will do so agatn this 
summer when the tournament 
will b11: held in New York. 
Saint Mary's is quietly ma­
king a name in the fencing 
arena. Each year the team's 
reputation grows and people 
are awakened to the fact that 
yes, therf is a varsity sport 
called fencing at Saint Mary's. 
According to Moore, next 
year's team may be the stron­
gest and most experienced ever 
fielded from Saint Mary's. 
Moore would like to see the 
sport receive more publicity. In 
the future, Saint Mary's hopes 
to host more fencing meets at 
the Angela Athletic Facility, 
which is a perfect design for the 
sport. Another Moore dream is 
that perhaps fencing could be 
offered in physical education 
classes, as it is at Notre Dame. 
In her own very dedicated 
way,SharonMoore 1s striving to 
develop student interst in the 
sport. She takes personal pride 
in the team, talks about it to 
anyone willing to lend an ear, 
and next semester will be out 
tacking signs up all over cam­
pus, hoptng that wandering 
eyes will just happen to grace a 
glance. After all, isn't that the 
way the story started? 
' 


Friday, March 7, 1980-page 13 
The Observer -Sports 

Sports Briefs._----. 
Starkappeals AlAWruling 
Dennis Stark, coach of the Notre Dame swim team, has filed an appeal to an earlier decision by the AlA W concerning four of~is team members, Betsy Shadley, Jeanine Blatt, L~ Ann Bnslawn and Kathy Latino. The new ruling wi.ll be released Tuesday. All four women have qualified for the AIAW's Sma~l College Swimming and Divin& Championship. The first rulmg by that organization elimmated the Irish women because the four compete with the men's team when a women's team exists. Stark filed the appeal claiming that the women's team is actually only a club sport while the men's team is a varsity sport. Both Shadley and Blatt received All-American horrors at the Small College Champ­ionships last year. 
Gymnast conclude 1979-80 season 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Gymnastics Team closed out its third season last weekend at the Purdue Golden Grips Classic. The Irish, defending champions of the Classtc, finished first in the women's division while the men finished behind host Purdue. The meet marked the end of the founders of the team, seniors Bob Meehan, Dan Howley, John Paulik and Bob Breyer. In the all-around competition Brian McLaughlin finished first for the Irish, with Dan Howley and Bob Meehan taking third and fourth respective­ly. In the women's all-around, Helen Cho took second, 
·Stephanie Micek third and Roberta DePiero fourth. 
Ali announces comebackbid 
NEW YORK (AP) -Now that Muhammed Ali is under contract to make a bid for his fourth heavyweight championship, the wheeling and dealing has begun in earnest. Ali's latest comeback calls for a late June tide fight against John Tate, but a site still needs to be found. Promoter Bob Hrum said "My attorney will leave for Taipei, China, Saturday and will report back to me." It has been known for some time that Tatwan was being considered as a site and Hrum admitted Thursday that if an Ali-Tate fight is held, it would be worth more money there than in the United States. Hrum also said he would go to Knoxville, Tenn., Monday night to meet with Ace Miller, manager of Tate, the World Boxing Association champion. Hrum also said he would talk to Don Manual, manager of Mike Weaver who will fight Tate in Knoxville March 31. 
Tom Michalek and Greg Meredith will lead the Irish hockey team against Mich · th · 
weekend. [photos by Greg Maurer]. zgan zs 
SATURDAY
NDlifters 

:MARCH8,198
to compete 
7pm-3am 
•
mtourney 

BUDWEISER
Kevin Humphreys (165), John Leon (242) and Greg Folley (198) will represent the 

2/$1.00
Notre Dame Weight Lifting 'Club on Sunday at the Ander­

********************************* 
son College Open Bench Press 

-SIGN UP NOW FOR CORBY'S-
Tournament. Humpreys and Folley, both juniors, and Leon, 

-ARMWRESTLING TOURNAMENT-
a senior, are coached and sponsored by Pete Broccoletti . 

[continued from page 16] 
offs." "'nJMichtgan split with•Michigan 
State last weekend. The Spar­
tans won the· first night, 5-4, in 
East Lansing while the Wolver­
ines took the second game of 
the home-and-home series, 6-1. 
This is the first time in three 
years that Michigan has quali­
fied for the playoffs. The last 
time coach Dan Farrell's club 
made it to post-season play, it 
went as far ~ the national 
tournament. 
Murray Eaves leads Michi­
gan in scoring with 36 goals and 
46 assists for 82 points. Dan 
Lerg and Bruno Baseotto follow 
with 74 points each. Defense­
men Tim Manning and John 
Blum are enjoying banner 
years. Manning now holds the 
record for points in a season by 
a defenseman with 49 while 
Blum posts 47, which also 
betters the previous mark of 46. 
Paul Fricker has appeared in 33 
of 36 games in goal and posts a 
goals against average of 4.30. 
"Sure, we won and tied last 
time we played Michigan in 
Ann Arbor," says Smith, "but 
as I said, the playoffs· are a 
whole new season. We must 
try to avoid the defensive lapses 
which have hurt us this year. · Otherwise, our season is over.'' 
To add to Notre Dame's task 
this weekend, sophomore cen­
ter Dave Poulin (Mississauga, the left thigh Saturday and is questionable for this series. 
Two Irishplayers continue to close in on school ·records>. Senior right wing Greg Mere­dith (Tororito, Ont.) scored one goal last week and now totals 35 this year and 99 in his career. He has already established the Notre Dame record for goals in a season by a senior and by a right wing. He needs four more to tie Eddie Bumbacco's record of 103 goals in an Irish career. 
Junior defenseman Jeff Brownschidle (East Amhurst, NY) sco-!7d two goals and added two ~/\~IS'I:s last weekend to raise h,s season totals to 14 goals and 32 assists for 46 points. He needs one more goal to tie the mark for tallies m a season by a defenseman, held by Paul Clarke. Brownschidle also is nearing two defensive records set by his brother, Jack, in the 1976-77 campaign. Jeff needs three more assists to tie that mark for a single season and two more points w equal that record for a single year. 
Irish Notes 
Notre Dame and Michigan Tech are the only two teams which have never missed the WCHA playoffs in their league history. . . in eight previous playoff seasons, the Insh have played a total of 18 games and have been on the road for six of those playoff campaigns ... the 
...leers 
goals per game in playoff competition while its opponents have scored 84... Notre Dame average5'3.35>"goals per game in playoff competition while its opponents average 4.67 . . . Notre Dame has made it past the first round only once, in the 1972-73 season when it beat D:~ lost to 
Wisconsin. . . the Irish faced Michigan once the playoffs, in 1975-76 Notre Dame finished fifth the Wolverines ended fourth.. Michigan won the first total goals series 12-8. Wolverines had an 8-3 tage after the first the Irish 5-4 the next night. . . at Yost Ice Arena, Notre Dame posts a 13-8-1 record since the 

THEPHILADELPI-llASTORY 
Thiu-s., March 6, 7&9 
PAT ANDl\11KE 
Fri., March 7, 7, 9, 11 
ADAM'SRIB Sat., March 8, 7, 9, 11 ln CMrollHall SMC 
• 

The Observer -SportsBoard Frid~y,March 7, 1980-.page 14 
~

Molarity by Michael Molinelli 
Pigeons by Jim McOure/Pat Byrnes 




Basketball 
NIT 
First Round Boston Coil. 95, Boston U. 74 DuQuesne 65, Pittsburgh 63 Michigan 76, Nebraska 69 Mississippi 76, Grambling 1'4 SW Lousislana 74, Ala.·Birmingham 72 Texas-EI Paso 58, Wichita St. 56 
NOTRE DAME··Lally 11·2 3, McManus 31·3 7, Conboy 1 0-0 2, Llebscher 1 3·4 5, Hicks 3 0-1 6, Cashman 5 0·0 10, Matvey 6 1-5 13, Politskl 4 1-5 9. Totals 25 7-20 55. 
21. Fouled out : Krause. T~hhP.rt 
NCAA TOURNAMENT East Regional Iowa 86, Va. Comm. 72 


Tennessee 80, Furman 69 
Mideast Penn 62, Washington State 55 Purdue 90. LaSalle 82 
Midwest Missouri 61, San Jose St. 51 Kansas St. 71, Arkansas 53 
Wast Clemson 76. Utah State 73 Lamar 87, Weber State 86 
S\\:imming 

After 5 of 18 events in the Mldwest Invitational Championships held in Nor­mal, Illinois: 
Western Kentucky 151 ACROSS 36 Actress 55 Pitcher 25 Emulated 
Bradley 87 1 FDA's pet Joanne Doug Mata Hari 
lncliana St. 85 5 Home 37 Make ale 58 Winglike 26 Limerick 
Eastern Kentucky 74 10 Young 38 Colonial 59 Polite rhyme 
Illinois St. 51
The Daily Crossword 
Notre Dame 42 14 After amas Silas dinner 27 French oyster diplomat words at scheme 
Illinois-Chicago Circle 38 15 Stringed 40 Garment 62 In case marshal 
Wisconsin (Milwaukee) 10 instruments 41 Cudgel 63 Nourishes 28 "Things 
Evansville B Valparaiso 616 Laundry 42 Farmer's 64 "Take-have come 17 Occur place from me" to a-" 500 yard freestyle: Michael Hilger19 Villa d'-43 Famed 65 Netting 30 Russian 4:54.50 (11th out of 40)20 Occult theorist 66 Grove range 
200 yard individual medley: Greginitials 45 "Head 'em 67 Stoic 31 Film Stu 
Battle 2:00.71 (11th out of 60)21 Authentic off-" 32 Radiant 
50 yard freestyle: John Komora :21.74 22 Dinsmore 48 Billy's DOWN 34 Capable 
(3rd of 44) 23 Feline mate 1 -the music 39 High notes 
1 meter diving: Paul McGowan 365 boot wearer 49 Irish poet 2 Otis of 40 Alumnus, 
points (7th); Betsy Shadley 356 points 24 Rope fiber 50 Mimicked baseball for short 
(8th) (field of 22 divers) 26 Sufficient 52 From John 3 Light 42 Trade 
400 yard medley relay: Notre Dame 29 Tons Paul II provider 44 Part of a 
3:40.68. (Battle, John Wlllamowski, Mike Shepardson, Komora) (7th out of 10)
33 Dawn 54 Child's 4 Had lunch vengeance 35 Stir up activity 5 African motto plants 46 Fireside Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 6 Steer 47 Menu items clear of 51 Outdated 

Bond
7 Exam 52 Miami tree 8 -Moines 53 To shelter 9 Curve 54 Incubator 
to
10 Big waves cry 
11 Bequeaths 55 Assess 
12 Italian 56 B-baker 
lecture
wine 57 Letters for 

13 "Of -I a letter Sing" dept. 
Georgia legislator ] ulian 

18 More loyal 59 Between 
Bond has rescheduled his 
22 Latin pvt. and 
appearance for 7:30 P.M.
catch-all cpl. 

tomorrow in Washington Hall.
23 Earth 60 Zodiac sign 
turner 61 La-, The lecture is part of th~)~l~c~
3/7/80

© 1980 by Chicago Trlbune·N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 
24 Golf club Bolivia Cultural Arts Festival and is entitled ''Politics'' in the theme of ''The Portrait of Blackness.'' 
All Rights Reserved 

AIR FORCE ALWAYS NEEDS MORE LEADERS. 
you are cordially invited to ~h,e 1980 
. BIRTHDAYBUSTER 
··a celebration for all... 
. .. 

especially for ye' who b.ave been borne in march 
,, 

FEA TTJRING MUSIC BY 
........ MA'NHA TTEN........:.I 

We're looking for pilots. . navigators . missilemen engm~rs. math maJors. . people managers doctors scientists Journalists and more And the Air Force ROTC program is a great way to get 1nto a JOb like one of these whach can help you Improve your leadership ability and your professional compe tence 
············ Jt>~<:>JrEC::T··············· 
As a commi~sioned officer in the Air Force, you can be proud of the role you 
play in your community and the contribution you mak(> to your country's securtty You can know that you're domg a job of Importance, a job wath responsibility 
mon. march 10 . 

The Air Force ROTC program offers a way to help you ach1eve these goals A'.J.
bl b dd. 
vegeta e u 1es 8:00pm to 2:00am 
an AFROTC cadel. you'll learn abourleadershrp. managemenl. and more. You11 learn about benefits of being an officer later on. like an excellent salary. medical and dental care. housmg and food allowances, and 30 days of pa1d vacation each year. You11 discover a whole new world open to you In the A1r Force. And you can
1 $5.00-all the beer · 
gel !here rhrough AFROTC Look inlo il rtohl away. You11 be glad you did
and mixed drinks you can consume 
For additional information call 211[) re4uired nd/smcprivateparty 
CPT. Davis at 283 -6634 
Gateway to a great way of life. 


. , 


.r 
... 

Friday, March 7, 1980-page 16 
SJ2orts 
On Sunday 

Bengal boxers head for finals~ 
byLeoLatz 
Inoneof the best fights of the ing jabs. 
Sports Wn"ter 

evening, Bob Murphy pinned Two-year bouter StephensTim Broderick against the ropes meets rookie Mohan Sunday. Napl?y was beaming with time and time again with left 147 POUNDS: Tony Ricci 
pride m the shadows of the jabs and right hooks, but Brod­wrote another chapter in his boxing ring at the ACC last erick kept fighting out with ~uest for Bengal Bout immorta­night. And all the Bengal Bout combinations in this barn-burn­ltty as he defeated Mike Mulli­alumni from the past fifty years er. Both fighters battled toe-to­gan on a technical knockout. would have been proud if they toe from the sound of the first Ricci appeared to be in serious 
were here for the semi-final bell until the last, with Murphy danger when Mulligan scored round of the Bengal Bout a~vancing on a unanimous deci­with several right-left combos. extravaganza. siOn. This enflamed Ricci and the 
For this year's Notre Dame Sunday, Murphy challenges three-time champ pinned Mulli­Boxing Club put on a show tested veteran Borgatti. gan in the corner with a flurry yesterday that would rival any 133 POUNDS: It was the or rights and lefts. national sporting event. All upset of the evening. Rich Tom Bush used his southpaw twenty-one bouts were fast and Hillsman stunned returning fin­advantage to overcome John furious as each boxer gave his alist Rocky Romano with a long Donovan in a split decision. all in the quest for a Bengal jab. The stocky Romano could Bush's left hooks in the third finalist jacket. But more im(>Ort­not overcome Hillsman's height round gave him the necessary antly the competitive spint of advantage and longer reach. points to win. ' the Bengal Bouts was very Hillsman's one-two combina­Bush is the only one now who prevalent. tions in the final round stifled can stop Ricci from achieving a 
There were some sore noses, Romano's valiant comeback as Bengal Bout plateau that only a few black eyes and perhaps a Hillsman won a spilt decision. three have reached. And Ricci trickle or twu of red. But above Robert Rivera showed that he will have his hands full with the all else, there were the hand­will be tough to beat by left-handed Bush. shakes, the hugs and the smiles defeating Mike Ruwe with an 150 POUNDS: Brian Kilb, that make every loser a winner awesome left hook in a unani­upset in the semi-finals the past' and every winner a better man. mous decision. two years, nearly saw history 
Look for more of the same Sunday's match will feature repeat itself last night. Jim this Sunday at the ACC at 2 the quickness and power of McCaffery nearly pulled oKthe 
p.m. The finale of these 50th Ruwe versus the long jab of upset with aggressive advances Annual Bengal Bouts features Hillsman. and good combinations, but 
"Nappy" helps Tom McCabe [160 lbs.] prepare for the 
more than its share of talented 138 POUNDS: Dan Mohan 
50th annual Bengal Bouts as Mike McMullen looks on.
pugilists. So, be there with continued to show why he is one [continued on page 121 
[photo by Ron Ryback]

NBC's Sportsworld to witness of the best rookies in this year's 
the end of the first fifty years of tourney. He constantly forced 
At Ann Arbor

Bengals. Mike Martersteck to the ropes 
• 

Here are the results from last with left and ri~ht uppercuts. night and the fight card for Mohan coasted m the third to 
leers faceoff against Wolverines
Sunday afternoon: win unanimously. 125 POUNDS: Doug Borgatti John Stephens met Fritz was very impressive against Fisher in the bout between two 
by Brian Beglane straight season. Both games t!rl' the series will be
lightening-quick Jojo Lucero. battle-tested veterans. Steph­::,ports Wn'ter Notre Dame ended the Wes­broadcast back to South BendBorgatti's stinging left jab and ens emerged victorious in an tern Collegiate Hockey Associa­by WNDU-AM radio.
right counter were too much for unanimous decision as he . 
A regular season filled with tion season with a 13-14-1 Michigan finished the regu­
Lucero as Borgatti won a unani­staggered Fisher several times 
ups and down caused by assor-record (17-7-1 overall) for its lar season with a 13-11-2 record 
mous decision. with powerful hooks and sting­
1ted injuries ended for the Notre second straight fifth-place fin­(22-12-2 overall) and grabbed Dame hockey team in a fifth ish. The Irish take to the road the last spot for home ice, place WCHA finish. for the first round of the WCHA fourth place. Notre Dame won 
Although the Irish have playoffs this weekend for a the season series between these 
Players support strike, 
weathered the storm by qualify­two-game, total ~oals series two teams with a 2-1-1 record. ing for the playoffs for the ninth against the Wolvennes of Mich­In the last meeting, at the Yost year in a row, mixed emotions igan. Faceoffboth nights at the Ice Arena Feb. 15-16, the Irish result when you talk about Yost Ice Arena in Ann Arbor is won in overtime, 5-4, and tied,
willplay without contract 
missing home ice for the third scheduled for 7:30 p.m. EST. 5-5. Notre Dame is the only team which has beaten Michi­
(AP) -Many major leaguers like -the Olympic boycott -just gan at home this year. The say they would support a strike speculation." Wolverines had a 17-game un­-but some would rather start Palmer said that under no beaten streak snapped when
Irish women advance
the baseball season without a circumstances will I take a vote the Irish won. contract. now like we did in '72," when a "Finishing fifth is somewhat The executive board of the strike delayed the start of the disappointing after our presea­
after Greenville upset
Major League Baseball Players' season. "I remember how Bait­on hopes,'' said Irish coach Association said Tuesday it more reacted after it was over. Lefty Smith. "But everything would authorize a strike if no They even booed Brooksie ( by Mark Hannuksela in the second half, and after we have been through with agreement with owners is Brooks Robinson.) Sports Wn'ter nine minutes of lead changes, injuries has certainly made the reached by April 1. "My posture is that if we take tQok the lead for good at 44-42 situation different. We are "I've been putting on this a stance like the owners did UPLAND, Indiana --In what on a 20-foot jumper by sopho­pleased to be one of two teams 
uniform for 3 5 years and I don't four years ago and aren't has to be considered the big­more forward MissyConboy. which has never missed the think I CQuld show up for work if willing to give anything, we're gest upset in Notre Dame's The lead reached five, 55-49, WCHA playoffs. the players voted to strike," doing the same thing the own women's basketball history, the on a Molly Cashman steal and ''Now it is a brand new Baltimore Orioles' Manager ers ·did and it backfired ot Irish defeated Greenville Col­break-away lay-up, and the season and anything can hap­Earl Weaver said Thursday. "I them," said Palmer. lege, the number two seed and Irish hung on down the stretch pen. This is what you shoot for can't divorce myself from all New York Yankees team rep­two-time Illinois State champ­for their 19th win of the season. all year long, the chance to the benefits I received from the resentative Reggie_] ackson, de­io.n, in the AlA W Division III A victory over Adrian, ~n make it to the NCAA tourna­
Players' Ass<?ciation." scribing the negotiations as a regional tournament 55-51 here 86-66 winner over host Taylor, ment, and with the way we have "farce," was pessimistic about at Taylor University last night. · would assure the Irish of no been playing oll the road, 
Orioles' pitcher Joe Kerrigan the chances. of a strike being In winning, Notre Dame ad­worse than a second place maybe we're fortunate in not said he would go along with a averted. vances to the second round finish here, and a bid to the getting home ice.'' strike . vote, even though, "I The owners' proposal deals meeting with Adrian College of national Division III tourna­Notre Dame got swept at would lose a home if it lasted with maximum salaries for Michigan tonight at 7 p.m. ment. home by Minnesota in the more than rwo or three weeks. I players based on length of Freshman Shari Marvey led season finale last weekend, 3-2 bought a house last summer service. "How do I go back and Irish scorers with 13 points, 11 and 8-7 in overtime. The Irish and I've got to make mortgage tell players we should accept coming in the first half. · finished the year with a 5-9 payments.'' that kind of proposal?'' Jackson Senior co-captain Molly Cash­WCHA mark at home and an 
But teammates Dave Skaggs asked. man scored eight points in overall record of 6-10. On the and Steve Stone said they Wayne Garland, player repre­leading a 20-18 second-half road this season, Notre Dame would prefer to play without a senative for the Cleveland In­surge, and finished with 10 for was 8-5-1 in league and 11-7-1 contract for awhile. Orioles' dians, said all the players he the game. overall. pitching aces Mike Flana~an talked to indicated that they Greenville's Carolyn Parker I think this year has been the an~Jim Palmer had contrastmg would support a strike. led all scorers with 23 points one of greatest balance for the optmons. Joe Niekro, team representa­while hauling in 20 rebounds. WCHA," said Smith. "Each 
"I think the players will tive for the Houston Astros, Notre Dame led by five late in matchup sports teams which support the association 100 said major league baseball the first half before 15-4 Green­were even in play during the percent," said Flanagan. players are more united now ville spurt gave the Lady Pan­season. That should make for a "Whatever they decide I'll go than they were during the 1972 thers a 33-27 half-time lead. very intriguing round of play-along with. But right now it is strike. The Irish tied the game early
i [continued on ga§e WJ.
I 
I 







