• • • Baseball-Pages 7-10 

VOL. XIV, NO. T66 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TIIURSDAY, APRIL 10, 1980 
Militants threaten to kill hostages ifUS uses force 
(AP) --The young readicals holding 50 Americans in Teh­ran threalened yesterday to burn the U.S. Embassy and kill their hostages if the U­nited States tries "even the smallest'' military move a­gainst Iran. 
T'he Carter administration is hinting at a possible naval blockade of Iran if the hos­ta!!es are not freed. But in W itshingron and other world capitals Wednesday, Ameri­can·diplomats sought the-help of U.S. allies in a broader program to punish Iran econ­omically, a program they say 
could  make  tougher  moves  
unneccessary.  
Secretary  of  State  Cyrus  

Vance summoned ambassa­dors from 20 nations to the State Department to present the U.S. case, and foreign ministers of West European nations were gatering in Port­u&a~ for consultations on the 
Cr1S1S. 
West European an other nations were considering taking action with the United States, but any decision might be weeks away. 
Iran, meanwhile, was also intensifying its showdown with neighboring Iraq. Iranian For­eign Minister Sadegh GHotbz­adeeh told a Tehran new conference Iran has ''decided to overthrow'' the Iraqi gov­ernment of President Saddam Hussein, whom he accused of being "America's agent." 
Border tension between the two countries has heightened since the revolutionary victory in Iran 14 months ago, and it tlared into reproted frontier skirmishes this week. 
The embassy hostages were midway through their 23rd week of captivity in Tehran 
In announcing a U.S. econ­omir embargo and a break in diplomatic relations Monday, Carter warned that "other actions'' against Iran might become necessary. He repeat­edly has considered a blockade or the mining of Iranian ports to cut off economic lifelines. 
The embassy militants is­sued a statement yesterday, read on Tehran Radio, declar­ing, "In the name of God the avenger we plainly warn the criminal government of the United States that if it under­takes even the smallest mili­tary intervention in Iran we will kill all the spy hostages together and we emphatically 

[continued on page 12) 

Baldemar Velasquez spoke on the recent attempts ofFLOC to negotiate worker contracts last night in LaFortune. [photo by joel Annable] 

Velasquez outlines FLOC goals 
Sanctions vs. Iran 


Vance seeks support 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Secre­nute mee nt between Vance and tary ofStatt: Cyrus Vance called the group of allied diplomats, the amba~ :.adors of two dozen Canadian Ambassador Peter countries to the State Depart­Towe said his gover-nment al­ment yesterday as the United ready is doing about all it can. States pressed it"> allies to Its embassy in Tehran has been support new sanctions against closed since the February es­Iran. cape of six Americans who took Department officials said the refuge there. "We're no longer initial reaction of U.S. allies to importing Iranian oil and our the new sanctions, announced trade is insignificant," he said. Monday by President Carter, Canada is nearly self-suffi­was supportive. cient in oil.for other allies, Iran 
But they could not yet cite is a more vital trade partner. specific cases where other go­] a pan imports about 10 percent vernments have joined in any of 
[continued on page 14]
the sanctions, intended to pres­sure Iran to release 50 Ameri­
by Tim Vercellotti StaffReporter 
The efforts of the Farm Labor Organizing Committee (FLOC) in its campaign to gain the right to negotiate a contract with the produce canners was the subject of a program pre­sented by Baldemar Velasquez, president of FLOC, last night m LaFortune Little Theater. 
In characterizing his organ­ization's work, Valasquez said that ''you can cut down a tree with a toothpick; just keep picking until it falls.'' 
The primary weapon that FLOC is using is the strike. According to Velasquez, two thousand workers walked off the job in 1978. The protests continued during last sum­mer's harvest, and FLOC ex­pects the efforts to go on through the approaching sea­son. 
The strikes are supple­mented by picket lines, nightly vigils at the labor camps, and volunteers who talk with the workers in the fields. Velas­quez told his audience that communication with the labor­ers is not always easy. He cited a situation where the tomato fields were surrounded by a crop of corn, thus preventing FLOC members from having contact with the workers. The problem was solved with the rental of an airplane and a loudspeaker. 
Velasquez pointed out that the cause of FLOC is becoming known throughout the country. He supported this claim by reading portions of letters from various parts of the country. 
Velasquez also revealed that schoold throughout the Mid­west have dropped the Camp­bell's label program, and that FLOC representatives are now recieving invitations from labor unions to speak at conventions. Stron support has also come from the northwest, where the state Democratic party in Ore­gon has come out in favor of FLOC's efforts. 
FLOC's leader congratulated Notre Dame for doing its part in spreading the word about his organization by the passage of a referendum banning all Campbell's and Libby's prod­ucts from the University. 
The group has not met with success everywhere. Velasquez related an episode when some FLOC pickets were jailed on a misdemeanor. According to Velasquez, when one of the organization's lawyers tried to have them released, he was assaulted by the local sheriff's deputies. An FBI investigation revealed nothing, and the inci­dent was dismissed. Velasquez explained that the inquiry con­sisted of interviews with the deputies only, in spite of the presence of nearly forty wit­nesses. A recen.t meeting of FLOC members and ] ustice Department officials resulted 
[continued on page 6) 
cans held hostage in the U.S. Embassyin Tehran. 
U.S. officials said they felt it was still too early to expect 

Court consolidates sex discrimination cases 
action from allies, but said responses were expected late this week. by Chip Block 
The United States has asked its alHes to take "parallel The sex discrimination suits filed by]osephine M. Ford and steps" to match the Carter Dolores W. Frese against Notre_ Dame were consolidated by a administration's four-J>oint U.S. District Coun judge on March 26. Both cases concerned the sanctions program, which in­promotion of women faculty members at the University. cluded severing diplomatic re­According to Bridget Arimond, attorney for the plaintiffs, "The lations with Iran and an embar­consolidation will make the court case move along more quickly 
go on all trade except food and and will also save money." medicine. The cases were originally combined but separated because of 
But there is no "check Hst" of problems among the attorneys. The controversy centered around countries willing to cooperate Attorney Kathleen Ross who represented Notre Dame. She with the United States, said allegedly knew John Frc> -husband of one of the pl!!.intiffs. Ross State Department spokesman recently resigned from . lord case because she left the flrm David Passage. He said U.S. that represents Notre Dame in that suit. official.s prefer that each ally The court also ruled that the Equal Employment Opportunity decide on the basis of its own Commission (EEOC) could be admitted in both court cases. circumstances what actions to Before the ruling the commission had only been allowed to take. participate in the Ford case. 
Following yesterday's 45-mi-Another group involved in the suit is Committee W, which represents the women faculty at Notre Dame and is a subcommittee of the Association of University Professors. Elizabeth Gilbert, chairperson for the committee· and a University professor, said that the acceptance of the EEOC would benefit the Ford and Frese cases. 
•'This· will widen the burden of proof,'' Gilben stated. She went on to explain that the burden of proof lies with the plaintiffs and a large organization like the EEOC will relieve some of the bl•rden from Ford and Frese. 
Because the Frese suit is a class action suit, the coun bifurcated the case. This means that the case is spHt into two parts, examination of patterns set by the University concerning women faculty and individual complaints. 
According to Arimond, the case is currently in the examination of patterns stage. 
Thomas Murray, a local attorney representing the University, said that he ':lelieved the consoHdation would have very Httle effect on the court cases. 
The suit involves 64 faculty members and is scheduled for trial on November 17, the date originally set for the Frese case. 
------~~----­

News in brief 
Thursday, AprillO, 1980 -page 2 
Washington capitalists cash 
Pope announces France visit 
in on Mount Saint Helens 
Pope Paul VI, suspended from Rome but was carried off to
VATICAN CITY (AP) -Pope
VANCOUVER, Wash. (AP) -the American free enterprise his priestly functions in 1976 Fontainbleau in 1812 and allow­
John Paul II announced yester­
system is proving equal to the challenge of making a buck and threatened with ex-com­ed to return to Rome two _}'ears
day that he will visit France, the 
form the eruption of Mount St. Helens. Hawkers and munication. later after Napoleon suffered
first pope to do since the
vendors are peddling T-shirts, beer mugs and other John Paul, who summoned the military reverses.
humbling experience of Pius
souverirs of the first volcanic eruption in the continental archbishop for a Vatican meet· During the so-called Babylo­
VII, who went there in 1804 to
United States since 1915. And then there are such items as ing shortly after becoming nian captivity from 1309 to
crow Napoleon I on orders of
volcano ice cream sundaes, volcano cocktails and one pope, has yet to speak out on 1378, all the popes werethe Fr_ench emperor.
"eruption sale" after another. 

his case. The pontiff recently French, all lived at .Avignon and encouraged bishops to accomo­all were under the control of the
Speaking to a crowd of 10,000 gathered in St. Peter's Square 
date Catholics' desires for the French rulers. 
Israeli coin aids consumers 
for his weekly general au­use ofLatin as much as possible For the Polish-born po~, it under the Vatican II gutdelines, will be the sixth trip outside of
dience, he said he will make a but he reiterated the ban on the Italy since he was elected to the 
three-day pastoral visit to the
in battle versus inflation 
"beloved and noble nation" Tridentine Mass, which was papacy in October 1978. He beginning May 30. adopted by the 16th century already has announced plans to Ecumenical Council of Trent · tour six African nations May
TEL AVIV, Israel (AP) -The Israeli half-pound coin, Vatican sources said the 59-or Tridentum -Italy. 2-12. He plans at least twoeroded by inflation and devaluation and now worth just year-old pontiff is expected to On Monday, Lefebvre cele­other foreign trips this year to more than a penny, gets a lot more respect in the United spend most of his time on Paris brated the forbidden Mass in Brazil in July and to theStates. Vendmg machines there treat it like a quarter. The where he will address the U.N. Venice, the ftrst time he has Philip_pines m November.
New York correspondent for the Israeli daily Maariv reports Educational, Scientific and Cul­done so on Italian soil. In his previous travels, thethat the coin is turning up in growing numbers in:>ide tural Organization. The last Roman Catholic pon­pope visted the Dominican Re­coin-operated telephones. laundry machines, newspaper tiff to visit France, Pius VII, public and Mexico in } anuarydispensers and snack and soft-drink machines. 
The sources are billing the went to Paris against his will on 1979; Poland in August; Ireland 
UNESCO address as a major orders from Napoleon I to and the United States in Octo­
papal announcement of ] ohn crown him at Notre Dame on ber, and Turkey in December 
Paul's views on social justice Dec. 2, 18Q4. Pius returned to 1979.
Weather 

and the spiritual need of mo­dern man.
Cold with occasional light snow this morning. Cloudy in the 
RES

afternoon. High around 40. Gradual clearing tonight. low in 
In additioll"to Paris, he is also 
the mid 30s. Partly sunny tomorrow. High in the upper 50s. 
expected to visit a sanctuary in 
THERE WILL BE A BRIEF MEETING FOR ANYONE
Cool Saturday through Monday with a chance of rain on the 
·the small village of Ars near 
weekend. Lows in the upper 30s and 40s. Higi1s in the 50s 
ESTED IN SERVING ON NEXT YEAR'S JUNIO
Lyon dedicated to St. Jean 
north to the 60s south. 
Baptiste Marie Via_nney. _ 

ADVISORY COUNCIL ON 
Influential French prelates 

MONDAY APRIL 14, AT 6:45­
have been pressing the Vatican for an early papal ruling on the 
IN THE LAFORTUNE BALLROOM
CamP-_us_---1 case of mavenck French Arch­bishop Marcel Lefebvre, leader 
INTERESTED, BUT UNABLE TO ATTEND? 
of a traditionalist movement 2 pm MEETING sailing club, new members welcome, in 
with followers in many coun­
PLEASE CALL MIKE (1064)
ROOM 204 O'SHAG 

tries. Lefebvre contends the Second Vatican Council of 1963­
MEGAN (7570)

4:15 pm JUDEO-CHRISTIAN VISION AND THE CORPOR­
65 made improper comprimises ATION SYMPOSIUM "clearing the decks for accountabi­
KEITH (8213)

in approving a simplified Mass 
lity,'' prof. john howard yoder, ND MEMORIAL LIBRARY 
to be said in the modern local LOUNGE, spon. by committee of business, theology & 
language, rather than in Latin. philosophy 
Lefebvre was admonished by 
6:30 pm MEETING leadership trammg class spon. by 
THURSDAY APRIL
campus crusade for christ in the LEWIS HALL REC ROOM 
~The_Qhserxer_ _ 
7, 9, 11 pm FILM "animat house" spon. by student union 
~10
ENG AUD 
Nighl Editor. Steve "Re­
mote Control' ' Swonk 

7 pm FILM ''the missiles of october'' CARROLL HALL 
Asst. Night Editor: Must 

SMC spon. by dept. of government 
SENIORS~ THERE'S NOT 
have got lost 
Copy Editor: Kathy Casey 


MUCH TIME LEFT. THE
7 pm FIRST ANNUAL CHICANO FILM FESTIVAL floc 
Layout Sla: Edd•e "sorry,

fundraiser spon. by mexican american grad students & 
but I nee sleep tonight'' 

REAL WORLD IS BECKONING---­
n.e.ch.a. in the LIB AUD 
Holden, ary Silvi 
News Editor: John ''Virgin'' 

TONIGHT IS MOOSEHEAD
7:30pm LECTURE "the epiphamic mode in wordsworth & McGra1h 
modern literature,'' robert langbaum, u of va. STAPLETON 
Featur. s Layout: Sal Gran­

NIGHT
LOUNGE spon. by dept. of english ata 
Sports La:yout: Tom Schus­
Bottle of 10pm-2am

7:30 pm LECTURE "the history of negro folk music," 
ter, Mike} "boy, did he pick 

MOOSEHEAD 75c
william dawson, composer, conductor, teacher, in CROW­
the wrong night!" Ruhe 

LEY HALL OF MUSIC spon. by glee club 
Typists: The lovely Beth 
Huffman, Michelle Kelle­

MUSTBE ATLEAST2l TO ENTER
7:30 pm JAPANESE FILM "women in the dunes" 
her, Kathy Festin, Brian 

WASHINGTON HALL spon. by sp/ dr & modern & classical Beg lane laguages $1 
EMTs: Paul Selauko, Scoop 
''well, at least I made a lot 

7:30pm LECTURE "violence in the family: the rates & the of money'' Sullivan reasons," dr. murray straus, leading authority on family 
Proofreader: Bruce Oakley 

violence HAYES HEALY AUD. spon. by dept. of sociology 
Ad Design:Anne Fink (ntce

& anthropolgy tan, Anne.( 
Supplement Layout: ] ohn 

;:30 pm LECTURE/SLIDE-SHOW/DISCUSSION "an intro­
Smith, Brian Beglane 

duction to natural family planning," ditty & tim fulnecky, 
Photo~rapher: Joel ''Also a 

natural family planning program of st. joe county GALVIN virgin ' Annabfe :\UD spon. by campus ministry 
Guest Appearances: Ryan 
"No show" Ver Berkmoes,

7:30 pm FORUM ON INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS Margie Brassill conducted by mr. . robert brady, topics: careers in 
international business & mba programs in international 
management in ROOM 117 O'SHAG 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday

8 pm MASTER LECTURE SERIES ''Psychotherapy & except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and
american society," dr. jerome frand, john hopkins u. 
HAGGAR HAU. AUD. spon. by psychology dept. 
Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions

8:15pm CONCERT notre dame concert band ACC spon. by , 
may be purchased for $20 per year

music dept. ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class
9 pm-2 am GIUSEPPE'S PARTY-come show us your tan! 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 
46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. 'All reproduction 

10 pm MEETING students united for responsible energy 
(sure) BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE 
rights are reserved. 





I 
_ _L_ ___ ~·--·-·-­

_l 
~ 

The Observer Thursday , Aprill0, 1980 -page 3 
By air, artillery 
Iran, Iraq do battle 
(AP) -Iranian television said Iran would defend itseff 
yesterday an air battle broke against Iraqi military attacks / 
out over the Iran-Iraq border as and sabotage.
the dispute between the two In Baghdad, the official Iraqi 
countries worsened. news agency said Iraqi security 
The broadcast said one Irani­forces had uncovere a plan for 
an Phamtom fighter and three subversioq backed by Iran but 
military helicopters met Iraqi involving local elements. . 
helicopters over the Iranian The president of Iraq's revo­
border town of Baveissi. No lutionary council, Moslem Ha­
planes were reported shot di, was quoted as saying
down but the battle was re­members of an Iraqi extremist 
ported to be continuing. party had confessed to meetingThere also were artillery m Qom with Ayatollah Ruhol­barrages and rocket attacks, lah Khomeini, Iran's revolu­and 15 revolutionary guards tionary leader, and had agreed were wounded, the television to a plan "for cooperation to .network said. carry out broad subversive acts 
Earlier in the day, Iranian in Iraq." 
Foreign Minister Sadegh Before yesterday's reported
G'totbzeh was quoted as saying air fight, fighting between the 
•· We have decided to over­two countries had been limited throw the Baathist regime of to skirmishes near their BOO­Iraq." The statement, quoted mile border despite an ever the foreign minister as saying escalating war of words. 

USOC to determin.e fate of athletes 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. (AP) -Under heavy pressure from the Carter administration, the U.S. Olympic Committee's House of Delegates will meet this weekend and decide whe­ther to support the president's call for a boycott of the Summer Games in Moscow. 
President Carter sought the boycott in January to protest the Soviet's invasion of Afgha­nistan. He has not softened his stand since. 
USOC officials, although op­posed to a boycott, indicated at the time that they would sup­port the president. But they have been slow to take official action in the hope that the world situation might change before the May 24 entry dead­line. 
This weekend's session begins tonight with a meeting of the 21-member USOC administra­tive committee, composed of the officers and selected repre­sentatives from national gover­ning bodies. Only 13 have a vote. 
One member, rower Anita DeFrantz, said the committee, responsible for the conduct of the daily affairs of the USOC, routinely meets before the House of Delegates convenes. 
However, it is the administra­tive committee's resolution which could be the center of debate when the 300-member House begins consideration of what action shall be taken by the amateur sports arganiza­tion. 
The resolution would grant final decision-making powers to the administrative committee, which could then decide in mid-M~y whether to boycott in Carter still thinks it would be in the interest of national security. White House officials have said Carter will not change his 
position. 
Senior administration aides would prefer for the House to vote to support the boycott Saturday but have said it would be acceptable if the delegates indicate that they will reject the Soviet invitation but delay the formal refusal until a later date. 
The White House officiala said they want USOC su.ppott of a ~ott at this time ao order to ~ other Westaa tl8tiou CD 
~ii. wiah the United Swel. . 



In addition to Carter meeting with athletes at the White House and sending a personal message to the House members and having senior aides brief them at the State Department in the last couple of weeks, the administration reportedly has indicated it might seek to revoke the tax-exempt status of the USOC unless it goes along with the boycott. 
USOE: Executive Director F. 
Don Miller quoted congressio nal sources as saying the admi­nistration raised the }>Ossibility of lifting the USOC s tax ex­emption in a meeting with leaders of Congress-last week. 
A White House official told the Washington Post that the tax­exemption was discussed with Congressional members and others, but emphasized that it is not being proposed at this time. 
[JS-Iranconj1ictcreates -hardship for ND student 
by Mary Fran Callahan Senior StaffReporter 
Due to the recent closure ofthe Chicago based Iranian consulate, an Iranian study­ing at Notre Dame is now doubtful he will be able to attend any American um­versity next year. 
''The visa is not the problem,'' the anonymous student commented. The problem is money. 
He explained that Iranian students must receive all their money from their parents through the Consu­late. Parents are limited as to the amount they may send and formerly could only froward currency every three months. 
Because-he recieved money last week before the Consulate closed, the stu­dent can stay at Notre Dame for the remainder of the year. He also commented that he wants to return next semester but added, "My father (who lives in Tehran) told me that the way things look now I will not be able to come back." 
Since the student's mo­ther lives in Germany, he could easily study in the United States and avoid any visa problems by claiming German Citizenship. He explained though that if he did stay, his father still would not be able to send him money. 
The student plans to live in Germany this summer and if he is unable to return to the United States, he will continue his education in Germany. 
He has, however, retained a glint of optimism. "I am going to do everything as­suming I can come back,'' he commented saying he planned to register for courses next semester. 
RIL 10 1980 
DRAFTS 3/$1.00 
K.AMIKAZEES 504 

-r--------~--.,-----------­
The Observer 


Patncia Hughs rpoke on the issue of women in the Church last night at Carroll Hall, SMC. [photo by joel Annable.] 
WSND 
ANNOUNCES IMMEDIATE OPENING FOR ADVERTISING SALES . MANAGER 
cqll7425 between 3 ana Sfor ENT 

Sprin(l; Concert 
NOTRE DAME f.ONCERT BAND 
TIIURS.APRIL lOth 
A.C.C. University of Notre Dame 
.-\dmi!'lsion Free 8:15 P.M. 
~ J lalJ J r, r )_I r I 
Thursday, AprillO, 1980 -page 4 
Company blitzes kids with letters 
WASHINGTON-More than 100,000 elementary and high school principals had their minds assaulted the other day by a letter from General Foods Corporation on the delights of Incrda Bubble bubble gum. The company, whose 1978 ad­vertising outlay of $340 million is more than the total budge~ o_f the Food and Drug; Admini­stration, sought to assure the educators, via this junk mail on junk food, the Increda Bubble is "a fun and safe" product. 
I'm assured, too. The last time General Foods took my money, through advertising appeals to the threee McCarthy boys to invest their allowances on Pop Rocks and Cosmic Candy, I stared in amazement as the kids bit into this carbonated glop and felt a cheap high as their mouths sizzled and popped. 
I didn't think that food porn was an obsce9ity worth using up what few ounces of parental influence I still had left, so I didn't turn Pop Rocks and Cosmic Candy into what would have been called, at least in my politicized household, ''another 
ISSUe.'' 

It was smart strategy. Soon enough, their mouths bored with the explsions, the boys returned to the time-tested forms of tooth rot like the Milky Way and Oh Henry. I am raising traditionalists after all. 
But for General Foods' Bill Mitchell, the geological wizard who invented rocks that pop, 
• that won't do. As a caterer to experimentalists, he cold the pnncipals of the ''false ru­mors" that circulated five 

including Accounting, Introduction to Compu­ters. Principles of Management, Probability and Statistics. 6 courses in Nursing, including Short-term and Long-term Setting, Systematic Inquiry. Plus a broad range of Music courses for piano, voice, brass, organ and strings. 

years ago about the safety of his fun food. This time around-and with 500 million servings of Pop Rocks and Cosmic Candy having found their way into the obviously brittle digestive tracts of the nation's young-Mitchell is out to squelch early any safety fears about his latest invention. 
lncreda ·Bubble gum, he says is "entirely safe." 
It probably is, though I won't be turning my own mouth into a Yucca Flats testing ground to find out. What's hard to swallow about General Foods­leaving aside the digestibility of its Pop Rocks, Cool Whip, Kooi-Aid, Shake 'n Bake, J ell-0, Gaines Burgers and other prefabricated treats for man and dog-is its determi­nation to exploit children and their diets. 
The Increda Bubble cam­paign is only the latest of General Foods intrusions into the schools. In 1976, General Foods, through its subsidiary Post Cereals, launched its "Box Tops for Fun and Fit­ness" promotion. School prin­cipals were sent letters ex­plaining that as "a handy way to ward off those budgetary blues that may be afflictin~ your physical education area, ' the schools could gee ''free'' gym equipment in exchange for Post box tops. 
It isn't known how many children, mouths awater to enjoy new slides and swings for their playgrounds, filled up every morning on Frosted Rice Krinkles, Cocoa Pebbles and other bowls of candy that General Foods' scientists call cereal. But respected nutri­tionists like Michael Jacobson of the Center for Science in the Public Interest weren't filling up on General Foods propa­ganda. He figured that at an average of $0.89 for a box of Super Sugar Crisp, families spend $244.75 for 275 box tops that earn on $8.99 Spaulding Dribbler basketball. 
Jacobson's magazine, Nutri­
tion Action, stated the obvious: 
"If parents wanted their children's school to have a basket bell that badly, they could contribute several pen­nies each toward the $8.99 and keep serving their youngsters good breakfasts. And, if Post was really that dedicated to physicl fitness and health, it could do away with their most sugary cereals and donate re­creation eq_uipment to sc. ,ools that need It, rather then use the gear to convert elementary schools into high-profit mar-. kets." 
In 1977, principals in three large cities received letters from General Foods an­nouncing the "Kool-Aid Brand Sav-A-Thon." This time, the high-minded company wanted the kiddies to have ''funds for school trips or special equip­ment,'' though presumably not school trips to the dentist to see his new high-speed drill. Kool,Aid envelopes or labels would be worth five cents. 
Perhaps it is progress that in 
its latest letter to the schools, ·on Increda Bubble, General Foods at least isn't disr;uising itself as every child's b1g pal. But it's the kind of progress 
that principals and teachers­
weary of budget fights, low 
reading and math scores, dis­
cipline problems-can live 
without, just as their students 
can use some breathing room 
from the ever-hovering market 
analysts at General Foods. 

Railroads begin service to ailing Rock Islandline 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Nearly all the railroads interested in temporarily operating major segments of the bankrupt Rock Island Railroad have finally begun service, the Interstate Commerce Comission said yes­terday. 
With Congress still dead­locked over legislation to aid the Midwest carrier, 14 rail­
roads  are  providing service  to  
more  than  70  percent  of the  
Rock  Island's  shippers  over  

about 3,000 of the line's 7,000 mile:-of track, said Ken Carter of the ICC. 
Trains stopped running over the rest of the 13-state system March 24 when federal subsi­dies expired. Those trains had been operated under govern­ment orders by the Kansas City Terminal Railway Co. 
Officials, who asked not to be named, said there has been no progress in breaking the im­passe that has blocked legisla­tion to compensate up to 5,000 of the 8,000 Rock Island wor­kers who could lose their jobs when the railroad is liquidated. Leaders of the employee unions warned last week there could be wildcat strikes against the tem­porary orerators if the assis­tance bil is not passed by April 18. 
Also yesterday, the ICC ap­proved a new application from the Santa Fe railroad to tempor­arily operate about xwt miles of track in the Texas and Oklahod rna panhandles. Resumption of that service is subject to an operating agreement between the Santa Fe and the Rock Island's bankruptcy trustee. 
In addition, the comission has proposed a settlement in the dispute that has blocked temporary operation by the St. Lou1s-San Francisco Railway over Rock Island track in Kan­sas, Oklahoma and Texas. 
Although there were service suspensions of up to two weeks before temporary operators took over maJor segments of the system, Carter said shippers apparrently handled the dtsrup­tioEs with no major problems. 
Farm-belt congressmen whose states hJ.ve relied on the Rock Island had hoped for final passage of legislation to help the 128-year-old railroad before the federal subsidies expired. But its approval has been stymied by the insistance of some House leaders that it include major passenger rail improvements. 
With Congress in recess this week, House and Senate staff members have been meeting informally on · the legislation, takin~ note of the wildcat strike warnmgs. "But we haven't worked anything out yet," said an aide to Rep. James Florio, D-N.J ., one of the primarr. backers of the . passenger rail improvements. 

including Foundations of Education, Teaching Ele­mentary Science, Educa­tional Psychology. 9 courses in Pharmacy, including Physical Phar­macy, Social and Behav­ioral Aspects of Illness an<l Health. 


Features 
Moves a solid balance of ballads and rocker~ with th tide track as its
Musicviews 
centerpiece, gave Seger his ftrst successful album in 1976 after nearly a decade of touring. ) oel enjoy~d similar success with The Stranger m 1977, an album that produced four hit singles, including Grammy award­winning "Just the Way Your Are." 
After successful follow-up albums (Stranger in to-Wn for Seger, J2nd street for Joel), both arttsts co~ld approach their latest efforts wtth some piece of mind. No matte~ what they did, the album would still sell well. 
For that reason, Seger's newest release, Against the Wf"nd, h_as to be regard~d as a m!li~r disappomtment. Given :· the arttsttc freedom that success provides, Seger ~ad an o.Pportunity to do some expenme!lta· non, but instead gives us only a sliR~t
Against the Wmd 
variation ofNight Mewes. Althougn 1t cannot be considered a bad ali:Nm,
&bSeger&The 
Seger takes few chances and does exacdy what you might expect him to
Silver Bullet Band do. 
(Capitol) Once ~ this album is pr~ evenly divided between the batladS 
In an era dominated by overnight and hard driving rock and rollers.that sucesses, rock veterans Bob Seger characterize Seger, and the S~er and Billy ) oel were a couple of Bullet Band shares back-up wtth unusual cases in the latter part of the 
Barry Beckett's Muscle, Shoals Rhy· 1970s. Here were two artists who had 
thm Section. This only helps add to paid their dues and were ftnally able 
the predictability of this album. to attract the audience that had 
Seger is at his best on the hard evaded them over the years. rockers on the Witld, which 
A classical music p:l-imer 
Tim Sullivan 
you like a mellower sound, likeYou've always wanted to investi-Jackson Browne or Dan Fogelberg? 
gate classical music, but _you've Or do you... like the structured. always felt intimidated, rtght? 
simplicity of disco? If so, you'llEvery time you've walked past the probably (believe it or not) like thehuge classical section in your local Classical period. 
record store, you've wanted to If you have a fondness for a touchthumb through and pick IJP some­of the bizzare, like Frank Zappa, orthing, but you never knew what to ELP in one of their more electroni­
get, right? . . O.K., here it is-a classtcal mustc 
cally orgiastic moments, sample some 20th Century music. If youprimer for beginners. 
enjoy the ornamentation of main­You don't need a masters degree stream jazz, try Bach. And if youin musical theory to enjoy cl_assi~al like snappy Scot Joplin rags, givemusic. Chances are you wtll hke some baroque harpsichord sonatas asome concenos better than others listen.
for the same reason you like the Beatles better than Kiss-it just If none of these strike a chord (no sounds better. And that's all the pun intended) with you, or if you really matters. But if you really prefer the simple honesty of a ) oni want to understand what's going on, Mitchell ballas or a Coltrane sax there are three things you can do_. solo, consider som piano sonatas and 
First, sign up for an lntroductl~n chamber music. to Music course next semesu~r. It s 
Here are some subjective sugges­not an arduously difficult course, tions to start you on your way.
altl.ough some teachers are more Realize that these are by no meansdemanding than others, so talk to the f10al word, but they are fairlysome people who'ye had _it before to good representations for eachfind out what sectton to stgn up for. 
period._ . .
The imponant thing is you'll lear~ a Start with some Romantic penodlot about musical structures, whtch recordings like Brahms: Pianowill simultaneously enhance your 
Concerto No. 2 or Rimsky-Korsakov:
appreciation and enjoyment of cla~­
Scheherazade. If these have too
stcal music. Of course, you don.t 
much heart-on-the-sleeve emotion­really need a music course, but 1t alism for you, try some Classicaldoesn't hurt. 
pieces like Mozart: Symphony No.
Second go to liv.e concerts whe_n 
40 in C Minor or Hayden: Sym­
you can. Many cities have open-au 
phony No. 97 in C.
free concerts. during the summer. 
If you like these, but wantDon't worry about dre~s codes­something a little fancier, try somethere aren't any. A trlp to sym­Baroque works like Bach:. Branden_­phony hall shouldn't intimidate any­
berg Concerti or Scarlattt: Harpst­
one any more than going to a Cheap chord Sonatas. Ifthese are too fussy Trick concert. . . , · for you, and you found ClassicalThird read classtcal revtews. Its mustc too boring, try 20th Century,
not nec~ssary that you unde~stand 
like Stravinsky: The Firebird Suite 
them completely. But somet~g _a 
or Bartok: Concerto for Orchestra.
reviewer says can prod your cunostty You don't have to run out and buyor strike a response. They can also these records to hear them. Thehelp you figure out what's good and Memorial Library's Audio Centerwhat isn't. 
has a very good collection on ftle andNow, how do you know wh!lt to they are very helpful. Go on up tolisten to fust? Well, what muslC do the second floor and just check o~tyou like now? 
their card catalogue. Don't be afratdIfyou like the up-front raw energy to ask questions or request a recordof the Rolling Stones' '') umpin' Jack or two to ·hear. Once you start,Flach,'' or the emotionalism ?f s?ul 
you'll be on your way. Happyof the blues, you pro~ably _will like listening!
music of the Romanttc penod. Do 
Thursday, Aprill0, 1980 -page 5 
provides the Mly real ncil.~ ~L I f!{this album. "The Horizoatal ~~ i$-:: aided by some strong piano woit by · Mac Rebennack (otherwise lmowa as Dr.John), "Her Sttut" l;>oaata''tome soli guitar work by SeF aocl Drew Abbott ofthe Bullet BanCl, and...Long Twin Silver Line,'' where Seger-~ 
'1

the guts to rh~e Lafite Rotbschild Bordeaux" Wlth "a-letting dw whi­stle blow," is probably the strongest song on the album. . But Seger seems to have lost his touch on the ballads. There's nothing here to rival "Night Moves," or even "We've Got Tonite" off Stranger;,. Town. Harmony vocals by Don Henley, Glen Frey, and Timothy B. 

Schmit of the Eagles help some on 
Glass Houses
''Eire Lake'' and the title song, but the lyrics ~e 3: handicap. ~eger's 
(Columbia)

stories of mghttune love affaus are 'starting to get a little stale. 
Billy Joel

Which brings us to Billy Joel's new album Glass Houses. After charges 
about a guy who is obviously go~g · that h~ was starting to get too swt;et crazy watching the world around him. 
on J2nd Street, Joel comes back wtth a vengence to produce what may be 
You know you can't dri11e ftMt
his best album. As the album cover 
anymore on ihe pt~rft1ays .
shows, Billy's out to break .a fe~ 
Rich man, poor man, ezlher way
windows and shatter a few nottons 10 
Americt~n

people's heads that he might have 
Sho11ed into the loslt~nd fo*nd
reached the limits of his talent. 
The no n*!es yell we're gonna all go
Joel has toug~ened up hi~ act 
to hell

considerably, rely10g more heavily on 
with the next byg meltdow11
guitarists David Brown and Russell 
I got remote eot~irol ada color T.V. 
Javors and drummer ~berty DeVif!o 
I lion 'I cht~t~ge cha•uls so they ..sl 
to propel his song~ mstead of his 
change wu

piano. The style ts almost P~. although not to the extent that Linda 
Perhaps rbe qn~ soog oo GWI 
Ronstadt employs on her latest eff~rt. Ho11sqia ...&•,·SciJI Rock and Rolfio And Joel's tough vocal styl~, ~?i~ Me." J.R" ~ .•Je similar. to Joe he exhibited some on songs like B!B 
J~T~·r1oou • the c!»:C
Shot" and "Stiletto," seems to fit fads in~ 'to the ch•~~ 
well into this genre. 

of rock and roU io,, the past ~­
Lyrically Joel has really out~O;fle himself. He presents some familiar Don 'I ~· · Mfb.,. -~~~~ 1M ,.. themes but adds a little twist to fashio• ho1lnl · make e~ch song really different. 11 All All 'JO* uel .,y /ooh IMfi 11 w~Jo/4 for Leyna'' is your traditional lost· Iotta motui'J love story, only this was just .a It's the 11exlphase, tUW wa11e, tiMice 
one-night stand. The {'O'>C guy 1S craze, t~nywt~ys obsessed with getting this girl back. It's still roclt. and roll to me "Sometimes a Fantasy" deals with a love affair over the telephone, Everyone's talking 'bo*t the 
new "Sleeping With the Television .On" sound 
Funny, but it's still rock and roll to
talks about two wallflowers afraid to meet and "You May Be Right" is me abou; a guy who is rejected because 
The new Billy Joel may soundthe girl thinks he's crazy. Even Joel's funny, even to his most devoted fans, love ballads on this album have an but it's still rock and roll to me. Anduneasy quality that makes you look at pretty damn ~ood rock and roll at· them a little harder. 
that.

But the best songs on this album have little to do with love. "Close to MarkPe"ythe Borderline" is a vicious 
Musicians presen.tPassion Pla 
TrishaClay 
I 

"Whoo so comyth this play to see, the advent of television and the 
vvith goode devocion merelye, hertely decline of reading, we need to remind 
welcom shall he be, and have right ourselves that ''UlURGY IS DRA 
goode chere.'' Thus states The 
MA-WORSHIP IS EXPERIENCE.'' Herald in the opening banns of The The time is ripe for a renewal of our Pilgrim-the No~re. Dame Mus!c faith through 10novation. Already we 
Dept.'s latest offenng. Located 10 find readings of the gospel involving 
Sacred Heart Church, it will run each 
roles taken b'y various lectors. But to night Sun. April 13 th~ou_gh _Wed. truly build a new worship tradition,April16 at 8:15pm. Admtsston 1_ free. 
we must "catch up with our roots." 
This musical liturgical drama ts the The Pilgrim itself is based on threecreation of modern composer Richard Easter Sepulcher plays (12th centu~JProulx. Yet though the work itself is from Fluery, Oleans and St. Quent10. 
·recent, its history and roots re~ch They were originally presented asback to 11th century Europe. Beg10­Matins dramas and center on theing as tropes, or simple :verses death and res~rrection of Christ. · between the alleluias whtch precede Ori~inally presented inseattle for. thethe gospel, (much as is done today), nattonal conference of the Amencanthese proclamations slowly develop Guild of Organists, this is· ·only theinto full-scale dramatic productions­second production of t~e. work andstill within the scope of the liturgy includes some recent revtstons by the itself. Their great s.uccess was .~ue compost;r.
largely to the nonhterary traditton common to the majority of people in So, ''Rejoice friends, and love one that period. Since reading.was for­another as he loves us. Christ, the eign to them, these vtsual and strong Dion, the son of God, who for vocal representations of various our sake hung on the cross, is risen!" biblical events served as a means of Celebrate the great season of Easter instruction for the congreation. with an enjoyable musical and dra­
according to Mr. ~roulx, we ~e n?w matic evening. Be a part of The in the "new non-hterary age. Wtth PJigrim. 

--~----~-----------~----~--­
fhe Observer 

Thursday, Aprill 0, 1980 -page 6 
... Velasquez 
[continued from page I] 
in a reopening of the case. 
Other incidents have also occured in the same area. Velasquez explained that over ei~hty complaints were filed w1th the local courts, and FLOC was ruled against in every case. 
Velasquez was appalled by these events. "We are not dealing with a Klu Klux Klan mentality, we are dealing with something worse," Velasquez claimed. 
Campbell's has not remained silent on the issue. As a gesture of goodwill, the com­pany has offered a substantial grant to the Ohio Welfare 
Acareer in law­
without law school. 
I 
After just three months of study at The Institute for
l 
Paralegal Training in exciting_ Philadelphia, you can have a
l 
stimulati,ng and rewarding career in law or business­
I 
without law school.
! 
j 
l As a lawyer's assistant you will be performing many of
j j 
the duties traditionally handled only by attorneys. And at 
J 
1 
! 
The Institute for Paralegal Training, you can pick one of seven different areas of law to study. Upon completion of your training, The Institute's unique Placement Service will find you a responsible and challenging job in a law firm, bank or corporation in the city of your choice. 
--The Institute for Paralegal Training is the nation's first and most respected school for paralegal training. Since 1970, we've placed_over 3,000 graduates in over 85 cities nationwide. 
'If you're a senior of high academic standing and looking for an above average career, contact your Placement Office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on: 
The Institute for Paralegal
Training® 
MONDAY, APRIL 14 
AC-0035 

235 South 17th Street Philadelphia, PA 19103 (215) 732-6600 
operated by Para-legal, Inc. 
Approved by the American Bar Association. 
Department to be use·d for such 
things as day care centers for 
the children of the workers. 
Velasquez called thi"s "an undermining of our (FLOC's) position." Claiming that this IS a ploy to convince the public that Campbell's is trying to help the workers, Velasquez s~id that the accertan~e of this aid on the part o Oh10 would be akin to strikebreaking. 
Velasquez conceded that the offered assistanct> was a step in the right direction. "Now they are admitting that they have an obligation to the workers,'' Velasquez said. 
He stressed the idea that instead of dealing with the ~ state, the companies should be more direct. "Campbell's should be talkin~ to the farm­workers," he sa1<i. 
The aim of FLOC, According to Velasquez, is to get the canneries and the workers to the same bargaining table. As it stands now, companies such as Campbell's and Libby's sign contracts with the growers. The Laborers have no say in the matter. 
FLOC intends to continue an active pursuit of its goals. This will be done by reinforcing the support committee, and by expanding the organization throughout the United States, Canada, and Europe. 
Velasquez closed his talk by explaining FLOC's strategy. 
"We fight with our bodies, our labor, and our time. We have withdrawn our labor; now we will fight with our time. Campbell's must use money to fight us, money that is spent in sending representatives all over the country. Money will run out before time, and that is our format for winning," The FLOC leader explained. _ 
Dawson 
to direct GleeOub 
William Dawson, nationally renowned composer, conductor and teacher, will be a guest of the Notre Dame Glee Club during a three-day· visit to the campus bt>ginning today. The organizer and director of the world famous Tuskegee Choir will dismss ''The History of Negro Folk Music" in a public lecturt> at 7:30 tonight in Crowley H.JI. 
Dawson will also participate in an open rehearsal of the Glee Club at 5 p.m. tomorrow in Washington Hall and direct the all-male singing group at the annual spring concert at 8 
p.m. Saturday ;n Washington Hall. The public is in •ired to attend at no charge. 
Singing groups conducted by Dawson have performed before _ Presidents Hoover and Roose­velt, visiting heads of state, and have appeared on many national •·adio and television show. Concerts have been pre­sented in Radio City, Carnegie Hall, and the White House, and his original composition of the ' Negro Folk Symphony'' has been performed by several leading orchestras, mcluding Leopold Stokowski on a popular recording. 
Dawson has traveled and researched indigenous music of many African countries and South America. 



~ ~---­
·~ 

Baseb 
Bonus 
an Observer sportssupplement AprillO, 1980 
World Champs 

Striking out on their own 

While I was home for break Joey and Bobby, two little kids who live down the street stopped ' by for a while. "Hey, Bill, do you want to play baseball?" asked Joey. "Sure, let me go get my mitt and I'll be out in a couple of minutes.'' 
"No, no, you don't need your mitt," explained Joey. "We're playing Major League baseball." 
"I don't thinr; I understand." 
"It's real easy. Yo~ are going to be t~e arbitrator and Bobby ts havmg trouble with management. You have to decide who wins." 
"And then we play baseball with mitts and 
• gloves and bats?" I asked naively. ''Only if both Bobby and the management are satisfied enough with your decision," said Joey. 
''And if they aren't?'' 
"Well, then either the person youruled against could take the case to court, or he could appeal to the commissioner. That would delay the. ga~.e until at least past our bedtimes tontght. 
Okay," I said with a look of mock under­standing," "';~at is Bobby's trouble with management? 
"Bobby's parents won't let him stay outside past 8:30 at night, and his Mom will only let him have five <:ookies for a snack when he come home from school,'' outline Joey. 
''Yeah, I want my play priveleges extended 
Irish get hot in cool spring weather 
by Bill Marquard Sports Wn'ter 

There's good news and bad news for the Irish baseball camp. The bad news is that the players are nor sporting their traditional spring break sun­tans; the good news is that they are sporting a 9-2 record and Coach Tom Kelly is more than happy with the tradeoff. 
''The weather was not what we have come to expect, since we usually make a southern swing through Florida at 
spring break,'' re­marked Kelly. "But we cer­tainly fared much better than we have on past trips." 
The Irish opened their sea­son with an impressive twin killing at Cincinnati, thwarting the Bearcats, 5-1 and 6-2, in their closest stop to the Florida sun. They also leveled double shots at Indiana {2-1 and 8-7), Wisconsin {16-7 and 8-4) and 'St. Mary's of Minnesota (5-1 and 2-1) in their home opener at Jake Kline Field. Butler proved to be the only nemesis 
for the Irish, downing their northern visitors, • 6-2, in a makeshift sitngle game on March 31 and then splitting with the Irish {8-2 Notre Dame in the opener and 7-0 Butler in the nightcap) in their regularly scheduled twinbill three days later. 
Kelly easily pinpointed the reason for the team's early success. "When you get right down to it, it's been a matter of execution. We're finally doing the things we've always talked about.'' 
Bill Matquard 
until f~ o'clock," Bobby flared up. "And I want to increase my snack allotmem to eight cookies, with a no-cut clause if I get home late from school closer to dinnertime." 

"To make this like Major League baseball. Bobby will be Bruce Sutter and his parents will be the Cubs management,'' added Jot"y. 
"That's a terrible curse on his parents," thought to myself. 
Beginning the arbitration, I asked, "Okay. Bobby, why do you think your demands are reasonable?'' 
"Well," said Bobby, caught a liule off­guard, "I am ten-years-old already, almost ena and-a-half, and everybody else my age gets to stay our later. Besjdes that, Joey's mom doesn't even put a limit on cookies." 
"Now what is management's side?" 
"Ummm, Bobby's mom is at the store, so you'II have to decide the case now," stammer­ed Joey as he tried to slip past the obvious problem. "Besides, she says it doesn't matter what we decide.'' 
''Considering your arguments and your 
[continued on page 10] 
That execution has come on all pans of the diamond, from the batter's box to the mound and field. "It's been a combin­ation ·of things --hitting, defe':lse and pitching --and not JUS .t one phase of the game that's gotten us off to such a good start, and that's what really pleases us as ~oac~es," related Kelly, now 10 hts fifth year at the Irish helm. 

Irish Captain

[continued on page IOJ Dan VoellinJ!.er 
Predictions ofthepennant races 
1Vlichael 
Ortman 
If you're looking for a reason to expand the baseball picture just a little bit, have a look at the American League East. Do you realize that if the third place Bo~ton Red Sox could have played in some other division, they would have beaten California by four games or Cincinnati by a game and a half. 
Only in the AL East could a team finish a season above .500 and still be in sixth place, 22 games out of first. The balance is there again this year. 
BALTIMORE ORIOLES -Man­a~er Earl Weaver says that a wmnin~ baseball team must have "Pitchmg, defense, and three-run homers." The latter includes the 
[conti'nued on page BJ · 

NL&st 
Frank LaGrotta 
I guess it's only fair to admit I'm not the world's biggest baseball fan. For me, the game has ahy~ys been a take-it-or-leave-it proposltlon. If you got an extra ticket that you want to give away, I'll take it off your hands. 
But I'd just as soon leave it to the fanatics who read The Sporiing News from cover to cover anll study the daily standings like a banker pouring over The Wall Street jour­nal. 
I think the game lacks immediacy; that intangible element that turns a game into a ''big game.'' Ti·e thing that makes you stand up and s~.:ream or stand in line for three days to get a ticket even though you could watch the game on television. It r.1akes 
. -. -------pintiniief.l on p(ig'e-9l . 
----~ 

Baseball Bonus  Thursday, Aprill0, 1980 -page 8  
.. .ALEast [conlin11ed from page 7] offensive essentials -getting on base, staying on base and sluggers to bring 'em all home. Lke a paradise resort, the Birds have everythins. Ace rel1ever Don "Stan the Man Unusual" Stanhouse has gone to Los Angdes (five years, $2 million), but righty Tim 'Stoddard (3-1, 1.71 ERA in '79) and southpaw Tippy Martinez (1-3, 2.88) will be more than ade­quate in relief. The starters are nothing short of outstanding with Cy Young winner Mike Dlannagan 1.23-9, 3.08), Scott McGregor (1.22 walks per nine innings -best in league, 13-6), Dennis Martinez (15­16), Steve Stone (11-7) and even a supposedly healty Jim Palmer (10-6) who the O's practically did without l:tSt year. The team ERA of 3.26 was almost a full run below the league average MVP contender Ken Singleton (.259, 35 HRs, 111 RBis) swings just one potent bat. Don't forget Eddie Murray's three year totals-27, 27, and 25 homers, 88, 95 and 99 RBis and averages of .283, .285, and .295 -he's only 24 years old. AI Bumbry (.285, 37 steals) and Gary Roenicke (25 homers) are also valuable assets.  here it is. A firmly implanted Sparky Anderson at the helm is worth his weight in gold, but his traditional lack of repoire with pitchers could cause problems. Right-handed starter Dan Schatz­eder (obtained from Montreal for soon-to-be-free-agent Ron LeFlore) joins Jack Billingham and Dave Rozema on a much improved pitch­ing staff. Rozema's already in hot water with Sparky for missing a team flight because he was judging an all-important wet T-shirt contest. People have labled the Tigers as ''the best young team in baseball,'' whatever that means. They do have [continued from page 7] usual get acquainted parties this season and squeeze 10 a linle baseball by October. The potent wallop of another contender, a three-time loser in its own right, looks marvelous on paper, but suffers from the constant curse of bad luck and big choke when the money's on the hne. The .rest? You can have them. One team .rebuilds, while the other plays self-destruct, letting its best talent slip off to greener pastures and bank  the best young outfielder, All-Star base where ancient Tony Perez Steve Kemp, and the best Joung the nod. Butch Hobson is very infielders in Lou Whitaker an Alan questionable at third but the rest of Trammel. Slugging First baseman the infield is solid. Jason Thompson and Richie Hebner All-Star outfielders Jim Rice, Fred replacing aging Aurelio Rodreguez Lynn and Dwight Evens are all great at third are big plusses. with the bat and rwo of them can If rookie outdeilder Kirk Gibson, even play the outfield (sorry Jimmy). billed in Detroit as the second-com­Yaz may soon be heading for the ing of Christ, is as lucky as Sprots broadcast booth. Illustrated's last rwo pre-season This time of year, most managers cover children, Clint Hurdle and claim that "if the pitching holds up, Harry Chappas, he'll be in the we could take it." That's where the minors by June. SOX disappear. Three more than BOSTON RED SOX -Stubborn adequate starters (Eckersly, Torrez, Don Zimmer refuses to move dead [continued on page 15]armed catcher Carlton Fisk to first , , , AL West bases well, as do most of the Angels. The Rangers can hit. AI Oliver The outfield will be deep this even hits .324. Budcly Bell improves season with the acquisition of Ralph each time out with a .299 average Garr. Dan Ford, Joe Rudi, Rick and a Gold Glove at third. But there Miller and another trade-in, AI are manr. question marks after those Cowens, look like manna from rwo. W1U Jim Sundberg ever be heaven for manage:r Jim F'regosi­more than mediocre at the plate? a guy who does not fool around when Richie Zisk is no help in the outfield it comes to baseball. and unless he ftnds his stroke again Around the infield, Rod Carew's will be a liability as DH. The first bat still ranks at the top of any baseman, Pat Putnam, shows pow­pitcher's danger list despite hts er and promise. Bump Wills is all sub-Carew .318 average a year ago. hit-no field at second base and Carney Lansford, a multi-talented Nelson Norman is all field-no hit as youngster, and Bobby Grich, who the shortstop. Give roe a break!  

Unlike the division's other con­

renders, the Orioles aren't counting 
on comebacks to win. Ali but 
Stanhouse are back. 
MILWAUKEE BREWERS Don't treat the loss of George Bamberger too lightly. Brewer fans had bener hope he recovers, and soon. Bambi has an amazing abilitj­of geuing that little extra something out of otherwise mediocre arms. He ordered his pitchers to walk no one, and they didn't. They gave up hits instead. All five starters (Caldwell, Slaton, Haas, Sorensen, and Trav­ers) gave up more hits than they had innings pitched, an honor not one Oriole had. The starters are solid enough, but a weak bull pen could be their demise. Bruce sutter had 13 more saves than the Brewers. 
11M: bats are truly awesome. An all-srac batting order includes Gor­man Thomas (45 HRs, 123 RBis in "79), Six_to Lezcano (.321, 101 RBis), Ben Ogdve (29 HRs), Paul Molitor (.322), Cecil Cooper (.308, 106 RBis), and Charlie Moore (.300). A rop-flight comeback by Larry Hisle (missed last year following early-sea­o.,on rotary cuff surgery), who had 234 RBis the previous rwo years, 'ould shoot the Brewers over the Birds. 
D~JROIT TIGERS -Every prog­
•'•sticator has an upset special, and 
accounts. Another still looks like an 
expansion team, while their comp­
etition for next year's ftrst round 
draft choice tries 1n vain to masque­
rade as a major league team. 
All the bats will· make their noise inthe race at the top for the West's half-~eonant. The. bestjitching will be gotng to waste 10 an around the bottom of the standings .. 
The result? Of the Angels, Ran~ gers and Royals, the team that avoids the most serious injuries and finds at least four starters to work consistently with any kind of a bullpen will win the West by a game or rwo. That ain't saying much, though, because this champ should get a perfect view of the World Series, complete with instant re­plays, right from the screen in their Beverly Hills living rooms. 
CAUFORNIA ANGELS -I'm going with the American League's second place finisher in The Best Team Money Can Buy pageant only because they showed a ton of heart in 1979, overcoming a weekly casual· ty report of attrition matched only by Kansas City's Royals. 
The batting order is pure run production from top to bottom. Designated Hitter Don Baylor was the AL MVP. He is a clutch hitter, a power hitter, and he hits for average (.296). Besides that, he runs the 
finally earned his fortune last year 
(.294, 30 HR's1. 101 RBI), man third 
and second while little Freddy Patek 
brings speed and experiertce to 
shortstop. Brian Downing is an 
AU-Stat at the plate with his bat; 
although behind the mask he can be 
a hazard. 

Pitching is the worry for Fregosi. 
Nolan Ryan is back at the ranch in 
Houston, leaving the Angel skipper 
without a battle-tested No. 1 starter. 
It's got to be Dave Frost (16-10) on 
operung day. The pressure will be 
immense, too, as the forkballer waits 
to see when and if Frank Tanana, 
Chris Knapp, jim Barr and Don 
Aase can come through. Bruce 
Kison, free agent from the ''Fam­
ily," is no Ryan, but he has won in 
the past. Mark Clear and Dave 
LaRoche are effective relievers. 
There are no stars on the Angel 
staff, but the bats and the heart will 
win them 90 games and a playoff 
berth. 

TEXAS RANGERS -There are 
the guys without an identity or a 
heart. Yankee tradeoff Mickey Riv­
ers is moaning in the Rangers' already deteriorating clubhouse. Maybe their bat rwirling acts will keep the fans entertained during the Texans' predictable September crash. 
SUNDAY 

JAZZNITE 
.At The 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
from 7 : ~0 to . 1 : ~0 
Featuring••• 

THE DUNES JAZZ 

The bullpen is the class of the West. jim Kern had a 1.57 ERA in 1979 and Sparky Lyle kee\'s on fooling the hitters in late toning work. Steve Comer and a healthy ]on Matlack should be the top two starters, which leaves Manager Pat Corrales praying for more mileage out of agtng Ferguson "Long-Ball" ) enkins and the Doc{k)s -Medich and Ellis. One's an M.D., the other's a head case. 
Too many things must go right for Texas to kno.ck off the Angels. Pick a number berween 80-89 and you can tell me how many games the Rangers will win. That way, I won't have to watch. 
KANSAS CITY ROYALS -Unfor­tunately, the Royals' day seems to have come and go·ne without rew­ard. The nucleus of a fearsome lineup still remains to light up the scoreboard above KC' s astroturf. But the pitching staff is a horror story-that's just the starters. You.. see, they have no bullpen. Al Hrabosky, inconsistent and bizarre as he is, was better than nothing. 
Aside from the pitching problems, the Royals also have holes at the most important spots on the field defensively, right now. Someone's got to replace Patek at short (Freddy 
and  Frank  White  were  a  great  
combination)  and  Darrell  Porter  
must  return  as  a  catcher  before  

things get out of hand for freshman roana2er Tim F rev. . 
On the bright side, Willie Wilson performs superhuman feats on the baseball field. At third, George Brett is the AL's finest. The Royals have big bats in Amos Otis, Hal McRae and Willie Mays Aikens. After that group, however, they're lighting candles in church for good years from Clint Hurdle and Steve Braun. Not to speak of hurlers Dennis Leonard, Larry Gura. Rich 
[continued on page 10) 

1979Fmal Standings American League 
WON LOST PCT. G.B. 

EAST BALTIMORE 
1 0 2 57 .642 95 66 .590 8

MILWAUKEE 
91 69 .569 11 Vz
BOSTON 
89 71 .556 13 Vz

NEW YORK 
85 76 . 528 18
DETROIT 
81 80 .503 22

CLEVELAND 
53 109 .327 50Vz

TORONTO 
WEST CALIFORNIA 88 74 .543 
3

KANSAS CITY 85 77 .525 TEXAS 83 
79 . 512 5 6

MINNESClTA ft2 80 .506 CHICIIJ!Wl 7J 87 
.456 14 
21

SEAllllll.IE 67 . 95 .414 
34

0AK.!Iltftl 0 54 108 .333 
I 
I 
I 
l 
l 


Baseball Bonus 
Thursday, Aprill0, 1980 -page 9 
... NLEast 
t? be favored to grab another Series ST. LOUIS CARDINALS nng. 
86-76 last season... 
PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES 
Not bad. But not irthis club has anything to Keith Hernandez goes from a .255 say about it. Remember last year hitter in 1978 to a .344 slugger with when Phillie fans were joyfully 105 RBI's last year. He joined anticipating the arrival of Pete Rose Pittsburgh's Stargell as the league's complete with a powerful bat, too , co-MVP. long haircut and too high salary? , -Not bad at all. They thought he would be the But before Gussie Busch buys difference between the division­another round of beer, let him winner that they were and the W odd answer my one question about his Series champion that they hoped to baseball team: be. · Where do they go from here? 
Well, he would have been if the Probably no where. They still team around him didn't sink like the ·show a terrible weakness on the Titanic. I just can't figure this team mound (especially in the area of out. . . With the highest payroll in left-handed pitchers) and they suffer baseball they certainly have the from the lack of killer instinct. talent. Their roster reads like an Maybe it's just me but I cannot get all-star line-up. Yet all they could exctted about this ballclub. muster was an 84-78 fourth place The acquisition of Bobby Bonds finish. from Cleveland should make for 
Insiders figure a lot of the problem some improved numbers but face it, was caused by internal bickering. the Cards are just too nice to finish You know, the typical "you make any better than fourth in this loaded National League co-MVP more than me!'' dribble that you division. Keith Hernandez don't expect from millionaire adults. 

[continued on page 10] Ha, fooled you. But new skipper Dallas Green promises to put the lid on all that. Discipline is the key he figures, and he may have part of the 
answer. But spanking the boys when they get out of line won't solve For~ure the••!Ateam can count on the problem. its ~eld fO:r not <>nly a g~at
What he has to ·do is convince .···.· d.~f~p$e, ljt1t ·..~~ ~m.~ run procluc" .· 
such players as Bake McBride, t~Qn; ~teve Ga:tVey(fustibase) ·h~ds·• Garry Maddox, Greg Luzinski and Manny Trillo to play, well, like Bake the J'£':6~t~i~ ~~i~(B~.a 
....· 
tryt¢

McBride, Garry Maddox, Greg Lu­. . ~~rs ~e secondbase tertito·
toao

zinski and Manny Trillo. Easier said 
LOS

than done. shou it~n=~:~!;~~e~all(44
But if it can be done the Phillies bases m 19"79).. Ron Cey and will be in a great position to di~isi()~i b?to ~ill J{ysse11,. at third and short, also challenge their cross-state rivals provide die runs and defense the
get th~if .act from Pittsburgh. rnate~s D ·· rs will need · shi.P. te · lit ,....~·· INNA'I'I _; Even: Lhough I've
MONTREAL EXPOS . . .... ··.. ·.. ····.... ·-·Y ·.•..... 
Will the real Montreal Expos I..a$0rd~) ~.ho e~ •. th.e coa~t ~e~ a Reds fan aU my life I. cannot please stand up! Either they are the Jll_Stiry:, <;ven to myself, . picking 
team tothe\Vo ..... es) a pitching staff (spar b~ la.<;~ 's ~ookie
Expos that finished at 95-65 and only Cmcmnatt ahead 9f LA. AU-around two games behind the division-win­ofthe Y~ . tkSut.d ; a: decent strength is somethingthe Redshave ning Pirates last season or they are batting orde:r, ...~.• ·.¢ve.n ,fnl:)re ~ecent -er,sottof. Jhey haveTom Seaver defens~ and; of¢Qurse, a ~ouple. of
the team that had only one hitter to pace the pttchm~ staff, but let's over .283 and no pitcher with more overpatd free age?t~, ·. .•.•.•. face it, Tom "Ternfic'' is getting a than 16 wins. Luck? Fate? You T.he r.easo.n.· the... Dodge·r·s···· manage. d bit old. Cincy had better hope he 
only a third place fmish last year is
figure it out. stays healthy and can contribute as 
simple ·enough:. injuries: Pitchets
But there are some names missing much· as last year (16-6 with five 
Bob Welch and Terry Fot:ster suffer­
from this year's press guide. Most shutouts): Joirung the ex-Met in the notably leftly Dan Schatzeder, the starting rotation will be Bill Bonham 
ed arm problems in 1979 while centerfie.l<J;er Rkk Monday dealt with 
most effective pitcher against the Mike .LaCoss, Frank Pastore, and Pirates last season. Rudy May and a sore Achilles tendon. IfWelch and Paul·· Moskau. · LaCoss shocked the Dale Murray are also gone leaving qtajors last year with an 8-0 start,
F?rst.er manage to ·. s.tay healthyt a pttcht{lg staff including the duo,
only Steve Rogers, Bill Lee and Ross but the youngster slacked off and Grimsley as established starters. Sut~li£fe, D11v~.Goltz (14·+3 .·· ljnisbed 14·8. Tom Hume and Doug
Twtns), Don Starihouse ····· · ·.·
Also absent is Tony Perez who Bair highlig1'lt I the bullpen and 
American Burt
became a free agent (or is that .mundoffone of the best pitching
Hootim

"expensive agent?") last year. In S!affs Cincinnati has had in a long his stead, the Expos are relying on Ron LeFlore (picked up from Detroit will have to· replace Joe for Schatzeder) to spark the offense. . t(!turned ~o th~. Astros) LeFlore hit .300 last year and stole · The -two-rime· MVP 78 bases. He should help the Expos fitl!lO!~~. :sl:l~lul~li t~e as easy t() replace tremendously when he toins Andre •. ·. . · last year~ if not Dawson and Ellis Valentine in the .&4y Kn~ght stepped outfield. v~''u'''K. ~ sensational .318 
But he won't help them near 10ugh. 
n.e Celtwal 
ANCAKEHOUS 
Flllllilg Rafoaluucf 
-

OUR: -p~:CIALTV OVEN-BAKED APPLE PANCAKES 
E:"AST  ~ON  LOST  PCT. G.B.  
P1HSBURGH MONTREAL ST. LOUIS PHILADELPHIA CHICAGO NEW YORK  98 95 86 84 80 63  64 65 76 78 82 99  .605 .594 531 .519 .494 .389  2 12 14 18 35  
WEST  
CINCINNATI  90  71  .559  
HOUSTON  89  73  . 549  1V2  
LOS ANGELES  79  83  .488  11 112  
SAN FRANCISCO 71  91  .438  19V2  
SAN DIEGO  68  !13  . 422  22  
ATLANTA  Ei6  ~ (  . 413  23 V2  

Our Specialty using fresh sliced apples topped with a sugar OO.namon glaze never·surpassed! 

U.S. 31 [Dixieway] North in Roseland [Across from Holiday lnn]272-7433
The Phi/lies Bob Boa'le takes time out in Bradenton, 
Sun.-Thurs. 6A.M. to 9P.M. 
Fri. & Sat. 6A.M. to 10 P.M .
Fla. to Ji!_ r-a-Jtograph.r for fans. [ photo by Lisa 
Ga.>..Jrek1 . ­
-' -· -------­
[continued from page 7] you care about more than just who wins the game. But Baseball? How many of the 162 games in a season really mean anything? The last 20? 15? Maybe not even that many. And who wants to sit in the bleachers drinking beer in October. Make sure you don't spill any on your winter coat. So when Beth Huffman asked me to write this column I figured I better do some homework. Here's what I've come up with-but don't expect anything too technical because RBI' s ~nd ERA's bore me. PITTSBURGH PIRATES The question here is: Can a 39-year-old find health, happiness, 32 more home runs and 82 more RBI' s this season? The answer is: It doesn't really matter. The geriatric in question is Willie Stargell, the most valuable player in last year's Wodd Series and co­winner (along with St. Louis' Keith Hernandez) of the same award in the National League. The father of the Pirate "Fam-a-lee," Stargellled his team to the title last year using an oversized bat, an undersized ego and an overplayed copy of Sister Sledge's "We Are Fam-a-lee." If he can ditto last year's stats (which, by the way, he racked up in only 100 games) the Pirates will waltz to another World Championship. And if not... Well, they'll still win it but it won't be as easy or ·dramatic. The Pirates have the proper mixture of youth and maturity as well as hitting and fielding to wm with or without Stargell. Their road record last year (50-31) proves they are a capable club. They led the league in runs, were second in hitting, steals and homers and third on the pitcher's mound. However, the 1 WJ most productive steals they registered all season came not on the field but in the front office where they acquired shortstop Tim Foli from the Mets for Fumblin' Frank Tavares and third baseman Bill Madlock from the Giants for a no-name pitcher Ed Whitson. This year they will benefit from having both players for anentire season. Chuck Tanner is excited about that. And he's equally excited about Dave Parker-he of the big ego, big mouth, big paycheck and big talent. He might be the best player in the game today although expect some arsument from San Diego's Dave Wmfeild. Parker's numbers last year didn't please him-.310 aver­age with 25 home runs and 94 RBI's. This year he promises better. His fielding is flawless (he added another Gold Glove to his collection last season) and he might pick up any slack that Stargell leaves be­hind. On the mound Tanner can throw Bert Blyleven, Jim Bibby, Jim Rooker, and maybe John Candelaria who is still strugghng with a back injury that has prevented him from returning to his 20-5 performance of two years ago. Couple this rotation with ace fireman Kent Tekulve (10-6 with 31 saves), Enrique Romo, and Grant]ackson and the Pirates have 
1979Fmal Standings National League 


----~----------------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
• 
Baseball Bonus 

Thursday, Apri110, 1980 -page 10 
... NL East 
!continued from page 9 Chicago Cuh-; 

Dt"ar Mr. Wrigley, I krc' :-. whar I think of your ha:-.chall team: They'll /)lay in May, swoon in Iune and < ie hy July. Now, pur thai in your gum and dww it NEW YORK METS lr '.., really k rnd ot hard to decide whar rhis ream n<Tds most. Their 
Remaining Notre Dame baseball schedule 
Aprrl 11 
/\prrl 1? 
Aprrl lli Aprrl 1'1 1\Wrl :'0 1\pr rl 2? /\prrl 2!> /\prrl 26 Aprrl 27 Apr rl 29 M.1y 3 M~y 4 
Mayfi ------­


1621 SOUTH BEND AVENUE PHONE 23l4603 254 DIXIEWAYNORTH PHONE 2712522 
ORDER KEGS NOW !! LARGE SELECTION of SPIRITS WINES SBEER !!I 
OLD 

MILLER LITE
MILWAUKEE 

24/12 OZ CANS
KEGS 

I I 
~6 oo. 

I 
! 
,/. Y>BBL

I ­

plus deposit 
~D·WHITE 

BUSCH 24/12 OZ CANS
~-~~&BLUE 
14/12 OZ CANS 



STROHS 24/12 OZ CANS 6.99 
al Northwestern lnvitiatlonal NO vs. lllnois Tech N 0 vs. Northwestern 
at Northwestern Invitational N 0 vs. Northwestern NO vs. Illinois Tech 
at St. JoseJlh 's (2) DAYTON [21 al Valparaiso (2) at Western Michigan (2) HUNTINGTON 121 ILLINOIS-CHICAGO CIRCLE 12] BOWLING GREEN [21 at Bethel (2) BRADLEY 121 DETROIT 121 
___:V:.:.A:=L::.:PA:.::R::.:A.:.c.I.:.:SO::...J.:I2:.L]_______ 
former owner, Lucinda DtRrmlet 
didn't know so she did the smart thing and sold out. I understand the new owners are relatives of Abner Doubleday.
I think old Abner had something different in mind when he created this game of baseball. Something with offense, which the Mets do not have; and defense, which the Mets don't play. But cheer up Met fans. You still have Lee Mazilli who can do anythin~ on a baseball diam<;md---:-as long as 1t doesn't mess up hts hatr. 
Manager Joe Torre says he doesn't know what to think about this team. Who can blame him? 
======~~~~======================= 
... Spring UJeather 
(continued from page 7) 

If we continue to execute like we have, we should do well for the rest of the season. The ream is not overpowering but it is solid. The fact that so many people have chipped in with clutch fielding plays or pitching or hits has been a big factor." 
Some of Kelly's charges have especially distinguished themselves statistically. Th1 rd baseman Mark Simendinger leads the Irish with a .406 batting average while junior designated hitter Mike Jam­ieson and shortstop Dave Bart­ish have been rapping hits at a .356 and .324 clip. 
Simendinger and classmates Greg Rodems and Dan Voellin­ger share the team lead in runs batted in with eight apiece. Voellinger, the team captain who has caught all but two of Notre Dame's games, boasts a .655 on-base percenta~e while Jamieson is right behmd him on the basepaths with a .640 mark. 
Junior righthander Mike Deasey is undoubtedly the ace in the pitching staff's cumula­tive hand. The Edina, Minn., native sports an unblemished 3-0 record with a stingy 1.33 earned run average and has won eight straight decisions 
• • • Strikingout 
[continued from page 7) 

partents' obvious lack of interest, along with 
the fact that you are almost ten-and-a-half I will 
have to rule in favor of you, Bobby,'' I 
admitted. 

At that, my trusty second base man from the same Little League team I ••ad coached Bobby and Joey on rode into the driveway on a brand new 10-speed racing bike imported from Italy. 
"Where did you get that, Scott?" I asked. 
Joey cut him off before he could answer. "He's supposed to ride that bike-he's going to be Marvin Miller.'· 
"Where's Reggie Jackson," I wondered outloud. "Oh, that's Dave," explained Joey nonchal-. andy. 
"Yeah, but Dave isn't here." 
"That's why he's Reggie Jackson!" 
Joey filled Marvin, er Scott, in briefly on what we had done, and then Scott grabbed Bobby, whisperin~ to him in the corner for a minute with occastonal head faints our way. 
Suddenly Scott hustled back with Bobby hot on his heels. "My client is still not satisfied," iterated Scott staring me right in the chest. Bobby quickly jumped in. "that's right, I want to be a free...urn... free...urn..." 
"Agent, "whispered Scott under his breath. 
"Yeah, a free agent," demanded Bobby. 
"Why," I asked, trying to suppress a smile. 
Pushmg Bobby to one side, Marvin, I mean Scott, confronted me with his "client's" case. 
"Simply put, Bobby likes Joey's parents a lot more than hi!' own-he thinks they are nicer-so he wants to become a free agent so he can be picked up by Joey's family." 
"All right, that makes sense, so why do yot•. need me?'' I asked. · "Bobby's and Joey's mean m~nagent~~ ···ruggt"sted ·a · f>M-'. ~ 
e e • AL west 
[continued from page 8} 
Gale and ancient Paul Splitrorff. 
The entire staff dipped off a year 
ago. A major miracle is needed to 
keep Frey's thin line. of pitching in 
pennant contending shape-espec­
tally with zero in the pen. 
THE REST -In order, how 
about Chicago, Minnesota, Seattle 
and Oakland? The White Sox with 
their youthful lefty arms, the Twins 
and their manager with a penchant 
over two seasons to improve his career mark to 10-3. 
Righthanded reliever Mike Kenahan has been miserly on the mound, sporting a 0.91 ERA enroute to a victory and a save. Bullpen regular Marty Vuono has already notched two saves. 
"We were really happy to with the performance of our pitching staff," offered Kelly. "We used all but one pitcher, and he must have warmed up for 800 innings. The name of the game is relief pitching and we had it_ when we needed it, 
which often."  wasn't really  that  
Kelly  also  noted  that  the  

competition the Irish faced this spring was more on a par with Notre Dame's caliber than it's 
Ihe_-Obser~ 
BaseballBonus Staff Editor : Beth Huffman Proquction :john Smith, Brian Beglane 
Photographers : lisa Gasiorek, PhilStauder 
posal before Bobby could move m at Joey's house,'' explained Scott further. 
''Which is?'' 

"Bobby's parents want compensation for 
losing their son. Isn't that stupid?" said Scott, 
waiting for me to agree. 
"I don't thing it ts stupid, but what kind of 
compensation are they asking for?" 
"Bobby's parents want my baby sister," 
admitted Joey. 

"All right, I see where you might run in to a 
problem. But why don't you become a free agen 
and see, Bobby? You could stay out later and 
have all the cookies you want." 
"He's afraid my parents won't give up my 
little sister," offered Joey. "Bobby is worried 
that my little sister is worth more." 
"Wait, I have an idea," said Scott, as he huddled his fri~nds together. 
Breaking their conference a moment later, Scott was beamin. "We have decided to go on strike until management yields to our demands. The vote was unanimous-all of the kids in the neighborhood are going on strike until Satur­day." 
"Unanimous? There are only three of you here," I pointed out. "No problem," explained Scott confidently. "Everyone will go alons with it-I know it." "But why are you gomg on strike only until Saturday? That doesn't make sense." 
"Sunday is Easter," Scott shrewdly explain­ed. "We don't want to be on strike then or we won't get ou baskets. We'll strike for a couple days just to show our parents what's going on, and then we'll consider another strike vote after Easter. There is no way I am going to miss getting my basket."· 
At that, I heard Bobby's mom calling for him to go in. Bobby made a ha5ty retreat ar.:d Joey anu Scott followed quickly ari:er. Glancing at my watch, !realized it was 8:30. 
• ~ rr-was bhly agame: 
for winning more games than he has a right to, the Mariners who a,re improving in all departments an­nually, and those Athletics of Billy the Kid. If Billy Martin could use a flea-flicker and a blitz to go with all the hit-and-runs and "suicide squeezes in his coaching repetoire, he'd still be managingthe team that drank champagne after one of their All-Stars ended a 14-game losing 
streak. 
This one will be close, but once the Series rolls around, who's gonna care? Teams like the Detroit Tigers should have been so lucky as to have been bron in the West. 
usual Florida foes. "When we 
play in Florida, we are going in 
cold against teams that may 
have already played some 20 
games. The teams we played 
this year were not so far ahead 
of us, which was another 
reason for our success.'' 
"Ofcourse, we also won't be facing the shock of returning to South Bend weather. We're used to the weather already." 
Kelly hopes that the im­pressive start bodes well for the rest of the season. ''The players are getting to the point where they expect to win. We haven't been anything in the past two weeks which we aren't really capable of doing all year. There is no reason we sh(;JU!dn' t be able to play with anyone on our schedule." 
•,:···
.. \ \ 
• 's '• .. 

The Observer Thursday, Apri110, 1980 -page 11 
Nuclear debate continues 
EDITOR'S NOTE The United States and Britain more else." Three Mile Island accident that\ a tenth. Most Western power com­galvanized anti-nuclear senti­In West Germany. where panies had overestimated the 
ment in many coumnes be­demonstrators last spring growth in electric demand. sides the United States. But chanted "We all live in Penn­Reactor orders in the second one year later, some of those svlvania,'' environmental law­half of the 1970s fell to 
countries say they still want suits have pushed the lead-­one-third the rate for the fir-st nuclear power. The following, time for new plants to more half of the decade. bas.ed on survey by The Assoc­than a decade. The International Consulta­iated Press, examines the sta­Swedes were voting in a tive Group on Nuclear Energy, 
tus of nuclear energy world­nuclear referendum Sunday, a 14-member study panel spon­wide. but none of the three options sored by the Rockefeller Foun­
by Kevin McKean would have added to the 12 dation and Royal Institute of AP science Writer reactors built or planned. International Affairs, says the 
NEW YORK (AP) -Although ''We were not going any­industry could be damaged if hard times and the Three Mile where quickly with nuclear the the stall condinues. U.S. Island accident brought nuclear energy before Three Mile Is­manufacturers have most to Rec_ent cold s_pells to the contrary, this du Lac resident zs power expansion in the United land, but it certainly did not lose: they hold two-thirds of certazn that spnng ts here. [photo by}oel Annable.] States and parts of Europe to a speed things up," said one the market. virtual halt, other nations re­official at Italy's National Com­Two members of the group, main committed to nuclear mittee for Nuclear Energy. Mans Lonnroth of Stockholm 
energy_ either by choic" or The accident prompted Den­and William Walker of London, 
MATH-SCIENCE
necessity. mark to delay plans for nuclear said the ''widely felt'' public 
France, Britain, South Korea expansion. Holland and Aus­concern over nuclear safety and the Soviet Union and its tria had taken similar decisions was having different impacts in allies have all expanded nu­the year before. different nations: clear plans since the March 28, And Chang Bin, China's vice "countries, such as France 1979, accident. minister of electric power, told and the United Kingdom, 
Some developing countries -visiting Pennsylvania Gov. where government policy pro­Brazil, Argentina, Pakistan and Dick Thornburgh this month posals have tFaditionally ·been \ India are examples -have that a nuclear station near less exposed to wide fublic ambitious plans on the drawing Shanghai was canceled after debate at early stages o con­board. And Japan, after two public concern that a TMI-style sideration, have had compara­studies of TMI, wrote new accident could happen near the tively little difficulty in promo­safety rules and resumed plans world's most populous city. ting nuclear power,'' they said. to quintuple its nuclear capaci­But the nuclear industry was "Still less difficulty has, of 
ty in the next 15 years. already in a slump when TMI course, been encountered in 
however, an Associated hit. closed political systems such as Press survey shows that the "Everybody in the industry the U.S.S.R." Harrisburg, Pa., accident was expected the four-fould in­Yet even the Soviets have a factor in putting the brakes crease in the gasoline price safety problems. A nuclear on an already staggering nu­after $974 to be a tremendous plant accident is believed to clear industry in Sweden and boost for nuclear," said David have contaminated an area of West Germany, among others. Fischer of the United Nations­the Orals in 1957 or 'l8, Nuclear power generates only 7 affiliated International Atomic although the Soviets never percent of the world's electri­Energy Agency in Vienna, reported it. 
city, but contributes a big Austria. Two Soviet scientists, in a share in some of the 22 nations "In fact, it had the opposite recent unusual article in a Ask a Pean· <'orps volunteer why .,he t<'acht•" 1nath and that have it. effect. It induced recess10n or communist Party· Journal com­general science to high ~.-hool ><lud..nt s no l.o hi" ria. Wt•st. 
Belgium and Sweden get slowed growth practically ev­plained that all but one of Afr;ca... Ask anollu•r volunt!·t·:· why lw teat hr·" biology and one-quarter of their power erywhere, and the utilities Russia's reactors are in its physics in the Pacific Island" They'll probably say they from nuclear, Switzerland couldn't rase money for any populous western half, where want to hdp people, want to ust• their "kill-.. travel, learn a nearly a fifth, and France, new plants, whether they were an accident would be danger­new language or experience another nlltun·. Ask them: Germany, Japan, Korea, the coal, nuclear or anything ous. 
Register now at Plac~ment Office for interviPws: April 15-16.
Quayle urges tough stance 
speaking to the Republican vote, saying it was a necessaryINDIANAPOUS (AP) -The women, Sen. Birch Bayh, D­step to win congressional sup­United States should cut off Ind., the man Quayle hopes to port for removing price controls foreign aid to allies that refuse 
to go along with economic oppose in the November gene­on petroleum. ral election, also called for The four <:andidates for the
sanctions against Iran and sliould retaliate militarily a­penalizing foreign governments GOP nomination for lieutenant 
gainst Iran if American hos­that fail to support sanctions governor also spoke to the 
Republican women.
tages are killed, U.S. Rep. Dan against Iran. 
Bayh said in Michigan City House Speaker Kermit 0.
Quayle said yesterday. 
Quayle, seeking the GOP no­that he will introduce legisla­Burrows stret!ed his ~ri­
tion next week to give Carter ence as a legislative leader.
mination for the U.S. Senate, gave the get-tough speech at a the power to deny trade bene­Sen. John M. Mutt said his 
fits to countries which refuse to business bac:kground would beconvention of the Indiana Fe­go along with the sanctions. an asset because the lieutenantderation of Republican women. 
''The American people are Quayle's primary election op­governor oversees the Com­ponent, former Highway Com­merce Department. Former
getting sick and tired of getting 
mission Director Roger F. Motor Vehicle Cominissionerkicked around in this world,'' Marsh, criticized both Quayle Ralph W. Yan Natta said heQuayle said. 
and Bayh for voting for the brought effideocy to that officeIn an interview after the win#all profits tax on oil com­and would help elect the cur­speech, Quayle said a cutoff of 
rent lieutenant governor, Ro­
foreign aid would have little pantes. 
effect on some of America's ''Birch Bayh voted right along bert D. Orr, as governor. Gary with Carter for this massive tax Benson, a £ormer Indianapolis
more prosperous allies, such as 
increase. My opponent voted personnel d.irect.or, called forJapan, but trade sanctions also right along with Bayh for this diversification of Indiana's eco­could be used. 
massive tax increase," Marsh nomic base, which he said is t<>9He told the Republican wo­
dependent on the auto, steel 
men, "To Japan, I would say if said. 
and motor home industries. 
Later, Quayle defended the
you don't join us, keep your Toyotas, Datsuns, and Sonys." Quayle said President Carter should tell Iran, "If there is any 

TO OUR SHINING 
taking of life of Americans over there, there will be serious 
STJ~R,

military retaliation to Iran." Quayle said he q_uestions whe­ther Carter is -senous about his 
NANCY 
latest Iranian initiatives, includ­ing economic sanctions and a break in diplomatic relations. 
Even American allies are un­sure whether Carter will follow 
GOOD LUCK 
, through on his threats, Quayle said. 
LOVE, 
At the same time Quayle was 
YOUR FAN CLUB 
i; ·i, ' t_ I: ---~ -~ .._ ~ .. . ~ ~ ' ;. •. . ~ ... 
':"~""..,. ___ _.~_.,.. __ _, •• ...., · .,... ___ <_.,.._ .,.,...,....,. ..... ~ ~ • • .. "'• • ..-.. •• • • t ~ t 
..•,_.. ."'f, : , I ..,_ , -:~~· ., • .......~~·T ~~-~·~-;~:· :,.~JWF;i:+nmw~~;f;:;Ht¥\¥i i~~·~~:.;-»~~.:»:.:+...;;.r~--:···~•• •f.;•;t•••···~··• ..·t .. l',.'::i'ti£'>-"'o. ..~.i,y~;....!;., f(;.,•tt-i t~r • .• •; ..1•\'\"""­



The Observer 

[photo by joel Annable.] 

• 
A Roosevelt University Lawyer's Lawyer's Assistant Program Assistant represents the mark of quality ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY anrl acceptance in today's legal 430 South Michigan Avenue l'ommunity. Chicago, Illinois 60605 • ~ 

• 
If you are a college graduate and (312) 34 1·3882 • ~ qualify, why not give yourself an Please send me information on advantage by attending Roosevelt Roosevelt's Paralegal Program. University's Lawyer's Assistant Program 


which is fully accredited by the Day Prol(rams 41 American Bar Association _10 Summer 1980 
• Since the Fall of 1974, 1250 graduates I June 12·September 5 ~epresenting over 230 colleges and 10 Fall 1980 universities have chosen Rcrosevelt's September 22-December 12 Lawyer's Assistant Program for their Evening Programs career training. 0 Fall·Winte•· 
· • Specialize in: Corporations-Estates, October 7·March 28, 1981 Trusts and Wills-Llligation-Real 0 Spring·Summer f.state and Mortgages-Employee Benefit March 17·August 29 Plans • -or become a Generalist•. Recruller will be on 
• Over 325 law firms, banks, campus 1\ P R I L 1.) mrpurations and government agencies name'--------­throughoutthP United StatPs have hired 
phone-------­
Roosevelt graduatPs. 
address ·:
HtKJM"vt•h ltmvrr!\ity .uJmils J'tud...nts on ttw has1s of 
I
mdi\'idual merll and without regard lo rar.e. colnr. 
city·---------1
n.,t>d. SPJI ur phys1caJ hand1ro1p "f"\ t"Otnll prul(ram nnl.' state ____ zip·-----1I 
IN CASE YOU'VE MISSED US... WE'VE MISSEDYOU! 
Over the past decade, Michael & Co. has been pleased to serve all of our 11alued Notre Dame and St. Mary's customers. Recently, we moved from our old Edison Rd. at Ind. 23 location which was just % mile away. Now we're only 2% miles away! Still on Edison Rd. Still convenient. Still the one. We welcome you to visit us soon at our all new salon. 
Ft•arurmg half and skincare products by: 

-
• 

Thursday, Apri110, 1980 -page 12 
Skyjacker seizes jetliner, reroutes it to Havana 
(AP) · .A hijacker armed with an automatic pistol seized an American .Airlines jet with only its seven crew members aboard in California yesterday forcing the plane to take off for Cuba, authorities said. The plane made a brief refueling stop in Texas before taking off for Havana. 
The incident was the second skyjacking to Cuba this year. There have been more than 150 hijackings of U.S. planes since 1961. . 
Federal Aviation Administra­tion spokesman Dick Hallen said the Boeing 727 was taken over at Ontario (Calif.) lntema­
================~~=========== 
USSR laun.ches Soyuz 35 
MOSCOW (AP) · The Soviet Union launched two cosmo­nauts into orbit yesterday and there was speculation they will extend greetings from a space station to athletes and specta­tors at the Olympic games in Moscow this summer. 
The official Tass news agency said a record-holding adventu­rer and a rookie cosmonaut were launched to make repairs on Salyut 6, the station that has been in orbit 2lh years. The launch of the Sayuz 35 craft followed a record-breaking 175 day manned mission abc>ard the space station last year. 
The last American manned space flight, by contrast, was in July 1975, when Thomas Staf­ford and Donald Slayton docked their Apollo 18 craft to the Soviet Soyuz 19 in a dramatic big power space linkup. 
All systems aboard Soyuz 35 were functioning normally Tass said, and the two cosmonauts were felling good. 
Soviet .elevision carried pic­tures of the launch three hours after liftoff from the Baikonur space center in Central Asia. At liftoff, one of the cosmonauts could be hear jubilantly yelling the Russian word meaning "Let's go!" 
Since Salyut 6 was launched SeJ?t. 29, 1977, it had been visited by seven crews -three 
Reynolds to speak onjob preparation 
Paul Reynolds, placement spe­cialist at the Notre Dame Place­ment Bureau, wil speak to Juniors of all majors tonight on the topic of preparing for the job search. The talk is schedul­ed for 7 p.m. in Rm. 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
Reynolds wiU highlight the services offered by the Place· meot Bureau and talk about the ~ctivitiesJ· ~or should become mtereste m now to prepare them for looking for a job later. 
of them made up of internatio­
nal, teams. 
The Soviets launched an un­manned craft last month to test new guidance systems, and then sent up another unmanned transport ship in late March to deliver supplies to Salyut 6. That spacecraft is still docked to Salyut, awaiting the two cosmo­nauts to unload it. 
Tass said the mission of the cosmonauts would be ftrst to clean, repair and restore the space station, and then to "carry on scientific and techni­cal experiments, the study of the Earth's natural resources and medical-biological research in near ~pace." 
For flight engineer Valery Ryumin, 40, this will be his third visit to the Salyut station. He last returned Aug. 19 after setting the record of 175 days and 36 minutes in orbit with Vladimir Lyakhov. 
The commander of Soyuz 3 5 is L~. Col. Leonid Popov, 34, an air force pilot who has been involved i~ the Soviet space program smce 1970 but had never travelec!_ in space before. 
The current flight is the latest in a long series that testifies to the Soviet Union's determina­tion t<J create almost perma­nently manned space stations. Previous teams of c~monauts have lived aboard the Salyut for 96, 140, and 175 days, and four other teams · each including non-Soviets · have made brief visits. 
During the six-month mission last year, progress ships deli­vered fresh. food, wat~r -and~ 
other supplies approxunately every 4~ days. Ryumin and 
Lyakhov even found time to 
grow onions and greens to supplement their diet. 
Tass said Popov graduated from the Yuri Gagarin .Air Force Academy while undergoing cos­monaut training. 
Ryumin worir.ed in a design office after graduatin~ from the Moscow forestry instttute, the news agency said, and took part in the development of new smaples of space equipment. He joined the Soviet space program in 1973. 
tional.Airport at 7:~8 a.m. PST. It had been scheduled to depart at 8:15 a.m. PST for Chicago's O'Hare International Airport, a spokesman for the Federal Avi­ation Administration in Wash­ington said. 
The plane took off from Onta­rio, a Southern California city 35 miles east ofLos .Angeles, at 
8:37 a.m. PST. It landed at Dallas-Fort Worth Regional .Airport in Grapevine, Texas. 
"It's an .American .Airlines Boeing 727. There's only the crew aboard£!';' the hijacker.
He's deman to go to Cu­ba," Hallen said. "They're presendy taxiing out, and I'm sure they'll attempt to comply with any of his demands." He said there were seven crew members aboard . 
.Airport sl>?kesman Dennis Watson sa.td the unidentified hijacker was armed with a .4~-caliber automatic pistol. 
The FBI is handlin~ the inves­tigation, Watson sa.td. 
Fred Farrar, the FAA spokes­man in Washington, said pre­liminary reports indicated the b~ack male hijacker posed as an a.trport employee before the crew. 
Farrar said there were three flight crew and four attendants aboard the plane. 
.. . Iran 
[continued from page 1] 

warn the respected U.S. na­tion that the criminals of the 
U.S. administration will be directly responsible for such an event.'' 
The militants later told a Western reporter in Tehran that by "spy hostages'' they meant all of their captives. 
In a statement, reported by the news agency Pars, the militants said they would "burn to ashes the spy hos­tages and the building they are living in if we see any suspicio~s military move or the least military attack by the 
u.s. against the territory of Iran." 
Chapel Choir 
to sponsor waltz ball 
The Chapel Choir and the German Club will co-sponsor the Spring Waltz Ball tomor­row at 8 p.m. in LaFortune Ballroom. Live musicians will be on hand to provide the music of Strauss and other famous waltz composers. Re­freshments will also be pro­vided. Individuals need not bring a date. Admission is $1 per person. 

Editorial Board and Departm~nt Managers 
Edztor-rn-Chzef ............ Paul Mullaney SMC News Editor ........... Mary Leavin Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managrng Editor .............. Mark Rust Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Features Editor .............. Kate Farrell 
Editonals Editor ........... Mike Onufrak 
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe
Senior Copy Editor ......... Lynne Daley 
reflect the policies of the admmistration of either institution. The news is reponed 
Photo Editor .................. John Macor
News Editor .................. Pam Degnan 
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a 
News Editor ................ Tom Jackman
maJority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges of their authors. Column SJ?ace is available to all members of the community, and News Editor ............... John McGrath Advertising Manager .. Mike Holsinger the free expression of varymg opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC Executive Editor .. Margie Brassil Production Manager .... Ann Monaghan 
L___ ___________________________________________________________ 
·-­

.---------------------------­
The Observer -Sports Thursday, April1 0, 1980 -page 13 
SMC opens 'new-' softball season ... Reality· 
by Kelly Sullivan Women's Sports Editor 

The 1980 softball season will indeed be a new one for Saint Mary's College as it brings a new coach, a new division of competition, and many new players to the Belles' diamond. They open their season this Friday, hosting a C:.Jubleheader with Grace College at 3:oo. 
The team will be under the: direction of ftrst year coach Scott Beisel, who holds plenty of credentials for the job. Beisel is coach of the Elkhart Comets. a women's semi-professional softball team that has won or finished second in the state every year he's been at the helm. 
Beisel looks forward to build­ing a strong program at Saint Mary's, where softball has only been considered a varsity spore for three years. Prior to this season, college softball was played at one level but now has been split into divisions, with the Belles competing in Divi­sion III. 
Only six players return from last season's campaign which finished slightly above the .500 level. 
"We're primarily a young and inex_perienced team, and I'm relymg heavily on our freshmen and sophomores," notes Bei­sel. Fourteen of the squad's 
• • • Millionaires 
[coniinued/orm page 16] 
Only fair? 

Is it fair to the owner who brings a kid up from nowhere, gives him a ball and glove, a coach to hone his talent and a minor league stadium in which to display it? Then, when the kid finally makes it to the big leagues, the owner pays him a pretty nice living only to see him leave a few years later. 
Good business ·demands a return on any investment and, let's face it, a professional athlete is an investment for an owner. Loyalty? Forget that. Most ptofessional athletes can't even spell it. 
Besides, who the hell is Marvin Miller? He probably makes more money from base­ball than 99 percent of the players, yet he has no stake in 
Transactions 
Baseball 
American League 
Cleveland Indians -Op­tioned Dell Alston. outfielder, to Tacoma of the Pacific Coast LJague. 
Kansas City Royals Placed Pmos Otis, Outfielder, on the disabled list. Sent Craig Chamberlain. pitcher, and Manny Castillo, Infielder, to Omoaha of the American As­sociation. Purchased the con­tract of Bobby Oethe.rage. out­fielder. 
New York Yankees -Out­righted Ken Clay, pitcher, to 
Columbus of the  lnteQJational  
League.  '  
.National League  

Pitts·burgll Pirates-Placed Matt Alexander, outfielder, on the 15-day disable.d list. 
Football 
National football League 
Baltimore C·olts-Traded a fifth-round 1980 draft choice ·to the Kansas City Chiefs for Mark Bailey, fullback. 

seventeen members are under­classmen. 
Bad weather has hampered Saint Mary's preparation for the season opener. The team has not practiced on a diamond yet and Beisel says the squad's defensive skills are a question mark. 
"We won't be as strong on defense as we'd like to be, but we've worked heavily on ou1 hitting and I feel one of the strongest defensive weapons is a good offense. " 
The ftrst year coach expects to rotate players considerably, gi­vin~ each one experience at 2 or 3 different posiuons. 
''I like to experiment -it ~ives the team more flexibility, ' he added. 
Senior secondbaseman Sue Ni­cholas and sophomore short­stop Marybeth Hozinski are the two strongest ballplayers re­turning from last year's lineup. 
"Both play summer softball at the major league level and their experience is a big asset to the other .girls," said Beisel. 
Lack of pitching depth poses a problem for the Belles. None of the three players competing for the spot have had game experi­ence in the college ranks. Freshman Mary Bayless will most likely start on Friday. 
"Mary has a good deal of potential -with a little experi­ence she'll develop into a first class pitcher,'' notes her coach. 
The Belles will have a young outfield with freshmen Nancy Lorenzini, Mary Wolf, Debbie Bucholz, and Jackie W asni all competing . for starting posi­tions. Behind the plate, Peg Pigschell, Anne Morris, and Marian Diltz will share catching responsibilities. Paula Doherty, Lou Weber, and ] an Clements concluded the list of candidates battling for infield positions. 
Cautious OJ?timism describes Beisel's opiruon oT his squad so far. "I can't say how strong we are comp•ared to other colleges. I keep comparing this team to my summer team, which plays top quality softball. I think we look pretty good, but I'll know better after a few games.'' 
Beisel places his concern not so much on the team's won-loss record but on Saint Mary's performance at tournament time. 
"Everything we're working on now is £or the state tourney,'' relates me Belles' mentor. ''Whether we win or lose a game, we want to learn from the experience and correct our mistakes. We're really going to work on getting our fundamen­tals down." 
Home field for the Saint Mary's nine will be Boehm Park, off Edison Road in South Bend. The Belles look forward to hosting Notre Dame next Tuesday at 3:00. 
the game. Do you think Marvin exorbitant amount ofmoney for 
Miller really cares whether or playing a game. A game that 
not Montreal gets adequate allows them to enjoy a lifestyle 
compensation for the loss of that most would never be able 
Tony Perez to free agency? For to achieve without a ball and 
some reason, I can't see the bat. Money, fame, prestige, 
little guy losing any sleep endorsments...the game has about manager Dick Wiliams' given the players aplenty. first base dilemma. Maybe it's time they give Baseball players make an some back. 
Sports Briefs'----_ 
Umpiringpositions open 
The lnterhall Office is looking for umpires for spring baseball. Pay for each game is $5. All those interested should contact the office at 6100 or 2100 immediately. 
Hockey banqu~t to be held 
The Notre Dame hockey banquet will be held Thursday, Aprill7 in the Ml•nogram Room of the ACC. Ticket,; for the event are $10.50 f,,r Blue I .ine (:::Ju~ menbers and $11.50 for others. All are in :ited to the event; , ontact Mrs. Thelma Hessling at 234-c\279 fo~ further inrormation. Cocktails begin at 6· 30 p.n . with l;nner following immedtately at 7:30p.m. 
Women place thirdin meet 
The women's track club finished thiJrd out of six teams at Manchester Tuesday. The meet, plagued by 20 degree temperatures, heavy winds and rain, was won by St Joseph's Coli~ o-e with 139 point: , ~oil owed by he Manchester with 125 .. Notre Dame tallied 100 pomts en route to the third place finish. Melanie Murray ran a personal best of 18:57.0 in the 5000 meters, taking one of the two first places for Irish individuals. Kathy Jones took the other individual win with a 26.8 200 meter dash. The 3200 meter relay of Monica Sherwin, Annete Isom, Shannon Mara and Ann Rice bested their opponents by nearly 220 yatds in a 11:18.6 win. The fmal ftrst place win for the Irish was turned in by the mile relay team of Mary O'Connor, BarbaraJacobs, Jones and Rice with a 4:29. The club next travels to the Hillsdale Relays on April 19. 
·~ 

( 
··•' 

[continued from page 16] then there was that one year -­(American colleges) is for some 1978. General Managers to start You guessed it. Jim Craig.believing," he said, sounding a led Boston University to the lot like Herb Brooks, his Ol­title. ympic mentor. Herb's team 
The NHL's Stanley Cup play· 
believed. 
offs continued last night, with Regarding the debate as to the ninth place Flames, who 
conference supremacy (East, have now lost 14 of 15 playoff
Central, or Western Collegiate games in their history, losingAssociation), Craig said quite to the New York Rangers,. 5-1. honestly, "I don't know e­
] im Craig was not in goal. You nough about the WCHA or see, the Flames already have 
the CCHA to say." 
two very able-bodied goalies in But I pushed the issue Riggin and Dan Bouchard 
further. "Who recruited you Three is more than any team 
· out of high school?'' 
wants or needs. Craig's futun: is in the hands of Atlanta'-;''Nobody wanted me back front office.
then." 
WCHA teams have won sev­It appears rhe gripping 1t·al en of the last eight NCAA ity that Craig has ro deal wtth crown, and 14 of the 20 . is that once you reach the llll; Olympians came from that of the mountain, the real worl.l conference, facts which indi­is out there waiting for a pet, t' 
cate western dominance. But of the rock. 



ROWING 
who: NO CREW vs. UNIV. of MICHIGAN and GRAND VALLEY 
when: SATURDAY, 12 APRIL FIRST EVENT 11 :30 am 
where: MISHAWAKA MARINA ST. JOSEPH RIVER 
ATTENTION COLLEGE SENIORS 

We have executive positions available in more than 40 career fields. Qualify and you can find yourself filling one of these as an Air Force officer. Plus. the Air Force offers you an excellent salary and working conditions .. . training ... 30 dey;; of pr;id vaca1ion a year .. . and many opportunities for advancement 
and ~r oduate education.  - 
·~.\;1!1 • ow. Firn..-j out It you con.fili or,;;: vf  ·  ':se  
oositions ot resoonsibilitv.  

Msgt.Stan Steward 219~287"6616 
o COLLECT 


A great -•of life 

• 
• 

The Observer -Sports Thursday, April1 0, 1980 -page 14 
Recruits sign 
Molarity by Michael Molinelli 

Doonesbury 

The Daily Crossword 

© 1980 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All ~;.-..-.•~ C!"~""'r""' 
NICKlES 
SENIOitS, 



BEFORE YOU HEAD OFF CHICAGO FOR THE FORmAL, HOW ABOUT RIBS AT NICKlES? 
TONIGHT 6-9pm 
Rib Tips and a Draft ONLY 13.75!1 
mUST BE AT LEAST 21 TO ENTER 

sur LATELY TJIJN66 HA.V£ Nor GONE 700 WELL 
wml MY GROUP. MY 
MSI~TANT PlfOF.ESSOR 
H.4.5 BEEN MIS51N6 IN 7HE JlJWGL£ FOii Th.t> WE.EJ<G. .• 

4110/80 
I 
ALL f>1Y UNDER6RAP.5 HAVE MALARIA MJ> 11Y GIWXKTE 511.JC£1ff HAS ,BEEN JAIL£0... AS A Ptf'SULI 

by Garry Trudeau 

ACROSS 26 Offered as 56 High 22 Patriotic 1 Botanist example transits org. 
Gray 29 Cuss word 57 Unilateral 26 Hebrew 4 Yawns 31 -culpa pacts prophet 9 Painting 32 Pipe joint 61 Red Sea 27 Adroit 
surface 34 Nouveau -peninsula 28 Japanese 14 Viral 38 Jeeps and 62 Purloin outcast disease dune bug-63 Highway: 30 Onassis 15 White gies abbr. 33 Stowe 
popular 43 Pilot 65 Sparkle character 16 iron ore 44 Woodsman's 66 Color 35 School 17 Rat-a--tool 67 Charged junket 18 Strange 45 Beard of particle 36 Chops 19 Kind of grain 68 Authority 37 Helot's kin 
diet 46 -of living 69 Filled up 39 Cowardly 
20  Bon vivants  49  Deadend  
23  -Lanka  street  
24  Yachting  52  Kind of  
25  Unscholarly  paper  
mark  54  Cupid  

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


70 Notebook 40 Spanish gold 
DOWN 41 Real 1 Sternward 42 Line or 2 Thick slice stitch 3 Inquisition 47 Caspian, 
horrors for one 4 ·Irish 48 Secret 
t0ngue meetings 5 Busy as-50 Skinned 6 Filled an 51 Beverage 
area 52 Twill 7 Howe fabric 8 Get hot 53 -Oakley 9 Asian ipass) desert 55 Port of 
10 Selective Rome 
11 Allotment 58 On the 
12 Have ESP side of 
13 Fort-59 In thing 
21 Montevi-60 Greek porch deo's land: 61 NCO abbr. 64 Remnant 
soum BEND, Ind (AP) • 
Swin_Jman Tom Sluby and cen­
ter ) oe Kleine, both prolific 
scorers and rebounders m high 
school, signed national letters 
of intent yesterday with the 
University of Notre Dame. 
Sluby, a 6-foot-4 leaper from 
Gonzaga High School m Wash­
in~ton, D.C., averaged 23.8 
pomts and 1~ rebounds a game 
last season. He was the player 
of the year in the Washington 
metropolitan area. 
The 6-11 JPeine averaged 27.1 
points and 17 rebounds and led 
Slater High School to the run­
nerup spot in the Missouri state 
tournament. 
Both Sluby and Kleine were 
All-American picks by Parade 
Magazine. 
"Sluby probably is as versatile a player as we've seen any­where this year," said Coach Digger Phelps, who loses only guards Rich Branning and Bill Hanzlik from this past season's 22-6 Irish team. 
''At 6-4, he can play anf!ihere on the floor, and wtth an average of 1~ rebounds, it's obvious he jumps extremely well. He's the kind of player who can help you in a number of areas." 
Phelps said Kleine h.u "put instincts around the basket, and he displays the kind ofrebound­ing intensity you like to see. He has a super shooting touch to go with it, and he was generally considered one ofthe top two or three (high school) centers in the country." 
Notre Dame had hoped to land 6-4 guard Jim Master, India­na's Mr. Basketball from Fon Wayne Harding who signed with Kentucky yesterday. Phelps indicated the Irish may cry to sign one more player. 
...Van.ce 
(continued from page 1) 

of its oil from Iran, and in Western Europe the percentage ranges from 4 percent to about 9 percent, according ro State Department officials. 
The Iranians have hinted they will cut off oil to any nation that cooperates with the U.S. sanc­tions. 
Meanwhile, the militants who have held the American hos­tages since seizing the U.S. Embassy in Tehran last Nov. 4 threatened yesterday to kill their host~es and bum the embassy if the United States tries "even the smallest" mili­tary move against Iran. (See story on page n . . . . 
The Carter administranon ts hinting at a possible naval blockade of Iran or a move to mine Iranian ports if the hos­tages :>.re not f: -~t:d .. 
Iraruau Fore.~n Minister Sa­dr.·,.•h Ghotb~ · . intet"-'~ewed b}' L.. -~-televt = •a net~·· .~s. said · . . doubt• -~ clle lt.mulD g• •r ·:tt l be · "in a ?ositii.J, .• , ..-: militants 
~o.n k . ~es. 
·~a trrces who asked ~o 1 .:ified said Algeria 11as a&.l·..~~u to he_ Iran's "protective pow~r," taking re· sl?onsibt!ity fot pr:ot~c~ing ~a 01,1n property and ctttzens m the United ~Yatr-s now that Jiplom«dc relations have been severed. 
The sources said the arrange­ment has not yet been formally approved by the United States, which has the right to reject specific terms. 
... 
The Observer Thursday, April10, 1980 -page 15 
House for rent Sept. 3. Bedroom~ ers. are Shiela, Ann and Lola: garage, air conditioning. Near N.D. condition. Call Lewis at 1234 weekdays To S.R.'s, B-52's, overnight guests, xoxo 
your Yankee friend

$200 Includes everything. 233-1329. or 288-2961 evenings and weekends. Ho J.o·s and a great time! Thanks. Cindv and Janet 



Thursday, April10, 1980 -page 16 
SRorts 
Lacrosse club defeats Lake Fo.test 
The Notre Dame lacrosse club, recently returned from sunny Texas, played their first home game in yesterday's dis­m11 weather against previously undefeated Lake Forest Col­lege. The Irish were led by ~ophomore attackman Mike l.~·nch who scored three goals 1n the 12-8 victory. Lynch .;cored the first two goals for 1he Irish and completed his hat ~rick in the second half. Cap­tain Nick Gehring and junior midfielder Carl Lundblad each , hipped in two goals while the 
·earn's  other  captain,  Mike  
~nr,on.  added a goal an d two  
;i'iS!StS  

Fre~hman Goalie AI Pinado prove,{ wugh in the Irish net, makir g thmeen saves while defensemen Mark Tallmadge, \1o Beshlian and Tim Michels cased his task with sturdy defensive play. The Irish, now )-2, face the University of Illinois in Chanpaign on Satur­day, then return to play the Univt:rsity of Michigan next Wednesday night on Cartier Feild. 

New commissioner 
Bookstore schedules available 
Retiring Bookstore Basket­ball Commissioner Leo Latz mad(' several major an­nouncements last night regard­mg the upcoming tournament. Latz and the Bookstore Com­mittee announced the selection of sophomore Rob Simari as the new Bookstore Basketball Commissioner. Simari, a Stan­ford resident, is only the fourth Bookstore mentor in the nine­year history of the tournament. 
Past commissioners were Latz, Tim "Bone" Bourret and Vince 
Meconi. · 
Latz also promoted last year's assistant commissioners Mary Beth Sterling and Anne Fink to Associate Commis­sioner status. Latz will preside as commissioner emeritus. 
Another major development was declared by the Bookstore Committee. They decided to expand the field of this year's tourney to 384 teams. This means that all but five of the waiting list teams will be allowed to compete in the tournament. The five teams still on the waiting list will be contacted. The new 64 teams will be expected to bring their $2 registration fee when they pick up their schedules. Wait­mg list teams must pay the fee or they will not be allowed to compete. 
Schedule pick-up will be tonight at 130 Stanford Hall, the new Bookstore Headquar­ters, from 6:00p.m. until 10:00 
p.m. Teams must pick up their schedules at that time or forfe:~ their spot in the tournament. The Bookstore T purney begins this Saturday, April 12. 
Frank 

LaGrotta Marvin Miller and his band of wayward millionaires 

Meet Nolan. 

Every three months for the next three years, Nolan's name will 
appear on the "Pay to the order of --" line of a check made out 
for 250,000 dollars. Nolan makes one million dollars a year --in 
cash. No bonuses, no benefits, no deferred payments. Just 
money. . _,. 

From that you mrght assume that whatever Nolan does it must 
be pretty important. He must be a doctor that saves li~es or a 
president that saves countries (present President excluded.) 
Nolan must be a real asset to society. 
Not really. 

Nolan throws a baseball for the Houston Astros. He throws it 
real fast and real hard and sometimes real well. He does this 
about forty games a year and usually his team wins half of those 
ga~es. At that rate, those wins cost his team about 50,000 dollars 
aprece. 
By t~e way, Nolan's last name is Ryan and he's just one of the overpard, underworked leeches called prufessional athletes Others include Dave Parker (1,100,000 dollars a year), Pete Rose. (8~~.000 dollars a year) and Dave Winfield (yet-to-be-determined mdlwns of dollars a year and a McDonald's franchise). 
But don't be misled. Not all players make that much money. Some on11 make a few hundred thousand dollars a year. Poor fellows ...how do they ever make ends meet? 
Which all leads to a problem I have with this asinine baseball players strike. I just cannot fathom how grown-up, adult-t)'pe people that. possess at le!lst a minimu~ amou~t of intellegence can complam about anythmg when they re makmg 30 or 40 times !is m~ch money as most peol'le in this country. And most people m thts country do 30 or 40 umes more work than they do. 
Now the expected rebuttal is that owners are making more­money than ever so they should share it with the players. Why? 
. If a man owns ~ businc::ss, should he let his employees dtctate how he runs tt? Constder the restaurant owner that has a busy day on Mother's Day. His profit that day is higher than usual. Should he have to split that profit with his employees? 
I think not. 

An~ along that sa~e vein, if the owners were to suddenly expenence a draught; ifthe revenues they take in annually were to drop unexpectedly, do you think any of the well· paid martyrs on the field would be willmg to take a salary cut? 
But there's more to the players' discontent than that. They are also upset ~ecause of the minimum of six years that each player must se!"'e in the. maj'?rs before being able to become a free a~ent wtthmlt havtng hts new owner compeasate his old owner wr.th ~ p!ayer of equal value. The Players Association wants to see th1s hmtt reduced to four years. Their leader Marvin Miller says it's only fair. (conti~ued on page 13j 
American dream returns to reality 
On February 12, twenty Americans stepped onto the Olympic ice--their team selectea7th among the 12 national squads. On February 24, they steppedoffas number one, draped in Old Glory. from Miracle on Ice, 
New York Times 
There stood an exhaustedJim Craig, gazing into the stands looking for hts dad, cltnging to the American flag and the hockey stick he had used so much over the preceeding 12 days. 
It took the public eye less than two weeks to fall in love wtth their hockey hero. It took him a lifetime to get there. 
Reaching such a plateau of international supremacy can come as quite a shock to both the country that a team represents and, of course, the players themselves. Yet perhaps 
none  of the players' lives  were  affected  so  
drastically as Jim Craig's.  
His professional  commitment  was  to  the  

Atlanta Flames, one of the National Hockey League's more financially troubled franchises. Atlanta drafted him after his sophomore year in college back in 1977. Wheth~"r or not ] im · was ready for the pros ur not was of lirtle consequem.-t T'Je F'·,mes needed him. not in goal, L. tV fit' gate. Atlanta 
draws well under 10,000 fans per game and will lose $2 million this year. But the national recognition of a Jim Craig would turn all that around. 
On Sunday --a gold medal. On Monday -· lunch at the White House. On Tuesday -­Good Morning, Amen·ca. On Wednesday--a parade in his homf. rown of North Easton, 
Michael Ortman 


Mass. On Friday --Atlanta's starting goalie against Colorado. Afew ounces of gold sure keeps a 22-year old busy. 
Maybe too busy. 

In his NHL debut, Craig turned back 24 of the Rockies 25 shots on goal en route to a 4-1 Atlanta win. The Flames' first sellout crowd of the year went wild. The reporters who had been breathing down his neck intensified. 
Guess who was on the cover of Sports Illustrated the following week? 
Not that the magazine carries a jinx or anything, but the schedule he was trying to keep up with, the never-ending barage of questions he fielded from hundreds of reporters and the intense pressure he was under were slowly killing him. His health was going downhill fast. His patience with reporters and well-wishers was understand­ably wearing thin. 
Three more appearances in the Atlanta goal did not prove to be as successful as the first -­two losses and a tie and 12 goals against, three less than he gave up in seven Olympic contest. A vacation was in order for a rapidly deteriorating kid who was growing old in a hurry; so off to Florida he went. 
Last Thursday he , rested, tan, and reasonably healthy. s next game was the regular season finale, meaningless to the Flames, yet the biggest in the six-year history of the host Washmgton Capitals. For the young Caps, the 16th and final playoff spot was at stake. 
After the game, the Flames were proud of themselves. They had been the ''Capital Killers" by virtue of their 4-4 tie. Pat Riggin, two years younger than Craig, played the entire game in goal. Yet to watch the local press, you'd have thought Craig had just posted a shutout in the seventh of the Stanley cup finals. 
I had the opportunity to join that pen and pad toting throng, yet as I waited for the local TV to finish their exclusives, my sympathy for Craig grew. 
One of his teammates yelled across the locker room, "Good game, Jim." There was no reaction to the taunt. 
What could I possibly ask Jim Craig that he had not been asked or that had not been printed a dozen times already? I ventured into collegiate hockey in the United States. 
''I think it can become a stepptn~ stone to the pros pretty soon," he said, 'just like basketball and football." Although Craig has now entered the world of high priced professionals ($45,000 signing bonus with Atlanta, $85,000 per year through 1983 plus endorsments --already $35,000 from Coca­Cola), he hasn't forgotten his college days. 
O£ course, the Olympic victory turned the heads ofmany pro scouts. ''All they need now 
[continued on page, 13] 






