, , , Test scam -page 3 

VOL. XN, NO. 105 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, MARCH 13, 1980 
SLFspeaker 

Cage baffles audience 
by Tom O'Toole 
Avante-guarde composer John Cage confounded an overflow crowd in the library auditorium last night with his lecture for the Sophomore Literary Festival. 
Cage, who makes his living in New York "composing, writing, etchmg, and picking mushrooms," delivered a speech entitled, "Marcel Duchamp, James Joyce, Eric Satis, and the Alphabet," which was composed by chance procedures. 
As apreface to his composition, Cage explained that art, like life, is incomprehensible and can be useful to us only when we find it outside of libraries. ''Like in Finnigans Wake, we live in a universe that is not clear and concise," he said. Humans will not live long with things they can't explain, but they also cannot release their love for the dark. These writers wrote works that we can't explain, but we cannot understand our own dreams many times either,'' he said. 
Cage explained the methods he used in writing his piece. "Each letter in each name (of his subjects) was assigned a word either from the dictionary or the encyclopedia, which began with the same first letter. Thus, the first word was choosen from the first page of the dictionary entries which correspond with the first letter m the first name, and so on," he revealed. 
[continued on page 4] 

CLC rejects keg proposal 
by John McGrath Senior StaffReporter 
The latest disappointing student affairs decision--the Campus Life Council's Monday night defeat of the so-called keg proposal--has many people on campus, including students and rectors, wondering about the future of the CLC. 
In an open letter to The Observer's readers published in today's issue, Keenan Hall rector and CLC member Fr. Richard Conyers cast serious doubt on the merits and contin­ued operation of the CLC. 
''The CLC can only be a frustrated body which plays at giving advice or in which a small few develop parliamentary and debating skills,'' Conyers wrote in his letter. "But who cares about developing parliamentary or debating skills? Who wants to submit him or herself to the frustrations of careful work ignored or even ridiculed?'' 
Student Body President Bill Roche, although expressin~ concern over the CLC's deCI­sion, took a more moderate stance during an interview last night. When asked whether he shared the position held by many that Monday night's action had compromised the CLC' s future effectiveness, Roche disagreed. 
''] ust because we lost on a little thing like kegs, I can't see giving up," Roche said. "To say kegs was the biggest thing all year--no. To get better student in~;ut into administra­tion decisiOns--that was our goal and I think we've suc­ceeded." 
Conyers, in evaluating the CLC's short history, wrote: "Far from raising and solving any issues, however, it (CLC) has mirrored effectively both student apathy and disorgani­zation, as well as administrative isolation and autonomy.'' 
The keg proposal asked that "each hall be permitted to determine its own policy rela­tive to the use of kegs in party rooms.'' The proposal failed to ~arner the necessary 2/3 major­Ity at Monday night's meeting. Eleven members favored the proposal, six opposed it, and Vice President for Student Affairs John Van W olvlear 
[continued on page 6] 

Editorial.· Keenan rector blasts CLC 
Editor's Note: As the legislative that it would allow interchange body ofthe Notre Dame student and communication between government, the Campus Life the Administration and the 22 Cf!u~~zl [CLC ]Pu:p_orts ~0 "ad-residential communities, with vtse the admznzstratzon by the hope that there would be an proposing rule changes. On effective source for raising and Monday, the CLC voted not to ·solving issues of interest and pass on to the administration a importance for full life at Notre proposal which would allow Dame. Far from raising and kegs ofbeer in designated hall solving any issues, however, it 
party rooms, .a proposal the administration had promised ear/ier in the year would be given afairhean'ng. The propo­sal fazled on the basis of negative votes cast by two administrators and four hall rectors. In this letter to the editor, Fr. Richard Conyers, Keenan rector and CLC mem­ber, articulates what The Ob­server editon'al board feels are the weaknesses in the CLC which render it impotent as a legislative body. 
Dear Editor: 
Monday night at the tenth meeting of the Campus Life Council surfaced once again, the issue: ''What is the CLC all about?" We are continually reminded that this body has no legislative ability--so it can only be deliberative and advisory. Perhaps it can aid the process of communication between members of the residential communities and the adminis­tration. 
The CLC was born--approved 
by the Trustees with the hope 
), 

has mirrored effectively, both student apathy and disorgani­zation, as well as administrative isolation and autonomy. 
The administrative model of "in loco parentis" (which sometimes works as a pedago­gical model, but never as an administrative model) contin­ues, but now including not only questions of imparting values, but also of determining minute details of daily life. 
''We know what is best for you", says the insecure parent, "just do as we say--you will thank us later''. The policy makers at Notre Dame continue to "know what is best" for students and in a genuine and generous concern for students, absolve themselves from the need for consultation with, or advice from students under the paternalistic rubric "We know what is best for you, do as we say, ·you will thank us later." 
The CLC can only be a frustrated body which plays at giving advice or in which a small few develop parliamen­tary and debating skills. When those advised can re~ularly ignore or veto the advice, or where issues are regularly/re­judged and predetermine by the heavy influence of a power­ful few, can there really be any interchange or communication? Only if the advised is benevo­lent or patronizin~. 
It is not sur;msing that the CLC can't achieve a quorum. Who cares about developing parliamentary or debatin~ skills? Who wants to submit him or herself to the frustra­tions of careful work ignored or even ridiculed. It is significant that the absenteeism comes not from the student representa­tives, but. from the rectors and the faculty representatives, who know that their voices will be heard on more significant levels. 
What should be done? What can be done? I would like to make a few suggestions. 
First:: If the CLC is to aid communication and inter­change between residential communities and the Office of Student Affairs, as an advisory body, we should not allow the prejudging and predetermina­tion of advice by allowing the advised to vote. As presently constituted, the Vice President for Student Affairs and the Dean of Students, who are the chief .formulators and administrators of policy vis a vis student life, · are given equal vote as well as 
veto power. Let them listen to ' advice and not subvert or ; prejudice the same. I Secondly: We should exa­mine the deplorable situation existing between faculty and residential communties. It is clear that the academic faculty is not sufficiently interested in the residential character and aspects of life to send two representatives to the CLC on a sufficiently regular basis to. insure a rational voice and vote. 
Thirdly: We need to debate and discuss the role ofAdminis­tration on the local levels. In the 22 residential communities, do the students have the abili­ties or right to influence policy? Are rectors just another seg­ment of administrative "in loco parentis' ' or are they secure enough in their idea of the local community as to allow real voice to all members of that local community? What is the administrative model in the 22 dorms? What is the role of the rector in relation to staff. council, judicial board, student affairs? It is certainly time to ask these questions without anyone being threatened. 
Ifthe CLC continues as it has gone for the past three years, I , as the only member other than the Dean of Students who has endured all three years, will not 

Khomeini urges large 

voter turnout 
AP-Ayatollah-Ruhollah Khomeini urged Iranians yes­terday to strengthen the Islamic Republic and dash the hopes of the ·:?ppressiye U.S. govern­ment by turmng out en masse to elect a new parliament. Khomeini has said the parlia­ment will decide the fate of the American hostages. 
In a message broadcast by Tehran Radio on the eve of the first round of parliamentary • voting Friday,· Iran's 79-year­old revolutionary leader sa:d the enemies of Islam want a small turnout. But he added: 
"I hope that by your public participation in the elections you will dash the hopes of the enemies ofthe Islamic republic, the agents of the overthrown regime and its followers, espe­cially the oppressive U.S. go­vernment. Arise on the day of determining the country's fate and storm the ballot boxes to cast your votes. 
"I hope the nation, after carefully studyin~ the back­grounds of individuals and groups, will vote for those who are faithful to Islam and the constitution, are free of tenden­
[continued on page 3] 
· 

blame the body for voting itself 
out of existence.  But should  
this'  happen,  the  residential  
community  would  simply  ac­ 

knowledge and accept what now appears to be the fact, an unacceptable and unreasonable administrative model. 
'Rev. Ri~hard]. Conyers, CSC 

~~ ­
--·-~-~-·­


News irrbrief T­
Thursday, March 13, 1980 -page 2 
WOWprogram continues 
Congressionalleaders agree 
SW"immer Nyad speaks at SMC


onfederalbudgetcut 
think of.'' She added that the disciplin­
by Ma7. Kay Leydon 
"I think swimming is one of ing for the sport is physical as
Staff Reporter 
the least questionable sports," well as mental. An entire year WASHINGTON (AP) -Administration and confressional Diana Nyad, a record-break­Nyad said. "It continues the is dedicated to preparation for aleaders have tentatively agreed to trim as much as 17 billion ing marathon swimmer, spoke ancient Greek helenistic tradi­long swim. The preparation isfrom the federal budget, which could include eliminating 

Saturday mail delivery and changing the way cost-of-living to a group of Saint Mary's and tion of sports. It requires divided into two six month 

human beings to pit strength of periods. One half of the year is 

Notre Dame students last night 
adjustments in Social Security a.n~ other benefits are figured, body, spirit and mind against physical preparation, while the

as part of the Womc·11's Oppor­
sources said yesterday. TheiPPlmcallyvolatile Social Security other half combines the phys­

tunity Week Program. Nyad's the elements."
issue dominated a two-hour closed door meeting of Senate ical with mental preparation.

was the fourth in a series of five Nyad added that she "didDemocrats, shortly before negotiations from Congress and I wanted me long two
lectures being held on the Saint not set out for money. "It takes as asthe administration huddled again in hopes of working out Mary's campus this week. the experience, travel and most months to adjust after a longways to balance the fiscal 1981 federal budget. There also 
were increasing signs that President Carter's plan to Nyad discussed her life prior of all pride. Unlike many swim such as the Cuban 

to her discovery of marathon people, I enjoy what I'm doing. attempt," Nyad commented. 
increase defense spending by $5 billion to $7 billion might be swimming. After a two year It is what I do best. I give 110 In the summer of 1978, Nyad in danger. That projected increase puts added pressure on 

negotiations to cut other programs more deeply in order to battle with a heart infection at percent every time I swim.'' attempted to .swim from the 

"Marathon swimmers re­coast ofFlorida to Cuba. While

age sixteen, Nyad failed to
balance the budget, now expected to be about $20 billion to quire hearts of giants. They are she failed to complete the

make the Olympic swimming team of 1968. She then decided 
$25 billion in deficit. 
well trained and well tuned swim, she did swim a record­athletes," Nyad said. "A breaking 76 miles, the longest

to pursue another aspect of the 
swimmer must endure shark distance ever swum by man or
Carter reque$tS voluntary 

sport, marathon swimming. 
In July of 1969, after months attacks, jelly fish stings and woman. of traimng, Nyad entered her exhaustion. Combatting ex­''I swim for myself, for my first marathon race across Lake 
haustion is a major concern memories and to make


Olympic product embargo 

Ontario. She placed third while swimming. Hallucina· money." Nyad added that it is among men and first among tions are a problem, especially the self accomplishment, the WASHINGTON (AP) -The Carter administration yester­
women in the event. It was also during the extremely long sixty feeling of pride that drives her day asked U.S. companies not to export to the Soviet Union 
the first in a series of world hour swims. As the human forward. "That is what pro­an estimated $20 million in products relating to the Summer 
records. body deteriorates, so does the gress is all about. Pursueing Olympics. The embargo, which would be voluntary, followed 
Nyad has swum Lake mind. It takes a great deal of something at 110 percent is the suspension on Tuesday of sales of U.S. stamps and 
Ontario, Lake Michigan, the mental strength to even re­what the human race is all postcards commemorating the Olympics to be held in 
North Sea, through the Great member who you are." about," she concluded. Moscow this summer. 
Barrier Reef, the Nile River, the 
Indian Ocean and "most every 
other body of water you can

Weather 
~eavy sno~ warning for e:=trlY to~ay. _Accumulations of 3·5 

~-The Observer_
mches posstble before endmg. Htghs m the low to mid 30s. 
Night Editor: Steve ''Inquisi­
Cloudy tonight with l0ws in the low 20s. Mostly sunny Friday tion" Swonkwith highs near 40. 
Asst. Night Editor: Bill "Baseball" Keenan, Eddie "Dr. Death" Holden Layout Staff: Mary ''All They Yook Was The Grain" Silvt




CamP-_us.,;;;;,__-j 
News Editor: Mark Rust Features Layout:Sal "IRC" Granata
8:30 am-12 pm & 1-4:30 pm KEENAN REVUE TICKET 

Sports Layout: Mary Perry 
DISTRIBUTION, free tickets will be distributed for the 

Typists: Beth Huffman, Mi­
variety show in O'LAUGHUN AUDITORIUM and from 4-6 

chelle Kelleher, Kathy Pes­
pm in WASH. HALL tin, Nancy Russell 

EMT: Paul ''Jamaican'' Se­1-3 pm EXHIBITION "artworks" univ. n. kentucky IS.S 
lavko, Kim Convey GALLERY 
Proofreader: Mike Onufrak 
ND Day Editor: Janet Rigaux
4:15 pm ALTERNATIVE CAREER EXPLORATIONS 

SMC Day Editor: Cece Ba­
"volunteers in.s,ervice to america," jeanne carney, depute lilesdir. vi~\:a;L'rB AUD, open to all, spon by ctr. for exp. learn­

Ad Design: Bub "Rug" Ru­
ing, volunreer services and placement 

dy, Molly O'Neill ' 
Photographer: Mr. "O.C."
6 pm SLIDE SHOW holy cross sisters with cambodians 

Michael Bigley CARROLL HALL SMC 
Guest Appearances: Michael 
Ortman, Dierdre "P.I.T.A."
6:30 pm MEETING leadership training class campus 

Murphy, Ryan "Six Weeks
crusade for christ LEWIS HALL REC ROOM 

Premature" Ver Berkmoes 7 pm MEETING nd historical society officer nominations will 
The Observer [USPS 511 120] Is
be made RM 118 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL , 

published Mllllday thraugh Frldly II· cept during exam and VICIIIIn perilds. 7 pm MEET YOUR MAJOR -TEACHER EDUCATION 
The Observer Is publlsllld by till students of Nlltrl Dlllll IIIII Saint
ROOM 121 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL. 
Mary's Cllllge. Sublcrlpu..IIIIY bl purdlned lor S28 per yur 1111 per IIINitlr) lrom The Observer, 1'.0. blx Q, Nltn Da1111, IIICIIana 415116. Slcllld
7:30 pm JAPAN ESE FILM SERIES "an autumn afternoon" 
clau "==' paid, Nitre D11111, In-
WASHINGTON HALL spon by depts. of sp/dr and modern 
diana .
and classical languages $1 
The Observer Is 1 lllllllblr II 1111 Auaclatld Preu. All IIPIIdlctlln rifhts .,. memd.
Bpm MASTER L~CTURE SERIES ''life span developmental ps¥chology: prom1se or despair, "dr. paul baltes, pa. st. umv. HAGGAR HALL AUD. spon by psychology dept. 
8 pm ~PEAKER jacqueline means, fist ordained wumai11in the ep.1scopal ch~;~rch CARROLL HALL SMC spon by women s opportumty week 


MOLSON PARTY 
8 pm FACULTY RECITAL bruce gustafson, harpsichord LITil.E THEATRE SMC spon by dept. of music 
8 pm SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL roy fischer 
at LEE'S 2/S 1 from 9pm-11 
english poet MEM. LIB AUD ' 
2/$1.5011-1 
8-10 . pm MOVIE the original "from here to eternity" starnng burt lancaster GRACE PIT free 
8 pm-12 am JUNIOR CLASS NITE AT THE NAZZ 
8:30, 10:30, 11:30 pm movie "the secret of loving" spon by 
campus crusade for christ LEWIS HALL FARLEY HALL 
and FISHER HALL respectively ' ' 
10 pm MEETING floc: phase 2 LA FORTUNE BALLROOM 
The Observer 

Charges weaken: Swartz 
by Lynne Daley StaffReporter 

Premliminary investigation alleged cheating on the March 6 examination in Economics courses 124 and 224 has 
"Failed  to  substantiate"  the  
charges,  according  to  
Economics  Professor  Thomas  
R. Swartz.  

As a result, Swartz said, he released the grades of students who live in the dorm where the incident reportedly occurred. 
Professor Charles K. Wilber, chairman of the Economics Department, confirmed that Dillon Hall is the dorm under investigation. ''This issue is not bemg dropped or covered up. The investigation will continue," Wilber said. 
"We're at a point where the evidence we have is insufficient to call an Honesty Committee,'' Wilber said. ''The person who told us there was an exam loose in Dillon had second-hand information. That made our position very weak.'' 
Students accused of the honor code violation · were brought before Dean of Students James A. Roemer. ''Dean Roemer talked to the students and they did deny it,'' Wilber said. 
According to Wilber, the students claimed they flashed a past exam and kidded that they had obtained a copy of the following day's exam. 
''There may have been a theft and cheating, but no one seems able to prove it. We hve to have somebody come up and say 'I saw,' instead of ·i heard,' " Wilber stated. 
Swartz stressed that all grades will stand unless a further investigation uncovers conclusive proof that cheatingoccurred. '·There will always
be some lingering doubt (that 1
cheating occured). The on y alternative would be to re-test 
the entire class. In all justice,this isn't fair. The vast majority of the students are clear as the driven snow," Swartz said. This "lingering doubt" was 
expressed by seven Dillon residents who take the course and were surveyed at random 
last night. One student said,
1 h d.d · 
''The peop e w 0 1 lt got 
away with it." 
'A certain person said he had 
the test the night before. 
Everyone knows he had it. I'm 
ure if we went down, he would 
have shown it to us '' another 
'd t rated ' 
rest en s . 
''I'm hoping that it they did do it they will have gotten enough of a scare so that it won't happen again. I also hope that the people in Dillon will treat their friends accordingly. That will be enough punishment," Wilber said. 


Lack ofND-SMC cooperation produces scheduling conflict between SLF,WOW 
by Pam Degnan Senior StaffReporter 

A lack of cooperation between the Notre Dame Student Union and the Saint Mary's Student Government has resulted in the scheduling of the Sophomore Literary Festival and Women's Opportunity Week for the same date, according to the Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's  com­ 
mittee chairmen.  
Dave  Ellison,  Cultural  Arts  

Commissioner, pointed out that it is the responsibility of the Saint Mary's Student Govern­ment to work with the Notre Dame Calender office when programming campus events. 
"We try to make the schedul­ing of events available. to. the public so campus orgamzanons can plan around certain func­tions," Ellison said. "It must 
-be a cooperative effort.'' Accordmg to Ellison, the dates for the Sophomore Literary 
. Festival were decided last A­pril. He said he was a "bit surprised" that Saint Mary's had scheduled WOW for the same week. 
"I contacted Saint Mary's last year concerning the festival and I think it's just a waste that both events had to happen at the same time," Ellison said. "Ap­parently there is a lack of cooperation. ' ' 
According to Kathy Sweeney, Chairman of Women's Oppor­tunity Week, the lecture series was scheduled for March 9-14 last May. Sweeney charged, however, that as vice president for Student Affairs in charge of scheduling campus events, she received no cooperation from 
.. . Iran 

[continued from pageI] 
cies toward left or right, and are 
renowned for their good record 
and commitment to Islam. The nation should know that to stray 
from this important Islamic task would be treason to Islam and the country·" 
Khomeini said he feared hostile propaganda "might in­fluen~e some of the public so that they vote for those basi­cally opposed to Islam for the 
benefit of foreigners."
The second round of parlia­
· k 1 

me~tary votmg ta e~ P ace Apnl 4, and the .l~gtsl.ature, · known as the Maj!Js,_ ts ex­pected to conven.e. sever~! weeks la~er · Khomemt has s~td the parliament should dectde
f h 

whethe.r or not to . ree t e approximately 50 setz~d. 130 ?ays ago by Moslem mtlt~ants tn the U.S. Emb~ssy. Prestdent A.bolhassan Bam,-Sadr ha~ pre­dtcted the captt~~s . won t be release~ bef?re mtd-May at the earhest. 
the ND Student Union. 
''I sent out numerous letters to 
various people in the Student 
Union last summer. The only 
feedback I received was a list of 
five movies that were to be 
shown throughout the year,'' 
Sweeney said. "We can't be 
expected to guess when ND 1events will be scheduled." 
Director ofSaint Mary's Student 
Activities Mary Laverty, cited a · 
definite lack of communication 
involving social event program­
ming on both campuses. Laver­
ty said she also tned to contact 
Student Union officials on nu­
merous occasions but did not 
receive any replies. 
Doug Kreitzberg, Sophomore 
Literary Festival chairman, said 
that it was an ''unfortunate 
mistake'' that the festival and 
WOW were scheduled to run during the same week. Kteitz­berg, however, pointed out that the dates for the following year's festival ace usually de­cided right after the closing of each festival. 
''The dates for the festival were decided last spring by last year's chairman. I guess we should have collaborated more with the SMC programming office,'' Kreitzberg said. 
Kevin Conry, who is in chacge of the ND Calender Office, also emphasized that there is a lack of cooperation. He said that he never received a "substan­tial'' information from the Saint Mary's Activities Offices con­cerning social events. 
"It's up to both ND and SMC 
organizations to take advantage 
of the Calender Office,·' Conry 
said. 
i juniors: sign upfor the ! ·junior class mixed doubles! pool tournament finals at ! 
Nickies i 
I 
I 

-~~~~~~~~~~~~~aaaaaati~
i 1st prize-$25.00 i 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aa~amd 
to register your team, 1 call pam atl7308 or go to the 1I secretary at student activities in Iafortune. : 
leave your names and phone nos. for more info: calldonna at 7933or tom at 1189 
BREAKTIME 
DIRECT O'HARE­
$15 EXPRESS $15 
from NOTRE DAME CIRCLE 
depart 4pm arrive 5:30pm
March27 
lOam 11:30am
March28 
lpm 2:30pm 

I I I 
, 

--~--------~------------------------------,
~ Grecian Cuisine specializing ·in Greek Gyros 
rPrime Rib $5.75 ­
Class election results 
~Surf & Turf $8.75 
by Clare Padgett Cassidy were Megan Boyle, 
Suzanne Bautista and Keith 
r: Tender Stuffed Broiled Trout --$5.75 Caughlin. 
Shishkabob $5.75
In elections marked by ex­. Next year's sophomore class 
tremely narrow margins of vic­officers will be Sarah McGrath, 
Steak & Shrimp $5.75 
tory, Mickey Turzai, Mike Mark Michuda and Bill Mateja. 
These meals include: CUPCassidy and Moe Ruggerio last The tickets were elected in a OF SOUP, SALAD, LOAF LUNCHEON SPECIALS night took next year's respec­
run-off race resembling -~--n BREAD & BUTTER. Our SERVED DAILY 
tive senior, junior and sopho­
Monday's general election in 3421 W. Sam le :appetizer, Sagonaki [Fia-Evening Dining 
more class presidencies. 
which finalists were never sep­

--42-3. (ming Greek Cheese] served Mon. thru Sat.
In addition to Turzai, the arated by more than nine votes. 2' 82-2 .compliments of the house,_..______________.senior class will be run by The Veraldi ticket was slimly 
--iwith dinner for 2. ,'.NOW OPEN SUNDAYS
vice-president Janie Revord, defeated by a 52 percent vote, 
secretary Dave Campbell and while both Verfurth and 
4::J1J.11

treasurer Chuck Meakin. Hennessey lost to 53 percent PARTIESAND~ANQUETS 
1?or Dining aad Cocktails
Elected on the ticket with majorities. 
The Observer Thursday, March 13, -page 4 
Ugandan hunger continues 
"'KARRONG, Uganda (AP)­Soon after sunrise, several hun­dred people gather at a Roman Catholic misston here to receive the daily handout that keeps them alive-a small ration of 
boiled  cornmeal  mixed  with  
skim milk powder.  
Children  in  the  group  show  

··tgns of advanced sta~vatio~­distended stomachs, pipe-thm legs and apathy. Ten new starvation casesarriveevery day at the mission in northeastern Uganda, near the borders with Kenya and Sudan. 
.\ medical assistant steps a­round the children to tend to a woman lying on a concrete floor and dying of cholera. . 
Scenes fike this are repeated at missions and clinics across Karamoja, a vast, cattle-herd­ing region of dusty plains, thorn trees and huge granite out­crops. The area ·is m its second year of drought. Rivers _an; dry and, away from the missions, hundreds of cattle and Karamo­jong tribesmen are dying. 

And if starvation doesn't kill them, there is the possibility that heavily armed cattle rus­tlers will. 
United Nations relief experts, after a recent five-day tour, reported that more than . 135,000 persons are starvmg to death in Karamoha. That's 38 percent of the region's 350,000 population. The rest of the people, the U.N. officials say, need substantial food aid to stay alive. 
On the scale of previous African famines, the situation is small-but ir is critical. 
• 
• 
Ever since British Colonial times, Karamoja has been the last part of Uganda to receive ::mention from the central gov­ernment in Kampala. Rutted, dirt roads make the region relatively inaccessible and the Karamohong remain largely unschooled, often naked, semi­nomadic herders. 

· Years of comparative n_eglect were intensified under dictator ldi Amin and the war that ousted him a year ago dis~up~ed 'jcrop planting. The new civiii_an government, preoccupied with 
·establishing irs aurhonty closer io Kampala, the capital, has done little to help. 
J Of some 150 hand-pumped .wells installed by the British in \northern 'Karamoja, only 30 sull work. There are believed to be 
l'b~c:::>c::X~~~~~~~~iollfewer than a dozen trucks in the 

MASS 

Sunday March 16 4:30pm 
!J\FORTUN~ BALLROOM 
FATHER FITZ LIGHT SUPPER SERVED 

• ' ·"' • • • • w ~ • ' ..,. ' • • • I 

entire region large enough to carry significant amounts of food. 
Aid is being left to_outsiders. Francesco Surppoli, head of the World Food Program office in Kampala, says more than 8,000 tons of cornmeal and hundreds of tons of cooking oil and skim milk powder are being rushed to Karamoja. 
On top of famine and cholera, Karamoja has become victim of the gravest peacetime outbreak of violence in Ugandan history. When Amin's soldiers aban­doned their armory last year in Morgto, the main Karamoja town, the population seized the weapons. 
AnnualASEE meetin.gto convene today 
En~ineering educators and practitioners will look at the changing technological, so­cietal, and educational needs which touch their profession during the annual meeting of the Illinois-Indiana Section of the American Society for En­gineering Education. More than 100 engineers are expect­ed to attend the meeting here today and tomorrow. 
"We are particularly enthus­ed about our plenary session on technology in and for develop­ing countries," said Dr. John 'SV'. Lucey, section chairman and associate professor of aero space and mechanical engineer­ing at Notre Dame. ''The technological needs of develop­ing nations will have a far greater impact on our students' future professional lives than they have had on ours." 
An informal session from 7 to 10 t.m. at the University Club wil open tonight's meeting. The formal program will be~in at the Center for Continumg Education tomorrow at 9 a.m. with concurrent sessions on "Ener~y Alternatives," "En­gineenng Manpower Needs in the Eighties" and "Profession­al Development of Untenured Faculty." 
Topics to be addressed dur­ing the "Energy Alternatives" session will include non-electri­cal fusion usage, gasohol, active and passive solar 'con­cepts and uulity research activ­ities. 
The plenary session at 10:45 
a.m. on "Technology In and For Less Developed Nations" will feature Denis Goulet, O'Neill Professor of Education for Justice at Notre Dame and a senior fellow with the Overseas Development Council, and John Gilligan, White Professor of Law at Notre Dame and former administrator of the Agency for International Development. 
Following the awards luncheon from 12:30 to 2 p.m., the meeting will close with three more concurrent sessions: "Trends in Engineering En­rollment,'' including the devel­opment of minority and female engineers; "Education for 
· Social Responsibility,'' and 
, •'Unconventional  Uses  of  
Microprocessors,''  primarily  
educational uses.  

The conference is open to all 
• engineers, not just members of ASEE. Registration informa­tion is available from the Notre Dame Center for Continuing Education. 
• • • • ' • • • • fl • 

Writer/composer john ~ag_e entertained an _overftow crowd last night in the library audztonum. [Photo by Mtke BzgleyJ. 
Harpsichordist Gustafson to give recital tonight 
Bruce Gustafson willjresent a recital of harpsichor music tonight at 8 in Moreau Hall's Little Theatre at Saint Mary's. The concert will feature the premiere of both the inst~'-;lment and one of the composmons. The pro~ram is open to the public without charge. 
The harpsichord Gustafson will play was custom built for him by Willard Martin, a craftsman from Bethlehem, PA. It is a modified copy of a harpsichord which was built in Pans in 1720. The sound board is elaborately decorated wi:h traditional symbols of flowers and birds. The inside of the lid, which the audience sees when the harpsichord is bein~ played, has an original otl painting in the style of Watteau, an 18th-century French painter. This will be the first solo recital played on the instrument. 
The program will include the first performance of ''Triptych'' by Roger Briggs, a composer on the Saint Mary's faculty. To allow the audience. to better appreciate the short pi_ece, it will be played twice dunng the evening. Works by LeRoux, Coupenn and Bach will com­plete the program. 
Gustafson teaches music his­tory and harpsichord at Saint Mary's. He gives concerts and lectures frequently, and is t~e director of the College s "Harpsichord Weekend." Re­cently his 3-volume study, ''French Harpsichord Music of the 17th Century,'' was pub­lished by UMI Research Press. He holds degrees from Kalamazoo College, the Uni­versity of Oklahom~ 3:nd the University of Michigan. 
Gustafson also studied in Germany and Holland, and returns to France each year to continue his research. His most recent concert appearance was as a harpsichord soloist with the Bach Festival of Kalamazoo. 
Briggs is also on the faculty at Saint Mary's. In the last year two of his compositions have been published in New York, attracting the attention of the New York Times. "Triptych" is his first work for harpstchord, although he has written pieces for other keyboard instruments. He is the director of the "New Music Festival" at S:tint Mary's, and he holds a Ph.D. in composition from the Eastman School of Music. 
... Cage 

[continued from page 1] 
As the lecture unfoldea, these chance operations allov.:ed the protagomsts to expenenc~ some strange encounters, In­cluding cocktails with Carrie Nation and telegrams from Marshall McLeun. They also spendt a midnight at Walden Pond where Thoreau toasted them with a glass he discovered that could contain any drink, and ·could never be emptied. 
"It's commuinist!"  said  Mao  
Tse  Tung.  "It's  Irish,"  said  
Joyce.  "It's simplicity,"  s3;id  

Thoreau. Cage's protagomst then attended a party on the Mediterranian at which Homer choose to sing his new revisions to The !Iliad. 
Later Duchamp was commis­sioned to build an apartment complex for Brigham Young which was to house very few bachelors, and Joyce caught Freud watching a twelve sided television, wh1ch Freud had learned to watch in such a way as to never see commercials. 
A few concrete observations did surface during the course of Cage's lecture. . In discussing music, Cage satd that people are in the habit of making music which makes nothing for them. ''We . need music that composes Itself, music that satisfies the human 
[continued on page 6] 

The Observer 
After only two hours 
Jury convicts Gacy 
CHICAGO (AP) -John W. murders intentionally com­Gacy Jr., whom prosecutors mitted in connection with devi­called the ''worst murderer'' in ate sexual assault and takingthe nation's history, was found indecent liberties with a minor. guilty in the sex killings of 33 The method of execution in boys and young men yesterday Illinois is by the electric chair. by a Circuit Court jury of seven In his 10 minutes of instruc­men and five women. The jury tion, Garripo had reminded the deliberated only one hour and jurors that a defendant is 50 minutes. presumed innocent until proven 
The former building contrac­guilty beyond a reasonable tor was convicted of 33 counts doubt, and had told them theyof murder and of taking inde­should not consider the fact that cent liberties with a minor and Gacy did not testify in reaching 
deviate sexual assault. Both their verdicts. those latter charges stemmed Piest was 15 when he disap­from the disapperance of 15-peared in December 1978, and year-old Robert Piest. prose~u~ors said he was Gacy' s 
The verdicts were read by the last v1ct1m. clerk of the court while Gacy Prosecutors said in closing sat without expression, staring arguments that while Gacystraight ahead. obviously was mentally dis­
When he was taken from the turbed, there was ample evi­court, his lips were clamped dence that he planned the and he walked briskly under killings, knew what he was 
heavy guard. doing, and should be convicted. 
Judge Louis B. Garripo of Cook County Circuit Court asked each of the jurors, who were selected six weeks ago in 
Ford jury delays ,
Rockford, 75 miles northwest of Chicago, if they heard the verdict and if it "now is your 
prosecution sees hope
verdict." In each case, the jurors replied "Yes." · WINAMAC IN (AP) -The cided." Garripo told the jurors to vigil for a verdict in Ford Motor Lawyers for the state said 
return at 1:30 J?.m. . today, Co.'s reckless homicide trial they believe the longer the jury Gacy's 38th btrthday, for a entered its third day yesterday is out, the better it is for the prosecution,__ because it indi­
hearing on whether to impose with the prosecution finding the death penalty. room for hope in the jury's cates there is a good possibility 
of a conviction or a hung jury. 
Illinois' capital punishment delay. 
''We were always optimis­law covers crimes that were ''They are obviously hung up tic,'' said deputy prosecutor
committed later than June 21, at this point, " said Terry K1ely, 1977. The necessary time a DePaul University law pro­Terry Shewmaker, reached at 
the Bass Lake cottage where
element is present in a dozen of fessor who has been assisting the prosecutors have been stay­
the murders, which the prose­the prosecution in the trial,· the cution said began in 1972. first time a corporation has ing. "People thought we were 
crazy at indictment time. ThenA number of specific types of faced criminal charges in a they thought we got smarter.
crimes are covered by the law' product liability case. "Other­We've had to be optimistic toincluding multiple murders and wi!le, they would have de­go this far. " 
The jury of seven men and 
five women returned to theSecurity tight Pulaski County Courthouse 
shortly after 9 a.m. EST and 
after a brief session with Circuit 
Judge Harold R. Staffeldt re­
Shah to undergo surgery 
sumed their deliberations. At midday, they took tome for a PANAMA CITY, PANAMA Paitilla Hospital answered lunch break and prepared to go 
Doctors and reporters' queries with the .me back to their work. 
(AP) -officials 
worked under tight security sentence they have been in­Staffeldt has said that he will yesterday to prepare a local structed to give: "We know not inquire about the jury's hospital ward for a delicate nothing." progress unless the delibera­
spleen operation on the Senior hospital officials met tions go beyond five or six days. deposed Shah of Iran, medical behind closed doors earlier this The panel has met for about 12 week to plan the operation, one hours since Monday.
sources said. 
The sources, who asked not source said, and others said an Around 5 p.m., the jurors 

IThursday, March 13, 1980 -~age 5 

to be identified, said Paitilla Iranian woman doctor who sent a message to Staffeldt that Hospital -a private Pana­accompanies the Shah almost they wanted to continue deli­manian clinic -was declared a everywhere had visited the berating into the night. Earlier 
SENIOR BAR presents
security area by authorities and Paitilla Hospital recently. in the afternoon, they told the 
all employees and medical Tourists on Contadora Island judge that if they hadn't personnel were ordered not to said the Shah played his daily reached a verdict by 5 p.m., talk about what they were two hours of tennis last week­they :wanted to go home for the 
end, and earlier in the week evemng.
doing. 
A New York spokesman for found a court opponent in Interviewed in his chambers, 
Fabulous 
the deposed monarch said Shah former King Constantine of on Tuesday, Staffeldt said that Mohammad Reza Pahlavi's Greece, toppled from his throne regardless of the outcome ofthe spleen is inflamed, enlarged in a 1967 coup. · trial, the case has sent a and probably associated with a The Shah fled Iran fourteen message to American industry. 
50's
tumor, and that he will undergo months ago during the final "Maybe no precedent setting 
an operation soon to have it bloody days of the revolution will be done here, but I think removed. _ headed by the religious there is a messa~e," the judge The former monarch now strongman Ayatollah Ruhollah said. "That 1s, that they lives on Panama's Contadora Khomeini, which culminated in (corporations) ought to refrain 
Night
the establishment of an Islamic trom doing some of the thingsIsland. His last medical check­Republic in Iran. they do and have. done. 
up a week a~o showed he had 
The Shah has been living "To me, it's gotten prettysevere anem1a, and low white under political asylum in serious. You hear on thecell and platelet blood counts, 
this friday
Panama. But the Iranian national news about the scan­Dr. Benjamin Kean, the government asked on January dals in international deals. The 
the New York spokesman said. 
march 14th 
Shah's personal physician, 23 for his extradition, accusing message here, is that people him of ordinary crimes. The don't hke that, and rightly so, i
refused to disclose the date of 
Iranian authorities have 60 days think,'' he added. 
the operation for security to present the necessary Staffeldt, who celebrated hisreasons, the spokesman said. 
featuring
The spokesman quoted Kean documents required under 61st birthday last week, said his as saying the operation would Panama's complicated extra­court docket was clear through dition laws. today . if the extra time is
be "hazardous" and that the 
Shah would require major blood Panamanian officials say it c needed for deliberation. 
dance contest 
transfusions during and after ould take years to clear the case "It's been long and complex. through the courts, and I don't want them to hurry,"
the operation. 
As preparations continued, expressed doubts that the Shah the judge said. ''I want them to 
costumes will also be rewarded
will be extradited. make sure. "employees and officials at 

The Observer Thursday, March 13, 1980 -page 6 
SUMMER JOBS Goulet speaks on economics 
All ant~rnshap~ arC" lo..-atrJ Slr.o~IER l!\1'ERNSJJII'S OtJ\Ul.INt UATI.: • in lt.;a~ohanaton D.C. 19HU S:ou prn, '1ard1 13, I!HW 
Sl'tCII:lCATIONS UthJcr.tra.Ju.1tC ___,G"'-'ora,~,uo_,.,to____,_,Po~SI'-"ti'-"'on"-----­
lt.LW. AM, f;con, ~lDA, Econ flcrsonnsl !ot.:&n.1~cmcnt Arcu 
I. .\nn. 05-17 l'sych 
~---------------­
II.Lit.. 
Develop new •ll:t. info syncm,

.!._ gt.p 
Opcntc Rosgyrcs Acq, Sys. 

'·..,"·...[~.•._.·'-----;--ru_bl_._""_"_·____''"_•_'-_'_~=_·---.!!.':~!:.!.7l!.~!!!.i~r'-ic-•l_r_••_·c_•r_ch_•_•d___ 
II.E.tc. 
2ncJ yr ~IS .Ene1nocring illld related · .\nn .m:.JS
1 
Engineering •stud1os 01nd s~y~ 
H. Lit. 
2nd yr. NS :surveys of space 
~-"""'-os~ll 
~r:!!!::*~; r 
Bur-eau or I 6 ln&ravane li Students wuh trllinina/exp. Jncvolop charac:t.orhat1on · Pr•nt inF In thcTa:Jl analysis 1mothods for prlnt1ng tnks 
7 Federal t:.cr,cncy I t:.na;r .• M:Jth, /vou~ous as~.t&niiCnt~ wtth · Hct. Acencr · Phystc~ scntor ongtnccr 
' 

K.tltOit.tl ...... l. 
naol, f.lul11. lncv. protocols fo~ &lllllltmiz.ntion 
1!1. of liraIt,. 
~bcroluol. 1w m:~larua ~porazottc ant.tgans 
I

Dept. or S•·'· BBA llu~ Ad11o, t:..:cl' Gathcrtng factual, h.tstorlcal P._Jr.:aasport.l.llon l'ul Sci, .tcon rot !'Jc..o ;,nd Stnti:stieoll data 
-----r 
r.o.:. ~:-!~:.!::; ~I[, f.U. 10 Assist senior inl.lustrial IO.lJfCu:c 
on incor 

01?1. V.ac~a..:y Srs. A...:ct ll.•l.J 
Fln 

ON, \'~c.1acy 11.·~ 
latcrul llc"""ur 11. 
Sc-nH:.:c·•-----7---------.;--------i-'-''-"-'-""---------­1"-:pt. of Labor 1.&. I'Ds. llo. OoiS 
llqJt. of L.:abor 
Ecoa ' 

IS. ros.Xo. 10.! Joum.llls• 
lk-pt. of o\rwy .... ------------Trainina in personnel •at.
Jo. 
rcr.anncl theories 
rcderoal .\"i.:r.t IOD BIA Pro&rllll Analyst 
H. Y.. 
-------------+-----i--------------­
~~~·~~~~­
1_-,_\!f.A  ______  ____  ltlcctroniu tnalncor  
Socaal  Stcunty  ....h  GS-4  Grade  Level  
19. ~···  ••  
Social Security zo. Ad.••-•z  Econa.ics  Econoaic-s  GS-S,  7and 9  Grade  LCve I  
lld.•rstate 11. ~rce t~l~l Locat i•: OicaJO  Seniors  Gradu.mte Student!!.  A!>Si!l.t regional dire-ctor  unaJ:!in~  

Anyone interested in the organization ofa 
~[)-§~£ fll~ £liJI3 
please contactJack Riley at 1062 

0... wny may be to live within "'-Auguatln..n F111temlty. When you come to live with ua, you obMrn and ~te In our community life for M¥e1111 y..111 before --*"'a a fln~~l commltmenl You obaerve that we are a rwllgloua community following the charlam of St. Auguatlne and "that together and with one h..rt In brotherhood and ..,.ritual frlendahlp, we INk and worahlp God and that we ..bor In the MrYice of the people of God." We MrYe In colleget, high achoola, parishes, foreign missions, campus mlnlatrl.., retruta, hoapltela and military chapl•lnclea. 
WANT MORE INFORMATION? CONTACT: 
Reverend John P. Stack, O.S.A. 
Villanova University 
P.O. Box 338 
Vi111n0V11, PA 19086 
(2161 525-6612 

~me______________________________________ Add~L-__________________________________ 
Ctty_________~SU!t._______,.,Zip.______ 
Sohool or Ooo. Age 
Phone 

by Patty Sheehan second more spiritual state­continued, "after a period of 
ment concerned ethical contra­time, it increases inequalities, 
The economics of our abun­dictions: "Only through ) esus not decreases them. A reward dant society and the alterna­Christ can all ethical contradic­system works with a lot of tives available for Chrisitans tions be resolved in harmony.'' losers," he noted. were the subjects ofa lecture by Goulet said that as humans, America is also under the Dr. Denis Goulet in Carroll Hall we must learn to live with illusion that it is a developed last night. contradictions in the realm of country. Technical and econo­
Goulet is a pioneer in the economic order. But "manag­mic developments are only '' ethics of development and has ing contradictions in an abun­indicators or yardsticks'' to written several articles and dant society'' does not mean ends that appear inadequate, books in an effort to identify the pretending they don't exist, for Goulet commented. issues which have become cru­the variety of contradictions is Goulet asserted that the ina­cial for Christian participants in complex, he noted. dequacy of models of develop­the development debate. He Goulet said that the American ment stems from a distorted has also done extensive field soci~ty suffers from a "disjunc­image of "the good life." work in Algeria, Lebanon, Bra­tion of realms;" a tendency for Evidence of economic growth zil and Spain. economy, politics, and culture accompanies a lack of informa­
At present, Goulet is an to follow different rules to reach tion on who benefits from the associate fellow of the Overseas diverse goals. This disjunction growth or how it is achieved. Developmental Council and stymies any agreement on es­''Society reinforces the accep­
holds the O'Neil Chair of Edu­sential human values. tance of solutions given by cationforJu.>tice at Notre Dame. Another significant contradic­experts or elites, thereby forc­
''I'm not here to tell funny -tion was the difference between ing the common citizen to sad stories, but to introduce two the equality of opportunity of­depend on outsiders, to have no contrasting statements on th,. fered by an ''abundant society'' self-reliance," he pointed out. role of conscience and ethical and the equality of results. Goulet suggested possible contradiction,'' Goulet explain­Goulet reasoned that competi­strategies to change the deve­ed. tion according to merit would lopment model. In interpreting 
The first statement was a not achieve good results if it the art the politcs as the skill in definition of conscience by a was used as an organizing creating new Possibilities , the cynic: "conscience is that part principal of economy. shaping of adevelopmentmodel of you that feels bad when the , "If competition is used as requires "implosion," or the rest of you feels good.'' The Imotor or springboard,'' Goulet testing of a system of specific 
human conditions beyond its 
limitations, he said. 
Thus, Christians have a two­
fold commitment to become
. .. Cage 
''co-creators with Christ as makers ofhistory and witnesses (continued from page 4] ture with his simple attitude to transcendence. '' toward life. "I am here. I have Goulet gave an interesting
needs like light nois2, heat. We no regrets. I welcome whatever image of the function of theneed furniture music, music happens next." United States in creating newwhich takes into consideration After his lecture was complet­economic possibilities. He li­the environment, music that ed, many members of the kened America to an oystercan fill embarassing silences as audience asked him to play that, under the right conditions, well as neutralize street noises some "furniture music" on the can produce a pearl from athat inhibit conversations," piano that had been positioned speck of sand.
Cage said. 
on stage but which he had not He said our society can "se­Cage gave his account of the touched throughout the even­crete social gastric juices torelationship of the artist to the ing. Cage coyly explained that rough stones of dissent forming audience. "I am not good or while Satis was very skilled at smooth pearls of conformity."
bad. I merely oscillate. A child it, he was not. "However, I can Goulet's lecture was the thirdhas natural wisdom; experience at least make some chair noi­in a series in conjunction withis a form of paralysis. Enter­ses," he said. As he began to the course "Christians for So­tainers should be envied but not drag a stool across the stage, cial ) ustice'' offered at Saint as much as the listener. That is 
the audience went wild. Mary's.
why it is easier to bore than 
entertain. Consequently I am 
obliged to finish my lecture one 
hour early." 
According to Cage, "A stu­
de~t needs great patience, the 
... Keg rejection pauence of a horse, huge patience to put up with his 
teacher. This is because the 
teacher will ask you questions (continued from page I] main,'' Roche said. ''It can still 
which he knows the answers to be meaningful and I intend to 
and you don't. But you have the abstained. The six anti-keg continue using it and I'm sure 
right to remain silent," Cage votes were cast by two admini-Paul Riehle (SBP elect) expects 
said. strators and four rectors. to use it next year." 
For music lessons, Cage stres­Roche blamed the proposal's Conyers is less enthusiastic. sed ample preparation and defeat on campus rectors. ''If the CLC continues as it specific time allotments. ''Do ''The rectors--that's where has gone for the past three 
your exercises, blow your nose, the problem is," Roche said. years, I, as the only member and make sure your hands ''They're the ones that voted· · other than the Dean of Students aren't filled with jelly. The time against it in the CLC.'' who has endured all three youy choose for your lesson "Was I disappointed? Yes." years, will not blame the body should also coincide with the Roche admitted. ''There had for voting itself out of exist­time your teacher chooses to been lots of good arguments in ence,'' Conyers wrote. teach it," Cage urged. "Many favor ofkegs, but I haven't seen Roche conceded that the students go through school one good one against it other anti-keg decision was a setback, without every laying eyes on than that the rectors don't want however. their teachers. Teachers and it--and that's not a good "It (keg proposal defeat) is students were put on earth to reason." frustrating in that it makes come in contact with each other When asked if he concurred clear sense to me to do it (have -at least sometimes," he said. with growning campus senti-kegs), but now it can't be 
On the eternal relationship of ment that the CLC be discon-done," Roche said. "But it the water to the ocean, Cage tinued or changed, Roche (kegs) is just one of many said that "the sea is full of strongly defended his previous concerns to me, and to say just water. Why we'll never know." position. because you can't get kegs you 
Cage closed his complex lee-"No, the CLC should re-quit, that's childish." 
1 

administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reponed as accurately and
-The Observer_ 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ........ Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ..................Mark Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managing EJitor.......... Diane Wilson Features Editor .....Kathleen Connelly &x Q Noire Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editoriaj Editor .............. Ann Gales Photo Editor .............. Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Edzlor ......... M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Etiitor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager ........Steve Odland newspaper published by the students ~ 'Jie to all members of the community, News Editor .................... Mark Rust Production Manager ..... ) ohn McGrath_ of the University of Notre Dame du lac • •,d the free expression of varying News Editor ................. Mike Shields Advertising Manager .... M. Holsinger and Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letrers,is SMC News Editor .. '·· ....Margie .Brassil Controller..................Kevin Manion. ~essarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. Circulation Ma11ager......Greg Hedges 
.. .......
_ 

• -~-­





The Observer Thursday, March 13, 1980 -page 8 
.­
I 
I ­

by Roberta Bottei 
Jeanne Carney, deputy di­rector of Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA) will speak about this one-year domestic volunteer service program Thursday, March 13, at 4:15 
p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
A native of Butler, Pa., and a graduate of the University of North Carolina with a de~ree in classical Greek, Carney IS also deputy director of the ACTION Education and Service Learning Pro~ram. She has held this position along with her VISTA duties since October 1979. As one of the founders of the National Center for Service Learning, sh.e helps to admini­ster approximately 5000 se­condary and post-secondary schools in the United States, working with students who participate in curriculum­related projects of service to their communities. 
Before joining ACTION and becoming involved in two of that organization's three branches, VISTA and Service Learning (the third group being the Peace Corps), Carney first served as a special assistant to

The ongoing construction promises new factlities, but in the 
the associate director of Job

meantime means slushy detours for students. [Photo by john 
Corps offices of the Office of
Macor]. 
Economic Opportunity in Was?ington, D,.C. She later received appomtment as a management intern to VISTA.


VISTA is a federally funded one-year volunteer program withm the United States. Sponsoring organizations invite volunteers into low income areas to help the community members help themselves. 
At present approximately 4000 AmeriCans at least 18

HEY JUNIORS!!! 
years of ag_e are involved in VISTA's efforts {o help com­munities to improve themselves lffiffiEDIATELY -------~ in many areas, including social organization and services, economic development, health and nutrition, legal rights, 
SIGN UP FOR YOUR 
housing and education. VISTA volunteers use their energies to assist low-income people in 

YEARBOOK PORTRAITS 
CALL35570RSTOP BY 
2C 
finding a place in American society where they can deter­mine their own destinies. 
Carney's visit will include a tour of the campus, a press conference with the local media, a private meeting with university president Fr. Theo­dore Hesburgh, and will culmi­nate with her talk in the Library Auditorium at 4:15p.m. 
Carney's day at Notre Dame, planned through the Placement Bureau, is the second in the series of visits on the Volunteer Services schedule, These speakers are being arranged in conjunction with the newly undertaken Alternative Career 
SMCoffers summer 
day camp 
The Early Childhood Devel­opment Center at Saint Mary's will once again offer a day cam.P program this summer. Th1s recreational program is design­ed for children of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community from ages three to five and six to nine. Both full-and part­time enrollment schedules are available. Anyone interested in registration information should call Terri Kosik at 284-4150 or 291-3875. 

ACE lectures continue 
VISTA deputy director to speak 
Explorations (ACE). those with a social action inter-
By providing lecturers on est, after having worked with experiences and possible the J?eople." · careers in volunteer services lmtiative for this project to plus the development of ACE, centrallyoffer to students infor­the central library of alternative marion, speakers, and referrals career information and referral came not from the organiza­located in room 222 of the dons looking for helo but the Administration building, the students themselves, Willemin, Placement Bureau is attempt-noted. Greatly increased stu­ing to "help students on the dent interest in volunteer ser­road of develoJ?ment, to gain a vices began' 'with pure involve­broad perspective on careers, to ment in VietNam, when stu­enhance their educational pro-dents decided that they wanted cess, and assist students in to use their energy to help our getting to the point where they people through peaceful can confidently make decisions means ... instead of exerting ef­on how they want to spend the fort in a war they felt was rest of their lives,'' according to immoral and unjust.'' Student bureau director Richard Wil-interest in alternative careers lemin. has continued to increase, and 
Wille min spoke enthusiastic-in ''facing up to this student ally about this combination need," the ACE library was speakers-ACE project, saying, recently established to help ''There are so many opportuni-pool university resources and ties for student placement in guidance information on alter­voluntary services, at any level native careers. of interest and for any length of Being organized by recent time. Notre Dame students are Notre Dame graduate Tim from such backgrounds, along. Beatv: ACE is presently . in with the things they see on operations and features ma1or campus as far as service to the volunteers service directones community and each other, that for groups working both in the they naturally think in terms of United States and abroad, peri­service to one another. There's odicals, books, descriptive in­just something about Notre formation fro{Il the organiza­Dame that brings out the good tions themselves, and by the in people ... and a high percent-end of the semester will include age of Notre Dame and Saint applications for all major volun­Mary's students go into volun-tary services or~anizations. tary service." Willemin believes that "the 
Working directly in a com-history of Notre Dame students munity is one important "out-is that they've always been let to serve mankind," but highly involved ... and exploring Willemin observed that work-alternative careers gives them a ing one's way up into manage-chance to serve others by doing ment positions 10 these volun-something other than what is tary service organizations ''can re~arded as the traditional 8 to be important opportunities for 5 Job." 
Alumnae Seminar examines post-graduation lifestyles 
by]ohn Kelly 
Various viewpoints about the working world were expressed by Notre Dame alumnae at the third annual Alumnae Seminar Saturday afternoon. The speakers discussed their pro­fessional and family lives after graduation. 
Sr. Miriam ] ones, Assistant Provost, said that the seminar was held so · chat ND women could find out what kind of career and family future they will have by askmg other wo­men who have already been through ND. 
Loretta Castaldi, '76 BBA Finance who is now a public accountant for Peat, Marwick & Mitchell told the meeting that "being a woman has been nothing but helpful" to her career. men will not argue with her as they would with another man, because that's the way ''mom taught them to treat women,'' Castaldi commented. 
She says that she has been able to use the double standard to her own advantage. 
Paula Smith, '77 BA socio­logy and the only married member of the panel is current­ly working as an administrator in a South Bend nursing home. She stated that her relative youth causes more problems than her sex. 
Smith, who is also a mother 
· did not give up her job with the birth of her child. This situa­tion, she said, forces her to cancel some social engage­ments so that she can spend time with her baby after work. 
This became especiallx.._neces­sary, she said when at 9'"""months the baby mistook the 
baby sitter for her mother. 
Ellen Syburg, BA'76, who is now the Associate Director of Admissions at Lake Forest Col­lege, complained that her ad­vancement is stifled because there is still the.. fear that a woman will get married pregnant and quit. ' 
Syburg, whose position re­quires extensive travel, main­tained that for a woman ''tra­velling is not all that fun." She described trips to lesser ­known cities where her unfamil­iarity with the area confined her to her hotel room. 
Mary Philbin, B.A. '76, a­greed that it is difficult for a woman to travel alone. Accord­ing to Philbin, when she is on the road she eats as soon as the restaurants open to avoid crowd because she is uncomfortable eating alone. 
Sculpture exhibit continues 
Harold Langland's one-man bronze sculpture exhibit, entitl­ed "Reflections" will continue in the Women's Art League, upper level gallery through March 30. 

The Observer Thursday, March 13, 1980 -page9 
... DuBois 
[continued from page 12] 
else the kitchen's gonna start to stink. 
Star center Dave Poulin went crashing to the ice late in that Minnesota game and did not return; the diagnosis: a severe charley horse. With a first round playoff series at Michigan less than a week away, and Poulin quite doubt­ful, Smith called on DuBois to fill Poulin's skates. After some line juggling, DuBois was placed at left wing on the number one front line with fellow seniors Greg Meredith at center and Tom Michalek at right wing. 
"If I said I wasn't nervous, I'd be lying, " said this young man who hadn't dressed for a hockey game in over 14 months, "But it wasn't as bad as you might think. I had a pretty good idea of what I'd by going up against. I played against eight or nine of the Michigan players before.'' 
[continued from page 12] 
·Shah, but we did receive a gift 
from him. It was a painted 
wooden plate with a picture of 
the Shah and his family and he 
had autographed it." 
"At the age of 16, I didn't 
really know who the Shah was, 
but wherever we went people 
chanted his name, almost like 
they worshipped him. For 
awhile I really thought he was 
some religious figure." 
"It's really hard to believe 
~ow much opinion has changed 
m five years. " 
And many of Iran's customs seemed strange to the teenage wrestler. 
With two periods gone in this two-game, total goals series, the Irish and the Wolverines were tied, 3-3. And then, as if the hockey world hadn't seen enough miracles in the last month, it happened. 
A three-on-two attack by Notre Dame ... John Schmidt feeds the puck to Meredith, slap shot from the point, kick save by Paul Fricker deflected into the slot and there he was. A quick reflex action by DuBois, and the puck slid past Fricker's left skate--Notre Dame 4, Michigan 3. 
Little did he know at the time exactly what he had triggered. There was bedlam on the Irish bench. Players jumped and hugged like never before this year. Even the team chaplain, Father Riehle, stood on the bench, jumping up and down like a cigar chomping 12-year old. 
''It was enough just playing," said DuBois,· "but to score a goal I almost thought it was a joke. I didn't realize the significance of it at the time. Sure it put us in the lead, but I never anticipated what followed. ' ' 
One guy on the bench did. Tom Etling, the team's man­ager, wandered over to DuBois 
''There were no traffic laws that any of us could figure out,'' recalls DiSabato with a labored smile. ''As we rode around the country in this 16-seat bus, we were trying to figure out the odds of having a wreck with people making U-turns and the 
like everywhere. Somehow we made it safely.". 
DiSabato couldn't under­stand how the Americans he did see could stand to live there. 
"Most of the Americans there worked in the oil industry. In fact, a couple we met offered some of us jobs. But everyone seemed depressed or sad or something. 
''The only women we saw 
Spo,rt~, Bri 

Volleyball team takes 2ndinstate 
and whispered in his ear, "You've sparked the team." DuBois had pulled the trigger on a rapid-fire machine gun that unleashed four more shots past the demoralized Fricker in the next ten minutes to give the Irish a commanding 8-3 lead going into Saturday night's decisive three periods. Notre Dame made that lead hold up, winning the series 11-7 to advance to tomorrow night's second round WCHA playoff game at North Dakota. 
DuBois refuses to let one goal change him. ''Heck, at Hillsdale (the school from which he transferred after it dropped hockey in 1978) I scored a lot of goals and nobody ever made such a fuss as they're making over this one. I'm just glad to be a part ofthis group, and I just want to do what I can, whenever I can." 
DuBois' road to Ann Arbor was a long and bumpy one. In his last game at Hillsdale he suffered a knee injury which nagged him for nine months until December of 1978 when the partially torn ligaments required surgery, ending his rookie year at Notre Dame three months early. 
Most athletes would not be 
... DiSabito 
were American, too, most often at the weekly Church service we had. No matter where we went in Iran, there were always men everywhere and no women. The very few Iranian women we caught a glimpse of always had a veil over their face and seemed frightened or shy." 
DiSabato still looks back fo_ndly on his experience, but with reservations. ''Those three weeks were worth a year's experience in high school, both culturally and ath­letically.'' 
"But given the opportunity, I doubt that I'd ever go back. Even before the current situa­tion arose, there was something out of balance which me skepti­cal. I'm thankful for the experience, but I'd just as soon stay right where I am." 
able to wait to get back on the ice, <but Matt DuBois was a little different. He had his priorities in the ril!ht order. He took the ~.first semester of this year off from hockey and worked on getting into dental school. 
With that out of the way, he returned in ] anuary to have fun and play hockey in practice, knowing that he would probably 
never get into a game, or so he thought. _ 
''It would have been so easy for a guy in Matt's position to get negative about hockey,'' said Smith, "but he has never been that way, Matt's an extremely well-liked part of the family. He works and works and never moans or groans. He has as much spirit and enthusiasm as anyone on the squad." 
With the University of ~etroit's dental school waiting .m the fall, DuBois has just one big thing left to do before he graduates. A national championship? Sure, but this is something more personal-­teaching people how to pro­nounce his last name. The right pronounciation is "DOO-boise," his teachers say "doo-BOY" and most of his teammates say "DOO-bis." Housemate (and now linemate) Greg Meredith has yet anothe; pronounciation. ''He thinks it should be French-"du-BWA." 
He says being from Detroit, I need all the help I can get.'' Maybe next time !Meredith has a shot from the point kicked 
away,  Matt  will  be  there  
offering  all  the help  he  can  
give.  

Notre Dame I St. Mary's Theatre presents 
''XINGU'' 
& ''ROMANFEVER'' 
(two plays in Reader's Theatre) March 14th Moreau Hall rm. 232 
Spm 

March 15th Moreau Hall rm 144 
1Corby's · . 
. -----.--__I 
-: I 

I 
I I ·----·----_ _~. ___::.:r_l 
! 

...,.._......,.,.,,__::.~ ------..........---­
Admission Free 
Thursday, March 13,1980 7pmto 3am 

STARI WITH ACOMPANY 
THAT IS GROWING 
AS FASTASYOUARE 

Proyressive Companies is a family of specialized insurance companies which provide insurance coverage for owners of recreational vehicleS, personal Bl,ltomobiles. and commercial transports. Our friends who are erecting this bar chartcouldn't think of a simpler way to tell you: We're growing rapidly and we intend to follow this pace in the future. 
We've succeeded because we have been highly innovative in a 
stodgy industry. We are young-our President is in his forties. and the median age of our senior managers is in the thirties. We are resourceful-we have discovered highly profitable ways to service markets others have ignored. We are demanding-we ask a lot from our people becaus~ the growth we're planning takes considerable effort, intelligence and dedication. 
We can't use career paths or promotion timetables. Advancement is based solely on achievement. not seniority or politics. That's the way we have grown, and that's the way we'll continue to grow. Rapid inCreases in responsibility mean rapid increases in compensation. This won't impress you until you discover that our starting salaries are even higher than those of many Fortune 500 corporations. 
On March 19. we will tell you more about ourselves and 
available positions in a presentation at 7:00 p.m. in the 
Shamrock Room of the Morris Inn. 
All individuals interested in performing in the following 
capacities should make a point of attending. 
PRODUCT MANAGER FINANCIAL ANALYST 
MANAGEMENT TRAINEE 
March 20th is PROGRESSIVE'S DAY on campus. At this time we would like to discuss with you the significant opportunities available to qualified individuals. Contact the Placement Office to ensure you are on our schedule. 
• 
·progre07/e . 
compan1e.r 
We are an equal opportuntty employer M I F. 
_._-..,,..,,.............~.IIi-------. 


O'Hanlon's Notre Dame Men's Volley ball Team finished second in the Indiana State Championships held this past weekend at Ball State University. Notre Dame defeated teams from Earlham College, Indiana-Purdue at Fort Wayne and Purdue before falling to highly ranked Ball State in the finals. Ball State was one of last year's NCAA fmal four and is currently ranked eighth in the nation. This weekend the first-place Irish return to league play at Ball State, where an eight-team field will compete. The next home match for]ohn O'Hanlon's squad is an exhibition game to be played at Angela Athleuc Facility against Drake Tuesday night. The match will be the best three out of five games and will begin at 8 p.m. 
-..... --;··· -...... .., ........... . 
The Observer Thursday, March 13, 1980 -page 10 
Molarity by Michael Molinelli Inter hall 





Doonesbury by Garry Trudeau 
a/5/.l, 51/'-JCE
I THINK 7H£ 8{X)K 
a/HAT f)() 
/?JCX./5 A

IA/H51?£'() (Ji, H£ /A£NT
C4tl.-5 FOR. A 5MALL. 
'I()} MffAN, 
/IJM/3R, 700,

ceL£8RAT/oN, CHAMF¥6NE? 
ZEJ<& GO? UPSTAIRS7D 
8R£AI< 
zm's WOR·

BR&4KTH£.
1txJN'T )(XI, aM? 65&, THAT'S 
7H8 Nf!IAIS?
I



INTERHALL TRACK 
Team standings: 
Keenan 12 Stanford 4 
Zahm 9 Morrissey 3 
Flanner 6 Howard 1 
60-yard low hurdlas-1. Arden Dohman, Dillon, 7.34. 2. Mark Franko, Stanford, 
7.50. 3. Tom Hofman, Dillon, 7.66. 
60-yard dash-1. Dave Divis, Keenan, 6.77. 2. Joe Wltchger, Dillon, 6.78. 3. Mark Franko, Stanford, 6.83. 
440-yard dash-1. John Lauer, Dillon, 
54.4. 2. Bill Hochul, Zahm, 55.12. 3. John 
Goetz, Keenan, 57.57. 880-yard run-1. Bill Dwyer, Flanner, 
2:03.9. 2. Thomas Kellenberg, Zahm, 
2:09.52. 3. Ron Paquette, Howard, 2:09.76. 
Mila run-1. Dan Sullivan, Holy Cross, 4:39. 2. Ted Gutman, Keenan, 4:43. 3. Shane Little, Holy Cross, 4:54. 
4-lap ralay-1. Dillon (Dana Crowley, Mark Nasca, Joe Wltchger, Ralph Solar­ski), 1:21.95. 2. Dillon, 1:22.36. 
8-lap ralay-1. Dillon (Paul Fahrenbach, Mike Burke, Quinn Stepan, John Mer­lock), 2:58.2. 
lock), 2:58.2. 2. Keenan, 3:05.7. 
Long jump-1. Jerry lgoe, Dillon, 19', 3W'. 2. Matt Crooks, Morrissey, 18'9 3/8". 3. Dan Miller, Dillon, 18'8 3/4". 
High jump-R. Westbrook, Dillon, 6'. 2. 
D. Dahlstrom, Zahm, 5'10". 3. R. Wack, Flanner, 5'10". 
Final Regular Season lnterhall Hockey Standings 
NORTH 
w  L  T  
Grace Stanford Flanner Keenan Zahm Off-Campus Cavanaugh  5 4 4 2 1 1 1  0 1 2 3 3 4 5  1 1 0 1 2 1 0  
SOUTH  
Alumni  6  0  1  
Dillon  5  o  2  
Pangborn Morrissey  4 3  2 3  o 1 ,  
Sorin  2  5  0  
Fisher  1  5  
Howard/St. Ed's 0  7  0  

Tonight's Playoffs 
9:00 p.m. Stanford vs. Alumni 
10:15 p.m. Dillon vs. Grace Championship Game 
Sunday, March 16 1:30 p.m. 
Co-Ree Racquetball Doubles Final 
Goyette (1183) & Bialek (8050) v. Onufer (1109) & Dawson (1295) 
Women's Open Racquetball 
Bankiotts (233-1177) v. Bye 
Chopko (8050) v. Gorski (1257) 
Meyers (1263) v. Segal (1448) 
Verhalen (287-0422) v. McGuire 
(234-6298) 
Men's Racquetball Doubles Saml:t!Dals 
Onufer (1109) & Hatfield (2255) v. Slat! (1725) & Philbin (1652) Adams (1183) & Goyette (1183) v. Brown (277-0671) & Gallagher 
Men's Open Racquetball 
Brown (277-o671) v. Jenlsta 3265) 
Phillips (1628) v. Slat! (1725) 
Coughlin (3223) v. Lynch (1185) 
Rose (7583) v. Esrig (3235) 
Philbin (1652) v. Young (1670) 
Reagan (8375) v. Labinger 
Siefert (232-6052) v. Mysliwiec (8624) 
Mulligan (3285) v. Bell (1575) 
Phillips (1437) v. Trozzolo (3326) 
Raunhorst (6824) v. Shockley (1437) 
Onufer (1109) v. Disser (277-3845) 
Lemon (1578) v. Alexander (6774) 
Riche (3053) v. Hines (3235) 
Johnston (8630) v. Finn (234-0467) 
Gallagher (232-7415) v. Derick (1422) Participants receiving Byes In the first round of play are: 
Pierce Fillingham 
Jackson Butler Fisher Allston Shank Strieblch Arvin Pedace Schaefer O'Toole 
Corey Hatfield Payne Thomassen Gandhi 
Basketball 
NOTRE DAME (57)--Hicks 1 0-0 2, Polltiski 3 0-1 6, Matvey 12 6-8 30, Cashman 1 2-2 4, Lally 00-2 0, Liebscher 4 3-411, McManus 11-2 3, Conboy 0 0-0 0, Antolik 0 0-1 0, Jergesen 01-21, O'Brien 0 0-1 0. Totals--22 13-23 57. 
PACIFIC LUTHERAN (48)--Shelton 3 5-7 11, Krebs 2 0-0 4, Krumm 1 0-0 2, Betts 10 1-2 21, Bishop 1 2-4 4, Ellerston 1 0-0 2, Sammons 1 0-2 2, Stakkestad 1 0-0 2, Rasmussen 0 0-0. Totals--20 8-15 48. 
Halftime score--Pacific Lutheran 21, notre Dame 16. Total fouls--Notre Dame 
17, Pacific 23. Fouled out--none. 

T_h~ Observer 
Thursday, March ~3, l980:~agt11 
e fe d All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. • two d!ffS prior 
to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept 
~-classifieds must be pre-paid, either In person or through the mall.
Cl S
.~~a~s~~~~·~~~~===r.:==~~~classiti~edsMon:;;=daythr~oughFr~iday,1o~:ooa.m~.to5;oo~p.m.All 
Got a blank space on your waii?FIII it with color basketball action photos. All
Notices 
palyers, all sizes. Cheap. Not available
from Ronco or K·Tel. Call 8932. 
-----------T--1--S-t k
TYPING PLUS. Term papers, theses, !SALE 1973 Ford Gran or no por · 
· 1 t d ellow

dissertations. Light editing, ghost Red with blac Vlny op an ~ writing. Literary search, bibli~graphls, laser stripe. Excellent condition.
50 000 miles. One-owner. $1200. Callgenealogies. Job resume serv1ce. Slid­
(31,7) 844.2115. (indianapolis)
Ing rate scale based on lead time. Special discounts on full contracts for ---------------­
Sony PS-1100 Direct-Drive semi-autothese and dissertations. aardvard aut­turntable. Greg 1826.
omatic solutions/p.o. box 1204 46624/ phone (219) 289-6753. 
--------------Wanted
Last chance-NJ club bus has spaces left! Call Chris at 1178 and Kevin at 
Need Spring Break riders to uauas1166 tor reservations. 
area. 272-7930. Morrissey Loan Fund N 0 student loans $20-$200. Due In one month. ~~~!d~;"N~;k.NJto~~~g
Break. Will share driving and expen­One percent interest. Basement of 
ses. Call Cori-287-0289.
LaFortune. 11:30-12:30 M-F. Last day tor May grads to apply Is March 
Rj;-;;-;ded t;Buffalo-;r;;t;;;;k· 
14. 
Call Chris 3136. Will do typing. Call 287-5162. Neat. 
Ne;d-;ride to-~~hFiorida~WIII
Accurate.· 
share the usual. Call Bobby 1049. Morrissey Loan Fund. Last day for 
Ne;d-;;t;-t:;;;d;~i;"t"h;26th.
undergrads to apply Is March 27. 
Share expenses. Jackie 1362. Anyone Interested In cooking classes 
Ne;d~Wet;;;df";;c;;;;;;;ch
phone "Patsy's Pantry" 272-5640. 
17. 4262. 
;;d;jd;t;-o;;;;;;;-s-;;;&r;.k. 
Will Share the usual. Call Bob at 1682.
For Rent 
De-;;;;;t;y--;;eed ;;d;i;Pt;iiad"eij;hia-Large 7 bedroom, furnished house, Will share drivjng and expenses. Call 
available for rant starting fall classes. Jim 1729, Greg 1757. Excellent area close to campus. Some rooms available now. 289-6813 or Ne;d-rid;;-;:;,~;FI;fo~~;lng
289-5023. Break. Will share driving and expen­----------ses. Please call Christian 272-7987.
Ne-;d-;;;a-;;; [preferably) to share comfortable furnished 2 bedroom. ap­N"e;d~id;W""Nvc(M";;h;tt;;;~jt:;;v­artment on NO Ava. Including utilities ing Fri. Mar. 28. Call Cindy or Sue $62.50 summer; $125, school year. (4540-SMC)Evenings 233-9122. 
~;d;I;!;u~;.Nv(betw~n
Syracuse and Albany) for break. Call Greg 1756.
Lost&Found 
Riders need to Ft. Lauderdal. Leaving
Lost: Tl 30 calculator. Probably at the Buffalo3/29, returning to NO 4/7. Call Engineering Auditorium on Monday Mike 8783 or Ron 8482. 10th. Any information please call Luis, 1746. Ne;d-rid;i;;--;:~;;;;-;-~;nl;tor 
Spring Break, will share dnvmg and 
Found: silver watch. Call and identify expenses. Call Laura after 11:30 p.m.8320 Matt. 
at 277-5261. 
Found: small brown and white dog, N"e;d~ide't~[ic;;;~a;-s~~;s;:;k.Saturday, outside of Dillon Hall. Call 
John 8859.
6868 tor information. 
Ne;d~Wet;NJ"(M~~;utt;~;;~;er
Lost: set of 5 keys, sometime on Fri. break. Will share driving and $. Call possibly at Stephan Center. Two room 
Lacy at 4527 (SMC)
keys and a PO box key. If found please turn Into The Observer office. N"e;d-rid;w"NJ."PhitiY-;;~;Yc~or Spring Break. Call Pat 8913. ·.....
Found: A girl's Notre Dame class ring. Round in Library Auditorium. Call H"ejp-;;;t-;;;;t";;t.-Gi;;-;-W--;st4262 to identify. Coaster a ride to NYC or Conn. for ~~~~~--------break. Can leave Wed. p.m. call Jay
Lost: small square ladies watch with 2 
8894.
diamonds on each side, Feb. 23 at Sacred Hear concert. Reward. Call Ne;d-;~d;t;Tali;t;;;;F~forSharon 6258. 
Spring Break. Willing t~ .pay extra cash if out of way. Call K1k1, 8846. 
Lost: good leather gloves at Main Circle bus station. Call Don at 1756. Ne;d-rld;-~~;;;t;"ai'Pa~fo;-br;;k. Anyone passing thru via Pa. Turn P!ke 
Lost: gold and diamond pendant from please help. Expanses and drlvmgnecklace. Reward. Call Maureen 4634. 
shared. Jim 1688. 
Lost: turquoise ring with a silver band. 1 need ride, Connecticut-NYC area. Call Anne 1274. 
For break. Joe 1048. 
Lost: Mikasa basketball in Rock. Call uicAi-B'A"No'NE"EosrusssE"c-
TioN: TRUMPET TROMBONE ALTO TENOR SAX. Pleue Contact MICHAEL COLEMAN IN THE SOUTH DINING HALL OR CALL AT 
3459. 
289-1005 after 8 p.m.
For Sale 
St~;;;~~~;~;;~~~;;;a
DOME greenhouse, 16 ft. diameter, well-organized, efficient secretary. to$200. Price includes help with constru­work 1-5 dally for 1980·81 yr. Dut1esction. Call 7213 days, 232-0634 eve. 
Include processing orders and the
----------------
setup/layout of posters. Begin training
Yamaha model FG-160 acoustic guitar now. Apply 1-5 In person, basement offor sale. Good condition. Call Jeff Lafortune. Any questions call 7074 or3467. 
Diane at 7994. 
Goltar amplifier~Sunn Beta lead 100 
Ne-;d-rld;to-and from Miami for watts. 2 channels, footswitch $650 was Spring Break. Will share$. Please call
$810. 234-4305. Noon-6 p.m. 
233·2201 after 11 p.m.
----------------.
1980 Citation full loaded. 2-tone silver ---------------­
WANTED: 1 need to borrow some: 
gray. $2000.00 iff kust, 
one's van/pickup for one weekend (Fn1976 Chevy-pickup 3/4 tone camper to Sun.) anytime between now andspecial. Power brakes,steering and 
April 7. Urgent. So~e. reco.mpense
A/C 4x4. $3400. 
possible to kindly Chnst1an Willing. to55 on Diamond Lake Channel. almost help me out. Call 232·6344 for details,1/2 an acre. $7000.00 
between 12 and 9 p.m. Leave nameAnytime 616-699-7027. 
and number. 
FLASH: Photographic equipment for j"';;;d;-rid;ho";;t";th;Miai;;;~;"Ft.
sale --fantastice bargains! !··cameras, 
Lauderdale area over Spring Break.
lenses. Call 232-4129. 
Willing to share driving and expenses.
----------------
Call Frank at 1975.
For Sale: Kenny Rogers tix. One together. Row 18. Call Steve 733 days. 
·Ne;d~Wet;;;;-;,-;;Rich"~~~Va:for
----------------
break. Will share usual. Call Steve
FOR SALE: 1975 Mercury Cougar 
3047.
XR-7 loaded, beautiful condition. $1990. After 5 p.m. Call Buchanan 
;;d;;d;toc;n-;;-.-:t;t,-;;;;~witt
616-695-5533. 
~hare usual. Call Jim 1175. 
p · 
ersonalS 
Michel, Felicitations! on attend le Journal d.~
Ton ete, "An American In Rauen. Grosses Bises B-Starr 
Ceil, d"d 't . t t e 
1 sincerely hope I I n JUS YP
anything dirty in French. You'd better 
sensor these things!! 
_ 

f"Rio"Av-NIGHrA"T-rtiE-NAzz: BARRY STEVENS 10·10:30 and RICK WALTERS 10':30-? 
wh.!;t"~lr~hw;;;;h~h 
Wedding have m common? Free­wheelln'l! Their debut album 115.50) now In at the Student Unlor Record Store [2nd floor Lafortune) 
Hey Queen, . Happy 5,th, 6th, 7th ... 
M.M. Turn me on Dead Man The Sun King 
ATTENTION #CGrace: 
2-0 grace ha srepeatedly challenge~ you to a game of hoops. Why won t you accept. 
sue Kunkel, . You fox you!! Happy belated birth­day. M 
Love, Mary "the Monster from on­ster. -<h-;;-;;;-------Hopi-;;-9, Par saber, tienes que preguntame. 
;;;;;;;nnnnnnnnn?
0.. . . . . . . . . . . . • 
SENIORS­BEFORE YOU START CELEBRAT· lNG ST. PATRICK'S DAY, BEGIN YOU DAY RIGHT-CLASS MASS. MONDAY MORNING 8 o'clock at the GROTTO. 
GREENBEERCLUBREUNtON~Call 
PRESIDENT PATSY FOR DETAILS. 415710. 
s;;;s!B"rl;;g-~;phoWQr;;;;,d
artwork to Boxing room (fieldhouse) now!! For Senior Arts Festival. Dead­line 3/17. Questions-call Beth Schweit­zer 6785 or Bruce Richardson 1354. 
'~--------------­
Dave, . . t 
Congratulations on commg 1n 11rs . Love, Lisa 
nis"islo7.fi~;;df';e-;;;;;~;;y­
one on Zoo-2 that gave me the best birthday that 1ever had in my life. The party and your friendship are the most precious gifts that anyone could ever ask for. Thanks also to Robin and Jan tor the wine, Patty for the m.ug and the plague (it says it all), J1ll for the Teddy and Annie-my big sis-for the flowers. Many thanks to all the men (men, Bill-not boys) of 1st floor Alumni, and Jim, Mark, Marty •. Bur­ley, John, and Renner of Mornssey. You're all very special to me. Jeanne, Leslie, and everyone else. that got headaches trying to plan th1s sur~rlse tor me-l love vou all. Thanks agam to everyone-you can't know how much it meant to me. The world just wasn't meant tor people as beautiful as you. All my love, Patty (Lynch-face) 
-~-------------­
Dear Jim and TJ, I love you guys even if you didn't ask me out-Beth 
FREEWHEEUN-:-THEiRDEBUTAL· BUM NOW AVAILABLE-SURECORD STORE 
Ne;d-;;d;~(:;n-;;-ect;;lo;:-b;;k. 
Please call Drew 1224. 
j;;hr;$-;;igt;j;;"di;Q~ti~th;~~he
likes the dining hall food!! SIGH lo UMOC. 
Marketing Clubbers: Vote Haggerty McEntee Rackish Tarullo on March 19. 
Ceil our beloved secretary: Have a nice day and don't let those turkeys get you down. Thursday Features 
s~n315-;iil;i;b7ate"th;i;a7t~ithe 
GREEN BREW March 17 and John B's smashing victory in Illinois on March 18. 
Dear Carroll Hall-Thanks for your overwhel.ming sup­port! Pfister comes thru agam· Bl'z 
Madeline, Tex. Bart and Rev. 
th r~A~PY 19th, Ma;sh Love, 
bTo the guy I met who claims to be my 
Katl 

F t H E 
To my Favorite u re oover xec­
· 

' tlvGe: h.· n't wa1·t for this weekend 
ee-s IZ·ca 
it'll be tun!!! Good luck on calculus!! 
Your Futre Perry Mason 
Mike Day, Rob, Mike Hickey, Andy, Mike Pat and rest of Mardi Gras men. Thanks tor making my 20th B·day
special. · love, Teresa Ps. The bear burns Saturday 
Seventh Floor Flanner-THANKS FOR THE PARTY, IT WAS LOADS OF FUN. 
Third McCandless 
To all interested boxer-wearers, Usa's phone is really 41-5437. 
Thorn Cullum, 
Happy Birthday one day late!!! I think this calls for a celebration at Pizza Hut. How 'bout It? 
Julie Joyce, 1 love you dearly, but could never marry a hot-shot Senate staffworker. Congrats anyway. 
TJ 

Harriet, 1 hear they're serving sexist ch~s for lunch today. Do we have a date. Ozzie 
----~---------­
HEY GALS Call and wish john marshall a happy 20th birthday at 8739. 
Happy Birthday John Marshall! your Four Farley Foxes 
Happy Birthday to the cutest soccer player there is-Steve Burgoon. What a charmer you are 
Later... Guess who 
wow presents the first woman orda· lned Episcopal priest, Jaquellne means, 8 p.m. Carroll Hall, SMC 
All My Children happy hour tomorrow. 
Call 8632. 
Father, 

1've met the most wonderful person I'd love you to meet. Her name is Monique. 
Nina 

Regina Girls, . Are you trying to prove that mce guys finish last? 
Joni, Thanks and Love­Always, Teresa 
J;;;ti-Gio~;~A;;,-I<-;ii;~5u-;ie, 
Marybeth, Janina, Vicki, Martha, 
• Joanie, Marta, Rithous 
You all are great, thanks much Teresa 
rrish-=th;~ishn;e'd;t;;;;~-~;;-to 
call. 

ra8~~7a~;~-;;;,M;~~~;,d 
Tippy-. 
• My mother warned me about b1g, fat­"O's" like you! But thanks lor letting me know 1have plenty of shoulders to <cry on and S. F.) 
Love, Kris 

To the meanest, cruelest girl I know-Sorry 1 didn't get 2 (or even 5) Thanks for going. I love ya. 
The Weird Loser 
N;i-;~;~N;ii~P~trtt;.(j1i;i;;; is now available for dates. After shun­ning this frivilous activity for so long-1 am ready-are you waiting? Call me at 1957. Another listing of the \Ryan Ver Berkmoes desperado dating service. 
H";;;;-llit"st;v;B;r;;n!i-Nice Pants!! 
wHo~rHE'sPARK~~?nroo 
YOU KNOW IGNITION? · 
Pr;;p;;~~~~;;H~~~. 
March. 14th at Goose's Nest. 1keg of Michelob to be raffled off courtesy of NO Lacrosse Club. 
Anne Rice-
since you beat Mary in a race, does taht mean that you go out with a lawyer, too?$ 
Coach 

-Bernie-. Remember-right foot, 1et• toot, nght toot, left foot. .. (good job) The grumpy coach 
KULP KULP KULP KULP KULP Barb-are the feathers still on your nose?
Coach ---------I Sheryl
Howdo you spell relief? SE-C-o-N-0 
A c E w d'd It?
P·L--• . e colach. 
! 

Maureen-What did you really do at the Howard\ Formal? The Slave Driver 
Ignore this personal but don't ignore the keenan Revue. Tickets Available at Washington & O'Laughlin Halls Wed. and Thurs. 
PUNK ROCK HAPPY HOUR at Brid· gets, Fri. March 14 4-8 p.m. PUNK OUTI!I 3 Buds for $1. 
PHILA CLU~ BUS leaving 5 pm.m Thurs. March 27-to sign up call Bea (161 B) or maria (3803). 
A"suMM'E'Ro'PP(iRru'NirvcoM-MoN VENTURE. Lay woman team up with Franciscans and sisters of other communities In prayer, community and service. There will be a meeting march 13 at 10 p.m. In the Lewis Recreation Room for those interested. 
ELECT MR. BILL TO UMOC OR ELSE! SLUG GO 
Off-campus Mass Sun. Mar. 16 4:30 LaFortune Ballroom. Light supper served after. 
Seniors!! SaveS$$ Buy raffle tix for 1 free Senior Formal bid...Lafortuen . M-F, 12-1; LeMans S-Th, 7-9. Drawing at Senior Bar Mar. 20, 11 p.m. Be There!! 
Need ride for 3to Wash. DC for Spring Break. Please call janet at 2110. 
----------------.
Celebrate St. Pat's early: Corby's Street Kids Softball Smoker Sat. Mar. 15th 8 p.m 1121 W. Western Free Beer, food and qames. Live Rock by "The Pages · $3. admission. Tix at Corby's or door. 
Like to party but can't affort It on a student budget? Bridgets serves up $.25 drats from 9:30-10:30 nitely. Bring a crowd. 
Bridgets thinks you need a break! Happy Hour from 4-7 dally. Quarter: beers 9:30-10:30 nitely. Now that's a deal. 
cii'Me_To_WOMEN7S-O'P'Po RTU· NITY WEEK MARCH 9·14 SMC 
SOFTBALL Anyone interested in coaching the N 0 oomen's softball team (fast pitch), please call Karen at 1258 or 2163. 
Denise Mike Michlewicz: Thanks for the accordion serenade Thurs. night. 438 must be my lucky number. !hanks to the rest to the gang for makmg the. day special. 
Love, Doris 

To the Beast, 
My family thanks you for introduc· ing my brother to all who ere present to partake in the festivities. 
His Sister 

Mark Thuney for N M OC (nasty man on campus). 
Yes NO men, Robin Yaeckel did venture out to Vegetable Buddies on Monday. Sorry you missed it. 
Due to the overwhelming response to Tom Sheridan's ad in last week's paper, Joe Philbin and Marshall Matt have decided to help him out and join our staff of N D G iggolos, help these guys get where they're going for break! 
Kevin Finn, , Buy that ladder yet? 
Jerry, t'
Breakfast. My place. Any 1me. 
Fallon, Beth, Ann, Gaily. Sandy & Betty, h 
GT's Monday tor sure! See ya on t e tracks. 
Mol 

Where did Dan Oondanville learn to 1 play such a mean game of back-· gammon? 
Patti, Happy Thursday. ILY MB M.H. 
Cush: Play Hoops TODAY! 


Thursday, March 13, 1980 -page 12
SRorts 

DiSabito recalls Iranian experience 
by Bill Marquard Sports Wn"ter 

With political turmoil still brewing m Iran, many Ameri­cans are both concerned and confused by the violent turn of events in that Middle Eastern nation. And there are few Americans who have visited Iran in recent years and thus bave a firsthand impression of the Moslem state. 
One of those few is Notre Dame wrestling tri-captain, Dave DiSabato. 
During the summer of 1975, DiSabato toured Iran for three weeks as a member of Ohio's freestyle wrestling team, parti­cipating in a cultural exchange program. 
'"It was a very hectic three weeks, said DiSabato, who will be making his third straight trip to the NCAA Wrestling Cham­pionships in Corballis, Oregon this weekend. "We would travel and sightsee for one day and then wrestle the.nest. We visited Tehran and Tabriz and 
most of the major Iranian 
provinces.'' 

The youngest wrestler Di­
Sabato faced during his stay 
was 21 years old, while the 
eldest was 28. Despite the age 
difference, the then 16-year-old 
high school senior placed se­
venth out of 21 people in Iran's 
junior Nationals. 

"Wrestling in Iran is like foot­ball in Amenca,'' explains the talented senior. "People get reallyworked up about the sport and we seldom wrestled before 
less than a capacity crowd.'' 
''Everyone there seemed 
very full of energy and very 
busy,'' recalls DiSabato, a four 
year starcer for the Irish. ''The 
marketplaces were always 
crowded. You never knew what 
to expect from the people. 
They always wanted to take us 
somewhere, no matter how 
tired we were. The were just 
crazy." 

And the 134-pound freestyler 
recalls that the people were at 
their peak during the wrestling 
matches. "The Iranians really 
got worked up about wrestling. 
DuBois ignites ND 'family ' with inspired play at Michigan 
by Michael Ortman Sports W n"ter 

fhe final home hockey series of the year at Notre Dame is traditionally parents' weekend. Two weeks ago rhe Minnesota team waited patiently as the Irish went through their lenghty pregame' ceremonies, intro­ductng each set of parents and their son, one-by-one. Afrer the parents filed off, it was time for the sellout crowd to honor the graduating seniors for the final time. 
''Greg Meredith ,'' bellowed the public address announcer. A warm cheer from the 
crowd. 
"Tom Michalek." 
More cheers. 
"Ted Weltzin." 
More Cheers. 
"] ohn Friedmann." 
More cheers. 
"Matt DuBois." 
Who? 

The jersey he wore, number 18, had no name on rhe back. As the radio announcers scrambled through their notes to find out who in the heck this guy was, he quietly skated off and changed back into some­thing more comfortable to watch the game from the stands. 
Before long, people had figured out that coa~h Le~ty Smith had allowed this semor walk•on to dress for warmups and the senior introductions but that he would not be playing. 
Some people might refer to a player ltke Ma~t DuBois as. a scrub, a throw m or. a pracuce dummy. To the Insh hockey players and coaches, he's just another part of the family. And as in most families, whenever someone gets sick and can't do their chores, somebody else has to take out the garbage or 
[continued on page 9] 
They were very vocal and very rowdy in the stands. If you make a move they don't like you're sure to k~ww about it." 
Despite being so far away from his native Columbus, Ohio 
DiSabato, who is the win­ningest wrestler in Notre Dame history with 104 career victo­ries, was surprised how Ame­ricanized Iran seemed. 
"The city of Tehran was very beautiful with lots of monu­ments and expensive displays. It had newer buildings and many distinctly American fea­tures. 
And what about the Shah? 
"We never got to meet the 
[continued on page 9] 

Matvey keys Notre Dame in second half comeback 
by Craig Chval Sports Wn"ter 
TACOMA, WAsh.-The Notre Dame women's basketball team was hit by a case of overconfi­dence befitting the New York Yankees last night. But the Irish overcame both themselves and a 21-16 halftime deficit to defeat Pacific Luthern Universi­ty, ) 7-48, in the first round of the AlA W Division III national tournament. 
Freshman center Shari Mat­vey led the Irish offense, scor­ing 25 of her game-high 30 pornts in the second half. The Notre Dame comeback was also fueled by a pair of guards, senior Molly Cashman and junior Sheila Liebscher. 
After a shaky first half, Cash­man took charge after the intermission, scoring one bas­ket and assisting Matvey on four others in the first five minutes of the second half. Liebscher, a 5-8 reserve, hit all four shots from the field and 
three  of four  free  throws  to  
finish  with  a  career-high  11  
points.  

Co-captain Cashman admitted the Irish played poorly in the first half, but denied that the squad was overconfident. 
"We were embarassed in the first half," said Cashman, who scored all four of her points in the second stanza. ''They play­ed a very ag~ressive defense, but we just dtdn't get into our game.'' 
''It was just a matter of playing our game," said Notre Dame coach Sharon Petro, who watched her Irish reach the 20-victory plateau for the first time in thetr three-year history. "We shot poorly in the first half, we didn't rebound, and we committed far too many turno­
vers. I think the girls realized at 
halftime that they didn't want 
to end their season with that 
kind of performance. 
''Molly really got us going in the second half. Maybe it was because she was a senior,. and this could have been her last game. But she seemed to be the spark that snapped us out of it." 
''The whole key to the second half was the first five minutes,'' said Liebscher. "We got the momentum back and kept up our intensity for the whole half.'' 
Liebscher had a special incen­tive to play well against the Lutes, since Notre Dame's vic­tory means a trip to Lacrosse, Wisconsin. The Irish will take on the sixth-ranked Roonies Saturday night, just a stone throw away from her Daven­port, Iowa, home. 
"I really wanted to play well tonight because I wanted to play that game in Lacrosse,'' Liebscher said. • • All my rela­tives and a lot of my friends will be there Saturday night, and I'm really looking forward to playing before them. 
''As far as turning it around in the second half tonight, it wasn't a lot of screaming by coach Perro or anyrhint:" like that, but it was the reahzation of all the players that we were in the nationals. We hadn't played well, but we realized we weren't in over our heads." 
If the Irish can upset the Roonies, who won last week­end's Midwest Regional, where Notre Dame finished fourth, Petro's squad will return home Tuesday night. A victory at the ACC would send the Irish to AlAW Division III final four, at Whitworth College in Spokane, Washington, March 21-22. 

Irish icers battle tnore adversity 
On paper-or, looking at the situation with an objective' eye -things do not look good for the Notre Dame hockey team this weekend in its second round playoff series against North Dakota. 
First, there are the injuries. Sophomore center Dave Poulin will be sidelined for the second week in a row with a thigh injury, and defenseman ] ohn Friedmann will sit out with a partially seperated shoulder. 
Next, there is the opponent: North Dakota. The Fighting Sioux, the number one team in the nation and Western Collegiate Hockey Associa­tion champions rwo years running, the runners up in the NCAA tournament last year, a team which has lost only eight gamr:s this year. 
To add to it all, the series will be held at the Nodak's Winter Sports Center, a place where the Sioux have enjoyed tremendous sucess over the last rwo years. 
It all spells a lot of adversity for coach Lefty Smith and his crew. But for reasons no one can quite fi~ure out, Notre Dame seems to be a team which thrives under adversity. For proof, just ask any member of the Michigan Wolver­ines, Notre Dame's victim last week in the first round of the playoffs. 
The injuries were there last week also,· but skating with four lines did not stop the Irish. It is a team which has been unified this season by adversity: the countless injuries, the moratorium and all the questions surrounding the program's status. 
I would like to think we are a group of competitors which can rise to meet a tough challenge," said Smith. "We play well when the pressure is on, and maybe that's the reason we play better on the road than at home.'' 
It's as good an explanation as any. The Irish sport a 12-8-1 record on the road, 8-)-1 against WCHA teams. None of the other rinks around the leagl!e are easy place to p1<ty in, yet the 
Brian Beglane 

Athletic and Convocation Center seems to be the 
toughest arena for Notre Dame. Its record this 
season at the ACC is 6-10. 
So maybe that's why no one minded when the 
Irish failed to capture home ice for the playoffs, 
or the fact they are away again this week. 
''This series with North Dakota will be even 
tougher than if we were playing them in the 
NCAA tournament," Smith said. "They are the 
No. I team in the country and we are playing 
them in their own backyard. That's quite a task. 
"We will have to be a disciplined club this weekend because it should be a physical series. We played them well last series even though we lost both games. Now, however, is the time to meet the challenge that is before us." 
In other words, win. After this weekend, rwo teams will remain from the WCHA and one from the Central Colle~iate Hockey Association. Two of those clubs will advance to the NCAA Final Four in Providence, R.I., March 27-29 as the western representative. Two teams from the Eastern Collegiate Athletic Conference will advance when their playoffs conclude next week. 
So anything can happen this weekend. Sure on. paper, things do not I.ook good. But the grea; thmg about any sport ts that the game is not played on paper. Notre Dame has froven the statistics wrong more than its share o times this 
season. 
Don't forget, another hockey team faced a lot more adversity a couple of weeks ago--those college players skated away from Lake Placid with a gold medal. 



