.Bleachers -page 13
' ' 
--------------------~------------------------­


by Mike o 'Brien committed to getting involved 
Staff Reporter in off-campus housing. There are no two ways about it." 
Student Body president Paul Riehle revealed that he has Riehle has announced ~laos on high hopes of obtaining some the pan of his administration kind of aid from federal and to affect the formation of a local government as well as o'f£-c~m~us student housing businesses to finance the pro­d1stnct m the northeast neigh­ject. However, as a last resort, borhood adjacent to the Uni­he said he would consider versity. using funds from the student 
-Riehle, in an exclusive inter-treasury to do it. Riehle 
view yesterday with The emphasized, "I can't see us Observer, said that the student buying the whole neighbor­government is "doing ground­hood. I see us getting help." work'' and researchin~ the When asked if University possibilities of purchasmg a administration officials could house in the area which he veto any use of student funds 
hopes will lead to development for the house purchase, Riehle of the district. A cabinet stated "It's our money. We meeting Monday will put forth use our money as we see fit; if the results of this research, the student senate approves it, which reportedly includes and the senate was mandated pricing of houses, consultations by the students, then they with real estate agencies, and can't say we don't have stu­investigation into modes of dent support. •• financing the endeavor. The incentives for forming a 
According to Riehle, the student housing district are the ultimate approval for the pur­rising froblems of crime and chase of the house will have to lack o property maintenance 
come from the newly formed, which off-campus residents are but yet unelected student confronted with. Riehle senate, which has scheduled its suggested that the greater 
first meeting for Nov. 24. He University regulation inherent added however, that "we are in such a housing district 
Imposters rob student 
By Pam Degnan two men who then said that they News Edtlor would "check it out" at their 
Two men impersonating automobile. The two impersona­police officers took the wallet of tors then got into their car and an off-campus student who sat in drove away with the wallet. his parked car outside of Lyons After realizing that the two Hall late last night. men were not campus security 
Identifying themselves as guards, the student called Notre police officers, the men asked Dame Security giving a vague the student to hand over his discription of the two men and drivers license and student I.D., their car. according to Assistant Security "The car was red without the Director Rex Rakow. The stu­usual emergency stop lights that dent gave his entire wallet to the are found on regular patrol cars," 
Reagan discusses upcontmg transttton 
LOS ANGELES -(AP)-Presi­Reagan said he and Bush were dent-elect Ronald Reagan, with a team and had a ''growing Vice President elect George friendship." Bush at his side, made the He called Bush a valuable 
following points at a press asset, and said his abilities will conference yesterday: be put to use. "No, he isn't 
He would not rule out at this going to be going to a lot of early stage running for re-elec­funerals," Reagan joked. tion in 1984, addmg, "I feel S"Maybe we'll take turns." 
just fine." Reagan dismissed reports 
He does not believe his that conservatives might block election politically disenfran­the bid of Sen. Howard Baker, chised any segment of the 
a moderate from Tennessee, to become Republican leader of
population and pled~ed to "aggressively pursue' equal the Senate now that the COP rights for women even though will be in command there. 
he opposed the ERA. "I not only have confidence He hopes to name his Cabi­in Howard Baker, but I've been net by late November or early informed there is no friction,'' Reagan said. "He will be the
December. Asked whether he will make majority leader.'' an effort to recruit blacks and 
Reagan also appointed Rich­other minorities for Cabinet ard V. Allen to his transitionposts, Reagan said, ''These team and reappointed him to
will be considerations of 
the foreign policy board. Allencourse ... yes, we will be looking stepped down from Reagan'sat that.'' He said he might campaign just before the elec­even considet a Democrat or 
two. tion because of allegations he had used his position in the
He views his victory as a Nixon White House for per­mandate to pursue hts eco­sonal gain later.
nomic policies, which include a 
30 percent tax cut spread out 
Rea~an said his staff had 
over three years and at least a invesugated the charges, "and 
two percent reduction a year in 
we found absolutely no evi­· would ease many of these 
the rate of growth of govern­dence of wrongdoing whatso­difficulties. He cited a similar ment spending. ever:-.. No conflict of interestresidental district at Purdue 
was found, nothing that couldUniversity as confirmation of He said that while he views change our mind about him ... '' 
this. human rights as important, he Riehle concluded that he would not turn away from a 
Conservative groups such as
perceives many landlords in country that has been friendly the Moral Majority turned outthe northeast neighborhood to the U.S. even though there in force to support Reagan''get_ti~g nervous'' with the may be a dispute on thts issue. 
during his campaign. Askedposs1btl1ty of a student housing He promised that Bush will how much weight he woulddistrict. He said, "I think that have an im,t>ortant role in the give these groups in shapingsome of them are slumlords, administration, but did not the executive branch of govern­not maintaining their property. 
spell it out. Told that some ment, Reagan said, "I amThey would be concerned ifwe 
conservatives had said that going to be open to thesestarted getting involved; they Bush, considered a moderate, people... I'm not goi;,g to
would have to increase their 
had better stick to a conserva­separate myself from thestandards. '' 
tive line when he takes office, 
people who elected us." 
David vs. Goliath 
Church group attacks sex on TV 
by Tom Biber people in this country who are offensive were ''The Newlywed 
Associated Press frustrated by what is going on Game," "The Dating Game/'in television today,'' said ) ohn and "Three's a Crowd." Hurt, church pastor and Television's best shows, ac­
NASHVILLE* Tenn. (AP)-In a 
spokesman for the group. cording to the survey, includedbattle against sex on television, "People have said to them­NBC's "Little House on thethe Joelton Church of Christ selves a thousand times, 'some­Prairie," and CBS' "60 sees itself as David against a 
body ought to do something,' Minutes.''
mighty Goliath. And its stones 
so we did." Ignoring networks and pro­are finding their mark. 
ducers, the campaign went
The church says its eight 
after the economtc sould ofmonth old "clean up televi­FRIDAY =:::::::::=:::::::=:=====:=: television-the advertisers.
sion'' campaign has attracted 
Three corporations were 
more than a half million follo­
:::::::::::::::::=::~FOCUS warned to withdraw their 
wers in the United States and commercials from ''offensive''
Canada. It has been com­shows or face boycotts of theirmended by the Southern Ba_e­products.
tist Convention's Christian Ltfe Working from the small The three are Warner/Lam­
commission and endorsed by church in Joelton, a Nashville . 
bert, which _mak_es such pro­conservative TV evangelist suburb, participants surveyed ducts as L1sterme, Rolaids
Jerry Falwell. several hundred Church of Shick razors and Trident gum:The group's fressure also Christ members across the General Foods Corp.-Maxwell
prompted one o TV's largest nation to compile a list of TV 
House Coffee, Jell/0 and sponsors, Warner/Lambert Co. shows considered offensive. 
Kooi-Aid; and American Home to revis_e its advertising policy Heading the list were NBC's Products -chef Boy-Ar-Deeand withdraw commercials "Saturday Night Live," CBS' 
Gulden's Mustard and Sani:from four shows that the "Dallas", and ABC's "Soap," Flush, among others. 
c~urch considers morally offen­"Three's Company" and Hurt said more companies
sive. "Charlie's Angels." ' 'I think there are a lot of Syndicated shows listed as (continued on page 5) 
... 4 "''*FE I . ) 4 I ffP 4 . ··"tf!'··W"' I 4§ .... 'Is -SA'·i £1 I e. @n·. kH II C., ;s;;; IPP 
itt; 4 .;;; ; '
e::& s ..:. -­

1\T~~Sc1J==~==·=~~~=~========~=====================F=n=a=~='=N=~=e=m=be=r=7=,=19=8=0=-=P=~=e~2 
Two former FBI a2ents were convicted of 
violatng individual civil rights by authorizing warrantless searches at homes of friends and relatives of members of the radical Weather Underground during the early 1970s. W. Mark Felt who once was the No.2 official in the FBI, and EdwardS. Mill~r, who headed the bureau's intelligence division, were found guilty ofa single count ofviolating individual civil rights after a trial that lasted nearly two months. Both admitted authorizing izing searches ofhomes in the New York and New Jersey, but the defense contended they had legal authority to do so. No sentencing date was set. Each man could face up to 10 years in prison and a maximum $10,000 in fines, but defense lawyers said they would appeal. The two were the highest­ranking FBI officials ever to be prosecuted -AP 
Movement on the hosta2e issue 
slowed sharply in the aftermath ofthe U.S. presidential election and. one prominent member of Iran's Parliament spoke Thursday of "months" for the release of the 52 captives. The deputy, Sayed Mohammad Khamenei, also said yesterday that the Iranian government would "definitely not" negotiate directly with the U.S. government. Asked how long it would take to resolve the issue, Khamenei said, "it depends on the action which the U.S. government will take. Some of them could be resolved within 24 hours and some in less than six months." Ronald Reagan said yesterday, "We not going to intrude" on hostage negotiations. Foreign leaders must be aware that the president is still the president." said Reagan. 
AP 
Strom Thurmond, R.S.C. prospective 
new chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, pledged yesterday to seek a death penalty law next year and elimination ofwhat he called unnecessary environmental and other federal regulations. Thurmond also told a news conference tl}at blacks and other minority groups have nothing to fear from a conservative regime in 1981 when Republicans take command ofthe Senate. Blacks, he said, "have one ofthe best friends they could have in me. I believe in equality for all. I've always tried to treat them fairly and squarely." Thurmond, 77, once opposed civil rights legislation and was a prominent. among the Southern Democrats who, known as Dixiecrats, opposed the civil rights platform of the regular Democratic Party in 1948. Thurmond switched his party affiliation to Republican in September 1964 and campaigned for GOP presidential nominee Barry M. Goldwater against President Lyndon B. Johnson, who had pushed the Civil Rights Act through Congress a couple of months earlier. Today, Thurmond says civil rights advocates misconstrued his old Dixiecrat affiliation. The issue was "federal power vs. state power" and not racial tolerance, he said yesterday. Thurmond is in line to succeed liberal Sen. Edward 
M. Kennedy, D.Mass., as the Judiciary chairman. -AP 
Police found 5,000 oillSincluding Quaal udes and amphetamines in the home ota Chicago doctor who surrendered after he fired 30 rounds from a submachine gun. P )lice said Dr. Sinisa M. Princevac, 40, gave up Wednesday night after firing at five narcotics investigators who came to his Northwest Side apartment carrying a search warrant. Officers said Princevac was wearng a white, bullet­proof vest, a bathrobe and a Nazi helmet as he left his apartment. Princevac was charged with attempted murder, two counts of possession ofa controlled substance, unlawful use of weapons, aggravated battery and failure to register a weapon. 
Word has~ bee:n received by friends at the 
University of the dea'th Sunday of Paul R Byrne, former librarian and art galler.y'\lirector from 19~2 until his retirement in 1958. He was 91 and resided in the New York area in recent years. Byrne entered the Notre Dame I?reparatory school in 1907 and received a bachelor's degree in 1913. He later received a degree in library science at the State University ofNew York and served in libraries in New York and Ohio before returning to Notre Dame. Under his tenure, the number of library volumes increased tenfold to 300,000, and the University's art collection was moved to the O'Shaughnessy Galleries. Both Notre Dame's books and art works are now in new quarters.­
The Observer 
Partly sunnv and pleasant today. High low 
to mid 60s. Partly c(oudy and mild tonight with a 20 percent chance of showers. Low in the 40s. Cloudy with a 30 percent chance ofshowers Saturday. Cooler with highs in the mid 50s. 
Inside Friday 
Another pretty face? 
Wednesday, a blac~ friend told me: "You know, 
it wasn't any fun waking up and being black this 
morning." 
Neither, I imagine, was it fun to wake up liberal, 
democrat or interested in advancing the general 
social condition. It was fun, however, if you are 
one interested in the personality ofthe media and 
in predicting their treatment of issues and in­, dividuals. 
The media loves a pretty face, but even more 
they love a pretty face that seems to excite the 
multitudes-an excitement the multitudes 
showed the day before my friend awoke in poor 
humours. And Ronald Reagan has a face that is, if 
not pretty, at least rather attractive in the way that 
wise old grandfathers are attractive. He's Grandpa 
USA -Dad to Uncle 
Sam. He looks as 
though he belongs in 
the movies. He's the 
kind of guy I'd feel 
comfortable buying 
Boraxo soap from. 
. The media clearly 
loves him. They held 
their collective passion 
in check throughout 
the election, refraining 
from salivating too of­
ten over his sense of 
dramatics. That was 
admirable, but Wed­
nesday was a different. 
story. 
If you tuned into NBC Nightly News Wednesday, you were treated to a final five minutes on the ques­tion "who is this man, our next president?" What followed in answer was film foot­age taken straight off his campaign film, unveiled at the GOP con­vention in July. The text ofNBC's answer was not much different: he's the all-american boy grown, slightly wrinkled, a real organizer and leader, a man with simple, straight-forward answers to complicated problems. I wanted to vote all over again. 
Time Magazine rushed out a special issue with incredible speed, honoring "that winning smile" with a large color spread. The New York Times draped their front page Thursday with seven out of seven stories celebrating Reagan and the official return to conservatism. The Chicago Tribune weighed in with five out of six. The Associated Press yesterday ran a "Ronald Reagan Trivia Quiz," telling us, among other things, that he used to have a girl in high school do his book reports because he was too busy acting. Sounds All­American to me. And he wears false teeth. There was no mention ofhair dye, though this, for me, is one of the great and burning questions. 
_The_Obsetter_ 
Desip1 Editor. . . . . . . . Margaret A. Kruse Desif.!n Arsirftmf.r . . . . . .. Steve O'Brien 
Matt Dolan. Mare-Bear Dumm Nixbt Techm'don . .....I.. Kathy Crossett Nem Editor . .............. Pam Degnan Copy Editor. . . ...... Mary Fran Callahan Fet1t11m UJ)'OIIf ........... Molly Woulfe Sporets Copy Editor . . . . . .. Mike Ortman SJ•Jtems Tet:hmdon ........ Bob H uffstodt ND DfiJ' Editor .... Rvan "'Bullwinkle for 
. President" Ver Bermoes (.'/(IJ.rified Loyo111 . .. Steve "'Super Chicken" 
O'Brien Photographer . . . . . . . ... Linda Shanahan GHest App()urtmces .. ..... Keenan's Kevin, Kevin& Dave. Howdidlknowtomorrow was Ryan's Birthday?--A little moose told 
me!! 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam ana vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved. 
.-----------~----------------------------------, 
HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL 
MBA PROGRAM 
An Admissions Representative from Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration will be on campus 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14 
to meet with students interested in the two-year MBA Program 
Contact the Career Planning and Placement .Center 
for more details and to sign up for an information session. 
Harvard Business School is committed to the principle of equal educational opportunity and evaluates candidates without regard to race, sex, creed, national origin or handicap. 
Mark 
Rust 
Managing Editor 

Even Pravda ·licked bourgeois shoes. He was elected, the Russian media told her people, because the capitalists were displeased with Carter's boycott of the Olympic games and continued hostility toward mother Russia. Right, comrade. 
The media loved Jimmy Carter-for about two 
seconds. His populist image got old with them real quick. By the time he favored walking rather than riding in style down Pennsylvania Avenue, the media was already looking down their noses at him. For the old-time political writers, covering the newcomer was a little like the Vanderbilts being invited to a party thrown by a noveau riche. 
But Reagan's aristo­cratic bearing and freshness guarantees him a warm welcome in a media that evident ly judges Washington newcomers not by how much experience in office they have, but rather by how much time they've spent on the tube. And Ronald's an old friend. In the meantime I'm 
feeling sorry for my friend, buying stock in 
Boraxo, and wa!ching the tube. My guess is we are 
all going to be treated to one of those perennial 
love stories. 
Observer Notes 
Have you witnessed a crime which should be reported? Do you have newsworthy in­formation which might turn into an important article? Is there something we should be covering? If so, call. The Observer news de­partment and let us know. We welcome any and all contributions from our readers-call 283-7471, 8661, or 1715, 24 hours a day, Sunday through Thursday. All sources are guaranteed confidentiality. 

J 
The Observer Fnday, November 7, 1980 -page 3 
Toss up for ten 
Reagan trivia generates interest 
DIXON, Ill. (AP)-Quick! What famous poliucalleader rescued 77 people from drowning in the Rock River and recovered one poor swimmer's false teeth as well? 
Answer: Ronald Reagan, the next president of the United States and leader of the Free World, whose boyhood home here is suddenly a bot property for trivia buffs more interested in Reagan particulars than Reagan politics. 
Here's a bit of Reagan lore to make the trivia hunters happy: Reagan played the lead in the 1928 senior class play, "Captain Applejack," but his debut on the boards came a year earlier in the junior class play, "You and I" -all about the generation gap. 
How about this? Classmate Phyllis Landis did his book reports at North Dixon High School. "He was too busy with football and sports and dramat­tics," she says now. Fact is, Phyllis is one of the 77 folks Reagan is credited with saving during seven summers as a lifeguard at Lowell Park Beach, where the local story has it that young "Dutch" put a notch in a log each time he pulled 


Friday, November 14 • 8:00 p.m. Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets: $9.00/$8.00 all seats reserved. Good seats still available at the ACC Box OHice and River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North -3 miles north of campus 
swimmer from the river. "My two brothers grabbed 
me by the feet and turned me upside down int the river,'' she recalls. "I didn't know how to swim and Dutch jumped in and pulled me out. And, oh, how he gave my brothers the devil.' 
Trivia hunters note that the local police chief found the young teen-aged Reagan one night teetering atop a down­town street lamp and fined him $1 for being drunk. John Crabtree recalls his longtime pal looked down at the chief and said, ''Twinkle, twinkle little star, who the hell do you think you are?'' 
His steady girlfriend was named Margaret Cleaver, but everybody just called her Mugs. He went to Hollywood and married actress ) ane Wyman. Mugs married a forei~n service officer and lives now 10 a suburb of Washing­ton, D.C. 
As an athlete, Reagan was "the lightest, fastest guard" on the 1928 Dixon Dukes football team, according to the school yearbook. It took him­two years to make the varsity. His playing weight was 120 pounds. 
For those interested in the president-elect's beginnings, he was born in Tampico 26 miles away, in an apart~ent over the red brick First Nation­al Bank building. But first mention of his arrival dido' t show up in the Tampico Tor­nado until four days laer, Feb. 10, 1911: 
'') ohn Reagan (his father) has been calhng 37 inches a yard and ~iving 17 ounces for a pound thts week at Pitney's store because he has been 
feeling  so  jubilant  over  the  
arrival  of  a  10  pound  boy  
Monday."  

The Reagan family moved to Dixon when he was 9. All of the five houses they lived in remain standing, except the fourth one on Galena Avenue which was torn down for a McDonald's fast-food restaur­ant. 
It was Bernard Frazer
Reagan's high school dram~ coach, who recalls the day his 

E~itor's Note: Thts article ts reprinted . the reflected images of the 

wtth  permtssion  from  Museum  
magazine.  by  Rev.  Theodore  
Hesburgh  

The capacity creowd in Notre Dame Stadium grew expectant as kickoff time neared, and all 
eyes turned toward the entrance ramp behind the north end zone. The visiting team ran onto the field and was met witn the usual chorus of boos. The Fighting Irish appeared, and the fans cheered. But they seemed to be waiting for something else. Finally, a trailer bus emerged
f h 
rom t. e ramp,.and the cro~d stood m "sustam~d an~ "wtld 
you,·:ng student dove for an • ap~lause. The Botler Ktd had hour or more to retrieve the arnved. lost dentures of an elderly The open-ended trailer would swimmer. "He got a park very near the goal posts.
$5
reward," Frazer recalls. "And lns~de it was and iron lung from $5 was a lot of money in those whtch Frederrick Smite, Jr., days.'' would watch the football game, players scampering across a large 
mirror placed above his head on 
the artificial respirator. 
This month of November, about the distance ofa good punt from where Frederick Snite enjoyed the autumn athletic ritual of his alma mater, the University of Notre Dame will dedicate The Snite Museum of • Art, a gift of his father, the late Colonel Fred B. Snite, founder of the Local Loan Company. And in the atrium will stand a Madonna and Child by sixteenth-century It:alla.n sculptor Jacopo Sansovino, memorializing a polio victim who turned affliction into grace, weakness into strenght and a crippling disease into a life of wholeness that inspired millions. 
The remarkable story of Frederick Snite,Jr., begins three years after his 1933 graduation from Notre Dame whe he con­tracted polio in China while his family was on a 'round-the-world trip. The paralysis spread rapidly, ad oly te availability of an iron lung within minutes ofwhere the disease struck Frederick saved his life. At the time there were only about 200 such respirators in the world, and the one that breathed for him that anxious night inn Peiping was the eight ever made ad the only one in all of Asia. 
Frederick was to be bound to an iron lung for the next eighteen years escaped only for those limited hours in which a portable chest respirator could support him, hours which be­came fewer as he grew older. 
Ounng the coming years, Frederick and his qmnipresent iron lung would become familiar symbols of courage in the nation's news­papers and newsreels, and "The Broiler Kid" nickname would be used by journalists across the country. 

SUNDAY MASSES AT SACRED HEART CHURCH 5:15 p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, 9:00 a.m. Sunday Rev. Bernie Gaudreau 10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. Neils Rasmussen, 12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. Austin Fleming 7:15p.m. Vespers Rev. Neils Rasmussen,  campusminiStry C.S.C. OP OP  

----~~­
The Observer
--------------------------------------------------------:Fn~a~ay,Novem~r7, 1980-page4 

Willemin explains interview lines 
by Louis Breaux 
Willemin, director of placement commented. "We've been open­ing the doors earlier on Mondays to accomodate those students 
who have gotten up early to sign up. The problem here is not relatively bad. At many univer­sities, students have to wait in line every day ofthe week. He~e. the lines are only on Monday mornings," he added. The rest of the week students can sign up for additional interviews with other employers at their leisure. 
"The system we have now is the traditional one and it has worked well. The majority of students get interviews with the companies they want to," Willemin commented. 
Accounting majors, engineer­ing, and science students need not necessarily stand in line because of the ample interview­ing opportunities afforded them. Mainly it has been business and arts and letters students who have been queuing up Mondays in search of positions in finance, management, public relations, computer applications, retail selling, mark.eting, and the like. 
Wiilemin hopes the system will be replaced by computeriza­tion in the future. Students will only need to turn in a computer card with information on the student's degree, major,location preferences, priority of interview, and number of interviews com­
pleted from  which  a  selection  
will be made.  
"The  computer  should  al­ 

leviate the need for students to wait in line. We hope to begin the service as soon as possible," Willemin said. "With the com­puter we will also be able to have quick access to an almost infinite amount ofuseful career informa­tion for the students." 
. Willemin explained that the rationale behind the present system is that those students who really want to interview with a company will be the ones waiting in lines come Monday morning. 
============= 
Senior class 
news 
Off-campus students can pick up their Senior Class Newsletters in the Student Activities Office in LaFortune. 
Some of the events planned for Seniors include: 
A racketball & tennis tour­nament and party at the South Bend Racket Club on Nov. 15. You don't have to compete-we rented the club for the night. Sauna and whirlpool available. All you can drink. 
A Get-Together at Senior Bar. A "Come as your favorite professor'' theme has been suggested. 
A Late Night Skate at Rain­bow Roller Rink on Nov. 21 from 11:30 to 1:30 a.m. ND and SMC have rented the entire /lace. $1.00 admission and .75 skate rental. We request the records. 
A Tailgater and Concession Stand for the Air Force Game on Nov. 22. 
And don't forget the Senior Death March. 
Bayh 
•
rettres from political 
arena 
ii.,..~~~····~~!!~'!!!!!!!!••••••••.. 
The Best in Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. Closed Sundays & Holidays 

' INDIANAPOUS (AP)--For 18 ·,for his successor. 
years, Birch Bayh was an Indiana institution; a liberal voice from a conservative state, a powerful presence in the halls of the U.S. Senate. 
On Tuesday, his constituents sent him home. 
"I think the people of Indiana wrote my political obituary," Bayh said, but in truth, the 52-year-old Democrat seemed to be writing his won. "I just don't think I have any more stomach for andy more public life,", he said. "It isn't as much fun as it used to be." 
Bayh's comments, which came shortly after he conceded to two' term Republican Rep. Dan Quayle, capped a political saga that led Bayh to the · Senate on a path remarkable similar to that which lies ahead 
In 1962, Bayh was the brash young politic taking on three-term Sen. Homer Capehart in a race nobody thousht he could win. In 1980's pohtical drama, the role of handsome newcom­er was played by Quayle, a conservative Huntington law­yer who went so far as to borrow from Bayh's rhetorical library of 18 years ago. 
Throughout a long, often bit­ter campaign, Quayle frequent­ly referred th Bayh as saying, back then, that 18 years in the Senate is long enough, adding, "That'stheonethingonwhich Senator Bayh and I agreed." 
The majority ofvoters agreed, too, handing Quayle almost 55 percent ofthe vote, and preser­ving Indiana's tradition of turn­ing out senators after three 
terms.
Bayh, who ftrst arrived in Washington a mederate, stead­ily developed more liberal lean­ings. His support of the Equal Rights AMendment and belief in the right of wome to have abortions made him a target for defeat this year by a number of conservative politi­cal groups, which he referred to as "right-wins haters." 
The blue-eyed, wavy-haired Hoosier seemed to have few enemies when he pulled off his stunning upset nearly two de­cades ago. 
A former champion 4-H toma­
to grower and an honors grad­
uate of Purdue University Law 
?chool o~ Agr~cul~re and Ind-ru~har1nt~n:;olbs ~ar;; 
tana Umverstty Law School g ' Y · ' 
Bayh' f, lk d d' votes. Lugar made tt to the 
s o sy manner an goo S at tw b 
looks attracted everyone from en ~ o years 1ater Y bleu-collar workers to farmers ~rush~ng tw~-terkm Demacrauc to coal miners. en. ance art e. . 
. . Marvella Bayh, a vtgorousVeteran polmcal observers cam_pa~gner for her husband, 
later. ~eclared his opponent's. televtston spots, featuring Homer Capehart and his hogs down on the farm, to be no match for Bayh's campaign song, sung to the tune of "Hey Look Me Over.'' The song began: "Hey look him over he's your kind of guy. His ftrs~ name is Birch. His last name is Bayh." 
Hardly a Grammy winner, perhaps, but analysts have since said that the ditty made all the difference in a problem that had hampered Bayh's campaign: name recognition. 
The tune also impressed his next opponent, Imana House Majority Leader William Ruck­elshaus, who in 1968 bought up the; copyright before ~he cam­patgn had even· beJun. He might have used it himself, he 
saia later, "except nothing
rhymes with Ruckelshaus ex­cept Mickey Mouse and out­house.'' 
Ruckelshaus' strategy failed Bayh beat his high-powered Republican challenger by 71,885 votes, overcoming an Indiana pluralitY of 261,000 votes by Richard Nixon. 
Then came a brief but unsuc­cessful bid for the 1972 Demo­cratic Presidential nomination, and effort shut down before 1971 even ended because of the illness of his wife Marvella from cancer. 
Victory for a third term c~me in 1974, . when. Bayh beat another h~gh-cah~er Republi­died of cancer last year. Bayh forged ahead with his fouth Senate cmapaing, helped by his only son Evan, who stayed out of the University of Virgi­nia Law School for asemester to campaign . 
In discussing his plans, Bayh mentioned several possibilities: teaching and farming among the list. Whatever lies ahead, history already has recorded him as an active senator who leaves a long legacy of legisla­tion. 
He helped shape proposals for the 18-year-old vote, which later became the 26th Amend­ment, and helped win Senate approval of the ERA, after a 49-year record of defeats in Congress. 
His proposal to abolish the electoral college in favor of derect presidential voting brought together such duverse groups as the NAACP, the 
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the AFL/CIO and the Ameri­can Bar Association. 
He led the successful Senate fights a~ainst Richard Nixon's nominations of Clement Hay­nesworth and G. Harrold Carswell to the U.S. Supreme Court. 
"I think I've been a good senator, a successful senator,' ' he said when it was all over. 
But instead of a good night's sleep after 18 years of work for 
Iniana,  Bayh opted  to  work  
some more.  
In Indianapolis  on  Wednes­ 

day, Bayh and son Evan greet­ed the day outside yet another fectory gate, shaking hands in the dark with the workers and saying thanks. 
It was 6 a.m., 37 degrees, and nowhere near as much fun as it used to be. 
BEND 
hair designs for the aware man and woman. 
STUDENT SPECIAL 
MON-TUES-WED. onlv 
·FREE REDKEN CONDITIONER 
WITH
•
HAIRCUT & AIR-DRY STYLE 
@REDI<EN® 
HOURS mon-8:30-5:00 1  fri-8:30-6:30  
tues-wed· 8:30-5:30 ;  sat-8:00-4:00  
thurs-8:30-8:30  I  phone:234-676?  

Since the beginning of 
· October, students interviewing with potential employers, must wait in line line-sometimes overnight-to secure the inter­
. views they want. 
The present system requires that students seeking interviews sign up for them in the Place­ment Office on a "first come, first serve" basis. The sign-ups begin on Mondays at 8 a.m. for interviews scheduled for the following week. 
A limit ofonly two sign-ups per student is allowed on Mondays. Nevertheless, the demand for interviews with certain com­panies is so large that schedules are often filled by that afternoon. There is usually at least one of these major companies interview ing every week. Some students have even camped out in front of the Placement Bureau to get the interviews and times they desire. 
"We haven't heard that many complaints about the system from the students at all," Richard 

Greek Gyros 
10 oz. Prime Rib~-··•········..···················...-6.95 
22 oz. and up Prime 1\ib_ ............-.12.95 choice,lcooked slowly, tender, juicy ... so good· 
su(!!o~~~redi'iisau'ieeCl""""""'--9•95 
mushrooms pampered w/lemon 6 butter) 
LUNCHEON SPECIALS
Stuffed Orollecf Trout/ .....-.6.95 
SERVED DAILY
Greek Shishkabob-........._.6.95 Steak 6 Shrimp..................... 6.95 
GRECIAN CUISINE: open Sun. for dining & cocktails
Specializing in 
4:30-IO:OOpm 
The Plllrtftenon 
me Grecian AtwtOsphers 
Enjo:, Our 2 Dining RciOms. 
3421 West SaiiPle• So. Bend 282-2423 

-----------~----­

Friday, November 7, 1980 -page. 'i 




In many ways, college prepares you to think independently. That's a great quality for an engineer ~o have. But just as importa~t is the ability to work effectively on a team. We've found that the results of team work are much, much greater than the sum of the parts. That's why Fluor, one of the country's largest and leading engineer­ing and construction firms, is organized totally around the team concept. 
As a new engineer you'll be assigned to a project that matches your abilities and Interests. You'll stay with the project from start to finish, all the while developing new skills and polishing yollr ability to contribute as a task force member. We think the approach makes you more capable of Independent creativity, not less. At the same time you're in the perfect position to leam from more experi­enced professionals who come from many disciplines. For the new graduate In particular, that is a productive place to be. 
So if you're thinking about your potential in the job market, why not think about doubling it? Let us tell you more about the Fluor team and about the great salary, full benefits and advancement po­tential that make us a top Fortune 500 company. We will be inter­viewing on campus Monday, November 10, 1980 for the following 
disciplines: 
Mechanical Engineering Electrical Engineering Civil Engineering Chemical Engineering 
For more details, contact your placement office. 
,,fEY~Q!CTORS, INC. 



Religious relics dating from the 6th and 7th centuries A.D. This display is in "The daughters of Cecrops Discover the Infant Erichthonius," an oil painting the Ancient, Medieval and Early Renaissance Gallery. by Dutch painter Gerard de Lairesse the Elder (1641-1711). This painting hangs in the Knott-Beckman Gallery of High Renaissance and Baroque. 


:!llt6tunt 



"The Coronation of the Virgin," a German wood 
An airy modern sculpture.
on gilt and polychromestatuedatingc. 1460. 
Friday, November 7, 1980 -page 7 


-NIN~­
I 
I 
SNID''E MUS'EUM
~ 
___O'F JlJ(O' ___ 
Sunday, Nov. 9 1-5:00 p.m. 
Join the 'F:RI'EN'DS O'F D'H'E SNID''E MUS'EUM Stuoent Mem6ership-$5.00 . . 'For more information contact Charlie :Russ @ 3319 oreal! D'H'E 'F:RI'EN'DS' office @ 4533/4524 

THE SNITE MUSEUM O;F.ART 
Editorials 
Friday, November 7, 1980 -page 8 
The last election article ...for this year Michael Onufrak 

West Virginia, how much will he support the computer industry. In existence. A few million media extra help the TV networks hire newsstands. In honor of the spend on the entire country? So fact, if president-elect Reagan is dollars invested in the right soft­could retain their jobs and even the election, Time pushed its deadlines why wait until 1984? Why not hold really serious about getting tough ware research group though, and local people hired by the respective ahead three days and has scooped an election next year? He'll run, the with the Russians, and subsequent­this computer could become parties to watch the polls, wuldd its rival Newsweek in much the economy will be ·saved, and in ly denying them advanced tech-reality. A competitive computer avoid the welfare list. same way NBC trounced CBS and 1982 the economy will get another nology, he should immediately race not unlike the arms race ofthe Manufacturers of buttons, posters, ABC on election night. Time's boost when it comes time for his re-impound NBC's election com­Fifties would ensue, and before loudspeakers, and other makers of col'erage is nothing short ofspec­election. Even if Rockefeller were puter. Not only did this marvel of you know it American computers political paraphernalia would sup­tacular and only the financial to lose a national election next technology call the race accurate­would far outstrip all others. But port this move with the end result potential of the definitive election year, he would probably,st.jll want a ly, it called it early. Naturally, the make the election an annual event being reduced uemployment and wrap-up, complete with Reagan rematch in '82. 1 other two networks will be spoiling and you could step up the com­even more economic stimulus. interview and cabinet predictions, 
Another reason why presidential to get even with NBC and will try to petition four-fold. That is progress Add it all up and I think you will could have inspired it. elections should be held annually is get a bigger and better computer for and a healthy way to keep the agree that not only are presidential Next time you hear someone the excellence displayed by the · 1984. economy moving forward. campaigns self-supporting, self­complain that the campaigns are media in covering the campaigns. NBC's computer may be so And I think the politicians would sustaining institutions; they are too long, the media coverage too presidential campaigns not only advanced however, that neither favor this system. Annual pres­also superb economic and social overwhelming, and the whole allow the media to try out new network will be able to find the right idential elections would mean therapy. They eject money into the selection process too commer­
more continuity for political or­economy and reduce unemploy­cialized and too subjective, re­ganizations. Instead of joining un­ment. They foster potential tech­member the economic benefits.Doonesb 
Garry Trudeau employment lines for three years nology-improving competition and And if you're looking for a cadidate until the next presidential competi­make the media more interesting to back in '84 and you want to see tion, pollsters and ad men could and efficient. The best example of the economy back where it should 
earn their salaries planning next this last point is Time itself which be consider Jay Rockefeller.
IT'S A5l< fER. 



511E SAYS NE~R 
NO!IAJ4ff.l
MINI), SHE'/.1.. FINO 
IKJN'T HAN(j
:DfCON& fi.SE 7D TAJ(C A SHOIAJ&R 
UP!~ 
Ult1H.' I 
Tim Neeley responds 
A letter was published by The Observer this past Tuesday, October 28, which claimed that the answer to one of my trivia questions was wrong. At this tune I am going to prove that my answer was correct. 
The question, which appeared in the October 9 Observer, reads as follows: The first solo album recorded by any Beatie was a movie soundtrack. What was the album's name?" The important words in the ques­tion are recorded by. 
The movie soundtrack from "The Family Way" was recor­ded in November and Decem­ber of 1966 and released in England inJanuary of 1967, in America six months after that. Therefore, it predates "Won­derewall Music'' by George Harrison by roughly a year and a half to two years. However, the soundtrack to ''The Family Way" was not recorded by Paul McCanney. He wrote the music,yes-McCartney wrote music (and words) for many different anists from 1962-66-­but the album was recorded by George Marrin's orchestra. As any Beatie fan should know, George Manin's orchestra was responsible for the instrumen­tal background music in the movies ''A Hard Day's Night,'' "Help!," and "Yellow Sub­marine" as ·well. Paul Mc­Cartney was not involved with recording the album in any way--he did no vocals, he played no instruments, and he did not produce the album. He merely wrote the music. My sources for this information are 
All Together Now--The First 
Complete Beatles Discography 1961-1975 by Harry Castleman and Walt Podrazik, and a picture of the album cover from the soundtrack of ''The Family Way" (I wish I had a copy of the album, for it is quite rare.) 
I appreciate Mr. Sundry's concern in this matter . It seems that, if nothing else, people are reading my trivia quizzes in the hopes of me making a mistake. But rest assured that I check my ans­wers and the manner in which my questions are worded several times before I use them. However, if anyone ever does find an answer or ques­tion that heI she believes is in error, please let me or The Observer know about it. I will correct myself if I am wrong. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Ihe Obser_ver.== 
Editor-i11-Chiej .......... Paul Mullaney Sports Editor ............ Beth Huffman 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Ma11agi11g Editor . ......-:-":'·.... Mark Rust Features Editor ........... Molly Woulfe The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Photo Editor .............. .John Macor
Editorials Editor ......... Mike Onufrak
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Se11ior Copy Editor . ........ Lynne Daley 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reponed Busi11ess Ma11ager , ........ Greg Hedges
Executive News Editor .... Tom Jackman
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a Co11troller ..•.........•....•. .Jim Rudd 
News Editor .............. Pam Degnan
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views Advertisi11g Ma11ager .......... Mark Ellis of their authors. Column SJ;lace is available to all members of the community, and SMC Executive Editor .... Margie Brassil Circulatio11 Ma11ager ....... Beth Hackett the free expression of varymg opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC News Editor ... ...... Mary Leavitt Productio11 Ma11ager ......John McGrath 
~ 
• 
The Observer Friday, November 7, 1980 -page 9 
Still struggling for a Student Senate Paul Riehle 
empty-handed either. In our dis­mobilize student support. But they meet with the Student Affairs make the valid contention that pro­about the things that haven't gone 
exactly as we would have liked them cussion, it was apparent to me that felt that bad feelings that might arise Committee of the Trustees once a posals with the support of university to, let's keep moving ahead. Nothing the Trustee's conception of the on one issue would carry over into semester). personnel such as faculty and rectors can be gained from resignation. Getfunction of the CLC is much Student-Administration relations in will have more weight in the eyes of motivated about the district
different than what the CLC actually other areas where something posi­The first issue the Student Senate the administration and therefore has been. In the preamble the CLC is tive might' be accomplished. To will consider is the Senate's relation­would have greater likelihood of elections. avoid confrontation, they stressed ship to the CLC. There seems to be
authorized to "make appropriate being realized. recomendations relative to hall life"; the need for a buffer organization two student opinions. Some feel that If you would like to run for one of 
between students and administra­the Student Senate should go it I will be working with the same the district positions, there will be a
the Trustees felt there was a need for a body like the CLC not for hall life tion. They recognized that there are alone. They say that if the admini­two people who rewrote the Student mandatory meeting this Monday, deficencies in the present construc­stration wants to set up a buffer Government constitution, cabinet November I 0, at the student
per se, but for student affairs in tion of the CLC. And they gave us body, it should create that buffer. members Paul Callahan and Terry government offices, second floor
general. They recognized the 
the This group reasons that it would be Parker, on what we feel will be an
JX>tential of the Student Senate to unprecedented opportunity to LaFortune. Campaigning will take 
present a proposal for its reorganiza­unwise for the Sl!nate to diffuse acceptable CLC. We will present place November 13-17 and the Paul Riehle is Notre Dame's tion at the January Executive Board its power our conclusions to the Senate which Student Senate will hold its first student body president. meeting. (Students usually only into another body. Others, however, will make the decision for the student meeting Monday, November24. 
The problem with institutions Cutting it close 
Art King Art Buchwald 
WASHINGTON-A reader leaders in the Middle East who To whom it may concern, that is depths of their souls. (Something I 
stay in bed when they are sick has asked me to help him with a don't shave every day. By the 
someone who is in a position to do would not have done at their age) because there is a test. problem he has. The question he same token, they refuse to growsomething: That is, I say, the hope, the at-I hear nothing about plans which posed is: "I notice that PLO beards. They prefer a four-to six­
The battle cry of the President of traction, the challenge, the excite­will improve student living, and I leader Yasser Arafat and the new day growth, but no more. My the University is EXCELLENCE. ment that should be a university. don't mean more .pigeon holes in Iranian Prime Minister Ra.jai al­source believes they're all using Any organism which has more than Somehow I have the foolish idea that which to stuff more bodies. I hear ways manage to appear with a the same razor blade." one part has to have all its parts in it ought to be all together, integrated, nothing about such things as a four-to six-day growth of beard, "Did your source tell you how balance if it is to function with visible, or at least moving in that student union. (That's a building which never grows any longer. they manage to get the razor 
excellence. (If it is to function at all direction. where young people can go to have How do they manage to do it?" blade back and forth?" and not disfunction) I live in one of those parts of the fun.) I hear nothing about a living In order to get the answer, I "Arafat seems to be the bag I have a bum leg. Most of the time University-the part which is re­situation where men and women can called a friend of mine at the CIA man. He's always traveling it aches, so I compensate and limp moved from the workshops of learn­be real neighbors (dare I say the who was very upset that I was on somewhere and my man believes ever so slightly. That puts a strain on ing. Sometimes it's like my leg, and nasty word coed residences) like to something. He agreed to meet he has the razor blade hidden in other parts of this carcass which I we compensate. But the compen­they are on the rest of the planet. l me in a safe house in McLean, Va. his turban. We've never seen a drag around. sations are not good nor healthy. I hear nothing about creating facilities .He told me to take a taxi to picture of Yasser without his Life on this university compound live in a place where I found myself and conditions which acknowledge National Airport, buy a ticket to .headdress. It would be the (I use the word advisedly) has many greeting people after the break, the normal outlets that ordinary men Bangor, Me., and then at the last obvious place to keep it.~' parts. Sometimes I think I have spent "Welcome home!" For it ought to and women need and have the right moment rent a car and drive to 
·'Suppose we told you it wasn't
too many years in the adademic be, at least for the time being. I live in to in order to maintain some balance the address. bl d b S . .
1
When 1met him at the house a razor a e uta ov1et e ectncworld. I wonder why after 20 years I a place where unhealthy and exager­and sanity in their lives, and which, 
' razor"
have come back to it. Somewhere in ated attitudes are developing about by the way, are neither unreasonable there were three CIA agents in · my gut I have an idea that a studying, drinking, socializing, and nor extravagant. I hear nothing the living room, who refused to !wouldn't an electric r~~or give university should be a place where the relationships between men and about creating a balance between the give their names, and my friend. them all a clean sh~ve? , intelligent people manage a balance women. These are the problems science of learning and the art of "Why are you interested in "You would thmk so, my between technical learning and people are talking about here and living in the University President's Arafat and Rajai's shaving prob-friend said. Arafat practical living. Its attraction is the there. And self destruction rides just plans for growth towards excellence. !ems?" one of them wanted to shaves every day with one, and so young people who are experimenting.· under the surface of the troubled What I do hear and expenence are know. does Ra.jai and a lot of other with life in a milieu from which I do waters like that proverbial and the moans and groans from this I played dumb. "Just curiosity. people in that part of the world. not come. Its challenge is sorting out ridiculous monster Jaws. sector of life which is hurting and A reader asked me and I thought But even on the adjustable high 
he deserved an answer." setting, it's the bestthey can do."
values for their relevance to "" age Excellence. Balance. Indeed. I limping badly. But you can only hear which goes far beyond the hr .> read about the President's plans for them if you listen and experience "A likely story," one of the "Why do you people want to 
others sneered. "You were tip-keep this a secret?" I asked. "I
of my childhood. (The "w lf the growth of the University. A new them if you feel. Life here is like a too tomorrow" in 1939 was d-building for this, a new building for tight pair ofshoes and the option is if ped off by someone in the should think it would be to our 
agency, weren't you?" advaptage to publicize the fact
vanced age of the now de... ea:.ed that...monuments to academia. I they hurt-go barefoot. 
"I don't think I have to answer that the Soviets are unloading1950's_) And its excitement is the experience the same mania in the In the scheme of "things," one that." rejected electric razors on theirenergy and vitality of the young paranoia of students, no, young does not respond to presidential "It's obvious . To get to· friends."
which compels them sometimes to people, who have convinced them­messages. That is because they are the bottom of this, we'll tell you "Because every morning whendo and say the most outrageous selves that it is an extravagance to rhetorical. But there is always hope what we know if you tell us what Arafat and his cronies shave, itthings but also, to open to us who . . . . for miracles ... even such little ones as you know." causes them excruciating pain,have 'assed the halfway mark in life Art Kmg_ OMits m hts hearing and feeling. I wonder if it 
P . d profound first year as chap/am of F/anner "It sounds good to me," I said. and for the moment we want to
really works. 
the more senous an Hall. 
l"lt seems there are a lot of 1 keep it that way." 


• 
Features 
Friday, November 7, 1980 -page 10 
Hey, I'm Dead! (...A Parody) 
A h ... the pard ox that has plagued Observer readers or years. Being rid of 90-minute flight from Newark to South Bend. Chval and LaGrotta is what you work for ... it's what you tell the student body 
"Hey did you hear Frank LaGrotta's going to be executed??" Mike Boushka they can achieve if they are dedicated; if they give their best; if they get a few told Pete Buchanan through a grin he tried hard to conceal. But Buchanan breaks. didn't buy it and neither did Nick Vehr, Jeff Leuken or any of the others So when they are finally nearly there, why all the stony glances from the Boushka tried to fool. They had already been suprised by Craig Chvals's same people who will rejoice on November 22nd? They must know something scheduled execution at half time of the November 22nd Air Force game. A the rest of us don't. LaGrotta death sentence would mean-ah, why think about it. Boushka was This young execution squad, that starts more freshmen and sophomore just joking, any:way. ROTC Marines, than juniors and seniors, is getting a crash course on pressure.
Five minute:; later as they w~lke,d Qffthe plane, .the Notrfi Dame players and But the lessons are sketchy. A drill Sergeant can teach his privates how to EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.-Itstartedasajoke to break the monotony ofa 
1 . Then everyone 
coaches tound out t 1at Boushka s Joke was no JOKe at a march, how to aim the gun, and how to fire, and even how to talk to Davidstarted laughing-for real. 
Israel. But he can't stick his squad in a solitary cell to insulate them fromThe small, well-intentioned crowd waiting at the circle did little to dampen players, students and parents who want to know, "How you feelin'? How is thethe enthusiasm that stemmed from the knowledge that they were soon to be squad lookin'? The hell with Chval! Can you get LaGrotta?" 
rid of the most repugnant sportswriting duo in the land. 
"We are to execute Chval November 22nd, "the sergeant reminded his "Hey, Chaval and LaGrotta are gonna go!" They pinched each other as talk squad yesterday. "We don't talk about, think about, plan for or worry about turnedfromexhaustion and injuries to celebration of this unexpected turn of anybody but Chval first." 
events. And why not? After all. it isnt't everyday you can tell yc :u mother her Good advice-if it's taken. 
son is going to start sending Observers ·home again. It's a feeling most people "Twenty years ago, I led a Missouri squad in to perform a similar stunt," the can't relate to, because you have to be a part of it-Notre Dame player or sergeant remembers. "We lost our composure and could not cHry.out hestudent-to know what it means to be rid of Chval and LaGrotta. 
execution, and we lost a chance to blow away a couple ofawful spoaswrite1 :."
And just what does it mean? 
And while we're playing "Remember when?" one can only shudder when Well, The Observer gets a lot less hate mail and seething editorials for one one recalls the first time Chval and LaGrotta were linked. It was in 1976, when thing. Ofcourse a good argument would be, how much less? Butlook at it this Chval travelled to South Bend to check out the sportswriting in The Observer,way: disdain for their articles reached incredible levels when the Irish were 7-4. 
and he didn't have to wirte more than once a week to do it. 
Just imagine what it will be like on the sports page without the most Ifthe squad goes into theNovember 22nd half-time show burning Chval and incompetent couple in the land. 
LaGrotta's press clippings and waving their guns prematurely, something Pressure. 
terrible could happen again. ­The questions: "But we're not going to let that happen," promises the sergeant. "This
"How do you like being through with them?" 
squad and the entire student body has been through too many years of
Do you thing they deserve it?" 
mindless drivel on the sports page, and they won't let down now. Look at the 
Do you think they deserve it?" 
punishment they have endured. Look at the articles they've had to put up
"Can it be carried out?" 
with. They've worked hard and they deserve this honor.
Pressure. 
And they're not going to let anthing get in their way." 
The concentration: So, here come Chval andLaGrottawith a sentence that they deserve more
"Hey man, I'm one of LaGrotta's buddies from Pittsburgh." 
than any other sportswriters in the nation. We can easily do without them. 
"Hey man, maybe they'll throw you in jatl for this." 
At last, forever.
"Hey man, DavidIsrael will write a column about this on thefrontpage ofthe Tribune. " Author's note: This article is meant in goodfun, and shouldn't be taken too seriously, ltke
Pressure. 
Ch~'tJI's and LaGrotta's articles. ' 
The Challenge: 
Editor's note: Due to tbe extraordinary popularity ofFrank LaGrotta's column, many"They're Chval and LaGrotta. They're our Number 1 targets. 
campus wrtfers are endeavoring to imitate his style. Few have come this close.
We're gonna do our damndest to kick their ass. 
Ken Klingen 
Second Scene Theatre; Beckett and 'Molly 's &Jng '' 
On the ND-SMC campuses, there 
is always room for th~: grandiose 
gesture, the pompous circumstance. 
But what ofthe haunting silences--or 
th~ terrifying lack of sd·ence--which 
often circumscribe, often define the 
events of a lifetime? In three shon 
plays, Come and Go, Footfalls, and 
Not I, Samuel Beckett captures the 
rhythms of solitude which measure 
endlessly our confrontations with 
one another and with ourselves. In 
their production of Beckett's "Ulti­
Mates'' this past weekend, ND-SMC 
Second Scene pfayers, under the 
direction of Leonard Powlick, ren­
dered exquisite the shiftins cadences 
of the playwright's disturbmg vision. 
The dramatic impact of each play 
was powerful; the cumulative effect, 
extraordinary. 
In the first of the presentations, • 
Annie Patterson, Regtna Pratt, and 
Co4en Quinn did an excellent job of 
portraying three aging women who 
come and go, passin~ the time-­
endlessly, ··tn minimal com­muntcation with one another. this is not to say~ however, that they communicated little to the audience. With a stage_ empty of all bu,t the bench on whtch they sat, and with m(i>Vement, gesture, and dialogue severely limited, the three nonthe­less conveyed that sense of compla­cency (in the face of the meantng­lessness of life) which becomes, ultimately, the most terrifying of realities. The restraint of the actres-, ses and of the director aAlowed the play's subtitles, to have a much greater impact than they would in the hands of a less perceptive company; each gesture demanded 
the audience's fUll attention, each facial expressi6n or worcil, its careful consideration. 
Rachel f'atterson, as the disturbed woman of Footfalls, was haunting in her measured pacing back and forth across the stage. The rhythm of her footfalls punctuated the silence--or the words--with which she defined her life, and the voice of her mother (Mary Patricia Ellis) intensified the performance as the disembodied presence intenwined in, the fictions May/Amy weaves about her life. Here, as in Come and Go, the silence is every bit as eloquent as the spoken word; in Ms. Patterson's and Ms. Ellis's dramatic presenta­tions, not a nuance was lost. 
Diana Hawfield gave a virtuoso 
·performance as the disembodied mouth of Not I. With Ms. Ellis again in the shadqws--this time literally--she delivered a monologue second to none in the versatility it demands of the actress who renders it meaningful (or meaningless, as you will). With plot, character, action and setting reduced to the "ultimate," the careful control of the dorector again allowed th.,e play to have a tremendous impact, as the attention· of the audience was even more radically concentrated than in the preceeding works. 
One always takes a risk in producing a Beckett play; in produc­tng on at ND-SMC that risk, for whatever reasons, seems greater. That Beckett still finds "a voice," still "goes on" at all is in itself' heartening; that his voice is ren­dered so flawlessly is certainly :>ecasion for enthusiastic applause. 
Kathie O'Gorman 

The "Second Scene" productions 
being seen on the ND-SMC sta8e 
attempt to push theatre beyond tts 
tradittonal modes. Both new forms 
and new sources can be explored to 
enrich and expand the_ theatrical 
resources of the communtty. Molly's 
Song, performed last weekend in 
O'Laughlin Hall, is a notable experi­
ment which, with few reservattons, 
succeeds admirably. Director Doug 
Kreitzberg's adaptation ofJoyce has 
turned Molly Bloom's monologue 
into an imaginatively-staged, fluidly­
acted soliloquy. 
As Molly, Mary Link is a surprise. 
One pictures-MoJly as dark-haired, 
forty, blowsy, buxom, senlsual. Mary 
Link is blond, half Molly's age, 
small, almost frail looking. Yet she 
is Molly beca,use she embraces the 
range of Molly's character--her an­
ger, jealousy, frustration, sorrow, 
erotiotsm, sense of humor. Just as 
Molly's soliolquy, which intermin­
gles and confuses events and time, 
fuses all her lovers into a sinsle 
lover, so the daringly effecttve 
casting of Link takes Molly beyond 
an individual character and trans­
forms her .into Everywoman. 
The only weakness in Ms. ,Link'!'l 
performance is her tendency to 
smooth out the transitions between 
her moods so much that it is difficult 
to grasp the change in mood unit! 
she is well into it. Perhaps this flaw 
is a result ofstaging the soliloquy in 
a dream or half-dream setting which 
may be m~sconstrued to contain no 
dramatic fluctuations in mood. The 
vivid reality of dreams would indi­
cate the opposite response. 
The dream setting of the play is 
achieved by Maureen Ulicny's set; 
dear plast1c sheets hang up-and­
down-stage to give the impression of 
the set's being hung in a hammock. 
Within that frame the only objects whose shapes are not modified by the plastic covers are a wash stand and basin and a chair to which Molly frequently returns. These objects are the solid focal point of the dream, though viewed from one angle, the chair seems to be disintegrating. 
The multi-colored lighting reflected off the plastic makes the boundaries of Molly's world even more fluid. 1'Even the audience, seated on chairs or lying on cushions within the sweep of the hammock, becomes part of her dream, as she is part of ours. The music which introduces the play, Eric Satie's "Through the 
Looking Glass," and that which 
closes it, Beethoven's "Pastoral 
symphony,'' prepare the audience 
for entry into Molly's world and 
joyfully move us beyond it. 
Molly's Song, an eighty-minute 
soliloquy which captures the heart of 
an extraordinary character, is an 
impressive . achievement which de­
serves the support and commenda­
tion of the ND-SMC community. 
Judith Zaccaria 
Features 
Friday, November 7, 1980 -page 11 
LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD 
A Futile Gesture 

Life is full of rather futile ges­tures, but no gesture is so useless as one when nobody knows how silly you're being. My futile gesture of the week is that I'm giving up drinking for the duration. "You're giving up drinking what?'', you may well ask, "and how long is the duration for which you'll be suffer-· in~ your thirst?" Why, I'm _giving up dnnking Manhattans, whtch is all the liquor I ever drink. I'll not touch another drop--with the help of God-· until after Ronald Reagan has left the White House. 
I remember a dark morning in 1932, when I was a child, and there was a phone call from my father, saying that Franklin Roosevelt had been elected President. It was threatening news for us, a Republi­can family living in Maine; and the window shades were kept drawn until well after noon, as though the house were in mourning. I didn't know much about presidents; but I remember looking at Hoover's pic­ture in the newspaper, asking my mother if presidents wore robes likes kings did. I was disappointed when she said that presidents wore neither robes nor crowns; though I think in later years some of those Maine Republicans were fearful that Roose­velt would make himself king. I can 
With a history comparable to an Italian train behind it, The Stunt­man's final arrival on the market­place is one of the better debuts in filmdom this year. 
First conceived by producerI direc­tor Richard Rush, the final product bears little resemblance to the book of the same name. At first, Rush was alone in his enthusiasm. Finally, seven years and many successful films later, he finally secured independant financing from shopping center developer-turned movie mogul Melvin Simon (My Bodyguard). Production was com­pleted in 1978, and Rush spent all of 1979 attemptin~ to locate a distribu­tor for it. Studto after studio turned him down claiming that the film was too unusual, that it couldn't be categorized along traditional lines (ala comedy, western, mushy love story). Rush defiantly tested his film in a number of markets and armed with excellent audience reviews, Rush ventured forth to the stodgy executives in Hollywood and presen­ted his results. The outcome? Twentieth Century Fox picked up The Stun/man and it is scheduled to break nationally this week. 
What kind of film causes this kind of controversy? A film unlike any you have ever seen. Viewing the movie is a veritable roller coaster ·· ride for the senses. 
In the beginning, we see a scruffy man of unknown origin suddenly fleeing from some police types. This sets up a breakneck pace that ~ontinues throughout the ftlm. 
still see myself, a little guy in p.j.'s standing m a darkened 'hallway, looking at the phone, realizing that something terrible had happened that threatened the security of birthdays, Christmases, and after­noons made pleasant by sugar cookies. 
I remember when Roosevelt closed the banks. As I understood it: if you had money in the bank, you couldn't touch it, because Roosevelt wouldn't let you. What was even more outrageous, if you were a business man like my father and you had written checks to pay bills the checks were no good and couldn't be cashed, and you had to find other money to pay your bills with. Of course all the other money was also in banks, and the banks were closed. I was only a child, but I understood that the closing of the banks ruined my dad; for the next nine years, I never saw him when he wasn't worried about money. One thing you never did in those years of my childhood, was to leave lights burn­ing in rooms that weren't being used; and you never used a 100-watt bulb when a 40-watt bulb would do just as well. I sat in a lot of dark rooms when I was a kid. I asways blamed the darkness on Roosevelt. 
I remember the repeal of Prohibi­tion. there was a big parade, where 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
appointing myself as a moral minor­ity?--should be the chief mood of the Christian, and the Gospel teaches us to care for the shabby, the unattrac­tive, and the dispossessed, as though their needs were the needs of the Lord Himself. 
You can't set back clocks to fifty years ago, when welfare was the business of the churches and the poorhouse, without the intervention of government. What Roosevelt was doing, of course, was making pro­gress; and the distresses of Republi­cans like my father were part of the historical process out of which better times are born. 
I don't know if the President-elect will set back clocks, or not. He is a good man, and I wish him well. But I wonder what the country would be like today if he had been elected, rather than Roosevelt, in 1932. 
I can set back my own clock, though. My father lived dry under a Democratic president, and I can live dry under a Republican one. I can live a Methodist's code with a Catholic's thirst, as a kind of penance for the sins of my party. 
It's a futile gesture my dad would have liked. It would probably make more sense to him than wearing crepe on my hat because the moral maJority has taken over the White House. 
REEL REVIEWS 
'Stuntman '--Daringly Different 
During his flight he has a bizarre encounter with an antique Packard that becomes a key focal point later on. The next scene has him stumbl­ing into a movie production com­pany. To say the plot thickens is a fluid understatement. The film takes on more levels then a retirement everyone got drunk. Even the fire­
men's horses were drunk, so it was 
said; and iniquitous places called 
cocktaillbunges opened up. My dad 
was a Methodist, and Methodists 
never drank, and didn't think that other people should be allowed to drink, either. But Roosevelt allowed Americans, and even the firemen's horses, to be degraded by drink. Roosevelt, in our house, was consi­dered a very wicked man. Only Catholics and Jews didn't think Roosevelt was wicked. they liked oosevelt; the fact that they liked him proved what kind of man he was. 
This morning, when I woke up, nearly fifty years later, I knew I had been dreaming of that darkened house on the morning after Roose­velt's election. I remembered the old doubts that I had felt as a child, because it was the morning after an , election, and the shape of the world was going to be changed. I am afraid for the world that is afraid of itself. I am uneasy about having a president who has been elected by fundamen­talist Bible groups, who insist it would be a sin to vote for the Democratic candidate. I am afraid of the zeal of Christians who over­simplify the truth by claiming that God wants what they want, citing chapter and verse as proof. Compas­sion, and not moral indignation, I think, --and how can I insist, without 
condo in Florida. The central charac­ter! Camero':, (played by Steve Radsback) hnds himself in the emp~oymen~ of the film companies f!!antacal director name Eli (bril­hanty performe~ by Peter O'Toole). Soon Cameron Is cau~ht up in the m~vie's production which adds a real 
untque twist. We find ourselves 
watching a film within a film. At 
times you aren't sure if you're 
watching a scene from the movie 
Cameron is making, or a scene from 
the movie you went to see. 
The Stuntman on one hand is a 
study ot paranoia. Cameron is pur­
sued by the law for a crime that's 
unknown to the viewer. He's con­
cerned about Eli, wondering if the 
loony director is trying to knock him 
off. 
For the viewer with baser instincts, 
the film is a fast-paced cacophony of 
stunts, including men prancing on 
airplanes, and rooftop chases. The 
movie provides a behind-the-scenes 
view of film-making and all the 
sleazy scenes of Hollywood (the kind 
you read about in National Enqui· 
rer). For closest philosopher'> , the 
film is an allegory of man's stubborn 
search for Truth. Cameron spends 
most of the time unsure of reality, 
like the audience. 
Essentially, there's something for 
eve·ryone, although I issue a warning 
to those with airheadish tendencies, 
all the sneaky plot twists might crash 
their brains. For the normal person, 
though, the movie is a delightful !experience that confuses the view­ers, but doesn't leave one frustrated, since in the end everything comes into focus. 
On the surface "The Stunt Man" is 
whimsical, but deeper down is a 
movie that stays with one after 
leaving even the parking lot. 
Ryan Ver Berkmoes 

Campus 
FRIDAY, NOV. 7, 1980 
•1 p.m. -workshop, 
stress management, rooml' 400, counseling center 
• 
5:15 p.m. -mass and supper, bulla shed 

• 
7 p.m. -debate, irish invitational, library aud. 

• 
7,9,11 p.m. -film, "la cage aux folies" engr. aud. 


SATURDAY, NOV. 8,1980 
•6:30  p.m.  fi1m,  
"ullassa  piracigal",  library  
aud.  

• 
8:30 p.m. -event, a meeting of the moose so­ciety, specified location 

• 
9 p.m. -nazz, mark davis -tricks, danny on the guitar 

• 
11 p.m. -nazz, jazz with pisazz, "forecast" (as­sorted songs) 

SUNDAY, NOV. 9, 1980 

• 
1 p.m. -open house, the premier of the snite museum for the masses 

• 
1 p.m. -meeting, chess club, la fortune rath­skellar 

• 
2 p.m. -mass, moreau seminary, spans. friends of the handicapped & of rarche. 

•6:30, 
9:30 p.m. ­movie, "othello", to be in· the engr. aud, or not to be 

• 
8 p.m. -concert, fall choral, little theatre SMC 


MBA 
Fair 
to be held 
Monday from 8:30 a.m.­4:45p.m., the Placement Bureau will sponsor an "MBA Mini­Fair", in which the following graduate schools of business will hold infor~ational sessions for students: Boston, Chicago, Cornell, Case Western, Purdue, Indiana (SB), Loyola (Chicago), Southern California, Tulane and Vanderbilt. 
Individual or small group ses­sions with school representatives will last 25 or 50 minutes ac­cording to schools' preferences as indicated on sign-up sheets.· Students should sign up for! appointments at the Placement1 Bureau, Room 213 Administra­tion Building or in the ballroom • of the LaFortune Student, Center. 
~-~-------------------------~--·­
\ 
Friday, November 7, 1980 -page 12 
Molarity 

Peanuts 
BUT WH't'? DON'T L{OU
'(OU WANT PERMISSION 
LIKE Tf.IE 6REAT OUTDOO~ •
TO 60 INTO TOWN? 
DON'T L(OU LIKE CAMPING UNDER THE STARS? 
ACROSS 26 Passesby 51 Fast one on 12 Show host 1 Scoff 28 Peaceful the road 13 Is abun· 5 Copycat 31-Flow 54 Danube's dant 9 Ancient 32 Sts. tributary 19 Indian 
French king 33 Riverin 55 Conger weight 14 Father Arizona 56 English 21 Wlnecask of Seth 35 Carroll's cattle 25 Implores15 City In Imaginary breed 27 Ofthe ltalla animal 58 Covered western 16 "What's 39 Main point with hoar· hemispherein-?" 40 Sluggard frost 28 Heroic tale 17 Under· 42 Stratford's 62 Frugality 29 Wicked garment river 65 Central 30 Remainder 18 Money sent 43 Communion part 31 Kills 
20 Kind of table jury 45 English 22 Jackie or river 
James 46 Racing 23 Muffin distance 24 Applies 47 Melodies pressure 49 Stylus 
'\ Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
2 Not working 51 Old Irish IBATI 3 Lure clans
IR E 
If 
4 NewYork 52 Evita
lA 
M: A 
5 Timetable 53 Runaway
P: 
abbr. towed 6 Verses 54 Quechuan 7 Austen 57 Lulu
t 
novel 59 Burrowing 
8 Creates animal IT disturbance 60 Important1-lA lA 9 Snoozes periods
s IR IG IE 
10 Literary 61 Fender mark 
I E IAIMIM 
Items 63 Neckline
N A .AIM 
11 Spasms of shape
.NIA 
distress 64 Before 
1117/8 
Pinocchio's Pizza Parlor open SUN. 4:00-11:00 watch Georgia Tech on our big screen Game Special $2.00 pitcher $.40' mug 
emmons
1
n  s  
Beer Specials Every Nite­ 
~~o'b  1  8:00to 9:li0$.25Mug_  
~4Y"'~.._".#  l  juniper  $1.25  Pitcher  
~  ~...----1  
~  

------------------~-----------------­
12.00of/I.HIY 1 ll.OOoffany
I
LarKe Pi%%11 SmallPina
'
------------------~-----------------­
Michael Molinelli 

~E TEAM IS GOING TO 
Gf£0RG/,A,; DEVINE. IS S£NDIN~ ME To F"ARGq 

Charles M. Schulz 
THERE'S MORE TO LIFE TI-IAN DISCO AND ROOT BEER! 
The Daily Crossword 
© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd.lnc. All Rights Reserved 

·-~-STuDENTSENAri--f: · 
t WILL EXIST! -t t 
t t t 
t t t 
t You overwhelmingly demonstrated t t tyour approval -now continue your t t tsupport by running for representative t t tof your district (look for district break-t t tdown on posters in your halls and t t tlocations off-campus.) t t 
f MANDATORY MEETING f t t t for those interested: t t f f MONDAV, NOVEMBER 10, 8:00 f t t t SECOND FLOOR LaFORTUNE f t
LL______________lJ 
66 Sun helmet 67 Closeby 68 A King 69 Showscom 70 Eagle 71 Cozy place 
DOWN 1 Catch one's breath 

34 Come between 
36 Greedy 
37 Bun 
38 Legjoint 
41 Camera eye 
44 More reddish 48 Require 50 Cup handle 

The Observer Friday, November 7, 1980 -page 13 
320 jUniors lotteried 
BoUJl gatne yes, Fish Bowl no
into basketball bleachers 
ATLANTA, Ga.-Tomorrow afternoon in Grant Field, the Catfish will try to do what the Boilermakers, Wolverines and Hurricanes have failed to do-stop Notre Dame's crunching ground attack. 
If the cost of fish here is any indication, the Notre Dame players had best keep their helmets on. Prices and demand are up and so are the natives. 
Two years ago, of course, Vagas Ferguson ran for 255 yards to lead Notre Dame to a 38-21 victory over Georgia Tech. For their efforts, the Irish were rewarded with all the Filet of Fish sandwiches they could eat. It would seem that Ferguson's record-setting performance would have-convinced the rabid1Tech fans that their fish­flinging didn't have much effect on the game's outcome. 
And last season's narrow 21-13 Notre Dame victory certainly couldn't be construed as rur.ning up the score, an arguement used in 1978 after the Irish had thrashed Tech 69-14 the previous year. 
But according to the grapevine, the Tech fans 
have been warming up their pitching arms for the 
last couple of weeks now, in preparation for an· 
encore performance. 
Georgia Tech comes into the game 1-7, and the 
YellowJackets are literally a wreck. They couldn't 
stop the Irish with a barage of fish and whiskey 
bottles two years ago, so you would think they'd 
try something else. 
This has presented quite a problem for the 
brilliant thinkers of the Deep South. It's a delicate 
situation. After all, they can't just bring shotguns 
into Grant Field and blaze away at the Irish like 
they were hunting pheasant. 
They could throw rocks atJim Stone, but that's 
not real imaginitive, and besides, it lacks class. You 
see, there's a real art to this sort of thing. 
In fact, tomorrow's game is the biggest topic of 
discussion in these parts. While whetting my 
whistle in a local watering hole, I happened to 
overhear a couple of old-time Georgia Tech fans 
talking about their plans for the game... ' 
Craig 
Olval 

"WellJessie, them Irish is coming back to ~own 
Saturday, and they gota pretty fair team. What are 
we aimin' to do?" 
"I don't rightly know, Earl. We throwd all that 
fish at'em last time, and that didn't work. The <•nly 
thing that happened then was I had to go huncry 
for a week. How are we gonna stop 'e;n?" · 
"You got me. The thing that I can't figure . .,a 
know, is that they're always so darn good. I me.111, 
we always get the biggest, meanest and dumht ~t 
boys in the entire county, and they still whup us 
every year." 
"You're right. And them boys at Notre Dallll..', 
they're supposed to be intelligent. I hear they en n 
go to class." 
"Yea, but they got all those fancy new cars aJ•.: 
nice-lookin' women up there." 
"Uh-uh, Earl. You know them Catholics. The· 
wouldn't try to pull anything like that. I heard the; 
have to go to church everyday and turn out th; 
lights at ten every night." 
"Lights? You mean they don't use candles up there?" "No you idiot. Anyway, what are we goin' to do at the game?'' "I dunno. Maybe we could throw firecracke~s at 'em. Do you know how to use matches?" ' 
"Uh-uh." 
"Well, I guess.that shoots that idea." 
"I got it! I got it!" 
"What?" 
"We'll throw fish!" 
"You moron, we did that last time. Get a clue!" 
"I know, I know. That's why it's such a good idea. They'll never think we're dumb enough to do the same thing twice in a row." 
During the summer allocation of season basketball tickets, the high demand for lower arena seats resulted in a lottery among theJunior class to determine seat location. A listing of Junior students who have been assigned to the bleachers (and will be receivig an $8 refund) appears below. Juniors should check with the ticket office (7354) if there is a problem 
regarding their seats. 
Ahern, Jane E. Dooley. Jam~s P. Amato, Carrie-Dooley. Patric:k K. Anden1, Mark). Dou~therry, Pntric.:k Anderson, An(hony R. Dowlin~. J ,,.eph J. Anzek, MkhaeiJ. Drouillard, Thomas Atwell, Everetl M. Dw\·er. Paula ~t.uit: Hunu:chinl, f.dJ~:Ilrdo Dwyt·r. WilliumJ. Barba, Gahriel I. Eil'ht·lbt•rlo!er. Tom Barron, Daniel). Elc:horn, Gury 1.. Harron, WtlliamJ f.lliot, C.arol\'n E. H01utiRIA, Susan M. Emmn. Mau~et·n L. Hcnut·hrsne, Rich11rd F.n~ro. Stephen Ht•audlne. Robert F. F.mrd. Brian Edw~trd Becmnn. Chrit~tnphN Ernb:ri, St·on Thumn:ri Hennen, Robt·rt J hu.::ct>ndn, Mary E. llit-hl. William Ftlirdoth. Senn F. Riondi, Kilthy R11e halloo, Donna Marie Rnt'!it'n, I'Ncr V. Fallon, Jcromr: n. Bolhtl\, Bcrnndette Ft1rr, Kathlet.'llJ. Ht,llu. Jacquelint' htvret. B.trham J. 1\oylt•, Rrinn P. Ft·rmin. Rohert J. Hrud\'. Timothv K. Ft'rn11ndt.•s. Knren f-1. Bnad~·. Thornn.s P. fuz. William R. Hra'lisMd. D11Vid Fot•hrt•nholt'h, Jo llra.,el. Rkhnrd T. l:orrino. Ronnld N. Urown. Tvlt·r Adam Frt:t•mon. John A. uu,·kler. i.nwrt.•nt'l' c.. Frerkh, Randnll B. HuaynRki, Timothy Frot:tS<.·her. Paul M. Bullt"it, Roht·rt C:. FuiJ!imti, John 1\unn·. Juhn C. (~11les, Chllrlt•s C:. Burton, Midult'l 1>. ( ;~~r..tc..rro, stt·pht·n .J. C1llahnn. David .J. <iurinc1. Damh1n Jtlhr Cnllalum. 1'1mothy M. ( ;itr,•in. M;trtin J. Cunphell. Mi<·hnol J. (ft•md, (icmlon Jtlhn 0111ino. Anthon\' C. (ic.·rnrd. Tt·rt'sn M. C11ntc:r. Rohl'rl J. Gt·ro. lkbomh Ann C01puto, jo!'!c.•ph A. Glt•eson, AnJrc.·w J. Carm•ll, RkhilrU M. <rore, Mikt• Dean Cnron, P;aul Hiarlnw (ioodt.·.Jamc.·~ B. ( Jt:ot·v. Donald M. {iork;a, C'hri.stopht•r C1ulfidd. Joseph F. (ir.assev. Gun· Todd Coc.•n. Mnr,L\nret (Jri!-iWl;ld. Sw.;nn S. Coffey, Stt•pht•n). Grof!;tn, MM~' Pat CoiHm~. Ali'\n C. Cirm:it·r. Patrit'k 1.. Collin", K&tthlcc.•n M. (Jurroln. Rit'harc.l A. Coont•y, Ruht·rt Ciuz1.i. AOl!.t'la C. Corht•tt, C'l1thl'fint· H1H kctt, hnnc.i"' K Curcv. J.ant·t l.~nn H.allitl!.;tn, Brinn 1\1. Co"'rdlo. Alkt' M. H11re. Tv Chril'ri:tn CmHtnc\', Erin E. llart;eclf. Thom11S (. Cou:it•, Rnht•fl M flar\'~\'. K.uhlt·t·n ~. Cn·w~. H.oslvn ll.tthaw,w. Willhun M. C:rnnm. Rohc:rt J. llt•ttlt•\', i>ara it'k J. ( ·unnt•cn. M;~rk .J;Irnc.•s llt•nness\', )nst·ph J. 
Cutll'f. l..urv P1tul flt·~s. thoma~ .hlmt•s 
Kopp, Michael). Korzent:cki. Paul M. Kotek. jltmes M. Krebs, Mkhael D. Krulijlcl. Kevin G. Krupa. Da\'id John Kilku:•kie, Kathleen Kunkel. Kellv R. Kuntavunish.' Mark A. Kurtz, Jeffrey LlBounty. Mary K. l.ack. Elaine D. L1lrmomn. John K. L1rscn, l.nnn• A. l.liURhlin, Ruben .J. l.au~hlin. Vinn·nt Lnwlt·r, Peter T. l.eah\', Kt•ll\' Maum l.eisin~. Milrk Dnvid l.inbet:k. c:onsfllnl't' f.ill\'. MMk Fmnt'is l.inW. Jnmt·• Joseph l.isowski. Jl'ffrey M. l.nchtefeld, E. A. l.ut·ero, Prudcndo C.. MoKor, John Eu~enc M.1donill. Joseph F. Mollnkt·r. Clnvton R. Mallov. Su1.z;me M. J\lalo~ey. M;artin.J. Manfrt·d. Lee Edward Mnrgt•r, Ann Marie M1trsh,all. Adrit·nnt· Motrtin, John Gerard MotSl'i\fi, Thonuts F. Massaro. Jost'ph T. Mattc.-i. O:wid M;t7.7.11t'l'lln. Paul (i. McCiou~hlnn. John W. McClure. James J. 
~kF.nery. Tinwth~ J. 
t\-k(inni~-tlt.·. Patrkk Mc:Cmrh. John M. 
i\kfi-ror~'. Judith Mt:Kt•rn,tn, Man• K. 
i\kN;uniHil, Kt•,;in T. Mc.·hoh. Pt·rn' Allen Mt·rwld. Ernest John Mt•rlm·k. John .J. Milli~an . .John.J. Mikulski. Mit'ha<·l A. Monroe. Mark C. Moonl:'y, Jamt•s Brian Moore. John Edward Mort•no. Rubt·n P. 
Phimay,Hhin, V:m1tt 
Poknri, Peter]. 
Pristcr, Timothy 
Quinlan, Michad D. 
Redin~otton, Jnmes C. 
Reed. Ronald Mymn 
Re~-toni, Joe A. 
Rdder. Patrice C. 
Rkhev. Mark W. 
Robe;ts. Jumes 
Robison. Thomas). 
Ross, Christina M. 
Rug~til•ro, Mosesto P. 
Rvan. Jt'ifrey D. 
Sagnnlia, Mi11.ud J. 
Saltt·r. Henry R. 
Snvart•st•. Stepht.·n 1.. 
St·holl'fer. John 1.. 
St·hl'iher. M;tttht•w D. 
St·hmitt, Dotvid M. 
Schlesin~t·r. Thomn.s 
S(:hler, ThnmLtS C. 
St·hwt•iJ!er, Frederit' 
St·nka, Jnhn Lt."o 
Serio, Thomas G. 
Shnnk, Jr. Dnnald W. 
Sheridan, Elizabt•th 
Sherry. J:~nu·s G. 
Siler, St·ott W. Sinutri. Roht·rt D. Simko. O;arrvl B. Skinnt·r. G rt:~ory M. Sladek. Willi;tm l.t•e Shavil'k, Wlllion Sh1~a. Rnht.·n M. Sotis, WillilunJ. Sotft'k. Timoth~· Sp1tno, Stevt•n A. Sroor. Pt•tt• Alan Stephan. M;Htina M. Sulliv;m. Kellv Tasch, Chnrlt;sJ. 11wil, Paul Edward Tompson. Timothv .J. Tindl'll. Kc:vin E. Tmn·y. Dnu~-tlas A. Tminur. Matthew <1. Trt•st·h. Sarah E. Trum:m.J. Kell\' Twist, CArol Je:tn lTIIinuln. Mark'E. VnnAukt·n. Hugh VanJ {( )ust·n. P;ttricht Vcrfurth. Ruben C. Vcrv. Rnnotld Mark 

l>"AJ't».,tino, l.ouit' llilJ!t'r. Mit"ht·•tl B. MnrJ.!:IIl. C.hristc•pht·r Waiker. B;arhara Ann 
l>alv. Mit'hnel Juhn Hipskind, ~tnk). ' Morin. Monka Walsh, Edward V. Oamht•rf!, Kit'hard C'. llot•nm~t'r. Susan 1.. Mountain, Dil\'id). W:tsilc.·wski. Thtuna"' l>otUher. Ellt•n Annl· Hoclsdlt'r,J (ireJ.! Mulholland. Duniel Watscm, Anustnsiot M. Dil\'Cnpmt, John I·. HoJ!<tn. Willutm 1'. M ulloo. Mkhell< A. 't<!t•i!"Z. Kl'nnt•th Sent Il11vi~. M11 rk Euj.lt'nt· llomk. Hobert Allt·n Murphy. David Wl'ithnmn. Thomas P. ll;l\'ll\, Ruhc.•rtJ. llttward. l)ium.· M. Murph1·. Miles). Wdt·h, Mary Fmnn·~ Dt·1tn. Ridutrd A Inn lluher, Arthur F. Murt;tu~h. ThclllHtS Wekh, Mal;m K. llt.-n;tnc. Stt·ph;mic.· J;tt kson. John Kant• Mver~. Ha rbu m Annt· Wcllv. Elizabeth llt•):cntvt•, 1'hormts E. fm't't·.J<~mc.·J\M. N~l'-'ht•rf. Maurt·mt Wt':-;i, Kdl\' Ann l>doumttt•r. Nann• E. Kilrl. c;.rt·gory Sn1tt Na11.nr7.anski. Ah1n f. Whalt·n. ~tart in .J. 
I>t•murnl, Edward J.  Kt·alv, Mit'hael f.  N<nH·th. Jefl<·wy S.  Wicdt, Nil'h;ll'l A.  
Dt·rkn,JJIJllt'-"' T.  Kt•hoc..·. Cct:elin M.  Niedermt·yt·r, Jc.·nnnc:  Willamowski, John R.  
I>t-sih•11. Pt•tt:r A.  K<·ll1•, N.ml.'l' l'll<·n  Nye. Danit·l John  Williams. Picrn· 1..  
I>t·.,jnrdin. CIL·rnt.·nt  Kennt•dv. Ejwnrd R.  ( l'Brit•n. Scot Waltt•r  Wi111sntt. Allt·n R.  
Dieullh~o. Dnminn C.  Kennedy, Patrit·k Cl.  <l'Connor, Timmothy P. Wincmhcrg, l.t•Roy  
l>irht·n. Willinm P.  K~nnt.·y. l';ml Cmm.·  O'Dea, Jeffrey Allen  Wirlt•\', F.ilt·en M.  
l>h:IR, J>,,viJ Rohert  Kt•nny. Timothy R,  (lids, St·ott May  Wolf.· Ruth Ellen  
()obrow... kl, Marlt· M  Kt·rr, St·orr Fdwardl  Olson, Karen Marie  W~·k:a, Tht'odore A.  
Donnhuc, Rkhitrd F.  Kerwin, M~~r~· 1..  Pori!', Trndt' Lynn  YOun~. Roht•rt A.  
Dond,mvlll~. Ounj  Kirk, Rost.'lla Milr\'  Pt·dmza. M iJ!uel A.  Zarnpt•drcl,Jclm E.  
DonL·huc, Pt•lcr M.  KitliJtt•r. Frt·dt·ri<.:k  Pt·rt"z, Mark Louis  Z.mni, Timothy).  
!Jon<>kl, David).  Kloa..."i, RoJ.!:cr R.  Petras, GcclrJ!t.' jt1hri  Zeller. Marv Rita  
l>c~ncJVI10, John M.  Kullitz, John A.  Pfmcnhaut•r, Kurt P.  ZL·man, John Edward  
Donovan. Patrick M  Kopnitkv. Mary l.ea  Philippis, Timt1lcon  .Zmud1.inski. Donald R  


(confirmedfrom paf{e 16) 
Stone is averaging 105.0 yards­per-game on the ground, while Carter's mean stands at 166.3. 
"It really goes without saying that Notre Dame is a tremen­dously talented football team," said Tech's head coach, Bill Curry, "a team that is very deserving of its high national ranking. They are big, strong and fast and their defense has been especially tough over the past three games. They are probably as good a team as we've played this iear and it will take a tremendou'Jeffort on our part to defeat them." 
Yet Devine, who boasts a 51­14-0 record at Notre Dame, is determined not to let that number-one ranking or his team's success of late hamper the Irish. 
"Being 7-0 and number-one is a great start, but really that's all it is," said Devine. "Being number-one really doesn't mean a thing until the season is. over, and that's the time to enjoy it. 
Right now we have to con­centrate on Georgia Tech, or the same thing will happen to us that happened to UCLA at Arizona or Alabama at Missis-I . sippi State. We know what they can do, and we don't plan to let down. We've worked too hard to let the number-one ranking get in our way now. We have to do our thing, we can't get all choked up, nor can we be over­confident." The Irish, number­one in a regular ,season Associated Press football poll for the first time since 1 ~ v6, possess a 24-4-0 series edged over the Yellow Jackets and a 1 11-2 slat~ on Tech's Grant Field. 
Despite the odds, despite the ranking and despite history, Dan Devine is weary ofGeorgia Tech and does not plan on letting the Yellow Jackets spoil the 1980 season. 
"My team lost the number­one ranking some 20 years ago in 1960 when I was head coach at Missouri. We were number­one going into our last game, and lost to a great Kansas team. 
, , , Jeers 
continuedfrom /Jaf{e 16) 
players score," said Buetow. "That is surely a positive sign. Defensively, if we can continue to get the excellent goaltending we received against Michigan, and more improvement by the rest of our skaters, I believe we can reduce our goals against considerably." 
Wreck 
I don't want that to happen to this ballclub. I think I'm 20 years smarter. 

art-muslc-drama-wrltlng-archlt.,.ctur_,. -organizational meeting-
SENIOR ARTS FESTIVAL 
-cested\\ \C\te  room 2-D Lafortune  
toe ;f.~\otlS  (acroa, from ballroom)  
7:00pm  SUNDAY~NOV. 9  

---------~--~-------~----------~~ 
The Observer Friday, November 7, 1980 -page 14 · 
Irish spell relief L-E-U-K-~E-N 
' by Armand Kornfeld Sports Writer 
Jeff Leuken is often hidden from the view of Notre Dame followers. He is the second string defensive end, has been for the past two seasons, so his obscurity may be understandable. But it is fairly safe to believe he will be thrust into the limelight some­time before he completes his years with the Irish. 
Leuken was a top prospect out of high school, being recruited by all the Big 10 schools, most Big 8 schools, and several from the Ivy League. He chose Notre ,_ Dame because it combined a , great academic program with an , equally impressive athletic pro­
gram. 
"Notre Dame just had every­thing. I didn't want a pure football school like Ohio State or Nebraska. But neither did I want only academics. Notre Dame combines the two. Besides, this is just a very special place. I knew campus," says Leuken. 
His freshman year was disap­pointing as he broke his ankle and missed the entire season. Since then he has worked hard to improve and has prompted the defensive line coach, Coach Yonto, to say, "Jeff has impress­ed me with his diligence and where-with-all. Right now he's very important to us, and if needed could step in for either Zettek or Hankerd. His versatil­ity is a real asset." 
Leuken was redshirted his freshman year and must decide whether or not to play an extra year. Coach Yonto is hoping he does, and Leuken is "leaning towards it right now." There are, however, other considerations involved besides football. 
"Ifi do decide to play an extra year, I can take some courses which may help me later. I'd like to get my CPA and go on to graduate school for an MBA," he explains. 
Nevertheless, football is an 
that the minute I walked on , important part ofJeff Leuken's 

' Father John Nicola_ speaks on 
Exorcism, Satan and Demonology 
November 10, 1980 -Monday­
8:30 Library Auditorium 
free admission sponsored by SU Academic Commission 

THE MUSIC BOX 120 W. Mishawaka Ave. Mish., IN (256-5440) 

Lots to see at the best new club in town, with the best entertainment around: 
with Straight Flush Nov. 6-Alex DeGrassi with Rick Walters Nov. 7 & 8 -The 3rd Street 
Sliders Nov. 12 -· Free Spirit Nov. 13 -· Jeff Lorber Fusion 
with Free Spirit 
Nov. 14 -New grass Revival witb Pink & the Naturals 
life. He sees it as a challenge and believes it has helped him learn to utilize his time more effective­ly. He believes the Irish's success this year is built on the _in­tangibles. 
"The team is much closer this year than at any other time since I've been here. We have great leaders in ou:r captains, and they have helped us set and realize some lofty goals. Right now we're taking it one game at a time-concentrating hard in practice and giving each game our full effort and attention." 
The years at Notre Dame have treated Leuken kindly. He has established himself well both 
academically  and  athletically.  
And  looking  back  he  speaks  
slowly.  

"It has been a great challenge for me here, both on and off the field. I find I have to keep my mind on what I'm doing all the time, but I like that." 
The world could use a few more Jeff Leukens. 
, , . hfarriers· 
(continued from page 16 
the top finisher for Notre D1.me 
in the race which was won by 
Penn State. 
The next action for the Irish 
after Saturday will be the NCAA 
District IV championships to be 
held at the University of Illinois 
• • . Briefs 
(continued from page 15} 
The interhall six-mile run will be 
held on Saturday, November 15 at 10 a.m. The course will be entirely on the Notre Dame campus utilizing the golf course, lake trails and campus roads. Notre Dame undergraduates, graduates, faculty and staff may enter. Separate divisions for men and women in each category (undergraduate, graduate and faculty/staff) will be set up. Ifyou wish to run, you must come to the interhall office (C-2) in the ACC, to complete the insurance and entry forms before Wednesday, November 12. 
Austin Carr, a former No. 1 draft choice of the Cleveland Cavaliers out of Notre Dame, was traded to the Washington Bullets for "undisclosed future considerations," 
:the expansion Dallas Mavericks announced yesterday. Carr is a 10-year veteran of the National Basketball Association. 
Dallas Green, the gruff, get-the-job-done skipper of the world champion Philadelphia Phillies, said yesterday he doesn't envision a major shakeup in 1981, but hinted that none of the starters' jobs is ·safe either. Green, appearing at a news conference to confirm reports that he had signed a one-year contract to manage the National League club next season, said one thing was certain: "My personality is not going to change. I'll still be the same pain in the rear end that I am now." The46­year-old Green was named manager of the Phillies in August 1979, replacing Danny Ozark, a mild-mannered man who led the club to three division championships, but never could capture a pennant. Green's no-nonsense approach to the game-his use of ambitious youngsters in place of pouting veterans, his refusal to pamper solid gold egos-irked some of the club's surstars. But it got results, with some of the Phillies bickering all the way to the World Series. 
The ski team of Notre Dame and St. Mary's will be holding a very important meeting on Tuesday, Nov. 11. The details of the Christmas break training camp will be discussed including the itinerary and costs. Bring your $50 deposit with you if you are planning to make the trip. Ifyou are still unsure, come anyway. Also, the ski team will scrimmage the Holy Cross 
in Champaign, Ill. on Nov. 15. 
soccer team on Sunday at 11 a.m. behind the ACC. 
No TD in 12 quarters 
Defense comes ofage 
ATLANTA--Pittsburgh Steeler coach Chuck Noll 
said it best: 
"Offense wins ballgames, defense wins champion­
ships." 
And if there are to be any green and gold rings passed 
out around here in January, somebody, somewhere will 
have to take off his fedora to the Notre Dame defense. 
Not that the offense hasn't been brilliant... 
But oh, that defense! 
The Irish have not yielded a touchdown in the last 12 
quarters and no one has run the ball over the Notre 
Dame endline since the last period of the Michigan 
State game, six.long weeks ago. 
"It's tough to ask more of a defense than we've gotten 
in the last few weeks," points out Dan Devine. "We've 
allowed an average of only 155 yards the last three 
weeks and that means someone is doing something right. 
Right now we're getting the kind of consistency we had 
hoped for." 
And prayed for. Not that the Devine and his 
braintrust were pessimistic about the stopping forces 
back in those dog days of August. But they knew they 
had some people to replace and they were aware of the 
relative inexperience of their replacements. 
"I have to be honest and say that I didn't expect we'd be this good," admits linebacker coach, George Kelly. I"We knew we had to depend on some young people. to do the job and right now those young people look hk~t /seasoned veterans." Young people like freshman defensive tackle, Tim 1 Marshall, who trails only Scott Zettek among the down 1 linemeninquarterbacksackswithseven(Zettekhas 10) 1 and tackles made with 32. Or his classmate, Stacey ' Toran, who has started every game since Michigan 

them either. Coach Kelly explains that Georgia Tech 
will show the Irish many variations on offense and that it 
will require intensity and concentration to stop them. 
"The biggest problem is that Tech is a multiple formation team," he points out. "They run basically a pro offense and they constantly change formations. They are not conservative and they like to isolate and get you in one-on-one situations as much as they can. 
"They can make the big play." 
The Irish have been preparing for the return ofinjured Tech quarterback, Mike Kelley, who has been sidelined since the first series of the TenAessee game with a shoulder sprain. Two years ago, as a freshman, Kelley riddled Notre Dame for 295 yards and a pair of scoring passes in a 38-21 Irish win. 
"Kelley is a good quarterback and we know that," says Coach Kelly. "He kept Tech in the game against Alabama earlier this year and we are fully aware of his ability. He has a lot of poise. He could cause some problems for us before the afternoon is over." 
Still it's hard to get excited to play a team that is 1-7 and lost to Duke 17-12 last Saturday. Yet, a quick glance at their schedule shows losses to the likes of Alabama, Florida, North Carolina, Tennessee and Auburn-not a pleasure jaunt down the primrose path, to be sure. Consider that, plus the probable return of 
I 
; State at cornerback and responded with 17 tackles and. quarterback Kelley, and tomorrow's game starts to look three passes broken-up. , like a bit more than an off-week sciimmage before "Needless to say, we've had our share of injuries," i Alabama. comments Devine. "Players like Steve Cichy, Kevin And you know Georgia Tech would love to beat the ; Griffith Don Kidd Tony Belden... But the younger Irish. It is not an understatement to say that such an 
I ' ' ! 
I 
guys have stepped in and held us together. occurance would make their season. Too bad Notre "We would not be where we are right now without 1 Dame cannot afford to be so generous. 1them." 1 You see, right now they have a little bit more at stake. 

Friday, November 7, 1980 -page 16
Sl'orts 
No. 1 Irish go for No. 8 
hy Betb Huffman 
. Sport.r Hditor number-one f~otball team. a combined 20-3 record right "Tech's record right now is now, and two of them were (;vorgia Tvch must be pray­extremely deceiving because of unbeaten until Saturday. After ing for a miraclv of it~: own the caliber of teams it has Notre Dame, they play a good played," says Dan Devine, who Navy team then unbeaten 
tonH>rrow as the Atlantic Coast owns a 5-1 lifetime record Georgia." Confcrvncc team hosts the top-against the Yellow Jackets. "I Last week Duke dumped ranked Fighting Irish at 1:30 think the last time the NCAA Georgia Tech 17-12 while the p.n1. EST. The Yellow Jackets, Lipdated the_strength of sched-Irish remained undefeated at 7­whn sport a poor 1-7 slate, will_ ules, Tech's was rated fourth 0 by dowining the Midshipmen trv to follow the examples ot toughest in the country. Three of Navy, 33-0. U(TA and Mississippi State by of their losses have come to The Ramblin' Wreck will be lwn>1ning thv season's thir.d Alabama, North Carolina and sparked this week by the return 
u:JJ~'!:1':::!'·~·,!:'<~>J±'::r:!::":!:!"~n~s:!::'·:r:!t:!:h!:<::·:!n~a:::t:!H::li~J::!:s=='!::;:!!<:;>r!:::!j:!::d~a=~a::n~d~th::;<~>~se~te:;'<!;'l!:!n~Js!::h~a=v~e= of the team's number-one quarterback, Mike Kelley. Kelley, who has been out the past three weeks with a shoulder injury, has completed
Harriers travel to B. G. 
39 of 87 passes for one touch­down in five games,In• Mflll /lllj/illmt this time in the season," says 
"He (Kelley) threw for about 
Sf'ortr Ir'rtl cr Piane. "We've had some attitud­
300 yards against us two years
inal problems that stem all the 
ago down there and he has been 
way back to our first meet.
The Notre Dame· cross the backbone of their offense,"
"This is a small meet with a lot
country squad will stray from says Devine.
less pressure. I think our attitude
home for the first time this Joining Kelley as the "major"
is vastly improved, and hopefully
weekend. The Irish will travel to offensive threats will be Tech's Bowling Grl'l'n, Ohio, to battle it will show on Saturday. The top rushers, David Allen and 
different course should be a plus
the Falcons and visiting Ronny Cone. The two backs
for us. The team is excited about
Northern Illinois. have combined to average just
ing and running in different
Head coachJoe Piane says that 85.5 yards-per-game rushing.surroundings.
this meet will serve as a baro­Tech's defense will have to 
"Up to now we've tried to
meter with which to measure the contend witb a pair of talented 
disregard times and concentrate
team's progress. "We've run Irish backs, namely Jim Stone 
on running as a team. We want
Bowling Green twice this year­and Phil Carter. Carter will be 
Debbie Romo Jigs in for shot in Irish loss to Tri-State last night. The Irish 
everyone to run in a pack, or as
at the Notre Dame Invitational making his first road trip since 
dropped the home ji'nale 15-9; 15-13; 16-14. 
dose <is possible," ends the sixth­
and the Central Collegiate Notre Dame's 26-21 win over Championships. They finished Michigan State on October 4.
year coach. The Irish will enter nine run­
better than us in both meets. If 
( wntirmed 011 page 13)
ners instead of the usual sevenwe can beat them on Saturday, it because of the size of the meet.
will show how much we've im­The roster for Saturday includesproved since that time in the seniors Chuck Aragon, John
season." 
Filosa, andJohn Riely; sophmores The Falcon distance program Carl Bicicchi and Tim Bartrand.
has always been one to reckon 
leers challenge Gophers 
Also included will be four fresh­
with, an-d this year is no ex­~. ception. All-Americans Dave men: Dan Walsh, Tim Novak, 
Andy Dillon, and Ralph Caron. 
' Wottle and Sid Sink are products
I this weekend against Minnesota," The No. 1 scorer, no less; i5 
of BGSU. This year's team is leJ The Irish squad saw action in kY Bricm Beglane said Irish coach Lefty Smith, Gopher wing Steve Ulseth, withtwo meets over fall break. The Sports lf!rti'er
I by Chris Kohler who finished whose team takes ·a 3-3 overall 16 points. Neal, a member oflast
team finished fourth among 22second in the Mid-AQlerican record into the series after de­year's Olympic team, is second Conference championships. teams at the Indiana Big State MINNEAPOLIS-Discon­
l feating Bowling Green Tuesday, with 15. Fourteen of those 
Other standouts include Steve meet which was won by Indiana. nect the Roseau connection!
I 
3-2. Notre Dame is tied for third points, believe it or not, areThe Hoosiers were led by in­That's the task the Notre
Hously and Chuck Pullom. in the WCHA with a 1-1 league assists. Younger brother Aaron
dividual champion Jim Spivey. Dame hockey team faces when itNorthern Illinois will be paced 
mark. has 11 while Erickson totals nine. 
by Greg Domantry and Don The top finisher for Notre Dame takes on the Golden Gophers of "Minnesota is a great scoringwas Carl Bicicchi with a time of Minnesota, the first place team inVolkev. 
~ 
the Western Collegiate Hockey team, as evidenced by that top Want more? 
I The. meet will be the first and 25:39. 
Association, tonignt and tomor­line," continued Smith. "We'll In last weekend's 9-4, 5c2In the Central Collegiate
~ onlv meet of this size during row here at the Williams Arena. be keying on them this weekend sweep of the Michigan W olver­
Championships run at Notre
I twio for the Irish. All of the The Roseau is as in Roseau, in an effort to stop their offense." ines, the Gophers bombarded
Dame on Oct. 25th, the home
others have involved 20-25 Minn. -hometown of the Sound strategy when you look Michigan with 101 shots. The
squad placed seventh among 13 
' 
teams. Broten brothers, Neal and at Minnesota's performance in its Roseau line accounted for five of 
teams. The Irish beat some
I "We're not going to do any­Aaron, and Bryan Erickson. The first four games. The Gophers the 14 goals-and Buetow con­
impressive teams however, in­
thing different for this meet. trio forms the top-scoring line are in first place in the WCHA siders that a sign ofteam balance. 
cluding the champion of the
\Ve'll pretty much key on for coach Brad Buetow's with a 4-0 record (5-0 overall).
National Catholic Meet,
Bowling G rcen. because if we Gophers. The Brotens and Erickson rank "We had eight different beat th.em, we'll beat Northern Marquette. Chuck ?\ragon was "We face a momentous task 2-1-4 in WCHA scoring. Illinois. It is good meet for us at (coflfifllll'd 011 page 14) (continued on page 13) 
1980  
Grid Picks -I North Carohna at Clemson North Carolin.1 State at Penn Stah! Illinois at Oh•o State Navy at Syracuse Oregon at UCLA Georgia at Florida Southern Cal at Stanford The Citadel at South Carolina Arizona at Washmgton · lo~Jisiana State at Alabama Northwestern at Michigan Arkansas at Baylor Houston at Texas Virgima Tech at Florida State Kansas State at Nebraska Notre Dame at Georgia Tech  Paul .1/u//ane.r 1-.'ditor-in-Chh:( 59-31 . .656 Heels by 12 lions by 7 Sucks by 17 Orangemen by 4 Bruins by 21 Gators by 1 TroJans by 10 Cocks by 21 Huskies by 6 Tide by 18 Spartans by 7 Razorbacks by 4 Horns by 10 Seminoles by 11 Huskers by 9 Irish by 40  Beth Huffman Sports Editor 6-1-.'!6 .. 71/ Heels by 10 lions by 6 Bucks by 12 Middies by 7 Bruins by 6 Dogs by 8 Trojans by 7 Cocks by 8 Huskies by 10 Tide by 20 Spartans by 3 Bears by 8 Horns by 2 Seminoles by 6 Huskers by 12 Irish bv 30  \lichad Ortman Assoc. Sports Editor 60-30, .667 Heels by 14 Lions by 10 Bucks by 35 Orangemen by 17 Bruins by 12 Gators by 3 Trojans by 9 Cocks by 16 Huskies by 12 Tide by 22 Spartans by 12 Bears by 3 Horns by 9 Seminoles by 20 Huskers by 19 Irish by 30  1\e//r Sui/iran ll'o;nen's Sp. Editor 65-25.. 722 rteels by 7 Lions by 15 Bucks by 30 Orangemen by 3 Bruins by 12 Dogs by 4 Trojans by 5 Cocks by 18 Huskies by 9 Tide by 12 Spartans by 17 Bears by 6 Horns by 4 Seminoles by 13 Huskers by 20 Irish by 24  Frank LaGrolla Sports Writer 60-30, .667 Heels by 6 Lions by 11 Bucks by 14 Middies by 1 Bruins by 21 Dogs by 16 Trojans by 10 Cocks by 10 Huskies by 7 Tide by 17 Spartans by 6 Bears by 2 Horns by 2 Seminoles by 11 Huskers by 20 Irish by 17  Craig Chra/ Sports Writer 59-31..656 Heels by 8 Lions by 13 Bucks by 50 Orangemen by 3 Bruins by 33 Dogs by 4 Trojans by 10 Cocks by 20 Huskies by 8 Tide by 40 Spartans by 6 Bears by 9 Cougars by 7 Seminoles by 13 Huskers by 22 Irish by 23  Brian Begla11e Spoils Writer 64-16, 0 711 Heels by 12 Lions by 10 Bucks by 14 Orangemen by 3 Bruins by 10 Dogs by 9 Trojans by 14 ·Cocks by 8 Wildcats by 3 Tide by 15 Spartans by 6 Bears by 7 Horns by 3 Seminoles by 10 Huskers by 17 Irish by 24  Bill Marquard Sports Writer 61-19, .678 Heels by 7 Lions by 7 Bucks by 13 Middies by 10 Bruins by 6 Dogs by 10 Trojans by 7 Cocks by 13 Huskies by 10 Tide by 7 Spartans by 10 Bears by 17 Horns by 13 Seminoles by 17 Huskers by 20 Irish by 23  G01:r Grassey Sports Writer 63-17, 0 700 Heels by 7 Lions by 29 . Bucks by 51 Middies by 5 Bruins by 11 Dogs by 3 Trojans by 23 Cocks by 37 Huskies by 17 Tide by 29 Spartans by 31 Bears by 1 Horns by 19 Seminoles by 13 Huskers by 61 Irish by 43  


