.r----.---------------.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·· ----------------------------------------, 
, , .NYCboatpeople-page 7 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1980 
Registration for all 

Riehle to announce vote drive 
• 

''Ground-beefcasserole'' --this is lunch?!? [photo by ] ohn Macor] 
Iranian Parliament preparesfor hostage debate 
(AP) Iran's parliament pre­pared to open debate today ~n rhe Amencan hostages amtd 
renewed calls for a U.S apo­logy and spy trials. A major Canadian newpaper said secret ne~otiacions for release of the 
52 ·Amencans have been under way for three months in an effort to solve the crisis befor the U.S. presidential elections. 
President Carter, speaking in Corpus Chrisn, Texas. said recent statemenrs bv Iranian officials ·'might very 'wee! lead ro resolution" of the lO-month­old crisis soon. It was not clear 

whether Caner had been m­formed by then of Iran's reiter­ation Monday that the United states' must apologize for past 
~rtions. 
said the regime has not dropped its demand that the United States apologize-a de­mand Carter has rejected in the past. · Iran's parliament, which as authority to decide what be­comes of the hostages, is to begin its debatd Tuesday, ac­cording to Iranian news media. 
. Islamic militants who seized the United States' Tehran em­bassy and its American staff last November 4 have called the embassy a "spy nest" and demanded the Americans be tried as spies. 
President J.bolhassan Bani Sadr has said he opposes such trials, but the Parhament, or Majlis, is dommated by funda­mentalist Moslems opposed to his moderate views. Kho­meini' s demand list also had failed to mention spy trials. 
By S11e Kelleher 
Student Body President Paul Riehle will an­nounce tonight a plan to register as many students as possible for the November 4 local ar.d national elections, doing so through deputy registrars and shuttle buses to downtown South Bend. 
As in past election years, StudentGovernment is faced with the task of obtaining easy access. to voter registration for its students. Customary procedures,as dictated by St. .Joseph County, have been to allow in-person registration through October 6. 
Registration through an on-campus deputy registrar is also allowed, but the deadline for this process is this Friday.Riehle claims these pro­cedures are inadequate for two reasons:First, although the time element allowed for in-person registration is fair, it is difficult for many students to get to city hall during the week. Second, registering through a Jt:puty registrar is "wholly inadequate," according to Riehle, in that each registrar is allotted only 50 registration forms, far too ft>w for the number of students who wish to 
register. Riehle says there is much reluctance ,)n 
the part of the county to amend these policie~;. 
In anticipation of these inconveniences,Riehlc will propose a service designed to alleviate these problems at tonight'sHall Presidents' CounCil meeting. Riehle plans to reat buses to shuttle students between campus and City 'Hall so that students may register in person and take ad­'(antage ofthe later deadline. An additional motive in implementing such a service is that, if .su-.:­cessful,the county will recognize the need to amend its policies and will act affirmatively. 
In the meantime, registration sponsored by theNotre Dame Student Lobby will take place in both the North and South dining halls from 5 to 6 p.m. 

Riehle encourages all students to register. He believes that student input is crucial and could make or break the future ofoff-campus life, which he perceives h) be the growing trend. All off­campus residents are reminded that there will be a meeting tomorrow night. Details will follow on the Riehle proposal and Wednesday's meeting in The Ob.rerver later this week. 
A complex problem 




The causes of recession 
by A. ]. Dregalla 
Recession is a major issue of our times. It is an economic state of being which seems to be a pervasive part of our society. It is also, however, something that very few people seem to really understand. 
The term "recession" has various definitions, but the two major areas of concern are the economic and political stand­points. to learn about these standpoints, we talked to sev­eral resident experts in these fields. 
Economically, says Prof. bob Borengasser, of the Business I Economics Department at Saint Mary's, recession has a very definite technical definition: "two successive quarters of ne~ative growth of the real (aajusted for price changes) Gross National Product, or in other words, six months of downrurn in our real output designates recession''. Boren­~asser' s definition is interest­m~ since, according to econo­mtc indicators, we have had only three definite months of downturn. The country is still in the-quarter that will determine the recessional status, and indicators are chat this quarter, when completed, may show a slight upturn. If this occurs, then according to Borengasser, "there will be no real recassion in 1980". However, lay people looking at statistics indicative of economic growth will still feel we are in a recession, and they have good reason to think so. 


FiCiii
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::; 
The real GNP rose as a rate of 
1. 2 percent in the first quarter of 1980, but fell at a rate of9.1 percent in the second quarter of this year. The term ''reces­sion" will not be used officially by gov't officials until there is downturn in the third quarter, but if, as Borengasser indi­cates, there is upturn, then we may have experienced the shortest recession on record. 
While all of the strictly economic aspects of recession are necessary to understand, it is obvious that hte side which evokes the most contraversy is the political side. Two major issues which our government has to deal with economically are inflation and recession/ unemployment. Historically, policy decisions intended to help one area almost inevitable harm the other area. This has been evident particularly dur­ing the past four years wtth the Carter Administration. ''What Career has been forced to do'', reports Charles Wilber, chair­man of the Economics Depart­ment at Notre Dame, "is walk a tight-rope, swaying back and 
forth from one problem to the /
other.'' This problem is due to the fact chat what are consi­dered true solutions for both these problems of inflation and recesston are so radical that they are politically unsound. Solutions for these .problems run the gamut from ' the con­servatives wanting to run a long, hard recession to try to squeeze out inflation, to the liberals wanting wage apd I?rice controls'', Wilber emphastzes, "so the President is forced into makin~ minor adfuscmencs. They JUSt trim government spending a very little to curve 
(continMd on page .3) 

In Washington, a more sub­dued Secretary of State Edmund S. Muskie said "it 
LaFollette speaks out ongenetics
would be a mistake to raise espectations" of a solution and By Michael Mader LaFollette said that the world is LaFollette said. 
chat attempts to neBotiate di­Staff Rt:porter left with two approaches to the While LaFollette admittedrectly or through thtrd parties future. "We can either go into a that genetic engineering canhave failed. 
Douglas LaFollette, speaking genetic age, or we-can move from have positive effects on humans, Omission of an often-stated to a group of 200 students and industrial exploitation to an most notably in eliminating apology demand from a list of South Bend residents last night entropic world view," LaFollette diseases such as Down's syn­
conditions Ayatollah Ruhollah in the Library Auditorium,de­explained, "but we cannot do drome and sickle-cell anemia,he Khomeini announced last 
nounced research into genetic both.'' was concerned with where we Friday had raised hopes in engineering and warned that the In rejecting genetic engin­would draw the line."How many s"ome quarter that the chances world must alter its techno­eering, LaFollette introduced of you would like to eliminate of solution to the crisis had logical/expansionist views. the science as a fllajor event in color-blindness?", LaFolletteimproved. 
Given the breakthrough of hum~n history. "The only thing as.~ed the audience. When the genetic. engineering in recent hat has had as profound an effect audience responded positively,
8ut parliament speaker 
Hashemt Rafsanjani and two years, coupled with society's on human life as genetic engin­view of "progress always," eering is the discovery of fire," (continued on page 4)
influential reli~ious leaders 

News Brieb 
Tuesday, September 16, 1980-page 2 
~~~~==~~============================~ 
by The Oltserver and The Associated Press 
President Carter told Texans yesterday that the man in the White House has to answer the most difficult questions on earth without embarrassing the nation and suggested that Ronald Reagan couldn't do it. " ... When he has spoken on his qwn the last few days, he's gotten himself in trouble." Carter said. He also chided the Republican Presidential nominee for declaring that the United States should accept newly stated-and since revised-Iranian terms for release ofthe 52 American hostages remaining in Iran. "The last thing thatany political candidate" should do is set into negotiations with Tehran with public statements, Carter said. 
Dentures inay be replaced by implantation in the future, a subject on which ·Ilarvard Dental School will begin a five-year, $800,000 study this month to compare impl~nted teeth with dentures conventionally used to replace missing teeth. Dentists have been implanting teeth for about 10 years, but there are questions about how efficient the implants are and how long they will last. Some patients are in­appropriately given implants, said Dr. Paul Schnitman, who will conduct the study with Dr. Leonard Shulman. "Adentist takes a two/day course and offers it to his patients without enough in­formation on the risks and benefits." A similar study has been going on for three years at five Veterans Administration centers. 
Fashion designer Halston brought his colorful, flattering designs and a covey of elegant models to China on Monday to give this country its first American fashion show. His mission is to show China's textile manufacturers­
long accustomed to the practical requirements ofsturdy work clothes-how they can use their fine silks to make garments for sale in the West and here. After spurning such luxuries for decades, China has given' it's official blessing to dresses diversity and color. The press regularly reports that the numbe; of styles available here is increasing for women who want to look attractive and distinct. 
More important, China wants to sell its textiles and garments abroad and is looking for advice. That's where Roy Halston Frowick can help. Especially with silk. -AP 
"Don't know" and "Undecided" 
would win ifthe election were held today in Indiana, anelection 
study showed yesterday. Dr. Brian S. Vargus, a sociologist at 
Indiana University, Purdue University at Indianapolis,directed 
the election poll, which he says confirms earlier findings of 
dismay and disillusionment among Hoosier voters. The poll 
shows 38 percent of the state's voters don't know who they'd 
vote for in the presidential race, with 3 7 percent casting straw 
votes for Republican nominee Ronald Reagan, 22 percent for 
Pres. Carter and 3 percent for Independent candidate John 
Anderson. 

The latest poll, taken state wide Sept. 11-14 among 810 
registered voters, reveals little feeling in favor of any 
presidential candidate, and a surprising number of vote.s who 
don't know who is running forlndiana's seat in the U. S. 
Senate.-AP 

A bomb squad from nearby Greeneville, Tenn., detonated a hand grenade that a group of children found Sunday night in Cherokee Lake. Hamblen County sheriff's deputies said Phyllis Grooms called officials when her children brought the grenade home after finding it on the muddy lake bottom in Evergreen Cove. Deputies noticed the pin was missing and called the Greeneville Police Department's bomb squad for help. Bomb specialistJohnJones tested the grenade and found it was live.J ones said that when the pin was originally pulled, the pincher apparently did not make contact. He said the grenade could ha·;e gone offat any time with a sudden jolt. 
The .sixth ~scape from the "escape-proof' Me~ropo!ttan Correctional Center in San Diego was the most :lanng-a 140-foot drop down the outside wall of the federal Jrison. Frank Perez-Martinez, a convicted cocaine distributor I~Sed sheets braided into a rope for his escape before dawn 0~ ~atu:day H~ was sentenced i~LosAngeles to 15 years in prison. ~ e.rez~Martmez, 37, a P~r~lvta.n, stuffed a prison uniform jump :,~ut w1th sheets a.nd ~eft 1t m hts bed to look like a man sleeping. ·. hen he broke h1s mnth-floor cell window and slipped out. The ,'owntown skysc~aper prison was described as escape-proof when 1t opened s1~ years ago. All five prisoners who escaped before Perez-Martmez, !lave been recaptured. 
Partly sunny and warmer with 5o percent chance ofscattered thundershowers developing by afternoon. High in the mid 70s. Thundershowers ending and cooler at night. Low around 50. Partly sunny and cool tomorrow. High around 70. 

Inside Tuesday 
Wanted: mind-full journalists 
It need be brought to no thinking person's attention that the present emphasis in our society on a "vo-tech'' concept of education is restrictive, short-sighted and potentially dan­gerous. This fact is clear and demonstrable. And, to be fair, it should be noted that this university has tried to stay away from a vocational training idea of education-at least in theory. 
So who is responsible for the present scho­lastic setup in which the business major laments and the engineer feels trapped? If it is not the schools themselves it is in equal parts the times and the students who, in the near-sighted folly of youth, actually think that an employer will demand that they "do it right" the first day on their precious job. This kind of thinking is so pervasive today that even those who should know better 

Mark Rust 


But he must eventually know "the package," the technical elements that are important in his presentation, and that is the purpose ofpractical experience. Indeed, real learning doesn't occur with, say, a camera until a few weeks' experience allows the user to erri'ploy it properly in a difficult, non-textbook situation. · 
But in our present sim­plistic society, those of us 

subscribe to it, and within the 
headed for a career in jour­last few days a reflection of nalism and communications this thinking has come to us in have a hard time distinguish­
the form of debate on the ing the professional's profes­pages of The Observer. sion from his intellectual Since the debate is centered approach to it. And it must be on journalism and commun­noted that most educators 
ications, I can't help but step 
have done little to teach us into the fray. John McGrath, that distinction. Instead they have, for the most part, sold
in this column last Tuesday, proposed that the University utilize a more structured approach to journalism and communications. Two days later, on the editorial page, a woman rebutted McGrath's argument by pointing out that the University has a wonderful communications department which-with the proper cross listings-will teach you everything you need to access a career in the broadcast journalism fields. 
It is a rather short-sighted argument on both sides, for it assumes that a concentration of technical knowledge is necessary and construc­tive on the college level. It is particularly clear that in journalism a concern with technical knowledge should be secondary -and a long second at that. 
Let's think about it for a second. From your television correspondent would you rather he know how·to play the camera or give you some insight into the "Palestinian problem?" From your print correspondent, would you rather he knew the history of the printing press or be able to explain for you the mumblings of econo­mists? A journalist's job is to package, each day, a coherent set of insights into the troubles and subtleties of the world. Would you rather he know well those problems, or the package they 
come i11? ­
The Obs.erY..er 
Design Editor ............. . Ryan Ver Berkmoes AssistantDesign Edttor . .. Amy Murray Night Techician ........... . Deirdre Murphy 
Copy Editor ................ . 
Carol Mullaney News Edttor... TomJackman Design Staff. .............. . Eileen Murphy Sports layout .............. . Paul Mullaney Typists ....... Kathy O'Dell 
Michelle Kelleher 
Bobbi-J o W enz 
Shaun McAuley 
Suzy Sulentic ND Day Editor ........... . Patsy Campbell Day Technicimz ... Mike Mitri Ad Design ....... .Jim Rudd Dave VVood Photographer-... .John Macor 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is 
published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation 
periods. The Observer Is published
by the students of Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions 
may be purchased for $20 per year 
($1 0 per semester) by writing Tile 
Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 
46556. 

The Ob11rv1r Is a member of the 
Associated Press. All reproduction
rights are reserved. 

out to the market demands of a decreasing amount of students with increas­ingly narrow educational demands. 
Using an institution like Indiana University as an example, it is clear that when a student pursues a journalism major his education is immediately in jeopardy. Rather than offer to the would-be journalist what he needs to do his job-i coherent view of world pattern and relationships~ the journalism school seeks to justify its own existence with courses like "Libel," a ridiculous subject for undergraduates to pursue formally, or "Styles in Paste-Up," which can be learned through experience and is about as ephemeral as most libel precedents. · Why not, instead, teach these people grammar, whichsome of them sorely need. 
They don't need to know the difference between modular and wrap-around layout, and neither do toe need them to know it. VV e need them to know sociology, psychology, philo­sophy, geology, biology, economics ...even theology and literature. If the communications students of today don't get it now, don't be surprised in the future when they have nothing to communicate. 
Social Concerns Film Series 
This week 'sfilms : 
DAY'S OF HEAVEN 
Monday and Tuesday 9/15,9/16 Engineering Auditorium $ 1.00 6:00;8:30;11:00 

REBELLION IN PATAGONIA 
Wednesday and Thursday 9/17,9/18 Engineering Auditorium Wed 6:00;8:30; I1:00pm free Washington Hall Thurs. 6:00; 8:30; 11:00 pm free 
SALT OF THE EARTH 
Friday 9/19 Washington Hall 8:00pm free 
Tu,esdays and Wednesdays Controlling Interest: "The World of the Multi-National Corporation" Lafortune Student Center Auditorium 
. 12:15-1:00 

Th~ Observer Tuesday, September 16, 1980-page 3 
Honteconting activities begin 
Homecoming began its acti­business hours all this week. First 
to the contest. These decorated 
vities this Monday with its "Find . prize is a set ofMichigan tickets; 
vehicles will then proceed at6:25 
the Blue" clue contest in The second prize is a pair of Poco 
p.m. to form Homecoming's Car 
Observer. Clues will appear concert tickets; and third prize is 
Parade, which will wind around 
through Thursday, with the an­a Homecoming Dance ticket. 
campus, meet the Notre Dame 
swer due into the Student Union Also Thursday, at both dining 
Marching Band, and kick off the offices (7757) by Friday. The first halls, is Alumni Dress-Up Night. "Blue is Thru!" Pep Rally. person with the correct answer Students should dress as they will 
Fireworks will follow the end 
appear as a visiting alum in about

will receive a Homecoming of the rally. Poco will then 
packet. 30 years. Imaginative dress will 
entertain the campus commun­There will be a button dis­be commended. Additionally, ity in the ACC. Tickets are av­tribution at the dining halls the Amazing Kreskin will appear ailable in the SU Ticket Office. 
Wednesday during dinner. The at Angela Athletic Facility at 8 
Saturday's highlight, the clash "Blue is Thru!" buttons are to be p.m. later that evening. between the Fighting Irish and worn all Homecoming Week to Friday is a full and exciting day. 
the Wolverines, promises to be 
show spirit. Also, Homecoming There will be a Car Decorating an interesting match up. Later on 
dance tickets will begin to be sold Contest at Stepan Center be­that evening, Homecoming '80 
at this time. The cost is $6 a ginning at4 p.m. Registration for 
presents "An Evening ofDance" 
couple. this event, prizes for which at Century Center, from 9 p.m. 
The Homecoming Banner include Michigan, Poco, and to 2 a.m. Packet holders should 
Contest will begin judging homecoming tickets, will be all get their tickets today at the SU 
around 4 p.m. on Thursday. week at the Student Union Ticket Office. General sales 
Cleverness, color, and imagina offices in Lafortune. Regis­begin Wednesday, in the dining 
tion (minus vulgarity) are the tration ·will be limited to 20 
halls. 

judging criteria. Banner regis­vehicles. Vehicles mustalso have tration is in the SU offices during had no major changes done prior r-------------------~-----------------------~

St. Mary'sSAPB: NDStudent I nion present Thursday,Sept. 18' 
(continued from page 1} deficit which is paid for by inflation, meaning that we pay 
TheAmazingmflation. A faster trimming, anyway. It would be better if we would cause more unemploy­just paid the tax directly, which ment''. Wilber also com­means working with a balanced 
Kreskin 
mented, "Rea~an would pro­budget. "For this reason, 
bably reduce mflation faster, Borengasser sees tax cuts as "a 
but the cost would be higher crazy idea". "If the govern­8pminAngela Athletic Facility 
unemployment ... Carter will not ment gives tax breaks and cause that unemployment, it continues working with a large doesn't fir into party policy--it's deficit, it will kill our economic TicketsavailableinSMC ticket not for the little guy.'' recovery.'' 
Borengasser differs from Craig Hartzer, of the Saint A.-offices; dining halls ~ Wilber's philosophy in that he Mary's Government Depart­
~--------------------------------------------~ 


...Recession 
believes, "the late 70's were ment, oscillates from this view misguided time,, which we in that he believes, "we need paid for over one bad period tax relief'. He agrees that earlier this year. During the ''while the economy is not 
late 70's the monetary author­doing well, and inflation is ities supported large federal high, tax curs would just in­deficit spending by rapid in­crease the problems later''. crease in the supply of money. '''once the election is over, we This caused rising inglation and have a better perspective of our produced and unstable econo­countries needs, and the econo­mic environment which led to my is healthy, yes, in the long our present recession.'' Boren­run, we need tax relief, "con­gasser sees things changing cluded Hartzer. 
though. He sees the Federal On the issue of election Reserve Board finally changing politics influencing policy in the 
to ont which is less inflationary. area of recession, Wilber adds, He believes a fundamental "the incumbant usually pur­problem to be the government sues and expansionary plan to policy of deficit spending. solve the recession about six Borengasser also sees the ordi­months prior to the election so nary peopli as contributing to the economy is booming by the problem. "Most people election time. Carter hasn't think that the cost of govern­done this to any great extent. In ment is covered by the amount the administrations judgement, we pay in taxes, but this is not jnflation is a more politically true. Our ~overnment has been damaging issue than the for some ume, operating with a recession''. 


CO)IiliC COALC)CCnCC 
Where does science fiction end and energy lasers, communications systems, reality begin? It's all" in the mind's eye. plus other future projects still consider­Be it the creative imagination used to ed science fiction. produce Star Wars, The Black Hole, and The Empire Strikes Back, or the more A company called TRW will be on scientific approach of hypothesis test­campus... ing and experimentation, the distant galaxies of science fiction coalesce into 
OCTOBER13 
reality with the advanced technology now being developed at a company 
to interview graduat~s in scien­called TRW. 
tific and technical disciplines. It was the Defense and Space Systems 
Contact the placement office to sche­
Group of TRW who made possible the 
dule your appointment. If unable to
Viking Lander biological experiment 
meet with us, send your resume to:
which looked for life on Mars and the High Energy Astronomical Observatory which looks for quasars, pulsars and College Relations 
black holes in deep space. Profession­Bldg. R5/B196 ND9/80 als at TRW-DSSG are now involved in One Space Park such impressive technologies as high Redondo Beach, CA 90278 
coebTR W-,~···~··"•"W"'
DEFENSE AND SPACE SYSTEMS GROUP 
ENERGY SYSTEMS GROUP 

The Observer 

• A health minded domer is silhouetted amongst some more serene creatures. [photo by john Macor] 
The One and Only
j 

Tony's Shoe .~~~~wntown 
Easy to find 

Ill West Jefferson 
Open 6 days a week 
~ 
-8-5 We sell boots and mocassins 

/ 

-\ 
I 
i 
{ 


Tuesday, ~ember 16,1980-page 4 
November 4th nears 
I 

Campus politicqs :campaign 
. 

By David Rickabat{gh 
As the November 4 election draws near, campus political or­ganizations have started regis­tration drives ~nd gathering workers to prepare for the fall campaign. 
The Republican organization is working with a large force of volunteers for candidate John Hiler in his bid' to unseat the incumbent Third District rep­resentative, House Majority Whip John Brademas. Re­publicans have also been cam­paigning for Rep. Dan Quayle in his attempt to defeat Sen. Birch Bayh for a U.S. Senate seat. 
College Republicans: spokes­man Marc Halsema feels that students S•:!nt out on. precinct work will have an influence on 
• the Hiler and Quayle contests. In the presidential race the Re­publicans expect · "no problems" in carrying Indiana for Ronald Reagan. 
Halsema commented, "Dur­ing the campaign, the Re­publicans will try to gain ex­posure by conducting a very visible and vocal campaign on r.ampus, and will also give aid to 
Areyouinterestedin sal~? 
=·TheObserver::::I 
hasopenings for 
Advertising&tlesrrien 
. ~ ! 
I 


The Observer has an opening for an 
Advertising Manager 
Ifyou: 
0 

Have goodbusiness sense 
0 

Areselfmotivated 
0 

Want to earn money 
Come up to the office andsee Shirley for an application 
I ' 
i 1 

the county effort." Halserfa said they are also in the process of organizing a large contingent of volunteers to contact voters on the telephone and by d~or-to~ door campaigning. I 
GOP regional headqUarters are providing the camri,ts Rel publicans with assistance: in th~ Hiler race, while the nati~nal, aS well as the regional, headquari ters are aiding the campus effort in the Quayle/Bayh Cor>test; since Sen. Bayh has been tar~ geted by the Senatorial lRepub7 lican Committee as one ofthe six f!1embers of Congress who must be evicted from office jby the Republicans. 1 i 
The Democratic camp!has 119 volunteers working mamly Oil the Brademas campaign~ On th~ national level, Jim Murpmy ofthe Young Democrats campus ot­ganization feels, "the: Caru;r people have been inv~sible in Indiana and especially ~t Notre Dame." ; . 
A voter registration drive will kick off the Democratic cam­paign. The local organi)o:ation Is trying to arrange Rep. Brademas, Democratic Party Chairman Robert Strauss, or a m~mb_er Of the Carter family to speak on campus. The campus Democrats are also going to provide the regional headquarters with volunteers. 
Supporters of independent candidate John Anderson feel they have already influenced the election greatly by virtue of the work they did to have Anderson's name placed on the primary ballot in the Third District. The Anderson supporters admit that Indiana is a strong Reagan state. 
Campaigning for Anderson will concentrate in the fund­raising area. They will circulate literature at Notre Dame foot­ball games, conduct a door-to­door campaign, and have J.J. Friedman, a representative from the Anderson state campaign headquarters in Indianapolis, speak on campus. Frank Tighe, who ran as an Anderson delegate in Illinois in March, of the Aderson staff predicts, "out of every two votes on campus, one will be for Anderson." 
..LaFollette 
(continued from page 1) 
he asked about left-handedness, skin color, height and eye color. 
The  audience  response  di­ 
minished rapidly.  
LaFollette  questioned  the  

audience further. "Who will you trust to decide what is a good gene and what is a bad gene? The United States government? The presidents and boards of corpor­ations such as Dupont and Dow Chemical?," LaFollette asked amid chuckles from the group. "How about the tenured faculty at Notre Dame? How about twelve good friends?" As the uneasy silence spread through the group, LaFollette elicited a few self-conscious laughs as he qualified his last question-"In a church basement?" 
To illustrate genetic engieer­ing's ,possible effects on the world, LaFollette described what has been accomplished since 1970, and what could be ac­complished. So far,scientists have learned the functions of chromosomes,how to fuse two species together, and even to extend through four generations a mixture between a mouse and a human, LaFollette said. 
Predictions for the future in­clude the ability to change gen­etic structures in order to en­hance certain traits in humans, such as blond hair, the ability to clone and test-tube fertilization, according to LaFollette. One scientist even suggests that we fuse human genes with those of plants, giving humans the ability to photosynthesize, "so we can walk around in the sun and make energy, LaFollette stated pseudo-incredulously. 
LaFollette went on to defend the need for anew world vi(!UI. "Genetic engineering is the final step, perhaps, in the current mechanistic world view. The only alternative is an entropic world view,"LaFollette said. The new world view must be that nature is essentially valuable and good un­til humans exploit it for progress, LaFollette explained. 
Our present world view, put forth by five men LaFollette terms "the Fearsome Five," 
(continued on page 10) 

------~-~ 
The Observer Tuesday, September 16, 1980-page 5 


r . r  
r  !  
\  I  i}  


These And All CBS Masterworks Albums Regularly $7.99 Are On &lle For Only $5.99 Each! 

RAMPAL-BOLLING

COPLAND conducts 
Suite for Flute and Jazz Piano

COPLAND Appalachian Spring 

. RAMPAL conducts MOZART 

SAJNT-SAENS: 
SYMPHONIES No. 36 ("LINZ") 

CARNIVAL or THE ANIMALs 
and No. 38 ("PRAGUE") 

VAlUATIONS ON A THEJIIJ: OF BEETHOVEN, 
Mostly Mozart Orchestra 



First Recordings
BOULEZ 
Elliott Carter
conducts 
Symphony of lhree Orchestras 
SCHOENBERG 
BBC SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA 
New York 

PhilharmonicA Survivor from 
Warsaw 
Pierre Boulez,conductor
Vanahons lor 
A Mirror on Which to Dwell
Orchestra F1ve P1eces lor 
Speculum Musicae 
Orchestra 
Richard Fitz,Conductor
Accomparument to a Cmematographic 
Susan Davenny Wyner, 

Scene 
Soprano 

All ODYSSEY Single Albums Are On Sale For Only 
~.49 


---~--------­
.. ' .. ' .·,·,' 
The Observer 
'DaysofHeaven' 
Concerns Film Series Continues 
The Social Concerns Film Series continues this week with tonight's showing of "Days of Heaven." The film is the story of young persons ona journey frorr1. oppressive factory work in Chicago to the Texas panhandle on the brink of WW I. The tensions experienced on the Texas farm and the contrast be_tween rich and poor are--­brilliantly portrayed by writer-
Women students 
• 

rurconcems 
The Advisory Council of Women Students is a campus organization designed to pro­vide a "direct access" to the administration to air the con­cerns of women living both on and off campus. 
The Council which has been in existence since the beginning of co-education at Notre Dame, selectc:d its present ~all repre­sentatives last spnng. The Council meets once a month at which time women students are asked to air their concerns. The following is a list of the hall council members: Badin: Tami Tavis, 6968; Breen-Phillips: Kelly Leahy, 1331; Farley: ~aureen Shagena, 6865; Lewis: Jeanine Blatt, 4630; Lyons: Mary Ellen Caiati, 7916; Walsh: Nancy Judge, 8085; Villa Angela: Carmela Espo· sito; Off-Campus: Anne Fultz. 
director Terence Malick. As a 
whole, the film is a provocative 
mix ofsight, sound, emotionand 
illusion, and is an extremeltt 
accessible work of art. "Days of 
Heaven" will be shown in the 
Engineering Auditorium tonight 
at 6:00, 8:00, and 11:00. The cost 
is $1.00. 
"Rebellion in Patagonia," one 
of Argentina's most popular 
films in recent years is a true 
portrayal of the early strikes by 
Argentine workers as a result of 
brutal military suppression. This 
colorful action movie is set in the 
southernmost province of 
Argentina and is beautifully 
filmed against the rugged pan­
orama of the gorgeous pampas 
and snow-capped Andes Moun­
ntins. The film forcefully depicts 
moving and enlightening char­
acterizations of the main pro­
hLgonists in this historical drama, 
including the anarcho-syndica­
ted leaders of the workers' 
movement, inspired by utopian dreams of a truly just and hu­mane social order in Argentina. In Spanish dialogue with English subtitles, this 1974 .eye-opener was directed by Hector Olivera. "Rebellion in Patagonia" will be shown on Wednesday, Sep­tember 17, in the Engineering Auditorium and on Thursday, September 18, in Washington Hall. The film will be shown in both locations at 6:00, 8:00, and 
11:00 p.m.; admission is free. 
"Salt of the Earth" is a semi­documentary film which re­creates an actual year-long strike 

GO IRISH BEAT MICHIGAN 
Grade A Holly Farms Whole Frye 69¢ lb. 
of Mexican American zinc miners in New Mexico. The film consists of three inter-woven plots: men against their bosses, , ..liiWi··­wives against husbands, and Mexican workers against affluent "anglos." The drama centers on the intricate, evolving relation­ship between one of the strikers (Juan Chacon) and his wife (Rosaura Revueltos). Initially, he objects to her participating in the strike, but when a court in­junction bars the men from picketing, the women take over · 
and eventually force the com­pany to capitulate. Directed by Herbert Dibermann, the film will be shown Friday at 8:00p.m. in Washington Hall. Admission is free. 
"Controlling Interest: The World of the MultiNational Corporation" will be shown at 
12:15 p.m. today and tomorrow in the LaFortune Student Center Auditorium on the first floor. This 45-minute documentary shows the inexorable concen­tration of th~ world's wealth resources in the hands of a few 
, self-serving multi-national cor­porations which have no loyalty to any country and whose cor­porate decisions are based solely on making profits. This is a committed film, arguing against the multi-national company, rather than presenting both sides of the question. The exclusive interviews with major corporate executives is especially enligh­tening. Admission to this 1978 documentary is free. 
Sooper Cost Cutter 
Springdale 2% Lowfat 
Milk~ 
$1.59gol. 
Kroger -Frozen Fried Chicken 

Quarters 2 lb. box 
Chiffon Margarine1 lb. box 
Vanilla or Fudge Marble 

Sooper Cost Cutt~r 
Springdale Homogenized Milk .$1.69gol. 
$1 .99 59¢ 
Polar Pak 112 gaL$1 .19 
Ice Cream 

Sungold 24 oz. 29C Sanwhich Bread 
The new D-G parking lot behind the ROTC building is convenient to the South Quad, CaTTOI Hall, and has direct access to U.S. 31. [photo by John Macor] 
Medievelmusicspecialists performfor Artist'sseries 
The University Artists Series continues its earlyseason sched­ule tomorrow night with a performance by The Jongleurs, highly-acclaimed specialists of Medieval and Renaissance music. The concert will be at 8 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. 
The Jongleurs, comprised of four men and two women, have been performing throughout the United States in the past six years. They made their New York debut in 1978 and have been heard nationally on syn­dicated radio broadcasts. The group's talent, scholarship, and virtuosic ability makes it one of 
Tasty VanCamp 
the most exciting and sought­after ensembles in the field today. 
For the Notre Dame com­munity, The Jongleurs will per­form music from "London British Museum Additional 29987 Manuscript," written in the late fourteenth century. 
This marks the third concert sponsored by the University Artists Series in the young sea­son. The Michiana Pops Symphonette, led by conductor Zigmont G. Gaska, presented a pair of concerts 'on the lawn in front of the Dome the past two Wednesdays. 

Sooper Cost Cutter 
Plastic Jug .5% Lowfat Milk $1.49gol. 
2 
16 oz. cans 

Pork &Beans 
2
Honey Pod 
17 oz. cans
Stokely Peas 

Kroger Grade A Medium Eggs 
Stokely Cut Green Beans 
Frozen Cone. Minute Maid Orange Juice 
\. 


69¢ 
89¢ 79¢ 
doz. 
Flame Red 
Tokay Grapes 78¢ lb. 

California 
Jumbo Cantaloupe 88¢ 
with coupon in store 

-l 
Tuesday, September 16, 1980-page 7
Editorials 
Let's Take Care ofOur OWn 
TV NEWS BULLETIN, Oc­tober 15, 1980 
The latest wave ofthe so-called "East River Boat People" arrived in Manhattan today, bringing to 15,000 the total number of re­fugees from the urban ghettos of New York. 
There are also reports from Detroit, Chicago, Los Angeles, and Houston concerning the same phenomena. These refu­gees are reportedly asking for ecomomic asylum, positive dis­placement to other areas of the country, and sponsors in their quests for new opportunities in life. To get the full and complete story, WHY-TV has dispatched ace correspondent Gerald Rivers to the scene. Gerald? 
"Thanks, Frank. This is Gerald Rivers at the landing point for the refugees, a converted wharf in South Ferry, near the World ~tJ.1i.~'§j!!§lfl@~~ 
Trade Center. I have with me one of the latest arrivals, one Mr. Freeman Jones, and he's going to give us some details. So Free­man, would you please explain what is going on here, I mean what's the purpose of all this?" 
"Man, you from60 minutes? Where's that Rather dude? I don't be talking to no jive cats." 
"He's coming, he's coming. Please just answer a few ques­tions for us. Like what exactly is going on?" 
"Well man, it's like this. Back up in the Bronx we been watching the tube the last few years and we was noticing all these boat peoples coming from all over talking about getting a new start and how the United States be the land of oppor­tunity, so we decided to come and get ours." 
"But how can you come to the 
U.S. when you were here al­ready?" 
"Man, that's why we be using the boats. We figures that if we comes downtown on the subway nobody would notice us, or else they be calling out the army. 
Doonesbury 
50. MIN/J/P 
I HAV&A scAT. J.J.? 
" 

Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 ' 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views of their authors. Column Sf:lace is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varymg opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
They just say what these folks be why didn't you talk to your coming around here for? Why congressman?" don't they stay up there in "Man you crazy? That dude Harlem? Dig? Like in the black­been promising stuff for years, out, they just say all them niggers and don't nothing be changing. is crazy! So we figures the way to But we seen them boat peoples get noticed is to· come in like on "60 Minutes" getting spon­them Cubans and Viet Congs, sors and moving out to the you know, boat peoples." country and we just want our 
"But I still don't understand piece of the rock, you know? So why you came here as refugees, we here. Where you from man? 
by Garry ~rudeau 
7HANK5. 
\ 
HEY, THAT'S 6REAT. /..001<:'3 UK£ A P!<£T7Y 
(i()(){)CJIAN­NU,700. 
I 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Edztor-m-Chief.... ... Paul Mullanq· Managing Editor . . . . . ... Mark Rust Edztonals Editor .... ...... Mike Onufrak Senior Copy Editor ......... Lynne Daley Executive News Editor ... Tom Jackman NewJ Ediiur· ......... ........ Pam Degnan 
SMC Executive Editor .. Margie Brassil 
Anthony Walton 
\Vhy don't you pe my sponsor? I want to go to Connecticut." 
"Sorry Freeman, I don't think so. By the way, where did y011 get the boats?" 
''We built 'em man. There's so many old raggedy buildings up there that we just took books and tires and stuff and tied it to­gether. We didn't have to come all that far, you know." 
. 

SA1C Nf'u's Editor ..... ..... Mary Leavitt 
Sports Editor ................ Beth Huffman Features Edztor ... ........ Molly Woulfe Photo Editor ............... John Macor 
Business Manaf!.er ..... .... Greg Hedges Production-Manager ..... John McGrath 
"Where did you leave from?" 
"Myself, I got on up at Yankee Stadium, but I heard there's more folks leaving from up at 125th in Harlem. Now where's my sponsor? Hell, I'll even go to Jersey, man. I ain't picky. Son ofa gun, there goes that Rather cat, I'm gonna be on "60 Minutes." Hey Dan my man, wait up!" 
"And with that this is Gerald Rivers signing off..." 
Forgive my facetiousness and consider this: the United States has a long tradition ofwelcoming in the "tired, huddled masses" of other countries, while virtually ignoring the problems ofgroups 
' indigenous to its soil. All ofthis is once again apparent during the 
· ongoing saga of the latest group of refugees, the Cubans. We have been treated to the initial drama ofthe influx, the stories of escapes and releases, the sear­ches and reunions, the happiness and pain. We have seen a difficult summer of adjustment on the part of many of the Cubans, and are now watching a fall of dis­content on the part of some of the others. The riots and hi­jackings are occuring with an alarming frequency, enough of which to make me wonder why this always happens, why we seem so anxious to welcome the world, and in the process further bury certain .native segments of our society. 
William Wells Brown, in 1863, wrote this concerning a runaway slave who died trying to reach freedom: "Had Clotel escaped from oppression in any other land, in the disguise in which she fled from the Mississippi to Richmond, and reached the U n­ited States, no honor within the gift of the American people would have been too good to have been heaped upon the heroic woman. But she was a slave, and therefore out of the pale of sympathy. They have tears to shed over Greece and Poland; they have an abundance of sympathy for 'poor Ireland'; they can furnish a ship of war to convey the Hungarian refugees from a Turkish prison to the 'land of the free and the home of the brave.' They boast that Am­erica is the 'cradle of liberty'; if it is, I fear they have rocked the child to death." 
It is as if this were written yesterday, yet it was written almost 125 years ago. The more things change, the more they stay the same. Another cliche, but as cliches usually go, sadly true. 
I will leave you with another very old quote, said by Carl Sandburg before the race riots in 1919. Again, it is ominously topical: "The slums will take their revenge." Watts, Chicago, Newark, Detroit...Miami ... 

-------------. 
Features 
Tuesday, September _16, 1980-page 8 
-~---­
Unselfish Selfishness 

-

LIVEATCENTURYCENTER 
Second City Delivers, but Audience Unresponsive 

Many of ourself-obsessedself-help books; like Looking Out for Number One, Creative Ags!ession, With Deception and Blujj and Winning Through Intimidation, located in the trash section of your local bookstore, seem at first glance easy pickings for a Christian critique. Their self-cen­tered message appears directlv O,P­posed to that of the Gospel, with Its mjunctions against selfishness: I've been wondering, however, if there is not a kind of selfishness totally consistent with our faith. 
For a long time, we Christians have been accused of advocating a kind of unholy docility, accepting reality all too passively. Albert Camus wrote frequently ofhis dislike for Christians who climbed onto crosses precisely so that they might be seen from a long distance. We have witnessed in this century that unbelievable loss of power to resist evil forces that led to the rise of Hitler and the death of six million of our Jewish brothers and sisters. If only thousands had wit­nessed against the paralysis and powerlessness ofsociety at that time. 
This is oftentimes where the problem comes in. It is the lack of power, not its superabundance. It is the powerlessness of apathy · that is the root of all evil. Sin itself is the flight from a~tion. The opposite of love, Rollo May rightly insists, is not hatred; it is apathy. And we know the old addage: ''All it takes for great evil to be done is for a lot of good people to do nothing." 
It may look like acting for number 
one is a betrayal of acting for others, 
but I would like to suggest just the 
opposite. In a way, selfishness is a 
way to unselfishness. Most of our 
sinfulness is the result of passivity, 
the result of our not having enough 
self-power to · overcome our do­
nothmg stance. 
We may feel we are humble and good Christians, as we stand in the middle of the world's evil, doing nothing. It may seem pious not to want power, to be docile, passive. It may apfear realistic to adopt the myth o impotence: "I can't do anything." In so doing, however, we deny responsibility and, frequently, our freedom of choice--that which makes us unique among creatures. 
If the power of evil can get us to stop exercising our freedom to choose and act, then we are captive, and already experiencing a kind of hell. 
This is precisely the insight con­tained in that marvelous passase about the Grand Inquisitor In Sostoevsky's classic novel, The Brothers Karamazov. Jesus, the pri­soner, is being grilled by the Cardinal, who is the Grand Inquisitor of the Inquisition. He accuses Jesus of making a tremendous mistake when He refused-to turn stones into bread in the desert, which would have caused the crowds to run after him: 
Choosing bread, you would have satisfied the universal and ever­lasting craving of humanity--to find someone to worship. But what hap­

pened? Instead of taking man's 
freedom away from him, you made it 
greater than ever. You wondered 
what that freedom was worth if 
obedience is bought with bread. You 
desired man's free love, that he 
should follow you freely. In place of 
the rit:id ancient law, man must 
hereafter with free heart decide for 
himselfwhat is goodand what is evil, 
'having only your image before him as 
his guide. 
And so the great temptation for 
] esus was that He should take away 
our freedom and become our Super­
star, dazzlin~ us with miracles that 
would effectively eliminate the bur­
den of having to gamble and trust 
that He is the one we should proclaim 
as Lord. Jesus was tempted to 
remove the necessity forfaith. 
I'm wondering if we are entirely happy with His decision. At times, I suspect we resent the fact that He refUsed to free us from the burden of freedom. We don't always like the challen~e .~f having to choose! taking responsibility for a stand, deciding in our own conscience the course of action. We may join with those thousands of Catholics who prefer to abdicate their freedom, the shared resl?onsibility decreed to them by V attcan II. Like the followers of Archbishop Lefebvre (and not totally unlike those of ] ames ] ones of 
Jonestown), they wish to be con­
trolled and totally subservient to a 
powerful priestly cult. 
Fr. Bill Toohey 
How well the Grand Inquisitor knows us. In the fmal, chilling speech to]esus, he says: 
We have corrected your work, and have founded it upon miracle, mys­tery and authonty. Andmen refoiced that they were again led like sheep, and that the terribl.~ift that had brought them such su en'ng was, at last, liftedfrom their earls. Who can rule men if not he who holds their conscience and their bread in his hands. We shall persuade then they will only become free when they renounce their freedom to us and submit to us. 
We are all susceptible to that temptation. Consequently, we do well to "look out for number one." For, to do that can mean the realization that we need the power of Another. Looking out for number one can mean looking out and seeing our weakness, insufficiency, inadequacy and immaturity. It can promJ?t us to turn to the power of God, residing in the man Jesus. 
In the end, that type of looking out for number one (lookins. to the power of God in the face of evtl and our own death-dealing apathy) is also to look out for all others. Thus what seems to be selfish is actually powerfully unselfish; for, once His power is within us and His Spirit leading us, we find ourselves looking out beyond ourselves to those in this wounded world who call to us. 
True to form, Second City displayed their comical genius that has been their trademark for twenty years last Friday night at Century Center. Be­ginning the show with a scene in a hospital emergency room, the troupe swiftly needled away at social classes, 
the start of an evening of lampooning the American Way. Second City's unique method ofexamining social mores is to expose humor in situations where humor is generally thought not to exist. 
\ . 

The setting for this performance was the Conventional Hall of Century Center, which had been arranged into a banquet hall. Round tables capable of seating five couples, and a cash bar, provided Second City with a club atmosphere. This mood is important to the troupe as they play to the audience, and encourage audience participation. 
In this case, audience response was divided. A crowd oflndiana Cemetery Association members, and elderly Michiana area residents, often looked puzzled during skits, or laughed politely. Other audience members were enthusiastic. 
Digs at Elkhart and Goshen were included in some skits to personalize the show. In one sketch in particular, the famous scene with Sister Mary Innocence and the VD clinic, a Second City-er claimed to have caugqt the disease from St. Joe's River. Gurley­Leep and Notre Dame were also incorporated into the show, but the audience was largely unresponsive. The University-rehtted sketches, con­cerning a final exam, a philosophical Monopoly game in a dorm, and a Notre Dame quarterback's secret attraction for Harlequin Romances were a gen­ration away from the interests of this audience. 
Kevin Korowicki 
Some ofthe best skits are traditional favorites; the Doctor Shirley Kinsey classroom sex lecture is a great parody of the sexual hang-ups of the fast­paced American society. A bar-room scene gives unexpected insight into a homosexual encounter. 
"The Symphony ofSocial Criticism" was an example ofthe group's talent at improvisional comedy. Other well­executed skits of this type included a spoofofa Las Vegas act, and the selling of philosophy as a commerical pro­cuct. 
Second City concluded the per­formance with acknowledging "the unsung heroes" ofthe show, the seven wooden chairs used as the only props. As for personal recognition, Friday night's cast included Sandra Bogan Mike Hagerty, Bob Clemens, Joh~ Kapelos,Jim Fay, Maureen McCarthy pianist Ruby Streak, and stage man: ager Craig Taylor. Making his "homecoming" appearnace was the newest member of the cast, Rick Thomas, a 1977 graduate of Notre Dame, and one ofthe founders of"The Keenan Revue." 
Kenin Korowicki is a senior history mafor from Doylestown,Pa. 
.. 

The <lbservel'-===== = 
TQday===========T=uesd==ay=,Sep=te=mbe=r=1=6,=19=8=0-p=ag=e=9 
Campus 
12: 
15 p.m. -biology dept. seminar, 1'predatm-prey in­teractions: evidence from the recent sedime.nts of man­ipulated lakes," dr. jennifer a. kite hell, u. of wise., madison, b-101 galvin. 

12: 
15 p.m. -social con­cerns film, "controlling in­terest'', Iafortune stu. ctr. aud., free of charge. (bring a 


lunch.)  
4  p.m.-soccer,  nd  vs  
valparaiso,  stepan  center  
field.  

4:30 p.m.-biology dept. seminar, "trophic pathways in the great lakes: past, present & possibilities," dr. james f. kite hell, u. of wise., madison. 
6, 8:30, 11 p.m.-social concerns film, "days of heaven", engr. aud., $1. 
7 p.m.-film club organ­izational meeting, 114 o'shag. 
7 p.m.-natural family pla~ing class, presented by mr. & mrs. william bettcher, local natural family planning program, hayes-healy aud., spons: campus ministry. call 288-2662 to register. 
11The Blue Clue" 
Her domain is in the land of the fair. Yea, her companions are quite beautiful. 
SMCmoney available 
Saint Mary's Student Gov­ernment will soon be allocating funds to saint mary's and Notre Dame clubs and organizations. The applications are available at the Saint Mary's Student Activities office in LeMans Hall. The forms must be re­turned by September 29. 
~[T IS
Illi R ~ 
M A R A A 
'"'T'+'R~I'-'-M H A N~
TJ~~:-tio:oj TT P s T ·~+'2-1':'-lol.li._l lA S lirs1-"+'=-AIP~~~· 
p Y lsll IE 

[A IA.IEIVIEINIT IO R fN IN. DlA IE IS liP 
Rightto Life Mass 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Right to Life club will sponsor a year-opening mass tonight at 6:30 p.m. in La Fortune. Immediately following the mass, at 7:15p.m., the t!rst general meeting of the year will be held in the LaFortune Little Theater. All interested students are welcome. 
18 

Molarity 
MOM!~ERE'S SOMEONE HERE'SELLIN6 BEAGLE SCOUT COOKIES! 

OKA~i WE'LL TAKE ABOX.. ~ERE'S l{OUR DOLLAR... 
' 
The Daily Crossword 
' 


ACROSS 
1 :t,verelgn 
5 oi>served 
9 Dinner 
course 13 Cherish 14 Musical 
15 ~r.::m 
16 Turttlsh 
tlile 
17 Confess 
18 Change 
clrectlon 19 Light· hearted 22 Youthful 
~ 23 a::~ri­
clians 
v ~sterda~ 
27 Jeweler's 
weight  
30  Confiden­ 
tial  
32  Shake­ 
(hurry)  
33  Biological  
classes  
35  Worit by  
Plndar  
36  Coin  
37  Water  
mammal  
38  Elysium  
39  Self-esteem  
40  Signature- 
witnessing  
official  
41  Kept In  
42  Prepared  
for sewing  

Puzzle Solved: 

Michael Molinelli 

,, 

I
Peanuts® Olarles M. &hulz 
44 
45 
46 
46 54 57 
58 
59 
60 61 
62 63 
64 

Hazes Tolerates Actor Gulnness Easy-going Information Butter substitutes Mystical 
Inscription Heathen 
deity Raises Emerald 
Isle Short note 
Ancient 

home of 
Irish kings Collections 
DOWN 

1 Coaster 2 Dwelling 
place 3 Tel­4 Birthright 5 Auto 6 TV award 7 Narrative 
poem 

8 With-In the wor1d (carefree) 
9 Harsh 10 Arena cheer 
11  Take advan·  
tage of  
12  Each  

14 Subdue 
20  Pennlt  
21  Hayworth  
24  Wears away  
25  Laughing,  
old style  
26  Gets  
wind of  
27  West Point  
students  
28  Dismount  
29  Sucking  
fish  
30  Toward the  
Interior  
31  Oracle man  
33  Magnanimous  
loser  
34  Small: suH.  
38  Dlscrimlna·  
tlng ones  
40  Nothing: Sp.  
43  Provide  
with heav·  
enly head·  
wear  
44  Honey  
46  Maritetplace  
47  DelicH  
49  Entreaty  
50  Twelvemonth  
51  Heal  
52  Unite  
closely  
53  Yeamings  
54  Obscure  
55  Fruit  
drink  
56  Male turitey  



Wednesday, September 17· library Auditorium 8:00pm JamesHall 
"Promise ThemAnything''. 
A50year retrospective ofpolitical campaign commercials-free admission sponsored bySU AcademicCommission 
, The Observer Tuesday, September 16, 1980-page 10 
' 
Harriers boast experience 
by Matt Huffman mile as a senior in high school. scheduled for Friday, SeptemberSports U7rtfer Also named as freshmen elite 26. This is the first year for the were Andy Dillon, who placed meet which was planned and The Fighting Irish cross coun­second in Michigan cross coun­organized by Piane. 
try squad will begin a new season try with a time of of 9:11, and "We're hoping that this will be this fall with a number of ex­Dave Diebold who finished a good jumping off point for our perienc·~d runners from the past, fourth in Indiana. team. This is the meet we are 
and some encouragi:r1g potential Two other freshmen, Tim pointing towards. for the future. Sixth year Coach Novak of Chesterton, Ind. and ''I'm looking for a good year Joe Piane feels confident that the Dan Walsh of Chicago, are for a number of reasons," says 
team can can have a good year. expected to brighten the Irish Piane. "First and most obvious, "We've got a good mix on the outlook even further. we have good talent. Second, we squad," says Piane. 'Tm really After a long summer of hard have good team unity, which is looking for our upperclassmen workouts the Irish runners are important. Cross country is a to provide wme leadership for looking forward to the beginning team sport, and in any athletic the incoming fn:shmen." of the season. event a team has to be unified. Among those returning from "We had our upper-classmen "Finally our team captains will last years sq:Jad are seniors John running 85 miles a week, and we need to provide leadership. I'm Filo:;a and Chuck Aragon, jun­plan to continue that through confident that Filosa and Aragon The Toledo Rockets' women's field hockey team 'travelled to South Bend iors Pat Sullivan and Tony the season." says Pian e. "Though will provide it for us." yesterday for matches at the Saint Mary's fi'eld. They came away with a Hatherly and sophmore Carl I haven't made it mandatory for pairofvictories, shuttingout the Belles, 2-0, and stifling Notre Dame, 1-0. Bicicchi. Filosa and Aragon will the freshmen, most have been (photos by john Macor) serve as captains for the 1980 running about 85 miles a week season. anyway." 
Mariners

V t·terans Charlie Fox, Kevin Once again the Irish long Kinney, and Mike Maney also distance runners face a demand­return, but are reported on the ing and prest:igous schedule. The 
pound Sox 
injured list. Their recovery first four events are scheduled to should further bolster Irish be run at Notre Dame, and the 
SEATILE (AP)--Mario Men­
depth. last two before the NCAA 
doza drove in four runs, two of
If the abilities of this year's Championships are in Illinois 
them in Seattle's nine-run third 
freshmen are any sign of things and Ohio. 
inning, to lead the Mariners to 
to come, the Notre Dame cross "Ithink the fact that we won't 
a 12-1 victory over the Chicago 
country program is on the up­have to travel a great deal will 
White Sox Monday night. 
swing. "We had one of our best work to our advantage in a big Seattle right-hander Rob years in terms of recruiting. way, espcially with our first four Dressler, 4-8, scattered eight We've been able to pick up a meets right here at home. This hits while pitching up his number of good runners who should give our runners, and second complete game of the impressed us with their high most importantly our freshmen, season. school performances," notes a chance to establish themselve The Mariners sent 14 batters Piane." on a course they are used to," to the plate while collecting six 
Among those listed as possible notes Piane. hits in their big third-inning standouts in the class of '84 is The first event,the National outburst. Ralph Zaron. Zaron ran a 9:02 2-Catholic Cross Country Meet, is ] erry Narron and Dave Edler 

opened the inning with singles and mendoza reached first on a bum single to load the bases. A sacrifice fly by ] ulio Cruz scored Nanon before Chicago 
LaFollette
Scuba Oasses • • • 


starter Lamarr Hoyt walked Joe Simpson and Larry Milbourne 
(continued from page 4)

Fall Session: to force in a run. Bruce Bochte' s sacrifice fly 
aeon, DesCartes, Newton, Loch scored Mendoza with the third
Meeting: Thurs., Sept.18 and Adam Smith, is that nature is 
run before Dan Meyer doubled essentially waste until we 1,1sehome Simpson and Milbourne
7:00pm technology to make it valuable,
and scored ahead of Rod LaFollette added. 
LaFortune Room 2D Craig's third home run of the Earlier, when LaFollette was
season.

Bring $30 deposit detailing the exponential rate which the extinction ofspecies is following, going from a rate of
Scuba trip to Cozumel over 
Banner Contest one speci~s per thousand years in Thanksgiving break the dinosaur age to a projected rate of one per hour by 1990,
Do your certification dives in the All entrants for the campus LaFollette commented that, banner contest must sign up by "Five hundred thousand species 
· beautiful Caribbean ! ! 
tomorrow in the Student Union will bite the genetic dust by the 
Details at meeting office to be eligible to win GA year 2000." tickets to the Michigan game 
In response to a question a­Saturday. entrants can also bout what can best be done to
Call 272-8607 or 272-9780 register with their Hall ocial bring about the new world view,Commissioner. 
LaFollette answered,"by talking 
,-------------------------------­

Student Legal Services 
BASEMENT NOTRE DAME LAWSCHOOL ______~ 
LEGAL AID AND DEFENDENT ASSN RoomB-12 283-7795 9-4:30 
1----othertimes by appointment ----1 
21 9-283-4395
8-5 MON.-SAT 

EVENINGS BY APPT 
UNIVERS!......,. YAIR STYLISTS 
FULL SERVICE UNISEX CENTER HAIR CUTTING SPECIALISTS 
BADIN HALL NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 46556 
to students at Notre Dame." He went on to qualify his statement, saying that this student body's generation is the one that must decide which future the world will have. 
"You can hit yourself with a rubber mallet and knock your­self out (you'd probably be better offin the long run) but the problems are not going to go away,"LaFollette reminded the audience. 
Card Club Organizes 

The Rook & Euchre Card Club will hold and organiza­tional meeting tonight at 7 p.m. The meeting will take/lace in the card room locate in the basement of LaFortune next to the Nazz. All students are invited. Questions should be directed to Mike O'Connor (2275) . 
,-----------·
1 needprinting 11 in a hurry? 1 
IJOO -llxl7 postersl 

only$10.00 I I .203 N. Main 1 
~._-_ _... South Bend I 
I 
289-6977 1 
thewizof the I 
. t• b" I I
iL.f~~!!~-~.:.-J 
~ --~ ---~------------~----------------------~-­
The Observer Tuesday, September 16, 1980-page 11 
Football 

NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 
American Conference hast 
w  L  T  Pet.  
Buffalo  2  0  0  1.000  
Baltimore  I  I  0  .500  
Miami  1  1  0  .500  
New hn~~:land  1  1  0  .500  
N.Y. Jets  0  2  0  .000  
Central  
Pittsbur~~:h  2  0  0  1.000  
Houston  I  )  0  .500  
Cincinnati  0  2  0  .000  
Cleveland  0  2  0  .000  
West  
San Die~~:o  2  0  0  1.000  
Denver  I  I  0  .500  
Oakland  1  I  0  .500  
Seattle  1  1  0  .500  
Kansas City  0  2  0  000  

National Conference hast 
Philadelphia 2 0 0 1.000 Dallas I I 0 .500 
N.Y. Giants I I 0 .500 Wash in~~: ton I 0 .500 St. Louis 2 0 .000
0 
Central 

Detroit 2 0 1.000
0 Tampa Bay 2 0 0 1.000 
Chica~~:o 0 .5000
I Green Bay 0 .500
I Minnesota 0 .500
I 

West S11n Francisco 2 0 0 1.000 Atlanta I I 0 .500 Los An~~:eles 0 2 0 .000 New Orleans 0 2 0 .000 
Sunday's results Atlanta 37. New l\n~land 21 Detroit 29, Green Bay 7 Chica~o 22, New Orleans 3 Ruffalo 20, New York Jets 10 Philadelphia 42, Minnesota 7 Pirrsbur~th 20, Baltimore 17 Seattle 17, Kansas City 16 
37 
34 
24 
24 
" 
51 33 28 24 
64 
47 
51 
30 
30 
69 37 62 26 
56 
70 27 
28 
19 31 
50 
60 
29 26 

Washin!lton 23. New York Giants 21 Miami 17, Cincinnati 16 llenver 41, Dallas 20 San !lie~t<> 30, Oakland 24, OT San Francisco 24, St. Louis 21, OT 
Yesterday's result 

Houston 16, Cleveland 7 
Baseball 
AMERICAN LEAGI)E 

East  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
New York  91  52  .636  
Baltimore  86  57  .601  5  
Boston  75  65  .536  14Y,  
Milwaukee  77  67  .535  14Y,  
Cleveland  73  69  .514  17Y,  
Detroit  73  70  .510  18  
Toronto  61  82  .427  30  
West  
•Kansas City Oakland  89 72  " 73  .618 .497  17Y,  
Texas  70  73  .490  I BY,  
Minnesota  63  80  .441  2H1  
Chicago California  60 58  82 84  .423 .408  28 30  
Seattle  ~2  91  .364  36Y,  

•clinched tie for division title 
Yesterday's results 
Texas 2, Oakland 0 
Seattle 12, Chicago 1 
Only games scheduled 

NATIONAL LEAGUE East w L Pet. GB Montreal 79 64 .552 Philadelphia 78 65 .545 Pittsbur~~:h 75 69 .521 4!/, St. Louis 64 79 .451 14Y, New York 61 82 .427 18 Chicago 88 .385 24
~' 
WEST 

Houston 82 61 .H3 Los Angeles 82 61 .573 Cincinnati 78 66 .542 4Yi Atlanta 75 68 .524 7 San Francisco 67 76 .469 t 5 San Diego 63 81 .438 19Y, 
Yesterday's results St. Louis 5, Chicago 1 Atlanta 9, Los Angeles 0 Cincinnati 6, San Francisco 2 San Diego 6, Houston 3 Only games scheduled 
Field Hockey 
Yesterday's results 
Toledo 2, Saint Mary's 0 Toledo I, Notre Dame 0 


Sports Briefs._~ 
Wrestling organizational meeting 
The Notre Dame wrestling team is beginning its 1980-81 seas~>n and is encouraging as large a membership as possible. Begmning season conditioning workouts are underway ev­eryday at 4:30p.m. in the ACC wrestling room. Freshmen are especially encouraged to begin workouts. 
The deadline for entries in the 1980 interhall cross country league competition is today. All off-campus team entries can be made in the inter hall office, room C-2 ofthe ACC or call the 0-C sports commissioner, Tom Disser at 277-8730. 
Rangers win; Royals in 
ARLINGTON, Texas (AP)­AI Oliver's 2,000th career hit knocked in the first run of the game in the sixth inning aild the Texas Rangers went on to beat the Oakland A's 2-0 Monday night and allow the Kansas City Royals to clinch at least a tie for the American League West title. 
The Royals have a 17-game lead over the A's . 
The 33-year-old Oliver, in his 13th major league season, joined Pete Rose and Rod Carew as the only active players with 2,000 hits and a lifetime .300 average. 
Jon Matlack, 10-7, picked up the victory over Matt Keough, 15-1 3, who had allowed only one hit until the sixth inning, when he gave up an infield single to Mickey Rivers and walked John Grubb ahead of Oliver's single. 
...Chief 

(continued from page 12) 
Officers said Tyrer and his wife each had a single gunshot WQund to the head. A .38-caliber re­volver was found near Tyrer, police said. Both bodies were on the floor near the bed. 
1Family members told police that Tyrer, who played offensive tackle for the Chiefs from 1961­1973, had been out of work recently, but gave no indication that he was depressed. 1 
PA 17 34 33 54 37 
34 38 34 
50 
37 47 44 
50 
44 
13 44 58 38 
65 
27 21 I 5 35 
65 
44 
45 51 48 



Tuesday, September 16, 1980-page 12
Sl'orts 
Emotional junior captain leads way for young Irish 

and Football News feels the key to
hv Beth Htiffmcm 

Saturday's Notre Dame-Michigan
Sport.r F.ditor 

game lies in the trenches. "We have to play at least asBob Crable leads by example; 
well against Michigan as we did
it's as simple as that. 
against Purdue," says the bus­
"l just try to be myself," says 
iness major that has received the
Crabk, the first junior to serve in 
Hering Award for the past two
.1 Notre I lame leadership role years as the most outstanding
"inn· Willie Fry in 1976, "and 
linebacker in spring practice.
play to the hest of my ability on 
"The key to the game is in the
the fit_·ld." line of scrimmage, both offens­
And whe11 the 6-3, 222-pound 
ively and defensively. If we can
linebackn -;peaks, no matter 
control the line consistently,
how softly, his tl'ammates listen. 
Bob Crable we'll be in good shape."

"We're an errrotional team on The Irish, idle last week due to
rhe f"il'ld." :-.aid fellow Irish line­ABC-TV shuffling, are heading
hatker Mark Zav:tgnin after Kelly. "He is very enthusiastic 
into the match with Michigan
Notre llarJte's H-10 win over and demonstrates rather than 
with few worries, according to
l'rr •titre. ·· B.>b ( :rable shows a lot yelling." 
Crable, despite the two-week
I >f" CillO( ion Oil eVery play-he's If Crable, who earned three wait.
got a wav ;thollt himself, he's a varsity letters in football and one 
"I think it helps," says Crable 
heck of a leader." each in basketball and baseball at 
of the free Saturday. "Looking
( :r .thle's captaincy talents have the famed Moeller High School back to last year when we went
not gone rlltrt·cognized by the in Cincinnati, Ohi{l, continues to 
down to Purdue pretty flat, I was 
Notre I)a me coaching corps set such outstanding examples 
worried. But we've just tried to
either. on the field, the Irish have a 
make it through last week, and
"II is leadership is invaluable," bright future ahead. this week we're working more
savs linebacker coach George The third child ofseven in the intensely."
Ltmily ofJohn andJ~an Crable, 

"Ove~all, though, our attitude
Bob tallied aNotre Dame season is very good."
reco'rd of 18 7 stops last year as a

Former Chief 
That attitude is, without a
sophomore, along with one in­

doubt, highly attributable to
terception, a blocked punt and a 

Bob Crable, and the example he
blocked field goal attempt

kills wife, 
_sets for the young Irish squad on
against the Michigan Wolverines. 
and off the field.
The blocked field goal in the

then himself 
dosing seconds of last season's Notre Dame-Michigan clash

Kansas City, Mo. (AP)-Jim 
'Breaking away ' 
preserved the 12-10 win for theTyrer, a former all-pro tackle for lrish and, along with his team­the Kansas City Chiefs football leading 19 tackles, helped Crable team, shot and killed his wife to earn the UPI Midwest 

Irish plan WCHA finale 
early Monday and then commit­Defensive Player of the Week ted suicide, police reported.. 


award. by Brian Beglane And it's not too early to startPolice said Tvrer, 41, and his "I thought about it earlier, Sports Writer thinking ahead to the season ­wife, Martha, 4owere found in 
what would happen if it came the ice is going to be put downthe upstairs bedroom of their down to a last second field goal," The opening faceoff Oct. 24 in this week, and coach Leftytwo-story ranch home on the reflects Crable, who led Notre Colorado Springs starting Notre Smith's club starts on-ice drillscitv's south side. A 17-vear-old Dame in nine of 11 games as top Dame's 1980-81 Western Col­next Monday.
so~ told police that h~ heard tackler including 26 stops against legiate Hockey Assocation sea­The biggest push ofthe Break­three shots and found the bodies. 
Clemson, tying all-America son will signify the beginning of away campaign, which ran TV,Two other children, ages 11 and player Bob Golic's single game the end, and the end of what is radio and newspaper advertising13, were asleep at the time. 
record. "I thought it was illegal to hoped to be a new beginning. throughout Michiana the entirePolice said the boy, fearful that step on your own player, so when Beginning of the end because month of August, has been thesomeone had entered the home I went up I just thought about it will mark the start of Notre sale of season tickets. Ticketand was shooting members ofthe 
stopping the kick." . Dame's last season as a member revenue is virtually the onlyfamilv, hid beneath his bed for an 
hour-before going to his parents' "I was just hoping he (Crable's of the WCHA. End of a new source of income for the pro­Michigan footstool) would stay beginning because that is when gram, and so far the results have 
bedroom about 5:50 a.m. He down after I went up." the Irish hope to start reaping the been satisfactory.
then called police. 
Crable, a third team all­benefits of an upgraded pro­"We've been surprised and 
(continued on page II} America selection in 1979-by AP motional campaign, Breakaway. quite pleased with the results of the campaign," said Mike Busick, ticket manager for Notre Dame and one of the unoffical promotional directors for Break­awav. "We have educated a lot of people about hockey at Notre Dame and we hope for that to pay off in attendance this sea­
son." 
The campaign has set goals of 2,000 season tickets to the general public and 800 to 1 ,000 for students. As of last Friday, totals showed between 500 and 600 sold to students and 1,200 to the public. Capacity for the Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter ice arena is 4,287. 
"What we are really pushing for is the mark of 800 season ticket holders among the student body," emphasized Busick. "It's their team and why do we even have it unless it can get support from them? Our goal is 10 percent of the student body at NotreDameandSt.Mary's-we don't feel that is an impossible goill to attain. We have to have their support." 
The season ticket deadline officially ended yesterday, but Busick added they will probably be available until the end of September. At that time he is going to evaluate the number of tickets left, and then target them for specific series and pro­motional nights. And an increase in promotional nights this season could spell trouble in obtaining game-by-game tickets during the vear. · "We are shooting to sell out every game," Busick said, "and if season tickets sales go well, there may not be too many individual tickets to buy in the middle of the season. That's another rea­son we want students to buy tickets on a season basis-we don't want to see them shutout." 
Promotional ideas such as a team mascot, increased use of the band at home games and group nights, such as selling blocks of tickets to individual dormitories, are all in the works. The Irish play their first home game Tuesday, Oct. 28, against Bowling Green and do not play a league series at home until Nov. 21-22. 
Bowling Green will become a league opponent next year when the Irish jump over to the Central Collegiate Hockey Association. 
Cut Branning 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) --Former Notre Dame basketball standout Rich Branning and Bob Roma of Princetown were released Monday by the Indiana Pacers, as coach Jack McKinney cut his roster to 14 players. 
Branning, a 6-foot-3 guard, was a founh-round draft pick. 





