·· ...Bama -/J(lges 9-12 

VOL. XV. NO. 57 an indt'pendem student nt'wspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 19HO 

CAIRO, Egypt (AP)-The desert dunes "in a fireball that lit cises ofabout 1,400 army troops In Washington, the Air Force 
fatal crash of a U.S. military up the night sky." and airmen include units from identified the dead as: airman 1st transport plane marred the start The plane crashed two to five the 101 st Airborne Division of Class Karen L. Marti of yesterday of operation Bright miles short of the runway at Fort Campbell, Ky. Springfield, Mass.; Senior Airman Star, the first test of America's Cairo West Air Base during a Pentagon officials have stressed Martha M. Misko ofChatsworth, rapid deployment force to banking turn under clear night that the joint Egyptian/ American Calif.; Capt. Patrick A. Welsh of 
Military 

plane 

defend Western oil supplies in skies just before midnight operation was planned well Vancouver, Wash.; Capt Bradford the Middle East. The 11 men and Wednesday, according to before the outbreak of the B. Hirschi, who was born in two women aboard the C/141 Pentagon spokesman Maj. Gen. Persian Gulf war between Iran Cedar City, Utah; Senior Airman were killed, military authorities Jerry Curry in Washington, D. C. and Iraq. They say the two-week Raymond). Bianchi of Buffalo, said. He said an investigation has exercise is to give the Americans N.Y.; Senior Airman Geoffrey L.

crashes 

A U.S. Embassy spokesman begun, but so far the Air Force the desert practice they need to Galvin of Houston, Texas. said the plane, one of several has no idea of the cruse. The live up to the U.S. commitment Staff Sgt. David L. Harer of involved in the 1,400/man plane was attached to the 62nd to defend the West's oil supplies Cape May, N.J.; Tech. Sgt. military exercises, was on its final Airlift Wing based at McChord from Mideast oil fields. Lonnie G. Hoye of Lewiston. approach to an Egyptian military Air Force Base, near Tacoma, The war has cut off oil Idaho; Staff Sgt. Gary T. Payne of
in Mideast airport when it crashed into the Wash., he said. The joint exer-production in Iran and Iraq and Clear Lake, S.D.; Senior Master the fighting threatens the Strait Sgt. Gerald]. Stryzak ofHorsham, of Hormuz, through which sail Pa.; Tech. Sgt. RobertS. Tuggle tankers bearing much of the of Satellite Beach, Fla., and Staff world's oil. Sgt. Glenn R. Williams of 
The charred debris ofthe giant Wheelersburg, Ohio. transport plane, which was The 13th victim's name and capable of carrying 154 people, hometown were not released was spread over more than a half pending notification of next-of­square mile northeast of the kin. base. 
The bodies were flown to the 

A spokesman from McChord U.S. Air Force Base at Ramstein, said "It was carrying supplies for West Germany, then to Dover the rapid deployment exercise, Air Force Base in Delaware, and that's why there were so few military authorities said. on board." 
Food sales offer variety 
kY Katie McDonnell 
men's halls and vice versa. The delivery personnel receive $5 aIn the fast-paced academic night plus a 20 percentlifestyle at Notre Dame, there commission on all pizzas delivered. 
exists one prosperous business Manager Michael Hobanwhich definitely aids long nights 
of' study-food sales. believes Dillon's sales have acquired a new look this year. 
These daily sales, offered in 
almost every dorm on campus, "We began the year," he said, "by dropping ads for the sales at
provide snacks and soft drinks at each dorm and that, with our
varied prices, which give the best nightly specials, including freedeal possible to students. The popcorn and discounts on otherbusinesses have expanded this



Parliatnent to discuss U.S. reply 
items, have really expanded ouryear in many dorms. 
profits.
Most food sales sell snacks "In addition," he1 added, "Isuch as pizza, hot dogs, potatoBEIRUT, Lebanon (AP)­in anything, and the Majlis Wednesday in Tehran, the news­even hired an accounting major chips, and soft drinks. The most
The president of Iran's Supreme Parliament) decides on their paper said. 
named Rob DeLorimier to makelucrative items are the inexpen­
Court and head of Parliament's trial, they would be put on trial in Meanwhile, Prime Minister sure our books are kept straight." 
sive or the unique-such as
Islamic hardliners was quoted a judicial court," the newspaper Mohammad Ali Rajai met with Dillon and Morrissey, unlikepopcorn and cheese for a quarteryesterday as saying the assembly quoted Beheshti as saying. Khomeini to discuss "current all other dorms, offer theiror piping hot pizza bagels. 
will have to decide whether or Beheshti, many of whose events," Tehran radio reported. 
managers the opportunity toDillon Hall, for example,
not to put the 52 U.S. hostages followers favor trying the It said the two discussed Iran's more
offers delivery service during sale earn profit by requiring on trial if the United States fails hostages as spies, did not directly war with Iraq, now it its 5 3rd day, that a fixed amount of money behours to 10 dorms on campus,to meet Iranian terms for their comment on the U.S. response but gave no indication on returned monthly to refill stock. 
with the added attraction of
release. to Iran's conditions when he whether the hostage issue was In other cases, the managers areemploying females to deliver toIran's prime minister, mean­spoke at a news conference discussed. 
simply paid a monthly wage for while, conferred with Ayatollah any sales they make. 
Ruhollah Khomeini, possibly on 
Grace Hall appears to have athe hostages, and government For Campus Ministry "booming business," according
officials were said to have dis­
to Manager Tom Jensen. Thecussed the U.S. reply to Iran's student said that Grace offers

Committee searchesfor new director 
demands in meetings through­"the biggest inventory possible," out the day. 
in a walk-in, game room
Ayatollah Mohammad Beheshti, by Kelli Flint turn recommend others who may be of use. 
atmosphere which serves the
leader of the fundamentalist Senior Staff Reporter "We are determining qualifications at this point. 
large dorm. "We offer the
Islamic Republican Party which We are trying to approach the issue as open­lowest-priced pizza, too, I believe, controls Parliament, was quoted A four-person committee has been formed to mindedly as is possible," he said. 
which also helps our business on
by Tehran's Engelab Islamic recommend a new director ofCampus Ministry to Malloy added that he is pleased with the makeup the North Quad,'' Jensen newspaper as saying the govern succeed the late Fr. William Toohey, according to of the committee. He said that the committee commented. Grace also utilizes ment would first have to judge Fr. Edward Malloy, committee chairman. members are all familiar with campus life and the students to deliver pizzas andthe American response before In addition to Malloy, the committee consists of job's dimensions. 
pays them $3 an evening.
any trial decision by the Fr. John Fitzgerald, acting director of Campus According to Fitzgerald, the committee is not For other dorms, food salesParliament. The secret reply was Ministry, Sr. Judith Beattie, Director ofVolunteer only trying to acknowledg.:-the history and provides prizes and ·publicity.
delivered to Tehran on Services, and Theology professor Sr. Verene development of the office. "We a..~ also attempting Howard Hall, for example, in last Wednesday by Algerian inter­Girmscheid. to assess the pastoral 'needs of the campus," spring's one-on-one basketballmediaries who received it a day "At our present stage of work, we are inter­Fitzgerald said. 
tournament provided the victor
earlier in Algiers from Deputy viewing a variety of people in order to get an "After these assessments, we intend to look for with a free case of soft drinks.
Secretary of State Warren overview ofhow the job has evolved," Malloy said. the qualities and skills that would be able to Flanner gives periodic boosts toChristopher. "The committee has selected all of the con­respond to those needs. We are presently no its sales by running ads in the"If the proposed resolution stituencies who they believe will have useful input where near the point where we are prepared to Observer.
decided by the representatives of in evaluating the position and anticipating how it 
the people does not really result will function in the future. These constituents in (continued on page 15) (continued on page 3) 
~---­

News Brie/§ 
by The ObJerver and The AJJociated PreJJ 
Union strikes hit L.A.as1o,o9oga~bage 
collectors, police guards and traffic officers walked of~ their jobs yesterday in a contract dispute-the second stnke by municipal employees in the city's history. City officials said supervisors took over traffic control and sewage plant maintenance in this city of nearly 3 million people when some workers began their strike at midnight. Other workers either refused to go to work or arrived and then walked off the job. Garbage collection and city vehicle maintenance ground to a halt. Sworn police officers took over for non-sworn officers who normally provide jail security. "If it extends a couple of weeks it could get to be a real nuisance to the community," Keith Comrie, the city's chiefadministrative officer, said.-AP 
Posine as a park raneer a?d 
distributing r~gious literature tn the Great Smoky"Mountams National Park, a member of the Hare Khrishna sect was fined $100. Sam Coffin, 24, of Pigeon Forge, Tenn_ was convicted two weeks ago on charges of impersonating a park ranger. • Coffin, wearing a pith helmet, khaki trousers and work shoe,s, was arrested Aug. 27 after a tourist filed a complaint with park officials. The tourist said Coffin approached him about buying a book on American Indians for $4. The tourist bought the book; whish turned out to be about the Krishna religion.-AP 
College fees in Indianacould increase 
by $22 million tf the General Assembly opts fora "tight" budget 
lor next year. For most undergraduates who live in Indiana, that 
would mean paying $100 to $120 more for the 1981-82 school 
vear and a similar increase in 1982-83, not including the 
~scalating cost of dormitory living. The $22 million figure, 
which represents a 12 percent increase in college fees, was 
recommended by the state Higher Education Commission, 
which reported that student fees presently account for only 
about 31.4 percent of all instructional costs. The Budget 
Committee is reviewing legislative spending requests. While 
the legislature has not been mandating student fee schedules, it 
does take into consideration the total revenue when determin­
ing state appropriations for university officials. Higher 
RW,)%Education Commissioner George Weathersby said the 
suggested fee increases are in line with increased personal 
income, but the higher fees would probably increase the need 
for additional financial aid for some students. -AP 
Helpi~g Ronald Reaea~ draft 
agricultural poliCies these days, Earl Butz say~e wtll not accept another appointment as secretary of agriculture. In a recent interview, Butz, dean emeritus ofthe Purdue University School ofAgriculture, said he is not interestedin the post he held under former pre~idents Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford. He said he no longer wants to face the rigors of public life, but instead wants to spend more time with his wife. But Butz, 71, has accepted appointment to a 19-member team named by Reagan to devise the new administration's farm policies. The head of the team is Clayton K. Yeutter, 49, of Lincoln, Neb., president of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and a prime candidate for agriculture secretary. Yeutter was an assistant <tgriculture secretary in the Nixon and Ford administrations. Butz, who as agriculture secretary negotiated grain sales to the Soviet Union and now regrets agreeing to some of the contract terms, said he believes the private sector can do a better job in .trra.1ging export ~Sr ~r.m commodiP.es than can11government. ''I'm very ~stic about the grain export trade." Butz said. "Butwe have to be price competitive." -AP 
Holiday air. travelers who purch~sed 
Thanksgiving anCl Christmas tickets before Sept..1 are entitled to a partial tax refund because of a change in the tax laws, the Air Transport Association reported yesterday. The association, which represents the major U.S. air carriers, said the average refund due is about $4. On Oct. 1, the tax on domestic flights was reduced from eight to five percent, and a $3 departure tax on international flights was eliminated. Airline and ticket agents began Sept. 1 to reflect these changes on tickets purchased for flights after Oct. 1. But because thousand~ of Thanksgiving and Christmas tickets, as well as some others, were bought before Sept. 1, those persons are due a tax refund. But they must apply for it, by returning their used passenger coupons to either the issuing airline or to the Internal Revenue Service. -AP 
Want a brick? Those who want a souvenir brick from Saint Ed's Hall annex will be accommodated, according to Universitv officials. The annex is scheduled to be demolished this week. to prepare for an addition to the original residence hall structure that was badly damaged by a fire this past summer. Anyone desiring a brick should call 28 3-7701. Students are asked for safety reasons not to search the wreckage on their own. -The ObJerver 
Rainy and cool today with a high near 4o. .Jood chance for rain changing to snow tonight with snow continuing tomorrow. Low tonight near 30. High tomorrow in the low to mid 30s. -AP 
Friday, November 14, 1980-page 2 
Inside Friday 


No hand-wringing here 
Hand-wringing is not my bag. As the managing editor of this publication, I find it particularly irritating, non-productive, time-wasting and a sign of weakness. We som•!times participate in it though, primarily due to our sense ofisolation and our worry that we may n•)t be reaching the reader, whom we rarely see reading The ObJerver because at lunch .time, we are already busy composing the next issue. I don't intend to particpate in hand­wriqging here. 
What occasions this report on the state of The ObJerver is an article •)n today's editorial page submitted by Bruce Oakley, a former staffer and present fufl-time employee. Read it: it's a well written, thoughtful, and healthy reflection. But perhaps it needs some background, and that is what I'd like to provide here. 
When I run to class late or miss it altogether, when I haven't shaved or my eyes look as though I've been on a drug binge, my acquaintances and professors sometimes don't understand. It's hard to comprehend what it 
hands necessary to pay for the whole circus and setaside money to replace and repair expensive equipment, are just part of the effort required just to get one paper in the hands of one reader. 
I put in at least 35 hours a week at The ObJerver, and that is not all that unusual. Members of the editorial board and the business department heads take their jobs seriously, a,nd put in a com­mensurate amount of time. The question is why? 
I can think of at least five reasons. 
The first and perhaps most important reason our people sweat and sacrifice is pride, pure and simple. Ofall collegiate dailies, only Harvard, Yale and Notre Dame publish for a student population of less than 25,000. We share with Harvard the distinction ofproducing a daily without benefit of an undergraduate journalism department. I am aware ofno other daily beside the Harvard Crifmon and The ObJerver that publishes their paper completely independent of the University: we are 

De.ui,[n Editor ..... Mar~aret 'Prep' Kruse• Design AJJisfatJ/I. . . Matt 'Admiral' Dolan. Steve 'I ain't !yin' O'Brien Mary 'I love Alfie' Dumm Day/Night Technktam_ .... Bruce Oakley. Kathy Crossett NeU's Editor . .............. Pam Degnan Copy Editor .. ....... Mary Fran Callahan Features Layout ........... Molly Woulfe Sports Copy Editor........ Beth Huffman. Gary G rassey Typists ....... Katie Bigane, Mike Monk Classified Layout ...... Ste.ve O'Brien ND Day Editor .......... Ryan 'h• maxi' Ver Berkmoes Ad Design..... Anne Fink, Woody Supplement Layout . . ..... Beth Huffman Photographers.............. Jackie Wasni, John 'Lord, Give Me Patience' Macor, Rachel Blount Guest Appearances . . . . . .. Ralph the rock lobster, Molly 'Lord, give John patience' Woulfe,and a crashed out P.C.  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame altd Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Ob11rv1r Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

.·~ 
Mark 
. ' ~ _It
Rust 
Managing Editor 
11 ..4 

our own publisher. These facts are not lost on our editors and staff. 
The second motivation concerns the challenge itself. Publishing a daily newspaper and running from start to finish its business affairs constitutes an exercise in reality that's hard to find in the ivy­clad halls of academia, where ideas and concepts sometimes insulate the academic from the harsh nature of the proverbial bottom line. Sometimes when we are having problems with our computers, printer, or circulation routes, we fail to get out on time. But we have never missed a day of publication. 
The third factor concerns our devotion to the 
written word in a 
takes to run a paper read by 12,000 people each day, filled with anywhere from eight to twenty-four pages worth of articles chos­en, written, edited and (hopefully) c,oordinated by a central hand in order to give a coher­ence and intelligence to world and campus events. That's just the beginning. 
The production steps required to put all that writing into a visually pleasing package, the business minds and society rapidly falling prey to illiteracy. We practice our own sort oflogoJ doctrine at The ObJerver: our goal is to produce prose that is crisp, colorful, correct and coherent. When we don't live up to that enormous goal, we cringe, but we don't let it .dampen our effort for the nextday. When we do live up to that goal, we accept itas the natural result of our effort, and attempt to deliver an encore performance. 



The ObJerver is our school of journalism, and that is our fourth motivation. Many of our former staffers and edito_rs have gone on to substantial positions in the 
field, including our founder, Robert Sam Anson, the free-lance writer and former Time correspon­dent. Many of us have professional inclinations, and as such attempt to make the paper as professional as possible in every area, from the way it is organized and managed to the way it looks in print. Our organization is a microcosm of a professional paper in its technique and administra­tive hierarchy. If it occasionally fails to appear professional, it is not because we don't know how to make it that way; it is because we simply ran out of time. For those of us who have gone on, or will go on to internships and professional jobs in the field, find The ObJerver serves us well. 
And finally, a sense of teamwork in the pursuit ofexcellence binds us to each other, our paper and our readers. 
lScro Discount ~ to all N.D.-S.M.C. 
JEWELERS 
Students 
SIN'(E 1917

FOX'S 
DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 

University Park Mall and Town and Country­Mishawaka 

The Observer Friday, November 14, 1980-page 3 
After January retirement 
Carter seeks low profile 
SUNDAY MASSES AT SACRED HEART CHURCH 5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C. S.C. 9:00a.m. Sunday Rev. Austin Fleming 10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. James Shilts, C.S.C. 12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. Austin Fleming 7:15 p.m. Vespers Rev. James Shilts, C.S.C.  
River City Records Welcomes an evening with HARRY CHAPIN Tuesday, December 9 • 8:00 p.m. Morris Civic Auditroium • South-Bend Tickets: $9.50/$8.50 Reserved Tickets on sale Wednesday, Nov. 12, at 10:00 a.m. at River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North, ONLY! limit 1 0 tickets per person! Call 277-4242 for further information!  
River City Records & Jam Productions Present AN EVENING WITH Tonight, November 14 • 8:00p.m. Notre Dame ACC Tickets: $9.00/$8.00 all seats reserved. Good seats still available at the ACC Box Office and River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North ­3 miles north of campus  


WASHINGTON (AP)--Jimmy Carter, soft spoken and sub­dued after struggling so long to get to the White House and so hard to stay there, sars he just wants to "live the hfe of an ex-president" when he flies south inJanuary. That means, he says, no more peanut farm­ing and little if any ploitics. 
Instead, the soon-to-be former president said Wednesday he ts lokking forward to writing, teaching, lecturing, planning a Carter Library in Georgia and becoming "a good fly fisher­
, 

man. 
And unlike Gerald R. Ford, the last man to leave the White House, Carter said he will play ''a fairly low profile role.'' After Republican Ronald Reag­an's inauguration Jan. 20, Car­ter said he will return to Plains, Ga., and stay there "for a number of months, maybe longer.'' 
He said he will begin plan­ning his presidential library, possibly in Atlanta, to house the papers and momentoes of his four years as the nation's 
. .. Food 

(continued from page 1) 
Cavanau~h stresses offerings. There, many items not sold at the Huddle are available. 
Special food sale items that come from other halls include: soft pretzels from Breen-Phillips; pizza bagels from Lyons; a unique treat called the "Du-Dah Za" from Zahm; Dainty Maid cookies from Walsh; and assorted candy, from Keenan. 
Healthy competition then clearly exists between all the food sales-with respect to prices, hours and locations. And that capitalism benefits students. because only they determine the "BFSOC"-"Best Food Sales on Campus." 
Pasquerilla regtstratton changes 
Registration times for present off-campus residents wishing to live in the new Pasquerilla West dormitory have been changed. Fr. Michael Heppen, director of student housing, announced yesterday that interested female students can register next Wednesday, November 19, starting at 7 p.m. in room 315 of the Administratiom Building. 
39th chief executive. He said he plans to write more than one book, and, asked if there would be any surprises in his memoirs, replied: "I hope so." 
He might decide to aid some benevolent or non-profit group, Carter said, but he denied a statement once sttributed to him that he might do mission­ary work. 
Carter said he will not go back into the family peanut bus­iness, which made him a millionaire before he went to Washington, because "I think it s inappropriate for an ex-pres­ident to be involved in the commercial world.'' 
He hedged that a bit, however explaining: "if my family is former president, Carter will draw a pension of $69,630 a year, in addition to a travel allowance, office expenses, a staffand Secret Service protec­tion for both him and his wife, Rosalynn. 
starving,  I'll  have  to  make  
some money."  
That shouldn't happen.  As a  

Carter said he has no desire to try to win the presidency back in 1984, and he declined to venture an opinion whether Vice President Walter F. Moo­dale should run. 
''Fritz and I actually are almost as close as brothers,'' Carter said, but "as far as trying to influence what he does m the future, I will not do that." 
He said he did "not necessar­ily'' consider himself head of the Democratic Party and re­fused to make any recom­mendations about the party's future 
Farmers may profit from fuel alcohol use 
WASHINGTON (AP)--A studey released yesterday by the U.S. National Alcohol Fuels Com­mission indicates that farmers may be able to build and operate small fuel alcohol pro­duction plants profitably. 
The report, by Raphael Kat­zen Associates International Inc., said a coal-fired plant producing some 900,000 gal­lons of alcohol annually from corn appeared to be the most attractive prospect. 
Such a plant would cost about !1. 2 million and could produce ethanol, a form of alcohol suitable for mixing with gas­oline, at about ! 1. 74 per gallon, a cost close to that of alcohol produced by much larger plants producing more than ten million gallons a year. 
The report suggested it might be profitable for farmers to band together and form coop­eratives to build and operate small-scale alcohol plants. 
But it warned that the econ­omics of small plants would depend heavily on specific conditions. 
"If a large, lower-cost alcohol plant is established nearby, the smaller farm and cooperative plant become less profitable,'' It pointed out. 
The Nation! Alcohol Fuels Commission is not a federal ~overnment agency, but is an mdependent group headed by 
U.S. Sen. Birch Bayh, D/Ind., formed to promote the product­ion and use offuel alcohol from farm products. 
CCEholds discussion 
A discussion of "Religion and Labor in the 80's: Health Care Institutions" will be on Thursday and Friday (Nov. 13-14) in the 
University  of  Notre  Dame's  
Center  for  Continuing  
Education.  Msgr.  George  

Higgins of Washington, D.C., former director of special pro­jects of the U.S. Catholic Conference, will be one of the principal speakers. 
Sponsored by the Catholic Committee on Urban Ministry at Notre Dame, sessions will begin at 6 p.m. Thursday with dinner talks by Dr. Helen Volkomener, S.P., director of CCUM, and Dr. 
Charles S::raypo, professor of economics at Notre Dame and authority lt;l labq~ history and social analysis. 
Friday sessions will begin at 9 
a.m. with talks by Dr. Robert]. Willis, Detroit health care con­sultant; Jeannine Maynard, Washington, D.C. health authority, and Rev. Patrick Sullivan, C.S.C., Notre Dame health and labor authority. 
The talk by Msgr. Higgins will be at 1:30 p.m. Friday. The meeting is the second in a series to be held in various areas of the country to develop the relation­ship of Catholic institutions and the labor scene. 
';f:tJ4d,ad EXPRESS 
1.00 OFF! 
any regular album or lope

CAR WASH 
purchase with ihls coupon.

U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North Limit 1 per person. Expires in Roseland · Nov. 1980 
•CARS • VANS •PICK..tJPSr ____ .;;;.___ 
GAS :CARS ONLY 51.30 1 I 
SELF SERVICE (Save) I VANS ONLY 52.50 11 
and FULL SERVICE 
• I I
WITH 16 GALLON FULL 
I · SERVICE AND I 
OPEN 7 DAYS AWEEK L--~A_!;!~c~u_:~ 
I I I I I I I 
.it-I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

r-
The Observer Friday, November 14, 1980-page 4 

BLftST $AM!i 

Votre /)mile' student ''psyches-up" for tomorrow's game. 

I•L-.IIL._ 

ffiiCHIANA'S LARGEST DEALER IN READYmADE & CUSTOm~ mADE PICTURE FRAmES 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
10% STUDENT & FACULTY DISCOUNT W/ CURRENT ID 
Phone:277-6617 ~ 
• 52139 u.s. 31 North ~ 
On•·Holf Mole North of t~orth Village Moll 
Mon..oy, TuoMoy, Wo..noscloy, Sotur..oy 9 to 6 Thuncloy ond-Frl..oy t tot 
Similarto French Revolution 
Reflections on Iran 

EDITOR'S NOTE: Harvard's noted Mideast scholar Richard Frye has argued that the Iranian Revolution is to the Third World what the French Revolution was to the West. Pacific News Service associate editor Franz Schurmann ex­tends that argument to show why the early expectat­ions ofan Iraqi victory against Iran may have been doomed from the start. Schurmann teaches history and socio~o at UC-Berkeley and worked or several years in the Mi 'rile East. 
In 1792 the monarchies of Europe decided to put an end to a revolution that had plung­ed France into chaos, forced its finest nobility to flee into exile, and threatened to spread pop­ular revolt across Europe. The grand armies of Pruss1a, Aus­tria, England and lesser states, all ruled by monarchies, invad­ed France, confident of a quick victory. 
The analogy to the present crisis i,g Iran may appear facile at first reading. But beyond the superficial similarities--and despite some imponant differ­ences--the French Revolution offered elemental lessons about human nature which have been ignored time and again to the peril of those who seek to cap the fountainhead of revolutionary movements. 
France then, like Iran now, was in the throes of a revolut­ion. Its armies had seemingly di~intq~rated. The !lew re':ol­uuonartes were turrung agamst each other as originally they had turned against the nobility. 
Counter-revolutionary upris­ings were erupting all over the country. The exiled nobility gleefuly awaited the coup de grace. 
It never came. Instead the 

finest of Europe's armies were 
routed by a new phenomenon 

••n-s A PIAV YOu'LL WANf
'"Sf£. 
'

M4& IMmuAJ«W. rrs A Pl.A'l tlU 
51t0lJID ~, II 
in Europe--a people's army. 
As soon as news of the invasion spread, calls were issued by the revolutionary authorities for the people to join the colors, exactly as in Iran today. Thousands more responded than were needed, just as in Iran. Aux armes cit-oyens--citizens to arms--was the first line ofLa Marseillaise, the song sung by volunteers from distant Marseilles trek­king northward to defend a country that the revolution for the first time had made real to them. 
Not only were Europe's finest armies utterly routed, but a century's military principles were thrown into the dustbm o history. 
What made the decisive dif­ference was the revolutionary spirit of the French citizen soldier in contrast to the sheep­like obedience ofall the others. 
The solgans of the French Revolution were "liberty, e­quality, fraternity." While both the French and the Iran­ian revolutions grievously viol­ated the liberties of their citizens, both also created a sense of equality where ex­treme inequality had prevailed, , and both created a new spirit of community and solidarity among their_peoples. 
The French revolution was anti-clerical and the Iranian revolution has seen a mishty revival of religion, but it 1s a religion whose greatest strength was never its priest­hood but the fraternal solidar­ity of the small mosque embed­ed in the heart of the commun­ity. 
It is precisely this sense of community, this devolution of power from the government to the governed, which ignites the rapacious hostility of the Mid­east's own "Prussians" today. Like the monarchies of Europe two centuries ago, most Mid­eastern regimes are ruled by dictatorships or oligarchies and are marked by wide inequalit­ies of wealth and little fratern­ity between rich and poor--or between poor and poor, for that matter. Thus the Mideast­ern elite hardly hide their morbid fears that Khomeini' s Islamic Revolution will spread to, and undermine, their own nation-states. 
That · those fears are not groundless is suggested by what occurred in France when its revolution triumphed. It spawned a process of revolut­ion that did spread over all Europe and into remote parts of the world. Wherever it spread, it undermined and usually destroyed the old en­trenched ruling elites. 
The countries of the Middle East have experienced a varier~ y of coups and so-called revol­utions, but none has seen the kind of arousal of the people that has been going on in Iran. Nasser's revolution in Egypt was top down. Sadat has quietly let the rich and the powerful resume their old pos­ition. Syria is ruled by a wealthy Shi'ite minority among a largely Sunni population. The Arab kingdoms--Saudi Arabia, Jordan, the Gulf emir­ates--are traditional Islamic realms that make no conces­sions to the popular will. There have been revolutions ~n the tWo Yemens far to the south, but by and large they resemble the top down kind of Marxism Sassam Hussein has imposed on Iraq.. 
The elite regtmes of the Middle East face a triple threat from revolutionary Iran: the incessant appeals of the Aya­tollah Khomeini for a cleansing of Islam from all corruption; the grass roots populism of Shi'ism, in contrast ot the traditions of elite r;ule in Sun­nism; and the threat of revolut­ion in its modern garb. Iran's Islamic Revolution is /·ust that, both Islamic and revo utionary. 
And if the French analogy holds up, a fourht threat could materialize in the not too distant future--the rise of an iranian Napoleon. 
As of now, Iran is still facing its first great test: the survival of its revolution in the face of foreign attack. By all accounts it has done remardably well. Lessons from the experiences ofother revolutionary countries co.uld have suggested this out­come to SaddamHussein before he attacked: Russian resist­ance to allied invasion in 1917; Chinese resistance to the Jap­anese and then the Americans; Cuban repulsion of the Bay of Pigs invaders who, like Sad­dam Hussein, thought a few quick jabs would bring down the Castro regime. 
SMCchooses charity 
by Diane Mazurek released Ordinary People, will be 
shown in Carroll Hall. After the 
In order to foster an awareness movie, a CAN CO will discuss the of child abuse, the Saint Mary's film as it relates to child abuse. student body has chosen the Wednesday, CANCO repre­Child Abuse and Neglect sentative~ will sponser and open Coordinating Organization house at their "headquarters on (CANCO) as the recipient 231 Eddy Street. Students are charity of the College's November encourged to attend in order to 17-24 fundraiser. familiar themselves with the . The financial goal of the drive center's services. is 100 percent participation by CANCO's major function is to SMC students and faculty. connsel both parents and children Travelling door-to-door, resident in problem families, for the assistants will solicit $1 donations organization's theory is that an 
from each St. Mary's dorm abused child is very likely to grow resident. into an abusive parent. CANCO representatives will November 24 is the last day

f«'V, 14.., 151 20, U, ~2.. provide information and answer contibutions will be accepted questions on child abuse in the through the ~aint Mary's studentWA5111~6fOt4 IWL LeMans lobby Monday and government Further information Thursday mornings. can be obtained from Donna
8~00 fM.. 
At 7:30 p.m. the newly Shannon at 41-510~. 

The Observer Friday, Noven1ber 14, 1980 -Page 5 
IU sex institute expands 
BLOOMINGTON* Ind. (AP)­Around here, they can serve up sex 127,500 ways. 
That's 50,000 books and magazines. Another 50,000 photos. Some 25,000 drawings etchings and paintings. Maybe I ,000 artifacts. An estimated 1,500 reels of film. 
Nestled in the heart of Indiana University's woodsy, idyllic cam~;ms, the setting for that celluotd slice of whole­someness, "Breaking Away," sits everything anybody ever wanted to know about sex. 
No adult bookstore, porn palace or sex shop can hold a candle to the library at the Kinsey Institute for Sex research,information service officer Joan Scherer Brewer admits. But then, they don't cater to the same clientle. 
No men in trench coats and sunglasses or heavy breathing adolescents looking up dirty words here; for the serious scholars who gain access to the world's largest collection of pornography and erotica, sex is strictly academic. 
''People who want to use the collection have to be qualified scholars with demonstrable research needs," Mrs. Brewer said. "Students have to have 
letters.  from their  professors  
saying,  'Yes,  this  person  is  
enrolled  and  is  doing  re­ 

search.' So we don't have many people just trying to come in and look. It's sort of ridiculous now, because these days they can just go down to the corner adult bookstore." 
That wasn't as easy when institute founder Alfred C. Kinsey began his revolutionary research mto human sexual behavior in the forties. His first Kinsey Report based on one-on-one interviews, "Sexual Behavior in the Human Male,'' shot to the top of the bestseller list in 1948 and made the biologist's name a household word. 
When his second report, "Sexual Behavior in the Human Female," was pub­lished five years later, there was a period when every newspaper featured Kinsey and hts research, and institute personnel were forced to answer the plethora of mail with form letters. 
Less than 30 years later, many IU professors and stu­dents don t even realize what they've got in their own back­yard. In fact, Mrs. Brewer says, the institute is far more famous-or infamous-across the Atlantic thanit is in the rolling hills of southern Indiana. 
"We get many foreign visi­tors who say the things IU is known for are the School of Music and the Sex Institute," she said as she sat in he institute office, its walls plas­tered with memorabilia and newspaper clippings with headlmes like, "Sodomy Law Reform in 50 States Spreading," and a Dear Abby column, "Parents Deeply Troubled by Daughter's Gay Life." 
Mrs. Brewer says although she makes a concerted effort to advise professors of appro­priate sociology, psychology and literature courses what's available at the institute library 
response isn't overwhelming. "I think there's a miXture of embarrassment because they don't want to feel its their prurient interest they're com­
mg up for, and involvement in their own work," Mrs. Brewer said. 
No question about it-the Sex Institute library is not for those who blush easily. The front office, its walls adorned with pictures of Kinsey-one fantasy drawing shows birds and bees hovering around his ears­seems tame enough. 
But the narrow corridor lead­ing to the library stacks is lined with erotic art: prints and original work, some done by well known artists such as Marc Chagall, and glass cases filled with artifacts, most of them just too graphic for display in a public museum. 
Then there are the books, thousands of them, covering every aspect of human sexual­ity. The library's money, all from private sources, is used strictly to purchase volumes dealin~ with human sexual behavtor, head librarian Susan Matusak said. 
"We've pretty much elimi­
. nated animal studies," she added. "There are too many people doing too many things to rats.'' 
The rest of the books, par­ticularly the pulp-titles like "Manacled," "The Killer Queens," and "Busy Bodies" that represent about ten _per­cent of the library's collection­come mostly from donations. Those are strictly confidential, and many of them have a particular social significance. 
''During the McCarthy era, there was a hish percentage of homosexual tttles donated. The same thing was true recently of kiddie porn," Ms. 
· Matusak said, addm~ that the ~ibrary oc~asi?nally wtll beef up tts collection m a popular area it might be lacking. 
"We try to maintain at least a sampling," the librarian said. "For example, when kiddie /orn was popular, we realize we didn't have the classic, 'lolli-Tots.' Trying to find that stuff when the heat is on is terribly hard." 
But they manage, even if it means sending some academic type into the bowels of Times Square, she added. 
Donated items, which might include a pair of latex under­wear or a shoe fetishist's black, built-up high heels, "come in unmarked envelopes, or in boxes,'' Mrs. Brewer said. 
"Sometimes people come in person, sometimes not. Also, we can assure donors their names will be kept confiden­tial," she continued. "Some­times a donation can indicate a sexual preference that a person would rather not have known.'' 
Such as homosexuality, or bestiality, or transvestitism, Mrs. Brewer said, taking down one of a stack of journals called ''Transvestia, '' published by a rather stout matron named Virginia, who spent most ofher days being a very successful architect named Charles. 
In a locked cabinet in a back room are the so-called "E" books, most of which are too ?bscene or too valuable to keep m the stacks. Included in that collection are several shelves of manuscripts from an oil millionaire who commissioned writers, possible Anais Nin among them, to pump out pornography for him, Mrs. Brewer said. 
Although it's insured for $250,000, and 50,000 books would cost more than that, Ms. Matusak says, and they have some rare ones, like a 17th century index of boods con­demned by the Catholic Church, and what is believed to be the only existing material from the world's first sex institute, which was destroyed by Nazis in Hitler's Germany. 
But getting a good estimate on the collection's value is virtually impossible, the librar­ian said. Experts appraise books for the amount they would be willing to pay, and "I don't know if there's a market for a lot of this sex stuff,'' she said. 
The library has a lot of what no one else wants: journals from fetishists who dress adults like babies or get their kicks from looking at bald women; former Claif. GCU'· Edmund Brown's scrapbook of photos, ads and matchbook covers from San Francisco's brothels-"a real gem," Mrs. Brewer says; and Kinsey's own collection of condoms under glass.
''You tell people where you work, and you might then be confronted with somebody who wants to tell you all his or her sexual problems, like they've been waiting all their lives for someone they could talk to about it, and they think tye can trust you for some reason,'' she said. 
MS. Matusak added, ''After seeing a fair amount of this kind of material, you may loathe it, and you may think it's the most dtsgusting thing in the world, but it loses its shock value. We might be looking at the really erotic pictures, and one of us will say, 'Look at the pattern on those sheets. I wonder where they got them?''' 

!... 

if..~:;... cOYNoTrE~a:eRU LPES: To entter the cdodntest t t •sArcqu•red that you 'iubmotda l"xS" 1ndex card w1th the followmg mformat•on 
1. u 2 • ermanen 1 ren . re you current1y enro11e '"college Yes No If ye,, whit:h collegelunt'f'enlty 
ma11ng a 3 -are vou currently attend•ng 4. Where d1d you learn of th1!. promot•on~ 5. for your pr11e, whlth mu11c 
category do you prefer (p•ck only one) Rock/Pop or Soul/)azt or Country. This contest offer begins September 29th, 1980 and endt December I, 1980. The wonner woll be chosen at random r. ­from the respondents who have fully completed all the requored •nformat•on on the 3'.'xS" •nde• cord · 
fi7Tj;
The winner will receive all new MCA album releases in his or her ca1e1ory to,. .a period of six months, commenclnaJanuary ttlI (/~ 
. •MCA AKORDS 
I rirb mt~.rwt, Jim Kmtifl!f., .ro/idts Jfl/(lt'lll sti!,flllltm·.rfiir "l!,i({lt/ "(;!Kid Luck ifl Rt~nu/' grcclifll!, Ctml. 
The Best in Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations lunch 11~00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. CloSt•d Sundays & llolidily~ 



The Observer Friday, November 14, 1980 -page 6 
Bayh considers party offer 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Sen. Birch Bayh lost the election last · week for the U.S. Senate, but a Bayh spokesman says he'd be an ideal candidate for Democratic . National Committee chairman. 
Richard Paul, a spokesman from Bayh's Washington office, r.aid, "We've gotten a number of calls from people. We're passing the message on -,there's some support out there. 
Paul said one of those backers 1s Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D­\lass. 
Bayh lost his bid for a fourth Senate term to Rep. Dan Quayle, hut Paul says the party spot may he.: tailor-made. 
'"I've long thought that if he 

,.·as presented with the oppor­
. nity he would be ideal. He's a 
.,·namite speaker, has a national 
vputation and has lots and lots 
,f friends in high places. He 

,,ould be an excellent spokes­
man for the party," Paul said. 

Although Bayh indicated after the election he didn't plan to return to politics, Paul said if the party post were offered, "I doubt very much he would turn it down." 
Bayh is in Florida until Sunday, resting up from the Senate campaign. 
Burt Hoffman, an aide to 3rd District Indiana Rep. John Brademas, who lost to Hiler, said Brademas, Bayh and Vice President Walter Mondale have been mentioned often by the media as contenders. 
Paul said he thought Mondale had "taken himself out of it," perhaps keeping the way clear for the 1984 presidential race. 
Hoffman said Brademas, a congressman the last 22 years, hasn't commented about his future plans. 
"He hasn't made any decisions 

about what he's doing," the aide 
said in a telephone conversation 
I 
1Pinocchio's Pizza Parlor open S~.4:00-ll:OO 
WATCH ALABAMA 
ON OUR BIG SREEN!!! · I Game Special $2.00 pitcher II $.40' mug I 


from Washington. 
"There are plenty ofstories his name is being thrown around (for the party chairmanship). He's not actively seeking it," Hoffman said. 
Much ofissue turns on current national chairman John White, who hasn~ t said ifhe plans to bow out. 
The 34-member Democratic National Excutive Committee will meet Dec. 9, but the next full committee session is scheduled. in February, said Indiana Democratic State Chairman Donald F. Michael, an executive committee member. 
He said there has been some talk White may run for governor in his home state ofTexas, which would either mean stepping down in the middle of another term as Democratic party leader or perhaps not running at all. 
"I talked with John (White) about a week ago. He said he would like to stay on (at his current post) at least for the short term," Michael said yesterday.. 
1 Hoffman said "there isn't anything forthcoming" soon ' about the decision, unless White 
steps down. 1 As for Bayh' s view of the party . post, Paul said, "He is clearly 
intrigued by it, but it's impos­sible to say. An offer has notbeen made. He hasn't decided one way 
Michael Molinelli autographs his book, On The Road To Selling Out, at LaFortune Student Center.

or the other." 




/ 

· J 
i 
ISAN FRANCISCO (AP)--A fed­1era! judge, saying he was Iacting to help resolve the V.S. Ihostage crisis in Iran, sihned Ian order Thursday that stays . for 90 days proceedings in 20 . lawsuits in his court involving 1 frozen Iranian assets. 
U.S. District Jud~e Robert F. Peckham said in his order that he acted on a government "Sug~estion of Interest" re­questmg that "all further pro­ceedings be stayed" for three months. 
"It is the position of the government that judicial pro­ceedings at this time ... would create a serious risk ·of prej­udicing the continuing efforts of the United States govern­ment to resolve the hostage crisis,'' Peckham wrote. 
About 250 lawsuits have been filed in over a dozen states against the Iranian funds. There wasno immediate indic­ation whether the government would seek similar delays in other jurisdictions. 
The judge said he reviewe(,i the ''classified declarations on the hostage situation of Secret­ary of State EdmundS. Muskie and Deputy Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher and Treasury Secretary G. William Miller" before signing the order. 
Christopher went to Algeria this week to present the U.S. response to Iranian demands for release of the 52 hostages. 
Peckham's action came 10 days after President Carter declared in a televised state­ment that "any action taken by our government will be in full accordance with our laws and our Constitution.'' 
A key demand of the Iranians is that this country unfreeze an estimated '$8 bilhon in Iranian government assets, including $1.34 billion in securities asnd $1 billion in gold on deposit with the U.S. federal reserve. · In addition, $4 billion in Iranian assets are in foreign branches and subsidiaries of 
U.S. banks, and about $500 ~illion is held by U.S. compan­Ies. 
Legal specialists have estim­ated that only $3.5 billion is under government control. 
The plaintiffs listed in the cases stayed Thursday indlude Bechtel Inc., S.yJvania Tech­nical Systems Inc., and Bank of America among many others. 
Peckham ordered the stay subject to these exceptions: Any party may ask the court for a modification of the stay 

Studentactorrfrom A Way Out ofNo Way givestudentsapreview of their upcoming performances. 
Friday, November 14, 1980 -page 7

Editorials 
'Winter in America' 
Anthony Walton 


November is a month ofchange, as it signals the transition of fall to winter, with the leaves falling, the approaching Thanksgiving, and the overall chill in the air that tells us it is time to bring out the heavy coats and boots, because winter is coming. November is also the month of elections, the choosing of leadership, a barometer of the times to come in the next few years. This November signals another change, a colder wind, the coming of winter in America. 
One more article on the election, at least for now. (My apologies to Michael Onufrak.) I had a lot to say before the election, and now that I'm over the shock, I have a little to say afterwards. Now that it's over and done with, there isn't much to do, but there are a few things to keep aware of as Reagan assumes the presidency and the new Congress is installed. 
Tuesday, November 4, was a good day ifyou were a white male, but for most of the other folks, it should have been quite ·a shock, threatening to the point ofdisorien­tation. It wasn't so much Reagan, as I expected him to win, as much that sealed the Democrats' fate. Ifyou are black, you can look with 
But in the upheaval and realign-
as it was the staggering proportions apprehension at the specter of of his victory, and the violent ment, several other things got lost Strom Thurmond as chairman of ideological shift in the Congress. in the excitement. the Senate Judiciary Committee, Regardless of what any number of This is why minorities have something that many whites would pundits have said, this election was something to fear, and should get not even notice, and may or may not so much a rejection ofCarter as ready for some hard times in the not endorse. Thurmond is a legend­it was a reassertion of the real future. If you are a white male, you ary opponent of civil rights and concerns of the country. Real can look with anticipation at the integration, and he is the symbol of income is down significantly, and probable economic improvements. white racism in the South, and many other things black people would like to forget. Now he has one of the most influential jobs in the country. 
I don't expect any blatant aggres­sive actions against blacks, just a period of neglect and lack of con­cern for their problems. The Voting Rights Act (which Thurmond fili­bustered against in the '60s) expires in 1982. I doubt that it will be renewed. Affirmative action and CETA programs will quietly die off as the budget is pared, and many other needed programs will not come to fruition. We will see important social programs attached as riders to other less popular bills, and important appropriations will be allowed to die slow quiet, deaths in committee. That's what you can expect from a conservative con­trolled Senate. You probably only care if you've got something to 
lose. 
Where does this leave us? I tend to think it's with an America that has taken a giant step backward, about 20 years or so. It's sad to see the gains of the 60's slowly sliding away, as they have already begun to, and it is frightening to see them face an almost certain death. It's a new day in America, time to get the important things, like money, straightened out, at the expense of a lot of little people and their problems. 
But that's the American way. There is only so much pie, ana when it gets smaller, you know who 
is going to keep their piece. I don't expect many people to agree with this, as one kind ofhas to be there to get the feeling. There are many other things that contribute to this feeling, many of which were run into the ground, to no avail, during the campaign. Jerry Falwell is already in the news, 'warning' Reagan to "keep his promises and help clean up this Christian land." Censorship will be on the come­back, not of pornography. but of books like "Catcher in the Rye," "Brave New World," and "Black Boy." There will be an acceleration ofmilitary antagonisms. There will be less tolerance for viewpoints outside of the main. It's going to be very cold for awhile. 
Perhaps I'm paranoid. and I know I'm pessimistic, but when you've watched the way things really go in this country, it's easy to get that way. The problems, especially those of blacks and other .. invisible" minorities outside of the main­stream, are often ignored and allowed to fester. The thing that scares me the most is that when they explode this time, when the riots and demonstrations begin, there won't be a congenial govern­ment trying to at least assuage the problems, there will be people like Strom Thurmond ordering out the National Guard. 
The next few years are going to be quite interesting, and most likely very depressing. I'm getting a good heavy coat and battening down the hatches. See you in the spring. 

• 
Mcinerny respotids 
If the little piece I wrote for The Scholastic under the title "The Christian Menace" had no other effect than to prompt my colleague Prof. Goerner ipto print, I would count it worth the small trouble it cost me. I only wish it showed him at his best, but perhaps with prac­tice he will improve. 
It is not a happy thought that the way he reads my little essay rep­resents his usual manner of con­fronting a text. Doubtless he was in 

Editorial Board and Department Managers

===-===Ihe_-Obsenrer== 
Editor-in-Chief ..... .1•••• Paul Mullaney Sports Editor ............ Beth Huffman 
/Jf{ PAN. I£T Me 5Et IF I'Ve GUT TH/5 STRAIGHT. 
a/HAT 'tVU'I?£ SAY!Mi IS 'THAT TIE 8fSTReAL. !5­lltTC INVESTMEMS liRe RJ6HT. · IN PtCAY/1-li N£Kjl{fJOR-I 
ilXJOS. 

the grip of pre-election emotion. I hope he is now in a mood better conducive to comprehending my prose. 
First, "The Christian Menace" was not a plea for votes for Ronald Reagan. It was-as is this rejoinder -an effort to have some fun at the expense of others. 
Second, the notion that it is "not beyond reasonable judgment that voting for one who, by his stands on welfare, government spending, and the Windfall Profits Tax, may very well starve or freeze to death a substantial number of your fellow citizens, the poorest and the oldest 
may be the sort of nonsense one gets used to in campaign rhetoric but it is scarcely the sort of thing I expect to confront in a reply which professes to call back to the upper plateaus of rational discourse. 
Does Prof. Goerner really believe that about Ronald Reagan? Of course he does. He also promotes the notion that Ronald Reagan is a abortion to be a massively impor­Dr. Strangelove who will lead the 
tant issue. I should think that the charge at Armageddon. The purple intensity with which he holds his paragraphs of Goerner's letter 
own murky views would acquaintmake sad reading now. If they him with what "feel" can mean. represent his notion of respectable, Prof. Goerner ends with a call 
perhaps even Thomist, argument, I for light. He himself provides only am not surprised that he found so fire-and smoke. 
4-t"•
modest an effort as mine too Ralph Mclnernv sinuous to follow. 
Grace Professor 
Third, Prof. Goerner seizes on of Medie1•al Studies my use of "feel" as characterizing the attitude of those who find 
Piano 
Garry Trudeau Recital Sunday 
John Van Buskirk, nationally acclaimed piano recitalist, will be presented in concert at 8 p.m. Sunday in the Snite Museum of Art. 
A native of Watertown, N.Y., he studied at the Ecole Heau Solei! in Switzerlannd, and tl).c Crane, Eastman and Julliard Schools of Music in this country. He also studied at the Aspen Music Festival and at the Franz Liszt Academy in Budapest. 

• Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor ............. Mark Rust Features Editor ........... Molly Woulfe The Obseroer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Editorials Editor ......... Mike Onufrak Photo Editor .............. .John Mac.:or 

University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Senior Copy Editor . ........ Lynne Daley 

reflect the. policies of the administration of either instituuon. The news is reponed BusineJS Manager ......... Greg Hedges 
Executive N!!WJ Editor .... Tom Jackman' 

as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a Controller................... .Jim Rudd · majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views N!!ws Editor . ............. PiJm Degnan Advertising Manager . ......... Mark Ellis of their authors. Column SJ?ace is available to all members of the community, and SMC Executive Editor .... Margie Brassil Circulation Manager ....... Beth Hackett the free expression of varymg opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC News Editor ......... Mary Leavitt Production Manager ......John McGta_l:h 
-~--~--~~-~~-~~­

The Observer Friday, November 14, 1980 -page 
Drop out, tune in, andtry again 
To those of you who say, "Cable TV is South Bend's number one cultural advantage," I reply: "No way, but it's up there." 
Cable TV is unavailable back in my home town. so when I made the move otT campus I was determined to take advantage of this video option. I have said before on this page, that I am not a big TV­watcher, and this is still true. But I do watch in moments ofdepression, and with TV being the excellent thera­peutic and recreational source it is, these moment<> are becoming in­.;reasingly more brief. 
Latelv. political depression is what ~onsumes me most. The prospect of Henry Jackson becom­ing Secretary ofOffense and wily old Stram Thurmond replacing Ted Kennedv as chairman of the lienate·; Judiciary Comittee are -;ullicient rt'asons for achieving ,erinus melancholy. Mention the name of the new president-elect and I immcdiatelv bare my wrists and reach for the.-ooarest,..Track II. My housemates are kind though, and before I can make my way to the medicine chest they lead me before our color television. They flip on the 

Christian Broadcasting Network '-~~~~~~--~-----~-~~--~~~~-~~~~~~---------·---------------j 
and leave me be. Before my eyes glaze over I force myself to con­centrate on the set picking out the WATS numbers that constantly flash across the bottom ofthe screen. At first I usually think the emcee is Jerry Lew1s and its Labor Day. Then. as things come into clearer focus. I think the show is Dialingfor Dollars. Eventually, as my faculties return. I become cognizant that the man on the screen is from God and he ne~ds to reach his goal before the next commercial. 
Immediately I regain my reason­ing processes. Depression turns quickly to anger. 
..What's going on here?'' I scream. My housemates, waiting 
anxiously  in  the  next  room,  im­ 
mediately  sigh  with  relief  and  
mumble. ''He's all right."  

..This man is asking me to prav 

with him so he can provide tax shelters for all the right-wingers in Michiana and reach his goal before the next fertilizer commercial," I exclaim, the blood circulating freely again. 
"That's enough for today," my housemates say, gently leading me from the room and simultaneously turning down the volume on the tube (lest I become violent). Soon I am my normal self eventhough I even­tually realize the people who caused my original problem are the same people who provided the necessary catharsis to overcome it. 
Yesterday though, while I was reading Newsweek it happened again. I was doing fine perusing the cabinet prognostications, but I started to tremble when I got to the 
article on the new senate line-up, 
and the analysis of a Reagan-led ~oreign policy put me over the edge. 
"I'm moving  to  Canada,"  I  
muttered.  My  housemate  took  
notice.  

"Are you all right?" he asked. "I'm going to learn French." I said lasping into hysteria. ·· 
"Quick. concentrate on the TV." my housemate exclaimed jumping up and excitedly turning it on. But it did no good. I was too far gone and it looked like electric shock therapy would be the only thing that could bring me' back. Then, my other housemate arrived home. He im­mediately assessed the situation and suggested one · fmal, desparate course of action. 
"Switch it on to Cable-2," he ordered propping me up and ad­justing the set's volume. 
"No, not that," my other house­mate protested. But after a brief argument it became apparent that this fmal, radical course was the only option that could forestall summon­ing an ambulance. 
My eyes were glazing over once again but somehow I fought through the gloom and tried to focus my eyes on the tube. Slowly I was able to make out some words at the bottom of the screen: Live via satellite. 
"The Olympics?" I thought. No not the Olympics, for soon I could make out many men and a few women neatly attired and standing before microphones talking with one another. There was a man with silver hair leading them. 
. "It's Family Feud," I gasped fighting through the delirium. But the man who I thought was Richard Dawson was holding a gavel and he wasn't kissing everyone in sight, but instead, was telling everyone when to talk. It was Tip O'Neill and I was watching the House of Representa­tives. 
At this point my housemate began to slap me across the face shouting, "The Democrats still have a majority in the House. There's still hope." 
I was slowly returning to reality. On the screen I could make out Tip and in the crowd I saw Morris Udall and Ron Dellums. 
"They're liberals," l exclaimed. And they were liberals and they were debating a liberal bill for more public parks land in Alaska. It even looked as though they were winning. 
"He's OK," my housemates re­marked in unison. "He'll go on to lead a normal life." 
Thank you, cable television. 

A messagefrom your Quadritek operator 
Bruce Oakley 

I left Notre Dame in May with a ierice last year gave me some insight errors. 
B.A. in English-and little thought of returning, except possibly for an occasional visit with friends. I certainly did not expect to be earninb my daily bread at The Obsener. 
Six months later. I find myself reviewing my first two months in the full-time labor force, two months spent in the full-time employ ofThe Obsen·er. 
It is odd to be working here, because I once read this paper and laughed -just as I imagine many ofyou now do. I laughed at the poor grammar. at the overabnndance of typos. at the headlines that many times had little connection with the stories~ at the columns of type that 
I were not properly aligned, at. .. I Well. you read the paper. 
· Yes, I used to laugh, and I used to wonder: Why hadn't a little more effort been expended, a little more time been taken to correct those errors? In my senior year, I worked here as a copy editor and proofreader ­after a summer as an intern c~py editor with The Buffalo News. I returned in September after my second summer as an editing intern at The News. Comparing my professional ex­perience with my Observer exper­
as to why this paper was no better. I no longer laugh at errors in this 
Modern newsrooms have video paper. My first reaction is to be terminals and full-time staffs of ashamed: my second, to be angry. veteran journalists. The Observer We aren't doing that much better had two outdated typesetting because we aren't trying, it seems. machines and an energetic. but But then I think about some of unseasoned staff. the things I mentioned above: a 
· non-professional staff, so few pages, Observer deadlines were late, late deadlines. My anger subsides. relative to the capacity of the 1 think about a new computer machinery. Tt·is meant that the system: a new editorial staff, reader could get the most current including an Editorial Board with 
information, but this also made only three returnees; a new secretary; producing early papers difficult. a new advertising staff: and a 
On a big day, The Obsen>er had 24 pages. Modern newspapers, plethora of new ideas. My anger even small ones, have far greater mellows into compassion. space in which to pack information New ideas tried by new people and advertising. on a new system -we were bound 
A modern newsroom can detect to fail many times as we struggled an error and correct it in a matter of to improve our product. But we minutes _ and still make their have improved. Consider these printing deadline: With our mach-changes: inery, it took too much time to • new formats for news briefs, correct errors. It was often not for the daily schedule ofevents and worth missing our deadline for for the puzzle page those errors. • the new daily "Inside" column, 
But that was last year's Observer. focusing on a timely subject oflocal There is new machinery (computer or national interest terminals and a new typesetting • a new question and answer machine) giving us far greater edit-column, bringing the reader in ing capacity. This year every story touch with persons of note in and is seen by at least three people -around this community the reporter, an editor and the • greater diversity in page lay­typesetter-who have the capacity outs: notice the differences between to edit, simply and quickly, any editorial type and news type, 
Michael Onufrak 

between features columns and news columns, or even between news briefs and standard news copy 
• 
classified ads input by the purchaser 

• 
special supplements and Saturday papers 

• 
new headlines for our class­ifieds and oursports board, to make them more appealing to the eye. 


These changes represent a tre­mendous amount of work by oui;_ staff, and quite an array of new styles to which they must become accustomed. And weare becoming accustomed to these changes. We have worked 0ut many of the kinks in our system. 
I am disappointed that the tran­sition has taken so long: I am sorry that often the best we can do is not good enough. I am sorry, too, that we have been forced to concentrate as much on the mechanics as on the content of our paper. But we are working to change that. 
And know this: The Obsen>er is undoubtedly on the verge of being an excellent campus daily. One year ago, I would have bet my life that I wouldn't be saying that for a hundred years. 
Stay with us. We're getting better. 


The Irish Extra 
an Observersports suppleme~t 



Phtl carter(22) wtllgain grace the grtdiron wtth his running abtlttie[ after sitting out four games with a bruised thigh. (photo by john Macor)) 
Tide-Irish rematch kicks -of£, tomorrow 
By Paul Mullaney 
Editor-in-Chief 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala.-If you· think the Notre Dame campus was 
unusually exciting for the week of an away football game, you're 
probably right. 
All those banners, two pep rallies instead of one, and the football 
prep squad wearing crimson jerseys during practice sessiOfls are not 
usuall) common occuqences for a week following a performance 
such as that turned in by Notre Dame last week. 
But Notte Dame's campus is hardly as hectic as this zoo they call Birmingham, which has turned upside-down in anticipation of tomorrow's nationally-televised (ABC-TV at 3: 30) confrontation between Alabama and Notre Dame. 
This is the game they've been waiting for-for years. And it's not just the students on campus in Tuscaloosa, or the residents and merchants in Birmingham that have been anticipating this game. The entire state seemingly has migrated to this city. The only thing that could stifle the Alabama excitement would probably be the appearance of Hurricane Jeanne at kickoff time. 
Alabama partisans feel their anxiety to play Notre Dame is justified. The Irish have stopped the Tide a few times in the past­something people down here have never forgotten. 
The first time the two teams met was in the 197 3 Sugar Bowl, when both schools took undefeated records into the game. Alabama was ranked No. I prior to kickoff. The Irish won a 24-23 thriller, and were selected national champions (UPI had selected 'Barna as its top pick prior to Bowl season). 
The schools met again in the 1975 Orange Bowl, and the Irish posted a 13-11 victory under outgoing coach Ara Parseghian. Again, Alabama previously had been unbeaten in 11 games and was eyt"ing the national championship. 
In the third confrontation, Notre Dame hosted coach Paul "Bear" Bryant's squad and dealt the Tide a 21-18 setback under Dan Devine. 
(conti1111ed on page 12) 

Marion-1Bama player 
Mauro: ''We owe it to Coach Bryant ' ' 
' ' 

By Kelly Sullivan Women's Sports Editor 
The last time the Crimson Tide did battle with Notre Dame was the 1976 football season. That November, a coach by the name of Bear Bryant came to South Bend and watched his team fall victim to the Irish for the third straight time. Meanwhile, across town, a local high school player by the name ofJohn Mauro was helping his Mishawaka Marian squad to its second consecutive state championship. 
Now, four years later, the Bear is getting another shot at Notre Dame, and Mauro is again playing on a team defending a second consecutive championship-this time, national. But now, the Bear's team and Mauro's team are one and the same. 
The South Bend native is a senior on the Alabama roster, and unlike his southern bred teammates, has firsthand knowledge of the mystique surrounding the biggest name in college football, the kind of lore his team will contend with tomorrow afternoon. 
"I got that special feeling watching game films ofNotre Dame this week," says Mauro. "It reminded me ofwhen I was a kid watching them on television every Saturday-they always looked so big and talented that we. all kne~ Notre Dame was always gomg to wm. Only a person from South Bend could get that special feeling about Notre 
Dame way down here." 

What transformed the former Yankee into a die-hard Rebel was the desire to play for a legend, like the ones 
he heard so much about at the famed 
university a short distance from his 
house. 

"For me to be able to say that I played for Coach Bryant is like someone today saying he played for Knute Rockne," says John. "He'll be the Knute Rockne of the future." 
Mauro plays defensive end for the Tide, backing up all-American candidate E.]. Junior at that post. The lineman is also a stand-out on 'Barna's specialty squads, and was designated captain of those units for Saturday's showdown with the Irish. 
"I've been waiting for this game for four years," he says. Notre Dame's given him good reason, in light of the fact that they've cost Alabama the national title three times in a period of five years. 
And Crimson Tide fans are not letting their team forget for one second its shameful 0-3 ledger against the Irish. They've ord~red T-shirts that demand their players do nothing less than "Kill Notre Dame", and wear buttons that claim "South Bend is known for absolutely nothing." 
In spite ofhis Indiana origins, Mauro does not feel disloyal for "hating" his hometown campus this we~k. 
"I feel like I'm a southerner at heart 
now," he chuckles. "There's more to 
this game than revenge-it's a matter 
of southern pride. The fact that we've 
never beaten them is a hurt that's 
inside each of us." 
While Mauro is anxious to have a 
shot at confronting the whole Notre 
Dame contingent, there is one green 
jersey in particular that qe wants to see 
across that line ofscrimmage Saturday. 
Irish fullback Pete Buchanan hails from nearby Plymouth, Ind., and was 

an opponent ofJohn's in Indiana's high 
school play-offs. 
"I've been thinking about playing 
against Pete all season. I really want to 
face him again. It's like history 
repeating itself, my team going against 
his with a championship at stake. I just 
hope the outcome is the same as it was 
four years ago," says John, referring to 
his Marian squad's 34-0 blasting of 
Buchanan's ballclub. 
Mauro and Alabama are not 
accustomed to losing. John's high 
school team dropped a total of five 
games during his prep career, and he 
has tasted defeat on just three 
occasions in a Crimson uniform. 
But those haunting contests when the Irish doused the Tide's championship hopes have stuck in their minds with pain not experienced since the Civil War. Despite the fact that Bryant has repeatedly shouldered the responsibility for those heartbreakers, Mauro insists it's because of Bryant that his team is preparing for this weekend with intensity of unbelievable proportions. 
"I think it's in the back ofour minds that we owe it to Coach Bryant to win this game," he adds. "Notre Dame's the only team he's never beaten, and this might be his last chance. He wants to win as badly as we do." 
The long awaited clash cannot come soon enough for the transplanted Hoosier. 

Friday, November 14, 1980-page 10
The Irish Extra 

Paul 'Bear' Bryant 
by Smmy Brasfield 
Sports Editor 
Crimson Whrte 
After Alabama defeated 

Rutgers in early October. Coach 
Paul Bear Bryant said he did not 
want to have the inscription on 
his gravestone read "Here lies a 
man who never beat Notre 
Dame." 

The most legendary offootball coaches, who is in his 23rd season at Alabama, will have a chance to erase that dreaded inscription Saturday at Birmingham's Legion Field when the 8-1 Crimson Tide faces 7-0-1 Notre Dame. 
In 35 years of coachin, Bryant has amassed a 304-78-16 record During the decade ofthe 70's his team had the nation's best record knocking out 103 vicotries against 16 losses. 
Earlier in the year Bryant became only the third coach in NCAA history to win 300 games when the Tide crushed Kentucky 41-0. 
"We're excited about the game with Notre Dame because they are without a doubt the biggest name in college foot­ball," Bryant said ."And we're glad that at least 80,000 people will get to see Notre Dame." 
Bryant is worried about the size of the Fighting Irish, saying "All their players are big. Even their defensive backs are very big. They are an extremely large team, and I don't think that is to our advantage. I certainly hope we keep them in the middle of the field. 
"I hope that they don't get too 
close to the sidelines, 'cause I'm 
not to nifty and couldn't get out 
of the way. And if one of those 
big guys hit me, y'all will probably 
be going to my funeral Monday," 
he told reporters at his 
Wednesday press conference. 

Last week's victory over LSU may have helped etch those undesirable words onto the 69­year-old Bryant's tombstone. During the game, both ex­perienced Tide quarterbacks were injured and are questionable for Saturday's battle, 
Sophomore Ken Coley, who was elevated to first string last week, strained the nerves in his right hand during the first quarter, and DonJacobs severely sprained his ankle on an option play late in the game. 
"I'd like to change the date of the game because we are so bumped-up we lost our top two quarterbacks last week," Bryant moaned, "I won't say they are definitely out for the game, but I won't say they have a chance to play, either. 
"Coley strained his hand last week and the trainer told me that it was the kind of injury that Dame and play Georgia in the Sugar Bowl. It's an outside Mississippi State but I didn't and 
chance, but it is still a chance. Namath was the only quarter­"But if we lose we're out of it, we lost so Saturday I decided I back I have had that could have but you can never tell about 
wouldn't choke on it this time," been a winner as a freshman. 
Notre Dame." 

Bryant said. "There is a real, real, real good In his own unique way Bryant would either be okay by Monday So far this season Lewis has chance that a freshman will start put the game in perspective: "It or would take about a month to carried the ball 14 times for 63 Saturday," Bryant said. is just like any othergame-oneheal. He's not well now." yards and one touchdown. "I don't announce the starting of the teams wins, one of them
Bryant said his top three Bryant called Gray an excellent quaterback until Saturday, right loses or they tie.
quarterbacks, ifColey andJacobs athlete that executes well, but before kick-off time and that "There are a lot ofteams that I re unable to play will be freshman "his passing has been below par, 
won't be until I have taken their will go to my grave withoutWalter Lewis, junior Alan Gray but we haven't passed enough to temperature and prayed a whole beating. Notre Dame may orand untested freshman Paul hurt anybody anyway." ~t" J 
may not be one of them. I felt Fields. 

The Tide mentor said Fields "I wish they were coming in better about our chances of"Lewis has played only a few would be a great quarterback by here with out that tie but they winning this game after weplays, but he is, R~9,gressing," now if he had chosen him as the stubbed their toe just like we did, played Rutgers than I do now.
Bryant said. Lewis iitarted the 

starting field general early in the " Bryant said of Irish. "But whether we win or losesecond half against LSU when summer. Fields has carried the He said the game is a big one r m going to wake up sunday
Alabama's lead was a shaky 14· 7, 

ball two times for seven yards and especially as far as the national morning and go about myand he was calling signals ·an the has played only five downs this championship is concerned "I business."Tide's final scoring drive. year. 
think we still have an outside And part ofthat business could
"I started to do the same thing No freshman quarterback has chance to win the national 
be changing the inscription for (play Lewis more) against ever started at Alabama. "Joe championship if we beat Notre his grave stone. 
Krause reflects on Bryant tales 
By Mark Hannuksela Sports Writer If there is one person on this  he's a lot like Leahy. Frank was a great disciplinarian, and highly respected by his players. They say that whenever Leahy walked  kicking team ready at the time (as I recall, they had a really fine field goal kicker that year, a guy that could boot the ball from 50  deal of personal pride.") "You know, they tell some stories about Bear. In that '73 Sugar Bowl, it had rained real  
campus who could tell you everything you wanted to know about Paul "Bear" Bryant, that person would have to be Moose Krause. The beloved athletic director who has seemingly been here forever has seen most of the people, places and events which  into the lockerroom, no matter what his players were doing, there would immediately be total silence. Everyone would want to hear what he had to say. That's why they called him 'Frank the Master'. That's the kind of respect that Bear gets from his players.  yards out with no trouble. We were ahead bya pointat the time, and if we hadn't made it, they would have gotten the ball in good field position, and could have kicked a field goal and won the game.) Well, anyhow, Weber caught the ball, and ofcourse we ran out the clock and won the  heavily before the game. In fact, it was just pouring when I got to the ballgame. But they say that the moment that Bear walked out on the field before the game, the rain stopped And it didn't rain the rest of the evening. "Another popular story about Bear is that one year, in a game  
are now only a part of Notre Dame's storied tradition. Bryant, and his Crimson Tide are a partof that tradition that Krause has witnessed, and he took time earlier this week to talk about the coach that has been a partofeach of these three games, games that have made the Notre Dame­Alabama match-up one of the fiercest rivalries in all of college football. "Notre DameandAlabama are two schools that have a tremendous amount of respect for each other," said Krause. "They have onlv met three times, but the rivalry is one ofthe most talked about in college football." "Actually, the great tradition at Alabaml started with Knute Rockne.(Here, Krause leans back in is reclining swivel chair, that look of reminiscences offaces andplaces from ages back beginning to fill his eyes.) Frank Thomas. who was a great player under Rockne, went on to coach at Alabama, and he was the one who really put them on the map as far as football goes. Bear played under him, and really was well-schooled by him. Because of the influence that Rock had on Thomas, they called him the 'Rockne of southern football.' You can see then, that their tradition .has been in existence a long time.  "I have known Bear for some 45 years now, and he is a very good personal friend, and a fine inspiration ofwhat a good coach should be, and that includes every phase of coaching. He never makes alibis, never criticizes, never complains about the oficials-he's just a great example to us all." "In all his years of coaching, Bear has won many, many honors. He is truly one of the legends of football, and has won the respect of everyone in the profession. . "For instance, in the 1973 Sugar Bowl, we had the ball, third down, on our own five-yard line with just a couple minutes left. Coach (Ara) Parsegien sent in a play that was designed to go to tight end Dave Casper, who has gone on to great things in pro ball. Well, ourquarterback, Tom Clements, went back into the end zone to pass. Bear expected us to be looking for Casper, and he was double teamed. "Our back-up tight end, a young man by the name ofRobin Weber, was also in the game, mostly for blocking. Tommy spoted him in the open, and threw the ball his way. Well Weber caught the ball, the only one he ever caught while at . Notre Dame. (I think he juggled it a bit-he was a little nervous.)  ballgame. "After the game, I went in their lockerroom, and I said to him, 'Well, Bear, we were just lucky today.' And you know what he told me? He said 'No Moose, I was outcoached, we were out­played, and they deserved to win.' Then, he went into our lockerroom, and he shook hands with Tommy Clements, and Coach Ara, and Robin Weber, and congratulated them all on a fine performance and a fine victory. "He'did the exact same thing after each ofthe next two games. I think that that's a tremendous quality to find in a coach and a person. That's the kind of man. he is." "Bear has a tremendous amount of respect for Notre Dame. When the series first began, he said that he considered it a privilege and an honor to play Notre Dame, the most presti­gious college in the country.'' (When reminded of Bryant's statement the other day, in which he was quoted as saying that if Alabama loses Saturday's contest, he would be willing to go anywhere, including Elkhart, Ind, to play the Irish again, Krause responded "That goes to show you the desire he has to play us. He once said that when he dies, he doesn't want them to  against Vanderbilt, he had a 40­point lead at the end of the first hal£ Instead of going into the lockerroom with his players at halftime, Bear went to the confectionary stand and bought three bags of peanuts and three Cokes, and went out and fed 76,000 people." "The thing that makes this game so great is that the winner will have it's choice of bowl games. The National Champion­ship is also at stake, and the winner will have a legitimate shot at that. Not only that, but when you have two schools like Notre Dame and Alabama playing each other, one of whom is usually at or near the top of the polls, the amount ofexcitementgenerated by such a game is phenominal.·· At the close of the interview, Moose Krause played Jimmy the Greek. "We are still a very young club, 1:-ut playing on the road has accustomed us to playing before hostile crowds. I don't think this crowd will have any effect on the outcome. I think we are going to go irt there as a team ready both mentally and physically, and our players are determined to win. "You know," he added, "Rockne once said that the team that wins is the team that's prepared both physically and emotionally. I think we are that team."  
"Ofcourse you know that Bear is the winningest active coach in college football today. I think  And he caught it right in front of the Alabama bench, and in front of Bear, who was getting his  put on his tombstone 'Here lies the man that never beat Notre Dame'. He is a man with a great  Fitting, isn't it, that the dis­cussion should end with yet another line out of the past.  

... 
... 
The Irish Extra Friday, November 14, 1980 -page 11 
Bone parallels acedernic , gridiron performances 

The Irish defense, led by Bob Crable (43) wt11 match up tomorrow against the Tide's wishbone offense. (photo by Chris Salvino) 
Kelly tutors linebackers 
By Bill Marquard 
Sports Writer 
George Kelly is a Notre Dame man 
through and through. 
A native of Rockford, Ill., Kelly came to Notre Dame as a freshman in 1949 after three years in the service. And that instinctive Irish blood has been boiling ever since. 
"Of course it has been one of my lifetime goals to coach here," remarked the 1953 graduate, "I just thanked God when Ara Parseghian hired me." 
Kelly began his coaching career as an assistant at St. Joseph High School immediately upon graduation, and he was named to the top post at the South Bend school the next year. 
In 1956, Kelly became anassistant at Marquette. Three years later, he moved to Nebraska, where he was a key cog in Coach Bob Devaney's defensive machine. 
"At first it was difficult to decide whether I should stay at Nebraska or come back here when Ara offered me the job," said the Irish linebacker coach. "Bob (Devaney) had assured me that I was first in line for the head coaching job when he stepped down, but I had to take that with a grain of salt since he was still the head coach." 
An Irish assistant for 12 years, Kelly has worked closely with both Ara Parseghian and Dan Devine and has been gratified by the experience under both coaches. 
"When Ara asked me to join his staff, I knew what my responsibilities would be. When Dan came in, I just hoped that I could contribute as much as I believed I had with Ara. 
"Although the roles and responsibilities have changed, I think I've been able to adapt well." 
Not only has Kelly adapted, but his players seemed to have adapted well under his tutelage, too, as Notre Dame is renowned for some of the finest defensive units (particularly linebacking units) in the country. 
"The linebacker is an integral part of the defense, a position where the player must always be aware of both run and pass defenses," explained Kelly. 
"This dual thought process requires a special breed of player, one who can handle himself both physically and mentally. The best analogy to the linebacker on offense would be the quarterback, who must be aware of the entire play as it unfolds. 
"Although both positions require much time and practice to master, 
we have been fortunate to have players who don't require a tremendous amount of repetition­they have learned very rapidly, which is why you may find some sophomores playing a lot at linebacker." 
Kelly's success with the defense, which is currently rated fifth nationally in rushing, scoring and total defense, is notqing new. While at Nebraska, Kelly was instrumental in engineering Cornhusker defenses which led the nation in 1963 and 1967. 
Kelly is also a respected member of the Irish staff off the field, his reputation as a banquet speaker taking him to as many, if not more places than the football road schedule. 
"My favorite dinners to speak at are Universal Notre Dame Nights," recalled the seasoned banquet veteran. "They really give me a chance to renew old acquaintances, and to get a feel for the attitude and thinking that alumni and others have toward the university." 
Universal Notre Dame Nights are sponsored in each of the cities which has a chartered Notre Dame Club, and University representatives are usually sent to these gatherings in April and May to help keep alumni in touch with the schooL 
Kelly learned through experience that even familiar territory can be hostile at times. 
"I remember the time I went to Arizona to speak at a dinner because Provost O'Meara couldn't make it," he recalled with a smile. "After explaining to one of the early arrivals why the Provost was unable to attend, he replied "Damn it, that's the only reason I came." 
"I really felt at home!" 
Having played the game as a student in 1949 before an injury sidelined him for his career and having coached for some 28 years, Kelly easily compared the game and players of yesterday with those of today. 
"I have a lot of respect and admiration for the legends of old, and God knows we have plenty of them here. But today's game is much more complicated and the players are superior physically. 
"I have greater respect for those attempting to become legends today than for those who were legends yesterday." 
Kelly could certainly qualify today himseH. 

.. 
By Mark H(lnnuksela 
Sports Writer 
"Ifwe were to adhere to the admissions 
requirements (minimum 2. 7 grade point 
average and combined SAT scores ofBOO}, 
our team would be all white. " 
-john Robinson 
Head Football Coach, USC 

It's unfortunate that players like Rod Bone have to read statements like that. It's even more unfortunate that statements like that are actually made, and people like Bone have to be subjected to that stereotype. 
"I don't know if Robinson actually meant to say what he did, and I don't know what prompted hirn to say that," says Bone. "All I know is that he's wrong. There are a lot of examples of intelligent black athletes in high schools and colleges. I mean look at Herschel Walker for one. He's the best freshman running back in the country, and he graduated from high school with a 4.0. Alan Page is a lawyer." 
"You can just run down the list of guys on our team, guys like Phil (Carter, Bone's roommate) or Dave Duerson, or Tony Hunter; all those guys are really intelligent individuals. 
I mean we have quality athletes at a highly accredited university. So when somebody like John Robinson makes a statement like that, it bothers me." 
One name that Bone failed to add 
to the above list was his own. Like 
Georgia's star running back, Bone 
also graduated from high school with 
a perfect 4.0. And as an electrical 
engineering major here at Notre 
Dame, he has thus far compiled a 
2.95 cumulative average; and ·that's with four to five hours of practice, film watching, meetings, and dinner thrown in every day. At USC, that might be more than enough to make him an academic All-American. 
A sophomore defensive back from 
Las Cruces, N.M., Bone chose Notre 
Dame over Nebraska and Texas 
because "we have the best of both 
worlds here. We have a winning 
tradition in the football program, 
and we have an excellent academic 
program, something Nebraska and 
Texas don't really have. I may not 
play pro ball, but I'll have a degree 
from Notre Dame, and I can do 
whatever I want to with that." 
Obviously, Bone is not at Notre 
Dame solely because of the academic 
excellence he has shown in the past. 
Otherwise, his story wouldn't appear 
on these pages. Bone is a strong 
safety on the Fighting Irish football 
team, and a good one. He has served 
as a back-up to senior co-captain 
Tom Gibbons throughout the entire 
1980 season, while seeing a lot of 
action on the specialty teams. 
Last season, Bone was a starter in 
two Irish contests, pressed into 
action against Air Force and USC 
when starters John Krimm and Dave 
Waymer were sidelined with injuries. 
In each of those games, Bone played 
the cornerback .position. 
"I wasn't too pleased with my performance last year against USC," Bone earlier this week. "I 

Rod Bone 

burned for a touchdown, and I should have made some other plays that I didn't. I realize that I've still got a lot of things to learn, and that's why I really don't mind playing behind Tom. He makes few if any mistakes, and I really learn a lot just by watching him." 
SaysJimJohnson, Bone's coach in· the defensive backfield, "Rod started the season as oi.Ir fifth defensive back, and he did a really fine job against Purdue and Michigan. (It was Bone who kept Anthony Carter's 67­yard kickoff return from being a 100-yard touchdown run back on Harry Oliver Day, 1980.} The only reason he isn't playing more now is because of that hamstring injury (pulled). He did everything we asked of him in those first two ballgames." 
"We had Rod playing cornerback when he first got here because of the shortage of personnel that we had in those two areas," said Johnson, who is in his fourth season as an assistant at Notre Dame. "We moved him to · ·· safety because we felt his talents were better suited to that position." 
"Rod does two things exceptionally well," he concluded "He runs and he hits. He has exceptional speed, and isn't afraid to hit people. He is a very talented ball player, and we are goiqg to need people like that against Alabama." 
Speaking of Alabama, which everyone seems to be doing these days, Bone and his teammates are preparing for the fourth take in this classic series. Tomorrow's is the one game on the schedule that the Irish have been pointing to all season. 
"While we haven't overlooked any of our other opponents, we've been looking forward to this game all season," said Bone. "Ev~rybody is going to be up for the game. The fact that we're 3-0 against them is going to give them added incentive to beat us. There will probably be a lot of people playing above their heads." 
"I was in the Library (that's right John, the Library) a few weeks ago," he continued, "and I saw the programs from the first three games. I mean you look at those, and it's like wow, you know. Being a part of something like that is just indescribable. It's the type of game that everyone would like to have an opportunity to play in. I know that I'll never have another opportunity to experience that unless we play , them in a bowl game, so I'm really looking forward to it." 
"We know that we still have a chance to be number one," Bone concluded, "so we are more or less in a must win situation. Coach Devine says that it's easier for a team to work its way up than to stay on top, and I happen to agree with him. That's what we're facing right now, and hopefully we'll play like we're capable of on Saturday. I'm not going to make any predictions though; that's your job." 
Walking out of his Flanner Hall residence, Bone had one more thing to add on the subject of academics and athletics. 
"I find that if I do well in school, I perform well on the football-field; if I'm not doing too well in school, my play suffers. That's why I just can't understand how a great football player can totally neglect his studies. I mean, when it comes to academics ... I just don't see how you can do that." 
Rod Bone's destination on leaving Flanner was, once again, the Library, a place he frequents four nights a week. On this night, he wasn't going over to look at old Notre Dame programs, however. He had to study. No, no test, no paper was due the next day. He just wanted to keep up with his work. 
Amazing. 


.. I • The Irish Extra Friday, November 14, 1980 -page 12 
Irish Stats Line-ups 
...Tide 
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP KICKOFF RETURNS NC• YDS AVG TO LG NOTRE DAME OFFENSE -------:,...-----------POS. NOPLAYER HT WT CL 
(continued/rom page 9)

TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 2926 1784 J. Stone 11 244 22.2 0 49 Total Ploys 606 496 Barber 6 144 24.0 0 41 TE 
95 Nick Vehr 6-4 236 Sr. 

Alabama partisan-s ·really erupted at the conclusion of the 1977 • 
---------------. LT 74 Mike Shiner 6-7 250 So.
Yards per Ploy 4.8 3.6 
NOTRE DAME 17 388 22.8 0 49 LG 
season. Their third-ranked crimson heroes had pummelled Ohio
65 Bob Burger 6-2 240 Sr.

Yards per Game 365.7 223.0 
OPPONENTS 3;! 554 16.8 0 67 c 
57 John Scully 6-5 255 Sr. 

Statein the Sugar Bowl, while top-ranked Texas was crushed by 
PENALTIES.YAROS 60-616 32-361 
I1G 64 Tom Thayer 6-5 258 So. 

Notre Dame, 38-10, in the Cotto~ Bowl. All the major polls then did 
liT 71 Phil Pozderoc 6-9 260 Jr.

FUMBLES-LOST 15-10 19-11 
was to vault NotreDame ahead ofAlabama into the nation's top spot
0 0 SCORING G 1D MT 11-PA S FG . TP SE 84 Tim Tripp 6-3 199 Jr. ~-------~~~ QB
Yards Returned 

But there's much more at stake than just revenge. Both schools are
5 Blair Kiel 6·1 200 Fr. TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 154 100 Oliver 8 015·19 0-0 0 16-20 63 FB 
very much alive in the race toward the national championship­
33 John Sweeney 6-2 225 So. 

By Rushing 106 ·51 J.-Stone 8 5 0· 0 0-0 0 0-0 30 HB 
42 Jim Stone 6-1 198 Sr. 

which makes the game at Legion Field a do-or-die confrontation. 
By Passing 38 44 Corter 4 4 0--0 0·0 0 0-0 24 FL 
31 Pete Holohan 6-5 228 Sr. 

Bowl bids will be announced shortly following the conclusion of 
By Penalty 10 5 Klel 8 3 (). 0 Q-1 0 0-0 18 p 
5 _!lloir Kiel 6-1 200 Fr. 

the game, and one would have to admit that the clash between fifth­
Barber 8 2 00 0·0 0 0-0 12 KO 
4 Mike Johnston 5-11 175 So.

THIRD DOWN5-CONV, 144-64 126-39 
ranked Alabama (8-1) and sixth-ranked Notre Dame (7-0-1) could
Holohan 8 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 6 PK 
3 Harry Oliver -5-11 165 Jr.

Percentage .444 .310 
Krlmm 8 0··0 0-0 0 0-0 6 
dictate the entire post-season picture. 

POSSESSION TIME 268:54 211:06 Hunter 8 0··0 0-0 0 0·0 6 
Most observers feel that the winner oftomorrow's game will gain a 
NOTRE DAME DEFENSE 

Minutes per Game 33:37 26:23 Courey 6 0--0 0-1 0 0-0 6 
LE 47 John Honkerd 6-4 235 Sr. 

berth to the Sugar Bowl to face currently undefeated and No. 1 
Gibbons 8 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 LY 
92 Joe Gromke 6-4 246 Jr. 
Georgia.

Zovognin 8 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 RT 
98 Pol Kromer 6·4 251 Jr. 
Nevertheless, the game stacks up like a classic.

RUSHING McGarry 7 0·0 0-0 0 0-0 6
G NO YDS AVG TO LG RE 70 Scott Zettek 6-5 245 Sr. 
This will be a game between teams that depend on vaunted rushing
Buchanon 8 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 
LLB 46 Mark Zovognin 6-2 230 So.

J Stone 8 166 820 4.9 5 73 Buchanon 8 0-0 0·0 0 0-0 6 
attacks and solid defenses. 
MLB 43 Bob Crable 6-3 220 Jr.

Carter 4 106 515 4.9 4 54 Bell 4 00 0·0 0 0-0 6 
Notre Dame has gained nearly three-quarters of its yards via the
RLB 51 Joe Rudzinski 6-3 208 So.

Kiel 8 49 160 3.3 3 80 Vehr 7 0 0·0 1-1 0 0-0 2 
LCB 30 Slacey Toran 6-4 185 Fr. 

overland route-while looking to the air for only an average ofeight
Sweeney 8 31 127 4.3 0 17 Johnston 8 0 H 0·0 0 0·0 
RCB 19 John Krimm 6-2 183 Jr. 

pass completions per game. In fact, with three regular season games 
C::.urey 6 31 127 4.1 1~t 20 NOTRE DAME 8 2316·20 1-3 0 16-20 204 
ss 23 Dove Duerson 6-3 198 So. 

remaining, the Irish already have gained 115 more rushing yards than
Barber 8 35 109 3.1 2 10 
FS 27 Tom Gibbons,... 6-1 181 Sr.

O OPPONENTS 8 10 4·4 1·6 0 5·8 81Moriarty 6 3 78 26.0 49 
they compiled all last season. 

Bell 4 5 66 13.2 2 
The Irish are averaging 267.5 yards per game on the ground, a
~ ~ DEFENSIVE STATS 'TM TL·YDS PBU FR BK
Buchanon 8 16 45 2.8 ALABAMA OFFENSE 
rushing figure that ranked them ninth in the nation last week. Notre 
Hunter 6 4 44 11.0 0 22 Crable •i09 8-16 3 2 0 POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL 
Dame has gained 300 or more yards rushing in five of its last six 
Mosley 5 12 37 3.1 0 9 Zovognln 68 4-19 3 f 
0 TE 
87 Bart Krout 6-3 225 Jr. 

games, missing the mark only against an inspired Georgia Tech
McGarry 7 2 2.0 1 2 Zettek 53 15-78 1 0 0 LT 
72 Eddie McCombs 6-4 244 Sr. 
defense that limited the Irish to 138 net ground yards.

Adell 1 2 2.0 0 2 Rudzinski 47 7-26 2 0 
LG 62 Scott Allison 6-1 241 Sr.

Grooms 3 2 2.0 0 2 Marshall 38 10-50 0 1 0 
Senior halfback Jim Stone continues to pace the Notre Dame
c 58 Steve Molt 6·3 244 So. 

Morris 2 2 1 0.5 0 2 Kramer 37 9-40 3 0 0 
attack following his fifth straight startSaturday against GeorgiaTech.
RG 67 Vince Cowell 6-3 243 Sr. 

Tripp 6 -2 -2.0 0 0 Krlmm 31 0-0 7 0 1 
He has picked up 820 yards this season, while averaging 149.4 yards 
liT 69 Bill Seorcey 6-1 242 Sr. 

Gibbons 30 1-2 1 0 0 NOTRE DAME 8 464 2140 4.6 18 80 
SE 88 Jesse Bendross 6-1 182 Fr. 

per game in his five starts. Tech held him to 85 yards on 21 carries 
Kldd 28 2-5 0 0 OPPONENTS 8 298 768 2.6 4 37 
QB 5 Don Jacobs 6-2 181 Sr. 
after he had topped the 100-yard barrier in four straight games

Rice 23 0-0 0 0 
FB 33 Billy Jackson 6-0 214 Sr. 
(including 224 against Miami and 211 against Navy). 
Gramke 23 2-10 0 

O RHB 42 Major Ogilvie 6-0 194 Sr.Toran 21 1·7 4 0 0 LHB 
Sophomore sensation Phil Carter made his first three games for a
24 Joe Jones 5-11 189 Sr. PASSING G NO CO PCT INT YDS TO Honkerd 21 4·8 2 0 1 p 2 Woody Umphrey 6-0 174 Sr. 
166.3-yard average per outing befor~ a severe thigh bruise against 
DeSioto 19 2-8 

2 0 KO 
Michigan State (a game in which he gained 254 yards) put him on the
80 Tim Clark 5-9 174 Sr.

Klel 8 90 37 .411 4 421 0 Duerson 18 1-11 1 1 0 PK 
3 Peter Kim 5-8 164 so. 

sidelines the next for Saturdays. He'll be at full strength against
Courey 6 48 25 .521 4 323 2 Cichy 7 0-0 1 0 0 Alabama.
Hunter 6 1 1 1.000 0 31 0 Lueken 7 3-15 0 0 0 
ALABAMA DEFENSE 

TheNotre Dame passing attack, which has been missing its top two
J. Stone 8 2 1 .500 0 11 0 Mishler 5 0-0 0 0 0 LE 
51 Gory DeNiro 6-0 217 Sr. 

Holohan 8 0 0.000 0 0 0 Naylor 5 0-0 0 1 0 LT 
receivers the last several weeks, hopes to regain .at least one ofthose
47 Byron Braggs 6-6 270 Sr. 

Bone 4 0·0 0 0 0 RT 
key performers for the Alabama game. Split end Tony Hunter may
98 Jackie Cline 6-5 263 So.

NOTRE DAME 8 142 64 .451 8 786 2 Autry 4 0-0 0 0 0 
return after missing the last two games with an ankle sprain. He still
RE 39 E.J. Junior 6-3 237 Sr.

OPPONENTS 8 198 95 .480 9 1016 6 Buchanon 4 0-0 0 0 0 

LLB 50 Randy Scott 6-1 211 Sr. 
heads the receiving chart with 20 catches for 267 yards.

Clasby 3 0-0 0 0 0 
MG 91 Warren Lyles 6-2 253 Jr. 

Tight end Dean Masztak, out the last five weeks after pacing the
D. Boushko 2 0-0 0 0 0 
RLB 90 Thomas Boyd 6-3 212 Jr. 

Irish in catching in '79, remains questionable this week. He suffered a 
Putzstuck 0-0 0 0 0 
LCB 18 Ricky Tucker 6-0 171 Sr.

RECEIVING G NO YDS AVG TO LG Fasano 0-0 0 0 0 
severe ankle sprain the week prior to the Miami game. Veteran
RCB 43 Mike Clements 6-0 179 Sr. 

Masini 0-0 0 0 0
Hunter 6 20 267 13.3 1 57 ss 15 Tommy Wilcox 5-11 182 So. flanker Pete Holohan has taken over much of the leadership of the Brown 0-0 0 1 0
Holohan 8 16 247 15.4 FS 9 Jim Bob Harris 6-2 188 Jr. receiving corps with 16 grabs for 247 yards.
Vehr 7 7 95 13.6 a ~l Mosley 0-0 0 0 0 Mosztok 3 6 76 12.7 0 28 
They'll be the targets for ~ither freshman Blair Kiel or senior Mike Sweeney 8 4 21 5.2 0 9 NOTRE DAME M2 69-295 30 12 2 
Courey at quarterback this week. Kiel started his fifth straight game
Tripp 6 3 31 10.3 0 17 OPPONENTS 1125 52-185 21 10 0 
against Tech, but Courey played much of the second half and 

J. Stone 8 3 29 9.7 0 10 
completed four of eight passes for 45 yards in his longest duty stint · 
Corter 4 2 12 6.0 0 9 'Includes solos and assists 
Irish Extra Staff 

since he started the Michigan State game. M. Boushko 7 14 14.0 0 14 
Buchanon 8 2 -6 -3.0 0 0 
"We'll probably prepare both Kiel and Courey again this week," Devine says. "They both played well for the most part Saturday-we
NOTRE DAME 8 64 786 12.3 2 57 PUNT RETURNS NC1 YDS AVG TO LG OPPONENTS 8 95 1016 10.7 6 45 
simply had too many execution errors that hurt us." Duerson 17 125 7.4 0 22 
EditorandDesign 

Notre Dame's defense has been nothing short of sensational the 
Krlmm 10 66 6.6 0 19 
last four weeks. The Irish gave up only one first down and 10 total 
Toran 2 19 9.5 0 11 INT. RETURNS NO YDS AVG TO LG Gibbons 1 1.0 0 
yards in the second half against Georgia Tech. They now have not
1 Zovogn1n 0 0 0.0 0 
Beth Huffman given up a touchdown in the last 16 quarters-and haven't allowed a 
Krlmm 2 67 33.5 49 
rushing score in 20 periods.

2 55 27.5. 1 53
Gibbons NOTRE DAME 30 211 7.0 1 22 Duerson 21 21.0 0 21 OPPONENTS 19 153 8.1 0 39 
All-America linebacker Bob Crable accounted for 20 tackles 

Toran 10 10.0 0 10 
against Tech, while all-star senior end Scott Zettek made 16 others, 
Staff 

Zovognin 6 6.0 0 6 
five for lost yardage. Notre Dame will rank among the nation's
PUNTING GNC YDS AVG LG
Masini 6 .6.0 0 6 
leaders this week in rushing defense (96.0 yards per game), total 
::>eSiato 1.0 0 Klel 8 <12 1712 40.8 69 
Mattllilan defense (233.0 yards per game) and scoring defense (10.1 points per 
NOTRE DAME 9 166 18.4 2 53 NOTRE DAME 8 42 1712 40.8 69 
game). · OPPONENTS 8 43 5.4 0 20 OPPONENTS 8 !i8 2284 39.4 69 
(continued on paf(e 17) 
Grid Picks 
1980 


Paul Mullqney Be1h Huffman Michael Ortman Kelly Sullivan Frank LaGrotta Craig Chval Brian Beglane Bill Marquard Gary GraJJ/1.)1Editor-in-Chief Sp<•rtJ Editor AJJoc. SportJ Editor Women'J Sp. Editor SportJ Wfller Spor/J WrJier SportJ Writer SportJ Wrller SportJ Writer 
lD-36, .660 78·28, .736 

72-34, .680 78-28, .736 74-32, .699 71-3J • .708 76-30, .717 lJ-31• .708 77-29•. 727 
Dogs by 3 Dous by 2 Dogs by 2 Dogs by 6 Dogs by 2 Dogs by 6 Uogs by 8 Dogs by 7 Dogs by 3
Princeton at Yale 

CMU by 5 Broncos by 9 Broncos by 3 Broncos by 3 Broncos by 2 CMU by 3 CMU by 6 Broncos by 1 Broncos by 1 Virginia at North Carolina 
Central Mich. at \Vestern Mich. 

Heels by 4 Het•ls by 15 Heels by 17 Heels by 8 Heels by 3 Heels by 11 Heels by 6 Heels by 13 Heels by 2 Nebraska at Iowa State 
Huskers by 7 Hu<-kers by 10 Huskers by 19 Huskers by 21 Huskers by 7 Huskers by 14 Huskers by 17 Huskers by 17 Huskers by 7 Purdue at Michigan 
Wolves by 3 Boilers by 7 Boilers by 2 Wolves by 3 Wolves by 6 Wolves by 4 Wolves by 4 Wolves by 3 Wolves by 9 Ohio State at Iowa 
Bucks by 10 Bu<ks by 20 Bucks by 25 Bucks by 17 Bucks by 10 Bucks by 17 Bucks by 15 Bucks by 23 Bucks by 8 Missouri at Oklahoma 
Tigers by 1 • Socners by 3 Sooners by 12 Sooners by 7 Tigers by 3 Sooners by 9 Tigers by 9 Sooners by 7 Sooners by 16 Washington at Southern Cal 
Trojans by 2 TroJans by 2 Trojans by 9 Trojans by 12 Huskies by 1 Trojans by 20 Trojans by 6 Trojans by 10 Trojans by 4 Navy at Georgia Tech 
Middies by 13 Mic'dies by 8 Middies by 6 Middies by 10 Jackets by 3 Middies by 12 Middies l>y 8 Middies by 13 Middies by 5 Penn St. at Temple 
Lions by 10 lior~s by 15 lions by 9 Lions by 12 lions by 17 lions by 9 Lions by 21 lions by 13 Lions by 49 Florida at Kentucky 
Gators by 7 Florida by 5 Gators by 12 Gators by 14 Gators by 3 pators by 5 Ga,tors by 14 Gators by 10 Gators by 6 Colcorado State at Brigham Young 
Cougars by 5 Cougars by 7 Cougars by 13 Cougars by 16 csu by 7 C9ugars by 22 Cougars by 7 Cougars by 23 Cougars by 64 Georgia at Auburn 
Dogs by 6 Do~'" by 5 Dogs by 4 Dogs by 9 Dogs by 7 Tigers by 2 Dogs by 16 Dogs by 13 Dogs by 25 Louisiana State at Mississippi State 
Tigers by 1 Dogs by 6 Dogs by 9 Dogs by 4 Dogs by 3 Tigers by 10 Dogs by 9 Dogs by 6 Dogs by 1 Baylor at Rice 
Bears by 10 Bears by 10 Bears by 10 Bears by 20 Baylor by 13 Bears by 25 Bears by 21 Bears 10 Bears by 36 Notre Dame at Alabama 
Irish by 4 lrisl1 by 4 Irish by 4 Irish by 4 Irish by 4 • Irish by 4 Irish by 4 Irish by 4 Irish by 4 


Features 

:I 
REEl. REVIEWS 

Confirming the offbeat nature of this fall's films, the movie Fade to Black manages to be both offbeat and bad at once. The film is a fairly run of-the mill examp!e of the psycotic school of film making. The central story, despite some new twists, should be familiar to anybody who spent a good portion of their youthhoods in front of the tube watching late-night horror flicks. The central looney is a fellow named Eric Binford. Cast in this role is the versatile teen heart throb, Dennis Christopher, best remembered for his Italy-infatuated kid in Breaking Away. His performance is adequate, however I get the feelin~ he may have seen Anthony Perkms in the shower once too often. 
Binford exists as a relative hermit in the vast suburban sprawl of Los Angeles. He has few if any real pals, and his personality is hest described as minimal. His occupa­tion is delivering movie supplies around the city. This dovetails nicely into his sole interest in life­movies. His only reason for living his superfluous life is to see movies (he does'nt sport a tan) and to expand his mental collection of trivia. For excitement he engages in the favorite pastime of lonely, self abusive males everywhere-he fan­tasizes about the celluloid sirens he sees on the big screen. 
The writers' efforts to make Binford bizarre and eccentric are a bit too contrived. Supposedly, his idols are Marilyn Monroe(a logical c4oice­read on), Hopalong Cassidy(he goes for those cowpokes), and CodyJarrett(not remembered as the char­acterJimmy Cagney played in White 
HetJI). The combination is just to bizarre even for a loon like Bmford. The audience is able to emphasize 
with Binford for awhile. At work, he's got your ,atypical mean, nasty boss. The kind whoeats employees for Breakfast and b1.rps them during the coffee break. Eventually Binford is heaved from the co'Dpany. Things are little better at he .1e; the invahd aunt he lives with '"'ould make a good poster child for ,i~e old peoples euthanasia movement She constan­tly hassles and haggles him about hrs cinematic obsession. The last straw is when our introverted hero asks a Marilyn Monroe look alike out and she, in the grand female tradition, stands him up. This whigs poor Eric out and he spends the rest of the movie erradicating all those in his life who have given him grief. 
Undoubtedly, it was the producers intentions to create a number of sinister terrifying scenes that would hopefully leave the viewers as so much quivering jello in their seats. Instead the best of them are cracker like bland, and the worst are amusing for all the wrong reasons. 
Popular in the fifties, the P.sycho genre of films definitely wrll not experience a resurgence behind the likes ofFade to Black. One freuently finds oneself saying I've seen this before. Not only because the producers intentionally included scenes from old classics to give the film it's flavor, but also because the basic plot is a common one. The · idea of taking a creature dedicated to a celluloid existence and ~etting scary is not a bad one. It's JUSt to bad they couldn't have come up with some more innovative plotlines. The potential was there. 
Overall, look for Fade to Black on 
T.V. very soon. It might make an effective diversion from homework. As for the theatre, unless you're a psycho affectionado, avoid this one. 


To be avoided A real snoozer As exciting Worth seeing,· Not to be at all costs as knitting a solid effort missed, a classic 

Notre Dame Prof Not a _Bootlegger 
The world of news is a fascinating . The professor's saga begins inno­world. · cently enough. Recently he converR'Y 
Just one word in the news world ed low proof alcohol to high proof yields a tremendous amount of alcohol, which can be utilized for power--so learned Dr. James Kohn, fuels. But what is unique about a Notre Dame professor of Chemical Kohn's work is that he discovered an Engineering. Unfortunately·, Kohn energy efficient way for fermenting learned of journalism's power the the alcohol. He built a solar still to hard way. the needed for his distillation procedure. Surely such art innovative technique ments me­dia coverage. 

Notre Dame always likes to publi­cize its triumphs as does any university. So the office of Informa­tion Services, which continually is on top of the news and the inside line of University doings, wrote an excellent 
press release--detailing Kohn's use of the sun to create alcholic fuel. One flaw, however, centering around the use of just one word surfaced. 
·The press release's lead read: 
''A Notre Dame professor of Chemical Engineering has designed a solar still to make moonshine while the sun shines." 
F :ict is Kohn was not making moonshine; his alcohol was hardly consumable. According to the pro­fessor, the author of the press release used the term to ''catch the public's attention." 
~he wire ser:vices c~stomarily pick 
· up rmportant, mterestmg or unusual news releases, puts them into article form and dispatches them to the nation's newspapers, in \\'hich they 
can appear in by breakfast time. United Press International took a liking.to Notre Dame's press release, detathng Kohn's work, and sent it out on their wire. The next day, wver 20 of the nation's largest news­papers, including the Atlanta Consti­tution, Mzlwaukee Courier journal, Washington Constitution, Indianabo­
lis Star and the South Bend Tn'bune 
all ran stories. The angle they took 
their stories from, however, was that 
a Notre Dameprofessor was making 
moonshine with sunshine. 
Due to the enormous exposure, 
Kohn soon received a phone call 
from the Federal 'Alcohol, Firearms 
and Tobacco Agency, which regu­
lates the three aforementioned 
items. The government officials 
wanted to know if Professor Kohn 
had a license to make moonshine. 
Kohn explained, however, that his 
alcohol is not consumable; it is 
added to gasoline. "The articles 
made me out as bootlegger," the 
professor commented. 
But admit it. If the press release 
had read: 
A Notre Dame professor has designed a solar sttl! to covert low proof alcohol to high proof alcohol that can be usedfor fuel. 
That does not grab a reader like 
moonshine and sunshine do, for 
moonshine connotates visions of 
bootleggers and bathtubs. And that 
will sell newspapers. Oh, the trouble 
one word can cause. 
The world of news is a fascinating world. 
Mary Fran Callahan is a sophomore English major from Park Ridge, IL and is a member of The Observer's news staff 



l I 
Features 
Friday, November 14, 1980-page 14 
LETTERSTOALONELlTGOD 
en A Patriarch Dies 


He was an aged man, as frail as the sere, yellow leaves sailing on the November winds; but he was not old. as Whistler's mother or the Ancient Mariner are old. He was too sharp to seem inwardly old, thou~h he may have played the geriatrics game. He may have fumed and fussed and even cried sometimes as his body wore out like a threadbare coat. He may have beev enraged at his own helplessness when other people, in deference to his years, made decisions for him. But there was a spiffiness in the way he dressed· then~•was a hidden agenda of the ~ind--where facts sometimes got mislaid, but were never lost--by which he could keep peoples' preten­sions separate from his judgment of who they really were; there was a wit detached· from self-pity, with which he could complain of the axe of time being levelled against the roots of his personal mortality; there was a naughtiness in his love for Scotch and discreet gossip, there was a delicate elegance about him like a Senior's on hts way to a prom, that kept Professor Fenlon, as I saw him, the puer aeternus of Notre Dame. I knew Paul best through the descriptions of his friends, but frQ,m what they say, he seemed puer aeternus; and in addition to puer aeternus, he was a patriarch as well. On Monday, at Sacred Heart 
Church, he was given a patriarch's funeral. 
Patriarchs, almost by definition, are few in number. They are the grand-daddies of the place, who worked here long before Nr•tre Dame students ever boasted of being Number One. They are our ances­tors, as essential to Notre Dame as tht! earth on which our buildings cast their shadows. When patriarchs die, an emotion of insecurity can touch us as though, while we were gazing into light at the Grotto, a sudden gust of ni!•ht wind from the lake caused the cat~dles to flicker, and we wonder wbo is left to be the keeper of the flame. Who will tell us the stories of our family history, and who will explain the meaning behind our rituals? Who will recite the names of ouir great ones? Who will keep our 
pa:>t alive and its memory green? 
When a patriarch dies after ill­ness, as Professor Fenlon did, a loving friend sits at h~s bed~i?e, reading poetry alou_d whll_e awam_ng th(: death. As a pnest mtght rectte his breviary, or as a nun might say her beads, a student reads poems as a comfort t;o an old man raging against the dying of the light, in tones so sweet and solemn that they ma.ke language holy. The Church itsdf has nothing more blessed to offer than the truths poets know: 
Bi~td us in t£me, 0 seasons clear, and awe. 0 minstrel galleons of Carib fire, bequeath us to no eartb shore unt£1 is answered in the vortex ofour grave the seal's wide spindrzft gau toward paradise. 
'When the breathing is hushed, the student closes the book, say. a Hail Mary, and calls the nurse. Knowing th~Lt every night of his life, Paul Fe.rtlon said a Hail Mary before bedtime, asking Our Blessed Lady to ke<!p Sorin Hall safe from frre, the student friend, standing with his hands clasped, prays the Hail Mary 
PHOTOGRAPHY CONTEST 
(sponsored by Observer Features/Photography Depts.) 
PRIZES: 

First prize -$25 Second-· $15 Third-$10 Honorable Mention-$5 
RULES: 

!) Contest is open to all Nl)/SMC students except paid campus publication ;photographers. 
2)-Pictures must be in black and white, 5"X7" to 8"XlO". Negatives should be available ifphoto is selected for publication. Winning photos will be published in a special Observer midpoint Dec. 9 
-)) Open theme. Photos will he judged for their originality, aesthetic appeal and technical quality by the Features and Photography Depts. 
Submit entries by Dec. 2 to The Observer, c/o Features. Please write your name, address and phone number on the back of each photo. 
4) Enclose a self-addressed envelope, large enough to return photos, with your entry. All decisions are final. 
for his beloved pr01 essor as a final goodnight, so that his sleep might be free from the fear f alarms. 
When a patric ch dies, priests move through thf' aisles of Sacred Heart Church in long, white line. Some of the pr ~sts present are themselves patriarchs, venerable in the faith. You wonder how many times they have walked in long, white lines commerating the dead, young and old. You remember earlier times, when the choir dress for funerals was cassock and surplice under the Holy Cross cape. As we grow older, deaths seem more real than births; so many friends have gone before us, that we find our­selves wondering how our funerals will compare. Some priests say thay don't care what their funerals will be like; but I care a great deal. Whenever I am part of the long, white line of con-celebr?.nts, I find myself playing the game of "Com­parative Funerals'' as a kind of holy distraction. 
It was the kind of late November afternoon, a friend said, that Profes­sor Fenlon would have loved. It was nipping cold as we walked with the body past St. Mary's lake, to the cemetery behind Holy Cross Hall. There were leaves underfoot, and bright leaves still hanging to the trees as we passed through the woods through the woods on St. Mary's road. The year was cheerful in the colors of its dying, as jaunty as an old professor on his way to a faculty tea. 
When a patriarch dies, there is a gentle edge to the grief. In years and experience, the patriarch is a very 
and. 
play. IIIt~rJrn:lu reputation­aC11tde~tnically and professionally. admit· she iS always 
~#taking risk.s:~ 
:}k 
.The play tells of the early days of Sojourner "J'ruth, a black woman who opposes The drama marks the emotional milestones of Sojourner's . life such as auctions, slave huts, fiel~ Wwork, and the nw;ter/slave relation­.+~hip. The east; with one exception, is 


Rev. Robert Griffin 
old man; but in the adventure caHed death, he is young like an astronaut sent to explore the heavens. Having heard the immortal promises more times than the rest of us, Paul has gone to find the ways that they are true. Our final word on his behalf was a singing of the Ave Maria. The afternoon was dying, the season was dying; but our song was lovely with hope: resurrection, for us, in' that cemetery at the edge of the woods, was as certain as sunrise, as 
predictable as April. 

After the burial, tales of the Patriarch were told at dinner. Like most of the rest ofPaul Fenlon's life, I know about those stories from hearsay, because I wasn't there at the University Club. The events that happened were as old as myth: friends shared with each other their Paul Fenlon stories; and at that memorial meal, the living truth of a man's life began to be shaped into his legend, to be told like the tales of a testament for as long a time as his tribe gives its patriarchs places of honor. 
A man becomes immortal, in a 
Community, for as long as the 
Community is immortal. A man's 
story, if he is a patriarch, becomes 
part of the truth ofa place. At death, 
a person's life is revealed to u~, as 
his friends come forward to tesnfy to 
his greatness. For a teacher like 
Professor Fenlon, his last lesson may 
be his greatest. From where I stand, 
a little distant from his close 
acquaintance, it seems eardy to be a 
lesson ofhis being faithful htmself to 
the traditions of the patriarchs who 
went before him. 

junior said, ••Jt has been an enlGtn:l.OllS. ,.. challege to crawl inside anottter to see the world from the viewpoint. What is amazing that once you analyze and en1~.thii~e;;.J; skin color becomes nothing. .t>d,oes:n't 
.matter if aperson is black or 
..::${" 

The actors in the play extensively researched the dialect, music, .literature and social climate of the era. The cast even attended churches together. 
Jensen has used the Brechtian presentational style. in her direction. The set apd lights designed by senior theatre major Brian Wolfe express in a Brechtian style, and Sue Seid Martin, music coach has emphasized the black gospel sounnd which is an integral part of the production. 
This play is in competition in the 
American College Theatre Festival .... 
the Rose Bowl of collegiate theatre. 
Running Nov. 14, 15, 20, 21 and 22. 
performances begin at 8 p.m. in 
Washington Mall. Admission is $2.50~ 


The Observer __ _ __ --===-=== 
I 
Friday, November 14, 1980 -'page 15

Weekend 
Campus 
FRIDAY, NOV. 14 

• 2 p.m. -g.k.c., 50th anniversary, with rufus ranch, library aud. 
• 5:15 p.m. -mass and supper, bulla shed. 
• 7, 10: 15 p.m. -film, "the deer hunter," engr. aud. 
• 
8 p.m. -concert, frank zappa, ace. 

• 
8 p.m. -theatre, "a way out of no way" by julie jensen, wash. hall. 

• 
8 p.m. film, 


"mountains southern style," · o'laughlin aud. 
• 
9 p.m. -nazz presents "next," in Iafortune ball­room. 

SATURDAY, NOV. 15 

•to 
a.m. -alpha phi omega gathering, nieuwland first floor . 


•. .\:A'>~·P.Jl1. -football, irish vs. alabama. 
• 
5:30 p.m. -banquet, alpha phi omega, university club. 

• 
8 p.m. -theatre,. "a way out of no way" wash. hall. 

• 
9 p.m. -nazz, molly deschryver, Iafortune base­ment 

• 
11 p.m. -nazz, dan osborn, basement, Iafortune. 

SUNDAY, NOV. 16 


• 
1-7 p.m. -charisma tic day of renewal, o'hara-grace. 

• 
2:30 p.m. film, "wilderness trails", carroll hall, smc. 

• 
8 p.m. -piano concert, john van buskirk, library aud. 

• 
8 p.m. poetry reading, snite aud. 


... Ministry 
( co"ti"ued from paxe 1) 
discuss names," he explained. 
"The process of evaluating the position should be complete by Thanksgiving," Malloy said. "Between. Thanksgiving and Christmas we will assess in­dividual people for the position. We will recommend names to the Provost bv Christmas." 
The Provost will make the final decision with the approval of the University president. 
"The successor should be named sometime next semester," Malloy said. "Fr. Fitzgerald will have the job throughout this academic year," he concluded. 
Law school 
holds discussion 
A discussion of activities in the 
U.S. Attorney General's office has been scheduled by John H. Shenefield, associate attorney attorney general, for 12: I 5 p.m. on Friday, November 14, in Room 115 of the University of Notre Dame Law School. The talk is sponsored by the Thomas ]. White Center on Law and Public Policy and is open to the 
public. 
Before assuming his present position last year,' Shenefield served as assistant attorney general in the Justice Department and deputy assistant attorney general in the Antitrust Division. ' 
Molarity 
IT HA5N'T ~OTTEN 
THRO~H YOUR HEAD YET -mAT WJHEN HAVe Pl-AYED IMPORTANT 
ROLES IN HI'5TDRY 

Peanuts 
SO VOU SA'{ '(OU WERE 
IN THIS PLACE CALLEV 
''T~E BIRDBATH" DRINKING ROOT BEER WHEN T~ESE 


ACROSS 31 Bizarre 53 Handsome 1 Skittered 32 "Canned" 55 La fllle 5 Nosesout 33 Macadamize 56 Undercut 
10 Rosy view 34 Wid~ plus 57 Effluvium 14 Where a 38 Wield 58 Dressed tower leans 39 Snoop 59 Conduit 15 Ring used 40 Puff out 60 Convulse 
Ina game 41 Letter with laugh· 16 Arkin opener ter 17 High plus 42 A Starr 20 Anxiety 43 Bottle DOWN 21 Makes by size 1 WW I plane 
hand 44 Board 2 Ms Damita 22 Samovars piece 3 Proponents: 23 "Yes-" 45 Julep suff. 24 Gentry flavoring 4 Rum drink 
type 46 -time 5 Steed 27 Of a period (singly) 6 Guys 28-stand· 49 Gulfweed 7 -alone still area (solo) 8 "lch bin-. Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: Berllner" 

9 Fencing thrust, old style 
10 -eye (intends) 11 King of Norway 12 Breathe 
hard 13 Tight and wide 
18 Castle feature 19 USSR river 
23 Ms Dunne 
I 
•..;ito­

•./it): . . . . &--~
..At&J'*p•;r, ~· ll-, ~ . 
..4J J 7iiWIJ111-~t.GIJISfr•as
l!f/1,61~0/SON AT IRONW1..XJD IN SOUTH BEND 
hair designs for the aware man and woman 
STUDENT SPECIAL 
MON-TUES-WED. onlv 
FREE REDKEN CONDITIONER WITH HAIRCUT & AIR-DRY STYLE 
@REDI<EN® 
HOURS mon-8:30-5:00 · fri-8:30-6:30 .tues-wed-8:30-5:30 sat· 8:00-4:00 thurs-8:30-8:30 
phone:234-676/ 
24 Alone, on stage 
25 Having some re­semblance 
26 Downright 27 Be 28 To any 
' degree29 Ballroom dance 30 Shakespear­ean forest 
32 Deck out 35 By surprise 36 Congo 
feeder 37 Potential raisins 42 Washing 43 Construc­
tion member 44 Strode back and forth 45 Role for Bea Arthur 46 Energy 
cartel 47 Zero 48 Ms Raines 49 Pack 50 Person 51 Koran 
chapter 52 Start of an anthem 54 Neighbor of Eng. 
THEV STARTED TO GET INSULTIN6, AND THAT'S WHEN IT HAPPENED, HUH? THAT'5 WHEN S~E DID IT? 
The Daily Crossword 


Michael Molinelli 

THAT'S WHEN 11ARRIET 
HIT THE BLUE JA'< IN THE FACE WITI1 THE ANGEL FOOD CAKE! 

The Observer Friday, November 14, 1980 -page 16 
Re-entry 
draft 
begins 

New York (AP)-The Chicago Cubs opened major league baseball's fifth re-entry draft of veteran free agents yesterday by selecting catcher Dave Roberts, formerly of the Texas Rangers. 
The Cubs owned the opening selection because they had the poorest record in the National r,eag'ue last season. 
The Seattle Mariners, with the worst American League record, chose next, anc.l selected catcher Jim Es.-i:!n. 
... . The t\Jew York Mets were third in the draft rotation and chose ~Jugging outfielder Dave Winfield, whc' figu rec.l to be the most sought-after player among the 4H eligibles in today's draft. Winfield is on record as 

Over Stanford 

Alumni ta.kes soccer crown 
hy Cbrir f'!·h·c:dle.r ·Sj}()rt.r Wrdcr 

A goal from five yards out by freshman winger Jack Eisenbeis with less than seven minutes remaining gave Alumni a hard­fought·l-0 victory over Stanford and the interhall soccer championship last night at Cartier Field. 
Eisenbeis' goal resulted from a 
scramble  in  front  of the goal  
following  a  well-placed  corner  
kick  by  sophomore  Charlie  

Kruse. The ball squirted loose and Eisenbeis was in perfect position to put it in the open right side past the Stanford goalkeeper. 
The two teams fought hard throughout a scoreless first half, with each team coming close to breaking the ice on several occasions. Even though Alumni was playing with a _)0 MPH wind at their backs. Stanford controll­ed the momentum. A couple of fine defensive plays by Dog fullback Greg Anders kept the game at 0-0. as he was able to clear thl' ball out ofdan~evwhen 
(left to right) Don Veto, Dick Allison and Keith Sherin beade. 'ist ofmore than 70 student managers. (photo by Linda Shanahan) 
it looked like Stanford would get 
sweet for Dog player-coach 
a clear shot at the net. 
Jamie Roberts. In the bedlam 

In the second half, the Studs, 
following the victory, he reflected 

now going with the wind, 
on the long season. 

continued to apply the pressure 
aThe key to this team was its 

and kept the ball in the Alumni 
togetherness," he said. "We lost 

defensive zone for the first few 
two of of our first three games

minutes of the ~tanza. But Dog 
this season, but these guys never 

goalkeeper Jim Dooley made a 
quit. I'm really proud of them. 

couple ofkey saves to thwart the 
"We won this for ourselves and 

Stanford attack and maintain the 
our fans who kept supporting us 
scoreless tie. 
all season long." ~ 

But the game began to open 
As a footnote, Irish head 

up as Alumni was finally able to 
soccer coach Rich Hunter 

mount an offensive attack they 
refereed the contest. But this is 

lacked through the game's first 
nothing new-be usually refs 

:~5 minutes. With about eight 
the interhall championshipgame

minutes left, the Dogs began to 
in his search for new talent for 

force the action in the Stanford 
the varsity squad. 

half of the field and gained a 

corner kick. Kruse's first kick was promptly knocked beyond the goal line, wide ofthe net, by a Stanford d·~fender. Kruse's second attempt, this one a little 
Bowl matchups :Whatsup? 
~!lltlo. .J ( .
Frank LaGrotta 

Florida State to play Nebraska but he could be 
thinkin' about the loser of the Notre Dame­Alabama game, seein' as how we get the winner. 
"I am not gloatin'! Hold on a minute. 

"Jack, it's me, Wenda!!. Yeah, Charlie's steamin' down in Dallas. Figures the best he can do is Baylor from the conference and nobody to play 'em. 
"Yeah. I agree. A Nebraska-Florida State game might look pretty good. You'll sell plenty oftickets to Seminole fans and with that great halftime show, you know you'll get a good TV share. 
"Yeah, I know. ButwhataHoutCharlie. OK, OK; he gets the loser ofNotre Dame-Alabama. Hold on, I'll tell him. 
"Charlie, Wenda!!. Look, Jack says they'll probably take Florida State so y'all can have the loser up in Birmingham. Yeah, I know the loser will probltbly drop outta the top ten but what are y'all gonna dol Take the Big Ten runner-up? I knew you'd see it our way. Now I'll see you in Birmingham-if you can get a ticket. 
"Jack, sorry to keep you waiting. Yeah, old Charlie is really upset. Says no one will want to watch Baylor play a team that isn't even in the Top Ten. I shoulda told him nobody wants to watch Baylor play anybody. 
"Yeah. Well, give the Mrs. my best. By the way, I tried to call Stanley nut in Pasadena yesterday, but he couldn't come to the phone. His ,rife told me he's no better. She said he just sits in a chair and mumbles something about hanging a bunch ofguys who didn't go to class." 
f:trther from the net than the first one, was directed into the goal by Eisenbeis, giving Alumni a 1-0 lead and, eve:1tually, the title. 
The victory, the seventh win in It's hard for the average football fan to 
a row for Alumni following a 1-2 comprehend what goes into producing the gridiron 
start this season, was especially glut that takes place every January 1. From noon 
:******************************·*~ 
*************""*****************l*J 
i HAPPY ii
* * * 
* * * 
* * * 
* * * 
E 1t»h E~ 
* ~· * * 
* * * 
* * *
* * *
* * * 
i BIRTHDAY i i 
* * * 
* * * 
* * * 
* * * 
* * * 
i CLAUDIA!! i i 
* * * 
* * * 
* * * 
* * *
* * *
! -~ * 
*
~*~~***************************.** 
Student m.anagers 
play key role at ND 
By Kelly Sullivan Women's Sports Editor 

Only a handful of talented blue chip athletes get the chance to be a part of something as big as Notre Dame football, right? 
Wrong. Almost 70 students who don't don shoulder pads, cleats, helmets, etc. are as much a part of the Irish athletic scene as Bob Crable, John Scully, and Tom Gibbons. 
They are the managers, a group whose efforts are unnoticed and perhaps unappreciated by those outside the sports sphere. But Dan Devine's staff and football contingent know these are people they couldn't do without. Handing out jerseys, cleaning up locker rooms, preparing equipment, spotting the ball at practice-all business as usual for this dedicated group. But what made them choose this business? 
"It's important to be involved in something besides academics," says Head Manager Dick Allison, "and the sports program here is rewarding because of its magnitude. When I'm older I'm going to look back and be proud to have been a part ofNotre Dame footbalL" 
Allison is assisted by Personnel Manager DonVeto and Equipment manager Keith Sherin. They delegate assignments to the 13 juniors, 30 sophomores, and 25 freshmen who work for them. 
"It's lots of work," offers Veto, who takes care of team expenses when the Irish are on road. "We spend every bit as muchtime.with football as the players." But their work does not go unrewarded. Freshman managers receive jackets and sophomores get free books and basketball tickets. After junior year, managers are awarded a monogram and are guaranteed at least one road trip. Seniors makeall the away games, and the three head managers receive a scholarship for their last year at Notre Dame. Still, there must be some other reason why they do it. 
"It's pretty interestin_g being involved with an important college football team," Sherin explains. "It's also good work experience, and it gives kids something to do with their free time." 
Material benefits and employment experience are a part of the answer but they don't tell the entire story. For all the hard work and long hours and time taken away from the books and the bars, you get the feeling these pt·(1ple really do enjoy their position. And they have good reason to. 
"The benefits are added insentive, but there's no way I would have stayed a manager just because of them," says Allison. "We develop good relationships with a great bunch ofpeople. No one realizes how close the managers, the team, and the coaches really are." 
"When you're a freshman, you're really in awe ofthe players," adds Veto. "But when you start to get to know them, they become good friends. We get along really well-I think it's a friendship, but also a mutual respect." 
Respect is what they deserve, and respect is what they receive from all the people who realize that the athletic department couldn't manage without tl-.cm. 
until midnight there is non-stop football on the tube as the four major bowl committees flaunt their wares to viewers who usually don't care who's playing but watch only because they realize it's their last chance to see major college football until September. 
I thought it might be interesting to listen in on the leaders of the four major bowl committees as they wheeled and dealed (and prayed) for "the" match­up of 1981. 
******** 
"Good afternoon, Sugar Bowl committ-Oh, hi Charlie. How are things in Dallas? 
"Yeah, I know. Things are pretty hectic around here, too. Just gettin' ready to high-tail it up to Birmingham for the big game. 
"Yeah, we're thinking about invitin' the winner down for New Year's. Course, nothin's definite yet. We justwanna make sure we get a team thatcan stay in the ballgame with Georgia. 
"Yeah, you know. Georgia... the number one team in the nation. Undefeated too. They'll be down here for New Year's, probably playin' for the national championship-least that's what ABC's gonna sav in their commercials. Wait a minute, the ~nher phone's ring in'. 
"Good afternoon, Sugar Bowl Committee. 
·'HeyJack: Haven't heard your voice for a while. Bet vou've been out soakin' up some of that Miami sunshine, huh? Yeah, I got Charlie on the other phone as a matter of fact. You goin' up to Birmingham? Yeah, I know you ain't got much ofa chance (snicker) but at least you'll see a good game. Wait a minute, I got Charlie on hold. "Charlie, I'm back. Yeah, it's Jack down at 
I Orange. I think he might be interested in gettin' 


~ -------------------~-----~-~--­
The Observer Friday, November 14, 1980-page 17 

I 
.WSNDtune winner 

,, ... Gratnke 
pom-poms and chant endless really pull together and as
ramtirmed from p"ge 20) 
renditions of the ''Little Blue close as we are to each other Nun.'' helps. We can't burn our­wheo I came here, I realized Of course, another powerful selves out with enthusiasm
that they're just ordinary 
Crimson Tide team doesn't though before the gamehuman beings and that I could help matters either. begins. We've got to be wellplay college ball.'' 
''The wishbone attack is prepared."
The freshman campaign con­difficult to defend. My assign­Joe Gramke has known allcluded with a five tackle part ment is to stop the fullback up about preparation this year astir.le performance in the 35-34 the middle," says Gramke. have all the Irish reserves, andCotton Bowl thriller, including "It'll be a hostile crowd down if the rest of the Irish have thatthe fourth and one hit made on there and we'll have nobody same readiness, it may beDanny Davis at the Houston 29 but ourselves there. But another great Notre Damewith 28 seconds left enabling adversity can make a team victory.
the "Seventh Miracle of the 
Montana Era" to come about. 
The freshman campaign and an impressive springmade him into a full time starter in his sophomore season at tackle, 
... Tide

and at end when Mark Czaja was injured. 
"He's very flexible," says Yonto, "which is always a great asset for a ballplayer." fcontinuedfrom page 12} 
Gramke went on to make 52 tackles, five for 22 yards in The Tide likely will start an all-senior backfield consisting of losses that year. quarterback Don Jacobs (30-of-70 for 523 yards), halfbacks Major 
''I guess the Cotton Bowl Ogilvie (64 carries for 397 yards) and Joe Jones (50 for 273) and tackle is the only highlight in fullback Bill Jackson (90 for 489). Sophomore q\.larterback Ken my career that sucks out m my ':oley started the LSU game, but he sat down with a wrist injury on the 
mmd,' · says Gramke, "but just 
:>ccond Tide possession. Jacobs finished up despite a sprained ankel of being here at Notre Dame has his own, though freshman Walter Lewis started the sewnd halfand 
given me the best of both junior Alan Gray also played. Junior tight end Bart Krout has caughtworlds. I can receive a good 11 passes for 175 yards to lead in that category.
education and play football. 
Standout defensive end E.J. Junior leads an Alabama defensive unit 
And playing football here has that has bet·n nearly as stingy as Notre Dame's. The Tide has given upgiven me a lot of opportunities an average, of only 228.1 yards per game, with three shutouts alreadyI haven't dreamed of, like to its credit playing against the best in If the gan:e comes down to a field goal, both teams will be well Alabama and Southern Cal to prepared. t .Nre Dame's Harry Oliver already has set a single-season · making that trip to Tokyo last record by hitting 16 of his 20-field goal attempts. Alabama year. Coming to Notre Dame sophomore Pete Kim has converted 12 t•f his 16 attempts. :
1s something I've never 
"It looks like a great match up," Devine says. "The fans will see two 
regretted.'' 
super defen.>ive teams and two very good offenses. And we're kidding .
But before Gramke puts on ourselves if we don't think we'll be playing in an extremely emotional : his graduatin uniform, he still setting.
has another goal left. 
"There's no secret to Alabama at all. They'll run the ball right at''Besides an undefeated and you, they'll do it often and they'll use lots ofpeople. They goout therechampionship season, I would and challenge you to stop them before they'll throw the ball to any.
really like to reach my poten­great extent.
tial.'' The chance to see it will "But I told our team after the Georgia Tech game that we had a come tomorrow in that place huge challenge in front ofus. We can fold or we can bounce back this down South, where tens of week. We've played hard all year, we playe'1 hard Saturday down in thousands of fans will be Atlanta and I don't think things will be any d 1t'ferent in Birmingham." 
endlessly wavin~ red and white 
' 
The Little Blue Nun has replied again. "The Ballad of Bear Bryant," by Joe.Trean9r, Dan Sills and Martin Lutz was the song cposen as number one by members ofthe WSND AM64 sports staff. The composers-performers were awarded $25. Their song was aired on "Speaking of Sports" last night. along with the first and second runners-up, submitted by Matt Crooks ;.u1d Mike Gurdak, respectively. ' 
"The Little Blue Nun" and "The Little Blue Nun Replies" have been available from the Big Brothe(s/Big Sisters Organization on campus, and the lyrics were printed this week in The Observer. WSND invited all musical Irish fans to try their hands at coming up with a song for tomorrow's ga~ne. Here are the lyrics to the winning song. (Sung to "The Beverly Hillbillies"): 
THE BALLAD OF BEAR BRYANT 
Come listen to a story of a man named "Bear" Mention Notre Dame and all he'll do i~> swear The reason is, you see, old Bear has got a ~treak Against the Fighting Irish his boys are mighty weak. 
...., 0 and three, that is... Two bowls and a season loss. 
Well first thing you know Bear's got another shot To the Irish streak he'll try to put a stop. He'll call on the crowd, he'll spur on his Tide Not til the final gun will the Reb attack subside. 
Slaughter, that is... . Irish none, and 'Barna headed for Number One. 
Bear says this time he'll even out the score The polls won't cheat Alabama's Tide no more. "So long," he will say to that.Little Blue Nun; "The Crimson Tide \\-ill bask in the sun!'' 
Ah, yes ... Sweet revenge ... Now he can retire. 
But the problem with you folks is that we don't agree: Against the'Bama jokes N.D. always plays care-free. Your referees may give to us a Southern-style ream But so:tWhat! You're like a high school learn! 
0 and foutr, that is... c Two bowls, a season loss, and another loss. 
For in this game Our Lady's team will demonstrate its stuff 
Our offense will roll and our D will be tough  
Our Green Machine will grind you up and finally spit you  
out.  
No longer Notre Dame will anybody doubt!  
Shades of '77 ...  
Devine inspiration, National Championship.  
So now it's tiq1e to say goodbye to Bear and all his kin.  
, I know you'd like to thank us all for kindly droppin' in.  
You'd like to have us back again-in fact this New Year's  '  
\..Day  
But in the Sugar Bowl it's the Bulldogs we'll play!  
Bye, Bye Bear:.. ya'll tune-in no~.  yru hear!  1  'ff;•  
C  1  a  r  I  •  
•  OII·OAMPUS S!UDIR!S  
Campus telephone Books Will Be Available  
!o You •ovember 11, 11, ct 14  9:00 am 'o  
4:00 pm  Stude•' Government Offices  
lad floor· Lafortune  
•  OBI BOOK PIB BOUSI  •!I  

and Slam Alabama With Us! 

fcontinued from page 20) 
room/T. V room for updates on the score. A 12­
yard TD run by N.D.'s Eric Pennick with 2:30 left 
in the third quarter brought us a collective sigh of 
relief, and we were able to gleefully announce to 
everyone, "21-1 7, Notre Dame, at the end of the 
third quarter." 
The time was about 1 1:30 as the fourth quarter 
began. But the predominant mood in our church 
basement was not "only 1/2 hour until the New 
Year," rather, "only 15 minutes away from a 
national championship." 
We began giving updates minute-by-minute. "14 minutes left, sti1121-17." "13 minute' left ... " As the seconds ticked on, my brotherand I ;loticed a trend beginning-fewer people were pHTtying, less music was being played, but more and more people were crowding around the doorway of the cloak room. peering at a little 9" black-and-white T.V. 
"1 0 minu lt:S to go, still21-17." ButAiabar twas driving, and when halfback Mike Stock tl !W a flea-flicker 25-yard pass to reserve quarterback Richard Todd for a touchdown, putting the Crimson Tide ahead 23-21 with 9:33 to play, the party carne. to. a screeching halt. 
Suddenly, we discovered that everybody was in the cloak room, watching this incredible battle, and nobody was partying. Evt·n the band surrendered to the T.V., and they put down their instruments and joined everyone in this tiny 1 5 x 18 converted classroom. 
"Nine minutes left, 23-21, Alabama." 
"Eight minutes left ... " 
But Notre Dame, with QB Clements mixing his passing (7-12 for and 169 yards for the game) and running games well, was on the move. In five minutes, they drove the length of the field, all the way to the 'Barna two yard line. A gutsy Alabama goal-line stand kept the Irish out of the end zone. 
So on fourth down, placekicker Bob Thomas 
trotted onto the Tulane Stadium turf. 
A few Hail Mary's later, Thomas, who had missed earlier from 54 yards, lined up for a 19-yard attempt, hoping to put the Irish ahead. The snap. and hold were perfect, his kick split the uprights, and Notre Dame led 24-23. 
By now, everyone's food was getting cold, their beer was getting warm, but nobody cared. There was still4:26 to play, and the Bear's Boys had the ball. · 
"Four minutes to go, still 24-23." 
Three minutes to go... " 
Someone in the room happened to glance at his 
watch and, noticing it was a few minutes past midnight, ,·elled out, "Happy New Year!" 
"Shut u: "was everyone's immediate response. 
The Tide got a couple offirst downs, but finally punted the ball, pinning the Irish on their own one-yard line. On a crucial third-and-eight, game MVP Clements, daringly throwing from his own end zone in the game's waning minutes, fired a.. spectacular 3 5-yard completion to tight end Robin Weber for a first down. 
From there, Notre Dame ran out the clock and captured the National Championship, 24-23. The cloak room went crazy, and I can still remember the sight of Ara Parseghian accepting the MacArthur Trophy from the National Football Foundation, and being carried off the field on his players' shoulders. "Our New Year's-Notre Dame victory party lasted well into the wee hours of the morning. 
And when the last coat check had been taken, the last coat handed back to its owner, and the last tip placed in the money basket, my brother and I sat back, exhausted, and reflected on the wild evening that had just taken place. 
The Irish were National Champions, and we were $117 richer. It was, indeed, a memorable evening. 

--------------~~------~----­
The Observer Friday, November 14, 1980-page 18 
Luck o' the Irish.... . . . vs. spite o' the Tide 
The Luck o' the Irish vs. the Spite o' the Tide. 
That's what Saturday's Notre Dame contest· with Alabama has become. i 
Beth

Why should the Irish, 7-0-1, need luck? 1 Facing the Crimson Tide in Birmingham will be 
Huffman
much tougher for Devine's crew than it was for Sherman and his troops when they marched on Atlanta. 
Sherman and his "Yankees" ravished that Peach State city with little resistance from a the hotel and received an injunction order weakened and defeated South. Devine should allowing his club the promised rooms. be so lucky. So intensified is the Tide desire to win that 
With the series record 3-0 in favor of the Irish, evern ] ohn Mauro, a graduate of nearby Alabama would probably rather leave the Union Marion High School in Mishawaka, Ind. was again than lose another football game to Notre quoted by the AP wire to say such curt remarks Dame. as "There's more of a closeness between the 
The three previous battles--with results almost community and the team here because the as famous as those at Gettysburg, Vicksburg campus is right in the middle of the city and and Chattanooga--1973, when the Irish nipped people associate with the players. Notre Dame 'Barna 24-23 in the Sugar Bowl for the nauonal is on the outskirts of South Bend and you never crown; 1974, another Notre Dame win (13-11 in see the players. fhey think they're gods, or the Orang Bowl) and another lost national title something...They beat us out of two national for 'Barna; and 1976, when the Tide rolled into championships and took one away from us, I South Bend and drowned 21-18. just want to kill them.'' 
The 'Barna fans have talked of almost nothing Excuse the expression, but the Alabama else since the season began save the November players, .coaches and fans have one thing and 15 clash with the Irish. Those good ol' one thing only on their minds: Kill, beat, Southern folks are out for revenge--full scale destroy, obliterate, ... WIN--regardless. revenge. Should the Tide be washed away by Notre 
So intense is the Tide and its groupies' hatred Dame for a fourth straight time, Bear Bryant for anything green that they have stooped to has declared "If they beat us this Saturday I'd some all time lows. go anywhere to play them, enen Elkhart, 
WSND, Notre Dame's student radio station, Indiana, but ifwe win, no, I wouldn't play them was denied press credentials for the game. again." WSND had enough troubles at Arizona, when As those southern boys (just seven of 105 are Skip Desjardin had to broadcast the game via from north of the Devine-Bryant, er Kentucky­telephone from the 75th row of Arizona. Tennesse line) prepare to meet the northern Stadium--after paying $20 for his tickets. boys (just five south of that mythical recruiting 
The Sheraton Mountainbrook Inn of Birming­line) on the gridiron tomorrow, bookies will ham reserved 21 rooms for visiting Notre Dame throw different odds at their bettors (current alumni, retracted the reservation months later, odds have 'Barna favored by 10)--but my reinstated the reservations and then cancelled thoughts are different and I'II go with that again. John O'Brien, the member of the: magical number four--The Irish by four in their alumni association who was in cahq~e of thc:­fourth win over Alambam after a four-year reservations, has filed a damage sutt againsc lay-off. 
Women 's prograrrt changes drastically 
Pat Kramer (98) watches as a teammate hauls down a Miami Hurricane man. (photo by fame Ahern) 
By David Irwin Sports Wrrter 
The women's basketball program has under­gone some major changes since last season. Not that the girls were any slouches last winter. On the contrary they posted a 20-10 record and reached the final 16 of the AlA W Division III national tournament. Off the court though things were happening. 
The administration was making decisions on how to comply with Title IX and make ends meet financially. When the dust settled, the women's and men's basketball programs were combined into one-the Department of Basketball under the guidance of Richard "Digger" Phelps. 
One of the first things Digger did was hire Ma1y DiStanislao as head coach. The Lady Irish were also moved up fro.m Division III to Division I, scholarships were given out Jenny Klauke and Mary Joan Forbes (the first two women's scholarships in Notre DAme's history) and five doubleheaders were arranged with Digger's squad. 
Junior forward Missy Conboy sees the hiring of DiStanislao as a postive move. 
··rn the past we've done well and the coachts ha\'e been dedicated," Conboy said. "But before when they looked for coaches they didn't look any farther than the Athletic Department. This time they went out and got one." 
She also approves of combining the two pro­grams. "I think it was a smart move," Conboy said. "They complement one another." 
Her coach agrees. 

"Our program is not unlike a junior varsity or a B-tearn," DiStanislao said. "It is corning under one roof and thats the way it should be." 
The move also draws approval from Phelps. 
"Because we're going to integrate our pro­grams-put all the revenue and all the organiza­tion under one department-with what we can offer both academically and athletically in three years we'll be up there with the Old Dominions, the Tennessees, and the Louisiana Techs." 
DiStanislao agrees that the changes that have been implemented will allow Notre Dame to catch 
up and compete with the elite of women's 
basketball. 
"We're a little bit behind, but that's because 
they haven't had the exposure and experience," 
DiStanislao said. "But in three years we won't beas 
far behind. We do have the advantage of an 
incredible atheletic tradition. We will attract 
players, a lot of them who are good students." .J · 
Basically, DiStanislao is pleased with the 
changes made in the on going process of up­
grading the women's athletic program. 
"They did what they had to do. It is to their 
advantage to act when they did and the way they 
did. Women's basketball is here," DiStanislao 
said. "It is the most visible on the women's sports. 
What better sport to show case" 
From the players side, Conbo>y t.tke~. note of 
some of the subtle changes that make playing 
basketball more attractive. She cites the use of the 
main floor ofthe ACC instead ofthe Pit, use ofthe 
weight room and training room and improved 
travel conditions as examples. 
• "Three years ago, after seeing the kind of facilities there were, there was no way you were coming here to play basketball," Conboy said. "But they've started looking after our needs. The guys have been real nice. It's a good attitude. The guys are more supportive than last year." 
Conboy has also noticed changes in the abilities ofthe players. Besides the two scholarship players, there are five other freshman on the team. 
"The girls have gotten a lot better. They're real smooth," Conboy said. "They've gotten good coaching in high school and have attended summer camps. Our game will definitely improve." Perhaps the articulate and likable Conboy has the approach that all should take when viewing women's athletics, as schools throughout the country try to improve the quality of their women's sports programs and stay ahead of the bills. "Everything is on a smaller scale. When you look at us only compare us to other girls," Conboy said. "Our program won't survive unless people realize their is a women's team and a • men's team. Its a whole new ballgame." 

THE MUSIC BOX 
120 W. Mishawaka Ave. ~If Mish., IN (256-5440) 

Lots to see at the best new club in town, with the best entertainment around: 

Nov. 12  Free Spirit  
Nov. 13  Jeff Lorber  Fusion  
with Free Spirit  
Nov. 14 ­ New Grass Revival  
with  
Pink &the Naturals  

l 
I 


Sports 
Joe Gramke: wait pays off 
by Loui'e Somogyi' Sports Wnier 
The 1980 Notre Dame foot­ball season can rightfully be billec as the year of the reserve and part time players. Stone, 
Kiell, Oliver, Marshall, Thayer are just few of the names that pop to mind as players shining through when called upon. 
Last week in Atlanta , yet anotner Irishman proved that the old army motto of being prepared is more than just a slogan. For junior defensive tackle }oe Gramke, 1980 has been a year of circumstantial luck--namely through an injury and a competitive defensive line. 
After impressive freshman and sophomore campaigns in which he saw starting action at both end and tackle, a starting berth have seemed in the bag for Gramke's remaining two years. But two healthy Scot Zettek knee's, a sterling fall campaign by Don Kidd, and the enrollment of a freshman named Tim Marshall thrust Gramke back from the starting spotlight and into the role as a reserve. 
A shoulder injury in prepara­tion for Michigan State further cast him into anonymity as it left him out of action for a little over two weeks. And with the defensive line improving week after week, wee, It looked like Joe Gramke might not be really needed anymore for the year. 
But the motto ''Be pre­pared" wouldn't let Gramke quit just for the moment. "]oe' s attitude during his in­jury was just excellent,'' says defensived line coach Joe Yonto, "he didn't get down on himself and just kept working all the more harder in prac­tices.'' 
================== 
Happy New Year :Irish style 
I had just turned 12 years old two days earlier, so as New Year's Eve 1973 arrived, I wasn't quitt' at the age where I could go pa:tying and guzzle champagne. 
So that night, my brother and I volunteered to work the cloak room at the church's New Year's Eve party. It was basically easy work, we thought-just take the guests' coats at the beginning ofthe night, watch over them, and then hand them back when they leave. And, besides, th1· job usually paid about $25 in tips. 
We had a lot of time to kill during the party, sc we brought the T.V. along. On this night, though. Guy Lombardo had to take a backseat, because the Sugar Bowl, Notre Dame vs. Alabama, the proclaimed "Battle for the National Champion­ship," was on ABC. 
My brother and I weren't diehard Nntre Dame fans seven years ago, but being raised in an Irish Catholic family, we really had no alternative but to root for the Irish that night. As we discovered later on, we weren't the only ones. 
From what I can recall, both the game and the party started slowly. Finally, with about three minutes left in the first quarter, Irish fullback Wayne Bullock, who as his name suggests ran like a bull, scored on a six-yard run up the middle. The conversion attempt failed, as the low center snap eluded holder Brian Doherty, but Notre Dame had drawn first blood anyway, 6-0. 
It was about 10 P.M. now, and the dance floor What's more, Gramke took 
his new role a:s a reserve not as 
an insult, but as a sincere sight 
for it being in the best interests 
of the team. 

"Ofcourse, I would like a lot 
of playing time," states the 
6-4, 235-pound Cincinnati 
product, "but l-as do the other 
players-trust the coaches very 
much in their ability to judge 
who is the player that is 
capable in doing the best job in 
their positions, and who can 
help us to win. But starting or 
not, I've always got to be ready 
to help out." " 

That time to help out came last Saturday against the fired up Georgia Tech squad, as Gramke became fully healed and finally was called upon to show his stuff. The response was a resounding nine tackles (two for losses) performance with a crucial fumble recovery in Notre Dame territory. 
The hard preparation paid offfor the hard-working tackle, and tomorrow afternoon, · he will continue to try to reap dividends as he starts in place of the slightly injured Marshall against that team down south. 
Climbing up the ladder of success was perhaps made even more difGcult for Gramke 
because of the depth-laden talent on the defensive line. Kidd and Kevin Griffith· were the inked in starters at the beginning of the year. The two are out for the year but even now a more than respectable tackle trio i Gtamke, Marshall, and Pat Kramer has stepped in while 6-8 freshman Mansel C~rter and sophomore Jeff Leuken have pressed Gramke at the backup end position.. 
But for the busmess maJor Gramke, it's been seen only as an advantage. . 
"I think the strong compen­
=====================team-continues its tour of the
= 

Chris Needles 


way to the coat room to see how Notre Dame was doing. 
"6-0, end of first quarter," we told them. 
"Go Irish!", they would say. 
Alabama went ahead, though, midway through the second quarter, 7-6, on a six yard run by Randy Billingsley. Irish reserve freshman tailback AI Hunter then returned the ensuing kickoff93 yards for a go-ahead touchdown. Quarterback Tom Clements passed to flanker Pete Demmerle for the two-point conversion, and the Irish went back in front, 14-7. 
The Tide· came right back with a long, time­consuming drive, but had to settle for a 39-yard field goal by Bill Davis just before the half. 
Meanwhile, back at the party, they took it upon themselves to announce the score to those who were unaware of it. "At halftime," they said, "Notre Dame 14, Alabama 10." The partiers whooped it up, and the party continued on an upbeat note. 
"Just one more half to go for the National Championship," everyone thought. 
tion in the line has made l 
everyone improve alot this year 
because it makes you work 
harder when you realize that 
someone is pressing you for 
that position. But even though 
there's competition, all of us 
on the line are still very close 
friends off the football field.'' 
The improvement in the 
defensive line is glaringly I 
reflected in the Notre Dame 
rushing defense which has 
been amond the tops in 
nation this year yielding only 1 
674 yards in 293 rushing plays 
by opponents for an average 
gain of 2. 3 yards per carry. . 
"Yeah," grins Gramke, "the . guys have been playing pretty well on the line.'' 
Pretty well can also describe 
the peformance of Gramke's 
two and a half year career 
under the Golden Dome. 
·'] oe has not really come 
close to reaching his potential,' l+iq~~ 
emphasizes Yonto, "his poten­tial right now is unlimited.'' 
It seems that way when one 

looks  back  on  his  first  two  
years  on  the gridiron for  the  
Irish.  In his freshman year,  

despite fears of monster-like creatures on the Irish lines, Gramke managed to work him­self into a backup slot behind John Hankerd at defensive end, and performed quite impressively registering 14 tackles, and logging more playing time than fellow defen­sive classmates Bob Crable, 

leers invade Badgers 
Pat Kramer, John Krimm, and Steve Cichy. ''I guess I surprised a lot of 

in tveekendtnatch-up
people that yer, includin~ my­
self. When I was a semor in High school I thought college 
by Brian Beglane
football players, especially Sports Wrtter ones at Notre Dame, had three heads and stuff like that. But 
MADISON, Wis.-The Lefty (contmued ,,,, page 17) Smith travel agency-otherwise known as the Notre Dame hockey 
Midwest this weekend with its 
fourth consecutive road series. 
The Irish face off against the 
Badgers of Wisconsin, the second 
place team in the Western 
Collegiate Hockey Association, 
here tonight and tomorrow at 
the Dane County Coliseum. 
Faceoff each night is scheduled for 8:30 South Bend time and WNDU-AM radio (1500) will carry both games live. 
The Irish take a 4-4 overall 
record into the series and are tied 
for fourth place in the· WCHA 
with a 2-2 mark after splitting 
with Minnesota, the nation's No-. 
1 team, last week in Minneapolis. 
Wisconsin is 7-1 overall after sweeping Central Collegiate opponent Ferris State last week. CoachBobJohnson'sclub, 3-1 in the league, is tied for second in the WCHA with Denver. 
"For the second week in a row we face a very stiff challenge," said Smith. "The Badgers, as always, are an excellent team. They have a very potent offense and playing in the Dane Col­iseum is always a challenge in itself. 
"But we are coming off by far our best performance ofthe year against Minnesota. We proved we can get up and go when we 
have to and we also showed a lot 

foe Gramke (92) isjust one reserve man that has steppedin anddone agood job for the Irrsh thrs year. (photo by john Macor) 
ing in WCHA play with eighL points. Freshman John Newberry follows with seven. 
In goal-a big question mark in preseason following the defec­tion of Rov Schultz-senior Jamey Gre~ore and freshman Terry Kleisinger rank fifth and sixth with 3.59 and 3.88 goals against averages, respectively. 
Notre Dame sophomore center Rex Bellomy leads the Irish in scoring with 11 points overall. 
In goal, Lefty Smith expects to start sophomore Bob MeN a mara tonight and will stay with him if he plays well. McNamara is un­defeated in WCHA play this year and was outstanding last Saturday against Minnesota with 46 saves in the 6-5 win. 
In front of McNamara on defense, Smith has rearranged all three defensive pairings following a dismal performance last week­end. Seniors Jeff Brownschidle and Don Lucia are the first tandem; Scott Cameron and junior Jim Brown are the next; 
and  freshman Joe  Bowie  and  
junior John Schmidt  also  will  
skate together.  

After this weekend's series, the Irish return to the ACC to face Michigan Tech Nov. 21 and 22. 
IRISH ICINGS: Irish soph­omore right wing Dave Lucia will be playing before his hometown this weekend ... he is a graduate of Madison Memorial High SchooL. Neal Broten of Minnesota leads the WCHA in scoring with 3 goals and 18 assists for 21 points... teammates Steve Ulseth and 
was becoming active,  as  the 125  or so couples  But it wasn't going to be easy. It took 'Barna just  of character with our come-from­ Aaron Broten follow 2-3...  Bob  
began to take advantage of the invitation to "B.Y.O.B." The band struck up some old favorites like "The Alley Cat" and "The Mexican Hat  3:58 to regain the lead the 17-14, as they scored on a five-yard run by Wilbur Jackson. Gradually, .more and more revels began visiting the cloak  behind win Saturday. Now it is a matter of continued improve­ment."  McNamara has dropped to a tie fur third in WCHA goaltending with a 3.50 goals against average ...  
Dance," and the party was in full swing. From time  Forwards Lexi Doner and Ron  Scott Robinson leads the league  
to time, a few worn-out dancers would make their  Vincent top the Badgers in scor­ with a 3.02 average.  

... 





