, , , Senzor Formal _.Page 4 

VOL. XIV, NO. 95 an independent student newsp•r serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1980 
Draft legislation fails· in com.m.ittee 
WASHINGTON (AP) -President Carter's whether to recommend approval of the $13.3 draft registration plan failed its test in Con_gress million. A tie vote traditionally kills a measure, when a House committee refused yesterday to but Carter's supporters tried to argue that the approve funds the administration had sought for bill should be sent to the full committee for the program. act1on, anyway. 
Opponents of registration hailed the House In the end, the committee decided to approve Appropriations subcommittee action as a serious legi~lation appropriating $4.7 million -an setback for the Caner administration. amo!lnt th~t would not allow for registration this 
However, administration officials and backers year. But It would finance a program proposed of Carter's program predicted the president's · by Selective Service -and later dicardert -for a plan will be approved in the full Appropriations rqistration program only after the president Committee at a later date. si!;ne? an emergency_ proClamation to morilize 
Carter had asked Congress for $21.9 million in recruitS. the current fiscal year to begin registering men Earlier, the committee had voted 6-5 against and women, aged 19 and 20, beginning this an almost identical proposal. summer. The committee did not even consider However-, even supporters of registration the issue of registering women, and first struck joined in later and voted for the lower amount, $8.5 million from the bill. merely as a means fo sending something to the 
That left about $13.3 million in the bill. full committee and in hopes that the fuH In the key vote, the panel deadlocked 6-6 on committee would approve $13.3 million. 

Regime quashes Afghan revolt 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan (AP) -as saying an Islamic scholar keepers that prompted the up­Afghan authorities resorted to was among those killed by rising shows only small signs of large-scale repression and exe­authorities in the aftermath of letting up. cutions following last week's the bloody street fighting. One diplomat in New Delhi, anti-Soviet uprising in the capi­Mass arrests also were made, quoting Afghan sources, said tal of Kabul, according to a the report said. 70-75 percent of the shopkeep­
report published here yester­Medical sot1rces said at least ers in Kabul opened for busi­day. 300 civilians and an undeter­ness yesterday but that the The report by the Associated mined number of Soviet and strike was still crippling the 

Press of Pakistan, which could Afghan troops were killed in the economic life of the city.Victory! not be independently confirm­fighting that led to the imposi­There were indications, mean­
ed, quoted diplomatic sources tion of martial law in Kabul. while, that Soviet leaders were
That, in effect, made the Soviet softening conditions undercommander there the head of which they might withdrawthe Afghan government. 
their troops. 
The Pakistani news agency, In London, a Foreign Officerquoting reports from Afghanis­


Candidates prepare for long haul 

spokesman said British officials tan, said Moslem Afghan re­read "with interest" a reportbels and government troops attributed to ''high-level sour­"sustained heavy casualties ces close to President Brezh­CONCORD, N.H. (AP) -Presi­the challenge to the renomirta­cessions or compliments after and losses" in "bitter fighting" nev'' sayin~ the Soviets mightdent Carter's campaigners are tion of the president should be Carter beat him in New Ham­the past few days. 
consider ' the l>ossibility ofmappin~ a cross-country effort pursued after three defeats pshire, 49 percent to 38 certent. In one incident, the report U.N. troops betng used into elimmate Edward M. Ken­plus a virtually uncontested ' Instead, he delivered what said, rebels ambushed a cara­Mghanistan.''
nedy as a presidential conten­Carter victory in Minnesota amounted to a campaign speech van of government troops on a der, but the senator said yes­Democratic caucuses Tuesday; Tuesd~y night, and said "roar­road between Jalalaran, in eas­In Calcutta, India, Soviet De­terday he'll fashion a comeback But around the Carter camp, ing inflation" will be a domi­tern Afghanistan, and Kabul puty Prime Minister I.V. Arkhi­around voter wrath over the there are suggestions that it nant issue to his advantage in and "killed 400 troops and pov told reporters that the soarin~ cost of living. would be better for the party if later primaries in Illinois, N:ew destroyed a number of armored Kremlin was determined not to 
That tssue didn't do much for Kennedy did quit. Kennedy York, and Pennsylvania. vehicles." let Afghanistan become "a Kennedy in New Hampshire, said he has no intention of Western diplomats in New hotbed of trouble in the re­
[contmued on page 4]

and he needs a comeback, doing so, and offered no con-Delhi said the strike by shop-gion." badly, after Carter's comforta­ble victory in the keynote Democratic presidential pri­SBP!SBVP mary election. 
Ronald Reagan, the runaway Republican victor in New Hampshire,' said that showing 

Riehle, Ciancio ticket wins run-offeasily
financed his prospects against rival George Bush in two more 
gest showing on the north quad 

New England primaries Tues­by Michael Mader was in Flanner, Ciancio's resi­Campus Campaign '80 ever, is that Riehle-Ciancio won 
day. StaffReporter all the women's dorms, gaining 
dence, where he won 128 to 

over 70 percent in three ofBush, the former United Na­Riehle's 153.
Paul Riehle and Don Ciancio them. The ticket won 80 percenttions ambassador who came to 
Behney-Guilfoyle had their

New Hampshire as the Repu­collected 60.8 percent of the in }3adin. 
best showing in Alumni, where "We ran a pretty grass-rootsblican campaign leader and left vote to win the SBP-SBVP 
they won by a vote of 194 to 37. campaign," Riehle said in ex­trailing Reagan, said he's still run-off election yesterday and 
to end a quiet campaign. Tom They also won slight victories in planation of the victory. "Weconvinced he can win the 
Cavanaugh and St. Ed's. went to all the dorms at least
nomination. Behney and Frank Guilfoyle twice, some of them three times. 

"I'm going to wear him won 37 percent and two percent 
''I'd like to thank everyone 

I think our campaign will bedown," Bush s_aid. went to write-in candidates. 
who voted for me," Behney 

indicative of the way we will beBut Reagan said he means to 'I'm pretty psyched! " Riehle 
offered. "I certainly appreciate 

in government," he added.
keep the momentum he gained exclaimed last night after the 
all the work everyone did for us. 

Tom Call, Ombudsman Elec­in New HamPshire, his f1rst results were announced. I'd like 
They all did a load of work," 

tion Committee Chairman, saidvictory after Bush had won two to thank all those who helped 
the candidate said. ''I want to 

that the 48 percent voter turn­early season GOP contests. 11""" in this campaign." 
wish Paul the br;st of luck. I'm 

out this year was about the"You've got to keep on going. 
sure he'll do an excellent job

The Riehle-Ciancio ticket took same as last year although thisAnd I know there are areas here 
next year," Behney added. 

the entire north quad, earning figure of 3,229 students wasin fact, I'm not exactly a almost two-thirds of the voting Riehle won the voting on the down from Monday's generalfavorite-son candidate·.'' 
For the record, Carter and his there. Riehle and Ciancio won south quad, but by much less of election turnout of 3505. Call virtually all the votes cast in a margin than on the north.
spokesman said it's Kennedy's [continued on page 9j 
business to decide whether Keenan, Riehle's home terri-Perhaps most interesting, how-



News in brief 

Thursday, February 28, 1980 -page 2 
Dylan, Doobiesplace among Fordtrial continues winners at Grammy Awards Defense shows crash tests 
Besides the '73 Pinto, crash tests were performed on '73 models of the Dodge Colt, Chevrolet Vega and Impala, American Motors Gremlin and Toyota Corolla. 
In each test, three dummies were placed in the car, weigh­ing between 103 and 107 pounds, the approximate weight of the girls. Another dummy, weighing 150 pounds, was placed in the van. 
In each test a camera was placed in the van, and two cameras were on either side of the crash vehicle, Harrerstad said. The van weighed at least 4,000 pounds and the cars weighea between 2, 100 and 4,300. The Pinto weighs about 2,400 pounds, he said. 
In all tests, as in the case of the fatal crash, there was considerable leakage from the fuel tank. The test vehicles used a non-flammable solvent instead of gasoline. 
In the Toyota Corolla, the solvent was splashed up on the windshield of the van. 
[continued on page 8] 
mENDOZA'S GUITARS, REPAIRS, ACCESSORIES 
1mile north of cGmpus
272-7510 
LOS ANGELES (AP)-Veteran performers Dionne Warwick, the Doobie Brothers and Bob Dylan topped the collection of music superstars honored in the 22nd Annual Grammy Awards program last night. "Oh my dears, my dears," Warwick said, wiping away tears as she clutched the Victorola-shaped trophy for best female pop vocal perfor­mance, which she won for ''I'll Never Love This Way Again." Earlier, she captured best female rhythm and blues female vocal Grammy for "Deja Vu." Donna Summer won one Grarnmy for best female rock vocal performance for her energetic rendition of "Hot Stuff." But she lost to Gloria Gaynor in the new disco category. Miss Gaynor won for her feminist anthem, "I Will Survrve." The Doobie Brothers won a Grammy for best pop vocal performance by a group for ··Minute by Minute.'' Group member Michael McDonald also won an arranging award for ''What a Fool Believes.'' Bob Dylan, looking uncharacteristic in a tuxedo, performed his born-again Christian tune, "Gotta Serve Somebody," and went on to win Grammy for best male rock vocal performance. "I didn't expect to get,it, I'd like to thank the Lord for it," Dylan said. 
Ex-NFL starHayes leaves prison afterten month stay 
HUNTSVILLE, Texas (AP) -Former Olympian and Dallas C!Jwbor star Bob Hayes wa~ released from the Texas st~te prison yesterday after servmg 1~ month~ on a narcotics conviction. Before dawn, Hayes shpped quretly out the front of the red brick building called "The Walls" by prison ir.rnates. Officials had said Hayes would be freed between H:.30 a.m. and 10 a.m., but they said Hayes had made a special request for an earlier release time. Rick Hartley, the pnson's director of public affairs, said, ''Bob H~yes told the ~a~den he did not want to talk to the news medra and asked tf It were possible for him to leave early." 
70 7explodes while landing; overone hundredaboard 
MANILA, Philippines (AP) -A Taiwanese 707 jetliner with 124 persons aboard exploded yesterday as it landed at the Mantia International Airport on a flight from Taipei, the official Philippine News Agency reported. The airline, China Air Lines, said it had no immedrate mformation on the number of casualties. 

Weather 
Light snow is expected over the state beginning today, but the weather service said it probably will end by tomorrow in all areas but those near Lake Michigan. The extended outlook called for little or no snow tomorrow throu~h Sunday, with very cold nights and cool days. Lows were mdicated from 5 above zero in the north to the teens in the south, with highs in the 20s and 30s. 

. 
1-3 pm EXHIBITION ''works on paper'' spon. by university of dallas ISIS GALLERY 
6:30 pm MEETING leadership training class spon. by campus crusade for christ LEWIS HALL 
7 pm MOCK. CONVENTION PRESIDENTIAL FORUM, LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
7 pm BEGINNING AUTO MECHANICS spon. by free university 104 O'SHAG 
7 pm MEETING mandatory for all pa. delegates to the mock convention 113 O'SHAG 
7,9,11 pm MOVIE "take the money and run" spon. b} amnesty international ENG. AUD. $1 · 
7:30 pm LECTURE "a modest proposal (followed by a realistic one)'' prof. norman crowe spon. by tau sigma delta architectural honor society ROOM 202 .ARKIE IBLDG. 
8:30pm TALK dean roemer, spon. by flanner hall academic commission FLANNER PIT 
9-10:30 pm CONCERT john battles, melanie budd, mike schacht, bud seizer, matt van hoomisen NAZZ 
.12_: 30~ 11:30 pm CONCERT•.!lOJte gape brass sexte,t NAZZ 
...li ..... ··---:r.. . ·. .-..... ·-. ·~' .;: -~ro:. 
~ Jt r \ l t. ,t I l
"J,..... .. 
':-••~ o )~ .... :;~-~·~.;:~:";~...;,~~ ·:·:• ,f',.'-t ~.-~·~·I
;·;, j
~..:.-<P . -.. , '~._,. .~·· .:. ' 
WINAMAC, Ind. (AP) -Ford 
Moror Co., hoping to show the 
'7 3 Pinto is no more vulnerable 
to explosion on rear·end impact 
than comparable vehtcles, 
showed color film crash tests 
involving the Pinto and five 
other cars yesterday. 
The tests, presented despite· 
objections from the prosecution 
that they did not deal with the 
central issue in the trial, show­
ed all six cars suffered a severe 
crush to the rear end and leaked 
fuel. 
Ford is charged with reckless 
homicide in the August 1978 
deaths of three teen-agers 
whose Pinto exploded after it 
was hit from behind by a van. 

Engin.eers hon.or Dean. Hogan. 
Dr. Joseph C. Hogan, dean of the College of Engineering at Notre Dame, has been named ''Engineer of the Year'' by the St. Joseph Valley Chapter of the Indiana Society of Profes­sional Engineers. The award is given annually to an individual who has made extraordinary contributions to the profes· sional practice of engineering. Hogan was honored at a ban· quet in South Bend's Centur} Center culminating the obser­vance of National Engineers Week (Feb. 17-23). 
Hogan became the Univer­sity's seventh dean of engineer­ilng in 1967 after servmg as engineering dean at the UniVer­sity of Missouri. Soon after last fall's dedication of the $8.3 million Fitzpatrick Hall of Engi­neering, which the dean called "a milestone in the history of engineering at Notre Dame," he announced that he would resign in the summer of 1981. 
The Observer. 
Night Editor: Steve "I can't explain'' Swonk Asst. Night Editor: Deirdre Murphy, Eddie ''They won it for us Seniors'' Holden Copy Editor: Kathy Casey Layout Staff: Missed the bus News Editor: Mark Rust Editonal Layout: Greg Hedges Features Layout: Sal Granata Sports Layout: Mark Perry Typists: Beth Huffman, Tim Sullivan, Cindy Jones, NO KIM THOUGH EMT: Paul Selavko and Mike "Master G" Galvin Proofreader: Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor: Bob Bernoskie 
SMC Day Editor: Cece Baliles Ad Design: Molly O'Neil, Bob Rudy Photographer: Beth Prezio 
The Observer [USPS 511 9211) Is published Mllllday through Friday n­cept during eum and viCitiln perieda. The Observer is publided by tile students of Natn Dame IIIII Saint Mary's Clllege. Sublcrtptlea nay Ill purclllsld tor $211 per Jllf 1111 ..... II!Mitlrl 1111111 The Observer, 1'.0. llex 
Q, Nw. ba1111, 1111111111 411i5&. SICIIId clan postJge paid, NDirl 011111, In­diana -46556. 
.The Observer is 1 11111111111 If tile Aaallttd Prill. All ......... rlgflts 11'1 i'IIIFVId . 
. . . . . .
~
. 
• • • • "'. Ill 


The state contends Ford knew defects in the Pinto's fuel system made the car likety to explode in a rear-end collision but did not effect repairs or warn the public. 
Ford hopes to show it was the force of the impact, rather than any defect in the car, that caused the Pinto to burst into flames on a northern Indiana highway. 
Pulaski circuit Judge Harold 
R. Staffeldt's ruling admitting the tests was considered a major victory for Ford. In light of that ruling, chief prosecutor Michael A. Cosentino tried one more time yesterday to sub­poena Ford crash tests on '74, '72 and '71 Pintos. Staffeldt turned down the request. 
The six" Ford tests were presented by Dr. John D. Harrerstad, an independent mechanical ~ngmeer and spe­cialist in accident reconstruc­tion from Spokane, Wash. They were commissioned by Ford and conducted at its Dearborn, Mich., test track. 
In all tests, the van was moving at between 50 and 51 mph and the vehicle was stop­ped. 
Cosentino has insisted the fatal crash occurred at closing speeds of 30-35 mph, and five prosecution witnesses .testified the Indiana Pinto was moving at the time of the accident. 


111tnUJI8 tRI-1.&11 


MILLER DRAFTS 
81'1.00 
ftl4aJ 
rftnUJII 

IJ•·'I.P• MOLSOR 'IS• 



The Observer 

Trigiani recounts succesSes 
dent go':'ernment include a rape government organized the used
by Ma7,Kay Leydon 
preventton program and alcohol book sale, College to Career
Staff Reporter 

education council the Student Days in cooperation with the Mission Ca~e, ret;eat programs Counselling and Career Deve­
"The goal of Saint Mary's and the mtramural athletic lopment center, is now workingstudent g:)Vernment this year is 
program. on a course evaluation booklet. 
to ipcrease visibility for all ''Working with the Board ofstudents, diversity in social Governance and the Studentprogramming, and pride in ''We are revising Assembly, we restructured theSaint Mary's, "according to the whole structure judicial system as well as theStudent Body President Pia election rules,'' Vice PresidentTri~iani. Trigiani said that she 
ofstudent government'' of Student Affairs Kathleenbelieved her administration's Sweeney said. Sweeney alsogreatest success was better plans to combine the studentrepresentation ofstudents in all Another program initiated by handbook with a student activi­aspects of the college, as well the student government was ties book to give students aas its confrontation of specific the issuing of shuttle bus concrete source of information.
problems head on. p~sses. Trigiani explained that "We are revising the wholethis was not a profit makingThe methods which the mem­>tructure of student govern­endeavor. "It is a service to the bers of student government use ment'' Vice President of Aca­
to students and needn't make
assist their fellow students ~emic Affairs Chip Doinbachmoney," she said. 
are as diverse as they are commented.
On the academic level, student 

specialized. The social pro­grams and attempts to have activities appeal to more than one group of students -the Speaker and movie series, Ok­
1
Survey discloses apathy ' 
,1
toberfest, and the Christmas 
Bazaar -were all great succes­
.Whzle most students ·were in the ACC at the game last ,ses. n~ght, thts ddzgent Observer worker was making sure the
toward SMCgovern.men.t
''The movie series has turned 
nt:ws got out. [photo by Beth Prezzo]
into a money making endeavor, government. They indicated ~ 
by Cece Balzles 

and the money is then used to that since it did not affect them ""'----~·-·....,_.,_,_...,.__.________·-----·-j
sponsor other activities,'' Tri­personally, they were not in­
A random opinion survey of 30 

giani said. Saint Mary's students revealed volved. Others however ad­Other programs either spon­a lack of awareness of SMC mitted that they were apa~hetic 
1980-81 SENIOR BAR 
sored or supported by stu-student government activity. because they did not know The survey questioned students 
enough about it. 

MANAGER 
about what they believed were Many students agreed that the student government's suc­
student government's biggest 

APPLICATIONS
accomplishments involved so­
cesses and failures. Several students said that the cial concerns. However, an
Gordon joins 
Applications for the Senior .Bar Manager
equal number also said that the Cambodian Relief Program and duties of student government 
were not well publicized. Many 

~pots will he available in Rm.315 of

ACCUboard 
Student Mission Care were also
said that they were unaware that student government was very important. , the Bus.Ad•. Building from Mon.the 25th 
Many students said that theyinvolved in things other than

ofdirectors 
social. activities. They were had not realized that the shuttle to Fri.the 29thofFebruary.service was a student govern­
surp~t~ed to find that socialDr. Robert E. Gordon, vice ment concern. However, they 

I I
acttvtttes were only a small partpresident for advanced studies 

of student government con­commented that the shuttle ar Notre Dame, has been elec­passes provided this year werecerns.
ted to a ::wo-year term on the a very good idea.
Students were uncertain about board of directors of the Asso­One student said that student student government failures.

cia~ion ~(Catholic Colleges and ~overnment' s accomplishmentsOne student commented thatUntversltles, a division of the 
I

although the used book sale 'have not been in one largeNational Catholic Educational area but rather in many small
was a very good idea, it could IAssociation. 
areas. The average studenthave been better organized.
With headquarters located in. 
does not realize they haveAnother said that all of theWashington, D.C., the NCEA is 
campaign promises had not occurred. However, these small a voluntary organization of accomplishments really im­been fUlfilled, but that theymore than 14,000 educational prove our life here."
rarely were. She also commen­

institutions and individual 
Another student commentedted that many of the studentsmembers concerned with prom­that student government wasdo not realize how involvedoting and encouraging Catholic "v~ry competent in arrangingstudent government is in manyeducation in the United States. 
soctal events. It offers manydifferent aspects of studentThere are 241 Catholic institu­things to do but does notaffairs.
tions among the nation's more become an integral part ofthan l, 5QO colleges and univer­Several students questioned student life. 
were apathetic toward studentstues. 

Peace Corpsdirector 
Celeste to visit ND 
sensus berween Volunteer Ser­
by Pat Toomey 
vices, the Center for Experien·
StaffReporter 
rial Learning, and the Place· ment Bureau.

Richard Celeste, director of "We're trying to help stu·the Peace Corps and former dents find out more aboutlieutenant ~overnor of Ohio, non-traditional types of activi­will be vistting Notre Dame ties, especially those studentstomorrow. Celeste will SJ?eak at interested in social justice pro­2:20 and 8:00 p.m. 10 the grams. We wished to set up aLibrary Auditorium. 
resource library and referralCeleste has considerable ex­center,". placeme_nt b1:1reau di­perience in both social services rector Rtchard Wlllem10 said.

and politics. In the 60's, he Beaty was hired for threeworked for the Peace Corps and months in order to organizethe State Department. He was this library. When Beatyelected lieutenant governor of leaves, ACE will be maintainedOhio in 1974, and was defeated by present Placement Bureauin the gubernatorial election of personnel.
1978. President Caner named Willemin expects speakers tohim head of the Peace Corps on be a regular part of the ACEJanuary, 1979. 
program. "We're hoping for aCeleste's visit is pan of the ~eries o! talks with peoplenew Alternative Career Ex­mvolved to volunteer services '' plorations (ACE) service of the he said. "We invited Di~kPlacement Bureau. ACE is Celeste becau.se he is probablybeing organized by Tim Beaty, the top man 10 the country ina December Notre Dame gra­this field." 

duate. It was formed by con­
733 North Ironwood, South Bend 40 J lincoln Way West, Mishawaka ATTENTION ! ! ! ND-SMC STUDENTS, FACULTY, and STAFF 
BIGALL YOU CAN EAT FISH FRY EVERY SUNDAY $279 ARTHUR TREACHER'S 

COUPON
COUPON 

Fish Sandwich Special
2 pieces of fish with chips, hush puppies, and drink 
with Drink SUPERVALUE $1 59 
SUPERVALUE 5109 
expires 3-15-80 
em1ire1 3 -15:.. 80 





The Observer Thursday, February 28, 1980 -page 4 
SAPS pteaenta on 

Steakdinner, champagnefeatured Satutda match 8th 





Senior Formal 'goes in style' \ 
TOm CHAPIN 

by Roberta Bottei The $50 fee covers the cost of Brent and Don Corone; because the band, hall rental, favors this group can split into ensem­
ltmzl~~~~ In conceit~~~~~ 


Steak, champagne, and dan­dinner, conplementary dinner~ bles of ten and of five musici­cing in a spacious ballroom will for guests invited l:iy the senior ans, there will be continuous 
be among the signs that the class. music from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. Class of 1980 is "Going in Next week students will be In past /ears students had Style" at the Senior Formal, able to pick up information been force to wait in long lines Saturday, April 12, at the packets which should answer to enter the hotel shop to pick Marriott Hotel in Chicago. most of their questions accord­up their flowers. This year 
Several advantages caused ing to Perry Thomey, commit­flowers are being handled by a the six chairmen to select the tee member. Each student's professional florist who will 
Marriott as the dinner-dance packet will contain a card which distribute them directly ad­--;ire. Built about one year ago, must be sent to the Marriott at jacent to the dinner-dance floor. 
the hotel is in .he center of least three weeks in advance in Also in past formals, seating
St. mary's Little Tneater 

downtown Chicago, "an ideal order to reserve a hotel room. arrangements at tables had location on the main drag, near The card need not be accompa­been established according to 
I 
Pm 

Waterrower place, in a really nied by payment, although couples' requests, but often ueautiful building,'' 1;.-iz Castle, sending a check with the pre­these arrangements were ig­
unteaetved seating 3.00 

one of six committee members, registration notice is one op­nored, causing empty seats at 
noted. tion. Otherwise, students must certain tables and not enough
tickets thtough the smc ptogtammlng office 

It is within walking distance pay at the Marriott in one of seats at others. This year, of restaurants, bars, concerts, three ways: cash, check along numbered seating tickets will 
plays, and even the Lincoln with a credit card, or credit card be distributed with dinner tic­Park Zoo. The hotel itself alone. kets so that those persons who 
Saturday evening's cocktail

1-7": 1 r ,, features a pool, a huge patio wish to sit together will be
~--------------------------------------, 
hour from 7-8 p.m. will include insured of their seats. 

hors d'oeuvres and a cash bar. Laura Flaherty, committee
~ RISn LOUit/tAr~ sPN~=~~../• ! ~~~J~~~~;Jdl;b!1l c~~~~:g:~d 
F.,r the first time at the senior member, expressed concern

I ot5-C.4Mpv4. Ni,kf r-") ., ... i m~p~eott~~~dw~al~~~~e~. can f;mnal, dinner will feature that students realize how soon}i:;,/ ~ 
I ,_ • r-""J L.._. l. 1 1anomodate 2000 people, which steak as the main course. the formal will occur --the 
r 
Preceding the steak will be a
1--/1/ /. I U I.~-I will allow the estimated 650 to weekend after spring break -­
1 I '-e. R.S · · .2. Tlwuo•y : 700 couples to have more space melon wedge with fruit and and make their plans now if sp111ach salad. Served with the
I I I to dance on either one lar~te they intend to go. Anna 
'-'teak will be a stuffed potato, a

I I D US lC. '-'y· I dance floor or two smaller ones. O'Rourke, committee member,


/1.. u,r 

t--.L..." R.GE ltzz ~ · · ".J-J ' 1-Expenditures for this year's 1omato stuffed with cauliflower agreed ''We've put a lot of time
I 1• l1. I 
plu~ another vegetable. Bottles

I 1\A D ~ 1 formal, according to Bob Carey, and work into it ... to make this
[jg' 
o( champagne will be at each

1-t (~D. IIZZA·· ·S(}•.I.f. A1L"t.l_N,.. I Committee member, to total a really special evening,'' she I JJ -v-'-0 1 $31,500, as compared with lasr t.tblc and the meal will conclude said. "We hope that every­I_ . .ZI ID.s Dl-c: "'e · · 1 year·s t ar th Palmer w; 1h coffee ice cream in kuhlua thing run smoothly, and
._••••••••••••••••••.........-;..._______________ even e will 
•-----------------------....­


Guys and Gals 
GET A GOLDEN TAN IN MINUTES! YOU'VE HEARD ABOUT US. NOW COME TRY 1 MINUTE IN OUR BOOTHS AND SAVE $7.00 ON OUR 20 VISIT MEMBERSHIP IF YOU BRING THIS AD. TWO MIN­UTES IN OUR CENTER ~OU.i1LS TWO HOURS IN THE 
~StJN -AS SAFE AS SUN­
LJC;HT. OFFliR EXPIRES31o/80 
e.GOLDEN TAN INTL. 9·9 
Mon.-Sat.
52318 U.S. 31 North 1-5 So. Bend In. 272-5350 Sun. 

WANJ INSTANT RESPONSIBILITY? 

Being a missile launch officer in the Air Force is on awesome respon­sibility. But it's on exciting job with leadership opportunity from the word "go" 
Air Force ROTC con help you prepare for this exciting field by grant­ing two, three or four-year scholarships. These will pay for tuition, books. and lob fees, oncf g1ve you SlOO a month for some of your other college expenses.
Then, if you con quality for the missile field, you con work on on ad­vanced degree through special graduate education programs, and the Air Force will help with the expenses.
If you·re the ty_pe who's looking for an exciting future, a future of com­mitment and pnde, look 1nto this one. See 1f you qualify to be an A1r Force missile launch off1cer .and help perpetuate the traditions that have rnade our country great. 
ror more Info, oall OaJ'. DaYla •' 181-lllt 
sauce. Favors will be wine 
that everyone will go and have a-'House, which cost $4,000 less. glasses for women and shot

Consequently, bid prices per great time.'' couple have risen from $46 to gla~ses for men. . One theme was proposed by $50. The band will be a 15-piece Susan N1cholas. Elaine Bell is 
"We've kept the price down," ordH.:stra conducted by Larry the s1x1h committtT member. Carey explained. ''That's no 
jump at all, considering infla­tion is 16 percent. Our goal is to break even and to provide the 
An.alysts foresee plentifulgas
best formal possible." 1 With the asststance of ) ay Laden, a recent Notre Dame 
supplies, more price in.creases
graduate now working for Mar­riott, the committee was able to and increased automobile fuel
WASHINGTON (AP) --ThLre

get a three-pronged deal, in­efficiency, the agency is esti­
will be plenty of gasoline; this

cluding use of a disco room mating Americans will use 6.8 
with cash bar on Friday night, summer, but American drivers !'Ilillion barrels of gasoline daily 
will be using less as prices push

hall rental and dinner on Satur­10 1980, compared ro 7.03
day night, and reduced charges toward an expected year-end million barrels a day in 1979. 
for hotel rooms, cut from $72 to high of $1.50 per gallon, the 
"The refining industry

$.38. per night. ~nergy Department is predict­should have little difficulty in-Fromal tickets are on sale mg. 
meeting this level of total through April 9 --the Wednes­In a 12-month outlook of the requirements, but problems in day before the event --at nation's energy situation, de­distribution may develop in LaFortune Monday through Fri­partment economists took a providing the growing portionday from noon to 1 p.m. and in more optimistic position on of unleaded gasoline," thethe LeMans lobby Monday gasoline prices than many pri­report said. 

through Thursday from 7-9 vate analysts, who are forecast­The report said that stocks of p.m. Tickets may also be ing even steeper increases dur­gasoline are expected to be 21purchased at 25 cents apiece for ing the current year. 
million barrels higher in Marchthe raffle of one $50 bid. Because of the higher prices over a year ago and thus

, 
indicate a "relattvely comfort­
able balance of motor gasoline supply and demand at the beg10ning of the peak driving

• • • Candidates 
season." The report predicted the price for regular leaded gaso­
have to take that into considera­
line at full-service stations

[continued from page 1] tion." 
could be as high as $1. 52 by the 
After Massachusetts and Ver­
end of 1980.
Kennedy sounued the same 
mon-t vote on Tuesday, the 
The American Automobiletheme yesterday as he took his 

competition moves to Carter 
association said its latest spotcampaign m Birmingham, Ala. 

country, with primaries in Ge­

seeking votes in the state's check on prices showed motor­
orgia, Alabama, and Florida on 
ists are already paying anMarch 11 primary. 

March 11.

The senator goes home to average of $1.21 a gallon for Massachusetts for a primary regular. Some industry analysts Tuesday. White House J.>ress have said regular will climb to s<"cretary Jody Powell wtll be $1. 84 by the end of the year. satisfied if Caner picks up "a Consumption of all petroleum 

Convention

decent chunk'' of the 111 products is predicted to drop 
Democratic delegates there. from last year's 18.3 million 
Powell said 20 percent of t}le barrels daily in 1979 to 17.6 
vote would be an acceptable sponsors million barrels a day in 1980. showing for Carter in Kenne­This will contribute to a drop in dy's home state. That was an oil imports from 7. 7 milion effort to keep Carter's target as forum barrels a day in 1979 to a low as possible, in a state where projected 7 million barrels a day the president's men would 10 1980. dearly love to ambu~h their The Notre lJame Mock Con­The report said world oil rival. supplies ' appear adequate for
vention will sponsor a presiden­

"Massachusetts is the most current needs'' even though
tial forum for all interested difficult .rlace tn the nation for stude-nts tonight at 7 in the several producing countries us to wtn delegates," Powell library auditonum. State chair­were threatening to cut back 
said. "And so, in terms of men and delegates are urged to their production level as a way allocation of resources, we'll attend. of keeping their prices high. 
• 7I 5 

"t . 7 7. 't F
• I 

The Observer 
New parliament may defer hostage fate until May 
Iran's new parliament will not In a speech to the textile; be ready to decide the fate of workers, Ayatollah Moussavt the U.S. Embassy hostages Khofmi, spiritual leader of the until May at the earliest, a top embassy militants, opposed Iranian official said yesterday. such a meeting, saying the 
The official, Ayatollah Mo­U.N. inquiry is not connected hammad Reheshti, first secre­with the hostages. tary of the Revolutionary Coun­It had been assumed in Wash­cil, indicated that only a change ington that the inquiry W01fld of heart by Ayatollah Ruhollah lead to the hostages' release, 
Khomeini could lead to an but the Iranians insist there is earlier release of the hosta~es, no such link. held by Iranian militants smce The Washington official, who Nov. 4. declined to be identified, told Khomeini, leader of Iran's reporters at the State Depart­
revolution, said last weekend ment the commission should the decision on whether to free complete its work early next the Americans would be up to week "if all goes well." The 

''Anybody got tickets? I needtickets!'' Empty bleachers dream ofthe company ofwarm
the Majits, or parliament, U.N. spokesman said there was 
weather, football excitement and 59,075 screaming fans. 
which will be elected in March no fixed schedule. and early April. Reacting to Reheshti's state­ments, a high-level U.S. official 
In Colombia

said in Washington, "It could be of grave concern if the prog~~ss dragged on that 
,




Terrorists seize diplomats
long. ,
ST.ItfARY'S COlleGe
Outside the occupied embassy 
BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) -Spokesmen at the embassies The witness asked not to be 1yesterday, several thousand 
Attackers believed to be leftist of Uruguay, Austria, Switzer­identified.
textile workers staged an anti­
guerrillas shot their way into land, Egypt, Venezuela, the Military intelligence sources, , '1 
American demonstration, 
shouting "We are ready to the Dominican Republic's em­Vatican Mexico and Haiti con­asking to remain anonymous, SMILBS ,
bassy during a reception yester­firmed by telephone that their said the att:lckcrs are members
revolt against imperialism" and ~ 1
day, taking the U.S. ambassa­ambassoadors were among the of one of two Communist guer­..... 2911toJt$1-6-7_g •
"The criminal shah will be j
dor and other diplo~ats ho~­hostages. rilla groups, The Workers Self­punished here! '' 
tage, police and dtplomat~c The radio station said others $4.00 ($3.00~/&foi) i 
The U.N. investigative com­said. radto being were offense Movement or M-19. .•...••..........••.•...••....•.......•........,.............
spokesmen A held hostage themission on Iran, continuing its station pur the number of ambassadors of Guatemala, thework in Tehran, met for two hostages at about 30. United Nations, Israel and Bra­hours with Foreign Minister 
l
At least five persons outside zil and that Paraguay's ambas­Sadegh Ghotrzanfh and discus­the embassy were reported sador was wounded. Thosesed the commission's plans for 
wounded. A Bogota radio embassies were either not an­
visiting with the hostages. U.N. broadcast said a · Colombian swering their telephones orofficials said in New York. 
soldier was killed. spokesmen declined comment.
U.N. spokesman Rudolf Staju­Witnesses said about a dozen Witnesses said the gunmenhar did not say whether final gunmen began shoo~ing when a barged into the embassy withplans had be("n agreed upon, 
limousine stopped m front of guns blazing.
but he said Secretary General the embassy, bringing one of ''The young men were w~ar­Kurt Waldheim "hopes the 
the diplomats to the c~le.bra­ing orange and blue sweatshirts 
hostages can be seen soon." tion the and past
of Domtntcan were walking theThe five-member commission Republic's independence day. embassy when a Mercedes 
was established to hear Iranian U.S. Embassy spokeswoman Benz with an ambassador ar­
grievances about alleged bruta­
Cindy Fox confirmed that Am­rived,'' a witness told the radio 
lity and corruption during the bassador Diego C. Asencio, 48, station Caracol in a broadcast 
--­rule of the deposed Shah Mo­was being held at the embassy. account. 
hammad Reza Pahlavi and al­She said she had determined he ''It was then that the young A LARGE FRY leged U.S. interference in Ira­was not wounded, contrary to men penetrated the embassy.nian affairs, and U.S. grievan­an earlier radio report. Then the bodyguards of the Free With The Purchase Of: A Big-Mac~ ces over the hostage-taking. A policeman outside the em­
ambassador who arrived open­Quarter Pounder Or Quarter Pounder®The last outsiders known to bassy, who did not give his ed fire, too and there were 
nave met with the hostages -name said Asencio's body­several people wounded, in­With Cheese And A IJrink At .... 
khomeini's son and a Greek guard was wounded. A military cluding one of the attackers McDONALD'S®QF ROSELAND archbishop -visited them Feb. hospital said the bodyguard who was shot in an arm," the 
8. Before that the last to have was being treated there. witness told newsmen. 
Darde
visited groups of hostages were 
+offer good only at 
a delegation of American cler­~ymen over the Christmas holi-52665 U.S. 31 N. 
'Mc!oni~,
ay. ffi "al · · · +offer good thru
U.S. 0 ICI S say 1t IS tmpor­
... SMC Mlrn 
tant for the commissioners to March 10, 1980 see the hostages to ascertain 
+I imit 'One coupon
that they are all present at the [c:ontinued from page 9] date or ticket must have a embassy and in good condition. 
simple majority (50 percent per student please NO
Officials at the United Nations 
plus 1) of all the valid votes cast have said the Iranians wanted office by the election Commit­111 the "yes" or "no" category. ---__,
the panel members to ~Speak -----------------­
tee. Each ticket is entitled to Abstentions are considered a 
with the hostages, apparently 
one representative during the vote in the total count when in the hope it would bolstet counting. If a member of the determining the majority. If the alle~ations of U.S. interference election committee is also a number of abstentions exceeds 
Attention ALL JUNIORSIll 
dunng the shah's regime. But candidate, an alternatve repre­the number of votes all candi­Iranian authorities apparently sentative must be present and dates receive, the election will .....,..,IDII your appointmentfor your
have been unable to persuade that election committee mem­be invalidated. the militants to allow such a ber may nor be present. A new election, including yearbook portraittoday.meeting. Candidates, including write­nomination and campaign per­
ins are to be notifiell by phone iods will be planne.d s~ould the 
......__r.l,L..L.. 3557, orstop by lC Lafortlllne,
of , the results as soon as previouly stated suuauon occur possible. Numerical results ~re A candidate may demand a
Candidates availabe from the Election rcvote by su~mitting a ~et.ition '-offtf~e baRroom. Commissioner only to the can­to the electiOn commtsstoner didates and the Student Body including reasons for a revote
to meet President. Percentages are and 200 student signatures 
made available for public re­within 48 hours after the close lease. Ballots will remain in of the election. Student Government files for . The election commissioner
tonight THERE WILL BE A 
one week after the election. may call a revote without the 
There will be a meeting for A candidate may demand a request of a candidate if she $1.00 SmiNG FEE· 
all candidates for class offtce recount by submitting a petition considers it necessay. The only tonight at 10 in the Student with the reasons for the reques­time a revote i.e to occur is if Government Offices, LaFortune ted recount and 100 student improper voting procedures 
Student Center. Campaign signatures to the election com· were followed. guidelines will be discussed mtasioner. A recount must be If further information is 
ll~~PORTANT THAT ALL JUN.IORS MAKE
and petitions will be distributed called for within 48 hours after needed students should contact 
to those which the close of the election. · Mary Mullaney, election lHt~~eAPPOINTMENTS IMMEDIATELYII
tickets have com­turned in platforms. To win any election, a candi: missioner, at 234-1984. 
5 _ J . . . • I 2 2 I I I I . 5
.·.;s,. ,, .•..JJ J .•. J . .-·!#~. '. ·.:,· , •-~ • ·
t 

Thursday, February 28, 1980 -page 6




Editorials 


P. 0. Box Q 

cans. He further denies any claim to being a great moral leader through his strong advo·
Thank you 

cacy of military spending and his "bully boy-manifest des· 
tiny'' approach to solving world problems. You wonder how any of these 
from Logan 
To',the ND!SMC Community: 

issues relate to the travesty ofA few weekends ago, embryonic murder. The answerthe children and adults of lies in the following questions:Logan Center were abl<: to Is it any more moral to bring aattend the Notre Dame-Mmn.-· 
baby into this world ilnd thenDuluth hockey game due, m ignore its needs and let it starvepart, to the wonderful donat~on 
to death than it is to kill it in the
of 100 tickets by the Blue Lme Club. Although the o.utcome of womb? Is it more moral· to the game was not what we nurture the youth of this coun· hoped, we would like to extend try till age eighteen or nineteen our sincerest thanks to the Blue and then teach them to hate and Line Club for their generous send them to war to kill and donation. mutilate and to be killed an<l 
Secondly, we would like to . d~ matme · I think we need athank all of our volunteers who 

8ave an afternoon of their time candidate who will speak to ai Just-what is ourgoal?10 order to be with the kids ~t 
the moral issues--including a· the game. Your ~elp, enthust· bortion, starvation, war, crime, JerryMurphy asm, love, cheenng, and ~nd· racism, and pollution--and not a 
to ask ts just what IS the goal ot Vietnam War began, there was,
less ener~y make o_ur program candidate who harps on one "I dreamed I saw the knights in 
this nation of mine that may more or less, popular supportgo and ts appreCiated many popular issue while advoc~ui!lg armor coming ... '' want to send me overseas to for the "cause" in Vietnam.
times over. gross immorality on other lS· ·-Nez/ Young 
fight. Is the goal to reesta~lish When the bombings increasedFinally, and most importan.tly, sues. 
democracy 10 those natwns and Nixon escalated the war 
our warmest and hearnest Ronald Reagan will not be a gone astray? Are we set on into Cambodia, sentiments
thanks go out to Lefty Smith champion of moral issues in the With great interest, I have rmpressing o~;~r s~nse o~ peace, bC'gan to change. People
and the Notre Dame Hockey Notre Dame. tradition. He watched the l:lnfold~ng. ~f the 
fairplay, and JUStice whtch rem­rightfully began to questionteam. Even after a disa~point· views of vanous tndivtduals
would, if anything, only make ains with us from the days when U.S. authority when their bro­ing loss, they fo~n? th~ ttm~ to over the past few .~eeks on the . . )
the world safe for hypocrisy. If we were a Christtan n_auon. thers, sons, husbands, and 
come out and v1s1t wtth, stgn issue of the m1htary draft.
Notre Dame really wants to fathers failed to return from
autographs for, and say hello. to Along with the crises in Iran our we
speak out on morality, Ronald Whatever ideology is, thfiir tour of duty. Somehow
all the kids. Many of the ktds and Afghanistan, the draft need purity in the course _w.e
Reagan is not the voice to speak the atrocities of the shattered
will probably never remember question is the issue that cur­
take and which we must exhibit the final score, but to see and Orville Butler rently occupies the minds of for tlte scrutiny of history. If we the broken families seemed an 
through. bodies, the ruined lives, and 
talk with the players makes the those of us who will be affected mean to exert the virtue of 
excessive price to pay for thewhole day worthwhile. Once most by the decision. democracy, then why do we long-forgotten cause. Our peo­
again, our thanks and good luck I am not surprised to find the allow the Cubas and plt: were suddenly horrified.
for the rest of the season! wave of opinion on campus so
Congratulationsto 
Czec hoslovakias to exist around Were the interests of demo·
overwhelmingly to the right. It 
the world? If we are deter­cracy served at Kent State? A
been number of years
EdLoughery has a mined to secure peace in the bigger question is; do we allow
since we have had to address
Walter Bankou ski U.SHockeyTeam world, then a gun is not the ourselves to make the same
this problem seriously. What 
correct tool-·perhaps an open mistake again, and, if so, how
better position for one to st:art
Dt~.Jr Edttur: hand might serve the purpose. will we explain our mistake to
with than a safe, conservative 
There seems to be an under­our children? There are no
status quo. In response ~o the 
lying psychology that irrit:;ttes
I watched with mixed feel­srmple answers.
Abortion and Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, the problem, probably attnbu­
tngs this past weekend as i realrze the analogy is grow­
President Caner announced 
table in part to the "red
Aml:rila applauded the victory rng old, but it is a ~ean~ng.ful
that he would reinstitute the 
scares" of our parents' genera­
ol' til(· United States hockey one. Christ· began h1s mission
Ronald Reagan 
policy of conscription regi~tra· tion, and in pan t~ own
our

team 111 the Olympic Games. to convert our world to a land of
tion. I have read many artiCles unexplained paranma of t~e
J'hese young underdog athletes peace in the face of Rome's
by students condemning those communist ''heathens'' In
Dear Editor: dcsnve every bit of praise they armies and more hatred than
who would even quesuon our Russia and China. Why this is we will probably ever know.
a1e geumg, for they competed "duty" to protect the freedom so is incomprehensible to me
a~;un..:t the best and triumphed. Christ was murdered by those
I would like to commend and rights that were supposedly and can only be accurately
S,>IIH.' who opposed Him. Yet, despite
Messrs. Quinlan, Falvey, and Americans' exu· handed to us by those who were answered by our own propa­
lwranu:, however, has little to His opportunities, He never
lams for their advocating the victorious in previous wars. I gandists (yes, we have it too!).
d<J w11 h hockey, or sports for fought back. Instead, He
selection of a presidenti~l can· guess that since fellow Ameri­The notion that we must set
that rnauer. I saw Americans delivered His message of love
didate who is a champton of cans have been held prisoner right what the Rus~ian~ have 
I"('JOilC because we beat the with a11 the force and vigor that
moral issues. I would like to, since last November, we feel turned awry, ts typtcal 10 our 
.. had guys," but I doubt that any army has ever fought with,
it's time Uncle Sam got up to go
but I can't. soL"iety. Believe H or not, t~e
tltt players themselves fdt and this message has proved to
teach them a l.esson. Maybe it
I agree with the~ that ab?r· all} dtmg but respect for what Russians and Chmese are !Iv· outlilve all the armies this world
is time the U.S. did something 
ing, thinking, and caring peo·
tion is a great moraltssue whtch h..lti b<Tn alknowledged as the but we must remember that the has been able to muster. Christ 
must not be overlooked. I also pie too ..just like us. Just as ':"e was ~ pacifist and we have
bt'-.,1 hm key team in the world.. 
world isn't some lawless saloon 
believe in the U.S., the Russian
agree that Ronald Reagan is ~he wltcthn thar team was made up inhented Hrs example.
and Uncle Sam isn't any Clint 
believes in Russia. Russia is l do not mean to imply thatonly candidate who has constst· 1),. s.•vict citizens or polar bears. Eastwood..thank God! 
their home, the land that has
ently spoken out against abor· We should be proud of this there can be only one solution
The feeling seems to be that 
provided for the~ with all they to our situation, but only that antion. But that hardly makes tt·am because they beat the 
what we have here is a case of 
have for generauon upon gen· incompletely thought out res·him a champion of morality. best, not because they beat 
the good guys against the bad. 
eration. It, too, is the land th~t 
··, ho!'>l' commies.'· pect for authority. m<~:kes such
Does a champion of morality, The Soviet Union is the one that they wish to pass on to t~e1r authority both unJUStified andfor instance, ignore the needs l'lw U.S.· victory was nor a is challenging the good and the children. When I was tounng undemocratic. Personally, I do ofthe poor while catering to the vtdory of the free world over justice that U.S.·style demo· Russia five years ago, I did not not intend to be made into a tinwants of the rich? Ronald c•Jll1munism. It was a victory of cracy brings. Maybe so, but let find anyone who would not soldier. I prefer the stroke ofReagan has consistently worked IW<"IHY hockey players and their us not forget that the Shah, extend to me the same courte­
on the pen to the st_rike .o~ thet•>aL"h<:s who can look back
against the interests of the supported by the U.S., was not sies that we extend to any ofour sword. Is it too 1deal!suc tothis week this year when they exactly the nicest guy around
lower classes in this country, visitors. Simply enough, the believe in peace and trust inwne rhe be~t hockey ream in
whether those interests be wei· during his reign. The_ CIA mutual fears break down once reason? Of course it is! It is,
the world, and know that their didn't help out the antt-U.S.
fare rights of farm worker we give each other a chance. 
however, the way Christ meantt:ount ry was very proud of leaders in South America dur· To get back to the question of

unionization. He has steadfast· it to be and seemingly the only
tht:m. ing their heydays either. 
the draft, let us not forget the
ly ignored the need~ of Afr~· viable alternative if we are to
Michael Sullivan I ~uess what I am compelled lessons ofpast wars. When the
Americans and Spamsh-Amen· avoid the unthinkable. 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers
The news is reported as accurately and
-TheObserver_ 

as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor·in·chief ....... .Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ... ...............Mark Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor.......... Diane Wilson Features Editor ... ..Kathleen Co~n~lly&xQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentilries, Editona/ Editor ..............Ann Gales Photo Editor ..............Doug Chnsuan 
The Obser~~er is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's Collqe. It does not necessarily rdkct rhe policies of rhe 

opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is avail­able to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Senior Copy Editor .........M. Onufrak Executive News Editor .... .. Mike Lewis News Editor ...........'.........Mark Rust News Editor ...... ...........Mike Shields SMC News Editor........Margie Brassil 
Business Manager ......:. Steve Odland Production Manager .... John McGrath Advertising Manager .. .Mike Holsinger Controller..................Kevin Manion Circulation Manager ...... Greg Hedges_ 


Features 
Thursday, February 28, 1980 -page 7 
The Conversation: Cup of misery 
Two white spotlights lit the back corner of the black, brick Wahington Hall stage. The setting, a foreman's brewery office in Czechoslovakia in 1976, appears distinguishable only by the wooden desk, cluttered with paperwork, one silver metal swivel cha!~ behind the desk, and a straight­bac~red ·.vooden chair placed at the desk cc rner. The set offers no elaborate staging, no painted back­drops, no complicated props ­nothing. In that "nothing" set, two actors used expression and dialogue to trap the audtence into a very real, detailed understanding of man's need for friendship. Society's com­plicated, competitive job system, man's principles, lost hopes and ultimate misery -''The Conversa­tion". 
The audience sat on stage, semi­circularly around the stark set, which added intimacy to the production. In that close arrangement, actors Miles Coiner and John Wilmott captivated the audience with their sensitive interpretation of Vaclav Havel's ''The Conversation,'' 
The drama opens with the fore­man, Coiner, resting ~is head lazily on the desk, a half-fimshed glass of beer sits at his elbow. A knock introduces Vanek, the loading dock 

worker,  J?layed  by  Wilmott.  The  
foreman  mvites  Vanek  to  sit  and  
drink a beer.  

"The Conversation"begins. Vanek appears reserved, nervous, and cau­tious about exposing himself to the prying, drunk foreman. The loading dock worker only sips the beer, claiming he does not drink much. However, the foreman states that he'll learn to drink it at the brewery. 

"We all drink it aroundhere. It's a kind of tradition. . " Wilmott successfully protrays the easy, young writer, cautious and curt, but also draws the audience into understading his plight and the frustration and fear which surrounds his brewery job and threatened writing career. The fore­man continuously says to Vanek, "Don't be depressed," to which the worker sharply replies, "I'm not depressed.'' Later the discussion reveals a mutual depression and misery that the foreman and worker share, each in their own conceptual realm. 
The foreman searches for friend­ship with the brewery worker. the "fair minded guy" questions Vanek about his playwriting and sympa­thizes with the writer's plight: 
"What dzd you do before you came here . .. Plays, you mean, for the theater?! . ..Well, we ain 't never had a playwright before. . .guess you never thought it'd happen . .. " 
Yet the foremanrecognizesVanek's need for help and his own desire to befriend the intellectual playwright. 
''I can tell an honest man when I see one and I can tell a crook when I see one, too. . . People can be real sons-ofbitches. You're an honest man and so am /, so why shouldn't we stick together . .. '' 
The foreman states that the choice of friends is an "inalienable right" 1but requests that Vanek not allow his collegues to visit him at the brewery. Vanek needs the foreman's support for his job and possibly the promotion to the warehouse. The foreman, plagued with questions about the playwright from the police, doesn't want the responsibility of writing weekly reports for the police on the worker's actions. Thus, the foreman 
presents a deal to Vanek. The new 
"buddies" should help each other 
out and so the foreman proposes that 
Vanek write his own reports for the 
police in exchange for a "nice and 
cozy and warm" warehouse position. 
The foreman claims, "Do your little 
part and it will all turn out trumps.'' 
Yet, the foreman reveals that he is 
also looking out for himself by 
redesignating the report writing. He 
tells Vanek that one of "them" that 
snoops around has helped out the 
foreman before and''. . .I could need 
him again." The two men drink more 
beer. 

Vanek knows he needs the ware­
house position and wants to stay out 
of trouble. The foreman wants the 
friendship and suJ )Ort of the intel­
lectual. In the deal, tlie actors expose 
their oppositely-ended miseries. Al­
though Van~~ needs the position, he 
refuses to yteld his principles in 
return for the job. 
''Please don't misunderstandme. . I can't inform on myself ..There's a pn·nczple . . . How can /force myselfto participate in something I've always found repugnant? . .. " 
Vanek remains a firm, rational 
character throughout the drama and 
Wilmott accurately portrays the 
strong, thoughtful, and unyielding 
brewery worker. 

With the refusal, the drunken foreman flies into rage and criticism of the "fine gentleman," and breaks down in his uneducated, working class misery. 
''Nobody gives a shit about me. .. But you got your pn·nciples. . .I ask you to get your hands a little bit dirty . .. But no, the fine gentleman got your principles. . .I'm just good 
Beth Healy 
enc:u~h to shovel the shit your pnnczples can grow in . .. " Coiner handles the scene with utmost sensi­tivity and evokes compassion from th.e audience as he cries, ''Nobody gz~es a shit ~bout me. . . Lead a f----g mzserable lzfe and don't get nothing out ofit. Where can I go?" 
The foreman sees his life as a ":aste, an unintellectual, lazy, slob­btsh waste. He dreams for some contact with Vanek's intellectual realm and begs the playwright to ~,ring 3: beautiful actress to Lhe plant 
.. -J.USt fo; one. evening. Maybe then zt won t. be .all for nothing; maybe then thzs mzserable life won't be a complete waste . . .Do this for me. Ifyou don't, I don't know what I'll do ....It's at/ a f----g mess!" 
Vanek faces another misery. Having 
had the success the foreman dreams 
of, Vanek has watched his life 
crumble because of his adherence to 
his principles, Now, because he 
rejects the deal, Vanek surrenders 
his future to loading barrels at the 
brewery. 

Vanek leaves the desk to use the bathroom. Upon returning, he grabs the brown glass beer bottle and drains it. Just as one "learns to drink" beer as "a kind of tradition" in the brewery, Vanek: and the foreman learn to accept milsery. Men, lik~ the character Vanek and play­wttght' Vaclav Havel, shall continue living in misery, for "It's all a f-----gmess." 
On that stark set in Washington ~all, Patrick Fanning successfully dtrected actors Coiner and Wilmott to sensitively depict the misery life blankets men like the foreman Vanek and Vaclav Havel in and th~ constant yet seemingly hopeless struggle for a change. 


] ens en ~tages' rock concert 
Molly Woulfe 
Okay, the lady can act (has had starring roles for three running years in Utah's Shakespeare Festival, for instance). And she's written "be­tween twenty and thirty'' plays herself, sixteen of which have been produced at colleges, regional thea­ters, and experimental theaters. And her numerous honors include a commission to write a . full-length historical play £or Robert Red···ford~s Sundance Theater this year. So what else can she do? 
Direct. 
Teeth 'N' Smiles, David Hareis savage play about the... ·.rock 'n' roll world, which features live rock on stage, is the latest artistic undertak­ing by Julie Jensen, assistant profes­sor of Speech and Drama. It is Jensen's fifth directing venture in the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theater (previous plays directed include Beckett's Happy Days and O'Neill's A Touch ofthe Poet). 
Teeth traces the deterioration of a ~econd-~ate Britis~ rock group play­mg the1r last gtg one night in Cambridge, 1969. Their backstaged and unstaged lives are revealed by way of a revolving stage, designed forJensen's production by ND Senior. Mark Harris. 

"It's a very tough, obscene play,'' Jensen comments, . · · that nearly an hour's worth script had to be left out, the more explicit obsceniry; · 
cuts don't destroy the sense of the characters.'' 
"We couldn't show them as the Partridge Famtly, because they're not," agrees Adri Trigiani, associate director and a SMC junior. 
Jensen first viewed a production of Teeth several years ago .m New York, and was attracted by it's "high-ener~ gy'' intensity;She has metHare1 the playwright., and remarks "He's U!l· pretentious, caring, and thoughtfuL He always writes plays concerned with things going wrong. He writes for a reason; you have to supply y<tur own social statement.'' · .· 
The Teeth .. 'N' · Smiles band, dubbed ''The Unknown Band'' by critics, consists of a lead singer, Maggie (Rachael Patterson), and her four burned-out back-up musicians, Smegs, Peyote, Wilson and Nash (Michael Daly, Doug Klee, Greg· Hayes, and Greg. D'Alessa~dro). 
Daly plays lead gmtar, Klee 1s on bass guitar, Hayes heads the key­boards, and D' Alessandro is on drums. The five ND students had never sung or jammed together before Teeth, but reproduce theJanis · Joplin/Jefferson Airplane/Who beat of the sixties astonishingly well, according to Jensen. 

Cast of "Teeth 'N' Smzles." [photo by Kathy Horgan] 

-----~--~ 
~-•
' .' 
The Observer Thursday, February 28, 1980 -page 8 

New parental testing may help prevent infant deaths 

BOSTON (AP) -New tests may tell parents whether they are likely to have children who are susceptible to sudden infant death syndrome, the mysteri­ous disorder that is the nation's biggest killer of infants. 
The tests show that parents of susceptible babies often do nN inhale powerfully if their breath is cut off. And even though this is not a serious problem for grownups, researchers theorize that it may be a fatal effect if passed on to children. 

The new study, conducted at Rutgers Medical School, was published in Thursday's issue of the New England Journal of Medicine.
H<'ctPe fur a good time: great friends, a cold beer and an
Fight, team, win/ Sudden infant death syn­
ll'lsh vtL·tury over DePaul. (photo by Beth Prezzo] 
drome, sometimes known as 

BBIDGI! McGUIBI'S 
PUSIIB!S 
DAY HAPPY HOUR 
3 drafts for $1.00 2 KAMIKAZilS for $1.00 


and sat.mar. llt-------------1 
zs• DRAftS 4-7~m 
For further informahon Wntr: Fathrr Andrr lrvr1llr. CSC Box 541 Notre Damr. Indiana 46556 
F 
are now available for the positions of STUDE~T UNION COMMISSIONERS AND COMMISSION COMPTROLLERS. 
They maybe picked up at the STUDENT 
UNION 
OFFICE 
on 2nd floor Lafortune 

' 
??~ APPLICATIONS' ~? 9 DUE 
• • I' MARCH 12. 
~? 
£ ~ 
. 

I 
• from fEB 27 'til MARCH 7. 

I 
• 
Boston public TV 


WGRHexcels 
NE,W YORK. (AP)-A billowing Unwn Jack heralds the start of each Masterpiece Theatre pro­duction from Britain. Suddenly there it is. "WGRH Boston." 
Madcap cook Julia Child stirs, chops, and chortles her way through another session of "The French Chef," and there it is again. ''WGRH Boston.'' 
!he logo pops up on televi­sions all over the country dozens of times a week. Public television 'station WGRH is per­haps the country's No. 1 ,produ­cer of pro~rams exch.1s1ve of news, desptte its location in a broadcast market ranked only sixth. 
"It's due to a lot of things,'/ said Sam Tyler, who as director of development raised $4. 5 million this year to run WGrh radio and TV, plus several million dollars more for buying and producing programs. 
"First of all, we're in a very supportive community,'' he satd. "People who live in Boston have a good deal of civic pride, they support the arts and culture, and they've provided the money and other resources that we've required. 
"In addition to that," Tyler said, "We've got the talent to make our operation grow, and 
... Crash 
[wntinued from page 2] 
"The fuel cap was, m fact, ripped off during the test and the fuel tank was drained completely,'' Harrfrstadsaid. 
During slow-motion film seg­ments on five of the cars, including the Pinto, jurors cou1ti see the front of the van riding up over the rear of the vehicle and forcing it into the ground. In the 1978 crash, that motion caused deep gouges in the asphalt pavement of In­diana 33 between Elkhart and Goshen. 
The only vehicle not forced 
into the ground was the Che­
verolet Impala, the heaviest of 
the cars. In that case, the rear 
of the van went off the ·ground 
on impact. 
. Cosentino, who plans to be­
gm cross examination on the 
tests today said he had ques­
tions about the effect of weight 
differences in the crash ve­
hicles . 
grow well, and the manage­ment at WGRH is relatively laissez-faire. Managers are left to run their own departments.'' 
Consider the Tyler assessment in light of ''This Old House,'' one rather extraordinary WGRH production.
The chief character is Russell Morash, producer of two of the station's best-known how-to programs, "French Chef' and "Crockett's Victory Garden." 
''Russ had proven he could do things that w~re both appealing and successful, and he decided last December it might be fun to take an old Victorian house, ript it down, and show people how to put it back together -in 13 lessons," Tyler said. 
''The show was No.1 in the ratings in Boston last spring, and it's been funded by Mont­gomery Ward for national dis­tribution this year. 
''The station took in excess of $100,000... gave it to Morash' and he gave them 'This Old House,' which the audience, and the station, loved." 
"This Old House," in 39 installments, including the 13 broadcastJreviously in Boston, will be fe nationally to Public Broadcasting Service stations this fall. 
A year ago, WGRH was behind public TV's most ambi­tious project to date, dramatiza­tion of Nathaniel Hawthorne's ''The Scarlet Letter.'' 
It was a huge task by any standard, from creating a 17th century New England town near Newport, R.I., to the research that provided detail for the film. 
"In dig·ging beneath the com­monly held notions of what 17th century Boston was like,'' WGRH said, ''we found that far from being dour and dingy, Puritan America was in fact a colorful, almost gaudy place, brightened by gay costumes and decorated fufmture. '' 
Some WGRH productions re­quire less elaborate prepara­uon, "Crockett's Victory Gar­den" for example. WGRH stu· dios are on land leased from Harvard University, and the garden itself backs up against the Crimson football stadtum. 
Julia Child, perhaps best known among WGRH television personalities, began her TV career in 1961 with an ap­pearance on a locally broadcast 
[continued on page 9] 
~rib death, is especially shock­
mg for parents because it takes 
the .lives. of seeminsly healthy 
bab1es Without warmng in their 
sleep. Its ex?ct cause is not 
known although some doctors 
believe that it represents sev­
eral possible defects rather 
than a single disease. 
Sudden infant death syn­drome is the leading cause of death of children between one week and one year in age. In the United States each year, it takes more than 10,000 babies, most often in the third and fourth months of life. 
Doctors tested the breathing of six pairs of parents of babies who had died of the syndrome and compared them with six normal couples. They measured whether the adults breathed harder when levels of carbon dioxide in their blood increased or when their breathing was obstructed. 
In both tests, the breathing response of the parents whose children had died was "sig­nificantly lower," the research­ers found. 
They concluded, "A low ven­tilatory response to carbon dio­xide and a diminished compen­satory response to increased airway resistance may increase a potential parent's risk of having a child susceptible to SIDS." 
Dr. Philip L. Schiffman, one of the researchers, said it would be impractical to give the breathing tests to all adults who want to have children, but they could be administered to those who believe the disorder runs in their families. 
Carbon dioxide builds up in the blood when people exercise or hold their breath. Normally, they breathe harder when this happens so they will take in more oxygen. They also instinctively gasp for breath if their breathing is cut off. 
The failure to breathe harder automatitally in these situ­ations, may be the common inherited link in many cases of sudden infant death syndrome, Schiffman said. 

These babies may stop breathing if their noses are ) stuffed up by colds, if they lie in an odd position or if their chest muscles relax during sleep, the researchers wrote. 
Many babies may have this poor breathing reflex, but their breath is never accidentally cut off during sleep, Schiffman said. So they survive the criti­cal first year of life, then grow up and pass ·the effect on to their own children. 

NDROTC leads in 

scholarships 
Both Army and Navy ROTC units at Notre Dame lead the nation in the number of scholar­ship students enrolled. The room and board, tuition and living expense awards are pre­sented annually to outstanding high school students who may then select the university of their choice. 
Notre Dame was the first choice of 117 Army ROTC scholarship winners and 236 Navy award retipients. There are 279 schools providing the Army training and 55 Navy ROTC units. The Navy scholar­ship winners include 27 enrol­led in Marine Corps programs. 

r:-..•. .~· .. '_:::-~ ,. '.... .t,:"''o ,.::• •.-r•.. 
a -.· 
~-------------------------------------------------------~~---------------------------­
. . 
-.••. 
~he Observer rJ.t~:utsday, February 28, 1980 -t>age·9 
----------------------------------------------------------------~ 
...WGRH
Election Results  
BEHNEY· RIEHLE­HALL GUILFOYLE CIANCIO  OTHER  
Alunmi 194 37 Badin _20 76 -B-P 59 97 Carroll 9 48 Cavanaugh 50 47 Dillon 50 76 Farley 42 105 Flanner 128 153 Grace 78 160 Holy Cross 28 59 Howard 45 56 Keenan 11 237 Lewis 50 128 Lyons 68 74 Morrissey 69 74 Pangborn 42 109 Sorin 32 68 Stanford 53 77 St. Eds 42 34 Walsh 48 78 Zahm 69 86 Fisher 23 76 0-C 12 54  2 0 1 4 0 3 1 12 1 1 7 6 0 0 2 1 10 2 8 1 3 3 0  
ITOTAL 1222 2009  89  

[continued from page B] 
WGRH program to promote her new cookbook. 
On the show, she made an omelet, which is definitely not to say she laid an egg. The following summer, she was invited to make three pilot programs. "The French Chef' premiered Feb. 11, 1963. This season's show is called "Julia Child & More Company.'' 
The value to WGRH of such programs goes beyond what's on the air. At one point last year, WGRH had four books on the New York Times' best seller list: "Julia Child & Company," "Julia Child & More Com­pany," "Crockett's Victory Garden" and "Crockett's Vic­tory Garden Indoors." 
Just over 500 reople are on. the WGRH payrol , operating two television stations and the radio station. Tyler said it costs about $30 million a year to run them all, with much of the money coming -from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting as well as other public TV stations. 
''A good year is when · we break even or don't lose too much ... But we have to hustle 
.SBP/SBVP 

for 85 percent of our money 
[continued from page I] 
suggested that the drop was due to a lower turnout from off-campus students. According to Call, more off-campus stu­
every year, and I mean hustle. 
dents voted ~in Monday's elec­

If we didn't ask for it, we 
tion because the FLOC referen­

wouldn't get it," he said. 
dum, off-campus commissioner 

WGRH was the first public TV 
candidates, and the ticket of 

station to buy color equipment. 
Carey-Marshall were on the 

"But when you get yourself so 
ballot. 

well-equipped your challenge is 
to use it. And that meands yoiu've ~otto keep the business coming m,'' Tyler said. 
How WGRH puts those exten­sive facilities to work is best observed in the tbreadth of programming it makes availa­ble to PBS stations, Tyler s~,tid. The range is from imports like "Masterpiece Theatre" and this season's:. "Myster," to shows like the science series "Nova" and the long-running "Evening at Pops" and "Even­ing at Symphony'' music pro­grams. 
"The reason there is such diversity," he said, "is that there are few million-dollar or multimillion-dollar projects a­mong them. 
"We've always prided our­se)ves in the funding packa~es we've put together, not askmg for a lot from each source, maybe $300,000 or $400,000." One series now in production is typical. ''The Vietnam Pro­ject," a 13-week examination of 
U.S. involvement in Vietnam and produced in collaboration with ABC News, is planned for broadcast in the 1981-82 sea­son. The project's $4 million pricetag is being raid with money from severa sources, including the National Endow­ment for the Humanities. 
•------~~!JULIO'S PIZZA COUPOit•-•----.. 
I I 
IIKTJlODUCTORY ornRorMORE THAK 1llfz PRICE orr ADELICIOUS 14:-IXCH 1 I WHOLEWHIA'I PIZZA· $z9owith 1
1 . . . . 
This is for a rteiiCIOUS P!zza WithI Mozzarella and 1 other toppmg.
I 

I 
I 'These are incomprable delicious &I wholesome pizzas made with all natural ingredients. 100 ·percent wholewheat flour, honey in place of sugar, low. fat M.ozzarella cheese and ~ one ether mgredtent. 
I OFDil EXPIBES flli DB. 19... 4 delivery I I ·JULIO'S PIZZA, IKC. ~coupon I
,__________________________,
I 2809 S. Michigan hours 4pm to 11:30p111l 287-1034 I 
th1s coupon1
We Also 1 Specialize In I • THill &CRISPY • 
• STUFF~D PIZZA • I 
• TACO PIZZA • I 
• Thick & Chewy • 1 
• Pan Piua • 1 
wt D(UVtl J 
$ 00 with I 
by Mary Leavitt StaffReporter 

Dates and rules for the saint Mary's Student Body election 
have  been  released  by  Mary  
Mullaney,  Election  Commis­ 
stuf1s:r..1  .,  

Nominations open on March 12 fo.r the position of Student Body President, Vice President of Academic Affairs and Vice President of Student Affairs. Nominations end and cam­paigning begins at midnight on March 16. The election will then be held on March 20. 
All nominee<> must attend a mandatory meeting in the Stu­dent government office on March 16 at 7 p.m. 
If candidates wish to debate after each party's platform has been submitted the debate may be held on March 18. 
The rules for this year's election are newly revised and were just passed by SMC Student Government last week. 
Campaigning rules take ef­fect on March 16 at midnight and end at midnight before election day. The designated rules are as follows and must be adhered to by all the candi­dates 
No posters will be allowed in Nladeleva, (with the exception of the Day Student Lounge), the Science Building, Moreau and · the classroom section of Regina Hal. Since platforms will be on display in the dining hall, no posters will be allowed on the upper level 
Each ticket or candidate may display one poster in the library and one in LeMans Lobby. Posters may not exceed two feet by three feet 
No signs or sheets may be displayed outside any build­ings, including the dining hall and Madeleva and residence halls. In addition, no campaign shins, buttons, or the like may be worn by the candidates on the day of the election. 
The current student body president has the ultimate word concerning violations of cam­paigning rules-and/or election procedures after consultation with the Election Commissioner 
and  the  Student  Government  
Advisor.  
Candidates  for  any  of  the  

tlm.T student body positions must submit the names of the three people on their ticket and three copies of a one page, typed platform to the Election Cornissioner. Platforms will not be accepted after nominations close. All platforms are to be posted the next day by the election commissioner in the dining hall for the benefit of the student body. 
Balloting should take place between Wa.rn. and 6 p.m. on election day. The ballots must be initialed by a member of the Election Committee or a repre­sentative of the election Corn­missioner on duty at the ballot boxes. The voter must put her initials next to her name on the 

Lewis Hall sponsors 

family 
Lewis Hall is sponsoring a family for Lent and asks that faculty and students lend their support. Clothing, a crib and other articles are needed for an infant. Anyone who would lit<e to help may call Beth Prezio at #4629 or Sue Fleck at #8884. 

dass list. 
Counting of ballots will take place between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m.· Notification of the results ::.lwuld take place by 9 p.m. by the election commissioper. 
Tile ballots will be counted in the Studenr Government 
·[continued on page 5] 





SHIRTS

Delegates hold 


ON YOU
mandatory 
LOFT OF THE lOOCENTER


meeting 
.DJIJSIYS 
Iao•o•s

There will be a mandatory meeting for all Pennsylvania 
SILK SOUI.IR& 
I 

... JOU shirtis Or our lhirtil) II 5 O'Shaughnessy Hall. The 
delegates tonight at 7 in room 

r----------­

-----------~----~--··---------· 
meeting will concern the 35 page platform, voting strategy, 
1l0%DISCOUN1' i general rules of the convention, and what a delegat~ can and 
!GOODATBOTHSTORES i 
cannot do. 
~-------------~tP-~!>~S~j;_ll2.......J 

Student body elections 




SMC announces rules 
PLANTS 

TOGO 


.. 
The Observer Thursday, February 28, 1980-page 10 
Doonesbury by Garry Trudeau ...Women 

[contined from page 11} 

jirophet than a coach, DeCicco expressed his prediction for the eqi.iad's future; ... eee it in the cards -it won't take a whdle lot more for us to be a top contender for the national championship. The girls are working their fannies off, and I just love them for what they're doing.'' 

...Fencers 
[continued from page 12]

Molarity by Michael Molinelli The Tartar epee squad will 
give the Irish a real run for their money. Gil Pezza, a junior from Milari, Italy, is a returning All-American. He sports a 30-3 mark, and is supported by Mike Davis and Geza Kogler, who both own 29-4 records. 

Sophomore Kevin Tindell and freshman Rich Daly lead the Irish epeeists, posting marks of 24-6 and 18-4, respectively. Epee captain Thorn Cullum, last year's representative to the national finals, is 21-9. 

Gold medalist Yuri Rabinovich has graduated from Wayne State, leaving the brunt of the sabre chores in the hands of Tom Kleckner and Neil Hick. Kleckner is 28-5, while Hick is 27-6. 


Senior ca{>tain Chris Lyons
ACROSS 32 Utmost 57 Western 12 Straighten 
heads the Insh sabre corps with 
1 Where the degree capital 13 Strength 
a 32-4 mark. Classmate Greg
ark rested 33 Sky altar 60 Cuckoopint 22 Sluggish· 7 WWII 34 Perused 64 Here, in ness
The Daily Crossword 

Armi is 29-7, while Sal Muoio 
group again Aries 23 Extremist 
and Tom Valdiserri own respec­
11 Headgear 37 Attentive 65 Bag 25 Israeli 
tive marks of 17-4 and 10-4. 
14 Beach house 40 Earring, 66 Seattle -dance 
"We've been aiming at this

15 -·Ala for one football 27 Recording 
one for some time now. We may
16 High priest 42 Why's coach medium 
17 Aries answer 68 Carney or 28 City on 
not be favored like we have in 
the past, but I can guarantee
18 Stratum 44 Otherwise Linkletter the Oka 
19 Outfit 45 "I be~. 69 Noun suffix 29 Home of 
you that we'U be fencing the 
20 Piedmont to-70 Retaliate the Chiefs 
same as in the past. Right now 
city 47 Bolivian 71 Waterloo 31 Talkathon 
I'm just keeping my fingers
21 Steelers export marshal 35 Finis 
crossed.''
milieu 48 Consumed 72 Walter or 36 Aberdeen's 24 Bigger-50 Part of Donna river 
breadbox "to be" 73 Naughts 38 Greek 26 Fragrant 51 Discharge letters 27 Edo, now 53 Goose genus DOWN 39 Sibley 
NSHP 
·•.nAPt

30 Breakfast 55 Garden 1 Court pro-or pup 
bl>• 

food bloom ceedings 41 Restrain 2 Stadium 43 Indian 
Wednesday's results cheers 46 Like some 


seeks 
3 Assist mail 4 Unusual 49 Pencil end thing 52 Kitchen 

workers 
5 Literary gadget collection 53 Man from 
The Neighborhood Study 

6 Floridian Hanoi 
Help Program needs to fill 
port 54 Mother-of­

several pos'i rions for the 198<r­
7 Power of pearl 
ll)H 1 school year. Various
a kind 56 Gem 8 Landed 58 Leo·s pride 
choices are open to anyone 
9 City in 59 -homo 
currently involved and/or inter­
Iowa 61 City on the 
ested in helping to coordinate 
10 Paper or Truckee 
the program. For information, 
copy 62 Encourage
2/28/80 

call Sue Claus at #41-4514,John 
© 1980 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. 

11 City on the 63 West et al.
All Rights Reserved 

Sax at #232:0265 or Joe
Wabash 67 Blvd. 
Wirchger at #7102. 
Ir-----~------~---~ 
. . RIVER CITY RECORDS .._, 
GET YOUR CAREER OFF TOA

I northern lndiQna 'aiQtgett record and tapelI 
FLYING START

I aelectlon ond concert heodquGitett I 
It takes four years to get a college decree. How long will ~ take you fo get a oooct job? If you haven't setfled on a company or corporation yet,why not get your executive career off to a flying start as 

I I
olbumottope 

1 limit one coupon per person 1 
a pilot or novlaator In the United States ATr Force? Irs the finest flight program In the world. the pay Is excellent. and you'll enjoy the prestigethat goes with the silver wingsof an Alr Force pilot or navi­

1 s11stso 1 


I ...Ill~}~ I 
gator. ­It's one of the finest oppor­tunities In the nation. And a 
great place to gain executive experience with million dollar

I acceptedfOt.vpto
I 
.~ver pv~eh()te, amount 
responsibility. Find out todayI about the Alr Force flight pro­gram. Contact
I 11.50 OFF LARGE PIZZA II Gap'. Davis 
., 181·8184

I 14 ln./31tem pizza only I 1 
I usual pllcels S6.00 I 1 
L__ADD Jl.OOfotdellvery.__J L...J=====~==--1 






'., 


The ·observer tfiursdaY. ._February 28, 1980 -page 11 

Irish-won1en fencers in1prove  ...Tripucka  
by Kelly Sullivan program affords them the op­produce.'' Sports Writer portunity to work with a guy Valdiserri, a South Bend na­like Andy Bonk, who's a natio­tive comes from a family of Record breakers are a tough nal champion.'' fen~ers. Two of her brothers act to follow. ] ust ask Beth "As a result, the women have fenced for,;:he Irish and Heiden. Or Notre Dame's wo­measure their program by the her siste,r Kathy, also a Notre men fencers. standards of a national cham­Dame gr11-duate, was one of the Competin~ in a minor sport pion." first monbgram winners in wo­means takmg a back seat to The twelve-member squad is men's fencing. "Susie is mak­football and basketball, and young, having only 3 seniors on ing a name for herself,'' DeCic­that's difficult enough. The Its roster. Team captain Dodee co added. Notre Dame women fencers Carney, who sports a 26-5 The trish will be put to the test must alwo contend with the fact record, is followed clcsely by this Thursday when they travel that their accomplishments are senior Liz Bathon, 27-7 on the to Wayne State, a perennial for the most part overlooked or year. The fencers have been powerhouse. "We'll find out lost among the men's 122 hurt by the loss of sophomore ho~. good a team we are after consecutive fencing victories. Marcella Lansford, who has fencing against one of the top But the squad has shown that it missed better than half the teams in the country,'' says can follow an act like that with season due to illness. "She's in DeCicco. The team has only one  [continued from page 12] rebounds may even have been the highlight ofTripucka's bas­''At the beginning of the ketball history. "It is probably year, I thought I might not have the biggest win so far in my been shoonng enough," Con­career." ceded Tripucka, reflecting on And it came at a time when Notre Dame's December and the Irish were 10 need of January performances. momentum going into the But since the dismal contest NCAA tournament, after their against North Carolina State lackluster bumblings Notre that left media and fans ques­Dame proved to themselves tioning the merits of Notre they have the resources to beat Dame's glorified billings in the anybody in the country. With polls, it has been Tripucka on Kelly Tripucka healthy, happy,the comeback trail with six and playing confidently, the straight 20 point plus ba)l­Irish seem to have discovered games. the best remedy for any ail­Last night's 28 points and 8 ment.  
im_pressive results as welL experienced competitor who home match remaining on the  
Needless to say, DeCicco is would have presented this team schedule. They host Washing­ 
quite pleased with the pro­with an absolutely super ton University, Michigan/Dear­gram's achievements, but re­punch," notes DeCicco. The born and Case Western Rel fuses to take credit for the remaining senior,denise Hara­serv~ on March 1 in the ACC.  Craig signs with Flames  
success, giving a good deal of it dem, has taken up the slack in DeCicco is looking forward to  
to assistant Coach Greg Muel­Lansford's absence. According the qualifications for the na· ler and the team's method of to her coach, Haradem "is clonal championships on Marc}Jt practice. holdin!f her own and then 8. Teams or individuals must:  ATLANTA (AP)-Olympic hoc­over Finland Sunday 10 the key goalie Jim Craig s1gned a Winte-r Olympics last Sunday. long-term contract with the "Olympic hockey has done a  
"Someone asked me how some. finish in _the top two ~ ~eif" come the women have made A pleasant surprise has been regionals m order to be ehg1ble• 1 such great progress in such the performance of freshman "We'd like to qualify the whol~ little time. It has nothing to do Susie Valdeiserri (17 -12}, who team. I'm lio~ing everyone wi . with my coaching," DeCicco DeCicco says is ''fencing out of be healthy ana we'll be fightin explains. ''The fact that they her mind-she's not producing [continued on page 10]work out daily with the men's like a freshman normally would  Atlanta Flames of the National lot for professional hockey. 1We Hockey League Wednesday, happen to have the draft rightsthe team announced. to the most recegnizable and Craig, an All-American at Bos­best known member of that ton University, was goaltender (U.S.) team," Flames spokes­on the u.s~ 'team that won a man John M:•rshall gold medal with t 4-2 victory  
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Obserrver office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. AllClassifieds classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail.  
Notices Wanted Help! Need ride to St. Louis this' TJS and Jame M. Attention Seniors-weekend. Feb. 29. Gail SMC-4629. Will determinish ever bring US Senior Arts Festival is coming. PleaseMorrissey Loan Fund N D Student Need ride to Chicago area thia Thurs. Will share expenses. together? submit manuscripts to Student Unionloans. $20-$200. Due in one month. or Fri. Will share expenses. Please call The Queen Bitch office, 2nd floor LaFortune, by MarchOne percent interest. Basement of Tim at 232-7314. ' Daisy C., 7, Questions call Dave 8836.LaFortune. 11:30-12:30 M-F. Last day Please come back to Europe, I still Agent Orange- 
tor May grads to apply is March 14. Need ride to Detroit area Feb. 29. Will love you. Have any good Karmas lately? PJ STAPLETON ET AL...THANKS pay. Call41-4111. Morgan the Gardener Electric Koolaid FOR YOUR SOUTHERN HOSPITA­Tuesday Is ND-SMC Day at Royal LITY. WE HAD A GREAT TIMEValley Ski Resort! 2 for 1 lift tickets OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/year What are you doing Saturday night? Hey Pat S. TAKE CARE AND THANKS FOR3-10 p.m., also 2 for 1 7-10 p.m. round. Europe, S. America, Australia, How about escorting the Vietnamese Care for Rematch? EVERYTHING. YOURS IN DIXIE,M-Tu-Th. 2 chair lifts CLOSEST SKI Asia, etc. All fields, $500-$1,200 in South Bend to the hockey game! THE NOTRE DAME 14.AREA TO CAMPUS. Buchanan, Mich. monthly. Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Call Volunteer services 7308. Barb,  
Free info write 1-JC Box 52-14, Corona Happy 19th!! Laura Barry,Spring Break Daytona Trip-Bus Trans­Del Mar, Ca 92625. MUST HAVE DAYTON TIX. PLEASE: Love, Catching a few ZZZZZZZZ's? Youportation with Hoiel, $199. Drive CALL 41-5710. Ann sleep like a baby!!! n'Save fro $99. Drive 'n Save to Ft. NEED RIDE TO BUFFALO THIS The BabysitterLauderdale $109. on•y six rooms left. 6 WEEKEND. CALL MATT AT 1751 OR Someone you love or care about have a Stickle Bacas­days/5nights. For information call 1754. drinking problem? Join Al-like, join Somba So mba Basqu;mzen! Need ride for two to Detroit-AnnKen, 283-1387. others who are where you are. Arbor area Friday March 7. Please callf, J;;;;;~jd;t;-~dj;;;t;;-w-;;k;d. Thursdays 12:15-1:00 p.m. Student I'M SO CONFUSED!!!!!!!! Carol 3848.Applications ara now being taken for Please phone Mark 1388. Health Center 3rd floor. Ext. 8809.  
1980-81 WSI•D Business Manager. Juniors-Palmer,This Is a paid position. Call Ann at WANTED-Ride to St. Louis, Mo. Are you so ugly that when you were Do USC cheerleaders and the Calif­Cliff loves her;Ciiflloves her not;7425 between 3-5 p.m. for more March 7 weekend. Pat 7233. born the doctor slapped your mother ornia sun do somethin~ for you? if so, C ltff loves her...information. instead of you? Run for UMOC get your $50 deposit m for the 1980 QaisyI need a ride to Columb"£, Ohio FetL senior class trip. Due March 10-14.  
Typing in heme-close to ND. Best 29. Call John .3061. Roxann Brown, Devon.time to call-mornings or evenings Happy Birthday!!We will hold a Sex, drugs and rock 'n roll!! To all Come on ...please, Chapter 3!special benefit concert in your honor to those hardy partiers invited to Friday'safter 6:30p.m. 272-4895. For Sale Love,be followed by intense celebration. big event at 621 Napolean: Don't m1ss WallyWe love you, the best Leap Year's party of the The Unknown Kazoo Band century. Ryan'.s punch will knock you Droolers ot America, unite. Call BobbiLost & Found Lacrosse Equioment for Sale-SAX off your feel. at 41-4009 for further information 111Stick: Barney Head with mesh pocket.Found-Penr.il lef in Observer office. Jenny D., (You've got to love it. Bob!! Love,K-Defenseman's handle. STX regula­Thanks for the ride-you saved myIdentify. Students: Mary)tion ball $20.00 Pam a cleats $10.00 all sanity. b. Cast your vote for either Charles  
in very good co~edition. Call Mick 8379.Found-Sat. n.ght key ring with 13 Have tun in San Francisco Male or Theodore Combs In the MCOC Tom Yacovina,keys and -a '>owerful Pete Pocket contest!! [most conceited on campus]. The visit was great. (nice typewri·NEED BUCKS* will sell one-year oldScrewdriver. Call J;m 233-3662. ND-SMC: ter) We'll have to do it again someFisher stereo system-25 watts, cas· Yesterday was Bill Panny's 19th Mi amor secreto, time. I can be just as rude a secondsette deck, turntable, speakers. Excel· Que paso? Estoy muy decepcionadaLost-SMC :lass ring. Initials MHK. birthday. Don't bother to wish him a lime around. Looking forward tolent condition, great buy. Phone 1943.Reward. Call 41-4723. happy birthday, it's too late. solamente tres? Friday.mimi MaryFLASH-Photographic equipment forLost-glasses, brown & gold striped KULP KULP KULP KULP KULP P.S. Thanx to Joe and Kevin also.sale-fantastic bargains! -cameras, KULP KULP KULP KULP KULP Who's TOM CHAPIN? Come seecase. If found ~all Linda SMC 4674. lenses. Call 232-4129. · ________......:;._______ KULP-the Klan to join!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Harry's brother at St. Mary's on All those who have given up smokingMarch 8.Lost-olive drab green Army-style marijuana fir kebt are invited to dropSKIS: 190 em Yamaha $55. BOOTS:baseball cap lost between main circle Kidnappers of Cookie Monster: ---------------­acid. See your campus representativesize 12 Nordica $45. Call Jack 6720. I want photographic evidence that TOW NEED RIDE TO CHICAGOand Zahm must have. Greet value. 129 Zahm Hall. Ask tor Eu.Cookie is still alive before I meet you SOUTHSIDE. FEB. 29 CALL 41-4518.Steve 8907. Reward. Portable black and white 11 inch ransom demands. ---------------­~--------------­TPCAdmiral television. Excellent condition Need ride to Dayton this weekend forLost-a silver engraved Cross pen at BAS Thanks for the flower.Call 283-8619. game. John 8583.Mardi Gras backstage room. Call The Wandering Armenian Kevin 3670. Charles "Hollywood" Dyer for UMOC ---------------­The Forsaken Jamaican OKAY DON MURDAY Angela,You·ve had· your chance but you'vE:Personals Your friend in your field which youStatts and Uncle Keith would like to come up empty hande.: -CARROLL sow with lvoe and reap ·with thanksgiv­'.For Rent thank everyone who voted for us. HALL own up to it. It's mine and I ing. . . ·CHRIS BURNS (especially the 54 girls). ·want it back. I've been without for a Happy Birthday, dear Friend.HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!!!!YOU ARE AFor Rent-5-bedroom house at 713 whole month _ever since that pfeister Love,BIG 21 NOW. HOPE THE DAY GOBNotre Dame Ave.; available for 80-81 Need ride to Champaign-Urbana on JOE'S BLOW OUT. I can't act TeriGREAT!!!! LOVEschool year beginning Aug. 20, 1980. Feb. 29 or March 7. Mark 1764. responsible much longer. Give me PEGGYWas previously rented but is available pack my hat I!! Angela,again. Call Betsie 7752, Dana 7727 or Laundry Lady, Slowery Happy Birthday to a "new" friends.Lisa (alias Bolt, Smiley, Gingt Rog·Randee 8966 for more information. I promise not to tell on you-you ---------------­ers. Shirley Babshoff and Tai Babi'· don't tell about Miami. Deal? GET YOUR SENIOR BAR SEMI Pamonia)We rent dependable cars from $7:95 a FORMAL TICKETS DURING LUNCH With all of your talents, you shouldday and 7 cents a mile. Ugly Duckling To the unlucky thirteen: IN LAFORTUNE AND DURING OPEN Minnesota Club Partyhave no problem acing your HebrewRent-A-Car. 921 E. Jefferson Blvd., Being held hostage at Goose's and HOURS AT SENIOR BAR. TUES Saturday Night after the hockey game.Bible test! (you're a "legend") Good 26th-WED 5th.Mish., Ind. 255-2323. the post-raid party were excellent! Call Paul (8448) or Sue 4540) for moreluck. Repeat performance after court? ---------------­into. 

Tim NEED DAYTON TIX. CALL 41-5710.
Rooms. $40 Month. Near. Rides. Love ya,
----------------Huffy & friends ---------------­
233-1329. Hey lrlsl and Minnesota Hockey Charles "Hollywood" Dyer for UMOC Short Legs, Windchimes and lunch­
PS-Tom & Pete-ARe little boys

Fans!!Dril bef11re the games this Now I'm surrounded by RA's. Guess
CHUCKY IS YUCKY

Student chooses: $120 shares house or weekend a 'Bridget McGuires. Friday who play on swings allowed to drink I d better be good from this day
$90 for furnished room with bath. $75 beer at breakfast? ---------------­
3-8 pm. 3 drafts tor $1.00 and 2 J.S., J.Mc., A.M., JDF, P.M., D.K.-forward. -Rats! !(congrats!
deposit. Call 289-0103 nights or week­
' Kamikazes tor $1.00 Saturday 4-7 p.m. Nothing now-BUT YOU"LL GET Mary A.
ends. 
YOURS!!!!!

~_.~~--~~~-~d·~~*'s~~:~~~-~~-------$-.2~5~d-ra~ft-s.~~~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~----~~-:~------~~~~~~~77~~~~---~~~--~~ 
:• •'~"'""'dl • .., ._• , " ,I ~~l "'"" ._.. •' o • .... ., '._. • '0 ~' ~ ~ 1i.. I, .•'II ,,... , "·~' ,."' -::yb_"..."'>;, .• ": ~ "•"'"• ''\~,.•.• ...... ~ <, ~' "" ";•,~......~..!,.·',~~ 
• • •~""·•. ~ ~-••:·•.:-," ...~~-·......._••.-. :. ~ ..... -:.•...:'li. • ..."':"'..~ <i•.'\.'......~ ..,-,;:,."·,..•• ..., • ....... ".~ .• •"'•~· './'•• • :~ "'• tt ~ ,....., .-~~t-• ,. -...,_~ ~ ~ "":.~.~~-S!ti.-a ~" ':, •• .,..•ilt. \,.... • 


Thursday, February 28, 1980 -page 12 





SRorts 

Irish dump Demons in double OT 
Top-ranked DePaulfalls in another classic ACCthriller 
by Mark Perry Mark Aquirre. But DePaul's the second stanza. After Tracy ~ports Editor top scorer had hardly seen the Jackson tied the game with two ball in the second overtime. free throws with 1:08 left, 
It was like two grand masters ''The problem was Notre DePaul tried to stall for the last facing off for the chess cham­Dame's defense," noted Me­shot, but Grubbs threw the ball pionship of the world. yer. ''They were dropping off out of bounds looking for Aguir­
DePaul's Ray Meyer, the ca­and inviting us to shoot." re underneath the basket. gey old veteran with 38 years of Freshman center Terry Cum­This 15ave the Irish a chance to coaching experience who tries mings finally accepted the invi­win it m regulation, but Hanzlik to win with the basics, faced tation, firing up a jumper from traveled on a drive down the Notre Dame's Digger Phelps, the free throw line. The shot foul Iande. Bradshaw's heave 
bounced off the rim, and Notre
who had only been coaching the from the top of the key bounced 
game for a decade but has a Dame's Bill Hanzlik, playing off the rim. variety of complex moves. his final home game, grabbed In the first overtime, DePaul 
· And in the end, it was the the rebound with 1: S S to go. had a 70-68 lead with 36 younster that yelled "check­It was then that Digger deci­seconds left, and Hanzlik fouled 
mate!" ded to try a stall to work for the 
Mitchum. The injured Demon 
Orlando Woolridge's two good shot. But the big task was missed everything on the one­clutch free throws with 19 avoiding DePaul's super quick and-one attempt, and Branning seconds left in the second guard, Clyde Bradshaw. hit a jumper wtth sever seconds overtime clinched a 76-74 vic­''Bradshaw was cheating off left to force the second over­tory by the Fighting Irish over our post delay earlier," Phelps time. the undefeated and top-ranked noted, ''so we tried to bury '"ripucka and Aguirre had 28 Blue Demons in a classic con­their guards in the corner. We points apiece to tie for the frontation last night at the felt we could go one-on-one scoring honors, but AguirreACC. against Cummings, Aguirre, was named the game's Most Bur a couple of strategic and Teddy Grubbs or Jim Valuable Player in balloting moves by Di15ger Phelps helped Mitchem.'' that was concluded before regu­clmch the vtctory for the Irish So Woolridge, Tracy Jackson, lation time had expired. and continue the series of Notre and Kelly Tripucka handled the Cumming-s added 16 points Dame upsets over number one ball outside, while Rich Bran­for the Blue Demons and also teams. ning and Hanzlik remained in had a game-high 11 rebounds. For 45 minutes the two teams the corners. Finally Cummings Bradshaw had 14 points and had fought to a standstill, bumped Woolridge to send five steals. 70-70, and neither team seemed Notre Dame to the line for the For Notre Dame, Woolridge capable to hit the clutch basket critical one-and-one. The scored 16 points and led the that would end the game. "Tree" swished them both team in rebounding with eight, With the score ued at 74, through, and the Irish had the whtle Jackson and Branning 
DePaul had the ball and was lead with 18 seconds left. scored in double figures with 12 trying to work the ball into their DePaul called timeout for one and 11 points, respectively. sophomore scoring s.ensation, last chance at a tie, but again "We played our hearts out 
Notre Dame kept the Demons and came up two points short,'' from getting the shot they Meyer commented. "I have 
wanted. Senior center Jim Mit­been talking all season long as a chem,' playin~ with two broken winner, bur as a loser I can't fingers in h1s left hand, was hang my head. We've won a 
forced \o take a long shot from few like this, so we'll take the the top of the key that came up loss.

T ripucka heads listof heroes 
by Gary Grassey Tripucka, still outfitted in his build an offense around Tri­short. Bradshaw's desperation ''We lost our poise a little bit. 
Sports Wn"ter dripping wet uniform 40 min­pucka, rather finding more attempt op the l_ong rebound We made so many mistakes at utes after the game. "We openings in opposition defenses wefell off to the side, and the the end that cost us, but 
In a year of Irish ups and designed a couple offenses and an anythmg but bashful with a of young
number one team was defeated. played lot 

downs, the night of the biggest against their zone so that when confidence m his shots. fellas, and they've gone far
''It was a tribute to Notre up in weeks brought forth a we reversed the ball we had "When he's hot, he just goes beyond my expectation.''

Dame's defense that the wrongwhole slew of heroes. Rich two-on-one matchups. I got the to it,'' smiled Digger Phelps at ''1 told the kids all week thatman took the shot at the end,''Branning and Bill Hanzlik e~ch open shots because our offense the postgame interview. 

DePaul is a great team," saidMeyer noted. "We wanted Skip contributed key buckets down created enough openings." "We don't ever try to go to Phelps. ''They have very fewDillard or Teddy Grubbs fromthe stretch. Orlando Woolridge Since his return to action one guy," Tripucka said, "But the outside or Aguirre inside. flaws and they are a team that 

put together another in a string three weeks a~o from the back since my injury, I've just been capitalizes on every mistake.
They sank off Mitchum and heof consistent ferformances on injury that sidelined him for shooting my shots when I'm You can't say enough abouthad to take it. 

both ends o the floor and four games, the 6-6 forward has open, I've been hitting a good Bradshaw, Aguirre, and Cum­''They played a very smartcapped off Notre Dame's drama been scoring at a 2 I. 7 pace and perc en rage, and rebounding mings. They are probably theballgame.''
packed win over DePaul with 15rabbing 8.3 rebounds per out­too. That's what I'm there for! 
three best players we haveThe game lived up to thetwo game-winning free throws. mg --numbers that reflect not [continued on page 11] faced all year.
advance billing, as the twoAnd Mark Aguirre continued so much a conscious effort to teams played even for the "This game was so closehis assault on College Player of that if it had gone anotherentire game. The Irish had thethe Year honors with 28 of the overtime, DePaul could havelead at the half, 32-31, but had
toughest points he's ever 
won. This was just a greatto fight back when DePaulscored. 
scored the first eight points in college basketball game.''
But on this night for heroes, Kelly Tripucka stood tallest as he carried his Irish mates for fifty minutes with one of the 

Fencers face tough test
most memorable games of his career and gave Notre Dame crown after the Irish had cap­
by Paul Mullaney 
their shot at the upset. 
tured the title in each of theTripucka staked Notre Dame Assistant Sports Editor previous two years.

co an early lead that kept the ''This has grown into a greatcrowd in a frenzy from the They've been talking about it rivalry," says DeCicco, in hisopening seconds. His seven of for months. The Wayne State­19th year at the Irish helm. "Itten shooting in the first half was Notre Dame meet has become is undoubtedly our biggest testlaced with long. range jumpers perhaps the biggest rivalry in of the season. Both schoolsfrom sonar territory. DePaul's Intercollegiate fencing. And have had their share of recent2-3 and 1-2-2 zones were to no this Thursday's matchup will be no exception. success. We'll need a littleavail in the second half either as luck, and will definitely have tothe junior All-American moved Coach Mike DeCicco's Irish fence best

in close enough to draw six foul will carry a 17-0 record and a the we have this 
season. " shots and hit four more field winning streak of 122 straight Two gold medalists highlightgoals. dual matcb~:s into the encounter the foil competition. NotreDePaul coach Ray Meyer in Detroit. The Tartars of coach Dame's Andy Bonk, defendingtook time to congratulate Tri­Isrvan Danosi haven't lost in 11 NCAA foil champ, has lost onlypucka after the game and shook meets this season. In fact, they two of 33 bouts this seasonhis head in admiration saying, haven't lost since dropping a while Wayne's Ernie Simon, of''He made so many shots while 14-13 match to Notre Dame at Melbourne, Australia, is unde­there was a hand right in his the end of the 1979 campaign . 

feated in 15 bouts after missing face." Additi4lnally, Wayne State the beginning of the season.

"I just shoot them when I'm edged out Notre Dame to win open,'' explained an elated last l}'ear' s NCAA championship [continued on page 10] 








