...Rocky Horror-Page 5 
l 
l
I 
l 

VOL. XV, NO. 6 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1980
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Sen. Bayh discusses election -year issues 
Editor's Note: Q & A will become a commodities they won'tlet us weekly Observer news feature sell in their countries.Q: interviewing people of interest to President Carter's new economicplanNotre Dame-Saint Mary's students. increases thefederal deficit by about 
Last Friday, U.S. Sen. Birch eight to ten btl/ion dollars. Does this 
Bayh of Indianawas in South worry you at all? 
Bend to appear at a luncheon A: Yes, it worries me, but what ofretired United Auto worries nie even more is the Workers, where he wasinter­reason we got the deficit to viewed by News Editor Tom wh~re it is now, which is not Jackman. Inhis remarks. Bayh because of increased spending
called for a tax cut to lessen the but because of increased un­
effects of the recession. employment. And the only way 
Q: What's the difference between we're going to get a balanced yourtax cut proposal and the budget is to get people put back Republican proposal? to work. The latest figures show 
A: I would not have the kind of for each one percent of un­disproportionatedollar figures employment you had about for the upper income brackets. $25billion in lost revenue or 
Most of the people in upper increased expenses as a result of 
income brackets have anumber · unemployment compensation
of tax loopholes that they can and welfare payments. Ifwe had 
take advantage of in deducting the same kind of employment
interest and capital gains and other kinds of benefits, butthe (continued on page 3] people who really need the help are the people in thelower and middle income areas. Not only are they theones who need the help, but that's what's going to 
Government, strikers reach settlement 
helpthe economy. If you give GDANSK, Poland (AP)­
sands of workers at the Lenin chief government negotiator and agreed that political dis­Government negotiators and ship yard strike center here. Deputy Premier Mieczyslaw sidents arrested for allegedlyPolish strikers reached a final The tired but exuberant throng ] agielski, finished a crisis that encouraging the strikers would agreement, ending thelabor roared in approval, and then had dragged on for 18 days, be freed by today.crisis here and setting out began the cautious process of involving more than350,000 Sources in Warsaw said four sweeping political and econom­realizing their victory and. re­workers in Poland's industrial of the 29 dissidents who had ic reforms unprecedented in a storing the nation's reeling e­north, andhad spread to more been jailed during the strikes communist bloc nation. conomy. 
than 20 Polish cities. were released at 5 p.m.-10 "We will go back to work The agreement, signed by Jagielski bowed to a last minutes after th signing cere­
BirchBayh 
with energy,"said one of thou-strike leader Lech Walesa and minute demand by the workers mony in Gdansk. Theysaid the four, Miroslaw Chojecki, Jan ten dollars, or a hundred dol­Ajsner, Seweryn Blumsztajn lars,oftax reliefto a person with and Jan Cywinski, had been
Pope plans England visit
low income, they're going to charged with belonging to an spend that for things that they organization planning criminal really need in a relativelyshort LONDON (AP) -Paul II will tion from some militant Prot­incomplete, but a church acts, an offense punishable by 
period of time, and that goes become the first reigning pon­estant clergy. spokesman said they would not up to five years in jail. The through the economy, and in tiff to visit Britain in a trip Enmity between the Roman include a trip to Northern Ire­sources said they did not know buying the things they need tentatively planned for summer Catholic Church and the land, where 2,05 3 people have ifthe charges were still pending. they put other people to work 1982, more than four centuries Church of England lasted long died in 11 years of sectarian Jacek Kuron, leader of the producing those items. And after King Henry VIII's dispute after Henry's break with Rome violence between its half-mil­Committee for Social Self-De­that's the way we get the with the Vatican split of the in 15 34, when Pope Clement lion Catholics and one million fense, called KOR, was among economy back on its feet. English church from Rome. VII refused to grant the king a Protestants. the dissidents remaining in cus­
Q: You recently asked a Senate The Pope has accepted a in­divorce. In later years, many The Rev. Ia Paisley, the firely tody, the sources said. Appropriations Committeeto resume vitation from British Cardinal people from both sides were Northern IrishProtestant lead­The strike settlement also the price mechanisms for steel im­Basil Hume;the Roman Catho­burned at the stake. er, denounced the Pope's Brit­requires authorities to review 
ports. Is thatgoing to cause a re­lic information service said yes­The ill-feeling is not yet en­ish trip. "The blood of the all cases of political prisoners ctprocal effect in other countries? terday. The announcement al­tirely gone. within two weeks. 
A: That's fine, let them recip­ready has aroused angry reac-John Paul's travel plans were [Continued on page 4] In Moscow, the Soviet news rocate. All we're doingis saying agency, Tass, distributed an that you can't ship your steel angry statement that made no into ourmarket below the cost mention of the settlement and 
of production. We don't ship blamed the strikes on "anti­our steel into their market social elements." The article


Commissioners Boardconvenes
~elow the cost of production. was broadcast on Soviet tele­Same way with automobiles­vision hours after the agree­
of governmental renovations. The group is
there's no reason why they by Tim Vercelotti ment was signed. It did not 
looking through back issues of The Observer
shouldtake a $6,000 American speak of any possible Soviet­car and tax it to the place The Board of Commissioners held their first and Scholastic,examining the student govern­bloc intervention, but stressed whereit's $12,000 before you meeting of the year last night. The Board, which ments ofother schools, and talking to pastNotre Poland's importance to the bloc 
includes the Student Body President, Vice Dame Student Body Presidents. A report on the
can buy it in Japan. We don't as a member ofthe Warsaw Pact 
dothat with their automobiles, president, Student Union Director, and other committee's work will be submitted at the next military alliance. we ought to treat theirproducts representatives of the various branches of stud­meeting of the Board ofCommissioners, sched­Workers elsewhere in Po­the same way they treat ours. ent government, opened the meeting with a uled for September 14. land, most notably in the south­
Television setsare another ex­discussion of the upcoming budget hearings. Another subject of discussion was the prob­western city of Wroclaw, said ample. They won't even let us The hearings, which decide the student govern­lem ofovercrowded student housing. One Board they would honor the Gdansk sell colortelevision in Japan. ment monetary allocations for campus clubs and member pointed out that some animosity is settlement and resume work Now we've just got to stop groups, are scheduled for September 21 and 28. beginning to crop up between Flanner Hall upon its confirmation. On Sat­that,I don't want a trade war, Among the other items on the meeting's residents and their new neighbors, the students urday, strike leaders in the maj­
agenda was the proposed reorganization of the who were displaced by the fire in St. Edward's
but I'm not going to sit stilland or western port of Szczecin let our workers be put out of student government. Student Body President Hall. The Board decided to explore the pos work while foreign workersare Paul Riehle reported that a three man com­sibility of allocating some money to St. Ed's 
[continued on .oage 4]

competing with us and selling . mittee is currently researching the possibilities residents for hall activities. 


-~ ~--~-~ 
~onday,Sep~berl,l980-page2
News Brie/§ 
c:========~============================ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 

Ten hostages held aboard a Braniff Airways jetliner in Lima,Peru, returned here yesterday aboard the same plane which wasseized by Cuban refugees for 23 hours at Lima'sJorge ChavezAirport. The returning travelers,who were met at Los Angeles InternationalAirport by family members and friends, said theircaptors did not mistreat or. threaten them during the ordeal.The incident began Friday &rhen about 400 Cubans smashed throughglass doors at the Lima Airport and swarl?ed onto the runway. TheBr~niff jetliner, en route to Los Angeles, was taken over by 168 Cubans who demanded to be flown to the United States. 
A fire blamed on boys playing with matches burned out of control for a sixth day yesterday after consuming more than 21,000acres of brush and timber and causing an estimated $250,000 damage to homes on Mount SanJacinto above Palm Springs, Calif. Authorities would not predict when they might contain the blaze, which was being battled by more than 1,000 firefighters and which has led to 14 firefighters receiving minor injuries. "It's about 40 percent contained now, but we're not predicting full con­tainment,"said California Department of Forestry fire in­formation officer Fred Snow. "The containment is not concentrated on a particular side, which is sort of our problem-the fire really dependson what the wind does," Snow explained. On Saturday, the fire damaged or destroyed six winter homes in the Andreas Canyon onthe Eastern flank of the mountain. 
Don't tell Baron Arnaud de Rosnay it's im­possible to cross 2,200 miles of ocean standing on a surfboard, powered by the wind and sustaine~ only by date~, caviar and water. The 34-year-old French anstocrat doesn t think in terms of "can't."He says his planned 20-to-30-day trip from the Marquesas Islands in the South Pacific to Hawaii "will be a winning of a very hard fight, which was to decide to make theimpossible possible." Although he learned how to handle a wind surfboard only a little more than a year ago, the tall, muscular Frenchman has chalked up two long voyages since then. He "sailed" across 850 blistering miles of the Sahara Desert on a windsurf skate board in a 56-hour trip in March1979. Five months later he crossed the icy waters of the Bering Strait, between Alaska and Siberia, in eight hours."What you want to do is feel very humble and justacceptand use any element thatyou can take to go faster and faster and the farthest," de Rosnay said. 
China's exoeriment with 
modified forms ofcapitalism wiflexpand next year to include the first personal income taxin the communist nation's 31­year history, the officialChinese news agency announced yesterday. The Xinhua newsservice said China also will levy business taxes on morestate-owned enterprises and collect taxes from the expandingnumber of forei~ joint ventures and foreigners next year.Finance Minister Wang Bingqia announced the new tax policiesatSaturday'sopening session of the National People'sCongress, China's Parliament. 
The world oil surplus could last at least untillate1981 even ifSaudi Arabia were to reduce its oil output byone million barrels a day, the trade publication Petroleum Intelligence Weekly said yesterday. "The huge cushion ofsurplus stocks," with total Western world in­ventoriesexpected to reach a peak of 5.8 billion 42-gallon barrels byearly fall, ''could linger for another one or two years,"the newsletter said. "Oil inventories in some Europeannations have now reached the equivalent of 120 days' supplywhileJapan is at a record 110 days and rising, and the United States at about 75 days," it said.The newsletter attributed the surplus to high levels ofSaudi oil outputandan "unexpectedly sharp drop" in Western oil demand following a 132 percent jump in world oil prices since ~he beginningof 1979. 

Warm today and tonie:htwitha4o 
percent chance of rain andpossible scatter~ afternoon and evening thunderstorms.Highs today in the mid 80s. Los .tonight in the upper60s. Partly sunny and coooler tomorrow 
with highs in the upper 70s. 
,___The_QlJs.eryer_ Design Editor . ... Ann Monaghan Asst. Design Editor . . . . Margaret Kruse Kevin Korowicki Patty Hulley Monica Gugle Night Technician ... Rich Fischer Copy Editor ........ Kim Parent · Lynn Daley News Editor ...... Tom Jackman Editorial Layout .... Randee J en­nings Sports Layout .... Beth Huffman Typists ...... Marilyn Broderick Pam Parsons Myrtle Perkins Day Technician ... EileenMurphy ND Day Editor . .. Bob Bernoskie Ad Design .. ......... Anne Fink Woody Photographer...... .Joel Annable  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P. 0. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved.  



Inside Monday 

Silence is our enemy 
Last Thursday was a late night, or Friday was an early morning.Either way, there I was at 7 
a.m. heading into downtown South Bend to deliver the paste-ups for Friday's Observer to the printer.U.S. 31, as all ND and SMC students 
know, winds its way smack through the center
'f 1 d s th B d li . .
fb

0 e~utt u owntow~ ou ~n '. sp ttmg_m two JUSt after Memonal Hospttal m oppostte one~.way trecttons. ~ -------~ ­
d. . 
-

Half asleep while one of the other editors drove, I looked out the window on what appeared to be a beautiful morning,but after a full night at the paper I could hardly be blamed for not fully appreciting it. Yet, just before I could fall asleep, something did catch my half­closed eye. 
Tied to the trees in front of every main building down the highway was a yellow ribbon. I also recalled seeing them tied·to trees along Saint Mary's Avenue, but never really took note. But here they were-not in the hundreds ofcourse, more like a respectable 20 or 30, but enough to wake me up and ask, "What are these things?" "For the hostages, it started in Battle Creek Mich. and spread around," was th_e reply. 
Everyone has heard the song-"Tie a yellow ribbon 'round the old oak tree" released some seven years ago. Granted, it was about a man returing from prison wanting to know ifhis girl still wanted him, andconsidering the hostages committed no crime and yet are being held prisoner, there is some comparison in that respect. But what the yellow ribbon tied to a tree now means as a result of that song, is"We want you back." 
On the return trip from the printer, I was still pondering the yellow ribbons and what they meant, when we approached the viaduct c;rossing 31 just before Angela. Written on the columns in spray paint were the words,".F-­Iran." 
Ordinarily I hate grafi:tti; it's so destructive and often vulgar -which this message was, except that this comment, made as an answer to the hostage crisis, shows more than just juvenile delinquency. 
This person had to be very, very angry to write those words and by this anger, he also must have cared a great deal.His words are now a daily reminder to anyone who travels US 31 that Iran is causing us trouble and still has52 of our people hostage. 
Margie Brassil 
Th 't t'' t be at a standstill It ·s
e st ua uon seems o . 1 
now 303 days and all officials are saying it is too t' kl' h 't t' t e t on In ract the 
_ tc ts a st ua ton o comm n . 1; , --silence is so loud on this issue that it's scary. Stories in the papers are found buried near the back,if at all. 
One hostage has returned. In Chicago I read a quiet story on page five that said Richard Queen had been well treated by Iran and would be all right. 
Here it is folks-Campaign Year, filled with promises and speeches and plans to build a better America. The conventions were held and the rats for the Rat Race ofall rat races have been picked. 52 Americ.ans are still being held hostage and not one word has been said by anyone at either convention or in the campaign about getting them freed.Not one word! 
This should be a major issue. Reagan should be able to do wonders with it, saying, "See how Carter has messed up!"And Carter should be saying things like,"l'll have them home by Christmas!" Actually, I don't care what they 
say, I just wish they'd say something. 
Why isn't anything being done or said? Why did the rescue attempt fail? (Sorry, I can't buy sand in the engines.) Why did Carter even wait 
~ so long? Why is no one saying anything!? National security? Come on. Have we for­gotten all the classic leaks thatshould have been hushed in that hallowed name, but weren't? Label something national security and chances are greater that someone will find out about it. 
I wish I knew what was going on. But I don't. And no one else seems to know either. But you know what I'm really afraid of? The less we hear about it, the more apathetic we will become and our countrymen could remain hostage forever with nothing ever being done in the name of "national security." If they are not freed soon it soon it will be the fault of the American people for falling asleep.Like I almost did before I saw the yellow ribbons, and the angry message on the viaduct column to "F--Iran." 

The Observer 
Mon&y, September 1, 1980-page ~. 
Students, merchants profit 
Stepan Mall receives praise 

SAGA gave students a change ofpace by hosting an outdoor picnic last Friday. [photo by Joel Annahle]. 
... Bayh 

(continuedfrom page 1] 
the beginning of this year when we passed that balanced bud­get, we would have about a $25 billion surplus instead of a deficit, but when people are out of work, they're not paying 
taxes, they're drawing unem­ployment compensation and. welfare which increased expen­ses. So what we hope is that by spending that money in the tax cut, we get the economy turned right now, about 6.2 percent unemployment, that we had at around, we get people put back to work, so that really we have a better chance of balancing the budget than when they're outof work. 
Q: Are the Democrats unified now? Do you think that there was any split caused by the Carter-Kennedy rift that will carry over into the fall campaign, or is everything patched up and are the Kennedy people readyto go behind Carter? 
A:I don't know. My judgement is that there was a deep division between Kennedy and Carter supporters, that went beyond personalities, it went to pro­grams and substance.With this new economic plan, I think the President has accepted some of Sen. Kennedy's ideas. He hasn't gone as far as Sen. Kennedy wanted, but I think Sen. Kennedy has responded and is enthusiastically supporting President Carter now. To an­swer your other question, I think that some of that hard feeling is still there. How long itwilllast, I don't know. I think the thing that will come closest to healing the divisions within the Democratic party, more than anything else, is Ronald 
Reagan. When he comes out and tells what a glorious war Vietnam was,right away you have about all the Kennedy Democrats saying 'wait a min­ute, I'm not going ·to vote for somebody like that'. When he talks abouthow unemployment compensation is a welfare va­cation for loafers, you got a lot of other people saying 'wait a minute, I'm not going to vote for a fellow like that'. When he can't determine whether you have one, two or three China policies, then you're going to have people who are concerned about a lot of things, won­dering, 'Dowe want a man like that in the White House?' I think that is one thing that President Carter has going for him, and that the Democrats have going for us, to unify our party against a man who is representing the other party. I think there're going to be more and more Democrats who are dissatisfied or disenchanted with President Carter who will say, 'Well wait, I'm not going to throw my vote away on a third 

· party candidate, and I'm sure not going to vote for Ronald Reagan, and I'm not going to stay home.' I know I don't agree with some of the things that President Carter has done; I think this high interest rate/ tight money policy was abso­lutely asmme. That's Republican economics, that's the same thing that Nixon and Ford three times in eight years, and we got three recessions. So why wouldn't you get it if a Democrat uses it. It doesn't make any sense. There should 
[continued on page 6) 

VERY IMPORTANT MEETING OF LAST YEAR'S 
OBSERVER NEWS 


REPORTERs· TONIGHT 7pm 
OBSERVER OFFICE 
Stepan' Mall, the brainchild of SU Services Commissioner Mike Method, has been greeted with favorable reactions by lo­cal merchants, students and the Student Union. 
The Mall, which was held Thursday and Friday in Stepan, 
Tickets 
•

remam 
forCos~y 
Plenty of tickets still remain for Friday's Bill Cosby concert at the ACC. 
Main floor and lower arena seats ($8.50) are stillavailable, as are bleacher seats ($7.50). Tickets for the concertcan be purchased at the ACC or Stu­dent Union ticket office it LaFortune. · 

921 E· Jefferson Blvd. Mishawaka 255·2323 Hours 9·5 Sat. til noon 
has prompted enthusiasm from both businesses and students. Local realtors have already con­tacted Method and expressed their interest in the project. 
"The Mall is a convenient place for students to buy things for their rooms, and they don't have to go offcampus," Method commented. 
Though this yearis the Mall's first, Method hopes to com­mence a tradition. He believes "everyone wins" with the Mall: retailers make money; students benefit from convenience,and the Services Commission makes a profit.The profit is then fed back to students when SU allocates funds to deserving clubs and organizations on campus. 
Students expressed their en­thusiasm over the Mall.Com­ments ranged from "It's nice" to "I'm glad I can get shelving without the hassle of going off campus." 
One student, however, did comment that he thought prices were "steep" and said he wished the Mall sold used items. 
A spokesman for Interior Concepts commented that his firm plans to return next year "for sure." 
Are you interested in SALES WORK? 
The OBSERVER has an opening for the position of ADVERTISING SALES MANAGER 



You payyourself-we'll pay Jerry 
Bud the Can Man wants to makeyour old Aluminum cans help fight Muscular Dystrophy 
The Jerry Lewis Telethon is gone until next year, but unfortunately Muscular 
Dystrophy is not. 

You can help yourself and help Jerry's kids by bringing your discarded aluminum cans to Bud the Can Man 
l 
j 
j 
l 
j j J 
1 
l 
He'll payyou a profitable price per pound 
and he'll donate an addiHonall 0¢ per pound 
to Fight Muscular Dystrophy now thru Sept. 6 

Bremen 
lron&Metal 
3113 Gertrude 
287-3311
South Bend 


---~ ----~--------r·---~ 
The Observer Monday, September 1, 1980 -page 4 
Rajai appoints new cabinet in Iran 
,l 

by the Associated Press 
Iran's prime minister yester­day named a new Cabinet-the country's first since the take­over of the U. S.Embassy in Tehran almost 10 months ago. 
U. S. officials hope the appoint­ments will speed the release of the 52 American hostages. 
Several of those named by Mohammad Ali Rajai, the Iran­ian prime minister, were edu­cated in the United States and other Western nations. Many, including some who lived in the West, were said to have close ties to the hard-line Islamic Republican pa£ty that controls Parliament and were foes of the U.S.-backed Shah of Iran. 
Hossein Musavi Khameneie, nominated to become Iran's minister of foreign affairs, was described by the official Iranian news agency Pars as being a member of the central com­mittee of Islamic Republican Party and the editor of the party's newspaper. He was re­ported to have been arrested in 1973 by SAVAK, the shah's 
secret  police,for  activities  a­ 
gainst  the  then  all-powerful  
monarch.  

If you have free time between II and I everyday...,MAKE SOME MONEY!!! 
THE OBSERVER 

needs a lunchtime assistant to work in the advertising department.\ Duties will 
include classified sales and li~ht clerical work. Call MIKE HOLSINGER, 1715, for more details 
ATTENTION SENIORS 
The Pre-Law Society is sponsoring 
a very importante informational 
meeting on LSATs, Law School applications, personal statements and law schools. 
MANDATORY FOR SENIORS 
TONIGHT' SEPT 1 7pm 
Library Auditorium 
SENIOR TRIP 
REMINDER!!! 
·$365 will be due on Sept. 8,9 & 10, along with roompicks -More infonnalion will bemailed to you at the end ofthe week. Anyone interested in getting on the waiting list should bring a $50 deposit to the Student Activities office this week. 
An early reminder: you will need one ofthe 
following to he.allowed into the Bahamas ... voter's registration card, birth certificate (orcopy)OR apassport __ 
Anyone with questions call· Anne-1669 Donna4-l-5103or· .Mike-160fi Martha-4-1-5236. 
Another appointee, Seyyed Asadollah Lajevardi, named minister ofcommerce, was -re­ported by Pars to have been tortured in prison for his pol­itical activites against the late monarch. 
The news agency said Rajai announced the appointments in a letter to Hashemi Rafsan­jani, speaker of the Majlis, or Parliament.Parliament is ex­pected to act on thein this week. ­
The speaker had been quoted as saying the legislators would spend this week considering the Cabinet appointments, then begin the hostage debate. No new defense minister was named. 
Ayatollah Ruhollah Kho­memt, Iran's revolutionary leader, has ordered the Parli­ament to consider the 302-day­old hostage issue, but the de­bate has been postponed re­peatedly. Iran's president, AbolhassanBani Sadr, last week spoke out against spy trials for the hostages, but many mem­bers of parliament are thought to favor such trials. 
The last Iranian Cabinet was headed by Mehdi Bazargan, who re-signed as prime minister shortly after the storming ofthe 
U. S.Embassy in Tehran and the hostage-taking last Nov. 4. American officials have main­tained that the absence of a government structure in Iran has blocked negotiations for the hostages' release. 
According to Pars, the other new appointees include: 
MahmudWandi, minisster of post and telegraph and tele­phone, who received a doctor­ate in electronics from the Uni­versityof California. He is said to have "cooperated" with the IRP butis described as a polit­ical independent. 
Mohammad Norbakhsh,min­ister ofeconomics and financial affairs, who is said to have been active in Islamic student asso­ciations while studying in the U. 
S. He is now said to be form­ulating a plan to relieve the country's high unemployment rate. 

[continuedfrom page 1] 
reached an agreementwith the government, and some enter­prises were already operating again. 
There were unconfirme-d re­ports that the Gdansk and Szczecin agreements would ap­ply to the other strikers. 
The strike, begun over a meat-price hike announced]uly 1, ended with promises oflabor unions independent of gov­ernment control, the right to strike for worker demands, and reforms affecting nearly ev­ery facet of life in a communist country. 
"We will see to it that the new union always be independent for the sake ofPoland," Walesa 
...Strikers 

said as he and Jagielski signed the 21-point agreement."And now I declare the strike over." 
In addition to independent unions, the settlement requires authorities to review all cases of political prisoners within two weeks,freeing them during the review. 
"I am glad to say we ended our dispute without the use of force but by the way of dis­cussion. We showed that we can understand one another." 
Jagielski drew cheers when he said: "I have done for you what you have asked for. We were talking like Poles should talk to each other, like a Pole talks to a Pole." 
"There are no winners and there are no losers,"he said. 
, , , Pope 

[continuedfrom page 1] welcomed the trip and added: tish Reformed Church called "It's a sad comment that North-the Pope's visit to Britain, "The martyrs cries out against this ern Ireland has been isolated greatest betrayal since Judas visit," he said. from this visit." Iscariot." He said it was "a vile One of the province's leading Militant Scottish Protestant abomination" and that thous­Catholic politicians Gerry Fitt, Pastor Jack 'Glass of the Scot-ands of Protestants would take .._.._.._.-________ to the streets if the pontiff set 


The anouncement indicated the purpose of the trip is to 
bring the Catholic Church clos­er to other Christian churches in Britain."The Pope stressed the great importance he would attach to the ecumenical aspect 

;of the proposed pastoral visit," 1 the announcement said. 
There are about 4.5 million Roman Catholics in Britain, where the NationalChurches are the Church of Scotland and the Church of England, whose temporal head is Queen Eliza­beth II. 
"Naturally if the queen is in England at the time of the visit, she will receive the Pope," a Buckingham palace spokesman 

, said. "The Queen is paying a state vist toltaly in October and will visit the Popeatthe Vatican October 17," headed. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~·-~··~-·-·~••• jfoot in Scotland. 

• 

Editorials 
Monday, September 1, 1980-page 5 

P.O. BoxQ  A Farewell to U.S. Arms? Art Buchwald  
to the same Dr. Frakenfurter. What is even more unique to'RockyHorror' an the situation is the dialogue  G>-Ed IX>rm living  
exchange betwe.en the charact­ers on the screen and theAbuseofMorals characters in the audience. Besides yelling unprintable hecklings, as is traditional with Dear Editor, the movie audience, the goals of Recently the Student Union the raunchy flick were soon of Notre Dame sponsored the verbalized with "Down with movie, "The Rocky Horror society," and"Up with deca­Picture Show," for the "enter-dence!" In short, "Rocky Hor­tainment" of the student body. ror" was an advocation of sex The renowned movie depicted a on a pure pleasure-oriented and "sexual revolution" against the perverse plateau (if it feels stuffed shirt policies of yester-good, do it), and gives visions of year when high morals and what Sodom and Gomorrah ascetic purity were in fashion. must have been like. The storyline parodies the My question is why is a Frankensteincreation story and student organization ofa major uses this popular forum, coup-Catholic university using such a led with rock 'n roll, to advocate vehicle for mere profit? Why its cause. The movie,however, does a school, which advocates is nothing short ofpornograph-high morals and sexual ethics, ic. Opening with the star, show a movie which calls for the Dr.Frankenfurter, dressed in "breakdown of society" and a make-up and drag and singing lifestyle based on hedonistic to his male creation,"In 7 Days I pleasures? Why is a school Can Make You a Man," the which supposedly creates an movie continues on this line environment to produce ·edu­proclaiming, through graphic cated students ofhealthy body example, transvestitism, trans-and mind, playing host to such sexualism,homosexualty, les­smut? bianism, oral sex, cannibalism, It would be wise for the pre-marital and extra-marital Student Union and the Univer­sex, and various other topics no sity to reevaluate its goals and less controversial. Any charact-standards, or just break out the  Long Overdueat ND Dear Etfitor. Ater M years ot feeble at­tempts to implement co-educa­tion at Notre Dame, it:s about time that THE OBSERVER has finally decided to endorse the establishment of a co-ed dorm. In deference to Pam Deg­nan's recentcom•mentary, "Not yet time for co-ed dorms", setting up one of the soon-to­be-built dorms for co-ed living would be a very real and con­structive change for Notre Dame.Co-ed living, that is, men and women living in the same building, either in every other . room or every other floor, not as Ms. Degnan describes, cohab­itation, is a perfect living ar­rangement for Notre Dame students to meet and interact with members of the opposite sex on a normal daily basis. I emphasize the "normal" aspect of co-ed living because that's exactly what this campus lacks: a normalliying alternative.  •WASHINGTON ­The Republicans have pledged $100 billion for new arms to "catch up with the Russians." This will presumably include new missiles, the B-1 bomber, super submarines, more surface naval ships, and beefed up tactical forces that can be flown to any part of the world. The country is all for it. The only thing the GOP hasn't explained is where they are going to get the personnel to man the new hardware. The truth of the matter is the Air Force, Navy and Army cannot find the crews for the equipment they now have. The mood of the country is to spend money on anything the military says it needs, as long as American sons and daughters are not required to put on a uniform and use it. What's the answer? The solution is to draft all the illegal aliens who have come across the border and swear them into the armed forces. While military pay may be a pittance to an American, it is a fortune to an illegal South American, Mexican or Haitian refugee. Rather than pick tomatoes or grapes the illegals would be trained to use our new military equipment, and be taught all the latest methods of warfare. Instead of being hounded by immigration officials, they would be given PX privileges, USO dances and food stamps for their families. We would have Cuban pilots, Chinese tank drivers and Vietnamese misslemen. The officer corps would be made up of foreign generals, colonels, majors admirals and captains who have been overthrown in their respective countries by communist takeovers as well as those who have failed in right-wing junta revolutions in their respective countries. By the time the $100 billion allocated by the Republican party would be accounted for, not one American would have to spend a day in the military to defend his country. It is estimated that there are over 10 million illegal aliens in the United States right now. All we need is 5 million for a  


ers of respectable nature are golden calf for the sake of a painted out to be morons and buck. 
Brian Crouth

soon succumb to the cause, i.e., 
304 Vincent Hall

hero and heroine lose virginity 
DOONESBURY 
by Garry B. Trudeau 
VH-HUH. 5HE'5 
YW 54/IJ IT ()Nt;
5()(JN[J5 L/1<& 
BOWL fJF FLAT
A PR£TTY 
PUNCI•.4NIJ IT
IMPORJA'.'T 
f¥l/{f'/ CC! .,? 8G Ha..uJ 
Rf3Ai:;,,~/'(
I 

The administration's Vic­torian attitudes have sought to avoid the issue of co-ed dorms ever since economic necessity forced them to admit women to Notre Dame. Parietals, kegs, etc. have been their smoke­screen to keep the students occupied and to keep the issue buried.For those of you out there who are tired of the "strained" social atmosphere here at Notre Dame, a co-ed dorm is just what you need and deserve. Let the administration know how you feel-they'll just keep their heads in the sand until you pull them out. 
Kurt Bottjer Dept. of Biolsgy 

respectable defense capability. The other 5 million could be 
signed up for the reserve, and be permitted to work in the 
fields until an emergency required them to be called up. 
While the illegal aliens would only be required to serve for four years, those who refused to re-enlist would immediately be deported to their country oforigin for being in the United States without a visa. 
The beauty of this plan is that we could fulfill all our military commitments without fear of political fallout because we are endangering the lives of American boys. It would also resolve the debate as to whetherAmerican women should be required to serve in the armed forces. 
But best ofall, it would alleviate the bitterness that some Americans feel toward various boat people arriving in the United States Instead of wanting to send them back, we would welcome those refugees with open arms as fresh mercenaries, ready to fight to keep America free. 
If the United States wants to be number 1 in the world again, as the Republicans intend us to be, we are going to need all the illegal foreigners we can get. 
Art Buchwald's syndicated column appears regularly in The • Observer.' 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Obsertler is an independent nev.:spaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Samt Mary's Colle~e. It does not necessanly reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible: Edit~ri~ls represent the opinion .of a majority of the Editorial Board. _Com~entartes, optmons, and letters are th~ vtews of their authors. Column SJ?ace ts_ ~~:vatlable to all members of-the c~mmuntty, and the free expression ofvarymg opmtons on campus, through letters,_~s encouraged. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief ............ Paul Mullaney SMC News Editor ........... Mary Leavitt Managing Editor .............. Mark Rust Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman Features Editor .............. Kate Farrell ·
Editonals Editor ........... Mike Onufrak 
Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe 
Senior Copy Editor ......... Lynne Daley 
Photo Editor .................. ) ohn Macor
News Editor ........ _......... Pam Degnan News Editor ................ Tom ) ackman 
Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges News Editor ............... ) ohn McGrath Advertising Manager .. Mike Holsinger SMC Executive Editor .. Margie Brassil Production Manager .... Ann Monaghan 
~~---------­
: 
Ih~a~~·==============================·======== 
T0 daY:=-======.. 
======M=on=da=y=,Sep=tem=be=r=1,=19=s=o-=pa=ge:6 
Campus 
4:30p.m.-colloquium: recent works of classical groups by chinese mathe­maticians, sponsored by mathematics dept.,room 226 ccmb. 
6,8,10p.m.-animal house, k. of c. hall, ad­mission $1.(members will be admitted free.) 
?p.m.-observer re­porters meeting, observer office, la fortune. 
Security arrests Huddle patron 
A man described as being a "little off the wall", but"harm­less" was arrested last night by two Notre Dame security uards for "blocking traffic" in the Huddle. 
According to two Huddle employees, the suspect, who is in his early 30s, was standing next to the door of the LaFor­tune entrance to the Huddle when two ND security officers approached the man and began questioning him. After several minutes, the suspect, who showed no signs of resistance, was pushed to the wall, frisked, handcuffed and subsequently arrested. 
"I can't believe that they would handcuff the poor guy", said one Huddle employee, "he was just standing there minding his own business." 
ND security refused to com­ment on the incident until a later date. 

• • • Bayh 
[continuedfrom page 3]• 

be no place for 20 percent interest in this country, and yet that's exactly what we had. 
The inability to take on the oil companies, and to put them in their place and to stop this tremendous inflation, with the periodic increases. in energy (prices), that's somethingI wish the President had been more aggressive on. But those are two 
reas, in other areas I agree with him very much. 
Q: What sort of impact will john Anderson have? Wtll be have an impact? 
A: Well I think he'll have an 
Peanuts® 
I HOPE WOODSTOCK IS GETTING A NICE TAN AT TI-lE BEACI-I 

tJ-23 

impact, how big itwill be I don't know. I ],ave great respect for John Anderson, and I think he should be permitted on the ballot. I think the Democratic National Chairman trying to keep him offthe ballot does not look good and it is not good. I think that anybody who wants to run for president, or senator, or anything else, ought to have the chance to do so. Now having said that, I go back to what I said a moment ago. I thinkthe closer we get to the elections, the more gaffes Ronald Reagan pulls and the more dangerous he appears as a man who would be sitting there with his hand on the button, so to speak,I think the more Democrats who might be in­clined to vote for John Anderson are going to perceive their vote as making it possible to elect Ronald Reagan, and 
I KEEP THINKIN6 THERE WAS SOMETI-IING I WAS GOING TO TELL HIM ABOUT.. 


43 Dame Myra 22 Made a 44 Frank choice 45 American 25 Flow regu· 
author lator 52 Elk's 26 "-,and a 
relative peculiar 53 Tied grace" 54 White· 27 Throng 
tailed 28 1103, to birds Livy 55 Morning 29 Mel or 
song Woody 56 -Ranger 30 McAuliffe's 57 Head or reply 
dead 31 Neighbor 58 "-of of Rom. 
robins ln ..•" 32 U~c.ompro· 59 For fear m1s1ng 60 Leading man 35 He dealt 
with the 
DOWN devil 1 Stimulate 36 Casey's 2 Swearword kin 3 Ceremony 38 Gift 4 "Min and 39 Carbine 
actress 42 Piano 5 -brittle 44 Auguries 6 Violinist 45 Bovary 
Mischa 46 Horse color 7 Jannings 47 Memo 8 Owns 48 Bacchanal 9 Porters cry 

10 -of(re· 49 "And having !)lacing) -,moves 11 Pindar's on" 
output 50 Karenina 12 Rived 51 Riverto 13 Beaux-the North 21 Indians Sea
-

Time Again for An Annual Affair-Nutshell 
The Ooonesbury Syndrome, football Saturdays, college stress, and the draft are just a taste of what's in this year's Nutshell. It's a magazine that tells about a lot of things to do with college living. And it's an economical choice to add to your readina list-it's free! Pick uo one todav. 
sponsored bvND Student Union ...--Pickupindinin 
hall----. 
they won't want to do hat. That's what happened the last time we had a major third party candidacy like the Wallace candidacy, where his strength went down and down and down as people began re­turning to the fold recognizing that Wallace wasn't going to win,all they could do was elect Richard Nixon, and that's ex­actly what they did do. 
Q: Wbataboutyourcampaign? What sort of tack will you take? 
A: Dan Quayle talks about a new brand of leadershjp, but that new brand of leadership is one that's for giving the biggest tax breaks to the wealthy, not to the lower and middle income people, giving the oil com­panies free rein to run prices at whatever they want. That kind of thinking he feels very sin­cerely, very genuinely, but I think he's wrong, and my re­cord, on the other hand, is there for people to see. I'm on the other side of that question, and we'll just have to let (the voters) decide. I don't think Dan Quayle can come across like Santa Claus because he isn't Santa Claus. He's had the vote for four years, and I think the people have a right to see how he votes because I assume that's how he'll vote as a senator. 
Q: Where is the recession right now, in your opinion? 
A: I don't know. I was one who thought it was comingwhile everybody else thought we weren't in it yet. Unfortunate­ly,! guess maybe I was right and some other folks were wrong but it's not the kind ofthing you want to brag about.Now I see that this latest report of eco­nomic indicators shows that they're strengthening, maybe things are looking up. 
CharlesSchulz 


The DailyCrossword 

© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
A  Auditions ~7:OOp.m.  
SHOT  
IN·  Washington Hall .•  
THE  Sept. 1_, 2  
-·  --3.  
DARK  STUDENT_  

ALL ARE 
PLAYERS 
WELCOME 

Notre Dame Student Union 

ACROSS 1 "A-to the wise .•." 5 Fledgling's sound 9 Flora and fauna 14 Rock musical 
15 Mariners' patron saint 
16 VIllage with a witch 
17 Major ending 18 Author Kingsley 
19 Warn 
20 Novel by45A 23 Shock 24 Sword 25 Kind of 

parking 27 A president 31 Poisons 32 Tubes 33 Actor 
Gulager 34 Resembling: 
suff. 35 Succeeded 36 Sediment 37 56, to 
Calpumia 38 Chums, out 
West 39 Sowsheds 40 With42A, 
a critic of45A 42 See40A 


------------~----------­
The Observer -Sports Monday, September 1, 1980 page 7
p 
Football 

FINAL EXHIBITION STANDINGS AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
Eut 

W L,T PCT. PF PA Mlcrnl 3 1 o .750 71 31 
N.Y. Jets 2 2 o .500 74 69 Baltimore 2 2 o .500 72 87 Buffalo 1 3 n .250:47 72 NewEnglano 1 3 0 .250104115 
Centr11 Pittsburgh 3 1 0 . 750 7 4 44 Houston 2 2 0 .500 71 58 Cleveland 13 0.25052 123 Cincinnati 1 3 0 .250 51 55 
w..t KansasCity 31 0.750107 51 Seattle 3 1 0 . 750 61 64 Oakland 2 2 0.500 86 119 1 Denver 2 2 0 .50 0 7 4 41 San Diego 1 3 1 .300 65 ' 87 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE 

Elat Philadelphia 1 0 .750 98 631 Dallas 
1 0 .750 66 74 Washington 1 0 .750 65 34 St. Louis 2 0 .500 65 64 N.Y. Giants 3 0 1.250 36 88 
Central Minnesota 3 1 0 .75 0 92 67 Detroit 3 1 0 .750 86 61 Tampa Bay 3 1 0 .750 66148 
1 .250 . 6&. 84

Chicago 0
3

Green Bay 0 4 1 100'1786 
vVeat San Francisco 3 1 0 . 7 50 88 '59 Los Angeles 2 ,2 0 .500 107 84 Atlanta 1 13 0 .250 
84J83 New Orleans 1 3 0 .250 51 93 Thursday's G1m1 Houston 24, Buffalo 7 Frldl¥'1 Games Tampa Bay 11, Washington 6 Atlanta 51, Baltimore 35 Seattle 30, New England 23 Miami 20, New Orleans 0 Slturday'a Games St. Louis 21, Chicago 13 Denver 38, Green Bay 0 Detroit 15, Cincinnati 10 New York Jets 32, New York Giants 7 San Francisco 31, Kansas City 21 Minnesota 38, Cleveland 16 Oakland 24, Philadelphia 23 Pittsburgh 31, Dallas 10 Los An ales 34, San Dleao 17 
[continued from page 8] 
Toman went on to say that 
Knafelc's major setback right 
now is that he is still awaiting a 
doctor's 'OK io resume con­
tact. He has been throwing 
lightly sine Wednesday., 
As1de from football, Knafelc, 
who is an Economics major, 
says he enjoys playing basket­
ball, and looks forward to the 
annual Bookstore Basketball 
tournament once football sea­
son is over. And in the even­
ings after practice, what does 
he do to relax? ''There really 
isn't a whole lot to do," he 
says with a chuckle, "besides 
study and watch 1V." 
Lke many of his Irish team­
mates, Greg expressed a sence 
of remorse over the announce 
resignation of Devine, but is 
anxious to get the upcoming 
season underway. 
''As a team, we are starting 
to look ood. The desire is 


Ba~eball 
NATIONAL LEAGUE EAST W L PCT. 0 B 
Pittsburgh 70 61 .534 Philadelphia 68 60 .531 
Montreal 69 61 .531 New York 59 71 .454 St. Louis 
57 71 .445 Chicago 51 77 .398 
WEST Houston 7 4 56 .569 Los Angeles 7 3 .56 2
57
Cincinnati 71 .546
59
San Francisco 66 .508
64
Atlanta 6 5 1 . 50 0
6 5 
San Diego 55 .420
76
YeaterdiY'I G1m1a Cincinnati 5, Pittsburgh 4 Chicago 8, Houston 7 Atlanta 6, St. louis 2 
1/2 
112 101/2 111/2 17112 
1 3 8 
~ 
191 1 
San Francisco 11-9, New York 4-4 
Los Angeles 2-7, Montreal 0-2 
San Diego 10, Philadelphia 3 
Today'a Games 
Houston (K. Forsch 10-11 and Pladson 0-3) at Pittsburgh (Robinson 5-7 and Rhoden 4-3), 2. 
Cincinnati (Price 4-2) at St. Louis (Kaat5-6). Atlanta (Matula 8-12) at Chicago tLamp10-9). Philadelphia (Carlton 20-7) at San Francisco (Whitson 9-9). New York (Burris 7-8) at los Angeles (Welch 10-9), (n). Montreal (Sanderson 12-8) as Sa Diego (Wise 5-5), (n). 
AMERICAN LEAGUE EAST 

Minnesota 57 76 .427! 29 California 51 77 . 3 9 8 321 I 2 Seattle 47 82 .364 · 37 
Yeaterd1y'a G1m1a Chicago 10-8, Cleveland 8-7 Milwaukee 11, Detroit 6 Toronto 7, Minnesota 1 Baltimore 5, California 0 Seattle 1 , New York 0 Boston 5, Oakland 1 Kansas City 4, Texas 3 
Tod1y'a G1mea Oakland (langford 14-10) at New York (Underwood 10-9). Seattle (Beattie 4-11) at Baltimore (D. · Martinez 3-3), (n). California (Frost 4-6) at Boston (Renko9-5). (n). Chicago (Burns 11-12) at Detroit (Mor­ris 13-11), (n) Toronto (Mclaughlin 4-7) at Texas (Medlch 10-!1), (n). Milwaukee (cCiure 1-6) at Kansas City(Gale 13-7), (n). Cleveland (Barker 16-8) at Minnesota (Williams 2-1), (n). 
Tennis 

U.S. OPEN TENNIS TOURNAMENT 
Featured Matches Roscoe Tanner vs. Brian Teacher Bjorn Borg, Swede~ vs. Yannlck Noah, 
France Hana Mandllkova, Czechoslovakia, vs. Martina Navratllova Tracy Austin vs. Vlglnla Ruzlcl, Rom­ania Johan Kriek, South Africa, vs. Buster Mottram, Britain Guillermo VIlas, Argentina, vs. WojlekFlbak, Poland Chris Evert Lloyd vs. Joanne Russell Pam Shriver vs. Dianne Fromholtz, 
PC T. 0 B : Australia
w L I
New York 
. 605 
-I,
78 51Baltimore 
.594. 1112
76 52
Boston .556 61/2'Cleveland 67 61 .523 101/2. 
Soccer
67 61
Detroit .52 3 101 I 2 \69 64Mllwaukke . 519 • 11 :
54 75
Toronto 1\.419 24 i NASL PLAYOFFS 

. FIRST ROUND Kansas City 85 46 . 649 I -I I AMERICAN CONFERENCE

65
Oakland 66 .496 20 Saturday's ResultsTexas 64 66 .492 201/2 

ChlcaQo 3, San ·oleQO 2
55
Chicago 72 .433 28 

• • .Knafelc 
there, and we're looking for­ward to getting started. I'm sure we can do better than 11th (pre-season pick of _the Asso­ciated Press), but our goal is the National Championship. VVe have no other one than that." 
Knafelc completed his only pass attempt of 1979 on a 17-yard scoring strike agains! 

Purdue as a fake field goaJ attempt gave the Irish six points. "It's imponant for us to win that first one," he notes, "and I think we will beat Purdue. " 
For the sake of Greg Knaf­elc's teammates, all of their fans hope that the victim of circumstance with the dyna­mite stats is a man of his word. 
San Diego 2, Chicag-o 1 so (san Diego
I wins best-of-two series, 2-1) 
I 
I Tampa Bay 4, New England 0 (TampaBay wins best-of-two series, 2-o) 1 NATIONAL CONFERENCE Saturday's Results Seattle 3, Vancouver 1 (Seattle wins best-of-two series, 2-o) Los Angeles 2, Washington 1 SO 1 Los Angeles 2, washington 0 (Lo~ Angeles wins best of two series, 2-1) Yesterday's ResultsI New York I, Tulsa 1 [New York wlna beat-of-two aerlls, Z-GI 
XIn the eventthat the teams sollt thR two games, a 3Q-mlnute mini-game followed! the second game Immediately to deter­
mine who advanced to the conference semifinals. 
-
1 

'Transact ion~ 
'CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Reactivated 
Idrlan Downing and Dave Skaggs, catch­ers, and Dave Frost, pitcher. Recalled Ralph Botting, Jim Dorsey, Bob Ferris
. 

and Dave Schuler, pitchers, John Harris, first baseman, and Gil Kubskl, outfielder, from Salt Lake City of the Pacific Coast 
League. ­
MIAMI DOLPHINS-Singed John Test­erman, running back. Waived Burton Lawless, offensive guard. 
TAMPA BAY BUCANEERS-Walved Nell 0' Donoghue, kicker, Brett Davis, Running back, Dennis Helm, defensive lineman, and Derrick Goddard, defensive back. 
WASHINGTON REDSKINS-Piaced 1John Riggins, fullback, on their "left ~tamp-retired" list. 
~ILWAUKEE BREWERS-Recalled John Flinn and Ovid laPolng, pitcher., and ned Yost, catcher from Vancouver of 
1 the Pacific Coast League. 
TEXAS RANGERS-Place Bump Wills, Infielder, on the 15-day disabled list. Recalled MIke Richardt, Infielder, from Charleston of the International League.
NEW YORK MET<:-Recalled Juan Ber­
enjluer and Mike Scott, pitchers, Mookle Wilson, outfielder, and Wally Backman, Infielder, from Tidewater of the Interna­tional League. Purchased the contracts of Huble Brooks, Infielder-outfielder. and Luis Rosado, catcher. from Tidewater. 
Sports Briefs. _ _____, 
Freshmen managers to meet 
There will be an organizational meeting for all freshmen who are interested in joining the Student Managers' Organization this evening at 8 p.m. in the ACC auditorium. If you are unable to attend or want more information call the student managers' office at 6482 between 2 and 6 p.m 
:Kellysets interhalldates 
Tom Kelly, director of non-varsity spons, has announced that Sept. 3 is the deadline for entries for the following intramural spons: interhall football, men & women; interhall tennis-singles, men & women, mixed doubles; grad-fac tennis men & women & mixed doubles; 16-inch softball and co-ree softball. · 
Gymnastic clubgathers 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's gymnastic club will begin practice today at 4:00p.m. If you cannot attend the practice to be held on the third floor of the ''Rock'', please call Brian McLaughlin at 1689. New members are welcome. 
Off-campus team to practice 
The off-campus football team will gather for a meeting and the year's first practice today at 4:30 p.m. Thos interested in playing should meet at the Green Field in practice clothes. 
-

-The N D Student Union 
and 

Midwest Events presents 
~································································ 
BILL COSBY 
in the round at the NO ACC 
FRIDAY SEPT 5 
···•···•···•··•·························•·············•·•···•···• 
PLENTY OF GOOD SEATS STILL AVAILABLE 
Tickets:$7.50 and $8.50 
fte contatlnt who dlJJliJI the most creative banner welcoming BILL backto CllllJU 
·will receive agreat seats to the Bill Gosby show, DmRIBfor two at the Boar's Bead and will mee' Bill ~sby in Jersonll 
!he second and third most creative contestants will receive lfr•tickets each to tbe Bill Cosby showt 
JUDGI:IG WILL II WID ct !RUBS SliP!-_·:8ct~4~" 

. 
~ 

-~-------~------­
r 
Monday, September 1, 1980-page 8 
In last year 

Quarterback Knafelc hangs-in 
EDITOR'S NOTE: The fol­Here in 1980, Knafelc was not very good because of my shoulder, although it is feeling 
lowing is the first in a series of expected to battle Koegel and 
five on the Notre Dame quar­Mike Courey for the starting better. Everybody here wants terbacks. The order the feat­job7 and was doing just that to play, and I just have to keep working harder once I'm able
ures appear in The Observer in until he sustained a shoulder 
no way reflects the status of injury in practice a few weeks to." 
Ron Toman, coach of quar­
the players in any way. ago. Now, the six foot-five inch terbacks and receivers fornative of Green Bay, Wis., is
by Mark Hannuksela Notre Dame has praise for
facing a fourth season of little,

Sports Writer Knafelc, and the attitude he
ifany, activity: has maintained during his"Sure, I'd like to play," says

How does one account for years as an Irish football
Knafelc, whose career comple­

the fact that the quarterback player.
tion percentage is 67 percent

with highest career completion "Greg really
(two of three). "I wouldn't be has a good 
percentage probable will not be attitude," says Toman, who is
here if I didn't want to. But J 

starting Saturday when Notre in his fifth year as an assistant
have no regrets about coming

Dame opens its season? to Dan Devine. "That's some­
to Notte Dame. I've enjoyed

Perhaps more than any other .thing that is pretty tough to
my thtee years here, and there 

reason, it's because Greg Kna­maintain when you're not play­
isn't really anywhere else I'd

felc has been a victim of ing much, but Greg has don
rather be."

circumstance. extremely well in that area.''
"Obviously, my chances of
In the fall of 1977, Knafelc 

starting Saturday's game are [continued on page 7]entered the University of Notre Dame as one of the top quarterback prospects in the country. At the time, he was 
Non -football weekends : 
listed fourth oon the Irish 
depth charts behind veterans 
Rusty Lisch and Joe Montana 

Help or hurt the team ?
and fellow freshman Tim Koe­gel. Three games into the 

win in the sweltering Indiana
season, Montana replaced 

Lisch as by Beth Huffman heat and Wolverines' victory
the starter, and the Sports Editor led to noting but the Irish

"comeback Kid" went on to 

matching the worst Notre
lead his teammates to the 

This football season the Dame start in history (0-2). 
Naitonal Championship. Mont­

The three free Saturday
ana played the entire 1978 Notre Dame team will have three "free" Saturdays. The dates fall before games with
season and Lisch then retume 

question bounced around the Michigan, Michigan State and
to lead the Irish offense in 

Skywriters' press conference Southern Cal. The USC game1979. 
last Thursday was whether or was originally scheduled to not the open dates will help or coincide with the basketball hinder the Irish. team's trip to UCLA for econo­"I personally have never mical reasons, however, the
Major league scores, sutnmaries 
liked open dates in the past,'' football game was moved so Devine said. "But with the that ABC could televise the tough schedule we have this clash. With the television mon­year it could be to our advant­ey in the picture the University NEW YORK (AP)-Larry BOSTON (AP)-Rookie PITTSBURGH (AP)-George 
age.'' could do nothing sensible be­Milbourne's infield grounder Glenn Hoffman drilled a two­Foster's home run triggereed a Last year's 7-4 Irish had no sides accept the network'sscored Reggie Walton from run homer yesterday as the four-nin sixth-inning rally off free dates. But, a look back to suggestion.
third with the game's only run Boston Red Sox extended their Ben Blyleven and lifted the the 9-3 1978 season finds a free With the tough Irish sche­in the ninth inning to give the winning streak to seven games 
date between the disheartening dule this year the week-endswith a 5-l victory over the
Seattle Mariners a 1-0 victory Cincinnati Reds to a 5-4 victory 3-0 opening loss to Missouri off could drag out the season. 
over the New York Yankees Oakland A's. Rookie southpaw 
over the Pittsburgh Pirates and the 28-14 defeat at the "I think it is good for aJohn Tudor, 6-8, needed eight­
y~sterday. Walton opened the Sunday, extending the Pirates' 
hands of Mich!gan. The near young team," John Scully, aninth with an opposite-field th-inning relief from bullpen ~sing streak to seven games. two weeks between the Tiger's senior captain from Hunting·double to right off reliever Ron ace Bob Stanley, who earned 
Guidry, 13-10. Guidry had en­his 13th save, and 12th since 
terd the game in the ninth July 29. Mike Norris, 18-8, was replacing Luis Tiant, who had the loser. scattered five hits over the first 
eight innings. ST. LOUIS (AP)-Chris Chambliss snapped a 2-2 tie with a RBI double in the sicth SAN FRANOSCO (AP)­inning and doubled home an Terry Whitfield's Bloop single insurance run druing a three­to left in the sixth inning run rally in the eighth, leading scored Larry Herndon and the Atlanta Braves to a 6-2 cracked a 4-4 tie as the San triumph yesterday over the St. 
Francisco Giants defeated the Louis Cardinals. New York Mets 9-4 in the second game of a sweep of DE1ROIT (AP)-Cecil yesterday's doubleheader. Cooper,Don Money, Dick Davi~ 
Whitfield also belted a two-run and Gorman Thomas each belt­single as a pinch hitter to ed home runs to power the provide the key blow in the Milwaukee Brewers to an 11-6 
r -Giant's five-run sixth-inning victory over the Detroit Tigers rally that powered an 11-4 yesterday. Mike Caldwell and 
victory in the first game. Reggie Cleveland, 9-8, com­bined on an eight-hitter as the Brewers won their second 
CLEVELAND (AP)-Wayne straight game after a seven­Nordhagen rapped four hits game losing streak. and Ron Pruitt drove in two KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP)­runs and scored another to Frank White singled to drive in spark the Chicago White Sox to clint Hurdle with on in the an 8-7 victory and a sweep of ninth inning and lift the Kan­their Sunday doubleheader sas City Royals to a 4-3 victory with the Cleveland Indians. In over the Texas Rangers yester· the first game, Chet Lemon hit day. The Royals' George Brett an eighth-inning, three-run was held hitless in three at homer to highlight a five-run bats with a pair of walks as his 
1980 Irish will have three open 

rally and boost the White Sox major-league leading batting Sophomore receiv~ T_ony .H.unter could fr!uvide some Saturdays to use watching op­to a 10-8 triumph. average slipped to .403. exciting moments wtth hts brillzant catches this year. 
ponents on television, and waiting, for the next week. 











