
VOL. ifV N0.47 ;m indqx~ndem student newspa~r serving norre dame and saint mary's FFE.t\Y JCTOBER ~ 1,1980 
Trick or Treat 
Halloween began early at the costume contest in the St. Mary's dining hall yester­day.A creative tn'o [upper lejt] won first prize. [photo by Jacki Wasnz] 
In Abscam investigation 

Grand Jury indicts N] senator 
NEW YORK (AP) Senator Harrison A.Williams Jr. was indicted yesterday by a federal grand iury on charges he accepted a financial interest in a titanium mining operation and pronised to influence mil­itary contracts during the FBI's Abscam undercover investig­ation. 
The four term New ] ersey Democrat was the ftrst U.S. senator and the seventh mem­ber of Congress indicted in the Abscam investigation of official corruption. He is only the second U.S. senator in recent history to be indicted while in office. 
"I am innocent, " the 60 year old senator said at a news conference in a senate office building in Washington shortly 
after the indictment was announced. "I did nothing wrong.'' 
Williams was charged with acce{>ting an interest in the titamum operation during a meeting with undercover agents at Kennnody Inter­national Airport in August 1979.1 In return, the indictment alleged, the senator agreed. to use his influence in secunng military contracts for the mining venture. 
'' A suggestion was made which was improper," Wil­liams said. '' It was im­mediately rejected. And that was the end of that." 
Williams, whose hands trem­bled during the news con­ference, answered no ques­tions. He accused the govern­memo£ trying him "by news leaks." 
The 22-year liberal Senate veteran, who is chairman ofthe Labor and Human Resources Committee, was named along with three other men in a nine count bribery-conspiracy in­dictment 
The other named were: Alexander Feinberg, a Cherry Hill, New ] ersey attorney and close Williams associate; Geor­ge Katz, a New ] ersey and Florida businessman and for­mer Democratic fundraiser in New]ersey; and Angelo Erric­hetti, a state senator and mayor of Camden. 
Errichetti was convicted in. August with 1~ep. Michael Myers,D/Pa., in the ftrst Abs­cam trial 
Henry A. Williams III, a former newspaper publisher not related to the senator, was 
named as an unindicted co-con­s}>irator. From the investigations out­
set,  Williams  has  maintaned  
his  innocence.  
- ---------­ -­ 

---~--.­

---------------·-------· ----·-----~--­
..­

Candidates scrap for Eastern votes 
Devise explodes in ;·Peking; 
damages railway station 
PEKING (AP)-An explosion that killed nine people and injured 81 in Peking's central railway station was caused by a device brought in by an unknown person, the Xinhua news agency said yesterday. 
The official news agency gave no details about the charge or any hint of a motive. China's top policeman, Public Security Minister Zhao Cangbi, was one of the senior officials who rushed to the scene of the Wednesday blast, it said. 
Observers could recall no major cases of-urban terrorism being made public since the chaos of the 1966/76 cultural revoltion. A bomb exploded at the gate of the Soviet Embassy about five years ago, killing one person, in a case that never was explained. 
If the railway station explosion were the work of a terrorist; observers said, it lacked the kind of target that would indicate the motive. 
Xinhua said the blast occurred on the station's second floor near the top ofan escalator. The area is a bottleneck with people turning in different directions to shop, wait or· head for various platforms. 
The railway station was damaged only slightly and trains operated normally, the news agency said. While police cordoned offa wide area in front of the station after the explosion, passengers with tickets continued to come and go through side doors. 
The Xinhua report came 27 hours after the explosion. Earlier, a foreign ministry spokesmansaid nine people were killed, dozens were wounded, and the case was under investigation. 
The explosion was not reported in Peking's newspapers Thursday. 
Xinhua said one man was killed on the spot, five men and three women died later in hospitals and two of the injured were in critical condition. 
Travelers who passed through the station reported gouges in the floor and pieces of wood and masonry strewn about. 
Early this year, Hu Qiaomu, president of China's Academy of Sciences, wrote in a Chinese journalists' magazine that some young people hated the dictatorship of the proletariat-rule by the working class-so much that they would resort to violence. 
But Chinese press reports on youth gangs have been confined to cases of robbery, and gangfights, and recent reports have said a crackdown late last year improved the situation. 
There was nothing immediately to link the explosion with simmering political events in China. 
The major event is the upcoming trial of the "Gang of Four" radicals and six members ofthe "LinBiao clique" on charges oftrying to overthrow the government The latest official word was that the trial likely would start late this month or early next month. 
Newspapers have warned of the unstabilizing influence left by the Gang of Four, led by Jiang Qing, widow ofChairman Mao Tse-tung, but have said that almost all Chinese hated them. 
Lin, once Mao's chosen successor, reportedly died in a 1971 plane crash while trying to flee after a plot against Mao failed. 
By Mark S. Smith Associated Press Writer 
President Carter and Ronald Reagan, heading for the Election Day finish line, battled Thursday for the big bloc ofelectoral votes in the industrial states of the East. 
Reagan wound up a brief Southern campaign swing with airport rallies in Texarkana, Ark., and New Orleans, hoping to win the votes ofwhat he called "millions of Democrats who are just as dissatisfied with the way things are going as we are." 
Homing in on economic is­sues, which Reagan's pollsters tell him represent Carter's Achilles' heel, Reagan called the president's domestic programs a "comedy of errors." 
"He reminds me of someone who can name 50 parts of an automobile, but he can't drive it or fix it," Reagan told the crowd in Texarkana. 
With the election five ·days away, campaign crowds for the two major candidates were grow­ing. 
Carter spoke at a lunchtime rally in New York's midtown garment district, a traditional Democratic stronghold. Two city blocks were filled with cheering partisans, many of them union members, as the president rode n a motorcade between Manhattan skyscrapers adorned with red, white and blue balloons. 
In what is expected to be his last personal pitch for New York's 41 electoral votes, Carter recalled his support of federal loan guarantees for New York and told the milling crowd,­"We'll help revitalize New York together." 

Independent John B. Ander­son son attended a rally in Brooklyn and appeared at St. John's University. 
In a news conference at St. Francis College in Brooklyn, Anderson said he's afraid Carter would provide offensive missiles and other weapons to Iran in exchange for the 52 American hostages held there. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-----------~--------------------------~ 
--~ -~--------~---------------~------~--~~---­
--~--~------~ 


l\T~~S~[;)~,.,=~~·~~~~S~======~====================F=n=·d=ay='=O=ct=o=be=r=3=1,=1=9=8o==-p=a=g=e~2 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Inside Friday 
President Carter has won the endorse­
ment ment of the Chicago Sun-Times, which says it supports the 


The Political M~querade
president's bid for re-election "with reservations, as we did four 

years ago." 
In an editorial published in today's editions, the newspaper 
said: "Carter's approaches to international crises and national 
security challenges are more realistic and therefore safer than 
those proposed by (Ronald) Reagan. And we believe Carter's 
economic prescriptions would stimulate the economy and 
encourage productivity with less inflation than Reagan's." 
The newspaper criticized Carter for what it described as his lack of a clear and consistent vision of America's problems, failure to establish closer working relations with Congress and inability to stir enthusiasm for his programs. 
But the newspaper praised Carter for taking some tough steps to control inflation, his approach to the energy crisis, the Egyptian-Israeli peace accord, the Panama Canal treaties, diplomatic relations with China and the Third World and his record of minority appointments, especially to positions in the judiciary. 
Th~ Sun-Times called Reagan's plans to cut income taxes "highly inflationary," his energy program "downright fright­ening," and his views on foreign policy "narrow." The newspaper said Reagan's plans to scrap the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty II with the Soviet Union were irresponsible and that Reagan was openly hostile to conservation. 
The newspaper praised independent John Anderson for having an intelligent platform" but said he has failed tq become a serious contender for the presidency. • _ 
/The Chicago Tribune endorsed Reagan in editions last Sunday, saying that despite his "weaknesses," he would be better for the country than Carter. ~ AP 
Revived Islamic and non-aligned peace 
missions converged on this war capital yesterday on the 39th 
day of the Persian Gulf war and Iran and Iraq repor~ed 
skirmishes all along their 300-mile battle front. Heavy ftghtmg 
reportedly continued near the besieged port and refinery cities 
of Khorramshahr and Abadan in southwestern Iran, where 
Iranian troops sought to halt Iraqi infantry and armored 
columns. Iraq, which claims control ofKhorramshahr, said its 
forces were mopping up Iranian resistance on the 
Khorramshahr-Abadan highway, and on eastern approaches to 
Abadan. In Amman, Jordan, Iraqi Foreign Minister Saadoun 
Hammadi warned the United Sttes anew against helping Iran's 
war effort as part of a plan to free the captives held since last 
Nov. 4. Hammadi attended an Arab League conference in the 
Jordanian capital.-AP 
A Belgrade film studio and the Pale~ti_ne 
Liberation Organization have signed a contract for the JOtnt 
production of a feature-length film and television serie.s­
reportedly the first feature ever made by the PLO. The ftlm, 
entitled "Death in Flames," will portray two Palistinians who 
joined the communist-led Yugoslav partisans fighting Nazi 
occupying troops during World War II, the Belgrade news­
paper Vecernje N ovosti said Thursday. The two Palestinians on 
whom the feature will be based were killed in the war, the paper 
said. Yugoslav and Palestinian filmmakers will work on the film 
which is planned for screening at the non-aligned countries 
summit in Baghdad in 1982, the paper said.~ AP 
..,.,.,;:>­

Justice Department inv~stigators, 
declaring that President Carter has been remarkabl~ un­cooperative," are considering efforts forts to force htm to testify under der oath about administration handling of t?e Billy Carter affair, informed sources said yesterday. In a st~ll­secret report delivered to members of Congress, the m­vestigators who conducted an internal probe o.f. the Carter administration's handling of the case were cntlcal of the president and his attorney general, Benjamin Civiletti. The White House said they had not seen the report. -AP 
Enzymes _missing during t~e biosy~t~esis of 

gangliosides, a famtly ofcompounds found m the bram s nerve endings may cause serveral brain diseases, says a University of Notre Dame scientist whose research may also eventually provide a means offighting brain tumors. Dr. Sub hash C. Basu, associate professor of Chemistry, is continuing his research under a $130,000 grant from the National Institutes ofHealth. He is investigating the process by which certain compounds are produced in normal brains and also the production of glycolipids, which may indicate the cause of brain tumors. ­
The Observer ' 
Sunnv and cool today with highs in the low )Os. Clear and co1d tonight, lows in the low 30s. Partly sunny tomorrow with the highs in the mid 50s. 


r-The_Ohs.erY_er_ 
Design Edt/or. ........... Margaret Kruse 
Design Assistants ... Mary 's,d,r&r' Dumm 
Steve "Otter" O"Brien Day/Night Technicians .... Kathy Crossett News Editor .. ............. Lynne Daley Copy Edttor . ........ Mary Fran Callahan Features Layo11t. _.... Molly "all that jazz" 
Woulfe Sports Copy Editor.. ..... Michael Ortman Classified Layo111 .......... Steve O'Brien S11pplement Layo111 _.. . . . . Beth Huffman 

G11est Appearances. .. Johnny "7-9 tonight" Max, Mr. Bookreport, Ms. Cookie Cooker, and Kitch?! 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam ana vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. SubStrlptlons may be purchased for $20 per year($10 per semester) by writing Tile Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved. 




·' G»
..,~"' 15% Discount ~ to all N.D.-S.M.C. 
JEWELERS 
Students 
SINCE 1917


FOX'S 
DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 

University Park Mall and Town· and Country­Mishawaka 
Since tricks and treats are two items one normally associates with both Halloween and politics, it is appropriate we examine matters political on this mystical day. But let's not t~lk national politics: that is one masquerade for whtch I'll no longer answer my door. Today we shall examine student politics, a subject most consider us~less and mundane. 
Mark 

Rust 
Managing Editor 

But read on for just a second: this is more than to men and women who run thr solution-oriented just a rag on our hopelessly juvenile arrangement corporations of America. How can these people, called in loco parentis. This is a genuine, verifiable, with a straight face, actually propose that a student hearty thanks to the Board of Trustees for a senate be created for the purpose of forwarding wonderful lesson in institutional backrubbing and legislation to the very organization the senate's organizational farsightedness. formulation seeks to eliminate? 
You may perhaps have noticed in our Tuesday And in order to achieve this educational goal, issue a front page article headlined "Trustees Nix the Board in its wisdom has devised a strategem Student Senate." This was true in effect. For the that encompasses compromise, another layer of trustees rejected the student senate proposed by beureacracy, and the appearance of progress Student Body President Paul Riehle and enthu-through bulk. These are valuable real world siastically supported by a referendum of the illustrations. students, a group who norm!llly is labeled Their solution to the problems that exist in politically apathetic. But more on that later. Student Government is a highly imaginative 
The senate, though proposed for a variety of approach, the kind of thinking that has made reasons, had one clear goal in mind: to purge the America great. The idea· is this: form a student student government. The current CLC not only senate, keep the CLC, have the Student Senate does not speak for all branches; it simply does not debate proposals, and if they pass send them on to speak. the CLC to be debated and voted on. Brilliant. 
Why doesn't it speak? It fails to achieve the Jane Cahill Pfieffer, until recently a ch;ef attendance required executive with NBC, for a quorem. And who suggested that one is consistently absent? does not simply eli-The faculty and ad-rninate an organiza­ministrative represen-tion that hasn't work­titives who are sup-ed, but rather seek to posed to be engaging improve the one in in "dialogue" with the existence. I'd like to students, who are sup-see her try to explain posed to vote on the that logic to Fred very issues that they Silverman or NBC also have the power to board members. Or accept or reject. Sound perhaps she has be-preposterous? That's fore, which would ex-because it is. plain why she is to 
If the truth be told, longer with the com-Dean ofStudentJames pany. Roemer and Fr. John What would NBC VanWolvlear, vice f.~· do if they had a hope-president for Student lessly ineffective, Affairs, both regularly organization? They attend the meetings. They vote on issues which, would waste no time in .correcting the problm. according to the council's definition, they will It's much the same strategy Riehle used when he review later and either accept or reject on their started looking for solutions to a student 
own. governing problem which has existed since the Now how have the Board of Trustees helped CLC's inception. out? That's a fairly simple matter. Always in-But it won't be that easy, not now. And for that terested in education, the Board has decided to we can thank the Board of Trustees. They have te;ch the Student Government a few lessons in provided Mr. Riehle with a lesson in how the art of realpolitik. The Board's goal is to teach the compromise can result in the ridiculous. They students that government is an illusion, an image have provided him with a governmental setup maintained for the benefit ofthe electorate, while whose bulk and indirectness can be matched only 
real decisions are made by the unelected folks with by the federal beauracracy. And they have taught real power. him that it is far more important to give the N•ow it hardly needs to be pointed why this appearance ofprogress than it is to actually progress . 
solution scales the peaks ofabsurdity, partic~arly We thank them for these treats. 



The Observer Friday, October 31, 1980.-page 3 


English Department shows Shakespeare classics on film 
by Mary Fra" Cal/aha" Smior Staff Reporer 
The English Department is sponsoring the showing of two Shakespearean film classics ­Hamlet and Othello-starting this Sunday. Laurence Olivier stars in the title roles of each film and also directed the productions. 
"It's interesting to see Olivier over the years as he is younger, doing Hamlet and then older, doing Othello," James Robin­son, professor of English who teaches a course on Shakespeare, commented. 
The 1948 Hamlet production, filmed in black and white, features Jean Simmons in the role of Opehlia. The Othello production, an actual stage production filmed in color, features Maggie Smith as Desdemona. 
No parking? Two cyclists ig­nore the regulation near the St. Mary's library. [photo by jacki Wasntl 
Snite gallery 
to open 
soon 
Workmen are putting the finish­
ing touches on Notre Dame's 
::'_.
Snite Museum of Art in pre­paration for its November 9 (1 to ',. 
:;.::
5 p.m.) opening. The building, valued at $3.7 million, houses most of the University's 12,000­piece collection. The collection, which has doubled in size since 
1973, enables visitors to trace the development ofwestern art. The opening exhibit contains works by masters such as Chagall, Picasso, Renoir, Rodin, van Gogh, Remington and Russell. (Parking for the open house is available free in the stadium lot across from the museum.) 
Right to life 



sponsors ]og-A-Thon 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Right to Life group will sponsor the third annual Jog-A-Thon in the fieldhouse area of the Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter from 1:30 to 5 p.m. Sunday (Nov. 2). The event is open to all friends ofthe organization and proceeds will be used to fight abortion. 
Sponsors are asked to pledge a cash gift for every lap that competitors complete. Partici­pants may sign up in the Tom Dooley Room of LaFortune Student Center, and by calling 115 7 or 8127. 


CHEVY CHASE 
RODNEY DANGERFIELD TED KNIGHT 


Caddy­
mslulck 
SHOWS: 2:00-4:00­
6:00-8:00-10;6~w ~ 

in Ontario's Stratford Festival productions. She also has re­ceived recognition for acting in films. 
Shakespearean critic Roger Shattuck (in The Riverstde Shakes­peare) called the acting in Olivier's production of Hamlet "excellent" and added that "the language is delivered faultlessly." 
Robinson said Shakespeare buffs a"d people who are un­familiar with the author will both find the films valuable. "They (students) seem to enjoy the films each time we present them. It's a good way to encourage 
campus-wide  education  of  
Shakespeare,"  Robinson  com­ 
mnted.  

Hamlet will be shown Sunday, Nov. 2 at 6:30 and 9:15 p.m. Othello will be shown the fol­lowing Sunday, Nov. 9 at 6:30 and 9:30 p.m. The Enginerring Auditorium, on those two even­ings, will temporarily become the Globe Theater. Admission is $1. 
The·Bestin Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 

for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. Closed Sundays & Holidays 
:; '  
GEORGE BURNS  /.:  
·:  

SUNDAY MASSES 
' I 
AT SACRED HEART CHURCH 

5:15p.m. saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C. S.C. CC!II)PUS 9:00 a.m. Sunday Rev. Austin Fleming m•n~Stry10:30 a.m Sunday Jlev. Richard McBrien 
112:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. John Attgerald, C. S.C. 
7:15 Vespers Rev. Richard McBrien 


. ....... -.... 

The Observer F:riday, October 31, 1980 -page 4 
--------~--------------------------------------------~ 


'Jam' features Bluegrass bands
J"'ANNVAL 
ND-SJIC: RIGHT TO LIFE 
New 'York and  beginning  to  center.  
play off-Broadway. In 1969 he  Because there will only be 500  
was introduced to Janice Joplin  folding  chairs,  spectators  
for whom he and his wife wrote  should bring blankets and pil­ 
the song"Half Moon", which  lows.  Although  there  is  no  
Joplin  immortalized.  Since  restriction on beverages, glass  
then, he's joined various bands  bottles are prohibited.  
and written for performers-one  
time for Orleans. With them he  
recorded "Dance With Me " which hit the top ten in the  Iranians  
summer of '74.  
More recently, he's played on almost all of Bonnie Raitt's  boycott 
LP's including the production  
ofTakin' my Time. He also has recorded with Little Feat and  Parliment  
Jackson Browne. Hot off the press is his latest with John  [AP] Boycotting deputies for­ 
Sebastian.  Hall  is  a  studio  ced postponement of the long  
regular with Carly Simon.  awaited  open  debate  on  the  
Also alumni of ND  are  Rich  U.S.  hostages in the Iranian  
Prezioso  and  Kevin  Quigley.  Parliament yesterday, creating  
Last  spring,  they  left  South  new doubts and uncertainties  
Bend to settle in the Denver  on  the  fate  of the  captives.  
area.  Another  session  was  set  for  
Prezioso worked  as  a  street  Sunday.  
musician in the Bay area ofSan  President  Carter,  asked  by  
Francisco. Shortly, Quigley and  reporters in New York whether  
professional bassist Claude  the hostages would be home by  
Arthur join him. We're excited  election day  Nov.  4·,said:  "I  
to be back at ND.  The Nazz  have no way of knowing. The  
crowds were a lot of fun and  American  people  understand  
we'll haP.PY  to  see  some  old  what the situation is , It's an  
friends this weekend,'' Quigley  unpredictable thing." Speaker  
commented  of the Majlis,  or  Parliament,  
Two other groups, Heartsfield  Hashemi Rafsanjani, said the  
and  Radio  Flyers  are  also  United States  was  supportine  
expected to bring good music  
to those assembled in Stepan  [continued on page 6)  
---­ 
•  

Gentlemen: 
The Franciscan Friars in Mishawaka invite you to spend a weekend (Nov. 21-23) with them to learn more about their way of living the tradition ofSt. F rands. 
For your reservation contact Friar Richard or Friar William 

St. Anthony Novitiate 1be Franciscans 1316 W. Dragon Trail want young men to Mishawaka, IN 46544 1M this challenging (219) 255-2442 tradftion. 
CELEBRATION/RIVER CITY 
Proudly Presents 


In Concert! 

Sunday, November 30 • 8:00 p.m. Morris Civic Auditorium •south Bend 
Tickets: $9.00/$8.00; all seats reserved ­on sale this Saturday at 10:00 a.m. at River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North. Limit 10 tickets per person. 
(Tickets not available at Morris Civic Box Office!) 

JOG-A-TRON 
SUNDAY, NOV. Z 1:3o-s p.pn. ACC INDOOR TRACK 
ANYONB CAN RUN 
•rulfor 
SPONSOR A RIINNBR 
FOR INFO, CALL: TDI 1UZ or BILL 81:17 


11fJD 
Halloween Day 
Z2il. 
Sale 
G 
JUST FOR THE RECORD Buy 3 -Get 1 Free Get your 4th single. LP or tape selection for free 
Friday. Oct. 31. 1980 
10:00 a.m.-10:00 p.m. 
JUST FOR THE RECORD 100 CENTER, MISHAWAKA ($ off coupons not good on sale items) 

U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North in Roseland 

by Diane Mazurek 
Five talented bluegrass bands will appear tomorrow night in the Country Rock Jam, sponsored by Student Union. 
Vassar Clements, veteran of the Grand Ole Opry who calls Nashville home, is bound to be one ?f the highlights of the evemng. 
Vasser coaxes from his 400 year old Italian fiddle some of the most authentic Country Swing Notre Dame is likely to hear. While on tour, Clements collected an impressive accum­ulation of rave reviews. 
The quality of performers Clements has played with fun­her indicates thts musician's talent. The Allman Brothers, Charlie Daniels, Jimmy Buffet, The Marshall Tucker Band Linda Ronstadt are only a few of those with whom Clements has recorded. 
Jam performer John. · Hall 
came to Notre Dame at the age of 16 on a .Physics scholarship after skippmg his senior year of high school. One year later, Hall returned to the East and strummed his guitar aruond Washington D.C. ,eventually forming a small band. 


Another year later, he was in 



nounces 
$10.50 $5.70 $5.30 $5.30 $5.30 $5.10 

IN STOCK SPECIAL.S: 
Springsteen -The River (2 Record Set) 
-Drama Costello -Taking Liberties Jackson -Beat Crazy 
Forberf -Little Stevie Orbit Tnllrinn Heads -Remain in Light . 
+ everyday low order prices $8.98 list for $5.99 $7.98 list for $5.45 
-Mon-Fri .12:15-4:00 
L----'------------------------------­


-2nd Roor Lafortune-TICket Office Services Commissioner 


The Observer Friday, <;>ctober 31, 1980 ·page 5 


Reagan advisor Allen withdraw-s 
PITSTOP BAR-B-Q 
901 s. Michigan 234-6999


from presidential campaign staff 
Specializing in Bar-B-Q Ribs, Tips 
·-~------------------------·
I Special -Bar-B-Q Sandwich 1 1 $1.25 with coupon 1I (Regular $1.80) I 
..-------·-------------------. 
OPEN: Mon.-Wed. 4-2 Thurs. 11-2 Fri. . 11:30-4 Sat. 4-4 

· pre-election movie 

KING'S ROW 

STARRING RONALD REAGAN 
MONDAY.,. NOV 3 7,9 & llpm engineering auditorium 
sponsered by G.S.U. 

By Donolil M. Rogbberb campaign plane, press s~cretary 
AP Political Writer Lyn Nofziger refused to rule ou~ 
the possibility Allen would re-
WASHINGTON (AP)-turn if Reagan is elected Richard V. Allen, long regarded president. as Ronald Reagan's choice for "Anyone who is elected presi­White House national security dent has a right to have anyone adviser, stepped aside yesterday he wants," said Nofziger. Pressed from the Reagan campaign staff whether Allen still was in the as a result of conflict of interest running for national security allegations dating to his service adviser in a Reagan White in the Nixon administration. House, Nozfiger said, 
Edwin Meese, Reagan cam-"I'm not willin to go beyond paign chief of staff, issued a ·Nov. 4, until we get tO Nov. 4." 
statement saying Allen has "withdrawn for the remaining days of the campaign to remove this matter as a pos~ible issue in the campaign." 
Meese also said "it is clear that any allegation or implication of improper conduct is untrue. Mr. Allen continues to have the full confidence of Ronald Reaga.~ and the campaign organization. , 
Left unclear was whether Allen would be restored to his position of influence with Reagan if .the Republican nominee for presi­dent defeats President Carter in Tuesday's election. 
As he arrived in New Orleans, Reagan said that Allen withdrew "so in the last few days, he will not become an issue." Reagan's 
Until his abrupt withdrawal from the campaign, Allen was Reagan's principal foreign policy and defense adviser and was regarded as the likely successor to Zbigniew Brzezisnki in a Reagan White House. 
Allen has been the subject in recent months of several news­paper ~nd ~1 ~l?azine .articles about ~ts act~Vttl:s dunng. and afte: hts servtce m the Ntxon Whtte House. 
The latest appeared Tuesday on the front page of the Wall Streetjournal It alleged that Allen used his White House links to "obtain lucrative consulting con­tracts for himself and his friends." 
Allen's first response was: "That's B.S. It's not so." 
Journal managing editor Larry O'Donnell said the paper stood by the article which he said was "carefully researched." O'Don­nell said Allen was given "ample opportunity to comment in the story." 
Allen, 44, now is a Washington consultant specializing in inter­national economic matters. 
One of his clients is Nissan Motor Co. Ltd., the maker of Datsun automobiles. According to the Journal, Allen receives a retainer of $100,000 a year from the Japanese firm, a figure the newspaper said Allen refused to confirm. 
The Journal article said that while on the White House staff, Allen helped aJapanese business 
' asstftltlltenrtobtairt information about U.S. import/export poli­cies. 
Letters from Allen, the paper said, "makeitclearthatMr.Allen was seeking to set up big con­sulting contracts from the Japanese. After his government sevice ended he got some of them." 

----...... . --=.:..:, 
Halloween Molson 1Corby's:
Style .~:~ ---.-n., 
Iii ~~i
8 to 9 2 for $1.00 ~ '' ------_. . I 
9 to 10 2 for $1.25 II --­10 to 12 2 for $1.50 / Go Irish 12 on 2 for $1.7Sf1efs Take Navy 
/ LITE-IV
CORBY'S //All day rong Miller L 

TheyII scare / 2 for $1.00 · the buck /~During Game 3 for $1 out of / Open at noon you! 
/ for ame warmu 
~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~1.--------------------------------­


: SMC REPORTERS f 
: MEETJN"~ .t. t monday, nov 3 at 6pm ···· 1 
: REGJNA SOUfH : t BASEMENT t 
: NEW 
t t REPORTERS t ~COME t 
t 
~~~ ~ ~ ~ ._.. ~ ~ ~ .._.. ~ ~ .._. ._.. ~~ ~ t 
~ 
the notre dame student union ~s country rock jam~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!! featuring TIME: 5:30-1:OOam thevassarclements txsld riiiiiUIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIUIIIIIIII.-11 ftlft ,,;,,.,,·,;lllllllilltllllllll-1111.. ~-tickets: $5.00 general admi~sion l with spec;ialguests ~ $4.00 w. n.d./smc 1.d. • ~ johnhall.~ I !available at: ndsu ticket office m·f (12-4) ~ heartstteld ~ all river city record stores ~ ~ ~ . _radio flyer ~chicken barbecue 5-B...,e;m. tickets $3.50~ nch p1'8ZIOSO 8t kevin QUigley;,.............................sal:nOv. 1st~·-sfepan center  
University of Pennsylvania The Wharton School is currently engaged in a year long celebration of its centennial, having been founded by Joseph Wharton in 1881. During Wharton's first one-hundred years, over 110 people from Notre Dame have attended the MBA program, and have gone on to positions of prominence and prestige throughout the world. On November 4, 1980, Mr. David Kavasnicka, from the Graduate Admissions Office, will be on campus to meet with those students who are interested in learning more about Wharton's MBA and MS in Accounting programs. All students, regardless of their undergraduate major, are invited to attend informal group sessions during which admission, financial aid, curriculum, and placement will be discussed. To obtain further information, please contact your placement center.  

NDSU Social·commission 
Presents: "A MASQUERADE PARTY'' Costume Judging: 
Free Van Halen Tix 
· as prizes 
LIVE BAND 
-
Free Admission and Munchies 
9-1 Friday, October 31, 1980 North Dining Hall 
~ 
---------------------------------------~----~--~----------------------------L-~ 

The Observer Friday, October 31, 1980 -page 6 
Cal·t0 rnia
Oil of 1 

Standard APPUCAN'f: 
225 Bush ~treetCalifornia 941~ \ f.rnp\oyrnent ,_ ADDRESS: San fraJlCl~· ot Professiona . b eathe, and see 
eoordlnator room tO r 
Attn: . d give thetn 
. d wecanhn ,
beSt rrun s 
E. Hire the take us. 

oBJE.CflV : where they )(.PE.RlENCE·. ARSOF E oM oUR \00 YE \e dri\\. reaches 
A FEW HiGHLiGHTS FR . u something call;!:~ :~es waY to oi\. red Taylor. usm" of 560 feet· .....A 1880· f d-won dePth ses. deve\0~'"' 
the har racking proc:es . ding an odern hydroC . liz.ed· provl t 20 years·The {irst o{ the ~ rs is cOtnmercta nds {or the nex 1959. ~--~' researc e ' {ue\oildema

by ;:,u...-ponse to . geconomic res htha refo~'n 
with a na~ ses re{meTY

hers cOtne u~ hich mcrea 
5cJC3l ~ed R}lenifortn~!d~asoline5·
1967. 

process roduce unlea 
1

capacity to P . d'· 1ected by Soe3\ed in the 
. 1\auon 1 . is sett 

. n and msta . in h1stoTY . 11/2 times With cOns~ct~~st offshore~tral p\atfortn ~~man-made 
1978. engineers. t e h Atlantic. The ·d and the \arges turbul~nt N~~he Great pyraml , the he~ght 0 ed but 
. ever m0" · . 1be this year. ob)ecl --"throughs wil h re are some. hat the b~ aking sure t e We don't '.m0 :W;d$2.8 billion tom 
1980· , c0mm1U we ve . alternate energy 
. computer sc,ence5· ngineenng. 
... _....n sciences· e 

r:.cu ... h and more·
researc . 

worldwide. 38.~ etnPloyees 
Chevron 

• Standard Oil Company of California 
=== 





Pessen reveals Presidents' backrounds 
By David Sarphie 
The contention that a majority of U.S. presidents come from humble, "ordinary" backgrounds was rejected by Distinguished Professor Edward Pessen Thurs­day night in a speech at the Galvin Auditorium. 
Pessen, a Guggenheim Fellow and current chairman of the history department at the City University of New York, cited many examples from the lives of the 38 presidents. He contrasted the economic status of these leaders to the social structure of the "led." 
When he researched social mobility, Pessen's interest in the presidents' upbringings was sparked. In an attempt to dis­cover how these men had risen in the social circles, he found few coordinated statistics to com­pare their economic backgrounds with the economic status of the population in general. Thus, Pessen decided to design his own study and the results were, as he put it, "quite astonishing." 
Pessen found that whereas only one percent .of the 
.American population has, at any one time, been of the upper economic class, a surprising 44 percent of U.S. Presidents have been of that strata. Much of this wealth has been inherited from prosperous parents. 
Abraham Lincoln, for example, is usually depicted in folklore as being from a poor peasant family. 
Through his research, however, Pessen learned otherwise. He described Lincoln's father as belonging to the top 15 percent 

of the Indiana landowners. Other presidents have been 
-even more fortunate. Pessen termed the father of John Quincy Adams as the richest man in America. Likewise, Theodore Roosevelt was raised in the luxuriant Hyde Park section of New York City. 
Pessen described only six of the presidents as being ofmodest backgrounds. Indeed, several of these men were able to improve their economic status through what he called "prosperous marriages." · 
Pessen admitted that his find­ings might be of dubious significance when contrasted to the actual performances of each man in office. Yet he noted that 
his study might aid future research on the presidency. 
... Parliment 
[continued from page 41 
Iraqi military attacks, that mad 
debate very difficult 
Deputies who oppose any action on a hostage settlement until after the U.S. presidential election, Milled nOisily outside the assembly chamber while le~islators inside tried and faded to raise the necessary quorum-179 of 228 members. 
Some 66 deputies fAILED TO HEED PLEAS BROADCAST ON Tehran radio that they appear for the scheduled hear­ing of a special c:ommittee repon on the terms for the 

Youth Is Our Concern 
The Piarists are a Catholic Order of priests and 
brothers who dedicate their lives to educate the 
young. They work in schools, CCD programs 
'\:===I and parishes. For more information, write: 
Vocation Director ' The Plarists 363 Valley Forge Road Devon, Pennsylvania 19333 

Chevron Family of Com An equal opportur-ity/affi ·~-• 
American's release. The first anniversary of their captivity falls on Nov. 4,the same day as the U.S.election. 
When ti became clear that no more than 162 of the members were gL ing to show up ·at Parliament, the apparently in­furiated Judge Sadesh Khalkali stormed to the rostrum waving his white in the air and pleaded for a quorum so debate could begin, according to a Danish reponer 

Prices Good While Supply Lasts 
Miller Lite Beer 
24-12 oz. cans 
$7.79 
House of Stewart Blended Scotch Whiskey 
1 Liter 

$6.49 

Riunite Lambrusco 
750 ml 

$2.59 
Blatz Beer 
24-12 oz. N/R Bottles 

$5.99 


Kamchatka Vodka 
0
1 Liter 

$4.49 
R 
L 
Philadelphia Blended 
D· 
Whiskey 
1 Liter 

$5.77 

2128 South Bend A vc. Phone: 277-3611 NO Party 
Hea 

L 
0 
c 
K 
s 
L 
I 

The Observer ,Friday, October 31, 1980--page 7 








Hallo~een os ume Party
Biggest and Best in Town 
Friday, Oct. 31 
Happy Hour 4:00-7:00 Beer SpecialS
9:30 -2:00 Drink Specials 

Mardi Gras plans take shape! 
by David Ric~ba*sh StaffReporter 
Planning has started for the 33rd annual Mardi Gras which will take place February 13-21 in the Stepan center and cen­ters around the theme "In The News.'' 
Srudenrs of Notre Dame and 
Theatre offers performances 
ND/SMC Theatre offers two productions this weekend. Sam.. Beckett's play "Ulti­mates" will be performed at the SMC Little Theatre this evening and tomorrow night at 8 p.m. 
ND Junior Doug Kreigtzerg's "Molly's Song"(based on a scene from James Joyce Ulysses will be presented tonight and Sunday evening at 8:30 p.m. on the O'Laughlin Auditorium stage. 
Admission for all performan­ces is free. 
Coalition 
provides workshop 
Sunday, Nov. 2 at 4 p.m., the World Hunger Coalition will sponsor a miniworkshop on "World Trade and its Effects on Hunger". Program includes group gaming simulation fol­lowed by film" "Bread Justice and Trade" and vegetarian meal afterward. All invited and wel­comed to attend. To be held at Regina South Basement (SMC). 

CILA 
to hold meeting 
CILA (Community for the International Lay Apostolate), will hold a General Meeting on Sunday, Nov. 2, at 6:45 p.m. in the Library Lounge. 
Opportunities for community service in South Bend and the upcoming educational work­shop will be discussed, as well as the sale ofCILA Christmas cards. 
New members are welcome. 
Saint 'Mary~s will be asked to sell $1 raffle tickets for the grand prize of a 1981 Cutlass Supreme from Navarre Cadillac Oldsmobile in South Bend. The car will be on display on the South Quad on Nov. 22. 
The proceeds from the raffle tickets will be donated to national and local charities. Past recipients of the Maredi Gras J?roftts include; sr.ecial Olymptcs, Phoenix Hal , St. Anthony's New Mission in India, FLOC, Big Brothers, Big Sisters and Logan Center. 
Sellers of ten ticket books will be eligible in five prize draw­ings including one with prize o f free admission to a mght of Mardi Gras. 
There will be a drawing for a 12" black and white 1V, for sellers of books of tickets sold between Oct. 27 and Nov. 26. Another drawing, for a week­end trip to Chicago that inc­ludes dinner and theater for two, will be held for the sellers 
of  books  of tickets  between  
Oct. 27 an d Dec. 19.  
A  third  drawing,  for  a  

portable cassette,AM/FM 


B 
Friday 7-11 STROHS 2 cans for $1.00 KAMIKAZES 2 for S1.00 
Giveaways and Prizes 
Don't forget the TGIF HappyDon't Forget The TGIF HapQy Hour from 4-7 
Special Holy Day Mass All Saints Liturgy 
• 

Friday, October 31 -5:15p.m. Saturday, November 1 -11:30 a.m. 
.,.'l ''o '"' ~-,,. ,.,, _v:· 
at SACRED HEART CHURCH 
Check hall bulletin boards for times of Masses in dorms. 
player, will be held for sellers of books of tickets between Oct.27 and Mardi Gras. 
On the fmal night of Mardi Gras,an overall sellers drawing for first and second prize will be held. The first prize winner will choose between a one week trip for two to the Bahamas, or a one week ski trip for two in Breckenridge, Colorado. The second prize will receive the remaining trip. 
Along with ticket sates, plan­ning has begun on the various dorm and club booths that constitute the event. 
The booths will conduct such as blackjack and poker or sell refreshments. 
Booth ideas presented to the Mardi Gras committee for ap­proval include; Nixon Resigns, Man lands on the moon, Prohibition repealed, and Ln­dbergh crosses the atlantic. 
!he 81' MardiG~as could pos­Stbly ~~the last wtth gamblmg. Bishop McManus has stated· that gambling will not be permitted at the 82' Mardi Gras. 
a 
campus
miniStry 



nnu 








~~~-::~,c~~i~~u I 
I \l"L\" .g • '\3th, I
I corner spr'n I 
1

I HouRs: Stuffed
1 Tues.. Wed.. Thurs. I 1 4to1o p1•zza 11 Fri. & Sat. I 
4 to 11 Oar Specialty I

1 ISl.OO off any size stuffed pizza 1
II coupon good thru Sat.. Nov. 8th 1 I · I 1 1123 Spring Str. phone :256-2620 I 
~----------------_,______. 
THE MUSIC BOX 120 W. Mishawaka Ave. Mish., IN (256-5440) 


Lots to see at the best new club in town, with the best entertainment around: 
, 


with Straight Flush Nov. 6 -Alex DeGrassi with Rick Walters Nov. 7 8c 8 -The 3rd Street 
Sliders Nov. 12 -Free Spirit Nov. 13-Jeff Lorber Fusion 
with Free Spirit 
Nov. 14-New grass Revival with Pink 8c the Naturals 
•


n1or or 
Chips Gums Candy MeatSticks 
Pastries Peanuts 

r 
The Observer 
Friday, October 31 , 1980 -page 8 

Summer 
program searches for Israel's 
past 
Editor's Note: This is the secondpartof a two-part series highlighting the Capemaum volunteer program. Last summer, professors andstudents travel­led to Israel to participate in an archeologicaldig. Today, reporter Toni Anastoos takes readers to the dig site. 
A typical day began at 5:30 
a.m. when the group drove to the site and ate a light snack of tea, jam, and bread before digging. Work was stopped at 9 a.m. for a full breakfast ofeggs, bread, and cheese. Digging continued until noon, then was stopped because of the intense heat. 
After lunch the pottery annd other articles found during the digging were "read" under the shade of the trees. Here the volunteers learned how to as­sociate pieces of pottery with time periods in order to build a story of past centuries. 
Swimming in the nearby Sea of to the physical labor, but the 
Galillee quickly became a popu­directors anticipated this. So lar afternoon activity. Around 2 they slowed the pace for the first 
p.m. the group returned to their week to give us time to adjust." hotel where the volunteers were 
Constant heat called for free to do as they liked. another adjustment. Participants had to wear protective clothing 

at all times and drink fluids every 15-30 minutes. Gloves and boots served to guard against insect bites (i.e. scorpions) and other injuries. 
The first task was to clear the area which measured 70 square meters. Lacey Twinning, a (SMC) student who participated in the program, explained, "We had to literally hand remove the rocks from the field. It was the hardest work I've ever done." Susan. Riley, another(SMC) participant echoed Twinning's sentiments saying, "It took a while to adjust 

After the rocks were cleared, the grass had to be raked for articles, then partially burned to facilitate digging. One or two persons were assigned to a square plot. These squares, marked off with string, became the sole responsibility ofthe participants, who conducted their own dig­ging and were required to keep their squares clean. 
A preliminary report of the 

HOW WOULD YOU LIKE AFREE POSTER 
~' 

OF THESE GUYS HANGING AROUND YOUR ROOM? 
Who would ever guess that an unruly bunch of famous Lite Beer drinkers would someday pose for a classic photograph? This precious moment has been captured in a big (18" by 24" ) beautiful color Lite Beer Alunmi Poster that's yours for free. 
Just cut out the coupon, being sure to include your name and address, and send it to: Lite Beer Alunmi Poster, Box 11973, Milwaukee, WI 53211. 
LITE BEER FROM MILLER. 
EVERYTHING YOU ALWAYS WANTED IN ABEER.AND LESS. 
1980 Beer Brewed by Mtller Brewtng Co.. Mrlwaukee. Wts 

archeological expedition, writ­ten by Vassilios Tzaferis and Herold Weiss, stated: "On the surface, not more than five em below the present surface, were found the remains of the latest buildings. Even though their preservation was poor, some units and rooms were success­fully traced. Enough was un­covered to give us an idea of the social life of the village in the eighth and ninth centuries C.E. (sic).It is significant to note, however, that life at Capernaum continued uninterruptedly at least up to the ninth century 
C.E." (This is important because it had been previously thought that the site had been abandoned in the 7th century). " ... allowed us to reconstruct large living units with three or four rooms, stone pavements, and well constructed beaten earthen floors," the re­port said. 
This past season the Arab stratum was unearthed, and toward the end of the dig, Byzantine buildings were dis­covered. Thus, the time period for this next season's expedition will start around the sixth or seventh century. 
"I think the hardest adjust­ment for the participants was to come to terms with removing the heavy blocks and seeing their daily task in terms of scientific methology," Weiss declared. "New problems arose each day so the volunteers were constant­ly learning. We taught them basic archaeological steps but the volunteers had to expanttd their knowledge by working with the daily problems, the new evidence, reference," he added. 
All the participants claim to have acquired at least some basic skills in roughly estimating time periods of uncoyered artifacts. Almost all confess to saving some of the duplicate pieces ofpottery and glass as momentos of their archaelogical expedition. The important artifacts are kept by the Israeli Department of Antiquities as permanent evi­dence for the reconstruction ofa more complete picture of early Christian history. 
BackpackerVest 
A lightweight, warm, good-ICIOklng J vest filled with 550 the fabric is durable Softron, and the high corduroy collar is filled with Dacron® Hollofil™ II insulation to keep out the cold. 




@utpost
Jradinc

Company 
16533 Cleveland Road Granger, IN 46530 
across from 



~~~ I 
Address

I City Stote ____Zip I 
L 
Offer expires June 30, 1981 Vo d where proh b ted by law 
J 







The Irish Extra 
an Observer sports supplement 
Friday,·October 31 , 1980 -page 9 
Notre Dame matches-up with Middies 
by Gary Gra.uey concentrating on that. With a ball not playing like a freshman and our
sensation Phil Carter over the first three 
Sports Writer control offense like ours, a major penal­experience from last year is showing."
weeks of the season. A fourth 100-yard ty is hard to overcome and can just kill a Freshman Toran will continue at leftgame against the Middies tomorrow 
Now matter how improbable, things drive." · cornerback, while Duerson moves to
would give Stone an Irish record he now continue falling Into place for this Notre shares at three with Carter, Neil The Irish defense, has been stone­DeSiato's strong saf(!ty spot for the walling it of late, permitting no touch­
Dame football team. Worden, Marchy Schwartz, and George second straight week. Tim Marshall, 
Inexperience and injuries have been downs the last two weeks and allowing another freshman, will inherit Kidd's
Gipp.
offset by the surprising amount ofdepth no scores on the ground in 12 quarters of defensive tackle position.
The crucial factor, however, in build­
on the young Irish roster and the less ing the offense that is making people football. Arizona gained a mere 166 Head coach George Welsh's 5-2 Navy surprising brand of enthusiasm that has forget Vagas Ferguson, has been the yards last Saturday, with a second half team comes off their impressive 24-10 ' been brewing on this team since the limitation of 39 yards and three first triumph last week against Washington
offensive line, as coach Devine will earliest days of spring practice. readily admit. •.... downs. as a team to be reckoned with. Throw As a result, Notre Dame, one of six "I couldn't say it's a complete sur­"We've just been coming together as a out the Middies' embarrassing loss toAir unbeaten teams in the nation with a 6-0 prise," he said, "But we're very pleased unit," said free safety Tom Gibbons. Force, because, as Devine notes, this is a mark, enters tomorrow afternoon's "We fuund out last spring that this team quality Navy team.
with the way our young offensive line 
game (1:30 p.m. EST) against talented plays together well, and even with a few "We saw some of Navy's victory at
has come along. With three starters 
Navy as the third-ranked team in the injuries (i.e. tackle Don Kidd and de­Washington on TV," he remarked,
graduated (from 1979) and Tim nation, enjoying its best start since the Huffman out early with a broken foot, fensive backs Dave Duerson, Tom "And our players could see for them­197 3 national championship season. DeSiato and Steve Cichy) we've held up. selves what they're up against. They
we didn't have much experience. But 
The contest will be played on the "A guy like (cornerback) Stacey Toran," (Navy) simply played great fundamental
people like Mike Shiner, Bobby Burger,
astroturf at Giants Stadium in East continued the senior co-captain, "is just football."
and Phil Pozderac really do a job for us Rutherford, NJ before a capacity crowd even when we've had these injuries." Tailback Eddie Meyers leads the of 76,000. All-America center John Scully, who Midshipmen in rushing with 514 yards The story for the Irish continues to goes up another exceptional lineman in on 107 carries. Meyers burst onto the center on the offense Dan Devine and Middie noseguard Terry Huxel Satur­scene last year when his first starting 
his staff have patched together to the day, offered, "At the beginning of the assignment of the year produced 99 tune of 383 yards per outing. Freshman year, I knew we (the offensive line) George yards rushing against, Notre Dame. quarterback Blair Kiel gets better each would play Fullback Mike Sherlock has gained 352 
Welsh

week(11-20 passing for 152 yards and an with enthusiasm, but I wasn't sure we'd yards by land this season for Navy. 80-yard TO run last Saturday vs. Former defensive back Fred Reitzel
come together as well as we have. I 
Arizona) and the tailback slot, to be didn't realize we had this much depth." continues to take snaps for the Middies. occupied again by senior Jim Stone, The one worry for offensive line coach The senior quarterback scored all three continues to produce 100-yard games. Brian Boulac has not been the talent, Navy touchdowns against Washington 
Stone's 109-yard effort against rather the rash of holding penalties and was uncanny in critical situations Arizona was his third consecutive game incurred in recent weeks by the front with his passing and running threat. over the century mark, continuing the wall. "The number of holding penalties 
(continued on page 11) 

pace established by injured sophomore is distu " he said, "So we've been 
Welch family sWitches allegiance to Academy 
Welch excelled in the season finale, a 31-7
by Chris Needles 
mauling of arch-rival Army. He and his
Sports Writer 
comrades on the offensive line opened up more 

CHURCHVILLE, Pa.-Mr. and Mrs. holes than you'll find in a dead Mafia leader's Richard Welch, Sr. (Notre Dame '55 and Saint body in helping reserve tailback Eddie Meyers Mary's '56, respectively) will be in attendance at gain a Navy record 278 yards rushing in 42 Giants Stadium tomorrow as their beloved carries. 
Fighting Irish take on the Middies from Navy. Welch was an All-State offensive tackle in his 
Their middle son, Michael (ND '83), will also senior year at Council Rock High School, a be there, having made the 800-mile trek east on perennial power in Southeastern Pennsylvania I-80 from South Bend to East Rutherford, New football. (He also was an All-State discus Jersey. thrower for the track team.) Of course, the 
.of course! there ~s no doubt ~s to who they college recruiters came knocking at his front wt,l.J be r~?tmg for m tomorrows c<;mte~t. door, including some from Pitt, Penn State, ~a~y, they say, concurrently and Without· Michigan, and, yes, Notre Dame. But after 
hes1tat10n. · much thought and consultation with his "Navy, without a doubt," says Mike. pareryts, Welch opted for the Naval Academy. Gulp! Could it be true that three diehard, "It h h · "h 'd "B ·r
11

true-and-green Notre Dame fans are actually rea Y was a ~doug dcNotce, D e sat I. d'du~ 
· h . 11 · h · . ~ never rea 1y const ere otre arne. 1 n t 
pIedgmg·t e1r a eg1ances to t e opposttlon. ~ ll'k 1 . ~ tb II t h 1 1
00 00

Isn't there an unwritten 11th Commandment ee 1 e P aymg a a a sc , w lere 
"Th h lt t t · st Notre football seemed to be the most Important
that says, ou s a no roo agam thing Dame"? Talk abo~t mortal sins! . "E~en though ND is a great school, I wanted 
But, alas, there 1s a method to th1s madness. t · d · 'th r tb 11 th
b R' h d o mtx aca em1cs w1 100 a even more anI h' 
You see, theWe c s num er one son, tc ar th d'd, Jr., is the starting offensive right tackle for the ~Iy 1 ·1d 't b h · 'th N " 
N f, tb 11 t H I n 1'th fellow cou n e appler WI avy.
avy .oo . a earn. e, a 0 g ~ His parents, it seems, are just as happy.offen~tve hner,nan Frank McCall~ster, an All-"Of course, I would have liked to have seen ~menc~ cand1date, anchor~ sol.td, but Rick go toNotreDame," said Welch. "Any ND mexpenenced, Navy offensive lm~. . graduate would love to see his son go to Notre 
O.kay, Mr. and Mrs. Welch. Alit~ for~1~en: Dame. But from what I see now, he couldn't be 
Rick Welch, a 6-5~ 25 7-pound semor, 1S m h1s at a better school." fourth year as a vars1ty performer for the N~val Mr. and Mrs. Welch, whp first met on a lonely ~cademy foot~all. team. He earned a startmg Notre Dame Thanksgiving evening in 1952, JOb at the ~eg1?nmg of last season, a:"~ first took little Richard to an ND football game perforll}.ed m mne ofelev~ll: games, mlssmg the when he was ten ears old. That day, ironically, other two because of an tnjured knee. It was a the I · h d ~ t JN 47 0 "I th' k I t 
now a starting for Navy, ispictured season that saw Navy get off to a flying 6-0 start ns e ea e ,avy, -· m .w~.n ~o here as a 10-year-o/d Notre Dame fan along with brothers Michael before being brought back down to earth with about three games m South Bend as a k1d, sa1d (center) and &bby. Their parents, Mr. andMrs. Richard Welch, Sr. are consecutive losses to Pitt, Notre Dame, (continued on page 12) graduates o Notre Dame and St. Ma 's. Syracuse, and Georgia Tech. 

The Insh Extra Friday, October 31, 1980 -page 10 
Freshman Blair Kiel does it all at quarterback 

Frank LaGrotta 
Quarterback. 
He calls the plays and takes the snap, hands it offor passes it"'r 
runs himself; runs the offense­
Runs the show. 
The quarterback. 
Football's glamour boy. All eyes are on our hero as he"-fades 
back to pass. He's looking long. He's throwing long. He's... he's... " 
Intercepted. 
He's the goat. 
He's the quarterback. 
No other position in sportcarries with it the prestige, the curtain 
calls, the responsibility ... 
(the pressure) 
... that comes with playing quarterback. 
Or being the quarterback. 
And there is a difference-especially at Notre Dame where the 
standing joke is that the Fighting Irish quarterback has the second 
most difficult job in the Catholic Church. 
Funny, huh? 
When was the last time the Pope looked through his face mask 
at fourth and long and the USC defensive line? Notre Dame's quarterback. . A role that defie~ yet demands those inevitable comparisons. 
"Is he as smart as Lujack? "Can he throw like Bertellt? "Run like Clements? "Win like Montana? 
Being Notre Dame's quarterback. 
It's not a job. It's a way of life that neither begins nor ends at practice or on game day or when he graduates or when he dies. Because he is Notre Dame's quarterback and, if he does it right, people will always remember. 
Carideo, Williams, Hornung, Hanratty, Theismann. The history. Tradition. (the pressure) Tradition. All ofwhich is not lost on Blair Kiel. The sandy-haired freshman 
from Columbus, Ind., knew exactly what he was getting into when he passed up hundreds ofother colleges for the chance to beNotre Dame's quarterback. He'd heard the names. He knew the stories. He was fully aware of what might happen. 
He just didn't think it would happen this fast. 
"It's beyond anything I ever dreamed about," he says modestly. And with Kiel, that modesty is real-not the fake humility that some people slobber because they want to read how modest they 
are. 
"I wasn't sure the coaches would take a chance on a freshman at 
fifst, so I made up my mind to come in and work as hard as I could. 
Everything happened a lot quicker than I expected." 
It started with a desperation appearance against Michigan, 
followed by two and one-half quarters ofreliefat East Lansing. His 
first start came against Miami and at this point, it is safe to assume 
that Blair Kiel will be Dan Devine's starting quarterback until his 
retirement do they part. And though he has yet to equal 
Theismann's passing stats or Hornung's rushing yardage, Kiel is 
steadily blossoming into a complete player-one who may leave 
many ofthose names and numbers in the dustbefore he's through. 
He has the chance to become the first four-year starting 
quarterback inNotre Dame football history. Ralph Guglielmi was 
the last rookie to start the position, taking over for a senior, John 
Mazur, in the eighth game ofthe 1951 season. Hbwever, with only 
two games remaining on the schedule that year, Guglielmi hardly 
qualifies as a four-year front-liner. . Of course, one must consider such things as the imminent coaching change and the natural yearly influx of fresh talent, before starting to hand out next year's first-string positions. Yet it would seem Kiel has a definite advantage. 
And he plans on making the most of it. 
"I am going to work very hard to keep improving," he points 
out. "The goal of our team is to be better today than we were 
yesterday, and that is what I try to do personally. 
· "I know there are areas ofmy game that need improvement," he 
adds honestly. "But I think I'm learning, and I hope I'm gradually 
getting better." 
Former Irish quarterback and Reisman Trophy winner John 
Huarte claims Kiel is the best freshman passer he's ever seen. You 
have to believe Mr. Huarte never saw Mr. Herrmann play in 1977 
when, as a rookie, he started shattering Big Ten passing records 
before the season was half over. But you also have to believe that 
Huarte knows a little something about quarterbacking and he 
obviously recognizes Kiel's talent and the potential he has to 
develop it. 
Still there is more to being Notre Dame's quarterback than just 
playing the position, anditis this aspect ofKiel's performance with 
which I would like to take issue because that's where I think this 
kid really excels. 
Did you ever try balancing the normal freshman adjustments 
(academics, social pressures, dorm life, etc.) with practice 
schedules, road trips, team meetings and all the other things every 
Notre Dame student-athlete must cope with. Now throw in the 
additional pressures Kiel must face because, remember, he is 
Notre Dame's quarterback. 
"There is some pressure, that's for sure," he admits with a grin. 
"But, I guess I put a lot on myself because I know I have to push 
myself ifI'm going to improve. 
(continued on page 11) 

Blair Kiel Paul Hornung 





joe Theismann 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~
-
Friday, October 31,. 1980 -page 11
The Irish Extra 

by Kelly Sullivan Women's Sports Editor 

In tomorrow's Navy-Notre Dame football program, you'll find Nick Vehr listed as a tight end out ofCincinnati, Ohio. The listing lends itself to all kinds of assumptions from readers. 
Vehr hails from Cincinnati, so he went to Moeller high school, right? 
"I went to St. Xavier, and in my four years there we never came close to beating Moeller," he laughs. 
Grew up watching Notre Dame football and dreamed of someday playing here, you think? 
"I was never a big Notre Dame fan," he insists. "I really never thought about coming here until they recruited me." 
He's a member ofprobably the most unheralded group of players on the field, so an offensive lineman like himself would jump at the chance to acquire a little publicity, wouldn't he? 
"A lineman doesn't get a lot of press, but just knowing that the backs have a 100-yard day is enough," says the likeable senior. "Peer recog­nition is more important than public recogni­tion." 
There is something different about Nick Vehr. A difference that impresses you the moment you meet him. But maybe that's because Vehr has worked just as hard onhis character as he has on his football talents. 
"One of my biggest concerns when I came to college was not to be stereotyped as an athlete," Vehr says with conviction. "I've tried to con­


, , .Kiel 
(continued from page 10) 
"Sometimes though it does get a little tough answering all the question and talking to all the people. But I know I have to do it, so.." 
Meyers guides Irish line 
by Skip Desjardin 
Sports Writer 
"It's the least of my worries right 
now." 
While everyone else on campus may 
be wondering, and worrying, about all 
the holding penalties that have been 
called against Notre Dame's offensive 
line, assistant coach Bill Meyers is not 
dwelling on it. 
"I hope the players aren't either," he 
says."All I want them to concentrate on 
is hitting. If they start to worry about 
holding calls, they'll become distracted, 
and won't play as well." 
The Irish offensive line coach is not 
going to lay the blame for the penalties 
at anyone's feet. He says it is a 
combination of problems. 
"Sure we have been caught for holding. That call can be made on almost every play ofevery football game ever played. We run more plays than most schools, and the averages are bound to catch up with us. The call is the referee's to make. Not one Big Ten referee has flagged us for holding, but 
we have had our problems with ECAC and SEC officials." Meyers is in his second year at Notre Dame, after sandwiching coaching stints 
California-Berkeley around a stay at 
Clara. He was a lineman himself, 
ng down a starting position on the 
tanford Rose Bowl teams of 1970 and 
971. 
"I've got great material to work with 
There is no doubt in my mind that 
Scully and Tim Huffman should be 
But this whole squad has 
talent." 
"I was pleased with their play up until 
fourth quarter of the Arizona game. 
lost a little concentration and over to this week." 
It had better not. Navy has the number four defense in the country, a statistic that is well noted by Meyers. 
"Their win over Washington was no fluke. Navy always has quality · personnel. They play a very physical, disciplined ballgame. We are well aware of their capabilities, but I am sure that we'll be ready for them by game time." 
"Officially, "'Y job is to work with centers and guards. Brian Boulac has a lot of administrative responsibilities as offensive coordinator, so our roles tend to overlap on the practice field. Consequently, I spend time with all of the linemen." 
Mevers stresses that the Navy game is all tha. is on his mind this week, just as Georgia Tech will be his prime concern starting Sunday. Because ofthis, Meyers says, Dan Devine's resignation, and the fate of his assistant coaches, has been mentally put aside. 
"There are two sayil:!J!S that I live by. One of them is the adage that there are 
only two kinds of coaches, those who 
have been fired, and those who are 
waiting to be fired." 
"It is just a part of coaching that you have to accept. Like my other saying dictates, always keep a suitcase packed." 
Meyers is going nowhere more important than East Rutherford, New Jersey for the time being. 
"We are ready for Navy. We have been making strides in the right direction all week, and I can see a marked improvement at the end of every week. That will continue all season." 
Meyers is coaching one of the best offensive lines in the country, and he says that it is still improving. Mention 
This week alone, writers from five different newspapers along with ESPN and local television and radio stations have been clamoring for his time-which he gives courteously, intelligently and with no hint that he just might be wishing he could forget all about it and head on home. 
"I think about home all the time." he admits with a sigh. "I come from a very close family, and I have a lot ofgood friends back home. It sure has been tough being away from all of them." 
But after spending some time with him, you can't help but believe Blair Kiel will beat homesickness the way he beat the odds that said Notre Dame would never start a freshman at quarterback -the way he beat Army and Miami and Arizona and Michigan State. 
And he'll keep answering questions and posing for photographers, im­proving evey day on the field and in th classroom-because it's all part of being Notre Dame's quarterback and right now Blair Kiel is Notre Dame's quarterback. 
Whether he likes it or not. 
=============== 


, , .Middies 
(continued from page 9) 

"They're gonna be tough," Gibbons predicts. "I think they'll try to run over us, so we'll just have to stop them." 
The Middies rank sixth in the nation in total defense (224 yds. /game) and eighth in rushing de­fense (101.4 yds./game). Nose guard Huxel and tackles Chris Garner and Paul Soares are the mainstays up front. Says Scully, 
Against Navy 
Vehr'opens at tight end 
centrate on developing myself more as a person 
than as a player." 
It would seem he has succeeded at both. 
The 6'4", 236 pounder has been a capable 
backup to junior Dean Masztak, logging an 
immense amount ofplaying time for a non-starter. 
He has seen action in every game the past two 
seasons, and with Masztak sidelined by a sprained 
ankle this fall, Vehr has been thrust into the role of 
a starter. 
"Nick's been a key performer for us the last 
three years," notes offensive line coach Brian 
Boulac. "He's started a number of games for us 
since his sophomore year. We've never been afraid 
to use him." 
Vehr's blocking ability has been a big assetto the 
Irish offensive attack this season, though the big 
receiver has also hauled in foar passes for 62 yards, 
including a catch at the one-yard line last week that 
set up Notre Dame's first touchdown against 
Arizona. 
"Everyone says I'm the blocking tight end and 
Dean's the receiving tight end, but over the past 
two years Dean's gotten to be a better blocker and 
I feel I've improved as a receiver." 
Vehr's efforts have not gone unnoticed by his 
mentors. 
"With Deanout its putan extra burden on Nick, 
and he's played exceptionally well," Boulac 
offered. "His blocking has been outstanding and 
he's been catching the ball well. Nick's an intregal 
part of this offense." 
About the only black spot in what's otherwise 
been a bright season for Velu.has been the loss of 
defensive tackle Don Kidd, Vehr's roommate for 
the past four years. 
"Since Don and I began rooming together, our 
parents have become best friends," he says with an 
approving grin. They come up (from Cincinnati) 
to all the games together, and our morns call each 
other up and talk football for hours." 
Kidd, who underwent surgery on his knee this 
week, is now an inspiration to his friend. 
"He really worked hard this year, and now he can't play. It's added incentive for me to make a success of the season." 
Vehr is no stranger to athletic success. He captained both his football and basketball squads in high school, and was an all-state high jumper as well. His bookstore basketball team, TheAssasins, finished among the final eight teams last spring with help from football teammates Bob Crable and Tony Hunter. 
Yet, concerned as he is about being stereotyped, Vehr needn't worry that people think his abilities begin and end on the playing field. 
The English/communications major boasts a GPA hovering at the 3.0 mark, quite an achieve­ment for someone who devotes in the neighbor­hood of40 hours per week to football. Vehr, who is somewhat ofa fixture on the library's first floor, in intent on pursuinng a political career in the nation's capital. His personable, self assured manner will likely land him a job, but he's taking advantage of his Notre Dame education aS" well. 
"The main reason I chose to come to Notre Dame was because of its combination ofathletics and academics. There's not many schools in the country where players are allowed to miss practice because of a late class. With all the news about colleges giving false c;:redits to its football players, it makes the guys on the team feel good to know none of that goes on here." 
The Grace Hall resident has succeeded in his quest for athletic and academic development. But his years at Notre Dame have yielded spiritual growth, too. 
"My life here has really increased my faith," Vehr says with sincerity. "It's been extremely motivational to play for a school devoted to Our Lady. When I came as a freshman, I thought 'Here's a whole university, a whole tradition devoted to Her-there must be something special here."' 
When Vehr looks back on his gridiron career, winning the national championship his freshman year, or catching his two touchdown passes last season must certainly standout in his mind But to assume that any personal accomplishments are what Vehr will remember most would be a mistake. Remember, there is something different about this young man who takes every oppor­tunity to be in the spotlight and turns it in another direction. 
"The moment I'll remember most about Notre 

ressiveness toward the end of that that to Bill Meyers, and you'll get a very "I'm sort ofgetting used to playing but I don't think that it will carry big smile. guys like this." (continued on page 12}
• 

t 
I 
L The Irish Extra ., Friday, October 31, 1980 -page 12 
I ~ 
r 
ND band spirit plays

Irish Stats Line-ups 
role in sparking fans 

TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP SCORING G TO PAT R·PA S FG TP NOTRE DAME OFFENSE 
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 2300 1514 Oliver 6 014-17 0-0 0 13-16 53 
by Diane Mazurek

POS. NO PLAYER HT WT CL 
Total Plays 459 368 Carter 3 4 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 24 Yards par Play 5.0 4.1 J.Stone 6 4 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 24 TE 95 Nick Vehr 6-4 236 Sr. Yards per Game 383.3 252.3 LT 74 Mike Shiner 6-7 250 So.
Kiel 6 3 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 18 McGarry 510-00-000·0 6 
There must be a good reason why theNotre Dame Marching Band_ 

LG 66 Bob Burger 8·2 240 Sr.
PENALTIES-YARDS 48·514 24·281 
Holohan 610-00-000·0 6 
is one of the few campus organizations totally supported by the

c 57 John Scully 6-5 255 Sr. FUM BLES·LOST 10-6 11·7 Krimm 6 1 0-0 0-0 0 (t-0 6 
University.

RG 78 Tim Huffman 6·5 265 Sr. 
Yards Returned 0 0 Hunter 6 1 0-0 0·0 0 (1-0 6 71 8-9
Rt Phil Pozderac 260 Jr. ' 1 There also must be a good reason why over 200 Notre Dame and 
4 1 0·0 0-1 0 ct-0 6
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 121 81 Courey SE 85 Tony Hunter 6·5 211 So. : 
Saint Mary's students devote a combined total of over 400 hours in 

By Rushing 84 40 Gibbons 610-00-000-0 6 QB 5 Blair Kiel 6·1 200 Fr. By Passing 30 36 
1 rehersal per week to this organization, or why Robert O'Brien has
Zavagnin 6 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 FB 33 John Sweeney 6·2 225 So. By Penalty 7 5 
stuck around for 29 years to direct this multitude. 

Barber 610·00-000-0 6 HB 42 Jim Stone 6-1 198 Sr. THIRD DOWNS·CONV. 111·54 90·30 Johnston 5 0 1-1 0-0 0 0-0 1 FL 31 Pete Holohan 6·5 228 Sr. 
Somewhere there just has to be an explanation for this unique 
p

Percentage .486 .333 5 Blair Kiel 6·1 200 Fr. 
behavior.

NOTRE DAME 6 1915·18 0·1 0 13·16 168 
KO 4 Mike Johnston 5·11 175 So.
POSSESSION TIME 205:52 154:08 
Even from high up in Section 33, it is evident that they are having 

OPPONENTS 6 11 4-4 1·8 0 4·7 84 
PK 3 Harry Oliver 5·11 165 Jr. 1 
Minutes per Game 34:19 25:41 
fun down there. Part of this is due to the contributions ofJim 

DEFENSIVE STATS *TM TL·YDS PBU FR BK 
• Phillips-the man who choreographs those memorable formations.
NOTRE DAME DEFENSE RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TO LG Crable 77 5·8 3 1 0 ' Another"extra" exhibited by this multitalented group is singing. 
Zavagnin 45 2·4 2 0 0 LE 47 John Hankerd 6-4 245 Sr. 1 Who could forget a communal vocal rendition of"Mary is a Grand. 
J. Stone 6 112 524 4.7 4 37 Rudzinski 34 4-16 2 1 0 
LT 98 Pat Kramer 6-4 251 Jr. 
Ole Name"? 

Carter 3 99 499 5.0 4 54 Kramer 30 7-28 3 0 0 
RT 77 Tim Marshall 6-4 240 Fr. 
\ Band President Kevin Dix, a student leader of this group of
Kiel 6 33 166 5.0 3 80 Zettek 29 7-32 1 0 0 
RE 70 Scott Zettek 6-6 245 Sr. Sweeney 6 25 114 4.6 0 17 Kidd 28 2·5 0 1 0 
200, tries to shed some light on why so much attention is paid to a 

LLB 46 Mark Zavagnin 6·2 230 So. Courey 4 25 100 4.0 1 18 Krimm 24 0-0 5 0 1 
group that is seen for only ten minutes, and only a few times a year at

MLB 43 Bob Crable 6·3 220 Jr. Barber 6 25 82 3.3 1 10 Marshall 24 7-36 0 0 0 
that.Dix says the marching band's contribution to the Notre

RL8 51 Joe Rudzinski 6-3 208 So. 
Moriarty 5 2 57 28.5 0 49 Gibbons 21 0-0 1 0 .0 
Dame/St. Mary's community is based on "a real rah-rah spirit." 

LCB 30 Stacey Toran 6-4 185 Fr. 
Hunter 6 4 44 11.0 0 22 Hankerd 18 3-8 2 0 1 
RCB 19 John Krimm 6·2 183 Jr. 
Remember the time not long ago that you too felt that aura of

Mosley 3 8 40 5.0 0 9 Desiato 17 2-8 1 2 0 
ss 23 Dave Duerson 6-3 198 So. Buchanan 6 12 32 2.7 0 9 Rice 16 0-0 1 0 0 
spirit-Day One as a freshman.It was probably the band that first 

FS 27 Tom Gibbons 6-1 181 
Bell 4 1 16 16.0 0 18 Toran 11 0-0 4 0 0 Sr. 1 made you aware that you were p. member ofthe world ofthe Fighting Adell 1 1 2 2.0 0 2 Duerson 9 1·11 2 1 0 
Irish.Before that never-to-be-forgotten first day, perhaps you had 
NAVY OFFENSE

McGarry 5 1 2 2.0 1 2 Cichy 7 0-0 1 0 0 
1 never been on this campus before. Yet on that day in: late-August,
Gramke 8 2·17 0 0 0NOTRE DAME 6 348 1677 4.8 14 80 
when you first saw the band march across campus and felt the energy 

POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL
Lueken 6 3·15 0 0 0OPPONENTS 6 211 636 3.0 4 37 
emitting from this bunch-It'sthen that you truly feel included. 

Mishler 4 0-0 0 0 0 
TE 87 Curt Gainer 6-2 210 Sr. Bone 3 0-0 0 0 0 
This is the reason why the band plays such an important role at

LT 74 Keith Boring 6·4 255 Jr. Clasby 3 0-0 0 0 0 
Notre Dame,because SPIRIT is what makes the Irish fans a unique

LG 77 Stevll' Hooper 6·2 240 Jr. Mosley 2 0-0 0 0 0 
PASSING G NO CO PCT INT YDS TO 
c 75 Mike Dolan 6·2 219 Sr. 
group.Spirit is what separates this from every other college, and 

Kiel 6 70 29 .414 1 331 0 
Bell 1 0-0 0 0 0 
RG 57 Bob Teufel 6-1 240 Sr. 
without the band, this feeling would be sorely diminished. 

Courev 4 38 20 .526 4 261 2 
D. Boushka 1 0-0 0 0 0 RT 71 Frank McAllister 6-3 255 Sr. Hunter 6 1 1 1.000 0 31 0 
May the band play forever on! 

Moriarty 1 0-0 0 0 0 SE 86 Dave Dent 6·1 185 Sr. Holohan 6 1 0 0.000 0 0 0 
M. Boushka 1 0-0 0 0 0 QB 26 Fred Reitzel 6-3 210 Sr. 
J. Stone 6 1 0 0.000 0 0 0 
Holohan 1 0-0 0 0 0 FB . 30 Kevin Tolbert 5-9 208 Sr. 
Naylor 0 0-0 0 1 0 TB 40 Eddie Meyers 5·9 208 Jr.
NOTRE DAME 6 111 50 .450 6 623 2 
Brown 0 0·0 0 1 0 WB 82 Greg Papajohn 6·4 197 Jr. P 81 Lex Lauletta 6·2 207 Sr. 
OPPONENTS 6 157 75 .478 7 878 6 
NOTRE DAME 419 46-182 :!8 8 2 
KO 24 Steve Fehr 6·1 188 Jr. 



' ' ,Welch

OPPONENTS 604 34-89 12 6 0 
RECEIVING G NO YDS AVG TO LG 
NAVY DEFENSE 

•Includes solos and assists
Hunter 6 20 267 13.3 1 57 Holohan 6 10 172 17.2 1 31 
LE 38 Ken Fancher 6·2 202 So. 
(continued from page 9)

INT. RETURNS NO YDS AVG TO LG LT 78 Chris Garner 6·4 250 Jr.
Masztak 3 6 76 12.7 0 28 Vahr 5 4 62 15.5 0 24 RT 67 Paul Soares 6·4 238 So.
Gibbons 2 55 27.5 1 53 
Welch "and I used to love to watch them on TV.

Sweeney 6 4 21 5.2 0 9 RE 84 Mike Rouser 6·1 208 Jr.
Krimm 1 49 49.0 1 49
J. Stone 6 2 19 9.5 0 10 LB 69 Ted Dumbauld 6·1 210 Sr. "Butr'don't consider myself aNotre Dame fan anymore. I don't hate 
Duerson 1 21 21.0 0 21Carter 3 2 12 6.0 0 9 
MG 54 Terry Huxel 6·0 230 Sr. them; I just consider them another opponenet, buta special
Masini 1 6 6.0 0 6
Buchanan 6 2 -6 -3.0 0 0 
LB 63 Mike Kronzer 6-1 227 Sr.
Zavagnin 1 6 6.0 0 6 opponent to me" · NOTRE DAME 6 50 623 12.5 2 57 LC B 4 7 Elliott Reagans 5·10 172 Jr.
Desiato 1.0 0 1 The Middies haven't beaten the Irish since 1963 (35-14 in Notre 
OPPONENTS 6 75 878 11.7 6 45 RCB 31 Jon Ross 5·9 182 Jr. 
Dame Stadium), a year when Navy posted a 9-1 record and appeared

NOTRE DAME 7 138 19.7 2 53 SS 14 Jeff Shoemake 6-1 191 So. OPPONENTS 5 26 5.2 0 20 
FS 34 Chris Boblit 6·1 183 Sr. in the Cotton Bowl, where they were 28-6losers to Texas. "We want PUNTING G NO YDS AVG LGr-----------------------------~----------------------------~ 
everyone to beatNotreDame," Welch said. "SinceI've beenat Navy, 
we haven't beaten syracuse and Notre Dame. Syracuse really doesn't

Kiel 6 29 1154 39.8 69 
matter too much. But beating Notre Dame is very important to us."

NOTREDAME 6 29 1154 39.8 69 
OPPONENTS 6 40 1534 38.3 60 
So far in 1980, Navy is 5-2, coming off a stunning 24-10 upset of Washington last week in Seattle. For a while, the Middies had the

.Vehr
• 
' ' nation's number one overall defense. In fact they didn't allow their 
PUNT RETURNS NO YDS AVG TO LG 
first touchdown until the fifth week of the season. But a dis­

Duerson 12 81 6.7 0 21 . (continuedfrom page j 1) 
appointi):lg 6-3 loss to Virginia and an embarrassing 21-20 loss to the

Krimm 8 82 7.7 0 19.' Toran 2 19 9.5 0 11 
Air Force have put a damper on Navy's otherwise excellent season 

f; • 
Gibbons 
Dame was a ter our 27-25 loss tO' USC when I was a sophomore. That's
1 1 1.0 0 1 , 
And, as has been the case for past Navy squads, injuries have zavagnin o o o.o 1 o 
when I really got a taste ofwhat Notre Dame football was all about," decimated the Middies, especially the offensive line. No less than six 
1-------------­
he recalls with emotion. "I came in the locker room after the loss, and offensive linemen, including Welch himself, have suffered serious 
~~;~:::T~E ~! ~:~ ~:~ ~ ~~ 
saw the seniors and all the coaches breaking down-that had more of injuries ofsome sort this season. Welch, after playing the opening aneffecton me than anything else,seeing howmuch thateffort meant 
five games with a cast protecting a broken hand, will miss tomorrow's to them. Now, as a senior, I can understand their feelings. I know battle and is out for the season because ofcomplication arising from 
KICKOFF RETURNS NO YDS AVG TO LG 
what they went through for four years. I know what a loss like thatcan off-season minor knee surgery. 
J. Stone 9 210 23.3 0 49) do to a team." 
The Welch family will be in Giants Stadium tomorrow anyway, 

Barber 8 144 24.0 0 41 
"Nick's a total team player," Boulac concludes. "Whether he starts cheeringagainsttheirAlmaMaterforaday. But, even thoughRickJr NOTRE DAME 15 354 23.6 0 49 or not, he wants to be in there, on the offense or on the specialty is a senior this year, this will not be the last time the Welches are anti OPPONENTS 28 500 17.9 0 87 teams. The players have a lot of respect for someone like Nick who ND. You see, their youngest son, Bobby, is a freshman offensive works so hard and wants to play so much." 
tackle for Army, a Notre Dame opponent in 1983. 


Grid Picks 
1980 




Paul M11llaney ~'J.ichael Ortman Kelly Sullivan Btl! Marquard Gary GraJJey 
Editor-in-Chief Jlssoc. Sports Editor Women's Sp. Editor Sports Wrtter Sports Writer 
50-25, .667 51-24, .680 54-21, .720 53-22, .707 55·20, .733 






North Carolina at Oklahoma Sooners by 6 Heels by 10 Sooners by 7 Sooners by 9 Sooners by 17 Sooners by 1 0 Sooners by 3 Heels by 14 
South Carolina at Georgia Cocks by 1 Dogs by 5 Cocks by 3 Dogs by 5 Dogs by 6 Dogs by 6 Dogs by 6 Dogs by, 10 Cocks by 1 
Missouri at Nebraska Huskers by 5 Huskers by 3 Huskers by 7 Huskers by 6 Tigers by 2 Huskers by 4 Huskers by 5 Huskers by 7 Huskers by 6 
Ohio State at Michigan State Bucks by 12 Bucks by 30 Bucks by 12 Bucks by 14 Bucks by 13 Bucks by 26 Bucks by 17 Bucks by 17 Bucks by 16 
UCLA at Arizona Bruins by 17 Bruins by 12 Bruins by 14 Bruins by 1 Bruins by 14 Bruins by 17 Bruins by 12 Bruins by 20 Bruins by 9 
Alabama at Mississippi State Tide by 16 Tide by 15 Dogs by 1 Tide by 9 Tide by 25 Tide by 20 Tide by 7 Tide by 13 Tide by 10 
Michigan at Indiana Hoosiers by 1 Wolves by 5 ~loosiers by 1 Wolves by 4 Wolves by 7 Hoosiers by 2 Wolves by 8 Wolves by 3 Wolves by 3 
Miami, Fla. at Penn State Lions by 13 Lions by 3
Lions by 7 Lions by 10 Lions by 8 Lions by 7 Lions by 6 Lions by 6 Lions by 7 Trojans by 20 Trojans by 17 Trojans by 13 Trojans by 17 Trojans by 24 Trojans by 14 Trojans by 10 Trojans by 24
California at Southern Cal Trojans by 14 San Jose State at Baylor Bears by 20 Blears by 10 Bears by 7 Bears by 10 Bears by 10
Bears by 9 Bears by 11 Bears by 13 Bears by 10 Texas at Texas Tech Horns by 18 Horns by 6 Horns by 14 Horns by 16
Horns 'by 16 ~lorns by 15 Horns by 18 Horns by 13 Horns by 12 Tulsa at Florida State Seminoles by 8 Seminoles by 14 Seminoles by 12 Seminoles by 12
Seminoles by 24 Seminoles by 9 Seminoles by 29 Seminoles by 10 Seminoles by 14 Yale at Dartmouth Dogs by 2 Dogs by 3 Big Green by 3 Dogs by 5 Big Green by 2 Dogs by 10
Dogs by 9 Dogs by 7 Dogs by 4 

West Virginia at Virginia Tech Gobblers by 6 Gobblers by 8 Mountaineers by 1 Gobblers by 9
Gobblers by 3 Gobblers by 1 0 Gobblers by 5 Mountaineers by 1 Mountaineers by 3 Notre Dame vs. Navy Irish by 9 Irish by 10 Irish by 17 Irish by 11
Irish by 11 Irish by 19 Irish by 12 Irish by 1 Irish by 11 
~ ~ ----~~------­



Editorials 
Don't vote? hen don 't complain 
College students today are characterized in the public mind 
by both their apathy and lethargy. Students are no longer interested in many of the social and political concerns which dominated American campuses in the Sixties and early Seventies. Instead, the popular theory goes, students are "into their books" and have found a new seriousness of purpose towards their future careers. 
In this editorial, you will not be presented with reams of statistics illustrating what percentage of registered Americans vote and of that number which few actually go to the polls. Neither will you be reminded that most nations in the world today do not extend the right to vote to their people. What you are being told is that if you don't vote, then you shouldn't complain. 
In a democracy such as ours, the people are the sovereign. As such they, and they alone, take the responsiblity for both their society's achievements and shortcomings. If you walk around campus today and listen in on a conversation which touches on politics the tone ofthe dialogue eventually takes an apathetic or "don't give a damn" turn. Yet ask the members of the conversation what they are doing to alleviate or to eradicate the situation and they just look at you in exasperation. 
Tuesday's opportunity for you to cast your ballot is a small, but subtly significant chance to begin to make some change. There are no Abraham Lincolns or ThomasJeffersons running this year but their is definitely a candidate for everyone no matter how obscure or popular their political taste. 
And let us not forget the message power of a vote. You will not transmit any message by joining the masses who sit at home this Tuesday. But ifyou do decide to stay home on election day, keep silent when you consider your plight. 
Lust and marriage . .. 
An Buchwald 
WASHINGTON--I think I have a problem. Pope ] ohn Paul II has just offered a new, sweeping definition of adultery. He said, ''Adultery in your heart is not only when you look with concupiscence (stron~ sexual desire) at a woman who is not rour wife, but also lfyou look in tha same manner at your w1fe...The husband must not use his wife, or her femininity to fulfill his instinctive desire," the Pope said. "Concupiscence diminishes the richness of the perennial attraction of persons for interpersonal commu­
continued on page 14 
The following is a true story. Some ofthe names tave been changed to protect the politically innocent. 
One week ago today, an absentee ballot from the state of Pennsylvania arrived in my mailbox. I had dreaded its arrival. 

r=========================== I then went up to my room, locked the door, and did 

Ihlnesbury 
IA/f'l?e UP NeAR THe V!Sl/AL. Cf)f{[E)( 
NJW, THATPAKTOF7He8RAIN 
~181& FOR PRlJCESS!N6 t 5TIMUU /?E.CE/V£31) R?0M GOV­
INSTlf.AIJ CY t.J:a<!AG FOf?I,(JtW) 
7HWX81 GE.IlR EYES, /?Eiii4N 1'3 ONlY AIJI.£ 7J sec~ 7HI'()()6H A I?OSE-t:rJLUl£lJ MIST. 
by Garry Trudeau 
UNHAPPILY, A~~ OISOR//f3R. IAJ/TH!N 7H/3 aJI<TEX !T5tiF HAS RAGUeJ 7Hli C4NOI­
!J,117e's VISION RJR Y&4R5 •. 
Friday, October 31, 1980-page 13 


'I voted for Jimmy Carter:' A true Confession 
Michael Onufrak 
• office. His campaign book is original and convincing. Clark appeals to history and offers everyone a chance to get in on the ground floor of what might be the political wave of the future. But his foreign policy is little more than isolationism and his defense policy is equally hollow. The rest ofhis "hands off' approach to government intrigued me enough to give his party a 


Which brings me to Reagan. My first contact with Reagan came when, in my youth,l first listened to the soundtrack of the film Woodstock. I recall that just before Joan Baez began an anti-draft duet entitled He's a Drugstore Truck Drivin' Man, her partner dedicated the song to the then governor ofCalifornia, "Ronald Reaguns." Who is this man I asked back then? Well, it has taken about ten years, but I have found out. Ronald Reagan is a clever, political opportunist. He has switched from the Democratic party to the GOP when some thought Republicanism was coming back in style, he named an erratic liberal Senator as his running-mate in a desperate attempt to defeat Gerald Ford in 1976, and this year he is playing right into the hands of the discontents of big business and the fanatics of the right. 
But political opportunism aside, Reagan is also scary because many people who want to elect him really don't want him. They want those who surround him, men like Jack Kemp and Alan Greenspan and other cronies of former Presidents Nixon and Ford. They perceive Reagan as a docile Chairman of the Board type of leader who will be content to sit back and let his advisers and cabinet run the country. So what happens when Reagan has to sit down and barter with world leaders? What happens when two or more of these advisers disagree and somebody has to decide which is best? This country learned in the Watergate years what can happen when a president gives his cabinet and advisers a free rein. Apparently many people are willing to take the chance that it could happen again. 
So I voted for Carter; or rather I voted against Reagan. I am not overly optimistic that Carter will right all his wrongs in a second administration, but I'm willing to bet that the country would be no worse than it would be under Reagan and his band of conser­vatives. But if Reagan does win, I'll at least have a lot to write about. 

Boldly, without hesitation, I ripped the envelope apart. scanned the enclosed instructions, and im­passionately made my X in the box next to the name of our incumbent president, Jimmy Carter. Before I could change my mind. I placed the ballot in another envelope, addressed it, and returned it to its mailbox. 
penance. 
I have not been satisfied with the presidency of Jimmy Carter. I think his foreign policy, influenced by the erratic, wild-eyed advice of Zbigniew Brzezinski, has been a disaster. Under his adminis­tration inflation has run rampant, unemployment has continued to be troublesome, and productivity has reached a new low. His conduct during the recent campaign has been deplorable; first he hid behind the hostages, then he refused to debate John Anderson placing political expediency above the good of the country. He has not only contributed to, but possibly has given impetus to the much-publicized ''crisis of confidence." 
Why then did I vote for him? Fear. I fear Ronald Reagan. 
I would have liked to have voted for John Anderson. But just as the press created his candidacy, so has the press destroyed it. Were it not for the way the press seized on the freshness of Anderson's approach and consequently gave him exposure out of proportion to what he really deserved, he would have died a slow political death way back in New Hampshire or somewhere. His recent inability to , secure sufficient federal funds or even bank loans for ; his campaign merely was the first step toward his I destruction, which the press has completed for him 
through their mysterious polls. Call it the power ofthe press. 
I would have liked to havt: voted for Ed Clark. But Clark is in the business of founding a political party, not making an honest run for the nation's highest 
Michael Onufrak is a senior majoring in English and classics. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief .......... Paul Mullaney Managing Editor ............. Mark Rust Editorials Editor ......... Mike Onufrak Senior Copy Editor .. ....... Lynne Daley Executive News Editor .... Tom Jackman News Editor . ............. Pam Degnan SMC Executive Editor .... Margie Brassil SMC News Editor .. ....... Mary Leavitt 
Sports Editor ............ Beth Huffman Features Editor . .......... Molly Woulfe Photo Editor .............. .John Macor 
Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges Controller................... .Jim Rudd Advertising Manager . ......... Mark Ellis Circulation Manager....... Beth Hackett Production Manager . . . . . McGrath 


P"'-------------------------~--~-­
r The Observer Friday, October 31, 1980 -page 14 
Liberalism in America not dead yet 
~-~ 
THE Gipper is back in the Revi'ew, calls for a return to limelight at Notre Dame in the ' greatness by electing the refor­person of Ronald Reagan, the med New Dealer Ito the man who played the part in the presidency. movie, "Knute Rockne, All: Mary Rice inScho/asticdec­American" The October issue lares that it is time to halt "the of Scholasti'c, which I originally continuation of the bankrupt mistook as The Nahonal brand of philosphies which 
"a. dy~amic program for McGovern appealed to in their revttaltzmg the economy in Scholasti'c. Dan Moore feels 
that the rightward shift is the James C. Murphy i's president reason for optimism; he also ofthe ND!SMC Yor~•g Democ-
It-----=4~~~~~~~~---:;~~~~~~~~~~~:;.~=~=-=-=--:-:::=-:-:-~:::--.:._ral.=:s:.:..
.!_J_________1

·o;. 
James C. Murphy 

have plagued this nation.•• ~~ that "John Anderson· unsuccessful campaigns." If Prof. Ed Murphy refers to the inhents the same left that John Anderson is a liberal Republican tax cut scheme as Gene McCanhy and George why is his career voting by th~ 

The election that I had hoped would never come is now suddenly and unavoidably upon us, and it is time to selectone ofthe more crucial presidents of the last thirty years. With the current aura of disorientation paralyzing the country in several areas, the next president is going to have a large stake in detennining the scope, vision, and future ofthe country. This campaign has meandered along without any candidate taking a finn lead, or without even any finn constituencies taking shape. So now it is four days before the election and it is still too close to call. There has been enough joking (and whining) about the men that we have to choose from. There has been enough mud-slinging by factions on every side. All ofthatdid not really accomplish anything, and as Mr. Reagan is fond ofsaying, the time is now. It is time to face up to the issues. 
The choice essentially comes down to two men, Ronald Reagan and Jimmy Carter. At the risk ofincurring the wrath ofthe National Unity Campaign, the Libertarians, the Citizens' Party, and the various Communist and Socialist aggregations, any other vote is essentially sidestepping the issue. I am very much for change, and I think the ramifications ofthis election will inspire some, but I tend to think that this election is much too important to encourage protest votes. Cartei: versus Reagan is not much ofa choice, but ifs the only cho~ce we have. I am not the blind liberal that I am sometimes accused of being, but I have to admit that the possibility ofa Reagan presidency scares me to death. In the reaction against Carter and the disaffection with his programs. we can't throw ourselves into a something that could be much worse. 
Yes. I am deeply opposed to Reagan. But I will stay away from the "'Bedtime for Bonzo" jokes, the jibes at his age, and intellectual screams about apprpaching fascism. I will do this even though I think that those three concerns should be enough to seriously hinder anyone from running for president, but they are not necessary right now, and it is much. much too late anyway. I will just concentrate on Reagan the man Does anyone really know him, or what he really has in mind for the country"? Have we been lulled to sleep by his favorable media image. the reports that he is just a hannless old man who means well? Until these and many other questions can be answered we won't know what we might be getting, and although it may be late, I have several questions of my own. 
While Reagan was governor ofCalifornia he did a reasonably good job. in some areas an outstanding job, but to paraphase an old Dem<><..Tat. California didn't have the bomb. Upon close examination ofthe Reagan administration in California, it is interesting to note how progressive the state actually was. This is at the base of my concern about Reagan, since he did things that either contradicted positions of his. or that he later vehemently opposed. Two blatant examples come to mind: Reagan's handling of the state university system, and his signing of the most liberal abortion law in the country. Reagan was loudly opposed to increases in the university budget, even going so far as to say .. the state should not subsidize intellectual curiosity." He constantly baited students during the antiwar years, and generally exhibited belligerent behavior toward the academic environment. Then he turned around and signed bills doubling the university budget. 
Wa/ton 

This is usually explained by compromise, and while I think that is a good sign, I wonder if all the histrionics were necessary. Or consider the abortion law; Reagan now says he was misled by proponentsofthe bill, and that a technicality allowed the lawtobe~ I amwillingto accept this explanation as the truth, but it only indicts Reagan in my eyes. Shouldn't he have been more aware of all the possible ramifications ofthe bill? Especially on an issue like abortion. Where were his much ballyhooed advisers? 
I could go on and on, but there is neither space nor need. This is my fundamental problem with Reagan; I don't think he has the depth and ability necessary to be president Supporters ofReagan often say that Reagan will have such good advisors that he will not need to be completely aware of"every little thing.'' But no matter how good the advice a president gets, he must beabletodeal with it independently. If he is reliant upon "experts" he will tend toward the bias ofthe experts. And though I hate to endorse a Cartercampaign commercial, it is true that sometimes the president has to make it on his own. Where will Reagan be when he can't toss off a glib one--liner to get some quick cheers. when he can't tell Russia and Iran to"goto heU becauseGod's on our side," when he h~ to deal.with those ··~ess monsters," the Chinese, to contain the Russian threat? Reagan is too smug, too quick to shoot from the hip, and too eagertoplease a crowd to have the future of Western civilization in his lap. His advisors are keeping him under wraps during the campaign, but will they continue toafter the election? This is a relevant concern, and I think it has been overlooked Reagan would be a great symbol, making Americans feel good about America and safe about the world, but what happens ifhe inadvertently gets us into WW III? When a guy confuses Pakistan and Afghanistan, or thinks the Soviet Union is ··behindalltheevilinthisworld" there is too much of a chance that he might 
With held nose, Carter for President 
• • . Lust 
continr~ed from page 13 

nion. Through such a reduction, the other person becomes 
the.mere object for satis~g a sexual need and touches the 
digt\ity of the person (wife)." 
In. other words, if you really want to have a good 
marnage, lust has to go. 
I don't have any problem with adultery per se, but I do with concupiscence. I guess some people are born with concupiscence and some people are not. 
I've never confessed this before to anyone, but I have concupiscence for my wife. Not just a little, but a lot. I can't look at her without ha~ this instunctive urge to do something about it. I know it d•minishes the richness ofour marriage, :md can cause great problems in our interper­sonal relations, but I can't help myself. I've tried taking cold s_howers, and reading the Congressional Record, but nothetng seems to help. What makes it worse is that she has concupiscence, too. 
So what's my problem? 
Americans for Democratic Action-29% and by the AFL­CIO 28 percent.
Such a statement by Mr. Moore illustrates the point of 
his article. When Anderson 
comes to represent the political left, it is not because he is consortins with Ted Kennedy. Rather it ts because the center of American politics, where Anderson was a short time ago, is not only drifting right, it is racing. 
As a result of this trend, many liberals are running scared;. they denounce their liberal ties adamantly. Their new slogan is;"It would be nice to be humane but we have to be realistic.'' With the middle class angry about in­flation and recession, talking about the needy is suicide. People are concerned about the effects of inflation on their purchasing _t>ower. People with no purchasmg power then become a secondary worry. 
Ronald Reagan would solve our economic anxieties by the Kemp-Roth tax plan and cuts in federal spendmg programs. This ftrst proposal would do very little for the poor and middle class families but a lot for the upper income brackets. The theory is that this would increase investment, thus producing jobs for the lower tncome groups. This used to be called the "trickle down app­
roach" now it is called, "a dynamic program for revital­izing the economy." Cutting federal social programs may help balance the budget(al­though with Reagans proposal for massive increases in mili­tary spending, this is highly unlikely), but it ignores the question of whether the social benefits from these J;>rograms might just outwetgh the benefits of a balanced budget. 
The country shifts rightward; liberals abandon their beliefs in an effort to be re-elected. Frank Church becomes ultra­hawk. The liberal party in New York and The New Republi'c endorses Anderson. Gene Me Carthy endorses Reagan. Jim­my backing, tries to outflank Reagan on the right to be re-elected. 
Never mind that the abuses of big business are at least as harmful as the shortcomimgs of big,overnment. Forget the cost o the Vietnam War and Opec oil. Forget the poor . They thteaten to wear us all down with their misery, tres­passing on the mental tran­quility of their majority . The new right proclaims there are no poor people in America. It appears ,sorry to say , that most liberals would rather switch than ftght. They have seen what happened to Ted Ken­nedy's campaign for the pres­idency. The new right rejoices that the last new dealer is vanquished. 
That is the way things look. This is not the way they have to be. The soul of liberalism, which says that government can and must help people achieve equal opportunity and indvidual digmty , is still intact. 
Liberals must devtse new ways to achieve their ideals, lest "bankrupt liberal philosophies," or as my friend Mary Rice puts it, be replaced 

Pope John Paul II. And don't ask me to go into the ~y tiring old, conservative Anthony Walton is editorials's regular Tuesday columnist. sordid detailsj tdeas. 


Features 
F 
October 31, 1980 -page 15 

Boris Karloff for President 
I 
Mark Ferron 
preppie type more in the center ot the room, stood in front of a TV · There's an old broken-down man­

sion atop a lonely dark hill near 
Washington D.C. Every election 
camera and rwisted his face into silly 
expressions. Gee, golly. .

year, around Halloween, strange things harpen there--frightening and Sudden!~, a trap door opened and unnatura things. Oh, I didn't be­I fell down toto a convoluted corridor lieve all those myths about ghosts or The walls were lined with a series of stories about supernatural occur­jack~· lanterns m~ze. Libyan sheiks ences in that old house. But I do scurne~ by, carrymg suitcases stuf­now. fed wtth new dollar bills. One 
One cold day, I walked through offered me a loan. Finally, at the end the rusty gate, past the naked trees of the corridor, I reached a small and up to the door of the house. As I ~arped door. It creaked open. In: knocked, bats flew in and out of the stde, all alone and with his back to belfry. Anguished moaning and dia­me, a slight, greying man sat bolical laughter ran out as I entered. playing a massive pipe organ eerie Once inside, I heard a voice not strains filling the room. Tii~ tune unlike that of Rod Seeling: was a medley of "Hail to the Chief'
wanting to shake my hand, ptn a someoody named Pat J earling a 
"Dixie" and "Promises, Promises':_

button on my lapel and slap a sticker group ofstudents in a chorus of' 'On
There is a fifth dimension beyond on my bumper. Some even wanted to Abruptly the music stopped. It was
Wisconsin." I hurried out the door.
that which is known to man. It is a time for the final campa1gn speech. 
kiss my babv. After a frantic search I found
dimension as vast as space and as This Southerfl Phantom at the organ myself before a door with a big gold timeless as infinity. It is the middle Finally at the top of the stairs, I grabbed a bucket of mud and slowlystar with the name "Bonzo" on it.
ground between light and shadow, reached the first room. A mixture of turned to me, grin:ting gruesomely.
Curious, though · frighten•. :d, I en­
between science and superstition woeful moaning and college cheers In terror I turned and ran and dido' l
tered. On the far risht of the room,and it lies berween the pit of man's emanated from behind the door. 
stop running until I was miles fromhunched over a boihng cauldron wasfears and the summit of his know­Within, tnere sat an ansry bespec­Washington.

a 70 year-old man with a 20ledge. It is an area known as the tacled man with ~reat white hair who So even if you don't believe inyear-old's hair. He occasionallyTwilight Zone of the 1980 Election. groaned about mflation, conserva­ghosts, the Bermuda triangle or thestirred the huge pot, fausing totion and the League of Women boogieman, take my work for it: Themumble words like ' tax cut,''Reluctantly, I wandered through Voters. On the floor next to him was Presidential voting booth can be a"government spending" and "Su­the dark hallways of the mansion. a Trick-or-Treat bag containing two chamber of horrors. Fortunately, weThe eyes of the campaign posters on Life Savers, a Tootsie-Roll and a pr.imc Military Commander-in­have to face it only once every fourthe walls followed me as I walked. note promising Federal matching Chief'' into it. I believe it was a years.
prepared speech. The other IZUY, aGhouls popped up everywhere, funds. On his other side stood 
REEL REVIEWS 
Extraordinary Performances in 'Ordinary People ' 
Ryan Ver Berkmoes 

Individuals prone to crying, sobbing,  is an unassuming milque-toast type  had a better opportuqity to insure tor  
and otherwise carrying on had better  whose Neville Chamberlain attitude  himself a long, solid career.  
arm themselves with numerous  on life leaves him trying to appease and  Particularly good are his scenes with  
hankies before they see "Ordinary  placate all around him. His wife (Mary  his psychiatrist. Watch all the  



People." An overall level of Tyler Moore) is by all outward principals pick up Oscar nominlltions. 
excellence, uncommon to recent appearances even less interestin~. spend two hours enraptured, and leave 
Overall, "Ordinary People" is the filmdom, helps the movie transcend Their kid is a droll fellow, despite some best film yet this yeard highly the theatre m_?ved by the-experience­the sea of mediocrity and become a unique quirks. this is what entertainment is allabout. ,
recommend it to anyone. Expect to 
truly moving-experience. 
What makes this humdrum The film has received a lot ofcopy in collection work is Alvin Sargent's the press in recent months, owing to screenplay, Redford's direction, andthe fact that the director is a rookie some extraordinary performances. 
named Robert Redford. Judging from 
Almost subconsciously, the audience 
'Molly 's Song ' Debutshis results, perhaps he should have 
is made privy to the characters' innergiven up on acting long ago. 
lives. One soon feels that he really knows those people on the screen
"0rdinary People" is the first serious intimately. The skill the creators used look by Hollywood at that modern 
in 0 'Laughlin

in achieving this is exemplified by the soda-phenomenon: suburbia. The fact that you can't really put yoursetting is Lake Forest, Illinois, an 
thumb on anv one technique used. 
upper-middle-class suburb of Chicago Anne Slowey that's so WASPy you can almost hear The storyline is not complex, for it 
I tis not easy being a woman. Perhaps Molly's explanation of herself. It flows the buzz. essentially follows the lives ofa family 
it is more difficuft trying to understand with humor, sadness, and hope,
It's the kind of neighborhood where after the tragic loss of a son and them-from both sides of the coin. exploring the intricate patterns of the women play bridge, the overweight brother. The film appeals to that base 
Women-are said to have that special womanhood. 
jog in an effort to postpone their first instinct most humans won't admit to insight which enhances their sensitiv­Molly's lifestyle is full of obstacles, coronaries and the kids wear expensive but reveal frequently-the urge to ity. But that offers no explanation for most of which are men. Audiences will 
down jackets, use costly drugs, and gossip and snoop. To many viewers, women's actions, especially when be able to see the gaiety of independ­complain about how bored they are. seeing the film must be like peeking in trying to understand their relation­ance, falsity of words, and superficial Thus the slice of life presented is one on their neighbors. ships with men. states of the relationships encompas­most movie-goers can relate to in one The movie is a good vehicle for the sing her life. Yet from beneat, a
James Joyce explores the insides of unique, touching sense of hopeway or another. stars to show their talents. Donald relationships of men and women surfaces.
Rather than take the course of Sutherland plays a frazzled fellow so within Ulysses. Notre Dame junior Molly's Song promises to enrichprevious suburban movies (scenes of well, one ends up empathizing with his Doug Kreitzberg presents a special everyone's understanding ofJoyce'swife-swapping and brainless indecisiveness. insight to this theme with Molly's Song, insight on subjects ranging fromhousewives with waxy yellow buildup), Mary Tyler Moore plays the flip side an adaption ofMolly's soliloquy at thf religious queries, sensual pleasures, sothe film, true to its name, is the story of to her role as the squealy Laura Petri of end of Ulysesses. Performances are sincerity, and much more. Molly'ssome "typical" folks. The settirig is years ago. Her performance is nothing tonight and Sunday, Nov. 2, at 8:30 soliloquy is a monumental part ofmerely a' subtle background providing short of superb as it slowly dawns ·on p.m. in Saint Mary's O'laughlin Ulysses and Kreitzberg's Molly's Songa familiar point of reference. the audience what sort of person she Auditorium. 
perhaps a monumental. oerspective

really is. Molly is portrayed by Mary Link 
Joyce.

That the movie is interesting at all is 
under the direction of Kreitz berg in a
Judd Hirsch makes out like a bandit, 
the biggest factor in its excellence. The A. Slowey isa History/Theatre major
style similiar to that ofJoyce's writing. 
since he is in at least 70 percent of the
central characters are a mundane 
The production is a portrayal of at Notre Dame.
scenes. This young actor couidn't have 
bunch. The father(Donald Sutherland) 

Oh, Lord, the year is dying; the ground is beginning to be covered with leaves, and I am powerless to hold back the winter. Sometimes I wonder if I prayed on my knees-ifall the world, turning holy, prayed on its knees-if You could be convinced to maintain the glory of the season until the danger of winter has passed, so that when the leaves have all left the trees, the earth could move swiftly into the sweet burgeonings ofApril? Naturally not, of course, because we couldn't have a springtime without a winter, or could we? I mean You, being Omnipotent and All, co'tlld make the arrangements, couldn't you, ifall the world prayed on its knees, and turned holy, and really needed to have one year without a winter? 
If winter is a nt..:essary season;could we be spared a war? You are the breath of love in the world, making all other loves possible, and I am part of the wickedness; but do we always deserve wars? Wars are carried on by people; but are they inevitable, like seasons? Do you ever think: "I see tears on the faces ofJewish children in the camps. I hear the screams of soldiers suffering in the jungle. Holy nuns are screaming as the bombs fall on German cities. But the Pope, on his knees, is praying; the rabbis in their synagogues are praying; wives and fTK)thers are lighting candles at shrines and temples in the East and West. Old men with Bibles in their hands stretch out their arms to heaven, asking for mercy for the nations. I, the 
Lord their God, answering them, will INTERRUPT their wars with my 
peace"? 
Do You, Lord, interrupt wars, or do You let armies roll on to the ultimate horror that their bombs and planes can achieve? Was a single life spared be­cause we had peace Masses on the quads during Vietnam, or was the war shortened a single day because stu­dents burned their draft cards as an act of discipleship to the Teacher who taught them peace? 
A simple sign could have told us, Lord: a single peace dove in the cannon's mouth; a night flight of angels over a battlefield, or Octdber II unconsumed by its own fire as the bushes burned on ten thousand hill­sides until You blew out their flames as though they were candles identifying the earth as holy ground. 
Oh, it is cheelcy for me to be giving my Lord advice, as though He were a caterer, and I were a Jewish mother ordering a wedding feast: God runs a quiet show, like a prosperous New England family raised on the Protes­tant ethic. He's too private to interrupt a war in any kind of way in which he might seem to be SHOWING OFF. Think of the criticism, think of the ­bitterness, if Walter Cronkite were to report to the nation: "Almighty God stopped the fighting in Northern Ireland today when a Poor Clare nun from Galway slew Ian Paisley, the Protestant demagogue, with a sling­shot made from the jawbone ofan ass. 
In the meantime, the fighting con­
tinued between Iran anci Iraq, and more Russian tanks moved into Afghanistan. At the Suez Canal, bit­
terness mounted between Egypt and 
Israel when Prime Minister Begin 
tweaked the nose of President Sadat. The Pope, briefed in advance by the Blessed Virgin, explained that heaven, 
in wartime, mostly favors Roman Catholic causes, and the prayers of Jews and Moslems are generally re­garded up there as forms of ethnic 
whining." If believers have problems 
have problems understanding the Lord 
Who deals with us in quiet inter­
ventions, they would be overwhelmed 
by a Wonder Worker Who makes a 
show business out of grace, playing 
favorites in Polish neighborhoods. 
Do you even notice, Lord, when folks are praying? Must faith always be a game in which believers get treated like beach bums in an expensive restaurant, trying to catch the eye of the maitre d'? As an ordained pro­fessional, I represent a hurting, grieving, tired and sometimes dying .:::ommunity; You could acknowledge me once in a while, Lord, as a professional courtesty. I get tired of beating on Your ear, as though You were a coffee machine I am trying to coax into service with my fists. 
Some days, I admire the village agnostic as the most honest man in town. I hear the political candidates say: "I'm a born-again Christian. God is my best Friend and my Guide. I walk 
withHim every step of the way." I look 
around to see who they're talking 
about. 
Rev.-Robert Griffin 
"IfHe's that much ofan influence," I 
want to declare, "the Congress should 
investigate him like Billy Carter. I'D 
LIKE TO TAKE A LOOK AT THE 
EVIDENCE." Th preacher says to the 
politician: "There is no evideru:e. You 
are making up stories." 
The hopelessness that comes as 
handmaid to a final despair is full of 
surprises. You expect a religious 
experience to come like fire, and it 
arrives as ice. You want God to hug 
you with the colors of the season, and 
His miracle belongs to the indifferent 
gloom of winter. 
Oh, Lord doubt could be easier if it 
were undisturbed by faith. 
Why must I hope that You will raise up dust? Why should I ever expect that You will be busy in graveyards when You were indolent in death camps? 
A cold wind blows dead leaves down the quad. In an hour,or a week, it will snow. I, protesting the universal defeat oflife and breath, insist to the Lord: "It cannot end like this." 
The leaves, swirling at my feet, invite rne to dance. I, refusing to be a partner to the dead, dumb things grasp at the merest straw: "Maybe sadness, like beauty, is in the eye of the beholder?" For all I know maybe the leaves wait all summer for the season when they can dance with the wind. Maybe so, but it's silly to think so. 
Some kinds of faith, Lord, are everlastingly dumb. A faith that has no doubt is highly imperfect. The evi­dence is lacking for a perfect faith. 

SUPresents Country Rock jam 
John Hall and Vassar Clements are featured in Saturday's Country Rock Jam, 5:30-1 a.m. in Stepan Center 

The Observer 
'Friday, October 31, 1980 -page 17 


The Observer_ 
Weekend 
======= 
Campus 
MolaritY 
friday october 31, 1980 

' YEAH CO.!>TU/4£-1-JIT/1
• 5:15 p.m. -mass and 
TalloHT B£1N6! HALLDWeEA/ 
supper at bulla shed. 
AND ToMfJfZIF?oW NIGtHT.S 
B£AVX-ARf5 BAL-L ,IT'5
•7,9,11 p.m. -movie, 
IH£ WEEKEND ID l:>R£55
"magic" starring ann-mar­
UP AND G,D WIL'b 

. garet and anthony hopkins, engineering auditorium, $1. 
es:OO p.m. play, "ultimates" an evening of samuel beckett, moreau hall little theatre (smc), free. 
•8:30 p.m. play, 
· "molly's song" by james joyce, o'laughlin auditorium (smc). 

• 9:00 p.m. -barry 
p
stevens, nazz, free admis­
ea.tl.Uts 
sion. 
•10:30 p.m. -rick 
SO FAR Ti-115 ~EAR
walters, nazz, free admis-
I'VE GOTTEN TWENT'<'
sion. 
1

' DMINU5ES''IN A ROW..
saturday november 1, 1980 
• 
7,9,11 p.m. -movie, "magic" starring ann-mar­garet and anthony hopkins, engineering auditorium, $1. 

• 
8:00 p.m. play, "ultimates" an evening of &1.muel beckett, moreau hall little theatre (smc), free admission. 


ACROSS 24 AUght 48 Grips 13 Pulp
•9:00 p.m. -magic 
1 Kind of 25 CCJomposers' 50 Portray 18 Plumbing with mark davis and dan 
moss org. 53 Royal defect 5 Not now 28 Power headdress 22 lpso­
brahier on the guitar, nazz, 
10 Furniture source: 55 Minimal 23 So·so
free admission. 
designer abbr. 56 "Sweetheart 24 Limerick 14 Capri or 30 Wt)rk unit of Sigma-" specialist
•11:00 p.m. -nd jazz 
Man 33 Sprite 59 The moon 25 TheBig­
combo, "forecast," free 
15 Sphere of 34 N8itive of 60 Healing 26 Finch admission. 
combat Zagreb ointment 27 Skull's 16 Andrews 35 Lace 62 Lincoln and partner
sunday november 2, 1980 
of movies 36 Correspon· Burrows 29 Timber 
•1:00 p.m. club 
17 Road menace dlngly 63 Riverof wolf meeting, nd chess club, 
19 Table 39 Platitude France 31 Oneofthe scraps 41 Fltlur-de·-64 Earthy media
lafortune rathskellar. 
20 Sailor's 42 Use a deposit 32 Gather 
•4:00 p.m. -mini­
assent riata 65 Network 34 Where to 
21 Does a 44 Inter -66 Weeds find a sala farm job 45 Letters 67 City on the 37 Straighten
workshop on world trade 
with vegetarian meal, regina 
22 Sassy 46 What "vidl" Hudson 38 Russian
south basement (smc), all 
23 Degree means news agency
welcome. 
or aid 47 Fire crime DOWN 40 Fair 1 Commune on 43 More sugary 
•6:30, 9:15 p.m. ­
the Amo 47 Arthritis

movie, "hamlet" starring 
2 Spot drug

Lawrence Olivier, engineer­
3 Nautical 49 Almost 

term submerged 4 Golfer's 51 Mother-of· 
ing auditorium, $1 
• 6:45 p.m. -lila gen­
item pearl 

5 Stevedore 52 Residue 6 Regions 53 Laconic one 
eral meeting, library lounge. 
• 7:45 p.m. -recital, 
7 Devil, at 54 Yokel 

times 55 Singer Kirk 8 Slaughter 56 Despot 
robert acton -organist, 
sacred heart church. 
of baseball 57 Relative of 
•8:30 p.m. play, 
9 Fled a submarine 

1 10 Decorate 58 In a poor 11 Risk fashion

"molly's song" by james 
joyce, o'laughlin auditorium 
takers 60 Clever one 
(smc). 
10/31/Bo 12 Pismires 61 Sum: abbr. 
S.U. VAN LINE:S is running weekend:s again 
Restaurant Discounts offered on the route: 
(with Student 10) Pizza Hut (10 %) VIlla Capri (10 %) Brown's Chicken (10 %) Village Inn Pizza (10 %) Ponderosa (10 %) Shangi Hi (10 %) 
Eddie's (10 %) and Movie Theaters on the route offer discount tickets: 
Plitt (Town & Country)  $2.25  
Forum  $1.75  
_  University Park  $2.25  

-available through the Ticket Office, 2nd Floor LaFortune 
Ride VAN LINES: $1.00/semester-ticket office Services Commission 
Friday, October 31, 1980·-page 18 
Michael Molinelli 

Charles M. Schulz  
I DON'T KNOW WHAT TO DO...  MA'<6E I SHOULD STOP 601N6 FOR T~E LON6 BALL  

The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 
The Amos Tuck School of Business Administration 
Dartmouth College • Hanover, N.H. 
Men and women seeking 
EDUCATION FOR MANAGEMENT 
are invited to discuss the 
TUCK MBA 
Monday, November 3, 1980 Contact Placement Office Room 213, Administratio11 Building 283-8342 for an appointment 


~j)()1"tscl)==,..=~=·:e~~~========F===================IF=ri=da=y=,=O=ct=ob=e=r=3=1,=1=9=80=-==pa=g=e~l9
by Tht' Ohsert'l'r ,1nd The A.rrnaaled Prl'll 
Off-campus athletes are reminded that the deadline for submitting rosters for interhall basketball and hockey is November 4. Those interested in hockey should sign the roster in the Non-Varsity Athletic Office (C2) of the ACC, or call Mike Kennedy at 2'3-5939. Those intereste8 in basketball should organize their rosters and then contact Off­Campus Sports Commissioner Tom Disser at 277-8730 by November 3 so that fees can be settled and rosters finalized. All athletes are reminded that proof of insurance is required. 
Ril!h t tO Lifewill sponsor a jog-a-thon on Sunday, November 2 at the Notre Dame Athletic and Convocation Center. Those interested in participating may sign up in LaFortune, the Tom Dooley Center, 256 Alumni, 110 Holy Corss (ND), 215 Breen Phillips, 458 LeMans, or 332 Holy Cross (SMC). The jog-a-thon will be held on the indoor track from 
1:30 to 5 p.m. For further information call Tim (1157) or Bill (8127). 
The Water PoloClub will hold a meeting at the Rockne swimming pool tomorrow at 11 a.m. All members are strongly encouraged to attend. Team pictures will be taken and winter training plans discussed. For more information call Mike Corbisero at 8987. 
Co-ree volleyball captains that did not attend the meeting on Wednesday must pick up the schedule and rules in the Interhall Office by today. The first round of play begins Sunday, November 2. 
, , 
(continued from page 20) 
school years in Hou~ton, Tex., 
and their hard work and talent 
boosted the Irish to a respectable 
showing in the Mideast Con­
ference this fall. The brothers 
played together on a state cham­
pionship team in high school, 
which Dave sees as one of the 
highlights of his life. · "It was just great for us being 
on a championship team at the 
same time," he reflects. 
Dave is a senior majoring in 
chemical enginneering and 
planning on attending graduate 
school next year at (where did 
Dad go wrong?) the University of 
Texas. He has always placed 
academics first and says of his 
four years at Notre Dame, "They 
were a hell ofa lot ofhard work." 
Tom, on the other hand, was 
frustrated during his freshman 
year without water polo as an 
outlet. Playing this year has been 
a big lift though, and he has chosen to study pre-med. When speaking about coming to Notre Dame, he refers to the tradition. 
"My father and brother both went to school heresoljustsawit as the thing to do. Besides, the academics are very strong here, and I definitely wanted that." 
Of course, one cannnot help but wonder about the relation­ship between the two brothers of such unusual talent and deter­mination. 
Tom comments on this 're­lationship. "We've always spent a lot of time together over the years, and I think it has brought us closer together. It seems that we always get excited at the same time during games." 
Both began ,as swimmers at a young age and progressed through high school, and, as is not uncommon, they eventually justburned themselves out in the pool. The switch to water polo seemed a natural one. 
Dave notes, "I was just looking 
• • • Belles 

(continued from page 20) 
:eally outplayed Notre Dame but ended up losing. "With so many young }:'layers our development hasn t been easy. The important thing is that we have matured very fast. Ourstrongest point now is 
our new offense that we have just put in . We've switched from a five-three front offense to a four-two, and hopefully that will provide the difference this weekend. 
"We'll have to be as aggres­sive as we have been all season. In the past we have 
NBA all stars 
(AP) Russel and Red Auerbach, two of the key figures who 'helped the Boston Celtics win 11 championships in 13 years, were named yesterday as the greatest player and coach res­pectively, in the history of the National Basketball Association 
, Austgens 
for something else, and water polo offered me that. It's totally different than swimming be­cause you're on a team. You geta different feeling when you win, and lose, for that matter." 
Mike Corbisiero, the club president, could not be 'happier that the Austgens found water polo and eventually Notre Dame. They both started for the club as field players this fall, and Dave will be sorely missed next year.Nevertheless, the outlook remains optimistic as Tom re­turns,along with standouts John Smith and Pat McDivitt. 
Dave also provided much of the leadership for the young team as he was elected captain. It is here that the brothers prove they are not carbon copies of each other. While Dave provided leadership, Tom just laid back and played water polo. 
"I just goofed around too much to be considered a leader." Just like a younger brother. 
had trouble maintaining our composure at times, but I think we're well over that now. That's important since we'll be playing under so much pres­sure this weekend. 
"Our chance here are very good because we've beaten a lot of the teams that are here and some others we've only lost to nlltrowly. I guess Mar­ion College would be the team to beat. 
"It's important that we spend the time before the meet together so we can play to­gether as a team. We haven't really _Prepared any different, but thts is the culmination of our season so it is definitely different from any other ev­ent," ends Welch, the team's leading scorer. 
The Belles will not be com­manding a great deal of res­pecr·in terms of statistics. But tf desire is to be the determing factor this weekend in rich­mond, St. Mary's is the pro­hibitive favorite. 
Irish
e e e 

(continued from page 20) 
unheralded Monmouth College brought Notre Dame, what-Rich Hunter lated called, perhaps the "most humiliating" defeat in Irish annals. The 2-0 loss came on the heels, ironically, of the brilliant effort against ninth-ranked Penn State-a game which had worked wonders for Irish soccer credibility. 
Hunter could only pound his head against the wall. "I really doubt that Monmouth made two consecutive passes the whole game," he moaned. · 
The fourth year coach then rattled off the things he's been telling his teams for years. ''Notre Dame cannot be expect to beat teams because of the name Notre Dame," satd Hunter. "Everytime we go out on that field, the kids know it would make somebody else's season just to beat us. We made Monmouth's season and we made Seton Hall's season. 
"It's so disappointing," he added, "because we've thrown away at least three games this year (Monmouth, Marquette and Miami)-games we should have won.'' 
The Penn State, Indiana and St. Louis losses were expected, but the talent was there to win all the rest. That's what hurts the most. , 
"Sometimes it seems like we just play to the level of our competition," said goalie John Mdligan. "I don't think we're mentally ready to score goals," Rich Hunter said back in August. 
The untimeliest of injuries to forward Mai, fullback Jim Stein, and halfback Bill Murphy have stretched the Irish roster to the limit. 
Whatever the reasons, perhaps the team has made their pitch for exr:ellence in so short a time span, that their goals may have been too high. 
In four short years, the soccer program at Notre Dame, with its meager budget and slowly expanding facilities, has tried to shoot for the top. 
With little else to offer but a winning tradition and a win at all costs, Rich Hunter, his staffand players. hav~ trained year round, studied the game, attempted to recrutt wtthout the benefit of scholarships, and tried to kick it around with the soccer powers of the nation. 
They have come so far on so little, that to end their fourth season-one spr_inkled with glittering memories of th~ India~a, Ohio State, Xavter and Penn State matches-on a dtstressmg note,_ might not be a realistic attitude. 
"'To make it over 'the hump', beyond which lies Indiana Land, St. Louis Land and Penn State Land, the program needs money. The bottom line, sadly enough, is not the will to win, rather, 
the means to win. 
The team had made its case on the field, but its destiny is in the hands of the athletic department. The achievements of Rich Hunter and his players remain remarkable. 
All classd1ed ads mLJst be rece1vec1 by 4 45 p.m two davs pn•.H to the tssuP •n wh1ch the ad •s run. The Observer offtce wdl i'Cr:ept cl,bStfteds Munrtav throtJgh Fndav. 10:00 am to 5 00 p m All classtfteds I'TltJSt be

Classifieds pre·patd either tn 1-1erson or through the mdll 
LOST: Melcor calculator on 
CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE POSITION! 
KENWOOD KD-3070 TURNTABLE
Tuesday before break In front or 
Parl·llme poslllon promollng high WITH AT·13EA CARTRIDGE. RETAIL
[_N_OT_IC_E_S__Jj I PERSONALS I
Lafortune. If round please call COUNTRY ROCK JAM • FIVE bands
quality spring break beach trips on $300. YOURS FOR $140. ALSO
Kevin at 3578. lor $4.00. you'll never see a show or 
campus lor commission plus tree HONDO ELECTRIC GUITAR. RETAIL
OVERSEAS JOBS: Summer/year A PRICE like this agalnl Buy your
LOST light Brown english style travel. Call or wrlle for an appllca­
$230. YOURS FOR $100 OR BEST OFFER. cap. Great senllmental value. If llon. Summit Travel, Inc., Parkade CALL RICK # 1205 
rOUnd Europe, S. Amer., Australia, Halloween Isn't Halloween II you Hckell now at the Student Union 
Asia. All fields $500-$1200 monthly. haven't sold out. Give II a shot. Ticket office or In the dining halls 
Plaza, Columbia, Mo., 65201, (800) 
Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free round, please call 3527. Wed-Fri. Also available at River City 
325·0439. HAPPY BIRTHDAY DAN 'PUSH CUSH'
Into. Wrlle: UC, Box 52-IN 4, Corona 35mm CAMERA SYSTEM FOR SALE! Records, all oullets. 
CUSHING!
Del Mar, CA. 92625. Penlax Spolmallc II with 1.4 SOmmFOR RENT lens, 28mm wide angle lena. 85-205 This week's Moose Jalclt: 
DECK THE HALLS WITH LOTS Of 

Used and Out-oi·Prlnl books 
zoom lena. 2x leleconverter, auto Q: What do winos drink In the PRESENTSIIII Did Monday's snow gel
bought, sold, searched. ERASMUS slrobon flash syale(l'l, Haliburton Yukon? 
you psyched lor Christmas? Chest­BOOKS, 1027 E. Wayne, 232·8444. FOR RENT: Ugly Duckling Rent·A· nuts roasting and all that holidayzero case, plus many extras. Mint A: Moosecatell12·6 p.m., closed Mondays. Car. Priced from $7.95 a day and stuff? Why not vend your holidayCondition! Call Kevin Fete, 7736. Blome this one on Mooselaceseven cents a mile. Phone 255-2323 

BASEBALL CARD SHOW, NOV. 1, wares at the St. Nick Christmas
Ryan.
lor reservatlonL
QUALITY INN, DOWNTOWN SO. BEND, ------------------·-·-Bazaar at St. Mary'sll Call VIcki at Old tavortl81 al THE NAZZ tonight:
9 A.M. TO 4 P.M. FOOTBALL, BSKBALL 41·4786 to r81erve a booth.
Country house lor rent ten minutes . 
Barry Stevens -9:00
CAROS. N.D. PROGRAMS, SPORT TICKETS 
to campus 277-3604 288·0955 I ATTENnON BAND MEMBERS:
Rick Waller~-10:30
MAGAZINES. ETC. IIUY, SELL. TRADE. 
Dance this Saturday, don't mlu Ill INFO. 255-1738. tour bedroom house for rent close WANTTO BUY: 4 GA llx lor Air Farce Listen lorCOUNTRY ROCKJAM llc"-t to campus lmmedlole occupancy game Please call Mary at 8050 give-aways on WSND-AM and Mluy, Put up or shut up. You couldn't
call 287-5361 WRBIHM thll -kll
Will swap two usc lor two llama llx. lhul up. Naw you won't put up. Are Call 1295. you alrald he'll blOck 11.7
LETS ~HI COI!nfry Rock Jam· thla
LOST/FOUND 1 I I Soundellgn Stereo System. 
Saturday at Stepan Center 5:30 I'm In lave with a relafd.
~ANTED 8-lrack a Receiver, Turntable, 4 MOLARITY -on the road to
LOST; n-58 calculator Before break p.m. 1111 a.m. leaturtng5 bonds ancl llnc:IG If fOI!nd PLEASE Call #1876 1...---------~-speaker~ $200 Call Tony selling out. Coming soon. a chicken '-by Port-A-PI!. .:. 
Need a Ride to St. Louis and back on the weekend or November 15. Will share usual. Call Gary at 1030. 
NAVAL OFRCERS -The Naval Reserve Is looking lor enllgns thru 
ll. Commanders lor affiliation with the reserve program. Pay billets are currenfly available. Far Information contact Cdr. Peter Rumely, 272·9053. 
FOR SALE 

•_] ... -./' 
--i i 

Irish muddle through frustrating season 
Gary 
Grassey 
SOUTH ORANGE, N.J.-The frustration was alleviated only in part by Notre Dame's unimpressive 2-1 'victory' over hapless Seton Hall on the ragged soccer-football field along the outskirts of the Pirate campus. 
Despite the win,;.10t a single player, and of course, coach Rich Hunter, could have been pleased with the performance. History had repeated itselffor the third consecutive game, barely 12 days after a similar outing against Miami (Ohio) cost the Irish their only prayer for an NCAA playoff bid. 
The symptoms-critical lapses in concetration, lack of intensity and the absence of timely goal scoring-were the subjects of lockerroom browbeating that has become painfully commonplace during the last two seasons. Considering the relative inepmude of the 1-9 Seton Hall soccer team, the 2-0 score was a moral victory for the hometown squad and a depressing 'downer' on the emotional roller coaster that haunts the Irish soccer team. 
"I don't know what it is anymore," said a frustrated Sami Kahale on the long walk from the field to the Pirate field house. "We just make the same dumb mistakes all the time. There's no way we should play a close game with a team like that.'' 
Even worse, the gam~ three days earlier against equally 
(continued on page [9) 
Irish icers to face a tough Clarkson 
by Bn"an Beglane than we would have liked,"' he said. Sports Wn"ter "There is room for improvement in consistency with our goaltending." 
ROCHESTER, N.Y.-Lefty Junior center Mike Prestidge, last Smith and the Notre Dame hockey year's ECAC scoring co-champ team plod on through a four-games­with 58 points and a first-team all­in-eight-days schedule this weekend star, leads the Knights' attack. when they travel to upstate New For the Irish, junior right wing Jeff York for a non-conference series Logan and sophomore center Rex with Clarkson College, a member of Bellomy are tied for top scoring the Eastern Collegiate Athletic honors with six points each after Conference. three 
The Irish meet the Golden Knights tonight at the Onondaga County War Memorial in Syracuse' and tomorrow evening here at the Rochester War Memorial. Follow­ing this weekend, Notre Dame concludes a full week of non­Powling conference action with a single game . Tuesday at Bowling Green Tuesday. s his second 
The Irish are tied for third in the injury of the Western Collegiate Hockey still-young Association with a l-1 record and season. are l-2 overall following Tuesday The Irish do not play a home night's 4-3 loss to Bowling Green. series until Nov. 21. 
"It's going to be tough playing four 
Scott Cameron 
games in eight days," says Smith. "Just how well a conditioned team we are should show through this stretch of games. 
"We played very poorly against Bowling Green Tuesday night. Defensively, we did a bad job of handling the puck in our own zone and were not aggressive enough. We just have to leave that in the past and play that much harder this week­end." 
Clarkson, located in Potsdam, N.Y., lost only four players from last year's 21-12-1 team. The Golden Knights were fifth in the ECAC with a 14-7 record and made it to the playoff semifinals before bowing to Dartmouth, 6-4. 
Coach Bill O'Fiaherty's team was the ECAC's top-scoring club last year with 205 goals. O'Fiaherty feels his attack is set despite the four graduation losses, but sees room for improvement on defense. 
"We were inconsistent defensive­ly and I feel we gave up more goals 
----~--~ 
'-:?l.~c ,--GBiii?'"' "J>V ,.-gne# M )f'S.,J;c' ·.-g--
Austgens lead club 
by Armand Kornfeld Sports Writer 
Attending Notre Dame becomes tradition in many famil­ies,and it was this tradition that brought the Austgen brothers to South Bend. Dave and Tom Austgen are not simply following in their father's footsteps, how­ever. They are writingtheir own scripts, and Notre Dame's water polo club is quite grateful. 
The Austgens provided a strong foundation for the club in its first full year of official existence. Both Dave and Tom were all-American choices at one time or anotherdurin~ their high 
(continued on page 19) 
-_, -· 

-~ #! ........~p'--t..'""'~jlftl'fc=•• '7"1''''-. 
From 1Vannouncers 
Give us a break 
NBC has decided to give us a well-deserved 
break. 

On December 20 NBC will broadcast the New 
YorkJets-Miami Dolphins game from the Orange 
Bowl without the usual commentary. There will be 
no play-by-play. There will be no "color." Bryant 
Gumbel will furnish occassional informational 
and statistical updates. 

The rather extreme experimental break will substitute "on the field and crowd noise" for what in the past has been poor-and what is pro­gr ssively getting worse-sportscasting. 
\.ll three major networks are equally guilty. 
~BC has Joe Garagiola, who did anything but a p ofessional job of broadcasting the 1980 world Sf ries. 
Garagiola's senseless remarks and chit-chat with sidekick Tony Kubek could have been substituted or at least complemented by critical analysis, statistical comments and relevant historical re­f1ection. _ 
The former St. Louis Cardinal catcher not only made the mistake of saying too little right too late-he also committed the cardinal sin of tretching a point and saying too much too often. The continuous reports on George Brett's hemorrhoids is the best example of Garagiola's worst. 
Granted, Garagiola might not haved dreamed up the idea to dwell on Brett's ailment by himsel£ Network officials just might have been trying to please a particular sponsor-so why didn't they buy the poor guy some Preparation H and clam up? 
NBC can hardly be as proud as a pig in a dry sty let alone as "Proud as Peacock" with the World Series performance of Garagiola & Co. 
CBS has its problems, too-Brent Musberger and Irv Cross, to name just two. Musberger, who must have graduated from the Rah-rah School of Journalism, and Cross, who, well, who's just plain Cross, combine to muddle through a stagnate 
NFL Today 
Beth Huffman 

Two major accomplishments of the CBS show 
thus far have been to draw an audience with the 
return of Phylis George and to complete the 
glorification of a big time bookie. 
Well, at least Jimmy "The Greek" Snyder is 
sometimes accurate-he did pick Gerry Faust to 
be Notre Dame's next head football coach. 
About the only thing the NFL Today staff can do 
well together is fight. Sunday night Snyder and 
Musburger had it out in aNew York bar with The 
Greek getting a wave of the fist in the direction of 
his buddy Brent. 
The cause? Musberger was upset at the amount 
of time Snyder was given on the show. 
Perhaps the worst display ofbroadcasting can be 
found on ABC's Monday Night Football. The 
ability of Howard Cosell and "Dandy" Don 
Meredith barely equals that of a small town pair 
that comes to mind. 
The concept of Monday night games is ter­rific-but the only way to watch the game and enjoy ~ is to head for a local tavern, down a few pitchers and just watch the game where the senseless nonsense Cosell and Meredith spit out is inaudible. ; 
Perhaps NBC's "best-seat-in-the-ho~se" ex­periment is a little too extreme. There are·several announcers on all three networks that are talented and worth mentioning: Pat Summerall (CBS), Tom Brookshire (CBS), AI Michaels (ABC), Keith 
Jackson (ABC), Dick Enberg (NBC), Merlin Olsen (NBC), John Brodie (NBC) and of course, Jim McKay (ABC). Development and usage of the talent these men and a few capable others possess might make such a drastic move as that to be tried by NBC unnessary. 

Senior tailbackJim Stone wtl! try to make Irish history by rushing over 100 yardsfor the fourth straight week when Notre Dame takes on Navy tomorrow. (photo by Chris Salvin.) 
Belle team 
to compete 
at state 
by Matt Hu!fm.an Sports Wn"ter 
The St. Mary's field hockey 
team heads mto the state 
tournament a definite under­
dog but extremely confident of 
winning. 
"We're very sure that we 
can take it all this weekend," 
comments senior co-captain 
Beth Welch. "We've got a 
~reat deal of potential and this 
IS the time for us to show it.'' 
The' tournament runs this 
weekend through Sunday. It is 
being held at Earlham College 
in Richmond and includes 
three separate divisions from 
around the state. 
The Belles sports a 2-6 
record thus far this year but 
that isn't indicative of the 
team's potential, according to 
Welch. 
"Most of the games we've lost 
were really close. Our record 
could be very different if not 
for a few goals. 
"We'rea very young teain. We 
have a great deal of potential 
that we just haven't been able 
to exploit yet," notes Welch,
I 
who captains the team along with fellow senior Nannette Krauss. "For example, we 
(continued on page 19) 









