• • • Photography contest winners 

I 
.l 


Security RA 'splay vital role in prepares ND/SMC community 
By Mary Leavitt Student Affairs towards the end Saint Mary's News Editor ofJanuary. All candidates who pass the initial screening are A resident assistant plays an then directed to contact the
for break 

integral part in campus life at rector of the hall or halls in both Notre Dame and Saint which they w~sh to serve. At this
By Rich Fischer 

Mary's. Although there are point, the process moves from differences in the systems the Office of Student Affairs to Director of Security Glenn mployed by each school, the 
the dormitories. 
Terry and his staff will implement basic goal is the same: to help The rector of each hall is 

special security precautions students live together comfort-responsible for selecting hisdu~·ing the month-long Christmas ably and profitably in the RAs. The process differs a bit break. resident halls. In order to do from hall to hall, but, in general

These measures include chain-this, the RA is expected to 

the rector and a committee 
locking all the entrances but one fullfil! certain requirements and 
to each of the dorms, a standard live up to certain standards. 

l\r10NDA Y :=:=:=:=======::.:=:=:=:=:=::::::: 
practice during breaks. Maids, Most importantly, he serves as a 

janitors, and hall staff will be the link between the college's staff 
·.·.·.·.•.•.·..-........

·.·.·.·.·.·;·.·.·.··FOCUS
only people other than security and its students. 
staff to have keys to the remain-"Of course, we see every RA 

I
ing doors. as a student first," explained Fr. 

consisting of assistant rectors
In addition, Terry announced Gregory Green, assistant vice-and current RAs interview the

that the number of campus foot president of student affairs. 

candidat•.:-s, assess each of them
patrols will be greatly increased "But a good RA should be able and decide by vote whom theyto provide more effective sur-to fulfill both his position as a wish to .~mploy. A complete listveillance of the residence halls student here and his position as of RA choices is due to theand academic buildings. a member of the staff." 

Office of Student Affairs at the
When asked if he anticipates a The acquisition of the posi­beginning ofMarch, and candi­rash ofbreak-ins and disturbances tion itself is an extremely com-dates are subsequently notifiedduring the Christmas break sim-petitive process. Of the 500 to 

oftheir acceptance or rejection.
ilar to the incidents that have 600 candidates who apply The selection process at SMCoccurred over the mid-semester yearly at ND, only 130 RAs are differs from the one at ND inbreaks, Terry answered with a needed. Usually, 20 of these that the entire process beginsdefinite "no." positions are filled by returning and ends in the Office of

He explained that the breaks veterans. At SMC, there are 48 Residence Life. Application

are very different in character. resident asf~stant positions of forms along with three recom­Specifically, Christmas break is which half are usually filled by 

mendations are due in the office
marked by the absence of the The steeple ofthe Sacred Heart Church is silhouetted magestically returnees. Seventy to 100 

in mid-January. The recom­
..;tudents, while the mid-semester against a dark and threatening sky (photo by Chris Salvino) students apply for the remain­

mendation forms are to be filled
vacations do not empty the ing positions yearly. 

out by a present resident ad­
<.ampus. c / The system of selection dif­visor, a member ofthe College's

The exodus of students for fers between the two schools.

Carter Secur.:ty ounc.;

( hristmas makes it easier for 1 11 11 At Notre Dame, the process faculty staff or administration and a personal friend or former
Security to effectively guard ~ p l nd • • rtarts in the Office of Student ar,ainst both vandalism and con er on 0 a criSIS i-.ffairs. Applicants are expect-employer. Each applicant is burglary because Security can ' t:d to pick up the required form then required to interview with limit access to the buildings WASHINGTON (AP) -President Carter conferred packet personally at the office. each of the residence directors more drastically. Further, it is Sunday with the National Security Council over the Polish Included in these packets are a and two RAs. Each candidate is easier to account for the presence , crisis ~nd a 'White House official said a Soviet intervention in schedule for RA selection, a also assigned to an apprentice­of any person on the campus. : Pola~d "co'.lld take place because preparations for it are general description of the posi-ship group consisting of fivt to 
·'Jjustdon'tanticipatearashof: completed.'' · tJOn, an application form and eight applicants and two cur­
break-ins," said 1erry. , The White House said in an announcement that Soviet : three recommendation forms, rent RAs. The group meets in­
For those students living off : preparatiom "for possible...intervf'ntion in Poland" have : two of which are to be com-formally twice for two to three campus, security arrangements been completed. : pleted by members of the resi hours. If candidates are inter­are not so well-defined. Roughly A senior White House official stepped back from an ;-dtnce hall head staff and the ested in trainmg for their in­2700 Notre Dame students cur-assertion he made last week that a Soviet intervention in · third to be completed by a terview, an optional interview rently live off campus, in arrange-, Poland was not imminent. The official stated on Sunday:"As : former employer. The appli-skills workshop is offered. ments ranging from complexes ' of now, we're not in a position to say whether it is imminent ; cant is required to be either a There are certain additional like ND Apartments to Campus or not. \Y!e are in a position to note that it could take place : senior or a graduate student, requirements expected of the View to single or multi-residence because pr{ parations for it are completed." ; have an accumulative average appicants. Only sophomores or houses. Whatever security "It is our ~ope that no such intervention will take place," . of at least 3.0 and not to have juniors may apply, a minimum arrangements are to be made for ; the White House said in a written statement handed to i any other "job" requirements. GPA of 2. ~ is required and the the policing of this area over i reporters. . Law students must have the ap-RA may not serve in Student break, Terry stressed, are not the 1 The National Security Council meeting lasted one hour pwval of the law school before Government positions or retain responsibility of Notre Dame [ and 50 minutes Sunday afternoon. At the end, House and they will be considered. employment exceeding five Security. I Senate Democratic and Republican officials-house Applications usually open at 
fcon/. '.'~:ed on page 7}
Last year, the management of i the beginning ofDecember and Notre Dame Apartments made 1 [continued on page 101. are due back to the Office of 
arrangements with security for a ~·=::::=::=:=========·-::::...-=.=·--:::.=:-:.-=.::-:._:::--=-=-=-=-=-=.:====-=·==-=-=-=·=:-:.==~I============-==
person to check the apartment --·..---­cumplex every few hours. ND 1V J'l .rr,lepu/Jback'
Apartments paid the security ~·U ~-~ ......, 
personnel themselves for this s • J: •J • hJ 

;.~~tw!':':?cc~:;;:.~~d' !~ >_Yrta, Joruan wzt uraw troops
pt:rsonnel going to and returning from work, so as not to diminish DAMASCUS, Syria mediation effort by Saudi Persian .Gulf war between Iran coverage of the campus itself. (AP)-Tanks and troops rolled Arabia and that about 25 per­and Iraq.
The ND Apartment manage­back on both sides of the cent of the forces on both sides Syria began the buildup Nov. ment has not yet contacted Syrian-Jordan border yesterday had been withdrawn. 2, deploying a total of 50,000 

Security this year to make any after a two-week military con­There was no immediate soldiers and 1,200 tanks on the similar arrangements. frontation pushed the two Arab word from from officials in southern border. Jordan re­The other residence areas. countries to the brink of war, Amman on Jordanian pull­sponded by sending an esti­
including Campus View, are officialSyriansources reported. backs. "We are still taking this mated 600 tanks and 30,000 advised to contact either the seriously,'" said one Jordanian troops to within six miles ofthe managementoftheir complex or The sources, who declined to source of the border crisis that Syrian forces. the South Bend Police to see be id( ntified, said the full-scale threatened a .iecond conflict in 
[continl4etl on page 3]

about security arrangements. pullback began Saturday after a an area already tense over the 
------~-· 
----------~-­









1\T~fl)Sct=)=1=~=j=~~~=S==========~==================··=M=o=n=da=y=,=D=e=ce=m=b=e=r=8,=1=9=8=0~=p=a=g~e2 
by The OhsertRr and The AsJ()ciated Prt'SJ 
.fuside Monday 
Parents of three of the ·Americans held 
hostage in Iran ignored a chilly drizzle yesterday to attend a 

Th~ Spirit ofChristmas
flag-raising marking the 39th anniversary of the Japanese 
attack on Pearl Harbor and the 400th day ofcaptivity for the 52 Americans. Only about 50 people braved the weather for the ceremony at Hill Crest Memorial Park, one of the smallest turnouts since the cemetery's operators began raising a U.S. flag for each day of the hostages captivity. "I was disappointed. We usually have a couple hundred people," said Kay Mack, an organizer ofthe ceremonies. The discouraging weather probably kt others away, she said. Kichard Hermening ofCudahy, Wis., fatherofhostage Kevin ~[ermening, helped cemetery owner Tom Flynn raise a flag that had flown over the sunken battleship Arizona in a Veterans Day memorial ceremony at Pearl Harbor last month. Also at the ceremony was Teresa Lodeski of Edwardsville, Pa., mother of hostage Bruce German, and Eleanor Kupke of Francesville, Ind., mother ofhostage Rick Kupke.-AP 
The Soviet Union will invade 
Poland "only under the most extreme of circumstances" because of the possible widespread results throughout the communist world and Europe, says a Columbia University expert on Soviet affairs. Seweryn Bialer, director of the university's Research Institute on International Change, says an invasion would first bring about war, with some Polish army units resisting the Russians. He said in an interview 
· published yesterday in U.S. News & World Report that the invasion would also raise the necessity of feeding the 35 million Poles after their country had been subjugated; the breaking with Moscow ofthe Italian and Spanish Communist parties; and the end of detente in Europe, a major Soviet foreign policy goal. "Because the invasion of Poland would entail a very high price for the Soviet Union, the threshold of Soviet tolerance will be high," Bialer said. "They will invade only under the most extreme of circumstances."-AP 
The nation's oldestmass transit system 
resumed operation with reduced service yesterday after a one-day shutdown at the height of the Christmas shopping season. Legislators agreed to an emergency $41 million bailout that Gov. Edward J. King said averted "weekday shutdowns." Barry M. Locke, acting head of the transit authority, announced immediate cutbacks in 32 of the system's 177 bus routes and on three of the 10 commuter rail routes inJanuary. Officials warned more service cuts were in the offing for the financially troubled system, which serves 260,000 daily commuters in the Boston area with trains, buses, subways and trolleys. The budgetary impasse that i halted the system was broken at midnight Saturday, 24 hours 1 afte.r .service stopped, with enactment of legislation rear­
l 
gamzmg the M.assach~setts Bay Transportation Aut?ority.! The compromise, which came after a week of legtslativeIw~a~gling,_ authorized the MBT~ to spend an additional $41 ! mdl10n this year to keep runntng. Legislators had agreed earlier that $10 million of the amou?t would be provided by . the recent doubling of basic fares to 50 cents.-AP 
i 
1 Ronald Reagan said yesterday he 
! would announce at least some members of his Cabinet this 1 week. Speaking to reporters briefly after attending worship services at the Bel Air Presbyterian Church, Reagan replied "this coming week" to a question on when he would ;announce his Cabinet. "I don't know which day," he said. The ;president-elect also confirmed that he had sent a message to IEgypt and Israel saying he believed in the Camp David peace 1 process and did not intend to change it without their consent. "That meassage has been sent, yes," Reagan repied when questioned about reports that his foreign affairs adviser, Richad Allen, had sent such a message through Mideast peace negotiator Sol Linowitz. There was concern in both Israel .and Egypt that Reagan might try to go outside the Camp !David accords in trying to negotiate a Mideast peace. -AP 
I 
; Amputee Terrv Fox, whose bid to run 
·.tnoss Canada on one leg was J;.alted when cancer spread to i his lungs. says he still hopes to resume the run to raise money . :1 l1' can(er reSt'arch. Fox, 22, also says his newfound religious :nmvictions have given him relief from pain. He said he was · .mabie to eat because of pain three weeks ago, but has : :1ow gained seven pounds. "I get strength now through : L)cli~·v!ng in God and believing in myself," Fox said at a news i l onference on Friday. Plans for a $1 million cancer research J l'entcr in Vancouver also were announced at the news :l'<mftrence. The British Columbia provincial government is !to provide funds through Fox's Marathon of Hope. Cox, 1 whose leg was amputated because ofcancer several years ago, 
started his run April 12 in St. John's, Newfoundland. The rnarathon ended in Thunder Bay, Ontario, one-third of the way across, Sept. 2.-AP 
i A 60 percent chance of rain 
·today. High tonight in the mid to upper 50s, but tern­\ peratur~s will fall during the afternoon. Rain enriing towardlevening. Mostly cloudy tonight. Low in the mid 30s. Partly 1 cloudy Tuesday. High near 40.-AP 
! 
week of Advent. Since it is now officially the Christmas season we should all be full of the Christmas spirit. 
So, why do so many of us feel like Scrooge, unable to feel the joy and peace that this time of the year brings? Christmas is coming but we all have papers to write and finals are bearing down upon us. 
When you stay up night after night studying until your eye:-; are bloodshot and your head is in a daze; until· you find yourself wandering a.mlessly among the library stacks wondering 
I 
. what you wenc there for; until you're not sure if : ~ ou're eating 1Heakfast or dinner since they both look the same anyway; until you have forgotten . ~rhat your roommate looks like because she's J holed up in a classroom and you're bent over a j typewriter, how are you supposed to remember i it's Christmas?!i Even though finals are on the way, there are 
1
lsome students who look for any excuse not to study. Thetefore we start having "Christmas ~parties," "Christmas formals," and "Christmas : dinners," etc. And the punch line to every 1 invitation is "take a study break." It's all well 1 intentioned, but it's hard to find much of the · good old Christmas cheer. The activities are fun, but the only thing Christmas-y about them seems to be the blinking lights and red and green streamers. Beer hardly replaces eggnog, and dancing to "Rock Lobster" or "Born to Run" is not much ofa substitute for caroling "Deck the 
. Halls" or "Silent Night." 
So, with the pressure of "study breaking" ;added to the pressure of"studying," how do you ; remember that it's Christmas and where do you jtook for the Christmas spirit? 1 The Christmas spirit brings to mind long quiet : afternoons before a blazing fire and strolling j along a brightly-lit street singing Christmas :carols. It's been part of that exhilirating feelingi that comes from sledding down a snowy hill or i skating on an open lake. These are the things \ that should be shared with people we care for 
and enjoy being with. These people are here with us now, but we just never seem to find time to share this spirit with them. 
That's why we feel like Scrooge, because the time to give to our friends during the most holy. and joyful season of the year just isn't there.. 
. When finals are over we pack up our bags and take off. It's inevitable, but it can leave us feeling cold and empty. 
But, you can walk down the North Quad and' hear the chimes from Sacred Heart playing''God' 
Rest Ye, Merry Gentlemen." In 
. Lounge of LeMans Hall there is a cheery fire burning, to warm all who pass through on their way to and from classes. Dark empty corners in the lobbies of many dorms are transformed into :a blaze of tinsel and baubles shimmering upon 
I I 
f)::·r.r;.,'. :.~.--1::ur ...... _ .. ~ .. M1kt" ~fonk n, ··'.I:" A, •i,t~t•l' . . Moni.:a C. "l!k· l..ia\Jra Mu1plw D1ant' Mazurek .V1J;.·-.:.~· Trc·i~•/cirt~-. ....... Rit.h Fi~t-ht·!" N.-.ur Edttu~. . ........ L\·nnt Dak,· F,ll/ilrn Llyt!wt... ..........Jnhn man~< Ryan Vtr Berkmoe> Sfor(s l..u)''Nil . ............ l\.1 ikt' 0 rtmaJO T;'/'tt!f _.. _........ . . . .. _Linda Hcw!tr ,v,urtr c,pr !'-lit~r . . . . . .. Mih Ort~:~ . ,\'[) D.:)• P..ditiJTI .•. R''·"' vtr Bt-rKr!lt'~' Pam De~n ..n .4d !J, ";," ............. M.Jf\' & !l',,. •,. l'i"-"K'«Pi.,-rr ............. Chris S.Uv:"" 
!<..o.:h..l Blount J.nhn M!lt."r Ann Fink 
Tilt 0....._ (USPS 598 920) is 
publls.J.:ed Monday tflrough Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. TH Ou.vtr Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's COIItge. SubScriptions may be purchaled for $20 per year (S1 0 per semester) by writing TU OMirvll', P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IndiaN 46556. 5econd dus postJge paid. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
Tilt o••ls a member of the Allociated Press. All reproduction rights are retefVId. 

Margie 

Brassil 
Si'\.1C Executlve Edrtor 

stately Christmas trees that seem to have grown there overnight. Lights of red, blue, green and amber appear in windows and on the fir trees all over the quads. Unknown people, with little 
time  to spare  themselves, managed  to  bring  
Christmas a little bit closer.  
You  can't help  but  notice  all  these  little  

touches. They make you stop, and with that stop comes a short moment ofpeace. It's only a pause in your busy schedule, but it reminds you that, yes, it is Christmas. It's a thought that for a moment fills our hearts with the spirit of Christmas. A thought which somehow turns into an action, like a hug or handshake accom­panying the words, "Have a Merry Christmas!" and it answers the need for the time that we don't • have. 
Time may be controlling our lives, stopping us from enjoying all the memorable activities oft!1e season. But, it's that wish and prayer to our friends that belongs in our hearts. The spirit of Christmas is a message to the friends we love. In giving that, we know the joy and peace of Christmas. 


Merry Christmas from Locks 

$4.59 liter 

• 
Cast m 
Ushers reen Blended Scotch Whiskey



=• .-:
$12.99 1.75 liter 
• 
eer
:.. :24 12oz. n/r bottles $5.99 Many more specials or Holiday Season 


The Observer Monday, December 8, 1980 -page 3 
' 'Observer' ' accused 
No charges filed in po1ice-s~udent clash 

By John M. Higgim Staff Reporter 

No charges offalse arrest will be filed against the South Bend Police Department concerning an incident in which four stu­dents were arrested for disor­derly conduct following an in­cident that took place after the Notre Dame-Air Force football game, according to James Trotta, one of the students in­volved. 
Trotta said that the students had "only contemplated" filing a suit against the city and had never actually consulted legal counsel. Trotta charged that The Observer "misquoted" one of the students in articles which appeared Wedneseday and Thursday. "The first story was changed after the reporter was finished with it," he said "There were some things that just weren't right." 
Spf:cifically, Trotta said that The Observer stated that the students had definitely decided to file suit against the SBPD for false arrest and false incarcera­tion and had already consulted an attorney. He also said that a statement by one of the stu­

dents that Dean of Students James Roemer was aware of the arrests at 5 p.m. that same day was inserted into the article by a news editor. even though the reporter knew it was false. 
Following a meeting with Roemer on Thursday, the stu­dents also prepared a letter to The Observer to clarify their position. In this letter, they stated that the paper had "mis­represented" the incident and that their belief that Roemer had been aware of the arrests 
. [continued on page 8} 

These famished Domers are prepared to swallow both the apple and their pride as they pose for photographer Chris Salvino. 
rcontinuedfrom page 1J 
The withdrawals reportedly resulted from mediation by Prince Abdullah bin Abdel-Aziz of Saudi Arabia, who shuttled between Damascus andAmman for four days until both sides agreed to defuse the crisis. 
Arab League Secretary General ChadliKleibi arrived in Damascus on Saturday for talks with President Hafez Assad and was .expected to travel to Amman for talks with King Hussein. Kleibi was attempting to solve the issues that brought on the war ofnerves, Damascus sources said. 
In Beirut, an adviser to Palestine Liberation Organiza­tion head Yasser Arafat was quoted as saying in an interview that Arab countries will attend a summit of Islamic nations in Saudi ArabiaJan 24. The session in Mecca might be used to patch up Arab disputes, Khaledal­Hassan was quoted as telling the Lebanese magazine recently. 
The Syrian-Jordan dispute flared during an Arab foreign ministers gathering in advance 

•of an Arab summit in Jordan Nov. 25-27. Syria led a boycott by pro-Moscow Arab states and the PLO after Damascus' de­mands for a postponement of the summit were ignored. 
Those who stayed away from the Amman summit also have tended to support Iran in the Persian Gulf war. Iran, a non­Arab state, is mostly Persian. 

Jordan has openly backed Iraq and many of the other con­servative Arab nations have tended to sympathize with Iraq 
\in the conflict. 
Syria's president accused Jordan of seeking a Camp David-style deal with the new 
U.S. administration of Presi­dent-elect Ronald Reagan that might undercut what Syria be­lieves should be a united Arab position on the Palestinian is­sue. 


Dole callsfor drastic economic policies 
NEW YORK (AP)--President-­elect Ronald Reagan should declare a national economic emergency as soon as he takes office and then follow up with 
concrete action ''to really shock the American people,'' Repub­lican Sen. Robert Dole said yeste;day. 
"In my view he needs some­thing to dramatize the problem we have in America. Maybe he can declare an economic emer­gency on the 20th ofJanuary,'' Dole said. 
The Kansas Republican, who will become chairman of the 
· Senate Finance Committee whenthe GOP gains control of the chamber next year, was interviewed on NBC/TV's "Meet The Press." 
"It must be followed by some action to really shock the Amer­ican people. Because we are in deep trouble in America, its going to be up to President Reagan to get us out of it,'' hes said. 
To illustrate the problems the nation faces, Dole said the Social Security progrma would run out of money in 14 months if it were not reformed. Social Security administrators have said high inflation output and high unemployment could force 
the  government  to  increase  
taxes  to· pay benefits  on  time  
beginning in 1983.  



• • • Pullback 
Assad also asserted that Jordan was aiding the Moslem Brotherhood, a secret society of Islamic fundamentalists blamed for a wave of bombing and assassinations in Syria during the last 18 months. 

Dec. 15, 16, 17 
From ND CIRCLE 
To 

CHICAGO O'HARE 

EXPRESS! 

Depts  6: 1 0 a.m.  
Circle  11:15 a.m.  
2:45 p.m.  
Arrives  8:15 p.m.  
O'Hare  1:20 p.m.  
4:50p.m  

To Your Individual Airline Gate Return (Jan. 11, 12) 

.Depts 9:45 a.m. O'Hare 4:45 p.m. 8:00p.m. 
(Board lower level Carson's Circle Restaurant) 
$15 One Way $28 round trip 
Buy Your Ticket From Your Driver 




O)Cll)?' 
732. TOULOUSE FRENCH QUARTER 

Allan and Holly welcome you to Molly's "Fighting" Irish Pub, the original Irish pub in the heart of the French Quarter. 
-
Molly's in the past has been the host for the Fighting Irish. This year 
we  again  invite you  all  to  party  
hearty at Molly's.  
J  

Molly's Irish Pub 732 Toulouse St. New Orleans, La. 70130 



Welcome to the Original 24 hour Irish Pub in the heart of the French Quarter Sugar Bowl Classic: Thurs., Jan. 1 , 1 9 81 

TheObserver Monday, December 8, 1980 -page4 

Carterleads Kennedy Center Honors 
W ASHINGTON(AP)--Presi­''In aU of them there is an and the 1980 recipients clearly dent Carter led a salute to five ability to exceed what is nor­personify this tradition," Ste­lwninaries of the American mally expected in a talented vens said. performing ans Sunday night at person,'' Carter told a stand­The gala, featuring per­a White House reception and a mg--room--only audience in the formances and tributes from glittering, taped--for--television White House East Room. professional colleagues of the gala at the Kennedy Center. The honorees recieved their five recipients in the Kennedy 
The 1980 winners of the beribboned medals at a dinner Center Opera House, was to be Kennedy Center Honors for at the State Department Satur­followed by a dinner--dance in ..lifetime achievement in the day night from Roger L. Ste­the center's red--carpeted performing arts'' arecomposer· vens, chairman of the Kennedy grand foyer overlooking the conductor Leonard Bernstem, Center board of trustees. "We Potomac River. actor James Cagney, choreo­now have a national tradition The benefit gala was taped for 
grapher Agnes de Mille, act­for recognition ofgreat achieve­broadcast on CBS television ress singer Leontyne Price. ment in the performing arts, Dec. 27. 
U.S. conunission to tneet \Vith Salvadorean leaders 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salva­Orientacion, church leaders said, dor (AP)-A U.S. presidential ..The final explosion (in the commission arranged meetings ongoing political violence) is with Salvadoran leaders yester­near." day in an attempt to determine 
The bodies of Ita Ford and 
whether the military was in­Maura Clarke, both of the volved in murdering three Maryknoll Order from New American nuns and a social York City; Dorothy Kazel, of worker. El Salvador's Roman the U rsaline Order from 
Catholic Church blamed the Cleveland, Ohio, and Jean ruling junta for the deaths. 
Donovan, a lay religious worker 
A U.S. Embassy spokesman from were
also Cleveland,said the commtsston was found shot to death by the side 
scheduled to meet with military of a rural road Wednesday.officials and church leaders, but 
Authorities said they were declined to elaborate because murdered the day before. 
of security surrounding the No one has claimed respon­
mission to this violence-torn sibility. The ruling civilian­Central American country. 
military junta has said the
The church statement, read 
killings were the work of ex­at Sunday Mass in San treme rightists, and the mur­Salvador's Metropolitan Cath­ders follow a pattern of rightist
edral and broadcast throughout 
assasination squads that work in
the country on radio, came 
El Salvador at will.
from Apostolic Administrator Arturo Rivera y Damas. The presidential commission He said the assassinations of ts headed by William D. Rogers, 
the four Americans last week a lawyer who served as under­secretary of state for Inter­
were "the culmination of four years of persecution of the American Affairs with close ties 
church, that has increased in to the incoming Reagan ad­quantity and quality in 1980, ministration, and Undersecre­coinciding with the new politi­tary ofState William Bowdler, a 
cal ~onstruction of the country former ambassador to El Sal­by the military and the Chris­vador. tian Democratic Party.'' The commission arrived here 
The junta is made up of five Saturday, a day after the United members, including two mili­States cut off military and tary colonels, two members of economic aid to this turbulent the party anti an independent. Central American country. At least nine priests, including Previously, the United States Salvador Archbishop Arnulfo has staunchly backed the junta Romero, have been killed since as an alternative to the extreme l977. right and left who have been 
In a weekly church bulletin, battling for power. 



-~--~---~-­
---.. 
~~ ~--~--­

----~-----------~~­
TheObserver Monday, December 8, 1980-page 5 
Ex-navalofficer 


-Peacock recalls Pearl bombing 
INDIJ.NAPOUS(AP)-· Thirty­couldn't be happening. It took a ''I personally wasn't very con­
nine years ago, William Pea­long while for it to sink in.'' fident," he said. "I didn't feel cock thought he was headed to The Sacramento took no di­we could repeal the size of the Pacific Ocean for training. rect hits. Peacock was not invasion we expected.'' Instead, he became a witnes~ to injured. But the U.S. military The invasion didn't occur and the bombing of Pearl Harbor had suffered a severe setback. the United States went on to and the opening of a war that With the Navy shattered, wage a lengthy war against lasted four long years. most people felt there was an Japan. 
Peacockwas 28, a petty officer enemy fleet on its way. 
with the Indiana Naval Reserve. ''Our immediate feeling was Peacock stayed with the Sac­He and his unit had been that we would be invaded," ramento until 194 3, serving on stationed aboard the U.S.S. Peacock said. the ship which was turned into 
Sacramento, a World War I Could the remaining military a patrol boat. He was trans­gunboat which was used pri­forces turn back a Japanese ferred to a training station in marily as a training ship, less invasion and avoid death or California and served there than a month when Dec. 7, 1941 capture? until the end of World War II. dawned. Peacock, now a retired federal worker living in Indianapolis, claimed his memory was hazy 
Solemnceremonyabout the event which became known as the Day of Infamy. His recollections beliethat. 

marks anniversary 
''I had just finished breakfast and came up on deck,'' Peacock PEARL HARBOR, Hawaii tional Guardsmen, representa­recalled. (AP)--On a quiet Sunday mor­tives of more than 30 veterans 
''I noticed these planes flying ning like the famous one 39 and patriotic groups that pre­very very low. All of us thought years ago, flowers were drop­sented the wreaths, and more it was some kind of drill. Then ped onto the rain--swept waters than 200 onlookers gathered in we heard gunfire and saw red of Pearl Harbor to mark the the downpour for the ceremony. circles (bombs exploding),'' anniversary of the Japanese At 7:55 a.m., the time of the Peacock said. attack that plunged the United attack, a moment of silent 
The call to battle stations came Sates into World Warr II. reverence was observed almost immediately. Peacock Arizona Gov. Bruce Babbitt throughout the sprawling naval ran to his station on the bridge and Hawaii Gov. George Ari­base. of the Sacramento. His ship was yoshi watched during the sim­Plans for four Hawaii Air moored and he had very little to ple, solemn ceremony as single National Guard Phantom jets to do. Two other ships beside the flov.wrs drawn from more than fly over the Arizona Memorial Sacramento blocked his view 30 floral wreaths cascaded into in a ' 'missing man'' formation 
except in a forward direction. the water. were scrubbed because of poor 
Peacock watched three ships The ceremony, conducted for weather. go down. "I saw them explode the first time by the National Following a brief prayer by Lt. when hit,'' he said. He remem­Park Service, was held on the Cmdr. Fred A. Natkin, the 
bers his feelings clearly. stark white marble memorial Navy chaplain, Navy and Ma­
"It was such a surprise. that stands across the remains rine soldiers raised the Ameri­Unexpected. There was gun­of the battleswhip Arizona, can flag next to the main mast fire. Fires going on every­sunk by Japanese dive--bom­of the sunken Arizona, in which where. bers in the Dec. 7, 1941, attack. more than 1, 100 men remain 
"I felt it was unre2!. It A group of Arizona Air Na-entombed. 
Stores forced to clear shelves after anonymous poison threat 
WACO, Texas (AP)-No officials arranged a 7 p.m. perfectly sealed -canned browsing, checking or sacking "drop" in a city park near the goods, for example," Ault said. took place yesterday at the six Brazos River, but the caller did H-E-B Food Stores in this not give specific instructions on Ault said he hoped all six central Texas city. Instead, where and how to deliver the stores would be back to normal every item was removed for money. "in the early part of the checking after an apparent ex­Officers waited until mid­week ... not Monday, but just as tortion attempt in which a night Thursday, but no one quickly as possible." telephone caller said he laced showed up, said Horton. He said suspicious merchan­grocery products with poison. There was another call Fri­dise would be buried, adding 
"We've been working all day, and this time the demand there was "absolutely no night," H-E-B co. vice presi­was more specific, the lieuten­chance" any of those items dent Bill Ault said yesterday. ant said. The caller ordered would be sold elsewhere. "We hope we'll be able to get store officials to leave the Ault said store executives the old stock out of the stores money on a street in Gholson, a were considering whether to by working throughout the town about 15 miles north of recall groceries bought recently day." Waco. Police and FBI agents at the stores. 
The effort came after two un­delivered a locked metal suit­successful attempts to connect case to the drop point, Horton 


with the anonymous male cal­said, and it later appeared to ler, who demanded $60,000, have been moved-but it was 
Juniors-
authorities said. not taken. 
Everything "from meats to Officers did not say whether baby rattles" was being re­the money was inside the case. Sign-up for Senior Bahamas Trip: moved from the supermarkets, By · '.! Saturday, Horton said, 
7 night -$450 package
A ult said. He said any mer­then: had been five telephone chandise that might have been calls, all to the same super­contaminated would be thrown market. 
When: Dec.9, Dec. 10 
out. 
A ul t would not reveal how In a Saturday press release, -Where: Lafortune Lobby, 11-2 much the effort would cost, officials of the Corpus Christi­LeMons Lobby, 11-1, 8-9 
saying only: "we know but I've based supermarket company been asked not to say. It is a said they were convinced the very, very large sum, though." threat was a "hoax" but the Bring $25 Deposit to Sign-up 
The anonymous caller made company "is determined to ·Additional $75 Deposit Next Semester his first threat Thursday, said take no risks involving the police Lt. Marvin Horton, de­safety of the customers and 
Both Deposits are NON-REFUNDABLE!
manding $6o,noo to disclose employees." the location ofpoison he said he put in three of the six H-E-B "We take everything out and Any Questions? stores here. then we have a food analysis 
He did not specify which expert who makes a corp.plete stores or name the poison he inspection of the store to make Nick: 6275 Nancy: 41-4826 allegedly used, authorities said. sure there's no possible chance 
Jim: 1783 Colleen: 41-4563
Horton said police and store of any container not being 


A GREAT PLACE TO DO YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING.... 
SAINT FRANCIS SHOPPE 
nonprofit organization 
Behind Fatima Retreat Center opposite Saint Mary's 
10 to6 Mon.-Sat. Phone233-7467 
A wide selection of hand-crafted articles from the THIRD WORLD. 
HELP OTHERS WHILE YOU HELP YOURSELF.... 
-~--rc·-­



The Observer . Monday, December 8, 1980 -page 6 
CADIZ* Ky.--Voters in rural Trigg County plan to rise early
Spirited 

tomorrow, don their unday best and head for the polls, some for the first time in their lives. 
What has folks in these parts all stirred up five weeks after
election 

other ballot boxes were put back on the shelves is not Republican vs. Democrat or liberal vs. conservative. It's liquor vs. no liquor. End
decides 

of discussion. End of ballot. 
Newcomers don't understand it. Tourists are perplexed. Everyone knows Kentucky is the home of moonshine and fine
question of 
bourbon whiskey. So what is prohibition doing here? /''Pretty strange, isn't 1t?' ' Trigg County Judge Zeiner
Kentucky 
Cossey says in his rich country drawl. "We make it, and somebody else drinks it. And it isn't too .bt.tt·onbad a .product we mak.e, is it?'' 
Whtle Kentucky clatms 
Prohl 

bourbon as its mQSt celebrated export, Cossey says, the state is also a Baptist stronghold. 
SPRINGSTEEN 
~Jan.26,1981~ 
Student Lottery Fri. Dec. 12 (study day) at Stepan Center 
As a result, Kentucky is a state which .Produces 60 percent of the nation's bourbon, yet boasts the highest percentage of the territory where it cannot be sold. Of its 120 counties, 94 have voted themselves dry in­cluding Bourbon County. 
There are few undecideds m the debate over drink; for most, liquor is either the nectar of the gods or the brew of the devil. 
Still, with the help of bootleggers, the imbibers and teetotalers have co-existed peacefully for years. The peace 1s about to be put to the test in Trigg County. · 
There's a Ion~ cast of char­acters--from Phtl Phillips, the Canton businessman who heads the ''wet'' forces, to Lurline Humphries of Cadiz, who be­came Kentucky's first female sheriff during the tumultuous '30s, the last time Trigg County was wet. 
And the scenario features spots such as Golden Pond, once the moonshine capital of the nation. 
Golden Pond is now dry as a bone thanks to the Tennessee Valley Authority, which evicted the town's 350 families when it built Kentucky and Barkley lakes in 1969 as part of the enormous TVA flood--control and power--generating project. 
The town that once sent its home brew as far away as New York and Chicago is now just a dot on the map on a 170,000-­acre penensula known as Land Between the Lakes. 
Along with power, the TVA project also generates tourism, a note often sounded by the pro--liquor forces. 
Phillips complains that Trigg County isn't capitalizing on tourism. ''The major Midwest­ern tourist attractions all are wet and have taken advanta~e of the growth and prospenty that legalized alcohol can bring,'' he says. 
He contends that investors won't build restaurants, hotels or entertainment facilities here as long as people keep banning booze. 
And Trigg County could use such investment. As Phillips points out, the recent comple­tion of Interstate 24 is keeping trafhc, and the business it used to bring, five miles away from Cadiz, the biggest town with a population 2,000. He also cites studies indicating the county's 
13.7 percent unemployment rate will rise because of the poor economicoutlookfor farm­mg. 
''The whole motive is econo­mic," says Phillips. 
He also emphasizes that going wet would mean no more than licensing three package stores for the entire county. By law, taverns may operate only in cities fourth class and above. Cadiz is fifth class. 
"We're just shooting for package liquor. People need not worry about slobbering drunks on the streets," says Phillips. 
Hogwash, says Lurline Hum­phries. ''I was the sheriff when 1t was wet before, and you couldn't be on the street with­out a drunk. 
''When my brother was she­riff, he used to say there was not use going to bed on a Saturday night. There was al­ways a ~ght, and it went on as long as there was liquor a­round.'' 
As far as she's concerned, the economic argument is also all wet. "I don't think money means as much as peace and quiet,' ' she sniffs. 
Linda Burnam agrees, de­spite feeling the area's econo­mic problems more shrply than most~-her children's clothing store closed in June, soon after 1-24 rerrouted traffec away from the Cadiz. 
· "But I don't think liquor stores lining the streets of Cadiz would have made any difference," Mrs. Burnma says. 
She said she has ''never seen any good come of drinking a drop or a gallon (of liquor), and I'm very much against it being sold in my city.'' 
Her views are echoed by Delbert Butts, director of the state's Temperence League. 
Butts knows the numbers by heart. The evils of liwuor contribute, he says, to 50 percent ofall child abuse cases, more than half of all homicides and fatal car accidents, 33 percent of all rapes. His figures come from the National Insti­tute of Alcholism and AlcohoJ Abuse, part of the federal Health and Human Services Department. 
Amidst all the arguin~ sits Zeiner Cossey. His duues as judge preclude him form taking a pubhc position, but he will say that a huge turnout is expected at the polls Tuesday. 
By the time cocktail hour rolls 
around, all should know. 

! 
! 
i 
I ) 
I I 
f 
~· 
Doors open at 9:30am 
Domers work for Ukrainian's release 
Must PAYIN FULL at lottery 
by Kate FaTTell grou_{> to work for the release of ters and by calling public
Prices to be announced. 
The Notre Dame chapter of Ukramian political prisoner attention to the Dasiv case. Amnesty International hes re­Kuzma Andreyevich Dasiv. Founded in 1961,Amnesty In-· 
. 
cently formed an adoption 

c:·. 
• • • • • • • 
• GIVE A 1981 CALENDAR for CHRISTMAS THE PERFECT GIFTI!! Choose from: Murphys Law The Empire Strikes Back Jill Uris -Ireland Icons Miss Piggy Cover Girl Thomas Merton Winnie the Pooh And Many Others 
COME IN AND SEE OUR LARGE SELECTION 
THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE BOOK DEPARTMENT 
ternational is a London-oasedDasiv, a 55Jear old engineer, 
was arreste in November, human rights organization 1973 for distributing samizdat working for both improved hu­(uncensored privately .Pro­man rights standards through· 

duced) literature advocatmg out the world and specific ''pri­Ukrainian nationalism. Dasiv soners of conscience'' (a prison­was charged with ''anti--Soviet er of conscience is someone agitation and propaganda'' sen­imprisoned on account oi his · 
race, sex, religion of ethnic
tenced to seven years imerison­ment plus a three year extle. He origin, or someone imprisoned 

isservinghis sentence in Camp for exercising ·basic civil liber­19 of the archipelago of labor ties). The Notre Dame chapter colonies in Mordovia, ASSR, was founded in 1976 by Profes­several hundred kilometres . · sor Gilbert Loescher. In the south ofMoscow. He has a wife past four years, it has seen· all and young daughter. of its five adopted prisoners 
The Notre Dame group re­released and has gotten in­ceived.the case in early Novem­volved in numerous human ber when an Amnesty goup rights campaigns. which had previously worked on Anybody wishing to become 
the case disbanded. An adop­involved in Amnesty or in the tion group · will. work for Da­new adoption group can contact siv' s release by pressuring Jerry McMahon at· 8403 (249 Soviet authorities through let-Pangborn). 
•. . Defense 
(continued from page 24) 
rnsh defense was simply over­
come. But it was no fault of ·their own. 
It is time for the offensive unit 
to start pulling its own weight. 
Admittedly, Devine ahs called 
the offense the most inexper­
ienced squad on the team. The 
offensive unit has played in­
consistently this season. It was a 
talP.nted offensive team that 
mowed over Navy, but against 
Southern California the Irish 
were at their"greenest','. Large­
ly due to mistaken calls and 
mental; errors, the Irish just 
could not score. 
The talent is there, no matter 
how young. The line has open­
ed holes before, be it for Jim Stone or Phil Carter, Mike Courey or Blair Kiel. 

On January 1, 1981, Notre Dame will play Georgia in the Sugar Bowl. The Irish will have to contend with freshman all­American tailback Herschel Walker. Containing Walker and company will be a big job for the Irish defense-they won't have time to carry the offensive unit, too. 
GAME NOTES-Prior to Saturday's game, approximate­ly 30 Notre Dame mesh jerseys, several helmets and some other equipment was stolen from the Notre Dame locker room in the Los Angeles Coliseum..·The Irish managers were prepared with enough backup equip­ment 



The Observer Monday, December 8, 1980 -page 7 
• • • R.A.'s 
(continuedfrom page 1j 
hours per week unless approved by the Residence Director. 
After the formal interviewing is completed, an evaluation table is completed by members of the committee. This table is based on a point system whereas each applicant may receive as few .as one and as many as four points. The ap­plicants are notified of their status prior to spring break. 
Both ND and SMC are basically looking for the same qualities when they interview prospective RA's. 
"It's not a personality type," said Sr. Karol Jackowski, di­rector of residence life. "We want someone who is enjoyable to be with and has a potential for leadership in all areas -ac­ademic, social and religious. Basically, we want a good com­munity builder." 
"We want someone who has a strong sense ofselfand values," explained Moira Baker, rector of Lewis Hall. 
The list ofan RA's duties is as long as the lisr of his or her qualities. Both SMC and ND have certain established hours when the RA is "on call" but RAs are expected to go beyond this. Each RA is expected to go through a series of workshops and meetings. In addition, they are required to attend weekly hall meetings. 
Each RA is expected to be available to the students in his section and to know them well enough to foresee problems and to help them should the need arise. An RA is also re­quired to maintain good orJer in the hall and to uphold school policies without becoming a "police-type" RA. 
"We want people to enjoy living here," Fr. Green com­mented. "We don't encourage surveillance of the rooms. We want to protect the privacy of our students." 
"We don't want policing of the hallways. Instead we en­courage the RA to follow with an appropriate action if some­
thing is brought to her atten­tion-appropriate is the key word here." 
The benefits received by the RAs as compensation for for their services differs greatly between the two schools. ND provides their RAs with full room and board. At SMC, a returning RA makes $600 per semester, while a rookie earns $550. 
"That's one thing I would change about our system and hopefully, it will have changed by next year," Sr. Jackowski said. "But it's good to know they are not in it for the money." 
Overall, both schools see the RA system as a very successful one. 
"I was talking with a transfer student and he said that what we have here is far superior to what he saw at the college he was attending," said Fr. Thaddeus Swertz, rector of Holy Cross HalL 
-'!:..·
... 

.\_ 



-nNoDavs 
OneNignt $43.25* 

If you're Sugar Bowl bound, you're b~.md to love our special Sugar Bowl package: 
•A 
beautiful deluxe room with a view of the Gulf or our tropical pool. 

•A 
bottle of champagne when \fOL arrive. 

•Pnme 
Rib or Seaf.Jod a Ia Hilton 1n the elegan Rib Royal. 


•After dlnner;·'0ance the n1qht away in the Le Chic Lu:... ·qe. We'll party til: ua.vn f\Jew Year's Eve. 
• The next morning. we''/ treat you to a continenal breakfast 1n bed. including a famous ·'Hilton Hamr'ler': 
You'll love the Biloxi ~ilton, so if you want to stay over for the weekend, we LJrder­stand. Extra nights are )niy $21.50 per person, room only. 
"Based on per person double occupancy Taxes and qra1u1t1es nol rncludea A. depas11 IS requrred w11h all reservai!Qns Regular 1oom rates $SO srnqle $56 double 
W Beach Blvd /81loxr. MS 39531/(601) 388-7000 
For reservations and information, call toll free: Indiana Hilton Reservation Service 1-800-543-.7222 
SPECIAL 

Dec. 15, 16, 17 
From ND CIRCLE 
To 

CHICAGO O'HARE 
EXPRESS! 

Depts Circle  6:10a.m. 11:15 a.m.  
2:45 p.m.  
Arrives O'Hare  8:15 p.m. 1:20 p.m. 4:50 p.m.  

ro Your lndivicuol 
Airline Gate 
Return 
(Jon.11,12) 

Depts 9:45 a.:n. 0'Hare 4:45 p. rn. 
8:00 p.m. 

<Bo Jrd Lower Level Corscm·s :ircle Restr::~urr:mt) 
$15 One Way $28 round trip 
Buy Your Ticket From Your Driver 
INDIANA MOTORBUS 



'fhe Observer 
Jan. 26concert 

SUsets guidelines for Springsteen tickets 

...Tankers 
By Earl Rix 

Tickets for theJan. 26 Bruce Springsteen concert will be distributed through a slightly different lottery system than has been employed in the past, Student Union Director Rich Coppola said. He also detailed p!ans for New Years festivities in New Orleans for ND-SMC students who travel to the Sugar Bowl on the Student Union­sponsored trip. 

The lottery for tickets to
I ·~ 
Springsteen concert will begin
I 
I . 
' at 9:30a.m. Friday, Dec. 12 at Steppan Center. "By special arrangement with
i ' ' 
. 
the ACC and concert promoters 
: ' we expect to sell between four and five thousand tickets to students. We usually get only 1000 or 1500 tickets," said Coppola. The students are actually being given a shot at the tickets before they are be­in!! put on sale. We hope t~ be able to satisfy all student de­

mand.'' 

The format of the lottery has also been changed from the usual procedure. Lottery par­. ticipants will be limited to four tickets apiece, instead of the usual ten, and must pay in full at 
the time of the lottery. 

"Ordinarily the lottery just gets you a place in line to buy tickets," Coppola said. "This time you must fill out an ap­plication and pay for the tic­kets. The tickets will be dis­tributed after break. 
"This way you don't have to 
worry about buying your tic­
kets early in the morning or late 
in the afternoon according to 
your number as you did be­
fore," he added. "The tickets 
will be waiting for you. 

"According to their lottery 
number students will get a 
choice of seats. We will an-
r----------------,
t ARE YOU ENGAGED?' 
'I t 
t 
t Marriage preparation is offered through the office of Campus Ministry for undergraduate and graduate 
students. Spring weekends are: ··.) t Jan. 23-24 Feb: 13-14

t 
Feb. 27-28
t 
Place: fatima Retreat House Cost: $50 per couple
. t 


t 
S1gn-up: Campus Ministry, 103 Memoricllibrary 
G TING SENIORS: 
' 
I I
,i 
Are you still undecided on howto best spend your first year or two after graduation? 
The HolyCrossAssociates Program is a service-oriented organization which gives young Christians a one or two year opportunity to explore a life of lay ministry. 
If you wish to explore the challenge of Holy Cross Associates, Please Contact: Holy Cross Associates Volunteer Services 
Moreau Seminary Lafortune Ext. 4397 Ext.7308 

i 
COMMITMENT
l 
1 
~ I to· 
i CARING 
t 
t t t t t t 
nounce ticket prices later this week " said Coppola. 
The Student Union is also sponsoring various activities in New Orleans in conjunction with the Sugar Bowl. 
The Student Union is spon­soring happy hours Tuesday, Dec. 30, and Wednesday, Dec. 31 between noon and 9 p.m. in the various bars comprising Molly's at the Market. 
The New Orleans Alumni Association is sponsoring a combined pep rally and New Year's Eve party in the River­front Collesium. 
The Student Union will be renting convention rooms in the Superdome for a party be­tween 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. before the game, during halftime, and after the game. 
"To get to the party before noon people must go through the Hyatt Regency. The party will have a band, beer, mixed drinks and food for all who wish to attend," said Tom Drouil­lard, student union social di­rector. 
Tickets to both the Colle­sium and Superdome parties can be purchased at both the Alumni Association hospitality room in the New Orleans Hilton and the Student Union hospitality room at the Mid­town Quality Inn. 
Sugar bowl packets are no longer available but students may contact the student union ticket office if they wish to be put on a waiting list for a very limited number of hotel rooms and spaces on buses leaving from South Bend and Chicago. 
Droullard reminds students that the student union bus will depart South Bend from the Main Circle and suggests that students contact the student union ticket office after Tues­day for the specific departure point from Chicago. 

AS AN AIR FORCE NURSE 
A new world of nursing opens when you become an Air Force nurse. You are committPrl to the "'P1' • -members and their dependents. With worldwide en•l-'•vym~• 1t and travel opportunities, you'll receive a highly competitive pay and compensation package. 
If you're pursuing a bachelor of science degree in nursing and are qualified, you could become a member of the USAF Nurse Corps through Air Force ROTC. You may also be eligible for an AFROTC two-year nursing scholarship which pays full tuition, lab and incidental fees, books, plus $100 a month tax-free. During the last two years of AFROTC, you will receive $100 a month tax-free during the school year even if not on 
scholarship. So while working for your degree, consider the advantages of Air Force ROTC and the exciting world of an Air Force nurse. • 
:ROTC 
} Gateway to a great way of life. 
j 
t 
Monday, December 8, 1980-page 8 

(continued fnm page 18) 
John Carroll prevailed in 
3:18.0. The Irish finished in 
3:18.9 and Stevens Point was third in 3:19.0. 
Yet the Irish had to be asking themselves "What if?" What if junior Don Casey had not dis­qualified his relay team in the meet's second event, the 400­yard individual medley relay? That DQ gave the Irish no points on the scoreboard and forced them to play catch-up all night. Casey was called for going under water during the breaststroke leg of the event. 
"That's a real judgement call," said Komora. "It's always hard to tell ifthe swimmer went under the water or if a wave just passed over him." 

The Irish will get a chance to display the returning talent they possess when they open their regular season Wednesday night with a dual meet against visiting Western Michigan. The meet is slated for 4 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Pool. 
... Clash 
(continued from page 3) 
that afternoon was a "misun­
derstanding." 
Observer Managing Editor Mark Rust disputed Trotta's. charges. "We read every single quote to (the student who was quoted) over the phone," he said. "They knew everything that was going in. We did this to avoid such misunderstaw· even though it is not gt.ut..~·•Y our policy to let people outside our staff to see a story just prior to publication. We made this exception because of the ser­ious nature of the charges which the students specifically said they planned to take to court and which occasioned the story. 
"In this matter The Observer has acted in a manner consis­tent with the canons of good journalism. We stand by our reporter and our editing of the story," Rust concluded. 
Trotta said that the matter would not be pursued any further. "We don't have any problems with the police, with Roemer, or with The Observer," he said. 
Observer People: for directions to tht Observer Party 
(and tickets) 
see Shirley 


_-...~_ __ .:-~ 0: ,..,-.,

"' .. -.-: ---.,._ -............ . ' 
The Observer Monday, December 8, 1980-page 9 
BOGOTA, Colombia(AP)­Venezuela form a rough hour­
The possibility of a major glass, with Venezueia's oil-rich discovery of offshore oil is Gulf of Maracaibo on the bot­fueling a border dispute be­tom half of the hourglass, and
Colun1bia, 
tween Colombia and Vene­the Gulf of Venezuela on the zuela, two longtime friends. top half. Both sides talk unofficially of Colombia borders only a armed conflict. small piece of the northwest
Venezuela 
A former Colombian minister part of the upper half of the of defense claims an estimated hourglass. But it is in that 20 billion barrelsofoil are in the offshore area and to the north disputed area. Geologists say along the continental shelf in
dispute 
that rock formations and other the Caribbean that geologists indicators are promising, but say there is an excellent chance that exploratory wells will have of finding lots of oiL to be drilled to determine ex­The present law of the sea 
actly what is there. ordinarily would fix a boundary 
Exploratory drilling has been equidistant between Colombia held up for almost 20 years and Venezuela. The line would because Colombia and Vene­enter from the Caribbean, head 
border oil 
zuela both claim the area or south into the mouth of the parts of it. Gulf of Venezuela and then Two larg~ gulfs in western move sharply toward the west-
rights 

EdRyafl ofNotr~ Dttme bursts of!left tackle for a suhsttmsia/gain in Sat11rday's ((ame played in suddenly mowy so1tlhern California (r~>hoto by Rachel B!rmnt). · < · • 
))(~~~I·t 
liMtJ• 

~sf, .~1-it~tld. 
Get two desserts for the price of one when you visit us this evening with a friend. Mmmm. what sweet temptation_ 
Time: H:OO rm-1.2:00 am Place: Huddle Icc Cream Shoppe 
ern short of the gulf to a point 
where the common border of 
the two countries begins. 
But because Venezuela bor­
ders 90 percent ofthe gulf, both 
sides apparently have recog­
nized that the maritime border 
in the northern gulf should be 
much closer to Colombia than 
to Venezuela, Colombian new­
spapers have reported. 
PresidentsJulio Cesar Turbay 
of Colombia and Luis Herrera 
of Venezuela are to meet next 
Wednesday in Honduras and 
discuss the dispute. They will be 
in there for the signing of a 
peace treaty between El Salva­
dor and Honduras. 
Colombia and Venezuela 
"are on the verge of an in­
ternational conflict" and "Ven­
ezuela is preparing its people 
St.Helen 's fumes again 
VANCOUVER, Wash. (AP)-· Mount St. Helens spewed steam and ash to 9,000 feet Sunday, then hummed with harmonic tremors for 20 minutes, authorities said. 
The steam blew from the volcano at 1:22 p.m., tsaid U.S. Forest Service dispatcher psychologicaJly for a war with Colombia," retired Gen. Al­berto Ruiz, a former Colom­bian minister of defense and president of Colombia's Asso­ciation of Retired Military Officers, claimed recently. 
"Now is the time to get ready to turn back any threat or intimidation by Venezuela's military," the general said in a broadcast interview. 
Late last month Venezuela's defense minister, Gen. Tomas Abreu, was quoted as saying in an interview with the official news agency Vmpre.r.r that Venezuela "is ready to defend the sovereignty and integrity of its territory" and that its "armed forces are ready to carry out that duty at any moment.·· 
Kathy Anderson. The state-­controlled red zone area re­mained open for timber salvage through the afternoon. how­ever. 
The volcano also produced about an hour of harmonic tremors earHer in the day. A seismometer stationed on the volcano's east dome began recording the tremors at 3:24 a.m., said A.B. Adams, a spokesman for the University of Washington geophysics center in Seatrle. 
Adams said the tremors ''were very low, more like grumbles 


OISCRIMlNAllN(; MIN H. WOII.tfN 
-Soulh Rend lndoano 466:11 
HAIIISICIS Fll 111 _
Jf· sms !f 232-6622 
l.a7L_sount_ND 

SOPHOMORE SKI TRIP AT SUGAR LOAF MOUNTAIN Feb. 13, 14, 15 $1 0 Nonrefundable Deposits taken Wed., Dec. 10 First Floor LaFortune, 7-9 p.m. $69 Balance Due Jan. 22 
Includes: Transportation, Lodging, Lift Tickets 
86 PLACES AVAILABLE 




Special Holy Day Mass FEAST OF caftV'IIII.c

-::.:r.­

IMMACUlATE CONCEPTION ma.~..ry 
Monday, December 8 11:30 a.m.-5:15 p.m. Sacred Heart Church 
Check Hall Bulletin Boards for Times of Masses in Dorms 



~ ·­

. . 
~, • 

The Observer 
' 
:!1 
•I 
,, 
_l 
., 
Monday, December 8, 1980-page 10 

now"' in the status of U.S. forces. Soviet Foreign Ministry officials in Moscow were un­available for comment Sunday night on the White House statement. 
Previous reports from Washington of Soviet military

~----------~ ~----------------------~~----------, 
buildups and alerts on the Polish border have been denied by Soviet officials. 
Soviet President Leonid I. Brezhnev left· Moscow on Sunday for a visit to India, and was spending the night en route to India in the Soviet Central Asian city of Tashkent. 
Some Western diplomats here have expressed doubt that any major decisions would be taken regarding Poland until Brezhnev returns to Moscow later this week. 
"The president of the United States is in full charge of the conduct of our foreign relations during this interregnum period," Allen said. "The president-elect has indicated he does not want to interfere in any way, shape or form with the conduct of foreign policy and will back the initiatives taken by President Carter in the defense of our foreign policy issues." 
Allen also said he did not believe the United States i!nd its 
western allies would be able to conduct "business as usual" 
with the Soviets in the event of a Polish invasion. 

IVE A BOOK FOR CHRISTMAS 
A LASTING GIFT FOR THAT 
SPECIAL PERSON ! ! ! 
'I 
' I', I I :III 
t, 
' 
hu111or, art, religion, sports etc. Also assorted blank book 
i 
j 
















Features 
Monday, December 8, 1980-page 11 

Your Christm.as m.ovie guide 
REEl. REVIEWS 
Ryan Ver Berkmoes 

Wn"ters note: Each week's review is accompanied by a Pat Byrnes zllustration that corresponds to the film's overall quality. 
The Christmas season is a time 
Below is a rundown ofthe symbols and their meanings: 
when the cinematic floodgates open and a deluge of films pour forth. Multitudes of people with vacation · time go to the theatres in an effort to alleviate the boredom of fun that often sets in. With the shear quantity 
' of product offered, the prospective movie goer is faced with a bewj}­
To be avoided A real snoozer As exciting Worth seeing, Not to be dering variety of choices. Presented 
at all costs as knitting a solid~ effort missed, a classic here are reviews ofthe season's major realeases. Good luck. · 
"Popeye" "Seems Like 

"Well blow me 
Old Times"
down!" That mus­
cle-bound man of 
Chevy Chasespinach has made it proves to be the to the silver screen. 

scene-stealerThe results are so everyone thoughtgood that even he was in this en­Whimpy might tke joyable comedytime out from his burgers to notice. 
penned by Neil
Almost everyone is familiar with the Simon. The prem­
Sam J. Jones as Flash Gordon.

Popeye saga,those who grew up ise has Chevy Chase in role writtenduring the age of television have his just for him, a man in his e~rly thirtiesgarbled utterences etched into their who refuses to forsake the carefree


brains after endless veiwings after "Flash Gordon"
joys of puberty. Goldie Hawn (whoschool. They're all here, only a loon co-starred so succesfully with Chase
like Robin Williams could portray THE major film
in Foul Play) is cast as Chase's ex-wife
Popeye with the amount of hyper­of the season, it
who finally forsook a life of lunacyactivity necessary. Fish-eyed Shelly 
with Chase for a more responsible life fortunately avoids 
Duvall falls into her role as Olive Oyl being THE rnajor
as a lawyer married to a dead-serious
perfectly; she also (unfortunately for disaster. The
upward mobile district attorney.
Ms. Duvall) looks just like her. The movie is a flashy,
Chase is framed for a bank heist 
rest; Bluto, Sweetpea, etc. benefit fast-paced, fun-fill­
(see Stir Crazy) and flees irresponsibly


from a talented cast of character ed event. Although
from the law into the life of his ex­
actors. The movie is director Robert some may label it as popcorn for the
wife. This provides the situation for
Altman's attempt at salvaging his still another one of Neil Simon's mind , it is definitely fresh-popped floundering career, luckily for him he and well-buttered. The movie suc­
tightly-written witty comedies.
succeeds. This is another one to take Chase mugs for the camera, stumbles ceeds by being faithful to the original your little brother too. Big kids classic serial of the '30s. For those of
over assorted objects, and spews
should like it as well. It's played for you who were held captive by the
forth an endless stream of wise
laughs on all levels including some Clay People and are unfamiliar with
cracks. In this kind of role Chase is
playfully wry social comment. Seeing the original, Flash Gordon (originally
second to none.]okes abound in such
Popeye down some spinach and belt played by one time Tarzan Buster
quantity that you'll probably missBluto alone is worth the ticket. some due to your laughing at others. Krabb, and portrayed here by Sam]. A scene in which the governor comes Jones) and his comely companion 

Dale (Melody Anderson) are kidnap­to dinner is totally wild. This is a

"The Jazz Singer" definite holiday must. ped by Dr. Hans Zarkov and whisked off to the planet Mongo to face the Let slt'eping devious Ming the Merciless. The

Bo Derek attempts to influence a profin
dogs lie. Obviously resulting deluge of earthquakes,
"A Change of Seasons" (see below). "First Family"

no-one associated calamities, and cliffhangers kept a with this mess ever generation offilmgoers coming back


An inept fool 
heard that phrase. "A Change of Seasons" leading the coun­week after week. Noted producer The original was Dina De Laurentis (noted for a string
try? An alcoholic 
the first talking of big budget duds (King Kong, and
Shirley MacLaine First Lady? A 
picture ever made. Hurricane) salvages his reputation.
does a reprisal of nymphomaniac
Now fifty years later, Neil Diamond The film has the right amount of
the role she played First Daughter? 
comes along intent on recycling it. camp and a fast enough action-filled

in last month's Sound familiar? 
Obviously the result got jammed in pace to satisfy everyone; both you
Loving Couples. The The answer to that question is best 
the cogs. Laurence Olivier adds new and your hyper seven-year-old
movie bills itself as left political writers; however the 
fuel to the rumors that this once great brother you always end up taking to
a sophisticated premise is the basis for this movie. 
has gone stale and possibly senile. His the movies at Christmas. The one
comedy, unfortu­Dullard Bob Newhart is elected 
portrayal as AI )olsen's father is unanswered question: will adiences
nately pure dribble and sophistica­president after his opponent dies in a 
reminiscent of a box. Diamond as AI respond in hordes large enough to
tion are mutually exclusive. Essen­car aash. So he and his family (wife 
)olsen sings a lot. dons blackface, but make this movie merely episode one?
tially the plot has MacLaine's hus­Madelyn Kahn, and daughter Gilda 
does little else of merit. 

band Anthony Hopkins running after Radner) move into the White House


The rest of the cast are best left to 
that gifted thespian Bo Derek (the and proceed to lead the nation on a
slink away from this, and try to 
woman with many attributes). In roller coaster of ride of scandal and "Stir Crazy"remove the stains from their careers. 
retaliation, the aging MacLain pur-· stupidity. Considering recent his­
After initial screenings, the distribu­
sues a younger man, and then the tory, this idea is all to plausible. The A film aimed at ters were so horrified at what they saw 
snore begins. Comedies with adultery film was written and directed by off­the post-adoles­that quite literally, those responsible as their theme have been funny in the beat Buck Henry (one ofthe creators cent market,for it were sacked and it was re-edited past (witness Same Time Next Year). of Get Smart). The results are pre­Richard Pryor at great expense. The results are so However, this film is the latest of a dictably unusual and slightly non­(preacddent) and dull, so long, and incoherent, that I recent trend that attempt to milk mainsteam. This effect is re-enforced Gene Wilder (re­shudder to think what the original laughs at the expense of people who by the unconventional cast. In gen, member Silver was like. Their are several songs of do not view adultery as a God-given eral, it's a biting satire smothered by a Streak?) team up in 


some merit within this miscarraige, As a audiences (who predictably solid effort. a
right. result, blanket of bizarreness, this is not a a Using
which means the film is bound to 
mostly either disapprove of, or feel film everybody will like those scheme all cons claim to have been 
become another Xanadu; a rotten 
guilty about adultery) tend not to be familiar with the work of any of the victims of, the pair is framed for a movie which bombs, but a sound­amused at paying four dollars to be cast members, or ofHenry, will enjoy bank heist. What could have been a track that lives on in the Top 40 belittled. Those of you still com­it. Conservative audience members gripping drama about survivingcharts for what seems like eternity. 
pelled to see this stillborn effort will probably call it weird. In all a prison, is instead a pretty funny film. 

better hurry, after opening for a uniquely funny film that's an alter­The plot is laden with bizzare situa-
Christmas run in Chicago, it was native to it's more polished breth­
More reviews on page 14 pulled after one week.· eren. [continued on page 14} 
• 




···················~ 
WinnersofJ 

oto 



1st PLACE 

In search ofdistinctive, l photos, The Observer's 1 Departments sponsoredaco were judgedDecember 2 by 2 
were judged/or their origina 
quality. 

Congratulations to the w~ 
i 
who entered. 

(I 
I I 
il 
q : 



page 13 
rhe Observer's 


3rd Place--Twila Kitchin 
·Tom Donley 
1/ack-and-white, student -snapped fleatures andPhotoRraphy ~ntest in mid-November. Entries the two Departments. Photographs 
lity, aesthetic appeal, and technical 
inners, and thanks to everyone ­


~-..,.------~-------~ 
--------------------------------------------------~--------­














Features 
Monday, December 8, 1980 -page 14 

REEL REVIEWS 
•
tnore tnovtes 

fcontinued from page 11] "Nine to Five" 
tions and a multitude of sight gags, Dolly Parton has that give it a totally screwball plot. long been the vic­The secret to it's success is a result of tim of many jokes actual talent and not luck. Scene after aimed at her out­scene could have been really stupid, standingness. Ms. fortunately, the filmakers knew they Parton gets re­were and played them as such, rather venge at the pun­than doing as most do and pretending sters with her per­they are comedy classics. To use a formance as a disgruntled secretary; word often abused and emasculated she is outstanding. In addition to by promoters, the film is truly zany. Parton the film stars Lily Tomlin and 
famous liberal Jane Fonda. Predic­Dolly Parton, Jane Fonda, and Lily Tomlin assault their boss (see left). tably, considering Fonda's presence, "Raging Bull" the film has a distinctly anti-q1ale two. Her indignation at this false­two years ago when Eastwood teamed tinge; this is more than proper, hood is her role's basis but what she up with an Orangutan for a piece of The discriminat­however, since the nemisis of the does with it shows the makings of a fluff called Every Which Way But Loose. three stars is their boss, a distinctly major star. • The result was a major hit. His next
ing movie-goer 
who desires an in­slimey fellow (Dabney Coleman) who The film is quite enjoyable, and effort Bronco Billy was much better is sexist, chauvanistic, and all those provides an all too-accurate look at and funnier-too bad nobody went to
tellectually stim­
ualating experi­other maladies males so often suffer office life in the real world. see it. Now in time for Christams, ence will find one from. Thefilmhasanumberofclassic Clint and his gang are back, con­here. Clearly one confrontations as it's foundations; founding macho adolescents who try of the best this ear, man vs. woman, worker vs. boss, and "Any Which Way to emulate him, with an even fluffier 
rich vs. poor. Completely fed up with sequel to Every Which Way ... 
the film gives youthful Robert their boss's improprieties, the trio The film is abuzz with the likes ofDeNiro still more feathers in his al­end up individually fanatasizing You Can" motercycle gangs and ruffians, butready bulging professional cap. 
DeN iro portrays Jake La Motta, a about how to do in the creep. These Eastwood and his ape prevail and all veritable "missing link," La Motta three sequences are yummy little Perhaps Clint live happily ever after. Those who 
Eastwood has a wry 

was a boxer in the 1940s who had very pieces of revenge. liked the first will find satisfaction, few socially redeeminges. qualities. All the principals are excellent in little smile on his others are better off staying home 

face over the titletheir roles. Fonda's rendition of an and watching Dirty Harry on T.V.
DeNiro gained sixty pounds just for 
this role, an example of the dedi­up-tight divorcee is hauntingly fa­of his movie; the miliar of those people always in front irony of it is too
cation of this genius to total charac­
ter portrayal. The results are a of you in grocery stores. As said profound. Once 
before though, the suprise is Dolly upon a time East­The Observer features department wel­moving portrait ofa man bent on self­wood stoically rode about the West comes our readers to submit story ideas forParton. Her character is an executivedestruction. The film is in black and secretary whose boss (the slime men­blasting badmen. Of late he seems to possible incorporation into our pages. Ifyouwhite which only adds to the emo­
over new have a concept you think we would like, 

tional richness of this cinematic tioned earlier) is spreading sugges­have turned a leaf crea­
tively; the former gunmal). now fan­don't hesitate to call our offices at 283·
tions about the office about a pos­classic. 
sible romantic linkage between the cies himself a funman. It all started 8661 and ask for either Molly or Ryan. 
Twas the Night Before Finals
' ' ' 
by Mary Clare Brady 

Twas the last days offinals andall promoted commericialism and be­turned my head to reply, I was retired is that I am never in a through the college, not a student guiled both children and parents. surprised to see the older man who I hurry.'' His charm was overwhelm­was thinking nor even sought know­My humbug attitude caused me to had noticed on the rink earlier. He ing; its warmth melted my resis­ledge. The entire Saint Mary's look at Christmas decorations with a had a warm, disarming smile and tance.A wink ofhz's eye and a twt'st .::ampus was numb, oddly paralized, jaundiced eye and listen to carols the beardofhis chin was as white as of ht's head/Soon gave me to know as iffrozen by the cold, unsympathe­with a sarcastic ear. Worse still, it the snow. His eyes how they that I nothing to dread. cic snow which surrounded tt. Al­had nearly killed my sense of humor twinkled (behind black-framed glas­The next thing to appear before though it was less than a week and twisted my imagination. I ses),his dimples how merry! His my "wondering eyes" was Archie's before Christmas, the school had no thought to myself: The students cheeks were like roses and his nose BRIGHT RED station wagon. I 
holiday warmth. 

were all weary, all worn li~e old li~e a chetry. He was dressed in a blinked and half-expected to see a 
Inside the dormitory, the scene thread, while visions of blue books red and black plaid lumberman's team of reindeer, but saw only a few was even more chiling. Many of the filled them with dread. My mind was jacket and wore a black beret on his birds and squirrels as we drove students had already left for home still functioning, but I was in head. He was a slender, tall man, so along. When we turned onto Saint 
I and only a few weary survivors in desparate need of a remedy for lively and quiCk, I knew in a moment Mary's .Avenue, I became aware of a 
habited the building. I was one of holiday melancholy. he must be Saint Nic~. transformation. The "lustre of mid­Ithose unfonunate few. At its best, Experience had taught me that the The white-bearded gentleman's day'' around us was dazzling; the · my room was very small· at its best antidote for an overworked name was not Nick; he introduced sun, which had hidden its face for post-finals worst, it rr.sembl~d a cell. brain ,was physical exertion. I rea­himself to me as ''Archie. '' Archie, days, shone brightly. Softly falllingDuring the last week, its walls had soned that a trip to the Notre Dame as I learned in the course of snowflakes, caught in the sun's rays,begun to close in on me. Signs of the ice rink might be good medicine. conversation, was a Notre Dame glittered like diamond dust, .As the J recent . war I had waged with With this notion in mind, I began to professor emeritus of geolo~y. Curi­car rolled slowly to a stop, I heardIacademta were everywhere: crum­hunt for my ice skates. Away to my osity prompted me to ask htm if he the bells of Saint Mary's chiming in 
, pled sheets of legal paper, dog-eared skated at ''Not as the distance.
closet, I flew li~e a flash/Tore open the ACC often. 
I notebooks, and tea-stained ceramic the doors and searched through its often as I would like,'' Archie With difficulty, I thanked .Archie mugs. My typewriter, conspicuous cache. My search was quickly re­replied, "When I'm not here I work for the ride and wished him a 
with its rows of white-capped teeth 
warded and I soon found myself with underprivileged children or "Merry Christmas". I wanted to grinned at me ~ideously. ' 
aboard a shuttle bound for the ACC. entenain the neighborhood kid~. I'm explain why I was grateful to him,To escape this mockery, I switched At ftrst, this excursion seemed the neighborhood grandpa. I also but couldn t ftnd the words. I left Jn the radio, which promptly began doomed to failure. Christmas carols have etght daughters and many Saint Mary's in search of a cure for
1·:o taunt me with Christmas carols. blared in my ears when I stepped grandchildren of my own. Besides the holiday blues and returned IThe anticipation ofChristmas did not onto the ice. In addition to sagging skating, swimming and scuba diving infected with Christmas cheer. .Ar­
i distract me from my work; rather, it spirits, I discovered that I was also are other hobbies which I enjoy.'' By chie's Christmas spirit was conta­i contributed to my distraction. The 
suffering from sagging ankles. Un­the time Archie had ftnished telling gious; his generosity taught me the :;ound of Bing's voice merrily croon­accustomed to exercise, they buckled me about himself, we were standing meaning of Christmas. Earlier in the ing White Chn'stmas while I labored underneath me as I dragged myself outside of the building. ince I had day, I had judged Santa Claus a ·with my term papers was enough to around the rink. My progress on the planned to take the shuttle back to fraud. I repealed this hasty convic­make me break out in hives. I was ice was slow and !amful; ~ other school, I started to bid my new tion. Saint Nicholas was no fraud; he convinced that Christmas was not a akaters quickll passe my by. Out of acquaintance good-bye. He inter­was a real person, alive and well and Christian holiday, but an invention the corner o my eye, I saw an rupted me by offering to drive me living in South Bend. And I exclaim­
·of the devil designed to tempt me elderly gentleman skating with the back to Saint Mary's. I was unaccus­edto myself, ere Archie's red wagon away from my work. Santa Claus, ease of a much younger person. tomed to accepting rides from stran­drove away, "Merry Chn'stmas to 

a.k.a. Kris Kringle or Saint Nicho­Later, asd I was ~ingerly unlacing gers, so I protested: "It would take All and to AJJ a Good Day!'' 
las, was no "jolly old elf'', but a my skates, a votce behind me you out of your way.'' Arch.ie fraud and a felon. As an agent for inquired, "Would you like to use my reassured me, "No, not at all. One Mary Clare Brady graduated from department store merchants, he towel to dry your blades?" When I of the nicest things about · being Saint Mary's last year 

·~ 

Ihe ObserYer= 
Campus 
• 9-4 p.m. -chri1:>tmas pottery sale through dt-c. 12, o'shag hallway. 
•9:3~4:30 p.m. -unicef card sale, library lob b)'. 
• 3:30p.m. -economics dept workshop: "a case study of consumer safety sta.tr·· dards," prof. barry keating, 400 mem. lib. 
6: 30 p.m. -meeting: alpha phi omega, rm. 2-d Iafortune. 
• 
7 p.m. -"an evening of one-act plays: nd-smc theater directing finals, washington hall, admission free. 

• 
7 p.m. -film: charlie 



chaplin in "monsieur . verdoux", the snite aud. 
• 7:30 p.m. -basketball: 
nd women vs. saint mary's, ace. 
• 
7:30 p.m. -meeting: faculty senate, 202 cce. 

• 
8 p.m. -lecture: "sub­liminal seduction in adver­tising," wilson bryan key, lib. aud. 

• 
8 p.m. -placement bureau orientation, meeting for all nd grad students. 

• 
8 p.m. -lecture: "how to say no to a rapist and survive," fred storaska, carroll hall at smc. 



Willeminto speak to grad 
studerlts 
Richard D. Willemin, director of the Notre Dame Placement Bureau, will present a short talk at 8 p.m. tonight in the basement of Wilson Commons. The talk is directed at graduate students, with the goal of informing them of how they can make the best use of the job-finding resources made available by his office. This presentation is the first in a series of job-hunting seminars presented by the Graduate Student Union, the representative organization of the Notre Dame graduate community. The series will con­tinue next semester. Allgraduate students and faculty members are urged to attend. Admission is free. 
Monday, December 8, 1980-page 15 
Molarity 
·------------.



-. 
Michael Molinelli 





ARMY ROTC PROVIDES 
meritscholarships -up to $10,000 !II leadership development 
CALL
managementtraining 
{119) 183-6;264
adventure 
employment opportunity Graduatefrom Notre Dame as an Army Officer 
ACROSS 31 Ocean: abbr. 1 Extremities 32 Idolater 5 Gather 34 Geologic

The Daily Crossword 
together layers 

9 Tun 35 Signorina's 13 Concerning change 14 Evangelist 37 Outcast 
McPherson 39 Ladies with 15 Yvette's habits 
friend 40 Turn aside 16 Visage 42 Fertilizer 17 Serious 44 Dutch 
absorption commune 19 Der Alte 45 Onewho 21 Game leaves 
results a will 22 Nonsense! 47 Malicious 23 Feather person 
scarf 49 New Deal 24 Attack an org. insect 50 Part of old 26 Hideous Palestine 
Toda_y's Puzzle Solved' 
© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd.lnc.All Rights Reserved 

51 Layers 55 Reckless driver 58 Sheets and 
towels 60 Peso 61 Relaxation 62 French 
river 63 Spanish river 
64 Dutch landscape feature 
65 Assign 66 Lectern 
DOWN 1 -bean 2 Geraint's 
spouse 3 EddieAI­bert show 
4 Dramatic trumpet intro 
5 Covers 
with mud 6 Cupid 7 Stitch 8 Stimulu'S · '· 
device 9 Roman statesman 10 River in Asia 
11 Word with effects or kick 12 Low reefs 
14 Act of 
touching 18 Neck warmer 20 Don't 
give­23 Stephen Vincent­24 Slapping 
sound 25 Forego 26 Horse 
relative 
27 Charged atom 28 Strauss 
composition 29 Aonstadt 30 Canvas 
support 33 Capital of 
Liguria 36 Linkletter 38 Turn about 41 Aunt: Fr. 43 Uncommon 46 Very sad 48 Required 50 Cleric 51 Stockholm's 
land: abbr. 52 Asian 
language 53 Venture 54 Fits to­55 Sorority 
resident 56 Bobbles 57 Castle 59 Full of: 
suff. 

; 
... ~ ........,~ .., --: • 
' 
\ 
-------------.. ------------·-----------. 
'fheObserver Monday, December 8, 1980-page 16 
IIAIIHIIA STHBSANO 
IllY 
fealuring: 
WhiiiiiKind OfFool (Dudwilh 


BanyGiiJb) 
........ 

BARBRA STREISAND GUllTV CBS 898 SERIES 
CHEAP TRICK 
ALL SHOOK UP 
includi"9: 
I loveYou HoneyBut I Hate Your Friends Who o· King/Workfs Greatestlover Stop This Game/High Priest OfRhythmic Noise 
.. _---::) 

MONTY PYTHON'S TANYA TUCKER DREAMLOYERS CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATION ALBUM MCA 898 SERIES ARISTA 898 SERIES • 
CHEAP TRICK All SHOOK UP


EPIC 898 SERIES 


THE ALAN PARSONS PROJECT THE OAK RIDGE BOYS THE TURN OF A FRIENDLY CARD GREATEST HITS MCA 898 SERIES 
ARISTA 898 SERIES 
Givethegift ofmusic. 

STEVIE WONDER HOTTER THAN JULY TAMLA 898 SERIES 
2-RECORO SET 
BRUCE SPRIIGSTEEI 
THE RIVER 
lnduding: Hungry Heart 
1M Rivet 
Dldillac Ranch 
Sherry Oarli"9 
~Toes That Bmd 


Includes TOCCATA VIVALDI FIFO HOTTA 
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN THE RIVER ­
SKY CBS 1598 SERIES 
HEAD EAST U.S.1 
ARISTA 998 SERIES 
A&M 798 SERIES 
Album

Album 



PICTURED ITEM ONLY PICTURED ITEM ONLY PICTURED ITEM ONLY
• 


r 
I 
~ 
l
, I 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

Sports Special-A Season toRemember Monday, December 8, 1980---pag~ 17 
------------------------------'------------~.:;_..._~ --­

Se•tior quarterback Mike Cm~rey played the first ten quarters ofthe year and the final two. 
Notre Dame's defense went 23 straight quarters without surrendering a touchdown. 

Jim Strme was ready when called upon, after Phil Carter bruised his iHP at Michigan St. 

Dave Duerson returnedthis interception at Arizona during Notre Dame'sfirst night game in fitie years. 
Who could have guessed that the Irish would be playing the only 11-0 team in the country on New Year's Day? 
After all, the AP and the UPI left Notre Dame out of their pre-season Top Ten, and Sports Illustrated could find no room for this team in their Top 25. 
Indeed, 1980 was a season of surprises for Notre Dame football-a stunning rise to the top followed by a disheartening fall. Perhaps when Heisman-hopeful Mark Herrmann missed the season opener with a sprained thumb, it was an omen of what was to come. And then Harry Oliver's 51-yard miracle kick against Michi­gan -dreams were made to come true. 
A 33-0 whitewashing of Navy, combined with losses by the top-ranked Crimson Tide and No.2 UCLA, propelled the third-ranked Irish into the top spot on November 3. Alabama was still two weeks down the road. 
Georgia Tech surprised Notre Dame in. Atlanta with what most called a "3-3 loss." Yet that didn't seem to take much ofthe magic from the Alabama game the following week, as thousands turned out to welcome their heroes home from Birmingham. 
A seemingly lethargic victory over hapless Air Force followed. That night, Dan Devine's final Notre Dame team was rewarded for their efforts with an invitation to the Sugar Bowl in a possible National Championship classic. 
The Irish title hopes died hard, however, in the Los Angeles Coliseum where the inspired Southern Cal Trojans ended a dream. 
A New Year's date in New Orleans will be some consolation to Devine and his men who came so close. As the coach said yesterday, "I don't want those boys to end this great season with the bitter taste of defeat." 
-by Michael Ortman 


Pi11l Carter's second q11arter touchdoum burst was all the lrrsh fleeded to beat Alabama, 7-0. 
ND 
31 29 
26 32 30 20 33 3 7 24 3 
1980 Results OPP 
Purdue 10 Michigan 27 at Michigan St. 21 Miami 14 Army 3 
at Arizona 3 Navy 0 at Georgia Tech 3 at Alabama 0 Air Force 10 
at Southern Cal 20 
******** 

Jan.l at New Orleans -Georgia (Sugar Bowl) 

C()(Jch Dan Devine's interview with ABC's Bill Fleming after the Alabama game was much more pleasar1t than the one after the Southern Cal contest. 
------------------------------------------·-·­


·rhe Observer Monday, December 8, 1980-page 18 

Condeni contributes his own way Tankers finish 
46 passes and scoring 11 touch­be competing. "Tony's so
Bv Lo11ie Somogyi 

downs while helping propel naturally talented, I don't think 
third in relays
-Sports lf'rller 

Moeller to state and national he really needed to be taught Senior split end Dave Condeni championships. anything," chuckles Condeni, 
The Notre Dame swimming
epitomizes the 1981 Notre Inevitably, Notre Dame fans downplaying his role in Hunter's 
team came within nine-tenths 
Dame football class. began having visions of Koegel­development. "It's just the idea 
of a second of winning its third 
It's not a class that will go down Condeni as being the next ofhelping someone new become 
straight Notre Dame Invita­
in Notre Dame annals as one of Huarte-Snow, Hanratty-Seymour, familiar with the system. Tim 
tional Relay meet Friday night.
the most talented. In the Theismann-Gatewood, etc., (Koegel) would be throwing him
i 
But when the water had settled,
Coliseum onlv three members of show. First, though, there was a the football while I'd show Tony 
the host Irish found themselves 
the class of 'S1 will be listed as little two-year wait on the the routes we run. I just wanted 
in third place, proposing a lot of 
starters (Scully and Zettek being incumbent unit of Montana­to help in any way I could. 
"if only we could haves." 

redshirts), and the Irish depth Haines. "Things still looked good
1 
j 
chart isn't exactly filled with "Kris (Haines) helped me out a before the season. I felt a really John Carroll University took · "Sr.," either. lot while I was backing him up," good year coming on since I had Dave Condeni the team title with 85 points, But if nne thing separates this recalls the marketing major who picked up experience. But then and Wisconsin-Stevens Point
we've overcome so much

senior chss from many others at saw enough spot duty in '78 to came the injury before the finished second with 79. The
adversity this yearand becomeso

Notn; Dame, it is that thev have grab seven passes for 87 yards. "I Michigan game, and, welL." Irish were a close third with 78
close-knit has really been some­

proven· that starting, s~oring was gaining some confidence Condeni's voice trails off in points in the six-team com­
thing. Just making so many

touchdowns, intercepting passes, from him for the following disappointment. petition.
friends with the players is some­

or, as in Condeni's case, receiving years." The injury was enough to keep 
thing that alone has stuck out in 

passes, are not the only ways to After Haines' graduation, him from seeing any action in Yet heading into the final 
my mind. I'm just happy to be a

contribute to a team's success. Condeni finally got his chance. what had promised to be a great 400-yard freestyle relay, those 
part ofit in helping out with what 

season. top three teams were all in a
The "unseen rewards" provid­The Cincinnati native took full 
I can." 

ed by the ~~:niors have helped advantage of it by winning the "Transferring never entered position to win the overall 
Dave Condeni and his fellow

make .:"Jotre Dame's squad what Hering Award as the outstanding my mind," the Sorin resident championship with a first place
classmates' names probably won't

it is--from ~like Courey's receiver in the spring of'79, thus adds quickly. "Once I decided to finish in the final event. 
be seen (other than Jim Stone's)

graceful yielding ofquarterback­come here, I knew it was the right
establishing himself as the heir­Stevens Point and John
on any all-America rosters or on

ing duties. to Jim Stone's apparent to Haines. thing." 
Carroll were tied after the first

Notre Dame's record books, but

<~CceptanL"t' of a reserve role, to His outstanding spring, how­Bitterness is not the former 
eight events with 71 points
a large measure of this team's

all the seniors who had looked high school star's style, even
ever. was overshadowed by the each. Notre Dame had 68. The
success can be traced to their

forward to starting by their final though his gridiron duties have
news that Moeller's Tonv 14 points for first place in the
"unsung" efforts on the practice

year but have accepted roles as Hunter, regarded by many as th~ been reduced to receiving and 400 free would give any of the
field and to their unselfish 

reserves without bitterness. All nation's outstanding high school holding the snap for Harry O's 
three the crown.
attitude.

mighty left foot. But even in that
ofwhich mav be why "closeness" receiver, would enroll in the fall 
is a word often used by this at I\'otre Dame. role, his critical tackle after In that final relay, Irish coach 

ll 
MOTHER WAlTTILL A5t<ED HIM IF HE'D 
HE'S COMINb TO LIKE A..... . 
DINNI2R TO TRY 

ALL THESE WEJ/<..0:l "101 WAYS WITH L.[VE.R"RECtPES P 
~ 
I 
I ~ 
J 
( 
I 
} 
~ 

~ 
,\ 
;,!. c 
~ 

I~ 
.... l y 
KING OF BEERS~ • ANhEuSER BUSCH. INC • $1 LOUIS 

The Observer Monday, December 8, 1980-page 19 

The Bronco coach added, "They (Notre Dame) out-clas­sed us. Even Digger outclassed me in his pin stripes." 
...ND 

To which Digger quipped, "I would rather be in a sweater, but I've created a monster." 
HOOSIER HYPE-Starters for Bobby Knight tomorrow include 6-9 pivotman Ray Tolbert (whose missed slam­
.dunk attempt in the final seconds against Kentucky cost Indiana a better fate), 6-6 guard Randy Wittman, the inimitable 6-2 lsiah Thomas (20 points, five rebounds, five steals vs. Kentucky) -comments Digg~r, "Isiah Thomas is a whole new dimension in Indiana basketball" -and a pair of question marks... the 
(continued from page 20} 
standard. 
The Irish, now 1-2, will en­tertain Saint Mary's tonight as the "Shuttle Series" between the two schools continues. Notre Dame has won all seven meetings with the Belles, in­cluding 81-45 and 73-56 ver­dicts last year. 
"We expect St. Mary's to give us a tough game," said DiStanislao. :'Jerry (Dallessio) 
is a good coach, and he has them playing aggressive defense. It will be a very big win for them if they can beat us, but it's also an important game for us to win. We have to get the ball rolling." Tip-off in the ACC is set for 
7:30 p.m., and there is no ad­mission charge. WSND-AM (6400 on your AM dial) will broadcast the game live, with Tim McKeogh calling the play by play. 
Not tonight, Sugar 
I've got atummy ache 
Before the fight, I referred to him as a "slimy, grizzly Panamanian," for which I was called a racist. Now, mind you, Roberto Duran is not slimy and grizzly because he's Panamanian. Yet even now, his countrymen, whose hero he has been for nearly a decade, are down on him. 
He quit. 

After Duran walked out on Sugar Ray Leonard in the eighth round of their World Boxing Council welterweight championship fight, Panamanian strongman Omar Torijos called the former-champ home for an explanation, to which Duran's handlers responded, "Roberto doesn't answer to anyone." 
Just why did one of the world's winningest fighters of all time (70-2) walk away from a hungry Leonard? That is a question boxing aficionados will be asking for months -maybe years. People are understandably curious as. to exactly why the highest-priced prize fight in history ended with just 16 seconds left in the eighth round of a scheduled 15-round bout. 
The initial reports were that Duran was suffering from bad body cramps and could not continue. 
Hogwash. 
Roberto Duran is experienced enough in the ring to know roughly how much time remains in a round. I'm not saying he knew there were 16 seconds left when he quit, but he sure as heck knew there were less than 30. And there's not a good corner man in the world who can't rub out cramps. Duran could have dodged Leonard for a few more seconds and then sought relief. 
Later reports indicated that a little-too-pudgy Duran had to starve himself for 24 hours before the weigh-in to make the 148-pound weight limit. After that, he supposedly wolfed down an Epicurean's delight for lunch, and didn't feel well the rest ofthe day. Oh come now. Duran has been fighting all his life. He knows what he can and can't do to prepare for a fight. Could he or his handlers be so stupid? 
Unlikely. 
And besides, a few hours after the fight, Duran was at a party with friends, nursing his belly-ache with several cold beers. 
Then there are those who claim he just plain 

quit. And if you reason it out, that's not such a bad conclusion. Face it, if you were getting $8 million to standin a ring with a truly great fighter beating at your face, and you had relatively little to lose by cutting it short, wouldn't you? 
By quitting,. Duran dealt Leonard the most crushing blow he could that Tuesday night in New Orleans. He was makingafightofit, but he clearly was not as ready as he was in Montreal in 
June. He trailed five rounds to two on two judges' scorecards, and 4-3 on the third. He did not have the ability that night to knock out his foe. 
Yet, by quitting, Duran tied the series at one 
. fight apiece, setting the stage for a big bucks rematch (and there will be one). By quitting, Duran cast a cloud over Leonard's title, something that probably will take a rematch to remove. And until he fights again, Duran will be remembered as a quitter, something you know he could never live with. 
Since his post-fight retirement announce­ment, Duran has expressed interest in a re­match, with all of his take going to cancer research. The same day he made that an­nouncement, the Louisiana group that staged the fight in New Orleans fined Duran a paltry $7,500 for breach of contract. 
Meanwhile, the same group was claiming that part of the purse would be withheld until an investigation could be conducted. In response to that statement, promoter Don King claimed that the money was already out of the country. That saga continues. 
The world may never know exactly what happened in the Superdome two weeks ago ­
unless, of course, there is a rematch. The pre­fight probing of the media corps could force a truthful explanation for Roberto Duran's little tummy ache. 
tri-captain Bob Crable as the leading Irish tackler, picked up a fumble against Alabama to set up ND's only score in the 7-0 nail-biter Nov. 15. 
Just minutes later, Dave Duerson picked up another USC fumble and gave the Irish the ball on the USC 26-yard line. But once again, Notre Dame could not score as the third quarter came to a close. 
An apathetic and tired Notre interception and a fumble. 
In a quiet and dismal locker room after the game, the tight lips-and the tears told the fate of the Fighting Irish after the game. 
"I'm very thankful about having another game," said Devine of the January 1 Sugar · Bowl against Georgia. "I don't want this team to be reme­mbered by this particular ball game." 
Wilson Bryan Key 
"Subliminal Seduction 
in Advertising" Monday, Dec. 8, 8 p.m. Library Auditorium 
Free Admission Sponsored by Student Union Academic Commission 


Free! 
Rand McNally Road Atlas and Travel Guide 
You probably know of New York Life. We're one of America's oldest, largest and most progressive life insurance companies. 
But perhaps we've never had the chance to meet and talk. Thafs why I'm offering this valuable gift­free. 
If you will return the coupon below, I'll be happy to see that you get your gift. In return, I ask only a few minutes of your time. No obligation, of course. 

Mike Blair New York Life Insurance Company 108 N. Main, Suite 400 South Bend, IN 
1 NAME __ ···---------____ PHONE ____ ·----· 

~----------------­
I ADDRESS __~ _____ ~·---­
1 Date of BirthI Course of Study
I 

ll'ma •
1 0 Freshman ~~ I 0 Sophomore I ~4
.g:: 
l I 0 Grad Student · . 
-----------------------~­



The Observer Monday, December 8, 1980 -page 20 
\ 
'Shuttle Series' continues tonight
\' 
Irish fresh off season's first victory 
Belleslook for closer contest 
By Craig Chval their first two tnes this winter, Sports Writer used a different lineup Satur­day, with senior guard Sheila The Notre Dame women's Liebscher and sophomore for­., basketball team made a minor ward Shari Matvey getting their assault on its record book first starting nods of the season. Saturday, resulting in its first And although they weren't fully victory of the season, 82-51 reflected in the box score, over Concordia College. DiStanislao felt the changes had 
But listening to Irish coach a profound effect on Notre, Mary DiStanislao after the Dame's performance. game, you'd think Notre Dame "We finally got the leader­offensive fireworks and the end ship we need in the backcourt," result wt-re only remotely re­said DiStanislao. "Sheila is a lated. very smart player. She always; 1 
"I thought that we were plays to her capabilities, and she pretty even talent-wise," said, plays under control." Mary D after her first win at Although she played just 12 Notre Dame. "But we really did 1 minutes, Liebscher finished a good job at setting the tone with four points on two-of-two defensively. The girls are finally. shooting from the floor, and 
! 
starting to realize that defense added three assists and a pair of wins ballgames." steals. Her partner in the DiStanislao made reference starting backcourt, 5-1 captain to sophomore forward Janice Maggie Lally, dished out five 
I, Crowe's 27-point scoring burst, assists and made three steals in but seemed IL'.)fe impressed 14 minutes. I 
• with Crowe's overall effort, "Our guards did a good job of
r noting her game-high 11 re­controlling the tempo of the bounds and the defensive job game," lauded DiStanislao.
v 
l 
" 
).' she did on Concordia's 6-2 "The biggest differef!Ce be­center, Deb Lemke, who was tween this game and our first scoreless when she fouled out two was confidence. Today, we 
with 10:31 to play in the game. played to win." The Irish, who were winless in The Irish sprinted to a 40-27 
GOOD TIME MUSIC GOOD TIME ROCK AND ROLL 
"STRAIGHT FLUSH" 

Now Available for Bookings Hall Parties Special Engagements 
Call Jeff Barcus at 259-8088 

tm4 ...... 
halftime lead, and DiStanislao By Kelly Sullivan cassions. 
got everybody into the act in Women's Sports Editor Sophomore Anne Armstrong the second half. Crowe had 22 of tossed in a team high 16 points her career-high 27 points in the After suffering a disappoint­for St. Mary's, and was followed first half, and saw just eight ing loss to Franklin College by strong 13-point perform-minutes ofaction in the final20 · Friday night, the St. Mary's , ances by both Maureen King minutes. Her explosion was the basketball squad injected a bit 1and Mary Pat Sitlington. King fifth best single-game effort in more intensity into its Saturday grabbed 10 rebqund~ as well. Notre Dame history, and she contest, and came away with a 1"Franklin is one of the best established single-game Irish 58-3 7 victory over Tri-State. / teams we'll play this year, and marks for free throws made The Belles' ledger stands at 3-we never gave up. It was a good ( nine} and attempted (18). 1 following this weekend's game for us." 
Matvey and freshmen Kara, activity. Saturday's Tri-State contest O'Malley and Jenny Klauke Mental mistakes proved to be had a happier ending for chipped in with eight points St. Mary's downfall in the 68-56 Dallessio' s crew. After another apiece, with all of O'Malley's loss to Franklin. Coach Jerry first half of sluggish play, St. points coming in the first half Dallessio did not express dis­Mary's rallied from a 27-18 and Klauke scoring all eight in. couragement, however, about deficit for the 58-37 victory. the second stanza. his team's play against the de-A defensive adjustment in the 
DiStanislao also got good fending Division II state cham: second half allowed the Belles bench efforts from junior for-pions. to outscore Tri-State 40-10. ward Missy Conboy and rookie· "I'm emphasizing the posi­Freshmen Lisa Schirz and guard Molly Ryan. Conboy was tive aspects," said the third-year Gretchen Myer came off the Notre Dame's number-two re-mentor. "Ifwe go out and play a bench and sparked their team's bounder with nine to go along mediocre ball game against a play. Schirz turned in three as­with her seven points. Ryan team ofthat caliber and onlyget sist, four steals, eight rebounds, contributed six points and five beat by 12, imagine what we and seven .points on the even­assists. could do ifwe played really well. ing. Maureen King led all scor­
The 82 points eclipsed Notre That game showed we have a lot ers with 13 points. Dame's previous all-time best of potential." Dallessio feels the weekend by a single point, and the Irish Down 38-26 at the half, the competition will benefit his also set a team assist record with Belles did a better job ofstaying club in tonight's clash with its 
22. Their 35 field goals were just with the Bulldogs in the second biggest rival, Notre Dame. 
one shy of the single-game period, cutting the margin to "The fact tha~ we hung in (continued on page 19) seven on three different oc­
(continued on page 18} 
your 

StJ1';lr tich ? ::!WeVegot 

your rooms. 
If you're lucky enough arm and a leg. to have Sugar Bowl We've got twenty-six · • tickets but can't find a miles of sugar white 
room in New Orleans, beaches. Fresh seafood. ;·::;:.::: stop worrying. We've got . Championship golf ., ·:;: plenty of rooms on the courses. And New Year' 
Mississippi Gulf Coast. Eve parties that last till 
We're only sixty miles dawn. from New Orleans -a So combine your straight shot into the Sugar Bowl holiday with .

:·:< Superdome on New a vacation on the .:.··:: Year's Day. And a room Mississippi Gulf Coast. : ·> here won't cost you an We're warming up a 
welcome just for you. 



Sports Brie S Monday, December 8, 1980 -page 21 
c===~========~====~============================~
by The Obserr't't' and The AJJUt.ialed PrtJJ -~HOCKEY·ItTh~f~ 
Western Conference -..-....c.­Midwest Division 
E.-a 

The Indiana soccer team, which 
defeated Notre Dame during the regular season, 4-0, aavanced t~ the semifinalsofthe NCAA DivisionI tournamentyesterday wtth a 3-1 quarterfmal victory over Penn State. The Nittany Lions beat theIrish this year, 4-2. SeniorRobertMeschbach led the Hoosiers to the Final Four with a pair of goals. The Hoosiers. 21-2-1 for the season, will play HartwickCollege next Saturday in one semifinal match at Tampa. Fla. -AP. 
Illinois has met a Big Ten 
Conference request to provide information on its athletic and academic compliance with league rules, a request resulting from the controversy over quarterback Dave Wilson's eligibility, a league official said yesterday. Indiana ProfessorJack Wentworth, headofthecommitteeofBigTen faculty representatives said he had received the response Saturday. The conference requested the response while the question of Wilson's eligibility was argued in the courts.­
AP 

Student tickets for theJanuary 1 Sugar 
Bowl will be distributed on the third floor Convention Offices ofthe NewOrleansHilton, Poydrasat theMississippi River, New Orleans, La. 70140. Times for pickup are as follows: Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, December29, 30 
· and31-10a.m.-12noonand2-5 p.m.;Thursdayjanuaryl, 9 a.m.-12 noon. Students are reminded that to sit with another individual they must show up together and present their own respective ID cards. Also, each student who ordered a ticket is responsible for picking up his or her own ticket. No exception to this procedure will be permitted. All sales are final and there will be no refunds. 
--------------··----------, 
Classifieds 
Sruce. John. Rich. NoDoz.aScoop­what ~ a Feaewas editor do without yoU? (don•t answet' lhaf). You too. Mire. 
II~Y 
like, wow. S1ewa, rwt naY8I' been hetd atbaVwilll ahair-dryefbefore. !Onley. Wei, I slil think you're 'cule'.Of1'/WOJ. SaturdaV still on? 
5ue"Duck". 
"My heatf's on fire. you're my one desifer· Have a Meny Christmas and a Hc:1II>P¥ New Yeat'. 
Love. "Oevianr 
Decembefi,1MJ-Julyl, 1971 (?) LET nROlL 
lindcLHere'syewoticialChristmas penonat ffom your official Christmas present See you down souftL.maybe we can exchange some real dixie hospitality...love Supennan 
--------· 
t:or Christmas I hope you geL ASH -An Olaf SUper Bowl ring ("One lor the Bum") ~ -Ake\t to lhe •bra( and on A on a tough test HARTZ-A Nolfe Dame football National Championship (Do you believe in Sonia?) lHE VARSitY CROWD -Season lickeb to the Moly D. snow and a place to lock up lhe accordion (and its owner) 
UPS-We&-W&e 
WEE-WEE -lips MUGS-A 5mOOth deadline (Ale 
you~ 
1HE OISEJNBl -A new Quadrltek. a ckeam (nightmare) come true. 
s.t DEPI. -A taw weeks without the students (anofher dream come true), a wortcing toldlng machine and a turnout on Monday after­
noons SEC110N 1-C -Section 1-F 
Meny Chtistmos to an. and a Happr New Year in Hew Orleans Orti 
Mof)'lrigid a MarybeiiL.it feels good to see you two teaming to trust your wings. Port a1 me wishes 1 couldlywlhyou, andIwillmissyou both dearly. Mar lo¥e folow you alwarLrnine does. 
Rich 
Moly, 1he other night was great rn try my best toCO'Ief up~iCtulcheson lhe bact ot rnr nec1t. 
Mike 
Mike, You play a n--. harp. Yow P811oo'mance was exhilarating! Merry Clvistnoaa. 
Veronica 
P.S. I live on a fann.not a ranch. 
Dear Mary Monk-
rm sony you won•t be getting a present from Michael on Chris$. 
mas.  Jhis  personal  was  a1  lhe  
Production  Dept.  could  alford.  
Merry Chdstrnasl  

Margaret Kruse 
(IIIIIB"s boss) Mike Monk, the pertectgentleman; Merry Christmas... 

MERRY CHRISTMAS TO All AND 10 AU A GREAI IREAIC! 
Tracie Fishel, 
You are cordially invited to a Christmas party in 101 Keenan on Dec. 1t at 9:00 p.m.. 
A Devoled Admifef 
Jop10Jocb 
1. John Sweene, 2.. Kevin LOYeiO'f J.. Dean Maszlak ~ Rick Naylor 5. Adam PC1150N 
6. 
Steve Seny 

7. 
John PaxsOn 


a. Mike Favorite 
9. 
Randy Elis 

10. 
John Hantefd 


LOIS. MERRY CHRISIMAS!!! THANKS FOil EYERYTHJNG. TIM 
AD SALESMEN. IHANKS FOil A JOB 
WELL DONE THIS SEMEStER. NOW All WE NEED TO DO IS AND A SIAff IHAI KNOWS WHAT TO DO W11H THE ADS WHEN WE GET THEM. MERRY CHRISTMAS!! nM 
Usually if's so late when you get 
lhem that the staff has already 
gone to sleep. 
Madonna, Hola nOVia! Bring your pills lor New Yeal"s Eve. You'H need "'-"1 The Hunchback. 
Jeeps, Cars, Truck.; 
Available through government agencies, Many sell for under $200. 
Call (602) 941-8014, Ext l648 
for your directory on how to purchase. 

National Hockey League San Antonio 1B 9 .667 Campbell Conference Utah 14 13 .519 4 Patrick Division Houston 13 14 .481 5 W L T GF GA Pts 
"-as City 12 18 .400 7Yz 
Philadelphta 18 6 4 115 72 40 
o...­10 18 .357 8'h 
N.Y. lslandloors 17 1 5 125 95 39 
Dallas 3 25 '107 15'/z
Washington 9 6 10 99 84 28 
Calgawy 11 10 5 95 101 27 Pacific Division NY. Rangers 815 4 94 111 20 Phoenix Z3 6 793 Smythe Division 
Los Angeles 18 10 .643 4Yz 
St. Louis 17 6 4 11J 91 38 
Golden State 16 11 .593 6 
Y.nc:ouver 13 8 6 108 91 32 
Se.ttle 13 14 .481 9 
Colorado 10 12 4 90 107 24 
San Diego 11 11 .393 11 Yz
Chicago 9 14 5 114 129 23 
Portland 9 19 .321 13'h
Edmonton 6 13 5 86 101 11 Winnipeg 1 19 1 80 131 9 Yetserday's Games Not Included Wales Conference Washington vs. Boston at Hartford. Conn. 
Norris Division Golden St-at Phoenix Los Angeles 19 6 1 115 81 37 
Utah at Los Angeles 
Montreal 14 11 2 119 86 30 San Antonio et Portland 
turtford 9 13 5 93 128 23 
New .JeBey at San Diego
Pittsburgh 8 13 5 95 112 21 Dekort 417 4 78 114 12 Adams Division 
Tonight's Game 

Buffalo 13 1 6 99 78 32 San Antonio at Seattle 
----·-..,.~ ......~_......, .,..:.·....., 
Boston 8 11 6 85 87 2~ Quebec 6 14 6 88 110 18 Saturday·s Games Detroit 4, Philadelphia 2 

National Football LeaguePittsburgh 6. Chicago 4 American ConferenceWashington 8. Colorado 6 East

turtford 5. Calgary 3 
W L T Pet PF PA

Montreal 4. Boston 1 Buffalo 10 4 0 .714 300 223Toronto 5. Quebec 2 
New England 8 5 0 .615 366 280
Buffalo 3, Minnesota 3, tie Baltimore 1 7 0 .500 313 325
St.louis 5. Winnipeg 2 Miami 6 7 0 .462 209 254
Los Angeles 5. N Y Islanders 3 N.Y Jets 3 11 0 .214 258 357
Yesterday's Games Not Included Central
Washington at Boston Cleveland 10 4 0 .714 307 258
Pittsburgh at Buffalo Houston 9 5 0 .643 253 232Colorado at Philadelphia Pittsburgh 8 6 0 .571 314 271Chicago at N.Y. Rangers 
Cincinnati 5 9 0 .357 203 271
Toronto at Quebec WestHartford at Edmonton Oakl•nd 9 5 0 .643 307 268Detroit at Minnesota 
San Diego 9 5 0 .643 371 296
N.Y. Islanders at Vancouver Denver 7 7 0 .500 264 282
Tonight's Game Kansas City 1 1 0 .500 265 287Calgary at Los Angeles 
___.....,..,.. .........
-...-.c-~·~~~ 

Seattle 410 0 .286 260 362 

National Basketball Association 
TUTOR 
Eastern Conference Atlantic Division w l Pet. GB 
for enhancement 

Philadelphia 25 4 .862 
remediation 

Boston 18 7 .720 5 
plenery exam

New York 16 10 .615 7 1/2 Washington 12 15 .444 12 
preparation 

New Jersey 11 17 .393 13Y. 
(cramming)

Central Division Milwaukee 22 7 .759 Indiana 11 1 2 .586 5 
day&. evening appts.

Chicago 1 1 1 6 .407 10 Atlanta 10 18 .357 11Y• 
234-8570 
CC.:::J·._ 
--~-----­



11  3  0  .M&~~  
,  5  0  .tiCJ 3116 lSm  
1i  8  0  AZI Dl1 1I&Z  
0 14  0  .miD ~ 41.8  

................__ 
7
Houston 6, ..... .... 0 y 1 ...... Reslllls 
7
Atlan1a 20. Pt 1 1 .• 17
\ 
CincinnMi 34. Ballf are 33 Buffalo 10, LDs AriWI!hs 7. OT M...__ 21. T......., a.r 10 Cleveland 17, .._ .,..... .Jel:s 14 W.shingt<Wi 40. S.. lllil!p 17 St.Louis 24. Delrail: 23 ~61. s.-..... 7 Dabs 19. oa.a-.1 13 IC.Misas City 31• .:---14 San "-«:isc:o 38....~315. Qlf New York GUnls 27, Seal* 21
T.,......s.._ 
New Engt.lll at lllli.-.i 
s.....Dec. u New York Glanls at W....on s-nte at s-DieF 
s-ea.,. Dec. 14 Bufflllo at New Englaood Cleveland at Minnesab Houston at c;.-a.r ~ Cily at Pilltiibw.... 
New o.ae-at New .,..... ~ St. Louis at PI lt I \ 1 .a s-Fi•ICisca • ~ Cincinn.ti at DaicagD Miami at~ 
Oakland at .,.._. 
TBft11N1 Bay at Debaoit ......... Oec..15 
Dallas --Los Angaes 
,..__ROCCO$,-... 
men·s and womeris hairstyling 
at comfortable prices 531 N. Michigan 233-4957 

c...r.ll 
• li 0 .sn .z7.J ~ 7 7 0 ~~.Z55 • • o .ca ZJS ZM 
5. 1 .lS3:n5~ 5 8 1 .lS3~XID 


New Year's Eve in New Orleans 
The Notre Dame Student Union and theAlumni Club of New ·orleans are sponsoring both a PEP RALLY and PARTY for Notre Dame fans on New Year's Eve. 
WHERE? The Pep Rally will be held at the RiYergate Coliseum before the game. The Party will take place before,: during (halftime), and after the game in the Superdome. 
TICKETS? nckets will be available in New Orleans at thevarious studentactivitiescenters andatthehospitality rooms set up for this occasion. 
Come and Join Us In Our 
NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP 
CELEBRATION! 
-· "' 





T 
! 
I 
l 
( 
l The Observer 
I, 
\ 
I 
1 
I 
I 
' 
Ji 
l. j' 
r ' 
1)•, 
' 
'. 
~ 
.·. 
r ~ 
) 
1." 
1"j 
\) 
~· 
!I. 
\:1 
b \~ 
\~ 
), ! 
) ' I ' 
t: 
r 
l\
'·l 
~~: ~~ 
t ! 
" 
r 
I 
r 
lf 
!! 
( 
~~ 
i\ 
i,;, 
r 
I l 
/, 
;l 
~\ 
\ 
r
I 
ll 
\ 
~~ 
j 
I 
t\ )l
,, I( I) 
; 
n ~ 
. t 
j \ 
J 



WEDNESDAY
TUESDAY
MONDAY 
9
8 

10 LIVE BAND 
BUD-NITE #1 NITE SUGAR BOWL 
HEINEKEN $1
2/$1 Cans
PARTY 
17

15 16 
BUD-NITE #1 NITE LIVE BAND 
2/$1 Cans HEINEKEN $1 
....... 

Monday, December 8, 1980-page 22 
THURSDAY 
11 CHRISTMAS SPECIAL To Be Announced 
. 18 FAREWELL SPECIAL To Be Announced 
FRIDAY 
12 
8-10 Cocktails 2 for 1 
19 

··························································································· 
. 
•
•
•
•
. 
•
•
•
. 
•
. 
•

• CORBY CALENDAR! 
Comes Unassembled For Easy Moving 
$145 -Order Now For Delivery to Dorm or Apt Day You Return From Christmas Break 


DORM SPACE CRUNCH? ----RISE ABOVE IT IN A"LOFT BED"...... ­-Natural Wood 
By American Wood 
277-4611 

Products or 
272-2319

State Line Road South Bend, IN 
Call 8 c.m-3 p.m.

u.s. 31 across from%Shelves ~ Ladder Kubiak's · 
---·---. .... --_____. 

The Observer ~1onday, December 8, 1980-page 23 

•' •' .. ,.. •

Classifieds 

Two roommates wanted for spring Need 3 Indiana GA's Patty Wille's Birthday No kisses, no NEED RIDERS TO FLORDIA, LEAVING Lisa ("the Babe") and MichelleNOTICES lei'Mitel. Campus View, $108 mo. PAY $$$$$$$$$$$$$$ (''Meesh")-Here'syourpersanaH
money-just buy her a shot of DEC. 15-CALL BILL AT 277-7675. 
Cal Jane or Laura at 277-8646. can Dennis 8719 CHOCOLATE MILK I hope you both have a great Merry Christmas to all of those I 
Christmas. May you both find men

----·------labylfttar needed my home for 20 NEED EXTRA NIGHT TO STUDY FOR 
Theresa Hickman... Was It a promised a personal to: Colleen E. In your stockings on ChristmasOVERSEAS JOBS • Summer/year houri a WMir. Begin Jan. Col 217-RNALS OR SOME MORE CHRISTMAS surprise? We Love you. US.
nd. Europe, S. Amer~ Australia, Cullen, Joseph Anqulllare, Mary S. mornlngl (Hmmm...Maybe I'd better 
MONEY? SELL YOUR IUB·BALL TICKETS.
5718 Carey, ursula O'Brian, Motth-K.

a. All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. CALl197o4. DC CLUB XMAS BUS SIGN UP!II Dec. 8 rephrase that.) 
O'Neil and all the rest of the boys of' Merry Christmas! 

ghtseelng. Free Info. Write: I.JC, NEED A COUPLE OF RIDERS TO NEW a 9, 7:30-8:30 p.m., 1st floor SEARCHING FOR PAIR OF TICKETS Keenan Hall. Tim
x 52-IN4, Corona Del Mar, Ca. JERSEY OVER CHRISTMAS BREAK. 
Lafortune! $60 round trip, $130 one­
FOR THE DEC.91U GAME. CALL JIM AT Much Love,
625. MUST BE FROM SOMERSET COUNTY 
way. CASH Oil CHECK! NO REFUNDS!! 
Tom -Thanb for puHing up with

197o4 EITHER EARLY AM OR LATE PM. Diane
AREA, PREFERRABLY SOMERVILLE 
WHI leave Dec. 18, 11:00 p.m. Will
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Emergency the noise In the morning, and 
AREA. CALL JOHN AT 3106 (BEST AT 
GA FOR a
ns to Notre Dame students only. NEED 2 TICKETS ND-IU leave D.C. Jan. 12, 9:00 a.m. Bob Murphy en France, thanks for being such good
NIGHl).

20-$200. One percent Interest. Due BASKETBALL GAME. PLEASE CALL Questions, call Mike #1108. Nous esperons Que vous vous answering service. I hope Santa 30 days. One day walt. Open DESPERATELY need ride from CENT. SHIRLEY AT 8661 OR 1715 BEFORE 5 amusez en Angers. Hove a goad brings you everything on your lisl.
To my favorite Quesle-Sue, 1:30-12:30. M-F. Lastdaytoapplyls FLA. area back to N.D. otter break. P.M. Christmas. We'll be thinking about (How about a postage meter and
The good lite: Talking about life, ed. Dec. 1 0. Last day office will be WILL MEET WHERE CONVENIENT FOR you and hove a brew at Zlggy's some shares or stock in Bell Tele­
FOR SALE one padded season love, and God over a baHie of en is Thurs. Dec. 11. YOU, SHARE EXPENSES, etc.! Call and/or P.K.'s for you. phone? I'm hoping for a muffler lor
basketball ticket, great location. Llebfraumllch. Knock them dead Brad at 1417 love. my blow dryert) Havea great break,
Make offer. 232-9507 today!IILV DUCKLING RENT-A-CAR. $7.95 
--------------Bud.bunny.& Co. and give my best to the divine Miss
Love.
day and 7 cents a mile. Phone Need Ride to O'Hare offer Finals. -----­
FOR SALE: 2 student season tickets B. Your roommate.
55-2323 for reservations. Call John Higgins "'8553. Katie wanted: one housemote for
Must Sell/Call: 277-7701 second semester. call 232-6140 
Jocque(PrJca)-Ican't even begin

HELP! 2 R.l.ers need ride to ND from
.C. CLUB XMAS BUS SIGN UP! SEE RIDE WANTED FOil XMAS BREAK offer 5:00 to tell you what a help you've been.
Boston area otter X-mas break$$$
RSONALS COLUMN. 
GOING TO WASHINGTON-ORE.· 
I'm really going to miss our great

I PERSONALS 
Pat 1238 or John 3575 MERRY CHRISTMAS, EVERYONE, ORIDAHO VICINITY. CALL GREG 1153
HRISTMAS SALE -Best In Town -discussions. You really have your
ELSE!!!! :

nnew books 20'Y. off. Used books HEY BIG TOM, head on straight, and I know you're
WANTED: Riders to ATLANTA. I'm Yours truly, I leaving January 19. Coli SCOOP at Scoop I
for 1. 1981 Calendars 10'Y. off. DISLOCATED COEDS WANT TO MOVE YES YOU! The guy with the great going to bring happiness to a lot of DORA'S BOOKS. 937 South Bend radio voice. Did 1 say great? Lefs
ON CAMPUS people! Take care, and write
1772 for details. Lefs get OUT of ' 
BUT pretend you're Air Force's coach Fellow Observerites, annually. Tim I
herefl!ll WE MUST SUBLET OUR APAtnMENT ...IF huh? That will be the dayIs the wind See you at the party. I certainly I 
Hey Franny! Que tengas un muuuuuy l 

r used and HELP! I need a ride toSt. Louts, home YOU CAN HELP US, CALL 233-26U blowing in the direction of the hope we all behave ourselves, for If
paperbacks texts. buen viaje a Mexlcol Hector. ahara 
1-·

of the division leading St. Louts library? You're a geech but we love stop we'll
DORA'S BOOKS. 937 South Bend we ever behaving, a venlrl NAVIDAD
FEATURES STAFF I WRITERS; thanks for ELLA vo FELIX
Blues, for X-mas breakll My fast your stereo and b. gammon set probably be dead. But then again, honey! Te Qulere. "Ia chamacaall your help and have the best
exam ends at3:45 Wed. Dec. 17 and think we This rumors
Why do you visit? if the about Notre Dame mezclada"
YOUR NEW YORK TIMES EARLY -I will be ready to leave by 3:4611 Will Christmas ever. Love, Molly bought you by the parties are true, then we'll all be
message to A.M.-Available In box outside shore usual. Call Diane at 7895. HEY THERE Klzzy I, Klzzy II, Margie.
Typing In my home. University Park geech society minus the one Who dead anyway. Oh well, we'll all be 
ndora·s Books. 937 South Bend Rhond, Dl, Bethy, Deaner, OVe,
Mall area. No calls after 10:00 PM. could never be a geech.me. L.F. dead eventually anyway.....
Need riders to KC area atChristmas 
. 233-2342. Bobbin-Robbin. Fugley, Stace, and
Scoop277·3085

break. Call Tim any night after 11. WANTED: riders to ATLANTA. I'm more JUNIORS at St.
many wild R RENT -LARGE ONE-BEDROOM 232-2697. SPORTS STAFF: NO MEETING THIS leaving DECEMBER 19. Call SCOOP We'll all be dead anyway-reminds Mary's who mean SO much to mel ARTMENT close to campus. $150 
WEEK. PLEASE CALL BETH OR MIKE at 1772 for details. Don't worry, I'm me that the universe Is probably HAPPY CHRISTMAS's CHICAS!
Anyone going loSugar Bowl leaving us utilities and deposit. Contact 
BEFORE WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10. cheap. Lefs get OUT or heret! expanding, which means that Love,from KC, Tulsa or Little Rock area,n at Pandora's Books. 233·2342. 
someday, there will be no energy, from who else but one of true

willing to take a rider, call Tim ony Angel Foce:
LITTLE GOOSE: HAPPY 20THIII!MISS 
either potential or kinetic or any squirrel cr...! Peanut Butter Blossoms night otter 11, at 232-2697. YOU LOTS, BUT I'll SEE YOU DEC. Enjoy this overty eggnog-sloshed other kind, which means that every­Forever! 

281!1SUGAR BOWL TIME -HOW SWEET holiday Interval. I shall see you
House mate needed second sem­thing will die out, eternally. Ifs a
t~O~T/~~~J 
soon. dumbbells in hand, spouting MERRY CHRISTMAS DEBBIE AND RICH!
IT lSI!!! HUFF:

ester. Close to campus. Call John depressing thought, but It won't
NFL stats and radiating natural (Yep, thafs you Miss CasleeH) 
or Bob 234-6293 happen for. a few billion years.
LAURI AND PATSY-SORRY I WON'T Thinking of you.
at Alumni party on Air Force warmth. Thanks for the best holidayBE AROUND TO HELP YOU CELEBRATE Suz
Anyway, all of this reminds me of

end • a girls blue ski jacket w/ WANTED: Ride to ROCHESTER, NY or season ever. THE BIG 21111 HAVE A GOOD PARTY, another thing:
!~n 1trlpes and all her ldentlf­EAST on I 90 Call: Jerry 8201 Love, Yes VIrginia... There Is a 761 Club...
-------------· AND A MERRY CHRISTMAS(YOU,TOO, Q: Why Is Einstein an Important
~o~. Cal~8198 If you picked It up. Maxrs Dad Merry Christmas to all past, present, 
wanted: ride to Phllly or South LES!) figure In the history of the Yukon? future and non-existent members!
FOUND: Watch in the ACC. Call Jersey. Can leave 12/16. Will share A very merry Christmas to all the A: Because he discovered the ihrls~1212 to identity. as usual. Fran 8559 men, women, and tenors (sorry moose-energy relationship! (Thafs 
BETH 
Thank you all

I love you John Russell... so much lor the 
about that) In the St. Mary's one for the College of Science,
F()UND: CALCULATOR at 127 wonderful C.U. sendoff. You people Carol, 
Need ride to Wash., D.C. area. Con Collegiate Choir, especially our folks, and especially lor Dr. Kalata.
r-ieuwland. Call 8767. leaveatter4 p.m., Wed., i>ec.17. Will are the best -I couldn't ask for
fearless leader Ray, without whom Who was so upset that the NobelI've known you to~ over two years,
share usual. Call Kevin, 8207. beHer friends. I'll miss you all so
Ltst: One pair of eyeglasses In the we would never hove been able to lecture was not publicized. Pions
but I still can't figure you out. Merry much.
vicinity of the library on December desperately lo sound like a coherent group. or Is thai MOOSEonf. 
I Ride needed Christmas and Happy New Year, and muons -Much Love,
Tim
5pfter the basketball game. Please SYRACUSE-ALBANY-BINGHAMTON forever!) ­
etc.• etc., and I hope to seeyou next Theresa cbll Sheila #4789 (St. Mary's) If ~ 
NEW YORK CALL CHRIS @ 8486 year (a little more often than I did Here's to the Cedar People:Tuesday night staff ­
f~und. Thank-you very much. Farewell Folks: ' 
this semester, O.K.?) Maureen, AI, M.J., Sarah, M.P., M.S.l.,
Need a job? Campus Press Is Merry Xmas. Thanks for a good
ro all my friends and assorted 
.-----------~­
·,1 looking for a secretary/layout artist Love, acquaintances, have a Christmas semester and a good staff. You Katie, Joanle, Carlos. Jovler. Jim, Tim Frank. Miele. Robby, Lobo, Rob. 
, to work 1-5 Tues.-Thurs. starting next don't know what Irs like to have
swollen with pleasure, ond a N­
l FOR RENT 
Brian, Tom, Cathy, Carol, Peter,

L----semester. Job involves laking THANKS TO EVERYONE WHO HELPED Year filled with imbibement. competent people working with Greg, Fltz, Kelly, Marla, Martso,
orders and poster set-up. No you late at night. But then again,
MAKE MY 21ST BIRTHDAY SPECIAL!! Beware of wild moose prolerrlng Leslie, Carolyn, Lizzy, Kevin, Sully,

veral houses for rent, Summer '81 experience necessary. Must be lOVE, antlers to your sisters. neither does the rest of the produc­Kathy, Ellen, Julie, Cindy, Mary S.,
d/or '81-'82 school year. Partially able to stay on for the fall semester BETH Happy Holidays tion staff! WE ARE THE PAPER OF THE Peter ll., Beth D., Beth B.
nlshed, good condition. Call of 1982. Apply 2nd floor Lafortune. Ryan "no doz" VerBerkmoes WEEK STAFAIII in the Student Unlan offices. N&ecl riders to southeastern Yours In theGreat LayoutGodKebe.
7-5361 after 7 p.m. MERRY CHRISMAS SHIRLEY. Tlt-1
DETROIT CLUB BUS...SPACE STILL
----------Michigan Call Ty 1942 Scoop 
AND MOOSE CONTROL-Bruce of

drm house 4 rent.$100-$200 mo WANTED: Riders to SEAmE-TACOMA­AVAILABLE!!!! $25 Round Trip Calf the Yukon
the right party. 233-1329 PORTLAND. Leaving 17th or 18th Les and Nltz, Anne-7977 01 Mary Elfen-7916 Breathe, breathe in the air. 234-8975. Merry Christmas and Happy N­Don't be afraid to care. 
TO ALL THE C-MONSTERS. I HOPE
To Mary Wilson,

A ARTMENTFORRENT: NDApartment 
Year to 2 of the best roomies ever. Leave, but don't leave me. 
YOU'ALL WILL HAVE A VERY MERRY Love, Look choose own YOU'Ll AU 
f let during second semester. Need ride to S.Callf. Con leave Well, here ItIs -your long-awaited 
F~rnlshed, 2 bedrooms located on Dec.15, will share drlvlng,expenses. personal. Hove a very Merry around, your XMAS. PROBABLY BE 
Cathy ground,
Christmas and o "sugary'' New EXPECTING INDIVIDUAL PRESENTS,4 floor for security. Close to both Please call Paul 8539/8591. 
For long you live and high you fly,

Year. See you down In New Orleans. WELL, THIS IS tnll LOVE, THE MANMary and Les,ntQUses. Cal1233-2631. 
Smiles you give and tears you cry,

Going East? I need a ride to EXIT 12 love, FIOM THE "UNIVERSITY"
You're going to be missed next 
C NTRY HOUSE FOR RENT TEN on OHIO TRNPK for X-MAS Call aut all you touch and all you see
Pam.
semester, but we know you'll be DEAR SCOOP,Is all your life will ever be.
NUTES TO CAMPUS 2773604 Chuck 8180 bock (UHII). Have a great time and 
To all my friends, Merry Christmas I'M NOT GOING TO BEHAVE AT THE0955 Riders needed to K.C. orSt. Joearea behave yourselves! and a Happy N-Year. Love, Pam It should be noted that Scoop OBSERVER PARTY. SORRY. 0 FURNISHED HOUSES FOR NEXT call Rick 1932 Love, LOVE
cannot be held occOI..Intoble for Merry Christmas, 
Gay, Anita, and Cathy the Moose jokes. They were merely
HOOL YEAR COUPLE BLOCKS TO THE OTHER TIM!!!
--i 

Mom. Dod. Stephanie, Erin and 
inserted by Moose Control In theMPUS 2773604 2880955 Merry Christmas to all the various Billy, tool See you on the 18th... 

Sounds like llghtln' words to me' 1

FOR SALE 
midstofhis manymessages. Scoop

Observerlles I've met this past Love,
I 
warn you all-onyonewhodoesn'tal.,'t elegant, like moose are.

semester, especially Scoop Sullivan Pam
e wllh studenl.ctose to campus moose around at this porty will be 
For Sale: Technics SL-D2 direct drive 
and Molly Woulfe, who gave methe maw -I om your secret admirer.
fireplaces carpeted very nice. tossed out on their antlers.
Reno -meet me In Virginia?? 

turntable with cartridge; Project 
chance to show my sluff when love,
xpenslve 232·1523.ask tor 
Liz
One 50 watts/channel amplifier: 'fi;,. i_!Ntltlrtfd tf'tll;o/11" (.·· '""rr
various other campus organizations ten Infinity R5-A speakers. Practically wouldn't. Bruce -thanbfor ad libs and pizza. p.s. have a good break! (~tr. "f"j,,. l!·ll,f '""" "1(-rmn.di large 3 bdroom house new, hear it to believe II. $700. or A Jouchtng Tragedy
Tim, the music trMa man 
Mary Clair, 

c se to campus will leave partially otter · see Tal at 126 Fisher or call Rachel, It came to Notre Dome In August, nlshed call 232-6770 affer 6:00 1925. MERRY CHRISTMAS TO CAVANAUGH Have a happy 19th birthday. Isn't It funny that on the same day uch like the rest of us: unsure of 
--------Hope ll"s the best ever!
HALL AND All WHO LIVE THERE FROM we were talking about the Bugs 
Itself. but hopeful. But thecold, hard

FOR SALE: 1970 Ford LTD. AC/Heat, Love,
ONE OF ITS MORE RENOWNED Bunny episode where Yosemite 
race of reality gazed down mal­

m for rent for second semester­NEW RADIALS, plus more --must The girls
RESIDENTS. sam stands on the train tracks and 
evolently

refurbished sell Best otter Call Carol277-3527 6-P.S.: If you remember It! at the diminutive new·
utiful duplex, In the train goes right over him, It comer. All of its friends In lhe 120011pmtember. Two housemates happens to be on??ll
To SMC's Sophomore Chem Majors, series had found secure jobs anduesl a third. Call 232-6859 New pair of ladles tan dexter boots. A very Merry Christmas wish to The ORGO!! ORGOII ORGO!! lfs over Hope to see you at the portv on none had ever been known to Observer's best production staff:
slze6.1leasonable price. Call7985. of last! Celebrate! Wednesday...tf you aren't I will see make an error -some hod even
Monico {the Mass-ochlst), Patty Love, you some other time (I hope)...tf I been known by Christian nomes.
KOF PARIETAL$? NO APARTMENT 

FOR SALE: 2 r01..1nd-trlp 5.8.· (even though she rarely shows up RENT-2 bedrooms, fully and ~tn·aworks When she does), The Math Major don't seeyou some other timehave H '' tlit·rC' U'rl• wm~·fl~lll.t: rlt//t" ut '''""" 
Philadelphia flight tickets for break. lppecl kitchen: furnished. Call and Rich (the able and priceless 
a good break. etc., etc., blah bloh 11;,, rltuulrtfdc. Perhap5 it was sensitive 

Call John at 1422 or Gerry at 1520. .\lr fin/ puwtultftix yt"ur: Thanx to 
technician). blah... ab~l its size; perhaps it felt lhe
-0821. 
all production staff for the good
SNOW TIRES: 2 lor $20. Good con­Santa M. Tim humans who ron It couldn't accept
work and patience this semester. 
t roommate to replace dition. G781o4. More Info call 232-it as a friend and equaL
Things were at rock bottom for a I hates Rabblt-drogonll Lowdown
duatlng se11ior over In Campus 7131 after 10:00 p.m. Unable to deal efficiently with Its 
Merry Christmas to alf the strange
----------~---·---··--while, bul your confidence In me ornery critters! 
. Great aportmenl. no crime. clfcumstances, unable to complete
ond wonderful people of the
WANT 'A JOB THAT PAYS GOOD and In the paper pulled us through. 
its assigned mission, it has been

st be cool. Call277-0617. Ombudsman staff (especially the P.S. LOVE THOSE MOOSE EARSIIII
MONEY? GO INTO THE GRILL I promise that things will be even transported tothe computer grave­
girts)

BUSINESS. LEASE COOtCERS TO CLUBS better {and hopefully faster) next That 11 Quite a palf ofantlersshe has yard-a 1200 without a home or a your Information director
AND CLASS FUNCnONS. CALL semester.
nge locations over semester 
theret name. A life that was nasty, brutish 

DANNY AT233-4653. DATES WITH DAN Special thonx to MAK., Deirdre,
k. H01..1se for rent. Excellent O.Or Trlcia (Rpmanoll). and short, fraught with problems
ASK. No repfr; I'm a loser. Bob(sin black
ARE AVAILABLE TOO. JUST and Bruce, as well as Scoop, Mike, ....
edltdJiki.n, carpeted. Nearcampus. This V«Y expensive GUCCI from the first, Is atan end. Perhaps it
rock and roll mulic: I'll fonow the

AUHHHHII Steve, and the Moose. (That
C II 291-7213 or 291·6111. -~ messageIs to wish you the best luck 1s beffer this way -the hurt could 
. -------­
-------, an your nrstexamsandalsoa great rhymeel) Lei'sdo Itagain in January... sun, Mr. Moonlight. Honey, don't: I'll only grow deeper. 

Quadrltek
be back -she's a woman. I IMI

Jvinmy Mo0x
Xmas. Thinking about you lots. melancholy Is not pretty.
nne: everybody's trytng to be my
TICKETS
WANTED 

Please give me my present before HltN /'IJ)'IIJ:I' k {!llltdlllfdli!
Ride needed to the Greenwhlch, 
baby.

you leave. P.S.: Good riddance to the artful
Conn. area or thereabouts for 
~-------------·---­
Sincerely, MERRY CHRISTMAS TO ALL THE Artwaxer, too.)
RIDERS TO FLORIDA-LEAVE need G.A.s and 1 student ticket tor Christmas break. Please call Joan 
. 15. CALL IILL AT 277-7675. Indiana 8Ball gome. call1601. A Handsome Greek of 4375 (SMC) . SUNDAY MENS CLUI "DUDES". HOW 
continued on page 2·1]
YOU HO-HO-HO IN 

-



1.' 
I' 
~norts Monday, December 8, 1980-page 24 

Offensestopped 
-j 
Trojans spoil Irish dream 

By Beth Huffman Sports Editor 
Los Angeles -Dan Devine joinedJoe Kuharich (1962) and Ara Parseghian (1974) as Notre Dame head coaches who con­cluded their final regular season with a loss to Southern Cali­fornia when his team fel120-3 to the Trojans Saturday in the Los Angeles Coliseum. 
It was the seventh straight loss for the Irish on Trojan turf. ==--.::-::.:·~:.:-..:_:_·_:-::~.: _-;:.:;;_:;_·:::::::::===============-=--Noue Dafl'le. which leads the 
leers blowout Chicago Circle 
By Brian Beglane -Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team finally struck upon an oasis in a season when goal 0roduction had become as dry as the Saraha Desert. 
The Irish, who had dropped four of five games by one goal beading into this weekend, ( pened the floodgates Friday night for an 11-2 victory over non-league rival Illinois-Chi­cago Circle and took Staurday's 
second game, 6-4, at the Ath­letic and Convocation Center for their first series sweep ofthe season. 
The win gives Notre Dame a three-game win streak, its longest of the year, and the Irish take an 8-9-0 overall record into th[s Friday's single home game against Michigan State. The Irish are 4-7-0 in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association. 
people who we needed to have scoring were not getting the goals and, we were losing some tough games. A game like Friday, though, boosts your confidence." 
Rex Bellomy, Bill Rothstein and Dan Collard had the single tallies for the Irish Friday night. Collard picked up his first goal 
of the year. Notre Dame also went five­
r } 1
10r-eig 1t in power pay con­versions while killing all six of Circle's skating advantages. 
"We skated pretty well when both teams were even," said Circle coach John Kantarski. "But the penalties hurt us. I thought some of the calls were weak, but that's hockey. Notre Dame is an established team and that certainly showed." 
Circle, to its credit, kept the game close Saturday while Blakey played tough in goal. After ~ otre Dame had taken a 5-2 lead after two periods (on two goals by both Bjork and Logan and one by Poulin),John Uveg·es closed the gap to 5-4 midway through the third stanza with two goals in less than a minute. 
But Irish defenseman John
Schmidt iced the win with a power play goal at 13:03 as the 
Irish  collected  their  third  
straight win.  
Notre  Dame  attempts  to  

climb back to the.500 mark this Friday against Michigan State. Faceoff at the ACC is set for 7 30
: p.m. 

After that contest, the Irish break for semester exams and the Christmas holiday. The team returns to campus for a home and home series against Western Michigan Jan. 2-3 to begin the second half of the season. 
II 
collegiate football rivalry 27­21-4, has not defeated USC since 1977 when Devine first led his team onto the field in the now-familiar green jerseys. 
"I don't have any feelings; I'm just numb," said Devine, who added that he also was disap­pointed and somewhat embar­rassed. 
The Irish, who fell to 9-1-1 after the loss, could only muster 39 total offensive yards in the first half-to the Trojans' 98. The sluggish initial half was a dismal time for Notre Dame, as the team rated number 2 in the AP poll collected just one first down and was forced to punt six times. 
A key fumble by sophomore tailback Phil Carter set up Southern Cal's first touchdown early in the second quarter. The Trojans recovered Carter's drop on the Notre Dame31 and drove for the TD on six plays behind the running of tailback 
Michael Harper. Harper and Anthony Gibson, both sopho­mores, combined in the contest to fill in for Marcus Allen, Southern Cal's regular work-
h h b kf ld All
orse in t e ac ie . en is 
out for the season with an eye 
injury. 
"Phil Carter has had a great season," said Devine in defense of the Tacoma, Wash., native. "He is the best sophomore back I've ever seen, and he's going to win the Heisman trophy before this is all over." 
Southern Cal scored again after stalling the Irish on three plays and forcing a punt. Blair Kiel's 3 7-yard punt was re­turned five yards by Harper, who again joined with Gibson and sophomore quarterback Scott Tinsley to drive the Trojans to a score. The Irish defense managed to stall USC on the five yard line, but could not stop Eric Hipp, the Trojan placakicker, from booting a 22­yard field goal. Hipp's kick, which split the uprights at 13:29, completed the first-half scoring, giving USC a 10-0 edge. 

"We hurt ourselves so much in the first half," said Devine. "In the second half, we came storming out and played our ball game. I felt we were going to get the job done." 
Devine lifted freshman star-_ ting quarterback Blair Kiel, opting for senior Mike Courey in the second half. · 
"Mike's got good quickness," said Devine. "I felt we needed to do something." 
"I wasn't upset when they decided to pull me," said Kiel. "I wasn't moving the team." 
Courey, who hasn't started a game as the Irish signal-caller since the Michigan clash, promptly marched his club to the Trojan one, but the USC defense prevailed again. 
The Irish had two tries from the 1-yard line. On a fourth­and-one play, Devine sent Carter on a pitch sweep to the right, and he was nailed for no gain. 
"If I had it to do over," said Devine, "I would have sent Carter over the top-but I don't have it to do over." 
All-America defensive end 
fcontil•.-ted on page J9j 
independent, fell to 3-7-0. 
"We really needed a series like this," said Irish coach Lefty Smith. "Friday, I thought we skated much faster than Circle and moved the puck well all night. We had been having a te: -.~gh time getting the goals, and a game like that certainly was pleasing. 
"Saturday, Circle proved to b~ a tougher team, but we held our composure in the third per­iod. We sure got enough shots on goa.I " 
In fact, Notre Dame blasted Circle goalie Rich Blakey with 60 shots on target and he stop­ped 54, the most by an opposing goalie this season. Blakey split the previous night in goal with Gerry Vagnone and the duo combined for 44 saves. 
The Irish goalies, meanwhile, had their ea<;iest series of the year. Bob McNamara, in the nets Friday, was called on for only 19 saves. Junior Dave Laurion needeu just 22 saves, only thre<' in the final period, Sat• . .lfday. 
Four Irish pbvers-Dave Poulin, Jeff Logan, k1.1l Ljork and Kevin Humphreys-each scored two goals in Friday night's romp. Bjork and Logan went on to finish the weekend with four goals apiece. 
"Friday's game was much needed for quite a few of us," said Poulin, who had scored only fives goals in 0 games before Friday. "I had never gone two games in my life with­out scoring and, beforeFriday, I hadn't scored in five. The . 
Chicago Circle, a Division II =======================================================~===~===~====================== 
we were a little sluggish and we just weren't reacting." 
Sophomore forward Bill Varner hopped off the bench to start the run by converting an offensive rebound and causing havoc in the Bronco backcourt with his play at the head of the Irish press. Tracy Jackson's 11 first half points, on five of six shooting, was another indica­tion ofimproving vital signs for Phelps' crew. 
"It feels good to shoot bet­ter," said senior co-captain Jackson. "I was disappointed with my performance at UCLA 

Cagers rip Pamona, set for Hoosiers 
11_v Gar_:, Gr~usey Spnrts Writer 
The performance was far (rom fltwlcss. 
But :here were a few en­couraging signs for Digger Phelps· and his troops as they b:-oh a 13-minute span of lt·tha:gic basketball against Cal Poly-Pomona with good old­fashi·>ned pressure defense and 6v.4-percent shooting from the fl.:>or, powering 13th-ranked ~'otreDameto a 76-50 blowout o!" the Broncos Saturday after­noon at the Achletic and Con­vocation Center. 
Th~ Irish, winners of three st raig.:1t at home following their st:ason-opening loss to UCLA, now prepare for tomorrow n ~ht' s clash here with No. 5 h diana (8 p.m. tipoff) before t; kin;t two weeks off for final ~xan· s. Bobby Knight's Hoo· iers are 2-1 after Satur­day's 68-66 loss to No. 2 Ken­tuck-· in Bloomington. 
"I :hink we're starting to fill som<· gaps defensively," said Irish coach Digger P'1elps after the Cal Poly game. He <.d.U­tiontd, however, ..It's obvious I'm not happy with s0me things 
v. e' rt· doing as far as defensive exec :tion." 
Qt'fensive execution was not much to speak a:,out either for what set med like more than 13­minutes. The Broncos, relying 
·"· 
1-· .. 
1 •. 
_}~-<~>·:.
J-~··· 
·' '·· 

as well as the other night (one-. for-seven shooting against TCU). I was a little impatient. 
"The transition to guard took some tir .e," he continued. "I'm taking shots from different po­sitions than I did at forward. Today we worked the ball well, though, and got a lot of baby jumpers. I'm starting to feel more at ease." 
That easy feeling became in­fectious in the second halfas the Irish reeled off a 17-4 spurt off the opening tap. Forward Kelly 
(confirmed on page 19} 
on a patient passing offense, gave the Irish more fits with a pesky half-court trapping de­fenst·.' 
But it was Notre Dame's defense all over the court that turned a 16-16 ballgame into a rout when with 6:24 left in the first half, ":he Irish held Cal Poly scoreless for four mhutes and outscored the Broncos 11-0 with scoring from five different players. Notre Dame led by 35­26 at the half. 
"We went with a fullcourt press." said Phelps, "To force us to play a little harder. I think 

Defense just can 't carry offense 
The defense, the seasoned veterans of a 9-1-1 Irish team, rave dug in consistently throughout the 1980 season. They have stalled brilliant offensive teams, most recently Alabama's Crimson Tide and the Falcons of Air Force. 
Led by all-Americans Scott Zettek and Bob Crable, the squad has set school records, going 23 quarters without giving up a touchdown and ?..7 without a rushing touchdown. 
Zettek has recovered two key fumbles. Mark Zavagnin ·,;cored a touchdown against Air Force after recoveriny. a fumble in the end zone. Defensive backs Tom Gibbons andJohn Krimm lead the tt!am in interceptions-and both hve returned grabs for TDs. 
The defense has consistently stalled opposing offensive drives. They have been asked to perform massive chores, and they have done so more than adequately. 


It has been the Irish defense which has broughtNotre Dame into the collegiate football limelight this season; 
But the dt!fense can no longer bear the Vleight of the entire team on its shoulders. It was a tired and apathetic defensive unit that left the Los Angeles Coliseum on Saturday afternoon. 
After playing more than half the game, the 
{continued on page 19} 
. ( 
' 







