-~---­
... FLOC -page 7 

VOL XIV, NO. 87 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1980 
Riehle questions ruling; SBP elections approach, . • • 
By Gary Cuneen penalty Riehle thinks is Cunpaign StaffReporter ".1bsurd". "It's difficult run­ning a campaign with $75 let 
In the \Week approaching the alone $50,'' he said. Riehle i'JHO Student ·Body Presidential thirikshis penalty is harsh. but is elections, campaigning was more emphatic about this claim t1111nl with contusion and dis­that such a significant rule was <li)J>roval on the pan of candi­not emphasized or brought to date Paul Riehle concerning the his attention. wtde-ranging election rules. "To be honest-with you, I 
Yesterday, on the first official didn' r even know about the day ofcampaigning, Riehle was receipt rule. It was an easy penalized one-third of his cam­mistake to be made. The rule 
paign expense allowance for was never made clear to me or placing posters inside the South my campaign manager. Some­Dining Hall and for not submit­thing that important should ting his receipts for materials have been mentioned at the 
purchased for his campaign, meeting,·' Riehle commented. contrary to guidelines set by the Ombudsman Election Commit­Campus Campaign '80 
tee. 
l'<>m Call, chairman of the Bd(>re being notified of his Ombudsman. Election Com­violations, Riehle expressed his rntttee, expre:,sed his view on discontent with the Ombuds­the rule violation. "He (Riehle) man Election Committee, which just overlooked the pertinent originates and enforces the rule and possibly somebody in rules. his organization got carried "I've gotten negative respon­away,·· he commented. ses from them. I think they're 
Call partially agrees with get ring carried away trying to 
Riehle's objections to the rules, pretend that we're politicians but firmly supports his jurisdic­when we're not, he said. Riehle tion. "Rules for the elections feels that the entire election is are necessary. We've got these being taken too seriously. and we've to to stick with them. Don Ciancio, Riehle's vice­ing the possible campus ban on lunch fasts as examples of
b_y Tim Vercellotti
Our intent is to ensure that it is prt:sidential running mate, Cambell's and Libby's pro­student involvement. "Stu­
Campaign StaffReporter 
a fair race for all parties commented, "We didn't intend ducts. dents did not question who was u>nccrned. However, we're w try to slip by them (the In a meeting with the Farm ''Students must articulate right in these issues, they just golllg to sit down after the rules). It was just something Labor Organization Committee their convictions on deep, gut did something,'' the South elect ion and rewrite these unt(munate that happened. It (FLOC) on Friday, Bishop Wil­issues, and this is one," Mc­Bend Bishop pointed out. 
rules,·' Call said. was our error," he said. liam McManus called for Notre Manus said. "St\ldents should try to sensi­One-third of Riehle's $75 ex­Dame students to support an He cited the lettuce and grape tize the corporate conscious­
pt•ttsc limit will be negated, a [continued on page 4] · upcoming referendum concern-boycotts, and the Wednesday ness. Through a collective conscience we can bring· a moral question to bear on the companies. This would be sound student action, and sound Christian action,'' Mc­
Manus explained. The issue in question is the by Michael Onu(rak rights of migrant farmworkers. 

Culhan heads Kennedy's ballot drive 
Kennedy_ envisioned ~uch of the Civil Rights legislation Lyndon 

Senior Copy Editor McManus is. well-informed on
] ohnson tmplemented 10 the mid and late Sixties. 
this matter, having spent timeBut the Kennedy people in Indiana as well as nationwide are farSenator Edward M. Kennedy's Regional Finance Director in the fields with the laborers. 

John Culhan was on campus yesterday to help coordinate from giving up despite their candidate's slow start and the element
a In his talk he described the poor 
of scandal in his background. Culhan, in fact, sees thepetition drive to get Kennedy's name on the ballot for Indiana's conditions that these peoplemomentum--that ambiguous political catch-all--turning in Ken­May 5 primary. Culhan and local Kennedy campaign director Paul must endure such as inade­
nedy's favor.
Lewis spent the entire weekend convincing registered voters in St. 
quate housing. 
''I think the American people are getting fed up with PresidentJoseph county to lend their names to the Kennedy effort. By last Carter's refusal to debate. We saw the first indication ofthis trend

night they had topped their goal of 1000 signatures due largely to Campus Campaign '80
in Maine where we did a lot better than we expected. We'rean intensive effort by a group of 20 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

students at the local shopping malls. hoping that trend will continue in New Hampshire," he said. "A family of six or seven may The petition drive is important not only because it is indigenous Last week in Maine's Democratic caucus, Carter defeated live in a one room house. This to gettmg the candidate's name on the ballot, but also because it Kennedy by about five points. The results were surprising, one room serves as their kit­allows a candidate's campaign organization to guage public however, given Carter's strong backg-round in that conservative chen, their bedroom, every­interest in the candidate himself. state. As Culhan pointed out Matne may. be in Kennedy's thing. Furthermore, few of Dan Ryan, a Kennedy campaign worker, said yesterday t~at geographical backyard, but it certainly isn't his demographical these homes have indoor Kennedy support among blacks seemed especially strong, whtle '[continued on page 3] [continued on page 41 
his support among senior citizens appeared "shaky." . "Only about two or three blacks among all those_I asked to stgn the petition refused. Most were eager to stgn and were Probe ofshah 
enthusiastic about Kennedy's chances. Some of the older people, however, simply refused and even said that they were insulted. Most who refused mentioned Chappaquiddick as their reason for 
Waldheim chooses commission
not endorsing Kennedy." 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -was taken over by Islamic "Some aspects !till have toElection 80: The Campus View U.N. Secretary-General Kurt militants Nov. 4. 

be clarified and the matter has Waldheim chose a five-member "The secretary-general has to be coordinated before the 

According -to Lewis, these results are about what was expected, international commission Sun­finalized the composition of the secretary-gerneral can 'make an 
''Chappaquiddick is an emotional issue which people have made day to probe Iran's grievances commission and has communi­announcement,'' said,
he but 

up their minds on one way or another long before now. It is against the deposed shah, and cated it to the parties,'' did not elaborate. 
something that is a matter of public record and has been for ten the Unit""..t States agreed to the Stajduhar said. ''As far as I There have been· ambiguous years. If we concentrated on changing people's minds on that we selectiuns, a U.N. official said. know the United States has and sometimes contradtctory
would be wasting our time.'' U.N. spokesman Rudolf communicated the answer. It is signals in recent days as to
-Culhan agreed, ''People who are turned off will stay turned off Stajduhar said Waldeim was positive.. They agreed." when and under what condi­by Chappaquiddick. When there is an emotional issue like that . awaiting the Iranian govern­W aldheim is to release the 
tions the commission mecha­

there is nothing you can do about it.'' ment's proposed make-up of names of the commission mem­nism would lead to the hos­Kennedy's support among black people is not surprising when the panel, designed as a step bers after he receives the 
tages' release. 

one recalls that Robert Kennedy, as Attorney General in the early toward the release of about ~0 Iranian reply, which Stajduhar Iranian President Abolhassan sixties, was quick to send federal troops to quell racial Americans held hostage at the said was delayed for reasons disturbances over school integration in the South, and ] ohn U.S. Embassy in Tehran since it "of a purely technical nature." [continuedon pag~5] 

Mardi Gras came to a close Saturday night after a successful run. Pictured above is the 
Grace-Lewis entry of Chicago at one of ihe carnival's slower moments. [photo by Greg 
Maurer] 
••• .FLOC pushes for campus-wide ban 


News in·brief 
Monday, February 18, 1980 -page 2 
Carter'sdraft plan
Reagan ducks reporters 
Congress begins examination 
aftercocky ethnic joke 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Con­armed services personnel sub­subcommittee will try to stop ~ress is about to begin examin­committed on Carter's plan to that part of the program before mg President Carter's d~aft register men and women aged it goes any further. ,
NEW YORK (AP) -Ronald Reagan told a? ethnic joke registration plan, amid growmg 1& to 20. Caner already has authomy toinvolving Poles, Italians and a cockfight on h1s campa1gn ~us demands for information the In general, members. of .the register men but needs !egisl~­
in New Hampshire, ABC News reported yesterday. O~e a1de administration has refused to panel advocate reg1stenng tion from Congress to begmreportedly reacted with .dismay, '.'There goes Connecticut." 
release. men but are hostile to the idea registering women,Connecticut has an Itahan-Amencan governor, Ella Grasso, 
Selenive Service Director Ber­of r;gistering women. 
Also taking a look at the planand a substantial Italian-American population. As reported nard Rostke~ and Penta~~n Rep. Richard Wh.ite, D-Texas, is the House Budget Commit­by ABC, the joke was, "~ow do you te!~ the Polish one at a manpower ch1ef Robert B. Pme its chairman, predtcts Congress tee's task force on defense andcockfight? He's the one with the duck. How do you tell the Jr. were summoned to testify will reject registration. of wom­international affairs. which hasItalian? He's the one who bets on the duck. "How do you Tuesday before th-: House en, and it appears likely the 
scheduled a hearing for Wed­his aides could nor be reached for comment last night. 
tell when the Mafia's there? The duck wins." Reagan and nesday on the budgetary impact 

Major snowstorm in Maine fails to hamper launching 
BATH, Maine (AP) -A major sn~wstor~ f~iled ~o hamper the launching of another Navy gwded m1ssile fngate, the USS Clifron Sprague, from Bath Iron Works. The 4-! )-foot-long vessel, named in honor C?f t.he late \X'orld War II hero Vice Adm. Clifton A. Sprague, shd mto the 1cy waters of the Kennebec River on Saturday, 17 weeks ahead of schedule. The 8,600-ton frigate, the sixth in its class to be built at the Bath Iron Works, joins three sister ships launched last year and docked here. 

Weather 
Mostly sunny and .breez>: Monda>: with highs in ~he mid 20s. Fair Monday mght With lows m the lo"': to m1d 20s. Partly sunny. windy, and warmer Tuesday. H1ghs 35 to 40. 


CamP-_u_s------~ 
12:10 pm TEACHING/LEARNING SEMINAR "proper use 
of media in the classroom," sr. elaine des rosiers, nd. 242 O'SHAG:. (brown bag) sponsored by educational media. 
2:30 PHYSICS DEPT. LECTIJRE "theoretical introduction to quantum chromodynamics," dr. j. f. owens, fla. state u. 220 NIEUWLAND. . 
3: 15 LECTURE hon. alvin b. rubin, judge ofthe u.s. 'court of appeals, 5th district. 101 LAW BLDG. sponsored by white center, law school. 
3:30 ITT LECTURE SERIES ''government and business relations in japan," philip h. trezise, brookings institution. MEM. LIBRARY AUD. sponsored by itt dept. of business administration.. 
4:30 CHEMISTRY DEPT. LECTURE "oscillations in chemical systems: the belousov-zhabotinsky reaction & the oregonator," prof. richard j. field, nd. 123 NIEUWLAND. 
6&9 SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM "lucia" ENGR AUD. sponsored by center for experiential learning. 
6:45 ROSARY daily at the GROTTO. 
7:00 MEETING texas dub. sponsored by nd texas dub. LAFORTUNE BALLROOM. 
)

7:00 GSU MEETING WILSON COMMONS. sponsored by grad. student union. 
7-10:00 DOCUMENTARIES taped television documentaries on floc & campbell's. sp~>nsored by t~e ohio far!D wo~kers support committet". contmuous showmgs and dtscusston. 242 O'SHAG. satellite i room. no charge. 
7:30 
FILM "the birds," WASH HALL. sponsored by dept of sp/dr. $1. 

7:30 
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING for freshman wishing to join the student managers organization. ACC AUD. 


8:00 LECTURE SERIES "legal options of the draft," prof. edward gaffney, nd & "christian ethics of draft options," prof. john howard yoder, ND LIB. AUD. sponsored by student gov't., cila, campus ministry, program for non-vio­lence. 
11-12:00 WSND RADIO "talk it up," call in talk show, with host pat toomey. speakers will be mock convention campaign chairpersons. sponsored by wsnd news. 
of registration. However, its wirness list in­
Campus Ministry sponsors 
cludes no Pentagon or Selective Service officials or any financial 
experts.

dailylecture series on draft 
Students jutn Campus 

.\ltttt-.tll and the Program for 
Sill•ltt·-. of' Nun-Violence in 
"i""h<>nng a scnv-. of talks on 
tltv scll'lt ivc svrvice draf 
h,·gttllllng tuniglu and runnin~. 
L• llht'tll\'t'l~· through Thursday. 
!'Itt' d.ul1 IC'Lturcs which begir 
a::-; p.m ..art· open to tiH' public. 
:\1"nday'-.. speakers wi!! be Dt. l~dward MclJivnn Gaffney. :1 '""ttatt· dtJTl'l<ll' ;1f rhe Centei f.,, C:<>Jhtituti,,nal Sttldies. d,.,, u-.-.tng · · J'hc Legal Options 111 a Draft,·· and Dr. John IJ, •W.t rd Yudt'r, profess,;r of ilw.d .. gy. who will discuss "Tiw ( :111 httan Erlllls fo the Draft Optt<~lh. · · B<Jtlt talks are in th1· .\km<~n:tl l.thran· Auditorium. 
SJ>caktng ar H. p.m. Tuesday tt.gltt in Wa-.hington Hall will IH· lk1·. D:l\ id Burrell. C.S.C., Ill .. k-..sor and 'hainnan of :-.J.otlv D.tnH··-.. TIH'.Jiogy Depart­lllt'llt. and Rc\'. William A. J'.,,dtn·, C. S.C .. dirctor of L.tmpu·-.. Ministry. Their topic wdl lw ·· J'he ){oman Catholic ( : IiLII L h a 11 d C,, ns' ien t io us OhJn t 1<~11. · · 
Iknn J. l.i:urd<~n and King \V. Pt",··,t"in. both associated wttlt the ROTC programs at :-.J.,tJt' i),tmc. will discuss \'.. luttt.u ,. Mtl11ta vs. Conscrip­t1," 1 ;\{i Itt i a .. at 8 p. m . \Vt",lttv-.d:ll: itr the Ltbrary .\u.l'"" tllliL 
!'lit· 1-ttt:tl -.pcakns on Thurs­d.t\ til the (};,l•in Li(l· Sl·ience \ti,ltt•ntum will be Dr. James 
~The Observer_ 
Night Editor: John Smith Asst. NightEditors: M. Teri Michielutti Deirdre Murphy Copy Editor: Mary Fran Callahan News Editor: Margi Brassil Editon(d Layout: Greg 
Hedges Sports Layout:Paul Mullaney Tom Schuster Typists: Paula Shea, Bill Swift, Mary Beth Budd, Marilyn Broderick EMT: Mike ''The Doctor'' Galvin Proofreader: Rick Freedman ND Day Editor: Bob Bernoski SMC Day Editor: Peggy Schneeman Ad Design: Dave Wood, Anne Fink Photographer: RJD 
The Observer [USPS 591 920! is published Monday through Friday ex­cept during exam and vacation perltds. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dllll8 llld Saint Mary's CDIIIgt. SublcriptiiiiiiiiiY be 
purchased for $211 per yur IStl perumattrl from The Observer. P.O. 1111 
0. Nitre Dame. Indiana 46556. SICIIICI c1a11 ~~ paid, Notrt Dame, In­diana . 
The Observer Is 1 member of ttlt Associated Pl'lll. All llpilductlln rigllts are mti'Yid' 
B. Stnvart, -econorn ics 
pt.''''"'"~' and dirccr"r of Black Srthlll'!... ··r~tc Draft and Social ) <t-.llll', · and Rose Marie I kngDh.ttlt, dtr<:c!Or of the \VollH'll·-.. Ccntn, South Bend Y\VC\, "l'hc Draft and the
n:.\ . 
l'lli>lll:h B. 1-Icil, junior j)lltl"""Jlh)· major from Phila­<klpltt.t, i-.. tlt;tirrnan of the l''"gr.tm. Co-~ponsors are 
Co~uttt tl f.,r. International Lay .\p.. -.t,.Jatc (<:II./\) and Student g 1\'('lllllll'lll. 
The administration is coming under increasing pressure in Congress and elsewhere to release a report Selective Ser­vice prepared for the White House on various ways to mobilize young people for mili­tary duty in time of emergency. 
Rep. Les Aspin, D-Wis., threatened yesterday to file suit for disclosure of the report under the Freedom of Informa­tion Act. Rep. Patricia Schroe­der, D-Colo., already. has filed a Freedom oflnformatton request for the material. 



TEACHERS 
Ask a Peace Corps volunteer why she teaches deaf education in Tllailand... ask another volunteer why he works as a teacher trainer in Kenya. They'll probably say they want to help people, want to use their skills, travel, learn a new language 
• and experience another culture. Ask them: 
REGISTER NOW .AT PLACEMEin OFFICE FOR INTERVIEWS: FEBFUARY 25, 1980 AT ST. ~~ARY HAI\.CH 3-4, 198·) .A.T NOTRE DM1E IN ADHINISTRATION BUILDING. 


ENT TOURS TO EUROPE· ISRAEl 


EGYPT 


· · 33 davs in~srael, Greece, Italy, Austria, SWitzerland, France and England with option for Egypt visit 
Tour includes airfare. hotels. 2 meals day, 
sightseeing, cruises, special excursions and more. 
For brochure write: 5. Graveel Experiments in Travelling' P.O. Box 2198C West Laf ette, IN 47906 
r 
,r 

The Observer Monday, February 18, 1980 -page 3 
Toward U.S. 

Positive attitudes still exist m·Iran
1 

image, " Bulmer said. · said.
by Tim Vercellotti 

Bulmer explained that there One of the traditions that is 
are two groups that harbor sacred to Islam is a close
Despite the seemingly antag­
anti-American: feelings. One is family. · According to Colonel
onistic relations between the 
the nation's youth. 
Bulmer, this was evident dur­
U.S. and Iranian governments a 
''The youth felt that they were ing his tour of duty.
good deal ofposittve'attitude still 
being silenced while the Shah ''The family is more important
exists in this middle eastern 
was in power. They believed there than in the U.S. All of the
nation towards the western 
that the U.S. kept him in power, socializing surrounds the fami­
world, according to Colonel Gail 
and when he left they seized the ly. Close ties exist in the family,
Bulmer, director of the campus 
opportunity to vent their opin­where the father serves as
Air Force ROTC. ''The nega­
ions," Bulmer stated. 
·dictator,'' explained Bulmer. 
ti':'e se!lti~~nts are i~ part 
The other sector of the popula­Bulmer went on to say that
mtsleadmg, Bulmer satd m a 
tion that has negative feelings with the advent of industry, therecent interview. 
for the west is the government father has been taken out of the
Bulmer who spent two years in 
of Khomeini. Bulmer pointed house, thus disrupting the cus­
Iran serving as an advisor to the 
out that this was due to a tomary homelife.
Iranian Air Force still feels that 
renewal of Islamic belief. . Bulmer also pointed out thatmost Iranians do not hate the 
u.s. ''Iran is currently undergoing the new industries brought with 
a religious revival. Iranians are them bars, discos, and western
"I do not feel that they are 
taking their beliefs more seri­dress.
generally anti-west. The 
ously now," tHe Air Force Liquor in particular is a sensi­
people whom my family and I 
Colonel said. tive subject for Moslems. The
lived with still correspond with 
Father Eugene Gorski, a The­Koran, upon which Islam is
us. For the most part this 
ology department professor in based, calls the use of alcohol a
culture does not espouse vi­
world religions, explained that 'sin'.
This Mardi Gras dealer from Regina Hall tries to hold back olence; they are a gracious, 
this resurgence of religious Both Bulmer and Gorski
a grin as she collects more money for charity. [photo by Mike hospitable people. The news 
conviction is a result of the stressed that Iran is becoming
Bzgley] media has built up a different 
arriva] of American industry in like the western world, at the Iran. sacrifice of long-held beliefs. ''A better standard of living The anti-American feelings are
First 1980 primary comes from progress; unfor­a reaction to this. tunately one of the conse­''The Iranians are losing their 
quences of this industrialization Islamic identity, their tradition­is tluu many of the traditional al lifestyle. They want to be
Bush wins in Puerto Rico. 
values are weakened or de­
industrialized, but not at the stroyed. This has occurred price of their values," Gorski
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico (AP) ;\ total of 998. delegates is wiH~ was not entered in yester­throughout history,'' Gorski concluded. 

-George Bush, a former CIA needed for the GOP presiden­day s pnmary. Baker, in third director and ambassador, won tial nomination. plan:, has a toral of five all l·i of Puerto Rico's delegates delegates committed to him so
"We're not claiming victory,
ycstcrday to the Republican far.
but it looks awful good," Bush
Nat tonal Convention in the first r\lso on the ballot were former
said in Nashua, N.H., earlier in 
prc~idcntial prirnary of 1980. Texas Guv. John Connally, who 
the cvcning. "If the returns
Bu-,h's son, Jeb, who was in bst week cancelled a fmal
C<lntinuc as they are, it looks
charge of the campaign here in island visit, California bus­
l1ke we'll have beat them and
Its final weeks, said in an itl(:ssman Benjamin Fernandez, 
beat them bad."
llllt'll ·•v:''Wewon. Thenum­funncr Minnesota Gov. Harold
Hu:-.h said that a victory in
hn~ an: t u far ai1eo 1 for him Stassen, and Kansas Sen. Rob­
Put·n o Rico would illustrate
(ll.tkn) tt• t..l<ch up." ert Dole. There were also two
"iiiC national aspect of our
,\-., returns trickled in from pPiitical unknowns, Bedo Istvan 
candidacy. It is not just a one or
rural prccincts, Baker appea-red Karnly of Washington., D. C.,
two state campaign." · 
to be doing better than he had and Gerald Thomas de Felice of
Ik said that a victory "will lift 
i11 the urban areas -but not well 1-tunden, Conn. 
up llur workers and continue
L'IJI)ugh to overcom.e Bush's 
our rnmncnturn. It will help usc<lmmanding lead there. 
111 New Hampshi-re and set off· Bu~h piled up a commanding s< nrie of the attacks on me."
2-1 margin over Sen. Howard 
B<tkcr in the island's first !'he victory by Bush, 55, gave 
presidential primary which h1m a 17-9 lead in formally 
g1ve:-, all its delegates to the buund delegates over former 
Wllllllng vote getter. Calilia·nia Gov. Ronald Reagan, 
• • • Culhan 
[continued from paf!.e II . 
background, there being few big cities where Kennedy can draw 
from his natural political base. 
"And New Hampshire is basically the same way. It's located in 
New England, but its political make-up is actually much closer to 
Iowa where President Carter was the victor. I feel if we can do as 
well or better than we did in Maine in the New Hampshire primary 
we' II be right on schedule," he sair~. 
S<?me political analysts, however, have suggested that Kennedy 
should withdraw from the race if he doesn't get a clear cut victory 
in New Hampshire g1vetJ his strong New Englat.u uao.e, Ius 
proximity to that state, and the amount of money he has spent 
there. 
"I don't agree with some people who say we need a big victory 
next week in New Hampshire. It's tough to run against an 
incumbent President in a time ofcrisis. I think we will do very well 
in New Hampshire despite this fact, but I also believe Sen. 
Kennedy should stay in the race even if he doesn't live up to these 
expectations," he said. 
Culhan said he would like to see some results from a state more 
demographically attuned to his candidate. He mentioned New 
York and Michigan specifically as falling into this category. 
Culhan also said yesterday that Kennedy will not be able to 
attend the upcoming Republican mock convention to be held in 
Stepan C~nter in March. According to Culhan, Kennedy is 
c•l"'rcf'Jtr·Hirtg on •he c1.rly primary srates and will ._ampaign in this 
state most probably in late March or in Mav. He noted that 
Kennedy spoke at a Birch Bayh fundraising dinner in Indianapolis 
in January and that he expects Kennedy to do well here given the 
successes ofJohn and Robert Kennedy in this state. 
In any case, Lewis will present the signed Keanedy petitions to 
the county clerk tomorrow. In Indiana a candidate needs 5500 
signatures to be included on the primary ballot. A candidate must 
have 500 signatures from each of Indiana's eleven congressional 
districts. Neither Culhan nor Lewis could be sure how the petition 
drive was proceeding in other parts of the state, but if the results 
were similar to those in South Bend this past weekend Kennedy 
will have no problem getting on the ballot. 


e :2 
'SOPHOMORES£IN BUSINESS: 
Are you trying to chaose your major] come to the CAREERS IN FINANCE NIGHT • TUESDAY;FEBRUARY 19 at 7pm ,•
c 
The Oblerver MondaY., February 18,1980 -page 4 

[c3ntiTJuedfrom page 1] 

plumbing," McManus ·com­mented. 
In addition to visiting the workers, McManus has served as an advisor to the campus FLOC group. According to Rick Coronado, a member of the group, McManus set the tone for the campaign. 
''Bishop McManus suggested that we call this a ban instead of a boycott. When you use the word boycott you can get in­volved w1th economic issues. In calling this a ban, we are trying to bring it closer to home, on a more personal basis,'' Coro­nado said. 
McManus stressed the idea that studentsmust be concerned with the people who are re­sponsible for putting food on the shelves. "This is a call of conscience for the students as purchasers. Consumers are mdifferent to what we buy. We must ask the question 'Who picked the tomato?''' McManus stated. 

McManus pointed out that the major companies are more con­cerned with the final product than the workers. "Campbell's
ROCCOS 

is more interested in tomatoes 
than in people. These com­
men's and women's 

panies have the mechanical side all worked out. Why can't
hairstyling 

the same resourcefulness be applied to the human condi­
at comfortable prices tion?'' McManus asked. One of the problems plaguing 5 31 N. Michigan 
the migrant farm workers 1s the increase in mechanization on
233-4957, 

the farms. Bishop McManus explained that he is not against 
... FLOC 
these advances, as long as men Manus pointed out. do not suffer in the process. According to McManus, other 
"I am not anti-technology, but student protests have met with we do have to think of the some success. He offered as an dehumanizing effect on work-example the efforts by the state ers. I am against overmechani-oflndiana in improving housing zation," McManus said. conditions. 
On the sub1ect of the presence Throughout his talk, Me-of illegal aliens on the farms, Manus' message to the Notre McManus expressed dismay at Dame community was clear. the attitudes of Americans who Students should do something feel that the United States has about this issue. no responsibility for these peo-" ''Not to care is bad news. pie. Vote, do not ignore the refer­
"We have enough room; we enduro. A university that is so are not crowded. After all, concerned with human rights somewhere along the line we should protest,'' McManus were all illegal aliens,'' Me-said. 
...Riehle 
(continued from page 1] 

Ellen Dorney, chairperson of the Hall Presidents Council and Riehle's intended campaign manager, said last night "It annoyed me a lot just as Ellen Dorney, a student, I was not allowed to support any candi­date because I belonged to the HPC," she commented. Election Committee rules state that "No candidate may solicit help or support from a person in an official organization.'' 
The major complaint about the election rules is that they are not concise. Call summarized their shortcomings by stating, ·'The rules are alright, but are vague and incomplete in some points." 
However insufficient the rules may be, a violation was commit­ted and the decision will. stand. It remains to be seen how the penalty will affect Riehle's ch:mces, but he vows not to 
''The rules are all right, but are vague and incomplete in some points.' ' 
give up. ''I'm still going for it. I'rn pretty frustrated right now, but on the strength of our experience and our platform, I think we're still going to win," he concluded. 



It ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES 
~ • I • 
We're Fisher Controls Company and as a world leader 1n the process control industry we are constantly seeking engineers to help up provide answers to our customer's needs. We have the unique advantage of being a leader in our field while still maintaining a small-company atmos­phere. And while the technical demands "Of an engineering career with Fisher are high, our recruiting interests emphasize a well-rounded individual with good communi­cation skills. 
Our products include a complete line of mechanical process ·control valves, regulators and instrumentation systems manufactured in 19 countries and sold through 110 sales offices world-wide. Our customers represent the Petroleum, Chemical, Pulp &Paper, Food Processing, Mining, Primary Metals and Power Generation industries. 
An engineer at Fisher might work with any one of the following problems our customers bring to us: 
• 
How do you control the transmission of crude oil through a pipeline spanning the north slopes and tundra of Alaska? 

• 
What considerations need to be made in successfully implementing a computer con­trol system to automatically control the deli­cate wine cooling process during fermenta­tion stage in a California winery? 


• What type of control valves and pneu­matic control instrumentation do you use on an offshore drilling platform located ·in the North Sea? 
(_ 

• What special material and design consid­erations are required for a 15,000 lb. control valve that will determine the electrical power output from a nuclear reactor? 
We are looking for Mechanical, Electrical, Industrial and Chemical engineers for career opportunities in Research, Design, Manufacturing Engineering, Sales Engineering, Technical Writing and Mark~ting areas. 
If you are a junior, senior or graduate student in any one of those fields, plan to attend an informal smoker (refreshments provided) scheduled for 9:00p.m., Feb­ruary 19 at the Senior Bar. Two of our college recruiters, engineers themselves, will be there to answer any questions you might have about a career at Fisher. 
Our campus interviews for fall and spring graduates will take place Feb. 20. Please see your placement office for scheduling details . 
• 



FISHER CONTROLS COMPANY 205 South Center Street Marshalltown, Iowa 50158 
An Equs/ Opportunity Employer M/F 
The Observer 
An-Tostal cotntnittee tneets, plans activities 
by Bn"dget Berry 

One hundred and fifty ofthe "zaniest, most ener~etlc, hap­py, insane, irish. sptrited, and friendly group of frolic throw­ers at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's " met last night to plan An-Tostal events, An Tostal chairman John Callaway said. 
An-Tostal will begin Wednes­day, April 23 and run through Sunday, April 28. "Although we have to be cost-conscious, we're planning to offer as much fun this year as we have in the past," Callaway ex­plained. 
The Hall President's Council sponsors An-Tostal each year and eveots are funded through Student Activities. 
The An-Tostal staff, organized· under Callaway since October, originally asked for $10, 185.00 at the Board of Commission's Budget Hearings. They re­ceived only $5, 595.00 from General Funds. 
After further pleading, accord­ing to Callaway, the HPC allotted $960 more and in the meantime St. Mary's contri­buted $1,700. The committee is still working with almost $2,000 less than expected. 

Chairman ] ohn Callaway 

"The real problem, though," Callaway explained, "is that the An-Tostal committee over­spent by $3,000 last year." He added that funds had not been misused, but that last year's staff had "just gone over­board." 
Callaway expects the Fire­works to be cut this year and he said that the midnight movie will be budgeted at $400 rather than $600. "The committee is counting on the carnival to 
make up for any deficits," Callaway said. 
The various sub-committees will meet again Sunday at 7 pm to entertain any ''crazy and new ideas." The staff has >also planned a Smoker at Senior Bar. 
''We want everyone to have fun," Callaway said. "We allot about $1.00 per student and count on 100 percent participa­tion.'' · 
If it's not fun, it's not worth it," explained Callaway, stress­ing that the staff should also enjoy the planning of the e­1 

vents. "I hope it doesn't john Calloway speaks to a crowd numbering over 100 people last night at the first .1rain ... " he added. An-Tostal organizational meeting. [photo by R]D] 1 
First come, first served 
Placement Bureau policy poses problems 
• • • Commission 
[continued from page 1] 
Bani-Sadr, in an interview over Greek television broadcast Sat­urday, said the hostages would not be freed until the commis­sion delivered its findings and the United States "under­takes" its obligations. It ap­peared to be a harder line than he had taken earlier in the week, when he indicated the Americans might be released ~mce. the commission began its 10qurry. 
The temporary transfer of the hostages to a third party also­has been mentioned as a pos­sible stage in the release process. 
President Carter said Wed­nesday he favored formation of ''an appropriate commission with a carefully defined pur­pose" as a way to free the hostages, but said he could not 
by janet Rigaux Senior StaffReporter 

Due to the first come first serve policy of the placement bureau, long lines of students form in the administration building on Sunday nights and wait to sign-up for interviews Monday mornings. 
According to Richard Wille­min, director of the Placement Bureau, the long lines are inevitable due to the nature of the placement bureau's·system. 
However, he also noted that Notre Dame's system is much more efficient than many other schools. "Several schools are imitating our system,'' Wille­mm satd. 
The present sign-up procedure in the Placement Bureau is tliat students sign-up for interviews the week before they are to take place. Since there is a limit to the number of interviews one recruiter can do, interviews are awarded strictly on a first come tirst serve basis. Also, students may only sign up for two interviews a week on Monday. After Monday, any interviews still open-students may sign up for. 

"I don't like the idea of 
students having to get up in the 
wee hours of the morning and 
having to wait in line." 
Willemin said. "However, it 
will take time to change the 

present system and I'm not 
sure it really can be improved 
on.'' According to Willemin, Michigan State and the Univer­sity of Illinois are using a computer sign-up procedure in their placement bureaus. Those systems are not working and are very expensive. Wille­min added that the 'lottery system would not solve the problem as it is not fair to the students. 

The weeks when a popular company comes to campus sees 100 to 150 students waiting in line starring as early as mid­night on Sunday. Willemin continued, saying-the average number of students in line any given week is approximately 75. 
Sometimes students spend the whole night waiting in line; other times they don' r start coming until 6 a.m. 
It is mainly liberal arts and business majors with a few science majors waiting in these lines. The accounting majors interested in working with pub­lic accounting firms, M.B.A students, and engineering stu­dents never wait in line, Wille­min explained. He-8aid these students and engineering stu­dents are taken care of ::.epar­arely. · 
While. Willemin sympathizes with students that the present sign-up procedure is difficult for students, it is the best and fairest system nght now. "lt' s better to have students waiting in line quietly at night rather than in the middle of a working day," Willemin commented. 
Willemin also explained how 
go into details. For the first time since the occupation of the embassy, he did not insist that the release of the hostages be the first step in any deal to end the crisis. 
Carter also said the United Sates would not admit any role in alleged misrule by exiled Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi -one of the "obligations" Bani-Sadr mentioned several times last week. 
The Iranian· president has also said the United States must pledge not to . interfere in Iranian affairs. And in the interview with Greek. television, he also listed the "return" of the deposed shah from Panama as one of the unsolved obliga­tions. I ,although he had said previously the United States would have to agtee not to block Iran's efforts to return the shah and his wealth. 
It was not clear which public statements in recent days re­flected movement in the ddi­cate, private negotiations. · 
The U.N. spokesman did not name the commission mem­bers. He said an announce­ment would be made once both sides had agreed to the compo­sition of the panel. 
SBP/SBVP candidates to debate 
The SBP/SBVP Forum will Ge held on Wednesday from 7-9 
p.m. in Washington Hall. The c_ancijdares will debate at this ume. 
much the Placement Bureau staffis working to try and fulfill the students' needs. "The staff is doing an excellent job. They open the office early when there is a line and they work over­time. They're very dedicated. This office is doing more work than any other office on cam­pus." 
Student reaction to having to wait in these long lines was varied. According to Myra Morava, a finance major, "It's a pain and makes Mondays a bear. Bur I don't know if there is any solution. The employers coming have a limited number they can interview. If you're motivated and want a job you'll get up early." Morava contin­ued, "They're nice over there. They open early and informa­tion is readily available," she said. 
Greg Sebasky, an accounting major, thinks the placement bureau is doing a good job. "I don't know what else the place­merit bureau can do. If you want a job bad enough you'll wait in line. I personally don't have a -complaint with them,'' he commented. 
However, Mary Schmidtlein, a general program major, was not so satisfted with the system. "I refuse to go before 6 a.m. to get in line, but when I get there then there are already so many \)eople in line, all with their deeping bags. They look like a dock of butterflies," she said. Schmidrlein explained that by getting there at 6 a.m., she usually is closed out of ther first choice and has to sign up for interviews with her second and third choices. "I think it is ridiculous that people" spend the night in order to get interviews. 
!.don't see why the placement bureau doesn't change the sys­tem. There has to be a much more expedient way to do this," she concluded. 


ENGINEERING 
OPPORTUNITIES. 
· Join a great officer team of engineers ?nd architects who build for the Navy. Plan, des19n, construct and maintain shore-based facilities and undersea structures, worldwide. Exercise leadership and take on responsibi!ities yol!ng civilian engineers rarely have-wh1le meet1ng requirements for registration as a PE. Excel­lent pay, housing and medical benefits. 
See the Naval Officer when he visits your placement office on 
19 and 20 ·February 
Want faster action? Call L T Dave (312) 657-2169 (collect) 


THE NAVY'S 
QVIL ENGINEER---~.. 
Monday, February 18, 1980 -page 6









EditOrials 
Psych Servicesdrinking 
survey challenged 
!Jt!ur Hditor: 
! have some serious difficulties 

with vour article of Feb. 
13
' 

um<:erning the recent survey on 
alcohol by Psychological Ser­
vtn:s. 
h
l'o begin with, t e category 

n.unes tossed about in the 
article are anything bur clearIy 
ddined. However, from what l 
· 

n•uIIt gatI1er, those categones-­
pani~.:ularly that for heavyk' · 
I · 1 unre:.J.:
( ttll tng--were enttre y
lt-..til and an insult ro that fine ol,l institution known as "social ·f fi
dt inktng. · · To cIass1 y 1ve 
· ·

dr fflks a week as heavy dnnkmg
is parentlf absurd. As l 
· d

untIerstant n, many octors 
rt·l·ommend a drink a day as a 
bo•>n 10 the health. Unfortu­natdy, it seems that this would al..;o make one a candidate for Al-t\non. 
1:unhennore, ro infer a con­
· b d · k' d

neuton etween nn tog an 
the use of illit:it drugs is simple-minded and irrespon­sible. It is an insult to the intelligence of these of us who o<:<:asionally enjoy the company of the Demon Rum to suggest that we are bound inexorably for some opium den because of our "obvious" moral weakness. In addition, the legal line drawn between alcohol and marijuana (/1robably 95% of the "illicit t rug'' <:ases fall here) does not 1 seem to me to have any corollaries in the moral or physical arenas. The choice between liquor and pot is best drawn, not as between psycho­
· 1 
logical problem and phystca 
rum, but rather between what 
is and is not acceptable to most forty-year olds. 
Margaret Cronin's statement 
ar the end of the article takes the bi~ prize, however. Cronin 
· f 
remar ed that the servmg o alcoholic beverages at hall sec­
· h · h
1
tion parties vto ares t ~ ng ts of abstainers. Nohody ts pour­
· h 
ing it down their r roars, no malter how much social pres­sure there may be. To disallow
f h 1· b
the servin~ o alco o 1c ever-
h d 
ages woul , on the other an , vtolate the rights of those
f
drinkers who are o a~e.
f'£ • 
Perhaps the "su Iering ew , she speaks of can help the rest of us carry case after case of cans and non-returnable bottles up hall stairways so as not to violate University keg rules. 

_Perhaps if the Psychological' largely composed of children Servrces offtce was to look 'fmm the barrios of New York further into the rcroble~ they ·City. In addition, Tim starred wol!ld find ~hat a ong with t~e ' in several sports at Peekskill cltfference m dnnkmg habtts High, and later went on to between _Notre Dam~ and other graduate from lona College in untverstttes,_ there rs a cor~e-:New Rochelle, New York. He spondmg dtfference m soctal !was a top notch student, 
restn<:tton~ and male-to-female rattos. }'a: be. 1t f~om me, hl!wever, to rdenttfy thts as part of the problem. 
Michael T. Hogan 


DOOIISBUIY 
WGIJ'futbt,­
50 WHAT'S MICHAEL. I !XJN'T KNOW. I Gut5S 


As/tis 
I Feel A Draft 
''There are truths worth dying for, But none worth kzlling for. '' 
--Albert Camus 

As· thp winds of war howl
'" 
unnervingly in the background, 
and the Cold War rhetoric bewmes more glacial each day, a few memories come into fi.>t:us. 
' ·r,· rn Dorsey was rhe All-. Arn··rt···an kid, the kind of guy
'" '" 
. made of what Tom Wolfe calls . •' the right stuff.·· A Wheaties 
•·,·tt•·r. Everything about him
'" '" 

indit:ated he was a person with the brightest futyre. He was a wunselor for a number of years at St. Juseph's Home in my lwmetown. St. Joe's was a 1 C.·ttl1l>lt"c· cht.ld-"are fact.lt'ty,
'" 

:garrulous, and one of the most 'popular people in town. . . · Tim was also very patnotJc. 'After graduating from Iona, he 
enlisted. The Vietnam War was raging at the time; it was the
1

• late Sixties. He was convinced, 
'his brother Paul later recounted to me, of the rightness of the war. He was going to Vietnam (0 save that country from the thralldom of communism, to preserv~ it for freedom. The American Way. 
Tim Dorsey never came back from Vietnam. He was blown into a thousand pieces when the b11at he was in was mined in the Mekong Delta. They never found a trace of his remains. 
In the great American Tradition, Tim was memorialized. St. Joe's named a wtrage after him. lona C.>llege msnibed his name on a mini-monument 1 opposite its administration building, honoring Tim and all the lona war dead who paid the highest pri<:e during their stints in Vietnam. 
He never used his college education. His country saw to · that. 
Then there's Matty O'Brien. Matty was a friend and <:o-worker of mine at St. Joseph's Home, where I later 
·worked as a counselor during a stop-out from college. Matty had just been discharged from the Marines where he had spent four years, which induded two tours of duty m Vietnam. 
When I met him, he was having an extremely difficult time assimilating some of the horrors that he' witnessed in Vietnam. And the horrors he lud individually perpetrated. 
The kind of things that gives one nightmares, makes, you wake up in the middle of the night terrified, screaming, with a could sweat pouring down your forehead. Things like killing children. 
One time, Matty's company was liberating a village t;ormerly held by the VC. At one potnt, the company commander spotted some muvement in a rice paddy several hundred yards away. l;earing it was .rhe Cong preparing for an ambush, the men rook cover. 
.. They waited. Nothing. Waited some more. Again, movement. Then nothing. 
Fmally, Matty decided to be the hem..A crack shot (he won the highest marksmanship awards in the Marines), he set his sights in the approximate vicinity of the movement, several hundred yards distant. 1-k waited. Then, movement. 
Pl!lg. 

The shot hit irs mark. Silcn<:e. Matty sprang up, waiting to be sure there was no further movement. There wasn't. He went out, caul iuusly, to examtne the consequen<:es of his precision, of his ne<:essary vigilance. 
What he saw sickened him. He had shot and killed a 12 year old Vietnamese female child. Uullet through the forehead, A real dean shot. 
Matty tells me he still wakes up in a cold sweat, seeing the fa<:c of that nondescript g!rl, huddled and fnghtened Jn a nee field in Vietnam. 
S" mud1 for lib.eration. 

Then there was the group of y<Jung vets who I used to play basketball with every Tuesday night. These were the emotional and mental cripples of Vietnam, guys that were so burned out by what happened to them, or their buddies who got blown away, that they couldn't hack it in the "real world" anymore. 
They were all good guys, a lit tie strange to be sure, but healthy looking. However, you wuld see the devastation in their eyes; you can always see the truth in the reflection of a human eye. These guys were dead inside. Walki'ng zombies. The cost of freedom. 
They were housed in the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Veterans Hospital in Montrose, New York, about five minutes south of Peekskill. We'd play for two hours, full court, five­on-five. The games were raucous, fast and furiously played. The Ve~s alw~ys playe? with extreme tntenslty, as tf their lives depended on the outwme of the game. Which, tu some of them, it drd. But that's how they were trained; 
''yuur life depends on it, 
soldier. '' Play to win, or else. 
Dtl'. 
I"lwse guys are still in that 

hospital. I think about them 
occasionally, rue ked away from 
the publit: glare so that people 
won' 1 get upset or remember 
the fact a quarter of a million 
Vietnam Vets are wallowing in 
spiriwal hells throughout this 
great wuntry of ours, all the 
r('sult of our great effort to 
stabilize and democratize a 
people who just wanted enough 
n..:e to eat. A people not 
intncsted in being napalmed, 
by <:ommie or capitalist. A 
pcupk· <:aught in the ideological 
vise of the superpowers, 
gn•und up and disposed as 
htstori~.:al todder in the ongoing 
<.:• 11·111 ill bet ween the free world 
<llld 1he enslaved masses under 
tit\' mindless barbarism of the 
commies. 
~•>W, I hear the call again. I'l11s time, Afghanistan. Or maybe Saudi Arabia, Th:liland, Western Europe. Israel. The place is really irrelevant; the h.orrur of war is not. lr stays amazingly the same generation after general ion: grtef, blood­-;lted, death, destru<:tion. Plus the living deaths, like Matty a11d the guy·s at FDR. 
1\ friend of mine recently a-.kcd me what I was going to do if the draft was reinstated. ",\Jothing" I responded. Would I go to Canada? "No" I n·,.,p..ndcd. Would I go to jail, then? "No" I responded, "lltey're already woefully over­LTowded. I' rn sure they don't need a Nurre Dame graduate graLtng their cells.'· Imagine 1 he scandal. 
What would I do, really? I kll. Amen<: a is a big country, w11lt plenty of hangouts and lllde .. uts. I'd becume an m11law. I'd just don the ole' Adidas, and revivify those latent feelings of affinity that I've repressed far too long and embark upon the life of Kerouac and other assorted hoboes of America. I'd hit the nhld, jack. The highways and byways of America; I'd walk her t:iries and cemeteries, her tuwns and villages. I'd revel in my revolt, if it meant I didn't have to kill anyone. 
"l~gad, a coward." 
Sometimes, cowardice is <:11urage, espe<:ially in the face of escalating military madness and rampant nationalism. Consuiption is just an aspect of that mania. To choose con­scription is to choose death; just want to live, thank you. I' rn sure their quotas and human coffers will be filled without me. 
Pete Seeger's song expressed it best. 
·'When wtll they ever learn? When wt/1 they ever learn?'' 
Never, Pete. Never. 
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills 
represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor..........Diane Wilson 
&x Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editona/ Editor .............. Ann Gales 
opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor.........M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor...... Mike Lewis newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor ... ................. Mark Ruse of the University of Notre Dame du lac and the frr-e expression of varying News Editor.................Mike Shields and Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC Ni!ws Etiltnr .._-.. :! . . Margie 8rassil necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. 
Christopher Stewart 
Sports Editor ..................Mark Perry Features Editor .....Kathleen Connelly Photo Editor .............. Doug Christian 
~-------------------------------­
Business Manager........Steve Odland Production Manager....John McGra~h Advertising Manager. Mike Holsin~er Controller ... ...............Kevin Manton Circulation Manager......Greg Hedges 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reponed as accurately and



-TheObserver_ 
---------~-------------~-----------------­
The Observer. 'Monday, February 18, 1980 -page 7 
P.O.BoxQ Abortion Quandry ill 
Tom and Pat Murray 
Sexism is areal problem 
Dear Editor: 
I can't help but respond to DlJnald Gerry's unjustifiably caust 1c react ton to Diane jdt.lwk's letter to the editor accus1ng The Observer of sexism. Frankly, The Observer I'> guilty as charged. I wrote the piu ure off as a misdirected a11cmpt at humor by some member of the paper's unprofessional staff, but I knew 11 would offend ~someone with a grcucr social consciOusness than mine. 
Though the caption was obvi11usly intended as a sexual innuendo, the picture was ubjcu ionabk to me because it hdd 1he' girls photographed in -.,ut h a ridiculous light. Had male.~ been put in similar Jll>'>lii<HlS, the picture would lwvc l11okcd farcical or idiotic. lh11 it seems acceptable and t'\'t'll natural for women to be tkpiucd in this way because, as a matter of course, we are llcatnl as silly creatures who arc n111 tube taken seriously. 
Gnry· s letter exemplifies iiJJs attitude -he responds to .Jdchak as if she were a fool, ~111d attributes qualities such as t'lll< >II< •nal ism and exaggeration I•• hn kuer which were not 1 hcrt·. lt is Gerry who is '•n· rrcac 1 Illg. 
Pnhaps we all make jokes ab<>UI tl1e opposite sex, but they thually ernphasixe supposed '-t·x traits; if we must be '>lt'le<>f)''{led, most of us would p1 dn to be characterized as tough, independent jocks than a-, weak, brainkss sex objects. hlril)nmure, jokes about W<>lllen far outnumber those ab<>ul men, and most of them aJcll.l given endorsement ihn•ugh publication. 
s..xism is a "real" problem tiH•ugh Gerry Naively denies it: a11d it is a mure realistic target l<>r aUI<>n ~han worl,d hunger, t'lt. As tur Gerry s fatuous -.,uggest ion that J cfchak leave :-.J,t rc Dame to escape dJstnmination, I'm afraid we would have to quit the world in order to do that. 
Alma Capra 

Dt!ul' Editor: 
Th1.s is in response td Donald Gerry's letter pfinreg in The Observer Feb 15. ' 
Mr. Gerry, at rimes I find ir very unfo.rtunate indeed that I cannot simply leave when I find something offensive. I some­times wish' that I could just stop reading something that I find offensive. It would be nice to think that running away from problems would make them go away; most of us find though with age and maturity that, in fact, it does not happen that way; the problem invariably worsens. 
Like Ms. J efchak, I believe that not only must one be responsible for one's own :ccions bur now must also hold public institutions responsible for what they (consciously or not) serve to either validate or pe rpc tuate. That h'6lds especially true for educational institutions like universities or new;, papers. 
Sexism is a very real problem, Mr. Gerry; by 
treating women as objects (as S<>me thing to be "selected") we express fundamentally the same attitude that degrades all human beings. That attitude contributes in a very real way to those "REAL problems" like W<>rld hunger and pollution -­both of which are very much about degradation. 
Sexism can be perpetuated in very subtle ways; Ms. Jefchak rightly pointed out one of them. 
"I furnor" has traditionally served as a vehicle for a very serious view of the role women arc to play in a patriarchal society. It is an expression--to be seen as one of many --of dom111at ion and exploitation. (II it helps, think of the Irish in the l')th century in this cou111 ry.) The extreme and uncalled for bitterness of Mr. Gerry· s letter leads me to think that he would, in any case, be hostile to a challenge to move to a more human, or if you will, Christian consciousness of nt hers. 
Like Ms. Jefchak, I've found no place to run: I've found that the challenge will remain wherever one goes. 
Paul Lauer 
Mock convention: 


On abortion 
Dear Editor: 
As one who has devoted a great deal of time to the issues of the upcomin(5 presidential election, I feel it IS necessary to supplement Mr. Quinlan, Mr. Falvey and Mr. lams' letter of Feb. 10. 
The writers make a good point of the fact that the Mock Convention presents the time to choose a candidate "who re­flects the highest ideals of our country and who represents what we, as the foremost Catholic university in the world believe in." I would only suggest that the question of abortion is not the sole issue that we as Catholic Americans must consider. 
The institution of a neg;uive income tax, mandatory wage and price controls, l,l,id to the developin~ world and an eco­nomic unton with Canada and Mexico are issues which also must be taken into account as we choose our presidential can­didate. The nominee's ability to work effectively with our legislators and his experience are of equal importance. These writers would go a long way to ask if Mr. Reagan could com­mandeer an amendment pro­hibiting abortion into our con­stitution, or if his proposed blockade of Cuba is a realistic VISiOn. 
Let's not forget, as convention time draws near, that manda­tory gas-rationing, military as­sistance for Pakistan, a national mass transit program and most favored nation trading status for China are among the con­siderations necessary for a bal­anced, conscientious and realis­tic statement of position. 
Terry Keeley Chairman--Platform Committee 
N.D. Mock Convention 

scarred her ideals' maybe forever."
Lest We really be crushed 
Why? Chris tells us that "For her, abortion meant that her existence would not be radically 
Don'tget an abortion or 
and negatively transfortped. She would continue 
promote one out ofthoughtful­
school, ... " This is an tnadegU;ate and selfish 
ness andkindnessfor your 
reason to stop the life of the baby; nor is it the 
''devout Catholic'' parents 
baby's growth a good reason for Mary's We a~e ~Saint Mary's Notre Dame couple, Saint. schooli~g to be ~iscontinued o~ for Mary's life to Mary s 52 and Notre Dame Law '51, Our family 1 to be etther radtcally or negatively transformed. 
consists of four girls and two boys. Three are college graduates, two are in college. One is in high school, a junior. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are represe?ted in the line-up.~ To quote from Chns Stewart's column in the Obs~rver (Feb. 4), so~e might also identify us as a fine upstandmg, upperclass Catholic family.'' Our da~.ghters and so.ns also aspire ''to be s~~cess.fu~ and ~o ''hve happily ever after. If this Is accompltshed, we expect that it will be ~ecause they will imph;ment to some worthwhile degree the Chnsuan ideas and principles that have motivated us and concern­~ng which: ~e confess many personal shortcom­mgs and faliures. Our children are aware that we favor responsible parenthood and that we oppose abortion because humanlife believes at conception. 
We also feel compassionand love for Chris Stew~rt' s, "Mary." He states that Mary chose abortion because none of the other alternatives-marriage, keeping the child, or adoption. wot:.ld have made the sttuaion any better."As part of the parental age group, we have failed Mary. In her mind (with Chris Stewart's approval), "The The latter is a position worth standing up and and fighting for, so as to take the undue and unjustifiedpressures off the "Mary's of the future. Some ~ave already. held the hne; othe~s must follow. Htgh school gtrls manage to stay m class. So can 1\!o~re Da~e ~nd SaintMary's girls who make deciswns wtth hfe consequences. 
Also Chris contin~es '' ...and her parents ~ould not be crushed, which they surely would bq!f•t~~y ever knew about the pregnancy or the abortion. 
Young ,adults, do~'t favo~, your "D~yout Catholtc parents With such kmdnesses and personally ruinous . self sacrifices which call down upon you a.lifetimeof soul .searching. As parents we would be d~sappomted by..the pregnancy not crushed by It. We are a resilient lot. However, as Catholic parents, we would be crushed by your decision in favor of abortion. A pregnancy in our sensuous liberated society, resulting from .nature's 'Yo'-?-derful love e?'pres­sions--though m poor timmg and earned to fulfillment a bit prematurely--can be handled. Mutual love will endure, grow and be hastened to its maturity. Not that the experience won't be trying, but the truly "Viable option" is the life 
only viable option was abortion." However, he !option. 
states that_ both he and Mary are against 
abortion. I believe it is safe to assume that they 
are against it for the same reasons that we are 
against it. 

We grant that not to have an abotion could possibly delay Mary's "aspirations· as most students: to be successful, (and) make a bundle ... ,'' though not necessarily so. Having the baby would not preclude her ''Having a family"in the future and living "happily ever after." By his concluding insights to Mary, he forecasts her real unhappiness when he states: ''Mary compromised. She knew full well that the personalcost was profo1;1nd, lifelong and morally grave ... .It was her choice, a terrible choice that 
W:e, as parents, 'Yould prefe~ to see self-res­tramt and .c?nventwnal behavwr pat.terns fol­lowed. DecisiOns to sleep together dunng finals, or whenever else, carry nsks of pregnancy, as all young adults know. When things go awry in the baby department, . let your own person~! strength ~ and worth come f<?rward an.d don t underestimate your parents _m such times of needed love and support. 
Most importantly, we "devout Catholic"par­ents say to you our sons and daughters, be true to your basic life ideals and tht; life you .helped create. Don't let that life termmate m viOlence and then use us as an excuse_. Tha.nks, but no thanks-and our numbers are m legion. 
Floc? Flak? Flock? 
For many unsuspecting folk, the current 
canvass of_ Ha~ls and writings in The Observer, 
on behalf of the Farm Labor Organizing 
C>mrnittec (FLOC), is another rerun of "duped 
and tn>ublesome" volunteers to assist misled 
and tn~ubled workers. I say "unsuspecting," 
not to tmply "thoughtlessness," but to convey 
"unrdlected bias." 
Many become aware of the migrant workers' dt'mands for better wages and medical programs, safer and healthier working and l1ving conditions. Many, also, become aware of 1 he call to boycott products of the Campbell and L1~1by companies. Yet, the awareness does not il',td to concern or cooperation. The obstacle is neither callousness nor meanness. It is most likely a prejudice about any labor union struggle and consumer boycott. 
For many of us, unfamiliar with the economic hardships of the vast majority of American w• •rkers, prior to the successes of trade unionism in the !')40's, it is easy to accept the cliches that "all unions are bad" and "the labor movement has ruined this country." We have heard these enough on the evening news or at the dinner table. Or, we have read stinging attacks or 
eloquent obituaries on the unions in social 
science or literature. Or, we have noticed the 
omiss~on of unions. in writings on management 
or ethrcs. Maybe history has taught that unions 
once provided a. useful service but personnel 
readmgs now clatm the coming of a "union-free 
envtronment. '' 
Whatever the source or content, as members of an academic community, we should probe as~ thoroughly. and intelligently our prejudices about umons as we would those about corporations, government, or the economic system itself. If intellectual honesty is not a sufficiently . compelling motiye, we might constder eqwppmg ourselves With the skills and knowledge to help these social institutions become more effective and honest representative and just! ' 
Nevertheless, as we become more informed and insightful, let us be more understanding and patient with the FLOC volunteers and helpful w one of· the most exploited groups in the ~merican labor force.--migrant workers. The 
·Rev. Pat Sullivan 
l'arm Labor Organizing Committee is not an ""ld, fat, self-indulgent, racket-ridden union." lt 's leaders live as simply as its members. It has a constitution, strike-action and boycott --all voted on by its rank-and-file members. Aside from charges pending in court for sit-ins and resisting arrest during demonstrations acmmpanied by some deputies' harrassment, FLOC has no record of lawlessness. 
The conditions and demands of these migrants. are reminiscent of the United Farm Workers. lLOC has neither the popularity nor the charismatic leadership of the UFW, although Cesar Chavez spoke at the 1979 FLOC 
·Convention and has endorsed the Campbell and Libby boycotts. As , in ·California, where agr1business corporations are buying up smaller growers; so in Ohio, Michigan and Indiana large corporari~ns like Campbell at:~d Libby, who operate the canneries, force by pricing power small farmers to mechanize their tomato acreage-· or to switch to other products rather than sign contracts with FLOC. 
Campbell and Libby protest that they are not legally involved in the dispute between the ~rowers and FLOC. However, the moral mvolvement is well-documented. So is the support for the boycott. In addition to backing from Catholic Bishops· in Toledo and South 
~Bend, there is encouragement of'bishops and heads of religious communities throughout the cuuntry. Assistance has come from national l~rganizations like the U.S. Bishops' Campaign tor Human Development, the Leadership Conference of Religious Women, the Conference of Major Superiors of Men and the National Assembly of Women Religious. 
Such groups do not espouse causes lightly and netther should we. Such groups do take Catholic social justice teaching seriously and so should we. What Pope Pius XI proclaimed during the height of labor unrest in 1937, we ought to be heeding during the migrant workers' crises. 
'' ... we recommend anew the oft-repeated j counsel ofOur Predecessor Leo XIII to go to the workingman. We make this advice Our own and faithful to the teachings ofjesus Christ and his Church, we thus complete it: 'Go to the workingman, especially where he is poor.'" 

Monday, February 18, 1980 -page 8
The Observer 


Mickie Lawecki administers the oath ofoffice to Hulbert C. Colwell. 




Pos~ Office appoints Colwell 
Almost 130 years of_ Holy Cross management of the U.S. P<lS! Office on the University of Notre Dame campus ended this month With the appoin1me-11t of the first layman as postmaster. Hulbert C. Colwell, a former postr'naster at Milford, Indiana, and a member of the South Hend management staff, was administered the oath by Mickie Lawecki, postal systems exam111er. 

The University's founder, Holy Cross Father Edward F. Sur in, held the dual position of president and postmaster in the early years. Brothers of the Holy Cross order directed the 
·facility in recent years and Brother Francis P. Meduri, C.S.C., resigned at the beginnir_1g of thrs Yt;ar to accept a rn1sswnary asstgnment 10 Ghana. The volume of business at the post office exceeds $!-million annually. 
Any stud~nts interested in 

Juniorclass
~bserver­


to raffle
Editorial Board or 



Daytontix
parlment head positions 
The Junior Class is spunsoring a lottery 
Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Nazz for tickets to the ND vs. Daytun basketball game on 

for 1980-81? 

Contact PAUL at 7471 March 1. The tickets will be 
sold in pairs for $6. For more information call Keith


Applications due Feb. 20 Melaragno Kate
(1745) or Niland (8135). 
I 
I. I I 
I I 
~ 
''I APPLIED MYSELF AND GOT FEDERAL STUDY MONEY.'' 
-Robin Clark 

"My parents help pay my college tuition, and I also work part-time. But last year I realized I might not have enough money to continue my education. "Then I found out about the Middle Income Student Assistance Act. It provides more aid than ever before for education after high school. "I applied and found out that I was eligible for a BasicEducational Oppor· tunity Grant (BEOG ). You should also apply to see if you qualify for BEOG or one of the other programs available to almost all students enrolled in colleges ot technical schools. 1f youij like to get more education and need study money, do what I did. Write to Box 84, Washington, D.C. 20044 and ask for a free booklet. It's called "A Student Consumer's Guide to Six Federal Finan­
cial Aid Programs:' Then get in touch with the counselor orfinancial aid admin­istrator in the school of your choice for 
help in applying. (And be sure to com­plete the forms carefully so you will be eligible for the help you need!) "Remember: If you want education after high school and need financial assistance to get it,...IT'S TIME TO APPLY YOURSELF.'' 


United States Office of Education 



PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
JOB lNTERVlEWS ARE. OPEN TO SI!."N101\S AND C.I\AD\JII.i'E Si\lDtNiS lN TilE MA'I' AND 11.\IC\JS't 
CLASSES,.,., ••. ,1\NY WliO INTEND TO HAVE HITERVIEWS !1'l.IST ti.AVE II COMPLEtED PROFILE (REGISTRATION) ON FILE AT THE PLACEHEtlT BUREAU •.••.....)U!:GlSTRATION, INTERVIEW 
SIGN-UP SHEETS AND EMPLOYER LITERATURE ARE IN ROOM 21J, ADMINlSTRATlON BLDG. 
COMPLETE EMPLOYER SPECIJilCATlONS ON DEGREES, JOB TITL!S, LOCATIONS AND CITIZENSHIP 
ARE GIVEN IN ntE PLACEMENT KANUAJ.., EXCEP'I' FOR THOSE EMPLOYERS ADDED SINCE THE 
PRINTHIC OF 'mE HANUAL. 
THE SIGN-UP PERIOD IS P'ROM 8:00A.M. TO 5:00P.M., HONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY, BEGINNING FEBRUARY 18 fOR INTERVIEWS SOtEDULED FOR THE WF.EK OP FEBRUARY 25. 
Pl.EASE NOTE INTERVIEW LOCATIONS AT TIME OF SIGN-UP. PLEASE POSl 
YOU MUST SIGN FOR YOUR INTERVIEWS PERSONALLY. For Students end F•culh 
DATI Feb. 25 
M-,-,,­

AL .... IG SC Ul -Alhut~ lnllur&nce Cot~eany 
1:1 in Colllp Sci, H&th. Bin Acct for Accounting Analyllt (New), 


X X General Fooda Corporation. Pet Food11 Divlalon ·a in ME, ME.lO, Ch.E. fur Allaoclat.1:1 lndu11trial En&r; Project Engr/Aa&oc Plant Engr. All BBA for Coat Analyat. Location: IC&nkllkee, It. Penn. Res, Villa 
~cqu.irtld, 
General Fooda Corporation. Bt=verase lJ Breakhlt Fooda Divtaion, 
1:1 in ME, MEIO. 

wi,. ener11.l Relnaunnc~ Corporation ~ ~p-Cancelled. 
X 
1,..... 
I'-:~~
F­
• 
X X X X ~..... IJ""' ~V 
f'eb. 25/lb Mon/Tuu. 
X 
X 
X 
X 
Fl'_i!,.~ 
1'111!11. 
X 
X 

X X 
X 
X 

X X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 

X 
~ 
Tue11/Wed. 
X 
X 
feb. 21 
Wed. 
X 
X 
X 

X 

Feb. 27/28 
Wed/~ 
X 
I
FPb. 21/2.8 
X 
X 

X X 
X 
lt 

lt X 
Feb. 29 
~ 
X 
X 

X x 
1-,/ ~J--­
P"""' 
X X 
X 
X 

X X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
Hu111ana Inc. ~1:1 in Fin and HBA with minim1.1111 of 12 houra of Accounting. 
Northern Truat Cou.pany. International Department B in Ftn. HilA with P'tn bkgrd or conctrn. Spanl11h apeaklng candl~atn preferred, 
!!£1!.~r Construction C0111pany Caneral Contractor/Conatruction. BH tn CE. Field Engr. Chicago MetropoUtan aru. !:1tlun­ship required. 
We11tinghouae Electric Corporation BM in Ef:, ME, Het. 
Tulane UntvenltY. Graduate School of Bua. Admin. 
r. in aU <Hacipt1.nea. Locatlon: New Orleana, LA. 
Eaton corporation }
25) B ln Acct for lnduatrilll Acct in Hido,~nt/Southeut. 

26) B in ME, MElD, EE for Product Y.ng/Hfg Eng/Tech S.alea Location: Midweat/So•Jtheaat. 
Steelcuelnc. 
25) 8 in Mitt. 
26) B in ME and B tn EE for Hanufacturln& Engr with prevtoull u.pertence 01 Power Dbtributlon (new) 
1\rnerlcan National Bank and Truat 
n~. MilA.. 
Colsate Palmolive Bin Lib. Ana and Bua. Ad. 
Darton Tire &-Rubber COIIIpany 
1:1 in ME, EE, Hath. 
Hallm&rl< Card11, lnc. Bin F.con, Fin, Mgt, Kkt, KBA for Ftnancfl. BH in Hath or Stata for Data proce1111ing. 
Johnaon Controh, Inc. B tn EE, ME, C0111p Sci. 
Metropolitan Life Insuranc11 Corapany B in Ltb. Artl .Jnd Bua. Ad. 
Sundstrund Corporation BH In KE and EE. 
,'i_l•stvacuCo.!.~!!!!.a_~~ 
1:1 In all dlaclpllnea. 
American HoapHal Supply Corporation RH ln Lib. Artl' or Bus. Ad. for Salea. i!IH in Econ, BBA, KBA with at leaat b houra Acct for Op~trationa. B in Acct, Fin, liSA tn Acc:t or Pln with minimUin of 12 hourl!l of accounttna for Accounting/Finance. BBA or MBA with conctrn tn dil!ltrtbution, tranaporta­tion, logistics or relatad fill!ld for Dil!ltributlon. 
Tllli.BI Inlltrumenta, Inc. P'acilitiea Group Planning and Oealgnlng. BH in E!, ChE, KE, HJ!:IO, CF.. 11 of Arch. Reaponalble Cor layout, planning and deoti&nina tha building and facilith• ayatema naceaaary for manufacturing and teating Tl product.a around tha world. Location: Dallaa, TX. Penn. Rea, Vi11a required. 
American Fletcher National lank 8 in Aect, Fin for C0111111ercial Loan Rep· All BBA for Aaat. Banking Canter Mllnager. 
Con11U11era Power C0111pany (chtmged fr0111 Har.5) MilA for Generlll Servh:ea Auoc. II tn Hgt for Grad. Cenenl Servlcea Aaaoc. Any BBA. With Camp Sci. 
Federal Hhhlolay Ad•inlltratlon a in CE· 
National Steel C:~rporation B in Ec:on, Speech, Mk.t, Mat, Fin. 
Pic\twic:\t International. l.nc. MBA with Fin or Hkt concantrat1ona. 
Union Electric: C011pany BH in EE, ME, H!IO, ME!O. Or, atudanta complatins graduate work in ar••• of operationa reaearch, advance H&th, or probabillty an4 l!ltat11!1tica, Huat have 
acc:reditad undergraduata enslneer1ng d~tgr••· 
Alltttrlcan Can Company BH in HE, !E, Cc.p T.rc:h. B in HElO, Ch!. 
3M C0111pan1_ BH in Hl, !!, Ch!. 
North American Car Corporation 
21) HJA. 
28) B in Aect, Fin for rtnancial Analyat, Aceounttna poaition., Sal.. poaitlona (Fin bk&rd) 
o-na-Cornina rtberalal Corporation BU, and MBA for Sal.. 1\apa. I in Ch!, Mr., Mtl.O for Procel!ll and Qu811ty Control, Plant Enar. 
"-aricllll Hotora Corporat 1Im BU. MIA. Btl in H!, HEIO. 
Bandb Coreoratlon (Mota Chana•• atnc:a printtna of Manual) BM in IU, !!, Met for Product Deaian 6o Dev; B in !UIO for Hanuhcturin& Procuaing for both Enuay Control• Division and AutOIIOtJva Control Sntna in South Band. MDTri'"'iiith, Phyliu, H!, D, A! for~ in Southfhld, MI. 
!baaco Sarvicaa. Inc. BM in CE, !!, ME, H!!O. 
Jon.. i Lauahlin Staal Corporation BM in £1, Ml, Cl. 1 in Lib. Aru and Bus. Ad. B ill 
Ch-. 
National Bank of Detroit MBA with Acct or Pin conctm. I ln Acct. For: Loan Officer Trainee. 
vtr1 tnia !lectric and Power Company I in HI, 0, M!IO. 
Chicaao Depart:.ant of Public Worka B in all Enar dhcipUnea tor Chil and Boila ~nar. 
J. 1.. Rud.•on Cclwvany Cancelled. 
Indiana Univenity. Grad. Sc:hool of GovarNMnt and luain..a Affaire. B in all diaclplinea. llo(llltnaton, IN. 
Hoauk Corporation BH in )!:It, ME, Coap sd. MBA with Acct/Mat bkard or conctm (n-) in Carrolltown, TX. 
Joaeph T. Ry•non ' Son, Inc. B ln all dildplinea. 
Saan «.oebuck and Company B in Lib, Arta and llua. Ad, 
Whirlpool Corporation BH in HI:, !!. I ln Acct, Mgt. 
Winters National Bank and Tru11t C010panY 8 in Fin, Acct. I ln Lib. Art&. I ln C.O.p BeL 
KEIO'a Jnteraaud in opportunitiaa vith et:ltUtAIL In tM tta.napottatiOf\ tn4~&atry are requeattd to contac:t Place-ent 8una11 in a.. 21J, Adlllintauation Bldg. 
Job delllcr1ptlona and other information availltbla. 

The Observer 
Tai, Randy -withdra-w from Olympic Games 
LAKE PLACID, N.Y. (AP)­Two days after withdrawing from the Olympic Games pairs figure skating competition be­cause of a groin inJury, Randy Gardner was "hemorrhaging badly" his mother said Sunday. In addition, she said, he was beginning to be "more andmore depressed'' about the event which caused him and his partner Tai Babilonia to with­draw from competition. With that withdrawal, the United States lost the best shot it has ever had at winning a ~old medal in the Pairs competitiOn. 
Gardner, 21, of Los An~eles, and Babilonia, 19, of Mtssion Hills, Calif., tearfully withdrew Friday night after Randy fell three times during a warm-up immediately preceding the short program, attempting rou­
tine  JUmps  which  his  coach  
John  Nicks  said  l:te  ''never  
misses.''  

Randy said that right after the withdrawal he "felt nothing. I didn't know what was happen­ing." 
As the reality sank in, and as the finals of Pairs competition approached, Randy was "be­corning more and more de­pressed'' accord·ing to his mother, Jan Gardner. 
Fifteen minutes before trying to perform Friday, Gardner was injected with a local'anesthetic­approved by the roc medical Commission-because he said ''I couldn't do two of the elements because of extreme pain.'' 
On Sunday, Randy's brother Gordon said he was receiving treatment from U.S. team phy­sician, Anthony Daly, for the injury. "It's all black and blue now. It's pretty bad." 
Gardner first pulled a groin muscle two weeks ago in prac­tice. He pulled another groin muscle htgher up near his abdomen in practice here Wed­nesday night. He has been treated with ice, compression, a~d anti-inflammatory rnedi­Clne. 
Meanwhile, Randy's father 
Jack denied ABC reports Randy 

and Babilonia planned to turn St. Mary's College Women's ChoirperformedVesperae Solennes De Confessore-K. 339 _professional within a mon~h. by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart last night. fphoto by 1\JD] 

Glee Oub offers refunds 
Since some Valentines were intended Valentine. not ar home or were otherwise Those people wishing unreachable, the Chorale and refunds should contact the Glee Glee Club were not able to Club office in Crowley Hall complete all the requests they between 4 J.nd4:30 p.m. received for singing Valentines. Monday thwugl. F:·iday. No 
·The grq,ups are therefore refunds will be made after 4:30 offering refunds to those .people on friday, Feb. 22. To receive who ordered Valentines without a refund, you must identify the having them sung and without nameof the sender and to whom any message being left for the the valentine was br~ing sent. 
appllcatloftl avallGbl• 
ifl&fS atS1UDENT GOVERNmENTOFFICES 

appllcatlona M FEB 29 b.Y 5=00 pm 
NAVY NUCLEAR PROPULSION. THE FASTEST WAY UP IN NUCLEAR ENGINEERING. 

If you want to get into nuclear engineering, start by getting into the Nuclear Navy. 
The Navy operates more than half the reactors in America. Our nuclear training is the most comprehensive. You start by earning your commission as a Navy Officer. _ Then we give you a year of advanced nuclear training. During your career, you'll get practical, hands-on experience with our nuclear powered fleet. 
If that sounds like the kind of responsibility you're looking for, speak to the Naval Officer Representative when he visits your Placement Office on 19 &20 February • or call (collect) 312-657-2169. 


Belles encounter hard luck 
by Beth Huffman Women 's Sports Editor 

Luck was not with the Saint Mary's basketball team this past weekend as'the now 11-10 Belles dropped two tough con­tests. In her farewell perfor­mance for the season and her college career at Angela Athle­tic Facility, the lone senior for Saint Mary's, Nancy Nowalk, t(>ssed in a ream high 14 points 
i.nSaturday's 61·-50 loss to Butler. Freshman guard Anne Arm­strong also hit double figures for the home team with 13 points, while fellow classmate Maureen King hauled in 17 rebounds. . 
"Butler is number one in the state in Division II," comment­
[continued from page 12] 
sem1-break. 
Poulin responded with his first of the night at 1:54 of the second period, but Michigan made it 3-1 on goals by Murray Eaves, the nation's leading scorer, and Tim Manning. Manning's goal came on a power play at 8:58. Poulin closed it to 3-2 after the second period on a power play at 12:53. 
Jeff Mars put Michigan back on top by two, 4-2 when he beat McNamara with a 40-foot slap shot at 3:02 of the third period. Bill Rothstein responded at 4:46 with his first of two weekend 
goals,  but  the  goalies  held  
strong from ther e.  
Wolverine  r~'  1 minder  Paul  

Fricker to' -·'ed ·; saves for the evening, IIi·: lu, 6 18 in the last period. M, \!an-···a st<'! •ped 23. 
.Jeff Lo~an 1nal'· broke through Fr j, ke . tit' _lle game at 1~:42, setti11g up Poulin's 
ed Nowalk, "They haven'tbeen ed to pull a\major upset. Tht beaten in two years and for home ·sguad defeated Saint 
playing against tl:tat kind of team .we played really well. They never pulled further away than the final rn<:>rgin and we pulled together and had it down to seven for a while. 
''I really feel good about the game. h was a good way to end the home season for me even though we didn't win.· We played well together as a team and that means just as much to me as a win." 
The tough Butler team was paced by Beth Prepenbrink with 20 points and Barb Skinner with 13. 
Thursday evening the Belles journeyed to Purdue-Calumet whe~e their opponents manag­

Mary's in overtime, 68-66, after -being tied 61-61 at t:1e end of regulation play. Earlier in the season the Belles had demol­ished Purdue 85-41 at the AAF. 
Mary Baytess hit 16 points for the losing side while junior Maureen O'Brien added 16. The victors were led in scoring by Janet Goginsley, who hit 27 points on 10 field goals and seven free, throws. Kathy Abel and Eva DelToro marked up 11 each for Purdue-Calumet. 
Jerry Dallessior, second-year men tor for 'Saint Mary's, will lead his team to IUPU on Tuesday. Tip-off time for the Belle's contest is slated 7:00 p.m. 
, , , Home ice 
heroics in overtime. Poulin's third goal came off a deflection of a perfect centering pass by .Jeff Perr.y. 
"You really have to take your hat off to Fricker," said Smith. ''He really came up big. I was a little worried about taking so many shots and running into a hot goalie the i second. week in a row." 
The in balance in shots continued Saturday -only the· comeback role was reversed. 
''We had the two-goal lead and there is not much reason for losing it,'' Smith said. ''Another win would really have helped us in the standings." 
Another victory, in fact, would have put the Irish into third place ahead of Minnesota, which got swept . by North Dakota. But Dan Lerg put a stop to that with Michigan's last two goals. 
Greg Meredith became Notre 

Dame's second all-time leading 
. -;oal scorer with his 93rd and 94th career goals in each of the first two periods. Roger Bourne and Bruno Baseotto kept pace for the Wolves for a 2-2 score after the second period. 
Rothstein and Brian Lundb~rg exchanged scores at 
6:09 and 7:21 of the third period, but the Irish appeared to open the floodgates a minute later. 
Ted Weltzin scored at 8:32 and ) eff Brownschidle beat Fricker at 9:54 to make it 5-3. Lerg closed the gap to one at 12:30, and caused the second overtime of the weekend. with just 42 seconds to play when he deflected a shot past Irish goalie Dave Laurion. 
Laurion was called on for two savc::s in overtime and totaled 2~ 'while Fricker made five stops in the extra session and 
.finished with 38. 
l 
I 
! I 
I 
I ~ 
The Observer -Sports 


Sports Briefs. _ _____, 
Irish netters, swimmers split 
The Irish tennis team fell 9-0 to Michigan Saturday, but rebounded to beat Eastern Michigan by an 8-1 count on. Sunday's action. Both matches were held in Ann Arbor. The split left the team's season mark at 1-1. 
Notre Dame's swim team also split a pair of meets, losing to Cleveland St. on Thursday by a score of 62-51, before coming back to defeat Marshall University, 59-54. The swim team record now stands at 6-5. 
~1n,Ste1nbrer.unerconfer 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (AP) -New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner and his controversial former manager, Billy Martin, were smoothing ov~r details that could free Martin to manage the Oakland A's, 1t was reported SundiiY· 

Molarity 


ACCCRDJN6 TO EUROPE" QJ 
140 A MY I W£ SHOULD 
13£ 1N£RE' .SOON. //ERE'S 


The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 
THE BIGGEST AND THE BEST... AND STILL N0.1 

NOTREDAMEACC 
7shows Tues., Wed., Thurs. Bpm Fri. 4:30 and8:3D-pm 
Sat 1O:UOam & 2~·UOpm 
PRICES 
.J4. C::J..$6.00-$7.00 

·....)/SMC students 
Y2pricefor tues.:Wed-tburs Bpm fri4:30pm satlO:OOam 
TICKETS ONSALE ACCBOXOFFICE 
"........................... 

Monday, February 18, 1980 -page 10 



Women cagers drop heartbreaker 
by Mark Hannuksela Sports W1iter 

Monica Brown's 15-footer from the right side of the lane with twv seconds remaining capped a dramatic comeback, and ga"e the Titans of Marion College a 62-61 win over Notre Dame in women's basketball action at the ACC Friday night. 
The loss dropped coach Shar­on Petro's cagers to 14-6 on the year, with one game remaining, that bei'ng the regular season finale Tuesday night at the Chicago Circle campus of the University of Illinois. 
··Basketball is a 40 minute game,'' lamented Petro follow­ing the contest. "When you stop playing ball with 10 min­utes lefr ... " she added, in a sentence that didn't need to be finished. 
At the 10-minute mark of the second half, the Irish held a )')-40 lead, following a free throw by Jane Politiski. That free throw capped an 18-2 spurt f(>r the Irish, and made win no. 
by Michael Molinelli 



----------------------------------------------------....·------~----------------------------~ 
AC )SS 29 Opponent 53 Columbus's 24 Fountain Ser ~ircu­32 Stand source of treats IP ;;cess 33 Rara-revenue 25 Concerning 
5 t hmese 34 Hit hard 57 Stead 26 Silly gelatin 35 Greeting 58 Incline person 9 Mulberry tor a ruler 59 Hence 27 Advantage bark cloth 38 Strain 60 Wave: Fr. 28 Civil 13 Land divi-39 Like a 61 Adele's rights 
sions swamp brother proponent 14 Parts 40 Late coach 62 Bucky of 29 James 16 -Ben Adhem Lr·mbardi baseball Coburn 17 Hamlet 41 D1 :)C digs movie 20 Handles 42 A~,cts. DOWN character 21 Charters 43 Key word 1 Matterhorn 30 Snow ~2 Female ruff on a P.O. 2 Left-, -:~ leopard 23 Quite a photo side 1,, ii 31 -on 
way off 44 Comparison vessHI (urged) 24 Certain word 3 Mix ,3 Birdlike paintings 45 Turf 4 Saxon helot 34 Cheat 28 Cali'lh's 46 Train 5 Mountain 36 Fixes on kin ,49 Vindicates ridg9s a stake 6 Na... 37 Dodg{;;;; step 42 -en-Lat
Friday's : ..t :mlts 

7 Landon 43 Ate vOJa­


8 Buttons or ciously Grange 44 Old French 9 Daughter hat of David 45 Extemt 10 Camel 46 French town fabrics 47 Gab 11 Study 48 Give care-laboriously ful atten­12 Diving tion to birds 50 Emulated 15 Unconcerned 51 Singular with others 52 Omen 
. 18 Combine 54 Leprechaun 19 Close 55 Negative 23 Friendship 56 Ready or ­
an 
!:ampus 
miniStry 
LENTEN 

SCRIPTURE~ DISCUSSIONS will be held week'y BEGINNING 
TUESiJAY FEBRUARYI9 7-8pnt University Village CentP,r 
WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 20 6:15-7:15pm Badin Hall & Breen-Phillips Otapels 
TIIURSDAY FEBRUARY21 6:15-7:15pm --Badin Campus Ministry Office 
15 seem a pretty safe bet. 

A bucket by Marcia Miller, and another Dail Haynes closed the gap to 15, but freshman Shari Matvey countered with a rebound basket to give Notre Dame a 17-point lead with 7:42 remaining. To the chagrin of the Irish coaches, that was the 
last  time  their  team  would  
score.  
Brown  scored  10  of  her  15  

points down the stretch, as Marion ran off the last 18 points of the contest. Miller, who also scored 15, adde<J five in the last seven minutes, including two free throws which pulled the Titans to within three, 61-58, with 2:09 left. 
··we did everything right except play the last 10 minutes of the game," stated Irish assistant Bob Scott. "We outshot them (27 field goals for Notre Dame to 24 for Marion), we outrebounded them (·15-·12), and then we went through t.l~e motions the last ten mill UteS. 
With the score 61-60, in favor of Notre Dame, Marion had the ball with a chance to take the k-ad. A traveling violation against Brown with 54 seconds remaining gave the Irish a chance ro pick up some breath­ing space, but in a play indica­! ive of the way Petro's cagers played down the stretch, Kelly llicb missed a baseline jumper with 40 St't't;n:d~ left and Marion had another chance. 
.Junior guard Maggie L~lly then picked up her fourth foul wu h 211 seonds left, sending Kathi Dawes to the line for a Dllc-and-une opportunity. Her tlr~t shot missed off the back of the iron, :.1 nd after a short 'iL ramble, a jump ball w~" 'ailed berwec11 Molly Cashm< , and Miller with 23 second~. lf'lr. Marion controlled the .a~ thereby set 'lllg the stage h)r Brown's heroics. 
Senior Jane Poliriski~ playing in hn hnal horne game, led Notre Dame with 23 points. Matvt" 'nd :-:hophor:wre Missy Conboy auLIL" 1 L e&ch. 
Matvey led Irish rebounders with II, while Pulitiski added .ctght. 
... Irish 
[continued from page 12] 

game out of 2' that our starring lineup has been healthy, so we're getting to the point where we have a little continuity." 
Continuity is somethin~ 
Notre ., · ·" ' ~ ' · :t begins its aQnual "playoff push" that includes, after 
Wednesday, home games with Marquette and top-ranked De Paul, and a road game at Dayton on March 1. NCAA tournament bids come out on ;,unday, March 2, and with 19 wins already, the Irish are certain to be a part of the 48-team field. 
"It's these games against top competition it1 h0stile arenas that pr~· .ll e q,.: ·q ~~hy ~n the coun1~ .... , :1ft(..,· ament ~·•·:"~UI•l • '1tt•·1 ''lt­in fact, ,,,L .r·r.,., u:g••· ue uetter prepared as they head into t~e toughest portil)n of their sche­dule with only three weeks until tournament play begins. 
Of course, much will depend on injuries, who and where the Irish play and whether or not ~elly Tripucka is in a celebrat­Ing mood. 
~ 
~ 
-,-----­
. 
The Observer -SportsBoard 

• 

Monday, February 18, 1980 ~page 11 
Basketball 
Saturday's Basketball Scores 
EAST Army 78. Colgate 73 Boston Co. 57, Providence 55 Boston U. 102. New Hampshire 76 Brown 71. Penn 58 Dartmouth 62. Cornell 54 Fairfield 66, Vermont 65 Fordham 42. Rutgers 39 Harvard 81, Col~mbia 71 Navy 76, Manhattan 55 Penn St. 63, Geo Washington 53 Princeton 61. Yale 57 Richmond 67. Niagara 65 St. Bonaventrue 84. Old Dominion 72 Seton Hall 77, Holy Cross 75 Syracuse 72, St. John's, NY 71 Villanova 67, Temple 59 W. Virginia 67. Pittsburqh 66 
SOUTH Alabama 84. Florida 73 Ala-Birmingham 86, New Orleans 75 Appalachian St. 78, Davidson 76 Auburn 69. Georgia 65. OT Clemson 78. N.Carolina St. 70 Duke 66. Maryland 61 
• E. Kentucky 98, Tennessee Tech 84 Florida St. 64. Jacksonville 55 Louisiana St. 73, Tennessee 66 Memphis St. 65, Virginia Tech 63, OT Mississippi 73. Mississippi St. 66 Morehead St. 76. Akron 7~ N. Carolina 68. Virginia 51 Notre Dame 90. S. Carolina 66 St. Louis 69, Tulane 60 Wake Forest ·19. Georgia Tech 48 
MIDWEST 
Bowling Green 91, Ohio U. 82 Bradley 81, Tulsa 74 Colorado 56, Nebraska 55 Creighton 92. Drake 90 DePaul 103, Butler 79 Indiana 67, Minnesota 54 Indiana St. 86, New Mexico St. 79 Iowa 60, Northwestern 58 Iowa St. 66. Oklahoma 61 Kansas 48, Kansas St. 46 Kent St. 74, Ball St. 68 Louisville 61. Cincinnati 57 Loyola, Ill. 102. Xavier, Ohio 60 Marquette 73, Dayton 64 Michigan St. 82. Michigan 74 Missouri 93, Oklahoma St. 81 
N. Illinois 75, Miami, Ohio 60 Ohio St. 71. Illinois 57 Oral Roberts 87, Duquesne 83 Purdue 69, Wisconsin 61 Toledo 85, Cent. Michigan 65 Wichita St. 81. S. Illinois 68 
WEST 
San Francisco 106, San Diego 78 Santa Clara 78, Seattle 72 Stanford 75, California 74 Texas-EI Paso 94, San Diego St. 83 UCLA 90, Arizona 73 Utah St. 54, Cal-Santa Barbara 51 Washington 70, Oregon 65 Washington St. 69, Oregon St. 51 Weber St. 28, No. Arizona 2-2 


Olympics 
LAKE PLACID, N.Y. (AP)-Annemarie Moser-Proell of Austria finally won the Olympic downhill gold medal Sunday that had eluded her, and Leah Mueller picked up another silver medal for the U.S. in speed skating in the XIII Winter Olympic Games. 

Natalia Petrusheva of the Soviet Union led a parage of 11 record-breakers in the women's 1,000-meter speed skating event in which Mueller placed second. Mueller also won a silver medal in the 500-meter race last Friday, and she said the 1,000 Sunday was her last Olympic race before retirement. 
Her Sunday medal broght to four the number won by the U.S. speed skating team in these Games. Eric Heiden, the American superstar who hopes to win an unprecedented five golds, already has ~on two races and competes Tuesday in the 
1.000 meters. · 
Thomas Wassberg of Sweden braved zero-degree weathe:· and high winds Sunday to edge Finland's Juha Mieto by one-hundredth of a second for the gold medal in the men's 15 kilometer cross country ski race. It was a closest winning margin in the race in the history of the Olympics. 

Hockey 
NOTRE DAME 5, MICHIGAN 4lOT) 
FIRST PERIOD: 1, M. Speers, (Eaves) 9:27. 
SECOND PERIOD: 2, NO, Poulin (Brown, Perry) 1:54. 3, M. Eaves (Lund­berg, Speers) 7:47. 4, M, Manning PPG (Bourne. Baseotto) 8:58. 5. NO, Poulin PPG (Weltzin) 12:53. 
THIRD PERIOD: 6, M, Mars (Rich­mond) 3:02. 7, ND. Rothstein (Poulin) 
4:46. 8, NO, Logan (Friedmann) 18:4_2. OVERTIME: 9, NO, Poulin (Cox, Perry) 
1:01. ' SAVES: M, Fricker (51). NO, McNa­
mara (23). PENALTIES: M 6-12, Nd 6-12. ATTN: 5,988 
NOTRE DAME 5, MICHIGAN 5 (OTi FIRST PERIOD: 1, NO, Meredith PPG (Michalek, Schmidt) 3:36. 2, M, Borne PPG (Baseotto, Manning) 5:52. SECOND PERIOD: 3, M, Baseotto (Blum) 6:30. 4, NO, Meredith (Michalek, Cameron) 16:36. TH!RD PERIOD: 5. NO, Rothstein (unassisted) 6:09. 6, M, Lundberg (Blum) 7:21. 7. NO, Weltzin (Collard) 8:32. 8, 
[continued from page 12] 
Saint Mary's foil squad, now 5-2. won two of three matches Saturday . 
In their first encoun.ter, the Belles lost the first of six bouts to Michigan State. They pulled things together, however, and won eight of the remaining 10 bouts-, knotting the score at 8-8.­Sharon Moore's 5-3 victory in 

NO: Brownschidle (Poulin) 9:54·. 9, M, Lerg (Baseotto, Blum) 12:30. 10, M, Lerg (Lundberg, Hampson) 19:18. 
OVERTIME: No scoring. 
SAVES: M, Fricker (38). NO, Laurion (28). 
PENAL TIES: M4-8, NO 7-14. 
ATTN: 6,433. 
WCHA STANDINGS 

W L T PCT. North Dakota 17 6 1 .729 Michigan 12 8 2 .591 Minnesota 15 13 0 .536 NOTRE DAME: 12 11 1 .521 Colorado Col. 13 12 1 .519 Minn.-Duluth 13 15 0 .464 Michigan Tech 10 12 2 .458 Wisconsin 11 15 0 .423 MichiganSt. 10 i4 0 .417 Denver 7 14 1 .341 
• • • Fencers 
the final bout allowed Saint Mary's to claim the win on indi­cators -the Belles had 59 touches against, one less than the Spartan~. 
The Belles dumped Purdue, 10-6 -which brought their winning streak ro five-before falling to Northwestern, 9-7. Moure, a junior, led Saint Mary's on the afternoon with a 9-3 record. 
j 
I I I I 
.--1 
I 
I 
I 
l ~ 
I I 
J 
• l 

• 
j 



----------------~------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, February 18, 1980 -page 12







SRorts 

T ripucka paces Irish .Macy boosts Kentucky
rout of Grunecocks 

LAS VEGAS, Nev. (AP) ­Kyle Macy's long range shoot­by Frank LaGrotta At times, however, it appear­ing for Kentucky unlocked a tie·Sports Wn"ter ed the only thing the Game­game in the final minutes andcocks were looking for was an the fifth-ranked Wildcats over­COLUMBIA, S.C. -Some­exit door, as they let Notre 
hody should tell Kelly Tripucka Dame get on top earl}:' and came the tight zone defense of 
a
dwt you're supposed to get control things for most of the Nevada-Las Vegas to win 
nationally-televised college
presents on your birthday, not game. The only time it looked basketball game, 74-69, yes­give them. 

as if the home ream might make The junior forward, celebrat­a game of it was early in the terday. 
ing his 21st on Saturday, decid-. when cut a Senior Macy, who finished
second half, they with 14 points, made twonl to have a little party-at the 28-point Irish lead (58-30) to 15 consecutive jump shots fromexpense of the South Carolina (60-45) by outscoring the about 23 feet with 9:00 and 8:19c;amecocks. And when it was visitors, 15-2. 

remaining, to give Kentucky aover. he'd given coach Dig~er Then Tripucka took over with 68-65 lead.
Phelps and his Fighting Insh two free throws that, coupled Coming out of the zone withcohorts 29 points, 13 rebounds, with a Tracy Jackson steal­three-and-a-half minutes re­three assists, a couple ofsceals, score combination, gave the maining and still behind by four and a 90-66 victory. 

Irish momentum to pull away­points, the unranked RebelsThe win was Notre Dame's this rime for good. Bill Hanzlik, tried to get back into the game1lJth of the season against only who scored the game's first by fouling freshman center Samfour losses, and it served notice basket, twisted his neck early in Bowie ofKentucky. The seven­rhm Tripucka is fully recovered the second half and spent some 
frum a back injury that side­foot-one Bowie, who led all
rime on the bench wah trainer scorers with 23 points, madelined him earlier this year. 
Skip Meyer. He mana~ed to just one of three foul shots, but''I can see how Notre Dame return later, but expenenced his defense kept the Rebelsmissed Tripucka when he was some discomfort that hampered from taking advantage whenhurt," said Gamecock mach his play until he was forced to they got the ball.
Frank McGuire, who will retire the bench with five fouls at the Bowie finally ended the sus­after this season. "Kelly is a 8:16 mark of the game.

tine, fine ballplayer, and I think pense when he banked in a
''I'm not sure exact!y what lay-up with I: 16 remaining. He
he showed that today." 

happened, but I was hit on one crashed to the floor after theBut while the birthday cake side, then the other, and I think shot, Iandin~ on his hip. Hebelonged to Tripucka, he had I might have blacked out for a ~as not senously injured andhelp blowing out the candles second,'' Hanzlik explained. 
he was able to walk off thefrom teammates Orlando Wool­The far-below-capacity crowd court.
ridge, Tracy Jackson, and Rich of 8,416 saw the Irish shoot 36Branning. Woolridge finished of 59, for 61 percent on thewith 18 points, Jackson 15, and afternoon. The GamecocksBranning 14 to round out could manage only 26 of 58, for perhaps the most balanced Irish 


ND keeps horne ice chances alive
44 percent. Both teams had 11 box score of the year. After­turnovers and Notre Dame won wards, Phelps found it difficult the battle of the boards, 38-22. 
by Brian Beg lane was meeting Friday and Wolverines carne back from ato hide his obvious satisfaction. 
It was a big win for us ... a Sports Wn'ter Saturday in Key Biscayne, Fla., tW<l-goal. 1hird-period deficit to"I felt we had to do two 
good win,'' emphasized Phelps, to try and decide where the -;alvage a 5-'5 tie. It was the
things-exert full court defense ANN ARBOR. -In a season
who will give his players this program's future lies. rir-.t deadlock of the season for
and get our running game wht:n the Notre Dame hockey
afternoon off before resuming As if that was not enough to N~>tiT Dame.
going. Two years ago down team is making success on the
preparations for Wednesday's
here we let South Carolina think about, the Wolverines The Irish moved up to fourth
mad seem commonplace, this

game with Xavier in Cincin­took a 16-0-1 record at the Yost place in the WCHA via the
dictate the game's tempo and past weekend's victory and tie·
nati's Riverfront Coliseum. 

ftc Arena into the series. And, win-tie, and post a 12-11-1
we got beat by five. We knew with the second-place Michigan 
"Our kids played well," he after ge'tting swept at the ACC record (16-I"l-1 overall) for a
they would be looking for an Wolverines was different.
added. "This is only the 12th by Duluth last week, the Irish . )21 winning percentage.
emotional win to use as an On the political front, the
[continued on pag~_ 10] were • fighting ro keep their c..lorado College, which split
uplift for a possible NIT bid.'' University's Board of Trustees 
heads above water for home ice Wl(h Michigan Tech, follows at in the playoffs, which begin in [)-12-1 (.)1l)). three weeks. Michigan takes a 12-8-2 But Notre Dame, which league record into next week's 
sports the most successful road shuwdown at first-place North record. (7-4-1) in the Western Dak11ta. The Irish play at Collegiate Hockey Association, nmth-plact: Michigan State next by Paul Mullaney We've got Illinois and Wiscon­due (12-4), Notre Dame's fe­overcame a two-goal deficit in weekend. Assistant Sports Editor sin next Saturday, and then it's male fencers have an 8-0 record the third period Friday to ''I'm really proud of the way the big one -Wayne State." and a streak of 11 consecutive collect a 5-4 overtime win and we came back Friday," said 
Men, womenfencers addto streaks 
Coach Mike DeCicco's Notre 

N<HIT Dame coach Lefty Smith. 
That match is scheduled for dual meet wins, dating back to snap a three-game losing
Dame fencing team just doesn't February 27 in Detroit. the end of last season. s1 reak. Suphomore center Dave "We could have given up, butwant to lose -or so it seems. 

we did a heckuva job ... 

The Irish fencers won five The Irish women's team, in Senior captain Dodee Carney Poulin paced the victory with matches Saturday at the ACC, only its fourth season of varsity led the women's foil squad with his second hat trick of the year, In the opener, Ted Speers 
gave the Wolverines a 1-0 lead
lifting their season mark to 14-0 competition, is also beginning a perfect slate in 11 bouts. including the game wumer at 
and their dual-meet winning to make a name for itself. After Classmate Liz Bathon was 9-3, 1:01 of overtime. at l):27 Boh when he beat Irish a
goalie McNamara on
streak to 119. defeating Northwestern (10-6), while Susan Valdiserri went 8-3. Saturday. the shoe was on 
The Irish defeated Northwes­Michigan State (10-6), and Pur-[continued on page 11] the othn foot and the [continued on page 9] tern (21-6), Michigan State (19-8), Illinois-Chicago Circle (20-7), and powerhouse Ohio State (16-11). 
''We've 8ot to be doing something nghr," smiled De­Cicco, who has worn the same shirt, tie and blazer for Irish 

I-. 
meets since his ream last lost in 

I 
1975. "I don't even want to 

I 
know what it is that we're doing. I'm just enjoying it while it lasts.'' 
DeCicco was able to use a good' number of reserves on the afternoon, keeping his top fen­cers well rested for the match with Ohio State. The Irish foil squad was led by Andy Bonk's 7-0 weekend tally, while Chris Lyons, 8-1, led the sabre team and ~ich Daly, 7-1, paced the epeeists. 

''I thought Ohio State was really going to give us prob­lems," said DeCicco. "They Whatrs the future ofthe Notre Dame hockey team? No answer beat us, 5-4, in epee, but we has been released from the Board a/Trustees meeting, but last won both foil and sabre, ~-3. Thursdayin practice, the players had a mock protest ofsorts to 






