... The Blue Clue -page 5 
MONDAY,SEPfEMBER 15,1980 
rn1h'2dP·d the sactorium of Notre Dame last Thursday night. performed to a near capacity crowd, blasting the patrons with their tunes. [photo by Greg Maurer! 
Home games blacked out 
NCAA pulls plug on WNDU 
by Mar:y Fran Callahan Senior Staff Reporter 
The National Collegiate Ath­letic Association (NCAA) is no lon,~~;er allowing Notre Dame home football games to be lo­cally televised, and consequent­ly, seven local lawyers are tak­ing the Association to court Thursday with hopes of over­turning the recent regulation, which was announced last Thursday. 
Notre Dame games have been televised for 25 years, and the local broadcasts have al­lowed alumni to come to cam­pu~ for the games even if they are unable to obtain tickets. Channel 16, WNDU TV, has been broadc1sting the football games, but now Indiana Cable­vision wants tht: rights to the games for their cable custom­ers. 
George Roberts, ND '56, is the chief counsel for the plain­tiffs in the charge against the NCAA. In an interview Friday evening, Roberts said he and his legal team intend to· bring the NCAA to court on the grounds that "they are being arbitrary and capricious." 
"The NCAA is not answer­able to anyone," Roberts com­mented. "r.ight days before the game (Michigan), they cavalier­ly announce this." 
He said he and his fellow at­torneys are motivated to in­stitute proceedings against the Association as a matter of"pub­lic interest." Roberts further explained that many alumni plan visits to the campus a­round games which they do not have tickets for-simply be­cause they can watch the games on television and still enjoy the festivities both pre-and post-
SMC BoardofGovernance discusses charity endorsement 
kv Mary Agnes Car11y 
School sponsorship of a specific charity was the main issue discussed at the St. Mary's Student Board of Governance meeting last night in the SMC student government room at Regina Hall. 
According to Kathleen Sweeney, the student body president, the controversy is over which charity the Saint Mary's Student Government will use "their endorsments of energies" to collect for. 
"In the past,"explained Sweeney, "Saint Mary's has collected for the United Way, without questioning or obtain­ing student approval, assuming that it was the charity students wanted to endorse. When stu­dents questioned wht:ther or not to contribute directly to a 
specific charity, controversies arose over what organizations the United Way contributed to, and students questioned the Boards' power to choose a charity to be endorsed by the school," Sweeney said. 
Board members approved endorsement of collection for another charity. which will be announced in the future. 
Plans for a student center lo­cated in the SMC snack bar and alloting room for bulletin boards were also discussed. Al­though a student activities bul­letin board currently exists in Lemans Hall, the Board wants to centralize the student in­formation center in the snack bar. 
"Rent-a-student," a program designed to list students with [cont. on page 4] 
game. He added that local residents, who cannot get tick­ets, also rely on the games being televised. 
"People make plans," Ro­berts commented. Though the University owns WNDU, the station legally [cont. on page 4] 
OC crime wave continues: more beatings and burglaries 
by Molly Woulfe and john M. Higgins 
Three Notre Dame students were assualted and two student houses were burglarized in separate incidents over the weekend. The assaults were all connected with a series of parties that took place Friday and Saturday nights on St. Louis Street. 
In the most serious incident, Robert Beaudine was badly beaten by four black males at 4:30 Saturday morning as he was returning to campus from a party. Beaudine said that he was walking alone down St. Louis Street when a car pulled alongside him. "One ofthe guys in the car offered me a ride," Beaudine said. "Then two of them got out of the car and tackled me." 
Beaudine said that the four men then dragged him out into the street and began kicking him repeatedly. "I kept asking them to stop," ht said. "They already had my wallet, but they just wanted to hurt me badly." 
l'.ventually, the assailants let him walk away, Beaudine said. "I staggered into someone's house and called the police." He was treated for his injuries at St. Joseph Hospital and released. 
In another incident Saturday night, two students were walking to their car when a car occupied by three black males "tried to pin us against a parked car," according to one of the students. 
The student said that words were exchanged with the occupants of the car. One of the occupants then got out of the car and removed a crowbar form the trunk. "Then one of the others came at me and hit me in the throat," the student said. "The one with the crowbar took a swing at me but I managed to duck and he just grazed me." 
The student said he then ran down the street in search of help. Meanwhile, nearby residents came to assist the remaining student. 
"A couple of us ran up the street and they all took off," student Mike Grady said. "Two of them took off in their car and I chased the one with the crowbar down an alley but I lost him." 
The assaulted student was not seriously injured in the incident. 
[cont. on page 4] 
Roemer speaks on issues 
By Davtd Sarphie 
As Dtan of Students, it is James Roemer's job to protect and police the student body. An increase in recent off-campus crime in the Northeast Neigh­borhood, as well as _rule vio­lations on campus, have brought Roemer's job into the spotlight.. 
Q: For th11 benefit of the ~wny freshman who ar11n't familiar with you, what exactly are yo11r specific d11ti1!s? 
A: As the student guide, d11 La,·, states, I am the disciplinary 

Dean Roemer 
officer of the University. Al­though many problems are dealt with by individual Hall Judicial Boards, the more dif­ficult cases are brought before me. I'm also in charge of the 
University's Judicial Review 
oard and University Security. 
Q: D11a11 Ro~mer, what was yom reaction to th11 discovery of kegs in Graci! Hall? 
A: I was delighted to see the Grace Hall Judicial Board han­dle the situation. A case such as this is best handled by one's 
peers.  I  think  they  learned  
something from  the  judicial  
process.  

Q: What was the outcome of last we11k's meeting with the c'dy ofSouth Bend offidals concerniflg th11 recent r/re of crimlf ill thi.r ar11a? 
A: I think the meeting cleared the air for communication be­tween the students, the police department, and the commun­ity. Such student leaders as Paul Riehle and Mark Kelly were able to talk with some of the neighbors from the northeast part of town. Future meetings were also set up, and the police are considering additional se­curity in the area. 
Q: What ~ype of additio11al se­am!y? 
A: I can't say for sure right now. However, Chuck Hurlev, who is an offict:r in the South Bend Police Department, in­dicated that an additional squad car might be used to patrol the area. 
Q: Oean Roemer, do yrm tl11·nk th(' dosing of Goo.re's Br1r htJs (til/Sed more drinkifll!, O!l camp11.r? 
A: I could only speculate on that. I guess that argument could be made. Of course. Corby's is still opt:n, so that should reduce the effect slight­ly. 
Q: What exadlv i.r the jit/11re o/ Corby's? 
[cont. on page 4] 


News Brief§ 
\ Monday ,September 15, 1980-page 2 
According to the Washing­
ton Post public opinion poll, President Carter and Ronald Reagan are running even in their race for the presidency but Carter's strength is limited to the South. Carter and the Republican presidential nominee each drew 37 percent short in the Post survey published yesterday. Inde/ pendent candidate John Ander/ son was favored by 13 percent of the 1,755 registered voters polled. The remaining 1 3 percent had no preference. The Post said the margin of error in its survey was slightly more than 2percenteitherway. While Carter and Reagan were even in the nationwide survey, a breakdown showed Carter a strong favorite in the South, with 47 percent saying they would vote for the. president compared to 34 percent for Reagan. Reagan was the favorite in the other regions, with margins of 35 percent to 30 percent in the Northeast, 40 percent to 33 percent in the North Central and 44 percent to 30 percent in theWest. The Post poll, however, reported that Carter could win the November election ifpositive economic trends continue and a small percentage of voters now leaning toward one of his opponents decides the president deserves some ofthe credit. 
The government's fuel econ­
omyfigures for new cars, criticized for years by motorists who say they don't reflect reality, may be overhauled. The ,_~nvironmental Protection Agency is considering various formulas to adjust the laboratory test figures downward and 11etter reflect what a driver can expect on the road. hPA 0fficials say they have -not decided how much the figures -;hould be reduced, but they hope to issue notice of a proposed rule change in the next few weeks. Critics say the effort is long overdue. An r.nergy Department study of the actual mileage drivers got showed the hPA ratings for 1978 model cars were 21 percent too high. Ifa proper procedure can be determined, the agency hopes to substitute that number when mileage figures for the 1982 models are released in September. 
rhe world's ~ajor .oil producers 
predicted yesterday.. there will be no pnce increase untiL reduced production eliminates the worldwide oversupply of oil, probably sometime next year. Ministers representing the 13 countries in the Organization of Petroleum hxporting Countries begin there meeting here today and, for the first 
time, they are expected to try to devise a coordinated program to reduce production. World demand for oil dropped sharply following price increases amounting to 132 percent in 1979 and the first half of 1980. The cartel set the current target price of $32 a barrel at their last meeting in Algeria in June. 
Federal authorities said yesterday they 
w~re investigating "specific allegations" of sabotage on a 
flight that began as a goodwill gesture by a struggling commuter airline but ended in tht deaths of 34 people. The Florida CommuterAirlines DC-3, carrying 30 passengers and a crew of four, smashed into the ocean during a Friday night th.mderstorm just short of its Freeport, Bahamas dest­ination. The bodies of 16 victims were recovered bef~re the search was suspended late Saturday. "There have been some sp:cific allegations concerning the possibility (ofsabotage)," said Rudy Kapustin, head of a 12 member National Transportation Safety Board team. 
A. pa~el of fe~eral judges has 
appomted.an mdeper:dent speetal prose/ cutor to mvestigate an allegatwn that Tim Kraft, President Carter's national campaign manager, used cocaine several years ago in New Orleans, t~e New York Times said yesterday. The sources told the Times that allegation against the 39 yearold Kraft grew .out ofan earlier investigation this year into charges that 
Hamilton Jordan, former White House chief of staff and ·~urrent deputy national chairman of Carter's reelection campaign, used cocaine at Studio 54, a Manhattan dis­cotheque. ' 
Mostly cloudy and cool. High around 70. Mostly clear and cool at night. Low around 50. Partly sunny and warmer Tuesday. High in the upper 70s. 
Inside Monday 
Conventionalities :The easywayout 
Margie Brassil SMC Executive Editor 
We all live with conventions, they affect and females can have a relationship easily in any of decide many of our day to day interactions with the first three; but in the fourth, a certain fear other people. Everyone knows that in certain· develops which often keeps such a relationship 
·situations, certain conventions must be follow-from occuring. ed. For example, a very simple convention is Much of that fear is a sexual tension that followed when greeting someone,"Hi. How ~Ie-~, --<ievelops from nbt knowing what the other vou?" An empty rhetorical question, but it m~f~, 1 ;ffrson thinks or feels: "Does this person(male he asked none-theless. ~,:jq :sn· female)like me?", "What will this person 
There are other conventions in life whiqhn .. ,~link if I do this, or say that?", or even "What dictate social behavior in a way most peoplejl\jj"tfll everyone else think if...?" School, work, and would prefer they didn't. These conventions alte'!H ;St;)cial relationships have well established de­followed because they make social interactions finitions which control the interaction of the simpler. hveryone deplores them, yet, the puz-p¢ople involved. But when it comes to personal zling fact remains that everyone follows theni. relationships,there are no set definitions, no Conventions become a diplomatic way qf . formulae which, establish the boundaries of the handling stuations people w0uld prefer not to!! rqlation~hip. It becomes up to the individuals to handle. Conventions are simpler, safer and ea~-i;; ~~1meho~0i,§et the t~rms for the personal re­to-use. _ _ c, •..... _ it d:Thfionshipl. Tpese terms are easier to set up 
In diplo~atic si~uations betw.~en count~~e~fap 1iibfF"een,.rwo pers?n~ o~ the s~me sex than for a understandmg exists that what an ambassadipr ts r$tle/femaJe rePttlptlship. With persons of the saying might not be the complete truth. The opposite sex. irivohred it becomes more com­wording of a statement is !TUlde to protect the plitated because of the fears and tension. diplomat and his government. Uplike s¢li::ifl ···The fear of being accepted or rejected, of diplomats, political diplomats a)) understat{d bein taken seriously or not, inhibits male/fe­these conventions, and pick up the hints aqd of p.tio~ships t~e most. This fear of ac-unspoken messages; This is not !!.Iways the .<i 1 4Pt ceritets_ ll}Ostly around the ques­in social diplomacy. As one ~rty~? tryingit :H \! tipns; . es ,he a9:lept me as a friend-who just tactful and conventional the othet patty' · !1j}$ppens o be femf\le?" and" Does she accept me listening for what he/she wal}.t~ tp h~l:P'' on~' ;, Mafriendwho i\!St'pappens to be male?". When ventions dictate that you don'tt:eject putrighta n~ relationship iS ?.not clearly defined as a request for a date for fear ofrejec.:ting theperson ·'!'friendship",t}Iere/ Ois always the fear of mis­or perhaps causing animosity. So ybt.lllf~.tactful understanding.qf1q tension because of that fear. and make up excuses. It's eas;y,, and. ypn don't T}lere is also the f¢ll'tof a "something else" that have to worry too much about itafte~rds. qmld develop. These basic fears lead to more 
There is an even more deplot:~tb~e :COf1yenti9n s~btle and complic~~ed ones which endanger the that puts up barriers in male/fertl,~l~:; fri~~dship~. r~la~ionship. C!;~p:v~ntions are the easy way out The problems here come in .~\~, )~t~OUS re-i9l dealing with the complications that tend to lationships we have with people~l#t~y tim~ .. f}se. Conventjon $tys that a woman should not become cases of "never the ~~Mh:~tl meet ~~or visit a n¥n;t'hat a man should not visit a There are 1) school relationsb:~£!$J'VIhere :oman at hom~ aione, and that a woman and a know a person only in the gl_ ·· trl,j 2) wo ;fin are not able to goop a "date" without being relationships, where we kno . persqp, o qcused of''#ting';.·a~following these types of within the confines ofthe J()B~f ,,ion, 3))9f: . -~pventJo~${~gd thei~.l!ire many more),men and relationships, where we know a person only at womenflose offpersorialrelationships between certain social functions and only in that par-eachother~·pf.4_A,, ticular atmosphere, 4) personal relationships-To try and work through the fears and knowing a person closely and intimately. It is a complications of a male/female personal re­rare case when any of these can be combined. lationship can be painful and sometimes un­And to make it even more difficult, rarely can the successful. It may involve much time and effort 
-male/female relationships .which form in the to achieve a real "friendship". How much easier first three cases ever grow into the fourth kind of it is to just follow convention and never break relationship. Convention dictates that males and down the barriers. 

The Observerhas an opening for an 
Advertising Manager 
Ifyou: ·Havegoodbusiness sense ·Are self motivated 
·Want to earn money 
design editor: Ryan 'again tonight' Ver Berkmoes 
Asst. Design Editors: Patty Hulley, Monica Gugle Copy Editor.: Kim Parent Night Technician: Rich Fischer News Editor: Margie Brassil Sports Layout: Beth Huffman Typz5ts:Myn1e Perkins, Linda Hewitt ND Day Editor: Bob 'sickie' Bernoskie Ad Design: Jiin Rudd Photographer: Rachel Blount Guest Appearances: Mary Pat Ellis, Production Gremlins 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is publishedby the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box a, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Oburver Is a member of the Assoi:lated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Come uptotheoffice andsee Shirley for an application 
-----------~------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

The Observer 

Intern '1 Student affairsoffers Englishlanguagecourses 
By Brian McFeeters 

Imagine that philosophy class 
that has got you swamped with 
reading suddenly being taught 
in another language-say Ar­
abic, or Chinese. 
Some of the over 300 foreign students at Notre Dame have almost the reverse of that problem and it is to help them that the Office oflnternational Student,Affairs is instituting an hnglish as a second language class, starting ·later this month. 
"Most of the graduate and undergraduate foreign students here have studied hnglish be­fore and done well on the TOhFL (Test of hnglish as a Foreign Language) exams, but they still have some trouble dealing with it from day to day," Director of the International Office, Father Thomas Tallar­ida, explained. The spouses of many of the graduate students have even more of a problem, he added, since many of them, like a young lady named Shada from Saudi Arabia, have come here knowing marginal hnglish and would now like to study along with their mates. 
The class will be offered at night free of charge for all foreign students at the Univer­sity and for their wives or hus­bands depending on space, Tal­larida said. He asks that any interested student fill out a questionaire available in his of-· fice in LaFortune basement. These students will later be tested and grouped according to proficiency, and will be taught by an Indiana teacher licensed to teach hnglish as a foreign language. 
Some undergraduates are already being helped to master the language by the Office of the Freshman Year of Studies, but Tallarida believes that oth­ers are simply growing sensitive about the difficulty and resort­ing to plagiarism to keep up. 
Tallarida and Sister Maria McDermott expect the new class to ease adjustment for the new students from over twenty nations, and to help resolve the confusion that afflicts foreign students such as one graduate from Taipei. 
He came from Taiwan to America to study art and is now reading about Greek architec­ture-in hnglish. 
' 'Destruction of ...government'' 
libyaundergoesradical upheavals 
by Robert Me Cartney 
Associated Press Writer 
The Libyan government is confiscating small shops and requiring people to show "ur­gent need" before they can withdraw money from their bank accounts under a sweep­ing program of radical change launched by the nation's revo­lutionary leader, Col. Moam­mer Khadafy. 
"His goal is nothing less than the destruction of all forms of governmnt and economics known to the Western world," says a top foreign diplomat in this North Africa capital on the edge of the Sahara Desert. 
The government has shut down small shops in the name of modernization and replaced them with gleaming five-story, steel-and-glass supermarkets. The shutters that board up the closed stories are painted green, t~e ever present color of Islam and the color that gives the title to Khadafy's three-pamphlet "green book" outlin­ing his "third universal" plan as an alternative to capitalism and communism. 
In theory, Khadafy is trying to set up a kind of town-meet­ing democracy to run· each­community, factory and office. Unlike Adam Smith and Karl Marx, however, he has an army, 
polic.s...~~-~...:.:.~.~~5?-~S~S?-~-~ff...Jom­
rocus
·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::::::::::::::: mittees" to help put his ideas in effect. 
"Khadafy is imposing his brand of democracy on the people," said a high-ranking Libyan government official. "He's trying to force them to take power into their own hands." 
Here are some of the mea­sures Khadafy has imposed on his oil-rich nation of 3 million people over the past two years: 
Last May, the state seized control of all citizens' money beyond a maximum of $3,380 in cash each family has allowed to keep. It can be difficult to get money for a new car and im­possible for a second house, although banks issue cash to newlyweds setting up their first household. Khadafy described the measure as egalitarian ans said state control would keep people from wasting their savings. ' 
The campaign to isolate Libya from Western influences. and safeguard its Islamic "pur­ity" has intensified. Airport customs police routinely con­fiscate Western newspapers when travelers arrive from a­broad. Militant youths have broken into homes and smash­ed grape presses and other equipment used to make wine. 
Teenagers and older men are being instructed in the usc of submachine guns and rocket launchers, part of Khadafy's plan to replace regular military forces with a fully armed pop· ulati6n. 
Wednesday, September 17 Library Auditorium 8:00pm James Hall 
"Promise Them Anything '' 
A50year retrospective of political campaign commercials-free admission sponsored by SU Academic Commission 
monday Septembet 15 Llbtaty Audltotlum 8:00 Dt. Doug,as LaFoUette 
"Who Shou~d P~ay God?" 
genetic englneetlng and what It means fot the futute 
.. 

ftee admission -sponsoted by SU Academic Commission 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor·m·Chief.. .. . . . . Paul Mullaney SMC Nl'ws Editor ........... Mary Leavitt 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Managing Editor ............. Mark Rusr Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Editonals Editor .... ...... Mike Onufrak 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe
Semor CopJ Editor ......... Lynne Daley 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reponed 
Photo Editor .................. John Macor 
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a Executive News Editor ... Tom Jackman majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views News Editor' .................. Pam Degnan Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges of their authors. Column SJ?ace is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varymg opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC Executive Edt tor .. Margie Brassil Production Manager .... John McGrath 
... 


The Observer Monday ,September 15,1980-page 4 
being a "good" but poorly-lit neighborhood, adding, "We thought we were as safe as we could be." "Students are super targets because they're in classes all day,"
.. .OCcrime 
LeBerge remarked. 
Are you interestedin sales? 
... TVblackout 

Chicago O'HARE AIRPORT EXPRESS  
2 TRIPS DAILY SUNDAY thru FRIDAY ONLYs15oo (roullll trip $28.00)  
SCHEDULE DEPARTS ARRIVES sotmiiUIO O'HAIE Sl. 11111111115 Sll. 1DO a.lll. 10:00 Ul. s.tll ... AQirt 1:30 u. ~ 1111111 S1atlln 12:30 p.m. 3.30 p.lll. Slllllllllllllif,.rt I:00 p.m. DEPWS AIIIVES O'IIAll SOUTH 1010 1:01 p.m 3:31 , ... 6:31p.m. 9:00 p.ll. 287·6541 or 234·2196 IN&:JIANA MOTonaus .............. offiZially  


[cont. from page I] 
In a third incident which occurred Saturday night student Greg Holescher was struck in the arm with a knife. According to Holescher, he and a number ofother students were leaving a party on St. Louis St. when a car approached. Believing that the occupants of the car were friends ofhis, Hoelscher said, he jumped up onto the hood of the moving car. 
"Well, I was wrong," Hoelscher said. One ofthe occupants ofthe car reached out with a knife and stabbed him in the arm. "I got off real quick," Hoelscher said. He added that he suffered only a minor wound and the police were not notified. 
"It was pretty stupid," Hoelscher admitted. "I guess I kind of deserved it, but not with a knife." 
In another incident, two juveniles were apprehended by police Saturday night after allegedly burglarizing the off-campus re­sidence of four Notre Dame students. The house, located at 1135 Notre Dame Avenue, is one of the off-campus student houses located closest to the University. 
Neighbors alerted police when one youth climbed to the roofof the unoccupied house and entered through an open window. The youth allegedly opened the front door for his accomplice and the two allegedly pocketed $1 60 dollars in cash and were carrying a stereo from the house when police arrived. The youths were apprhended after a short chase through the backyard and down an alley. 
The occupants of the house-Paul Lewis, Robert LeBerge, T.]. Homstosky, and Jay Coleman-intend to prosecute. Lewis, a first year law student, described the neighborhood as 
• 

SMCGov't 
mat10n about the program will 
[c011t. from page I] 
be distributed to student mail­marketable skills in a directory boxes. for campus use, will regi~ter Senior trip complications interested students in the Saint were also disscussed. Due to the Mary's dining hall tomorrow, number of cancellations, the Wednesday, and Thursday. trip is now open to the entire 
Student organizations inter­N. D.-S.M.C. community in ested in petitioning for alloca-order to make it economicallv 
1 tions of st~dent funds must be feasible. Board members re_gistered with stu­stressed that unless this trip is dent government. More infor-financially successful, all future 
senior trips will be cancelled. 
[cont. from page I]
--TheObserver= 
must transmit its signals to the cable companies if requested to
has openings for 1 
do so. 
""WNDU is req11iretl to trans­mit signals," Roberts explain­ed. "and thev cannot interfere...
Advertising ~esffien 
He emphasi~ed the fact that the complaint is against the NCAA. 
Though cable television has served South Bend for eight years. this tssue is just now sur­
Good Cbmmission 
facing. When Roberts was ques~ioned why the cable com­panies did not request the rights to the games earlier, he replied. 
, , , Roemer 
[cont. from page 1] 

A: I'm not positive, but I
==EUCHARISTICMINISTERS 
think there's a fifty-fifty chance of it staying open. The local Alcoholic Beverage Commis­
Sacred Heart Church & 
sion ruled against the renewal 
of Corby's license, but that de­
Residence Hall Uturgies 
cision was appealed. It's up to 
the ABC in Indianapolis to de­
cide. 
II those wishing to be commissioned Ministers 
of the Eucharist are required to attend an 
Q: Hou· wotdd yo11 compare the 
dircipline at Notre Dame ll'ifh that of other universities?
evering of reflection Either: 
MondaySept. 15-8 pm 
A: Let's not talk about dis­cipline; let's talk about behav­ior. I reallv think our students
Sunday,Sept.21-3pm 
atSacred HeatOl.lrch 
take prid~ in themselves and their university. I don't want to
All those wiS'ling to continue the Minisrtry ofthe 
say that our students are better
EiJcharist are required to attend an evening 
than any others, because that sounds juvenile. Suffice it to say
of renewal. Either: 

that our students are as good a·s
Tuesday, Sept. 16-8 prn 
any others. I think our students really
r,:w Sunday, Sept. 21-4:30 pm 
show a lot of class. Take last
~II at Sacred Heart Church 
week's Student Activities Night as an e.xample. I was impressed
campus 

with that thing.
miniStry 

According to Lewis, the youths abandoned the money as they fled police and that he and his roommates planned to conduct a search of the grounds. 
In the final weekend incident, the residence of Ted Verfurth at 1034 North bddy St. was burglarized between 7:30 and 10:00 Friday evening. Verfurth said the burglars entered the house by kicking in the screen of a window in the rear of the house. 
"Someone was obviously casing the place," Verfurth said. "They knew just when we were all out of the house." He said that goods worth $800 including two stereoes and a color television were stolen. 
Verfurth further remarked that the neighborhood was generally well-traveled and lit, but that the lighting around his house was broken. "It's just another case of the city not fulfilling its responsibility to try and keep the neighborhoods safe." 
South Bend police declined to comment on any ofthe incidents. It is department policy to allow only the officer or detective in charge ofa particular case to release information about an ongoing investigation. 
Some students were philisophical about the incidents. "bven if the police sent patrols around they probably couldn't do anything about this kind of stuff," remarked one of the students who was assaulted. Lewis and his housmates agreed the the University and police are "doing what they can" to combat off-campus crime. 
Other students, however were more critical of both police and university officials. "They just don't listen," off-campus resident Tony Zivalich said. "We have valid points but everytime we start speaking out it degrades to an issue of 'they're only students."' 
Five separate witnesses of the crowbar incident quoted a South Bend police officer as saying that the next time an incident like that occured, students should "not bother to call" police and "take care of it" themselves. Students were unable t0 identify the officer and no copy of the police report, which could be used to identify him, was given to any of the students. 
"Tltiat's stupid," Grady commented. "Where the hell does he come off with saying things like that. If we start acting like vigilantes, they're going to really start coming after us." 
Other students were not as sure. "We need to gang together," one student, who asked to remain anonymous, said. "It's going to come down to them or us, and damnit, I'm going to make sure it's them." 
A student government official, who also asked to remain anonymous, said that he felt that sooner er later someone would be killed in incilients similar to those that occurred this weekend. "Students are going to react and someone is going to die,'' the official said. "I know a lot of people who are packing guns now. Unless someone does something, the whole situation is going to explode." 
"That's one of the things we'd hke to know." 
The general manager of In­diana Cablevision was not avail­able for comment this week­end. , 
Roberts sent his complaint via certified mail Friday after­noon to the NCAA's Kansas­based headquarters. According to the wire services, the ration­ale behind the NCAA decision was that smaller colleges are hurt attendance-wise when 
• football fans know they can stay home and watch games on tele­vision. 
In terms of setting prece­dents. Roberts intimated that the bare issues involved in a court decision could come down to a challenging of the Federal Communication Com­mission's tFCC) regulations. 
"There are so many issues involved here; we just don't know yet what precedents could be set," he said. 
Because of local interest in the Notre Dame football tra­dition, the matter ofwhether or not the NCAA could get a fair trial in the city of South Bend emerges. Roberts did not know whether a change in venue woulCI be in order, but he did call Thursday's upcoming hearing "an attempt to get e­mergency relief' in order to bring Saturday's Michigan game to the screens of South Bend. 
""We are seeking both a tem­porary and permanent injunc­tion," he commented. 
The Soutb Bend Tribune called Tom Hansen, an official affil­iated with the NCAA, Fridav afternoon in order to obtain his reaction to the complaint by 
the local lawvers. Hansen was 
not aware o(the charges until 
notified bv the newspapeJ and 
then did not comment fully on 
the situation since he had not 
yet received a copy of the 
charges. The NCAA ts expected 
to receive the certified letter 
this morning. 
The hearing, which is open to 
the public, will take place 
Thursdav at 10 a.m. in the St. Joseph County Circuit Court. 

Ltfe. [photo by Rachel Blount] 
'Study Help'/ meeting tonight 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program will hold its or­ganizational meeting tonight at 7 P.M. in the Architecture Aud­itorium. This is the last chance for interested students to sign up. All who have signed up must attend. 

The _Observer~======--==· 
T0 da~==========M=on=da=y=,Septem===ber=1=5,=19=so=-p=ag=e5 

Campus 

6, 8:30, 11 p.m.-film­"days of heaven" engr. aud., admission $1. 7 p.m.-nshp organizational meeting, architecture aud. 7 p.m.­german club meeting, 20 LaFortune. 7:30p.m.-arts and letters business society presentations,104 o'shag. 8 
p.m. -lecture-"who should play god" dr. douglas follette, sponsoredd by su academic commission, lib. auJ. 
Homecoming 
This week, Student Union i~ sponsoring numerous Home­coming activities leading up to Homecoming weekend this 
Friday and Saturday and the football contest featuring the Irish against the Michigan Wol­verines. The highlight of the week will be the "Find the Blue" contest, in which stu­dents search (through clues in The OhsertJer) for an envelope which will entitle them to one Homecoming package. The package includes two tickets to the Poco wncert Friday night, two GA tickets to the football game Saturday, and two tickets to the Homecoming dance Sat­urday night at Century Center. 
''The Blue Clue ' ' 
Today 's clue is: Wonderously 
fair is my Lady. How beau­
tious is she! 
Fall Rim Series 
The department ofCommun• ication and Theatre announces its fall semester film series schedule. The following films will bt: shown in the next two weeks at 7:30P.M. in part with the Monday night film series. 
September I 5 Days of Heav­en Washington Hall 22 Pot­emkin " 
Thursday nights there will be a special series of films at 7:30 
P.M. representative of German cinema. 
September 18 Metropolis l'ngineering Aud. 25 M Wash­ington Hall 
Season passes, $14 -and $1 3 respectively may be acquired through the cooperative de­partment of Communication and Theatre. All films are oth­erwise $1 general admission. 
Attention!! 

Folks holding Homecoming Donee Receipts please pick up their tickets Monday & Tuesday at the SU Ticket Office from 1-4:30 pm 
, 

Molarity 

Peanuts 

~ The Daily Crossword 
Michael Molinelli 
Olarles M. Schulz 




ACROSS 32 Fonn of 54 Genius ·19 Tall spar 1 Lurch expression behind 23 Hard­5 Comprehend 33 Publicize something (wort<lng) 
10 Bridge part 34 Tommy's gun 57 Pilaster 24 One of the 

All Rights Reserved 
St. Mary's Sophomore Class Parents' Weekend 
General Chairman and Talent Show Chairman Applications Available 
Student Activities Office LeMons Hall 
Due-Monday Sept. 22 Any questions caii-Erin Flood 4112 Gaynor McCown 4723 
14  Radames'  35  Become un­ 
love  manageable  
15  Detector  39 French gray  
16  Young zebra  40  Likely  
17  Precarl·  41  Prevention  
ously  bit  
20  Tumult  42  Longing  
21  Fe, e.g.  43  Boot or  
22  Fool  saddle  
23  Anagram  44  Cared for  
for peas  45  Trite humor  
24  Tart  46  Branch  
28  Advice to  47  Cicero's  
printer  fault  
29  Word for  49  Extracts,  
a ship  in a way  

Friday's Results 

9t1stso 

58 Part of banks a meet 25 Dote on 59 Killer 26 Demonstra­whale tion 60 Sign 27 Infants 61 Notable 28 Recipe 
times word 62 Cheat at 29 Position cards? 30 "Get 
thee-" DOWN 31 Completed 
• 1 Flatboat 34 Tum away 2 Where the 36Told rock of 37 Ready for Cashel is business 3 Biblical 38 Enemy land 43 Tropical 4 Diogenes hat had one 44 Pays for 5 Thick with 45 Unsullied 
fescue 46 Dress shape 6 Carries on 47 Movie 7 Increase 48 Biblical 8 Convened preposition 9 "Tempest" 50 Tennis 
duke stroke 10 Stone of-51 Leporid 
11  Sulk  
12  Neighbor  
of Sask.  
13  Extreme  
power  

18 "-for my cause" 
52 Ending for refer 53 Neb.'s 
neighbor 54 Rooter 55 Gardner 56 Allow 


Scuba Gasses Fall Session : 
Meeting: Thurs., Sept. 18 
7:00pm 

LaFortune Room 2D 
Bring $30deposit 
Scuba trip to Cozumel over Thanksgiving break Do your certification dives in the beautiful Caribbean ! ! Details at meeting 


r 
The Observer ·Monday ,September 15,1980-page 6 

HE BAHAMAS SENIOR TRI 
has openings for NON-SENIORS (underclassmen, girlfriends, 
,t .. 
boyfriends, family, etc) 
~ 
TALK TO MIKE GIES or ANNE FINK (nd) · DONNA SHANNON or (smc)MARTHA HAUSMANN or stop in at student activities 
COST: 
attention seniors This is your LAST CHANCE to get your portrait taken for the yearbook. Remember. vou have to have yourpicture taken by Delma Studios. You must have sit;~ned up by next week. Do it now! Call 3557 or stop by 2C La Fortune, right off the ballroom. 
THIS IS YOUR LAST CHANCE!!! 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
rgJ IQl 
~SophomoreCiass Lottery~] 
~ For Michigan State I 
~ IQl ~ ~ 
~ 50 Tickets Available I 
IQl ~ 
I MondaySept. 22 at 8:00 , I 
~ ~ ~ S17.50 per ticket includes transportation~ ~ ~ r§l Must be present with Soph.ID to win ~ IQl ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

Taki~Jll~~rts b§~T,s? 
September 22, at IUSB 
Class includes Diagnostic Test Individualized Review Plans, Test taking strategies, and Simulated Examination 
Call 237-4191 for Information 
and register by phone or in person, Division of Continuing Education. Indiana University at South Bend 1700 Mishawaka Ave. 
r-------------------------------------------1

St. Mary'sSAPS: NDStudent present Thursday, Sept. 18' 
The Amazing Kreskin 
8pm inAngela Athletic Facility Tickets available in Sfv1C ticket If,. offices; dining halls 
~--------------------------~-----------------1 
• ...NCAA 

.,. 
(continued from page 8J 
it will stand, unless a court appeal by seven local lawyers can do anvthing. 
What makes this decision rank right up there along with the NCAA's ruling that bookstore basketball is equivalent to a Russian athletic camp is the way they have ignored the actual Arbitron ratings for the affected areas. 
Wt' DU conducted an Arbitron survey to see if their telecasts via cable TV hurt other schools. The areas were Porter County, for Valparaiso, and Kalamazoo, for WestertlrMichigan. In both instances, viewership of Irish football was too low to even show up in the Arbitron ratings, and all that requires is a one percent rating. 
"We feel the viewership close to South Bend is heavy," said Giczi, "but we don't feel it is significant in areas farther away." 
The Arbitron survey clearly supports this, yet the NCAA refuses to focus in on this valuable piece of information. 
To be consistent, why doesn't the NCAA black out Irish appearances on ABC in those same regions it says are hurt by WNDU? 
"Institutions in the NCAA get big benefits from the ABC games," said Hansen, "and all the other schools must put up with this TV com­petition attendance wise. It would not be rea­sonable to hurt a school because it was on ABC. The benefits are just too big." 
In other words, ABC bucks speak too loudly. 
The NCAA obviously feels the benefits from the WNDU games are expendable. B.ut where does this leave ticketless Michiana residents, alumni who make the trip with the intent of tailgating and watching on the tube and, this year, ticketless students, all of whom fall under WNDU's area of service? A random pick of the ratings from a game last year show 60,000 homes in the WNDU viewing area tune in. 
"They are the innocent victims," said Hansen. "If it wasn't for cable pickup of the telecasts, there would be no trouble. We have attempted to explain tlie hazard of unchecked cable tele­casts to Congress, pressing for some regulation. Our efforts have been stymied by the strenuous fight between the cable industry and commercial broadcasters. 
"The only way to control the conflict between TV and attendance at other schools is to not televise the games in the first place." . 
The matter, as you can see, gets complicated and could also have some important reper­cussions on the broadcast industry, what with all the possible implications for regulation ofcable TV. 
But the NCAA has ignored the hard facts­the ratings-in a decision where the ratings mean everything. It has pulled the plug on Irish football on thousands of people while basing its 
decision on theory, not facts. 
Only one thing will prove the NCAA correct in 
this matter. If attendance at Valparaiso or Western Michigan climbs, the extra fans will all have radio in hand.The NCAA might force Irish ·fans away from their TV sets, but it can't take away their right to listen to the game on radio. 
The Bottom Ten 
by Skip Desjardin andRob Simari 

"Oh God, weare sorry with our whole heartsfor all our sins... '' 
The Bottom Ten voters are striking their breasts in humility today. It was inevitable that after viewing so many bad games and terrible teams, the voters would have a bad week them­selves. 
Florida, last week's number-one team, and the defending national champion, chewed up PAC-5 powerhouse Cal-Berserkly, 41-13. Despite a dis­appointing offensive week, the Gators defense remained in top form, allowing Cal QB Rich Campbell to go 43 for 53, for422 yards in the air. As a result, Florida has been put on Bottom Ten probation, and will be banned from the poll for the week. 
It was a week marked by teams allowing their opponents to run up the score so that they themselves could move up in the rankings. A prime example ofthis was the WichitaShockers, who were electrocuted by South Carolina, 73-0. 
Notre Dame had the week off, which allowed God to give his undivided attention to North­western. The divine inspiration helped the Mildcats hang in the Bottom Ten, despite a close 17-10 loss to Michigan. 
Due to a rash ofpoor performances, there was quite a shake-up in the rankings this week: 
School (record) 
1) Vanderbilt (0-1) 
the fighting designer jeans squeeze into the top spot' 
2) Wichita State (1-1} George Rogers of S.C. went 108 yds. on 10 
carries, and the Wichita linemen are STILL on the line 3) California (0-1) oh wow man, what a bummer! 4) Colorado (0-1} WANThD: one high school coaching po­
sition. Contact Chuck Fairbanks 
5) Memphis State (0-2) 
[continued on page 7] 

any regular album or tape purchase with this coupon. Limit 1 per person. Expires 
Oct. 1 1980 

-----------___________________j_ 
-------. .., 
1 I 
The Observer Monday ,September 15,1980-page 7 -1 ~ 
~-­

1 
~ 
I 
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Baseball East Football j 
GB New York
...Oliver 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 5 College Scores
Baltimore East Boston 14Y, EAST 
[continued from page 8] Paul Hornung, Bob Thomas and w L Pet. GB Milwaukee 14'1, Army 28, Holy Cross 7 Chuck M~ 1s easier when one Montreal 79 64 1552 Cleveland 17Y, Boston U. 42, Kings Point 0 gets the suppon that the popular Philadelphia 78 65 .545 1 Detroit 18 Connecticut 38, Bucknell 7
know if I could have done as well 
Pittsburgh 14, Boston College 6
Oliver receives from his fellow Pittsburgh 75 68 .524 4 Toronto 30
without guys like Bob Crable St. Louis 64 79 .448 15 Richmond 21, Villanova 7
players. West
aro~d to make the adjustment New York 61 82 .427 18 Rutgers 21, Temple 3
''Everybody pulls for each Kansas City 
easter. Chicago 55 87 .387 23Y, Oakland
other on this team. Our close­17 SOUTH
Following Irish kicli.ers like West Texas 19 Clemson 19, Rice 3
ness is a key factor, and you saw 
Minnesota 25 y, Florida 41, California 13Los Angeles 82 60 .577
the unity and great enthusiasm 
Chicago Florida St. 52, Louisville 0
Houston 81 60 .574 y, 27~2 
at the Purdue s.arne. It makes California Georgia 42, Texas A&M 0
Cincinnati 77 1 66 .538 5Y, 30 
everybody feel like an imponant .521 Seattle 37 Louisiana St. 21, Kansas St. 0
Atlanta 74 68 8 Marshall 17, Kent St. 7
pan of the team.'' San Francisco 67 74 .475. 14Y, Maryland 31, Vanderbilt 6 
.Ten 

With the injury to kick-off man San Diego 62 81 .434 20 11, Yesterday's games 
Miami, Fla. 49, Florida A&M 0 
' ' 
"late game not included Cleveland 5-3, Detroit 4-0, I st Rame, 13
Steve Cichy, Harry Oliver's role 
Mississippi 61, Memphi~ St. 7 might be more imponant this Yesterday's games Mississippi St. 31, Louisiana Tech It innings 
Toronto 4, Baltimore 3, 13 innings
Saturday against Michigan. Oliv­Philadelphia 8, St.Louis 4 New York 5, Boston, 3 Oklahoma 29, Kentucky 7 (continued from page 6J er and sophomore Mike ) ohn­Montreal 4, Pittsburgh 0 Minnesota 3, ChicaRO 2 S. Carolina 73, Wichita St. 0 
New York 10, Chicago 7 Southern Cal 20, Tennessee 17
ston are being tried on the California 3, Texas I
Atlanta 4, San Diego 3 Virginia 6, Navy 3
flawless defensive play in a 1 Kansas City 4, Oakland 3
kickoff squad by special teams Los Angeles 3, Cincinnati 1 
Milwaukee 3, Seatle 2
61-17 loss to 01' Ms. MIDWEST
coach Gene Smith, and the San Francisco at Houston, (n) 
Illinois 20, Michigan St. 17
6) Air Force (0-2) 
position has yet to be set. Today·s games ' 
Today's games Iowa 16, Indiar.a 7
Lost to Washington 50-7, and A Louisville, Ky. native, Oliv­St.Louis (Hood4-6) at Chicago (Cap ilia Oakland (Keough 15-12) atTexas(Clay Iowa St. 42, Nt: Louisiana 7Caner wants to cut defense 2-6 or Reuschel 10-11) 2-1), (n)
er is enrolled in the College of Michigan 17, Northwestern I 0 spending? Los Angeles (Hooton 13·5) at Atlanta Chicago (l3aumgarten 2-10) at Seattle Minnesota 38, Ohio U. 14
Engineering and is thinking ser­
(Boggs 9-9), (n}
7) Rice (0-1) (Abbott 10-10), (n} Missouri 47, New Mexico It)
iously about medical school. 
San Francisco (Blue 13-7) at Cincinnati 
Only games scheduled Nebraska 55, Utah 9
never carne to a boil and lost ''My goal in football is simf.ly (Seaver 8-7), (n) 
Ohio St. 31, Svracuse 21
to Clemson 19-3 to do my best for my schoo , " San Diego (Curtis 7-8 or Shirley 10-10) 
Purdue 12, Wisconsin 6
8) Duke (0-1) says Oliver, "if personal honors at Houston (Ruhle 9-3), (n) 
SOUTHWEST

far and away the worst in the 
ACC come, that's great, and I'll Rugby 
Auburn 10, Texas Christian 7 
cenainly cherish them, but real­Field Hockey Bavlor 42, Lamar 7
9) Maine (1-1) 
ly, here at Notre Dame, it's a N. ·carona 9, Texas Tech 3 
living on last week's glory A Team
team effon which no one person FAR WEST
Taylor I, Saint Mary's 0 Chicagq Griffin 20, Notre !lame 4
10) Northwestern (0-2) can dominate. Arizona St. 29, Houston 13
Saint Mary's 2, Valparaiso 1
tied for the nation's lead m BTeam Brigham Young 35, San Diego St. It losses Chicago Griffin 12, Notre (),lme 8 Kansas 7, Oregon 7, (tie) 
t: Team Stanford 19. Tulane 14
Also receiving votes: 
UCLA 56, Colorado 14Chicago Griffin 10. Notre Dame 8 
Anaheim Rams (0-2) 
Sports Briefs. _ ____, 
Utah St. 14, Idaho St. 7 
could Roman Gabnel fit into his old uniform? 
Indiania (0-1) 
a poll is not complete without a Hoosier 
Ohio State 1I2-0) 
only beat Syracuse by 10 
Network lV (0-3)  
Looking  at  another  winless  
season  
Quote  of the  week:  Florida  

sebnior Cris collinsworth after the Gator's win over California: "It's like studying for a test for three years and finally getting an 
A. It's a lovely feeling." Don't get used to it, Cris. 
Grapplers begin season 

Student Union Organizational
The Notre Dame wrestling team is beginning its 1980-81 season and is encouraging as large a membership as possible. Beginning season conditioning workouts are underway everday 
Meeting
at 4:30 p.m. in the ACC wrestling room. Freshmen are especially encouraged to begin workouts. 
6:30 Tonight, Sept. 15
0-Ccross country 
The dealine for entries in the 1980 interhall cross country league competition is tomorrow. All off-carnfus team entries 
in Lafortunes Uttle Theatre 
can be made in the interhall office, room C-2 o the ACC or call the 0-C sports commissioner, Tom Disser at 277-8730. 













Classifieds 
-----------· 

llJ·.SPI·.RATI-.l.Y N1·. ...tl FOUR GA
STUD STABLE wants full corral for Mich. FOR RENT: Ugly Duckling Rent-A-Cor. Priced Need manv G. A. or student tickets VOl.UNTi·.i·.RS Ni,l·.lli,ll I.Tuto,..
Notices 
MICHIGAN TICKJ·.TS. PI.J·.ASI'.!
weekend. Need 2·9 GA tix. Coil Tom or J.D. of tram $7.95 a day and seven cents a mile. for Mit:h. ol~dMiami~amc:s. Cnll Tom, to help handicapped studets in local MORRISSEY LOAN RJND Sludentloans $20-1248. Phone 255-2323 for resetVOIIons. llan, or Joe at 4~40. hi~h school. 2.Assist .. Reins of Life­
CALL llAMIAN. 1149. $200 One pen:ent Interest. Due In one Horscbal'k Ridin~ lin thl· handicnp·
--·----~·-·-----....­

Need Mich. Tix. G.A. ur Student. Joe
month. onedaywaH.OpenM-F 11:30-12:30 Important-I dcspcnnt:ly need one f{)r Rent: Ugly Duckling Rent-a-Cor Frl-noon­2 Nl l Alums Nl l Bound or Bust For pl-<1.. l'rnj!rum Wt-dnesdays 4-~ pm.
lt42 Mucho I linero US

In LaFortune Basement. wpy of the Nortun's Antholo~y uf Monday-noon 29.95 w/ 150 Free Miles Minced .. M.. Wolverine Money No Sept.24-Nov.l9..\.Tutor II 1•r. old hov Arnc:ri(.:an Litcrnture, Volume 1. Will Pllone 255-2323 lor reservations Object call Bob }244 in Readin~t (mnlo preferr<~d). 4.Voi­
GERMANY Study-lour for 3 semesler hours Ni·.i·.l >i·.l l: 2ur l GA tlckets for Mich 
huv ur trade frnm wide selection of unrcc:r in ltK1al n1.1rsin~ot homes. \ PUrdue hislory credH. Moy17-June5. 1981. ne;... and mrcly used books. Call TJ at FOR RENT: 2-room apartment. pt!Yate game. WiUinJ.t to p;ly very hi~h prkd! Two GA tickets wanted for MIAMI Turur .\ ~iris as 11 ~roup in Physit:s.(:all \SMC) 5431 up tu Sept. 19.
~~c:a~~cq due Ocloller 10. Wrlle G.R. U07. entronce. snower. kilellenette, utilities paid, ,:arne. call 234-6~~ I small fcc offered. CONTACT 
Mort<. Hls!Oty. PUrdue. wesm Lofoyelle, ssssus 
VOI.L/NTI·.i·.R Si·.RVICi·.S. 7\0H. 74907 
River Por1< area. Single perlion or student. Coli 
~-------·

Have HOTI·.I. RI..SI·.RVATION.Will 288-0955. --~ .... 
WILL TRAili·. 2 MICH G.A. TIXLeprechaun will pay a pot<) j!old for trade for MICH. tics. Call Joe t224 FOR MJ·.GA ARMY G.A. TIX. 1222

West Side TV. 2604 S. MiChigan Sl. · 25,_ Mich. Tix call Jim-8~H3 
.. 2 room opt. $50.00 month. Near.
discount to studenls. We service all make TVs I lesperatdy need MICH. tickets. Call 2331329" I WANT TO BUY ONt·. STUili·.NT TH1: AMAZING KRI·.SKIN RI·.­
and sterlJOS. $10 serviCe call. Free pick-up Need six student or G.A. Michi~an
Joe t224 OR G.A. TICKI\T TO MICHIGAN TURNS on Thur Sept IH ut H pm in

and delivery. We sell used TVs. 234-2400 tickets. Ctln he separated. Cali Larry·
Spacious 2 tldrm Apt. Furnished MUST RENT 
GAM I,. CALL SCOTT AT H702. An,~.tcla Athlctif..· Fnc:ility. I >nn't mi"iS ca11 Anytime 232-0904
Open daltf 10-6. Sol. 10-3. 1049 him!!!!! 
Nollhe TAJ MAHAL but a great opportunity for WANTi,IJ: One tic for Mich. )!tllne. 
Thl· QUAil FORMAL is wmin)l '" URGbNTLY Ni·.l·.ll G.A. ticket< for !he right two students. Young mole pro­

Call llick H716. ~·our t:llltHhH111l rt•sl'tu:!
Army ~tame. Call Jim at 1412.

fessional and sruaenl from Southern 
-----..,.--------

Colllomio, mellOW Psych major furned 
I lesp~;~~~ -n-;;-~d-ivficl,ij;;~-G·.A. ~IARY 111-.TII STi·Rl.IN<i HAS A
For Sale I.Dst & Found 
journalism. llacllpocker. vegetarian. hos nice 21ST BIRTIIIJAY COMING LIP..
tickets. Will pay. Call llirk 1224 I N1'1'1l ARIZONA AWAY GAMI:

house 10 shore in excellent neighbortrood
1967 Oldsmohile KH four door. 
near busline. Includes private room S1udy wllh ·--·--·---------GA'S K5 .17 JIM 
p<lWl"r, air. I(OOd wndition. SnO or LOST: A large turquOise trog ring In lhe l>~spcratdy need one or two
eleclllc typewrilefli, 3 stereos, 3 color tv's,
best offer. Phone 2764 Engineering Auditorium on Tuesday night. I Michi~an tix. Student or GA. Mark Needed: 2-4 Michi)!an G.A. tickets!!!
comp~;e kitchen, living room. pol1y room. 
gona hove !his ring bock. Rivet. II round 
H~63. ~

complete daikroom. phone and answering Please Call 7956!5! 
l.ik~ thc:sc..· uunpu~L·n. mom arc like

fur •ale 1 mkhi~tan ll• call I~4 7 after please coli 277-4784. 
machine, lenced polioo wllh outslae music 
totilfl~· humminJ.t m~· head nut man.

10:}0 pm ood gas grill, two dogs and more. Willing to pay big$ for6-10Mich. tix. Ni'I'P 2 MICH. TICKI·.TS PLt·.ASi,!!loS!: a wallet on lhe night of 1118 purdue gome. Call Steve at K907. 
Mv space htJS been im·;Jded hy had 

Compolillillty and your state or mind P1·.RRY n42 
svntax. RetJilv had h1•tes. R~·anFOR SALh: AKC black II'""' dane. Tile owner Is please contacl him at 287· determining laclofli. S150 a month & lood :intcrfoH:c" Vt!r Bcrkmot•s

14-mos.-old. male, call 28tt ask for 0864. Hi,LP! Si,NIOR Nbt-.llS TO t-.N­
Need MICHIGAN GA tickets Pav Brenda. MUCH S Call 283-8609 . 
ono shore chores. RICK 234-4209 anytime. 
Ti,RTAIN PARt-.NTS AND Lost: Gold Bmcelel somewhere on North FRit-.NilS FOR ONt-. LAST Wtt-.K­Quod (at Appaloosa concen) Reward! Suzy-~-NI> UNili'R THt, GOLD~.N lli,srt.:RJ.'Tij."y -N,,r.n -2-sru­
4672 llOMt-.! Nhl-.ll AS MANY GA 
IJt,NT MICH TIX. BIG BUCKS!! TICKt-.TS TO THt·. MICHIGAN 
CALL RITA-1344 

ollars to make ~·our futr sh1\fc «.:nunt! !he area or HoyesHeoly bldg. Clleck was 
Wanted 
LOST: ACheck payable to the Uof NO. Lost in GAMt-. AS POSSIBLt-.. CALL DIANI:. 
~-------------UNITJ·.I• WAY STUili·.<"T CAMP­
AT 6732. 
Fur s;lle: 2 michiganGA tix to hi~hest 

signed tJy my lofher. Earl Smith. Please call AIC 11:.
bidder. call (smc)4961 until Wed. pm 

INSTANT CASH PAlO FOR ClASS RINGS. 
Greg at 6764. Reward. Need MICHIGAN Student and G.A. 
Men's $35 -$85 and up. Free House ColiS. Must sell S15 worth of Poco tix -
tix-PLI,ASh call Mary Pat at 8091 S I 0 for the pair. call4961 smc Hey255-2402 LOST Class Ring. Gold wllh green stone. One 

Tickets 
man want some sprouts? like bean or 

side of ring has lhe slule or Florida on Hwllh a SOPHOMORt CLASS LOTTt:RY ' 
alfalfa? or maybe you'd like to rolf, ANY ONt·. INTI,RI·.STt:ll IN
WANTED 2 MUSICIANS. ONE TRUMPET AND 
dOlphin over n.Irso 1980 H.S.IhenomelsA. FOR M.S.U. TICK~.TS 7:00 MON­
Filthv rich nlumnus wishes GA Mich perhaps a hot tub? call mellow 1-.ileen PLAYING TABI.l·. Tt:NNIS \PING
ONE TROMBONE TO PLAY IN A JAZZROCK 
l)aWiord Mosley.inlllolsore DMG...call1620 DAY St-.PT. 22 STi,PAN Cto.NTt-.R
tix. Call 277-685 3 after 5. ut 4961. She'.s ~other space together. PONG) CALL llAVI·. 2H·lMK.
GROUP ALSO WANTED ONE FEMALE 
and ask lor David Gaddie. REWARD. BRING YOUR LO.
~ST. IF INTERESTED CALL TED AT 8257, OR LUIS AT 3045. :>esperate need of Michigan tix. St. Marvs COI.I.i,Ge TO CARH.R Please call l:.lleen at 8042. Will pay llesparatcly need 2 GA's for MICH IJAYS . Sept.21-24 OESPERATELy NEED MICHIGAN TlX CALL BOB money. call Mary 4-1-4494 
Personals 
HI,Y KI,NTUCKIANS: GhNi,RAI. ~c,·d 2 MICHIGAN GA's BRUCh SPRINGSThbN wants to be Ml,i,TING Of THt·. KY CLUB NEEDED: One GA and one StUdent Hekel lor a domer needs TIX FOR 
1606 Wi,IJNt-.SilAY, ShPT.I7 AT 7:00
For Rent 
!he Michigan game. CoH Pol Doran of 283-ill TRADe 2 Michigan State GA's \· MICHIGAN mega $U CALL Greg ul~~l'l--------------------~ROO~MS~S~~~MO~-~N~~~233~-1~32~9~-----~·~·hi~P~IPa~ • 1 


-

Monday ,September 15, 1980-page 8
~ports 
~~ 

r 
r­
r 
Notre Dame nine sweeps two from Indiana State Sycamores 
hv nrwe lriiJill Sport.r Writer 
The Irish baseball team o­pened its fall season by sweep­
ing  a  doubleheader  from  In­ 
diana  State  9-5,  and 4-1,  on  
Kline  Field  yesterday  after­ 
noon.  

Head coach Larry Gallo, in his first ga.me as Notre Dame -;kipper, led the Irish over the Sycamore~, who were 3H-19last -;pring and returned 16 letter­fl1(:n from that club. 
A bright spot for the Irish on the afternoon was their pitch­ing, .1 skill considered the weakest part of the team last -;pring. Gallo used nine pitchers ·n limiting [ndiana State, one of the best hitting tearrws in the <:ountrv, to just six runs and ten hits no" the oav. 
The Irish w~re successful all last spring in coming from be­hind and the fall opener wasn't any different. The Irish trailed 5-3 in the sixth before coming up with five runs. The big blow was senior catcher Jim Mont­agano's triple to right-center driving in three runs. 
Senier George lams started the rally with a' one-out single. Sophomore Rick Chryst and 
Joe Barrows each walked to load the bases a-nd lead-off hitter Charlie Tash followed with a sacrifice fly to center. Dan Szajko walked to load the bases. Senior captain Mike Jamieson walked to score Chryst. Mont­agano then delievered his blast to clear the bases and continued home after a wild throw to third. 
The Irish went ahead 2-1 in the second on two unearned runs and added another in the fourth on a single by Chryst, scorif1g Henry Vale.nzuela, who had doubled. The Sycamores scored four runs in the top of the sixth before the Irish rally. 
Montagano, besides the triple scoring three runs, added a single and scored two runs. It was the first game back for the. senior recieier after sustaining a serious facial injury last spring requiring him to sit out the season. 
Left-hander Tom Conroy picked up the win, pitching 11/3 innings of shut out relief. 
The Irish got a surperb effort in the second game from starter Bob Bartlett, who had a no­hitter before giving way to sophomore Greg Jaun at the start of the fourth. Bartlett, a senior, walked two and struck out three. 
The Irish scored three runs in their halfofthe second on three hits, a sacrifice f1y by Tim Ambrey and some sloppy play by the Sycamores, two passed balls and one wild pitch. lams led-off the inning with a single, stole second and advanced to third on a passed ball. lams scored on Ambrey's f1y to right. Scott Siler followed with a single to right advancing Jerry Scanlon, who had walked, to third. Scanlon trotted home when the relay throw ended up in the dugout. Szajko reached on an infield hit advancing Siler to third before Siler raced home on a wild pitch for the third run. 
Szajko had two infield hits and scored an insurance run in the fifth on the Sycamores second error of the g~me. Siler collected two hits while Jamie­son pounded a double. 
The Irish will be in action next Saturday at 9:00 a.m. a­gainst Valparaiso at Kline Filed.· 


Soccer squadfalls, 6-1 
by Gary Grassey andBill Marquard 

ST. LOUIS-Thelrish soccer 
team suffered a setback on its 
trek toward national promi­
nence, dropping a 6-1 decision to 
highly-regarded St. Louis Uni­
versity here yesterday. 

The veteran Billikins out­manned and outran the anxious Irish, jumping to a 4-0 lead at the half thanks to Steve Sullivan's first frame hat-trick. The All­American striker notched St. Louis' first goal on an assist from 
Joe Filla at 7:43, and booted two 
more markers through the Irish 
defense at 39:50 and 44:41. 

NCAA on the blink in WND U ruling 
The NCAA, or at least its television com­
mittee, appears to have gone on the blink­
again. 

The powers that be have decided WNDU 
television, owned by the University, no longer 
can televise Notre Dame football on a live basis . because of the telecasts' alleged detrimental 
effect on attendance at other college games in 
the viewing area. It's a very messy issue. 
The crux of the matter: cable television's 
airing ofWl\'DU's live telecasts, says the NCAA, 
are detracting from attendance at smaller 
schools. Any school within a 120 mile radius of 
South Bend is taken into account in this ruling, 
<tnd that ranges anvwhere from Purdue to 
perennial po\~ers Valparaiso and St. Joseph. 
Nov-· get your calculators out. Find a school; 
let's take Valparaiso. Draw a 30 mile circle 
.tround it, and if there are at least 1,000 cable TV 
subscribers in that area who just have the 
potentiu! to view the Irish games live, the NCAA 
says that hurts attendance at Valpo. Thus, they 
say, take away the TV game and fill more seats. 
But will it help attendance? 

While the NCAA's point that cable TV should 
not be allowed to run rampant with college 
football from wherever it pleases ts valid, it has 
ignored the hard facts in this instance and has 
based its decision purely on theory. 
Let's take Valparaiso again as an example 
since it is just the type ofsmall school the NCAA 
alleges is being hurt. The Crusaders' football 
field seats 4,300 folks, with an average attend­
ance ofapproximately 3,000 per game. They are 
not exactly breaking down the fences to get in. 
And the question of whether or not Irish tele­
casts hurt Valpo'sattendance has different sides. 

Brian Beglane 
"It hurts, -it very definitely hurts," said Valparaiso ticket manager Ken Mueller. How much? "I would say from 300 to 400 people per game. Why, just last week (Sept. 6, when Notre Dame was playing Purdue on ABC) we had our opener and attendance was down over 500 from last season's opener." 
Mueller failed to note that was an ABC telecast. 
"No, I don't tilink it hurts," said Gregory Giczi, WNDU promotion manager. "We have never received a complaint from other schools on the matter." 
WNDU has managed to comply with the NCAA cable TV limits because it said it had a verbal agreement with certain cable companies not to air games in areas which the NCAA says would be hurt. Now why does WNDU not make the grade? 
"We started getting indications from sur­rounding colleges that games were being tele­vised," said Thbmas Hansen, assistant executive director of the NCAA. "Notre Dame had in­dicated it would be able to comply by not having all cable systems take the games, but it became apparent that was not possible." 
Thus the plug has been pulled and that is how 
[continued on page 6] 
Three of St. Louis' fiist half goals came from inside the penalty area, withlng 12 feet of the Irish net. 
"We wanted to play good, solid defense," remarked Notre Dame coach Rich Hunter," but our defense didn't have enough fortitude to clear the ball. 
"St. Louis scored three goals from right on the goalline-we just didn't clear the penalty area." 
Sullivan picked up where he left off as the second half began, scoring at 60:02 on an assist from Mike O'Mara. The Billikins' Dennis Seerey, who assisted on two Sullivan goals in the first half, closed out St. Louis' scoring a minute and a half later. 
It was not until 73:57 had elapsed that Notre Dame cracked the Billikins' defensive barrier on senior Kevin Love­joy's unassisted goal. 
St. Louis dominated the game on both ends of the field, launching 30 shots on the Irish goal while allowing only five on defense. Irish goalkeeper John Milligan kept busy, rejecting 13 .i::iillikin shots in the game. 
Conversely, Lovejoy's late se­cond half goal was only the first of two shots on net that the Irish rna naged all afternoon. 
friday's 1-0 double-overtime win over Cleveland State seemed to have little effect on the Billikins, who tired out the Irish by halftime. 
"Notre Dame was more or less like I expected them to be," commented St. Louis coach Harry Keough. "You can't come on to the socc_er scene and be a great team overnight. "They were nervous at the beginning and they got tired by the end of the first half." 
Keough, whose team is now riding a three-game winning streak after a 1-2 season start, was quick to explain the reason for his squad's success. . "Individually we have better players and collectively we have better players. Plus, we have been playing together for so long (year round in summer leagues), that we have a much better understanding of each other." 
Hunter made no excuses for the loss. "We just didn't play the kind of game we needed to against a team like St. Louis." 
Notre Dame's first setback drops their season record to 3-1 going into Tuesday_ afternoon's game with Valparaiso. The Irish and Crusaders will kick off at 4 
p.m. on the Stepan Field. 
Oliver stands 
as big man 
for Irish 
by Mike Riccardi Sports Writer 
'J>oking down the sidelines at a Notre Dame football game, it might be easy to overlook 5-foot, 11-inch Harry Oliver !n the sea of imposing green-clad men. 
However, m a kicking situa­tion, Oliver is the biggest man on th Irish team. A teammate of 
· Bob Crable, Dave Cohdeni and Tim Koegel at powerful Moeller High School in Cincinnati, the junio placekicker is used to his current predicament. "At Moeller," says Oliver, ''Coach (Gerry) Faust stressed the importance of the kicking game, but we didn't seem to need it that much:'' Oliver achieved All-Greater Cin­cinnati League honors as well as tying a Moeller record by boot­ing 3 7 of 39 extra points as a senior. He earned a soccer letter as an inside forward to go with two football letters as a place­kicker-punter. Commg to Notre Dame with his national high school cham­pionship teammates proved to be quite an advantage to Oliver as a freshman. "it's a great advantage to know yeur teammates before you get t6 a school," remarks Oliver, ''it helps one adjust, especially a freshman football player. Bemg able to go back home with your friends .was a real help. I don't 
[continued on pagel] 


