
, , , Exorcism -page 3 

VOLUME XV., NO. 54 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1980
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Attorney outlines pending lawsuit against University 
by Mary Fran Callahan ·Senior Staff Reporter 
Last winter, 66 women initiated a lawsuit-which is to be heard in St.Joseph's District Court on Nov. 24-charging the University with sex discrimination. 
Of the 66 women, 50 are currently faculty members, according to attorney Charles Barnhill, who is representing the women in a class action suit. Barnhill, of the Chicago-based Charles Barnhill & Associates, yesterday explained the grounds of the lawsuit. 
"Notre Dame systematically discriminated against them (the plain­tiffs)," he contended. 
Timothy McDevitt, general counsel for the University, said the women are charging that they were discriminated against in several areas. Some plaintiffs claim they were denied tenure; others claim they were denied jobs-because of the their sex. 
Whether or not the lawsuit can be settled out of court remains nebulous. 
When asked if negotiations were pending to reach such a settlement, McDevitt replied, "At the present time, no. Right now, it surely looks as though we'll be in court on the 24th." 
Barnhill, however, responded to the same question by saying, "I'm not at liberty to say anything right now." He said he would "have details" in the near future. 
Several years ago, Brown University was involved in a similar lawsuit. McDevitt explained that the court decided that it would keep a watchful eye on Brown to insure itcomplied with legal guidelines. A more recent case at the University of Minnesota resulted in a settlement, according to McDevitt. 
Barnhill contended, however, that the "rulings in the past have gone agaimt the women:" He attributed unfavorable rulings to 
(amtinued on page 4) 



Anti-critne progratn includes Chetn-Shield 
Hy David Rickabaugh Staff Reporter 
In an attemp~ to combat the rising crime wave at Notre Dame, Student Government has developed a crime prevention program which includes the sel­ling ofChem-Shield, a mace-like spray hidden in a leather case key chain, at the Hammes Bookstore starting Friday. 
Chcm-Shield is an irritant that affects the would-be attacker's respiratory areas, eyes, and skin. The mugger's eyes close and the nose is unable to be used for breathing due to the constricting of moist membranes. 
The spray, which is made by the Weapon Corporation of America, is a non-toxic sub­stance which may be nullified by rinsing the eyes and washing the skin with soap and water. 
Rose May, Security Commis­sioner for Student Government, was responsible for the Student Government's endorsement of Chem-Shield as a method of 
crime prevention. "It does not make you safe, but if carried in the hand rather than in a pocket, you may be able to 
ward  off a  possible attacker,"  
stated  May  in  support of her  
project.  

May feels the spray is better protection than a weapon which could seriously harm both victim and attacker. 
May stated, "The selling of Chem-Shield in the bookstore may eliminate the false sense of security which presides at Notre Dame, but mainly we are hoping the off-campus students will con­sider carrying Chem-Shield when walking to and from the cam­pus." 
In addition to the spray, May conducted an inspection of the night lighting situation at the University with Notre Dame Secu·rity. 
Student Government is also developing a poster campaign urging students to lock their doors to prevent crime. 
Prevention has not been con­women's dorms with the placing fined to the individual; several of a telephone and resident list­dorms are taking crime preven­ing at the main door in an 
tion measures. attempt to prevent unwanted 
All doors on men's dorms, ex­intruders from entering the hall. cept for the main entrances, will The Grace and Flanner Towers be locked after 7:00p.m. Zahm are going to have a new lock Hall has installed a system similar system installed as a crime pre­to the detex system used in vention measure. 
Diplo~ats 
prepare Iran 

negotiations 
Washington (AP)-The di­plomatic team sent to Algeria bv President Carter is carrying ~ pledge of non-intervention in Iran's internal affairs along with an explanation of the difficulties in meeting other terms for free­ing: the 52 American hostages,l!.B. officials said yesterday. 
"We would like to be as posi­tive as possible, but they have to understand the legal and other complications," one official, who asked not to be identified, told The Associated Press. "Gen­erally, it's a positive response." 
But, he and other officials stressed, returning the assets of the late Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi and cancelling all claims against Iran -two of the con­ditions laid down by the Iranian parliament on Nov. 2-would be extremely difficult to arrange for legal and other reasons. 
"It's hard to say what flexi­bility, if any, there is in the Iranian position," said the of­ficial, who has closely followed the hostage crisis. "It's also dif­ficult to say how much will there is to end the thing." 
The U.S. mission, headed by Deputy Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher, flew to Algiers yesterday to explain the complications to Foreign MinisterMohamed Benyahia and his aides and wait long enough for any Iranian response. 
While Christopher and the 
(continued on page 4) 
.,, 

After dawn~ first light 

Cadettes honor Edmund Fizgerald 
by Kathy Horak Associated Press Wrtter 
DETROIT (AP)--Just after dawn's chilly first light Mon­day, 80 cadets from the Great Lakes Maritime Academy will stand at silent attention as two wreaths are dropped into Grand Traverse Bay. 
They will honor the crewmen of the freishter F.dmund Fitz­gerald, wh1ch sank with all 29 hands during a vicious storm on Lake Superior five years ago, on Nov. 10, 1975. 
The investigation into the final voyage of the evormous ore earner was officially closed with a U.S. Coast Guard report in]uly 1977. But the legend of the Edmund Fitzgerald sur­vives, in a haunting ballad of singer Gordon Lightfoot and as a testimonial to the treacherous gales of November and the Great Lakes sailors who defy them. 
At Mariners' Church in downtown Detroit, the Rev. Richard Ingalls will toll the sanctuary bell 29 times Sunday when special services mark the Fitzgerald anniversary. 
''We keep it alive every year. It's one significant tra­gedy that will keep alive our recognition of what the Great Lakes are and the personnel who work them," Ingalls said in an interview. 
He. said he remembers the 
TUESDAY·.·.·.·.....·.·.•.·.....·;·.·.·;·.
~-.·.·.·.·························· 

=;==========='$;======FOCUS 
sinking "as though it were yesterday." 
The 729 foot freighter was bound for Detroit from Super­ior, Wis., loaded with 26,126 tons of taconite ore pellets. The captain, Ernest M. McSorley of 
Toledo,  Ohio,  had  40  years'  
experience  traversing  the  
lakes.  
Records  from  that  fateful  

Monday show the Fitzgerald was nearing Whitefish Point in 
southeastern Lake superior about 3:30p.m., when McSor­ley radioed a nearby U.S. Steel Corp. freighter, the Arthur M. Anderson. 
Pounding waves had ripped a deck rail from the Fitzgerald and the ship was tilting severe­

~ ly, McSorley told the Ander­son's skipper, Capt. ] esse Cooper. 
But McSorley also said pumps were draining the hat­

: ches. the Anderson crew later testified before a Coast Guard Marine Board of Investigation that the Fitzgeral did not seem seriously imperiled. 
The 51/degree waters grew wilder as night fall. By 7:10 p.m., with the Fitzgerald 13 miles off Whitefish Point, 

1 waves had built to 25 feet and winds were gusting to 75 mph in what observers termed the worst autumn gale in 35 years. 
When the storm's fury had spent itself 12 hours later all that remained for rescue c~ews were two lifeboats, one raft and an oil slick. 









l\T~~Sc~==~==·=~~~~S========~===================T=ue=s=da=y='=N=o=ve=m=b=e=r=1=1=,1=9=8=o~==pa=g=e~2


by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Rev. John]. Fitzgerald, C.S.C. 
has been appointed acting director of campus ministry at the University ofNotre Dame by Prof. Timothy O'Meara, provost. He succeeds Rev. William A. Toohey, C.S.C., who died October 13 after a brief illness. Fr. Fitzgerald, 3 7, is a native of Chicago wh0 entered the Holy Cross novitiate in 1961, received his bachelor's degree from Notre Dame in 1965, his M.A. in theology from Holy Cross College, Washington, D.C., in 1968 <tnd was ordained in 1969. He taught for seven years at Notre Dame High School in Niles, Ill., before coming to Moreau Seminary in 1976 where he subsequently directed those seminarians engaged in undergraduate studies at Notre Dame and worked part-time in campus ministry. He was named associate director of campus ministry in 1977. -The Observer 
Voting Carter out, Rea~an in 
will cost taxpayers $3 million to complete the White House transition. By adding Jimmy Carter to the list ofex-presidents, taxpayers also gave themselves an extraannual tab ofmore than $300,000 to supporthim. They already pay an equafamount to support Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R Ford. Of the $3 million Congress is expected to appropriate for the change in the executive branch before the end of the year, $2 million is earmarked for President-el~ct Reagan's transition to the Oval Office. The remaining $1 million is shared by Carter and Vice President Walter F. Mondale in their first six months out of office to wind up their official affairs. The air fare or travel costs · of moving Carter back to Georgia and Reagan to Washington from California will be paid out of the $3 million. The same is true fqr their staffs: But Carter, Reagan an_d their staffs will have to pay out of their own pocket to move their household goods and furniture into and out of the nation's capital, according to Rubert Williams, a budget officer with the General Services Administration. -AP 
U.S. Roman Catholic bishops tangled 
briefly yesterday over a proposed pastoral letter on Marxist 
communism. One of them called the document an "ivory 
tower" treatment ignoring worldwide communist oppression. 
The document, centered on whether conflicts between 
Christianity and communism allow any dialogue or cooperation 
between them, concludes that such practical efforts are feasible 
in causes ofworld peace and eradicating global poverty. Bishop Mark ]. Hurley of Santa Rosa, Calif., said the statement "deliberately leaves out violations of human rights all over the world" and fails to express "compassion for people suffering under this great blight." This "seems to leave us in a position of being accused ofliving in an ivory tower," he said. The 10,000 word paper, drawn up over the past two years as a teaching guide to Catholics, was introduced on the opening day of the annual meeting of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops. -AP 
Typhoon Bettyhas left 56 peo~ledeadand58 
others missing in the Philippines. Damage is est1mated at more than $90 million, authorities said after surveying the destruction. President Ferdinand E. Marcos declared four more provinces disaster areas from the storm, one of the most powerful typhoons to hit the Philippines in 10 years. Earlier, seven provinces, including the rice-growing central Luzon Plains, were labeled disaster areas. The Office of Civil Defense said about 774,000 people were in need of relief, including many whose homes were destroyed in the typhoon, which struck last week. The hardest hit areawas Nueva Vizcaya, 8 5 miles north of Manila, where the Red Cross said 25 people were dead and 30 missing. -AP 
Spending a week in iail, former 
Iranian Foreign Minister Sadegh Ghotbzadeh has been re­leased from a Tehran prison by the Islamic revolutionary court, an official of the Iranian embassy in Rome reported yesterday. Revolutionary guards had arrested Ghotbzadeh last week after he was accused of sowing dissension and damaging the Iranian war effort and criticizing the militants who seized the American hostages more than one year ago. The embassy official said he had no other details on Ghotbzadeh's release.-AP 
Fair and seasonable today with highs in the mid 40s. Evening temperatures are expected to dip into the low 30s. Tomorrow will be sunny and cool with highs again in the 40s. -AP 
Inside Tuesday 
Editor explains LaGrotta article 
Edttor's Note: An article that appeared on The Observer feature page last week parodying Frank LaGrotta's columns has caused some mixedfeelings on campus. Features Editor Molly Woulfe explains the controversy surrounding the column. 
This is a different ltmde column. No quoting 

philosophers or poets, no poetical imagery. This is an apology. Last week a Notre Dame student submitted a 
clever and well-written parody of sportswriter Frank LaGrotta's Nov. 3 column to Observer Features. I liked it, other people in the office at the time liked it and I consulted higher authorities because of the topic about the possibility of running it. We decided to print it, adding both an author's and an editor's note emphasizing the article was meant in fun. The piece, "Hey, I'm Dead" ( ... A Parody), appeared on a Features page last Friday. 
Satire entwines criticism with wit, for the 

'llfurpose of encouraging positive change. This article, satirizing LaGrotta's well-known writing style, was hailed by many as very funny and effective. Yet some individuals responded -and are re­sponding-by twisting it into a personal attack on LaGrotta, and on Craig Chval. LaGrotta is being barraged with clippings and harassed by phone calls exulting: "You sure got yours, buddy" -in more colorful language. It's not funny any more. All controversial figures are easy prey for satiriza­tion. LaGrotta is no excep­tion, being t'he Howard Cosell of Notre Dame media as far as notoriety for his style goes (at least he has the consolation of 
knowing his columns are faithfully read). 
I 

"Hey, I'm Dead" was printed for fun, not to belittle LaGrotta and Chval, both long-term, reliable Observer reporters. And the subsequent abuse raining down on them is due to an error of my judgment. I could have consulted them about I running the article, changed the names in it (the parody would still have. been there without pro­viding such obvious ammunition for abuse) or passed the article to Editorials. People might have read it more open-mindedly there. 
But I didn't. 

It's bad enough to set anyone up to public mockery, but I regret even more setting up co­workers, fellow Observertfes. We have an extra­curricular family in the office on the top floor of LaFortune, in the basement OfReginA, and outside of the office. We-have to work together, with 
,\1{J(.xl tr'h''' u J1t~r~vl DNiK" Editor: . ........................ . 
Ryan 'sober' Ver B~rkmo~r. 
IJesti!,n As.risltmf.r: ........... . 
Eileen 'pincher' Murphy · Ron Haynes, Jeanne 'tired' Laboe 1.11}'{)/lt Stoff .. Maura 'tap. tap' Murphy, Diane 'contact' Mazurek 
Dtll' Tet:hnidap . ........... . 
Bruce 'rapier whit' Oakley Ntj.:ht Techmlion ........... Tina Terlaak Nnvs Editor: ....... Pam 'peach' Degnan Ciif>y Edit"r:...... Carol "leaves' Mullaney '/')•jlirts. . .. Suzy 'nice seein' ya' ' Sulentic s'}IJfem.r T~chllidtlll.'. . . ................. . 
· Tim 'oh mv' Debelius 
ND Du)• Editor: ..... Barb '!(ig!(les' Biehl !'lff!t()i;r~pher: . , . ___ ... _,. _.. Helen Odar Gm·st AppearaNces: ............ . 
Lynne 'squished' Daley. Tom 'tummy' Jackman. John 'spitz' McGrath 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer ls8ublished by the students of Notre arne and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the 


Montgomery Elevator Company, Moline, Illinois 61265 
Associated Press. All reproduction 

Montgomery Elevator Co., Limited. Toronto. Ontario M9B3S5
rights are reserved, 

Offices in principal cities of North America 
Molly 
Woulfe 

mutual respect and commitment, to get the paper out five or six times a week. 
At first we were all there because ofour interest in journalism. Then the bonds started forming. People began bumming money for the Huddle from each other, writing sly personals, and tearing hair out together becausea late-breaking storystill wasn't in. 
And when we were sitting around at dawn, still waiting for the story, it became easier to talk about the future, to exchange ideas, laughs, plans. 
Soon we found ourselves meeting outside ofthe office, at bars and parties, to study, or just to talk some more..And not just shop talk. 
Observertfes get enough criticism from friends, other students, and faculty members, from every­thing to Siint Mary's not getting enough coverage 
~­
~­


Observer Notes 
,____,. 
As apublic service, The Observer publishes short press releases, petter known as blurbs, submitted by campus and loca-l organizations. All blurbs must be-turned in no later than 1 
p.m. of the afternoon prior to publication, 
. and they must be typed, double-spaced, or they will not be accepted. Blurbs, unfor­tunately, are not guaranteed publication, and are run only on a space available, priority system as designated by the news editors. We remind that The Observer alone should not be relied upon to publicize events-to ensure some mention of your event, submit a sep<trate-, ~ntry to the On Campus Today section of the paper. 
montgomery® 
will conduct interviews on this campus­TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1980. Career positions in vertical transportation MARKETING/ MANAGEMENT will be discussed with degree candidates in BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION. For more information about Montgomery and our future visit to your 
campus, contact your placement office. 
montgomery® ELEVATORSIESCALATORS POWER WALKS & RAMPS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 

to reporters falling asleep in class (from the all-nighter before). We don't need to stir it up ourselves, inad­vertently or deliberately. 
Sometimes  we're  all  
we've got.  
I  regret  running  the  

parody and apologize to Frank and Craig. Next time, I'll save it for The Absurder. And I hope, 
Frank, people stop calling you at all hours and plas­tering your door with copies of the article. 
And I'm sorry, too, those people are on campus. 





The Observer Tuesday, November 11, 1980 -page 3 
Advisor for 'The Exorcist' 



Nicola speaks on Exorcism 

At St. Mary's 

Officers plan many activities 
By Kathryn Dale and Anne jane Dregalla 

In recent weeks, the Saint Mary's elevators have become crowded with flurries of an­nouncements ofactivities taking place around campus. Saint Mary's class officers have a full slate ofactivities lined up for the fall semester, and are hopeful of high participation among both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students. 
The Senior Class, under Presi­dent Teri Hill, have organized a wide variety of happenings. This Saturday, the seniors will spon­sor a Senior SMC/ND Raquetball and Tennis Tournament. Every­one involved will be able to spend an entire evening not only getting exercise, but also relax­ing in the whirlpool or sauna afterwards. 
The SMC/ND seniors are also sponsorit¥: a "Late Night Skate" at the Rainbow Roller Rink on Nov. 21, and an Air Force Tailgater the next day. Saint Mary's seniors will also be having a class retreat Nov. 23, to be held at the clubhouse fro~ 3-9 p.m., with dinner also being served. Off-campus students are also in­vited to attend, with no charge for the dinner. 
In December, the seniors will be having a booth at the annual 
Blood drive 
•


conttnues this week 
Students from the following halls will give blood in the Student Health Center from 1 
p.m. to 3:00 p.m. on the days mdicated: Breen-Phillips and Grace--Nov­ember 11, 12, 13; Lewis and Cavanaugh--November 18, 19, 20; Zahm and Pangborn--De­cember 2,3,4 
Last year contributions by Notre Dame men and women were part of a record 12,600 units of blood drawn by the Central Blood Bank for use by the sick in Saint)oseph County hospitals. 
Christmas Bazaar, a Christmas mass and coffee, and a co-spon­sored Mistletoe Happy Hour at Gipper's. 
Mary Joan O'Keefe, Junior Class president, is dedicating much ofthis year to developing a good working relationship with Notre Dame women. She feels that "the women at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have a lot in common, and we should be able to bring them togetheJ to get to know each other better." 
Toward this end, the juniors, in planning their traditional Christmas Animal Walk and Lumen Christi Mass, have de­cided to send personal invita­tions to ND junior women. O'Keefe feels th<i.t Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are working together well this year and also mentioned that several happy hours are planned, along with a bonfire and a tailgater for the Air Force game. 
Last Friday, the Sophomore Class held its first "Who Shot JR?" Party, wit.h another one
',J I J ~ 

planned for Dec. 6. Sophomore Class President Erin Flood has 
8·5 Mon.·Sat. Badin Hall University of Notre Dame (Evenings by Appointment) 
UNIVERSITY HAIR STYLISTS 
FULL SERVICE UNISEX CENTER 
~-------HAIR 


CUTTING SPECIALISTS -------llllllllillllrr 
Our master stylists have the up·to·date and eonventional styles lor the men and women. ol the ,Notre Dame and Saint Mary's eampuses. 
Let us take eare ol all your hair eare needs. We also have a lull line ol retail hair produets and are loeated on eampus lor your eonvenienee. 
also initiated several other class activities, including the first in a series of Sunday ND/SMC "Rec Nights" in Angela. They plan an open gym along with organized volleyball and all are encouraged to join. 
The sophomores also have been sponsoring a Speakers Series, with the final speaker being Tony Campbell, this Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Sta­pleton Lounge. Later this month the sophs will be having a Thanksgiving Hayride. In December, they are looking for­ward to the Christmas Bazaar and a very special ABROAD night, where they will have airmail papers and envelopes available for all to write their fellow sophs abroad. 
Freshman Council Chairman Kathleen Murphy says the coun­cil is still in the organizational stage. At the moment they are planning a Freshman Tailgater with hot chocolate and donuts, and a "candy cane to your sweet­beart" bQf:lth at the Christma~ Bazaar. The first freshman news­letter will be released this Friday. 
Standing mmdst the darly deluge ofleaves, thm able Igroundskeepers eradicate the campu.r ofthe botanical
Fall guys 

abundance (Photo by Helen Odar). , 

Mit-luwl Molinelli 
A collection of Michael Molinelli's best comic strips from 1977-1979 is available to you at your home. 
COMING SOON TO NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S BOOKSTORES 
Don't Wait: Order Nowl 
Clip & Mail to: Name ------­1 Juniper Press Address------­1 339 O'Shaugnessy Hall City -------­1 Notre Dame, IN 46556 State -------­
1r---------------------------------------~· 
1 Zip _____ 1 Please send me__copies of
I Mo/(lrt/y at $2.95. Add $.50 per copy1 for shipping. Enclosed is my ,.., 1 check/money order for _ I 
~---------------------------------------· 
219·283·4395 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
By Shetltl Shunick 

Fr. John Nicola, the technical advisor for the movie, The exorcist spoke on exorcism to a completely captivated audience in the library auditorium last night. 
Fr. Nicola spoke ofa "ladder of being" as the basis for a belief in some sort of spiritual intellect, superior to man, whether it be a good or evil intellect. At the bottom ofthis ladder is existence itself. Slightly above this, on the next "rung", there is life, plant life, with the ability of eminet action. Next on the ladder are animals with their power to sense and perceive. Man is above animals because of his ability to think and because he has a spir­itual soul. Then, at the top of the ladder, is God: the perfect being or master of the universe. Ac­cording to Fr. Nicola, between man and God, there is a missing link. In order for the ladder to make sense, some sort of spirit­ual creatures that have an. in­tellect and a will far superior to man, some sort of being which has the power to move an object from place to place, must exist. According to Fr. Nicola, this missing link is in fact angels and fallen angels, devils or demons. Exorcism is used when these evil spiritual powers that are beyond man are at work. 
A priest for the diocese of Chicago, Fr. Nicola has also taught demonology at Catholic University and holds degrees in Philosophy, Classical Languages and Theology. 
Fr. John Nicola spoke in detail to his c;aptive audience of an actual exorcism of a 13 year old boy. This exorcism was the basis for the movie, TJie Exorcist. 
Fr. Nicola said that 3 or 4 exorcisms take place place per year in the United States alone. The are an everyday occurrence in 5/8 of the world. Yet, though the numbers of exorcisms in the 
U.S. are1ow, there seems to bean increased awareness ofthe reality and nature of demonic activity, and ther-eby an inroad toward greater spiritual awareness. Fr. Nicola explained to the crowd that even though the industri­alized western world feels sorry for the "underdeveloped" eastern world, the people of the eastern world feel even more sorry for us because we have lost sight of real spiritual existence. 

The Observer Tuesday, November 11, 1980-page4 

Five experts search for prits in Atlanta killlngs 
ATLANTA (AP)-Five sleuths latest victim, 9-year-old Aaron 
known for having solved mur-Jackson, was buried nearby. His ders in their own cities con-body was found Nov. 2, a day verged on Atlanta on Monday to after he disappeared. Police said begin helping local officials find he was suffocated. the killer, or killers, responsible The five homicide investiga­for the deaths or disappearances tors joining the inquiry have each 
· of 15 black children. helped break major murder cases The five-including a detec-in their home cities. 
, tive who came out ofretirement Pierce Brooks, who retired to join the hunt here-were ar-after 29 years ofpolice work, was riving from New York, Los captain of the investigation clivi­Angeles, Oakland, Detroit and sion in Los Angeles that cracked Stamford, Conn. the "Onion Field" murders, later 
Meanwhile, in New Jersey, a the subject of Joseph 
·self-proclaimed psychic who Wambaugh's book of the same spent four days in Atlanta aiding name. investigators predicted a major Lt. George Myer, commander 
1 break in the case could occur of the major case investigative 'Wednesday. division in Stamford, has solved "Now I could be off 24 hours several multi-murder cases in his either way, said Dorothy 21 years of police work, inclu­
Remcmher Smior year-High school? One ofthe many campm to11rs introduces college prospectives to Notre' Dame, 
Allison of Nutley, N.J., "but I'm ding_the so-called "Parkway Bra 
l11dialltl (Photo by Helen Odar).. 

expecting some of the first an-Murders," the slayings of seven swers in this case on the 12th." black women. She predicted the possible arrest Charlie Nanton was sent from '
Another Saturn revelation 
~of "orl€'8'f''the two, and maybe New York City, where he helped three killers, who aren't acting solve in 1979 the murders of together." three elderly victims known as
Voyager I discovers gaseous cloud 
Over 900 volunteers joined a the "Lower East Side Killings." search of a southeast Atlanta-Lt. Gil Hill of Detroit's homi­
PASADENA, (AP)­Calif. what was expected." Titan late Tuesday on its way to n~ighborhood during the week-. cide_ squad solved_ sever~! multi­
Voyager I, speeding to its ren­Scientists had anticipated a Wednesday's close pass by the end the fourth such hunt in as slaymg cases, mcludmg the dezvous with Saturn's myster­very narrow ring o.f gas mostly ringed planet itself. ma~y weeks, but turned up no "Browning G:a?g Murders"­ious moon Titan, gave scientists restricted to the orbit of Titan, The far-ranging spaceship, clues to the killings of 11 chi!-15 separate bl~mgs. _ vet another surprise Monday rathe-r than the broader cloud, 
within 2 million miles ofSaturn's dren and the disappearance of Sgt. AI Sm1th of Oakland with the discovery of a huge Sandel said. churning yellow cloud tops four others over the last 16 worked on the Symbionesecloud of hydrogen gas sur­"This means some mechan­Monday, was for the first time months. Liberation Army killings and last 
rounding the ringed planet. ism which we don't know, is 
revealing details on some of As the searchers went through year had 100 percent clearance The hydrogen cloud forms a op~rating t~ spread the hydro­Saturn's flock of 15 known brush and weeds Saturday, the of cases assigned.
ring several hundred thousand gen over a much larger region of moons. miles thick around the planet, space," he said. Also yesterday, a Voyager sci­William Sandel ofthe University entist theorized that Saturn's of Southern California said at a famous glimmering rings might 
• • . LaUJsuit 
news conference. He said the 'The classical contain dozens of moon-like 
hydrogen apparently leaks atom objects that cause their puzzling by atom from Titan's bizarre at-complexity. (continued from page I} mosphere, which seems to be theories are going to Instead of the traditionally 
conservative social climates. 
mostly methane, or natural gas. counted six broad rings, Voyager Last spring, Barnhill & Associates decided to initiate the lawsuit as "The presence of hydrogen in d is finding hundreds of small but one class action suit rather than individual lawsuits. At that time, 130 the atmosphere of Saturn has have to be modifie ' distinct ringlets of frozen debris women claimed they had been discriminated against. When thebeen known for some time, but reaching out from the planet. 
attorneys decided to go the class action route, 66 of the womenwe didn't know how this hy-Torrence Johnson said the decided to stick to their complaints and take the University to court.
drogen was distributed," he said. Scientists expect to learn more unsuspected structure means Barnhill said last spring he was encouraged that 66 women "opted"The shape ... we actually saw · about the hydrogen cloud as "the classical theories (that ex­in" the suit rather than disappointed that 64 "opted out." He said at' doesn't conform well at all to Voyager sails to 2,500 miles of plain the rings) are going to have that time that the women who pulled out of the suit believed their I to be modified." · status at the University might be jeopardized if they went to court.
~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::'::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!::::::::::::::::::~ 
He said the recently discov­

Court is scheduled to convene at 10 a.m. on the 24th-if no
ered and still-unnamed 15th

~~~l ·Qualit;y ~~l~ settlement is reached prior to that date. 
mo-on ofSaturn seems to control 
the outer edge of the most bril­

:~lj. Typing Service -:jll 
liant ring~ and "we'll be looking DitJ.lomats
for small satellites (from about five to 50 miles in .4ameter.)qur ' ' ' within the rings themselves. It --------------t-in__e_s_t_o-=:the State Department
1 

seems possible hundreds of , (continued from page I} for further consultations with bodies of maJ·c;>r size could be in A · ff· · 1
,,,,,I -other four; including Deputy. mencan o !Cia s.





I,,, ,,,,,,,:~=;::~~~~::,,, 
there.' 

Treasury Secretary Robert 
Voyager I, which blasted c;>ff in Carswell, are willing to meet Informed sources said the September, 1977, from Cape face-to-face with Iranian author­Algerian government has as­)[~~ MICHlAX A COLLEGE Of COMMIBCE ~i~[ Canaveral, Fla., has already ren­. ities, direct contact is considered sured both parties of its willing­
dezvoused withJupiter. After its highly unlikely. ness' to continue acting as 
encounter with Saturn, it will 
intermediary as long as neces­Iranian officials have said the

move outof the solar system and 
sary, and is prepared to offer aninto deep space. Voyager II is due last ofthe hostages would only be Algerian aircraft to fly thereleased when Iran is satisfied

I ,;;::~:~·~~:;;, I
to pass by Saturn next August that all the conditions have been hostages out of Iran if and when 
and will continue toward a ren­
the Iranians are ready to release

i::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::llll dezvous with Uranus in 1986. fulfilled. The State Department 
them.

1 ' has described a possible piece­
......................~ meal release of the hostages as 
Algeria was expected to relay

1 . f" 1 unacceptable. the American reply to Iran within
) -I need pnn 1ng 1 Qualified sources described hours.
I · 1 the reply Christopher handed to I in a hurry? I Beny:ahia as "long, detailed and 
The U.S. Embassy spokesmanI I complex." 

said it was not immediately clear 1 Christopher went to when Christopher would return
1100 -llXl 7 pOSferS Algiers 
I 
personally to confer with 
to Washington.II Only $l O.OO II Benyahia "because it is better 
that those involved fully under­1 stand our position," the sources The State Department said 
I• ~ · 03 N. Main added. · Christopher was accompanied to I Algerian officials said Algeria's Algiers by Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern and South
f: I
···1 ·'r· South Bend I only interest was to ad itate a ld s d
-1 Asian Affairs Haro aun ers;
mutually acceptable so ution to · · R dl Deputy Treasury Secretary
I I the long hostage cns1s. e 1a ll S D 
I 289-6977 Malek, Algeria's ambassador in Robert Carswe ; tate epart­1 • ffh I Washington, delivered the for-mentLegalOfficerRobertOwenthe. W.IZ 0 . e I mal text of the Iranian condi-and Arnold L. Raphe!, a special 
2/$1.00 
assistant to Secretary of State

tions to Christopher ear1y 1ast
ALL WEEK LONG!! 
11Printing biZ I ....-......-.............aw __ E_d_mu_n_d_s_._Mu_s_k_ie_._________
.u.u ~~e:~:k_:an:d~l:a~te:r~re~t~u_r_n_ed t_h_r_e_e__ __ __ 


The Observer 
Tuesday, November 11, 1980 -.page 5 
The Blarney Stone? 


Reagan sprouts from Irish roots 

By Ed Blanche Associated Pre.r.r Wrrter 
Ronald Reagan's election cli­maxes a rags-to-eminence saga that began when his great­grandfather left a stone shanty in Ireland in the potato famine of the 1840s, British and Irish genealogists said Monday. Fur­ther back, they said, there is royal blood. 
Reagan is descended from Brian Boru, an 11th century high king of all Ireland and the Emerald Isle's first national he­ro, according to experts from De brett's research organization of London and Hibernian Re­search based in Dublin. 
Boru ironically died at the hour of his greatest triumph, defeating Viking invaders at Clontarf near Dublin in 1014. That victory ended the pillaging Norsemen's influence in Ireland. 
A De brett's spokesman said a branch of Reagan's family tree goes back to a nephew of Boru who belonged to the Regans (the way the name was spelled then) of Munster, one of Ireland's ancient provinces. 
The investigators said the Reagan family, or Regan and O'Regan in the traditional Irish spelling, lef( County Tipperary, 


Justice related cources 
Theology 
340 Corporate Conscience 1Tf3 Mertensotto/ Heppen (for Business Majors only) A reflection on the Christian moral meaning of corporate action and purpose within business organizations. The objective is to develop a comprehensive corporate ethic which deals with the self-interest of the organization, moral responsibilities, and a social vision for a more human world. 
342 Christian Ethics 2TT4 Hauerwas This course is intended as an introduction to the discipline of Christian ethics. It begins with a brief studr of the ] ewish and Christian scriptures. t then examines four major problem areas: biomedical ethics, abortion, sexuality and war. 
344 Medical Ethics 10TT12 and llMWF Mertensotto (for Pre-Med Majors only--see Fr. Walter's secretary for registration) A discussion of ethical problems in the medical profession in the li8ht of natural law and Christian moral principles. 
347 War-Peace-Revolution 1TT3 Yoder Classical typologies illustrated from the Cru­sades, just-war stories and pacifists; renewal of thought since 1940; theologies of revolution; models of responsible withdrawal. 
350 Christians and the Third World 101J'12 Hommes Christia~ty as a world religion, the Church as world Cnurch encompassing the globe. Since WW II national independence and growing cultural autonomy in Third World nations have led to new vitality in non-western Christianity. This course will study the struggles of Christians in the Third World to articulate their faith in theologies, forms of worship and approaches to service appropriate to their cultural environment. 
3 7 3 Theology and Community Service 7TU10 

McNeill (this is a check-marked course--register in 111-B Mem. Lib.) This interdisciplinary c~urse will be; taug~t by Don McNeill C.S.C. to collaboration wtth a teaching tea~ (Sr. Judith Ann Beattie, C.S,.C.; Fr. Joseph Carey, C.S.C.; Sr. Verene Gtrm· scheid, O.S.F., etc). The purpose of the course is to explore questions .about ~e ~elationship of theology and commumty servtce to contempor· ary society in the context of a search for insight and understanding into personal experiences while visiting the elderly iQ nursing homes. Students have an opportunity to develop a comprehensive understanding and articulation of ~heology in relati~nship r.o the dyn~mics of 
carmg and compassiOn, agmg, suffermg and dying. 
379 Reflections on Service McNeill/ Girmscheid .. " This one credit course is for students involved in volunteer ·service activities (e.g. Logan, tutoring, Big Grothers/Sisters, etc) who want to reflect on their experiences from different p~rspectives (theology, psychology, etc.) More mformation is available at the Center for Experential Learning, 1110 Mem. Lib., ext. 2788. ApRropriate time for the seminar, which lasts the fl.rst nine weeks of the semester, will be arranged wi~h the gi!Oup. 
381 War/Law/Ethics 10TT12 Yoder An interdisciplinary course (ROTC, Law, Philo· sophy 249, Theolo~y) concerns the morality and legality of war; htstory of just-war theory and ! pacifism; international conventions of "crimes 1 of war''; limits of obedience; war crimes and trials; U.S. military policy; rights of non-comba­tants, prisoners, neutrals. Recommended fot ROTC students. 
PHILOSOPHY 
243 Moral Problems 1TT3 and 2TT4 Wachs· berg The course seeks to explore the nature the nature of morality through the consideration of discrimination (racial, sexual, compensatory, species); obligations to the poor and to future ~enerations; population policy; and paternal· 
ISm. 
245 Medical Ethics IOMWF Volbrecht An exploration, from thefoint of view of ethical theory, of a number o ethical problems in contemporary biomedicine. Topics to be includ­ed are: abortion, infanticide and euthanasia, the doctor-patient relationship and paternalism, allocation of scare medical resources, the right to health care, and informed consent and human experimentation. 
246 Ethics and Business 911'11 and lOTT12 Garcia An examination of the ways in which moral theory can be brought co bear on business institutions, and of moral pr~b~ems th~t arise in the context of corporate dectston-making. 
where they had existed close to the poverty line, after the G re~t Famine of the 1840s. 
The search centered on par­ish records in Ireland and grave­stones in County Tipperary cemeteries. These showed that Reagan's great-grandfather, Michael O'Regan, left the im­poverished village of Doolis between 1845 and 1848 and went to England looking for work. 
The family home was a rough, one-story stone , cottage. Debrett's genealogical re­searcher, Hugh Pesketh, said Michael O'Regan probably was the only member of the family who could read or write. 

River City Records Welcomes an evening with 
HARRY CHAPIN 
Tuesday, December 9 • 8:00 p.m. Morris Civic Auditroium • South Bend 
Tickets: $9.50/$8.50 Reserved Tickets on sale Wednesday, Nov. 12, at 
10:00 a.m. at River City Records, 50970 
U.S. 31 North, ONLY! 
Limit 10 tickets per person! Call 277-4242 for further information! 
River City Records & Jam Productions Present 

Friday, November 14 e 8:00 p.m. Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets: $9.00/$8.00 all seats reserved. Good seats still available at the ACC Box Office and River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North-3 miles north of campus 

..........·.... largest :;et~ectton . . · apes and Lowest Prices! Why pay more at the malls? 


'$1.00 OFFI 
any regular album or tape purchase with this coupon. Limit 1 per person. Expires 
· 1Nov. 30, 1980 


Last night Student Senate candidates were briefed by Election Commis.rioner Tom Koegel, on the rttlesfor the upcoming campaign (Photo by Helen Odar). 
~how!~:!~!uts!C/Jt t t Executive Staff t t Applications Due Today t f Student Government Office t ..._.~~~~~~~~~~~.._..~~~~t
' 
Tuesday, November 11, 1980-page 6 
OD'd on Space Invaders 


Fanatics gather for tourney 
New York (AP)-For two hours one day, Bill Heineman held off the alien invaders with his laser cannons, vaporizing them before they could land on Earth and destroy civilization as we know it. 
"Fweep, fweep, fweep,"went the lasers. "Krch, krch, krch," went the doomed invaders, in­sidious and persistent. 
After two hours, Heineman ended his defense. The invaders were still coming, but he had accomplished his goal: he was winner of the national finals of the Space Invaders computer video game. 
In Space Invaders, an army of aliens appears on a television screen, and it is up to the player to kill them off before they land on Earth or bomb the player's laser. After each army is dis­pensed with, another appears. 
William F. Grubb, vice presi­dent of Warner Communica­tion's Electronic Entertainment Division, which make Space Invaders, said the popularity of the game is "incredible." 
"We're in the age of electron­ics, and after 'Star Wars,' space became a very popular theme,'' he said. 
Grubb said the company re­ceived letters from fans, dis­closing their high scores and asking about others' triumphs. The company set up a contest to find a champion. 
A thousand enthusiasts com­peted at regional contests in San Jose, Calif., Los Angeles, Dallas-Fort Worth, and Chicago. And Saturday, 4,000 people took part in the New York competition. 

On Monday, five finalists fought it out before relatives, reporters, friends and Warner officials. 
First to go was Steve Marmel, 15, of Chicago, who allowed an invader to land after he had accumulated 28,000 points. 
The other four survived until contest organizers called a halt two hours later. 
The winners were announced in Miss America fashion-the last place finisher, Marmel, named tirst. Then there was Robert Merek, 16, of Dallas, with 108,400 points; Frank Tatro, 14, of Yorktown Heights, N.Y., 133,300 points; Hing Ng, 16, of San Francisco, 153,300 points. 
At last, came the top finisher, Heineman, of Whittier, Calif., with 165,200 points. 
The points are computed by the number of invaders and asteroids shot down during the game. 
Heineman, a high school se­nior who wants to be a computer programmer, won· a $2,500 com­puter game for his efforts. 

!cn!U:~i~~· ~a~h~~·:U!latQ~··~ 
,t "8 in Mer. S;ud.i•$\ Mltt 1 t.t. ., M.~. 
l**t:hle~m suet CQr.e J:l.l~·.M:~· ~ t·+.e.~~)~~t.. t!: in ~J. dUl<!ipli.ne& for ~:e~l~~\ ~a~· fi:a l!!$.·· · ··· · 

Editorials  Tuesday, November 11, 1980 -.page 7  
P.O.BoxQ  ,.  
a holier-than-thou attitude, or even "growing apprehension that  insightfully points out that fans 

SMC senior 
council says no 
to death march 
Dear Editor, 
The idea of tradition not only
Iappears to be inevitably linked with the concept of university life itself, but is viewed as the ultimate stamp of approval upon any event with which it is associated. It must be recognized, however, that tradition­al meaning and contemporary reality do not always coincide. The 21 to 2 decision by th~ Saint Mary's College Senior Class Council not to co-sponsor the annual Senior Death March was made not in the judgment of the event itself, but in acknowledge­ment ofits detrimental effects upon the community at large. As stated by OC commissioner Sherri McGonigle, the emphasis on improving relations with our South Bend neighbors will hardly be helped by throwing trash in their yards and creating loud distur­bances in their neighborhoods. The justifiable student complaint against the concentration of South Bend police on under-age drinking rather than more serious crimes will not be strengthened by the acts of overly "boisterous" students. Indeed. the resentment ofnortheast otT-campus students themselves against the damage caused by weekend rampages in their area should be indicative of the impor­tance of neighborhood relations to those who live there. Another major consideration in the council's decision. voiced by both SBP Kathleen Sweeney and Senior Class President Teri Hill. involves the SMC campaign to increase awareness of responsible dri:-~king. Although a somewhat ambiguous term, the idea behind responsible drinking is both clear and simple: It is possible to enjoy drinking without getting drunk. College surveys have revealed a serious drinking problem on both campuses. and perhaps it is time to realize that a good time is not contingent upon putting oneself into a complete state ofinebriation. It must be emphasized that the Senior Council is not trying to take 
Doonesbury 
SO 'rVIJR lH£515/N FOR Mll-­"THE MtJ.Jil4l MJf(J5/(£" UONS OF 
UPSCALE Alr"8JCAN5, IT ALJ?E417f 
/5, MA/?.1<.
I 

discourage participation in the Death March. We merely wish to make students aware that the traditional idea of the event em­phasizes a potential for social enjoyment rather than a challenge to see if one can remain standing until the end. 
A complete lack of pressure from administration only increased the Council's awareness that the responsibility of our choice was to be based upon our own perceptions ofwhat would be most beneficial to the students. The assurance that the Council would be supported regardless of its decision serves to strengthen the seriousness with which our intent should be viewed. 
In essence, the SMC Senior Class Council is not denying the positive social aspects ofthe Senior Death March. rather, we are saying: "Enjoy yourselves and others. but not to the detriment 0f the community that surrounds you. 
Jill De La Hunt 
Editor's 11ote: Jill De La Hunt is 1 member of the SMC senior :ou11cil. 
Nobel laureate's 
physics speech
• 
overlooked 
Dear Editor, 

On Friday, October 31. Dr. Sheldon Glashow, Higgins profes­sor of physics at Harvard Univer­sity. visited the Notre Dame campus. Dr. Glashow, a Nobel laureate ( 1979), is world-renowned for his contributions to our under­standing of the basic structure of the universe. He also has a well­deserved reputation as an outstand­ing speaker who is able to explain some of the more abstruse notions of theoretical physics in an ac­cessible and entertaining manner. 
His public lecture went un­reported in The Obserl'er, and was even excluded from the daily calendar of events. 
At an afternoon press conference, Dr. Glashow told Gail Hinchion of the South Bend Tribune of his 
ACTU4LLY, rrs A ~y HEA/...7HY f}e(CL/JPM&Nr P£lJPtE NO LO/VGCR JU06C 'fW 8YIUI-W 'tf)() aJ. llLJ_ 
71-f/VREALLY MA~5 WAY 15 a/1-#T '/()(/ PAIP FOR YOVI?. IKJfJSf3 ANPM-flfr !T5 IUOR.TH N(}()). 
\ 
America's bored attitude about the who don't support their coach aren' 
-Philly fan 

sciences is choking the potential really fans at all. Wow! I wonder that has won us so many Nobel where he went to college?
on Olval's

prizes ... Today there seems to be a Craig Chval must be a terrific certain pride about scientific il­guy to have such insights into literacy." Does this scathing in­professionalism game which he probably didn't dictment apply to the Notre Dame even attend. But what do I know? community? Apparently so... The -I'm only from Philadelphia.
Dear Editor 

editors of The Observer did not Doug Christian
In his brilliant sports pag.e editorial, "Some people are never Jenkintown, PA satisfied (October 16)," Craig Chval has succeeded in combining the objectivity ofan enraged Frank Observer writers LaGrotta and the professionalism of an intoxicated Howard Cosell, the result being one ofChval's most 
question paper's 
beautifully memorable pieces to date. Ifanyone on this fine sports­minded campus thinks that Craig 
editorial policies 
does not merit his rightful place at the top of the list of insightful Dear Editor, sportswriters, then he should refer We thought we wrote for a news­to the article and see just what kind. paper. It was called The Observer, of future Craig has in sports jour­and it served the Notre Dame/St. nalism. There are analyses and Mary's community. But after obser­



insights in his article which must be ving the editorial policy of features so brilliantly conceived and clever­editor Molly Woulfe, editor-in-chic ly articulated that the average Paul Mullaney and writer Ken sports fan should study the article Klingen in last Friday's edition, we extensively and perhaps discuss it really wonder just why we are in a small group seminar to fully bothering to work for this non­understand this brilliance. newspaper. The editors in question 
. Craig surely should publish his certainly do not seem to bother t Chvalisrris in national newspapers I think before they act. where they will be more appreciated. The Obsen•er's editorial policy I have heard that the National is much like a disjoint system o Enquirer or even the Midnight . state governments. A department Star otTer young sportswriters of ; does whatever it pleases for its own his caliber the opportunity to fully purpose --not for a common goal. express themselves. And it must be In this instance, we cite the features remembered that these papers enter department. The parody of an millions ofhouseholds every single ·accurate and well-written sports week. If this article is indicative of column by Frank LaGrotta("Hey! what this young sportswriter can We're No. I," Nov. 3) is the last accomplish, it boggles the mind to straw. 
think what will be produced in the When a newspaper resorts to future when he really comes into cheap shots and backstabs toward his own. its own writers, it brings its own even bother to send a reporter to Just imagine the scene in Phila­level of journalistic competencethe press conference. We can only delphia which Craig so vividly into serious question. The Obs~rverhope that they learn from this described. Thousands and thou­has no business turning a critique ofunfortunate performance. 
sands of fans booing a ballclub LaGrotta and Craig Chval into a which they paid up to thirty dollars half-page feature. The paper treats
James J. Kalata 

to see. This is atrocious behavior. this as lightly as it would a movie
Associate Professor of Physics 

If I had the ability to write prose review. The Chicago Tribune does like Chval, I too would have made not refer to David Israel and Bob
Walter C. Miller 

the immediate conclusion that these Verdi as a''repugnant sportswriting 
Chairman, Department ofPhysics 

fans are "the scum of the earth." duo" simply because its readers Imagine that, booing when your disagree with or dislike them. The club is playing badly and is four Observer, however. has blazed Editor's Note: Due to academic runs down after two and a half new trails in editorial policy with 
commitments Anthonv Walton's innings. And to think that these this article by Klingen. 
treekZI' column will appear later in 1 "fans" would boo their exciting It is garbage journalism and it is 
the ll'eek. coach with a good record. Craig malicious. The two notes at the 
story's conclusion heighten the 
Garry Trudeau 
fr5RE'ALLY Ql/ITC A PHENOMe­NON AT0/NN&R PA/?Jl&5 ALl­i'"OR SURE. AROUNlJ lH& {J)(Jtmzy, STVPI£5 7HtMARX&T SHOW7HJ1J71-1e P~ 
FOR G(X}() CONOO 15
W8R/CANT THf313 OAY5 15 NO L.ON6CR [J(X)l£ OR 6RASS ­
VERY TIGHT IT'S !lEAL-51'1-fTE! "-I 

vicious attitude of the article and are editorials in themselves. The story itself as a feature and The Observer's apparent light-hearted attitude toward it are both inex­cusable. 
We do not defend tl'hat LaGrotta orChval write. We strongly defend. however, the opportunity to write without their own newspaper maliciously attacking them. 
Brian Beglane 
Bill Marquard 
Gw:1• Grassey 

Editor's note: Beglane, Grqssey and Marquard are members o The Observer's sports staff. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief .......... Paul Mullaney Sports Editor ............ Beth Huffman 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor . ............ Mark Rust Features Editor ........... Molly Woulfe The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Editorials Editor ......... Mike Onufrak Photo Editor .............. .John Macor 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. It does not necessarily 
Senior Copy Editor .. ....... Lynne Daley .

reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reponed Business Manager .....•... Greg Hedgea
Executive News Editor .... Tom Jackman

as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a Co11trol/er .....-...............Jim Rudd News Editor .............. Pam Degnan
majority of the Editorial Board. _Com~entaries, opinions, and letters are th~ views Advertising Manager . ......... Mark Ellis' of their authors. Column s~;>ace ts avatlable to all members of the communtty, and SMC Executive Editor .... Margie Brassil Circulation Ma11ager ....... Beth Hackett the free expression of varytng opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC News Editor •. ....... Mary Leavitt Production AJanager ......John McGra'th 








Features 
Tuesday, November 11, 1980-page 8 

Lost • • • or Found 
The other day I bought and read Bill Toohey's new book, Life after Birth. I had to read it. It's an excellent state­ment. Everybody should read it. 
I did not know the man. I never read anything he wrote before. I only heard one ef his homilies. I had only a brief conversation with him in his room ­when he welcomed me to Flanner. I found him to be a wfarm and·genuine person. The day befor,e he was strikenI, saw him sitting in the sun-that's the way I want to remember him. 
Bill's death saddened me. The grief of his friends and close associates during his illness, through his death, and the uninhibited tears of young people at his funeral touched me deeply. It was a painful touch because I was outside the circle ofhis friends and one who had not shared as much ofhim as those who cried. I wanted to know him. I wanted to share his gift. 1had tc read his book. 
inc 
Tuesday's election was astonish­ing. Most political observers had expected the Presidential race to be a heated and close one, and many were prepared to endure a grueling marathon vigil in front of the TV awaiting Uncle Walter Cronkite's declaration of the winner. But by 
8:30 the contest was over. Jimmy Carter graciously conceded and John Anderson failed to answer the bell after round ten. So what happened? Why rhe landslide? 
I posed those questions to several experts and ~ot several explana­tions. , Dr. · Htram Glitch of the 
. Electoral Studies Institute and Grill answered: 
Mr. Reagan was definitely heljJed(Jy 

the .large turn-out .of~the ruile .4nthii!l:.,~._.llff,f.e~m.Pa,rei:!Jhts to thiAkP$1(1ink:''
uncivt1 voters. He won over the rude vote when he answered a heckler before the election with a heart'Cf·f!/1 
"Oh, Sh1# up!" Arlri. of c.our.s.e .. hi.·s.. 
behavior towanls Mr.. Carter"' the. 
tlebate dirin 't hurl eitber; ·· · 
This may m.ty not be the whgle story. The Reagan win was due to large turn-out of the •''Clos~!. · 

Prophets are not people who tell fortunes. They are not old and ven­erable and not necessarily the wisest men on Earth. They are those who dream dreams and see visions. They are those absorbed in the chaos of Now who somehow, by the Spirit of God which is in them, passionately seek the threads of reconcilliation and hand them on to nimbler fingers that can tie them together and make the fabric of Life whole where it is torn. But, most of all, Prophets are those who have incredible courage and daring which turned right side out is simple humble­ness" I live now, not I, but Christ lives ... " I think Bill Toohey was a Prophet. 
That is what I discovered about the man in reading his book. I have no reason to believe that his others would tell me a different story. I cannot distrust what I saw and felt as the University and Saint Mary's reverently said goodbye to him. It was the peo~ pie's celebration of the life of a 
support. According to Janet Carp of the Mishawaka Zoolosical Gardens even animals were acttvely support~ ing Reagan. 
0/ course, we always find ; lot o/enthusiasm for the GOP from the elephant section but this year there was considerahle pro-Reagan senti· ment from all th.r,.. other animafs--parc ticularly the ape house. I belteve the endorsement · of Reagan by his former running-mate, Bonzo, had a lot to do with it.. 
Advandng another the~ry is P. Alan Piper, consultant for De Sade Enterpnses. ··"'···. 
Thts tide of Republicanism is obvi­. 0 1f4Y a case p/ma,.ss hysterifl~ Sam./! 
·· ·· mtjirtftWn tnlo t~e sea, bu!Pd sa:~ thts .ts worse. Ridents don t have nuclear . . . ·.. 
blidtns''· according to ·HU:~ert },,.,...,,,:ni.+:,.afJWf#'VJ 
blower,. professor at Locker College. 
We've found that large numbers of Reagan votes came from ''closet Repubficans''--people who may sup~ port the Republicans but who woU/ri never admit it to anyone unless they were in a closet or wardrobe. Apparently these poor souls became confused anri1 thinking the voting booth was their closet at home, 
registered a Republican vote. 
But more than just humans were caught up in this wave of Reagan 

are ...v:r#~JOUTi'ff_"~ Ronnie's locks. ·guess because so man:~ customij"s came in lor· a shampoo and c#t before the election and so many. hair stylist$ anti barbers were raving about Reagan, naturally voters were persuaded. 
The most plausible explanation for Reagan's landslide victory ;; comes from gem-physicist Dean K. Wizzeau of the Bermudian Springs Academy of Science. 
We fount/ on election day there was an .enormr,fus amount of sunspot actibity··wilrl anti strange activity.This turbulence set up a sort of' magnettl;-gravitational field through­out all American voting places•. For someJ.et llnexplainetl,ret:~s()""' thjs cause all coinsflipperi in the voting booth to lanri Republican stile up. Astonishing. J , ~;; 
·;:;;#:?.~== 

Prophet, whatever he means to them, and people's faith-instinct is seldom wrong. 
''Prophets . . . are those 
who dream dreams and see visions . . . I think Bill 
Toohey was a prophet." 
Bill's book seems to me to represent the themes of his life. From what I've heard ofhis life and work, they seem to come together with great power and clarity in this final statement. It is not because his ideas are new or that what he says has not been said before that gives it power. Rather, it is that he has struggled and believed it first and then spoken what he knows. Likt= the great Master he tells us where he's been and where he's going and challenges us to follow. He is his message, and his book is a book on life. 
But now I wonder if, in the afterglow ofsuch a gifted life. this University will only mourn what it thinks it has lost. Will sad memory be its only response to the passionate cry of its prophet, which comes now from the Holy City to which we prayerfully commended him? Or will this University have an equal courage to give him a true Christian anamnesis-that is, to re­member his dream, accept his vision, and give his words life in its own here and now, and for the future? 
If the University doesn't, it will have lost his presence-it will have good reason to mourn. But if it does, it will have found a new light and the "dis­covery of fire for the second time" in Bill Toohey's life which was consumed trying" to harness for God the energies of hope." Art King, OMI, is a chaplain in Planner Hall. 

Art King, OMI 

Molarity On Wheels 
Molartfy: On The Road To Selling Out, a collection of Observer cartoonist Mike Molinelli's popular comic strips, will be on sale this Thursday in the Notre Dame bookstore. 1200 copies of the book have been published by Juniper Press, the nation's only independent student publishing company. 
The company is run by students in Associate Prof. Elizabeth Christman's book publishing class. The Press is four years old, and this will be the fifth, and largest to date, publication. 
Molinelli, a fourth-year architecture 
student, was asked to submit a col­lection of cartoons for the class' con­sideration last summer. He delivered a selection in September, and the class approved it over other student manu­scripts submitted. The book features cartoon strips from Molinelli's first two years cartooning for The Observer. 
Molinelli acknowledges that "it was kind ofhard" for him to select which of the two hundred-odd cartoons in his portfolio to print. He finally "picked 
ON THE ROAD 
TO SELLING OUT 
out the funny ones, and after picking out those five, chose the ones crucial in introducing the characters, then the ones that got the biggest response." 
The book features Molarity's hero. Jim Mole, "the proverbial anti-hero whimp," and his roommates, Chuck Mason ("my link with the absurd"), Mitch ("the quintessential Notre Dame male"), and the suave Dion ("Dion is Dion, and that's enough for him"). Brenda and Cheryl will also appear. 
The cartoons themselves begin with the first Molarity strip to appear in The Observer, and cover a variety of topics, from Saint Mary's parietals system to parties and the housing lottery. 
The price of the book is $2.95. Molinelli will be available to autograph copies at an autograph party on Thursday, from 3 to 5 p.m. in La Fortune's Rathskeller. 


Molly Woulfe 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ The~==~================================= 



To"da~===========T=u=e=sd=a=y,=N=o=v=e=m=b=er=11=,=1=98=0=-=p=age==·' 

Campus 
• 2:45 p.m. -"the arab­israeli conflict today," avi granot, natl. director of the institute of students and faculty on israel, memorial library lounge. 
• 4: 30 p.m. -lecture, "discerning Coccidia: dynam­ics ofintracellular parasitism," dr. bill chobotar, galvin auditorium, room 278. 
• 7, 9, 11 p.m.-movie, "high anxiety," engineering auditorium, $1, sponsored by alpha phi omega. 
• 
7: 30 p.m. _., meeting, ladies of notre dame, library auditorium. 

• 
8 p.m. -concert, jorge bolet, piano, o'laughlin auditorium (smc). 


• 8: 30 p.m. -meeting, management dub, 120 hayes healy. _ 

Irish club meeting 
The ND-SMC Irish Club will hold an organizational meeting Wednesday evening at 7p.m. in LaFortune Ballroom. Future ac­tivities, speakers, musicians, and parties will be discussed. Any interested student or faculty member is welcome and atten­dcnce is appreciated. If you have any qyestions calljohn at 3482 or Nancy at 41-5411. 
Evaluation booklets 
The Student Government's Course Evaluation booklets are now available. Any students in­
terested  in  obtaining  a  copy  
may  do  so  at  the  Registrar's  
Office,  the  Student  Govern­ 

ment Offices on the s,econd floor of LaFortune Student Center, or Room "101 O'Shaughnessy. 
Piano virtuoso to perform 
The dazzling piano virtuoso 

1 Jorge Bolet will perform in concert Tuesday in O'Laughlin Auditorium of Saint Mary's College at H p.m. Holet's program for the even­ing will inclu-lc Mendelssohn's "Songs With· ut Words," Opus 19; Schum .nn's "Carnaval," Opus 9; Ch•1pin's "Sonata in B flat minor," Opus 35; and "Valse Impromptu" and "Hungarian Rhapsody No. 12" bv Liszt. 
Tickets for the concert, which is sponsored by the Performing Arts Series at Saint Mary's, are $4 for the general public and $2 for students. For reservations con­tact Saint Mary's Ticket Office at 284-4176. 
Skiers meet tonight 
The ski team will meet tonight in Room IC of LaFortune at 7:30p.m. Any­one who plans on going to Vermont mu~t bring their $50 deposit. Information about the trip will be given. 
Molarity 
EVEF<YTHIAJC. 15 
GETTING OLJT or: HAND 
I 'PON'T KNOW IF I 
CAN Go ON TH£ 
~RI': 15 . 61£Tn1VG. To 
8E 
I lt/ Ill1 ( 1 l l1 t. I I

ALL RIG~T, ~OlJ GUVS, 
\II[J I \ll(l,lflt

WHAT HAPPENED WHEN 
L(OU WENT INiO TOWN ? 
' I t 'I I ' ' ROOT BEERS 
\ t ll1 l t,{J \ I I l I 1 l I I 

C) 1880 United Feature S·tndlcate ll'c /0 -ZB 
~~~--------------~ 


The Daily Crossword 

10/21/80

© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Student Legal Services 
BASEMENT NOTRE DAME 
...__ LAW SCHOOL ______, LEGAL AID AND DEFENDER ASSOCIATION RoomB-12 283-7795 9-4:30 
~-----other times by appointment ----t 
!C • a •
I I 412 
orr~AMPUSS!UDIR!S -
OllllJal !IIIJhOill Books Will Be Available !o Yoa •ovember 11, 11, a 1' 9:00 am to ':00 Jill Stadent Government Offices lad floor-Laronue 
• 0•1 BOOK liB BOUII ;.
r. a • .. 

WbW,BR£ND~, THAT~ 
BEAUT/F1JL I IT 6AYS 50 HlJCH .A;BOUT WHER£ 1-JE 1'\RE AND 5VCH. WUO 5AII> mAT? 5PINOZA( 
lltlU(IIIllt'l \ /l I I ' 0~ I LfEAH ?H I ' /t,l 'YEAH! I ' I tI ' ' t 
l t I l I .. I t I ' POW!! I , 
lllldfl/tl/tl/t 
ACROSS  35 Rooter  
1 Ashen  36 Bird  
5 Foolish  40 Edible  
10 Farm  tuber  
vehicle  41 Edible  
14 Seed cover  fungus  
15 Habitation  42 Building  
16 Salmagundi  part  
17 Flower  43 Cards  
20 Foxy  45 Storage  
21 Chl·chl  place  
22 Church  47 "Soap" name  
sections  48 Big bundle  
23 Request  49 Soviet·  
24 Affectation  Chinese  
26 Bactrian&  range  
29 Snares  52 Use a  
33 Sacred bull  straw  
of Egypt  53 Southeast  
..  34 Ranger's  Asians  
pal  56 Hymn  

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

Michael Molinelli 

80 Rose lover 27 Quickly 61 Roofing 28 La Scala's 
material site 62 Twist about 29 Group 63 007 customs 64 Fathered 30 "-andhll 65 Crimean money-.." 
river 31 Majorca seaport 

DOWN 32 Derisive 1 Footwear expression 2 Soviet sea 34 Rlchcake 3 Garden 37 Damage 
bloom 36 Debatable 4 Ivy Leaguer 39 Looking 5 Props up for work 
6 Body 44 Dramatized 
passage 45 Stored away 7 Feeble 46 City In 8 Greek Nevada 
letter 48 Copper 9 Affirmative capital 10 Gary or 49 King of 
Allee Israel 

11 European 50 Western tourist wolf mecca 51 One of a 
12 Mature pair 13 Trifles 52 Excel 18 -out 53 Exaggerated 
(quarrel) 54 Lily family 19 Sky pilot plant 23 Pain In 55 Willow 
the neck genus 24 Type of 57 Kind of 
truck curve 25 Hep 58 MacGraw 26 Henry­59 World 
Lodge power 


,.•••••••••••••••••••••••. :TONIGHT AT LEE'S! 





:• ••. 
: $2.00 Pitchers : ••with Purchase o£n·mner:•
• 

!GOOD BAR-B-QUE : : AND BREWS, AT : i LEE'S!i 
....................... 

The Observer Tuesday, November 11, 1980 -page 10 

Bottom Ten 
Wildcats head list 
By Skip Desjardin and Rob Simari 

The Bottom Ten voters had a lot ofpressure taken offofthem this week by the schedule makers, who provided them with three games between ranked teams. In East Lansing, the Northwestern Mildcats rolled over to Michigan State (2-7). Northwestern coach Rick Venturi Sl'mmed up his team's play when he said, "All afternoon it seemed like we were facing first and ninety-six." 
Colorado, coming off a disappointing win last week, took its 'ravelling Gong Show on the road to Stillwater, where Chuck Barris Fairbanks' squad lost to Oklahoma State, 42-7. 
Cincinnati, a team that appeared to be on the verge of a perfect ;eason, choked down a 10-0 deficit to beatMemphis State, 14-10. The ·vin was the Bearcats' first in thirteen tries. 
So Michigan State, Oklahoma State, and Cincinnati have been put 

•n Bottom Ten probation for this week. 
As everyone knows, Wisconsin is building a fine Bottom Ten ·rogram. This week, they got a little help from their fans. Eight times .Iichigan quarterback John Wangler went to the line of scrimmage, md eight times Wangler's squad backed off, unable to hear his 
signals. The first three times it happened, the officials warned the .-rowdto quiet down. The next three stoppages each cost the Badgers 1 time out. The seventh interruption resulted in a "halfthe distance" penalty and a Michigan first down;_ After the eighth time and another 
~penalty, the Wolverines were on the Wisconsin 1 yard-line, from where even deaf people could score. 
A special Bottom Ten salute goes out this week to Delaware State. The Hornets allowed Portland State QB Neil Lomax to throw eight TD passes and run for another score, as Delaware State lost to the Vikings, 105-0. You may remember Portland State as the team that beat Cal-Poly Pomona 97-3 two week~ ago. 
Here are the rankings: 1) Northwestern (0-10) In the Big Ten to stay, in the Bottom Ten to stay 
2) Oregon State (0-~) moves up a notch after loss to Washington State 3) Colorado (1-8) 
the Buffs are back! 4) UTEP {1-9) 

PREMED STUDENTS 
ARE YOU WORRIED ABOUT MONEY FOR MEDICAL SCHOOL? 
Medical/Osteopathic school is tough enough without the financial worries. With today's rising cost of tuition, medical/osteo­pathic school, to some, is only a dream. 
The U.S. Navy can help you fulfill that dream with a medical/osteopathic scholar­ship that pays 100% tuition, books, fees and a monthly stipend of $485 per month. This scholarship can help ease the burden of financial worries and allow you to use your energy to do your best in meClical/osteo­pathic school. 
Sound interesting? Find out more about the Navy scholarship program by calling the Medical Programs Officer at 657w2169, collect, or by writing to: 
MEDICAL PROGRAMS OFFICER (HPSP) NRD Chicago Bldg. 41, NAS Glenview, IL 60026 

t 
Debbie Raehl for a tremendous ton in the tournament finals. job in the nets. Borh Dayton and Eastern Illinois -Northern Michigan went on to will advance to the national 
-lose to eventual champion championships in Edwardsville, Eastern Illinois, who beat Day-Illinois. 
• • .1980 
· 

(continued from page 12} 
puppies and hog jowls, these relatively narrow-minded thought 
schemes may seem alien to your regional heritage. But the hate runs deep through those Southern bones. In Bear country, and most of the surrounding suburbs, Notre 
Dame football connotes memories more agonizing in nature than General Lee's unfortunate surrender along around 1865. 
"We've been to the barn three times and got burned," said coach Paul "Bear" Bryant after the last of three particularly distasteful football losses to Notre Dame here in 1976. 
At the time, in fact, the Bear himself wasn't so sure he'd ever have another shot at the Irish, what with retirement age so close and the 1980 schedule so far away. Said Bryant, "This is getting worse with age." • 
But the Bear must have been looking at the scoreboard these last few years. He's seen the South-Mississppi, Tennessee, Clemson, and Georgia Tech come to mind-rise again, putting the screws to the Irish Catholics time and time again since 'Barna's three-point loss to Notre Dame in '76. 
Such harbingers ofgood tidings and the Bear's relentless pursuit of every other record in the books seem to have brought Bryant to what may be, once and for all, a final judgement. 
The great ones-the Wilkinsons, the Blaiks, the McKays-have all coached and beaten Notre Dame at one time or another when they've had the chance. But Bear Bryant has, in his own words, been burned by the Irish to the point where he's never been able to savor even one· victory over . college football's most ballyhoo-ed 
monument. 
Not to mention, at least four occasions during the last 15 years when Notre Dame has cost Alabama national titles. Cracked one witty descendant ofJefferson Davis, "Alabamans still have trouble digesting the mathematics of selecting a national football cham­
pion." Especially where Notre Dame is involve& 
To set the record straight, Bear Bryant's record in 36 years of coaching is mind-boggling. He has won 303 football games (205 in 23 years at alma mater Alabama), a mark just 11 shy of Amos Alonzo Stagg's all-time record for wins in a career. His teams have earned six different varieties of the often mythical national championship and he is the only coach ever to win 100 games in a decade. 
Bryant has led Alabama to 21 consecutive bowl appearance,<; (26 overall) and won 12 SEC titles during his Tuscaloosa reign. John David Crow, Joe Namath, Ken Stabler-all are Bryant-produced ballplayers. In fact, 42 former Bryant players and coaches have made· their way to the head coaching ranks on the NCAA and professional 
levels. One poll actually awarded Bryant "SEC Coach of the Century" honors not too long ago. And, of course, he's even appeared on the cover of Time. 
But he's never beaten Notre Dame. That fact alone haunts him as much today as four years ago when Alabama journalists, after the Tide's third straight loss to the Irish (the three-point regular season defeat succeeding two-point and one-point bowl game dumpings), wrote of the "victims" of Notre Dame's "lifelong psyche", namely 
Bear, wondering if the misery would ever end. Believe me, when writers start groping for glittery descriptions of the Four Horsemen, Rockne, Leahy, and the rest, they have lost sight of reality on the football field. 
This Saturday in Birmingham-the land where football is a way of life, not just religion-BearBryant will have a chance to add to his list of coaching feats, a victory sweeter than any other south of Mason-Dixon. · 
IfNotre Dame and Alabama hadn't won a game all year, Saturday's episode would still merit a chapter all its own in any college football history book. That's because the Bear's been waiting for one shot at the Irish all his life. 
This ~ay be his last. 
by David Wtlson Sports Writer 

Although Notre Dame did not fare so well in last weekend's regional field hockey champion­ships in Michiga~ Head Coach Jan Galen seems .atisfied with the results ofher fitst year on the job. 
''I'm very happy with the sea­son despite our losing record," she says. "Besides, if we could take away the losses to Division I teams, we would have a winning record. 
"Most of our games were ex­tremely close; they could have gone either way. I think we had the basic skills of the game down okay. We just needed some more scoring." 
The Irish, a Division II team, 

finished their season with a mark 
of8-12, which is better than that 
of last year's squad-and Galen 
is already looking ahead to next 
year. 
"We'll be a young team," she 

admits, "but our entire defense is 
staying. We're only losing three 
players, and I'm looking towards 
recruiting some girls from the 

soccer squad." 
In the regionals, all three 

Indiana team, including state 
champion Valparaiso, dropped 
their first round matches and 
thus were eliminated from the 
competiton. Notre Dame lost a 
very even contest 1-0 to Nothern 
Mich~gan, a t~m Galen termed 
"the nicest we've played all sea­
son." Northern Michigan scored 
the lone goal in the first-minute 
of the game. 
Pat Crowell and Janet Hlavin 

had superb games, and Giana 
Marrone was playing at her best." 
Galem also credits-goalkeeper 


----~---------=-=~~~~--==·~--~-~-=--=---------~--~~~=---~~~------------­

• 
..-------------------------. 
~~()t"tScJ:~=~=~=·=~~!/S=S========*=================T=u=e=sd=a=y,=N=o=v=em=b=e=r=l=l,=l=9=80=-==p=a=ge=1=1 
by The Ohser!'t'r and The AJSuciated Prer.r 

The interhall six-mile run will be 
held on Saturday, November 15 at 10 a.m. The course will be entirely on theNotre Dame campus utilizing the golfcourse, lake trails and campus roads. Notre Dame undergraduates, graduates, faculty and staff may enter. Separate divisions for men and women in each category (undergraduate, graduate, faculty, and staff) will be set up. If you wish to run, you must come to the interhall office (C-2) in the ACC to complete insurance and entry forms before Wednesday, November 12. 
Arrny ticket refunds for Notre Dame or 
St. Mary's students who ordered an individual game ticket for the October 18 game and did not pick up that ticket are available in the form of cash refunds during the hours of 9-5 ·p.m. Monday throug'h Friday at the Gate 10 Box Office Window. Students may pick up their refund during the month of November. The last day refunds will be issued will be Wednesday, November 26 (the day before Thanksgiving break). Presentation of your student ID cards is required to obtain the 
cash refund. 
Lacrosse olar.ers that still have equipment 
should bring it to ltich 0 Leary's office on Wednesday from 2-4 p.m. 
Dr. Tom Kellyand the interhan office are looking for students to referee the upcoming interhall basketball season. This is a paid position and interested students are asked to call61 00 as soon as possible. Officiating eli nics will begin shortly. 
Student basketball tickets may be picked 
up at the second floor ticket window oftheACC from 8:30a.m. until4: 30 p.m. according to the following schedule: Juniors and Graduate Students, today; Sophomores, tomorrow; and Freshmen, Thursday, Nov. 13. From Friday, Nov. 14, until Wednesday, Nov. 19, students who are not able to pick up tickets on scheduled days may get their tickets. Any tickets unclaimed by Nov. 19 will be forfeited by the student and a refund rendered. There will be a limit of four ID's per pick up. Because ofa high demand for tickets this year some juniors have been lotteried into bleacher seats. A list of those students was published in The Observer on Friday, Nov. 7. Any student interested in purchasing tickets for the Nov. 20 game with the Polish National Team may do so at the Gate 10 box office from Nov. 10 to Nov. 14. On Nov. 17 unpurchased student tickets­for that game will go on sale to the general public. 
• • .$1000 

(contrimedfrom page 12) 
highest face value ever placed on a duckat for a sporting event, went for $1,000 each. Ifyou've got a spare $500 lying around and you can get to New Orleans in a hurry, a few of those tickets remain 
-available. Now the question is, how many people will pay $300 to be third-rate fight fans? The cheepest seat in the house-somewhere near Baton Rouge-goes for $50. A sellout crowd of 79,958, which by the way is not expected, would gross (grab a chair) $23 million. 
But why fly all the way to Louisiana when you can visit your local arena and cough up $40 (it's up to $50 in New York and Boston, another record) to watch another ofthose miserable closed-circuit productions. 
All ofthis to see two people pound on each other for anywhere from 30 seconds to two hours. Ask the average person on this campus if there was anything they would pay $50 to see, and you might get two responses-Bruce Springsteen or Saturday's Alabama game. 
Is being able to say that you saw this fight LIVE that much ofa status symbol? Can people honestly say that they received that much pleasure from this 
experience? 

Perhaps, but I doubt it. So why do people pay that kind of money? If you understand public relations, it's simple-They get sold. If you con­vince people that a certain event is big-time enough, sooner or later their going to believe it. And it is this that Don King does so well. It's nothing but pure, unadulterated hype. 
Ray Leonard-the Olympic gold medalist turned pro, 29-1 as a money-making boxer, "America's Fighter." 
Roberto Duran-the slimy, grizzly Pana­manian who speaks ab9ut six words ofEnglish, 70­1 as a professional, "los manos peidras-the hands of stone," the WBC wealterweight cham­pion. 
Don King sums all of that up in a simple promotional slogan: "Stone vs. Sugar, II." 
• Wildcats if&FOOTBALLB!j 
(cofltinued from page 10) 
gave up 46 tewer points this week than last 5) Vanderbilt (1-7) Gloria and the boys drop one to Kentucky 
6) Memphis State (1-8) their schedule reads like "Who's Who in the Bottom Ten" 
7) (tie) Columbia (1-7) and Penn (1-7) who can tell the difference? 
9) Air Force State (1-7-1) 24-47 losers to University of Army at West Point 10) UCLA (6-2) winless in November Also Receiving Votes: Kansas State (2-7) Wisconsin (2-7) NBC News (0-Tuesday) who gave them the authority to steal California's votes? Quote of the Week: Notre Dame coach Dan Devine, after the 3-3 tie with Georgia 
. Tech (as quoted by David Israel) "We simply got beat by a better football team that was better coached." H 
AP top 20 
Georgia (54) 1,299
L 9-0-0 
So. California (6) 1,180 \. Florida Stat"(\) 9-1-0 I. 171 
2. 7·11-1 
Nebraska (2) I, 105 Alabama 
4. 8-1-0 
8-1-0 1,067 6. 7-0-1 
~­
Notre Dame 1,045 
Ohio State 924
7. 8-1-0 
Pitt 868 
Penn State 
8. 8-1-0 
765 10. Oklahoma 6-2-0 618 11. Michi~~:an 7-l·!l 577 
, 12. Baylor 1!-1 0 I 550 13. Bri~~:ham YounA 8-1-0 464 1·4. So. Carnlina 7-2-0 4,\ 
9­
15. N. Carolona il-l o 444 16. Purdue 7-2-ll H9 17.· UCLA 6-2-0 251 18. SMU 1-2-o I 243 19. Mississippi St. 7-2-fl 225 20. Florida 6-2-0 90 

All, l.lS'>rlter1 JCJS nus! he recervtH1 bv 4 45 p m two davs pno· •o the ·~Sl•f' n ""''''' 11 tt•p c~.l rs rlln The Observer off tee wtlt accept c lassrtreds Mono.. ~ throunh Fnolav. 10 00 a rr •a 4 45 p m All clas~ 'reds must he
Classifieds prc-patff Ptlher rn nerson or througt1 the mdtl 
-------1
wanted: dr•Jmmer lor rock/jazz SOIIIN 31511ETUI!NS TO THE PINNACLE
FOUND: a male mixed-breed puppy, NEED MANY TICKETS TO AIR FORCE. II/A Vli 2/lAMA TIX llliSTOFFEiR group. Must be willing to practice OF PARTY SATURDAY NIGHT!
NOTICES oil-while with some tan In the Eddy GA PREFEIIED. CALL TIM AT 1650 41-437/i
and own his set. Call Shawn-8275 or
St. area around Logan Center BOSTON CLUB IS SPONSORING A TRIP
luis 3045. Desperately need 3 STU or GA Air 2 BAMA TICKETS FOil SALE. BEST 
ND/SMC PHOTOGRAPHERS I need Wednesday night, Nov. 5 call 232-TO THE CELTICS-BULLS GAME ON
Force tickets. I got lots ol money. OFFER, CALL1022 or 2253. 
camera time. Do you need a 6140 riders to TORONTO lor weekend ol NOV. 18 IN CHICAGO. PRICE IS $15,
Ken 8583 

model? "' 7 344 Nov. 14leavlng Fri. a.m. call mike at INClUDES TIX, BUS, REFRESH. SIGN UP
LOST -a pair ot brown women's 

1108. I WILL KILL MYSELF i/1 dmt't Kef 2 OR 4 TONIGHT aTOMMOIIROW IN LAFOR­
PERSONALS I
TYPINGI FAST, ACCURATE TYPING AT glasses with tinted sun lenses. Lost 
ALAIIJ.ioi'IA Tlx. niirfs'IJRGENTit! call TUNE BEGINNING AT 7. 38 SPACES,REASONABLE RATES. II you need Monday between Lafortune and Need ride to Clevelond on Monday Gordon at 277-3617. EVERYONE WELCOME! 
something In a hurry, I can type II the ACC. II found please call Beth at before Thanksgiving break Will CONNIE, CHEER UP All IS NOT AS BAD AS
lor you. No job too big or too small. 1715 or 277-8037. share driving and $$. Call Dan at I:"XTRA-TI'R R/!STR/111. llli/NGS Meet Michael Molinelli altha auto­YOU THINK, trS WOIISEI
Close to campus. Call lynn Saylor 2850. • COMING FOR THE Alii FORCE GAME­graph party lor "Molarity: On the
LOST: MALE GOLDEN RETRIEVER NEAR FROM YOUR FELLOW DEPI!ESSEEI

233-3423, onytlme. l DON'T WANT TO UPSET THEM BY NOT Road Ia Selling Out," Thursday from
BULLA ROAD. HE HAS A REDDISH r-----------, 
"LIGHTFINGERS"
HAVING TIX READY. I NEED 4 STUDENT 3 to 5 In the Lafortune rathskeller. 
Experienced typist will do typing In COAT AND MICHIGAN TAGS. CALL/ l FOR SAtE OR GA TIX FOR THAT BIG, CHALLENG· 
VOLUNTEERS WANTED L---------------~ 1. Tulor 2nd gr. girl, Basic Math. 
her home. Convenient to NO. GENNY AT 283-8903. I MISS HIM. THE 'BEGOSARE BOLTING TO'BAMAIIII
lNG CONTEST. 

Recently completed typing ol dis­
CAI.Ljolm 111 1947, 1!66/ HI GRAM HOGANIIIIII
2. 9th & 10th gr. vietnamese students, English & Math. 
sertation. References available. 2 USC tickets lor sale Call 607-256­
[FOR RENT ] 6979 SOUTHERN N.D. GRAD DIRELY NEEDS Dear "Strike" Costello: 36? Give me
272-7623. 
3. Senior In h.s., Analytical
1 TO 10 GA ALABAMA/N.D. TICKETS. a breakl Anyway, don'tget sick over 
OVERSEAS JOBS · Summer/year PAN-AM TWO-FOR-ONE ROUND TRIP
FOR RENT: Elllclency apt. In elegant 

WILL PAY FAIR PREMIUM PRICE, CALL II, there Is always swlmm... Maybe
Geometry -willing to pay.
round. Europe, S.Amer., Australia, TICKETS ANYWHERE PAN-AM FLIES!
old house near campus. Call Vern COLLECT AT 504-927-6793. not. Hope you leal beHer....Pieasell
4. 14 yr. old girl, Reodlng a Basic
Asia. Atllletds. $500-$1200 monthly. $80 CALL 272-8722
lC3881 or 287-3132. Signed, A Chocolate Turtle
Math.
Sightseeing. Free Info. Write: IJC, Need Alabama tickets desperately. Apt. lor rent.$50.00 month. Near 5. 17 yr. old boy, History & English.
Box 52-IN4, Corona Del Mar, Ca. Call Dave or Joe@ 1728 or 1605. The Irish are ready, They're strong school. lmmedlale.233-1329 6. VIsit with handicapped man,
92625. TICKETS and they're mean. They' II turn the
Need 2 or 4 Tlx lor Alabama. Call male prelerred-wllllng to pay. 

Crimson Tide Into a calm sea olWish to sublet 4 person NO apt. tor

UGLY DUCKLING RENT-A-CAll Stan 1942 Contact Volunteer Servlces,7308. 
GREEN! 

THANKSGIVING SPECIAL. 4 days, second semester. $90 each/month Air Force GAs and Students needed 
Need desperately 2 or 3 GA Tlx to $39.95 with 200 free miles. Phone 
plus share utilities. Secure; 10 Call6251 or 1040 HEY DYXZ: Air Force game. Call Nancy 5771 Goose -So glad to see yo, hope
minute walk to campus. Call 233-BUDDAH NEEDS A SHAVE. BETH WILL255-2323 tor reservations. 
NEED 4 GAs tor AIR FORCE GAME. SMC. 
SEE HEARTS BEFORE HER EYES WHEN you can make lito Bridget's. Instant cash paid lor ladles· and Call Susan B. -6945 HE DOES. Hull 
2631 

Need 3 Af tlx, Student or GA Call men's clan rings. $20-$100 or more. THE OSTRICHES
FOR RENT -one bedroom apt., Needed 2 Student Or GA Tickets 234-6351. 
MADEMOISELLE ROBAN, ALIAS

close to campus. Large enough ror For Air Force. Please Call Mike at NEED 4 AIR FORCE TICKETS. WILL PAY ROBERTA. DIABLO, SAVIOR OF HAP· We make house calls. Also buying 
2. $155 @ utilities a deposll. Call Goose,
other gold Items. 255-2402. Ron at Pandora's Books, 233-2342. Good luck on your Accounting
3828 TOP DOLLAR. CALL JOHN 1629. LESS FRESHMEN, SEXY BIKE OWNER, Found: Calculator oft campus. Need Air Force tlx ... Will pay bucksl test that we all have heard so much REDFORD IMITATOR, RECEIVER OF
NEED AIR FORCE TIX CALL LARRY 1166 

Call 289-5109 to Identity. Calllarry:.·.::.··1..::8_16_____ about. MYSTERIOUS 3 A.M. PHONE CALLS, Pete B. 
AND DEAR ROOMATE -HAPPY 19th

DESPEIIATELYNEED THREE STUDENT TIX NEED 3 A. f. GA TIX FOR UNCLE WHO BIRTHDAYIII 
WANTED J

PART TIME JOB. Ideal lor Students. 
FOR AIR FORCE. CALL 4375 P.S. How's your Finance? HAS NEVER SEEN AN N.D. GAME CALLTelephone work from our olllce 
(Evening hours) Call Nancy 232-Noed a Ride to St. louis and back HOCKEY IS IN, AT SMC111 HOW 'BOUT
NEED 2 GA TIX TO AIR FORCE GAME SWeets, Gabby, Paul, Don, and
JIM 8103 NOV. 22; PLEASE CALL JENNIFER AT John -Thanks lor telling me be a on the weekend ol November 15. 
IT GIRLSIII Will share usual. Call Gary al1030. 
1 need 2 G.A. tickets lor Air Force.

277-8760. "Lustbomb"l 
Sheila Woman Champagne Break­Please call Mike at 8397. 

Lillie Goose
DESPEIIATELY need a ride to

Call 272-4105 last Wednesday 7:00 a.m. 1308
NEED 'BAMA TICKETll!lll CALL CHRIS 
WASHINGTON, D.C., AREA lor Thanks­

FOR SALE: FOUR GOOD GA TICKETS Enchanted Forest Be There ALOHA II giving vacation. Would l)ke to leave What do you call a tomb In theAT 3283. 
TOGETHER FOR AIR FORCE. BEST Tuesday. Call Mike at 1601. Need 4 or 5 GA's lor Air Force... Yukon? HOW YOU DOIN'
OFFER CALL JC AT8540 AREII10 PM DESPEIIATELVIII Please call Kalan at A:. A mooseleuml 
TO "LimE" MIMI: SORRY THAT THERE 8731Anyone who has pictures ol the 
DESPERATELY NEED TIX FOil AIR FORCE 
IS NO MAIIQIJIS IN NEW YORK, NEW

Country Rock Jam PLEASEi call ATTENTION NATIONAL SKI PATROL
CALL JEFF 232-0902 John Higgins at 8553 or 8661. Need 2 Air Force GA tickets. Call MEMBERS! we need your help. YORK TO ANNOUNCE THE BIG 21. tlx call JOHN 3661 
CHEERS!

AUDITIONS IN Mlk!l 233-4486. FOOO, TRANSPORTATION and FUN RIDE NEEDED !rom north JERSEY to SIGNED,
NEED MANY STUDENT TIX FOil AIR provided Call larry, 277-0010 lor 
N.D. alter Thanksgiving. Jim 8700. HELPI Rich uncle need 2 GA tlx to YOUR DRIVER, POPS.
FORCE -BITZ. 233-2865. Info. Call TODAY!
Alabama. Please call 284-5179. 



Tuesday, November 11, 1980 -·page 12 
$1000 for a fight? 


The business of public relations is an intriguing one. It is one that is often taken for granted by those who think it is nothing besides writing those silly little press releases and using that dynamic personality to impress people. 
Ah, but then there are those P.R. men who do it better than· others. They are the wealthy ones­the verrry wealthy ones. Case in point-Don King, as in Don King Promotions, Inc. You know, the fight business. 
You may recall Don King's last promotion. It was billed as "The Last Hurrah." No fight could live up to the pre-bout hype that King pumped into the thrashing that Larry Holmes gave an over­the-hill Muhammed Ali. 
No fight could live up to the dollar signs that surrounded that battle either-a record $6.2 million gate from ·a make-shift 24, 790-seat area constructed in the Ceasar's Palace parking lot; the $5 million that Las Vegas establishment paid just to stage the fight; millions to the winner; even more millions to the loser; about $30 a ticket paid by millions ofpeople around the world to watch a black and white, poorly produced closed-circuit 
Michael 

Ortman 


rendition; $500 for a seat at ringside. 
Well folks, Don King is at it again, and this one promises to be bigger than anything imaginable. Two weeks from tonight, Suger Ray Leonard will face Roberto Duran in the long-awaited rematch of the June 20 wealterweight title fight in which 
of the June io welterweight title fight in which Duran stripped Leonard of the World Boxing Council crown. Neither fighter has entered the ring since that memorable night in Montreal. 
And for the upcoming bout in the New Orleans Superdome, the dollar signs are ... are ... , oh, I feel faint. The 1 ,292 ringside seats were spoken for before the public sale began. Those tickets, the 
(continued on page II) 

Oilers prevail over Patriots 
winner. The loss was a costly one for New England, which fell to 7-3 

Former W'BC welterweight champion Sugar Ray Leonard (above) will 
and back into a first-place tie 

face Roberto Duran, the man who took that title away from him in june, in 
with Buffalo in the AFC east. 

the long-awaited rematch scheduledfor November 25. Neither man has 
They play each other on Dec. 14 

fought since that first fight. See Michael Ortman's column on the mega­
in Foxboro, Mass. 
bucks rematc·h (left). 
To bowls 

Alabatna· game to decide bids 
Houston (AP) -Ken Stabler fired three scoring passes, two in a three-touchdown second per­iod, and Earl Campbell scored twice as the Houston Oilers withstood a furious New England comeback and beat the Patriots 38-34 in National Football League action last night. 
Steve Grogan repeatedly ral­lied New England, throwing three touchdown passes in the second half. And when Mosi Tatupu recovered an onside kick with barely a minute to play, the Patriots were on the verge of an extraordinary victory. But after driving the Pats from their own 48 to the Houston 19-yard line with 35 seconds to play, Grogan overthrew Stanley Morgan in the left corner of the end zone and cornerback Greg Stemrick made the interception that clinched · Houston's emotional triumph. 

Stabler's scoring passes in the second quarter were a 79-yard "excuse me" deflection to Mik~ Barber and a 4-yarder to old buddy Dave Casper. 
Campbell, who scored the other touchdown in that quarter with a 2-yard run on the first play following Jack Tatum's 35-yard interception return, also scored on a 7-yard thrust midway in the fourth quarter. Campbell sur­passed the 1 ,000-yard barrier to remain the National Football League's leading rusher, finish­ing the game with 130 yards to hit 1,094 for the season. 
Stabler cemented the triumph with his third TD pass, a 16­yarder to Mike Renfro with 2:41 to play. It turned out to be the 
1-2-314 in_.1980 

Gary 
Grasse 
It v.:as only September 5th. But already, the Huntsville (Ala.) News headlme was setting the sights of the South onJohnny Reb's biggest grudge match since Willie T. Sherman waged arson through the land of Tara, peach trees, and cotton fields 115 years ago. 
"It's just good, old-fashioned hate" was the perceptive little kicker draped above the lead story on the sports page ofnorthern Alabama's leading tabloid. ­
"Alabama campus looking to Notre Dame" read the headline informing readers of the Saturday in November reserved in lieu ofa 1oped-for Irish Wake-southern style. · The article, which appeared in newspapers all across the South was · 1 h f 1 h ' 
'o convement ~ ate u .'Iris coach Dan Devine has categorized it as . ,uggest_ed readmg for his players in this week's information packet on t~pcommg opponents. This usually makes for interesting reading on l·riday plane rides. And couldn't you just picture the local plantation owners with their ·\'eh!ng paper_s bas~ing.on their front sto9ps on a sticky September ·:ve~m~, su~kmg mmt J_uleps, bespeaking the praises of that grand nstitutton JUSt a few miles down the road in Tuscaloosa. 

• "?le Bear's gonna whup on them boys this time," one ofthe more 
o.;apient followers of the Alabama's 67-year old, grizzly-faced football monument must have predicted. "Yessuh," responded another ofthe bleeding-crimson-and-white­
types, "It's about tahm they was learned a few facts about footbawl 

don't ya' think?" ' Of course, for those of you not born and bred on staples like hush 
(continued on page 10) · 

ATLANTA-The Omni, Pe-achtree Street and 
one of the largest, most modern airports in the 
world ... This is Atlanta. 

Beautiful women and suntans in November. 
Scarlett O'Hara trying to find a midwife, a fire 
truck and Rhett Butler all at the same time. This is 
Atlanta. 

The highest crime rate in the nation, the Atlanta 
Braves and a 3-3 tie. That too is Atlanta. 
But you can't blame the city-at least not for 
the tie. No one down here even cared about the 
game to be played at Grant Field. The heart and 
mind of every good Georgian was with Vince 
Dooley down in Jacksonville where his undefeated 
Bulldogs would defend the state's pride against the 
Gators ofFlorida. Georgia Tech was 1-7 and about 
as inept as a porcupine in a balloon factory. And no 
one much cared that Notre Dame was the top­
ranked team in the nation either. They figured the 
Bulldogs should have been number-one all along. 
So, at gametime, a mere 40,000 people were on 
hand_ to soak up a little sunshine, southern 
hospitality and watch a massacre unfold. 
But there was to be no massacre on this sunny 
Georgia Saturday. There was not even to be a 
winner. Notre Dame and Georgia Tech banged 
heads for the better part of60 minutes and when it 
was over they had proved absolutely nothing at all. 
Ah, but you'd have never guessed it if you 
happened to stick your head in the YellowJacket lockerroom where the celebration resembled Broad Street after the Phillies won the Series. "Hey, this is great!" exclaimed Tech's senior safety, Lawrence Lowe. "I'm against ties," admitted Coach Bill Curry, "but I'll take this one anytime. This is definitely the high point of our season." Certainly notthe kind ofcomments one expects after a standoff. Across' the astroturf, in a garage that doubles as 
the visitor's lockerroom, the scene was entirely different. 
"This is as bad as a loss," sighed Mike Courey. "And I think if you ask anyone else in this lockerroom they'll tell you the same thing." · Of course, one doesn't expect that kind of talk 

either. After all, the Irish drdn't lose so they're still undefeated. Yeah, but they didn't win so they're not 8-0 either. 
And so, as the sun sunk slowly between the Peachtree Pfaza and the Coca Cola Building, the question remained: 
What do the bowl people do with a 7-0-1 Notre Dame team that still must play Alabama and Southern Cal on the road? 
No, not pray for them (although that might not be such a bad idea either.) First, they wait and see what the Irish do against Alabama. If they win, meet me in New Orleans for a New Year's party at the Sugar Bowl. If they lose, break out your ten­gallon hats and get set for Danny Does Dallas­
part III. 
. See, the way I figure it, the Sugar Bowl people hold the trump card-an undefeated, number one-ranked Georgia team that must play only LSU before bids are distributed next Saturday. Assuming the Bulldogs remain undefeat~d, their logical opponent for the national title would be the Irish-despite the December 6 game with Southern Cal that everyone has been too busy worrying about Alabama to remember. And of course the Irish would jump at the chance to play Ge~rgia fm: the title (and the money.) 
But, if Alabama defeats Notre Dame, the Irish would be 7-1-1 and the Sugar Bowl people would probably not risk an invitation. That would leave the Orange Bowl and Cotton Bowl drooling in the corner and, in that case, look for the Irish to take their act to Dallas on New Year's Day. 
But maybe we're getting ahead of ourselves. Maybe it really isn't a good idea to worry about anybody or anything but the next opponent-in this case, Alabama. 
Now, does anyone need any more to worry about? 


