... The Irish Extra-Pages 9-12 

VOL. XV, NO. 10 an independent student newspapc;r serving norre dame and sainr mary's FRIDAY, SEP'IEMBER 5, 1980 

Student searchcontinues 
said. 
Gorman lives in comfortable, anonymous retirement in a three-story brick house in Washington, D.C. Her husband, a real estate man she asked not to be identified, died 23 years ago. 
"I am a very private person. I don't like publicity, good, bad, or 
(continued on page 3) 

93% of eligible youth register for draft 
Washington(AP)-Compliance with the government's new draft registration program is sharply improved over the vietnam-era signup, the head of the Selective Service system said yesterday. 
Director Bernard Rostker said about 93 percent ofeligible youths had registered by three weeks after the initial July sign up period. Comparable figures for 1973, he said, showed an 83 percent compliance. · 
The figures were immediately challenged by the Rev. Barry· Lynn, chairman of the Committee Against Registration and the Draft. He called for an independent audit of the registration forms. 
Rostker had said earlier that he would agree to such an audit, and Lynn and Deputy Selective Service Director Brayton Harris indicated that Congress' General Accounting Office would be an appropriate agency for the job. 
Whether such an audit will be held, though, remains a decision for Congress. 
Lynn suggested that release of the figures may have been aimed at influencing the appropriations for Selective Service, which got underway Thursday. 
The initial two-week registration program was held in July for people born in 1960 and 1961. With an estimated 3,880,000 young men eligible to sign up, Rostker said 3,593,187 cards had been turned in by Aug. 22. 
He conceded that some will have to be weeded out to eliminate false names, women, and·over-age people, but said a spot check had shown an error rate of only about one percent so far. 
Rostker declined to characterize the success of the program to date, but did comment that he is "not unhappy" with it. 
"Basically, 19-and 20-year-olds are patriotic, law-abiding citizens who heeded the call of the president and Congress. The very great majority registered as required," said Rostker. 
Registration of men born in 1962 will be held inJanuary and after that youths will be expected to sign up withing 30 days of their 18th birthday. 
Failure to register is a felony punishable by up to five years in prison and a $10,000 fine, but Rostker emphasized that he is "in the registration business, not the prosecution business." 
Registrants should begin receiving confirmation forms in about two weeks, he said, and it will be at least 90 days before any prosecutions can be recommended to the Justice Department. 
A one-in-700 sample of the cards returned indicated that 1.8 percent wrote "conscientious objector" or "registered under protest" on the cards Rostker said. 
New eventsplanned 
Commission expands program 
Editor's Note: Focus wrfl be a daily Observer news feature containing quality in-depth reporting by Observer and Associated Press staff reporters. by Peter Mattiace Associated Press Wrtter 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. (AP)-These days, Margaret Gorman wants nothing to do with the Miss America Pageant. Once upon a time, the still blonde and vivacious 75-year-old had everything to do with the nation's most famous beauty contest. 
Gorman was the very first Miss America, crowned on Atlantic City's Steel Pier in 1921. Today it takes hours ofcoaxing just to get her to·talk about the pageant. 
world." 
Lawler was especially hopeful about the prospects of the Drama on Campus program. He said that the Commission has scheduled the award-winning Broadway hit, "Diversions and Delights," for the Notre Dame campus. Vincent Price will star in the production. 
Also on the calendar is the Student Players' performance of "A Shot in the Dark." The leading male in this murder-com­edy is a young man who has not performed in a drama since the sixth grade. 
Lawler emphasized the im­portance of the permanent art exhibit, the Isis Gallery. "We really want to increase its visi­bility. We have a young lady in charge of it who has really worked hard to improve the gallery," he said. 
The Commission has worked hard to upgrade all the programs in general. As Lawler says, "We have added some new dimen­sions, and we have something for everyone. It's now up to the students to make the program a success." 

L--------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
And then what she says is not too complementary. 
"I never cared to be Miss America. It wasn't my idea. I am so bored by it all. I really want to forget the whole thing," she insisted. 


Focus 
"Would I do it again? Oh, never in my life!" 
Nevertheless, the former Miss America may tune in to see her successor crowned Saturday night. ''That is, if I don't go to s~ep. It can be so boring," she 
~y navtd Sarphie 

In an attempt to broaden its appeal to all Notre Dame students, the former Notre Dame Cultural Arts Commission is expanding its program to in­clude several new interest areas. Along with the additions, the commissioners have opted for a name change. 
Now known 'as the Contem­porary Arts Commission of the Notre Dame Student Union, the group is sensitive to the changing moods on the campus and wants to progress with these changes. 
"Our goal is to appeal to all students," Publicity Commissioner Ed Callahan com­mented. "Certainly, we deal in the arts, but we are also in­terested in including social func­tions in our program." 
Two new events have already been scheduled for the Notre Dame students. A Country Rock Jam will be held at Stepan Center come November 1. This will be an all-clay concet:t with five or six bands. 
A Student Film Series has also been planned. Contemporary Arts Commissioner .Bill Lawler noted that this addition will coin­cide with the introduction of a new film-making class in the Communications/Theater Department. The series will con­sist of films made entirely by students. 
Lawler emphasized the contin­uation of the many successful programs held in the past. "The Sophomore Literary Festival, which will be held in early March, may be the best of our pro­grams," he said. "In the past it has been an effective gauge in introducing new literary talent." The festival includes prominant authors along with young, am­bitious writers. Sophomores in­terested in working with the Festival Committee should watch their signs announcing SLF organizational meetings. 
"In 1968 we had a then unknown writer by the name of Kurt Vonnegut come," Lawler remarked. "Since then, Vonnegut has become one ofthe most popular authors in the 
by Paul McGinn 

In the continuing search for the whereabouts of George Wobil, the Ghanian freshman who has not been seen since last Tuesday, Notre Dame Security and South Bend police forces have yet to discover a significant lead. 
The only investigative clue so far is an eyewitness account of Wobil talking to someone at the Town and Country Shopping Center at around 1 p.m. on Tuesday. Wobil reportedly was asking for directions to the Scottsdale Mall via public trans­portation. 
Although no one has reported seeing W obi! at the Scottsdale Mall, law enforcement officials are still confident that no foul play was involved in his dis­appearance and he will be found unharmed. 
The entire episode began last Tuesday morning when_ Dave 

Pangrave, Wobil's roommate, 
left for class at around 9: 15 a.m. 
"I thought he'd be coming along right behind me," Pangraze replied when asked how the incident started. "He didn't tell me anything about it (going to Scottsdale Mall)." 
Questioned about Wobil's feelings and attitudes concerning life at the University, Pangraze said, "George showed no signs of not being well-adjusted as much as could be expected." 
Also asked about Wobil's pos­sible adjustment problems, Joseph Allotey, a fellow Ghanian who helped W obi! get adjusted, stated, "I didn't know him that well. I saw him on Saturday, and called him on Sunday." 
Allotey said that he had at­tempted to get someone to show Wobil around South Bend, but had been unable to do so. W obil had wanted to buy some clothes. 
Friday, September 5, 1980 -page 2
News Brie/§
c===~======*==============================
by The Observer and The Associated Press 

Inside Friday 

President Carter, one day after disclosing 
that .Egypt and Israel had agreed to resume Mideast peace negotiations stemming from the 1978 Camp David accords, sought yesterday to mend frayed relations with the American Jewish community. In his address to B'nai B'rith, the Jewish service organization, Carter was sur.e to strike back at GOP presidential nominee Ronald Reagan, who asserted on Wednesday night that the President's Mideast policies had created a dangerous "flashpoint" in the Middle East and had led to increased influence in the area by the Soviet Union. The President's speech came after Sol Linowitz, the adminis­tration's special Mideast peace negotiator, formally announced in Cairo that hgyptian President Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin had agreed to resume talks on Palestinian autonomy and will hold a second Mideast summit with Carter before the end of the year. -AP 
Over 3 5, ooo personsemigrated from the 
Communist nations of hastern burope, to West Germany in the last decade. Most of them came after the Helsinki Agreements were signed in 1975, the Foreign Minister said yesterday. About a third of the number, 120,000 to 125,000, came from Poland during the last four years, according to ministry spokesman Klaus Dohnanyi. West Germany and Poland concluded an agreement in 1976 allowing easier repatriation ofethnic Germans. In 1975-79, more that 230,000 persons emigrated from the Soviet Union, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Romania, Hungary and Yugoslavia, Dohnanyi said.-AP 
Gov. Otis R. Bowen signed on yesterday 
as honorary chairman of Ronald Reagan's presidential cam­paign in Indiana, pledging to do whatever is required to help the California Republican win the White House. One of the governor's first tasks in his new position will be to introduce Reagan when he makes a campaign visit to Kokomo on Monday. Tentative plans are for the Republican nominee to arrive in the Howard County City around 11:30 a.m. Monday, make a major economic address at a rally at a Kokomo shopping mall at 12:15 p.m. and then attend a reception at a local American Legion hall. "Gov. Reagan's strong stands on the key issues ofinflation, unemployment and national defense are essentially what most Hoosiers and most Americans agree with," Bowen said. -AP 
Menachem Bel!in accepted an invitation yesterday from President Carte:Tor formal talks in Washington the week after the U.S. presidential elections. It was not known if the meeting is planned as a three-way summit with hgyptian President Anwar Sadat. He had called for a summit to get the stalled Palestinian autonomy talks moving again. The Carter invitation was extended when Begin telephoned Carter to congratulate him on the work ofSol Linowitz, who arranged a resumption of the talks. Begin also placed a call to Sadat in egypt but it was not known ifthe two men discussed a sull).mit. In Cairo, Linowitz met with top hgyptian officials and said the sessions oovered groundwork for a planned three-way summit to be held in November. There has been no official announce­ment yet from Washington that a Camp David-style summit 
was scheduled, and a White House spokesman there said there was "a general conversation about the timing of a summit meeting, but no decisions at all were made." -AP 
Soviet radio jammers, using loud 
ga1"led voices, grinding buzz-saw sounds and distorted music, are having only mixed success in their third week of efforts to block out Western broadcasts to the Soviet Union, according to Western monitors and Soviet listeners. Despite an invest­ment in jamming personnel and equipment that Soviet sources believe has been extremely expensive, Russian-language broadcasts by the voice of America, the British Broadcasting Corp, and West Germany's "German Wave" are still slipping through to many Soviet citizens determined to hear them. U.S., British and West German diplomats have protested the inter­terence to the Soviet government. But Soviet authorities mblicly deny any jamming is going on. The drowning-out of \'(!estern broadcasts began Aug. 20 during widespread worker -trikes in Poland. Many Western analysts assumed the inter­terence was aimed at blocking news of the Polish unrest from Soviet listeners. Others, however, believe it may be a sign of generally chilling Soviet-Western relations and could last for a :ung time. The Soviet Union jammed Western broadcasts for years before 1973, when the jam111ing of most stations ended during the bloom of detente. -AP 
Mostly sunnvdays and clear, cool nights. Highs today and tomorrow in the low to mid 80s with mostly sunny skies, lows tonight in the low to mid 60s. 


A Football Weekend drama 

Greetings, and welcome to an authentic football weekend: The Observer declares it official. And if our stagehands will oblige, I'd like to pull back the curtains and reveal another meaty weekend issue. Here is what you can expect, both from us and from the weekend, and it may not be what you thought. 
First, you are likely to see two odd things. If you walk out of class today and feel as though a partial eclipse has overtaken the sky, relax. It is just the Goodyear Blimp warming up, blimping and bloating and hopefully not bumping. By the way, yelling to it "hey-you're blocking my sun"' won't work, so save your breath. The next odd thing you will encounter is the faceless, dome-oriented masses (in the marxian, rather than the litur­gical sense). Yelling "hey­
you're blocking my campus" won't work here either. My ad­vice is lie low, stay out of their way, and take it philosophically: they are having a good time, they only get to do this once in a while, so let it be. 
And while you are holed up, as perhaps you are even now, I would like to direct your atten­tion to the "Irish hxtra," our first football supplement of the year. Four solid pages of crisp prose highlights, analyzes and postul­ates the theories and realities of gridiron gambits. Food for the addict. Good stuff. 
And if football isn't your bag, or ifyou are simply saving yorself for another four four pages of sports(which we will be featuring tomorrow) then-low and be­hold!-we have 16 additional pages worth of entertaining features, opinionated editorials, and solid, informative news to enlighten your day (or your stay, whichever the case may be). Fr. Robert Griffin begins his e­leventh year with us by offering his somewhat urbane, literary reflections on the features pages, while Mark Ferron puts Ronald Reagan in his place, and on the editorial pages Michael Onufrak explains why so many educators on this campus just love the 
Mark Rust 
opportunity to teach during all this charming construction. A rare piece of piercing insight. 
But once you are through with the paper and the sun goes down, there are other, equally worth­while endeavors. The night-
should be good for outside parties, and tomorrow night as well. But I must tell you this solemnly: the drinking age in this state is 21. To drink under "age" ts a very grave sin. hspecially in this state. Why, I take this so seriously that I didn't have my first beer until I was 22, and then only because it was a Molson's. And if the truth be told, I have been to parties, particularly on football weekends, where I've seen people (even underage!) drink two, even three beers. Appalling. 
But seriously, if you are not 21 do try to stay clear of the law. Nasty threats have been made by an otherwise civil city, one run by a former darner no less. Kind of hurts a guy's feelings. 
Now here is an important clue to making it the next morning from your dorm to the stadium, where I am told they are holding a football game (against some team from downstate evidently). Chances are good you will walk through the main quad, neces­sarily crossing the south quad. When you arrive there you may notice an orderly line formed, with contiguous bodies spaced two to forty-three abreast,­
stretching from some far-re­moved objective backwards to­
...._ward eternity. Do not be inti­midated. These folhare pointed toward the Hammes Bookstore, one of the few places left in this country where one may still purchase a HunterS. Thompson novel and legally charge it to one's parents. But these people are not here to purchase Hunter S. Thompson novels. My advice to you at this juncture is when you reach the line, cross ... but do it intelligently. Wear a Notre Dame shirt of your own, take it off your back, offer it to the potential buyer as a solution to the unbearably long line: and when the line dweller has relaxed his stance long enough to take a good look, tuck it under your arm, duck your head dowrl, and dart for daylight like a fullback mad with the passion ofthe ru~h. No fancy moves: straight ahead running will suffice. 
If you are not prone to using your limb as a straigh tarm (cocky devil, you) you may consider using it to hold your copy of The Observer's Saturday edition. This issue is something ofa first for us and an issue that we expect to turn out quite nicely. More sports, morefeatures, more news and-another first-an eight panel, special "Molarity" which you shouldn't miss. 
And speaking ofmissing, I now realize the stage hands I called earlier are itching to do their thing with the curtain. It turns out I've rambled too long and missed my cue. exit stage write. 

Activities Night 
•


stgn-up 
All groups interested in sign­ing up for a table at Activities Night this Monday, must do so this afternoon by 3 p.m. in the Student Activities office on the first floor of LaFortune. 

Design Editor. . . . Margaret Kruse Design Assistant ..... Mary Dumm Night Technicians ............... . 
Kathy Crossett Pat DiPietro Editorial Layout ... Mike Onufrak Features Layout . ... ~. Kate Farrell Sports Layout ...... Chris Needles Supplement Layout .............. . Paul Mullaney nay Technician .............. Bill Typists . ........' .... Bobbi W enz Kathy O'Dell Suzy Sulentic Photographer ....... Lisa Gasiorek 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is 
published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation 
periods. The Observer is published 
by the students of Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions 
may be purchased for $20 per year
($10 per semester) by writing The 
Observer, P.O. Box a. Notre 
Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class 
postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana 
46556. 

The Observer is a member of the 
Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 



Queen·g CagtQe 
anb mb.e JKntglps
just 5 minutes from cam us· 
54533 Terrace Lane 

IF YOU ARE IN NEED OF 
Soulh Bend 
A PERM WE OFFER 

(Across from Martin's on Sl. Rd. 23) 55°0 OFF 
272-0312 WITH THIS COUPON 272-8471 REG. PRICE WITH COUPON 277-1691 25.00 20.00 
30.00 25.00
CLOSED MONDAY 
I

TUES., WED. 8:30-S:30 35.00 30.00 
11tURS., FRI. 8:30-8:30 

40.00 35.00
SAT. 8:30-5:30 . 

LET THE STAFF AT QUEEN'S CASTLE GET YOU READY FOR SCHOOL WITH OUR 
"BACK-TO­SCHOOL SPECIAL" 

H . t ssoo
a1rcu s.•............. Haircut & ooo 
Blow Style •.. .. .. .. .. 51 

The Observer Friday, September 5, 1980 -page 3 
~~ 

Three pitsstillclosed 

Polish miners return to work 
WARSAW, Poland (AP)­ a new union was held. W roclaw  gime of Communist Party  
Three coal mines in Upper  Radio, in a broadcast monitored  Leader Edward Gierek was set­ 
Silesia were still shut down by a  in London, said it was an "in­ tling the strike by 600,000 work­ 
strike over local grievances  formation meeting" on the pur­ ers in northern and central  
yesterday, but most Polish  poses of the new unions and was  Poland.  
miners returned to work after  addressed by Jerzy Piorkowski,  Although PAP did n6t men­ 
winning government pledges of  chairman ofthe joint strike com­ tion the holdouts in Bytom,  
independent unions and work­ mittee in Wroclaw.  sources said those miners had  
free weekends, informed sources  The broadcast said Poirkowski  accepted the basic pact signed  
reported.  urged that the organizational  early Wednesday at the "July  
Negotiations to end strikes by  framework for the new unions be  Manifesto" mine inJastrzebie­ 
an estimated 15,000 miners in  set up as quickly as possible.  promising free trade unions,  
Bytom, six miles north of  The chairman of the existing  work-free weekends, pay boosts  
Katowice, continued into the  W roclaw union controlled by the  pegged to the cost ofliving index  
evening with the holdouts de­ party, Stanislaw Domagala, was  and higher family allowances  
manding changes in manage­ quoted on W roclaw Radio as  startingJanuary 1, 1981.  
ment at the three pits, unofficial  saying he did not think the  Informed sources said the  
but reliable sources said.  official unions would wither  Silesjan strikes ­involving  
In Washington, the AFL-CIO  away.  workers at 32 mines and 27  
estal .lished a special fund to help  "Our membership might de­ related enterprises were called to  
Polish workers enlarge the in­ crease, but we are n'Jt concerned  win specific concessions not  
dependent unions. The Soviet  with numbers," he was quoted as  covered in the government  
Union isued a new attack on  saying.  agreements with Baltic port ship­ 
Western trade union help to  The official Polish news agen­ yard workers. Full details of the  
Poland and accused Western  cy PAP reported yesterday  concessions made to miners have  
unions and governments of med­ morning that miners throughout  not been made public.  
dling in Polish affairs.  Silesia were back at work fol­ The miners have been among  
The Soviet denunciations, car­ lowing the end ofa six-day strike  the nation's best-paid workers,  
ried by the official news agency  by 250,000 coal miners and  with normal earnings about  
Tass, did not mention the AFL­ workers. The miners strike start­ double the national average in­ 
CIO plan.  ed as the embattled Polish re- come of about $166 a month.  
There was a report from  
Wroclaw, 180 miles southwest of  
Warsaw, that the first meeting of  
Freshmen  
surveys  
ready  
All club presidents should pick  
up the results of the Freshman  
Activity Survey. The lists are now  

The Best in 
Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 

for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. Closed Sundays & Holidays 
CHEVY 
CHASE 
RODNEY DANGERFIELD ' 

Caddushack ~ 
/'E) Wall Dl1ney Production•
SHOWS 1:45 SHOWS 2:00 
3:35, 5:25, 7:30, 9:45 

4:00, 6:00, 8:00, 1 0:00 
available in the Student Activi­
ties Office, first floor La Fortune. 


to Notre 
• • Breakaway from the usual and enjoy Notre Dame's most excit­
ing and fastest moving sport. HOCKEY. Student season tickets 
cost $30 for fifteen home games. Or, you can order "First­
... Crown 
Game-of-Series" tickets at $14 or the "Second-Game-of­Series" tickets at $16. Order now to insure your place in the arena. General admission sale for individual games begins
(continued from pagel) 
September 15. No student discount for individual game tickets ifany remain after season ticket sale.
indifferent," Gorman said. 
She and her husband had no 
children, but three generations 
of her sister's family affection­
ately called her "Margee" and 
recently gathered for a 75th 
birthday celebration. 
Her niece, Carol Sotelo, com­pared her aunt's style to that of the flamboyant and outspoken actress, Tallullah Bankhead. It's an apt comparison. 
"Write this down, young 
Captain Co-Captain Co-Captain
man," the former beauty queen 
Jef!Brownschidle Don Lucia Dave Poulin
said in arch tones. "Life has been 
Senior Defenseman Senior Defenseman Junior Center
extremely, I say extremely, 
kind." 
STUDENT TICKET 
Kind or not, Gorman is re­
Home Games
luctant ·to recall the sizzling 
All home games

August day in 1921 when two 
start at 7:30p.m. EST 
reporters came to her family's 
unless otherwise noted. Georgetown home to seek out Tues October 28 Bowling Green
Notre Dame 
their newspaper's first entry in FRI .. NOVEMBER 21 -MICHIGAN TECH 
(8:00p.m.)

Atlantic City's first "Inter-City Ticket Office 
Sal November 22 -M1ch1gan Tech
Beauty Contest." 18 00 p m 1 Selected from hundreds of 283-7354 FRI.. DECEMBER 5 -ILLINOIS 
CHICAGO CIRCLE

photographs mailed to the 
Sal December 6 -lllmo1S Ch1cago Cncle
newspaper by Washington famil-• ••••• • ••••••••••••••••••• 
IBOOpml 

ies, Margee Gorman -just days • • THURS.. DECEMBER 11 -MICHIGAN STATE Fn December 12 M1ch1gan Stale
short ofher 16th birthday-was • NOTRE DAME HOCKEY • 
FRI .. JANUARY 16 -NORTH DAKOTA
found in the cool shade of a • • 
Sat January 17 -North Dakota
nearby park, shooting marbles in • STUDENT TICKET APPLICATION • FRI.. JANUARY 23 -DENVER 
Sat January 24 -Denver
the dirt. • #. of Student Tickets REMIT BY CHECK OR MONEY ORDER ONLY TO: • 
FRI.. FEBRUARY 20 -COLORADO
She confirmed the story in the • University of Notre Dame • 
COLLEGE

interview, but added with an 15-GameSeason Ticket@ $30 Hockey Ticket Committee 
Sat . February 21 -Colorado Collegeelegant wave, "I wasn't a tom-• __ First-Gam&-of-Series Ticket@ $14 Notre Dame. IN 46556 • FRI .. FEBRUARY 27 -WISCONSIN 
boy, you know. I loved all the • __ Second-Gam&-of-SeriesTicket@ $16 NAME ______________ • Sat February 28 -W1sconsm 
• The "'First-Game-of-Series'' ticket covers admission
b •
oys." Information on distribution of student ADDRESS-------------to the seven games in bold print. The "'Second-Game-A few weeks later, the pixyish • hockey tickets will be·forthcoming in the • of-Series"' ticket covers admission to the' eight 
CITY _____ STATE ___ZIP ____ • . J • OBSERVER. remaining games in the home schedule. 
----(c,-on-tin-ue._u_on-pa--ge_l_B)_ •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••___________ 

~---~~ ~ -~-~~ -~-----~~------­
~~------­
The Observer Friday, September 5, 1980 -page 4 
Somethingfor everyone 

WSND lists'80-'81 programming 
By Louis Breaux 

WSND radio stations are pre­
pared to give listeners all they've 
got this semester. 

Returning this season will be 
the highly successful WSND-AM 
"Talk It Up" show, which pro­
vides listeners with an outlet for 
airing complaints or compli­
ments. The show is just one 
featured that radio stations 
WSND-AM and WSND-FM will 
have in their programming for 
the school year. 

Station Manager Kevin 
Gessler heads the stations. 
WSND-AM is located at 64khz 
on the dial, and WSND-FM is 
located at 88.9 mhz. Both are 
broadcast from campus-atop 
the tower of O'Shaughnessy 
Hall. 

The program director for the 
AM station is Mike Tanner while 
the FM station's is Matthew 
Bedics. The staff includes John 
Pinter, news editor, Bill 
Dempsey, sports editor, Tom 
Nessinger, head of the prod­
uction department, John 
Garino, head of engineering, 
Rick Dohring, sales manager 
and Bridget Berry, head of 
public relations. 

WSND-AM is dedicated to playing the best in student-ori­ented rock music. The station also plays a variety of jazz and soul music during special pro­grams. 
Besides the regular program­ming, the feature shows include "AM This Morning," a news, weather, and sports program at 7 
a.m. Monday through Friday for the early riser. "Talk It Up" will be aired on Mondays from 11-12 
p.m. and will feature guests. 

Sundays from 7-9 p.m. music, from the recent past will be played on "Believe In Magic." Also on Sundays from 2-4 p.m., "Block Party" can be heard. "Block Party" is a time when callers can request some songs from a specific artist, and the station will play those plus a few more in a miniconcert. 
"Jazz Lives" will be played on Sundays from 4-6 p.m. and on Fridaysfrom9-11 p.m. For more jazz and soul music also listen to the "Total Music bxperience" on Sundays from 9-11 p.m. 
Daily features on WSND-AM include campus events broadcast every hour on the half hour and also an in depth campus events program called "What's Happening?" running Mondays thru Fridays at 7:30, 10:30, and 
12:30 p.m. Album hours are held Monday through Thursday at midnight and a special "Super Gold Album Hour" on Sundays at midnight. 
There is also a nucleus of '>ports shows planned with the 'Dan Devine" show one to one ,md a half hours before kickoff and "Open Line," a Notre Dame sports talk show held one hour before the football games. "Pro Football Report" can be heard on Sundays at 6:30 p.m. ·'Speaking of Sports," a talk show, will be broadcast on Sunday, Tuesday, and Thursday from 11-1 ~p.m. For the latest in campus sports tune into "Campus Corner" Sunday from 6-6:30 p.m. WSND-AM also will cover Notre Dame football basketball, and possibly hockey. 
WSND-FM is the campus fine arts station and plays classical music. The station has no com­mercial breaks and Gessler com­mented, "This enables us to have 
entertainment along with educa­The afternoon concerts con­tion." The emphasis of WSND­tinue till 5 p.m. FM is more towards the com­At 5 p.m. is the Taffelmusik, munity because the station German for table music. The broadcasts over a 35 mile radius. show plays short pieces from the 
The programming for FM be­baroque period. Special gins at 7 a.m. with "Daybreak," a Programming of live operas and show that features short classical symphonies begins at 7 p.m. pieces with news every half hour. At 9 a.m. the morning concerts Then at 8 p.m. comes the begin. Then at noon comes the "piece de resistance" with taped comprehensive news. performances ofgreat orchestras 
On Monday at 12:15 p.m. is the such as the Boston Pops, the half hour show "buropean New York Philharmonic, and the Perspective," which gives the Chicago Symphony. At midnight european view of u.s. politics comes a change of pace with and events. At the same time on Nocturn Night Flight. W ednedsay the "Cambridge A number of deejays will be Forum, a talk show that deals returning and also the station will with rarely discussed topics for take some new members chosen one hour, will broadcast. by auditions held this week. 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building Attention: Graduating Students 
/ 
IN ORDER THAT YOU MAY PLAN FOR SCHEDULED PLACEMENT ACTIVITIES AND SERVICES, INCLUDING ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS WITH EMPLOYERS AND GRADUATE/LAW 
SCHOOL REPRESENTATIVES, THE 
Manuals, Eaployer-s, How-To, Int1!.t'Vf.f!'ol Tedmique~, Employ­ment Outlook, Registration and Sign-Up Procedures, Questions and Answers 
Placeaent Bureau Open Houso· 
Sip;n-t'p for ~·trRt Week of Interviews 
Placement Interviews Bef(tn 
FOLLOWING HAVE BEEN SCHEDULED: 
AI'OITORTUH--CENTt:R FOR COU.£C.F./DlSCIPLIN£ CONTINUING EDUCATION 
Arts and Letters 
Finance, Mllnage~~~ent, 7:00 !'Ill, Tue11., Sept. q 
!'111rketin~~; 

Account<~~ncy 7:00 pm, !.'tool.. Sept. 10 Engtnet'rln~~; and Sclen<'f' 7:00pm, Thurs., Sept. II MBA 9:110 !!!• Frl., Sept. 12 Sept. IS-19, Honda~· throuJth Fri.Jay, 8:00 aa-4:)0 p11. 
~··pt. H-11, Hun.Jay thraugh Tlmn1d.w, l{:OQ 11111-4: JO pm. (ACCOUNTANCY MAJORS) 
Sept. 2:!-2!i, Monday throu}lli Thursd;1y, K:OIJ ;1111-4:10 pm. (ALl. tlTitF.R MAJORS) 
'H: lll ·1111 1 Wl'dnesday, Sept ..lllbC'r 17 rnr An:ount:ancy -jorH 
!!:JO am, ,.,;onday, September 29 ror all other -jon and .,;wh dav fnllowin~ accordin~ 1n thl• !lf'hedulc listrd in llw rtM'<'IIIl'nt ~lanuill IIJR0-111, 
Friends wishyou luck on a bigexam. Gooil &iends stick around to seehowyou did. 
They say they were just hanging around killing time and by the way, "How did you do?" You tell them a celebration is in order and that you're buying the beer. "Look," one of them says, "Ifyou did that well, buy us something special." Tonight, let it be LOwenbriiu. 

r-------------------------------------------------------~---~---~~­
The Observer Friday, September 5, 1980 -page 5 




a o.
I 

Kickoffthe9"8with Saturday brunchatftppecanoe Place. 
Kick the next game day off on the right foot at our special pre-game Saturday brunch from 10 AM to 2 PM. We'll put you in the winning spirit with fluffy omelettes prepared to your order, hand-carved steamship rounds of beef and ham,
1.00 OFF! 
fresh salads and fresh fruits. Plus all 
any regular album or tape purchase with this coupon. the champagne you can drink. limit 1 per person. Expires September 15, 1980 Just $8.95 for adults and 
$4.95 for children buys all
•Open unti110:00 every 
• ND/SMC checks cashed you can eat. Now there's a over purchose··n lmt'uU'n· 
deal that's hard to beat. 

· • Record crat·es •.fiiXP~~~~~~~I.i,:,,;,, .••.•...,.•••. River 
620 West Washington, South Bend. Reservations available. Phone: 234-9077 
©Continental Restaurant S<,i;tem~.·l<JHO 
_......,_, 

The lakeside paths are scenic walkways in the fall [photo by } ohn Mac or]. 
EPA will inspect cars 
By Lee Mitgang Associated Press Writer 
MANHASSET, N.Y.-Out­side North Hempstead Town Hall, a man demonstrated a most technical-looking blue box with a hose snaking into an auto exhaust pipe. 
Inside town Hall, that blue box-which tells whether cars are polluting too much-was the center ofa fierce argument; an argument that is simmering in states from California toNew York. 
It involves the federal Clean Air Act Amendments of 1977, which gave the environmental Protection Agency (EPA) the power to force 29 high-pollut­ing states to start auto exhaust inspection programs over the next two years. 
Under federal law, the air in those states must be 25 percent cleaner by 1987. 
To the consumer, it means pulling up to a state inspection center or filling station each year, having his car hooked to a testing machine and, if it's pol­luting too much, being forced to repair it. 
The clean air amendments gave the r.PA enormous en­forcement clout: power to cut off hundreds of millions of highway, sewage and air treat­ment dollars to states which refuse to set up inspection programs. 
The money threat is forcing state and local politicians to pass laws· to set up inspection programs that will hit their motorist constituents in the pocketbook. 
To put it mildly, many state legislators are in a fighting mood. 
"It's absolutely the greatest consumer ripoff I've ever seen," said New York state senator Linda Winikoff, who, along with other state legislat­ors here, is furious that Gov. Hugh Carey has agreed to start an inspection prog,am in Jan­uary. She says she wishes Carey had called the EPA's bluff on funds sanctions. 
This past weekend, one state -California -finally did and may come to regret it. 
On Sunday, the last day ofthe legislature's 1980 session, the California Senate rejected a bill which would have committed the Legislature to passing a law setting up an inspection prog­ram. 
It was one of many such bills proposed and defeated this year, despite the promise by J:o.PA administrator Douglas Castle that his agency would cut off more than $850 million in federal aid to the state. 
The J:o.PA wants inspections conducted in Los Angeles-Ven­tura, San Francisco, Sacramen­to, San Diego and Fresno County. If funds are cut off-a procedure which will take at least 90 days-those five areas will lose $389 million in sewage treatment constructions funds, $457 million in transportation funds and $5.2 million ear­marked for clean air programs. 

States have two basic options, with two deadlines. They have until December 31, 1982, to set up centralized programs, run by the states themselves or by state-hired contractors. If they choose decentralized prog­rams, where licensed private service stations perform the inspections, they have until December 31, 1981. 
In states the J:o.PA has deter­mined must have inspection programs, the laws will not af­fect all drivers-only those in areas of high population and pollution. In New York, for in­stance, only the nine counties in the New York City region-
would have a mandatory pro­gram. 
Of the 29 states with serious air quality problems, only two -California and Ken­tucky-have not. passed nec­essary state laws yet. 
The states of Rhode Island and New Jersey, along with Cincinnati, Ohio; Portland, Oregon; Las Vegas and Reno, Nevada; Phoenix and Tucson, Arizona; and Los Angeles-Ven­tura in California already have emission inspection programs in operation. 
In Portland, J:o.PA tests found a 34 percent drop in carbon monoxide and a 24 percent re­duction in emissions of hydro­carbons, the key ingredients in smog. 
noe 

The Observer Friday, September 5, 1980 -page 6 
For 25th anniversary 

RCA promotes Elvis edition 

LOS ANGELES (AP)-The Elvis Presley album that's tearing up the record charts will never go gold-not because its $69.95 price tag is scaring off the faith­ful, but because RCA Records planned it that way. 
To commemorate the 25th anniversary ofElvis' signing with RCA, the company decided to put out a deluxe, limited-edition package. And so there are only 250,000 copies of the silver­-boxed, eight-record collection in existence worldwide -and that figure includes tape pack­ages. 
The sets-which also include a 20-page booklet ofpictures and commentary-are numbered, much the same way an artist numbers works reproduced in limited quantities. And in a way, that's just what "Elvis Aron Presley" is: a work of art, an audio portrait of "The King," not just through his songs but through interviews, concert pat­ter and studio outtakes. 
There are, ofcourse, generous 1 helpings of the big records-i "All Shook Up," "Don't Be. Cruel," "Heartbreak Hotel," "Hound Dog," to name a few that head the lost ofPresley's 38 Top 10 singles as recorded by Billboard magazine. (The Beatles had 33.) 
But although the album in­cludes recordings of 18 of those 38 smashes, it is by no means a "greatest hits" collection. 
There's Elvis singing gospel 

("How Great Thou Art"), count-An ND couple watches the sun set over the lake [photo by ry ("Funny How the Time Slipsjohn Macorl On By"), patriotic (America the 
l.h:::auutul"'), and ,:,-;::;·, ~.:.:.de: 
("Yesterday," "Get Back"). Assembling the collection has occupied a year and a half of the 
life of RCA's resident blvis

Campaign heats up 
WASHINGTON (AP)­While Ronald Reagan accused the Carter administration yester­day of playing politics with national security, President Carter got the backing of the AFL-CIO and John Anderson received financial news that might make him a major con­tender this fall. 
Carter, whose Mideast policies received scathing criticism from Reagan a day earlier, was pre­pared to defend those policies before the same Jewish forum, the B'nai B'rith, ina late-evening speech. Anderson spoke to the group at midday and accused Carter of making political hay out of Middle bast develop­
ments. 
The Federal Election 
Commission gave Anderson's presidential candidacy its boost by ruling that he will be eligible for federal campaign financing if he gets at least 5 percent of the vote in the Nov. 4 election and meets some other requirements. 
That decision was crucial to 
Anderson's abilitv to compete with Democrat· Carter and Republican Reagan, who are 
activities night

receiving $29.4 million each for their campaigns. The Commission held, in effect, that 
MQIJ\ T C'VTYT' 8 
Anderson's campaign organiza-'1." J.I..:,L .1.. , tion is the functional equivalent 
of a political party and thus he is 
7-1 0 min Stepan 1 Center 
(continued on page B) ,..____..._________________... 
LOCK'S LIQUOR WORLD 
lllS South Bend Ave. 177-3611 





ALL STUDENTS 
ESPECIAlLY..FRESHMAN!I I 
. are urgedto attend 
,r.) \ 
authority, Joan Deary, but it probably would have taken any­, one else a lot longer. 
"I've been working with< Elvis Presley, actually, in various cap­acities, for 25 years. I came to RCA the same year as Elvis did, 1955," Deary says, sitting in a modest office crammed with Elvis memorabilia -posters, paintings, calendars and card­board cutouts. 
When Presley died three years ago, RCA asked her to start compiling a complete catalog of his tapes-a project she has 

SENIOR TRIP 



REMINDER!!! 
·$365 will be due on Sept.8,9 & 10, along with 
' roompicks More information will be mailed 
to you at the end ofthe week. 
.• 
·Kentucky Tavern 
80prooi~ 


Bourbon $55' liter 

collection 'imes: laforfune MTW 11-2 lemans M &T 6-8 W7-9 

ADyone wit!'! questions call Anne-1669 Douna4-l-5103o 
Mike-1606 Martha-4-1-5236 
been working on almost full time since then. She figures she has yet to reach the halfway mark. 
"My criteria in doing this al­bum was to use as much un­released material as I possibly could, because I did not want to give these fans something that they already had. And I did not pick my performances for tech­nical perfection. I picked them for a specific feel that they add for the over-all, to show the professionalism, to show the warmth, to show the humor," she concluded. 


You maybephysically fit now... 


butwillwu 
be sure of 

insurability·at40? 
New York Life's Policy 
Purchase Option guaran­
tees the right to build fi­
nancial security lateran­
regardless of future health 
or occupation. 
See me soon for details. 
MIKEBLAIR 
New York Life Insurance Company 
108N. Main Suite 
~rBend Jnd .. · 400 
-234-5600­
• 

.------------------·-~---~---~-~ ~--~~-----~------~ ­
The Observer Friday, September 5, 1980 -page 7 After 6years underground-




Abbie Hoffman surfaces 
New York (AP)-Abbie Hoffman ended six years as as fugitive yesterday, eluding wait­ing reporters and photographers to surrender to the state nar­cotics prosecutor on a charge of selling cocaine. He was released without bail within a few hours. 
Hoffman, a leader of the anti­war protest movement in the 1960's, had gotten maximum publicity out ofthe prelude to his surrender. 
But shortly before 9 a.m., the graying, 43-year-old founder of the Yippies turned himself in at the state office building, entering through a side entrance. He was accompanied by his new wife, Johanna Lawrenson. 

At the bail hearing, Criminal pB!!lS!IJSBSSSSSSS•LS'I•i."S'!!•ISs........,...-ll?l 
CourtJudgeWilliamMiltontold
Hoffman that he had decided to 
release him without bail. There was a scattering of ap­
plause. Hoffman turned to his friends and relatives among the 1oo spectators, grinned and flashed a V-sign. He was then led out a side door, again evading 

rer~r:=~~esting that no bail be 
set, Hoffman's lawyer, Gerald Lefcourt, noted that Hoffman

----------------------1 had turned himself in voluntarily 
Faithful students trudge off to the 'brary despite the early and said "the court cannot look morning rain [photo by }obn Macor]. lightly on such an act." 
I 
a 
SUNDAY MASSES AT SACRED HEART CHURCH 

MONDAYNIGH 
campus
miniStry 
Rev. Lee Monroe, c.s.c. Rev. John Fitzgerald, c.s.c. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c. Rev. William Toohey, c.s.c. Rev Peter D. Rocca, c.s.c. 
The prosecutor had asked Milton to set bail at $100,000 secured bond or $10,000 cast for Hoffman. 
As a bail-jumper on a 197 3 charge of peddling cocaine to undercover cops, Hoffman was run through the routine ofbeing printed, mugged and booked before being taken to the judge. Hehadbeenfreeon$50,000bail when he skipped out early in 1974 rather than face trial and possible life imprisonment if convicted. 
Authorities maintained no special deal had been made in advance, but sources have said Hoffman would be allowed to plead to a reduced charge at a 
14 FILMS-$10.00

5:15 pm Saturday 9:00...om Sunday 
7:30pm

10:30 am Sunday 
12:15 pm Sunday 
CITIZEN KANE

7: 15 pm vespers 
SeptemberS 

.--.. VOLUNTEERS NEEDED 
~r­~ • ~ •INFODREMSAKTION •NAURRESAING •GIFT SHOP 
For Further Information
1 

Contact: Director of Public Relations 
south bend osteopathic
hospital 

2515 E~ JEFFERSON BLVD SOUTH BEND IN~ 46615 (219) 288-83 11 
J 
j 
j 
Washington Hall 
DAYS OF HEAVEN September IS Engineering Auditorium 
(note time change_: 6:00, S:30, II:OOpm) 
POTEMKIN September ll Washington Hall 
THE CRIME OF MONSIEUR LANGE September 29 Washington Hall 
THE SCARLET EMPRESS OctoberS Washington Hall 
STEAMBOAT BILL, JR. October 13 Washington Hall 

subsequent hearing. Hoffman didnotenterapleaatThursday's bail hearing. 
Hoffman had gotten cold feet twice before in discussions about surrendering and he was "a little nervous" about it Thursday, said his brother, Jack, who met with reporters at the state building. 
He hated his life on the run and longed to return to stir up campus activism again, Hoffman said in a forthcoming magazine article. 
Hoffman lived most of his fugitive years as a free-lance writer and ecology activist in Pineview, N.Y., a tiny com­munity in the Thousand Islands of the St. Lawrence River. 
I 

j 
general admission-$1.00 
HIS GIRL FRIDAY November 10 Engineering Auditorium 
AMAN ESCAPED 
November 17 Washington Hall 
PROVIDENCE Novemberl4 Washington Hall 

TWO OR THREE THINGS IKNOWABOUTHER December I Ubrary Auditorium 
CHINATOWN 
DecemberS 
Washington Hall 

• 

The Observer 
L-----~====~----~: 


Pinocchio's Pizza Parlor 
Luncheon Specials Weekdays 
BeerSpecials Every Nite­8:00to 9:00$.25Mug $1.25 Pitcher 
~...........................................-: 

~This Coupon 
~Good for One Pizza. $2.00off'any Large Pizza 
:$1.00offany 
ISmallPina 
,................................................ 
~ ~ 


We Deliver ~ 
4~

l-

Hours 

11:00-12:00 Mon-Thurs 11·:00-1 :30Fri-Sat 4:00-11 :OOSun 
lron our Wide S~cr~=~ ~ Emmons V~ . (j~ L ~ 1' .
'lt1 .!S Juniper 
Friday, September 5, 1980 -page 8 



Young Clarence Darrow follows in footsteps ofnamesake 
By Associated Press 
ROCK ISLAND, Ill. -If he had it to do over, Clarence Darrow would jump at the chance to repeat the famed Scopes monkey trial. 
He said so, just the other day. 
"Sure I would. That was the trial of the century," said Clarence Darrow, descendant and namesake of the celebrated Chicago lawyer who more than 
· a half century ago made history . by defending a teacher's right to teach evolution in Tennessee. 
Trials of the century come around infrequently, so the younger Darrow has not yet had his chance. He has had his moments, however. 
harlier this year, some fun­damentalist preachers had a bill introduced in the Illinois Gen­eral Assembly to require public schools to teach the biblical story of creation along with evolution. Darrow, a member of the House, prepared to lead the opposition. 
"Actually, I didn't object to the teaching of the biblical story of creation if they'd offer all the others, too," he said. 
The preachers had only Gen­esis in mind and the bill died in 
; committee. Still, the thought of a modern-day Clarence Darrow facing the foes of evolution in 1980 had folks buzzing during this year's Clarence Darrow birthday party in Chicago, an annual celebration thatsurvives 123 years after the fact. 
Young Clarence was this year's keynote speaker. And he 
l 
was in Hyde Park in March to mark the anniversary of the scattering ofDarrow's ashes ac­cording to his last wish. 
Darrow the younger never met Darrow the elder, who died in 1938. His link is through his grandfather, a cousin of the famed lawyer. 
Carrying the name likely has helped in politics, young Clar­ence is quick to admit, but it has had its drawbacks. Secretaries at Chicago law firms inevitably are flustered when Clarence Darrow calls. Some don't be­lieve him. John Marshall Law School didn't even respond a· few years ago when he re­quested an application. 
"I later learned they thought it was a joke," he said. 
Darrow went to Kent College instead, turning from social work to law in 1971 and to politics three years later. He has made a name for himself, bat­tling the utilities unmercifully, championing labor, defending 
the poor and elderly.  
As he grows older, he  sees  
more  similarities·  with  his­ 
namesake.  

"He was a lawyer and aDem­ocrat, and he was in politics, a member of the Illinois General Assembly, in fact. 
"Sometimes somebody will say I even look like him," he said. "But we are different men and this is a different time. In no way do I have his speaking abilities or his wit." 
But each has made his way to Dayton, Tenn., the older Oar­row in 1925 for the trial, the 

GRAND OPENING 
of 




NEW HORIZONS 
Offering you quality MENSWEAR 
SHIRTS  SUITS  
COATS  PANTS  
HATS  SHOES  
ETC·  

10% OFF ENTIRE STOCK 
for NO students &staff 
1.0. required 
over 3,000 Square Feet of Quality Brands You Know: 

BROOKFIELD 

SATURDAY 
DON MART CAMPUS 
GLEN OAK FRENCH STAR 
KENNINGTON ZEPPELIN JEANS 

CAREER CLUB 

ACROSS FROM THE THEATRE, SCOTISDALE MALL, Ph,: 291-9565 
younger last Christmas as a kind of pilgrimage. 
Darrow stood in the court­room with its worn flooring and vaulted ceiling that once echo­ed with the oratory of the artful Darrow and the silver tongue of William Jennings Bryan. It­looked the same as it did during the trial, he said. 
"I signed the register," he said. Clarence Darrow, Illinois. 
And then he left. 
. ..Campaign 
(continued from page 6) 
entitled to the money as a "party nominee." While Anderson will not re­
I 
cieve any money until after the "1 election, the decision makes borrowing easier for him. 
· If Anderson reaches the 5 percent minimum, he will re­ceive about $3 million from the federal government. He would get $10.5 million ifhe recieves 15 percent of the vote, his current level in public opinion polls. 
Reagan on Wednesday night told B'nai B'rith, the· Jewish service organization, that Carter's weak policies have put Israel in danger. Anderson also attacked the President's hand­ling of Middle hast pt;oblems. 
"The Carter administration has allowed an oily sword of Damocles to continue over our heads," Anderson said. 
The stepan Chemistry Building is well on its way to completion [photo by john Macor]. 
HELP WANTED NOBLE ROmANS PIZZA 
Gtanget Stote only ( actoss ftom Unlvetslty Patk malli j Both young men and 'women 
Patt time pizza maketS .. Patt time walttesses (must be 21 yts. old) 
Call Kathy 

-~ Qt277-5300 

~.---~------­



The Irish defe'i!e, led by ends Scot/ Zettek (left No. 70) and john Hankert!:wrll lead the Notre Dame defense in an attempt 
to put heavy pressure on Purdue signal-caller Mark Herrmann, just like . .. wei~ see page 12 (photo by Phil Stauder). 

Irish aim.· Get to Herrmann 
by Brian Beglane 
Sports Wrtter 
The question of who will own 
territorial bragging rights to the 
Shillelagh after tomorrow's Notre 
Dame-Purdue clash is up in the air­
literally. 
The traveling trophy has resided in West Lafayette after last year's 28-22 Boilermaker triumph. One of the keys to bringing the trophy back to South Bend rests upon the shoulders of an experienced Irish defense. It must stop Purdue quarterback and Heisman Trophy hopeful Mark Herrmann. 
"There's no question about it," said Irish defensive coordinator Joe Yonto. "We have got to stop their main threat-Herrmann. He is an experienced quarterback and he reads the defense well. 
"We have been concentrating with our defensive line on the pass rush, and that certainly is the key to stopping him. We'll be out to disrupt his timing more than anything else." 
The task of the pass rush falls on the shoulders ofthree seniors-ends Scott Zettek and John Hankerd and tackle Don Kidd-and junior tackle Pat Kramer. They comprise a starting defensive line which has gained the preseason respect of many teams across the country. 
"We've worked very intensely on the pass rush in preseason," says Kramer, "with this year's exclama­tion point on Herrmann. He has developed into an all-around quar­terback and there is only one way to stop him-prepare for everything. 
"We'll be working to try and control the line, keep him in the pocket and not let him run. But they have a good ground game which hurt us last year. We've got to stop the pass and the run." 
The matchup of the lines on both sides of the field should be anin­terestingone. The Irish defensive front and the Boiler offensive wall tip the scales at an even average of 6-4, 245 pounds. 
"The question mark of our whole team is line play," said Purdue coach Jim Young. "At the skilled positions we have good, experienced players. But the lines are our main areas of concern and that includes pass protection." 
While Y onto expectshis front four to key on pressuring Herrmann, he sees a danger in over-emphasizing the pass rush. And with good reason, if you look at the second half scoring breakdown from last year's contest. 
"We must avoid the one-on-one confrontation," noted Yonto. "We cannot over-compensate in trying to stop the passing game. We have to visualize what's happening and keep their ground game in check. But the preference of the line will be in getting to Herrmann." 
Purdue turned a 20-7 third quarter deficit last year into a 21-20 ad­vantage with two short touchdown runs by Wally Jones, and then iced the game with a Herrmann-to-Bart Burrell TD pass in the last period. The Irish cannot afford such a repeat performance by the defense against an attack which has done nothing but grow from last year. 
"Zettek and Hankerd both are the leaders for the defensive line," says Yonto, "and a lot will hinge on whether Zettek has his quickness back (from knee trouble last year). But we feel with freshmen like Mansel Carter (6-8, 225 pounds) and Tim Marshall, and others like Joe Gramke, we will be able to keep the players fresh out there. 
"All in all, the line is experienced and that should tell." 
MARK HERRMANN VS. NOTRE DAME 
Comp-Att-lnt Vds. TO 

1977 24-51-4 351 3 1978 15-30-2 161 0 1979 14-20-1 158 2 
53-101-7 670 5 
1l1ark Herrmann 

---------------. 
Purdue stalwart ready to test Irish secondary 
by Michael Ortman Associate Sports Edt!or 

They are the last line of defense in football. 
When a running back slips through the line and 
by the linebackers, or when the quarterback 
lofts the ball downfield, a coach must then put 
all his faith in his defensive backs to keep the 
opponent out of the end zone. 
Dan Devine has a lot offaith in his secondary. But then that's easy when his last line ofdefense is the deepest, most experienced unit on the field. 
If there has been one unit that has been reasonably set since last spring, it's been the secondary. And with Purdue's Mark Herrmann and the potent Boilermaker offense looming on the horizon, it is a definite plus to have at least four guys back there who know each other inside and out. 
To refresh the memories of Irish fans, this year's crew consists of Steve Cichy, Tom Gibbons, Dave Duerson and John Krimm and, oh yes, don't forget Rod Bone. Fans of a year ago can easily remember how helpful the freshmen Duerson and Bone were when the four regulars (graduated Dave Waymer was the other) shuttling in and out of the doctor's office. 
Add to that list freshmen standouts Chris Brown and Stacey Toran (the Duerson and Bone of 1980) and the coaches have seven defensive backs that they wouldn't hesitate to play at ail. 
Bone, who played in nine games last year, starting two, won the most valuable defensive player honors in last spring's Blue-Gold game with 11 tackles plus an interception. 
Duerson started seven of the nine-games in which he played last fall, replacing Waymer and Krimm while their injuries mended. In those nine games he picked off a pair of passes, recovered a fumbles, made 24 tackles and even 
returned 12 punts averaging a whopping 17.4 
yards per runback. 

Facing Herrmann again on Saturday carries a special significance for Duerson. His alma mater, Muncie Northside High School, and that of Herrmann, Carmel High, were, and still are, bitter rivals. 
Although the Reisman hopeful Herrmann is two y~ars ahead of Duerson, the two faced off once during their prep days. In that contest, Duerson won the battle (two interceptions), but Herrmann won the game. 
Last year, Duerson made his Notre Dame debut versus the Boilers in West Lafayette, replacing the fallen Waymer in the second half. But once again, it was the quarterback's team over the cornerback's team, 28-22. 
Gibbons, the elder statesman at 21, joins junior linebacker Bob Crable and senior center John Scully as the 1980 Irish tri-captains. This season marks the third straight as a regular for the senior aerospace engineering major from Alexandria, Va. "Things have been going verrry well," Gibbons said with enthusiasm when asked about the unit's progress thus far. "We're getting to know each other better and better every day-knowing each others strengths and weaknesses and how to help each other out when somebody needs it." 
Coaches usually tend to be more cautious in their evaluations, trying not to put added pressure on his players. Defensive backfield coachJimJohnson is very happy with what he's seen thus far, yet he added, "I think we (the secondary) need a game under our belts. You· re really not 100% sure what you have until you've played your first game. That being the case, I'd say aggressiveness is the biggest unknown at this point." 
(coninued on page 10) 


The Irish Extra Friday, September 5, 1980 -page 10 
All-American matchup 






Cichy's not-so-simple job 
hy (:rari; C'hval Sports Wrtter 
You'll have to pardon Steve Cichy if he isn't all caught up in the Irish Quarterback Sweepstakes. It's not that he isn't interested, but Notre Dame's junior strong s~fety has enough trouble of his own. 
He is under no illusions; he doesn't have to prepare for five different quarterbacks. Cichy doesn't have to worry about facing a team with a flanker and a punter who can throw the ball, but maybe a quarterback who can't. 
His job is simple-stop Purdue's All­America tight end Dave Young. No tricks, no last-minute changes or intrigue. Just put the clamps on Young. 
By his own admission, Cichy will have to improve upon his peformance in Purdue's 1979 come-from-behind victory. In his first three games last year, Cichy faced three All­America tight ends-Doug Marsh (Michigan, 1979), Young (Purdue, 1980) and Mark Brammer (Michigan State, 1978). 
"I thought I played pretty well against the other two guys," says Cichy, "but I didn't h<lVe a very good game against Young. I guess I have a little incentive this year." 
Cichy may have had his troubles handling the big tight end in West Lafayette, but he profited from what proved to be a long afternoon for the youthful Irish secondary. 
The Boilermakers usc a pro-type offense, and the tight end is one of their main weapons. Purdue quarterback Mark Herrmann loves to use Young to pick apart a defense, and he is very good at it. 
"Last year they ran a lot of 'drags' across the middle. In that situation, they've got the whole field to look at, and you're looking out for a corner or an out pattern," explains Cichy. "This year, when we're in a man-to­man, I can't play his outside shoulder. I'll have to honor the drag until he hurts me outside." 
Young possesses all the physical attributes necessary to be a top-flight tight end, and he makes the most of them. 
"He has such great size that sometimes even when you have great coverage, if the ball is thrown perfectly, he's able to shield the ball with his body and make the catch," shrugs Cichy. "I would compare him with Ken MacAfee-he's not a great runner after he gets the ball, but he catches eveything that comes at him." 
Lest you get the idea that the Cichy ­Young confrontation will be another David vs. Goliath classic, though, keep in mind that Cichy ranked fourth among the '79 Irish with 67 tackles. His performance was impressive enough to earn him considera-' tion as an Associated Press honorble mention All-American. 
Cichy sat out Notre Dame's final game of the season with a shoulder injury, and nearly missed the entire 1979 schedule when a chronic back injury flared up, but the Fargo, 
N. D., native reports that he will open the 1980 campaign at full strength. And he gives a lot of the credit to Notre Dame's deep and talented tight end corps. 
"We've got some really great tight ends," he agrees, "and we do a lot of one-on-one work during group sessions. Anytime you're going up against people like Dean Masztak and Nick Vehr, it's got to help. 
"It's been a long three weeks of practice, but I thin,k we're ready to go." 
And it's not too difficult to tell that Steve Cichy is ready for his second crack at Dave Young. 


Around~ully 
Inexperienced line awaits opener 
Bv Mike Ricmrdi 
Sport.r lf'r~i'er 
One ofthe brightest statistics logged by the 1979 Fighting Irish football team was the eight quarterback sacks allowed by .the offensive line. If the 1980 blockers are to equal that impres­sive figure, they will need some veteran play from some inexperienced perfor­mers. 
Offt•nsive line coaches Brian Boulac and Bill Meyers had their first bit ofbad luck when one of their two old-timers, Sl'ninr tarkle Tim Huffman, suffered a stress fracture in his left ankle. The three-time letterman and all-America candidate will be replaced tomorrow by Bob Burger, a 6-2,240 pound"senior from Cincinnati, Ohio. Squaring off against Boilermaker guard Jim Mooney most of the afternoon, Burger's task will be made doubly difficult because of the pressure of replacing an All-American. 
"We're very confident in Bobby Burger," emphasized Meyers, who maintains that the offensive line will surprise a few people in spite of their lack of game experience. 

"I think our kids are ready and they'll handle themselves well in any situa­tion." 
Lining up next to Burger on the right side of the line will be junior tackle Phil Pozderac. The trench matchup between the 6-9, 260 pound Pozderac and his Purdue opponent, all-American tackle Calvin Clark, just might be one of the game's key in­dividual battles. 
"Clark is a great player," Pozderac said last week. "I'm looking forward to playing against him because playing against a good player makes me play better as well." 
On the other side of the line, the Irish feature a pair of sophomores in tackle Mike Shiner and guard Randy Ellis. Shiner, at 6-7, 250 pounds, is described by Meyers as possessing good ability, excellent size and im­proving every day. Texas native Ellis is much like the rest of his young line mates; big, strong and possessing all the tools. But, as with Shiner, Pozderac and Burger, inexperience is again the question. 
There is no question about the man in the middle. Senior captainJohn Scully is receiving preseason accolades every day and was labeled by head coach Dan Devine, "probably the best offensive center in the country." He will have the double duty of handling the middle of the Purdue defense and serving as the wizened veteran on a field with plenty of rough talent. 
"I expect our line to rise to the occasion," Meyers predicts. "I think the challenge of opening against a power like Purdue at home will keep us up. They don't know a lot about us and we don't know that much about them." 
That situation-should change to­morrow. 

.. .secondary 
(continued from page ~U 

There are many unanswered questions for the Irish at this point, but then that's always the case prior to the season opener. One thing is certain though. He'll be examining the Notre Dame secondary tomorrow afternoon on every play. Mark Herrmann could easily be consi­dered the finest quarterback on the Irish schedule this season, and yet does not seem to be that cloud ofawe hovering the practice field. 
"You can't get uptight about facing Herrmann," said Gibbons. "We know what our job is and we have to do it. Ifyou get uptight, you start making mistakes." 
"I wouldn't say our guys are uptight, right now," addedJohnson. "I think anxious is a better word. They've got that certain amount of confidence that you need, and they're anxious to getdown to business against one ofthe best." 
But what is it that set Mark Herrmann apart from the rest? Johnson points to three factors that make the 6-5, 194-pound signal caller so special. 
''He's always had a good touch-that's been consistent for three years. But as he's matured, he's learned to find that second and third receiver much better. He doesn't force passes on covered receivers any more. The other big thing about him is the way he handles pressure. It just doesn't bother him as much as it used to. 
"He's basically a drop back passer-not so much a scrambler. When he was a-freshman he threw a lot ofinterceptions, but not any more." 
The general consensus seems to be that the key to stopping Herrmann from ramming the ball down the defensive throat lies in the trenches. That seemed to be where last year's Irish-Boiler contest was decided and this one should be very little different. 
"I think the key is to establish our defense early," says Duerson. "The line has to pressure him into making mistakes. He often folds under pressure." "If he has time to find his second or third receiver," adds Johnson, "he can kill us." 

---· ·-------·-··---_______..,.._ 
The Irish Extra Friday, September 5, 1980 -page 11 
Irish fans to waich an aerial act? 
by Chris Needles 
Sports Writer 
In 1979, the three of them combined to catch 77 passes, gaining a total of 1504 yards, for a Notre Dame offense built around a consensus All-American tail­back. 
Now, the 1980 college football season is upon us. Vagas Ferguson, the all-time leading Irish rusher, is gone, trying to recreate some of his collegiate magic for the NFL's New England Patriots. But those same three pass catchers-wide receiver Tony Hunter, flanker Pete Holohan, and tight end Dean Masztak­
return to the Irish lineup, a year older, and a year wiser. And, suddenly, all of the sadness that accompanied Vagas' gradua­tion last year has been coverted into optimism as Irish fans gear up for an aerial attack that should rival Germany's in­vasion ofGreat Britain during World War 11. 
Many experts have classified the Irish receiving corps as the best in the nation this year, and among Notre Dame's best ever. "They are very talented, very hard­working," said Ron Toman, Notre Dame's quarterback and receiver coach. "Are they the best in the history ofNotre Dame? I can't make that judgement, because I'm not familiar with all the other receivers. But it would be tough to top these three." 
As a freshman out of Cincinnati's legendary Moeller High last year, Tony Hunter stepped right into a starting role at the wide receiver spot left vacant by Kris Haines' graduation. It didn't take Hunter long to adjust to college football, either. In fact, on Notre Dame's second play from scrimmage in the season-open­ingvictory over Michigan, Hunter caught a Rusty Lisch pass for a 31-yard gain. From that point Irish opponents knew Tony Hunter was not your ordinary freshman. 
"When I came to Notre Dame, I didn't really expect to play that much, at first," Hunter said. "I was really surprised that I got the chance to play as much as I did last season, and I'm sure it'll help me this year. 
"It's always a great experience and thrill playing for Notre Dame. But as a fresh­man, it was just that much more of a thrill." 
Hunter, in turn, thrilled Irish fans by gaining an incredible 690 yards on 27 receptions. That computes to nearly 26 yards per catch, which placed him among the nation's leaders, freshman or other­wise. Hunter owes much of his success last year to one man, whose departure due to graduation has created a controversy of "Who Shot J.R.?"-proportions as to who his replacement will be. 
"Rusty Lisch was a great key to my success," said Hunter. "He was kind enough to give me a lot of attention during practices, and he worked hard with me on timing and those sort of things. 
''I'll miss his presence a little bit, but whoever starts on Saturday should do the job. They're all great." 
The flanker position will be manned by senior P.ete Holohan, who begins his third season as a starter for the Irish. Like Hunter, Holohan presents a 6-5 target for whomever gains the knod at quarterback. Last season, the Liverpool, N.Y., native provided a consistent 22 receptions for 386 yards, averaging 17.5 yards per catch. And, as a converted quarterback, Holohan enables Head Coach Dan Devine to throw in an occasional endaround option pass, a play that re­sulted in a 47-yard completion to flanker Ty Dickerson against South Carolina last season. 
"Pete has a great pair ofhands, plus he's also a good bloc14er," said Coach Toman. "He is lacking a little bit in speed, but he has that knack ofsomehow getting in the open, which many times is just as important." 
Last season, as a sophomore, Dean Masztak emerged as one of the top tight ends in the country on the basis of his steady blocking, not to mention his team-
Kicking game could make -or-break Irish 
by Bill Marquard 
Sports Writer 
Often the fans do not pay attention to their names, until they hit on a long kick or especially miss one. 
Yet four of Notre Dame's 11 football games last season were decided by less than a touchdown, margins where specialty teams can frequently make a difference. 
Talk about the importance of field goals and many an Irish fan will im­mediately recall last year's opener at Michigan, where four Chuck Male field goals single-footedly defeated Michigan's touchdown, field goal and thwarted three-point attempt in the waning seconds. Mention placekicking to a Boilermaker backer and he will certainly cringe at the thought of last season's abysmal 2-for-11 vanishing act by the Purdue field goal magicians. 
One would think, then, that the Irish coaching staff would be a bit appre­hensive heading into the first game of the season with a crew of kickers boasting little, if any, college booting experience. 
But such is not the case, as speciality team mentor Gene Smith is quick to point out. 
"We have been impressed with our kicking prospects this year," remarked the Irish assistant. "They have demon­strated a great deal of poise already'." 
When one hears "poise" around the Cartier practice field it is most often used to describe freshman phenoms Grooms and Kiel, and the kicking situation is no different. Over a week before tomorrow's hallowed announce­ment of the starting quarterback, the Irish coaching staff gave Kiel the nod as first-string punter. 
"Blair Kiel is an exceptional athlete with a lot ofpoise," remarked Smith, at a loss for synonyms. "We are confident he can handle the pressure. "As a punter, he is better than anyone else out there -we have put him under pressure during practice and he has responded well." 
I
During his three-year prep career, Kiel booted 105 punts for a 38.4 · average, toeing one for a record 74 yards last fall. '"Actually I am pretty excited-I have never played in front of 60,000 people
1before." said Kiel. "I hope to relax and 
· I 1 punt the way I am capable of doing. 
leading 28 receptions for 428 yards, a 15. 3 yard-average per-catch, and two touch­downs. This year, many are projecting potential All-American status for the Toledo, Ohio, junior. 
With these projections comes the in­evitable comparisons with another Irish All-American tight end, Ken McAfee. But Masztak shuns those comparisons. "I try not to compare myself to Ken, or anyone else for that matter," he said, "because I'm not them. I tust try to be myself and go out on the field and perform to the best of my abilities. I don:t try to imitate anyone else." 
Most Irish fans will remember Masztak for his clutch touchdown catch in the final seconds to defeat South Carolina last October 27. Masztak feels he learned a great deal last year, and expects'this season to be a challenging one. 
"Last year I'll have to classify as a year of experience," he said. "It was my first year as a starter, and I learned a lot. I'm very excited about this season-it ought to be a tough year, but we will be a lot better than what other people think." 
Tony Hunter, Pete Holohan, and Dean Masztak all agree that it really doesn't matter who Notre Dame's starting quarterback is for Saturday's opener 
The pressure isn't that bad; in high school I played better under pressure." 
Kiel has been doing double-duty on the practice field, working on his kick­ing game before and after workouts while concentrating on the quarterback spot in between. Given a choice tomor­row should he quarterback, Kiel would not mind handling the punting chores too. · 
"It never hurt me before to punt after quarterbacking a series. In fact, ithelped me to maintain my momentum." 
But Smith would not hesitate to send junior Brian Whelan in to kick on fourth down if Kiel's offensive chores do interfere with his punting. The place­kicking chores could be handled by one or more of a trio of talented toes belonging to sophomore MarkJohnston and juniors Harry Oliver and Steve Cichy. 
Johnston, a walk-on from Rochester's Cardinal Mooney High School, was an All-City Catholic League guard who had never done much kicking. After meet­ing and working with Bob Thomas, Chicago Bears' placekicker and Rochester resident,] ohnston decided to exercise his leg with the Irish. 
"Last year I realized that with Chuck Male andJoe Unis here there would not be that much of a chance to play," offered the 5-foot-11 walkon. "But I always hoped I'd get a chance." 

Difficult task awaits LBs 
by Mike Olenik 
Sports Writer 
As the Irish defense prepares itself for a most crucial test tomorrow, one can't help but look especially close at the linebacker situation. Spearheaded by tri-captain Bob Crable, this young and relatively untested 1,1nit will be called upon to contain a potent and veteran Purdue offense. Led by Heisman candidate Mark Herrmann, the Boilermakers boast a balanced attack, one which will thoroughly test all aspects of the Irish defense. 
Notre Dame linebacker coach George Kelly views his group in an interesting manner. "As a whole, we 


1 
I 
I 
1 
Tony Htmter 

against Purdue, be it Courey, Koegel, Knafelc, Kiel, Grooms, or even Moe, Larry, or Curly. One has to agree with Coach Toman's view on his receiving trio, though: "As long as the quartt:rback can throw the football, these guys are going to catch it." 
Oliver, who handled the punting.and placekicking chores for Cincinnati Moeller during three state champion­ship seasons, also has a shot at the placekicking job. 
"Oliver doesn't have the long range that Johnston has," explained Smith. "But he is quicker at getting the ball off." Since Notre Dame's young of­fensive line also blocks on extra point and field goal attempts, Oliver's quick delivery might be a welcome asset. 
Veteran defensive back Steve Cichy completes the placekicking triumvirate. The 6-foot-2 native of Fargo, ND was a placekicker and punter for Shanley High School, and the Irish coaches may call for Cichy's strong leg on long distance field goal attempts. 
"Cichy pops the ball when he kicks it," exp-lains Head Coach Dan Devine. "He doesn't have the form that the other two kickers do,.but I would not hesitate to go with Steve when we need the dis­tance." 
Cichy, who kicked off toward the t:nd of the 1978 season after replacing the injured Chuck Male, will return to the kickoff spot flanked by a crew of seasoned veterans. 
"Cichy has had a lot of experience on kickoffs, as has the rest of that special team," remarked Smith. "That should mean excellent coverage to stop any return." 
don't have the experience that some people think, yet we have some youngsters that have learned our philosophy well. We have some excellent speed, which will definitely be a great asset against Purdue." 
Flanking Crable throughout the fall practices has been sophomore Mark Zavagnin and juniorJohn Rice. Despite having contrasting styles, Kelly feels that both these standout atheletes complement Crable in the middle well. 
"Mark has had a very good fall. He is always improving, showing greater quickness to go along with his already very physical style. John has worked extremely hard the past two years, 
(continued on page 12)Dean Masztak 

The Irish Extra Friday, Septentber 5, 1980 -page 12 

I 
,' 
~. 
r 
' I t 
r 
I 
~ 



Marshall makes debut 
Grid Picks 1980 

Paul Mullaney 
Edltor-':t-Chiel Georgia Tech at Alabama Tide by 11 Villanova at Maryland Terps by 13 Furman at North Carolina Heels by 12 Stanford at Oregon Cards by 17 Georgia at Tennessee Vols by 1 Texas A & Mat Mississippi Rebels by3 New Mexico at Brigham Young BYU by 10 Colgate at Penn State Lions by 17 Purdue at Notre Dame Irish by 4 
audiences). I think it's better to spot play 
and work yourself in gradually." 
Yonto, a coach of 17 seasons at Notre 
Dame, has seen former Irish All­
-Americans like Steve Niehaus and Ross 
Browner step in and earn starting berths 
on the defensive line during their fresh­
men campaigns, so he is not averse to 
putting Marshall into the fray Saturday, 
but the improvement and overall ex­
perience of Kramer and Kidd has won 
them the tackle spots for now. 
"Tim'sa hard worker, butit's a different 
game for him now than high school," 
Yonto i~ists. "His quickness and effort 
offset a lot of mistakes, but there are still 
situations he'll have to learn to recognize 
and techniques he'll have to improve on. 
He's very trappable now. Only game time 
will tell a little more." 
Marshall, an easy-going student off the 
field, has found enough outlets on 
campus to filter outsome of the football pressures. "There's enough football, but not too much so you get sick of it," he Isays. "I like the atmosphere around here. bveryone's friendly and I like the idea ofa 
small university where they stress ed­
ucation." 
One of Marshall's favorite pasttimes 
seems to be his running battle of one liners with roommate Rick Naylor, a , freshman linebacker from Cincinnati's 1 Moeller High School, and various other 
targets prone to witticism. After roasting 
Naylor with some well-chosen allusions 
to Karl Malden (Naylor still bears the 
swelling of a broken nose sustained in 
practice last week}, Marshall returns to 
the subject at hand. 
"Football really is secondary to ed­
ucation," offers Marshall. "There's only 
so long you can play the game, so I'll take 
whatever comes. There's gonna be set­
backs along the way-those first few 
plays, I might notevengetoffthe ball, but 
it'll probably just take a little time." 
About four years of chasing down ball 
carriers and putting heat on quarterbacks 
should be all the time Marshall and his 
coaches need. 
"He could be a great one," adds Yon to. 
"Like a Mike Kadish, a Greg Marx, or a 
Pete Duranko." 

Irish,Boilers to vie 
SOUTH BbND, Ind. (AP}-Purdue's powerful Boilermakers, led by the great Mark Herrmann, invade Notre Dame Saturday for an early football clash be­tween two intra-state rivals with aspir­ations for national honors. 
The game originally was scheduled for later in the season, but was moved up for purposes of television and will be beaened to approximately 85 percent of the nation. 
It will be the 5 2nd meeting between the two Midwest Powers with Notre Dame holding a 31-18-2 edge in the series. A year ago, Notre Dame held a 20-7 lead midway through the third quarter before Herrmann directed three touchdown drives to give the Boilermakers a 28-22 victory. 
"Purdue is not just Mark Herrman11," said Irish coach Dan Devine. 

"We know what to expect from Herrmann, but Purdue proved last year that it is impossible to key on Mark and forget about their running attack." 
The Boilermakers have tremendous running depth in John Macon, Wally Jones, Ben McCall and Jimmy Smith. And Herrmann has brilliant receivers in Bart Burrell and Dave Young, not to mention safety-valve receivers in his corps of running backs. 
That will be a test for the Irish defense, but defense is Notre Dame's main strength. bnds Scott Zettek and John Hankerd anchor a veteran line that includes DonKiddandPatKramer. Then there's freshman tackle Tim Marshall who Devine said "probably will not start but could get into the game about the third m~nute of the first quarter." 
by Gary Grassey 
Sports Writer 

While most Irish football observers ponder the prospect of a discovering a freshman in the mold of Rick Leach, Art Schlichter, or even Mark Herrmann taking the opening snap from Irish center 
John Scully tomorrow afternoon, there is 
another yearling on the opposite side of 
the trenches whose playing time is guaranteed to begin not long after the 
Purdue offense takes the field. 

Althouhg Notre Dame's freshman standout Tim Marshall may not start at defensive tackle-veterans Pat Kramer and Don Kidd remain atop the depth charts-there will be no way to keep the 18-yeaor old with the billing "Darth Vader in cleats" on the sidelines for long. 
"We thrive on competition for pos­itions," says Irish defensive coordinator and line coach Joe Yonto, "And Tim Marshall has lived up to all expectations. He's put pressure onJ<.ramer and Kidd to perform and the more pressure he can put on them, the better football team we'll be." 
Marshall embarks on his Notre Dame career with much fanfare from his brilliant prep career at Chicago's Weber High School. Considered one of the best two or three linemen available in his high school graduating class, Marshall earned Illinois Player ofthe Year honors in 1979, was named to innumerable All-America teams, and followed the lead of Irish teammates Tony Hunter and Bob Crable with his recognition as Catholic Player of the Year last season. 
But Marshall, a ferocious pass rusher as well as run defender, has no qualms with the coaching staff when it comes down to the question of starters for the Purdue contest. 
"Right now, I feel I'm the freshman," concedes the 6-4, 240-pounder. "I like that quote'bven though you're a fresh­man, you don't have to play like a freshman'. But there is a real transition from high school to college, as far as adjusting to situations you haven't handled (i.e. bigger, stronger, and faster opponents, stadium crowds of 60,000 or more, and nationwide television 

• • • Difficult task 
(continued from page 11) 
and while we always knew about his great spead and quickness to the ball, he has just recently begun playing the more physical game that we need from his position," said Kelly. 
Naturally, the success of the line-backing corp will ride with the level of performance and leadership exhibited by Bob Crable. Crable, a third team All-American and Notre Dame's record holder for tackles in a season, will be called upon to bolster a defense coming off a year of numerous injuries and scattered criticism. Despite the scope of his importance to both the linebacking corp and defense as a whole, Crable gives no reason· to believe that he will respond anything less than superbly. 
"Bob is the most total player I've had since I've been here. He's quick and extremely physical, both coming through dedicated practice," emphasized a con­fident Kelly. 

Kelly's confidence didn't end with his prize middle linebacker, as he was quick to point out that his squad was more than three deep. "BothJoe Rudzinski and Rick Naylor will provide some talented backup this year. We expect them to see plenty of action." 
Just how well Kelly's crew shapes up for this week's showdown remains to be seen but emotion will have to be big factor i~ executing a successful gameplan. It has been clear throughout the fall practices that both Zavagnin and Rice absorbed the system well, but it will all come down to execution and inspired play on the field itself to see if Bob Crable and the rest of the Notre Dame defense are up to a very difficult task. 
TOMORROW'S LINEUPS 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE 
POS. NO. HT WT CL. TE 86 6-4 227 JR
DEAN MASZTAK 
74 6-7 250 so
LT MIKE SHINER LG 76 RANDY ELLIS 6-4 251 so c 57 JOHN SCULLY 6-5 255 SR RG 65 BOB BURGER 6-2 240 SR RT 71 PHIL POZDERAC 6-9 260 JR SE 85 TONY HUNTER 6-5 211 so QB 2 MIKE COUREY 6-1 202 SR HB 22 PHIL CARTER 5-10 193 so F8 33 JOHN SWEENEY 6-2 225 so FL 31 PETE HOLOHAN 6-5 228 SR p 5 BLAIR KIEL 6-1 200 FR PK 4 MIKE JOHNSTON 5-11 175 so 
NOTRE DAME DEFENSE 
LE 47 JOHN HANKERD 6-4 
245 SR LT 98 PAT KRAMER 6-4 251 JR RT 63 DON KIDD 6-2 240 
SR RE 70 SCOTT ZETTEK 6-5 245 
SR LLB 46 MARK ZAVAGNIN 6-2 230 so MLB 43 BOB CRABLE 6-3 220 SR RLB 51 JOE RUDZINSKI 6-3 208 so LCB 23 DAVE DUERSON 6-3 198 so RCB 19 JOHN KRIMM 6-2 183 JR ss 40 STEVE CICHY 6-2 215 JR FS :1.7 TOM GIBBONS 6-1 181 SR 

PURDUE OFFENSE 
POS. NO. HT WT CL TE 80 DAVE YOUNG 6-6 242 SR LT 76 HENRY FEll 6-4 250 SR LG 57 TIM HULL 6-3 242 SR c 63 PETE QUINN 6-2 233 SR 
RG 56 JOE BATTAGLIA 6-3 234 SR RT 75 TOM JELESKY 6-6 266 so SE 87 BART BURRELL 6-2 182 SR QB 9 MARK HERRMANN 6-4 187 SR T8 32 WALLY JONES 6-1 193 JR 
FB 37 JOHN MACON 6-0 205 SR FL 1 STEVE BRYANT 6-2 185 JR p 5 GREG HAYES 6·1 171 JR PK RICK ANDERSON 5-10 175
2 JR 
PURDUE DEFENSE 
OLB 15 TOM KINGSBURY 5-10 208 SR DT 94 CALVIN CLARK 
6-5 255 SR NG TOM MUNRO
53 6-6 242 JR DT 96 PAUL HANNA JR
6-3 240 OLB 60 DAVID FRYE so
6-2 200 
ILB 59 JAMES LOONEY 6-0 225 SR ILB 62 MIKE MARKS 6-2 227 SR SR
CB 38 BILL KAY 6-2 194 SR
CB 36 ROBERT WILLIAMS 5-9 175 JR
34 JR 


Beth Huffman  Michael Ortman  Kelly Sullivan  Frank LaGrolla  Craig Chval  Brian Beglane  Bill Marquard  Gary Grassey  
Sports Editor  Asso Sports Ed  Women's Spo Ed  Sports Writer  SportsWriter  Sports Writer  Sports Writer  Sports Writer  
Tide by 10  Tide by30  Tide by 16  Tide by 13  Tide by 27  Tide by30  Tide by21  Tide by 20  
terps by 3  Terps by 21  Cats by 2  Terps by 3  Terps by 9  Terps by 9  Terps by 17  Terps by 15  
Heels by 13  Heels by 15  Heels by 14  Heels by 10  Heels by 17  Heels by 21  Heels by 30  Heels by 11  
Cards by6  Cards by 7  Cards by6  Cards by 10  (;brds by 12  Ducks by 12  Cards by 3  Cards by8  
Vols by 7  Vols by 10  Dogs by4  Vols by 7  Vols by 20  Dogs by 10  Dogs by 7  Vols by 5  
A& M by 21  A& M by4  A&Mby9  A&Mby8  A&Mby3  A & M by 19  A&Mby7  A&Mby4  
BYU by 12  N.M. by 12  BYU by 18  BYU by 3  BYU by 13  BYU by 17  BYU by 21  BYU by 10  
Lions by 17  Lions by 23  Lions by 7  Lions by 21  Lions by 11  Lions by 16  Lions by 13  Lions by 17  
Irish by 3  Irish by 8  Irish by 6  Irish by 4  llollers by 8  .Irish by 7  Boilers by 4  Irish by 3  

·lilt. 


QUARTS (per case) 
Blatz $7.59 
Busch $9.19 
Budweiser $9.19 
Colt45 $8.69 
Falstaff $8.09 
Hamms $8.25 
Miller $10.09 
Miller Ute $10.49 
Old English $9.89 
Old Milwaukee $8.64 
Olympia $9.39 
stores open 9-9

Pabst $7.59 
Schlitz $9.89 
Schlitz Malt $10.09 
Schoenling 
Uttle Kings $8.98 
KEGS 

1/2 brl 1I 4 brl Big .lJg $8.29 
-Budweiser $37.00 $22.50 $44.00 $24.50

Michelob Strohs $35.00 $20.50
win a week away...guess the 

$32.50 . $20.50
date &time of our 1 millionth 
Pabst 

customer and win a trip for two 

Miller $38.00 
to Las Vegas. 
Miller Ute $38.00 

Current count is 946,757 
*Old Milwaukee $24.98-liND SPECIALII 


caseDiscount Policy 
liquor 
Full Case 10% Split Case 5% 
wine Mixed Case 15% Split Case 10% 
(some exceptions) 

Call 272-0273: 

John O'Hanlon-Class of 1965 Sponsor ND Volleyball Team 








an on's
' 

WAREHOUSE UQUORS 
--·--------------------------------------------------------------------~( 
--,..,,----~--­
• 
' ~ 
~ 
r 
,r 
, 
r , r 
' 
r ,r 
' I 

Editorials 
What construction? 
Michael Onufrak 
A team ofObserver investigative reporters learned last night 
that there is no construction going on within the confines of 
the Notre Dame campus. The excessive noise dust and 
general confusion is merely the result of a g'overn~ent 
project designed to test whether or not students can learn in 
such an atmosphere. 
The project, for which ND out-bid such Ivy League 
luminaries as Yale and Princeton, also will determine 
whether or not professors can successfully teach with jack­
hammers and air compressors operating outside their 
classroom's window. So far the experiment has been ex­
tremely successful. 
According to Fr. blmo P. Moredorms, vice-president for ,construction, Arts and Letters students and professors are under the closest scrutiny. 
"Right now we have thirty-seven rooms in O'Shaugnessy 
completely wired for sound to test how students and 
professors respond to the new conditions," he said. 
"The results so far have been exceptional, particularly in 
the Archeology Department," Moredorms added. 
In that department, according to department chairman 
Prof. Fritz von Diggings, professors are using the confusion 
and calamities occuring outside of their windows as visual 
and audio aides. 
"One of my younger assistant professors, as our tapes have 
shown, immediately seized upon the resemblance between a 
diesel Cat 1250 earthmover and the now extinct 
Tyrannosaurus Rex. While it would cost our department 
several thousand dollars to purchaseand constructa skeleton 
of this auspicious animal, this ingenious professor made the 
animal come to life for his pupils by simply motioning out the 
window," von Diggings said. 
"And what was even more outstanding was the same 
professor utilizing the persistent whine ofa nearby jigsaw as 

an excellent substitute for the mating cry of the pterodactyl. While this animal is also extinct, by reconstructing fossils of vocal chords we have determined the noise that bird once made," he said. 
He added that the squeal ofa high voltage air compressor, a dead ringer for the death shriek of the brontosaurus, was being used by other professors in a similar manner. 
"I think this is exceptional teaching, and both of these inividuals will be nominated for the Sheedy teaching award," he said. 
The Charles b. Sheedy teaching award is given annually to an outstanding teacher in the college of Arts and Letters. 
But archeology is not the only department taking advantage of the new project. The math department has met with success as well. 
Prof. Rudolph Logarithm said yesterday that the rhythmic pounding ofhammers outside ofO'Shaughnessy provides his students with excellent examples of certain geometric progressions which are expensive and difficult to duplicate on tape. 
"My professors have found that as a man outside pounds a nail into a board his hammer strikes the nail at a faster and faster rate. By having students time the intervals in between blows and then having them figure the increase in rate, we are able to learn more about geometric progressions," he said. 
"It is a unique learning experience," he added. 
How long will the experimental learning projectcontinue? The answer is anyone'sguess. Butwith the successs educators seem to be coming up with now, it could go on indefinitely. 
Michael Onufrak is edtiorials edttor of The Observer. His weekly column appears each Friday. 
'What's so funny about peace, love and 


understanding?' 
EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is an unsolicited article submitted to The Observer by Pete Cuozzo. Cuozzo, a restdent ofHoly Cross Hall, is a member of a conscientious objectors group from the New Haven, CT. area. He co-authored this article over the summer. 
The writing of the Declaration of 
Independence 
Constitution, and Bill ofRights has proven to be 
an unparalleled event in the history ofmankind. 
Those brave men who authored these docu­
ments were n9t just men ofgreat foresight; they 
were also men who found they could no longer 
accept a situation they were convinced was an 
afront to their humanity. For the most part, 
their dissent was not for the sake ofdissent but 
dissent for the sake ofconscience. Their's w~s an 
abiding example which has always been the 
foundation of the American way oflife. Among 
those rights we as a people hold most dear, 
among our most basic exercises of freedom, is 
the right and freedom to follow our conscience, 
to think and to spelJ,k freely. 
Given the reinstitution of compulsory registration and the almost certain return ofthe draft, we feel the need, as Americans, to dissent, not for the sake ofdissent, butin conscience. We thereby choose to register as conscientious ob­jectors. We do so, not in failure to love our country, but in accord with the freedom we as Americans possess. We do so, notbecause we do not honor and uphold the precepts upon which this country-and our freedom to dissent in conscience-rests, butbecause we must answer the call of conscience and the demands of our faith. 
The government has long recognized the right of American men to follow the path of consci­entious objection. The Selective Service Act has established the procedure whereby an individual may legally attest to a review board composed of members of his own community. The criteria upon which judgement is passed is threefold­
sincerity, commitment, and public testimony. The conscientious objector does not seek to avoid or escape his responsibilty to his country under the law. Indeed conscientious objectors willingly perform non-combatant military serv­ice or non-military alternative service, for the same amount of time a draftee would have spent in the military. 
The conscientious objector does not believe that he has no responsibility under the law. He acknowledges and seeks to fulfill that respons­ibility. The conscientious objector believes that there are clearly defined limits to the respons­ibility. In. effect, that responsibility is super­ceded by the demands ofhis faith in God and the commitment to that faith which marks his life. He cannot in conscience do for his country what is prohibited by his God. 
This religious commitment is the basis of his objection to combatant service in the name of his country. Reflection upon one's faith in God 
Pete Cuozzo 
is always deeply personal. In this way, the pri­
macy of one's conscience proceeds and trans­
cends those actions, laws, or commands which 
contradicts one's faith. Thus it is not a question 
of not loving one's country, but for loving one's 
God first and foremost. That commitment de­
mands one not kill-for any reason, atany time. 
To kill is to contradict that commitment that is 
the heart of the conscientious objector's life. 
The rule of faith remains, "By your faith you 
shall be known." 

The Catholic Church, often considered least 
among the Christian churches to support con­
scientious objection, has actually taken a stand 
in its' favor. In The Church in the Modern World, the 
Church Fathers wrote: 

"To obey(one's conscience) is the very dignity 
of man, according to it he will be judged. 
Conscience is the most secret core and sanc­
tuary> 

of man. There he is alone with God, whose 
voice echoes in his depths...conscience reveals 
that ' 
Law which is fulfilled by love of God and 
neighbor." 

Further, "We cannot fail to praise those who 
renounce the use of violence in the vindication 
of their rights ... ·, 

Again, we cannot stress enough the sincerity 
with which we declare ourselves conscientious 
objectors. We are Americans and we love our 
country, but love ofcountry stands sharply and 
clearly delineated by our commitment to our 
faith. In the depths ofour conscience we find no 
absolution should we take the life ofanother. It 
is not this war, or a war, or the war so sure to 
come, it is all war, all killi~g. Men of peace 
cannot be men of war. Me of peace are men of 
love. A man who loves, in and through Christ, 
would rather be killed than kill. We who so live 
our lives cannot kill for this or any other 
country. 

We are aware ofthe potential consequences of our actions. We are prepared to bear them; and even if we pay with our lives, we will not and cannot forsake our faith. We do not seek to abdicate our responsibility. By this commitment we attempt to live our lives-regardless ofhow ·utopian or idealistic it might seem. Conscien­tious objection is not an ideology, it is a way of 
life. 

We realize that conscientious objection is 
idealistic and not consistent with the political 
realism of this or any era. It is, we think, 
nonetheless necessary for us and those who 
share our beliefs to take a stand, a stand which 
looks toward the future, toward the world as it 
ought to be but, as of yet, is not. 
We ask only for understanding. This is not a 
decision easily made, a choice made with half a 
heart. We are men ofdeep faith, and yes dream­
ers ofa great dream. Ifwar is to end, ifno man is 
to shed his blood in battle, if we are finally to 
erase the blackened image of Aushwitz and 
Dachau, we must finally learn to love and trust. 
Friday, September 5, 1980 -page 14 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
I==Ihe__Qbseaer==· 
Editor-In-Chief ............ Paul Mullaney SMC Nf'ws Editor ........... Mary Leavitt 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managmg Editor .............. Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman 
Mark Rust 

The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Features Editor .............. Kate Farrell
Editonals Editor ...... , .... Mike Onufrak 
University of~<?tre Dame du ~.c and_ Saint ~ary'~ C'?lle~e. It does not ~ecessarily Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe 
Senior CoP.l' Editor ......... Lynne Daley 
reflect the pohc1es of the admm1strauon of euher msmuuon. The news 1s reponed Photo Editor .................. John Macor
News Editor .................. Pam Degnan
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a 
Neu·s Editor ................ Tom Jackman Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges 
!majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views 
News Editor ............... John McGrath Advertising Manager .. Mike Holsinger
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC Executive Editor .. Margie Brassil Production Manager .... Ann Monaghan / 
he Observer /Friday, September 5, 19SO -pa~· '15 
Californian 



culture 
Art Buchwald 
LOS ANGELES-Everyone 
knows that Californians are The guests were all gathered different from the rest of us. around the small swimming They were the pioneers of pool and my hostess introduced 
"pyramid games, they invented me to the people. "This is Ted the candleleight dinner and hot and Jane, who are asking. tubs, and they were the first to $950,000 for their villa in who won't take less than $1 
"What a fool. Rhonda is "How abQUt Candice put Gucci shoes on their roller Ventura; Bob and Alice, whose mHlion seven for their place in always trading down." Bergen?" I asked. 
skates. English Tudor is now on the Laurel Canyon. 

Californians are into some­thing new now. It's called "real estate." It isn't who you are or who you know that counts anymore. It's how much you're asking for your house. 
I didn't realize how much real estate values mattered in people's lives out here until a very nice lady took me to a lunch in the Malibu colony at a $2 million shack which re­sembled the stockade in "The Bridge on the River Kwai." 
market for $1 million five; Don and Phyllis, who turned down $2 million one for their Spanish hacienda in Brentwood; and Mildted, who just split with Sam and is showing her $850,000 redwood contemporary by ap­pointment only. 
They seemed like really nice people. 
The hostess apologized be­cause lunch was late. "We're still waiting on Henry and Roz, who have just listed their Tarzana colonial for $2 million six, and Allen and Marjorie, 
"They're worth waiting for," "When Rhonda falls in love 
There was dead silence at the 
I said. you can't talk any real estate 
table. Finally, someone said 
Most of tht= people were in 1sense into her at all." 
quietly, "Off the record?" 
the movie and television busi­ness so I expected some hot gossip about the stars which I could take back East with me. But it was not to be. 
The table conversation went like this. "Rhonda left .Johnny's fabulous $2 million panoramic hillside retreat with four bath­roomsandanindoorjacuzziand moved in with Herb in his $600,000 condominium with a wet bar on Wilshire Boulevard. 
~======================================~=====================================set up after the waves washed

Local Airport: 
IVear 0~ I v~l\l;n~ u ?,
1. •~ 'J J. •~J II O • 
Mary Fran Callahan 
Within the past tv.''' months, two planes have crashed in South Bend; this is fact. Sounds like interesting food for thought for a new'i story. 
doesn't ii:i My editors thought so and proceeded to assig~ ~e to investigate the cause ofthose crashes. In an area the size ofSouth Bend, plane crashes are 
usually few and far between. 
A South Bend travelll:r cannot even catch a 
flight to Chicago on a majorairlme. United used to 
offer extensive service, but discontinued their 
flights last April for financial reasons. So when two 
planes, be they private or cumrnercial, crash in a 
two month period, questions arise as to why. Was 
it the pilots, the weather, airport neghgence­
back to the good investigative food for thought 
which any reporter would embrace with open 
arms. 
Newscasters reported the crashes, and most 
likely, local newspaper.,..~ followed suit. Should be 
no problem then in finJing out why these planes 
crashed. The public has a right to know if any 
neghgence transpired. and if none did, the public 
can restore its faith in airlines and airports. 
When I set out to investigate this matter, l was 
greeted only with frustration long bouts of 
"holding" on the phone, transferred calls and a 
bushelful of "I don't know anything"s. A spokes­
person for the. South Bend Airport Authority 
made reference to two private plane crashes when 
questioned and even said, "You mean the woman 
who was killed." But she then abruptly stated that 
she had no· information and the people who would 
know details would be in Flight Services. 
Flight Services informed me that I was talking to the wrong party and transferred my call to the General Aviation Bureau. The Bureau, which maintains a close watch on all traffic and reg­ulations, however, also had no information and then left me dangling on hold. Funny that no branch of the airport seems to be aware of recent crashes. Newspapers and radio stations do not "do research" on matters such as these; they simply write their stories and proceed to the next ones. That's their business. 
So  as  a  last  resort,  I  called  the  Police  
Department.  Plane  crashes  should ·be  public  
record,  should  they  not?  But  the  Police  

l )epartment quickly informed me of a new law entitled the Privacy Act. The law, enacted last October. now prohibits police from re1easing any informatinn to the public -.~hort of a case file number and the name of the officer assigned to a case. As a reporter though, I would have to make a personal appearance at the station to obtain even the fi!t: number. These tidbits of "privileged" inforrnat:• •n would not even enable me to consider turninc •"' my typewriter. 
This v•; ,'trial is not meant to air mv frustration over not '" ·mg able to track down sot~lc infor-ma­tion: th~.· is something' much larger involved here. Pc· ''k were killed in the area recently, and no one.'· 111s to know why, and if they do know, they willll• >t sav what they know. I Jeath appears to be trea;. :1 a verv nonchalant manner. Could it be th<lt ;· ,.,,. issoinething to hide or that today's air tr:~l· ·'' kes precedence over anything that happen• the past-regardless of how signifi­
1 , 1, 

cant' l an• -;ure the fi1milies of the crash victims do not . ', i' way,. and I would hope the general 
publiL · I not dismiss plane crasF!es with the mmcl' the aviatio~ authorities appear to. Follo\ "'L' formidable Flight 191 crash in ChicaP'' '. 1:t y '79, investigative reports began to appc''' · • tiona! newspapers' front pages. Much negli)"'' ·. :as discovered. 
Bu~ ·, I must remind myself that this is South . and only a couple of people were involv<·IL It is sad to think that three digit casualty figure;, . ·~1.·. result in order for anyone to get any answc~.,. "'~' s hope that tragedy should not have to pr<)[lllll ,laces like the Aviation Bureau out of their alleged ignorance. 
.Mco·t· Fttll• .{rllahan is a member ofThe Observer's 
nelJ!J 1/' ;, 

"Someone told me the Saudi "It won't leave this patio." Arabians are moving into "Candice sublets." Culver City." 
"I can't believe it. They Art Buchwald's sy•dicated haven't gobbled up Bel Air .column appears regularly on yet." The Observer's editorials page. 
"Do you know the mobile home on the highway near Trancas?" 


P.O. 
"You mean the one that was 

~:"J,:h;;~~:~~;figu<eCapeCod 

Box 
"Tl" mohilf' went for $1 million six." 
"I thought it had been con­demned by the zoning people." 
Q
''It had. That's why it sold so cheap." 

The Obsetver welcomes
I tried to get into the con­

letter./£m its readers. In
versation. 

order or a letter to be cons­idere for publication it m11st be
"What's]ohnnyCarson really

like?" typed, double-spaced and signed. No names will be witheld, and to insure swift 
"Six million for his home in .}lublication it is suggested that Beverly Hills, and one million the writer include his or her eight for his house on the phone number. 
beach." 

Ihlnesbury by GarryTrudeau 
I 7HOIJ6HT 

MJW, 0/CI<, I HAVE NO INTI3N­AN[)f3R'30N 
IET'5 NOT 8f; 7lON OF (JJJ1!foK3. I SUPPOI<TER5 
UNP!£/1'3ANT {l.l)N'T ORJNK 70 A 
ONLY LIKE!? 

'1VU CVN'THAVE M4NWHOE!£7R,4)8JJ WHI'Tl3 WIN/3.. 
70 WM/3 10 7HE H/5 WN \. PAI<TY If 'tDU '­fXJN'T IU4NT 
P/CtL, ITJlJST ISN'T /XKt/E.

I 711/NK 
H&SHOiJW

7HAT IIIA5 
711&/aA, HA~5TIJCI< 
fTCXJT. \

IJtAR. 
I 


r 
_....... 





Features 
Friday, September 5, 1980 -page 16 

Hats Offto Reagan 
Presidential hopeful Ronald Reagan and his advisors ha·ve come up with a sc,lution to the economic and politiCal problems which seem to completely stymie the present Administration. It has nothing to do with a tax cut. It doesn't involve balancing the budget or cutting waste in government or increasing defense spending. However it does promise to make America strong again and a leader to the Free World. Governor Reagan strongly urges a return !O hats. 
This simple yet powerful solution was unveiled to this repbrter by Reagan's future Secretary of the Department of HEW (that stands for Hats and bxtremity Wear) Winston Snood. We met in Snood's plush office in the penthouse ofthe Coronet Hotel in Washington, D.C. His des~ was covered with sketches of bonnets and bowlers. Visible on a drawing board was even a blueprint stamped "TOP SbCRET" showing the elaborate de­sign of a nuclear-powered fez. 
"Gq,vernor Reagan's whole cam­paign lias been an appeal for the return to the greatness that America enjoyed in the past," Snood began enthu­iastically. "The Governorwould like to return to a point when America dealt internationally from a position of strength and when American business firms were free from government over­regulation and over-taxation-a period in history, as it turns out when hats were in fashion." 
"That seems reasonable enough," I admitted. "When did Mr. Reagan first realize this?" 
"The Governor has always been a student ofhistory, having experienced so much of it first-hand, but the final 
formation of this new policy occurred 
during the political conventions. After 
seeing the intense desire that these 
serious and stolid decorations be on 
their heads, Mr. Reagan realized that 
this was the key to America's great­
ness." · 
"Hats?!" 

"bxactly! The key to American greatness is in its millinery strength. Our entire history shows that-from the patriots' tricorns at Valley Forge to Daniel Boone's coonskin in the Kentucky wilds to U. S. Grant's night cap in the White House taproom. 
"And hats continue to be a powerful political device today. Time and again Governor Reagan has reaffirmed his opposition to foreign policies that weaken the U.S. He has personally given up Panama hats since the Canal Treaty." 
"Well that's very impressive to be sure, but how would hats counter the Soviet threat?" I asked naively. 
""The recent aggressive expansion by the Soviet Union is actually hurting them at home. Millinery sources in Moscow report that due to the pro­tracted conflict in Afghanistan, bab­ushkas are in short supply. We un­derstand that a five-year wait for the purchase of a pork-pie hat is not uncommon and that some people have to share their fedora with two or three other families." ' 
"But, Mr. Snood, how are hats going to revitalize the economy?" 
"Simple, my boy, simple. The big­gest problem facing the American economy is unemployment, right? We in HbW estimate that a return to men's fashion headwear would create 
Mark]. Ferron 


almost 500,000 in the restaurant business alone." 
"How would it do that?" 
"Hat checks! What's a restaurant withouta hat check? Even the fast food chains would need'em.Just imagine ... Burger King: 'Hold the beanies, hold the fezzes'... or spelled out the Golden Arches: 'Over 10 million Homburgs served'..." 
"But, Mr. Snood, how will are­surgence in hats help the U.S. in the balance of trade?" 
"Ah, we're halfway there now. buropeans just love American Westerns. We sell them Stetsons." 
"What about the growth of foreign car sales?" 
"We bring back the old stovepipe hat-make everyone feel naked with­out one. And you can't sit in a Toyota 
•

with a top hat on!" 
"It seems as though Mr. Reagan's new hat policy could be effective in combatting certain economic and political problems. But what about gasoline, heating fuel, and other petroleum shortages? How would this policy help resolve the energy crisis?" 
"Like this. We put a little pressure on the oil-rich nations in the cranial area. We answer their cartel with one of our own. Governor Reagan pro­poses the establishment of the Organization of Hat bxporting Countries-OHbC for short. That'll put'us ina position to bargain. Then we say to those oil moguls, 'If we get crude, you'll get felt!" 
Mark Ferron is a senior from Appleton, WI. He is frequently seen wearing a green beanie. 


Hey, Hey, It's Bill Cosby 
GregDevero 
Twelve years ago, comedian Bill Cosby performed before a sellout crowd of 11,000 at the opening ofthe ACC. Tonight, he returns for a performance in the round. 
William Henry Cosby was born in a tenement building in the slums of Philadelphia where he played with brother Russell and friends Dumb Donald and Weird Harold. Cosby dropped outofhigh school to join the Navy, but wenton to obtain a diploma through correspondence courses. He then attended Temple University for three years on an athletic s-cholarship, butquit to pursue a full-time career in show biz. · 
His career blossomed quickly. To date, he has made seventeen comedy albums which have sold almost 11 million copies. He became a frequent performer at the Las Vegas Hilton and other night clubs in Reno and Lake Tahoe. He also appeared in seven major films. 
But the higher education bug bit again after a performance at the University of Massachusetts. "I started thinking," recalls Cosby, "and met with one of the deans who told me I should give it a shot." The University agreed not to publicize his presence, and arranged a flexible academic schedule. CosLy's gig at U Mass climaxed in 1977 with a 242-page dissertation entitled An Integration oftoe Visual Media via Fat Albert andthe Cosby Kids into the Elementary School Curriculum asa Teaching Aid and Vehicle to Acheive Increased Learning. He received his Ed.D in May of that year. . 
Despite hts :-1 "'Ctorate, Cosby sees himself essentially as a comedian ra ..her than a pedagogue . .Skeptical concerning the teaching potential of television, Cos!ry does not see his Saturday morning Fat Albert series as a breakthrough in educational T.V. "T. V. is mainly for entertainment," Cosby asserts, "it's not realistic to think you can turn it around." Nevertheless, the lead-in to the Saturday show goes "Here's Bill Cosby coming at yo~ with music and fun, and if you're not (..;.:eful, you may learn something before it's done." He has also won educational awards for his children's specials anti the Fat Albert series. 
Tonight's show is sponsored by the Student Union. The laughter begins at 8:30 in the'"round of the ACC. Reserved tickets can be purchased for $7.50 and $8.50 at the Student Ticket Office .or at Gate 2 at the ACC. ,, 

--------------~·-~ ---· 
The Observer Friday, September 5, 1980 -page 17 

Letters to a Lonely God 
When the telephone rings with the bad news call, you know what it feels like to live along with guilt. Death is a journey you must make by yourself; but if it were your own death, you could feel curious and excited, al­most happy to be relieved ofa burden that has become somewhat tedious. 
But if it is the death of someone near you, and you are faced with the permanent, total absence ofa human being fundamental to your own existence, then you examine yourself on fidelity: whether you have loved enough and kept close enough; whether yo4 have cherished a life with gratitude, and been thoughtful· enough to make your cherishing felt as a comfort'your loved one can cling to. 
I was away from home, in my first year ofcollege, when my father died. Now, today, this morning, news comes of my mother's illness: "There is a blockage to the heart, and the breathing is labored. Old patients in nursing homes slip away quickly when they're like this." 
I think ofthe distance that has kept us away from each other for so many years, and I cannot reach a kindly judgment about myself. I always knew, if she left the world before I did, I would bear guilt like this. I'm 
not sure I could have arranged my life so that it would be any different. For as many years as I could, I kept close to home. One day, home itself was gone, and an old lady lived in a nursing home whom I hardly ever got to see. 
The kindness in my mother is that she has always understood. No one else has under stood, neither my brother nor my sister, nor the rest of our small family. "You should come home more often," they would say, "Nana has been asking for you." My mother herself would say: "It's too far to come in the winter. I only need to hear that you are feeling well." 
I am closer to my mother than are any of my brothers or sisters.Yet the deepest deepest loneliness she has ever felt, I think, Came from me. I am not proud to have seemed to be a faithless son. 
In a few hours, I will make the journey that is so distant, it will seem like a visit to a different time oflife. In the house where my mother lived many years, the deer came at dawn to visit pastures stretching down to the sea, as though there were a poetry to life that was always trying to find her. Later, as her eyesight failed and she moved toward blindness, my mother, unable to sew or read, would spend time wondering if the deer still trusted those pastures as a safe place to feed. 
"Between the house and the wa­ter's edge, nobody every bothered them, but they let me come to visit," she said. "I wasn't afraid ofthem, and they weren't afraid of me." 
Now, at the nursing home, as I visit her in the next few days, the scene will be gracious: whatever the weariness ofher eighty-five years, she will accept sleep, when it comes, as a kindness. She will trust death to be as gentle with her as the deer thatha,e waited from morning to graze by the sea. 
Life begins like a birthday party when you're very young. The gifts are spread out, and the cake is blazing with lights. Everyone you love comes to see you, making you feel special as the birthday child. In the utter bliss of too much ice cream, you declare: "I wish every day could be my birth­day." All too quickly, the candles burn down, the cake gets eaten, the guests go home. After a day or two, the best presents are lost or broken. Except for the dreams you are left with, the birthday party has ended without a trace. 
Childhood itself is the birthday party when most of the great gifts are given. Then, sometime, when you're twelve or twenty, an unkind breath 
Reu. Robert Griffin 
blows out the first candle. One by one, you begin losing people in dreadful ways you never thought possible. It happens slowly at first, but the pace picks up. Eventually, you know, from these days after the birthday, you'll be left groping with a darkness that will deny the worth of your having been born. 
My mother has a talent for housing nightmares about death. She would say some common-sense thing: "The further from one birthday, the closer to another. We must wait for the next party, when all the candles will be lighted again." 
For me, there is one small candle left burning from a long-ago party in a far-away place. I must stand close to it for as long as I can. I must let its warmth touch my face so that I can easily remember how bright it shines. 
Soon, that candle may be sent for. There must be one slight, small shadow in heaven, I think; there must be one dim place where light doesn't reach. How perfect heaven will be when my mother is there. I will pray to keep heaven imperfect for as long as possible. From the experience I 
have had, God will be judging my selfishness.  gentle  in  
Fr.  Griffin  is Feature's  regular  
Friday  columnist.  

Study South of the Border 
For students with a desire to go beyond the limitations of a classroom and explore justice-oriented issues in a cross cultural setting, the Center of Experiential Learning, under the direction of Father Don McNeill, offers several alternative educational experiences. 
Unrelated to the Foreign Studies Programs, the Latin American Pro­gram for Experiential Learning (LAPEL) in Lima, Peru, the Program in Global Community in Cuernavaca, Mexico, and Univer.rrdad Iberoamerican in Mexico City all provide students with the opportunity and challenge to in­tegrate academics and actual field experience as they learn first-hand about issues of poverty and human rights. 
Univer.rrdad Jberoamericana, a new pro­gram being offered for the first time, is a one-semester program Oan. 4-May 17, 1981) in Mexico City, which com­bines a well-structured academic pro­gram with field experience. 
An intensive two-week language conversation seminar will be available inJanuary before the term begins. All classes will be in Spanish so that a certain proficiency in· the language is required. 
Each student will live with a Mexican family near the university and will be free to participate in any ofthe cultural or travel opportunities provided by the International Department of the Iberoamericana. Students will be part of the supervised field education pro­gram with Mexican students in Toluca, an area some 30 miles from Mexico 
City. 
Anattempt will be made to integrate 
students' particular field experience 
with their academic studies. For ex­
ample, a student ofaccounting may be 
able to work with villagers in setting up 
a credit union or a cooperative, or 
assisting in the operation of one that 
had been extablished. 
A second alternative, the Program in Global Community, was offered for the first time last year by the Center for Experiential Learning in conjunction with Augsburg College, Minneapolis, Minn. This is a three-and-one-half­month (Feb. 4-May 18, 1980) study program based in Cuernavaca, Mexico. 
Students from Notre Dame, Augsburg College, and other schools, live together, sharing meals and re­sponsibilities, and exploring what it means to live in a Mexican community. Three weeks are spent with a Mexican family, and students share in their daily experiences while becoming more fluent in their Spanish. 
Professors and "resource people," including government officials, the­ologians, journalists and historians, offer courses covering such widely­varied themes as "Womenand Change in Latin America" and "Pre-Colonial History and Culture of Mexico and Chile." 
Opportunities exist for travel both in and beyond Mexico. 
For Mary Ann Fenwick, a theology major, the experience gave her ah oportunity to begin developing an awareness and understanding of the 
issues involved in the struggle to build 
a world community. 
"Now I feel much more open to 
other cultures and approaches to 
living. I see things more in te~ms of 
world relationships, rather than just 
the small community ofmy family and 
Notre Dame," she noted. 
The potential ofthe Church in Latin 
America as the main unifying force and 
vehicle for structural change made a 
strong impression on Peggy Osberger, 
a senior government major. 
"There is a real strength in the CathdlicChurch that is not found any­where else," Peggy explained. "You 
can keep drawing on it even when 
things seem hopeless," she added. 
LAPEL is a ten-month experience in 
which students attend language school 
in Mexico, then travel to Lima, Peru, 
where they liv'e in a low-income 
neighborhood, do volunteer service 
work and undertake directed studies 
which deal with the complex problems 
and possibilities of the country. 
Studies touch on the economy, 
government, history, theology and 
culture of Peru. The students then 
prepare a research project reflecting 
on what has been g~ined through 
experience and s.tudy. On the basis of 
their academic work, they receive 15 
academic credits for directed readings 
related to their investigations. 
Since its beginning in 1974, the goal 
of LAPEL has been to create a 
structural learning experience which enables participants to become com­1petent and compassionate advocates 

Marianne Murphy 
of global redistribution and peace. 
Mike Haggerty, a law student at 
Notre Dame who participated in 
LAPEL as an undergraduate, said, 
"Through the program I reaized that 
Christianity is a way oflife, not a ritual 
practiced each Sunday. When I re­
turned (from Peru), I wanted to apply 
those convictions to life right here in 
South Bend." 

After receiving his degree, Mike 
began working in the Spanish-speak­
ing community here with two Holy 
Cross priests. 

"I had to go thousands ofmiles away 
to discover the Spanish community 
right here in South Bend," said 
Haggerty. ''Their problems are very 
distinct from those in Peru, butI found 
it easy to carry over my Latin American 
experience and help those who had 
been deprived of many opportunities 
also." 

The Center also co-sponsors the 
Urban Plunge, Summer Service Pro­
jects with Alumni Clubs, the Social 
Concerns Film Series. It is exploring 
programs during the Fall (Koinonia­
Georgia) and Spring (Washington, D. 
C.) breaks. · 

Marcia LeMay, the new coordinator 
for the Latin American programs for 
the Center for Experiential Learning, 
may be contacted for any further . information at 111oMemorial Library 
(283.·2788). 

Also, students who have participated 
in the programs will be available 
Monday at Activities Night in Stepan 
Center. 
.r····.· 
··:' 



Ihe~======================================~== 
Friday, September 5, 1980 -page 18


Weekend 
Molarity Michael Molinelli
Campus 


WELL... AU.... t THINK
5:15 p.m., mass and supper 
I-'LL LOCK HYSELl=
sponsored by campus ministry, bulla shed. 
~~ooM 6
7 p.m., 9:15p.m., 11:30 p.m., film, "and justice for all," 
.1 ~ 
engineering auditorium, $1. 
! ~ ..~ 
8 p.m., concert, bill cosby, ace. 
9 p.m, 11 p.m., film, "the longe~t yard," carroll hall (smc), $1. 




...Crown 
(continued from page 3) 
Margaret defeated a half-dozen other contestants, including a flashy New York City showgirl, in a series of festive events on Atlantic City's beach and steel pier. 
At 108 pounds and with a 30­25-32 figure when crowned, Gorman is still the smallest Miss America ever. 
One of Gorman's prizes was a two-foot-tall silver engraved 'beauty urn," which recently featured an arrangement of daisies in her vestibule. 
The lime chiffon and sequined dress whe wore as Miss America hangs in Gorman's upstairs clo­set, a bit musty but remarkably preserved after 59 years. 
Gorman held it to her should­ers; it still fell to below her knees. 
Four years after her crowning, Gorman married and became a Washington socialite of sorts, commanding newspaper head­lines and photographs in the '20s and '30s. 
Still, her beauty queen notor­iety haunted her for years. 
"My husband hated it. I did, too, after a while," she said. "We were so glad when that thing ended." The pageant was sus­pended for lack of local interest between 1928 and 1932. 
Today she calls the pageant "cheap" for not reimbursing her $1,500 in expenses for her 1960 return to Atlantic City for a reunion and a Boardwalk parade, one of her last public appear­ances. 
"Why should I like it? It would cost them $25,000 to get me back now. Isn't that what they' paid Bert Parks to sing that song?" she said. 
Gorman won't share her in­nermost thoughts, but her relatives said they believe she appears bitter-a word she in­sists does not decribe her feel­ings -because she feels used 
and  stereotyped  as  a  beauty  
queen.  
~ven  so,  after  some  relaxed  

conversation, she obviously re~ lished telling anecdotes abour being recognized on trips and meeting Hollywood stars of the '30s. 
r.ven now, Gorman occasion­ally gets letters from fans who recall her reign and from old friends in this resort. Last year, she got a Christmas card from Kentucky Gov. John I. Brown and his wife, Phyllis George, the 1971 Miss America. 
"But that's politics for you," Gorman said. 

Peanuts® 
THIS WAS OUR WORST BASEBALL SEASON EVER 

ACROSS 28 Lemons 1 Coarse 29 Tal Babl· 
tobacco Ionia, for 5 Trailer one 9 Scarlett 32 Aleutian 
14 Undulating island 

dance 35 Stayed on 15 Knotted 37 Earliest 16 Biblical 41 Onewho 
villain repairs 17 ldi guns 18 Fairy tale 42 Learned 
character 43 Sparks and 19 Valletta's Rorem land 44 Peaceful 
20 Turtle 45 Cinder 23 Busyone 48 Ump's 24 Shore bird relative 25 Shea OCCU· 49 Footless 
pants 50-culpa 26 Soundsof 53 Provo's pleasure state 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

WE DIDN'T WIN A SINGLE GAME, AND NO ONE CAME TO WATCH ... 

56 Titular 28 Onewitha chief lowLQ. 59 Certain 29 Depot: abbr. 
horse 30 Cork's 61 Baptize place 62 Lanchester 31 Willis or 63 Mountain Donna 
nymph 32 Enzyme 64 Carbine suffix 65 Villain's 33 Convex 
look moldings 66 Ointments 34 Inspection 67 D'Urber· trip 
ville girl 36 Physicians: 68 Remove abbr. 
38 German DOWN numeral 1 Layered 39 Starchy 
rock 40 Shamus, for 2 Wit short 3 Straighten 45 Froths 4 Road 46 Sophia's 
workers family 5 In reserve 47 Fruit drink 6 Certain 49 Type size 
figures 50 Free-for­7 Pools all 8 Brainwave 51 Picture 9 Electrical holder 
measure 52 Take­10 Willful (accept a 11 Guthrie challenge) 12 Repetition 53 Atop 13 Hebrew 54 Homeof 
month ancient 21 Rhea's Irish kings relative 55 Maple genus 22 Senegal's 57 Letter word capital 58 Kept 
9/5/80 27 Damage 60 Aves. 

Charles &hulz 
I REALLL( THOUGHT OUR ATTENDANCE WOULD BE BETTER THIS L{EAR 




The Daily Crossword 

© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

"••• any UMJY you UMJnt itl" INTRODUCING: RIZZO RIB DINNER 
I lb RIB, COLESLAW SGARLIC BREA 

$2.95 277-4926,
. ' 

18439 State WE DELIVER 
-~­
------~----~------------------------------------------------------------------------------~
-

rrhe Observer Friday, September 5, 1980 -page 19 
[continued from page 20] 
He comes from a school which, he admits, was not
... Grooms 
stocked with prime-cut athletes 
a Ia Cincinnati Moeller High, which is just a piece down the 


Sports Briefs. _ _____, 
Devine, tri-captains to speak at rally 
Dan l>evine, head coach of the Notre Dame football team; tri-captains Bob Crable, John Scully, and Tom Gibbon~; assistant coach Gene Smith; and super-fan Dave Cooper will bC" the featured speakers at a pre-Purdue game pep rally to this ~<N evening at 7:00p.m. 10 Stepan Center. 
Hockey candidates meet Monday 
Coach Lefty Smith will hold a meeting for all srudents interested in trying out for this year's hockey team Monday at 3:30 p.m. in the ACC audttorium. All candidates are requested to be sure to bring a pen. 
road from his hometown of Washington Court House, Ohio. 
In fact, Grooms was forced to play both quarterback and safe­ty 10 high school and acrually holds the career interception record alons with numerous career pass10g standards at Trace. 
Now all of this is not just mentioned in passing because nine out of ten times a player who compiles great statistics in high school arrives at a school like Notre Dame only to reveal that his relative greatness was enhanced by the greater team on which he played. With Grooms that was obviously not the case. His team did not win with him .. .it won because of of him. 
And he's hoping he can do since early in his high school career. 
"I guess I started thinking about Notre Dame when I was a sophomore," he recalls, admit­ting that Ohio State, the local favorite, occupied his fantasy up to that point. "I used to watch Notre Dame on the television. At home they play twice every week on different channels. When I visited hre I realized that this place has everything a college should have and I knew right away I wanted to come here." 
He's majorin_g in business and he's thinking about law school. But, as a freshman, that's a little down the road for him. In fact, right now all he's thinking about is Purdue and his first game in a Notre Dame uniform. 
grim that belies his exterior calm. "They think they're good and we think we're good so if should be quite a game." 
Even ifhe is not the winner of 
the quarterback derby that's 
been going on every day for the 
last four weeks? 

''Absolutely,'' he says with conviction. "I really believe that the coaches will make the right decision and select the quarterback that they feel can defeat Purdue. If it's me, I know I'll be ready and I think I can do the job. If not, I will continue to work as hard as I have been in case they need me. 
''Football is a team game and I am a part of a team. I'm ready to play whatever role the coach­es feel I'm needed in." 
-And, for Scott Grooms, that is not just polite rhetoric. He's 

the same for Notre Dame; a "Yeah, I guess you'd have to more than willing to wait his school he's wanted to attend say I'm excited," he says wit~ a turn...For now.
Major League Standings 
AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONlU.IJ:AGUE Blst EAST 


Petro returns to tennis helm 
w L Fcr. GB 
w L Rt. GB
82 51 .617 
which has a floe academic ''There were really two major
79 53 .598 2112 Alllcdelphla 72 60 .545 by Mark Hannuksela 
reputation, to play tennis and factors in my decision to stay
72 58 .554 8'12 Nartreal 72 62 .537 Sports Writer 
go to school for free, and here at Notre Dame, the ftrst 
70 62 .530 11112 RttstJuV! 72 62 .537 
coming to Notre Dame to play, being that if I were to accept aShe has never won a National
72 64 .529 11'12 St. lools 59 72 .450 12'12 
a place where she will have to coaching position at anotherChampionship. She has never
69 63 .523 12'12 flew York 59 75 .440 14 
pay for her education, she is Division I institution, I might56 77 .421 26 OliCiVJ 51 80 .389 20112 won a bowl game. She has go10g to choose Stanford more have to curtail my teaching to anever won the World Series. 
often not," great extent or eliminate it all
85~r~ .634 WEST And yet, by her standards, one than says Petro. 
together. I love teaching, and 66 67 .496 18'12 los Angeles 76 58 .567 would have to consider her a Most probably remember the the thought of doing that did 
66 69 .489 19112 highly successful coach. uproar that Title IX caused on
Housta1 75 58 .564 '12 
not appeal to me. 
Mmesota 58 77 .430 27'12 ''The most important thing in this campus last spring. In
Onclmatl 72 61 .541 3'12 ''The other factor,'' states 
Ollago 56 75 .424 28 Atlcnta coaching," says Petro, "is not compliance with that ruling, the
68 65 .511 7'12 the native of Detroit, Mich.,
52 80 .394 32 Sir"l FrclldSID 66 68 .493 10 the won-lost record or the University made a number of
~Ia "was simply that I did not want 
major changes in its athletic48 85 .361 36'12 Sir"l [lege 57 78 .422 19112 number of people you can p~t in to leave Notre Dame; I like 
I Yestardlly's glm!S the stands. Those are th10gs department, one of which was Notre Dame. Notre Dame to me 
Qlldilld 7, EWtlrrore 1 which have to retain their to enter the women's basketball 
lhl.wsday's GITEs is the people-it's not the build­
I Se!ttle 7, Ebslon 4 proper perspective. My major team into competition on the ings, and it's not the campus,
Tormto 3, Ollago 2 Sir"l llego 3, New Yen 2 lnterest in coaching is people. I Division I level. 
it's the people here."' 
flew Yen 5, Callfcmla 3 ill'clntreal 4, Sir"l FrcllciSID 0 am basically a people person; I Petro, who in three years had Now, on the eve of opening MI'M!I.Mle 9, Ka1sas 0ty 5 Alllcdelphla 3, los Angeles 2 enjoy working with out student­compiled a 49-20 record as head another tennis season, the ev­
Today's gBI11!S Oily GsTes Scheduled athletes.'' coach, including one state 
ents of her past, especiallyOel<lm !tbrls 19-7) l!l Bllltlrrqre Given the fact that women's championship and a f10ish a­those of last spring, are second­

'Wr:f:.nqr 16-7), 61). Today's gart1!S athletics is on such a small scale mongst the top 16 teams in the ary on the mind of Sharon Petro Sel!ltle (B!rnlsler 5-10) l!l Ebstm Ondmatl (SecM!r 6-7) at Ollago at Notre Dame, the academic nation on the Division III level 
as she and her team await 
Uctr 6-2), 61). (leusdlel 11-9). world always occufies the top last season, was relieved of her tomorrow mornin~'s debut. 
Ollago (Trout 8-12) l't Tormto (Ocn:y RttstJuV1 (Bibby 15-5) at Atlcnta priority level for ti s girls. The duties when it was announced ''I'm really exctted about the 
3-10), 61). W'cWilllttT& 9-10), 61). athletics come second, and yet that Mary DeStanislao would upcoming tennis season," says
K.nas Oty (Splllttaff 10-9) l!l Cfeo.le.­St. lools (t-bxl4-5) at Housta1 (~ are important in that they take over as coach. 
Petro. "I think we can do a lot 
Sld (Watts 10-12), 61). 
9-8), (n). contribute to the well-rounded­After much contemplation, of things this year and i can't Mmesota (&ld<son 5-10) at Cetrolt New Yen (FaiCDne 7-8> at Sir"l [lege ness of the individual. This fact, Petro decided to accept the wait to get started. What
rc;n..-,......,. 8-10), (n). 
(8dlelberger 3-0), (n). however, can be a deterrent to University's offer to rerurn as happened last year has been 
Callfcmla <Knapp 2-11) l't flew Yen Alllcdelphla (Wik 9-4) at los Angeles the coach at recruiting time. 
head coach of the tennis team­placed in the back of my mind. I 
a-rt 6-9), 61). (Sutlm 9-.4), (n). 
"When a girl I'm recruiting a job she had held earlier but have my attention focused on 
(Ml!llirl 8-6) at Mlv.t!IU& lll'clntreal (R:lgers 12-10) at Sir"l mn­is faced with a decision betwAoa:n relinquished order doin~ best with
had in to the job the 15-11 ), (n). dSID Wmtefusm 4-5), (n). attending say a Stanford\, devote more time to basektball. tenms program that I can. • • 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two dars prior 
to the issue in which the ad Is run. The Ob11rver office wil accept 
classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail.


Classifieds 
plus new books, newspapers, etc. bedroom house. Located In sale from library. Transportal len nego­'\'IC'~lS FOR ARMY GAME. WILL PAY
Notices Ask lor free book special while they neighborhood, fully furnished, In· tiable. Please call Mrs. lulls 277· GOO D MONEY. PLEASE CALL 41-Desperately need 1 GA or student last! 937 South Bend Avenue . Jusl eluding washer/dryer. On bus line 1761. 4309. llx so Purdue,. scum friend can see west ol Corby's 233-2343. Open 11-and 10 mlnutedrlvetocampus. $70 his Boilers get beat. Ca11Gienn4549 
WEST Side IV 2604 S. MICHIGAN St. 
6. per month. Call 288·3109 and ask Need Sludent Tlcket(s) -Purdue
For Sale
lor Jim. Call Barry al 2140 Service all make IV·Siereos 25'1. 
SOUlli Bend. 234-2400 FULL TIME ·-------­
NOW HIRING: Bartenders, busboys Desperately need 1 or 2 GA ~~~-klr Discount to all atuden Is on carry In 
and loodrunners. 15-20 hours per FOR RENT: Ugly Duckling Reni·A·Car. Help! 1 need 1 Student Ticket lor Purdue. Call Martha 6751.
FOR SALE: TWO SEASON FOOTBALL
wweek. Apply In person 3-4 p.m. Priced from $7.95 a day and seven Purdue.$$$ NO Problem Call Pat atservice. WE MAKE SERVICE CALLS. 
TICKETS! (STUD.) A TRULY UNBEATABLE 
Service Calla $10.00. monday-lrlday. Do not call. Cap­cents a mlle. Phone 255-2323 lor 8650. Rllhy rich alumnus wishes GA Mlch
OFFER. ELIMINATE THE LAST MINUTE
tain Alexander's Moonraker, 300 E. reservations. llx. Call 277-6853 alter 5.
RUSH FOR TIX. CALL NOW! 277-3456 WEST Side IV 2604 S. MICHIGAN St. 
Collax. WANTED! 2 Michigan llx. Will pay a SOUTH Bend. 234-2400 FULL TIME 
high premium. Must know lmmed· WANTED • PURDUE tickets GENERAL
76 MERCURY MONARCH 6 CYL. 2 DR., Service all make IV·Siereos 25'1. 
BABYSITTING. Students Interested In lately. Call collect. John or Shelly ADMISSION or STUDENT Call TOM
AUTOMATIC. RADIO. NEW EXHAUST Discount to all atuden Ia on carry In 
oll·campus babyalttlng joba can (714) 236-9933. 1700
SYSTEM, NEW SHOCKS40.000 MI., NO service. WE MAKE SERVICE CALLS. 
sign a list with Pam In the Student IC
RUST. PH. DON 1233 OR 289-3781
Activities olllce. We are often get­Need G.A. Tickets lor Purdue. Pay WANTED PURDUE GA'S. WlU pay big
Wanted

Service Calls $10.00 . 
ling Inquiries lrom Interested par­much $ Call 283·8609 money or trade student tlx lor any
'69 buick skylark lor sale. Runs like a CRYSTAL REFORMING -Ban player 
ents, and are now compiling a list WANTED: Used 10-speed bike In IC_ game. Call PAUL 8916
raped chicken. Must sell. jim 3881
ol those students who are Inter· good condition. Call Jell, 1383. NEED 1 PURDUE TICKET GA OR
needed. Vocal• helplul. Doug, esled. MWF, 7·9 p.m; TT, 4·6 p.m. STUDENT. CALL JEFF AT 7781
Andy 272·1643 Two Purdue GAs lor sale to highest bidder. Call Mark. 233-5520. GET INVOLVED! Join CILA on Sept. 
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS WILL SWAP TWO PURDUE TICKETS FOR 
Personals 
RINGS. Men's $35-$85 and up. Free TWO MICHIGAN TICKETS. CALL MARK Genetal Meeting Sepl. 10. 7pm 
12·14 lor an Orientation Week-end. 
House Calls. 255-2402 TABIT AT 1045 WANTED • SMC or NO girl to babysit Library lounge. Reglatratlon Ierma 
Lost/Found 
my 2-yr-old daughter MWF 12:3 0 to available In Student Acllvlllea 
Tickets 
IN DIRE NEED OF 4 TICKETS FOR NO· I HAVE 2 PURDUE GA'S TO TRADE FOR 4 pm; some light housecleaning; 1 Olllce. 
Substantial reward lor Information MICH GAME CALL AFTER 1:00 PM NEED STUDENT OR G.A PURDUE 2 MICH GA'S. ALSO NEED SEVERAL mile lrom campus, you drive. $ 20 leading to the return ol blue 277·4088 TICKETS. CALL TIM • 233-6276 MORE MICH GA'S. CALL PETE 232· per week. 234·4498. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student 
ltalvega men's bike. 284-4503,289-0760 loans $20-$200. One percent Inter· 
8366. rM IN NEED OF ONE G.A. TICKET FOR URGENTLY NEED Many Purdue tic­You're not In the bars, nor stars. A est. Due In one month. one day 
11-IE MICHIGAN GAME FOR MY VI5-kets -Student & GA Please call Will sell soul lor 4-6 tickets to Miami prolenlonal man or studen I, who 
LOST:LADIES GOLD SEIKO WATCH ON ITING FATHER. CALL ED AT 8628 Dawn. '117870. on Oct. 11. MARK 1108 enjoys the arts, haa his smarts. Fortune Basement. 
wall. Open M-F 11:30·12:30 In La· 
SMC CAMPUS. IF FOUND PLEASE $$$$$$$ Petite, happy, 30·year-old me. non­CALL 41-4545 Need sludent or GA tickets lor will pay lop $ lor 2 UCLA res. bask. smoker. Write: P.O. box 6522, South Wanted: USED BIKE Call Cate at 287-Purdue Call Phil at 11163 or 1850 . licks. and 2 MICH. res. loot. licks. Bend, Ind.
Pandora· a Book•-1000's of used 5676.
bookl lor classes. Check usllr st ­Need Purdue G.A. llx AND 2 Mlch· will pay top $ lor 2 resv. MICH ticks. TO 11-IE ONE AND ONLY I.G. HAPPY3 dayorder service on used texts ­Need ride to Buffalo, N.Y. weekend lgan student llx PLEASE call Mary and 2 resv. UCLA bask. ticks. call 21ST FROM THE FARLEY SWEETplua n-bookl, newspapers, etc. 
ol Sept. 12 &/or any olher weekend Pat at 8091 . 11738Aak lor lree book apeclal while they 
Call Rich al1739 or 1737 G.A. WELCOMES BACK ALL NEW AND
I NEED ONE STU TIC FOR PURDUE CALL PETE 11163 NEED TWO G.A TIX FOR ANY HOME OLD MEMBERS COME AND SEE US AT 
For Rent
last! 937 South Bend Avenue . Just 
_,,of Corby's 233·2343. Open 11· 
6. Talented, responsible babysitter lor I ·-GAME 'CEPT ARMY CALL DAN 1621 ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
-·-···­
professor's ll·month-old daughter;
I!OOMS $45 MO. NEAR 233-1329. FOR SALE: ONE PURDUE TICKET..•. 5-10 hours per week; flexible MUST HAVE: TWO MICHIGAN GA Johnny Tim Happy '1191 Here's to
CALL JOHN AT 3106. BEST OFFER. schedule; $3-4 per hour depending ---TICKETS. MONEY NO OBJECT. CALL many, many more. Love Christie 
Pandora's Books-1000'1 or used 
bookJ lor classes. Check usllr st -Graduate sludenl looking lor -­
on experience. Located one mile 277-3575. Jo
3 day order service on used texts -roommates to share a clean live-HELP MEl NEED 5 GA FOOTBAlL 
----~-------------------------------------------------------~ 

The Observer Friday:, September 5, 1980 -page 20 
Scott Grooms 
'He's gonna be a good one' 
This is the final selection ofa This time he has no problems 
laslt'c Coach All-American and 
five-part series analyzing each with it. This time he executes 
so on and so forth. If anything, .
of Notre Dame's leading quar­flawlessly. This time Devine 
Art Schlichter's predecessor at
terbacks. The order in which just smiles. 
Miami Trace High School 
these features have appeared in Unfortunately, every play 
comes with an impressive re­
no way reflects the position does not come so easily to an sume. Still. . . 
each occupies on the Irish depth 18-year-old freshman tryin~ to 
I've always prided myself on
chart. juggle athletics, academtcs, 
being humble," he maintains,
social adjustments and not lose 
"because I really believe that's
by Frank LaGrotta his grip on any of them. 
important. I look at football as a
Sports Writer "There's a lot to get used 
game that I love to play but also 
to," Grooms admits while eat­
as a game God has blessed me
During a practice ·round of in lunch in the dining hall with 
with the talent to play. I don't
musical quarterbacks, Notre four morning classes behind 
want to waste my talent, but I 
Dame head football coach, Dan him and an afternoon of prac­
certainly don't think it makes
Devine, spots something he tice ahead. His grimace reveals 
me any better than anybody
doesn't like. that institutuional meals are else." 
"Scott," he beckons from certainly part of the trouble. 
When asked to describe him­
atop his metal observation tow­"School, football, new people 
self he likes to stress that he's 
er. "Come over here please." in the dorm,'' he lists before easy gotng. 
Number 15, Scott Grooms, sighing. 
·"I really enjoy relaxing and
dutifully trots over to Devine. ''It's not that easy right 
having a good time with friends 
Removing his helmet, he re­now. " 
or just socializing with people,''
veals a head of natural blond But you can't help but be­
he says. "Right,..now I don't
curls, matted by the kind of lieve that Scott Grooms will 
have too much ttme for any­
sweat one can easily work up make it here. With flying 
thing else besides football and
when playing quarterback as a colors, as a matter of fact. It's 
studying. When I do have some
freshman for Notre Dame on a just something about him­
free time these days, I usually
day when even the thermomet­nothing you can put your finger fall asleep." 
er won't admit howhot it is. on-but easily reco~nizable, Notre Dame offensive guard Tim Huffman, a wart on the Irish offensive line last season, will
''Scott,'' begins Devine, nevertheless. Lets calltt confid­
"you're doing fine except..." ence because that's exactly [continued on page 19] miss tomorrow's season opener against Purdue be­cause ofa broken ankle fphoto by Gary F. MtllsJ
And the coach proceeds to what Scott Grooms calls it. explain te his eager-to-learn "I think a quarterback has to rookie all the things a Notre be confident," he reflects. Dame quarterback needs to "Not to the point where he Division nplay know. · becomes cocky, but he has to 
Grooms nods obediently. believe in himself if he's going Then, on cue from Devine, he to be in control. How can he 
Women's tennis begins tomorrow 
runs across the astroturf to join expect his teammates to have 
his teammates. confidence in him ifhe doesn't ''He's gonna be a good one,'' have confidence in himself?" 
by Kelly Sullivan With that in mind, the IrishDevine mutters to no one in When you look at Grooms' Women's Sports Editor made the move to Division II
particular. high school statistics you can this year, and will get their first 
Meanwhile, back in the hud­understand his self-confidence, Winning the Division IIJ state taste of competition in thatdle Grooms waits for his next but you'll most likely wonder crown in 1978 and finishing bracket when they open their turn behind the center. When it how he can be humble. Hey, runner up in 1979 haserovenone season tomorrow morning on comes, coach Ron Toman calls look at his credentials. First thing to Notre Dame's women's the Courtney Courts. 
the same play that Grooms had team all-Ohio, Parade magaz­tennis players: they're ready Notre Dame will host In­problems with before. ine All-American, Adidas Scho-for bigger and better things. 
diana-Purdue (Ft. Wayne), an opponent the Irish have beaten by identical 9-0 drubbings the past two seasons. 
Returning after a year's ab­

SUJeeney, 19, is cool to pressure 
scence, Sharon Petro will pilot the team en route to what is promising to be an uplifting by Matt Huffman backfield where many ques­I feel like I've established year for the squad. Petro, who Sports Writer tions still remain, most notably myself as a college level run­directed the Irish women's the quarterback spot. Yet, ning back.'' basketball team to a state title Sweeney claims that the Irish It may seem odd that the in 1~79, will begin her third 
For the second consecutive backfield will be experienced, starting fullback carried all of season as tennis coach. season John Sweeney will fill with good depth. "We have a nine times for the 1979 ·Irish Eight players return from last the blocking back position for great deal of depth in the team. But Sweeney under­year's state runner-up squad, the Irish in their season opener. backfield. Our backs have had a stands his role in the offense. and with the addition of two The thought of appearing be­lot of playing time, and I think it ''I'm a blocking back," says talented freshmen, the women fore 60,000 demanding Notre will show on Saturday." the Deerfield, Ill. native. "Last have every reason to believe Dame fans seems nervewrack­Sweeney will be running in year I didn't have the mental they can achieve the lofty goals ing to say the least, . but plays for Coach Dan Devine experience to run the ball a they have set. Sweeney, just barel[ nineteen, along with fellow fullback Pete great deal. I'm not expecting to But we want to win the state appears to. be as coo as a South Buchanan. Buchanan sat out run the ball much this year, but championship and finish first or Bend winter. last season with a broken ankle now I have the experience to do second in the regional, which 
''I was nervous my first and will play with a soft cast on so. I do realize that my main would qualify us for the nation­couple of games, but after I got his right wrist against Purdue. experience is blocking, tho­al tournament'' over that, I was in a position to One year of experience will ugh." Even though Petro posesses improve as the season pro­prove valuable when the pads Sweeney will be contending definite ideas for the season, gressed," notes Sweeney. "I'm clash tomorrow. ''I know the with a tough Boilermaker de­she remains uncertain about sure I'll be a little nervous offense here now. It's a lot fense in his blocking role. Yet who her best players really are. before the game, but once the different than last year when I two first-time starters will be A tight race has developed for hitting starts, I'll be alright." was so green. I've learned to John's main concern. "They the number-one singles slot 
The 6-2, 225-pound fUllback read defenses, blocks and my have two new guys in the between Senior Cindy Schuster 
seems to add stability to a reflexes are quicker. As a result middle that I think I can handle. and Sophomore Linda Hoyer. I enjoy_ the challenge of squar­Schuster, from Des Moines, ing off one-on-one with some­Iowa, transferred from neigh­one else," says the son of Notre boring St. Mary's after captur­Dame graduate James Sween­ing the state title at number­ey. three singles. She posted a 7-11 
The key word in Sweeney's mark last season as Notre chances for success this seson Dame's top player. is maturity. "I think I've im­Hoyer boasts an impressive proved. I know more and I've 21-3 record from last year, adjusted as well as possible. I including a state and regional guess you can say I've grown championship at number-two up," says Sweeney. sin~les. The Port Clinton, Ohio 
"We have a lot of to prove, nauve was the first Irish player and a lot to make up for, like ever to score points in a 28-22," says Sweeney, refer­national tournament. ring to last year's Irish loss at Schuster expresses tremen­West Lafayette, Ind. dous confidence in the team's 
When asked to predict an ability this fall. ''I felt we were outcome on Saturday's contest really ready for the move up," Sweeney can only smile and say she says. "We're a better team "We're ftred up." than we were last year because we're all so close in ability that we push each other to play harder.'' 

Another battle is developing over the third sin~les position. Junior Carol Shukis, 19-3 at the number four spot last season, is being tested by freshman Pam Fischette, who defeated Shukis during a preseason tourna­ment. 
The remaining positions will be filled by Mary Legeay, a junior who nabbed a pair of state crowns at the number-five spot, junior Peggy Walsh, and senior Sheila Cronin. All saw action last season. 
In doubles, junior Tina Ste­phan will team up with Hoyer for number-one competition, with Shukis and Fischette step­ping in at number-two. At the present, Legeay and Walsh appear to have nailed down the third doubles slot, but will be undoubtedly challenged by jun­ior Stacey Obremsky and fresh­man Sue Pratt. 
With the Irish playing 11 of their 14 games at home, tennis fans can rest assured that Division II should not stand in the way of another champion­ship season for Petro's players. 
Hernnann 
questionable for showdown? 
The Observer learned late last night that Purdue's All­American quarterback can­didate, Mark Herrmann, may have suffered a jammed thumb in the Boilermakers' practice session in West Lafayette, Ind., on Tuesday. Herrmann, according to the report, is listed as question­able for tomorrow's game with Dan Devine's Fighting Irish. However, Purdue coaches or athletic officials could not be reached for further details prior to last night's deadline. 







