~~----.-------~---.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
... Riehle continues -page 10 

Campus crime rises; 
Cultural thieves rob students diversity 
by Mary Fran Callahan Senior Staff Reporter 

develops 
Assistant Director ofSecurity Rex Rakow yesterday acknowledged that five campus thefts occurred last weekend-one $59 theft in 
By Dan LeDuc 
Cavanaugh Hall, and four thefts totalling $173 and a book offootball 
Staff Reporter
tickets in Morrissey Hall. However, Bernie Segatto, Morrissey Hall president, yesterday How diverse is Notre Dame?
estimated the total amount of cash taken at "about $500." 
There are many groups onHe intimated that the thiefwas either experienced or familiar with campus representing a greatthe hall when he commented, "He knew exactly what he ?'as doing; variety of interests and back­he went straight to pants' pockets." 1 grounds, but how many peopleIt is still unclear exactly how much money was taken from are aware of the number of 
Morrissey. 
Mexican-American students on 
Morrissey rector Brother Edward Luther declined to comment on campus -or, according to some, 
,,~,"~
any of the crimes' details, but he did acknowledge numerous thefts. 
the lack of them?
"Thefts have occurred and cash was taken, but I would be reluctant By the year 2000, Mexican­
Workmen trim trees damaged in Monday's heavy windstorm. (photo by

(continued on /Ja!(e 6) Americans will be the second
Helen Odar.) 
largest minority in the United States. This fact is too important to ignore when looking at the profile ofNotre Dame students.

Lucey accepts Hesburgh campus invitation 
The Observer began first by talk­ing to Dr.JulianSamora ofNotreby Kathy Corcoran campaign issues here on campus. managed campaigns for several and Senator Eugene McCarthy in Dame's Chicano Studies Pro­All students and faculty mem­prominent Wisconsin Demo­their bids for the presidency, and gram. The program was createdPatrick ]. Lucey, John bers are invited to intend. crats, including Senator William recently served as Deputy to establish scholars and scholar­
Anderson's running mate on the Lucey, a native of LaCrosse, Proxmire. Campaign Manager, for Senator 

presidential "National Unity Wisconsin, was educated at St. He served as the Wisconsin Edward Kennedy's 1980 presi­ly activity in Chicano studies and to get fellowships for Chicano
Campaign" ticket, will speak Thomas College, St. Paul, Democratic Party chairman dential campaign. tomorrow at 11:00 a.m. in Minnesota, and the University of from 1957 to 1963, and was a In 1970, Lucey was elected students to pursue doctoral work. 
Washington Hall. His appear­Wisconsin. He began his polit­delegate to the Democratic Governor of Wisconsin, and One of the most successful 
projects ofthe program has beenance is due to an invitation from ical career with a seat in the National Convention in 1964 served for two terms before 

Fr. Hesburgh to all presidential Wisconsin House of Represent­and 1968. He also campaigned resigning to become the U.S. the Chicano Series published by the Notre Dame Press. Dr.
candidates for the discussion of atives in 1948. Since then, he has for Senator Robert F. Kennedy Ambassador to Mexico. 
Samora is particularly proud ofAs governor, Lucey is known the series, saying that that therefor efforts to reorganize the state has beena growing interest in thegovernment and reform the tax

Uni-sex rooms field of Chicano studies only in
structure, as well as the system the past ten years with thefor environmental protection. 
increased interest in civil rights. 
He is one of the nation's first When talking about Mexican­
Regulations causeformal complaints 
governors to enact an energy Americans at Notre Dame, Dr.
conservation program. Anderson, in his search for a Second in a series would have to be abJe to ac­Saint Mary's preferredthe Mar­running mate, said that in order comodate as many as 200 triple­riot-Chicago. "We looked them to complete the "Unity Cam­by]ohfl M. Higgins occupancyrooms. over ourselvesand decided we paign," the candidate should be a 



liiii
A great deal of the confusion liked the Marriot," committee Democrat. In Lucey's accept­In mandating that seniors a­stemmed from a lack of com­member Cathy Cainesaid. 
ance statement, he explained, Samora comments, "Evidently, 
ttending this year's Senior Class munication between Admini­There was also some doubt the majority of the Mexican­
"For me this has been difficult Formal reserve hotel rooms in stration officials and members that the Palmer House could and painful decision. I remain a American students are assimilated single-sex groups, University of the four-person committee provide a sufficient number of Democrat. I have not abandoned into the mainstream. A group like 
officials have drawn criticism charged with organizing the triple-occupancy rooms to ac­MECHA is struggling with the
the Democratic Party, which I 
from class officials because of formal and amongst committee commodate the new formal helped to found in my home other campus activities." the confusion surrounding that members themselves. policy. "We just didn't know 
state ofWisconsin and to which I MECHA is the acronym forE/ and subsequent decisions re­Beacuse of the timing ofclass what to do," Pusateri said. "We have devoted my political life. It Movimiento Estudanti/ Chicano de 
garding the formal. elections at both Notre Dame hoping work out a Aztlan -the Student
were to is Jimmy Carter who has aban­Chicano 
The University is for the first and at Saint Mary's, Notre compromise with the Univer­doned the Democratic Party." Movement of the Southwest. time requiring that hotel rooms Dame committee members sity, but finals were coming up Dr. Samora also pointed out
Along with his visit to the reserved for the March 27 and were just running out of Notre Dame campus, Lucey that there are only two Mexican­weekend stay in Chicago be oc­'We've been time." plans other area campaign act­American faculty members at the 
cupied by single-sex groups of Members say, however, they ivities. He will be at the Bendix university and "itdoesn't seem to two or more. In the past, stu­deceived were assured by then-Saint plant gates tomorrow at 6:30' increase." 
dents have made their own Mary'sDirector of Student 
a.m. to talk to workers, and will The acceptance of Mexican­
hotel arrang~ments. Activities Mary Laverty that no Americans nationally has been
be at the local Anderson Cam­
"We've been deceived and and lied to.' decisions regarding the formal slow in coming, commented
paign Headquarters on LaSalle lied to," Senior Class President would be made untilthe stu­from 7:15 a.m. to 9:45 am. At Samora. The Catholic Church, 
Mickey Turzai said of the situa­were not selected until the third dents returned in August. "She foundations and universities
10:00 a.m. he will arrive on tion. week of April and Saint Mary's told us that everything would campus for his 11:00 presenta­have all been reluctant to accept Officials of the Student Af­members until two weeks later, be put off,"Caine said, "and tion, which is followed by a Mexican-Americans equally. fairs and Student Activities of­leaving little time for the com­that we would keep in touch private luncheon with Fr. Samora said that only 0.8 percent fices at Notre Dame say that mittee to work in before final over the summer" Hesburgh at the Morris Inn. of nationally-awarded grant they acted in response to com­examinations."Because it was Events, however, required Lucey will then return to money goes to Hispanic groups, 
plaints in the past from students so late, we had a hard time that decisions be made over the Chicago via motorcade. but with the new interest of the who felt that they had been getting together with the Saint summer says Notre Dame As­Fr. Hesburgh will introduce past ten years this is changing. placed in an"embarrassing" sit­Mary's girls," committee mem­sistant Director ofStudent Act­Lucey at Washington Hall, and It is important to note the uation by having been forced ber David Pusateri said. "Some ivitiesFatherMarioPedL "Both others participating on stage individual's background when through "peer pressure" to of us from Notre Dame went to hotels said in the early months include Paul Riehle, Student talking to Mexican-American spend the weekend in the same Chicago to check out the hotels of the summer that they needed Body President, and Frank students. Three things are found hotel room as their dates. and we preferred the Palmer to confirmation on the dates, Tighe, Chairman of the to be common: Catholicism, 
The original mandate stated House." "Pedi said. "Because of the Anderson Campaign here on language, and family ties. How­that seniors would be required Difficulties arose from that triples, we didn't have any campus. ever, differences do arise. to register in groups of three or decision. The two girls who 
(continued on page 4) (continued on page 5) (continued on page 4)
four. This meant that the hotel were subsequently chosen from 
.. 

f 
NewsBrie_b 
A carrier pie:eon suspected of working for Arab guerillas will l:ie ccleased if nobody claims it, Israeli authorities said The pigeon was turned over to police by a family who found the bird on a window ledge with a message in Arabic taped to its leg. Police feared the message was to Arab guerrillas planning to sabotage Israel The affair made front­page headlines until the message was translated as an ancient Arabic proverb wishing good luck to newlyweds. 
Shunnine: yellow corn imported from the U.S. because tlrey prefer eating the white variety, the Zambian people were the topic of a news conference held by President Kenneth Kaunda. "I hate this attitude ofZambians," he said, telling the public to visit other countries where people are starving "if you think you are suffering because you eat yellow (corn)." Government officials say they expect to import $70 million-worth of yellow corn this year from the United States to help alleviate a chronic food shortage caused by last year's drought.-(AP) 
Oral arguments delivered by s6,ooo former Indiana railroad workers concerning the withholding of their pensions will await the U.S. Supreme Court when it begins its new term. U.S. District]udge Cale]. Holder oflndianapolis ruled in July 1979 that Congress improperly and unwittingly deprived the former railroaders oftheir pensions during a 197 4 revamping of federal law aimed at improving the financial condition of the retirement program. About $2.38 billion is at stake, the government estimates. Attorney Daniel P. Byron of Indianapolis, representing the rail workers, said the oral arguments were set for 10 a.m. Oct. 6. 
Murder ranks high in Indiana 
with a 34 percent increase since last year. This increase is above the national increase of 10 percent, according to recent FBI figures. "I have no idea why it jumped that much. But I don't think that kind ofincrease can be attributed to the economy," said Charlie Kurz, Indianapolis FBI special agent. Murder rates fell only in rural areas, the report showed. Across the nation, the victims were male in three offour instances, andmost were slain in single victim-single offender situations, the FBI report said. One ofevery five victims was related to his assailant, the report showed. The greatest number ofmurders, 43 percent, resulted from arguments. 
A black art directorat an Evansville advertising agency has accused the firm of refusing him promotions, work assignments and desirable working con­ditions because of race. ArthurJ. McFallar Jr. filed suit in U.S. District Court, asking that Keller-Crescent Co. and its employ­ees be ordered to discontinue alleged discriminatory practices.­The suit also asks that the court order the company to award him back pay, reimbursement for loss of promotional oppor­tunity, pension differential, benefits, experience in a higher position and stature in the advertising industry. McFallar is seeking $250,000 in compensatory damages and $750,000 in punitive damages. 
Hawaiian singer Don Ho was to have regaled an Evansville audience with a benefit performance four days ago the but the ill-fated show has taken on all the intrigue of an episode of "HawaiLFive-0." Promoter John James of James Gang Productions, missing for two days after Friday's scheduled concert was scrapped, surfaced in Evansville on Monday, vowing that all ticket-holders would get refunds. "I guarantee I won't leave the... area until this whole thing is cleared up," said James, although he did not make it clear how or when the refunds would be paid. The three weekend concerts were to have benefitted Evansville's Veterans of Foreign Wars-Brinkley Post, which was severely damaged by flooding inJuly. 
Sunny and chilly today with highs in the upper 60s. Lows in the mid to upper40s. Outlookfor tomorrow partly sunny and cold 
Wednesday, September 24, 1980-page 2 
Inside Wednesday 




'It Takes a Thief' 
Thieves are sneaking about on campus. Masked 
marvels, it seems, from all indications. Just 
think-someone had the nerve to go through 
the pants pockets ofaMorris~ey resident while 
he and a few friends were fast asleep on the floor. Yes, the pendulum is shifting slightly. Put the wave ofoff-campus on hold for a momentand take a look at the "criminal" activity on the homefront. 
Being right on top of the day-to-day news, The Observer has scooped the latest on "on-campus" crime with a lead story concerning thefts that occurred in Cavanaugh and Morrissey. It appears that it isn't your ordinary thief who's pulling the jobs. These thefts can not and .should not be blamed on some South Bend juvenile delinquent. The thiefwho may hit your room can be your next door neighbor, an acquaintance or even your roomate. Now don't go out and buy a gun or a knife in order to protect your domain. And don't go out to the hardware store and spend your remaining bank balance on chains and locks. This column is not meant to induce mass hysteria or paranoia. It is written as a friendly warning. 
. I'm not writing this purely from an objective level. In fact, three years ago, I encountered objects being taken from my room. What does a freshman know, right? I just thought that some­how in my mixed-up, confused state ofmind, I had banished them to never-never land. And then I started getting those "survival" packages from home-guaranteed my mom said, to keep me healthy, ifnot exactly wise. It was those times that I notice that small amounts of the food kept disappearing. For awhile I thought I shared a room with a sugar-starved rat. Until after I heard other people complaining of their things being swiped. Stealing is a very visual problem here. 
··~ 
Design Editor. . . . . . . . . . Scoop Asst. Design Editors . ..... Patty Fox 
Kevin Korowicki Night Technician .... Mike Jans Night Editor .... Pam Degnan Copy Editor.... Erin Courtney Systems Technician ... Bob Day Technician . ........ Bruce 
Oakley Day Editor. . . . Molly Noland Sports Layout ... Tom Schuster Editorial Layout ...... Rande( 
Jennings Ad Design. ...... Tom M ulfler Photographer ..... Helen Odar Guest Appearance ........ Tom 
Jackman 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday ellcept during ellam and vacation periods. The Observer Is publishedby the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year($10 per semester) by writing Tbe Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved. 

TRAINING SESSIONS for new members of the Undergraduate Schools Committee 
Dates: September 22-24 Time: 7:00pm Place: LaFortune TV Lounge 
''THESTUDYOFLAW 
,


IN WASHINGTOND.C. 
WHO: FRRayO'Brien Catholic University WHEN: Sept. 25, 7pm 
WHERE: 1040'SHAG 
Pam Degnan 

OK-a few cookies is one thing. But having $50 ripped off and your football tickets taken is another. And to make matters worse, there are too many inconsistancies in stories and too many refusals to comment on thefts by security, hall rectors and the victims themselves. Sure, it doesn't look too "hot" to have alumni pick up The Observer and read about how their son or daughter had a couple ofbucks stolen. And sure, hall rectors don't want to point the finger of blame on one of their residents. 
But, hey, boysandgil:ls, thisisacoldcruelworld. Life, can be . extremely unpleasant at times, especially when you deal with human nature. But these unpleasantries must be faced Why hide the fact that people do steal? Because this is Notre Dame? Because Security is too busy busting happy hour kegs on Green Field? Or because you are afraid to face the fact that it could be someoneyou know who is doing the stealing? 
What do you do in the meantime? I don't know. A colleague ofmine isgoing to read this and tell me that like usual I don't propose any solutions to the problem. And every week my defense is always the same: No one can solve human madness. Least of all a mad person like me. 
Observer Notes 
In yesterday's edition, a front-page headline read "Campus organizations sponsor mock election". In fact, The Observer will be sponsoring the October 2 election, in cooperation with several campus political groups. 

' \ 

The Observer Wednesday, September 24, 1980 -~ ~ 

Between Iran, Iraq 

U.S. to intervene in Gulf 
UNITED NATIONS (AP)-_ "It's a nutty situation," one Monday in California, said the The Carter administration, U.S. official commented. "We fighting 1Jlight convince Iran it growing more concerned about want to play it right down the needs friends and neighbors "and the conflict in the Persian Gulf middle and yet it's a fairly serious therefore induce them to release region, is prepared to support a situation that could lead to the hostages." On Tuesday, the peacekeeping move in the fragmentation in Iran." President said the United States' United Nations to try to lessen The two major concerns are position was one of "strict tensions between Iraq and Iran. that Iraqi troops might move to neutrality," and urged "all other 
U.S. officials said yesterday take over oil-producing areas of countries, including the Soviet 
that while the administration Khuzestan and that the Soviets Union, not to interfere with this wants to maintain strict neut­might be tempted to intervene in c;onflict." rality it is ready to back med­Iran. Neither is now considered Muskie said that "to the extent iation efforts even if they are likely, according to officials. that the situation becomes less based on Iranian accusations that "Generally speaking, (rag­stable, obvieusly becomes less Iraq is largely responsible for the mentation works to the Soviets' predictable, my concern rises." new fighting. advantage," one official said. Most State Department 
Secretary of State Edmund S. "But we don't think they will try officials are inclined to this view. Muskie discussed diplomatic to move in. They have enough on They had pinned their hopes for approaches at a luncheon with their hands." a settlement of the hostage 
U.N. Secretary-General Kurt The possible effect on the 52 question on the formation of a 
Waldheim. He told reporters Americans-held hostage in Iran new government in Tehran and only that "there are consulta­for 325 days was not clear. any stabilization that might tions going on here and in President Carter, campaigning result. Washington to assess the situa-· .P"iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii"____________ 
tion and consider options for 1 1 actions." Other U.S. officials, who asked 
·WEDNESDAY not to be identified, said a decision had already been taken 
SEPT.24 
tentatively to work for a U.N. inquiry, although the United States would not play a prom­inent role. 
W aldheim, meanwhile, sched­uled urgent consultations yesterday by the Security 




RAFT SPECIAL 
Council. He said the widened 
fighting posed a "grave threat" 
to world peace. 
The conflict was on Muskie's 



3/Sl.OO
agenda in a series of meetings 
with foreign ministers from 
Canada, Spain, Iceland and 

Kamikazees 7 54 
Australia. He and other U.S. officials were reported to have 


iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
had no contact with Iranian or • Iraqi diplomats here for the U.N.

AngelaAdamson isan instmctor wtlh Notre Dame'sfirst dance company-­
General Assembly session. 

Abiogenesis Dance Collective. (photo by Helen Odar.) 
Advancement Does Not Require An Advanced Degree 
Hostagefreedom 

Iran denies Iraqi rutnors 
You can spend another two to three years 1n graduate 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -sites, the broadcast said. militants holqing the U.S. 
school or you can turn four years of liberal arts education into 
a practical, challenging and rewarding career in just three 
Tehran Radio announced yes­Earlier on Tuesday, Baghdad Embassy in Tehran announced 
terday that Iranian militants have Radio claimed that the 52 that they had moved the hos­
months~as an Employee Benefit Specialist. 
transferred their American hos­American hostages had been tages from the embassy to a 
Benefits today amount from 30 to 35 percent of wages 
tages from six Iranian cities to freed. The Iraqi broadcast ap­number of cities in Iran. Since 
and salaries. Recent pension legislation has created even 
new locations followgtg claims peared to be part of the escal­then there has been no compre­
more demand for trained specialists. As an Employee
by Iraq, later denied by Iran, that ating psychological warfare be­hensive accounting of the exact 
Benefit Specialist you'll be called upon to excercise your 
the hostages had been freed. tween Iraq and its eastern neigh­number ofhostages being held in 
own judgement, initiative and intelligence in a·challenging, 
An unspecified number of the bor, Iran, as the two oil-rich specific locations. 
professional environment with progressive responsibility. 
hostages who were captured in nations continued air, land and The militants' reported de­
The Institute for Employee Benefits Training is the first and
the takeover ofthe U.S. Embassy .sea strikes against each other. cision to transfer the hostages 
most prestigious school in the United States, training 
in Tehran last Nov. 4 were Tehran Radio denounced the followed two days ofincreasingly 
Employee Benefits and Pension Specialists. This is a 
~oved out of the cities of Qom, Iraqi claim as a propaganda ploy. strident charges by both Iran and 
dynamic, growing career field in which advancement does 
Mashad, Tabriz, Jahrom, Yazd After an aborted U.S. mission Iraq that the other is a United 
not require an advanced degree. Our graduates are in 
and Kerman to unidentified to free the hostages in April, the States hireling. 
Clubfunding 
Below is a list of those clubs that received funds on Monday from the Student Activities Fee Subcommittee and were not listed in yesterday's Observer. 
-Mecha $1250 -AFROTC Cadet Club S1oo -AlA/ ASC $200 -AIESEC $200 -ASME $100 -A&L Business Society $50 -A&L Student Advisory 
Council $125 -Delta Phi Alpha $200 -Finance Club $200 -HistoricalAssociation$125 -JEC $200 -Pi Sigma Alpha S125 -Semper Fidelis Society $50 -Teacher Education 
Forum $50 


NEEDED: Cantors 

Guitarists, & Organists to lead singing at the daily 11:30 &5:15 masses 
at Sacred Heart Church A Stipend is available for Guitarists Be Organists 
Contact the Sacristy at 7091 

demand by law firms, pension consulting firms, insurance companies, banks, and personnel and benefits departments of corporations. The Institute's Placement Service will place you too. If not, you will be eligible for a substantial tuition refund. 
Furthermore, you will earn graduate credit towards a Master of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law for all course work completed at The Institute. 
Ifyou're a senior of high academic standing and looking for a meaningful career, contact your Placement Office for our catalog and arrange to have an interview with our repre­sentative. 
We will visit your campus on: Wednesday, October 15 
l 
j 
J 
The 

Institute 
235 South 17th Street for Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 
1 
(215) 732-6600 
J
Employee 
J ~
Benefits Training 

... 
(Operated by Para-Legal, Inc.) 

4 
Approved by The American Bar Association Programs Earn Full Credit Toward M.A. in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law. AC:.0036 
The Observer 


Bandmembers clean andprepare their instruments. They will peiform October4 atMichigan State. (photo by Chris Salvino.) 
... Diversity 
(continued from page 1) 
Sophomore Josie Nevarez, president of MECHA, fits the "expected" description of the Mexican-American student. She is from a barrio in San Pedro, 

~ California. "My barrio was so 
poor and closed," she said, "I had I never heard of Notre Dame I before I received an unsolicited 
application in the mail."~ She thinks that the average 
Mexican-American student was that she was Catholic. 
g from a Mexican-American "I feel the Mexican-American 
community has probably had a community doesn't feel open to 
culture shock in corning to coming to Notre Dame," she 
Notre Dame. "People are friend­said. Missing her family and the 
ly here," she said, "but ignorant language, she said, "I didn't feel 
of backgrounds." at home -I'dtalk to the ladiesin 
"What country are you from?" the cafeteria in Spanish. It made 
was a frequent question she was me feel better." 
asked upon her arrival at Notre Her barrio background hasn't 
Dame. The only thing she had in prepared her for Notre Dame. -common with the other students "Sometimes I think it was a fluke that I got accepted." 
Her parents spoke only 
Spanish at home. Her barrio 
wasn't directed toward educa­

f tion. It was poor and anti-white
Get Involved! 
-"a tense racial situation." 
Josie would like to see more Mexican-American students and 

Student Government is 
accepting applications for 
professors at Notre Dame. For her there is aneed for more self­


three new cabinet positions: 
awareness. She thinks that Notre Dame needs· diversity. "It is a Catholic school and that means universal....I feel that there is-an


Off-Campus 
under-representation notonlyof Mexican-Americans but blacks,


Transfer Student Orientation 
too." Although there is a "Chicanos 


Publicity 
in the U.S." class, Josie would like to see more ethnically­related classes at Notre Dame, 
(continued on page 6}

Applications available at S.G. offices, 2nd Fir. Lafortune Deadline: Thurs. 5:00pm 
Wednesday, September 24, 1980-page 4 
...Formal 

(continued from page 1; 
choice but to select Lhe Mar­riot." 
Pedi stated, and some com­mittee members confirm, that the decision was made with the concensus of the committee. "We kept the committee ad­vised of the situation, and when the time came to decide, the members were consulted." Pusateri was traveling in the Soviet Union at the time and was not consulted. 
Turzai, an adament opponent of the single-sex mandate did not agree.."They did it during the summer so there would be no publicity," he said. Turzai also complained that he should have been consulted and was not. "I never intended to give the committee wholesale auth­ority on theformal," he said. "I should have been consulted." 
Saint Maris Senior Class President Terry Hill disagreed. "If I appoint a committee, I trust them to perform theto the best of their j!Jdgement," Hill said. "If you don'ttrust them, then do it yourself." 
Turzai regards the affair as a matter of principle, despite the fact the Vice-President of Stu­dent Affairs Father John Van­Wolvlear eventually agreed to permit students to register in 


Foreign students meet 
All foreign students wishing to take the ESL (English as a Second Language) must register this week in the InternationalStudies Office. 
The ESL will be taught on Monday and Thursday nights, from 6:30 to 9 p.m. by Mrs. Sandra Hayes, a South Bend teacher and president of the Notre Dame Host Family. 
Also, an important meeting to outline University insurance vs. international insurance will be held tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the ISO. This meeting is important to all foreign students because their needs are not met by ND insurance coverage. 
single-sex groups of two."I'm 
just tired ofbeing treated like a 
child," he said."The University 
doesn't have the right to tell 
twenty-one olds whether or not 
they can have sex. I felt we 
should fight them." 
Turzai took his fight to the 

Senior Advisory Council.In a 
motion before the Council, he 
proposed that the Senior Class 
run the formal independently 
of the University."It was the 
one chance we had to show the 
University we weren't going to 
'PUt up with their motherly a­
ttitude towards us," Turzai said. 
"It was time students stood up 
and dtd something besides 
talking." , 
Council members, however, 

were afraid that the Administra­
tion would respond to such a 
move by restricting class ac­
tivities and funds. "Everyone 
was scared that the University 
would mess us up for the rest of 
the year," Council member 
Cindy Huot said. "They figured 
that people could just switd~ 
rooms when they got there." 
There were also problems with liability in case of a death or an accident connected with . the formal and financing of the event ifUniversity monies were refused."There was no way we could have done it," committee member Ann Hesburgh said. "We didn't have the money and the problem of liability was to~ great. It came down to having the formal with the single-sex doubles or not having it at all. 
The motion was defeated by a 

19-18 vote. 
"It's all so transparent," 

Turzai said. "The Administra­
tion is just trying to preserve 
their image as an upstanding 
moral institution, but they 
know everyone will switch 
around once they get there. It's 
all so fake." 
Pedi disagreed. "What the 

students do on their own is their 
business," he said. "We're not 
going to be checking rooms. 
However, we do want to ensure 
that no one is forced into an 
embarrassing situation." 
"I'm just disappointed that 

the Council didn't stand up for 
the class," Turzai said. ·~.'People 
would rather step around the 
rules instead of fighting for 
principle.We'll just keep get­
ting pushed around until we do 
fight." 
,

• HELPWANTED ! 




ItS for 
If you haven't yet con­. sidered a career in the
Northern Indiana's Leading Record Retailer 
communications industry, pause
Ou' 

• a moment and reflect on the
1s now accepting applications for part-time 
world's dependency on communications. Then consider the major role communications will play
employment from ND/SMC students 
in the era of the Informational Society we are now entering. Then welcome 
) 

the opportunity to be a part of the future ... today, with some 4,200
Applications accepted from 7:OOpm-lO:OOpm ...
...... .. other employees of 
41 e 41 I 41 ·41 I
...·.·.. •
Wed. Sept. 24 and Thurs. Sept. 25 only! 
• •,,• UNITED TELEPHONE 
~-CD~~~~~!...~!: .....I?HID
Apply in person to: Peter Kernan RivPt City Records 
' ~II • m•& '" wmmoolootioO' tot&"" yo", wotoct yo"' P"" 
ment Off1ce for mformat1on on our recruitmg dates or send your
50970U.S. 31 North 
resume to: Personnel Department. United Telephone Company of Ohio. 665 Lexington A':'enue. Mansfield. Ohio 44907
(3 miles North ofCampus ) 
-~--~---------~----------­
----------.-----------------~---------~­
,Wednesday, September 24, 1980 ·page 5 


Lack of 'American Spirit' .. 
depletes National Guard 
WEBSTER City, Iowa (.AP) ~ Superior Street. It was erected in In many of the small towns of honor of two local youths killed America, the National Guard in action during World War II, armory-like the church and Guardsmen who went into battle the school-is a link to a hap­in North Africa with Iowa's 34th pier past, a time of spirited "Red Bull" Division. patriotism. Today, only 24 Guardsmen 
But that patriotism has faded drill at the armory, all that's left· here in Webster City. o( Co. C., 4th Maintenance 
"They just don't give a damn," Battalion. Ma_;;ter Sgt. Val Ewing, said Maj. Gen. Roger W. Gilbert, the lone fulT-time Guardsman, Iowa's adjutant general, describ­laments that if the governor's ing the sentiment in this flour­plan goes through, the armory ishing community of 8,000 that will be turned into a racquetball sits amidst the rich cornfields in court. The Guardsmen will have the middle of the state. to commute to Eagle Grove, 20 
The general's comment echos miles away, to train. beyond the cornbelt to other But, said Sam Ades, a former states, east and west, when the National Guard master sergeant subje~t of the National Guard who now runs a fast food fran­comes up. At a time when chise, "The closing won't raise a citizen-soldiers are being count­ripple here." ed on to supply half the fire­Recognizing the recruiting power in the event ofwar, public problems that mushroomed with apathy has set in. the end of the draft, National 
"People around here could Guard officials are looking for care less," said Ed Lamson ofthe new incentives to fill the ranks c Chamber of Commerce in the 3,300 Guard units in 2,600 Webster City, a city settled by communities. Guard ranks are German and Scandinavian far­84 percent filled, with about mers. "This seems to be a time in 351,000 troops, but the turnover American history when we don't is high, as much as 46 percent in have much spirit anymore." Indiana last year. 
Little interest was exhibited Yet, a worsening world situ­here when the Iowa governor ation has placed a greater defense announced his proposal to close burden on the militia than ever the Webster City armory and 17 before. Guard units are now more of the 55 in the state expected to be on the front lines because of lagging recruiting. overseas within 90 days to re­The people of Webster City inforce the all-volunteer regular shrugged and went on their own Army. In addition, the Guard is way. frequently ~ailed on to help in 
times of natural disasters, civil For three decades the red brick disturbances; and other emer­armory has been a landmark on gencies. 
Placement Bureau requests 
Many employers who will be interviewing on campus this M:mester have requested that the Placement Bureau mail them profiles of students from particular majors for consideration prior to their interview date. If you wish to be one of those considered, your completed profile must be returned to the Placement Bureau by Friday. 

... Lucey 

(continued from page 1) 
As campaign chairman, Tighe 
said he has been working to bring 
Anderson to campus since last 
October. He hopes there will be 
an enthusiastic response to 
Lucey's appearance. 
This is the first appearance ofa 
major 1980 presidential candi­
date on the Notre Dame campus. 
Fr. Hesburgh has received no 
reply from Reagan or Bush with 
regard to his invitation, but 
President Carter has declined 
due to other commitments. 
According to Richard Conklin, 
Director of Information Ser­
vices, the University is still 
hoping for a positive reply from 
Vice-President Mondale. 

Gateway to a great way of life. 

J 
j 
j 
The Observer Wednesday, September 24, 1980-page 6 
... Diversity 


plenty ofpeople on campus who Film Festival, "Bring a Friend
(conti'nued from page 4) 

speak Spanish if one feels the Dinner" and Spanish Masses. 
such as "Mexican-Americans: need. She says the grounds­The social activities are limited Who Are They?" or "Irish keepers and dining hall workers purposely so that membersdon't Americans: Who Are They?" are "neat people-everyone feel stifled: "We want to be part 
"If we had a better self­should get to know them. We of Notre Dame, but we want to awareness of each other, maybe owe a lot to them-they make keep our heritage," saidJosie. · society would be better. After all, the place look nice. They work However, this is not the view we came to Notre Dame to learn hard. I'd like to see some oftheir of all Mexican-American stu­from other people -not just children here some day." dents at Notre Dame. As one books," she said. Martha would like to see more student from Texas said, "No 
Sophomore MarthaJimenez is Mexican-American professors­one is going to take my heritage a member of MECHA, also. and more women. away from me." While he misses 
. Though her parents speak "I think I profit oftwo cultures his family and Mexican cooking, English at home, Martha is bi­-American and Mexican. I he doesn't feel a need for lingual-Spanish was the flrs1· would like to see the Mexican­MECHA. language she learned. She speak~ American students here come Frank M. Castillo is another Spanish with her grandmother. together." example of how background "Family ties are very important," Her idea ofMECHA would be shapes one's self-image. Frank is she said, "there is a respect fm "a club of all Hispanics to make from Munster, Indiana, and was culture and old-age." people aware that there is a large raised in a typical suburban This was one reason thatNotre Hispanic population on campus. environment. He is from an Dame at first seemed out of "It is a fascinating, beautiful, English-speaking home and his reach for her. It was a great colorful culture," she said. "We peers didn't speak Spanish. His distance for someone with the want to increase awareness. I'm background is not that of the close family ties she has. Also, proud to be a Mexican­typical Mexican-American she said,"Notre Dame isn't American.'' student at Notre Dame. known for minorities-there One way to contribute to this He said that he could see where aren't many women." needed diversity is through Mexican-Americans from Cal­Ironically, what prompted her MECHA. While MECHA is a ifornia, New Mexico, and Texas to apply to Notre Dame was that national organization, the group might experience some adjust­a Notre Dame catalog fell on her on campus is not affiliated with ment problems. But, being a head while she was cleaning a the national movement. Mid-westerner he never had such shelf in her room. "It was a sign," Itis notapolitical organization. problems. she laughed. While all of the approximately "I always knew I was Mexican, Martha said that she had felt no one hundred Mexican-American but there was no conscious Abanner over Breen-Phillips advertises the Urban Plunge. Applications "blatant culture shock." 4students at Notre Dame are adjustment. I'm bilingual, I still are due by October 3. (photo by Helen Odar.) 
"The people are super here -members, whether passive or have close ties with Mexico." · but I did feel Mexican food active, there are roughly twenty Junior George Santos of San withdrawal." She misses the active members. Antonio is of still another back­food, saying that the cafeterias The group does volunteer ground George is not from a can only try and that "there is work in South Bend at the La Mexican-American community. 
... Critne 

nothing at Kroger's." Casa neighborhood program. It He is from an English-speaking Like Josie, Martha missed the also organizes cultural events on home. language but says there are campus, such as the Chicano A simple difference between 

WANTED -Senior Arts Festival Chairman Please call Student Union Office (6244) for appointment Interviews will be Thurs. 9/25 
Contemporary Arts Notre Dame Student Union 

Phoenix Make more of your weekend with 
00 
great rates on great GM cars (-;ood from noonThurs through noon a day • Monday. Car comes with full tank of gas. Just pay for gas used and return • car to renting location Discounts do
S·l 6 

(continued from page 1)
George and Josie would be in to make a statement at this particular time since the matter is beingtheir use of the word "Chicano." 

investigated now," Luther said.
Josie uses the word interchange­Rakow said i:he theft at Cavanaugh occurred Saturday afternoonably with the term "Mexican­during the Michigan game. The room from which the cash was takenAmerican." Yet for George, was not locked. He explained the room's door had just been replacedthough a lot of good has com~ 

and a lock had not yet been installed
from the Chicano movement, it Rakow added that the thefts in Morrissey occurred between 3:30-8still has racial overtones. 

a.m. Sunday. The doors of the students' rooms were not locked,George takes the Chicano 
according to Security's reports. 
movement as a reaction to the The Assistant Security director said an officer is investigating theblack movement. He is not a thefts. "It appears there may have been a description of a couple ofmember ofMECHA. While Josie 

people given," Rakow commented. 
has seen discrimination and There appears to be no connection between the Cavanaugh andprejudice in her barrio, George Morrissey crimes, but that possibility has not been entirely ruled out.

has "never, ever been discrimi­"It could be the same people, but we couldn't tie the thefts togethernated against. 

by time of day," Rakow explained. 
"In a way, though," he said, "I Segatto said that some occupants where asleep in their rooms when wish I had suffered some dis­the thefts occured. "Whoever it is is really, really gutsy," hecrimination to better understand speculated.

the Chicano movement." 

Timothy McDevitt, General Counsel for the University, yesterday (continued on page 7) explained that Notre Dame is not liable in cases such as these. 
"The University position has been that there is no liability for this sort ofthing.How do you prove that $500 was taken and how do you know someone actually took it?" McDevitt explained. 
Segatto, however, said Morrissey was holding a hall meeting last night, during which time the thefts would be discussed. "We're just trying to tell people to lock their doors because there might be a thief in the hall," he said. 
Rakow stressed that the best preventive students can take for campus theft is simply "locking the doors whenever they leave their rooms." 
not apply 
Unlimited Mileage Michiana Regional Airport -We try harder. 
South Ben(f , ln. 234-1024 AvisfeaturesGMcarsandtrucks. 

Arepresentative of the Graduate School of Business Administration will be on Campus· 
Monday, October 6, 
to discuss the Duke MBA Prqgram. 

Interested students mayobtainfurther J nformation by contacting 
1 the Placement Office. 
,-~~~----~-----~-~--------~ 
The Observer Wednesday, September 24, 1980-page 7 
... Diversity 
.. 
(continued from page 6 
Because of his background, George did not have the sam~ adjustment problems other Mexican-American students may have had. George represents the other end of the spectrum of Mexican-American students, but he does feel the kinship bonds that are characteristic of 
Mexican-Americans. 
The "compadre bond"-the taking of someone into a family so that they become like a blood relation -is very strong in Mexican-American culture. 
Pat Leonardo, Assistant Director of Admissions, noted that this kinship bond is a hindrance in the recruitment of Mexican-American students. Leonardo said that this bond, along with the geographical distance from home, means "we will have to be more aggressive to get the student." 
According to Leonardo, Notre Dame has a good reputation with Mexican-Americans and His­panics in general because there is a "natural relationship" in Catholicism. He also noted that the university is starting to work with Hispanic alumni this year to increase recruiting effectivness. 
Leonardo also feels the univer­
sity did a good job with the funds 
available for financial aid. Josie 
and Marty agreed, saying, though 
their packages "weren't great", it 
was the best that the university 
could provide. 
"There is a strong commit­ment in the Admissions Office," Leonardo said. 

By Cindy McAfee 
Tlmea Staff Writer 
A mask worked for the Green Hornet. The phantom has been wearing one for years. 
And professional wrestlers like the Masked Marvel use them as part of ther acts. 
Supposedly masks help make these entertainers famous while disguising them at the same time. It stands to reason if a mask would work for them it might work for a singer, too. 
Orion Eckley Darnell, who prefers to be known simply as Orion, is a singer who will appear Saturday at the Morris Civic Auditorium. He never parts with his mask. He says he's too ugly to take it otT. 
But his mask is only what this singer calls his "trademark." And it's only a small part of his image. This 6-3, slim, dark-haired pro­tege of Shelby Singleton, owner of Sun Records, sounds exactly like Elvis Presley, singing or talking. 
But despite persistent rumors that Orion is Elvis incarnate, te singer says it isn't so. 


Future domerspractice trudging to classes, complete with ND emblazenedbookstore appareL (photo by Helen 
Odar.) 
But that doesn't mean that his 
record company isn't taking ad­
vantage of his uncanny resem­
blance to the King. 
Orion is merely the singer's stage name. His character is based on a novel called Orion written in 1977, according to CountryStyle magazine. 
The book's main character, 
Orion Eckley Darnell, is a super­
star who lives a fishbowl life due 
to his fans' adoration. He grows 
tired of it and stages his own 
death, turning to the life of a 
recluse after fooling the world. 
But, he finds the life of a recluse 
boring, too, and takes to the stage 
agaitf. 

According to an interview with the author, Gail Brewer-Giorgio, in CountryStyle, she received a :telephone call in 1978 from a caller named Orion. Although she tried to convince the caller that there was no such person, that the character was merely in her imagination, the caller insis­ted "I am Orion and I was born 
today!" 
"I remember that day," said 
Sally Smash of Sun Records. "It 
was wild." 

She says Orion's past is kept 
deliberately hazy and that she really knows very little about him. She does know that he is a ·singer signed to fit the part of the 
Elvis-like character. 
· "The author of the book is 
being very cooperative in helping 
with the promotion," she said. 
During a telephone interview, 
Orion said he had known Ms. 
Giorgio before she wrote the 
book, after a quick consultation 
with someone in Shelby Single­
ton's office. 
Although he tries to keep his 
past vague, he says he's been 
"singing in the shower since I was 
a little boy" and has sung in 
church many times. 
He's a bit touchy about his 
mask and says that "nine out of 
10 people don't care about the 
mask. It's just part of the trade­
mark, like Kiss. They wear 
paint." He added that one of the 
mask's purposes is to keep his 
personal life separate from his 
professional identity. 
He says he writes some of his 
own music, "when the mood 
strikes me," and that he plays the 
guitar. He especially enjoys aud­
ience participation in his act. 
He's unmarried and says he's 
"23 and holding" and doesn't 
really mind the Elvis rumors, 
though he doesn't believe the 
King staged his own death. The 
magazine articles linking him 
with the late performer don't 
bother him "as long as they spell 
my name right." 

Reagan. charges 
Carter 
(AP)-Ronald Reagan charged President Carter with indecent political behavior yes­terday, while John B. Anderson .;aid the commander-in-chief was using "scare tactics" for claiming that the election this fall comes down to a choice between war and peace . 
The President's spokesman, Jody Powell, conceded Carter was guilty of an "overstatement of the case." 
But he also said the President feels his Republican opponent should "address himself to the implications" of what he said about previous statements cal­ling for U.S. military interven­tion overseas. 
Carter himself, meanwhile, outlined a policy of "strict neu­trality" in the conflict between Iran and Iraq, and urged other nations to follow his lead 
Campaigning in Reagan's na­tive California and in Oregon, Carter said there is no indication that American hostages in Iran have been affected by the hostil­ities between the two Middle East neighbors. 
The President issued a state­ment encouraging all countries, "including the Soviet Union, not to interfere with this conflict." 
But what triggered charges from his opponents was Carter's 
(continued on page 13) 

Orion will be at the Morris Civic Auditorium ,Sept. 27 at 8:30pm 
This is a benefit for the S_alvation Army Christmas Fund. 
Tickets can be purchased in advance at River Ci1y Records 
and at theMorris CMc Box Office for $6.00 &$4.00 
THE OIUON FAN CLUI/ DIXIELAND JI06 IELMONT IOULEVAID 
S8.00&S6.00atthedoor
TENNt:UEE l121l 
~ -------~ 
---~--­

The Observer Wednesday, September 24, 1980-page 8 
UT CLASS WITH EVELYN WOOD 
--"':.0"/n WocxJ Reading Dynamics invites you to a free Lesson. It's the first lesson in our remarkable 7 week course ...and you're invited FREE of . You'll not only learn about reading faster and better, but you'll also learn: 
HOW TO TAKE BETTER NOTES HOW TO IMPROVE YOUR STUDY TECHNIQUES HOW TO TAKE TESTS 
HOW TO COMPREHEND AND REMEMBER MORE OF WHAT YOU READ HOW TO REDUCE STUDY TIME 
is actually the first lesson of the Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics course ...AND IT'S FREE' You're under absolutely no obligation when attend. 

class work In haH with Evelyn Wood. Come to a Free Reading Lesson at: 
t 

A.C. C. Rootn C-129 
Evelyn Wood 
Reading Today&Tomorrow 3:30&7:00p Dynamics 
! 

The Observer Wednesday, September 24, 1980 .. page 9 
~ I 

STORE HOURS, Mon. thru Thun. S A.M.. \0 P.M. Fri. &Sat. s A.M.· II P.M. 
r;19 wa,,ii:.' ,,?EJ
* 1621 South Bend Ave.* 200 N. Main St. 
SOUTH BEND, 233-4603 ELKHART, 295-6310
* 6502 Grape Rd. * 254 Dixie Hwy. North 
MISHAWAKA, 277-7176 ROSELAND, 272-2522 
t:I I :11: t;! iI :t :; tl .;* 1426 Mishawaka Ave. v/S.4· 
~ j 287-7744 . .
* 2934 E. McKinley Ave. Piek 
233-9466 
Up Your

* 4401 S. Michigan 
291-2600 
Spirits And

* 1725 N. Ironwood 
272-7144 
Enjoy_ Lower Priees! WINES 
~!:~c~usco ......... 1soM1. 2 29 

2 99
::~~RIA ............ 
uter 

J~h~~~~~.............. 750 MI..99 
CARL~ne~h~I~~~Mountain 399 
BuriJUIIdy. Pink Chabli1, Vin Roae-' Sanrria, Liahl Chianti, Paiaano .. ~.

1750 MI. I 
Prices Effective Thru 


A#Z;~ Anheuser us 
Natural Light 
z41lZOz· 
~ttfJ 
CaRl 
V 
. ' 

... 
. .. 

• o I I I It 
••• !I 


Editorials 
Wednesday, September 2~, 1980-page 1 
N.D.S.G. :To be continued • • • 
Despite whispered rumors to the contrary, this year's Student Qovernment has been alive and well. 
However, like any bureaucratic machine, it has taken us a while to get rolling. If every hour we've spent in meetings had tangible results, I'd be a lot happier and we'd all be much better off. Unfor­tunately, I'm not any happier and none of us is any better off. However, the ~eeds for change have been sown, and with a little more attention they'll soon sprout. 
The long-awaited plan for a Student Senate will be unveiled at the Board of Commissioners meeting this Sunday. We've taken constructive criticism from last week's meeting and have added 

insights from an historical analysis .F====================================================I 
covering the evolution of ND Student Government to our own 
~~:: ~~:c~~ewg~~ee~7::~~~~-the 
The final proposal of the com­mittee will suggest a· Senate of about 25 persons and will include representation from the HPC, Off­Campus, Class Officers, some members from the present Board of Commissioners and a group of eight senators to be selected from four districts on campus. In the future -hopefully after this fall break -the Senate will allocate resources, formulate and advance student policy, and present sound proposals to the University Ad­ministration. 
This will be the ad hoc commit-tee's final recommendation; how­ever, it will still be subject to 
change by  the  Board  of Com­ 
missioners.  If  it  meets  their  
approval,  the  reconstituted  

Constitution will be sent to the HPC for further debate. 
After that, we will hold several forums to receive more student input. Finally, the new constitu­tion will be submitted to the Student Body for approval by a two-thirds majority vote. 
No doubt the most immediate concern for Student Government this year has been the off-campus situation; here there is no simple solution. Off-Campus Commis­sioner Mark Kelley faces th~ difficult prospect of bringing together five groups (students, landlords, South Bend residents, university administration and South Bend police). 
But if we are to make any real progress it is clear that we the students must take the initiative. This Thursday, September 25, there will be a gathering of students concerned about their own safety. There will be speakers from the police department giving security advice, year-round resi­dents of the northeast neighbor­hood giving neighborly advice and beaten (literally) students giving healthy advice. 
In addition, there will be renter's insurance available, along with "Halt," a mace-like spray used by postmen to stop dogs in their tracks. There ·will also be a meeting between students, !arid­lords and administration tentatively scheduled for October 7. . 
No matter how you look at off­campus problems, it is obvious that many of them are caused by on-campus living conditions. 
For example, the towers now house almost 600 students apiece with a maximum party room capacity of 150. Even before St. Ed's burned, there was a lack of on-campus housing and social space. 
Furthermore, outlets that underclassmen used to have open are now unavailable: The Joe~! college bars are being harrassed; Michigan is now a "21" state; and section parties are, for the most part, outlawed. The result is that students have been flocking to the off-campus parties. 

ln response to this situation, Student Union, the social branch of Student Government, is spon­soring a Block Party on the north quad this Friday, a punk rock party in Stepan on October 3, and other campus-wide activities after break (for example, Halloween costume party, Sadie Hawkins Dance). 
However, such solutions are only short-term; we need a place to kick back and relax, such as a coffee house with live entertain­ment and a mellow atmosphere at all times. 
Instead of the Engineering Auditorium, we need a real movie theater. We need a bowling alley on campus and a swimming pool to splash around in (not one that more closely resembles the Indy 500). 
We're not necessarily asking for a huge complex that some say would become a white elephant. Modular student centers would be perfectly fine, but we need faci­lities -and fast! 
Don Murday, Carroll Hall President and SG Executive Coordinator, is heading up the push for more social centers on­campus. At the last Board of Trustees meeting, the problem was identified and recognized. When the next meeting in October 
P.J. Riehle 
comes around, we shall demand 
immediate action. 
The Student Senate, off-campus crime and social space are, no doubt, our biggest concerns. How­ever, Student Body Vice President Don Ciancio and myself remain true to our platform, and with the help ofour cabinet, much headway has already been made in fulfilling our goals. 
But for the present, I've run out of time and The Observer is out of space; for now, file this article under "To be continued." Next week you'll getmore exciting info on the accomplishments and inten­tions of those hard-working yokels that we're proud to call our Cabinet. 
"'T"f'b b• 

. '.L ~ e tgges 
' 
WASHINGTON -The big­gest lie in the world is, "The checkiis in the mail" -except during an ,election year, and then you get !SQIDe whoppers to top ::ven that. 
"I promise, ifl am elected, thai 1you will get a tax cut, and I wil' 1also balance the budget." 
"When I become president, the Russians will know we mean business." 
: "I guarantee that everyone who wants to work will have a job." 
"I will give you less govern­ment -not more government." 
"My goal is to see that all the people get medical care at a price they can afford." 
"Let's make no mistake about this. I am for the farmer." 
"My first priority will be to see that everyone gets decent housing at reasonable interest rates." 
"I intend to take strong meas­
ures to insure that every worker in 1this country shares in the fruits of :his labor." 
"My first concern is to cut red 

· tape, and to encourage business to make profits so we will have a strong economy and compete with 
t J • • h ld
Jtes tn t e wor ArtBuchwald 
overseas imports." "I will not appoint anyone to public office for political reasons." 
"My vice president will be in on all my decisions." 
"I will work closely with Congress and keep them advised about every foreign policy deci­sion I make." 
"My staff will be kept to a minimum and my door will be open to the Cabinet members at all times." 
"The sick and the elderly wjll have someone in the White House who cares about them." 
"I intend to take the high road in this campaign and not deal in personalities." 
"I will never lie to you." 

"The only reasonj have sought this office is that I believe the country needs leadership." 
"This is the best kosher frank­furter I've ever tasted." 
"I would say, with a few excep­tions, that the media has treated me fairly." 
"I intend to rebuild every American city in this country." 
Doonesbury 
NOT a4V. I
JU5TGRE/fi! 
5P8NTTHE
fW IIJA5 
LA'3T l:.rli<TOF
'faR SUM­
MER.? 
\ 


Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Toe Obseroer is an independent newspaper published by rhe srudenrs of rhe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. lr does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the.Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views of their authors. Column SJ?ace is available to afl members of the community, and the free expression of varymg opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
rTWITH MOM. 
' 

"Anyone m my adimmstration who commits an impropriety will be immediately dismissed." 
"My first act in office will be to make us self-sufficient in energy." 
"No one will go hungry as long as I am president." 
"Make no mistake about this. I'm for the small businessman." 
"I will see to it that women are treated as equals with men in job opportunities, pay and respect." 
"I have spoken to the people and I have listened to what they have to say." 
"This is the best chicken gumbo I've ever tasted." "I can't do the job without your prayers." 
"I can't do the job unless you elect Hap Gable as congressman from this district." 
"Make no mistake about this. 

I'm for the American Indian." 
"I read a book about Abraham 

Lincoln last night and I came 
across this passage." 
"It doesn't matter to me per­sonally if I win or lose, but it does matter to this great country of ours." 
"I know what it's like to be poor." 
"My remarks were misconstrued by the press, and I had no intention of offending anyone." 
"Make no mistake about this. I'm for the coal miner." 

"If I am elected, I listen to the best minds in this country." "This is the best enchilada I've ever tasted." 
by G.B. Trudeau 
ENOIK3H 7HATMUST SMAU TALJ<. HAVI38EEN ANYN&W /~NG. MEN? 
\ \ 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief............ Paul Mullaney Managing Editor .............. Mark Rust Editorials Editor ........... Mike Onufrak Senior Copy Editor ......... Lynne Daley News Editor .............. Pam Degnan -.f.-.:ecutzve'Vews Editor .. Tom Jackman 
SMC &ecutive Editor .. Margie Brassil 
SMC News Editor ........... Mary Leavitt 
Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe Photo Editor .................. John Macor 
Business Manager ......... Greg Hede:es Production Manager... John McGrath 
I 0 'I I I I '•
•. . ' '. ...·.;. 


------~-------------------­
lhe~====================================== 
Toda~====)=====W=edn=esd=ay='=Se=pt=em=ber=2=4.=19=80=·=pag=e1=1 
1.00 OFF! 
Campus 

!2:15pm -microbiology dept. seminar -''dna poly­merases from histoplasma capsula tum," dr. george boguslawski, miles labs. galvin auditorium. 
3:30pm -chemical engi­neering seminar -"com­puter-aided modeling of reaction networks," prof. warren e. stewart, u. ofwise. ­madison 356 fitzpatrick. 
3:30pm -aero and me­chanical engineering semin­ar -"stratified cycle coun­ting, prof. randall sadowski, purdue univ. 303 cushing hall. 
4:15pm-economics dept. lecture -"inflation & the crisis in economic theory II)" joan robinson, cambridge u. galvin aud. 
4:30pm-sailing club b-bq at the boathouse -all mem­bers welcome. 
6:30pm -sailing dub meeting with movie, "ad­vanced sailing. techniques," at the boathouse on st. joe's lake. 
7pm -smc campus min­istry meeting for those in­terested in liturg-ical minis­try in smc clubhouse. 
9pm -open stage at the nazz. 
SURE 
Students United for Responsible Energy (SURE) will hold a general meeting tonight at 10 p.m. in the basement of LaFortune, the Nazz. The meet­ing is to discuss which energy issue the group will focus on this year. 
College reps. 
The College Republicans of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will-hold a very important meet­ing this Wednesday at 6:30p.m. in LaFortune Ballroom. All Republicans and volunteers are encouraged to attend. 
John Hiler, Republican cand­
idate for 3rd District Congress 
will meet with the public prior to 
th~ meeting, at 6:15 p.m. 
THENAZZ 
Molarity 
.TIM ,You'VE __ 



-~ ··~ . .c-­

Peanuts 

HOW CAN I WRITE A WHOLE PAGE ON UL~SSES GRANT? 


The Daily Crossword 

Michael Molinelli 

Charles Schultz 
.WELL, L{QU CAN WRITE 616, OR ~OU CAN DO SOME HARD RESEARCH 

ACROSS 27 Pain 1 Dltchor reliever straw 28 City on the 5 Nothing: Mississippi 
Lat. 32 Creek fish 10 Luminary 35 Ruler: abbr. 14 Oriental 38 Gemstone 
nurse 
37 Leave out · 15 Make Into 38 Pinguid law 40 Lat. abbr. 18 Injection, 41 Suffuses for short with light 
17 Pit 44 Wreath 18 Fields 48 Grand slam 19 Son of 47 Fixed 
Aphrodite 48 Turning 
20 Ms Mldler tool 22 Mo. 50 Metal 23 Habitat 51 American 24 Stain essayist 
26 Gnawed 54 Tearful one 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

4 Country· western hit 
5 Sch.org. 
8 Partof some addresses 
7See4D 8 Jack Frost 9 Army men: 
abbr. 10 See4D 11 Novice 12 Footless 13 Rambler 57 Cobba 
Hardin 58 Boss 80 Italian 

commune 81 Egyptian descendants 
63 Supreme Court number 
84 Laborer 85 Puts up money 68 Havea 
session 87 Plant 68 Cpmes close 89 Other 
DOWN 1 Woollyone 2 Frlendsln 
Montmartre 

• 
note 23 Over 25 Liner's 
letters 28 Morning times 29 "-each life.•." 
30 Patricia 
of films 31 She: Fr. 32 Movesup 
and down 33 He loves: 
Lat. 34 Locale 39 Trucker 42 MsAdams 4'3 Thesaurus 
entry: abbr. 45 Descendant suff. 49 Title 
letters 52 Bay window 53 Geeseof 
Hawaii 54 Snoozes 55 Answerto 
anexplana· 
tlon 58 Amerlnd 57 Musical , 
sound 59 Plexus 81 Discharge 82 Draft board 
letters 


Friday 26th 10:00Dan Osborn 1 I :OQjazz Combo 
Saturday 27th 9:00 Mark Bastamante Jim Bastamante Kevin .Ouinlan 
Joe.Rodriguez 11:00 TOBEANNOUNl7ED 
" 

The Observer Wednesday, September 24, 1980-page 12 


Notre Dame's Kevin Lovejoy displays excellentfootwork as he advances the ball downfield as opponents look on. (photo by Helen Odar) 
Notre Dame Soccer 
Notre Dame 4, Sienna Heights 1 
I 

,. 




The Notre Dame Marching Bandcontinues to practice dtligently in preparationfor the Michigan State game, October 4.) 





RANDALL'S NEW CENTURY INN 
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL out of state 800 348 -2412 "" In Indiana 219 272 7900 
15% DISCOUNT ON OUR ROOM RATES 

FORTHE'ENTIRE NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY (eicluding special events) 
lMIL.E OF THEloLL ROAD EXiT ON US. 
Ac. c. box office and River Cily Records. 
For further Info., call 50970 u.s 31 North,
CHINESE-AMERICAN CUISINE / LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
The Observer 

Liturgy 
The Notre Dame Center for Pastoral Liturgy has announced a series of workshops for 1980-81 on liturgy and pastoral life. Clergy, religious and laity, min­isters and scholars, are invited to participate in the programs of learning, reflection and plan­ning. 
The workshops include: -"Preparing Advent and Christmas," Oct. 19-24 -"Liturgy in Religious Communities," Nov. 9-14 -"Preparing Lent," Jan. 25­30, 1981 -"Preparing Holy Week," Feb. 22-27, 1981 -"Christian Initiation," May 7-11' 1981 All workshops except one will be held at the Fatima Retreat 
For further informaon, con-· tact Bro. James Field, C.F.X., Notre Dame Center for Pastoral Liturgy, Box 81, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

SAVE YOUR LIFE! PROTECT YOUR VALUABLES! 
Important Off-Campus meeting Thursday 7:30 pm Engineering Auditorium 
Mandatory for your survival! 
All invited (even on-campus students) 
(continued from page 7) 
statement the night before that the election would decide "whether this nation will make progress or go backwards and whether we have peace or war." 
First Reagan declared the pres­ident was guilty of "inconceiv­able" and "unforgivable" state­ments. 
"To accuse that anyone would deliberately start a war is beneath decency," said Reagan, who told his audience in Carter's native South that he has seen four wars in his own lifetime. 
In a new charge of his own, Reagan added that Carter "lacks the vision and the will necessary to restore America's margin of safety and to preserve a genuine world peace." 
Reagan's running mate chimed in with his own criticism. Campaigning in Illinois, George Bush said, "I don't think the 
...Charges 
American people are going to buy that insinuation" (from the president). 
Anderson launched his attack from Harrisburg. Pa., where he declared:"the choice is not peace or war." 
He said voters face a decision about which candidate can set the best foreign policy. "To suggest anything less than that is to demean the conduct of the campaign," he said. 
Anderson, whose attacks on Carter have intensified in recent days, added, "I will not condone any effort on the part of the president to use scare tactics to suggest that the election in November is a choice between peace and war." 
In a television interview in Los Angeles before he learned of either of his rivals' comments, the president reportedly said he did not intend to imply that Reagan would start a war. 

Wednesday, September 24, 1980-page 13 
.... QB 

(continued}rom page 14) 
"Second ... to when I got drafted-when I knew I had a job," Thompson said. 
Gregg said Monday that the Bengals had their best week of practice the season preparing for the Pittsburgh game. 
"Last week was the best week in practice I can ever remember a team having-and I was still scared to death," Gregg said. "Guys really had great concen­tration on what they were doing. I think they gained some con­fidence from the two heartbreak­ing losses at the beginning. 
"It was like they were saying, Hey, we're not half bad.' It's still early in the season-three 
...Items 
(continued from page 16) 
LIGHTS, CAMERA, DIGGER-NBC and TVS have an­nounced tentative TV dates for five Irish basketball games this season. The January lOth battle at .Marquette inaugurates Notre Dame's new TV season, with episodes planned at Maryland Ganua~y 24, 1:30 EST), in the ACC against UCLA (February 8, 2:00 EST), and against Virginia (February 22, 2:00 EST) and DePaul March 8, 1:45 EST). 
The latter two cont~sts will be played at the HorizonArena in Rosemont, a northern suburb ofChicago. The Virginia game is Notre Dame's home-and home series with the Cavliers while the Horizon is DePaul's new home court, the Blue Demons having finally outgrown legendary Alumni Hall. 
The two Horizon games are both scheduled for Sunday afternoons, which normally means a national TV appearance. The other three games are Saturdays, which may be either regional or national contests. 
ADD END-Belated birthday wishes to Bruce Springsteen, who turned 31 yesterday (it may not b€ sports, but some things are more important...) 



1637 lincoln Way West -South lend. Indiana 46628 
Sl.OOOFF 

------------------.---.-------­
ANY CtJT AND STYLE 
WITH ND/SMC ID expires October 8, 1980 
games into it-and a lot can happen.'' 
PeteJohnson, who had lost his starting fullback job to second­year year man Charles Alexander, may have regained it with his hard running. He led Cincinnati rushers with 19 car­ries for 65 yards. 
"This was a game I felt we had to win," Johnson says. "I said before the game, 'We're going to win today if I have to do it myself.' 
"I was hoping I'd get to carry the ball. For our passing game to go, we've got to establish our running game. I'm just glad I could be a part of it.'' 


, ._,. 
The Observer Wednesday, September 24, 1980-page 14 
Attention sports staffers .· There willbe amandatory meeting Thurs., Sept. 25at 6-:30p.m. Third Roor LaFortune Please bring ideasfor the Michigan State supplement Newcomers welcome I 
Refrigerators 
dorm room size students rates CALL 
TAYLOR 
RENTAL 
277-2190 

1427N. Ironwood 
HERTZ 
ECONOMY FARES, 
WEEKENDS 
FROM$17.99 A DAY. 
Ca11234-3712 


LAST CHANCE for Fall SCUBA Classes Classes begin Thursday, Sept. 25 7:00pm 
LaFortune Room 2D Bring $30deposit 
Onlya few openings left fot the 
Thanksgiving Carribean trip! 
Call272-8607or 272;.9780 
America's most popular microcomputer system­the TRS-ao·~-now at popular prices. Save on Model I 16K level II BASIC system! Includes vtdeo mon1tor. cassette recorder and powerful. budt-1n Level II BASIC wuh full keyboard. Has expans100 port lor u.se w1th optional expans1on Interlace, d1sk dr1ves. pnnters and other penpherals 
S100 Below list price! $749 
Your microcomputer headquarterS AM E~ectron,cs 15 the only mdependem computer spec,ar,sr '" town wh•ch alters you reasonable pr.ces 
Cumf'"' Hwn 1Jf11/ ~~·t 11 ··hum/1 '"l.. lor,J, 111 IJII'IIIil 11Jim•1 I!J. 1• tltt'\t': 
TRS-80'" L_ower case modification Microtek MY-80 parallel printerCh_aracter generator chtp. With 9 x 7 dot mamx, adrustable Modell MPI51 40-track disk drive 
InsTalled. The REAL lhmg. $4996 tractor feed, 132 columns $775 Wtlh case. power supply
and extender cable $350 

8-inch disk drives for Model land 11 TRS-80'" Model II 64K single disk Expands disk storage for drivf! system Modell MPI91 SO-track disk dnve. 
•mhanced capab•hues. $695 Ideal for many grow11'ig busmesses W11h case. power suppl~ and ready to expand as you do and extender cable. $5_60 
STORE HOURS: S249 below litt pricol $3650 
232-2441
Tuesday-Fnday 11-7 

LiJD
~Saturday 11-5 ~ A.M. 
Evenings

IBII Electronics 
Complete in·store Micrbcomputers service facility! for personal and busineu un. 
the final word when he moves under the ball. Jaworski said he especially likes Monday night football. 
"It's the greatest thing in the country," said the one-time Youngstown State quarterback. "I know the guys in the bars are rooting for me and I don't want· to let them down." 
Jaworski, now in his fourth season with the Eagles, admits that Vermeil has spoon fed him. 
"Now he's turned me loose. He feels I've matured," Jaworski observed. 
"I've had a lot of breaks go against me in my time. Now I'll take 'em while they're going for me," Jaworski said. 
What is the difference be­tween this year's Eagles and the 11-5 team that went two games into the 1979 playoffs? 
"We're more aggressive on offense, the coach . has confi­dence in me and our different formations. We're going after people, "nd the coach has con­fidence we can stop the other teams'f unning game,"Jaworski 
_sa_id_._·:::========
.. 
Women's tennis slats-­
After 7 Matches 
PLAVER SINGLES DOUBLES TOTAL 
Linda Hoyer  4-1  7-'i.  11-3  
Cindy Schuster 8-1  1-3 9-4  
Pam FischeHe  6-0  7-0  13-0  
Carol Shukis  8-1  2-3  10-4  
Mary Legeay  6-0  5-0 11-0  
Peggy Walsh  7·1  1·0 8-1  
Tina Stephan  2-0  7-2  9-2  
Sheila Cronin  4-0  3-0  7-0  
Stasla Obrem  2-0  5-0  7-0  
skey  
sue PraH  3-0  3-0  6-0  

the Houston Oilers. 
leadsCincy 
ONCINNATI (AP)-Coach Forrest Gregg is impressed with the way quarterback Jack Thompson came off the bench Sunday to lead the-Cincinnati Bengals to an upset victory over the National Football League champion Pittsburgh Steelers. But it's too early for starter Ken Anderson to concede his job. 
"Jack Thompson helped our cause and his Sunday," Gregg 
says. "I don't know what Kenny's ssituation is. Youwould like to have him because he's been playing well and moving the team. ButI thinkJack gained a lot of confidence from this game. He's gotten better every week." 
Anderson aggravated the stretched ligament in his left 
If that's the case, Thompson will get his second start of the season -both times because of injuries to Anderson. And he seems to have convinced several veteran teammates that he's ready to step in. 
"I thought Jack played ex­tremely well. There were a lot of key things Jack did that people don'tnotice," wide receiver Isaac Curtis says. He was particularly impressed with the way Thompson stayed in the pocket to throw him a touchdown pass despite heavy pressure. 
"He was being pursued, but he hung in there and waited instead of dumping it off to a running back," Curtis says. "It makes me feel good that he had that con­fidence in me." 
Thompson surprised writers when he said his p·erformance Sunday was only his second greatest sports thrill. 
(continued on page 13) {continued (rom page 16) 

makes a point. Pitt has been skipping along from 
pushover to pushover these last five years, en­
joying national recognition and national honors 
but actually coming no doser to the real national 
powers than watching them play on national TV. 
Just who do they think they're fooling? 
Certainly not the people ofPittsburghwho have 
found a plethora ofexcuses for not buying tickets 
to see the Panthersplay. 44,800 people showed up 
to see their home-opener. Not a bad crowd, but not very encouraging when youconsider that Pitt Stadium holds 56,500 and is located in a met­ropolitan area ofover two million people-most of whom are rabid football fans. 
Hey, the Steelers sell out every game and their tickets are quite a bit more expensive. But, then again, the Steelers are a national power. 
But so are the Panthers. Aren't they? 
The people at Pitt will tell you that the Steelers are a prime reason that people don't go to Pitt games. And that's easy enough to see, isn't it? Whatdoes it matter thatPittplays on Saturdayand the Steelers on Sunday? And tlie fact that last week, when Pitt was at home, the Steelers were on the road is irrelevent. It's obvious that all those people who didn't make the Pittgame were home warming up their TV sets for Sunday's game. 
Seriously, the public relations people at Pittwill have to come up with a better excuse for empty seats than that. Some cities support two 
So what's the real reason people in Pittsburgh blow off Pitt games? It might be because of the weaklings that come to play the Panthers. When Notre Dame visited Pitt Stadium, there wasn't a ticket to be found. Penn State is also a traditional sellout. However the fact remains that Pittdoesn't play enough good teams. Why don't they put an Alabama or a Texas or even a Southern Cal on the schedule. They'll not only sell more tickets, they'll also gain some credibility as a real national contender. 
C'mon, Coach Sherrill. If you wauna be a big boy, you gotta play with the big boys. Besides, what are you worried about? You can handle those guys. 
Can't you? 

Jaworski oozes UJith confidence 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) ­Ron Jaworski says the name of his game is confidence. 
The Philadelphia Eagles' quar­terback isn't talking about self­confidence. He's always had that. He's talking about the faith that Coach Dick Vermeil has in the "Polish Rifle's" ability to throw the ball. 
Vermeil's faith hasn't ·been misplaced. His unbeaten Eagles have won three games, and scored 104 points. Jaworski has triggered this offense with 56 completions on 83 attempts for 755 yards and eight touchdowns. Only two ofhis passes have been intercepted. 
Jaworski says the thing thathas made him a mature field director 
is that his teammates have e­
lected him a captain:­
"It's a great honor. I want to get out there and lead. I've always had confidence in my ability. Some people think I'm cocky. I'm not that at all. I just feel if they ask me to throw 100 passes I can complete 100," Jaworski said. 
The quarterback spoke after 
the Eagles smothered the New 
York Giants 35-3 in the National 
Football League's Monday night 
nationally televised game. 
"We proved ourselves to be a good football team," said Jaworski. "I don't know how far we are from being a great foot­ball team." 
Jaworski threw three touch­down passes against the Giants, completed 18 of29 for 240 yards, with one intercepted. He teamed with running back Wilbert Montgomery to beat the Giants for the lOth straight time since 1975. . 
Montgomery gained 87 yards running and 67 receiving-154 of the Eagles' 382 yards total offense. He was described by New York Coach Ray Perkins as the key to the game, a great . running back who simply thun­ders over the opposition. 
ButJaworski runs this team as ifhe were operating out ofa text book. He calls 10 percent of the plays. The rest come from Vermeil and the coach's aides. ­The quarterback, however, has 
knee in the second quarter of Sunday's game and may miss
YoungQB 
next weekend's game here with 
...Pitt 

•••• .. ••""'"•"•"'-Y'O<-._.t :-·';..·~:<-)'..,.•,;,, J .. ,.r..;• 
---~-----------l 
\'olleyhall
Sports Briefs 
can 3231. 
The Observer Wednesday,September 24, 1980-page M­
us 
a­

---------­Water polo club meet set The Notre Dame water polo club will meet the Purdue Boilermakers Saturday at 10 a.m. in the Rockne Memorial pool. Last Friday the Irish, competing in their first match as a club sport, soundly defeated Western Michigan 16-9. The"A" squad left the pool at halftime with the score at 15-0 and gave the task ofholding the lead to the "B" team. Leading scorer for the Irish ' was Dave Austgen with four goals, while Mike Corbisiero,John Smith and Andy Piskin each contribtited two.  ----------------------------~ NARCsquad winstourney Roemer's NARC Squad Swims Again won the campus innertube water polo tourney when they defeated the Lust Bumbs 14-12 in one of the most exciting games in the tournament. After trailing 9-2 at half, Roemer's team came back to win the match. There were 22 teams (over 250 students) entered in the first-year, double elimination tournament.  WOMEN'S yo\19'fball schedule Oct. 8 at In~ia11a State 10-ll·at St. Francis Tour 13 at St. Joseph's 14 CHICAGO STATE 16 at Manchester, Anderson 27 TAYLOR 29 at St. Mary's, Goshen Nov. at St. Mary's Invitational 4 at Bethel, Purdue-Calum  
JVsquad to host MSU  6 TRI-STATE 13-14 at District Tourney 20-21 at IAIA W  
Notre Dame's junior varsity football unit entertains Michigan State's JV squad in a 1:30 p.m. contest Sunday at Cartier Field. The Irish downed the Purdue junior varsity team 27-7 three weeks ago in West LaFayette. In that season opener freshman John Mosley led the Irish with 79 yards rushing and two touchdowns. Jim O'Hara completed two of three passes for 54 yards, while Kevin Smith connected on all three ofhis attempts for 28 yards. Stacy Toran intercepted a Boilermaker pass and returned it 76 yards for a touchdown. After the game with Michigan State, the junior varsity squad wraps up its fall slate with an October 5 date against the Spartans in East Lansing. Irish ruggers seek revenge TheNotre Dame Rugby Club will host Purdue this Saturday. Game time for the "A" squad is 1 p.m. at Stepan field with the "B" and "C" matches following. Last year the Boilermakers s_wept the Irish at West Layfayette. Army tickets available Student tickets for the October 18 Army football game may be picked up beginning today at the second floor ticket windows in the ACC according to the following schedule: seniors today, juniors and graduate students tomorrow, sophomores on Friday and freshmen on Monday, September 29. Those who cannot make their scheduled pickup date may do so on Tuesday, September 30. Students may pick up as many as four tickets each, as long as they have one classmate's I.D. card per ticket. Students who have not yet purchased tickets for the Army game may still do so. A limited number of tickets remain available for students only. The ticket windows will be open from 8 a.m. through 5 p.m. on each of the pick-up dates listed above.  Stacy Toran, above right, andjohn Mosley, feft, led the Notre Dame]V squad in a 27-7 romp over Purdue three weeks ago. The]V spuad ofthe Irish host the Michigan State ]V squad on Sunday. See story at lift. Belles fall to Goshen The Saint Mary's field hockey team fell to Goshen yesterday afternoon 2-1. Lisa Keeley scored the Belles' only goal in the second half. The 1-4 Belles will host Depauw Saturday, September 27 at 10:30 a.m. Fencingpractice tobegin Practice for novice fencers will begin Monday, September 29 at 7 p.m. in thefencinggymoftheACC. The practice is open to all interested and those wishing to attend should enter through Gate 4.  ...Irish (continued from page 16} experiences, "says Galen, whose team is currently even at 2-2 on the year. "I was really pleased with the strong offense in the Franklin game this weekend. We had a few bad calls againt us but the offense and a good, solid back-up defense carried through. "We had good support from the home crowd and homecom­ing alumni. The team was really pshyched for this one." l Monday's game with Kalamazoo was cancelled due to poor weather conditions, leaving Notre Dame with one other scheduled match against the Michigan school later this sea­son. "I think we have a goOd 'chance based on our performance gainst Division II teams," says Galen of her teams chances for success at the state tournament l.ater this fall, "but with fifteen games remaining, it's still too early to tell." Following the clash with Lake Forest on Friday the Irish will then travel to Ohio Wesleyan on Monday, September 29.  
Classifieds  
Notices For Rent ---------­~nHytorBu~neaa/ FOR RENT: Ugly Duckling Reni·A· _ 1 or grad atudent. Car. Priced from $7.95 a day and lnrereatect In promotion of area seven centa a mile. Phone 255·2323 band. Would entoll area concerts tor reservallona. and midwest region bookings, commlulon talary. call 283·1725 aft. 6:00pm 232·3652 or 234-9246. WantedRID£ OFFERED-Shar• expenses -going eastward on Toll Road to INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASSAlhtabula, OH. leaving lpm,Frl 9· RINGS. Men's $35 • $85 and up. Free 26 Call x6436 betw 9·5 Alk lor House Calls. 255-2-402Debbie F. -­--­INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASSEpllcopal Studenblntereated In on RINGS. Men's $35 • $85 and up. Free or oil campus services, contact house calls. 255·2402.Bob MMIII. 4459, or Fr. Leatherbury at St. Mlcha.la, 232·3659. Please lfa time to alar! thinking aboutleave nam• and phone. October break... So, I'm looking tor rtdera going back to ciKIIral NewNEED RIDE TO DAYTONA BEACH. FlA Jeraey, preferably In Somers•!FOR BREAK. CALL DAMIAN AT 1005. County. If you want to drtve back with me, call John at 3106 (or maybe 17151ale at night). Lost/Found For Sale LOST CALCULATOR CASto MODEL JELLS TIME AND DAlE WASA GIFT 2222 '67 Cuna.. Suprem• PS. Pll, AC, bucut aeata. chrome wneeta. Crultln' machine for $450. caM P.M.FOUND: ladlel wr'al watch near Grace HaN. Coli 4713 at SMC. 23-4-1972 ---------­-----~ Loaf: SMC achool rtng In the-back· For tale: SR 60 Texaa lnatrument yard of Senior Bar aft., 1t1e gome programmable catculator, $500 or on Saturday. If round, p1eaae call beat OIIIK. Call 1·616-695-0n7. Eileen at 4902 (SMC). SOUVENIR MICHIGAN PROGRAMS. LOST~ ~IHii Car CoWl'. R.ward. $1 CAll TONY 1424  Portable caueHe player and AM­PersonalsFM radio; only 1 mon. old. contact: 234-0711 Attention ND & SMC Women: STEREO FOR SALE ·Pioneer receiver, There will be a brieforganizationaltape deck. turntable. Plus apeakera meeting for all students h>teresed and a-track. $340 or beat ofler. Call in starting a Women's 'SupportW43. • Group on campus. We will meet at 6:30 tonight In the lobby of Lewia Hall. Anyone with questions can contact Jane at #2194. It takes a long time to chew aTickets Marathon candy bar, even longer to walk to Carroll Hall and almost forever to finish studying for finals. But, it only takes a few seconds to FOR SALE: FOUR (4) GOOD contribute your fair share to the GA TICKETS TOGETHER FOR UNITED WAY STUDENT MIAMI GAME. BEST OFFER. CAMPAIGN. CALLJC AT 8~40 AFTER 10 PM MIAMI tickeu needed-2 GA's and ~ student tickets. Call 7963 or Woman needed to help elderly 8991. lad}' with 4-H group Thureday afternoons. Contact Volunteer HELP I NEED ~ GA'S for the Services, 7308. MIAMI game Oct.tl. PLEASE CALL COLLEEN 4-1·4~39. NEEU A RIDE TO WEST LAFAYE1TE-PURDUE THIS Need 5 tlx to Miami game. Call WEEKEND CALL JOHN, 3436 283-848~. NllED I ARMY GA for brother. Please call Lee-8680 NEED RIDE TO ST. LOUIS AREA for Sept. 26 weekend. Can leaveWanted: l Tickets to ALA/NO anytimeafterThundaynoon. WillGAME. Contact Joe or Dan 287· share driving and expensea. Call3311 l Julie 7674. BODEREKANDCHERYL TIEGS Need ride to north aide Chicago onDESPERATELY NEED STUDENT 9/26 or 9/27. Call Sue, 41-5115. OR GA TIX FOR MIAMI. C.ALL BRIAN·3327 OR MARTIE-7860.  BOYCOTT SENIOR FORMAL Denloe qoyle, Me tool Mike If you can do It you can teach it. Contact the Teacher Ed. F<lrum. Call Skip at SMC 5665. We,the EXPERT WHITE PANTS WATCHERS OF AMERICA,would like to extend our deepest appre­ciation to the bearer• of the white pants Friday.Fianner'a party room wlll never be the same. CHILDHOOD I & II have become the EXPERT WHITE PANTS WATCHERS OF AMERICA. National White Pantl Holiday coming aoonlll Di,HedaJlll,llij&Sue, Thanka for the INTENSE Birthday cake & Pizza. You're the BESn I'll share my ice cubeoanytlmel Love, Kath RESIDENT: Kenview Dr., Cln., Oh. I'm so proud of you. I knew you could do it. "You" 11JTORS NEEDED: I. High achool sophomore In German. 1. 4th and 5th grade boys In Math, general subjects. 3. 6th grade girl in Math, general subjects. 4. 6th gr. boy in metric ll}'ltem. 5. High school Junior In Geometry. 6. 6th gr. boy In Math, F.ngllah. Contact Volun­teer Servicel, HOB  


Wednesday, September 24, 1980-page 16
SRorts 



Irish host Lake Forest 
by Bill

l 
rish j
by David Wilson 
Sports Writer 
..­

tems Marquard
Following their most convin­cing victory of a young field hockey season, a 2-1 win over Franklin College last week, the HARRY 0-Add one more tribute to the lengthy list of
Irish prepare to meet Lake 
accolades Notre Dame's newest hero, placekicker Harry
Forest on Cartier Field this 
Oliver, has earned. The Associated Press has honored Oliver as Friday at 4:30 p.m. 
its Midwest Offensive Player of the Week for single-footedly
"Lake Forest will put up a good 
defeating the pesky Wolverines on Saturday.
game," predicts Notre Dame's 
That field goal equaled the second longest in Notre Dame
head coach, Jan Galen, "andwe'll 
history. Dave Reeve booted a 53-yard field goal against Pitt in
certainly be ready for them." 

1976 and.a 51-yarder vs. Michigan State in 1977.
Galen expresses satisfaction 
Irish linebacker Bob Crable was a finalist for AP defensive
with her team's performance 
honors by virtue ofhis 19 tackles against Bo's boys. Oliver joins 
thus far in 1980, especially the 
teammates Mark Zavagnin and Scott Zettek, who were the
fine performances turned in by 
defensive players ofthe week after the Purdue game, on the AP
co-captains Pat Crowley and 
honor roll.

Diane Tourney and freshman 
CARTER'S REAL ESTATE -Sophomore running back Phil
Clare Henry in the Franklin 
Carter has a chance to write his name indelibly into the Irishgame. 
record books next weekend. Should the 193-pound halfback 
"Last weekend's two losses 
gain over 100 yards against Michigan State, he would be only 
..:arne at the hands of Division I 
the fourth player in Irish annals to gain 100 or more yards in 
teams, so they were understand­
Carter way to 
three straight games. Carter ground out 142 yards against
able, not to mention valuable
secondstraight100-yard rushingga{lle. Can he make itthree in a row? See 
Purdue, and his four-yard touchdown jaunt in the fourth 
Irish Items at right. (photo by john Macor) (continued on page 15) 
quarter of Saturday's thriller pushed his total for that game to 103 yards. 
The last Notre Dame grid star to turn the rushing hat trick was Neil Worden in 195 3. Prior to that Marchy Schwartz {1930) and George Gipp (1920) accomplished the feat.
Easy schedule promotes Pitt's rank IT HURTS SO GOOD-Linebacker Bob Crable's bone­crushing tackles have also earned him a place in Irish football 
Editor's note: This column isfor all thepeople who have 

yore. The Cincinnati Moeller graduate set a team record with 
been wondering whether Frank LaGrotta could ever say 
187 tackles last season, an average of17 perSaturday. This year, 
Frank
anything bad about Pittsburgh. 

he is averaging 15.5 stops through two games.
First ofall, let me point out that the University In the 1 3 games Crable has started in his Notre Dame career,of Pittsburgh is not located in Pittsburgh. It lies in 
LaGrotta 

he has recorded at least 10 tackles 12 times. Likewise, he has led the grimy little suburb ofOakland, which might as 

the team in tackles in 11 of those 13 contests.
well be miles away from the heart of the city. 
ALABAMA SHOULD TRY IT-Notre Dame's 1980Sorry, butI had to getthatin. Butnowthatwe're ference titlists, lay waiting. 
football schedule ranks as the ninth toughest collegiate slate in clear on logistics, lets talk a minute about the Now I'm no Pitt fan. I think they were the most the country this year. The NCAA compilation, based.on thesubject of this column; the Pitt Panthers football overrated team in the nation that year and, I hat<· 1979 records of this season's opponents, reveals that Insh foes team. to say it, but the same thing is happening again compiled a 63-34-4 mark (.591) last year when not facing theFour years ago, a coach named Majors and a right in front of our eyes. 
Irish.

back named Dorsett (accent on the second Yesterday, the Associated Press released it Tops on the collegiate list are Penn State (.661), Duke (.625)
syllable, please) led the Panthers to an 11-0 record weekly college football rankings. Pitt was rated and Rice (.606), followed by Temple, TCU, Boston College,and a Sugar Bowl win over Georgia. For their sixth with 913 points including one first place vote Wisconsin, SMU, Notre Dame and Syracuse. 
efforts, Majors and Co. were awarded a national (most likely cast by Bob Smizik of The Pittsburgh HOW DO YOU RATE? -Two Irish offensive threats rate in championship and Dorsett was practically the bess). But what have they done to deserve this the top twenty of NCAA state rankings this week. R~nningunanimous choice for Heisman Trophy honors. lofty ranking? 
back Phil Carter is 16th in rushing at 122.5 yards-per-gameDorsett deserved the Heisman; his ly, they Well, they did defeat Boston College, 14-6. 
averaging (down from 11th at 142.0 last week), while Jim Stonewhipped the Irish 31-10. Buteven DanDevine will Then, after that tough game, they came right back checks in at 18th wih a 26.2 yards-per-kickoff-return mean (he tell you it was not exactly a year to remember for to handle Kansas, 18-3. And they've got no picnic was 6th at 35.0 last week). .
Notre Dame. Besides, a win over Notre Dame in weeks ahead with teams like Temple, West BO-HOO-Most Wolverine partisans thought that Boshould not alone be criteria for awarding a national Virginia, Louisville and Syracuse on the schedule. 
Schembechler's nightmares would end after Ohio State'schampionship. Georgia Tech also beat the Irish Meanwhile, Notre Dame remained mired in Woody Hayes retired.
that season-does that mean they should havt: eighth place this week; two notches below the Now Schembechler has another monkey on his back.
been co-champions with the Panthers? mighty Panthers. Of course, all the Irish did was Currently his 12th year at Michigan, Bo has lost only three non­Anyway, Pitt breezed through a schedule of beat Michigan and any smart coach-like Jackie league games in his tenure. All three d the Wolverines did notTemples and West Virginias and then ran into a Sherrill, for instance-will tell you that it's always lose another game outside the Big Ten until ten years later,depleted Penn State squad which they also easier to come back against Michigan than to hang when Notre Dame field-goaled theWolverines to death 12-10.
defeated handily. With every bowl committee on against Kansas. r Schembechler is probably kicking himself after losing anothernaturally clamoring for their presence on New Right? 
game to the Irish by a field goal on Saturday.
Year's Day, Pitt chose New Orleans where SEC OK, OK, I'll stop the sarcasm. But I think it But at least he may sleep better after this season.
winner, Georgia, clearly the weakest of all con­
(continued on page 14) 

BREAKA W A YBLITZ-Notre DameTicketManager Mike Busick reports that the Breakaway hockey promotion camaign is going well but "could be better." Busick says that it is. unrealistic to expect a sellout on the basis ofseason tickets, but he is hopeful that many games will sell out individually..
Theismann speaks out 
Students have the opportunity to purchase a 15-game ticket package for $30 which includes one ticket for each Irish homeWASHINGTON (AP)-Joe Raiders' player picked up That's part of the game of foot­name this winter. A seven-game Friday night package ($14) and Theismann believes the National Theismann and turned him over, bll. This stuff is not part of the ~ eight-game Saturday option ($16) are available as well.
Football League should take slamming him to the ground as game of football." 
Students may fill in ticket applications at the Ticket Office onstronger measures to protect its the referee whistled the play Theisrnann said a 15-yard the second floor of the ACC during regular business hours.
quarterbacks from being picked dead. The Raiders were assessed penalty is not a stiff enough Busick says ticket distribution is planned for right around fallup in the air and slammed to the a 15-yard penalty for unneces­deterrent break. ­ground. The Washington sary roughness. "Ifyou start taking money out The Breakaway campaign itself involved a combination ofRedskins' quarterback feels sus­"I think ifthey want to protect of guys' pockets (with a sus­radio, television, newspaper point-of-purchase and billboardpensions, and not 15-yard pen· the quarterback, something pension), then they'll start using advertisements promoting Notre Dame hockey, as well as aalties, are necessary. should be done about that their heads a little," he said. "It's direct-mail campaign to some 15,000 people. 
"It's my life I'm talking about," particular play," said Theismann. my life and the life ofevery other "We want to create an awareness of Notre Dame hockey,"said Theismann Tuesday, tw( "And they should do something quarterback. Anybody who has explained Busick. "We are offering the community of Southdays after he was slammed to tht before they start losing a lot of been in this position will agree Bend and Notre Dame the opportunity to see good action and ground by Oakland's second­quarterbacks." with me. • get plenty for their entertainment d?llar." . .
year defensive end, Willie Jones. He cited two examples in "There's got to be something. 
Campus promotions in the works mclude a Seruor N1ght at"You're in a vulnerable position, recent years where quarterback~ Who the hell cares about a 15­the game as well as nights for various residence halls. The firstcoming down on your head, neck were seriously injured on the yard penalty? Big deal, 15 yards. 
home game on the ice slate is October 28th against Bowling and shoulders. And you have to play-Pittsburgh's Terry All you do is push a guy down­Green.
figure you're going to hit .the Bradshaw by "TurkeyJoe"Jones field and it's a 15-yard penalty. 
I CAN'T HEAR YOU!!! -Practice Jor the Irish ice squadground with your own we1ght of Cleveland in 1976 and But when you start slamming opened this week on the ice under theACC' s north dome. Headbehind the impact." Minnesota's Tommy Kramer by people to the ground, there Coach Lefty Smith, usually hoarse from yelling before theTheisrnann, a seven-year vet­Jim Youngblood of Los Angeles should be something done. The season begins, now employes a microphone to direct practice. 
eran said his shoulder still wat in 1978. commissioner and the owners sore' from the hit by Jones. Tht "You've got to draw the line," should get togetherand make ita 
(continued on page 13)
said Theismann. "I take shots. more severe penalty." 




