/ 
, , , An Tostal-Page 5 

VOL. XIV, NO. 126 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, APRIL 24, 1980 
Aging Holy Cross ceiling falls near sleeping student 
by Mary Leavitt SMC News Editor 
A sizable piece of plaster came crashing down early yes­terday morning from the ceil­ing of a dormitory room in Holy Cross Hall on the Saint Mary's campus, raising ques­tions once again about the safety of one of the oldest buildings at the College. No one was injured in the incident. 
Karie Bf"audine, who lives in that room, said tha•: she heard a cracking noise the night before the accidr:-nt occured. "It just sounded like a poster falling off the wall so I ignored it," she said. "I went to bed and fell asleep. Then, about 
5:30 a.m. I heard this loud crash. I opened my eyes and there was this pile of plaster lying at the foot of my bed.'' 
According to Beaudine, the hole left in the ceiling after the plaster fell was approximately 6 feet long, three feet wide and om: inch thick. 
·'I can see beams and floor­boards now from the floor above where the plaster fell,'' Beaudine said. "The plaster fell in pieces so I'm sure I wouldn · t have been killed or anything tf it had fallen on top of me. I probably would have been hun, though.·· 
Beaudine said that mainten­ance originally believed that the accident was caused by watt"f leakage. 
''When they saw that che plaster had fallen off near the door rather than by the win­dows, they decided that the accident was not due to leak­age," Beaudine said. "They said they didn't understand what it was." 
Beaudine claimed that the cracks in the ceiling from which the plaster fell were no worse than the cracks any­where else in the room. ''There are worse cracks around the windows in this room than there were around the door,·· she said. "'There are cracks evervwhere in Hol}I/Cross. I guess I am just used to seeing them.'" 
''First maintenance offered to 
put i41 an entire new ceiling,'' 
she said. "But that would 
have meant that I would have 
had to move out of the room for 
what is left of the semester. 
Then ~hey said that thev could 
put in a oew ceiling atrer the 
close of the semester. I said I 
would prefer this if they could 
guarantee no more plaster 
would fall. They told me that I 
could just stay in the room and· 
they pulled some additional 
loose chunks of plaster from 
the ceiling.'' 
Susan Tamborini, director of 
Holy Cross Hall, did not seem 
to feel that-there was any 
immediate danger to Beaudine 
or any of the other residents of 
Holy Cross. 
"Maintenance didn't seem to be too alarmed over the incident, so we' II have to trust their judgement,'' Tamborini stated. ''The piece that fell wasn't that big. If maintenance felt that it was dangerous, they 
would have checked it out more 
closely.'' 
A statement from mainten­ance was made through the Public Relations Office at SMC. Both maintenance and~ security have been ordered not to make any direct statements to The Observer. 
''To the best of our know­ledge, this won't happen again," said Tracy McAuliffe, an assistant in the office. ''Maintenance checks the buildings periodically through­out the year so that this kind of accident won't occur." 
When Beaudine was in­formed that Maintenance checked the buildings every year as a preventive measure against the type of accident she had just experienced, she re­plied, ''If they say they check it and the ceiling f'!lls, something just doesn't make sense." 

"I mainly called The Ob­server because I think acci­dents like this could be a real hazard to students, especially for those students living in the older dormitories," Beaudine said. "I just wanted to help make everyone aware of what could happen.'' 


Tower war sends students to ho$pital 
by Mary Leavitt SMC News Editor Ann Monaghan Production Manager and Tim Sullivan Senior StaffReporter 
Two-Notre Dame students were injured last night in the semi-traditional tower wars which have occurred for the last few years on the Wed­nesdav before An Tostal fes­tivities begin. 
The injured persons, who were both freshmen living in Grace Hall, were treated and released from Saint ] oseph' s Hospital last night. Both re­quired stitches for lacerations in the head. 
According to ] oho Dunley, one of the injured students, ~he '_'war'' began in the early evemng. 

"Around 6:30p.m., we found out that Flanner had kidnapped our Grace Hall president, Paul Rafferty," Dunley said. "So,• until around 11:00 p.m., we had a basic tower war. Just a lot of yelling and stuff. Then, a whole mass of people from Grace gathered in front. of Flanner, but Flanner dido' t respond except with a few bot­tlerockets. We got bored so everyone started yelling that we should go get Dillon." 
The group of approximately 150 students, mainly from Grace, congregated at Dillon at approximately 12:30 p.m. At this point, the first of the evening's two casualties oc­curred. 
"I was one of the first do­dido' t see anything being zen people from the towers thrown by the group from the to reach Dillon,'' said a stu­towers--when he was hit from dent, who wished to remain behind by Dillon. anonymous. "When I got ''It "-:as just a lot of people there, I turned 4round to look yelling," the student said. back and got hit with a bot­"I saw no violence. I have de from Dillon. a very low opinion of Dillon 
The student stated that he for what they did to me. '' 
The student realized that he, was bleeding and began to walk to the front gate. 
"By the time I got there, the bleeding had stopped,'' he said. ''Security took me to the hospital where I received 
[continued on page 5] 

With students 

Areapolice discuss 0-Ccrime rate 
by john M. Higgins 
"Prevention is the key to dealing with the crime situation," Sergeant Joseph Wolvos of the South Bend Police Department said .last night at a meeting sponsored by the Off-Cam­pus Council designed to make next year's off-campus community aware of proper security procedures. A bout 50 students attended Off­Campus Night to listen to speakers from South Bend police, Notre Dame security, the Northc east Neighborhood Council and the South fiend City Council discuss measures that off-campus residents can take in order to protect them­selves and their property. 
All of the speakers emphasized the impor­tance o, i·roper locks on windows and doors and support from neighbors as the greatest deter­rent to crime. Wolvos demonstrated various door and window locks, stressing that "there is no substitute for a solid deadbolt lock for doors.'' He said that doorknob locks are ineffective because ''most doors have glass around them and a burglar just breaks the window, reaches through and he's in.'' 
Welvos also advised against using a spring­latch lock similar to those used in many dormitories on campus. ''They look reai1y solid, but it takes very little effott to force it open,'' Wolvos said. 

~olvos ::dded that a good relationship among 
neighbors Is a valuable weapo11" against crime. 
''You and your neighbors best know who 
bel~mgs in the neighborhood and who might be 
casmg_a house," Wolvos said. "A cop in a car 
patrolhng can only -do so much.'' 
'_'We want you ir. .·ur community,·· Arthur 
QUigley, member of the Northeast Neighbor­
hood Council and :1 faculty member at Notre 
Dame, told students . ''Bur we want you to be 
the kind of neighbors to us that we want to be 
to you.'' 

Quigley went on to talk about the Neighbor­
hood W arch program in which neighbors cooperate in watching each others' houses. "This system really works," Quigley said. "On my street, if a car drives up and parks in front · . of a house late at night, someone, -somewhere will write down the license number. If they don't hear any reports of a burglary, they just throw it out. But if something happens, we turn 
it over to the polico::. '' 
Students were obviously less than satisfied 
with the recommendations given. Several 
stude~lts questioned Wolvos and Director of 
Secunty Glenn Terry about both the effective­
ness of the South Bend police and efforts by the 
University concerning the crime situation. 
[continued otz page 6] 


Members ofthe ND ami Hawaii satling teams enjoyed the 
beautiful  weather  yesterday  afternoon  by  holding  an .  
informal regatta  on  St.  joseph's  Lake  [photo  by joel  
Annabel]  

Cbrby'smust close, says A.B.C.ooard 
bv Mary Fran Callahan Senior StaffReporter 
Board M~mbers of the Alcoholic Beverage Com~ission voted yesterday mormng not to renew Corby's Tavern permit to operate. 
Board Member Joseph • Szekendi explained the outcome of the board's meeting. "Let's say we made a recommendation not to approve a renewal of Corby's permit,'' he commented. 
Szekendi said the vote was unanimous. The board, however, consists only of three members, two from St.]ose{>h county, and one representmg the city. A state representative from Indiana's ABC Commission also attended the ­meeting, but did not vote on the permit renewal. Szekendi explained that ''there already was a quorum, so w~ didn't need him to vote.'' 
In South Bend, taverns must renew their permits annually. Corby's permit expired, but 
[continued on page 2] 



~~~-----'~ 
News in brief 
Thursday, April24, 1980 -page 2 
IOC 's LordKillanin makes 

last-ditchofferto US, USSR 
LAUSANNE. Switzerlan.d (AP)--~ord Killanin, president qf the Internauonal <?ly~ptc Commmee, offered last I.~ght to me~t personally with JImmy Carter and Leonid Brezhnev in a ~Id t? save Moscow's crumbling Summer Olympic Games. ~Illamn satd he recieved a long letter from Brezhnev some time ago, and T~esda>: ni~ht Carter sent him a Telex message expr.essu.lg .fai~h m the value of the Olympic mo':ement. Killanm mdicated no sanctions will be taken ag~u.lst the USOC on the grounds that they had bowed to polmcal pressure from the White House. 
Casualtyfiguresfrom ocean collision continue to climb 
MANILA, Philippines (A~).-<?wne~s of a ferry-freighter that was rammed by a Phdhppme 01l tanker and sank in a shark-infested strait with about 1,000 persons said yesterday they have recovered 74 more bodies. The Manila Rt:scue Coordination Center and the Philippine Coast Guard said. they were unable to contirm the report by the Ner,ros Naviganon Co., owners of rhe sunken inter-island vessel Don) uan: rhar a sisrer ship had recovered the 74 additional ~odies bnngmg to 96 the total dead. The rescue officials h~ted 15 known dead and said a final tally could be much higher. 
&Jurces expect Anderson to become an independent today 
W ASHIN9TON (AP)-R«?publican candidate John B. An­ders?n will ann~unce this morning that he will run for president as an Independent, knowledgeable sources said yesterday.. A~ter more than a week's contemplation, the veteran Illm01s congressman has decided to abandon his quest for. the Republica~! presidential nomination, the source~ said. Instead, he will seek to tap what his campai~n strategtsts see as voter dissatisfaction with the two maJor party front-runners, President Jimmy Carter and Ronald 
FromNlll 


Weinstei.Q receives grant 
to know more exactly what ts going on chemically and physio­logically between the parasite and its host," Weinstein explained. "This is also of great value in testing drugs, and may ultimately lead to a vaccine for the parasites.'' 
Weinstein works with round­worms and tapeworms, exploring "th•: parasite's extra­ordinary ability to take up enormous quantities of vitamin Bl2, a vitamin necessary for synthesizing red blood cells and for maintaining the physiolog­ical integrity of the central nervous system in humans." 
In addition, he is attempting to understand the function of ster­ols like chloresterol in the worms and to grow filarial worms in culture. The World Health Organization has listed these worms as the third leading cause of infectious disease, and Weinstein is work­ing to develop a vaccine. 
NIH has funded this research for 10 years and this latest award is support of the first year of a five-year grant renewal. 

Dr. Paul P. Weinstein, pro­fessor of biolo~y at Notre Dame, has recetved $119,865 from the National Institue of Health (NIH) to continue his research in the cultivation of a group of parasitic worms, call helminths, in test tubes. 
About one-fourth the world's population is infected with the parasitic helminths which can cause blindness, tissue damage, blood loss and ele­
[continued from page 1] 
the bar owner then applied for and received an extension. If the ABC Commission accepts 
the board's "recommen­dation, " Corby's will close when its extension expires. Szekendi did not know the exa~t d:'lte of Corby's extension exptratton, but he said it was a "matter of weeks." 
Corby's owners, however, phantitis in their hosts. Because the helminths follow intricate migratory patterns throughout the host's body and develop outside the host before residing in a particular organ, it is difficult to duplicate the life cycle under laboratory condi­tions, Weinstein said. 
"If we can grow these parasi­tic organisms in test tubes, it will enable us to understand their developmental needs and 
... Cbrby's 
yesterday. 

Szekendi added, however that local decisions are usually sychronized with state ones. ''Usually the state accepts the decision of the local board since the local board knows the situation," he commented. 
He said residential complaints, violations of Indiana·' s drinking age, and "overall . nuisance" prompted the unammous vot:e. 
have the option of appealing the board's vote to the state ABC. On the state level then, 

KNOW a board consisting of members of the ABC would vote whether or not to accept the bar's appeal. The decision would be:; 


BILL 
final. 

Whether or not Corby's management will appeal the ABC's recommendauon is still 
MYLER unknown. Corby's owner could not be reached for comment 
KEENAN2-EAST BEAST 
Reagan. 

Weather 

Variable cloudiness and c~ld t~rough Friday. High today be.twee~ 45 and 50. Low tomght 10 the low to mid 30s. High Fnday 10 the low ~Os. 



CantP-_us___-------4 
10 am-noon & 2-4 pm THEATRE WORKSHOPS the milwaukee re~ertory theatre workshops conducted by peggy cowles & dame! stein O'LAUGHLIN STAGE free 
4 pm DEE LECTURE SERIES in social and political thoughts "social science accounts & political responsibilty," prof. john o'neill, york u. toronto 122 HAYES HEALY spon. by govt. & sociology & anthropology 
4:30 pm AWARD CEREMONY annual rotc award ceremony maj gen michael healy MEM LIB AUD spon. by army rotc 
4:30pm LECTURE "environmental and industrial conflict," GALVIN LIFE SCIENCE ROOM 101 
6 pm-12 am AN TOSTAL CARNIVAL rides, fun, and excttement WHITE FIELD nd faculty/staff/family discount 
6-8 pm BOSTON CLUB BUS SIGN-UP reservations for the bus home-limited space LAFORTUNE LOBBY 
7 & 9 pm FILM "distant thunder" MEM LIB AUD 
7:30 
pm JAPANESES FILM SERIES "the ceremony" WASHINGTON HALL spon. by sp/dr mod. & classical languages. 

7:30 
pm DANCE WORKSHOP mary vanmele, dance instructor at ywca spon by nd women's organization in the LAFORTUNE BALLROOM free 



8 pm LECTURE "gladstone as bismarck" prof. paul schroeber GALVIN LIFE SCIENCE AUD 
8 pm MASTER LECTURE SERIES IN PSYCHOLOGY "a personal view of four decades of social psychology, 2,'' leon festinger HAGGAR AUD 



~The.Dbs.ery_er_ 
Night Editor: Steve Swonk Asst. Night Editor: Deirdre Murphy, Eddie "Baltimore bound'' Holden 
Copy Editor: Kathy Casey Layout Staff Mary Silvi, Colleen Sloan (Thanks for everythin') News Editor: Pam Degnan, 
S.M.C. Features Layout:Sal Granata Sports Layout: Michael Ort· man Typists: Mark Perry, Beth Huffman, Michelle Kelleher Nancy Russell, Scoop Sulli­van, Michael Ortman EMT: Scoop, Mark Perry, Orts Proofreader: Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor: Janet Ri-· gaux SMC Day Editor: Cece Ba­liles Ad Design: Anne Fink Photographers: Joel Ann­able, Mary "f-stop" Leavitt 
Guest Appearances: Ann ''CliffordTrust'' Monaghan Ryan "No groveling Patsy and Tom · I want war!" Ver Berkmoes, Panama "Blame me" Red, Mary ''I'm dying" Leavitt 
The Obaerver (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obaerver Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Obaerver, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 
46556. 

The Obaemr Is a member of the ~ssoclated Press. All reproductionnghts are reserved. 
TIPPECANOE PLACE RESTAURANT IS NOW HIRING RESTAU RANT PERSONNEL 
full or part time:day and night shifts high wages: excellent benefits training:classroom and on the job cordial atmosphere 
FOOD WAITERS AND WAITRESSES BUSBOYS/BUSGIRLS COCKTAIL WAITRESSES DISHWASHERS BROILERCOOKS HOSTESSES BARTENDER~ PREP COOKS MAINTENANCE MEN 
APPLY IN PERSON BETWEEN II :00 am S 6:00 pm MONDAYTHRU S.A.TURDAY 

TIPPECA~~E PLACE EOE-M/F 
620 W. Washin~ton Ave South Bend, Ind. 


The Observer Thursday, April 24, 1980 -page 3 
USOC explains boycott vote 
LAUSANNE, Switzerland (AP)-Leaders of the U.S. Olympic Committee were called before the top Olympic hier­archy yesterday and explained their decision not to enter the Games in Moscow. 
"There was no criticism, and no mention of sanctions against us," said Robert Kane, Presi­dent of the USOC, after leaving a meeting with the executive board of the International O­lympic Committee. 
The executive board, under IOC President Lord Killanin, talked to the Americans for an hour and then discussed the boycott problem in private. There was immediate an­nouncement of any IOC action. 
Kane said he and C::vl. F. Don Miller, USOC general secre­tary, explained the whole pro­cess ofthe decision to stay away from Moscow. It followed a call by President]immy Carter for a boycott of the Moscow games because of the Soviet interven­tion in Afghanistan. 
Asked by newsmen if they were questioned about govern­ment pressure, Kane replied: "They didn't need to ask us. Nothing has been more visible than the pressure we had been under, and the resistance we have shown. When it became a matter of national security there was no other way we could go." 
Under the Olympic rules, national Olympic committees that yield to political pressures 
Athletes take USOCdecision tofederal appellate co~rts 
WASHINGTON (AP) ­Eighteen amateur athletes ask­ed a federal court yesterday to overturn, the U.S. Olympic Committee· s decision against sending an ·Olympic team to Moscow this summer. 
The athletes, all Olympic hopefuls. said the USOC violat· ed their constitutional rights, an amate~r sports law and its own constitutiOn 
The lawsuit, joined by a member of the USOC executive board and the Olympic team's rowing coach, asked a U.S. district judge to void the April 12 decision and prevent USOC officials from carrying it out. 
The suit, which seeks to become a class action on behalf of all Olympic hopefuls, said the USOC '·yielded its autono­my and has succumbed to political and economical pres­sure.'' 
President Carter asked the 
USOC not to send a team to the 
Moscow Games because of the 
Soviest occupation of Afghanis­
tan. The suit said that Carter 
and members of his administra­
'Under Milk Wood 'opens­tomorrow 
Dvlan Thomas' "Under Milk W~od," the final play of the 1979-80 Notre Dame/Saint Mary's theatre season, will be presented tomorrow and Satur­day and May 1-3 at Century Center in downtown South l3end. 
"Under Milk Wood" will be performed in the Bendix Theatre at the Century Center and will be the first attempt by the ND/ SMC theatre to reach the Michiana area outside the campuses. 
The bus w1ll leave LeMans for Century Center at 8 p.m. and again at 10 p.m., to rerum students to Lel\fans at 10:30 
p.m. 
The shuttle will follow its regular schedule between 8 and 9:30 p.m. and after 10:30 

p.m. 
/ "Under Milk Wood"' presents a day in the life of a small Welsh town, and gives an 


account of the single and some­times magical moments of dreams. 
Reservations can be made by calling the Century Center box office at 284-9111. 
tion ''have ~ngaged in a cam­paign to coerce (the Olympic committee) into compliance with the president's demand for a boycott of the Olympic games.'' 
According to the lawsuit, the Amateur Sports Act of 1978 guarantees that athletes have the right to participate in international competitions. 
are liable to be disciplined. In the case of the United States such disciplinary action could include moving the 1984 Games from Los Angeles. 
Miller said the USOC was 
going ahead with the selection 
of an Olympic team but there 
was virtually no possibility that 
American athletes would com­
pete in Moscow. 
He added: "If there is a 
change in the international 
situation, anything would be 
possible. But we are not naive 
enought to believe there is 
going to be any change in the 
International situation.'' 
Kane said: "I have never 
thought the Olympic movement 
would be destroyed as a result 
of this. No nation has to take 
part in the Games." 
He said there was only a brief 
reference to the 1984 Games. 
He said Vitaly Smirnov, Rus-. 
sian Vice President of the IOC, 'told him the Russians had never said they would not go to Los 
Angeles. 
The executive board was expected to sit all day. It was talking about the USOC, the proposed abolition of national flags and anthems at the Mos­cow Games, and. anmher possi­bility, apparently fading fast, that athletes would be allowed to enter as individuals if their national Olympic committees decide to boycott. 

Sgt. Wolvosof the SBPD spoke to off-campus students last night on crime prevention. [photo "by joel Annable] 
In Pennsylvania 


Victories keep Kennedy, Bush alive 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) Sen. Edward M. Kennedy outlasted President Carter to win the Pennsylvania presidential pri­mary by the frailest of margins yesterday, and said he' II have to do better to catch up in he race for the Democratic nomin­ation. 
The long, slow count of ballots in the Tuesday election was so close that Kennedy and Carter just about split the state's Democratic nominating votes. Only a handful of popular votes, out of more than 
1.4 million cast, separated the winner and the loser. 
Kennedy gained 94 dele­gates to the Democratic National Conyention. Carter got 91, and thllt kept intact the President's faraway lead in delegate strength. 
Former U.N. Ambassador Geo~ge 'Bush upset Ronald Reagan in the Republican primary. He gained '3 percent of the vote to Reagan's 46 percent. · 
The GOP popular vote did not bind delegates, who were elected separately and were officially uncommitted, but Bush contended the victory was evidence that his emphasis on his differences with the conservative Reagan is starting to tell. He said the Pennsylvania results would boost his underdog cause in Texas, his adopted home state. He and Reagan meet there in a May 3 pnmary, with 80 delegates at stake. 
Reagan and Bush met last night in a televised campaign debate in Houston. Rep. ] ohn 
B. Anderson withdrew from the debate, as knowledgeable sources said he prepared to declare himself an independent presidential candidate. 
'fhe drama of Pennsylvania 

1637 Lincoln Way West South B@nd, lndiarta 46628 
232-6622 


S]OO OFF 

---o~~ any style 
men or women 
---ND/SMC ID required 
-

CALL TODAY 
was in the Democratic primary. In · midafternoon Wednesday, with 99 percent of 
the  precincts  counted,  the  
numbers read this way:  
Kennedy  R5,004  or  46  

percent, for 94 delegates. 
Carter 718,757 or 46 percent for 94 delegates. 
Six percent of the vote was uncommitted, 2 per<:ent went to Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr., who had already quit the race. 

.~ 
The official canvass of the primary vote won't even begin for at least eight days. So the final, official figures may not be tabulated for two weeks or more. 
The Carter camp could ask for a recount, but it would be expensive, $50 for each of the 9571 election districts, and probably would not alter the delegate apportionment anyhow. 
SUNSHINE AND CELEBRATION PRESENT 
and Special Guest : 
• Off Broadway 
Tuesday April29 7:30pm 

Notre Dame A.C.C. 

ckets: $.8.50 and $7.50 on sale now t the ACC Box Office and all usual . ACC ·TicketOutlets 
r-J ·•: ,"'1:1.
" l ' 'l "' -~ ....

I J • • • •f i ••~ •• -~ J>·r ,j,.~,.r'•' • _.; 
---------------------------------~----------­
The Observer Thursday, April24, 1980 -page 4 

This hole was left in in the ceiling of a Hof;y yesterday morning after a large piece ofplasterjel1. [photo by Mary Leavitt]  Cross dormitory lapproximately ten feet.  room  at SMC early Story on page  
Discusses women 's role  

Roberts speaks on Army 
By Tom Koegel Senior Staff Reporter 

Col. Grace L Robert::., the first woman commandant of a United States Army school, was the keynote speaker in a panel discussion sponsored by ~otre Dame ROTC on "Women m the Army," held yesterday afte~­noon in the Hayes-dealy Audi­tonum. 
Roberts, the comma':ldant of the lJ. S. Army Institute of Information, said that "it would be a ·ragedy if we put women in combat, because men would be so busy playing the role of protecting the women .that they would end up getung shot themselves." Roberts also pointed out that it is not known how women would react to the tre~endous stress of battle conditions. 
The discussion often touched on the regulations prohibiting women from occupying combat­related p\lSitions. Roberts not­ed that although women are prohibited trom holding such positions, they might be placed m such positions in an all out war, and are therefore being trained in combat tactics. 
"We have never had a war in which women have not been killed on the battleground,'' she stated. "Maybe it is considered all right for nurses to die in combat because nurs­ing is traditionally considered women's work.'' 
Robert said it {Vas important' that 96 percent of the Army's positions are open to women despite the fact that the other combat-related 4 percent are nor. She pointed out that the women in this year's graduat­ing class at West Point have chosen many positions that are not traditional for women. The single largest group of women chose positions in the air de­fense artillery. 
Roberts stated that the army ''has been an historic leader in equal opportunity," and noted that women in the army are 
~--oovou-NnTJA~mt, o--,
I O'HARE? I
Iwe go from south bend/mishawaka I I 3times daily!! IIAll FORONlY I 
1$l200oneway $39 OOroundtripl 
I I 
I UNITED LIMO INC 255-3068 I 
competing well with men for jobs, promotions and schooling. She did admit, however, that re-enlistment among women is down, and the discharge rate of women before they have ob­tained their skills is' on the rise. . Roberts was joined on the panel by three officers who have been members of the service for less than ten years: Capts. Catherine Wallace, Chip 
Ecks and Lynn Fleury. 
The three younger officers added their comments on the problems of married couples in the Army. They noted that while the strain of transfers can be difficult, the army's policy of attempting to keep couples to~ether has improved the situ­ation. 
Justice Dept. files charges of housing discrimination 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Justice Department charged the owner and four employees of rwo apartment complexes in South Bend and Mishawaka, 
Ind.,  with  discriminating  a­ 
gainst  blacks  and  women  in  
rentals.  '  

Attorney General Benjamin Civiletti said a civil housing discrimination suit was filed Wednesday in U.S. District Court in South Bend against 
Hesburgh appoints Beckman 

Fr. Theodore Hesburgh has recently appointed Marion Beckman of Granger to the Advisory Council for the Snite Museum of Art at Notre Dame. A native of Baltimore, Beckman received her bache­lor's degree in education from the College of Notre Dame of Maryland and hr:r M.A. in art from Notre Dame. She caught on the east coast for 15} years and served as coordinator of instructional television for the Archdiocese of Baltimore before starting the Departmenr of An at Holy Cross Junior College in South Bend in 1970. Beckman spent two years as executive secretary to the Faculty Foundations Commit­tee and as Notr~ Dame Founda­tion relations coordinator before recently assuming the newly created position of execu­tive director of the Friends of The Snite Museum of Art. She is a former member of the Channel .34 Board of Directors. 
events as the Ice Capades and
'--------------------------~ 
~BUS SCHEDULE FOR 





"UNDER MILKWOOD" 
(APRIL 25,26 MAY 1,2,3) 
: 25pni. ST ~ARY'S ( LEMANS HALL·)---A ·CENTURY CENTER .. ·· · ··' 
. ·. · lBENDIXUIEATRE·) 
lO.:OOpm CENTURY CENTER....._·.\,...._.__.._---­
{ BENDIX THEATREl · 
STMA 
( LEMANS HALL). 
football and hockey games. 
"We try to get the kids away 
from the Center and have them 
do things they wouldn't 
normally do,'' Bankowski said. 
Weber was cited, in part, for his work at the Northern Indiana State Hospital, which houses severely and ,profoundly mentally retarded children who require 24 hour care, ~·He has been·<t great inspiration for the voh.tn~eersthtough his iove for the, children and his great rel~·tiopsh,jp with ..them," Loughery said. 
Weber: , bu.illis whtr:tchairs. and other\ .is'1;tch · devices · according Ito each .thi:ld's measurements aqd specific needs. 
Efforts recognized 
Council dinner honors two 
the children and their parents. 
by Earl Rix 
Bankowski, who with Ed
Walter Bankowski and Bro. 
Loughery, is co-ordinator of the
Richard Weber were both 
Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's
recognized for their efforts 
Council for the Retarded, was
with retarded ·children Tuesday 
recognized primarily for his
night at the 30th Annual 
work at Logan Center where he
Dinner of the St. Joseph 
and Loughery run a program
County Council for the 
that has included 300 ND/SMC 
Retarded. 

student volunteers so far this
Cited for ''outstanding 
year.

volunteer service,'' Bankowski 
In addition to the Saturday
and Weber received awards 
recreation program at Logan
from both the St. ) oseph 
which usually draws 100 to 120
CountJ · Council for the 
volunteers from ND/SMC each
Retar ed and the Indiana 
week, the Council sponsors
Association of Retarded 
special events such as
Citizens. Both men were 
Christmas parties, picnics,
warmly congratulated by the 
sledding, and trips to Sl!Ch
crowd which included some of Holladay Corp., owner of the 
565-unit West Jefferson Apart­
ments in nearby Mishawaka. 

Also, named as defendants were John T. Phair, managing partner of the corporation; San­dra Sobieralski, Portage Place project manager; Beverly J o­seph, West Jefferson resident manager, and Helene Clayton, former Portage Place resident manager. .• 
The suit charged the corpora­tion with violating the Fair Housing Act of 1968 by dis­criminating against blacks and women in South Bend and against women in Mishawaka. 
The government said rental agents were instructed to code rent applications from blacks so that they could be rejecteci, to discourage blacks from aj•ply­
ing  and  to  misrepresent  that  
· there were no vacancies.  
The  government  also  said  

divorced or separated women were required to /ay extra security deposits an rents. 
The defendants were not immmediately available for comment. · 
The suit asked for a court order enjoining the corporation and its employees from discrim­inating on the basis of race or sex and from refusing to correct the effects of the alleged dis­
crimination. 

The case was investi~?;ated by the FBI and the civil rights division in cooperation with 
U.S. Attorney David T. Ready. 
Fr. 0 'Brien 
dies after 
longillness 

Fr. John A. O'Brien, one of America's most influenrial priest-writers, died Friday in St. Joseph's Hospital following a long illness. He was 87 years old and had taught and been an author-in-residence at Notre Dame since 1940. 
A lifelong progressive in Church Matters, O'Brien supported vigorously the changes brought about by the Second Vatican Council and was very active in the ecumen­ical movement, particularly in spearheading the rapproch­ment of the Masons and the Knights ofColumbus'on a local and national level. In 1973, he became the first cleric to receive the Laetare Medal, the most significant award -given to American Catholics. 
According to Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, O'Brien was a tradi­tion at Notre Dame since he arrived four decades ago to teach what was then called "apologetics" in the theology department. Apologetics was a subject that gave all of the rational evidence for faith in Christ and, in the Church, and was the central theme of many of O'Brien's books. 
"Perhaps no priest in ,the history of the Church in Ameri­·ca was responsible for more Catholic ·converts,'' Hesburgh said. "As a fJriest, he was a simple and humble man, holy, 
, bard-working, poor in lifestyle whiie w~~thy in book royalties, · all· of which he gave away. He was also a matchmaker of some r~nown." ·Hesburgh sai~ that' ·bli:Gusands· of.students remem­ber:O'Bd(m .as one who cared. abOut them ,in a ~ost personal and dedicatea way. 



The Observer Thursday, April24, 1980 -page 5 
Pottowatamie Indians benefit from ND charity 
by Mary Fran Callahan Senior StaffReporter 
Upholding a traditional good will gesture of Fr. Sorin's, the University annually provides baskets of food to the original owners of the land the campus is located on-the Pottowata­mie Indians. 
Jim Sullivan of the South Bend Historical Society yester­day explained that the Potto­watamie Indians "ceded" their land to the federal government through the Chicago Treaty of 1821. Missionaries, who later would found Notre Dame, then purchased the tract of land from the government. Every Christmas, the University still provides food baskets for any Pottowatamies willing to jour­ney to campus. 
Theresa Ferro, of the ND Purchasing Department, which coordinates the project, said she has the responsibility of annually registering the In­dians' names on cards. 
''They must have a county social service roll number in order to be elisible," she explained. Accordtng to Ferro, 159 baskets of food were doled out in 1978. The Indians pick up their cards at the Admini­stration building and then take them over to the dining hall to receive their food. 
Though Ferro did not know how may baskets were distri­buted this past Christmas, she commented, "I'm sure there were more than last year.'' 
Bruce Landon, attorney for Indian Land Claims ·in the Federal· Bureau of Indian Af­fairs, yesterday explained that Notre Dame would have no legal obligation to the lndians since the missionaries pur­chased the land from the government. Even if the government had promised the Indians annual baskets of food, the obligation would perish once the government sold the land. 
Landon did say that in­stances of continued payments which were agreed upon in ancient treaties, though scarce, still exist. "Some payments unde1= treaties are still being made, but most have been settled or negotiated through lump-sum payments to the India'ns in court settlements,''· he commented. 
Sullivan explained that his­torical records indicate that Sorin was ''very much involved with the Indians." · In a missionary spirit, he then ini-
Young Demos· 
elect new 
officers 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Young Democrats elected their officers for the 1980-81 school 
.year last night. The new officers are President Jim Mur­phy, Vice-President Tom Grus­cinski, and Secretary-Treasurer Paul Klingaman. Joe Slovinec announced that the offices of President Carter and Vice-Pres­ident Mondale have expressed regrets that they will not be able to visit the Notre Dame campus this semester but hope to .come at another time. Future Young Democrats meet­ings and organizational plans will be announced. 

tiated the tradition of giving food to the area Indians. 
Pete Lombardo of the Uni­versity Archives verified Mon­day that the University foun­ders would grow their own food. ''Whenever there was a surplus, Fr. Sorin would open the place up to the Indians as well as the townspeople. It was never looked on as a university obligation; it's just what a missionary would do,'' he said. 
When asked if the food basket tradition would con­tinue, ) ay Kayne of Informa­tion Services responded, "As long as we're a Christian 
institution we'll continue to do Air Force ROTC cadets salute their commander durins an Annual Spn·ng Parade and it." Change ofCommand ceremony. [photo by joel Annabetj 
============================= 
• • .Towerwar 
[continued from page lJ 
a couple of stitches." Meanwhile, the "war"· con­tinued back at Dillon. 
''The tower group was mainly throwing bottlerockets and fire­
. crackers at Dillon," Dunley said. "Dillon was throwrng cans and bottles at us. We finally go't bored with that too, so we left and regrouped at the North Dining Hall. Then we heard that Dillon was 
Bergen to 
actasNAEA 
representattve 
Dr. Thomas Beq~in, dean of 
Continuing Education at Notre 
Dame and a member of the 
National Council on the Arts, is 
representing the National En­
dowment for the Arts at the 
National Arts Education Asso­
ciation annual meeting in At­
lanta. 

Bergin along with represen­
tatives of the U.S. Office of 
Education, has been a member 
of a panel discussing ''Federal 
Programs in Arts Education.'' 
The NAEA annual meeting is 
the largest gathering of arts 
educators in the world. 
· 

foJlowing us. We ran back 
to Grace and a large group 
of us remained outside in front 
of the dorm. When Dillon 
got there, they went ~into the 
construction area in front of 
the towers. Everyone was 
yelling and throwing stuff.'' 
At this time, Dunley was hit. 
·"J got hit with something. : 
I don't know what it was-· 
a rock, a bottle, a can-1 
don't know. Whatever it was, 
it cut me deep. When I got hit, 
I went down. After that,· 
everything started breaking 
up. Dillon started to clear 
out, and Security came and 
was helping to clear things 
out.'' 
Security took Dunley to the hospital where he received . 15 stitches for a deep· cut in 
the temple. 
According to Pat Conklin, 
Dillon HaJJ President, he re­
ceived a phone call from Grace 
prior to the attack on Dillon.. 
''About three minutes before 
the tower group showed up, 
I got a phone call that the 
towers were coming to get us 
wiJh rocks and eggs," Conklin 
stated. "I went downstairs 
to warn the rector, but by 
the time I got down there, 
they were already here. Rocks 
and eggs were thrown, and se­
veral windows were broken. 
About 150 Dillonites· congre­
gated on the first floor of 
Dillon and chased the group 
from the towers through the 
North Quad back to Grace." 
[continued on page BJ 
FIGHT BACKII! 
Beat the "Michiana Heat Wave" with some cool deals at Lock's Liquor WorldI 
8:00P.M. 
SATURDAY, APRIL 26 
NOTRE DAME ACC 
Tickets on sale now 
All seats reserved: $12.50, $10.00, $8.50. Tickets available at K;C Box Office 9 A.M.-5 P.M.; Robertson's, S. Bend & Concord Malls; First Bank; St. Joe Bank; Elkhart lruth; All River City Record Stores, S. Bend & Michigan City; Suspended Chord, Elkhart; Record Company, Plymouth; Recordland, Benton Harbor; Butterfly Record, WaftaYI. 
CENTER STACE IN THE ROUND 

P---------------------------------------------~---------------------------------~-­
The Observer 
Intensive care units 

Simple tests reduce stay, bill 
BOSTON (AP) . Nearly half the people held in intensive care for possible heart attacks can safely be released a day earlier than usual, a move that could cut their hospital bills by . an average 26 percent, a study shows. 
Hospitals spend as much as 20 percent of their budgets on intensive care, and cuttmg the service could mean substantial savings for them as well. 
People with chest pains are routinely put in intensive care until doctors figure out whe­ther they really have had heart attacks. These people make up 39 percent of all admissions to intensive care units, the most expensive ward in a hospital. 
SMCclass ofl980to holdfair 
The 1980 graduating class of the Saint Mary's education department will sponsor a cur­riculum fair tomorrow from 1 
p.m. to 5 p.m. and Saturday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in room 327 of Madaleva Hall. 
The curriculum fair will fea­ture the work of students who have formulated their own mat­erials, aides, plans and learning centers. Students will show their ideas to and answer questions from teachers of the Michiana area. 
Reseachers at Massachusetts 
General Hospital have found a 
few simple tests can quickly 
weed out health people so they 
can be discharged from inten­
sive care within a day. 
Currently, these low-risk pa­
tients stay in intensive care an 
average of two days. 
· If hospitals followed their guidelines, the doctors esti­mate it would reduce the number of intensive care beds reserved for heart patients by 9 percent. 
Two studies on the use of intensive care units, directed by physicians Albert G. Mulley and George E. Tibault, were published in Thursday's issue of the New England journal of Medicine. 
The cost of staying in intensive care is often two or three times that of a private room. At Massachusetts General, inten­sive care. costs an average of $2,000 for patients admitted for chest pains who are later given clean bills of health. 
Intensive care units came into vogue in the early 1960s. They provide sophisticated monitor­tog and life-saving equipment and are staffed by specially trained nurses. At first, they were reserved for victims of serious heart disease, but later they were expanded to provide care for other critically ill people. 
In an accompanying edito­rial, journal edttor Arnold S. Reiman wrote, "We are by now investing such vast re­sources in intensive care ... We are in urgent need of data to tell us who needs to be in the ICU and for how long." 

The, Boston doctors reviewed ~.639 patients ad~itted to an mtenstve care untt over two years. 
They found 47 percent of the people in intensive care for chest pains had normal blood tests and electrocardiograms and were free of majOr compli­cations within a day of ad­mission. Since only 6 percent of this group had serious problems after the first day, the researchers concluded they could be moved to ordinary hospital rooms until doctors were sure they were well enough to go home. 
Kennedy 
• 

.camprugners to convene 
There will be a meeting of all people interested in partici­pating in the Kennedy for President campaign on campus and in South Bend tonight at 8 
p.m. in the Flanner Hall Com­moner. Representatives from the Third Congressional Dis­trict office and the National Headquarters will be on hand to discuss the campaign. 
Thursday, April24, 1980 -page 6 

IN CASE YOU'VE MISSED US... WE'VE MISSED vou·! 
Over the past decade, Michael & Co. has been pleased to serve all of our valued Notre Dame and St. Mary's customers. Recently, we moved from our old Edison Rd. at Ind. 23 location which was just% mile away. Now we're only 2% miles away! Still on Edison Rd. Still convenient. Still the one. We welcome you to visit us soon at our all new salon. 
Featuring hair and skincare products by: 

[continued from page lJ 
·"When people move off-cam­pus, the police seem to be the agents that people demand the most of," Terry said. "When I went through the civil unrest in the mid-60s, when people got so upset to the point of rioting, police service was not what they were complaining about. It was rats, garbage pick-up, street lighting and busing. I think we need to put these things in perspective." 
-"We try to stay on top of things," Assistant Director of Security Rex Rakow said. "We monitor the police radio and we send cars through the neigh· borhood during trips to and from the hospital. It's about all we c~n do." 
I disagree with the statistics,'' Quigley said. "I don't think they're that high." · 
Quigley said that with a little cooperation neighbors would all take care of each other. 
Quigley told any off-campus student who wants to do more in the neighborhood or ~ho has any trouble to come to the Northeast Neighborhood Cen­ter on the corner of Notre Dame and South Bend Av­enues. ''The center is there to serve the neighborhood," .he said. "We do things like help the poverty-level people do their taxes and things like diat. 
We just want to build a strong community.'' 
Off-Campus Commissioner Mark Kelley said he thought that the meeting was a success. "It's important that everyone's house is secure," he said. ''Without locks and neighborhood awareness, all the police help in the world isn't going to help." 
South Bend City Councilman Lou McGann put the final touch on the meeting with his comment, ''welcome to South Bend." 

Students celebrate Earth Dayby improving c~pus 
by john M. Higgins 

In commemoration of Earth Day, a group of Notre Dame students did their part in cleaning up the environment by picking up trash around campus. The clean-up effort was sponsored by the Notre Dame Geology Club both "as public service and in order to promote environmental awareness and respect for the Earth," according to club member Bill Ehmann. 
The club, made up of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents with an interest 10 earth and environmental ·sciences, decided that "this would be an appropriate effort on Earth Day," Ehmann said. "Last year, Sorin Hall organized a similar effort and we felt that this was something that we could do to clean up the environment.'' 
"We had about 29 people picking up trash on a Saturday morning,'' said Paul Chervanak, organizer of Sorin's effort last year. "That works out to about 70 man· hours that we saved the Uni­
versity.'' 
This Saturday, Sorin will again sponsor their annual Lake Clean-Up. Residents will meet on the Sorin porch at 9 
a.m. when they will go down to the lakes to pick up the bottles, cans, and paper scattered on the shore. 
"We feel that this is a contribution that we can make to the entire Notre Dame community," Jim Rigali, coor­dinator of this year's effort," said. Instead of doing some­thing just for the hall, we want to do something that everyone can enjoy." 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chrej............ Paul Mullaney SMC Nt>ws Editor ........... Mary Leavitt Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 · Managing Editor .............. Mark Rust Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Features Editor .............. Kate Farrell 
Editonals Editor ........... Mike Onufrak 
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collese. It does not ';lecessanly Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe
Senior Copy Editor ......... Lynne Daley 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institutton. The news ~~ r.eponed Photo Editor .................. John Macor
News Editor .................. Pam Degnan 
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the Qptmon of a 
News Editor ................ Tom Jackman Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges 
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are th.e v1ews of their authors. Column s~;>ace is available to all members of the c~mmuntty, and News Editor ............... John McGrath Advertising Manager .. Mike Holsinger the f~ expression of varymg opinions on campus, through letters, IS encouraged. SMC Executive Editor .. Margie Brassil Production Manager .... Ann Monaghan 

Features 
Thursday, April24, 1980 -page 7 
Musicviews 

Get Happy 
Elvis Costello 
(Columbia) 
In his fourthalbum, Get Happy, Elvis Costello does not stray from the formula that has served him so well on his previous outings. Yet, while no new ground has been broken here, Costello fans will be immensely pleased. Sales figures (the album ·currently ranks fifth on Billboard's Top 100) indicate that the initial base of Costello fans, built by the magnifi­cent "My Aim is True", has expand­
ed significantly. 
The intentionally ironic title, Get 
Happy, may have been more accur­
ately replaced by Get Depressed. 
Costello 1s an angry, bitter man, and 
this work is highly expressive of the 
pain he so obviously feels. His 
vocals, becoming hoarse at points, 
sound tortured. A recurring theme is 
the pain caused by frustrated loves. 
In ''B Movie'', he sings ''I don't want 
some fool asking me why/When I 
find you're finally making me cry''. 
Ever the doomsday prophet, Costello 
views the anguish as inevitable. 
Get Happy features twenty songs, 
a pleasant departure from recent 
trends in the music industry. Each · 
track is fairly short; the longest is 
only four minutes. The songs, like 
Costello's anger, come' in quick 
frenetic bursts which Costello seems 
unwilling to prolong. Together, they 
form a senes of fascinating and 
revealing vignettes, a structural tech-' 
nique that works very effectively. 
Nick Lowe, Costello's producer on 
each of the previous albums,· has 
once again done a superb job. The 
production on this album is clean and 
tight. Lowe and Costello choose to 
place· a heavy emphasis on the 
rhythm section, which is composed 
primarily of the drums and organ (an 
Unusual-touch). The drumming, 
which is excellent, is syncopated and 
variable. There is a noticeable 
absence of leads; while Costello 
seems unable to control his emotions, 
the music does remain disciplined 
and serves as a stable counterpoint to 
the lyrics. 

On Get Happy, Costello once again lives up to his reputation as one of the finest and most inventive lyricists in music today. Costello has a wonder­ful ability to use words and phrases which are rich with multiple mean­ings. In "Love For Tender", Costello metaphorically reduces love to series of financial relationships, singing, "The wages of sin are an expensive affection/They '//leave you bankrupt/Better pay up quick, don't interrupt!I'm so in love, I'm so sincere/just like a well-known finan­cier/You know I've never been corrupt." Costello's lyrics are such a pleasure that the absense of lyric sheets is a real disappointment. 
As an artist, Costello concerns himself less with entertainment than with self-expression. There is much more at stake in his music than commercial success; the album be­1comes a vitally important cathartic experie_nce. The listener is granted an opportunity to enter Costello's world a while to watch as he bares his doubts, fears, and anxieties. The ~xperience is fascinatin~ and some­times disturbing. Ultimately, the 
album is not the depressant it might be. Despite his own inclination_s to the contrary, Costello has not giVen up. As he indicates in ''Riot Act'', a brooding and powerful love song, things may yet work out. 
BillRoche 
Tenth 

Marshall Tucker Band 
(Warner) 
It doesn't seem like ,thatlong ago when the Marshall Tucker Band burst onto the music scene, which is probably why their newest is entitled Tenth, to remind us that they're no longer the new kids on the block. 
In the time since its first album, the band has gradually progressed from a bunch of· raw, rough-hewn 
· country rockers to a group of tight, glossily produced studio artists. Fortunately, they have made this progression without really selling out, and they can still produce good music in their new style. 
Lead guitarist Toy Caldwell still does most of the writing for the group, and he always combines an ear for a likable hook with drummer Paul Riddle's invariably loping rhythms and Doug Gray's slick, rangy tenor to come up with an appealing, if harmless, single to propel each album onto the charts., On Tenth it's "It Takes Time," just as it was ''Last of the Singing Cowboys" on R-unning Like the Wind, oF "Heard it in a Love Song" on Carolina Dreams. This enables the band to do just about whatever it likes with the rest of each album, and usually the results aren't too objec­tioaable. 
Rhr.thm guitarist George McCorkle contnbutes to four cuts on this album, the best of which is 'the Jim .Croce-ish "Gospel Singin Man," on which Gray gets to display his vocal abilities in die upper reaches of the treble clef during the difficult chorus. 
McCorkle also collaborated with Toy on the curious instrumental '']imi.'' Hendrix' ear-shatteringly innovative, distorted guitar style bears very little resemblance to this pair's clean, precision playing, but he may have been an early influence on them nonetheless. The rhythm strains sound very much like Jimi's hit ''The Wind Cries Mary,'' and strangely enough:, Toy is allowed a small amount of distortion in his leads by producer Stewart Levine. However, the song ends before it ever says anything. 
The real highlight of the record is Toy's "Save My Soul," the only song he sings on this album. Like on "Can't You See," Toy shows us that he·can sing·at least adequately, and I don't see why he doesn't do it more often. Doug Gray is easily more talented, but his refined timbre lacks the edge and· emotion of Toy's voice, so that the most emotive that he has ever been has been on songs like "Searching for a Rainbow" or"Fireon the Mountain.'' 
Toy's lyrics are well up to par on .this one as he bemoans the tempta­tion offalling in love with a ''wicked'' flirt. But lyrics never brought anybody over to the Marshall Tucker 
.Band, and when Toy, the fastest thumb-picking guitarist around, fi­nally works out his frustration after three agonizing verses, he explodes into a hot jam which is guaranteed to be a live show-stopper. So what if he can't hit every note just right in the refrains, the anticipation he builds up for the instrumental ranks this tune up there with "Ramblin" as one of their best rockers. 
It remains to be seen how much glossier and cleaner these guys can get, but if they can hang on to common sense and not sell out for a lar~er audience, they'll continue to sat1s~ their big following of fans. 
Tom jackman 
.. 

-
Ted loses his head 
Wednesday night I experienced what was the poorest show so far this year at the ACC, as th~ townies turned up in droves to see Terrible Ted Nugent. Fortunately the total number of ND students could have been seated comfortably in the Nazz. 
Ted Nugent started his show like any wild man should: swin~ing out on a rope in boots, tights, !om cloth, leather vest, and ofcourse his crazed mane flowing in all directions. At first, we were treated to that new type of lighting they're using at rock shows these days, the "Let's blind the crowd on the first number by shining spotlights in their eyes'' school of stage lighting. 
Once the show got going, Terrible Ted showed that he's still the fastest, winding through "Motor City Madbouse" like a crazed cat let out of a box. Unfortunately, it was hard to concentrate on the guitar work because when Ted Nugent turns up the volume, he overdoes it. The whole show is an ·exercise in overkill. Maybe he figures that if he deafens you enough you won't pay attention to the lyrics, which usually are horrible anyway (''Great White Buffalo" being the only exception). 
1\nother bizarre aspect was that Nugent felt it necessary to repeated­ly spit into the corner of the stage. (real classy, Ted. ) . 
All aside though, Ted Nugent .1s an excellent guitarist; unfort~nately, since he parted ways with the Amboy Dukes his material has gone downhill. The highlights of the show were when he broke into a few chords from "Hibernation" and when he ended the show with "The Great White Buffalo.'' 
The songs played from the band's new album, "Scream Dream," turned out to be standard Nugent fare, with "I Got to Move" sounding 
'!ike Nugentized Chuck Berry. 
However, when it comes to conning 
a crowd, expecially the bunch that 
showed up that night, Ted fast talks 
·  them  like  nobody  else  can.  Of  
'course  it's  all  the  same  sex  and  
drugs  and  rock-and-roll  stuff,  but  

they ate it up, especially his com­ments about·what acts he would like· to perform on the female members of the audience. They loved those remarks but then again, this is the kind of crowd that would have cheered for Goliath. 
In the end, I was relieved the show was over. There were a lot of black T-shirts wandering around Thursday saying, "What?" due to the mass hearing loss that was inflicted that night. Now don't get me wrong, I really used to like Ted Nugent, but with records you can control the volume. Simple, frantic stuff is great as long as you don't take it seriously, which Nugent doesn't do. Most of the crowd did, however. 
This was the fifth time I had seen· Nugent since the days of my youth when he used to play high school gyms with the Amboy Dukes. It will probably be my last. When I was 1) he was a god, when I was 18 he was fantastic, but when you're going on 22 and a senior in college he's just plain loud. 
The Romantics, a fine New Wave band, opened up the show to a less than respc;>n~ive crowd. The R:omafl:­
Mick Mancuso 
tics are a very_ good band if you see 
them in a small club, unfortunately, 
the high ener~y that comes across m 
the small environment does not fare well in a large arena. Granted, the Romantics looked tired Wednesday night, but the crowd was as lethargic as a dead fish. 
The sound man was obviously ­confused and thought that Nugent was already on the stagt. Thedec1bel thunder wiped out most of the group's vocal work. Di·ummer Jimmy Marinos thought he was Keith Moon reincarnated, while lead 1 axe man Mike Skill only gave us fleeting glimpses of what he could do. Many cr1tics have said that the Romantics sound much like early Beades and this point came across especially on "Tell it to Carrie." In the· end lead singer Wall Palmar summed it up by asking the audi­ence "What the f---do you need?!" 
Smoky joe, folk-r_ock recording artist and resident ofSouth Bend, will perform tomoTTow tn front ofLaFortune from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. in a free concert sponsored by the An Tostal Executive Committee. He will feature songs from his second album about to be released. 
~;;;;iiii;;iiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiii;;ii;;;;i;ii;;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;;~iiiiiiii;;;;;;;;ii;;;;;;ii;;;;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~;;ii,~~~
• ... .!it. ... ""."' .. ' ~.•
-.....-:r 


I 

~he Observer -Sports 'f.hursday, April24, 1980 -page 8 
' ­
' 
' 
...Tennis 
Molarity 



The Daily Crossword 
-

All Rights Reserved 

-~============~======~====* 

Bob's Western 
Shop 
20866 Pierce Rd. 

Lakeville, Indiana Turn east at the blinker light on U.S. 31 South 
Boots, shirts, belts, hats (straw and felt) with many new feathers to choose from. Open 7days a week I O:OOam to 7:00pm 
TONIGHT!!! 
YOCIOUS FOR U.M.O.C. 
9-lam AT LEE'S RIBS $1.75pitchers 
[continued from page 12) 
matches.l 
''It really feels great to win again," smiled Hopwood. "It sure is nice to have that monkey off my back.'' 
The only Irish loss came at number four singles. Irish coach Tom Fall on defaulted Mark Hoyer for disciplinary reasons in the third set of his received a scare as i Rainbow Warriors won the first set of all three matches. But the Notre Dame duos continued the third set m~stery the Irish have been noted for this year, and rallied to win them all. 
match  with  Hawaii's  Kirk  
McJ.dand.  
The  Irish  doubles  teams  


Irish players have won 28 of 39 three set matches this season, a major factor in the team's successful 14-2 campaign wjth seven matches remaining. 
"If just a few of those three-setters had gone the 
by Michael Molinelli 
8RIN6 ON THE MAFT... I'M READY NIJIN. 
ACROSS  26  Tamirofl  
1 Verboten  of movies  
5  Rocker and  27  Rail foun·  
stool  dations  
10  Small fish  31  Navy man  
14  African  35  The Ram  
seaport  36  Chicago  
15  Violinist  terminal  
Mischa  38  New Deal  
16  Tortoise's  agency  
opponent  39  Jack or ten  
17  Bird or  40  Mimics  
road  41  Dutch  
18  Copy of  cheese  
a kind  42  Yvette's  
19  One-celled  summer  
plant  43  Chose  
20  Place under  44  Aromatic  
constraint  herb  
22  Sporty car  45  Staid  
24  Artistic  47  Motorists'  
fad  aids  

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
SMC ELECTIONS 1980/1981 
CLASS AND HALL OFFICERS 
Thursday, April24, LeMans Lobby 10:00 -5:00 Madeleva Day Lounge 12:00-2:00 Cafeteria 5:00-6:00 

49 Not·SC>-12 Egg on bright one 13 Smokey or 51 Amusement Teddy park item 21 Talks on 52 Highway and on 
strip 23 Feast 56 Knavish one 25 Take as 60 Seagirt one's own 
land 27 Speeds 61 Clan emblem 28 Emulate 63 Initiate, Cicero 
in a way 29 Bruited 64 Gravelly about ridges 30 Diaphanous 65 Mohammedan 32 Kipling's 
decree demesne 66 God of love 33 Seize 67 Russian 34 Nominates 
news source 37 Fervor 68 Criminal 40 Drink, of 69 Unit of a kind 
force 41 Entangled 43 Indians DOWN 44 Egyptian 1 Pedro's lizard bull 46 Snakes 2 Spirited 48 Lindbergh ' steed and Rieken­3 Bondsman's backer 
concern 50 Worship 4 Coverless 52 Uproar 5 Withdraw 53 Greek 6 Old cloth mountain 
measure 54 Woe is me 7 Cupid 55 Lat. abbr. 8 Fiji bowl 57 Grant 9 Footwear 58 Certain 
10 Abysses bomb 11 Word of 59 -majesty warning 62 Tokyo. once 

other way," said Harris, "this whole season would mean so mud~ less. But as it is, we're still on schedule for another 20-win season.'' 
Harris didn't mention the fact that the number one doubles team (himself and Hopwood) remains very much alive in the race for an NCAA tournament bid. Their 3-6, 6-4, 6-4 win over Hawaii's Dean Dunn-Runtin and Nagel improved their season slate to 14-2, which also includes that same lucky thirteen straight. 
Playin~ in his first doubles competiuon of the season, sophomore Tom Hartzell teamed with freshman Mark McMahon at number two doubles, replacing Hoyer. The duo recorded a 3-6, 6-2, 6-3 win over Stu Saiki and McLeland. 
Only one more road trip remains for the Irish, a two-day swing through Michigan beginning this afternoon at Kalamazoo and ending tomorrow at Michigan State. The team will then return home for Sunday afternoon's An Tostal showdown with Ohio State, that match slated for one o'clock at the Courtney Tennis Cente 
... War 
[continued from page 5) 
Dillon then regrouped on the 
construction site and began to 
chant. "Suddenly, a pheno­
menal number of bottlerockets 
and fireworks were shot out of 
Grace with maybe a few from 
Flanner," Conklin continued. 
''There were about ten to ftf­
teen minutes of intense, rapid 
fire. Finally, everyone from 
Dillon began to leave. On 
the way back, we went through 
LaFortune and stopped at a 
few other dorms on campus." 
When Conklin was informed 
that there were two students 
injured, he said, "f'm really 
sorry. I don't think we threw 
anything. If there was some­
thing thrown, it might have 
been someone from Flanner 
who was responsible. A few 
of them joined us on the 
construction site to get Grace. ' ' 
''The activities tonight were something that the adminis­tration knew about before,'' Conklin stated. "Letters had been sent out to the towers from the administration, warn­ing them not to engage in any sort of ''war''. Father Burtchaell had hoped this wouldn't happen this year." 
Despite this, the annual ''war'' did occur with what many would say were good results. 
''This whole thin~ is mainly to get hall spirit gotng," Dun­ley commented. ''I guess it worked to a point." 
~NO BENDIX 
~ THEATRE
.SMC CENTURY 
THEATRE CENTER UNDER MILKWOOD 
284-9111 he gentle. humorou story ofa day in·the life ofa Welsh Village 
May 1, 2, 3 April25,26 S4.00 (S3.00 8pm Stu./ Fac./ Staff) 


!___ 


• 

The Observer -Sports Thursday, April24, 1980 -page 9 
Erving, Sixers hold of£ Celtics 
PHILADELPHIA (AP)­Julius Erving scored 28 points as the Philadelphia 76ers held off a frantic final-period Boston rally to beat the Celtics 99-97 last night and take a 2-1 lead in their National Basketball Asso­ciation pljlyoff semifinal series. 
The 76ers, trailing 60-59, out­scored the Celtics 19-8 in a third period eruption that gave them a 78-66 lead at the end of three quarters. Erving scored 12 and Caldwell Jones four during the Philadelphia rally. 
· The 76ers increased their lead to 88-74 midway through the fourth quarter, when the Celtics suddenly caught fire and moved within two at 99-97 with 39 seconds left on Larry Bird' s third three-point field. goal of the game. 
Boston got the ball back, but in a scramble under the basket the 76ers stole it and dribbled away the final 10 seconds. 
Erving got offensive help from veteran Lionel Hollins, who scored 16, and Maurice Cheeks and Darryl Dawkins, each with 14. 
Bird, the fabulous rookie from Indiana State who triggered the Celtics to the best record in the NBA this season, collected 22 points, while Nate Archibald contributed 19 and Cedric Max­well 17. 
Boston led 47-45 at halftime with the help of ·10 points and 11 rebounds by Bird. It was a three-point field goal by Bird with 18 seconds left in the half that erased a 45-44 Philadelphia lead. 
•

Lakers dump &lnics, evensenes 
LOS ANGELES (AP)­Kareem Abdul-] abbar scored 31 points and collected 16 rebounds last night to power lthe Los Angeles Lakers to a 1108-99 victory over the Seattle 'l;uperSonics that evened their 
National Basketball Association playoff series at one game apiece. 
Laker guards Earvin "Magic" Johnson and Norm Nixon had 19/oints each for the Lakers, an Jamaal Wilkes added 16. 
Gus Williams was Seattle's 
leading scorer with 24 points, 
Dennis Johnson chipped in 20 
and Lonnie Shelton 15. Fred 
Brown, the Sonics' reserve 
guard . who ha~ scored ?4 
points m Seattle s 108-107 vtc­
tory Tuesday night, had 14 in 
Game Two. 
Defending NBA champion 
Seattle, behind by 11 points at 
the start of the final quarter, 
(continued from page 12] 
The Irish received good news on the medical front Wednesday when they ~ot the word that defensive lmeman Kevin Griffith will be available for action in the fall ... Griffith, who had been having an excellent spring until he was sidelined by an old knee injury, will be ready to go in August, according to team physician Dr. Leslie Bodnar. 
Offensive center may turn out to be one of Notre Dame's strongest and deepest positions in 1980... Devine lauded the progress of both Larry Kissner and Barry Young, who will serve behind All-America cut the Lakers' margin to three 
at 95-92 with 3:53 remaining, 
but the .Lakers pulled awayagain. Nixon's 20-foot jumper with 
2: 50 to play put the Lakers up 97-92, ending a 3:40 scoring drought for Los Angeles. After a basket by the Sonics' Shel­ton, Spencer Haywood's jumper made it 99-94 and the Lakers built their final margin from there. 
The game had been close, with the Lakers generally ahead but unable to pull away until late in the third period. Beginning with 4:44 left in the period, Los Angeles reeled off a 14-~ string that gave them a 13-pomt pad. 
Reserve forward Haywood started the charge with a short jumper that put the· Lakers up 71-66. The streak ended with 
1:26 remaining in the period when Abdul-] abbar sank a free ! 
• • • Football, 
candidate John Scully ... Young,! an engineering major, has been .excused from the remaining drills so that he may 1 
give  more  attention  to  
academics.  
Devine also had praise  for  

sophomore running backs John Sweeney and Phil Carter, split end Tony Hunter, linebacker John Rice and strong safety Tom De Siato ... De Siato is currently the number one strong safety with Steve Cichy being held out of contact drills ... De Siato started Notre Dame's final game of 1979 in the Mirage Bowl against Miami (Fla.), when Cichy was shelved with a shoulder injury. 
-----------------------------~ 
Wanted: COUNTRY/ROCK JAM DIRECTOR 
Contact 
Bill Lawler 
1 
I 
J 
·*. . I 

..··~ 
I 
:t 
,: .or I 

I I ... . . . I
..,, 
'--~--~-~------~----~~-~----~-­
.... 
throw for 83-70. Johnson had five points during the streak that put the Lakers in control. 
Heading into the final quar­ter, the Lakers 85-74. 
The best-of-seven series shifts t0 Seattle for games Friday night and Sunday afternoon. 
Doonesbury 

by Garry Trudeau 

I (1)(JLOA H& 0!!3lJ, 700,
OH.. 7HAT'5 
514/0RN THAT Bl!T I GIJ&SS
RIGHT.. 
5llJRY HJI£J A 71-IAT IAJASN7 
R/NNY&N/J!NG. OUR
\ 
" 

Ouradvertising sales staffis expanding­
~w~.~ ..... 

and we want you. Liberal commissions andflexible hour,s available. 
call7471 for furtl~er information 
STARTNOW:FORNEXTFALL! 
We'll give you hair that doe~ everything. In style. 
You're on the go through a full day, keeping fit, moving into evening without missing a beat. Does your hair keep up? It can, with the help of our styling experts and the new Redken Day Into Night* permanent wave. Your hair can look 
·sensational from early morning right through the dancing hours. Rain or shine. Call us now. 

· ··, Mo.isture Cotitrol< ,1g ·, ·Rerman~ot Wa'!Je ' . , . ..
r ..... ··:·: .:·.-·. ·. -. ·. __ ·' r-.. :~;; ..?~:-.: .·.. .. .>~· .:_:·_:___ ,~_:_:_-.•.-.'_.:..·_;_~--.•·.'.. ··,:··_"·_,:,:~---~.·_.:··_·~·-·:~-'::·:,,:··~~-:_,.·j__ ..:_:._;,~-~-·.-_._.--.-.••.!.·~.---_·.···.•_,_·....·.·_·._•·-·-~--.-.·_f.'.~.~--.;.·_;_·.:_._
.. ;·,._:_,.:_·_ .. · .. 

:~_._.:·_·.~-! '_:.~_•_:_·_ •HAI:R,.DESIGN~RS,
. . ·. . ' . :· .. :>;:l')rs .Sttouis ;))):'~.:::<.~:. 
A._ -·_·A'_ 3.4__ . . ·... ·::~(:,.··;-·· soutt1-&end'_.. ::_:,·..i;:/~_:t ·_. 
~ ._,4.····!~.:.-··
23 3 
i, •. , •• 
,, 
,-•1-•,···· 
. i 


The Observer -Sports Thursday, April24, 1980 -page 10 
LeMans/MLOmdless­Reginatovie for flag crown 
by Deirdre Grant Sports Wn'ter 
Another season of St. Mary's Flag Football began in Tues­day's heated clash between Regina Hall and Augusta/Off­Campus. Ninety-degree weather was not the only heat of the day, as winning Regina coach Brian Kenney termed his team ·'so hot that we are untouchable, prepared to fight for our deserved spot in An Tostal." 
The 19-13 Regina victory marked rhe beginning to a race to play Breen-Phillips, Notre Dame's inrerhall champion. 

RIVE .CITY 
northeln lndlono'slotgeat tecotd a 
selectiQn and concett11cketne4~"•~uc~m~ts·· 
Sl.OO 

Regina, primarily a freshman team, dominated the ~arne offensively and defenstvely, with an intense running attack and a strong defensive line. The team also showed great pass potential, with a 100 percent completion average. 
The Regina team was crowned champions in the fall season, and will face-off against a combined LeMans/McCandless team this afternoon. The two-dorm team dumped Holy Cross yesterday, 6-0. 
The winner will go on to meet Breen-Phillips in one of the annual highlights of An Tostal on Saturday at 2:30p.m. 
.. 

•20,000~lbums & ta.pealn stock 
• 
Hug• cut-out and apeciallmpottselection I 

•ND-smc 
checks a.ccepteod up to $20.00 over putc:ha~e ~'11ount open tOto 10 


7doya ·. 
1ni424i· 


HELP WANTED 
summer bartenders are needed at Lee's great pay & great food apply in person at Lee's' 
...Masochist 

[continued from page 12] 
Bookstore player. He is not a varsity athlete, with the btg name and preferential treatment from the officials that goes along with it. He plays with four other anonymous players, and Tuesday night they were up against a squad that featured Dave Duerson, Hardy Rayam and Ian Gray. 
Myler and his teammates--Rick Mahoney, Bob Fa~an, Skip Marks and Bob Bksch--scrap­ped thetr way to an 11-8 halftime lead, but fell behind 20-16, just one point away from elimination. 
They were falling victim to cold shooting and thoroughly intimidated officials. Rayam was having a hard time communicating with one official at one point in the second half. So at 6-5 and 242 pounds, he decided to get his }Joint across by shoving him in the chest. !he nameless and spineless official proved that 
• • • Hoops 
[continued from page 12] 
In fact, Davis' heroics might have earned him the Best Shooter of the Day award if it weren't for Paul Flood. Flood shot the ball ten times yesterday and scored ten points to pace P.F. a.nd the FLYERS to a 21-13 wm over SMC. .. Mike Morris had six for the FLYERS while Don Cleary tallied seven points on 25 attempts for the losers. 
In other action. Tom Lange hit five of 11 shots to pace Born to Run over Theo and the Hose Monsters, 21-11. Tom VanDenburgh's six points topped the losers' boxscorc. 
Bill Myler and Bob Blesch combined for 10 points .to lead US over Sean Cilia, 21-13. Brian Clingen and Dan Stockrahm each had four for the Cilia squad 
Bookstore action continues tomorrow afternoon when the quarterfinal rounds will take place behind the bookstore beginning at 6:15. 
Bookstore action will continue through the final round, slated for Sunday at noon behind rhe A.C.C. 
Notre Dame is indeed a Christian institution by ignoring Rayam's eloquent plea. 
Somehow, perhaps through sheer willpower, Myler led his US team into a 20-all deadlock. And then, with the sun long since gone, Fagan dropped in a free throw to give US a gut-wrenching 22-20 victory. 
After Fagan's toss fell through the net, the game that will undoubtedly be remembered as a Bookstore classic became history, and bedlam erupted. 
The fans did not mob Fagan, who scored the winning point. Instead they jumped all over Myler, who had a chance to end the game with a 
free throw, but missed.  
That's  because  sinking  game-winning  free  
throws is not what Bookstore is all about.  Bill  
Myler is what Bookstore is all about.  

I just hope he could find his brains again in all the commotion after the game. • 



I 0 . • \ l ,.: I ,·..;.•, 
.' •' ,i....~ 


l'he Observer -SportsBoard Thursday, April24~ 1980 -page 11 

•
Bookstore 
Tennis 
Rugby 
Baseball 
Basket ball . 
Yesterday's results 

Defending Chumps over Classified Nads by 8 . Head Over Heels over Incredible Edibles by 2 (OT) Jayne Kennedy over Assassins by 2 (OT) 
P.F. and the Flyers over SMC Prix by 8 Stappamasquon over Hell's Angels by 4 US over Sean's Celia by 8 Born to Run over Theo and the Hose­
monsters by 10 Much Later WEB over Irish Guards by 8 
Tomorrow's Quarterfinals 

Jayne Kennedy vs. P.F. and the Flyers,
6:15 Born to Run vs. Much Later WEB, 6:15 Strappamasquon vs. US, 7:00 Defending Chumps vs. Head over Heels, 
7:00 
All quarterfinal games will be played behind the bookstore. ~emlflnal and final games will be played behind the ACC.
-
NOTRE DAME 8, HAWAII1 

Singles No. 1-Mark McMahon (N D) del. Dean 
Dunn·Runtin, 6-4, 6·4.  
No. 2-Carlton Saiki, 6-3, 6-3.  Harris  (N D)  del.  Stu  
No. 3-Herb Hopwood Nagel, Jr., 7-6 (5·4), 7·5.  (NO)  del.  Ray  

No. 4-Kirk Mcleland (H) del. Mark Hoyer 6-2, 2·6. 3-4 default. No. 5-Tom Hartzell (N D) del. Ross Higa, 7-5, 6-0. No. 6-Tom Robison (NO) del. Ashraf Hamouda, 6-2; 6-1. 
Doubles 

No. 1-Harris/Hopwood (N D) de:. Dunn­Runtin/R. Nagel, 3-6, 6-4, 6-4. No. 2~McMahon/Hartzell (NO) del. Saiki/Mcleland, 3-6, 6-2, 6-3. No. 3-Jim Falvey/Tim Noonan (NO) del. Hamouda/Scott Nagel, 4-6, 6-3, 6-1. 
Notre Dame 18, John Carroll ("A" game) 
Notre  Dame  30,  John  Carroll  0 (" B"  
game) Notre  Dame·  22,  .klhn  Carroll  0 ("C"  
game)  

Interhall 

SMC Flag Football Yesterday's semifinal McCandless/LeMans 6, Holy Cross 0 Today's Championship Regina vs. McCandless/LeMans. 4:30. 
Hockey 

Stanley Cup Playoffs Best-of-Seven Tonight's game Montreal at Minnesota, 9:05 (Montreal leads series, 3-2) 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Yesterday's results Detroit 5, Texas 4 Cleveland 7, Milwaukee 3 California 17, Minnesota 0 New York 6, Baltimore 5 Kansas City 7, Toronto 4 Oakland 5, Seattle 2 Chicago at Boston, ppd., rain 
Today's Game Chicago (Dotson 1-1) at Boston (Stanley 1-0), (d) 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Yesterday's results Montreal 3, Pittsburgh 2 St. Louis 3, Chicago 1 Atlanta 2, San Diego 1 · New York 3, Philadelphia 2 Cincinnati 3, Houston 2, 12 innings Los Angeles 4, San Francisco 0 
Toda(s games San Diego (Jones 1-1) at Atlanta (Alex­ander 0·1), (n) San Francisco (Monteiusco 1-2) at Los Angeles (Welch 0-1), (n) 


----------------'----------------·---·­
NBA Playoff 
Best-of-Seven 
Last Night's Results 
Eastern Conference Finals 

Philadelphia 99, Boston 97 (Philadelphia 
leads series 2-1) 
Western Conference Finals 
Los Angeles 108, Seattle 99 (Series tied 

1-1) ' 
Transactions 
FOOTBALL 
NEW ENGLAND PA OTS-Announ­

ced that Stanley Morgan, wide receiver, 
has agreed to terms. 
NEW YORK GIANTS-Traded Joe 

Pisarcik to the Philadelphia Eagles for a 
middle-round 1981 draft choice. 
WASHINGTON REDSKINS-Signed 

Mike Helms, punt returner-defensive 
back, and Vollon Dickson, wide receiver. 
' 
L~. 

Thursday, Apfil24, 1980 -page 12
~ports 
' 

Myler: Bookstore masochist 
When some basketball players ster.onto the court, they take off a chain or a meda and hand it to a spectator until the game is over. Wh(·n Bill Myler steps onto the asphalt at Stepan Center. he takes out his brains and hands them to ·a friend for safekeepin~. 
At least that's the tmpression you get watching him play, because surely no sane or 
rational  man  would  abust  his  body ,in  the  
manner that Myler do es.  
Basketball  players  ;tre  evaluated  in  any  

number of ways--points scored, shots made, shots blocked rebounds grabbed and backboards shattered. And then some witty scribe invented a category for the player whose contributions aren · t found in The Sporting News-floor burns. That has kind of a nice ring to it, and it does ·convey a certain message about a player, but it's rather intangible. I've yet to see Brent Musburger count Dennis Johnson's floor burns 
during an interview. 

The courts at Stepan Center, Lyons and the Bookstore, however. aren't hardwood or tartan. They're made of asphak and if you're lucky, the surface is level. More often than not, they're not. In fact, when Bookstore VII graced the pages of Sports Illustrated two years ago, the arttcle was entitled, "Look Out For The Manhole Cover1 '' That makes it very easy to measure Bill Myler's contributions to his team-simply add up all rhe places on his body where he has drawn blood. 
Last weekend the folks at CBS who bring you NBA basketball every Sunday really thought they had something when they bombarded viewers with a film clip of Larry Bird hurtling himself head-first off rhe court and skidding into the base of the bleachers. 
Craig

Chval 
Sports Writer 

Tuesday night, Bill Myler found out that play won't work on. Stepan Court No.7. But it took him three times to tigure it out, and I'm still not too sure he's convinced. But I am absolutely sure that none of the several hundred spectators are convinced that Bill Myler is for real. As one fan put it, ''You don't do that kind of thing when there's no money. '' 
For eight months out of the school year, Bill Myler is just another Notre Dame undergrad, studying earth science, trying to figure out why the girls act so funny and maybe shooting a few,. hoops at the Rock. 
But when April rolls around, Myler is the consummate Bookstore rlayer. There are scores of very good basketbal players in this tourna­ment, and maybe, just maybe, there is even another player with the same amount of disregard of his body that Myler has. 
Myler, however, is at once both a surgeon and a kamikaze pilot. For every loose ball he skins a knee to grab, he'll pick the pocket of an opposing guard as pretty as a picture for another. He is perhaps the rarest of all combinations, rivaling the "20" that would unite the body of Bo Derek and the mind of Chuck Barris. 
Tuesday night, Bill Myler proved beyond any doubt that he is indeed, the epitome of a 
[continued on page 10] 
Assassins shot down 
'Sweet 16' 
by Frank LaGrotta squad, Head over He~ls held 
Sports Wn'ter on to beat the Edibles, 23-21, 
keyed by the shooting of Bill You had to be there to believe Copeland who finished with ir. and that's not just a witty eight points. cliche. It was a battle of the big men If you were not among, the 1000 as Mike Shiner led all scorers plus people that jammed the with mne buckets on 19 bleachers aside the bookstore attempts. Shiner's hot hand courts for last night's kept the Edibles in the game "octafinal" rounds. then you after their top shooter, Steve missed something worth Notaro suffered a shoulder seetng. injury early in the game. 
The battles began at 4:4), Notaro remained in the game, but the wars started around 7. but was relatively ineffective That's when .Jayne Kennedy ... thereafter. took on The Assassins on Healy 'had five points for the Bookstore Court No. 9, and winners including a spectacular Head over Heels mer the overhand hook shot in ln~.:redibk Edibk;; on surface overnme. Pat Kramer No. 10. Both games ourlasted continued to be the team's the daylight. Both games went inside strength and managed in10 overtime. Both games four points on the night. Steve fearured great displays of· Cichy hit five for the losers and lronman basketball at its be~t. won the battle of the boards 
l·reshman Chris Sto(le's with 10 rebounds. eight points provided the In other action, the tmoews for Jayne tournament's number-one Kennedy's... 27-2) win over the seed, Defending Chumps, put As;;;as~.ins. Despite Bob on an entertaining display that Crables nine for 18 shooting reflected the true spirit of the pertormance, the Assassins rournament. Matched against could not overcome the roommate Bo Ellis' team, tenaci•ms Kennedy squad and Classified Nads, Chump player time and again fell prey to Bill Hanzlik arrived at the court their quickness. in disguise. In fact, he was 
Kennedy's Dave ''Rough forced to play the entire game Hands" Mitchell displayed in street shoes because ofsome cool under fire as he hit a villiany on the part of the free throw late in the contest to opposition who pirated all of send the game into overtime. his basketball shoes. (Which Mitchell finished with five was no easy task, :sidering points on the night, while Hanzlik own~ ar,ow j() pair.) teammate Eric Flennery hit The Defe•• .-. 1•••-:..•s won
"1 seven. Keith.Marrero had five the game , i,_ .ne most for the winners while Scott enjoyable gatue of the day. Bailey had stx for the In fact, Ellis led all scorers Assassins. with eight ~oints on 16 Meanwhile, on Court No. 10, attemws, despite the fact that Tim Healy and Scott Zettek he was guarded by Hanzlik for were locked in an overtime· most of the afternoon. The battle of their own. Healy's., Chumps were again keyed by 
•
remam 
Rusty Lisch and Dan Short, each with six points. 
Much Later W.E.B. 
continued to show rheir mettle, 
defeating the Irish Guards 1II, 
21-13. Bob Keenahan paced 
W.E.B. with seven points while teammate Kevin Dix threw in six. Brian Kilbane had five for the outmanned Guards. 
Strappamasquon and the Combat Wombats had no easy rime with Hill's Angels. The Wombats needed Pete Holohan's nine for 18 performance to dump the 
Angels, 21-17. Mike Courey and Willie Fessler had four each for the winners. with Mark Davis' awesome 10 of 17 shootingJerformance dazzling the crow for the losers. 
[continued on page 10] 
13th straight 
.. 
'' 
. 
' 
-~ 

The best of Bookstore Basketball all rolled into one-A shoeless Bzll Hanzlik clowni'!$ around before he and Defef!ding Chumps beat Classzfted Nads, 21-13. [photo by Joel AnnableJ 
Quarterbacks accounted for 
by Craig Chval Sports Writer 

A new development in the Notre Dame quarterback derb) ... the starting quarterback for the opening ga'ne of the 1980 ·season Purdue was on the field during Wednesday's drill~ at Cartier Fie I d ... sorry, but Tthe Observer cai1 make this startling revelation only be-:ause both Blair Kiel and Scott Grooms were watching pracrice in street clpthes. Kiel and Grooms will join the Irish quarterback fray as freshmen in August, battling seniors Tim Koegel, Greg Knafelc, and Mike Courey for the job. 
Wednesday's drills started -off slowly, but the pace quickened when the ream repeated its full contact goal line and third and long situations ... " It was a very intense scrimmage, with good 
Spring Football '80 
hitting." said Irish head coach Dan Devine, wh6 will give his players Thursday off to "catch up ac.ademically and physically.'' 
[continued on page 9] 

Hawaii falls to streaking Irish 
by Michael Ortman something about the ~earn 
Associate Sports Editor you're playing ahead of ume, 
but we didn't know a thtng. It 
And so it continues ... got us a little scared at first." 
The Notre Dame tennis team Harris and his teammates continued its torrid play shook off any fears they might yesterday as the Irish extended have had in a hurry, coasung their winning streak to 13 with to five strp.ight__:.set singles an 8-1 hammering of visiting victories, clinching the match Hawaii at the Courtney Tennis before the doubles competition Center. had begun. 
''It was a mystery match for The Rainbow Warriors, us.'' said Irish senior captain playing the first of ~everal Carlton Harris. "We knew matches on a mtdwest nothing about Hawaii before mainland trip, dropped to the match except that they 33-13 but are little more than played a busy schedule and half way through their almost they'd probably have good unbelieveable 80 match· tans. Usually you know a little schedule. Today they are at Purdue. 
''When do they ever find time for school?'' asked one spectator. 

Sophomore toni Robison extended his personal winning streak to 13 wtth a 6-2,·6-1 win -­over Ashraf Hamouda at number six singles. 
Notre Dame's number ·three singles man, Herb Hopwood, reversed his downward trend with a 7-6, 5-4, 7·6 win over Hawaii's Ray Nagel. The Arlington, Va., native had been mired in a week-long slump, losing all three of his 
[continu_.ed on page 8] 






