... Bye-bye, VB's -page 5 

VOL. XV, NO. 9 THURSDAY* SEPTERMER 4, 1980
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 

.. 
]ubzfant raiders display their trophies from last night's panty razd. See related stories on this page. [photo by Beth Prezio] 
I Carterplans new Mid-East summit 
I 
i WASHINGTON (AP)-HoursI before Ronald Reagan's appea­
I 
rance before' an important Jew­ish organization, President Car­ter offhandedly disclosed plans yesterday for another Middle East peace summit, and spent the rest of the day courting ethinic and black voters in the industrial Northeast. 
Seizing the offenisive in his re-election campaign, Carter casually apnounced that Egyp­tian and Israeli leaders had agreed to resume their stalled peace negotiations and to meet with him at anothe Mideast summa. 
In response to Carter's re­marks, Reagan last night said that President Carter has sacri­

for B'nai B'rith, the Jewish service organization, said he is concerned about ambiguities in the accords produced by the Camp David summft two years ago. 
"There are basic ambiguities in the documents Camp David roduced, both in the links be­tween the Israeli-l:gyptian peace and in the provisions for an autonomous regime in theWest Bank and the· Gaza Strip," 
Reagan said. "These ambiguities 
have now brought negotiations
" 
to a dangerous 1mpasse. . 
l·.gypt suspended peace talks a rponth ago after Israel declared that all Jerusalem, including the Arab-populated eastern sector it has held sinGe the 1967 war, will remain its permanent capital. 

"Unlike the days prior to 1967, Jerusalem is now and will con­·tinue to be one city, undivided, with continuing free access for all," Reagan said. He accused the Carter administration of cynically undercutting Israel by failing to veto a U.N. resolution opposing Israeli control of the city. 
"I believe the problem of Jerusalem can be solved by men of good will as part of a per­manent settlement," Reagan said. ·'The immediate problem is to make it easier for men ofgood .vill to come to the peace table .., 

Gunmen rob 0-C students at home 
By Tom]ackman News Editor 

Two Notre Dame students living off campus had their house broken into and were then robbed at gunpoint last night by four men who took an expensive stereo system and other valuables worth a total of close to $900. 
Steve Hoey, a senior from Long Island, NY, was reading in the study of his small house at 1121 b. Corby St., just offSouth Bend Ave., when four as­sailants, described as young males approximately 17-21 years old, punched through the locked screen door and forced their way in at about 11:25 p.m. 
One, brandishing a rifle, ointed a gun at Hoey's neck and swung him around toward the wall, shouting "Where's the money, where's the money?" Hoey was then clubbed in the back of the head by the rifle butt, and forced to the floor. 
While his assistants un­hooked the stereo, the man with the gun asked, "Where's your partner, where's your partner?", referring to Hoey's roommate, senior Rick Valen­cia of St. Joe, MO. 

Valencia was brought out of his bedroom and made to lay on the floor also, and he too was smashed in the back of the head with the rifle butt, opening up a wide gash which later sent him to St. Joe's Hospital for ob­)>servation. 
The assailants then took Valencia's wallet as well as Hoey's, while the two lay motionless, feigning uncon­ciousness on the floor. The four men grabbed two calculato:-s and a wristwatch, warned Hoey and Valencia not to call the police, and then fled. 
No other damage was done to the house, and no other items were stolen, including a class ring and a wristwatch in open view. The stolen stereo com­ponents consisted ofa Technics turntable, a Hitachi tape deck, and a Kenwood receiver valued at close to $800. 
Hoey and Valencia were not 
without  clues  to  a  motive,  
however.  .l:<.arlier  that  after­ 
con,  an  incident  outside  the  

house occurred which mav have led to the break-in last night. 
A small alley runs adjacent to the modest Corby St. house, sometimes used by motorists to 
(continued on page 4) 
Darners pilfer panties 
by DavidSarphie 
The campuses of Notre dame and Saint Mary's broke .out into a near-riot last night, as a mob of well-over a thousand eager young men participated in the annual panty raid. 
The predominantly-freshman group amassed at the north quad at eight-thirty and tore across the Notre Dame campus, gaining in number and intensity as it crossed the South Quad. Anyone in the area could hardly miss the chant, ''Get the Hell out! '' as the group urged others to J'oin. Intermittently walking 
ficed America's reputation as a 
an runnin~, the herd reached 
trustworthy ally and let 
Saint Mary s in hot pursuit of 

''Doubt and distrust'' cloud Viewfrom the top 
the highly cherished "Silk." 
U.S. relations with Israel. 
At that point the group split 
The Republican presidential 
up in order to cover every dorm 
nominee said Carter policies 
on the campous. That dorm that 
have permitted the Soviet 
accomodates most of the fresh­


SMC women weather raid
Union to make inroads in the 
men girls, Regina, was hit 
Middle East which are "ap­
hardest. 
proaching a flashpoint,'' but 
Although the women did part
by Di'ane Mazurek The award for displaying the most original 
added that he could peacefully 
with their lingerie, they were
artifact out her window went to Deanna of
blunt that thrust. 
prepared with a battery of arms
The approaching roar of distant chants Regina South who finally found a creative use
"Today we have fewer real 
• consisting of water ballons and
threw the entire Saint Mary's student body for her stuffed pink satin leg with the
allies, and among those we 
toilet-tissue rolls. The men
into hurried preparations last night when connected hot pink tutu.
speak with diminished author­
were doused with water when
hundreds of silk-starved Notre Dame men As the silk ran low, paper replaced it as the 
they began yelling ••show some
ity," he said. ". . .Israel today 
took ~art in the traditional panty raid most popular matenal. Homemade paper 
skin!" They retaliated, how­
is in grave danger and so is 
preceding the first home football game. Amid panties, airplanes and other paraphernalia
freedom itself.'' 
ever, with several rows of
shouts, screams, and whistles arrived the floated down upon the mob. Some began a 
exposed derrieres.
Reagan outlined his Middle 
event the SMC students had been expecting new chant of "We want skin" along with 
The taller men had betterluck
East policy, expressed reserva­
all week. other requests. 
in catching the falling garments
tions about the Camp David 
As most of the crowd gathered beneath the .An hour after rhos fust adventurers
accords and declared his sup­
and diapers.
windows of Regina South, flashilights broke marched over, the throng at last began to 
One Notre Dame student was
port for an undivided, Israeli 
out in search of "the cute ones." Those on subside, leaving dorm rooms with footprints 
so enchanted with his catch that
Jerusalem-hours after Carter 
the other side of the wall must have been in the strangest places, torn curtains, 
he wore it: a size 44-D bra.
announced that Egypt and 
searchin~ for the same as several scaled the telephones just beginning to ring and rolls 
Another student was equally
Israel will resume peace negoti­
walls wah weekend party invitations and and rolls of used camera ftlms.
ations within a few. weeks. 
pleased. "I got some Underalls.
suggestions of making not only bargains but The men, on the other hand, were left with 
Hey, the commercial was right;
Carter said the leaders ofboth 
trades. such things as·sheer blue undies proclaiming; 
these are soft and-smooth!" he
lands are "deeply committed to 
From second floor rooms came everything 'If you want to see more of me call ..." lists 
commented.
the Camp David peace process," 
from shouts of ''Look at the ~uy in the yellow of names and phone numbers, and newly 
One minor injury was sus­
and had agreed to a new Mideast 
~ligator shirt!'' to groans of 'The ugliest guy broken .crecords" from past years. 
tained when an overly ambi­
summit meeting with him later 
JUSt got my best underwear!" The 1980 panty raid was so enjoyed by one 
tious student attempted to scale
this year. 
And the girl who threw the 44D bra did that it was suggested there be a vice-ver~ 
the side of Regina Hall and
nothing to stop the excitement. raid for the girls in the near future.
Reagan, in a speech prepared 
twisted his ankle. 
~-----~-~ ---­
--~ 

News Brie ;s 
by The Observer and The AsJociated Press 
Nearlr, burned alive, on wen fire fighter Paul" 'Red" Adair remained in satisfactory condition at Clear Lake Hospital on Wednesday, re­covering from injuries suffered when he was thrown into a pool of hot water while working on a blowout, doctors say. Adatr said he was aboard a tractor, dragging a wrecked derrick away from a burning well near Villahermosa, Mexico, when the accident occurred. Adair said he suff~:red no broken bones or other major injuries in the M(lnday accident. 
Jacques Cousteau, the French pioneer of undersea exploration, will sail his oceanographic research shi~ Calypso into Lake Superior next week to film ~hree documentaries for the National Film Board of Canada. Cousteau will be filming in the Superior Shoals, between the Pictured Rocks Natonal Lakeshore along Michigan's northern peninsula and Whitefish Bay. The Superior Shoals area is known for severe fall storms which have claimed many ships, including the 729-foot ore carrier Edmund Fitzgerald which broke apart during a 1975 gale. All 29 Fitzgerald crewmen perished. 
The President, Charlie 
Daniels, and attendants surprised everyone when they stepped off Carter's Jetstar in Tuscumbia, Ala., this week. To begin with, I )aniels drew louder applause than the President as Carter got off the plane in his casual Western dress. Later, at a Labor I >ay picnic, Carter told the crowd ofabout 20,000 that he had recently reminded Daniels that when he gave three Carter fund-raisers in 1976 "not many people knew who you were and now you're world-famous. Daniels wasn't about to let that pass. He replied: "Mr. President, when I gave those three fund-raisers for you in 1976, a lot more people knew who I was than knew who you were." 
Elvis Preslev's estate isn't responsible for paying for the home oftr:;_e singer's last girlfriend's mother, a judge says. Chancellor Wil Doran dismissed a suit byJo Laverne Alden claiming Presley promised to pay off her $40,000 mortgage, Clarles Glascock, her attorney, said Tuesday. oran's opinion had not been filed Tuesday and Henry Beaty, an attorney for the Presley estate, could not be reached for comment. Mrs. Alden, who filed the suit in 1978, said she became close to Presley when he began dating her daughter 
Ginger in early 1977. 
Stocks rose strone:lyforthes~cond~traight day today, pushed upwars by the'a'ownw~rd spt~al of mter~st rates. Trading accelerated from Tuesdays relattvely sluggtsh pace. The post-Labor Day rally got rolling Tuesday when interest rates turned downward in the bond and short-term money markets. Another apparent plus was the governme~t's report Tuesday ofa 5.7 percent jump in factory orders dunng July. The increase was the first since last January and the largest 
in almost 10 years. 
"A Hoax" is wh;U Assistant u.s. Attorney Thomas M. Coffin called a classified ad in a newspaper announcing his ' resignation He suspects somebody he once convicted did it. The advertisement in the San Diego Union and the lwening Tribune said Coffin and Roger W. Haines Jr., anothr federal prosecutor specializeing in criminal law, had formed a private law partnership. A spokesman for the two newspapers said the ad was placed jover the telephone by a man claiming to be Coffin. The $120 cost was never paid. It is a federal offense to impl·rsonate a federal officer or to use the tdephone to defraud. 
That secre.t spy shopknownastheN;~tional Security Agency whtch !Ceeps tabs on everybody else w1th the use of sophisticated electronic surveillance equipment, ap­parently can't keep track of its own wooden desks and chairs. Sleuth supplies for the facility have become the victims of missions impossible, according to the Defense Audit Agency ' which oversees the Anne Arundel County operations for the Pentagon. The group's audit uncovered "erroneous postings, inaccurate storage locater listings, inadequate physical and accounting controls, inactive repair program and lack of controls over the disposal of office furniture." Therefore, the audit concluded, "office furniture was not properly accounted for and was subject to theft or misuse." The audit failed to reveal much about the secret snoopers' agency, noting only that it inventoried $456,000 worth of furniture rather than listing the numbers ofchairs and typing tables. Of the $192,000 worth of wooden furniture inventoried, $29,000 was not in its proper place, and there were "discrepancies" in an additional $14,000 worth, according to the June 3 audit report. • 
Sunny'today with a 40 percent chance of late afternoon thundershowers. Highs today in the low to mid 80s. Partly cloudy with a 30 percent chance of thunderstorms tonight. Lows in the upper 50s to low 60s. Mostly sunny tomorrow with highs in the low to mid 80s. 
Thursday, September 4, 1980 -page 2 
Inside Thursday 
Anderson's 'centrist' politics 
An intriguing political term has arisen re­cently-we don't know how new it is-during the independent presidential candidacy of Rep. 
John Anderson. It is the word "centrist." We are interested to know the origin ofthis moniker: did it emerge from the depths of Anderson's ever­idealist campaign, or from the ever-attacking opposing parties, or did the ever-cynical press hang it on him? In any case, it is an accurate labd, one much more descriptive than buzzwords lh;:e "conservative," "moderate," or "liberal" in this campaign of images rather than issues. 
If"centrist" is indeed a new term, it could eas::y have been conceived/resurrected by any of the aforementioned parties. Perhaps the Republicans or Democrats hung it on Anderson, hoping it would take on the connotations of a derogatory word implying uncertain or inconsistent, much 
the way "appeasement" · was transformed into the 
"What's in a label?", as foulest of obscenities (a­Bill Shakespeare, a PR mong politicians) in the man for Nestle's, once post-WW II years. said in response to our "Centrist" has not yet boycott. become a curse word, Ah yes, labels. WhoI though it's still early in ever decided that one set the campaign. Yet, we of views should be called believe Anderson is "conservative" and one somewhat fond of the $et be called "liberal"? term, for it accurately Why, as well, do so many expresses the intents and people then vote un­purposes ofhis candidacy endingly with every one in less stiff adjectives than of those views? Who the "National Unity knows what "moderate" Campaign" under which means? he is currently running. 
The reason is obvious: there are many people who dislike both Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan. Reagan turns many offsimply by virtue of his history as a hard-line Republican right-winger, and Carter, perhaps no longer classifiable by standard political terms, has managed to alienate everyone on some issu~ at one time or another during his term. Anderson knows this, and his aim has been simply to avoidgetting too close to either side, which in some cases has meant moderating his position on an issue. 
There is a reason why John Anderson was a Republican. At one time, his congressional rating by the conservative Americans for Constitutional Action (ACA) was a very respectable 67, with 100 being the best and 0 (in terms of conservative views) the worst voting record. In terms ofservice to the 16th District of Illinois, he voted fairly consistently pro-business and heavily pro-nuclear. 
Straight down the line. 

Design Editor: Steve Swonk Design Assistants: Deirdre Murphy, Anne Fultz Night Technicians:Deirdre Murphy, Rich Fisher 
News  Editor  john  Me  
Grath  
Day  Editor  Ryan  Ver  
Berkmoes  

Photographer: Beth Prezio 
The Ob11rv1r (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tltl Ob11rver is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing ne 0baerver. P. 0. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Till Ob11rver Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Tom jackman 
Anderson's views did not change overnight, though. In later years, his congressional voting record moved more toward the left (hurting his ACA rating), so much so that National Review, the journalistic vanguard of the right, labeled him "liberalJohnAnderson" ina 1977 issue. However, Editor William F. Buckley's view of"liberal" may differ somewhat from yours and ours. 
Perhaps it was that move toward the left which brought Anderson to where he is now, the center. And it could well be exactly where he wants to be. He doesn't want nuclear power plants banned, but he's not in favor ofdamning the torpedoes either. He wants to unleash business, but he wants to reform government too. The controversial "50-50 Plan" wouldn't do that. 
The watchdog press, witnessing this gradual slide away from the right, could then have hung the label "centrist" upon Anderson. But 
"Conservative" has negative con~otations, meaning old-fashioned, out-moded, stubborn. "Liberal" is much cooler, implying hip and open­minded. For now, the terms serve a purpose, but they should probably be renovated or replaced as times, and attitudes, change. 
One more question, please. What if someone doesn't vote straight down the line on one set of views-maybe he/she likes two from Column A and three from Column B. It could just be that John Anderson fits that description, and the media decided upon "centrist," for lack ofanything more creative. Yet the term captures the essence of the candidate more accurately in one word than, say, "liberal" when applied to Jimmy Carter, or "conservative" to Gerald Ford. Ronald Reagan, for now at least, still qualifies strongly for the accepted definition of "conservative." 
...Gunmen 
(continued from page four) they're always at the bars. Mayor Parent's got his pri­rities screwed up. It's unsafe to live in this area, but 500 feet away (at Corby's) there're pro­bably five cops right now look­ing to bust some kids in the chops....I'm not knocking the police tonight, they were \"ery nice and they got here really fast ... probably because they ere over at the bars.·· 
Valencia and Hoev were able to give only sketchy descrip­ions to the police of the four assailants, who were wearing stocking masks, bv<: they did suggest a search for the car which was involved in the afternoon altercation. 
Needed Immediately : ADVERTISINGDIRECfOR FORTHENAZZ For more information pleasecontact GeorgeWilmesat4763or 8237 


Friday night, Sept. 5 -''The Garcia-Marcello Band' 1 9:30-? Saturday night, &pt. 6-&"y Stevens·-9: 00 Mike Dal;· -·1 l) '30 
DON'T MISS IT!! 
(The Nazz is locatedin the basement ofLAFORTUNE)_ 

The Observer 
Here's a piano just begging to be played--Where 's Elton [photo by Beth Prezio] 
friends were planning a cross­country bike trip, and Kirtner viewed the excursion as an ideal



Freshman foreign 
opportur..ity to voice his sup­port for Anderson. Two months ago, Kirtner and friends boarded a plane in Vir­

studentdisappears 
ginia and flew to Oregon. He 
By john M. McGrath News Editor 
A Notre Dame freshman for­eign student has been reported missing to local law enforcement officials. Richard Conklin, direc­tor of Information Services tol(l The Observer last night that tht: student, George Wobil, a native of Ghana, has not been seen since he reportedly left campus to go shopping at approximately 9 a.m. Tuesday morning. 
Conklin described W obil as black, 21 years old, six feet tall, and about 145 pounds in weight. He is a resident of 136 Pangborn Hall. 
"We've reported him missing to both the city and county police departments," Conklin said. "We've also notified the television and radio stations, and we're hopeful that someone will contact us soon who might have seen George." 
"He knows the language well," Conklin said of Wobil's English speaking ability. "but some of the circumstances surrounding his entering this country tend to indicate that he can be easily confused." explained that his parents in-
Conklin noted that Wobil may itially did not understand his still be undergoing somewhat of idea. Visions of murder by mot­a "culture shock" since entering orcycle gangs loomed­the mainstream of American in their minds. Eventually, society after leaving his native however, they reluctantly ac-
country. cepted their son's sojourn. 
According to Conklin, l~d "When I waved goodbye Kelly, assistant Notre Dame from the plane, they pretty track coach, has befriended much had to accept it," Kirtner W obil, a member of the track said. 
team. .bven Kelly could only As part of his plan to drum up wonder about Wobil's where-support for Anderson, Kirtner abouts, however. decided to grant interviews­
"We can only surmise what detailing his escapade-to happened," Conklin said. "but newspapers and television sta­we're pretty sure that he was tions nationwide. Virtually ev­going shopping, and some of his ery city he has travelled to has friends had told him that heard his story. Now that press Scottsdale Mall was a good place cli~pings are rapidly filling his to go, so there's a possibility that Vir~inian _residence, he says he he may have gone there." beheves hts parents now under-
When he disappeared, Wobil stand his intial aim. was probably wearing black Similar to a young Heming­sneakers with yellow trim, long way in Paris or a Thoreau at pants, and at-shirt, Conklin said. Walden Pond, Kirtner kept a 
"We really don't have any idea detailed journal complete with where he is," Conklinadmitted." names and addresses of all­but we're pretty confident that whom he encountered during 
there is no wrong doing involved ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
in his disappearance." 
Anyone who has information about Wobil has been asked to 

OPENING! THISWEEKENDI 
call Notre Dame Security. 


ATTHENAZZ! 
Thursday, September 4, 1980-page3 


Cyclist rides for Anderson 
by Mary Fran Callahan Senior Staff Reporter 

Though he had not ridden a bicycle for ten years and never voted before, 26-year-old Vir­ginia native Edwin Kirtner bought a ten-speed lastsummer and proceeded to pedal cross­country as a demonstration of support for presidential con­tender John Anderson. 
Looking lean, healthy and slightly sunburned on the South Bend stop of his thus-far eight-week journey, Kirtner explained his motivation for the excursion, which will con­tinue until the first week of November. 
"I was politically apathetic, but then I started following the the polls and primaries," he commented. 
Disenchantment, he said, re­sulted as he read more of Pres­ident Carter and Republican challenger Ronald Reagan. An­derson was the man with the answers, the Virginia Tech 
-1graduate, who holds a degree in Engineering, thought. The bicycle does not require as complex an explanation as the political philosophy. Sever­al of Kirtner's hometown 
his trip. His srnall blue book is filled with pages of writing; his national maps have frayed ed­
ges, apparently fromlted.  
apparently from being  con­ 
sulted.  
"There  is  a  national  bike  

route which goes cross-count­ry," Kirtner explained, "but I didn't take it." 
His friends left him in Ne­braska, for they had to be back in Virginia by September. So from Nebraska onward, Kirtner was alone. 
He did not specifically plan to run into Anderson on the cam­paign trails, but, as coincidence would have it, Kirtner did man­age to meet the politician sev­eral times. 
At a $100 a plate dinner in Des Moines, Iowa, Kirtner met Anderson, introduced himself and told the presidential con­tender what he had been doing. And~rson was impressed and told his Des Moines audience of Kirtner's cross-country trek. He then had Kirtner, who at the time was wearing a "Virginians for Anderson" T-shirt, stand at the formal dinner in order to be recognized. 
• 

800 PM NOTRE DAME A.C C T1ckets $8 ..50 and $7.50 
'.t •I 1-i< 1-t--,, 1-~ • ' 't'o• '/11.11 tW.MI<''"-"' , ' '·'''-,,.,,.,.~.,..,,t,O,. 1•1< 'l~'•• •0//.t,h../.l,o oo1 '.II t.1-1of'ol,i~ff<o~A ... 1t, 1 ,,.,_,. I·,,, ,oo'II .... A•,ttot•t• tlo.,lot• "''11'1 •"l''~t-, •III<.. Aio~lll)lo<.!11Aio·J,t 0 , ,.,.. 1 , 11 ol'!•f"'~~ ..l t!W'•''"•'·j,.o-t~~~ 't •:,_. •,,.,,.,_.,, tt 111-r..l -><~t• -~t¥• , ,., ,.. •'"'<'·'''·"'•;..1,, , 
Kirtner believes Anderson is "by far the most qualified can: didate" to move into the Oval Office. Citing Anderson's pol­itical policies and federal ex­perience, Kirtner expressed his enthusiasm for the candidate. 
"Seventy-one percent of the 
American people want  to  see  
him  debate  the  other  candi­ 
dates," he commented.  

While Kirtner has been ob­taining valuable press coverage for Anderson, he also has learn­ed much about himself. Twenty p'ounds lighter, he now know-s what a person can do ifhis or her mind is fixed on accomplishing something. 
''I'd never done anything physically demanding before," Kirtner commented, after ex­plaining that he must ride at least 60 miles a day (an eight hour period) in order to get back to Virginia in time to vote in the November election. 
He also saw the country from an interesting angle. Accepting the hospitality of Anderson­supporters and private families 
(continued on page 5) 
.THE MOTELS 

THURSDAY SEPTfMBfA 11, 1980 

The Observer Thursday, September 4, 1980 -page4 
STUDENTS 
interestedin beingonthe 
Traffic Appeals Board 
please submityourname to the student governmentsecretaryby Frida_r, SepL5. 


... Anderson 
(continued from age 2) 

And again we see the media. Or maybe we don't. Where are they whenJohn Anderson needs them? Arguably, they catapulted Anderson to a place he would not otherwise be right now. Now, his once attractive ratings in the overly influential "polls" have dropped below acceptable levels, and he is struggling to make news in the early fall (some­thing Reagan is not having trouble doing), making occasional, perhaps foreseeable, moves to pick up dissatisfied political factions. He signed up a GOP "moderate," female at that, to help appeal to dissatisfied Republicans, and then named a die­hard Kennedy backer for his running mate, in hopes of infecting the slowly healing wound left from the Carter-Kennedy skirmish. 
Still, Anderson continues to fall from the nation's consciousness, and he may not be allowed to participate in this year's presidential debates. If he is not allowed there, Anderson aides are very skeptical about his chances. The all-important media visibility could vanish, and the already scarce money flow may well dry up completely. 
This is not to condemnJohn Anderson though. He advocates many good ideas which need to be heard and attempted. The 50-.50 Plan, as Anderson has explained it in detail, could not hurt, and conceivably could help this country. We have not yet heard a convincing, complete argument 
against it What will probably happen is that 

California will adopt it first, and other states will 
slowly follow. Butit is too new, too severe for all of 
America to swallow. · 
'· If he had been wise, Anderson never wuld have 
mentioned the 50-50, but instead just promised 
increased conservation measures and drastic 
administrative moves once elected. enacting 50­
50, not nearly so difficult in an off-election year, 
would deliver on both ofthose promises. Franklin 
Roosevelt never mentioned anything about a 
"New Deal" in his campaign-he actually 
promised a balanced budget at one time-but he 
did claim to be able to end the Depression. He 
came through on that one. 
But when Anderson's campaign began, he had 
to do something, anything, to get our attention, 
and the 50-50 Plan helped accomplish that. Now, 
in the spotlight, he has become a little less 
outspoken, controversial if you will, and that · worked for a while. Now the spot is drifting away, · aQ.d John Anderson's campaign, now headed by specialist David Garth, is desperately fighting to regain that spotlight. Fighting to makeAnderson a viable choice in the ballotbox by November 4, to · provide a haven for those who simply cannot vote for Reagan or Carter, but wish to have a voice. It's an uphill battle from here. 
In the coming weeks, this column wz1l dealprimarily with politics, both localandnational. We wish notto bepeggedas "conservative" or "Iibera~ " but instead hope to Pfesent a pragmaticpointofview on importantissues ofthe day. Any comments or criticisms are welcome. 
. . . Gunmen 
(continued from page 1) avoid the maze of stop lights in outside, was asked in an ob­incident.· the nearby Five Points area, scene manner to move her car. 
Jim Reynolds, a neighbor and 
according to a neighbor. While While she was doing so, 
ND student, noted that "it's Valencia's girlfriend was Valencia responded with an probably not neighborhood re­
visiting him yesterday after­
unprintable remark regarding lated. The neighbors are pretty noon, her car was parked in that the obscenities, to three or four 1cool about everything around alley. young males. Valencia and here." As the woman was preparing Hoey believe that the same Hoey and Valencia were re­to leave, she heard a car horn males returned later last night markably composed followinghonking, and when she went for some kind of revenge. They · the attack, even though both point out that the man with the were slightly bruised and a rifle asked for "your partner" 
blood stain remained on the when talking to Hoey, thereby ·carpet from where Valencia lay. knowing that Hoey was not Hoey was somewhat bitter alone and that he wanted one 
that police protection was not specific person who lived there. better. "I'd like to see them 
Four police cruisers respon­patrolling the neighborhoods ded to Hoey's call, but no more, and not the bars-officers would comment on the 
(continued on page 2) 

John O'Hanlon-Ciass of 1965-Sponsor, NO Volleyball 





0' anion's 
WAREHOUSE UQUORS 
WSND Staff members prepare for the exciting new radio season. (photo by Beth Prezio) 
The Observer Thursday' ~tember 4, 19.80 -p&82~ Sing the blues 

Vegetable Buddies closes 

The ND Student Union 
by Kathy Corcoran purses-money that area res­Panelli claimed that out of idents would normally be spen­6,000 pieces of published music Vegetable Buddies, South ding on this type of entertain­per week, five make the charts, 
and 

Bend's unique live entertain­ment. Panelli. said that since last and that an "oligarchy of record ent night club, closed its doors to January he was forced to take a companiesand booking agencies the public yesterday. According second job in an Elkhart factory provides the American public 

Midwest Events 
to Andrew Panelli, owner and in an attempt to keep Vegetable with formula hits," making it manager, the club's demise was Buddies above water during this difficult for small agents like due to struggles with downtown stormy period. himself to book acts. 
presentsconstruction and an overall He originally hoped to hold He added that with the ex­economic recession which hit out until the completion of the ception of WAOR-Nils, loca\, the country last January. construction, anticipating that radio stations would not break 
Vegetable Buddies, located at the new hotel would bring a from their "formula hits" in 129 North Michigan, stands di­greater influx of business. But order to give promotional air­rectly opposite the future site of depletion of parking space and play to Vegetable Buddies' acts. 

BILL COSBY
a Marriott Hotel and bank com­funds terminated his plans. No Vegetable Buddies means plex. Panelli claims that his es­Vegetable Buddies opened on no local place for cultivating the 
in the round at the N D ACC
tablishment was treated unfairly March 15, 1976with the purpose music Panelli p_romotes and in that the urban renewal project of bringing good music, both loves. But he says he has not eliminated Vegetable Buddies' local and national talent, to the given up. He is currentlyparking space, and Panelli's South Bend area. Inside the club, working with Fr. Mario Pedi, attempts to remedy the situation barnsiding and tree stump tables Vector of St. Ed's, on a possible 
FRIDAY SEPT 5
were only met with "false pro­provided an earthy decor. The Notre Dame spot where blues, mises from city officials." atmosphere was conducive to rock and jazz groups can per-•-··············································•·················· The recession, he added, put dancing and general merry­form. Also, if he can raise the the clamp on the night club's aking. proper revenue in two weeks, 
LENTY OF GOOD SEATS 
funds, as well as individual The club specialized in blue­Vegetable Buddies will be able to grass. jazz, rock, country swing, reopen. 
STILL AVAILABLE 
and, most importantly, Chicago But chances of this are slim, blues acts. Panelli, a Notre Dame Panelli said, and it is "now or graduate, said he patterned his never" for South Bend as far as
...Biker 

Tickets:$7.50 and $8.50·
night club after top metropolitan he is concerned. If Vegetable 
clubs, such as The Roxy in Los Buddies does not reopen, he
[continued from page 3] 
Angeles and The Bottom Line plans to take his club elsewhere, 
at the STUDENT UNION
who opened their homes to-and The Lone Star Cafe in New most likely to a larger city, where him, Kirtner met people from York City. In the past four years, he claimed there exists a definite virtually every region in the bigname groups like theE Street market for a Vegetable Buddies 
.BOX OFFICE 
country. If he had no place to Band, Commander Cody, Asleep type format. 


stay, he would camp in a tent at the Wheel, Canned Heat, and 
and eat on the road. Steppenwolf have appeared at Inclement weather was never Vegetable Buddies, as well as a major problem; it simply local favorites Duke Tumatoe slowed his pace sometimes. and Vanessa Davis. When asked what he did if it Other than TheMidwest Blues rained, he answered, "Got Festival, produced here on the wet." Notre Dame campus, Vegetable The cyclist's arrival in South Buddies was the only area es­Bend is timely, for Sunday, an tablishment offering Chicago Anderson headquarters is open­blues acts, with Muddy Waters ing in downtown South Bend. and Son Seals heading a list of Only in South Bend for a matter distinguished appearances. The of hours, Kirtner will not be Midwest Blues Festival too has able to attend the opening. He gone under, leaving no place for was off to Kalamazoo, Mich., local blues appearances at this yesterday morning, and plans to time. journey to Maine and then-Panelli admitted that he is in a down the eastern seaboard en risky business, because the club's route home. format brings in very little profit, An interesting book could be ifany. He said, however, that the written from Kirtner's journal, types of music he sponsors­but at present, the cyclist has no blues, jazz, bluegrass ­are such plans. strictly American phenomena, "I don't have the ability or the and must have places of cui~ talent to do it. I would need a tivation and expression or else -ghostwriter," he explained. they will die out. This was th~ fie said the journal was kept purpose of Vegetable Buddies, for his personal records ofa trip but Panelli said he has always had he will want to remember a difficulty finding support for his lifetime. cultural concerns in the South Come November, the cyclist Bend area. plans to use his engineering Panelli himself played bass in a degree to obtain employment band at one time, and refers to and pay offsome debts which he himself as a "frustrated has accumulated. musician" who now prefers to And as for cycling from west promote good music and pro­to east again? vide an alternative to the "trite "I really don't know if I will airplay of local radio stations." do it again," he commented, He attacked the corruption in "but it really is an excellent mode today's music industry with the of travel. term "tyranny of the majority." HELP WANTED NOBLE ROmANS PIZZA Gtanget Store only ( QCIOII ftom Unlvetalq, Patk malf ) 8oth young men and women Patt time pizza maketa . Patt time waltteaaea (must be 21 !1~1, old) CaiiKathg -Clt277-5300  from the German Cinema... A SERIESOFREPRESENTATIVE FILMS 1HURSDAYS AT 7:30PM 13 FILMS FOR $10.000R $l.OOGENERAL CABINETOFDR.CALIGRI September4 Washington Hall NOSFERATU.ASYMPHONYOFHORROR September 11 tibrary Auditorium METROPOLIS September 18 Engineering Auditorium M September 25 Washington Hall THE BLUE ANGEL October 2Washington Hall TR.Il:JMPHOFTHEWILL October9 Washington Hall OLYMPIA October 16 Washington Hall HITLERJUNGEQUEX October 30 Washington Hall­-.NOT RECONCILED November 6 Library Auditorium YOUNGTORLESS November 13 Library Auditorium MARRIAGE OF MARIA BRAUN November 20 Library---. Atlrli.torium AGUIRRE, WRATH OF GOD December 4Library Auditorium THE LEFT-HANDED WOMAN December 11 Washington Hall ,. -- 

..
_ 

--~-----­
0 0 0 0 a 0 D 0 a a a 
Thursday, September 4, 1980 -page6 







0 
Team founder john Pautz 

· The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Gy four years ago by John Paulik. In great ga1ns. The team has begun 1 Midwest in competitions against s Michigan, Western Michigan, ValJ Purdue. 
Two years ago, the team hired i1 equipment with its own funds. The team is made up of beginn experienced gymnasts eager to cc 
Practices are from 4 to 6 p.m. ev' and Wednesdays they are held at S on the third floor of N otr,e Dame Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays. 

photo~ by ct 




a a 0 a
• • • a • • • • • 0 a • • • a • ,, . . . . .• . . .•
• 

Thursday, Septerr..ber 4, 1980 -page7 
zn an Iron Cross. 
Sara McGrath on the balance beam. Above, tn a handstand; below, in a stag position. 





JOint 
I 
nlJ.astics team was started our years they have made J establish itself in the tch teams as Central araiso, Miami of Ohio, and 
;own coach and purchased 
rs wishing to learn, and npete. ry weeknight. On Mondays 
Mary's Angela Center, and s Rockne Memorial on 
-Brian McLaughlin 









The Observer 1 nursday, September 4, 1980-page 8 
GM announces failure ofJapanese tn.otor deals 
Carefree students Ryan Ver Berkmoes andjohn McGrath lounge away an afternoon at the St. Joe Lake Beach. Their biggest worry: fish that bite. fphoto hy Beth Prezio]. 
By Associated Press 
TOKYO-General Motors Corp., the world's largest aut­omaker, says four Japanese auto companies turned dowt) a request to supply truck diesel engines. 
Toyota Motor Co., Nissan Motor Co., Mitsubishi Motors Corp. and Isuzu Motors Ltd. all were asked inJuly if they could fill an order for 100,000 engines over a four-year period begin­ning in 1982, Henry V. Leonard 
Jr., GM's Tokyo representative, said today. 
"It's a perfectly normal type of inquiry, there's nothing un­usual about it," Leonard said. 
.._....,.-.... "In the past we have often supplied our competitors with spare parts." Isuzu, which is 34 percent 
HPProfessionalCalculators. Because the mostcriticaltime ~your professionalcareer 

JSn tnow. 
Ask any professional about Hewlett­Packard calculators. You'11 discover they're the ones dedicated to solving your problems. In the world of calculators Hewlett-Packard means outstanding per­formance: the most advanced functions and programming features to save you time and increase accuracy; the most advanced design to give you greater ease-of-use; rigid quality control for flawless perform­ance year after year; the most comprehen­sive and easy-to-read documentation; the most extensive selection of software solu­tions so you can spend your time solving problems instead of writing programs; and Continuous Memory in programmable models so you can retain your programs and data, even when the calculator has been turned off. 
Hewlett-Packard features six different calculators starting at just $70;«' to pro­vide professional solutions to problems in science, engineering and business through­out your academic and professional career. 
HP-32E Scientific with Statistics HP-33C Programmable Scientific with Continuous Memory HP-34C Advanced Programmable Scientific with 
Continuous Memory HP-37E Business HP-38C Advanced Financial Programmable with 
Continuous Memory HP-41C Alphanumeric Full Performance with Continuous Memory 
So visit a Hewlett-Packard dealer now. Then make the professional decision: buy an HP. For details and the address of your nearest dealer, CALL TOLL-FREE 800-547-3400, Department 6 58M, except from Hawaii or Alaska. In Oregon, call 758-1010. Or write: Hewlett-Packard, 1000 N.E. Circle Blvd., Corvallis, OR 97330, Dept. 658M. 
•Suggested retail price excluding applicable state and 
local taxes-Continental U.S.A., Alaska and Hawaii. 610/08 
HEWLETT 
PACKARD 
owned by GM, is scheduled to 
supply small diesel engines for 
GM's U.S.-built subcompact 
cars in the 1981 model year. GM 
itselfis a major manufacturer of 
diesel engines in the United 
States, but its spare capacity is 
all in the heavy-duty sizes and it 
could be short of the smaller 
sizes in the future. 
A spokesman for Nissan who asked not to be identified said "to be frank we've received such inquiries in the past -_but we have doubts about their seriousness. The Americans al­ways back off." 

A spokesman for Toyota, Japan's No. 1 automaker and the world's third largest, also said his company was not in­terested in GM's ofer and that Toyota did not have the cap­acity anyway. 


Slavery 
infests 


Thailand 
BANGKOK, Thailand(AP)­Almost every morning at 4:15, dozens ofchildren get offa train at Bangkok's darkened railroad station, clutching the hands of their parents who have brought them here to sell them into slavery. 

The parents, frightened like their children, come from poor farming areas in northeastern i Thailand where the $100 they will receive for the children is a fortune. They have been told, and they tell their children, that their Bangkok employers will give them ice cream and take them to the zoo on Sundays. 
Instead, the children find themselves working long hours month after month, without pay, under the absolute control of their employers. Abuse by employers is common. Wounds are treated with soap, herbal ointment, fish sauce and tooth­paste. A day off on Sunday means a short stroll under the watchful eyes of owners. 
Police said a 12-year-old girl who ran away from-her employ­er told how the thread factory owners would kick or beat her and 13 other girls with sticks if they thought the girls were not working hard enough. 
This girl said she and the other girls worked in a hot, dark room, standing up 10 hours a 

day,  six  days  a  week, police  
reported.They  said  she  told  
them she had  never  been al­ 

lowed beyond the end of the 
alley behind the factory where 
she worked. 
The U.N. Working Group on Slavery was told by a British social worker last month that thousands of Thai children are sold each year to the profes­sionally operated market that supplies factories1 brothels and massage parlors in Thailand with slave children. 
The social worker's report claimed that as many as 500 • children are sold each week in Bangkok's Hua Lampong rail­road station between Novem­ber and April, the dry season when the children are not need­ed on the f3;rm~. 
• 

The Observer Thursday, September4, 1980-page 9 
Campus 
9:00 a.m. -meeting, alumni board of directors, center for continuing ed­ucation. 
7, 9:15, and 11:30 p.m.­film, "and justice for all", engineering aud. 
7:30 p.m. -art opening

~· 
..... 
presentation, douglas tyler, smc, 232 moreau hall. 
8:15. p.m.-meeting, ad­visory coundl, center for continuing education .. 


Moreau 
Molarity. Michael Molinelli 
n-IERE. NOLJ ALL WE. HAVE' TO lXJ 15 WAJ T FOR THEH To FIN!~ "THAT NEW GIRL~ l>DRH 









toshow holography 
The Moreau Art Gallery at 

· Saint Mary's will begin its 1980­81 season with an exhibit of holographic work by Doug Tyler. The exhibit opens today with a reception in Moreau's Little Theatre Gallery from 7-9 
p.m. Tyler will give a shol't talk on holograhy at 7:30 p.m. in room 232, Moreau Hall. 
"Holograhy," according to Tyler, "is a relatively new pro­cess in which three-dimensional images are recorded on film through the use of a laser beam." Tyler has been explor­ing the image-making possibil­ities of the medium for almost two years and has concentrated on creating abstracted forms. 
Tyler, who is an assistant pro­fessor of art at SMC, has at­tended classes and workshops in holography at Lake Forest College and the School of Ho­lography in Chicago. He has. also conducted holography workshops at Western Michi­gan University and Kendall School of Design in Grand Ra­pids. He holds a master's degree in Fine Arts from Cranbrook Academy of Art and has been a member of the SMC faculty since 1977. 
The holography exhibit will be on display until September 28 and is open to the public free of charge. Gallery hours are 9­11 a.m. and 12: 30-3:00 p.m., Tuesday-Friday. Saturday and Sunday hours are 12:30-4:00 
p.m. The gallery is closed on Monday. 
Young Detnocrats 
tom,eet 
.. 

The Young Democrats will hold their first general meeting tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the La­Fortune ballroom. Plans for the Brademas re-election campaign will be discussed. 
Social Concerns Films 
The Social Concerns Film Series will be held Sept. 
8 through the 19th. Watch for films and times of showing. Anyone planning to attend who can offer assistance, please call Theresa Brown at 79,58. 


Peanuts ® 


The Daily Crossword 
All Rights Reserved 


Charles Schulz 
BECAUSE WE'RE NO GOOD•.. BECAUSE WE'RE NO GOOD••• BECAU$E WE'RE NO 6000! 


ACROSS  29 Hope  50 Slangy  23 Roadside  
1 Metropolis  32 Actor Nick  turndown  stop  
5 Beatltl  33 Yule stamp  53 Avoid  24 Irene's  
10 Sawbill  34 Ms Daniels  56 Eheu!  domain  
duck  35 Avoiding  57 Atelier  25 Map feature  
14 Land unit  38 And others:  adjunct  26 Catchword  
15 Move upward  abbr.  58 Hep  27 Drapery  
16 Baseball  39 Aviary unit  59 Cysts  feature  
team  40 Thousandth: 60 Fine china  28 Cracksmen  
17 Avoid  pref.  61 Votes  29 Comedian  
20 Ethnic  41 Youngster  against  Milton  
ending  42 Implores  30 Agora money  
21 Flexible  43 Supplicate  DOWN  31 Suit  
shoot  44 Crossword  1 Bakery  33 Oiftlcul·  
22 Outcry  Items, for  offering  ties  
23 Gloom  short  2 Chills  34 Uses a  
24 Silvers or  45 Mardi ­ 3 lpll or  come-on  
Harris  46 Well-thrown  upas  36 Arctic  
25 Levy  pass  4 Slangy  sights  
28 Votes In '  49 Buck  assent  37 Build a  
favor  heroine  5 Swlftlan  levee  
device  42 Comedian  

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 6 Weirdo Orson 

7 Transit. 43 Source of customer wisdom 8 "Do -say, 44 Attire not. .. " 45 Used epoxy 
9 Where the 46 Maestro chow-line Artie forms 47 Bloodless 
10 Traffic 48 A Karamazov 
tie-up 49 About 11 Short skirt 50 Ms Foch 12 Noun ending 51 Dlst.­13 Calendar 52 "-on 
unit first?" 18 Maltreater 54 Light 19 Neanw touch 
thing 55 Got the nod 

The Observer Thursday, September 4, 1980 ~page 10 

• J 

.. 
-' ,.. •" --~.:. :~.:~ ;:~,~-~ 
.... "' 
... 
Tm:nto 4, Texa; 2 Todily's Gam!s Oiict<Yld (Keough 13-12) ct ~lrrore (A~ 13-10), ~). ~le (lbleyaJtt 8-15) ct Ebsta1 (~ 9-100, (n). <hi~ (Hoyt 6-2) ct Toronto (TOOcl 2-1), {n). 
California (TCila'la 7-9) ~ York (Rny 8-10). (n). .. Milv.rule! (T~ 12-6) ct Ka1sas 
City (Qxa 18-5), (n). 
Transu.ctions 
8ASfBAU.. CINCINNATI RED5-Walwd ~ romln, pitcher, fa-1he plJ'pOSe of grcl'lting his lnXli'Kitlooal release. BASKETBALL 
II'OANA PACERS-Sigled ~dl &en­ning <Yld Jeny Sldlting, gucrcls, iYld l.aRJe Miltln, center. 
A-iOENIX Sl..JNS---.Arrom 1he re­siglc:tim of [bug True, bv.Erd. WG\\efS BASKETBALL 
CHICAOO HUSll..E--,6ar..lired Kim Hensen, center, from the SiYt FrcndSCD Aoneers for a 1981 third-I'OlJ'ld daft pick. 
FOOTBALL 
BUFFALD Blll.S--AOO!d .Jc:h1 Schrre­dlng, otrensiw gucrd, on the injtJ"ed ~ list. Wawd Mile Klrtrr&l <Yld Qmy Fultm, Wc:te remi\e'3. Waved Calraf ~' gucrd end Greg Ccter, pmfer, then re-siO'lE!d them Arn.u1cec:l thct W<IE IIAnllng, kick retuner-ar ~ taled his physda Cl1d tary Caier, defenslw tm, left carp. GeM! OJJe FEI"QE!!'Dl, VIAde receiwr, a one-day fr)out. 
GREEN BAY PACK~Ired ~ch Drrler, nose taide, iYld Kirby OiSY.ell, defenslw end-lll'leb1Dcl!r. Wav­ed Wal1er Tullis, VIAde recelwr &b Biltler, defenslw end; Teny .bles, defensi'A! ta::idei Ricky Skiles, lll'lE!bada-; .Jcius Wllte, safety. ~OO!d ~dl Wingo, lil'lE!bcde-r.a.e Wllim\nf Cl1d Mil'k Miler, ~; Jlla't( l<a1c:cr, of­felslw tcdde; iYld &fc T~!D'l, IUl­ning bcrl<. on 1he lniln:!d ~ list. 
MII'H:SOTA Vlk.I~Signed ll:iug 
Mnin, defensiw ta::ide; Wes Hcnittm, Dnlis Sv.411ev <Yld Jim Hough, offeilslw linerrm; Stu 'kigt, tl~ end; md ~ ~ler Clld Jares Whfte, defenslw llne­
•ren to a series of one-}4ea'" oorrlraJs. 
NEW ENGl..A~ PA TRIOI!)-~ Bill Cmier, defensi'A! back. Aace Alia'! 0<11<. n.ming tm, on the injtnd 
~list. 
HOCKEY HARTFORD WHAL..ERS-Signed Tom Colley, CEnter. 
PITrSBURGH PeGJINS-I~tlired 
Mle Cariga'l, as asslstcnt mad\. SOCCER 
BUFFALO STALL.IONS-Signed ~ 
&colii, forvwrd. 


Field Hockey 
1980 RBD HOCKEY SCHEDlU 
~-6 ALBION 1J ct lnc:la'la 19 FRA.NKUN 
22 t<..ALANAZOO 
26 LAKE FOREST 
'19 a Olio w~ 
~.1 ctTCf,'kr" 4 ct cePaJW Oassic 
6 
ct Kala 'azoo 
9 OOSH~ 
10 ST. MARY"S 
13 VALPARASIO 
17 ~ 
20 ct lndala State 
21 ct MBU'i-St. Ululs 
22 ct St. U:lUs 
23 ct Southern lllinois­
~lle 
~ =~ 
~ ct lAIAW TounaTI!I'1t 

I'OTE: George &ett CDntlnues1o lead the .rrap-lecgues VIAth a .402 bating average 'lillie the Ca'dlnal trio of Tet'll)letcn, 
Among the parade of 'Big Names' to visit the Irish practice fields yesterday were Fr.
Henctick m Hemcndez in! ~lng 
joyce, Moose Krause, Lefty Smith, AI Wester, Lou Boda and Fr. Riehle. [photo by Helen 
.323, .322 iYld .320 respedlwly. 
Odar]. 


These tw-oTI calculators can help you handle courses in math, in science, or business. Now, and in the real ~orld. 
One real-world lesson you'll learn in , ness functions. school is th_e importance of productiv­Pre-progra_m­ity. Time you spend doing the math med with busi­part of the problem is time you can't ness functions spend learning concepts. for time-value 

A Texas Instruments professional of money, statis­calculator will help make your study tics, profit mar­time more productive. And it can also gin. And other 
help you move into the world of a pro­problems 
you'll encounter in fessional. A world where knowing the business school. Other capabilities in­concept is only part of the solution. clude percent, squares, Bringing out the answer requires a powers. 
·working knowledge of a powerful Money Management"(a $4.95 value), has step-by-step instructions plus sample problems. It's an extra value 
*'frademark of Thxas Instruments With every BA-l. Incorporated. 
~ 
• 

Texas lnstroments technology-bn"ngi'n6 affordable electmni'cs to yourfingertips. 


TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
INCORPORATED 45731 

-
The Observer Thursday, September 4, 1980 -page 11 
~arFrosh





Sports Briefs __ 
-I 
1 
beat. Coil Glenn 4549

while they lost! 937 South Bend Avenue. PH. DON 1233 OR 289-3781 
I HAVE 2 PURDUE TIX . I will trode.lor two G.A. WELCOMES BACK All NEW AND OLD Just west of Corby's 233·2343. Open 11· 
Michigan tix. I also need 2 more Michigan MEMBERS COME AND SEE US AT ACTIVITIES
Need 2 or 3 Tix to Pwdue game for !Win
6. '69 buick skylark for sole. Runs like aroped GA"s Coli John. ~3485. 
NIGHT

brother from Purdue call Jim at 3647chicken. Must sell . jim 3881 
YOUNG DEMOCRATS ORGANIZATIONAL NORTON ANTHOLOGY OF ENGLISH LIT. 
Need Student ncket(s) -Purdue Coli Look out Pfister Joe's! I shall return for a
MEETING, THURS. SEPT 4, 6:30 P.M. OR VOL 1 CAll PAULA 287·6916 Desperately need 1 or 2 GA tix lor Purdue.
Barry at 2140 week-end of cultural chaos and domestic
can Martha 6751.

CALL MEG 7993 TO VOLUNTEER. WANTED: Used 10-Spe-ed-bik_e_i_n-goOd 
delirium. condition Coli Jell. 1383 MWF, 7·9 p.m; Help! 1need 1 Student Ticket ror Purdue Love and blenders,
Althy rich alumnus wishes GA Mich tix. CoilHELP WANTED. Game room attendant 
Tickets

TT, 4·6 p.m. SSS NO Problem Coli Pol at 8650. Bob ltle co-owner
277-6853 after 5 . 

wonted -evenings and weekends. Pri· . mary duties inclUde making change for 
INSTANT CASH PAID FOR CLASS RINGS. WANTED! 2 Michigan fix. Will pay a high Bob Johnson LIVES (in Aa and in the hearts
WANTED PURDUE tickets GENERAL
small coins -survey store for good and 
Men"s $35 -$85 and up. Free House Colis. NEED STUDENT OR G.A. PURDUE TICKETS. premium. Must know immediately. Coli rJ us all).
ADMISSION or STUDENT Coli TOM 1700
orderly behavior. E.E student preferred but 
255-2402 CAll TIM • 233·6276 collect. John or Shelly (714) 236·9933. 
not necessary. $3.1 (l per hour and free 

Thursday, September 4, 1980 -page 12



SRorts 
Conrey ready after long wait 
This is the fourth of a cannot be made without a close will be far from an easy task. five-part series analyzing each examination of Courey's pro­"Overall I think that Pur­of Notre Dame's five leading gress and ability. due's defense is very solid," quarterbacks. The order in Courey, who was labeled a Courey says. ''They like to which these features appear in running quarterback when he throw a lot of different looks at no way reflects the position graduated from Heelan High you up front, and they like to each occupies on the Irish depth School in Sioux City, Iowa, did blitz often when you're deep chart. not seem to fit the mold as a inside your own territory.'' 
typical Notre Dame quarter­A definite key to Notre by Mike Olenik back. Despite this stereotype, Dame's success against Purdue Sports Wn.ter Courey has adapted well to a will be the play of the offensive more diversified offense, show­line. Ample pass protection and 
A constant thought on Irish ing great improvement in the sizable holes are required for an quarterback Mike Courey's passmg segment of his game. effective offense, and, a<;:cord­mind has to be the desire to line "I've been described as an ing to Courey, these conditions up behind John Scully on option quarterback before I have been more than adequat­Saturday afternoon against the came to Notre Dame, but after ely fulfilled. Purdue Boilermakers. And, one three years of learning the ..Our offensive line has pro­can sense that Mike Courey is system and working with the gressed greatly since the begin­more than prepared for such an different quarterbacks that ning of fall ball, especially occurance. have been here, I think that I under the leadership of ] ohn 
After three years of practice have adjusted to the offense Scully," he explains. "Adjust­
and dedication; afterthreeyears that we run. I really think that I ing to the flex defense of of adjustment and learning; run our type of offense,'' Purdue was a little difficult at after three years of just plam Courey says. first, but I think they'll be waiting; Mike Courey knows he Although somewhat weaken­plenty ready for the game." is ready. Whether Dan Devine ed by graduation, Purdue's With quarterback speculation and the rest of his staff feel the defense could pose a serious running unchecked, it is of same way remains to be seen on challenge to almost any team. utmost importance that each Saturday, but that decision Courey feels that scoring points quarterback concentrates on 
the duties required of him on the field. Mike Courey has assuredly 
maintained such a level of

Borg rallies to down Tanner 
-~:.
concentration as he quietly prepares for what could be the most important opportunity of

in five sets at U.S. Open 
his career. 

victory for me," said-Borg.
NEW YORK (AP)-Bjorn 
Tomorrow: Scott Grooms 

Borg of Sweden kept his lirand "Roscoe was serving well and 
Slam dreams alive and foiled playing very well, and when it Roscoe Tanner's bid for a was 4-2 I remembered last repeat of last year's stunning year's match. But he started to Eo says 
upset by rallying in the final make some mistakes, I started 
two sets and {>Osting a 6-4, 3-6, to hit some good returns and 
4-6, 7-5, 6-3 victory yesterday in win the big points. 

1Moellergot the shaft' 
the quarterfinals of the U.S. The strongest part of my Open tennis championshps. game is that I usually do weli on 
Borg, the No. 1 seed, trailed the key points." After the 1979 football season, the University two sets to one and was down a And that's exactly what he ofIllinois fired its head coach, Gary Moeller. The service break in the fourth set did to survive against Tanner reason, of course, was simply that Moeller did before mounting his dramatic and stay alive in the Open, a not win enough football games.comeback and earning a berth tournament he never has won. It was not a pretty sight. Moeller's old boss,
Borg captured the Wimbledon
in the semifinals against the Michigan head coach Bo Schembechler, said 
winner of last night's match and French Open tides earlier publicly that Moeller got the shaft. l::ven thoughbetween Woktek Fibak of Pol­this year and needs the U.S. 

Bo and Gary are old buddies, that was kind of Dartmouth's successful coach, Bob Blackman.
and and Johan Kriek of Soud: and Australian "Opens to join strange. There is q. universal understanding that Blackman was canned in favor of Moeller afterAfrica. Don Budge and .k.od Laver as getting fired comes with the territory. And that if he discovered that the Big Ten isn't quite the Ivy "When I was 4-2," sair the onlymen towin tennis' Grad the coach. is a good one, somewhere, somehow League.
Borg, ''I though it would be: Slam. 
he will iand on his feet. Mike White came to Champaign and, ofvery difficult to win the match. · Fot the last three years, Borg But Schembechler spoke his piece. He said course, he promised a winn~r. On the double.
He was playing well and was all has entered this event with that Gary Moeller was a fine coach, and that he And he brought with him a flock of players whopumped up, and all the pres victories at Wimbledon and 
,, 

sure was on me. Paris behind him. But two years was building a strong team. And that it was a would make the Illini an instant winner. ago, he lost to Jimmy Connors shame that some other coach would be able to And where did Mike White get all of these
But Borg responded to the 

fl pressure sttuation by picking in the final here, and last year, come in and reap the benefits of Moeller's hard players? From junior colleges, of course. You 
tj his game up a notch. Tannet Tanner upset him in the quar­work. know, those are the places where people who had knocked Borg out of the terfinals. And Schembechler said something else. can't maintain the necessary 2.0 grade-point Open in a night quarterfinal In women-·s action, defending Something that was probably lost on the Un­average in high school go for two years. match a year ago, but it was not champion Tracy Austin advanc­iversity's Board of Regents. Schembechler said Among the players who followed White to 
a

ro happen agam. ed to the semifinals with that beyond being a good coach, Moeller was a Illinois was a quarterback by the name of Dave ''When he hits that big serve convincing 6-2, 6-3 victory over good man. 
Wilson. There was just one problem. Tht Bigand gets it in, there's not much teen-age rival Pam Shriver Schembechler's ringing endorsement didn't Ten faculty representatives ruled that Wilson you can do,'' Borg said of seeded 13th. hold much water with the people at Illinois. was ineligible for the 1980 season because he had 
Tanner, the left-bander whose Austin, 17 and seeded first, 
Neither did the feelings of many of the Illinois not accumulated enough credits to be a senior, 
serve has been clocked at 140 dominated the match with her players, who went public with their support of which the conference declared that he should be,mph. "But at 4-2 I had nothing precise passing shots and deli­Moeller. The bigwigs at Illinois wanted good seeing how he enrolled in college in the fall of to lose. I decided to take some care lobs. The 18-year-old Shri­football players, not good men. They wanted a 1977.
chance, and it paid off.'' . ver, a finalist here two years 
winner, and they wanted one in a hurry. This did not please the people at Illinois whoBorg rallied to win the next ago and now on the comeback So they traveled to the University ofCalifornia wanted a winner in a hurry. But these people are
three games, including a· ser­trail following a shoulder in­at Berkeley and hired one of the Bears' as­no fools. They're the same people who pop­vice break in the eighth, to jury, tried to play serve and sistants, Mike White. California is a member of ularized athletic slush funds in the 1960s. Theyclimb on top 5-4. I 'When I volley but did not do it well the Pacific-1 0 Conference, which over the sum­know that the Big Ten faculty representativesbroke him and went ahead," enou~h to threaten the steady mer became the Pacific-5 Conference when five are not omniscient, omnipotent and infinitelysaid Borg, I • I knew I had a Austm. 
. chance to win again." I I Pam started out a little of its schools were placed on conference proba­good. He made the most of it, tight," said Austin, who won tion for massive academic improprieties. So the people went out and found themselves ) closing out the fourth set with a the first four games of the Cal was not among the schools to have their a judge. A judge who was omniscient, omnipo­
r 
service break and getting all the match and has now beaten wrists slapped, but it did not escape unscathed. tent and infinitely good. But more importantly, 
advantage he needed with a Shriver all 11 times they've The Chicago Tribune disclosed that former star a judge who graduated from the University of break in the eighth game of the met-nine as juniors and twice running back Chuck Muncie never went to his Illinois. final set. That game went to as pros. I • She was missing classes. When contacted in training camp with Tuesday, Champaign County Circuit Judge deuce three times before Borg shots she normally makes. I just the New Orleans Saints, Muncie claimed that his Harry Clem ruled that Wilson is eligible to play. hit a fine service return and played my game, tried to keep diploma from California was hanging on a wall in Right now. It seems that Harry would have fit followed with a forehand pass­her deep and pass her when his home. Officials at the University said no, right in with the late Mayor Daley of Chicago.
ing shot down the line for a 5-3 she came to the next.'' Chuck Muncie never received a degree from Old Harry was just looking out for the ol' alma 
lead. Austin will face the winner of 
their school. mater. And himself, of course. After all, Illinois Moments later the 24-year-· yesterday's late match between But that did not faze the people at Illinois. is going to have a winner in a hurry. And when it 
old Swede held serve for the Chris Evert Lloyd and Mirna 'fhey found out several years earlier that ac­does, Harry will be sitting on the 50-yard lipe, 
VICtory. Jausdvec of Yugoslavia in the ademics and athletics don't mix when they hired cheering the Illini\on.
"This was a very important semifinals. 
~' 
,< 






