, , , Bookstore hoops -page 8 

VOL. XIV, No. 108 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saiht mary's TUESDAY MARCH 18, 1980 
N.D. honors O'Neill "With Laetare Medal 
Speaker of the House Tho­mas). (Tip) O'Neill Jr. has been named as the 1980 reci­pient of Notre Dame's Laetare Medal, the oldest honor ac­corded American Catholics. 
The 67-year-old Representa­tive from Massachusetts' Eighth Congressional District is one of several public servants honored with the medal in its 97 years of existence but the first to receive it while an active member of Congress. 
"Speaker O'Neill is a man whose lersonal integrity and practica wisdom have won the affection of his constituents and colleagues over more than four decades of public service," commented Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, University presi­dent. ''He has acted with un­common statesmanship, and, when the times called for it, with political courage as a mast~; of the legislative pro­cess. 
The grandson of an im­migrant bricklayer from County 

Thomas]. 0 'Netf Jr. 
Cork, Ireland, O'Neill was gra­duated from Boston College in 1936 and was elected on the Democratic ticket to the Mass­achusetts state legislature later that year. It was during his early years in state ~overnment that his lifelong tnteresr in quality education surfaced. In 1948, he became the youngest majority leader in the history of the state. 
When Congressman John F. Kennedy launched his senator­ial campaign in 1952, O'Neill ran successfully for his House seat. A protege of fellow Bostonian and Democratic House Whip ) ohn W. Mc­Cormack, the new congressman from Massachusetts received a quick introduction into the power structure of the House, includ­ing a second-term seat on the 
powerful Rules Committee. 
On the House floor, O'Neill has supported the liberal agenda of his party--housing redevelopment; mass transit; anti-poverty programs; the Civil Rights Acts of 1956, 1957, and 1964; Medicare; federal aid to education; consumer protec­tion and anti-pollution mea­sures. An original backer of President Johnson's military policy in Southeast Asia, he broke with the President in the late 1960s, supporting anti-war candidate Eugene v1cCarthy for president in 1968 and cocspon­soring legislation in 1971 sett­ing a date for American with­drawal from Vietnam, con­tingent upon release of Amer­ican prisoners of war. 
In 1972, he succeeded Hale Boggs, whose plane disappear­ed in a flight over Alaska, as majority leader of the House. He generally encouraged re­vision of the venerable seniority system and developed a reputa­tion for bridging the gap bet­ween the House old guard and change-oriented, younger con­gressmen. A careful cultivator of his Boston Irish and Italian constituency, O'Neill has never lost an election since entering the Massachusetts state le~isla­ture 44 years ago. "Poliucs," he once said, "is the art of effective compromise.'' 
flation adviser, to ctiticize the Carter program. ''It is weaker than I had hoped or expected," Proxmire
NDprofs address Carter's budget 
sat d. 
by Roberta Bottei 
Calling inflation ''a symptom of economic distress" and asserting that "the entire Ameri­can family must try even harder to live within its means,'' President Carter last Friday announced his program of "urgent measures" and "econo­mic discipline'' to fight inflation. 
In response, three Notre Dame professors explained and evaluated certain key points in Mr. Carter's {>ian -balancing the federal budget, controllmg -consumer credit, and impos­ing a tax on gasoline. They also explained the recent Federal Reserve Board action of allowing the prime interest rate to rise to 18.5 percent. 
Kenneth ) ameson, associate /rofessor of economics, described the intende effects and the international framework which helped the Fed to decide to let the prime interest rate go up: "To lower the money supply, they are causing interest rates to rise, and therefore causing aggregate spending to fall... Yet the money supply has not appreciably declined overall, though it varies frommonthto month and because there are six to eight definitions of the money supply.'' 

College of Engineering receives grant 
by Michael Onufrak 
Senio:r Coj y Editor 
Theodore C. Lut~, President Carter's administrator of the Urban Mass Transit Admini­stration (UMT A), was on cam­pus yesterday to announce that the Notre Dame College of Engineering will receive a $5.) million research grant to study the effects of cold weather on mass transportation systems. Lutz was accompanied yester­day by House Majority Whip John Brad em as and Indiana Senator Birch Bayh who, ac­cording to Lutz, were instru­mental in seeing that the federal grant went to Notre Dame. 
Lutz, a former general mana­ger of the Washington, D.C. metro system, said that con­temporary mass transit systems have "a modern way of dealing with most problems, but an antiquated way of dealing with climate problems." 
He noted Washington's prob­lem with irs own system last 
[continued on page 3] 
Congress revieUJs revised budget 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Pres­of 30 industrial stocks fell 23.04 ident Caner's revised budget points and dosed at 788.65, the got a rough reception at its sharpest one-day drop of the debut yesterday in Congress year. while Carter told city -officials Analysts said investors ap­stern mea~ures are essential in parently feared the Carter pro­the nation's '·first real belt­gram would hasten an economic tightening since World War recession. II." Sen. William Proxmire, 
1he new Carter program was chairman of the Senate Bank­received with disappointment ing Committee, took advantage in financial markets yesterday of an appearance by Alfred The Dow Jones dosing average Kahn, the presidentls chief in­
He also said it was "unforgi­vable and wrong'' for Carter to Since interest rates are not obviously very delay details of his budget cuts successful in restraining money supply, ] ame­until after the New York pri­son continued, "why are interest rates so high? mary election later this month. They're primarily a reflection of people's "Nobody's waiting for any­expectations about inflation. Another cause is thing,'' White House press sec­Fed moves such as r!lising the discount rate retary Jody Powell said of Prox­(interest charged on loans to member banks) in mire's contention that budget­October and the willingness of the Fed to raise cutting details were being wtth­it." held intentionally. ''That al­
"The hand of the Fed is being reinforced by legation just won't hold water inflation, and there is little reason to criticize if with anyone who is familiar you measure the real interest rate,'' Rakowski with the budget process." concluded. As for the schedule of Demo­
Balancing the federal budget is a measure that cratic primaries, Powell said, "in and by itself won't do much," stated "You've got big states coming Herbert Sim, professor and chairman of the up every week." department ofFinance and Business Economics. Kahn, who defended Carter's He noted that eliminating the $16 billion deficit revised budget proposal before for the fiscal1981 budget, which goes into effect the Banking Committee, said in October, "probably will reduce inflation by he was not privy to political de­less than one percent, with some estimates as cisions in the White House. low as one-tenth of one percent, but I think However, he said he accepted that's too low. To really reduce inflation, the the contention by other officials budget must be ba~anced at. a f!lUC~ lowe_r _level that a detailed proposal would of expenditure, whtch at thts ttme ts pohttcally not be ready before the end of non-realistic." the month. 
Carter said Friday he would balance the fiscal 1981 budget as part of an intensified strug­gle against inflation. An annual mflation rate of 18 percent was reported in January, the infla­tion rate exceeded 13 percent in 1979. 
Yesterday, the president met officials of the National League of Cities to defend his budget­cutting plan, saying "nothing short of stern measures" will stop the nation's headlong rush into w";<:f'ned inflation. 
"TJ-'-'~e is no sugar-coating this pill,'' Carter said of his budget plan, adding that muni­cipal officials can expect "less federal aid for cities." 
''There will be less even for defense programs, which are not directly related to combat readiness," he said. "It will mean our first real belt-tight­ening since World War II, when we fought against fascism." 
The president said the specif­ic budget reductions he wtll an­nounce later this month ''will affect everyone.'' 
Carter's original 1981 budget called for outlays of $616 bil­lion, with a projected deficit of $15.8 billion. 
The revised version calls for $13 billion in cuts, between $611 billion and $613 billion in spending, and a surplus of between $11 billion and $13 billion. 
The administration has ruled 
out a tax cut for the time being, 
saying a balanced budget ts 
more important as a first step 
toward controlling inflation. 
~------------------------­
News in brief 
Sperm controversy comes to ahead,-officials worry 
ESCONDIDO, Calif (AP)-Following publicity about his sperm bank for Nobel Prize winners, Robert K. Graham says he has hired a guard for his 10-acre estate and underground sperm vault and refuses to talk with reporters. An outcry of criticism, and some plaudits, met Graham's statement Feb. 29 that three Nr-bel Prize winners had contributed sperm to the Hermann J. 1vfuller Repository for Germinal Choice. only 
one laureate, Dr. William Shockley, confirmed Graham's claim. The idea is to artificially inseminate intelligent women whose husband~ are infertile, said Graham, a 73-year-old businessman. 
Surgeons get scalpels 
cros~ed ,-bungle operations 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) · Two women were wheeled into surgery· at Graduate J-10spital, but, through a once-in-a­million mixup, each one got the operation that was intended for the other, hospital officials confirmed yesterday. One woman who checked in with a ruptured disc had part of a neck thyroid gland removed, while the other patient w11o had the thyroidf.roblem got the cervical laminectomy at the back of her hea . Hospital officials refused to say whether the unnecessary surgery would affect the future health of either patient. They said the mistake was "embarrassing" and "horribly regretful.·' 
Carter inflation-fighting program boosts dollar 
LONDON (AP) -A warm reception for President Carter's new inflation-fighting program sharply boosted the dollar on foreign currency markets yesterday, while gold prices plummeted below $500 an ounce in Europe. The dollar gained more than a cent against several major currencies and reached levels not seen in some cases for nearly two years. Gold lost $49 an ounce in London to close at $477.50 and was down $35 in Zurich, winding up $489.00. 
Weather 
Sunny and pleasant. High in the upper 30s to low 40s. 
Clear at night with lows in the low to mid 20s. Mostly sunny 
tomorrow. High in the upper 40s to around 50. · 
CamP-_us_-----~ 
8 a.m. SEMINAR "women's management seminar, CAR 
ROLL HALL,SMC 
1-3 pm EXHIBITION "ceramics" by patrick brophy, ISIS GALLERY 
4:30pm SEMINAR "can interdisciplinary terms survive in a discipline oriented academic institution?" dr. john cairns, jr. va. polytech. insr. & st. u., spons. by biology dept., GALVIN AUD. 
6 pm MEETING i.s.o. LAFORTUNE BASEMENT 
7, 9:15, 11:30 MOVIE chinatown, spons. by senior class, EN(;R. AUD. 
-:':30 DISCUSSION "morality of natural family planning," prof charles rice, n.d. spons. by soc. dept., 203 O'SHAG. 
7: 3{J ·>m PLAY "lady on the rocks," (a play on alcoholism) alexian brothers of chicago, spons. by alcohol education c:uuncil of smc, no charge, CARROLL HALL SMC. 
7:30 pm DISCUSSION "lawyers nights," jack carey, large firm; james hall -patent law; tim mcdevitt, business law; james roemer, administrative; tom singer, trial. spons. by pre-trial society, ARCH. AUD. 
B pm VOLLEYBALL, nd men vs. drakt> u., ACC 
H pm LECTURE ) in german) "entwicklungshilfe-aktuelle fragen der nord-sud-problematik" dr. erich kristen, consul general & austrian consulate gen, chicago, spons. by dept. of modern & classical lang. & german club, LIB. LOUNGE 
Tuesday, March 18, 1980-page 2 
In illinois Primary 
Candidates exchange accusations 
CHICAGO (AP) -Rep. John B. Anderson accused Ronald Rea­~an of desperation tactics for mviting him out of the Republi­can party, while Sen. Edward 
M. Kennedy marched yester­day for what he conceded is 
close  to  a  lost  cause  in  his  
campaign  -the  Illinois  presi­ 
dential primary.  

On the eve of the contest all entries have called a watershed test of strength, Reagan, An­derson, and former U.N. Am­bassador George Bush roamed Chicago and the state in a final quest for votes. 
Kennedy was marching with Chicago Mayor } anc· Byrne in the St. Patrick's D~1y Parade. Kennedy and his wife· also went to Mass wit., the mayor, a key ally in his chalknge to Presi­dent Carter. 
But Kennedy virtually conced­ed that he will lose the popular vote in today's primary. In an election-eve television inter­view, he said he is most hopeful for a strong showing in the delegate-selection phase of the contest. The popular vote is advisory; delegate!' are elected separately. 
On a raw and rainy campaign day, Aoderson and Reagan did 
German club to present lecture 
Faculty and students of the University are cordially invited to attend a lecture (in German) on Entwicklungshilfe -Aktuelle Fragen der Nord-Sud-Proble­mauk by Dr. Erich Kristen, Consul General for the Austrian Consulate General in Chicago. The talk Hill be tonight at 8 
p.m. in the Faculty Lounge, Memorial Library. 
The Observer. 
Night Editor: Ryan "No Doz'' Ver Berkmoes Asst. Night Editor: Bill Kee­nan, Cindy Kliros Copy Editor: Tom Jackman Layout Staff: Beth Huffman, Katie Durkin, Kathy "Just Plain Lost'' Vick News Editor: Mike Lewis Sports Layout: John Smith, Tom Schuster, Mark Perry Sports Copy Editor: Beth Huffman Typists: Mary Beth Budd, Kate Huffman EMT: S. Paul Selavko Proofreader: Sal "Who says I'm not Irish?" Granata ND Day Editor: Lisa Stanczak SMC Day Editor: Cece tlatll­les Photographer: Chris Salvino Guest Appearances: ,,
1
Steve "More Green Beer. Swonk, Neil (yesryan,cindy,
J.J ., Mary Jo, etc. I had a good time Saturday) 
The Obslrvlr (USPS B !12111 11 published Mondly through frldly II· capt during 111m and vacatilll pirilds. The Observer Is publistlld by tiM students of Notre 011111 Mil Saint Miry's Cllllgl. Sublcriptila lillY b1 purchnld for S2U P1f yur 1111 per semattrjl1'11111 The Observer, 1».0. blx 0, Nitre 011111, llldiaRI 41556. Slclftd clan "=XI paid, Notre 011111, In­diana . 
The Observer is 1 lllllllblr If tiM Asllclatld Pl"'ll. All r•ldiCIIIM rights 11'1 l'lllfWd. 
some hand-to-hand vote hunting at Chicago commuter stops while Bush toured the state in an eff~rt to boost his tottering 
campat~n. 
The btg parade stepped off in controversy, sime the mayor at first refused to invite President Carter to march, then relented and asked him at Kennedy's urging. Carter declined, re­maining in W ashingron as he has throughout the campaign. Vice Presidc:nt Walter F. Moo­dale was his stand-in campaig­ner in Illinois, as in early contests. 
Carter's wife Rosalyn went to New York for the St. Patrick's Day parade there, where Demo­crats vme in another big pri­mary election next Tuesday. 
Reagan has suggested that Anderson, the liberal congress­man from Rockford, Ill., might be more Democrat than Repu­blican. Anderson called that a '' desperation last-minute elec­tion charge." 
Anderson previously had termed Reagan a sure loser in a battle aga10st Carter. But later yesterday, Anderson said he could support Reagan as the GOP nomtnee if he broadens his philosophy. "He'd have to modenne his views," he said. 
The former California gover­nor denounced Carter's foreign and defense policies yesterday saying the administration al­ready has let the United States slip into second place in the world military strength. 
He told the Chicago Council on Forei~n Relations that Carter's promtse to keep the nation second to none is an empty one. ''How can he keep us where we are not?' Reagan asked. "We are already second to one, namely, the Soviet Union." 

gregg  e,resents rock with  mark  
richards  jim henry  peterson  
jim  brian  
murray  mchale  
tuesday, march 18th  

Rent Your Tuxedo At..... CENTURYFORMALWEAR 
anything in stock 
$2995 
1622 MISHAWAKA AVE. (S.B.) 287-5938 


WE'VE 
GOT 
THEM. 
Let us convert your college degree into an executive position in one of more than 40 career fields. Find out if you can apply what you've learned in college to a job with chal­lenge and demand. 
It's an opportunity that offers you an excellent salary, 30 days of paid vacation a year, a chance for graduate education, plus much, much more. Call: MSgt. Stan Steward 
(219) 287-6616 
collect 
A great way oflife. 
.. ~ ..... 


The Observer Tuesday,March 18, 1980-page 3 
·SMC Board approves ~uition hike 
~y ToniAanstoos 
A 10.3 percent increase in student costs at Saint Mary's College has been approved by the Board of Regents. The tuition rose from $3,550 to $3,950, while the fee for board was increased from $930 to $980. The average room rate will be $122 higher· $1,040, as opposed to $918 this year. 
All of these changes will become effective this summer. The additional costs are neces­sary for the financial stability of the college, in accordance with the rising price of inflation, according to President John 
Duggan. 
A letter explaining the in­crease in fees sent from Dug­gan to the parents of SMC students stated the reason for the increase as follows: "To ensure a balanced budget and to allow for cost of livin~ increases for faculty, admini­stration, and staff.'' Other fac­tors influencing the increase is the climbing prices of heating, electricity, food, and telephone costs that the college must 
absorb. 
Duggan's letter continued, '' ...no aspect of the budget is more carefully weighed than the costs borne by parents: 
tuition, room and board, and fees.'' 
] ason Lin dower, controller at SMC explained the long and thorough process involved in building a budget. In August, the controller, Business Admi­nistration, and department heads meet with four econo­mists, and they attempt to predict the economic outlook not only for the following year but also the next four years. They use labor cost, general wage price, food prices, and utiltties as an index to aid in their forecasts. 
The committee meets again in October to revise their earlier plans, encorporating the econo­mic events that have occurred durin~ the intermittant months. Keepmg· a watchful eye on the budgetary issues, the commit-
Roemer drops charges 
Recent charges of cheating on an economics exam seem to have disippated, as preliminary investigations have discovered no evidence of cheating in the incident. 
Dean of Students ] ames Roemer recently said in a state­ment, "There has been no evidence uncovered which shows a conspiracy to obtain the test from the copy center nor has there been any evi­dence that reveals that any Copy Center employee has im­properly obtained and provided to others advance copies of a test.'' 
Economics professor Thomas Swartz had initially suspected that several students in Econo­mic courses 124 and 224 had obtained copies of the exam prior to the test. 
Students in Dillon hall were under investigation, but they denied the charges in a meeting with Roemer last week. Since the charges could not be sub­stantiated, Swartz released the grades of the students in the dorm late last week. 
tee waits until February to draw up their final budget proposal. This proposal must be submit· ted to the Board of Regents at their February meeting and must then be approved by the Board before it can be institut­ed. 
At a time of spiraling inflation, many colleges and universities across the nation are forced to raise their rates. Yet Lindower pointed out, "We issued one of the lowest increases in the state of Indiana. In fact, we're wor­ried that it is not high enough.'' 
The unpredictable rate of in­flation makes college budget planning more difficult and less accurate than in past years. However, SMC reserves the right to raise its fees in mid year iffaced with an unforeseen financial hardship. Lindower was quick to add, however, that the college would definitely try to wait out the year before raising its prices twice if su'ch a situation occurred. 
Cutting costs in areas where­ver possible would be advocat­ed to attempt to prolong such an increase until the next year. The next year, accordingly, would be a "catch-up year" and would include higher fee mcreases. 
As inflation rose in the past, so 
has the tuition, room and board at SMC. For example, from the 1976-77 school year to the '77-78 year, tuition rose $150, board went up $20 and room fees increased $57. From the 1977·78 to the '78-79 school year, tuition increased $300 and the board went up $50. There was no increase m room fee, however a phone fee of $50 was instituted. 
Duggan also pointed out that this year's increase in fees is accompanied by a J?roportional raise in scholarship funds, work-study programs, and on­campus jobs. 
The college has a general pool of revenues which accrues from such areas as the renting of the campus during the summer, commission from the vending machines, unrestricted gifts,· student fees, income on en­downment funds, and invest­ments. 
The majority of the revenue is from student fees, unrestricted gifts, and short-term invest­ments. The increase in scholar­ship funding is absorbed by this ~eneral pool of revenues; thus, It cannot be claimed that in­comt from only student fees covers the increase in scholar­ships. 
• • .Grant 
BREAK TIME 
DIRECT O'HARE~ $15 EXPRESS $15 from NOTRE DAME CIRCLE 
March27  depart 4pm  arrive 5:30pm  
March28  lOam  11:30 am  
lpm  2:30 p,n  



The Sorin Hall formal opened orJ a refreshing note as these revellers anticipate a bit of the bubbly. [Photo by Chris Salvino]. 
J0lni01t '30hlll0~ 9t.jp %cblfu 
01te now avat~ablle ill ~C(to~tulle Olld ~evUotm. 
BUY RAFFLE TICKETS AT SENIOR BAR AND SAVE$50!!! 
DRAWING MARCH 20, 
11:00 pm AT SENIOR BAR. 
Applications For-
I 
Assistant Treasurer­Suadent(;overnrnent -mustbe presently a sophmore and going into Accounting -pickup applications in Treasurer's Office 2nd Floor Lafortune -applications due Thursday, March 27 
~============== 
IN CASE YOU'VE . MISSED US... WE'VE MISSED YOU! 
Over the past decade, Michael & Co. has been pleased to serve all of our valued Notre Dame and St. Mary's customers. Recently, we moved from our old Edison Rd. at Ind. 23 location which was just Y:z mile away. Now we're only 2Y:z miles away! Still on Edison Rd. Still convenient. Still the one. We welcome you to visit us soon at our all new salon. 
Featuring hair and skincare products bv · 

OPEN TUE. & THUR. 'TIL9 P.M.  
NORTH: 236 W. EDISON, MISHAWAKA 256-5600 SOUTH: IRELAND AT IRONWOOD. SOUTH BEND 291-1001 Nobody looks quite like you ... let us help keep you that way.  
1 J  

I· 
[continued from page 1] 
year which required the city to hire 300 workers to remove snow and ice from transit rails as an example of an "antiquat­ed'' solution to a climate prob­lem. 
According to Engineering Dean Robert C. Hogan, there are ways modern technology can be applied to climate prob­lems such as snow and ice removal from mass transit syst­ems. 
"What we will do first, is determine the basic principles of the problem; the relation ships between snow and steel, and sleet and concrete to name two. Then, we will determine the best way to ~et rid of the problem by utihzing modern technology." Hogan suggested lasers, microwaves, and ultra­sonics as elements to be ex­plored as possible solutions for the problem of snow removal. He said that research will likely begin later this semester. 
Bayn, chairman of the Senate Transportation Appropriations Committee, lauded Notre Dame for having "the nucleus of expertise" to enable the ~rant to be given to a university m his home state. 
''This research is important because the energy problem is one that won't be wished away. Part of the over-all solution is to ~et people out of their cars and mto mass transit systems,'' he said. Bayh also predicted that "significant results" will be forthcpming from the research. 
The grant is part of the federal Department of Trans­portation's appropriated funds for research for fiscal 1980. Brademas, who had just re­turned from eight days of b~dget-trimming in Washing­ton, said that he and Bayh were fortunate to ''get the grant over the line" before the budget cuts began. More than 20 ND professors from five engineering depart­ments will be involved in the research. According to Hogan, student participation in the research will be mostly limited to graduate students as is the common practice with en­gineering research grants. 
The Observer Tuesday, March 18, 1980 -page 4 

Volunteer services 
VISTA, Peace Corps to interview 
by Roberta Batte£ len~e facing today's domestic State•s. Their job is "to work soc1al service organizations. with (700) grass roots organiza­
Volunteers in Service to A-She assessed the number of tions and to help them to meet merica (VISTA) offers students Americans livin~ at the-poverty their goals," she said. an opportunity to live and work lf'vel as "a nauonal disgrace" Volunteers' wages are $349 in poverty-stricken area of the and called Notre Dame students per month, the current poverty­Umted States. Jeff Fredrick-"a super group of-people who level wage, so that "volunteers son, area representative for the are not waiting to serve others live and serve as part of the Peace Corps and VISTA, will be and make a difference. community," Carney said. In interviewing prospective volun-Carney summed up the pre-addition, $75 per month is put teers for these two programs sent status of America's at-aside as an end-of-service sri­this Wednesday afternoon, tempts to relieve the plight of pend to help the volunteer March 19. its poor. "In 1964 with the War relocate after his year of duty. 
Interested seniors may sign on Poverty, the Office of Eco-Carney noted that as Con-up in the Placement Bureau nomic Opportunity was esta-gress cuts expenditures, the through Wednesday morning bl!shed with th<; g?al of elimin-money availabe for such agen­for these sessions. Fredrick-atmg poverty wahm ten years. cies becomes "more and more son, a former VISTA volunteer, Now it is fifteen years later, and limited. This is our fourth year will again conduct interviews there are 27 million Americans without a Congressional appro­for both service organizations living at the poverty level,'' she priation, so we can only spend on April 15 and 16. said. on a 1977 budget, and with 
As the second in a series of Carney served for two years inflation, that's not too much," talks about volunteer service, as a special assistant in the Job she added. ] eanne Carney, deputy director Corps offices of the Office of Before entering the field, of Volunteers in Service to Economic Opportunity and later volunteers participate in a four-America (VISTA), addressed a received an appointment as day Pre-Service Orientation small but receptive group last management intern to VISTA. (PSO), which Carney described Thursday afternoon m the Li-In addition to her duties as as "a curriculum to enter the brary Auditorium. Earlier this VISTA deputy director, she is community. You begin to month, Richard Celeste, direc-deputy director of the ACTION identify problems, to under-LOr of the Peace Corps, spoke on Education and Service Learning stand what research will be 
This undercover officer impersonates as bartender Ed campus about foreign service Program, and she has held needed, and to analyze the Staut!er at the Sorin formal Saturday night. [Photo by Chris opportunities. these two position since Octo-community you will be going SalvznoJ. Carney discussed the chal-ber 1979. into and seemg its needs." 
~ , _ Carney described VISTA's Pat Booker, Chicago area 
f
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q~~!B!W,Q~~~~~~~~~~~~!~ ~~~hni~at:n'~P3e;;~io:~lunt:e~~ ~~~f~~ne~a:h~e;he ~~~s:r~~~ 
~ work full-time in 2000 poverty is not made an orphan after
.flew '~~ PSO.
communities across the United 
®rab~. -~:n · 
• • -:}i!gtt~~~/~:;~ ·Ethanol plant production 
'\"~ \.._,nr,/ So th Be d • b 
bt or not to JLt·)·\\\ \~ ~(\' lj creates u n JO s 
,.,~"~ \\ ,,· ~
involved with GOODYEAR AEROSPACE 
1\\ ~-SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP)-A gallons of gasohol, as well as 
,1 ~­
the 1 with the blimps... \. ~ $100 million plant to produce 186,000 tons of high-protein ethanol -the ingredient that feed supplement for livestock.
I ~ 
~ combines with gasoline to make It will consume about 20 million
Opportunities for you now 
gasohol -will be built in this bushels of Indiana and Michi­
~ northern Indiana city, creating gan corn per year, purchased
I ~· 
to br involved with: 
jobs and a new market for grain within a 40-mile radms, creat­farmers, backers of the project ing a boom to area farmers, =:<= Direnfeld said. · 
:=----.:::::.. said yesterday. 
* Digital Technology (Parallel The announcement was made Currently, U.S. ethanol 
~ 
Processors) by officials of New Energy Inc., plants produce less than 100 a Washin&ton, D.C.-based cor­million gallons of the alcohol a
~=~
* Correllation Guidance Systems poration, JOined by Sen. Birch year. New Energy's plant in 
~~ 

-.-Bayh, D-Ind., U.S. Rep. John South Bend is expected to
(Radar, Optical, Infrared) 
Brademas, D-Ind., and Mayor account for about a quarter of Roger Parent. the nation's production in the
* 
Flight Simulators The plant, to be built on a mid 1980's, when other new 70-acre site on the city's far plants also will be completed.

* 
Aircraft Wheels and Brakes south-west side, could be in Most of the engineering and -.-business in about two and a half design phase of the project has ;:~ years, if the developer can been completed by Davy 


---· 
---obtain approval from various McKee, one of the largest =--.::::. federal agencies. energy en~ineering firms in the
If you are about to br endowed ;::§­
: ....:::::. Bayh described the facility as world, sa1d spokesman Calvin :-~ "a very significant step for­Todd. Construction will employ 
with an EE, ME, or ComSci degree :<::=
-.­
ward in our nation's efforts to an average of 300 workers, with 
~ 
=-==::-. obtain energy independence." as many as 600 workin~ on the 
:-.::=:
If you want to br at the state-of­''This is good news for the plant at times, Todd srud. 
--·­
people of Indiana, certainly Enzymes used in the processthe-art with a leader in the good news for the farmers in probablY. will be _purchased 
=---=-­
~~ 
=-:=: our state and good news for the from Mtles Laboratones Inc. of
aerospace industry 
consumers in our state," said Elkhart, he added. ~~~ Brademas. New Energy, a privately 
-.­
--
Your resume is to hr sent to: "The reason we're in South owned venture formed about ;~ ·-Bend is the specifics that are six months ago to produce eth­
E. L Searle here. It's hard to believe that anol as an alternative to crude
;c 
:<::: politics meant nothin~. The oil, has been working on its Goodyear Aerospace Corporation --:--::: only desire was to get thts plant plans in South Bend since ~--= in to South Bend,'' said Barry November, Direnfeld said. 
Akron, Ohio 44315 
52 
~:::::. B. Direnfeld, president of New An application to the Depart­
=....=:::. 
Energy. ment of Energy to provide
~===­
An Equal Opportunity Employer §:§ The plant, described as the financial backing for about 75 largest gasohol production fa­percent of the estimated S100
M/f/H/V ;::§ 
cility of its kind, will produce million cost of the project could 
=€ 
52.5 million gallons of ethanol be approved as early as late UUVVIJIIIIVliVV J11ou .uWQ010ar~o~~ouoquoooooo00«CrJ0uoouu01J0oCo~~M~o~~00oooooooJamu~ ·per year, enough for 525 million _summer, he said. 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Manag~
The news is reponed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief:.......Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ... ........ , , .. _..Mark Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managi:zg Editor..........Diane Wilson Features ~ditor.....Kathleen Co~n~lly 
&x Q Noire Dame, IN 46JJ6 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editorial Editor .............. Ann Gales Photo Edztor ... ·' ... ,,., .. Doug Christian 
_'fhe Observer_ 
opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor.........M. Onufrak The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Business Manager., .. ,.,, Steve Odland newspaper published by the studems able to all members of rhe tommuniry, News Editor ....................Mark Rust Production Manager ..... John McGrath of the University of Notre Dame du Jac and the free expression of varying News Editor ... , .. ,..........Mike Shields Advertising Manager .. , Mike Holsinger 
a~ Sa\m Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC News Editor .. , .. ... Margie Brassil Controller.......... , ... ,.,. Kevin Manion .orce~~..o;~\fdy reflect the policies of the encouraged. Circulation Manager ......Greg Hedges
·­
p 
• 
The Observer Tuesday,March 18, 1980-page 5 


With spring approaching, students are advisee( t<_J save their bread to feed the ducks. [Photo by Doug Chrzstzan]. . 
Speakers discuss Islamic world in sympOsium at SMC 
by Margie Brasstl and Beth Huffman 
The history of the Islamic world and the problems it faces today was the topicd of a symposium given by 12 spea­kers at Saint Mary's College over the weekend. 
The Islamic world takes in all parts of the world where people live who hold the Islamic faith, explained Prof. Seyyed Hossein Nasr of Temple University, (formerly Tehran University). Prof. Frank Tachai af the University of Illinois at Chicago Circle, noted that one of the myths of the contemporary world is that all Moslems are Arabs and all Arabs are Mos­lems. 
"Furthermore, 80 percent of Moslems are non-Arabic peo­ple. For example, 10 percent of Egypt, an Arab country, is Chnstian," Tachau explained. ''There are three million Mos­lems in the U.S. today, with the 
-majority being converts," he said. According to Nasr, there were three main factors which shap­ed the Islamic world of today. First, after World War II, the West ceased to be a model for Islam. Second, the leaders of Islam adopted an extreme form of Marxism. Third, and most important, oil brought wealth lf:lld power to the Islamic na­nons. "Today, there is seemingly a revolt of Islam against the West," said Prof. Ernest Dawn of the University of Illinois, 
NDPlayers to meet tonight 
The Notre Dame Student Play­ers will hold an organizational meeting tonight in order to begin their preparations for their fall production. The play­ers will meet at 7 p.m. in the Flanner Hall Pit. 
One of the primary purposes of the meeting will be to choose members for a Student Players Steering Committee. The com­mittee's responsibilities will in­clude the scheduling and selec­tion of all plays, and the appointing of all play-produc­tion staff. Any questions con­cerning the meeung should. be directed to the Student Umon, #7757. 
''The reformers have sought to strengthen Islam against wes­tern influence. They are oppos­ed to western ideas of freedom, equality, security, power, and glory. Reformists have conf!.­dence in themselves and their culture. They will turn to the past for self-assurance and help in assuring the people that Islamic faith is the first and only religion,'' Dawn explained. 
In tune with Dawn's speech, most of the speakers stressed the importance of the Islamic relition, the Moslem world and the hojads, the Islamic tea­chers. Prof. Bert De Vries of Calvin College, explaining some of the basic ideas of the Islamic religion, said it was a monotheistic sect founded by the prophet Mohammed. 
Mohammed stressed theocra­cy according to De Vries, a politics based on the belief that God is in charge. The •Cliyin¢ law, or shauria, of Islam, given to Mohammed by Allah, stres­sed that religious law is to be the principle behavior within the state. 
''The Kalif, or successor of the prophet is to be followed," De Vries said. The Moslems be­lieve the world is divided into two factions, the House of Islam, or the territory under which God has control, and the Jihad, or the House of War, where God does not rule," De Vries explained. 
''Another myth of the Islamic faith perceived by the ~e~t. is that the Moslems are pnmmve and uncivilized," said Tachau. "In fact Islam is the closest religion to Christianity and ] udaism. Islam was perceived by Christians as a reJection of Christianiry. Moslems merely . deny the divinity of Christ,'' he 
explained. 
Islam traditionally calls Chris­tianity and ] udaism imperfect and claims the two religions distort the word of God accord­ing to Tachau. 
Russ Braley, correspondent for the New York Daily News in Iran, presented a lecture on the "Scourging of the Shah." Bra­ley termed the takeover ~>: Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomerm as an unforeseen and unpredic­table coup. In defense of the Shah, Braley said Mohammed Reza Pahlavi had nearly brought Iran into the 20th century. ''The media turned on Republic, left behind at least 31 other hostages, inCluding U.S. Ambassador Diego Asencio and 12 other ambassadors or acting ambassadors. 
the  Shah,"  said  Braley,  des­ 
cri~ing  the  downfall  of  the  
regime.  

The figure of 31 hostages was reported yesterday by Colom­bian_ media quoting othcial sources. Earlier reports had said about two dozen persons were being held. 
The guerrillas, demanding freedom for jailed comrades, have vowed to kill themselves and their captives if their conditions are not met. 
Colombian President Julio Ce­sar Turbay Ayala made public a message received last Friday from Cuban Premier Fidel Cas­tro which proposed "a way out of the complex situation" by offering ''to receive the guerril­la commandos, hostages and political prisoners through a direct Bogota-Havana flight." 
In his response, which was also made public, President Turbay Ayala ignored the men­tion of the political prisoners but thanked Castro for the offer and said he would take it into account if it became necessary. 
Gomez, in his underwear, opened a second-floor window at about 12:40 a.m. and lowered himself down a knotted string of sheets, but it broke and he dropped to a patch of grass in front of the embassy, authori­ties and witnesses said. 
SMCpresents play on alcoholism 
A play about alcoholism will be presented at Saint Mary's College today. The perfor­mance will begin at 7:30p.m. in Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall. 
The presentation is sponsored by the Alcohol Education Coun­cil of Saint Mary's College in cooperation with the Alcoholic Treatment Unit at Alexian Bro­thers Medical Center, Elk Grove Village, Ilinois. 
The Pavilion Players, a troupe of actors and actresses who donate their time and talent to Alexian Brothers, portray the characters in the play, Under the direction of Father Martin McCormick, associate director of the Medical Center's Depart­ment of Religion, the Pavilion Players have presented over 100 performances before more th~n 20,000 persons. 
terrorists. It was a moonlit night and he was completely exposed to their guns," an army officer who participated in the rescue said. 
The guerrillas previously had released a total of 24 captives, including two ambassadors, Maria Elena Chassoul of Costa Rica and Edr Selzer of Austria. 
The guerrillas, members of the April 19 Movement, or M-19, suspende(·: negotiations with Colombian officials last Thursday. Officials say the next step is up to the terrorists, who demand freedom for 215 M-19 members held on such charges as rebellion, bank robbery, raiding an army arsenal, kid­napping, and murder. 
-
-
.1-'REPAP.E FOR: 
YEAR 
MCIT•DIT•LSAT •BMAT &RE•GRE PSYCH ·IJRE 810 PCAT•OCIT:vAT· UI1T ·SAT 1MBI,H.m•ECFMB· FLEJl· IQE 
' 
' 
.. 

Oflicers 
AI SchDJDacher Maggie Ballet 
Mary Steiner 
Jelllartz 
VOTE MARCH 19 
OUR p
41st 

NOB I, D • NPB I • fiLE Flexible Programs & Hl Jrs 
Visit Any Center And See F1Jr Yourself Why We Malee The Difference 
M N
f=tM~ 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER
291-3150 
TEST PIIEPARATIOH SPECI~LISTS SINCE 11138 
Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800·223·1782 Centers In More T'lan 80 Major US Cities Puerto Rico •..Tnront~. Canada & Lugano Switzerland 
--·· 
THIS IS THE LASTCHANCE THIS YEAR 

• 
Tuesday,March 18, 1980-page 6 
The Observer 
it was reflected by the players. though•. that their secrecy with 
[continued from page 7) 
They're all class people. the whole issue was enough to And you know what? We're make any coaci1 or player say to 
...Harriers
tions and the unavailability of hell with it and leave. The teamUniversity officials for answers; still waiting for an answer from ·stuck it out however and they
it's all something Notre Dame the University concerning this [continued from page 8]
did it with a lot of cl~ss. Notreshould be ashamed of. whole Title IX ordeal. Word has Freshman Steve Dziabis wasDame hockey has been nothingBut throu~h it all, Smith and it an announcement will be the only other member of the
... Season 
but a class program from dayassistant R1c Schafer were ho· made April 1 . very nicely timed Irish squad to make the trip. 
~me ~nd it exemplifies thatnest with their players and with with spring break, thank-you. 
He also failed to qualify for the1llustnous Notre Dame image ofrecruits for next year. They Will it be a long range answer finals il?-~is event! t~e 600 yardstudent-athlete to perfection. Iexhibited a lot of class and a or not? We should soon see. 
competition. DZiabts finished
superhuman amount of pa· The people under the Golden hope no one ever overlooks that again. 
in fourth place in his heat.
tience throughout the year, and Dome should recognize, . 
Piane noted, 'Tm· very 
Molarity 

The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 
ENGINEERS 
Gulf Oil Corporation, a major energy company, has job openings for all types of graduating engineers who are interested in building a career In crude oil and gas producing operations. 
Duties include drilling, equipment installation and maintenance, subsurface reservoir studies, economic evaluation of producing properties, well stimulation and reconditioning, and enhanced oil recovery operations. \. 
Individual development courses will be provided, including outstanding oil and drilling instruction. Positions are located in Gulf Coast, Mid-Continent, Rocky Mountain, and West Coast areas. Excellent employee benefits. 
Applicant must be U.S. citizen or hold a permanent resident visa. 
Please send resume and transcript to: 

J. R. Ligon, Jr. 
GULF OIL EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION COMPANY Sec. E. P.O. Drawer 2100 
Houston, TX 77001 
An Equal Opportunity Employer MIF 
pleased with Steve's perfor· mance. It's a great accomplish­
by Michael Molinelli ment just to qualify for the 
ACROSS 26 Lion slain 62 Wood for 25 Branch of 1 Lick up by Hercules pipes math. 4 Scintilla 31 Set in 63 -deal! 27 Offenses, 8 Testing motion 64 Came to in law 
places 35 Vibrated rest 28 Greenland 12 Soft drink 38 Island off 65 "Just-at settlement 13 Metered Alaska twilight" 29 -time 
vehicle 39 Site of 66 Improve (never) 14 Soap sub-nuclear 67 Light 30 Stripped 
stance power plant colors 31 To-do 16 Sashes 42 Land of 68 Before: 32 In one end, 17 ldi Yezd pref. out the 18 Tanker 43 River to 69 Notable other 19 "The China the Elbe ages 33 Macaws 
Syndrome" 44 Resort lake 70 Mouths: Lat. 34 Fissure 
22 Of a blood 45 Corroded 36 Pub drink vessel: 47 Keats opus DOWN 37 Peter the pref. 49 Isinglass 1 Roonded pianist
23 Matchmaker 52 Bailiffs 2 Tilting 40 Press and of myths 57 Items of 3 Out of radio 24 Word with concern fashion· 41 Girder 
on or up at 39A 4 Of remote material ancestors 46 DevelopMonday's Results 5 Tractable 48 Phobias 

6 Chemical 50 Felony compound 51 Following 7 Underground 53 Muse of worker poetry 8 Chinese 54 Of the palm philosopher 55 City in 9 Between Minnesota 10 Machete's 56 Planes . 
relative 57 Basketball 11 Seattle-org. 12 Book by 58 Bear: Lat. 
Robin Cook 59 Grafting 15 Sea eagle part: var. 20 Mad 60 Imparted 21 Drawn out: 61 Annapolis 
pref. monogram 
1 Buying_? Selling? Renting?L Observer Classifieds ... 
(NCAA) finals." 
The Irish now take a two week breather until the opening of the outdoor season on March 29, when they will host the Irish Invitational. 

TH[ FIGHTING .IRISH 
Doonesbury 
by G.B. Trudeau 

Y&AH, I'M 7RYIN6 TV Y£5, MK /A/RAP UPHERE, 1/NPI NIL.KI&. PJA5NON/1fR!N6/f7Hc 
MAY I CANI1111ATE HAP ANY HUP LAST-M!Nt/Tl PLAT!TUPE5 YOU~""' 1 '~ 8eFOFC 70· ~ -11AY5 PR!­
__... MARY. 
.----TAKENG 1\'lCATS?----.
1 
NOW AVAILABLE: "A Comp.'ctePreparatlon FortheNEW MCAi. '' A 420 page self-study gu1de developed at Harvard un1versay to improve sc1enca and math performance. Before investing hundreds invest only S14 00 (incl. postage) 
Heallh Professions Education Service Inc. 11901 GoyaDr.. Roc!<ville. MD 20854 
Please forward . copies of the NEW MCAT preparation 
gui'de at 514 00 per cooy. Amo:.~nt of er:clo3ed check _____ 
Pnnt Name ___________________ 
Address----------------­
Z·p_____
City· State _______________ 
I'M AFRA/11JoKJT, 5/R. MR. ANfJER· 50N ONLY TAll<? 
IN 5PWFIC5. 
BUTicaJU? 6£T YOU AN' cP!Gf<AM IF 
YOU WANT. 
r····ttwirerwlrcot~rsr:-=;1 
"THIS/SA
I'M 50RK'/, 
.CAMPAIGN OF
I notthetn lndlana'elatgest tecSld I ~Q,_ I 
5/R. 7HI5/S 
1/JEA5." OKAY,
A CAMPAIGN 
THAT'S 600/J
I selection and concettttcket heaelquattets I
I . I 
any regu ar a um or tape
•• Jl.OO I .~.
lb
1 
1 purchase with this coupon. 1I OFF llmlton•p•rp•raon •xplrl's3/31/80 I I 20,000olbums & tapealn atock II Hug• c"'•out and special impott •_•l•ctlon Iop•n loto 10.1 1 NO-SffiCchecksoccepWduptoS20.00 7 ~09' 1 
I 
ov•t putehose cost I 
-~~~\.Ut:!.~rtb.~II.D.i.tti.i1~=!J'.&~~,mJ,~~m~~--J 

.
... ' 

The Observer -Sports Tuesday,March 18, 1980-page 7 
... Rules 
[continued from page 8) 
Kansas, that the only way to change the rule -Article 39 C of the association's by-laws -is to submit a request to the NCAA to either abolish that rule or relax the provision to allow such things as "Bookstore" basket­ball competition. 
''However that would have had to be in by November 1, 1979," Berst pointed out when asked if it was too late to deal with the problem before this year's tournament. 
''What we needed was a 
... written request from someone in the athletic department such as Father Joyce or Mr. Krause,'' Berst continued. "We would have then circulat­ed that request among the member institutions and then voted on the motion at our joint convention in January.'' 
Why then was this not done? 
"But it was," protests Latz who recalls his extensive deal­ings with the NCAA of a year ago. "We sent them a written request last year and they set up a special conference call with a few of the NCAA's directors to decide on the matter. 
"We were turned down." 
Berst, however, maintains that it might not have hurt to resubmit the request to the general body in January. 
"Personally I wouldn't think they'd accept the proposal be­cause of the 'loose' interpreta­tions some schools might read into it," he explained. "How­ever, a couple of Jears ago I never thought we' . have sum­mer leagues, but the board passed that one. So there's 
Classifieds 
really no predicting how they will rule.'' 
Berst made it clear that he has no personal interest m the decision. 
"I really don't care," he added. "My job is simply to read the rules back between conventions.'' 
And you can bet that not a school in this country will ~et away with allowing their eltgi­ble varsity basketball players to participate in a campus tour­nament-for-fun as long as the NCAA's' super slueths are on the job. Oh, they may drive to classes in Cadillacs (assuming of course that they have to bother going to class), live in luxury apartments and never have to wonder where their next.C-note is coming from, but damn it, .not one of them better play in a Bookstore Basketball Game... 
After all, rule:s are rules. 
[continued from page 8) 
''I feel bad about not ~oing as far as possible with th1s year's senior class," said Smith. ''They combined their athletic talents with academic excel­lence in a very unique way. For the most part, they all enjoyed their best individual seasons this year and that was very pleas111g to see. l'mgra.teful for having had the opportunity to coach them. . 
"This season was most trying, to say the least. We just never had the chan~e to· get the momentum gomg. What we feared most going into the year -injuries to key players -hurt 
• • • Season. 
us a lot. They, wuh the morato­rium and all the adversity, the players certainly got the chance to grow and mature. They're better people for the way they handled all the adversity. They're one of the best group of players I have ever coached.'' 
All ofSmith's players earned a degree in a second major this season -the course was called Life. Not even your worst enemy deserves the second­class treatment and lack of respect the hockey team receiv ed this year from the Admini­stration. The secret manner in which the moratorium was put into effect, then many ques­
fcontimted on page 6] 
classifieds Monday thrclassifieds must be pre ough Friday. 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All -paid, either in person or through the mail.  

Notices "Tonight Rock with RPM at Vege­table Buddies. Be There!" Morrissey Loan Fund Last day for undergrads to apply is March 26. ---------------­MORRISSEY LOAN FUND ALL LOANS PREVIOUSLY DUE ON APRIL 7 WILL BE DUE ON APRIL 8 Typing Plus. T!lrm papers. theses, dissertations. Light editing, ghost writing. Literary search, bibliograph­ies. genealogies. Job resume service. Sliding rate scale based on lead t1me. Special discounts on full contracts for theses and dissertations. aardvark automatic solutions/ p.o. box 1204 46624/phone (219) 289-6753. Lost&Found Lost: One pair of dark men's sunglasses. I believe I lost them Syn. March 9 in Post office. Please call John 232-7725 ---------------­Lost· SMC class ring. SMM & BSN­'81 on inside. Lost behind ACC. Call Sharon 4-1-4295 Lost: Pair of Brown suede gloves in room 110 of Hurley BLDG. on March 12. Call Brian 272·7684 Lost: 1silver earring SMC Sat. night. Call 4611 at SMC For Rent Need female (preferably) to share omfortable furnished 2 bedroom a­partment on NO aVe. Including utilities. $62.50 summer; $125. school year. Evenings 233-9122. ---------------­Large 7 bedroom, furnished house. available for rent starting fall classes. Excellent area close to cam·pus. Some rooms available now. 289-6813 or 289-5023. !Wanted Need ride to D.C. area for break. Call Pete 2256 Anyone needing a ride to Omaha over Easter. Mike 8232.  Scintillating conversational-1st needs ride to Canton. Oh. or gen. vicinity for break. Can leave after Thurs. morn­ing. Share usual. joe 3598 Riders wanted to Champaign ( U of I) March 20. Call 41-5103 Need ride to Pittsburgh can leave Thurs. March 27. 3:00 P.M. -Matt 1612 Need ride to tlfor break. Can leave early. 8268 Need ride to Minnesota for spring break. Call Kathleen 5465 (SMC) Need ride to Tampa, Fla. for spring break. Will share driving and ex­penses. Please call Christian 272­7987. Keyboard/Rhythm guitar player needed by campus rock group. 3463 Need ride to Utica, NV. (between Syracuse & Albany) for break. Call Greg #1756. Riders needed to Ft. Lauderdale. Leaving Buffalo 3/29 Returning to N.D. 7. Call Mike 8783 or Ron 8482 Need ride to D.C. area for spring break. John 8859 Help West meet East. Give a West coaster a ride to NV C or Conn. for break. Can leave Wed. P.M. call Jay 8894 Need ride to central Pa. for break. Anyone passing thru via Pa. Turnpike please help. Expenses and driving shared. Jim 1688 Need ride to and from Miami for spring break. Will share $$. Please call 233-2201 after 11 pm on. Need ride to Newark N.J. for spring break. Will share driviing and expenses. Call Cori 287-0289 Need ride to Lauderdale the 26th share expenses. Jackie 1362. Need ride to Denver for Spring break. Will share the usual. Call Bob at 1682 Need ride to Florida for spring break. Will share expenses. Please call, Sara 7952 Help I! Am in dire need of ride to Boston for break. Can leave anytime. Will share. Fun guaranteed. Call Beth at 4-1-. 4140 Two Wild Walsh Women need ride to  Remington SR101 single element type­writer wide carnage: New $700 233-6208 Kodac film for sale 35 mm. 126, 110 half price!! 7704, 1)614 Doug Got a blank space on your wall? Fill it with color basketball action photos. All players, all sizes. Cheap. Not available from Ronco or K-tell: Call 8932. Perso11als To my fellow NYC ballet lovers, Mary, thanks for the arrangements. Marthy & Karen. thanks for the car! Moose & Kathy. thanks for the company. And avt~ry special thanks to Johnzo!!! Order your History T-shirt now!! See Mrs. Box at the History Dept. Office. WHO AM I DRIVING CRAZY??? MHV . Color basketball pictures still avail­able .. Slam dunks make great decora­tions. Call 8932. Dunn and Schafer; We'll Account f11r You! Experience is the key Vote: Sweeney McCarthy Stoll Thurs. March 20 Have typewriter · will type term papers. manuscripts. etc. 287-0892 Brent Gordon WD 1966 Alfie Weatherspoon p 1685, 2ndc, 3. Nick Stoner p 1033, 1stc. 4. Buck Chase p 1018, 1stc, 26. Luigi Guiseppe p 366, 2ndc. 9. Mari Sanchez p 1414, 1stc. 3. Brenda Starr p 322. 1stc, 5. Rock Slace p 1005. 1stc. 10. Sparkle Bangs p 211, 1stc. 20. Jane Bond p 143, 1stc. 13!1 SOH spies are imbeciles-Your downfall is imminent. Rose Thorn Maxine French Rock Quarry SMC Oft Campus Vote: Sweeney McCarthy Stoll Thurs. March 20 -----------~---­Dunn and Schafer; We'll Account for You!  Mike Dispigno Have a great day· Chips Attend aGerman Lecture! by Dr. Erich Kristen Autrlan Consulate General titled; Entwlcklungshilfe-Aktuelle Fragen dar Nord -sud Problmatik Today: March 18, 8:00pmLibrary Lounge. Refreshments follow­ing. Attention Sports staff and those wish­ing to join: There will be a MANDATORY meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in the Observer office. Brian-Hey man does Bailey's Irish Cream come out in the wash? I hear the N.D. ballooners are taking recruits. Ryan "spilt cream" Ver Berkmoes VOLUNTEERS NEEDED: 1 [ 2-3 students, 1/2 day, week of March 25-28, help disable person move. 2[ Tutor high school student In Algebra and Trig. 3[ Tutor 10 yr. old In Math. Contact Volunteer Servises 7308 Dunn and Schafer; We'll Account for You! Cher Toots C'etait un beau soir pour l'amour. Avec regret c'etait trop parfait. Non? Lost-Class ring. Engraved MJK '81. If found please call Mike 8436 Lynn R-To Farley's "Sleeping Beauty" -maybe we could talk about Pearl Harbor over a'coke at the Huddle? Rick JOhn, ' the formal was great but next time you either carry me to 0·2 or I get , three desserts. Love. Your Delicate Flower Trish B. Your smile, your hair, all OVNA, MICII Watch me, watch you! Dunn and Schafer; We'll Account for You! Dear Pigsy, Happy (Belated) St. Patrick's day! We miss you. Love, The Buddies  Andy,The Delian requires you to finish your book. The Kingdom of Arc belongs In the Commonwealth. The Oracle at Delphi T. "Whipped" s.. I am repenting. Never again will I be mean. callous. or otherwise degrad­ing to you. Well, at least I'll try, if you don't set yourself up! I think you've captured a real gem in your little "gigolette"! Take good care of hert Your chauffeur Ramon-Gerardo Te felicito por un trabajo bien hecho durante SLF. A.D. JL. No estes tan triste. Las cosas cambiaran. Anne Danny Tarallo. Beware the curse which has been launched over your room due to the utterly untrue title with which I was dubbed last week. You will certainly have to face the music tonight! ( Ah. how prosaic!) The Boss Attention al Board of Trustee Mem­bers-Next time the current University President turns in his bogus annual resignation. accept it! Instead elect the popular alternative: Mary N. Schneider. Mary won't be in Rome visiting, J.P.II with Fritz. She'll be at home in the dome. Paid tor by the Elect Mary Scheider Committee. Ryan Ver Berkmoes co­chairman. SMC SENIORS Remember you can vote: Sweeney McCarthy Stoll Thurs. March 20 LL. THanks for the meat Friday night. 3:45--you broke the record. You kissing machine. FFR. TCh Andy C.. Thanks again for Saturday I Your blind date. THANKS BOBBY! Ken. You are our favorite Advance Man· agerial Accounting teacher! Remem­ber "Do unto others as you would have them do unto you" i.e. can we please have A's? Guess who?  
Karen A. F. (an artist to be) only 60 or so days till graduation. But this is for you: a personal 1 


--------------------------·­
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept 
Need ride to New Orleans for break. 
Call Rick (7695). 
Desperate! need ride to Northern N.J. right off 1-80. Must leave Monday or Tuesday (25th). Share usual. Call Mike at 7289. 
~ 
Need rides for 2 to Indianapolis March. 22 & 24' Kelly 3810 
Need ride to NYC for break. Call Janet [SMC] 4700 
-~-------------­
Two charming, handsome males need ride to Nashville, TN. Over break. Call Kelly 1472 
WaJited ride to East Lansing or Flint Ml for 2 on March 21. Call John 1466 or Tim 1431 
Desperately need ride to Ft. Lauder­dale area for spring break. Will share dri.ving and costs generously. Call Steve (1428.) 

,.
-..... .,.·.:· 
C H ICAG 0 Wednesday Afternoon. the 26, Call 8008 please 1 
------~--------­
Need ride tor two to Indianapolis, Cincinnati, or Oxford, Oh. on Friday, Saturday. or Sunday March 21,22,or 
23. Call Betsy 6359 or Mike 8635. 
For Sale 
Technics 35-watt receiver $140, KLH 300 speakers $80. Call John 1801 
1975 V.W. Beetle like new. radio, defrost. low mileage, regular gas 2900 or best offer call after 7 277-0339 
------~--------­
2 NCAA final-4 b.b. tix for sale Tim 3810 • 
Sony PS-11 00 direct -drive Semi-auto trntble. Greg 1826. 
Spot supports · SMASH! Mr. Hands 
supports Mr. Bill for UMOC 
To: the One and only Hunk from Miami· Happy 20th Birthday!! Love ya, Bucke 
Frances. Have a personal. You'll never know. 
High Dog Boot Hockey League Dinn-er 
Banquet Friday, march 21, 7:00P.M 
American Legion P.ulaski Post. Call 
Perry, Tom, or Nick at 233-5525 for 
Reservations. All fans, players, 
coaches and friends of Mutley the 
Wonderdog are welcome. Dinner tix 
are $6.00 
'fOihe'H~ad'ung;"pariY'';;t~d'On:i­
let last Saturday fool ya! Our parties 
are still the best--Kegger this week­
end, repeat performance. Be there!! 
An Admirer 
Beau ( as in Trish) Have a Happy Birthday, baby poll. 
Bob  Senese where  were  you  at  the  
formal?  
Oom  Vocious.  we  all  love  you  but  

you're so ugly. 
Engaged/married students: Natural Family Planning Class offered on campus March 19th and March 26th · Sign up. TODAY Campus Ministry Office. Memorial Library. 283-6536 
Maria-Happy Belated 20th n . Sorry we missed you on your birthday. 324 McCandless 
Fo, abetter St. Mary's Vote: Sweeney McCarthy Stoll TtlUrs. March 20 
"Tonight Rock with RPM at Vegetable Buddies. Don't miss them " 
George V. 
Shut up! ("It is better to be silent and be thought afool than to open your mouth and remove all doubt") 
Members of Mr. Oevenish's 1:15 TTh !ntro t~ Th~~ r.l~·• 
·rr8Cy(rJ.r--------· 
Happy Aniversaryt I can't believe it's been four years since we first met in a certain French class I Je suis tres, Ires content d'avoir fait ta connais­sance .. 
Je t'aime. ma petite ange. Andy 
: ... ; .. ,·, 

Tuesday, March 18, 1980-page 8 
A season of question marks 
Sometimes, you can make the past -in this instance the just completed~otre Dame hockey season -into the way you wanted it to be by dreaming about all the "what ifs." In some 
Brian 
cases they are valid, most often they're just excuses. I don't know which aJ?plies to this 
Beglane
year's team, but I do know that tf coach Lefty Smith had a dollar for every ''if,'' he'd be able to afford a different pink golf sweater every day of in the last three years was when a wire story
the month. about the program's shaky future was published
What if Dave Poulin, last year's top scorer, had around the country. Not that the team should be not suffered such an injury riddled season? in the national headlines, but the attitude of "no What if)effLogan, John Friedmann, Don Lucia, national tournament, no success" is a short­Scott Cameron, Kevin Humphreys, and Dan sighted one. The WCHA playoffs are the 
Collard had been able to play in a few more national playoffs. Smith's teams have never games? Injuries certainly hurt the Irish. How missed them. much is anybody's guess. Notre Dame bids fareweJl this May to ''five 
And what if t~is season had been free of unique seniors," according to Smith. Right wing 
political battles from the University's admini­and captain Greg Meredith leaves this Universi­stration concerning the program's future? ty with a near 4.0 grade point average in Concern for the individual player's peace of addition to being its leading career goal scorer. 
mind seemed nonexistent. The idea that the He is destined for an NHL contract. 
program could be banished after this season Center Tom Michalek will graduate with a certainly rook its toll on the ice. virtual 4. 0 in electrical engineering after closing 
Add up all these questions and you find no out a career as. one of Notre Dame's top answer. All you know is that Notre Dame playmakers. He will most likely attend graduate
finished fifth in the Western Collegiate Hockey school at MIT. Association and that the Irish were defeated in Center Ted Weltzin will attend medical school their quest for the national tournament. next year after serving as a top center the last 
Those results don't seem very positive, but two seasons. consider the fact that the Irish finished in the Defenseman John Friedmann looks forward to Top 10 in the final NCAA poll. They also made it a career in advertising after a standout career as to the second round of the WCHA playoffs -an Irish skater. He is respected ~ready by many comparable ro making it to the regional finals of professors in the American Studtes department. the NCAA basketball tournament -for the And Matt Dubois, who came out of the second time in their nine -year league history. woodwork to play the last two weeks, will attend Hmmmm, that's nor roo shabby. dental school next season. . 
Things like that however, tend to get over If these five players had competed for the looked because hockey is not a national sport. football or basketball teams at Notre Dame, they You never see a college hockey player on the would have made the national headlines easily. cover of Sports Illustrated or the NCAA hockey Irish football and basketball carries that type of championships grabbing national headlines. influence. But since they played hockey, theyhy john Smith Texas at El Paso and Harvard You probably never will. were overlooked by many and seen only by aSports Wnter both competed. 
In the same way, the hockey program here at few.
Oklahoma won the heat witha 
The Notre Dame 1980 indoor the University gets overlooked. The only time 
a 7:3).2 finish. UTEP finished [continued on page 7)
track season came to a close the team received national attention of any sort this weekend on a somewhat second just ahead of Notre disappointing note. With high Dame. The Irish closed at hopes for his two-mile relay 7:3).9. team coach Joe Piane traveled "We missed qualifying by 
to Detroit for the NCAA Indoor inches," said Piane afterwards, Track Championships. The ·'they only take the top two 
DiSabato sbrilliant career closes 
team of ) ay Miranda, Tim teams from each heat; we were Macauley, Pete Burger, and just unlucky to race in the heat we did." by Btl/ Marquard even materialize. while eclipsing his own pre­Chuck Aragon finished in third viously set marks· for takedowns place in their qualifying heat, Aragon turned in a fine Sports Writer The senior 134-pounder drew and near falls in one year.
thus failing to make the finals. performance, running his leg of number five-seed Mike Bauer Unfortunately for the Irish, the race in 1:51.8. It was a disappointing end to of host Oregon State University "Dave has set a lot of goals the qualifying heat was packed ''Chuck raced very well con­an otherwise illustrious career in his first match, and fought for future Notre Dame wrestlers 
to pursue," offered Sepeta. "I
with talent. The field included sidering the surface. He was for Notre Dame wrestling cap­valiantly before falling 12-1. eventual champion Oklahoma. racing on an old board track, tain Dave DiSabato as his hopes Down only 4-1 going into the don't know if some of those Three teams that made the consequently all the times were for a high finish in the NCAA third and final period, DiSabato records will ever be broken, 
particularly for most wins in a
finals last year also ran; be­slower," concluded Piane. Championships last weekend was overwhelmed by Bauer, sides Notre Dame, University of [continued on page 6) were dashed before they could endin~ his final year of inter­career.'' 
"To set that record, someonecollegtate wrestling with a still­would have to wrestle a lot ofimpressive 31-3 mark. 
matches from their freshman"I just didn't open up enough through senior years --it wouldin that first match," explained ·be qutte a chore."
the Columbus, Ohio native.
Bookstore can 't change rules 
It is also a tribute to DiSabato ''Going into the match I really ro qualify for the Nationalfelt that I had a chance to beat
Ah, <;pring.... 
Championships for three
him, but I just didn't go after 
It brings the start of baseball season, the end straight years, a feat un­
him like I should have.'' 
of hocker season, the middle of the professional Frank "It was a tough way to end a equalled in Irish mat annals. basketball !'Cason (which, by the way, doesn't "I really feel that all of the
career,'' remarked head coach 
really have a beginning or end.) _ LaGrotta Ray Sepeta. "It was roo bad 30-some wrestlers who qualify The ~nuw will soon be melted and if r.ou hated for the Nationals could be called
that Dave had to draw a seeded
rht: stuff.,.. hen it was falling, wait unttl it starts All-Americans," ~aid Sepeta.
wrestler like that in his first 
1o go away. Sloshing through knee-deep perpetuated by Tim Bourret and Leo Latz, the match. ''There is so much pressure at
And the entire tourna­
puddlt.:s and muddy quicksand and cleaning your tournament is going stronger than ever with a the NCAA finals to perform
ment was so unpredictable, that 
shoes every time you walk in the door. Nothing field expanded from 240 to 360 teams last year. was indica­well before such large crowds
Bauer's later loss 
like walking around in sopping wet socks Latz, who is steJ?ping down from the commis­that anyone who makes the
tive of what happened in so 
because the damn puddle didn't look six inches sioner's post thts year (he will serve in an tournament championships has
many weight classes. 
deer. Emeritus capacity) feared that interest in the accomplished a remarkable
Having beaten DiSabato,
And all you north quadders are in for a double tournament would wane or perhaps be destroyed feat."
Bauer (who finished eighth)
bonus as you plot the shortest course around by last year's announcement that the NCAA But for DiSabato, the dis­
advanced to the quarterfinals to 
holes and snow fences that grace the sites where would not permit eligible varsit}: basketball appointment will sting a little
face Derrick Glen of Colorado,
"beautiful" new buildings will soon stand. players to participate. However that was not the btt longer before he can look
who eventually finished third.
Never mind that you can't get to the ones case, as evidenced by the easily enlarged field back fondly on his many ac­
Glen defeated Bauer in that
already standing; hey, Jrogress is progress. and the 3,000 people' who turned out in the rain complishments.
match, and thus DiSabato had
Does anyone really min gomg from Flanner to watch year's final game. the "I really wish I could have
to last Still, no chance of making the conso­
O'Shaughnessy Hall by way of the Grotto? Of exclusion of athletes bothers Latz. pulled it all together for the
lation bracket of the tourney.
course not. ''We immediately appealed to David Berst, Nationals this year. All of the
His career had ended.
But, beyond the serenity and beautiful director of NCAA enforcement, when we heard other milestones and records
Yet DiSabato has enjoyed
settings, spring brings relief to the students of the announcement,'' recalls Latz. ''But he were nice, but my real goal was
quite a stay at Notre Dame. He 
Notre Dame. Seriously folks, how much maintained that it was a violation of an article in to do well in the re~ionals and
retires as the all-time career 
studying gets done when the sun starts shining the constitution prohibiting basketball players national finals," satd the Irish
win leader with 104 victories. 
and the weather warms? There's break to look from competition outside the varsity game." free styler. "I guess I'll get
In the process, DiSabato set 
forward to --graduation for seniors, vacation for And there ha~ been no change in that policy, team marks for most wins in a over it soon and I'll be able to underclassmen ... according to Berst who related by phone from season (31), most tournament look back on the past four years :\nd Bookstore Basketball. Started nine years the NCAA's headquarters in Shawnee Mission, positively --I've got to be
victories in a season (18), and 
satisfied and happy."
ago by Vince Meconi and Fritz Hoefer and [continued on page 7) most consecutive victories (28), 



