
~~~ ~---~ ~ 
, , , Cross country -Page 14 

VOL. XV NO. 27 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 26, 1.980. 

by Kelli Flint Senior Staff Reporter 
The role of the Campus Life Council may be assumed by the newly formed Student Senate, according to Student Body President Paul Riehle. 
The CLC currently has no student members. Riehle, temporary chairman of the CLC, will not call for elections forfositions on the CLC. "The hal vice-presidents and the Hall Presidents Council have not elected members for the CLC," Riehle said. "I am holding back elections to keep the CLC in limbo so that the Student Senate can have the opportunity to assume the role of the CLC in relating student input to the administration." 
According to Riehle, there has been a misconception about the CLC on the part of the student body. "The CLC has been thought to have direct influence over the administra­tion,'' Riehle said. ''Actually, the CLC can only make recom­mendations. I would lose my
Gov. Patnck Lucey (photo by 
credibility as Student BodyJohn Macor). 
President if I continued the 
Student Senate may assume CLC role 
Vice-presidential candidate 
Patrick Lucey arrived in South 
Bend early yesterday, cam­
paining on behalf of the third 
patty, "National Unity Ticket" 
headed by independent Rep. John B. Anderson. 
Lucey spoke to Anderson volunteers in this region's South Bend headquarters, held a press conference afterwards, then proceeded to Washington Hall, where he spoke to a full house of students who cheered vociferously the biting invec­tive he directed at both Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan. 
Lucey's rhetoric, both in South Bend and on campus, presented nothing followers of the Anderson compaign haven't heard many times dur­ing this campaign, although Lucey did comment that he agrees with President Carter's actions (or inactions) during the Iran-Iraq conflict. 
LuceY. said, "I do not believe 
that military for ce would be 
the most productive use of 
American power in this situa­.tion.'' He did blast Carter and his National Security Adviser, 
energy crisis, and the foreign policy disarray we have seen." He added, "Or you can choose Ronald Reagan, and he will lead you galloping into the past. You will have a vast array of 129th century solutions to 20th century problems.'' 
As Anderson's campaign has been doing ever since It became independent of the Republican party, Lucey attempted repeat­edly to emphasize "the Amder­son difference'' between the Illinois congressman and the two major party nominees. 
''Jimmy Caner and Ronald Rea~an both seem to support the 1dea that the United States can and should prepare to fight a limited nuclear war," Lucey said. ''John Anderson regards such an attitude as dangerous and misguided in the extreme .. Jimmy Carter supports draft regisstration of our young peo­ple. John Anderson believes in the volunteer army and strongly opposes draft registration.'' 
Jimmy Carter and Ronald' Rea~an both seem to support
the 1dea that the United States can and should prepare to fight Jimmy Carter and Ronald 
CLC because there has been rampant dissatisfaction with the CLC among the student body." 
R1ehle plans to replace both the CLC and the Board of Commissioners with the Stu­dent Senate. ''This will give more power to the students, who prior to this action have had Jude or no input into the administration," he said. 
Riehle cited several reasons for the failure of the CLC. "Last year the CLC student members wanted to change the bylaws and extend the CLC's term so that the existing prob­lems could be ironed out. Rectors began leaving the meeting because they had other things to do , so the quorum was lost and the motion could not be passed. 
''The students were the only ones interested in the CLC, and there weren't enoulgh of them to make a quorum. There are only nine student members on the CLC, and fourteen of the nineteen CLC members must be present 10 order to have a quorum.'' 

Blasts Carter ,Reagan 
Anderson V.P. speaks to ND 
the rightful occupant ot the cambodian seat at the United Nation. John Amderson thinks such a position flies in the face of our principles and strongly opposes the seating of Pol Pot and His gang of terrorists,"he said. 
Followin~ his speech, Lucey took questions from the audi­ence, including one from a student implying criticism of the Amderson-Lucey stand on abortion. Lucey, a Catholic, responded, "I believe abortion is morally wrong, but I do not believe ... that I can impose my beliefs on other people in this country." Where the question had drawn applause froma a good portion of the audience, Lucey's reply drew an equally enthusiastic cheer from the many Anderson backers in at­tendance. 
Earlier in the morning, at Amderson-Lucey headquarters 
[continued on page 4] 
The CLC, which originated in 1977, replaced the Student Life Council, which was formed in 1968. "The SLC had the power to make decisions con­cerning duLac," Riehle said. ••The SLC was muddled down through bureaucracy. Every­thing that they put forward was shoved aside by the adminis­tration, and nothing ws imple­mented.'' 
Riehle noted that the stu­dents were responsible for the final dissolution of the SLC. ''The students gave up their power to initiate changes in duLac,"Riehle said. SBP Dave Bender relinquished that right during his term in 1977. 
The CLC replaced the SLC in 1977. "The CLC has less power than the SLC had," Riehle said. "There is less concern for the student view­point. The preamble of the CLC constitution states that the CLC has the power to make recommendations for 'hall' life, not student life. The CLC is now an archaic institution. It will never regain its initial power." 
Riehle added that he will not officially disband the CLC. ''I am definitely not calling for elections this year," he said. "I will never call the CLC to order, so that although it will not be disbanded, it will not be in existence either. 
''The CLC can exist without me. The HPC can call for elections. If the students show an interest in reestablishing the CLC, however, I will cooperate with them." 

Students , residents meet on crime issue 
by Sue Kelleher 
At last night's off-<:ampus meetings, Detective Sergeant Adelsperger of the South Bend police force instructed off-campus residents on crime prevention, while students themselves expressed mixed opinions of the efficienc}' of the South Bend police. 
The meeting, organized by off-campus commissioner Mark Kelley, 
was  extremely  informative  but  very  poorly  attended.  Only  20  
students showed, according to Ke lly  
Adelsperger. stated  that  the  crime  rate  in  the  Northeast  

neighborhood has doubled and the police force is severly undermanned. A Northeast resident, the detective urged students to employ the 'buddy system ... keep an eye on your neighbor's house as well as your own.' 
Mrs. Art Quigley, a spokesperson for the Northeast Neighborhood Council reinforced this suggestion, saying, 'We are pleased to have students in the area when the students are active in community affairs and are good neighbors.' 
Adelsperger discussed additional measures students should take, such as mstalling alarm systems,putting locks on windows and doors, marking va!uables and taking note of serial numbers. Above all, he stressed usmg common sense. 
The detective cautioned students against wandering alone in the streets after a night of partying and advised them to be especially careful when admitting guests to parties. He discouraged students from using firearms as a means of protection, stating that the legal consequences can be severe, depending on the weapon used. Firearms often defeat their purpose, as they are a desirable commodity to burglars. 
Though ordinarily a heated topic, last night's discussion was surprisingly mild. When one student described the force as negligent, Detective Adelsper~er's response was 'We're not all perfect. We all make mistakes. 
Senior Steve Hoey, 1121 Corby st.,was robbed on September 3. He told his story, citing several instances of police negligence. 
[continued on page 4] 

===================================

St MarJJ ' 
1 

S nurses receive caps 
by '('.athryn Dale In essence those nursing to their climcal experience, 

Zbigniew Brzezinski, however, for vetoing the proposal of State Department officials to open up communication chan­nels wirh the exiled Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini while he was still in Paris in 1978. It was not Lucey's only dig at Caner. 
The former Wisconsin gover­nor noted sardonically, "'you can choose Jimmy Carter, and you will get exactly what you've been getting for the last three and a half years .... high infla­tion, high unemployment, an Reagan support larger and larger increases for defense spending," 'Iucey continued. "John Anderson supports a 
strong defense but opposes
such unrestrained increases.'' Lucey then referred to one of Carter's most recent dilwmnas, the UN seating of Cambodia. "President Carter says that he supports the principle of human rights in foreign policy • but President Carter is also sup­porting the recognition of the murderous regime of Pol Pot as 
Tomorrow evening at 6:30 in the Church of Loretto, Saint Mary's will hold it6s sixth annual capping of 52 nursing
students. 
Capping, a universal tradi­
tion, has been exercised at Saint Mary's College since Dr. Mary E. Martucci,
1975. 

who is both Chairman and Assiciate Professor of the Nut-sing Department, commented, 
•'Capping signifies an accep­tance of the novice into the profession.'' 
students who' have completed and fulfilled the requirements ,of their freshman and sopho­more studies in a primarily liberal arts curriculum are now entering their actual 'prepara­tion for the nursing profession. Capping is the beginning of their specialization and concen­tration in the field of nursing. 
Students will now spend two and a half days out of every week gaining practical exper­ience in learnin~ labs throu~h­out the commumty. In additiOn students are also required to take several general electives. 

The ceremony con~ists of a m~ss ~nd then the takmg of th~ Ntghtlngale pledge. Thts pledg~ is comparable to a.nd mclus1ve of a code of ethics upheld bY. nurses an~. student 
. nurses alik~. In addltlon, the stud~nts will take part of t.he passmg of the lamp, whtch symbolizes in a spirit~al sense h?w ~he t~sk of servmg man­kmg ts bemg passed on from 

. nurses to stude~ts. 
t 


News Brie/§ 
Friday,5eptember26,19so-page2 
~b~y~T.~n=e~O~h:se:rv=e~r~a=n~d~T.:n=e~A~ss:o:d~at:ed~P=~=ll==~;In~s~i=d~e~~~fl;.d~a=y==::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
Led Zeppelin drummer Bonham dies in England 
The rock world was stunned yesterday with the n.ews of the death of John Bonham,. the drummer of the "heavy metal" group, Led Zeppelin. Bonham was found dead at the home of a fnend in England, a spokesman for Atlantic Records International said. 
The spokesman refused to give the cause fo death and would only say Bonham "died in England." The spokesman refused to give the cause of death and would only say Bonham 
There will be no further statement on the death until completion of an autopsy today, said Mitchell Fox, a senior executive in New York for Swan Song Records} which produces the grouf.'s records. Atlantic distri­butes the Swan song labe . 
Bonham, 32, known by the nickname 'Bonzo' , lived on a farm in Worcestershire, northwest of London. He had been with the group since its formation in 1968. 
Other members of the group are Robert Plant, Jimmy Page and John Paul Jones. The group recently completed a successful European tour after not having performed publicly for some ume. 
A  scheduled  perfprmance  in  Nuremburg,  West  
Germany,  was canceled because of whaG was  called  
Bonham's ''physical exhaustion.''  

The group's latest album, "In Through the Out Door," was released last year. 
Bonham is perhaps best known for his unusual percussion techniques. His drumming comprised the backbone for some of rock's heaviest rhthms and melodious blues. Bonahm's style fluctuated from the surrealistic "'moby Dick" to the mellow "Going to California.'' 'his onstage antics included the discarding of drumsticks in favor of bare-handed solos. Led Z~ppelin was to begin their first U.S. tour in four years thts fall. They were scheduled to appear in Chicago for four shows in November. 
&Jv{ets -U.S. to open talks on nuclear missiles 
Secretary of State Edmund S. Muskie and Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromydo reached agree­ment yesterday to open superpower negotiations for a cutback in nuclear missiles in Europe, Muskie said. But it was not immediately clear whther Muskie got from Gromyko any assurances that the Soviets would try to use their influence to end the spreading war between Iran and Iraq. THe new arms control negotiations are expected to open in mid-October in Geneva. Muskie said there would be an announcement on that subject later. 
Muskie called his meeting with Gromydo, which ran a little more than three hours, "a very frank exchange." In diplomatic parlance, that kind of statement can indicate some serious disagreement. 
Asked whether he had gained Soviet cooperation, Muskie said "We'll have to wait and see what develops." 
Violence strikes Miami 
I 
youths destroy train 

One person was arrested after a crowd of about 50 youths from the Scott Housing Project in Miami's riot-scarred Liberty City stopped a train and broke into a box car, Metro police said. Police spokesman said the group, mostly juveniles, blocked the tracks with debris Wednesday night, forcing a train to stop. The youths then broke into a box car and stole paper towels, car antennas, mirrors, cooking oil, fingernail polish and other household goods, police said.ap 
Carter designates October for country music, lunches 
I 

P_resident Carter, an avid country music fan, destgna~ed O~~ober as Country Music Month, calling the mustc the purest echo of rural America at work to help build the progress and well-being of our land.'' Carter also ursed Americans to observe the week of Oct. 12 as Nauonal School Lunch Week. 

Weather 
Clear and cool today through tomorrow. Highs today in the low to mid 60s. Lows tonight in the low to mid 40s. Highs tomorrow in the low to mid 60s. 
----------'-~------------------­

In the jungles of South Bend 
' 
. For ~he rest of the city, the campus included. tt wa~ JUSt another do-nothing night in the Bend. 
But tn the lounge of the Shang-Hai restaurant on 31, the boys were excited. "We want t---!" the gentlemen would say there is nothing cultural in South Bend, and I for one would take exception. Here was culture at its best so cultural in fact a cultural anthropologist c~uld have had a "field" day with it. This recently developed cultural rite--the wet t-shirt contest-­had arrived here in Middle America and that alone constitutes its validation, having been blessed in the mainstream. 
And they were all there. There were students to be sure, but not many and those who wer~ there were veterans of other, more exotic contests in more exotic places, For tliese chaps the chant "Skin to Wtn" was an incantauo~ given in sacred earnest. 
The local color was there, some with 
girlfriends who jawed an~ jo~~e~ and golly-ge,ed all the way through the resttvtttes, and som,.. of whom took the competition with the deadly seriousness one normally assiciates with 4-H Fair queen contests. The folks from the provinces had come in their pickups, ready for some real good liiks at the slicked-down city bodies. Hell yeah. Woooo hoo! 
And the cops. The cops were there to preserve the fine distinction between bare skin and a wet t-shirt. For my part, I was glad there was an authorized representitive of society protecting the mo_rals ofour society. He was not, evidently, authonzed to bust on the basis os taste. 
For those of you who have never seen a wet t-shirt contest, I tell you they are most edifying. They are somethin~ like a Mtss America contest, only eithout the trrelevent stuff (no one, for instance, asks the young ladies how they feel about Mom and the American Way). There is none of the sultry, den-of-inequity type atmos­phere one not versed in these matters might expect.Instead, ,the atmsphere is more one of gotng through the motions ... hooting here, whistling there, playing the animal role s.ener­ally. The mood among the males is similar to that of the males in the Y anamamo tribe when they beat their chests (and their wives) in the middle of a village street. The distinction, of course, is one of sopohistication: we are civilized, they are barbarians. 
Ah, but the mood among the females of which there were quite a few, was more ingormative. The women could be generally divided into two groups: those who screamed louder than the men, and those who attended but of bemused curiousity. Why the women there were promot­ing this mess is a question one could ask, but the more appropriate question would be ''why was anyone there?'' . 
And why, you may ask, was I there? My sacred duty as a reporter takes me to dangerous, mysterious places. Darel question duty?When I was told that I'd be covering savages making sacrifices out of one of their own, I naturallly prepared myself for the jungles. 

The_Ohs.erY-er 
Design Editor: Margy Kruse 
Assistant Design Editors: 
an 
MaryDu.ntmSteve O'Brien 
News Eattor: Margie Brassil 

m1n1Stry'
Features Layout: Molly Woulfe 
5:15p.m. Saturday
Editorial Layout: Mike 
9:00 a.m. Sunday
Onufrak 
10:30 a.m. Sunday
Sports Layout; Beth Huffman 
12:15 p.m. Sunday 
ND day Editor:Ryan Ver 
7:15 p.m. Vespers
Bermoes Typists: Linda Hewitt, Kathy 
I 

Mark Rust 
Managing Editor 


But t~e S~ang Hai is not a jungle; except on wet t-shtrt mght. Unless you've been there since 8:30, be prepared to stand and fend for your drink. 
And be prepared to be assaulted by an emcee who,. were. he no~ so offe~sive, might be descnbed st;"?ply a stmpleton. OK you animals, calm down, he chattered to animals who were already "calm." When the women arrived from the pool he simply chewed his gum and growled into the microphone. "Contestant number one: Mary! ... " . 
.No":' there is something embarrassing about watchmg another human embarrassed. She walded across the room, her gait best described as the graceful slink of a model doing her best under uncertain conditions. Her eyes, in trying to avert those of the crowd, glanced toward the ground, down the bridge of her nose, across her chin, and on to... 
She ended up dinding the eyes of the crowd preferable. 
Contestants two, three and four paraded in front of the hooting crowd in similar fashion. After each entered the room the crowd clapped 
· and yelled. The red-faced winner, contestant number three, had ex_Pected $50 and a trip to Florida to participate 1n yet another wet t-shirt competition. Instead she got $100 and no trip; business, it seems, was so good that sponsors decided to continue the contest indefinately-­much to the apparent relief of contestant in these/arts.
An who ever said there was nothing to do on a Tuesday night in the Bend? 


SUNDAY MASSES 

CC!II)PUS AT SACRED HEART CHURCH 
Rev. Robert Griffin, c.s.c. Rev. John Fitzgerald, c.s.c. Rev. Patrick Maloney, c.s.c. Rev. William Toohey, c.s.c. 
Rev. Patrick Maloney, c.s.c. 

O'Dell, K. Murray, K. Bergare, Marilyn Broderick, Suzy Sulentic 
Ads: M.A.K. Photographer:Beth Prezio Guest Apperances: Scoop, Keenan Cavemen Brian, 
Steve 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved. 


----------------~-.------.-------------------~--~------------------------------------------------­

Friday, .September 26, 1980 ·page 3 


SMC,ND exchange creates enjoyable social atmosphere 
causes shuttle problems. We wish more people would avail themselves Of the opportunity to take classes at Notre Dame and often suggest that a student take :two classes at ND as long as she's already on campus," Ken­
nedy commented. 
Kathi Zurkowski, a SMC junior majoring in both English and Education, enrolled in an ND class ''to get a taste of the Notre Dame English department... More emphasis is placed on lecture-oriented classes than at St. Mary's, but I feel the academic demands of both de­partments ace pretty similar,'' Zuckowski said. 
Prices Good . While Supply Lasts 
BLATZ 
L


BEER 
24-12 OZ, N/R Bottles 
0 

$5.99 
c 
LE 


OOMAINE 
I 


WINE 
in liter cask 


Burgundy . Chablis · Rose -Rhine 


$5.99 

L

MARTINI & ROSSI 
I

Ast; 
Sournante 75o rnr 
$7.99 
KAMCHATKA VODKA 
80 Proof 1 liter 



$4.49 
HIRAM WALKER 

S hPeopermint 
0

c nopps 1 Liter 
$4.99 
R L

OLD KENTUCKY 
I



TAVERN 
Premium BourbOn 1 Liter 

$5.59 
2128 South Bend Ave. Phone: 277-3611 NO Party 
CommissiotJer Marl KeUy trMJges •P LIIForlll.e stairs Ia the Off CampiiS fiU!etitJg. See page J.(Photo by Linda Shancha) 
OISA offers language course 
The English as a Second day night at the same time in 
by Mary Agnes Carey 
for many of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students parti­cipating in the co-exchange class program, taking a course at another institution is a refresh­ing experience. 
Notre Dame senior Vince Bock took class at SMC for ''a change of environment." . According to Bock, the shuttle service does "a good job, but I usually walk to class." I enjoy the course material and I'm learning a lot from the class. The St. Mary's campus is a different setting," Bock said. 
SMC junior Kathy Cahill has taken a course at ND every semester since her spring se­mester freshman year. "Al­though I was asked to take a course in human relations (only offered at Notre Dame) to ac­company my resident advisor training, I also enjoy the change in atmOSphere," she stated. 
.Accordina; to ND Registrac Rick Sullivan, the program bepn in 1964 and student pactictpation peaked in the early 1970's. 
" there is an lfficial limit of 3,000 credit hours per institution, student participation in the program has stabilized at 1500 credit hours. Saint Mary's student can register for any course at Notre Dame unless the class is already closed to Notre Dame students outside the de­P.actment offering the course, or ifthe student does not fulfill the prerequisites for the course," Sullivan explained. 
Sister Francesca Kennedy, Saint Mary's registrar, stated that ND students currently take 1500 credit hours at St. Mary's and that any coursed ace open to ND students UC'Jess the courses ace {lreviously closed by majors within the department. 
"St. Mary's students may take an unlimited amount of electives at Notre Dame, but must flrst check with their advisor to make sure they have fulfilled their core requirements,'' Kennedy said. 
"We don't, however, encour­age students to take consecutive courses on different campuses (for example, one course at SMC immediately followed by a class at because that usually 

Language course offered by the Office of International Student Affairs is holding its first session this Monday, Sept. 29,  room 107 O'Shaughnessy. If you ace interested and have not yet signed up, please register m the Office of International  ,  
at 6:30p.m. The course will be  Student Affairs  in  the  Base­ 
given each Monday and Thurs­ ment of LaFortune.  







dukE 
Graduate School of Business Administration 
A representative ofthe GraduateSchool of Business Administration wl beon Campus Monday, October6, 
to discuss the Duke MBA Program. Interested students mayobtain further nformation bycontacting the Placement Office. 1 
of Albums' Why pay 

$1.00 OFFI 
any regular album or tape 
purchase with this coupon. 
LimH 1 per person. Expires 
. Ocl15 1980 
;.It ~ » 
...~.., 15% Discount ~ toall N.D.-, S.M.C. 
JEWELERS 

Students 
SINCE 1917


FOX'S 
DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 

University Park Mall and Town and Country­Mishawaka 
In-the-round With a Revolving Stage. 
I. OCT. 1 0 8:30 PM N 0 A. C.

•T..~un•" all seats reserved-Excellent seats ore still 
AC,C. box office and River City Records. For further Info .. call 50970 u.s 31 North. 


---------~------------~--------------------------~-------------------~------------------~------­
Friday, .September 26, 1980 -page 4 
• • .Anderson V.P. 
primaries, said he has no Reagan's gaffes about China
{contt'nued from page 1} 

qualms with Anderson's 317 and Vietnam, and when I know on LaSalle Street, Lucey re­page platform, thou~h he con­first hand of the indignities minded volunteers that "all we! ceded differences wtth Amder­suffered by Fritz Mondale at have to get is 40 percent of the son over the National Health the hands of the Georgians, I vote" in this state, as long as Insurance plan which both can say without contradiction 
Reagan and Carter split the Lucey and Kennedy espouse. that I'm the most comfortable." remaining 60 percent, "so Lucey added, "I'm the most Following his Washington comfortable of the three vice­
were in a do-able situation." Hall appearance, Lucey con­
presidential candidates. When I ferred with University Pres­In his press conference, look at George Bush, with his ident .Fr. Theodore HesburghLucey remarked that Sunday's face like this (forms clownish over the problem of illegaldebate with Reagan was ''the 
frown) while he listens to aliens.
first time that many Americans could view John anderson," and he added that a "tremen­dous" crowd greeted the two men in Chicago earlier this 
• • .Crime
week, and Anderson's press entourage had doubled. Cur­
[continued from page 1)

iously, no national press has been assigned to follow Lucey. In reference to Hoey's tale, Art Quigfey of the Northeast Lucey also commented that Neighborhood Center, encouraged students to call the center to relay 
·an Anderson victory would not feedb~ck--g~ or bad--about police. . . mean the demise of the two­J uruor Liz 0 Hara had nothing but good things to say about the party system, but would instead police. She and her roommate were robbed last year while living at serve to put ''the manipulators Notre Dame Apartments. O'Hara commended police on their of both parties on notice that id performance, stressing that 'they were there right away', and that if they don't do a better job, the goods were returned. they will again face an indepen­Radio Shack employee and Notre Dame graduate Brian Gaffney dent challenge." Lucey, who was on hand to demonstrate a magnetic alarm system which deters joined anderson after serving as intruders and alerts neighbors. The system, which retails for $99.95 Deputy Campaign Manager to at Radio Shack, can be discounted ifpurchased in large quantities, Edward M Kennedy in the Gaffney said. 
J~e f1Ulsl< wl«cf.t_ a1t atb~t-wtar;:, in 4pl' 1D &amte luh Ia«~ lL\ro 
1HE~f\ft1C.. 
The Speech SCommunication Dept. Presents: 

Andre~nt"s 
~LWlo~s~ .1ke ~~~-the 1'100-81 
Sept~ -Oct~ l-, 3, 4 

:oo -11ci<ETS z.64-fll&, 
.~
.~·.lr 





-ItS for 
If you haven't yet con­sidered a career in the communications industry, pause

,YOU! 
J 
a moment and reflect on the world's dependency on communications. Then consider the major role communications will play in the era of the Informational Society we are now entering. Then welcome 
the opportunity to be a part of the future ...today, with some 4,200
... 
••• t 

other employees of 
.. • ... 1o
.......
. . .·.... 

UNITED TELEPHONE COMPANY DF CHID
• • .. ,.,..,. nf '"' ,,.,11, net•"""'' 
SY~Tt .. 

'~If • 
'""' io comm,oic•tio•< '"'""" YD"· cootoct yo"' Ploce· ment Office for information on our recruiting dates or send your resume to: Personnel Department. United Telephone Company 
of Ohio. 665 Lexington Avenue. Mansfield. Ohio 44907 . 
• 
.:­

Fr. Ted Hesburgh listens intently to Vice Preszdential candidate Patn"ck. Lucey in Washington Hall yesterday. 
PHOT..O BY John Macor) 

Quad hosts block bash 
-

president Maureen Mara and
by Mike 0 'Brien \ 

Cavanaugh Hall executive Tom Ahearn, who presented the idea 
Several hall presidents, in so­to the HPC and eventually the operation with the Student Student Union. Union, J.>lan tonight to tempora­Coppolla said the only events rily qutet student complaints simdar to the block parry which about problems with ND social he has heard of occurred several. 
space by sta~ing a block bash in years ago on the bookstore the Universtry's largest parry basketball courts. room ... the North Quad . The cost of the affair, estimated 
The parry, scheduled to befin at by Coppolla at about $900, will 9 p. IIi. , will feature free hotdogs, be patd by the Student Union soda, munchies, music, and dan­and the ten NOrth Quad dorms cing, and admission is free. who are its co-sponsors. Hall 
Student Union Director Rich volunteers will also perform Coppolla reported that the parry clean-up chores at the event's 1 was the bramchild of Lewis Hall a.m. completion. 




vice-presidential debate tenta­tively set for Louisville, Ky., next Thursday. She said invi­tations were extended to Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Republican vice presidential nominee George Bush and Anderson's running mate, for­mer Wisconsin Gov. Patrick hoping the new arrangement will not be rejected. 

She. also, ~aid Carter's repre­sentatives were not negauve'' when approached with the idea, butthattheleague,butthatthe league had received no formal answers from any of the can­didates. 
first a Reagan/Carter affair the week of Oct. 12, and then a three-way encounter to include Anderson during the week of Oct.26. 
Ruth Hinerfeld, president of the League, said the compro­mise was being offered in an effort to provide the American 

Asked when a decision might be forthcoming, he replied, ''THAT WOUlD HAVE TO COME FROM THE OTHER SIDE." 
Anderson spokesman Michael Rosenbaum said, "We are disappointed that the League changed its position 


to debate 
•

tssues 
'Sit Down 36' opens tonight 
"Sit-Down '36", a documen­tary play by Miles Coiner focusing on the 1936 Bendix sit down strike, will open tonight, Sept. 26, at 7:00 p.m. in the Bendix Theatre, Century Cen­ter. Victor Reuther, UAW organizer will speak following the play at 8:30. Music will be provided by the Tar Bottom Band. Admission is free. 
"The Union Makers", a pho­
tographic exhibition by Mark 
A. Kelly which depicts the history of the local labor move­mem, will be displayed in Discovery Hall, Century Center through Sept. 30. 
This will be the final showing 
of the play which was also 
performed on Labor Day this 
year. 
The play is sronsored by the 
Michiana Ora Labor Htstory 
Project at Indiana University at 
South Bend. Additional funds 
came from the Indiana Com­
mittee for the Humanities and 
the National Endowment for . 
the Humanities. 
For more information, contact Prof. Janet Weaver at the IUSB Hist.ory Department or · Call Mananne Murphy at 234-0314. 

SMC receives check for library 
Saint Mary's President John M. Duggan received a check on Wednesday for $5.5 million from Philip J. Faccenda, chairman of the Indiana Educational Facili­ties Authority. The money, generated from the sale of bonds, will be used to finance the construction fo the College's new library. 
The bonds, given an AA rating by Moody's Investors Service, were purchased by the under­writing comrany John Nuveen and Co. o Chicago. Also included as participants in the purchase were Traub and Co., andCity Securities Corporation. College fundraising efforts are well underway, and the monies generated will be used to retire the bonds. · 
Groundbreak.ing ceremonies for the library will be held on Frida}' October 17 at 11 a.m. and will coincide with the College's fall meeting of the Board of Regents. 
-·~ j 

---~--------~~-----~---­

Features Friday ,September 26, 1980 -page 6 
Masking Fears in 'He Who Gets Slapped' 
of the 

fadin~~~! S!o~~
· Well we all have a face 
becomes more popular. Tilly
That we hide away forever 
leen Maccio), Polly (Regina Pratt)
And we take them out and 
and Silly (Mary Link) are the
Show ourselves 
adorable, witty musical clowns.
When everyone has gone 
They perform a satire on everyone
Billy Joel, The Stranger 
and everything, constantly trying to make the fantasy ofthe circus work. 
The usher invites the audience to This fascinating mirage of charactersjoin us behind the mask and thus is topped off with the frantic, yetopens the 1980-81 ND/SMC Theatre Iovin~ director of the circus, the hard season. Our first major production drinking, hard talking Mama Briquet 
He Who Gets Slapped by Leonid 
(Adri Tri~iani).

Andreyev, opens tonight at 0'­~~-_Regmald ~ai~ direct~ the play Laughlin Audttorium. The audience -utilizmg a culmmatton of his theatri­will become a part of the production cal talents. Though a graduate ofin that everyone already belongs to Notre Dame, the University ofthe circus. 
Arizona (MA), and the Universtty of
He Who Gets Slapped is about a 
Minnesota (Phd.), his directing wascircus, figuratively and literally. The most influenced by Tyrone Guthrey, characters are members of a circus founder of the famed Guthreywho are just that because they find it Theatre. He went on to teach ata secure microcosm of the real Regis College in Colorado andworld. Their masks allow them to eventually returned to Notre Damedeal with the real world as them­in 1966 with his wife Georgia, aselves via their circus character. 
graduate ofSaint Mary's. He beganAndreyev caJ?tures this motif and teaching here that same year, whichprovides us wtth a picture of what was the ftrst year of the Cooperative we, in essence are-actors. The S~ and Drama Dept. He prefersplay itself is symbolic, grasping a and embodies the innocence that directing new plays (Fellows '74,
certain grotesqueness present within The play is enhanced by others who 
"He" is searching for. Consuelo 
]tulith Christ'72 and last year's The
the relations between human beings means "consolation", and she is just fear for Consuelo and themselves. Pilgrim) that meld the audience and that cause us to hide behind the that for everyone in the circus. Alfred Bezano (fim Grothaus). stage into an experience. Surely Hemask. 
Protected and loved by all she Consuelo's trainer, is naturally vul­
Wlio Gets Slapped is a play in which 
WHO/SHE? 
nerable yet fmds his strength

captures the heart of "He". H~r. the actors and audience share no
''He'' played by]ohn Davenport, is supposed mother, Countess Manctru · throuBh her. Zinida (Rachael Patter­difference. As human beings we are
tired of the J?honiness and back-stab­son) ts the wild, exotic lion tamer
(Sue Groeschel) wants to leave t~s all caught in a frustrating world from bing that extsts in the real world and "circus" life and fmd her place to searching for someone to open up which we need to escape and that is thus he sets out to find a child's her own facet of vulnerability, yet no 
high society. She uses Consuelo ~ a why you are invited to join us behindworld, simple and innocent. "He" tool by foong an engagement wtth one can except her lions. Jim the mask. 
finds the circus and becomes the the Baron Regnard Ooe O'Brien) a ] ackson 0effMousseau) is the down 
Anne Slowey, a jtlnior at Notre
clown "who gets slapped". Con­of clowns. He becomes "He's"billionaire, hated by all in the circus 
Dame, is active in the Commun­
suelo (Eileen Durkin) is the star of 
because he comes from the ''real mentor and soon finds "He's" 
U,a*;:;~s and Theater Department. 
the circus. She is beautiful, talented world." gimmick forcing him into a position 
REEL REVIEWS 
'An 



'Bodyguard' a Hit 

Ryan VerBerkmoes 




I 
~ 
I 
t 
l 
city 

-September my -house' was burglaria:ed. Yesterday·-I got 30d ~ppQitltment to see Mayor Parent saying I was on the ,National Mayoral. 
Award Committee.  he found  
"C)Ut l was real!"  4iscuss the  
.  Pff<arnpusq:~¢'.$  ..·.. ·····hesaidh¢'  
~1 <w()uld'not. speak ...  ..··  ,m,.e~  l. ~e  

angry and sc:,ute(;l shoqqng~ ~e wd. .. Please. This type of sitUation does not call for an emotional response." . Then he thtew me out, 
My Bodyguard produced by Notre 
Dame graduate Tony Bill, concerns a 
school sophomore who decides to 
attend a public school after a life in 
private academies (imagine that!). 
His first day gets off on the wrong 
foot when he publicly humiliates the 
school bully (actually thug is a better 
word). This vicious character is 
extoning the weak second social tier 
types from their lunch money. 
Our hero takes exeption to this basic form of free enterprise, and sets out to hire a bodyguard to protect him from the racket. 
Chris Makepeace stars as the ftlms 
central character, a youth by the 
name of Clifford Peache. Chris 
starred in last years fluffy 'Meat­
balls''. His role here gives him a 
chance to demonstrate his ample 
talents. He is perfect as one of those 
nondescript average mionions that 
papulate most high schools. The lcind 
that grow into insurance salesmen. 
Martin Mull repeats his role as a 
harried, middle class worker (first 
seen in last springs "Serial"--a film 
near and dear to my heart and home). 
As Mr. Peache Mull manages a 
hotel with a multitude of problems, 
including atmutinous aid, (greasily 
played by Craig Richard Nelson_ ), 
with little patience for the pecking 
order. One of Mull's major problems 
is his flinatous live in mother. Who 
else but Ruth Gordon could portray 
an elderly lush. Gordon's reputation 
as an actress is untouchable, as a 
creative force she's like a runaway truck--awe inspiring yet a bit hard to control. Her one flaw as the elder Peache, is her pention for serving liver for 

breakfast--event that's grounds for suicide. 
The title character is played by an 
unknown from New irier High in 
Winnetka, Illinois (who's alumni 
include Bruce Dem, Ann Margaret 
and Charlton Heston), named Adam 
Baldwin. His characterization of the 
mysterious, lumbering, Ilnderman is 
right on target. Ilnderman is an 
extremely large withdrawn lad, who 
has an obscure dark past. Thinking 
he's an ax murderer or worse, he is 
feared by the rest of the student 
bo<ly-even the villilanous thugs. 
The extortionists Kingpin is an 
obnoxious, conftdent twerp with a 
face familar to pint-sized adolescent 
fe--: -':,·-_:verywheie.Aiready a staple 
ingredient of such literary triumphs 
as "Tiger Beat" and "16". ­
The film doesn't just deliver a chronicle of the little guy fighting back, it explores human relationships at a level usually untouched by modem film. The youn~ Peaches efforts to break through Linderman's hulkin~ exterior, and the eventual revelatton of his turmoil within are particularily moving. 
Special mention must be made of Director Tony Bill's effons. He moves the ftlm at a brisk pace that still, captures the true feeling oflife's vuances and quirks. He brings forth superior performances, and sets and unpretentous tone. ­
Overall, My Bodyguarddoes some­thing thats unusual these days, it tells a story devoid of stellar effects and multi-car crashes, and suceeds brilliantly. This lcind of film deserves su_Ppon to drive home to the enter­~ent czars the message of qual­
tty. 





Features 
Friday, September 26, 1980 -page 7 
LEITERSTO A LONELYGOD 
The Girl He Left Behind Him 
Rev. Robert Griffin 


She was lovely as the early buds on the rose are lovely. He was a young dreamer with a head full of thoughts that come from books, poems, and philosophies read in the General Program. It was their first date; possibly their only date, since she was only in town for the weekend. The evening would be remembered with happiness, like a gift when it isn't your birthday. They spoke with hope of the lives that awaited them, and they became intimate in the thoughts they shared. 
Of the two, she was the more practical: she would learn languages, and work for the airlines or travel agencies. He would write plays, and see them acted upon the stage; but first he needed to read sreat litera­ture as an apprenticeship he must serve before attempting to create works of truth and deathless beauty. 
"You know," he said, "I never know whether to mention it, when I'm dating a girl, but it only seems fair to do so. 
She felt she was being prepared to hear news she was afraid would hurt. She held her breath in spontaneous defense, expecting him to say that he was married, or turning ~ay, or the orphan of unmarried Nazis. 
"Well," he said, "ever since I was alittle kid, I've thought about be­coming a priest. I'm still thinking about becoming a priest, though I haven't really decided. I think telling a girl what I'm thinking is only fair, only I'm never sure that a girl wants to hear it." 
Only a dreamer would have not 
been embarrassed. The words­
seemed so much to sar: "Don't toucn 
me, please." A gir could feel so 
helplessly outrivalled, held at an 
arm's length until decisions were 
made in which heaven must concur. 
"I really think," she said, "you 
should tell a gir)." A dreamer, intent 
on being honest, would never notice 
if the moonlight had dimmed in its 
relevance to the evening, or if a star, 
hiding behind night, had diminished 
the infinitude of a glorious sky. 
He was not an untouchable. He 
needed to be touched. Whatever 
renunciations of touching he would 
later choose, he needed closeness 
and tenderness ministered to him as 
a sacrament gracing the aloneness of 
his being human and very young. 
Love, if it is perfect, is a discipline of 
passion; but passion has its rights, at 
least to the innocence of uncondi­
tional liking. 

It was their first date; and he was being lovably honest. She agreed he was right to tell a girl. But after­wards, the night had to carry luggage it did not need. Solemnities could come between them, making them shy. Embarrassment was what he might have given her in place of dreams, if he stroked her cheek, or spoke of love. 
She said: "If you become a priest, you'II have to live by yourself.'' 
"I would miss being married and having kids," he said, "but a priest has lots of people to love.'' 
"Oh sure " she said, 1'Nephews and nieces, and folks like that." He realized she was close to crymg, 
though he didn't know why. She 
couldn't say it was because she was 
feeling sorry for him. 
He put his arms around her. 
"Don't cry," he said. He hugged her 
gently. "I used to do that for my little 
sisters," he said. "They were always 
needing hugs." 
She cried some more, and he 
hugged some more; and finally, he 
kissed her. He kissed her first as a 
brother would, and then as a young 
man might kiss who is neither 
brotherins nor philandering. 
This inumacy, she decided was not 
where the conversation had been 
leading them; anyway, it was a frrst 
date, and she was a careful young 
person with dreams of her own. 
"The moon," she said, "is watch­
ing,'' as though some lunar serenity 
were being disturbed, and messages 
might be sent to the distant Pope. 
"Listen," he said, embarrassed by feelings he felt inappropriate, "I shouldn't have done that." 
"Don-'t let it worry you," she said. 
"I've been thinking about it for a long time," he said. " I want to be a priest." 
'Tin glad you told me," she said. "It's been my dream since I was five years old," he said. "Dreams are nice," she said. "Everyone should have one." 
He was a dreamer, and his thoughts were full of poetry and the truths of philosophers. Truth comes clearest when we love the strongest; and briefly that evening he had come close to a love he was almost afraid of, seeing it as a threat to the contract he wished to make with the gods. When he was fifty, remembering the moonlight on a girl's face, he would wish he was twenty again, when he had stood very close to a beauty too real to need the evidences of fauh. 

''You're a wondecful girl,'' he said. "I'll remember this night. I'll keep the memory of you beside me like an overstuffed toy. At ni~ht, I'II put it on the pillow, and it will help my sleep." 
"Will they let you do that ? " she asked. "I won't tell them," he said. "It isn't anything they can see." ."Wouldn't you feel guilty?" she said. , 
. "Every guy who goes to the sem gives up someone," he said. "I can give up you. '' 
"I should feel very honored," she said, "being the person you give up. It's just too bad you haven't known me longer.'' 
"I've known you long enough, he said. ''An evening is all I need.'' 
Everyone needs more than an evenins, but for him his imagination made It true. He will make that rveaing last for a lifetime by a 
. miracle like the multiplication of loaves. In his mind, he has created an epic romance about the girl he left behind him. Ministries are some­times established on our memories of the girls we leave behind us. If his pre-Cana conferences resemble ex­cursions into light fiction, nobody complains, because everyone knows he's a dreamer. 
Urban Plunge '80; Examining Images 
The American city-the ima~es provoked by this phrase insprre reams of literature and a multitude of pictures, dreams and myths, both negative and positive. Everything about the city seems exaggerated, larger than life. There's usually no middle ground. Either the city is an endless line of bombed-out build­ings, grim housing project;; filled with even grimmer people, and muggings on every street corner, or it is tall glittering buildings, enor­mous department stores and the­aters, a place of opportunity where the poor country boy makes it big. 
Urban Plunge is a forty-eight hour experiment which tries to examine these images, to discover the truth behind the American city. Spon­sored by the Center for Experiential Learning and the ND/SMC Theology and Rehgious Studies departments, this one credit course makes no claims about answering questions or solving problems. F~r, as on.e plunger states, "Forty-eight hours IS most certainly not a long period of time when one is confronted with a novel situation.'' Most ex-plungers found this true as the inner city setting was an area largely unknown to them except through sociology texts and their car windows when driving back home. The other 
common denominator is the Catholic 
Committee on Urban Ministry 
(CCUM) contact. From there each 
plunge varies since each city has its 
own problems, peoples, and 
strengths, and each CCUM contact 
their own way of exploring the 
American city. 

In Seattle, Washington, the plun­gers didn't simply tour jails, courts, and flop-houses, but hved there. Their contacts felt that "it would never have left us with such a powerful impact. That (tours) would be like looking in a fishbowl and observing ... "tsk, tsk, it must be awful." The only way one can know how awful, how painful it is, is to live that life, even if it is only for 48 hours.'' 
The whole world can become topsy­turvy during the plunge; cherished notions on social and urban improve­ment seen from this perspective reveal flaws or unexpected strengths. One Boston plunger had felt that "bandaid" programs (those which simply address a basic need but are unable to improve the situation) were inadequate. She chan~ed her mind after visiting "Rosie's Place," a small somewhat shabby house that was converted to a place offering free dinners to any 'street women' who wandered in, and a bed to the first 50 women ... the 
women who come in from the street are neither questioned nor reformed. Rosie's Place offers temporary shel­ter, a well balanced meal. and companionship. It does not offer any remedy. The goals ... are to give th~se womt;n a. sense of dignity and pnde. Th1s...Is a "bandaid". It acknowledges and protects but does not cure ... Rosie's Place gives some­thing far more important than equal­ity. It gives pride." 
Urban renewal was a concept dear to many originally. However, as a Detroit group· learned, the obvious benefits camouflage many losses. Although many neighborhoods de­stroyed to make way for new buildings are run down, they are, nevertheless, homes for people. Displaced, these people jom others who've lost their homes because young suburbanites, buying and rebuilding old houses, have driven up the rents astronomically. How to achieve a balance between renova­ting the decaying inner city and allowing those who live there to keep their homes is an important idea explored in this plunge. 
Fmally, no matter which city, the plunge brings it alive through meet­mgs with "street people", city officials, social workers and church people committed to justice. Here is 

Kathryn Taglia 
where most llungers' imaginings are shattere -for the better. "Father Connolly (the S. Bronx CCUM contact) said that in addition to all the harsh realities we would be seeing ... he wished that we would also see the hope that he felt was so abundant there. The optimism. The enthusiasm. But most of all the hope. Though we were all quite polite and didn't say anything, I believe we were rather skeptical 
. about seeing any such hope .. .I 
· expected the dime, dn.. gs, buildings etc. and they were all there. What I didn't expect was Fr.. Connolly's hope. But it was there. Perhaps not as visible as the probk ns, but no less real:" 
Forty-eight hours is not a long time. Some believe Urban Plunge, a farce, only skimming the surface. (Yet nobody complains that a course can't explain history because it doesn't last three hundred years.) Those who've been feel It is a positive way for ND/SMC students to explore and learn about the 
.. American city. As one ex-J;>Iunger wrote, "Any positive acuon no matter how small it may be is a correct answer. ' ' 
Kathryn Taglia. is a Notre Pame senior from St. joseph's, Missoun· 

l 
l 
l ~ 





Editorials 
Friday,.September 26, 1980 -page 8 
P.O. Box 

Good luck, seniors, I hope that mistake since his "specialty" ' building, an overwhelming "the most hated dorm onNo satisfaction in from now on we get the treatment is sports writing. But judging eyesore, dominates the site like campus", few darners will that we deserve and are able to from the rest of the article one an oil tanker on North Quad. It deny that we are the most
SMCsenior section actually watch the few games that must wonder about his know-fails to blend in or harmonize spirited hall at Notre Dame. Dear Editor, · remain in our college career. ledge of sports, specifically with the surrounding struc-As freshmen, we have been Here we are in the midst of another college football. LaGrotta pre-tures, or with any other build-here less than a month, yet we 
Ann Monaghan 
sents a very one-sided v.iew of ing on campus for that matter. are proud to be called Dillon­football season, with all of its ex­

Pitt's schedule. While listing Father Sorm would roll over in ites and be members of Dil­citement and color, right? 
such opponents as Temple, his grave if he knew about the Ion's 50th class! We take pride Well, I really wouldn't know. The Syracuse, and West Virginia, defacing architecture that his in Dillon as we do in Notre
last two games, I have been unable to LaGrotta blind to 
he failed to mention such university so readily finances. Dame.
get a seat, even though I have my 
strong opponents as Florida · The university does not con-The Dillon frosh were re­ticket, which tells me that I have paid State (ranked 9th nationally), done abortion, but in the case quested to dress up in Romangood money for a seat in the senior Oaklandcultural Penn State (11th), Maryland of Stepan Chemistry Hall, it "togas" ala Animal House.
section. Sure, the guard could have (19th) and Tennessee. Even should make awn exception. We marched in large numbers, forced someone out so I could cram 
charms the ''weaker'' teams such as Halt construction and have this chanting the Dillon fight songin the row, but I don't want to make Boston College and Syracuse mess torn down before its too and everyone had a great time.
enemies -I just want to watch the 
have already proven them-late. The building may have a However, when we were asked game. Dear Editor, ~0 selves as formidable oppo-detrimenta! effect on _the c~m-to leave the stage we quicklyWe are writing in regards nents. Stanford and Ohio State pus, shocking and fngh~e~mg complied.
When I approached the guards, 
an article which appeared m may not consider them as weak mnocent passerby and _vlsltc;>rs The intense rivalry between and ultimately Anthony Kovatch, the September 24 edition of the as Frank obviously does. to campus. If the umverslty Dillon and Alumm is well the director of security at Saint Observer. The article entitled Thus, once agam Frank La-proceeds with construction, known, and in the traditional Mary's,all they could tell me was ''Easy Schedule P~omotes Grotta has proven his iricompe-students and professors should manner we initiated the famll­that there was nothing that could be Pitt's Rank" was wntten by tence as an objective sports boycott the building and con-iarchant, "Alumni s----" done, except to walk up and bodily Frank LaGrotta. In this article, writer; this time showing his duct classes elsewhere. (Many The chorus was quickly picked extricate someone from my seat Frank LaGrotta states that the inadequacy on a subject and a would-be chemists will probab-up by much of the crowd. 
University of Pittsburgh "lies city he professes to know so ly _be. too scared to enter the When the various speakers
Ironic, isn't it, that the aisle 
in the grimy litt~e su~urb well. butldmg). came on stage we were spiritedbetween sections 28 (my section) of Oakland, which migHt Michael Coyne In the future, someone else and responsive. In fact, some 
and 27 (alumni) was closely guarded 
as·well be miles away from the Patn'ck Kyne should be consulted on a choose to join in our antics. by two guards who had positoned heart of the city·'' With a bu!ldins d~sign, before the Most of the students presentthemselves at row 30, and were statement like this, LaGrotta umvers1ty g1ves the approval to recognized that it was all done 
checking everyone's ticket. Yet in Proves once again that he does · d fu d · h · · f 
not know what he is talking St • · waste millions of dollars. A m goo n an m t e spmt 0the aisle between sections 28 and epptn tntO ame_SS l f h h' our long rivalry. The crowd
29, no effort was made to find out about. pane 0 sop omore arc Itec-seemed to be tur.ned on by our who really belonged in the section. First of all, geographically, s I ture stude~ts could probably actions (as they had been a And in an area which is supposedly Oakland is more the city center at tepan . . come up With ~ better' m~re Iweek earlier at the Polish 
of Pittsburgh than the down-~armomous des1gn for a budd-Wedding).
all seniors, it was amazing how 
many juniors and sophomores I town area. As for Oakland Dear Editor, mg. (And for a lot 1ess A freshman entering a new being a "grimy little suburb" As I made my way from the money). AI. S. . school has many adjustments
recognized. 

well Frank, yo~ are. wro~g Huddle to the library the other ex everzno to make. New classes, newI have three comments to make: 
again and it ls wuh this day, I was visually assaulted by friends, and a new way of lifeFirst, to those students who state~ent that we who live in the unsightly brick monstrosl-often make for a difficultdon't belong in th~ senior section, the city_ of Pittsburgh take ty, soon to be called, "Stepan Dillon frosh transitional period. The ten-please stay where you bel?ng, .and 
great offense! sions of grades are thrust upon
start a trend in that d1rectwn. Oak-Chemistry Hall." 
land is the cultural center of AI • us immediately. One way to
Believe me, you'll appreciate it b h .. . 1. 1 The drawing of the building answer Uffifl1
Pitts urg , not a gnmy Itt e d'd full relieve the enormous pressure
when you are a senior, and you are b,, · released last year 1 not y
subur show the effect it would have "let and
able to watch the game in comfort, as you put lt. is to loose" "get 
without having to look at everyone's Oakland is the home of two on its surroundings. Gradually criticism rowdy." Perhaps we were universities and one college, the building grew from a hole naive to assume the noticeably
legs. 

and is renown for its culn:ral in the ground to the present silent Alumni frosh would reactSecond, to the guards, Mr. 
facilities. Some of these many form it now takes. As the roof Dear Editor: in the same way we did.
Kovatch and Mr. Terry, maybe a 
facilities include the Pittsburgh is raised above the fourth floor, We believe we speak for allstepped-up security check in an.d 
Playhouse, the Carne~i Mus~c the full impact of the structure This letter is in response to Dillon frosh (and hopefully aaround sections 28 and 29 IS 
Hall, and the Carne~:pe lnsu-is fully realized. the letter from several Alumni good protion of the crowd atnecessary? 
tute which houses a library of Not being one to criticize freshment with regard to the the rally) when we say we hadAnd third, to the University over two million volumes, a unfinished projects, 1 felt a pep rally held in the Dillon a great time! Ifhaving fun andofficials who are indirectly respon­
large museum, and t~e very . need to call attention to this courtyard. going crazy once in awhile sible for the mess so many of us impressive Sarah Sca1fe Art one before it's too late. The Many students at Notre (especially before a big football encountered on Saturday and two 
Gallery. And let us not forget dame have chosen to attend· game) means we have no class,weeks prior, remember -the that it was in this ''grimy li!tle The Observer welcomes letters this University because of its then we want no class! seniors oftoday are the alumni and suburb" with its seven med1cal from its readers. Letters int-well-known tradition and spirit Christopher Fraser contributors of tomorrow. Aren't complexes that Dr. )onas S~l.k ended for publication must be as well as its fine academic joseph Baumann they entitled to the comfort of a developed the pofiomyehus typed, double-spaced, and s_i-reputation. Dillon Hall has john Langdon seat without having to pay the vaccine. _gned. To insure swift publtc-.consistently epitomized this tho~sands of dollars to obtain it It is understandable that La ation, the wrz'ter should include enthusiasm. Although non-that they will in the future? Grotta could make such ·a his I her phone number. Dillonites often refer to us as Something 


missing?
Doonesbury "" 
by Garry Trudeau 
Dear Editor, 


I would like to know why St. 



Pf<IH55(R, K15SII-Kit:R., 7HIS 

) oseph and Brownson resi­
TH/3 513M!NM IS CAue!l
IS JOAN CAIJCUS. 51£5 7H!Nk.­


tATER. dence halls are omitted in
"7!-le MAKING OFA 5TAT&S­
ING OF TAKING 'tf)(J~ {{)(J/?SC 

Anthony Walton's sketch? I'm
MAN.•fT'5ABOIJT7HeAC­
71115 ~ANatu(){/lll 

referring to his article which
CUMULATION AN/J MAIN­
UK& 70 KNOW ALI7Tl& 

appeared in The Observer of
TENANC£ OFPOtiler<.
; BITABOUT ll ~ 
September 23.
/ 

Victor Lee Editor's note: The cartoon accompanying Anthony Wal­ton 's article was drawn by Pat Byrnes. According to Byrnes Brownson and St. joseph 's 
• were left out of the cartoon because. like Lewis Hall, he, in his own emphatic, inimitable 
I way, forgot them. 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 

I Editor-m-Chief ............ Paul Mullaney SMC Nt>ws Editor ........... Mary Leavitt Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor .............. Mark Rust Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman l The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of t~e 
Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe
Editonals Editor ........... Mike Onufrak 

University of Notre Dame du ~~an~ Saint ~ary·~ C<?lle~e. It does not ~ecessanly 
Photo Editor .................. John Macor
Senior CopJ· Edrtor . . . . . .. Lynne Daley 

reflect the policies of the a~m1mstrauon _of euhe~ m~utuuon. The news ~~ r.eported 
News Editor .................. Pam Degnan 

as accurately and as objectively as poss1ble_. Edu~n~ls represent .the opm10n .of a 
Business Manager ......... Greg_ Hedges
News Editor ................ Tom Jackman

majority of the Editorial Board. _Com~entanes, opm10ns, and letters are th.e v1ews of their authors. Column space 1s avatlable to all members of the c~mmumty, and Production Manager ..... John McGrath the fr:ee expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. SMC Executive Edrtor .. Margie Brassil 
l_ 



-----------~----------~---~-~ 

Observer Friday ,_September 26, 1 




~ splendid time is guaranteed for all' 
Michael Onufrak 

Despite outlawed section part­This past Monday evening,
When Dean Roemer banned or bars, es of plastic dishes. Instead of "It's not beer, dummy,"
from Green Field last iest, closed busted for instance, I visited my old floor sticky with spilled beer, I replied my hostess. "It's rootpolice who randomly visit off­dorm, Flanner, to engage in
weekend, a lot of people tho­found an elaborate display of beer."
campus parties, increasin~ly some serious socializing. The
the already "strained kitchen and dining room uten­
situation here at ND­limited and inadequate resld­last time I was at a party there, You can imagi'ne my embar­
sils. And, instead of a rowdy,

ence hall party rooms, and the rasment when most of the
SMC would suffer. But far from drunken crowd ofFlannerites, I 
the beer was flowing and half of 
complete extermination of gathering burst into a titter at
suffering, the directive has found a pleasant, although
caused students to band togeth­those harbingers of alcoholism the section looked like one of somewhat boring, crowd of my gaffe.
those Chicag_o hotel rooms after 
er in come (kegs); students have e_asily
adversity and up college students socializing But what a party! Everybody
found numerous ways to mmgle the Senior formal. But things
with many enterprising and without alcohol. 
had a great time except for onetotally innocuous party ideas. with their peers on an informal have changed. Instead of kegs "What's going on?" I asked. 
poor fellow who drank too much
social basis. · inside wardrobes, I found crat­
''A tupperware party,'' the root beer, got a stomach ache,crowd answered in unison. and ruined the wall paper in my
''Want a cup of coffee?'' friend's room. 

"Sure," I said, and immed­iately began to mingle and "It could have been worse," enjoy myself without any alcoh­I told my friend after hearin~ of ol whatsoever. the tragedy. "It could be sucky 
I had such a good time that I beer all over those walls instead bought a frying pan and a salt of root beer." shaker. "Boy, are we lucky," she 
replied.

On Wednesday, I was invited over to Lewis for a get-together. Finally, last night, I visited 
Many times had I visited this another friend at Augusta Hall over at Saint Mary's. Renown­
hall only to be greeted by sadistically drunken students, ed for her wine and cheese 
parties, I was quite excitedhalf crazed on keg-drawn beer. 
when I was asked to come overSo it came as no surprise when I for the meeting.
entered the party and saw four But when I entered, theremetallic recepticals was no Colby, no Edam, nowhich can easily be tapped to Cheddar, not even any wine.

dispense the evil hops and 

• 
Only taffy. 
barley. 

"Didn't you hear about the I had been invited to a taffy pull.

keg directive?'' I asked my 
Now, I hadn't been to a taffy pull in years, but I had more fun
Energy so1uttons fri~.c:f~~~;;e," 
she answered. 

that evenin~ than I ever had at• ''But these kegs are fit even for any Dionystan kegger or any·
JimNtehaus ·~edri!~~.mer and Glenn Terry off-campus orgy. 
There was spearmint taffyWell, naturally, I was taken and peppermint taffy, and forI would like to use this column to respond to Immediate decontrol will also have a very • aback. But she just pushed me those who could stay late,Paul Lewis's recent article on the United States' significant impact on our balance of J,>ayments towards the beer line and said,· licorice-flavored.Each one was
race for energy independence. and will lessen our dependence on foreign oil by "See for/ourself.'' 
extremely tasty and everyoneI certainly will not criticize Paul's article. I increasing the supply of domestic oil. The oil is I amble up to the keg, plastic had a great time.
thought it a clear, accurate and perceptive there, but many wells in this country ate not cup in hand. As I depressed the From these three examples, I description of the problem and possible solu­producing a capacity because of the current tap, a foamy, dark brown think you can see that socially,tions. I agree that we need to step up use of coal pricing sturcture. There is no reason for a substance spewed forth. 
there is plenty to do here atand nuclear power until the day that fusion and producer to pump oil when he knows that he will "Guinness dark?" I asked
I ND-SMC. All it takes is a littlesolar power can take over. Fusion power is receive only a fraction of the world price when he my hostess. 
imagination and a repugnance
clearly the energy source of the future. sells it. "Taste it and see," she said. 
for alcohol.

Decontrol will also encourage exploration forStill, we are faced with the problem of what to new sources of oil, and make it profitable todo until fusion and solar power will make us begin secondary recovery from "dry" wells. ,energy independent. Greater use of coal and Yes, the enrgy industry will reap windfallfission power is not the total answer. We must profits from decontrol. Producers should beface the fact that even with conservation our encourage to use these windfall profits toconsumption of/as and _oil will increase. Still, research and develop new eneq~y sources,we cannot affor to contmue to buy as much oil whether they be new supplies of od or, better as we do from OPEC, much less increase the still, fusion and solar power. Encouragementamount. 
should come in the form of taxing all windfall The answer is simple. We must increase our profits that are not invested in this way. 
domestic production of oil and gas. Currently, Another step_ toward energy independence is the energy industry is not producing near its abandonment of President Carter's $88 billion capacity and for this the government is clearly at synthtic fuels program. This program will build fault. 50 experimental plants around the country.
My first suggestion is to disband the Depart· These plants, however, will not produce fuels ment of Energy. The DOE is .not designed to around the country. These plants, however, will research and develop new forms of energy nor to not produce fuels for mass consumption-theyproduce any established forms of energy. The will experiment.department will regulate an already overregulat­We can do all the experimenting we need with 
ed industry. Jimmy Carter may offer the just two or three plants. The rest of the money department a~ proof that he is doing something could be spent on fusion, research. Fusion about the nergy problem, but it is nothing more power's potential far outstrips synthetic fuel's than a waste of taxpayers' money. potential and deserves, therfore, the most 
My next suggestion is immediate decontrol of attention and the most money. gas and oil prices, not the gradual decontrol The only reason I suggest the governmentproposed by the Carter administration. For become involved in energy research at all is that those of you who do not know what decontrol time is short. The government has the capital means1 it is simply removing the price restraints that is necessary for the initial stages of research imposed on domestic producers of gas and oil. and development. The government's role, For some reason, the government decided that however, should be a limited one. producers should not charge more for their oil Some people may disagree with the social than the price set when they first dug the well. implicauons of decontrol, greater use of coal and ~-~· 
Control of ?il prices. forc_es domestic _producers fission power, and allowing our energy future to into the red1culous suuauon of chargmg $4 per be determined mainly by the private secotr. To barrel for their oil when the world price is those, I would like to point out the implications
around -$30. Control of oil prices at the of not doing so. . . well-head has prevented oil prices from reacting At present, our oil supplies are threatened not I casu~lly glanced arou~d to I Thts weeke~d some friends to the market. They have been kept artificially only by instability in the Middle East (a ma;or ,be c~r.tam the whole eplsode and I are gettmg together out 
low. threat in itself), Europe andJapan, but also by jhwasn ~ adn_elab?rhatNeDtraSP.so~e-~ on Green Field for a real 
Decontrol will temporarily send oil prices up, the ov1et. U . h '11 be ImaJor. cause of 'whow tte m wit ecunty.h" fitrst-cIass sh'm-d'tg. The boys ' 
S nton, w o wt 
1

as high as $3 for a gallon ofgas. '):_'he the increased demand. Post WWII military • en was sure everyt mg . will be to promote greater conservauon interventions in Eastern Europe and Mghanis-/was on the up-and-up I quaffed ~e havm~ a tug-of-w~r and the help form better conservation habits. tan are examples of Soviet reactions to minor what I supposed was a hearty gtrls havmg a sewmg bee. h,.,,,.,,..,r.., when the price drop~, as it wi~l, "11 b th . . . brew
threats. What wt e etr reacnon to a maJor { "E. k , choked. "This There'll be plenty of kool-aidwill be used to conserving and wtll threat? b YYfl' , , 1 and cookies. ·You're all invited · 
to do so. I contend that if we have to compete with the eer ls at. rest of the world for a large pomon of out oil Niehaus is a first year at Notre supplies, then the nuclear power plants to fear ========================*1 
Law School. He wtll write for the 
will not be those located near our cities, but 
editorials page throughout the year. those located the world's nuclear missiles. Michael Onufrak ts editoriaiS1 editor of The Observer. , 




-----~---------------~----~--------­
, September 26, 1980 -page 10 
YOU NEED A SOCIAL LIFE, TOO! 




School is a lot of work • but it should ·also be a lot of fun! 
We'll show you how to: 
• 
Raise your grade point average, and have more • End all-night cramming sessions. free time for yourself. • Do all your: studying in 1/3 the time it's now 

• 
Read 3 to 1 0 times faster and with better taking you. comprehension. 


Attend a Free lntrodudory Lason 
• Increase your reading speed dramatically on the spot. 
-• Learn about advanced study techniques. 
Come spend an hour with us • and go have fun this weekend! 
SCHEDULE OF FREE LESSONS TODAY 3:30and7:00pm 
A.C.C. ROOM C-129 SATURDAY 12:30pm 
EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 

~====================================~--~~=--===~ 

Campus 
12:1~pm-faculry preview, "early english drama" 242 o'Shag. 
~:1~pm-mass, bulla shed. 
7,9,11pm -film, "moon­raker' carroll hall (smc). 
7,9,llpm · ftlm, "manhat­tan" engineering aud. 
7:30pm -hangout, "the empty keg" smc snack bar. 
8pm · P,lay, "he who!.ets slapped ' o'laughlin au . 
9pm · party, a block party, north quad. 
lOpm • nazz, dan osborn. 
11pm -nazz, n.d. jazz combo. 
Saturday, September271980 
1:30pm -bike-a-thon, "wheels for life", football stadium. 
6:30pm-capping ceremony youthful nurses, smc church of loretto. 
7,9,llpm · ftlm, "moon­raker", carroll hall (smc). 
7 ,9, llpm -ftlm, "manhat­tan", engineering aud. 
8pm -play, "he who!.ets slapped" o'laughlin au . 
9pm -nazz, gang of four. 


Molarity 


Peanuts 
NO, OUR KIND DOESN'T GET TO VOTE...WE DON'T I-lAVE ANI(THIN6 TO SAV ABOUT WHAT GOES ON IN THE WORLD 
THE ADMJ/1116TR/jT/DN NOW 5-:\YS W~ Ct>.N'r HAVE I')E6J.5 ON GREEN FI£LD 
IAN]) TI1AI kl£ HUST5fAY 
. IN 6/NGL£ .5£X ROOMS 

2:.l1 
~ 

$-('1 



·Friday,.September 26, 1980 -page 11 

Michael Molinelli 
EASY .. . BRI NGI Kf.GJ.S ON 7H£ .5£/JJDR FaRHA/... ;r\f.,'P ClO HAV£ .5F.X . 



Charles Schulz 
."' 
~



--S/2.~·­
C) 1980 United Fealuce Syndicattt, Inc. 

· IsOrion ReallyElvis? 


onwill beatthH------. orris Civic Auditorium-----I t 27th 7:30 prn---..... 
is a :Jpnefitforthe Salvation ArmyChristmas Fun 
Tickets can be purchased in advance atRiver City Records and atthe Morris Civic Box Office for 56.00 and 54.00 
10an(~ 56.00 atthe do .· 

The Daily Crossword 

11/Z&/10
© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd.lnc. 
All Rights Reserved 
ACROSS 1 Soccer great 5 Javltsor Rlls 10 Landon namesakes 14 Draft animals 15 Ancient 
rabbi 16 Sky: Fr. 17 Frost 
crust 18 Liquor drink 20 WarZone 
leHers 21 Thebest 22 Hay-fever 
evidence 
23 Dozers 26 Below 27 Musical 
potpourris 
29 Robert Wagner TV role 
31 lobed 
32 Narrowly 
defeats 36 Equal: pref. 37 Remain 39 Genetic 
abbr. 40 Retaliation 43 Back 45 Partof 
QED 
46 Trigono­metric functions 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

48 Faye 51 Dwelling 53 Gull·llke 55 Athletic 
competition 56 ''The­and I" 59 Fruit trellis 
61 Homeof ancient Irish kings 
62 Funny 
Johnson 63 Behold: Fr. 64 Entrance 65 Inspects 66 Majorand 
kitchen 67 Hackman 
DOWN 1 Ponder 2 Leave 3 Hard candy 4 Comp.pt. 5 Old vehicle 6 Chemical 
compounds 7 Promising one 8 Mineral earth 
9 Excludes 10 Stresses 11 Enjoyed 12 Tizzy 13 Craftier 19 Habituate 21 Mimicked 24 Pubdrink 25 Llketame 
horses 27 Golda 28 Assuage 30 Enzyme 
ending 32 Zllc:h 33 Fruit 
drink 34 Bonyflsh 35 Light -browns 37-rule 38 British 
spa 41 Julia Child 
spec:laltles 42 Dunne 43 Take it 
-comes 44 Snare 46 Louisiana 
dialect 47 "Manon" and "Aida" 48 Water 
plants 49 Csonka 50 Incensed 52 Scope 54 Roofedge 57 Smile 58 Admission 
receipts 60 Bunk! 61 Child's 
game 



I
I 
If you'rl' about to graduate with a degree in ~,.,.. Sound good? Gallo cohcluded. Ekrt ricaI, Mechanical. Civil, or Aeronautical ~-...: Then stop by your placement Enginet•ring, Computer Science, Physics, , :' offi.ce and sign up for an on-campus Mathematics, Engint'l'ring Technology or · interview.
I 
' 
Industrial Engineering, we'd likt' to talk to you • Or send your resume directly to about your future. The Boeing Company, P.O. Box 3707­
SMC tennis 
' Will it be in commt•rcial jl't liners? We're C69, Seattle, WA 98124. building two new planes-the 767 and 757. And get your career off to .a flying start While the orders for 727s, 7:J7s and 747s keep with Boeing. 
I 1 takes to roadcoming from all over the world. An equal opportunity employer. Or perhaps you'd like to work on a \·aril'ty of t'xcit ing acrospan• projects. .IIOEI.NG by Deirdre Grant GETTING PEOPLE TOGETHER
\Vhatcn'r path you take at Boeing, Sports Writer you'll enjoy liYing in Seattle-one of 
The St. Mary's tennis team, a
:\nwrica's most beautiful cities. 
6-3loser to Notre Dame Monday afternoon, feels nothing but op­timistic as it plods ahead with rwo matches coming up. 
The Belles take to the road for a match with archrival DePauw to stan the weekend. Coach Ginger Oakman's team finishes the weekend by competing in the Irish invitational Sunday and Monday. 
"It is going to be difficult to carry momentum through such a long series of matches," said sophomore Jan Dvonch. "But we have been working hard and should be ready to take them all on. We all hav~ great expecta­tions." 
Patsy Coash was the lone singles winner for St. Mary's against the Irish Monday while the Belles took rwo of the three doubles matches. 
"Notre Dame outplayed us in some areas," said Oakman, "but I was pleased with our girls. I'm happy with the pro~ress the team has shown-· therr great attitude and hard work are all contributing. 
"We face a very tough string of matches over the next few days, so it is imperative that we re'lain enthusiastic and develop 
· momentum." 
The Observer Friday ,.September 26, 1980-page 12 

BRIDGETS 
presents 

TGIF60's HAPPY HOUR friday 3-7 2for 1 bar drinks S1 00 ff . ch 
. o ptt er $.25 off all beer 
wear your mini skirts, love beads& 
The·Bestin 
Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. Closl!d Sundays & Holidays 
accustomed to.'' Murphy had additional praise 
for co-captain Walters. "On a 
team with not seniors, she was 

a very steadying influence. She provided some level-headed • • .Irish 
leadership, both offensively 

and defensivdv. "Our other co-captain, Mari­anne Viola, broke her thumb in [continued from page 16] warm-ups, and she will be out 
knows his limitation,'' GAllofor three to four weeks. She said. ''Siler is a good student of was a very valuable part of our the game and from the shoulders team, and we are really feeling up he's the smartest ball playerthe loss. That means that we on the club." ·have to count on Terri even Siler is 4-4 in spot duty this fall. 
Spring Harbor College is ser­ious about its baseball rro!{ram taking a traditional fal tnp to Hawaii. 
''They are a scrappy ball club and if given an opportunity will take advantage of it,'' Gallo said. 
Lewis University is a perennial power in the National Associa­tion of Intercollegiate Athletics having finished runner-up in last season's NAJA championship. The three previous seasons Le­wis won the championship. Lewis was 68-23 last season and head coach Irish Oreilly returns 15 lettermen from that club. 
"Lewis has as good a baseball team as any in the Midwest,'' 

Gel lOUR 1H€GI\OUND 
----~ ~-------­

Belles down Tri-State in five sets 
by Skip Desjardin The 4-8 record with which the more and she really came 
through for·us."
Sports Writer club came out of the round 

The coach says that she has a
robin tournament was not at all
The Saint Mary's volleyball 

very. impressive group of rook­
indicative of the girls' flay.

team defeated Tri-State at in 
ies this season, as well. One of
"We played very wei against

Athletic Facility yesterday 
those rookies is Loret Haney, in 
Kellogg Community College.

10-15, 15-9, 15-5, 12-15, 15·9. 
whom Murphy said she hopes
They were the home team, and
"Terri Walters, again played 

are the defending National to find leadership this year.
especially well," said Sa:int 
''Loret played for the Nonh
] unior-Community College

Mary'·s mentor Erin Murphy. 
Athletic Association champ­Carolina state champions for
"She's been hot and it's nice to 
ions, and we lost rwo well-play­three straight years in high
have a win to back up such a 
ed games to them, 9·15 and school. She has got a lot of
performance.'' 
experience, and should become
11-15," Murphy said. 
It was a weekend of ups and 

one of our top players very
"Overall, I was very pleased

downs for the Saint Mary's 
quickly," Murphy srud. 
with the way that the girls

volleyball team, according to 
played," she said. "We had ·For their next match the
Murphy. 

only been practicing for rwo Belles will travel Tuesday to
The team travelled to Battle 

weeks, and I used them at a lot Purdue-Calumet for a tri-meet
Creek, Michigan for the Small 
of positions that they weren't with Fort Wayne. 

and] unior College Invitational. 
YARD&BAKE SALE 
this saturday sept. 27 &28 &sunda at 535 E. Napolean Blvd. So. Bend 




-----~---~--------~---~---------~---~-------------~---~-----­
Irish women suffer two straight losses 

Deasey paces ND pitchers 

by MiA:.e 0/eniA:. Sports Wnter 

fter a record-setting 29-8 last spring, Coach Larry and his Irish baseball set out this fall to answer questions about a possible performance for the baseball team. One that seems to already answered is that of Notre 's number-one starting 
all-important spot will be by senior nght-hand­ike Deasey. Deasey, a 6-3, 5-pound native of Edina, inn., will be called upon by to improve on his already pressive spring season that him win six out of eight while rolling up a 
ri~~ 2. 39 ERA. 
Wtth the Irish showing a 4-0 
thus far this fall, it 
that Gallo's club is 
ed to prove that last 

's accomplishments are 
a beginnmg for the up­graded program. Deasey him­self shows a growing confi­dence already. 
"I think the whole program has turned around drastically. We have many quality ballplay­ers once again this year. The hitting and fielding are definite­ly there, so I think the key will be pitchin~.'' 
Considenng the relative insig­nificance of the fall season for post-season purposes, it would follow that most players would utilize the few games to work on new techniques and consisten­cy. For a pitcher, that means developing a new pitch or working on hitting the strike zone more proficiently. Deasey takes full advantage of both 
bv Kelly Sullivan Women's Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's women's volley­ball team suffered two straight losses before posting its first victory of the young season Monday night. In a triangular match at Valparaiso, the Iri!ih lost to the host school 9-15, 13-15, then came back to defeat Purdue-Calumet 12-15, 15-12, 15tl 1. Last week, the squad 
beaten in its season opener Tri-State College, bringing ir ledger to 1-2. 
coach Sandy Vanslager not overly concerned with two losses, citing minor with fundamentals as the 's main problem. "The team effort was excel­,' she stated. ''Experience 
I eliminate our mistakes. 
pite losing, the girls played well that I feel we don't need get 15 points to be consider­
a ·winner.'' 
was pleased with crew's effort against Val­. , a Division II school five returnees from year. "We didn't give that away-it was a real strug­
," said Vanslager. 
victory over Purdue-Cal the Irish a much needed ......, ..v 1.,.· ....... , boost but was not disadvantages. One the team's back row special­, freshman Jane Healey, a knee mjury that has her from practicing 
did an outstanding job st Purdue-Cal,'' noted 

or,portunities. After all, Notre Dame fiasn't 'Right now, I'm working on had a real good baseball histo.ry ~etting a good slider," he says. the past few years. However, I 'I've done pretty well so far do . think that our record was with it, but I've got to learn to go~d enough and that we keep it down a little more. certainly could compete with 
"Another thing I'm concentra­some of the teams ip the ting on this fall,'' adds Deasey, tournament." "is to get better control and to gain some more confidence." To erase any doubts concern­
Besides experimenting with ing last year's team, the Irish the slider, Deasey continues to will be out to prove that work on his best pitch-the baseball is indeed taking a fastball. The effectiveness of rejuvenated look on ) ake Kline this pitch is based on both Field. With the · anitude location in the strike zone and exhibited by players like Mike the pitches he sets it up with. Deasey and the rebuilt enthusi­"Basically I'm a fastball asm about Notre Dame baseball r,itcher," explains Deasey, as a whole, it wouldn't be 
'but I'll set up the fastball with surprising if the NCAA took a my curve or change-up. Coach closer look in the future. Gallo always has told me to go with my strength in key situa­tions, so I usually do rely on my 
fastball." 
RANDALL'S NEW CENTURY INN 

The pressure associated with being the ace of any staff could 
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL out of state 800 348-2412 
be too much to handle for some players, but Deasey looks upon 
In Indiana 219 272 7900
~ 

his role with genuine confi­dences. "I feel no pressure at 
15% DISCOUNT ON OUR ROOM RATES
all. There are etght super players behind me to back me up so I just pitch my game. . ""' /
FOR THE ENTIRE NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY
Once you establish a tempo, the 
players know what you're doing (eXcluding special events) and what to expect.'' The importance of playing at 
last year's level is clear if the 1MILE OF TH'EroLL ROAD EX1T oN us
Irish are to garner an NCAA / tournament bid as they nearly 
did last spring. Although many CHINESE-AMERICAN CUISINE LIVE ENTERTAINMENT people were seriously disap­pointed with the NCAA's deCi­sion to exclude Notre Dame from last year's tourney, Deasey feels that they were justified in their verdict. "I don't think we were dealt with unfairly by the NCAA. 
Vanslager. 
"We proved to ourselves that we want~d to win bad enou~h.'' , Notre Dame's next match ts on October 8th against Division I power Indiana State. Vanslager expects a tough contest, saymg it would take almost flawless play to defeat the Sycamores. ''Ifthe girls can keep their level of performance up they can win. We've proven a lot to ourselves this week and we're psyched up." 
DON'T LET MONEY DICTATE YOUR FUTURE 
Whether you go to college no longer has to be based on how much money you con earn during the summer. 
Air Force ROTC offers a four, three or two-year schol­arship to pay you SlOO a month and all tuition, textbook and lob fees. With money problems reduced, the deci­SIOn to ~o to college is your own. 
. The Air Force needs dedicated officers in a variety of d1fferen_t JObs, and one of these jobs is bound to fit into you~ p1cture. After. graduation and commissioning, you II find chollengmg work along with the chance to grow through experience. 
Find out about the Air Force ROTC scholarship pro­gram today. It's a great way to help yourself through those toug.h college years and a great way to get ready for an exc1t1ng future, as a commissioned officer in the United States Air Force. 
contact Capt. Gottrich for additional 'info-28 -6634 
0 

0 
HOTC 
Gateway to a great way of life. 
Friday,September 26, 1980 -page ):3 
Pinocchio's Pizza Parlor 
Luncheon Specials Weekdays 
BeerSpecials Every Nite­8:00to 9:00$.25Mug $1.25 Pitcher 
I Hours
'!''''''"''''''''..'''''''''''''''''"'''"'':
IThis Coupon I 11 :00-12:00Mon-ThurslGood for One l 11 :00-l :30Fri-Sat 
l Pi%%11 l 
4:00-11 :OOSun1$2.00offany 1 iLarl(e Pizza i l$1.00offany l

I I
SmallPiZ'ZB 
•ftnonuouH.ouooooouonoouuonuuooooo/ 
We Deliver 



~ Special -Cross Country 
The National Catholic Cross Country Meet 
by Matt Huffman Sports Wn'ter 
The gun will sound today at 4 p.m.-<:ommencing the first annual National Catholic Cross Country Meet. The race, organized and originated by Notre Dame coach]~ Pi~e, will feature 18 teams from as far away as Santa Oara, Califorrua.. Coach Piane believes the Irish harriers have a good chance of
I 
I winning the meet. ''I feel we are in a pos1t1on to win. We've worked hard, and the team has been pointing for our opener," he said. 
I 
A first place finish is no small order for the Irish. Among the
I 
I schools entered are such as Marquette, Holy Cross, and St. Johns. I "It should be a very competitive meet," P\ane says. "One of the I top runners .at the meet is Pete Storseth of Marquette. But we're I also confident that Chuck Aragon can win the race." Aragon is the 
senior captain of the 1980 Notre Dame cross country squad. Each team will consist of seven members for today' s race. The Irish 
f 
I roster in addition to Aragon will indude seniors J?hn ~ilosa and John ,_l Riely, junior Tony Hatherly, sophomore Carl Btctcchi, and freshmen Andy Dillon and Ttm Novak.
I 
Coach Piane, in his sixth year, is pleased with the response to the
I 
meet. "We just sent out letters and hoped for the best. We were
I 
really happy with the number of, and the quality of teams that responded. In the future we will be looking for more teams, and for 
some of the really big cross country teams-like Villanova and Georgetown.''Other coaches seemed just as pleased, and were likewise impressed with the field. 
Coach Jim Allen of Marquette commented, "It's ~gthat they were able to ~et as many te~ ~ they did for a ~t year meet. It truly is a nanonal meet constdenng the range of distance that many schools had to travel. " 
The race is set for Notre Dame's home field, the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
The first annual National Catholic Cross Country Meet will be held today at 4 p.m. on Burke Memorial GolfGo Irish! Course. Irish · head coach ] oe Piane UAIZS the matn 
coordinator for the meet. 

Speedyfreshman adddepthfor Irish 
b.., Tim Prister 
Sports Writer 
Joe Piane, head cross country and track coach, is a very happy man these days. You see, coach Piane has recently stumbled upona fortune. 
No, not a fonune of great monetary value. Rather, Piane has discovered five freshman athletes rich in natural ability. 
The Iri~h coach hopc;s th~s.e freshm~n will beg10 to payoff 10 dlVldends thts afternoon when his cross country squad participates in the National Catholic Cross Country Championship at Notre Dame. 
"Teams from all over the nation will 
be participating including St. ] ohns 
and LeMoyne College ofNew York and 
Holy Cross which is located in W orces­
ter, Massachusetts," says Piane. 
Also rerresented in the inaugqral event wil be Santa Clara, Marquette, Loyola, DePaul and St. Thomas of St. Paul, Minnesota to name a few. In all, eighteen schools will compete in the meet. 
Though anxiously awaiting the out­come of his team's performance, Piane is quick to pick up on his youthful freshmen crew. "We were really quite fortunate to get such a talented group of individuals all at once,'' comments Piane, who is in his sixth year at the helm of the cross country and track )rograms. 
Topping the list of the "Fantastic Frosn"is Chicago native Ralph Caron. Caron was second in the state of Illinois in both cross country and the two-mile, recording a swift 9:02 time in the latter event. 
''Ralph is an excellent runner and I expect him to be one of our tqp five runners by the end of the season. Unfortunately, a recent injury (a sprained ankld has slowed his prog­ress otherwise Ralph would have been one of two freshman participating for us on Friday," remarks-Piane. 
One freshman who wil be running today will be Andy Dillon. Dillon hails from Detroit, Michigan and like Caron, finished' second in the state in cross country in addition to placing third statewtde in the two-mile. Thoush a standout in the shoner events, Ptane feels Dillon's future lies in the longer distances. 
distances I mean the five 
'' 


and ten mile run in .addition to the 
steeplechase which is 3000-meters.'' 
Piane's diamoffd in the ruff appears 
to be Chestenon, Indiana's Tim No­
vak. Although Novak's 9:17 time in 
the two-mile lags considerably behind 
that of Caron and Dillon, Piane 
believes he possesses an unlimited 
potential. 

''Tim attended a small high school which didn't give him the opponunity to compete on the same level that Ralph and. Andy . ~d. But from watching htm run, 1t s clearly evtdent that Timhas a bright future ahead. I'm 
extremely pleased with his progress." 
In addition to Dillon, Novak wi!J also 
compete in Friday's run. 
Rounding out Piane' s freshmen corp 
are engineering majors Dave Diebold 
and Dan Walsh. Diebold, from 
Muncie, Indiana was fourth in the 
state in cross co~ntry but saw limited 
action during the track season his 
senior year due to an injury. Chicago's 
Walsh is also expected to make "a 
strong contribution within the year." 
according to Piane. 
•'All five are hard working and t:~l,.nted individuals," says Piane, "unfonunatdy only two will be able to run Friday. 
''At the moment, I would say Caron, Dillon and Novak are the three best among the freshment but that's not to say Dave and Dan won't be able to contribute. All five have very promis­ing futures as runners at Notre Dame." 

Piane also emphasizes that not only are the five talented athletically, but also quite competent in the classroom. ''Ralph and Tim are in pre-med, Dave and Dan are in engineering and 
Aragon , Filosa captain squad during 1980 fall campaign 
by Kevin Donius Sports Writer 
With the cross country team opening its season today with the National Catholic Invitatioaal Meet, senior co­captain Chuck Aragon is optimistic that the team will do quite well. 
"We expect to win this meet. The whole team has been working hard and we look real ~ood," says Aragon. "We're counttng heavily on four freshmen this year, but I feel confident that they'll come through for us." · 
Tim Novak, Danny Walsh, Ralph Caron and Andy Dillon are the four freshdten that Aragon was speaking of. Those four along with senior]ohn Riely are a vital part of the team. 
When Aragon talks. about the up~o~­ing season, everythmg he says ts 10 terms of the team. He pushes aside personal attention in order to stress the team aspect of cross country. 
"Cross country is definitely a team spon. During a race you must be conscious of where all your teammates are so that you can work together. You feel good when you do well personally, but the real satisfaction comes when the team wins," says the Los Lunas, Mexico native. 
''This/ear I think we're more team 
oriente than ever before. Every week 
we run 85 miles together and this 
makes u.s very close to one anotht:r. 
When we're old and gray we are gomg 
to remember the togetherness that we 
had more than we remember anything 
else." 
Aragon was an all-4nterican at ~s 
Lunas High School 10 New Mextco 
before coming to Notre Da:~>e. It is Andy is a business major,'' says Piane. "Obviously these five guys are more than just runners, they are also quite intelligent. Of course, this is common among distance men. They tend to be introspective individuals. This may say philosophical or trite but in most cases, it's true." 

easy to see how his optimistic outlook and enthusiasm would make him a natural leader. 
John Filosa, an economics major from Iflinois, is the other Irish captain. He, too, stresses team unity. 
''Unity is def10itely a key for this team. As far as individual talent goes, we may not be as strong as in other years, but together we're at least as strong. Coach Piane had a good year recrutting and that helped us consider­ably. Having a lot of younger guys around helps keep the older guys motivated." 
Filosa thinks the team has a lot of potential this year stating, ''From what I've seen, I think we'll do better than we've done in recent Jears. Going to the NCAA f10als woul not be unlikely. '' 
"We want to make it to the National Cross Country lnvitationals, which is something that we haven't done since I've been here," agrees Aragon. ''Everyone on the team has different capabilities, but ifwe can get everyone to run to their optimum at least once this year, then we'll have a ~reat chance of making the Nationals.' 
Both Filosa and Aragon encourage students to suppon their team. As Aragon puts it, "We've been running really hard for this meet and we would appreciate all the suppon we can get.'' 
If a team could get to the nationals just by having the right attitude, then the Insh would be there. SinLe this is not the case, it's going to take a lot of hard work and little luck to get there, but this team is perfectly capable of reaching their ultunate goal. 
.. 
-

-----------------------------------------------, Friday ,_September 26, 1980 ·page 15 
following are the lnterhall Tennis pairings for the third round of . The participants must con-
or her opponent and set up a 
this week. Results must be to the lnterhall Office (61 00) by Wednesday, Oct. 1. Failure to 

the results will mean dlsquallflca­of both participants. 
MEN'S OPEN 

Sl  Pairings  
. McClean (6279)  
<:rh,~hr,w•l<r  vs. Nang! (1474)  
. Baker (283-1796)  
vs. Duffy (1398)  

) vs. Rudser (234-3389) 
MEN'S SOCCER STANDINGS 

Grace I  2-0  
Dillon  1-0  
Pangborn  1-1  
0-C  H  
Alumni  0-1  
Howard  0-2  
Stanford  1-0  
Carroll  1-o  
Flanner I  1-0  
Morrissey  1-0  
Grace II  .  0-1  
Flanner II  0-1  
Holy Cross  0-1  
Zahm  0-1  
Sorln  0-0  
St. Ed's  0-0  

Off-campus 2. Panqborn 0 
Sophomore 
tix available today 
Sophomore student tickets for the October 18 Army foot­ball game may be picked up today at the second floor ticket windows in the ACC. Distribu­tion for freshmen is scheduled 
Sports Briefs'---_ 
Ruggers host Boilers 
The Notre Dame Ru~by Club will host Purdue tomorro~. Game time for the "A' squad is 1 p.m. at Stepan field wtth the "B" and "C" matches following. The Boilermakers 
swept the Irish at West Lafayette last year. 
Water polo club meets PurduP 
The Notre Dame Water Polo Clu.b will meet the P4rd~e Boilermakers tomorrow at 10 a.m. m the Rockne Memonal pool. 

Beutler (1802) vs. Hoefler (8273) for Monday, September 29.Herman (1789) vs Eichenlaub (8'712)Pointer (1401) vs Dunlop (4557) Those who cannot make their Wiilkas (1154) vs bye scheduled pickup date may do Sharp (3378) vs Mountain (283-3368) so Tuesday, September 30.Puisis (1188) vs Travis (3216) Students may pick up asLindeman (1972) vs Mulligan (3339) Green (1854) vs Rl~ali (1654) many as four tickets each, as Simon (3087) vs Wimberly (1796) long as they have one class­Burton (1736) vs Bye .Soccer mate's I.D. per ticket. StudentsHanahan (1629) vs Wolfe (3830) • • who have not yet purchased tickets for the Army game may MEN'S NOVICE still do so. A limited number of Singles Pairings tickets remain available forCerise (6268) vs Jchrlngs (1418) students only.Andrews (8679) vs Russell (1138) [continued from page 16]Healy (7997) vs James (8410) The ticket windows will be Moreno (3254) vs Siey (3377) open from 8 a.m. throu~h 5individuals on this team. If weSchulre (1767) vs Wicke (1685) p.m. on each of the ptckupYu vs Bye come out and play lik we ~d dates listed above.Gardner (8725) vs Matthews (8701) against Ohio State and Xavter,Kempf (8595) vs Hlldner (8745) we'll be in the game. If we play WOMEN'S PAIRINGS like we did in St. Louis, we'll be Kilbride (277-8757) vs Maus (6737) out of the game in the first tenSusan Gordon (6945) vs Klug (7935) Entries due Tom Kowitz (8524) vs Callahan (2145) minutes." Kehias (8149) vs Rakochy (6874) The memory of the game with Maloof (7962) vs Bye the Billikens still casts a shadow over the Notre Dame season, butMIXED DOUBLES PAIRINGS todaya good performance a~ainst Indi­Eichenlaub-Heming (8712) vs Brockel­man-Kiug (232-0921) ana could push the Insh towards Burton-Hammer (1736) vs Lang-Vrost­a shot at their coveted NCAA ek (8631) playoff berth. , . for contestSolarski-Moore (1764) vs New)Cella : ''I'm still embarrassed, srud(1803)Battle-Marks (3347) vs Fantano-Mora­Irish co-cai?tain ] ~ Ciuni ab?ut han (288-3882) the St. Louts game, "But I think The entry deadline for ''Fill we all are and we'll be ready for the Bill" and "Name that Penguin" is 5 p.m. today. AllGRAD-FACULTY Indiana." Grzobien (234-1823) vs Abney (277­They can't afford another entnes must be turned into the 3660) blowo'ut. Observer office by this time.  Novice fencers practice Monday Practice for novice fencers will begin Monday, September 26 at 7 p.m. in the fencing gym of the ACC. The practice is open to all interested and those wishing to attend should enter through Gate 4. Irlsh Invitational begins tomorrow 1The Notre Dame's womens tennis team will host the Irish Invitational this weekend with opening time on Courtney Courts slated for 9 a.m. tomorrow. Division I teams such as W:C.stern Michigan, Central Michigan and Ea~tern Michigan will join the Irish and Saint Mary's College tn the two-day tournament. Softball club needs players In a last-minute decision made yesterday afternoon, WSND has announced that it will broadcast Sunday afternoon's soccer showdown from Bloomington, Ind., between Notre Dame and host Indiana. Sunday's game will be carried live back to campus by. WSND, AM-64 beginning at 3 r.m. Michael Ortman will be doing the play-by-play wtth Bil Dempsey supplying the color commentary. WSND to broadcast soccer game The Notre Dame Women's Softb.all Club. s~ill needs players. Any ND women who would · like to JOtn the club and participate in our spring season, please contact Karen Alig at 1263. All current club members are asked to return their information forms to one of the officers by Oc. 1. Next practice is Sunday at 1:00 p.m. on Greenfield.  
Classifieds  
For Rent COME OUT AND SWING AT THE MANAGEMENTNotices Tickets CLUB SOFTBALL GAME Faculty vs. Students Sat., FOR RENT: Ugly Duckling HELP I NEED 5 GA'S for Sept. ~7, 2:00, Green FieldCareer opportunity for Rent-A-Car. Priced from the MlAM I game OCt. 11.Business/Marketing senior $7.95 a day and seven Please call Colleen NEED A RIDE TO WEST or grad student interested cents a mile. Phone 255­4-1-4539 LAFAYETTE --PURDUEin promotion or area band. 2323 for reservations. THIS WEEKEND CALLWould entail area concerts Wanted: 2 tickets to ALA/ JOHN, 3436and midwest region Exceptionally nice 1 bdrm znf HSMR. Vonysvy zjorbookings, commission sal­apt., furnished. Near ot Fs TO MY DEAREST DDS, ary. Call 288-1725 after Memorial Hosp. 234-4953 Wanted: 2 tickets to ALA/ THOUGH I CAN'T CELE­6pm, 232-3652 or 234-9246 evenings or weekend. No Game. Contact Joe or BRATE YOUR' B-DAY Dan 287-3311 WITH YOUR THIS YEAR YOU KNOW YOU ARENEED RIDE TO DAY­For Sale: 2 BRUCE ON MY MIND. I MISSTONA BEACH* FLA. FOR SPRINGSTEEN Concert YOU! LOVE* CABWantedBREAK. CALL DAMIAN Tickets Oct. 10, Chicago.AT 1005. Main Floor. Best Offer. HE WHO ETS SLAPPED a play by Leonid AndreyevINSTANT CASH PAID Call Mike-1441 directed by Dr. Reginald F.FOR CLASS RINGS. Men's $35-$85 and up. CALL JIM 277-8862 Gain O'Laughlln Auditorium,Lost & Free house calls. 255-2402 DESPERATELY NEEDED: SMC 4 GA Miami tickets. Call September 26,27 October 2,3,4It's lime to start thinking Tonia 2279, General Admission $3Found about October break ... So, 1~ill trade one Michigan ND/SMC Students, Facul­I'm looking for riders goingFOUND: Ladles wrist State ticket for one student ty and Staff $2.50back to central Newwatch near Grace Hall. Air Force ticket Call Tim atJersey, preferably inCall 4783 at SMC. See Agent 007 In MOON­Somerset County. If you 8706 RAKER this Frl & Satwant to drive back withLOST: SMC school ring in Need four Miami GA tlx. (Sept 26&27). 7,9,& 11 pmme, call John at 3106 (orthe backyard of Senior Bar Call Stan 1942 showings at Carroll Hallmaybe 1715 late at night).after the game on Saturday SMC for only $1! If found, please call Eileen Will pay top dollar for 2tlxNeed ride to Trans-USAat 4902 at SMC. to Miami game. Call Ladles: Tonight, Party,Motocross race In Bucha­collect, Hugh Ruddock, 8:30, 4N Howard, Benon, MI. Sept. 28. CallLOST: Green Car Cover. 1-602-262-5518. There, Aloha.Brian at 8395Reward. Call 3231. EILEEN-pour notre chere  Carole, have a great Birth­dy on Sunday! Hope you WINDS. IT SEEMED AS are looking forward to sur­THOUGH THE JOURNEY prises yet to come. Love, WOULD NEVER END. Terri & Mary BUT SUDDENLY. OUT O'F THE GREY SKIESClubs, Organizations. AHEAD,CAME A VISION.Teams, Sections... Order THE VISON HAD BEENyour t-shirts, jackets, golf SEEN BEFORE, SEEN BYshirts, athletic wear at MANY ACROSS THEreasonable prices. Any­AND. BUT THE SIXthing printed!!! Cali Tlo FRONTIERSMEN FOUNDTotaro 277-8183 or Mark IT HARD TO BELIEVELledberg, 1371 THAT THE VISION WAS REAL ..THE APARTMENT cor­dially Invites all Interested BOSTON BUSpersons to attend our partr The Boston Club will betonight and give CARO running a bus to and fromHABEL a kiss for her Boston for October break.birthday. It will leave NO 8pm, Oct. 18 and return from BostonBo, Kenny, Joe &HEALS­at 9am, Oct. 26. Reserve aWhats the deal with the spot now! Sign-up Intoga-punk rock-garbage Lafortune Lobby Wed.can-almost-three-weeks-In­night, Oct. 1, 7-9pm. Costa-row-PARTY? Is $100; $50 deposit required upon sign-up.O'MALLEY & MCCURRIE BOSTON BUSTHE PINK PANTHER AND BRUNO WILL BE Have a good weekendWATCHING BOTH OF YOU TONIGHT AND ON Bill L.SUNDAY. DON'T VEG About three weeks agr weOR CHEESE! could rely on you-what happened?Bouncers needed for "The The QuadEmpty Keg," If Interested call Anita 4-1-4380 TIM GROTHAUS iS ONE OF MY FAVORITETHE EMPTY KEG needs PEOPLE IN THE WHOLECOMEDIANS* MAGI­WORLD!!! LOVE* ANGERCIANS AND IMPRES­#1 
Anita 4-1-4380 as soon as


SIONISTS ...please contactLOST: GOLD ROSEBUD etoile: MEADE-Casse une 

CHARM-BROKEN OFF jambe! Grosses Blses, Do you aches and pains
possible.

FROM RING. LOST For Sale Chateau SUNDEF XIV! that all you? Do you need SATURDAY EITHER AT comfort and solace? Help
Open agaln***THE

GAME OR IN FRONT OF Margie, You've just turned will soon arrive, Colleen
EMPTY KEG*** Friday,

SENIOR BAR. REWARD. For Sale: SR 60 Texas 18 and look at how many Rooney, that bright eyed
Sept. 26 from 7:30-1 :00 In

CALL 7969. Instrument programmable ~uys you've already mender of the Ill, Is being
Personals 
SMC Snack Bar.
'blown off". Isn't this "capped" tomorrow.

calculator, $500 or best
T: SM Cclass ring lost offer. Call 1-616-695-0727. better than high school? "The Empty Keg" has Congratulations, and watch 
(9-20) In LeMans BOYCOTT SENIOR Happy 18th Birthday!! out for doctors that pinch.
moved to... The SMC

Engraving reads: SOUVENIR MICHIGAN FORMAL Andi, Kathy, and Kelly Ryan
SNACK BAR (In the base­BA'81. Please con-PROGRAMS $1 CALL ment of the Dining Hall)

Teresa at 4-1-4788. JU NIORS,SOPHOMDRES If clues are yhour Impossi­Kim,
TONY 1424 
LAST WEEK TO INQUIRE ble quest, Quixotic Inspira­Congratulations on your
AND THE SIX OF THEM

SET OF KEYS Portable cassette player ABOUT Spring semester tion's best. (You should capping-We're so proud of
CONTINUED

CAMARO TAG. and AM-FM radio; only 1 study programs in Mexico. have no trouble finding the ou!
FIGHTING THE COLD,

E CALL 277-0361 mon. old.Contact 234-0711 Call Marcia LeMay, 2788 section-with your library s WHIPPING NORTH rove, Kathy and Monica FTER 6P.M. scouring predilection.) 

~

----~ ~--------~-~-·­
r----.w-------------------­
Friday, September 26, 1980 -page 16
Sports 
To Holohan 

Hunter:on other end of pass 
by Mike Monk with a sheepish grin. "Coach Courey as well as I'd like to,'' Sports Writer Faust wanted to make me an Hunter confesses. all-American. He kept on The intense competition 
Tony Hunter was split wide to telling me 'You're gonna be a doesn't end with the quarter­the left. On the snap of the ball good one, you're gonna be a backs. This young Irish team he raced towards quarterback good one.' But there was just abounds with talent and each Mike Courey, who handed the something I didn't have, and I man wages his own war in football off to the lanky receiv­asked to be moved." hopes of securing that starting er. Hunter rolled right in Whatever it was Tony Hunter role. But off the practice field search of an open receiver, lacked as a quarterback at they are like family, and Tony looking like he had been doing Moeller High School, he has Hunter attributes much of this it all his life, and then lofted a more than make up· for as a unity to Coach Devine. 31-yard strike to flanker Pete receiver for Notre Dame. Last "We all love Coach Devine. Holohan. year as a freshman, Hunter set His decision to resign after this 
"I had always dreamed about a single season Irish record, season came as a real shock to being a quarterback,'' relates averaging 25.6 yards per recep­everybody. So one day the Hunter. "I had always envis­tion, while hauling in 27 passes, captains called a meeting and ioned myself at a big school like one shy of team leader Dean said we're just going to go out Notre Dame playing quarter­Masztak. and play as hard as we can for back in front of a big crowd.'' Despite his muscular 6-5 Coach this year and I know as Hunter finally realized that frame, Hunter can readily dis­for myself, I'm trying to play as dream last Saturday against a play the grace and agility of a hard as I can; I'm giving that stubborn Michigan team. The Lynn Swan, or totally dominate extra effort for Coach Devine.'' play proved even more signifi­the field like a Harold Carmich­Can this togetherness lead to cant when Notre Dame scored ael. When he's not busy an undefeated season and a on the same drive, rallying past catching the ball, you can find national championship? Disre­the Wolverines at that point, him blocking downfield for gard the pre-season experts 26-21. fellow receivers Pete Holohan and listen to someone who 
Surely Hunter l>ossesses the and Masztak: knows. physical capabilities for playing ''The difference between the "We can definitely go unde­the quarterback position. Why great receivers and the good feated this year," boasts Hun­didn't he pursue it at a younger receivers,'' Hunter relates, ter. "Right now we have our 
"are the receivers that bl6ck, confidence going and we're
a~e? 

'Well, I played quarterback the receivers that catch, the undefeated. The only thing my sophomore year at Moeller recivers that can do every­that can stop us now is our­(Cincinnati),'' he confesses thing." selves.'' 
Judging from these criteria, If the Fighting Irish should it is quite easy to designate achieve their ~oal of capturing Tony Hunter as a great receiv­the national title, you can be 
er. But to be a great receiver, sure Tony Hunter will' play a you need a quarterback who can major role. His leadership both get you the ball. Notre Dame's on and off the field will prove to 
by Gary Grassey them because of Betancourt," (Franklin) will start with Steve problem, or advantage, de­be a valuable asset over the 
Soccer team to meet Hoosiers 
Sports Writer Hunter suggested. ''They beat pending on how you look at it, long course of the football
(Miller) on the outside.'' 

us because their fullbacks made Despite the loss of the junior lies in the fact that they have season, and his pass catching juns and we couldn't control leader on defense who was five potential QB's. skills will be sure to make 
The next ob<stacle for the Notre them." ''Having so many quarter­headlines . across the country
named the Irish MVP in the only 

Dame soccer team (7-1) is an For 60 minutes last September two games he played, Hunter backs helps in a way and hurts onece agam.::!ppoimmenr this Sunday (3 p.m. here on Cartier Field, the Irish shows cautious optimism. ''1 in a certain way, because it's ''1 just thank God, because 
kick-off) with the fourth-ranked very competitive and makes the I've been blessed with a lot of
stayed with Indiana in a tightly think we' II have a better chance 
Hoosiers of Indiana University, contested until quarterbacks work harder. It God-given ability, and I
1-0 battle, the against Indiana than St. Louis," think 
currently 5-1-1-on the season, in hurts because I didn't know
Hossiersuperiority began to find he said. ''They play a lot like us it's· up to me to pe.tfect that 
Bloomington. its range, opening the floodgates with the physical game and don, t who was going to be our abi~i,ty. I still have a lot to work 
This ballgame should take on a en route to a 4-0 win.. starting quarterback until on.
have the skills St. Louis had.

much different twist than the Thursday before the Purdue Perhaps, Tony. But a few
Hunter's biggest problem, "It all comes down to thein Louis,
recent debacle St. other than Betancourt and fellow game. I haven't been able to people might disagree with you
because the Hoosiers' style of get my timing down with Mike
all-American winger Robert [Continued on page 15] on that last point. 
play is much like that of coach Maschbach, is the loss of his Rich Hunter's Fighting Irish. 
number-one stopper on defense,"Indiana will show us less Jim St"ein.
finesse," Hunter said yesterday, In his only two appearances in 
Irish f?ost Spring Harbor, Lewis
surveying his troops on soggy an Irish uniform this season, in''They play a
Stepan Field. a separated shoulder
between 

rugged, physical game and injury and the broken leg he 
they're b1g and powerful. sustained in the second half last by Dave Irwin tormance. seasons of work on the lrish The big and powerful begins Sunday against Xavi,er, Stein's Sports Writer "Any time you win it's great, football specialty teams,'' Gallo with 6-3 Armando Betancourt, presence shaped the Notre but we didn't play as well as said. '·~ put him in during the 
a quick, strong and skilled junior Dame defense a The Irish baseball team will be heat the and
into solid, we're capable ofplaying," Gallo of battle Joe All-American returnee who has take-charge unit that permitted at home for the third weekend in said. ''The base running was responded with cinfidence." 
the ability to dominate the no goalsagainst Ohio State and a row hosting Spring Harbor shoddy and that's the way you Woznaik pitched two innings of 
middle of the field. Already, 
gave up nothing in the Xavier College Saturday and Lewis Uni­take yourself out ofa big inning. no-run, no-hit ball in picking upBetancourt has accounted for game until he was carried from versity Sunday. Both days are It is vital that we develop the victory in the first game 
seven goals and three assists the field with 23 minutes to play. doubleheaders starting at 1p.m. situational thinking while on the Illinios Chicaso-Circle. ] unior 
while, coincidentally, the Hos­"We don't have Stein, but we at Jake Kline Field. base paths." Tim Prister ptcked up the win­siers have been riding a five­can't worry about it either," The Irish swept Illinois Chi­Gallo did praise senior pitch­ning run batted in wtth two-out game winning streak that in­Hunter commentec. cago Circle last "Sunday to up er Joe and in the sixth.
"We're Woznaik junior
cludes three shutouts of Top Ten going to have to fill in the gaps. their record to 4-0, but first-year infielder Scott Siler. "Scott gets the job done. He teams. Joe Holterman(freshman) will coach Larry Gallo was less than "Woznaik is a hard-nosed com­"~st year we didn't lose to play center fullback and Ollie . pleased with his team's perfor-petitor as evidenced by his three [continued on page 

1980 
Grid 
Frank LaGrotta

Picks 
Paul Mullaney Bath Huffman Michael Ortman Kelly Sullivan Craig Chval Brian B~lana 
Bill Marquard Gary Grassay
Sports Writer

Editor-In-Chief Sports Editor Assoc. Sp. Editor Woman's Sp. Editor Sports Writer Sports rltar Sports Writer Sports Writer. 
19-8, .704 21-&, .n8 22-5.815 21-&, .n8 19-8, .704 20-7, .741 22-5, .815 22-5, .815 22-5, .815 
Maryland at North Carolina Heels by 1 Heels by 5 Heels by 4 Heels by 7 Heels by 6 Heels by 5 Heels by 7 Heels by7 Heels by 6Huskers by 3
Nebraska at Penn State Huskers by 7 Huskers by 7 Lions by 2 Huskers by 17 Huskers by 4 Huskers by 6 Lions by 3 Lions by 3 Arizona State at Ohio State Bucks by 14 Bucks by 12 Bucks by 7 Bucks by 23 Bucks by 10 Bucks by 9 Bucks by 14 Bucks by 13 Bucks by 11 South Carolina at Michigan Wolves by 17 Wolves by 3 Cocks by 2 Wolves by 6 Wolves by 7 Wolves by 7 Wolves by 9 Wolves by 7 Wolves by 8
Sooners by 18

Stanford at Oklahoma Sooners by 18 Sooners by 10 Sooners by 12 Sooners by 18 Sooners by 12 Sooners by 12 Sooners by 10 Sooners by 17
Auburn by 3

Tennassa at Auburn Vols by 4 Vols by 6 Auburn by 8 Vols by 4 Auburn by 6 Auburn by 10 Vols by 6 Auburn by 4 Florida State at Miaml 'Caines'by 2 'CaineS' by 1 Gatoril, by 6 Gators by 10 'Caines by 6 Miami by 11 Gators by 9 Gators by 7 Gators by 7 Princeton at Rutgers Knights by 3 Kn~hts by 8 Knights by 2 Knights by 14 Knights by 21 Knights by 3 Knights by 15 Knights by 4 Knights by 13 Kant State at Central Mlchlgan CMU by 10 c uby 2 CMU by 10 CMU by 9 Kent by 1 CMU b ll CMU by 8 CMU by 17 CMU by 10 








