
-~---~--~---­
Welcome freshmen! 


VOL. XV, NO. 1 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, AUGUST 25, 1980 
Makeshift quarters found ·for St. Edward's homeless 
hy john McGrath started in the upper floors of News Editor the structure. Workmen who Ninety-eight St. edward's ironically were in the process of 
Hall residents will be living in installing a sprinkler system, makeshift quarters this semes­sounded the alarm shortly efore ter and their former home lies 9 a.m. when they smelled in a state ofruin, all victims ofa smoke. destructive June 25 fire which There was some speculation swept through the building's that blowtorches being used by fourth floor and roof. the workmen may_have been 
Although damage was exten­at fault for the blaze. sive, University officials have No formal loss figure has decided to proceed with plans been announced pending the to rebuild the hall. Donald resolution of insurance cover­Dedrick, director of the Phys­age conflicts. ical Plant, told The Observer At the height of the fire, ten yesterday that reconstruction pieces offire equipment were at of the 98-year-old structme the scene. The vehicles encoun­could begin as early as Oct. 1. tered some difficulties in ap­
In the interim, 98 of St. proaching the structure be­bdward's scheduled 124 resi­cause of the lack of an access dents will be housed in portions road, and some had to run over of Grace, Flanner, and Colum­bushes to get within reach of ba Halls, according to Fr. the fire. Michael Heppen, director of employees of the Adminis­housing. tration Building, a scant 30 
Sixty-six students are to be ards away, were evacuated at lodged in converted study loun­one point for a short time as ges in the two tower dorms. flames threatened to spread. Twenty of the study lounges in Fr. Pedi was the only person Grace and Flanner have been living in the structure over the prepared to house three or four summer, and he was in class at students each along with resi­the time the fire broke out. dent assistants and an assistant Many of his personal belong­
The june 25 fire that engulfed the roof and
rector from St. hd's. ings were saved, including his 
upper floors ofSt. Ed's has left the University
The section of Columba Hall pet bird, a Moluccan Cockatoo. nearest the Grotto known as Two other prized fixtures of Vincent Hall has been prepared the hall, a frescoe on the second 

'Personal reasons' 
to house the remaining 32 floor painted in the late 1800s 
students and St. hdward's Rec­and a stained glass window of tor Fr. Mario Pedi. Fr. l::.dward Sorin,. were also "They're going to try to saved, although water damage 
Devine : A soul search ends 
maintain their hall spirit," said was heavy throughout the building.

Heppen of the displaced St. audience to make his announcement. This t.d's residents. He indicated The blaze was brought under By Paul Mullaney would allow him to first inform his players and that plans are even being made control by approximately 11:30 Editor-in-Chief coaching staff. 
· to field St. hdward's intramural a.m., and University officials "Naturally when you make a decision like sports teams this year. were immediately forced to Notre Dame football coach Dan Devine this you confide in a few people," said Devine. Four firemen were injured consider options for providing ended a prohmged soul search last Friday by "But when you tell somt!body a secret, it's no while fi~hting the blaze which [continued on page 5] announcing that he will resign from his post at longer a secret. So I couldn't wait with the the conclusion of the 1980 season. announcement, because I didn't want the The unexpected announcement, which squad and the staff to hear about it from 
even caught most athletic department somebody else." 
officials by surprise, was televised nationally Devine has been under pressure from over ABC during halftime of the Aug. 15 various alumni groups. since succeeding Ara exhibition game btrwet.n the Pittsburgh Parseghian in 1975, and his wife is suffering Steelers and Atlanta Falcons. from multiple sclerosis. He emphasized, 
Frosh crowds move 



across U.S. 31 

Devine, who opens his sixth season at however, that he received no pressure to quit, by Mary Fran Callahan finished and ready for students Notre Dame two weeks from today when the and the decision was his alone. Senior Staff Reporter until second semester. Admin­Irish host Purdue, cited "personal reasons "All I can say is that it has been a great five istrators say they did not want and family considerations" for his resigna­years," said Devine, "and I want to be able to 
Due to an increased number to admit students at mid-year tion. say it was a good six years. My top priority of freshmen admitted, coupled but did not want to have the "I always felt I would be the first to know right now is to keep outside influences away with the summer fire at St. dorms go unoccupied for a when it was time for me to step down," said from this team so they can play the type of l::.dward's dormitory, overcrow­semester. Devine. "I want to spend more time with my football they are capable of playing." ding on campus has emerged as According to Fr, Michael family." There has been much speculation as to a problem this fall. To partially Heppen, Housing director, Dt:vine reportedly reached his decision in Devine's replacement, but Joyce-who will alleviate the crowding, admin­freshmen being housed in Villa early August after months of deliberation. eventually make the decision -will be istrators have housed 34 fresh­Angela are "enthusiastic" to After notifying University President Fr. unavailable for comment until he returns men at Villa Angela on U.S. 31 come to Notre Dame. He de­Theodore Hesburgh and executive Vice­from his visit to Israel in early September. and converted study lounges clined comment, however, on President Fr. bdmund P.Joyce, who serves as Devine, meanwhile, has not announced any 
into student residences on the matter of whether the 34 chairman of the faculty athletic board, future plans. "I really don't think I'll campus. women had been wait-listed Devine was given liberty to handle the coach again," he said. "I won't say never, 
University administrators first and then accepted last announcement as he saw fit. because I know there will be opportunities, have leased Villa Angela, a for­minute. "I don't think it's really Shortly after lunch last Friday, Devine but I'm about 98 percent sure I'll never coach mer residence for brothers pertinent to go into that in­received a phone call from Dave Diles ofABC again." teaching at St. Joseph's High formation," he said. Sports, who had heard reports that Devine In five years at Notre Dame, Devine has School, from the Fort Wayne/ Freshman arriving Thursday was planning to resign. Diles was prepared to compiled a 44-14-0 coaching record. His South Bend diocese until]an. 1. afternoon, however, confirmed make the announcement on national tele­teams are undefeated in bowl competition, The rationale behind the decis­that they had all been wait-lis­vision. winning the 1976 Gator and the 1978 and '79 ion, according to Villa Angela ted, rejected for admission to Devine then made a deal with Diles and Cotton Bowls. His 1977 squad won the rector Delores Ward, is that the the University and then called ABC. If the network would withhold from national championship with an 11-1 record. new dorms under construction mid June and offered admis-making the announcement until later in the Devine is Notre Dame's 23rd head football 
day, Devine would go before a live national

on the North Q~ad will not be [continued on page 8] coach. 


~----~--_ 
Monday, August 25, 1980 -page 2




News Brie/§ 

~==~======~==============================~ 
by the Observer and Associated Press 
The bold Israeli government gave pre­liminary approval yesterday to a hydroelectric project that would channel water from the Mediterranean to the Dead Sea. Arabs in the Israeli-occupied WestBankoftheJordanRiver and Gaza Strip are strongly opposed to the plan. 
energy Minister Yitzhak Modai said the station would save Israel $800 million in oil imports annually at current world prices. 
It could provide 18 percent of Israel's current peak-hour power needs without raising the level of the Dead Sea, where water evaporates so quickly that the lake is the highest in mineral content in the world, he said. 
A 67-year-old retired funeral home director who supposedly raised marijuana plants "as a di­version," has been fined $1,000 and placed on two years' probation for possession of 400 plants. Henry Zopf was 
sentenced Thursday after pleading guilty before Judge James Scullary in District Court. Defense lawyer Cynthia Spinola said 
Zopf started gardening after he retired. "He needed a diversion and turned to growing marijuana. They were small plants and I'm sure he had no idea what he would do with them once the plants matured," she said. 
A local television station in Travers 
City, Mich., was scheduled to show the 1940 Ronald Reagan film Knute Rockne: All-American, but pulled the movie at the last minute for fear it would be required to provide equal time for Presi9ent Carter and candidate John Anderson. Instead, WGTU showed The Story ofSea Biscuit, starring Shirley Temple, ,Ls its Tuesday afternoon movie. "It's a good thing she's not running for anything this year," said station manager Foster Winters. 
Campaign workers for Rep. John B. Anderson sa1d yesterday they'll have more than enough voters' signatures to get their candidate on Indiana's presidential ballot this November. Between 15,000 and 20,000 signatures had been filed with county clerks around Indiana this week in time for the Friday deadline, Ann Rogers, an Anderson campaign spokeswoman, said. By late Friday afternoon, 4,000 to 5,000 of those signatures were certified, Ms. Rogers said. The Illinois congressman needs ,6,982 certified signatures of registered voters to be placed on the Indiana ballot. 
A house resolution introduced yesterday urges state election officials to ensure that absentee ballots are sent to the American hostages in Iran. Rep. Thomas B. evans Jr., R-Del., said the resolution would ask state officials to check whether any of the 52 hostages held since last Nov. 4 are registered voters in their states. Ifso, an absentee ballot would be forwarded to the U.S. embassy in Tehran for the hostages to vote in the November general elections. evans said, "This action would show both our fellow citizens and their captors that America has not forgotten them, and their precious rights ofdemocracy cannot be locked out by a bunch ofinternational hoodlums." 


Consumer prices did not rise 
overall in July, the first month without an increase in more than 1 3 years. Buta new burst offood price increases signaled that more inflation is on the way. The Labor Department reported yesterday that the Consumer Price Index held steady in July, mainly because the cost ofbuying a home dropped for the first time in seven years. Food prices shot up by 0.9 percent-the biggest increase since March-and a dramatic rise in wholesale food costs in July has yet to work its way to consumers. When mortgages and the cost of homes are excluded, prices rose 0.6 percent during the month, a rate that, if continued for 12 months, would mean annual inflation of 7.4 percent. Overall consumer prices increased 13.3 percent in 1979 and at an annual rate of12.6 percent during the first seven months ofthis year. The index in July stood at 247.8 before seasonal adjustment. That means goods and services that could be bought in 1967 for $100 cost $247.80 last month. The 1967 dollar is not worth 40.4 cents. 

The first court-martial ofanAmerican returning from a Vietnamese prisoner ofwar camp was to begin today with Marine Pfc. Robert Garwood facing charges of desertion and collaboration during the nearly 14 years he spent in the Southeast Asia country. 
Outside the tiny courtroom at Camp Lejeune, N.C., where C ,rwood will be court-martialed is a bright red wall poster urging leathernecks to "Stay Proud, Stay Marine." 

Mostlv sunny today with highs in the~ mid to upper 80's. fair and warmer tonight with lows in the mid 60's. Partly cloudy Tuesday with a slight chance of afternoon ·thundershowers. 
Inside Monday 


Your first taste of an all-nighter 
There's a lot to be said for composing prose at 4 a.m. One thing that certainly should not be said is that it is an ideal time to write or think. One thing that may be said is that you will find yourself doing it often. 
And that, perhaps, is the sagest "welcome" message I can give you. In fact, I find myself at · this very moment composing prose I thought­
for sure, for sure -I would write in the casual bliss of mid-afternoon. But these are the times that try men's souls. They are also the times when one digresses with frightening frequency, allowing one's thoughts to meander into literary allusions pertinent to the plight ofplans and the late hour's merciless rush toward deadline. For instance ... 
"The best laid plans of mice and men aft gang aglay" (Robert Burns of course). Or perhaps something appropriate to the late hour and deadline. Dr. Samuel Johnson, whom you should get to know, once said: "When a man knows he is to be hung in a fortnight, it concentrates his mind wonderfully." Wonder­ful. 
Ah, but why do I stray from my subject. "Is it perfume from a dress ... that makes me so digress?" (that is T.S. eliot, but don't worry about him until you're either a junior or very sure ofyour sexual nature). One couldgo on, but mounds of literary allusions do not a piece of journalism make, and that is what I have been told to do: make journalism, not allusions. It's kind of like "make love, not war," only· in reverse. 
Now, just between you and me, we have probably lost ev~ryone at this point we wanted to lose along the way. So let's get to the point ofall this, which they wouldn't have been interested in reading anyway. 
No matter what you had been led to believe by well-meaning but hopelessly naive high school guidance counselors, college is not where one goes to earn a degree guaranteeing a high-paying "starting salary." That's utter crap. Anyone around here who tells you that, professors included (gasp), are people whom you shouldn't trust. 
No, if the truth be told, college will do more 
for you than simply show you the way to those 
gold paved avenues called "career opportunity." 
College will teach yo_u how to get yourself in a 
bind, then get back out again. This lesson will 
serve you well in "the real world," a concept 
bandied about quite a bit in college, a place 
never so neatly defined as a syllabus, an environ 
never quite so predictable as a South DiningHall 
dinner. 
A lot ofconcepts are bandied about in college. And most concepts, though they float and flail in the difficult realm of the abstract, sincerely attempt to arrive at a conclusion that makes the "real world" more concrete, more meaningful, 


Mark 
Rust 
Managing Editor 

more more, Journalism makes that attempt too. Sometimes it is ari exercise in simple concrete­ness; making economics comprehensible, put­ting Palestinian "terror into historical perspec­tive. Sometimes it is an exercise in commentary; shedding light on the human situation by showing the relationship between a ghastly fire and crowded dormitories. And sometimes it seeks to entertain by reflection; connecting thoughts in the night with an overall scheme ofa college education. Pretty presumptuous, huh? 
Our philosophy at The Observer remains one of staunch committment to.the ideals and cannons ofjournalism: accuracy, fairness, accountability. We also try to stir the coals of thoughtful criticism, as any intelligent publication needs to do. TheInside column is a little ofthat intellectu­al fire. Generally we will add to the reportage you may find on the frot).t page or substantiate the opininions you will read in the editorials. Or we may just accent the crisp perceptions that entertain on the features pages. Or, as in today's column we may just meander. 
But there's a method to our madness, and in it you may just find your first model of a time­honored collegiate exer.cise: writing under dead­line pressure. You see, the point of this column can be outlined as though it were a lecture on a blackboard. First, you do what you must to fulfill a requirement. Next, you reflect on your predic­ament until literary insight grabs hold and takes over. Then you feed yourself intellectually with the notion that most ofthe guidance you receive for your $6,000 plus per year is depressing but very, very wrong. Finally, you console yourself in the knowledge that the real world is real, its ebb and flow far removed from the mundane concerns of academia. Thus it can be said jour­nalism is the remedy for a multitude of non­sequiturial sins. 
But there is a larger lesson here. Within the next week you will look at each individual syllabus handed you by your professors. You will listen soberly to their wise and careful admon­ishments to "not fall behind" or to "start your paper now." You will nod gravely. You will absorb their countless examples of poor foolish students who, thinking they were immune to last minute dashes, entered upon the three-little­piggie syndrome, whereby they played until the wolfcame calling. Finally, you will forget every­thing they said and find yourself, as the sun comes up, resorting to analogies from childrens tales. 
There's a lot to be said for concluding prose at 7 a.m. 
nestgn Editor ........ Paul Mullaney Mark Rust Night Technician . ... Ann Monaghan News Editors ........ Tom Jackman Mark Rust Copy Editor ........... Lynne Daley Editorials Layout . .... Mike Onufrak Features Layout ...... Molly Woulfe Kate Farrell Ad nestgn. ......... Mike Holsinger Deirdre Murphy Jim Rudd Typists ........... Mary Beth Budd John Higgins Many others Photographer ... ........ John Macor  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is8ubllshed by the students of Notre arne and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The ObJ&rver, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage Jlaid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  



MONDAY­
SATURDAY: lpm-3am 




WELCOME BACK 

OSCAR 
I nterhall requires insurance 
every student who participates in any intramural orclub sport activity must be covered by some form of insurance policy. Participants in non-contact in· tram ural sports must fill out the medical consent, insurance and release from a­vailable in the non-varsity office, C-2 in theACC. 
Students planning to participate in a contact intram.ual sport (football, soc­cer, basketball and hockt-I ·r a club sport must bring proof of insurance to the non-varsity office. 
These insurance requirements must be met before a student is eligible to participate in any activity. Failure to comply will jeopardize the status of the hall and/or team ofany ineligible player. 

OPEN 



Monday, August 25, 1980-page :..
The Observer 
SANDOCK'S FURNITURE, CARPET-WAY 

SALE HOURS: 



ALL CARPET 

••• of all 1st quality LEES and CABIN CRAFTS carpeting 
*l PlllDE.IIIOil\UI Of VlUIEt 
·*A REVELRY OF SAVING! 
Colouallees! Titanic Cabin Crafts! The ware­
houM of tfle11e glant11 were glutted wltfl remnant•, 
loaded with roll-end11, plece11 accumulated from tflelr greate1t 11ea11on ever, In such profu1lon as to throttle tflelr operation• near-completely. They had to Mil and 11ell quickly -and that'll when "CARPR-WAY" stepped ln. Wltfl a dramatic, hard ca1h wipe-out offer, we bought every •Ingle piece we could at bare rock-bottom-and now we pall the 1avlng11 on to youl 
BUY NOW FOR •••
PERFECT FOR • • • 
FLOORS
BEDROOMS BATHROOMS 

WALLS KITCHENS 
STEPS
BASEMENTS 
DECKS 


Sowy No lay-a-way, No hold _.,.., No flh-or mall ovden, All llubject to prior 110le, All prlclnt Ia ­caah cnl carry ballh, AI dlmMWoM •• mlnln-unw. 
FREE FRONT DOOR PARKING 
* CHOOSE FROI1700 PIECES! 
* PLEASE-NO DEALERS 
• EVERY STYLE IMAGINABLE -­
Shag, twl11t, plu11h,loop, tw_d, 
cut/uncut, mlltl-levelflgured 
• BRING YOUR ROOM SIZES 
Snap up the11e values on the spat 
• LEES -CABIN CRAFTS QUALITY 
Our Country's finest, most famous mills 
DELIVERY AVAILABLE 
Moderate Charge 
INSTALLATION AVAILABLE 
IDEAl FOR ••• 
TRAILERS COnAGES CLOSETS STATION WAGONS 

E.~"""'l FINANCING 
• AVAILABLE 
PERFECT FOR • • 
DORMITORIES APARTMENTS STUDY ROOMS ANY ROOMS 
OTHER REMNANT GROUPS NOT LISTm 
• EVERY COLOR IMAGINABLE 
Ivory Carmel Jonquil Orten...
Gokl 

Apricot Sautem. ,......... 
Pink ........ 
O....._nla

S..cldle A•ocado Abtln­
....u. 

Dnotclen ............. floml....
lime II•CJU• 

Jade ....... .......... lluoloeR ,_ltlcle 
Coin ..,.... ..,,..o.....
c ...... Paprika 

Capper Saville Hyoclnlft Cloudy .lode
ou... 

Jon11ull Heliotrope frolled coc­Nauva•
Gr-n 

Corte& Rod ....co lluelelgo Purple Honey Oretlon Olive
A&toe Irona:• lvyOr-n Autumn Magenta Maoulerln MontevoSontllCarmel 
lron11e 

Saddle Ocean Green Mufflnlolge
While Roval 

........ TurquoiM White Grape
Azure Morin• 

AREA'S LARGEST CARPET SPECIALTY STORE 
N D NO ST. MARY'S) 31 lHIWAY BETwEEN •• A DIRECTiONS: TAKE U.S. S SloE oF H•wAY AS N.D. SANDOCK'S, ON AME 
N To

ORTH . 

The Observer Monday, August 25, 1980 -page 4 

Campus construction on 
dorms, science hall continues 
The contractor yesterday said Notre Dame t..redi.t Union es­by John McGrath they can have all the brickwork timates that the her organiza­News Edrtor done in seven working days," tion's new $1.2 million struc­Dedrick said. "Right now the ture is approximately one-third 
Several new buildings have building looks pretty rough, complete. risen into the Notre Dame sky­but there really isn't that much The 18,000-square foot facil­line since the end of the Spring ity, iocated across Douglas Rd.
left to do with it." 

semester,and work is slated to from the present office, will
The "outboard" dormitory is 
begin soon on yet another. feature a drive-in capacity for
only 50-60 percent complete,
Most visible of the projects two cars-a service not offered
however. That structure is not 
are the two new dormitory at the present location.
expected to be ready for oc­
structures adjacent to the Li­Occupancy is slated for next
cupancy until June 1981. 
brary and the Stepan Chemical May.
Workmen have only gotten as 
Hall, located to the rear of Dedrick also outlined this
far as the third floor deck on Nieuwland Science Hall. that planned four-floor build­summer's dorm renovation Work is approximately 75 work. Five dorms, Sorin, St.
ing. The total cost of the twin 
percent complete on the in­bdwards, Walsh, Badin, and
dorm project is approximatelyboard"twin" dormitory nearest $7 million, and is being financ­Carrol were targeted for over $1 to the North Dining Hall, ac­
ed by a donation from mall de­million worth of renovations. 
cording to Donald Dedrick, di­With the exception of St.
veloper Frank]. Pasquerilla of 
rector of the Physical Plant. He bdward's, Dedrick described
]ohnstown, Pa bach of the 
added that plans call for that 
dorms is to house 250 students. the work as "essentially com­
structure to be ready for occu­pleted."
It is expected that women will Macor] pancy by January. Three construction compan­
occupy both halls. 


LOCK'S LIQUO·R WORLD 
277-3611 Big 3 Liter 
"RUM""VODKA" 

''BLENDED Carlo Rossi Wine 
Castillo White WHISKEY''CrownRusse Label
$3.99 
750ml Philadelphia11iter 1 liter

burgundy vin rose 


$3.99 
$5.39 
$5.77 
MILLER LITE BEER RED, WHITE& BLUE 
BEER ) .
$7.79 
4. 99 24-12ozcans
24-12ozcans PRICES GOOD WHILE SUPPLIES LAST 
NOTRE DAME ''PARTY'' HQ 
we.£coKte FResHKtew 
Sfudacf clcetk6 wked 
Auten 

wilk SHtC-KV ·9.V. 
1 mile North 
SMG ,-;!' 
, ."' 
i1Jl 

Georgetown Shopping Center 52303 Emmons Rd. 
XD 

277-5811 . . 
I mile South 426 N. Michigan 234-3185 


. Dedrick estimated that work ies performed the work -the 
first stage ofa program to bring

is now 50 percent complete on · some of the older residence
the $9 million Stepan Chemical halls up to modern standards.
Hall. The 106,000-square foot The work included the in­complex is expected to be com­stallation of two stairwells in
pleted sometime in 1982. The Badin Hall. Those plans caused
new building will accomodate controversy in the Spring be­
classrooms and laboratories cause they necessitated the
now located in the old Chemical eviction ofTony's Shoe Shop, a _bngineering Building. 
privately owned business locat­Work is expected to begin 

ed in the Southeast corner ofsoon on a new structure to 

the building.

which will house the studios of In the aftermath of the fire at
WNDU radio and television. 
St. l:.dwatd's, deanup work has

The building will he locateLi been going on in that structure
near the intersection ofU.S. 31 in preparation for rebuilding.
and Dorr Road in the vicinity of Although he could give no cost
the Burke Memorial Golf estimates, Dedrick estimatedCouse. 
that work on rebuilding the hallt.arly plans unveiled in the could begin Oct. l.

Spring called for a 30,000­square foot structure, which would double the present size of WNDU's facilities. 
Band holds 

Construction is expected to take 12 months. 
auditions 

It had been expected that All\ persons interested ingroundbreaking would take auditioning for the Universityplace at mid-summer, but plans band should register at thehave been held up. According 
Washington Hall band office as to Greg Giczi, director of pro­soon as possible. Final audi­

motions for WNDU, bids are tions will be held Wednesday;expected to be let soon, h6w­the rain date is Thursday.
ever, with a probable start of Practices are already in pro­construction following soon af­gress, and more informationterward. 
can be obtained at WashingtonRuth Kelly,~ma?ager of the 

Hall. 
21 9-283-4395
8-5 MON.-SAT 
EVENINGS BY APPT 

UNIVERSITY HAIR STYLISTS 
FULL SERVICE UNISEX CENTER 
HAIR CUTTING SPECIALISTS 
BADIN HALL · NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 46556NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY 

~Rocco's Hair Styling r!:l~q h» happy to announce that 
"''!i DICK STILLSON 
"Indiana Barber and Styling Ch~mpion" 
has joined the c9mpliment staff of Ms. Linda L. Neville and Ms. Jackie Pletcher and N Ferraro 
531 N. Michigan St., South Bend 


-

The Observer Monday, August 25, 1980 -page 5 
Reagan, Bush confer on apparent contradiction 
LOS ANGeLeS-George Bush, his mission to China in behalf of Ronald Reagan an ap­parent flop, arrived here yester­day to confer with the GOP presidential nominee and try to patch up their contradictory remarks over relations with the world'1> most populous nation. 
Reagan and Bush planned to meet privately today before holding a news conference on Bush's just-concluded three-day trip. 
The official New China News Agency said Bush had "failed to reassure China" about Reagan, and that his attempt was "can­celled out" by Reagan's renewed call for an official governmental relationship with Taiwan. 
In China, Bush had told re­porters that a Republican ad­ministration could not legally es­tablish a governmental liason office on Taiwan and, even if it could, had no intention ofdoing so. 
Bush bypassed reportersatLos 

Angeles International Airport, 
and was whisked away in a 
motorcade. At his hotel, he was 
brought in a back door, and 
refused to stop for questions. 
When a reporter shouted a question about the New China 
... St. Ed's 

[continued from page 1] 
lodging on an already over­crowded campus. 
According to Dedrick, re­construction work will attempt to approximate the original blueprints as closely as possi­ble. 
"We're going to try to be as faithful (to the original plans) as possible," Dedrick said. "We might even be able to install a mansard roof similar to the original one as cheaply or cheaper than a regular roof like the one on Cavanaugh." 
No cost estimates or com­pletion target dates were avai­lable, but Dedrick noted that cleanup work should be com­pleted within the next week, and rebuilding could begin as soon as Oct. 1. 
St. edward's Hall was built in 1882 to house Notre Dame's minim department, a type of boarding school for young boys. It was converted for use by University students in 1929 following the disconinuation of the minim department. 
News Agency account, Bush said complicated one, and the lang­over his shoulder:"W e sought an uage is so imprecise that you ~xchange of views." gotta know exactly what you mean by that." 
Reports from Peking follow­ing his departure said he he had He suggested that tht! whole received a stern message from controversy stemmed from Chinese leaders that a Repub­Semantic confusion over over lican reversal of policy on the difference between such Taiwan, with whom the United words as non-governmental, of­States maintains only unofficial ficial and official. trade and cultural relations; · 
"Our effort is to continue tocould jeopardize-a developing improve relations with theanti-Soviet alliance between People's Republic and yet recog­China and the United States. 
nize that the people on Taiwan 
But Bush, at a stopover in are, indeed, friends. And that's Honolulu, said that when "You what it's about," Bush said. sit down with the top leaders of 
In Peking, BJJsh told SenatorChina and have a very frank Vice Premier Deng Xiaopingexchange ofviews, it's got to be a that a Republican administration big plus." 
office on Taiwan and had no 
As for Reagan's statements on intention ofdoing so ifit could. U.S.-Taiwan relations and a possible U.S. liason office-in Taiwan, Bush commented, "Look, this subject is a very 
Police issue charges on unknown couple 
SOUTH BeND, IND, (AP) ­It's a case involving diamonds, a young woman, doz_ens of false names and forged addresses; police are ready to issue char­ges, ifthey only could figure out who to charge. 
A man calling himself Dr. 
A.W. Stephens, or Michael Colins, is in custody in this southwest Indiana city along with a woman who says she is either Sharon Miller or Kathy Winn. 
Miller-Winn told police she is 23 and from Springs, Ark. Stephens-Collins said he is 29 and from Kissimmee, Fla. 
"We have confirmed that Stevens is not the man's real name. That name was traced to an obituary found in a looseleaf notebook, one of many obi­tuaries found. This man is a real slick operator, the slickest I've seen yet;" city detective Darrell Grabner said. 
The two were arrested Wed­nesday as they fled from a jewelry store in Mishawaka, 
apparently  conspirators  in  a  
scheme  to  acquire  diamonds  
from  area  jewelers by using  

either forged credit cards or cer­tified checks. The pair attempted to make their get-away in a car police say 
was stolen from New Mexico. 
The woman's role in the scheme is not clear yet, Grab­ner said. But so far police have discovered about 50 different names with birth certificates, drivers licenses and various type ofregistration in the man's belongings. 
The identities have linked him to Arkansas, Virginia, New Jersey, Rhode Island, Florida, Massachusetts, Alabama, New Mexico, Oklahoma and India­na. 
"The man apparently came to town, opened a checking ac­count at a Marshall County bank (20 miles south of South Bend) using a Bremen address that listed a SteRhens as a resident. He then apparently made up business cards iden­tifying him as a doctor," Grab­ner said. 
"The man would pick out his aliases from people who were roughly his age and who died in locations other than where they were born," he said. 
It appears that this may be the man's first arrest, Grabner said. FBI bureaus and police depart­ments across the country have been asked to help determine his identity. 
Sacred Heart Parish (we who worship in the crypt)Needs: Musicians Catechists vocalists youth leaders guitarists afew to assist in winds a religious education programSunday Mornings contact: ~erry, 8874 or Mrs. Bernard, 7512  


RIVER CITY RECORDS 
N~rthern Indiana's Largest Selection of Albums &Tapes 
50970 U.S. 31 North 3 Miles North of Campus Next to Al's S'-'permarket 
;.. . l 

()pen until10:00 p.m. 7 nights a week. 
ND/SMC checks cashed up to $20.00 over purchase amount 
Record Crates Available 
..., 

Giant Record Posters Available 
All Cut-Out~ $1.00 Off! 
All Blank Tapes $1.00 Off NO LIMITI (until September 1) (we carry TDK, Maxell, BASF, Memorex) New Releases: 
The CarsYes 
Rossington-Collins
George Benson 

Urban Cowboy
Elvis Presley Paul Simon The Kinks Pete Townshend Eddie Money Santana Peter Gabriel The Rolling Stones Christopher Cross Charlie Daniels Pat Benatar Jeff Beck Jackson Browne Blue Oyster Cult Chicago 
Concert Tickets: The Cars, sept. 11, NO­new issue: The River City Review 
I-.·~~---~--------~---------~---..,
I . / I Il 

I 
I 
t

' I I $1.00 OFF
I I I I I 
I 

I any album or tape
I I purchase with this coupon.
River City Records 50970 U.S. 31 North 277-4242 
I 
I 

L~------~----~~-~~-----------J 


Monday, August 25, 1980 -page 6 

Hesburgh entets 27th year 
Father Hesburgh's chief contri­bution on the national level has been in the area of civil rights. Appointed to the U.S. Commis­sion on Civil rights by President ~wight 0. bisenhower when the commission was established in 1957, he was named its chairman by President Richard M. Nixon in 1969 and served in that capacity until his resignation at Nixon's request in November, 1972. Notre Dame, with the assistance of the Ford Foundation, has es­tablished on campus a Civil Rights Center 'which will promote the cause of human rights in this country and abroad. 
Nixon's successor as, the na­tion's chief executive, Gerald Ford, appointed Father Hesburgh in 1974 to his nine­member board charged with ad­ministering clemency to Vietnam War draft evaders and deserters. 
Since leaving the~ civil Rights commission, Notre Dame's pres­ident has been very active as chairman of the Overses Devel­opment Council, a Washington­based private organization formed in 1969 to promote ef­fective aid to underdeveloped countries. He has also traveled widely in Third and Fourth World areas, often on assignment from the Rockefeller Foundation, which he joined as a trustee in 196 3 and of which he became chairman of the board in 1977. He formerly served on the President's General Advisory Committee on Foreign Assis­tance and is a director of the Council on Foreign Relations. 




Many of his recent writings, in­cluding The Humane Imperative, published by the Yale University' Press in 1974, stress interdepen­dence ofthe earth's peoples as the key to human survival in a time of shrinking resources. As a member of the board of the Chase Manhattan Bank, he has empha­sized investment by transnational corporations in underdeveloped countries. 
Two major developments at Notre Dame during his admin­istration were the reorganization of the University's governance under lay control, accomplished in 1967, and the introduction of coeducation at the undergraduate level in the fall of 1972. 
Father Hesburgh's leadership in education in recent years has been reflected in his work as president of the International Federation of Catholic Univer­sities, whichheheadedfrom 1963 to his resignation in 1970, and as a member of· the Kerr-Carnegie Commission on the Future of Higher r..ducation, the key na­tional study group on higher ed­ucation's problems and promise which completed his work in 1974 . 
Sixty-one colleges and univer­sities have conferred honorary degrees on Father Hesburgh, a­mong them Harvard, Yale, Columbia, Princeton, Danmouth, St Louis, UCLA, Michigan State, Northwestern, Illinois, Indiana, LeMoyne, Fordham, Wabash, Brandeis, the University. of Southern California, the 1Catholic University ofSantiago (Chile) and 
Notre Da_me Prestdent Fr. Theodore Hesburgh 
the University of Vienna 
(Austria). 

HighligHting a long list of special awards given Father Hesburgh is on the Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest ci­vilian honor, bestowed on him in 1964 by President Lyndon B. Johnson. Among groups which have honored him are the National Conference of Christians and Jews, the Urban Coalition, the American Jewish Committee, the Indiana Bar Association, The United States Navy, and the National Institute of Social Sciences. He is an e­lected member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the National Academy of hdu­cation, and the American Phil­osophical Society. 
Father Hesburgh was born in Syracuse, N.Y., on May 25, 1917, the son of Anne Murphy Hesburgh and Theodore Bernard Hesburgh, an executive of the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company. (A brother, James Hesburgh, was graduated from Notre Dame in 1955, received his M.B.A. from Harvard in 1960 and now is President of Intercole Automa­tion in Los Angeles.) Father Hesburgh has two sisters, Mrs. Robert O'Neill, Cazenovia, New York, and Mrs. John Jackson, Syracuse, N.Y. A third sister, Mrs. Alton Lyons, Oneida, New York, died in 1957. Both his parents are dead. 
He was educated at Notre Dame and the Gregorian University in Rome, from which he received a Bachelor of Philosophy degree in 1940. He was ordained a priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross in Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus June 24, 1943, by Bishop John F. Noll of Fort Wayne. Following his ordi­nation, Father Hesburgh contin­ued his study ofsacred theology at the Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C., re­ceiving his doctorate (S.T.D.) in 1945. He joined the Notre Dame fac1,1lty the same year, and served as -chaplain to World War II veterans on campus in addition to his duties in the theology de­partment. He was appointed head of the department in 1948, and the following year was named ex­ecutive vice president in the ad­
mmtstration  of  Rev. John  J.  
Cavanaugh,  C.S.C.,  University  
president.  

At the age of 35 inJune, 1952, Father Hesburgh was appointed the president ofNotre Dame. His administration has marked one of the greatest periods of physical growth and internal academic development in the University's 135 year history. Today he heads an institution with a beautiful campus of 1,250 acres, a disting­uished faculty of more than 700 scholars, and an enrollment of some 8,800 student.'> from every state in the Union and more than 60 foreign countries. 
Since Father Hesbur!!h became president, Notre Dame has erec­ted two dozen major buildings, including the 14-story, $9 million Memorial Library which opened in 1963; a $3 million Computing Center and Mathematics Build­ing; a $2.2 million Radiation Research Building built on cam­pus by the U.S. Atomic hnergy Commission; a $1.5 million Center for Continuing r..ducation; Lewis Hall, a residence for wo­men; an $8 million Athletic and Convocation Center; Hayes­Healy Center, the $1 million home ofNotre Dame's new grad­uate business administration pro­gram; a University Club and two high-rise residence halls, and the Paul V. Galvin Life S<j,ence Center, which includes the new quarters of Lobund Laboratory for germfree animal research and the departments of biology and microbiology. 


-----~·---------~-~ ---~-----~ 

Monday, Au~t 25, 1980-page 7 
ND, SMC tuition costs rise again 
Riehle will centralize SG 
By Tim Vercellotti 

A more centralized voice in student affairs is the immediate goal ofstudent government this year, according to student body President Paul Riehle. Riehle hopes to effect reforms in the current system, the official-
voice of Notre Dame students. 
His plans are based on the 
conversion of the Hall Presid­
ent's Council into a student­
senate. 
According to Riehle, the present student government is too decen-tralized. "I want to make the HPC the center of the student gov<:rnment. This would give the student body wider representation, as well as a more effective voice in the administration," Riehle explained. Also, Riehle feels that a student senate would give an element of continuity to the work of the student 
11;overnment. 
SMC student government 
The Saint Mary's Student Government is in a process of change and experimentation this year. According to Presi­dent Kathleen Sweeney, "We are experimenting with many new ideas. A !otis in the drawing 
stages  that should  come  to­ 
gether  in  the  next  week  or  
two."  

The judicial System under­went restructunng during the 1979-80 academic year. These changes will be announced and explained to the students in the first weeks of classes, according to Sweeney. 
The Student Assembly, de­scribed as the "congress" of the Student Government, was dis­banded last spring. The Student Government is nowJonducting 
. a self-study to decide if it will be 
reinstituted or replaced. 
"The Student Government brings many of the disjointed areas ofstudent life together. It is involved in community af­fairs, social justice and com­bining the academic life with the social life at Saint Mary's," explained Sweeney. 
The Board of Governance is the main governing body of the student government. Accord­ing to the Student Government Manuai,"The purpose of the Board of governance shall be to act as .1 steering committee by discussing problems relating to 
Student  Government  and  by  
making  recommendations  to  
student  committees.  It  shall  
(continued on page 8)  

Retorms in the make-up of the government would involve changes in the govenrment's constitution, which can only be done m a con-stitutional convention. Riehle hopes to gather ideas for governmental 
reforms through open meetings, to be held in the residence halls. 
The student government can be worked out through these for­ums and then it will be for­rmalized through the conven­tion," Riehle stated. 
The purpose of a student government, regardless of its form, is the service of students. Riehle said that this year's student government has both short and long term plans. Among these are a recycling program, and a student social center. 
Kiehle intends to establish office hours soon, and he en­courages all students, es­pecially freshmen and transfer students to stop in at his office on the second floor of La­Fortune. 
an average of$60 per semester. 
The cost increase at Saint Mary's is not as substantial as it appears, according to Student Accounts associate Diana Barnes. "The tuition increase is not yearly, therefore theunt is 
not unusually high,"  Barnes  
said.  
As  a  result  of the  cost in­ 

creases at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, more available funds have been allotted for financial aid, officials at both schools said. 
Available scholarship _f1:1nds 

VOCATION COUNSELING 
HOLY CROSS FATHERS 
I

0 How Do I Know if I Have a Vocation to the Priesthood? 
P What Is the Academic and Formation Program for Becoming a Priest? 
C What Scholarships and Financial Aid Are Available for Seminary Training? 
0 What Are the Various Apostolic Ministries of the Holy Cross Priests? 
0 How Do I Pray if I'm Thinking of a Vocation to the Priesthood and I'm Not Sure? 
For a Personal, Confidential Interview with No Obligation Please Write or Call the Vocation Director: 
' 
Rev. Andre Leveille, C.S.C. Box 541 Notre Dame. Ind. 46556 
For Appointment Call Between 8:30AM-4:30PM (219) 283·6385. 


for Saint Mary's increased trom $330,095 .to $336,310. Notre Dame received an increase in financial aid funds proportion­ate to the increase in tuition costs, according to Joseph Russo, director offinancial aid. 
Russo added that financial aid has always been a problem at Notre Dame. "There is never enough money to assist all of the students who apply," Russo said. "The problem worsened due to both the increase in tu­ition costs and the state of the economy." 



EATING IDRINKING &~TtfER PlJEASAMTJ\IES 

LUNCH Mon.-Sat. 11:00-4:30 
DINNER Mon. -Thurs. 5:00 -10:00 Fri. -Sat. 4:30 -ll:00 Sun. 12:00 -10 :00 

PHONE271-6368 ACROSS FORM UNIVERSITY PARK MALL ON GRAPE ROAD 

.·•Jot·..~.!. l.·.,' f I .:.t • ~. • • •; a."~ fT; ;:"; 
. 

Farley Welcoming Committee greets freshman. [Photo by
john MacorJ 
by Ke/li Flint Senior Staff Reporter 
Both the University ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's College have increased tuition costs for the 1980-81 scho0l term. 
Undergraduate tuition at Notre Dame has increased $500, up to $4630 a year, while room and board costs increase $250 for an average fee of $1765. 
Salary and benefits improve­ments for University employees and higher food and energy costs were cited as contributing factors to the increase by the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh~ University president. Hesburgh added that a review of 35 peer institutions revealed that Notre Dame's tuition ranked 28th and room and 35th in board. The increase in tuition and room and board costs is more than in previohs yeah, according to Richard Conklin, director of Information Services. "The cost increase is more substan­tial than in previous years, but inflation has also increased more substantially," Conklin said. 
Tuition at Saint Mary's College increased from $1775 to $1975 per semester, while board increased $30 and rooms 
r----------_,_--~-,,-_________________ 
~ The Observer Monday, August 25, 1980 -page 8 
[cont£nued from page 1] cerned, they're not offcampus.Freshlil.en sion. The arriving freshmen They're very much a part of also ex-pressed mixed feelings Notre Dame," he said. He also 
about what they consider "off said that parents of the Villa campus living" for their first Angela freshmen are "very semester at college. happy" that their daughters are Heppen holds, however, that coming to Notre Dame. 
to ll·ve 

women are not living off Ward, a Pennsylvania native 'campus. "As far as I'm con-and mother of three Notre 
0 ff cam.pus the 

taste ofthe Notre Dame academic lzfe-. [Phoio by john Macor] .
placement tests, encountering 
REF RIG ERA T 0 R, ice tray, ice cube, F U N, cold, chill, frozen, glacial, D R I N K S, arctic, Siberian, frostbitten, WARM TIMES, shiver, boreal, snow­bound E C 0 N 0 M Y, iciness, winter, goose flesh, horripilation, L A T E 
'sNACKS. 

In this "Indiana Wilderness" conveniences are few and pleasures small. 
Why not indulge in something that will make those cold nights warmer and give that 9 X 12 you call home a personal touch? 
ESLINGER 
LEASE A REFRIGERATOR FROM EISLINGER NO Storage problems 2701 South Michigan 
NO Maintenance worries 
South Bend 
LOW Cost 

CALL 272-7503 
*Our refrigerators meet A L L University standards. "Jlgorn getnJmg 
*Delivery and pick up are FREE. the Jfoflte CDome 
h...
*Push button defrosting, large counter top, COtntnut\f,~ ... full freezer with door. 
*Spacious storage--4.6 cubic feet Dame graduates, said she had not had many apprehensive reactions from freshmen par­ents. She did acknowledge that she had received a negative reaction from one parent who expressed concern over the situation. 

"Precautionary security mea­sures are being taken. We're discouraging the girls from walking alone and at night," Ward said. 
Freshmen, however, reacted 
somewhat negatively to their 
residences. 

"I feel like I'll be left out of the excitement ofthe campus," one commented. 
Another woman said, "I didn't mind it (the arrangement) at first, but now that I'm here I see what I'll be missing." 
Freshmen further added that they think their living arrange­ments will hinder their social activities as well as their in­v()lvement in studentactivities. 
Heppen confirmed that an extensive shuttle program will be implemeted to enable the women to get to meals, classes and activities. 
"It is only for three months though,'' Ward commented. "I think that's why the girls are accepting this so well. They're looking forward to being in the new dorms next semester." Ward confirmed that Univer­sity administrators have "pro­mised" the women residences in the new dorms next semes­ter. 
Since the women must liter­ally hop on a bus to eat break­fast. freshmen also commented somewhat negatively on their eating arrangements at the South Dining Hall. 
"There's no food over here at all," one freshman commented. "It's an inconvenience to take a shuttle bus to dinner." 
Ward said that plans are underway to initiate a weekend breakfast program utilizing Villa Angela's operable kitchen 
and dining room. 
The rooms in which the freshmen are staying consist primarily of spacious singles. Several freshman did say, how­ever, that they would prefer having a roommate first semes­ter. 
"I guess will just be knocking on each other's doors a lot,'' a girl commented. 
To obtain her position as rector, Ward explained, she wrote a a letter to the University expressing an interest in "doing something." In the letter she included her work experience which was nursing, as well as her knowledge of the campus·. She said she was contacted lastJuly with the offer of Villa Angela rector. 
In addition to the situation at Villa Angela, campus dorms are also feeling the pressure of additional students. Residents ofSt. J:.dward's Hall are living at several dorms on campus. Stu­dents returning to dorms at both ND and SMC have ob­served that last year's baggage rooms and study lounges have now become student residen­ces. Housing authorities said a total of 20 rooms were renovated. 

Frosh advisor job challe~ging 
by Mary Leavitt 
the opportunities which are 
St. Mary's News Editor 
available at this time." The freshman office is 

The position of Freshman located in Room 121, LeMans Advisor is not usually thought 
Hall. 

to be the most glamorous job in the world by most, but for Susan Vanek, the job is a challenging one. Previously a member ofSaint Mary's faculty in the Modern Language de­partment, Vanek sees her new posjtion offreshman advisor as (continued from page 7) part of a natural progression towards which she has provide for communications worked. between differnet areas of stu­


"I have always· been interes­dent activity as well as serve in ted in freshmen and the special an advisory capacity to the problems they may meet with," nxecutive Committee of the Vanek said. Board of Governance." 
The freshman office offers The hxecutive Committee is services in five basic areas. It formed by the President of schedules the first semester Student Government, the Vice­programs for all incoming president for Academic Affairs fresh1nen. As the freshman and the Vice-president for proggresses through her first Student Affairs. year, the office will assist her The President, W:."thleen individually with academic Sweeney, is responsible for the planning. In addition, the effective operation of Student department offers help w{th Government and is the official study skills, keeps acaden)ic representative of the Student records for each freshman Body. 
HOURS
THE INSIDE OUTLET 
M-W-F 10-3Our direct factory contact enables us to offer furniture at super prices 
Tuesday 10-5 Thursday Saturday 10-4
furniture for the SMART Shopper 10-8 
Ir---------------------------,
MONEY SAVING COUPON 
I 
I ~
Bring this ad for a $5_.oo DISCOUNT 
I on any piece offurniture I
L---------------------------J
2122South Bend Ave. 277-7772 
Just 2minutes from Notre Dame Campus 

and provides information about 
academic policies. 

Vanek, who is herself a 
graduate of Saint Mary's Col­
lege, looks forward to working 
with the freshmen on a personal 
level. 

She denies that the Saint . Mary's woman can be stereo­typed. "There is not typical 
Saint Mary's student," Vanek 
commented. "bach one is an 
individual with her own per­
sonality." 

"I really want to play down 
the idea of freshman year as 
being so all important," 
Vanek continued. "It is just one 
step of many that will be 
taken by each student. The 
important thing is to keep an 
open mind and not overlook all 
The Vice-president for Aca­demic Affairs, Joan McCarthy, is responsible for all areas con­cerning student academic life. 
The Vice-president for Stu­dent Affairs, Nini Stol, is re­sponsible for all areas affecting student co-curricular life. 
Other members of the Board are the class presidents, hall presidents and c()mmissioners which represent all areas ofstu­dent life. 
The system of student rep­resentation begins at the level of the hall commissioners who bring the opinions of students to the attention of the hall councils. The Council then acts as the direct link between the students and Student Govern­ment. 



The Observer Monday, August 25, 1980 -page 9 


Duggan, 
Hickey 
serveSMC 
Dr. John M. Duggan has served as President of Saint Mary's College since 1975. As President, he is responsible for all the functions and operations of the college, ranging from the quality ofeducation to business affairs. 
Duggan represents Saint Mary's in the function ofpublic relations, travelling around the country for fund-raising and speeches. He is a member of the boards of directors of the In­dependent Colleges and Uni­versities of Indiana and the Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities. He also represents Saint Mary's as a member of the executive com­mittee of the Women's Coalition and the finance com­mittee of the college entrance hxamination Board. 
His community involvement includes appointments to the Board of Directors of the American National Bank and Trust Co., and the-Urban Co­alition of St. Joseph's County. Duggan also serves on the Board of the South Bend­Mishawaka Area Chamber of Commerce and boards of Memorial Hospital and the Alcoholism Council, Inc. 
As President of Saint Mary's, Duggan is also responsible to the Board of Regents, inform­ing its members of college issues and needs. He acts as a liason between the college and the Board. 
Dr. William A. Hickey, vice­president for academic affairs since 1972, is the Senior hxec­tive officer under the President. 

He serves as a member of the Academic Affairs Committee, 
Committee on Academic 

Rank and Tenure and the Budget Committee. With the Rank and Tenure committee and the Department Chairmen, Hickey annually reviews the faculty for advance in rank,r hiring and dismissals. He works in consultation with the College 
Academic Council, academic departments and student rep­esentatives to adapt curriculum to meet the aims ofthe College. 
, lVlllAS. t AI At t 110• 1)1<(1 IIOillll''>ll*o~t'>iltJ'"bl ..ll IIICill)lo(OM<•Oroil tMllloi!Ml>II"Ht \I JOI Hl... tt,llH'1811AII[Ho II•HIII' ~~~Ito >IN~trotN: '•Ill. 
•11II~Hllll 11\llltllli>lllt.OMIJ', u\\ll~~~l'o' IIICDIIII[()MI'lfrl>•"l,•~'"lllltiHllol"l "~llll!)l<ollliiiiOM '>0\.PIH!IO\Jio!IIIIICOI\Ir., ,,,, Wl•ltl Ohii4111~11·~1HI•I• i!IJ'ol ''• ,._, .~.Y'"'•'" 
ewsStaa 


8l. General Store 
""""'--..

• Water Beds • LEATHER GOODS 
·MAGAZINES 
·Newspapers 
·CLOTHING 
•Posters 
·CANDLES. 
, , • Jewelry 
•Cards 
•INCENSE 
•Rugs •Tapestry 
• Bedspreads 
·PIPES 
·PAPERS 
•Utes 
·NOVELTIES ·BOOKS 
• PARPHERNALIA 
113 West MonroeSt 
On block east 
of Bus Station 
ONE BlOCK IAIEST OF THE POST OFFICC 


WELCOME FRESHMEN ON CAMPUS TRAVEL SERVICES ... FirstBankTravel * Computerized Reservation System * Instant Airline and Amtrak Tickets * Individual and Group Tours * Auto Rentals BADIN HALL· Hours -8:30a.m.· 4:45p.m. Call -236-2674 or Ext 7080 FirstBank YOU DESERVE FIRST,RATE TREATMENT.'M  



Monday, August 25, 1980 -page 10 
Editorials 
Democratic convention: The inside story 
N.bw YORK-The story of ""'"let soon after Teddy's speech how Teddy Kennedy agreed to on Tuesday night, when the 
appear on the podium with Carter people realized that if Kennedy did not appear on
President Jimmy Carter last 

Thursday night is now leakin_g Thursday evening the Demo­
1tempers, pleas for unity, 

. d .b d d bout m n san ra s.  It. t 1-era tic 1s a a e  Party  would  be  torn  
ofall-night negotiations, frayed  
d  asunder.  Top aides  from  the  

an Carter and Kennedy factions 
the Garden before the applause for Carter starts. But we want Teddy when he arrives on the · podium to embrace Carter just like Menachem Begin does all of the time." 
"Teddy never embraces any­one. We might let you have a handshake ifCarteragrees to do away with tax shelters." 
Art Buchwald 
"How about the other arm? wall. Suppose we give Massa­Carter will stand on his right." chusetts a new naval base, three 
"Teddy hurt that arm sailing. Air Force bases and a contract Teddy doesn't want Cayter !if­to build a strategic bomber." ting either of his arms." 
. "That's worth Teddy making "VTould he lift it ifwe came out a fist, but not a smile." for his national health prog­ram?" "So what's he going to do 
when he arrives on the plat­form?"

"I'll have to check with him 
on 

that." The aide called Kennedy and then said to the
closeted themselves in a tent at "He'll shake hands with
• h Camp Waldorfon ParkAvenue. "We don't see any problem Carter people, "Teddy would Carter and Rosalynn and say... all-ntg t negO" Teddy's people knew they were with that. But we have to have hello to Amy and then wave to
like to do it but his doctors say
more assurance that there will the crowd."
dealing from strength. His chief he has to keep his hands in his
be party unity. We want Carter
negotiator said, "Our boy is pockets."
to be able to liftTeddy's arm ina "But thatwilllook terrible on
going back to Cape Cod unless
tiations, frayed he gets his $12 billion jobs victory gesture for the covers of "You have to give us some­television. We want to leave Time and Newsweek magazines." New York united. SurelyTeddy
program in the next budget." 
thing," the Carter man pleaded. can give us a little more that "It would look terrible ifTeddy that. What if he kisses Amy on
"It can't be done," the
Carter's top aide said, ''Ht:'s comes on the platform and the cheek? That can't hurt him
Kennedy negotiator said. "Ted­
tempers, pleas got it. But he has to be in keeps his hands down. What with his supporters."
has tennis elbow and it hurts
Madison Square Garden, out of about a smile? Can we count on
him to lift his arm over his "I'll check with him," the
sight while the President makes a big Kennedy smile when he's
head." Kennedy man said.
his acceptance speech." up there?" "He's been lifting his arm
for unity... The Kennedy man said, "Im-The aide spoke to Teddy and
"No way," the Kennedy man during the entire campaign." 
bl hung up the phone. "Teddy says
said. "Teddy stays in his hotel possi e. A smile from Teddy is he doesn't kiss children." 
non-negotiable."

1-------======suite until the speech is over." "Heonlygotthetenniselbow sometimes bitter after he decided not to put his "So all we've got so far," the recrimination. The negotiators "Okay, as long as he gets to name in for nomination." "You got us up against _the Carter man said, "is Teddy 
Requiredreading list for_ all ND-SMC freshmen 
Michael Onufrak 
Hesburgh. Published by And-A Sigma Omicron Sigma survey Saint Mary's College By Sr. Mary.bach year the Notre Dame-Thompson and published in· rews and McNeel and listed at of over 7,800 ND-SMC alumni Immaculate Creek. PublishedSaint Mary's branch of Sigma paperback by the Fawcett Pop­$12.95 in the bookstore. Not showed that former ND-SMC by Saint Mary's College at $6.50
Omicron Sigma, the nation's ular Library. Available in The 
· Hammes Bookstore on the yet available in paperback, Fr. grads who had chosen to give per copy. Useful to the Notre leading collegiate journalist's Notre Dame campus for $2.50 Hesburgh's book provides an this book to their younger Dame male who is interested in fraternity, publishes a list of plus tax. The Sigma Omicron excellent introduction to fresh-brothers and sisters had eaten understanding the historical men who do not immediately an average of 641 meals in an ethos inherited by freshwomen
· b k 'd Sigma committee found that
seven tmportant oo s cons1 ­grasp the concept of a "great ND or SMC dining hall. .bs­of Saint Mary's. 

ered essential reading for inco-many freshmen were unaware Catholic University." Also ex-pecially useful for freshmen 6The Doctor's Guzde to Tennis 
. . of certain cultural peculiarities plains the theory behind a cam-who move·off camp'us later in Elbow, Trick Knee and Othermmg ND-SMC freshmen. Thts and social habits manifested by 
-->us under constant construe-their college careers. Miseries ofthe Weekend Athlete 
year's list, selected over the many college students. The tion. .bxcellent gift for an in-4. Wake Up the Echoes: Notre Written by Leon Root, M.D. 
summer b'y the fraternity's committee, after studying sev­
coming freshman. Dame Football and Thomas Kiernan. Publish­
hxecutive Committee, pertains eral freshmen who had com­
3. The joy of Cooking By Ken Rappaport. Publish-ed by the David McKay Com­pleted Dr. Thompson's Written by Irma S. Rombau-ed by Strode Publishers and pany and available for $4.95.
particularly to problems and 

volume, concluded that the er and Marion Rombauer Bee-listed at $9.95. A good intro­Invaluable to freshmen whopitfalls which have consistently 
freshmen had "discovered what ker. Published by Signet and duction to women who might participate in Notre Dame and plagued ND-SMC freshmen all the fuss was about." available in paperback for be unfamiliar with this august Saint Mary's interhall football over the years. 2.The Hesburgh Papers: Higher $5.95. Another excellent gift tradition. .bxtremely useful to programs. 
Values in Higher Education book, most often exchanged men and women forced to room ?How to Get the job You Want l.Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas Writtenby Notre Dame Pres~ 
between new freshmen and with ND trivia freaks. By Melvin W. Donahue and
Written by Dr. Hunter S. 

idcnt Fr. Theodore M. their older brothers and sisters. 5.A Panorama: 1844-1977; John Meyer. Pubished by Spectrum Books at $3.95 per book. .essential for pre-medCasey b~ Charles Rodrigues students who are unable to obtain a place m medical school 



or pre-law intents who fare poorly on LSA T. A good book to buy now and save for later. 
All books .on this list are available in the Notre Dame Hammes Bookstore and can be obtained through Alpha Omi­cron Alpha in a leather-bound, gold-embossed special Freshman hdition. Direct all inquiries to The Observer. 
Michael Onufrak is editor of The Observer's editorials page. He is always looking for talented freshmen to write on his page. 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Sports Editor. ....................... Beth Huffman 
Editqr-in-Chief...................... Paul Mullaney Managing Editor . ....................... Mark Rust 
Features Editor . ....................... Kate Farrell 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Features Editor ...................... Molly Woulfe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily Photo Edit.or. .......................... John Macor 
Editorials Editor . ................. Michael Onufrak 
Senior Copy Editor .................... Lynne Daley 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reponed News Ed#or ......................... Pam Degnan 
Business Manager ..................... Greg Hedges 
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a News Edrtor . ....................... Tom Jackman 
Controller . .............................. Jim Rudd
majority of the Editorial Board. Commt-ntaries, opinions, and letters are the views News Editor . ....................... John McGrath 
Advertising Manager . ............... Mike Holsinger 
SMC Executive Editor................ Margie Brassil 
of their authors. C()lumn space is available to all members of the community, and Circulatwn Manager . .................... Tim Zanni 
SMC News Editor .................... Mary Leavitt 
the free expression of varying opinions-on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Production Mpnager . ................ Ann Monaghan 
~ 
I 
Observer Monday, August 25, 1980 -page 11 I I J
... Buchwald 
showing up on the podium. Is th!lt it?" 
"Isn't that enough? If you don't like the terms, he can always fly out before Thursday night." 



Features 
Monday, August 25, 1980 -page 12 

Insider's Guide to the Notre Dam,e C~pus 
IT 
i.D 5. 
CJ 



Ll Lt. 6. 
[TIJ 
1'+. 

One of the common complaints of newly-enrolled freshmen is that they are not fully acquainted with the campus. New students can be con­fused by the hundred-odd buildings. 
; Many must ask older students ques­
tions like, "Where are the fourth-~" floor classrooms in O'Shaughnessy. 
To help the new students and to make them feel like a part of Du lac, we present a tour of the attractions 
on campus. 
Freshman Year Office (1). 

In this building, we find the offices of hmil T. Hofman, Dean of Fr~sh­men, and his staff. Dr. Hofman ts available on Wednesday afternoons for ring-kissing. (Phone for an 
appointment). 


BJb 
13. 

/\1
I ~j--­
12.. 
St. Michael's Laundry (2). 
The University is particularly 
proud of the service they afford the 
male students with this ultra-modern 
laundry facility. As a further 
improvement, the laundry has just 
this year added a new boiling caul­
dron and rock. 

Administration Building (3). 
Under the Golden Dome are many of the vital departments of the University, among which are the Admissions Office (who due to a massive clerical screw-up admitted this freshmen class) and the Office of Student Accounts which never screws up when it comes to promptly sending tuition bills). 
"Freshman year is a very special time for young people, a time of transition. That transition must have a special approach," broil T. Hofman, Dean of Freshman Year of Studies, maintains. The Freshman Year of Studies, located next to Brownson Hall, seeks to make transitions easier, helping freshman to arrange their academic schedules and pro­viding needed guidance in adjust­ment, academics, long-range acade­mic and career planning and personal problems. 
According to Dean Hofman, the Freshman Year of Studies is, in ef­fect, a college for freshmen who have not yet declared their majors and formally enrolled in a University 'college.' 
''We provide whatever assurance is needed by them to be successful in the freshman curriculum," Dean Hofman explains. 
The department has a staff of advisors, each of whom is assisted by six or seven seniors, readily available as counselors. "Our freshmen don't have serious psychiatric probl~ms, but common problems such as homesickness," Hofman remarked. Talking with students who have "been there" can ease freshman anxieties. All freshman are encour­aged to take advantage of this op­portunity for personal guidance and assistance. 
I 

The Freshman Year ofStudies also sends out monthly newsletters to freshmen and provides free tutoring service, as well as self-instructing 
media aids, in Brownson Hall, through the Freshman Learning Resource Center. Tutors provide help "over and above what can be reasonably expected of the teach­ers," Hofman claims, and canstreng·­then communication between pro­fessors and students. The Resource Center is directed by Sandra Har­matiuk. 
The Freshman Year ofStudies also sponsors a number of activities for freshmen because "they're fun, and good options to the drinking scene," Hofman said. These options include cookouts, shopping tours, and Fresh­man Date night, details of which can be found in the freshman newsletter. 
To provide further aid for fresh­men adjusting to college life, a booklet by Hofman offering tips from paper-writing to partying, will be distributed to every Notre Dame freshman. Hofman promises the booklet is backed by "thirty years' experience." 
The Freshman Year of Studies is open from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. 
Saint Mary's Freshman Office, located in Room 121 LeMans, is headed by Susan Vanek. The office counsels freshmen on first semester Bookstore (4). 
Here students can buy all those non-resalable books at prices well above cost. The lower floor has the finest selection ofOsmond albums in Northern Indiana. 
Infirmary (5). 
The Student Health Center prov­ides the best in modern medical care. Ifyou feel under the weather, be sure to stop by for a leeching. 
Rockne Memorial ( 6). 
Afternoons during the school year, "the Rock" is the site of many exciting on-court battles between students. Sometimes they play basketball. 
Security Office (7). 
This is the centrally-located head­quarters where our champions of justice work 'round the clock to protect the campus from that menace, the illegally-parked car. 
North Dining Hall (8}. 
"Quality Food" is not a foreign term to the Dining Hall cooks; they know what it means and work diligently to assure that none is served here. It is also a great place to practice your foreign languages when ordering entrees. 
Memorial Library (9). 
Later in the semester, the second floor ofthe "Sacred Silo" is the site of the nightly meeting of the ND/SMC Gossip Society. 
LaFortune Student Center (10). 
A multi-purpose building, LaFort­

une houses the offices of student government, where you gain valuable 
Mark Ferron 
experience as a lackey to the Ad­ministration. Also in LaFortune is the Huddle, fast-food restaurant par excellence. A favorite place for the over-30 crowd, it is world-renown for that savory grease-bomb, the Huddle-burger. 
O'Shaughnessy Hall (11 ). 
This is whete most freshmen classes are held. In the basement of the building is the grade-lottery machine which professors use to randomly generate the semester's grades. 
Notre Dame Stadium (12). 
Here is the site of last year's greatest victory: section 35's success at "passing up" Glenda "Fats" Donahue. 
Cushing Hall of bngineering (13). 
On Friday mornings, the hngin­eering Auditorium is a favorite hang­out ofstudents of hmil T. and others with masochistic tendencies. 
South Dining Hall (14). 
Like the North Dining Hall, the South offers a meal-time change of pace for those tired ofeating tasty or appetizing food. 
The Crossing ( 15 ). 
Most freshmen will make the trip 
"across Highway 31" within the first 
two weeks of the semester. For the 
fortunate, it will also be their last. 

Mark Ferron, a fourth-year math major from Appleton, Wisconsin. is a Features staff writer. 


-

Making Transitions Easier 
Molly Woulfe 

programs and study skills, handles here. changes in academic records, and According to Vanek, the Freshman provides information about academ­Office will try "to get the students on ic policies. the right academic track to a suc­
Students may also pick up infor­cessful college career." The Office is mation about activities in conjunc­open from 8 a.m. to 4:30p.m., tion with the Career Development Monday through Friday, other times Center, and foreign study programs by appointment. 
-------~----­
,---,p~~---­
The Observer Monday, August 25, 1980-page 14 


I I 
I 
I_ 
~ 
AND NOW • • • • 



I I 
I I I ­

YOUR 


•.Jo 

A 1J4oto 1Essav bg Jo4n Slacor 
~--------~----­
---------------------------------------~ 
~ 
Features 
Monday, August 25,1980 -page 13 
What's All This, Then? 
For those freshmen eager to spread their wings and explore the environs outside the shadow ofthe Golden Dome, we have tried to put to-gether a brief list of 
local restaurants and entertainment. This list is by no means complete, nor is it an endorsement, per se. Entries were chosen as much for their ac­cessibility from campus as their indivzdual merits 
RESTAURANTS 
Boar's Head 52885 U.S. 31 N 
272-5478. Dinner 5-12 Sat., 
closed Sun. Steaks, prime rib 
and seafood. Dinner entrees 
range from $6.45 to $12.95. 
A.h., M.C. and Visa cards hon­
ored. 
Captain Alexander's Moon­
raker 320 h. Colfax, South 
Bend. 234-4471. Dinner 5-12 
Sat., 5-9 Sun. Seafood. hntrces 
$6.50 to 12.95. A.h., Diners, 
C.B., M.C. and Visa cards 
honored. 
Ice House 700 Lincoln 
Way West at the 100 Center, 
Mishawaka. 259-9925. 
Seafood and steak. · Entrees 
$5.50 to $13.50. A.h., M.C. and 
Visa honored~ 
Hans Haus 2801'S. Michigan 
on U.S. 31 S., South Bend. 291­
5522. Dinner 4:30-10:30 Sat., 
closed Sun. Bavarian. Entrees 
$3.95 to $9.95. A.h. C.B. 
Diners, M. C. and Visa honored.' 
Hacienda 706 Lincoln Way 

West at the 100 Center, Mish-

South Bend's Century Center. 
awaka. 259-8541. Dinner 11-11 Sat and Sun. Mexican. hntrees $1.00 to $6.95. A.h., M.C. and Visa honored. 
Shanghai 130 Dixie Way South, South Bend. 272-7373. Mandarin Chinese. Dinner 11­10 Sat. and Sun. hntrees $4.25 to 16.95. A.h., C.B., Diners, 
M.C. 
and Visa honored. Reser­vations accepted. Villa Capri 1357 N. Ironwood, South Bend. 287-9200. Italian. Dinner 4:30-11:30 Sat., closed Sun., late night snacks after 9. t:.ntrees $3.00 to $11.50. A.t:.., 

M.C. 
and Visa honored. Reser­


vations accepted. 

(photo by john Macor) 
MOVIES 
Boiler House Flix 100 Center, Mishawaka. 255­9575. Close hncounters: Spec­ial hdition 7, 9:30. The Blue Lagoon 7:30, 9:30. 
Forum one mile north of ND on U.S. 31. 277-1522. 1: The Man with Bogart's Face 7, 9:30. 
II: Honeysuckle Rose 7:10, 
9:30. III: Cheech and Chong's Next Movie 7:30, 9:45. River Park 2929 Mishawaka 
Ave,, South Bend. 291-4593. 
The Octagon 7:30, 9:30. 
Scottsdale Miami and Ireland 
Roads, South Bend. 291-4593. The hmpire Strikes Back 2, 4:30, 7, 9:30. 
Town and Country 2340 N. Hickory Road, Mishawaka. 259­9090. I: Smokey and the Bandit, Part II 1:30, 3:30, 5: 30, 7:30 9:30. II: Airplane 1:45, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45 and 9:45. 
University Park Grape and Cleveland Roads, Mishawaka. 277-0441. Herbie Goes Bana­nas 2, 4, 6, 8, 10. Caddyshack 1:45, 3:35, 5:25, 7:30 and 9:45. 
The Hunter 1:30, 3:20, 5:10, 7:15 and 9:30. 
For a more co_mplete idea of what's going on, stay tuned to local radio stations: WSND FM 
88.9 gives good listings of jazz and classical performances; WNDU 92 and WRBR 104 broadcast the latest concert information along with Casey Kasem and his Sunday morning Top Forty countdown. The South Bend Tribune and the bi­weekly entertainment newslet­ter Front Runner keep tabs on all kinds of nightlife and give a good overview of South Bend entertainment. 
Need writers 
HELP! The Features page needs writers. Any freshmen in­terested in working on the Features staff should call Kate Farrell or Molly Woulfe at 7471 or 1715. 
The South BendNobody Knows 
Brow:se through a South Bend telephone directory. One discovers that there are 61 apartment com­plexes, 1 3 architects, 8 billard rooms and clubs, one Arthur Murray Dance Studio, and 82 taverns (including one with the intriguing name of "Mar­ion's Hide-a-way"). The phone book hints at an area's activities: its bus­inesses, history, and pleasures. But what is the story behind those brief listings? How did these people, some of whom live in those 61 apartment complexes, find themselves in South Bend? 
Like Notre Dame, South Bend traces its roots to an enterprising Frenchman. It was the French ex­plorer Robert Cavelier Sieur de La Salle who first blazed trails in the area, travelling down the Mississippi from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico around 1675. A plaque in South Bend's Riverview Cemetery com­memorates LaSalle's visit to the area. The early French influence is reflec­ted in Indiana names: Vincennes, Versailles, Vevay and Lafayette. 
Despite La Salle's early explora­tions, it took the French more than a century and a half to establish a local presence --not until 1829 when fur trader Pierre Navarre arrived to establish a trading post for the American Fur Company on the south bend of the St. Joseph river. The trading post was originally known as "Big St. Joseph Station" or "The Bend". The present name was not adopted until 1830, when French settler Alexis Coquillard christened the post of 128 traders South Bend. 
Today, the population has reached almost 125,000. When the surroun­ding St. Joseph county is included, the number rises to 280,000. 
Almost seven percent of the pop­ulation is black. Another 15 percent is comprised ofwhat the census sheet labels "foreign stock". These are the ethnic groups of South Bend-the Poles, Hungarians, Serbians, Greeks, Swedes, and Mexicans -that proud­cling to their language and culture. (For example, one can still find church services in Polish.) 
Where do all these people work? Notre Dame is tbe town's second largest employer, with 2800 employ­ees. Historically, however, the Stu­debaker Corporation was the area's most important employer. Stude­baker was founded in 1852 when two of five Studebaker brothers started a blacksmith shop which srJon expan­ded into wagon and buggy making. By the end of the century, Stude·· baker was one of the largest wagon makers in the country, and in 1904, it expanded still further into auto­mobile production. 
South Bend was the heart of the Studebaker operation, acting as corporate headquarters and residen­tial territory for Studebaker's largest production plant. By 1949, 12,000 locals were employed for the com­pany. 
Unfortunately for South Bend, Studebaker suffered a series of marketing setbacks after introducing the streamlined body in 1949-50. By 1963, the work force dropped to 7 ,000, and finally, Studebaker left the region altogether in December !963. Today, the Studebaker factor; ts a wholly-owned subsidiary of 

McGraw-hdison where the Avanti a high-priced, custom-made sports c~r is still manufactured in very limited numbers. · 
Studebaker's departure left the Bendix Corporation as the town's major employer, with a work force of approximately 6,000. Founded in South Bend in the 1920's Bendix began as a manufacturer 'of auto parts, and later moved into aviation p~oduction. The South Bend plant sttll concentrates in these two areas alth~ugh Bendix has expandecl constderably beyond its South Bend beginnings and become a worldwide ~ongfomerate with many diverse mterests. 
But, as the number of taverns reveal, there is more to do than work. There are varied attractions for diverse interests. Take architecture for example. South Bend boasts tw~ buildings designed by Frank Lloyd 'Wright, a forerunner of the modern school of architecture. The Avalon G~otto, 705 W. Washington, is a pn~ate, ~orne designed during Wnght s fmal architectural period.· The other has recently been sold to a private party and is not open to the public. Information on these places can be obtained from the Northern Indiana Historical Society and the 
'South Bend Convention and Visitors Bureau. Another interesting building is the 
Michelle Kelleher 
Studebaker Mansion or Tippecanoe Place. Completed in 1889, it was the 
residence  of  company  president  
Clement  Studebaker.  
If  all  this  

history fails to catch your interest, there is always the great outdoors. The Freshman Year of Studies per­iodically sponsors trips to Bendix Woods where one can go hiking, skiing or picnicing.One sight not to miss: pine trees plant~d to spell out "Studebaker" (the park was formerly the Studebaker proving grounds). Other picnic places are the Rum Village Park and Nature Trails . 
The phonebook, radio and Sou,th Bend Tribune are useful ways of becoming acquainted with the area. Movie cinemas offer a reasonably good selection of both first-run and held-over movies, and the local theatres -the South Bend Civic Theatre, the Century Center, and the Morris Civic Auditorium, among others present an ambitious selection of comic, musical and dramatic entertainment. 
The four years at ND-SMC can be spent a lot rrore enjoyably if one 
takes ad vantage of what So-uth 
Bend has to offer. 
Michelle Kelleher, a proud Hoosier from Crawfordsville, Indiana, is a fourth year government major. This is her first contribution to Features. 
~------­
The~~==~======================~======== 

~4[)cJl~~=====================M=oo=d=~=,A=u=gm=t=25=,1=9=80=-p=~=e=15 
Molarity Michael Molinelli 
Camp4s 


hold out 
LONDON-Journalists at The Times of London went on strike for more pay yesterday, marking the first walkout by journalists at the prestigious newspaper. Negotiations invol­ved members of a government­appointed arbitration com,mit­tee, management representat­ives, and leaders ofof the Times' local of the National Union of Journalists, which represents 280 journalists at the newspap­er. The journalists, who were not involved in a previous di­spute that halted puplication of the Times for 11 months until it reappeared last November, in­sisted that management honor a 21 percent pay increase re­commended by an independent arbitrator. The Times has said it could afford to pay only 18 per­cent. 
ERA supporter faces sentence 
SPRINGFieLD, Ill. (AP)­An eight-women, four-mao jury on Friday convicted a former National Organization for Women volunteer ofbriber)!Jn attempting to influence an Illinois lawmaker to vote for the equal Rights Amendment. 
But the jury returned an an­nouncement of an innocent verdict on a lesser charge of soliciting a lawmaker to com­mit official misconduct. 
The jury deliberated more than seven hours before return­ing the verdict against Wanda 
Brandstetter,  a  55-year  old  
Chicago businesswomen.  
Mrs.  Brandstetter  was  

charged with offering a S 1 ,000 bribe to freshman Republican Rep. Nord Swanstrom on May 14 ifhe would vote for the hRA. 
Circuit Court Judge Jeanne Scott could sentence Mrs. Brandstetter to seven years in prison and a$10,000 fine. · 
ACROSS 32 Cease 
1 Reef 33 Paradise

The Daily Crossword lost
material 6 Check 35 Tragic

10 What a loveF 

pity! 39 Awkward 

14 Reflection boat 
15 Cartoonist 40 Pertaining
Peter to birth 

16 Green: Fr.-­
42 Eggs

17 Old Nick 43 Calm 18 Afrikaans 
46 Office 19 S·shaped note molding 
47 -Rabbit 

20 Apprentice 48 Increase 
22 Chalk 50 Rash 
24 Nothing 
52 Transmuted 25 Hepays 
56 Have being 

26 Cheated 57 Lyrical
31 Downcast poem 
Today 's answers 
will appear in 

Tuesday's edition 
of The Observer 
© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Refrigerators 
dorm room size students rates CALL • 
TAYLOR 
RENTAL 
277-2190 
1427N. Ironwood~ 
58 Wall coating 62 Deepblue 63 Forest  13 Ranch animal 21 Tenyor Drew  
creature 65 Dwell  23 Tragic king 26 Fellow  
66 Heed 67 Sicilian landmark 66 Nocturnal lemur  - 27 Lagomorph 28 Miss Chase 29 Dutch cheese 30 Discourage 
69 Special periods  34 Appoint 36 Additional  
70 Officious 71 Trapshoot· lng  37 Arden and others 38 Reston  
one's- 
DOWN  41 Slow train  
1 Ancient  44 Tapers 
sacred  45 Move  
receptacle  gradually 
2 Tent maker  47 African  
3 Pro- antelope 
4 Con 5 Nickname forNimoy  49 Muffle 51 Animal enclosures  
6 Flllto the brim 7 Musical syllable 8 Make Into  52 Wading bird 53 Revere 54 Louiseor Bryant 55 Because of  
law 9 Teeth  58 Attend church  
10 Salad fruit 11 Genuine: sl.  59 Weary 60 Miss Adams  
12 Personlfl· cation of  61 Repose 64 Navyman:  
courage  abbr.  



---------~ 
~-­
I 
I I The Observer Monday, August 25, 1980 ~page 16
I 
f 
I I I I I I I I I 
I 
10DAY'SHITS 

' souvENIRS . ·,L&99HfJelf!uJU.#
! •..,"',.,.';:,:."";;:;'...c,...,. -:JYrHEBESTOF 
· h!rn()l'!;. ChaRl)togHorses ~-------!,_~ FRIENDS 
. f'toeoresAPiac~lnThe'WofldFor 1 

Barbre Streisand ButterFly 
tnctutJong 
Guav.tJellv LovelnTheAttemOIJn Jubrlahoro S.nceiOoniHa~'l'ou CrytngT1me 
USIC TERS ESYOU! 
THEBESTIN CLASSICAL 
SINE QUA NON 

StereoIps3 -99 
only... ­
CHOOSE FROM A LARGE SELECTION OFCLASSICALLPS! 
BUYONELP­FOR3.00­
GETONE FREE! LEO SAYER Thunder in My Heart Includes EasyTol.ove IWantb.o Back I Fool lorb.or Love There Isn't Anything 
Givethegift of music. 

MANY MORE TO CHOOSE FROM, ALLON CBS RECORDS! MANY MORE TOCHOOSE FROM! 
Sale good thru Sept. 6 
~AMMESNOTBEDAMEBOOKSlORE 


The Observer Monday, August 25, 1980 -page 17 
-~---~l 
I 
I 
I I 
! 
I
WHERE TO FIND rr ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF THE HAIIIIES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
1. 
ENTER 14. SCHOOL SUPPLIES 

2. 
NOTRE DAME 15. ART GAllERY SPORTSWEAR 16. BRIEF BAGS 

3. 
JACKETS 17. PICTURES & PLAQUES 

4. 
CAPS 18. RELIGIOUS JEWELRY 

5. 
BLAZERS 19. FASHION JEWELRY .6. IMPRINT SHOPS 20. NOTRE DAME JEWELRY 


7. 
COPYING 20. PENS 

8. 
NOVEL TIES 21. CALCULATORS 

9. 
INSIGNIA WARE 21. lJP TO BOOK DEPARTMENT 

10. 
GREETING CARDS 23. PARCEL CHECK 

11. 
RECORDS 24. 12 CHECKOUT STATIONS 

12. 
HEALTH & BEAUTY AIDS TO BETIER SERVE YOU ...... . 

13. 
STATIONARY & NOTES 25. EXIT ONLY 



WHERE TO FIND BOOKS ON THE UPPER LEVEL OF THE HAMMES BOOKSTORE AT NOTRE DAME 
I ~"> ~d" .._.,., <;1._y-t.~ ,;J'ii SCIENTifiC ECOLOGY INA TURf: 6 
~--EI + I 1--"""f 13 f----+----1H 
LITERAl~ • NON-FICTION 
8 
10
EJ I I ±33--±+=3 
HISTORY lANGUAGES PH._()S()PHV POETAV 
.----..-1~1J-J--EI:f:=3 
14
EF..:·F--E=f-l-I-3=---'-"IJ 
POLITICAl. SCIENCE SOCIOLOGY 111 19 
E::EE:I~r--~--±=-r--r~
_ 1_ F__:_r~ __ 

FICTION COOKWG 23 24 35 AfFEAENCE DA­
29
D I I I -, t 1:---:3 
FUol N D PRESS GAMES MISCEllANEOUS MUSIC 
31 32 
IIOGAAPHv I'SVCHOI.OG v 

I I I I l F I 
NEW PUII.ICAII()NS HlJMOO' !RAVEl 

34 

··•'
25. BIOLOGY 33lAWI ENGLtStt 17. ENGINEERING CORE­

e MUSte 
ze. EARTH SCIENCE 34 AAT2 COLLEGIATE SEM1'4AR ll AACHO"ECTURE

10 FINANCE 27. CHEMISTRY 35 MET ENGR

3 GENERAL PROGRAM 11. ACCOUNTING tt. AEROSPACE ENGR 
28 PHYSICS 38 Ul.O"AAY SCIENCE4 GOVERNMENT 12 MARKETING 20. CHEMtCAL ENG 21. PHI.OSOf'HY
S SOCIOLOGY t3.MATHEMATtCS 21 CIVI...ENG 
30. PSYCHOLOGYe AMERICAN STUDIES 14. MANAGEMENT 22. ELECTRtCAL ENG 3t. THEOLOGY

7. MODERN L.ANGUAOeS 23 UNIFIED SCIENCE
t5. M.B.A. ICS 
32. SPEECH & DRAMA

I. HISTORY 24. UICR0810l.OGY
.11. ECONOM 

------------------------------------------------------~ 

r 
r ­
r 
--~ --~ ~-------.­
• 

The Observer -Sports Monday, August 25, 1980 -page 18 
Admission to the building is 

.. .Rock gra~ted o·nly to students pre­
senting a valid, Notre Dame The Saint Mary's campus 
identification card (which boasts a well-equipped sports
[continued from page 19] 

freshmen will receive at regis­complex i!). its recently com­two squash courts and more. tration on Monday). Notre pleted Angela Athletic Facility. 
r.very freshman becomes Dame students may bring Angela's unique architectual somewhat familiar >yith the along an out-of-town guest who style and design has been L>uilding right away. r.xcepi: for will be issued a temporary ID nationally recognized and awar­those students in an ROTC by the Rockne staff. ded several times in its brief program, all freshmen must The building's hours of o­history. The complex has three take physical education. The peration are 7:30a.m.-11 p.m., interchangeable courts used for initial meeting ofall ofthe phys­Monday through Friday, 9 a.m.-tennis, volleyball and basket­ed classes takes place on the 11 p.m. on Saturday and 10 a.m. ball; a multipurpose area for third floor of the Rock in the through 11 p.m. on Sunday. fencing, gymnastics, tumbling, large gymnasium. At that time, Since the swimming pool is exercise and dance; and two the phys-ed program and all of used so extensively by Notre raquetball courts. In addition, the rotation options will be Dame's swimming teams and the facility houses a universal explained in detail by Dennis water polo team, as well as for gym, billiards, and ping pong , Stark, chairman of the Physical phys-ed classes, its hours of tables. Angela is open daily t.ducation Department. operation are somewhat dif­from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. Courts 
r.ach semester is divided into ferent. The pool is accessible may be reserved two days in thr(e rotations with each ro­from 12 noon-1:15 p.m., 3 p.m. advance. Located inside Regina tation four to five weeks in -4 p.m. and 8 p.m. -11 p.m., Hall is the campus's indoor­length. r.ach student may Monday through Friday, and 1 outdoor swimming pool, fea­choose a different sport for p.m. -6 p.m. and 7 p.m. -11 turing a one meter diving board each rotation. Varsity athletes p.m. on Saturday and Sunday. and a skylight which is opened will receive credit for four of Always check the Rockne in the summer. Saint Mary's has their six rotations and therefore bulletin board or the board in an impressive list of outdoor will be required to take only two your dorm for changes in this athletic facilities as well. It sports. schedule: includes nine tennis courts ­
.. .Marshall 
[continued from page 20] chores. Kiel averaged 38.4 
Oliver.
yards on 105 attempts in high 

Rookie defensive end Mansel have done everything they can school, including a record-set­
Carter is yet another newcoer
to tighten the ra~e with ex­ting 74-yarder last fall. 
who should help out on_defensecellent summer practice ses­
Kiel, ranked by most scout­

this year. The 6-8, 225-poundsions. In the eyes of many, 
ing services as the best high 

Carter was a high school team-Grooms and Kiel have pulled 
school punter in the nation for 
even with, if not surpassed, the last two years, could add an mate of former Irish recordseniors Mike Courey, Greg exciting fake possibility to the holder Jerome Heavens at As­Knafelc and Tim Koegel in the Irish special teams. sumption High School in b. St.

Irish quarterback derby. 

Louis, Mo., where he recorded
Other freshmen almost cer­
bveryone knew last spring 

1 7 career sacks and 60 solo
tain to see action this fall,
that both Kiel and Grooms 

tackles.
mostly on defeqse, include de­
were fine quarterbacks, but 
fensive backs Chris Brown, who
they have surprised even De­
runs the 100 in under 1 0 sec­
vine with their performances 
onds, and Stacey Toran, a de­
thus far. 

fensive back and wide receiver "The two freshmen (QB's) in high school who caught 20 
... Kelly
are better than I thought they passes last year, averaging bet­were going to be," said Devine. ter than 25 yards per reception. 
Grooms, who followed Ohio In the secondary he picked off State star quarterback Art three passes and made 46 tac­[continued from page 20] Schlichter at Miami Trace, kles. 
vities, which is available in their 
threw only three interceptions office on the first floor of the

Freshmen John Mosley and
during his career at the Green­ACC. The most famous non­

Rick Naylor should add depth
field, Ohio, high s~~ool. 

varsity sport on campus, how­
to the Irish linebacking corp.

All Devine would say about ever, doesn't come under the
Mosley is a converted running

the current quarterback situa­auspices of the Non-Varsity
back from nearby Culver Mil­

tion was that, "the guy who the Sports Program. Rather, it is
itary Academy in Culver, Ind.

staff decides can best beat the campus-wide Bookstore
Naylor, a member of Coach and

Purdue will open for us." Basketball tournament held
Athlete's "Super 11" last year, 

each spring during An Tostal. 
bven ifKiel sees little action joins a long list of Cincinati's 
The student-run event will 
directly behind center, it ap­Moeller High School graduates celebrate its tenth anniversary pears that he will still be taking to play at Notre Dame, inclu­in April, and received national several snaps every game. At ding active players Bob Crable, 
acclaim in Sports Illustrated
Tony Hunter, Tim Koegel, 

magazine in 1978. The sin­
this point it looks like the 
Dave Condeni and Harry 

gle-elimination tournament isColumbus, Ind., native has the open to any student, graduateinside track on the punting and undergraduate, and any faculty and staff member. 
~==========================================~==========================~\.
Pinocchio's Pizza Parlor 
Hours
Luncheon 

11 :00·12:00 Mon-Thur _11 :00-1 :30 Fri&Sat
Specials _ • 
1:00-10:00 Sun
weekdays Beer Specials Every Nite -8:00 to 9:00 $.25 Mug $1.25 Pitcher 
Emmons
--------------------, We Deliver ~ 
lrhisCoupon Good For One Pizza I 
L
I I 
, 
~ 
Junipe;
I $2.00offAny Large Pizza I 
I I Watch the G~mes 1---N[ I 1.00 off Any Small Pizza 1 
on our Wide Screen 
I I 
I I
----------------------b========================-1 
six of which are lighted-a driving range, putting green, and a field for flag football and field hockey. The most recent additions to this list include a softball diamond and an all­weather track. 
Athletic and Convocation Center 

When Notre Dame's Athletic and Convocation Center o-. pened on December 7, 1968, NBC sportscaster Curt Gowdy called it "the best, most com­plete sports complex in the country." Many similar facili­ties have been built in the 12 years since, yet the ACC still ranks near the top of the list. 
A newcomer to the U niver­sity.might wander through the ACC's maze of stairwells and corridors for hours and still not see it all. The building's 464,800 square feet of usab)e floor space make it the largest exibition hall between Detroit and Chicago. 
Quite simply, the double­domed ACC is divided in two. Under the south dome is the 11,345 seat basketball arena, home of Fighting Irish basket­ball. Yet the arena's incredible flexibility permits it to house major concerts (The Cars, Bill Cosby coming up), guest speak­ers (former President Ford last winter) and more. 
Under the north dome is the 
fieldliouse, an even more flex­
ible facility used by over a half 
dozen varsity teams at various 
points during their respective 
seasons. The most notable 
fieldhouse residents are the 
hockey and track teams who not only practice there, but compete as well. Hockey seat­ing permits over 4,000 fans to watch the Irish and seating is provided for several hundred track and field fans. 
In addition to the dozens of phys ed students who use the ACC daily, the many facilities between the domes and around their perimeters are for the use ofall Notre Dame students and faculty. Four basketball courts, eight handball/racquetball courts and four squash courts are available. Unlike the Rock­ne Memorial facilities, how­ever, which are available on a first-come/first-serve basis, the ACC courts should be reserved. 

Also located between the domes and around their peri­meters are most of the athletic department's administrative of­fices. On the second floor are the ticket office, the sports information office, the student managers-office, the Monogram Room and the administrative offices. On the first floor are almost all of the varsity sports (and coaches) offices plus the varsity training facilities and weight room. 
Students may be asked to , present a valid Notre Dame identification card to be gran­ted admittance to the building. Those wishing to borrow e­quipment (i.e. racketballs, bas­ketballs, towels, etc.) must present a Notre Dame ID. 
The building's hours of o­peration vary with the schedule of special events, but basically, the ACC is open from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. daily. Check the ACC 
bulletin  board  or  your  hall  
bulletin  board  for  schedule  
changes.  

Sports Briefs.___, 
AirForce tickets remain 
Four of Notre Dame's five 1980 home football games an~ 
completely sold out, according to Irish ticket manager Mike 
Busick. 

No tickets remain for the Purdue (Sept. 6), Michigan (Sept. 20), Miami (Oct. 11) or Army (Oct. 18) games slated for Notre Dame Stadium. 
Some tickets do remain for the November 22 Air Force game-and they are available to the general. public. 
Air Force tickets can be ordered through the mail by writing to the Notre Dame Ticket Office; Athletic and Convocation Center; University of Notre Dame; Notre Dame IN 46556. Tickets are $12 each, and there is a postage and h~ndling charge of $1 per order. · 
All checks should be made payable to the University of Notre Dame. 
NDgeneral try-out meeting 
There will a general meeting Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Library Auditorium for those interested in trying out for women's basketball, fencing, field hockey,. tennis, swimming (co-ed), and volleyball. The meeting will also include_reports on intramural and interhall competition, sport mterest groups (women's fast pitch softball and co-ed gym1 •. :ics) and club sports (track and cross country, co-ed rowing, co-ed sailing, and co-ed skiing). Call 2163 for more information. 
Baseball team slates meeting 
There will be a very important meeting both for returnees from the spring 1980 Notre Dame baseball team and any new candidate interested in trying out for the squad. All classes freshmen through senior are invited to the Wednesday meeting at 4:15 p.m. in the football auditorium in the ACC (enter gate 2). Please bring a pen or a pencil. 
pcandota'1 book1 
used paperbacks from boolist at reduced prices-texts on 3-day notice 
USED BOOKS BOUGHI & SOW 
phone 233•2342 

937 south bend avenue a< CORHY Hl.\OU 
·---~------------------------------------------------------------~---.~-.... 
he Observer -Sports Monday, August 25, 1980-page 19 
Faces· and Places 
Salle High School in Chicago,
ward 'Moose' Krause Dennis Stark 
was honored in 1976 by being 
A dominant Notre Dame named to the National Basket­More freshmen will encoun­
·ports figure for nearly 50 years, ball Hall of Fame. Krause was ter this man in a classroom dward W. "Moose" Krause also granted all-American ho­situation during the upcoming as served Irish athletics on the nors in football and basketball week than any other faculty ridiron, at the basketball during his three years as aNotre member, including bmil. oop, on the track and finally, Dame athlete. Krause also Dennis Stark, chairman of 
in the administrative aspect as served the Irish as varisty bas­the Physical hducation Depar­athletic director for 31 years. ketball co.ach, compiling a 98-tment, is the man responsible Krause, a graduate of DeLa-48 composite. The 67-year old for coordinating all of the in­Krause is the father of the Rev. tricacies of Notre Dame's ex­.hdward Krause Jr., a religious tensive freshman phys ed pro­studies professor at Saint gram. Lining up instuctors for Ma,ry's College. each of the sports in each ro­tation as well as class locations are only a small part of Stark's responsibilities atNotre Dame.Joseph 0 'Brien A 1947 Notre Dame gradu­ate, Stark returned to his alma Assistant athletic director mater a few years later as a phys and business manager Joseph ed instructor and in 1958 as­O'Brien has handled all areas of sumed the head coaching Notre Dame athletic budget chores for the newly formed and travel for four years. varsity swimming team, a post O'Brien, a 1949 Notre Dame he has held ever since. Under graduate, was the most influ­Stark, the Irish swimmers have ential figure in arranging for the compiled a 13 3-119-1 mark in 

Edward ''Moose'' Krause specifics concerning the 1979 22 seasons. Mirage Bowl in Tokyo, Japan. Swimming plays an impor­Prior to his selection as assis­tant role in Stark's pttys ed
Col. John Stephens tant athletic director O'Brien program here. After a brief served over 20 years as per­orientation on the third floor of sonnel director for the Univer­the Rockne Memorial on the sity. first class day, each freshman 

must pass a simple swimming test ondaytwo. "Notbeing able to swim is nothing to be a­shamed of," says Stark. "If someone doesn't know how to play tennis or how to play volleyball, their life isn't in danger. On the other hand, not being able to swim can be life­threatening. Our program is a precaution for their benefit." 

Those students falling below a certain point level in their swimming test will be required to take swimming during the 
first of their six rotations. After 
that, they will be free to choose 
a sport they wish to learn more 
Col. John Stephens 
Col. John Stephens, associate joseph 0 'Brien about.
athletic director, jokingly refers 
to his job as "Moose Krause's 
office boy." Stephens served as professor of military science Michael Busick commanding officer of the 
Mike Busik directs Notre tre Dame Army ROTC he­Dame's expanding ticket de­re his appointment to his partment that encompasses all 
position in 1976. The 

University events. Under his pient ofthe Legion ofMerit, realm are the ticket programsSilver Star, the Bronze Star for Notre Dame football, bas­the Purple Heart, Stephens ketball and hockey as well as nctions as liason between the ACC concerts and other specialniversity and the NCAA. 
events. His increasingly com­
tephens has also aided in the plex operation includes the use heduling of football games 
of the University computer
nd works as one of Notre facilities to aid in the allocation,e's chief public relation 
distribution and mailing of Michael Busick athletic tickets. A 1973 Notte Dame gradu­1lte, Busick served as head 
his arrival at the University 16 
football manager for the 1972 
years ago. Kelly began as an 
Irish season. Just three months 
as~istant baseball coach under 
after his graduation, Busick 
the tutelage of hall-of-farner 
became Notre Dame's assistant 
coach Clarence "Jake" Kline. In 
ticket manager and assum~d the top ticket position in March 
just a few short years, Kelly was 
1975.

appointed assistant director of non-varsity sports. In the spring of 1979, Dominick "Nappy" Napolitano retired from his 
1980 Irish 
post as director of non-varsity 
grid schedule 
athletics and Kelly assumed the 
position which he still retains 
today. In this vein, Kelly deals 
Sept. 6 ............. Purdue with intramural, interhall and 
Sept. 20 .......... Michigan
club sports. Following the 1975 
Oct. 4 ....... at Michigan St. 
baseball season Kline retired, 
Oct. 11 ........ Miami (Fla.) 
leaving Kelly as coach of the 
•Oct. 25 .,. .... .. at ArizonaTom Kelly Irish team. Kelly functioned as 
Nov. 1 ............. at Navy
coach until the end of the 1980 
Nov. 8 ..... at Georgia Tech 
spring season when he stepped 
Nov. 15 ........ at Alabama
Tom Kelly, director of non­down to devote more time to 
Nov. 22........... Air Force 
athletics at Notre Dame, . his job in the non-varisty ath­Dec. 6 ...... at Southern Cal excelled in many areas since letics office. 


Dennis Stark 

Roger Valdiserri 
A 1954 Notre Dame gradu­ate, Roger Valdiserri heads into his 15th year as Sports Infor­mation director and his fifth as assistant athletic director. 
One of the most respected men in his field, Valdiserri heads a staff of two full time assistants Oohn Heisler and Karen Croake), three secratar­ies and over a dozen student assistants who work together staffing press box facilities, publishing press guides for the University's varsity sports as well as football and basketball programs and providing a wealth of Irish statistics and sports information to the world. The department primar­ily serves as the public relations department for Notre Dame athletics. 
Since  1967  Valdiserri  has  
earned  31  awards  from  the  
College  Sports  · Information  

Directors ofAmerica (CoSIDA) for his sports publications.. 

Roger Valdisem· 

Erin Murphy 
.brin Murphy, Saint Mary's assistant athletic director, will begin her second year as a Belle administrator and will also start hf"r second season at the helm of Saint Mary's volleyball squad. Murphy has experienced a broad athletic backround her­self as a player at Lewis Uni­versity and as a competitor on several volleyball teams on the national level. Before coming to Saint Mary's, Murphy de­veloped her administrative skills by directing athletics for Chicago's Park Districts for several years. 

Erin Murphy 

Astrid Hotvedt 
Serving as Notre Dame's Coordinator of Women's Ath­letics is Astrid Hotvedt. The 1969 Eastern Michigan grad u­ate came to Notre Dame in 1974 after years of both par­ticipation in and administration 3f women's sporting activities. Astrid is in her fifth year as an Irish administrator and, until this season, she coached the women's field hockey team as well. Hotvedt continues to 
. work for the expansion of women's athletics at Notre Dame by seeking out the needs, interests, and talents that exist in the rapidly growing women's sports program at Notre Dame. 

Astrid Hotvedt 
Jerry Dallessio 

Jerry Dallessio plays a dual part in the production of Saint Mary's athletics. In addition to being the Belles's athletic and recreation director, Dallessio finds time to coach the varsity basketball team as well. Coach Dallessio received his B.A. and 
M.A. from Notre Dame. He has had considerable experience in elementary and high school athletics, serving as the girls basketball coach at South Bend St. Joseph's high school before moving up the road to Saint Mary's. In his two years as Athletic Director, the Belles' sports program has undergone tremendous growth, and Dal­lessio has produced the most successful cage squads in Saint Mary's history. 

Jerry Dallessio 
Rockne Memorial ­
Affectionately known to its legion of fitness freaks as "The Rock," The Rockne Memorial is a facility for the use ofnot just varsity athletes, but the entire Notre Dame population. Lo­cated at the extreme west end of the South Quad, the Rock of­fers something for every casual exerciser including a swimming pool, two basketball courts, one complete weight room plus another under construction, 10 racquetball/handball courts, 
[continued on page 18) 

r

• 

Monday, August 25, 1980 -page 20 
And alast 
A first time for everything 
There's a first time for everything, and your freshman year at Notre Dame will be filled with premiers, such as yourfirst extended stay away 
Beth
from home, yourfirst roommate, yourfirst Saga
I 
cooked meal, your first college class, and your 
Huffman
I 
~ 
first "Double bmil." 
I Parallelling these forgetable experiences are r the ones treasured by those tam and plaid clad annals thicken with each accomplishment. As a
I 
1-
I 
' 
alumni, the times we'll play most clearly when member of the student body that won a un­we're playing "Remember when?" at our first precedented MVP award in the 1977 Notre class reunion. Few other universities offer the Dame-San Fransisco basketball clash, you will combination of excellent academic and athletic have the opportunity to see that historyhappen. experienc~s. During your years at Saint Mary's Due to the results ofthe Title IX ruling, which 
and Notre Dame you will surely encounter times forces Notre Dame to spend more money on similar to thesebits oflrish legend: women's spdrrs, your freshman year will also be NOTRb DAMb, Ind. -October 22, 1977 -the rookie season of competition for women in
1 
Weating green for the first time in over a dozen Division I basketball. The women's volleyball years, the "Green Wave" poured into Notre team and men's lacrosse team will open their Dame Stadium and overwhelmed Southern Cal, initial seasons at the varsity level. You will have 49-19. Dan Devine, in his third year as head the chance over your years to watch these and coach for Notre Dame, led the Green Machine other teams grow from infancy to puberty and 
down the path of Irish memorabilia. finally to maturity. HOUSTON, Tex.-January 2, 1978-Notre The 1980-81 academic year also will be a year Dame stole a controversial national champion­oflasts. The hockey team will compete in its last 
ship from Bear Bryant and his Crimson Tide as year in the Western Collegiate Hockey As­the Irish up1;1et undefeated and number-one sociation as the "Irish leers" prepare to jump to pegged Texas, 38-10. The national title returned the Central Collegiate Hockey Association for to South Bend once again, its first visit since the 1981-82 season. This will also be the final 1973. season for many Notre Dame and St. Mary's HOUSTON, Tex.-New Year's Day, 1979-athletes slated to graduate in the spring. The list the Irish secure a last-second, miracle win over of Notre Dame's senior superstars includes the Houston in the Cotton Bowl witha Notre Dame likes of Kelly Tripucka, Tracy Jackson, John touchdown as the clock reached 0:00, by Kris Scully, Tom Gibbons, Orlando Woolridge,John Haines on an eight-yard pass from "The Komora, Dave Campbell, Herb Hopwood, Mark Comeback Kid" Joe Montana. Placekicker Joe Hoyer, Jeff Brownschidle, Maggie Lally, Tricia 
Senior captain Dan McCum'e was one ofover two dozen In'sh Unis nailed another miracle as the Irish tallied a McManus, Kevin Lovejoy, Sami Kahale, Oliver soccer players partictPating in t6t's week's grueling win on the extra point kick, 35-34. Franklin, Maureen O'Brien ... 
NOTRb DAMb, Ind.-February 27, 1980-a
three-a-day drills on Cartier Field. The In'sh open Sept. 7 at Yourfirst year will also be one of Notre Dame's Cincinnati. [Photo by john Macor] stunning upset of number-one ranked Depaul, most widely recognized personalities' last year.76-74, in a double-overtime thriller by Richard Football Head Coach Dan Devine, now entering"Digger" Phelps' basketball squad in the his sixth year as an Irish mentor, gave the ACC. Notre Dame graduate and Blue Demon's demanding Notre Dame fans a national cham­coach, Ray Meyer, could not out-craft the master pionship in 1977. Devine's service to the com­Phelps, and the Chicago based team became the munity is immeasurable and the class of 1981, sixth team in recent history to achieve the this year's seniors, are appropriately thelast class 
Marshall, freshmen abig plus 
to 1980 Irish football squad 
nation's acclaim as number one, only to tumble to graduate that actively took part in that to the Irish.
by Paul Mullaney and School, an honor won the pre­historic championship. Let it be in your prayers 
Michael Ortman vious two years by Tony Hunter The list of Notre Dame come-back wins, that Dan Devine can give you such a memory, a (1978} and Bob Crable (1977), miracles and legendary feats is near endless. national championship in yourfirst year, and in both now starring for the Irish. History is made each day at Notre Dame as the his last at Notre Dame.
harlier this month, the Big 10 and the Pac 10 (known in Rose Joe Terranov.t, director of Bowl circles as the Pac 5) an­one of the nation's leading high nounced that they would sup­school scouting services, affec­
Kelly directs non-varsity program 
port the reinstatement of the tionately dubbed Marshall "a freshman ineligibility rule, Darth Vader in cleats," partly which the NCAA eliminated in because of his size, but mostly 
by Craig Cbval non-varsity athletic program on its population, interest level1972. But the NCAA meeting because of his aggressive style Sports Writer offers better than fifty activities and the sport. There are alsowon't take place untilJanuary, of play. 
open to all students. From box­several events that individualsand until some action is taken in The biggest question on Dr. Tom Kelly wants you! Ing to squash to ice hockey, can enter on their own, such asthis direction, freshmen can everyone's mind since the end Before you decide to put your there is something to keep the Notre Dame Open, a cam­
play college football. Notre of last season has been, "Who's athletic career in mothballs in every ex-jock jacking around. pus-wide golf tournament con­Dame fans should be quite glad gonna quarterback?" Freshmen favor of thirty dollar calculus The residence halls are the basis tested on Notre Dame's Burkethose meetings aren't until Scott Grooms and Blair Kiel books and three-hour science for most team sports, with each Memorial Golf Course. In ad­January. 
[continued on page 18] l~bs, be mindful that Kelly's hall entering teams depending dition to Notre Dame's vastNot· less than three lrish 

intramural program, Kelly andfreshmen have a better than his assistant, Rich O'Leary,average chance of starting this oversee Notre Dame's nine
season, and · several others club sports. Wome~-·~ track,should provide much needed skiing, rugby, men's volleyball,depth in places where the Irish rowing, sailing, weight liftingneed it the most. 
and water polo all competeThe rookie with perhaps the 
against other schools and clubsbest shot at starting the Sep­
throughout the Midwest.

tember 6 season opener against Notre Dame's ninth clubPurdue is defensive lineman sport, boxing, is entering itsTim Marshall. The 6-4, 240­51st season in 1980-81. The -pound amazon from Chicago is club has earned a nationalvery much in the running for a prominence with its annuaspot on the line, but exactly Bengal Bouts, a three-day tour­where is still uncertain. 
nament, the proceeds of whic
"Marshall will start," said are donated to missions iIrish head coach Dan Devine Bengladesh. The finals of thearlier this week, "I can almost Bengals have been televised b predict that. You just can't NBC-TV for the past two years 
keep a player that good out of 
The Department of Non-Varthe lineup." "Just because I'm a 
sity Athletics posts bulletinfreshman," says Marshall with regarding sign-up deadlines anconfidence, "that doesn't mean playing dates in the RocknI have to play like a freshman." 
Memorial and the Athletic anMarshall, who was named to Convoc;ttion Center. Kelly anliterally every major publica­his staff also have publishedtion's high school All-America guide to all non-varsity ar•i
team, was named Catholic Player of the Year after his 
junior Ty Barber practices Irish kickoffreturn during the now concluded two-a-day drills. 
[continued on page -18]
senior season at Weber High Several talented freshmen wzll join the Irish in the Purdue opener. [Photo by John Macor] 





