I I I 
Darby 0 'Gill-page 3 

VOL XIV NO. 88 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's , TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 19,1980 
US, Iran 
agree to probe 
(AP) -The United States and 
Iran Ira:ve accepted the mem­
bership of a commission to 
investigate the former shah and 
the panel will go to Tehran in a 
few days, the United Nations 
announced yesterday, but there 
was no word on how or when 
this might bring release of the 
hostages held in the U.S. 
Embassy there. , 
A spokesman for the Moslem 
militants at the embassy told 
th~ Japanese newspaper Yomi­
un there was "no need for the 
U.N. to investigate the crimes of the former shah.'' He said ''Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini and the Iranian people are still demanding the extradition of the shah and the return of his assets" before the hostages will be released. · 
''The United Nations' efforts t? break the impasse by appoin­ung a five-member commission to probe Iran's grievances is a 
U.S. plot being perpetrated through U.N. Secretary-Gener­al Kurt Waldheim," the mili­t~nt was quo~ed as saying in a drspatch momtored in Tokyo. 
In Washington, State Depart­ment officials said the diploma­tic plan for release was "on track,'' but with no firm time­ta?le. The .officials, speaking pnvately, satd the United States probably will not be certain about the freeing of the hostages ''until we see the whites of their eyes.''
~aldheim was quoted by a Vtenna newspaper as saying the hostages would be released "in the course of the commis­
sion's work. Otherwise one would not have received the agreement of the two sides." Acc~rdin~. to Die P_resse's today s edmon, Waldhetm said the commission's report would 
be handed over to him and he would forward it to the U.N. Security Council for whatever action it saw fit. . 
The commission to investigate Iranian grievances has been considered one of the steps that would lead to release of the approximately 50 Americans who have been held hostage at the occupied embassy in Teh­ran since Nov. 4. 
U.N. spokesman Rudolf Staj­duhar, who announced U.S. 
ac~eptance. of the members ?n _ Fnday.. satd a, Tehr~n offict~l has gtven Waldhetm Iran s acceptance by. telephon~ from Teh~~n. He satd Waldhetm was awamng telexed confirmation before officially announcing the pan~l m~mbers' names. 
.st~Jduhar told reporters the 
nmmg of the hostages' release as part of a package deal had not been finalized, but the commission's guidelines had been completed. 
Iranian President Abolhassan Bani-Sadr who indicated last ' 
[continued on page 2] 

University officials reached a decision this weekend on the fate of the 40 scholarships temporarily withheld from six non-revenue producing sports, but according to executive committee members of the Board of Trustees, the decision will not be revealed until 
later this week. It was n.ot immediately clear last night why the announcement of t~e . dect.sJOn was delayed. According to James Murphy, vtce-prestdent f<?r Pubhc Relations and Development, the anl?oun~ement .wdl not be made until Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Umversuy Prestdent, an~ Fr. EdmundJoyce, e?'ecurive vice-presi­dent, return from Flonda where the meetmg was held this 
weekend. 
The two are expected back Thursday. 
"All I can say at this point is that the whole subject of Title IX and athletics was discussed,', Murphy said. ''A statement is being prepared now and it will not be released until they return." 
T~e statem~nt, when released, may address the concerns of 30 varsity captams and student leaders who sent the executive committee~ letter asking them to consider seriously their action in the context of Notre Dame's leadership in sports. 
The letter asked the board to consider the value of minor sports "by more than their financial profitability," and pointed out that No.tre J?ame ."has long b~~n considered an enlightened sort of umversny whtch bases pohCJes on rationale more complex than the 
norm.'' 

A number of other topics were discussed at the executive meeting, according to .Murph~, including a reportgiven by Fr. John Van Wolvlear, vtce-prestdent for Student Affairs, on the recently conducted alcohol survey which claimed that Notre Dame students drink at a rate higher that the national norm. Murphy declined to elaborate further on Van Wolvlear's report or the board's reaction to it. 
The withholding ofthe 40 scholarships is just one dimension in a co~plet~ re.apprat~al of the status of minor sports promised by the Umverstty m a mtd-January statement released by the Athletic Department. 
Apparently, much of the reappraisal has been inspired by fears of Tttle IX, an act of the department of Health, Education, and Wel~are which prohibits discrimination in the form of sports fundmg based on sex. In a Grace Hall speech last Wednesday, Hesburgh denounced the regulation as "stupid" and observed 
that "they (HEW's female lawyers) don't have a clue what athletic administration is about.'' 
Gaffney, Burrell discuss seriousness of draft 
tlon. Burrell went on to explain
by Mary Fran Callahan 
r hat the moment to declare
StaffReporter 

conscientious objection is at the [",, an approximate crowd of momen{ of draft registration-­l )0, Prof. Edward Gaffney and 
!~()( when a Presidential "report h>r dury' · letter is received.
Fr. David Burrell addressed the According to Burrell, the Ex­
scri~>usne!Ss ol the impending ·dra!t as an "immediate antece­
ecurrve Catholic Committee re­dem ,-. to military confrontation leased a st~rement yesterday and stressed the need for 
whrch advoca.red an acceptance ot the draft by requestingindividuals to examine their churches and religious organi­uHJsciences now, "before the 
going_ gets rough." zar rons to provrde potential c;aHney, who is the associate 
;:;~>ldrers wrth draft c--ounseling. llus procedure SHnply entailsdirector of the Center for Con­presentatiOn of all options.
slll utional Studies, spoke first Uurrell cited a need for eachand stressed the seriousness of individual to make "discrimina­draft registration despite recent ting judgements'· and cau­presidential comments which tioned against blatant displaysdec.:med such a measure as ot resrsrance--such as draft card· ·JHTcaurionary. '' bonfires. Burrell said that a·'Don' r kid yourself,'' he said '.l.airness ar playing by theand later added, ''We need to rules'· r:nighr help legitimize a
do some thinking and praying rogc.:t her.·' 
cla11n ot conscrentrous objec­tum. He cautioned that theCa!Tney, a lawyer, presented a legal consequences of outright­legal history of the draft by ly resrsung the federal govern­cll ing various court cases invol­mc.:nt carry stiff jail sentences
vrng conscription. The most recent case, the Larson Su­
. wh~ch one should contemplate bdore rakmg any. "romanticprcrne Court decision, is now leaps.··
currently utilized as the basis .\long with Gaffney, Burrellf,,r lawfully compelling an indi­prc.:sented manners of attemp­vrdual to serve in the militia. 
one

According to Gaffney, the ru­trng to prove that is a 
conscientious objector. Thoughlrng stares, "Administrative not necessarily advocating suchconvenience is enough to over­a polrcy, Burrell stressed that
nde the first amendment." 
an individual could find moral. Acknowledging that the system worth in serving his country in ats wc.:ruve, Gattney then clearly n<m-nunbaranr manner.
explarned the various classifica­t rons utilized. One-A is the 
[continued on page 5]
starldard classification a con­scnpred individual would re­ceive. One-AO is the second r ype of classification and limits a person to strictly non-combat­
Afghan rebels 
ar~r durL One-0 is the last type ol classrfrcarron and exempts an rndivrdual from combatant and 
kil/200
non-u>mbaranr chny, but pre­SL'rlts the individual with the 
Y;viet troops
opt ion of performing some "al­l ernare civil service.'' 
"We really must demand our (AP) -Moslem Afghan rebels ~ln!rch leaders to give advice," krlled 200 Soviet troops during a GaHney commented, saying !0-day battle that culminated rhar there: sould be a "meaning­with the rebels retaking the lui way of fulfilling obligation." airport in a provincial capttal in 
1:1. David Burrell, Theology northeastern Afghanistan, a department chatrman and phrl­Pakistani newspaper reported ~~sophy I rheology professor, yesterday. hrsr. presente-d four ways of I'he Daily Jang of Karachi said lookrng at war which amounted the rebels suffered 50 killed to: during fighting in Faizabad, but 
-·a practical "blank check" they als6. claimed to have auitude. that the government is captured 15 Soviet troops, shot always right duwn two Soviet fighter planes, --1he pai:itisi's position that a dest myed 17 tanks and four warrant to destroy life cannot helicaptors, and seized rifles, exrst machine guns and ammunition. --rhe w~r itself is necessary as Fighting for control of the city a type ot crusade l ')) miles north-northeast of the -·the war is justifiable. capital of Kabul was still going 
While presenting his thought­on, the newspaper said, but the pmvukrng criteria, Burrell con­rebels had the city surrounded. t.inually emphasized the need Faizabad is located in B<\dakh-. fur students · to examine shan Province where, Western their consciences now, before analysts have said, rebels are the draft becomes a reality. He pmviding some of the stiffest stressed the importance of be­resistance for Afghan govern­ing firm with personal convic-ment and Soviet troops. t runs from the beginning--parti­The newspaper report could cularly if one is considering not be confirmed independent­cunsctentious obiection ly, and the number of Soviet 
Uoth Burrell and Gaffney ag­casualties appeared exaggera­reed that it has been difficult in red. · the past to convince draft 
[continued on page 5]
boards of conscientious obj~c-· 

News in brief  Tuesday, February 19, 1980 -page 2  
Reagan apologizesfor nasty racialslurs,· 'poor taste ' HILLSBORO, N.H. (AP) -Ronald Reagan apol~gized yesterday to anyone who might object to an ethnic joke he told about Poles and Italians, but said he intended It as an example of humor he finds in poor taste. ''No slur was intended and I apologize to anyone who was.offended. by it!" the former California governor and Republtcan prestdenual hopeful told a news conference in a voice alternately halting and rising in anger. Mrs. Reagan sees white, then black, but none to befound (AP)--Last Saturday, in the Chicago suburb of Rosemo_nt, Nancy Reagan substituted for her husband at a campatgn rally and told him in a telephone call heard over loudspeakers by about 200 persons that she wi~hed he could see ''All these beautiful white people." She hesitated, her face turned pale, and she added "beautiful black and white people." Then she changed ;he subject. There were no blacks in the audience. Tito 's kidneys become focus ofdoctor's efforts BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) -Doctors treatin~ President J osip Broz Tito said yesterday his weaken.e.d kidneys had become the focus of their fight ~o keep the a.limg 8?-year-old leader alive. For a second day m a row, thetr medical report failed to list any improvement in Tiro's condition, despi~e what were termed "intensive measures" to bolster hts health. The general state of his ~ealth was "~ithout change," said the two-sentence med1cal statement Issued through the Tanjug news agency. Weather Mostly cloudy through Wednesday. Highs Tuesday 35 to 40 with lows in the upper 20s to low 30s. Highs Wednesday in the lower 40s.  ... Probe Two men among Waldheim' s Roman Catholic priest said that [continued from page 1] reported--but still unannoun­if the United States refuses to week the hostages might be ced--choices for the commission acknowledge its guilt for the freed when the commission were also on his appointment abuses of the past 25 years" in begins its work, was quoted in list for meetings Monday--Al­Iran, the American hostages Tehran on Sunday as saying the geria's U.N. ambassador, Mo­''could be there for years.'' inquiry would not be sufficient hamed Bedjaoui, and Venez­The Rev. Darrell Rupiper was to ensure their release. He also uela's former ambassador to one of 49 Americans to visit repeated his demand for a U.S. Washington, Andres Aguilar. Iran the last two weeks with the admission of guilt for alleged The others reported in line for Committ~e for American-Ira­misdeeds during the reign of · the commission were Adib nian Crisis REsolution. Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi. Daoudy, foreign policy advisor I~ Switzerland, a newspaper The United States so far has to the president of Syria, H.W:~ reported two Iranian air force refused to apologize for past J ayewardene, 63-year-old law_. generals and 10 other officers U.S. actions in Iran. yer brother of the president of were executed fol~owing an Waldheim met separately with Sri Lank, and Edmond Louis. abortive plot last December U.S. Secretary ofState Cyrus R. Pettiti, former president of the against the lives of revolution­Vance and the charge d'affaires Paris Bar Association. ary leader Ayatollah Ruhollah of the Iranian U.N. mission, In Omaha, Neb., an American Khomeini and other leaders. Jamal Shemirani. The Washington officials said a major part of the Vance-LEXTEX W alhdeim agenda was making certain both sides understood SCRIPTURE DISCUSSIOX precisely the rules under which the commission will conduct its investigation of the shah's re­Todaygime. They described the commission as part of a fragile Tuesday Feb. 19 7-Spmunderstanding with Iran that' is supposed to le.ad eventually to release of the hostages. They University Village Centersaid Bani-Sadr's three other requirements do not necessarily violate the terms of the under­standing. NOTREDAMEIn addition to the investiga­tion, and an admission of U.S. interference in Iran's internal UNDERGRADUATEaffairs, Bani-Sadr says Iran requires a pledge that the TCJAL COORDINATQUnited States will not interfere · '1 again, and will not interfere: 11'---------------------------1 Iran's efforts to extradite the · shah and recover his fortune. The administration has made a applications available concession to Iran by agreeing to creation of the commission FEB 15 atwithout first obtaining the re­lease of the hostages. ~UDENT GOVERNMENTOFF1CEThe commissioners, Stajduhar 1told reporters, would be meet­ing in Geneva and would fly to Tehran this week. applications due FEB 29by 5 : 00 pm '-• ~The Observer_ ~ Night Editor: Ryan "Poor, -sick Captain'' Ver Berkmoes ANY QUESTIONS I ··­Asst. Night Editor: Deirdre "sleepless" Murphy, Cindy CALL / ¢1 -.~ Kliros 'oCopy Editor: Lynne Dailey JUDICIAL COUNCIL I Layout Staff Sue ''Ace OFFICE IKelleher, Neil "he's such a I r card O'Brien 6413 ~· News Editor: Mike Shields  

 
12: 15 pm LECTIJRE , "to the devil with role theory", carl o'nell, soc. antro. dept. LIBRARY G80 2:30 pm LECUTRE "applications of q.c.d. to .deep inelastic scattering" dr. j.f. owens spons. by phys1cs dept. 220 NIEUWLAND 4 pm LECTIJRE ''a presbyterian pa.stor' s liturgical concerns," hugh oliphant, old pastor of fa1th pres. church. spons. by theology dept. MEM. LIB. LOUNGE  
4:30 pm LECTIJRE, ~'the development of model tumor systems and some aplications" dr. morris pollard, spons. by bioloby dept., ND GALVIN AUD. 6 pm MEETING, international student org., ISO LOUNGE LAFORTIJNE BASEMENT. 6,8, 10 FILM ''mandabi" spons. by center for experient~al learning ENGR. AUD. 7:00 MEETING, junior advisory council, GRACE HALL PIT 7:30pm DISCUSSION "premarital sex" fr. ed malloy, asst. rector of sorin, WALSH CHAPEL  Sports layout: Beth Huffman. Typists: Kate Huffman, Mary Beth Budd, George Biron, Scoop Sullivan EMT: Liz Huber Proofreader: Maryellen Bradley ND Day Editor: Lisa Stanc­zak SMC Day Editor: Cece 'Balzle · SMC Day Editor: Cece THE BIGGEST AND THE BEST... AND STILL N0.1Baliles Ad Design: Joe Murphy NOTREDAMEACC Photographer: Mike Bigley, 7shows  
7:30 LECTIJRE "the humanism of building" prof kenneth featherstone, spons. by tan sigma delta arch. honor soc., rm. 202 ARCH. BLDG. 8 IPm ICE CAPADES, ACC 8 pm LECTIJRE "cognitive development", dr. ann brown, u of II., spons by psych. dept. HAGGAR AUD. 8 pm LECTIJRE "poetry and the kinds of truth," prof. stephen rogers, spons by g.p. program, MEM LIB. LOUNGE 8 pm LECTIJRE, series on the draft ''the draft and soci~~ justice" prof james stewart, n.d. "the draft and the era rose marie hengesbach, dir. women's center, s.b. ywca,  M.D. Tues., Wed., Thurs. Bpm Guest Appearances: Tjm Fri. 4:30and 8:30pm McKeogh (no "u"), Katie Sat 1 O:OOam & 2:00pm The Obsei'Ytr !USPS B 1211] Is published Monday through Friday o­PRICES cep1 during eum and viCitlln perfeda. The Observer Is publilllld by tile $4.50-$6.00-$7.00 students Dl .Notrl D11111 IIIII Saillt Mary's Cllllge. Sublcriptlla nwy Ill IJIIrchastd fir 121 per ,..r 1111 pit' 'ISM C students sematerl from The Observer, P.O. lin TICKETS ONSALE Q, Nllll bame, 111111111 4llilil. s-et 'Apricefor clasl '::&f paid, Nllre Dame, Ill-ACCBOX OFFICEdiana • tues-wed-tburs Bpm Tile Observer II 1 ,.,...., ., U. fri4:30pm~ted Prla. AH , • .-.. rights an r.-md. sat 10:00 f. ............... ...  

T_he Observer Tuesday, February 19, 1980 -page 3 

Officers an8 other representa­tives of the University will observe the 57th annual Univer­sai ~~uut· Dame "'.Ji;;ht ceremon­ies du. :ne ·h" next tuur months with speaking engagements in more than 120 cities across the nation. Theme for this year's observance is "Notre Dame: Educational Resources for the 1980's." 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
C.S.C. president, will address alumni dinner meetings in Cin­cin nari on March 17; Boston, March 18; Oklahoma City, March 25, and Minneapolis-St. Paul, April22. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice president, is scheduled for De­troit April 24, Los Angeles, May 12, Orange County, Cali­fornia, May 14, Salt Lake City, May 15 and Omaha, May 16. 
Prof. Timothy O',Meara, pro­vost, will speak in Grand Rap­ids, March 21; Dallas, March 28; Tucson, April 22; Phoenix, pril 23, and Albuquerque, April 
24. Dr. James W. Frick, vice president for public relations and development, will address alu.·nni i•, Sioux City, \h;ch 1'7, Memphis, March 25; New York City, April23, andJacksonville, Fla., April 24. 
Other officers include Rev. John L. Van Wolvlear, C.S.C., vice president for student af­fairs, Milwaukee, March 27; North west Indiana (Gary-Cal­ument), April 8; Buffalo, April 23; Rochester, N.Y., April 24, and Syracuse april 25. 
Robert E. Gordon, vice presi­dent for advanced studies. will speak in Joliet, Ill , April23 and 
1· · .. _,. •f' ~,1ich . M>~y ,., : . 
, .lu•••.t: .1 . .vtason, vKc pres1­
Je11r fur business affair~. !->a" 
~cheduH::d talks in El Paso, 
April 18; Lafayette, La., April 
19; Corpus Christi,April20, and 
Shreveport, April 22. 
Basketball coach Richard Phelps will address alumni in Pittsburgh, April 17; Philadel­phia. April 18; · Washington, D.C., April 19; and Chicago, April 25. Football coach Dan Devit:Je will speak at a joint meettng of Bershire Area alum­ni (Albany-Pittsfield-Spring­field) May I?; Cleveland, May 14; St. LoUJs, May 20; New Orkans, May 27; San Francis­c~-San Jose, June 10; San D1ego, June 11; Lansing, May 16, and San Antonio, May 28. 
~aw School Dean David T. L111k will speak to South Bend area alumni at a meeting of the Notre .£?arne Club of St. Joseph Valley 111 the Monogram Room of the Athletic and Convocation Center April 15. 
Defeats Oark 
Trudeau begins fourth term 
LUI\ONTO (AP) -Canadians angned over a proposed gaso­lllll' tax calk-d Pierre Eliott l'rudl'all back to office as prime m111istn in national elections )'t'stnday and gave his Liberal P.my a majDrity in the House of 
( :,ll!ll\hJ!lS. 
l'ht·l· turned their backs on Hl·l l:al'-l>ld } llt' Clark and his Pr ';g rl':-;sr\'l' · CDnservatives who h.td appl'aled fl.>r a "fair l·l1~tlh'l' · · after only nine months 111 ot'lilT to correct economic arh! p.dui,·al Wllt'S in the coun­trl·. 
\Vili1 212 ot 2Hl districts l.thul.trnl, the Liberals had 146 ,,, thl' 2H2 scats in the Cllm­rnt~ns. fuur murl' than a majori­
11. Till' Consl'rvat ives 76 and till' s..rralrstir new Democratit· P.rn~ had 20. The rightest S,•rral Crcdit Pany, which hd}'l'd Clark funn a minority in till· Ltst P«rliament had no "l';tt-... Tlw elediun fDr the 2H2nd st·at in the 1-iDuse was del l'ltnl unt 1l March. 
l'lw l.rbnals wne winning 47 lll'ltTtll of thc popular Vlllt', the (:,l!,,.,,.r,·.uivcs .'11 pen:ent and illl' Nnv l),·m••nar.-; ·1 H percent, ;r,, 111drng to liw C;u1adian Br '>;td, ;t,.,llng Curpor,u ion. 
h 11 till' (JO-yl'ar-old Trudcua, prrrlH' tninistl'l from April I1J6H ''' M;ry 1'J7'J. this will he his 
ft~urilr. tl'I'Jll a-.; government 1hrd. I k had said thi-.; wa~ his la,-,t clnt ion arH! 1 hat he Wlluld "'''!' dowrr in two or thrl'l' years. 
I It-handily WI Ill n·-l'il'rtion to lrr-..padiament,.,eat in hi,., Mount J{,,y;1l d'"'~'~'t in Montreal. 
,\ v11 11111 of a Li heraI swl'ep of tlw L;r-.;t wa" l;abien Roy, it-;r•kr ,of till· rightist Social Cr<'dll P;rny, wl1i1h aligned u-.t·ll w111i the Con,.,(TVatives in 1hl' la-..t llllllolit y govcrnrnent. 
;\lt·w Ikrnou;H i, Party leader Ld Bwadl)('rrt wa-.; easily re­<'inr('(l i1r hi-.; Ontario district. 
!'Ill' l.rhe1al tid1· again~! Con­-.;,·r varrv1·-.; began in the eastern M;u lllllH' prov111n·,.,, when· Tr 111kau'-. f(';tlll took fi>Ltr I l>•tr...t· ol Commons seat" tha> lrad IH'('II !reid by Consnvat ivc~ 
Library plans new catalogue .to facflitate computerization 
If plans are developed as cannot be handled yet," Neal expected, persons looking for says, "So we'll have a split materials in the University of' catalog with all the new material Notre Dame's Memorial Li­in the second temporary cata­brary at this time next year will log. Persons using the library have two card catalogs through will have to check for material which to search. in two places, but they will find While the existing catalog the ~eadings in the new catalog 
will be mair,wim.~. ~eCL..J'·-~ , _. LaSh_r [(i :.i.:>L
1 

temporary one will be devel­''The new card catalog will oped in accordance with the be set up on an interim basis new rules established by the with the ultimate goal of using Library of Congress. The new computers," cataloguer Judy system, to be tmplemented in Sterling said. ~he added that 
January 1981, is the initial step everything the the new catalog in translating the manual card will be put'on machine-readable system into a computerized tape for the eventual switch to system. computer format. 
''There is a set of rules used in cataloguing material whic.h enable us to describe an item and to develop <tnd determine 

Darby 0 'Gill 
:l':CC'>S fOin,~--'Nhat W h.~,J!: 

U111kr Tl,,.. r·_!, · -"-'t by the 7•
atesaifter
ubran· '•· ~-,, '·Hess and fol­1 -~·...:.-..: ·~ 1 -<·•·•v::>< '-, Lry library in the country, are changing effec­
illness

tive Jan. 1, 1981," explained James. G. Neal, associate li­Darby O'Gill, noted campus brarian and head of the Collec­figure, died yesterday after a tion Management Department. long illness. O'Gill, who came 
''The old card catalog may be to Notre Dame as a pup, with us a long time because it recently celebrated his tenth will be expensive to convert all birthday. the cardsto the new system and He lived in Keenan Hall with because some cards simply his master, Fr. Robert Griffin. 
in Prince Edward Island and N,,,.a St·otia, and swept across all-rmponant Omario, which has ')) seats in the 282 seat 
hLltlS('. 
"ObvioJsly we're very en­<' •uragnt and very pleased,'' tIll' nat i"nal Liberal Party pres­tdt·rll, Alasdair Graham, said of till' early results. 
Bru rht· key was expected to be tlrt· n·sults in Ontario, which 
h.h <)) seat~. 
l'lrl' pal>l)' ekuing the most llll'lllhn" to the House of ( :,,,11111<111" forms the govern­nH·rll and the party leader bt·, llllH':-. prime minister. 
\:.,.n.tdrarl,.,, dnting 2Hl mcm­b,·r-. ut' tlw Ht~use uf Cummuns wHir "'H' mort' to be eleued in 1\l.udr, Wl'll' dniding whether I•• g11·1· till' yuung Clark the 
'Lr11 ,l,;tnn·" he had asked for t•• ,·.ur }' tllll hr,., tough ecunurnir I""gr.rm, or lu call in the ,,.t,·r.ur Tr wkau fur an encore :h l,·,r,lt·l. 
l'r,·-cln 1rt~n opinrun polls l"'llllnl 1" a viu"ry by tlw <•II 1 t',JI·•dd Trudeau, whose l.dw~;t-1 g .. ,·,·mnwnt was de­k.rr,·,J by ( :1:11 k',., C.H!st-rvatives 111 ,·In tr:.n-. la-..t Mav. hq~11111111g in the t·:istcm Mari­
llllll' I''11\'lllll'"· Jirrough Que· lw, .JJI,I Ontar1o, vt~tt·r tumou1 w.t· gl'rwr ally rept~rtt'd moder­
.ll<' 111 lw,,,, Till' weather in L•~~' ,·,r· 1 w;r~ illll">tly fa1r and no1 '"" ())ld 
.\ nrr\lul ,. "' ,now and lfrel'­tlllg 1.t11r irr WI''-H-rn Canada r11.11 l!.rl·t· h<Tir ttl I1111g intu dw lllllllllli tlll'i(' 

More than 10 million people;­,,vn 70 percent of those ehgi~ bit---were expected to vote ,in 2H I parliamentary districts. 
l'lrc lit~ use of Commons has 282 st·.u,.,, but one district's election 
w.r,.,  pustjllllled  umil  March  
bt·, ua-.e ·of  the  deaih  of  a  
r.urdrdatl'.  

lile last nat ion a! Gallup poll g.r1c the Liberals a 48-to-28 p,·r,t·nt edge over the Conser-' vatll·t·,.,, with tht· socialist New l>t-m,,, rats h"lding 2_) percent. ,\t!t•t hn survey, by Canadian 
l'd,·vr,.,ron, showl'd thl' Liberals w11il a 10-pornl edgt·. 
lk-..prt<· tl1h, the C•nsnva­''' , . .., pt l'ditlnl an up,.,t·t vrr!Lll'}', ....11 111g C;tnadtans drd tlt>l want t<• n·tutn to a l.rllt'ral go\TI'tl­nwrrl "" qu11 kly at'tn 11 years rllld,·r l'l·udt·au 
.\rr.rh·-..h n>rhi,lt-rt·d Oruarro, \ .. rrl.I<Lr ·.., mo"l pt~pult~th pn>· \'lilt(', Jill' kl'\'. It" l)) St';tl'i .l<, lllilll '"' ur{v rhird of J>arlia­1111'111, and it-. vott·r-. "wrng <·.hill lrt~lll lllll' party to .II I< I( Ill'I . 
SKI ROYAL 

Royal Valley Ski Resort Buchanan, Michigan (616) 695-3847 
CLOSEST SKI AREA TO lfDISMO 17 miles from campus 2 QUAD OHAIR LiftS 

··IDltii£ if\N1J(l)){ID@> ~ ®1J1IDMf <@HfN'~ Qt1\~W1£1E 
Aprofessional Hair Cutting Salon,1tJSt for you, at a price that is affordable. 
A complete Hair Cut, Blow Style and Condition.$9.00 
if you have a WRBR Money Card we will give you another $1.00 ott 
tues-wed 8:30-6:00 thurs-fri 8:30-8:30 CALL277-1691 sat8:30-5:00 

Ash Wednesday Services Sacred Heart Church 
!1:30am Fr. Pat Sullivan, c.s .c. 5:00pm Fr. Bill Toohey, c.s.c. 
(Please note time change) 
Check hall bulletin boards for times of Masses in dorms. 


The Observer Tuesday, February 19, 1980 -page 4 

WINAMAC, Ind. (AP) -A Ford Motor Co. executive who said he was responsible for de­signing the 1973 Pinto testified yesterday that the ~ar was safe and wa!'\ involved in no more fatal fire crashes/ than other subcompacts. 
Ford is on trial charged with1 reckless homicide in the August 1978 burning death of three young women in a 1973 Pinto that exploded when hit from be­hind on a northern Indiana highway. 
The state contends that Ford recklessly designed the Pinto, knowing the fuel tank was sub­j~ct to explode in rear-end colli­sions, but sold the cars anyway without makin~ repairs or warning the public. 
The trial, now in its seventh week, is expected to continue at least into early March with de­fense testimony and prose­
-

OUR . PREPARE FOR: 141st MCIT·OAT· LSAT •GMAT...!!!! IRE· ORE PSYCH· ORE BID PCAT •OCAT •VAT· Mil· SAT 1MBI.H.m·ECFMG•FLEM•VQE NOB I, D • NPB I • NLE Flexible Programs & Hours VIsit Any Center And See For Yourself Why We Make The Difference ~~~M N EDUCATIONAL CENTER291-3150 TEST PREPARATION SPECI!'LISTS SINCE 1938 • Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800·223-1782 Centers In More Than 80 Major US Cities Puerto Rico, Toronto, Canada & Lugano Switzerland '  ~/ I  


As one of the world's leading suppliers of advanced systems and components for aero­space manufacturers, we play a vital role on craft such as the space shuttle, all U.S. com­mercial jets, current military programs, and a number of business jets. Sundstrand also is known for its products in energy systems, air comfort, power transmission, and fluid handling. 
If you're interested in a creative engineering environment where you can work with outstand­ing professionals, investigate Sundstrand. We offer competitive salaries, strong benefits, and a generous educational reimbursement program. Our headquarters are in Rockford, Illinois, a medium-sized community with varied employ­ment opportunities for spouses. 
On-campus interviewer ... Gene Roy 
8 SUNDSTRAII ~~ 
0  
4751 Harrison Avenue  r!>to#­ 
Rockford, IL 61101 crft•'t'C  
An Equal Oppor1un1ty Employer M/F  

Ford executive defends Pinto design 
cution rebuttal. fatal accidents. A traffic death researcher who Harold C. MacDonald, now MacDonald defended his deci­gave lectures to Ford engineers Ford's vice president of engine­sion to place the Pinto's fuel testified earlier Monday that he 
ering and research, said he was in charge of development when the Pinto was designed. 
MacDonald read from a fed­eral 9tudy which he said showed that in 1975 and 1976, 
1.9 percent of the nation's cars were Pintos, and 1.0 percent of the fatal accidents involving fire occurred in a Pinto. ,, ''These figures mean Pintos were having the same number offatal accidents with fire as all other cars -no better and no worse,'' MacDonaldisaid. 
He told the Pulaski Circuit Court jury that the Pinto met all/roposed federal standards an Ford's own standard for withstanding a 20MPH rear­end collision by a 4,000 pound moving vehicle without leaking more than one ounce of fuel on impact and one ounce after­ward. 
The 1973 Pinto's fuel system integrity also was ''fully equal to other subcompacts of that time," MacDonald said. 
He said , U.S. and Canadian government statistics also "suggested the Pinto was about equal to other cars of the time" in the number of fiery tank behmd the axle, a location the state has argued made the Pintomore dangerous. 
He said his father burned to death in 1932 when his car, which had the fuel tank over the axle, ran into a tree. 
"Because of that I feel the gas tank should be as far from the engine as possible," he said. 
Under cross examination, Pro­secutor Michael A. Cosentino pointed out that MacDonald received a yearly salary of $195,000 from Ford, was given a $200,000 bonus in 1978, and owns 13,000 to 14,000 shares of Ford stock. 
Cosentino told reporters he still believes former Ford Pres­ident Lee A. Iacocca -not MacDonald -was responsible for the design of the Pinto, and he said he will recall previous prosecution witnesses in an effort to prove that. Iacocca now is chairman of Chrysler Corp. 
Ford attorney James F. Neal said, "Big companies are made up of people like Mr. MacDo­nald -good, decent people, people doing the best they can tn a difficult world." . 

never discussed the danger of fire because "fires are extreme­ly rare as injury-causing accidents.'' 
Donald F. Huelke, a Univer­sity of Michigan anatomy pro­fessor, said he served as a con­sultant to Ford from 1964-73, giving about 10 lectures a year to the automaker's engineers. 
The lectures were designed "to show the people at Ford what was happenin~ in the real world,'' Huelke satd. But he added that none of the lectures concerned fire deaths or fire in rear-impact collisions. 
However, Huelke acknowledg­ed that of 3,500 accidents he has reconstructed, only two in­volved deaths by fire. 
Huelke said he has served as a consultant to the National High­way Traffic Safety Administra­tion. 
That agency had promrted Ford in Jtine 1978 to recal 1. 5 million Pintos and Mercury Bobcats made between 1971 and 1976 after government crash tests showed the fuel tanks leaked large amounts of fuel in moderate-speed rear­end collisions. 
, ~ 
,
,
, 
~ 
.
~ 
,r 
,
,
,
,
, 
r
, 
~ 
r 

PRINCETON, N ,J. -A new service to help graduate schools examine the effectiveness of their doctoral programs is being offered jointly by the Graduate 
Record  Examinations  Board  
and  the  Council  of Graduate  
Schools.  

The Graduate Program Self­Assessment (GPSA) service uses questionnaires to gather judgments about a doctoral program from faculty members, students and alumni. Designed to serve as part of a school's overall evaluation effort, it pro­vides information in 12 areas, including curriculum, quality of teaching, student commitment and motivation, and faculty work environment. 
Questionnaires consist . of about 60 statements concermng characteristics of the program, with agree-disagree or poor-to·, 
excellent ratings as response 
options. 
In addition to making judg­
ments about a standard set of 
statements concerning each 
graduate/rogram, respondents 
are aske to indicate their own 
personal characteristics, train­
ing and experience, and report 
recent academic or professional 
achievements. They are also 
asked to answer up to 10 
questions prepared by the de­
partment itself to inquire about 
specific local concerns and pro­
gram elements. 
No names are requested on 
the questionnaires, and all in­
formation is confidential. · Questionnaires used in the 
GPSA service have been adapt­
ed from similar questionnaires 
developed in the mid-1970s by 
Educational Testing Service 
(ETS) in cooperation with com­mittees of graduate deans and faculty members. -Those sur­veys were used by ETS to study quality ofdoctoral education for the Council of Graduate Schools under a grant from the National Science Foundation. 

For additional information, write to Graduate Program Self­Assessment Service, Box 2878, Educational Testing Service, Princeton, N.). 08541; or call (609) 921~9000, ext. 2072. 
Class officer platforms due 
Class officer candidare:s platforms are due in to Srud··nr Ac~vities by 5 p.m. Friday. 
... ,............... ____....,;__________...._______________________.,;,_ 
·, I • I.,. I~ 4 .. ~ • •••• • • • ­
'0 


The Observer On feminist issues 
Group sponsors information 
by Maryellen Bradley 
The Notre Dame Women's Reading Group will sponsor support gt uups of six to ten women to inform women of feminist issues that affect them within the University. These rrconsciousness-raising''groups will deal with the spectal psych­ological and social problems that Notre Dame women face, according to Renee Leuchten, a senior American Studies maJor. 
She organized the Women's Reading Group last November to discuss arttcles, books, and films concerning women. 
''I think women at Notre Dame need a women's group," stated Leuchten, '"but they don't rea­lize it. They don't know when they are being descriminated against.'' 
Saint Mary's sponsors assertiveness workshops 
by Mal}' Leavitt St.iORepurter 
Saint Mary's Counseling and C:.nt:-er Development Center is sponsoring t h rce separ~te wurkshops in the upcomtng weeks dealing with assertive­ness training, life planning and human pllt<.:ntial. 
l'he Assertiveness Training workshop will be held once a wed for five weeks from 6-8 
p.m. beginning Fe-b. 20. The sessions will include lectures and c:xercises which will teach students how to assert them­sl'ivc:s. Each week, students will set "assertiveness goals" for themselves which they will try to reach in their daily lives. Ton\' Campbell and Mary The­is, As:-.istant Directors of the center will conduct the work­shop. 
On Feb. 20 and 27, a Life Planning Workshop will meet from 8-l):.)O p.m. in Regina S1>uth Lounge. The aim of this workslwp is to help students integrate the varied fragments of their lives. Such questions as ''I low will my majorrelate to my lifestyle?" and "How do I work towards my goals?" will be discussed with students. Theis and Mary Ann O'Don­nell, the director of Regina Hall, will direct this workshop. 
Beginning Feb. 27, a Human Potential Workshop will meet every Wednesday for_ eight weeks trom 3:30-5:30 p.m. The workshop will teach students to build on their strengths rather than their weaknesses. Accord­ing to the directors, focusing on one· s strenghts will raise a 
NSHPtutors to coordinate program 
AH Saint Mary's Neighbor­hood Scudy Help Program (NSHP,) tutors who are inter­ested in coordinating the pro­gram for the spring semester should contact Sue Claus (4515) and for information about spec­ial actjvities, contact)ean Pich­ler at 4356, and Tami Tangi at 4722 for information on a secretarial position. 
The group organized a Wo­men's Night at the Nazz, which approximately 40 women atten­ded. Leucthen expressed her disappointment over the turn­out; saying "I thought all the feminist.s of Notre Dame would come, but they didn't." 
· This caused Leuchten to ques­tion the viability of a feminist group on campus. She said she considers the group to be an "ad hoc" organization. 
The group members consider themselve:> "watch dogs" of the University's policy on such interests as admissions require­ments, housing conditions, and the Title IX issue. Luechten said she formed the group because she believed that the administration showed little concern for women's needs and rights. 
Leuchten commented, how-
person> self confidence level which ts the goal of this workshop. Students will prac­tice interacting and also work 
on  goal-setting  skills.  The  
workshop  will  utilize  a  small  
group format.  

Students interested in any of these workshops may currently s1gn up in the Counseling and Career Development Center. For further information, stu­dents should contact the Center at 4-I-4431. 
, , .Rebels 
[continued from page 1] 
lkknse Department analysts 111 Wash1ngton said the Soviet 1111 t'l\'!'111 ion f~>rce of some ')\) ,000 men has suffered 2, 500 La-.u:~lt l<'s, only a small fraction of 1 hl'm deaths. since the first 11'"'1'" were sent to Afghanistan '-L'\l'll weeks ago. 
Whenever possible, analysts 111 Washington have said, the S •\'ll'ts are leaving the fighting l•> Alghan army troops. 
In other developments yester­
lLl\·: 

s;·uTtary of State Cyrus R. Vance announced he would also h(' g"tng to Rome and Paris, in addtttt>JJ to Bonn and London, f"r ulllsultatit)ns with U.S. al­II('-. on the si!llations in Iran and i\lghanistan. 
lhe talks in France were r('garded as particularly sensi­ll\'t'. Last week, France pulled out of a Bonn meeting of Western allie~. saying the Uni­tnl States was trying to turn it into an anti-Soviet forum. 
Vance':-. trip which begins in B·•nn tonight will sandwtch the h·b. 20 deadline President Carter has set for the Soviets to Withdraw their troops from Afghanistan. If they don't--and they show no sign of doing su-·Carter has said he will urge a11 tnternauonal boycott of the l'JHO summer Olympic Games Sl't for Moscow. 
•Discuss1on of further retalia­tory meast!res was as expected to figure prominently when Vance meets with the foreign ministers of Britain, France, Italy and Germany. " 
Assistant U.S. Secretary of State Rilhard Hoi brooke, who is in Manila, said the United ever, that she has "become less radical"m her views since she has worked with the sroup. "I have met some admmisttators who are concerned about co-ed-­ucation," Leuchten said, "and who would like to see some changes come about." 
At the same time, Leuchten said she believes that other schools that have recently be­come co-educational have adap­ted much faster than Notre Dame has to meet women's needs. Leucthen disagrees with the argument that women who have been ''Allowed to attend a male's school" must await change patiently because tradition changes slowly. 
''Time does not change tradi­tion," responded Leuchten, ''People do.'' 
The group has composed a list of resources and services avail­able to Notre Dame women. Group members hope to spon­sor a second Women Perfor­mers' Night at the Nazz, as well as a dance instruction session for women. 
They also plan to sponsor films that will nuture the feminist consciousness on campus, ac­cording to Leuchten, and to invite a feminist speaker to address the group. Dates for these activities will be announ­ced as soon as they can be determined. 
The Reading Group meets every Wednesday at 7:45 p.m. in 331 O'Shaugnessy. Tomor­row night they will discuss the film' 'Lucia.'' The first Support Group will meet tonight at 10 
p.m. in Parlor A of Lewis Hall. 
Slat<·s was "preparing and undertaking serious counter­ml'a-.ures" to blunt the per­Ll'l\l'll Sov1et threat, bur did not dl'tad the steps. 
s.,vicl ~"<•reign Minister An­dtL't A. Gromyko urged a re­-.umpti~>n of arms control talks 111 sptte of the countries' differ­l'lll l's over Afghanistan. Con­gt~'"" readily complied with a Cann administration request "• su-.pend consideration of the S.\1.1' treaty after the Suviets II111Vl'll in t u Afghanistan. 
, , , Draft 

[continued from page 1] 
llowever, should an individual dl'tennine himself to be a conscientious objector, he shuuld write. letters to his churd1 or religious organiza­til>JJs stating that belief. This wtll snve the twofold purpose of forcing the individual to see exau ly where personal beliefs lte and also maintain a perma­nent record which may be used when trying to convince a draft b"ard of this position at a later date. 
l'he pair then presented the address of the Central Commit­tee for Conscientious Objection, located in Philadelphia. Throughout the talks, both men Cl>tJtinually stressed rhe need for people to start thinking about the draft now. 
Fr. William Toohey and Dr. .John Yoder will speak tonight in the second part of the lecture senes. 
"Number 10 in your program;" Notre Dame's maggie Lally keeps close watch on an advancing opponent in a recent Irish women's contest. [staff photo by Tim McKeogh] 

A lot of companies will offer you an important sounding title. 
But how many offer you a really important job? 
In the Navy, you get one as soon as you earn your commission. A job with responsibility. A job that re­quires skill and leadership. Ajob that's more thanjust a job, because it's also an adventure. 
If that's the kind of job you're looking for, speak to your local recruiter. Contact: 
•Lt. Dave Barthold at vour olacement office 
February 19 & 20orcallcollect (312)-657 -2169 
NAVY OFFICER. IT'S NOT JUST A JOB, IT'S AN ADVENTURE. 
· · MB

\nternshtP . 
,, 

that ViOf\{S 
''an education 




CHICAGO (AP)-Hundreds of men recruited to replace strik­ing firefighters reported to work yesterday as the city suf­fered its first fire death since the start of the five-day-old walkout. 
Positions on both sides of the bitter dispute seemed to hard­en. The strikers repeated their determination to defy back-to­work court orders and $40,000­a-day fines, and Mayor Jane

The chzll ofwinter does not seem to affect this student as she 
Byrne said she would never
gleefully expresses obvious joy. [photo by Mike Bzgley] 
again negotiate with the Chi­cago Fire Fighters Union or its 
Tuesday, February 19, 1980 -page 6 
C:Onceming Chicagofirefighters 
Dispute burns between mayor and union 
president, Frank Muscare. A 37-year-old mother of four, In a telephone interview with a Diane Williams, died in her radio station, the mayor was basement apartment as fire asked whether she planned swept through the frame build­talks with federal mediators or ing, police said. Her children union officials. and other residents escaped "No, I am not. It wouldn't and called the fire department. make any difference," Mrs. A fully manned fire truck ar­Byrne said. "I will never again rived a short time lo.<:re, but Ms. sit down with Mr. Muscare, nor Williams died. "It wouldn't his men. Not a~ain -not ever. I have been any different," if 
will never subJect anybody in there had been no strike, said the mayor's office or the staff or one non-striker at the scene. the corporation counsel or the The 3.5 million residents of 
commissioner of fire'' to nego· the nation's second-largest city 
tiations with the union. 

,
,
,
,
,
, 
r 
~ 
THE LEADING NEWSMAGAZiNE AT THE LOWEST PRICE. 
Because you 
attend college 
you are eligible 
to receive TIME. 
the world's lead­
ing newsweekly 
at the lowest indi 
VIdual subscnptJon 
rate, just 35~ an 
issue. That's BIG 
SAVINGS off the 
regular subscription 
rate of 59¢ an issue 
and even BIGGER 
SAVINGS off the $].25 
newsstand price. 
And it's so simple to 
subscribe-just look for 
the cards with TIME and 
its sister publications, 
Sports Illustrated, Fortune, 
Life, Money and People. 
They are available at the 
college bookstore or from 
your local TIME representative: 
Kevin Rochford . 121 E. Navarre South Bend, IN 46601 (219) 233-5298 

have been dependent on make­shift fire protection since the walkout Thursday by most of the 4,350 firefighters. They struck after the city refused to grant them a written contract to replace handshake agreements unless the union would agree to a no-strike clause. 
An estimated 300 recruits arrived for processing at the Fire Department Gymnasium, crossin~ picket lines to the jeers of strikmg firefighters. About 100 police officers stood by, 
some  wearing  riot  helmets.  
There  was  no  violence  or  ar­ 
rests.  

On Sunday. Mrs. Byrne said the city was hiring the men temporarily to replace strikers who stayed off the job. 
About 400 recruits had ac­cepted joh offers telephoned over the weekend. but "some have not shown up. Others have come down but decided nor to go through with it.·' said Charles Pounian. oty personnel director. 
The mavor said the recruits. raken from the standmg eligi­bility list. wdl undergo rwo weeks ot rrammg. msr·ead of the usual six-wt>ek cour<..e then wdl report tor wmk undn super­\'J"ton of exnenenced ,fftcer~. 
Mr'-. bvrn(· said the posmun~ were bcmg offered f_.r 'JO day~. but she pr('dicted thn· would become permane'nt. 'l thtnk then· wtll he enough \acannes created through dismissals !ll create room for t ht'm and more.' ·she said. 
The strike continued m viola­tion of a preliminary inJunction issued Sunday ntght by Ctreuit Court Judge John F. Hech­inger. They had already ig­nored a temporary restraining order he issued last week. 
Hechinger found strike lead­ers in contempt and levied daily fines of $25,000 against the union, $5,000 each against Muscare and international rep­resentative Michael Lass, and $1 ,000 each against each of five other union officers. 
Fr. Griffin 

to say Lent Masses 
Campus Chaplain Fr. Robert Griffin will say Mass daily during Lent at 12:1) p.m. in the LaFortune ballroom. The Mass­es will begin tomorrow in observance of Ash Wt>dnesday. 
administration of either tnstitution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and 
-The Observer-
as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-m-chre( ........ Roseman· _Mills ' Sports Edztor .... ............. Mark Perry 

represent the opinton of a maJority of Managmg Edaor . . . Diane \X tlson · Features Ed:tor .. .Kathleen Connelly 
&x Q Notr:e Dame, /N-'465.56 rhe Editorial Board. Commenranes. Edttonal Edrtor Ann lrales Photo Edt tor.. . . . . . . . Doug Chnstian 
opmions and letters are the-views of .'lrmnr Copy fidaor 1\ · ,,nL :ak The Observer is an independent the'lf authors Column space ts avail­txecutzve News Fdztor l\1.~;c Le-wt~ Husmess ManaJ!.er..... ...SteVt· Odland newspaper pub!Jshcd by rhe student~ able to all members of rhe commurutv. News Edrtnr..... ".1ark Ru'-.r ?roducttan ManaJ!.f'r.... Joh!l .~lc(_,rarh of the University of Notre Dame du lac and the-free express10n of varving lveu;s Edztor . Mike-Shield:--\t~i·ansmg Manager ... :r..1 Hoi... tnl!e_r and Saint Mary's College. lt does nor opm10ns on campus, through letters. ;s SMC News ~;dum ....... Marg1e .brass1l . Controller..... .. .......Kevtn Mamon necessarily reflect the policies of rht:· encouraged. Lm;utatron Manager. .... Greg Hedge~ 
-'-.~ 
·.· ., ~' .;~ 
The Observer Tuesday, February 19, 1980 -page 7 

In San Salvador 
Teachers sieze payroll, hostages 
SAN SALVADOR El Salva­at the occupied Education Min­dor (AP) --Some 50 members of -istry building told a reporter the leftist-dominated National through a window that his Teachers Association seized the group had a similar demand: 
"We have done this to demand

payroll and administrative off­tees ofthe Educational Ministry the freedom of political prison­
ers."

Sunday ' and held almost 200 
persons inside. Israel said Monday it was Later $unday· , militants closing irs embassy, the sixth from another leftist group end­nation in recent months to do so ed their occupation of the 
Spanish embassy and freed their two remainin~ hostages unharmed, authonties said. 
Astronomer urges Members of the Popular Leagues of Feb. 28 had taken over the embasssy Feb. 4, 
peopletogaze at heavens 
demanding freedom for several arrested militants. 
The militants left the embas-SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -]ohn fi 11 Th ld Dobson believes people must sy peace u y. ey to report-see· the stars to understand the 
ers the government had prom­
ised to try to find three mem7 world in which they live. -Aqd hers the group said were im~ as the force behind_ the Sidewalk prisoned. The government had As~ronomers, he 1s constantly freed 11 of the 16 persons trymg to get others to look sought by the militants, but skyward. . said it knew nothing of the/ On pleasant evemngs, Dobson other five. It was unclear why and other members of the the militants had dropped their group set up their telescopes in demand for information on the Golden Gate Park and other final two colleagues. _ popular tourists areas and in­
-A spokesman for the teachers vite passersby to glimpse the 
Analystssee Brezhnev's allies rising inpower 
MOSCOW (AP) -Western diplomats here are looking closely at signs that .two politi­cal allies of President Leomd l. Brezhnev may have gamed higher rankings within the communist Party's ruling Po­litburo. 
According to these analvsts. the apparent bf>nefioanes in the Politburo's power line-up are. Ukrainian pam chief Vladimir' V ShcherbibKv. ·a lonp;-time Brezhnn protege a!id Kazakhstan·" panv buc · D111mukhamed :\. Kunaw·, 
Shcherbitdh. who turned 6.:: on Sunday, 'is one of the youngest tull members of the l+man Politburo. In recent years there has been specula­tion that he would emerge as. a successor to Premier Alexei N. Kosygin, 75. 
Western analysts said they based their assessment on the uming of major speeches given by Shcherbitsky, Kunayev and their Politburo colleagues during the current election campaign for deputies to re­gional parliaments in the Soviet repubhcs. · 
The campaign is carefully orchestrated by the Communist Party, with only one candidate pre-selected to run for each post. Soviet citizens have the choice ofvoting "yes" or "no.'' 
] ude;ing by years of past expenence, Kremlinologists believe that the order in which Politburo members give their election speeches generally cor­
~ relates to their relative standing· the later a member speaks, the higher his rank. The election campaign is set to wmd up next Friday with an address by Brezhnev. Kosygin 's scheduled appear­ance Thursday at a gathering in Moscow will mark the first ume he has been seen in public since last Oct 17. He reportedly had r ·en seriously ill. Tl-w Western anaJvsrs noted that ~hcherbitsh's election o..;pc--edJ last Thur~day (lppeared r,, Lume unusuallv late -after c; ' r>ther p.,litburo members h;hl given their addresses. The :;h,il rhis year indicated that 
.. 
because of the violence in this Central American country. Is­reali officials said the embassy will be closed at the end of the month. 
Israel has not had an ambass­ador in this country for several years; the embassy has been operated by lower ranking of­ficers. 
Shcherbitsky apparently ha~ pulled ahead of several other Politburo members. 
The Western diplomats said they were puzzled by this year's much later campaign pertor­manc'e b\ Ka7akb leader Kunavn. wht1 spoke Saturday tn a \'IIiage near Alma Ara capnal p( the Soviet Cemrai :\siar· repuhli-c­
1--.unave' ~ address cam(' 
nin;;, Ill tl,\ current round f)\ Polnhur" members compan·d ru f,,un!J last \-TdJ. 
·Moscow ob~ervers satd this rrl!gtH simr/1· have been due ro d_lness, oftiCial travel awa} trom Kazakhstan or st1me other scheduling complication. 


mysteries of the heavens. . ''The public has to see,'' says · the 64-year-old astronomer. "It's dumb to live blind-like in this world. " 
The Sidewalk Astronomers, about 100 strong, also have taken telescopes to such ideal viewing areas as the Grand Canyon and Yosemite National Park for extended summer ex­

HAVE A DEGREE IN
hibitions. They hope to return to the canyon again this sum­
SCIENCE OR ENGINEERING? 
mer, helped along by a $14,000 grant they recently received for a new van. . Dobsor:, 64, earned a degree m chemistry at the University of California before turning to astronomy and cosmology, both ofwhich he teaches in the city's adult education program. 
He built his first telescope in 
[contmued on page BJ 
Candidates 
yours. Then ask about that excellent Air Force sala!ii _ . _the executive experience ... the worldwide assignments . __ liv­ing_quarters ... 30 days of pa1d vacat1on a vear _.. medical and dental care ... and many other Air Force benefits. It's one of the finest opportunities in the nation. For information contact ' 
to debate 
tomorrow 

, TheSBP ISRVP Forum will be . held of1 W ednesdav form 7-'J 
p.m. in Washingron Hall. The candidates will debate at this 
A great woy of life. time. 

·.:-l.. 

J 
J 
The Observer Tuesday, February 19, 1980 -page 8 
PSYCHOLOGICAL SERVICES 

Priest parts from 
ALCOHOLISM EDUCATIO:I OUTREACH PROGRA.'I 
I 


FIL'iS: Films and discussion with a professior.al pinpoint signs of alcohol abuse and inter­ven.tion procP.dures. This input creates an informed network of persons reaching the total community. 
Rectors ~ 
Assistant ~ectors in-service ecucaticn programs and on requ£'st 
R. A.'s 

S.O.A.P. volunteers -vie~ fil~s as volunteP.r peer-group alcohol team members 
Special Groups (J-noards, Student Goverr~ent) 
Alcohol/Di~cipline referrals froM Dean of Students 
Friend, Foomnates, c::;udent-at-nisk 
VIDEO TAPES: 
Intra-Hall Ecucation Prograr." Film clips, slides and intervie"·s on one-hour video tapes suitable for showing in hall sections. 
AUDIO CASSETTES:_" PRINTED MATEq_IALS_:.....-> Lending library for Rectors, R.A. 's, S.O.JI.,P, Group 
PUBLIC EVENTS: Outsice Guest Speakers 
MEDIA: Observer stories, \·IS:.ID interviews, Scholastic articles 
Leader of many South Bend charismatic workshops and a _Dominican priest, Fr. Francis 
' S. MacNutt was married last Saturday in Clearwater, Fl. Despite his departure from his vows ofobedience and celibacy, Fr. MacNutt will conduct a workshop on ''The Christian Family," sponsored by the National Service Committee for Catholic Charismatic Renewal of South Bend. The workshop will be held from May 30 to June 1 on the Notre Dame campus. A leader in the nationwide Catholic charismatic movement and an authority on faith­healing, MacNutt derided to marry despite a warning from his provincial in Chicago that he may face excommunication from the Church. His wife is Judith Carol Sewell, owner of a Clearwater psychological coun­seling center, whom Father 

JUNIORS! 
Psychological Services Department 
Be Sure to Sign Up for 
sponsors alcohol education program 
Appointments for Yearbook 
by Kelli Flint StaffReporter
Portraits 
The Department of Psycho­logical Services plans to expand
Tuesday, Feb.l9, thtough Ftlday, 
its alcohol education program to include the involvemem of rec­
Feb. 22, at both dining halls at 
tors and RA's, according to Wayne Pelligrini, a clinical
dlnnet, 5-6:30 

psychologist with the alcohol program.
AJl sitting fee will be tequited when 
An alcohol program will be presented to rectors at a meet­
ing Wednesday night. "There will be a talk and discussion to
e_hotogtaph is taken 

•

vows; marrtes 
change attitudes about drink­ing-related problems and ways of dealing with them,'' Pelli­grini said. "We hope to get more rectors to (nvolve their RA_'s: in our RA prevention' tratntng program. 
The prevention training pro· gram for RA's will take place this spring. The program is intended to help enable RA's to recognize the symptoms of problem drinkers among stu­dents. ''The training program is not campus-wide," Pelligrini said. "We hope to expand the program to mclude all the dorms. We'll get a feel for the response on Wednesday.'' 
The Psychological Services Department also hopes to get students involved in the educa­tion program. "We feel that the drinking problem at Notre Dame is a campus-wide pro­blem," Pelligrim said. "The alcohol survey results suggest· that more questions need to be asked as to how serious the drinking problem here is .. The administration is becoming in­creasingly concerned over drinking-related problems on campus. Unless students get involved in the education pro­gram, in addition to the rectors and RA's, the program will fail." 
''The new education program will target next year's Fresh­men," Pwlligrini said. Plans are being discussed with Fresh-MacNutt met four years ago in Jerusalem. 

The couple was married in a United Methodist chapel by Reverend Tommy Tyson, a United Methodist minister, a counselor from North Carolina and a former fellow worker of Father MacNutt. They plan to live in Largo, Fl. 
A sponsor of many of Mac­Nutt's workshops in the past, the National Service Committee for Catholic Charismatic Re­newal in South Bend said in a statemem about Father Mac­Nun that "it has always had the highest esteem for Father Mac­Nutt" and that his "contribu­tions ... are significant and of lasting value.'' 
The Service Committee, "saddened greatly," said they view MacNutt's marriage as "objectively, seriously wrong ... 
·a personal mistake ... a tragedy for us all." 
man Year to monitor the fresh­men over the first semester of next year. The Department will collect data on the freshmen drinking habits during orientat­tion week. These results will be compared with other surveys which will be completed by the freshmen over the course of the year. 
"We're trying to discover what ~he conrribu_rion of college expenence at Notre Dame is on a student's drinking patterns,'' Pelligrini said. 
CAP 
sponsors luncheon 
I The Committee on Academic Progress (CAP) will hold its third Wednesday luncheon in the faculty dining room of the South dining hall tomorrow. The guest speaker will be Kathleen Weigert, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters. Interested CAP students and faculty should sign up on the sheet in the CAP office or contact Daniel Rettig or Terry Keeley. 
, , .Heavens 
[continued from page 7] 
1956 and has been building them and showing others how to build them ever since,1 grin­ding and polishing the precision mirrors from the porthole glass of ships. 
Among Dobson's own i':lver;I··· tion is a telescope for vtewmg the sun which has fail-safe provisions to protect the viewer from eye damage. 
Dobson estimates that more thana million people have looked at the heavens through the group's telescopes, which range from a nine-inch model to a 24-incher which takes over an hour just to set up. 

"Most of the people in the Bay Area who have looked through telescopes have looked through ours,'' he says. . 
About 20,000 people looked through the Sidewalk Astrono­mer's lenses during one two­week period at the Grand Canyon, says Dobson. 
The Observer -Sports l9, 1980 -page 9 

With 66runners Women trackste~s begin first season· 
Kelly Sullivan Sports Writer 

Some ingenuity and a little effort were all it took for a handful of runners to form a competitive women's track club at Notre Dame. A notice in the Obsrrver urging participation in the club drew numerous responses from women wishing to compete and prompted soph­omore Joe Costic co volunteer his services as coach. 
''I was going to run for the men's track team but I ruined my knee in interhall football," explained the New Jersey na­tive. "I still wanted to be involved in sports, so I volun­teered to coach the club." Costic is receiving assistance from a few students in his section at St. Ed's HaH who have offered to help out with the field events. 
Some 60 runners, including 6 
from St. Mary's, ha-ve signed 
up for the squad which works 
out regularly at the ACC.. 
Inexperience will pose prob­
lems for Costic's club, com­
posed mainly of freshmen and 
sophomores. "Some of the 
girls aren't even sure what 
events they'd like to run," the 
coach added. 
Tl;e track team participated 
in its first meet on February 1, 
competing at Western Michi­
gan against 9 other schools. 
The Insh finished in 6th place. 
However, Notre Dame's coach 
was quick to point out that 7 of 
those 9 teams were scholarship 
funded squads with a varsity 
status. ''The meet showed that 
we're not yet ready to compete 
against varsity teams. The 
schools running clubs like ours 
_ 

we  beat  handily,  so  we're  
someplace  in  between  right  
now.''  .  

The Irish showed promtse with the performance of some talented individuals. Freshman Kathy Jones took a ?th place in the long jump, while distance runner Kathy Merra and the relay team of Jackie. Bollas, Bernie Bolass, Mary Rtce, and Mary O'Connor finished 6th in the 5000 meter and mile relay, respectively. 
For the Western Michigan meet, the Notre Dame athletiC department granted special dis­pensation to allow the St. Mary's women to compete on Notre Dame's team; in the future, however, the Belles will run for SMC. Costic will look, for sophomore Annette Isom to 
. do well. in the 2000 meter and 2 mile races, and has high hopes for sophomore Barb Jacob in the 1000 meter run. Jacob, a Maryland native, was the high school state champion in that event. · 
Nine meets are posted on Notre Dame's schedule· this year, 6 of which will be run during the -outdoor season that begins in late March. The Irish also' plan to host their own Notre Dame invitational which tentatively includ~s Purdue, Machester, and Hillsdale col­leges. "It would be nice if we could beat all the teams there," offered Costic, "but we won't get any better for the cham­pionships in May if we always run ~gainst people we can beat. 
The first year leader encour­ages any female student to sign 
Sports Briefs._----. 
Irish-Spartangame time changes 
The starting time for next Saturday's Irish hockey game at Michigan State has been changed from 7:30 p.m. to 3:00 
p.m. Notre Dame and the Spart~ns will begin the Fri~ay game at the regularly scheduled ttme of 7:30. The followmg week the Irish will finish the regular season at home versus Minnesota. 
Big Ten names Woodson 
CHICAGO (AP) --Indiana's Mark Woodson, in a great, courageous comeback? has bee~ na~ed ~ig_Ten _Player of the Week for his outstandmg conmbuttons_m vtctones ~wer Io~a and Minnesota last·week. The 6-5 sentor from Indtanapolts, who had a disc removed Dec. 27 and missed 15 games and eight weeks of play, returned to the H?osier lin up and scored 18 points to lead the way to a 66-55 vtctory at I?wa. He also scored 24 points in a 67-54 triumph over Mmnesota. IN addition Woodson was a perfect 10-for-10 from the free throw li~e in the two games and had eight rebounds and eight assists. 
Gymnastssplit triangularmeet 
The men's half of the Notre Dame/St. Mary's gymnastics 
team split in a triangular meet against Central Michigan and 
School~raft last week. Host Central Michigan totaled 160 
points, the Irish finished with 143,71 while Schoolcraft 
followed with 121.93. . 
Seniors Bob Meehan and Bob· Breyer led Notre J?ame in ~he 
vault. Meehan received a score of 8.4 for the htghest Insh 
score in the event. ­
Dave Petrillo performed well in both the fl?or ~xericse and 
pommel horse and Luis DeLeon led the Insh m the latter 
event. John Paulik dominated the rings for Notre Dame and 
took second place in the meet. · 
Freshman Ed Barret captured second place in the meet's 
final event, ·:1e high bar. . , .. 
Notre Darr: · s high -corer for the evenmg s competition was 
D: 1 l-i .vk wh• took third place in the all-around com petit ion Meeh; . : followed cl?se. behind_. 
The Irish return Central Mtchtga~ thts weekend for another rriaPro:ular .. eet. Western Mtch1gan, ranked No. 36 m .he natic :. also will compete. 
up for the squad. Numbers ate not a problem for the club because of Costic's philosophy 0n teamwork..''Every girl that comes out runs. I make sure that everyone does at least one event in the meet,'' he added. "It just wouldn't seem fair to . have the girl.swork out and then 
nc..t compete.'-' 
The coach also expre~s~d the 
importance of mamtat_nm_g a 
proper perspective on wmmng. 
''The main thing is to try and 
have some fun--whatever we do 
after that is just great." 
'­

• • • DiSabato 
[continued from page 12] 
r 

Dan Christensen. DiSabato pushed his career win total over the century mark to 101, while setting a new team standard for tournament wins in a season with 15 match vic:tories, bet­tering his own sophon10re mark of 14. 
The senior freestyler also shat­tered his record of 19 near falls in a season with a new mark of 
30. He is one viet-ry shy of tying his own record for most victories in a season, 29, set in 1977-78. 
The curtain will go down on DiSabato's last scheduled per­formance tomorrow when the Irish travel to Purdue for an afternoon dual meet. But the encores are sure to keep coming when the NCAA tournament begins at the end of this month. 

It is a ticklish situation as these pre-meds anticipate skel;_!ons in their closets. [photo by Mike Bigley] ' 

Tuesday Feb. 19, 1980 
7pm-3am 
3 DRAFTS 
Sl.OO 


KAffiiKAZEES . 
Interested in a Career in 
·Health A~ministration? The Duke Program in Health Administration is one of the nation's foremost graduate training courses leading 
to the professional .degree of Master of Health Administration 
(MHA). 

Duke graduates have gone on to careers in Ihospital 
and clinic management,consulting, !health planning, 
insurance, medical center administration, and numerous. federal and state government agencies.'They hold 
leadership positions in organizations throughout the country.
I 

During the two-vear Duke curriculum, MHA students take courses in financial and managerial accounting , quantitativ 
· methods, organizational theory, health economics, medical care systems, social ·dimensions of illness, health law and public\policy, and field training in health institutions. 
Information Interviews February 20 Sign up at the Placement Office 

The Observer -SportsBoard Tuesday, Febru~ 19, 1980-page 10 
S\\·imming Thursday CLEVELAND ST. 62. NOTRE DAME 51 400-yd. Medley Relay -CSU (Dave J•>llt!~. Torn Svilavsky. Tom He1ber. Tom f •'.>1111( 3 39 97  1000-yd. Freestyle -Mark Miller (CSU) 10 07 06. M1thael Hilger (NO) 10:07.09*, Dilve Campbell (NO) 10:26.45. 200-yd. Freestyle -Paul VasiiGH (CSU) 1 16 40. J~hn Gibbons (NO). 1:50.02, Sean Gee han (CSU) 1 52 87. 50-yd. Freestyle -Joe Stockwell (CSU) /1.83. M1ke Shepardson (N D) :22.20, Jqhn Komara (NO) :l2.21 200-yd. Individual Medley-Tom Svitav­sky (GSU) 2 00 84. Rody Mclaughlin (NO) ? 01 q4_ Don Casey. (NO) 2.04.70.  1-meter Diving -Jeff Dalman (CSU) 274 55. PaUl McGowan (ciD) 214.50, Betsy Snadley (N D) 203.05. 200-yd. Butterfly -Tom Heiber (CSU) 1 '>I 68. Don Casey (N D) 157.77 *, Pat McAII1s.er (N D) 2 03.79. 100-yd. Freestyle -Joe Stockwell (CSU) 1/ 6~. Paul Vasiloff (CSU) :47.90. Rody Mcl~uuhlln (N D) :48.80. 200-yd. Backstroke -Louis Bowersox (rJIJ) 2(04 11. Glenn Battle (ND) 2:05.20 IJ<~JI(I J'>nus (CSU) 2:05.76.  500-yd Freestyle -Mark Miller (CSU) 269.45 PJul McGowan (N D) 226 70, Betsy Snadley (NO) 200.25. 200-yd. Breaststroke -Tom Svitavsky (~.SU) 218 18. John Willamowski (NO) 2 l'J 55. Bob F1nk (ND) 2:21.88 400-yd Freestyle Relay -NO (Rody MLL~uuntm. Mike Shepardson. Thorn Kru 5th. John Komara) 3:15.12. •:Jr~w varst: y record.  Saturday NOTRE DAME 59, MARSHALL 54 400-yd. Medley Relay -M U (Pucket, Nelson, Ihnen, Null) 3:39.8. 1000-yd. Freestyle -Michael Hilger (ND) 10:09.8, M. Sheridan (MU) 1'l:10 .0, ·Greg Bohdan (NO) 10:19.6. · 200-yd. Freestyle -Lynch (M U) 1:48.8, G. Osborne (M U) 1:49.8, John  

Molarity by Michael Molinelli 



Gibbons (NO) 1:50.5 50-yd. Freestyle-John Komore (N D) 
22 2. Mike Shepardson (N D) :22.5, G·1f11 h (MUJ 22.5 j.d. 
2::-yd. Individual Medley -Rody Mclaughlin (NO) 2.01.5. Don Casey (~WJ 2 04 5. Nelson (M U) 2:06.1. 
1-meter diving -Hole (MU) 164 30. Poul McGowan (ND) 146.40. Betsy Snad.ey (ND) 146.00 
200-yd. Butterfly -Don Casey (N D) 1 •,g '; Br1an Ihnen (MU) 2:01.7. Pat McAII1S er (N D) 2 04 5. 
1.:-yd. Freestyle-Null (MU)· 48.5, J>lln Komara (NO) 49.0, Griffith (:v1UJ .30 0 
200-yd. Backstroke -Glenn Battle (:JO) 2 03 6. Lours Bowersox (ND) 2 0~ 1. Pucke:: (MU) 2:06.2. 
1-meter Optional Diving· Hole (M U) 2o0 30 Paul McGowan (N D) 244 35, Summer (M U) 240.15. 
200-yd. Breaststroke -Nelson (MU) 2 l'J 4. J<~hn W111amowsk1 (NO) 2 22.1. B·•tJ F1nk ,(NO) 2:22.6 
400-yd. Freestyle Relay· NO (Rody McLautJillln. M1ke Shepardson. Thorn Kru sell. Jr1hn Komo~e) 3:15.4. 
The Daily Crossword 
j 


All Rights Reserved 

MATH -SCIENCE 

Ask a Pran· Corps voluntrl'r wh~ =-lw lt'adw" math and gt>nt'fal sl'it'lli'E' to high =-rh•'•ll ~tudo'nt" in l.ilwria, \\'est Afnr!\ Ash a not lwr volunteer wh~· ht' tell<"ht•!< hi,Jiogy and physic~ 111 the Pacific I~Iand=-ThP/11 pr,Jhahly say they .mt tn ht'lp penplt', W!\111 ''' ll~(· their sk1lls, travel, learn a ,, .... \allllllll~<' or , XJWrit'I'.Ct' annther cult uri'. Ask them: 
c.l:-!·'; ,\]1.1\•' \'' 11 ,.\LF.'if':-;r OFFICE FOR ., · : .. ••. '1.:~: Nlc:~rch 10 1980 AT ,T. !:-~,;-;~' ~March 10-111980 AT NOTRE­~~ IN ADM. BLDG. 
ACROSS 22 Conspiracy 1 Chaucer's 24 Muslim 
5 9 
12 
14 15 16 
19 
20 
21 

Wife of- decrees  
Partner  26  Each and  
of ends  every  
Part of a  27  "-but the  
rural  brave... "  
address  28  Possessive  
Lend­ 31  Ring weapon  
(listen)  34  Certa1n  
Seed cover  dwellings:  
Honduras  abbr.  
seapo·  "h  ':uff  
W1t'"  ,,r  .:l  L IVISiOn  
rr  Jrr-Yt1  v  >rd  
~.:>1  Jn  3:l  !Jaster, m  
E .ro'lE:I'  ..  dia  
'tie  41  Lu;u  
:>udc'  1  42  Where the  
ml)al  .on  act1on is  
Plar(  or a  44  Russ1an  
ga  !;UZZier  river  

Monday's results 

45 Monstrous 9 Work1ng old one material 
46 Tisane into a new 47 Elia form 49 Three 10 Pennant 
times, in 11 Palm frUit prescrip· 13 K1ngly l1ons 15 Vetch 
51 Kenya rev-17 "~ella-" 
olutionary 18 Loses color 53 Lock 23 Wand 56 Winter 25 Varniuh 
pendant ingredient 58 Indian 29 Aqueduct of 60 Schedule SyiVIUS 
letters 30 Dry 
62 Drop-31 Decree (child's 32 Concermng game) 33 Most hot 
65 Relax and humid 66 ExplOit 35 Baleanc 67 Piano seaport 
expert 37 Roger or 68 Cunmng Marianne ('1 Congeals 40 Man at the 7< Roman plate 
emperor .43 False w1ng 48 Improves 
.JQWN 50 Vert1cal 1 Fold sounds 52 Pam 2 Caper 54 F1sh1ng net 
3 A4uanum 
55 Gu1de fiSh 56 Vngm1a 4 Exclamc. Jf1 
willow of surpr se 7 
Carbomze 
t( 
(;olors 6 Inadequate 
5 Paddles 
IJI Hairdo contr:hL•Iion 63 R1ver 111 7 Duck 
Scotland -~ Mctt" 64 Attila
v 


Est -ce que vous voulez fa1re quelque chose de special avec votre capac1te de parler Ia 
\langue francatse? 
Travailler en plusieurs pays en Afrique .. Cote d'lvo~re. Maroc. Haute Volta. Zaire. N1ge1. etc 
Enseigner les mathematiques. les sciences. les langues. Ia nutrition, et l'agronornie. 
~JOUS AVONS BESOJN DEVOS T ALENTS 1 
Pour vous rense1gner. parlez 
avec un conseiller a RECJSTEH :~()\,' ,, J'!.,\CUI!-::d .IJ·IIl:t: I'll/! ltl!-; 1:\TER\'JF\.;~;: March 10. lqP.il_ sT. ~L\RY's 1\1arch 10 & 11 NORTE I'A'lE AT All~1. HU)C. 
~RPS 
Doonesbury by Garry Trudeau 

ANO&R50N? !'115 Yl5, MII!4M. 
NE-VCR He/IRP OF IN FACT, HE's HIM. AI<E YOU5fJI?£ SPEIIKJNG 70­~ 11&'5 av 711& N£t{J NIGHT AT THt ~ /VIMP5H!Rt IJI/I.LIJT? YMCII ATSIX 
5/X OL'Lu"C~? IAJCLL, LtT M/3 Jl/57 vlECK tf-fY f3()JK.. 
L£T'S sa.. I:M 51/fPOSW TO M#T8liK£I<. OV£1<./IT lH/3 VFW Hilt./.. .. ?HilT'S /ITFOt!R.. 
I 
--~'·'': 


The Observer -SportsBoard ITuesday, February 19, 1980 -page 11 

Basketball 

Yale 68, UniC»l 62 Illinois State 77. Northern Iowa 56 Connecticut 89, Vermont 62 Massachusetts 69, New Hampshire 63 South Florida 81, S:etson 72 Bradley 76, Creighton 75 Centenary 98. North Tr.xas State 93 DePaul 92, !LaSalle 75 C1ncmnati 75, Loyola, Chi. 70 Canisius 67. Colgate 48 Manhattan 76, St. Francis, N.Y. 72 Davidson 73. N.C.-Charlotte 70 Georgia Tech 40, Georgia 38 
S. Carolina 83, Boston U. 76 loUISVIlle 77, Virginia Tech 72 
Swimming 

WOMEN'S SWIMMING Notre Dame 73, Saint Mary's 57 
200-yard medley relay 

1. 
Notre Dame (Anne Slowey, Mary Keleher. Rlla Harrington, Teri Fitzsim· .ons) 2:05.72. 

2. 
Saint Mary's (M. Carroll, Catherine Murray, Nancy Lorenzini. Kearin Carey) 2 08.86. 


500-yard freestyle 

1. N D Efena Rodney, 5:57.8 
2. SMC Angie Mictiielutti, 6:18.03. 
200-yard individual medley 

1. 
N D Harrington, 2:38.6. 

2. 
SMC Murray, 2:39.2. 

3. 
N D Tara Kenney 2:47.~ 


100-yard freestyle 1. F1:zsimons 0:57.8. 
2. 
ND Anne Geraghty, 1:00.8. 

3. 
SMC Lucy Hanahan, 1:01.5. 50-yard backstroke 


1. 
SM C Carroll, 0:31.9. 

2. 
N D Slowey, 0:32.23. 50-yard breaststroke 


I. ND Theresa Schindler, 0:35.07. 
2. 
ND Keleher, 0:37.1. 

3. 
SMC MichieltJtti, 0:38.81. 


100-yard butterfly 1. Rodney, 1:09.4 
2. 
SMC Lorenzini, 1:12.0. 

3. 
ND Susan O'Laughlin, 1:13.8. One meter diving 


1. 
SM C Patti Meagher, 194.05. 

2. 
ND Teresa Day, 132. 

3. 
ND Jane Brown, 129.25. 50-yard freestyle 


1. 
NO Fitzsimons, 0:26.14. 

2. 
ND N Burrell. 0:28.37. 


3. MSC Lorenzini 0:28.1. 100-yard backstroke 
1. 
N D Rodney, 1:10.7. 

2. 
SMC Carroll, 1:12.3. 

3. 
ND Slowey, 1:12.6. 100-yard individual medley 


1. 
SMC Murray, 1:14.8 

2. 
N D Anne Janss, 1:15.8. 

3. 
ND Day, 1:19.8. 200-yard free style 


1. ND Debra KarlinQ,'2:14 50-yard freestyle 
1. 
SM C Lorenzini, 0:31.31. 

2. 
SMC Hanahan, 0:31.98. 

3. 
N D Kenney, 0:33.6. 


Three meter diving 1. SMC Pat1i Meagher, 165.5. 
2. ND Jane Brown, 140.85. 
200-yard freestyle medley relay 1 SMC (Carroll Hanahan, Michielutti,
Murray), 1:53.8. 
Olympics 

(AP)-A lorejumper broke a small bone in his back yesterday when he crashed while testing the 70-meter ski jump at the Winter Olympics. Mark Johnson, 23, of Duluth, Minn., was reported in good condition at Placid Memorial Hospital with the broken bone at the base of his vertebrae. He slipped while going off the jump before the start. of competit!on. The forejumpers help JUdges dec1de ho~ conditions are, and where to start compet1· tors on the ramp. 
HOCKEY 
(AP)-In hockey, the United States remained unbeaten with a 7·2 triumph over Romania. Buzz Schneider scored twice as the Americans regained a first place tie with Sweden in the Blue Division. Canada blanked Japan 6·0, Sweden crush· ed Norway 7-1, Holland beat Poland 5·3, Czechoslovakia defeated West Germany 11-3 and the powerful Soviets had to come from behind for a 4-2 decision over F1nland. 
Tennis 
Saturday MICHIGAN 9, NOTRE DAME 0 
Singles 
No. 1-Michael Leach (M) del. Mark McMahon, 6-1, 6-2 . No. 2-Jeff Horwich (M) del. Carlton 
.Harris, 6-3, 6-1.  
No.  3-Mark  Mees  (M)  del.  Herb  
Hopwood, 6-1, 6-2. No. 4-Jack Neiken  (M)  del.  Mark  
Hoyer, 6·2, 6-2.  
No.  5-Tom  Haney  (M)  del.  Tom  


1Hartzell, 6·1, 6·2. No. 6-Dan McLauglin (M) del. Jim Falvey, 5-7, 6·3, 6·2. • Doubles 
, No. 1-Leach Horwich (M) del. Harris/ 1Hopwood, 6·0, 6·1. ­'! No. 2-Neiken/McLaughlin (M) del. McMahon/Hoyer, 6·4, 6·2. No. 3-Mees/Lohie (M) del. Falvey/ Tim Noonan, 6·3, 6·4. 
Sunday NOTRE DAME 8, EASTERN !MICH. 1 
Singles 

No. 1-McMahon. (ND) del. Dave Chandler 7-5, 6·4. No. 2-'-Ken Prebble (EM) del. Harris 6-7 (7·9), 6-2, delault. No. 3-Hopwood (ND) del. Cameron Greig 6-1, 6·0. No. 4-Hoyer (ND) del. Bjorn Salped· man 6-1, 6·3. no. 5-Tom Hartzell (ND) del. Jeff Holman 6-3, 6·3. No.6-Falvey (ND) del. Mike Munson 6-3. 6·0. 
Doubles 
No. 1-Harris/Hopwood (ND) del. Cha­ndler/Prebble 7-6 (7-2), 6-1. No .. 2-McMahon/Hoyer (ND) del. Saljemar/Holman 6-1, 6·3. No. 3-~alvey/Noonan (ND) del. Greig /Munson 6-4, 6·2. 
Classifieds  All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail.  
We ren. de;Jendable cars from $7.95 aNotices d.ty and 7 cen:s a mile. Ugly Duckling Run. ,\-Car 921 E. Jefferson Blvd. MISII. Ind. ~.)5-2323Typ1ng in my home, 277-3085. Call be. ween 8:00 and 7:00. Available for your next party • CRY·, Wanted ST AL ·plays high-energy rock-n-roll. Call Doug, Andy· 234-6353 Noed r1de to Ohio State U or Toledo, OH weekend of Feb. 22. Call Maria,Tuesday is ND-SMC Day at Royal 6Ut:>Valley Ski Resort! 2 for 1 lift tickets 3-10 pm, also 2 for 1, 7-10 pm Nued nde to Buffalo or St. Bonaven·M-Tu-Th. 2 chair lifts CLOSEST SKI .tile any.11ne. L1sa 8144AREA TO CAMPUS. Buchanan, Michigan. Need nde1 s to Columbus. Ohio Feb. 22 Jrm 8321 (nights).FLORIDA SUNSHINE EXPRESS Lga\le Notre Dame Circle 6:00 p.m. Flying East? I need someone to driveMa1 c11 27th-Amve Daytona Beach a car from Philadelphia to South Benapp10x1ma:ely 3:00p.m. March 28th. NOW. Call 232-0453.Dmner·1 es: stops en route. Leave Dese1: Inn Ho:el 7:00p.m. April 7th. OVERSEAS JOBS · Summer/year .An1ve No:re Dame approximately 4:00 1ound. Europe, S America, Australia, p.rn. Apnl B.h. As1a. E.c. All fields. $500·$1 ,200Pr1ce includes transportation onlyl mon:hly. Expenses paid. Sightseeing.$16J.00 per person $50.00 deposit to Free info. write 1-JC Box 52·14 Corona .111ld your reservation-balance due Del Mar, Ca. 92625 Marcil 15.h. T: .tnsp:J, :a:10n via air conditioned· Need nde to Champaign IL. weekend 1es.room equtpped luxury coach. Call ol 2 22 call Chris 8328 HAINBOW TRAVEL• 301 N. Michi· jJII. Plymou:h, IN 46563·219-936­ONE FEMALE WANTED IN CAM Su/B DON 1 WAIT· CALL NOW 1 PUS VIEW APARTMENTS. $100/ MONTH. CALL ANNE277-5261 or 7884.Lost&Found Wan:ed. expired Indiana license pla.es for hobby collection. Joe 8386 Lrrs . 3 -cham gold bracelet. If found please call 4-1·4146. Bracelet has g· ea. sen.11nen:al value. For Sale Lrrs .. Minol:a SRT-100X Camera and M1nol.a Au:oflash. Hefty reward a~d Sale on all books in our literatur4! no dumb ques:10ns. Please call Mike section. New and used titles· 25% off. a 677~. randora's Books, 937 S. Bend Ave. $J0 dollar reward for the return of a • Flash: Photographic equipment for30 .. 14k. box link chain. No questions sale--lantastic bargains! -­cameras,asked Pa::y 4332 (SMC) lenses. Call 232·4129 Found. Silver watch. Call 1078 to 1den.1fy. Tickets F'U)ld -1 pa1r of long brown leather gloves a. Jun1or class formal. Call need 2 GA tickets for Marquette. Call1189 to 1t1en:1fy. Dave a: 8696 or 8697. L"s··vold watch on north quad. Fri, Need 1 Marquette GA tix Call Mike atFell 8. If found call Finns 8621. 1627Rcwa1d. Need 4 Marquette tickets. FriendsL11s.-black wallet. Lost near Rock lr 0111 Indy have to see an N D game.rewa1 d. Call Bill 6756 Ralpll 7912 Los.. gold double-strand serpentine Wan:ed: 2 GA Marquette tickets.b1ace1e: 1n the 1st floor of the Library. Name your price. 282-1734 after 6 pmPlease call 8155 if found. Help 1 We are in dire straits. Need many GA or student tickets forFor Rent Marquette game. Call Dan 8998 or M1ke 3406 For rent next school year, nice large I need many Marquette B·ball tix's homes. furnished, couple blocks from Call Tim 8693 ca.npus. 277-3604. 288-0955 I need 5 student tickets to marquette---------------­Two roommates needed for large off big $$$ Please Call Joe · 8192 campus house. Male or female. Everything furnished except person­I need 2 GA's to Marquette game. als. $120/$130 per month. Call Will pay your price Anna (SMC) 5322 ~!Q.:~~i_!_!:~---------­Desperately need DePaul student andFor rent: 4th girl needed at N D apts. GA ·s. Call Leo 1871Call 234-7220  Need 1 DePaul tickets GA or student. CaH Kerry 7873 Rich Graduate '61 needs DePaul Tix [6[ Call 272-5744 Big Bucks: 2 or 4 DePaul tickets. Call [312/ 372-7399 collect. 9-5, Ask for Alex Deviance. Need 3 Mar.quette GA tix. ANY price. Call Dave 1133 Need ucke:s to the Marquette game on :11e 24 11 of Feb. Mike 8501 Will pay Mega $$$ for 2 G.A. Ma1 que:te ticke:s. Karen 6798 Mus. have Daycon (5) :1x1 1 Please help'41-5710 Need two DePaul G.A. tickets lor Dad Ill Cl11cago $ R1ch 1187 Please help-i need 2·4 G.A.'s for DePaul-Will Payl 4·1·5223 Need Marquette Tix Call 8479 Need De'Paul GA's lor former ND b-IJall player. Preferably 4 together. $$ Call Pa: 1791 Want to see Willie-Wampum & West of warriors get wamped! Call Mr. Wa-Wa-evenings at 288-5891 if you have Marquette student or GA tix. Take my money, just sell me 2 GA ma1que:te tickets must know sao, Sean 1771 Help I truckload of guys coming down to1 Marquette game. Need Tickets. Money's no object. Call Brad 3128 or Dennis 3131 Free Cas11 ,I desperately need 2 (just2) :1cke.s to the Marquette game. Money no ObJec:. Call Maureen at 8027 Bus1nessmen need NePaul GA 's will­iny to pay corporate $dollars$ Call Greg or Eddy 1757 Need 2 GA Marquette tix. Nick 233-6249 Help' Despera:ely need several GA Marque<te 11cke:s. Joe 1644 For Trade-Two student DePaul tick· e.s. I wan: 2 G .A Marquette tickets. Call 2727-8019 Need Marquette tickets. Call Kathy SMC 5135 Need 2 Marquette GA 's for my pa1ents· only chance to see an N.D. baske:ball game! Call Bob -8538 OSHKOSH parliers desperately need Marquelle tix. Call JCZ 234-63'48 Desperately need 2 GA Marquette tix. Call Sandy 1276 $Need many Marq. tix. Call John (7443) afler 6:~0 $ Please Help! Parents coming to ND and would love to see Marquette game. Good money for 2 GA 's. Julie 2194 Need many DePaul G.A. tix· $$$ Call 8436 or 8437 alter midniaht.  T1m·Money is no object need two mar· Would you be able to make a dancingque.:e G.A.'s for junior parents week· appearance on Broadway or will yourend. Call 8437 or 8436 after midnight. Olympic Swimming career keep you too bus)'?2 Ma1 que::e GA's needed big bucks. MLCdll Chris 3302 Molly-Thanks for being such a great roommate. Happy anniversary to youPersonals and your vrai amour. Love, Smiley lu an RA. a rarely seen friend, w110 never seems to be in. Dear Maria, _ fllough you are so mean, Thanks for having time for me We s.ill love you. Jean. Sa:urcay night. I appreciate it even if Happy Birthday from Andy and Tim. i: was only 10·11. Love, Fr yout t·shir: doesn': fit you cz.n wipe Steve up those nas~y tracks with it, because :racks lead no where but down the Ron, road to CELIBACY So today is your birthday; Tila: is what I've been told. Jean Melle::: Wha: a wonderful birthday; d personal personal· you're 20 years old! I Happy 22nd Blrthdayl On the cake, there will be candles All lighted lor you Dea1 es: Maria P. All Troy will be singing "Happy lllanks so much for your time B1r:hday to you" be. ween 8and 91ast Saturday night. It Helen was truly enjoyable. Love Mark Alice .. Butch .. Gallagher, Tt1anks for a most enjoyable weekend! Charles "Hollywood" dyer for UMOC Nex: road trip you guys take, take it to Chucky is Yucky MN Love, Tutors needed. Charlie A. Adult, English, Reading, Bible P.S. Sorry about the odium I caused. Study. 2. high school sophomore, basic Mary Dillon, English. You are the greatest personl I couldn ·: find a better confidant in the Pangborn needs any musicians, but world. I really care if you make the especially guitansts and flutist, and bes: of the next six weeks. They began singers especially girls to help with las: Friday-and what you can do for mus1c for Sunday masses. Call Dan yourself is grow. 8360 With love, your buddy TomS: tom. can I borrow your lighter some­Keep 0-C part of N·D. Vote Lohmuller lime? 0 Ccommissioner. w;;;~;t;;--;:-b~t;;-ha-;e-;~;;;al Ceil, conversation with a person of the Have a nice day. You deserve it. opposite sex without gett1ng nervous? Teri Never fear 1 The assertiveness Train· ing Workshop is here. Starting Feb. BBl. 20. the workshop Will meet once a Wlla a Super Post-Valentines night. week for 5 weeks from 6·8 p.m. Jus: keep smiling 1 L11n11ed Enrollment! S1gn up in the BBII Career Development Cente\: SM C. A:.en:~on T.R. Brysh: Huff. Grass and Marquard, B11 .11day greetings from South Bend DePaul and Chicago will never be the to Mer1den. Hope your 14th is happy same atLer your "awesome" visit. and heal:hy 1 You guys are "Godlike." Love, Kat Goose Mar1a· Ceil, thanx for the candyl Thanks for Sat. night from 9·10. Mart, Reni, Nancy,Pat Hey, Groovies. Morrissey Loan Fund The Other One N.D. Student loans $20·$200. Due in one month. One petcent interest. Ryan,Basement of Lafortune. 11:30·12:30 Up for a game of golf?M-F. Last day for May grads to apply is March 14. 3-in-a-row 3-in-a-rowCharles "Hollywood" Oyer· not just If you can handle a hole in one.another ugly face RyanJanie Byrne· A V.P. we won't have to train. She already lacks enough. Mike Ortman's Right Hand Club. Thanks for the card. We may be · Happy Brilhday Diane Rice Cdlling on you. Congratulations Sheila and Dennis!! Orty  


Tuesday, February 19, 1980 -page 12 
by Beth Huffman nic.ally .has only women's club Women's Sports-Editor SWimmmg.
92-75 
The Irish finish the season In the season finale for both with a 4-3 mark, one that CHICAGO (AP) -Mark Aguir­squads,Notre Dame's swim­pleases Severyn and his assis­re, hitting I 0 of 11 shots in the mmg.club toJ,>ped Saint Mary's, tant, Frank Marcinkowski. 
second half and grabbing 11 73-57, last ntght. The meet at ''This team has a really good rebounds, rurned in a career­Knute Rockne Memorial Pool atmosphere. The girls receive high 40 poinrs Monday night in marked the end of Notre no rewards, they compete be­leading No. J. ranked DePaul to Dame's three seniors (Teri cause they like to swim and I its 23rd consecutive college Fitzsimons, Annette Burrell rarely hear any complaints," 
basketball victory, 92-75 over and Layne Salazar) college ca­st~ted Severyn after last night's w1n.
LaSalle. reers. 
The Blue Demons, winning Junior Elena Rodney paced Patti Meagher, the lone diver the scoring for the Irish by for the Belles of Saint Mary's
their 40th straight game at 
tallying individual wins in the six captured two first placeshome since the final game of 500-yard freestyle (5:57.8), 100-against Notre Dame with victor­rhe 1976-77 season, had trailed yard butterfly (1:09.4) and the ies in the one and three meterby as many as nine points in the 100-year breaststroke (1: 10. 7). events.
first half before Aguirre and 
"Elena had a really good "We really improved thisTerry Cummings helped De-' meet, she especially had a good season and did well,'' offeredPaul pull to within five poinrs, time in the butterfly," com­the junior diver from Kentucky.
rratling at halftime 35-30. 
mented Jim Severyn, the Notre ''But, there is no possible wayLaSalle's Michael Brooks had Dame coach. "Most all of our to take our swimm1ng seriously 
24 poinrs ro establish a new when we don't have adequate
girls are pretty diversified, we school scoring mark of 2,477 hav-e very few specialists. facilities. We did have a lot of points. He eclipsed the 2,462 Today a lot of girls swam in fun this season, we just had to points of Tom GoIa, who played races that they normally don't, make the most of ir and do it for 
in the early 1950s. but they're all willing to try the enjoyment.'' 
The lead :,ad changed hands something new. '' 17 rimes before Cummings put Teri Fitzsimons also turned in At present the Belles practice DePaul ahead to stay 58-56 with an excellent Irish performance, in the Regina Hall pool which is rwo free throws with 9:04 capturing the 100-yard freestyle approximately only 15 yards
Mark Aguirre and his number-one ranked team wzll visit 
remammg. (0:57.8) and the 50-yard free-long and has no lane lines. 
South Bend February 27. Last night Aguirre paced the Blue 
style (0:26.14) while anchoring Arrangements for Meagher toThe Blue Demons finished the 
Demons to a 92-75 win over LaSalle, scoring 40 points. the winning 200-yard medley practice diving were made with
game hitting 22 free throws in a 
[photo by Bzll Marquard] · 
relay. Earlier in the season Notre Dame.row. Fitzsomons qualified for the The Saint Mary's squad fin­"l small college nations, but th(. ished with a 3-6 season recordIn haIf-1nt e senior freestyler cannot com-under the direction of Coach 
Aragon qUalifiesfor NCAA championships pete b~cau'e Not<e Dame te<h-• Steve Smith. • 
by john Smith hlln and helped .the Irish grab [IIIII. StllW cleared a height of 
Wtnter Olymptcs conttnue 
Sports Wn'ter SL'L"nd place wlth a time of I) . 7:5). Macauley and Burger .\hmad Kazimi continued to T TCA h 1J • tfi 1J 
Lhlll k Aragon, tllrned in a lllrned in fine splits with tiL?eS llllll in C<IIISistent good p~r.\o~-as UJ. OtuS JUS ourgotuS ... upvrror pcrtill'lnance over the ol l:)2.2 and 1:52.0 respective-m;UJLt's as he leaped 47 8 1n wvekvnd b>· running the half 1)·. the trrple jump. His distance 
silver medal in the women'smrlc in a ume of 1:50.78. Prane is optimistic that his e.rmed him-a third place finish. LAKE PLACID• N.Y. (AP) · downhill Sunday.
lk-.,pite frnrshing third in the tWII·Illile relay team will qualify lk»pitc not placing among the Barbara Petzold gave East Ger­Jan Hoffman ofEAst GermanyraLc that was held in Ann tlus coming weekend when top five in the competition, Rick many the medals lead in the held the lead over Americans:\rh<~r, Mid1. a1 the Central Notre Dame travels to the i{,gers exhibited a fine showing XIII Winter Olympics yesterday Charlie Tickner of Littleton,
(: .. lit-grate Conft-rt·nce Track Univcrsity of Illinois for the 111 the half mile run. He when she raced to the women's Champr<lllships. Aragon's time lllini Classic. LII\L'rnl the distance in 1:53.6. 10-kilometer cross-country ski Colo., and David Santee of Park W.l'> g<><>d erJ<>ugh to earn him a Ovnshadowed a bit by Ara-victory. And Adreas Wenzel of Ridge, Ill., after the conpulsory "P"' in next month's NCAA gon'" pcrfurmance was the fine 'l{rck (Rogers) ran very well, Liechtenstein grabbed the giant figures round in the men's [,rd... ,,. \:hampionships in De--,IJ ..win_g: of the Irish as a whole. but it was a pretty competitive figure skating event yesterday.
slalom ski lead over favored 

''' •II. l'l1ey hnrshed in eighth place t'~t·ld. Chuck (Aragon) qualified Robin Cousins of Great Britain
Ingemar Stenmark ofSweden in 

lr was lll1t' of the best against such Central <;ollegiate f,r the NCt\As and he only got was fourth. World champion
the first run of the event. 

, , dkgratc h.tlf-mrles run this P"Wt'l' houses as the wrnners rlmd plaLe," said Piane. Vladimir Kovalev of the Soviet
If Wenzel wins the gold medal

>Tar. It really was a great Michigan, Penn State, Michi-,\Iter the lllini Classic,, the Union withdrew after finishing
in his second run today, he and 

race. · · stat('d Iri-;h track coach gan State, and Illinois State. lrr-.,h will cumpete in two more fifth in the first phase of the
his sister, Hanni, would pull offJ"<' Pram· ,urnmrng up Ara-<:... , aptain Perry Stow was the mt'L't» bd(H· the indoor cham­three-phase com petition. 

the first brother-sister Alpine

·g..n'.., pnformame. lughcsl individual finisher for pr<lll»hips. The last Irish home won only gold
Petzold themedal winning act in the history.\ragon al>.o hopes to qualify the Irish as he captured second 1rack meet is on Mar. 7 against medal awarded yesterday, ski­of the Games. Hanni won thet.. r the N< :t\r\ tinals with his piau· in the pok vauLI competi-l,wa. in thl' ACC. 
ing the 10 kilometers in 30
I\V<>·IIllie rel;ty tearnmates, Jay ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
minutes, 31.54 seconds. The\111anda, Tim Macauley, anc! 
victory gave East Germany 12 p,.,e Burger. t\ragon did not medals for the Games, onerur1 111 the r('la> this weekend more than the Soveit Union.
DiSabato tallies 1 OOth career -win
hut .J rrn Slatrcry steppid in for 
The U.S. has four, all in speed skating. The Soviet Union led by Btl/ Marquard decisive 12-5 victory in the scored 60.25 points as a team. in gold medals with six to East Sports Wn'ter tourney finals. It was DiSabatos They trailed only Drake (91 . 2 5) Germany's three. third straight Wheaton title to and Marquette (66. 5) for the Eric Heiden. the American The Dave DiSabatos' Tra­go with a second-place finish team championships. speed skater who already has 
veling Wrestling Show opened his freshman year. The Colum­On Sunday, the wrestling won two gold medals, goes for to an enthusiastic crowd in bus, Ohio native was accorded team returned home for their his third today in the I ,000­Wheaton, Illinois last weekend, Most Outstanding Wrestler last home meet against that race. A third gold would equaland as has been the case this honors for the second time this same Drake team. Tired but the Olympic men's speed ska­
season, the show achieved criti­month adding this award to his fighting to the· end, the Irish ting record last matched in 1972 cal acclaim. National Catholic Invitational lost 29-12. by Ard Schenk of the Nether­And DiSabato's supporting trophy. Wilda defeated Earlywine for lands. Heiden hopes to go on to 
cast of wrestling aficionados Senior Mike Wilda also the second time in two days by a five-event sweep Thursday was equally impressive, as the notched voctor' s laurels at 150 a 9-4 decision. John Iglar and Saturday when he skates in team notched a satisfying third pounds, scoring 14-0 and 5-0 slipped past Marc Poulas 7-6 to the 1, 500 and 10';000-meter place finish out of 23 teams in preliminary round shutouts and notch the second Irish win while events. Ivar Ballangrud of the Wheaton Invitational. a 12-10 victory in the semifi­Captain Chris Favo (142) scored Norway won three in 1936 and 
DiSabato's performance was nals. Wilda downed Drake's aa 8-8 tie over Fred Caslavka. Hjalmar Andersen of Norwaystellar, as usual. The 134-Rod Earlywine in the finals by a And Dave DiSabato upped his won three in 1952. pound senior disposed of his 7-3 count. record to 28-1 and extended his The toughest races, the 500 four opponents in fine order, Freshman Mark Fisher (118), winning streak to a team record and the 5 ,000, are behind him,
1 

notching a fall at 54 seconds sophomoreJohn Iglar (167) and 27 straight with a 14-4 win over : but there was some uncertainty 

Chuck Aragon along with 20-6 and 18-4 deci­senior Tom Wroblewski (HW1) about Saturday's long race, the"
[continued on page 9]

sions in preliminary bouts and a all took third places as the .Irish 10,000. 


