---------------------~-------.............-------------------­
__________________________._._.~__n_n_Po~h-PageB 

VOL. XIV, NO. -1-6-7 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's FRIDAY, APRIL 11th, 1980 
Arts Commission cancels 
Midwest Blues Festival 
by Tom jackman News Editor 
After a special meeting last night with outgoin~ Director Tom Hamel,_-present Cultural Arts Commiss10ner Bill Lawler; and outgoin~ Cultural Arts Commissioner Dave Ellison, newly appomted Student Union Director Rich Coppola announced that the Midwest Blues Festival was officially cancelled after a nine year existence, to be replaced by a similar-scale country rock festival next year. 
Although the Festival had always lost money since its inception in 1971, "it was not so much high cost but low interest," according to Hamel. Coppola pointed out that many students are not familiar with the blues,'' and cited a Student Union survey which found that student reaction would be more favorable to a country rock festival instead. 
Obviously, money did enter into the considerations, and Coppola satd that ''we were considering a one-day, smaller Midwest Blues Festival, and try to lose less money," but he added that this would be no more profitable. 
Hamel observed that the Festival annually relied heavily on support from local residents, and added that "the Student Activities fee (used to finance the event) was goigg 


to support something that South Bend is supporting." A Cla,y Township fireman check.s the damage caused by a fire in the Campus View 
Elltson said that judging by the ratio of cost per student apartments.More photos on page 10. [Photo by Tim McKeoghJ attending the festival, and gauging the average number of students actually going each year, that ratio was "much too hi h.'' 
'¥he proposed country rock festival tentatively set for late No one injured-October or early November, will not be able to draw the big names of the genre, as the Blues Festival did, because the size of Stepan Center would be unable to accomodate a 
Fire breaks out in Campus View
widely popular group or act. 
Instead, according to Lawler, the festival will aim for lesser-known groups such as Appaloosa, a campus favorite by Mary Fran Callahan of Security Rex Rakow was also fireworks in apartments. which, Coppola notes, has dr~wn sizable crow?s between Senior StaffReporter on the scene and commented, "We've been here since'74 and Grace and Planner halls dunng each of thetr last two "We came to see if any of our never haq any problems," he "Welcome Week" appearances. A ftre broke out last night in a people were involved.'' commented. Wilson is meeting 
Notre Dame alumnus Perry Abedi, who started the Campus View apartment at Building residents said that with ftre officials this morning Festival in 1971 and chaired it for six consecutive years, was approximately 10:40 p.m., but flames emerged from the buil­to get what he called "the disappointed but not surprised by the Student Union's the cause of the blaze is still ding, about three feet at their experts' story on it." deciston. ''I expected it. . . within the Cultural Arts unclear, though an eyewitness peak. Fire Captain Mel Billow When questioned about the Commission in particular and the Student Union in general, claimed that apartment resi­commented, however, "All the damage, Wilson said he belie­the University has consistently identified art as an dents' fireworks touched off the damage was primarily confined ved he was ''pretty fortunate." upper-class kind of thing, and the Blues Festival as fire. to the one apartment.'' He He said he was waiting until non-cultural. The Festival was never really understood as No students were injured in would not elaborate on the morning to discuss the fire with somtthing cultural like, say, the Collegiate Jazz Festival or the ftre, but the ·apartment fire's' cause. fire officials because "their 
the Sophomore Literary Festival, but I think the Blues where the fire initially began A South Bend resident, Bob prime job right now is to get it Fesrival presented more culture than the others.'' suffered qamage that firefight­Kronewitter, who lives in a under control.'' 
Incoming Cultural Arts Commissioner Lawler does not ers deemed ''unestimable'' as house directly behind the apart­The ftre department did have predict the ·country rock festival will be much more of last ni~ht. Firemen had to ment in which the fire began, the fire under control fairly profitable than the Blue·s Festival, saying "in order to make axe pornons of the complex's claimed he saw the entire quickly, for within an hour after 
money, we'd have to charge a lot," but he feels the new roof above the apartme.Qt. incident which sparked the the fu-e, residents were allowed festival will be '·something the student would really enjoy.'' Inside the apartment, firefight­blaze. Giving his eyewitness to return to their apartments. Although Lawler expects .some negative reaction to the ers also did so.me axing as well account, Kronewitter said two cancellation of an event which brought to Notre Dame some as extensive hosing. or three students were shooting of the greatest acts in the history of the blues (i.e. Johnny Police declined to release any fireworks off their apartment's Lee Hooker, Muddy Waters, Fenton Robinson), he satd facts or speculation regarding porch. "They'd been letting 

Reagan
"there should be more positive reaction to starting a the cause of the ftre, saying them go off all day long," he :ounrry festival~" they would wait ~ntil mo~ning. said. . He said he was watching the 

will visit 
students, -and suddenly a fire erupted on the porch. The restdents then ran inside to
Carterthreatens to take legalaction St. Mary's
obtain cups and buckets of water to extinguish the blaze. by Tom]ack.man "All of a sudden, they started News Editor 
against U.S. Olympicathletes 
yelling and screaming 'there's such alternative is acceptable. a fire,' "·the witness claimed. The leading contender for the invasion of Afghanistan. 
WASHINGTON (AP) President "If legal actions are neces­Apparently, a resident in an Republican Presidential nomi­
The President also defended 
Carter said yesterday he is sary to enforce the decision not apartment next door then called nation, former California gover­
prepared to take legal action if his policy in the Iranian crisis to send a team to Moscow, I the ftre department. nor Ronald Reagan, will make
and said Iran's leaders lack
necessary to prevent American will take them,'' the President Police, who declined all com­one of his few appearances in
"the cohesion and resolve" to
athletes from participating in said. ment on the incidents leadin~ to Indiana and his only stop in
end the long stalemate over the 
. the Moscow Olymptcs this White House press secretary the blaze, are going to quesuon South Bend when he arrives
holding of American hostages. 
summer. ] ody Powell said any adminis­Kronewitter this morning. here Tuesday, April 22 to give a
Carter previously had told
In a speech prepared for the tration action depends to some ] ohn Wilson, Campus View's 1 p.m. speech at 0' Laughlin
American athletes invited to
American Society of News­degree on what the Interna­general partner, said the buil­Auditorium at Saint Mary's,
the White House that the
paper Editors Convention in tional Olympic Committee, its dings are ir.sured. When according to Reagan supporter
United States would not send a
Washington, the president U.S. component and the ath· ~uestioned about. residential Greg Folley. 
team to the Summer Games
made it clear he does not letes themselves do. But he hability, if the cause was fu-e­Reagan will be campaigning
this year, but there have been
consider the United States said the President contem­works, he declined comment. for the state primary on May 6.
suggestions that some athletes
bound by a decision of the U.S. Three delegates from each of
plates an exercise of his execu­He said he would· meet with
might seek a change in Olym­
Olympic Committee, which tive authoritv, rather than go­apartment residents to find a the state's 11 districts will be
pic rules to permit them to
meets this weekend to consider given to the winner of that
ing into . court to seek to place for them to stay.
participate as individuals or
Carter's call for a boycott of restrain Ame·rican Olympians. The eyewitness had said the district, with the remaining 21
to compete without taking part
the Summer Games. The government could re-fu-eworks were going off all to be awarded at-large to the
in Olympic ceremonies. 

Carter has demanded that day, but Wilson claimed that he
But Carter made clear in his 
Americans boycott the Moscow has never had a problem with
speech to the editors that no [cmJ#nued on page .5] [con#nued on p~ge !7}
Games to protest the Soviet 
• 
• 

_____________________________________________..______. 

{:(ltll~_ll~S--------~------------------F_oo_~_,A_prn_·_u_,l_9s_o-_pa_~_2 
Friday, Aprilll 
11: 15am MASTER LECTURE SERIES, healing components of psychotherapy, dr. jerome frank, johns hopkins u. HAGGAR AUD. spons: dept. of psychology. 
noon SEMINAR, dr. murray straus, speaking on family violence, MEM. LIBRARY LOUNGE, spons: dept. of sociology & anthropology. 
3-6pm SKYDIVING CLUB HAPPY HOUR, skydiving movies, t-shirt sales, 1980 membership signups, everyone welcome, KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS, spons: skyd1ving club, $1 donation. 
4:40pm CELEBRATION, commemorating the 75th birthday of sorin hall porch, spons: residents of sorin hall. SORIN PORCH. 
5:15pm BULLA SHED MASS & SUPPER, spons: campus ministry, BULLA SHED. 
:rpm FILM FESTIVAL, first annual chil;:ano film festival, iesus trevino, spons: mexican-american grad students, LIBRARY AUD. 
7, 9, 1lpm FILM, "animal house" ENGR. AUD spons: student union, admission $1. 
7 & lOpm FILM, "west side story" CARROLL HALL SMC, 
spons: smc kentucky club, $1. 
7:30pm DINNER, hockey awards dinner, ACC. 
8pm SPRING WALTZ BALL, spons: nd chapel choir-ger­many club, live music & refreshments, LAFORTUNE BALLROOM, $1. 
8pm LIONS CLUB TRAVEL FILM, "the can} on" ralph franklin, O'LAUGHLIN AUD. 

Saturday April12 
8am-3pm CONTEST, math contest for women, MADELE­VA CLASSROOM BLDG. 
7pm FILM F,ESTIVAL, first annual chicano film festival, jesus trevino, spons: mecha & mexican american grad students, LIBRARY AUD, reception to follow filn1 in LAW SCHOOL LOUNGE. 
7, 9, 11pm FILM, "animal house" ENGR. AUD. admission $1. 
7 & lOpm FILM, "west side story," CARROLL HALL SMC, spons: smc kentucky club, $1. 
8pm DANCE PROGRAM, classical dance of india, LITTLE THEATRE SMC, spons: india assoc. of nd, $5 (members $4). 
8:15pm CONCERT, notre dame glee club, WASH. HALL, 
no charge.  '  
Sunday, Apri113  
lOam  SAILING  LESSONS,  spons:  nd  sailing  club,  

BOATHOUSE ST. JOE LAKE. 
3:30pm ~ONCERT, "a capella choir of osseo high school, osseo mmn. SACRED HEART CHURCH, spons: music dept. 
4pm PLA¥WRIGHT'S PREMIER, original works by students directed by julie jensen, LITTLE THEATRE SMC 
4pm RESPECT LIFE WEEK, opening mass celebrated by rev. John van wolvear, c.s.c. FLANNER HALL, spons: nd/smc right to life. 
6:45pm MEETING, cila general meeting, spons: cila, LIBRARY LOUNGE. 
7pm MEETING, an tostal staff meeting, L\FORTUNE THEATRE. 
7:30pm RESPECT FOR LIFE WEEK, "the privelege of defending life," rep. henry hyde, CARROLL HALL smc spons: nd/smc right to life. ' 
7:30pm LECTURE, "chance of peace in the middle east" dr. alan k. dowry, spons: international students organiza­tion, HAYES-HEALY AUD. · 
8pm MEETING, organizational meeting, spons: nd students for anderson, LAFORTUNE LITTLE THEATRE. 
8:15pm EASTER PLAY, "pilgrim" SACRED HEART 5=HURCH, spons: dept. of music. 

Magna vox expects big increase in business as result of FCC action 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. (AP) • Before long, radio listeners will be able to switch to AM stations in stereo, and the switch will mean big business for Magna­vox Consumer Electronics Corp., a company official said yesterday. 
"Sure, we'll have a consider­able increase in business,'' said Dan Hall, Magnavox spokes­man. · "I don't expect a significant change in employ­ment in Tennessee, but that's not official." 
About 4,500 workers are employed at two Tennessee production plants in Greenville and Jefferson City, he said. 
Robert Streeter, Magnavox project engineer for the AM stereo system approved Wed­nesday by the Federal Commu­nications Commission, said it would take three months for the company to produce the equip­ment radio stations need. 
But Hall predicted it would take eight to nine months to get the receivers on the market. 
Prof. Schaum 
keeps pos.,t.,on 
Prof. Konrad Schaum has been reappointed to a third three-year term as chairman of Notre Dame's department of Modern and Classical Langu­ages; it has been announced by Prof. Timothy O'Meara, pro­vost. 
~The Observer­
. Night Editor: Margaret Kruse · Asst. Night Editor: 'Cookie' Monk, Mary Kasper Copy Editor: Mary Fran Callahan Layout Staff Nick ''Kahlua will be the end of me yet!" O'Brien, Joel Annable News Erli.tor: Tom Jackman Editorial Layout: Mike Onu­frak, Dave Mandolini Features Layout: Molly Woulfe Sports Layout: Mike Ortman Typists: Kim Convey, Kathy Murray, Cindy Jones, Carol Shuback, Pat Shaughnessy EMT's: Liz Huber, 'Cookie' Monk Proofreader: Daniel K. Ryan III, Paul E. Hurley III ND Day Editor: Patsy Camp­bell Ad Design: David Wood, Joe Mulflur Photographer: Tim Mc­Keogh 
Guest Appearances: Fe. 
Griff, Darby II, Tom McDer­mott, Thanks to Keara Smyth for the great "stuff!" 
Tilt Observer [USPS a 121) Is publillltcl Mllldly thrwgh Frtdly II· cept during lllllllllllwiCIIilll ........ The Observer 11 publilllld 119 IN dudlnts .t Nttrl 0.. IMI Saillt 
Mlfy"l c..... ~~~---..,.Jlllrdlised t1r S2l I* yur ISW I* 111M1t8rl trem The Observer. 1'.0. lla 
0. Nllrl b11111, IIIIIIIRI 4Eil. s-d diu llllltiOI pilei, Nih 011111, ... diiRI ..... 
The Observer Is 1 ...,... If 1111 Aaailtld Praa. AH ,.......... rigtltllf"l I"IIIMCI. 
"There's nothing we can do until the order comes back from the FCC and stations decide to go on the air with it," he said. 

Hall said Magnavox, which is based in Fort Wayne, was recommended by the FCC be­cause "ours is the most cost-ef­fective unit. We came out number one.'' 
Streeter said it was possible to modify existing AM recievers to pick up the signals, but that it probably is not practical. 

"If a technically inclined person felt very ambitious he could indeed modify existing receivers,'' Streeter said. ''I think the effort involved would be so expensive that it would be much easier and cheaper to go out and buy a new receiver. 
Stereo radio broadcasts pre­viously were limited to the FM band. The action by the FCC opened it to the AM band in effect set a single set of technical standards for the manufacturing of AM stereo transmitting and recieving e­quipment. 
FCC officials estimate an 
AM-FM stereo receiver could 
be produced for only $2 to $8 
more than the AM mono-FM 
stereo receivers now on the 
market. 
Commission officials said 
they expected the real market 
for AM stereo receivers to be in 
the automobile industry, since 
consumers might be . slow to 
trade in their exisiting home 
recievers. 
Magnavox was selected over four other competitors despite a recommendation by the FCC broadcast bureau. The bureau said the five systems were so close in performance that it would be arbitrary for the commission to name one as the best. 
However, the FCC said that although the systems, were similar, they are incompatible·. 
campus

miniStry 


Thus, if it was left to the marketplace, some broadcas­ters might pick one system and others another, and only recei­vers built for each particular system would be able to pick up that system's stereo signal. 
The other companies whose systems were rejected in favor of Magnavox were Kahn Com­munications Inc., The Harris Corp., Belar Electronics Labo­ratory Inc., and Motorola Inc. 
The FCC's decision does not mean Magnavox will be the only company that can market its system. Under a compulsory licensing scheme, any company will be able to build an AM stereo receiver but will have to pay · Magna vox a fee for that right. 
Magnavox Consumer Elec­tronics is in the _Process· of moving its faciliues from here to Knoxville, Tenn. A new plant has been built in Knox­ville, but is not in full operation. 




Film-maker 
hosts 


festivities 
Today is the last day of the first annual Chicano Film Festi­val, sponsored by the Mexican Amencan Gruduate Student and MECHA. 
Jesus Trevino, a noted Chi­cano film-maker, will host t<?day's festivities by showing hts Academy Award winning film "Raices de Sangre." The film, which is in English and Spanish, will be shown at 7 
p.m. in the Library Auditoriu~: 
Sunday Masses at Sacred Heart 
(tor April 13, 1980) 
5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Giffin, C.S.C. 9:00a.m. Sunday Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C. 10:30 a.m. S..mday Rev. Niels Rasmussen OP 12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
7:15p.m. Vespers Rev. Niels Rasmussen, OP 

13111AWI~( J~JJ/11~1)()1 tilt? flt?§llrnctll W1ltlll" ()f()~fctrn 
• 

l>l' W~cl~~~§clctl' ~ 4rrl11t>. 
\ 
I 
[. 
I, 
The Observer 

Iran, Iraq exchange insults, bullets in border skirmish 
(AP) -Iranian and Iraqi forces, supported by helicop­ters, exchanged artillery and mortar fire across their troubl­ed border yesterday, Tehran radio reported. It said the Iranian command dispatched ships into the Northern Persian Gulf to guard against "any aggression" from Iraq. 
Iran's news agency reported a bomb blast killed one person and wounded 20 in the south­western port city of Abadan, near Iraq. It blamed the Iraqis. 
The Baghdad government, calling on other Arab nations to rally behind it a~ainst Iran, denounced revoluuonary leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini in bitter terms. 
''This crazy, racist Khomeini is nothing but . a turbaned shah," the official Iraqi News Agency said in an editorial. 
The government-run Tehran radio said 14,000 Iranians ex­pelled from Iraq by the Bagh­dad government had poured across the border into the western Iranian province of Ham, and 11,000 more had arrived in Kermanshah prov­ince, just north of Ilam. 
Tensions between the Mid­east neighbors, which have long been antagonistic, erupt­ed into violence earlier this week, when Iran reported cross-border assaults by small bands of Iraqi troops. 
Khomeini and other leaders of Iran's Islamic-oriented rev­olutionary government called on Iraqis to overthrow their secular, socialist regime, head­ed by President Saddam Hus­sein. The two countries have conflicting territorial claims, and the friction has been heightened by turmoil among the Kurdish ethnic minority that overlaps the border and among the Arabs of southwest Iran. 
Most of the fighting has centered on an area near the Iranian border-town ofWasr-E­Shirin, some 300 miles west of Tehran and 90 miles northeast of Baghdad. 
Tehran radio said the ex­changes continued Thursday for the third day. An Iranian commander in the area said Iraqi artillery fire -reaching as far as seven miles into Iran ­had damaged a police post and destroyed three peasant hous­es, Tehran radio said. 
The broadcasts said three Iraqi helicopters flew over the battle area. The Iranians also have been reported using hel­icopters in the skirmishing. 
The Iran-Iraq showdown and the Tehran hostage crisis were linked yesterday by one of the Moslem militants holding 50 Americans at the U.S. Em­bassy in Tehran. 
The militant told NBC-TV the hostaies would be killed if Iraq, whtch he called a U.S. ''puppet,'' invaded Iran. 
In Washington, a top White House offirial told reporters, "If they should kill any of our people, a border spat with Iraq would be the least of their problems.'' 




NICKlES 

Friday, Aprilll, 1980 -page 3 
Common Market gets tough with Iran; hintsofeconomic sanctioris 
(AP) -Western European 
nations told their Tehran am­
bassadors to "demand" that 
Iran release the 50 U.S. Emb­
assy hostages. 
The toughly worded declara­
tion by the nine Comn:Jn 
Market nations stopped short 
of joining in U.S. sanctions 
against Iran, but it hinted that 
some action might be taken 
later. 
In Tehran, meanwhile, the Moslem militants holding the Embassy made a new death threat against their American prisoners, captive for 159 days. 
The hostages will be "de­stroyed" ifiraq invades Iran, a mtlltant identified only as "Habib" told NBC-TV in an interview. 
Iran and Iraq are engaged in a fresh round of border hostil­ity and each has accused the other of actin~ on behalf of 
U.S. "imperialtsts." The Iranian military said yesterday the border region had been quiet since artillery and small-arms skirmishin~ in Iran's Kermanshah provmce Wednesday, but it ordered Iranian naval units to leave the port of Abadan and cruise the northern Persian Gulf to 
"counter any aggression" by the Iraqis. 
The militants threatened Wednesday to kill the hostages if the United States attempted any "military intervention" against Iran. 
''Habib" said in the inter­vie}" that "by military inter­vention we mean if the Amer­ican government directly inter­venes in Iran or if its puppets in the region, like Egypt, Iraq and Israel, intervene in Iran.'' 
Carter on Monday broke diplomatic relations with Iran 
Applications due 
Thursday 
Applications for movie spon­sorshtp for the fall semester are now available in the Student Union. Any club or organiza­tion wishing to sponsor a film must return its application to the S.U. secretary no later than 4 p.m. Thursday. 


N.D. Law School 
Happy Hour 4-6pm 

All future lawyers Barristers and Counselors welcome 
16oz.drafts 50¢ 2 miixed drinks for the price of one 

and imposed an almost total 
U.S. economic embargo against it. He also said "other actions" mi~ht become neces­sary to wto the hostages' freedom, and U.S. officials were reported considering a naval blockade or mining of Iranian ports. 
"...The hostages will be 'destroyed' ifIraq invades Iran ... " 
The United States asked NATO countries, Japan. and other U.S. allies to join in sanctions a~ainst Iran, includ­ing reducttons in trade and diplomatic ties. The Iranians threatened to cut off oil exports to any nation that cooperates with the United States -a 

1621 SOUTH BEND AVENUE PHONE 233-4603 254 DIXIEWAY NORTH PHONE 272-2522 
ORDER KEGS NOW II LARGE SELECTION of SPIRIT WINES S BEER HI 
OLD 

~
MILLER LITE
MILWAUKEE 
j
24/12 OZ CANS
KEGS 






7l9­


26~~ 
plusdepos~ 
RED·WHITE 
BUSCH 24/12 OZ CANS
SBLUE 24/12 OZ CANS 
699
499 
STROHS 14/12 OZ CANS 6.99 
\ 
cutoff that experts say could seriously affectjapan, at least. Besides the o· question, the allies would stand to lose billions of dollars in other business with Iran. 
The nine Common Market foreign ministers discussed the crisis yesterday in Lisbon, Portugal, and afterward issued a statement saying thei1 am­bassadors in Tehran would " demand" of Iranian President Abolhassan Bani-Sadr that the hostages be freed, and that he outline plans for their release and set a date for it. 
The European ministers said their countries' policies toward Iran would be "frozen" until they received a response from Bani-Sadr, and they would then define their new posi­tions. 
Their statement called the Tehran hostage-holdins "con­trary to the basic princtples of international society'' and it "strongly deplored" Iran's dis­regard ofU.N. Security Council resolutions calling for the hos­tages' release. 

f 
\ 
The Observer Friday, Aprilll, 1980 -page~ 
\ 

Three members of the Indi­ana Province of the Holy Cross Fathers will be ordained Roman Catholic priests tomorrow at 
1:30 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church, by the Most Rev. William E. McManus, D.O., bishop of the diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend in Indiana. 
They will be honored by members of their family and of the Holy Cross community and other friends at a reception which will follow in the LaFor­tune Student Center on cam­pus. 
,,.,.,•. lf'!lf!,tm). nohar, CS. C t<ev. Mzchae/ (J. Couhig, C.S. C. 
Those to be ordained are: Michael D. Couhig, C.S.C., Sedalia, Mo., William]. Dohar, C.S.C., Warren, Ohio, and William D. Dorwart, C.S.C.,
~( aii1JIIt;£f_()f 
Sidney, Neb. Father Couhig, 32, deacon at
UJ·I 
St. Joseph's parish, South Bend, Ind., graduated from the
1)). J~l· )f'~~ '"(tll()"f?l University of Notre Dame in 1971 and joined the Holy Cross ~.,. >llf ( •••• lll~ (•••) Fathers there when he entered 
Moreau Seminary on the cam­pus in 1974. He received a 
.•~· all. al llf' l11lllf' ~I tJclt'lll master of divinity degree from Notre Dame last May. He lllllf111. lfflff'• made his first religious vows in Holy Cross Novitiate, Benning­ton, Vt., in 1976. During his time in the semi­··~·· .... •· llhlf' nary, in addition to serving rwo years at St. Joseph's parish in South Bend, he founded the Indiana-Michigan regional branch of the national Catholic coalition for Responsible In­vestmenr and worked on the Holy Cross Fathers' Justice and Peace Commission and as a hospital chaplain in an Indian Reservation in South Dakota. He has also been a staff member of old college, a semi­nary program at Notre Dame. Father Couhig will offer a Mass of thanksgivin~,; on the day after his brdinattOn, Sun­day, in St. Joseph's Church, South Bend, at 11:30 a.m. Celebrating rhe Mass with him will be the pastor of the parish, Rev. Paul G. Wendel, C.S.C., 

HolyCross ordaips 3 
the associate pastor, Rev. Don­ald W. Dilg, C.S.C., and Rev. Jerome]. Wilson, C.S.C., Mo­reau Seminary, Notre Dame, Rev. Michael Glockner, C.S.C., St. Joseph Hall, Notre Dame, and Rev. F. Charles Schreck, 
C. S.C., University of Portland in Oregon. The latter will give the homily. A reception in the parish hall will follow the Mass. 
Father Dohar, 28, deacon at Little Flower Church, South Bend, Ind., graduated from. Kent State University, Kent, Oh10, 
before joining the Holy Cross Fathers at Moreau Seminary, Notre Dame in 1974. He has received rwo· master's degrees from Notre Dame, .in medieval history apd in divinity; he pronounced his first vows in Holy Cross Novitiate, Benning­ton, Vt., in 1976. 
While in the seminary he taught a class for converts in Christ the King parish, South Bend, and assisted in the pastoral care department of St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend, and in a hospital in Portland, Ore. He also worked in a junior high school program for delin­quent children in South Bend. 
Father Dohar will offer a Mas of thanksgiving in little Flower Church, South Bend, at 9:30 a.m., on Sunday, assisted by the pastor, Rev. William J. Neidhart, C.S.C., the associate pastors; Rev. John H. Pearson, C.S.C., and Rev. David H. Verhalen, C.S.C., and Rev. Paul 
D. Mareau, C.S.C., assistant superior, Moreau Seminar}'> Notre Dame. The latter wdl give the homily. A reception in the parish hall will folio~ the Mass. 
Father Dorwart, 31, deacon at St. Patrick's parish, South Bend, Ind., served four years in th~! U.S. Navy as an electronics technician before joining the Holy Cross Fathers at Notre Dame in 1971. He graduated from the University m 1976, having meanwhile made his 
Rev. 
first religious vows in Cross Novitiate, · Vt., in 1975. He will rec master of divinity degree 
Notre Dame at '-V'""''-'·''-'-"''-'~ exercises next month. 
His activities while in 
seminary have included a in the Holy Cross F missions in Bangladesh service in the pastoral department in St. Josei?h Hospital, South Bend, and m ~ naval hospital in Portsmouth·, Va. He has been a "Bi Brother'' to an eight-year ol Mishawaka, Ind., bor., an hel~ed organize a jad bon proJect in South Bend whic helps deserving but poor indi­viduals provide bail. Hi. musical compositions, ''A Cu of Blessing,'' for various Ro­man Catholic liturgies hav 
been published by the Av Maria Press at Notre Dame. 
Father Dorwart will celebratt a Mass of thanksgiving in St Patrick's Church, South Bend on Sunday at 10:30 a.m. Celebrating with him will be th pastor, Rev. Thomas K. Zur­cher, C.S.C., the associate pas­tors, Rev. Jose M. Martelli, 
C.S.C. and Rev. Vincent C. Thilman, C.S.C. Father Dor­wart will give the homily. Rev. Mr. W. Thomas Hamilton will assist as deacon. 
Government cautions automaker on seriousness offinancial situation. 
foreign creditors. 
In Detroit later m the day, 
Chrysler said its 1980 losses 
would total about $100 more 
than the $550 to $600 million it 
had projected earlier in the 
year. 
Chrysler blamed the increase 
on right money, which has kept 
its dealers and customers from 
buying as many cars as they 
might have. 
The company last week said 
its more than 150 lenders had 
given ''pr-eliminary concur­
rence·' to its refinancing propo­
sals. 
The Chrysler Corporation 
Loan Guarantee Board, which 
oversees the program, hedged· 
on whether the proposal was 
acceptable. 
''The current status of nego­
tiations does not provide a basis 
for determinin~ whether the 
plan will be achieved and would 
be consistent with the statutory 
requirements," the board's re­
port said. 
The five member board, hea­
ded by Treasury Secretary G. 
William Miller, must approve 
Chrysler's financing program 
before the loan guarantee can 
be issued. It has the authority 
to change the requirements. 
The 21-page analysis, which was the board's first semi-an· . nual report since Congress 
approved the bail-out program last December, said the na­tion's No. 3 automaker ap­peared to be underestimating Its ability to cope with them. 
Chrysler, the report said, ''has .~a?e considerable pro­gress m recent months at developing operating and fi­nancing plans to correct prob­lems. But it cautioned, "The seriousness of its situation is not to be underestimated." 
Chrysler last year lost $1.1 billion, for the largest corporate loss in history. 
The company is predicting that this year 1t probably will lose berween $550 million and $650 million, the government report said. 
"The plan's projected 1980 loss... appears too low in light of the company's first-quarter performance," the report said. 
It added that Chrysler's pro­posed financing plan, which projects cash needs through 1983 of approximately $3.5 billion plus a $1 billion finan­cin~ contingency, is shortsight­ed m that "the potential need for federal assistance is signifi­candy underestimated.'' 
Under the law enacted by Congress, some $1.43 billion of the company's cash needs were to be met with non-federal financing. 
:-Ctiii:\Cill.:\\\,\) \\EST, !\-IISU. 
259-8110 ~2.fl.l l S ·'I :\OR rtf, SO. 81-:~D 277-t.JSS 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Feder­al authorities said yesterday that Chrysler Corp. may be in deeper trouble than the auto­maker thought, an opinion that Chrysler seemed to confirm by announcing later that its 1980 loss will probable total $750 million, $100 million more than predicted previously. 
The government said in a reporr Issued here that the automaker would not be able to fultill the requirements set by Congress lasr year for a $1. 5 billion federal bail-out pro­gram. 
:\s a result. the troubled company intends to ask the Carrer administration to change the ground rules so Chrysler can qualify for the federal loan guarantees it needs to help secure financing, the report said. 
Specifically, Chrysler has proposed that it be allowed to cur from $400 million to $209 million the amounr that it must ger in new loans from U.S. banks. which so far have been unwilling to extend new credit ro ChrYsler. 
In exchange, Chrysler said it would sell $210 million more in assers than the loan-guarantee law requires and raise $169 million in cash through new loans and loan concession from 
. -. --------.... ---·-··--·----···---··----·.............. -. 
The Observer Friday, Aprilll~ 1980 -page 5 
Lewis nets hundreds ofvoters despite registration difficulties 

byEariRix 
The recent voter registration 
drive headed by Paul Lewis 
netted roughly 400 to 500 
newly registered Notre Dame 
voters in addition to the 583 
that were already rf"gistered, 
according to St. Joseph County 
Registrar Corrine Wroblewski. 
Controversy remains, however, 
concerning Lewis' allegations 
that Wroblewski made student 
registration as hard as possible. 
Wrobleswki, for her part, 
charged that Lewis was "beli­
gerent" and "insolent." In 
criticizing Lewis' organization 
Wroblewski said, "They didn't 
get started soon enough and 
they didn't go about it in the 
right way. It was the poorest 
(voter registration) organiza­
tion. There was no organiza­
tion, I think, to it.'' 
Lewis maintains that he was well-prepared organizationally 
and said that the drive, ''was 
co-sponsored by student gov­
ernment, the government honor 
society, the off-campus council, 
Young Democrats, College Re­
publicans and the Carter and 
Kd"nnedy groups on campus." 
Lewis initially requested 30 
deputies for registenng !?tU. 
dents--and 1500 forms. Only 
three students were deputized 
and at first they each received 
Club sponsors 
happy hour 
The Skydiving Club is spon­soring a Happy Hour today held inK of C Hall from 3-6 p.m. In addition to the happy hour, students can purchase club tee shirts, see skydiving movies and sign UJ? for 1980 member­ship. Adm1ssion is $1. 
only 20 torms on a ""turn one in, 
get one back'' basis. 
Wroblewski defended her 
position by saying that, ''I 
really overstepped,'' by depu­
tizing three persons from ND 
because she 1s only allowed to 
deputize an additional two per­
sons per precinct. 
Wroblewski relented and 
gave the three deputies, Paul 
Lewis, Greg Anselni, and Sean 
Heffernan, more forms, al­
though she maintained the 
"give one, get one" policy. 
Anselni charged that the 
difficulty in getting forms, "se­
verely limited us in mounting 
any real &uccessful drive." 
Lewis said, "We would go to 
the dining hall at 5:00 and run 
out offorms by 5:45. I made six 
or seven trips to the county 
building to p1ck up more 
forms.'' 
Wroblewski denied that the 
availability of forms impeded the student drive with one exception. On a Friday, "We were having printer problems. Lewis came in and got 100 forms. He was irate and despite the fact that I told him he could come in at 8:30 Monday morning, he did not come back until next Thursday and only 3 7 of the forms were -completed. I gave him another 100 to quiet him down. He was very insolent." She says, 
"Paul Lewis has not turned in all of his blank forms. He did not follow through on his com­mitment.'' 
Although Wroblewski has claimed her restrictive policy was necessary to keep strict accounting of the forms, Ansel­mi quotes her as saying, "I'd give you as many as you want but the printer 1s not coming through with the order." 
''Her job should be to make it as easy as possible for people to register. My basic complaint is that she is not doing that,'' said Lewis. 
Wroblewski countered that the students received standard service, "I was doing my job as I do it with every deputy registrar.'' 


"If they had given us 1000 forms, we could have gotten off a successful campaign. She tried to discourage student registration probably because students voting as a block could sway an election in St. Joseph County," said Anselmi. 
"In St. Joseph County we're interested in getting everyone to vote. But really, as a student of ND do you consider this your legal residence?" Wroblewski asked. "They (ND students) should vote absentee from their home. They would not have an interest in the county." 
Wroblewski stressed that her _ views had not affected her conduct in student registration. "I cannot say no to anyone. I didn't say it (student registra­tion) was illegal." 
In trying to understand Wroblewski's statements dis­couraging student registration and her simultaneous protesta­tions that she was cooperating fully with the students, Anselmi concluded, "Nothing adds up with her to a fluid statement except there was a sentiment that she would restrict us as much as possible." 
Paul Riehle, student body president, attributed the low registration to "poor timing for student organizations gettin~ it done and a lack of cooperation on the part of the registrar." Riehle added, "We're going to try to get the entire campus registered through student government next fall. It will be a high priority for us to get represented in the communi-. ty." 
Paul Lewis 
[continued from page 1] 
voke the athletes' passports or stamp them invalid for travel to the Soviet Union, but Powell indicated the administration is reluctant to use that power. 
He noted that the United 
States traditionally has per­mitted people to leave the country if they wish and a determined athlete probably c~uld find a way to Moscow 
... Athletes 
regardless of passport restric­tions. 
Asked what authority the President might exercise, Pow­ell said, ''There is clear author­ity to make sure nobody goes representing the United States, •• 
but he added that Carter has no intention of making the 
· United States like the Soviet Union ''where they shoot peo­ple trying to leave the coun­try." 

.,. 
Friday, Aprilll, 1980 -page 6




EditoriafS 
P.O.BoxQ Notfor Pre-Meds only 
Michael Onufrak 
·No to equal coverage 
Dear Editor, 
We would like to take the time to respond to a previous letter published in The Ob­server regarding the lack of coverage given to the Breen­Phillips interhall basketball champions. 
We feel that the lack of coverage was justified in that there is a corresponding lack of interest in their exploits. Although we agree that equal opportunity for women in ath­leucs is important, it is obvious that media attention is given where it is deserved and not to areas where no one cares. The Observer did not purposely ignore the contributions of Notre Dame women to the school but simply reported the news in order of importance to the readers. 
Interest in girl's basket ball is certainly lacking. 
Paul Caron Roger Morgan Mike Shanley Tom Wasilewski Chris Patn'coski 

Winnimac trial revisted 
Dear-Editor: 
· No way Pat Toomey, I can't let you get away with your attack. on Ford. I can't guess what your motive might be. (Sour Grapes? As a senior BA, were you spurned in your quest for employment by the corpor­ate world?) Or could it simply be a case of malignant liberal­ism? Whatever your motive, your statement "Ford has proven once again that you can get away with murder if you have enough money," clearly reveals your ami-business ~;>re-­judice, and, in my opimon, would justify a Ford libel suit against Pat Toomey. Thank ~oodness you were not on the JUry. 
In such a case as the recent 
Ford trial at Winnimac, the 
burden of proof lies on the 
prosecution. Physical evidence 
mdicates a speed differential of 
at least 50 mph--regardless of 
the Pinto's speed at the time of 
impact. (By the way, would the 
ev1dence in question have been 
"dug up" if it had been 
presented by the prosecution?) 
The car's gas cap may or may 
not have been in place. 
(Though the car had been 
recalled, ev1dence suggests that the improvements to the fuel tan!; · wuuld have meant little in such a violent collision.) 
The Pinto was as safe as other 
comparable 1973 compacts, the 
Ulrich girls just happened to be 
in the Pinto. It was struck by a 
van whose owner had adjusted 
the bumper to a height which, 
tragically, aligned it with the 
Pinto's gas tank. Those are the 
facts. They cannot be overlook­
ed. 
Additionally, any first year 
physics student can tell you that 
a van travelling at the same 
speed as a car has more 
momentum, because it weighs 
more. Would the Pinto have 
survived a rear-end crash with 
a bicycle travelling at 50 mph?. 
As for the assertion that Ford 
marketed a car which was not 
totally safe in the pursuit of 
profit, I agree. But don't 
rejoice, I haven't joined your 
camp. Could Ford have manu­
factured a totally safe auto· 
mobile? Perhaps, but it would 
have looked like a tank! 
Eve~·time we drive or ride in a 
car, we put our very lives in 
jeopardy. Would you consider 
Ford at fault if the three had 
been killed at a speed differen­
tial of 100 mph? An extrapola­
tion of your arguement hints 
that you would. Is this a lack of 
corporate responsibility? I 
think not. On the contrary, if 
Ford produced "tanks" which 
were totally safe yet wasted 
vast quantities of raw materials 
from steel to oil, I would 
consider that an example of 
corporate irresl?onsibility, not 
to mention stupidity. 
Forgive me, Mr. Toomey, ifI seem harsh; but part of my anger is directed at Michael Cosentino and Ralph Nader for their post-trial reactions. No corporation is perfect, but very, very, few fit the definition of criminally greedy. Ford does not belong in that group, and the jury's decisioa ("Ford was acqunted', of course.") was 
indeed the correct one. 
Frank Oelerich 

Headline travesty 
Dear Editor: 
It is a travesty to. JUn head­
lines like the one yo~ ran over 
the story of Adiihbishop 
Romero's death (MarctJ 26). In 
bold letters you printed, 
"Rightists Kill Rometo." . But 
there is nothing in the news 
report to support that specific 
conclusion. 
It may turn out that the [ightists did kill the archbishop, 
but it rna'' also turn out that the 
leftists dido' t. 
Running a headline like that is at best an irresponsible mistake. At worst, it is the antithesis of objectivity--a dis­guised ideological bias. 
Bob Allen, Jr. 
Being a pre-med at Notre Dame is a lot like not, these things would take the place of the South Bend weather--just when you would valuable study time, all of which must be expect things to get bette(, they get worse. u~i~zed to the fullest ifthe r.r~-med is to reach 
Just as I returned from vacation 10 Florida and h1s JUSt reward--med schoo. In fairness to the naively expect~d to be greeted by spring-like rest of us, I must admit that occasionally at weather, so dtd the average (equally naive) least a few pre-meds choose to imbibe (if onlypre-med return from his or her break to on the we~kend~), but this is merely to wash a~iously await the end of the semester's ~":'~Y the 1gn~m10y and ft:Us~ation ca1:1sed by 
ngorous battery of physics and biology tests. .ad10g a phys1cs test. Thts qf course ts most :\s almost all pre-meds must know by now, this readily excusable. : · ts not to be. Finally, there's that guy in your section whose 
MCAT's are the equivalent of a stiff grandmother died before break consequentllflurry-laced April wind to Notre Dame'~ preventing him from joining you and the rest o pre-~eds. This test--a major factor in one's the guys on that camping tnp.' He was one too admatance to the Promised Land known as and what's worse, he was a gu'ilty one. You •e~ dental or medical school--will be administered he wantc;d to go on that camping trip as badlyto the pre-~eds in the coming weeks and, if you as you d1d, but then he remembered that stiff have~ t nouced, many of these folks have been Apr~l gale, the MCAT's. Overcome by guiltstudy10g for them diligently. feeltngs he made up that story about his I don'_t know if you number a pre-med among grandmother and went home to study for the your fnends, but I h~ve had the opportunity to test. That's right, you read correctly, he went 
not only get to know ~ few personally, but also home to study over break. to actually room wtth one for almost two As you c~n see from these examples sem~sters now. Perhaps one lives right in your pre-meds certainly can't be stereo-typed. i section and you don't know it. This may be the mean, y~u could say t_hat; t~ey're slightly case, so let me list a few of their traits and pre-occupted by the academtc s1de of life, but better-known ~abits ':"hich, I'm sure you'll see, so are many others here at ND. No, I think make them qune easdy recognized. pre-meds are among our most well-rounded and 
First, re~ember that guy who always brought socially active community members who fall the chemistry workbook to your 9 o'clock into no specific stereotypical category. To those Freshman seminar? Yep, he was one. The ofyou who dtsagree I say go tb the library some 
reason rou probably couldn't tell was that he Fnday night and ask one. was s.til in ~he devc;lo~ing stages. He probably So now that you can identify them, be nice to had~ t ded1cated h1s life to getting accepted to them. Those MCAT's are not going to be easy med1cal school yet, and may have even still and they're only the beginning. Next will come been considering such mundane and less med school applications, interviews, rejections economically-rewarding vocations as the priest­and then the rigors of medical school itself. hood or possibly professional basketball. The cruel South Bend weather will one day end 
How about that girl you tried to pick up at the for the rest of us, but the pre-med can never bars sophomore year? You know the one who escape. asked about your GP A and SAT scores in high school? That's right, she was one too. The Michael Onufrak is editorials editor o( The reason you couldn't tell that time, was the way Observer. This is the first of what wzlf be a s~e slurre~ her words. Not that pre-meds are weekly column bamng academic g1ven to dnnk or any other diversion. Of course pressure, death, tllness or a missed deadline. 
Hesburgh wron.g on. voluntarism 

Don Sacco 
Dear Fr. Hesburgh: 
With all due respect, your Chicago Tribune 
article of Feb. 28 is based 00 gross misinfor-"From 1969 on, Nixon expanded and marion or extreme naivete. Your article smacks intensified the air war, doubling the total of the same propaganda unleashed· 00 the tonnage of bombs dropped,-so that after two public by the U.S.' government, Mobil Oil years and a few months of his administration Corp., Commonwealth Edison, IBM and ITT. the United States had dropped more bombs on T~e sim}Jarities are_ striking,_. and 1 migh~ add Indochina than it had in both the European and fnghten10g, and po10ts of Vlew expressed are Pacific theatres during World War II. The dangerously simplistic and deceptive. . tac~ical strikes in South Vie~nam co~tinu<;d 
Your comparison ofAmerica to Russia, China whtle th_e B-52s ex~anded the1r operauons 10 or Czechosl_ovak_ia smacks of what author David norther1_1 Laos, .turm?g a large percentage of Hapgood, 10 h1s book The Screwing of the t~e Lao_po~ulauon and most of the Montagnard Av,erage Man, c_all~ "youtooism." Hafgood tnbes u;tto r_efugees.. U.S. opelattons over defined: ''yoptoOism' • as: 1) the belie thaf> Cam~o~1a fimshed the JOb the troops h_ad t~en whatever applies to the rich applies to the o~, _kdl10g thousan~s. Of p~ople and d1splac10g average, man, too; ~) the strategy for sed~ng mtlho~s. The admt~lstrauon. also renewed. the people mto accepting their own screwing. It bom~10g of North ,V•etnarr;t wtth wh3;t Amen~an • 
' consists of giving the average man just enough offi~Ials c3:lle_d ·protec~•ye r,eactlO_n st~Ikes of a .break to convince him of his benefitting aga10~t ant~-a•rcraft posltlo~s. This had of fiom the sysrem. b?mb10g d1g .~ot substantially affect Nort~ 
What you believe to be the strongest point of VIetnamese mduary strength, but perhaps 1t your ·article, the Cambodian case study, "a w~s not even destg_ne~ for such a purpose. classic example of the private and public N1Xon c_ould only cla1m m a vague manner ~hat sectors of our country cooperating for the J~e stnkes were made _to protect _Amen~an common good·," is in fact your most deceptive, · hves.. Ha~ he been Interested 10 . sav10g propagandist argurfient in their defense. The A~encan hves, he w<;H~ld have negouated a story of the Cambodian refugees is indeed wt_thdrawal and. ~ poh.ucal s~ttlemem. The heart-rendering. Your use of their plight is all rai?s v.:ere prov1~10g N1?'on wuh the mean~ to the more alarming. The issue of the ma10ta10 _the ~hleu reg•me a~d the Amer~can Cam~odian refugees is rooted in the Vietnam presence lo Salgol_l for a certa10 length of ~lme confhct. The Vletnam conflict, an American at the cos~ of th~ hves and property of mdltons nightmare, is documented in the Pulitzer Prize of Indoch10ese. 
winning book Fire in the Lake by Frances [continued page 7] Fitzgerald. I quote page 556 of that book: 

Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Editor·in-Chief ............ Paul Mullaney SMC NPws Editor ........... Mary Leavitt Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor .............. Mark Rust Sports Editor ............... Beth Huffman The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Features Editor .............. Kate Farrell 
Editona/s Editor ........... Mike Onufrak 
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. It does not necessarily Features Editor ............ Molly Woulfe
Senior Copy Editor ......... Lynne Daley 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reponed Photo Editor .................. John Macor
News Editor .................. Pam Degnan 
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a 
News Editor ................ Tom Jackman Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges 
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views of their authors. Column s~;>ace is available to all members of the community, and News Editor ............... John McGrath Advertising Manager .. Mike Holsinger the free expression of vary10g opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC Executive Editor .. Margie Brassil Production Manager .... Ann Monaghan 
The Observer Friday, Aprilll , 1980 -page 7 
...Voluntarism 
[continued from page 6] 
The private sector supported ~nd benef!.ted from the horror of Vietnam. the oil compames, the rubber companies, the chemical companies, the liquor companies, the IBMs, the Seagram's, the Lockheed's, the Exxon's: the private sector made its millions from the bloodshed. 
And where was the voice of the Catholic Church during that madness? Where whe~e the newspaper articles of ou~rage and protest In the Sixties and early Seventies? Except for the Berrig~ns and a few other courageous souls who stood up to the C~urch hierarchy'· the Catholic Church in the Umted States acqUlesed to the madness and horror of Vietnam. Cardinal Cooke praised God and passed the ammunition. It is not coincidence that the U.S. Council of Bishops has already b~cked the draft It is not by chance that your arttcle reads like ~n apologist argument fo~ the "blessi~g.s"of corporate America and the mhumane pohctes of the U.S. government. 
Granted, federal re~ulations must be stream­lined and bureaucratic red tape. ~ut. Wa~te must be curbed so that the legmmate soctal needs of citizens can be met. But the voluntarism you speak of is often no more than a guise for cutting food stamp programs for the poor and hungry, social sec~rity for the el~erly, and medical care for the stck. No menuon m your article is given of the "let government do tt" bailouts of Chrysler and :f:ockheed.. . No mention is made of the waste m o~r mtlttary 
and  the  fact  that  the  Pentagon  ts  already  
billions over budget this year.  
You  can  take pride in  the  fact  ~hat  $~00  

million has been raised for Cambodtan rehef. But here's how the private and public sectors supported the Vietnam War. I quote from pa~e 479 of The Peo/Jie's Almanac II: "The confhct 



'Modest 
had cost the U.S. alone $28 million per day since 1961." Fr. Hesburgh, $28 million a day to kill people, to create refu~ee~, and less than $200 milhon to help. Tlits ts part of the bomb-the-gooks-back-to-the-stoD:e-age mental­ity and throw-them-a-Band-Aid-to_-help-heal­their-wounds philosophy. Your arttcle repre­sents a camouflage which serves to direct focus away from the truth about the private sect?rs' crimes in Indochina. Crimes that cost the lives of nearly 1. 5 million Indochinese and oyer 55,000 Americans. Which leads. me to questio~ whether your Cambod~an rehef . progr_am ts based on sincere good wtll, or naggmg guilt. Do your efforts represent honest charity or good P ,R. for the pnvate sector? 
Voluntarism for the poor and needy welfare for the rich and powerful. Two ~lus two does not equal five,_ and ~he voluntartsm _you speak of is not Amenca at .tts ?est.. There ts a beautiful spirit of coope!atton In this c,ountry, a spirit of helping and c~m~ ~hat does~ ,t have to be rediscovered or re-mvtgorated: 1t s ~wars been active and alive. This real volunt.artsm. ts an antithesis of the phony mampulative "voluntarism" you speak of. 
This is not a very "polite.". Jette~·· I assure you it is not written in a spm~ of ~srespe~t or argumentative vengeance. It ts wntten wtth a sincere desire to be as "harsh as the Truth and as uncompromising as Justice." . My purp?se has been _to challenge and t? call mto quc;stton 
• ideas vtews and a phtlosophy whtch I whol~heartediy believe present a. clear a~d imminent danger to the well bemg of thts na:tton. 
It ismy sincere desire, _Fr. Hesbur~h .. that you will come to reconst~er y~ur ~tev. s on "voluntarism" and the blessmgs of the private sector. I ho~e you will fmd ~he courage to tell it like it really ts, ~o~ as the pnvate sector would have us belteve tt ts. 
This article is a response to Fr. Hesburg~ 's ! ttb. 28 Chicago Tn"bune article. Don Sacco ts a resident of Chicago. 
Editor's note: Though the Administration has fi:JreatJ:r submitted its solution to the problem of ~omply~ngdwtt~ Title IX regulations, Prof'].]. Carberry has submttte thts alternative proposal. 
All are aware' of the potential death threat to hockey a.n9 
mino! SJ?ort~ at this university. In .th~}nst~f1C!; othockey~,the ttmtOg ts an act of bureaucratic · bea~ty , gtven rhe noble achievement of some twenty youngster~ ar Lake . Pladd--youngst~rs who once flayed hockey m profitless collegtate programs; · 
Now, the conventional""'"""""' 
academic institution is t>r<)fil>·mlakin,re~nt•ett~t~~e understood ,by the ra survive by consistently 
accounting, a college or achieve thts admirable losing units require suppo~ comman<l an annual profit. tY 
So, for example, while enJ;tinleer.l.Qglsc;J.CDlt• the same tuition do operating aS~!OClllte:d education is t>a'tetlltlY trn~atc~r 
education. / ··' 
intrinsically more · · .·. · · 
the Colleges of Science and Bneineerlng­hand, the overhead monies awarded to me and Ol)rtctlte:agt1es na.!-s·u: 
and then on to the Jess support. And prope~ly so. or.it is fa..t', .. research suppon tn heterogeneou~·..(~a~"YJ~.ts scholarship on Dante or Shakespeare. think so and so celebrate any medl;:uU:stfi money redistribution which benefits our ~olleaw~!!sitt/ Liberal Arts. 
Regarding that other dimension the experience, athletics,. this ...· · te•tfistrilt>u~:ibttll~.;#Jt > long been a reality in a school's in.terc:o..llejtial:e 
f~S:~~n~br:~~~t?a~~~~.~;;,~;sj~~s~pp~~:J.t~:c•'·
only revenueJess and profitless ..mmor · sp()rtS bur a vast intramural program as well. But why are baseball, hockey,, 
etc. considered" • 'minor''? Because diey doD:~;* J1lake .rn<>tJ,e.y! , At John Hopkins football is a ''minor" spc>n; lacrosse .l$. · 
"the" varsity spon there. AtNotte Inune 00e wo~? hay~. , to draft students to gain a crowd at a baseball game;' :As fOr., 
hockey, students and others pay to 'Witness·that ~elous game which the late great Professor Frank O'Ma1ley calle~.,.... 
:~!~:~~~· :=~~~ b~ i~d~~~~~d·U:;at}~o~~o!~J:;!
hockey is"minor.'' . c:,;: ·· '"'> ;ti'J" 

Nuclear energy 
Recently I wrote an article defending the use of nuclear power. In it I attempted to put the risks of nuclear power in perspective. Needless to say, the article was not uncontrover­sial: The negative -responses, primarily from advocates of solar power, can be broken down into three points: 1) Solar energy is far safer than ,nuclear energy; 2) Nuclear power pro­vides an unacceptable risk not only now, but far into the future; 3) corporations, in their quest for huge profits at the expense of the people, have stifled the development of solar power. These are serious· concerns and deserve a serious response. 
1. Solar power vs. nuclear power. The optimism concern­mg solar power as a major source of energy is unwarrant­ed. This is due to the simple physical limitations to solar power. These limitations cannot be revoked by Congress: they are provided by nature. Responsible solar advocates, those who have progressed beyond the bumper-sticker mentality, ex~ect solar power at best to constitute 7-10 percent of U.S. energy output by the end of the century. Realistical­ly, this would be confined to water and space heating. 
There are severe physical and technological limitations to both collection and conversion. 
one think, solar collection ....,,,·....., truly massive amounts glass and steel, which are not 
M.T.Owens 
found in nature but which must be produced with an in~rease in attendant risks. Conversion to electricity requires tons of toxic chemicals; conversion to heat requires huge amounts of toxic coolant coursing through com­plicated plumbing. 
2. Nuclear power and long range effects. The responsible way of assessing risk is to compare the risks of alternative sources per unit of power produced. Considering both long· and 'Short-run effects throughout the entire produc­tion cycle, nuclear energy is, per unit of power produced, safer than the feasible alterna­tives. The anti-nuclear Union of Concerned Scientists issued 
·a report in 1977 which said that ifthe U.S. had a very vigorous nuclear program, we might have 15 ,000 associated fatali­ties by the end of the century. What they neglect to mention is that from burning coal--the only alternative to nuclear--now we do have 15,000 fatalities per year. Thus, by burning coal instead of implementing nuclear power, we will, not 
could,  have  300,(>00  excess  
fatalities  by  the  end  of  the  
century.  

We should expect that the same thing will happen to solar power. Despite its limitations, solar energy can eventually contribute to U.S. energy pro­duction (if the hope is not destroyed by the overzealous bumper-sticker cranks). But economic reality will require large scale development. Solar corporations will become dom­inant, and in twenty years Hayden, Sternglass et al. will no doubt be warning us of the dangers of solar energy: Is this how we want to dectde our energy future? 
3. Nuclear opponents otten state categorically that the reason we don't have solar power is because corporations can't make huge profits on it: they "can't patent the sun." This charge has been made before with regard to another form of energy. In 1962, t~e Students for a Democratic 
Society (SDS) issued the Port Huron Statement which called for, among other things, a decentralized America, with self-sufficient communities not 
infant mortality to the use of nuclear power. His claims have called forth technical refuta­tions by the U.S. Public Health Service, the EPA, and four state ~overnments, and his conclustons were repudiated by his own professional organiza­tion, the Health Physics Society. Sternglass's method­ology is extremely questiona­ble. Using it, one could "prove" that the incidence of cancer increases with the con­sumption of wheat. Or it could be '·'proven'' that radiation reduces cancer: for example, Colorado has nearly twice the average U.S. backround radia­tion, due to altitude, but only half the cancer rate of the rest of the country. Sternglass's latest contribution to reasoned scientific discourse is the claim that falling SAT scores are the result of increased use of nuclear power. 
M.T. Owens is Instructor of Economics at Northlake Col­lege, Irving, Texas. 

Recalling the convivial and some­times controversial history of their porch, Sorin Hall residents ,Plan to celebrate the Sorin porch s 75th birthday on April 11, 1980. A lecture, a skit, and a song will highlight the anniversary, which chtefly commemo~ates the. most charming, most dtsputed ptece of porch lore--its birth (April 1, 1905). 
The debate centers upon the only known account of the porch's ori­gins. This etiology appeared in 1948, in the biography of Professor William]. "Colonel" Hoynes, 
Colonel Haynes of Notre Dame, by Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S C. 
Lahey's legend: Once upon a time, "in those less refined days," a favorite "indoor sport" at Sorin Hali was the dumping of buckets of water from an upstairs window onto some beau leavmg the hall for the even­ing. It so happened that one such night, a prankster, for some un­known reason, resolved to soak the University tailor. After hearing the familiar s9ueak of Sorin' s front door the mischtef-maker swung his buc­ket. It happened, however, to be Professor Hoynes, living in a room near Sorin's entrance, who was actually departing through the hall's front door. ''Immaculately clothed for some formal affair in Washington Hall," the Colonel had stepped out of Sorin a mere ten steJ?S in front of the tailor. And on thts night, the bucket's deluge found Hoynes, "to the immediate discomforture of everyone concerned.'' The ''culprits could not help but laugh at the spectaCle before them:'' the wilted Hoynes, '• his fist raised to high heaven,'' never before ''so angry or 
so eloquent." Professor Hoynes "called the guilty ones every name in the calendar, and a few never previously recorded. He questioned their ancestry in a half dozen languages." Moreover, "s~ gr~at was the concern ... among Untverstty authorities over this accidental catas­trophe to one so universally loved that a porch was immediately erect­ed for the future protection of those entering and leaving .... a perpetual reminder of a tragic mistake." 
This fantastical tale, however, 
served only to intensify the mystery surrounding the porch's genesis. For observers of the Notre Dame campus have long suspected this story to be spurious. Among the reasons why: the story lacked sufficient detail, offering neither a date, nor a source, nor a list of the villains; "Dopey Dan" Lahey had a reputation for making up stories; the "victim" had a reputation for pro­pagating myths about himself. . 
Despite these obstacles to verifica­tion, a recent examination of student publications has sugs.ested that the Lahey legend is credt~le. The 1906 Dome yearbook, for mstance, pro­vides a delightful expose that hnks Hynesian drenching to porch con­struction, and a cartoon, ''The Evolution of the Sorin Hall Porch,'' that does the same. Another Dome carries "The Old Water Bucket," a song whose lyrics also support Lahey's story: 
The wzde-spreading tree and the porch that stood by it, The reason for which was that cataracts fell ... And deluged out ''colonel, '' at least mighty nigh it--Alas, for the bucket! that porch was its knell. 
The porch has always. been an observation post of sorts, dating from the present day back to the Hoynes rears, when the Colonel's theatrica entrances and exits across his porc:h-stage drew so much atten­tion. During temperate months, residents have lounged on porch benches, talking and joking, watch­ing the interesting personages stroll past Sorin, to and from Sacred Heart Church, the Main Building, or Sorin itself. In recent years, passers­by have included, of course, co-eds. As part of a short-lived hall tradi­tion, Sorinites held irripromtu beauty contests, in which the porch became the judging box, the front sidewalk the runway, and any passing female the contestant. This custom, in which homemade placards number­ed anywhere from one to ten were flashed at the passing prey (and occasional flirt), has floundered re­cently, however, due to "contes­tant'' objections. 
Before the porch was built, Sorin mail call had taken place under the trees on the front lawn. But after the episode of 1905, mail was oftep. distributed under porch cover to residents assembled on the front steJ?S. Despite the change of deltvery sites, however, the most famous characteristic of mail call remained unchanged. Just as letters ~iven out under the trees were tnspected for a "South Bend" post­mark,. for any evidence of illegal correspondence with some "sister" or "cousin," so, too, were porch­issued letters examined. Although suspect letters were not, as 10 nineteenth century times, turned over to the Prefect of Discipline, Rev. John "Pop" Farley did at least sniff deliveries and tease recipients about any perfumed findings. During the 1930's his thrice daily 
deliveries from the porch made him the hall's most legendary rector. 
Besinning with the 1911 Dom.e, Sorimtes, usually accompanied by a small statue of Father Sorin, have customarily assembled on the porch
tor the ha11 picture, in imitation ot a 
much older campus tradition. (It 
was on the Main Building porch that 
the real Father Sorin used to pose 
with his priests, professors, and 
students for official school portraits.) 
In a recent bit of hall lore, Sorin anti -war demonstrators, in 1969, "seceded" from the University, declaring themselves an indepen­dent "Sorin College. " Replacing the hall's only prevwus sign, a long since replaced ''Sorin Hall'' stained glass above the doorway, the protes­tors attached to the porch cornice a placard reading "Sorin College." Measuring three feet by nine inches, this polished board of gothic script still hangs above Sorin' s main en­trance, to the mystification of most passers-by. 
During the 1970's, the porch has taken on a very festive character. Aside from those infamous beauty contests, the portico has served as a stage for bands, talent shows, and Thursday night pep rallies (for USC, Alabama, and Michigan games, most recently). 
Philip Hicks 


Features Friday, Aprilll, 1980-page 9  
LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Promises to KeepRev. Robert Griffin after all; and what is an old ·ma:n's beautiful"? Who could have taught makes me feel, I could never againShe loves him more than all the duty, ifit is not to offer advice? I am her to be so endlessly endearing? be young enough to make her aothers, she says, and his love for ~er not tempted to tell him his duties as How could she teach anyone to look commitment of caring for a lifetime,gives her the contentment of bemg a bridegroom or a husband, for what after me as sensitively as she looks nor would I want to. It is enough ofcherished. His love is very neces­would I know about such roles? But after me herself? Why, then, should a privilege to worry about her as her sary, she says, for her happiness; sometimes, a wistful look comes into a young dog like me try to give father might worry. essential to her fulfillment as · the his young lady's eyes. Sometimes, advice, like the godfather of a "He loves you," I said. "I trust woman she chooses to be. in conversation, she's not quite sure family, to his rival in love? The most him to love you as much as you need I am doubtful, of course; and of herself. Occasionally, she talks I can say to him, without compro­to be loved.'' though I am not as special to her as too much, as though she were too mising my youth, is: "The best man her father or her grandfather, I feel excited to merely think. Once in a won; but, of course, she knows I • I don't think a husband or wife, a protectiveness like that of a father while, despite all her womanliness have other promises to keep." on their wedding day, knows how faced with the en~agement of a and the glittering evidence on her much love it takes to make aI suppose a father must fidgetdaughter he would sull buy dolls for. finger of her intention to be wedded, marriage. A father may know howwhen hts daughter marries. Is a"Oh, my dear," I say, struggling she struggles to be a child needing much love it takes to see hisbride's being in love and a groom'sto be happy over the diamond she is teddy bears; not, however, as a daughter to her wedding day; butbeing in love enough love to last the weari~g, ''Are you absolutely retreat into the original innocence, even ~fter reaching this landmark of couple for a lifeume? Will youngSUrP~ but in a way that tells you that, for affecnon, I suspect that he feels hismarried love survive to be oldher, being simply a woman is not love for his child is only beginning. She answers me with a hug that married love until all loves become enough. "My dear," I said, "I love yousays: ''All my life, I've been waiting deathless in eternal life? WillHe is young, but I am young also, very much, and I know that I willfor the happiness of being in love. promises made on a wedding daydespite calendars. She has kept me love you as long as I live. If I feel Now, when it has finally happened, I keep their urgency forever? Theyoung with her gifts of Cardin shirts that way, why should I doubt thatcouldn't be mistaken." terror of marriage is that theand Countess Mara neckties, and a your husband will love you at leastcommitments are so unconditional.She is in love with him; there's no musical teddy bear as a remem­as much?" doubt of that. He loves her tenderly, brance on my birthday. On days "Oh, my dear," I say aga~11, ''Thank you, Griffin,'' she said. the way a man should love his bride. when I'm not quite sure of myself, knowing better than she does how Fathers appreciate how beautiful In a year's time, they will be she says: "You're looking very long a lifetime can be, "are you their children really are. They just married; and with heaven's help, I handsome.'' Who could feel wrin­absolutely sure?'' have to understand when the time will be the priest celebrating at die kled after that? Who could doubt "Trust me," she says. She is so has come for turning the caring over wedding. the charm of his appearance when young a woman to be in love, but I to somebody else. They have to My great temptation, of course, is she says: "I don't like moustaches, can feel the depth of her tenderness. know that if teddy bears are needed,1to give him advice. He is young, but I think your moustache is simply yr were as young as lter de·1otion teddy bears will be supplied.  
A Talk 'With NDParietals Mark Ferron "I told the bartender I'd like his to quiet hours. Another ~uy says During tackling drills every time best shDt and so he punched me I'm helping to form Chrisuan mor­Coach yelled, 'Hit that dummy', I'd in the mouth. als. Still another says it's because of wind up with a concussion.'' "I asked him where I might meet the Alumni and Parents. Boy, it's I couldn't resist the obvious pun. some chicks and he told me to go like working for Moe, Larry and "I guess that's what they call over to the Galvin Biology Building. Curly. Breaking Parietals," I smirked. "Man, what a night. And to top tt "And my bosses and me don't· Parietals looked hurt. He shook his off I have to work again tonight." communicate too well. They sent head, emptied his drink and ordered "What is it you do. Mister, me to break up a pot party but when a double. "I don't get no Respect,"Mister ... ? I'm sorry, What is your I got there I couldn't find a single he muttered again and again. name? " I asked. piece of Tupperware. I was sup­He continued. "I tell ya, I'd like to "Parietals. N. D. Parietals, and posed to confiscate the bong, but I get out of this racket, get into I'm sorry too. My job is to enforce didn't see any bells so I left. something a little easier. Get athe rules governing intersex visita­''And this crazy job even affects my cushy job like enforcing the 'Notion in the dorms over at Notre social life. How' d you feel if every Kegs' rule on campus or something. Dame. Prison Work! " time you showed up at a party I'd even like to retire. Every year I''Surely it isn't that bad,'' I everybody left? turn in my letter of resignation butsuggested. His eyes bugged out "It sure doesn't help me meet girls the Board of Directors refuses toeven more at me. either. I've always had problems accept it. So here I am again.""Isn't bad?! Ho boy, I tell ya, my with girls--don't get no Respect. I Parietals ordered two more doublejob is the pits! I gotta watch all 16 finally got to take out this one girl. men's dorms and all 6 women's When I took her home, she-told me Scotches and offered one to me. dorms to see that there aren't that I reminded her of the ocean. When I declined, he casually emp­Although the place was terribly members of the opposite sex to­'Because I'm sort of wild, romantic tied both glasses. crowded when I came in, he sat at gether after visitation hours are and restless?' I asked. 'No,' she "Well, I gotta go now. Latethe bar all by himself, an empty seat over. And now they're building two said. 'Because you both make me already. Supposed to have been toon either side of him . I walked over more dorms! sick.' work at 2:00 and it's· almost three.to one of the chairs next to him, ''But i:ny problems with women go"The way it is now, my job isn't Geez, 1 hope the hot dog stand isordered a beer and sat down. . way back to my childhood. I neverexactly easy either, ya know. Do you still open." Parietals stood up,He was wearing a ratty suit coat got no Respect as a kid. My mother know what it's like to try and throw heaved a sigh and said, "I tell ya, Ia~d a tie that w3:s tied too tightly. an amorous 250-pound lineman out didn't breast-feed me because she don't get ... " Hts eyes were btg and bloodshot. of Lyons at 2:05? It's not a pretty said she wanted to be 'just friends.' " ... Don't get no Respect," I fin­He reeked of scotch and cigarets. stght. "But ya know, I'm not as young asThen he began to talk to me. ished. He staggen;d across rh~ "And the hours. Who wants to I used to be. I'm getting on in"I tell ya, boy, I don't get no room and clumsily lurched out of the work from midnight to 11 in theRespect." years. Hundred and thirty-five next open door. morning? The only restaurant open"How's that?" I asked. November. Man, the candles on my For a while, I felt sorry for the poor for my lunch break is Golden Bear. "I don't get no Respect from last birthday cake looked like a guy. "Everywhere he goes he"But I tell ya, it's not just theanybody. Like tonight. Now I know prairie fire. • doesn't get any Respect," I said toy."~rking conditions that get to me -­I'm not the handsomest £11Y in the "Yea, I've bt!en around here :for a myself.lt s my bosses, too. They can't seemworld but when I came in here, the long til}le. I used to moonlight as an . But then I realized why the guy did to make up their minds vhy 1-'tt!guy at the door checking for birth­assistant football coach under Rock­not get t~e respect he had coming. dates on ID's asked to see the working around here. One guy says ne. But I had to give it up. Didn't ND Panetals don'1:-• deserve· n6 · coroner's report on me. I'm protecting other s~dent' s right et much Respect then either. Res ect.  

; 
The Observer Friday, April11, 1980 -page 10 

Firemen from the Clay Township Fire Department have the scene under control in 
"Honor thy wife, 
last night's Campus View blaze. Though the 
and everyone else's." fire was allegedly caused by fireworks, they -_ined to comment. [photos by Tim 
~,hJ 
()f()()ll 
wl§ltlrt" t() ()f? t:()rt§lclt?Jt?cl f()J -[)11!1£11~()-llt?'t t ,f?()J.§ -SIIJ[)f~l Vl4l'll!­
fell I (JI()ciUt:tl()rt §lt()Uicl CI(JIJI'' l() 

tilt? £ultUICIIAJt§ £()rnrnl§_§l()rt 
()II tilt? 11\cl fl()()f ()f lCif()JtUI\t? 
~~ £()rtte~t:t 13111le~wlt?J JjJJ/JJjJ 
MASS follow-ed by


supper 
every_FRIDAY at the 
. I 
Johns-Hopkins prof 
Noted psychiatrist lectures 
-------------~-­
The Observer Friday, April11, 1980 -page 11 


Mideast situation labeled.as ''explosiv~ '' 
New York, a spokesman for withdraw.
METIJLLA, ISRAEL (AP) -keeping Palestinian guerrillas Israeli troops who thrust into from crossing the Lebanese-Is­U.N. Secretary-General Kurt The United States charge 
southern Lebanon patrolled the raeli border_ to attack Jewish Waldheim said "There is some d'affaires in Tel Aviv, William indication of a beginning of a Brown, met with Defense Min­
mountainous border region settlemf:nts as they did Mon­yesterday for possible Palestin­day, killing three Israelis in­withdrawal of the Israeli ister Ezer W eizman seeking 
ian guerrillas-planning raids cluding a young boy.The five forces" but there was no "clarifications"of Israeli inten­into Israel, a U.N. spokesman raiders were also killed. confirmation of this report. tions in Lebanon. No details -of said. In _Metulla, Israeli military U.N. spokesman Rudo1f Stad­the meeting were released. 
juhar gave no details but said
Lebanon requested a U.N. sources who asked not to be Security Council sess10n to identified by name said Israeli his statement was based on a 
report rect>ived from U.N.
discuss the "explosive situa­forces in Lebanon had not headquarters in Naquoura,tion'' caused by the Israeli encountered guerrilla squads 
Hesburgh
presence. or U.N. forces and there had Lebanon. He said the situation Israeli military sourc.es in been no firing. could shift one way or anod1er at ahy time.
Metulla, Israel's northernmost Spokesmen for the U.N. 

to appear 
Lebanese Ambassador Ghas­town, defended the two-day­forces in Lebanon confirmed san Tueni made an oral requestold Israeli incursion as strictly the report. 
. for a Security Council sessiona defensive move aimed at At the United Nations in 

onNBC
during a meeting at U.N. headquarters with this month's Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh council President, Mexican will appear on an NBC-1V Ambassador Porfirio Munoz one-hour special Sunday, deal­Ledo. ~ng with poli~ical responsibility 
Earlier in the day, a spokes­10 an electiOn year. The man for the Lebanese govern­program will be broadcast local­ment in Beirut said it was ·ly on WNDU-1V, Channel 16, 
consultin~ with Waldheim on at 5 r..m. the possibility of holding an· William F. Buckley, Jr. and urgent council meeting on the Abigail McCarthy, both authors ''explosive situation' ' caused and columnists, will join Father 
by the Israeli presence. There Hesburgh in a conversation was no indication when the based on a document called, session would be held. ''Political Responsibility: 
Meanwhile, sources at U.N. Choices for the 1980's," pro­headquarters ·said the United duced by the U.S. Catholic States was urging Israel to Conference. 
byGarryTrudeau 



istaking applcotlonsforotllcer's~111"-" 
fOrthe 1980-81 schoolyear. 
ArtfOn8 nterested,pleasepickuP 
applcationand reflmto 101 0-shag. 

.... 
~ 
will be taken for 
CAPS and GOWNS 
Tuesday April15 
~
and WednesdOyAprl16 RAfwe-­
-~· ....~· 
. 
9:00-4:30 atthe NOTRE DAME 

ALL~ ~"\ 
fj~
c,# 
STUDENTS 
Measurements 

by Don Schmzd StaffReporter 
''The huge demand for psy­chotherapy is due to wide­spread psychological distress and this distress is caused by an accelerated and rapid change in today's society," Dr.]erome D. Frank, a noted psychiatrist fromJohns Hopkins University, commented. 
Frank spoke last night in Haggar Hall on ''Psychothera­py 10 American Society Today" as the sixth part of the ''Per­spectives on Psychology Lec­ture Series.'' The spring lecture series is sponsored by the department of psychology. 
Frank outlined five events which have taken /lace in society which cause part of modern man's duress. The development of the computer, the splitting of the atom, the conquest of outer space, elec­tronic advancements, and gene­tic engineering have all contrib­uted to the maladaptation of today' s institutions according to Frank. 
''Continuity gives meaning to life," Frank stated. Frank believes that contemporary so­ciety lacks such a continuity. 
Frank listed three effects of the acceleration of change. Frank stated that this accelera­tion has undermined virtue such as responsibility, integri-­ty, and committment. 
"Sincerity, as a universal virtue, has replaced these three important virtues. While sin­cerity is an acceptable virtue, it is not enough,'' Frank said.' 
Secondly, this change in the rate of change erodes social order. Finally, Frank noted that this acceleration of change has contributed to the break­down ofthe family unit which is the primary social unit. 
''The family can't perform its primary function of socializing the upcoming generation be­cause it is under such great pressure," Frank stated. 
Frank views psychotherapy as a response to these ill effects. Frank also stated that psychotherapy can perform many ofthe same functions that religion is performing. 
''Psychotherapy is a syste­matic and emotionally charged interaction between the suffer­er and the healer using symbo­lisms,'' Frank said. ''Psycho­therapy helps a person endure suffering and is an opportunity for human growth," he added. 
In ethical considerations, Frank said that an individuated value system may not be pos­sible in contemporary society. 
''The right to the -pursuit of happiness yields a fight to be happy, which is ultimately cau­sing human misery," Frank stated. 
Frank continued, "More em­phasis should be placed on responsibility, self-restraint, and an acceptance of residual suffering." Frank added later that he did not advocate the adoption of any type of fatalistic attitude. 
At one point in the lecture, Frank digressed from the topic of psychotherapy in order to air an important area of concern for himself. Frank views the development of new nuclear weapons as a frightening reality because "man is moments a­way from total annihilation." 
Frank stated that, unlike conventional arms, increased stockpiles of nuclear arms actu­ally decreases national security. He cited the possibility of terrorism, accidents and sabo­tage. 
Frank tied this escalation of conflict to man's primal history of hunting_ groups in which dominance and maleness were valued and promoted. 
The Observer -SportsBoard Friday, April11, 1980 -page 12 
r 
I I 
1.. 
I I I I 
I 
' 
r I I I 
J 
I 
' 
'I 
I I .. I 
\ 

NBA's little guy beatsup 
76ers, 105-93 
ATLANTA (AP) -Tiny Char­lie Cris~, the smallest player in the Nattonal Basketball Associ­ation, scored 11 of his 16 points 10 the final period Thursday ni!Zht to power the Atlanta Ha~ks to a: 105-93 victory over 
Phlladelphta, narrowing the 
76ers' lead in their best-of-se­
ven playoff series to 2-1. 
Game four will be played Sunday in Atlanta. 
The 5-foot-8 Criss and fellow 
guard Eddie ] ohnson sparked 
an 11-2 Atlanta streak late in 
the fourth period to wrap up the 
contest. 
Steve Hawes topped the bal­anced Atlanta attack with 20 points, Johnson added 19 and Wayne "Tree" Rollins had 18. 
] ulius Erving led the 76ers with 26 points and Hollins added 22. 
... Baseball Roun.dup 
[continued from page 19] 
opening-day victory tor the 
Mets, whv also got a pair of 
runs batted in from ] eery 
Morales. 
Swan, who had two hits and a 
walk, drilled his iwo-run single 
off loser Rick Reuschel in the 
sixth inning when New York 
snapped a 1-1 tie with four . 
runs. 
J.R.perfectfor 6V3 
HOUSTON (AP) -] .R. Rich­ard tossed perfect ball through 6 II 3 innings, and Terry Puhl and Jose Cruz each homered to lead the Houston Astros to a 3-2 victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers last night. 
Los Angeles center fielder Rudy Law, who had grounded out on two previous times at bat, ended Richards' bid for a no-hitter in the seventh inning when he singled between first and second. 
Reggie Smith followed with a double and Steve Garvey 
reached on third baseman Enos Cabell's thr~wing error, scoring Law from th1rd. Dusty Baker's sacrifice fly scored Smith with the Dodgers' second run. 
Richard fanned five of the first six batters he faced, nar­rowly missing the major league record of six in a row to start a game. 
Richard was replaced by Joe Sambito to start the ninth. He finished with 13 strikeouts and did not walk a batter in his debut that also marked his 12th consecutive victory over the Dodgers. 
Puhl hit the second pitch of the game by Dodgers starter Burt Hooton over the 360-foot mark in right field for a 1-0 Astros lead. Cruz led off the third with a homer to left and after Art Howe tripled, catche; Alan Ashby singled home Hou­ston's third run. 
Hooton, relieved by Jerry Reuss to start the third, was the loser. 
Gibson shines 
KANSAS CITY (AP) -Rookie 
Kirk Gibson hit a home run and 
a triple, and]ack Morris tossed 
a three-hitter to lead the Detroit 
Tigers past Kansas City 5-llast 
night in the season opener for 
bot~ American League clubs. 
Gtbson, the former Michigan Sta~ football star, smashed a solo homer to tie the score in the f~urth and trilJled off loser Denms Leon~d ~o ignite a three-run upnsmg 10 the sixth. 
The Tigers tagged Leonard, 14-13 last year, for ei~ht hits in seven and one-third mnings in spoiling the managerial debut ofJim Frey. 
Morris, coming off a 17-7 season, ~ve up two' doubles and a single. 
After tripling in the sixth Gibson scored on a ground bali by Steve Kemp, who was safe on an error by first baseman Willie Aikens. A triple by 
"Buy It Once. Enjoy It A Lifetime. 
Recorded Music Is Your Best Entertainment Value:· 
STEREO LPS SERIES 798 
4.99 
PICTURED ITEMS ONLY. 
2-Record Set Specially Priced 
The Clash 
LONDON CALLING 
including: Lost In The Supermarket/The Card Cheat J1mmy Jazz/Spanish Bombs/London Calling 
EPIC 
STEREO LPS SERIES 998 
6.99 
Richie Hebner brought home Kemp and Hebner scored on Jason Thompson's single. 
Brewers bomb Sox 
MILWAUKEE (AP) -Sixto 
Lexcano, who hit a two-run 
homer in the fourth inning, 
smashed a bases-loaded homer 
with two out in the ninth to 
power the Milwaukee Brewers 
to a 9-5 season-opening victory 
over the Boston Red Sox yes­
terday. 
Ben Oglivie, Paul Molitor 
and Don Money added bases­
empty homers for the Brewers. 
With the score tied 5-5 
Molitor singled leading off th~ 
Brewer ninth against Dick 
Drago, the Red Sox's third 
pitcher. After a sacrifice Dick 
Davis fouled out, Oglivi~ was 
intentionally walked and Gor­
man Thomas walked on a 3-2 
pitch. 
The Red Sox tied the game in the top of the ninth on homers by Carl Y astrzemski and Butch Hobson. Mil­waukee's Jim Slaton had re­tired 14 str~ight batters before Y astrzemsk1 led off the ninth with a homer. One out later Hobson connected to tie th~ score 5-5. 
Martin loses debut 
OAKLAND (AP) -Roy Smalley and Rick Sofield h1t solo home runs in the 12th inning to give the Minnesota Twins a season-opening 9-7 victory last night over the Oakland A's and their new manager, Billy Martin. 
Martin was greeted before the game with a two minute standing ovation by the A's biggest home crowd in two years, 24,415. 
Smalley led off the Twins' 12th with a homer to right field off Steve McCarty after going hitless his first five at-bats. Sofield homered with two outs for his thir<l hit of the game. 
In one other late game last night played on the west coast, the San Diego Padres defeated the San Francisco Giants, 6-4. 
Baseball 
Yesterday's Major League Scores 
American League 
Baltimore 5, Chicago 3 
Milwaukee 9, Boston 5 
Detroit 5, Kansas City 1 
Texas 1, New York 0, 12 Innings 
Minnesota 9, Oakland 7, 12 Innings 
National League 
New York 5, Chicago 2 
St. Louis 1, Pittsburgh 0 
Houston 3, Los Angeles 2 
San DieQo 6, San Francisco 4 
Tonight's Games 
American Lea_gue 
Baltimore (Palmer 10-6) at Chicago (Trout 11-8) Boston (Torrez 15-14) at Milwaukee (Sorenson 15-14), (N) Detroit (Schatzeder 10-5) at Kansas City (Leonard 14·13), (N) New York (John 21-10) at Texas (Jenkins 16-14), (N) Cleveland (Splllner 9-5) at California (Frost 16-10), (N) Minnesota (Redfern 7-3) at Oakland (Keough 1-17), (N) Toronto (Steib 8-18) at Seattle (Beat­tie 3-6), (N) National League 
Chicago (.Lamp 10-11) at New York 
(Burris 3-5) 
Atlanta (McWilliams 3-10) at Cincin­
nati (LaCross 14-8), (N) 
Montreal {Rogers 13-12) at Philadel­
phia {Carlton 18-11), (N) 
Los Angeles (Sutcliff 17-10) at Houston 
(Niekro 21-11), (N) 
P!ttsburgh (Candelaria 14-!1) at St. 
LOUIS (Forsch 11-11),,N)
San Francisco (Wh tson 7-'l1) at san • 
Diego (Wise 15-10, (N) .. 

CAP!TOI.. 
STEREO LPS SERIES 898 
DE LITE 

The Ham.mes Notre oOme Bookstore 
--------------~------~ 

The Observer Friday, April11, 1980-page 13 
Emphasize_activities 
SU colllmissioners plan for '80-'81 

by Gary Cuneen 
Before Spring break, "the 1980-1981 Student Union com­missioners were selected, and plans to improve the different divisions of the Student Union are already in the making. 
As is exrected, the most attention wil be focused on the activities sectors, including So­cial, Movie, Concert, and Cul­
tural Arts. The Cultural divi­sion, commissioned by Bill Lawler, is ponderin~ an addi­tional festival, and iS hoping to broaden the selection of writers for future literary festivals. Lawler would also like to attract more professional dance and drama groups, which have been limited, but well-supported en­gagements in the past. In addition, this year's trips to Chicago have been quite suc­
cussful, and similar excursions are being planned. 
The Social Commissioner, Tom Drouillard, has been con­centriuing on revitalizin~ next year's homecoming activities, 
Ford trial Prosecutor Cosen_tin.o : ' 'Noappeals ofrulings ; case closed' ' 
ELKHART, IND. (AP) -The prosecutor in the reckless hom­Icide trial that ended in acquit­tal for the Ford Motor Co. said yesterday he will not appeal rulings in the case. 
Elkhart County Prosecutor Michael Cosentino said an appeal of the questions in the prosecution ''would serve no useful purpose, would be ex­pensive and time-consuming and would therefore not be in the best interest of the citizens of Elkhart County and the state of Indiana.'' 
At Detroit, a Ford statement quoted james F. Neal of Nash­ville, chief trial counsel, as saying, ''I am pleased for everyone's sake that the litiga­tion is over. I think the judge did a fine job in handling the difficult case. " 
Ford was cleared March 10 of char~es of reckless-homicide stemmmg from the deaths of three teen-a~ers in the fiery crash of a Pmto subcompact, and the verdict will stand. Cosentino had said any apyeal would be aimed at clarttying points of law for future cases. 
The trial was the first crim­inal prosecution of a manufac­turer for alleged product de­fects. 
Ford contended its subcom­pact was at least as safe as comparable models and argued that the 1973 Pinto that ex­ploded when it was struck from 
behind  in  the  1978  accident  
had  been  stopped  on  the  
highway  at the time of  
impact.  .  

Cosentino has argued that rulings by Judge Harold R. Staffeldt, who refused to allow evidence not directly related to the 1973 model, prevented him from introducing evidence which might have won convic­tion. Staffeldt's rulings would have been the basis for any appeal. 
Staffeldt could not be reached for comment yester­day. 
Cosentino discussed on Wednesday filing an appeal with deputy prosecutor Terry Shewmaker and two law prof 
essors who assisted the pros­ecution. In a statement yesterday, Cosentino, who could not be 
• reached for further comment, said the "only purpose of a state's appealm this case is to establish precedent for future litigation. 
"The simple truth is, how­ever, that most of the legal points which make this case important were decided prior to trial in the state's favor. Appeal of these issues is therefore unnecessary." 
He said the legal points "established that corporations can be prosecuted for any crime, including homicide, that 
dangers known to the corpora­
tion, that corporations are as criminally accountable for their -actions as any other citizen to 
the people of the state of 
Indiana sitting as a jury." 
Cosentino said the only ef­
feet of an appeal would be to 
establish that evidentiary and 
procedural rulings during the 
10-week trial were incorrect. 
''The case from the very 
beginning has been about cor­
porate responsibility and ace­
ountability directly to the peo­
ple," he said. "Of these cen­
tral issues, the state police and 
the prosecution have been sue­
cessful. An appeal based on 
less legal pomts would only 
corporations can be prosecuted --divert attention from the issues criminally for failing to warn which make this case truly the users of its products of significant. 
Wotnen netterssUJeep host Texans on trip 
One Notre Dame spring sports team was inadvertantly overlooked in Wednesdays' va­cation roundup. 
The Irish women's tennis team began its spring schedule in warm and sunny Texas. ]ory Segal's squad posted impres­sive wins over St. Mary's (4-2) and Trinity's junior varsity (6-6, decided by most sets won) in San Antonio and over Texas Lutheran (5-4) in nearby Se­
, , , Tribute 
(continued from page 20] 
equipment and will be able to have home meets. 
The team has come a long way in the last three years and it has been mainly due to the leadership Qf these four seniors They have our thanks, and as we continue to grow as a team we will miss their assistance and inspiration. 
guin, Tex. The victory a~ainst Trinity _was especially signifi­cant for the Irish, since Trinty's varsity team is a top-ranked Division I power. 
Freshman Linda Hoyer and sophomore Carol Shukis both won all three of their singles matches playing in the number two and four spots, respective­ly. Junior Sheila Cronin also went unbeaten, winniQ.g two matches in _as many outings playing number six singles. 
The Irish women travel to Bloomington, Ind., next week­end for matches with intrastate rivals Indiana, Purdue and Indi­ana State. 
Buy 
Observer 
classifieds 
which will be planned around the weekend of the Michigan game. Drouillard plans to devise a few different activities for that weekend, and will appoint a homecoming chair­man to organize events. Also in the fall, Drouillard is pushing for a concert, and will be working closely with Concert Commissioner Brian Leahy to coordinate the different con­certs and social events. 
Very encouraging for next year's outlook is the increased budget the Student Union has reason to expect. As Rich Coppola, the newly appointed director of the Student Union explained, the Student Union should receive additional allo­cations from different sources next year. 
Coppola hopes to get funds from the HPC, which will not 
SOMrml STORAGE SPACE Special discout for ND IDld SMC students, 
259-0335 
SeU Lock Storage of McKinley 816 East ·McKinley 
require as much money--now that they have been relin­quished pf their hall improve­ment duties. There will be no mo~k c?nvention next year, 
which wlll create an additional $5000 the Student Union hopes to get part of. Also, an increase in the student activities fee is projected, which will aid the Student Union. 
Equally important, however, Coppola emphasizes that he would like to receive student input, and make Student Union activities more accessible to the students. Bill Lawler already plans to cooperate with the Observer to strengthen the publicity aspect. The student mput, though, originates from the student body, so students should not hesitate to submit any ideas regarding activities or any of the sector affiliated with the Student Union. 



..~--------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
!.. 
..... 
' ·~ 
The Observer Friday, April11 , 1980 -page 14 
' 
Bacteria levels in water system exceed acceptable standards 
MUNCIE, Ind. (AP~ -A routine sampling from thts cen­tral Indiana city's water distri­bution system turned up possi­bly harmful bacteria levels, water company officials said yesterday. 
Tests at the Muncie Water Works Co., a private concern, revealed "erratic bacteriologi­cal levels," said water works manager Bmck Earnhardt. He said the bacteria exceed Feder­al Safe Drinking Water Act standards. 
"We have to say boiling of water for drinking might be advisable as a safety precaution while our testing is underway,'' Earnhardt said. 
A priv<:tte laboratory was 81,000. It was estimated com­called in ro assist in the water rany employees, working a­testing an the company began round the . clock, would take what it termed a "massive about 100 hours to complete the expansion'' of their own testing job. program. The federal Environ­"We can't say we can cure it mental Protection Agency also quickly," Earnhardt said, ad­was contacted. ding that boiling drinking water 
The bacteria identified in the was just a suggestion and that sample taken here were not water served at the water works disease-producing in them-would not be boiled. 
selves, Earnhardt said, but they ============= 
are regarded as a form of pollution and an indication that some form of hazardous bac­teria might be in the system. 
Rev.Blantz 
The water works was begin­ning immediately a project to flush the nearly 400 miles of assumes water pipeline in this city of 

(AP) -President Carter rejec­ted Ronald Reagan's criticism of his conduct of foreign policy yesterday as helping the Krem­lin and Iranian terrorists. At the same forum, Sen. Edward 
M. Kennedy accused Carter of actually inviting Reagans elec­tion in November. 
Carter · and Kennedy, his challenger for the Democratic 
,presidential nomination, spoke 
separately from the same plat­
form before the American Soci­
ety of Newspaper Editors, and 
both took the occasion to attack 
their r-olitical opponents. 
After .a speech dominated by foreign policy, Carter told ques­tioners that the Soviet leader­ship and Iranians holding A­mericans hostage in Tehran both would a~ree with Reagan that the Umted States was responsible for the Afghanistan and Iranian crises. Those arguments, Carter said, "can only help them.'' 
The president denied any lack of resolve or deetermina­tion to resist Soviet aggression that might have been perceived as a sign of weak U.S. leader­ship. And he dismissed sug­gestions he had manipulated announcements of develop­ments in Iran and the Middle East to try to influence primary election results in his favor. 
Following Carter to the ros­trum about four hours later, Kennedy took aim at both Democratic and Republican front-runners. ''The Republi­cans cannot lead by summoning the nation backwards -and the Democratic Party cannot suc­ceed by trying to out-Republi,­can the Republicans," he said. 
Kennedy said Carter was running for re-election in a way that invites Reagan's election by promoting the idea that government doesn't-work, and that no president "can do the job." This argument, the senator said, might persuade 
'PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
JOS IMTERVIE\IS ARE OPEN TO SENIORS AND GRAOOATE STUDENTS lN TH! MAl AND AUGUST CLASSES.,., •••• 1ANY WHO INTEND TO HAVE INTERVIEWS MUST HAVE A COMPLETED PROFILE (REGISTRATION) ON FILE AT THE PLAC~ BUREAU ••••••••• REGISTRATION, INTERVIEW SIGN-UP SHEETS AND EMPLOYER LITERATURE ARE IN ROOM 213, AI11INISTRATION BLDG. 
COMPLETE EMPLOYER SPECIFICATIONS ON DEGREES, JOB TITLES, LOCATIONS AND CITIZENSHIP ARE GIVEN IN nt! PLACEMINT KAHUAL, EXCEPT FOR THOSE EMPLOYERS ADDED SINCE TilE PRINTING OF mE MANUAL, 
THE SIGN-UP PERIOD IS FROM 8:00A.M. TO S:OO P.H., TUESDAY niROUGH FRIDAY~ BEGINNING APRIL 8 FOR INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED fOR THE o/Efl< OF APRIL 14. 
PLEASE NOTE INTERVIEW LOCATIONS AT TIME OP SIGN-UP. 
PLEASE POST YOU MUST SIGN FOR YOUR INTERVIEWS PERSONALLY. Fot S1udents and FIICUtty 
DATI 
AI. 
BA 
110 
BC L11 
-
April 14 
Mon. 
Sargent Welch Scientific COfllpany Manufacturer and Distributer of Scientific Equiprunt. BH ·in EE, ME. For: Electrical or Mechanical Deaign positions. Location: Skokie, It. Perm. Rea. Vi.. required. 
South lend Lathe Company Machine Tool Manufacturer. BH in EE. For: Import Line Designer. Location: South Bend, IN. Citizenship required. 
April lJ Tuu. 
X 
X 
Loonam Aaaoc:iatea Dhtributor of Computer Terminate. 8 in Lib. Arta and Bus. Ad. For: Markt>ting, Sales Hanagemf'nt Training Program. location: Initially in Minneapolis, MN. Must be ..,Ulina to relocate -positions nationwide Penn. Ru. Viaa required. 
April 15/16 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
ACTION, Peace Corpa,HSTA BH in all disciplines. JD. 
Prudential Insurance Company 8 in Lib. Arts for Inaurancr Salc-s tn S,outh Rl•nd ~JIJ.x• 
m!-1__!_!> 
Dallas Independent Schoo! District 
Wed. 
SH in 11~1 teaching fi"lch~. 
X 
X 
liT Re&t'arch Inatituu BM In ME, ChE, HPt. EE, Ct., MEIO, Clwm. 
X
X X IX 
I

~1_8 
Fri. I 
!-/~_t::_l ~~~-··...f!..~.!_J_~_.___1u_!ly.f~~ l_n_TJ:..E.[ ~l\:.!.l.t'.'!11. _~:l•ty_r_r
I 
IX I 
LlWr. and C:nrclen TractttTfol. BIn An:t fur f.in/,\r·.:
I 
1\nnl)·•n; 8 tn Mkt fltT Mkt An.d"'~'U: B 111 ~Htl lt•r 1 -r 
I I 
T'rch:L'Sl'f/Tlmt• and Hotlnt1. l.(";trion: Snull1 11.-nd, ~~~­! . 
I : l'l'T'"· I<L•I.. \"l~ll Tr>rJUIIo·cl. 
Carter rejects criticism offoreignpolicy 
voters to turn to a Republican candidate ''who promises to do as little, but lower at lower cost.'' 
In his speech, Carter defen­ded his handling of the Iranian and Afghanistan crises and promised to take legal action, if necessary, to enforce an Ameri­can boycott of the Moscow Summer Olympics. 
It was only the third time this election year that the two ·major contenders for the Democratic presidential nomination had spoken before the same audi­ence. Kennedy has repeatedly challenged Carter to abandon his stay-at-home policy and join him in debating the issues. 
Notedjurists participate 
in weekend 
Two noted black jurists will 
participate in the annual alumni 
weekend of the Black American 
law Students Association 
(BALSA) at the University this 
weekend. 
Judges Geor~e N. Leighton o( the U.S. Dtstrict Court in Chicago, a Notre Dame trustee, and Edward F. Bell of Michi­gan's Third judicial District, former president of the Na­tional Bar Association, will participate in the weekend acti­vities. 
Weekend activities will open today at noon with a "brown bag'' luncheon in the law School. The annual alumni vs students basketball game will be at 10 a.m. Saturday. A convocation at 10 a.m. Sunday in the Morris Inn will feature a discussion oflocal, regional and national goals, as well as an introduction of new officers. 
The Observer Friday, Aprilll, 1980 -page 15 

Latin nations 
agree to become haven for refugees 
Tryouts 
begin 
next week 
Varsity baseball tryouts will be held Monday through Thurs­day at 4:45 p.m. at the Jake Khne varsity baseball field. Interested participants should report to Coach Lentych. 
Localgroup sponsors conference 
Plans are in progress for a Citizens' Conference on Ener­gy, Environment and Economy to be held tomorrow from 10 
a.m. to 4 p.m., at the Public Library Schuyler Colfax Audi­torium, with participation by a number of invited groups and individuals and the public at large. 
The Bailly Downwind Alli­ance, a local group devoted to preventing construction of the proposed nuclear power plant adjacent to a steel plant and a park in Burns Harbor east of Gary, is sponsoring the con­ference. The purpose of the conference is to search for ways that citizens can unite to make favorable changes by their combined pressure on public officials and technicians, locally and nationally. 
Among the workshops will be 
(1) energy--A Business or a Human Need?, (2) Environ­mental Pollution--Dangers and Opportunities, (3) Bailly and Nuclear Plants--The Facts, (4) alternative Sources of Energy-­Solar, etc., (5) The Environ­ment' and Our Neighborhoods: What Can Be Done?, (6) Ener­gy and the Economy: Who's Footing the Bill?, (7) Possible Actions Toward a People's Energy Program, (8) Labor, Minonties and Energy. 
Indiana State sponsors 
tournament 
The Indiana State Speed Chess Championship will spo~­sor a tournament tomorrow 10 LaFortune. Round-robin preli­minary sections ~egin . at ~ 1 
a.m. 
Students may regtster 10 LaFortune between 10 and 11 

a.m. 
tomorrow. Entry fee is $2.50. 


,. 
UMA, Peru (AP) -Five council said Cuba was responsi­aged to reach Lima. · in retaliation for what the South American countries ag­ble for what had happened, but The Peruvian Foreign Mini­Cuban Foreign Ministry said reed yesterday to take in some that it was the obligation of the stry said the embassy in Hava­was Peruvian en~uragement of of the thousands of Cubans who rest of the world to help the na had registered the names exiles who had forced their way flocked into the Peruvian em­refugees. and backgrounds of 6,300 tefu-past Cuban police to enter the bassy in Havana seeking help to Pareja is president of the gees as of Wednesday. · embassy. A Cuban ~ard was leave the country. council -political arm of the Pareja said "internation;U a­killed April 1 when svc persons
"It can't be done in five Andean Group common market gencies'' had offered to provide in a bus crashed through the minutes, but we are trying to do of Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, airplanes and personnel for the ~o~pound gate seeking asylum it as quicky and efficiendy as Peru and Venezuela. evacuation. ' 10s1de. possible," Ecuador's Foreign Garcia confirmed that offers Speaking to reporters at Lima The Cuban government has Minister Alfredo Pareja said had been received from nations airport before returning to Qui­called the throng at the embas­after an overnight emergency outside the Andean region, to, Pareja said Peru would not sy "vagrants and bums" and meeting of the Andean Council. although he would not identify necessarily be the first country said they could emigrate. But it 
Peruvian Foreign Minister them. to receive refugees, although has restored the guard at the Arturo Garcia Y Garcia said In Washington, President Garcia had been appointed embassy.Peru was ready to receive 1,000 Carter has expressed sympathy coordinator of the operation. A spokesman for the U.S. persons. He said he could not for the Cubans' desire to flee An estimated 10,000 Cuban interest section at the Swiss 
comment on how many the Fidel Castro's communist re­refugees iammed the Petiuvian Embassy in Havana said Cuban other council members or other gime, but made no commitment compound in Havana after the authorittes were supplying food countries would take. to accept refugees. State government withdrew its :se­and saintary facilltles at the "Each country will make its Department officials did say curity force from around the Peruvian compound and had own announcement,'' he said. they would consider applica­diplomatic headquarters. · allowed the Red Cross to set up In a joint statement the tions from refugees who man-The Cuban action was 1tak~n a field clinic. 
Acareer ii1 laW-~ without law school. 
After just three months of study at The lf1stitute for Paralegal Training in exciting Philadelphia, you can have a stimulating and rewarding career in law or business­without law school. 1 
·;' 
As a lawyer's assistant you will be performing many of the duties traditionally handled only by attorneys. And at The Institute for Paralegal Training, you can pick one of seven different areas of law to study. Upon completion of your training, The ln.stitute's unique Placement Service will find you a responsible and challenging job in a law firm, bank or corporation in the city of your choice. 
The Institute for Paralegal Training is the nation's first and most respected school for paralegal training. Since 1970, we've placed over 3,000 graduates in over 85 cities nationwide. · 
If you're a senior of high academic standing and looking for an above average career, contact your Placement Office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on: 
MONDAY, APRIL 14 AC-0035 
The 
Institute 235 South 17th Street Philadelphia, PA 19103
for 
(215) 732-6600
ParalegalTraining® 
operated by Para-legal, Inc. 
Approved by the American Bar Association. 
-'"! .................._ ..............~~-...... ~.....'\.....-.s..........:. .. -.. ~ .......~..-. ....... -.. ""' ............. .
-···;.~A.­

------------------------------------~~-------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Friday, April11, 1980-page 16 Sen. Bayh proposes military action .ifhostages are harmed 

INDIANAPOUS (AP) -Mili­tary action should be taken to free che American hostages in Iran if the militants holding them prisoner start to kill or torture them, Sen. Birch Bayh said yesterday. 
''The only time it would be prudent to take military action would be if the militants were in the process of killing the hos­tages or torturing the hostages. At tha[ -s!age of the game, we'd have a responsibility to go in there, and get those people out," the Indiana Democrat said at a news conference. 
A Forum on International Business was conducted last night Bayh said there are steps 
in (l 'Shag b'}' Mr. Robert Brady. short of military action the nation can take to free the hostage~, now in their 160th day of captivity, if President Carter's break-off of diplomatic
r------------------1
1 BRING IN THIS COUPON AND SAVE I relations and trade embrago do· not work. ''The next step, it seems to
:flll'fJ Super Savings I : me, is to say no more food or medicine," said Bayh, chair­man of the Senate Intelligence Committee. "I have no com­punctions about that.'' . Bayh said if that step is
i S200FF i· unsuccessful, the nation should try a naval blockade, first of goods going into Iran, and then goods, including oil, being ex­ported. Bayh said the United States
!GLASSES! 
also should increase pressure 
I~ I
ici)B-Qy :Rev. Richard McBrien assumes 
I
I For a limited time only, bring in this coupon and I I get $20 off any purchase of glasses. One coupon 1 1 per customer. Present coupon at time glasses are I 1 ordered. No other discounts applicable during I term of this offer. I 
: Use your Wanls Charg-AII-o•uw "'"""'" : 
1
I Quality, Value, Selection. ~~ I ~I1 
I Scottsdale Mall291-7910 1 
L------------------~ 
THE WHO! 
in concert! Saturday May 3 . 8:00pm C.D.T. International Amphitheatre Chicago, Illinois 
good seats now on sale at River City Records 50970 U.S. 31 North 277-4242 
J. Geils Band This Friday April 11 Aragon Ballroom· Chicago tickets at River City Records 
Fleetwood Mac special guest Christopher Crass Thursday May 15 Rosemont Horizon Rosemont, Illinois tickets at River City Records Bob Seger-The Silver Bullet Band Thursday May 22 · Rosemont Horizon Rosemont ,Illinois tickets at River City Records 
. 
neu;ly established theology chair 
Rev. Richard P. McBrien, professor of theology at Boston College and director of its Institute ofReligious Education and Pastoral Ministry, has been appointed chairman of the De~artment of Theology at the Umversity of Notre Dame; 
it  was  announced  today  by  
Prof.  Timothy  O'Meara,  
provost.  

Father McBrien will occupy the newly established Crowley­O'Brien-Walter Chair in Theo­logy, O'Meara said. A former president of the Catholic Theo­logical Society of America (CTSA), Father McBrien suc­ceeds as chairman Rev. David 
B. Burrell, C.S.C., who is finishing his third three-year term. O'Meara noted the significa.i,.t academic progress made by the department under Father Burrell's leadership and said the former cha1rman would be on leave next year doing resean;:h as director of Notre Dame's Ecumenical Instirute at Tantur, Israel. 
Father McBrien was ordained for the Archdiocese of Hartford, Conn., in 1962 and obtained his doctorate in theo­logy from The Gregorian Uni­versity in Rome. He taught at several Catholic colleges and universities and served as pro­fessor of theology and dean of studies at the Pope John XXIII National Seminary, Weston, Mass. 
The author of a weekly column on religious matters since 1966, he has written 12 books, the most recent of which, Catholicism, was pub­lished this spring. Among those praising the book in pre-publication comment was Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, who called it "compre­hensive and conciliatory'' in its treatment of the contemporary Church. Commenting today on the author's appointment in Theology, Notre Dame's presi­dent said, "We are fortunate to have attracted a scholar of Father McBrien's stature to lead a department of such importance at the University." 
In 1976, Father McBrien received the CTSA's John Courtney tyiurray Award, the citation for which noted that no theologian had done more "to clarify for American Catholics 

the ecclesiological import of 
Vatican II." He was co-anchor 
with Harry Reasoner for CBS­
tv's coverage of the papal 
elections of John Paul I and 
John Paul II as well as the 
latter's visit to the United 
States. 
Father McBrien has two 
brothers, one also a priest of 
the Harrford archdiocese, two 
sisters, and a widowed mother 
who is a retired nurse. 
The chair in theology he will occupy is endowed by gifts from Jerome J. Crowley and his wife, Rosaleen, of South Bend; the O'Brien Corporation, of which Crowley is chairman, and the estates of M. Emmet Walter and his wife, Alfreda, of Houston, Texas. 
Crowley is a 1931 graduate of Notre Dame who for many years was the president of the O'Brien Corporation, a South Bend manufacturer of nation­ally distributed paints and coatings. He is a trustee of the University whose benefactions included a seed money fund which for many years stimu­lated research 10 the humani­ties and social sciences at Notre Dame. 
Mr. Walter, a former editor of the Houston Chronicle, died in 1966 and his wife in 1975.He entered Notre Dame in 1911 and earned bachelor's, mas­ter's, and law degrees during his five years on campus. He joined the Houston Post's edi­torial staff in 1919 and after moving over to the Chronicle in 1922 rose quickly through the executive ranks of the news­paper to become a confidante ofJesse H. Jones, its owner. 
'the Crowley-O'Brien-Walter Chair is the second endowed professorship in the Depart­ment of Theology. The Huisking Chair is occupied by Rev. Enda McDonagh, an Irish moral. theologian. 
·;r ...... 7 
•• ,,. 
11
l . : \ I· 
on its allies to cooperate in industry and American auto 
economic sanctions against makers do not have the same 
Iran. right to export cars to Japan. 
''I'm prepared to fight fire "Last year, the Japanese with fire. If they won't help us automakers took up an approxi­put the screws on Iran, I'll put mate 17 percent share of the the screws on them," Bayh U.S. market. What we're said. talking about here is not more 
He reiterated his intention to Toyotas or Datsuns on the introduce legislation to allow highway, but a loss of American the imposition of im~ort tariffs jobs." on products from nations which decline to go alo~.5 with the sanctions, a move which would 
hamper the sale of those pro­Osseo choir 
ducts in the United States 
because of the increased price. 
Bayh also said some retalia­
presents
tion must be taken against Iran once the hostages are free to make it clear to the world that the United States will not 
concert 
tolerate its diplomats being 
held hostage. But he declined to spell out what the retaliation The A Capella Choir of Osseo might be. High School will be presented 
''The more we talk about by the Music Department in a that, the less likely they are to concert at 3:30p.m. Sunday in let the hostages go," he said. Sacred Heart Church. 
In other matters at his news The choir, under the direc­conference, Bayh announced tion of John D. Hansen, has he has written to Japanese presented concerts in Minneso­Prime Minister Masayoshi ta, Wisconsin, Indiana, Illinois, Ohira, ursing him to encourgae · Iowa, Missouri, Nebraska, Co­the location of Japanese car lorado and Canada. Recent manufacturing plants in the concerts have been presented • United States. in St. Michael's Cathedral, 
Bayh said Japanese imports Chicago, and the Air Force are hurting the American auto Academy in Colorado. 

Friday, Aprilll , 1980-page. 17
The Observer 
Sabin. vaccin.e eases administration. butproves to be less effective 
LA JOLLA, Calif. (AP) ­Polio. The word once conveyed the same hopeless terror that cancer does today. 
Every summer for years the polio virus raced about the country, leaving behind shri­veled arms and legs, shiny steel braces and the metal cylinders called iron lungs. Most of its victims were children. 
The annual terror was lifted 2 5 years ago. 
In Ann Arbor, Mich., on April 12, 1955, results of a nationwide test of a vaccine against polio were revealed: 
' "The vaccine works. " That spring, youngsters lined up in schools and clinics, even on street corners, for the vacci­nation shots that marked the beginning of the end of polio as a major health threat. Within seven years, the inci­dence of all types of polio had fallen 97 percent from a 1950-54 average of 38,727 cases a year. The world was lavish in its praise and gratitude for the 40-year-old scientist-doctor who was credited with the conquest. Dr. Jonas Edward Salk, then of the University of Pittsburgh, was toasted by presidents and kings. A generation of parents still calls him a saint. Newsweek called his work "probably the most important medical story of the century.'' Ltfe magazine said: "a hero's Discovery is Put to Work... A Nadon Thanks Dr.]onas Salk." 
Demands and requests poured in after the announce­ment in Ann Arbor, Salk recal­led in a recent interview at his beloved Salk Institute for Bio­logical Studies near San Diego. ''The public relations chap from Pittsburgh lost his voice in those few days," he said. 
''There was suddenly a re­lease from this great fear -the dread that occurred each sum­mer," he continued. "People had prayed for it and they saw it in the realm of the miraculous. From my poiot of view, it was an exaggeration ofwhat we did. 
I dido' t take it seriously." 
Salk, his gray hair curling at his shirt collar, looked back across the years: "I simply built upon the contributions of others and added my own. In a way, I was in the right place at the right time and I had the capacity to pull it all together. 
"But," he added, "It re­quired an enormous amount of courage -faith if you like ­based upon a conviction. And my convictions were based upon very solid experimental data.'' 
The research was funded by the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis. The foun­dation, probably the only such organization ever to conquer its disease, found a new-target in birth defects and is now called the ''March of Dimes -Birth Defects Foundation." 
Not all the world saw Salk as a hero. 
''I felt immediately the re­sentment and bitterness on the part of many of my collea­gues," he said. 
Salk said some objected to the -media event the 1955 announcement became and ''felt I had received from the public an undue amount of credit." 
Others, he said, resented his having challenged a medical dogma -the belief that only a weakened but living virus could be an effective, long-lasting vaccine against a disease such as polio. 
The Salk vacdne is made of polio virus killed under precise conditions. "We destroyed irs capacity to multiply (and attack the body) without destroying its ability to immunize," Salk said. 
But when a live-virus polio vaccine developed by Dr. Al­bert Sabin was licensed in 1962, it quickly replaced Salk vaccine in the United States. A new national campaign was launched and children were given the new vaccine, not with a needle but in a su~ar cube. 
"I had no objection to the introduction of another way to immunize," Salk said. "What I objected to was the way in which it was promoted, as if it was necessary to change.'' · When the Sabin vaccine was introduced, polio already was on its way out in the United States. By 1956, the number of paralytic cases had dropped to 7,9J 1. The next year it was less than 2,500. By 1961, only 988 cases were reported. 
Now, said Dr. Marjorie Pol­lack of the Center for Disease Control in Atlanta, "We are bouncing between 10 and 20 cases a year. " 
Researchers agree that more than half the current U.S. cases are caused by the live-virus vaccine, which is designed to induce a very mild polio infec­tion. About once in several million vaccinations, the im­munized child or someone he or she contacts comes down with 
• 
[continued from page 1) 
polio. There is still no cure. 
Salk cited these cases and 
said, "Some regard that as a 
significant problem -primarily 
the victims. And some regard it 
as a trivial problem. The price 
we have to pay for the vaccine. 
But some of us have raised the 
question of whether we have to 
pay any price for the eradica­
tion of polio." 
No cases of paralytic polio are 
blamed on the Salk vaccine, 
which is no longer produced in 
this country'. although small 
amounts are Imported. 
Salk returned to polio' re­
search a few years ago, trying 
to improve his vaccine, defen­
ding Its performance and repor­
ting its impact in countries such 
as Sweden, Finland and the 
Netherlands where it is used 
exclusively. 
New polio cases turn up 
periodically around the world , and they are appearing by the 
thousands in develping coun­
tries. 
''There is... satisfaction that 
a solid piece of work had been 
done," Salk said. "But I know 
it is possible this piece of work 
is carried to its logical conclu­
sion, I will feel not quite 
satisfied -not quite fulfilled. 
''There is a way of elimina­
ting the disease -of avoiding 
the occasional vaccine-associa­
ted cases. A method exists. 
Why have we not gone all the 
way .. I" 
Applications for Senior Advisory Council --pickup on Mon., April14 and Tues., April15 in the Sjudent Activities Office in LaFortune --•dueThurs., Fri. 
HEALTH PROFESSIONALS 
A~k n I'Pan• ( 'nrp~ "''ltntli'Pr nur:-.p nt 11lt\nlt"'li';l \d., :·.lw It .tdH·:-. hasie hPalth !'ill'<' to rural vdla;:t•rs i11 1•:1 'Sah·;ulnr ,\,I;,, VISTA <'<11111111111111' workPr why ht• org_nniZt's tu•tghl~~•r=--111 .~1 l.•·t11:-. I•• .... ,., •:p a ht·t· IH'alth 
dinit·. Tllt'y'll prohahlv sm· tht·v w:1111 '" lu·lp 1"""1'1•·. "'""' '" ""' rlu·ir skills, h~· involvc.•d in son:d d.tlfll~t·. ld.1vl11· lt•;u 11 :1 Ill'\\ laug111q:•· or 
('XJIPI'it•Jit'P IIIlO IIll'I' !'1111111'1'. :\sk 1111'111. 
Rvgislvr now at l'l:tt"t'lll('tli 
orrin· rnr illlt•rvit•ws: April F> & lb. 


ICEIAM)AJR 10 EUROPE­
BIG BIRD
.UD.t 
LOW FARE 
No restrictions 
C11Hfirrned fC\CfVatiUll'l • free Wine With diiiiU:f, U1g11at .OJ her • no rc"ttrit.:tiun\ on \tay., to 1yr. •H advam..:c pun.ha"lc. Pnc..c' valul fr"m I'.S. from .\1ar~h IO.rhru .\1ay 14, J'JIIIJ. All ,~heduJe, ar11l pri~t\ whjc:u trJ ~hange aucl guverumcnr "1'1"''""1. l'uu:lia\t 
ri~ker' in rhc: I· .S. 
~-------------------­
Sec your travel agent or wrirc IJcpr. If( '\ l kclundair 1'.0, Box HIS, I \\'c,l llemp,rcad, ,y IIS'i2. I Call in .'\:YC, 7'i7-HSH'i; cl,cwl!erc, ~all HIXJ-'i'i'i 1212 for rl!e I toll-free number in yuur area, I'Ica,c 'end me: '~An kelandair fllghr rimcrahk. I 
··;Your European Va~auuo' hrot:liurc. 1 
'amc____ ------_______ --· ___ I 
Addrc" ---------------------... ---------I Ciry _____ 
----· ---I 
Srarc ________ Zip_________ ------I 
I I I 

Huuruhrip from 
:\ew y,,k to l.uxc:mlm11rg 

-----------------~---~~~ -­
"'' 
The Observer -SportsBoard Friday, Apri111, 1980-page 18 
Molarity by Michael Molinelli Golf 


Pigeons 

The Daily Crossword 

· 
All Rights Resar ted 
I TEAcH AND 
COMHJAitCAT£ WITH Yolllle MNM TO UELP sn~LA,Tf: 11-IE/R CREATWE AIJILJTie5 

• 

by Jun McOure/Pat Byrnes 

ACROSS -29  Jar top  
1 Stand for  32  Lace edging  
a cup  33  Mend socks  
5  Precedes  34  Window unit  
10  Seafood  35  In action  
14  Of a period  38  Willow  
15  LDft  genus  
16  Pompeii's  39  Vientiane's  
ruin  land  
17  Honest  40  Stood well  
person  41  Hallucino  
20  Lao­ genic  
21  Midday  letters  
22  Toward  42  City on  
the sky  the Aar  
23  Foofaraws  43  SylVan  
24  Hymn-ender  deities  
25  Dzhugash­ 44  Square­ 
vili  comered.  
28  Roughage  45  Theorbo's  
source  cousin  

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 



46 Soluble 23 Oahu 
salt greeting 49 Summertime 24 V-shaped 50 Weep gutter 53 Short dis­25 Taint 
tance from 26 Variations 
the target of color 56 Grit 27 Went 57 Immense onstage 58 Part to 28 Blueblood 
play 29 The masses 59 Jittery 30 Ear or city 60 Ruhr city 31 Exploits 61 Eared 33 Personal 
vessel record 34 Horne base 
DOWN ~ Pliant 1 Piquancy 37 Kitchen 2 College gadget 
course 42 Depart 3 Seldom seen suddenly 4 Neighbor 43 Submerged 
of Ala 44 Bat to and 5 Atoll fro feature 45 Fencing 6 Moral move 
.1ature 4e Church 7 Memo abbr. feature 8 Prefix with 47 Burden 
cover and 48 Ruler hearten 49 Shakes up 9 German 50 Weather 
composer word 10 Funnyman 51 Give the 11 Pro-eye to 12 Say is so 52 Tavern 13 Poet-singer order 18 Pen 54 -Vegas 19 Accessible 55 Exist 
~ 
.Ne'
(J~~ ~e 
AUGUSTA, Ga ..(AP) · First-round scores Thursday in the 44th Masters tournament on the 7,040-yard, par 
36·36·72 Augusta  National  Golf Club  
course  
Jeff Mitchell  33·33·66  
David Graham  33·33·66  
Seve Ballesteros  33-33·66  
Jack Newton  32·36·68  
Hubert Green  34-34·68  
Tom Kite  34·35-69  
Larry Nelson Gibby Bilbert Andy North Artie McNickle  34·35-69 34-36·70 35·35·70 35-35·70  
Ed Sneed  34·36·70  
Lou Graham  37·34-71  
Ed Flori  35-36·71  
Gary Player Doug Tewell Graham Marsh  37·34·71 34·37·71 34·37-71  
Jay Sigel  35·36·71  

Basketball 
national basketball association playoffs 
Best·of·Seven Eastern Conference Semifinals 
Last Night's Game 
Atlanta 105, Philadelphia 93 (Phlladel· phla leads series, 2-1). 
Tonight's Game 
Houston at Boston (Boston leads series, 1-0). 
Sunday's Games 
Boston at Houston Philadelphia at Atlanta 
Western Conference Semifinals 
Tonight's Games 
Seattle at Milwaukee (series tied, H). Los Angeles at Phoenix (Los Angeles leads series, 2·0). 
Sunday's Games 
Seattle at Milwaukee ~os Angeles at Phoenix 
Hockey 
(} 
Last Night's Game 
Boston 4, Pittsburgh 1 (series tied, H). Tonight's Games 
Montreal at Hartford (Montreal leads series, 2·0). Minnesota at Toronto (Minnesota leads series, 2-p). New York Rangers at Atlanta (Rangers lead series, 2-0). Chicago at St. Louts (Chicago leads series, 2·0). Philadelphia at Edmonton (Philadel· phia leads series, 2-0). Buffalo at Vancouver (Buffalo leads series. 2·0). . New York Islanders at Los Angeles (series tied, H). 
Saturday's Games 
Boston at Pittsburgh New York Islanders at Los Angeles 
If Necessary Montreal at Hartford Minnesota at Toronto New York Rangers at Atlanta Chicago at St. Louis Philadelphia at Edmonton Buffalo at Vancouver; Sunday, April 13 Boston at Pittsburgh 
Sunday's Game Boston at Pittsburgh 
277-4522 
Pinocchio's Pizza Parlor-
Georgetown Shopping Center announcing 
TUESDAY NIGHT 
is 
LADIES NIGHT! 
1 -s:l1 6-10 pm all drinks lh price f$1-1 
I ~---------r----------l I
l off any large pizza l off any small pizza l 
1 r 
I -only one coupon per pi~. please I 
I -I I -coupons expire apri130 I 
I I 
·----------------------~-----­
SPOTUGHT PSYCHOLOGY--13 fast-paced and exciting quarter-hour features of useful and interesting information which every individual should have. 
Ti1is series is a ''first'' in its effort to enhance public awareness of recent developments in the science :1;1d practice of psyLhology and of potential impact of research findings on the daiiy lives pf us :JII. This weeh's topic is: 
FROM LABOR TO LABOR: WORKING FAMILIES­considers · · !3 dilemmas ofworking mothers andfocuses on the com ·nents ofgoodday care and the controversy 
over its effects onparent-child relationships. 
.Be sure to listen to WSND Sunday evening at Midnight or Tuesday evening at 11:45 pm. 
.c:k_OO-·--­
.-------------------------------------------------------~--------~-------------~------------------------------------------~~n1~ I 2'' \_ 
The Observer Friday, Apri111, 1980 -page 19 
Opening Day Roundup----~ 
and bring on Gossage. second inning to give the St. Murray doubleo to left twoYanks fall in 12th Starting pitchers]on Matlack Louis Cardinals a 1-0 victory O'sdumpChisox runs. Singleton scored on a of the Rangers and Ron Guidry over the Pittsburgh Pirates in CHICAGO (AP) -Eddie balk by Trout and Murray came 
ARUNGTON, Texas (AP) -of the Yankees dueled brilliant­their season opener yesterday. Murray's two-run double keyed in on_. an infield out by DougNew York reliever Rich Gos-_ ly for nine innings before Bonds drew a walk with one in a four-run first inning yesterday DeCmces. sage uncorked a wild pitch with turning the game over to reliev­the second and <;arne around to 
that carried Jim Palmer and the The Orioles added a run in 
the bases loaded and one out in ers in the opener attended by score on Hendrick's double Baltimore Orioles to a 5-3 the second on a triple by Rick the bottom of the 12th inning 33,196. over third base. victory over the Chicago White Dempsey and a sacrifice by
last night, scoring Mickey Ri­Matlack yielded only three Vuckovich faced only 16 Pi­Sox in their season opener. Bumbry. vers and giving the Texas hits in nine innings and retired rates before Phil Garner singled Palmer, an eight-time 20-Palmer had a four-hit shutout Rangers a 1-0 victory over the the last 18 hitters he faced in a with one out in the sixth. He game winner, posted his 226th going into the seventh before Yankees in their American Lea­row before giving way to Jim also gave up a one-out single to career triumph and fifth in six Chicago scored a pair ofruns on 
gue baseball opener. Kern in the lOth. Matlack, who Bill Madlock in the eighth and a opening day assignments, with a two-out single by Alan Ban­
Gossage's first pitch in relief struck out five and walked pinch-single to Lee Lacy to start relief help from Tim Stoddard. nister and a throwing error byofTomTJnderwood hit in front of none, retired 2) of the last 26 the ninth. Palmer worked seven innin~s, Dempsey. The White Sox the plate with Richie Zisk at bat batters he faced. Vuckovich struck out nine, allowing two runs on six hns, added a run in the eighth off 
and catcher Rick Cerone never Guidry allowed only two sin­including three in the ninth, striking out four and walking Stoddard on an error by Orioles had a chance as the ball skipped gles, worked nine innings and and walked two in posting his four. second baseman Rich Dauer. to the backstop. Rivers scored retired the last 12 batters in a fourth career shutout. 
White Sox starter Steve Trout 
standing up from third without row and 20 of the last 21. He Bert Blyleven, who hurled was the loser in the game Mets take openera throw. struck out four and permitted the first five innings for the 
played in 40-degree weather 
Rivers led off the Ranser no walks before he was relieved Pirates, was the loser. St. Louis 'under cloudy skies. NEW YORK (AP) , Craig
12th with a hard shot whtch by Underwood in the bottom of managed just three hits off AI Bumbry opened the game Swan scattered seven hits over handcuffed Yankee third base­the lOth. Blyleven and reliever Enrique with a looping double to left. seven innings l'.nd drove in two man Graig Nettles, who threw Romo. Mark Belanger followed with a runs with a bases-loaded sin­the ball away. Rivers was safe Cards nip Bucs, 1-0 Former St. Louis star Lou sacrifice bunt but was safe at gle, leading the New York Mets 
at second on the hit and error. Brock, who retired following first when Lamar ] ohnson to a 5-2 victory over the Chicago Bump Wills sacrificed Rivers to ST. LOUIS (AP) -Pete last season, threw out the first dropped Trout's throw for an Cubs yesterday.third and Yankee Manager Dick Vuckovich pitched a three-hit­ball before a crowd of 43,867, error. It was the sixth straightHowser elected to intentionally ter and George Hendrick doub­the Cards' largest for a home After Ken Singleton was hit 
[continued on page 12J
walk AI Oliver and Buddy Bell led home Bobby Bonds in the opener in 10 years. by a pitch to load the bases, 
All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classifieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail.
Classifieds 
ANDERSON VOLUNTEERS Who's Got The B.H.O.C.? Woolhead Everybody-­Need ride to Miami of Ohio April
Notices Important organizational meeting The Reno Album lending service Is
18-will share usual. Ride to Dayton. 
Columbus, Cincy, or area -new volunteers welcome Watch out D.C. (especially Uncle getting uptight. Whether youRichmond Sunday -havt 
8:00p.m. Collins) ... SUZIE BERNARD is simply forgotten or are you deviously
would help. Call 4-1-5710 -LaFcrtune little Theatre 
Mar-Main Pharmacy at 426 N. coming!!! taking advantage of my good nature, Mlchlgan cashes personal checks for OVERSEAS JOBS--Summer/year Applications for '80-81' Nazz Director please remember to return my Doors students with an ND/SMC 1.0. and business manager are available In Cindy and Janet to B-52's, Greatest Hits album before summer,
round. Europe, S. America, Australia, 
Asia, etc. All fields, $500-$1,200 the Student Union office. Due Friday, Amaretto mornings Pina Colada or your death happens first! 
STUDENTS-LEARN WHILE YOU monthly. Expenses paid. Sightsee­Aprll19. afternoons SR evenings and the beach. 335 Fisher Hall SLEEP!! It was fun! Bottles of Aruba rum
ing. Free information. Write IJC, Box awaiting our reunion! All you straights out there working for
52-14, Corona Del Mar, Cal. 92625. ALSAC Use that V3 of life In bed to learn Anyone interested in applying for the Love, the clampdown, take heed from the 
laster. Send $25 to Michigan Sleep Arts and Letters Student Advisory the blender, Clash City Rockers--The Ice age isn't Learning Institute. P.O. Box 121, Council should ·contact Don Schmid the boozer & too far off. 
Edwardsburg, Ml 49112 For Sale (8707). the cruiser Jimmy Jazz 
Win $500 lor your vacation this Olympic ranchcoats for sale. An STRAUSS LIVES AGAIN! Come to Mugs, P.M.S. summer. No obligation. To receive lncredlcle buy at $22.001 Mens, the Chapel Choir-German Club Spring I promise to stay awake. Same time next year? You've got entry form send self addressed stamp­womens sizes. Call 288-5891 Waltz Ball this Friday In the Lafortune it-­ed envelope to Summer Sweepstakes, evenings. Ballroom, 8 pm K of C Members, I love you, tpo. 
P.O. Box 730, Coeur d'Alene, Idaho &D's Revival Party, K of CHall. Sat. · ME 83814. Join the crowd! Pope John Paul II for Color Basketball pictures still avail­April 12, 9:00 PM-? Dress Accord­
president bumper stickers. $1.00 able. Slam dunks make great decora­Ingly! Need ride to Davenport, Iowa Ap'rll each/three for $2.00. Satisfaction tions. Call 8932. 18th. Call JK Julien at 1771. 
TYPING PLUS. Term papers, theses, guaranteed, GOLDEN DOME, Box 41, Stephen Ren, dissertations. light editing, ghost Bergenfield, N.J. 07621. back by popular demand Thanks for shaping your manhood Penguin, writing. literary search, biblio­A Human Sexuality Workshop is being with me. Your lover from the poop Thanx for your hospitality and graphies, genealogies. Job resume FOR SALE--PRICES SLASHED! held on Tuesday, April 15 from 7-10 deck. company over break. As expected, It's 
service. Sliding rate scale based on p.m. in the Regina North Lounge. Dr. raining nere. Only a few weeks left, 
lead time. Special discounts on full AUDIO TAPES: Ellyn Scecker and Dr. Mark Sandock Bago Basher Steve, thank 9od! Say hi to Naomi and Roger contracts for theses and dissertations. Cassette and reel to reel will speak from 7-9 p.m. and Sr. Karol Why were you squatting behind the Allen Bear. Aardvark automatic solutlons/p.o. box limited supply! will hold a discussion from 9-10 p.m. those bushes? Have to take a load off Love, 1204 46624/phone (219) 289-6753. Sign up in the Counseling and Career your mind? Stuck In Siberia 
EQUIPMENT: Development Center, SMC. 16M M, filmstrip, slide projectors ----------------Attention Girls!!! Penguin, and viewers. Tape recorders, mics, Cheerleadlng Candidates The Sexabago has returned from its I miss you. Did you find the note? I
Lost&Found 
headphones, amps and projection The first clinic for tryouts Is Monday, first tour. The South will never be the hope 1 can hide a few more soon! bulbs all at reduced prices. Apri114 at 7:00 In the ACC pit. same after this Invasion by the nine HEHEHEHEHEH! (Deborah laugh.) 
totally crazy Bago Bashers. Love,Found: Stuck in Siberia2 keys left In Observer Office. Call SEE US AT ETS Laura, 
9-12 1-4:30 PM Even people from Arkansas deserve We would like to express our thanks to
at desk to claim. 
Room 009, CCE apersonal occasionally. Happy B-day. Bago Bashers: Wild Oats, the Terror, An Tostal Staff meetlilg-Lost: Sliver Rosary in black leather (Across from Morris Inn) Love. and Mark Kirasich, for sharing their Sunday, April 13th, 7:00pm Lafor­case lost week before break. Reward-­
Dave manhood with us and for making our tune Theater call 233-4295 or 283-6298. Educational Technology Services ----------------first time so pleasurable. 
K of C Members, --The High School Girls from the ATTENTION: Did your mom or dad Got a blank space on your wall? Fill it 60's Revival Party, K of C Hall. Mark 2100 Hotel graduate from NO or SMC in 1956?
Lost: Checkbook: Please return to me. with color basketball Action Photos. Sat., April 12, 9:00 p.m.--? Dress The class secretary of 1956 has Reward! All players, all sizes. Cheap. Not Accordingly! Bonkers, commissioned me to get a list of you John C. 1779 available from Ronco or K-Tel. Call "Con9ratulatlons" on your engage­
all. Anyway, please call 8661 or 1715 8932. Kath--Hope that you have a great 20th 
----------------
ment, it s all down hill from here, at your earliest convenience and ask
----------------
The Team for Cell. Thanks for your help.
LOST --One Tl-30 calculator. Lost Birthday! Sorry I couldn't come up for before break. 118 Nleuwland Science 1977 Camara, silver, 28,000 miles, the celebration! Hall. Cal 8383. automatic on console, small V-8 gets Love, Jenny M--Tom-­18mpg city, stereo 8-track, $3600; 1978 Susie ean I borrow your turtleneck and Happy 20th! Hope you have a good 
Lost: leMans, maroon, 20,000 miles, auto­short skirt for my formal next week­, time celebrating! We'll make it 1 14k. gold braided chain bracelet. matic, small V-6 gets 21mpg city, Thirteen Is a lucky number for Nancy end? If things get boring you and special. If found, please call 7812. AM-F M stereo-front and rear Piasecki. Have a Happy 2Qth Nanc. Margi can show everyone how to make Love, 
speakers, $3200. Both are in excellent Love, strawberry daiquerl's--the old-fash­Patsy Found: A basketball. Identify to condition. Call Lewis at 1234 week­. Bob ioned way. Have fun, claim. 7591 days, or 288-2961 evenings and week­Bernie Anne Tommorow Is Tom Schuster's Birth­
day. This stud has a lot to offer! Call
ends. Barry 
Zurch To the ROCK LOBSTER CREW-­him at 1003 to wish him a Happy Scott Thanks for the good time In Jackson­Birthday. Be sure to ask him about his
For Rent 
Rush ville and Knocksville and on 1·75. lighter!
Personals 
Mark We'll kill V.M. and G.V. tomorrow. Karen Love Helen and Mary Tawm Schuster. _
House for rent Sept. 3 bedrooms, garage, air conditioning near N.D. To Kathy Murray and the Gang: Martha P.S. Where's Rich? Happy 20th, you man, you! Have a 
great time celebrating but PLEASE
$200 includes everything. 233-1329. • Hope ya'll have a GOOD time, but -------------­
The EXCLUSIVE Happy Hour Gang Is behave yourself. You know what
not too good, all right? Keep an eye on Today Is Nina Burrells's 22nd birth­day. Happy Birthday, Nina Burrell. going all out class tonight--lookout happens at formals!!
Need male students (preferably) to Angel Face! 
world we'll be doln' It all -be there­• Your Chauffeur
share three bedroom house, newly --------------­
remodled, all new carpet and partially J.C. To the Digger Phelps fan club: aloha. 
furnished. Near N.D. Call 289-7629 Thanks for the hat. How did you Have a great time in Chicago this To Seven Sultry Women of Sarasot: after 5 PM. know it was just what I wanted? weekend. lsn 't the South Bend Get ready I!!! !:!oil-~ EXCLUSIVE 75 mph; "Grog"; Attitude adjust­
event! ment; kegs on the beach; Bubba and
Sue weather lovely? 
Louie; "Bathroom In the Sun"; roachRooms-Now and/or Summer. $40 
month. 233-1329. Dan Hussey Is so ugly-Dan Hussey Is Who's Digger Phelps? Nine bottles"' L.t;. .• '?? hunting; "escort"; empty LITE cans; 
UMOC Diz and Klz; the HUT; (need we say lsn 't he the tennis coach? Deidre Murphy--more?) Okeechobee Pollee Station) GALVOID, lt's not your manuscripts that I want Flanigan's; "stolen" cars; the Button; 
Hey loser, if you can't get a REAL Welcome LAP. • submitted--! want you--body, mind, Nithe Aath; Englebert!; handicapp­job, just Jet me know--you can always and sould ... ed?; NO Anchovies!; a blender?; 1NEED 1 measley graduation ticket-­sharpen pencils for me. HAPPIEST Of BIRTHDAYS vour secret admirer Buxom, Buxom, Buxom! Puppy Cho• DIGGER What can I say? Thanx So Much 
Wanted 
desperate! ! Mlck 8212 $$$$$ 
P.S. Good luck In Phllly. for everything. A fantastic 21st!! 
~·----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
------------------------,-----------­
-~ 
r ~ 
Friday, Aprilll, 1980 -page 20
SRorts 
Many out ofshape as players put on pads 
by Craig Chval Sports Writer 
Head Coach Dan Devine and his sixth Notre Dame squad kicked off their annual spring drills, donning pads for the first time of the year Thursday ... the weatherman was still less-than-cooperative, with temperatures in the low 40s and strong winds whipping across Cartier Field. 
Devine, who doesn't foresee the Irish getting in the maximum 20 drills before the May 3 Blue-Gold game, expressed displeasure over the physical condition ofsome of his players ... "Years ago, spring drills were to get in shape, but now there's too many other things to work on. A football player with any pride should report in top physical -.;hapt·. '' ... the Irish coach did mention defensive backs Tom Gibbons, John Krimm, and Dave Duerson as among those reporting in tip-top shape. 
The Notre Dame coaches, for the first time ever, are running the first and second defensive squads against each other in drills, instead of pitting the top rwo teams against prep squads ... if Thursday's outing is any indication, the 1dea will promote very spinted sessions ... Devine said he's bee-n pleased with the squad's enthusiasm so far. 
Former Irish split end Kris Haines was a visitor at Thursday's practice, chatting briefly with Devine ... Haines finished the 1979 season with the Chicago Bears .. .' Devine singled out sophomores Duerson and Phil Carter as looking impressive Thursday ... Duerson, who started seven games as a freshman, is the leading candidate to replace David Waymer as the starting left cornerback ... Carter, a native of Tacoma, Wash., came on strong at the end of '79, gaining 145 yards on 27 carries for a 5.4 average ... the ~-11, 185-pounder is in the battle to fill All-American balfbas:k Va8ai Eeran~agA'i ibQCii 

Freshmun Linda !-Ioyer won all three ofher singles matches dunng a recent tnp to Texas by the Insh women. See result on page 13 [photo by john Macor]. 

by Michael Ortman Associate Sports Editor 
From the Halls of Monte· zuma, to the shores of the St. Joe River· the travel log of the Notre Dame men's tennis team. 
Now with any dreaded ill­nesses out of their systems, the Irish must put their 10-day long workout/vacation in Mex­ico behind them, and concen­trate on competitive tennis, American style. With six matches in the next six days, the Irish will have to be in top shape both physically and men­tally. 
''I'd much rather play 
matches than practice,'' says 
senior captain Carlton Harris.• 
·'But you have to be careful 
when the schedule gets this 
hectic. If you lose a match 
early and let it bother you, it 
could affect your game the next 
day, and the next and so on. I 
don't think we have to worry 
about that on this team, 
though. Everybody's a tough 
competitor." 
Notre Dame will play its first 
dual match in almost three 
weeks this afternoon at one 
g'glg;k hill thi Iti&h Fl:ay h I 
to Bellarmine ColleEe (Louis­
ville, Ky:) in their first match 
(that counts, that is) since 
March 22 when the Irish 
knocked off Indiana State, 7-2 , 
for Coach Tom Fallon's 350th 
career tennis victory. In Mex­
ico the team recorded six wins 
in seven exhibition outings 
against tennis clubs in Acapul­
co and Mexico City. 
Mid-American conference 
rivals Northern Illinois and 
Bowling Green will meet in 
Friday's other match, that one 
also slated for one p.m. 
Following the conclusion of 
the initial matches, the teams 
will chan~e opponents and 
begin their second contests 
with Notre Dame playing Bowl­
ing Green and Bellarmme go­
ing against Northern Illinois. 
The second matches will be concluded Saturday morning at 9 o'clock. The cycle will be completed that afternoon when the Irish take on Northern and the Falcons play Bellarmine at 
one o'clock. 
Notre Dame was playing superl.J tennis going into the break, taking the last five matches by lopsided margins, with the 7-2 decision over Indiana State being the closest 
I II 5 I 
rently stands at 6-2. 
The three Irish opponents in the Quadrangular run the gambit in caliber of play with Bowling Green being perhaps the toughest and Bellarmine, a Division II tennis team, poss­ibly rated weakest. Althou~h Bowling Green stands 3-8 m dual competition this year, the Irish are not regarding the Falcons lightly. 
''They gave us a tough match last year," recalls Fall­on. "We won, 6-3, but there were a number of close three­setters. I'm sure they've play­ed a tough schedule this year.'' 
The one common opponent on the two teams' schedules was Cincinnati with both the Irish and the Falcons coming away with 8-1 victories. 
Following the Quadrangular, the schedule for the Irish does not relent as the DePaul Blue Demons visit South Bend for a Sunday afternoon match be­ginning at two o'clock. Notre Dame clobbered DePaul last season in Chicago, 9·0. 
All of the weekend's compet­ition is supposed to be played outdoors, weather permitting. Rain would force competition into the ACC and to nearby raeq~;~et elw8s, 
ND -SMC Gymnasts 
You've come a long way, baby 
EDITOR'S NOTE: The fol­lowing was submitted before break by Brian McLaughlin, . President of the Notre-Dame· Saint Mary's Gymnastics 
============================================================~============== 
lineup intact for outdoor track 
by Matt Huffman Sports Wnter 
The Fighting Irish outdoor track squad will feature much the same lineup as did the indoor team when it travels to State University, Ark., for the Arkansas State Relays on Sa­turday. 
·'Some runners will be moved up or down in distance because of the change from indoor to outdoor events," said Irish coach Joe Piane, "but bp;japll, js !'ill k1 tftt &imc team." 
One noticeable change will be the absence of the two-mile relay on the outdoor agenda. . The Irish team of]ay Miranda, Chuck Aragon, Pete Burger and Tim Mcauley provirl-· ~ outstan­ding performance5 (ii•duding a bid to the N\...!.A f!!',..Js) in the event duri~~ ch(. winter season. 
Miranda ts marked as the best Irish bet for a berth to the NCAA Championships in Aus tin, Tex., June 5-7. the 800-meter qualifying time is 
1·4¥ s a mgrk rhe (lcuelgod 
Ohio native has beaten before. Miranda, a senior and a team co-captain, holds the Notre Dame record of 1:48.2. 
Although Piane admits that last week's fifth place Irish finish among five schools at Middle Tennessee was not ex·. actly stellar, he points out that the meet was not indicative of what the team is capable of. His runners have a demanding schedule, Piane defends, with such events as the prestigous Drake Relays in which they can pto"e tbemsehres 
Team, a group not yet recog­nized as a club by the Univer­sity. The Observer apologizes for the delay in publication of this well-deserved tribute. · 
Ithinkthatatributeisdueto four seniors who have been largely responsible for the suc­cess of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Gymnastics Team. The four men, Bob Meehan, Danny Howley, John Paulik, and Bob Breyer, founded the Union of Notre Dame Gymnasts under the sponsorship of coach Noel O'Sullivan four years ago. Since then they have guided the team around many obstacles to many successes. 
The gymnasts have been able to raise enough money to operate for three seasons. They have attracted many new mem­bers each year so that the team is now a solid organization looking to a strong future. They 
have hired a coaGb sq rbar rhc 
team could have competitive seasons. 
Last year the team won the Purdue Golden grips Classic, and this year the women's half of the team won the meet, while the men had the all-around individual winner. They com­pete against some of the best teams in the nation and al­though they don't always win they learn and improve each time. · 
The team now is looking forward to club status and is trying to raise money for new equiJ>ment. They are very grateful to Nissen, the nation's largest manufacturer of gym­nastics equipment, for gtving them a springboard which has greatly improved their vaulting scores --from a total last year of 
53.00 points to this years total of 86.25. Hopefully, by next year the team will have all new 
[continued on page 1~) 

• 





