~..--------~~------~--------~------------~~----~-----------------------------~------------------~----~-=~-~--~---­
"I ­
, ., 
-----------------------------------------------------.. ­


VOL. XIV, NO. U2. 
f --.. ,'\Y M:,:" 2, 19;-;0 
Two arrested Kennedy toskip 
·'
OC keggers raided 
campus visit 
by Pam Degnan students persisted asking. if the by}ohn McGrath 
and ­
raid was prompted by Mayor News Editor ] ohn M. Higgins Parent. And again they were answered with, ''no comment.'' Sen. Edward M. Kennedy 
Two separate arrests occurr­The second arrest occurred at will visit South Bend briefly on ed at off-campus parties last ·a private party on Notre Dame Sunday, but contrary to prev­night in the NDI SMC off­A venue. Buffy Fritz, a Notre ious plans, the Democratic 
campus neighborhood, an area Dame senior, was arrested on Presidential challenger will not described by South Bend city be making any appearances at
the same charges in her 927 
officials as a ''fragile neighbor­Notre Dame Avenue home. Notre Dame. hood." Fritz said that she had applied Confirmation came last night 
An undercover policeman dis­for the proper permit from the from Kennc;:dy state headquart­guised in a gray Notre Dame City of South Bend early yes­ers in Indianapolis that tenta­sweatshirt appeared at the door terday and was refused because tive plans for the Massachu­
of a private Finance Club the party was to be held in a setts Senator to hold a rally at cookout (1512 South Bend Ave.), "fragile neighborhood." Stepan Center Sunday after­claimed he was a finance major She then decided to reduce noon had been cancelled. 
Instead, Kennedy will holdand gave his rwo dollar dona­the size of the party, serving 10 
tion to. the girl who was an airport rally and general
kegs instead of Lhe 30 she had 
collec-ting --the · money at the earlier planned, and moved the press conference Sunday morn­door, according to Dave party indo-ors. At approximate­mg at 10:)0 a.m. at the 
Mikkelson, a senior finance ly 10 p.m., two "suspicious Mtchiana Regional Airport, major who was at the party. types" who turned out to-be an accoring to Karen Ernst, 
press secretary for the
Mikkelson described the undercover detective and an Kennedy for President Indianaevents that followed as "some­assistant city attorney, came to Committee.
thing from Dragnet. '' the door. 
''The reason they scratched''Suddenly this guy dressed Fearing they were police, the Stepan rally was because ofin an ND shirt said he was with Fritz asked for identification, scheduling problems at thethe police department. With took their money, and let them Cleveland airport,'' explainedthat, eight cops ran into the inro the party. 
Chris Anderson, a Kennedyroom and dragged off the girl, According to Fritz, five min­campaign organizer at Notrean NO studenr who was collect­
utes later "a parade" of police 
Dame.
in~ the money at the door," -M1kkelson explained. [continued on page 4] [continued on page 8J _ The police officers proceeded 
to confiscate the two kegs that were located in the backyard, according to Tracy Finn, who 


Students giveproposals to Trustee Committee 
was also present at the party. 'When Finn questioned whether the kegs were in ''plain view,'' one of the officers responded by Paul Mullane] cited that the lack of such· ter, ,; he said. "The college committee will recommend to ''anything alcoholic is in plain Editor-in-Chief social space is somewhat re­bars were heavily patrolled; the full Board of Trustees that 
. ,
v1ew. Notre Dame student govern-sponsible for drinking prob­there were two busts of off­a feasibility study on a student 
The party was described as ment leaders yfsterday ex­lems and a ·general stifled campus parties -one was just center be co.(lducted. That rec­being "very sedate." Accord-pressed a vital concern for use attitude among students. Mur­a cook-out! With finals coming commendation will be given at ing to Mikkelson, other resi-of social space on campus, and day also pointed out that the up there's a need to blow off toda~'s Board of Trustees dents did not lodge any com-proposed the .building of a new student cenrer would allow some steam, hut there's no meetmg. 
more men and women to meet, place to go on camrus. What's The Student Affairs Commit­
plaints. student center. The proposal 
Captain Benninghoff of the was made in the annual spring enhancing the co-educational a student to do?" tee, according to Schneider, SBPD later commented that meeting between the student goals the University envisioned The old tieldhou. ;e area and serves as a link between stu­"neighbors did voice com-ieaders and the Stu1ent Affairs eight years ago. the parking lor bet,,reen Keen­dents and the ftill Board of plaints against the party.'' • Committee of tht Board of "The current status of the an Hall and the Sturlent Health Trustees. The students make 
campus atmosphere sheds light Center wen· both m~ntioned as proposals to the committee,Ar-the party the students Trustees. 
on a glaring inadequacy of the possible si1 es for the center, which, after reviewing the is­repeatedly asked, ''Why are Executivt Coordinator Don University,'' the pro{>osal although Murday and Riehle sue, recommends a course ofyou busting us?'' And the Murday, speaking on behalf of reads. ''Because of the pnority seemed to ind;cate that any action to the full Board.
offtcers repeatedly answered, student government, presented given to academics here, other somewhat central location The members of the Student
"n " ..~..thu:e~o...-......;tu.hu.e~e~i8
· ~hu.tlk..-~p.e.a._ie-.~p~ro~p~o.:.:;s::::a~l_e_anll!d!L.­
areas of development, especial-would suffile. Affairs Committee are: ly emotional and social, are Student Affairs committee Schneider, Donald J. Mar­'out of whack.' The students chairman Jack Schneider re­thews, Paul F. Hellmuth, Jane need a place where social relief sponded fayorably to the stu­C. Pfeiffer, Catherine B.
Security iuard's resignatiotz 
and comfort can be found -dents' des;re for increased Cleary, the Honorable John D. one whose environment is C')n-social space. He did mention, Rockefeller IV, Anthony F. 1 ducive to intellectual, sc::ial however, that the undertaking Early, Don~ld R. Keough and 
1 touches offstudent protest 




by Betsie Boland StaffReporter 
The resignation of ex-Main Gate Security Guard Steve Maroszan Tuesday has led to virulent reaction by many students acquainted with 1\-!aroszan. Opposition to the release ofwhat they consider to be one of the greatest assets on the Security force is being voiced in petitions being circulated for Maroszan's reinstatement. 
The purported reasons for the pressure to resign include Maroszan's judgement, tactfulness, and his inabiltiy to work with 'fellow employees harmoniously. Maroszan's claim is that competitiveness within the members of the Securtiy department, as well as his popularity among students were the root causes of the pressure from Security Director Glenn Terry for him to resign. 
According to Frank Marcinkowski, a junior from Pang-and emotional interaction.'' of a new student center (if it Fr. Thomas E. Blantz. All were 
Murday stated that the La­were approved) would be a presenr at yesterday's meeting Fortune building does not meet long-range project and that it except Cleary, Rockefeller and the current needs of the stu­might be wise to employ some Pfeiffer. dents. He said that a bowling short-range possibilities to help The committee was also pre­alley, theatreI auditorium, curtail this immediate problem sented with a proposal by an game room, and eateries would of social spale. Ad Hoc committee for the be valuable components to a Fr. john Van Wolvlear, vice­new center. This type ofatmos­president for Student Affairs, phere, acmrdin~ to Murday, and)ames McDonnell, director would heIp relteve tensions, of Student Activities, an­provide a viable non-alcoholic nounced that plans were in the alternative-to the local bars, making for the possible renova­and. become a · place to meet tion of the LaFortune ballroom other students in a natual into ''New Chautauqua,'' a settmg. coffee house-type setting which 

Early this morning Student would book popular music acts Body President Paul Riehle on weekends. It was also reinforced the importance of suggested that dances be held such a center. "Last night regularly in Stepan Center to


, 
help the students' social life.

(continued on page 4] I ~~~~i~:d a classic exampie of 
~ need a student cen-Schneider indicated that the 


I 
I t 


I News in brief
f 
Weather 
Partly sunny today and tomoTTow. Highs both days in the upper 60s. Fazr skies tonight. Lows in the mi'd 40s. Fai'r and mtld Sunday through Tuesday. Highs 65 to 75. Lows 45 to 
55. No maior earthquakes or nuclear holocausts expected 
thi's week·or next. ­
Friday, May 2 
1 pm TOURNAMENT, nd tennis quadrangurlar tourna­ment, nd vs butler, valparairso vs marquette, COURTNEY TENNIS CENTER 
S: 1 S pm MASS & SUPPER, spons: campus mmtstry, BULLA SHED 
7, 9, 11 pm MOVIE, "muppet movie," ENGR. AUD., 
spons: student union, admissiOn $1 
8 pm ND/SMC THEATER, "under milk wood" BENDIX THEATER, CENTURY CENTER 
8 pm POETRY READING, smc students, STAPLETON LOUNGE 
8 pm CONCERT, dennison singers, dennison u. LITTLE THEATER SMC, spons: joint comm-theater & music dept. free of change 
9pm NAZZ, mark ulliman, matt schwind and sandy panco, 
NAZZ 
10:30-1am NAZZ, doug stringer, NAZZ 
Saturday, May 3 
9am TOURNAMENT, nd tennis quadrangular tournament, nd vs valparaiso, marquette vs butler, COURT!~EY TENNIS CENTER 
lOam AWARDS CEREMONY, naval rotc, MEM. LIBRARY AUD. 
12pm MENS TRACK, notre dame vs eastern michigan, BEHIND A.C.C. 
lpm TOURNAMENT, nd tennis quadrangular tournament, nd vs marquette, valparaiso vs butler, COURTNEY TENNIS CENTER 
1 pm BASEBALL, notre dame vs bradley, JAKE KLINE FIELD 
2pm BLUE/GOLD, ND STADIUM 
4 pm ND/SMC THEATER, playwrights premiere, four onginal plays written and produced by students, Lipl-E THEATER, SMC, free admtssion 
7, 9, llpm MOVIE, "muppet movie," ENGR. AUD., spons: student union, admission $1 
7:30pm CONCERT, "we together singers," O'LAUGHLIN AUD. admission charged 
8pm CONCERT, "rufus" featuring "chaka kahn," ACC, tickets $8.50 & $7.50 ' 
8:30pm NAZZ, harry nehls and company, spons: nazz, NAZZ 
9:30pm RACE, first annual deans run, spons: college of science student council, ST. MARY'S LAKE, CARROLL HALL 
I0-1am NAZZ, rich stevenson & dan berenato, NAZZ 
I 
Sunday, May 4 
1 pm BASEBALL, notre dame vs detroit, JAKE KLINE FIELD 
2-6pm FILM, "avargal" spons: india assoc. MEM. 
LIBRARY AUD. 
7pm MEETING, water polo club, new members welcome, LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
8pm RECITAL, caroline knell, vocalist, smc faculty, LITTLE THEATER, SMC, spons: music dept. . 
8pm STRAUSS GALA, south bend CENTIJRY CENTER tickers $3 (students, sr. citizens $2) on sale at ace & century' center, spons: nd dept. of music 


"' .. ' ... "' ..
t :_ o(, "\. ,'-:. ~ ';.. t. ,. L-\", ..... '~ 
,· . ~ . . . .· . . . • • .I . 
-' 

Friday, May 2, 1980 -page 2 

Senior Fellow selection held up 
by john McGrath News Editor 

Graduation ceremonies are only two weeks and two days away, but no Senior Fellow has yet been selected, The Observer learned yesterday. 
''The reason we don • t know is that we're behind sche­dule," admitted Mary Reppa, one of two coordinators for the Senior Fellow selection. She 
blamed  some  of her group's  
problems  on  The  Observer,  
charging that  the holdup  was  

due to a delay on the news­paper's part in printing the announcement about the selec­tton. 
The selection process got under way in January, how­ever, and shortly after votes were received from members of the Senior Class, a commit­tee narrowed the choice down to 35 candidates, according to Reppa. 
Rock 'n Roll Newspaper 
" 

Night Editor: Margaret ''Sex Pistol'' Kruse Asst. Ni'ght Editors: · Neil "The Boss" O'Brien, Mike "Gigolo" Monk, Mary "E­Street Band" Kasper · Copy Editor: Jim Morrison Layout Staff Frank Zappa, Lois "One Bourbon, One Scotch, One Beer" Kennedy "Billy" Joel Annable News Editor: Dr. Hunter S. "T.J." Thompson Editorial Layout: ) imi "Madness" Hendrix & Lou "Frak" Reed Features Layout: ) ohn Macor, Molly "(Really) Cheap Trick" Woulfe Sports Layout: Beth ''Marshall Tucker'' Huffman, Kelly ''Super­tramp'' Sullivan Typists: Kathy Murray, Kim Convey, Nancy Russell,_ Michelle Kelleher, Beth Huffman EMTs: Tim '') ohnny Rotten" Sullivan, Kim "Bottle of Reds, Bottle of Whites'' Convey Proofreader: Danno Ryan, 
J. ''Discotheque' • Chaussee ND Day Garcia: Jerry Garcia SMC Day Editor: Patti Smith 
Guest Appearances: Ann "Love Stinks" Monaghan, Ryan '"Lydia Lunch" Vet berkmoes, Chris ''Flyers on Fire, Sixers in Six" Needles, Sal "Armed Forces" Gran­ata, Kate "The Band" Far­rell, the Rockford Rock...... 
And we all survived, thoup.h I doubt no one will have the mental stamina to tell the tale. [We'll be too busy sleeping!] 
Tht Obstrvtr (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam ana vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing Tht Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved. 

" "'
•.... ""· "\ ­
•. ' · •,.;"', ."· '.5 
Although Reppa said the selection would be announced late this week or early next week, this year's selectton dat appears to be only part of a trend towards later and later announcements during recent years. 
Jay Kane, assistant director of Information Services, con­firmed this apparent trend, commenting, ''The Senior Fellow selection used to be made public by mid-April, but these past few years, the announcement has been pushed back further and further. •• 
Reppa refused to reveal the names of those candidates who are now being considered for the selection. 

"It would be unfair to who­ever wins (the Senior Fellow selection) if he or she were to find out that they were number ten on the list of candidates,'' R,eppa explained. 
Senior Class President Nick Schneeman was unavailable for comment, and class vice presi­
dent  Bob  Carey  refused  to  
make  any  comment  on  the  
matter.  

Last year, Richard Lugar, 
U.S. Senator from Indiana, was named Senior Fellow. 

Thompson Awards presented last weekend 
The Black Cultural Arts Council held the first annual Frazier L. Thompson Awards Program and Dance in the Randall's Inn Venetian Room, South Bend on Friday night. Thompson was the first black to graduate from Notre Dame. He received his B.S. in prepro­fessional studies in 1947. 
David Terrance, a freshman from New Orleans, was named distinguished Student Member while Spanish Professor Wil­liam Richardson received the award for Distinguished Facul­ty Member. Joyce Jordan, a sophomore general program rr.ajor from Washington, D.C. , was named Outstanding Black Student. 
Other presentations were made to Dr. Linda Beard, english professor, for outstand­ing contributions as a first year faculty member, and Emma Breveard, secretary of the black studies program, for outstanding contribution to the 
B.C.A.C.  A special presenta­ 
tion  was  made  to  Dr. James  
Steward,  former  director  of  

black studies and professor of economics who will be leaving Notre Dame this year to take a position at Penn State. 


SUNDAY MASSES AT SACRED HEART CHURCH 
): IS p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
.9:00a.m. Sunday Rev. Thomas King, C.S.C. 
10:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. David Fedor 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C. S.C. 7:15p.m. Vespers Rev. David Fedor 
campus
miniStry 




Refrigerator Drop-off 
Monday MayS 11:00-5:00 Stepan Center $5.00 fee for uncleaned or unfrosted refrigerators 
.u. 


•.1 • 


-

............. . 
The Observer Friday, May 2, 1980 -page 3 

On campus campaigning increases in a<:}vance of presidential primary 
by Ke/11_ Flint delegates can change their Hau added that 7000 si~na­Senior StaffReporter votes at the Democratic conven­tures are needed on a petitiontion this summer. A recent poll to get Anderson on the presi­
Various groups of students of Carter's delegates selected dential ballot. "We're not do­supproting Jimmy Carter, Ron­by caucus shows that 75 percent ing much campaigning in Indi­ald Reagan, Edward Kennedy of them will support Kennedy ana now because the deadline and]ohn Anderson are prepar­at the Convention.'' for the petition isn't until ing for Tuesday's Indiana pres­Anderson added that one August," Hau said. "Our con­idential primary by increasing third of the total number of cerns are very good for gettingtheir on and off-campus cam­delegtes will be selected June Anderson on the ballot as an paigning this weekend. 3. "It's anybody's nomination Independant. '' 
Paul Klingaman, Notre at this point," he said. Dame/Saint Mary's campaign · Rep. John Anderson cam­coordinator for President Car­paign sroup will be setting upter, held a meeting last night in tables m the library this week­
Indiana Bell 
LaFortune for interested stu· end to push votes for him in the dents. "We had a poor re­Republican primary Tuesday,sponse,'' Klingaman said. accoding to Campus Cordinator 
offers
''There is a general apathy on Larry Hau. "Anderson is still 
the campus right now because on the Republican primary 
•

of final exams. I feel that Tuesday, accor:ding to Campus student interest will increase in Coordinator Larry Hau. "An­servtce the fall.'' derson is still on the Republican 
Klingaman said that his cam­ballot, and we want voters to Off-campus students may paign group will distribute pos­show their support for him," return their telephones to a ters and literature on campus Hau said. ''Anderson is the truck located in the parking lot this weekend. Off-campus best alternative to Carter and behind the Huddle on May plans for the weekend include Reagan." 12-16 or 19-20 between noon workers going door to door and Hau said that the campaign and 4 p.m. The service, making phone calls to students group will also try to get provided by Indiana Bell, will and South Bend residents. students to ·volunteer in their allow students to arrange the 
According to Klingaman, home states. Interestedstudents disconnection of their service Carter's chances for winning can sign up at the tables set up here rarher than have to visit the Indiana Democratic primary in the library this weekend. the Phone Center. are good. ''Although I feel that the campaign will be more intense in the fall when mor~ funds in the St. ) oe ·area a.re 
DR. M1Lt.5 COINE.R'5 DIR£Cf1N& SIUDeNfS IN:
available,'' Klingaman said, ''more people will realize who the better candidate is when faced wah ~he decision May 6. '' 



ihecKre
Former Governor Reagan's campaign group expects no · -problem with his winning the Republican primary in this 

{es\\t4a\
area, according to Greg Folley, Chairman of the NDI SMC group and member of the 
preW1h>:
Steering Committee for the Reagan of St. Joe's County. ' 'We're not going overboard on 
PLAYS ...... 
the Indiana primary," Folley said. "Unfortunately, we tapped our resources with Rea­gan's visit. We will be handing 
ORGAN -[MAY 7) §)
out literature this weekend, but 
~~;.;wv~~g:-:v:0~~prn scenic mcdul e
this will be done more off-cam­0 
pus than on.'' w6shirvpon hal\ (ND) . 
Folley said that he sees Reagan's chance as 100 percent 

~M..:.N~~~~N (~AY 7, 8,/
of winning by a substantial 
margin in Ind1ana. "He can't 
9:45pm. wditorium 
lose," Folley said. "He won 
wdsningfon hQII lN D)
against Ford here in '76, so we don't see any possibility that he'll lose this time. ' ' -APR,ANA 1R~ N\ (MAY bl 
Sen. Kennedy's ND/SMC 
campaign group will be coor­C(3: oo prn. Little 1hootre 
dinating weekend campaign ef­SMC 
forts with his South Bend 
headquarters, according to -6R£60R~ HA~~ [MAY s,Jil
Chris Anderson, a candidate-for Indiana delegate to the Indiana LUNCHfltv\E (lt.:oo NooN) State Convention. 
"We will be phone-polling • <?pen air 1teotre 
people to see the Democratic -the ro~k behind L" Fortune {ND) 
preference," Anderson said. ''As it stands, the majority of the people are undecided, but we have a long way to go.'' 



NO/SMC 111M1ke 
Anderson added that Kenne­dy will be in South Bend on Sunday. "There isn't a possibil­ity that will be on the Notre 
TIPPECANOE PLACE RESTAU RANT
Dame campus,'' Anderson 
said. "The possibility was dis­
IS NOW HIRING RESTAURANT PERSONNEL 
cussed, but no plans were 
full or part time;day and night shifts
made. Kennedy will spend one 
hour at the airport Sunday for a 
high wages; excellent benefits 
rally/press conference ~ith 
training:classroom and on the job
Digger Phelps, Dan Devme, 
cordial atmosphere
Orlando Woolridge, and Vag as 
Ferguson. There ~ill ~_phone 
FOOD WAlTERS AND WAITRESSES BUSBOYS/BUSGIRLS
blitz after Kennedy s VISit Sun­
day, and another one on Mon­
COCKTAIL WAITRESSES DISHWASHERS BROILERCOOKS day." 
HOSTESSES BARTENDERS PREP COOKS MAINTENANCE MEN 
According to Anderson, Ken­nedy faces an uphill battle 
APPLY IN PERSON BETWEEN 11:00 am S 6:00pm nationally. ''Any wm would be 
MONDAYTHRU S~.TURDAY 
big help," he said. "People 
AT EOE-M/F
aren't aware that a good num­
ber of Caner's delegates were 
TIPPECANOE PLACE 
selected by caucus. Caucus 
620 W. Washin~ton Ave South Bend, Ind. 

You'll need a scoreboard to tell the players apart in this year's "quarterback derby." [See story p.21J [photo by Tim McKeogh] 
5Q¢MOLSON$1.75 PITCHERS thursday, _friday& saturday . good food, good drir_l~, good times atLEE'5 must have 21 id  
Best wishes to all graduating seniors ..-....-..-.....iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilll and returning students. We'U still be here in the fall. Schedule of Events (Cut out and keep in a safe place) May 2 -2pm-7pm Molson S. 75 3 -Cartoon "Cocktail Hour -open 10 am Double Bloody Mary Sl.OO 10am-2pmBudweiser 2/Jl.OO alf day 5 -2 pm-7pm 3 Drafts/Sl.OO 6-7pm-3am STROH's 2/$1.00-7 -2pm-7pm 3 drafts/$1.00 8 -7pm-3am MOLSON S. 75 9-2P.m·ZQ.m 3 drafts/Sf.OO 10 • COKBY'S STREET KIDS first softball gameofthe 1980 season STROH'S 2/$1.00 KAMIKAZEES $.50 7pm-3am 12 2pm-7pm 3 drafts/Sl.OO 13 2pm-3am STROHS 2/Sl.OO 14 2pm-7pm 3 drafts/$1.00 15 2pm-7pm 3/~1.0016 2pm-7pm : rafts/11.0016 2pm-7pm 3 rafts/ 1.00 17 2pm-7pm 3 drafts/ 1.00 All my thanks to Tim, Mike, Kurt, Marty, Bill, Pete, and especially Dave. You made life much easier this school year. OSCAR  

--------. 
The Observer 

Friday , May 2, 1980 -page 4 
ND Summer Session provides varietyofeducational experiences ......·,-.(..,,.,.,.,.-.,..._.,.,,,.,., 
by Laura Lan'more Senior StaffReporter 
The Notr(" Dame Summer Session provides a variety of educational experiences not well known to the average ND/SMC student, according to Fr. Robert J. Austgen, Summer Session director. 
Primarily graduate-oriented, the session has an approximate enrollment of 2700, of which only 400 are undergraduate, Austgen stated. The majority ofcourses offered are graduate level. 
Austgen commented. two weeks living and working 
The summer session runs for among the students, Austgen seven weeks and begins this said. year on June 2 The students ''Notre Dame is nation3;lly are housed in J.O or 11 dorms on known for the ceramics the campus. Bothdinin_ghalls are workshop," Austgen ad~ed. open as pay cafeterias. The Master of Science of 
Austgen stressed the national Administration program, and international reputations of through the College of Business the special institutes and pro-is another nationally acclaimed grams that are held during the program. The degree awarded summer. after three summers of course 
The Art Department features work is in Institutional Adminis­an Artists in Reside.1ce progmm. tration. The emphasis is on There are three workshops: businesses not profit-oriented,. Women Artists in Residence, such as health care organizations, Ceramic Artists in Residence, and religious grouJ?s. and schools. 
"Many of our· students are Printmakers (Litho/Etching/ older people who audit courses Screen pit nt in Residence. A to update their education, as minimum of four artists from well as professionals who wish to around the country attend each come up-to-date in ~heir fields," summer. They stay for at least 
SUMMFJI STORAGE SPACE ~ 
SpecialcbscolUll for ND 101d SMC students, • 
259-0335 
SeU Lock Storage ot McKinley 816East McKinley 
Mishawaka 
-.· -­



JOB OPPORTUNITY with brand 
energy saving productfor cars and trucks. art timepeople can easily make $10perhour Full time much more. 
Call collect for an appointment at 
(616)471-5161 
. --------­

-~---


Austgen pomted out that last [continued on page 6] 
...Raid 
[continued from page 1] 
officers came through the front door. Fritz was handcuffed and taken down to the County Jail where she was booked and released on $50 bail. 
"I tried to get the permit," Fritz said, "I tried to do what they wanted and act respons­ibly. I guess that wasn't good enough." 
Benninghoff said that it was because of Fritz's attempt to get the permit that they decided t'J raid the pan y. "We figured from her response that she'd throw it anyway.'' 
Benninghoff also said that they just "happened upon" the Finance Club party by mistake while looking for F.·itz's party, 
but  they  decided  to  "bust it  
anyway."  
Callmg  the  whole  expisode  

"absu~·d," SBP Paul Riehle said, "If this isn't harassment, then I'd better check my dic­tionary." We had a meeting with the South Bend Police a week ago with the intent of building better relations with rhem," Riehle explained, "but ''hat happened ~.onight is just ~diculous.'' 
For Your Convenience 
Indiana Bell wants to make disconnection of telephone service for off camr:2_us students as convenient as possible. So, we will be parking an Indiana Bell truck behind the Huddle and have personnel there to help you make all the arrangements. 
We will be there: Dates: Mon.-Fri., May 12-16 
Mon.-Tue., May 19-20 Time: Noon to 4:00 P.M.· Location: Parking lot behind 
the Huddle 

Just bring your completed disconnect form and your telephone(s) with you. You 
• 

will receive a $4.00 credit per telephone on your final tele­phone bill for the phones that you disconnect and return. 
-If you cannot make it to our truqk, please call us on 237-8400 to make other arrange­@ Indiana Bell ments. 
/ , ,· ,. 
.~ 
... ;:···:­
~: :>:;:··. .. ·::: 
_}: 
-~---·. 

The Main Gate wzfl be manned by someone other than 
Steve Maroszan for the first time in months tonight. See 
story below. [photo by Tim McKeoghJ 

• • .Security 
[continued from page 1] 

born Hall, four out of five other main-gate Security guards 
sent letters to Terry demanding . the termination of 
Maroszan's employment because they could not work in 
harmony with him. "Steve (Maroszan showed me the letters. 
They, the guards, felt that his friendliness -waving and 
smi.ljng at passing cars and pedestrians -was not part of his 
job, and they could not effectively work with him," he said. 
Maroszan indisputably has widespread student support, 
especially in the halls which deal most frequently with the 
main gate area -Dillon, Alumni, and Pangborn, mainly 
because of his friendly and genuinely concerned attitude 
toward the students. Pat Conklin, president of Dillon Hall 
and one of Maroszan's most vocal supporters, believes that 
"Boog Powell," as he is called, fraternized with the 
students, and this has caused much of the trouble. 

"Boog is someone who does his job and is unjustly being 
fired," he stated. "People like him because of his total 
attitude toward students. He generates more respect in the 
Security force, and peorle aren't so defensive when faced 
with Security personne after having dealt with him,'' he . claimed. 
Lou Moran, student government executive coordinator, 
does not feel that anything can be done to reinstate Maroszan , 
to the force, but thinks Security should take a closer look at 
their method of operation, and perhaps learn why Maroszan 
was so well-liked, and so effective at his job at the main gate 
keeping the gate intact and rowdy students from driving on 
campus. 

, ''I feel that (Security) has not given a justifiable reason, ­
not that there may not be one, for Steve's release. The only 
thing I'd like to see come out of this is for Security to 
reevaluate, as Steve did, they would earn the respect that 
Steve undeniably had from the students,'' Moran explained. 
A number of students, concerned that Maroszan has not 
~otten fair treatment, have contracted Moran, and a petition 
Is being circulated in Pangborn, Dilloo, and several other 
dorms for Maroszan's reinstatement. Moran feels that not 
only will that measure probably be ineffective, but it may not 
be immediate enough for the very angry students. 

"Drastic action of a retaliatory nature may occur this 
weekend, and I surely wouldn't want to be in that hut when 
some angry guys get there," he said. 

"Security personnel seem to take the attitude that they're 
here to enforce rules, not to protect students. Steve treated 
us like adults, and Security would encounter a lot less 
problems if they would change their attitude to treating us 
like adults, too, instead of like kids,'' he concluded. 

Keith Hedinger, a junior from Howard, commented that he 
found what he feels is a forced resignation "cruel and 
. " 
UnJUSt. 

[continued on page 6] 
Jan &Amy-Happy Graduation! 
Thank You for Everything I will miss you next year I love you 
Peg. 




-----.------------~------~--~--------------------------~~----~~ 
' 

The Observer Friday, May 2, 1980 -page 5 
ND/SMCgovernment: Observeranalysis 
Editor's Note: In today 's Observer analyses, the effectiveness of both ~he N_cilre Dame an_d_ Saint Mary's Student Governments is exammed zn detJth. R.etmng Executive News Editor Mike Lewis [left) look~ at the P,as_t history and questionable future of the Campus Life CountJtf m the second oj hi's two-part sen'es which be_gan yester~ay. Additionaly, present News Editor Pam Degnan [nght] exammes the structure of the Saint Mary's Student Governmellt including the recently abolished Student Assembly. 
STARRING 

JA~K Nl~~~l~~N ~~RlfY ~~VAll "l~f ~~ININ~" 
WITH BASED ON THE NOVEL BY 
~~AlMAN ~~~1~[~~, ~ANNY ll~Y~ ~l[r~[N ~~N~ ~lANUY ~~~RI~~~mANf J~~N~~N iNifY"m~~it~ 
EXECUTIVE PRODUCER 
PR~OU~W IN ASSOCIAliON WllHJAN ~A~lA~ lH[ P~ODU~fR ~~~~li CO. 
From Warnef Bros C)A Warner Commumcat1011s Company (:) MCMLXXX Warner Bros Inc All >logo-,·~ qt .e• 
WORLD PREMIERE MAY 23 NEW YORK and LOS ANGELES AND FROM JUNE 13 AT A THEATRE NEAR YOU
,.? ........ ~ ··-··p··~·-.. ·· 
by Michael Lewis Executive news editor emen"tus 
Fr. Richard Conyers calls it ''a frustrated body which plays at giving advice or in whtch a small few develop parlimen­tary and debating skills.'' SBP Paul Riehle says it is "ineffec­tive" and that it should be restructured or abandoned. Former SBP Bill Roche says it is "limited," but useful in form­ing hall life proposals. 
. Most students apparently do not know what lt is, are frustrated with its track record or simply do not care. 
The Campus Life Council, though one three years old, has been the source of many stu­dents frustration with Student Government. Most recently, SBP Paul Riehle called for a Constitutional Convention in the fall, presumably to replace the CLC with some form of Student Senate. 
Fiddling with the form and structure of SG is common among new SBPs. Dave Ben­der created the CLC threee years ago to replace the Smdent Life Council, a child of an earlier generation's unrest. The next year, SBP Andy McKenna created the short­lived Council on Communica­tions, to "improve communica­tions'' between the students and Student Government. Be­fore long, the Council had forgotten its original purpose, and, for the average student, had ceased to exist. Bill Roche did not bring any major chan­ges to the organization, but he did overhaul the duties and offices of his cabinet. 
So it is no surprise that Riehle proposed doing away with the CLC. 
The Council's problem has always been a problem of identity. It is not, as some students apparently believed, the legislative branch of sm­dent govenment. Student Go­vernment has no legislative powers at all. 
The CLC is an advisory body, whose purpose it to serve as a 
[co'ntinued on page lo] 


by Pam Degnan News Editor 
"I don't know what is going 
on. Student government is 
nothing but a game." 
This statement reflects the 
attitude that many students at 
Saint Mary's College hold 
about their student ~overn­
ment. According to an mform­
al poll conducted in the five 
residence halls, a large major­
ity of the student body have 
little or no conception of how 
their government organizations 
operate. But a disturbing cact 
is that students just do not care 
to get involved in the demo­
crane process. 
As one student bluntly points out, "Let's face it. We (the students) don't have the sources or the power 'to initiate change in administrative policies. Why even bother when it gets you absolutely nowhere.'' 
Students themselves are ul­timately responsible for the utilization and development of their governmental divisions but perhaps the real answer lies within the make-up and effectiveness of the branches of government. 
Student government is div­ided into three branches: the Board of Governance, Student Assembly and the Judiciary. As of last wee,, Student Ass­embly has been abolished and placed under investigation until next fall. 
According to the Saint Mary's Student Handbook, the purpose of the Board of Gov­ernance "shall be to act as a steering committee by discuss­ing problems relating to Stu­dent Government and by mak­ing recommendations to stu­dent committees. 
Originally created as an ad­visory coucil to the student assembly, the Board of Gov­ernance has emerged as the sole "representative" organi­zation on campus. 
''There isn't any substantial student representation any­more. The Board has assumed too much of the responsibilities 
[continued on page 11) 


1 
l 
! 
A
, I 
~ 
I 

I l 1 
I 
' 
~ 



A~lANlfY K~~RI~K filM 
• ------~ < 



\ 
The Observer Friday, May 2, 1980 -page 6 
• • • Summer Session 
[continued from page 4) from the NDISMC Summer Theatre, featuring ''Piay it 
summer there were 195 degree . . d I ' •
. s 'J B
Agatn, am an ..

students in the program as among others. The NDISMCcompared to 150 enrolled in the Theatre for Young PeopleMBA sequence during the regu­presented three plays.
lar term. 
-Films from the InternationalTwo other special programs Festival Showcase were shownoffered through the Summer through the Summer SessionSession are the Liturgical Studies Cinema. The Department ofProgram and the Retreat Ministry English sponsored a confer­Institute, sponsored by Ret~eats ence series. Other lectureInternational. ''Notre Dame 1s an series and films were spon­international center for liturgical sored by the various depart­studies,'' Austgen explained. 
ments.

He continued, "The Master's Austgen asked that under­in Liturgical Studies had 130 graduates interested in specific degree students enrolled last courses or innovative programssummer while the Institute had contact him. "Summer is a
327 participants, mainlyt 
good time to experiment withreligious.'' 
different kinds of programs,''As well as academic courses, he said.
rhe Summer Session also 
For instance, the mini-coursesponsors cultureal events. Last idea used during the fall andsummer these included plays 
A TIME TO DECIDE 
are making decisions. Afew samples: 
1. 
What kind of summer job will I do? 

2. 
What will be my major? 

3. 
Whom will I room with next year~ 


4. What will I do after graduation? For those considering the priesthood, question is: Is this the time when I should 
whether I want to become a pries[? If this is the decision you must make, then for a personal, confidential Fr. Andre Leveille, CSC 
interview contact: Holy Cross Vocation Director Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 

spring was first .test~d during the summer sesswn. 
As a final remark, Austgen added ''Most Notre Dame students go home in the summer and miss a good opportunity to try out courses and programs they couldn't ordinarily do during the regular school year.'·' He invited all NDI SMC students ot take advantage of the Summer Session. 
Provost appointsBeckman· 
The appomtmem of Freder­ick S. Beckman, professor of art, to a three-year term as chairman of the department of art at Notre Dame has been announced by Professor Tim­othy 0'Meara, provost. He will succeed Rev. A. James Flanigan, who will leave after serving two terms as chairman. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1946, Beckman organized the nation­ally recognized program in industrial design, one of only 2P. approved study areas of its type in the nation. see original 
Blooddonor 
registration 
May24 • 
An optional entry fee of donating a pint of blood will highligh the Michiana Blood Donor Run to be held here on May 24. Registration forms are available at the Central Blood Bank and at area sport­ing goods stores. 
_ ·'Calm down! At least we made it close," a Planner player consoles his teammate in their 1-0 loss to Dtilon in the soccer finals. [Photo by Tim McKeogh] 



Final exam information 
Final examinations for the are scheduled on the same day 
Spring Semester, 1979-80 will or more th:;.n three examina­
be held at the University from tions are scheduled in a 24­
8:00 a.m. Wednesday, May 7, hour period, or that an emer­through 9:30 p.m. Monday, gcncyabsence or illness makes May 12. No examinations are H impossible to attend an to be scheduled on Sunday examination when scheduled, morning, May 11. contact the Office of the Re~i­
In the event that two exam­strar, Room 21 S Administration inations are scheduled in con­Building, prior to the start of flict according to the published the examination so that you examination schedule, or that may be assisted in making the more than two exammauons necessary arrangements. 
. .. • • .Security 
[continued from page 4] 
"Maroszan was a refreshing presence in the Security department, with a vocabulary that consisted of ~ore th~n 'NO!'. Security's job is students and they take no mterest m the students," he said. . . 
John Daly, a Dillon junior, finds the. whole s1tuauon unfortunate because Maroszan's presence m the front gate was always good for a smile or greeting, or a good joke to take home with you. . . 

Curiously, Maroszan apparently does h1s JOb very well: 
students who have tried to get on campus when he was 

tending gate have found that a courteous, but firm, refusal_ 
greets them. Marcinkowski commented that the problem ?f 
gate-crashers, those who break the g~tt; to get on camJ?US, 1s 
almost non-existent when Maroszan 1s m the hut. He 1s also 

happy to explain why a certa_in rule ffil;~St be enforced, or just 
to chat for a few mmutes w1th a passmg student. 
The reasons for the resignation are as yet undete~minable. 

Glenn Terry said that he would rather keep th1s matter 
personal and private, and does not feel that Maroszan was 
forced to resign. · . . 
When asked if he expected any retaliatory trouble th1s 
weekend, Terry responded that, "That would be ?ut of my 

expectations of what adult students would do. I don t see why 
students would cause rouble over something that happened 
internally.'' 

OBSERVER NEEDS~ VAN DRIVERSFOR 1980-81 YEAR. ALL 
DAYS AVAILABLE THIS IS A PAID POSITION. Contact Titn at 8661 or 1387 


The Observer 
At commencement 


Civilettito address Class of'80 
Benjamin R. Civiletti, attor­ney general of the United states, will · be the speaker at Notre Dame's 135th com­mencement exercises May 18. 
Civiletti, sworn in as attor­ney general in August 1979, will also receive an honorary doctor of laws degree. As attorney general he is respon­sible of the administration of the Department of Justice, which has some 55,000 employ­ees and an annual budget of more than $2 billion. Ci­viletti has also served as de­puty attorney general, respon­sible for the Department's criminal justice system, and as­sistant attorney general, head­ing the Department's Criminal Division. 
In addition to Civiletti, hono­rary degrees will be presented ro the following (alphabeti­cally): 
Raoul Batt, doctor of science, has been a professor of ma­thematics at Harvard Univer­sity since 1959. Recipient of the first Verblen Prize of the American Mathematical Society, Bott was elected to the National Academy of Sci­ences in 1965. 
Thomas R. Donahue, doctor of laws, is secretary-treasurer of the AFL-CIO, making him second in command of the 
13.6 million-member labor or­ganization. In a labor career that goes back to 1948, Do­nahue held a variety of po­Sitions with the Service Em­ployees International Union be­fore becoming executive assis­tant to the late George Meany in 1973. 
Thomas Ehrlich, doctor of laws, is director of the In­ternational Development Co­operation Agency which co­ordinates U.S. overseas eco­nomic development activities under the President and se­cretary of state. . Ehrlich is als'o former president of the Legal Services Corporation and former dean and professor of the Stanford Law School. 
James P. Grant, dr~tllr of 
laws, became executive dtrec­
tor of the United Nations 
Childrens Fund in January 
1980. Since 1969 he had been 
presedent and chief executive 
officer of the Overseas Deve­
lopment Council, a private or­
ganization promoting Third 
World development. Prior 
to that Grant was an assis­
tant administrator with the A­
gency for International Deve­
fopment. 
!-Ianna H. Gray, doctor of laws, was named president of the University of Chicago .r. July 1978, becoming the first woman to serve as chief execu­tive officer of a major Amer­ican coeducational institution qf higher learning. In 1974, 
~NO BENDIX 
THEATRE

5MC CENTURY 
THEATR~ C~NTER 
UNDER MILK WOOD 284-9111 he gentle. humorou 
story of a day in the life of a Welsh Village May 1,2;3 
S4.00 (S3.00 8pm Stu./ Fac./ Staff) 
after teaching history at Chi­cago and Northwestern Uni­versity, she was elected pro­vost of Yale University where she was also acting president from 1977 to 1978. 
Rev. Timothy S. Healy, doc­tor of laws, is. president of Georgetown University, a post he has held since 1976. The priest-scholar has also been professor of English, executive vice presedent of Fordham U­niversity, and vice chancellor for Academic Affairs at the City University of New York. 
William R. Hewlett, doctor of engineering, cofounded with David Packard the Hewlitt Packard Company, a major de­signer and manufacturer· of pre­cision electronic equipment with annual sales of oved a billion dollars from its world­wide opersations. Hewlett, former president and chief executive office, is today a company director and chairman of its executvie committee. 
Frank E. Mackie, doctor of laws. is president of Mackie Company, Inc., a construction firm based in Florida, and president and chief executive officer of the Deltona Corpor­
ation,  a  FLorida  real  estate  
development  firm  which  
specializes  in  limited  size,  

tailor-made communitites. He has been a Notre Dame trustee since 1964. 
James Reston, doctor of laws, retired in December 1974 as vice president of The New York Times Company, but still 
writes an editorial page column which appears three times weekly in The Times. Reston, two-time Pulitzer Prize winner, has been an editor with The Times since 1964 and is still a consultant to the paper and director of the Company. 
Paul A. Volker, doctor of laws, was named chairman of the Federal Reserve Board in August 1979. A specialist in international monetary systems, Volker has also been Under Secretary of the Treasury for Monetary Affairs and president and chief executive officer of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
Elie Wiesel, doctor of laws, is a Romaninan-born,French­educated author and journalist, a survivor of the death camps of Auschwitz and Buchenwald who has been called the "spiritual archivist of the holocaust.'' Currently a professor of humanities at Boston University, his works include ''Four Hasidic Masters,'' a collection of lectures he gave at Notre Dame in 1977 published by the Notre Dame Press. 
Speaker of the House Thomas P. "Tip" O'Neill, Jr., will also be honored at the commencement exercises as the 1980 recipient of Notre Dame's Laetare Medal, the oldest honor accorded American Catholics. 
ND-SMC: THEATRE'S --------­

i 
• 
Duffy's People •• Maureen Read 

• 
Supper's at Six •• Martha .J. McLean 

•S~b 
Seal •• Tom Clark 

• 
Two of Us •• Karl Meyer 




_e 4 PM Sat. May 3 , 
~-~ 
SMC LITTLE THEATRE et 
---------·­




Senior Bar 

Fri. May 2nd ttoday) 3:30-6:()() Featuring: 
BeerSpecials Tequila Sunrise & Snake Bite SPECIALS 
Friday, May 2, 1980 -page 7 
. ~ j 

FLEETWOOD
MAO And Christopher Cross 
ed. & Thurs. May 14 & 15 
Rosemont Horizon Rosemont, Illinois Tickets on sale at River City Records 

--~rll~lllR[ ________ 
AndThe Silver Bullet Band 
Friday Ma~ 23 
Rosemont Horizon ___!_i~~e.!~~-~~!~!~_CJ!Y_~~~~~-­

JO EYTh~~bys
Saturday May 24 
Notre Dame A.C.C. Ticketson sale at River City Records 
andZTOP Roadrnaster 
Saturday May 10 
Fort Wayne Coliseum Ticketson sale at River City Records 



TOM CHAPINI 
SOR SEALS BLUES BARD This Friday, May 2 
Vegetable Buddies, South B~q tickets available at River City Records 
featuring



RUFUS 
ChakaKahn

special guest The Brothers Johnson 
This Saturdav Mav 3 
Notre Dame ACC tickets available at River City Records 
, 
---------------------------­
PAT TllAVEBS 

Wednesday May 7 Morris CivicAuditorium, South Bend tickets on sale at River City Records 
,., 



Friday, May 2, 1980 -page 8 
The Observer 

... Trustees 
[continued from page 1) 

to help the group's efforts. notch'' footing for basketball Student Body Vice-President and volleyball courts.
establishment of a social con­Don Ciancio proposed that the Frank Guilfoyle, an execu­cerns center. Group spokesman student activities fee be raised tive coordinator on Reihle' s Mary Meg McCarthy proposed to $25 per student. Schneider student government cabinent,that the center -which would indicated, however, that when briefly reviewed the work done consist of service groups from the proposal was made last fall on dormitory social space. HeVolunteer Services, Theology to raise the fee from $17 to cited growing rapport betweenand Community Services, Ur­$20, the committee asked for the students and administra­ban Plunge, and the Unseen the fee to be raised to $25. tion as the reason studentCity program -move into the Schneider said that the raise government was successfullyWNDU building, which is ex­was approved and will take able to spend $40,000 to devel­pected to be vacated in the effect this fall. op social space in 15 out ofnear future. 
Outgoing Student Body Pres­Notre Dame's 22 student dorm­Members of the Ad Hoc Ident Bill Roche made a brief Itones.
group indicated that conversion end-of-the-year report. He Guilfoyle added that it would of the current WNDU "facility cited that student govern­be advantageous to set up ainto a building to suit their ment's emphasis was in three hall improvements fund on aneeds would cost between main areas: solving as best a permanent basis. Schneider
$150,000 and $200,000. The 
possible the social space prob­said the idea was sound, andstudent group also pointed out lem by attaining $40,000 for perhaps matching funds couldthat it would be able to share distribution among the dorms; be used if this plan was everthe building with another spe­interest in maintaining the finalized.
cial interest group. 

hockey program and minor Off-campus commissionerMcCarthy emphasized that a sports scholarships while ex­Mark Kelley reported on thecenter of this type would panding the women's sports off-campus situation, citingincrease both the visibility and program; and the improvement crime in student neighbor­effectiveness. of these campus ofStepan Center into an every­hoods as his top concern.
programs. Schneider assured day facility. McDonnell added Kelley mentioned the currentthe group that the Student that a $58,000 surface for the implementation of a crime-pre­Affairs Committee would rec­Stepan Center has been or­vention plan where off-campuscommend to the Administra­dered, and will provide "top-students might be able totion a serious study in this area 
purchase alarm systems for their houses. He also cited the need for 
... Kennedy
social space for off-campus students on campus and the possibility of a food co-op to services and speak at a rally in
[continued from page 1)

help negate rising food costs. 
the morning.

Judicial coordinator John 
Ernst added that Kennedy is Greeting Kennedy at the
Plunkett said in a brief report 
committed to a 2 p.m. appear­Airport wtll be Digger Phelps, 
t~at _students a_r~ developing a 
ance in Cleveland, and because Dan Devine, Vag as Ferguson,
s1gn.ficant cymctsm about the 
of that, the Senator found it and Orlando Woolridge, Ernst
J -board system because they 
necessary to cut back the rest said. 

are not fully aware of their 
ofhis Sunday schedule--includ­"It's (the rally) still going

?Ptions. He said he hopes to 
ing planned appearances in to be pretty good,'' Anderson

mcrease the students' overall 
South Bend and at Notre

~nowledge of the system and said. "Just the fact that
Dame.

tmprove the J -boards within Digger and Devine and the
"It's not that we're short· players will be there should

the individual residence halls. 
changing South Bend or Notre generate a lot of national press

The meeting concluded with 
Dame or anything,'' Ernst

Riehle listing goals of his coverage as well as bring out
explained. "It's the same way the Irishman in Kennedy--and

administration. Riehle's main 
everywhere including Gary and

goal is the restructuring of that in itself should create a lor
Anderson--we're working hard of alumni interest around the

student government. He said 
to catch up.'' 
country.''

that student government had to 
Kennedy will be in Gary

be more direct in irs plan, and Ernst acknowledged that
Saturday afternoon, then will

he envisioned some sort of Kennedy is still behind Carter
Ry to Nebraska for a dinner

student senate alignment. He in Indiana as the May 6
that night, and then return by

said this would centralize stu· primary draws near.
jet to Anderson, Ind., late

dent government, and give 
Saturday night. The Senator "We're behind, we know,
students a sense in which 
will stay overnight in Anderson but we're doing our best to
direction SG would aim. 

and then make his way to close the gap--we've got a lot
Also at yesterday's meeting, 
South Bend. of people out working,'' Ernst
Van Wolvlear presented senior 
According to the Associated said, "but we've never under­
Dale Atkins wtth the outstand­
Press, Kennedy is expected to es~imated Caner's strength in
ing student award for her work 
spend his night in Anderson thts state because Indiana is
both in the classroom and with 
with an unemployed auto . traditillnally pretty conserva­
vanous service organizations 
worker, then attend church tive." 
on campus. 



HAVE YOUit PARTY AT~­




·····GIUSEPPE'S 
always a good time at Giuseppe's 
GIUSEPPE'S 
GIUSEPPE'S 

411'-------·-... f,--------·-...
I Patty Room \ Catty out ·l 1 Pizza Qnd 1
l··-------'can be tented J 

, _________, \ 41111·--------f/#othetgood food J 
1 

Pizza, Beet \ land Italian Food J 713 E. LQSalle
-----------f!# 

233-0951 
I 

The Observer Friday, May 2, 1980 -page 9 
A shady business? 
Registerpuzzles many 
by Phzllip] ohnson 
the necessary permits to oper­
Asked specifically about re­
ate a business there. Atchley 
cruitment at Notre Dame, 
Many Notre Dame students stated that any business that 
Shelton paused and then repli­
this winter received a form operates in the state ofTennes­
ed, "I just can't get that 
see needs one of two types of
letter from The College Regi­information tonight, there are 
ster, a publication which claim­licenses, but Shelton had too many schools to check 
ed to be "a National Yearbook neither. 
through.''
and Social Register of Promin­Atchley noted "if this ODK National Executive Dir­
ent Students and Graduates." Shelton is operating a business ector Maurice Clay stated ''we 
The letter requested that stu­in the county we'll check on absolutely will not release 
h.

dents return biographical in­1m. " names ofstudents in our organ­formation since that student Shelton was finally contacted ization for inclusion in such had been ''selected for inclu­days later, but was able to publications." Clay went on to sion in The College Register,'' provide only sketchy informa­say that ODK, to the best of his an honor accorded to ''less than tion about the book. He noted knowledge, ever made nomina­5000 students and graduates in that the book was first printed tions to The College Register. the United States and Canada.'' in 1976 and that _h\s company Representatives from ODK However, many students had been started m 1975. The and Mortar Board at Valparaiso were puzzled as to why they book is purchased by some and Purdue University, who would be selected. One re­students but its main purpose have l1ad students listed in the marked, "I've been on aca­"is recruiting officers (stc)," book, claimed to know nothing
demic probation, I'm doing added Shelton. Shelton, who about the book or Shelton. 
marginal work now, and I'm not prefaced every statement with Richard Conklin, of Notre 
involved in any extracurricular "generally," said that "Gener­Dame's Information Services, 
activities.'' Another stated, ally I do not know who we stated that Notre Dame does 
''almost all the seniors in Zahm received nominations from at not nominate students for in­
got these letters and I'm sure Notre Dame because we recruit clusion in social register books. 
that's the case across cam(>us." at so many schools." ll}cluded in The College Reg­Although biographical mclu­He continued ''we recruit ister were several letters of sion in the book was free, generally at major schools cong~atulations for students. having .a photograph published throughout the country," but One letter, from Illinois Gover­with the short bio cost the he would not be specific. nor James R. · Thompson. was student $25. Addition~ly, a Shelton was surprised to hear directed to ''Most Promment 
second form states that the that Notre Dame did not have a College and University Stu­book (less than 6 by 9 inches, copy of the book and said it dents In The Nation for 1977­106 P.ages) costs $35, but it could be found in the Library 78." No mention is made in the 
"avatlable to students and their of Congress. letter about students being in­
families at a pre-publication Shelton suggested that the cluded in the College Registerprice of$15.95 per copy." With Better Business Bureau (BBB) although Shelton insists that this information in hand, The in Knoxville, who had a copy of the letter was intended for his 
Observer decided to investigate the book, be contacted for a book. Gov. Thompson's office further. business reference. Lilian was unable to confirm this. In attempts to discover more Zian, president of the Knoxville 
Next, The Observer flew to
about Shelton and his book, The BBB, stated that she did not 
Sevier Couruy to interview
Observer made some 50 long remember ever having a copy of 
Shelton and to seek more
distance phone calls. However, the book, but noted that they 
information about The College
after these phone calls and a may have lost the book. Zion 
Register. Shelton however was 
trip to Sevier Cou~ty, Tenne~­added that she had heard of 
able to avoid and ignore report­
see, many quesuons remam Shelton and that inquiries had ers.unanswered about The College been made about The College 
Ellen Hurst, a neighbor and
Register and Shelton. Register. 
sometime employee of Shelton
In attempts to reach Shelton, She noted that she went to 
said ''the office is just like a
The Observer contacted the Gatlinburg in an attempt to 
normal apartment. Max
Pigeon Forge city offices, locate Shelton, yet was unable 
doesn't have a secretary or any
where the book is purportedly to find the publisher. Zion 
staff that I know of althou~h
published. Naomi Teaster, added ''I'm afraid it is just 
different people work for h1m
Pigeon Forge City Registrar, vanity. People like to see their 
Wilmae Ownby, of the Gatlin
had no knowledge of Maximil­names in print." 
burg Chamber of Commerce
ian Shelton, The Leumi Corpor­When Shelton was advised 
stated that "we've had inquir­
ation (Shelton's "parent" com­that the BBB did not have a 
ies about him. He's very
pany), or The College Register. copy of the book he insisted that 
secretive. About two years ago
"If he's running a business in "they must have misplaced the 
we aksed him about his book 
our city we'd like to know about book." Shelton mailed The 
but he wouldn't give us too 
it because he doesn't have a Observer a copy of the book air­much information. He broughtlicense, "-said Teaster. Teaster mail. 
his book and a press release 
added that Shelton might be Responding to inquiries re­
down. A lot of people have 
operating his business in the garding how he received nomin­
called about him. Some would 
county, outside of the city ations of students for the book, 
say that they had sent him $60 
jurisdiction. Shelton said, "generally I re­
or $65 and they would never 
The Chamber of Commerce ceive the nominations from 
hear from him again. Our 
in Pigeon Forge was unable to student groups and sometimes 
former director would not re­
provide any information about faculty.'' Shelton reluctantly 
commend him to anyone.''
Shelton or his book. stated that "ODK (Omicron 
Current Executive Director 
Paul Atchley, Sevier County Delta Kappa) and Mortar Board 
Pat Callen and his associate 
clerk Sevierville, Tenn., re­(national service organizations) vealed that Shelton did not have often nominate students.'' [continued to page 11) 


Pigeon Forge welcomes trav­elers to return to ''Smokey Mountain hospitality. '' [photo by Phillip Johnson]. 



The Observer Friday, May 2, 1980-page 10 

WSND responds to proposal of adVisoiy board with enthusiasm 

These St. Ed's residents packed their bags and moved rather give up their new puppy, as ordered by their rector. [photo by Tim .i\1cKeogh] 
~NO 
SMC 
THEATRE 
~1.ay 4th and 5th at8pm 
by Mary Fran Callahan Senior StaffReporter 
Faced with the establishment of an advisory board, WSND Station Manager Kevin Gessler yesterday said station personn­el are enthusiastic about the board and view it as a ''re­source of expertise to be tapped as needed.'' 
Former station management proposed the creation of an advisory board last September to Dean of Students James Roemer, following the contro­sery which the Radio Free ''Sex at Notre Dame'' program pre­cipitated. 
Director of Student Activities Jim McDonnell, yesterday emphasized that the board is purely an advisory one which will ''leave decisions ultimate!~ to the students.'' 
"It's an advisory board--not 
a board of directors," McDonnell commented and

SECOND SCENE PRODUCTION 
added, "the board can provide PRESENTS 
expertise and assistance to 
SCE~ESFROM 

DAVID MAl\1ET'S 
...Analysis
play 

I 
uA LIFE IN THE THEATRE" 
.. 

(An acting exercise) 
[continued from page 5] 

ADMISSION FREE WASHINGTON HALL pubhc -forum for ideas and 
.._______________________.. proposals. The CLC can then 
take those proposals to the Student Affairs office, specifi­cally, and at first, Fr. John VanW olvlear, vice president for student affairs.

DOME 1980 has arrived!! 
Former SBP Bill Roche said that this is a limited definition, and that the ''potential of the

be sure to pick up your yearbook 
CLC is somewhat limited." The fact is that the CLC (or

at the following times: 
SLC, or any similar advisory 
body) is not absolutely neces­sary for the Student Govern­
ment to do business as usual.
TUES. May 6 1:00-5:00 
Roche noted that on several occasions, especially when the

/ 
WED. MAY 7 I:00-5:00 administration ''reacted posi­tively'' to a proposal, he simply took the measure straight to the
THURS...MAYS 1:00-5:00 
dome, bypassing the CLC. There is nothing in the Student Government consti­

in Iafortune ballroom 
tution that requires all mea­sures to go through the Council. Roche said that most SG effortsJ by the nature of the

r------------------1
1 BRING IN THIS COUPON AND SAVE I organization, require both pub­lic discussion and proposals, and behind-the-scenes negoti­
: Super Savings : ation with administration offi­cials. 
He pointed to this year's change in the hall parry guide­lines as a dual effort; proposals and discussion at the CLC were

!I ff II 
combined with unseen efforts to assure that the proposals passed. 
In fact, Roche indicated, one-on-one talks with admini­
stative officials were, in his experience, sometimes more 






!GLASSES! 
I I 
productive and efficient than

I I the CLC. 
I I The CLC is, by definition and makeup, a very limited body,
I I 
It's heavy concentration of hallI I vice-presidents and rectors giYes the body a strong hall life 
I For a limited time only, bring in this coupon and I 
focus. Indeed, that was Ben­

I get $20 off any purchase of glasses. One coupon 1 der's purpose in forming the1 per customer. Present coupon at time glasses are I organization. But that focusI ordered. No other discounts applicable during I also means that some important 
measures are not appropriate fo
term of this offer. 
the CLC.

I I 
Issues like tenure and off­

I Use your Wards Charg-All. OPTICAL DEPARTMENT 1 
campus crime, Roche said, are not the most appropriate for

I I 
debate in the CLC because of

1 Quality, Value, Selection. 1 
the body's emphasis on hall life.

I I 
Further problems with its

I Scottsdale Mall291-7910 -1 makeup also limit the CLC' s students who want to learn 
, 
more. 

McDonnell expounded on the "learn more" opportunity the board will provide when he explained that broadcasting classes at NO are rather limit­ed. Students then must rely on practical experience if they are oriented towards a broadcast-Ing career. . 
McDonnell hopes to recrutt people who have backrounds in broadcasting and can offer stu­dents their knowledge. ''There are people in the South ~end area who may have had quite a bit of broadcasting experience but are now in another field," McDonnell said. 
He said, though the-exact number of board members has not yet been determined, that he is ·"seriously considering off-campus p.eople who are not connected with the University but have experience.'' 
Two men are now up for consideuuion for the advisory board, which is a voluntary job. 
Both, however, are employed by the University. 
Gary Muldoon, employed as a personnel service director for the North Dining Hall, has five 
years  of broadcasting  experi­ 
ence behind him.  
Andrew  Zand  is  an  educa­ 

tional technologist for the Center for Continuing Educa­tion. Zand possesses consider­able broadcasting expertise-­particularly in the technical aspect of the field, according to McDonnell. 
Though Gessler said the actual composition and struc­ture of the board has not yet been determined, the Advisory Board will be functional by fall. He said he is especially enmus­iastic about the board since he views it as an attempt to obliterate the frustration which stems from not being adequate­ly trained for a specific job. 
''There is a lot of student turnover, since broadcasting is on-the-job training. 
scope. VanWolvlear and Dean ofStudents James Roemer each have a vote on final proposals, along with six rectors. Ironi­cally, the purpose of the Coun­cil is to advise VanWolvlear on campus issues. Thus the advised has a vote in what will come under his consideration. 
By abstaining in the recent keg proposal vote, Van Wolv­lear effectively killed the pro­posal, and did not have to "officially" consider it. It tak~s a two-thirds majority to approve a proposal, and send it to the student affairs office. Eleven voted in. favor of the keg proposal, six against, and Van Wolvlear abstamed. 
"Something's wrong with the body when it can't pass some­thing the majority of its mem­bers want," Roche said re­cently, in reaction to the keg vote. "Logically, it doesn't make sense for the adviser to have a vote on what goes to his desk.'' 
Votes such as the keg pro­posal results further cloud the purpose of the CLC. Officially, the CLC did not pass a matter it had spent months debating and planning~ Thus the issue was never officially a proposal sent to VanWolvlear. Instead, the matter died a quiet death in the CLC and that organization was blamed as "ineffective." 
But even if the keg proposal had passed the CLC Van Wolvlear still would have, inall probability, turned the issue. The CLC is there only to advise, and, as Roche said, "They (the administration) don't have to take it." 
That is probably the major source of frustration with the CLC and Student Government in general. Consistent with NotreDame's "in loco paren­tis" philosophy, the admini­stration always has the final word and on controversial mat­ters, that word it often "no." 
Riehle has charged that the SG packs coherence, and said that ''There is no central unit where student government comes together.'' His Student Senate idea, articulated at last week's Board ofCommissionars meeting, would be the main body of student representation and would allocate funds. Both those tasks are assigned to the Board of Commissionars under the present constitution. (Inci­dentally, the Board is also "the central unit where student go­
,,
vernment comes together, 
under the present system). 
In any case, the Senate, or any other body, is likely to have only "advisory" powers, like the CLC. An expanded mem­bership may enable it to deal with matters other than hall life, but the administration probably will not allow any s_tudent group to have legisla­uve powers. 
Thus, if students expect tne 
new body, if it is formed, to 
dictate policy, they are liable to 
be just as frustrated with it as 
with the CLC. 

Because students change.of­
fices every year, restructunng 
of an organization is common­
place (The Obseroer, for in­
stance, is no stranger to restruc­
tured editorial boards and de­
partments). And the hope is 
always that a new body or a new 
way of doing business will lead 
to success. 

A body that is expanded, in 
both scope and membership, 
may involve more students m 
SG, and may lead to more 
enthusiasm about SG's goals. 
But one of the major prob­lems in restructurin~ any stu­dent organization IS a time crush. From the time he is elected, a new SBP is faced with a time crisis; there is only a year to run the student government, make changes in NO life and the SG, and attend classes. 
That, obviously, is not an excuse for not dealing with some issues, and few SBPs have complained. But the fact remains that the time spent on internal matters takes away from time that could have been used in other ways. 
But in dealing with the administration, no student body will be able to legistlate policy. That inability to dictate change is a major source of frustration with the CLC, and probably will be a major source of frustration yvith any group which replaces lt. 
.. ~ .. "',. ..

·------------~-----~ 
' , r, ~ r • :;.,·,.·.,·.;;;;;~·.-.-.,~-":·;;.·;.,·~-,->-J=J 1.".'_'.t 
0 
"' 6

L , ·. ·• · , ! ; : J I t 1 1/ •. fl.~-t t, ~1fo a1fo ~ r ... II.*« a.." -~ .. •-~"• •10 7 • • • ~ -a . -• . ' 
' 
&
a 
=
-


•· 
'rhe Observer Friday, May 2, 1980 -page 11 

... Analysis 

[continued from page 51 
that really belong to the Stu­
dent Assembly. We just don't 
have a voice in making import­
am decisions," a Student Ass­
embly member commented. 
Board members include the 
Student Body President, the 
Vic_e President for Student 
Affair~, the Vice President for 
Student Affair·-. and eight de­
partmental commissioners. 
Class and hall presidents also 
participate in deterlJlining 
Board rulings. This broad 
decentralization, however, has 
caused stirrings of discontent 
and a lack of communicarion 
among Board members. 
Last October, SBP Pia Trigiani warned her board that the lack of commllnication be­tween members would result in the deterioration of student g~vernment. Apparently cer­talfl members d1d not under­stand the operations of the Board and therefore could not fully execute the duties of thetr positions. 
The Student Assembly was abolished by Assembly mem­bers. last week. . This action raBes many quesuons concern­ing the future and direction of su.: dent representation. 
The assembly was composed of the SBP, the VP for Aca­demic Affairs, the VP for Student Affairs an<~ one repre­sentative per lCO residents per hall and one representative r>er 10(1 off-campus and da~' stu­dents. 
Kathy Sweeny, -sBP-elect, views the dissolution of the Assembly as a major step toward a more effective stu­dent government. Sweeney feels that the Board of Govern­ance is·a "more central loca­tion'' than the Student Assem­bly. _ I 
''The Board has a varit'ty of people working on it and therefore the flow of ideas is always constant and chang­ing," she said. "We wouldn't have to worry about an over­lapping ofideas from a student assembly." 
Both Sweeney and Trigiani feel that by abolishing the Student Assembly, the coor­dination of activtties will be easier under the control of the Board of Governance. 
''Activities planning will be more direct. We won't have to bother with rearranging sche­dules in the halls and we'll still get feedback from students because the class and hall presidents will be present at every meeting," Sweeney said. 
The direction of SMC Stu­dent Government according to Sweeney, is headed towards the strengthening of the Hall councils and the Board of Governance. Sweeney feels that by uniting the hall councils and the Board, more campus issues can be directly address­ed. 
''Student Assembly is obso­lete. By strengthening the HC's and the Board, less confusion will take place and issues that relate to the stu­dents will be filtered through by the hall councils,'' Sweeney said. 
Although the Student Ass­embly was abolished, Sweeney and her administration are uncertain as to the possibiltiy of another organization to take 

OBSERVER PARTY! 

at GIUSEPPE'S This Saturday! Starts at 8jmt Transportation will 
be providedon the hour 


the place of an assembly. ''A committee will be formed over the summer to investigate the structure of student ass­embly and whether it would be feasible to include such an organization in next year's administration,'' Sweenev commented. 
According to Boyle, there are no hall judicial boards at Saint Mary's, because no dis­tinctions are made between hall and college offenses. 
INSTA"lT CREDI J 
DICK'S  "(st;.\  
J~  SERVICE Member American  
E. CORBY  Oi~~btor  

7/1liiwRECKER & / 1;1 ROAD SERVICE 
MOTOR TUNf.UP ~ 
BRA~:::tCE ~ DIAL 
ALIC.NMENT 234-0707 
D•ck /(ruk · Own@r 11()2 So. Bend A\'c. 
South Benrl. l nci 46617 

• • • College Register 
[continued from page 9] 
Tony Spinelli were also unable to enrlorse him, saying ''we just don't have any information about him or his publication. He's not a member of the Chamber.'' 
Paul Atchley, Sevier County Clerk, then told The Observer that Shelton purchased a busi­ness license on March 14, just two days after The Observer's first interview with the pub­lisher. Atchley added that Shelton later paid for back business licesnse to 1976 in the first week of April. Shelton has yet to purchase a permit in Pigeon Forge. 
According to Public Works Director Richard Harmon, Shelton needs to get a license if he operates an office. Hamon added that Shelton was operat­ing in a residential portion of the city and needed special permission from the zoning commission to contiuued oper­ating. Harmon said that city 
..... 

officials would look into the matter. 
Shelton also refused to dis­close the names of any business­recruiters who purchase his book, citing "business ethics" as the reason for not disclosing the names. 
, Much remains a mystery about the 39-year-old Shelton and his publication. Research into the company's activities will continued by Pigeon Fqrge city officials, and the U.S. postal authorities ''to deter­mine if a fraud may have been committed. 
Meanwhile, Max Shelton will continue to collect "nomina­tions'' and wi!l continue to send letters to ''prominent'' stu­dents. The next editor of The College Register is scheduled to be available in March of 1981. 

·CANOE RENTAL 
12 mile~ trom campus GROUP RATES 
~-TRANSPORTATION AVAJLAliLE 
----.-----:=----=========~~ 

---------·~ ____..... 
Float the St. Joe or the fast Dowagiac
~ 

Lail6lC../6Y:>-2250 for re~ervattons 
THE SPORT CORNER 
320 N. Redbud Tr., Buchanan, Mich. 
~----------------------------------­
Atlas Tire Sale 
Radia/CXV 
Br 78-13  -$43.16  
Er 78-14  -$49.50  
Fr 78-15  -$55.95  

Plus F.E. T. &.State tax & Recappable tires 

Other Sizes at Low Prices ~~ ~e Atlas Disc cX'e.~,.:,~~a~~Brakes Special
e,v.~ 

~ ~ ~,._,._. American Cars -$29.95 ~\'~'0° Foreign Cars -$24.95 
\;_,,,\et 10%Discount on All ATLAS Products 


Free Oil Change 

fwith tune up Atlas-parts/ 

r-----------------,
1couPON Good for I !I Car Wash & Wax !I 

l~~..:.~~--~~~~~~J 
j 
l 
? 
I
I 
\ 




} 

It was a hard decision to make for all involved. The call for responsibtlity that pervades this institution could not be ignored; then agazn, the prospects for enjoyment were extremely enticing. Everyone had to ask themselves, ''Should I do schoolwork, or should I go enjoy An Tostal?' 'Fortunately, or unfortunately, An Tostal won out in most cases. With cooperation from the weather, the enjoyment was there to be had, and it was not hard to find. There was a plethora ofactivities occuring almost non-stop; activities that were sincerely dzfjicult endeav_ors, andactivities which were nothing more than pure nonsense. Yet, there lies the secret ofsuccess ofAn Tostal. Nonsense is not only allowed, but required. If an outside observer were to arrive at the mudpits on a certain Saturday in the not too distant past, he would undoubtedly question the sanity ofthe participants and the integrity of the University. For four days, the normally quiet, conservative Notre Dame students were able to transcend/he tyrannical academic atmosphere of the University. Andno one could interfere; and no one did. An Tostal provided that necessary break for aft students before finals. It gives the students that final chance to really enjoy themselves without feeling guilty for actually having fun and a good time. 
John Macor 


Do I hear a bid higher than the $100 offered by the It may not be the Kentucky Derby, but it 'j man in the white collar. 


)_ I 





• 



I can't believe he drank the whole thing. 
skt!ls and chtldhood destres to wallow tn the mire 




\ 
; j 
1 
1 
1 

1 
4 
I 
I 
; 


--~--~--------------------------~--­
Features 

This column completes my tenth year of wn.ting for the Observer. I am g~rateful to all my editors, past and present, for having given me this extraordinary opportunity. 
When God created the world, He 
thought of all the power it would take 
to send billions of. stars spinning 
through the space of a variety of 
firmanents, He said: ''Power comes 
naturally''; and a forenoon, He had 
created as many stars as he would 
ever need. When He thought of the 
multitudes of shapes and forms of 
creatures necessary to His world to 
mak it delightful, He thought: "Let 
omnipotence and imagination play a 
game together," and instantly mven­
ted beings -winged, finned or 
clawed -that would rove the sky, 
the sea, and the earth; and as a 
footnote of color, He planted gar­
dens. 
When the Lord God decided on 
sons and daughters whomHe would 
app-oint as caretakers, He realized: "I 
must love them very much, and they 
must always know that I love them.'' 
Loving, for God, is the air He 
breathes, and He thought; "It's no 
problem." He didn't know how much 
love was going to cost Him. 
So God created Adam and Eve; and 
though they were made of dust, He 
shaped them in the likeness of the 
glory of His only-begotten Son. He 
was happy because they were so 
beautiful, and He loved them as He 
love Himself. 
One evening, when God came into 
Paradise to get away from the 
hymn-singing at the Great White 
Throne, He heard Adam and Eve 
quarrelling. 
"It's your fault," shouted Adam. 
"No, it's not," shouted back Eve. 
"You're the head man around here. 

You've got the title, so you take the 
responsibility.'' The argument was 
becoming very bitter. 
God thundered: "Peace." Imme­
diately, there was silence in Para­
dise, for even the birds has stopped 
singing. God said: ''Where are you 
anyway? Why are you hiding?" He 
had to coax them to come out from 
behind the shrubs. 
Finally, felling very ashamed, Adam and Eve stood before God. He said: "Now see what sin has done to you. You preferred listening to my ancient enemy to keeping your Father's law, and I'm sorry for what must happen," 
"Are you going to punish us, Lord?" said Adam nervously. 
''Are you going to turn us back into dust?" said Eve_ Adam nudged her viciously, as a warning not to suggest such a terrible notion to their Maker .. 
"You've punished yourself," said God. "You ve lost your innocence, and I can't give it back to you. Now you will have to leav Paradise, andlife Is going to be very hard.'' 
"Where will we go, Lord?" said Adam. 
''There's a world out there, beyond the gate that the Seraphim are guarding with flaming swords,'' God said. ''It's a good world, full of loveliness, but it's going to hurt you, and I can't help it." 
"That's alright, Lord." said Adam, as though he was forgiving God for being helpless. ''Will we see you around sometime?'' 
'I'll keep in touch," ! never said I didn't love you." 
Watching them leave Paradise, their ongmal beauty only slightly diminished, God thought: "They're just at the beginning of the shabbi­ness that time will harm them with. I guess this is what love means: cari 
about a creatur~ even after he looks 
like something the cat dragged in." 
God did keep in touch. He made a 
covenant with Abraham, promisin~ 
love and fidelity to Abraham's fami­
ly; through Moses He gave them the 
Law, so that Abraham's family could 
know the ways to be faithful to Him. 
He gave them the judges, the kings, 
and the prophets; all of them told 
Adam's children that God continued 
to worry about them like a father; 
through His angels, God knew that 
Adam's children could scarcely care 
less. · 
The Lord thought: "Being God, I mustn't be discouraged, though lov­ing creatures is harder than I knew it would be, because they think only of themselves. I must try harder to love them better, that's all." 
God's only-begotten Son, belong­ing to Him likf'" the truth of his own Being, said: "Seeing me, they will see the love in their Father's face. As I am your Son in heaven, let me go and serve them as their brother on earth.'' 
God, taken aback by the demand on Him, said: "Must I love them that much-·;»" 
Mercy, the breadth of perfect tenderness belonging to God's heart, reminded God that He had promises to keep. 
God anxiously awaited the birth of His Son into the world; He saw His Son bearing witness to the Father's love, enduring all outrage with a gentleness identical to His own. Darkness covered the heavens as God brroded over the cross while His Son suffered and died. He cried out with heartbreak: ''How could I know that love would hurt so much?" 
When the Son, glorious from the victory of the Resurrection, returned to heaven for His Father's embrace, 
Friday, May 2, 1980 -page 14 
-Rev. Robert Griffin 
God said: "Making stars and crea­tures was a way of having fun. Ordering the stars in the universe as as easy as keeping house. But keeping love alive m hearts that choose to die costs even God the only wounds He knows. In your death, Son, I have finally given man as much love as he will ever need.'' 
God's only-begotten Son hung His head in silence. 
God, anxious to understand, said: "My Son, after the love winning redemption, what further love is needed?'' 
''Love, to prove itself, needs often to show it is there," He replied. "It may take more than a single cross for God to prove Himself faithful, until man is convinced he is finally loved '' 
God, thinkin8 of how many crosses 
-His son must d1e upon, meditated on love as a mystery of His own making, that leads heaven to go much further than it ever chose to go. Whether human or divine, once we have promised love, there's no end m sight. Even now, in jungles and in deserts, there's the noise of a hammer driving nails into wood. 
God listens, and is sad, a wiser God now than He was a~ creation. 
I will be saying Mass for the beginning of May today, Friday May 2, at 5:15 in the grotto. If you're in New York, please come and visit at SL Joseph's Church, 371 Sixth Avenue, Greenwich Village; phone: 212-741-1274. Goodbye for the sum­mer from Darbatius (Secundus) O'Gill and me. We never said we would forget you. 
father Griffin, University Chaplain, zs a Features columnift 

]oyso .'Fat 'Stagedin Moreau 

Fat, a trilo_gy of one-act comedies, written and directed by Saint Mary's junior Adri Trigiani, will be per­formed May 6 at 8 p.m. in the L1ttle Theatie, Moreau, in conjunction with Professor Miles Coiner's Directing II class. 

Trigiani, a Theatre major, promis­es the evening to be full of "relent­less comedy.'' She dubbed her program Fat not only because several characters have weight problems but because the plays ''deal with who fits in -and wh~t we do to ourselves to fit in. Fat is a concept." The Pitter Patter ofLittle Dancing 
0ake 

Feet  concetns  a  natural  childbirth  
center  built  around  the  theme  of  
Broa?way _musicals,  run  by  a  tap­ 

dancmg director Morrissey) and his wife, Boots (Mary Jo Hicks). The couple encourage their clients to practice breathing exercises to "Singmg in the Rain." 
Pajamas revolves around a pajama party ''thrown by the perfect teen­ager (Mary Jo Hicks) for all her friends who have social defects." 
The third and last play, Damn Mr. Gimbel portrays the shopping trip of a middle-aged couple (Greg D' Ales­sandro and Li~aJ aquez) trying to find a dress that wilf fit the overly-ample wife. "It's an introspective look on fat," according to T rigiani. The saleslady will be played by Chris Foy. 
Molly Woulfe 
,• 

. Greg Hayes will conduct the open­Trigiani claims her cast are "com.ic 
mg monologue to Fat. Admission isgeniuses,'' and especially commends free and all are encoura~ed to attend.
Mary Jo Hicks as "one of the most A number of other origmal plays will dynamic characters I've seen in the be performed next week by otherdepartment -her comedy timing is 
orofessional. '' members of the Directing II class. For rimes, check posters. 


'·! 


I I I I I 
' 

. /
American Express hasn't changed its application qualifi ... cations for graduating students during the current credit crisis. 
That's because the American Express®Card isn't a credit card. It's a charge card. There's no revolving, open...end credit. You are expected to pay your bill in full every month. So with the Card, you don't get in over your head. 
You use your head. American Express is continuing its special application plan for graduating students. If you have a $10,000 job (or the . promise ofone) lined up, yol] can apply for an American Express Card right now. You'll need the Card for everything from business lunches to vacations, from buying clothes to buying theatre tickets. You'll have new responsibilities after graduation. The 
, American Express Card will help you manage them. 
To apply for a Card, just pick up an application at one of the displays on campus. Or you can call the toll... free number800...528...8000,and ask fora special student application. 
The American Express®Card. Don't leave school without it. 

. .... 
. ..r.. • _,_ •. t \ ' , ·• 
' . ,.. . . .. ~ ;' ....... 

Friday, May 2, 1980 -page 16
Editorials 
. j 

Notre Dame tenure: 
Answers Demanded 
All over campus, ,wherever one walks, one hears a discussion which begins in surprised tones and suddenly degenerates into a sneering cynicism. It is a discussion with a recurring theme and a familiar plot line: "I've had 'a course with a great professor, I've heard of a course with « fine teacher, but he and she will not be here ·next year." Why? 
They wiJl not be here because they did not receive tenure... A few, of course, were ftred; a few others, sickened by· the general forced exodus oftheir peers, have simply declined to·. stay, But most will depart due to that mysterious process by ?J"htch Notre Dame keeps irs faculty pure and about which no one will talk -tenure. 
The reason these professors are denied tenure, we are told. is confidential. It is a matter so confidential not even the ~ spurned teacher has access to it. Yet, questions surely remain to be answered. In fact, they demand to be answered. 
\X'hy, for instance, are so many of those teachers who are leaving women? Why does ·Notre Dame have only one tenured woman faculty member not working in an administrative capacity? Why are no women receivif;lg ten.ure this year-the very year that Notre Dame defends nself ill a sex descrimination suit against halfof all the women faculty? . 
For al! those administrators. and appointment committee members who smugly assert that the rejected tenure applicant lacked the proper research projects, the kind of research which brings prestige and dollars to ,t.his fine msritution, a new set of questions is in order: Who is responsible for such a notion . of acceptibility? What constitutes proper research ,...-dollars and status alone? Where shall students go to find advice, help and consultation while t};leir faculty is hidden among the tall stacks? When will che Universtty cease in their quest for prestige and direct their energies toward building a community in which young men and women learn· mdependence of thought and resouces for action? And finally, why must these questions be asked at all in a University which professes to be a "liberal educator" and ''Christian"? 
This is a long list of questions, but it is a list that must be answered forthrightly so that students may begin to take the same pride in theacademic side of Notre Dame which most take in the athletic side. Students are a transient breed and, as such, some would say their questions are unimportant. Students can live with such paternalistic insults. In the meantime, students will have lost some fine professors. 
Doonesbury 
50 YOfJ stt, MR. RtlJFtRN, 

TN& ARE MY "RIGHT 7() t.lf&"atPP!~ ov~ 7Jitt?£15"6tJN 
Cf}f{{R.0/..,11 I 771& so­Vlt:r THR£AT,"ANP 7HE BOX YOIJ'V& 
/ 60T 15.. tJH.. 
by Garry.Trudeau 

P. 0. Box 
Jones commended 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to thank Avis B. 
Jones for the calling of our 
attention to a disease of which 
the BUITS v·s. US basketball 
game may only be one symp­
tom. I was a spectator for part 
of that game as well as one of 
the Jayne Kennedy games, and 
I came up with the same 
conclusion, namely, even the 
cheering sections were split 
according to color. 
Having been a member of a minority in Uganda for fifteen years (for the last two years, three whites in a county with a population of 100,000), I can appreciate the identity problem that our 2~ here may be having, a fact that the 98% could never understand. For­tunately I lived with a most hospitable people who reached out to me in many ways even in" difficult conditions which en­dangered their own lives. 
Racism, unfortunately is part of our American heritage. Not only occasional events such as the BUITS -US_ game but also the thoughtless comments 
eruptin~ from half conscious attitudes, humerous to some, bitterly stinging to others, should sensitze us all to this glaring American problem. And though at times we may not like to admit it, Notre Dame is part of America, even if, as Avis writes. some attend Mass. 
Thanks again to her for bringing this problem to our attef1tion. \'\'here do we go from 11ere? 
Fr. jim Ferguson Chaplain Mom'ssey Hall 
' Nuke the Whales' 
Dear Editor: 
In reference to the April 23 Observer article concerning Earth Day activities, I am personally repulsed by the ig­norance and shallow-minded­ness of the comment in which my character was referred to as asinine by an "Earth Day worker." I admit to clearly expressing my opinion in the "Nuke the Whales" sign, but if the people who so self-right­eously declare their own open­
nesshypocritically cannot accept a harmless joke, then this world is not worth living in. Person­ally, I am nauseated by the people who are so convinced of their own inherent intelligence that they feel they have the right to force their own opinions on me. If these self-proclaimed saviors of the world would give up their electric styling brush­es, mixers and high voltage amplifiers for outdoor con­certs, maybe nuclear power wouldn't be necess-ary. 

As for your precious little whales, all species are moving toward extinction and man's intervention cannot alter the inevitable. They are ugly ani­mals anyway, and I personally back the "Save the Plankton" movement. With all the starva­tion in the world today, I feel greater results could be gained by funding research into human use of plankton as a food source rather than letting overweight whales gorge themselves on this potenually valuable re­source. 
] effSchloemer 201 Alumni Hall 
Mancuso replies 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to reply to the character assasination of myself in Frank Johnson's April 29 letter to The Observer. First of all, Mr. Johnson, I do not wear deck shoes or any other type of preppie attire as you implied and I already own a leather jacket. I come from Joliet, Ill., a blue-collar town full of fteel n1i!ls, :.:hemic<ll plants, refine­nes, and other good things. I went to the public high school with 2 500 other students of all races, creeds, and social classes and thoroughly enjoyed my years there. As for the country club, my family doesn't belong to one; I use the public pool and golf course like a host of other people and sc;e nothmg wrong wit~ it, contrary to your impli­cattons. 
As to what I should review, I dislike John Denver and wouldn't subject my worst en­emy to one of his concerts. My personal tastes tend more toward Hard Rock, such as Nugent, The Who, etc. But on one point I will stand. I have been to literally hundreds of concerts in my lifetime, Mr. 
Johnson, a good number of them at Chicago's Aragon Ball­room, also known as the "Up­town scunge pit." Of all the concerts I have seen though, the crowd at the recent Nugent concert was the mangiest crowd I have ever seen at a concert in my life, whether they were students, "townies"(a word I never used), or martians. My comment as to the number of students there, were based on information concerning the number of tickets sold at the student union ticket office. We may not be superior, Mr. 
Johnson, but there is a definite 
difference in the way we handle ourselves in public. 
I stand my ground! 
Mzck Mancuso 


USteam member responds to pre­judice accusation 
Dear Editor: 
I am quite upset · over the implications raised by A vis Jones in her editorial. Every year during boo~stq_re there seems to be a game publicized as a black versus white confron­tation, generally with• both teams comprised of football players. As a member of US, I resent the fact that people are describing our game against BUITS in this manner. Even if so inclined, I can't imagive our team capable of waging a physical battle against BUITS. The thought is entirely point­less. We had no intention, but to play basketball. As it turned out the game was rather physi· cal and sometimes out of hand, but I refuse to believe that the intentions of our opponent:-; were any different from out own. 
I also canoN pv ar ~' bbm, on the fans. ~·1:::. Jones stated in her editorial that since there are only 150 black students 0>1 campus (2q'o of the student body) and most all are friends, they were justified in giving their entire support to BUlTS. I'm· not sure I am in entire agreement with her argument, hut for now I will make two points. First of all, we had a very loyal and vociferous fol­lowing of several hundred for all the late games in the rournament. Anyone who at­tended either of om two later ~ames found the crowd equally as loud (and obnoxious). Secondty, Wt' were underdogs throughout the tournament. A large portion of the crowd at the game in question came after the completion of other /ames on nearby courts, an arrived when we trailed by as much as 20-17. I believe it · is only human nature to pull for the underdog during such circum­stances. I simply can't accept the argument that they were cheering for us simply because we were white. 
. 

I hope everyone understanqs that I am not trying to deny the existence of predujice on this campus. I am also not denying that some fans were out of line at the game. I do believe that the number of such cases was extremely small and included fans from each team. In my opinion, the whole matter was blown cotally out of proportion, and I hope it is a situation soon forgon-en and never repeated. 
Bob Fagan 416 Keenan Hall 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Edltor-ln-Chzef ............ Paul Mullaney SMC NPws Editor ........... Mary Leavitt Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Managing Editor .............. Mark Rusr Sports Edztor ............... Beth Huffman The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the srudents of t~e Features Edrtor .............. Kate Farrell
Editona/s Editor ........... Mike Onufrak 
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. It does nor necessanly FeaTures Editor ............ Molly Woulfe
Senior Cof'J Editor ......... Lynne Daley 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news 1~ r_eporred Photo Edt tor .................. John Macor
News Editor . . . . . . . . . Pam Degnan 
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opm1on _of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are rh_e v1ews News Editor..... ... Tom jackman Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges 
News Editor . . . . . . . ...... John McGrath Advertising Manager .. Mike Holsinger
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of rhe c~mmunny, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through leners, as encouraged. SA1C Executive Edztor .. Margie Brassil Production Manager .... Ann Monaghan 
. .. 11-~·· • • .. ... ... . • • .. ... • ... .. .. ...----. . ... . -.-.. . . . . 
.-' . . ... ' ' . . . 
-·-.... "" ----.......... 
'fhe Observer Friday, May 2, 1980 -page 17 
) year designed to provide "basic collegiate studies" (definition from 1979·80 Bulletin Of
Education·at stake: ND liberal arts 
Information) to all freshmen. Far from this design, however, are the current requirementsRosemary Mills which force freshmen to choose their collegesIn his quest for building the greatest Catholic University, the liberal education-the basis on tong before the completion of their first year at _university . in ~h.e . world, Fr. Hesburgh has Notre Dame. The only college which does not
which a univerisity is started -offered by Notre 
succeeded m ratsmg what the decision makers of place requirements in the freshman year is the
Dame has detenorared. This deterioration isNotre Dame decreed the amount necessary to evident in two specific programs: the Freshman College of Arts and Letters -the very school 
re~ch. this goal.. Yet_, they have confused the which should be the basis of a liberal education. 
Year of Studies, and the College of Arts and 
bu~Jd~ng of a umverstty with the construction of Letters. What i~ more unfortunate is that the lack of butldmgs and the endowins ofchairs. And while assertiveness by this Coltege does not stop in
The .corner~ton: of knowledge is a liberal
the ~D f~miJy, is bein~ gtven a false sense of freshman year. The Core Course, the reformed
education. It ts thts type of educatiop whic.h is
secunty In the phystcal expansion of the version of the Collegiate Seminar program is
the purpose of the Freshman Year of Studies, a 
required ofall Arts and Letters sophomores. The purpose for this class is to provide the basis of a liberal education. Ironically, the College is
NDroom picks North andSouth 
trying to teach in one class what the students should be studying over a period of four years.
Michael Onufrak 

Meanwhile, the other colleges, which have The month of May means many things to 
str-ipped freshmen of their chance to broaden the
Through the simple, logical process of math­
orientation of their minds, require no such class. the bookstore to see if the price has increased on 
students at Notre Dame. It means a walk over to ematical elimination, when his turn to pick And, as they progress in their collegiate career,
would come, he would just take the immber 
students in engineerMl.g, business, and sciencethose ND moving boxes. It means the occasional 
closest to the top of his "list." I admitted to him, 
gravitate toward the ''jock"· arts and lettersfrisbee of softball tossed on the quad. It means 
after perusing the ''list'', that his method was 
courses to fulfill their required philosophy andfinals, it means rain instead of snow, and it 
definately the most logical formula I ha.C ever 
theology as well as senior year electives. 
means the Blue-Gold ~arne (Green-White 
heard of for dealing with the room-pick 
· The arguments against the strengthening ofgame?) in the football stadtum. But most of all, 
phenomenon. I congratulated him and retired 
the College of Arts and Letters faculty .and
tf you live in a dorm, it means room-picks. 
to my room determmed to blindly throw a dart at 
courses may be strong but depend on oneI tell freshman that room-picks are when you 
the hall diagram and take whichever room fate 
assumption -. that college is the level offind out who your friends are: no one. 
dictated. 
ed.. ucatio.-9 at which one. is prepared for ~ career.
Having lived in Flanner and Sorin, I feel that I 
Of course, I didn't do that. But I didn't make 
The destre to be tramed translates mto thehave a unique perspective on this collegiate 
up a Jist either. I weighed all the plusses and 
realistic desire for money, which is wellphenomenon. And, I think, that if Arlo Guthrie 
minuses: proximity to the rector and assistant 
evidenced bQth in today's world and at Notrewere to mention the room-picks of either of these 
rector, proximity to the floor RA, proximity to 
Dame where monied alumni and friends supportdorms to you, he would use the word 
some members of the dorm's less-rational 
. ~e growt~ ofthe University. Training~ however,"masacree" in much the same way he used that 
population, and proximity to food sales. After­
word to describe another chaotic mess. Whether 
lS s.ometh.mg that c.an b<: done just as..• e.as•.·ly _with
wards, I ended up choosing a cozy little turret 
monkeys as men. The kind ofeducauon whtch ait be the towers, (the big, modern cities of ND) 
room where I am told Paul Hornung and other 
university offers, deals with expansion andor a dorm like Sorin (the small town, some would 
Sorin Luminaries have resided before me. On 
challenge of the mind and the person:say ghetto of ND), room-picks bring out the 
the whole, I've been satisfied with my choice. 
The problems at· Notre Dame are nodifferent·worst element in everyone. The reason being, I But everything has changed this year. 
than those experienced by univerisities across to determine your spot in the hall for the When I made th..e big decision to move 
suppose, that room-picks are that one-time shot the country. To go beyond comparison with Ot~er colleges,·. however, IS the element of
upcoming academic year. This sense of perman­off-campus I relesated myself to just a seat on ency somehow summons that ruthlessly compet­the side-line at thts year's room-picks. In a way, 
umqueness which Notre Dame needs to achieve itive, ambitious demon which so many of us here which I am unable to articulate, I kind of miss 
Hesbutgh's dream, Physically, ND i~ beginnipg at ND are susceptible to, ri~ht to the surface. them. But not forever. My off-campus house has 
to develop · better student facilities. That Consider my freshman expenence two years ago three bedrooms, and my housemates and I will 
students should. know. mote when .they leaye· in Flanner. decide over the weekend who gets to occupy 
college .than they did when they. arrived is Two Mays ago I wanted to execute the which. I've made this list...... . 
unquesnonable. atall, 5cpool~. that they should complicated and touchy maneuver known as 
also be. secure 10 beltevtnfJ they ·have grown as "swttching floors" in Flanner. One early May Michael Onufrak is editorials editor of The 
J?~ople .should be unquestionable at this univer· morning a knock came at my door. To this day I Observer. By meeting four consecutive Thurs­
.suy .. Liberal .education is the challenge which don't know who it was, but in a thtck day night deadlines, he is beginning to convince 
provtdes the tn.teUectual gr<?wth. ·.·· . . .·.·····• Mediterranean accent he asked me which room I himself that he will be able to write a weekly 
.·Rosemary Mills is the:former Observer etlitor-i#~ 
thief, · · "'· ·
wanted for the coming year. I muttered a column next Fall. 
f\'t r .;.. ·..... ·..
number, and without a word he vanished into the air. The next day all of the freshmen were called down to the Flanner pit and the room-pick Ayatollah, as I later learned he was called, 
Equalbasketballcoveragefor women
announced which of the freshmen had survived the labyrithine Flanner point system and were getting the room they desired. The rest were told who their new roommates were and to which 
Gary Grassey 
dorm they were being transferred. As you can faltering legs, the senior economics major from 
Editor's Note: This column was to have
probably guess, a few of the freshmen panicked Birmingham, Mich., used her knowledge of the
appeared in the Observer Sports Section,
and the Ayatollah had to restore order by 
to off with
liowever, it was decided that it might be more game fend opponents superior
adminstering traditional Islamic punishments to 
positioning on the boards. . ,
appropriately received on the edz"torial page.
the offended freshmen. When I see these ''Beth got us really psyched and. mouvare~,
Remember that parody may well be the highest 
maimed and scarred former hall-mates on the said Matvey, who led the Blowoffs m all sconng 
form ofcompliment. Well, one of the highest.
Quad it brings a rear to my eye even today. 
and rebounding departments. ''She couldFortunately, probably through the influence of barely walk, but whenever we got down she'd
BEHIND THE ACC Even the most fearless of
the imam himself, I was bestowed with the room 
be screaming and hitting people trying to
gamblers would have hesitated to put money on
I desired. The best proof of this, is that I was psyche us up.''
B.J. 's Blowoffs in the women's division of
able to type this article today. 
In the quarterfinals and the semts, the
Bookstore Basketball. Just take a look at the
Last year, at Sorin, where you would think the Blowoffs came close to elimination beforeroster.
procedure would be fairly informal and laid­rallyin~ from 19-18 deficits on both occassions. 
Beth Aries--grad student and token old
back, the situation was a lot worse. In contrast to Each time Beth Aries' free throw shooting was
person. She was a veteran of Bookstore games 
Flanner, where one unknown and anonymous crucial. For Jones, the near defeats were
past, but her kamikazee tendenci~s on the court 
figure decides the fate of the many, Sorin almost too close for comfort.
almost won her a bed at St. Joseph's hospital
approaches room-picks in a democratic fashion. 
"I've been doing this for three years," sheon more than one occasion.
There are diagrams of rooms, rooms reserved said after Friday's semifinal win against J.D.'s
Beth Jones--captain of the team and member
for freshmen, rooms that used to be doubles that Callgirls, "and I've never co.me this far." .
of the·-walking wounded with her slowly
are now going to be triples, rooms that are going Twisted ankles and spramed knees as1de,
disintegrating ankle and knee joints. Better
to be storage areas, storage areas that are going Jones would not be denied as she hobbled her
known as the R.A. on second floor Farley,
to be rooms, and the rector's room which is way around the court in Sunday's final. In the
Jones has played in three Bookstore
about the only one you can't pick. At Sorin, the last half of the 21-15 victory over TotalClass,5he 
tournaments, but never come up with a winner.
almost-human Ayatollah is replaced by the ..... was relegated to bringing the ball upcourt forMade the difference inside.
all-knowing, all-powerful computer print out 
the Blowoffs so she wouldn't have to trek the
Shari Matvey--freshman standout on the
sheet. No one, not even the hall clerk who entire length of the makeshift outdoor arena
varsity b~sketball team (need more be said?) 
prepares the computer program, knows how the Joy One--A newcomer to the Bfowoffs in this behind the ACC.
order of "who picks when" is determined. This • The Blowoffs were never the favorite, and
year's tourney. Could shoot when she had to.
is the anonymous factor, which the Flanner their small group of hard core followers and
Showed it with a 4-for-4 shooting in the finals
Ayatollah represents, that is extremely essential rooters--) on Misch, Bill Roche, Rosemary
and a clutch free throw in Friday's overtime
to the rendering of fair room-l?icks. 
Mills, Christie Little, and Mark
semifinal match.
. Last year, I actually was gotng to plan which Mahan--were usually outhollered, alt.hough
Kim Hewitt--Although only a . last minute
room I would try to pick ahead of time. I gave 
never outwitted. Yet the f1ve
replacement for Laura DonneJly, Hewitt
up this idea when I met a friend of mine in gal squad banded coget_her ~n~ pull~d away
probably saved the title for the Blowoffs with
Sorin 's front hallway staring intently at the hall with a remarkable champaonshtp m the1r hands. 
her ballhandling ability under pressure and her
diagram. In his hand I noticed a legal pad "Hey, I'm not the half player I used to be,"
ace bandage for Jones' knee.
completely covered with three-digit numbers Jones insisted sipping a victory coke--minus the 
Now only one of the Blowoffs might qualify 
scrawled in a ~ -ovous hand. 
bourbon--in Sunday morning's posr-samt
under ~he heading "would-be-professional,"
"What's thu I asked, pointing to the legal celebration. "Shari and Beth (Aries) did It for
but a ltttle adverstty never stopped them in
pad. 
us every game.''
their relentless pursuit of a fabled Bookstore
''My list,'' he replied. 
Forget It Jones, the Blowoffs gimpy captain championship.
As it turned out his "list" included the room didn't fool anyone with her performance.
As for secret weapons, well, captain Jones,
number of every room in the hall, in the order he 
nicknamed "elbows" for reasons unknownmust
wanted to pick each and every single one. His 
take the credit for that role. She carried to the
plan, as he explained it to me, was to wait 
Gary Grassey is a member ofThe Observer's
court years of experience in high school ball • 
outside where the room-picks would actually 
sports staff. 
and co-ree leagues at Notre Dame. Even on
occur, and cross off each room as it was taken. 
The Observer -Sports Friday, May 2, 1980 -page 18 
Molarity 

I J(JJEIAJ I COULD IX> Jr
CUERYL, WAKE" UP, 

I 1</JI;LJ I COULD t..J4K£ UP
J: DID Jr. I IJOK£ UP JN 
AAID GE. T 10 HY g o'cLOGK
Tt,_,f, "I SHOWERED .Mit> 
CLASS CIJ T!HE AT LEAST
DIZ.ES!>fl> .AAID I'M ALL 
.sET FoR MY 8 O'Ct.()(.J< 
5EME5~ 
~ 
'I 

Baseball 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Pigeons 

I / 
j 
I 
r'! 
II 1 
\ 
li 
5 
9 
14 
15 

I 
16 I 
17 
18

j 
19

1) 
I' 20
! 
23 24 

by Michael Molinelli 

I BRENOA. TODA'I 15 n 

by Jim McOure/Pat Byrnes 

The Daily Crossword 

All Rights R.aserved 



L Pet. 
8 .529 9 .500 9 .500
ACROSS card combi· nation Allege Direct Robert­2nd bright· est star in constell a· tion Escape Yugoslavian measure Flowering plant River in 
Russia GBS play (with "The") Stead Peer Gynt's mother 
25 
28 
31 
34 36 
37 
38 
39 
41 42 43 44 46 
Part of a film strip Iridescent shell Agnus-Ruler of a kind Betel or hazel Declaim Author Hi. ... er Organic compound Gaelic Hearts or c· Jbs Maglie or Mineo Lecture hall Fowl 
47 49 50 51 
53 60 
61 62 
63 
64 
65 66 
67 
68 
Poplar kin Mosquito genus Corrida sound -up (admits) Idleness, 
for some Harbinger of spring Prudent Daughter of Eurytus Only Small land 
masses: Fr. October 
birthstone Kelly and 
Hackman Exploit Hawaiian 

state bird 

IJ 
I~ 
DOWN 1 Honey drink 
2 A Sommer

I) 3 Pope of yore
I< 
4 Mischief 5 Demean 6 WWI battle· 
site 7 Small orna­
mental case 8 Batters 9 Do over 
10 Marry on the run 11 12 13 21 22 25 


~  .706  
6  .600  2  
10 9  .444 .438  4Y2 41h  
11  .353  6  
11  .353  6  
5  .737  
7  .650  '1'12  
7  .650  1V2  
11  .421  6  
12  .333  7'12  
14  .300  8112  

26 
27 
29 
30 
31 32 
33 
35 
37 
40 
45 47 
48 50 
52 
53 54 55 
56 
57 
58 
59 
60 

Replete Advantage Govt. grp. Mortgage Monopoly Impudent Stage show Encore! Mentally weak Ruminant food Challenged Follow News bits Pendant ornament Economic low Plan in detail Doughboy Sets into position Ropes Like ewes Gain by force Distribute Black Great gulp Deception Bob of comedy Pearl Buck heroine Soccer great Joplin specialty 
Now open 7 days a week tilll am 

FREE DELIVERY EVERY NIGHT 232-1883 233-8989 

open till 3am FRIDAY 

and SATURDAY 
Pittsburgh .Chicago St. Louis Phila,Qelphia Montreal New York 
Houston Cincinnati Los Angeles San Diego Atlanta 
Toronto Boston N~w York Milwaukee Baltimore Detroit Cleveland 
Chicago Oakland Kansas City Texas Seattle Minnesota California 

East w L Pet. GB 
12 9 
8 
7 6 6 
West 
14 13 13 8 6 
San Francisco 6 

Yesterday's Games 
Pittsburgh 2, Montreal 1, 10 innings San Diego 4, Atlanta 3 Philadelphia 2, New York 1 Houston 9, Cincinnati 3 , Only Games Scheduled 
Today's Games 
San Francisco (Knepper 2-2) at Mon­treal (Grimsley H) Atlanta (Alexander 0·2 or Boggs 0-0) at Pittsburgh (Rooker 2·1), (n) San Diego (Wise 1-1) at New York (Burris 2-1), (n) Los Angeles (Sutcliffe 0-1) at Philadel­phia (Ruthven 1-1), (n) Chicago (Hernandez 1-1) at Cincinnati 
(Pastore 3·1), (n) 

Houston (Ryan 1-0) at St. Louis Forsch H), (n) 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
East 
W 
9 9 9 7 7 7 6 
West 
12 12 10 10 11 10 9 
(B. 
GB 
-
V2 V2 
8  .467  1  
11  .389  2V2  
11  .389  2'12  
10  .375  2'12  
7  .632  - 
8  .600  'h  
8  .556  1V2  
8  .556  1Y2  
11  .500  2Y2  
10  .500  2'12  
10  .474  3  


Yesterday's Games 
Cleveland 2, Toronto 1 Boston 4, Chicago 3 California 2, Seattle 1 Only games scheduled 

Today's Games 
Cleveland (Barker 2-1) at Torontostieb 3-0). (n) Milwaukee (Caldwell 2-1) at Chicago (Kravec 1-1), (n) New York (Guidry 0-0) at Minnesota (Zahn 2-1), (n) Boston (Torrez 0-3) at Kansas City (Gale 0-3). (n) Baltimore (Flanagan 2·2) at Texas (Matlack 2-0), (n) Seattle (Abbott 2-1) at California (Frost 2·2), (n) Detroit (Rozema 2-1 or Wilcox 0-2) at Oakland (McCatty 2-3), (n) 
Basketball .. -,· 
NBA Championship Finals Best of Seven Sunday's Games 
Philadelphia at Los Angeles 
Hockey 
National Hockey League Playoffs Semifinal Round Best of Seven Yesterday's Games 
Philadelphia  7,  Minnesota  0  (Series  
tied, 1-1).  
New  York  Islanders  2,  Buffalo  

\Islanders lead series 2·0) Tomorrow's Games Buffalo at New York Islanders Philadelphia at Minnesota 
The Observer -Sports Friday, May 2, 1980 -page 19 
Sports Briefs:_...______ TraCksters host Eastern Michigan 
Dillon captures soccertitle 
The Big Red from Dillon Hall defeated Flanner yesterday in the interhall soccer championship, 1-0, completing an undefeated, untied season by the South Quaders and notching Dillon it's second inter hall sports championship in three days. 
Big Red took the baseball crown on Tuesday with an 8-4 win over Zahm. 
Dillon scored the game's only goal during the first five minutes of play when team captain Pat Conally took a centering pass from right wing Georg Biron and put it past the Flanner goalkeeper. 
The North Quad representative did not play dead, however, as Flanner continued to pressure throughout the contest. "They played a steady game and never let up," said Conally. ''They're to be complimented on their play.'' 
Dillon goaltender Dan Hammer, who did not allow a single goal all semester, had nothing but praise for his defense. "They didn't buckle under pressure. They made my job easy.'' 
The victory was especially rewarding for Dillon since the team had to play the game minus two of its regualrs. Dave Combs and Chris Pearson both sat out the game with injuries while Pete Martin and Matt Finnigan filled in. ''The injuries could have hurt us a lot," said Conally, "but Pete and Matt did a great job. In fact, the whole squad came through when they had to. They deserve a lot of credit.'' 
Netters try for 20-win season 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team will close out it's regular season this weekend, needing a four-match sweep in the next three days to notch its second straight 20-win season.The Irish, who had their 14-match winning streak snapped last Sunday by Ohio State, stand 16-3 on the year. 
Tom Fallon's squad will serve as host for the second Notre ­Dame Quadrangular Tournament of the year today and tomorrow as visiting Butler, Valparaiso, and Marquette are all slated for matches with the Irish. Notre Dame will face Buder this afternoon at 1:00, Valpo tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. and Marquette at 1 p.m. The team then will finish its regular season at Kalamazoo on Sunday before gearing up for the May 24-26 Eastern Collegiate Championships in Rochester, N.Y. 
All three matches of the quadrangular will be played at Notre Dame's Courtney Tennis Center, weather permitting. 
[continued from page 24] 
ed to the. offensive attack as of 
late but bolster a fleet-footed 
outfield with the addition of 
cenrerfielder Greg Rodems. 
Rodems, first' baseman Hen­ry Valenzuela, and senior Mark Simendingc:r round out the remaining Irish starters all sporting solid .290 plus aver­ages. Rodems and Valenzuela are second on the team in homers with two apiece. 
Why the tremendous turn around this season? 
"We felt we turned the corner last year playing very tough opponents,'' answers Kelly. "I felt we could compete with everyone on our schedule this year but a few things had to fall in place, for example, our pitching, which is very young." 
Fortunately for Kelly, he was greeted in the fall by Larry Gallo. 
"Larry offered to help out during the fall. I knew he coached in the Cape Cod League during the summer and did an excellent job, especially with the pitchers.'' 
Under Gallo's tutelage, the pitching staff, though not per­forming as spectacularly as the hitters, has been steady and quite stingy in surrendering runs in the late innings. Lead­ing the way is junior right­hander Mike Deasey, who pos­sesses a 5-l record and a 2.61 ERA. 
1uesday will conclude Tom 
Kelly's last homestand as 
coach of the Irish. Kelly an­
anounced his retirement, ef­
• • • Wrapup 

fective at the end of this season, earlier in the week. The departing mentor will con­centrate full time on his duties as director of non-varsity sports. 
~No. 
SMC' 
THEATRE 
by Matt Huffman Sports Writer 

The Irish Track team will 
finish irs schedule of home 
appearances this Saturday in a' 
dual meet with Eastern Mich­
igan. The only other home 
meet slated for the tartan 
track behind the ACC was the 
Notre Dame Invitational, which 
took place over Spring break. 
Therefore most students will 
get their first chance to see the 
squad. 
"Anytime you're running in 
front of the home crowd it's an 
advantage for the tearr . It 
should definitely help r ts run 
better," says Piane. 
The Hurons ofEaster a Mich­
igan come to South B' nd with 
a fine tradition; th;3 year's 
team seems to be not xception. 
"We'll have to rur. very well Saturday to come o· .ton top," comments Piane. ''Eastern Michigan has a go Jd club year in and year ou . They've supplied many a .hleres to the Olympics inch ding Hasley Crawford who WOil the Gold Medal in the 10J meter dash at Montreal in 1976." 
Crawford competed for the country ofTrinidad and Tobago four years ago. 
The Hurons, members of the 
Rugbyclub to battle South Bend 
Notre Dame's rugby squad closes its season tomorrow with a match against arch-rival South Bend at 2 p.m. The site of the donnybrook had yet to be determined yesterday, but will most likely be played at Stepan Field. 
The Irish will be attempting 
to avenge a 15-4 defeat at the 
hands of the talented South 
Bend crew when they met last 
November. This is the same 
South Bend club that recently 
copped the state championship 
at Indianaoolis. 

cafch -the 7:1.5 p.rf\. shuffle a:( Le Mans (sMc) 1br -transportai1on-b~ retvms at ID pm. 
r---iivERCiTY-RiCORDS--~ I northern India-na's largest record &tape I 1 I selection and concert ticket headquarters 1 I 
I I Cfl 00 any regular album Of tape I 1 I fl • purchase with this coupon. I I OFF llmlton•~rperaon •xpl,.• ma.v 30,Jq80 ~
I

120,000albums & tapealn stock 1I t Huge cut-out Gnd speclallmpott selection Iopen lOto 10,1 I ·~D-smc checks Gccepted up to 120.00 7day• 1 II over purchGse amount open IOto 10 2n~2.t2. I 
50910 U.S. 3J Noab • 3mil!! nOitb of camput • next to AI'• •uP.rDatketl 
Mid-American Conference, are strong in nearly all events according to Piane. 
"They have people coming at you from everywhere. They are especially strong in the middle-distance and distance events. This should be inter­esting since this is. where our strenth lies also," says the fifth-year coach. "We'll defin­itely have to score in our strong events to win the meet." 
IRISH NOTES: The cross­country, indoor and outdoor track teams held their banquet last night. The Most Valuable in cross-country went to junior 
John Filosa while junior Chuck 
Aragon was tapped as the 
outstanding member of the 
track team. Senior Matt Cato 
was honored as the Most 
Improved runner on the fall 
cross-country squad, while 
Kevin Kenny nabbed that dis­
tinction for track. 
Tomorrow's meet is schedul­
ed to begin at noon--a time 
Piane hopes will encourage · some spectators. 
''The last event should stan 
just before the Blue-Gold game 
so that students can go right 
from the meet to the game next 
door,'' explains Piane. 
.Amtriran1hmtituttnfweclJnnlngu 
a totally unaccredited university dedicated to sale of facetious Doctorate degtees 
Authentic-looking. 
Great as Gifts cr NoveltiesFine Parchment 
Send name, address, and "major of recipient along with $25.00 plus $2.50 for postage and handling to: The American Institute of Technology, 198 Monterrey Drive, Clevemont, Ca. 91711 
Campus View Apattments Now tenting fotsummet 

1 bedroom -J210 
2 bedroom-J250 
roommGtes still AVAILABLE JUNE-AUGUST 15 needed for fGII spot replacement CentrGI air & heated pool 
CALL GAYLE FOR INFORmATION 272-1441 The Place to be Off-Cam us 


SENIORS 
Join VISTA and share your Liberal Arts experience with America's urlxm & ruml poor. Your degree in EDUCATION, SOCIAL SCIENCE, HEALTH, BUSINESS ADMIN. PHYS. ED., or RECREATION can help solve social, human and environ­mental problems of low-income communities. Sign up at Placement Office for a talk with former VISTA volunteer on campus: 
all Chicago Recr. Off. llect 312-353-4990 8:30 to 5:00 
--------------------------------~~--~~------------------~-------­
Friday, May 2, 1980 -page 20 
Sports Special 



by Gary Grassey Sports Writer 
One of the themes for Dan Devine and his coaching staff in practice this spring was to work on game situations that have faltered from time-to-time in recent Notre Dame football campatgns. 
Third-and-ten and goal line offenses and defenses were situattons Devine and his braintrust have tried to simulate. 
Saturday afternoon at 2 p.m., however, practice will turn into full scale game conditions when the Irish stage their annual Blue-Gold affair to wind up sprin~ drills for 1980. 
"Although we've tned to this year," said Devine, "You really can't practice game si~uations in practice. In 33 years of coaching, I snll come across games with situations I've never seen before. '' 


It's been a productive month of April for the Irish. Bad weather that cost the team extra workouts aside, Devine has seen marked improvement in crucial departments. 
''We've gotten a messageon every position,'' he said. "Sometimes in spring practice you go downhill from where you were at the start, but we're a little better every day. We haven't had a bad practice.'' 
Defensively coordinator Joe Y onto has seen that same kind of progress. Sophomore Mark Zavagnin saw playing last season and is 


looking to fill a linebacker spot next to middle linebacker Bob Crable, while junior Tony Belden will play the other back. • 
It strong safety Tom DeSiato's infected foot does not heal sufficiently, co-captain Tom

i 
" 
Gibbons is slated to assume that role. Injured Steve Cichy will be back there come autumn. Rod Bone, another freshman, would then open at Gibbons' vacated free safety spot. 


"From all indications in drills," commented Yonto, "we're making headway. But then with game conditions-the stadium, the crowd, Big Ten officials-it'll be different. They'll react more realistically there then they'd react with us standing over them in drills." 
I' i 
Junior John Krimm, returning from a knee 


injury, will share a corner with Dave Duerson. Both saw plenty of action 'lS starters in 1979. The play of Duerson and other sophomores-to­be to prompt Devine to call the class of '83 "percentage-wise, the most mature group of youngsters I've ever had." 
''· 
Spring drills please coaches 
Key personnelwon 't play in classic 
bv Beth Huffman Sports Editor 
Many jerseys that will make div~ng catches, key blocks, last-second touch­downs, crunching tackles and spectac­ular interceptions for Notre D<lffie next season will be missing in the Blue Gold game's golden ·anniversary to· morrow. Familiar .names to Insh fans such as Pete Holohan, Dean Masztak, Kevin Griffith, Scott Zettek, Mark Czaja, Pete Buchanan and Steve Cichy will no~ don their uniforms. 

Except for returning starter John Hankerd, who has a firm hold on one defensive end position, the rest of the line is up for grabs.· Sophomores Jeff Leuken and Joe Gramke are gotng head-to-head for the iob at the other end. Pat Kramer, Don Kidd, Bob Clasby and Ian Gray will share duties at tackle. 
On the other side of the line, the Irish find themselves with holes at three spots on the offensive line, and heated battles are underway to fill the shoes of Vagas Ferguson and Rusty Lisch. Freshman Tom Thayer is in the picture on the line. Captain and centerJ ohnScullysays the 6-5, 235-pound guard "is only lacking in experience.'' Phil Carter has eked ahead of fellow Washingtonian (the state, that is) Jim Stone in the competition for Ferguson's tailback post. Freshman John Sweeney will run at fullback with sophomore Ty Barber while injured Pete Buchanan waits in the wings until August. 
Junior Tim Huffman is Devine's right guard. Freshman Randy Ellis and sophomore Phil Pozderac r .mnd out the interior hne at tackles. Nick Vehr, entering his final season with the Irish, has recovered from a dislocated finger enough to open at tight end in place of injured regular Dean Masztak. Tony Hunter, only a freshman, is the premier receiver for the Irish, and will man the splits with Mike Boushka, whose off-season work in the weight room seems to be paying dividends. 
As for the quarterbacks, Devine has chosen Mike Courey to be the blue team starter in front of classmates Tim Koegel and Greg Knafelc, all seniors-to-be. 
Kicking chores show Dick Boushka returning to do the punting Mike Johnston as the number one placekicker. Incoming freshman Blair Kiel and Cichy may have something to say about those spots in the fall. 
"I think this is one of the best springs, 
overall,"  said  Y onto,  "in  terms  of forward  
momentum  towards  the  season  that  I  can  
remember.''  

"During drills, this team has developed a feeling that they're gonna win," added Devine. ''This has been the best spring practice I've been around. Regardless of the weather and the fact that we didn't use up our 20 practices, all the coaches feel this way.'' 
Saturday, they hope the good vibes keep flowing. 


Injuries new and old plague the Irish along with familiar complaints of sagginggrades, but the vast number of absentees does not bother sixth-year mentor Dan Devine a great deal. 
"Injuries are a thing to be exJ?ected in spring drills; people are trytng to get in shafe," satd Devine. "You just have to fil in where r.ou can. The main purpose of spring dnlls is to evaluate a number of people at a number of positions, which is what we've been able to do to an adequate degree despite the injuries.'' 
Dean Masztak. wzJI miss tomorrow's game with an injured hand. 
Strategy! 
Dan Devine will study new­comers as well as old in the 50th Annual BlueI Gold Game. Kickoff is slated for 2 p.m. at the Notre Dame Stadium. 
Pete Buchanan will focus the re­mainder of the spring and the summer minths on strengthening the ankle that sidelined him for the 1979 season. Buchanan began his rehabilitation program with whirlpools and had advanced to running nearly a mile and a half each day. Ankle boots and stretching exercises also fit into the curriculum as Buchflnan, Plymouth, Ind. native, seeks the starting fullback berth. 
''I'dreally like to be in there," said Buchanan. ''When you miss the whole year -fall and syring -it is kind of disheartening. 1'1 just have to come back in the fall and work that much harder.'' 
The numbers 31 and 86 will not grace the field at Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow since Holohan and Masztak will not see action. Holohan joins the spectator ranks this spring while concentrating on weak grades, and Mike Bouska will fill in at the flanker spot. Masztak's injured hand will kave the Irish with Tony Hunter and Nick Vehr as prime pass targets. 
The Irish defense also feels the injury bite with Zettek, Czaja, Griffith and Cichy not dressing for the annual classic. Zettek and Czaja are nursing old wounds and should be back in action .come fall. Bob Clasby and Don Kidd will handle the tackle chores in Zettek' s absence while John Hankerd and Joe Gramke settle in at end. 
Afso missing in the tackle spot is Griffith, a Kettering, Ohio native who collected valuable playing time last year. Griffith is bothered by injuries both old and new -over a year ago the 6-3 230 pounder had a ligament removed from his left knee. The knee rresented numerous problems for Griffith during the fall, but a brace removed some of the worries.] ust two· weeks ago the junior-to-be had torn cartilage taken form his right knee and the bone shaved. 
The sharpest sting for the Irish defense is caused by a very difficult 
vacancy to fill  - the hole created at  
. strong  safety  by an  absent  Steve  
Cichy.  

"Coach Devine told me they wanted to give my back a little more time to rest even befor I hurt my elbow last fall,'' said the Grace resident. ''They said there was no need to risk getting hurt.'' 
Cichy spent eight weeks over the summer in a back brace after suffering ~ stress fracture of his spinal cord in last year's spring game. The Fargo, N.D., native was hailed as last spring's Most Improved Player at half time of the Blue-Gold classic. Follow­ing the injury, coaches and even Cichy were skeptical as to the future of the 6-3, 215 pounder. 
"I'm just happy I got to start 10 games last year," said Cichy. "Before the season started we thought I wouldn't play. It was just· a great feeling to be able to play. 
''The rest is supposed to allow me to recuperate up to 100 percent. I am at 100 percent and want to get ready for 
fall. II The 50th Blue-Gold game will give not only coaches, but fans a chance to see some unfamiliar faces on the field --come fall, though, the likes of Cichy, Buchanan, Griffith, Czaja, Zet­tek and Masztak had better be 100 percent, or the Irish may have trouble unproving last year's 7-4 mark 
.. 


Sports Special Friday, May 2, 1980 -page 21 
\ 

An 'they 're o -in quarterback derby 
by Bill Marquard 104 yards. The Sioux City, Iowa native completed ''Our two freshmen quarterbacks are very • Sports Writer three of four attempts for 67 yards against unusual young men," said Devine. "They arc 
Purdue and started Notre Dame's final game both very mature mentally and physically. In The Irish quarterback derby has moved into against Miami in Tokyo. fact, I don't think I have ever seen two high the backstretch, and senior signal caller Mike Courey is known as a scrambler, as he readily school quarterbacks as mature as Scott or Blair. 
admits.. "I try to make things happen by
Courey is a nose ahead of the rest of the pack. \ ''When Joe Montana came here as a 
scrambling-the coaches usually use a lot of freshman, he wasn't nearly as well preparedCourey was tabbed by head coach Dan Devine 
run/pass options and .sprint outs while I'm at
as the starting quarterback for the blue squad mentally and he developed into a great (with the/reen jerseys) in tomorrow 's annual quarterback. '' quarterback. I'm sure both Scott and Blair can Blue/Go! classic. . ''.I !1m ?.ot too concern~d about our quarterback handle the position well.'' 
''After watching all of our quarterbacks in pos.ltton, offered pevme, watching his sixth A product of Washington Courthouse's Miami 
practice and evaluating thousands of feet of film, spnng season as Insh coach. ''As I said last Trace High School in Ohio, Grooms has followed we decided to start Mike," explained Devine. year, quart~r~ack will definitely not be our in and filled the shoes of Ohio State quarterback "But the quarterback position is just oneof 22 weakest posmon. Everyone worried about our Art Schlichter. Grooms completed 140 of 238 
quarterbacking last season and Rusty Lisch
positions on the field as far as the coaching staff passes for 2,935 yards and 31 touchdowns in his 
ended up being picked in the fourth round of the
ts concerned, so we will be watching everyone two-year/rep career. He also rushed for 1,860 carefully.'' NFL draft.'' yards an threw only three interceptions. 
''I guess being awarded the starting role is a The Irish are undeniably deep at the quarter­"I'm sure the quarterback situation will be 
back position, asd-two other time-tested seniors competitive," said Grooms. "No one hasvote of confidence by the coaching staff,'' said 
should get plenty of playing time tomorrow.
Courey. "It should help me a little going into the established himself as the starter yet and I think 
Cincinnati Moeller High School product Tim
game and next year.'' that will push me to work ten times harder. Koegel saw the most action behind Lisch last "I really hope I am able to play next season,
One of the four Irish quarterbacks who saw 

season, playing in all 11 Irish games and starting but I would understand if Coach Devine wantedaction, Courey appeared in five games at the for the injured Lisch against Purdue.
Irish offensive helm last year. He completed six to go with someone who has mon; experience. Greg Knafelc combi'nes the disciplined style of Any of the quarterbacks we have this fall· could 
of 13 passes with one interception and gained Koegel and the running tendencies of Courey. play." The senior Knafelc threw only one pass last Kiel boasts equally impressive statistics. He season, completing a 17-yard scoring toss to threw for 4,214 yards and 39 touchdowns in his Dean Masztak on a fake field goal attempt high school career, completing 291 of 592 against Purdue. The Green Bay, Wis. product passe·s. He also rushed for 763 yards and 15 played in nine games his sophomore year as a scores. quarterback and holder of placement kicks, But Kiel is a talented kicker as well, hitting completing one of two passes against Air Force 17 of 27 career field goal attempts, including two in his only aerial attempts. from 47 yards out. He also tallied 94 of 110 extra 
"Going into spring drills, Tim, Mike, and I point attempts and owns a 38.4 career punting average, with his longest boot being 74 yards.
knew that we would all have to work very hard,'' ''Even though there are three seniors vying for 
said Knafelc. "I had a pretty good spring, but 
the position, I think everyone will have an equalthere are still a few things I would ltke to 
. " 
improve on. chance ofgetting the quarterback job,'' said Kiel "I am happy with the progress I've made this from his Columbus, Ind. home. "Naturally, I 
will push myself that much harder considering
spring," commented Courey. "There are still some aspects of the job I still have to work on the competition.'' 
particularly some of the fundamentals.'' ' Grooms and Kiel both agree that theywill have a rivalry, but it will be good-natured.
''I'm not disappointed in the progress ofany of ''We met last week, and we got along really
our qua.rterbacks," said Devine. "They have all 
well," remembered Kiel. "We'll both behad their good and bad practices, which is to be 
expected.'' competing for the same spot, but we will both be working to make Notre Dame the best football
To make the competition even more intense for team around. '' 
that starting spot behind center, the Irish have 
The horses may be at the half mile post, but
two of the top prep quarterback prospects in the 
the smart money m this year's derby still has not
country, Scott Grooms and Blair Kiel, joining the 
Mike Courey 

been wagered.
squad freshmen in August. 
Devine says 
Leadership startS with Irish tri-captains 
by Frank LaGrotta will become the first junior since '~You might say the captains are being open to the needs of both the Sports Writer Willie Fry to serve in that capacity. under a microscope and, as such, they coaches and the players. I wouldn't 'Td have to say there is a lot of have to set the standard for the rest go so far as to say that the captains ''I rely heavzly on my captains. I responsibility that comes with the of the team to follow. '' have to act as a communications line always have. I believe a good team job," he adds. "On the field, I'II try His counterpart on offense, John between both parties because I think must have good leadershzp from to play as hard as I always have to Scully, is in total agreement with the players afld coaches communi­both the coaches and the upperclass­set an example but the real respons­Crable's assessment of the job. cate very well as it is. I do think, men on the squad and I think that ibility comes off the field because "It is a situation where you have however, that a captain has to be leadershzp has to start with the everyone watches the captains to see to lead by example," points out sensitive to everyone's feelings and captains. '' how they behave.'' Scully. "I think the job requires speak up if he thinks there's a 
Dan Devine 


problem." Both Crable and Scully think that next dear's predominantly youthful
In his book, Fighting Back, 
squa may require a little extraformer Notre Dame football captain, attention.
Rocky Bleier, talks of the tradition ''I think the freshmen look up toassociated with captaining the Notre the juniors and seniors on theDame football team. 
team," explains Crable. "And"I asked God," recalls Bleier, because there will qe so many''either to let me get married or freshmen and sophomores in keymake me the captain of the team.'' 
positions next season, thatwill makeGod, in His infinite wisdom, the captain's role that much moreallowed Bleier to remain a bachelor 
.
Important. '' until many years later. He did, "But," adds Scully, "the guys arehowever, grant his request to be all intellegent and mature enough rocaptain. Bleier was grateful on both behave properly without someoneccunts. 
always telling them what to do.''
''It was a great honor to serve as Head coach, Dan Devine, believescaptain,·' the Pittsburgh Steeler 1-the three captains he will work with running back related last January. 
during the upcoming season are all"It's a big responsibility because capable and will serve the syuadeveryone wants you to set an well.
example. The tradition that 
· "No doubt about it," emphasizessurronds the position is unbeliev­Devine. ''These guys have proven
able." 
themselves to be good teflm
All of which is not lost on Bob members and fine Notre Dame menCrable who will join Tom Gibbons since they first stepped on campus.
and J~hn Scully as co-captains of I must admit that I'm lookingnext year's team. 
forward to working with them and I''I am definitely honored that the expect them to be as fine a group ofcoaches thought enough of.me to captains as I've ever had at Notre
make me a captain," admas the Bob Crable, Dan Devine, Notre Dame Club president Lyn Leone, Tom Gibbons 
Dame or anywhere.''
sophomore middle linebacker who andJohn Scully 
.---.---­
-----~ 
'. 

\. 
/ 

~--------­

The Observer -SportsBoard Friday , May 2, 1980 -page 22 

I 
' 
I 
~ 
• 
''\ 
h .
(' 
II
,<I 
;~ t 

:',. II \ 

I <, 
I 
I~'· 
I ' 
j; 
j 
' 
j I' 
!~ 
... Dinger 
[continued from page 24] 

''This year, Mark has become more ·conscious of rolling his wrist and trying to hit line drives,'' say Kelly. 
Simendinger adds: "Coach Gallo watched me hit a few times and suggested I keep my hands further extended from my body. By eliminating the uppercut, I feel I've become a more valuable hitter on our 
·'

team.'' 
But the uppercut brings back . fond memones, particularly of ' a dramatic seventh inning ­smash 1st spring that beat powerful Western Michigan. 
''That was a great thrill because we weren't really expected to beat Western," Dinger remembers. "But my biggest thrill at ND was probably a doubleheader against Xavier last year." 
In that twinbill, Dinger won the first game with a last inning single, then broke U{> a scoreless duel with a stunnmg round tripper in the seventh. 
Simendinger ruefully recalls 
-

his worst moment, two weeks ago against, ironically, Western. The home plate umpire, after some soul searching, upheld an appeal by 
the Broncos that Dinger missed third base after plating the go-ahead run in the seventh. 
"I touched the ba5>e, but I really cut it close,'' Dinger says. '"I was able to score standing up, so I felt I shouldn't have created any doubt about my touching third." -
Dinger blamed himself for the setback, but he hasnt't let it affect his play during the recent eight-game winning streak. Rival pitchers will attest to that, as the number three hitter is the fulcrum around which the Irish line-1.1p revolves and it is a line-up that has shellacked hurlers for 65 runs during the streak. · 
''Mark is the loosest guy 09 the team, as well as the funniest,'' pitcher Mike Kenahan comments. 
But Kelly feels Dinger has finally reined in a bit of unnecessary dugout humor.· ''There were times last year when Mar~ would joke around, and some of the younger players would try to emulate him. This year Mark knows when we need a light remark as well as when to be serious.'' 
Coash takes 14-0 mark to regionals 
by Kelly Sullivan and I played a summer circuit tion cente.r for a few years and Women's Sports Editor that d1d a lot for my game.'' I've decided I'd like to teach Coash collected plenty of deaf children when I gradu­
A look at Saint Mary's tennis hardware for her hi~h school ate." season will show that numb'er accomplishments, tncluding Patsy plans to play tennis for one singles player Patsy Coash state finalist and AU-American USF, whose program she de­
has a tough act to follow next honors every year. That kind of scribes as "much more in­year -herself. recognition hasn't let up for the tense. '' But the Holy Cross 
Only a freshman, Coash Belles' netter, named Most resident has no regrets about couldn't have ,played a more 'valuable Player and Athlete of her year and a half at Saint perfect game. She rolled to 11 the Year at Saint Mary's. awards Mary's. 
straight victories last fall and banquet last week. "I love it here," she re­won the Division III State Despite the pressures at­marked. ''If they had my major Championship in number one tached to any wmning streak, here I'd stay because it's been singles and teamed up with Patsy's composure on the court super.". 
partner Maureen Fitzgerald to has enabled her to defeat her capture the · title in first-slot last 14 opponents with relative doubles as well. This spring, ease. 
th~: Kalamazoo, Michigan na-"I don't feel a lot of pressure Provost 
. rive proved no less competent, right now, but if I keep winning completing another undefeated I'm bound to. I'd love to go season en route to regional play undefeated all four years but a 
-appoints
May 15-17. loss sometime might be what I 
With credentials like that, need to avoid the strain that one is tempted to think Coash goes with winning streaks.'' has been gripping a tennis This month's regionals will raquet all her life. Not so, says be Coash' s last chance to 
Weigert

Patsy. compete nationally in a Saint ''Although I've always been Mary's uniform. She plans to in athletics (an MVP recipient transfer to the University of Dr. Andrew J. Weigert, pro­
in high school volleyball and South Florida in January to fessor of sociofogy and anthro­track), I really didn't start major in speech pathology, a pology at Notre Dame, has been plalying tennis until I was about program not offered at Saint named chairman of the depart­
13. But I had a lot of good Mary's. ment by Professor Timothy 
O'Meara, provost.

coaching through high school "I've worked at a rehabilita-
Classifieds  All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m.• two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail.  

Meg Macias,Cell-We'll all miss you terribly next year.You're one in a million. Thanks. Please keep in touch'Mike Love, All of us Patti-Thanks for everything, personal and Mike Trausch (Truck),·'professional'· We'll all miss you next year. TakeILY care of Julie for us.Mike Love, Mary, Beth, Lisa. Bobbi, Ritt, and DanaKate and Katie, Looking forward to a great sen.or year. Remember our motto. Doug, Mike, & a-Ball-Michelle We gonna do BH's 'till the cows come home for the Who-get psychedRyan, and drink up.So you're still going out with Cindy? ReensI'm jealous. -Inside ioka -----------..--­To my favorite RA in BP: Roses are RedDear Pam, Susette, and Mel: Violets are blueTo the most loyal and wonderful This is the last personalfriends anyone could have. Thank you I'll be sending to you.for alway' being there when 1 naed you, for the best of times, for special The inevitable has comefriendships. Have a happy summer. Our collegiate career is throughLove, But I've had fun this yearTeri Hope you've had a good time, too. LEM Dear Angel, Ro, Melissa, Marty, Ann, ~rlday at the Nazz...Michelle, 3-T Holy Cross, 9110 Grace, Your last chance to hear-Greg & Eric, Dave, Mike, Joe Dan, Fess. Terry, Rob, Tom Sheridan, Mark UlllmanObserverites. Louie, Dale, Butch, Bob, MaH Schwind [9-10:30}David, Colin, Susan Tambo, Mary, Sandy PancoJanet. Colleen, and Ceil: Have a great summer. Doug Stringer [10:3D-1}As Always, Teri ---------------­The Nazz says "Come Celebrate!" ourf-----------------­last night of the semester features: lo everyone who has worked Weds. Harry Nehls &Co. 8:30-10night in the past w semesters, Rich Stevenson and Dan Berenato 1D-1It's been fun. I'll miss the early morning hours and good company. ---------------­To my favorite Irishman (who canDeirdre 1ardly ever win a bet): Happy ye~r. iddo! You make ME smile. Jane, Love.I love you-more! Your Favorite PuppyTim ---------------­DEAR L.A.' WOMAN, NOBODY DOES IT BETTER THANDear Michael. Mary, Nicholas, Joel, YOU. SEE YOU THIS SUMMER.Lois, Dan, Paul, and Tim: LOVE ALWAYS,What can I say? It's been a great PRsemester. We'll prove it all night Saturday. I want to see you at the KJC party. Linear meansKeep in touch this summer. f(x1 + x2) = F(x1) + F(x2).Love ya all, In other words. solutions can be Margaret positioned on t"p of each other or P. S. We all know who's best. overlaid.P.P.S. Oh, really, M.A.K.? Ann ---·---·--------­Your car Is filthy! Bring It to the Management club Car Wash at First To Lisa, Julie, Beth, Bobbi, Ritt, Bank, corner of Cleveland and U.S. 31,Dana, Eileen, Meg, Ann, Patty, Saturday, May 3, between 10 a.m. and Theresa and anyone else I forgot: 2 p.m.Thanks for the great year. It wouldn't have been the same without Mike Hickey: ~ou. Have a fun summer. You have the cutest dimples!Love you always, Asecret admirer Mary  Dear Princess. This semester has been my best ever. You're the reason. and I've got both feet off the ground. Maybe this summer will bring me down. but will I get to see your beautiful green eyes smiling at me in the fall? You're so dangerous. I love you. "Virgil" Sugarcube-Thanks for being my "knight in shining armor" and for helping straighten out this confused little mind. Your Brown-Eyed-Girl To 4-Deep-South-Lewis· You'll all be missed by the "mom" you're leaving behind-THINGS WILL NEVER BE THE SAME-VISITS ARE IN ORDER. Love, Mom P.S. Legs-I'll miss the wrestling matches. P.P.S.S. CONFUSION REIGNS It's time to celebrate• This is almost my last personal of the year! Many thanks to all those who made this last semester so enjoyable, especially the University for their generosity in sending me on sabatical. To all my friends new and old have satisfying summer. and beware of weird holy men who would sell your sister to flea ridden camel drivers. Till August-Ryan "no doz" Ver BerKMOES I would like to personally thank the following for making the brief stay of an adopted member of the Notre Dame "family" an enjoyable one;Andrea A.• Ryan "no doz", Cindy K. (from Palos Park Heights Lawn, Illinois), Cindy E., Betsy M.• Mara H.• 3rd floor Badin Beauties. Ellen and Colleen (and the rest of the Lyons Lovelies), Observites, WSND·ers, Renee L., Sue G., Mike M., Sue S., and all the rest of the New Jersey contingent, old pals and new budds, plus all other intimate and not-so-intimate acquaintances. Au revoir, y'all ... Have a nice life. Neil P.S. Eek'l'm an alumnus! ... Can any­O!le please direct me to the bookstore? To all my friends and fellow Observites Have a "rip-roaring" summer!! See ya all soon. Love, Pam Tom J. Have a nice summer!! Pam P.S. No sarcasm intended!! HAPPY BIRTHDAY BARBARA ONU­FRAK. AND CONGRATULATIONS ON BECOMING A GODMOTHER FOR THE SECOND TIME.  Shag--Thanks for being my personal -----------LuAnne & Beth: Pyro-technics Majorsnurse. It's too bad every freshman qon't get mad. We get even!doesn't have. someone like you! See you in Maryland! Congratulations Graduates fromLove, Karen Keenan 3-West and the Off-Campus Boys. May you never lose your GRIP!Riders to Dayton Ohio will leave 5/9 or 5/10 minimal luggage space due to Smiley, Bro. "D". Russ. Tree, Pubes,broken spring on truck. Tom 272-8219 Tatum, Rit, Tush, Scope, SULDP, Drugs. Mugs, Fatso. Zep, Ice. Oak,Attention Detroiters Scum, O'C, Duff, Connie, & HenryNeed to get some luggage home? Put it on the Detroit Club truck. Call Jim Duffy Dog, •Crowe at 6770 to Reserve Space. The brownies will be stale if youReservations must be made by 5/6 don't decide on a date for vour B-Day party soon. Now that the weather'sDesperately need graduation tickets, warming up, so are we!for loved ones. Pay bucks! 1803 Your ex-roomie and cohorts in crime Con·· Dave-­Roses are Red Get agrip for CPA. Four days left toViolets are blue go through Gliem. Kick ay.. and whenMy father warned me you're done I'll help you get theAbout older men like you! Lennon Buzz!Happy 22nd B·day. Kathy Zelder·Ray, Kick booty on CPA, like a foxCon, should. It's the only thing that'llIf not for that reminder, I would excuse being such a hermit womanhave forgotten vour birthday! No this semester (but then, I hear this hasabuse--surprised? Just have a really been your FUN semester!)happy birthday, and that goes for the 14 & 15rest of th~ year too! Kim P.S. Willie doesn't remember scratch· ing your face--which of your suitorsMo (my St. Patty's Day drinking was it then?buddy)-­As my room-pick "designee," you'd Steve V. Dillonbetter get psyched for our bay-window This is it. I win. I quit. (So there.)quad! Hope my "Luck" holds out! See Ya.(even though I'm not Irish!) It's been a great year (& floor!) I'll miss you! I'm the sexiest man on campus. atLove, Joe-Europe least that's what I hear! Thanks forK.M.) your votes·· Greg Hedges--the Armenian GigoloN.J. Club year-end bus Is now taking reservations. Call Dave at 1148. Chris Business staff, you're the greatest!at 1178 or Kevin at 1166 to reserve Cut·Throatily,your seat. Last day for reservations Is The Business ManagerFriday, May 2 That goes for the rest of the ObserverN.D.-SMC Club of St. Louis Baggage family too; special thanks to you. Ceil.Truck information in this week's newsletter. Picnic this Saturday 11-5. --------------­Call 7374 for more information. Alicia, Thanks for all the time and the the Happy 21st early DiDi, little things. Take it easy. Love. We IOVl' you, FC Margaret & Kathy ------------­To my potential corrupters: Donna, Julie, Patty, Tara, Alicia, · Perrier, Tanquuay, Sherman's and Margie, Beth, Helen, Gina, Rose, and Dunhill's all mixed up by the Round­all our otlrer Senior Friends, up make for a wonderful evening. Good luck and have a good life, The Crystal VirginLove. · Margaret B. Kathy K. Sylvia and Friend, Thanks for a great year Sweetey! Con, It'll take more than miles to separate Happy Birthday us. Have a good summer (not too Love, good) I love you. Gertrude, Patty, Margaret, Donna. Sylvester and Friend Molly, Shlynn, Kathy, Teri, Julie, ------------­Tara, Alicia, Jill, MR. Diane, and the Stork and Joe, SMC Bus. Sorry I missed you at Bridget's·­couldn'"t help it. How about Saturday at the Nazz to cheer Harry on?  

{ 
~----------~------------------------------~ 

All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All
Classifieds classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail. 
LOST: a three-strand silver necklace 
with turquoise beads. Please call Tina at 277-0586 if found -Reward 
Notices 
Typing done in my home, Notre Dame Found: Small black puppy with white , Area. 277-3085. spot on chest and wearing leather 
-------------
collar in O'Shag. Call Mary at 1320 GUIDE YOURSELF in London, Hawaii, Mexico City!! Extensive Lost--Minolta 110 camera in a brown itinerary describes what, when, how to case at the mud pits. Please call 6859. see like a·native. Only $5 plus 80 cents Thanks handling. Travelsearch, Department 06, P.O. Box 335, Hermosa Beach FOUND: one men's NO ring with California 90254. Free Brochure. ' Initials DCL '81. Call 6831 to claim 
---------------
Neat, accurate. Found: a gold ring on Rugby Field on
Will do typing. Call 287-5162. Thank you. Sat. Contact L&F Office. 3431 
Lost: on North Quad. Black trifold 
N.J. Club year-end bus Is now taking wallet containing ID, Drivers License reservations. Call Dave at 1148, Chris and other valueless i)ems of no use to at 1178 or Kevin at 1166 to reserve anyone other than me. Need it back your seat. Last day for reservations Is badly. If you can help, call Dan at 1763 Friday, May 2. 
----------------
LOST: Texas Instruments Tl-55 cal­
ND-SMC Club of St. Louis Baggage 
culator at South Dining Hall and GoldTruck info· in this week's newsletter. 
Cross Pen with "Pitt" crest on clip at
Picnic this Saturday 11-5. Call7374 for Hayes Healy.. 
more information. 
TYPING PLUS. Term papers, chases, Lost: Light brown waist corduroydissertations. Light editing, ghost jacket, at an 0-C party last Thurs. nite.
writing. Literary search, bibliograph­Sentimental value. PLEASE return­
ies, genealogies. Job resume service. 
no questions asked, 41-4222.

Sliding rate scale based on lead time. Special discounts on full contracts for 
Lost: In pocket of light brown corduroytheses and dissertations. aardvark jacket, ID and keys. Chain has miniautomatic solutions/p.o. box 1204 phone book and oreo cookie attached.
46624/phone (219) 289-6753. 
Extremely important. Haven't been in room or mailbox since lost. Please
Lost & Found _ret_urn-41_-422_2.____ 
Found: Pair of aqua contacts in white 
For Rent 

case. Call 3281 to claim. 
Several Houses for Rent. Summer Found 1 basketball. Call to identify only, will accomodate any number of distinguishing mark. 1655 students. Reasonable rates. For 
information call Greg Cress after 7:00 
LOST--Sterling silver bracelet in pm at 287-5361. Nieuwland Science Hall. If found call 
_____;___________
234-7220 House or Individual RoomS for sum­mer rent. 4 rooms, close to campus.
LOST: gold-diamond bracelet. High Call 289-1718. sentimental value. Reward. Call 6955 
Staying for the Summer? Renters Lost: After Raft Race on Sat. (1) pair desired for 3-5 bedroom house, veryof blue & white Nike running shoes on close to cam pus. If interested, call beach (2) grey, zippered sweat shirt Mark (8760), Don (8775), or Mr. Busby
with hood. Please call Bart 8440/8458 (287-7617). 
Lost: gold chain link bracelet at Irish Available now and for next fall-at­Wake sentimental value:-Reward call tractive 3 BR, 2 bath home-3 or 4 4122 (SMC) people-near Notre Dame. Call Hrlan 
Humbarger or Kathleen Lathrop at Lost: copper-like wide band ring. 289-6813 from 9am to 5pm.Sentimental value only. Between north dining hall and Howard. Barry Off campus housing, 6 bedrooms etc. 2106 512 Flanner 291-1405. 
Found: set of girls room keys in front Ugly Duckling Rent-A-Car from $7.95 of Lyons. Call Mike 1679 a day and $.07 a mile. 255-2323 
Found: pair of glasses at Earthball Off Campus Housing 6bedrooms (with game. Claim at Lost & Found . Light locks) rented separately. Free Laundrybrown frames, teardrop lenses. and Kitchen. Superior rated. Availa­
ble for summer and fall. 291-1405. Lost: silver keychain with Arab coin. 2keys on chain. Need keys desperate­Furnished four bedroom house, couple
ly. Call 7195. Prof. Richardson. blpcks from campus, for next school 
year. 277-3604 or 288-0955. Lost: Pair of grey, wool-lined leather gloves during An Tostal Saturday at Work for me. live for free this Earthball game. Call 4579. Ask for summer, 277-3604 or 288-0955. Mike 
Furnished-houses or rooms for rent 

this summer, close to campus, veryFound: 1 pair of keys in the fountain reasonable, 277-3604 or 288-0955. outside of Hayes-Healy. Claim at Observer office. House $225/month all included. N. 
Shore Garage. on bus. 233-1329. Lost: gold ring with pearl. Please call 7947 if found MALE STUDENTS TO SHARE 4­
BEOROOM HOUSE NEAR NO. Lost: Vivitar camera at Irish wake. IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY. NEWLY The film is priceless (REWARD) Call REMODELED* NEW CARPET AND Judy 1336 PARTIALLY FURNISHED. CALL 
289-7269 AFTER 7PM. [$75.00 MO. Lost: silver ring with blue stone FOR SUMMER MONTHS].Friday in Grace Hall. If found call Michelle at 2117. Reward House available at 1225 East Campeau -·--------·-------5 bedrooms; all rooms furnished, Dear Kathleen, including kitchen and living room, for 
Your lost Notre Dame Dinner Ring rent summer and winter, walkinghas been returned to the Lost & Found distance to campus. Telephone:in the Ad. Bldg. 232·7180 after 4 p.m. 
Found: Man's watch near dorm construction site. Call Kevin 8953 SUMMER STORAGE SPACE AVAIL· 
ABLE. PICK UP AND DELIVERY. Found in the N.D. Post Office, apair of CALL HAMEL'S at 233-6200. Re-up­contact lenses in awhite case. Stop in holstery and furniture repair services and ask for Brother Thomas. At the also available while you're on vacation Post Office 
Taken: Navy and powder blue down 
Wanted

coat from SMC beer garden on 4/24/80. Please call Mark at 283-8573 ----------------Wanted: Ride to Cleveland, Fri. MayLost: watch, woman's silver digital 2. Can leave anytime. Call41-4107 or 
----------------
Casio with blue face, Sat. 4/19 reward. 41-4532. Call Anne F. 277-1587 after 10:00 pm Need ride to N.Y.C., Phila, or New
LOST: Gold serpentme-link bracelet, 
Jersey. CanleaveMay10after4. One Tues. 4/22 t1ewa1u. Call Anne F. suitcase and will share expenses.
277-1587 after 10:00 p.m. Karen 4-1-5169. 
Lost: suitcase--in between the base­Need ride to Conn. after finals. Can 
ball field and the tennis courts. Lost leave May 9. Share usual. Call Janice 
on Saturday after the baseball game. 7119. Any info• call Keith 1745 
Riders wanted for C.P.A. trip to Indy. 
Call Kevin at 1773. 
N~ed ride from NYC-NJ area to NO May 16 or 17 for graduation. Rob 1105. 
I need ride to MILWAUKEE as soon as possible after May 6. Rick 233-6068. 
ROOMMATE NEEDED to share ex­cellent 2 bedroom apartment for summer and/or fall. 233-6068. 
Wanted: Ride to New Jersey (prefer­ably Monmouth County). Can leave late May 12 or May 13. Call Gina at 8141. 
Wanted: One graduation ticket. Call Doug 287-2793. 
Wanted To Rent Apartment: Help.. 2 female college seniors need small apartment for summer. Reason­able. Write Alm/Leavitt, 402 S. Henderson, Apt. 11, Bloomington, IN 47406 or phone 219/778-4186. 
Need ride to Houston, Tx. or anywhere near for summer. Share usual. George 3598. 
Riders needed: Any Point between here and Omaha. Leave on Sunday the 11th, call Chris 4643. 
Need Ride to Dallas for summt~r. Can leave afternoon, May 11. Call Mike, 3175. Thanks. 
Wanted: Riders to L.A. area after 
commencement. Call Tom 8100. 
Wanted: Need riders to Columbus, 
Ohio-May 1st. Call Melanie 41-4822. 
Help, I desperately need a ride to the_ Washington, D.C. area on May 11, 12 or 13. Few belongings. Call 5407 (SMC). 
Wanted: Riders to Atlanta. . Leave between 10 p.m. on May 9 and 8 a.m. May 10. Call Lee at 1697 or 1738. 
Rider(s) needed to Tallahassee, Fla. or points between on May 13. Must be able to drive standard trans and share expenses. Call Betsy at 6359. 
Help! 1 Need a ride to Florida. Will share driving and expenses. Steve 1062. 
Need ride to Mpls. Can leave May 12 will share usual. No luggage. Call Scott 8260. 
Need Ride to Pittsburgh Area Mon., May 12. Will share usual. Please call Mark 1062. 
NEED RIDER TO SAN DIEGO AREA. 
CALL MIKE 8o31,
'---------------­
Need ride to Phildelpi1ia area anytime after May 10. Will share usual. Call 41-5157 anytime after Sunday night. 
Need ride to Philadelphia anytime between 5/12 and 5/19. Will share driving and expenses. Call Karen 4712. 
For Sale 
For Sale: Ph'D gown-Black-Blue Trim. Cap size 7 and one-fourth. Excellent condition. 232-2617. 
1977 Camaro, silver 28,000 miles, automatic on console, small V-8 8ets 18mpg city, stereo 8-track, $3,0 0. 1978 leMans, maroon, 20,000 miles, automatic small V-6 gets 21 mpg city, Am-Fm stereo-front and rear speak­ers, $3000. Both are in excellent condition. Call Lewis at 1234 week­days, or 288-2961 evenings and week­ends. 
Spring Clearance Sale at Pandora's Books. All news books are 30 percent off and used books are one half off list price or 2 for 1 regular used price. All types of paperback books available. 937 South Bend Ave. Ph. 233-2342. 
Why buy new when used will do­Super Auto-291-6770. Domestic ­Foreign -Truck 
For Sale: Alvarez 6 string acoustic. Call 6369. 
FOR SALE: 1970 Chevy Biscayne. Good running condition. Good run­ning condition. Good interior must sell before graduation. $400 call Mike 3662. 
FOR SALE 
Carpet 12 x 9 Small Table Easy Chair Swivel Chair CALL MIKE 1814  $60 $5 $10 $5  
New King size bed: 76 x 80  

2 boxsprings and mattress-$200.00. with headboard and rails-$300.00. Used king size bed: 2 boxsprings and mattress-$100.00 with headboard and rails-$200.00 Call 1-936-6897 (Plymouth, Ind.) 
Tickets 
Mafia Godfather wants to see me graduate. If I don 'I get ltlm tickets I won't graduate. HELPI!! Mlck-8212 graduation tickets. 
Need 1 graduation ticket. Will pay $$$$. Call Mary Beth-7160. 
Help Stop a Blood Feud!! Need Graduation Tickets! Big Bucks! Call Joe 1621. 
I need graduation tickets. Will pay a reasonable sum. Super scalpers need not call. Bob 287-2793. 
.~ HELP! I need many graduation' tickets. Will pay $$$$. Jeff 8764. 
Desperately need only one graduation 
tic!!! Call Paula6240. 
I nedd 2·4 tlx for THE WHO. Rick 
233-6068. 

Need 2 or 3 grad. tickets. Will pay 
bucks!' Call 3324. 
NEED 1 GRADUATION TICKET. 
CALL BRIAN 233-6208. 
NEEDED: Extra graduation ~lx for relatives. Willing to pay reasonable price call Jima at 4671. 
I NEED UP TO 4 GRADUATION TICKETS FOR MY IMMEDIATE FAMILY. CALL XAVIER 8676. 
NEED 1 GRADUATION TICKET. 
NICK 233-6249. 
Need Graduation Tix: Will pay SS$. 
Call Jim 1703. 
Personals 
D.P., Winnie the Pooh, Christopher Robin, and 1 are going to miss you and your Seagrams next year. • 
Love, Your D.P. 
P.S. Horny and Humpy will, too! 
. .

Kelly, Have fun in Rome next year! I'm going to miss our daily jogs, "see-fooc.,·· panda bear fights, early morning talks, etc. 
Love, Lisa 
Kathy Cannon, You're the greatest partner anyone ever had. A million thanks to the girl of a thousand men's dreams. Happy Birthday. May 8. 
Mike, Have a wild and crazy 20th. Love, Ziggy & the wife 
MAUREEN COYLE and KAREN PHELAN­THANKS SO -MUCH FOR SAVING MY LIFE. 
LOVE, 
P.K. 
P.S. EAT A PEACH! 
D & D Club Picnic Sat. May 311:00-? 
To all my wonderful friends: Thanks for a terrific birthday! Love you all, luann 
Hey! 

I would like to thank all those who 
made my birthday this year very 
special. I especially want to thank 
Pete and whoever else was responsible 
for the party; all of you who took the 
time to come all the way out to Carroll 
on a busy night; everyone in Carroll; 
and those of you who gave me the 
cards, presents, personals, and ~ood 
wishes. I wi!l never forget it! 
----------------Tex 
INTERESTED IN HELPING CORBY'S FIGHT THE LOCAl ALCOHOLIC BOARD'S? SIGN THE TELEGRAM THAT WILL BE SENT TO THE INDIANA ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE COMMISSION. SIGN BEFORE 3AM SATURDAY MAY 3 AT CORBY'S. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MAGGIE! 
Chrissy, Micky, Tonz, P.J., Tom, etc. etc.-THE ABUSE HAS BEEN TAKEN. I'll miss it. 
Yvette 
(Mick-you don't pronounce the 'Y'!) 
Con-

Roses are Red 
Violets are Blue If it w;~sn 't for Cinnabars 
What would you do? Happy Birthday Shlynn 
Lisa Murray-Here's your first and last personal. Little Bro 
Joan Kraemer: Thanks for all your help on An 
Tostal! 1 You were the best assistant publicity chairman ever! Love, Mary 
Dear Jay, Have the happiest birthday ever Monday and Good Luck on your exams! Happy 19th Birthday!! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Tommy and Francie 
Bill Wetterer Walsh thanks you for hosting a great party (and you Jim for being there). It was amemorable finale to an unforget­table season!! 
To the H.C.er's & Archies, Welcome BO's ... Goose's ... mun­
chies? ... K rogers ...Apoge ... Potsie & Joanie...pictures ...bouffonts ... Green St. Pat's...we love preppies...Who got screwed?...24 hr. pareitals ... 2nd floor brew ...mid-night jobs ...10:30 Sundays ... socials... Florida ...Vanites ... unac­ceptable ...switching partners ...abuse ... H.C. F'ormal ...mashing ... 7&7...pic­tures ...The Dead ...That's my favorite song ...Carrs ...24 hr. picnic... kegs ... BBQ'D dogs ... frisbee ... pictures ... lce House ... Godfathers ... Crashman ...Are you in pain? ...Craig ... lt's been fun, not boring! 
Love ya, Karen, Kathy & Colleen 
P.S. Archies--good luck in Rome next year-we're going to miss you' 
Colleen D. 
Wyoming sounds great' Do they have fog there? Just as long as I don't have to catch any buses! I'll miss you. Love, Your D.C. Tourgulde 
Nance Here's your second series of per­sonals. Congrats. Dave 
Happy Birthday Libby Love, A brute and a sickie 
"Skipper" Ver Berkmoes: Lord help you in Baltimore--carry a 
knife ...See Flood City.  you  this  summer  in  the  
Johnny Max  

P.S. Hope to see you back in the Class of '82 come fall. 
OBSERVER PEOPLE OF ALL 
SHAPES AND SIZES Have a great summer and good luck on finals. (A year in business has shortened my tongue). Special thanx to Rosemary, Mike Lewis, Kim Convey, my night editors, Lefty, and Deidre ... 
It's been real ... John McGrath 

Ceil, 
Just aspecial note to someone we all consider very special. Have a beauti­ful summer. (If that's possible in South Bend). Goad luck with your life--you deserve it. 
Love, John McGrath 

Kelly, Be good in Italy. Don't take too many "risks"! Say 'hi to Michelangelo. 
Love, Lisa, Patty, Katie 

P.S. italian men beware' 
A-yotte, Have fun in Italy! I'll miss your "sickness" next year (a little bit anyway). 
Love, Mcilvain 

R.P. McMurphy, So here's my nose-·sort{)f a birthday present, ya know what I mean? 
Love. Reer:er A K.A. Cooee 

To: Joanne Dowd, Rick Pinkowski. Dennis Callahan, Tim Coughlin. Dave Ellison, Nancy Russell, Curt Hench, Mike Day, Mike Kelley, Anne Villen­euve, Kevin Conry, George Roone~-­and everyone in Student Union--many thanks for your help. It's been a great year. 
Tom 

I found Crystal in the Alumni john. 
Watch Mavis do the Be-bop drop. Call 6060-842 for details. It's peachy 
And Bolt, dear, you're a sleepy, pig tailed mud-baby 
Ask Rebo about her bebo's. She's in love, they're all shook liP 
Commodore Schmidt is now Admiral 
M.V.P. Love. the hrat 

.... 

. . ~ .. -....., .. ---.._ ... --. ·-.. --.. --. .. .
~ 
• 
Friday, May 2, 1980 -page 24
S~orts 


Irish wrap up season . 

by Tim Pnster 

one, that being home runs. ieson and senior captain Dan
Sports Writer 

With six batsmen hitting Voellinger have combined for over .300, the Irish have been the lead in nine out of the
The Fighting Irish baseball 

more than capable of offsetting thirteen offensive categories.
squad will wrap up the 1980 

the opposition's longball tac­Jamieson leads the team in
regular season hoping to im­

tics. Heading the list is senior runs scored and hits while
prove upon their 24-7 record 

shortstop Uave Barrish, cur­Voellinger amply fulfills his
with doubleheaders versus 

rently hitting at a sparkling duty as cleanup hitter pacing
Detriot and Bradley this week­

.391 clip. Sophomore Chuck the way in home runs and
end and a twinbill against 

Tasch, who did not start at the RBI's.
Valparaiso Tuesday. 

outset of the campaign, repla~­Dan Szajko and George
Head coach Tom Kelly and 

ed injured Pat Andrews at lams, both natives of South
the Irish are anxiously anticipa­

second base anq has been Bend, not only have contribut­
ting an NCAA post-season 

hitting .380 in the leadoff spot. 
tournament bid, the first such 

Designated hitter Mike Jam-[continued on pa8!!_ 19]bid since 1970. 
"I don't thing we have to sweep this weekend but we do have to play well. Of course if we do sweep, the committee 

. Dinger ends career 
has to give us careful consider­• • • ation.'' commented Kelly. ''The committee must evaluate a couple of things. First they by Mike Henry spring make last season's .343 look at the competitiveness of average and co-MVP award our schedule and secondly they The first thing that attracts (shared with last year's rate difference aspects of the you to Mark Simendinger is the captain, Ricky Pullano) pale in team such as pitchmg, defense smile, accentuated by his compar~son. Kelly is hardly and offense." small, unobtrusive nose and dissatisfied with this season's 
Kelly doesn't have to worry teeth that look as if they may .290 mark and Mark's decline about the committee's evalua-have been borrowed from a m power. cion of the awesome Irish woodchuck. It is the smile that 
''Mark is finally doing whatoffense which is currently hit-highlights the greeting, we've been preaching to himting 324 as a team. In fact, accompanied by a baby blue for two years," Kelly notes.
Dtflorr Hall captured the interha/1 soccer championship, Notre_ Dame leads their oppon-twinkle and a friendly quip, or 1-0, 01.1erFianner yesterday. [photo by Tim McKeogh]. ents m every category except in the cased of Mark's thinner-"He has developed a great deal of patience at the plate and
===========::;;;::==================-================:.=====================· skinned teammates, a pointed
rag that can send the dugout has finally learned to hit with a into an uproar. count on him. Observing the manner in ''When the count gets to 2-0, which Dinger, a native of 3-0,that's the time to wait for
Lacrossefinishes inND Stf,ldium 
Severna Park, Md., conducts the pitch you can hit best. It's himself, at the hot cprner and not necessary to swing at a the entire defense, including as a senior accounting major, 2-0 fastball down th..e
by Kate Huffman 47-point precedt nt for the club freshman goalie, AI Pinado, exemplifies the character and middle if it isn't the pitch
Sports Wn.ter way back in 1967. 
will be returning. Three pride that retiring coach Tom you're looking for.''
A third senior is attackman experienced attackmen, soph­Kelly has instilled in each ·Dinger's patience has paidOn April 16th the word came Mike Caron. Caron, who hails omore Mike Lynch and Steve player that made it through the off to the sweet smell of a teamfrom the athletic office--La-from Wernersville, Penn., has Notre Dame baseball rounds.
crosse had finally gained var-scored 15 goals while contri­Linehan and freshman Jay leading 24 walks and a­
Ortiz will add depth to the But the popular third sacker resounding .436 on-base­sity status at Notre Dame. buting four assists in his final offense in the team's first seems to have evolved into a average. And Mark points out:This Sunday the Notre Dame season at Notre Dame. 
varsity season. With the separate breed of player, and 'The way Dan Voellinger andLacrosse Club will pay tribute Mike Brogan, a four-year return of midfielder Lundblad, on primarily responsible for the Henry Valenzuela have beento six dedicated seniors who player for the club, holds down the team's second leading club's fantastic 24-7 record and ripping the ball, my job is tohelped the club become recog-a midfield position for the scorer this season, and fresh­imminent NCAA tournament get on base, or move Chucknized as a varsity entity. But Irish. The Houston, Tex., 
man midfielder Pace, the team bid. Tsch and Mike Jamieson intetheirs will be an unusual form native has tapped in six goals certainly doesn't seem to be For one thing, Mark still scoring positio~. ~st ye~r Iof gratification. You see, the and four assists for Notre lacking in experience for their holds hope that a pro contract killed a few ralites wtth stnke­seniors are being rewarded by Dame this year. 
premier season in the Midwest is in the cards following grad­outs and popouts, but Kellyhaving the opportunity of play-A third midfielder rounds League. uation. "My summer league and (new head coach) Larrying their final game for the out the list of active seniors-&n ''The competition may be coach, Clayton -;:.acobson, has Gallo worked with me thisIrish in Notre Dame Stadium the team roster Brett Jackson, stiffer next year than it is entered my name in a scouting winter on correcting a majorinstead of on their usual battle-a Crete, Ill., product, has now,'' says the graduating service, and there's a chance flaw in my swing.''
ground behind Stepan Center. scored four goals and added Gehring, "Talent wise, maybe I' II get a tryout with the Indeed, the SimendingerThe game, scheduled to one assist for the Irish in his we won't have the depth to Orioles," Dinger states. "And uppercut is familiar to all whobegin at 2:00p.m., will pit the final season with the club. 
keep up with the bigger teams, I'm pretty determined to play have followed Irish baseball
Irish against Bowling Green, Perhaps the most frustrated but there is nothing lacking in at the Class A level next year.'' fortunes of the past few years. the Midwest's number-five but dedicated player for the 
our desire. ' ' Dinger's contributions this [continued on page 22]
ranked lacrosse club. Irish is club president Bob One of those six seniors who Curley. The Lake Forest, Ill., have long been advocates of a native has been hampered by a knee injury and has seen ~ 
growing lacrosse program at minimal action at the midfield 
R l!p • t •t 
~~~~~n~~m~i~f~~~d:r~~~':,MJ~,e ~~~~tion for the past two sea-e s szgns wo new recruz s 
ginia Beach, Virgima. Norton, junior Carl Lundblad and· "I think that the leadership Notre Dame added two new April 12 in the McDonald's 
Post and Star, Rucker also was
freshman Danny Pace have of the seniors has been a very basketb~ll recruits for next All-America Classic in 
an all-metro pick for the entirecombined to form a strong and important factor this season," year's squad when Barry Oakland, Calif. 
Washington, D.C., area. Thehigh scoring mid&.ine for the says coach Rich O'Leary. Spencer and Cecil Rucker sign-A member of the Michigan O'Connell Christmas Tourna­Irish. Norton has tapped in 18 "Our dependence on them is ed national letters-of-intent all-state squad for 1980, ment all-tourney pick attendsgoals wirh 12 assists for Notre demonstrated by their scoring, this week. -Spencer also was voted to the same high school as formerDame in this, his fourth year we have really been relying on Spencer, a 6-7 three position all-metro teams by both the Irish stars Austin Carr and on the college lacrosse curcuit. them this season.'' star at Catholic Central high Detroit NeVI. s and Free-Press. 
Duck Williams. 
The senior also tend to the Next season, the Irish will ?e school in Detroit, Mich., came He was named captain of the Also an honor roll student,daring face-off chores for the competing in the tough M~d-through with a banner senior Free-Press all-catholic team, Rucker boasts a superb shoot­club. west Lacrosse League wtth . season after missing his entire after Catholic Central was ing touch for a big man. He -N' k G h · W such lacrosse powerhouses as junior campaign with a broken ranked numoer one among
,,·· helped the Washington, D.C.,
tc e nng, a estport, Oht'o State, Denison, and Ohio coot. He fint'shed ·wt'th aver-· 
Conn. native, runs the team' 1' schools in the Detroit area all-metro team defeat a squadoffense. In his third season Wesleyan. ages of 24.5 points, 13.0 re-throughout the season. of high school standouts fr~ with the Irish, Gehring plays "We're looking for strong bounds, seven assists, five Rucker, a 6-8 frontcourt'man the rest of the country hdt the aggressive attackman posi-leadership for next year be-blocked shots and three steals from Mackin High School in month in the Capitol Classic cion. The senior co-captain has cause of the demandmg com-per game for coach Bernie Washington, D.C., averaged played in Washington, D.C. chalked up 25 goals and 20 petition in the Midwest Holowicki. better than 21 points and 13 assists this season to lead the League," says O'Leary. "I Spencer received mention on rebounds for the Trojans as a Previously announcing their club in scoring. Incidentally, think it will take us from two to the Parade and McDonald's senior while boosting his three-plans to attend Notre Dame Gehring is just two points shy three years of building to get prep All-America squads. He year career scorin.g total to were Tom Sluby, a 6-4 swing­of breaking Bob Thibodeau's up to the level of the league." totaled 13 points while playing more than 1,200 pomts. man from Washington, D.C, season scoring record for Notre A positive note for the Irish against other top high school A first-team All-Catholic ]oe Kleine, a 6-11 center from Dame. Thibodeau set the next year might be the fact that stars from around the country choice by both the Washin~ton Slater, Mo. 
_._._.._.__.._~.__._.iiiiiiii~iiii.;~iiiiiiiiii._iim.~ii;n~~~~··•iwi~~Ki-=m._mriUt~i-~.
·~~;ii.~~ijl~~-=iiii.;••=·--~;;.-;;;;o~-a.;mwa.aai.-.--.ii..iBaa• 
.. 

----· --~~----------~----~-------------------------------------------------------------------------­






