-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-----­
• 
The Pops -page 10
' ' ' 

V U L. Xl V, NU. ~u lHUH.~DAY, H:B!{UAH.Y 7, ~~~u 
New construction N.M. prison struck with.

obstructs students 
by Sal Granata Senior StaffReporter 
Don Dedrick, director of the Physical Plant at Notre Dame, advises students to avoid walk­ing through the construction sire for the new Stepan Chemi­stry Hall. The area presents a Hazard to the Notre Dame community which Dedrick said 
· "could be pretty dangerous." Dedrick hopes that "students will use common sense for their own protection." The site, just north of the Arts and Letters CoHege, runs east from Nieuwland, over Juniper Road to the Radiation Lab. The excavarion has been cordoned off by a snow fence. Students, howe.;'er, have been crossing the site frequently and have knocked down portions of the fence at night. Dedrick said he would prefer "students nor to walk through the fenced-in area, but to go around the Radiation building instead,'' in order to get to O'Shaugnessy. ''Students should nor be walkjng on the loading dock," he said. The excavation cur across Juniper Road after workers ran into a ten-inch waterpipe. Today work starts on a sewage line and Job Supervisor Bernard Foster reports that deeper curs will commence this week mak­ing the foundation potentially dangerous to students. The Grounds Department has been instructed to build a new sidewalk in the spring. The department has built a fence on the South side of the Lab to discourage traffic. The fence was termed a 'failure' by one construction worker. Dedrick has provided an alter­nate route for students and allowed a passage around the Field House. Bur the University has failed to ~blicize the measures. According to University sour­ces, there have been no acci­dents yet. Technically, the H.G. Christ­man Construction Co. Inc. is responsible for safety on the site. Christman Co. erected the fence. They are unable to prevent students from crossing while the gates are open or at night. Foster said that he was coordinating safety efforts with 
N.D. Security and Don Dedrick, but conceded, "Its pretty hard to keep the students our." 
Although no caution signs have been hung around the perimeter, Foster said they would be up soon. A spokesman from Christman's main office said that the signs and fence are standard procedure for · blocking off a construction site. "It'll suffice if students don't break it down," Dedrick said. 
One particular hazard at Notre Dame seems to be the students. Parts of rhe fence have been torn and the gates forced open. Where the fence has been left open for loading operations at the Radiation Lab, students have walked through, oblivious ro the hazards of ice and constructwn acnvtty. 
Solid Construction Co., which is building the new residential 
halls  on  campus  have  had  
similar  experiences  with  stu­ 
dents.  
Yesterday,  Foster  left  the  
gates  open  to  alleviate  the  

bottleneck near O'Shaugnessy. But he said that he will have to be stricter in the future, "We'II be running water drains very deep and I'II have to close it off again." 
Outside the fence, the Univer­sity is supposed to provide for the student's safety. Bur the University has been slow to respond to the possibility of accidems. A meeting was held last week in which precautions were discussed, but the infor­mation was nor disseminated to students. 
The NNre Dame General Counsel's office reiterated the clause that states the school is not liable for accidems on the grounds as long as a reasonable effort is made to maintain them. 
contznues on new pan Chemistry Hall. North Quad students have suffered much inconvenience jn their dazly trek to O'Shaughnessy Hall. See related story at left. [Photo by Tom jackman] 
Iranian government repudiates radical U.S. Embassy militants 
(AP) -Iranian President Abol­hassan Bani Sadr, taking on the 
U.S. Embassy militants directly for the first rime, attacked them as lawless "dictators" yester­day after they engineered the arrest of a government minister as an alleged ally of the CIA. 
Later yesterday in what could prove to be the government's second rebuke of the young Moslem radicals holding the Embassy, authorities at Tehran airport detained a 49-member American delegation as it arriv­ed in the Iranian capital at the invitation of the militants. 
Western journalists in Tehran quoted airport sources as say­ing there was confusion over the status of rhe Americans' entry visas. The sources said the group might be kept over­night at the airport and then be sent back to the United Stares. 
The developments seemed to foreshadow a possible show­down between the militants and Bani Sadr's emerging govern­ment that could -affect the fate of the approximately 50 Ameri­cans held hostage at the embas­sy for 95 days. 
Iranian leader Ayatollah Ru­hollah Khomeini and his Revo­lutionary Council have accepted a U.N. plan for an investigation 
of the  ex-shah's  regime  that  
American  officials  hope  will  
lead  to  the  release  of  the  
hostages.  

Bur rhe Iranians continued to make conflicting statements Wednesday about whether and 
when  the  hostages  would  be  
freed.  
Bani  Sadr's  bitter  denuncia­ 

tion of rhe militants followed the arrest of the minister of national guidance and informa­tion, Nasser Minachi. 
The militants alleged in a national television broadcast Tuesday evening that docu­ments they found in rhe embas­sy showed rhat Minachi had "close links with the CIA." The minister, who denied the char­ges, was arrested by the militia­like revolutionary guards at his home at about midnight. 
Bani Sadr denounced the ar­rest as unauthorized by th~· state prosecutor, and assailed the state radio-television sys­tem for giving air time to the militants without prior govern­ment approval. 
In an interview with the Teh­ran newspaper Kayan, he said the embassy militants were paving the way for lawlessness 111 Iran and he called them "dictators" who have created a government within a govern­ment. 
"How could you expect a government employee to go to work feeling secure?'' he ask­ed. "No legal or judicial securi­ty in the country . . . will undoubtedly lead to disorder.'' 
It was the strongest attack yet on the militants by Bani Sadr, who has taken over as head of the Revolutionary Council, 
which  will  be  dissolved  after  
parli<!mentary  elections  sche­ 
duled for March.  

t£:ummut:d uti pagt: 1-tj 

new violence 
SANTA FE N.M. (AP) ­Inmates set fires and flooded cells in a new round of violence at the riot-torn New Mexico State Penitentiary, and officials said yesterday they were trying to expedite the transfer 
ot  hardcore-criminals  out  of  
stare.  
No injuries  were  reported  in  

the Tuesday night outburst, which began after maximum­security prisoners were moved back into a cellblock. 
Gov. Bruce King's news sec­retary, Jill Marron, said the group involved in the flare-up included men believed to be nngleaders in the 36-hour weekend uprising that left at least 36 inmates dead at the sr~re · s only maximum-security pnson. 
·They set mattresses, paper and blankets on fire,'' she said. 
''Officers entered the cellblocks to extingui'>h the fires and bring the situation under control.'· 
The violence was the first since National Guardsmen and a Santa Fe police special weap­ons team moved into the peni­tentiary Sunday to take back control from the prisoners. 
State Liquor Director Jim Baca a spokesman for the prison, termed the latest disturbance ··minor''. 
Hundreds of prisoners who had spent three nighrs huddled in blankets on a prison recrea­tion yard were back inside the penitentiary .yesterday, with the '·exception ot the blacks who elected to stay out.·' Baca said. 
''The blacks will be housed in 
"[CUII/lf/Ut:d Ull p..tgt: ) j 
SMC Judicial Board hands down sanctions to partiers 
by Pam Degnan Senior StaffReporter 

The Saint Mary's Judicial Board handed down sanctions last night to the Lc:Mans Hall residents who were _involved in violating party regulattons. The students who recerved the sanctions, however, refused to comment on the nature of the sanctions, The Observer learned last night. · 
"I don't want to talk about it. I thought what the Board decided was fair enough," one student said. "We all talked about it and agreed that it would not be in our best interest to talk to The Observer.'' 
An anonymous spokesperson re~resenting one of the group of students involved commented that "we have all agreed not to talk about it and we would appreciate it if you would not print anything in the paper. Stop trying to contact us." 
The sanctioning stems from parties that were held in LeMans Hall two weeks ago. Several of the parries were described as being niosy and uncontrollable according ro students who voiced complaints. As a result of the parties, the greenhouse was broken into and fire extinguishers in the LeMans basement were destroyed. . 
When asked if she could divulge any information concerning the Judicial Board's decision, one RA explained that "only the students themselves can speak out on what happened to them. I can't break a promise of confidentiality.'' 
Judicial Commissioner Martha Boyle was unavailable fer comment. 
,• 


Ne-ws in brief 
Thursday, February 7, 1980 -page 2 

Catholics protest alleged Vatican muzzling of Kung 
WEST BbRLIN, N.J. (AP) -A group of 169 Roman Catholic clergy and lay people has p"rotested the Vatican's censure of a prominent the'Jlogian, the Rev.Hans Kung, and asked it to revoke its procedures. They were "contrary to the whole spirit" of the Gospel and of reforms and the 1962-65 Second Vatican Council, said the appeal to Cardinal Franjo Seper, head of the Vatican's Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith. Its action, demanding that Kung be stripped of his credentials as a Catholic theology professor at West Germany's Tubingen University, came without discussion with him and ''without even minimal procedures of due process bur in fact in the• greatest of secrecy,'' the protest said. 
jimmy 's boycott unheeded, Olympics still receive bucks 
NEW YORK (AP)-Even after President Carter threatened in 
early January to call for a boycott of the Olympic Games in 
Moscow, Americans sent money at "a furious rate" to fu~d 
the u·.s. team, says an analyst of the U.S. qlymptc 
Committee's fund-ratsing figures. But Alan Sack, semor vtce 
president of Hub Mail Advertising in Boston, said y~sterday 
u's too early to tell how the boycott threat hangmg over 
the Summer Games will affect fund-raising. Meanwhile 
yesterday, NBC, which is pa_yi!lg $35 mi~lion for _te~evision 
ri~hts in Moscow plus $52 mtlhon for equtpment, 1s msured 
wtth Lloyds of London against the non-appearance of a l!.S. 
team and will certainly pull out if there are no Amenc~n 
athletes. It has paid most of the IOC's share o~ the money tn 
installments, and the IOC would have to pay It back. 

Weather 
Mostly cloudy and cold with snow flurries. Highs in the mid to upper 20s. Fair and cold Thursday night. Low around 10. Partly cloudy Friday and cold. w1t~ a cha_nce of snow developing by late in the day. Htghs tn the mtd 20s. 

12-4 GOVERNMENT CAREER DAY sponsored by placement bureau for students of all majors LAFORTIJNE BALL ROOM 
1: 15 pm SEMINAR ''role of tumor cell membranes in their susceptibility to immune killing," dr. seymour k. schlager, nat'l cancer institute, spon. by microbiology dept., 102 GALVIN 
4 pm SEMINAR ''catalized and uncatalized bromate oscillators-free radicals in action,'' dr. richard field, spon. by radiation lab, ND CONFERENCE ROOM-RADIATION LAB 
5-6:30 pm CARNATION SALE spon. by badin hall SOUTH DINING HALL 
6:30 pm MEETING leadership training class spon. by campus crusade for christ LEWIS HALL REC ROOM 
6:30pm CAMPAIGN meeting baker for president spon. by baker for president campaign 2-D LAFORTUNE 
7,9,11 pm FILM "casablanca" ENGR. AUD. $1 
7:30pm JAPANESE FILM SERIES "drunken angel" spon. by depts. of speech and drama and modern and classical languages WASHINGTON HALL $1 
7:30 pm BASKETBALL notre dame women vs purdue-calumet A.C.C. 
9 pm MEETING ohio farmworkers support comm. all tlldwme LAFORTIJNE BALLROOM 
9-11 pm STUDENT FACULTY RECEPTION wine and cheese party, dancing, tickets not sold at door only from jec reps, spon. by joint engineering council, 1ST FLOOR FI17..PA 'IRICK $I 
'J-12 pm NAZZ open stage 
Half of U.S. guilty 


Overcrowding plagues prisons 
Editor's/Note: This story pro­vides background to the not story on page I. 
~The Observer-
Night Editor: Pam ''figure­head'' Degnan Asst. Night Editor: Captain Ver Berkmoes, Deirdre Mur­phy, Eddie "Dr. Death" Holden Copy Editor: Mike Onufrak Layout Staff: Mary Silvi & Co. (Mary S., Mosilvi, & MS) News Ed£tor: Mark Rust Editonal Layout: Colleen Sloan 
. Features Layout: Sal Grana­ta, Kate Karrell Sports Layout: Mark Perry Typists: Kate Huffman, Mi­chelle Kelleher, George Bi­ron, Nancy Russell EMT: S. Paul Selavko, Kathy Festin Proofreader: Bruce Oakley SMC Day Editor: Cece Ba­liles Photographer: Tom Jackman Guest Appearances: Patsy "Shotgun" Campbell, Re­negade, NFO'B,davewenn­hoff and Darryl Reyes 
Tile Observtr [USPS • 120) Is published Monday through friday II• cept during exam and viCIUIII periods. The Observer is publislltd by 1111 
students of Notre 011111 llld Saint Mary's Cllltgl. SublcripUIII lillY Ill purcbntd lor S20 per ,_ IS11 per .....ttrlf,_ The Observer, P.O. ba Q, No ban, llldiau 411111. s-d ctau ':&7. paid, Nttrl Oltnl, ltt­
dilftl . 

The Observer i1 a ........, II 1M Asladatld Prill. AH i~du&:ltll rtgllts .,. l'lllrwd. 
• 
(AP) -Prisons in nearly h.J.lf the states currently house more inmates than they were built to hold, and in the wake of the prison riot in New Mexico, some officials say similar dis­turbances are an ever-present threat. 
"It's only a matter of time before we'll have the same thing in Wyoming," said Du­ane Shillinger, warden of the state penitentiary at Rawlins, Wyo. 
"Yes, we're worried," said Virginia Department of Correc­tions spokesman Wayne Farrar. 
"You start to feel the pinch when you're 80 to 85 percent of capacity, and we began feeling that J?inch long ago. There will certamly be future problems if nothing is done to cope with the situation. We have been for­tunate, so far. ' ' 

In California, whose state prisons house 20,702 inmates, about a 100 more than they were designed for, corrections department spokesman, Philip Guthrie said. "I don't want to indulge in any self-fulfilling prophesies , but the more crowded you get, the more likely some riot of life-threaten­ing situation." 
Overcrowding is just one of many causes of pnson unrest, 
lt."UJ'IItnued on page 13 j 
MASS 


followed by 
. supper 
every
FRIDAY at the 
A COMPANY ~LLED TRW WILL BE ON CAMPUS 
FEBRUARY 8 
TO INTERVIEW GRADUATES IN SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL DISCIPLINES 
CONTACT THE PLACEMENT OFFICE TO SCHEDULE YOUR APPOINTMENT. 
IF UNABLE TO MEET WITH US, 
SEND YOUR 
RESUME TO: 

c~TRW 
DEFENSE AND SPACE SYSTEMS GROUP 
College Relations & Educational Prog!"llma Dept. ND2/1 , R5/B196, One Space Part!., Redondo Beach, California 90278 

·~·-------------------------------------------------­
r 
The Observer Corruption scandal. . . 





Indictments due in 30 days 
WA_SHINGTON (AP) -The J ~st.tce pepartment expects ~nmmal mdtctments in 90 days !n t~e corruption scandal that tmphcates at least eight mem­bers ofCongress and reportedly has spread to high levels of the New Jersey state government. 
Chagrined by press disclo­sures of the FBI investigation, Attorney General Benjamin Civil,etti asked Congress yester­day not to conduct separate inquiries that might jeopardize federal prosecutions. 
I~ Co~~ress persists, Civil~tti satd, . a number of guilty individuals ~ay go unprosecu­ted or unpumshed.'' 
Knowledgeable sources said the FBI has shut down several ?ther unde~c~wer investigations m several clUes rather than risk disclosure because of scandal publicity that began last week­end. · 
The sources, who asked not to be identified, said the other discontinued' undercover oper­ation~ were \ ''showing great promtse_'' ~f rroducing signifi­cant cnmma 'charges. None involved a member of Congress the sources said. · 
White House .press secretaryJody Powell said President Carter and Civiletti had a "general conversation" T ues­d~y abo~t the .~se, bu.t they dtd not dtscuss a m detatl. 
While congresgoional ethics panels ~ebate1 whet~er to. go ahead wtt~ thetr own tnvesttga­twns, the frenton (N.J.) Times reported the FBI was investiga­ting at least six prominent New Jt;rs~y figures, including top of~CJals ofGov. Brendan Byrne 
aummtstrat tot,. t\nnthi.T n.-.·.·:::!ptF· \ d 
.. .. : . ·;  I . ..t:~~['­·i~.~;--,:1 i-'• ·: t ·: r:( : ·_  ' . ~ ~r  ·.·,,·... ·.I: .:__.-.."'.·:_··,·t'; ' ·:·;·.!~,·-~;•.• · --;.:  
,.l'  
.  H  

~! -~ : -~ . '!> • ! . 
• 
" : . 
i.\•r•!t and (in::r-::1 u.~. . nt<,.! inv~·lvemcn:. :·IF !;t'···.·>-pa-pcr 
re-poned yesterday that Sen. Birch Bayh, D-lnd., was under investigation in the same case. But sources familiar with the case called that report erron­

• • • Riot 
lcuntmued }rum page i J 
an annex," Baca said. " It is my understanding that quite a few of them will be moved to other prisons.'' 
Officials have said that much of the violence during the reign of terror was directed at infor­manrs, bur Dr. Marc Urner the 
. ' 
pnson psychologist, said racial tensions also were involved. 
King said he hoped to move more than half of the I ,07 3 pnsoners w:1n have been an "unrcd for :;1 :-;tate and ; cd, r~d t.~r-i_,. jn.... '. ~~ .. ;_: ·<]-...... ': ­
;:_r[ '. '..! .. ,: I ".. ·. ~ ; ' 
-.~.; .·. .. 
. ' 
said two other, unidentified Del Tufo, who has refused to members of the casino commis­discuss the probe, was nomi­sion were under investigation in nated as federal prosecutor by 
Sen. Harrison A. Williams Jr.,

addition to Kenneth MacDon­
D-N.)., one of th.e members of

ald, who resigned Monday. 
Congress allegedly involved inSources told the Times that the scandal. ·the Justice Department shifted The others are Kelly and Johnresponsibility for the bribery Murphy, D-N.Y.; Frank Thom­

probe from U.S. Attormey Robert Del Tufo in Newark to pson Jr., D-N.J;, Michael the Brooklyn office because Myers, D-Pa., Raymond Leder­
some subjects of the inquiry er, D-Pa.;JohnJenrette, D-S.C had learned of it through Del and John Murtha, D-Pa. Most 
Tufo's office. have denied any wrongdoing. · 
• • .Involves Congressmen _ 
FBI wiretaps phones 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A wire­trucking rates and routes from tapped telephone conversation extensive government regula­led the FBI to investigate Sen. tion. The administration argues Howard Cannon, D-Nev., for that industry decisions about possibly improper dealings with routes and rates should be a Teamsters union figure. s_ubject to free market competi­
But Cannon, chairman of the uon. Senate Commerce Committee Last year, Cannon waged a said he spoke to FBI Directo; successful battle to have his William Webster, who told him committee take jurisdiction he is not under investigation. over deregulation proposals 
The FBI had no comment on from Sen. Edward M.Kenne­Ca1_1non's report of the conver­dy' s Senate Judiciary Com­sation. mmee. 
Sources familiar with the case One deregulation bill never con~rmed that FBI agents con­got out of Cannon's committee d~ctmg. a ~ajo~ organized but Cannon noted that last cnme mvesttgaoon overheard Friday he introduced an alter­Ca~non in a telephone conver­nate deregulation plan which sation last year with Allen the Teamsters oppose. Dorfman,. a Chi~ago business­The FBI, sources said, was man previOusly mvolved in the investigating whether Cannon Teamsters J)mon pension fund had tried to kill the first bill in scandal. return for a favor from Dorf­
The conversation was heard on man. a .telephone rapped by the FBI But Cannon insisted he had wtth a court warranr, said the never tried to kill the bill and 
·•>urcc..: who asked not to be :hat his talk wiLh Dorfman had :,:"niiiit'd. Ir could not be noth:ng W Ju •,:,.i: h derr-!··ub: ;,,n ·L···nn!;<d ·;vh:·rh~r it w·, ·n;;": ,,,,·,, L . 0 

. ·.71
:tp-. '~ .tf· 

., . I 
' I 
. ,. 
I: . 
. 

~ . t.. i-~ :_: t J i -! ! !' . . ! ---' ~ 
:·.-' ;LJ~i: .. ~ .-' ,.' ­
~-·~c ::,;,,,rr· ;[!J,f ,>·;· i':-:c:-n ~=-c~-lH \" n---~-:--~=r ~-~----~;-<'-~ -.-c'i <':1·, '··av.: Oj:•posed Caner ad­whJCh .'<·na~;,· .., '"lnl WT .'hould · rnin:c-:rr·d ion effort~ to free . gt·t the deregulation bill. 
Also, the Wall Street Journal 
eous. The sources said the investi­He said some inmates who had gation involving Dorfman isbeen held in protective security well under way, with agentsalso would be moved to other pursuing leads in seven cities ­pnsons. 

Chicago, Las Vegas, San Diego, Some of those killed were Kansas City, Mo., New Orleans horribly mutilated. Inmates Milwaukee and Cleveland.

said an execution squad armed with blowtorches and axes was 
responsible for some of the Ir-------------------~-------------~-----,
, 

murders. 
1 $1.00 off any pitcher of beer I 
I 

S~pporters I
1


n(Baker 1 
.

.ola·~ ~·:n-·J• (7'' ..... ,.,... ·~ -f r''·ng
,,.,. _,

b 
. i/ '·' .{' ;,.j ,~. /../;-·. !' . 
. '.I • 
• 
'1 I, 
_, 

Thursday,· February 7, 1980 -page 3 · · 

FLY fROM SOUTH BEND TO FOR.1" "LAlJDERDAl.E/ 
r'l.'l\ 'f. ...., '!' r -! -:10 
-.. • · 'J ~ "'-' c"";, -1 
..__..#•.. ""1 . .. .: •. ·.:· .' ...._ / 


'.,~ . ~. -.,,,.' . 
' --~~ . ' ~ . -. ~~--._._, ...---'."' , ~­
. i ' . 
; . 

. -: . 
....~ .-1o··
~ ~ .· 


.i 


also available National Car Rentals 
DEPARTS MARCH 29 RETURNS APRIL 5 for reservation information call Shaz 232-6831 or call toll-free 1-800-848-9540 arrangements by Student Sun Trips, Inc. 
I 
I

Good only Thursday 2/7/80 1 ~eOQ to close at .I 
I 
t 
.,
-~--~~~·~ 

.. 

·• 
~~~-·{., 
;· 
.;· 


-.....~. ...-, , ~-i -. 1 " ~ ' 
.• ':' I;' ~ 
·' 

-----=---.-. -~~11181~~----*--~,__, ...~'IID--~­
.. 

........--.--.-_...........__ .:&··· :. -.·p ',-e .· --.:··:· :.' J,.. .....~ ~...,..._ 'T"""f""'" ""'!" _.. -~­
111 ., • .. .......... ~ ...... f' ... -.. .• • .. 
."" .. -~~ .. -....... • ...4.-•• 4 ......... ..,. ·~-·-···~. "t ."'. /'V.--· • .-...1f....,_.-,;: 


The Observer Thursday, February 7, 1980 -page 4 

Despite Dean Roemer's request for students to stay off the lakes, these students shovel offa skating rink. See story below. [Photo by Tom jackman] 
Roenz,er warns about ice fun 
Dean of Students James Roe­mer has issued the following statement: Students are already skating on the lake. The weath­er has not been cold long enough to provide a sufficient thickness. We think there is a good chance that someone will fall in while skating or walking on the ice. 



Junior Parents' Weekend 
Reservations for seating arrangements for the President's Dinner. may be made at LaFortune in front of student activities office during the following times: 
Tuesday Feb.  12  llam-2pm  
Wednesday Feb. 13  llam-2pm  
Thursday  Feb.  14  llam-2pm  

Tabies seat nine (9) people. If no reservations are made then you will be placed randomly ar a table. Questions -call)im Veraldi' 8895 


Both students and armed leftists hold hostages in San Salvador 
SAN SALA V ADOR El Sala­vador (AP) -Armed leftists oc­cupying the Spanish Embassy vowed yesterday to hold the building and eight hostages, including the Spanish ambassa­dor, ''until our demands have been satisfied." 
Leftist high school students also continued their occupation of the Education Ministry, hold­ing Education Minister Edu­ardo Colindres and hun­dreds of other hostages. The students invaded the Min­istry Tuesday demanding a 40 percent reduction in tuition at private colleges, expanded en­rollment at free public universi­ties and dismissal of some ministry officials. A spokesman for the students said they ranged in age from 13 to 18, and the occupation was peace­ful. It was not known if they are armed. 
At the embassy, yesterday, crowds chanting slogans ga­thered omside. They brought bags of food for the leftists, members of the Feb. 28 Popular Leagues, or LP-28. 
The militants released three Salavadoran employees of the embassy Tuesday night but were still holding Ambassador Victor Sanchez Mesa,embassy counselor Juan Carlos de Ra­mero, Chancellor Manuel de Ia Helguera, three Spanish em­ployees and two Spanish indus­trialists who were visiting when it was seized. 
The Ambassador told an Asso­ciated Press reporter allowed into the embassy the Red Cross was supplying food to the hostages and had allowed a doctor to visit him. He has a history of heart problems. 
The three diplomats said they slept on couches in the ambas­sador's office on the second floor. 
Sanchez Mesa said that the militants received telephoned threats from rightists who­who vowed to burn the building if the leftists did not free the hostaghes and leave. 
The leftists demand that Spain break relations with San Salva­dor that a human rights team from the Organization of Amer­ican States visit the country, and that four of their allegedly arrested over the weekend and a fifth seized Tuesday be freed. 
A government spokesman denied that the LP-28 members are in custody. But Sanchez Mesa said in an interview on Mexican television that he had been told by junta member Col. Adolf Arwoldo Majano that ''It would not be impossible'' to meet the militants demands. 

Last week, 37 persons died in Guatemala City, which had been seized by peasants to press for reforms. Spain broke relations with Guatemala over the incident. 
LP-28 takes its name from the date of a 1977demonstration in which police fired on a demon­straion and killed several perso. LP-28 and a half dozen militant left-wing groups accuse the ruling junta of not carrying out the social and economic reforms it promised after overthrowing the right-wing military regime of President Carlos Humberto last October. 
Ali visits African nations to boost Olympic boycott 
i\iAHUJl::H, Kenya. (AP) -Mu­hammad Ab, buxer-turned­presJdentJal envoy, took h1s <.:ampa1gn agamst the Mus<.:uw Olymp~<.:s across Atrxa to NJ­gena yesterday atter skt:tchmg out a new rule tor htmselt as an enemy ut South Atn<.:a. 
Ali also made It clear dunng 


fhese students, on the threshold_of.an excursion into the delights of dining ecstasy, obvwusly have doubts that the fare znslde wdl be worth the wait. [photo by Tom jackman]. 
Senate ponders income tax cut using windfall profits 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A House -Senate conference committee, after scoring a major break­through on President carter's "windfall profits" tax on the oil industry, is trying to debde if pan of the money should fi­nance an income rax cut for individuals. 
A path for final action on the tax bill was cleared Wednesday when the conferees broke a two-week stalemate and agreed rhar the tax on the oil industry should remain in effect at least until Sept. 39, 1990. 
Still to be decided 1s an unrelated amendment, aimed at stimulatingamericans to save and invest more. It would ket an individual avoid income taxes on up to $201 a year-$400 for a couple-in interest and divi­dends 
Aides to rhe conference comit­tee have proposed a spending package that would ucket at least $85 billion for individual tax cuts in the 1980's, with the first installment in October 1981. 
•The proposal also envisions federal aid od at least $4 billion a year to help lower income Americans cope with rising energy costs and provide incen­tives for energy conservaripn, development of non-oil resour­
[continued on page 7] 

a two-day stay ll1 Kenya that 1t he was gumg to be a dtplumat tlits week, he would do ll h1s way, regardless ut the U.~. ::,tate Depanmem adv1surs ac­curnpanymg h1m and regardless ut ~uvtet attempts to persuade hun to cancel the tour. 
Although on a U .~. govern­ment-sponsored tnp to t1ve nauuns, Ah d1d nut hesHate to cnuuze the Unaed ~tares, along wah lsrael, as supporters ut ··the No. 1 trouble spot on the planet--raust, devJitsh, slavtsh South Atn<.:a. He gave South Atn<.:a as much attention m speeches as h1s declared mtsston--ru encourage bla<.:k Atm:ans to stay away trum the Summer OlymptL Games 111 J\1uscuw as a protest over the Suvtet mvastun ot Atghan,stan. 
::,uuth Atn<.:a Js suppuned by so many counrnes, lsrael, A­mertca, dulllg busmess--lt would be dJttt<.:ult tor us tu get some atrplanes and some guns and sume bombs and solve the problem, Alt sa1d. ··Allah, God wtll ttnd a way tu tree our people. 
1he new theme retle<.:ted All· s Increased awareness that many black Atn<.:ans are crttJ<.:al ot U.::,. cunta<.:rs with South Atnca. Ali was stanled when ianzaman repuners asked h1m ~unday about U.~. dealmgs wHh ~uuth Atnca, and sa1d he m1ght not have a<.:cepred President Car­ter s asstgnmem and he been aware ut these lmks. 
Amencans travehng wnh All satd he seemed wurned that blaek Atn<.:an <.:undemnauun ut U.::,. pullues mtght rub ott on hun. In an 11Herv1ew to be published 1hursday by the Natrubt lJa11y Nauon, east At­nca·s largest daJ!~·. Ah IS quoted as saymg 1anzaman PresJ<Jent Julms Nyerere was nght to retuse tu meet hm1 1t Nyerere .. thought 1 was cummg as a tool ut Amenca. · · 
1-requemly, dunng appear­an<.:es wHh Kenyan spurts ot­ituals, rehgwus leaders, and reporters, Ail took care to emphasize that he was the must popular man m the world, dedJcated to black and Moslem <.:auses and nut ··a white man·s mgger ... 1 am nut here to be pushed around to sell Amencan pultCJes. '· 
[continued on page 5] 


-· ...
".. ·~J• ~~; l'·' {, ·• • .J.r) :'. )i·n· ~• '.~ 1•. '~ t \'d 2H1"'V /• 
' ·~ .............. ·..:-• a:-~~-......... '\.If•~· ........... -..... .
".1'~·····~·~-~~~·1.~·~· .,..........~..... ----· _.., .:.•A.. ·"1$# 
....................------------------------------------------------------~·~ 
r ---· 

The Observer Thursday, February 7, 1980 -page 5 
In Afghanistan 

Soviets accuse Chinese 'advisors' 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Soviets claimed W:ednesday that Chi­nese '' advtsors'' are in Afgha­nistan alongside Moslem re­bels. "Thousands" of the anti­communist rebels, the Soviets added, are receiving training in base camps in China for their fight against the Moscow-back­ed Afghan government. 
The Soviet news agency Tass said the Chinese often accom­pany Afghan rebels across the frontier into Afghanistan, which shares a small border in the northeast with China as well as a large northern border with the Soviet Union. 
"We have facts indicating that Chinese 'advisers' and 'instruc­tors often accompany their 'charges' on the bandit raids so as to show in practice the methods of struggle against the 
Afghan n:voludon," Tass said 
in .1. dispatch from Kabul, the 
Afghan capital. 
An estimated 85,000 Soviet 
troops have been in Afghani­
stan since late December fol­
lowing the execution of former 
Afghan leader Hafizullah A­
min, who was replaced with 
Soviet-backed President Babrak 
Karmal.The United States, Chi­
na, and a host of western allies 
and Third World nations have 
condemned the Soviet interven­
tion 
Jn other developments: 
India's Foreign Secretary R.D. Sathe assured Pakistani Presi­dent. Mohammad Zia ulHaq that Indai will try to persuade Moscow ro withdraw its troops from Afghanistan, Indian jour­
.nalists repoted from Islamabad. They quoted Sathe as saving 
In Beirut 
Soviets withdraw troops 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -The are poised to take over positions 
Lebanese governmen~ vowed evacuated by the Syrians. 
yesterday to replace withdraw­The Lebanese army split along 
ing Syrian peacekeeping troops sectarian lines during the civtl 
at key points in and around war. It since has been rebuilt to 
Beirut, risking clashes with a force of about 20,000 men, 
Palestinian and leftist Moslem 10,000 of them battle-ready, 
gunmen in the same areas. with the help of American 
The 5,000 Syrian troops in the military aid. 
capital, part of a 22,000-man Well-informed sources believe 
force keeping the peace since the new army could take over 
the 1975-76 civil war, remained the port area and many posi­
at their positions. Syrian Presi­tions along the "green-line," 
dent Hafez Assad said Monday but they say it would be difficult 
the withdrawal would be delay­to assume responsibility for 
ed for a few days to give the security in all of Beirut. 
Lebanese time to take over. 
the message would be convevea when Soviet Foreign Minister .\ndrei Gromyko arrives in New Delhi next week for talks with Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. She has said the intervention was unjustified but was refrain­ed from condemning it. 
President Zia, whose country also borders Afghanistan, sug­gested an international peace force should replace the Soviet troops. In reply to a question from visiting Indian journalists, Zia said the force would allow Afghans to decide their own issues without foreign inter­ference. He also termed as "incorrect" and "a matter of propaganda'' Soviet charges that the Moslem rebels are launching forays into Afghan. territory from bases in Paki­stan. 
The rebels are facing a severe shortage of arms and ammuni­tion, according to Italy's largest daily, Milan's Carriere della Sera. "When a guerrilla has fired his daily allowance of 25 bullets he can just hurl stones," it quoted a rebel leader as saying. It reported fighting "in the whole country." 
Afghan Foreign Minister Shah Muhammed Dost was quoted by Tass as saying the United States and China are countries from which "a threat to Af­ghanistan really comes from" because they are both supply­ing neighboring Pakistan. The 
U.S. governmem has offered Pakistan $400 million in mili­tary and economic aid and says 
the  Pakistani  armed  forces  
must  be  bolstered  to  meet  a  
p~>tential  threat  from  the  So­ 
viets.  





s JOBS 

Grq<bte, ri tJrdc:t9!M.,~ st~ seek!oq pyobssitnal 
EMPLOYER; JOB DESCRIPTION: 
LOCATIONS: SALARY: 
IKTERVIEW DATE: SIGN-UP DATE: COli'!"ACT: 
pa.O Q',-•ew o tbcic f·«~ of wn,. 
ENV!RONIE!(I"AL III'TERN PROGRAM • !.OllER GRE.'T LAlES 
The EnviroftWntol Intem Proaraa/~r Gteat Lakes is 1 non-proflt educatianol prorraa which places qualified individuals ia 1a1aried intemships with corporations, cova.,...tal apAcies and --profit oraanizations. Theoe environaentally related positions offer students the opportunity to work with professi..,.ls .., cloall.,.linl contnporary projects. EIP suppl-ts each iatemship vith .., educational proaru of wrksllops, educational ateriall, and consultations vi th EI P staff. 
OHIO, INDIANA, MICHIGAN AND IIESTERH PENNSYLVAJIIIA 
Each intem is paid a weekly salery ruain& fr• $125.00 to $375.00. Refer to specific job descriptions for deteilo. 
lFEBRUARY 13, 11180.\ 
IIEEl Of FEBRUARY 4 , 1980. 
PLACEMENT BUREAU, ~ 213, Adainistration IUildin&· 
I 
I 
j 
j 
1 
1 
~ 
' 
j j j j j 
I 
~ 
I 

Beirut was quiet except for sniper exchanget in the port area which straddles the heavi­ly-fortified ''green-line'' sepa­rating the mostly-Christian 

• • .Ali 
eastern sector from the mostly­Moslem western part. 
The only positions the Syrian troops have in the Christian secwr are in fringe areas near the Beirut-Damascus road. 
President Elias Sarkis and Premier Salim el Hoss chaired the Cabinet meeting Wednes­day that decided "to ask the Lebanese army command to make all necessary prepara­tions at once for filhng any security vacuum along the green-line and around the vital public utilities and other esta­blishments and administrations of state.'' 
The Syrians protect a civil war armistice that separates the rightest Christians from the leftist Moslems and Palestinian guerrillas they fought four years ago. 
There has been no political reconciliation since the civil war. The Christians refuse to talk as long as the Syrians are in the country, and Moslem and leftist parties refuse to meet with the Christians, accusing 

army deployment because it believes the army is dominated by Christians. 
The leftist militia contains about 10,000 gunmen, and they 
-... 
lu mankllld, trom wllatl galllt:t, and anytlwlg 1can do agamst a, l m gu1ng to do H. 
Placement Bureau plarts Career Day 
The University of Notre Dame's Placement Bureau is sponsoring its third annual Government Career Day today from 12:00 noon until4:00 p.m. in the LaFortune Student Cen­ter. 
Representatives from agencies in both the federal and state government will be in atten­dance to discuss the job oppor­tunities available in their de­partments, both permanent and summer, with students of all maJors. 

APPLICATION PROCEDURES --DEADLINE DATE -MARCH 3, 1980 
I. ~leted application fon. 
2. 
Three (3) copies of your res.-. 

3. 
TWo (2) letters of reco...ndation. 

4. 
$5.00 application fee. Optional: one-paae writing s...,Je -reco...nded. LIST OF SPECIFIC JOB DESCRIPTIONS IS AVAILABLE IN 


PLACEMENT BURE-'U, Roo• 213, A<Imniltration luildina. 
PLEASE POST 
few Students and Farultv 

s JOBS 
rLACIMINT IUIIAU 

Schtdul'd I-nte.vview.s 
STUDENTS WHO INTDID TO HAVE INTERVIEWS IIUST HAVE A COMPLETED PROFILE (REGISTRATION) ON FILE AT THE PLACEMENT BUREAU ..••••••. REGISTRATION, INTERVIEW SIGN-UP SHEETS AND EMPLOYER LITERATURE ARE IN ROO!! 213, AllHINISTRATION BUILDIIIG. 
THE SIGN-UP PERIOD IS FRCtl 8:00 A.M. TO ~:00 P.M., MONDAY TltROUGH THURSDAY, BEGINNING FEBRUARY 4 FOR INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED THE WEEK OF FE\IIWAII.Y 11. 
PLEASE NOTE lNTERVIt:W LOCATIONS AT TIME OF SIGN-UP, 
YOU IIUST SIGN FOR YOUR INTERVIEWS PERSONALLY. 
Feb. 11 ~  EMPLOYER: REQUIREMENTS:  
JOB  DESCRIPTION:  
Feb. Wed.  13  LOCATION: • EHPLOYER: REQUIREMENTS:  
JOB DESCRIPTION:  
SALARY: LOCATIONS:  
EMPLOYER: REQUIREMENTS:  
JOB DESCRIPTION: SALARY:  
LOCATION:  

ZENITH RADIO CORPORATION. RAULAIID DIVISION Junior• in HEIO or ME with preference for machine design. Industrial and Mechanical Engineers. Additional information on job description available at tbe Placement Bureau. Melrose Park, Illinois 
!.NVIRONMENTAL INTERN PROGIWI -LOWER GREAT LAKES Graduate and Undergraduate students seeking professional paid experi~nce in their fields of •tudy. fnvtro~ntally related poaitiona offer students the l.opportunity to work wt th profeaatonals on challengina contemporary aubjecta. hnging fr010 $125.00 to $375.00 weekly. Ohio, Indiana, Michigan and Western Pennsylvania. 
CEIIERAL DYIIAIIICS CORPORATION Juniors, Senior• going oo to araduate •chool or firat year graduate students tn AE. EE, HE, MElO. Engineering aasignroenta. $200 per 1>10nth living allowance. $1,075 per 1>0nth plus $5.00 for every semester hour. Will pay trans­portation back and forth. San D1eao, Cal1fornla. 
[continued from page 4J 

l.J.~. ~mbassy othuals m Na1rob1 sqUirmed over some newspaper stones reporting 
All s  <.:nuusma  ot  Carter  and  
t11e Unllcd Stat es.  · · lllat story  
was  an:urate  but  nasty,  a  

d1piomat told a reporter. 
Ali later soltened lus remarks and sa1d tha tault lay wltll ~tate Depanmem advisors wllo had tailed to mtorm tum ot the Issues. Une advtsor <.:om­mentcd: ··Nobody bnds Alt. 
) estcrday, All sparred with boys at a home tor orphans and vagabonds and mer N:-,urub1 Ma't UH Nathan Kahara. All tlcw 2, )00 m1Jes west to N•gena and wtll v1su L1bcna and ~en­ega! bdure returnmg to \\1 asll­lllgton on Sunday. 
At a Jund1eon with Kenyan spons ott1uats, Ali satd, · l don t <.:are nothmg about South Atn<.:a. l don· t g1ve a damn about .Kuss1a. 1 hey re enemtes 
them of collaborating with Israel. Christian militia leaders pri­

Free Universityvately acknowledge having bought weapons tram the Israe­lis during the war, and they have tacitly supported Israeli­



Needs Teachers
backed army Maj. Saad Haddad in his battles with th( Palesti­nians in southem Lebauon. 
The National Movement, Course descriptions should be 
which groups 15 sometimes disparate leftist parties, has 
said it will not accept Lebanese turned in by Mon. Feb. 11 in the 



Student Union Offic.e, 2nd Floor, LaFortune 

LAFORTUNE BALLROOm THURSDAY FEB. 7, 8:00pm 
CONCERT-IN-THE-ROUND 
all theCltet aeClta Clnd fltat 8 row a of bleClchera 
112.00 
remCllnlnq bleClcheta JIO.OO 

TICKETS GO ON SALE mONDAY FE8.1.& STUDENT 9:00 Clm ~UNION TICKET OFFICE ACC GATE 10~ 
-· 

----~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Rulings hinder prosecution 
in Ford Pin to trial 
WINAMAC, Ind. (AP) -The development of the Pinto. One prosecutor in Ford Motor Co.'s paper involved plans to meet a reckless homicide trial said porposed federal government yesterday he is considering sta.ndard that cars be able to 
seeking a mistrial because of withstand a rear-impact colli­
unfavorable· rulings that he sion at 20 m.p.h. in 1972 and 30 
said had severely limited the m.p.h. in 1973. 
state's case. The regulations never were The statement came moments put into effect. Copp testified after Pulaski Circuit Judge earlier it was his opinion the Harold R. Staffeldt refused to Pinto could withstand no rear­allow as evidence Ford docu­end collision above 25 m.p.h. ments that the prbsecution said without fire risk. Other testi­would show the automaker mon'y indicated a difference of disregarded fire hazards in the 30-35 m.p.h. between the Indi­
ana Pinto and the van that hit it. 
fuel tanks of Pinto subcom­pacts. The prosecution also tried 
Ford is charged with three unsuccessfully to introduce a counts of reckless homicide in document concerning a Ford the August 1978 deaths of three ~epon on fuel system integrity young women whose 1973 Pinto m passenger cars. DePaul Uni­sedan exploded when hit from versity law professor Terrence behind near Goshen, Ind. The Keily, who is assisting Cosenti­state contends Ford recklessly no, said the report referred
~ designed the fuel tanks, did directly to the 1973 Pinto and 
I 
nothing to correct the defects discussed the advantages of and failed to warn the public. placing the fuel tank over the 
Staffeldt repeatedly has refus­axle, instead of behind it. ed to allow any evidence not ·'These documents .indicate directly related to the 1973 that Ford management was Pinto. But the prosecution said aware of problems and how to one of the documents disallow­solve them, but disregarded
( . ed Wednesday dealt specifical­them_'' Keily said.
I 
ly with that model. However, chief Ford attorney "There is a possibility the .J arne~ F. Neal argued, "The state of Indiana may request a tssue JS not how we could have mistrial,'' chief prosecutor Mi­builr the car, but how the car chael A. Cosentino told repor­was built .... we are charged ( ters during the noon recess of with what Jt was. not what it 
i the trial now in its fifth week. might have ;;-;-en.'' 
"Yesterday (Tuesday) we Keily said the re-po;n showt:d w~re prevented from using that rht i>int·) 'ould no: sustain 19-:"1, 72, 74, 75, 76, and 77 a 11l>rrnal h:gh\\•ay collision documents. This morning wid1"ut massivr· fuel leakage. (\'V"ednesday) we were prevent­"That s what tht"y (Ford) had 
I 
I. i ed from using 1973 docu-to warn ahoul. Thats what they 
• 

(, 
( 
~ 
I 
Winamac county courthouse, site 
proceedings. 
knew about," he said.
ments," Cosentino said. "This Neal conceded that Ford wasmakes the state's case consi­aware of likely fuel leakage ifderably more difficult. We have 
a case, but we are being the Pinto were hit from behind handicapped. It's like fighting a by a 4,000-pound vehicle, such 
as the van, at more than 30battle with one arm tied behind 
m.p.h.·
your back." 

"It is not our contention thatHe refused to elaborate. 
this vehicle would not leak,'' heEarlier yesterday, former Ford said. "We knew what this carexecutive Harvey Copp, the key was. The question is whether..
prosecution witness, testified . we recklessly failed to warnthat the aucomakers rushed about this car.''
production of the Pinto in 1970 In refusing to allow the docu­without conducting any crash ments, Staffeldt said, "I don'ttests. Ic was patterned after know what more knowledge you 
' other subcompacts, including
I one marketed by Ford in Eu­(the prosecution) want than that they (Ford) produced that
rope, and those models were automobile. I don't think these
su~jected to crash tests, Copp 
things should be admitted be­satd. 
cause they allow the jury toCopp also said Ford compro­speculate. The only thing im­mised on the location of the portant here is if what theyPinto fuel tank, placing it in a failed to ·-..arn about caused thevulnerable position behind the 
deaths.'

rear axle, to gain more luggage· Staffeldt did allow one docu­space. 
ment about what changes might
The prosecution then tried to enter as evidence a series of have been necessary for the 
documents discussing Ford Pinto had the 20 m.p.h. federal standard been imposed. ·
executive decisions during the 
The Observer Thursday, February 7, 1980 -page 6 


The two legaladversaries in the widely-publicized Ford Pinto tn"al:on the left, prosecuting attorney Michael A. Cosentino; on the right, defense counsel ] ames F. Neal. 
Observer analysis 



Elkhart versus Ford : a legal brawl· 
·Editor's note: Ford car sales were down 22.4 explained that he only desired that "Mr. Copp's percent in the last .10 days of January, but the testimony may" proceed smoothly and expedi­Ford Company was thinking about more than tiously." just car sales during that periud. A one month Not believing a word of rhat, Cosentino old trial being held 6 5 miles south of here will collected himself, cleared his throat and again decide whether a company can be found guilty of interrupted. This time he spoke slowly and crime. Zenon Bidzinski, a former staffer and deliberately. third-year Iaw student, has been covering the ''Never have l been so thwarted, so interfered trial and offers this analysis of an intriguing with, so shoved, so kicked, so pushed around by and sometimes emotional court battle. a defendant that plays with only oQe set of rules, 
and that is theirs," he told the judge. by Zenon Bidzinski And lest he forget his last poke, he quickly added, "a:nd by a defendant who maintains 
Word must be getting out that the Ford Pinto janitors who put documents in their files. And on trial is the best show in town here, for every day the eve of when we intend to put what they've a few more interested townspeople gather in line been dreading all along, they try to limit the 
evidence.''

to catch the· featured attraction. And like any discerning audience, they have come not ju::.t for He then described Neal's proposal to have the 
evidence heard twice. "What Ford would like to
the show, but to see the performers. Starring in the daily drama are two relatively do is have a separate mini-trial outside the 
unknown, but feisty lawyers, Michael A. presence of the jury, so they can object, get Cosentino, prosecuting attorney, and James F. rulings, and then act nice when the jury is 
there,'' he said. 

Neal, corporate defense counsel. 
Somewhat confused and humorously tangled -inBetween the two of them, they have managed 
to keep their audience coming back for one his own belligerent accusations. he concluded, "they want to eat their cake and have it too."
simple reason: they both understand the maxim Neal then took his turn, this ti,!le on his feet,"Everyone loves a fight." 
A fight, albeit an intellectual one, far removed "In all my years, I've never he • ..:•d a prosecutor make such reckless statements, May it please
from John Wayne's barroom brawls is what the court, I think that t know -.,..re about thisthey have been providing. But in the middle, matter than Mr. Cosentm·'· ·when business is slow for all and football season on
is gone for the year, what could i::>e more fun than Cosentino expressed d0~:i•r ·iat count and, 
watchipg two sophisticated strangers battle it fresh with a nt'w idea a-;den, · \li' righr. Are you testifying now? Rai:-·.-yonr -<t-{ht hand, do
out -especially two who ventured all the way to \X1inamac just to verbally attack each other day you solemnly swear . . I'd L her have you 
testifying anywa\·s, soIL;.;, cro: · , ·amine you."
after day in the middle of town. 
Take Monday morning for instance, not 30 Neal still remai11ed calL, bu• fl(•\ spoke louder. "Your hunor, we just wan a ruw c.-,' He·added
minutes had elapsed before prosecuting attor­
ney Michael A. Cosentino, annoyed with another that contrary to what l\1r. Cosen; •dO said, it was of his opponent James F. Neal's soliloquies to the "function of che Coun tO int( rfere with the the judge, jumped to his feet and accused Ford way the stare proceeds or the w::y the defense 
proceeds.''

of subpoening the next prosecution witness to 
"Besides," he continued, "the state wasn't
California simply to tire the witness and deny 
Cosentino extra time with him. That's heavy involved here.'' Mr. Cosentino oniy represents Elkhart County. 
stuff, especially in a court of law. 
· Cosentino avoided profanity with the retort,Neal, labeled as a shrewd Watergate prosecutor 
by one Notre Dame law professor, had been "these arguments are duolicit as heck." He added, ''for next Monday, Copp again already
proposing a method of proceeding with the next has been ordered to retut n to L.A. by Ford."
prosecution witness. The witness was Harley 
Cobb, a former Ford executive who allegedly Neal, getting increasingly perturbed, gritted was outraged over the Pinto's design and who is his teeth an~nly and answered, ''J have to resist Mr. Cosentino's attack on my client.''
e~pected to be one of Cosentino's most revealing 
wttnesse<;. The jury, scheduled to make an appearance at 
The Ford attorney said he would no longer 9:30a.m. entered the courtroom at 10:17., They object to the authenticity of the signatures on left at 11:52, after a total of 95 minutes of certain documents, mostly crash tests, but he testtmony. wanted the documents first reviewed by the Then at 11:55, Neal began again, "I am 
witness out of the jury's presence. disturbed about the allegations of the prosecutor this morning.''
Last week Neal had managed to persuade 
Judge Harold Staffeldt to exclude the Ford It was counsel for the plaintiff, and not for Ford, he said, that forced Mr. Copp to return to
documents unless the signatures could be California.
authenticated. Cosentino argued that they were 
the same Ford documents he subpoenaed and Looking at Cosentino, he raised his voice and that he was sure Ford's janitor hadn't put them addressed the Court, ''How can a man make 
statements like that?''

into Ford's locked files. 
Consequently, Cosentino had gone through the Cosentino, accused by Neal three weeks ago for time and expense to obtain two witnesses ..J being the type with whom it was impossible to 
compromise, would not give an inch.
authenticate the documents, and had them 
waiting outside the courtroom. He was upset. Neal, likewise,, wouldn't abandon his position, "O.K. then, I'll have the lawyer here because I 
"Your honor," Cosentino began, "I've listened to 20 minutes of Mr. Neal's carrying-on, and if wane the record to reflect the recklessness of 
your statements.''

this is such an honest and sincere effort on the part of Ford, they could have done this a long Cosentino saw his opening and ended with the 
finale, "I want the janitor here, Mr. Neal." .
time ago. Let's just get on· with the trial.'' 
So went another morning. They were ar it Still fuming, he continued, "Mr. Cop{> just asain, like two wild mountain goats with horns went 4500 miles for five minutes of testimony btgger than their heads, perched atop a hill, first Friday because Ford subpoenaed him back to facing off to intimidate the other, and then 
California. I submit, your honor, this is not a taking turns lowering their heads and ramminggood faith attempt, but an attempt to castrate 
away for no apparent purpose.

the state's case, to keep evidence out, :tnd to No one knows if it is for the benefit of the jury.
prolong the case.'' 
Sometimes, when it gets unusually nasty, it is in Neal resumed his calm and smooth delivery, 
spite of the jury. And sometimes the jury is not "May I continue, your honor, I was interrupted. 
even present. Then it is for the judge.
Mr. Cosentino will see the merits of my Yet) udge Staffeldt, so far. has rv · bothered to argument if I continue." 
reprimand the pair. A l: · ·)lder -=-.nd perhaps Ann for such subrlery, what defense? wiser, he is evidently com,~~nr to ~ '3.y the wise, N-:! defend~d himself by claiming he was observant owl. Indeed ~r~r'le of · ~ courtroom 
p: :'k · ed to tak; ~he stand under oath and say artists have portrayed· hirr. in like manner. that he instructed the California lawyers not to Still it is somewh~t entertaining, for him and call Copp back, but that he couldn't tell them for the audience. He knows that both lawyers are how to plan their qse. · experienced ·enough not to conduct themselves 
Cosentino snapped back that. he was not a~ children defendmg their parents. But like ~ny accusing Neal, but Ford Motor Company. wtse man he knows·the first law of theater: Don't Neal ignored him, remained seated and again mess with the performers. 
! 
----...... -.-.,._ .. . --. 
.. 
.­

The Observer Thursday, February 7, 1980 -page 7 
Arrives in lake Placid 

IOC head opposes boycott 

LAKE PLACID N.Y. (AP) -''The bane of my life is the word boycott,'' says Lord Killa­nin, president of the Interna­tionalCommittee. 
Killanin' s comment as he ar­rived in Lake Placid for the XIII Winter Olympic games Wednesday night sees the tone for the IOC session this week­end. There is likely to be no support for President Caner's call for next summer's Olympic Games to be moved from Moscow, cancelled or boycot­ted 
''I think it is very important that we should not be dictated to by governments on where we should go,'' Killanin said at a press conference, underlying the traditional role of the Olym­pic Games as being indepen­dent of politics. 
Some 76 of the 89 members of the self-elected, self-perpetua­ting body of the Games, are expected for the Lake Placid 
• session. Some have already arrived and have indicated they are backing Killanin and stand­ing firm against Caner's boy­cott. 
.Julian K. Roosevelt, one of the two IOC members from the 
[
-continued from page 41 
ces an~ money for improving the natton's transportation sys-tern. 
Although the Carter adminis­trari.on ba~ks t~e energy-rela­ted-mcenuves, It oppo~es any tax c~t be~ause of fear It would fuel mflatton. . 
The staff recommendations for incom.e t~x cuts would ~eplace n~m-bmdtng language. 10 the Senate-passed btll destgned !0 pav~ t~e w~y for a freeze 111 SoCial Secur~ty taxes next year. That provt~t~n was sponsered by Sen. W1lltam Roth, R-Del., who is also one of the most 
persistent advocates of income tax cuts. 
Senate conferees,most of whom favor a comparatively weaker tax as a spur to greater domestic oil production, wanted the tax to expire as soon as it produces $227.3 billion in rev­enue. 
But House delegates said that would give oil companies and the Organization of Petrolem ExportingCountries an incentive for sharp increases in crude oil prices over the next few years, 

We folks back home Wan' 'o say
Hope you have A lovely dayl 
Mom, Dad and Donnie 
mENDOZA'S GUITARS, REPAIRS, ACCESSORIES 1mile north of campus
\ 
272-7510 
United States, kept up his 
campaign to keep the Olympic 
Games in Moscow, despite the 
world reacticn to the Soviet 
intervention in Afghanistan. 

"I have heard that a boycott of 
th Olympics would be the 
strongest weapon we could use 
against the Russians,'' Roose­
velt said before Killanin arrived 
''If that is tha strongest thing 
we can do we have no Washing­
ton. 

''The United States would be a bunch of cowards if we stayed home. The only way we can stand up to the Soviets is to go over there and beat them this summer.'' 
Killanin plans to meet Friday with Robert Kane and Col. F. Donald Miller, President and secretary, respectively, of the 
U.S. Olympic Commirtee, which has promised to pass on Carter's call for moving or cancelling the Games. 
Killanin told the news confer­ence he is ready to let Kane and Miller go before the full session of the IOC, although he has said repeatedly the games can­not be moved from Moscow. 
·'Any national Olympic comitt­tee to express views to the 


' ' .Tax. 
Since such action would hasten 
expiration of the tax. The House wanted parts of the tax to be permanent. The compromise would begin phasing our the tax in January 1988 or as soon as the $227.3 billion is raised, whichever is later. The tax would decrease by 3 percent until it ceased to ·exist. The "windfall" tax is tied direcrly to oil prices-the more quickly oil prices increase, the more revenue it produces. The cor:nmittee is assuming prices will increase above today's $30-per-barrel level by 2 per­cent a year, plus the rate of 
inflation. 

IOC,'' Killanin said 
But the U.S. Olympic Comit­tee cannot put a a resolution on the IOC agenda. The 140 na­tional Olympic commirtes around the world are simply recognized by the IOC and play no part in its deliberations. 
Killanin, 66, who succeeded the late A very Brundage as president in 19721 said the IOC session in Lake Placid will be one of the most vital in its 86-year history. 
''Things have ro come to lisht which will make people rethtnk many aspects of the Olympic movemenr in the years to come,'' Killanin said. 

Come follow me 
& I will give you rest relaxation 
prayer~iiiiiiiiiii;;j~~ 

space 

WEEKEND 
RETREAT 

PROGRAM 
OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 

SECOND SEMESTER WEEKENDS 
FEB. 29 -MARCH 2 ... 
GOD's STORY & OUR STORY Rev. David Burrell 
MAR.7-9 
LIFE AFTER BIRTH: SPIRITIJALITY FOR STIJDENTS Rev. Bill Toohey 
APRIL 18~20 
JESUS: GOD WITH A HUMAN FACE 
Bro. joe McTaggart & Rev. John Fitzgerald 
INFORMATION: CAMPUS MINISTRY OFFICES 
LIBRARY BAD_IN 


6536 Ot 4392 
' 
~


;1-'here's a lot 

~~-Help Wanted/


more of 

Elftpl o--y-er__s_e_../,---k-i-ng--?{ 
d~anyou 

''"


might think. 
And you don't have to just rely on your local newspaper to find them. Because this spring, Ford's Insider magazine will feature an entire issue on how and where to find summer employment. 
There will be information on government jobs, including tips on taking the Civil Service exam. Articles on overseas jobs, too. Intern and co-op programs in private business. Jobs workin' on the railroad and other outdoor money-makers. Jobs at resorts. Even jobs at Disneyland. And for the individualist, job profiles of a clam digger and a magician. 
Insider will help you find the summer job you need. And to find Insider, all you have to do is pick up a copy of your college paper and look inside. It's free from Ford. 
look for Sunmer Job 
issue of lnsidel: FordS c<rtiruing series of college 
newspaper~ 



. , ·I 

. •· 
T~ursday, February 7, 1980 -page 8




ttort s 
l, 
( 
(, 
I ! 

( 
I 
l 
I 
r. I, 
'( I f 
l. 'I 
t: 
! 
I, 
I 
{ 
I.I 
I, 
I 
~ 
!.
I 
I, 
I, 
i 

(' 
'• 

Saint Mary's fire safety questioned 

Saint Mary's College suffered from two dorm fires in the 
last two.months -one in Holy Cross Hall on Dec. 4, and the 
second in Augusta Hall only three days ago. _Fortun~tely, the 
fires were small and contained to one room m each mctdent. 
Unfortunately, the lives of many students would have been 
jeopardized due to their disregard offire safety rules, had the 
blazes spread. 
Although the fire alarm sounded during the Holy Cross fire, 
most students did not leave the building. Many even stopped 
to gape at the fire. The burning room was located right next 
to the elevator shaft which is Qld and made of wood. An 
uncontrollable fire would have spread quickly through the 
shaft and throughout the entire building. Common sense 
should have told students to stay away from the area. 
A number of students who were sleeping during the Holy 
Cross fire were not alerted to the danger. Failure to alert 
sleeping residents was a gross negligence and represented 
irresponsibility on the part of the students. 
During the Augusta Hall fire, the alarm was never I?ul!ed. 
Perhaps that is why most studen.ts did not leave the bmldmg. 
The lives not only of student residents but also of Holy Cross 
sisters living in the rear of the building were threatened by 
the irresponsible oversight. 
Each year, students are warned about fire hazards and .are 
put through countless drills to prepare them for P?Sstble 
emergencies. Resident advisors m all ?,f the dorms mform 
students of safety rules and evacuation proct:;dures. An 
additional warning was issued to Holy Cross restdents after 
the fire in that dorm. 
It is deplorable that students disregard safety instructions 
and procedures. Twice they hav:e been lucky. H~wever, 
following safety procedures and usmg common sense ts safer 
than trusting to luck. 


DOO.BSBUBY 

~Gid'fta~­


Pray for us 

Running from war only worsens the problem 
By the time I reached the ripe old age ot eighteen, the Viet Nam war was over. The requirement ro register for the draft was nonexistent, and any thought of dying for my country was remote. 
But events of the past few weeks have changed all that; most recently, President Car­ter's call for a reinstatement of registration has made the "re­mote'' possibility of death much more real. 
The registration requireme':lt is unsettling -not so much 111 itself, but because of the change it signifies in the go­vernment's foreign policy and world outlook. In requiring registration, President Carter has announced "It's a jungle our there.'' He is ready to respond accordingly. 
Let me pause to say that I 
approve of this change i!l 
policy: I believe universal regi­
stration is essential to keep the 
United States prepared for a 
military emergency. Neverthe­
less, the act of registration and 
the possibilities it forces 18 to 
26-year-olds to consider are 
unfamiliar and frightening. Our 
sense of security is declared 
false, our complacency dissipat­
ed. 
Although I don't relish t~e idea, I'm not in principle afratd' of dying for my country; short of playing Romeo to some Juliet, it's the most noble way to go. But the sophistication of roday's weapons no longer al­lows a soldier to make any choice which could affect his destiny. In a full-scale war, the soldier is helpless. 
Let me explain. In every American war prior to the Viet Nam conflict, the American soldier entered combat confi­dent he could make a dif­ference. He was better-trained, better-armed, and most impor­tantly -es{>ecially to his own peace of mmd -a better shot. The rationale went something like this: even if you (the common soldier) had to die, you were expecred to take a dozen or so of the enemy with you. It was The American Way; we were bound to win. The out­come ofany banle rested on our talents, our moxie, and our· possession of''the r~hr stuff' ­to borrow Tom Wolfe's phrase Victory was assured. 

Bur recent reports from Af­ghanistan. state that the Rus­sians are fighting the Afgh~ns with nerve gas. Nerve gas, hke an atomic bomb, does not discriminate. It doesn't care how well you hide behind trees, or shoot at a target, or, for that matter, how much moxie you've got. It asks no questions, takes no prisoners, and cares not whether you're a soldier, a civilian, or a member of the press. Even a giant supply of Lysol is no help. 
In short, all indications show that the Soviets "cheat" -their weapons aren't overcome by talent. Once we realize the Russians have no qualms about us!flg "•1nc0nventional" arms, can nuclear weapons be ignor­ed? In fact, isn't. their use inevitable? 
Such a conclusion might not be all bad-terrifying, but not bad. Without entering a philosophi­cal debate, isn't a declaration of war merely a statement that in the "current" situation vis-a­vis another country, the Con­gress agrees that the end justifies the means? In other words, t~e phil?sC?phy is '':ricto­ry first.' If thts ts true, If the ends do justify the means, neither country is bound by ethical standards. The proper action is that action most stra­tegically appropriate. "Cheat­ing" is impossible. 
Let's consider the~ ''best'' possibility we have of fighting a war in the Persian Gulf, a region "vital" to U.S. interests. That best chance is a complete­ly "conventional" w~r -i.e., no "cheating." But nouce how far the Perstan Gulf is from us, while it is just across Russia's border. Our supply lines would span half the globe, and ~e impossible to defend; thetrs would cover a few hundred miles and be virtually impreg­nable. They co~ld out-s~pply our troops even tf they shtpped all their provisions in on ca­mels. 
Following any full-scale Soviet auack on the Arab nations, at some point the Russian troops would be halted -either be­cause they had gone far enough to satisfy the Kremlin, or because someone had stopped them. Then what? We could sign a treaty giving the Soviets most of their new territory or we could try to take it back ­which would, I presume, prove difficult. Or we could arcack to takt enough territory to "com­
promise" our way to  a  return  
of the status quo.  
Unfortunately none  of  these  

alternatives seems attractive ­even the ''best'' possibilities lead to escalation. But we must remember the lesson we should have learned in Viet Nam: to fight merely to maintain the status quo -or to stop an advance -is to lose before we begin. Any solution short of victory is destined to give rise 
Rob Neate 
to more of the same problems in the future. If we are prepared to fight, we must be prepared to 
wm. 
Let me interject that I am appalled by this argument -that world peace requires world domination. But there are few othe,r choices: so long as one country believes the ''world domination" theory, the rest are forced to fight that country or be conquered. We could solve the situation simply by becoming another Soviet satel­lite. Is that what we want? At some point, we must decide. 
Bur where does this leave the soldier or prospective soldiers? Any war fought on all-out terms renders him both helpless and useless. In a war of a few bombs and missiles, individual talents are inconsequential. Combat in this situation makes the answers to John Kennedy's famous questions identical and pathetic: "Ask not what your country can do for you" (be­cause the answer is nothing), '·but what you can do for yoi!r country'· (but the answer 1s stzll nothing). • . If a war is fought with "non­discriminating'' weapons, we stand to lose not only millions of lives, but also any conception of the worth of the individual. This frightens me most. Time spent on self-improvement is waste~; skills acquired are useless.It 1s sad and omtnous to think that such a war makes most ''use­ful" the citizen who has entirely devoted himself to propagation. In this contest, talent doesn't count, numbers do. . 
In any event, we must decide whether to take a stand, even while the threat of a world-wide war seems to intensify each week. A nuclear holocaust is no longer out of the question: instead of considering dying for our country we are faced with frying for it, a particularly gruesome prospecr. 
In deciding, we must strive to be informed; we must consider deeper questions than ones of personal survival. I can't decide for others, but I can say this: while I am willing to fight the Russians in rhe Persian Gulf, I won't go armed with a pea­shooter. If we choose to fight, we must choose to win. 
I can'r b~lieve we've survived 200 years to quit now. We need never seek a war, but running from one may only worsen the problem. In the long run, we can only remember our motto: In God We Trust. That principle represents our rationale, our hope, and our last chance. Pray for us. 

administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and 
-The Observer_ 

as objectively as possible. Editorials Edrtor-m-chre( ........ Rosemary Mills Sports Editor..... . . .......... Mark Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor......... .Diane Wilson Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Edltonal Editor.............. Ann Gales Photo Editor ........ , ..... Doug Christian · opinions and letters are rhe views of Sen lor Copy Editor......... M. Onufrak The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executwe News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Buslne,rs Manager ........Steve Od~and 
-newspaper published by the students able to all members ofthe community, News Editor....................Mark Rust Production Manager .... John--McGrath ofthe University of Notre Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News Editor .................Mike Shields Advertzslng Manager ......... Bob Rudy and Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC News Editor ........Margie Brassil Controller................. .Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies of the encouraged. Circulation Manager ..... .Greg Hedges 
.. 


~ 
The Observer -Editorials Thursday, February 7, 1980 -page 9 




P.O. Box 
options were ~he extremes of at one point or another,The true tragedy black and white? It seems to compromtse," and that "Marythis reader that there were only compromised.'' Again,
Dear Editor: two immediate options: keep especially in a country which I would like to make a few the baby um:1 his or her birth asserts the right of every man comments concerning Chris and then decide whether to "to life, liberty, and the pursuit 
Stewart's article, "The keep it or put it up for adoption; of happiness,'' how can killing Abortion Quandary.'' [The or take the baby's life. How can a person be termed a. Observer, Feb. 4]. there by any moral ''grey'' in "compromise"? As Pope John 
Stewart offers that ''that there taking the life of a defenselss Paul II stated in his homdy of are times in life when there is human child, "created in the the Mass on the Mall in no black or white; only grey." image and likeness of God.'' Washington,D.C., on October Later he asserts that for Mary, (Genesis 1:27) 7, 1979:"If a person's right to "'the only viable option was Stewart employs a parallel line life is violated at the moment in abortion. The grey." If of thinking further on in the which he is first conceived in abortion was the "grey", what article. He writes that "we all, his mother's womb, an indirect 
'\IERY Nlct SLAP S(lr-1 T~INK I01/b YOJ A'DRIMK!' 
The Abortion Quandary: Part II 
jack jones 

Moved, and I genuinely mean gave birth to a six and a half pound baby boy. moved, by Mr. Stewart's sensitivity and ability The child was adopted the next day. to articulate the ambiguity of life and the fright Linda had finished her first semester of her 
of dilemmas that become occasions for real senior year of high school before her condition anguish for those whom they afflict as flesh and was recognizable, completed her studies at a blood realities and not as matters discussed in nearby junior college citing to her friends an ethics class, I offer this memory. academic interests as the reason for her 
I had known Linda since my freshman year. · transfer, and carried and gave birth to a child She, my girlfriend's best friend, and I had been without anyone but her family ever knowing she fond of one another from the start. She glowed was even pregnant, not even the child's father. with an enthusiasm and warmth that infected She had cut herself off_from her high school and you with smiles. Emotional, sometimes too church friends and lived an anonymous life for much so, but always caring, she remains in my six months--for the sake of her family and the mind as an image of life lived in a tearfully child's father. happy embrace. I loved her immensely. I asked her why. 
And we often talked, as only two people She felt as if it was important--mortally 
immensely in love but satisfied with friendship important. She described the exhausting tears can talk. And for four years we spent many and fear that she underwent trying to make her glorious hours together sharing dreams, tears, decision, all the while being supported by her and gossip (after all, she was my girl friend's family who would back any decisaon she would best friend). It was lastJear during our senior make. She finally opted for the inconvenience, year that we happene to be walking one the secrecy, and the pains of labor. Over a child evening and stopped to marvel at a Carolina she would see but once. star-filled sky. I choked back tears as I threw my arms around 
After some time she turned and looked at me her. "Linda," and not being able to say softly and said, ")ack, I want to tell you anything else, I sobbed quietly. Suddenly, I something about me. Something no one else on sensed her courage and her arms that held me this campus knows." felt so strong, so reassuring. I struggled to 
And as I directed my gaze to her to assure her comfort her, to say something, knowing embar­I wanted to hear, I saw a solemnness in her face rassedly all the while that she was comforting and something of a proud tremble on her lip. me. That night when I finally went to bed, I felt 
") ack, I've had a baby." dazed and drained, my prayers wordlessly trying 
And as she took my hand and squeezed it, we to grapple with my awe. walked until her story was done. Linda had Perhaps we should say Linda did not loved a guy in high school. Very much. And she compromise. I'm not sure. But Linda is a had slept with him. In the middle of the first monument ofcourage. And perhaps an example semester of her senior year, she discovered she of absurdity. Maybe something like the was pregnant. absurdity of believing in a misfit failure who was 
.. Linda was an extraordinary student, president executed on a cross. But let us avoid the of her class, and a member of everythmg-. She theological ties so as to sidestep the ugly was not Catholic but a committed Christtan and arguments usually associated with such. I only spent much of her time with her church wanted to say it was a powerful religious community. Her family was exceptionally close, moment. for me. Not because a young girl made and there was no reason to hide her condition the right moral choice, but because a woman had from her parents. They suggested an abortion. the resolution to do more than she had to. After all. it was not a major hang-up in their Some compromise. I have. And do. Some religious tradition to have an abortion. Linda don't. But some don't even think in terms of would only receive insults and face rejection compromising or not compromising and, like from her peers if she decided to carry the child. Linda and perhaps even like Mary in Mr. The family would be ostracized. Certainly an Stewart's account, call us not to some decided abortion was the answer. stand on a moral issue but to a raised level of The summer before she came to college she courage. 
blow is also struck at the whole of the moral order -which serves to ensure the inviolable goods of man.'' 
It is sad that, throughout the entire article, Stewart does not once address the true tragedy of the situation. The tragedy begins with the failure of the boy with whom Marl slept, of Chris Stewart, and o any other friends who knew of Mary's predicament, to provide Mary with the love, support and direction she needed to face this ''nightmare of every good girl.'' It is tragic that Mary felt she couldn't find understanding in her parents, ''exceptional people, devoted to their children .... devout Catholics." ­It is also tragic that because of this abortion, Mary has in­creased the chance of pre­mature delivery, and spon­taneous ·abortion -in later pregnancies and also of infer­tility. '­
However, the greatest tragedy of all is that Mary, fearful and alone, unwittingly snuffed out the life of a human being, a human being whose heart was beating 18 days after con­. ception, a human being with fully operative internal organs by 6 weeks, ahuman being with a set of fingerprints at 8 weeks after conception totally unique from any person who has ever lived or ever will live. 
Finally, Stewart writes that ''abortion meant that her ex­istence would not be radically, and negatively, transformed." How will Mary ever be the same, knowing that she has destroyed the life of one who had a relationship with her, closer and more intimate than any other human bond--that of a mother to her child. 
~at Mary needed in the mlds't of her crisis was com­passion, and it is what she needs now, more than anything else. For the sake of immediate convenience Mary removed this tiny life from her body, but will she ever be able to remove it from her mind and her heart? Again, as John Paul II said in Washington, D.C.:"Human life is precious, because it is the gift of a God who is infinite, and 
when  God gives life  it  is  
forever.''  
Bill Hogan  

Support sought 
Dear Editor: 
Last Mav, the Ohio Farm­workers Support Committee asked Notre l>ame students to support the Farm Labor Organizing Comminee (FLOC) in their attempt to win minimum wages and collective 
bargaining rights for migrant workers in Ohio from the Campbell Soup Company. A referendum to force University food services to boycott Campbell products won major­ity support from the 36 percent of the students who voted in the referendum. Guidelines set by the University, however, required that 50 percent of the student body vote before they would honor the referendum. 
During student government elections on February 25, the Support Committee will a.gain ask for student support tn a referendum calling for a boycott of Campbell products. 
Articles in The Observer will explain both FLOC's and Campbell's views. Read the 
articles, especially those which 
outline the company's position. 
You will find that although 
Campbell's arguments make 
economic sense, they lack . 
Christian sensibility. 
Think about the Ohio Farm­
workers the next time you reach 
for your favorite Manhandlers 
soup. "How do you handle a 
hungry man?'' Refuse .to 
guarantee him a minimum 
or to recognize his bargaining 
union? Replace him with a 
machine? Support the migrant 
farmworkers and boycott 
Campbell. 
Paul Dzdier 

No middle ground 
Dear Editor: 
It is not often, in this age of 
uncertainty, that moral issues 
can be as crystallized as those 
involving abortion. Two camps 
have formed, the abortion camp 
and the pro-life camp. Middle 
ground is sought by many, but 
it cannot be found. The issue 
involves life or death. 
Those who oppose abortion do so on grounds that the destruction of h-uman life is involved. Those who advocate abortion speak in terms of freedom of choice. The latter group, who label themselves pro-choice; ignore the prior question of whether the fetus is human life. This is the dis­positive question to which the abortion issue must be con­fined. If the fetus is human life, the question of choice is irrelevant except where the life of the mother ts threatened. If the fetus is not human, then of course the mother may choose to have it removed. However, the biologically and medically established fact is that the fetus -is a living human being, and thus is entitled to protection by 
,,
the United States Constitution. 
Let us then, not be misled by he 
label "pro-choice." The designation is intellectually dishonest and obfu'3cates the 
lSSUe. 

Some attempt has been made to maintain a position between those who oppose and those who advocate abortion. Wit­ness for example, Republican Presidential aspirant John Anderson's statement that abortion is a matter "between the woman, her doctor, and 
her God.'' Such position reflects a profound ignorance of the nature of law and states­manship. There is no middle ground. There is, to use Mr. Stewart's language, no grey. Governor Reagan is the only viable candidate with a sound 
position on the abortion issue. 
In a message to the recent 
March for Life in Washington; 
D.C. 9 he said, "There is no more urgent problem con­fronting the traditional family values of this great nation than protecting the unborn child.'' 
The competence with which Mr. Stewart writes is· evidenr from his article. However, there is more to writing than style. His reasoning is badly flawed . and suggests that he will graduate from this University lacking the principles and skills required to live and defend his faith. Ability to write is a gift. But without a solid under­standing of one's faith, it is a gift that can be used in per­suading o.thers to accept erroneous vtews. 
Btl/ Howard 



• 

\ I 
{ 
\ 
\ 
1 
~ 
' ~ 
' 
\ 
' 
' 
Thursday, February 7, 1980 -page 10



Features 
~ 
) 
\ 
I ! 
t \ 
l 
\' 
l ~ 
l 
Oose Encounters with the Pops 
Mark Perry 

Music, whether it be rock, jazz, latter piece gave the music all the classical, or whatever, need only be feeling it needed. heard to be appreciated. After all, The second half of the program, music is basically an aural medium. with the exception of a medley ~rom 
..__ Rut for those of you who have been ''Gigi' • to open and a well recetved to a concert of some musician you rendition of Gershwin's "Strike Up rruly admire, there is something the Band" for an encore, was entirely special about see:ng music per­devoted to the soundtrack scores that formed. To see the feeling that goes have made Williams a three-time into every note, to watch a skdled Academy award winner. Music from musician play an instrument like it "Superman", "1941", and was a part of his own body gives Williams' biggest success, ''Star music an added dirneosion that Wars," pleased the crowd, but they cannor be conveyed on your home probably drove home talking about stereo, no mauer how many waus per the music from "Close Encounters of rhannel you have. the Third Kind." lr was with this idea in mind that the Watching a movie like ''Close lare Arthur Fiedler created the Encounters'', you tend to neglect the Boston Pops Orchestra. Fiedler background music that is setting the wanted to bring the beauty of mood of a particular scene. To see svmphonic music out to the people, the music played by an orchestra, ~here thev ctJuld watch, listen, and stripped of the visual aspects that the appreciare rhe effort rhat·.goes into film provides, can be awe-inspiring, that catchy melody that you find especially in this case. Williams has echoing in your brain as you walk succeeded in bringing together all down the street. Fiedler would give the elements of sound that we tend to the crowd the songs they wanted to associate with outer space, and just hear to draw them to the Pops listening to his composition creates concerts, then interlace them with the visual effects in your mind. Even some classical music to give them an The majority of the program was The classical section of the concert more amazing was the discovery that education. devoted to Williams own all the sounds that were on the
completed the first half of the
The basic spirit of_ the Pops lives o!l compositiOns, understandable be­soundtrack were created by the
performance. Pavane, Op. 50, by
today,· ·as wa9-evidenced by their cause he only joineq the Pops instruments in the orchestra.
Faure, highlighted the flute section
performance at the ACC last Friday. recently, and this is their first tour Watching this live increases yourin a light piece, and violinist Emanuel
With the death of Fiedler a new with Williams. appreciation of the power of music 
The evening opened with ''The Borak of the Boston Symphony joined 
conductor was needed, and the Pops dramatically.
the Pops as guest soloist on Concerto
settled on someone that most people Cowboys Overture,'' the title piece And that knew about, the poJ?ular soundtrack from a typical john Wayne western. No. 3 in B minor for Violin and is what the Pops is all about. If even
Orchestra, Op. 61. by Saint-Saens.
composer, John Williams. Despite A sweeping melody, with strings one person leaves the auditorium 
the fact that he was recovering from a interlaced with the xylophone, Both selections were somewhat realizing that there is something bout with the flu, Williams presented created a feeling of the Old West, inhibited by the poor acoustics of the about music they have missed, then himself as the right man to lead this reminiscent of the work of Aaron ACC, but the enthusiastic playing of Arthur Fiedler and his successors fine orchestra. Copeland Borak on the three movements of the have accomplished their purpose. 

Service to Notre Dame : the Dillon Heritage 
Bob Bernoskie1 CSC 
The early years of Notre Dame are linked with science course was added to the curriculum which heretofore had been 
many persons whose contributions to this University provided the foundations basically Arts and Letters oriented. . 
for greatness. Two such persons during this penod were the Reverends Inroads were also made into the study of medicine under Fr.Louis Neyron, a 
Patrick and James Dillon, CSC. resident clergyman who had been a surgeon in Napoleon-'s army, a participant 
Born on New Year's Day at Galway, Ireland in 1832, Patrick was intent on in the Russian offense, and later a captive of Wellington's troops at Waterloo. 
priesthood in religious life from early youth. When the Dillon family Fr. Dillon left the presidency after only one year, being summoned to 
immigrated to America he pursued studies at St. Mary's College in Chicago. France for a general chapter meeting of the Congregation of Holy Cross. It 
In 1856 he entered Notre Dame to complete his requirements and make his was there that Fr. Dillon was made Assistant Superior General of the 
novitiate for the Congregation of Holy Cross, which founded and staff Notre Congregation; a tribute indicative ofthe deference his associates had for him. 
Dame DuLac. In August 1868, Fr. Dillon returned to America with the Very Reverend 
In these years Patrick evidenced good executive skill in the area of Father Sarin, the newly appointed Superior of the Congregation of Holy administration, and was appointed community steward in 1857. At the age of Cross. Fr. Dillon assumed a pastorate at St. Patrick's Church in Chicago 26 Patrick was ordained a priest for the Congregation of Holy Cross in the where he died on November 15, 1868 at the age of 36. church of St. Bridget's at Rome. During the same year he was appointed Vice James Dillon, CSC, fifth Vice President of the University, was born at President of the University; an office he held periodically until his installment Galway, lrt>land on November 18, 1833. Like his brother,)ames also aspired as president in 1865. to religious life. He completed his studies at Notre Dame, and had the happy 
Notre Dame at this juncture was evolving from an inexperi~nced institution fortune of being ordained on the same day as his brother Patrick. In 1860, he with youthful expectations to one of rock-r!bt.ed maturity. Student enrollment was named president of St. Mary's College, Chicago. The following year Fr. was on the increase; financial matters were placed on firmer turf; and the James Dillon left that post and joined seven other Holy Cross priests for goals of the University were proportioned to address growing demands. service in the Civil War. _ 
In regard to the disciplining of students Fr. Dillon was known to overlook In 1861, Chaplain Dillon was assigned to the 63rd regiment of the Irish many disturbances whtle Fr. Sarin left no stone unturned in pursuit of Brigade. As in other brigades, the problem of alcoholism, so acute during pranksters. Some disturbances, however, could not be condoned. such emotionally taut years caused many hardships for the young troops. 
During the Civil War years on campus, a scuffle erupted between a Chaplain Dillon effectively countered the problem by founding and directing a Southern and Northern youth. When the latter was requested to leave, a Temperance Association within his brigade. student protest ensued with students boycotting classes. ''Fr. Dillon showed Regrettably, Fr. Dillon contracted consumption, procurred a furlough, the utmost tact," relates Notre Dame--One Hundred Years, "but he was not and was orden:d abroad by his superiors to regain his health. • the man to let his authority be thwarted. He waited patiently for some days. But despite the change his health continued to deteriorate, so Fr. Dillon The unruly students, fatigued by days of playing, retired for the night. After returned to the Notre Dame campus. He died here December 17, 1868, one all was quiet, Hank Painter, the local cab-man, drove up to the college just month and two days after hts brother Patrick. before train time. In the morning some familiar faces were missing. This was The Reverend Fr. Granger, then Provincial of the Congregation states in_ a 
repeated on successive nights. Once Fr. Dillon had weeded out the letter that, ''Patrick and James' coffins were in Sacred Heart Church together 
ring-leaders, peace descended on the campus." 
prior to interment," at the province cemetary on campus on December 19,
When Fr. Sarin resigned from the presidency in 1865, Fr. Patrick Dillon at 1868. Both men were greatly missed by the Notre Dame community. the age of 33 was called upon by his colleag~es to fill the vacancy. 
The historical informati6n on the Dillon brothers is slim and complicated by One of the notable accomplishments of Fr. Dillon's presidency was the contradictory sources. Hence an exhaustive look at their lives only may be 
construction of a new administration building. After the Congregation's known from what is gleaned by speculation. Council approved the proposal early in 1865, Fr. Dillon supervised the 
But this is certain: Tout vient.. de Dieu. Two men--two brothers--twoconstruction with running efficiency. 
priests; together, yet separate were called to live a life of service and sacrificeAt a cost of$35,500 the completed edifice stood 160 feet long, 80 feet wide, for the Notre Dame community. They gave what they could in times of trialand 90 feet high, cro\\ ned by a huge statue of Notre Dame: The building was and joy. Sustained in faith they touched the lives of many people and lookedready for occupation at the start of the fall semester. 
with hope to a future we may think is now, but has yet to pass.
Under Fr. Dillon the· commercial courses were expanded and a six year 

' .. 

/r
f 
• 
The Observer 
Thursday, February 7, 1980 -page 11 

Ackerman and Walters 

Ya should've been there 
All the nat day I could tell who 
had been there, because anyone who 
had been there was talking about the 
Ackerman/Walters concert they had 
atrended the night before.' 
No Ofle knew what to expect from 
these guys who w.ere suprosed to 
have such unique styles o playing 
the acoustic guitar, but the greatest 
expectations were surely surpassed 
Sunday night when Will Ackerman 
and Rick Walters performed at 
Washington HalL 
Ackerman and Walters focus . on 
acoustic instrumental music which 
was described bv Ackerman as a· 
blend offolk and classical influences. 
The evening began with a set of very 
melodic and nearly hallucinogenic 
offerings performed by local guitarist 
Rick Walters. Starting with "An 
Anonymous Ragtime''piece and pro­
gressing through a number of slower, 'more melodic compositions, Walters e~i.nce_d. a high leve~ ?f technical skill,· dtverstty.and creatlvtty. Judging from the reactions ofthose around me Sunday night, the high-
Musicviews 
Adventures In Utopia 
Utopia 
(Bearsville) 
Before I saw Todd Rundgren 
for the first time, I was not sure what 
to expect. At the rime, I had only 
been exposed to. "Hello, It's Me, .. 
and figured that I was in for a show 
full of material of that sore What 
followed was the big·gest surprise 
I've ever experienced ar a 
concert. I wasn't seeing Todd 
Rundgren; I was there to ·see Utopia, 
and there is quite a difference. 
Utopia came our and proved that they 
were more than just Todd's backup 
band, in fact that they weren't Todd's 
backup band at aiL Todd's name was 
never mentioned; the band was 
always referred to as Utopia ,and it 
appeared that Rundgren wasn't even 
the band's leader. After seeing 
Utopia the second ti!De, I've decided 
that Todd Rundgren has the inside 
track on being the most influential 
artist of the coming decade. Don't 
even be surprised 1f you happen to . 
see his face on yourTV screen soon; 
the man is a genius, is very 
interested in electronics, and is in the 
process of convincing the major 
television networks to give him his 
own show. 
Utopia chose not to bring their album out in the middle of the money-:hufl:_gry pre-Xma~ recor~­dumping, instead releasmg thetr album in the first few weeks of the 1980's, a traditionally slow period for the record industry. However, I don't think this will hurt the album. It's veiy good, and you don't have to be a hard-core follower of the group to like it. In fact it's very possible that this release may win the band some new followers. 
If I had to describe the album's most apparent feature in one word, I'd have nn ch0ice but to use harmony. t\ in the world is
u 
more aware of w.. 's members are doing and thev perceive themselves as eq'ual talents. Todd Rundgren doesn't dominate this band, although he probably could dominate any other band around. Utopia works together better than any group I've ever seen or heard, doing things correctly 
light of Walters' set was ''The Dance 
for the Last Lear'' in which he unleashed upon an unsuspecting audience some slide guitar which tended to put members of the audience in a mental state similar to that described by individuals claim­in_g, tO have had ''out-of-body" ex­penences. 
Similarily, the bending of the harmonics at the beginning of' 'Saint Thomas" were startling and deli­cately enchanting. The former ND srudent closed his set with ''Unicorn Dream #2," Again, deferring to th~ reactions of the audience, the per· formanee left Washington Hall quite impressed with Mr. Walters. 
The atmosphere intensified further still, however, during the second set, pre.sented by William Ackerman. The German-born, now Californian, dressed in turtleneck sweater and jeans ·who foHowed the tailored­dressed Walters provided a contrast not only in dress, but in tempo as well.. This second set was punctuated by much foot tapping, head nodding, 
without  being  burdened  by perfec·  
non.  
''The  Road  r.;  Utopia'·  begins  the  

alhum and s.-ts a theme for it. "You Make Me Crazv'' bormws from Lh( present new wave popularitv, and r d almost swear 'hat N: il Young har! '":"mething t(; do with ''Last ,.f rh~ New \Y:ave Riders'', he and Rundgren have a lot ,,~. common tha; :.._ nor as a: ,parent in th~ir music as i1 is ir' reality; "Shut in rhe Dark'. i1as an underlying reggae beat, although for some reason it's been .:arcfully disguised. The song that's been haunting me lately is "Caravan." I'm nut sure why; maybe it's because the imagery in this song comes through so clearly, I have no problem 
picturing the group making their way slowly through a hilly desert under moonlit sky: 
''caravan, moving throush the night 
sleeping in the light oj da_y caravan, spinning through the void on our way to anywhere caravan, time is just a joke 
change is all that we understa11d ca~avan, !tfe is a mirage, only a rmrage 
dancing on the desert sand'' 
One final note--the line notes say: all so!lgs originally performed for the Utopza video television production UTOPIA" 
Michael A. Korbel 
-·­
------·­
_..._ 
No Nukes 
The MUSE, Concerts for a 
Non-Nuclear Future 
(Asylum) 
With the phenomenal reception of ''Frampton Comes Alive,'' the live album has become one of the most common formats in the record indus­try. Nearly every artists with a modest following has hoped to in­crease their audience with a live recording modeled after the Peter Frampton package. Unfortunately, the majority of live albums are merely repetitious, highlighting only the band's hits, most of them inferior versions which do little to convey to spontaneous excitement of a concert. 
:rhere are, of course, exceptions. Bob Seger's Live Bullet, Lynyrd Skynyrd' s One More From the Road, and the Who's Lz've at Leeds are 

and, occasionally, a howl or two. 
Ackerman's perfomiance was no­thing short of exhilarating ''The Pink Chiffon Tricycle 'Queen" began the second s~t (that's the song tide, not an epithet for Ackerman, by the way). Marked by an irregular halt-step melody embedded in bass and trebled harmonies, the rune was characteristic of· ;\ckerman's· _ en~ meshing his compositions .with fine threads of intense feeling. . Tiriting and dynamics make what might 
· otherwise be merely tuneful into a ~elight which captured the imagina­tion. 
Ackerman's ~;erformance of ''Wifldham Mary ' was likewise in­fused with a sensitivity for the expressive capacities of the acousitic guhaL · 
Performing all original composi­tions, Ackerman alternated the more melodic pieces with music which I can best cHaracterize as a blend of bluegrass, classical, folk, and Ackerman. ''The Rediscovery of Big Bug Creek, Arizona" crammed more 
cla::;sic examples of hve albums that · give you something fresh, even in the 
songs you had heard before. 
Arid then there was Jackson Browne's Running on Empty, Ex­panding on an idea originated by Neil Young in Tomght's the Night, Browne recorded a live album with all nrw material, and the public loved it. This wa~ a lan•:mark in rock music, but Ulnsumers are still waiting for som~one to explore the idea ~urther. 
But it should be of no surprise to anyone that Browne had a hand in No Nukes, a collection of live recordings from the MUSE concerts held in New York's Madison Square Garden last September, · 
MUSE (Musicians United for Safe Energy) is a group of artists who have banded together to protest the use of nuclear power and advocate solar energy. The concert, along with this three-record album and a soon­to-be-released film, 'lre all designed to promote MUSE's efforts and raise funds for anti-nuclear organizations. 
What MUSE has done is combine songs recorded at rhe concen by the various artist into a Woodstock-style package. And probably because of 
Jackson Browne's influence, this pack­
age contains  some  of the  best  live  
recordmgs  I  have  heard  in  recent  
years.  

There are a few songs on this album that I could have done without, but for the most part, No Nukes gives us something we haven't heard before. The good selections on these three records have an element that you can't find in your typical studio recording, because you can get a feel .......l.po enf"rgy of a com.ert. It's not i , re ••1e ~ann. as being there, but the Garden onl}' holds about 20,000 people anyway. 
The major flaw of the album is that they tried to let everyone involved get a hand in. Songs by Raydio, Chaka Khan, and Sweet Honey in the Rock (where they found thts group I 'II never know) could have been omitted without a great loss in the sales of this album. (A few choice substitu· tions could have even helped it). 
Also some of the bigger artists don't present their best stuff. Raitt's slowed-down version of the Del Shannon classic, "Runaway," just doesn't cut it, "Dependin' on You" by the Doobie Brothers is destroyed by a poor vocal mix (and it wasn't that good to begin with), and Nash's "Cathedral" doesn't sound the same without the other parts of CSN. John Hall's "Plutonium is Forever" is included because it's anti-nuclear, but sountls like something a political satirist like Tom. Lehrer would do because of its absurd reggae beat. 
Kathy Connelly 

single, clean notes into a shorter 
period of time than a physicist could 
tmagme. 
Later on, Ackerman picked up a 
guitar which ~e had purcha~ed only a 
few days earher and tmprov1sed off of 
a theme he had been toying wirh-· 
pretty impressive improvisation, es­
pecially on a guitar with which he was 
not yet fully acquainted. 
The climax of the set, however, 
definitely the piece called ''Seattle.'' 
This one had the Washington audi­
ence on the edge of their seats, eyes 
frozen on the man on the stage who 
put so much ofhimself into his music. 
"Seattle" has got to be the f'Ilosr effective crowd rouser since wet T·shirts. The thunderous applause following "Seattle" reflected the in-. tensity of Ackerman's entire perfor­mance. 
Ifyou didn't catch these guys then, ·in the words of various persons 
overheard qn campus Monday morn­
ing, ·• Did you miss a great show 
Sunday night!'' 
So much ,[or the mediocre material. The rest of this album is great. Raitt redeems herself with a good folk tune, ''Angel frort1 Mongomery,'' and John Hall'~ nudear message sm:ceeds better on "Power," aided by the Doobies and !am.·s Tavlor. And CSN is unii.f'd nn side six · 
A few of the lesser arr!sts als1. provtde solid material. Ry Cooder ·.:uts thrnugh the California sound that reali;, domir;,;res the first two sides with an old fashioned rocker. "Little Sister,·' Jcssi< Colin Young brings back some nostalgia with ''Get Together," which he recorded with the Youngbloods back in the 1960's, and Nicolette Larson's "Lotta Love" gets some solid backing from rhe Doobies. 
Seven songs on this album make it worth the price of admi~ion. Browne's contributions, "Crow on the Cradle" (along with Nash) and "Before the Deluge" ·are soft songs that really make you sit back and listen, aided by the skilled fiddling of David Lindley, Browne's talented sideman. "Takin' it to the Streets," combines two of the most envied voices in rock music today, Michael McDonald of the Doobie Brothers and James Taylor, while the rest of the cast joins along to provide backing vocals. 
And then there's side five, which I have practically worn through al­ready. The vocals of Kim Bullard and the steamy sax of Phil Kenzie on Poco's "Heart of the Night" creates a song that is so captivating it's unbelievable. Tom Petty's "Cry to Me" makes you wonder why people had to wait for "Damn the Torpe­does" to really appreciate him. And at last we have some live Bruce Springsteen on a legitimate album. Rather then record his songs, the Boss elected to dig out some of the 
oldies that make his live performan­ces such an experience. The versio!l of "Stay" included here puts Browne's earlier recording to shame (with the Big Man, Clarence Cle­mons, on saxophone and background vocals), but fortunately Jackson is around to sing the lead, Then the E Streets unleash their "Devil with the Blue Dress" Medley, a tribute co Mitch Ryder and the Detroit Wheels that has to be heard to be believed. 
It all adds up to a package that captures the spirit of a live concert. Wuh new variations and new faces contributing on familiar and unfami­liar songs, No Nukes is something we haven't heard before. Awl that's what makes a live album great. 
Mark Perry 

'· -~ .... 
I I I I I I 
j 
I 
1 
I I I I 
j 
I 
j j I I I I 
j 
I I I j 
• 
~ 
~ 
4 
~ ~ 


~--------~--­
\ The Observer Thursday, February 7,1980 -page 12 
' 
; 
\ ' 
~ 
' 1 \ 
' 
{ 1 
l '~ 
' ~ 
' i \ 
' 
\., \ 
I 
~ 
\ 
'·· 
' 
l 
\ 
/ 
'\ 
l 
~ ~ 
\ 
~ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
~ 
\ \ 
\ ' 
~ 
~J ~ . 
··rr 
v 
Human rights 
COLLEGE STUDENTS GUIDE TO FT. LAUDERDALE 
A new comprehensive book about Ft. Lauderdae written specifically for college students. The book includes a map of 

State Dept. doruments violations 
the city, locations, phone numbers, prices and all the latest information about dtsco's, restaurants, recreational facilities, places of interest and where to rent everything from cars to 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Human roller skates. The book will tell you how to save money and 
rights were repressed all get the most from Jour vacation. Order now by sending your 
around the world in 1979. Dicta­name, address an check or money order for $4.95 to Hansen 
torships, of the left and right, Publishing & Distributing Co., Dept. M, P.O. Box 17244, 
practiced torture and cracked Plantation, Fla. 33318. Your b')()k will be sent by .return 
down on dissent, according to a mail. 
State Depanment report. But here and there, freedom took a step forward. 
In two Warsaw Bloc countries, Poland and Hungary, internal controls were eased. In Argen­
This Sunday instead of 
tina, the incidence of people
your ''usual'' place try our 
seized without explanation
famous CHAMPAGNE 
dropped sharply and may beBRUNCH ncar an end. In Egypt, liberali­February sweetheart prices zation moved ahead under president Anwar Sadat. 
Feb. 3rd $5.00 
These are among the findingsFeb. lOth $5.50 
in the Stare Department's an•Feb. 17th $5.95 
nual human ngfits report, sub­Feb. 24th $6.50 
mined Tuesday to Congress. For the first ume, all 154Bring in this ad and a NO or coumries were surveyed.
SMC Student ID for these The 654-page document is aprices to apply to your ' catalogue of massive violations. 
Sunday brunch party. 
Only a few, such as the seizure of an estimated 50 American diplomats in Iran, are well­known. For the most part, the viet i ms are faceless to the world 

at large. The abuses are set down in dry bureaucratic language. 
In Czechoslovakia, "overt op­position in any field is pun­tshed." 
In Ethiopia, "ir still appears likely rhat the government tor­tures political and military pris­oners to extract information or confessions. '' 
In Iran, "several thousand persons remain in custody for political reasons.''· In Libya, "detainees in crimi­nal and security cases report­edly are frequently beaten dur­
. . . ,, 
mg mterrogatton. In South Africa, ''The govern­
ing  reality  of  life  . .  .  is  
apartheid.''  
In  Vietnam,  "deprivation  of  

adequate medical and nutri­tional care for political prison­ers and prisoners of conscience over extended periods has re­st. !ted in acute suffering, per­mc.<ilelll physical impairment and death in numerous report­ed incidents." 
The report is sharply critical of the Soviet Union, estimating the number of political prison­ers at 2,000 to 10,000. The gov­ernmenc, it says, "recognizes no right to any opinion or be­havior it chooses to regard as deviant.'' 

The world's other major Communist country, China, gets a mixed review. Since Chairman Mao Tse-Tung's dr·ath in 1976, "movement in the direction of greater free­doms" is reponed. There is some tolerance of dissent and a livelier press. 
'·Bur rhe reforms have not yet broken the entrenched pat­terns of harassment, arbitrary arrest and harsh punishment fo~ political dissent," the reporr sa1d. 
Countries are not compared, one to another, or to their own past records. 
But in the case of Cambodia the repon writers were moved to make the flat statement that '·nowhere in the world are human rights more belea­gured. '' 
And yet, the overall impres­si()n in this fourth annual report is one of progress on a number of fronts. Besides Argentina, improvements are noted in the Central African Republic, Chile 
Equatorial  Guinea,  South  
Korea  and  Uganda,  among  
others.  

Mcllinagh speaks on justice 
by Mary}. Beckman 

Father Enda McDonagh Huisking Professor of moral theology at Notre Dame, ad­dressed the issues of '')usrice and the Search for God'' before a capacity crowd of 250 last 
night  at  7:30  p.m.  in  Saint  
Marv's Carroll Hall.  
McDonagh  pointed  out  that  

Christiamry is not about social 
change. "Stick ro Christian 
fairhand leave social justice and 
reform to politicians", he said. 
McDonagh added that it is not 
because .of we're Christians 
th<y we seek justice, but only in 
the process of establishing and 
examining society that we 
might discover the God we 
believe in. 
According to McDonagh we· are all created in the image of God. Jesus represented the embodied presence ofGod, ac­cepting rhe sick and the poor and welcoming all. Christians too should accept people as themselvesand our response will be seen as an attack to injus­tice, he added. 
As people lift their minds and hearts in prayer, McDonagh suggestednot to confine hori­zons to churches and society, but to take on a universal perspective. ''Make it a res­ponse to the incoming God, "he said. 
McDonagh last year from Ire­land to Notre Dame. He has numerous degrees from Rome and is author of several books. 
The lecture was the first in a series of four lectures spon­sored by Sai.H Mary's Commit­tee for Social Justice. In the next lecture Sr. Aline Marie Steur, will address "Education and Liberation in Latin Ameri­ca: An Overview and Personal Reflection" on February 20 at 7:30p.m. in Carroll HalL 


TECHNOLOGY 
The Standard Missile-2. The most effective Naval surface-to-air missiles ever designed and only one of many on-going high­technology programs at General Dynamics. At our 15 operating divisions across the country, you can apply your educational background and experience in Tactical Weaponry, Shipbuilding, Aerospace, Data Products, Electronics, Telecommunications and many other fields. 
To learn more about the Standard Missile-2 and our other advanced high-technology programs, contact your Placement Office and schedule an interview appointment. Or, send your resume to: 
Bill Coleman Corporate College Relations Administrator GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION Pierre Laclede Center, CN 43 St. Louis, MO 63105 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/ F 
FEBRUARY13&14 

The Observer Thursday, February 7, 1980. -page 13 

Prof. de~ivers 'profound' lecture 


0-C Commissioner 
NEW YORK (AP) -The pro­
fessor had just completed a 
profound, two-hour analysis of 
domestil: pricing, chalking the 
inputs-outputs and causes-ef­
fects in a squiggly diagram 
across an eight-foot blackboard. 
He paused. The class re­
mained attentive. Then a news­
man, one of a group invited to 
study the mysteries of inflation, 
commented perceptively: "But 
professor, it doesn't give the 
right answer." 
Pause. "I know," said the 
professor, an authority on the 
subject. "I know it doesn't, and 
we're not really certain why, 
but we're working awfully hard 
to find the reason why.'' 
True, economists work terribly hard today, often unraveling many of the worst delemmas ever to face the nation and the world. Often they identify causes with laudatory analyses. Often they don'r. 
The inability to accurately forecast short-term trends, one of the weaknesses of the pro­fession, doesn't however pre­vent it from being a ''growth industry," in the words of economist Paul Samuelson. 
Ironically, the very infa­thomabihty of today's events seems to assure a future for forecasters, including those who deal with the economy in general -and gold, commodi­ties, interest rates and the like. 
And, it would seem, it might re-establish an individual's good common sense as equal to that of the most expensive consul tam. And with that in mind , herewith some common­sense expectattons: INFLATIONYou canrely on it. Government spending and deficits, lagging productivity growth, the high costs of im­puned energy, and perhaps some hard-to-change consumer buying habits a:most assure it. 
I{ECESSION. The odds would seem to favor it some time this year. You probably have noted that even the President's ad­visers hedged on this forecast, but there are some indications it finally will arrive. 
DE F (ATI0 N . Not i m me­diately. Many Americans have f\1rgorten that prices can go down as well as up. In fact, since most were born since the 
ND Juniors hold formal totnorrow 
The Notre Dame Junior formal will be held this Friday at St. Hedwig's Hall in South Bend. Tickets can be purchased through the Junior hall reps or in the North and South dining halls durin~ dinner. Cost for the tickets 1s $7. Chairmen for the event are Mike Gies, Amy Peczkowski, Anne Fink, Colleen Short, Pat Conklin, Jim Veraldi and Mary Ellen Caiati. Music will be provided by the group Horizon. 
Other Junior activities for the remainder of the year include a trip to the Dayton basketball game (contact Keith Melaragno 1745 or Kate Niland 8135 for information), a pool tournament with the finals to be held at Goose's, a night at the hockey game with skating afterwards, a picnic in April, a canoe trip, Hnd of course, Junior Parent's Weekend. 
Grear Depr~ssion of the 1930's savings may be changing. Some they never experienced the people, for example, now con­


Elections .
phenomenon. sid~r their home equity to be savtngs.
WAGE INCREASES. Safe bet. But the question, as almost GREATER PRODUCTIVITY. 
Anyone living off-c~pus next year for 2
everyone knows, is whether Your guess is good as any­wage increases will equal price one's. American productivity, 

consecutive semestersl98D-81 may run for
increases. The odds on that or the efficiency with which it is happening in the next two years produced, made it rich. Some 

·· the position of Off-Oampus1Jommissioner. The 
seem to be less than 50-50. claim the low rate of increase now is makine America poorer. 

election rules are the same as those for SBPISBV
SAVINGS. Whether there is a rise in the savings rate, now CONCLUSION: It's yo~r wal­

elections. Anyone interested in running should
under 5 percent, depends on ler, your future. And all things 
0 ·'
wherher those wage increases measured, your conclusions are 

leave his/her name and phone number in 
exceed price rises. In addition, probably as good as the so­the American attitude toward called experts. 

Shannon Beville's mailbox by 
F(;b. 11 

• .Prisons
• 
Feb. 14 
[L:utllmued )rum page .2j 
the officials said. Others 
include poor food, inadequate 
work and recreation programs. 
But overcrowding has a leading 
cause of the riot 10 New Mexico 
over the weekend in which 
more than 30 inmates died, 
authorities there said. 
And prison officials predict 
state facilities will be bulging 
with inmates through the 
1980's because ofwhat they see 
as a law-and-order mood per­
vading the country. Others 
note that the baby boom of the 
1940s and 1950s means there 
are more young adults coming 
of age as potential criminals. 
A nationwide check of state 
prisons by The Associated 
Press found that prisons in 23 
states currently hold more 
people than they were designed 
for. 
They are Alaska, California, Delaware, Georgia, Idaho, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mary­land, Massachusetts, Michi­gan, Minnesota, Missouri, Ne­vada, New Mexico, Ohio, Ore­gon, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia and Wisconsin. 
Nearly all other states are at or near capacity and have some facilities that are considered overcrowded. New ·York, for instance, has a total of 20,739 inmates in state prisons de­signed for 21,180. 
But correctional services spokesman Louis Ganim said more than half the state's 32 prisons were over their limits, mcluding Attica where 18 pri­son guards and four inmates were injured in fights last week. 
The nation's worst prison riot occurred at Attica in 1971, when 43 people died. 
Logan Center reschedules meeting 
On Saturday, Logan Center volunteers will meet at 12 noon and not 9 a.m. At that time volunteers will accompany the children to the NO-Minnesota at Duluth hockey game. 
Volumeers should plan on returning to the Logan Center from the game by 4 p.m. 
Tomorrow night the Logan Center will hold its annual Valentine's Day Dance from 7:30p.m. to 10 p.m. If you have a question concerning either event please contact Ed at 3479 or Walter at 3066. 

A number of states are currently under court order to 
Feb. 17 ease overcrowding in their pri­sons. They include Alabama, 
Feb. 24 Colorado, Louisiana, Maryland, Missouri, New Hampshire, 
Feb. 25 Ohio, Oklahoma, Rhode Island and Tennessee. 
Feb. 27 


Monday, Pebruary 11. 
Schedule of Deadlines 
5:00p.m. Pick uo official candidacy pennons in Student Government 40 signatures of Off-Ca~pus studertts required 5:OOp.m. Return candidacy petitions to Student Government office. !2:01a.m. Campaigning begins 
12:00 midnight Campaigning ends 
Primary election 
Runoff election 
,INVENTORY CLEARANCE. ALL ALBUmS.8 TRACKS & CASSETIES Jt.OO OFF­
NO LlmiT!JJCno coupons needed) 
__...... 

• ... ..._ ...,.., ...._.., " ...... ..,_~ ".._ •.• .., ... .._.raw.......,nr... :-..~111. -~i ~_..,..,__......-.oe,.,..,..._ __ .,.,.___._._ -~• ......,... •-• ...................,,. ............ ._ ~e~ ...-......... .._....,........,......~.._,-.-. .. .-.....,.,.._,._, •· 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·~--------­





Macy keys' 
•

Cats' \Vlfl 
Molarity 
•.' 
'; 
' 
) 
\­
1, 
I 
~ 
< 
1 
\

s 
~ ~ 
\I\ \ 
\ 
\ 
\ \
\ 
\ 
\ 
\' 
~ 
~ 
' ~ 
\ 
"
! ' ' \ 

;ge.u h \1 C-~ I ic -~Cj·_). • ,(; J rtf· --~ '·-;" ...: r;\\JC:.~ s·-,;" r;d t ,-; ­A H ...-t ·;. ,_, : ~--· --~ ~ ·~ :-:·-'~ ..~ l~ . 
. '.-. f •• ' • ' ~ • I • • ' , , I •" • r • • • ,.. ; .0. ,; -~ , .• .,. .. .., .~ «l .. I i ~ • .; 
... 
4 ~ ' • ' • \. 

............. :. .... _ ...... -.---...-~· ·~. 
. ~ .. c... .. • • .. .... 
c"o 

LEXINGTON, Ky. (AP)--Kyle Macy scored eight of his game­leadmg 28,oints during a 18-2 second-hal rally that helped fifth-ranked Kentucky hold of Mississippi 86-72 in a South­eastern Conference basketball game last night. 
A 25-footer by Ole Miss' Carlos Clark cut Kentucky's 
IJETIE TAIJ{L\t; Nf.'Aff IHS FAVOT.tTE ~Bi]B:::IjWIEN. 1HEN SU11PEAJI:I, HE~~.'Ir~ A WDtiAN3 PE~7lJ 

lead to 35-32 with 18:47 to go before Macy triggered the deciding outburst with a 10-foot jumper. It was the first of seven consecutive Kentucky field goals. 
Louisvtlle 88, Cincinnati 73 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP)-­Sophomore forward Derek 
The Observer Thursday, February 7, 1980 -page 14 

SCUBALESSONS 
SpringSemester 
I 
Certified NAS-OS instruction
I 
\. 1e Be certified before finals 
l 
COlJRSE FEE INCLUDES: e Mask, fins, & t'norkel ~you keep} e All necessary rentals 
• All classroQrn materials 
!t...\S'f ~Ili\J'J(~J~: Tl) SIGN 
l (_fa~.-.;,~ ...: i r-·::.•: !'fnu:~da_v, ,f-';,,L~. 7th <-4 •. • .., ·•1) 1 
/~t: " ~·: ~ ~ • • i .._ ~--~ ;__ ( ~--.; ..
flo • 
. ' .
..:.. : :. 
( 
~ 
' ' 

~~NO ~ft>W LITTLE' CF IT EXI~T3. " 

ACROSS 25 Vamoose! 1 Drunks 28 Isolate 6 In-32 Durango 
(actually) dwelling 
10 Sacred bull 33 French 
14 Threefold painter 
15 Wing-shaped 34 Century 
16 Singer plant 
Cantrell 39 Seed 
17 Where Saul covering visited a 40 Hammett witch hero 
18 Emilia's 42 Persia man now 19 Unwritten 43 Domain 
20. Mother 45 Lat. abbr. Goose 46 San ­character (Italian 
23 Chemical resort) suffix 47 Ancient 24 Mystery ascetic awards 49 Places . for tots 
Wednesday's Results 

BAWL 
0 J A I 

~.-...~~·.5;-.~'Q:'­
". 
--~ ·-­
---· -.. ,. ... ~' .,.~ @"" ...,. R~-,r· J i · · ,.,. "" ~ ·· 
1 ¥· ~-~ ~ io f ?;.._} . , ~~ '""•.. ,: j j. ~
·.f..,~--'"' .. ·. ., .. -t .•.-... ~.· 
:. a. 
-~ T~·;l Neighboihood Study H~1p ?t·,_,gran~ needs 1ND-SMC student volunteers rt.' tutor grade Kilool children at the following times: MW 2:454:15 n 3:45-5:15 
These times include transoortation time which is provided free. Ifinterested, please call 
. 

JOHN SAX 232-1265. SUE CLAUS 4-1-4515 or 
.; .--"':"" .:::.:·-__ --.;..-. 
.. 
. ... . -~-;. . ·!'' ,•' 
. I 
by Michael Molinelli 
D 1'1W' IJHY ~G 
8'/"THE .s4Wa.4R lmiTHE 
BOWL or:~ 15LAAJD ~$NG UP.SICEI:aUN OIJ 
HtS HEAD~ 
Smith scored a career high 26 points to lead third-ranked Louisville to an 88-73 Metro Conference basketball victory over Cincinnati last night. 
After holding a slim 36-29 halftime advantage, Louisville opened the second period with a 13-4 surge that gave the Cardinals a 49-33 advantage with 14:22 left. 
50  Playground  11  Ski wear  
attraction  12  "Bombs  
54  Hypo units  bursting -"  
56  Mother  13  Dealership  
Goose  events  
character  21  Yorkshire  
63  Turkish  city  
commander  22  Product of  
64  Eagle of  reflection  
the sea  25  Wound mark  
65  Makeup item  26  Part of TLC  
66  "-Is Your  27  World  
Life"  section  
67  Ancient  29  Slangy  
Briton  negatives  
68  Neighbor of  30  Incensed  
Ethiopia  31  Family car  
69  Bite with  35  Cookie  
ac1d  seller  
70  German  36  Surface  
admiral  measurement  
71  Musical  37  Seductress  
composition  38  Son of Seth  
41  Opt  
DOWN  44  Repast  
1 Ragout  48  Wins all  
2  French  50  Roofmg  
river  material  
3  Adjutant  51  .. _Is  
4  D1~ ·•~iner .  Enough''  
at ,:>:;vice  52  ~"~'j' <11 :.  ·Je  
--~  : -· )l =--~ ~ • ·t;-­ ·.,_·;  • ' ..''):I  
•Jfii .r ·  



Virginia 73, Duke 69 

CHARLOTTESVILLE* Va. (AP)--Freshman Ralph Samp­son scored 16 points in the second half, including eight of Virginia's last 15, as the 18th ranked Cavaliers clipped no. 10 Duke 7 3,-69 in an Atlantic Coast Conference basketball game last night. 
Sampson, who finished with 20 pomts, picked up his fourth foul with 12:53 left and sat down before re-entering the game at the 7:25 mark with Virginia leading 58-54. The 7 ..4 cemer scored etght ofVirginia's next 10 points. 
LSU 68, Alabama 66 [OTJ 

TUSCALOOSA, Ala. (AP)-­Willie Sims hit two free throws with four seconds remaining to lead Louisiana State to a 68-66 overtime win o' ~-~ ,\labama in Southeastern Conference bas­ketball last night. 
LSU controlled the ball for the entire five-minute overtime and with four seconds left Mike Davis fouled Sims. 
• • . Rout 

[continued from page 16] 
in Branning's place, and had a game high of six assists ... the Irish owned a commanding 51-23 rebounding edge in the game.... .In an attempt to com­bat NO's superior height, Ma­honey started 7 ft. Chris Van Deurs at forward. But the young freshman got in early foul trouble and finally fouled out wit·h eleven minutes to go h'!-ving sc<Jn··.i onl~·-2 poi':l~ts ..... lnsh flJU£b.1 11 -tar '/a2;as t·ergu­S•Jn ·•.Ta" 1''' ... -r .. !~ , ~,l·.qu··· :" h,,_~~; il~i .. · ~, ·: · ,:·J ·r; _.. .-.:~ ·1:" _= ~i-lJJ 
• L, 
~ 

.. 
1 I •• 
: . , . ' II 
. ' ~ ' 
t· •:' : ..... -.... ._··· 
"l '·-­

~--~.~I: r:; .-..-_,-,-_ ,. -~ 
' •_i I ~ ~ : ;-..~~-:(• ~: 

\i~! -u1. iJ~.:---~,: ->f ~_:a; ~:~:~~(::;:: a~~nne . Total fouls--,,;;:,,;,: 'a?" 2f.. i~ot·e 0a'l;f 17' A--11.345 
Other scores 
Missouri 84, Iowa St. 70 LaSalle 84. Rhode Island 76 Ciemson 86, Wake Forest 69 · North Carolina State 60, Georgia Tech 49 Tennessee 100, Florida 76 
• , .Iran 

[cuntmued from page li 
The militants claimed they had found documents in which: 
The Central Intelligence A­gency, in the months before the revolution, described Minachi as a "moderate human rights activist'' seeking to reconcile Khomeini' s demands with a desire to rer'liu the Iranian !TI•1narchy. . 
hlnn::r; ·. '· _A,r~:b:l'-SaJ•"r \'('1!. 
:-~l~r~  ·-!~1~  v .i:  -~tJr, ,:_  ~~~nc.t:.  ~­ 
I  'i  '•:  ~­ 
..  


~f . .• 4-. L ~ -• ·< ' 
........... .-~... ·-...._ .. .. .. ·-~--·--­
< • 

..,
The Observer Thursday, February 7, 1980 -page 15 
lnterhall 
CO-REC RACQUETBALL DOUBLES 
Parti~ipants. are responsible for arrangung therr matches in each round. (Phone numbers are listed in parenthesis below.) Scores should be reported to the interhall office by next Wednesday or both participants will be removed from the 
tournament. 
Flahive-Halliwell (1468) v. Starich·Best (3887) Wegener-Walters (277 -0333) v _ Goyette· Biacek (8050) Bourgaily-Roesler (8021) v. Olson·Kiug (7942) Ledwidge·Hartman (6232) v. Myslieviec­Owens (1884) Looney-Yaeger (1398) v. Kahale-Marget (8148) Binkle·Binkowski (7983) v. Brown-Dorney 
(6987) Onufer·Dawson {1295) v. Disser·McCann (233-6229) Burton·Gallaher (6791) v. Skelley-earney (8036) 
\\~rest ling 
WESTERN MICH. 30, NOTRE DAME 8 
118--Mark Fisher (NO) dec Brad Baker, 
9-8. Beshlin, 8·6 126-·Western Michigan won by forfeit. HWT··Tom Wroblewski (N D) drew with 134-·Western Michigan won by forfeit Bob Veitch, 1-1 
142·-Tom Wiegand (WM) dec. Vic Zan· etti, 12·2 150-·Dave Welsh (N D) dec. E~ Walker 
3·2 • 158-·Brian Baughman (WM) dec. Mike Wilda, 7-3 167--Brad Sharp (WM) dec. Mike Tower 





Sports
4-1 ' 
177-·Steve Smith (WM) dec. John lglar10·3 ' 190-·John Schuler (WM) dec Maurice 

All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Dblerver office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail.


Classifieds 

..,. ­




.. 

Thursday, February 7, 1980 -page 16
-~orts 

Tripucka returns 
Everybody scores in Irish rout 
by Chns Needles Sports Wn.ter 
~rlando Woolridge and Kelly Tnpucka each scored 15 points last night as Notre Dame tuned up for its crucial contest with North Carolina State on Satur­day with a 93-49 thrashing of lowly Manh:utan (2-17) at the ACC. For the irish, now 16-3, it was their third victory in a row and ninth in their· last ten ourmgs. 
Woolridge shot seven of nine from the field, including six rousing slam dunks. ''The Tree" capped his dunking ~xhibition with 12:40 to go 111 the game when he took an alley-oop pass from guard John Paxson and jammed it through, much to the delight of the announced sellout crowd of 11,345. It marked the fourth time in the last five games that ~oolri~ge has paced the Irish tn sconng. 
Tripucka, returning to the 

Weary wrestlers fall to Broncos 
Orlando Woolndge continued his impressit/e play last night vs. Manhattan, scon.ng a game-high 15 points. [photo by Tom Jackman] 

by Bz/1 lvfarquard Sports wn.ter 
The Notre Dame Wrestling ream felt the after effects of a grueling National Champion­ship as they dropped a 30-8 decision to Western Michigan last night in the ACC. 
The Irish managed only two wins and a tie against the Broncos as their dual meet mark slipped to 4-10 on the year. Western Michigan, who now owns a 5-1 advantage in the all-time series between two schools, improved its season mark to 7-3. 
The Irish jumped out to an early 3-0 match lead when freshman 118-pounder Mark Fisher scored a 9-8 decision . over the Bronco's Brad Baker. Fisher a recently crowned Na­tional Catholic champion,­scored the first takedown of the match and rode that earlv advantage to victoy. ' 
I, 
I, 
"We were at a distinct disad-
But thtlrish found themselves on the short end of a 12-3 team vantage because of the recent score soon thereafter, as injur­National Catholics," remarked ies forced Notre Dame forfeits a tired coach Ray Sepeta. at 126 and 134 pounds. Regular "Most of the team did not 
126-pounder Curt Rood suf­return home until Monday, and fered strained ligaments in his after wre'S'tling between four left thumb one and a half weeks and six matches on Sunday, it ago and will be lost to the Irish was difficult to be on top of for the remainder of the season, things.'' 
while senior captain Dave DiSa­The Irish hope to be rested in bato (134) was recuperating time for this Saturday's triang­from a variety of ailments which . ular meet in Milwaukee against 
he aggravated in last week­Marquette and Winona State. end's National Catholic Tourna-Action is slated for 1 p.m. 
starting lineup after missing the last four contests with a back sprain, showed po effects of his injury as he shot six of seven from the floor while grabbing a team high of nine rebounds. ''I wanted to start Kelly tonight,'' commented Irish coach Digger Phelps, ''be­cause, oovwusly, I want him to start on Saturday. His game seems to be coming along nicely." 
Notre Dame started slowly, bur were able to build leads of 10-0 and 20-2 in the first ten minures. Thanks to an aggres­sive man-ro-man defense, Man­hattan missed irs first five shots from the floor. Finally, sopho­more guard John Leonard (10 points) broke the ice with a base lin< jumpe1 7: 15 into the con­test to pull the Jaspers within 10-2, but they were unable to 
· draw any closer the rest of the way. Guard Mike Mitchell's 34 io"oter at the buzzer gave NO a commanding 44-18 halftime­lead and the Irish never looked back. As it turned out, the second half. featured many of the game's exciting moments. With 
10:09 remaining, Phelps re­placed his entire starting five, which built the lead to 67-30. Junior Gil Salinas, also coming . off an injury(to his ankle), was impressive in pumping in 11 points and snaring 7 rebounds in 15 minutes of action. Off the bench, Bill Varner, the fresh­forward who has been steadily improving throughout the sea­son, contributed 10 points, and also won the admtratton of Jasper's coach Brian Mahoney. 
"I like that Varner," said the second year head coach. "He's gonna be a good one someday. The 6-6 Varner also dazzled the :spectators with a Doctor J -like over-the-head slam dunk on a breakaway a·ith :30 left. 
With the outcome no longer in doubt, Phelps sent in the "walk-ons" (Tim Healy, Kevin Hawkins and Marc Kelly) with 5:-21 t~ go, their earliest appear­ance tn recent memory. 1c was also probably their last ACC appearance this season because of ND' s difficult remaining home schedule. Healy, a senior, made the most of his final home game. He scored six points, includin~ two long jump shots, to the delight of the fans. 
Next up for the Irish is the North Carolina State Wolfpack Saturday night at the ACC. "They're a very deceiving­team,'' stated Phelps. ''They gave Maryland their only ACC (Atlantic Coast Conference) de­feat (a 67-62 decision in early January). I expect a game very 
much  ..  like#  our  Maryland  
game.  
GAME  NOTES:  Guard  Rich  
Branning  sat  our  the  contest  

with a slightly sprained wrist syffered in Monday's victory over Navy. Phelps said that the senior co-captain should be ready by Saturday. Freshman John Paxson made his first start 
[continued on page 14] 
Box score 

-page 14 


ment . 
At 150 pounds Dave Welsh evened hts match score by an escape with :18 seconds left and benefitted from one riding time 



Ken MacAfee-all in the hands 
point in posting Notre Dames only other win by a 4-3 margin PHILADELPHIA--At first you may have trouble over Ed Walker. Senior heavy remembering the face; it's a little bit thinnerand weight Tom Wroblewski recor­a lot cleaner-shaven than the last time you saw ded the last two points for the it. He says hello and, while the voice is familiar, Irish, fighting to a tough 1-1 it may not quite ring the bell of recognition.

draw with Bob Veitch in the Then you shake his hand, and you know ... 

match finale. 

You see, there's no mistaking the hands. 
The hands that pulled down passes most receivers wave bye-bye to as they sail into the uncharted regions of space. The hands of a four-year starter and star that helped the 1977 edition of the Notre Dame football team to an 11-1 record and a national championship. The left hand still wears that title ring that says he and his partner rarely made a mistake. 
A little less worn and slightly better manicured these days, the hands are catching passes (although not so frequently) with the San Francisco entry·of the National Football League. And when they aren't doing that, they're patiently training to become the hands of a dentist at the University of Pennsylvania. 
"I guess you could say I'm keeping pretty busy," lau~hs Ken MacAfee. "You know we (San Franctsco) had the worst record in-the league last year and that frustrates someone like me who came from a winning program like Notre Dame. The pros aren't like Notre Dame at all. I don't like it as much ... being there makes you want for Notre Dame a lot more.'' 
He pauses and compares what he left and what he left it for. 
''College football is just different,'' he reflects. ''And Notre Dame is unique among colleges. No team college or pro, has a tradition like Notre Dame. If I had my choice, I'd have played my entire career at Notre Dame ... but I doubt if the NCAA would have liked that.'' 
He claims he is healthy these days although the San Francisco media guide suggests he'll play even better when he overcomes the "nagging injuries" that plague most combatants in the pro football wars. 
"Well, I did have some problems with my knee," he admits. "Surgery and all that, but I 

Frank LaGrotta 
Sports Writer 
think it's coming along fine. It isn't easy making it through 16 games in the NFL. If a player does that, they should give him some sort of medal. Maybe a Purple Heart?" 
Notre Dame teammates, Ernie Hughes and Joe Montana have ~ince joined MacAfee in the Bay Area and he thmks both players have a bright future in the NFL. 
"Ernie is playing really well and the coaches think Joe had a real good rookie season,'' he reveals. ")oe's been bothered with back spasms but he started the St. Louis game and played pretty well. Blame the receivers for that one. Hell, I think we dropped eight or nine passes that day. Can't win a game like that." 
What's this? The hands are dropping passes these days? MacAfee just smiles. 
"There's no doubt that my pro career--at least until now--hasn't been as gratifying as my Notre Dame years," he shrugs. "I think it's a combinati_on of many things: the. coaching, the travel, dtfferent teammates, dtfferent ideas about the tight end's role in the offense. I can tell you this; I've been doing a lot more blocking and a lot less catching since I left South Bend.'' 
Then there's nothing to worry about?  The  
hands, I mean...  
"Nah,"  he  grins  as  if  remembering  the  

corner-of-the-endzone catch he made against Southern Cal to further inflate a 49-19 score. Or the ~ay the hands humiliated defenses by catchmg 54 passes~-the most ever for an Irish tight end--in 1977. 
"Nah, they're just fine," he assures as he clasps them together and fidgets with his ring. "In fact, they've never been better-." 
Now all they need is a chance to prove it. 





