, , , Track-page8 
VOL. XIV NO. 83 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1980 
Bani-Sadr 
Women profs opt out of 

drops Shah 
landmark court case 
by Mary Fran Callahan 
'requirement' 
StaffReporter 
Sixty-two out of 130 women eligible to sue in the Frese sex 
(AP) Iranian President Abol­discrimination lawsuit pending against the University_ opted out of hassan Bani-Sadr was quoted the case Friday, while four of the potential six plaintiffs in the Ford yesterday by a French news­tenure case did the same. paper as saying his government The Frese case alleges discrimination against non-tenured is no longer demanding return faculty women while the Ford case involves tenured faculty. of the deposed shah before the Originally planned to be tried as class action suits, the cases may release of the American hos­no longer be tried as such because of Friday's announced tages which could occur "per­withdrawals. haps even in the coming days.'' Charles Barnhill, a member of the Chicago based law firm 
In Tehran, Ayatollah Ruhol­Davis, Miner & Barnhill which is representing the faculty women, lah Khomeini marked the first said yesterday he views the women's decisions in a positive light anniversary of his Islamic rev­since 68 have opted to remain participants in the lawsuit .. olution Iran by vowing to co~­"It depends on what perspective you take. I am extremely tinue battle against "the ruth­gratified that 68 women have opted to stay in,'' he commented. less devourer," the United Barnhill said he understood why the 62 faculty women withdrew States. He made no mention of from the Frese suit. "I would guess they are a little nervous. Notre the hostages, who marked their Dame has yet to act on their tenure decisions. The University has lOOth day in captivity. life and death control over these women," he explained. 
Masses of jubilant Iranians However, Barnhill confidently added that the case has a strong celebrated the revolution's an­legal foundation which actual numbers cannot touch. "The niversary with a victory parade statistics and evidence will speak for themselves," he said. through Tehran. The crush was Yesterday, a spokesperson in the County Clerk's office said that so gr.:at a grandstand col­a de-certification (a request to drop class action status. from a lapsed, killing one person and lawsuit) has been filed for the Ford case by the University. injuring 66 others, including Attorneys have not yet taken any such action on the Frese case. four who were hospitalized, At a Jan. 28 hearing, Federal District Court Judge Allan Sharp Tehran radio said. It said three set Feb. 29 as the deadline for attorneys to file de-certifications. other persons in the crowd were Though one for Ford has already been filed, the judge will not killed when they were hit by a Proving why they are second to none, Domers do it upstde . hand down a decision until after the deadline expires. tank during the parade of down. [Photo by Greg Maurer] Timothy McDevitt, assistant general counsel for the University, security forces. justified the Ford de-certification. ''There is not legal precedent 
AccorJing to the Paris news­for a class action suit when only two women are involved," he 
paper LeMonde , Bani-Sadr explained. said the release ot the hostages McDevitt said that the University Counsel has not yet made a was possible, "perhaps ev<tn in decision on whether or not they will file a de-certification on the

Civiletti defends FBI 
the coming days," if the U.S. Frese case, comment~ng, "It's too early to tell." government-acknowledged its • • • According to county records, the Equal Opportunity Employ­
"crimes" in Iran over the past ment Commission (EEOC) has now officially declared itself as an

tnvesttgatton
quarter century and pled~ed to interviewer in the Ford case. No other information regarding the stay out of Iranian affairs. It EEOC's role is currently available. must also recognize Iran's right WASHINGTON (AP) -Attorney andJohn W.Jenrette, D-S.C. The question then arises of whether legal precedents set by to ·'obtain the restitution of the General Benjamin R. Civiletti Last week a source close to the class action lawsuits carry more signifigance than those shah and his fortunes," Bani­said yesterday he believes the investigation had said a ninth established by regular lawsuits. Sadr was quoted as saying. He FBI's undercover bribery inves­member of Congress was in a Dempsey Cox, a South Bend attorney with Cox & Albright & said he was waiting fot Khom­tigation will go no further in gray area between being clear­Associates, commented, "There is no real difference." Cox eini to make a decision on the Congress than the eight mem­ed and being a subject of the explained that legal precedents are determined by decisions proposal, perhaps in the next bers already implicated. investigation. The source said [continued on page 5] few days. The militants' opin­Civiletti, also defended the yesterday the ninth man had ion on the proposal was not FBI against suggestions of en­since been cleared, but refused known. trapment in its investigative to identify him. 
Cooling system cracks;
The official Pars news agency methods, w~ich involved use of The ninth man had been said Bani-Sadr had been mis­agents posmg as representa­approached by intermediaries quoted but did not say what the tives of Arab Investigators. in the investtgation but had • alleged misquote was. "Crimes were not created by turned them down, and had· 
krypton gas leaks 
In Washington, State Depart­the FBI at all," he said, while never met with undercover FBI ment spokesman Hodding Car­conceding that some judge men, this source said. "He is MIDDLETOWN, Pa. (AP) -A described by Heinz would be ter said the United States wil: might decide a middleman or not among those congressmen cooling ~ystem containing high­very small. 
not ''profess guilt'' for its informant might have engaged who have revealed their con­ly radioactive water sprung a ·'Three hundred millicuries is record in Iran as part of a deal in t>ntranment. tacts with intermediaries," said leak Monday at the Three Mile about a third of a curie, and to win release of the hostages. "Other than the unfortunate, the source, who asked not to be Island nuclear power plant, and there's 53,000 curies in the Carter ruled out that possibility regrettable and inexcusable named. Sen. John Heinz said he learn­containment building," Polon when he was asked about the leaks that have endangered Three New Jersey congress­ed that it resulted in the escape said, referring to the huge statement by Bani-Sadr. Carter innocent persons by identifying men, Reps. James Howard of some radioactive krypton separate building that houses had no further comment on the them specifically, there are no William Hughes and Jarne~ gas. the plant's damaged reactor. American efforts to release the other senators or congressmen Florid, all Democrats, have Plant officials and the U.S. In Washington, NRC SJ?okes­
hostages. to my knowledge in any way publicly said they turned down Nuclear Regulatory Commis­man Frank Ingram saJd no According to the newspaper, related to the Abscam investi­approaches from intermedia­sion had said there was no krypton gas had been detected Bani-Sadr also said: gation,'' he told a National nes. measurable release of radioac­at various measuring stations 
--He had made a separate Press Club luncheon. A companion investigation, tive material outside the da­outside the plant. proposal that the Americans be Abscam is the FBI code name code-named "Brilab" for bri­maged plant when the leak Authorities earlier said the removed in the next few days for the 16-month operation that bery-labor, involves alleged bri­spillect as much as 1.000 gallons leakage of contaminated water from the guard of the Islamic resulted in allegations that bery attempts in connection of water inside an auxiliary posed no health threat. 
militants to a third party. He about 20 public officials and 10 with the award of state govern­building. ''The leak has been isolated said that, too, would have to be businessmen took part in bri­ment and union health insu­But Heinz, R-Pa., said he and stopped. The water has 
approved by the Revolutionary bery attempts by undercover rance contracts. Public officials toured the plant following the been contained inside the auxi­Council which he heads as well agents in exchange for promi­in Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, .leak and was told of the krypton li~try building," said John Col­as by Khomeini. ses ?f political favors or other and Louisiana have been impli­release by control room opera­liils, head of operations at the 
--He would ''never resort'' to services. cated, and a grand jury in New tor Dick Wilson. NRC's office here. 
violence against the Islamic So far, members of Congress Orleans will begin taking testi­"It appears there was a re­''There has been no indication militants. "In the case of a implicated in the operation are mony in the case on Thursday. lease of arproximately 300 mil­of airborne activity off site. divergence of views, I would Sen. Harrison A Williams Jr., Civiletti said he could not licuries o krypton gas . . . It There was no danger to any of eventually' go the U.S. Embassy D-N.J ., and Reps. John M. guarantee that some judge was released into the atmo­the workers on the isl~md or off 
might not decide that a middle­
to convince them to fall in line Murphy, D-N.Y.; Frank sphere-,'' Heinz said. the island,'' he added. with my view." Thompson Jr., D-N.J.; Michael man in the bribery investigation Sandy Polon, head of the However, the auxiliary build­
a 0. Myers, D-Pa.; Raymond had crossed the line into en-plant's public relations office, ing, which .adjoins the building 1--He favored compro-
Lederer, D-Pa.; Richard Kelly, said he knew of no such [continued on page 5] R-Fla.; John P. Murtha, D_-Pa., [continued on page 3] discharge, but said the amount (continued on page 5] 




News in brief 
Tuesday, February 12, 1980-page 2 

~~==========~================= 
Police put the bite on man's Phoenix House offers recovering women 
mysterious reception ofmusic 
RIVERHEAD, N.Y. (AP)-George Dillard cal~ed police twice 1 
to complain that altho~gh ht; had n? radiO on, he; w~s 
somehow hearing a radw statton pla_ymg hard rock m hts 
head. The police dispatcher advtsed.. th.~ ~6-year-<_Jld carpenter to "just go take a couple of aspm~ •.. Dtllard satd. · "So I did thar. But after I lay down, the m_ustcJtvc; started up i in my ear again.'' He called for a second ~tme un.ng the wee hours yesterday and ~olice. Officer Davtd Ch~shtre, went to Dillard's home. Putttng hts ea~ rt;xt t~ Dtllard_s head, Cheshire heard the music too. Ftddlmg w_tth a radto. ar the radio at the same time, the officer dtscovered tt was WKCI·FM, across Long Island Soun_d in ,Hamden, Conn., d1a1 seemed to be playing through ~tllard s skull. The next move was w ask Dillard w take out hts brand new fa~se. teeth. That did the trick. The dentures evidently were pickmg up 
•he radio transmission. 


Tito 's amputation runs into complications 
13ELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) -Pr~sident Josip Broz Tito, who had been reported making a stron~ recovery from the amputation of his left leg, now has dtgestive and kidney troubles, his doctors say. A medical bulletin, issued Sunday by doctors at Ljubljana Hospital, said the 87-year-old ruler's recover} had slowed in the last few days because of. a "diEestive disturbance and the appearance of certatn difficulties in connection with the function of his kidneys. 

Doctor reports unnecessary premature births oftenfatal 
PEORIA, Ill (AP) -Mistakes by p~ysicians. may cause more than one fourth of the cases of respiratory distress syndrome, the leading cause of illness an~ ~eath among newbo~ns, according to a new study. Dr. ~tlham F. ~owers, associa~e director of the Neonatal lntenstve Care Umte of St. Francis Hospital, said doctors apparently are allowing unnec_essary premature births -which mcrease the chances of resplfatory distress syndrome, known as RDS. 

IOC ban on ROC may cause Olympics to see Reds 
ALBANY, N.Y. (AP) -A middle-level _appeals c<_>urt upheld Thursday the International Olymptc..Comf!llttee ~ules requiring that Taiwan atheletes who parttctpate to the Wtnter Olympics in Lake Placid must not use the .flag or anthem of the Republic of China. If upheld by htg~er courts, th_e decision could provoke a walkout by the Tatwanese. But tt would clear the way to the first participat.ion ev~r b_y the People's Republic of China, or commumst Chma, m an Olympics. 

Weather 
\lo:-.11}' sunny today wtth highs in the mid ~o upper. 20s. \1o-;dy clear tonight ~i1 h lows I0 to 15. lncreasmg cloudmes::. ·umurrow w11h htghs tn the upper 20s. 


CamP-~us_------1 
10 am-4 pm ACADEMIC APPAREL SALE, for faculty, ND UOOKSTORE 
4 pm POOL CLINIC, paul gerni, LAFORTUNE BASEMENT 
4:30pm SEMINAR, "popular science and its us~s," dr. john st·vi<:r, iusb ND GLAVIN AUD, sponsored by bwlogy dept. 
6 pm MEETING college republicans ND LITTLE THEATRE LAFORTUNE 
6-12 pm MARDI GRAS,STEPAN CENTER, entertainment nightly, conrinues feb l2-feb.l6rh. admission $1. 50. 
7 pm MEETING, faculty senate, 202 CCE. 
8 pm POETRY READING, nikki giovanni, LIBRARY AUD., sponsored by suac and black cult. arts festival. 
alcoholics a temporary home 
by Molly Woulfe StaffReporter 

The red brick, Georgian man­
sion is set on a hill behind 
dense woods on Miami Street in 
South Bend. 
The interior of the home is 
magnificent, with high ceiling~, 
exquisite paneling, and multi-
paned windows. A staircase of 
tm~orted Italian marble, with a 
soltd brass railing, leads to the 
second floor. 
But the billiards room has 
been converted to a chapel, and 
the furniture, all donated, is 
worn, through still serviceable. 
This is Phoenix House, an 
independent, temporary live-in 
home for recovering alcoholic 
women, primarily from Saint Joseph County. 
Mary Donna Krieghbaum and Mary Alic "Pepper" Allen are co-directors of Phoenix House, both recovering alcoholics, as is the housekeeper, Verna H. In an informal, protected, home­like environment, women are encouraged ''to obtain ongoing, lasting, sobriety," Allen ex­plained.
Built in the 1920's, the former Erskin mansion was purchased by the Sisters of the Holy Cross and remodeled into a boarding school for girls. Last year the Sisters leased it to a 21-member 
board of direcotrs, consisting of businessmen and women, priests, and recoverins alcoho­lies, to set up "as spintual, not religious" center for women with drinking problems. According to Allen, alcoholism among women has risen sharp­
truckdrivers, even nurses guilt, without dishonor. . 
here," Verna H. stated. "We learn to take on responst­
"We're a cross-section of hu-bilities, have honest relation­
manity. Alcoholism is a com-shi~s, an.d live in .a. dri_nki~g 
pulsion, a disease, for which soCiety without parucipanng 10 
there !~ no cure, only absti-the drinking. 
nence. "Total abstinence from alco­
"There's no medical explana-hoi is necessary; just one drink, 
tion for it," Allen agreed. "It one, anrl an alcoholic would 
hits any age, any sex, any creed keep or. going," she added. 
or race. They used to say you Allen emphasized that a candi­
don't find Jewish alcoholics--its date for Phoenix House must 
not true." personally want to be there, 
Phoenix House's three-month and guarantee a 72-hour period 
program for alcoholic women of sobriety before applymg at 
consists of one-to-one talk ses-the center for residency. She 
sions, group conferences, six must also complete a physical 
mandatory Alcoholics Anony-examination, and be inter­
mous meetings per week, and viewed before being 1ccepred 
work therapy. After one week 111 Once a resident, every woman 
the home, residents are encour-must follow the home rules, 
aged to find a daytime job in the continue sobriety, be willing to 
South Bend Community. accept personal responsiblity, 
Board is $60 a week, if and show concern for the other afforable, and the women are members of the house, and its expected to help with house-overall spirit. keeping and chores. Curfew is Phoenix House is one of 18 11 p.m., and visiting hours self-sufficient halfway houses from l to 6 p.m. on Sundays. in the United States, and one of Toward the end of their stay, the few exclusively for women. women may go home twice, on It is supported by private two one-night weekend passes, donations, fund drives, and "to see if they can handle it," '":atholic Charities. Allen explained. 
Over 60 women have ''gradu­ated" from Phoenix House 
80 81 Do since its opening last April, and -me the center currently boasts an 
k 
80% success rate. Alumnae see S often keep in close contact with next edt.tor 
the home, and participate in fund drives and outings. Most Anyone interested in runnmg continue to attend AA meet-for the position of Editor-in ings. Chief of the DOME, Yearbook 
According to A1len, "AA is a of the University of Notre way of life. Its a program Dame, should contact AI Dreyer a~yone would be bett~r off at 3138, 7524, or 7308 by 

ly in the last few years, and. with; its clean living wtthout Monday, Feb. 18. 
there is a definite need for Phoenix House in South Bend.
At the moment there are six residents in the home; there is 
room for twelve. The women 
usually ranse for 18-year-olds to women m their sixties, of various backgrounds. 
"We've had bankers' wives, doctors' wives, waitresses, 
~The Observer_ 
Night Editor: Ryan "call a doctor!" Ver Berkmoes 
Asst. Night Editor: Cindy Kliros 
Copy Editor: Tom Jackman Layout Staff Sal Granata News Editor: Mike Shields Sports Layout: John Smith Typists: Mary Beth Budd, Kate Huffman, George Bi­ron, Scoop Sullivan 
EMT: S. Paul Selavko 
Proofreader: Maryellen "0­mar'' Bradley 
ND Day Editor: Lisa Stan­
czak SMC Day Editor: Cece Ba­liles 
Ad Deszgn: Joe Murphy Photographer: Greg Maurer Guest Appearances: NFO'B Dave Wemhoff and his Texas hydrant ... Paper of the week goes to John Smith's crew. Nice going John! 
The Observer [USPS 5811 !120[ II publilhtd Monday through Friday IX­cept during exam 1nd viCitlen plriodl. The Observer 11 publisllld by till students Ill Notre 011111 11111 Saint Miry's Colllgl. Sublcriptila lillY Ill pun:hlstd lor S20 111f yur l$11 p1r lllllllter(lrom The Observer. 1'.0. bn Q, Nitre blmt,lndiiRI 4651i6. Slclnd cl111 "=' paid, Notre D11111, ln­
dilna . 
The Observer il 1 lllllllblr If 1111 A.uoci1tld Pms. All !tplllllictlln rights lr1 mervld. 
.--~------~--~--~---,....,..--,._,.-........,.....
Send a s·.ng·•ng Valent·lne 
....._.. 
20 DIFFERENT SONGS 50¢ for LOCAL CALLS $2.50 for LONG DISTANCE 
Proceeds go to St. Mary's Chamber Singers Tour Fund ON SALE NOW AT ND-SMC DINING HALLS 
HAVE A COMPLAINT? 1 BE THERE I 
ST. MARY'S PARKING REGULATIONS LEMANS LOBBY 6:00pm WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13 



~,~~ 
53600 N. Ironwood
~~~0~~ ~alentines Day is February 14 It's not too late to order I 272-8820 
REmEmBER: ANYTHING GROWS Posy Van wll be at Stepan Center on Thurs., Feb. 14 from 12-2 


The Observer Tuesday,February 12, 1980-page 3 

Professor ofMicrobiology Moms Pollard ts to deliver a lecture on cancer research on Thursday. Pollard will be the first speaker in the ND Distinguished Science Lecture Sen.es. See story. [Photo 
by Greg Maurer] 
Lhlllg ra1s a-; a model system. 1"111-.. JJltludes the injection of 
1um"r cells. observing meta­
sla-..1-..: expenmen1ing with 
drug". and no1111g the effects 
lilt·-..\' h,l\"t' <Jll the cancer, both 
111 lll)t'Lied animals and those 
w11h sp11111ancously formed 
1\1111111"'> 
llt·lm-1 rlT ra1·; are al-;o used ''' -..ILllh dH· role the immune -..\·-..,t·m pla1·,., in. the ongins of 

Iranpower struggle 
•


conttnues 
F..DITOR 'S NOTte. -The writer, wmner of a Pulitzer Prize for Vtetnam war 1epotting, spent a mont/., in Iran and le;i in late ./<~llu ..·ry after the got•ernment urder, d the expulsion of cor­rt 1ponde,,ts j.:1r l ·.s. new.,-or­g,uuz,i/wns. 7his ,zrtide is bas 
e.l on infvrm<~tion gathered in !run before hzs depart11re. 
by. Peter Arnett 

by Peter Arnett AP Special Correspondent 
Iran's 36 million people, who ell her enthusiastically support­ed the overthrow of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahbvi or did Jl<Hhing to prt. vcm it, now are w11ne-sing a multi-sided power "' ruggle among h1:; successors. 
l"he outcome will dl"t·<:rmine tran's new place in the world. It alsu will eithn resolve or complicate one of the more b1Larre acts of the revolution ­i11c raking and holding of hos1ages at r(le American Em­bassy in Tehran, a stege now in i1s lOOih day. 
\1illions marched triumphant­ly in the streets when the shah·s 3H-year reign was ended with his \JUster a year age, but the government was almost totally unglued in the riotous aftermath. 
As authority collapsed behind fleeing official<>, or was immobi­lized by the summary execu­tions of many who stayed behind, problems such as these began shaking the faith of millions in the revolution. 
Powerful minorltles in three s1 rategic border regions chal­lenged the pditical underpin­nings of the revolution, result­ing in bloOdy clashes that averted becommg civil war only through continuing compro­mtse. 
The economy collapsed along with the government, and no 
I [contz'?fued on page 4] 
LAKE PLACID, N.Y. (AP)-In politically disturbed Lake Placid on the eve of the 1980 01 >·mpic Winter Olympics, there appear­ed no thawing of oppc•sitic n yesterday to a U.S. plea w pull the Summer Garnes out of the Soviet Union. 
The argument over whether the Summer Olympics should be held in Moscow continued before the International Olym­pic Committee, while courts dealt with another politically rooted issue in Albany, not far away. 
The Appellate Division of state Supreme Court upheld the com­mittee's rule barring Taiwan athletes from using the flag or anthem of the Republic of China. 
If upheld by higher courts, the decision could provoke a walk­out by the Taiwanese. But it would clear the way for the first participation ever by the People's Republic of China, or 
communist  China,  in  the  
Winter Olympics.  
The  unanimous  decision  re­ 

versed a ruling last Thursday by state Supreme Court Justice Norman L. Harvey of Platts­burgh. But lawyers for the Taiwanese immediately headed for the Court of Appeals, the state's highest court, to file an appeal. 
With the Winter Games set to start Tuesday, Robert Kane, president of the U.S. Olympic Committee, again presented President Carter's demand that the Summer Games be moved from Moscow, postponed or canceled if the Soviets do not withdraw their troops from Afghanistan by Feb. 20. 
. .. Bribery 
[<"~-nlinued from page 1] 
trapment. "Judges do not a­gree with the government's conduct in every such in­slance," he said. 
Uut the attorney general said the question of entrapment was "carefully considered" by the FBI and the Justice Depart­ment's criminal division and ''measured decisions were made.'' 
In New Jersey, Gov. Brendan Byrne endorsed a bipartisan proposal to abolish the state's part-time Casino Control Com­mission, some of whose mem­bers have been implicated in the bribery investigation, and replace it with a full: time panel. 

Carter has said he will ask that no U.S. team be sent to Moscow if his conditions are not met. 
U.S. officials abroad have lobbied other friend'y govern­ments to take the same stand. 
But there were strong in­dications that the International Olympic Committee would re­ject Carter's plea before it con­cluded its special session in Lake Placid on Tuesday. Lord Killanin, president of the inter­naitonal committee, had said repeatedly the Summer Games could not be moved. 
In the Albany courtroom, Tai­wan pressed its challenge to the arrangements made by the International Olympic Com­mittee to have China compete in the Winter Olympics for the first time since the Communist takeover in 1949. 
Taiwan was trying to over­turn rules that forbid it to com­pete as the Republic of China and require it to use a different flag and anthem than it cur­rently uses. 
In a concession to mailand 
China, which has refused to 
compete in international sport 
with any team that calls itself 
tht> Republic of China, the 
International Olympic Com­
mittee had told Taiwan to use 
the name Taipeh Olympic Com­
mittee and to change its flag 
and anthem. 
Taiwan won a lower-court order overturning the rule, but the international committee and the Lake Placid Olymic Organ­izing Committee appealed. The Taiwanese contended they were the victims ofunfair discrimina­tion since the Olympic com­mittee did not dictate what names other countries use. 
1980 CKeeR.CeAOOKG 
T~~Kigfd 
7:00 1Jttt ~. 'fd,., 14 iK flee A.C.C. Pit 



A friend of a heavy drinker? 
HELP!I JOIN A SUPPORT GROUP 

8 pm every Sunday Saint Mary's Student Govt. Offices 


"/.
·~ ' 
)
OUR 
1;1EPAPE FOR: ] ~~:: 
MCIT•DAT•LSAT ·OMIT ~ ORE· ORE PSYCH· ORE BID PCAT•OCAT•VAT· MAT· SAT 
liMBI.H.m·ECFMO·FLEX·VQE 
NOB I, D • NPB I • NLE 
Flexible Programs & Hours 
Visit Any Center And See For Yourself Why We Make The Difference 
~~:
EDUCA TJONAL CENTER


291-3150 
TEST PREPARATION SPECI~LISTS SINCE 1938 
Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800-223-1782 
C~nters 'n More Than 80 Major US Cities Puerto Rico, Toronto. Canada & Lugano Switzerland 
--: 


gend ffiat gpectaQ gomeone a C\JaQenttne~g COay C})engonaQ in ffie (0bgellVeft • 


1dooen wo~tdg -1doQQalt 
(IO'owowl~) 

DEADLINE Ipm TOMORROW 

··-
..... .. -~ ....
~ 
------~--­
The Observer 
Tuesday,February 12,1980-page 4 


Tht:: nurse makes sure that thzs ND student gets the point as he aw..z1ts carr::ful attention at the Student Health Center. Perhaps h~ IS sujjerrng a malady simzlar to that of Monday's Night I:d1tor. [Photo by Phz/ johnson) 







deuce 
Dance band now booking· for spring formals 
(616) 926-8882 



SAVE 50C 

Crime on increase 
Students complain about parking 
by.Bn'dget Berry 25 minutes. He said that David adding that most of the stu­Disabato, also a Stanford res­dents being victimized in the 
Four incidents of vandalism ident, and Bill Panny of Grace dorms do not have their doors have been reported to Security Hall had suffered similar locked. "It is very difficult for so far this month. One student, losses. someone to break into a dorm Tony Murphy, a freshman resi­room. dent of Stanford Hall, said that Rakaw said that vandalism in 
Terry also commented onhe suffered a loss of over $450 the parking lots was not anxiety expressed by womenlast week because of Security's considered to be a major prob­students about recent intru­
negligence. lem, especially since many sions in their dorms.
''They go hang out in Flanner incidents reported as vandalism because of the weather while were actually minor accidents. He reported that two boys our cars are being vandalized," He said that most thefts on who had entered both Walsh he said. campus occur in the A.C.C. or and Breen-Philips, spying on 
Glenn Terry, director of Se­in the dorms. Many students girls in the showers, had been curity, said that there had been leave valuables unattended caught and handled through the no rash of incidents this semes­while playing raquetball, he Park View Detention Home and ter. He said that although no explained. the Juver,ile Probate Court. He one is stationed in the lots, a "People have responsibility said that occurences of that sort motorized patrol circulates fre­for their own goods,'' he said, were rare. quently. He added that Notre Dame students are employed over the weekend as an added precaution. 
• • .Power struggle

Rex Rakow, assistant director 
ofSecurity, said that traffic flow should offer further protection, [continued from page 3] rial elections. The ayatollah saw but that students too often the major political parties rais­
allow suspicious incidents to go solutions so far have been ing serious challenge his
a to 

unreported. offered for rapidly rising unem­own dominance so he adriotly
ployment and unaccustomed

He explained that although withheld his support from any
food shortages.

Security does question '.:Wan­special candidate, allowing the derers" and "loiterers " it is Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, independent Bani-Sadr with his very difficult to catch ~an dais. the inheritor of shah-like autho­blend of nationalism, radica­
Murphy estimated that rity in Iran, was suddenly 
lism, and Islamic fervor to romp
s1 ric ken with heart problems,

thievl's must have been in his home the winner. car with the light on for at least raising fears that the country 
It was 15 years ago in France
would be a rudderless ship in 
that Bani-Sadr is said to have
increasingly rougher political 
told ) ean-Paul Sartre, theseas. 
French writer-philosopher: "I
·'The goal of the current 
will be the first !?resident of

Woman draft p·.>wer struggle to
is pick up Iran.'' He is tackl111g head-on
enough of the pieces to effec­
the issue that has once already

• tively lead the country," said 
nearly destroyed his political

questton 
one of the few Western diplo­
career -the freeing of the
mats still residing on Tehran's 
American hostages.
Embassy Row.


up to courts 
At stake for the Iranian peoJ?Ie The Peoples Committees ­is not only a new foreign policy most notoriously ·'the studentsWASHINGTON (AP) The but also the extent to which following the Imam'' (Khomei­courts likely will have the final their lives will be rolled back to ni) now in residence at the U.S.

word in draft registration for an era of austerity and Islam­Embassy -who grabbed grass­women, and legal scholars say 
inspired moral regulation. This roots power after the revolutionthat probably means women already has resulted in the and currently exercise dutieswill be signing up for service. 

banishment of female vocalists once held by police and govern­Congress seems cool to the from radio and television, the ment regulatory agencies.

idea of registering women, a 
segregation of Caspian Sea 

concept supported by President There are an estimated 15,000
beaches by sexes, and the

Carter and his advisers. of these locally formed commit­
banning ofalcohol and dancing.

But Thomas-Emerson, a pro­tees, and they often work in
Regional political chaos and

fessor of constitutional law at conjunction with the Revolu­
economic decline are seen as a

Yale University, says, "Which­tionary Guards, the rag-tag
continuing consequence offrag­

ever way it goes (in Congress), warnors who are the armed
mented leadership.

there will be a suit filed. instruments of the ayatollah's
For the United States, a strong

There's no way that the courts rule. The committees are ulti­
Iranian government able to 

can avoid it.'' mately responsive to the wishes
dictate to the student-jailers

David Lanau, a staff attorney of Khomeini, even the commit­
holding the hostages srems the 

at the American Civil Liberties tee of student militants from
only way to resolve the issue

Union office here, vowed, "The four Tehran universities who
without bloodshed. For the 

day that the president signs invaded the U.S. Embassy last
longer term, political stability is 

(male-only registration), we will Nov. 4, taking the staff inside
essential to assure Iran's place 
hostage.

be in court." 
as a buffer to Soviet expansion

Carter announced Friday he through central Asia to the The studenrs· gained local wants to register men and Persian Gulf oil fields, a possi­acclaim and international noto­
bility brought chillingly closer riety for their brazen act, but saying, "There is no distinction by the intervention in Afghani­individually they remain a­possible, on the basis of ability 

sian. nonymous and are expected to or performance. '' The main players in Iran's sink into political oblivion if White House officials said a power game are: Bani-Sadr can convince the major factor in his decision was ayatollah to order the hostages
Ayatollah Khomeini, 79, ailing

the prospect of court chal­
but still the acknowledged fa­freed. 

lenges ifwomen were excluded. The Revolutionary Council,
ther of the revolution, who The Supreme Court has yet to through his Revolutionary like most Iranian post-revolu­hear a draft case, but lower loyal power centers
Guards and ''peoples tionary is a sha­

court decisions since 1974 have dowy organization whose full
committees" rules the country.

tended to open new avenues for membership is still not known,
He brought home from 18 years women in the military. in exile not only a fervent •even though it has officially Phyllis Schafly, a leading op­functioned for months as the
intention to return his nation to ponent of the Equal Rights the ways of Islam, but also his major decision-making body. 
Amendment, _said "There's no Members include Islamic re­
version of a peoples' democracy 

way Congress will register such as Sadegh
to replace the monarchy of the volutionaries women.'' shah.After nearly a year which Ghotbzadeh who as foreign 
She plans to focus on Congress minister infuriated Americans
saw his country wallowin~ in 

in her battle against resigration the drama of venge~.nce tnals, with his stridendy 'unc• •mprom­for women, although she does political maneuver and econo­ising stand over the hostages. not rule out court action ifshe is Bani-Sadr already has his
mic disaster, Khomeini allowed won unsuccessful. the government structure to first battle with the Revolutio­''The doctrine of military ne­emerge. nary ·Council by winning its cessity clearly requires the ex­chairmanship and the authority
Abolhassan Bani-Sadr, 46, a 

clusion ofwomen from the draft 
radical economist whose years ro form a government before 

and combat," said Mrs. Schlaf­parliamentary elections next
1of personal loyalty to Khomeini 

ly, a lawyer. month.
paid off in the recent presiden­

r 
~ 
The Observer Tuesday,February 12, 1980-page 5 
AtND andSMC 

Recent fires spark safety question 
by Cece Balzles department. The student may to catch on fire," Bland ex­dial 6200 to reach the Notre plained.The recent fires at Saint Dame station or 9-911 to reach 
The station is also involved in
Mary's have raised questions the South Bend station. The fire prevention programs. Al­over the fire safety procedures fastest and safest way to alert though the station is actuallyof both SMC and Notre Dame. both fire departments is to use affiliated only with NotreChief inspector Jack R. Bland, the pull station which sounds an Dame, these programs are alsothe director of fire safety at alarm in the building, alerting open to Saint Mary's if enoughNotre Dame, wants to impress the occupants and the fire interest is shown, Bland said.
upon students the need for the stations at the same rime, he These programs include movies observance of fire regulations explained. 
and demonstrations on fireand the participation in fire The Notre Dame station is also safety.
drills. involved in fire code enforce­·'Students should be aware of ment and inspection. The build­Bland concluded that ''the 
where the nearest fire alarm ings are inspected at least three awareness of the individual of pull-station is located. If at times a year, the residence the other individuals involved is anytime you feel endangered by halls more frequently, Bland a great step in fire safety. What even the smallest amount of said. During these inspections, you do in your room and your heat, smoke, or flames pull the only minor violations are usual­neighbors do in their rooms fire alarm," Bland said. Stu­ly found, he added. He also said affects everyone. Students 
dents should not take rime to that there are no particular must take this responsibility dress or collect possessions, as buildings at Notre Dame that seriously. There is no such rime is critical in a fire, he are exceptionally hazardous. thing as a fire-proof building. added. The longer the students Saint Mary's is not inspected by You shouldn't take the attitude wander around the more likely the Notre Dame station. that it can't happen to you or they are to be injured, Bland ·'It is the contents of a room that someone is just kidding. commented. that make it flammable, not the Leave at once.'' He also added 
In recent years there have room, itself. The more a room that students should be aware been very few false alarms at contains and the more appli­of the fire rules and take them Saint Mary's, and the number ances used, the more likely it is seriously. is beginning to level off at Notre Dame, Bland said. For this reason when an alarm sounds it 
... Women profs
is necessary to respond imme­diately as it is likely to be a fire. Bland also added that students [continued from page 1) should know all of the exits in alone--not the number of people behind a particular lawsuit. their hall, not just the ones they Howc·ver, Cox speculated that the University might benefit frequently use. financially if the suits were not class action. "Ifyou lose a class 
"The most important step a actl<ln suit, you've got to pay every member who has sued," Cox 
student should take when fire explained. breaks out in a room is to leave If the s,.,x descrimination charge is brought into court via and shut the door. This pre­individual awsuits, the University would not necessarily have to vents the fire from spreading award damages ro all the plaintiffs ifit should IPse a suit. The class into the hall and adjoining acllc>n status then has a blanketing "all-or-none" effect. rooms,·· Bland added. Nu court date has been set for the trial, but the County Clerk's 
He explained that most people spokesperson said that a tentative notation on the case file called have never been in a fire and, t~>r the proceedings to begin no earlier than July. Judge Sharp will tllt-refore, do not realize how -;et a definite date within the next few weeks. serious it is. "A fire is the worst possible environment. The heat is stifling and the smoke, blinding and chocking. Since 
... Gas

most students have never ex­perienced this they are unpre­occured during routine mainte­
[, mti11ued}ium page 1)

pared for it," he added. nance of three pumps that add With the great number of fires th;u houses the severly damag­water to rhe primary coolingin universities students now ed reactor, was evacuated system. They said that when 
tend to take fire more seriously, during what plant officials call one pump was turned on, a leak Bland commented. He added ed the "local emergency." developed in a pres<>ure switch that this was shown in the Eleven workers, wearing pro­feeding a three-eighths-inchdecline in the number of false tective clothing and breathing line. 
alarms at Notre Dame. gear, were instde at the time. .In Washington, NRC spokes­
When the Notre Dame fire "We d,Jn't have any indication man Frank Ingram said his department receives a call from at all that any of these workers agency's technical support either Saint Mary's or Notre received any radiation,'' said team ar the plant was investiga­Dame one truck is dispatched, Polon, spokesman for Metropo­ting. Bland explained. The city of litan Edison Co., operator of the 
SouthBend sends two engines, plant that was shut down a truck, a squad, and a fire following an accident last chief, he added. March. 
I I I 



Iran

The Notre Dame fire depart­··we isolated the auxiliary ment is staffed by three bothers building, evacuated it, so we of the Holy Cross, Bro. Borro­<.:ould locate the leak and take 
[continued from page 1] 
meo Malley, the fire chief; Bro. care of it," he added. Bratus Schlenker, the deputy A two-man crew wearing pro­mise solution involving both fire .chief; and Bro. Frank tective gear re-entered the ' some form of tribunal to mvesti­Gorch, the fire inspector. It is building to assess the situation. gate U.S. actions in Iran and also staffed by four students Another crew stood by. U.N. Secretary-General Kurt from Notre Dame, according to . Polon estimated the amount of Waldheim's proposal for an Bland. These student firefigh­the leak at 1,000 gallons. international commission to in­ters are trained through ex­In Washington, Victor Stello, vestigate the shah's r IIe.
1

perience after being taught to Jr. the NRC's director of in­Meanwhile, a U.N. spokes­operate the truck and pump, he spection and enforcement, gave man said Waldheim's negotia­added. There is also an ex­an estimate of 600 gallons. tions for release of the hostages perienced officer with them at Officials said water had leaked "are at a very sensitive stage." all times he said. at a ·maximum rate of nine Spokesman Rudolf Stajduhar 
Lasy year there were 1) 5 calls gallons per minute between said Waldheim 'is very closely to the station, including auto­12:)) p.m. and 2:40 p.m. A following all statements by mobile and trashcan fires, sump pump hauled the spilled President Bani-Sadr, including Bland said. He added that there water to a storage tank. the statement given to Le were two ways to call the fire Plant officials said the leak Monde." 

r Spring Breakout South Bend to Ft.-Lauderdale Charter at $189.00 March 29-April 5 

Hotel rooms available First Bank Travel·in Badin 

·As one of the world's leading suppliers of advanced systems and components for aero­space manufacturers, we play a vital role on craft such as the space shuttle, all U.S. com­mercial jets, current military programs, and a number of business jets. Sundstrand also is known for its products in energy systems, air comfort, power transmission, and fluid handling. 
If you're interested in a creative engineering environment where you can work with outstand­ing professionals, investigate Sundstrand. We offer competitive salaries, strong benefits, and a generous educational reimbursement program. Our headquarters are in Rockford, Illinois, a medium-sized community with varied employ­ment opportunities for spouses. 
On-campus interviewer ... Gene Roy 




e.s•TRAfll~4~~ 
4751 Harrison Avenue  ~tO#­ 
Rockford, IL 61101  ~t"J  
An Equal Opportumly Employer M/F  (,~  

l 

administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers
The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-zn-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills Sports Editor... . . . . . . ........Mack Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor.......... Diane Wilson Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly 
&x Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editona/ Editor .............. Ann Gales Photo Editor ..............Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor......... M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor ...... Mike Lewis Rusiness Manager ........Steve Odland newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor.. .................. Mark Rust Production Manager ..... John McGrath of the University of Notre Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News Editor ............•.... Mike Shieldo;; Advertising Manager .. ....M. Holsinger 

-The Observer_ 
.

and Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is Controller................. .Kevin Manion necessarily reflect the policies ot the encouraged. SMC News Editor ........ Margie Brassil Circulation Manager ... ...Greg Hedges 



··--~ -~--~ 
~---­

The Observer -SportsBoard Tuesday, February 12, 1980 -page 6 

[wntinued from page 8] 

Nowalk, Mary Bayless and Malureen King, all assumed the duty of closing out Cook. 
"We played really well to­night on defense,'' offered the only senior on Saint Mary's squad. "we stopped Cook and Freehill--that helped a lot. Cook really hurt us last year with those 33 points so we knew we had to stop her, and we did." 
The onset of second half play saw Saint Mary's pull ahead and build a lead with credit due to the team's fastbreak offense. 
I ·,,,lurs ,,, the 0 'Shag Art Gallery are bound to do a double-take 
With a litrle more than three II' II< 'II lht')' see this finely detazled paper mac he sculpture. minutes remaining, the Belles 
11 '/•,f•J hy Greg Maurer] had built a 67-59 margin and 

Molarity by Michael Molinelli 

YOU VILE: [XPOuiJDE~5 OF UNPOPULAR JHI£~1ALJ517C. WA.sT£ PT?OJ>Uc.TS ... THAT£ YW ANI> YOUR CHILDS AND 

ACROSS 
1 Like a rutted road ride 


The Daily Crossword 


6  -Alamos  
9  Tiffs  
14  Soap plant  

15 Can. prov. 
16 Fortune­telling card 
17 U-turn 19 Without help 20 Like a sad sack's face 21 Take­breath 23 Actor Jannings 
All Rights Reserved 





I-----------------, 

----------------~ 
IUESDAY I 

nort!~!!~~~J~~~~2~2~P• .
I FEBRUARY 12,1 

selection and concert ticket headqucutets I1
I 


1980 I 
I

Sl.OO Off anyalbumottape
I 7pm-3am I 
I
I I 

limit one coupon per person 
I 


( 1exolres feb. 15. 1980) 
I
·I 1 Corby's Beach Party 1 I 

1&,006Cllbu.U:ClndtClpealn stock I




I I 1



I MOLSON

I GOLDEN ALE 75<; II 
I 
IBRING YOUR SUN TAN LOTIONI 


·-----------------· 

24  State  49  Irish  
treasury  sweetheart  
26  Foreword  50 Trespass  
28  Farmers  52  Exterior  
32  High note  56  From a  
33  -jacet  point in  
34  Home of  time  
the "Jazz"  57  Met number  

35 Cooperstown 58 Thrusting 
great sword 39 Infuriated 61 Auto· ­41 Style of (inquisi­
painting lion act) 43 Fencing 64 Color 
weapon 66 Printed 44 Went first impressions 46 Martha of 68 Bright-
comedy faced 48 Coastal 69 -of Good bird Feeling 70 Consumed 
71 Underhanded 42 Operated 72 Sun 45 Brother 73 ·-bear 47 Ending 
tor 76 

DOWN 51 Treat with 1 False god antiseptic 2 Bivalve 52 Quenches 
beak 53 Mr.Heep 3 Visaged 54 -bell in a way (register) 4 Telephone 55 Kefauver 
jack 59 Beginner 5 However 60 Gem 6 Burden 62 Vendetta 7 Formerly 63 Behold 8 Expensive 65 Attempt 9 Depot: abbr. 67 Portly 
Saint Francis was forced to call 
a time out and regroup forces. 
The break in action must 
have sparked the Cougars as 
they batrled. back and eventu­
ally gained the lead. That made 
it Saint Mary's turn for a 
timeout and strategical master­
minding with just a minute 
remainmg and the home club 
down by one. 
King assumed the Tracy Jackson--save all--role for the Belles when whe returned to the court and edged the Belles ahead 69-68 on a lay-up shot from Maureen O'Brian as the clock showed a scant :20 re­mammg. 
!11 a sort of anti-climatic 

10  Custer, to  
Indians  
11  Fragrance  

12 Gin drink 13 Stone 
marker 18 Confronting 22 "Just 
another-" 25 Actor Erwin 27 Culbertson 28 Donahue 29 Milan money 30 Knock 31 A Lewis 36 Like some 
sandwiches 37 Ice mass 38 Part 
of n.b. 40 Very ugly 
... Belles 
finish, sophomore Mary Zuehl­
ke added the final two for Saint 
Mary's as she iced two free 
throws after being fouled at the 
buzzer. Last night's game 
marked the return of Zuehlke to 
the Belle line-up as the forward 
guard missed two games due to 
back injuries. 
Saint Mary's hosts Nazareth College tonight in the Angela Athletic Facility. Tip-off time is set for 7 p.m. 
Olympics 
Opening Ceremonies -Wednesday, Feb. 13. 1980: 2:30p.m. E.S.T. 
Weather -Light snow fell in Lake Placid yesterday and tempe1 dtures ranged from zero at night to 20 at midday. Notes-The U.S. team hopes of its highest number of medals ir Winter Games' history. The top was 12 when the Olympics were held 48 years ago in Lake Placid. They won 10 at lnnsbruck in 1976. including three gold. 


Doonesbury

by Garry Trudeau 
/11..'30, lHt:R£5 ABIG 8A51r£7­8AL.L. G~ IUITH COWM81A lt::W16HT. 8VCF:f80/?Y, !JUT &~Y­8017t, GOE'3 70 me CW/MBIA 
GAM&. IT'S CON~/JCii!ElJ P/?13TTY /J& RIGI/151/R. I 
50, RCALL't fT'S NO RtFLECTION ON 'frJ(JR CAMPAIGN. IT'S JliST A 5C.H&lJIJ/..!Nf3 CONRJa me §TlJ!J£1{15 /1/.1.. EJa(jHT 7/C/t$75 70 7Hl3 6/IM& MONTHS AGO, SO lA/HAT aJ(JUJ '­



..--------~---­
The Observer -Sports Tuesday, February 12, 1980 -page 7 

AP 
.. . Playoffs 



DePaul stays atop AP 
[continuedfrom page 8]
Top Twenty 
for 38 percent. "We used Paxson as a nucleus The 12th-ranked Irish, now (AP) -Unbeaten DePaul was Oregon State, which nipped 
The Top Twenty teams in the 
in the second half, rotating the 17-4, hit the road for three the unanimous choice for the Arizona State in overtime last 
Associated Press college bas-
other guys out for short rests," games while the Ice Capades cop spot in the Associated Press week was fourth with 959 
letball poll, with first-place 
said Irish coash Digger Phelps, run at the ACC. Phelps and college basketball poll for the points, foltuwed by Kentucky, 
votes in parentheses, records 
whose club had lost to the Dons Company next meet Fordham 
fourth cons~cutive week yes-898, and Louisiana Stare, 874. 
and total points. Points based 
67-59, a month ago. 
on Thursday evening at Madi­

rerday as the top six reams Sr. John's moved up one spot 
on 20-19-18-17-16-15-14-13­
"We were also taking a lot son Square Garden. remained the same and pre-this week and took over the No. 
12-11-10-9-8·7-6-5-4-3-2-1: 
better shots our there than we season favorite Indiana fell out 7 position from Maryland with 
had been. We fell flat for a few 
Notre Dame-hB

of the elite 20 for the first time 774 points. The Terps were next minutes in the second half, but 
San Francisco--56

this season. -with 749 points while Ohio State l. DePaul ()S) _ we toughened up again in the
20 0 1•160 San Francisco (66) Wiliams 6 0-3 12,
The Blue Demons were tabbed and Clemson rounded out the 2_Syracuse last six minutes. We just came
21 _1 1,047 
Hegwood 6 0-0 12. Bryant 5 0-110, Dailey

No. I on all 5o first-place ballots Top 10· 3. Louisville 21-2 1,012 ready to play tonight." 
4 2-7 10, Reid 4 1-2 9, Harris 3 3-3 9,

and received a perfect score of The Buckeyes, ranked 13th 4_Oregon State _ Irish forward Kelly Tripucka
222 959 
McCoy 0 0-0 0, Cornelious 0 0-0 0,

1,160 points in the voting by a last week, collected 628 points 5_Kentucky came to play. He had 20 points,
21 _4 1898 
Deloatch 1 0-0 2, Bower<> 1 0-0 2. Totals

na[l· 011w1·de panel of SJJorts wri-following triumphs over Michi­· · St 1u ;. and matched Jackson's total of
6 1 4 874
-d · · S Cl · "0 Uistan~ · o-~-· h b d G d R' h 30 6-16 66. 

ters and broadcasters. In irs gan anh. MhI_chtgand frate.N em16­7. Sr. John s, N.Y. 21-2 774 eBtg t . re ohudn s1. ~ar hl~l 
Notre Dame (78) Jackson 9 5-7 23,

only game last week, DePaul son, w tc JUmpe rom o. 
8. Maryland 17-4 749 ranmng a 1 pomts, w l e 
Tripuka 9 2-4 20, Woolridge 3 4-6 10,

edged Dayton 65-63. to the Top 10 after upsetting _Ohio Stare _ center Orlando Woolridge had
9 16 5 628 
Branning 4 3-4 11. Hanzlik 3 2-2 8,
Maryland last week, got 462 10. Clemson _ 10 points and nine rebounds.

175 462 
Mitchell1 0-0 2, Paxson 1 2-2 4. Wilcox u

Syracuse, Louisville, Oregon pvints in edging North Carolina 11. N. Carolina _ Forwards Guy Williams and
165 451 
0-0 0. Varner 0 0-0 0, Andree 0 0-0 0,

State, Kentucky, and Louisiana for the No. 10 spot. 
_ Notre Dame _ John Hegwood paced a balanc­
12 16 4 1435 
Salinas 0 0-0 0, Kealy 0 0-0 0, HaNkins 0

S_tate filled the nt·xt five posi-North Carolina headed the h ed San Francisco scoring attack
13. Brig am Young 18-4 1409 
0-0 0 Kelly 0 0-0 0. Tmals 30 18-25 78.

ttons, respectively. Second 10 for rhe third consecu-_Missouri with 12 points each.
14 1 ~_4 :403 
Halftime score--Notre Dame 47, San

The Orangemen collected rive week. Notre Dame, No. 9 _Purdue _ ' The Irish ourrebounded the
15 156 332 
Francisco 33.

1,047 points in outdistancing last week bur upset by North _Duke _ Dons, 36-32, and outshot the
16 176 298
Louisville for the No. 2 spot. Carolina State, was 12th follow-17 . Weber Sr. visitors from the foul line. Fouled out--None.
21 _2 275 
Total Fouls--San Francisco 23, Notre

The Cardinals, who posted ed by Brigham Young, Missou-Arizona Sr. _ While the Irish hit 18 of 25
18 _ 17 5 1,)2 
vtctones over Cincmatt and ri, Purdue, Duke, Weber State, l'J. Kansas Sr. _ free-throw attempts, for 72
184 126 
Bowers.

Providence last week, garnered Virginia, Arizona State and _Iowa _ percent, San Francisco could
20 165 100 
Attendance--11 ,345.

1.012 points. Indiana. only muster 6 of 16 accuracy, 

-~--------~-------....-­



Snorts 

Irish tratnple Dons, begin drive to playoffs 
.by Paul Mu/laney ignite a throng of II,345 at the 
As.\'/~l·tant Sports Editor ACC. And, before the first half 
was over, Phelp's squad found 
Father Hcsburgh just might itself up by 20, 47-27, before nTeive a formal tnvitation from raking .a 47-33 margin into the Nor re Dame basketball coach rntermtsswn. Digger Phelps to jPin the Irish ·'We came out and just didn't "1 rhe bench for dl(' rest of the play well in the first half," -.,,·as1>n. offered second-vear San Fran­
\J1llrt' Darre's Pre~idenr serv­cisco coach D~n Belluomini, l'•l a" rt·am chaplain for the first whose Dons suffered their first t1111t' ever last night, and rhe setback in eight contests. "We lri!-.h renJrdt·d a 7866 vicwry gave 'em too many easy shots 1r<er ,.,,.,iring San Francisco ;n and rebounds.'· o·lt' of their most impressi·h· The} 1lso watched Notre Dame ,howtngs ro dare. connu: t on 56 percent of its 
'lr w.ts really nice to have first-half shooting -including huher Heshurgh on the bench seven-for-seven accuracy from with us," smiled Notre Dame Jackson. forward Tracy] ackson. who led · ·'What can you do when he the lwsts with a career-hif:h of (Jackson) has one of his best 
z:l points. "He even smd mass performances against you?" bdore the game for us. It made asked Belluomini. "Maybe cut the game kinda special." his arm off-but that's about it. What also made the game No, he's just a great player." 
spenal for the Irish was an The Irish maintained their 
a. tempt to regroup f()llowing intensity for most of the final rwo losses in thetr last five stanza. However, a short surge contests. by the Dons midway through 

·we had a meeting on Sun­the half cut Notre Dame's lead day," said Jackson. "The play­to six, 65-59. ers and the coaches discussed ·'I' rn proud of my ream -they rhe things we were doing didn't quit," insisted Belluo­by} 1m C::mith wrong, and we brought every­mini. "It's tough to come from ~~ ·:; . 'ter
·lr 

thing out on the table. We behind when you're on the a•.lm11red our f<lults, because we road. We had a decent come­The.'rish two-mile relay ream wanted to keep the team's back. It was the beginning of rebt unded from la.sc v..eekend's unrty. rhe game that killed us." pet:orm::mce by capturing first 
'We looked at this game as With freshman guard John pl:-.ce if' Saturday's Knight's of 
bnd of a turning potnt. We Paxson quarterbacking the Irish Columt ts meet in Cleveland, 
wamed it bad. This was going in the game's waning minutes, Ohio. '1 his came the day after to be the beginning of our drive Notre Dame was able to find the f\.otre Dame team put on a to the playoffs." enough open holes in Frisco's competitive performance at the 
The Irish began their drive full-court press to build the lead Big State Meet in West La­early. Leading by two, 10-8, back up to 14 points. fayette, Indiana. The team early in the game, Notre Dame finished in fourth position be-
rattled off 12 straight points to [..:ontinued on page 7] 


Belles UJin 71-68, snap losing streak 
by Beth Huffman eight in the losing column. St. shooting in the first half.'' Women's Sports Editor Francis boasts an 8-6 season First half shooting was in­mark after the narrow loss. deed impressive, Saint Mary's 
Saint Mary's thwarted a "We didn't box out--Saint hit a .530 clip fr0m the field come· from -behind effort by St. Mary's got too many offensive while Saint Fra .c• s offered a Francis College in the final rebounds (16)," offered Tom .487 percentage. Cindy Free­seconds to top the Cougars Schienbein, mentor for the hill, the Cougars middleman, 71-68. Last night's win snapped Cougars. "We played about the put on quite a show of her a three game losing streak for best as we could and so did own--pumping in 18 of her the Belles and elevated their Saint Mary's. I was especially game's 19 points in the first win total to 10 as opposed to impressed with both teams' half--to pace the visiting team. 
Despite the impressive scor­ing of Freehill the Belle trio of Anne Armstrong, Nancy No­
Recordat 4-12 
walk, and Mary Pat Sitlington led its ream to a 44-42 half-time edge. Armstrong .broke a 42-42



Wrestlers drop pair 

deadlock with just seconds re­maining as the 5-5 freshman hy Btl/ Marquard triangular meet, the Irish post­tossed 111 a 20-foot jumper from 
.'•)ports Writer ed only two decisions against a the baseline, a typical perim­stronger Winona State squad. 
eter shot for the Ohio native. !'Ire Notre Darnt' wrestling Senior c:iptain DiSab'ito ex­Armstrong ended the game t('am contmued in irs disap­t('nded hi.; winning streak to 22 with 17 points while Nowalk p.linting ways Saturday, drop­strai~~ht \ :rh a 3-2 win over and Sitlin~ton connected on 10 
Tuesday, February 12, 1980-page 8 


hind the competition from In­Notre Dame did well in the diana, Purdue and Indiana 1000 yard run as they placed State. three runners among the top 
Chuck Aragon, Pete Burger, five. Miranda finished second Tim Macauley and Jay Miranda with a 2:13.12 time, followed brought the relay team home in closely by Burger at 2:13.50. a time of 7:36, their best this Jim Slattery fimshed in the fifth year, and only three seconds off position with a 2: 15.82 time. 
the NCAA qualifying time. It Aragon and Macauley both 
seems an almost certainty that placed high in the half mile run 
the team will qualify for post as Aragon grabbed second 
season competition once again place with a 1:53.25 finish and 
this year. The Knights of Macauley ended in fourth posi­
Columbus meet is one of the tion. 
most competitive indoor meets Steve Dziabis and Rick Rogers 
in the country. The Irish have finished third and fourth 1es­
taken first place in the two-mile pecrively in the 600 yard run. 
relay event for two of the last Dziabis posted a 1: 12.7n time 
three ~,asons. while Rogers closed at 1:13.6':.1. 
At West r.afayette, the team Other Irish performers to 
impressed (~oach Joe Piane, place within the top five in their 
"We performed well, I was respective competition included 
pleased. I saw a lot of really Perry Stow in the pole vault and 
good performances by our Bill Rihera in the 300 yard dash. 
~uys. Tf we keep up the Desp....: wming off an injury, mtensity we had this weekend, Stow managed a 14 foot 6 inch I see no reason why we should vault, while Ribera was clocked not keep on improving." at :32.39. One of the finest performances Ahmad Kazimi finished in was turned in by Jacques Eady. fifth place in the triple jump 
He finished third in the 440 competition, with a leap of 47 yard dash, and won his heat in a feet 3 and 3/4 inches. Tony time of :50.30. Dwight Wil­Hatherly placed fifth in the mile 
liams of Indiana State won the run with a 4:13.47 time. competition at :49.81. Rounding out the scoring was '')acques ran extremely well the one-mile relay team who 
in the quarter mile. He finished finished third with a 3:20.26 third overall, but I feel he could combined time. have won if he had been The next competition for the 
running in the same heat as the Irish comes this weekend when two runners that finished ahead the team travels to Ann Arbor, of him," stated a pleased Piane Michi?an for the Central Col­afterwards. legiate Conference meet. 
Sports Briefs.______


prng dual meets to Marquette Dave Rucmski. That streak is and 15 pomts respectively. 2)-17 and Winona State 31-9. just one shy of Phil Gustafson's Jerry Dallessio, second-year 'lr is frustrating at this point all-rime standard of23 wins in a coach of the Belles, switched 
Bench sparks Irish comeback 

ir 1 r he season," conceeded Irish row set in 1970-71. It is also from his first half strategy of a The Irish Women's Basketball team defeated Goshen on
h::ad coach Ray Sepeta. '·Bur I three short of Mike Fanning's box-and-ore defense to a denial Saturday by a score of 52-49. Notre Dame came back from ab::lieve in this team and I know 2) consecutive matches without man-to-man in the second to 29-20 deficit at halftime. 35 of the Irish points came fromthat they are capable :>f much a loss in 1971-72. DiSabato is close out the hot hand of their bench as Shari Matvey poured in 19; in addidtion,more. ~han they have done this nuw 23-1 on the year heading Freehill. Initially the Saint Missy Conboy contributed 12. The women now stand at 13-5.
into this weekend's Wheaton

y•:ar. Mary's club concentrated on They travel to Huntington for a game tonight.
l'he Irish managed three wins Invitational tourney. Deb Cook, who put 33 points in 
The remaining Irish scorer

a11d a tie against Marquette, the bucket when the two squads although two of those wins were was sopho_more John Iglar? w~o met last year. Cook tallied 16 
Winter Olympic coverage starts 

fdrfeits to Mark Fish·~r (118) pinned Wmona s Ron Smnh tn points for the Cougars against a·1d Dave DiSaba10 (134). The 2·55. The win improved Iglar's the Belles, but her looming 
NEW YORK (AP) -ABC will kick off its 51 hours of season record to 11-12-1. 
coverage of the 1~80 Winte~ Olympics tonight from 9:30p.m. I wo'.., 10-4 decisi·m over Jim ·'Our reLOrd at this point strong defensive showing on 
"1ly march win was Chris presence was buffeted by a 
EST to 11 p.m. wtth a prevtew of the Lake Placid Games and Sttzbcrger at 142 pounds. Se­(4-12) is not a true indication of the part of Saint Mary's. 
ice hockey highlights. ) im McKay, who will serve as host ruor captain Mike Wilda fought our talent," l:'xplainsl_ Serer~. The Belles' captain, Nancy 
throughout the XIII Winter Olympics and also will handle to a 4-4 tie with Dan O'Neil at "The Wheatun lnvnauona thts Nowalk, pointed to her team's 
figure skating commentary, and the rest of the network's I )0 pounds to close out the Irish weekend 5ives us another defense as a key to the win. 
crew of ~00 in Lake Pla~id will get a jum~ on t~e _openin~ sconng. chance to redeem ourselves and 
ceremomes by showcasmg the favontes 111 vanous disci­
[continued on page 6] 
plines.
In the second half of the show what we really do have." 

.. 




