Sport Shorts -Page 11
' ' ' 

VOL. XIV, NO. 115 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, 1980 
Khomeini urges 
resistance 
by the Associated Press 

Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini urged Iranians yesterday to rejoice in their final break with the ''world-devouring plunder'' America, and the Tehran gov­ernment began mobilizing the people for a ''holy war'' of belt-ti~htening and possible rationmg to grapple with econ­omic woes. 
President Abolhassan Bani­Sadr declared there was "no reason to worry" about the U.S. economic embargo against Iran, but added that Iranians would need an extra effort to resist thc-pressure. 
In a m~.:::.sage to the nation, 
Khomeini said President 
Carter's anti-Iran ac-tions would 
have no effect on the status of 
the 50 U.S. Embassy hostages, 
in their 157th day of captivity in 
the hands of young Moslem 
radicals. 
He said a decision on their 
fate still must await convening 
of the new Iranian Parliament, 
which may be months away. 
When Carter announced the 
break in U.S.-Iranian diplo­
matic relations and the virtual 
trade ban Monday, he said 
"other actions" might be taken 
if the hostages were not releas­
ed "promptly." 
U.S. officials were not ruling out a naval blockade of Iranian ports or other military action. 
The Carter administration also sent strong signals to U.S. allies yesterday that it expects some help in the economic offensive, but there were no signs ofimmediate cooperation. 
Bani-Sadr said in a Tehran radio interview the captive Americans were being treated 
[continued on page 6) 
by]ohn McGrath News Editor 
Bro. Leo V. Ryan, Dean of 
the College of Business 
Administration, will resign 
his post to accept a similar 
position at the University of 
DePaul's College of Com­
merce in Chicago, it was 
announced yesterday. 
He will assume his new 
position duties September 1. 
Ryan has been Dean of 
Notre Dame's Business Col­
lege since 1975. He earned 
his M.B.A. in Marketing in 
1954 at DePaul, and in 1976, 
was honored by that Univers­
ity as a distinguished 
alumnus. 
Prof. Timothy O'Meara, University provost, praised Ryan's work at Notre Dame, commenting, "We are ..,!1 aware of the things he has 'done for the business 
school." 




ND plans an increase in total tuition bill 
by Mary Fran Callahan Senior StaffReporter 
In an interview given over spring break Richard Conklin, director of Information Services, released a tentative figure regarding the pending tuition increase which would bring next year's total bill to $6490, up from this year's $5630. 
Conklin explained that the figure was arrived at by an estimate which the University must annually submit to the College Scholarship Service. The tentative figure results from a prospective 14 percent increase in tuition and a 17 percent increase in room and board. 
Though the increases are not definite until the Board of Trustees approves it (they meet May 2), Conklin explained that in 
d:e past the Board has approved increases which usually fall within $100 of the original estimate. 
Conklin attributed the increase to the inflationary economy coupled with what he called ''a generous increase in University. employees' salaries." "The University has seen it has been underpaying its employees when compared to local rates,'' Conklin said. 
Though Tom Bull, Director of Personnel, declined to use the word underpaid, he yesterday acknowledged, ''Notre Dame was not strong in comparison with South Bend business." 
When questioned if the University is in danger of losing its clerical and service employees, he replied, "We have had more turnover than we've liked." He further explained that the University must remain competitive "wage-wise" in order to recruit employees. 
Bull, however, explained that the University has been economizing all year in an effort to remove financial burden from students' shoulders. "We cut maid service from five days a week down to two," he said. 
Though the Campaign for Notre Dame has generated $160 · million thus far, Conklin cited the rising inflation rate as a "losing battle." He said the University continually attempts to increase its endowment fund since interest can be gained from_ 
[continued on page 3) 

Carter and Sadat discuss Palestinians 
-WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi, Palestinian Arabs. White House press secretary dent Carter, shifting gears from There was no word of any J ody Powell. 
the Iranian stalemate, held breakthrough after rv.o sessions ''The President is doing more talks yesterday with Egyptian at the White House "We're listenir.g than he is talking," President Anwar Sadat auned dealing with a review, a search Powell said. at pumping new life into slow­for approaches to issues that Carter and Sadat met alone 
moving negotiations over self­remam unresolved -not a for 7r minutes during their first rule for more than 1 million negoti:lting session,'' .said session. They then went to the 

Dean Ryan announces resignation 

Bro. Leo V. Ryan 
O'Meara went on to list 
five areas in which Ryan had 
made considerable strides 
during his tenure at Notre 
Dame. 
"First of all, Dean Ryan 
gll¥e the College (Business 
Administration) a sense of, 
identity,'' O'Meara said. He ·also established a network of . connections with the busi­ness CQmmunity which has assisted us in finding fund­
-
ing and which has provided professional connections for faculty and students.'' 
"During his time here, Dean Ryan also encouraged the scholastic development of faculty members, insisted on a Christian dimension in the College's relationship with the business world, ana helped to reduce the teach­ing load by hiring some 
excellent  new  faculty,''  
O'Meara. said.  
Prof.  Yusaku  Furuhashi,'  

an associate dean at the Business College, also had praise for Ryan's work at Notre Dame. 
Furuhashi noted that he was particularly impressed with Ryan's workin develop­ing the new undergraduate 
· curriculumn for the Business 
School. He noted that the 
new plan had been two years 
[continued on page 4] 
Cabinet Room where they were joined by their advisers for an additional 20 · inutes. In the afternoon, the "'VO leaders and tllc~r advisers met again for a 
-second session lasting an hour and 25 minutes. A third round of talks was schedulc-d this morning. , Powell left open the possibil­ity that further summit talks will be held after lsraeli Prime Minister Men:,chem Begin comes here to see Carter next week. Diplomatic sources were skeptical, meanwhile, that agreement on an autonomy plan for the Palestinians could be wrapped up during the Sadat and Begin visits. All key issues, includin~ how much authority the Palestmians are to have, rr.main unresolved with the May 26 target date for an agreement only five weeks away. Carter's hope is that he can work out guidelint ~ for Egypt­ian and Israeli negotiatmg teams in his separate talks with Sadat and Bc:gm. Those teams, headed by Egyptian Prime Min­ister Mustapha Khalil and Israeli Interior Minister Joseph 
Burg, may meet here toward the end of the month. 
Gu.uantees for Israel's secur­ity were the likely focus of the sessions. At the same rime, Sadat was expected to push for creation ofa Palestinian legisla­tive council and a rollback of Israeli forces on the West Bank of the Jordan River and in Gaza. 
As a gesture to Israel, which is concerned that such moves could lead to establishment of a Palestinian stare that threatens its existence, Egyptian sources indicated Sadat would sug~est demilitarization of the ~erntor­ies for five years and a neutral peace-keeping unit or mixed Egyptian-Israeli patrol. 
Whatever is hammered out by Carter and Sadar in their two-day talks will be submitted to Begm when he calls. 
Then it would be up to the negotiating teams headed by Khalil and Burg to try to translate the principles into an autonomy settlement by the deadline. 
If key issues remain unre­solved, U.S. and Egyptian offic­ials said Carter rmght hold a three-way summit meeting with Sadat and Begin along the lines of the Camp David sessions of September 1978. Those talks produced the framework for a peace treaty between Egypt 
and  Israel  and  the  current  
negotiations  over  Palestinian  
autonomy.  

'.( 













News in brief 
Wednesday , April 9, 1980 -page 2 
Inflation sparks lo"W'"er credit sales 
Carter seeks actions on 
(AP) -Rising credit costs and 
Linden Wheeler, vice presi-people," Scroggin said. "They
fear of the future are causing 
dent for credit of Sears, Roe-wanted to pay what they could 
some Americans to cut back buck and Co., said it was before it hits." Like other
claims made against Iran 
their spending or to use cash 
premature to predict what creditors, Scro~gin is tighten­instead of plastic for payment. would happen as a result of ing up. Startmg May 1, for 
Earl Scroggin, president of government moves to try to example, minimum monthlyTHi:: HAGUE, Netherlands (AP) -The United States is 
Lou Hoffman's Inc., a family­
slow spending. He said credit rayments will go from $10 tohoping the Wodd Court will issue~ ruling agains~ Ir~n that 
owned clothin~ store in Little 
sales accounted for 57 percent $20.
could -in theory -put ~he 50 Amencan hostages m !me for 
Rock, Ark., satd, for t"xamrle, 
of Sears' business last year -On a nationwide basis, out­-;orne cash. The coun is debating a U.S. claim that the 
that monthly payment recetpts 
up slightly from 1978 -and standing consumer installmentIranian government must pay damages for the Iranian 
on charge accounts jumped 25 
predicted they would account debt rose $2.91 billion inmilitants' seizur~ of the American Embassy in Tehran an d percent in March. 
for about the same percentage February -the month before fi>r the holding of hostages there since Nov. 4. The 
David Gold, general merchan­
this year, although "there Carter's credit controls. In­International panel of 15 judges is expected to rule on the 
dise manager for Mages Sport­
might be a slight moderation stallment borrowing rose at an li.S. dairn in a few weeks. , In Washington on Monday, 
ing Goods in Chicago said toward the end of the year.'' annual rate of 11 percent in l'resiJent Carter said he would ask Congress to let 
two-thirds of his sales usually It is almost' four weeks since February-more than twice the :\ nwri~.:ans settle claims against Iran by drawing on $8 
are made on credit. In recent President Carter announced his rate of increase in January, but btllion in Iranian assets frozen in the United States. 
weeks, he said, the proportion latest 'anti-inflation program below the l3 percent rate of has dropped by 10 percent to that included new controls on growth in the fourth quarter of 15 percent. credit. Even before Carter's 1979. 
''Customers are controlling announcement, lenders, faced TheJordan Marsh spokesman 
U.S. buys additionalgrain 
their buying,'' said a spokes­with rising interests rates that said sales in general and credit 
man for Boston's Jordan 
forced them to pay more for sales in particular have dippedMarsh store, who asked" not to money, were making it harder since Christmas. He said be identiti.ed by name. and more expensive for buyers credit usually accounts for 64 
An Associated Press spot
to defray cost ofembargo 
to use credit. percent of the store's business,
check showed the trend is 
"I think all the talk of interest but is down by a little over a 
clearer at local stores. Major 
rates going up scared a lot of percentage pomt. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The U.S. Agr~c.ulture Depart~~nt 
national chains say it is hard to -.;aid yesterday it has bought an additional 43.9 mtlhon 
tell exactly what is happending hushels of wheat, the second and largest purchase so f'.lr to 
with consumer spendmg. The 1 BAGGAGETRUCK 1 ht"lp boost farmers' prices by. absorbing g~ain that had ~e.en 
,--------------------------,
situation also varies from city 
I CONCESSION APPLICATIONS I
111tended for the Soviet Umon. No pnces or quanttttes 
to city and from type of store to hought in various states were announced. Officials said 
type of store. 

I . I
those Jeraiis would be available later. Bergland says the 
I Now available at STUDENT UNION and 1 
purchases will continue until about 4 million metric tons ­
ISTUDENT ACTIVITIESOFFICE. I
146.8 million bushels-are removed from the market to ease 
Ryan wins

•rnpacr of the partial embargo against the Soviet Union announced Jan. 4 by President Carter. 
I DEADLINEforapplyingis APRIL 15, 1980. I 
'Invaders' I I I I 
I Preference will be given in the following order: I 
I · I

Weather 

tournament I Geographical Oub, I 
Dreary and cold with occas~onal_.-ain throl:lgh tomorr~w. 
The Notre Dame Space I S d 0 . . I
1 tu ent rgantzattons,etc., 1
Highs in the 40s. Low tomght tn the m1d 30s. Hrgh 
Invaders tournament was we,.. tl>morrow around 40. 
by Jack Ryan of Alumni Hall,
I 

I lnd" "d al I
who earned a total of 11,850 
points. Damian Marshall of L-----------..l~-U-~----------J 
Cavanaugh finished second r.========================::::;, .'.'ith 8,640. Other finalists in the tourney 
CLUBS, ORGANIZATIONS, 
,, ere: Bernie Mago and Ernie·





CamP-~us~_ 
Vogel. both of H1ward Hall; 

Damien Dieuliis, Alumni; and 

CLASSES and HALLS 
Dana Stalcup, Cavanaugh. The tournament was spon­
I: 15 p.m. LECTURE ''services available to older adults,'' 
sored by Cannady Music Com­
351 MADELEVA SMC. 


FOOTBALL 
pany. 2 p.m. MEETING ~ailing club 204 O'SHAG. 


CONCESSION STAND
The Observer.

3:25p.m. SEMINAR "carbon monoxide oxida~ior:t ~nan isothermal, integral reactor: steady-state multtphctty & 
Night Editor: Danny Tarullo transient response to concentration pulses," dr. se. h. oh 
Applications for 1980season now availible
Asst. Night Editor: Mike 
356 FITZPATRICK. 
J ans, Mary Leavitt 
Copy Editor: Lynne Daley 

in STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE. 
3:30p.m. SEMINAR "on the foggy toad to t~rbult;nce i?, 
Layout Staff Missingboundary layers which nd research rna,' help to tllummate, 
News Editor: Tom Jackman 

DEADLINE for filing application is APRIL . 
prof. mark morkovin 356 FITZPATRICK. 
Editorial Layout: Mike 
Onufrak 
15, 1980. 

3:30 p.m. LECTURE ''civil rights & housing in the 
Sports Layout: John Smith 1980's" john shenefield, assoc. atty. general LAW 
Typists: Carol Cornwall, SCHOOL LOUNGE. 
Paula Shea, Mike Galvin, 

4:20p.m COllOQUIUM "quantum electrodynamics of str.. ngly bound electrons," prof. peter mohr 118 NIH'WLAND. 
·1:30 p.m ~EMINAR ''reactions in which metal-metal multiple bonds break," prof. richard walton 123 NIEUW­L.AND. 
6:30p.m. MEETING alpha phi omega service fraternity LAFORTIJNE LITTLE THEATRE. 
7 p.m. LECTURE "health care related to women," dr. norman forrest, gynecologist, STAPELTON LOUNGE SMC. 
7:30p.m. MEETING faculty senate 202 CCE. 
7: ~0 p.m. LECTURE "the credibility of justice: women in the church," patricia hughes CARROll HALL SMC. 
Hp.m. FILM "rules of the game," ENGR. AUD. 
8:15p.m. RECITAL karen buranskas LIB. AUD. 
9 p.m. LECTURE "the farmworker struggle in ohio,',. baldemar velasquez, pres. of floc LAFORTUNE LITTI.1~ THEATRE. 
Kathy Murray EMT: Kim Convey 0 roofreader: Paul Ifurley VD Day Editor: Keith 
Melaragno

i .J'MC Day Editor: Sue Fuegner Ad Design: Mike Holsinger Photographer: John Macor Guest Appearances: Ryan "Ha,PPY Birthday Leslie Mul!tgan" Ver Berkmoes, Goose & Huff, and the spirit of John Chausee, Fingers, the Chief 
Til: Obserwr JUSPS -t2lj Ia 
publislllcl Mlllday thr~~~gll Frillly a­
cept dllring aam IIIII ,...... plrildl. 
The Observer Is Pllblilllld br a. 
students If Nlltrl 0.. IMI Sllld 
Miry's C....... S.llia..-. _,Ill 
Pllrdlaed t. S21 Jill' ,_, IS• Jill' 
MIMdlrllrtm The ObserVer. ;.o. 11a 
a. Nitre Oan. 1111111u ... s.­c~~ss ':'et pilei, Nltn 011111, •• 
dillll . The Observer is a ,......, If 1111 Asslciltld Prlu. AH ••.-clllll 
....-..... .. 
-.... ~ ... 


At Saint Anthony Mcdscal Cmr~r. Re11· In a.ddmon ro a modem envuocunnu, you'll srered and Graduate Nurw1 can tnioY an tnroy dw acrnmy of a 1mall w.m wtth the lf\novarivc: cnvuonmmr rha.t encauraan 
therr profntional crowth W'C' currendy ~~~rr;c".,~ ~T~e~~~:.:m· ha\oT excdlenr full and pan runt P?-lhont ulattn ..nd a complete fnn1e be-ne~ avaalablc in mott •~•• on tht' evc:nlnl aod packaae Plca5t' send your rnume or letter 
mshrlihifts a( rnttoduc-uon ro· 
SAINT ANTHONY MEDICAL CENTER 
......J
Main at Franciscan Road Crown Point, Indiana 46307
L . . .....ual 

. 
• 
I. 


'I. 
-~ 

The Observer 

Wednesday, April 9, 1980-page 3 

Corby's faces license revocation 
by Kelli Flint not lose their liquor liceL.~e. in, there's a risk to the jobs ot 
Senior StaffReporter "The violations brought a~ainst everyone here. I don't hesitate 
us at the trial were mmor," to ask a person to leave if I'm 
Myers said. "They were not suspicious of their identifica­
The renewal of the liquor serious enough to warrant los­tion." 
license of Corby's Tavern is ing our license." The recent police raids have 
being postponed pending the Myers added that he feels affected Corby's business, ac­
outcome of an Indianapolis Corby's has not broken the law. cordinf to Myers. "There were 
hearing regarding Corby's "We card people at the door," severa nights when police were 
alleged violations in connectton he said... "I look for fakes, but coming in every twenty minutes 
with the sale of alcoholic bever­some minors have very good or so," Myers said. "People 
ages to minors, according to fakes and get in. -It's the didn't want to have to put upJtm Myers, manager of minors with the fakes that are with that disturbance.'' 
Corby's. 
breaking the law." Myers believes that the 
The local Alcoholic Beverage Myers also added that it mayor is to blame for the 
Commission (ABC) postponed would be diffioult to enforce crackdown. "I've never receiv­
the decision on the renewal policies at Corby's that would ed any complaints from neigh­
until April 16. "The State ABC be stricter than the ones they bors," Myers said. "I feel that 
hearing in Indianapolis took now have. "We already re­if they had a complaint they
place on April 2, but the results quire picture s," Myers said. would come to me ftrst instead 
of that hearing cannot be 
disclosed until the local ABC 
decides on the renewal," 
Myers said. 
Myers feels that .Corby's will 

Carter warn.s allies to cooperate 
WASHir--iGTON (AP) • The Carter administration, raising a­new the possihility of a block~ ade of the Persian Gulf, warned 
U.S. allies vesterday that their oil supplies. could be jeopardi~­ed unless the~· cooperate tn pressuring Iran to free its 50 American hosr.tges. 
The qu<:··{iOI. of new action against Iran aro<>e when White House press secretary J ody Powell was asked to assess the reaction of U.S. allies to Presi­dent Carter's announcement Monday of new sanctions,_ m­cluding the hreaktng of dtplo­mati( rehtious with the Tehran government. . _ _ 
''We will be awaltlng wt~h interest their respor.se tn thts matter,'' Powell ~aid. Then he acided: 
"To the extent that they su_Pport us in these efforts, the cnsis is more l;kely to be resolved without the necessity of additional actions which could involve additional risks for all concerned." 
HDCenter moves to Washington 
The Center for Human Development, located at the University for five years, will be moving to Washington, D.C., on the campus of The Catholic University of America. 
Founded in 1972 by Rev. 
.Vincent Dwyer, the Center was associated with Saint Mary's College in Winona, Minn., before coming to Notre Dame in 1975. Its principal focus has been the development of pro­grams to foster the spiritual renewal of Catholic priests. Joining forces with individual dioceses, the Center uses mod­ern assessment tools to discern the needs of priests, sponsors training programs for diocesan directors of continuing edw::a­twn and their teams, and establishes diocesan structures through which spiritual growth can be enhanced. The Center has worked with almost one­third of the country's 168 dioceses, and about one-sixth of the nation's 35,500 diocesan clergy have participated in its programs. 
University and Center offi­cials said the Center would be better able to meet its needs in the new location. The move is expected to take place in early 
July. 
Powell characterized his ref­erence to possible additional action as "a clear statement of policy.'' 
Asked if he could be more specific about additional ac­tions, Powell replied, "I could be but I'd rather not be at this point.·· 
However, it was understood that options for future action that are considered open by the administration include a naval Diockade of Iran's se~ m11tes or che rnin.i.ng of its oil ports. 
Either move would have a major (mpacr on U.S. allies who are heavily dependent on im­ports 0t Iranian oil. Powell's remarks came shortly after the State Department issued a warning to U.S. allies that their Iranian oil supplies could be placed in danger if they do not support the new sanctions. 
lranian olficials have strongly indicated they will cut off oil shipments to any country that joins in the U.S sanctions. 
The  public  warnings  were  
issued  as  American diplomats  
talked  to  officials  in  several  

dozen countries, asking them to impose trade sanctions of their own against Iran. 
The FBI shadowed Iranian diplomats as they made ar­rangements to leave the coun­try before a midnight deadline imposed by President Carter when he broke diplomatic re­lations with Iran on Monday. 
The State Department placed precise limits on travel for the 35 diplomats affected by Mon­day's expulsion order' allowing them to travel no more than two miles from home or work. 
Another 209 Iranian soldiers in military training courses were also required to leave. Officials said some Iranians had asked for political asylum, but as of mid-afternoon, no re­quests had been approved. They refused to give details. 
Carter announced the de­cision to break relations with Iran in a television address Monday. At the same time, he announced new economic sanc­tions in an effort to pressure the Iranian government to release the 50 Americans who have been held hostage since the 
U.S. Embassy in Tehran was overrun by militants on Nov. 4. 
... Tuition 
[continued from page 1] 
Conklin attempted to justify the increase when he comment­ed, "It (the University) simply has to keep pace. " 
Conklin further commented on the escalating tuition costs which students may have diffi­culty paying. "We are CC>'I· scious of the danger of pr!cir,g ourselves out of the mtdole class market, but there is 1 1 way we are going to shm ­change parents who are sen·i­ing their sons and daughters here to get a ftrst rate educa­tion," he said. 
He added that 66 l?ercent of the student body received some form of financial aid and called Notre Dame's tuition "still a bargain" when compared to "peer schools" such as the University of Chicago, Prince­ton and Stanford. 
The escalating costs, how­ever, have not deterred high school students from seeking admission. John Goldrick, director of Undergraduate Admission, yesterday said that the number of applicants has increased this year-despite a $10 raise in the application fee. 
Conklin speculated that the 

rising costs are sending 
mothers back to work to enable 
payment. 
ATTENTION!!! 
STUDENT CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS 
APRIL 15 is the DEADLINE to re-registeryour 
club for 1980-1981. Also ,all items needed to 
complete your current year's file are due by 
APRIL 15. 

Submit all forms to the STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE, 1st floor LaFortune. 


he \nternshiP ~B 
f on that works 
''an educa' 

tes an intensiVe college gradua coursework sA program _otters wnie"'tt combtne~ernship5 with The \nternshtP Mtiona\ e)(penenc: twO ten-week ~~iaiiY underWnt· one-year educa BA degree a.n . . n costs are pa. is to provtde 
leading to the Mstness firms-Tut\tOose of the progra.mr alternatives. Chicago area.P~~ng firms TnedP~t~ers e)(ploring ~::ed to make tn· ten bY par\\Ct raduates. an the e)(penence 
recent collegeJsA degree and t are invo\V-With both the er declstons ternsntps. studen !cnteving an telllgent care rsework and the :d to asstsl the~ '~ning To tnts 
In addition to co~l actwttteS des~~o tnetr career ~:senttng a vane~ ed tn a progr~~ealis\tC approac lth e)(ecutwes r~P tn tndtvtdual_ an tnlormed an et tnformaiiY w and parttctpa e e tnetr sktlls tn 
end. students me ob categones. oestgned to nann . ty of ftrmse:;~\~nntng ses~~:~ng. and tntervteWI :ell-rounded tn· grouP carreparatlon. lob se ccompllsned and ds ol a ngorous 
resume P s motwated, a b the deman sstons process The scnool se~ll be cnallen~:e c~mpetltive ad:ents. tnc\udtn~ dwiduals ~~~ational program~tors ol accomPI:mendatlons. PI~~~ 
wor\<.tngle varie\Y of tndtc hlevement, rec~ acttvtties. as we draws on a academtc ac c tnterests an 
..-scores. adem' I
GMA 1 tence. non-ac e program rth centra work e)(P~\or undertaktng th ccredtted bY lh~ ~~~stance IS motwa.tiO "COl ts tullY a Is FinanCia 
duate Sc" nd scnoo 
. Keller Gra Colleges a AssOC•"''on ofcepted students •31'2)·~able to ac olltce at ' 
aval dmtSSIOns . call the a ;ntormatton. coupon beloW-­For mosr:o or send in the -­
454-0 --..nont

• '' Mana.gr.au'-'
--c.cboo\ 01
''""'a0Uai£ i:J ' 0oso6
fl.e\\r.r th I 

• Chicago. IL. :~ •lh Riverside p\aZa
10 uv­
i .. · 


The Observer Wednesday , April 9, 1980 -page 4 
... Ryan 
[contrnued from page 1] 

in the making, and is now being implemented with current freshmen. He also said he was very impressed with the estab­lishment-uuder Ryan's tenure -of the ~: i'iA program in London, England. 
·'13erause of the tremendous amount of energy he put inw rh(' College of Business Admin­i~rration, .. Furuhashi com­lllC'flted. "I think it is a very ddfncnt kind of place than it w.r-, hdorc he carne.'' 
lkfor,· roming to Notre Dame 1\\.rrt raught mana~ement 'Pur '-t''-at Loyola University, 
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE Special discount for ND 101d SMC students, 


259-0335 
SeU Lock Storage of McKinley 816East McKinley 
Mishawaka 
served as President of St. Viator High School in Chicago, and hdd the position of V1ce President of the Archdiocese of Chicago School Board. 
In his new post, Ryan will be the dean of the largest of DePaul University's nine aca­demic colleges. The Commerce College has 6,282 students. 
O'Meara has advised the College of Business Admini­srration Council to elect a committee to receive and con­sider nominations for the dean­ship. 
In a departure from past procedures, O'Meara noted, the committee will be set up 
students return from they /eji. [photo -by 
University 
establishes 
chair 
Thf> Frank M Freimann Cho• • of Physics has been f>stah;ished [n the College of Science at the University of Notr· Dame. It was announced toda v hy Rf>v Theodore M. H("shurgh, ( · S.C., president of the i ·niversity 
The chair underwritten by the foreimann Charitable Trust of h1rt Wayne, Ind., is the second endow~"d professorship on , unpus tu honor the late pres.tdent o' the Ma&novox Company. A pioneer m the elec.ronics wdustry, Frank Fre1mann was chief executive offit t'r of Magnavox for 18 years until h1s death in 1968. He served on the University's Advisory Council for Science and Engineering, and among his numerous benefactions to Notre Dame was a $500,ooo gift toward construction of the Memorial Library. The other Freimann professorship, s~t ~p by a gift from h1s estate, IS m the Department of Electrical Engineering. 
'The establishment of a chair in physics will give added Impetus to a research program 
hat is rnore than forty years uld, rather Heslmrgh com­merll~"d Rt:<;P;!r•. i, on the intf': d• ··•11 h~rwt"e!J dectrons and gamma ray.... wu'1 nuclei hegari on campu'5 1n 1937 and rwo year~ lattY Notre Dame p~ysicists accomplished the frst disintegration of a nucleus by eledrons. 

Exp<'rim('•··_al physics in the -iepartment ·oday IS represent­Pd b> che research areas of nuclear, high-energy, solid state: and atomiL ;I'heoretical ph··~JL~· ·.-_. ·ep<esented by .re­searcn m elt-mentarv parncle phys: -~ nuclear physks, aromi•. phys•L~> sraustical mechanic~, general relativity, and astrophysics. The c~air­man of the department smce 1975 has been Dr Walter C. Miller one of the p10neers in nudea'r physics at the Univers· icy· • I before this summer to expedite the naming of a new dean. He emphasized that the process of selecting Ryan's replacement will be a lengthy one, and w1il involve the use of national advertising to attract appli­cants. 
Although O'Meara could in­dicate no strict timetable for the naming of the new dea?,. ~e indicated that a good possibility exists that Ryan's replacement could be named ''just prior to semester break in December or just shortly after break next January." 
CAPmakes applications available 

Pre-registration material for members of the Committee on Academic Progress (CAP) is now available in the CAP office (345 O'Shaughnessy). All CAP members should pick up this material by 4 p.m. Friday. 
Unfortunately, some more exhausted than when Maurer[ 
1 place in this world after graduation is thinking 
about the American Express® Card.I After all, it's the most respected Card forI travel and entertainment any aspiring college I grad can carry. 1 With it you can pay for trips, car rentals, 
shopping sprees. What you wear. The food
I

·I youeat. Even.~~er:yo,u.~t::~·. ft'sabout..all 
~ .·, ~Ameritan Exp~ss Card. f>otft-leave schoolwithout it~ . . . . ..·.I , 
ladder or vacation down the Nile. I And we've even made the American I Express Card easier to get. 1 
If you're about to graduate and have a I $10,000 joblined up (or a promise ofone), now's the time to apply fur I the American Express Card. I 
. . .AJ:~.~adoodle into reality. 1 
~~~~--------------------------------­
-------------~~----­
The Observer 

Students initiate two new transfers into the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community. [photo by john Macor] 
WASHINGTON (AP) -"We are sailing in a sea of diffi­culties. We have been in this sea for some time, but the shore is far away." 
In that way, Cuban President Fidel Castro candidly acknowl­edged last December that his 
revolution had fallen  on  hard  
times.  
At  the  time,  there  were  

reports of increased street cnme, worker absenteeism and black market activities. In ad­dition, pamphlets and posters denouncing the regime began to appear in Havana. There also has been a dramatic rise in the number of Cuban "boat people" arriving in the United States. 
But nothing has quite so dramatized popular disaffection · for the regime as has the appearance of thousands of Cubans on the grounds of the Peruvian embassy in recent days, seeking political a?ylum. 
the inundation of the 'embas­sy was touched off a week ago when a Cuban policeman was killed in a cross-fire while six Cubans seeking asylum were trying to crash their bus onto the embassy grounds. The refu­gees came in droves a few days later when the government withdrew its security guards from the embassy and announc-
Census Bureau experiences problems 
Some people didn't get any 
census forms at all. Other 
people got more than one. The 
lieutenant governor of Wiscon­
sin was left out. A 14-year-old 
dog in Rhode Island was includ­
ed. 
An Associated Press spot 
check one week after Census 
Day -April 1 -showed that the 
count is going smoothly in most 
places, but there are scattered 
problems. 
Several district offices of the 
Census Bureau say they are 
having trouble recruiting work­
ers for the follow-up visits that 
will begin Aprill6. Some-places 
report thousands · of people 
were missed in the initial 
mailing late last month. 
Nationwide, just over 53 per­
cent of the households in the 
country had returned their 
forms as of last Thursday 
afternoon, the Census Bureau 
said. In some areas, the return 
rate is running as high as 90 
percent. 
The town of Secretary, Md. ­
population 500 -was inadver­
tently ignored by the Census 
Bureau. "It was the talk of the 
town,'' said Geraldine Larri­
more, a local resident. 
Mayor Robert Peters said he was worried the town would lose the $4,000 it gets in federal revenue sharing money each year. Mike Mulrine, district director for the census office in Dover, Del., said the town was left out of the computer used for mailing addresses due to hu­man error. He promised to take care of the problem. 
Wisconsin Lt. Gov. Rus'5ell Olson said he was "really miffed" that he didn't get a form. Olson moved recently and his new home is at an address that apparently didn't exist when the last census was taken 10 years ago. "He will receive one at his new address," said Lois Sixel, manager of the census office in Madison. W.is. 
Ms. Sixel said letter earners had filled out slips for address­es -like Olson's-which weren't around 10 years ago and forms are being sent to all the missed people. 
' .,. ........_........ .,_. 
Wednesday, April 9, 1980 -page 5 
Castro faces hard titnes in Cuba 
ed that those seeking asylum would be allowed to leave. 
In truth, U.S. officials say, economic difficulties have spread throughout the Carib­bean over the past few years. And, as Castro tirelessly points out, Cuba, despite its difficul­ties, is well ahead of the rest of the Caribbean in health care and education. 
On the other hand, no Carib­bean country has received for­eign assistance on the scale that Cuba has be_en receiving from the Soviet Union, currently about $8 million a day. 
But Soviet aid has not offset a number of problems affecting the Cuban economy. In a speech to the Cuban National Assembly last winter, Castro noted that much of the coun­try's tobacco crop has been w1ped out by disease. In addi­tion, "plant rot" is threatening Cuba's vital sugar harvest. The 
U.S. economic embargo also is frequently blamed for Cuban economic troubles. 
Cuban officials admit, how­ever, that the::.e factors are not entirely to blame for Cuba'~, economic plight. Castro', brother, Raul, m an unusualh frank speech last fall, als;, criticized Cuba's workers fo1 "lack of discipline and controL irresponsibility, negligence and cronyism." 


TEACHERS 
Ask a Peace Corps volunteer why she teaches deaf education in Thailand ...ask another volunteer why he works as a teacher trainer 1n Kenya. They'll probably say they want to help people, want to use their skills, travel, learn a new language and experience another culture. Ask them: 
Register now at Placement Office for interviews: April 15 & 16. 

j 
J 
1 j 
J 
Barbara Bentley of Coventry, R.I., had a different problem. The form in her mailbox was addressed to George Bentley. George is her dog. 
Mrs. Bentley returned the form to the Coventry post office. Norman Plante, super­intendent of the mails, sent it back to the census takers in Warwick, R.I. "I don't know where they got their mailing lis,,'' Plante commented. 
Census forms sent to ufban areas, contain only a mailing address, but those sent to rural areas also list the name of-the recipient. Census officials said parts of Coventry are ruraL but no one could explain why the form Mrs. Bentley received was addressed to her· dog. 
Connie Smith of the regional census office for California and Hawaii said, ''There have been some problems. But consider­ing the enormity of the project, it seems we've done very well on it " 
She said the bureau still needs workers. "We have found in the past there is a big turnover. And many offices don't have enough people yet.'' Census officials SaJd last week that hiring remained a problem in several areas, but that re­c_ruiting efforts were con­nnumg. 
[continued on page 6] 



John CarpeQter · 
The Observer Wednesday, April9, 1980 -page 6 
Candidates look to Indiana 

INDIANAPOUS (AP) ­Ronald Reagan, ] ohn Ander­son,Jimmy Carter and Edward Kennedy will be household words in Indiana by the time the May 6 presidential primary rolls around. 
They, or in the case ofCarter, his representatives, will all visit 'he stare later this month in 
•heir quest for primary election 'ntes 
Former California Gov. i~cagan and Illinois Congress­·:~an Anderson face-each other 
' rhe GOP primary, while 'esidem Carter and Sen. nmedy are competing in the 
•crnocratic contest. I:ormer CIA Director George ''h will be on the Republican .lot, but has decided against 
.Jnting an active Indiana npa•gn. 1\ t srake in the presidential 
nmary are j4 Republican dele­!ates and 80 Democratic dele­gates, numbers that place Indiana close to the middle in the number of delegates that can be won. 
States like California, Texas 
and New York provide sreater 
rewards to primary wmners, 
but states like New Hampshire 
or Wisconsin provide fewer 
delegates. 

The rules differ in each party contest on the way delegates will be apportioned among pri­mary winners. 
In the Democratic primary, any candidate winning more than 20 percent of the vote in all but two fo the state's 11 congressional districts will ~et delegates. In the 6th Distnct, the_ percentage is 25 percent, whtle a 17 percent win will pick up a delegate in the lst District. 
In the Republican primary, the winner in each congression­al district gets all the delegates from that district and at-large 
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY 
Summer Sessions 
HOME 

0 Government/Business/Sociology Internships 
0 Washiqton laboratory 
0 Language Institutes 

0 EnaJish as a Foreign Language 
0 College Preparation 
0 Elhics Institute 
0 Writer's Conference 
0 SIET AR Institute 

0 Over 200 graduate and undergraduate courses Sessions: Pre-May 19-June 13 First-June 9-July 12 Second-July 14-August IS Cross-June 9/23-August 1 
ABROAD 

0 Siena, ltaly-Jialian 0 Trier. W. Germany-German 0 Dijon, France-French 0 Quito, Ecuador-Spanish 0 Oxford, England-Business Administration 
SEND MORE INFORMATION (check above) 
Nmne 
Address 

._............................................................................... Zip ....................... . 
Mail to: School for Summer and Continuing Education Georgetown University Wasbiugtoo, D.C. 20057/or Call (202) 625-3001 
~own University is an equal opportunity/affirmative IICtioa institution in employment and admissions. 

ASK THEM WHY 
Ask a Peace Corps volunteer why he teaches business marketing techniques to vegetable farmers in Costa R1ca. Ask a VISTA volunteer why she organizes the rural poor 1n Arkansas to set-up food co-ops. They'll probably say they want to help people, want to use their skills, be involved in social change, maybe travel, learn a new language or experience another culture. Ask them: 
Register now at Placement 
Office for inte-rviews: 
April lS & 16. 
~ -,. --·,~----
.. 
delegates will be apportioned according to the statewide vote. 
The Democrats will apportion their at-large delegates accord­ing to the way congressional district delegates are appor­tioned. For example, a candi­dare winning 40 percent of the delegates on a con~ressional district basis also wdl get 40 percent of the statewide dele­gates. 
That means the Republican primary could be a winner-take­all contest if a candidate won a majority of the vote in each congressional district, while both Carter and Kennedy are expected to pick up Democratic delegates. 
Most candidates will be spending several days in Indiana before the May 6 contest. 
Reagan is coming to Indiana Tuesday, where he will speak to Terre Haute, and will visit Evansville and Lafayette the nexfweek. 
Chris Long, a spokesman for the Indiana Carter-Mondale campaign, said Vice-President Walter Mondale, Carter family members and Cabinet officials will represent the president in the state. She said no firm schedules have been drawn up yet. 

-...Census 
[contt'nued from page 5] 

Thousands of census workers called ''enumerators'' will be trained April 14 and 15 and sent out the next day to check up on people who didn't return their forms, filled them out incorrect­ly or have some other problem. Many rural households also were instructed to hols their forms for collection rather than 
.. . Iran 
[contt'nued from page 1] 

humanely, and the official radio 
noted he has calied for 
appointment of an outside ob­
server to oversee their condi­
tions. 

Iranian television last night showed film of the-hostages as they were visited last Sunday by three American clergymen who presided at Easter services in the embassy. 
In the film the hostages appeared in generally good sptrits, although some seemed nervous, as they chatted with the visiting ministers. 
Khomeini told Iranians that Carter's break in relations was a "good omen" because it meant the United States has lost all hope ofcontrolling Iran. 
The ruling RevolutiOnary Council met in an extraordinary session yesterday with provin­cial governors general to dis­cuss steps that should be taken as a result of Carter's new sanctions. 
Council spokesman Hassan Habibi said they were consider­ing a "holy war" that might mean rationing of consumer goods, putting a lid on wages and clamping d'?wn on hoarde~s and others causmg shonages 10 domestically produced goods. 

The U.S. sanctions are not expected to ha.ve a major im­pact on the Iranian economy, since trade between the two countries baA al..-cady dwindle.d to negligibJe ievdf i'l-• the embassy takleover Nc . "*· 
mailing them in. . Residents of Merrillville, Ind., got forms that listed their addresses as being part of Gary. Claude Robinson os the census office in Gar:y explained: ''The Gary P.Ost office handle& the Merrillvdle mail. ... Indivi­duals will be counted in their block and their tract.... If they would fed better by marking 
out  Gary  and  Putting  on  
Merrillville, then they  con  go  
ahead and do that.''  

People in rural Wyoming counties were told to keep their forms, but many of them are mailing them in anyway. About a dozen people mailed 01 brought the forms to the Raw­lins Daily Times. Editor Don Peterson, called the census office which sent someone to pick them up. Peterson said he "hasn't the foggiest idea" why they chose the newspaper. 
Mary Masterson of El Cajon, 

Calif., hasn't done anything with her census form. "I've been too busy answering the phone," she said. 
It seems that the last seven digits of the Census Bureau's toll-free, 800 telephone number are the same as Ms. Master-
son's local, unlisted phone number. She's been getting nearly 50 calls a day from people with questions. 
"I've complained to everyone I can," Ms. Masterson said, adding that on top ofeverything else, she got the long census form instead of the short one. 

Glee Clubplans concert,­Dawson toperform 
William Dawson, renowned composer, conductor, and teacher will be visiting Notre Dame until Saturday in order to participate in the Glee Club's Spring Concert then. He will be conducting several of his com­positions at their concert and will be giving a lecture on the history of Negro Folk Music on Thursday evening at 7:30p.m., in Crowley Hall of Music. 
Dawson is internationally recognized for his work with the Tuskegee Institute choir which he founded in 1931. Under his direction, the choir performed 


for Presidents Hoover and William Dawson Roosevelt and numerous heads ofstate. They also gave several the Tuskegee Choir, Dawson performances over national traveled and researched music radio broadcasts. In addition, of many West African countries his famous ''Negro Folk Sym­and represented the U.S. De­phony" has been performed by partment of State on a goodwill many outstanding orchestras, tour ofSpain. Among his many and was recorded by the Amer­awards, the American Choral ican Symphony Orchestra Directors Association recently under the direcri<>n of Leopold aooorcd him for "Pioneering Stokowski. leadenhip, inspiration, and 
After retiring a! conductor Gif scrvic•~ w che choral arts." 
.....................nn------------~---------------------­
.. l 
Wednesday, April 9, 1980 -page 7 
Editorials 
P. a.-Box Q 
to increase the prosperity ofReagan accused American big business at the 
expense of the underdeveloped 
world and the underprivilegedof 'hypocrisy' and of our own nation. It is time 
Americans saw through his 
virtuous facade. 
'psuedo-patriotism' Patrick Ireland 
Dear Editor: 
Administration 
I find the recent rash of letters lauding Ronald Reagan for his stand on the aboruon continues to issue absurd in light of the ex-sovernor's blatantly ~ypo­criucal views on the sanctity of stifle students human life. Admittedly, Mr. 
Reagan has now planted him-Dear Editor: 
self firmly on the side of the anti-abortionists, which, by the All too often, the students of way, represents a complete Notre Dame are refused the 
reversal of his position as d h 
California's chief executive; opportunity to emonstrate t e but does this new-found con-responsibility and maturity that cern for the unborn mean that is maintained to be an integral
part of our "successful" edu­d
he is pro-life? Har ly. -cation. The recent CLC deci-For Ronald Reagan has re-sion on the keg policy is peatedly expressed his support indicative of our ineffectual for increased defense spend-pursuit to express our adult­ing, a possible American mili-hood, and I wish to discuss a 
tary response to the Russian few matters concerning this invasion ofAfghanistan, and in point. general, a more aggressive The student body has con-
approach to foreign Jolicy on tinually been dealt blow after the part of the Umte States. blow in situations affecting the 
What makes death at the social atmosphere on campus-­hands of an abortionist more beginning with the abolish-immoral than death by an ment of section parties and American tactical weapon, now, the refusal of the keg even if the victim in the latter policy. The six dissenting case be (horror of horrors!) a votes on the CLC proposal Communist? Moreover, do we were all cast either by the fight to save our children from Administration or an arm of being murdered in the uterus the Administration (a rector, only to have them be blown to three rectoresses, and a profes­bits in an attempt by the sor). The objections to mstitu-American business establish-tingthe policy were justified by ment to protect Shell's and "the presence of alcohol abuse Exxon's policy of Mid-Eastern on campus" and "the Univer­exploitatton? sity's attempt to solve this 
problem." This is an ideologi-
Mr. Reagan is not pro-life. cal response by the Adminins-
His morality is contingent upon tration in an effort to absolve 
the political winds of the themselves of any additional 
1980's. His pseudo-patriotic responsibility to students out­
campaign slogan is "Let's side the realm of academics 
Make America Great Again"; and is another example of the 
it should be obvious that this Administration's aloofness to 
motto reveals Reagan's intent, student life. The mere con­
if elected (perish the thought), sumption of alcohol coupled with a ''weighted'' alcohol survey hardly constitute a problem. 
It is at this point that the keg issue ceases to be a simple matter of alleviating higher costs in addition to increasing order atfarties; it becomes a matter o principle. Continual rejection of sound, feasible requests by students only serves to heighten hostilities towards the Administration's dogmatic reign and causes students to question the Ad­ministration's motives. 
The commendable job done by Paul Riehle and other CLC members should not be over­looked. The problem with the proposal was not the quality of its composition but the taboo connotation that the word 'keg' conjures up in the minds of the Administrators. It is time that the Administration -allowed us to further develop that strong sense of individualism and independence and remove the constraints from our matura­tion process. 
Mtchael Shepardson Flanner Hall President 

Breen-Phillips 
women demand 
equal~e 
Dear Editor, 
The March 25th Obseroer informed us that Howard Hall retained it's crown in interhall basketball. Certainly they de­served the bold headlines and the lengthy description that followed for it was a noteworthy achievement. 
We were also informed that Breen Phillips Hall won the interhall basketball crown in the women's division in a brief ten line description which fol­lowed Howard Hall's story on the inside page. 
Where were the bold head­lines for Breen Phillips? 
Two teams of dedicated wo­men also competed for an interhall crown. Don't they deserve equal reco~nition? 
We believe that 1t is time for students at this University to acknowledge in a more impar­
Scholar-Athletes 
strugglingoncoast 
LOS ANGELES --There is a lot of scandal going on in college athletic programs these days. The Pacific Athletic Con­ference, composed of the major West Coast schools, is under fire because evidence is build­
. ing up that certain athletes were given credit for courses they never took, and . also non-athletes took tests for col­lege players who, for one reason or another, were unable to study for them. I believe the schools are taking a bad raJ>. Every college coach I've talked to has assured me that each student on his team has a faculty adviser, who counsels the athlete on his education and makes sure he keeps up his grades. I was even permitted to attend a session with an All­American running back and his adviser at Unbeaten State of Southern California. 
The adviser said, ''Light· ning, I've been studying your transcripts and you're doing quite well." 
"I should hope so. I ran over 1,000 yards last season." 
1 'I just received your grade for your debating class. You got a B minus.'' 
I'A B minus! Who the heck took that course for me?" 
'IA guy named Mark Kovey. We were hoping he'd do better but apparently he's having girl trouble and has developed a stutter. 
"I don't know why I should take a B minus because some dope has personal problems. 
Art Buchwald 

This could bring down my whole grade average. I was counting on at least a B plus in debating. It was one of my best subiects." 
"Don't worry, Lightning. You gO[ an A in Advanced Econo­mics. We had a Rhodes scholar take the final for you." 
"Now you're talking. I ain't going to bust my butt out there on the gridiron every Saturday if I can't get a good grade in economics.'' 
''You had quite a bit of a problem this year with Shake­speare 1-B." 
"I did?" 
''Yes. Apparently the stu­
dent we assigned to rake the 
course for you was more in­
terested in her own grades than 
she was in yours. I called her 
in at midterm and warned her 
that if she didn't shape up, you 
might be declared ineligible for 
next year. But she said she 
hates Shakespeare. You wound 
up with aD." 
"Can't we protest to the professor?'' 
"He said it was too late. He 
dido' t know the girl was taking 
the course for you.'' 
"Well, you better do some­
thing about it. I ain't taking no 
D. The coach promised, when he recruited me, that I'd graduate summa cum laude, and ride away in a new yellow Cadillac. ' ' 
"You will, Lightning, even if I have to take your nuclear physics exam myself." 
tial way the contributions made by men and women on this 
campus. Junior's parents 
Mary Meg McCarthy Debbie McDonnell Ann Peters 

extend thanks 
Susan Sebold Mary Ann Tighe Michele Wilson 

Dear Editor: 
Doonesbury by GarryTrudeau 
HA.IIA! 7HAT'5MY 
liN£! STAY 
/IJITH US! 
"-..... 

We simply want to J?Ublicly thank all those responsible for putting on the Junior Parents Weekend last month. 
It was obvious that a great deal of planning and. work was 
involved  to  make  It  such  a  
success.  
It  was  certainly  worth  the  

effort we made to attend, and we hope next year'sJuniors will persuade their parents to c•,me and enjoy the weekend. 
Mr. & Mrs. Peter Hoomissen Boise, Id. ho 

. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Obseroer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collese. It does not ~ecessarily reflect the policies of the administration of eithe~ in~tituuon. The news ~~ r.eporred as accurately and as· objectively as possible: Eda~n~ls represent the opimon .of a majority of the Editorial Board. _Comll_lentanes, optmo~s, and letters are the view~ .ttheir au~hors. Colum 1 space IS avatlable to aJI CU!~m J~rs of the community, anc libe free expression of '\-o rying opinions on camr-1s, thrfl 1Gl letters, .s encouragd. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
t:dJtor-m Ch1e(... . . Paul Mullaney S.\fC Nru s Ed1tor.. . ...... t-.1an· Lea\irt ;\1anaging Editor . . . . .... Mark Rust -Spurts Editor .............. Beth Huffman 
Fe,Jiures I:dllor.... . ...... Kate FarrellEditorials Editor..... . Mike Onufrak 
Ft!.:~tures Editor. . ..... Molly Wou]f,, 
Senior Cof'J Editor ......... Lynne Daley 
Photo Editor ..... ............ John Maco,·
Neu·s Editor ......... ·-...... Pam Degnan Neu·s l:.'dltor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tom Jackman 
Business Manager ......... Greg Hedge·; News Editor ............... John tv~cGrarh Adz•ertising A1.anager .. Mike Holsinge:­5A1C Executit•e Edllor .. '!-.1argie Brassil Production Manager .... Ann Monaghan 
.. 

r-
I 1 
The Observer Wednesday, April 9, 1980 -page 8 
, ' 
' 
' 

·by the Associated Press 

Republicans Ronald Reagan and George Bush, who have been takwg turns second­;:1essing President Carter's. Iranian policy, parted company ' yesterday on the president's call for a U.S. boycott of the Summer Olympics in Moscow. Bush accused Reagan of taking a ''wishy-washy position'' on the issue. 
Campaigning in Pennsyl­vania, Bush told the World Affairs Council: "I find it outrageous that this natin has not rallied behind our presi­dent. I'm appalled that my principal opponent for the Re­publican presidemial nomina­tion has taken a wishy-washy position on this issue." 
Reagan, appearing before 'THE American Society of Newspaper Editors in Washtngton, said that while he supports the idea of boycotting the Moscow Olympics, he feels
destruct, or~~~ lt.... [photo by john Macor) ' 
American athletes should be 

• 

An Tostal Mud Volleyball to begin tomorrow 
Although the committee re­quested a first prize allotment of six cases this year, Hammer said that budget restrictions 
make the increase improbable.''I am pleased by the expan­sion of this year's program," 
Hammer said. "The Volleyball Committee had originally ex-peered to form about 128 teams 
of six to eight players each, but expanded to accomodate the 166 tefims that registered." 
Hammer attributes much of the increase in enthusiasm to changes in the sign-up proce­dure. This year, Mud Volley­ball teams and Bookstore Bas­ketball teams registered con­currently. 
Boycott.c:ontinues 
free to decide for themselves 
whether to participate. 

Carter has repeatedly ex­
horted U.S. athletes to back his 
boycott, but has stopped short 
of threatening any reprisals 
against those who fail to do so. 
While Bush and Reagan re­newed the dialogue on the Olympics, supporters of Rep. John Anderson were reported circulating petitions for an in­dependent presidential bid by the veteran Illinois congress­man. 
And in Pittsburgh, Sen. Edward M. Kennedy renewed his assault on Carter's treat­ment of the steel industry. 
In voicing support for Carter's treatment of the steel industry. 
I_n voicing support for Carter's Olympic stand, Bush said, "Today, I am urging the president not only to stand firm but to -take additional action that will ensure the finality of his decision and put an end to the public debate over the participation of our athletes." 
In late January, Carter called for a U.S. boycott of the 1980 Summer Olympics to be held in Moscow this July in reprisal for the Soviet military thrust into Afghanistan. 
•Sen.;Or.:S 
l "' c OSe 
sales 

Today is the last day of ticket sales and table sign-ups for the Senior Formal. Reservations may be made in LaFortune from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Sports Briefs._·_ __, 
Mothers Club sponsors mile event 
The Burr Oak Mothers Club is sponsoring the 7th Annual Burr Oak 10-5-1 Mile Run. The non-profit event is sci eduled for June 28 at 9 a.m. Information about the run, open to those age 12 and over can be obtained from: Burr Oak Mothers' Club, P.O. Box 199, Burr Oak, Mich. 49030 or by calling (616) 489-5 392. 
Run to benefit Montessori School 
The Second Annual South Bend Spring Classic, sponsored by the Montessori School of South Bend, Inc., Athletic Attic and St. Joseph Bank is planned for May 4. The 10,000 meter run will begin at 1:15 p.m., starting at Pinhook Park and follow a scenic route along Riverside Drive. An additional one mile "fun run" is sceduled at 12:30 p.m. Both runs are open to all ages. Entry forms can be obtained from: The Montessori School of South Bend, Inc. 1302 E. Indiana Ave., South Bend, Ind. 46613 or by calling 282-1972. Proceeds from the run will benefit the Montessori School. 
FELLOWSHIPS AVAILABLE 
The Dcpmtment of Linguistics at the University of Illinois at Chicago Circle offers work leading to the MA in theoretical and applied linguistics. including an MA in TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers or Other Lunguilges). 
Beginning in the Fall Quarter. 1980. the Department or Linguistics will orrer a generous number orfellowships to qu.:~lifying graduate students-which will include a tuition and fee waiver. plus a tax-free stipend of$),()()() at minimum. In addition, other kinds or financial aid are available to prospective students. For applications and information. write to: 
Andrew Schiller. Head Department of Linguistics University or Illinois at Chicago Circle 
·..... -~u ~-~ ·......,,,_.•., ~~.,...4~8 ' . ·:· ,.. , 
...._~.~-.-...._.,w··-.····~···~'•·~ic~~~~~:.~~.t~~-.~-~·~~~•.;.~~i~n~),~·~·~~·~-r-~,~~-~)R~.·.·~ •,,
,,,;~, "' ·•·· ' ·-_,;..n<.i,, 
,._a..et...l-t.,..ftillok'I.LU%''«t~JAU.ISI.'1o.u.nli:IJJUD.UUW..tal&.I.Ul1l:tu.a.AJ.l.\,.\U1.1~ 

The Observer 
Wednesday, April9, 1980 -page 9 
·-----------------------...:------,....-;i!, 
Cellist to perform
i nort~!!~~a~!P:~~~~5~&,~~ 
the Notre Dame Concert
Karen Buranskas, cellist, will be presented in a faculty recital 
1 selectionand concert ticket h~~quartets I Prison
1 Jl.00 any tegulat album ot tape "I1 putchase with this coupon.lJ asks for
I 0 f f limit one pet petson explr•• Aprll30, 1980 .·. 'illi-1 
donations 
I •20,000albums & tapes in stock _·\;;'rl 
The Liberty State Prison Farm has issued an appeal for
I • Huge cut-out and special import selection Iopen lOto.·J··.·o_···.·.~.;-.:··.'...~1... books published in the 70s for
7 

use in the prison library.
I •ND-SmC checks accepted up to S20.00 dGys Arw:rcl 
Persons who wish to donate 1 over purchase amount op~n 1~.~ 10 277-4242,/{vl books should send them in care 
of the prison, Box 69, London,
~~~N.otth.•.Lm.Jl.a-notth ofcGmouL • n'xtto Al'asunerm&ket 1 
OH, 43140.
--------~--------~----· 
MECHA shows films 
Notre Dame's First Chicano Film Festival, sponsored by the Mexican American Graduate Students and MECHA, will be held Wednesday through Sat­urday at 7 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. The public is invited to attend and then; is no charge for admission. 
A news documentary on Chicano farmworkers in the Midwest and the efforts of the predominantly Chicano Farm Labor Organizing Com­mittee (FLOC) to organize these workers in a ltnion will be shown 1hursday. This film. made in December 1979-by a 
, ' , Villain 

[continued from pagt: 12] 
praying for a settlement. 
"I guess we'll just help out with the minor leagues,'' said Pirate coach Bob Skinner as he watched Vance Law, a young­ster in the Bucs' system, sign 
auto~raphs. 
Skmner named Law, son of former ditching star Vernon Law, an Dale Berra as two of the Pirates' best bets for the future. Coincidently, Berra is the son of former catching great Yogi. And you ran bet the younger Berra, an infielder by trade, is reminded often enough • his ~;>arentage. 
"Hey, Yog1," said Dave Roberts to the 23-year-old Berra during a game with the St. Louis Cardinals, "how many interviews did ya get today?" 
"Just two," came back Berra. 
"Well, if everybody knew my dad I might get a few, too!" smarted Roberts. 
Berra was not the only scapegoat of Pirate barbs, nor was Roberts the only tease. Dave Parker, MVP of the 1979 All-Star Game and a Golden Glove outfielder, received and dished out his fair share of abuse in the fun, yet produc­rive, Pirate camp. 
After smacking his second homerun in a 6-1 win over the Cards, Parker trotted out to his home turf in right field, 'con­veniently located near the bull­pen, only to be abused by his teammates. 
"OOOOOOie. He's a king," lashec;l out Craig Cacek. "Dialin' long distance, huh Dave?~' offered Steve Nicosia. "Awesome,"-burst everyone else in the bullpen. The slugg~r was~'t to be o~tdone by hls budd1_es, so t~e 
TV news station in Toledo, Ohio, describes the strug~,~;les of the first farmworker umon to arise in the Midwest and pro­vide:; multi-dimensional cover­age of the issues surrounding the FLOC organization. 
The FLOC documentary will be followed by The Unwanted, a film by ] ose Luis Ruiz that examines the economic and sociological implications of undocumented Mexican workers. 
Thursday night has been designated as a fundraiser for FLOC. Donations are encour­aged. 
nobody got hurt downtown, 
did they?'' 
Sor,le of the cage talk did center around the free agent mess with some not-so-nice comments coming from players. 
''I'm sick of this free agent ----," harpecl one Pirate. "Look at Regg1e Jackson. He doesn't even hit over 300 and he's getting bucks. That's just a million dollar mouth." 
Nowadays everybody wants to be in a commercial. Prior to a game with the Phillies catchers Ott and Nicosia were clowning around the batting cage when Ott sniffed, "Mmmmm, somebody smells good." 
The duo zeroed in on Observer photographer Lisa Gasiorek and the undeniable scent of Sweet Honesty. 
"Must be .your after shave," smarted Gasiorek. "You oughta do a commer­cia!,'' I cracked back. 
"Yeah, I can sure sing better than Ruse!" laughed Ott, just 10 feet away from the former Cincinnati switch-hitter. 
Little kids are now wise to the advertisement business. If just one more little tyke offered Parker or Willie Stargell a Coke I would have died. 
No amount of clowning around or hard work can give this story a happy ending. The Pirates, along with the 25 other major league teams. want that coveted 198(J WorldChampion­ship title, but before October, an awful lot of give-and-take needs to take place in negotia­tions. 
I couldn't come up with a clever moral like Aesop, but I do have a warning--'-'get a ticket soon to see your favorite major league team now, be­
. cause it looks to be a very • 
L1f~,.of the Party, K1ng Davtd~·'"'short lifi..l n~~ y:erv ~:w.eet l980. Parli..~h,7"•"Shon~-ti:M:k-~"'-~l'.%~t¥<-·~~'t~~fnl:'.~ol1GnJ..J.:J:>I'• ;-..; ·--· · 
by Series at 8:1 '.i p.m. tonight The program in the Memorial Library Auditorium is open to the public without charge. 
Buranskas, principal cellist with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra, will be accompanied by William Cerny, pianist and chairman of the Notre Dame Music Department. Her recital will irdude the Hindemirh Sonata for solo cellist, c_t-,us 25, no. 3; Bach Suite PO. 3 in C Major; Introduction, Them<-' and Variations, opus 82, no. 2 by Franz Schubert, and clo~e with Brahms' Sonata no. 2 in F Major, opus· 99. 
COLIDJIBIAUNIVERSITY inthe CityofNewYork 
.JIIIUmmllllllllf 
rr --:· !i 


The Summer Session of Columbia University offers students the opportunity to study at the most distinguished educational institution in America's most cosmopolitan city_ The rigorous and challengmg curriculum, distinguished faculty, outstanding research facilities, and New York City itself combine to stimulate the individual and s';'pport the student's course of study. 
Daytime and evening graduate and undergraduate courses will be given by more than forty arts and 
sciences departments and professional schools. Among these are: -Foreign Lunguages. Arabic. Chinese, French. German. Greek, Italian. Japanese, Korean, Latin, Russian. Spanish, and Yiddtsh. 
focus on Design. An intensive introduction to the design professions including architecture, histone 

preservation, and urban design. Repertory Theatre. A workshop involving the mounting and production of two contemporary plays perlormcd 
in repertory. In addition to student actors, positions in design, production. management, and tochnicalthe.Itre 
are available_ 

Study Abroad Programs. French language and architecture in Paris, Italian language in Florence, urb'-'" 
planning in Venice. 

Additional Courses. Students may choose from courses in a variety of areas including anatomy, .1rd11tectur<' 
and planning, art history, biochemistry. biology. general and organic chemistry. compuler science. 
economics. engineering, English and comparative literature, lilm. geology. International allairs, )OlHnahsm. 
mathematics, physiology, and creative writing. 
The summer student body is a select group of highly motivated men and women, two-thuds of whom ath.!ri<l 
Columbta dunng the academic year. College and universily students are encouraged to apply lor adrnissi''ll 
Columbia's 32·acre Manhattan selling is generally regarded as one of America's most handsome urba11 
campuses_ All the resources of the University are at the disposal of summer students. including !he extensivt• 
library collection, computer resnurces, complete recreational facilities, SOCial and cultural acliVi.ties. illtd 
residence halls_ 
I 

First Session• May 19-lune 27 Second Session July 7-August 15 ! 
plus special three-week, eir;l-: 

"'-' a~d_:::eek :sio~~-----------_ ----~· 
! 

Send 1980 Summer Session bt. icllJO or,d application to address br,:u.v 
I am espeCially interested in 

Mr /Ms _ ---------------­
Address ___ ·----~---------------~--· ----~ ---·---·--·--­
C1ty ___________,________ State __________ ----------------____, __ Ztp 
Send to· Summer Session, 102 Low Library, Columbia University, New York, N.Y. 10027 
:SUMMER SESSION ~8G J.. 
·~ 
-
The Observer Wednesday, April 9, 1980 -page 10 
Baseball season opens today 

There are no last-place teams <lO Opening Day and so Atlanta .and Toronto, a pair of perennial basement occupants, start the I 'J80 haseball season tf'..tay full ,f optimism. 
The Braves, who finished at rlw hottom of the National f.e:1gue West in 1979, help the 
1 ..·is ion champion Cincinnati 
:cds open the NL season in a 
·ay game. Tht·n Toronto, 
hich has never finished any­
·lace bur last in the American 
.eague East, gets the AL ,eason going with a night game :lt Seattle. 
Atlanta, which finisred a fat .!3 1/z games behind the Reds last season, will send veteran knuckleball ace Phil Niekro to the mound against Tom Seaver of the Reds. Niekro was 21-20 last season and celebrated his 41st birthda}' last week. Seaver, 3'\, finished 16-6 in 1979, winning 11 straight games. The usual Opening Day sellout ofmore than 52,000 fans will jam Riverfront Stadium for the contest. 
The Blue Jays, with 109 defeats in 1979, the most losses of any team, will use Dave Lemanczyk, 8-10, against Seattle's Mike Parrott, 14-12. A crowd of20,000 is expected at the Seattle Kingdome for that game. 
There are four more openers scheduled for the Nauonal League tomorrow with Chicago at New York and Pittsburgh at St. Louis in day games and Los Angeles at Houston and San Francisco at San Diego in night contests. Montreal plays at Philadelphia Friday night com­pleting the NL slate of openers. 
In the AL, Baltimore plays at Chicago and Boston is at Milwaukee in day games tomor­row with Minnesota at Oakland, New York at Texas and Detroit at Kansas City at night. The final AL opener is scheduled for Friday night in California where Cleveland plays the Angels. 

The Braves and Blue Jays both have undergone some restructuring, part of it com­pleted in a trade between the two teams. 
Atlanta acquired ex-New York Yankee first baseman Chris Chambliss and shortstop Luis Gomez in a deal which delivered outfielder Barry Bonnell and pitcher Joey McLaughlin to the Rlue Jays. The Braves also picked up pitcher Doyle Alexander and 

ACROSS 29 Studious 1 Rollers inquiry 5 Telephone 33 Greak 
transmitter letter

The Daily Crossword 
10 Get excited 34 Pertaining 14 Egress to Norse 15 New York mythology 
city 36 A-and a 16 First natu-delusion 
ral number 37 Beer bas1c 17 Layer 39 Piggery 18 Intellects noises 
19 Let it 41 Slanting stand 42 "Turandot," 20 Greatly for one 
respected 44 Caucasus 22 -down native 24 Arch 46 French 
25 Elflike season creature 47 Cylindrical 26 Diminish worm 
Answers 3/26/80 
All Rights Reser'tf!d 

,-----------------------------------,r
I RIVER CITY.RECORDS ! : 
I

! northern Indiana'~ lcugest record &tape : ~. selection o.nd concert ticl-,et heo.dquQtters 
; ~ CfJ.QQ Mytegularalbumortape 
~ 'P put(hase with this coupon. 
1I OFF limit om~ per <>etson npl••• Rptil30,1980 I I •20,000 o.lbums & to.p•s in stock 'I :I I •Huge cut-outo.nd sp•cio.l importae!•ction open 10to10 ~ . 
I 7doys , · I •ND-smc ch•cks o.cc•pt•d up to 1~0.00 •I ov•t putcho.M o.mount Op4tn tOto 10 277-4242 lr 
I~Z.Q.Il.\.Ut!.~~-iL111V£~imeL.:.l:f~~.!U.:.S~~=~u 1._ 
LA.TELYITS BECOME: 5£R Ja.JS... '...'E FELL IN LOI/£. I'vE C011F 10 ASK PERMISf>/OIIi 7b MAP.R'f HER 

infielder Larvell Blanks in a trade with Texas and added free agent-relief pit.:her AI Hrabosky, who puts on a show everytime he comes to the mound. 
In addition to McLaughlin and Bonnell, the Blue Jays carne up with pitcher Paul Mirabella and infielder Darnaso Garcie from the Yankees in the same trade in which they got Chambliss. 
Toronto also has a new manager, 64-year-old Bob 
A few of the current members of the team agree with their coach and with Digger. 
"I think the change is good because it shows progress,'' said junior guard Maggie Lally, who next year should become the first four year member of the women's team in its years as a varsity sport. "It will bring in better talent, and competition. It was inevitable that they would upgrade the program, and I'm glad to see it happening now.'' 
The 5-0 native of Sharon. Pa. 
[continued from page 12] 

men and women should be working together. Now, the student body will be able to see both teams compete in one evening, which wtll mean a lot in terms of school spirit. 
I've contended for a long time that Notre Dame is first class,'' she added, ''and if some of her teams are big time, then all of them should be big time. This is !1 step in that direction, and I thmk that's a good sign." 
by Michael Molinelli 


Takes small bites Sour fruit 

Public storehouse Town of witch trials Wash lightly Did garden work Greek island Log cutter Vacuum tube Vilified Ophidians Physicist's 
concern Rip apart First game Kettle drum Particle Former soldiers Precious stone Fruit for rickeys Sign of the future Melody Coastal bird Heavenly body " ...a man­mouse?" 
49 Schoolbook 25 51 Narcotic 52 Small dis· 26 
agreement 27 53 Large book 56 Carries on 28 
a business 60 Heroic in 
scale 29 61 Title: Lat. 63 A Reynolds 30 64 Housebroken 65 Put up 31 66 Kart nina 67 Shanty 32 68 Armed 35 
forces 38 69 Malign look 40 
43 DOWN Whale 45 
2 WWII enemy 48 3 Habitual 50 
nourishment 52 4 Tension 53 5 Military 
raider 54 6 Foreign 7 Flex 55 8 Stripling 9 Follows 56 
10 Muscovites 11 One opposed 57 12 Contended 58 13 Diminutive 
ending 59 21 Fleuret 23 Jimmy's 62 
title: abbr. 

Sprin~ Con<~ert 
NOTRE DAME f.ONCERT HA"n 
THURS.APRIL lOth 
A r"" C 
~u. •

• £ 
University 0 Notre Dame 
.\dmission fo'rt•e 8:15 P.M. 
~ :1 ::1 =* 
~ 5_ lp ill I'· ~ iiiP I r I 
~-------"-,..r________, 
Mattick, who has spent a lifetime in the scouting side of baseball. 
Today's games will be the first played since April 1 when the Players Association called an eight-day strike wiping out the final 92 games of the exhibition season. The regular season starts with a shadow hanging over the calendar be cause the players have pled~ed to walk out again on May 23 if a new contract with the owners is not signed by that date. 
...Petro 
went on to say that she didn't think that change would hurt the team mentally. 
"We feel pretty good when we play well, even when we lose. In the past, we've had a tendency to play well against the better teams so if we can maintain that, we should be able to get a lot of satisfaction out of the season, whether we have a winning or a losing record.'' 
One of Lally's teammates, freshman Shari Matvey, agreed that there will be satisfaction to be gotten out of next season, and is ready to start that season at any time. 
'Tm really excited about this change and I'm glad we're making the transition now," stated Matvey, who hails from Austintown, Ohio. "We're going to be big time now, and get all the publicity and ores­tige that goes with it, and I'm just really excited to be a part of all that.'' 
One of the areas which will be effected by the change im­mediately is that of scheduling. 
If the team is going to compete on a Division I level, it must play an excess of Division I schools. This past season, a total of four such schools were on the schedule, including Michigan, South Dakota, St. Louis, and Illinois-Chicago Cir­cle. The closest Petro's team came to beating any one of those schools was six-point loss to Michigan in overtime. 
All four schools have been scheduled again for next year, as well as Miami University of Ohio. Other names being thrown around as additions to next year's schedule are Mary­land, Virginia, and South Car­olina, all division one schools, (Maryland and South Carolina were in the AlA W national tournament's final four) and Dayton, Division II national chamfions this past year. 
Unti a new coach is officially named, a lot of problems will be left undecided, such as scheduling, allocation of schol­arships, and personnel to be involved in the program, but there is one thing for certain: the change is here. And not only is it sudden, like all the other changes made at this University, it shares another trait with those changes. 
Think back. Can you think of anything done 1round here on 
E ,)'€., 

a  :-.ll J:,asis?  :·lh-un.  This  
ch.  o'  like all  ...e oth<  '  is  
here I•  ctay.  
J.=  

I. 
suppl... ::tten t tc-morro·w 

Tom or: t>W' s Ub.server \'• -' feature a special sup­p:ement previewing major league baseball. The Irish Extra will in­
clude  analysis  of  each  
division  as  well  as  staff  
predictions.  


The Observer -SportsBoard Wednesday, April 9, 1980 -page 11 
Sport Shorts 
Men ,women rowers win 
Both the men's and women's varsity rowing clubs were victorious over the University of Tennessee on April 6 in a match held in Nashville, Tenn. The men's novice team, coached by Paul Devitt, suffered a loss to the University of Jacksonville on April 5. The Rowing Club will open its home season Saturday with an 11:30 a.m. meet with teams from Grand Valley State College and the University of Michigan. The teams will begin the 2000 meters race at the Mishawaka Marina on the St. Joseph's River. 
Tracksterslose at Middle Tennessee 
The men's outdoor track team finished a disappointing last place in a field of five at Middle Tennessee State over the weekend. Joe Piane, head coach of the Irish was encouraged at the meet with the performances of Kevin Kenny in the 1500 meters (3:51.8) and Mark Novak in the 5000 meters (14.32). The team travels to Arkansas State on April 12 for a dual meet. 
Netters return from 6-1 tour 
The Irish tennis team spent a productive break touring Mexico, competing against various clubs. Notre Dame ended the trip with a 6-1 record, thr: only loss coming in Mexico City 6-3 against the Junior Club. Herb Hopwood was sidelined for that match with a minor back injury but will return to the lineup when the team hosts the Notre Dame Quadrangular Tournament this weekend. 
Golfers take second at Ball State 
The Irish golf team spring break in Florida, touring an:d practicing on the state's many courses. The squad returned to Indiana and placed second in a field of 15 on Monday in the Ball State Invitational. Tim Sacheck took second in the individual competition with a score of 73 for Notre Dame. The team's scheduled match with TriState today has been cancelled due to the unfavorable conditions of Burke Memorial. Monday the team will compete at the Indianapolis Invitational. 
Ruggers conclude Florida swing 
The Rugby Club added itself to the list of Notre Dame teams visiting warm areas over break, traveling to Ft. Lauderdale. Notre Dame's A squad tied the Ft. Lauderdale Rugby Club 3-3 with the Irish goal coming from Jim Zadac Boca Rotun defeated the Irish 12-9 in B team compt>tition. The rul1"by club will face the Chicago Griffins in the Windy 
City on r April 12 and then return home to host John Carroll on April 19. 
Women fencers finish 14th 
Notre Dame's Dodee Carney, Liz Bathon, Susan Valdiserri and Marcella Lansford finished 14th out of 26 teams at the National Intercollegiate Women's .Fencing Association Championships at Ohio State over break. Penn State (83) edged out defending San Jose State (81) for the title spot. Notre Dame finished with 50 points. 
Sailors prepare for weekend meet 
The Notre Dame Sailing Club spent spring break in style, cruising the Florida Keys on a 38-foot yacht. The club left Lauderdale on the charter accompanied by the University of Illinois. The sailing experience should help the Irish in their meet this weekend with Ohio State in Columbus. 
Hotvedt to speakon Title IX 
Astrid Hotvedt, coordinator of women's athletics at Notre Dame, will be the featured speaker at ''Focus: Title IX Athletics," a program sponsored by the South Bend Chapter of the American Association of University Women at Bethel College Campus Center tonight. Hotvedt will direct her talk on what Title IX covers in relation to elementary, high school and college athletics. The 8 p.m. meeting is open to the public. 
Branning, Hapzlik to playfor all-stars 
Rich Branning and Bill Hanzlik are slated to play for the Indiana Co!lege All-Stars against the Midwest All-Stars in a benefit basketball game April 11 at Hinkle Fieldhouse. The Irish seniors will join Mike Woodson and Butch Carter on the Indiana team which will be coached by Lee Rose of Purdue. Ray Meyer heads the Midwest team forth-.: benefit game sponsored by Sertoma Charities, Inc. 
WCHA names Irish all-academic 
Three senior members of the Notre Dame hockey squad--Greg Meredith (Toronto, Ontario), Tom Michalek (Dearborn, Mich.) and Ted Weltzin (St. Paul, Minn.)---were selected to the Western Collegiate Hockey Association (WCHA) all-academic team. Meredith, Notre Dame's all-time leading scorer with 104 goals during his four-year career, owns an outstanding 3.8 accumulative grade point average in finance. The former Rhodes Scholarship candidate also was named to the Titan All-American West Hockey team by the American Hockey Coaches Association and earned a berth on the Denver Post's WCHA all-star squad. Michalek, who shared co-captain duties with Meredith, boasts a 3.9 grade index in electrical engineer­ing. The 5-9, 165-pound center tallied 15 goals in '79-'80 and added 44 assists for 59 points to finish second in the Irish scoring race. Michalek merited honorable mention on the Denver Posi's all-star team and entered the season as a Rhodes Scholarship candidate. Weltzin, a science major with a 3.4 grade J?oint average, accounted for 14 goals and 23 assists (37 pomts) during the '79:'80 season. A 5-11, 175-pound center and left wing, Weltzin plans to attend medical school following his graduation. 
Soccer benefitcomes to Notre Dame 
The Chicago Sting and the Minnesota Kicks will play a 
benefit soccer game 10 the Notre Dame stadium on April 21. 
The match between the two professional soccer teams is 
sponsored by the South Bend Symphony Orchestra 
Association. There will be an admission charge of $2.50 if 
tickets are purchased by April 21 and a $3.50 charge after 
that date. Tickets for the 2 p.m. game are on sale at the 
ACC ticket office. 
... Drills 

[continued from page 12] 
conclude on Derby Day, Satur­day, May 3 with the 50th annual Blue-Gold Game. 
For the first time in recenr years, Notre Dame's entire coaching staff returns intact from the previous season ... the official breakdown on 1979 lettermen shows 38 monogram· winners returning with 18 grad uaring ... eight of 11 starters will return on defense to go with six returnees on offense ... puntc·r Dick Boushka will be back bur placekickers Chuck Male anc; Joe Unis have hung up their 
spikes. 
Two of Notre Dame's 1980 games have been switched It> accomodatr: ABC-TV .. rht· Purdue game in Notre Dame Stadium has been moved from September 27 to September 6 while the Southern Cal classic in Los Angel~s has been moved back a we ~k to December 6 ... the September 6 start is the earliest start in Notre Dame':-. history. 
Hockey 
Preliminary Round Best of Five Yesterday's Games 

Pittsbur!lh 4, Boston 2. Pittsburgh leads series 1-0 Philadelphia 4, Edmonton 3. OT, Phi Ia· delphia leads series 1-0 Buffalo £, Vancouver 1, Buffalo leads series 1-0 Montreal 6, Hartford 1, Montreal leads series 1-0 New York Islanders 8, Los Angeles 1, 
N.Y. 
Islanders lead ser:.;s 1·0 Minnesota 6, Toronto 3, Minnesota leads series 1-0 Chicago 3. St. Louis 2, OT, Chicago

leads series 1-0 New York Rangers 2, Atlanta 1, OT, 

N.Y. 
Rangers lead series 1-0 


--'
Baseball 
Opening Day Pitchers (1979 records) Wednesday's Openers AMEiiiCAN LEAGUE 

Toronto (Lemanczyk 8-10) at Seattle (Parrott 14-12), (n) 
Only game scheduled 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Attanta (Niekro 21·20) at Cinctnnati (Seaver 16-6) Only game scheduled 
All classified ads must be received by 5 00 p m . two days prtor to the issue in wnich the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10 00 a rn. to 5:00 p.m Ali classtfieds must be pre-paid, either in pP.rson or through the mat/
Classifieds 
Notices 
Students--Learn while you sleep! use that 1/3 of life in bed to learn faster. Send $25 to Michigan Sleep Learning Institute, P.O. Box 121, Edwardsburg. Mi. 49112. 
Typing done in my home. Call between 8:00 A.M. and 7;00 P.M. University Park Mall area. 277-3085. 
Typing Plus: Term papers, theses, dissertations. Light editing, ghost writing. Literary search, bibliogra­phies, genealogies. Job resume service. Sliding rate scale based on lead time. Special discounts on full contracts for theses and dissertations. Aardvark Automatic Solutions/P. 0. Box 12041 46624/phone 219-289-6753. 

anted 

I need 1 measley graduation ticket. Desperate!! Mick 8212 $$$$. 
----------------.
Need ride· to Champaign this Friday, April 11. Call 1884. · 
Overseas Jobs: Summer/year round. 
Europe, S. America, Australia. Asia, 
etc. All fields, $500-$1200 monthly. 
Expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free 
information. Write IJC, Box 52-14, 
Corona Del Mar, Cal., 92625. 
For Rent 
Rooms--Now and/or summer. $40 month. 233·1329. 
Need male students (preferably) to share three bedroom house, newly remodled. all new. carpet. Near NO. Call 289-7269 after 5 PM. 
Lost&Found 
Lost: Checkbook. Please return to me. Reward! John C. 1779. 
Lost: Silver Rosary in black leather 
case last week before break. Reward. 
Call 233-4295 or 283-6298. 
For·Sale 
Join the crowd! Pope John Paul II for president bumper stickers. $1.00 each/three for $2.00. Satisfaction guaranteed, GOLDEN DOME, Box 41, Bergenfield, N.J. 07621. 
Got a blank space on your wall? Fill it up with color basketball photos. All players, all sizes. Cheap. Not available from Ronko or K-Tel. Call 8932. 
For Sale--Prices Slashed! Audio Tapas: Cassette and reel to reel, limited supply! Equipment: 16M M, filmstrip, slide projectors and viewers. Tape recorders, mics, head­phones, a.mps and projection bulbs all at reduced prices. See us at ETS, 9-12,1-4:30 PM. Room 009, CCE(Across from Morris Inn) 
Educational Technology Services 

Personals 
Rosemary Thanks alot for all of the help. Have a go(1d time this weekend. PM 
Andrew Grosso 
This is your second notice. If you do not make progress on the story of the Arc soon, OFFICIAL NOTICE will be posted. 
Oracle of the Dallan. 

Color basketball photos still available. Slam dunks make great decorations. Call 8932. 
To the 1980-81 Dbsarvar staffers: 
Welcome back and congratulations. (Bet you thought I was never going to say that!) I'm looking forward to working with each of you in the months ahead. 
Love ya'
IIMOM" 

Secret "Admirer" 
So, yot d 't even answer person­als? l'c • ~ru· • vou with my manuscri! . ·ur publica­tion is ev..n I ' • I. r :. ~g? There are a large r...n....!. ·s around. 
D. MuriJIIY 

Lisa. Julie, and Ritt, 
Thanks for the good times in Florida. Always remember. if you're going to toss, do it on hands. 
Mary 

P.S. Lisa, watch out! I'll burn those "negatives." 
Attention Notre Dame' Be prepared: Today is Beth Lochtefeld's birthday There is no excuse for not celebrating it! 
Keenan Keggers, 
Breakfast was great. Maybe ne>.t time you'll introduce your chefs to your guests. We kept out oart of the bargain. 
To the Secure Saphs. 
Peel party on Walsh Beach. Bring your skin and champaigne. but leave your harem behind. 
Insecure Frosh 

To the Old Men, Sorry about the abuse. Thanks for the laughs. The Arrogant Freshmen 
Anne and Cori, Thanks for including us. It was great! Jenny and Margi 
---~---------------­
Zombie and Mai-Tai, Takee·Outee, TAB. Pam, lalala. A Pretty Girl. .. lt was bouquet by us! 
All Hilton Headers: Thanks for a great 'trip'! Always remember ...come again next year. · PB&J 

• 
~J>orts 
by Mark. Hannuksela Sports Wn.ter 

Change. At a university as nch in tradition as Notre Dame, that word isn't heard roo often. Coaches have a tendency to staj· around into the double-digits numbers of years. Administrators ar d professnrs don't come and go roo rapidly. Women have only heen a parr of this campus for 
•·tghr years. Yes, things just don't chan~e 
•'''' much around here. Year-m · md year-our, life just goes on. But every once in a while, you 
1~er rhe shocker. A pnest 
narneJ Hesburgh becomes Uni­
\ ers1ty president. Dan Devine 
replaces a iegend named Ara. 
Female co-eds invade a pre­
viously all-male campus. 

Shock seems to be a predomi­''anr reaction to changes at this university, because they occur -;o suddenly. Like this Title IX 1hing. Granted, it was only a matter of time, but the change, t·specially in the area of wom­en's basketball, has taken more . than a few people by surpnse. 
Just to recap something you've probably heard many rimes already, the program will cease to operate on the Divi­sion III level, and will next year become Division I. This will entitle the University to hand our up to 12 grants-in-aid to members of the women's team. 
'J'he allocation of these will be left up to the discretion of the coach. And speaking of the coach, a screenmg process will be set up to name one of those, hopefully by the middle of April, this in compliance with a federal regulation on the avail­ability of position in an athletic department. Current Coach Sharon Petro is one of those being considered. 
The man put in charge of overseeing all operation until such a time as a head coach is named, is Digger Phelps, coach of the men's team and chairman of the basketball department. 
According to Phelps, the change promises to be a bene­ficial one. 
"I think that it (the women 

Baseball 's villain strikes again 
competing on a division one 
lc:;vel) will be a ~reat opportu­
nity for the Uotver:;iry," said 
Phelps before break. "This is 
going to put us in a position 
where the women's team will 
eventually be able to compete 
on the same success level as 
the men already do. I think it's 
an excellent move. 

"Now of course, it's difficult to predict the immediate effect of the change in terms of what it will do to the team's record next year," he continued. '' Afterall, my first year with the men's ream, we lost to UCLA by 58 points. But there's no doubt in my mind that we can catch up to the rest of the field, and sooner than you might think." 
Petro, who just completed her third year as head coach of the women's team, did not expect such a drastic change, but agrees with Digger that the change should be a good one. 
''The philosophy of the pro­gram is gceat," she stated earlier. "I think that ideally, this is a great situation. The 
(continued on page 10] 
Sha.'"on Petro's future as women's basketball coach rests in the har~ds ofDigger Phelps. 

Again 

Weather delays drills 
by Craig Cht;a/ Sports Wn.ter 

Notre Dame's annual spring drills, originally postponed two weeks in the hopes of better weather, were set back another day Tuesday when the second 
session was washed out ... the players instead worked out indoors ... several representa-­tives of NFL teams, including head coach Chuck Noll of the World Champion Pittsburgh Steelers, were on hand Tuesday to time some of the Notre Dame squad ... former Notre Dame All-America center Dave Huffman, now employed by the NFL's Minnesota Vikings, was in town to check up on the progress of his "little" brother Tim ... at 6-5 and 250 pounds, Tim goes by the otckname 
BRADENTON, Fla.--Once upon a time there was a thing called Spri~"g Trainmg. Then along Lame Srrike Two. Stnke Two, the villain of this smry, rw.l;ed ~nring Training exactly one week prior to thf' openin~ day of baseball. The villain 1s a crear Jre fabncated by stubborn owners, !>tubborn players, and of course, Marvin Miller, rhe player~· representative in the whole c:xr ravaganza. 
~;trike Two came as expected, but with some rarher unexpected connotations. The expected ~ oycott rc~ulted from stalemated negotiations berween the owners and players over -what el;;e-free agency. Players want the mandatory '>ix years wn:1 an initial club (which currently allows for fn·e agency eligibility) cut to four. The ownt:"rs refuse. Owners want compensation for the loss of a !'rt:"e agent. The players refuse 
So, with neit'Jer sidt:" willing to give an im~h the players deuded to hit the owners where ti. ' hurts the most (the pocket} by striking. The big question before the 26 player representatives who met in Dallas was not whether or not to strike, but when. Ske?tics said an immediate strike was imn!inent. others predicted the walkout for Memorial Day Weekend, the upswing date for ticket sales. The players ''Tiny,'' and should merit con­siderable 41l-America mention next fall as a senior offensive guard ... Dave is attending ~rad­uate school at the University of Michigan during the off­season. 
Spring Football '80 

Under NCAA rules, each school is allowed a maximum of 20 practice-sessions during spring drills, the late start and Tuesday's postponment will fon e head coach Dan Devine and his squad t'J practice Monday through Friday during the week, even thou~h Devine hasn · t done so In recent years ... the spring >ession will 
(co11tinued on page 11] 

Beth Huffmail 
Sports Editor· ingeniously (brainstormed by Miller, I'm sure) opted for a combination of the two: a walkout on spring training, showing the owners they mean business; followed by a brief O(>ening of baseball; and then the big boycott begmning on May 23. 

"We're not telling anyone our secrets," said Ed Ott, catcher for the World Champion Pittsburgh Pirates. 
fhe unexpected strike-play-strike theory of rht' .layers surprised everybody, because it was hustness-as-usual in camp up until the walk out. The Pirates, baseball's closest knit ­"family," abused, encouraged, and entertained fans, oppone:lts and one another in their short spring work out. 
Coaches (the middlemen) checked out rookies, watched veterans, and cut rosters 
[continued on page 9] 

Wednesday, April 9, 1980 -page 12 
Irish Items ~-;-----------.....·
-,.:~ 
by BillMarquard 

Editor's Note: Today 's Insh Items zs the first ofa regular series by Bill Marquard which includes notes and bits of interest involving Notre Dame athletics. 
For the third straight year Notre Dame's basketball team 
drew the largest nation! television crowds on NBC. Once 
the ratings from this season's roster of nationally-televised 
regular games were tallied the Notre Dame/Maryland, 
Notre Dame/UCLA and Notre Dame/Marquette games 
finished 1-2-3 in the ratings derby. 
It was also estimated that the Notre DameI DePaul game 
beamed to about 90 percent of the country by Metromedia 
Communications Sports, was viewed by an estimated 20 
million people. That's three times the audience which NBC 
usually draws for ii:s Sunday national game .. .In the highly 
competitive Chicago market, for example, the Notre 
Dame/ DePaul game drew a 21 percent rating, meaning that 
21 of every 100 households in Chicago were tuned to that 
game. The teleca~: drew a 31 percent share, meaning 31 
out of every 100 TV sets turned on in Chicago were 
watching the Irish beat the Blue Demons. Such impressive 
off-the-court statistics should guarantee Notre Dame a lot of 
television exposure in the future and a big chunk of that 
prime television dollar. 

TO BOYCOTT OR... -Gene Oberst, who won a bronze 
medal in the javelin in the 1924 Olympics just weeks after 
graduating from Notre Dame, is another of the growing 
contingent that opposes an Olympic boycott this summer. 
•'They are a place where athletes make friends. It can only help the cause of international relations,'' remarked the elder alumnus. 
RECRUITING REPORT--Today is the first day for 
seniors to sign national letters of intent for basketball. It 
should be the end of harassment for a lot of 18 year olds 
around the country and the end (or start) of ulcers for a lot 
of coaches. 

TRAVEL REPORT--The outlook is quite rosy for a lot of 
the Irish athletic teams this sprin~--wm or lose. Many of 
those suntanned complexions walkmg across campus belong 
to members of Irish teams who managed to migrate south 
last week. The tennis team played a week of exhibition 
matches in Mexico, the women's tennis team took refuge in San Antonio, the lacrosse team journeyed to Houston, the crew team practiced in J acksonvdle and the track team ran at Middle Tennessee State (which is still closer to Florida than South Bend). Even the baseball team made a mini-southern swing ... through Cincinnati. 
BASKET WEAVING The current turmoil about 
falsified college transcripts and grades has spread to the 
University of Southern California, where football coach John 
Rol)inson admitted that he was "naive" in handling 
classroom matt~rs with his plafers before. As part of an 
interview concerning the scanda Robinson told an Associat­
ed Press correspondent, ''If I find out that my tailback has 
missed class the week of the Notre Dame game--and I'm 
going to be supplied V\oith this kind of information--then he's 
not goin~ to play against Notre Dame." That might be 
easier said than done. 

NETWORK BACKGAMMON--Notre Dame's dream doubleheader slated for next November has fallen victim to network insomnia. As of a few months ago, Notre Dame was slated to play USC in football on November 29, the Saturday after Thanksgiving, in the Los Angeles Coliseum. Only hours after the cpnclusion of that game, the Irish were supP.osed to tip-off against UCLA in basketball at Pauley Pavdion. An Irish fan's and senior trip planner's dream, right? Not any more. ABC moved the USC game to December 6 to fill an otherwise uneventful weekend in college football, and since UCLA is playing football in the Mirage Bowl on that Saturday night the Notre Dame/UCLA showdown has been changed to Sunday afternoon, November 30, in anticipation of a possible television appearance. 
As if ABC had not rearranged our schedule enough, they moved the Purdue home game from September 27 to Sef ... mber 6, thus P.ushing the season opener ahead two weeks. Students wlll have their first home football game much sooner than usual in the school year with the 2:20 
p.m. EST game against the Boilermakers. Listed as the "principal game" of all ABC regionals that weekend, the Notre Dame ~arne aginst Purdue should reach a majority of the country smce ABC's other regional offerings are Wake Forest vs. Virginia Tech. and Tulane vs. Southern Mississippi. 
Notre Dame thus has three open weekends next year in what was originally a breakless schedule. The Irish will have off-weekends before three major games: September 13 before Michigan, September 27 before Michigan State and November 29 b(' ~ '"e USC. 
That should ~ .c.e summ-er practice a little longer and a little hotter. 




