, , , Free Enterprise rapped-page 3 
. 
VOL. XIV, NO. 72 TUESDAY, JANUARY 29, 1980
an mdependent student newspaper servmg notre dame and saint mary's 

ND FacultyWomenwinJudges' support in discrim.ination issue 
by Mark Rust News Editor 

U.S. District Court Judge Al­lan Sharp ruled yesterday that he would not bar Notre Dame faculty women froin discussing their pending class action suit with their lawyers before their opt-our date on Friday. 
The University, in an_ impor­tant prelude to the sex discrimi­nation case scheduled for th<>' fall. lost their attempt to place restraining orders on the plain­tifls who they said were being misled with inaccurate legal information. 
Notre Dame had contended that the attorneys for the plain­tiffs-Barnhill. Miner and Davis of Chicago -were guihy of giving misleading and innacu­rate information to the potential 
Dean favors amending party rules 
by Manbeth Moran · Staf!Reporter 
Dean of Students James Roe­mer said that the guest list requirement in current party regulations might be subject to revision in a CLC debate last night. 
"I feel that we might be able to amend the policy,·' he said. 
In response to this ·statement a committee composed of three students and three hall rectors will be set up to investigate the possibility of revision of current guidelines. Keenan Hall Presi­dent Paul Reih I e came out strongly in favor of a change in current party room policy. 
Dean Roemer : ''Ifeel that we may be able to amend the (party) policy'' 
Reihle said he felt that the curre11 ; regulations were stifl­ing and inhibiting successful parties in the hall. He noted that a trend of going to the bars for lack of social opportunities on campus has appeared lately. 
The changing of current guidelines caused much discus­sion among CLC members. Student Government Executive Co-ordinator Rick Gobbie said he thought the present policy inadequate because the party policy presupposed alcohol. Student Body President Bill Roche pointed out the inequali­ties in party policies between halls. 

. d ] ~ 
[contznue on page 5 · 
members of the suit, and potential members of the class sought to restrict the attorneys action suit in December to from appearing"<lt a m~eting of discuss technical aspects of the Committee W tonight. Commit­. SUit. tee W is a women's group and Later in rhe month, a repre­subcommittee of the American sentative of the law firm. Association of University Pro­Bridgir Arimond, summarized fessors (AAUP). the meeting in a letter to 
Committee W. and their Gilbert, which was subsequent­Chairperson Elizabeth Gilbert, ly forwarded to other women invited a representative of the 
[continued on page 4.]
attorney's office to meet with 
Defense tips biggest budget in US history 
WASHINGTON (AP) -With the oil-rich Middle East in turmoil, President Carter asked Congress yesterday to approve a $616 billion election-year budget that aims most new spending at energy and defense programs. 
Carter's budget proposal for the 1981 fiscal year was the largest in the nation's history and represented a $52 billion increase over this year's federal spending. Military funding got the biggest boost, growing from $127.4 billion in 1980 tQ $142.7 billion in 1981. 
There was little new money for most domestic programs, but dollars were found for job training, housing and revenue sharing programs to mollify key Democratic factions. 
The budget' projected a $16 billion deficit next year, the final admission that Carter has been unable to fulfill his 1976 campaign promise to balance the budget. 
This year's deficit, which Carter had expected to hold close to 
last year· s $27.7 billion, now i~ projected to exceed $4_0 billion. T~e 
sharp increase was blamed 10 part on U.S. spendmg for gram 
purchases and Pakistani aid in the wake of the Soviet Union's 
military intervention in Afghanistan. 
And although the budget document acknowledged that 
continuation of inflation at more than 10 percent this year would 
push most Americans into higher tax brackets by 1981, it proposed 
no tax cut. 
Tax and other revenues are expect .:d to increase to $600 billion 
in fiscal I ')81, which begins Oct. 1. : .me $14 billion will come from 
the so-called "wind-fall profits tax" that Congress IS expected to 
levy on oil-n>mpany earnings. Personal income tax collection~ ~re 
expected to rise 15 percent above the 1980 level to $274.4 b!lhon 
next year. 
This increase in revenue will occur, the administration says 
despite the likelihood of a mild recession in the first half of 1980 
and sluggish recovery into 1981. . 
"If the economy begins to deteriorate significantly, I will const?er tax reductions and te!'flporary spending programs for job creatton targeted toward particular sectors of economic stress '' Carter l?romisc:;d_ in his budget messa,ge. "But I believe curre~t economic condmons argue for restraint.'' 
Reaction .to Carter's budget was mtxed, although there was general pratse from Congress for his decision to increase military spendmg. 
Rep._ Paul Simo~, _D-Ill, a liberal member ~f the House Budget Committee, was cnucal of the budget. He satd: "The president's budget better gauges the public mood than it does the nation's needs. While you're upping defense, you're cutting aid to the handicapped.'' 
Sen. Bill ~oth,R-Del., called the spending package "a campaign 
budget destgned to avoid offending anyone in an election year." 
He added that. the average family offour will end up paying at lea~t $533 more 10 taxes. "To call this budget 'restrained' is like callmg the ayatollah a 'moderate,"' Roth said in a reference to Iranian leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. 
But the senior Republican on the Senate Budget Committee, Sen. _Henry Bellman of Oklahoma; praised Carter for resisting an electiOn year tax cut. "It makes no sense to provide a fictitious cut in taxes out of borrowed money," he said. 
House Majority Leader Jim Wright, D-Texas, said: "The budget h~s a necessary and. very salutory emphasis on defense. Congress will not want to reduce the amount that the president has asked for defense.'' 
Rep. Melvin Price, D-Ill., chairman of the House Armed Sc:;ryices Co~mittee, said he thought his panel would approve the mtluary portton of the budget "pretty much as the president requested." 
And Rep. G.V. Montgomery, D-Miss., also a member of the committee, said he has "a better chance of Congress increasing it 
than wtting it." 


ISLAMABAD, Pakistan (AP) ­Foreign ministers from 34 Isla­mic nations adopted a resolu­tion today condemning the So­viet intervention in Afghanistan and demanding ''<he immedi­ate and unconditional withdra­wal'' of Soviet troops from that Moslem nation. It threatened a boycott of the Olympic Games in Moscow. 
There were reports some mini­sters had sought an even rough­er resolution that would call on Islamic nations to sever rela­tions with the Soviet Union. 
That step was not taken. But the measure "invites" all Isla­mic states "to withhold reco~­nition ··to the illegal regime m Afghanistan and sever diploma­tic relations with that country until the complete withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghani­stan." It suspended Afghani­stan's membership in the inter­national Islamic organization. 

In another harsh rebuff to the Soviets, the resolution called on members "to envisage through appropria•e parties the non­participation'' in the summer Olympic games ''until the Sovi­et Union, in comJ?Iiance with ; the call of the Umted Nations General Assembly and the Isla­mic Conference · withdraws all its troops forthwith from Afgha­nistan." 
The resolution was passed by. consensus. 
Other resolutions before the emergency meeting, which o­pened Sunday, dealt with the Palestinian issue and Iran, spokesman reported. 
Four other resolutions also are before the emergency confer­ence that opened Sunday, and the ministries scheduled ano­ther plenary meeting for 9 a.m. Tuesday (11 p.m. EST Monday) to consider them. A formal closing session is scheduled for later Tuesday. 
The four remaining resolu­tions are a general statement on foreign pressures against Isla­mic countries; one dealing spe­cifically with economic pressure against Iran for holding up to 50 American hostages in the U.S. Embassy in Tehran; the status of Jerusalem and "Palestine," and foreign interference in the Horn of Africa. Conference sources said all four were approved earlier by consensus in the organization's political committee. 
The Soviet Union has sent up to 100,000 troops into Afgham­stan to help the pro-Soviet Afghan government in its fight against anti-communist Mos­lem rebels.. 

. ... •· ..... -.. ---............ --.. '"·· ........... . ' . 
·­



News in brief 

Tuesday, January 29, 1980 -page 2 
Senate'votes to nix Olympics,  
urges allies to ostracize Reds  
WASHINGTON -The Senate Foreign Rela~ions Committee voted 14-0 tqday to u~ge that .no Amer:tcans atten,d or compete in dus summer s Olymptc Games 10 Moscow tf the lnternationaly Ol~mpic Commttt~e permits them to goforward. Young alter more than tour hours of debate, tfie panel ~lso sailed on Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance to mtensit_y eftorts to persuade other nations to support the U.S. Q.olicy. The vote came after Deppty, Secretary ofState Warren Lhristor.her restated Carter adrpinistratioQ policy that tpeUn_ite9 States sh9uld not i?e play10g g~mes 10 M.oscow while a Soviet Army ot occupatton remams 111 Afghamstan.  
Kennedy warns ofCold War  
II, blames Carterfor allills.  
r r,, r,  WASHINGTQN -Sf;n. E.dward M.. Kennedy, seekin,~ to n:juven;ue h1s pr:esJdeflt.Jal campatgn bl~med Prest ent Caner tor the !raman cns1s Monday and sa1d restormg raft registration is a "sJep acro.ss the threshhold of ~ld war II." ln-his own state ot the umon m~ssag_e, Kenne fllso c~Ued for a six-month wage and pnce l:reeze an tmme tate gasoline rationing. Tfiere was no immediate response rom fhe White House, but Carter pas .opposed mandatorywage-price controls. Kennedy satd hts. proposed controls w.o1,1ld apply not only to wages and pnces but to profits,d1v1dends, Interest rates, anarents. Tankerslices cutter; Coast  
r r  Guardfears many lives lost  
r  
r ~ f ,' ,'  ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. -A 180-foot Coast Guard vessel collided with an oil tanker MQnday_ night and sank with 53 persons on boardhofficials said. A hshmg bo~t picked up 19 survivors from t e Coast Guard bouy tender Blacktfiorn within an hour of th~ collision while lielicopters and other boats w~re sent to attempt to rescue the others, Coast Guard Petty Otficer Lance Jones ~aid. It was not known how many crew members were aboard the oil tanker or their status. The Coast guard issued a Max Day alerting all other ships in the chiinnel to stay clear, a Tampa Port Authority spokesmansa1d. ·  
~  Reaganponders blockage  
f r  toflush out pesky Soviets  
~  NEW YORK -Republicap presid~ntial hopeful Ronaldf Reagan says a blockade ot Cuba mtght be a good way o gewng the Soviet Union out of Afgfianistan. 'They liave ;lirplanes and pilots there. They ·have tropps, fhere on thflt 1sland. A blockade of Cuba c.ould q~ an opuon, Re-agan sahtd Sunday on CBS's "60 .Mmutes program. Reagan, t e Republican frontrunner m the polls but a lo.ser to ex-CIA chief George Bush in the Iowa caucuses, satd he had not appeared in a key Republican deb~te there because, "I .have been aga.inst any,thing that mak~~ It appear that Republicans are runmng agamst each other.  
Weather  
Becoming cloudy Tuesday with highs in the teens. A 40 percent Chance tor light snow Tuesday night. Lows in the single digits. Snow likely Wednesday wtth h1ghs in the upper teens to low 20  
CamP-_us_  _____.  
1-3 p.m. ART EXHIBIT workd, ISIS GALLERY  university of illinois graduate art  
4:30p.m., BIOLOGY SEMINAR* "hormonal regulation of ovarian development in an autogenous mosquito,'' GALVIN AUD.  
7 p.m., MEETING FORTUNE  year  m  Japan,  BASEMENT OF LA  j  
' 9 p.m. NAZZ, openstage, BASEMENT OF LA FORTUNE  


-The Observer_ 
Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 

Prosecutor submits patents 

FordPinto trial continues 
I I 
rights lrt memd. 

~----------------~ 
by Zenon Bidzinski 
Winamac, Ind. -Prosecutor Michael A. Cosentino yesterday introduced copies of General Motors and Ford patents that showed both automakers were designing cars as early as the mid-1950's to avoid the defects that allegedly caused a 1973 Pinto to be overly susceptible to the fuel tank rupture and explosion that killed three girls. The documents were identi­fied and described by Byron 
Bloch,  a  Los  Angeles  auto  
safety  expert,  shortly  before  
recess  yesterday  afternoon.  
Bloch,  tn  his  second  day  of  

testimony in the Pinto trial, used the patents to explain "the state of the art" of auto safety design and manufacture. 
The first of the rwo patents belonged to General Motors and was applied for in January, 1955. Entitled "Vehicle Con­struction," it included a design embodying a full length peri­meter frame, with cross mem­bers, and a fuel tank located above the rear axle. 
The Ford patent, applied for in 
~The Observer_ 
Gilligan's Island Night 
Night Editor: Pam "min­now" Degnan Asst. Night Editor: Ryan "skipper" Ver Berkmoes Cindy ''coconuts" Klir~s, Bill "Gilligan" Keenan Copy Editor: MB ''Mary Ann'' Moran Layout Staff Dan "Thurston Howell III" McGrath News Editor: Mike ''the professor'' Shields Sports Layout: Beth "Gin­ger'' Huffman 
"Three Hour Cruisers" Typists: Mary Beth Budd, Beth Huffman, George Bi­ron, Amy Pecykowski EMT: Paul "desert isle" Selavko 
Proofreader: Maryellen 

"Mrs. Lovey Howell" Brad­
ley 

ND Day Editor: Maribeth 
"coconut cream" Moran AdDesign: Flo "palm trees" O'Connell Photographer: Greg ''wrong­way fellman'' Maurer 
Guest Appearances:' 'Natives, ·monkeys, Gorillas. and 
Cosmo11auts" Paul Mullaney, 
Craig Chval, Sal Sig. C. 
Granata 

The Observer (USPS 581 12111 is published Monday thraugh Friday 11­cept during eum and vacatlla plrildl. The Observer is publilllld by till students of Notrl 011111 _. Slint Miry's Cllllgt. Sublcripdla lillY Ill purchnlcl tor S2D per ,., 1111 per IIINittrl from The Observer. 1'.0. 1111 
0. Nltrt bal!ll,lndiiRI 41155i. SICIIId cl111 '=' paid, Nitre Dlllll, In­
diana . 

The Observer Is 1 ,......,. If 1111 Aaociatld Prt11. All t.IIIIICtlln 
August, 1956, incorporated a 
"saddled" fuel tank, placed in 
front of the rear axle and 
contoured over the drive shaft 
like a saddle. Both designs 
were to insure safety in the fuel 
system, called fuel system inte­
grity by those in the industry 
said Bloch. 
Implied in his testimony was 
the fact that the 1973 Pinto was 
designed in direct contradiction 
to the safety features of these 
patents. The prosecution wants 
to use the fact that the Pinto 
had no full length perimeter 
frame -and thus no rear cross 
member to a frame -and that 
the car's gas tank was located 
behind and below the rear axle 
to l?rove the Ford was reckless 
in tts design and manufacture 
of the 1973 Pinto. 
Ford has been charged with 
three counts of reckless homi­
cide stemming from an August, 
1978, rear end collision that 
resulted in the fiery deaths of 
three teenage girls. The acci· 
dent occurred just north of 
C'JOshen, in Elkhart County, but 
the defense requested a change 
of venue to the small town of 
Winamac, some 65 miles south­
west of South Bend, because of 
adverse pretriarpublicity. 
Cosentino dramatically began the fourth week of the trial and the third week of witness testimony by having rwo cross sections of the rear half of a 1973 Pinto dragged into the courtroom and positioned in front ofJudge Harold Staffeldt' s bench. Caught somewhat by surprise Ford defense attor­ney James Neal attempted ob­jections, mostly relating to his unfamiliarity with such a mo­

del. Cosentino, however, quick­ly and decisively cut him off. 
"I don't know what they're talking about, your Honor,'' the Elkhart Prosecutor loudly re­torted. "They've seen it before. It's the same model used in the Grimshaw case in California.'' 
Cosentino later told reporters that Byron Bloch, the expert then on the stand, had prepared the model and used it to testify in the California civil suit by a teenager badly burned as a result of a 1973 Pinto fire. The jury in that case awarded the plaintiff $127.5 million, later reduced to $6.3 million by the trial judge. 
After Bloch had presented the jury a slide show of various pictures he had taken of the badly burned and deformed Pinto in which the three girls died, the seven men and five women of the panel were allowed to examine the cut­away sections of the Pinto model. 
They keenly examined the "hostile environment" around the fuel tank, the area Bloch earlier had told them was filled with various sharp edges and bolts and which was only pro­tected by a virtually worthless "cosmetic" bumper six inches from the back of the tank. 
At the end of the day, Cosenti­no told a group outside the courthouse that he thought he had won a few points. Judge Staffeldt, however, also had granted Ford's motion yester­day to exclude all evidence of the design of the 1971-72 and 1974-76 Pintos, statio~ that he thought only information about the 1973 model was relevant. 
ANY STUDENT INTERESTED? 




iiiiiiiiiiiilll=~ 
IN THE POSITION OF  
,~-c~\~l  
~~o\"'o~-~\ov,stv.'IJ~ {'OV.\9">  e ~ ­ 
•  
471  ~  

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiicoiiiiiiiintaiiiiiiiiciiiiiiiitRiiiiiiiiOiiiiiiiiSiiiiiiiiEiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiAiiiiiiiiRiiiiiiiiYiiiiiiii?-­

_ (applications due FEB I) ~ 
11 
' 
"La Boheme"Chorus 


AUDITIONS 

for Students and Faculty Thurs., Jan. 31, beginning 7pm · Sign ups at Crowley Hall 

N.D. Music Dept. staged production with N.D. ,orchestra and Chicago Opera soloists April 19, 2~ 
administration of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opimon of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is avail­able to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Editor-in-chief ....... . Rosemary Mills Managing Editor..........Diane Wilson Editonal Editor .............. Ann Gales Senior Copy Editor......... M. Onufrak Executive News Editor .. .... Mike Lewis News Editor .................... Mark Rust 
News Editor ................. Mike Shields SMC News Editor........M~rgie Brassll 

_Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Sports Editor ... ............... Mark Perry Features Editor .... . Kathleen Connelly Photo Editor ... ........... Doug Christian 
Business Manager ........ Steve Odland Production Manager .... John McGrath Advertising Manager .........Bob Rudy Controller........... .......Kevin Manion Circulation Manager ......Greg Hedges 
·-········--·-----~-----· 
•••• t ·-·.· ••·.·.·-.• • .... -~·-·-·-·-·-....... -.......
-. ­

...-----~------:---~-~--~ ~~------­
The Observer Tuesday, January 29, 1980 -page 3 

SMC President Duggan 
speaks out on ~ c~pus tssues
• 


by Pam Degnan Senior StaffReporter 
Saint Mary's President John Duggan talked about the goals and philosophies of the college's liberal arts program and answered phone calls expressing disa­tisfaction with the parietal system in a WSND interview last night. 
Duggan repeatedly empha­sized the fact it would not be 
VVWshechallengesfree enterprise system 
by Betsie Boland 
At a debate sponsered by the Grace Hall Cultural Arts Commission in the Grace Pit last night, Professors Peter Walshe challenged the A­merican capitalists's ideology offree enterpnse 111 a blister­ing accusation of corporate misuse of power abroad, while Professor Bernard Norling's unwavering sup­port of multinational cor­porations in the world econo­my brougnt unfavorable re­sponse from an overflow crowd of nearly 200. 

Rzchard DeVos; see story
below. 
Finance Club 
sponsors 
Forum 
Four noted buisiness leaders, including Richard DeVos, pres­ident of the world-wide Amway Corporation, will participate in the 22nd Annual Finance For­um at the University of Notre Dame January 29-31. The pro­gram is sponsored by the Finance Club of the College of Business Administration. DeVos will discuss "Free En­terprise'' in his talk at 7 p.m. Thursday in the Memorial Libr­ary Auditorium. 
Other forum program.s, all scheduled for the Hayes-Healy auditorium on the campus, include a discu~sion at 7 p.m. Tuesday of "C· porate Finan­cial Structure" at J ;.--n T. Hackett, execuu... :.-vice £I"t>sid­ent and chief fir, . :cia! oftt~er of Cummins Engine Company, Columbus, Ind. 
CharlesJ. Nicolosi, vice pres­ident of Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc., will speak on the topic "Fundamentals Are Always in Fashion" at 4 p.m. Wednes­day. 
After wryly noting th~t Fr. Hesburgh nad not resigned from the board of Chase Manhattan, in spite of Walshe's suggestion that he do so in his Oberver editorial of Dec. 4, Walshe stated that it is our responsibility to be morally conscious. 
"We have a co-responsibili­ty with God for history . . . and all human institutions are under judgement," Walshe said. Although the exact methods may not be clear, we "know which way to lean, and that's in the direction of equality." 
According to Walshe, U.S. corporations like Chase Man­hattan have defined the good life as consumerism, and many, including Norling, have "swallowed" that ideo­logy. Twentieth century cor­porations are no more demo­
[continued on page 4.1 

realistic to have men in the dorms all the time. He conceded that women should seek out opportunities to build friendships with men, but abolishing the parietal system would not be a "beni­ficial" solution. 
"I just don't think that having male visitors in dor­mitory rooms on a 24-hour basis would enhance any relationship," Duggan said. 
One SMC student caller asked Duggan if it would be possible to abolish the parie­tal system on an expe.nmen­tal basis. She proposed that a dorm be· set aside in which students would be allowed to have male visitors without restrictions. Students would have to request parental permission to reside in that dorm. 
In reaction to this proposal, Duggan commented that he is not against "well·thought­
out  and  clearly  defined'·  
proposals  and  encourage.d  
students  to  process  their  

suggestions through the ap­propriate channel of student government. 
Duggan, however, said that next year freshmen will not 
GETAGOLDEN TAN IN MIN UTES FEEL YOUNG &ATIRACTIVE EVERYBODY LOVES ATAN 
Two minutes in our center equal two hours in the sun--and it's safer too! Individual dressing room and booth for comp\e:J~m;iva,£Y..;.. _____• 
----------COUPON -I 
I ' I 
~ WIN A FREETAN REGISTER NOW. 1 
L,V.oo off member~.!J2J::titiwbi~2..U.£.Q!l,__ _ _.___J 
GOLDE'!'J"'TAN11\N!.. expires 2/ I 1180 52318 U.S. 31 North • 9-9 Mon.-Sat. So. Bend, In. 272-5350 1-6 Sun. . 
be expected to keep curfew hours. This proposal will b~ implemented on an expen­mental basis, he said. 
' '...women should seek 
opportunities to build 
friendships with men ... '' 
''The idea of getting rid of curfew hours is to encourage students to become mature and responsible adults. I think students will be encou­raged to volunteer their whereabouts if they plan on leaving town," Duggan >aid. 
On the goals and pnuoso­phies of the college, Duggan explained that Saint Mary's offers an excellent opportu­nity to achieve a Christian liberal arts education. He also said that the College tries to instill the student with fu· lamental values such as the abiliry to analyze and understand world pro­blems. 
., 
In answer to a question concerning the estimated construction of the library, Duggan said that "with a little luck," ground-breaking 
1
for the library would begin 
~
by lat~ spring. · 
1
"Right now I have an 
1
approximated $2.5 million 
1
through alumni contribution, 
1
but this is a $6 million project. I wish I had strong 
1' 
alumni support like that of 
I 
Notre Dame," Duggan said. 
1
Another subject that trig­
1 
gered much student reaction 
1 
was the supposed rule in the 
1 
student handbook that for­
1 

bids parties -alcoholic and 1 non-alcoholic -in dormitory rooms. There is no such 
' 
regulation in the handbook. 
'Tm really surprisJ:"d at what I'm hearing about this regulation," said Duggan. "If you separate drinking and parties, which I know is hard for people to do,' then I don't understand why you can't have parties without drinking." 


Social Concerns Film Series
I 


Tuesday Jan·. 29 
Wednesday &Thursday Jan. 30 &31st 

Harlan County U.S.A. 
6:00 8:30 11:00 


Bread and Chocolate 
6:00 8:0010:00 
Engineering Aud. 
Library Aud. 

All the Kings Men 

Engineering Aud.

6:oo 8:30 11:oo • 
------------~----~~~--~~~~~----~
Sponsored by St~dent Government and Center for Experiential Learning 
I 
, ..:b.. 
i 


The Observer Tuesday, January 29, 1980 -page 4 

Htslory Prof Norling defends Amencan .fapitalism u;htle
deh.Jitng ethical fi.UfSiiOTJS in the Grace Hall pit. See related 
siOIJ on page 3. [l)hoto by Greg Maurer] 
TELECIKE 
SPECIAL OCCASION CAKES 
Delivered across town or across the nation 

[continued from page 3.] 
cratic than the landed nobili­
tv of earlier centuries and, 
moreover, the idea that "the 
free enterprise system sup­
ports democracy is an illu­
sion,'' Walshe said. 

Walshe concluded by say­ing, with large crowd sup­port, that the U.S. "must develop a new critical politics ...that is not fearful, but has a certain vision (of) a greater equality, domestically and internationally, and can deal with corporate power and bring it under control of the democratic process; that can, in fact, make a nuance judgement about the plurali­ties that are required in a complex third world situa­tion." 
Norling focused on the is­sue of practicality versus idealism. "Nationalism," he said, "iinh~ foremost mass passion of th~_ntieth cen­tury," and compctitiQn be­rween nation-states is lnevi­tible. Citing Korea, Vietnam, and Iran as examples, he said that although the U.S. supports ''unpalatable re­gimes" abroad, the "great majority of political decisions involve picking between one or more disagreeable alter­native governments.'' 
Crowd reaction increased when N,.orling grouped labor unions, teacner's unions and 
• • .Debate 
• • • Discrimination 
politicians with businessmen in their ethical behavior. ''Why single out the busi­ness community and assume they are morally inferior to the rest of us?'' he challeng­ed. 
Corporations' role in deve­loping countries is necessary and Inevitable, and "Wes­tern attitudes and wealth producing mechanisms'' must be accepted along with the investment capital, he said. 

An observer challenged Norling's statement that the fastest develuping countries, 
[continued on page 6.] 
[continued from page 1.] 
faculty members, the University objecteJ to the circulation of this letter and entered it into court records as potential evi­dence for their claim of "mis­leading legal advice." 
The University particularly ob­jected to a sentence in the letter which read: "The EEOC (Equal Employment Opportunity Com­mission) has already intervened as a plaintiff in the Ford case, and is considering asking the court for permtss10n to mter­vene in the Frese case as welL" The University contended that 
the  sentence  implied  the  ful!  
support of the  EEOC  in  both  
cases.  

In addition, the University claimed, the letter did not tell the potential class action mem­bers that they may sue sepa-



Pt-tEPAP.E FOR: J~m 
MCJT·OAT· LSAT •GMAT­ORE· GRE PSY-CH·liRE BID PCAT•OCAT•VAT· MAT· SAT 
. VALENTINE IS FOR LOVERS! 

1MBI.H,m·ECFMG·FLEX·VQE
' ' 

NDB I, D • NPB I • NLE
Red Hearts or Roses on a Telecake 

Flexible Programs & Hours 
will express your feelings to your 

Visit Any Center And See For Yourself 
loved ones on that Special Day ­

Why We Make The Difference 
Valentine's Day, February 14. Telecake is as close as your phone 
KIIPUIN 
to have a birthday or valentine cake delivered across town or across the n'ation. CALL TOLL FREE 
800-453-5710 

.'
(Order early to insure O-' •-tJ · ·· ,:'"'. :·~'e' v; 
VQ(.I r:AN USE YOUR CPED:T ~~-·RD 



William Rick Ackerman Walters 
"an evening ofacoustic guitar" 
Sunday, February 3-8:00p.m. Washington Hall 
TICKETS AT STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE OR DOOR $2.50 PER PERSON 
rarefy d the class acrton suns were lost At1 orneys for the University also objected to "pep rally"-like fliers which Committee W sent out to faculty members to advertise their meeting with attorneys tonight. 
''This court cannot tell Com­mittee W whom to invite to their meetings," Sharp told University anorneys. He cited six First Amendment prece­dents, including the Pentagon Papers case and the New York Timt:s case in his ruling against the University. 
Sharp said that he would issue one narrow stipulation: that attorneys for the plaintiffs not "hassle or otherwise prosely­tize" any members of the women faculty who have alrea­dy opted out of the suit. 
In the Frese case, 130 non­tenured women are eligible to participate and 34 have thus far opted ouL In the Ford case, six tenured women are eligible and three have opted out, prompt­ing Sharp to sp!"culate that the case may_ no longer be a class act ton sutt. 
Charles Barnhill, attorney for the plaintiff. told the Observer after tht· trial that Committee \X: could plan on Arimond appearing at the· meeting to­night, iust as slw was invited to do before the hearing. 
Lunchtime fast signups conzmence 
Tiu : ,\1• -_\'nrld Hunger 
( .oalllt· · ··''''-'. ·1w Fa;,t sigh­ups w,l~ :w i.v'•' · ,morrow from 11-lr•:: ;~rl\.l p.rn.ineach of the· •!·.•! rib , .ast semester <;tuckn:,.. ratsed ,,,.er $9000. dol­lars rhruugh the /rogran• to help alleviate wntl hunger. 
Science Dean recetves researchgrant 
Dr. Francis J. Castellino, dean _of the College of Science at the University of Notre Dame, has been awarded a grant of $600,000 from the National InstitutC"s of Health to support over th<: .r.ext five years research l'f the I":J-:"~· of calcium, protein :· · :ds _aP< metal ion in blood c•_• ~dane' 
CasteihlO, w •-noted that the gram was '1 renewal of support for research he has done previously iu this area, said the study's ultimate signif­icance was in controlling those factors which lead to blood clotting, stroke and other bleed­ing complications. • 



The Observer 
Tuesday, January 29, 1980 -page 5 

8.3%increase 
Saudis pump up oil price 

Current party regulations were discussed by the CLC last night. 
See story which begins on page 1andis continuedbelow. [PlJoto
by Greg Maurer] 

[continued from page 1.] 
Roche questioned the status of certain hall parties that ignore party rules concerning liquor. He said he felt parties that do not currently conform to Uni­versity guidelines can still be conducted in an orderly fa­shion, and encouraged foster­ing such parties. 
1-\oerner inferred that such authorized evenrs. though not wnrren down. were a precedent 'icttlflg situation and might be J.ll~>wed rn continue. 
In other allion the CLC unani­lll<tthh passed a prop<lsal to ;mwnd the du Lzc paragraph c<~th crnlflg 11all. judicial buarJ~. ;\n irH n·a,cd rn the number of srudent'-st·rvmg from ') ro ­
History Prof coauthors book 
Dr. Vincent P. DeSantis, 

professor of history at the 
University of Notre Dame, is a 
coauthor of the fourth ·edition of 
Prentice Hall's "A History of 
United States Foreign Poltq: " 
The new edition lll•ludes 

.qtah·,,-, •1f llnircd State" ti-.re­
tgn ·,,.. ,ji, 1 durin~· th:-t•.J7Q's 
fr,,m tit<· withdrawal,.,( I ;nired 
-.;r;n, .., :r""r" fn•rn VwP·ame> t•.• 
rlw • ,;, lu-,ion nf the \ftddh 
l.ast · n .tt ws. 
\ .oaurh,•r'-with DeSantis-: a 

·'I1L"c iali-;t in American political 
and diplomatic-history, were 
Dr. .l ulius W. Pratt, professor 
emeritus of history at the State 
University of New York at 
Buffalo. and Dr. Joseph M. 
Siracusa senior lecturer in 
American diplomat ice history at 
the University of Queensland, 
Australia. 
CILA sponsors workshop 
CILA will sponsor an educa­tional workshop this weekend on the issues and values involv .. ed in Election '80. The sessions will be held in the l·ibrary lounge from 7-10 p.m on Friday and 9-12 a.m. oP Saturday. Sister Nancy Sylvestur of NET­WORK, a religous lobbying organization will lead the ses­sions. Registration forms are available in ND Student Activit­ies Office, and outside the SMC dining hall. The forms must be in by 3 p.m. today. 
• • • CLC 
with the two additional mem­hc-rs scheduled to be alternates, met no opposi rion and generat­ed lillie discussion in irs pas­sage. 

THE LEADING NEWSMAGAZINE AT THE LOWEST PRICE. 
1
j 
,· 

NEW YORK (AP) -Saudi Arabia, the largest member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and the supplier of about 7.4 percent of 
U.S. oil needs, told customers it has increased its base crude oil price by $2 to $26, Exxon Corp. announced. 
The8.3 percent increase in the price of Arabian light crude, the tractional benchmark on which other OPEC prices are based, was retroactive to Jan. 1 and had been expected by many analysts. ' 
The move lifted the average price of a· 42-gallon barrel of OPEC. oil to about $28 from 
26.83. A year ago, OPEC oil sold for an avera~e of 13.50. 
The latest Saudt move follow­ed a $6-a-barrel boost that was made retroactive to Nov.l. The December announcement touched off a wave of increases by other OPEC members that raised the U.S. price of a gallon of gasoline or heating oil by 14 cents or more in recent weeks. Monday's increase could add up to a penny more to fuel prices here. Industry sources said they had not heard if other major producers were following the Saudi move. But "we face an interesting week,'' said one oil trader, adding that Nigeria !llight soon announce a price mcrease. 
Another trader speculated In­donesia also might decide to boost prices. Together, Nigeria and Indonesia provide about 8 percent of U.S. oil needs. 
Saudi Arabia produces 9. 5 million barrels of oil a day, about one-third of OPEC's out­put. According to the Energy Department, the United States imported about 1.35 million barrels of Saudi oil a day in the first nine months of 1979, about 17 percent of U.S. imports or 
7.4 percent ofU.S. oil consump­tion. 
The influential Middle East 
crease representsd a move to 
Economic  Survey  quoted  an  
unidentified  Saudi  source  as  
saying  he  felt  the  Saudi  in­ 
''  

reunify OPEC prices" after the cartel ended its December meeting in Caracas, Venezuela, with a pricing split. 
SU positions 
open for 
applications 
Applications for Director and Comptroller positions in the Sru_dent Union may be picked up to the SU offices this Friday. These positions ae open to all Notre Dame undergraduates. For further information call the SU office at 7757. 
Because you ~nend college yoiJ are eligible : r, ,-. ·c·eive TIME, 
the ''-<xk:·s lead· 

I
;ng ne;,vsweekly at th~ lowest indi: 

I. 
vidual subscription rate, just 35<: an issue. That's BIG SAVINGS off the regular subscription rate of 59<: an issue and even BIGGER SAVINGS off the $1.25 
·newsstand price. And it's so simple to 
subscribe-just look for the cards with TIME and its sister publications, Sports Illustrated, Fortune, 
Life, Money and People. They are available at the college bookstore or from your local TIME representative: 
Kevin Rochford . 121 E. Navarre South Bend, IN 46601 (219) 233-5298 


., 
The Observer Tuesday , January 29, 1980 -page 6 
16. Clemson 13-4 305 17. Purdue 12-5 226 18. Indiana 12·5 221 19. Brigham Young 15-4 156 20. Kansas State 13-3 95
TUESDAY 

SC.Lb"'-t.LESSONS 
January 29,1980 

Spring Semester 
' ' .Track 
7pm-3am 

• Certified NASOS instruction 
!continued from page 8]

• Be certified before finals 
jump with a 44-feet 11 and three quarters inch distance.
COURSE FEE INCLUDES: 
Marshall Matt finished first in e Mask, fins, & snorkel the high jump. Rounding out the Irish win­
~you keep)" 
ning performances were Tom 
• All necessary rentals Bernier and Ribera. Bernier outdistanced second place fin­
MOLSO 

• All classroom materials· isher, Christian, in the 440-yard dash with a time of :~1.3
To reserve yourspot, come to 
seconds. Rih..-ra won the 300­
Jloom 2D in Lafortune Thursday, yard dash _wirh a :32_.1 finish .. Piane will send h1s two-mile 
Golden.Ale 

]an. 31st, at 7:OOpm. Ifyou are relay team to the Los Amgeles Times Meet this Friday. Anoth­
a$30......,.....""' .... 

er group of runners will travel F,or more info. Call to Kalamazoo, Mich. to com­
all night 

pete in the Western Michigan272-8607 or 272-9780 Invitational Meet on Saturday . 
. ••• • . J .. 

Doonesburv 
... 

Molarity 


Heavy 30 Collided 
impact 33 Columnist's 5 Rough tidbit 
sketch 34 Figure of 10 Woe-! speech 14 "Time and 36 -mode 
-wait..." 37 Benghazi 15 Type of is here 
rocket 39 Soul: Fr. 16 Rivers: Sp. 40 Atmospheric 17 Work on hazards 
copy 42 -atque 18 F1gure of vale! SPeech 43 The Twins 20 Autobahn, 46 Quod .n England follower 22 Mentally 47 Homily: abbr. 
weak 48 Ganymede's 23 Coward predecessor 24 "-was I ere ..." 49 Caustic wit 26 Twain's Tom 51 Mata ­
The Daily Crossword 
Monday's results· 

~C~L~A;;R7i (1\J E L T R E S HAGAI1.LAMA ROVE INANE.ALIT ABET CAR I C A T,U R E VENT T R E 'E. L I E IS T 0 
A T T E S ~~T A S s_-.
C 0 A X. A T A T11 IM E R 0 M ;, N C IE [). E R liD IE R ELEGIES • ELIIA ••• GARS !WORSENS CHEESE.f•ANE 
H E I R B U R L E S Q U E S A N D A R E E L II C : J~J_ 
FRET ALEE.LIANA 
EYRE LENT.ETHEL
All Rights Reserved 



by Garry Trudeau 

• • . Debate 
01/Jf/bllLSO a!/iU., IT 'rVf/MEAN, 
[continued from page 41 I'
TH& CIA IS WN/3X&CU-(}(ffHe lli/7 H&& 1<£0/?.ilB? CAPA8U3 ~ !T57!W&, KJYOIAJ, I KNOa/R&QUt5T HIS T~W 7Hf3 CIA Hcc,H£38! I 
for example Hong Kong and 
TlJN, MR. fAlli?I<JNG , ' A50VIfl Of ANY-;{j/6&LE!' !JAMMIT/ IT /5, COMRJ}llE-' 
Singapore, have succeeded 
LOZ!NSKY? fOR 7HE HEEl INVASION? THINe. \ FOR/3/VEM&. 
materially because of In­

C/A,TOO. I I I YVK, YVK!
/ 
/ 
\ dustriousness, pride, and a will ro succeed" by asking if poorer countries like Biafra had no pride and desired to starve. Opposition to Nor­ling's posiuon grew with his reply that ''A great many peoples are not very intelli­gent . . . and therefore cannot succeed." 
Walshe r:ebutted by saying that ''when human con­sciousness increases, (and) people take destiny intq their own hands," present inequa­

by Michael Molinelli 
lities have the potential to be 



ACROSS 29 Hgt. 

shifted. Audience support 

~as  clearly  with  the  latter  
VIeW.  
When asked for  a  solution  

to the present world situa­tion, Walshe referred to a two-pronged attack: first, to deal with the problem of power imbalance, he propos­ed a series of prolonged negotiations among econo­mic giants to correct the status quo; second, in regard to corporate influence a­broad, his solution involves an investigation of "alterna­tive modes of corporate in­volvement in foreign af­fairs,'' in terms of less permanent roles in their 
economic and political struc­52 Earth 21 Fish dish 
tures. 
Norling, on the other hand,
goddess 24 Strange 
53 Gaucho 25 -canto 
proposed moral courage in 
weapons 26 "-Marner" 
the tradition of Harry Tru­
56 Panic 27 Adjective 
mand in the leadership of the
60 Figure of ending 
country so that smaller in­
speech 28 Karl Maria 63 Line or cut von ­
ternational powers can re­
gain confidence in a U.S.
64 Wheat woe 29 Girl's 
65 Prospera's nickname 
government. Instead of 
sprite 30 Native of 
"playing to tie" as we have 
66 Kon Tiki's New Zealand 
done recently, the U.S. must
city 31 English 
adopt the Soviet Union's
67 Punta del -composer 68 "Gloria -" 32 Sample 
more aggressive strategy 
69 Electric 35 Poetic 
_and "play to win," he said. 
units feet 
38 Horrified DOWN 41 Figure of Pipe part speech 
2 Venice 44 Eternally, 

Basketball ­
resort poetically 3 Entrance 45 Begin, 4 Figure of for one 
speech 50 Naval VIP: 5 Limners abbr. 
APPoll 
6 Of kidneys 51 Waste maker 7 Lawyer: 52 Anesthetic 
1. DePaul (61) 17-0 1,220 2. Oregon St. 18-1 1,144
.abbr. 53 Empty 3. Kentucky 17-3 9888 Before Sat. 54 Musical 
4. Syracuse 17-1 911
9 Shaver work 
5. Duke 16-3 904
10 Mrs. Soames 55 Strayed 
6. Ohio St. 14-3 900
Forsyte 56 Point of 7. Louisville 16-2 88711 Mais oui, land 
8. Notre Dame 13-2 855
in Madrid 57 Relieve 9. St. John's. N.Y. 17-1 80512 Drudge 58 Piquant 
10. Louisiana St. 13-4 543 13 Actual pickle 
11. N. Carolina 12-4 513 being 59 Cupid 
12. Maryland 14·3 470 19 Super Bowl 61 ·Knock 
13. Virginia 16-4 403 segments 62 -pro nobis 
14. Missouri 15-3 369 15. Weber st. 18-1 347 

---------~~~---:-;--r.,-------------r~ 
The Observer -Sports Tuesday, January 29, 1980 -page 7 

Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame Sailing Club elected new ~fficers at their annual banquet dinner this past weekend. Jumorlane ~n?wn was chosen as ND's first female commodore; Bo Christian, vice commodore· Greg Fisher, team captain; Mary Cerny, secretary; Gerry Daus, treasurer; Margarita Cintra and Carol Silva, activities coordinators and John Horky, rear commod-

Sailing Oub elects new officers ore. in 204 O'Shag and interes(ed Aaron snubs Kuhn by absence NEW YORK (AP)-All-time Home Aaron was scheduled to season and Pete Rose of the received .the aw~rd Game time of the Notre p.m. at the ACC. The contest AM-6-i, as the first game that will not be aired on local television.  




d 
The 1980 sailing season will begin Freb.ru3:ry 9 an 1.~ at the 'Mid-Winter' regatta in Northern Illm~Is. The sadmg club holds meetings every Wednesday evenmg at 6:30p.m. 
members ~e wc:lcome to· attend. Sailing lessons on St. Joseph Lake will begm Sunday mornings as soon as the warmer weather approaches. 
run king Henry Aa~on snubbed baseball Commissioner Bowie Kuhn today, refusmg to accept an award from him for his 715th career home run, voted the greatest moment in the decade of the 1970's.. 
appear at the presentation sponsored by Baseball Magazine. Also on hand were Don Baylor of the California Angels and Keith Hernandez of the St. Louis Cardinals, voted the top ~erformers of the 1979 
Phi ade~hia Phil~i_es, who as top player of the ecade. 
ND-SMCbasketball tip-<>fftime changes 
Dame-Saint Mary's women's basketball game· tomorrow evening has been changed to 7:00 will be aired, on WSl':'lD, of a women-mens collegiate doubleheader. In the second contest, Notre Dame's men's basketball team will meet LaSalle in Philadelphia --a game 
Classifieds 
on Wednesday, Jan 23. 18742. Ask for Mike.
Notices 
Found: marking's. Found during 
identity. 
For Rent 

. ( 
Sept. 1980 Call 234-9364 
Rooms for 
rides. 233-1329 
lent condition. Can 
women students. 
on Ironwood Rd. Call 2n-D556 
day and 7 cents a mile. Rent-A-Car, 921 E. mishawaka, Ind. 255-2323 
to five students each. 
For Rent: Opposite New London Ironwood. 
or Faculty Member. 
·Wanted 
7850 
~-time \: 

... Lilllo 
TRAILERS FOR SALE OR RENT!continued from page 8] ROOMS TO LETFIF1Y CENTS DIVISION 

.common? All came over on the Mayflower? Not At the crossroads. Possibility of an early golf .quite, but they all will represent the East squad season in ApriL
',in the ALL-Star game at Landover, Md., on WASHINGTON BULLETS--Greg Ballard now a 
February 3. Coach Hubie Brown has molded starter Bobby Dandridge a sixth man as Mitch 
Motley's Crew into a ~entral Di':ision leader. Kupch~k slowly recovers from back injury.Will be tough to beat m the Omn'l..,('Ome playoff 
Father Time may be creeping up on coachtime. 
Motta's crew ... Elvin Hayes, Wes Unseld and 
HOP ON THE BUS, GUS DIVISION 
Dandridge are all over 30. 

All are playoff contenders at this point. Some HOUSTON ROCKEl'S--ms have been booin~ of them have as much chance at the title as oqe once-favored little man Calvin Murphy, an does leaving his tray off about one o'clock any guard Tom Henderson, acquired from Bullets to 
afternoon in the South Dining HalL run the offense has not worked out. Rick Barry SAN ANTONIO SPURS--Trading of popular is still deadly from 25 feet, and all-star Moses 
pivotman Billh Paultz for former ND star turned Malone leads the NBA in rebounding. 
vagabond, Jo n Shumate, has left a bad taste in INDIANA PACERS--All of sudden in conten­
the mouths of Hemisfair rooters. All-Star tion for a playoff spot after winning four in a 
George Gervinb leads NBA with 33 point row. Dudley Bradley, rookie ~uard from Tarheel average. Team has potential to score 140 !Joints 
country, scored a career-high 22 _Points vs. 
a night, but definitely did not atten the Kin~s last week. .Pwner Sam Nass1 was seen Pittsburgh Steelers school of defense. 
lookmg to the heavens for help earlier this SAN DIEGO CLIPPERS--Should Dollar Bill season. Funny, that's where reserve guard JoeyWalton return, he and Lloyd "World" Free (31 Hassett originated a few game-winning three­
ppg average) could clinch a playoff spot ea~ly. 
pointers this season... ' 

Thts is a colorful club that features a Bmgo CLEVELAND CAVAUERS--1. Unknown Mike(Smith), a Fatty (Brian Taylor) and a Spoon (Nick Mitchell of Auburn has been the glue holding Weather). 
Richfield residents to~ether thus far. 2. Loss ofNEW YORK KNICKS--And we thought Bill Camp£f Russell to mjured reserve list hurtsCartwright looked L-A-Z-Y agair:tst ND last playo hopes. 3. When do the Indians start 
season! He only averages 22.9 pomts alame. training camp? Second-year guard Michael Ray Richar son· of CHICAGO BULLS--From Addison to Oak Park, UNLV dazzles Garden crowds with his unca!. 1y the Bulls playoff chances seemed way off the passing ability. ~nd: ..shhh... Toby Kni~ht is mark. Then Artis came back, and with a gust ofdoing a workman-like JOb at forward. 
zeal, Theus and the gang began to feel... "Hey,
PORTLAND TRAILBLAZERS--What has hap-we still have a shot at it.'' pened to Jack Ramsay's bunch? When you lose HAND ME DOWNMY 16 of your last 17 road games, there isn't much 
WALKING CANE DIVISION 

to wonder about. Forward Bob Gross and guard New Jersey Nets, Utah Jazz, Denver Nuggets, Lionel Hollins only operate at half capacity due . Golden State Warriors, Detroit Pistons. to injuries. 
game.
rs. Wr te: Col~ ·Prell: Box 556, , Need a trial run before you Interview? 
1

Belleville, Mich. 11 now. 'No obllga-come make a Vz hour appointment to. ,
Khomeni si coming will trade 50 hostages Help! Des~rately need one DePau,
tlon. ticket. Call isa SMC 4629 practice Interviewing on videotape( Jan 31 ' 
for 4 DePaul GA tix call lshmo 3508 from 1-5. Sign up In the Career
Instructor wanted to IC'IICAT ct.. 

Desperately need 1 GA for Davidson. Ride need to Muncie.IN or vicinity on Fri. Development Canter, SMC.
Call collect {317) • 

Call 6747 Feb 1. Will share expenses. Call Amy 4-1-4156 Need 2 GA's to any remaining home JAF, . 7::,m~~~ basketball game, expecially navy. Call Section 1-A Morrissey What's been happening in your hie. 
$125 mo. CIIIMil'DM Got big news, or .possible n~ws if you
Brad at 1052. Thanks everyone for their attendance 
have the time to listen sometime. How

Saturday night. What a major Rager!!! IUSB 011111 ~-1need many G.A. Ux to DePaul. Man 'oout a raquetball game?
S7....... . -. 
EAH

fromJ.:fo will pay vary big bucb$$$. Interested In CILA? Come Wednesday to
lftlr5pM . -. . 

Call . 11:00 p.m. -1:00 a.m• the Bulla Shed at 10:30 and find out. wanted . lllftft.... 
-· .. ... -. 
.. ; -...-.':"/'...........--... --.... . -----.. --.. 
~ 

' . . 
Tuesday, January 29, 1980 -page 8
SRorts 
Coach Sepeta rentains optimistic despite grappler~' -weekend loss 
by Bzl/ Marquard us. which means a nine-point both wore their opponents Sports Writer difference in the score," ex-down physically in scoring deci­plains Sepera. · sive wins.'' 
''Considering our perform­"Don't get me wrong," ·cau­Ace heavyweight Tom Wro­ance over the weekend, I am tioned the veteran coach. "Con­blewski scored a first-period pin not really disappointed. Even sidering the injuries Dave had, to round out the scoring for the though we lost, I saw some. I never expected him to wrestle-­Irish. good signs." in fact, in the long run the rest On the short end of even 
The words of an eternal he got was probably a lor better shorter decisions were ) ohn optimist? than pushing him, particularly lglar (177) and Mike Tower 
Hardly, since there has nor with rhe National Catholic Invit­(167).;H"'"' a lot to be optimistic about ational coming up.·' "Iglar lost a tough see-saw 1hj, season for head wrestling Sepera's major concern at battle," describes Sepeta. "He 
coa, h Ray Sepera. Despite Not­this point is to get DiSabato just happened to be on the re Dame's disappointing loss to healthy and put together a wrong end when time ran out. John Carroll 26-19 in Cleveland contending lineup for the Na­And Mike lost his march after ·on Saturday, Sepeta is begin­tional Catholic Invitational, to time had run out because his ning to see some light at the be held back at John Carroll on opponent was awarded on rid­end of what has best been a Sunday, Feb. 3. ing rime point." frustrating runnel. Yet Sepera did have reason Iglar's season slate dropped 
.. If it's all right to be happy for happiness over the weekend to 8-9-l while Tower dipped to after a loss, I would definitely 0-3. describe myself as such," re­Sophomore Curt Rood strug­
'IfDiSabato had been

tlerts the fifth-year mar menrcr. gled before dropping his record ·'\XIe could just as well have to 6-9 on the year. while
in the line-up, I am sure

won the match on Saturday if a 158-pounder AI Mattaliano (4­coup!~ of rhings had fallen our 8-1) fell victim ro a more way. we would have experienced John Carroll foe. And very well they could Rookie wrestler Maurice Besh­
won the match.' 

have won, had it not been for a lian absorbed another loss at forfeit at 134 pounds. Senior 190 as his mark dipped to 1-14. rri-caprain Dave DiSabato, a despite the concern over his Records and scores aside, mainstay at that weight class premiere 134-pounder. Of the Sepera is still somewhat satis­for the Irish with a glistening nine marches the Irish wrestled fied with the results that are nor 16-1 record, was sidelined with against John Carroll, Notre on paper. a painful combination of thumb, Came won four and lost two ''Those that won wrestled rib and knee injuries which he other close decisions. very well. And those that lost Notre Dame forward Kelly Tnpuck.a, who has been resting suffered against Millikin and Freshman 118-pounder Mark were impressive too because comfortably the last couple days, may be released from Sa1n1 Wabash the previous weekend. Fisher wrestled well in scoring everyone worked hard. In past Joseph's Hospital today or tomorrow. Nevertheless, Tnpuc­The injuries to Disabato left the a default decision over his years we have nor looked well k.a wtll miss tomorrow night's game against LaSalle in depleted squad without a con­stronger Carroll opponent as he againstJohn Carroll, but we did Philadelphia, and wz/1 remain sidelined indefinitely. He is tender in that class, and the upped his season mark to 6-10. have reason to be proud this recot1ering from back spasms which sidelined him pn·or to Irish were forced to concede Tn-captains Chris Favox (142) time.'' Suturday 's win over Maryland. [photo by Doug Chnstian} 
that match to Carroll. and Mike Wilda (150) notched ''If DiSabato had been in the impressive decisions in improv­
line-up.I am sure we would have ing their season records to 10-4 InNBA won the match. John Carroll and 8-6-1 respectively. received six points for the "Both Favo and Wilda show­forfeit, and Dave would have ed a lot of maturity on the 
Limo division cruises toward playoffs
won at least three points for mat," remarks Sepeta. "They 
Now that the white stuff has returned to campus and snapped out ofour dreams of a mild winter, the time has come to focus our attention Mike
Tracksters look impressive; on more pertinent issues .. .like will there be a ­
Great Blizzard of 1980? or just how a far can 
Previte

Digger's bunchgo? But to pro basketball fans,
win all but one event an exciting dogfight looms on the horizon as the 
NBA reaches its midpoint. There are several getting old! Earvin (Magic) Johnson already an by John Smith well in the mile, especially if means, however, of making it down that playoff 1\II-Star, despite nagging injuries. Quiet Sports Wn"ter you consider that it's his first road.... off-season trade brought Spencer Haywood from 
mile since freshman year.'' CHAUFFERED LIMO DIVISION Utah exile and may be the key to Laker The Irish indoor track team Injuries have plagued the sen­With the precision ofa Mercedes and the fluid resurgence. Solid bench with ex-Cav Jim 
!~teed opposition from North­ior over his career at Notre motion of a Ferrari, these clubs thrive on team Chones and little known Mike Cooper. western University and Loyola Dame. efforts and always give the paying customers EASE ON DOWN THE ROAD DIVISION University of Chicago last Fri­Perry Stowe won two events their money's worth. Shoo-ins (so was Ronald Reagan) to make the day night in the ACC. It was a . on the evening. After winning PHILADELPHIA 76'ers--"We owe you ... " final 12. Only the first two teams in each 
non-scoring meet, but Notre the pole vault competition at a Best record in the NBA, Dr. J is fifth in scoring, coiifcrence draw byes, so these teams will most Dame showed a complete domi­height of 15-feet, he proreeded Caldwell Jones has become the premiere likely match up in the first round in some way, nance in the competition by to capture the long jump with a defensive forward in the league and su_(ler-soph shaoe or form. winning all but one event. jump of 21·feet two and three Maurice Cheeks averages eight asststs per PHOENIX SUNS--Paul Westphal may not lead 
The finest performance of the quarters inches. ~arne. Improvement of rookie Clint Richardson the league in scoring, but the ambidexterous evening wa-s turned in by the Piane was also impressed by tn the backcourt allowed GM Pat Williams to guard has the ability to dash court lengths to milt-relay team. The four man the performance of freshman pass up Pistol Pete. And of course, there's iurn a gan:te around. Great potential on paper -;quad of Bill Ribera, Jacques oole v;~ulter Steve Chror,ert. Ht> always the Doctor ... crash ... of dunk! with forwards Walter Davis and Truck (try and 
Eady, Chuck Aragon and ) im Piane was also impressed by BOSTON CELTICS--"Pass the word, the move me) Robinson, who has been in and out of Christian combined for an ex­rhe performance of freshman Celtics are back. '' The Green accomplished a the starting lineup. Ct'llenr early season rime of pole vaulter Steve Chronert. He one-season turnabout thanks to the ''Hick from . MILWAUKEE BUCKS--Yes, folks, the Schlitz 
.~:24. At one point, the second finished second to Stowe with a French Lick,'' Larry Bird, whose passing and plant will close down early today. It's time to piau.· Northwestern team was vault of 14-feet, six-inches. He rebounding have bedazzled opponents. Tiny bow towards Mecca (the arena where the Bucks lapped by the Irish. had cleared lesser heights with Archibald and Dave Cowens are rejuvenated play). Coach Don Nelson, currently recovering 
Early turned in another fine relative ease. under Coach Bill (No-Nonsense) Fitch. Does from a dis-: operation, has moulded this young, performance in the 600-yard The Irish swept the high anyone realize that the three-point shot was talent-laden team into a legit contender. Former dash. He covered rhe track in a hurdles event as the trio of invented by Chris Ford (l~ague leader in UCLA trio of Washington, Meyers, and fine I: 11.7 outdistancing his Dave Bernards, Tim Twardzik, percentage)? Marques Johnson compose formidable front­closest competitors, Rick Rog­and Bill Ribera led the competi­SEATILE SUPERSONICS--"It's not over ttl/ line. ) umor Bridgeman come off the bench to 
ers and Jan Kania, both of tion. the fat lady ... " Impressive road triumphs over score 24 points in win over Jazz last week. Notre Dame. Aragon and Jay Miranda Boston (double 01) and Atlanta last week prove KANSAS CITY KINGS--Complete turnabout 
The Irish also dominated the turned in their usual fine per­that last year's champ is no fluke. Sonics have from horrendous start to play 18-7 basketball long distance events. John Fil­formances as the former captur­what probably is the league's best guard duo in since December 1. Cast of unsung heroes osa, Mart Cam, and Charlie Fox ed the 800-yard · dash tn Gus Williams and Dennis Johnson. Forward­includes forward Scott Wedman, who quietly finished first, second, and I: 57.4, while the latter won the :enter)ack Sikma gave Ceftics and Cowens fits does his job night-in and night-out. Opposing third, respectively in the two . 1000-yard event with a 2:14.9. ln national TV with clutch shooting and coaches have nightmares trying to defense mile run. Marc Novak won the John Kuzan won the shot put rebounding. Style is consistent home and awav. playmaking ~uard Phil Ford and the lightning­mile race, followed closely by with a toss of46-feet 10 and one L.A. LAKERS--"Kareem 's Magic Show. " quick Otis Btrdsong. Kevin Kenny. half inches. Brian McAuliffe Awesome alternative to watching the hockey ATLANTA HAWKS--What do Dan Roundfield, 
Coach Joe Piane was espec­emerged victorious in the griple Kings skate on melted ice. Abdul-Jabbar was John Drew, and Eddie Johnson have in ially pleased by Kenny's peifor­undoubted the MVP of the 70's. Has he been [continued on page 7]
[continued on page 6]

mance, "Kevm ran extremely firound for 11 seasons? My gawd, I must be 



~; .'i 









