~ --------------------------------------------­
'NuclearStandoffBI~es' -Page 7 
VOL XIV, NO ­an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 1980 

~ardi(;rasforesees 
financial difficulties 
by Mary Fran Callahan dent, making a special appea­Staf!Reporter . rance at the meeting along with SBVP Bill Vita, sugg'ested Ste­The Mardi Gras Raffle is in pan Center as the location for 

·severe financial trouble and the the proposed dance. A council location of 70 percent of the member stated that Stepan was 
raffle books at present cannot booked through April 11. Roche be accounted for , according to then proposed the North Dining Mike Day, Mardi Gras business Hall. The event will be discuss­
manager. Appearing before the ed at the next meeting.Hall Presidents Council last 
''Guys get discouraged aboutnight, Day said that at this time the 3: 1 ratio so they sit in theirof year, raffle tickets usually rooms and drink,'' one memberaccount for $15,000 in revenue, commented. "In the dead ofyet this year ticket sales have winter, there is nothing else toonly generated approximately do," another commented. 
$4,000. As the event's prime revenue source, 95 percent of Financial matters surfaced for the tickets still remain unsold a moment when an officer while only 30 percent have been reported that an $8,000 admini­returned. strative grant to HPC is still in 

Bridget An·mand met with the women faculty members yesterday. See story below. [Photo "Somewhere along the line -[continued on page 2] by Beth Prezio]. something got messed up,'' Day commented. Citing a large gap of communication between raffle chairmen and section 
Americans slip out of Iran,elude officials
leaders, Day admitted, "We don't even know where the books are now." Day indicated (AP) -Six American diplomats sion and were spirited out in the been in ''friendly embassies,'' Det:ision-makers in Washing­
that the current raffle chairmen who escaped capture when the previous day or two under cover but the Canadians said all were ton and Ottawa decided to act are inexperienced. U.S. Embassy was seized Nov. of false Canadian passports. at the Canadian mission. This when they did because "we 
Using United Way as an 4 slipped out of Tehran after 12 U.S. and Canadian officials seemed to indicate that some knew everyday that the danger analogy, Day said he could not weeks in hiding, helped by the later confirmed the basics of the not originally at the Canadian was bet:oming greater," Cana­fathom why students would Canadian Embassy and an ela­report. State Department offi­mission apparently gathered 
'[continued on page 3]

borate ruse of false identities cials said theamericans had there later.
participate 100 percent on a and forged documents, it wasproject that has 30 percent of its disclosed(esterday.
contributions cover administra­Word o the dramatic flight
tive costs. Mardi Gras Raffle revenue has virtually no admi­from Tehran came as aihng 
Iranian leader Ayatollah Ruhol­

Aritnondtneets UJith plaintiffs
nistrative costs. Day said all lah Khomeini went on national

money goes directly to local charities such as CILA, Neigh­radio to make an emotional the women potentially involved of which three have already
by Mark Rust

borhood Study Program, and appeal for Iranians to support in the Notre Dame sex discrimi­exempted themselves. In the
News Editor 

INPIRG. their new president, Abolhas­nation suit. District Judge Allan Frese case, 34 of the approxi­san Bani Sadr. About 30 women faculty mem­Sharp refused the request. mately 130 eligible women had
"The students don't know The 79-year-old revolutionary bers attended a meeting last All faculty women -tenured exempted themselves as ofwhere that money goes," Day leader, in an apparent allusion night in Hayes-Healy to ask and non-tenured-are named as Monday.explained. "Yet, the raffle mo­to his heart ailment, called on questions concerning their pos­participants in the suit. Any 
Last night's meeting, sponser­ney is charity of the truest kind 

Iranians to remain ''without sible participation in a class women faculty members who ed by Committee W, a women'sit helps people right in the matter whether afear, no action suit against the Universi­do not want to be named in the group and sub-committee of theneighborhood.'' 
person comes or a person goes . ty, according to Bridget Ari­suit have until Friday to exempt American Association of Uni­
Before leaving the meeting The last medical report on the mond, an attorney for Davis, themselves. versity Professors (AAUP), was Day concluded his presentation hospitalized Khomeini listed Miner and Barnhill of Chicago, Over 130 women are eligible in an attempt to answer the ques­with a plea to the Hall Presi­him in satisfactory condition. who are representing the plain­two suits. The Ford suit will tions of those women who have dents to encourage students to There were new signs yester­tiffs. attempt to prove that the Uni­not yet firmly decided whether sell their raffle tickets by the day of friction between Bani Arimond's appearance before versity discriminates against to koin the suit. 
Feb. 16 deadline adding that Sadr and official backers of the the group was almost curtailed tenured women, while the Committee W sponsored ·tast they are tax deductible. Moslem militants holding some Monday when the University FPese case will attempt to prove night's meeting, accordmg to 50 American hostages at the asked the U.S. District Court to patterns of discrimination a­Chairperson Elizabeth Gilbert,
HPC members also discussed 

U.S. Embassy. grant temporary restraining or­gainst non-tenured women. because "we are a soundingthe possibility of presenting a 
The bold escape of a half­ders barring Arimond's firm There are six women eligible
proposal to the CLC regardmg 

dozen U.S. diplomats from from supplying information to to participate in the Ford suit, [continued on paf!.e 4]off-campus assaults occuring central Tehran caught ·the em­when students are returning bassy militants off guard Tues­
from the local bars. This pro­blem was investigated by the 
"That's illegal! That's ille­

day. Jackowski suspends LeMansparietals
Observer in a series the week of gal!'' one of the militants cried Nov. 30. Council members pro­to a Western reporter when told posed that each hall president 

of the ruse. by Pam Degnan severe action is being taken is that the partiesobtain statements regarding 
Ever since the militants seized Senior StaffReporter produced certain "blatant" instances such as any such incidents from his or .he embassy Nov. 4 to press the theft of 15 ND student ID' s that were left at
her hall's RA' s. HPC would 

demands for the return of the Male visiting · privileges • for LeMans Hall the parietal desk and the destruction of the fire then like to present these 
ousted Shah Mohammad Reza residents will be suspenaea this weekend due to extinguishers in the LeMans basement. The statements to the CLC. 
Pahlavi, there have been un­"a gross violation of party regulations," greenhouse next to the science building was 
Discussion then turned to the confirmed reports in Tehran according to Sr. Karol Jackowski, director of broken into and windows were shattered. campus social situation. Several that embassy staff members LeMans Hall. The Observer also learned last Jackowski said she feels since the hall hall presidents complained a­who avoided capture were hid­night that certain sanctions will be give~ to supposedly operates on a community-conscious bout the lack of diversions on ing out in the embassies of individual students who sponsored thefarttes. principle, it would only be "right'' to devise a campus and reasoned that this other friendly nations. Three different floors of LeMans he! parties punishment suitable for all the residents. lack was the cause for students Then, after Canada unexpect­that were ''noisy and definitely uncon.trollable,'' Jackowski said the Judicial Board will have the constantly going to the bars. edly shut down its embassy Jackowski said. "Apparently security was ultim~te decision concerning individual student Proposals were suggested to Monday and withdrew its small notified by some of the hall's residents who sanctions. remedy the situation which staff, the Montreal newspaper complained of guys knocking on their doors and ''Although I met with the Judicial Commis­included computer dating be­La Presse published an arucle breaking windows, and they then notified Dean sioner last night, no specific measures will be tween the dorms and a campus­in its Tuesday editions saying of Students Kathleen Rice and myself,'' said taken until the Board reviews each individual wide dance with a live band. some U.S. diplomats had been Jackowski. ' case which will be some time in the near 
Bill Roche, student body presi-harbored in the Canadian mis-Jackowski explain~d that the reason such future,'' said Jackowski. 



-------------~-----~ 


News in brief 
Judge rules against Soviet 
protest by longshoremen 
' 
NEW ORLEANS (AP) -A federal judge told officials of five dockworker unions yesterday that they cannot sanction or encourage a boycott of a Greek freighter chartered to load grain for the Soviet Union. The ruling came in the first court test of a protest by longshoremen in the East and Gulf coasts of the Soviet Union's invasion of Afghanistan. The boycott imposed earlier this month was intended to tie up Russia-bound ships and cargo at ports from Maine to Texas. Union lawyer Victor Hess said he was uncertain whether the temporary restraining order signed by U.S. District Judge Veronica Wicker imposed any prohibitions against boycott­ing by individual members of the International Longshore­men's Association. 
'Schnozzola 'breathes his last, dies at age ?6 
HOLLYWOOD (AP)-Jimmy Durante, the h_onky-tonk c~mic with the outsized nose whose artful m1x of clowmng, fractured English and heart-warming pathos endeared him to generations of Americans, died yesterday at age 86. The famed "Schnozzola," as he was known to friends and fans alike died alone in a hospital room where he had been confi~ed for three weeks for treatment of a lung ailm<·nt. Durante was admitted to St.John's Hospital in Santa Monica on]an. 7, suffering from acute lung congestion. The cause of death was listed as pneumonitis complicated by the effects of previous strokes, said Chris Thomas, a hospital spokeswo­
man. 

Divers continue tofind bodies in sunken ships 'holds 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. (AP)-Divers searching the flooded compartments .of a sunken Coast Guard cutte~ found the bodies offive more sailors yesterday' raising the aeath toll to six, and hope was running out for 17 others missing following a collision with an oil tanker. "As time goes by, the hope grows less," said Coast Guard Capt. Marshall Gilbert. Twenty-seven of rhe cutter's crewmen were rescued and one was found dead shortly after the Monday night collision. Some were found clinging to pilings of the Sunshine Skyway bridge, which soars over the bay's entrance. 

Weather 
~ostly cl?udy with a chance of light snow through tomg:ht. Silght _chance of light snow again tomorrow. Conunued col~ wtth lows today and tomorrow night zero to five above. Htghs today and tomorrow in the mid teens. 


CantP-_u_s------f 
lunch FAST PROGRAM SIGN-UPS, sponsored by world 
hunger coalition, RESIDENCE HALLS. 
12:15 pm SEMINAR, "mechanisms confining indigenous bactena to the gastrointestinal tract," dr. rodney berg, GALVIN AUD. 
1-3 pm ART DISPLAY, university of illinois graduate art works, ISIS GALLERY. 
3:30 pm SEMINAR, "home fire protection," federal emergency management agency, 356 FITZPATRICK HALL. 
4:20pm LECTURE, "electric properties of poorly metallic systems," dr. t. v. ramakrishnan, 118 NIEUWLAND. 
4:30 
pm SEMINAR, "approaches to the homogeneous catalysis of the hydrogenation of carbon monoxide,'' prof. jay 

a. 
labinger, 123 NIEUWLAND. 


dinner FAST PROGRAM SIGN-UPS sponsored by world hunger coalition, RESIDENCE HALLS.. ' 
6:30 pm MEETING, alpha phi omega fraternity, LAFORTUNE THEATRE. 
6, 8:30, & 11 pm FILM, "all the king's men," ENGR. AUD. 
7:30pm BASKETBALL, nd women vs st. mary's college, 
A.C.C. 
8 .l?m LECTURE, "lectures in philosophic logic," prof. saul knpke, GALVIN AUD. . . 
9 pm MEETING, knights of columbus, K OF C HALL. 

Wednesday,January 30, 1980-page 2 
Two-day schedule 

SMC sponsors sexuality -workshop 
by Mary Leavitt 

The Saint Mary's Counseling 
and Career Development Cen­ter will present a two-day workshop on human sexuality, open to the ND/SMC communi­ty. This workshop on sexuality will be broken down into three main topics: 1( The Medical Aspects of Human Sexuality; ' 2 . The Religious and Cultural Context of Sexual Values; and 
3 . The Emotional and Interper­sonal Aspects of Sexuality. 
Such subtopics as family plan­
. . . HPC 

[fontinued from page 1] 
the process of being allocated to the various dorms. 
Mock Convention Chairman Bill Kresse appeared before the council to distribute the guide­lines for bids on Convention concession stands. The bids ­due February 5 -will be awarded according to two cri­teria: the efficiency of service and type of sales detailed in the bid and rhe amount offered for the rights to sell at the conven­tion. 
Kresse also added that any organization may place a bid for a concession stand. 
'. 

OBUDseeks directorfor 
1980-81 
Anyone interested in applying for Ombudsman Director for the 1980-1981 school year should contact Jeff Hawk at 8764 by February 1. 
The Observer 

Night Editor: Ann "I'll get you, MAK!'' Monaghan Asst. Night Editor: Danny Tarullo, Mike Jans Copy Editor: Tom] ackman News Editor: Mike Shields Editorial Layout: Ann Gales Features Layout: Pat Byrnes Sports Layout: .John Smith, 
Tom Schu­ster, Chris Needles Typists: Carol Cornwall, Paula Shea, Katie Bigane, Kathy Murray EMT: S. Paul Selavko Proofreader: John Chaussee ND Day Editor: Keith Melar­
agno Ad Design: Anne Fink Photographer: Beth Prezio Guest Appearances: Ryan ''Patton next week'' Ver Berkmoes 
The Observtr [USPS 581 12111 Is . published Monday through Frtdly ex­cept during eum 11111 VICIIilll perilda. The Observer Is publisllld by the students If Nllll'l Dlllll llld Sltftt Miry's Cllllgl. Sublc•iplila lillY be purcillsed •• sze per yur rs• per
SMM~t~rl tn1111 The Observer. Jt.o. bel a. Netn 1>11111. 1nc111111 415111. s-et elm "::l pilei, .Ne!R DIN, ln­
dilnl . 
The Observer lr 1 llllllllllr If tfle Asslciltld Prla. All r...-lllw rigtlts lrl rlllrWd. 
nin~, sexual dysfunctions, vir-sendy .in Family Practice Resi" gintty as a sexual alternative, dency at St. Joseph's Hospital sexual anatomy, the sociologi-in South Bend. 
cal context of sexual behavwr Heading the session dealing with specific fo.:us on hetero-with the religious and cultural sexuality, masturbation and ho-context of sexual values will be mo~exuality as a normal parr of Mrs. Mary Hickner and Re­sexual development will also be verand John A. Struzzo. Hick­included in the program. ner has an MA in Psychology The workshop will be conduct-trom Western Michigan Uni­ed in an informal manner. Short versity and is a counselor in talks will be given followed private practice. In addition, immediately by breaks for small she has conducted numerous group discussions. The talks workshops on aspects of sexual­are in no way intended to be iry. Struzzo received a Ph.D. in lectures. The main goal is to Sociology from Florida State impart what is felt to be much University and did J?OSt gra­needed information. duate work in marnage and 
Professionals from the South family counseling . Bend community will be the. Dr. and Mrs. Ted Hengesbach speakers during the workshop. will be leading an informal Drs. Mark Sandock and Ellyn Stacker will conduct the session [continued on page 8] concerning the medical aspects of sexuality. Sandk•ck, who has ***************** made previous presentations 
* * 
concerning human sexuality at : Buy : SMC, is a graduate of the Indiana University School of * * 
Medicine and is on the teaching :* Observer :* staff at St.]oseph 's and Memo­rial Hospitals m South Bend. * * 
Stecker 1s a graduate of Michi­i Classifieds i 
gan State University College of Human Medicine and is pre­

:***************: 
ANY STUDENT INTERESTED? IN THE POSITION OF \~-c~'~f y.t\)\10~ $\ • 0v,s~v..'4~ fOV..'9~ -• ••• contact ROSEMARY7471 (applications due FEB I)  

"La Boheme" Chorus 


AUDITIONS 



for all ND/SMC students and faculty 
Thurs., Jan. 31, beginning 7pm 

Sign ups at Crowle~ Hall, Room 206 
N.D. Music_ Dept. stage production with N.D. orchestra and Chicago Opera soloists April 19, 2o 
AMERICAN LEGION PULASKI POST 
1606w. western ave. (go south on MAINE, turnr right on WESTERN) 
-

music, dancing, cheap drinks 
$1.00 admission liiD'S REQUIRED 


I--­
The Observer Wednesday,J~uarf 30,·~80 -page 3 
STATE CIIAIIIIIII 

Delegate selection· 
I OF DELEGATES

!!!!! !!!!! !'!!!!! -

Mock Convention n1akes plans 
AlA--~3' 
Alaau 10 Arilloaa 14 Arkauaa 10 t.lifomia 84 Colorado. 15 Conuecticut 17 Delaware 6 Diatrict of Columbia 7 Florida 25 Georgia 18 c.... 2 Hawaii 7 Idaho 11 Illinob 51 Indiaoa 27 Iowa 18 Itaau• 16 Kentucky 14 Lou1.aiaoa 15 Maine 11 Maryland 15 Haab$huaatu 21 Kicltietn 41 llinnuota 17 !Uaduippi 11 !Uaaouri 18 Montana 10 Nebraaka 13 Nevada 9 New Hampshire 11 New Jersey 33 New Mexico 11 New York 61 Rorth Carolina 20 North Dakota 9 Ohio 38 Oklaho.a 17 Oregon 14 Pennsylvania 41 Puerto Rico 7 Rhode bland 7 South Caro1iDa 13 Soutll Dakota 11 Tennu-16 Taxa a 40 Utah 11 Vermont ~0 Virsinia 25 Virgin Islands 2 Waehington 18 Weat Virginia 9 Wiaconsin 17 Wyoming 10 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Soviet use of its growing power a­~ainst Afghanistan significantly tncreases the danger of U. S.-Soviet military confrontation during the next five years, a top defense official said yesterday. 
Gen. David Jones, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Secretary of Defense Harold Brown said events in Afghanis­tan show the Soviets may be willing to threaten vital U.S. interests in the Middle East. 
''The possibilities of a mili­tary confrontation with the So­viet Union will increase signifi­cantly in the first half of the next decade,'' Jones told the House Armed Services Com­mittee. 
"I do not believe that means a bolt-out-of-the-blue nuclear attack on the United States," Jones added later. ''But I think it is more likely that they will try to intimidate us--make us blink." 
Jones said U.S. ability "to avert such a confrontation or deal with .it successfully it it comes" depends largely on Congress' decisions on Presi­dent Carter's $142.7-billion defense budget. 
Brown stopped short of de­claring that there is greater danger of =:t U.S.-Soviet military confrontatton. 
But he agreed with Jones that "the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan is a signal that the 
7:00 7:30 7:45 9:15 
Gaynor McCown 4-1-5407 
Kathy Jolm11011 6858 Bill Raby 277-5031 

by Barbara Bndges
Chrb Ledwidge 3267 Paul Riehle 3402 Greg Stuhr 3371 

Delegate select.ion will begin 
Jolm Campbell 233-6020 

today as the Notre Dame Mock 
Mary Kay Krauaa 4-1-5714 Ed De Marco 3770 

Republican Convention gears 
Pat Toomey •• 3340 

up for the 1980 political battles . 
Bill Roche 1769 

The Mock Convention will take 
Tony B1az 1211 Bob Dawson 1745 

place from March 5 through. 
Bob Van Hoomisaen 1166 

March 8, and delegate selec­
Debbie Beiber 6732 

tions will lastr through Tues­
Jolm Ritter 3344 John Cooney 1737 

day. -Convention organizers 
Rob Simarj 8622 

urge students of all ages,
Theresa Ann Brown 7920 

political persuasions, and inter­
Joe Babington 8213 Carol Silva 1323 

ests to sign up as delegates 
Hark Norman 3372 

from their home states. 
Paul Partridge 3371 

The 1980 Mock Convention, in 
Mary Beth Butler 4-1-5186 Dieter Schmitz 3246 

keeping with its 40 year tradi-· tion, is devoted to the political
T.J. Conley 3365 Hike Tranel 8856 

party which is not currently in 
office. Thus, it will be a 
Republican convention. 
The delegates will be lead by
Bill Carson 3370 
Greg Kourey 3269 

their respective state chairmen 
John Callaway 287-4635 

through caucuses which con­
Marlon Wil1uma 3169 

cern candidates and platform 
Jan Corey 6179 

issues. John Dillane, who is in 
Chris Ritchie 233-5828 

charge of the delegate and state 
Andrew Kottkamp 277-5072 Mille Wiedt 1007 

chairman selections, stresses 
Jorge Peirats 6869 

that one need not be a Repub­
John Cassidy 1475 

lican to participate in the Con­
vention.
Paul Julin 8855 
Donoa Teevan 6715 

The Convention organizers
Gina Giovannini 288-1376 Bill Howard 232-0550 

emphasize that this is a "course 
Mike Quinlan 8821 

in practical politics'' open to 
Frank Hopke 233-5828 

everyone. "No P,rior experience
John Marshall 3402 Jenny Durkan 232-5592 

is assumed," Ddlane said. 'If a 
Terry Woods 3072 

person has never done anything 
Tilll Hamilton 1166 

tn politics, this is a great way to 
get started. We're looking for a 
thousand people of all classes, all political persuasion~, to state with one voice what Notre 
Dame feels about 1980." 
There are spots for 997 dele­gates to the Convention, which will be held in Stepan Center. Opening speeches will be heard 


Danger ofU.&-Soviet 
conflict increases 
on Wednesday March 5, Thurs­
day is "platform night," FridayU.S.S.R. is willing to use its power directly, outside the Soviet bloc countries." 
NDPress
Brown also said any threat to Middle East Oil ' 'is a grave one to us and an even greater one" to allies in Europe and Japan. 


publishes 
Jones said the danger will be greater for the next five years because it will take that long to 


Faulkner 
develop U.S. defenses to make further military expansion too The University of Notte Dame risky for the Soviets. 

Press announced its publication The most direct U. S. re­1 of William Faulkner's Maydaysponse Brown and ] ones listed at a reception Monday. 
is development of a 110,000­This is the fi.rst time Mayday is man rapid deployment cambat available in a trade edition. The force that Brown said could be University Press published amoved into the Persian Gulf two facsimile edition of 125 copiesto three times faster than in 1977. They sold for $1.50

present forces. 

each. 
Carter's budget includes Although the trade edition is $300 million to begin develop­not a facsimile because it ment of proposed ex super­omits the colored capital letters cargo planes and 14_ special , of the original and sets the text ships to either have combat in type, it does include Faulk­equipment near a trouble spot ner's three watercolors and two or to be able to move it there black-and-white illustrations. quickly. These are the only watercolors 
by Faulkner that are known toPentagon officials say plan­exist.
ners are thinking of building 80 Mayday was written, illustrat­to 200 of the ex cargo planes ed, and bound in its originaland that the eventual cost of the form by Faulkner especially for planes and ships could be $10 Helen Baird, a woman hebillion. 

wished to marry. It is a fable Brown told the House com· about a young knight's quest
mittee another direct response for a perfect love. 

will be a bigger U.S. Naval This edition of Mayday in-presence in the Indian Ocean. 
. eludes an introduction by Car­
He said no decision has been 

vel Collins. He uses Mayday as made on whether that will an aid in interpreting Faulk­include bases for ships. ner's The Sound and the Fury. 
is reserved for Presidential nominations, and Saturday is set aside for vice-presidential nominations and acceptance speeches. In 1976, when 
'We're looking for a thousand people of all classes . . . ' 
Hubert Humphrey was drafted as the Democratic candidate, he addressed the Mock Conven­tion via. telephone. 
There are state chairmanships available to students from Mis­sissippi, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, North Dakota, South Carolina, and Wyoming. 
The Convention has tradition­ally drawn national attention: in 1976 Hubert Humphrey ·was drafted as the presidential can­:lidate and he addressed the convention via telephone. This year, the convention has flrm committments from Benjamin Fernandez and the perrenial presidential hopeful Harold Stassen. Other major figures in the national campaign are ex­pected, but none have yet given definate commitments. 
Sign up sheets are posted in the ND Student Government office, SMC Dining Hall, and the LeMans Lobby. 
• • .Americans 
[continued from page lJ 
dian Foreign Minister Flora MacDonald told a news brief­ing. "It was only a matter of time before the Iranians came to know about this." 
The State Department identi­fied the six who escaped as Mark Lijek, a consular officer; his wife, Cora Amburn Lijek, who was employed by the embassy as a consular assis­tant; Roger 0. Anders, a consu­lar officer; Henry L. Schatz, an agricultural attache; Joseph D. Stafford, a consular officer, and his wife, Kathleen F. Stafford, who also was employed as a consular assistant. The depart­ment did not release their hometowns. 
U.S* officials in Washin~ton, who declined to be identified, said the six were in Europe. They would not say where. 
A Canadian Foreign Ministry spokesman said the six were in West Germany, but their pre­cise whereabouts and travel plans were not immediately disclosed. 
Miss MacDonald said the A­mericans stayed in the Tehran homes of Canadian diplomats and flew out of Iran over the weekend with Canadian pass­ports, just before Canadian Ambassador Ken Taylor and the three remaining embassy staff members pulled out. 
The La Presse report said Ambassador Taylor had first. considered smuggling the A­mericans overland across the Turkish border at ·night but decided the risks were too great. 
Instead, the newspaper said, Taylor gradually re~istered some of the Amencans as ·Canadian Embassy personnel or changed their papers to enable them to pass as Ameri­can civilians, rather than Amer­ican diplomats. 
It said the Canadians had help 
from American "security servi­
ces" in doing this. 
Canadian officials said they chose not to disclose the escape after it took place for fear it would anger the Iranians and endanger the U.S. Embassy hostages. 
A dispute between Bani Sadr 
and the Iranian radio and 
t~levision system was the latest 
sign of potentially serious dis­
cord between the president­
elect and the embassy mili­
tants. 

The chairman of the five-man 
radio and television commis­
sion, Mosawi Khoeini, is the 
Moslem clergyman closest to 
the embassy militants, acting 
as liaison between them arid 
Khomeini. 
Bani Sadr had accused the 
state-run radio and TV of 
''malpractice, bias and enmity'' 
during the campaign that ended 
with last Friday's /residential 
election, and vowe to conduct 
a "purge" of "elements hostile 
to the country's values." 
The radio-TV commission re­
sponded Tuesday with a broad­
cast statement, monitored in 
Kuwait, challenging Bani Sadr 
to prove his allegations and 
accusing him of overstepping 
his authority in threatemng a 
purge. 
.don't miss this event!!!!!! A MUSICAL WEEKEND OF FILMS january 31 thru february 2 
THUR. "Meet Me in St. Louis" 7:00 & 9:15 FRI. "An American in Paris" 7:00, 9:15 &11 :30 SAT. "My Fair Lady" 7:00 & 10:00 
CARROLL HALL SMC ADMISSION $1.00 
MARDI GRAS DEALE1R'S SCHOOL SCHEDULE 

TUES FEB5
SUNifEB3


WEDJAN30 THURS·JAN 31 
FRI FEB 1 

SATJE82 
Howard-Badin 

Holy Cross-Augusta 
St. Ed's
Keenan
PangiJorn-Fisher 
Zahm 
(in Badin) 

. ; 
(in Holy Cross) 
. (in Pangborn 
' 
Dillon

Walsh-Sorin 
Lemans
Stanford 
Cavanaugh
Lyons 

lin Walsh) 
Mrr~>,;~i:...,.,
Al1omni
Lewis
Morrissev 
-
Utt -Campus 

(Regina
HolyCross (ND~
Carrol 
: ,. 
(in Alumni}

·'.1•
,, 
' 

-· . •. •'\. . ',
,, ,. ·., .· . ·.·,·,· '':J ·.·. ,.. '\ ,1,·.• '· 
' ~ . J I " ·r. I t
J I ' I { . ~ ( /
J I '.
•; : .~ r ( •' 

~ 
, ~
, 
,
,
, 
., I 
L 1 
1
, 
~
, 
' 


The Observer 


WSND to air psychology programs 
Wednesday,January 30, 1980 -page 4 




Testitnony continues in trial of Marine 
CAMP LEJEUNE N.C. (AP) -restricted pri!>oners to telling A major pros.ecution wirness only their name, rank and serial against Marine Pfc. Robert number. Garwood, accused of desertion He said he agreed to write and collaboration with the Viet­ami-American letters after days namese, said yesterday that of torturt" which left him feeling fear preempted the military "like 1 was always spinning '· code of conduct in Viernam. "After several days I fmally The testimony came as a hear­had ro give in and say yes, ing, which could lead to a would (writ!" rhe letters) 'be­court-martial for Garwood, re­cause at that point I believed I sumed after a 2 Vz week break. would be executed,'' Mehrer 
Attorneys for the 33-year-old said. Garwood, an Adams, Ind., na­But he said he later told his tive who returned to •he United captors he would try to escape if States last year after nearly 14 tht> opportunity arose and years in Viernam, contend Gar­would not hesitate to kill for his wood was merely one of several freedom. Mehrer, who lives in prisoners who cooperated with Colo ratio Springs, Colo., and the North Viernamese out of lists his occupation as disabled fear. veteran, said he continued to 
Gustav Mehrer, a former Ar­try to resist his captors, and he my private who was a prisoner refused to parallel his actions of war for nearly five years, with those allegedly taken by conceded under cross-examina­Garwood. tion that he wrote American !vf_aj. T.B. Hamilton Jr., pre­letters for the communists be­stdmg officer at the hearing and cause he feared for !lis life. the man who will recommend 
"I remember being told if I whether there should be a dido' t cross over I would be court-martial, asked Mehrer if 
executed," Mehrer, 30, said in a flat monotone. 
Mehrer said he was tortured, and he realized he could nor obey the code of conduct, which he knew of any American prisoners who completely cros­sed over, or deserted. 
"Just one," Mehrer said. He was not asked for a name. 
By Ke/11 Flint radio programs titled, "Spot­light Psychology,'' on WSND­
The Department of Psycho­AM. logical Services is presenung a The series, series of thirteen quarter-hour Sunday, Feb. 
which begins 3, at midnight, after the album hour, is pro­duced by well-known members of the American Psychological Association in conjunction with the Broadcasting Foundation of America. The first program will be broadcast at 11:45 p.m. on Feb. 5. The series will continue in consecutive weeks at these times. 


According to Patricia Cros­son, director of Psychological Services, the topics presented on the programs come up in therapy in terms of the stu­dent's own life as well as his/het ideals and concerns for the future. "We are pleased to be able to present these pro­~rams to the student commun­1ty. '· 
"We expect the tapes to stimulate thou htful conversa­tions. If a raw ~erve is touched by any of the subject matter' a 
student can make an apfoint­ment with the professiona staff at Psychological Services to process the problem," Crosson added. 
The purpose of the series is to enhance public awareness of the science and practice of psychology, and the impact that research findings have on stu­dents daily lifestyles, Crosson said. 
Many of the nations leading psychologists comment in brief on such persistent problems as pain, aging, dieting, parent­child relations, divorce, death, sex and intimacy. A selected list of reading materials on subjects covered will be avail­
, able from the Psychological · Services Center, according to Crosson. According to Make Tanner, program director of WSND, the 
11 :45 time-slot was chosen because of the popularity of other programs scheduled at that time. ''The program will provide a good study break for students,'' Tanner said. ''Most students have returned from the library by this time, and listen to the radio for relaxa­tion." 
"The advantage of these programs is that they are lighthearted and give a lot to think about," Tanner said. "We've all been there 10 one way or another. 
Theory inpractice 



SMCholds fair 
by Patty Rydle learned in theory. Throughout the second semes­
The Curriculum Fair is the ter the students create a simu­. culminati?n of a year lo~g lated school in Madaleva Class­· prograf!110 w~1ch Samt. Marys room 327, students choose their 
E~uc~uon maJors. P';'t 10to ap­subject of interest and work 
phcau~n the pnnctples they together in grade level g10ups learn 10 t.he classrooms .. to construct various learning 
Educatwn 302 Curnculum centers. Practice is a two semester An example of a learning course taught by both Dr. Skip center created last year is a Shannon and Prof. Karilee 
"metric box" -a wooden box Watson. The first semester one meter in height, width, and c~nters on the . theory ~nd length in which a small child 
can sit and study the metrichtstory of ed':lcauonal curncu­information inside.
!urns. Dunng the secon? 
Teachers from elementary
sem.ester stu~ents are able to schools in the South Bend areaput 10to practice what they have will be invited to come to the Curriculum Fair held sometime in May. They view the "Saint Mary's Elementary School" and buy the learning centers for 
... Arimond 
their own use. Last year's fair sold out and 
[continued from page 1] 
this y~ar' s fair is hoped to be as successful.
board." She also pointed out that Committee W is just as interested in soothing possible tensions that arise over the suit as they are in getting informa­
Opera
tion to the women about the suit. 
· 

Committee W has taken no official position on the suit, 

holds
Gilbert said. 
Arimond, who remained in town this morning to answer additional questions about the auditions case, said that she only answer­ed questions about lawsuits and class actions at the meeting. Auditions for the chorus of She declined to comment on "La Boheme" are open to all whether questions were raised faculty and Notre D.ame and St. about possible retaliation by the Mary's students. Auditions University for those who parti­will be held tomorrow nightcipate in the suit. starting at 7 p.m. at Crowley
She also declined to comment Hall of Music Sign-ups for on the involvement of the Equal times are in room 206 Crowley.Employment Opportunity Com­The fully staged performancesmission (EEOC) in the case, will be held April 19 and 20 at except to say that it has O,Laughlin Auditorium, with 
intervened in the Ford case and the Notre D arne Orchestra, and is considering asking the soloists from Chicago Lyriccourt's permission to do the Opera and New York City same in the Frese case. Opera.Both cases are currently sche­A children's chorus for Act II 
duled to come to trial in U.S. will also be organized. Int~r­District Court in late fall or ~sted faculty may also sign upearly winter. 10 room 206 Crowley. 

SCUBALESSONS 

Spring Semester 
Certified N~instru~~on; 1• Be certified before finals 
-----·-,


COURSE FEE INCLUDES: e Mask, fins, & snorkel (you keep~ 
• All necessary rentals e All classi'OQm materials 

TQ reserve your spot, come to ~oom 2D in Lafortune Thursday, Jan.3lst,at7:00pm. 


~--~--~-a~$~30deposU 

For more info. Call 272-8607 or 272-9780 



The Observer 





Carter moves to reinstate Selective Service System 
by Annmane Storz 

The Selective Service System of the United States will resume the registration of young men within the next several months as a result of President Carter's order, according to a release from the White House Office of Media Liaison. This move will speed the nation's ability to augment military forces in the e_vent of an e~ergency ~itua­
twn. · 
The threat to vital oil supply lines in the Persian Gulf, wh1ch has resulted from the Soviet Union's invasion of Afghanis­tan, precipitated this move. The decision is not linked to any shortfall in the All Volunteer Forces, which was never in­tended to stand alone in time of crisis. 
Actual registration will take place at the more than 34,000 localpostofficesthroughoutthe country. It has not been disclosed exactly who will be required to register, although the Military Selective Service Act creates a window of eligi­bility including all men between the ages of 18 and 26. 
The President does not have the legal authority to register women. This would require Congressional action, as would actual induction into the Armed Forces. The President does have the authority to resume registration as well as two additional measures--classifica­tion and physical examination of registrants--if he deems such action necessary. 
Registration per se does not 
involve local draft boards. It 
requires only that the registrant 
fill our a form giving name, 
address, date of birth, and 
parents' names and addresses. 
Methods of enforcing registra­
tion and the penalties to be 
imposed upon those who refuse 
to register have not yet been 
determined. 
This action is part of Presi­dent Carter's decision to review the organization, staffing and plans of the Selective Service in order to improve readiness. A report of the findings by the new Director of Selective Ser­vice, Dr. Bernard Rostker, w-ill be presented to the President on Feb. 9. This report will include recommendations which will be the basis for legislative and budget propo­sals supporting the revitaliza­'tion of the Selective Service 
System. 

Wednesday,January 30, 1980-page 5 

Among the many issues covered at last night's H.P. C. meeting was the financial instability ofMardi Gras. See page 1 for the story. [Photo by Beth Prezio]. 


Correction 
Monday's article tides ; 'Saint Mary's Sponsors Couples Workshops'' incorrectly stated that one hour credits would be given for these workshops. No credit will be given for the workshops. The Observer regrets the error. 
In protest against,Moscow 


Senate votes to boycott Olytnpics 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Senate voted overwhelmingly yesterday to urge all Ameri, cans, not just athletes, to boycott the 1980 Summer Olym­pics as a protest against the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan if the Games go on a scheduled in Moscow. 
The resolution offers an al, 

!.I.E. awards educational fellowship 
Mary K. Hawley, theology and modern language major, has received an ITT international fellowship to Mexico. 
Bruce Richardson, a classics major, who has passed the first screening for a Polish govern­ment With a full,ride travel grant, wdl know in May whether he has received the grant. 
Both of these awards are administered through the Insti, rute oflnternational Education, which also administrates the Fullbright awards. 
'Invaders' 
competttton 
•


contmues 
Last week's winners in the hall "Space Invader" competition were, from Howard, Pat McFre~dy, ~nd from Flanne~, John~ Sulhv3:n. The compeu­uon will connnu~ f?r several more ~eeks, conunumg to the ternative to a boycott by urging the International Olympic Com­mittee to cancel, postpone, or relocate the Games. But IOC members have already indicat­ed they will reject this request. The vote was 88 to 4. 
The four votes against the resolution were cast by Sens. Rudy Boschwitz, R-Minn.; 
Mark  Hatfield,  R-Ore.;  Ted  
Stevens,  R-Aiaska;  and  Paul  
Tsangas, D-Mass:  

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., a Democratjc presi­'dential hopeful, did not vote although he was in a Senate~,. office building conducting a•. news conference. • 
Kennedy has said he sup­ports President Carter's posi­tion on the boycott, but' consi­ders it a symbolic gesture of little value. 
Unlike a similar measure adopted 386-12 last week by the House, the Senate resolution does not set a umetable for a pullout of Soviet troops from :Afghanistan No further action is expected on either resolution. Each is advisory and does not have the force of law. 
Secretary of State Cyrus Vance is asked in the Senate resolution to redouble efforts to convince America's friends and allies to cooperate in supporting 
~:m~~·.. policy on the Olympic 
The resolution also urges the IOC to give urgent considera­tion to moving the Summer Olympic Games to a permanent home in Greece, "the country of their origin.'' And it calls for the Winter Olympics to be moved to permanent quarters in the future. Some senators are suggesting Switzwerland or 
Austria as possible neutral 
locations. 
The key paragraph specifical­ly urges "that, should the International Olympic Commit­tee fail to adopt the proposal of the United States Olbmpic Com al, no American team should participate in those games and no American should attend them in any capacity." 

The U.S. committee has said it would follow the president's lead and ask the international committee to move, postpone or cancel the games. 
Sen. Frank Church, D-Idaho, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee said the resolution, approved in a 14-0 committee vote Monday, in­cludes a vote of confidence in America's athletes who are being asked to give up the goal of a lifetime by foregoing participation in the Olympics. 
He noted that unlike the House resolution passed last week, the Senate measure does not set a Feb. 20 deadline for Soviet withdrawal. Sen. Bill Bradley, D-N.J ., the only member of the current Congress to have won an Olym­pic gold medal, said boycotting the Games is justified in the 
interest of maintaining  world  
order.  
He  said  the  boycott  could  

reemphasize the athlet~, and eliminate much of the politics and commercialism that he said have surrounded the Games. 
Students 
may submit 

raffle money 
There will be a 'Mardi Gras raffle ticket pick-up tonight, at 6:30p.m. in Stepan Center. for all money collected t~us far. Subsequent collecw:ms are planned, so every~n~ IS urged to sell any remammg books 
finals m March.•• ,.,,, .,zpr•'.~g!~i.?! ..l!~}'_!D.E~~~.l$_1?!91?2~-;.... ,..~t·~:~,.,~!~~C:,~~-"" .,_,__..,.,, ....~ .. 

Who's Hughes? 
First to develop a synchronouSsorbit satellite, Syncom, Initiating the whole era of space communications. 
First in high--technology electronics. 
Your first employer after graduation, perhaps! Before graduation, ask your placement office when Hughes Aircraft Company's recruiters will be on campus. 
r------------------~ 
I I 
i HUGHES i 
I I 
L------------------J
Creating a new world with electronics 
AN EQUAl OPPORTUNilY EMPLOYER M/F 
( 

Interview with Schlumberger! 
Schlumberger Well Services, a world leader in providing highly technical services in the special­ized field of oil and gas evaluation, is coming to campus to discuss your career opportunities in the vital search for energy. 
YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO ATTEND OUR INFORMATION MEETING 

ON~WEDNESDAY __
.\FEBRUARY 6 
For additional details, please contact your Placement Office. 

CAREERS FOR THE COMING CENTURY 
· 

'.:·;<1-....:~R.ii!f'..---~~..--.;..··-···~_:_-~---·-~·· ·-·-'"' 
, .~ 1 
1 
,
' 
1 
1 1 
, 1 
1 
, 
1 
1 
1 
i 
1 
1 
1 
-
--~~--~~--~~~--~~--~~----~--~------~----~~~~--~--~----~--------~----~~--------­






U.S. should boycott Games ifheld inMoscow 
Last week, President Carter issued an ultimatum re~arding the Summer Olympic Games: Unless Sovi~t troops wtthd~aw from Afghanistan by Feb. 20, the U.S. wdl lead supportmg nations in an effort to relocate, postpone or cancel the Moscow ~ames. The Observer supports this resolution, and agrees wtth Carter that the U.S. should boycott the summer games entirely if relocation and postponement attempts prove futile. . 
We realize that a widespread boycott sponsored by the 
U.S. 
would put the future of the Olympt£ movement in serious jeopardy, but the Olympics at'e worth far less than the cost of appeasin~ the Soviets. By participating in the Moscow Olympics wtth Soviet troops in Afghanistan, the 

U.S. 
and other free nations would stamp a seal of approval on the invasion . at least in the eyes of the Soviet leaders and their people. Rescheduling or boycotting the ~ames would effectively punish Soviet aggression in a nonmilitary manner. 


Opponents of such a boycott claim that the apolitical spirit of the Olympics must be maintained. The Oly~pics ha_ve traditionally been thoughtto somehow transcend mtern~tiO· nal politics, bringing athletes and nations together 10 a peaceful atmosphere of healthy competition. But the presumed apolitlcality of the Olympics is little more than a myth left over from ancient Greek days · when wars were actually suspended to allow the games to proceed as scheduled. Rarely in the twentieth century have the Olympics risen above the rancor of politics. They have been cancelled for war three times· in 1916, 1940, and 1944. They have been the site of the world's hugest political propaganda shows-most notably, in 1936 when the games wen; held in Hitler's Nazi Germany. More recently, the Olymptcs have been plagued by terrorist activities (Munich, 1972). . 
Individual athletes as well as nations have used the international center-stage provided by the Olympics as a political so~pbox. In 1968, American sprinters John Carlos and Tommy Smith held their fists up in a "bfack power" gesture as the "Star Spangled Banner" was played. In 197~, 28 African nations boycotted the Montreal summer games tn protest of the situation in South Africa. . 
The Olympics are political, and Soviets are acutely aware of this fact. Soviet leaders reportedly have told their citizens that by holding the Olympics in Moscow, the world is recognizing the legitimacy of the Soviet government. The free world cannot allow the Soviets to enjoy the propaganda victory that universal participation in the Moscow Olympics would bring. 
Boycotting the Olympics on political grounds is a dangerous 
precedent to set, but It is one that must be set if attempts to relocate the Olymptcs fail. To avoid similar pol~tical boycot~s in the future, we recommend that the International Olymptc Committee establish a permanent Olympic site in a traditionally neutral country, such as Switzerland. 


Wednesday, January 30, 1980-page 6 
In discrimination suits 



ND uses tactics ofharasstnent 
Madonna Kolbenschlag 
Last Monday lawyers for the University of survive -but as it turns out, not as 111any women 
Notre Dame tried to ambush the constitutional as they had hoped are opting out. Morc:o~er, 
rights of our women faculty--but a watchful some peer institutions have recently lost stmdar 
Indiana judge cut them off at the pass. suits (e.g. Brown University). 
The factsof the case are the·se: last December, So we can expect that Notre Dame's tactics 
after the district court certified both the Ford will grow more desperate. Because ignorance is 
and Frese discrimination suits as class actions, the best line ofdefense, we can expect that their 
several women suggested that since approxi-tactics will resemble those of the Ford Motor Co. 
mately 130 women were included in the class, an in the Pinto case: every attempt will be made to 
informational session which was open to all exclude crucial information and to invalidate 
concerned might be in order. Committee W of critical sources of information. Most certainly, 
the local AAUP chapter was the logical agency to attempts will be made to isolate members of the 
sponsor such a session and Prof. Liz Gilbert, class, even discredit them. 
chairperson of Committee W, volunteered to The chief signature on the afiidavtt accom­contact the lawyers for the plaintiffs with the panying the re9uest for the restraining order request. Subsequently, Ms. Brid~et Arimond, was that of Asststant to the Provost, Sr. John ·attorney with Davis, Barnhill & Mtner, co-coun-Miriam Jones--appointed some years ago by the sels for the defense, attended an informal administration as a "watchdog" for women's informational, question-and-answer session at a affairs. It is interesting to speculate whether regular Committee W meeting. Notre Dame would be facing this present 
Since so many women in the class were unable litigation ifover the years she had been less of a 
to attend the session, Prof. Gilbert asked the bufferin tablet and more of an advocate. But 
attorney to put a summary of the discussion then she probably would have been fired, or 
points in a letter which was later circulated to as resigned in frustration. The names of Dean 
many of the 130 women as could be reached. Isabel Charles and Assistant Provost Katherine 
Several women suggested a follow-up session, Tillman are the only other names that appear in 
which was held last night. the affidavit. 
I personally ;ound the attorney's comments It is evident that no one, least ofall our women 
remarkably low-key, fair and objective. Since administrators, has yet impressed the Golden 
that session I have spoken to other counsels Dome with the wages of mstitutional sin, of 
experienced in class action elsewhere in the tolerating sexism. We can expect Notre Dame to 
U.S., and I received substantially the same be fanatical in their opposition to this suit 
information provided by Ms. Arimond. Her because they are guilty--and worst of all, 
conduct was in keeping with the conduct unconscious. 
demonstrated heretofore by the plaintiffs them-The world should know that the class action 
selves, Josephine Ford and Dolores Frese, who suit is more than a response to the "revolving 
have been incredibly patient, courageous and door," to problems of tenure, promotion, 
respectful of others' rights through this whole renewal, salaries, pensions, leaves, nepotism 
ordear. conflicts, departmental assignments. It is an 
Meanwhile, back in court, the University accumulated response to a mind-set--as old as requested a "gag" order, enjoining all parties to Notre Dame, and older, and totally unacceptable the class action {the plaintiffs, their counsel in the contemporary era. and agents) from communicating orally or in Lovers of du Lac, as well as the circling writing with members of the class. In effect, it vultures overhead, have no doubt that the class was an attempt to prohibit all communication action suit--not the Campaign for Notre Dame·· betweeci~. class members and class counsel may be the key to whether Notre Dame will ever during the opt-out period and to substantially be a University in the true sense of the word. If restrict communication thereafter. The Univer· the suit fails or is lost, Notre Dame faces the siry further accused the plaintiffs attorney, prospect of becoming one of the most expensive Bnd~et Arimond, of communications that were and elitist educational dinosaurs in the land -an "sohciting" and "misleading." "untouchable" for women and minorities, for 
The judge found no evidence for the men and women of vision. If the present accusations against Ms. Arimond, and no situation continues, everyone loses -especially reason to grant the restraining orders. He found the students. several reasons for not granting the request: the How well I remember, in 1973, my ftrst year constitutional rights of free speech, freedom to as a faculty member, wondering who those disseminate information, freedom of assembly "crazy ladies" were who were talking about and the right of due process, which implies: filing E.E.O.C. complaints. After seven years access to counsel. on Notre Dame's faculty, I'm inclined to agree 
What we have seen this week is a blatant . ·with the old Greek proverb: ''Those who are tactic of harrassment on the part of the· awake live in the same world. Those who sleep University lawyers, an attempt to create even each exist in a separate world." ~ more anxiety among women faculty than they Meanwhile, we must wait and see what Notre have already experienced. , In rejecti_ng the Dame will think of next--perhaps, exile for all University's request for a new court nottce, the the female Sakharovs? judge made specific reference to the inevitable "confusion" that could result. Sr. Madonna Kolbenschlag is an Assistant 
Notre Dame knows well that its best defense is Professor ofAmerican Studies, a member ofthe the ignorance and fear of its faculty women. It South Bend Commission on the Status of was perhaps counting on the conditioned Women, andauthorofa recent book on women, "cauuon" that females d~velop here in order to Kiss Sleeping Beauty Goodbye. 
administration of either institution. 
Editorial Board and Department Managers 
The news is reported as accurately and 


-The Observer._ 

as objectively as possible. Editorials Editor-in-chief ....... .Rosemary Mills Sports Editor ..................Mack Perry represent the opimon of a majority of Managing Editor•......... Diane Wilson Features Editor .... .Kathleen Connelly &x Q Notre Dar~~e, IN 46JJ6 the Editorial Board. Commentaries, Editonal Editor .............. Ann Gales Photo Editor .............. Doug Christian opinions and letters are the views of Senior Copy Editor .........M. Onufrak 
The Observer is an independent their authors. Column space is avail­Executive News Editor .. .... Mike Lewis B11siness Manager ..... ...Steve OdJaod newspaper published by the students able to all members of the community, News Editor .................... Mark Rust Production Ma114ger.... .]ohn McGrath of the University of Notre Dame du lac and the free expression of varying News Editor ................. Mike Shields Advertisi11g M.anager ........:Bob Rudy and Saint Mary's College. It does not opinions on campus, through letters, is SMC News Editor........ Margie Brasslt· Controller..................Kevin Manion nec~sSarily reflect the policies of the encour~d .. Circ11Uuio11 Mauger..... .Greg Hedges 
.. '. . •'• . .
' ' "": ~ ,•,• ....::; ....".~ ~._ l ' •• 


------~­

~-~­
------------------.------------­
The Observer Features Wednesday, January 30, 1980-Jhlge 1 
,,~ ~b'OPF ~··~ 
''.. , ft}S.&ltt.i' 6l..L)E. s.rrr~s I 
R::e. ~ f:SA6\'-~~~~ \~~MWTIME I u,A.\/S LEFT ~ ca..tfLAJ#Jt~ VJU••\.. -n\€.'1 ~ 1Uete. ~ISS WILL WE. $~~ a)e.s WIL-L~ t>-'t41'/ OJl-"1 e=:. 
-A t>-~~AtJ-J.la.le. t:;\\E -n.\E ~A.t-1t> ~t> Ot-l ~~~~ L~lt> \L:>Lt> tN YaJ 
'::> .. 
,, 
r. 

The Observer Wednesday,January 30, 1980 -page 8 
• • • Workshop 
[continued from page 2] 

discussion dealing with the sexuality, but as Pat McGinn, 
emotional and interpersonal as­,director of the Counseling and 
peers of sexuality. Hengesbach Career Development Center 

received his Ph.D. in theology commented, "It isn't that they 
from Notre Dame and has given (the church) don't want sex 
various lectures and workshops talked about; they just don't 
in the area of sex education for want the Pope and official 
adults. Mrs. Hengesbach is the teachings contradicted." 

director of the Woman's Center The workshop will take place 
of the South Bend YMCA and is on the weekend ofFeb. 2-3. The 
a past member of the Com­Saturday session will run all 
munity Sex Education Task day from 9 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. 
Fon:e. The Sunday session will be an 
The facts and information afternoon one, beginning at 2 given will not be from the p.m. There will be breaks for Catholic viewpoint although the lunch and refreshments. Catholic teachings on various The cost of the workshop is $5. subjects will be presented. Interested students may contact Many Catholics feel that their the Saint Mary's Counseling rdigion has been a,n obstruction and Career Development center in k·arning more about human at Ext. # 4-1-4835. 
Group offers pen pals 

Thousands of college students resulted in personal visits be­111 more than 100 countries tween correspondents. overseas are seeking American There is an abundance of pch friends of the same age and </.ppiicants from ThirJ World 




Energy budget to stress diversity 
111terests on American college areas of Africa, Asia, and South 
and university campuses. They America, as well as from WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­-More money for conservation, those tax credits-will cost thehave written ro Letters Abroad, Europe. This "one to one" 
a New York clearing house for exchange can provide students dent Carter's 1981 energy bud­for solar energy, for synthetic Treasury $739 million in 1981. 
get lays out an ambitious fuels and fustion. Last year, Carter said thatinternational adult correspon­with a new understanding and -A reduced emphasis on non· solar and other renewable ener­clance which matches Ameri­appreciation of the feelings and strategy to cure America's ap­fusion nuclear research. gy sources ought to provide 20cans with applicants from opmions of their counterparts in petite for imported oil. Coupled 
abroad other lands. Many college with sharp increases for de­Carter's latest strategy takes percent ofU.S. energy needs by We hope you will want to correspondents have written to fense, the energy plan signals a into consideration the ongoing the year 2000. I the 1981 participate in this program tell us what an inriching experi­two-pronged approach to secur­crises in the Persian Gulf where budget, Carter proposes a 6 
percent increase in solar spen­which has linked 1.200.000 ence they have had. ity U.S. fuel supplies. turmoil in Iran and Soviet 
Americans and their counter­There is no charge for this Overall, the Carter energy ambitions expose the U.S. vul­ding, to $656 million. parts overseas since it was service but a contribution of at plan provides no quick solution nerability to uncertain supplies "The administration is finally founded as a non-governmental least $2 to Letters Abroad' to to one of the nation's thorniest of foreign oil. recognizing that solar energy is non-profit educational effort in defray its expense is suggested. problems: assuring the avail­Carter is seeking $8. 1 billion a technology for today and not 
tomorrow,'' said Sen. GaryIt) 52. For immediate action appli­ability of fuel. But it includes a for energy programs in 1981, Hart, D-Colo. an advocate ofAlmost all applicants for cants should send name, shift in priorities that Energy eight times the billion-dollar solar energy. 
American friends correspond in address, age, interests and Secretary Charles Duncan spending set in 1971, prior to English, but on occasion each hobbies to Letters Abroad at called the start of a "20-year the Arab oil embargo that But other solar advocates were 
unimpressed. "We've got afriend writes in the other's 209 East 56th Street, New York, transition to energy diversifica­brought an end to cheap and 

language to improve his facil­N.Y., 10022, enclosing a self­tion.'' ity. Many exchanges have addressed stamped envelope. The shift will mean: 

Xerox sales teams don't just knock on doors. They determine our clients' needs and work out solutions. Xerox has a unique sales training pro­gram which gives our people the competitive edge they need in arapidly changing marketplace. Xerox sales teams are a study in aggressive leader­ship. And they built a path for your advancement. 
At Xerox, we know how to reward bard work. Our sales teams advance quickly and enjoy their success. And, of course, sales come easier when you work for 'a leader. Our equipment is well known for ahigh degree ofdependability and our clients know that. They also know that they get 
. what they want when they need it. 

Graduate into a Xerox sales career. We're your information center of the future. 
Check with your college placement office for campus interview dates and schedules. Then talk to our campus representatives about careers that can't be duplicated. 
XEROX 
Xerox is an affirmative action employer (male/female). 
) 

plentiful oil supplies. 

In drawing hts $616 billion 

noted Bill Bergman,
dent marked defense and ener­

Industries Association.
gy for the two biggest increases 
Nuclear industry

efforts to assure U.S. fuel 

supplies. 

cutting atomic research.
The energy plan may mollify 
critics who have charged Carter 

with ignoring conservation as a 

way to cut fuel consumption. 

clear Energy Council. 
Caner proposed slowing de­
"Right now the only two

pratical means we have for
meeting the energy needs of
the nation are coal and nu­
clear."
gas-cooled reactors. 

year at Three Mile Island. 

that would burn hydrogen from 

bombs.
water to create electricity. 
While cutting research for
.But fusion is decades away 

so-called ''second-generation''
and Carter said in his budget 

nuclear power plants, Carter
message, "Conservation is the 

upped research by 23 percent
quickest and cheapest step we 

into nuclear fusion, the dream
can take to confront our energy 

of turning water into power
problem." 

what in
bomb. ,
Carter seeks $1.67 ·billlbn -a
conservation, requesting a total 

12 percent increase-for fossil
$8)) million in 1981. 

fuel programs, including re­
Included is $50 million for an 

search into synthetic conversion 
advertising campaign, copied 

of coal.
Some of the spending drew

Republicam objections 10 Con­
prices already have established 
conservation in many house­

holds. Nearly 6 million tax­

House Energy and Power sub­
payers claimed $600 million in 

committee, said the budget
tax breaks last year for instal­

spelled government intrusiOn
ling a range of conservation 

into energy decisions which
devices, everything from storm 



The Observer 
SMC seeks support for mission 
by Deidre Dalton 

The Saint Mary's Spiritual Committee is sponsering a Stu­dents' Mission Care (SMC) to promote support of the Holy Cross Sister Mission. In a drive to extend Cambodia awareness to other countries. the SMC will be asking Sr. Mary" s students and faculty to ''think globally and act locally.'· This will be done on February 4 and 5. 
Twenty Holy Cross Sisters and three lay volunteers are now working in Brazil as missiona­ries. Sr. Francis Bernard, who is in charge of the Holy Cross missionary program here, is presently visiting; in Brazil. Sr. Mary Ann Eubbmg, her secre­tary, is now interviewing for potential missionaries who are needed in Brazil and Uganda. 
There are also fifteen Holy Cross Sisters in Bangladesh, six in Thailand, five in Uganda and four in Israel. The Ststers· and volunteers do a wide variety of work which includes pastoral work, social work, parish work, carechetical work, and work with the retarded. Six of the Sisters are presently ·working in a school in Sao Paulo, a very impoverished section of Brazil. 
Edward W. Krause, athletic director at the University of Notre Dame for more than three decades, has received the Jam­es E. Armstrong Award from the Notre Dame Alumni Associ­ation. 
The award, named for the former secretary of the 62,000­member association, honors an employee of the University ''who has performed outstand­ing service and demonstrated qualities in his personal life that reflect the high principles of the University.'' 
Krause, who celebrates his 67th birthday February 2, car­ried athletic laurels from South Side Chicago's De LaSalle High School to Notre Dame where between 1931 and 1934 he gained All America honors in basketball and football and earned a letter in track. 
Following graduation he coached basketball and football at St. Mary's (Minn.) College, then at Holy Cross and finally served six seasons as head basketball coahc at Notre Dame, compiling at record of 98-48. He was also football line coach for six years. 
Krause was named assistant athletic director to Frank Leahy in 1948 and athletic director in 1949. Over the years he has been recognized often for his civic and humanitarian as well as athletic contributions. He is 
Wednesday,January 30, 1980-page9 

Members ofN.D. 's infamous fraternity materialize in many places. [Photo by Beth Prezio]. 
.

Sports Brtefs.__ 
Hockey tickets remain available 
While Saturday's Notre Dame-Wisconsin hockey game at the ACC has been sold out, there are a few tickets remaining for Sunday's game against the Badgers. Remaining tickets can be purchased at the ACC's Gate lO ticket windows from 9 
a.m. to 5 p.m. during the business week. Both of the weekend games will face off at 1:30 p.m. 
The Sisters are financially supported by donations from their own congregation and have been given money in the past from the Mardi Gras Committee and from a Saint Mary's volunteer organization. The Holy Cross Sisters missiOn has been in · existence since 1947 and has had lay volunteers since 1960 although Sr. Mary Ann pointed out that there was a gap of five years when there were no volunteers. 

•Saint Mary's students and faculty will be asked ro pledge a dollar a month for a period of four months. The pledge will be collected monthly with the idea of promoting conunued aware­ness. The theme is "I care." Buttons and a newsletter on the Holy Cross Mission happenings will also be distributed by the Student Mission Care Commit­tee. 
'Stoly' market suffers 
(AP) With a vodka war escala­ting and more and more American tipplers saying 
·nyet" to Stolichnaya, a full­page ad appeared in sqme newspapers yesterday addmg, ''Did the Russians miscalcu­late?" 
It pictured two bottles of booze, a fifth of Stolichnaya with the flag of the Soviet Union protruding from the top,. and a bottle of Tsingtao (pronounced 
"chingdow"), a newly arrived Vodka from China. "America's love affair with Russian vodka appears to be on 
in assists with 62 and ranking

[continued from page 12] 
second in scoring with a 15.7 

Even with Brooks' efforts, average. Junior Kevin Lyman the Explorers have had a rocky fills out the lineup, averaging season, coming into the contest nearly eight points a game. with a 10-6 record, including "LaSalle is a phystcal team Monday's 78-59 win over Dela­that hustles a lot," notes Phelps. ware. "They are not that tall, but they 
Joining Brooks on the front make up for their lack of height line is 6-7 senior Mo Connolly, with their hustle and aggressive who averages 13.4 points and play around the basket. 
5. 1 rebounds per game. Junior ''They like to use tlhe fast Stanley Wil!tams mans the break, and we'll need a good pivot, averaging 9.1 ppg. defensive effort to stop them. 
Senior Kurt Kanaskie heads They're not a very deep team, the backcourt, leading the team but they are solid and experi-
From alumni 
Krause receives award 

&/ward W. Krause 
a Knight of Malta, one of the highest papal honors a Catholic lay person can receive, and there is a medical research fellowship in his name at the City of Hope National medical Center. 
Much in demand as an after-dinner speaker and mas­ter of ceremones, Krause has been synonymous with Notre Dame sports for 31 years. He is a member of the National Basketball Hall ofFame and the Honors Courts of the NCAA and of the National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame. 
Th«' award will be presented to him at the spring meeting of the National Alumni Board on campus. 

the rocks,'' reads the text, which goes on to tout Tsingtao as a worthy rival, though ex­pensive and hard to find. 
Alex Sgoutas, a director of Pepsico, which handled the import of 600,000 cases of Stoly last year, said the firm decided to "keep a low profile until the Russian situation in Afghanis­tan is cleared up." 
"We've had cases where people have gone into markets or bars that were selLing Stolic­hnaya and asked, 'What are you going to do about it? Aren't you patnotic?''' 
• • • LaSalle 
enced.'' 
With Tripucka out, Phelps will probably use the starting lineup for the Maryland game, with Orlando Woolridge moved to Tripucka's forward spot and Gilbert Salinas moving in at center. Bill Hanzlik saw some action at forward with freshman guard John Paxson at guard, and Phelps figures to use this lineup to slow down Brooks. 
En~eers at Xerox work miracles. 
Our engineers convert complicated tasks into simple ones. With just the push of a button, Xerox equipment works wonders. Dependably. Our engineers' reward? Success. And Xerox technology is built on success stories. 
Xerox is dedicated to new ideas. And to our engineers who are developing them. While our competition cut their R&D budgets, we increased ours. (By 15%). Engineers at Xerox work with almost $1 million a day converting the tech­nology of the future into reality. Our challenge of the 80's. Not everyone is ready for it. Xerox is. And we're looking for engineers who want to be 

part of it. Your future can get off to a great start in our reprographics technology. But did you know that 
Xerox is also a leader in processor memory discs and drives, electronic typing and printing and telecommunications? 
Xerox is a tot41 information center. Give your ideas the attention they deserve. Check: with your college placement office for campus inter­view dates and schedules. Then talk to our campus representatives. 
XEROX 
Xerox is m aftirm.tive ;action employer (nule/6:male) 
CAREERS THAT CAN'T BE DUPLICATED 

The Observer -Sports Wednesday, January 30, 1980-page 10 
I . RIVER CITY RECORDS I
•l 's ltal·lan Ba 1 ~ery 
I noltheintndlana'slargestrecordandtape 1
Macr ~ I selection and conceit ticket headquarters 1
1
I Jl.OOOFF any album or tape 1 I (limit one per person) I I x ires feb. 4 1 I 
I I ~18,000 album• and tGpeeln etock I Today's special-Apple & Cherry Turnovers & Strudel 
1-No;smcstudent checks accepted for up to 
1I J20.00 over purchase; ptlce amount 
Fn'day 's coffee cake winner -003117 

I•Op•n 10 to 10,7 days a weekPick up your Valentine treats now 520 E. LaSalle 
so. Bend

Heo11f&lcapedrlde ~ Ph.. lSl-1010 
I': ~ l ' '. :' '· l
)i i i ~·''I' I ' ,! , r .. 
I .. . ' ',1 lc-' •' ·, ;: ' I ' \ ~ ·.~ 

Aaron disagrees with Rose selection 
Molarity 
JlA\VE; WHAT £VER HAfJ>El{Et> 10 THAT PICTDRL4L ON /Vt:mf£ t>.AHE .MJI>sr:~y:S 

The Daily Crossword 
© 1980 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. Afl Rights Reserved 


ATI.ANTA (AP) -All-time home run king Henry Aaron, who snubbed an award com-. memorating his record 715th homer as ''The Greatest Mo­ment of the Decade,'' added fire to the controversy Tuesday by claiming he, and not Pete Rose, should have been select­ed as "Player of the Decade." 
"I don't want this to sound like I have anything against Pete Rose or his accomplish­ments, because I don't," Aaron said. "I just feel like what I did in the '70s was in no way second best to any accomplish­ment of anybody, no matter what they did. 
''I know I only played the first six yeats of the decade, but I think what I did in those six years would be easier to take if the vote had been by the fans, but it was by sports writers ­people who know a little about baseball," he said. 
Sports broadcasters and wri­ters and baseball executives participated in the voting. Rose received 109 points, including 24 first place votes. Rod Carew of the California Angels was second 103 points and 20 firsts. Aaron was next with 86 points, including 20 firsts. 
Aaron blamed New York sportswriters, 

"I just think there were some people in the press who didn't want to vote me this award. I don't want to get into a racial thing, but I was never the ideal person for the New York press," said Aaron, now 45 and a vice president with the Atlan­ta Braves. 
"Rose has a tremendous re-
by Michael Molinelli 
ACROSS 25 Joined by Player's treaty ·game 28 -da capo 5 Undersized 29 -tonga.. 10 Kiwi 32 Feat 
relatives 33 Grim 14 Deviltry 34 Chinese 15 Sky pad name 16 Spanish 35 Make the 
duke final 
17 Deserves decision considera­39 Full of: tion suff. 

_ 20 Clever 40 Locating comeback device 21 In agree­41 Olive genus ment 42 Grade 22 Religious 43 Too bad! notables: 44 Certain abbr. Insects 23 Social 46 Explorer event Hedin 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


1110/10 
cord, but so has Henry Aaron. Just look at the records and compare the stats. I'm sure Rose being the player of the decade was just a matter of him being more of the sports wri­ters' favorite,'' he satd. 
Aaron said Rose probably had a better relationship with the press than himself because "I just went about my business and played baseball the way I thought it should be played." 
He said he has no reason to create problems. "But I feel I have to speak the truth,'' he said. "That is something no one can take from me. I will speak my mind until the day I die.'' 
Aaron was to have been honored Monday in New York byBaseball Magazine. along with Rose of the Philadelphia Phillies, Keith Hernandez of the St. Louis Cardinals and Don Baylor of the California Angels, chosen the top performers of 1979. 
Instead, Aaron, upset over what he considered a six-year snub by Commissioner Bowie Kuhn, refused to show up or accept the award, because, he said, Kuhn failed to appe~r at Atlanta Stadium on Aprtl 8, 1974 when he set the record. 
...Game 
[c-ontinued from page 12] tt's hard to say what will happen. You never know what you might see at a women's game. 
But you won't see any 360­degree slams or shattered back­boards. You won't see any television timeouts, either. You wzll see two teams playing for the sake of. enjoyment, oblivi­ous to wnters, cameramen, alumni and big bucks. 
And that's the beauty of it all. 
Interhall 
The men's tournament Is single elimina­tion. Each match consists of three games (best of three se(les.) It Is the responsibility of the participant to contact his opponent and set up the match In each round. (Phone numbers are listed In parenthesis below.) The results of the racquetball matches must be turned ln. In person, to the lnterhall office before noon on the following Wednesday. Failure to report the results to the lnterhall office will mean disqualification of both partl­pants. Results will only be accepted If the participants have filled out the proper lnterhalllnsurance forms. •After the first week of the tournament, any participant who has not met the Insurance require­ments will be dropped. 
Due to the design of asingle elimination tournament, some participants receive byes. Those participants should check Thursday's Observer for their opponent. 
Co-ree Racquetball 
Adams(1183)-Cervanek(1279) v. Flahive (1468)-Halllwell Kirn(7374)-Higglns v. Starlch(B530)-Best (3887) Nash(3264)-Cassaclo(7836) v. Wegenelz (277-033)-Walters Lynch(1185)-Murphy(7821) v. Goyette (1182)-Bialek(8050) Boudaly(6105)-Roesler(8021) v. Fisher (3597)-Blaha(7891) Nauman(1651)-Morln(8154) v. Olson (8892)-Kiag(7942) Schafer(6934)-Ki 1basso v. Ledwldge (3267)-Hartman(6232) Stahi(1845)-Campbell(5369) v. Mysliviec (8624)-0wens(1884) Looney(1398)-Yaeger(6868) v. Clishem (8318)-Melleh(6875) Kahale(6755)-Marget(8148) v. Greif (6740)-Langley(8093) Binkle(3574)-Binkowski(7983) v. Culhane (8897)-Hayes(1319) Crawford(1758)-Leltzlnger(2184) v. Brown (277-0671 )-Dorney(6987) Schmitz(8892)-Hansen(7446) v. Onufer (1109)-Dawson(1295) Disser(277-3345)-McCann(233-6229) v. Kllbane(3556)-Finney(7916) Fromholt(272-8219)-Hoerauf(233-5294) v. Burton(1653)-Gallagher(6791) Skelley(1048)-Carney(8036) v. Vander­hoef(1670)-Crowell 
47 Not at all 
upset 48 Have words 51 Jostling 
one 
54 Author of 
"Villette" 58 Misery 59 Waterway 60 European 
river 61 Unhurried 62 Winged 63 Medicinal 
amount 
DOWN Something precious 
2 Upon the surface of 
3 River In Italy 4 Record 
reverse 5 Answered 
impudently 6 Deli items 7 "Vissi 
d'-" 8 Turned on 9 Meriwether 
10 Sulfide 
mixture 11 Melange 12 River in 
England 13 Sensible 18 Big bag 19 Floating 23 Gloomy, to poets 
24  Melodies  
25  Kind of  
committee  

26 Rent out 27 Morning reception 28 Ballistic 
missile 29 Soap plant 30 Less cooked 31 Drinks 33 Auto type 36 Journey 37 Pull 
forcibly 38 Bitter herb 44 Prattle 45 Genus of 
swans 46 Uncivil .47t, J3aseball 
shoe part 48 Hurt 49 Mother of 
Zeus 50 Lasses, familiarly 51 Alcohol burner 52 Within: comb. form 53 Skyways: abbr. 55 Edible tuber 56 Chess master 57 Before 
AFTER A LOT oF 
TROUJLE I &l>T SbHE 
~UI11NAIW Ff>LA£?011>5 ~K AND fJIJI;HJTfEJ) 


----------------------------~­
' 

The Observer -Sports Wednesday,January 30, l980-page 11 
5-5 native of Sylvania, Ohio is take a look at past games, we gures in the balanced Irish 
[continued from page 12] scoringat a 17 ppg. clip, with a have been able to stop Nowalk, attack. Armstrong paced the isn't prepared to gear his best effort of 24, coming in her and hopfully our man-to-man Belles with 13 points, while defense to stopping "just· one last outing against Purdue-pressure defense will be able to Nowalk added 10, and fresh-person. Calumet. The floor leader M the do a.!?ain what it did in game man Maureen King had eight. "Notre Dame is avery balanc-8-4 Belles, senior Nancy No-one. Starting time for tonight's ed team. Their depth will be an walk, is the only other person In that contest, the Irish contest has been moved up to important part of the gam<~. Our averaging double figures at sprinted to an early lead, and 7:00 p.m. because of an agree­
... Rivalry 
strategies won't change just 12.l.According to Petro, those were never headed. Matvey led ment with WSND-AM radio. because of the people they have are the two players which her Notre Dame with 22 points, The station decided to broad-on the floor at a given time. defense will have to stop. while Maggie Lally, playing cast the game as the first part of They are not a one man team." "Anne Armstrong is their probably her best game of the a basketball doubleheader. Part 
Saint Mary's has a freshman leading storer, and she w~ll year, added 15. Jan Crowe, two of that doubleheader will sensation of their own in ther have to be stopped. The same ts ] ane Politiski, and Molly Cash-feature the Notre Dame ~-------------------------p~e~r~s~o~n~o~f~A~n~n~e~A~r_m~s~tr~o~n~g~·-T_h_e__~t~r=ue~o~f~N~a=n=c~y_N~o_w_a_lk_.~If~y_o_u___m_a_n__a_l_s_o__re_a_c_h_e_d__d_o_u_b_le___fi_-__L_a_s_a_ll_e_m__e_n_·s~g_a_m_e_.________, 
Classifieds  All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the issue in which the ad is run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail.  
Three SMC students need ride to Chicago on Friday. Please call Chrissa4-1-4155 orNotices Lisa 4-1-4151. Off Campus Fall athlete (interhall): party Needed: 4-6 GA NC State B-Ball tickets:at Lee's BBO Wed .. Jan. 30, 5:00-??. Will pay top dollar. Call Andy 885"1.Brew and dinner for $3.00. Be there!! Anyone having an Insurance book to sellTyping in my home. Pick up and delivery call Jeff 6801.if needed. IBM Selectric typewriter. · Phone 674-8367. Anyone needing rides to Penn State call Jeff 6801.~nyone interested in working on the Ben ~ernandez campaign lor the Mock Con­Roommate wanted to share house. 2 mi.entlon. Call Greg at 1165. from campus. Excellent neighborhood $125 mo. Call John 233-6573.,,ocial Concern'S Film Series, Jan. 28-31. l'o charpe. . Instructor wanted to teach MCAT ~:lass. Call collect 317-463-7541. lost&Found All interested students: High paying part-time jobs on campus ...you set the Lost: Lady's gold, wristwatch, brand hours. Write: Collegiate Press; Box 556, name Elgin. flat link band 1/4" wide Belleville, Mich., 48111 now. No w/clasp. A special gift from my obligation.folks--please help!! Substantial reward if returned. Call 1986. Babysitter needed for 1 112 year old. Tuesdays and Thursdays 10-5 near Lost: It--Yes, I'm losing all that I own . campus. 232-9541. Two sets of keys. 1 set with purple key, 1 set with 2 VW keys, 1 Georgia driver's Wanted: expired Indiana liscense platesliscense.. Please call Andy at 234-6353. for hobby collection. Joe 8386. Lost: Ladies gold watch at Canisius I will pay for expert information on game. Call8111 or 3881. current college basketball. For details, write Jim Behan, 3815 Cochran Av.,Found: gold necklace with locket and L.A., Ca. 90008. heart. Call Pat 1650. Wanted: one refrigerator to rent for the Lost: 1red backback at North Dining Hall semester. Call 7850. in A & Bline. If found please call Bart at Mike: We want fridge, but you left6()70 wrong number. Call back! I lost a silver bracelet with alternating One secretary for afternoons 3-5 pm. A silver .pendants and amethyst (violet) paid position, typing skills needed. Call stones. If you find it, please bring to WSND 7425. Lyons or Lost and Found. Lost: 4keys on leather key ring in or near Nieuwland Jan. 22. Please call 234-6298 For Sale or 232-8692. Join the crowd!! Pope John Paul II for Lost: Tiny Swiss army knife. Call Janice President bumper stickers. $1 eacll/3 for at 232-5543. $2. Satisfaction guaranteed. Golden Dome, Box 41. Bergenfield, N.J., 07621. Found: bracelet in front of Hayes-Healy on Wednesday, Jan. 23. Call to identify Marantz 1060 integrated amp. w/ch., 8742. Ask for Mike. walnut case. Call 277-2749. Found: One glove with orange and blue RAICHLE STRATO ski boots mens size markings. Found during a recent B. This year's model, new. Call Jal/3815. basketball game. Visit Observer office to identify. Pro-American "Hey Iran" defiance T­shirts available. $5 delivered. 3colors, 4 Lost: 1979 Manchester H.S. class ring. sizes. Phone 18661or details. Silver with blue stone. Lost at Maryland basketball game In Section 6. Has great Nine Princeton Kierkegard volumes. Like sentimental value! If found, call Chris OP.W 272-7347. 3278. Reward! Return of green, ladies Schwinn Ticketswith baskets; missing since Dec. 1979 from LaFortune. Write: Morgann, Box Needed: 4-6 GA NC State B-Ball tickets.1734, South Bend, 46634. or call 288-9379 Wi II pay top dollar. Call Andy 8B5·t. or 289·4061. Need 1 GA ticket for Davidson. Call AnnLost: One pair of glasses at N01 277-4976. -Maryland game. They were in an NBC blazer. Please return glasses to 246 Got to have many GA DePaul tixsSBarryKeenan or call 3308. 2106. Desperately need 2-3 NC State BB tixFor Rent GA. Please call Dan or Bob 3324. For Rent: Walking distance to ND. Need 1-4 DePaul tix. Will pay whatever itOpposite New Loudou Lake on No. takes to get them. Greg 1728.Ironwood. I have 3 bedroom house with two other young men. Ideal for male Need GA's 1 Davidson, 5 NC State. Tomstudent or faculty member. Tel 277-0556 7666 or 289-6543. We rent dependable cars,from $7.95 a Need 2 GA tix for NC State. $$ Call Paulday and 7 cents a mile. Ugly Duckling 233-9186.Rent-A-Car, 921 E. Jefferson Blvd., Mishawaka, Ind. 255-2323. Will pay through the nose for two student basketball tickets for the Feb. 24 game.One bedroom for rent in 3bedroom house r.~ll Hl7R on Ironwood Rd. Call 277-0556. 1 oesperately need many UePaul tix.·------------------­-Rooms for Rent: $40.00 pr month. Near Please call Steve 8696, hurry! rides. 233-1329. Need 4GA's to Davidson game, Call Rob Apartments and houses for rent now and 234-1633. Sept. 1980. Call 234-9364. In dire need of Marquette-NO B-Ball tix Female roommate wanted: Spacious GA or student. Call John in evenings at apartment at 832 Notre Dame Ave. 288-5891.sn.50 per month. Stay free in February. r.all 232-8308. 1need 2GA's for any NO home basketball game. Will pay top dollar. Call Jefl 8764.Wanted Help! Need 2GA Marquette tickets. Call Ambitious and talented persons to fill Karen 6798. staff. Call WSND 7425. Donna or Darryl.  Desperately need DePaul tickets. Student or GA. Call Pau\1027. Need De Paul Tickets $ $ $ call 277-2344 or 7857 Need GA's to Dayton game. Help me-Mick 8212. Desperately need 4'or 5 tickets to NC State game. Call Ed 1687. Multiple Dayton GA's needed. Offers. Mick 8212. I need 2GA DePaul tickets for Dad before I graduate. Mick 8212. I need many GA tix to DePaul. Men from Chgo will pay very big bucks $$$. Call 8437. 11:00 pm-1:00 am. Need 2 GA's to any remaining home basketball game, especially Navy. Call Brad at 1052. Desperately need 1GA for Davidson. Call 6747. Khomeni is coming, will trade 50 hostages for 4 DePaul GA tix. Call lshmo 3508. Please! Need 2GA's for Davidson. Janet 7434. / Need GA ticket to Davidson, call Mike 8842. Desperately need 2 GA's for DePaul game. Call1871. Desperately need 4 GA's for' NC State. Call Rick, 8739. Need Davidson B-Ball tix. Call Tim 287-4823. Need 2 DePaul GA tickets. Rich 1187. Need GA tix to any home bball game. Paul 3121. Need 2GA or student tix for DePaul. Call Kathy at 1314. Need DePaul Basketball tickets! !(GA and student) Dad and friends coming from Chicago. Will pay $$. Please call Vicki at 41-4760. Desperately need 2 GA's for Navy. Call ~~­. Seriously need 3 GA tix to No. Carolina St. or Marquette. Call Sean 1n1 anytime. Desperately need NC State and DePaul tickets. Preferably GA. Top$$. Call Pat 1791. Please. In dire need of 3 DePaul tix. Call Joe 1407. _ Need 2-4 GA's for NC State game. Call Don 1143. Need student and GA tix lor DePaul bball game. Paul 3121. Personals Madeline: Why didn't we get to join the Mazoia party? You promised us we'd be second, third, and fourth!!! Love and kisses, Larry, Bob, and Bart John Smith Is it really true that you wear the "feminine look" underneath? A "Close" Shaver Panama, 1hope your face is still baby smooth, rt not try nair. Next time I'll get your throat! A "Close" Shaver Three wild and crazy guys need three wild and crazy women to party with. Call Otto, John, & Sean at 8583. They promise you a fun time! It's MaryJo McCormack's 22nd Birthday. Give her birthday kisses tonight at Sr. Bar!!  To Those present at the blowout: lllave Luc (with a "C"), never seen PFISTER's Carroll so quiet at "Psssst!"---Je me suis amusee bien le 8:30 pm on a Friday night. Must have samedi sour. Roulant da.ns Ia neige been a suecess. n'etaif jamais miew(' A Lewis Lunatic Avec Amour, .lean AnnSweeny, Here it is!! The organizational meeting of the MaryLove, Keith Kay Leydon School of Abuse Wi II be held Thursday night in room 161 Morrissey.Want to ... Attendance is mandatory. For further Gain valuable sales experience information, call Tom at 3489.Round out your resume Earn a few dollars It's rainingJoin the WSND advertising sales team, It's pouringcall 7425. Tom Schuler is boring AbuseR.K.* _ Just· wanted to say thanks far being To our favorite H-Cows--Charles, Jeff,around tor tr? first semester. I really anq Tom,needed you. Have a good second You were gteat Friday night. On thesemester! -, bed was fun but next time we'll stop atLove ya, 42. The 9ame was revealing. In theB.H. future, we II provide the entertainment. Oh my! You "ding-a-lings" are possess­Hey! If you've got any talent in artistic ed.design and/or advertising, call WSN D Noogie! Noogie!7425...and put it to good use. Joni, Katie, Anne, Teresa. MarthaThe Ro.ck Tower Two need ride .to South Chicago Feb. 1.Life's strange sometimes, huh? Well, Call 41-4518.Laura Hirschfeld--\ love you. Ride needed to Muncie IN or vicinity onHey, Patti, Fri. Feb. 1, will share expenses. CallHave a great day! (Yea, kiddo, this Amy 41-4156.one's for you). Love, Mike VOLUNTEERS WANTED: 1) Tutor grade school students, EnglishFink Face, as a second language.Thanx for misspelling my name. I 2) Visit male patient, 25 years, in nursingunderstand, we only roomed together lor home. a semester. Besides, coming from you, 3) Assist at St. Joseph County in clericalnothing would surprise me. work.Thanx anyway lor the B-day wish. Contact Volunteer Services-7308Baa-Baa Help! Desperately need one DePaulScholastic Writer's Meeting, Wed. 6:30­ticket. Call Lisa SMC 4629.Will be quick, so please attend. Sophomores:THE REBIRTH OF PROHIBITION has Class trip to N0-Dayton B-Ball game, come to LeMans Hall SMC. Seminar now Sat. March 1, 2:15 tip off, for ticket andforming for those interested in joining the ride info, call (before 9 pm) Steveguild of illegal section parties call Susie Bruemmer 1852.G. The Sunday phone caller-Randee Jennings 1hear Valentine's Day is wonderful inPlease pick up your December paycheck New York.from Ceil in The Observer office RCMZ(?)promptly. P.S. Countdown Bambi W. and Bambi M., Campus Guam is now forming. Call 8192Tanning in the raw is tough on the hide. for details.Don't get hurt. MBand KT Ranger Patty, Between a woman's yes and a woman'sThe legendary I. Cappa Kegga is having no. you can barely fit aneedle--a Russianits first bash this Friday night. proverbGorgeous women. dancing fools, aching Love, R.T.athletes, drivling intellectualoids, and Margaret McGlynn (love those eyelashes) Ranger Patty,are invited. How often do you get attacked by aFamous author will be on hand to sign Griffen? Who is Griffen?copies of ITK article. Party is on 4th floor of Dorm & vicinity. WANT TO LEARN HOW TO WRITE Aof that sanctuary of Saga at S. 0. H. RESUME? This and other essentialsNo Teetottlers allowed. taught to Seniors in Putting It All Together--a two-part workshop on Feb. 5Katie, and Feb. 7 at 4 pm in President's. BoardYou did a swell job on my buttons! room. _Sign up in the Career Develop­A million thanks, ment Center, SMC.Jim NEED A TRIAL RUN BEFORE YOUMichele INTERVIEW? Come make a 1/2 hourPrincess (A, RPITA) requests the honor appointment to practice interviewing onof your accompaniement February 9. videotape, Jan. 31 from 1-5. Sign up inYou play, she'll sing, then trade! the Career Development Center. SMC.Angelique EXPLORE YOUR RELATIONSHIP!!!Many thanks to the kind people who took Couples with some commitment are care of me last Thursday night until the invited to participate in an 8 weekambulance came. workshop beginning Feb. 5. Meets fromAngela Adamson 6-8 p.m. every Tues. in Habig Lounge, Moreau Hall, SMC. Sign·up by Jan) 30 in GIRLZ, the Counseling and Career Development You're the best! Great Lasagna, just Center, SMC. like Mama's! We owe you one. Love, Dear 3rd floor Regina North Beauties THE BOYZ Thanks for the wine, women. and song. The dinner was great. Marlo, L~ve, You drive cabdrivers crazy Pat Brendan, Bernie, Tom and Tim Along with some fathers too, You wow\ at the hard hal!. THE GREAT SWANEW But 1 mglad Chi has you. You are never too old to learn. Give it a try. NO and SMC Women: Lifeguard AVOID THE DRAFT!!!Contact the Notre Dame Stud Service tor deferment pro­Dating service, (616) 684-5985, P.O. Box cessing. Call1479 for appointment. 204, Niles, Mi., 49120.  

', 


-----------------------:--------------------------
SRorts 
Notre Dame to battle LaSalle 
hy Mark l'erry .\j>url1 I :ditor 
Noli<· l>a11H' will he without 
Jh i\11./\m!'l 1\ an forward, Kelly 
1'1 I! HI\ ka, whl'll ir fan·s the 
l:).plor('J.., of I.;JS;tll(' lonight at 
rlw i>alc..,IJ;J 
/\nd iiH' iJJ..,h will hav(' lo find 
.1 way '" dl'al wirh anodll'r 
.dl /\1111'111 an. l.aSall(''.., MH had 
HI<Htk .... 
l'q•ofl ,.., .... tlll'dul('(l for 1) I' 111 , hur ,...;,urh B('nd vrewers ·.viii havl' '" lliiH' 111 Channel 32 
lr 11111 <.hi< ;rgo lo carch the 
,\lt-rr" ( .llllllllliiiH a1io11s broad-
l fl'->1 

1'1 qHu k;1 ,.., ..,, rll srddined <it! .\itlma.1 iahoveJ 1s expected lu ;,,. in the /meujJ imce iiJ!,ilin
w11i1 .1 h.u k adni<'Jll ,and dmrors 

lollt,r!,hl, rej>ladnJ!. the injured
-..rill ;Ill' lllhl'll;tlll whe11 dll' (J-(1 

A:d/y '!'nj>ucktl. lf>hotos hy John
111111111 wdl ll(' ahl<· lo r('iurn 10 
M,,,:or ,md /)ouJ!. Christian I
iiH' Nllill' lbllll' IIIH'llp. 
1\k;JJIWillk. rlw lnsh face llio<~b. who'" 111 illl' lop 10 in ilw ll;liJon 111 hoi h scoring and 11'1 '"'II"l111g. a11d ;111 <'X IH' ri('lll ed ,.. ,,,loll'l "'iliad rhal hoasrs 
iiii<T "''""" and rwo junior -..1;1111'1'. · 'l.aS;dl!' ,.., a V('ry I'Xi'<'lll'lln·d 

a  6)-20  record  in  four  years,  including  one  
pcrfn 1 21-0 season.  .  
Of  course  things  were  dtfferent  then.  He  

I<';JIII rh.11 t'l'llll'rs around llroob. · · ";''" lri-.h coach Dig­gl'l Phdps ~ "I k ·s a great 
pLI\·t·r Y<HI crn'r really stop h1111. hur vou hav(' 111 keep him lllthnk.... 
1\rooks. a (•-7 fi11-ward, aver­;Jgl's 2(•. I poinrs and 12.1 rl'hounds pl'r game to pace the LrSalll' allatk. This marks the rlmd s11 aiglu year that the st·nror h;rs averag('d over 20 pt1111IS. and Brooks figures to hrl'ak nh•sr of rhe LaSalle sn11111g nTords bcfiHT the sea­
""" l'llds. It ontinut'd Of/ {'LIP,t' 9] 



Wednesday,January 30, 1980-page 12 
Whythe Palestra? ...Digger insists ! 
PHILADELPHIA--There has to be a better place to play this game than the Palestra. 
The Palestra. The name of the place sounds as archaic as its creaky floorboards; like one of those old dance halls or silent movie palaces they always show in ancient newsreels. 
The Palestra. Nine-thousand bleacher seats and 'J by 12 locker rooms. Even the smell of the place reminds you of Friday nights in the old high sLhool gym. 
fJony talled cheerleaders--three-piece pep band,· "Go team, GO!!" 
The Palestra. Why, with Convention Hall only a block away and even the mighty Spectrum (17 ,000 seats--all plushy padded) not much further, it·.., hard to believe that Digger agrees to play here when his Irish make what is becoming an annual pilgrimage to the City of Brotherly Love. 
A~rees tol He insists on it! . "lley, rl1is. is where college basketb~ll srartcd,' 11c proclaims wit{l an eye on the Bt.g Five banncrs tf.:at drape from the rafters. (Thts building really has rafwrs.) ,. 
lhu there's more to his affinity for the place rhan that. For, you see, this is also where Digger Phelps started. He came her.e as an assisranl to University of Pennsylvania coach DiLk Haner, and his freshman squads compiled 
wasn' 1 as experienced...or as confident. There wnc no carnations and three-piece suits and his pnsonaliry, like that of the building, was a bit less flashy. 

Frank 

LaGrotta 
Sports Writer 

From Penn he went on to the head job at Fordh tm, leaving after one year, a 26-3 record, and a hell ofa lot of angry fans, to come to Notre Dame. He• goes back there once a year too. ("Mecca," as he calls New York.) But it isn't the same. The fans that once cheered him now boo his every move. And there's always at least one nasty banner to remind him that they haven'r forgotten his premature departure from the Big Apple. 
But it's not like that here. Palestra fans remember a young Dick Phelps and they love him for what he was arrd what he has become. Digger has brought a team h~re four rimes since coming to Notre Dame and his Palestra record is 4-0. But that's not why he comes back. 
"College basketball is big business," he says JIOW in vintage Digger-ese, "and to deny that is hypocritical. We're show business. The arena itself is a theater of the performing arts." 
But not this arena (if you can call it that.) That's not what brings him back here either. 
Here the grey hair and wrinkles of the last 10 years fade into the past as he looks around and remembers what it was like to dream about how it might be someday.. How it is now. 
C'rnon Digg.er. Some things really are more important than gate receipts. 
Tonight 

Belles, Irish to continue rivalry 
by Mark Hannuksela Sports Wn'ter 

Rivalries are always a part of any sport -in baseball it's t~e Yar.k-ee::. and the Dodgers, m basketball it's the Celtics and 
Tension mounts for biggame 
lr's h;ndh ht'l'll a t\·pical week here in South 
lknd. ~·,•unring d11wn .111 the big game. Hut ~hen 
.1~.1111. rill' Wl'l'k hdtu·e the Nnrre Dame-Samt 
1\'Lir' ·s game IH'\'l'l' is. . , 
N,•rn· i);lnH· n1ad1 Sharnn Petro snll doesn t \·r IH·r pLI\L'IS spl'ak the name "Saint 1\tary's," 
and <lllh rl'lns ''' rhe Belles as "that school 
;ILit•ss rhl' siiTL'I.·· And the reporters are still 
lh•und111g S.rinr 1\lan·'s n•ach _Jerry _Dallessit~. 
Jill' NPII'L' lhnll' graduate who still hasn r 
111.1na~nl '''hell his alma mater. 
I h:rd w;nul'll ttl talk tn 6-1 freshman Shari 
!\l.ri\1'\. the lnsh srar wlw has become the 
, l'nll'l ,,1 .1 rnllllling scandal that threatens to 
pur NPill' D.1111c 11n prt>hatitlll. bur Petro refuses 
,,, .rlluw her plan·rs ILl ulk 111 an~·nne. One ntghr. 
it'\ ,.II w.1i11'd fL•r three htllll~ 111 the enid oursrde 
1 hi' plu... h l11gh-rrst· d.mnittln· t'tHnplex which 
ih•li..,I'S rill· :'\i,>nt· Dame plaH·rs. Hut Nntre Dame 
~~·, urJI\ (ul.Jil, t·h.tsnl me aw.n once the\· were 
1,1111 lll<'l'•l I ".t,;n'r a rapi~t. . . 
h t·n rill' ~u' fr,,m .\j>orls 11/uslrul<'d who's .],," n hnt· ,,; <L•Yl'l' the game is haYing a rough lillll' I ~ut·ss th.u's tL• be expeued. though. EYer 'Iill I' I·~'II' l n·fused [II appear llll rhe Cll\'er of srs I'I I'St'.!Stlll J:<Slll'. rei at iLlllS between the two have_ J>LTII ks:< rh.1n <••rdial. 
I·'' L'j'' f1•r tilt' runwrs that Notre Dame t,>r\\ .11, l.trH· P1>liti~ki has been the object of her IL'.IIllill.lil's' JT~t'llllllt'IH since she was named to /'..:1 . .:.:·.'·s pre~t·a~Llll .\11-:\merican ream. and the 
illlih'l fu11•r ~·n·r Pr:trLl kickrn~ tWLl n_uns out of 1'1 .•, I ItT. thne lusn· t been a smgle thtng of note .u-.•Uihl here 
:\ l·,>uplc 1lf LHher out-tlf-rown writers were h.r, Jtll! a dnnk in GLlLlse's the other mght. and srntT ~' e lud rhe Place all to ourselves, we began l<l rt'l111n1St't'. 
.\b1>Ut the rrrne Petro kicked in a 30-second t·l1><k ;tfter a traYeling call on her ream one year. .\nd the time ~he punched a Saint Mary's player wlh> had just made rwo free throws ro beat Notre Dame by tllle point. 


Craig 

Chval 
And the vear Dallessio blamed a loss on the fal't that st;mebodv turned off the heat in his ream's mom~ in rhe Morris Inn. Which was the \Tar after Perro grabbed the public address inirr,•plwne and implored rhe Norr.e Da~.e c~ow.d ttl stnp yellmg obscenities, saymg, T.hts IS NLIIIT Dame. and we don't need that kmd of s---here... 
There was also the rime Dallessio shoved a upe. n·n11 der in the face of a reporter from the srudem newspaper who had the gall to ask .~im what was wrong with the Saint Mary's transition game. And the vear Petro bit the head off a live trng (II get her ream fired Up. 
1\h· fa\'llrire storY was the one about Perro du~lng after a CBS cameraf!'lan after a loss to ~aim ~lan·'s in the ACC. Of course, we found Lilli later that Notre Dame would have had to fnrfeir the game am·way when t~ree of ~ts rla~:ers Were diSCO\'ered to have received CreditS f11r JUnior college courses they never atten~ed. 
,\nd do you remember how close Petro came to l 1 •~ing hec job when one of her former players accused her of punching her and humiliating her in practice) 
Things ha,·en · t been ~II peaches a~d cream for Dallessio. either. The tans booed h1m when he came our to lead cheers in a three-piece suit and carnation. and they laughed at him ~hen he wnre a sweatshirt and s.wearpants agamst Old Dominion. 
Yes. it's been quire a series ... Yes. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's resume their "Shuttle Series" tonight in the ACC, and 
[continued on page 10] 
the Knicks, in hockey it's Momreal vs. everybody else. 
In recent times, rivalries in collegiate athletics have taken the upper hand in drawing the attention of the spectators ­everybody watches Ohio State and Michigan battle it out on the gridiron; Notre Dame and UCLA on the hardwood. One rivalry which doesn't get a lot of exposure, but is still significant to those parties involved, will be renewed tonight when Notre Dame hosts Saint Mary's. 
What? Women's athletics? You can't be serious. 
For those skeptics who are inclined to doubt the legitimacy ofwomen's sports, rest assured that they are taken seriously, and that tonight's basketball game betwee~ the Irish and t~e Belles will mdeed be a b1g game for both schools. 
' 'I think the biggest key ·to the ballgame will ber mental.'' 
At first glance, the Irish, under the guidance of third year head coach Sharon Petro, appear to be an overwhelming favorite, in light of their 81-4 5 victory earlier this season at SMC. But Saint Mary's coach Jerry Dallessio is trying to keep 
-his ream from taking that glance. 
··I think rhe biggest key to the ball~ame will be. ment~l," Dal­lessw said earlier this week. "We can't go into their big ACC and be intimidated -that was out problem in the first game. We shot only 26 percent from the floor, and while they admitedly played a good. defen­sive ball game, we were JUSt too nervous. We've got to be loose going in." 
Petro is also cautious about surface evaluations, and is by no means taking tonight's game lightly. 
"Notre Dame vs. Saint Mary's is always a very emotional game, and in games like that, where emotions are running high, anything can happen. We're not going to prove that we're a better team on the basis of past record. We're going to have ~? do it right there on the floor. • 
The Irish, who sport a 10-4 record and a three game win­ning streak going into the contest, are lead by freshman sensation Shari Matvey. Aver­agil}g slightly more than 30 minutes per ~arne, Matvey leads the team m both scoring and reboundin~, with averages of 18.6 and 9.8 m the respective departments. She is shooting 59 percent from the floor and 58 percent from the free throw line, leads the team in blocked shots, and is tied for the lead in steals. Over the course of the season, Matvey has led the Irish in scoring in 11 of their 14 games, including two 31 point performances which set school records for most points in a single game. While the figures sound impressive, Dallessio 
[continued on page 11] 

WSNDtoair bothgames 
Tip-off time for tonight's Notre Dame-Saint Mary's game at the ACC is 7:00. The game will be aired as the first game of a women-men's collegiate dou­bleheader on WSND, AM-64 . The second game, slated for 
9:00. features Notre Dame's men against LaSalle live from Philadelphia. That game will not be televised locally. 

'·Sportsline'' will immediate­ly follow the basketball action, and will last until midnight. 





