
~-----------.--------.-------------------------~--------------------------------------------~---------------------------­
, , .New Senate -page 3 
EDNESDA Y OCTOBER 29, 1980 VOL. XV, NO. 45 
Economy
andidates debate 
dominates 
CLEVELAND (AP)-President Carter and Ronald Reagan argued and peace in a climactic campaign debate Tuesday night, the 


all issues

t accusing his Republican challenger of "dangerous and ligerent" talk, Reagan retorting that the use of force should be always and only a last resort." by AnneJane Drega/la The 90-minute confrontation produced no dramatic collision; Staff Reporter 
rather there was a persistent-sometimes-spirited exchange, 

marked by frequent disputes over policies and programs. Reagan was As the 1980 presidential cam­
especially aggreive in contradicting Carter when the president paign approaches its final stage~ 
characterized Reagan's proposals. Carter, as usual, was the master of we are compelled to look at th(' 
detail. area of most marked contrast At one point, Reagan was discussing world troubles and he likened between the candidates, a con· Carter to a "witch doctor," who grows anxious when a real doctor trast so sharp President Carter appears with the right presciption. Carter also wielded a tart tongue has predicted it shall oblige the on several occasions, one time referring to Reagan's tax cut plan as American people to vote. This "ridiculous." area is the economy. All three Carter said that during the eight years before he became president, major candidates have recog­
U.S. military strength declined. He said the Democratic admin­nized the economy as the first istration has reversed that. Reagan scoffed at this, saying the priority issue of this campaign, Republican presidents of those years had to try to get defense ing though each of their solutions through spending from Democratic Congresses, which often cut differ profoundly. appropriations. He also said the Carter administration has cut by 38 percent a five-year defense spending blueprint left by former President Gerald R. Ford. ISSUES 1'80 
The second question turned on what the candidates would do about inflation and the responses brought a spirited give and take. Carter called Reagan's 10 percent income tax cut proposal in each ***** 
A ci>mmonly accepted defin­of the next three years one of the" most highly inflationary proposals ition of inflation is "too much ever submitted to the American people" and "highly ridiculous." 
money chasing too few goods,"He also quoted his Republican opponent as having said that the as well as a decline in the value ofminimum wage was a major cause of unemployment. · the dollar. It is a problem oftenReagan said "we don't have inflation because the American people considered the greatest domestic are living too well, we have inflation because the government is living threat facing our nation today. 
too well." 
The Republican Party ha~Reagan cited his experience as governor of California which ·launched a serious attack against prompted Carter to say during his eight years as governor, Reagan P11t·ky the Penguin,maJcot ifthe hockey team prevailed d11ring laJt President Carter in this area.
submitted three ofthe highest tax increases ever enacted in the state. night's. game against Bowling Green.(photo by Helen Odar) They have stated that Carter bears the blame for the devalu­ation of the dollar and the de­
Hostage issue 
terioration of American savings. In recent radio and TV adver­



America fears political backlash 
tisements, Reagan has referred to the fact that not only has Carter carried inflation from 4.8 
by The Associated Press sary of captivity, expressed its ligious holiday, but did not men­White House" while Iranians are percent to an "outrageous" 18Iran's Parliament was set to irritation at news reports sug­tion the hostages. It was the being killed in battle. 
percent, but he has fostered a 50 resume debate Wednesday on gesting their release was immi­holiday that halted a series of Iran has accused the United percent increase in federalthe American hostages after a nent. The White House said it parliamentary debates on the States of aiding Iraq in the war. 
spending and tax increases ofone-day pause marked by re­feared the reports could cause an hostages that began Sunday and Prime Minister Mohammad Ali more than 70 percent.
newed uncertainty on their fate. Iranian backlash. are to resume Wednesday. Rajai this week said the debate on The Democrats, however,The Carter administration, Iranian ~evolutionary leader The 80-year-old Moslem patri­52 Americans was less import,ant blame the present situation on amoving toward a Nov. 4 presi­Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini arch, who wields virtually com­than the war that is taking recession inherited in 1977 from dential election that coincides attacked President Carter in a plete control over the govern­Iranian lives. 
the Republicans. Presidentwith the hostages' first anniver-broadcast speech marking a re-ment, said Carter is "sitting in the In Tehran, sources said the Carter boasts many accomplish­p11rliamentary discussion was ments in this area, such as indi·likely to continue at least several vidual and business tax cuts, air· Nuclear radiation more days because ofconflicting line and banking regulation re­views on the demands that forms, and an 11.8 percent in­should be made on the United crease in the Gross NationalStates for their release and
D.O.E. slow in reporting leak 
Product. Carter blames inflation whether all hostages should be on higher oil prices, hight:r in­by Norman Soloman ments of the spread of radio­Las Vegas. "It didn't stop at freed together. 
terest rates, and tighter controbPacific News Service active gases from the test. Lathrop Wells,'' he speculated. The sources sikl many depu­on consumer credit. Reagan ac­The Department of Energy "It kept on going." ties favored trying some of the cuses Carter of "blaming every­EDITOR'S NOTE: A 12-hour (DOE), which supervises the Utah and California health Americans as spies and have one from OPEC to the American delay in nohfying &round moni­atomic testing in Nevada, ori­authorities say they learned of pledged to drag out the debate as people themselves for inflation,ton'ng statzons following the ginally said that the radiation the radioactive leak from the long as possible. 
everyone that is except his ownSeptember 25 nuclear test leak. was ''not expected to leave the media, four hours after the In Hamburg, West Germany, Administration and it's policiesin Nevada may have resulted in Nevada Test Site." EPA was notified and 16 hours the ARD television network, which are the true cause of in­
inaccurate measurements of after it occurred. 
quoting "informed circles," said flation."
off-site radiahon. PNS coTTes­
"There was an obvious 
Iran might demand live televi­

pondent Norman Soloman, who communication screw-up over A sharp contrast exists be·
sion time in the United States to 

is co-authon·ng a book on at DOE,'' said Chuck Costa, tween these two candidate's pro­
argue its case before the Amer­

radiation victims, looks into the EPA deputy director for nu­posals on this problem. The
ican people as a condition for

controversy. clear radiation assessment. Democrats maintain that "fiscal
releasing some of the captives. 

''They should have called us policy remains a flexible eco­
An Iranian parliamentary

Because of the delay in much earlier than they did." nomic tool," in other words the
spokesman denied the TV re­

SALT LAKE CITY--Following official notification of the inci­A spokesman for the DOE, government should keep a hand
port. "This is not true," said an

detection of radioactive leakage dent, neither federal nor Cali­Dave Jackson, responded that on business. Carter opposes a
official who identified himself as 

from a Sept. 25 nuclear bomb fornia officials were able to set "We feel that they were noti­plan to balance the budget in
Mr. Manafi, at the parliament'stest in Nevada, the Department up monitoring equipment in fied in what we considered to 1981 and supports large deficits of Energy delayed 12 hours time to measure the possible be a timely manner. That was public relations office. 
to curb recession. Most econo­before alening the Environ­drift of the gas into California. the way it was, and I have no In Bern, Switzerland, Denis mists agree that at this time any mental Protection Agency, "Unless you've got a big further comment." Feldmeyer, a spokesman for the plan which involves a deficit iswhich is charged with off-site wall there, the gas just kept The Director of the Califor­Swiss, who handle U.S. affairs in bound to perpetuate inflation.
rediation momtoring. moving," said Dr. Leonard nia Department of Healthe Iran, said, "I have no information In view of the impending .$60
The delay, some officials and Storm, a noted geneticist and Services, Beverlee Myers, in a on the conditions of a possible million deficit in this year's fed-

scientists believe, may have expert on nuclear test activities release of the hostages ...I Gannot prevented accurate measure-at the University of Nevada at (wntinued on page 6) confirm any condition •(continued on page 5) 



News in brief 
Saudi Arabia severed tieswith Libya 
yesterday ina dispute between the oil-producing giants over the Saudis' acceptance of four special American radar planes to monitor the Iraq-Iran war. Exxon Corp:, which receives oil from both Arab countries, said in NewYork that neither nation had advised it ofany changes in the oil company's operations as ' a result of the rift. A statement broadcast by the Saud~ state , radio said the decision was takenafter Libyan attacks"exceeded all limits, extending to the Moslem faith itself." The statement carried by Radio Riyadh said: "This could no longer be tolerated. We cannot remain silent." While cutting offrelations with the Libyan regime, Saudi Arabia would like to maintain "brotherly relations between the Saudi and Libyan peoples," the announcement added. On Oct. 19, Libyan leader Col. Moammar Khadafy, who supports Iran in the war, charged that the presence of the U.S. planes desecrated Moslem holy places in Mecca, Islam's holiest city, and called for a holy war to liberate them. -AP 
The growing anticioation of 
Americans that U.S. hostages held in Iran wiUSoon be released has not raised the public's judgement ofhow President Carter has handled the year-long confrontation, anAssociatedPress NBC . news poll says. The hostage issue has, in fact, become more entangled in the presidential election in recent weeks, as an increasing number of people say Carter's handling of the crisis has been designed to advance his re-election campaign. In addition, Americans do not favor any deal which would trade j spare parts of military equipment to Iran in exchange for the release of the 52 hostages. The recent swirl of rumors and. speculation about a possible release ofthe hostages has fueled a substantial public expectation that they will indeed be~ freed. Thirty-eight percent of those interviewed Oct. 22-24 .said they expected the hostages to be released in the next few weeks. Twenty-five percent said the release will come later this year and 21 percent expected they would still be held next year. Sixteen percent ofthe 2,40.5 adults interviewed nation-wide by telephone were not sure. By a 53-36 margin, the public disapproves of the way Carter has handled the year-long crisis. Ten percent were notsure and one percent had not heard ofthe situation. Thus, Carter has not yet benefited from the expec­tation of a peaceful end to the crisis. Public reaction to the hostages' release -when and if it comes -would depend on the condition of the hostages and the terms of the deal that freed them. -AP 
"The brain ofRonald Reagan"story line which appeared in the "Doonesbury" cartoon strip yesterday has caused a furor at newspapers all over the country. Garry Trudeau's popular strip was temporarily shelved by The Indianapolis Star and the Daytona Beach journal in Florida. How­ever, Star publisher Eugene S. Pulliam said yesterday afternoon that the entire series dealing with Reagan would be published in two days on the page opposite the editorial page instead ofin its normal position on the comic page. "We had a tremendous flood oftelephone calls" asking for the series, said Pulliam. He said some callers complained of "what they called censor­ship." -AP 
~fhe death oenalty law in Mass­
achusetts was struck down ~y the state's Supreme Court in a harshly worded 6-1 opinion that said capital punishment is "impermissibly cruel" and "brutalizes the state which imposes it." The court, ruling on a 1979 law reinstating capital punishment, said the death penalty violated the constitutional ban oncruel and unusual punishment and discriminated against minorities, "particularly blacks." The justices said the law violated the state constitution because, among other things, it is "a denial of the executed person's humanity, and a denial of all his rights." It was the second time in two weeks that a court has struck down a state's death penalty. Alabama's law was ruled unconstitutional Oct. 15 by the .5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans. California's death penalty, however, was upheld last Thursday by that state's Supreme Court. The last execution in Massachusetts was in 1947, and no one currently is under death sentence in the state. But under the law, four men could have beenexecuted ifconvicted in pending first-degree murder trials. The ruling follows a long series of court battles that began in 1972 when the U.S. Supreme Court voided all state death penalty.laws as unconstitutional. -AP 
Mostly sunnv and very cool today with highs in the mid 40s. 'Mostly clear tonight and Thursday with lows in the mid 20s. A little warmer Thursday with highs in the 50s. -AP 

Wednesday, October 29, 1980-page 2 
Inside Wednesday 


Papers grow obsolete 
Newspapers and magazines will be obsolete within the next seven years. Sound frightening? Shocking? Well, ifyou are one of the millions in this country who loves to tear apart the Sunday sports section or devour Time magazine each week, that s.:atement should make you stop and think about the direction of print journalism. 
The words for the future are going to be"cable communication." The print media will be ab­sorbed by tiny ten-cent disks which can be placed in a slot on your television. All you do is 
, flip a switch press a button and the world ofnews is yours. Literally. The bottom line of this little invention is that you would be able to read a "h()t-off-the-press" copy ofThe New York Times, Chicago Tribune or even The Dallas Star right in the privacy ofyour own living room, never having to venture again to the neighborhood news stand. Sounds good in theory but will it work, you ask? Read on. 
On my return flight back to school, I had the distinct pleasure of sitting next to a reporter from the Wall StreetJournal who was enroute to California on vacation. Having grown up in Jersey and having a business executive for a father, the WS] was always a constant fixture on our driveway every morning, I was tickled pink that we the opportunity to talk about the future of journalism. 
Most large city newspapers are.,;llready pre­paring for the time when they will revolutionize the industry by uniting with the cable TV indus­try, he explained. The big shots in the business are ready for the change, however, most of the little people like reporters, production crews and staff personnel are becoming a bit worried about their jobs. And they should be. 
'Okay," I said, "I sort of understand that this turnaround would place a lot of people on the unemployment line but would save millions of dollars in the process. Think ofall the paper the industry can save? Wouldn't it be better in the long run? · 
He looked at me out of the corner of his eye and simply said, "No. Not really. The American people will never accept it. Generation after generation has grown up reading a newspaper with their morning coffee or thumbing through a magazine on their way to work. We are not ready," he emphasized. 
"But it's progress and progress is inevitable," I said. "Look at our society, everything is being geared to and programmed for an overall take­over by computers. Why shouldn't this just be another link in this chain of events? 
"You don't understand,;, he mumbled angrily, "to adopt the cable TV system would result in a irreversible chism in society. Our lives would center around the buttons on the boob tube. We would never have to leave our living rooms because all the news that's fit to print would flash in front of our eyes in living color." 
Design Editor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Scoop Design Assistants.... Patty "the" Fox Kevin "a" Korowicki Layout Staff. ......... Bruce Oakley Day/Night Technicians . ....... Bruce Oakley MikeJans News Edttor . .. Pamela Ann Degnan Copy Editor........... Miss Cackley Sports Layout ........ Thanks, Beth! Typist .......... Marilyn Broderick Systems Technician ... Bob Huffstodt ND Day Edttor ... The lovely Molly Noland Ad Desig11 ..... .Jeanne and Woody Photographer ........... Helen Odar Guest Appearances .... Bruce Oakley, Ort, John Mcgrath, Beth Huffman  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is publishedby the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year($10 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46558. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. Tile Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductionrights are reserved.  


·Pam Degnan· 
News Editor 

I digested this information for a moment and said, "Well, just think of how better educated the average man or woman on the street will be if afforded the chance to read newspapers from all parts of the country." 
"Yes, this is true, but we will end up Sl}craficing our freedom ofindividuality by not being able to go and buy a paper or a magazine when you want to. Not being able to read it other than where a TV is set up. Is this how you want to live?" 
No, I do not want to live in a society where everything is controlled for me including how I am to 1\erceive the news. I do not want to resort to propping myself against the living room coach in front of a 19-inch diagnol every morning to catch the latest on what's happening in the country. 
More importantly, this country is founded on the principle offreedom ofpress and to combine both the print and broadcast medias into one giant conglomerate would virtually destroy this nation's individuality as far as news is concerned. The broadcast media has always had an overt tendency to exploit sensative areas of news and to utilize this type of media as our sole news channel would be downgrade the power of the press. 
Besides, I have lofty dreams of working for a newspaper or a magazine one day. But the prospects look bleak. I can and will fight against another individual for a place in the big league but I refuse to pit myself against a computer as competition. 

Observer-public service 
As a public service, The Observer publishes short 
press releases, better known as blurbs, submitted 
by campus and local organizations. All blurbs 
must be turned in no later than 1 p.m. of the 
afternoon pt:ior to publication, and they must be 
typed, double-spaced, or they will not be ac­
cepted. Blurbs, unfortunately, are not guaranteed 
publication, and are run only on a space avail­
able, priority system as designated by the news 
editors. We remind that The Observer alone 
should not be relied upon to publicize events­
to ensure some mention ofyour event, submit a 
separate entry to the On Campus Today section 
of the paper. 

The new Bruce Springsteen album, "The River" has arrived at River City Records! 
Get $1.00 off any Springsteen album or tape with ND/SMC i.d. ­now until Nov. 10! 
And register to win 2 good tickets to the sold out Nov. 20 Springsteen concert at Rosemont Horizon in Chicago. Enter at River City Records, 5.9970 U.S. 31 North. Call 277-4242 for further information. 



The Observer 
AMST sponsor 


University hosts Chautauqua 
by Sue Kelleher 
Chicago jurnalists Kenan Heise and Noran Mark spoke on "Chicago Journalism: Then and Now" in the American Studies sponsored Chautauqua Series. Last night's chautauqua, the first of three was held in the Library Auditorium. 
The chairman of the series, Professor Thomas Schlereth o­pened the session and presented the speakers before an audience of SO persons. 
Kenan Heise spoke on journ­alism in the windy city from an historical view point. He instruc­ted his audience to "remember what you think tonight, not what I say or facts or dates." Ideas and questions, he insisted, are impor­tant. 
The first Chicago papers, ap­pearing in 1833, were primarily the vocal accessories of political parties, religious groups, nation­alities and other interest groups. Heise stated that by 1848, Chicago, with a population of 20,000, had SO different papers. 
"Penny journalism", journal-
New Senate to tneet 
by Shetla Shunick 
Although the new Student Senate will not be able to go directly to the Vice-President of Student affairs with it's propo­sals, it does in fact exist and is the "power base of the students," according to Student Body Pres­ident, Paul Riehle. The Student Senate will make its proposals to a revitalized CLC, which will then make proposals to the Vice-Pres­ident of Student Affairs, Fr. Van Wolvlear. 
Four district representatives and' one off campus representa­tive will be elected to the new Senate. 


·····.·• STUDENT/FACULTV BOOK SALE i!i
Library Concourse 
October31 9-4 

October30 
9-5 

let's jamI the notre dame student union presents 

~!!!!!! country rock jam!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
featuring the vassar clements band john hall heartsfield 
radio flyerrich prezioso & kevin quigley 
ism that was intellectually and economically accessible to the masses characterized papers which cost a few cents and served the people's needs. The greatest of these, The Chicago Daily News, had the largest circulation among Chicagoans in 1876. 
By the early 1900's, the Associated Press had grown tre­mendously and was selling fran­chises. During the 1940's, Heise said, many smaller papers, due to their size were forced to merge forming larger publications, namely, The Chicago Tribune and Chicago Sun-Times. 
The impact of the Associated Press was that it standardized and limited the scope, style, and subject matter of papers. Heise hailed the New York Times as individualistic, but bemoaned the fact that its literary style is so intellectual that "it doesn't really reach out to many people who could appreciate it." 
Heise said that people want the provacative writing or "escape journalism" of tabloids such as the Enquirer, but need solid news as well. 
An organizational meeting for anyone interested in running for a district seat on the Senate will be held Thursday at 8 p.m. on the 2nd floor of Lafortune. On Monday, Nov. 3, there will be a rnandator1 meeting for those planning on running. Campaigns will begin at noon on Thursday, Nov. 6, and are scheduled to end Sunday, Nov. 9, at midnight. The primary will be held Monday, Nov. 10. If needed, campaigning for a run-off elcetion will be held the following week on Nov.12. 
• The first meeting of the new Senate will be Monday, Nov. 17, in LaFortune Little Theater. The Senate will meet every Monday thereafter. 

Why can't one paper, he asked, have both? 
Norman Mark, radio person­ality, author and host of NBC's "Today in Chicago" commented on Heise's talk. 
Mark cited mercenary editorial management as a primary re­stricting factor in terms of a re­porter's tack, style discretion in covering news. The result is "corporate journalism" in which a paper's profits have priority over the quality and accuracy of its reporting. 
Conversely, "individual journ­alism" allows reporters unlimi­ted freedom and journalists can truly serve the needs of their readers. 
In illustrating the contrast be­tween individual and corporate journalism, Mark told several humorous talc;s of individual 
(wntintml 011 page 10) 

UNICEF 
needs 
volunteers 
October 31, National UNICEF Day, marks the cul­mination of the current fund­raising activities against world hunger and malnutrition. Any­one interested in helping as a volunteer, and volunteers are needed, please contact Kathy Campanella at 283-1823. 
ATTENTION Observer Ad Sales People Important Organizational Meeting OCT. 30 6:30 SHARP 
Wednesday, October 29, 1980 -page 3 

Kenan Heise and Norman Mark prepare for their talks durifiK the Chau!rluqua Program.(photo by Helen Odar) 
52554 US 31 North 
across fror:n NORTH VILLAGE MALL 
Old English Atmosphere Excellent Steak, Prime Rib and Sea Food 
OPEN Mon-Thursday 11:30-10:00 p.m. Friday 11:30-12:00 p.m. Saturday 5 p.m.-12 p.m. Sunday 4-9 p.m. 
Longest Happy Hour in Town 

11:30-7:00 p.m. Monday-Friday · Live Entertainment 5 Nights a Week in the Lounge 

tickets: $5.00 general admission 
Make more of your weekP-nrl w1th
$4.00 w. n.d./smc i.d. 
00 
great rates on great GM CcJ' ~' 1;ood from noon Thurs through rH >ur'

available at: ndsu ticket office m-f (12-4) 
a day Mondily Car comes w1tt1 ltJil tilnk of

all river city record stores 
gas Just pay for gas usecJ ill.ld return 
• car to renting locat1on D1su >lints rio
$16

chicken barbecue 5-8 p.m. tickets $3.50 
not apply 
Unlimited Mileage Mictliana Regional Airport We try harder.




sat. nov.lst. stepancenter 
South Ben(i , ln. 234-1024 Avis features GM cars and trucks. 

The Observer Wednesday, October 29, 1980 -page 4 
Help others while you help YOURSELF.~. to a wide selection of hand crafted articles from the THIRD WORLD 
ST. FRANCIS SHOPPE 
Non Profit Organization Behind Fatima-Opposite StMary's 10-6 Mon. thru Sat. Phone 233-7467 

NDSU Social Commission 
Presents: 

"A MASQUERADE PARlY'' 
Costume Judging: Free Van Halen Tix as prizes LIVE BAND 
Free Admission and Munchies 9-1 Friday, October 31, 1980 North Dining Hall 








NBD.A lot morethan DetroitSbiggestba~k 
• 
A whole lot more. In fact, we're the larg­est bank in the tri-state area of Michigan, In­diana and Ohio. So our expertise meets the diversified financial needs of the chemical, agricultural, retailing, electronics and trans­portation industries. Plus many other busi­nesses located throughout the entire Great Lakes region. 
Nationally, we serve a substantial number of the Fortune 500 companies in the U.S., including 22 of the top 25. 
National Bank of Detroit understands that business and industry require financial flex­ibility to operate successfully. And because we're creative and have the necessary re­sources, we have been able to help more businesses grow over the past 4 7 years than 

An Equal Opportunity Employer MIF-We Employ the Handicapped 
... Issues 
any other bank in the area. 

NBD is the lead bank of National Detroit Corporation, a bank holding company, with assets in excess of ten billion dollars. Over the years, our reputation for liquidity has been excellent. Just as it is today. Which means NBD can consistently accommodate banking needs through economic ups and downs. 
There· s a lot more to be said, but we think our record speaks for itself. 
NATIONAL BANK OF DETROIT 
611 Woodward Avenue Detroit, Michigan 48226 

The Kemp-Roth Bill has been calculated by some economists to cost the Treasury $16.1 billion the first year, $42.4 billion the second and $77.5 billion the third. When Reagan is asked how he plans to increase arms ex­penditures, balance the budget and also follow the Kemp-Roth plan without inducing inflation, he explains that "some of the best" economists in this country have supported him and also that President Kennedy used the same device and it "worked fine." 
However, the author of that early 1960's plan, Walter Heller, scoffs at Reagan's program. In fact, he has referred to Reagan as the "conservatives' economic guru" and the"RepublicanSanta Clau . " The reality, according to Heller, is that this is a completely different time than ~ennedy's; there was no inflation then, though they suffered ser­ious unemployment. Conditions are utterly different today. One respected conservative, former Nixon adviser Herbert Stein, has likened the probability of the program's success to "human life on Mars." He added, "I would not invest much in a McDonald's franchise on Mars." 
On the other hand, Prof. Claude Renshaw of the Busi­ness/Economics Department at Saint Mary's, supports the Kemp-Roth Bill completely; he finds it "very much in order as a form of indexing, which keeps people from being pushed into higher tax brackets." He also believes taxes should be made simpler, more straightforward so there is less incentive for people to find ways around the tax. Renshaw disagrees with the "government band-aid ap­proach." He finds it "amazing how the government has tink­ered with the economy more in 
the last two years than ever before," and he finds it "r.cary how the government, with Carter's massive economy pro­gram as evidence, is going to use the tax laws and the Federal Reserve Board to regulate the economy." 
In opposition to Renshaw is Prof. Michael Francis of the Government Department, who decries Reagan's plan as an "utterly simplistic pipe dream." According to TRB of The New Republic magazine, "He (Reagan) makes everything simple. The economy? Balance the budget, slash expenditures, cut taxes." 
"Inflation," John Andeil!lon recently noted, "not only robs the American consumer of pur­chasing power, it also saps the health of the economy, leading ultimately to recession and e onomic stagnation." In recog­nizing inflation as the nation's number one problem, Anderson, , unlike Carter (who lays the blame on business and labor), believes the responsibility for inflation "rests on the doorstep of the Federal Government" 
Anderson's major stand calls for the elimination of unneces­sary federal spending. He is the only presidential candidate who is not calling for a tax cut, because he feels that balancing the budget is the first priority. Toward this end, Anderson in­troduced legislation in Congress to revamp the Congressional budget-making process and re­quire the President to submit a balanced budget to Congress. Anderson ~so supportS new tax 
(continued on page 5) (continued from page 1). 

eral budget, the Republicans have charged that Carter is hi­king spending to hold down un­employment in an election year -even at the risk offueling 
more  inflation.  Carter  refutes  
this  claim,  supporting  his  in­ 
crease  in  expenditures  as  the  

result of the automatic increases in Social Security and welfare payments. 
Reagan, however, stands by the Republican belief of fiscal and monetary restraint; a laissez­faire or"hands-off' approach. He believes balancing the budget is essential, but through federal re­straint not higher taxes. In gen­eral, Reagan is proposing lower taxes, cuts in spending, and ma­jor reductions in the federal bureaucracy. Reagan has been confronted with the fact that he has been highly critical of President Carter's economic re­cord, yet he has proposed sub­stantially the same plan Carter proposed four years ago. The difference, says Reagan, is that he intends to keep his promises. 
In the area of taxes the Democrats believe all Americans must "bear a fair share of our economic burden and a fair share of our economic benefits." President Carter has, in his ten­ure, proposed to Congress what he terms the "most comprehen­sive and far-reaching set of tax reform proposals ever made by any Administration." Carter is now calling for reforms which will encourage savings, close tax loopholes, simplify tax codes and encourage capital formation. 
Reagan supports across-the­board reductions in personal income tax rates. A plan referred to as the Kemp-Roth Bill calls for implementation ·of a )) percent cut over a three year period. This plan has fallen under sharp cri­ticism for its apparent catering to those in higher income brackets. Reagan argues that they are each getting an equal share oftheir tax burden lifted. 
Prof. Bob Borengasser of the Business/Economics Depart­ment at Saint Mary's, agrees, saying, "It would benefit each (income) group equally well." 
-~~------~-~ 



---------~------­The Observer Wednesday, October 29, 1980 -page 5 
Riehle protnotes 'po"Wer base' 


by Earl Rix 

At the HPC meeting in Flanner last night Student Body Presi­dent Paul Riehle announced that elections for the new Student Senate will be held on Monday, November lOth. An informa­tional meeting will be held at 
8:00 p.m. Thursday in the stu­dent government offices in La Fortune for persons wishing to run for the Senate. A mandatory meeting for those seeking elec­tion will take place at 8:00 p.m. Monday, November 3rd at the same location. The Senate's first meeting is planned for Novem­ber 17. 
As dictated by the Board of Trustees, theStudent Senate will make recommmendations to the CLC which in turn makes recommendations to the Vice­President of Student Affairs. Although Riehle had hoped the new Senate could bypass the CLC, he said,"I think we can still do a lot ofthings and we will have 
...Issues 

(wntinued from page 4) 
incentives and capital invest­ments. 
Prof. Bob Borengasser of the Business/Economics Depart­ment at Saint Mary's, has pro­claimed Anderson, "A political realist who knows you don't cut taxes until you cut government 
' 
to use the new Senate as a power base." 
Riehle said that one of the first issues to confront the new Sen­ate will be the restructuring of the CLC. ·~r think we will see a CLC different from what we saw in the past," Riehle said. 
Other topics of converstion included the announcement ofa Masquerade party to be held at 
9:00 Friday in the north dining hall. Food, drink and music will be provided free of charge. The Sowder Trophy, awarded for best hall activities, was awarded to Alumni for the month of Sep­tember. 

expenditures." 
Anderson had referred to "bracket creep" which erased tax cuts by pushing taxpayer in­comes into higher tax brackets. Anderson has co-sponsored a bill to "index" the tax rates for in­flation. 
He has also proposed a plan to usc revenues from a federal tax on alcohol and tobacco, which will increase if necessary, to pay for an annual urban reinvest­ment plan and mass transit trust fund to aid cities. 
Archies invite leftovers 
Question: What do Richard 
Nixon, three-week-old pumpkin 
pie, andnydrogen bomb fallout 
radiation have in common? 
Answer: They're all "things 
you can't get rid of," i.e. '"Leftovers," and would fit right into the theme of this year's 
Beaux Arts Ball. 
All ND-SMC students are cqr­
dially invited to get creative and 
go crazy at 9:00 p.m. this Satur­
day night, Nov. 1, in the lobby of 
the Architecture Building. The 
Rockefellers, from Chicago, will 
be playing and refreshments will 
be provided. Come as your 
favorite leftover. 
To stimulate interest in this 
momentous occasion, a case of 
Michelob has been hidden 
somewhere on the Notre Dame 
campus. The lucky finder will 
also receive two tickets to the 
ball. Clues are being provided in 
each day's Observer this week. 
Happy Hunting! 
* 1621 South Bend Ave.* 200 N. Main St. * 1426 Mishawaka Ave. * 4401 S. Michigan
SOUTH BEND, 233-4603 ELKHART, 295-6310 287-7744 291-2600 
6502 Grape Rd. * 254 Dixie Hwy. North * 1725 N. Ironwood
2934 E. McKinley Ave.* 
MISHAWAKA, 277-7176 ROSELAND, 272-2522 272-7144
233-9466 
STORE HOURS: 

WSA'
Mon. thru Thun. 

-
8 a.m. to 10 p.m. Fri. & Sat. 
8 a.m. -11 p.m.
• 

~~rdoa~
Vodka 
' 

. 799 
1.75 Ltr. 

Mountain 
Ch~lil~==hw, 399 
Yin RCJw' 1.5 Bui'J'Indy Ch•bll• liter 
Medici Lambru~<:o .............. 100 .... 221 yoro s • ..,n. .0 
-· 
!;~~~PI~~~~: ............... I.SU1.,211 
Blue Nun, Grnnan ...... , •..• , .... , 750 mi. 3" Rhirw, Ch1bll1, Row', BuriUndY .••• ,,,.,, U Lil• 
Keller Geiater ................... 100 mi. 
.... 

-~-~-------------~ 
The Observer Wednesday, October 29, 1980 -page 6 _ 
... D.O.E. 


River City Records 8c Jam Productions Present 
VANHALEN 
IN C()NCERT 

Special Guest 
TALAS 
Thursday, November 6 • 8 p.m. Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets: $8.50 reserved seats still available at the ACC Box Office and River City Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North -3 miles north of campus. 
River City Records 8c Jam Productions Present 

Friday, November 14 • 8:00 p.m. Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets: $9.00/$8.00 all seats reserved. Good seats still available at the ACC Box Office and River City Records, 5C~70 U.S. 31 North -3 miles north of campus 

(continued from page 1) 
letter to the DOE manager of the Nevada Test Site, has requested ''all data and reports pertaining to the Sept. 25 gas release." She also stressed the need for ''appropriate notifica­tion mechamsms so that we can effectively respond to fu­ture radiation releases from the Nevada Test Site." 
Said Myers, in an interview, ''These weapons tests have presented a health hazard in the past, and we're concerned that they might again in the future.'' 
Utah Environmental Health Director Alvin Rickers took much the sall1e attitude. "I think notification has got to be improved,'' he said. 
In addition to the contro­versy over the delay in notifica­tion, some experts have also expressed concern that radio­active gases other than Xenon­133, which is less hazardous than other radioactive gases, was the only substance from the blast picked up by off-site monitors when they finally were turned on. It was moni­tored at 44 picocuries per cubic meter of air at Lathrop Wells-­about 20 times the normal background radition level, but 
not  enough  to  represent  a  
health  hazard,  according  to  
federal officials.  

Dr. Karl Z. Morgan, profes­sor of nuclear engineering at the Georgia Institute of Tech­nology and a leading expen on radiation effects, said that the failure to promptly monitor the release may account for the apparent absence of other ra­dtoactive gases. ' 'The first few hours are the most imponant,'' he said. "If you don't make you measurements when the cloud is going over, it's too late." 
Morgan said he believes "there's no question that there was a release of other noble gases,'' as well as possibly other radioactive isotopes such as Iodine-131 which is extreme­ly hazardous. 
A niclear chemist and gov­ernment consultant, with over 20 years experience of monitor­ing nuclear fallout, went be­yond Morgan's conclusioin, but requested anonymity. He termed the DOE account of the incident "absolutely ridiculous. Ifyou have one fisston product, like the Xenon-133 they've admitted to," he said, "you have all the others, including Iokine-131, which is most dan­gerous in this situation." 




Wednesday, October 29, 1980 -page 7
Editorials 

P.O. BoxQ
Return Brademas 

Chval pro... 
myself to Craig Chval's column of The Observer recommends that incumbent Third District 
Thursday, October 16. Simply
Dear Editor, Students
stated, his article was an attack onCongressman John Brademas be returned to the House of Represen­
On behalf of myself and many 
Philadelphia Phillies fans. Thetatives for a twelfth term. Brademas, House Majority Whip, should be 
other Notre Dame supporters, I 
following was one of Chval's moregiven his fair share of the blame for this nation's current economic 
would like to say "hats otr' to Craig 
profound remarks: " ... the fans of make bestproblems. However, in The Observer's opinion this alone does not 
Chval for his very timely article on 
Philadelphia prove themselves tomerit his expulsion from office. Brademas has worked hard over the 
Mike Courey in the October 9 issue 
be the scum of the earth ... " years to see that Northern Indiana and, in particular Notre Dame, 
of The Observer entitled "Mission 
After reading his remarks, Ihave received their quota of governnment projects and aid. While Impossible." commentators
wondered why I read The Observer. 
many would like to see political newcomer John Hiler in Brademas's 
It makes you stop and ask your­
Is it to be insulted when I read the seat, The Observer believes that Hiler's policies are based on a 
self, what more can Mike Courey 
sports page? I think not. Rather tophilosophy of"change for change's sake" and not on years of public 
do? Can the coaching staff really 
get a general picture of the sportsexperience as are the policies of Brademas. 
believe that Mike should be sitting 
world outside this great university. 
on the bench instead of quarter­
1I'm afraid that Craig Chval fell Dear Editor, One of the young breed of conservative Republican newcomers, 
backing the Notre Dame football 
short ofmy expectations; distorting Who knows more about NotreHiler is practically a carbon copy of Republican standard-bearer 
team? I have asked myself this ques­
and exaggerating the truth to fit his Dame football than true NotreRonald Reagan. Hiler is opposed to the Equal Rights Amendment and 
tion many times but cannot find the 
own views. Although sports Dame fans? And who are betterwould repeal the Windfall Profits Tax. He is a staunch proponent of 
rationale behind the decision. 
columns lend themselves to fans than ND/SMC students? NoRepublican economics and favors the Kemp-Roth tax bill. Hiler 
Mike Courey has done everything 
opinion, the opinion expressed one. That's why student-runclaims to be a champion ofsmall businessmen, yet his policies seem to 
humanly possible to secure the 
should be built on more than mere WSND has the best coverage ofreflect the ideas of big business. 
starting quarterback position at 
accusation and name calling. Notre Dame Sports. Brademas is runnning on the strength of his record. He claims that 
Notre Dame. He has displayed the 
The Observer is a great news­J.P. Wilmouth (Oct. 15) is not were it not for him, Northern Indiana might not now have several 
talent and leadership expected ofthe 
paper in that it serves the campus alone in his dissatisfaction with federally sponsored projects which create jobs and revenue. Hiler's 
position in his four previous starts as 
community well in both providing Irish football broadcasts. But ap­opposition to goverment spending would rule out such products. In a 
the Irish quarterback. Yet, he is still 
news and shaping student opinion. parently he hasn't discovered the state which ranks second only to Michigan in unemployment, Hiler's 
being overlooked by Dan Devine 
This is reason enough to keep mud­strategy employed by many fans plan to reject federal help is discouraging and dangerous. 
and his staff. But this is nothing new 
slinging the likes of Chval's out of who watch the games at home ­
at Notre Dame. Just ask Joe 
print. turn the TV volume down and turnThe Observer will stick with John Brademas so long as he keeps 
Montana! How many times did Joe 
Bob Gleason on the radio! WSND AM 640plugging away in the halls of Congress for Notre Dame and Northern have to prove himself? 

broadcasts all home and awayIndiana. 
It almost seems as if Mike Courey 
games (except Alabama) with the 
wasn't supposed to have the kind of 
vigor and insight that comes with 

game he had against Purdue. Nor 
being true lovers of Irish Football. 
was he supposed to lead Notre Conservatives And we know the difference be­
Dame to a touchdown and the lead 
tween the University of Arizona 
over Michigan with three minutes 
and Arizona State!
Bayh for Senate 
left in the game. Dan Devine's plan lack 
Kevin 0. Gessler 

to start Mike Courey for one game 
Station Manager, WSND 
backtired when Mike's debut aginst 
In Indiana's senatorial contest, The Obsen•er endorses Democratic 
creativity
Purdue proved more than success­

incumbent Birch Bavh for a fourth term. Bayh has been involved in a 
ful. particularly tough ~ontest with Congressman Danforth Quayle. 
For no obvious reason. Dan Quayle is backed by big-money conservative coalitions and big 
Devine and Ron Toman decided to 
business. Quayle is in favor ofincreased defense spending and reduced 
Neglected
start the first freshman quarterback 
Dear Editor, 
federal spending. He also favors a balanced budget and a tax cut. 
since 1951. That is all well and good. 
Three cheers for the poll show­Bayh has voted against Republican tax plans and has shown 
but it's a shame it had to come at the 
ing a trend toward conservative
moderation in defense spending. He is a supporter of ERA, a believer expense of senior quarterback Mike rider
thinking/voting in Notre Dame andthat an individual has the right to decide for herself on the abortion 
Courey, a dedicated athlete who has 
Saint Mary's students. I meanissue, and a leading proponent of gasohol. 
proven himself to everyone. 
what better way to show ourUltimately this race, like so many others this year, is a contest 
I would like to see Frank Broyles 
devotion to social justice than tobetween two conflicting political philosophies. Quayle represents the and Keith Jackson try to analyze this board 
elect candidates whose chief con­conservative faction which hopes to halt inflation, unemployment and 
turn of events after watching Mike 
cern is to unthinkingly maintain our other economic worries through a balanced budget. tax cuts, and 
Courey against Purdue. I'm sure 
wasteful standard of living andincentives to big business. Bayh represents the moderate approach 
they would be as surprised as we are. 
.return to a Cold War mentality inwhich refuses to abandon many of the progressive, yet expensive, 
Dear Editor: Joe Conlon 
foreign policy?
reforms ofthe past in order to relieve a beleagured economy. From his Does anyone know who the rider 

Come on, ND/SMC, let's try to many years in the Senate Bayh knows that broad, little-known board in the Huddle belongs to?
transcend those petty concernseconomic reforms such as the conservative philosophy champions are The manager ofthe Student Center, with our precious standard ofliving un-tested, somewhat contradictory and risky. 
the Student Government, theand evaluate candidates on how
Quayle contends that when Bayh was elected _18 ye~rs ago times ...Chval con Student Union, Ombudsman and
well they creatively deal with the were different and, consequently, Bayh has outlived his usefulness. 
the Huddle all deny responsibility. 
problems of the most needy in theWhile many of the issues have changed since 1968, the merits of a Therefore, I submit my dilemma to Dear Editor, U.S. and the world.
moderate, corageuos man like Bayh have not. The persistence with the whole Notre Dame communityAs a member of a seemingly Ben Clementswhich he has stuck to his views in these years is proof of this. The for consideration.
small group of Philadelphia sports 
Obsen•er reccomends that Bayh be returned to the Senate. 
The "rider" board is full of
fans at Notre Dame, I address 
messages including many dealing with things other than rides. Signs on the wall around the rider board are systematically removed

Doonesbury by Garry Trudeau 


although the board is full. This means someone who wishes to ad­





fi~TS70f, 7Hl3/DTHEM/5PH&Re 
/15 YOV CANSEe, M4NY NERVCS 

S7UPI£5 HAV/35/fJIN7fVJ.T9J3Jf:C!5NOT 
51ZN IN lH/5 tiGHT. MR. REJJ6AN'S 
Of !?EAOAN5 CEf?EIJRJ,M. lFA{J{{l{)N­
vertise for rides or riders must
/1/.L/JWf,/J lJStEiP/IN!}f)/?&AM BeCIJM&
IN 7HI5 PMTOF liE BRAINARE 

ABIL.ITY 7D RECOfoCII.&HUfit lAX 
IIUY. 7H15 IS THe f()Mc OF /.061C, 
fi?AW. lH£ R/(j(}/!S a= 7H& CAM­

Ht6H/JI06!lNtll. lH£ 9RAJNNEeflS 70 
become a bad guy by removing or
a.JT5 IAIITH MA9S/Vl3 MIIJTARY
fIINALYS/5 ANIJ cnncAL 7HINK/Nr3. 
PAIGN ll?Ail-, PARTICUI.ML.Y 7J£ I.ACJ< 

SP!NIJING MU5T~ VIEf/A/13[) 
covering someone else's sign in 

IA/fTH st»fe ..,Y,..VZJ .r H y
OF S/.£CP, HAVf TIIJ<£N TJ1£1R 70/..L. · 

order to post his o~n. The problem would be solved if the (unknown) Keeper-of-the-Board would show some concern for the problem. There are three alternatives -a bigger board, smaller signs, or allowing students to use all the walls in the rider board room. 
Michael Gazzerro 


Editorial Board and Department Managers
==Ihe__Qbse&ver.== 
Editor-in-Chief .......... Paul Mullaney Sports Editor ............ Beth Huffman 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46~56 

·Managing Editor ............. Mark Rust Features Editor ........... Molly Woulfe 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
: Editorials Editor ......... Mike Onufrak .Photo Editor_.~.· ........• : •.John Macor
University of Notre Dame du ~-c and_ Saint ~ary'~ C?llege. It does not ~ecessanly 
r Senior Copy Editor . ........ Lynne Daley 
reflect the policies of the admmistranon of elthe~ m~ntunon. The news ~~ r_eported Business Manager ......... Greg Hedges as accurately and as objectively as possible.-Edlto_n~ls represent the op1mon _of a 'l:!.xecutive News Editor .... Tom Jackman Controller................... .Jim Rudd majority of the Editorial Board. _Comn;tentane,s, opmtons, and letters are th_e v1ews • News Editor .............. Pam Degnan Advertising Manager . ......... Mark Ellis 
their authors. Column s~_>ace IS available to all members of the c~mmumty, and · SMC Executive Editor .... Margie Brassil Circulation Manager....... Beth Hackett 
the free expression of varymg opinions on campus, through letters, 1s encouraged. jProduction Manager ..... .John McGrath
· SMC f:lews Editor .. ......•. Mary Leavitt 

-
----~~~--~------~--~-­
I 
I I ' The Observer=.=-= . .. 
I 
I 
~~c:llC3L~========================~==e=dn=e=s=d=ay='=O==ct=o=b=e=r=29=,=1=9=8=0=-==p=ag=e=8= 
Campus 
•11:15 
a.m. -dance program -ballet folklorico mexicana, sponsor: dept. of modern languages, o'laugh­lin aud. 

•12:15 
p.m. -dept. of microbiology seminar ­"metabolic effects of vita­min b6 & its antagonist, 4'­deoxypyridoxine, dr. stephen p. coburn, ft. wayne st. hospital & training cen­ter, 278 galvin. 

•4:20 
p.m. -physics dept. colloquium -"super­conducting magnets," dr. roger boom, u. of wise. 118 nieuwland. 

•4:30 
p.m. -reilly lee-. ture in chemistry -"the I folate requiring enzymes involved in de novo purine biosynthesis," dr. stephen j. benkovic, 128 nieuwland. 

•6p.m.-campusscout meeting in the breen phillips puzzle room. 

•7:30 
p.m. -interview­ing skills and resume writing workshop sponsored by n.d. management club, room 120 hayes healy. 

• 
7:30 p.m. -theatre­second scene, little theatre moreau hall, sponsor: dept. ofcommunication & theatre, free. 

• 
8 p.m. -chautaugua program, session II -"the irish in chicago: politics & journalism," charles fanning, author; thomas brown, author, mem. library aud. 

• 
9 p.m. -nazz open stage. 


Beaux Arts clue 
Today's Beaux Arts Ball clue for the hidden case of beer: 
"Sit down, but don't get com­fortable." 
Band pictures 
Band Members: 
Please pay .for all pictures by Thursday at noon. For more in­formation, please read the bul­letin board in the band room. 


1 London district

The Daily Crossword 
5 Rigging support 
9 Made: abbr. 12 Roman poet 13 Valletta's 
land 14 Oftheear 16 Lois or 
Abbe 17 Dvorak 18 Military 
school 
letters 
19 "The­Cross" (hymn) 
21 Villain's expression 
:I. FIND MObT OF 711/5 CHALL£N6/NGAND INTRIC:?VINGr 

tc-1~
({0 )1 

11 IT'S HAAD10 

~~
FLI{ WHEN '(OU 
'"'-'
HAVE THE 
I

D Do
0 
---~~~ 
ACROSS 

Michael Molinelli 
ANP JUST THINK I 
TENNESSEE TDXEDO 
15 ON AI 2=30 

Charles M. Schulz 
I GUESS 
rr} 


13 Wise men 58 Tidy
© 1980 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd.lnc. 
-15 Supervision 60 -relief
All Rights Reserved 22 Grandstand 48 Make 20 Useful 

section unhearlng 21 Homily: 23 Prim 51 Olden days abbr. 24 Field: pref. 53 Blues 23 -boom 27 SUcking 54 "Onward -24 Thick rug 
fish Soldiers" of India 29 TradiUonal 59 Pealed 25 Coli. subj. 31 Dapper-60 Footwear 26 Hymn title 32 Allowance . 61 Der-28 Address to 
for waste (Adenauer) an unknown 36 Food 62 "Kiss Me-" 29 Rep. handlers 63 Fred or 30 Empty 36 Of ey• Woody 33 Chest sound 
lashes 64 Tissue 34 Indian 40 Communlcate65 River In 35 Ship's 41 Relative of Belgium chain 
"Roger'' 66 Gang or 37 English 43 Oriental young coin: abbr. 
laborer 67 Way out 39 Is defeated 44 Mount of -42 Door part 47 Snicker-DOWN 45 French 
1 Alone article 2 Elliptic 46 Assembly 3 Deer line worker 4 Baltic 48 Foreboding 
feeder 49 Peer 5 Stable 50 Relative, 
trough familiarly 6 Changed 52 " •.•Lord Is 7 Danish Today" 
glottal (hymn) 
sound 54 Young horse 8 Sunburn 55 London 9 "How Firm museum 
A-" (hymn) 56 Holly 10 Voyaging 57 Gudrun's 11 t.Q. man husband 

S.U. VAN LINES is running weekends again 
Restaurant Discounts offered on the route: (with Student 10) Pizza Hut (10 %) Villa Capri (10 %) Brown's Chicken (10 %) Village Inn Pizza (10 %) Ponderosa (10 %) Shangi Hi (10 %) Eddie's (10 %) ·and Movie Theaters on the route offer discount tickets: 
Plitt (Town & Country) $2.25 Forum $1.75 University Park $2.25 
-available through the Ticket Office, 2nd Floor LaFortune 
Ride VAN LINES: $1.00/semester-ticket office Services Commission 
Halloween Day Sale 


JUST FOR THE RECORD Buy 3 -Get 1 Free Get your 4th single, LP or tape selection for free 
Friday, Oct. 31, 1980 
10:00 a.m.-10:00 p.m. 
JUST FOR THE RECORD 100 CENTER, MISHAWAKA ($ off coupons not good on sale items) 



--------~---~ ~--~-­
The Observer Wednesday, October 29, 1980 -page9 

Colorado tops Bottont Ten 
comptled by Rob Simari and Skip DeJjardin 

Itseems that every sports column in the country 
has dealt with the possible candidates for the 
Notre Dame head coaching job. Since the August 
edition of the Dan "I'm-Ready-for-Prime-Time" 
Devine Show on ABC, dozens ofnames have been 
mentioned. However, the Bottom Ten has 
learned, from a highly placed, secret source known 
only as "The Devil in Miss Jones," that everyone 
has been on the wrong track. Reportedly, Fr. Ed Joyce has decided that the time has come for Notre Dame to take a step toward Bottom Ten supremacy. 
Accordingly, a whole new list ofcandidates has 
arisen. These are the men that the Bottom Ten 
voters consider most qualified to turn Notre 
Dame's program around 
Topping all lists is Colorado's Chuck Fairbanks. After Fairbanks took over, a mediocre Colorado program quickly became the nation's worst Voters agree that Chuck could do the same under the Golden· Dome. 
There are a couple ofcoaches who would like to follow in the footsteps of their predecessors, and into the Notre Dame job. Ara Parseghian moved from Northwestern to legend, and Rick Venturi would like to do the same thing. Last week he led the Wildcats to their seventeenth straight loss, so he has the credentials. Dan Devine went from the pro ranks to the college level, and his successor at Green Bay, Bart Starr, should be out ofa job soon. Starr is looking to make a move similar to Devine's. 
But not everyone wants to move down from the pros. Recently, everyone's list has included a high school coach, and we have a candidate ofour own. He is Dr. Harry Faustus, who has turned Cincinnati's Incisor High School from gold to lead. 
Other men have been mentioned prominently. Former Arizona State head coach Frank Kush is available, and would add some punch to the Irish 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Buy Classifieds from 
The Observer 

~ICHAEL STANLEY BANe 

Live at St. Mary'sThurs. Oct. 30th 8:00 p.m. O'Laughlin Aud 
ON SALE NOW 

SMC Ticket Office  Reserved Seating  
1 ND-SMC Dining Halls  $7  

HERTZ 

ECONOMY FARES, 

s 

FROM$17.99 AD~ 
Call234-3712 These Economy Fafus are 
Touring Rates, subject to change without notice and non discountable. There are minimum day and advance reservation requirements, and ( ~ restrictions on when 
where~~ ''*':f

must be returned. Gas is not included. Call • Hertz for details. ® 
WI..WINNIIS liNT~ 
HERTZ RF.NTS FOHI:IS ANI> (mtF.H ANF. CAJto. 

offense. Michigan State's Muddy Waters promised 
to change the uniforms back to blue if he got the 
job. A Chicago Cubs man, Joey Amalfitano, says 
that he'll take the job, butonly onan interim basis. 
Since Digger Phelps oversees both men's and 
women's basketball, he might as well undertake a 
restructuring of the football program as well. 
Digger would probably change the uniforms to 
Robin's Egg Blue. 

Don Zimmer is out of a job and may be a 
candidate. Ronald Reagan is a candidate and may 
be out of a job. He proved he can lead a loser in 
"Bedtime for Bonzo." 

By the way, here are the rankings: 
1) Colorado (0-7) -have given up 49 points per game 
2) Northwestern (0-8)-even the San Diego Chicken couldn't help this week 
3) Vanderbilt (0-6)-have lost 28 consecutive SEC contests 
4) Cincinnati (0-7)-looking forward to this week's Richmond Spider game 
5) Oregon State (0-6)-we didn't know Long Beach St. had a football team-but the Beavers managed a 31-21 loss 
6) TCU (0-6)-Horned Frogs held hostage: Week Six 
7) Oklahoma State (0-5-1)-scored 14 points the hard way: aID, an FG, and two safeties to tie Kansas 
8) Penn (1-5)-disappointed a homecoming crowd of 6800 and lost 8-0 to Yale 
9) Columbia (1-5)-were brushed aside by Colgate, 35-22 
10) New Orleans Saints (0-8)-more than the 
Mississippi River dumps on New Orleans. 
Also receiving votes: 
Michigan State (1-6) 
Toledo (1-6) 

Colorado's Sellout Crowd (0-64,000) 
Quote of the Week: Lou Holtz, Arkansas head 
coach, on consistency: "Right now, we're not very consistent. Of course, the only people who are consistent all the time are dead peo le." 
---N 
' 

Make a ~py of your Favorite 
~~!~'"'~~~~~ly ¢ 
Copying Service! Guaranteed perfect monaural copies, every time. 
What can you copy? 
The potential uses for cassette copies are endless. Here are just a few of the most common applications: lectures, seminars, language labs, meetings, college classes, sermons, sales messages, weddings, interviews, talking letters, family events, relaxations, exercises, word-processing data, and computer programs. 
··--------------------------------·This coupon is redeemable for one (1) cassette copy of your original cassette for only 99t:.. I
I 

I Any additional copies of your original cassette are at the prices below: Simply bring your I I original cassette and this coupon with you. The copy cassette and the copying service are I 1 included in one price. I 
I Your Original Regular Price High-Speed : 

with Straight Flush Nov. 6 -Alex DeGrassi with Rick Walters Nov. 7 & 8 -The 3rd Street 
Sliders  
Nov. 12 ­ Free Spirit  
Nov. 13 ­ Jeff Lorber Fusion  
with Free Spirit  

Nov. 14-New grass Revival with Pink & the Naturals 

~ Cassette Length Per Capy 
30 minute $2.19I YJ minute $2.89 I 90 minute $3.79 I 120 minute $4.79 
I I 12e2()lNDCASSrnEcOPYINGCENTERS
I 

I 
I 
Retailer Redemption Procedure: When cashing this coupon, please circle the copy cassette size and initial it aline time of purchase. Then anytime after the date of this promotion, send us your coupons for redemption. We will replace each coupon 
I 
with a fresh cassette and invoice you at seventy cents ($.70) each regardless of cassette size. Send to: 1401-B West River 
I 
RoadNorth,Mpls.,MN55411 
ThisCauponExpires 11/15/80 
·-------------------------------··· 
Copying Time I 
1 minute I 2 minutes I 3 minutes 4 minutes I 
I Available Exclusively at: . I
"r'b A '(' I 
~. e H MMEJ 1 
I

NOTRE DAME 
I

BOOKSTORE I 
Form 1380 




The Observer Wednesday, October 29, 1980 -page 10 
Irish victory in Boston 
Women rowers win regatta
... Items 
(continued from pag_e 12), 

(Fla.). Underwood reports the vast Japanese interest in 
American football, an interest which cost Tele Planning 
International (which put together the Mirage Bowl package)$3 
million and grossed $4 million. 

Atsushi Fujita, the president of Tele Planning, envisions a 
four-team Japanese professional football league which would 
be "totally commercial." Teams would not be named after 
animals or birds or factory workers, but after sponsors, e.g. 
Tokyo Sony or Osaka Panasonic, just as the Mirage Bowl was named after an automobile. What happened to sports for pleasure? 
ahe WinJjammer 

HAIR STVLI"'G FO~ DISCRIMINATING Mf:N & WOMEN 
-Soulh Bend, lnd•ona 46628 
IIAII•SIIS FOITJI 
-~ $(1($ 

!f 
232-6622 

I 
~ ~ 
I 
f 
,I 
I 
' 
I
, 
I
, 
I 
r 
I' 
by Steve O'Brien 

Boston, Mass.-With almost two and half months of training behind them, the Notre Dame Rowing club ventured to Bean­town for the annual Head of the Charles regatta. The Irish women conquered the field to receive first place golds. 
The Head of the Charles is the biggest single day regatta in the world and the largest head race in North America. It was truly an event worth watching that Sun­day a,s nearly eighty thousand spectators crowded the banks of the Charles to watch approxi­mately seven hundred and twen­ty boats race. The competition ranged from local high school teams to college teams, rowing clubs and the U.S. and West German teams. 
Preparation for the "Head" is especially difficult since it is a three mile race, and essentially is a race against the clock. Besides the countless miles run by the members of the team and coach, Clete Graham, the team prac­tices six days a week at 5:15a.m. and rows up to fourteen miles a day on the St. Joe River. 
Many different types of boats competed in the "Head." The Irish sent a men's eight man boat, one women's eight, one light­weight four-man boat where the average weight must be one hundred sixty five pounds per person and one mixed boat (four men, four women). With up to forty boats in each division the competition was fierce. I wit­nessed one team ecstatic at their finish of thirteenth. For the men's eight the "Head" was the beginning of a long week as they were scheduled to row in the Head of the Schuylkill in Philadelphia after a few days. The men's eight had a difficult; they came out strong, but_a little too strong. In their anxiousness to row a strong race the team had trouble pacing themselves for the grueling three miles upriver. The men posted sixteenth in club eights, while the mixed eight placed eighteenth, and the light four finished twenty­seventh. No matter how the boats finished, the team had a great time in Boston thanks to their hosts, Mr. and Mrs. George Williams. Mr. Williams is the president of the alumni associ­ation as well as a member of the Board ofTrustees. I'm sure feed­ing thirty six athletes was no easy task. The biggest highlight ofthe trip was the victory of the women's eight. 

The women's eight-man(?) boat led by Capt. Rita Harrington and coxed by Pauline Rodriguez rowed an ex­cellent race. As they waited nervously for the results they had no idea how well they had actually done. When they found out they had won the women's club eights they were ecstatic. One ]Jnidentified member ofthe team said, "Boy, am I going to get drunk tonight!" This was an especially sweet victory for the women's coachJill DeLucia, as it was her first race as women's coach. 
Following proper rowing cus­tom the Irish women tossed coxswain Rodriguez into the river after their victory. As Pauline emerged from the water, a local TV reporter asked her how it felt to win, soaking wet from the polluted Charles river, Pauline replied, "It feels great, really great." 
' ' .AMST 
(continued from page 3) 
journalists such as Mike Royko, Eugene Field, and Ben Hecht­that he met as a reporter for the Chicago Daily News. 
Ideally, Mark said, all news should be presented in a fascin­ating way that relates to the ev­eryday life of its readers. 
Tonight's Chautauqua topic is "The Irish in Chicago Politics and Journalism" and tomorrow night's sesssion will be on "Poli­tics and the Press in Contemp­orary Chicago". Both sessions will take place in the Library Auditorium at 8 PM. 
University honors director 
Rev. Robert ]. Austgen, C.S.C., director of graduate ad­missions and the summer session at the University ofNotreDame, has been elected president ofthe Association of University Sum­mer Sessions at the October con­ference in Boulder, Colo. 
A member of the University administration since 1970, he has been the recipient ofdegrees at Fribourg University in Swit­zerland, Gregorian University in Rome and Notre Dame. 

The Observer Wednesday, October 29, 1980 -page 11 
lnterhall 
RACQUETBALL 

The Single• Rocqu.tball Tournament lor Foil 1980 will be alngle elimination. Each match conaiata of three gamea (beot of three oarieo). 
The pairing for these tournaments will appear 
each Thuroday in TIN Observer. It lethe reopon· olbllity of the particlpont to contact hio or her opponent and aet up a match In each round. (Phone numbero are liotad In parentheoio below). The reoultt of these matchea must be turned In, in peroon. to the lnterhall Office bofore noon on the following Wedneadey. 
Failure to report the reaulta of these metehea to 
the lnterholl Office will mean dioqualification of both partlciponto. Reoulto will only be accepted if the participants have completed the proper interhall inaurance forma. After the first round 
of the tournament, any participant who haa not mat the inaurance requirement will be dropped 
from competition. Following are the NEW procedures for raquetball court reservations: 
There will be a certain number of courts available with priority given to participants in ongoing tournaments. The following procedures will be followed: 1) Four (4) courto will be available for reservations on Tuesday, Thursday ond Sunday evening from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. 2) Reaervationa mu1t be made no later than 48 hours prior to match. I.e., ploy Thursday ­reservation must be made by the prior Tueaday at 4 p.m. Reaervationa for Tueaday and Sunday 
muat be made prior to Friday at 4 p.m. 3) Tournament reservations muat be made through the Non·Varolty office. Coli 8100. 4) 
Participant• may follow normal reservation procedures, i.e., regular reservations are made 
· 48 houro to 24 houro In advance by calling 8975. 
MEN'S RACQUETBALL 

Gorrloon (1864) vo. Yon (1883) Radenmllkar (3575) VI. Payno (8709) Haley (18113) VI. Eoprlg (3317) Mulllgon (3339) VI. Longo (1689) Mirando (8741) VI. Schmitz (18701 Tyler Brown (7970) vo. Tuame (1135) Glanon (116114) vo. Ruddick (8661) Lucero (1664) VI. Moeller (8857) Shank (871B) VI. Kout (8728) Winkler (1675) bye Daoeullwera (1851) va. Mcfeatoro (277· 
76691 Bali (1674) VI. McCarty (7098) Beuner (1802) VI. Marohall (1489) Miono (1626) VI. Talgioni (277·4086) Butler (1210) VI. Madlgon (10113) Hunt (8840) v1. Martinez (81148) Hineo (3317) v1. Srete (1883) Wolle (38301 v1. Herrle (1747) Pedace (3092) VI. Tallarida (1434) Stearnoy (7102) vo. Jackman (8927) Lachance (8207) vs. Burton (1783) McGouront (1787) vo. Jakopin (8220) Landy (8697) vo. Frazier (4826) Reger (8376) v1. Youbarg (232·0973) Maao (8894) vs. Commonis (1693) Yan Niopen (1383) va. Gr...,aon (3001) Guilfoyle (3663) VI. Richey (1629) Wa•imero (6708) v1. Fritz (1622) Hanigan (7721) vo. Derick (1629) 
Namorlc (1480) va. Martin (1883) Mesmer (8B94) vo. Yardy (357B) Eckl (4478) vo. Hatfield (1212) Stovall (1213) v1. Franken (1630) Tatum (3104) vo. Roda (1378) Park (1030) vs. Segall (1854) Nemeth (85011 vo. Monroe (1862) Gu1taloon (369B) vo. Pierce (1424) Hogan (1880) VI. Mayarro (1944) Schmidt (1602) VI. Dohophol1ki (3018) Jensen (6827) vo. Skelley (1142) McGowan (2267) vs. Williams (6766) Johnston (8837) vs. Dimaria (1692) Doyle (1472) vo. Kerr (1498) Cordova (1247) vo. Fullinar (3104) 
Callano (4663) vo. Freedman (232·0973) Bourjallz (1838) vo. Marko (8710) 
F. Brown (3284) vo. Phillips (1762) Klae (8419) va. T1uchiyama (1801) 
INTER HALL FOOTBALL RAN KINGS 
1. Cavanaugh 
2. 
St. Ed·a 

3. 
Off·Campuo 

4. 
Grace 


6. Stanford 
Note: These rankings have no bearing on post· season play or final standings. 
INTER HALL FOOTBALL STANDINGS  
NORTH  
w  L  T  
Grace  3  0  0  
Stonlord  3  0  
Zahm  1  2  0  
Keenan  0  2  
Flenner  0  2  
SOUTH  
Cavonough  3  0  
Dillon  
Morrissey  2  0  
Dillon  1  
Alumni  0  2  0  
Fisher  0  3  0  
CENTRAL  
St. Ed·o  3  0  0  
Off-Campus  3  0  0  
Holy Cross  2  0  
Carroll  2  0  
Sarin  0  3  0  


Hockey 
Yesterday's Games 

Chicago 2, DetroH 2, tie New York Islanders 6, Montreal 4 Philadelphia a, Calgary 0 St.Louis 5, New York Rangers 4 Los Angeles a, Colorado 4 
Basketball · 
Yesterday's Games 

Philadelphia 119, Cleveland 101 Atlanta 119, Kansas City 109 utah 104, Dallas 96 San Antonio 120, Portland 112 Milwaukee 106, Chicago 99 Los Angeles at San Diego, (n) Golden State at Seattle, (n) 
Football 
The Top Twenty teams In The Also-elated Press college football poll, with nrst-place votetln parentheses, season's records and total paints. Points based on 20-19·18-17-16-15-14·13-12-11-10·9-8-7­6-5......3-2-1: 
1. Alabama (57) 7-()..0 1,2a9 2. UClA (8) 6-0-0 1,222 3. Notre Dame 6-0.0 1,141 4. Georgia 7-0..0 1,105 5. Rorlda State 7-i·O 9a5 6. North Carolina 7-0..0 940 7. Sa. CaiHornla 5-0..1 859 a. Nebt'aska 6-1·0 a52 9. Ohio State 6-1·0 771 
10. Baylor 7-0-0 719 11. PHtsburgh 6-1-0 644 12. Texas 5-1-0 623 13. Penn State 6-1-0 539 14. South Carolina 6-1·0 493 15. Missouri 6-1-0 387 16. Oklahoma 4-2-0 310 17. Brigham Young 6-1-0 197 18. Mlc:hlgan 5-2-0 135 19. Sa. Methodist 5-2·0 131 20. Purdue 5-2-0 90 
Sports Briefs 
by The OhJm•er and The Auuciated Prm1 
The winner of th~ "Name That Penguin Contest" to name the Notre Dame hockey team mascot is Ann Fink, who submitted the name Pucky the Penguin. Fink's entry was selected at random from amongst the 30 entries submitted suggesting the name "Pucky." She will receive two hockey season tickets as prize. 
Ri2ht tO Life will sponsor a jog-a-thon on Sunday, 'l<rovember 2 at the Notre Dame Athletic and Convocation Center. Those interested in participating may sign up in LaFortune, the Tom Dooley Center, 256 Alumni, 110 Holy Corss (ND), 215 Breen Phillips, 458 LeMans, or 332 Holy Cross (SMC). The jog-a-thon will be held on the indoor track from 1:30 to 5 p.m. For further information call Tim (1157) or Bill (8127). 
Off-camous athletes are reminded that 
' the deadline for submitting rosters for interhall basketball and hockey is November4. Those interested in hockey should sign the roster in the Non-Varsity Athletic Office (C2) of the ACC, or call Mike Kennedy at 233-5939. Those interested in basket­ball should organize their rosters and then contactOff-Campus Sports Commissioner Tom Disser at 277-87 30 by November 3 so that fees can be settled and rosters fmalized All athletes are reminded that proof of insurance is required. -The Ohterver 
Steve Ulseth, co-captaih of the University of Minnesota hockey Gophers, was named Western Collegiate Hockey Association player-of-the-week yesterday for leading the team to a two-game sweep of defending champion North Dakota. Ulseth scored five goals and added four assists includ­ing the tying goals in both games, as the Gopbers defeated the Sioux last weekend, 9-8 and 4-3. -AP 

. ' 


Wednesday, October 29, 1980-page 12
S~rts 

leers fa114-3 to Falcons 

by Beth Huffman Sports Edttor 
The Notre Dame hockey team suffered an extreme case of the schizos last night as a flat Irish squad bowed to Bowling Green 4-3 on home ice. The Falcons now boast a 3-1 slate while the Irish crop to 1-2 on the season. 
Putting on one face, Notre Dame was able to control the puck and sporatically threaten to score. But, the Irish just seemed to fall apart and turn to a darker, less effective side. 
"I thought we played sluggish I in the first period," said coach Lt:fty Smith. "We didn't start to pick up until the third period." 
Bewildered himself as to the cause of the Irish let-down, Smith claimed his squad seemed ready during pre-game rituals. 
"It's nothing you can put your finger Qn," said Smith. "We seemed like we were ready to play in the locker room prior to the game and they were doing well in warm ups." 
Smith specified back checking and inconsistency as the major defensive criteria that the Irish must improve on in addition to the transition from offense to defense on the ice. 
"They (Bowling Green) are a good hockey team," said Smith, who is in his 13th season at the Irish helm. "Of course all the teams you face in Division I hockey are capable of beating you at any given time." 
Rex Bellomy, a 5-11, 175­pounder from Knoxville, Tenn was one of the few consistent players for the Irish versus a physical Bowling Green squad. A sophomore, Bellomy tallied the first Irish goal at 8:3 7 in the first period on a power play goal with an assist from classmate Kirt Bjork. Bellomy was also credited with an assist on the final Notre Dame goal asJeffLogan put the puck in at 13:5 3 in the final period. 
"I thought Rex Bellomy's line-that's Rex, Bill Rothstein 
For Sl million 
ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) ­Quarterback Vince Ferragamo, whose million-dollar arm has nearly twenty times the value of his contract with the Los Angeles Rams. savs he is considering in­suring h.is arm for about $1 million until he can negotiate a long-term deal. "If I can't work out something with the Rams I I don't want to gamble (on suf­fering a disabling injury)," said I Ferragamo, hero of the Rams' near-miss loss to Pittsburgh in pro football's Super Bowl last January. 
Now midway through the op­tion year ofa reported $52,000a-I vear contract, Ferragamo could become a National Football League free agent when this season is over. And he has added to his negotiating power by leading the National Football League quarterback ratings in 1980. 
Little used in his first 2 1/2 
years as a pro, his value soared as 
he led the Rams into and through 
the playoffs after becoming a 
starter at mid-season last year. 1 
For the past two weeks and Jeff Perry-played quite well," said Smith. "Dick Olson's line did pretty well, too." 

AlongwithBellomy,Bjorkhad his hand in two of the three Notre Dame scores. After assisting Bellomy on goal num­ber-one, the 5-9, 170-pound Bjork came to the aid of fresh­man Adam Parsons with a second assist at 17:20 in the second period. Parsons goal, which edged Notre Dame to within one of the Falcons, was his first as a Notre Dame player. 
"Bob McNamara played well in the goal," said Smith, who continued on to say the sopho­more goalie lacked much needed help from his defensemen. McNamara, a sophomore from Toronto, Canada was accredited with 25 saves. 
The Falcons, members of the Central Collegiate Hockey Asso­ciation, led the Irish for the ma­jority of the playing time. With goals by Brian Hills, John Samanski, Chris Guertin and George McPhee the Bowling Green dub was really one threatened in the last minute of the contest when Notre Dame pulled its goalie in a last ditch 
effort to score. 
Notre Dame will get a chance to revenge J:he loss on Tuesday, November 4, · when the Irish invade Falcon territory. 
But, before the Bowling Greeo rematch, Notre Dame must con­tend with Clarkson this week­end. The Golden Knights, who finished with a 21-12-1 record last year, will host Notre Dame Friday night at Syracuse and Saturday night at Rochester. 

Rex Bellomy scoredon apowerplaygoalfor the Irish against the Bowling Green Falcons mtdway through the first period.. 
Ferragamo wishes a~~ insured 
Ferragamo· has been the top­rated pa.;ser in the NFL, com­pleting 64.1 percent of his throws for 1,601 yards and 14 touchdowns. 
As a result, he's on the thresh­hold of a probable $1 million­plus, multi-year contract with the Rams or another team. But a serious injury in the meantime could leave Ferragamo with nothing. 1 
"The problem is that it's real 1 expensive for short term poli­cies," he said of his interest in insuring his strong right arm. 
"Lloyds of London is the only company I know that makes up policies like that for professional athletes," Ferragamo told the Los Angeles Herald Examiner. 
"The more I play without a contract, the hotter things get all the time," said Ferragamo. But he also has a warm feeling when he thinks about what he would have accepted from the Rams just a few months ago. 
"I'm lucky I didn't sign," he added. "Things worked out a lot better for me this way. What I 
r 

would have signed for then and , now is quite a contrast." 
Ferragamo recently took per­sonal charge of his negotiations with Rams' Generalonan.agamo with Ram's General Manager Ron Klosterman. Ferragamo won't say what he seeks, but he concedes little progress toward agreement has been made in his four meetings with Klosterman in recent weeks. 
A debate over who should play quarterback ended suddenly in the season opener. Pat Haden, No. 1 with the Rams since 1976 with a contract for about $200,000 a year, suffered a bro­ken index finger late in a loss to Detroit. 
Ferragamo's first start also was a loss, at Tampa Bay. Since then Ferragamo led the Rams to five straight victories before suc­cumbing to the blitzing tactics of the Atlanta Falcons in a 13-10 'Joss Sunday. 
Atlanta and Los Angeles are tied for first place in theWestern Division of the National Foot­ball Conference -where the Rams are seeking their eighth straight divisional title. 
Trish I 

.Ltemsj by Bill Marquard 
ROLLING STONE-Senior halfback Jim Stone is standing on the same threshold that teammate Phil Carter occupied three weeks ago. With 105 yardsatArizona,.Stonehaseclipsed the 100-yard plateau in three straight games, the same feat Carter managed in the first three games of this season. 
Both Stone and Carter have the chance to become the first rushers in Notre Dame's history to gain 100 yards in four straight games, but Stone's chance will probably come this weekend against Navy since Carter is still listed as questionable. 
Ironically, it had been 27 years since any Irish rusher had accomplished the rushing hat trick before both Stone and Carter did it in the same season. 
With a little help from Vagas Ferguson, an Irish halfback has gained 100 yards in eight straight games. The last time an Irish halfback was held under 100 yards was November 10, 1979, when Ferguson ground out only 89 yards in Notre Dame's 40­18 loss at Tennessee. 
MIDDlE MANIA-The Irish tangle with Navy for the 54th time this weekend when they invade Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, NJ. Notre Dame enjoys a 43-9-1 edge in the all­time series and has won 16 games in a row, including a 14-0 win here last season. 
Notre Dame's series with the Naval Academy is probably the most traveled of all Irish rivalries. Games have been played in Baltimore, Chicago, Cleveland, Philadelphia and South Bend, and Saturday's game will mark the first time that the Irish and Middies have clashed in the New York City area. 
The Irish have played in the facility at Meadowlands on one other occasion, pummeling Army 24-0 in 1977. 
THE RATING GAME-Both Notre Dame and Navy are ranked highly in NCAA stats this week. The Irish rushing offense is rated 12th with a 279.5 yards-per-game average while the Mid die rushing defense is 8th, allowing only 101.4 yards per contest. Notre Dame's defense against the run is 11.-th at 106.0 while Navy's offense on the ground is 22nd at 238.9. 
The Irish are 14th in total defense, giving up only 252.3 y.uds­per-game while Navy is tied for 6th at 224.0. Notre Dame's defense has allowed only two field goals in the last two games and has not surrendered a touchdown on the ground in the last 12 quarters. 
FLAGGED-Notre Dame has surrendered only 378 yards on the ground in the last four games. Ironically, they have been penalized more with 45 0 yards in infractions in those same four games. 
THESE BOOTS ARE MADE FOR.. -Harry Oliver's two field goals against Arizona pushed his season total to 13, equalling the school record which Chuck Male set last year. Oliver now has 53 points for the season, only 22 shy of Dave Reeve's team record for a placekicker. 
Oliver still ranks second nationally with a 2.17 field goals-per­game average behind Florida State's Bill Capece who leads with a 2.37 mark. Oliver is also rated lOth nationally with an 8.8 points-per-game mean. 
HEAD START-Notre Dame's 6-0 season record marks the best start for an Irish squad since the 197 3 National Champions went undefeated, capping the season with a 24-23 win over Alabama in the Sugar Bowl that still has Bear Bryant and company seeing crimson. 
Deja Vue? 

VIDEO VICTORY?-Recent events indicate that Notre 
Dame's much-awaited confrontation with Alabama will be 
televised nationally by ABC-TV. Although no official an­
nouncement will be made until the Sunday prior to the game, 
sources indicate that ABC is seriously considering making that 
game their national offering for the November 15 weekend. 
A TEAM IS A TEAM IS A TEAM-Dan Devine boasts a 
perfect 5-0 slate against Navy during his coaching career. He 
also notched his 50th win as Irish mentor on Saturday, upping 
his overall mark at Notre Dame to 50-14 (.781 winning 
percentage). Now in his 22nd year as a head coach, Devine 
sports a 170-54-8 ledger (.733). 
PLAYING THE NUMBERS-Jack Harbin, the mathemat­
ical sports analyst who designed a computer ratings system 
which the state of Ohio uses to determine the teams for the 
state high school football playoffs, is applying his methodology 
on the collegiate level. 
Harbin devised his own ratings system for college teams 
based solely on the strengths ofopponents. A team receives so 
many points for beating another team, and receives a number of 
secondary points depending on the number of wins the 
defeated team has over strong or weak opponents. 
Recent ratings showed that Notre Dame was fourth-ranked 
nationally behind Southern Cal, Iowa State and Pittsburgh. By 
comparison, Alabama, who has played a relatively wealf. ·· 
schedule, managed only a 27th place rating and perennial Big 
Ten contender Michigan was a poor 112th out of 139 teams. 
A WHOLE NEW BALLGAME-The November 3 issue of 
Sports Illustrated features a story by John Underwood entitled, 
"Land of the Rising Pigskin," an analysis of the Mirage Bowl 
contest in Japan last season between Notre Dame and Miami 
(continued on page 10) 






