
--------------~---------------------~----, 
NewsBrieb 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Iranian jets pounded t~r~e Iraqi c~ties 
Friday in apparent retaliation for Iraq's use ofm1ss1les and L1bya became the first Arab country to support non-Arab Iran in the war. Iranian jets hit Kirkuk, Mosul and Suleimanieh in northern Iraq and there were ·three air raid alerts in the Iraqi capital of Baghdad, but no planes were sighted. Iran claimed that Iraqi planes bombed Iran's Red Crescent headquarters in Abadan. Red Crescent is the Moslem equivalent of the Red Cross. With many diplomatic observers viewing the war as a political and military stalemate, Libyan leader Col. Moammar Khadafy declared support for Iran and said it was an "Islamic duty" for other Arab countries to do the same. There were reports that Libya had organized an airlift to supply Iran with_ arms and ammunition. Khadafy' s move was seen as part of h1s effort to foster revolution wherever he can, including helping Iran at the expense of other Arab states in the Mideast. Although Iran is Moslem, Iranians are Persians and not Arabs. Libya's official news agency ]ANA quoted Khadafy as adopting the Iranian thesis that the United States was behind Iraq's invasion oflran. "We have resolved to confront America in the Arab world," he was quoted as saying.-AP 
State Deoartment officials have been in telephone co~act in recent days with L. Bruce Laing en, one of the 52 American hostages in Iran. Department spokesman John Trattner said the latest contact occurred earlier this week but he refused further comment. Laing en, the 
U.S. deputy chief of mission in Iran, was in the Iranian Foreign Ministry last November when the American embassy was overrun by Iranian militants. Trattner declined to say yesterday whether Laingen is still at the Foreign Ministry or whether the department has been in regular contact with him.-AP 
An earthquake devastated the 
city of AI Asnam and its surrounding rural areas yesterday and the government reported "thousands of victims." The first tremor was far stronger than a quake that killed 1,65 7 people in the same city 26 years ago. The quake struck the city, 150 miles west ofAlgiers, at 8:30a.m. EDT and was followed by a second tremor two hours later lasting more than a minute. AI Asnam has 125,000 inhabitants. The government mobilized army, air force, police and civil defense units for an emergency rescue operation to help the injured and homeless and to search for bodies in ruined buildings. The government gave no precise number of killed and injured, but reported whole apartment buildings had collapsed. Old and prefabricated buildings on the outskirts of the city also shuddered and fell, causing more casualties, the officials said. -AP 
Two Americans and a Frenchman won the 1980 Nobel Prize in Medicine yesterday for discoveries that have led to a better understanding of the way the human body accepts organ transplants and combats cancer and other diseases. The Royal Caroline Institute of Medicine cited 76­year-old George D. Snell of Bar Harbor, Maine; 59-year-old Harvard professor Baruj Benacerraf and 63-year-old French blood specialist Jean Dausset, for their work on genetically determined structures on the cell surface which regulate immunological reactions. The three scientists, who worked independently but had close and friendly exchanges on their research, share the $212,000 prize money equally.-AP 
Almost seven of ev:ery ten students 
attending the University ofNotre Dame last year received some form offinancial assistance. More than $22 million was divided among some 6,000 students in scholarships, grants-in-aids, loans, jobs, fellowships and assistantships, according to the campus office offinancial aid. The report prepared byJosephA. Russo noted a 30 ~ercent increase in dollars administered over 1978-1979 and a 33 percent increase in number ofawards. Half of the $16 million awarded to 4,800 undergraduates was in the form ofa gift-scholarship or grant-while 40 percent was in loans and 10 percent in part-time work. The average award was $3,400 per student. The remaining $6 million was divided among 1,250 advanced students for an average award of approximately $5,000.-The Observer 
Iran, seeking to broaden its inter­national support in the Pers1an Gulfwar, has decided to take its case againstlraq to the U.N. Security Council, an Iranian special envoy disclosed yesterday. Ali Shams Ardakani said he would initiate Iran's complaint of aggression against Iraq, but expected to be reinforced by a delegation from Tehran. "Iran will definitely go to the Security Council," Atdakani told The Associated Press as he prepared to address the 35th session ofthe 
U.N. General Assembly. Jamal Shemirani; Iran's acting chief delegate to the United Nations, forecast Thursday that Iran would insist on restricting any Security Council debate to his country's conflict with Iraq and would refuse to discusl) the 52 American hostages held by militants in Iran since Nov. 4. Iran has ignored council appeals to free the hostages. -AP 
Windy and cold today and tonightwitha4o percent chance of showers. Highs in the low 50s. Lows in the upper 30s. Cloudy and chilly Sunday. Highs in the low 50s. ­AP 
Saturday, October 11 , 1980 -page 2 
Inside Saturday 


A bold proposal ... 
There's a problem at Notre Dame with social 
life. 

Yea, Yea, you've heard that so many times 
before you're sick of it. So am I-mostly because 
there's lots of complaining, but not much action. 
Well, here's an idea that's beenbrewing in my head 
for two years-and it might just turn out to be a 
workable solution to the nagging social problem. 
The most ironic thing about my idea is this: It's 
already in place, it's implementation would be_ 
cost-efficient, and the structure itself already has a 
long history of student use. 

I'm talking about the conversion of the Old 
Fieldhouse into a first-class student center. 
I admit it's a bold proposal, and at first it seemed 
improbable to me, too, but after taking a serious 
and critical look at the structure itself and the 
needs of the student body, I think the Old 
Fieldhouse might be just the answer. 
Looking out the third floor window here at The 
Observer office down at the _Fieldhouse, three 
things immediately come to mind-it's 
enormous size, its central location on campus, and 
its ricfi tradition. The first two· factors would be 
ingredie-nts of a good student center; the third 
would make for a great one. 
With the help of Notre Dame architecture 
major Deirdre Murphy, I've come up with some 
rough ideas about the possible uses ofthe building 
and a set of very tentative floor plan possibilities. 
Let me preface any discussion with a few points: 
First, the Fieldhouse appears, despite its outside 
condition, to still be structurally sound. Second, 
I'd like to stress that these plans aren't the wild 
dreams of a wide-eyed innocent-I have a good 
knowledge of architecture, and a critical eye for 
costs. Third, recycling ofold buildings is becoming 
more popular each day because ofthe skyrocketing 
costs of building new structures from the ground 
up. 
Now let's talk business. A look at the drawing to the right will reveal some of the uses I have in mind. Basically the Fieldhouse could accomodate all the activities now housed in the LaFortune Student Center-plus much more, including bowling alleys, a 350-500 seat movie theatre, a full­size nightclub/coffeehouse, and space for basketball, volleyball, or tennis courts. 
A pipe dream? No. To my way of thinking, this scheme could be brought off for a ballpark figure of $2.5 million-a pricetag no student center built from the ground up could ever hope to match. (By comparison, each of the new dorms will cost over $3 million when finished.) The key is to retain as much of the integrity of the Old Fieldhouse as possible. For example two sections ofthe old bleachers would be preserved-one for the movie theatre, and one for atmosphere adjacent to the . multi-purpose area. The nightclub/coffeehouse would be located in the labyrinthine passageways and rooms under the north bleachers, and retain the subt-erranean character for atmosphere. 
Approximately 3,000 square feet are available for a Huddle-style restaurant in the front of the structure, and above that, an equal space in the old boxing arena could house a large studylounge. 
Five or six bowling lanes could be placed in the area now occupied by the old south bleachers. A large gameroom would also be located there. 
Up to three floors of office space could be installed in the area between the rear of the proposed theatre and the site ofthe old basketball 
John McGrath 
Production Manager 


floor. These offices would feature balconies overlooking the east end of the Fieldhouse and would house student activites and publications. 
On the site of the old basketball court itself, all­purpose flooring would be installed to provide for a large ~rea big enough to accomodate basketball, volleyball or tennis courts interchangeably. 
What about LaFortune? Well, it too could be economically converted to serve a new purpose. Plans are being considered· for a new faculty office building on campus. Why not use LaFortune for that purpose? Like the Fieldhouse, it is convenient to the heart of the-campu.s, and a prime candidate for conversion. 
Well, there it is-finally a feasible, concrete response to the social dilemma. For a.n entirely reasonable cost, the University could provide one of the nation's best student centers, and at• the same time avoid the destruction of a historic campus landmark. The potential of the Old Fieldhouse to dramatically improve the social situation on campus is there. Let's not let it slip away with the wrecker's ball. 
OLD FIELDHOUSE N--$­
PROPOSAL FOR RENOVATION W 
" DEIRDRE MURPHY 



Design Editor ...................... .. 
Gen. John McGrath Technician ... ........... Bruce Oakley News Editor ............. Lynne Daley Copy Editor ............. Lynne Daley Sports 0out........... Paul Mullaney Sports Copy Editor ................... . 
Michael Ortman Systems Technician ...... Bob Huffstodt ND Day Edttor. ....... Bob Bernoskie Photographer ........,.. Rachael Blount 
The ,Observer (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($1 0 per semester) by writing The Obssrver, P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

.._..._....RANK ZAPPA----~ 


1-------.n concert 
bring Student I 
~~9.00/18.0 


The Observer Saturday, October 11 , 1980 -page 3 



SMC Alumnae Board revises group bylaws 
by Mary' J. Beckman and Margie Bram'/ 

The Saint Mary's Alumnae Board met this weekend and approved a revision of their by­laws. They also discussed the development of an Alumni Placement Service and the possilbities for raising funds for the college. 
The board consists of twelve members who meet twice a year and are elected by the Alumnae Association at large for three year terms. With the revision of the by-laws the board will be increased to 18 to allow for a larger representation as the number of alumnae grow. 
The purpose of the board is to coordinate alumnae throughout the country. "Each board mem­ber is a liaison to a club. We have sixty-some clubs throughout the U.S.," explained president ofthe board Maryjeanne Ryan Burke. 
"Alumnae are the largest support system of the college," she said. "They are trying to work on all levels to support the college, from sending students to the school, clubs sending scholar­ship money to the school, con­
tinuing  education  from  the  
college  to  the  alumnae,  for  
instance.".  

Lawyer discusses ABSCAM role 
by El'leeq Murphy 
William Geoghehan, former 

Chief  Counsel  to  the  House  
Ethics  Committee,  shared  his  
insights  into  the  legal  and  

political intricacies of con­gressional ethics with an attentive audience Friday at the Notre Dame Law School. 
Geoghehan cited several examples to illustrate situations where Congress has asserted its constitutional power to punish violation of ethics by its mem­bers, including the investigations concerning Adam Clayton Powell, Bob Sikes and Charles Diggs. The counselor pointed out, "Human imperfection in that body is nothing new;" sanctions for ethics violations can be found as early as the beginning of the 1800s. 
During the Abscam scandal, one ofthe major topics discussed in the lecture, Geoghehan served an important role in the case against Charles Diggs-who is now serving sentence in a federal penitentiary after resigning from his position in the House. 
He spoke about the expulsion ofOzzie Myers, another Abscam victim who is the first member of the House to be expelled since the time of the Civil War, and projected that since it is "quite possible that he will b~ re­elected", it is also possible that he will be re-expelled when he tries to claim his seat on November 12. 
With respect to the integrity of the 96th Congress, Geoghehan said that it was a "rather sad Congress with a large percentage of people with troubles," referring to problems with Abscam and alcoholism. 
And, citing the case ofSenator Joseph McCarthy as an example, Geoghehan attempted to under­line the grave nature of any expulsion proceeding and described it as "a very severe penalty for any member to undergo which more often than 
"The Alumane Board has no control over the workings of the college," said Burke, "but the president of the Alumnae Association is on the Board of Regents and since the Regents are the governing board of the college, we do have some input." 
The board will also take a more 
active role in recruitment for 
Saint Mary's. Theywill encourage 
their club members to attend 
college nights sponsored by their 
local high schools in order to 
represent Saint Mary's. 
The revisions made on the by­laws must still be approved by The Board of Regents this fall, but Mary Cucchi Depman, vice president of the board, seemed confident that they would gain approval. 
Members of the board include: 
President Maryeanne Ryan ('56) 
Vice-president Mary Cucchi 
Depman ('50), Paula Lawton 
Bevington ('58), Marybeth 
McGowan Crossin ('60), Carol 
Senda Damaso ('66), Donna 
Decrane Panzica ('76), Carol 
Wangberg Haines ('73), Betty 
Coston Ling ('39), Sister 
Florentine Pearson, C.S.C., ('28), Judith Ravernhorst Mahoney ('79), Alana Moynahan Rosshirt ('55), and Elizabeth Kiley Wilson ('54). 

not terminates his career and may endanger his health as well." 
Geoghehan is well at home in the political arena. In 1961, he worked with Attorney General Robert Kennedy and was also involved in civil rights legislation. 
Since resigning his post, he has been called back to public service on numerous occasions, most notably for congressional investigations. 
The White Center for Law and Public Policy sponsored the lunch-time lecture and will con­tinue its series next week with speaker Mark Sheilds, a graduate of Notre Dame and one of the foremost political strategists in the nation who also writes a daily column for The Washington Post. 
tltNe 'NOMEN NlME 
Ask the leprechaun! 
This young Irishfan knows the best way to get d ticket for today's game-he went right to the team's mascot. [photo by Rachael Blount} 



I COME TO OUR: I 
i COLLEGE i i NIGHT i ! OPEN HOUSE i 
• 

• :  Monday, October 1 3  • :  
:  3 p.m. to 9 p.m.  :  

SHAMPOO, CUT & BLOW DRY SPECIAL PRICE FOR STUDENTS 
$7 guys I S9 girls 
REFRESHMENTS, GIFTS & FREE HAIR CONSULTATION 

R9GIS HAIRSTYUSTS 
UNIVERSITY PARK MALL-272-1168 
,. 

The Observer 


Bandalumni weekend 
(continued from page 1) 

Baltimore, Md., who donated $4 million. 
The largest segment of the endowment portion of the Campaign, $32 million, has been designated for chaired professor­ships. Only 14 chairs are filled at present; the Campaign funds provide for 38 to 40 individual chairs in departments throughout the Universitv. 
Other parts ofthe endowment 
contributions will be used to 
upgrade the Memorial Library 
Saturday, .October 11 , 1980 -page 4 

All three presidential candidates line up in support of_Social Security system 
by the Associated Press 
Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan andJohnB. Anderson took turns Friday boasting who could do most to protect the monthly Social Security check relied on by millions ofelderly Americans. 
While the three candidates discussed the same issue on the sa'me day, apparently by coin­cidence, Carter also appeared to break his own promise to avoid personal attacks on Reagan. The GOP's candidate's election "would be a bad thing for our country," the president declared in Florida. 

On retirement benefits, Carter safd in a state with millions of retirees, "We have kept Social Security sound and it's going to stay sound as long as you have a 
...Campaign 

collections and for student has been used for the Fitzpatrick financial aid, campus ministry Hall of Engineering, the Stepan and a variety of other programs. Chemical Research Building, the 
The permanent endowment of Snite Art Gallery, the O'Hara­the University will stand at $250-Grace graduate residence and 300 million after the Campaign, the two new women's residence placing it 13th to 15th in the halls. In addition, all residence nation. halls, the Administration 
At pres~nt, Not_re Dame ranks Building and Washington Hall 18th natwnally m amount of are slated for extensive renova­permanent endowment. It is • tions. behind Ha~vard, Yale, Columbia, A new classroom-faculty office C:~rnell, Rice, Northwestern and building is also being planned, Pnnceton, to name a few. Frick said. It would most 
The physical facilities com-probably be located north ofthe ponent of the Campaign funds stadiumandsouthofthelibrary. 
Democrat in the White House." 
Reagan, working the same state, declared, "It is Mr. Carter who has endangered the eco­nomic securitv ofsenior citizens." 
And Anderson, in New York, said the Social Security retire­ment age should be raised gradually from 65 to 68 to safe­guard the stability of the system. He advocated changes to reduce the cost of .living adjustment applied to benefits to retirees. 
'...Reagan's election 
would be a bad thing 
for ourcountry...' 
Ifthe changes aren't made, he 
said, the Social Security system 
will face worsening financial 
pressure as the size of the work 
force decreases in relation to the 
number of retirees receiving 
benefits. 
The president gave a demon-. 
stration in the powers of 
incumbency, using his Florida 
campaign stop to sign legislation 
distributing $100 million to that 
state and others· for money it 
spent on Cuban refugees. 
Later, ina television interview, he said Reagan's opposition to the SALT II arms treaty with the 
Soviet Union and other positions "indicate to me that he would not be a good president ora good man to trust with the affairs of this nation in the future." 
Carter said that on at least four occasions in the past, Reagan has advocated making Social Security voluntary, a step that he said would "cripple and destroy" the system. 

But Reagan, who says he never advocated a voluntary federal pension system, criticized Carter for a 1979 advisory commission that advocated making Social Security benefits subject to taxation. "I would veto any attempt to tax Social Security benefits," he said. 
Carter administration officials disavowed that 1979 commission report, and its recommendations were never implemented. 
Reagan proposed elimination of the current $5,000 annual earnings limitation on those receiving Social Security benefits. He said the limitation "forces retirees to give up one dollar in benefits for every two dollars they earn above $5,000." 








------------------· 
• 
Guest rooms surrounding a spectacular glass domed indoor pool and recreation area. 

• 
Fine dining, entertainment and dancing in Arthur's Restaurant, Aldie's Show Lounge and the Irish Pub. 

• 
Special "Symposium" room with banked seating for audio-visual presentations. Conference suites and other facilities to 400. 

• 
2 night weekend package available by advance reservation. 

• 
Lavish executive and bridal suites. 


Midwa~ Motor Lodge 

Elkhart City Centre 300 S. Main St. Elkhart Indiana 46514 (219) 295-0280 
I  Indicate Style and Quantity  
I  IMAGE!!  
I  Your  quality lightweight  hand- 

1 
engraved sunglasses with high impact lenses. COLORED team emblem, and vinyl carrying case.I Support the FIGHTING IRISH. Clip this coupon and ORDER TODAY! Enclosed 1s my Check or MoneyI .
Order for$ 

__Men's , __Women's I 
C~IO •~ P.O. Box 412 I 
vtJ\.JIIVIYI'G Mt. Prospect.IL 60056 1 Name 
I 
Address 

City 1 
· I 

State Zip____ 
SEE US FOR PARTY NEEDS. 
'fhlr=, ·· ~LASSWARE
./ '.UNLIMII ED :)
. -I 

·1>_ FACTORY OUTLET STORE
JW 

20% off regularty priced I'Tl9I'Chc:J'lc. 
6502 Grape Road, In University Center Expires 12-31-80 Under the Mishawaka Water Tower 
~ 

277-7003
~ 


.....______.......;~;;.:.,;;,;:;...;..;.:Mon~:;,;·th;;.;;,;:ru;.,;;;;;.;:..;Su:;;;::,:n:..·1;.:2;;.;-6;;._.._...-~;;;;;.:;_, 
. · ,.· .', .. 
. .... ,... • t



·-----------------~ 
The-Observer~=--=-·-=====--=~=============== 


Toda~====================Sa=tur=da=y=, 
Octo=ber=l=l,=19=8=0-=pa=ge=5 

ANI> IN "THAT SE"ARCH THEY .5FEM TO FORGIET WHO 71/EY AR£. 7J.I£Y EN[> UP DES"TROYINq 7HEH5ELV£5 IN ORD£1\ -m R/5£ 

A NAHEL..G55 
SEEH5 LJKE EV£R.YCJN£ 

J{\t4i4Jl~t~ 
~­
.. 

Michael MoUnelll 
:r. VDW /0 L1 V£ MY 
LiFE BY HY OWN 5TANDARP5 BIJT NEVE.R FDRGE.TTJNfl 




Campus 
SATURDAY, OCT. 11 
• 7, 9, 11 p.m. -film, "all the president's men" carroll hall smc. 
• 
9 p.m.-nazz, Iori deitrich and ann bourjialy. 

•10:30 
p.m.-nazz, "next" 


SUNDAY, OCT. 12 
•1 
p.m. -concert, university of notre dame orchestra, washington haiL 

• 
2 p.m. -urban plunge 


rium. 
• 
2:30 p.m. -discussion, common cause, gilligan and hesburgh, cce. 

• 
7 p.m. -concert, notre dame orchestra, washington haiL 

•11:30 
p.m. -questions and answers, fr. joyce, alumni lounge following mass. 


Guitar concert Sunday 
William Ackerman, a nationally known acoustic guitar instrumentalist, will appear in concert Sunday at 8 p.m. in the new Snite Gallery Auditorium. 
Ackerman last appeared at Notre Dame in February, performing his innovative music in Washington Hall on a Midwest tour stop. He will return with guitarist Rick Walters, a Notre Dame graduate, who directs his own publishing company­Erebus Music Inc.' 

Peanuts 
AND THEN, 6UE55 WHAT, CHUCK ••THI5 KID CALLED ME ''GOLF BALL NOSE'' 


Olarles Shulz 

C) 1Q&O United Feature Syndicate, Inc 
SO I FIGURED I{OU KNOW WHAT IT'S LIKE BEING 
CALLE[;' NAMES ALL THE TIME BECAUSE l(OU'RE 50 INEPT AND EVER'iTHING.. 


workshop, library audito-1-----------------------------------------------. 

ACROSS 27 Thewhole 1 Gallivant shebang 4 Demented 28 Tender 7 Marsh spots 
11 Honshu 30 Partner peak of drabs 12 -ln(sub· 34 Score 
stitute) symbol 13 Reverse 36 Traveling 14 Qom's aid 
land 37 Long ago 15 Eyelashes 38 Greek 16 Verdi opus monster 17 See48A 40 Punish 19 Demanded 43 Grow 21 Runaway 44 Time 
spouses period 23 He expected 46 Unsure porridge 48 Criminal, 26 Born at times 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 




The Daily Crossword 
© 1980 by Chicago Trlbune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 

52 Juliet's 18 Tennis 
milieu shots 53 Obtains 20 Served un· 57 Premlnger answerably 58 Moved 22 Interweave 
gradually 23 Fugue 60 Containers composer 61 lnslgnlfl· 24 Supporter 
cant 25 Extorted 62 Raise money from 63 Issue 29 Scattering 64 Swlmwear Implement 65 Near grads 31 Corn grow­66 Hwy. Ing area 
32 Cereal DOWN part 1 Teacher 33 Canonical ~f.a k;nd hour 2 Open a 35 Sistine · cr,ack Chapel 3 Small boat works 4 Frying 39 Mars: comb. 
substance form 5 Circular 41 Inquired 6 Colored 42 Wharf 
like a 45 Doubleday fiber and others 7 Charlatan's 47 Plane 
work 48 SAC payload 8 Join 49 Western 9 Poisonous 50 Far out 
snake 51 Golf cup 10 Spurs 54 Musical 11 Little passage 
white lie 55 Satleor 12 Weaponry Estrada 15 Star's 56 Concords 
10111/80 walk-on 59 Fuel 

Town & Country I 
2340 N HICKORY ROAD MISHAWAKA 7h9 9090 

4 SHOWS DAILY 2-4:30-7-9:30 
Paramount Pictures Presents a Wildwood Enterpnses Production "Ordinary People" 

Music Adapted by Morvin HamIisch -Screenplay by AlviQ Sargent· Produced by Ronald L. Schwory Directed by Robert Redford A Paramount Picture IftI 
~fQ~~~g CopyriQhl •'i:J MCMLXXX by Pararrount PICiuresCorporahon : 1 ,\: ~ 
IR -· " .......ACtM,••,.. •
All R.qhi'J A6SefVed ~ •• ,llli!IIIUULIIUIINI 
'· , ... ~~.~-a.. 


The Observer Saturday, October 11, 1980 -page 6 
After 3llongyears, 


J(rausecaUsitqui~ 
(continuedfrom page 1) 
ing about a big drive for the 
Monogram men to get them 
more involved with the Univer­
sity. Speaking engagements will 
certainly be something that I'll 
consider." 
A native of Chicago's Back of 
theYards neighborhood, Krause 
played tackle on Notre Dame 
football teams of 1931, '32 and 
'3 3, and played in the first 
College All-Star football game. 
He was equally known for his 
accomplishments as center on 
the Irish basketball squad. It has 
been said that the three-second 
lane was conceived as a way to 
control him. He was inducted 
into the National Basketball Hall of Fame in April of 1976. 
Krause graduated cum laude with a degree in journalism in 1934. He then served in the capacities of basketball and football coaches at Saint Mary's College in Winona, Minn., and at Holy Cross. 
He returned toNotre Dame in 1942 and served as an assistanton Frank Leahy's football staff and on George Keogan's basketball staff. A year later, he assumed the head basketball job due to Keogan's death. He served in that capacity for six seasons. 
Krause was named assistant to athletic director Leahy in 1948, and was elevated to his cu"rrent position a year later. 

• 






Is he really goingto leave? 

I've known since June that Moose Krause· was planning to retire sometime before the end of this football season. It was no h\g secret. In fact, all you had to do was ask the right people and you could get a pretty straight answer. The only real questions were where, when, and how much will tickets for his testimonial be? 
But yesterday, when the whole thing became "official"-when Moose himself spoke the magic words-it was no less shocking than it would have been had the story been kept under heavy wraps. 
"I've made the decision to retire, effective January 1 ," he told a group of writers and photographers gathered in a conference room at the ACC. 
"I've been thinking about this for over three years," he admitted. "I returned to Notre Dame in 1942 and I've been athletic director since '49. It's been a long career and I just feel it's time for me to step down and let a younger fellow take my job." 
(We will now pause fora moment to let all of that sink in.) 
Retire? 
Step down?? 
Moose Krause??!! 
Hold on a second. Moose Krausecan't retire, or step down, or call it quits, or hang it up, or any such thing of the sort! l mean -he's part of the deal here, isn't he? You know... two lakes, the Golden Dome, football weekends and Moose Krause. 
If you think Aunt Jemima's pancakes are bad without her syrup, try a Notre Dame halftime presentation without Moose Krause! After all, that's what this guy was made for. 
Gi:ving trophies (and getting them). Pep rallies and golf outings and all those alumni dinners where you're bound to hear a couple of his favorite stories-stories you've undoubtedly heard before. Stories you can't wait to hear again. 
"Hey Moose! Tell the one about Timbuktu again! Please, Moose? just one more time?" 
And he'll wave his hand, shake his head, then tell the story one more time. Just like everyone knew he would. And everyone 

Frank 
LaGrotta 
laughs. One more time. Maybe bec~use it's funny ... 
Or maybe because it's Moose. 
Hey,let's face it, the guy's a legend. A real, 
live, honest-to-goodness, living, breathing, cigar-smoking legend. 
But don't tell him that. 
"Oh, I don't think so," he laughed when, after reciting his personal personal list of Notre Dame legends-Rockne, Leahy, Parseghian -he was asked if M-oose Krause just might not be the biggest legend of them all. 
"It's just that a lot of people identify me with Notre Dame," he suggested. "Maybe it's because I've been here too damn long?" 
Then again, maybe he's just being modest. 
Or maybe he's just being Moose ... 
"Who retired?" asked the disinterested voice atABC radio whenI called to tell him the news. "Notre Dame's athletic director? OK, thanks for-What.?! Moose is retiring?! All ofa sudden he was very interested. And he wanted all the details. 
"So, he's· gonna be athletic director emeritus, huh?" the guy asked me. "That means he'll be around a lot, right?" 
"Right," I assured him. 
"And he'll still go to football games and speak at banquets and stuff like that, right?" 
"I guess so." 
Then he paused. 
"But it'll still be different," he said finally. "Moose Krause is retiring ... somehow Notre Dame just won't be the same." 
And as I hung up, I realized that, in these next few months, none ofthe words written or speeches given in his honor, will say it any better than that. 
Moose Krause is retiring. 
Somehow Notre Dame just won't be the same. 


Editorial Board and Department Managers 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Editorials Editor.............. Mike Onufrak 
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. It does not necessarily 
Senior Copy Editor ............. Lynne Daley 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The ney.os is reponed 
Executive News Editor ........ TomJackman
as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a 
News Editor .................. Pam Degnan
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views of their authors .. Column S(>ace i~ 3:vailable to all members of the c~mmunity, and SMC Executive Editor . ........ Margie Br~ssil the free expresston of varymg optmons on campus, through letters, ts encouraged. SMC News Editor ............. Mary Leavitt 
Editor-in-Chief ............... Paul Mullaney Managing Editor ................. Mark Rust 
Sports Editor. ................ Beth Huffman Features Editor ............... Molly Woulfe Photo Editor................... .John Macor 
Business Manager . ............. Greg Hedges Controller ....................... .Jim Rudd Advertising Manager .............. Mark Ellis Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . Beth Hackett Production Manager .......... .John McGrath 
j 

The Observer Saturday, October 11 , 1980 -page 7 
(continr1edfrom page 8} 
moment. But it could have only been a fleeting thought because in the next inning they seized the lead for good. 
Tommy John retired the first two batters in the Royals' seventh but then Willie Wilson, who led the majors with 230 hits this season, rifled a double into the right field corner. Yankees Manager Dick Howser moved to the mound and motioned for Rich Gossage, whose 33 saves tied Quisenberry for the major league lead in games saved. 
Gossage had not appeared in the first two games of the series, and he came in last night with a fastball clocked at 96 mph. Still, 
U. L. Washington hung in against the big right-hander and nudged an infield single behind second base. Wilson advanced to third on the hit that brought up Brett. 
The Royals' slugger, who batted an amazing .390 this season and carried on a late-year flirtation with .400 that cap­tivated the country, had been retired seven straight times by Yankee pitchers Thursday and last night after homering in the first game of this playoff series. 
He wasted no time with Gossage, jumping on the first pitch, and sending it in a huge arc high and deep into the upper · stands in right field. The three­run shot propelled Kansas City in front and emptied the Royals dugout to greet Brett as he finished his home run trot. 
Kickers dump Purdue, 5-1 
The Notre Dame soccer team improved its season record to 11­3 last night with an impressive 5­1 victory over intrastate rival Purdue on Cartier Field. The win was a crucial one for Coach Rich Hunter's squad, as it keeps its hopes alive for the fourth and final NCAA playoff spot from the Great Lakes Region. Rob Snyder and Ed O'Malley scored two goals apiece and Mario Manta added another to pace the Irish. 
...Royals 



Catch the 
The Yankees didn't go down Stadium crowd of56,588 roared quietly, however. They mounted on every pitch as Quisenberry a major threat against faced Rick Cerone. The Yankee Quisenberry in the eighth. catcher drilled a 1-1 pitch that 
Bob Watson, who had three seemed to be a sure base hit. But hits in the game, opened with a Washington, the Royals' short­triple up the gap in left-center , stop, grabbed the liner and field. Then Jackson and Oscar . turned it into a rally-killing Gamble drew walks from the double play, trappingJacksonoff submarining right-hander. second base. 
Now, with the bases loaded Pinch-hitterJim Spmcer then and none out, the Yankee rolled out, ending the inning. 
• • . Hurricanes 

Fighting Irish 
. 
rn 


an independent student paJ:t>" ~erving notre d&me andst. mary's 
You don't have to attend Notre Dame to find out what is happening on campus. Just fill out the subscription form below, mail it along with remit­tance, and you can have The Observer mailed to your home. Published daily during· the school week, The Observer will inform you ofcampus and local news events, entertain you with daily editorials and features, and satisfy you with all ofthe up-to-date athletic news. 
Make check payable to: 
The Observer 
and mail to: 

P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 
46556 
Name 
Address 

City State Zip 
0 Enclosed is $1 7 for remainder of academic year Ml subscrlpdoas must be pre-paid 
{continuedfrom page 8) 
us to see Blair handle himselfout 
there. We won't decide who the 
starter will be until after we see 
what .happens in practice this 
week." 
The quarterback position is Miami's strong-suit . as well. Sophomore Jim Kelly owns the respect of Irish secondary coach JimJohnsonas one ofthe top two quarterbacks on the Notre Dame schedule this year. That's pretty select company, con­sidering number one is Purdue's Mark Herrmann. 

Devine pinpoints a matchup in the trenches as a key one this afternoon. It will pit Notre Dame center John Scully against Miami's nose guard Jim Burt. "John will find out just how good he really is when he goes against Burt," said Devine. "The winner of that battle should be an all­American." 

"]ohn Scully will find outjust howgoodhe really is when hegoes against Burt. " satd Devine. 
=========================== 
Diamondmen nip Valpo, 2-1 
Notre Dame's baseball team first game. The Irish had just 
nipped Valparaiso Univeristy, 2-three hits and committed two 1, in the first game of a double­errors. Valparaiso also had three header and was tied, 3-3, in hits and two errors. yesterday's second game before Notre Dame had banged out it was called for darkness on six hits in the second game Valparaiso's field. before darkness had set in. 
Sophomore Steve Whitmyer Valparaiso had five hits. Both was the winning pitcher in the teams had committed two errors. 





Classifieds 
NOTICES 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans $20-$200. One percent Interest. Due In 30 days. One day wall. Open M-F 11:30-12:30. Final oppllcallon day before break Is Ocl.16. 
THE NEW BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN ALBUM "THE RIVER" IS SCHEDULED TO BE ReLEASED AND AVAilABLE THIS MONDAY, OCT. 13. AT RIVER CITY III:COIIDS. THE BOSS RELEASES THE RIVER. SO GET IT AT RIVER CITY ReCORDS THIS MONDAYI $1.00 OFF ALL SPRINGSTEEN ALBUMS INCLUDING IMPORTS, WITH N.D. OR SMC 1.0., NOW THROUGH OCTOBER 151 
HELP! I need a RIDE to and especially bock from the Woshlngton, D.C or Baltimore areo. I will ol course, share driving and expenses. Call Mary Powel at 788A 
HELP -need ride to Detroit oreo. Call Sharla -3891 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: Block Lab-Doberman puppy. Black coat with while spot on chetl, female. Call John, 234· 339A. 
FOUND: Calculotor In Library an Oct. 8. Must Identify to claim. Call Bart at 272-9978. 
FOUND: Calculator In Hayes Healy on Wed., Oct. 8. Call and Identify. Ruben 3254. 


FOR RENT 
Three-bedroom house. Near campus. 295 plus ulllllles. 234-4620. 
FOR RENT: Ugly Duckling Rent-A-Car. Priced from $7.95 a day and seven cents a mile. Phone 255-2323 tor reservations. 
Furnished Apt., 5031/2 W. Jefferson, Duplex, 3 rooms. 2nd floor, gas heollurnlshed, 289-6307, 234-0596. 

WANTED 
1 need many student Miami tickets. Will pay reasonable requests. Call 7443. 
Helpl My Mommy misses me. Need ride to Fl. Lauderdale area, October break. Colleen, 41-4505 
Need ride to DC tor break. Pete: 1184 
Needed: Ride to Boston lorOctober break. Will share expenses. Please call Gerry 6749. 
I "'""/two Army student ttl'kets. Please call Mark at 7471. 
Will sell own SISTER tor ride to either NY or BOSTON area tor October breakU Call John-1817 
NEED RIDE FROM CLEVELAND AREA TO NOTRE DAME AFTER OCTOBER BREAK. SHARE EXPENSES. CALL PAT 
8606. 
Gel your ASH out In Oregon. 2 rlde11 wanled. 180/186 WEST & 15.NORTH. Call Charlie 1247 or Greg 1153. Round trip only. 
NEED RIDE TO OKLAHOMA CITY.OCT. 15 OR 16. CALL CAROL 5489 SMC AFTER 4 PM 

FOR SALE 
FOR SALE • COLOR PICTURES OF THE SAINT EDWARD'S FIRE. TO MAKE ARRANGEMENTS TO SEE THESE HISTORICAL PICTURES CALL MARK THESING. PHONE -7735. 

TICKETS 
NEED 2 ARIZONA TICKETS. 4006­SMC 
WILLING TO PAY $100 FOR 2 MIAMI 
G.A. TICKETS, PLEASE CALL JAY ­4586 
Need six G.A. llx. for Army together. Call Mike 8760. 
2 "YES" tickets -3rd row padded­2/$15.00 debbie #2184 
Need 8 G.A. ARMY Tlx • Please call Mary Pat ol 8091 
DRUGS CAN BE PURCHASED WITH THE MEGABUCKS I WILL PAY FOR ARMY GA TIX CALL PAT 8606 
Flllhy Rich student needs 1 student or G.A ticket to Army. Call Tim· 8628 
NEED 3 G.A TICKETS FOR ARMY ~AME CALL RAY 272-9978 


PERSONALS 

Someone you care about • a friend, a family member • have a drinking problem? Join us. AI Like, ext. 8809. 
BE A BELIEVER IN MIDWEST ROCK 'N' ROLL... LISTEN TO THE MICHAEL STANLEY BAND In concert Thurs Oct 30 at 8 pm In SMC O'laughlln Aud. Reserved sealing ticket sales at SMC Ticket Office & ND/SMC Dining Halls. Price: $6 NOW, Increased to 
$7 AFTER BREAK. 
FIELD HOCKEYtl "You BeH" Go Irish, Beat SMCIII 
Two people need a ride to Chicago O'Hare airport lor October break. We will spill the cost of gas. Call Cheryl at 4629 
To my protege, 

May the Quadrllek always be with you; Moy your copy never be tole. May you be surrounded by cute 
aslstants; May you always make your deadline. And may your von never run out of gas. • 
Break a leg Sunday nllel Morgarel 
Lite Is rough when your von runs out of gaslll 
Mark S: II will be a pleasure to "usher" you back Into life at N.b.... lheQ. 
Monsle Monsle, 

Hey mon, we be wishing you a happy blrthdayt Weeho, the quint's legal (and you thought we wanted you lor your roomplck)l Senior Bar here we come and K.C. look oull 
Love, 

Belle, Hoel, Kaybers, Blmo, and 
Weebs Mom, Dad, Sleph ond Fr. Quinn 

Welcome to NQ and a turf-tilled weekend! Although I had to give up Bruce far you, ll's still nice to have you here. Have fun. 
Love, Pom 
KATHY G. Welcome back to Qulpple lerrlloryt St. Joe's will be very quiet this weekend. Go PHILLIE51 
CHARLOTTE MAKES THE BEST MILKSHAKES IN THE HUDDLEtll 
Welcome bock, Glockensplelersl Ever since I found II, the N.D. band, you and your Instruments have been my favorite. Old you know that every N.D. president since me hos wished he could play lhe Glock. Old you know that most of our students do not even know what a Glock Is? 
Father Sorln 
THE SAGA OF THE MOOSE CHILD 
Ryon Verberkmoes Is hall moose ­born of human parents, but kid· napped before puberty by a cull. then lost In the woods of northern Calllomlo and befriended by a moose herd....(To be Continued) 
Who sold Panama Red was dead? Tune In to AM 64 on Frldavt from 7-9 lor details... 
•• 0 ••••
I. I.''. 
t. I 
....__,__ 
·-----------------------'---'-'----'--'---­

f 
~­
Saturday, October 11 , 1980 -page 8
~ports 

Irish hurting 
Hurricanes bite into Oreo 
The stingy Hurricane defense Freshman Tim Marshall will
by Michael Ortman 

has allowed just 15.7 yards per definitely start in his place. 
Associate Sports Editor 

game on the ground in four Starting cornerback Dave games, and ranks third nationally Duerson still is not at full
When the average Notre 
in total defense (176.7 y.p.g.). strength following a sprained
Dame football fan looked at the 
"Our biggest single task (today) ankle suffered in the Michigan
1980 Irish schedule six weeks 
will be to nullify all the momen­minicle three weeks ago. Fresh­
ago, the initial reaction was, 
tum Miami has built up the first man Stacey Toran started in his 
"Hey, this looks like an. Oreo 
month of the season," said place last week and Devine said 
cookie-two top-ten teams at 
Devine. "Their defense has been yesterday that he will again this
the beginning and the end of the 
just tremendous so far, and afternoon. That brings the total
schedule and seven nobodies 
they're off to a great start (4-0). of starting freshmen to three,
sandwiched in between." 
"There's no ques._~ion they'll be with Marshall, Toran and punter
Yet now it seems the com­
fired up this week, because they Blair Kiel ... which raises another
pletion of the schedule has 
know a victory over Notre Dame intriguing question. Might Kiel
changed somewhat as the 13th 
is all they need to gain a little get the starting nod at quarter­
ranked Miami Hurricanes blow 
more national attention. We've back?
into South Bend this afternoon 
got to do everything we can to "There might be some more
posing a serious threat to Notre 
prevent that from happening." freshmen starting tomorrow,"
Dame's unblemished 3-0 record. 
That will be no small order for Devine hinted yesterday, "but I
Irish Coach Dan Devine can't 
the Irish, who will have six can't tell you at what position." 
understand why Miami ofFlorida 
injured starters watching 'from The 6-1, 200-pound rookie
isn't rated higher. "I can't under­
the sidelines. Atop that list will from Columbus, Ind., entered
stand it," Devine told the 
be sophomore Phil Carter, the the game last Saturday late in the
Chicago Football Writers on 
all-everything tailback after last first half with the Irish trailing 9­
Tuesday. "They beat a good 
week's brutal 254-yard, 40-carry 3. Kiel and Carter got the offense
Florida State team, and Florida 
performance at Michigan State. moving as the Irish pulled out the
Stat~ beats Nebraska, but Miami 
Carter sustained a severely 26-21 decision. Two weeks
is still ranked behind both of 
bruised thigh in the fourth earlier, Kiel came into thethem." 
quarter of the victory over the Michigan game late to engineer
This afternoon's battle 
Spartans. the final scoring drive, capped off
promises to be one of the best of 
Senior Jim Stone should start with Harry 0 liver's 5 1-yard field 
the five games scheduled for 
in his place, and junior Ty Barber goal as time expired.
today around the country 
will see action as the backup. Senior signal caller Mike
between two top-twenty teams. 
Junior tailback Bernie Adell Courey, Kiel
The seventh-ranked Irish, whose the man has 
suffered a knee injury last replaced on both occassions,
injury-depleted roster already 
Saturday and is questionable for agreed with Devine's move in the
looks like a hurricane blew 
this afternoon. 

Michigan contest. "I'd have done
through, will have to move the 
Tight end Dean Masztak, who the same thing if I were coach­
ball against the nation's best 
suffered a serious ankle sprain ing," Courey said after that
defense against the rush. 
last week, wll be replaced by game. "We needed a stonger armsenior Nick Vehr. Sophomore than mine in that particularTom Thayer will definitely start situation." 
in place of senior Tim Huffman So one must speculate thatat guard. Huffman could see Kiel would get the nod today,some action but is still nursing since the Hurricanes are so toughthe injured foot which has kept
Brett sparks KC into series 
to run against. The Irish musthim out of action since August 
establish a solid passing game, NEW YORK (AP)-George beginning Tuesday night. A feat that has not been 16. especially with their top ground
The injury list is long on the 
Brett wrote another chapter in Brett had been a member of accomplished in league Cham­gainer, Carter, out ofthe lineup.
Irish defensive unit as well. 
his fairy tale season last night, the Royal teams that lost to New pionship Series history. "Mike Courey had done a good
Strong safety Steve Cichy has
hammering a monstrous three­York in 1976, 1977 and 1978. But Brett and the Royals put a job, but we just felt we needed to
been ruled out for the remainder 
run homer that carried the Twice those playoffs went down stop to that. make the switch," said Devine.
of the 1980 campaign because of 
Kansas City Royals into their to the ninth inning of the fifth New York stirred for the first "Our players and coaches have 
a chipped vertebra in his upper in all our
first World Series with a 4-2 game before the Yankees won time when it erased an early 1-0 confidence quarter­
back. Defensive tackle DonKidd 
victory that completed a three­and left Kansas City with the Kansas City lead with two runs in backs, so it wasn't any surprise to
practiced only sparingly this 
game playoff sweep over the bitter defeats. the sixth in a rally triggered by a week because of a knee injury. (continued on page 7) 
New York Yankees. This time, the Royals got the Reggie Jackson double. The Royals ended a string of jump on New York by sweeping Most of the damage came three playoff frustrations against the first two games at home to against Kansas City bullpen ace 
the Yankees and became only leave the Yankees pn the edge of Dan Quisenberry, who had 
the second expansion team to elimination as they returned relieved starter Paul Splittorff qualify for a shot at baseball's home. Owner George after Jackson's two-base hit. world championship. They will Steinbrenner angrily pledged If the Royals were thinking 
meet the winner of the Houston­that his team would reverse the about Steinbrenner's pledge, Philadelphia National League trend and win three straight at that would have been the playoff in the World Series, home. (continued on page 7) 
Morgan, Astros nip Phillies 
who trotted home on Walling's leader Mike Schmidt bounced a
HOUSTON (AP)-Houston 

fly ball to left fielder Greg hopper to Enos .Cabell at thirdsecond basemanJoe Morgan, the Luzinski. base and Cabell's throw caughtinspirational leader throughout The run completed the second Rose at the plate. Luzinski thenthe season, tripled off the right straight extra-inning playoff flied out to deep left field, ending field wall in the 11th· inning and game and set a National League the threat.
Denny Wailing delivered a sacrifice fly, giving the Astros a 1-record for the most scoreless Niekro, 20-12 during the 
innings in playoff competition. regular season, allowed six hits
0 victory over the -Philadelphia Following Morgan's triple, during his 10 innings ofwork but
Phillies yesterday afternoon in the third game of the National Philadelphia Manager Dallas suffered from the futile run 
League playoffs. Green elected to intentionally production that has plagued the walk Jose Cruz and pinch hitter Astros all season. He was
The dramatic triumph gave 

Art Howe in order to face the replaced in the 11th by DaveHouston a 2-1 lead in the best-of­left-handed hitting Wall in g. Smith.
five series and put them within 
Joe Niekro, the hero of Smith, one of Houston's topone game of being in the first Houston's division-clinching relief aces all season, respondedWorld Series in the team's 19­playoff victory over Los Angeles to the challenge in the 11thyear history. 
on Monday, kept the Phils at bay inning when he struck .out 
Morgan, given credit for keep­through most of· the game, Luzinski to open the inning. ing the Astros together this except for the third inning when Then, after Manny Trillo flied season, led off the 11 th inning the Phillies put runners on out, Maddox doubled and Larry with a triple off loser Tug second and third with one out. Bowa was walked intentionally. McGraw. Morgan, hobbled by a With Pete Rose at third base Smith, the winning pitcher, knee injury, then gave way to and Bake McBride at second, ended the inning by fanning pinch runner Rafael Landestoy, major league runs batted in pinch hitter Del Unser. 







