---~ 
... Hitchcock -Page 5 

VOL. XIV, NO. 130 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30,_ 1980 
Much discontent 
Speech & Drama woes continue 

Editor's Note: This zs· the conclusion of a two-part series examining the development of the Speech and Drama Department into the Communication and Theatre department. Today 's article details some of the tensions of students, faculty and administrators that have been created by changes in the department. The stories have been researched and wn"tten by Staff Reporters Mike Shields and Sal Granata ana Saint Mary's Executive Editor Margie Brasszl. 
''In my four years,'' Speech and Drama major Mark Harris remarked, "this is our smallest graduating class. Enrollment is going down due to the fact that there is so much intrigue and backstabbing. It is not enjoyable to be part of the department. To newcomers it looks like a screwed up situation.'' 
The enrollment in the theatre concentration has plummeted. This year there are about 20 majors in the department; after graduation there will be about five·. 
Despite outwardly calm appearances, the Speech and Drama department's transition to Communications and Theatre has been marked by intra-departmental discontent and confusion involving students, faculty and chairman Mitchell Lifton. 
Students complain about several unpopular faculty firings, communications barriers be­tween students and their chairman, and uncer­tainty over the future of theater at the schools. 
Faculty grievances include contract termina­tions, the manner in which the department is directed, and a lack of consultation concerning departmental decisions. 
Theatre majors in particular have voiced concern about the future of their discipline. and after a question and answer session with Lifton in Washington Hall two weeks ago, some students still expressed their dissatisfaction . 
"It's very strange to me because when I came here four years ago, the department was flourishing," Dorothy Hanrahan said. "Right now we are watching our department fall apart. Lifton told us he was brought here by someone outside the department to get a balance between communications and theater. He told us he thought the theater could sustain itself for a couple of years. He made some sense but we still question what is happening to theater.'' 

A recurring faculty complaint centers on 
j· ;,.;: 

rationale behind the number of firings a :d contracts that were not renewed over the past two years. Four out of six non-tenured faculty have received terminal notices, and some contend that those notices were "politKally motivated.'' 
Lifton said he understands this disgruntled attitude. "I would react in the same way," he said. "Those people are bitter, defensive and critical of the direction of the department.'' He called it a natural reaction of people who have had their contracts terminated. . 
In a seperate interview, Arts and Letters Dean Isabel Charles agreed with Lifton's view, asking, ''Do you know anyone who is happy to have their contract terminated?'' 
One tenured faculty member said that "hard decisions have to be made sometimes," and "I don't know if there was anything irregular about them (the decisions to let faculty go)." 
Several Jrofessors say they find it hard to understan Lifton's perspective on many de­partmental issues. "One basic ciifference is that he doesn't think we had a theater program before he came,'' said a tenured faculty member. But the same professor said Lifton is acquiring a sense of what works at Notre Dame. 
From those professors and students who will not be here next year come only predictions of disaster for the Theatre Department. 
''I'm in tears, tears from what I see happening next year," one leaving faculty member said, citing ''the diminishing of the Theatre program, 40 to 60 percent shrinkage in activity and the film thing i!l a teete.r totter state. '' 
[continued on page 7J 

by The Associated Press 

WASHINGTON (AP) ­Two carrier-based u.S. fight­er jets intercepted an Iranian patrol plane over the vital Gulf of Oman and ''escorted'' it back to Iranian air space yesterday, the Pentagon said. Iran claimed the American jets "started to shoot" at the plane; the Pentagon said no weap?ns were fired. The aerial encounter was the first military confrontation be­tween the United States and Iran since militants occupied the U.S. Embassy in Tehran and took 53 Americans hostage November 4. 
U.S jets confront Iranian patrol plane 
Meanwhile, a Swissrepesen­tative in Tehran was quoted as saying the bodies of eight Americans killed in last Fri­day's aborted hostage rescue effort will be flown to Zunch this week. And Iranian Presi­dent Abolhassan Bani-Sadr called for a special meeting of non-aligned countries to deal with the U.S.action in launch­ing such a mission, the official Iranian news agency said. 
President Carter said he believes he ''made the right choice" in ordering the hos­tage rescue attempt. Durins a visit to Kuwait, the Iraman foreign minister, Sadegh Ghotbzadeh, escaped injury when gunmen in tow cars fired 
The Swiss news agency quoted a spokesman for the Swiss .!:':mbassy in Tehran, which handles American affairs 
since Washington broke diplo­matic relations with Iran, as saying the bodies of the eight commandos will be flown to 
. Zurich later this week. 
The news agency reported the Swiss ambassador to Iran, Eric Lang, discussed the trans­fer with Greek Catholic Arch­bishop Ailarion Capudji. The Vatican has said Capudji, who spent three years in an Israeli jail for smuggling guns to the Palestinians, does not repre­sent it in Iran. When he arrived in Tehran yesterday, Capudji said he would accom­


Carter nominates Muskie 
WASHINGTON (AP)­ly broadcast news conference named, called the president's decision "politically astute"
President Carter yesterday said last night. he will nominate Sen. Edmund Muskie, considered a liberal, and "a wise choice.'' Vance resigned on Monday,
S. Muskie of Maine to succeed is chairman of the Senate 
Budget Committee, a member citing his disagreement with
·cyrus R. Vance as secretary of state, congressional sources of the Senate Foreign Relations Carter's decision to send a said. Committee and was the Demo­military rescue team into Iran 
Carter notified top consres­cratic vice presidential candi­in an ill-fated effort to free the American hostages held in
sional leaders of hts dectsion date in"1968. 
Senate sources said the Tehran since last November.
yesterday afternoon. Congress was to be officially told of the choice of Muskie, highly re­Muskie, 66, first came to decision at a White House spected on Capitol Hill, virtual­national prominence when Sen. meeting at 4 p.m. ly assured that the nomination Hubert H. Humphrey chose 
him as the vice presidential
The president formally an­would be confirmed. nounced his decision to the An influential Senate aide, [continued on page 6]American people at a national-who asked that he not be 
at his motorcade.  Iran blamed  
the  incident  on  neighboring  
Iraq.  

Iran's revolutionary ruler, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, claimed ''American pseudo-left groups" and agents of the deposed Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi, carried out a wave of bombings in T<'hran of Monday, according to Tehran radio. The Iranian news agen­cy Pars said four Germans who arrived in Iran on April 15 claiming to be correspondants for the magazine Stern were being held in connection with the bombings. A bombing was reported yesterday near Ahvaz, 350 miles southwest ofTehran. 
pany the bodies to another country and turn them over to the Red Cross. Tehran radio reported Capudji left Tehran to visit the scene where the Americans died last Friday. 
The Iranian news agency quoted Bani-Sadr yesterday as saying he had asked Cuban President Fidel Castro, current head of the non-aligned nations to convene a special meeting to deal with the American hos­tage rescue attempt. P::vt said the Iranian presic~~-~,~ also asked that the non-aligned countries· set up a commission to investigate ''American crimes' ' during the rule of the deposed Shah. 


I Cronkite denies seeking VP 
Cult flees to fallout shelters 
position with Rep.. Anderson 
WASHINGTON (AP) -CBS anchorman Walter Cronkite flarly denied yesterday that he would consider running for vice president on a ticker with presidential hopeful John Anderson. C.ronkite, named in polls as one of the most popular and. h1ghly trusted men in America, was quoted in the May 3 1ssue of New Republic magazine as saying he would be honorc;d to join Andc;rson in the 1980 presidential race. f;I,owever, m a state'!lent Issued throu~~ CBS, Cronkite -;;ud: T~e ~.e~ Republic. reporte~ has ~Ismterp~etc;d our conve~sa~~on. I hav~ no mteresr m entenng politics m any 
•apacJty, the Cronkite statement said. "I have never c·ndorsed a political candidate and I have no intention of ··ndors1ng a political candidate in the upcoming campaign, 111cluding Mr. Anderson." 
Student uncovers 'divine ' 

writings ofMormon founder 
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) · "Reformed Egyptian" characters Mormon church founder Joseph Smith Jr. says he copied directly from golden tablets given to him by an angel in preparing the church scripture, have been found in an old family Bible, the Church ofJesus Christ of Latter-day Saints says. The single page containing about two dozen characters arranged in vertical columns was found this month by a Utah State University student and is believed to be the earliest sample of Smith's handwriting, the church said Monday. The Book of Mormon, accepted as scripture by the church, unfolds a religious history of the Americas, including a visit 
to ancestors of the American Indians by Jesus following his resurrection.  Christ  
Weather  
Cloudy and cool.  High in the upper 50s and low 60s.  Partial  

clearing at night and cool. Low in the mid and upper 40s. lncreasmg cloudinessromorrowand a little warmer. High in the mid and upper 60s. 




Cam~_u_s_ _.. 
1:15 pm LECTURE, "care of older adults," dr. mary martucci, 351 MADELEVA SMC 
3:25 pm SEMINAR, "multiplicity criteria for gas-liquid stirred rank & bubble column reactors," daniel huang, 356 FITZPATRICK 
3:30pm SEMINAR, "instabilities of a spinning-down flow," prof. stephan davis, northwestern u., 356 FITZPATRICK 
4:30pm LECTURE, "the role of enteric microorganisms in mutagenic activation of drugs," dr. ernest bueding, GALVIN AUD. 
6:30pm MEETING, sailing club, 204 O'SHAG 
7 pm PRESENTATION, "career opportunities for arts & letters students," robert waddick, assistant dean of arts and lem·rs and paul reynolds, placement specialist of the university's placement bureau sponsored by the arts and letters husine"s society, 118 O'SHAG 
7 pm FILM. "are you listening?" BULLA SHED 
7, 9, II pm FILM, "deliverance," ENGR. AUD. 
7:30 pm LECTURE, "the commonwealth writer & the emerging literature of rhe south pacific,'' albert wendt, samoan novelist, 331 O'SHAG 
8 pm LECTURE, "the rev..Jlurionary church," gerard noel, GALVIN AUD. · 
8:15pm RECITAL, lisa mahoney, flute, LIB. AUD. 
8:30 pm kevin paulsen, mark stager, and anthony walton, NAZZ 
10 pm "the rubber band" NAZZ 
,,·. 
HELENA,MONT. (AP)­Ciaiming nuclear war would erupt within hours yesterday the leader of a religious sect said members of his faith had taken refuge in fallout shelters inseveral Western states. 
However, police in most cities he named as refuge areas said they had no reports of people heading for shelters, 
SMCseniors 

announce vote tallies 
By Patty Sheehan 
The Senior class and the LeMans Hall run-off elections were held Monday resulting in the election ot Teri Hill's ticket as officers of the Senior class and Meg Breslin's ticket as officers of LeMans Hall, according to Margie Quinn; Saint Mary's College Electjon Commissioner. 
The Hiii/Stoii/Boyle/O'Bri-' en ticket collected 63 percent of the vote against the BeckmanI Kraus/Welsch/Murray ticket; who had 30 percent of the vote. Only 7 percent of the Senior class abstained. 
Fifty-three percent of the LeMans Hall residents cast their votes for the Breslin/Ec­kelkamp ticket while the Me Gargle/Engler ticket received 44 percent of the votes. Three percent of the LeMans Hall residents abstained from the election. 
In addition, Keara Smyth was appointed as acting presi­dent of Regina Hall until an election can be held next year. 

r-The_Ohs.erY-er_ 
Night Editor: Danny "I Could Just Kiss Ya" Tarullo Asst. Night Editors: Mike "It's Over" Jans, Mary "Much Missed" Leavitt Copy Editor: Mary Fran Callahan Layout Staff Patty ''Skip Out'' Sheehan News Editor: Pam "UMOC" Degnan 
Sports Layout: Michael "Draft Me" Ortman Sports Copl Editor: Beth "Looks ltaltan" Huffman Typists: Kim, Katie 
· "Kaybers" Bigane, Kathy "Home Much?" Festin, Kathy Murray EMT: Kim "Lifesaver" Convey Proofreader: John "Better Be There Sat.'' Chaussee ND Day Editor: Keith Melaragno SMC Day Editor: Sue Fuegner AdDesign: Paul "Misspell­ing'' Hurley Photographer: Beth "Washington Hall" Prezio 
The Observer (USPS 598 9?0\ Is published Monday through .·r.day except during exam and vacation periods. The Obnrver Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College_ Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) by writing Thl 0bserver. P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction·rights are reserved. 
private or public. 
Leland Jensen, 65, a chiro­practor and "naturopathic phy­sician" in Missoula, predicted that either a nuclear war would start or "an incident that will cause it to happen" would occur at 7:55 p.m. EDT Tues­day. 
Jensen said he believes all cities with populations of 100,000 or more and major military bases are targetyed for nuclear attack from the Soviet Union. 
-He said he based his predic­tion on biblical-prophecy and measurements of the Pyramid of Khufu in Giza, Egypt. 
He said about 200 members of his faith awaited the event in shelters in their homes in Missoula. He said members also had taken shelter in the Montana citites of Billings, Bozeman, Butte and Kalispell, Thompson Falls and Arlee, and in Durango, Colo., and Sheri­dan and Cody, Wyo. 
Anita Stratman, a follower in Arlee, said she and three other people were taking refuge in a basement fallout shelter stocked "with water, dry food, a couple of loaves of bread and some peanut butter.'' 
Ed Day, a leader in Sheri­dan, Wyo., said 20 people were sheltered there, and Civil Defense officials in Cody, Wyo. reported six persons had taken refuge in a tunnel. 

Day, asked what would hap­pen if there were no nuclear blast, replied, ''What will hap­pen to you if there is? We want to save everybody in the coun­
try., Jensen, who described him­self as U.S. leader of the "Baha'is Under the Provisions of the Covenant,'' said the event would mark the begin­ning of' 'seven years of tribula­tion,'' after which Christ will return and the kingdom of God will be re-established on earth. A spokesman for the ortho­dox Haha'i faith, which was worldwide membership, said Jensen was expelled from the church in 1960 and his Mon­tana group has no connection with the established Baha'i religion. 


SUbegins Irish Wake lost&found 
All items found at last Satur­day's Irish Wake should be brought to the Student Union offices on the second floor of LaFortune. Persons may claim lost items during the office's daily hours. 



LaFortune Student Cenrer Main Lobby A rea 

by .peci41""""8""""'' with Gallery Lainzberg, Cedar Rll{>ids, Iowa 
YOU'VELOVEDTHEM 
ALL YEAR AT 12:15MASS-­NOWHEARTHEMON .THEIR NEW ALBUM! The 12:15 MASS GROUP performs old and new favorites 
GETYOURCOPYTODAY 
only$5 

Available fjiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil 
'at either Campus Ministry 
office 

somethin~ 


borrowed something new 

The Observer 

The ND Bandperformedyesterday for students and faculty as part of their "Concert on the Lawn," program. [photo by Beth PrezioJ 
~I>reqrriresshoennaker 


to relocate fronn Badin shop 
by Gary Cuneen 

In an attempt to ask for an alternative working post on campus, shoemaker Tony Ser­gio met Vice-President of Stu­dent Affairs, Thomas Mason, Friday, but the initial decision remained. Sergio will have to leave Badin Hall by June 14, and no alternative location on campus will be leased to him. Mason explained that Notre Dame has priorities, including the demand for social space and areas for laundry facilities. 
"We would've probably let Tony remain excep. i:"or the remodeling necessity tfire safe­ty stairway) in Badin Hall. It becomes a question of the need for the servic;o versus other options,·' sai<.i Mason. ''And I take thar responsibili­ty.'. 
Although Tony expressed his meeting with Mason as friend­ly, he still regrets having to leave. ''Notre Dame is like my second home.. but what can I do? I got to It"ave." Tony continued. '·I think Notre Dame has changed tG a bigger (busi­ness-wide) school, and I don't know if it's right." 
Tony is hoping to find a place close to campus, so those wishing to continue doing busi­ness with him may do so. Mason added that Notre Dame 
Panamanian 
Archbishop 



to speak 
''The Problems of El Salva­

dor and Other Social Concerns 
in Latin America" will be 
discussed by the Most Rev. 
Mark McGrath, C.S.C., Catho­
lic archbishop of Panama, at a 
public talk at 8 p.m. tonight in 
the Ballroom of LaFortune 
Student Center. 
Archbishop McGrath is 

attending sessions of the Notre 
Dame Board of Trustees on 
campus. He will be introduced 
by Rev. John L. Van Wolvlear, 
C.S.C., vice president for stu­dent affairs. 
will supply men and a truck to help Tony relocate when his lease ends. 
Tony emphasized his gratitude to the people who have suppor­ted his business. ''I want to thank all the people who come to my business, and I want to thank the students for their support," said Tony. In his appreciation, Tony concluded by saying that he would be giving away free green shoe­
Wednesday, April 30, 1980 -page 3 

Marozsan resigns in dispute 
by Tom jackman News Editor 
Steve Marozsan liked to think of himself as r,art of' 'the Notre Damefamily.' Forallofhis55 years, he has lived only a block from campus, remembers meeting Knute Rockne when he was six; he worked in the South Dining Hall when he was 16, and in the original "Huddle" during the days ofFrank Leahy. His father was a groundskeeper here for 25 years. 
Last fall he took a job as a member ofNotre Dame's secur­ity force working nights at the Main Gate, after four years of receiving unemployment and Social Security disability com­pensation, but yesterday, Mar­ozsan claims he was forced to resign by Security Director Glenn Terry because "they were afraid of me.'' He described the competitiveness which exists between members of the Security force, and said that his popularity among stu­dents made them ''fearful that I was going to go beyond them." 
Terry would not comment on the matter. 
In his letter of resignation, Marozsan charges that Terry had earlier asked him to resign and ''quietly fade from the campus," despite the fact that Maroszan would then be ineli­gible for the federal benefits he previously received due to a spinal handicap. Initially, he refused. 
However, after a written warn­ing from Terry questioning his "judgement, tactfulness and ability to work in harmony with your fellow employees" and an 
oral conversation 10 which Ter­laces to students wanting them. 

Nightwatchman marks his 65th year of' service toND 
by 'Hary Fran Callahan Senior StaffReportel· 

Pat Mulcaire, a nightwatch­man on the North Quad, literal ly has Notre Dame in his blood. 
Now eighty, Mulcaire has been with the University since 1925. He described his varied range of occupations as encom­passing everyting from "pain­ter to plumber." 
But time alone has not pro­verbially injected the Univer­sity into the nightwatchman's veins: Mulcaire's family pos­sesses multiple connections with the University. 
"My brother was Vice-Presi­dent of the University at one time," Mulcaire explained and acknowledged that his brother has since died. , 
Mulcaire's aunt was a rector­ess in St. Ed's Hall for forty six years. His cousin, Fr. Pat Caroll, directed the Ave Maria Press in earlier days. 
Originally from Ireland, Mulcaire explained what brought him to Notre Dame. "I had a 13 year old sister who wanted to come to America. She was too young to go by herself, so I took a leave and brought her over," she com­mented. 
After Mulcaire: arrived in 

America, his sister attended school while he sought employ­ment. For six months, he worked at St. Joseph's farm, which Notre Dame owned, and Mulcaire was them offered a job at the University. 
Incidentally, that little sister 

is now a nun at the Holy Cross 
Parish in South Bend, Another 
sister of Ivlulcaire's is alsL-2 
nun who no"' retired, lives at 
Saint Mary's College. 
Mulcaire, who resides alone 
in his South Bend home, said he 
~njoys his nightwatchman posi­
tion and ha~ no immediate 
plans to retire. • 
"I don't want to stay in a 
hous~ by myself all the time. I 
like tG work to pass the time," 
.he commented. 
He. adds that he enjoys 
meeung the students and 
knows the residents of the hall 
he guards ''all by their first 
names.'' 
. Offering over half a century's 
w1sdom, Mulcaire intimated 
that people really never do 
change. "There really is no 
difference in the students that 
were here in the twenties,'' he 
commented but added, "Of 
course, I don't think that to­
d~y' s stude~ts would put up 
wah the stnct rules they had 
back then." 
Mulcaire explained that stu­
dent~ had to sig~ in and sign 
out in the evemngs. Rectors. 
would check beds to insure that ·all dorm residents were in bed 
by the determined curfew. 
The nightwatchman thinks 
coeducation is a plus for the 
campus. "It's better this way, 
and the students are all won­
derful," he said. 
Cavanaugh Hall honored 
Mulcaire last year at a special 
~inner by awarding him the 
utle ofHall Fellow. Proud of his 
honor, Mulcaire added with a 
rouch of se'ntimentality, ''And 
they gave me a great beer 
mug." · 
· 
ry reportedly told Maroszan that he would be "on the spot constantly,'' Maroszan then re· signed in a four-page letter to Terry. He commented that simply working his post was "enough of a challenge." 
Marozsan says he actively cultivated the friendship of on-campus students that passed through his post at the Main Gate, "showing a sincere interest in their studies and campus activities." He notes that he was always willing to stop and talk with students at the gate, and they tagged him with the nickname •'Boog Powell." He once offered to throw a party for students and other friends at his house, but Terry vetoed that idea. Maros­zan protested to an old acquain­tance, Dean James Roemer, and he believes that Terry became incensed at him for going over his head. 
"We shouldn't treat these people like prisoners, these are intelligent young men and wo­men,'' said Marozsan. He feels that the present Security force discourages forming relation­ships with students-a charge which Terry denies-and that "until that changes, there's going to be continued confron­tation" between students and Security. 
"It's not necessary to project a strong-arm image," Marozsan added, "and I don't think ·I qualify for the image of Security officer." He characterized the present Security staff as made up of "strong, young men who had high ambitions ofbecoming 

police officers, and never 
achieved it," but he added that 
he holds no animosity towards 
these men. 
Marozsan's letter outlined a 
pattern of dissension through­
out the Security force and 
particular bad feelings directed 
towards him by other members 
of the organization. The four 
page letter expresses a tone of 
bewilderment as Marozsan fre­
quently wonders ''what drastic, 
unmentionable offenses have I 
committed to warrant taking 
the bread from our table, 
causing my wife undue emo­
tional strains to want to divorce 
me?'' He noted later that Terry 
"wouldn't divulge the charges 
against me.'' 
Marozsan clearly enjoyed hk. 
job ("I love this University") 
and he happily recounts the­
stories of the time he talked a 
~roup of rowdies out of smash· 
mg through the gate during his 
first week, and the time a bunch 
of students helped him cele­
brate St. Patrick's Day. 
"I love my kids because I 
know what the heck is going 
down," he says, "and I want to 
hear from my old gang again. 
They're the greatest bunch of 
guys I ever met." 
A petition is being circulated 
in several halls on Marozsan's behalf, he said, but he does not believe it will have a chance of getting his job back. He said the future looks "bleak" for him, but concluded, "I know I'm right in the way I ran that gate (''I had very little trouble at my gate," he once said) and ·I'd do it again and again and 
again-and be fired for it." 


Part-time Research Assistant 
Wll need acampus represenllltNe to assist us in lleveloping mailing lists ol selected senior and graduale students. Ingenuity, perseverance and reliability required. Would prefer someone w1to can work tor us in this capacity lor several years to come. No "rags Ill riches" income, but certainly allractive Hyou need additional money to help meet rising.~xpenses. 
Hyou are interested in learning more about this opportunity, fill out the toUpon'below and mail it lllday. 
1am interested In learning more about being your NMI Associates campus representative. Please tumish me with Attn: Nevil Johnson pertinent details. P.O. Box 19722• Dept. COLAOS Dallas, Texas 75219 
Name 
-------------·--. 

~reu ________________________ 
Clly ________________ Stale ___ Zip~--­
Phone Number _____ College or Univ, ___ Dept. or Class~~~­
--------------------------~--------·--------­
MOVING HOME? 
HEY! DON'TWAIT 
UNTIL THELAST MINUTE TO MAKE 
PLANS. 



CALL 


• U-MOVE • U-.5TORE 287-6533 • 282-2801 
FOR RESERVATION 
: !­
,•:• \ 
( 1.
I ' .(
~. . .· i 

The Observer Wednesday, April 30, 1980 -page 4 

KEY WEST, Fla. (AP)-The 
ragtag fleet of the ·'Freedom 
Flotilla'' found smooth seas 
yesterday and immigration offi­
cials braced for new waves of 
refugees reaching the Florida 
shores with at least 1,250 boats 
loading in Cuba. 
"We are preparing for what 
we expect to be a flood ... of :-efugee laden vessels headed for t<ey West,·· said C~ast Guard Cmdr. Samuel Dennts at 
a news briefing. . . 
The first boat to arnve smce 
a weekend storm tied up at yesterday with 58 refugees aboard. 
Weeping refugees streamed off the 39-foot r"mmercial fish­ing boat ' Roadrunner" telling of how a Cuban soldier who tried to swim out to their ship to join them was cau~ht by other soldiers and vtciously beaten. 
Crews of Coast Guard heli­copters reponed "a large num­ber'' of vessels leaving the port of Marie!, where the Cuban government has allowed exiles to pick up relatives and other 

PICKERING 
Active Sportswear A terrific gift ideafor Mother's and Father's day Day.
* 
Beautiful Cardigan Sweaters 

* 
100% "Downy" V-NECK Sweaters

* 
100% Lisle Cotton Golf Shirts 

* 
Terrycloth Pullovers 

* 
ManystylesToChooseFrom

* 
A Full Range Ot Colors And Sizes 

* 
All Are Beautifully Embroidered These items along with many more can be 


seen daily, Monday through thru Friday, from 12pm to Spm at the ICE RINK PRO SHOP. 
Enter the A.C. C. at GATE 3· 
the Peruvian Embassy 
in Havana. 
Immigration officials esti· mated that more than 3,500 refugees arrived in Florida last week in the boatlift, which was temporarily stalled by a Sun­day storm that swept the Straits of Florida with hurri­cane force winds. 
An estimates 300 boats left Key West on Tuesday, bound for Cuba 90 miles to the south. 
Timothy Tower of the U.S. Interests Section at the Seill Embassy in Havanasaid 1,252 small boats were already wait­ing to pick up refugees at Marie!. Havana Radio put the number at 1,737. 
Coast Guard officials said 
that by early yesterday thev 
had as~isted 59 boats since the 
unorganized boatlift got under­
way. Of the. 59, 42 were 
disabled, 15 were found aban­
doned, nine were found sunk 
and eight were found c;1psized 
with no sign of life around 
them. Two men drowned. 
Coasr Guard officials said six large cutters were stationed across the straits, to a point about 30 miles from Cuba, to be close at hand in case any boaters need assistance. 
Havana Radio reponed that Cuban patrol boats '-were posted about every six miles on their side of the straits. . 
Dennis said the Coast Guard didn't have enough manpower to prevent boats from leaving here, but said cutters were ordering ''grossly unsafe'' boats back to port. 
Wendt 
to lecture 
atND 
Alben Wendt, Western Samoan novelist ar.d poet, will lecture at Notre Dame today, on "The Commonwealrh Wri­ter and the Emergence of South Pacific Literature." Best known for his autobiographical novel about Samoan school days in New Zealand, Sons for the Return Home, Wendt is also rhe author ofFlying-Fox in a Freedom Tree, Inside Us the Dead, and Pouliu/i. 
Wendt will speak at 7:30 
p.m. in Room 331 (O'Shag). 

Senator Kennedy vtstts rescue survtvors 
(AP) -Sen. Edward M K~nne­dy, solemnly retracm~ Presi­dent Caner's steps, vJstted four hospitalized survivors of the ill-fated Iranian rescue misston 011 Tuesday and citt>d rhem +-"or ·'their courage and their brave­ry." 
The Massachusew; senator and his wife, Joan. spt>nt 3 naif-hour talking with the tour in the burn unit of Brooke Armv Medical Center near San An­
tonto, Texas, roughly 24 hour~ after the pre~tdent's visit 
Kennedv and his aides went out of the-ir way to tell reporter~ the visit was nor dolitical and was not schedule at the last minute to counter the presi­dent's appearance at the hospi­tal Monday. 
Kennedy told reporters he decided Saturday to make the trip because he already was scheduled to be in San Antonio on Tuesday. As fu: Carter's meeting wtth the InJure? s~~­vicemen the senator satd, I know th~ fact that the president had visited the servicemen, but this is something that I feel very strongly about and I wasn'r going to be dissuaded.'' 
The hospital visit came after a Kennedy breakfast .meeti.ng with Texas farmers 10 wh1ch Caner's challenger for the 
Resignation 
follows pattern 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The 
resignation of Cyrus R. Vance marks the second time in seven years that a secretary of state, supposedly the chief American foreign policy ex­. pen, has left oftlce after losing a conflict with the president's national security 
advisor. 
The repetition of the pat­
tern has caused renewed 
fears among foreign policy 
experts that the national se­
curity adviser has become an 
inevitable rival of the secre­
tary of state, to the detriment 
of U.S. foreign policy inter­
ests. 
"For the national security 
advisor and his staff to func­
tion as a kind of mini-State 
department is a perversion of 
the office. He should not be a 
policy source,' ' said W ashin~­
ton attorney Paul Warnke m 
an interview yesterday Warn­
ke, a forei~n policy official in 
rwo admintstrations. most re­
cently served as director of 
the Arms Control and Dis­
armament Agency. 
Even Henry Kissinger, 
whom some blame for the 
rivalry, thinks it is a problem. 
"I have become convinced 
that the president should 
make the secretary of state 
his principal adviser and use 
the national security adviser 
as a senior administrator and 
coordinator,'' he wrote in his 
memoirs. 
''If the security adviser 
becomes active in the devel­
opment and articu}atiC!n of 
policy, he must tnevttably 
diminish the secretary ofstate 
and reduce his effectiveness. 
Foreign governments are con­
[continued on page 5] 

DeJi:oL.atir · ,rf·sidential nomi­
natr•H\ sed<:·~ votes in Satur­
day:, Texas Democratic pri 
mary and pr~cincr caucuses, 
renewed l-w· criticism of Car­
te• ·· . ·•nain,·,, 1. of grain ship­
merw w rr-;: ;,nviet lJnwn tn 
reJ->1 •. ,.:11 lor '•'•(•scow's milirarr 
occu:•ation •· '.fghantstan. 
l'h<· !!rain ,, 1rgo has lar~ely 
been dorm,;_ ,., an issue smce 
its dornma• ·>!1 nf much of the­
poii . • -,.-.-":ttgn preceding 
tht: ,.m lowa precinct 
cautuses, w•.: h Kennedy lost 
to Li1ner b, . ' l margin. 
\X •· · , Ker.tlt:dy stumped fur vorr·.:o Ji1 Texas. fohn B. Ander­son and CBS !'-Jews anchorman Walter Cwnkire denied a pub­lished report that Cronkite had offered to become the indepen­dent. candidar. ;, vice presidell­tial running ma~e. 
Campaigning in Atlanta, An­derson laughe-d off the report, saying it wasn t so and under­lining ir by wvoking Cronkite's famous "that's the way it is" one-liner. 
Meanwhile, an NBC News-As­sociated Press poJI said Ameri­cans who are familiar with Anderson's policies and posi­tions on the issues rate the Republican congressman from Illinois as one of the most liberal contenders for the presi­dency. 
The telephone poll of 1,603 persons, taken last Friday and Saturday, said that despite a general lack of familiarity with Anderson, almost one-third of those questioned indicated they might vote for him in Novem­ber. 
In balloting Saturday, Texas begins the process of selecting its 152-member delegation to the Democratic National Con­vention in August. On the same day, Texas Republicans selecr 80 delegates to their partv's national convention in 
July, with Ronald Reagan the easy favorite. While Kennedy trails Carter by a wide margin in publ!c 
•>pinion polls in the state, hts aides are counting on strong support from Hispanic voters to boose his showing in certain areas. 
A &L'"'Jociety 
sponsors 
career night 
The Arts and Letters Busi­
ness Society is sponsoring a 
presentation dealing with ca 
reer opportunities which exist 
for Arts and Letters graduates. Robert J. Waddick, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and Paul J. Reynolds, Placement Specialist, together 
will conduct the lecture held 
tonight at 7:00 p.m. in Room 
118 (O'Shag). 
They will also discuss career 
opportunities for Arts and Let­
ters graduates who intend to 
pursue an MBA degree. The 
speakers will then present a 
comprehensive explanation of 
the Placement Bureau as a tool 
to be utilized in a job search. 
Freshmen, sophomores, and juniors are encouraged to attend. 
The Observer Wednesday, April 30, 1980 -page 5 

Rogers and Kiwwinger. Both 
men were aware that the 
press had a tendency to draw

Guntnen attack Iranian diplotnat . 
Prof Dennis Goulet spoke yesterday on world justice and world concerns at a ceremony at the CCE yesterday. fphoto by Beth Prezio] 
KUWAIT (AP) -Gunmen in cars fired a hail of bullets at a motorcade carrying Iranian For­eign Minister Sadegh Ghotbza­deh motorcade at 9:30 this morning. No one was hurt," said a statement carried by Kuwait's official news agency. 
Ghotbzadeh, who arrived in Kuwait on Monday, was being driven to a meeting with Ku­wait's official news agency. 
Ghotbzadeh, who arrived in Kuwait on Monday, was being driven to a meeting with Ku­wait's leader. Sheik ] aber AI­Ahmad, when the attack occur­red, the agency said. 
Ghotbzadeh is visiting several Mideast countries in an attempt to improve Iran's relations with Arab governments. He came here from Lebanon after visit­ing Syria. From Kuwait, he is scheduled to go on to Bahrain and to the United Arab Emi­rates. Iran is a Moslem nation, but not Arab. 
Ike Kuwait Interior Ministry sard police tracked down two cars used in the attack and that they were loaded with weapons and explosives. There was no mention of arrests. 
The official Iranian Pars news agency said one of the cars was 
Notre Dame 
•

recetves 
grant 
Notre Damr i•a..; t·,• t>ived a grant from h..: Co-.~ucil for lnternation<l. Exchanr;e ofk Scholars to ur,denvri•e a visit· ing professot.:hip ft•t a Latin­American eCC'•.o'llist who will join the :pcon.,:n ir!< D ·partment during the sp; 111g srrj~~ster of 1981. 
A search f01 ..a noLLr1 scholar to fill the p·-saion m the Fulbright Vi...:ing Frr1fessor Program is :..'.(~erway accord­ing to Dr. Cl:·,rks K. \Xftlber, chairman of ·L<> Norr•· Dame department 
Masterof Suspense 

Filtn tnaker Alfred Hitchcock dies 
HOLLYWOOD (AP)-Sir · Alfred Hitchcock, the master of suspense whose movies charmed and terrified audien­ces for more than )0 years, died of natural causes yester­day at the age of 80. 
Hitchcock, who was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II of Eng­land last December, had been in failing health for the past year, plagued with arthritis and kidney failures. His condition deteriorated over the past weekend, and his family -including his widow, Alma, daughter. Patricia (Mrs.]oseph O'Connell) and three grand children-was with him when 

found outside the Iraqi Embas­sy here and ''the passengers of the car left the vehicle and entered the Iraqi Embassy there." Kuwaiti authorities did not confirm the report and there was no immediate comment from Iraq. 
Pats said one Kuwaiti security agent was slightly wounded during the attack. It also said police had picked up two sus­pects and recovered 20 guns and that Kuwait had closed its airport and borders. 
Iraq earlier blamed Iran for two recent assasination at­tempts against Iraqi govern­ment officials in Baghdad, capi­tal of Iraq. Last Sunday, Tehran Radio claimed Iraqi President Saddam Hussein had been killed in a coup, but Iraq dismissed the report as ''the result of a sick imagination." In recent weeks, the two coun­tries have engaged in an escala­ting verbal battle and occasion­al skirmishes along their com­mon border. 
The Kuwaiti news agency first 
reported that Ghotbzadeh es­
caped an assassination attempt 
but later said it "appeared" to 
be an assassination attempt. Ghotbzadeh's motorcade con­.tinued its journey to~ar~ the 
palace without further mctdent, 
it said. · 
The Iranian official the pur­pose of his tour was to explain that Iran ''does not want to interfere in any country's inter­nal affa,irs." He said his attackers were trying to destroy ~ood relation between Iran and us neighbors, but that his talks with Kuwaiti leaders had been successful. 
Newspapers here reported Kuwait would side with Iraq if hostilities between Iran and Iraq developed into war. 
kThe governments of Kuwait 
and the other monarchies of the 
Arabian Peninsula are, like 
Iraq's socialist government, 
worried that Ayatollah Ruhollah 
Khomeini is trying to export his 
Islamic revolution from Iran. 

McDonnell hails new Dome advisory board 
by Dan LeDuc welcomed the board, stated that the two things consistently 
Student Activities Director associated with award-winning James McDonnell has yearbooks are an ample budget ·announced the establishment and strong faculty advice. 
death came at his Bel Air 
home, said Herb Steinberg, a spokesman for Universal Pic­tures. 
"I have lost a great friend, and the world has lost a man who made a tremendous contri­bution to our business," said actor ] ames Stewart, who starred in Hitchcock's "Rear Window,'' ''The Man Who Knew Too Much" and "Ver­tigo." 
Hitchcock loved to frighte · moviegoers and exercised his talent to the limit in creating chilling situations fo,r the screen. He frequently ap­
• • • Resignation 
parallels between Bance and 
Rogers, both New York law­
yers, and Kissin~er and Brze­
zinski, both foretgn-born, lby 
league foreign policy profes­
sors. 
The issue that led to Vance's resignation was the aborted attempt to rescue the hostages in Iran. Brzezinski, according to sources, favored the attempt, as did Secretary of Defense Harold Brown. 
At an April 11 National Security Council meeting, Brzezinski's view prevailed. Vance was not even at the meeting. He was on a brief bacation in Florida, and the sources say he was not advis­ed that the rescue attempt would be considered at the meeting. Although Vance had a chance to present his views later to Carter, the tentative decision of April 11 was not changed. 


r----fiiVEiiciTYiicO-fios_____, 
northern Indiana's largest record & tope selection and concert ticket headquarters 
Sl.OO 
any regular album or tope 
purchase with this coupon. OFF limit on• p•r p•rson ·~pi••• may 30,1980 
120,000albums & tapealn stock 

• 
Huge cut-out and speclallmpolt selection Iop•n 10to 10, 7

•NP-SffiC 
checks accepted up to S20.00 days 1 1 


over purchase amount op•n IOto 10 277-4242 I 150910U1S, 31 No(tb...!. 3mll•s noa'l,.of 2JllP.n...:..2:~~J!::.!~P.:!:.O~.:.tJ 
never has such a board before. Dome. Tentative plans for the 
McDonnell said that the future call for the board to board will be composed of meet. several times a year . pe_ople who have expertise in Individual board members will areas relevant to the yearbook be available anytime for con­and who are willing to share sultation. their knowledge with students Board members are: Kathleen willing to learn. He stressed Weigert, assistant dean of that the board's capacity will -Collegiate Seminar; Donald be strictly advisory and that Nelson, graphic designer­ultimate decisions concerning Printing and Publications; Carl Dome activities and policies Mager, director ofPrintin~ and will continue to be made by Publications; Zenon Bidzmski, students. , · third year law student; Paul 
Dome Editor AI Dreyer, in Didier, thrid year student in 
cooperation with the editorial 
1
the College of Arts and Letters; ~~---J.t'""'

board of the yearbook, selected and]ames McDonnell, director 
the advisory board. He said of Student Activities. One or that the board has been a two students outside the Dome matter of discussion since last staff are expected to be added fall. Dreyer, who readily to this list. 
peared fleetingly in his· own 
films-his few seconds on the 
screen becoming a trademark. 
"Certainly he was a master 
at his profession," said actress 
] anet Leigh, who starred in 
"Psycho," when told of his 
death. ''Whenever we did see 
each other, he had a wonderful 
little story to tell.'' 
"He always executed his 
suspense with taste, he never 
offended you," said "Psycho" 
costar Anthony Perkins. "You 
were scared by it, but pleasant­
ly." 

Hitchcock was nominated for 
an Oscar four times, but never 
won. 

In April 1968, however, the 
Academy of Motion Picture 
Arts and Sciences voted hirn 
the Irving G. Thalberg awb.rcl 
''for consistent high level of 
productions.'' And on March 7, 1979, Hitchcock was given the Lifetime Achievement ·Award of the American Film Institute in a nationally tele­
vised ceremony. 
Despite his ailments, he had 
been preparing yet another 
film-his 54th. He called it 
''The Short Night'' and it was 
based on the real-life case of 
George Blake, a British traitor 
be,lieved responsible for the 
deaths of 42 British agents. 
He was familiar to television 
audiences as well as movie­
goers through his 1950s series, 
"Alfred Hitchcock Presents." 
Millions knew the music that 
bumped along as Hitchcock's 
shadow merged with the cari­
ture of his profile. (The tune 
was Gounod's "Funeral March 
of a Marionette.'') 
Except when promoting his 
work, however, Hitchcock 
stayed out of the public eye. 
His rare appearances on the 
Hullywood social scene were 
usually caused by the bestow­
ing of a new honor. 
Born August 14, 1899, the 
son ofa London poultry dealer, 
Hitchcock began his career in 
1925 and came to the United 
States in 1940. He became a 
naturalized U.S. ctuzen in 
19) 5. Although granted knighthood, he had not gone through the actual ceremony of being dubbed a knight. He planned to do so this year. 
[continued from page 4] 
fused ana, equally dangerous, given the opportunity to play 
one part of our  government  
off against  the  other,''  he  
said.  

Kissinger was an active participant when the conflict first became serious in the early years ofRichard Nixon's administration. William Rogers eventually resignc:!d after it had become painfully clear that Kissinger had e­
mer~ed as the winner in their conflict. The Vance-Brzezinski con­flict was not as dramatic or one-sided as that between 

The Observer Wednesday, April 30, 1980 -page 6 

Politicians campaign inIndiana 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Vice Center Township trustee. former California governor will President Walter F. Mondale, She also will talk with sup­spend. Sunday in Indianapolis, Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, porters at Dr. Osborne's office and will speak at an afternoon Rosalynn Cart{"r and Ronald on Massachusetts Avenue. rally. Rusthoven said Reagan Reagan all plan campaign trips Mondale will appear Friday in will remain in the state through to Indiana to woo voters in the Fort Wayne at a fundraiser for Monday. stare's May 6 presidential pri­Sen. Birch Bayh, D-Ind., but Reagan's campaign is aimed 
mary. the appearance also is designed at capturing all 54 delegates 
With the primary a week to help the Carter-Mondale and Rusthoven said he is optim­away, the ~ampaigning is in­ticket m the primary. Bayh, istic about that goal. To tensifying for the 80 Democratic who is remaining neutral in the capture all the delegates, National Convention delegates Carter-Kennedy, campaign, Reagan must come in first in 
and the 54 Republican Nattonal had Kennedy as the speaker at each of the state's 11 congres­Convention delegates at stake a fundraiser in } anuary. sional districts. in the Indiana contest. Kennedy returns to Indiana George Bush and John 
Mrs. Carter plans to visit to campaign in Indianapolis and Anderson also appear on the Gary and Indianapolis today, Evansville and his Indiana GOP ballot, but neither has campaigning on behalf of her pressspokeswoman, Karen campaigned in Indiana. husband, President Carter. Ernst, said the Massachusetts Anderson also has mounted an 
In Gary, she will dedicate a Democrat likely will return this independent bid for the presi­new mental health facilit}':, weekend for more campaign­dency. while in Indianapolis, s]shewill mg. On the Democratic side, 
These two students appear to have no trouble foreseeing meet with reporters and with Reagan campaign spokesman party rules all but cancel a the end ofsdool and the long-awaited summer. Dr. Benjamin Osborne, the Peter Rusthoven said ·the winner-take-all <>ituation. 
Al.though mo-st state party offietals are in Carter's camp, t~ey agree that Kennedy Will pick up some Indiana dele­gates, but they expect the bulk of the delegates to go to the 
president. 
... Muskie 

[continued from page 1] 
candidate on the 1968 Demo­cratic Party ticket. Humphrey and Muskie lost to Richard M. Nixon. · 
A former governor of Maine and also a state legislator, Muskie was elected to the Senate in 1958. 
He ran for the Democratic presidential nomination in 1972. As a means of gatherin~ foreign expertise, Muskie toured Israel, Egypt, the Soviet Union and West Germany. In Russia he talked with Soviet Premier Alexei Kosygin and said he found him "completely cordial and frank.'' · 
In • February 1979 Muskie visited Poland as Carter's en­voy and met with Polish leader Edward Gierek for talks on economic matters and the SALT II arms treaty. In that same trip, he visited West Germa.ny, Portugal, Spain and Belgium. 
Muskie, 6 foot 4, often has been called "Lincolnesque" because of his height, lean figure and craggy face. 
He was born in Rumford, Maine, March 28, 1914, the son ofa Polish immigrant. His father, a tailor, had been named Marciszewski, but
If you have a $10,000 job waiting for you, traveled use for business lunches, buying clothes 
immigration officials shortened 
you could have an American Express® Card for work, paying for vacations-for all sorts of the name to Muskie and it right now. after-school activities. became official when his father became a citizen.
Trade the card you've been using every day One of the surest ways to establish yourself is for the Card you'll be using the rest of your life. to start out as if you were already established. And 
~*************** 
You're about to leave school and enter a whole just having the Card gives you the chance to 
* * 
new world. You've got great expectations. So establish a solid credit rating. ~ BU'\1 ~ does American Express. For you. So trade up now, Just pick up an application * J * 
That's why American Express has created a form here on campus, or at a store or restaurant. * * special plan that reduces the usual application Or call toll-free 800-528-8000 and ask for a Spe­~ Observer ! reLJuircments-so you can get the Card before cial Student Application. And set yourself up for * *
* * 
you finish schtx)l. next year before you finish this one. 
* * All you need to apply is a $10,000 job or the ! Class~fieds ~ promise ofone. The American Express''Card. * * * * 
Y<m'll use the Card the wea and the well-Don't leave school without it. 
'*******~~·****' 

Editorial Board and Department Ma.nagers 
Editor-in· Chief ........... ." Paul Mullaney SMC News Edrto1 . . . . . . . Mary Leavitt 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Managing Editor .............. Mark Rust Sports Editor . . . . . P•eth Huffman 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Features Editor . Kate Farrell 
Editonals Editor ........... Mike Onufrak 

University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle~e. It doe·s not necessarily 
Features Editor ..... Molly Woulfe
Senior Copy Editor ......... Lynne Daley 

reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reponed Photo Eduor . . . . . . . . . . . John Macor
News Editor .................. Pam Degnan 

as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a 
majority of the Ed\torial Board. Commentaries, opinions, and letters are the views News Editor ................ Tom Jackman BusznessManag.:.~ ........ -:..1reg Hedges 
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and News Editor ............... John McGrath Advertrszng Mana~t"r .. M1·ke Holsing r 
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. SMC Executive Editor .. Margie Brassil Production Managt:!T .... Ann Monag~ .c.n 
The Observer 
... Lifton 

[continued from page I] 
"I can't see where Lifton is coming from'' said another professor stressing the same problems of vague and indirect communication which students say characterize their own interviews with the chairman. 
Another departing professor said that "enrollment figures for next semester are a disas­ter. There is one new course with an enrollment of none." 
Another course, Introduction to Film, had once been a very popular offering in the depart­ment. When taught by Miles Coiner, it was a great success, with more applicants than spaces available. After Lifton terminated Coiner's contract last year, Coiner was replaced in teaching the course, and enrollment has been continuing on a downward spiral. 
While Lifton states that the thrust of Theatre in the new curriculum will be ''perform­ance,'' there is strong dis­agreement among students and faculty on what he m~ans .. Inside his department, Lrfton Is well known for ''going toward a 'critical studies' department more appropriate in a graduate level,'' said one professor. The conflict between a theater performance and theater anal­ysis thrust is aggravated by the fact that most of the faculty hired by former department chairman Reginald Bam, now a profeffor in Communic~r;.o11 and Theatre, came to Nc.:re Dame/Saint Mary's to do theater. At that time, the University was looking forward ro a major renovation of.Wash­ington Hall. Accordmg to Bain, James Burtchaell•. pro­vost at that time, led hrm to believe that funding would soon be available for theater expansion. This mone~ never materialized, and unul very recently, Washington H~ll had no priority in the Campatgn for Notre Dame. 
An outside analysis of the department led to a shift of emphasis from theater to communications, a change that made an extensive Theatre faculty superfluous. 
One result of this analysis, 
which Provost Timothy 
O'Meara refused to release, 
was the search that established 
Mitchell Lifton as Speech and 
Drama chairman. 
Lifton's style of leadership seems to be the fulcrum for controversy in his department. Some claim he is high handed; others are more tolerant in their criticism. 
One professor said "basical­ly what we have to say as faculty members is meaning­less to him." At a recent department meeting, one of the tenured faculty reportedly declared "I have the right to be treated like a colleague, not a custodian." 
Students and faculty accuse Lifton of neglecting theatrical productions. One professor claims that "people have got­ten no support or help. It is central to our job as faculty to put together plays. Lifton has really systematically torn down what was beins done. '' 
Students clarm Liften shows no visible support for their work and use "Second Scene" as an example. The import­ance of Second Scene--senior productions equivalent to the 
main theater season--lies in the fact that they are the equiva­lent of senior comprehensives for Theatre majors. 
''For students who are ser­ious, this is the culmination of four years oi work,'' Hanrahan said. "Lifton has not attended any of them. H~ told us ~e often works overume, not grv­ing him a chance to go to them. butBut that doesn't show any support for the students. All the fa~~lty except Lifton attend them. 
Another problem, which arose this year concerned the summer theater program. The program, an important one for Theatre majors, has been run successfully by Bain for years,. Bain who is on leave this sem~ster, received a major research and travel graves that made it impossible for him to take on the summer program this year, according to Lifton. 
"I asked faculty members if they wanted to work it, and Diane Hawfield was the only one to volunteer," Lifton said. "We had to wait until March for the budge to come back, and she thought about it and said she wasn't prepared to take on the job.'' 
Hawfield explained that the budget for the summer session did not come in until the end of March. "This just didn't leave me enough time," she said. Usually the whole thing is planned early in the semester. It takes time to choose the season, get students ~igned up and do costume destgns.Be~ause of the lack of time the season had to be cut from four adult shows and . three child­ren's shows to only three adult shows. There was no way I could do it with such late notice. The budget should have come through earlier." 
As a result, the department has hired Dr. Hernandez Tomas, a profess_or from 
Bloomington,  to  dtrect  the  
program.  
Litton's  ability  to  provide  

effective publicity for the ND/SMC theater season has also been questioned by stu­dents and faculty. As chair­man, Lifton is nominaly re­sponsible for the publicity de­partment consisting of five paid student positions. 
Lifton said that the publicity office has been weak this year," but blamed it on stu­dents who run the office. 
Disenchantment with the way the department is being run at present caused students to turn to the administrations of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame for answers. "It's hard to understand what's happen­ing in the departt?ent,'' sa.id Hanrahan. "We tned to get 10 touch with the deans, but they told us we had to talk to the chairman.'' 
Attempts to talk to the chairman led to a meeting two weeks ago in Washin~ton Hall, at which Theatre maJors ques­tioned Lifton about the prob­lems they saw facing the department. The students left the meeting unsatisfied, they said. 
Kathy Horgan. said that "Before we went 10, we wrote out the questions we wanted to ask him. After we came out, we discussed it and we weren't really sure what he said. He was very unclear and skirted the issues. He mad·e us sound incompetent, or like we "Yere blaming the problems on hrm. We weren't, we just wanted some answers.'' 
However, according to stu­
dent kegina Pratt, "A lot of the students realized the meet­ing was good because we 
Wednesday, April 30, 1980 -page 7 

SBP Paul Riehle unveiled.the newly appointed members of his cabinet yesterday. Included in the appointments are the commissioners and supervisors of many stud·mt services. See story below. [photo by Beth PrezioJ 
SBPRiehle announces cabinet 
responsibility of The~ese. Ann gover_nn:ent' s 'first athletic Brown. Mary Pasquenlla ts the commtss1oner. Mike Dorciak 
new third world commissioner. wilL handle the co-ex program.The third executive coordin­
The new security commisswner 
ator is Lou Moran. The cabinet is Rose May. Publicity andmembers under Moran's guid­personnel will be the responsi­ance incude Brian Glade, direc­bility of Skip Desjardin, and 

tor of Alumni relations. 

Tim Hamilton is in charge of Patrick Gunning is student student orientation. 
OBSERVER NEEDS. VAN DRIVERS FOR 1980-81 YEAR. ALL 
DAYS AVAILABLE · THISISAPAID POSITION. Contact Tim at 8661 or 1387 
Student Body President Paul 
Reihle and Vice-President Don 
Ciancio announced the new 
members of their cabinet at a 
cabinet meeting last night. 
Riehle said that the cabinet 
will be divided into three parts, each under the direction of an executive coordinator. Every · commissioner will be respons­
ible to one of these coordina-· 
tot'S, as well as to the SBP and 
SBVP. 
Executive coordinator Frank 
Guilfoyle will have five comm­
issioners functioni~g .under 
him. Donald Schmrd IS the 
new academic commissioner. 
The HPC-CLC liaison is Erin 
O'Connor. Sean Heffernan 
heads the newly revived stu­
dent lobby. The position of 
housing commissioner will be 
filled by Ted Nacheff. Paul 
Callahan will handle research 
for student government. 
Don Murday, another execu­
tive coordinator, will have 
seven people in six c~~i!Jet 
positions as his responsrbday. 
Terry Parker and Elizabeth Boo 
are co-commissioners in charge 
of special projects. Larry 
Madden will handle the co-ed 
commissioner's job. Kelly 
Gaffney is the socialli.fe. comri?-­
issioner. Darryl Wdhams rs 
director of interracial affairs. 
Social concerns will be the 
finally had a chance to talk to him. One statement that he made at the meeting was that 
he had been putting a lot .of time into Speech and he reahz­ed he was neglecting the theater. But he told us that next year is the year for Theatre. I think some ofus are getting impatient waiting for 
'next year' to come." 
The big losers in the de­partmental change have been the Theatre majors who grad­uate in May. These students declared their intentions two years ago, before current policy transformed the Theatre concentration into the orphan of the Communications and Theatre Department. 
Administrative decisions have placed these students' concentration below their prior­ity of broadening the depart­
ment. The professors they
worked with throughout their college care rs suddenly be­
came as superfluous as the expanded Theatre program
verbally promised them by Fr. 
Burtchaell. 
only time will tell whether th.e depa~t~enral change was a WISe deCISIOn. 



\­

.. ... . ., 
• 1\ I­

, 

The Observer -Sports Wednesday, April 30, 1980 -page 8 ­
[continued from page 12] 
"It's not anything tangible that I do or say," says Huff­man, a marketing major. "But it's definitely there. The way I carry myself out on the field is important-! lead by example. It's not a designated role, but as I said, it's there." 
It's an attitude that pleases Meyers and the rest of the Irish 
CJH ... CJH... YE:Ai-J ... CL~S•.(:# I FMGaT To TELL YOU... ~ MY mJFE.SSOR... Hi: CALLED AM:> SAID.-HE. sAil> CV\5.5 


coaching staff. 
"Tim and John Scully (one of the tri-captains) both have as­sumed the leadership roles on the offensive line," notes Mey­ers. "It's like having two coaches out on the field.'' 
Off the field, Huffman is mixture of reserved and aggres­sive. He enjoys classical music, but if you told that to anyone who played against him in Bookstore Basketball, they'd wonder. 
"I really enjoy classical mu­sic," says Tim, "which doesn't go over too well in my section. I like to listen to it to relax." 
And in this year's Bookstore tournament, Huffman was out to keep up a family tradition. 
"I tried to keep the Golden 
by Michael Molinelli 



Hatchet award in the family 1 1 ' said Tim. The full name is the Dave Huffman GoldenMr. Boar Award, named for Tim's older brother who rewrote the defini­tion for earning a basket in Bookstore competition. Bill Hanzlik edged Tim for the honor this season. 
Huffman has one more year to bring the award back in the family. The coming football season should give him ample opportunity to gear up for the honor. 
''Tim is becoming a real technical player," said Meyers. "He understands what he has to do. His major goals have been body control and pass protection, and he has done well this spring at both. 
"I believe he is a complete player." 
... Glenn 

[continued from page 9] 
lifestyle," smiles Glenn, who 
had done nothing but sit on the 
bench for coach Willy Roy's 
squad until Sunday's exhibi­
tion. "It's not like college. 
You have to quiet down more, 
watch what you eat and get 
enough sleep. I haven't been 
out in three weeks." 
While some of the more 
established stars, obviously, 
can and do lead Jess disciplined 
lives, the status of an untested 
American collegian, who con­
ceeds "was not in one of the 
top .16 spots on the team" 
before his performance against 
the Kicks on Sunday, is far less 
stable and more subject to 
scrutiny. 
"It's professional here and 
you're always fi~hting for a 
job," Glenn sa1d after his 
surprising defensive showing 
against the Kicks' all-time 
leading scorer Alan Willey. 
"Ifyou're mentally fit--and you 
need the confidence--you can 
do the job. I'm waiting for my 
time to come right now." 
After a few shaky weeks in the Sting's Florida training camp Glenn's aggressive, bruising job on Willey earned him some valuable points with coach Roy. "He had to take a back seat before, but Rudy c~rtainly put, ,himself in the picture today. 
''I'm enjoying myself and having fun," says Glenn. "I love Chicago. The people and the town are great. It may be months or it may be years before I get to play, but this is what I want. I really feel confident in myself.'' 
While his native Europeans flock to soccer games by the hundreds of thousands, a rookie in the NASL must live with a limited recognltlon factor. The motivation for success must come fr0m within. Until the small circle of soccer diehards reaches major proportions, guys like Rudy Glenn will just have to learn to play games for the love of it all. 
... Tim 

Molarity 



ACROSS  26  Aerodynamic  
1  Unoccupied  force  
7  Paint  27  Like it- 
additives  29  Surfacing  
13  Stone or  material  
Gravel  30  Norman  
14  Bests in  Vincent  
a race  31  Less dis·  
16  Cosmic  ordered  
measure  33  Deplored  
17  Merry  35  Barney and  
18  Broke fast  Betty of  
19  Name of  Bedrock  
tame in  37  Pone in·  
Peking  gredient  
20  Peridot,  41  Colors  
tor one  46  Zodiac sign  
21  Agricul·  47  Dry  
tural org.  49  Laconic  
22  Chinese  50  Schism  
dynasty  51  Broom of  
24  Bumpkins  twigs  

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


The Daily Crossword 

All Rights Reserved 

BUS SCliEDULE FOR 
''UNDER MILKWOOD'' 
(APRIL 25,26 MAY 1,2,3) 


(BENDIX THEATRE) LEMANSHALL 
~-------------­
53  Scottish  
inventor  
54  Plant or  
head  
55  The sun  
56  Brick- 
carrying  
device  
58  Tank's  
cousin  
59  Cracker  
61  Recluse  
63  Reacts to  
ragweed  
64  Harder to  
reach  
65  Mink's kin  
66  Lamb  
creations  
DOWN  
Chancy  
undertaking  
2  TV higher·  
up  
3  Gas eater  
4  Particle  
5  Descriptive  
of some  
stocks  
6  Audition  

7 Comic verse 
8 Parliament· arian's forte 9 Piece 
10 Before 
11 Bully 
12 Whine 
13 Add zest to 
15 
23 
25 26 28 
30 32 
34 
36 
37 
38 
39 
40 42 
43 
44 
45 48 
51 52 
55 
57 
60 
62 
On the agenda "She's­it!" Prattles Meadow Glossary items Assume Regret New York player Unfounded Show of affection Marjoram's cousin Certain lock Take-home Part of many place names Newton's discovery Monticello and others Bird dog Stick together Gaffe Social conventions Medium, perhaps GOP rivals Vietnamese New Year Extinct bird 

\OBSERVER PARTY! 
at GIUSEPPE'S This Saturday! Starts at 8pm Transportation 
willbe provided 






The Observer -Sports Wednesday, April 30, 1qso -page 9 
S~-p-o-rt-s---:B~r-=-ie~£;:-s.==--=--~----;:R~ud-:Ly-:;G~le=n~n,;:-s"'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
and Roadmaster 
McMahon hurls perfect game 
Kathy McMahon pitched a perfect game while going five-for-eight at the plate to lead the Norre Dame softball team to an 11-0 win in the night cap of a doubleheader with Bethel. McMahon and Jan Crowe collected back-to-back homeruns in one Irish rally. Crowe proved to be the savior tor McMahon's gem, making a diving catch for the final our ot the game. In the opener Notre Dame took the win 13-2 behmd the pitching of Debbie Romo. Today at 4 p.m Notre Dame plays Saint Mary's College at Baine Park. 
Ruiz stripped of marathon crown 
BOSTON (AP) -The Hoston Athlet'ic Association yester­day stripped Rosie RUiz of New York of her Boston Marathon wumen 's ' ;crory. 
Race Direcror Will Cloney awarded the No. 1 spot tu \-1ontreal'' .J acqucline Gareau, who was on hand at the press conference and ac(epted Cloney' s congradulations. 
Cloney said the investigation showed "beyond a doubt" that Ruiz. a 26-year-old Manhattan office worker who says she had run In only one prior marathon, did not cover the entire 26-mile, 385-yard footrace. 
''If she did anything wrong, it was on the spur of the moment," Cloney said of Ruiz, adding, ''I'm not a doctor, nor a psychiatrist. I think she believes she ran the race." "I am proud to be rhe first," Gareau said. 
Blue-Gold game on Saturday 
The annual Blue-Gold intrasquad football game winding up Spring practice will be held in Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday, May 3 at 2:00/.m. Notre Dame and St. Mary's students will be admitte upon presentation of ID cards at gate fifteen only. General admission .tickets for the/ublic are available at the ticket sales windQw, Athletic an Con­vocation Center, priced at $2.50 for adults, $1.00 for children 17 and under. Tickets will also be available at the stadium rhe day of the game, priced at $3.50 for adults and $1.50 for children. Dates, spouses, parents, etc. must have tickets. No seats will be reserved. The game is sponsored annually by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. Joseph Valley and supports the club's scholarship fund which currently sustains sixteen students of this area at the university. 
Cheerleaders, leprechaun named 
Junior Paul Broughton and Notre Dame sophomore Denis Offer have been named co-captains of the 1980-81 Irish cheerleading squad. 
After a recent tryout, the following students were named to the squad: Hellen Cho (Notre Dame, freshman), Nancy Dawson (Notre Dame, junior), Patti Mackay (St. Mary's, sophomore), Shelly Obermiller (Notre Dame, sophomore), Eileen Quinn (St. Mary's, junior), Charles Dobson (fresh­man), Glenn Gall (senior:), Clark Gibson (freshman), Steve Pasley (juni•1r) and Dan Robertson (senior). 
Junior James "Walter" Keating was selected as the new leprechaun. 
Fuzzy -bailers back in action 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team hopes to get back on the winning track this afternoon when the Irish play host to visiting Western Michigan at 3:00 at the Courtney Tennis Center. Tom Fallon's team had its 14-match winning streak snapped Sunday in a heart-breaker with Ohio State, losing the match, 5-4. The Irish stand 15-3 this year and are shooting for their second consecutive 20-win season with five matches r~maining. Following the conclusion of the regular season the ream will begin preparations for the Eastern Collegiate championships to be held in Rochester, N.Y., May 24-26. 
Football, basketball, hockey tickets 
As stated in a recently released directive from the athletic department, Notre Dame/Saif!-t Mary's .students will be required to purchase football uckets starpng next season. The process for purchasing student tickets will be as follows: 
On May 5, 1980, a package of ticket applications 'Yill be mailed to each student's home address. Included m the package will be a four-game season applicat~on for tickets to the Purdue, Michigan, Miami (Fla.) and Atr Force footb~ll games. Cost of the package will be $24. Also in~lude~ wlil be a separate application for the Army game wh1eh wlil be played the first day of fall break. The cost of th~t single-game ticket will be $6. 
Also included will be an application f?r s.easof!-basketball and hockey tickets. The basketball ~pphca~10n w!ll cover.the home games played while school is m sesswn and the pnces will be $32 for a lower arena seat and $24 for a bleacher ticket. The hockey season ticket application will include the 15 games played while school is in session. Cost of the ticket will be $30. 
The deadline for football applications is set for ] une 20 while basketball and hockey applications must be returned by August 15. Sepa.rate checks .for eac~ application are required. Seat asstgnments wlil, as m the past, be distributed in the fall, 
long road to NASLheights 
by Gary Grassey Sports Writer 
'Ot 1ll places,·· lamented a vear-roun(, member of the North American Soccer League·s Chtcago Sting front office entourage Sunday after­noon, "In South Bend, Indtana we draw more people than we get in Comiskey,'' referring w thar aging edifice on Chicago· s southside that shares the Sting and rheir lea;,e with Wrigley Field. 
On this day. the hospitable residents of Mtchiana had turned our a force of 4,865 groupies to sit through an even billed as Symphonic Soccer '80 in, of all places, Notre Dame Stadium. To people in these parts, football and Notre Dame still meant Saturday afternoons watching men in shoulder pads and gold helmets, none of this T-shirt and short pants busi· ness. 
The match between the Sung and the Minnesota Kicks was a minor landmark of sorts. Professional soccer, in its con­tinuing quest for nationwide exposure, was making a debut in the Hoosier state. It was football un-American style and a fledgling ,business in search of a solid gold market. 
One of the characters in this little piece of history was 21-year-old Rudy Glenn of the Sting. Seven months earlier, Glenn had afpeared on the other side o ] uniper Road when Indiana University's nationally ranked soccer team took on Notre Dame at Cartier Field. Big time soccer for the Irish was just getting off the ground when Glenn and his mates cruised through South Bend last September 28th to give some credibility to Rich Hunter's blossoming program. A crowd that swelled close to the thousand mark saw Notre Dame hold the vaunted Hoosiers to a draw before Glenn followed home a re­bound in the 43rd minute of play to send LU. on its way to a 4-0 conquest. 
Now a mere rookie in the cosmopolitan realm of the N.A.S.L., Glenn recalls his first visit to South Bend. However, the thought -that comes back most vivid!y-about his davs at Indiana University remains, "We never did win it all (the national champion· ship.)" The importance of bringing life to a game at a school where athletic success has been measured in touch­downs, jump shots and Olympic swimming gold medals for so long did not weigh on Glenn's mind. 
In fact, the stocky blond yearling who grew up playing soccer in Mannheim, West Germany has found soccer itself, especially on the profes­sional level, far short of glam­orous in the eyes of Americans more accustomed to sports menus of baseball, football, and all the trimmings. NASL crowds, while continuing to improve, remain slim in most areas, except, of course, when the Cosmos road show is in town. Besides, a circuit which includes visits to such cultural bastions of the continent as Edmonton, Tulsa, and Rochester can't be all white wine and roses. 
"It's a completely different 
[continued on page Bi 
ZTOP 
Saturday May 10 

Tickets on sale at River City Records Fort Wayne Coliseum 


TOM CHAPIN/
SON SEALS BLUES BAND L'%/ayMay 2 
Vegetable Buddies, South BeD:.cl · 
tickets available at River City Records featuring

urus 

ChakaKahn
special guest The Brothers Johnson 
This Saturdav Mav 3 
Notre Dame ACC tickets available at River City Records 
-~--------------------~----­
PAT TRAVERS 
I Wednesday May 7 

Morris Civic Auditorium, South Bend tickets on sale at River City Records 



The Observer -SportsBoard Wednesday, April30, 1980 -page 10 
•"1\• 
Football -~ 
1980 NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE COLLEGE PLAYER DRAFT 
First Six Rounds 
First Round 

1. 
Detroit-Billy Sims (RB) Oklahoma, 

2. 
New York Jets (from San Francisco)­Johnny "Lam" Jones (WA) Texas, 3. Cincinnati-Anthony Munoz (OT) South­ern California, 4. Green Bay-Bruce Clark (DT) Penn State, 5. Baltimore­Curtis Dickey (RB) Texas A&M, 6. St. Louis-Curtis Greer (DE) Michigan, 7. Atlanta-Junior Miller (TE) Nebraska, 8. Nfw York Giants-Mark Haynes (RB) Colorado. 9. Minnesota-Doug Martin (DE) Washington. 10. Seattle (from Buffalo) Jacob Green (DE) Texas A&M, 


11. Kansas City-Brad Budde (OG) Southern California. 12. New Orleans­Stan Brock (OT) Colorado, 13. San ~ rancisco (from New York Jets)-Earl Cooper (RB) Rice, 14. New England­Roland James (DB) Tennessee, 15. Los Angeles (from Cleveland)-Johnnie Johnson (DB) Texas, 16 Oakland-Marc Wilson (QB) Brigham Young, 17. Buffalo (from Seattle)-Jim litcher (C) North Carolina State. 18. Washington-Art Monk (WR) Syracuse, 19. Chicago-Otis Wilson (LB) Louisville. 20. San Francisco (from Denver through New York Jets)­Jim Stuckey (DE) Clemson. 21. Miami­Don McNeal (DB) Alabama, 22. Tampa Bay-Ray Snell (OG) Wisconsin, 23. Philadelphia-Roynell Young (DB) Alcorn State. 24. Baltimore (from Dallas)­Derrick Hatchett (DB) Texas, 25. New England [from Houston]-Vagas Ferguson (RBI Notre Dame, 26. Green Bay (from San Diego)-George Cumby (LB) Oklahoma, 27. Cleveland (from Los Angeles)-Charles White (RB) Southernn California, 28. Pittsburgh-Mark Malone (QB) Arizona State. 
Second Round 

1. Buffalo (from San Franclsco)-Joe Cribbs (RB) Auburn, 2. Minnesota (from Detroit throuQh San Francisco)-Willie Teal (DB) Louisiana State, 3. Cincinnati -Kirby Criswell (LB) Kansas, 4. Baltimore-Ray Donaldson (C) Georgia, 5 St. Louis-Doug Marsh (TE) Michi­gan, 6. Green Bay-Mark Lee (DB) Washington, 7. Pittsburgh (from New York Giants)-Bob Kohrs (LB) Arizona State. 8. Atlanta-Buddy Curry (LB) North Carolina, 9 Buffalo-Gene Bradley (QB) Arkansas State, 10. Houston (from Kansas City)-Angelo Fields (OT) Michigan State, 11. San Francisco (from Minnesota)-Keena Turner (LB) Purdue, 12. New York Jets-Darrol Ray (DB) Oklahoma, 13. New Orleans~Dave Waymer [DB] Notre Dame. 14. Denver (from Cleveland)­Rulon Jones (DE) Utah State, 15. Oakland-Matt Millen (LB-DT) Penn State. 16. Seattle-Andre Hines (OT) Stanford. 17. New England-Larry McGrew (LB) Southern California, 18. Chicago-Matt Suhey (RBJ Penn State, 11J. New York Jets (from Denver)-Ralph Clayton (RBWR) Michigan. 20. Miami­Dwight Stephenson (C) Alabama, 21. Tampa Bay-Kevin House (WR) South­
ern Illinois. 22. Los Angeles (from Washington)-lrv Pankey (OT) Penn State. 23. Baltimore [from Dallas]-Tim Foley [OTJ Notre Dame. 24. Houston­Daryle Skaugstad (DT) Jackson State, 26. Cleveland (from San Diego through Los Angeles)-Cieveland Crosby (DE) Arizona, 27. Washington (from Los Angeles)-Mat Mendenhall (DE) Brigham Young. 28. Pittsburgh-John 
Goodman (DE) Oklahoma. 

May 4th and 5th at8pm 
WASJ-UNGTON HALL 

CANOE RENTAL 
A 
12 mil• , trom campus GROUP RATES TRAN3PORT ATION A V AILABIE 
/ ------------------.-~----~
~-~oat ~~e-s~ or the fas~owagiac 
Lall 01u/6Y~-2250 for reservauons 
THE SPORT CORNER 
320 N. Redbud Tr., Buchanan, Mich. 
SECOND SCENE PRODUCTION PRESENTS SCENES FROM DAVID MAMET'S play 

11A LIFE INTHE THEATRE, 
(An acting exercise) 
ADMISSION FREE 
Third Round 
:. Detroit-Tom Turnure (C) Washing­ton, 2. Los Angeles (from San Francisco) -Jewerl Thomas (RB) San Jose State. 3. Cincinnati-Rod Hor•1 (DT) Nebraska, 4. St. Louis-John Sinnott (OT) Brown, 5. Green Bay-Syd Kitson (OG) Wake Forest, 6. Detroit (from Baltimore)-­Mike Friede (WR) Indiana. 7. Atlanta­Earl Jones (DB) Norfolk State, 8. New York Giants-Myron Lapka (DT) South­ern California, 9. Kansas City-James Hadnot (RB) Texas Tech, 10. San Francisco (from Minnesota)-Jim Miller 
(P) Mississippi, 11. Buffalo-Mark Brammer (TE) Michigan State, 12. Minnesota (from New Orleans)-Brent Boyd (C) UCLA, 13. New York Jets­Lance Mehl (LB) Penn State, 14. Los Angeles (from Oklahoma)-leroy Irvin (DB-KR) Kansas, 15. Buffalo (from Seattle)-John Schmeding (OG) Boston College, 16. New England-Steve McMichael (DT) Texas, 17. Cleveland­Cliff Odom (LB) Texas-Arlington, 18. Denver-Larry Carter (DB) Kentucky, 19. Miami-Bill Barnett (DE) Nebraska, 20. Tampa Bay-Scot Brantley (LB) Florida, 
21. San Francisco (from Washington throgh Los Angeles)-Craig Puki ILB) Tennessee, 22. Dallas (from Chicago)­Bill Rose (LB) Colorado, 23. Houston­Tim Smith (WR-P) Nebraska, 24. Forfeited by Philadelphia for holding an illegal tryout, 25. Dallas-James Jon~s IRB) Mississippi State, 26. St. Louts (from San Diego)-Charles Baker (LB) New Mexico, 27. Los Angeles-Phillip Murphy (DT) South Carolina State, 2~. Pittsburgh-Ray Sydnor (TE) W1sconsm. 
Fourth Round 
1. San Francisco-Ricky Churchman (DB) Texas, 2. Detroit-Eric Hippie (QB) Utah State, 3. Cincinnati-Bill Glass (OG) Baylor. 4. Green Bay-Freddie Nixon (WR) Oklahoma, 5. Baltimore­Raymond Butler (WR) Southern Cali­fornia, 6. St. Louis-Rusty Lisch [08] Notre Dame, 7. New York Giants-Dan Pittman (WR) Wyoming, 8. Atlanta-Jim Laughlin (LB) Ohio State, 9. Minnesot~ -Dennis Johnson (LB) Southern Cali­fornia, 10. Buffalo-Ervin Parker (LB) Concordia, Minn., 12. New York Jets­Jesse Johnson (DB) Colorado, 13. New Orleans-Mike Jolly (DB) Michigan, 14. Seattle-Terry Dion (DE) Oregon, 15. San Francisco (from New England through Los Angeles)-David Hodge (LB) Houston, 16. Cleveland-Ron Crews (DE) Nevada-Las Vegas, 17. Forfeited by Oakland for "evasion of the player limit" by "stashing" an unspecified number of players. 18. Miami-Elmer Bailey (WR) Minnesota, 19. San Diego (from Tampa Bay)-Ed Luther (OB) San Jose State, 20. Tampa. Bay (from Washington)-Larry Flowers (DB) Texas Tech, 21. Chicago­Arland Thompson (OG) Baylor, 22. Denver-Rick Parras (RB) Utah State, 23. 
Atlanta (from Philadelphia)-I.M. Hipp (RB) Nebraska. 24. Dallas-Kurt Peter­son (DE) Missouri, 25. Houston--Chns Combs (TE) New Mexico, 26. Sar. Diego-Bob Gregor (DB) Washington State, 27. Cleveland (from Los Angeles) -Paul McDonald (QB) Southern Cali­
fornia, 28.  Pittsburgh-Bill Hurley (QB)  
Syracuse.  
Fifth Round  

1. Detroit-Mark Streeter (DB) Arizona, 2. San Francisco-Kenny Times (DT) Southern U, 3. Cincinnati-Brian Hicks (DB) McNeese State, 4. Kansas City (tram Baltimore)-Carlos Carson (WR) Louisiana State, 5. Kansas C1ty (from St. Louis)-Dan pensick (DT) Nebraska, 6. Cleveland (from Green Bay through Los Angeles)-Elvis Francis (DE) Morgan State, 7. Atlanta-Brad Vassar (LB) Pacific, 8. New York Giants-Tony Blount (DB) Virginia, 9. Buffalo-Jeff Pyburn (DB) Georgia, 10. Detroit (from 
Kansas City)-Tom Ginn (OG) Arkansas, 11 Minnesota-Doug Paschal (RB) North Carolina, 12. Minnesota (from New Orleans)-Paui Jones (RB) Cali­fornia, 13. New York Jets-Jim Zidd (LB) Kansas, 14. New England-Doug McDonald (DT) Virginia Tech. 15. Oakland (from Cleveland)-Kenny lewis (LB) Virginia Tech, 16. Oakland-John Adams (LB) Louisiana State, 17. Seattle Joe Steele (RB) Washington, 18. Oakland (from Tampa Bay)-William Bowens (LB) Northern Alabama, 19. Buffalo (from Washington)-Keith Lee (DB) Colorado State, 20. Chicago-Paul Tabor (C) Oklahoma, 21. Denver-Mike Harden (DB) Michigan, 22. Seattle (from Miami through Washington)-Daniel Jacobs (DE) Winston-Salem State, 23. Dallas -Gary Hogeboom (QB) Central Michi­gan, 24. Houston-John Corker (LB) Oklahoma State, 25. Philadelphia-Nate Rivers (WR) South Carolina State, 26. Denver (from San Diego through Wash­ington and Cleveland)-Laval Short (DT) Colorado, 27. Atlanta (from Los Angeles through Washington)-Kenny Johnson (DB) Mississippi State, 28. Pittsburgh­Craig Wolfley (OG) Syracuse. 
Sixth Round 
1. San Francisco-Herb Williams (DB) Southern U, 2. Detroit-Chris Dieterich (OG) North Carolina State, 3. Cincinnati JoJo Heath (DB) Pittsburgh, 4. St. Louis-Bill Acker (DT) Texas, 5. Green Bay-Karl Swanke (OG) Boston College, 
6. Baltimore-Chris Foote (C) Southern California, 7. New York Giants-Scott Brunner (QB) Delaware, 8. Atlanta­Mike Davis (DB) Colorado, 9. Kansas City-Bubba Garcia (WR) Texas-EI Paso, 
10. Minnesota-Ray Yakavonis (DE) East Stroudsburg, 11. Supplemental selection by Buffalo-Rod Stewart (RB) Kentucky, 12. New York Jets-George Visger (DL) Colorado, 13. New Orleans­lester Boyd (LB) Kentucky, 14. San Diego (from Cleveland)-Laure Harring­ton (RB) Norfolk State, 15. New York Jets (from Oakland)-Tom Schremp (DE) Wisconsin, 16. Seattle-Mark McNeal (DE) Idaho, 17. Los Angeles (from Cleveland through New England)-Mike Guman (RB) Penn State, 18. Washington -Farley Bell (LB) Cincinnati, 19. Chicago-Mike Guess (DB) Ohio State, 
20. 
Denver-Keith Bishop (OG) Baylor, 

21. 
Miami-Eugene Byrd (WR) Michi­gan State, 22. Cincinnati (from Tampa Bay)-Andrew Melontree (LB) Baylor, 


23. New England (from Houston)­Preston Brown (WR) Vanderbilt, 24. Philadelphia-Greg Murtha (OT) Minne­sota, 25. Dallas-Tim Newsome (RB) Winston-Salem State, 26. San Diego­Wayne Hamilton (LB) Alabama, 27. Kansas City (from Los Angeles)-Larry Heater (RB) Arizona, 28. Pittsburgh­lunch llkin (C) Indiana State. 
In tomorrow's edition, The Observer will run a feature on ei!ch Notre Dame player drafted. Included will be his reactions and the comments of the tea_m to which he will be going, as well as h1s chances of makin~; the team. ~he Observer also will carry each ~election irom rounds 7 through 12. 
Hockey 
Stanley Cup Semifinals Yesterday's Games 
Minnesota 6, Philadelphia 5, Minne­sota leads series 1-0 New York Islanders 4, Buffalo 1, New York leads series 1-0 
Personals cont'd ... 
Lis, Gucci, 'Guard, Wi~gles, and Curt (that's Curt with a "C ')--had a blast in Chi-town! 
Thanx, Beth 
Dear Mike, I've been sitting here for 20 
minutes and I can't think of anything 
to write. personal.  So so n anyway, ow you o here's your we me one. Margaret  
Tex:  

Happy Birthday to you, 
Happy Birthday to you, 
Happy Birthday Tim Brady, 
Happy Birthday to you! 
Happy Birthday Texina Brady! The Pfister Joe Regulars 
Solids Throat, (Alias Reptile) Where is my 6-pack? Sully 
Terry Reagan Sorry I blew you off at Irish Wake. Call me. The fat ugly girl 
Patty (RA-4) 
We have your bra. If you ever want to see it again leave you PJ's and mouse ears in a bag at the Grotto. 
Frederick of Hollywood 
Need rider to San Diego area. Call Mike 8631 
Basketball 
NBA PLAYOFFS Western Conference Championship Best of Seven Tonight's Game 
Seattle at Los Angeles (los Angeles leads series, 3-1 ). 
Baseball 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Yesterday's Games 
Texas 10, Detroit 5, 7 innings, rain Seattle 5, Minnesota 3 Toronto 3, Kansas City 1 New York 4, Baltimore 3 Milwaukee 14, Cleveland 1 Boston 11, Chicago 1 Oakland 4, California 2 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Yesterday's Games 
Houston 3, Cincinnati 0 Chicago 6, St. Louis 4 Pittsburgh 5, Montreal 4, 10 innings Los angeles 5, San Francisco 0 Philadelphia at New York, ppd., rain Atlanta at San Diego, ppd., rain 
Cross-Country 
AnTostal Road Run Winners 3-mlle Race 
Men's Division 
Greg Allen, 15:48.11 
Women's Division 
Katie Gilligan, 21:30.00 
Cripple DiVision 
John Quinn, 45:15.00 (on crutches) 
5-mile Race 
Men's Division 
Tom Burns, 26:11.88 
Women's Division 
Shannon Mara, 34:32.00 
Transactions 
BASEBALL 
TEXAS RANGERS--Named Eddie Chiles board chairman and chief execu­tive of the Texas Rangers baseball team. Named Eddie Robinson president and chief operating officer. Named Amon Carter Jr , vice president, De~ J. Kelly, 
secretary and general counsel, Wangner. treasurer.  Charles  
FOOTBALL  
NEW  YORK  JETS--Traded  Burgess  

Owens, safety, to the Oakland Raiders for a sixth round draft choice. 
MONTREAL ALOUETTES--Signed Doug Scott, defensive tackle, to a five-year contract. Signed Bruce Gair, wide receiver, to a one-year contract. 
... Item.s 
[Jontinuedfrom page 12] 
consultau to the Education Council uf the United States Olympic (;ommittee as well as being an expert on the interna­tional sports scene. His paper will stress "equality with equity'' and will advocate the development of a countercul ture in women's sports, or "a place for women and women in their place." TRIVIA ANSWER--Retired Notre Dame baseball coach Jake Kline has the most wins of any coach in Irish history. Kline posted a 552-436-5 rec­ord on the Irish sandlots from 1934 to 1975. Tennis coach Tom Fallon, who will be seek­ing his 422nd coaching win against 203 losses when his Irish ''racqueteers'' face Western Michigan this after­noon (he was 62-71 as wrestl­ing mentor before 1969), has the most wins of any active Irish coach. Fencing coach Mike DeCicco is next with a 348-34 record. 
Sp~g Football '80 
by Craig Chva/ Sports Wn'ter 
The Notre Dame squad will take Wednesday off before resuming preparations Thurs­day and Friday for Saturday's 50th Annual Blue-Gold Game in Notre Dame Stadium ... senior Mike Courey will most likely get the starung nod at quarter­back for the Green team, which will be made up of the first team offense and defense ... classmates Tim Koegel and Greg Knafelc will also see action for the Greens. 
Another close battle has devel­oped at haltback, where .sop~o-· more Phil Carter and semor J1m Stone are both enjoying excel­lent springs ... as of now, Caner rates a razor-thin edge in the dogfight to replace Vagas Fer­guson. 
Sophom.. ~ Johll ,Sween~y, who was Notre Dame s starung fullback f0r much of the 1979 season, will probably starr in the Green backfield, but he' II have a ba1 ,Je vn J1is i1ands next fall when 1-'ete Bu~hanan _e­turns from a broken ankle ... Buchanan, who was granted an extra year of eligibility aft~r missing all of last season, w1ll be a sophomore in 1980. 
1st annual WALSH SOCCER AWARDS 
Most Inspirational pep talk-Manny and Jack (take It back, guys). lronman Award-Barbara "Prima Donna" Cosgrove. Best Hands, Worst Timing Award-Barbara "Bim" Myers. The Little Blue Jug Award-Kathy "sacri­ficial lamb" Murray (cause she's such a dynamo). The Best [and only Head of the Season-Beth Sullivan. Best Performance after an all-night Formal -Kathy Dages, Ann "Traitor" Mar­get and Margie Vermillion. Best Impersonation of a Coach-Jim Sabi­tus. The High Anxiety Award-Katie "no guts, no glory" Bigane (way to go, KAYBEAS!) The Boot Award­Carrie "Golden Toe" Luepke. Best Performance by an R.A.-Mary Mer­tens. The Destroyer Award-Sue Kunkel. Best Attitude AdJustment­Mary Bergen (how do you spell BEER, Mary?) Best Camouflage Uniform-Karen "Pele" Miranda. Best Demonstration of the Kinetic Theory-Polish. Referees most easy to Bribe-Bill Murphy and Sami Kahale. The Three Stooges Award­Carolyn "Moe" Dolan, Cathy "Curly' Salzman and Ellen "Larry" Hatch. Fastest Transformation from Soccer Player to Soccer Groupie-Tim "Stop leering at me, Bim!' Nauman. The Super Sub Award-Monica "Give me one·more chance, please Jim!" Morin Cameos: Sue "Heifer" Hoeflinger, Missy Conboy, Maggie Lally, Mary O'Connor. 
Thanks to: 
Coaches Bill "the Invisible Man" Wetterer and Jim "low-KEY" Sabitus and the person responsible lor our successful season-our goalie and MVP, Nancy "Which goal are y~ ~ guys defending, anyway?" Jackson. 
Better Luck in September, WALSH! 
We regret to announce that Bart Corsaro (the North Quad's answer to 
the American Gigolo) available..... he never was!!!  is  no  longer  
JUDY JUDY Once is not enough!!!  JUDY  

Chris D 
KAYBERS­
O.C. living awaits you! Nice Room­pick-44! 
Applications for positions on SMC's STUDENT ACTIVITY PLANNING BOARD are now •vallable In the Student Activities Office In LeM1na ­SAPB deadline April 30. 
Need ride east to Cleveland or to PA. Pike May 2. Jim 277-3275. 
Thanks to all of my friends who helped me through the MCAT's especially Bernie Sue and Liz. Thanks again 
Bart 


\o, \ 
,; ..: ,:~·,·_~ '.' i ' ) I I 
.: ! ... : ~ 
'\ 
•. ..,l 
I 
j l 
I 

All ~lassified a~s must be.received by 5:00p.m. , two days prior to the tssue tn whtch the ad ts run. The Observer office will accept classif!eds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5;00 p.m. All 
classtfteds must be pre-paid. either in person or through the mail.
Classifieds 
Mary Beth Butler,
TENNIS INSTRUCTORS WANTED: 

How about some Amaretto and
Excellent high paying Summer jobs 

Cream?!? Be there Thursday night--1
(clubs, resorts, camps) available 
Personals 

promise to control myself this timet
through Wasliington Tennis Services

Notices For Rent 
for students with tennis playing or ---------------­
teaching experience. Call Mr. Applications tor positions on SMC'S STUDENT ACTIVITY PLANNING
----------------
Covyeau at (301 )654-3770 Tony, Applications for positions on SMC'S Staying for the summer? Renters Thanks for putting up with me and BOARD are now available in the STUDENT ACTIVITY PLANNING desired for 3-5 bedroom house, very Help, I desperately need a ride to the making this year a good one. Student Activities Office in LeMans ­BOARD are now available in the close to campus. If interested, call Washington, D.C. area on May 11, 12 \ Love and Hugs, SAPB deadline April 30. Student Activities Office in LeMans -Mark (8760), Don (8775). or Mr. or 13. Few belongings. Call Uze SAPB deadline April 30. Busby (287-7617) 5707(SMC) P.S. You can kidnap me again Uncle Jim, 
anytime! My mind's not worth $3.19. Keep
----------------
Available now and for next fall-­it. Just give it back
N.D. Men needed/wanted to help

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter attractive 3 Br., 2 bath home--3 or 4 SM C trash move into dorms on Desperately need graduation tickets Mindless Cheryl
Day Saints, "Are You Listening," people--near Notre Dame. Call August 23. Sign up in Student for loved ones. Pay bucks! 1803Bulla Shed. Wednesday, April 30th, Harlan Humbarger or Kathleen 
John J. Connors,
Activities Office -166 LeMans or Call

7 p.m. Movie and discussion and L.athrop--289-6813--9 a.m. to 5 p.m. C~ll41-4219 and wish Mona a Happy Will our paths ever cross again?
4-1-4319 by May 5

refreshments Btrthday. Ask about her red satin Forget about finals. and let's trip the
All Welcome 

Off campus housing, 6 bedrooms etc. sheets. light fantastic! You know where I'll
WANTED: riders to Atlanta. Leave

291-1405 be Thursday night
between 10 p.m on May 9and 8 a.m.

GUIDE YOURSELF in Lo11don, May 10. Call Lee at 1697 or 1738. Mona, Happy Birthday to the sweet­Hawaii, Mexico City!! Extensive 
Ugly Duckling Rent-a-Car from $7.95 est Palestinian in Mishawaka. Have a Hey Swell Guyt
itinerary describes what, when, how ' 
to see like anative. Only $5 each plus a day and 7 cents a mile. 255-2323 Desperately need 1graduation ticket-­great day. Fruit of the Looms, aclean sink and 
please call Kevin 288-6350 G.A.S.S. broken periodals--thanks for being a
80 cents handling. Travelsearch, Off campus housing, 6 bedrooms good domer.
Department 06, P. 0. Box 335, (with locks) rented separately. Free Kathy Reddington, Love v:,
Rider(s) needed to Tallahassee. Fla.

Hermosa Beach, California 90254. laundry and kitchen. Superior rated. Fine performance Saturday the Stripper
or points between on May 13. Must

Free brochure. Available for summer and fall. 
be able to drive standard trans and Art Jackman

291-1405. Father Kevin.
share expenses. Call Betsy at 6359

Professional Tying Service. Any size 
Applicatons for positions on SMC'S So, is it still on for Wednesday? It
job, accurate, prompt, dependable. ---------------­
STUDENT ACTIVITY PLANNING doesn't matter if you chicken out-·like
Term papers, Reports, Manuscripts. Need ride to Philadelphia, can leave
Furl']ished four bedroom house, BOARD are now available in the they say, I've won before we've
BARRON SERVICES, 1408 Elwood, couple of blocks from campus, for May 10. Call 6446 
Student Activities OOftice in LeMans begun!

South Bend~ 289-7949 next school year. 277-3604, or ---------------­
-SAPB deadline April 30
ROOMMATE NEEDED to share ex­

288-0955 
Mary,

Will do typing. Neat, accurate, call cellent 2 bedroom apartment for 
The Notre Dame Club of Grand Did you have a good time Monday
287-5162. Thank you. Work for me, live for free this summer and/or fall. 233-6068 night?
Rapids invites all students from G. R. Did ya bre< k parietals your summer, 277-3604, 288-0955 ~--------------to a "Happy Hour" in Dillon's first night at ND? Have a good
N.J. Club year-end bus is now taking Help!! I need a ride to Florida. Will basement at 8:30 p.m. on May 2nd stay--tonight will definitely be nice
reservations. Call Dave at 1148, Chris Furnished houses or roomS tor rent share driving and expenses. Steve HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! Meet 
at 1178 or Kevin at 1166 to reserve this summer. close to campus, very 1062 
Need ride East to Cleveland or to PA. ya at Lee's to catch the Lennon Buzz!! 
your seat. last day for reservations is reasonable. 277-3604, 288-0955. ----------------Pike May 2. 
Jim 277-3275.

Friday, May 2 Need ride to Louisville, Friday, May 
Are ya happy .Jules? You and yourHouse $225 mo. all included. N. 2. Share expenses. 287-3429 GRADUATES! Now's the time for cousin both got a personal in one fell
TYPING PLUS. Term papers, theses, Shore Garage. On bus. 233-1329 swoop!
that spring haircut. Men and womendissertations. Light editing, ghost welcome. Professional layer cuts,

writing. Literary search, bibliograph­Furnished 3 bedroom house close to Hi Dave; wouldn't want you feel
For Sale 

(feathered). with free blow dry styling to
ies. genealogies. Job resume service. campuus, for summer only, very only $7 and down. Close to campus. left out!
Sliding rate scale based on lead time. reasonable. Call 233-4425 Call KIM at Armando's. 277-0615.
Special discounts on full contracts for 1977 Camara, silver 28,000 miles, Satisfaction Guaranteed! STU DABAK ER 2096 IN SAN FRAN
theses and dissertations. Aardvark House or individual rooms for automatic console, small V-8 gets 
SS1~'

Automatic Solutions/P.O. Box 1204 summer rent. 4 rooms. close to 18mpg city, stereo S-track, $3,000. 
N.J. Club year-end bus is now taking

46624/phone (219)289-6753. campus, call 289-1718. 1978 LeMans, maroon, 20,000 miles, reservations. Call Dave at 1148, Chris Bob,
automatic small V-6 gets 21 mpg city, 

at 1178 or Kevin at 1166 to reserve I like you!
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE Am-Fm stereo--front and rear Passionately,
your seat. last day for reservations isAVAILABLE speakers, $3,000. Both are in 

Friday, May 2 Patty
PICK UP & DELIVERY excellent condition. Call Lewis at CALL 1234 weekdays, or 288-2961 evenings 

Mom--To all those N D hunks not yetHAMEl'S and weekends. Happy Birthday! See ya soon. "targets" of the "toner sonar": Gall 233-6200 Love, 7802 and wish Va. a happy 19th! 
Lost&Found 
RE-UPHOLSTERY & FURNITURE Spring Clearance Sale at Pandora's Roberta
Found: Shirt at beach on 4/26 after REPAIR SERVICES ALSO AVAIL­Books. All news books are 30 percent 
Happy 19th Birthday to a "swell" g< I
Raft Race. Call Sue at 2169. ABLE WHILE YOU'RE ON off and used books are Vz off list 
LIZ (WWW4) from all your "swell" friends!! 
VACATION. price or 2for 1regular used price. All How many pictures of JOHN
Lost: Vivitar camera at Irish Wake. types of paperback books available. 
DENVER DID YOU GET? Hi Mom,

The film is priceless! (REWARD) 937 South Bend Ave., Phone 233-2342 Chris S. I can't afford to call anymore, so a Call Judy 1336 personal will have to do! Got those
Why buy new when used will do ­

Nick: pictures of Jesus back and they
Super Auto -291-6770. Domestic ­

thanks for all the fun times and the turned out great--maybe even paint­Foreign -Truck happiest of birthdays to you! ing material. My church pix are good
Wanted
Lost: silver ring with blue stone Love, Steph too. I'm still taking my Vitamin C. I
Friday in Grace Hall. If ·found call For Sale: Alvarez 6 string acoustic. 
only work three nights this week, so
Michelle at 2117. Reward. Call 6369 
Dan O'Keefe, maybe I'll get to try that "swing"
N.D. Football Programs. any years, You sexy hunk of man! I think I'll trick on a night off. We're celebrat­Dear Kathleen, state prices. Bob Wiggs, 9730 E. Hand-made pottery: ceramic casser­accept your proposal--remember mak­ing John Duffy's B-Day this weekend,
Your lost Notre Dame Dinner Ring Troy, Indianapolis, Ind. 46239 ole dishes, goblets, mugs, etc. Call ing it? Seriously, we just have to get but I don't have my usual present ­
has been returned to the Lost & George 1761. 
together sometime before graduation, maybe for Graduation with Galvin's,
Found in the Ad. Bldg. WANTED: Ride to Who Concert on like the good 'ole days. Okay? eh? Say hi to Jolie,May 3. Call Bill 4641 or Bob 3128 For Sale: 1970 Chevy Biscayne. 
Space Kitten love,
Lost: Blue & White gold umbrella on Good running condition, good interior meApril 24. If found please call John at Wanted: One graduation ticket. Call must sell before araduation. $400. 
Tex Brady-­

1906. Doug a) 287-2793. Call Mike 3662 ~ 
This ·is your day to experience Joe, sneakers that float, four wheel drives It's too bad you blew it:-you should
Found: Man's watch near dorm Need ride to Wichita, Ks. after finals. '72 Audi for sale. Runs, $200 -and luge women. Happy 20th have attacked like Cindy told you to!construction site. Call Kevin 8953. Call Jim 3171. 233-6208. No hard feelings though--hope it's
Birthday! 
Love, mutual.

Found in the N.D. Post Office, a pair Wanted to buy a standard size For Sale: The Lewis Lugers and Company Kof contact lenses in awhite case. Stop acoustic guitar with nylon strings. Refrigerator $65 
P.S. Sterk--Corby's Wednesday?
in and ask for Brother Thomas. At Call 3470 Carpet 12 x 9 $60 
D.A.P. -Thanks for the needed and P.S.S. I still have acertain someone's
the Post Office. Small Table $5 long awaited talk. See you tonight. T -shirt! Shall I bring it to Corby's Ii I have hotel reservations. Trade for Easy Chair $10 M.T.B. too?
Taken: navy & powder blue down graduation tickets. Tony 233-6208 Swivel Chair $5 coat from SMC Beer Garden on 4/24. Call Mike 1814 Bob, whil;,.~-~-c:;;;;-v;;;."Hi. 
1 Please call Mark at 283-8573. Help ... 2 female college seniors need 
I like you! Harry!!

small apartment for summer. Rea­For Sale: 12 x 7 pale green, deep Passionately,Lost: Watch, woman's silver digital sonable. Write Alm/Leavitt, 402 S. shag carpet, $40; panelled bar. with Lisa To Mark Trankina,
Casio with blue face. Sat. 4/19. Henderson, Apt. 11, Bloomington, IN black glossy top, $15; green/brown/ My humblest apologies for Satur­Reward. Call Anne F. 277-1587 after white curtains, pillrws, etc. Call 8122
47406 or phone/778-4186. Diane and Tome: day night, but we're all allowed one 
10:00 p.m. or stop by 326 Walsh. Will take 
Good luck and Happiness always!! mistake, aren't we?!? I owe ya a big · I need 3 graduation tickets. Please reasonable offers. Thanks for being such great friends. one, or two, or three; Jnything! Play
LOST: Gold serpantine-link bracelet, -4262
call Irene Smiles forever. the Flying Lizards all night-I deserveTues. 4/22. Reward. Call Anne F. 
love, Marilyn it!

277-1587 after 10:00 p.m. Need ride to Boston after graduation. Share expenses, 1suitcase only. John To Tex, Position open for Treasurer onLost: a three-strand silver necklace 3588 
my pseudo birthday twin, our births Augusta Hall Council. Applications
with turquoise beads. Please call 
Tickets 

may have been celebrated miles can be handed in May 1·4, 244 Regina
Tina at 277-0586 if found--Reward. Need ride to Houston, TX or anyw­apart, but will be North.
our birthdayshere near for summer. Share usual. 

celebrated together.

Lost: suitcase--in between the base­George 3598 Mafia Godfather wants to see me Yours in lugelng P.S. To err is human. to forgive
ball field and the tennis courts. Lost graduate. If I don't get him tickets 1 
Mavra Devine. 

on Saturday afte the baseball game. Riders needed: Any point between won't graduate. HELP!! Mlck-8212 Any info call Keith 1745. here and Omaha. Leave on Sunday -Graduation Tickets Thanks Holy Cross Soccer tor a great
We're going out In style with ...

11, call Chris 4643 Kevin Paulsen season' Thanks. Duke and Brendan!'
Lost-pair of aqua contacts in white Help! I need many graduation 
Mark Stager

case. If found please call 7471. Need ride to Tampa, Fla., or vicinity tickets. Will pay $$$$. Jeff 8764 Anthony Walton 8:30-10 Kevin,
after finals. 4512 Sorry for the earlier abuse--but 
Lost: gold ring with pearl. Please Need 1 graduation ticket. Will pay 
THE RUBBER BAND 10-12 after Saturday night you deserve 
call 7947 if found Need ride to Dallas for Summer. Can $$$$. Call Mary Beth -7160 it--turn about is fair play In the leave afternoon, May 11. Call Mike, Wednesday, the 30th at the NAZZ word's of your brother Michael. 3175. Thanks "We're the party people, night and
Found: 1 pair ot keys in the fountain Help Stop A Blood Feud!!! Need outside of Hayes-Healy. Claim at Graduation Tickets! Big Bucks' Call 
Go RUBBERBAND'! See ya there! day. Livin' crazy, that's the only
Observer Office. Please!! Need ride to Dallas after Joe 1621 wav!" That goes for everyone in 10th. Jini 1331 Keenan 3-WI (Did I get it right this
Bob,

Lost: Pair of grey, wool-lined leather I need graduation tickets. Will pay a 
time?)
I like you!

gloves during An Tostal Saturday at WANTED: Riders to L.A. area after reasonable sum. Super-scalpers need • .
Passionately, ---------------­
Earth-Ball Game. Call 4579. Ask for commencement. Call Tom 8100 not call. Bob--287-2793 
Katie Marquard-­Mike You're aGOD. thanks for letting us 
WANTED: Ride to Muncie, Indiana Grampa, Class of '29, needs gradua­meet Phil.
Luann,

Lost: or Indianapolis Fri., May 2nd. Please tion ticket to see me process before he H, G. P, W & R 
Happy Birthday roomie!! It's been

Silver keychain with Arab coin. 2 call LuAnne at 1312 dies. Will pay $$$$. Tim 232-0550 
a great second semester!

keys on chain. Need keys desperate­
Love ya,

ly. Call 7195. Prof. Richardson Need riders to Columbus, Ohio--May Desperately need only one Grad. tic!! 
Marianne

1st. Call Melanie 4822(SMC) Call Paula 6240 
-----------....-------_......-----­
Wednesday, April30, 1980 -page 12 
~vorts 
----~ 
Tie Record 

Irish clobber Bethel twice 
I 
I I I 
I 
l 
i I I I 
I 
I 
I 
' I 
' 
' 
'
' 
' I 
I I I I I 
-· 
by Beth Huffman Sports Editor 

A home field advantage did not focus into the picture for Hethel College when the red­lwt Notre Dame baseball team streaked on to College Park tield yesterday, sweeping a doubleheader 14-0 and 7-5 over the Pilots. The two wins put the Irish at 24-7, tying the all-time Notre Dame win record set in 1928. 
·' lt' s just an awesome feel­ing,·' said senior Dave Bartis.h after the sweep. ''The team ts really excited now. We'~e 
~~uing to the history books thts out.'' 
Huffman comes of age, assumes leadership role 
weekend. The records are neat, but the team wants the NCAA bid. That's what we have been 
working  for  and  we  seniors  
realize  that  this  is  our  final  
shot.''  

Notre Dame pitcher Bob Bart­lett nabbed his fourth win of the season ip the opener against one loss. Bartlett hurled a near ~a'Yless game, pitching a seven mnmg shutout with 13 strike 
outs. 
"He pitched well," said Coach Tom Kelly. "He got into a little bit of trouble with walks (seven) but managed to pitch himself 
by Bn(m Beglane Sports Wn'ter 

Tim Huffman, one of only two 
•·eturning offensive linemen who will be playing for Notre Dame this Saturday in the annual Blue-Gold game, is a changed player. He has settled down. 
The 6-5, 265 pound right guard called himself a "rene­gade'' last season, not as disciplined as he should be. Put being one of two returnees t J the Irish offensive has forced 
, ~h~mge in .that philosophy.. · Ttm has tmproved a lot thts 
spring,'' said Notre Dame _of­
fensive line coach Bill Meyers. 
''he needed to work on a few 
things. He lost weight and has 
learned to control his temper. 
He has done a good job 
adjusting with those things." 
A junior from Dallas, Huffman 
is bein~ projected as one of the 
countr-y's best at his /osition 
next season. It shout be his 
third straight year as a regular 
on the offensive line. Besides 
his bulk and blocking ability, 
his experience and leadership 
will be a key to the squad next 

·year. [continued on page 8] 
1 
rish I byBillMarquard 
tems /More Quarterbacks 
DRAFT BOARD--The choice ofVagas Ferguson in the first 
rc. und and Dave Waymer and Tim Foley.in t~e se~ond round 
of :•esterday's NFL draft marked the thtrd ume 10 as ma~y 
yea.-s that at least two Irish football standouts were tapped 10 
the f:rst two rounds. In 1978 Ross Browner, Luther Bradley 
and I< er MacA fee were all first round selections, while in 
1979 Hob Golic and Dave Huffman were both picked the 
second time through the roster of pro clubs. . 
ITEM~ INTERROGATIVE--What coach has the most w1ns 
in Notre Oame athletic history? (Trivia answer appears at 
the end of tl'>e column.) Hint: it's not Knute Rockne or 
Digger Phdps. 

ADD 1 fW VI TO THE LIST--Irish fans have read and heard 
a lot about Lhe juarterback situation for next year. Will 
veterans Tim K( egel, Mike Courey or Greg Knafelc, or on.e 
of the two fre~h-nan signal callers, Scott Grooms or Bla1r 
Kcil b~ at the he'm of the Irish offense next season? Not 
many people n a.ize that there were five other players 
penciled into the -iepth chart at qu~rterback before the start 
of spring drills. Tht. unheralded hve are soon-to-be-SOJ2ho­
mores John Skronskt. Eddie Hornback and Randy Wnght 
and walk-ons Jiu O'hara and Dave Schuster. 
HOOP RECRUITS--Newly-appointed w?men.'s basket~all 
coach Mary DiSta·1islao has wasted no ume m contacting 
prospective recruit:. for the new .Iris~ basketball program: 
DiStanislao invited forw.1rd J uhe P1er and guard Debbte 
.\1arshall, both ser. iors at two-time Ohio AAA state champ 
,\kron St. Vincent St. Mary, to campus yesterday for a 
recruiting visit. 

TENNIS SHORTS--former women's basketball mentor 
Sharon Petro has been .. ppoint ~d women's tennis coach for 
next season. Petro rep'aleS )or;• Segal, who will be leaving 
after this year. 

CAMPING OUT--Broch Ires a1.d applications for Notre 
Dame's summer srorts Camp~; are now available. There will 
be two sessions o the foctball camo for high school ~oys, 
three sessions of basketball camp for boys 10 grades s1x. to 
twelve, three sessions of hoc k,..y camp for boys age ntne 
through twelfth grade, and two sessions of the a!l-spo.rts 
camp for hoys nine throl'gn sixteen The regtstratton 
information is available in the A tb letic Department offices on 
the second floor of the ACC. 
TITLE IX ADDRESS--Herb) uliano, the curator of N?tre 
Dame's International Sports and Games Research Collection, 
has accepted an invitation to present a paper to t~e 
International Congress on Women in Spo~t to ~e he.l~ tn 
Rome on July 4-8. ]uliano, whose paper 1s enutled The 
Greatest Athletic Contrc•versy of the Century,'' is a 
[continue"d on page 1 
Bartlett got plenty of help 
from his teammates' bats-the 
Irish collected 11 hits in the 
14-run blast with three home 
runs. Round trip hammers 
came from team captain Dan 
Voellinger and Banish in a 
seven-run sixth inning rally. 
Rick Chryst, a freshman from 
Plattville, Wis., J?Ounded the 
third Irish homer m the top of 
the seventh inning with one on 
and the score 12-0. Dan Szajko 
also added to the Notre Dame 
attack, collecting two singles 
and a triple in game one. 
Voellinger and Szajko's bats continued to be heard in the nightcap, as the pair each rapped home runs. John Ebert started game two and took credit for the win while senior Tim Handrich knotched the save. The Ebert-Handrich due combined to give up five runs (three earned) on four hits. 
The Irish host Bradley on Saturday with Detroit Universi­ty travelling to)ake Kline Field on Sunday. 
''This is a big weekend with two good teams,'' commented Kelly. "Bradley is a very good team from the Missouri Valley conference and Detroit is one of the top independents in the Midwest. 
Wins in the tough weekend schedule (doubleheaders are scheduled for Saturday and Sunday) could give the Irish a wave of momentum to capture a NCAA bid. 
''If we don't have the momen­tum now we never will,'' said Banish. "We are peaking now, but we can't get too excited. If we play like we have been then we should have no problem." 

A True Patriot-Notre Dame halfback Vagas Ferguson [above] was the first In'sh player chosen in yesterday's early rounds of 
. the National Football League draft. Ferguson was the 25th player chosen in the first round, going, to the New England Patriots. A complete lzsting ofthe first six rounds appears in SportsBoard on page 10. 
First roundpick 

A day in the life ofVa 
Yesterday morning, when most Notre D~me stude'lts were waiting for the class bell to nng, Vagas Ferguson was waiting for the telephone to ring. 
Nothing important -just a message from some football team telling him where ~e' d. be spending the next few years of hts ltfe. Hundreds of college football players were doing the same thing. Waiting. 
For Ferguson, the vigil was short-and well worth his time. Friend and teammate, Dave Mitchell answered the call when it came from the New England Patriots announcing that Fergu­son was to be first round pick of their club. 
"I feel good," was Fergu~on's first reacti.on. "I'm looking forward to playtng for the-Patnots and I hope I can do the job. . . 
Bein,~ drafted in the first round 1s certamly an honor. Which is an understatement, to say the least. Notre Dame coach Dan Devine is aware of the 
merit.  but  is  quick  to  point  out  the  added  
financial.  advantage  of  being  a  first-round  
selection.  

"It definitely means more money," says Devine. "Sometimes there's a difference of as much as 75,000 dollars-a-year between a first and second round pick." 
And the impact of suddenly becoming a wealthy man isn't lost on Ferguson. But he acts as ifit'snot that important to him. 
"Oh it's definitely a consideration," he concedes "but not so much for me as for my family. IfI do make any money, I want to use it to help my family. They don't have a who!~ lot of mone~. and it will be nice to do somethmg for them. 
Curiously enough, he can't think of a single indulgence for himself. 
"I don't need anything," he laughs. "I_'m gonna be very cautious with my money, wh1ch means I'm not gonna spend it on alot of foolish 

Frank LaGrotta 
thmgs. 

He will make his first visit to the Patriots' office in Foxboro, Mass. on May 11. Most likely, they will time him, give him a physical and start to talk dollars and cents. 
"I don't even have an agent yet," smiles Ferguson. "But I'm gonna get one." 
Still one gets the impression that this whole thing isn't as much of a financial windfall as it is a dream come true. 
"Oh there's no doubt that I've always wanted to give proball a shot," he says. "I'm really looking forward to playing for the Patriots and coach Ron Erhardt." 
And he's not overly concerned about the comp~tition. . 
"Hey, this is pro football," he pomts ou.t. I don't expect it to be easy. I know the Patnots have some great players at running back and I'm gonna have to really perform in order to play." A fullback freshman, Ferguson played the halfback spot for most of his Notre Dame career. He feels he can run and block with equal skill. 
"Fullback, halfback -it doesn't make any difference," he shrugs. I'll play wherever I have to." 
His new coach, Erhardt, claims Ferguson is the kind of player who, "has the ability to help any team he plays for.'' 
His old coach, Devine, calls him "the greatest back I've ever coached." 
All of which are pretty tall compliments to live up to, but Vagas Ferguson has been waiting all his life for the chance to try. 
Yester?ay's phone call should give him ample opportunity. 






